<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>

ot inane yy : aS Nhs Nok a (ie we, \e
i mG
NS ee Ms,
4 ‘ 4 1 ns ~ is \. ol i 1. 4 sevens) 3 ‘ : ; 3 s, ae Aad a He : ; , wow its Sip Nusa} a ag Daas ra ' ‘ ' eed i toy ‘ 4 7 v Whe ay eu ae et Hite a, ALAN LIP H : : ; Seater ene or Wi aiqag Pipa ion i : H . > 2 Hy ane 4) § nA Ab & 4 ‘ \ , i oe: ¥ i 2 a p et yur wa ea anti: mt 3 f = <4 ! a f ea gs aad yah a WAAR Raa j ay “the d : Pt RAE) mh AEN RY 5 45 ‘ mae a ta it Sean rahi elm at Re aes . se } , x oe, : : F ‘ AF + siete RO i Cage ailens caine eri Nats asd pa WT Petia a

<<<Page: 3>>>

IVINOSHLINS S3lYVuaI1 LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILNS
saluvyugi saiuvyug INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NYINOSHLINS S31uvYaIT_LIBRA
Z ” z Y Zi pas = ay; = = YY: = Zz a iy. = 4 Whiff, = A E ck dia a = zp = aN = >" = > = ae m7) Zz 7) Zz 77) | LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNI ul Zz eg p= a = n =n Wi = o pe ow Ys. te = m = 4 < ’ fy Js A < a S oc 4 = oc om = m—_ m _ Oo = oO -z ~I = -
i = GS ee im
ae) ° oo ° o
7 = Po = A
> = > { = >
a F ae e fa
| Oo z o z Oo IWINOSHLINS S31NVYUGIT LIBRARIES NOILNI
(op) z Ere ” z 27)
= .< Oa < = z “8 QS F é = gh, a 3 n° I \ wn o nH Ge £ : (e) O 2 bs o rE \. Zz = Zz Zy > = ay = > G
Zz 7p) $ Ze ” FA MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI_ _ LIBRA
z eo z He Zz
«WM oLx ap) mes 1p)
a or = oc =
c < c < =
— faa) pa, faa} =
ag 1S) _ Oo _ Oo
72 at 7A > =I Fe VINOSHLINS |S31YVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN, INSTITUTION | NOILM
‘ faze
Oo = oO ses 1e)
ae mM _ Lt ow oe
i= a E U7 fi 2 =
” a Creme ak 7)
S o z o z MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS Saluvugi7_ LIBRA
NVINOSHLIW A “ . Bo BN SMITHSONIAN

<<<Page: 4>>>

a = ” s a ” = if on 2 o KE 2 O a ay m~ a WS SS faa a ma ra x 4 AS. N oa a Aes = a = NN oc S = : S = O ane 5 5 7 Zz = Zz SPREE z NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYUYSGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOI zi z c z E z ae] > — ive] — Wi @ — 2 ww 5 2 5 Gly 2 5 > \ WN A — > = Vi b/ or — a AYE 2 a Ze z SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31Yvy¥ai7_LIB 2) 7a (a) = ” z ae = ee) = < = Ji: >y = =i => ¥ =a) oe — Y 4 . a 4 r 5 Kg z a) =e ig ip 9 j 2 ow t\ 2 2 a da EAOE GE: Dd a: : ze ; : ; = = NVINOSHLINS SJ3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOI. i a 2 2 2 ff D = n Y Oo cs = jog = o 5 re. o ma rs, <= YW, WS = = = sa < 3 : ee) = fof = 20] O “SS = fe) ay O = a =4) z ea) a as) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3ZIYVYE!IT LIB z ra Z (i ‘ Fa & _ Roe a im ro) es moe) PaaRe SR —_ oO = 2D E = \\ > eas ra = > = > NX BS eae > Ae Po) — Sa) . — aA FE z Z ane = z 1 z a i ae ie
NVINOSHLINS S31YVYaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN NVINOSHLIWS SMITHSONIAN be Y pas B de NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNILILSNI Saiuvudi LIB
2 a heat < .o a a ws o = a zat oc =i = = e = c = e ; 3 a = = 2
NVINOSHLINS SSJIY¥VYNSIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOI! > Fe i PA & Fe ie) = oO = 2) Ve 5 = e 2 EB \ RE za FE as & NX 12) m (dp) m (29) hae = wo = w z
Gp. 44 fly /*
INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3luvudiT_LIB
MITHSONIAN Gb VINOSHLINS

<<<Page: 5>>>

"ty : > ; _ a : 7 pre i | er, a ny : me.
* i)
ms |

<<<Page: 6>>>

BOARD OF RinG HN is
AED Ey) Ye EA TE Sie Ol:

<<<Page: 7>>>

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES, May 22, 1880.
The resolution to print extra copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution | 1879 has been agreed to by both Houses to read as follows:
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That fifteen thous five hundred copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 187)¢ printed; two thousand five hundred copies of which shall be for the use of the Seve, six thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives, and seven thound copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.
Attest:
JOHN C. BURCH, Secre’y>

<<<Page: 8>>>

| Dred Ds Be ed ke
The annual report of the Board of Regents of that Institution for the year 1879.
Marcu 10, 1880.—Ordered to be printed.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, March 10, 1880. GENTLEMEN: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to subinit to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1879. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, SPENCER F.. BAIRD, Secretary Smithsonian Institution. Hon. WM. A. WHEELER, President of the United States Senate, and
Hon. 8. J. RANDALL, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

<<<Page: 9>>>

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer. MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Institution (President of the Board of Regents). SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary (Director of the Smithsonian Institution and of the National Museum). WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board.
WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States.
HANNIBAL HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States.
NEWTON BOOTH, member of the Senate of the United States.
ROBERT E. WITHERS, member of the Senate of the United States.
HIESTER CLYMER, member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives.
JOSEPH E. JOHNSTON, member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.
PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington, D. C.
ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.
HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania.
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, citizen of Washington, D. C.
NOAH PORTER, citizen of Connecticut.
RUTHERFORD B. HAYES, President of the United States. WILLIAM A. WHEELER, Vice-President of the United States, MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief Justice of the United States. WILLIAM M. EVARTS, Secretary of State. JOHN SHERMAN, Secretary of the Treasury. ALEX. RAMSEY, Secretary of War. RICHARD W. THOMPSON, Secretary of the Navy. DAVID M. KEY, Postmaster-General. CARL SCHURZ, Secretary of the Interior. CHARLES DEVENS, Attorney-General. EDGAR M. MARBLE, Commissioner of Patents.

<<<Page: 10>>>

Secretary, Director of the Institution WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. Danret LEeEcH, Corresponding Clerk.
Assistants and Clerks.
CLARENCE B. YOUNG. Won. B. TAYLOR.
H. DrepirscH. G. H. BOEHMER.
L. STOERZER. H. DE C. DAINGERFIELD, HENRY Gass. S. G. Brown.
G. BROWN GOODE, Curator ef the Museum. F. M. ENDLICH, Assistant, Mineralogy. ROBT. RIDGWAY, Assistant, Ornitholegy. TARLETON H. BEAN, Assistant, Ichthyology. CHAS. RAU, Assistant, Archeology. * ~ EDWARD FOREMAN, Assistant, Ethnology. F. H. CUSHING, Assistant, Ethnology. CHARLES A. WHITE, Assistant Patéontelogy.
HENRY HORAN, Superintendent of Building. JOSEPH HERRON, Janitor.
W. J. GREEN, Carpenter and Electrician.
J. H. RICHARD, Artist.
A. Z. SHINDLER, 4rtist.
§. C. BROWN, Clerk, Property and Records.
KE. P. UPHAM, Clerk, Archwological Collections, JOSEPH PALMER, Taxidermist.
T. W. SMILLIE, Photographer.

<<<Page: 11>>>

1. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the year 1879, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, We.
2, Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the receipts and expenditures for the year 1879, and the estimates for 1880.
3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January, 1880.
4. General appendix, consisting of scientific papers, original and selected, of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.

<<<Page: 12>>>

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of the report .-... RES its Sich orate avis ic Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Institution to Congresses erica onisse ee care a aieleeisinGes ele'sie ie wicimacyara lehiasaaes se eis cre(esicnee a=
Regents, Executive Committee, and members ex officio of the Smithsonian InSULTON Ae cso GaSb KHEDOER DORObH HOBO Sead nGOEde Palo hOUDSO Buda rao bade good Officers and assistants of the Institution and National Museum, January, 1880-. COMMIS O TLS 12) Noises adao noo beo CoGG Gobo Dono CoodeS DOUOSS pacS coed ueEesedue ELORELOUU THE SH CHREARN,: fae. 2cic sgeta an Sato cee cn oe sees See case ImbrodMetonyjens eisai ce = he005 Seca LoDbod aged seen seesos cabSldsogcestesccs IMINO Soho Sacase GoeOSe CBbAS Bobs Hobo. coOSHb csache SeseEd bbaD Scan necccs TAO DEGUESt eos ae en sere sia coo seia is oe howcimisianc = sige ce ose cees coder e Henry; MemonialiSenyicesian dvolum eye eit ae oes stain slats tat rap salar Statueiof Protessormblentyis2 5. a2 soos cos so sia aayoc ee asia tel oan is ya serrata ois Appommbmentandrelectlonsol MeCeNtS se see es. tases = oe eieie se yar eiel= Meeting of the ‘‘ Establishment” .........-.-.....p ogsnbooses access cece 5 Researches 1 Solateclipses: bye Minn Odd semis see asceticism raise etal
AM DEHHTINUES) TOE RESUME NOV os S550 panobb boos osco Goo see a5cene
Mi abOnavory naar atse ayaa ss sions Sao hee sel ei eee ise] seca Sy sickens ° Telegraphic announcement of aatrononmcal GISCOVELIESE sce es oseetacises IL TOMO HHA ChieeoencGlinn Wee scoce ees ssecadeeqeee css cnseds ence Bublicabions other ns ilo UulO les eee eae attain ert are Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge........ .........--.----.<-Ralenquevkabletsibyy CRalas cmc occis. osc oettee nee eee Miscellaneous! C ollechionstscmccisccic co eeieteiare acts) isiiereiearseeater aeieiate \Wanlibayegs; OF demas Sim hl YSN oo56 co Sooo ceED aeeSso CouE Been SG eees 6000
History of the Institution, by W. J. Rhees..-.-.--.....-....--..Journalsiofsohe Boardvof® Revents.-5..5-.= ssce=sei-el== eee ae
Toner Lectures (seventh), by Dr. E. O. Shakespeare.--.-....-.-.--
Monograph of Chitonide, by P. P. Carpenter.................-<.
List of Zoological Genera, by S. H. Seudder------... -.-<.-.. --..Bulletinsiotthe Nationalevuseum sce creme elects nies siataeere trainee
Bulletin 15.—Contributions to the Natural History of Arctic
Je, lined ly MANS NBS SSS ess Soe sen coe daéa Sone enoUSaOnGOS Proceedings of the National Museum, Volume 1, for 1878 ..-..-..-Smithsonian;Amnual/ Report forte 7S. oases cee ca lecianele 2 ara Reports of the United States Fish Commission............------.-
J SA RRO WOOP c oc Ho50 coeeog sees eebes besone race 505 o8Ee Send eSdS NESE SeSaeS Appropriation forethnolopic researches)---. 2-252 s-2<ee------2s55<6 Order of War Department to transport articles intended for National
WINGEWIM cos phoned coon Sedese none cece cobousageseb Hae coo S660 550¢ Catlinicollechionyor indians painting see ase on eeesee os ic eeticiseientsels Casts of Indian heads..................Bele cto csi alesis as Siecepeemeaciicics aie
Page.

<<<Page: 13>>>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY—Continued.
Explorations >. 2=-sseee,-/=scias ons onic ocinie\sosisos ee gese sae seieeeeeEneers cee i WeNelsons Northwestern) Alaska. <-\-sssss1oe-seees -aeee ee ere sen aee
Ife We Atte, Aleman TI GIOK R a6 boas caso oseSce oac6 se5das ch asedsCapt. divAT beardslee, Alaska: o22 2 -secoeeceis= sae eee ee mae ociaee Captain Bailey, North Racine: 2-2 cess a= =e ee eee een eens Lieutenant DeLong, ‘“‘The Jeannette,” Arctic seas...... .-..........PLoR D> so: Jordan, Pacitic) Coast. ---0--es eee anos eer eee SaE Walker: west coast of Moridawes-o--se> oa sa bose eee eeer reer James We Milner, west.coast of, Mloridacesso------sees eases eens eee Silas) Stearns, Mexicon-ccs. sa ceee ceo seeee ees = csiee eae eee eee
Re Ride way, eastern ShorevOts Vion eens == ee eee eee A. ‘Ober: West Indies: 2.2. .2.o25-acememenees see aeeecesieme sees Prof. J. Bo isteere, Amazonehivera--4---oseeemeeteasieereee ee eere ee nee Dri. J. Hering, Surinamece = sone se eee eee ete eeer eee ener
Dr: OttoPinseh, Polynestac. (scjen.-nie-) sacmeemaecs: sae ae= sees JDK MINE So eos Gooedd sessns sencoeseaeaS Coooos osss4s0SSs55 esosee PSS Horeignuacsencies CMplOyed errs 2 nese eee a eee sles e ace ieee == aera Commission frangaise des échanges internationaux .-...----. .... ----Charge made to government DUreausr—ase-isee >=. oes) eee Pree transportation...22.csAiac-22scen caterer nee tee vee ocjeeeseeteeeeee Statistics for ten years)..222.ssec5 eee oem eee eeeces = oes eee Foreion institubionsim-correspondencere--tecen.aa-o> 22] sees eee = xchange ot government documents=-—ss--eeeaae = == -)-2 eee eee eee International exchange im lS79 255 jon emeeaaee on oat ee ee pe eee
I bl NA SaGG ROD ORSOO COON S665 SHb sooo bose odds cone cbtdasRSe Sbse co0Ses 25¢ Statementiof additionsmnS79 S22.) see ee ae eee eee ee Titles of some of the more valuable works received ...--...-----.----. WormespondenCe nese see ae eee aaa ete ee era aie ee erate Co-operation ofthe departments=::. == 2-2 -2seenee ace === <o el oee eee ces Co-operation of the Institution in the work of others........------------Communication from the Belgian Government in regard to a prize for theamprovement omharborsess ee essere ee eeeete eee oleae ee Centennial’ Commission ss-eceseeces aes ee eee aes -s)seeeeaee nee Armenian history 32-22. csi sjee oe ser sine eye ee omeeine 2 = s2. 525s bees eee Manitoba library... 22 .ce cco seslose ee oeeeete. 22 --e nee eeeieeee Zoolocical society ofondones=se. eee eee eee ee aaa Gallery Of ATG sc oi. sine ce asceiceees oecic cect ete eee ee oe cane ete eee List of articles deposited in Corcoran Art Gallery in 1879..........--.-1ejPM bb 55 So05 6odoes Seas se50 csS5 cb Sos coos ce a55 osSscS SsSsn60 5555 sco Smithsonian Institution s-<2..). 2-2-2. tos. ssseneennee ane cee 28 eee
Special donations........ BROS An Bese apace tdoorS soodnn Recep sodeco icone Mire-extineuisher::3..3..5scsdese ese cence eco eeee en os = 6 ee eee eee Herring safes. 5:2. ...5e6,-<ss seco cen lero nee eee enero e sins ede eee Yale ock Company, post-office box-_+->5+---esee eee -eee
IMG etn GS teres seein oe cnet ec ince ee cicemmmaras eae See enet 2 cules Soe Eee National:-Academy of |Sciences#....'..2. acco. -coc) heen esos coe eee Anthropological Society of Washington’. -2-ses see--oees eee se Lectures by Prof. C. 8. Hastings on astronomical physics--...--. ------
Death of employésiand collaborators <--262. ses peoeeean © ee eee eee Tobias IN. WOltZs 222 36'S con vnc cccces Sate coeelee seers hee eee eee Fielding BWetie. <2. ca.2 ss. ss 5.kh5c0 sosctecesee een see peeeeeneees Dr, James Avtiken Meigs occa w<nciends eae cece ieee einer eee ieee
Page.

<<<Page: 14>>>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY—Continued. NaNO MATL Whee ank BeSeba cdoGod baSooO SopU DODO UEGOEOS Gado ManDcoB6onG05CR
Bnd es oes ee oe eine eee aerate rae cebainis cieleie sacri atea c= Lx) OUM ES 6 a6 oS eaaG cad ob abes HOCOGUOO Coab Oud So De Gees co SbocombaecEaS ESOS ete eye he aoe Se ee ee ee ote Sic 2 Sepa eiS sieht eae Seis oeeioeis Marineimverte Drabes senses ceeineeeseiee Caen es ce cerceeie = ercaisieelaiocie SEG HS ese eee rea Se a erate eee ern othate areola inno clnleltesroietatesisiezat =
LIES. COMBO NS boy GaSb ookanSeocconsGcocus sar ececasdogsono scoososBe
News Museum: buildin one cman\sees scnaisee a) eeteeieces acter etme nai as
Uniteds states Bishi Commissionesse-soesessaseleee eer ectenisiass|nceinmalee arta /NECOTAR OF CNEENTOMNS a2 56 cogcdaq cocbad Coes Gaecod oUU SoS HocSeicsant Co-operatlonnwalhicensuseemmaeaseecerae sacle ects emcee see sealer APPENDEXe TO THne ht MPORT OR LHm SE CRE TAR NG jasersesisae) eiellolaa)aielelelelsetaiel=)— EMULE Senne COLO =DOOKS = eememeceeee ease eeeienerisaceaaiecicmecinesialaeseeiae Distnibutionionduplicate specimensanacenscceisas a emece sae alee earl ealae ANGKIHACOE UD ate) Coleone) mn key) oA so chad beocSons caounD Kago SobCboSsoe SUPT AGRO Ebel INE aoe Sees tee eon Sao p UO OSneedes ose Hoc bocmEonbaBecede IBOXESISEM ta DLOA Mel WSs Oe ae este ote ayia eater alias cleretatata late eeate al Packages received from Europe for distribution in America--.. -------
Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution anger hop Nertlona lyin se Unies pets erate aie elaretotataceere tate aveiete ate Mieeyel stata f= Honby=uTbhy Coneress, scesession wl ove— 149) cms aaa alescinsie(a ania le ariaisia= tare Forth-sixth Congress,§2d session, 187980. --ce ene coos nnn = LRIDEONUIY COP Fuso 1 Op-aoronu yao) (CON OVONMN ID) CoA eas See aS e555 5550 coocoD peoHaasade Condunonotebhe und see sees eee a eceee eae eee ee eseeee scene ataetar= Ieioveeny oS) hn, WE) no sa Go6d Scene Seo as cacanS HouaCoBDONSobeodoD aqsabaessos laegaem@bimerssp WE 25655 cabane bOneon G00 Sob Seo bbe Eno beep oR UODUES Bese ma05
ING DARING Ie Soc GoaoaD Depo e eens OnbE CO4eIResb eeSabodon6 bo5600)-Oon6es cH06 stn atest Onl SCO Becetecwcc cco ose meereeise a aasecae secession rinse cise National Museum: Appropriations by Congress ...-.--..----.------.----. Receipts andvexpenditures=--\----\sacece ieee se .
Summary eas sete sent oy oie sera ster sicie seins aie Gise 2 a= eo seyae sia Peewee SBOBO6enbe REPORT OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM BUILDING COMMISSION....-.----------REPORT OF) THE PARCHITE CTS cise. cscs aa\ssols on. so se elses iasisies| ssc ccs=e = JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS......---------.----ikea Jennienny ie, WeleWsSseoessees cogooc poa560 cabaKs anne sob0 coDDSSOUnS JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST, by WM. J. RHEES....AC SS RECA OC COOIBABE
A Study of the Savage Weapons at the Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia, lisgio> lony Loo yyw) el, OSTEO 5 Hee pace co cesneD shoo dooden coatne Badons HoUDoe JSSAWETY OO KOE Nie cant aac bac ead BeeeEOaCUCodos00GéaG abScéucccasa Gadeaces sdE5 The Preservation of Antiquities and National Monuments in Denmark,
by: Je SPAR WORSAAMMS oS iSaisecesnssemecce cis ecco ssccinnsisesisocisiels
The French Half-Breeds of the Northwest, by V. HavarD, M. D., As-
Simin Sentero, Wo Sk AL caceee cosnop sdosdéecnesesa GoqGeaGasS sbo656 Prehistoric Remains in Montana, between Fort Ellis and the Yellow-
stone River, by P. W. Norris, Superintendent of the Yellowstone
INTO TERE oon neoedeonaboKOdbGbs Hepcseeca sus obud csajensislatayeterersiate
The Shoshone or Snake Indians: their Religion, Superstitions, and Manners; by Col. AtprrT G. BRACKETT, U.S: As. <2. 2-02 /s0cc0so-

<<<Page: 15>>>

ANTHROPOLOGY —Continued. Page.
Ruins in White River Cafion, Pima County, Arizona, by R. T. Burr, M.
D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U.S. A .----..----------000.2-----333 Mounds in Winnebago County, Wisconsin, by THOMAS ARMSTRONG, of
1esh oO, LiloysvG! Glin IDAKe Chowan WAG candss soseoa ososce seer seb sesodsese 300 Mounds near Quincey, Ill., and in Wisconsin, by WILLIAM GILBERT AN-
DiMs\OT, Wit Ayo MN sosoSh cocses co sses oes oscess Snes Sosssscoesoe 341 Notes on Some of the Principal Mounds in the Des Moines Valley,
by SAMUEL B. Evans, of Ottumwa, Iowa........----------..-.----. 344
Composition of Ancient Pottery found near the Mouth of Chequest Creek, at Pittsburg, on the Des Moines River, by RoBEerRT N. and
(Cis Ue OAS) IDO TONEY SGgpce aoSS60b6S0s0 o605.0006 Sacnes cess Sassen cee 349 Prehistoric Evidences in Missouri, by G. C. BROADHEAD ..--.----.----. 350 Mounds in Muscatine County, Iowa, and Rock Island County, Illinois,
long, Ubbewansyoue (MEKONMESONT 595655 bo0qc0 cuds coc oo Se oses hous seco cass sco5 309 Antiquities of Rock Island County, Illinois, by ADOLPH T@LLNER ..-. 363 Stone Cists near Highland, Madison County, Illinois, by ARTHUR
(OBR 545404 c650R0 nSc689 050650 9005605 395505 soRSSSsUSSOF eSSssuUnNSS 366 Mounds in Pike County, Illinois, by BRAINERD MITCHELL .......----367 Mounds in the Spoon River Valley, Illinois, by W. H. ADAMS..-.---.368 Mounds in Franklin County, Indiana, by EDGAR R. Quick, of Brook-
a BUNS Ih pega asSSbascds Goan soe 55050569 SHoone Hadenp Shes Sa 55555 70 Mounds and Earthworks of Rush County, Indiana, by F. JACKMAN.... 374 Primitive Manufacture of Spear and Arrow Points along the Line of the
Savannah River, by CHARLES C. JONES, JR., of Augusta, Ga.--....376 Mica Beds in Alabama, by WILLIAM GESNER, of Birmingham, Jeffer-
Rom Omi HU cago eabanc coseed Econ oSbass tGan depo DoSsad Gaeagcasse 382 Mounds in Washington County, Mississippi, by JAMES HouGu, of Ham-
tlton;+Ohioe. 2. e250. ceccms coe es CREE Re eieiess seem some eee 383 Mounds in Moorehouse Parish, Louisiana, by BENJAMIN H. BRODNAX,
Git J eyaumensivallke, IDE no Soo cdlas coe coo cons Snodeaqsces Hass Sess ssse= 386 Wampum Belts of the Six Nations, by W. M. BrEaucHAmp, of B ara
winswvalle, (NJ Ws cocci cee om aacie cates eee eae cininis on wee arsiemn eee eine 389 Indian Relics from Schoharie, N. Y., by FRankK D. ANDREWS, of Vine-
land, ON. id ceies sasece otis Sees eee eee ones = Sse 391 Preliminary Explorations among the Indian Mounds in Southern Flor-
ida, by S. T. WALKER,of Clear Water, Florida -<-..-.--.........-. 392 Report on the Shell Heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida, by 8S. T. WALKER,
of Clear Water, Plaizccnccacece oases p meer ar ss o-h aeeren eres 413 Mounds on Gideon’s Farm, near Excelsior, Hennepin County, Minnesota,
by FRANK H. NUTTER, of West Roxbury, Mass....-....-............ 422
Summary of Correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution previous to January 1, 1880, in answer to Circular No. 316, by Oris T. MASON. = 428 Anthropological Investigations during the Year 1879, by Oris T. Mason. 449
Index to Papers on Anthropology published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1847 to 1878, by GrorGr H. BOBHMER ......--.---.-----. 476
On the Present Fundamental Principles of Physics, by Prof. Dr. FRANZ JOSEPH 1EAESNC0) 663568 SCHESHS OSG DUE OBB DEES RStnOoSis doo boebod Gonos ASoRSsSsioa soso 5a58 485
A Universal Meteorograph, designed for Detached Observatories, by E. H. VON
BAUMHAUER, Permanent Secretary of the Netherland Society of Sciences, Harlem = a= 2s Sts eeiev wees) dw otdee aly etielee eee eee oes eee ee eae 519 Reports of American Observatories, by Prof. E. S. HOLDEN.... ...-.---------. 5385

<<<Page: 16>>>

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution ;
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present herewith, the report of the operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1879:
The year just passed his been marked by a number of interesting and important incidents in the history of the Institution, which will be detailed in their proper places; the most noteworthy being the memorial services, held in the United States Capitol, in honor of Professor Henry, and the commencement of work upon the new fire-proof building for the National Museum.
The usual routine of business has been prosecuted by the Institution during the year, the various departments receiving their share of attention and expenditure.
In conformity with the action of the Board of Regents in reference to the holding of a public commemoration of Prof. Joseph Henry, a joint resolution of Congress was passed appointing January 16, 1879, as the time, and the Hall of the House of Representatives as the place, of such memorial services. These proceedings took place at the time announced, in the presence of a very large and distinguished auditory. Dr. Asa Gray was appointed by the Board of Regents to “prepare a sketch of the life, character, and public services of Professor Henry,” which it was ordered should form part of the exercises at the Capitol.
The Vice-President of the United States, supported by the Speaker of the House, presided on the occasion. After prayer by the Rev. Dr. James McCosh, president of Princeton College, addresses were delivered by Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, Senator and Regent (the address being read by Vice-President W. A. Wheeler); Hon. R. E. Withers, Senator and Regent; Prof. Asa Gray, of Harvard University, Regent; after which Hon. Hiester Clymer, Member of the House and Regent, read the telegrams received on the occasion. The remaining addresses were delivered by Prof. William B. Rogers, of Boston; Hon. James A. Garfield, Member and Regent; Hon. S. S. Cox, Member, and formerly a

<<<Page: 17>>>

Regent, and by General William T. Sherman, a Regent. The exercises were concluded with prayer by the chaplain of the Senate, Rev. Dr. Byron Sunderland.
In addition to the Senators and Members of the House assembled, the President of the United States, members of the Cabinet, justices of the Supreme Court, and other dignitaries, were present; and the proceedings were solemn and impressive, as befitted the occasion.
By joint resolution of Congress, these memorial addresses were ordered to be printed in the ‘‘ Congressional Record,” which was accordingly done on the 4th of March following. The same resolution also directed the printing of fifteen thousand copies of the said proceedings in a “*Memorial Volume,” which volume should include also “such articles as may be furnished by the Board of Regents.” <A selection has aecordingly been made by the special committee of the Regents appointed January 17, 1879 (consisting of Messrs. Gray, Parker, and Baird), embracing a few commemorative discourses delivered elsewhere, to form a concluding portion of the memorial volume. This material is now in the hands of the Publie Printer, and it is hoped will soon be published.
Among other gratifying illustrations of the respect in which the memory of Professor Henry is held by the community, we may mention the efforts made to perpetuate it by means of works of art. Reference has been made in previous reports to the life-size portrait, painted, at the request of the Board of Regents, by Mr. Le Clear, of New York; and, also, to a similar portrait as to size and general character, by Mr. Henry Ulke, of Washington. <A copy of the latter has been ordered by gentlemen in Philadelphia for the American Philosophical Society. A crayon portrait, also by Mr. Ulke, and considered an excellent likeness, has been furnished by him to Princeton College and other institutions.
Mr. Clark Mills, the well-known sculptor, has modeled a bust of Professor Henry partly from a cast taken after his death. A copy of this in plaster has been placed in the Smithsonian Institution.
Mr. C. V. Burton spent some time during the year at the Institution in modeling a small-sized bust, of which he has disposed a large number of copies.
A medallion likeness was made by Mr. Barber, the engraver of the Philadelphia mint, and a medal has been struck with this as the obverse side.
A likeness has also been engraved on steel at the Treasury Depart: ment, to accompany the Memorial Volume, an appropriation of five hundred dollars having been made by Congress for the purpose.
Another steel portrait has been engraved and published by the Messrs. Appleton, of New York, in their Annual Cyclopedia for the year 1878.
The Institution is also in possession of an oil painting of Professor Henry, painted from one or two sittings only, and presented by the artist, Mr. Ingalls. Excellent photographs have been taken of him by Gutekunst, of Philadelphia, and by Messrs. Smillie, Gardner, Brady, and Fassett, of Washington.

<<<Page: 18>>>

A statue of Professor Henry.—A few weeks ago (December 16, 1879) the Hon. Mr. Booth introduced in the Senate the following bill providing for a statue of Professor Henry in the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution :
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of twenty thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of erecting a statue of Joseph Henry on the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution.
Sec. 2. The money herein appropriated shall be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.*
By the terms of the act of Congress, the three members of the Board of Regents selected by the Speaker of the House to act in that capacity are appointed for a single Congress, or for two years; their term of service expiring on the fourth Wednesday of December, on which day, according to law, the appointment of new members is to be made.
These appointments were made by the Speaker. on the 4th of April, 1879, by renewing the terms of service of Hon. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsylvania, and Hon. J. A. Garfield, of Ohio, and by appointing Hon. Joseph E. Johnston, of Virginia, in the place of Hon. Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia. It is for the Board of Regents to say whether this apparent informality will in any way vitiate the appointments, and render it desirable that they be renewed at the present session.
The vacancy in the Senatorial Regents, caused by the expiration of the term of Hon. A. A. Sargent, was filled by the appointment, by the President of the Senate, on the 21st of March, of Hon. Newton Booth, of California.
The terms of four of the six citizens at large, namely, of Dr. John Maclean, of Princeton, Hon. Peter Parker, of Washington, Prof. Henry Coppée, of Pennsylvania, and Prof. Asa Gray, of Cambridge, having also expired, a joint resolution reappointing them, introduced in the Senate by Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, was passed, and approved by the President on the 17th of December.
*It is gratifying to be able to state here that since the date of the above, a modification of this bill (introduced into the Senate by the Hon. Justin S. Morrill, of Vermont, and into the House of Representatives by the Hon. Hiester Clymer, of Pennsylvania) passed Congress unanimously and was signed by the President on the Istof June, 1880. The act is entitled ‘‘Aw Act for the erection of a bronze statue of JoserpH HENRY, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,” and is in the following terms: ‘Be it enacted, §c., That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution be, and are hereby authorized to contract with W. W. Story, sculptor, for a statue in bronze of JosSEPH HENRY, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected upon the grounds of the said Institution; and for this purpose, and for the entire expense of the foundation and pedestal of the monument, the sum of $15,000 is hereby appropriated out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.”

<<<Page: 19>>>

In this connection I would also call the attention of the Board of Regents to the fact that the law of Congress, in establishing six years as the term of service of the six Regents elected as citizens at large, provides, at the same time, that two vacancies shall occur at the beginning of each new Congress and be filled by election. I am unable to say in what manner there happened to be four vacancies at a time; but in this, as in the case previously mentioned, it is for the Board of Regents to determine what action, if any, shall be taken in the premises.
The act of Congress organizing the Smithsonian Institution provides for an annual meeting of the establishment, although there is no special business to be prosecuted by that body, with the exception of a general inspection of the condition of the Institution. The meetings, although proposed by the Secretary, have, by the direction of the President, mostly been omitted. The following table shows the number of meetings held since the commencement of active operations by the Institution :
August 1, 1849. June 6, 1853. July 15, 1854. May © 3, 1853. May 2, 1854. June 4, 1873. May 17, 1853. June 6, 1854. May 5, 1877.
The usual notice of a meeting on the 6th of May, 1879, was made to the President; but, in the absence of any special necessity, it was, by his authority, indefinitely postponed.
In the report of the Executive Committee will be found a detailed statement of the finances of the Institution, which are believed to be in better condition than at any previous time, all arrearages having been paid and a larger balance than usual being on hand.
The following is a statement of the condition of the Smithsonian fund at the beginning of the year 1880:
The amount originally received as the bequest of James
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of
Ameust 10. 1846 oo. 5-33 eee et ester. eater $515, 169 00 The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, deposited
in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with
the act of Congress of February 8, 1867..........--.... 26, 210 63
Total bequest’of Smithson’ sce se oe chews lee 541, 379 63 Amount derived from savings of income and increase in value of investments, and deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as authorized by act of Congress of
WCDTUATY SAMO Tin 2 < wiatoe = 6 a= yo)-'n cee ete 108, 620 37 Amount of bequest of James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa.,
Bebruary 24, USTs. cee SA be nt ee ee 1, 000 00

<<<Page: 20>>>

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable
ROMM MMMM Alby aor Teser as a ais oy > Satan oe! we era ate hay $651, 000 00 In addition to the above, there are Virginia bonds and cer-
tificates, viz, consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred cer-
tificates, $29,375.07 ; fractional certificate, $50.13; total,
$88,125.20, valued January, 1880, at........-. .....--. 32, 000 00 Cash balance deposited in the Treasury of the United
States at the beginning of tlie year 1880, for current ex-
penses’.....--. ....-sobe dd SorceG esc ose eecedcoececne 20, 894 06
Total Smithson fund January 2, 1880 ............. $703, 894 06 The receipts in 1879, were $62,004.08, and the expenditures $41,110.02, leaving a balance on hand of $20,894.06.
Previous reports of the Institution contain allusions to the explorations and researches of Dr. Simeon Habel. This gentleman was of Austrian birth; graduated in 1846 at the Vienna University, and for several years had been the resident-physician in charge of a public hospital. In consequence of his liberal views, he was obliged to leave Europe and seek a home in America. His love of nature and the desire to advance science led him to undertake an extended tour through Central and South America. Before doing this, however, he spent several months at the Smithsonian Institution, in making himself familiar, under the direction of Professor Egleston, then in charge of the Geological Department, with the most important species of minerals and rocks. Subsequently, during seven years, he made collections in natural history and observations in meteorology, geography, geology, and archeology.
Among the regions of South America to which Dr. Habel devoted special attention were those of the guano deposits of Peru and of the remarkable group known as the Galapagos Islands. Of the peculiar bird fauna of these islands, Dr. Habel made large collections, which were fully described by Messrs. Sclater and Salvin in the proceedings of the Zoological Society of London.
Returning to New York about the year 1877, he devoted himself to the elaboration of his researches and, in time, prepared for the Institution, a memoir entitled “The Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumal whuapa, with an account of travels in Central America and on the Northwestern coast of South America.” This work was published by the Institution in 1878, and contains a brief account of Dr. Habel’s ethnological and archeological researches, and a minute descripticn of a group of sculptures discovered by him at Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa, a small town in Guatemala. The variety of ornamentation, the skill in execution, and the grade of refinement exhibited in the designs upon these bas-reliefs, as well as the almost total absence of sculptures hitherto re-

<<<Page: 21>>>

ported on the southern side of the Sierras, induced the Institution, on the recommendation of Profs. W. D. Whitney and J. H. Trumbull, to include Dr. Habel’s paper among its publications.
The author was invited to visit Washington, where a room was provided for him at the Institution, and the drawings of these sculptures were reproduced by an artist, under his personal supervision. Dr. Habel highly appreciated the aid thus rendered him, and informed Professor Henry of his intention to leave a part of his estate to the Institution, to repay, at least in part, the cost of the’publication of his memoir.
The Institution having learned of the death of Dr. Habel on the 1st of January, 1879, steps were taken to secure the legacy which he had promised as indicated in the following letter, deposited by him in the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank, New York:
“Davip LEDWITH, Esq., ‘* Comptroller of the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank :
“ DEAR Sir: I have left with the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank, for safe-keeping, three account-books in my name, with the order that the money deposited in the bank on each respective book should be paid after my death to the following persons and institution, namely :
‘1. One thousand dollars of the account on book No. 122426 to Ernest Haeckel, of Jena, in Germany, and the remainder of said account to the Smithsonian Institution at Washington.
‘¢2. All the amount in my favor on book No. 125437 should be paid to Stephen Pearl Andrews.
“3. The money in trust for Lizzie Fleischman on book No. 125436 should be paid to said person.
“* Requesting the bank will comply with said order,
“J am, respectfully, yours, ‘DR. HABEL.”
Mr. Ledwith, the comptroller of the bank, on the 26th of February, 1879, presented a statement to the Institution of the amount to the credit of Dr. Habel on the account-book No. 122426, above referred to, showing a balance of $1,402.59. Of this $1,000 was paid to Professor Haeckel in accordance with the instructions of Dr. Habel, and the remainder, $402.59, paid to the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
It is proper to state that every facility was rendered by the officers of the bank in turning over to the Institution the bequest of Dr. Habel.
As it is the policy of the Institution to fund all moneys that may be received other than as income, I would suggest that the amount received from Dr. Habel be increased from the income of the Institution to $500, and that this sum be added to the Smithson fund as the Habel bequest. It will be remembered that, by a law of Congress, the Institution is authorized to increase its principal in the United States Treasury to a million dollars. In a somewhat similar case, that of Mr. James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., the amount of $1,000 was deposited in the Treasury as the Hamilton fund.

<<<Page: 22>>>

In the last report an account was given of an investigation of the ancient solar eclipses by Mr. Todd, of the Nautical Almanac Office. Among a number of eclipses added to the list then given are three observed in China in 709 B. C., 601 B. C., and 549 LB. C., being the eclipses which have formed the subject of a paper by Schjellerup, of Copenhegen. During the past year the work of this investigation has consisted mainly in the collection of data and their preparation for discussion. As the research progresses, there seems reason for extending the scope of the research to include a large number of ancient ecliptic dates.
Apparatus for Testing Stone.—Many years ago a series of experiments were conducted at the Smithsonian Institution, under the direction of Professor Henry, in regard to the strength and durability of building mnaterials, primarily for the purpose of determining what varieties of marble and other stones were best adapted for the construction of the extension of the United States Capitol. The apparatus used in these experiments has since been lying idle in the Smithsonian building, and as it occupied valuable space it has been returned to the arsenal, from which it was originally borrowed. It has there been put in order, and is how again in use by the Ordnance Bureau of the Army.
As stated in the last report, after a partial suspension of active operations in that direction, the laboratory of the Institution was put in order, and again made available for scientific research. This has always. been an important feature in the operations of the Institution, and is one of those especially required by the act of Congress.
A thorough overhauling of the old instruments, and equipment was _ made under the direction of Dr. Endlich, the chemist in charge, and all obsolete apparatus and unserviceable material was eliminated. The chemical and physical departments of the colleges in the District, such as the Columbian, Georgetown, and Howard University, were invited to select from this unserviceable matter what they could use for purposes of instruction, the remainder being suitably disposed of. The apartments were then altered to meet the requirements of the present day, and a sufficient amount of apparatus and equipment obtained to make a fairly efficient working establishment.
The work of the laboratory consists partly in determining the character of various minerals belonging to collections in the National Museum, and partly in carrying on researches asked for by the various departments of the government. No private work of this kind is undertaken by the Institution; but whenever a chemical investigation of any subject is required by the proper authorities it is carried out, if the time of the chemist will permit.
Under the first head, the identification of large numbers of specimens, previously undetermined, has been completed, the series placed in the
S. Mis. 54-——2

<<<Page: 23>>>

mineralogical department, and the duplicates made up into sets for distribution to various educational establishments throughout the country, or to be held for exchange for other minerals. Turther reference to this subject, however, will be found under the head of the National Museum.
Among the investigations carried on by the Institution for the benefit of the government may be mentioned the following:
An examination of the character and chemical composition of the Appolinaris water, at the request of the Secretary of the Treasury, a controversy having arisen between the custom-house authorities in New York and the importers of Appolinaris water, as to whether the article imported under that name really came unchanged from the springs or was artificially charged with other substances, especially carbonic acid. To solve this problem the services of several chemists were invoked, but these furnished contradictory results, and the Smithsonian Institution was therefore asked by the Treasury Department to give the subject proper attention, specimens of the water being duly supplied. This was among the most laborious researches ever intrusted to the Institution for prosecution, requiring the constant labor of the chemist for several weeks for its accomplishment. A report was finally made and transmitted to the Secretary.
Another investigation was as to the comparative percentages of carbon in different brands of steel, made at the request of Chief Engineer Shock, of the Bureau of Steam Engineering of the Navy Department.
In addition to the chemical work actually performed in its laboratory for the government, the Institution has also acted as adviser to the departments in securing specialists for investigations too extensive for the time and apparatus of its chemist, or which, for other reasons, could not be undertaken by him. Among these may be mentioned an examination of crude opium, for the amount of morphine it contained, made for the Treasury Department by Dr. Theodore G. Wormley, of the University of Pennsylvania, and by Dr. W. M. Mew, U.S. A., of Washington, We.
The attention of the inspector of marine products for the city of Washington having been attracted by the occurrence of green oysters among those offered for sale, the health department, under Dr. Smith Townshend, requested of the Smithsonian Institution an investigation as to the cause of this color, the popular impression being that it was due to the presence of copper in the water, and denoted a poisonous condition of the oysters. Although this phenomenon is quite well known im Hurope, and green oysters are considered in France an especial delicacy, the examination desired was made by Dr. Endlich with very perfect tests and without detecting any copper. In this connection it may be stated that recent investigations in Europe have shown that the green color is due to the presence of minute alge on which the oyster feeds voraciously. In France the oysters are kept in pits along the seashore, where the highly-prized tinge is very soon acquired.
By a resolution of Congress the Secretary of the Institution was ap

<<<Page: 24>>>

pointed a member of a commission to investigate the merits of signal apparatus to give warning of the accidental occurrence of fire, and during 1879 Mr. Watkins made experiments in the laboratory of the Institution to test his invention for this purpose.
In this connection it may be stated that the Secretary of the Institution has, by resolution of Congress, been appointed a member of the commission on improving the ventilation of the hall of the House of Representatives at the Capitol, and that he has attended the meetings of this commission and rendered it such service as his time and opportunity permitted bim.
There are many astronomical discoveries, which, for the purpose of co-operative observation, require immediate announcement to observers in distant localities. Among such discoveries are those of planets and comets, or of bodies which are generally so faint as not to be seen except through the telescope, and which being in motion require that their place in the heavens be made known to the distant observer before they so far change their position as not to be readily found. For this purpose the ordinary mail conveyance requiring at least ten days, is too slow, since in that time the body will have so far changed its position as not to be found, except with great difficulty; and this change will become the greater if the body is a very faint one, for in that case it could only be discovered on a night free from moonlight, which of necessity, in ten or twelve days, must be followed by nights on which the sky is iJuminated by the moon, and all attempts to discover the object would have to be postponed until the recurrence of a dark night. Indeed, even then the search would often prove in vain; and it would not be, in some cases, until after a set of approximate elements had been calculated and transmitted, that the astronomers on the two sides of the Atlantic would be able fully to co-operate with each other.
These difficulties were discussed by some of the principal astronomers of America and Europe, and an application was made to the Smithsonian Institution, through Dr. C. H. F. Peters, of Clinton, N. Y., to remove them by transmitting intelligence immediately through the Atlantic telegraph cable. For this purpose the Institution, in 1873, applied to the New York, Newtoundland and London Telegraph Company and to the Western Union Telegraph Company to be allowed free transmission of this kind of intelligence, and received through Cyrus W. Field, esq., and William Orton, esq., with that liberality which has always attended applications of a similar character by the Institution, the free use of all the lines of these companies for the object in question.
Similar privileges were granted in Europe for transmitting the intelligence between some of the principal centers of astronomical research in Europe and the eastern ends of the Atlantic cables.
The transmission of intelligence is not restricted to the discovery of planets and comets, but includes that of any remarkable solar phenomenon which may suddenly present itself in Kurope, and of which obser

<<<Page: 25>>>

vation in America may be practicable for several hours after the sun has set to the European observer; also the sudden outburst of a star like that in the “Crown” in 1866, together with unexpected showers of shooting stars, &c.
To carry out the proposition the following arrangements have been adopted, which are essentially those published in 1873, but with such additions and modifications as subsequent experience has proved necessary.
I.—Center of communication in the United States. 1. THe SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Spencer F. Baird, director. Centers of communication in Europe.
1. GREENWICH OBSERVATORY. Sir George Bb. Airy, astronomerroyal.
2. PARIS OBSERVATORY. Admiral Mouchez, director.
3. BERLIN OBSERVATORY. Prof. W. Foerster, director.
4, VIENNA OBSERVATORY, Academy of Sciences. Prof. Edmund Weiss, director.
5. PULKOVA OBSERVATORY. Otto von Struve, director.
IIl.—Telegrams received at the Smithsonian Institution from observers in the United States will be forwarded immediately by Atlantic cable to Greenwich, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and Pulkova, and thence by telegraph to other observatories in Europe.
Jil.—Discoveries made in Europe of new comets, planets, &e., will be announced without delay from Greenwich, Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and Pulkova, by Atlantic cable, to the Smithsonian Institution, and thence by telegraph to American observatories * and the Associated Press.
IV.—The telegraphic dispatch announcing a discovery should be as brief as possible, and, after conference with astronomers, the following form has been agreed upon:
After the single word “planet” (or “ comet”), is given—
1. Its right ascension in time, hours, minutes, and seconds (the latter only to the nearest round tenth, ¢.e., ten, twenty, thirty, forty, or fifty); next, separated by the word—
2. North or south, is given its—
3. Declination, to the nearest minute.
4, Then, in the case of a planet, the magnitude expressed by the nearest ordinal number.
* The list of these observatories is at present as follows:
Shattuck Observatory .-...-..-Hanover, N.H. | United States Naval ObservaObservatory of Harvard College.Cambridge, Mass. UN 5c6 Bob ook oRcPesaeecuorc Washington, D.C. Yale College Observatory. ---.-New Haven,Conn, Cincinnati Observatory .--.-..-.-Cincinnati, Ohio. Dudiey Observatory .-...-.--.-.Albany, N. Y. Dearborn University ObservaLitchfield Observatory..---..--Clinton, N. Y. WIS, saodshescoaceceshasssoodas Chicago, Tl. Hobart College Observatory ....Geneva, N. Y. Ann Arbor Observatory ..-.--.-Ann Arbor, Mich. Red House Observatory. ..-.---Phelps, N. Y. University of State of Missouri..Columbia, Mo. Warner Observatory .---.-.-.... Rochester, N.Y. | Morrison Observatory -.-----..-Glasgow, Mo. Allegheny Observatory ...-..---Allegheny, Pa. | Observatory of Carleton College . Northfield, Minn. Observatory of College of New
JGYTENy Sebsaeceonsoeedseaos aoc Princeton, N.J.

<<<Page: 26>>>

In the case of a comet, the word bright or faint should be added.
5. Next, the daily motion, as near as the first observations allow it to be estimated.
For a minor planet in opposition, the motion in right ascension is approximately evident, and it is therefore sufficient to indicate the motion in declination, in minutes of are, preceded by the word north or south.
For a comet, the direction of motion should be indicated by south, west, north, east, or by a combination of two of these words, which must be understood always (also below the pole) in reference to the equator, not in reference to the horizon. If the comet has a rapid motion, the number of degrees per day, as estimated, may follow.
6. Finally, the date of the position (having regard to Art. V) indicated by the day of the week.
The day of sending (civil reckoning, of course) is always written at the head of the dispatch by the telegraph operator (the United States law requires also the hour), and it may be presumed that the communications only exceptionally fail to reach the center stations (Art. I), even those on the other side of the Atlantic, on the same day. In order, however, to be independent of any delay of the operator, and agreeably to the wishes expressed by high astronomical authority, the date is now embodied in the dispatch by naming the week day, whereby at the same time all ambiguity is removed as to whether astronomical or civil date be meant.
7. Should it be deemed desirable to communicate the authority for the discovery, the shortest way would be to insert the name as the second word in the dispatch (after “ planet” or ‘‘comet”). For example, the following dispatch, “‘ Planet N. N. twenty-three thirty-five forty north twenty-one forty-six eleventh south three Wednesday,” would be interpreted thus: A new planet is discovered by N. N. At midnight (see Art. V) between Wednesday and Thursday it will be in right ascension 25 35™ 408, and declination +21° 46’; it is of the 11th magnitude, and has a daily motion of 3’ towards the south.
Or a dispatch like the following, ‘Comet N. N. twenty-two fortythree ten north sixty-five thirty-one bright southeast two Monday,” would announce the discovery made by N. N. of a bright comet, that at midnight Monday—Tuesday will be in right ascension 22" 43™ 108 and declination + 65° 31’, the declination decreasing, the right ascension increasing, moving daily about two degrees.
The preceding examples contain the greatest number of words (16) required for any dispatch, if composed according to the rules adopted above. Usually the number will be less. Sometimes, however, the dispatch thus composed would become equivocal, and it has, therefore, been established as an additional rule that the number expressing the minutes of right ascension or declination shall always be expressed in words, even when zero occurs. Therefore 23" 0™ 408 should be written “twenty three nought forty,” while “ twenty three forty” will be under

<<<Page: 27>>>

stood to mean 205 3™ 408, Again, “north thirty six” would be +280° 6’, but “north thirty six nought” is +36° 0’. In a similar way 0" of right ascension, or 0° of declination are to be distinctly expressed by the word “ nought.” Only for the seconds of right ascension when they are zero, that word for brevity’s sake is omitted as unnecessary.
V.—The right ascension and declination in the dispatch will be understood to give the position (by proper motion approximately reduced) for THE MIDNIGHT FOLLOWING the date of the dispatch: Washington time for American discoveries ; Greenwich time for European.
Usually the discoverer himself has more complete data on hand than others for bringing the position up in advance, and for this reason the following midnight is given preference to any preceding time, as, for example, that of the discovery.
ViI.—Since in conformity with the preceding article, only an approximate estimate of a later position, and not that of the first observation itself, is given, the dispatch is not to be considered as a document for deciding the question of priority of discovery.
On the other hand, it is expected that observers, in communicating their discoveries, will adhere to the form of the programme explained in the foregoing articles, and thus save much time and labor to those that wish to co-operate.
List of minor planets discovered in the year 1879.
No. Name. Date. Discoverer. 7 aan Observatory. r’s No. 192 | Nausikaa-....--. ebriaryal7|ealisaeeseseee 15theeese Pola. 193 | Ambrosia. ...--. February 28 | Coggia ......Si ly Sees Marseilles. 194 | Procne ..-.....---| March Qe) Hhetersyae eee ads ence Clinton. 195 | Eurycleia ...-.-.. April Oy SP alisarcces see tG6thee =. Pola. 196 | Philomela ..--.. | May 14) \ebetersis-eeeoe Sethe =--Clinton. LOMPIPAT ELC sosce ~~ May 21h; Palisayseee o220 AGEs. 2 — Pola. 198 | Ampella.:.....June 13)) Borrellyasese=bhi Marseilles, 199 | Byblis _.......| July 9 | Peters....--| 35th._..Clinton. 200 | Dynamene ...-| July 27 || (Peters=s has. se 36th. ....| Clinton. 201) Penelope,s2.--.| August @, |) Palisajscsteeo-)) teth.-s | Pola. O02 eChryseis---s----| September | U | Peters'ceece---|"o7boe..-Clinton. 203°) Pompeia. -----.September 25 | Peters.. ---.-.| 38th Clinton. POAMMCaAlLIStOle see. == October 8) |sRalisae epesess|lobh = Pola. DU DM eee cece sce sles | October 13 | Palisa ...--..200ue eee Pola. 206 | Hersilia.... -.-.| October | 13 | Peters\.-.-:--| 39th-...Clinton. Wig ee omsces cece cscs ~ October W/>|Palisae=so--CUSb eens Pola. DNB eases Set October 21! Palisa .....--. Ogi es. Pola. ROO) DIDO... cecse5October. 22.| Peters .=..:...| 40th-~..Clinton. P| aso e eee eee | November 12 | Palisa.----.. Pod eeaas|| Olas Po ES as 5 ee eee ere December 10 | Palisa -22---.Ath? =... Pola. LIST OF COMETS DISCOVERED IN 1879.
A ..| Brorson’s Comet.
Periodie2= 22. |\\Pebruary (26 |. 255 see eee eee a ce Windsor, N. S. W. B .-| Comet 1867. II.
Periodic 2 see April 24 | Tempeleee ss solesoesa=<: Florence. Ces 1879> TL. se June 153) Wewis Swikteslesseeco-= Rochester, N. Y. ree O 79: wh Vie ee August 24.) (antwith. Sos ees oe eee 10)-..)) 1lcy AD eas se August SL, | Palisa seecacee| seme sere st Pola.

<<<Page: 28>>>

The publications of the Institution consist of three classes: The first, the “Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge”; the second, the “‘Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections”; and the third, the “Annual Reports of the Regents” of the Institution. The works of the first class, the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, are published in quarto form, and are intended to embrace original memoirs, either the result of special investigations authorized and directed by the Institution, or prosecuted under other auspices and presented to it. The works of the second class, the Miscellaneous Collections, are similar in plan and construction to the “ Contributions,” but are in octavo form, and embrace more particularly monographic and descriptive papers in natural history, formal or systematic lists of species of animals or plants, physical tables, reports on the present state of knowledge in some department of physieal or biologic science, &c. As with the “ Contributions,” each volume is composed of several distinct and independent papers, having no neeessary connection with each other, the combination being determined chiefly by the aggregate number of pages suitable for a volume of average size. The average number of pages in the quarto volume is about 600; in the octavo volume, about 800. Each paper or memoir in either class is separately paged and indexed, with its own title-page, so as to be complete in itself, and separately distributed according to its subject. Of the quarto “ Contributions,” twenty-one volumes, and of the octavo ‘‘ Collections,” fifteen volumes have been published.
The Smithsonian annual reports, commenced in 1847, being made to Congress, are published by that authority, and not at the expense of the Smithson fund. The earlier reports of the Secretary were printed in small pamphlet editions, but were collected and reprinted with the report for 1853, and with this the series of bound volumes may be said to have begun. The number, or edition, ordered by Congress has varied from year to year, but the proportion of copies placed at the disposal of the Institution has been distributed to its correspondents as fully and liberally as possible.
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge—The Institution has now enough material ready for two volumes of the quarto series of Contributions, the twenty-second volume of which will be issued early in the year 1880, and will consist of the following memoirs:
1. Antiquities in Tennessee. Joseph Jones.
2. Sculptures of Santa Lucia. S. Habel.
3. Archaclogical Collections of the National Museum. Charles Rau. 4. The Palenque Trblet. Charles Rau.
5. Remains of Man in the Aleutian Islands. W. H. Dall.
These papers have all been described in previous reports with the exception of the one on the Palenque tablet, by Charles Rau. This

<<<Page: 29>>>

publication relates to a stone tablet covered with glyphic designs which was formerly in the possession of the National Institute for tie Promotion of Science (established at Washington about forty years ago) and became afterward the property of the Smithsonian Institution. The records state that the fragments constituting this tablet were presented. to the National Institute by Mr. Charles Russell, consul of the United States at Laguna, island of Carmen, Mexico. They had been obtained at Palenque in a manner not explained, and arrived in Washington in 1842, and were deposited in the Patent Office with the collections of the National Institute. The transfer of these collections to the Smithsonian Institution took place in 1858.
The archeological importance of this tablet was first pointed out in 1863 by Dr. George A. Matile. While engaged in making a cast of it, at the request of the late Professor Henry, he recognized it as one of tie three stone slabs which, placed together, bore on their surface the sculpture of the famous group of the cross, forming the chief ornament of one of the temples at Palenque. The earliest explorers of the ancient city, Del Rio and Dupaix, still saw the Smithsonian tablet in its proper place in the “Temple of the Cross,” and figured it, though in a very defective manner, as a part of the group; but it probably was already broken in 1832, when Waldeck explored the ruins of Palenque. Stephens, who was there eight years afterward, noticed its scattered pieces. As a Gonsequence, neither of the last-named explorers has left a representation of this valuable complement of the celebrated sculpture.
Impressed with the importance of the subject, the author undertook to prepare this monograph, which is not merely confined to a description of the tablet but embraces also a number of cognate topics. Of the two accompanying plates, which were specially executed for the work, one represents the Smithsonian tablet in juxtaposition with Catherwood’s well-known delineation of the Tablet of the Cross in Volume II of Stephens’s “Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yucatan”; the other is an artotype showing the Smithsonian tablet as it appears after its restoration. Most of the illustrations in the text were kindly lent by Mr. H. H. Bancroft, of San Francisco; the others were expressly engraved for the publication.
The work comprises five chapters, to which an appendix is added.
In the first chapter the author gives the history of the Smithsonian tablet as far as he could trace it by an examination of the existing records. ‘The second chapter treats in chronological order of the expeditions undertaken for the purpose of exploring the ruins of Palenque, and of the works and minor publications resulting from these explorations. It is a curious circumstance that the existence of the ancient city remained unknown until the second half of the eighteenth century, when accident led to the discovery of these remarkable ruins, hidden for centuries in the shadows of a Guatemalan forest. Cortez, on his

<<<Page: 30>>>

famous expedition to Honduras (in 1524), doubtless passed at no great distance from the locality now called Palenque, and if it had been an inhabited city at that time the daring conquistador probably would have turned aside from his march for the purpose of conquering and plundering it. Moreover, no mention of the city is made in the Spanish records of that period, and it may be assumed that it was deserted and in a ruinous condition at the time of the conquest.’
The principal explorations of Palenque were undertaken by Del Rio, Dupaix, Waldeck, and Stephens, between the years 1787 and 1839, thus extending over a period of more than half a century; but while the reports of the three first named explorers remained unpublished for many years, Mr. Stephens’s account appeared in print within a year or two after his visit to the ruins, which thus became known to a large body of readers, both in this country and abroad.
In the third chapter the author describes, according to the accounts of the different explorers, the Temple of the Cross and the celebrated bas relief from which it derives its name. These accounts, though not absolutely harmonious, coincide in the main points and give a pretty good idea of the edifice and its appurtenances.
The fourth chapter is devoted to a consideration of the Group of the Cross, including the Smithsonian tablet. It will be seen that the earlier representations of this interesting piece of ancient American sculpture are incorrect and fanciful, more particularly with regard to the design and arrangements of the glyphs surrounding the cross, and the human figures standing at its sides. In speaking of the significance of the bas-relief, the author combats the theory that the adoration of the cross among the aborigines of certain parts of America was due to the influence of Christian missionaries, said to have gone to the New World long before its discovery in the fifteenth century. He adduces facts showing that the cross had a symbolic meaning in America in times long antedating the Columbian era.
The fifth chapter treats of aboriginal writing in Mexico, Yucatan, and Central America. The Mexicans, it is well known, had already made some steps toward phonetization, being able, as Humboldt says, ‘to write names by writing some signs which recalled sounds.” The Yucatecs and Central Americans, however, used signs of a different character, denominated calculiform by M. Aubin, the distinguished French savant. The question of their significance has been revived of late years by Brasseur de Bourbourg’s discovery and publication of Bishop Landa’s manuscript of the sixteenth century, which had lain for many years unnoticed in the archives of the Royal Academy of History at Madrid. The celebrity of the bishop’s work is chiefly due to the circumstance that it contains delineations of what he calls the alphabetic signs of the Yucatees. The discovery of this supposed key was hailed with great enthusiasm by scholars interested in the decipherment of the glyphs sculptured on the walls of ancient edifices in Central America and Yucatan, and of the few

<<<Page: 31>>>

manuscripts in similar characters which have escaped the destructive fanaticism of Spanish priests, namely, the Dresden Codex, the Codex Peresianus and the Codex Troano, yet the results have thus far not justified the high expectations at first entertained.
The author endeavors to show, by an analytical process, the affinity between Bishop Landa’s characters and the glyphs on the Palenquean tablets, to which he consequently ascribes a Maya origin. He thinks it probable that the Yucatecs employed in their writing certain characters as equivalents for sounds, perhaps syllabic and at the same time, possibly to a great extent, conventional figures imparting a definite meaning. On the other hand, he strongly doubts whether the Mayas and kindred tribes ever went so far as to express the elementary signs of their speech by corresponding signs; in short, whether they possessed a written language in the modern sense. He hardly believes that the meaning of Central American and Yueatec glyphs will ever be revealed through Landa’s key, which, if it really was what the bishop claims, would apply to the Maya as spoken at the time of the conquest, but, owing to the mutability of languages, not to the earlier kindred vernaeular of the builders of Palenque and other now ruined cities of the same regions.
The appendix relates to the ruins of Yucatan and Central America and forms a complement to the chief topics of the publication.
The twenty-third volume of Contributions will probably contain :
. Lucernarie. H. J. Clark.
Geology of Louisiana. KE. W. Hilgard.
. Internal Structure of the Earth. J. G. Barnard.
. Monograph of the Trochilide. D. G. Elliot.
. Fever, a Study in Morbid and Normal Physiology. H.C. Wood, jr.
Miscellaneous Collections.—Several volumes of Miscellaneous Collections will be published in a few months, the articles composing them having already been printed and stereotyped.
Volume XVI of this series will contain:
1. Monograph of Strepomatide. G. W. Tryon.
2. Catalogue of Diptera. R. Osten-Sacken.
3. Toner lecture: Nature of Reparatory Inflammation in Arteries after Ligature. E.O. Shakespeare.
4, Circular relative to Smithsonian Literary and Scientifie Exchanges.
5. Circular relative to Business Arrangements of the Smithsonian Institution.
6. List of Humming Birds. D. G. Elliot.
7. List of the Principal Libraries in the United States.
8. Check-list of Smithsonian Publications to July, 1879.

<<<Page: 32>>>

Volume XVII of the Miscellaneous Collections will consist of—
1. Documents relative to the Origin and History of the Smithsonian Institution. W. J. Rhees.
Volume XVIII of the Miscellaneous Collections will be composed of—
1. The Scientific Writings of James Smithson.
2. An Account of James Smithson and his Bequest. W. J. Rhees.
3. Journals of the Board of Regents, reports of committees, statistics, &e., from 1846 to 1877.
Volume XIX of Miscellaneous Collections will consist of—
1. Proceedings of the National Museum for 1878. 2. Proceedings of the National Museum for 1879.
Writings of James Smithson.—The scientific writings of James Smithson, the distinguished founder of the Smithsonian Institution, have been collected and are published in accordance with the instructions of the Board of Regents. These memoirs were originally contributed to the “ Transactions of the Royal Society of London,” of which Smithson was a member between the years 1791 and 1817, and to Thomson’s ‘Annals of Philosophy,” between 1819 and 1825. They are twentyseven in number and embrace a wide range of subjects, from the origin of the earth, the nature of the colors of vegetables and insects, the analyses of minerals and chemicals, to an improved method of constructing lamps, and of making coffee. Some of these papers were translated into French by the author and others, and published in the “Journal de Physique, de Chimie, et @ Histoire Naturelle” They prove conclusively the scientific character of Smithson and his title to distinction as a contributor to knowledge.
Among the personal effects of the founder of the Institution were several hundred manuscripts, besides a large collection of scraps and notes on a great diversity of subjects, including history, the arts, language, rural economy, construction of buildings, &e., which, unfortunately, were destroyed by the fire in the Smithsonian building in 1865. It is probable that Smithson also contributed articles to scientifie and literary journals other than those mentioned, but none have been found, though the leading English periodicals of the day have been carefully examined.
Appended to the writings of Smithson are reviews of their scientific character, by Prof. Walter Rk. Johnson, communicated to the National Institute of Washington in 1844, and by J. R. McD. Irby prepared for the Institution in September, 1878. The material for this work has been collected and the volume edited by Win. J. Rhees, chief clerk of the Institution.
History of the Institution.—The work mentioned in the last report relative to the origin and history of the Institution, as ordered by the Board of Regents, has been completed under the efficient editorship of

<<<Page: 33>>>

Mr. William J. Rhees, chief clerk of the Institution, and has been published. This history forms an octavo volume of 1,027 pages. It contains the will of Smithson, a republication of all the debates and legislation of Congress relative to the bequest, the correspondence and official papers of Mr. Rush, the agent of the United States in procuring the legacy, the history of the investment of the fund, the opinions of learned men as to the best disposition of the bequest, and many other documents of value in connection with the history of the establishment. The work has a full index.
Journals of the Board of Regents.—Another volume of the history of the Institution has been compiled by Mr. Rhees, containing the journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents from its first meeting, September 12, 1846, to January 26, 1876, together with the reports of the executive, building, and special committees for the same period. The eulogies on deceased members of the Board and distinguished collaborators of the Institution are given, and also a full account of the Bache scientifie fund, the Tyndall trust, Corcoran Gallery of Art, Toner lectures, Hamilton bequest, the report of the committee of the board on the invention of the electro-magnetic telegraph, the report of the examination of Professor Henry by the English scientific commission, statistical tables, and valuable information relative to the history and operations of the Institution. .
Toner lectures.—The seventh Toner lecture has been published by the Institution, and is a concise and interesting presentation of “ The nature of reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature, compressure and torsion,” by Dr. Edward O. Shakespeare, of Philadelphia, delivered in Washington, June 27, 1878. The bleeding of wounds afresh has formed a favorite theme of study from time immemorial; its nature and the most efficient means for its arrest have drawn to it the attention of physicians in all ages. Dr. Shakespeare gives an epitome of the successive efforts made by skilled hands to stay the subsequent bleeding of wounds and amputations, from the first recorded authority, Jean Louis Petit, in 173132, to date; this valuable summary is followed by one of the prevalent opinions in regard to the question, and he then sketches,in minute, succinet detail, his own personal observations. This concluding chapter is illustrated by four carefully prepared plates.
Monograph of Chitonide.—Reference has been made in previous reports toa monograph of the Chitonide prepared by Dr. Philip P. Carpenter, of Montreal, with a view to publication by the Institution.
At Dr. Carpenter’s death, this manuscript, in a still unfinished condition, was discovered to consist largely of notes and memoranda, written in a peculiar and antiquated short-hand, with which no one in this country was familiar. The skeleton of classification was almost completed, but the details in regard to particular species were often deficient or

<<<Page: 34>>>

existed only in the form of these short-hand notes. As the usefulness of the work and especially its completeness depended largely on the comprehension of these notes, search was made, for a long time unsuccessfully, for some one able to decipher them. At last an old classmate and personal friend of Dr. Carpenter, Mv. R. D. Darbishire, of Manchester, England, undertook the task, with the assistance of the Rev. W. H. Herford. To the knowledge of the short-hand possessed by Mr. Darbishire (one of the few living persons who can read it) and to his generous willingness to devote his time to the wearisome duty for the benefit of science and out of regard for Dr. Carpenter’s memory we are very greatly indebted and owe the translation of the above-mentioned notes. Mr. Darbishire declined any remuneration for his services, and the labor bestowed by Mr. Herford was quite beyond the value of any honorarium which the Institution was able to make him. The thanks of the Institution and of men of science generally are therefore due to these gentlemen. The illustrations for the monograph, which are quite numerous, are yet to be engraved, though they have already been beautifully drawn by Mr. Emerton, under Dr. Carpenter’s direction, at the cost of the Institution. This and a not inconsiderable amount of editing, which has been intrusted to Mr. W. H. Dall, remain to be accomplished before the monograph will be ready for publication, a task which cannot be wholly completed under a year or two.
List of zoological genera.—Among the works offered to the Smithsonian Institution for publication is a list of the zoological genera, giving the time of publication and the class of the animal kingdom referred to. Such works, if properly executed, are of great value to the investigator, since, although imposing an immense labor upon the compiler, they enable the student to at once determine points of synonymy and priority of date; also whether a name proposed for a new genus has already been used, thus sparing an enormous aggregate of individual effort. This work, by Mr. Samuel H. Scudder, of Cambridge, will probably be completed and published in the course of the year 1880.
Bulletins of the National Museum.—In the Secretary’s Report for 1875 it was stated that another series of publications, which would form a part of the Miscellaneous Collections, had been commenced under the above title. This series is intended to illustrate the collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to the United States, and constituting the stock of the National Museum, of which the Smithsonian Institution is the custodian. These bulletins, prepared at the request and mainly by the attachés of the Institution, have been printed under the authority of the Secretary of the Interior. They form an independent series, which has proved very acceptable to naturalists, as enabling them to obtain prompt information as to the additions to and the components of the National Museum.
The following is a list of the titles and contents of the bulletins already published:

<<<Page: 35>>>

Bulletin 1.—Check-List of North American Batrachia and Reptilia ; with a Systematic List of the higher groups, and an essay on geographical distribution based on the specimens contained in the United States National Museum. By Edward D. Cope. 1875. 8vo., 104 pp.
Bulletin 2.—Contributions to the Natural History of eneiolen Island, made in connection with the American Transit of Venus Fepediaen 1874~75. By J. H. Kidder, M. D., Passed Assistant Surgeon, United States Navy. I. Ornithology. Edited by Dr. Elliott Coues, United States Army. 1876. 8vo., 51 pp.
Bulletin 3.—Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island, made in connection with the American Transit of Venus Bx pedinon,
1874-75. By J. H. Kidder,
OoLtocy.—By J. H. Kidder and Elliott Coues. BOTANY: A. Phenogamia, Filices, et Lycopodiacer. Revised by Asa Gray. B. Musci. By Thomas P. James. C. Lichenes. By Edward Tuckerman. Alge. By W. G. Farlow. CrozET FLORA:
M. D., Passed Assistant Surgeon, United States Navy. II. 1876. 8vo., 12 pp.
The contents are as follows:
Fisu. By Theodore N. Gill.
Mo.uusks. By W. H. Dall.
INSECTS: Diptera. By C. R. Osten-Sacken. Pseudo-Neuroptera. By H. A. Hagen. Crustaceans. By 8. I. Smith. Annelids, Echinoderms, and Anthozoa.
By A. E. Verrill.
Surgeon E. Kershner’s Collection.
A Stupy OF CH1onIs Minor. By J. H.
GroLtocy. By F. M. Endlich. Mammats. By J. H. Kidder.
Kidder and Elliott Coues.
Bulletin 4.—Birds of Southwestern Mexico. Collected by Francis E. Sumichrast for the United States National Museum. Prepared by George N. Lawrence. 1875. 8vo., 56 pp.
Bulletin 5.—Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas. Based chiefly upon the collections of the United States National Museum. By G. Brown Goode, M. A., Curator United States National Museum. 1876. 8vo., 82 pp.
Bulletin 6.—Classification of the Collection to illustrate the animal resources of the United States. A list of the substances derived from the animal kingdom, with synopsis of the useful and injurious animals, and a Classification of the methods of capture and utilization. By G. Brown Goode. 1876. 8vo., 126 pp.
Bulletin 7.—Contributions to the Natural History of the Hawaiian and Fanning Islands and Lower California, made in connection with the United States North Pacific Surveying Expedition, 1873-75. By Thomas H. Streets, M. D., Passed Assistant Surgeon, United States Navy. 1877. 8vo., 172 pp. The subjects treated of are:
ORNITHOLOGY. HERPETOLOGY. ICHTHYOLOGY: J. Fishes of Upper and Lower Catifornia,
II. Fishes of the Hawaiian Islands. Ill. Fishes of the Fanning Islands, IV. Fishes of the Samoan Islands.
CRUSTACEA, Borany.
Bulletin 8.—Index to the Names which have been applied to the Subdivisions of the Class Brachiopoda, excluding the Rudistes, previous to

<<<Page: 36>>>

the year 1877. By W. H. Dall, United States Coast Survey. 1877. 8vo., 88 pp.
Bulletin 9.—Contributions to North American Ichthyology, based primarily on the Collections of the United National Museum. I. Review of Rafinesque’s Memoirs on North American Fishes. By David 8S. Jordan. 1877. 8vo., 53 pp.
Bulletin 10.—Contributions to North American Ichthyology, based primarily on the Collections of the United States National Museum. II. A.— Notes on Cottide, Etheostomiatide, Percide, Centrarchide, Aphredodevide, Dorosomatide, and Cyprinide, with Revisions of the Genera and Descriptions of New or Little Known Species. B.—Synopsis of the Siluride of the Fresh Waters of North America. By David S. Jordan. 1877. Svo., 120 pp.
Bulletin 11.—Bibliography of the Fishes of the Pacific United States. By Theodore N. Gill. (In Press.)
Bulletin 12.—Contributions to North American Ichthyology. III. A. —On the Distribution of the Fishes of the Alleghany Region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with Descriptions of new or litile known species. By David 8S. Jordan and Alembert W. Brayton. B.— A Synopsis of the Family Catostomide. By David S. Jordan. 1878. Svo., 237 pp.
Bulletin 13.—Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands. By Baron Her A] Begers, 21379. Svo:5,139 pp.
Bulletin 14.—Catalogue of Collection illustrating the animal resources and the Fisheries of the United States. Prepared under the direction of G. Brown Goode. 1879. 8vo., 351 pp.
Bulletin 15.—Contributions to the Natural History of Arctic America, made in connection with the Howgate Polar Expedition, 1877~’78. By Ludwig Kunlien, Naturalist of the Expedition. 1879. 8vo., 179 pp.
ETHNOLOGY, MAMMALS, AND Birps. By | INSEcTs:
Ludwig Kumlen. Hymenoptera, Nocturnal Lepidoptera, Fisurs. By Tarleton H. Bean. Diptera, Coleoptera, Neuroptera, and ANNELIDES, MOLLUSCOIDS, AND RADIArachnida. By 8S. H. Seudder and
ATES. By A. Ih. Verrill. others.
Mo.uusks. By W. H. Dall. PuLants. By Asa Gray. INSECTS: Licurns. By Edward Tuckerman.
Diurnal Lepidoptera. By W. H. Ed-| ALGa. By W. G. Farlow. wards. |
Bulletin 16.—Synopsis of the Fishes of the United States. By David S. Jordan. (In Press.)
The fifteenth number of the Bulletin of the National Museum is wholly made up of the interesting and novel notes of Mr. Ludwig Kumnlien, who, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, in 1877~78, accompanied the Howgate polar expedition as naturalist. He passed the long arctic winter of 1877~78 in the little harbor of Annanactook, Cumberland Gulf, latitude 67° north, longitude 68° 50’ west. This sound, gulf, or inlet of Cumberland extends from about latitude 65° north to latitude

<<<Page: 37>>>

67°+ north. It is the “Cumberland Straits” of Baffin, who was its original discoverer at the end of the sixteenth century; again rediscovered by Captain Penny in 1839, who named it Hogarth Sound; and still again it was visited by Captain Wareham in 1841, who, unconscious of his predecessors, hamed it once more anew as Northumberland Inlet. It has become latterly a frequented place of resort for Scotch and American whalemen, whose ships frequently winter on the southwest shores of its boundaries.
Here Mr. Kumlien passed seven or eight months in close intercourse with the Eskimo, and neglected no opportunity for study of this people. His detailed account of the curious habits and mental characteristics of the Innuit is one of the most complete and finished descriptions ever given of them; clear, succinct, and comprehensive, it is a valuable ethnological pen picture.
Mr. Kumlien paid attention to the various subdivisions of naturat history, and made as full notes as possible, under the circumstances, upon the mammals, birds, and fishes of the region. His limited means for action, his scant accommodations on the little schooner, and the forced, hasty departure from winter quarters gave no opportunity for exhaustive collections of any kind whatever; but the insects, the plants, the mollusks, and the alge secured have been carefully examined by experts in these branches, and reported on in this bulletin, thus rendering it a most valuable contribution to our knowledge of cireumpolar life.
Proceedings of the National Musewm.—It had frequently been suggested as desirable that the National Museum should have some medium of prompt publication for announcing descriptions of specimens received (many of which are new species), as well as presenting other interesting facts relative to natural history, &c., as furnished by the correspondents of the institution. The publication of the ‘ Proceedings of the National Museum” was accordingly commenced, the work comprising short descriptions of the additions to the museum, accounts of new species, faunal, and other lists, &c. It is printed in successive signatures, as fast as copy sufficient for sixteen pages is prepared, each signature having printed at the bottom of its first page the date of actual issue, for deciding questions as to priority of publication. It is at once distributed to scientific societies and leading naturalists in this country and in Europe. The list of important articles of greater or less length already printed, and forming the volume for 1878, is as follows:
By Tarleton H. Bean. Deseription of a new sparoid fish from Savannah bank; on the occurrence of Sticheus punctatus, at Saint Michaels, Alaska; on the identity of Euchalarodus putnami, Gill, with Pleuronectes glaber (Storer) Gill, with notes on the habits of the species; description of a species of Lycodes from Alaska, believed to be undescribed. :
By L. Belding. A partial list ot the birds of Central California.
By Caleb Cook. The manufacture of porpoise oil.

<<<Page: 38>>>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oo
By W.H. Dall. Descriptions of new forms of mollusks from Alaska, contained in the collections of the National Museum; Post-pliocene fossils in the coast range of California; fossil mollusks from later Tertiaries of California; note on shells from Costa Rica, Kitchenmidden, collected by Drs. Flint and Bransford; distribution of Californian Tertiary fossils; descriptions of new species of shells from California in the collections of the National Museum; report on the limpets and chitons of the Alaskan and Arctic region, with descriptions of genera and species believed to be new.
By Vinal N. Edwards. On the occurrence of the oceanic bonito in Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts.
By Theodore Gill. Synopsis of the pediculate fishes of the eastern coast of extratropical North America; note on the Antennariide ; on the proper specific name of the common pelagic antennariid Pierophryne ; note on the Ceratiide ; note on the Maltheide.
By G. Brown Goode. The Clupea tyrannus of Latrobe. The oceurrence of Belone latimanus in Buzzard’s Bay, Massachusetts; the voices of crustaceans; a revision of the American species of the genus Drevoortia, with a description of a new species from the Gulf of Mexico; the occurrence of Hippocampus antiquorum or an allied form on Saint George’s banks; the occurrence of the Canada porcupine in West Virginia; on two fishes from the Bermudas, mistakenly described as new by Dr. Giinther.
By G. Brown Goode and Tarleton H. Bean. The Craig flounder of Europe on the coast of North America; the oceanic bonito on the coast of the United States; description of Caulolatilus microps, a new species of fish from the gulf coast of Florida; on a new serranoid fish from the
3ermudas and Florida; descriptions of two new species of fishes from
the coast of Florida; a note upon the black grouper of the southern coast; descriptions of two gadoid fishes from the deep-sea fauna of the Northwestern Atlantic; description of Argentina syrtensium, a new deep-sea fish from Sable Island bank; the identity of Jéhinonemus caudacuta, Gill, with Gadus cimbrius, Linn. ; note on Platessa ferruginea, D. H. Storer, and Platessa rostrata, H. R. Storer; on the identity of Brosmius americanus, Gill, with Brosmius brosme, White.
By J. B.S. Jackson. Arsenic acid for protecting anatomical preparations from insects.
By Lieut. J. P. Jefferson. On the mortality of fishes in the Gulf of Mexico in 1878.
By Lieut. J. P. Jefferson, Dr. Joseph Y. Porter, and Thomas Moore On the destruction of fish in the vicinity of the Tortugas during the months of September and October, 1878.
By David 8. Jordan. Notes on a collection of fishes from Clackamas River, Oregon.
By David S. Jordan and Charles H. Gilbert. Notes on the fishes of Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina.
By George N. Lawrence. Catalogue of the birds of Dominica, from
S. Mis. 54-——3

<<<Page: 39>>>

collections made for the Smithsonian Institution by Frederick A. Ober, together with his notes and observations; catalogue. of the birds of St. Vincent, from collections made by Mr. Fred. A. Ober, under the directions of the Smithsonian Institution, with his notes thereon ; catalogue of the birds of Antigua and Barbuda, from collections eats for the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. Fred. A. Ober, with his observations; catalogue of the birds of Grenada, from a collection made by Mr. Fred. A. Ober for the Smithsonian Institution, including others seen by him, but not obtained; catalogue of the birds collected in Martinique by Mr. Fred. A. Ober for the Smithsonian Institution ; catalogue of a collection of birds obtained in Guadeloupe for the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. Fred. A. Ober; a general catalogue of the birds noted from the islands of the Lesser Antilles, visited by Mr. Fred. A. Ober, with a table showing their distribution and those found in the United States.
By Prof. N. T. Lupton. On the breeding habits of the sea catfish.
By Dr. James C. Merrill. Notes on the ornithology of Southern Texas, being a list of birds observed in the vicinity of Fort Brown, Tex., from February, 1876, to June, 1878.
By Felipe Poey. Notes on the American species of the genus Cybium.
By Captain R. H. Pratt. Catalogue of casts taken by Clark Mills,
esq., of the heads of sixty-four Indian prisoners, of various Western tribes and held at Fort Marion, Saint Augustine, Fla., in charge of Capt. R. H. Pratt.
By Robert Ridgway. On a new humming-bird (Afthis ellioti) from Guatemala; a review of the American species of the genus Scops Savigny; descriptions of several new species and geographical races of birds contained in the collection of the United States National Museum; description of two new species of birds from Costa Rica, and notes on other rare species from that country; descriptions of new species and races of American birds, including a synopsis of.the genus Tyrannus.
By Silas Stearns. A note on the gulf menhaden.
By Dr. Franz Steindachner. Note on Perca flavescens.
By Samuel Wilmot. Notes on the Western gizzard shad.
The above collection constitutes Vol. I of the Proceedings of the United States National Museum, comprising 524 pages, octavo, and embellished with 8 plates and 10 wood-cuts.
Chief among these interesting papers is the digest of Mr. F. A. Ober’s researches in the Lesser Antilles, as given by Mr. Geo. N. Lawrence. The labors of Mr. Ober were principally devoted during two years to ornithological observation and collection on the island of Dominica, which is about midway in the group known as the Lesser Antilles, being in latitude 15° 20 to 15° 45’, north; longitude 61° 13/ to 61° 30/ west. The island is mountainous, possessing a range of high peaks and hills from two to three thousand feet in height. It is only in these mountainous sections that land birds of any moment are found, for, in

<<<Page: 40>>>

fact, along the coast and in the low valleys very few species other than ordinary sparrows, humming-birds, &e., can be obtained. Owing to the bold, precipitous character of the island coast and the absence of small outlying islands or detached rocky islets, Mr. Ober found that only a few sea birds were resident.
As far as known, the most significant result of Mr. Ober’s collection and investigation of the avifauna of the Lesser Antilles is embodied in the statement that each one of these several little islands constituting that group has one or more species peculiar to itself alone.
Mr. W. H. Dall has contributed several papers to the Proceedings, describing new forms of mollusks, both recent and belonging to the Tertiary formation, nearly all of which are from the western coast of the United States, several being particularly interesting. One of these ferms was brought up on a sounding. line by Capt. Geo. E. Belknap, of the U.58.5. Tuscarora, on his celebrated sounding expedition from Japan to California via the Aleutian Islands, in 1874. This mollusk, a species of Chiton, came from a depth of 6,066 feet below the surface, a much greater depth than that in which any other species of the genus has yet been known to exist. Many of the other shells and fossils described were due to the exertions of Mr. Henry Hemphill, of California, whose ability as a collector stands unrivalled, and who kindly presented those objects, which he believed to be new, to the National Museum.
Small but interesting collections of shells from “ Kitchen Middens,” on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, were also identified by Mr. Dall. These species, collected by Drs. Flint and Bransford, are still found living in adjacent waters, and are now used for food by the natives.
Mr. Dall also contributed a paper on the Limpets and Chitons of the Alaskan region, with descriptions of genera and species believed to be new. This was illustrated by five plates, representing chiefly the teeth of these animals, worked out by microscopical investigations of his own. Some forty-two forms were figured, only three or four having previously been known. The paper contains a review of the general classification of the Chitonida, based on the researches of P. P. Carpenter and the author, together with a summary of the known facts in regard to the anatomy and development of these animals, some of which are here stated for the first time. A number of genera and subgenera, proposed by Dr. Carpenter in his unpublished monograph of the Chitonide, together with others heretofore only partially characterized, are here fully described for the first time.
Mr. R. Ridgway has contributed the following:
(1) On a new humming-bird (Atthis ellioti) from Guatemala (pp. 8-10).— Certain constant differences, previously overlooked by authors, between specimens of Atthis heloisw (Less. & Delattr.) from Mexico and the birds from Guatemala referred to that species are pointed out and illustrated by outline figures. The Guatemalan bird is characterized as a new species, and named in honor of Mr. Daniel Giraud Elliot, the well known ornithologist, and a special authority on this family of birds.

<<<Page: 41>>>

(2) A review of the American species of the genus Scops Savigny (pp. 84117).—This article is an elaborate monograph of the American Scops owls (species allied to the common sereech-owl of the United States), embracing the full synonymy and descriptions of the known species, two of which, S. brasilianus cassini, from HKastern Mexico, and S. cooperi, from Costa Rica, are new to science. The owls of this genus have been particularly perplexing to ornithologists on account of remarkable variations of plumage, some species being “dichromatic,” while all vary to an unusual degree, according to locality, the amount of individual variation also being extraordinary. The present paper is an attempt, based upon ample material contained chiefly in the National Museum, to clear away the confusion which has hitherto existed in regard to the relationships and nomenclature of certain forms.
(3) Notes on the ornithology of Southern Texas, being a list of birds observed in the vicinity of Fort Brown, Texas, from February, 1876, to June, 1878. By James C. Merrill, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army (pp. 118173).—The critical remarks and synonymy relating to the species noticed in this article were prepared by Mr. Ridgway, although in several instances, through an oversight of his own, his initials do not appear in connection with his portion of the work. The species thus treated by Mr. Ridgway, are: Thryomanes bewicki leucogaster (p. 121), Vireosylvia flavo-viridis (p. 125), Molothrus eneus (pp. 130-131), Sturnella magna neglecta (p. 134), Myiarchus erythrocereus cooperi (pp. 138-141), Nyctidromus albicollis (pp. 142-145), Amazilia fuscicaudata (pp. 147-148), A. yucatanensis (pp. 148-149), Buteo albicaudatus (pp. 154-156), dichmoptila albifrons (p. 158), and Parra gymnostoma (pp. 166-168). Mr. Ridgway is also responsible for the nomenclature adopted in the catalogue.
(4) Descriptions of several new species and geographical races of birds contained in the collection of the United States National Museum (pp. 247252).—The new forms described in this article are the following: Ihodinocichla rosea schistacea, from Mazatlan, Western Mexico; Hmbernagra rufivirgata crassirostris, from Eastern Mexico, and the /. r. verticalis, from Yucatan ; Lowigilla violacea bahamensis, from the Bahamas; and Anas aberti, from Mazatlan. A description is appended (p. 253) of the adult female of Anas wyvilliana, Sclater, a recently discovered Sandwich Island duck, the female of which was previously unknown.
(5) Description of two new species of birds from Costa Rica, and notes on other rare species from that country (pp. 252-255).—The new species here described are Thryophilus zeledoni and Pseudocolaptes lacrencii. The others noticed are the very rare Carpodectes nitidus, the young male of which is here for the first time described, and the “ Zonotrichia”, vulecani, of Boueard, which is referred to the genus Junco, as the most southern form of that genus, of which the common snowbird (J. hyemalis) is the representative in Eastern North America. The Costa Rican bird inhabits the almost alpine summit of the voleano of Irazu.
(6) A partial list of the birds of Central California. By L. Belding, of ,

<<<Page: 42>>>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ot
Stockton. Edited by R. Ridgway (pp. 388-449). Mr. Ridgway is to be credited merely with the editing of this paper and the nomenclature adopted. The list is the most complete catalogue extant of Central Californian birds, being based upon the observations of Mr. Belding, made during a residence of about twenty years in the State, and includes 22 species, which, with very few exceptions, are represented in the collection of the National Museum by specimens (upwards of 600 in number) sent by Mr. Belding.
(7) Descriptions of new species and races of American birds, including a synopsis of the genus Tyrannus, Cuvier (pp. 466-486).—The new species here described are Tyrannus luggeri, from Demerara and Cayenne; LTichenops perspicillatus andinus, from Western South America (Chili to Colombia); Dacnis pulcherrima aureinucha, from Ecuador; Parus rufescens neglectus, from the coast of California.
Smithsonian Annual Report.—The report of the Institution for the year 1878 was presented to Congress on the 8th of February, 1879, and 10,590 copies were ordered to be printed, 1,000 being for the use of the Senate, 3,000 for that of the House of Representatives, and 6,500 for the Smithsonian Institution.
For almost the first time in the history of the Institution, this report has failed to make its appearance, and to be distributed before the close of the following year. Under ordinary circumstances it should have been printed by the Ist of July, but the year has come to an end, and not more than half the number of pages have been set up. This is due to the fact that the extra session of Congress held in March last found . the Public Printer without any special appropriation to meet the cost of printing; and instead of going on with the work ordered at the previous session, he was obliged to postpone it. Work was, however, resumed upon the report late in the autumn, and it will probably be finished in the course of a few months. It is earnestly to be hoped that a similar delay will not oceur again. The same cause has prevented the printing of the Henry.Memorial volume authorized by Congress last winter, but the work on this will soon be begun.
Reports of the United States Fish Comnission.—A series of publications which may be considered as in some respects connected with the work of the Institution, not only in the personnel, but in the subjects of natural history discussed and in the resulting contributions to our knowledge, may properly be here noticed. The present Secretary being at the head of the United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, and the work accomplished by this agency in increasing and diffusing scientific as well as practical information being quite within the objects and province of the Institution, much of the material would legitimately form a portion of the Smithsonian Contributions or Miscellaneous Collections. These reports are, however, published by the government, and are distributed by Congress.

<<<Page: 43>>>

It is well known to the Board that the natural history of primitive man, especially in North America, has always been a special object of the attention of the Smithsonian Institution. The first volume of its series of publications consisted of a work by Messrs. Squier and Davis, entitled “The ancient monuments of the Mississippi Valley,” which, appearing in 1848, gave a stimulus to archeological research in America, and added greatly in exciting that high degree of interest in the subject, which now pervades the whole country. The work, although thirty years old, is still a standard publication, and greatly sought after. It had been in contemplation to reprint this work, to meet the great demand; but the destruction of all the wood-cuts by the disastrous fire of 1865 involved so great a cost in their reproduction that nothing has yet been done in the matter. ;
For the purpose of a more definite inquiry into the subject of mounds, earth-works, and other remains of early man in America, a large edition has been distributed, within a few years past, of a circular prepared at the request of the Smithsonian Institution by Prof. O. T. Mason, and a great many returns have been received, containing more or less valuable information on the subject in question. Some of these responses will appear in the reports of the Institution. The entire material is in Professor Mason’s hands for elaboration and the preparation of part of a new and systematic account of the whole subject, taking the memoir of Squier and Davis as a basis.
In view of the fact that some of the most interesting localities of archeological remains in the United States are now being systematically explored and the “finds” removed by foreign governments, it is very desirable that Congress should make the necessary appropriation to enable this work to be done for the benefit of the National Museum. The remains of prehistoric man, as well as illustrations of the life and manners of living savage races, have of late years been considered the most interesting objects of exhibition in all civilized nations, and especially within the last twenty or thirty years, and the greatest efforts are now made everywhere not only to complete the material for each country itself, but to obtain supplementary matter from elsewhere; indeed, so greatly are these aboriginal objects valued in many countries that positive laws prohibiting their exportation are in vogue, as in Denmark, Mexico, &c. The English, German, and French Governments have of late years been particularly active in archeological research in America, Central and South America being until recently the chief field of investigation. Within a short time, however, the French Government, through its agents, has been diligently oceupied in collecting prehistoric remains along the coast of California, and is about extending its work into New Mexico and Arizona, Oregon and Alaska, and many tons ot the choicest objects have already been removed to Paris. Whatever the feelings of regret on the part of Americans at seeing the removal of

<<<Page: 44>>>

articles of such value from our country, and which can never be replaced, there is no redress in the way of prohibiting their collection and its exportation. We may, however, prevent it in the future by our pre-occupying the ground. It is, therefore, to be hoped that Congress will make suitable appropriations for the purpose in question. Ten or twenty thousand dollars expended annually would enable us in a manner to defy foreign competition.
In the sundry civil appropriation bill of March 3, 1879, the following item was included:
“ For completing and preparing for publication the contributions to North American ethnology, under the Smithsonian Institution, twenty thousand dollars: Provided, That all the archives, records, and materials relating to the Indians of North America, collected by the geographical and geological survey of the Rocky Mountain region, shall be turned over to the Smithsonian Institution, that the work may be completed and prepared for publication under its direction: Provided, That it shall meet the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.”
Under the authority of this enactment, Major Powell sent out a party to make a renewed examination of the pueblo villages of New Mexico, tor the purpose of obtaining more accurate information for publication in the final report, as authorized. Accordingly, Mr. James Stevenson was placed by Major Powell at the head of an expedition, and was accompanied by Mr. Frank H. Cushing, one of the assistants in charge of the ethnological department of the National Museum. With Santa Fé as a Starting-point, they explored several localities in that vicinity and elsewhere, and succeeded in obtaining a large collection of everything illustrating the manners and customs of the pueblo towns. ‘The collections made have all been shipped by the Quartermaster’s Department, under the order already referred to, and are expected to arrive in a few weeks. ‘The whole mass occupies nearly one hundred boxes.
The operations of Messrs. Stevenson and Cushing have been much facilitated by means of letters furnished by the Secretary of War and ‘Generals Sherman and Meigs to the officers of the military posts.* General Hatch took a special interest in the subject, and issued a circular calling attention to the mission of the party, and inviting cooperation
*WAR DEPARTMENT, QUARTERMASTER-GENERAL’S OFFICE, Washington, D, C., June 19, 1879.
Sir: You are respectfully informed that your communication of the 12th instant, requesting that a circular be issued authorizing the Quartermaster’s Departinent to receive from parties living at or near military posts and to forward to Washington any articles intended for the National Museum, has been referred by the Secretary of War to this oftice for report, and this day returned with the following remarks:
“The Quartermaster’s Department, under existing orders, transports to the National Museum the collections of United States surveys and exploring expeditions, organized under the War Department.
“The law of March 3, 1879 (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chap. 182), makes

<<<Page: 45>>>

from all quarters. The effect of this was seen in the ready assistance rendered, and in the numerous contributions by both the military and civil residents of the district. The material result of this expedition will perhaps be thrown in the shade by the information obtained by Mr, Cushing in regard to the manners and customs of the Indians. Securing their confidence to a greater degree than any preceding traveller, his presence has been permitted at the performance of their most sacred rites; and the publication of his report by Major Powell may be looked for as promising to be of intense interest.
A very important addition made during the year to the ethnological department of the National Museum is the collection of Indian portraits and scenes painted by Mr. George Catlin, and presented by Mrs. Harrison, widow of Thomas Harrison, of Philadelphia.
There have been two of the so-called Catlin collections. The first is that which was exhibited by Mr. Catlin many years ago, in the United States, and afterwards taken to Europe and shown in the principal capitals. It made Mr. Catlin’s reputation as an artist and ethnologist, and furnished the material for his great work on the North American Indians.
Several years ago, Mr. Harrison, being in Belgium, found Mr. Catlin there very much embarrassed financially, and in danger of having his entire gallery sold for a trifle. He advanced the money to relieve Mr. Catlin’s embarrassment, and took the collection as security, with the understanding that at any time within a certain period of years it could be redeemed. This was out of Mr. Catlin’s power, and the collection was transferred to Philadelphia, where it was stored for many years, and, as stated, has just been presented by Mrs. Harrison.
After parting with his first gallery, Mr. Catlin traveled extensively in Western North America and through South America, and obtained many additional sketches of much interest. This second collection was brought some years ago by him to Washington in the hope of seiling it to the government, and was exhibited in the upper hall of the Smith-
tions.
“Tt, under the laws and orders relating to the Centennial Exhibition, transported to Philadelphia various and extensive collections for that exhibition; many, if not most, of which were finally brought to Washington, for deposit in the National Museum.
‘TJ recommend that the request of the director of the National Museum and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be granted.”
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, M. C. Meras,
Quartermaster-General, Brevet Major-General, U. S. A. Prof. Spencer F. Barren,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.
War DEPARTMENT, Washington, D. C., June 21, 1879. Sm: Replying to your letter of the 12th instant, in which you request that the Quartermaster’s Department be authorized to receive from parties living at or near

<<<Page: 46>>>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al
sonian Building (then otherwise unoccupied), under the care of Mr. Catlin himself. He, however, died before anything was accomplished, | and the pictures were packed up and stored in the Smithsonian basement until 1876, when the heirs had them transferred, for the purpose of exhibition at the Centennial. They are still displayed in Philadelphia as a part of the collections of the permanent exhibition.
Among particularly noteworthy contributions to the Museum during the year is a series of specimens of North African pottery, furnished by Mr. George Maw, of England, to whom the National Museum is indebted for the donation of his display of ceramic wares made at Philadelphia and which is now in the permanent exhibition building.
The National Museum of Mexico has furnished a cast of the calendar stone of the city of Mexico, and the originals of many rare and remarkable articles.
A collection of Brazilian pottery by Mr. Steere has already been mentioned, as also a fine collection of New Mexican objects by Mr. Metealfe. An extremely interesting collection of prehistoric articles of France and other localities in Europe was presented by Mr. Gaston L. Feuardent, of New York. The great archeological knowledge of this gentleman renders this collection particularly valuable in the authentic indication of the character of the different pieces.
Under the general head of “ Explorations” will be found mentioned a considerable number of researches, having in view the collecting of
mnilitary posts, and to forward to Washington, by the usual military channels, any articles intended for the National Museum, I have the honor to inform you that instructions have been given in accordance with your wishes. Very respectfully, G. W. McCRARY, Secretary of War. Prof. SPENCER F. Barrp, Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY, ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE, Washington, July 1, 1879.
By direction of the Secretary of War, the following is published:
The Quartermaster’s Department is authorized to receive from parties living at or near military posts any articles intended for the National Museum, and forward them to Washington, under the regulations governing transportation of military property, and on the same forms of bills of lading. The packages to be marked, ‘“‘ National Mu_ seum, care Depot Quartermaster, Washington, D. C.,” and settlement to be made by the Quartermaster’s Department.
By command of GENERAL SHERMAN:
: E. D. TOWNSEND, Adjutant General,
HEADQUARTERS District OF NEw MEXICO, Santa Fé, N. M., September 5, 1879. * To all officers of the Army serving in the district of New Mexico : The following letter is published for your information : As Mr. James Stevenson may find it impossible to visit all posts of the district, offi

<<<Page: 47>>>

archeological and anthropological material, and the list of donations gives an account of those of less moment. The most important explorations are those of Major Powell and Mr. E. W. Nelson.
Considering the subject geographically, we may refer, for Alaska, to the labors of Messrs. Nelson and Turner; for New Mexico, to those of Messrs. Metealfe, Stevenson, and Cushing. From the interior of the United States the archological collections have been very many, and will be found detailed in the list of donations.
From Mexico the most important material has been furnished by the National Museum of Mexico and by Professor Dugés. From the former have been received a very excellent model of the famous calendar-stone, and numerous articles of obsidian, stone, pottery, &c. Professor Dugeés has contributed a diminutive human face carved in iron pyrites, with small opals for eyes. The collections of Professor Steere, from Brazil, have already been referred to. From Europe we have a very interesting collection of prehistoric remains, especially from France, presented by Mr. Gaston L. Feuardent; and pottery from Persia, Morocco, and other countries, by Mr. George Maw, of London.
Casts of Indian heads.—Reference was made in the report for 1877 to a Series of casts, made by Mr. Clark Mills, at the joint expense of the Smithsonian Institution and the Peabody Museum at Cambridge, of the faces of sixty-five Indians held as prisoners of war at Saint Augustine, in Florida, these representing quite a number of different tribes and furnishing a very rare opportunity of securing life-like reproductions of the Indian physiognomy. ‘The Indians, as arule, are averse to such an operation, and but few such casts are extant in any anthropological museum. The few series distributed of duplicates of these representations have been much appreciated.
After the discharge of the Saint Augustine prisoners, or their trans-
cers serving therein are solicited to contribute any Indian relics, specimens of natural history, curiosities, &c., that may be obtainable in their neighborhood, and address them to Mr. Stevenson, care of chief quartermaster, district of New Mexico, sending the same by any government transportation leaving their posts for Santa Fé. Epwarp Harcu, Colonel Ninth Cavalry, Commanding.
‘(SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, JPashington, July 7, 1879.
“Mr. James Stevenson, the bearer of this letter, has been instructed by the Smithsonian Institution to visit New Mexico, Arizona, and other portions of the Southwest for the purpose of prosecuting investigations in ethnology and natural history.
“TY therefore commend him to the kind attention of officers of the United States Army, civilian officers of the United States Government, correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, and the friends of science generally. All aid rendered him in his work or contributions of specimens through him to the National Museum of the United States, will be duly acknowledged by the Smithsonian Institution.
‘* Mr. Stevenson is authorized to make use of all facilities granted to the Smithsonian Institution by railroad companies and the War Department in the transportation of collections made or otherwise obtained by him.
“SPENCER F. BAIRD, ‘Secretary Smithsonian Institution.”

<<<Page: 48>>>

fer to other stations, Capt. R. H. Pratt, United States Infantry, who had them in command, and who had become greatly interested in all measures looking towards the education of the Indians, was authorized by the government to bring a number of young Indians of both sexes to the school for colored youth so successfully conducted by General Armstrong at Hampton, Va. This having been accompiished, an opportunity was furnished of extending the series of casts, and Mr. Clark Mills again volunteered his services to do the work, simply for his expenses. Captain Pratt accordingly made the arrangements for its execution. This second series makes the entire number of representations of Indians in the museum about one hundred. These casts are valuable to us, both as anthropologie representations in themselves and as furnishing the means of producing lay figures in great number and variety to display the many sets of Indian clothing and equipment now forming part of the general collection.
In this connection it may be mentioned that Captain Pratt has more recently established a special school for the education of Indian youth, of both sexes, at Carlisle, Pa., using the government barracks for its accommodation. Here he expects to bring together between three and four hundred individuals and has every assurance of a successful experiment.
Among the operations of the Smithsonian Institution, especially fostered from the beginning by my predecessor, and looked upon by him as one of its most important functions, is that of exploration in little-known regions of North America. It was his policy not to use the funds of the Institution in purchasing collections already made, but rather, by means of occasiona! grants of money in small sums, either to fit out small parties starting from Washington, or to assist correspondents of the Institution, wherever they might be resident, in making researches in their own vicinity. These labors generally included more than one branch of science, and in their aggregate have tended very largely to give the National Museum its remarkable number of type specimens. Thus grants of money were made, of various sums, from $5 to $250, very rarely exceeding the latter amount in any one year to any one agent.
The results of the explorations condensed in whole or in part by the Smithsopvian Institution, in 1879, have not been inferior in importance to those of any previous year; in fact they have seldom been exceeded; resulting not only in bringing together many new facts in natural history and ethnology, but also in adding large collections to those already in hand. The prospect of having a new building capacious enough to accommodate whatever may be received in this direction was an encouragement to utilize opportunities of obtaining objects, from which we were formerly deterred by want of space.
Among the more important explorations made under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution in 1879, may be mentioned that of Mr. B. W.

<<<Page: 49>>>

Nelson in Northwestern Alaska. As explained in previous reports, Mr. Nelson was nominated by the Smithsonian Institution to General Myex as a Signal observer at Saint Michael’s, a station on Norton Sound, south of Behring Strait—a district of very great interest in both an ethnologieal and natural-history point of view; and although numerous collections had previously been received from that region, as made by Messrs. Dall, Kennicott, Pease, Bannister, and Turner, there was still enough unaccomplished to make it important that the work should be continued. The institution was fortunate in being able to secure the aid of Mr. Nelson, as being a most excellent naturalist and particularly well acquainted with the vertebrate animals of North America.
Mr. Nelson proceeded to his station at Saint Michael’s, and has remained there ever since, of course devoting the principal portion of his time to his duties as signal observer, and, it is understood, to the satisfaction of his superiors, while his leisure has been employed in making observations and collections of natural history. Previous reports have noted the additions already made by him. The collection of 1879 is especially important in an ethnological point of view; not less than three thousand specimens of Indian and Esquimaux work in the way of earvings, implements, clothing, domestic and household utensils, games, &e., have been received. These filled fourteen large boxes, the remainder of the collection consisting chiefly of birds, eggs, and fishes. The total number of pieces furnished by Mr. Nelson amounts to 2,935.
Mr. Nelson is preparing an elaborate report on the natural history and ethnology of Northwestern Alaska for publication after his return.
The labors of Mr. Lucien M. Turner in the Aleutian Islands have also been prosecuted during the year, and have furnished, as heretofore, a large amount of interesting material for the National Museum.
Mr. Turner, as mentioned in previous reports, like Mr. Nelson, is one of the observers of the United States Signal Service, and has under his charge a number of temporary stations along the entire extent of the Aleutian Islands. The supervision of these stations makes it necessary for him to go from point to point as an opportunity is furnished, thus allowing a chance to study the natural history and ethnology of a widely-extended region. The greater part of the season of 1879 was passed at Sitka, his principal station, however, being Unalaska. Among the collections sent down by him, besides some very finelyprepared specimens of birds (among them species of great rarity), was a series of very elaborate and delicate carvings in bone made by the Aleutian Islanders.
Capt. L. A. Beardslee, of the Navy, who for several years had been detailed by the Navy Department to take charge of the steamers furnished to the United States Fish Commission, especially the “Blue Light” and the “Speedwell,” was sent out during the early part of the year in command of the sloop-of-war Jamestown to look after the interest of the citizens of the United States in Alaskan waters. With

<<<Page: 50>>>

Sitka as his headquarters he was enabled to exercise a supervision over the Indians of the adjacent parts of the country.
The experience which Captain Beardslee acquired during his service with the Fish Commission, in making observations on the natural and physical conditions of the water, prepared him more fully for his researches in this new field, and the Institution gladly accepted his offer of service and supplied him with necessary apparatus. No specimens have so far been received from Captain Beardslee, but a consignment is expected in the early part of 1880.
An extensive exploration of the islands and waters of the North Pacific, indeed even through Behring Strait, was made during the last summer by the “Richard Rush,” Captain Bailey, commander. Before starting, her surgeon, Dr. White, of the Marine Hospital Service, offered his services to the Institution in making such collections as might be designated; and as a trained naturalist, experienced in research, having prosecuted his studies in Edinburgh under the direction of Sir Wyville Thompson and others, his proposition was gladly aecepted. Many collections of much interest were made by Dr. White and duly received by the Smithsonian Institution. They consist for the most part of embryonic or foetal seals, porpoises, &c., various fishes, and many marine invertebrates. Skins and skeletons of several species of seals were also included.
The “Jeannette.,—Much interest was excited during the past year by the announcement that the “Pandora,” an English vessel, which had already been engaged in Arctic research in the hands of Capt. Allen Young was to be employed in a similar service, entirely at the expense of Mr. James Gordon Bennett, of New York, as the “Jeannette,” under the command of Lieutenant De Long, an officer of the United
States Navy, who had already had a Northern experience in the Greenland Seas while in search of the “ Pelaris.”. The “ Jeannette” was taken by Lieutenant De Long to San Francisco, by way of Cape Horn; her commander returning overland to the East, and spending some time in Washington in obtaining his outfit and instructions. The Smithsonian Institution was requested by Mr. Bennett to nominate a competent naturalist for the expedition, and selected Mr. Raymond L. Newcombe, of Salem, Mass., who joined the steamer in San Francisco, and with her left for the North. Letters received, both from him and Captain De Long, and written at Saint Michael’s, Alaska, show that a large amount of work has been accomplished in the way of natural history researei ; and it is hoped that the results of the expedition will be commensurate with the expectations of all interested. At the last advices from the ‘“‘ Jeannette” she was seen by a whaling captain in the vicinity of Wrangel Land, this being her main objective point.
Professor Jordan, who has been detailed by Mr. Goode to work up the fisheries of the Pacific coast of the United States, reported at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, in December, 1879, and there

<<<Page: 51>>>

received the necessary instructions for his work. At the latest advices he had reached San Diego and commenced his investigations of the fisheries, with the promise of exhaustive results there and at other points on the coast. He is provided by the National Museum with the necessary apparatus for making collections on a liberal scale, to serve as illustrations of the fishery statistics.
The collecting and exhibition of what may be considered vouchers of his labors are very necessary, since the names of our Eastern species are largely applied to Western forms in every respect different from them; and without the means of examination and comparison much confusion would result. Thus, what is called cod in San Francisco has no relation to the cod of the Eastern coast, belonging to an entirely different group. :
Among the explorations of the year, and especially rich in ethnological results, is that prosecuted by Mr. 8. T. Walker, on the west coast of Florida. With this gentlemen the Institution has been in communication for several years, and has received from him many valuable archeological objects. During the past year he has been engaged in a systematic survey of the mounds in the vicinity of Clear Water, Fla., and has found evidence to show that at the time of their construction white men were in the vicinity, from whom were obtained numerous articles of ornament, &c. Conspicuous among these are gold and silver beads, portions of bronze fittings of gun locks, Venetian beads, fragments of Spanish pottery, Wc. From all the indications, it is possible that these were obtained from some of the early Spanish invaders, or other whites, at no distant period from the time of De Soto’s conquest.
Many collections of reptiles, living and in alcohol, fishes, mammals, and birds have also been furnished by Mr. Walker.
Mr. James W. Milner, the. Assistant Fish Commissioner of the United States, was obliged by ill health to spend the winter of 1878-79 in Florida, making his home at Homosassa, on the west coast. Here, although greatly enfeebled by disease which in a great measure crippled his efforts, he obtained, with the help of those about him, very valuable collections of prehistoric remains, birds, fishes, and other natural-history objects.
Mexico.—Mr. Silas Stearns, formerly of Pensacola, and for several years a valued correspondent of the Smithsonian Institution, in the early part of last summer was detailed by Mr. Goode to collect the statistics of fish and the fisheries on the Gulf of Mexico in the interest of the fisheries branch of the census. For this purpose he chartered a small sloop for use in prosecuting his work. From time to time, without interfering with his regular duty, he has succeeded in securing numerous objects of natural history for the National Museum, among them quite a number of fish, some of these, probably, new to science.
Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of ornithology in the National Museum, accompanied by a friend, Mr. H. W. Henshaw, made an expedition to

<<<Page: 52>>>

Cobb’s Island, off the Eastern Shore of Virginia, during the past summer, for the purpose of collecting skins of the adult and young water birds abounding in that vicinity. Although rather late in their undertaking (July 29) they were quite successful, obtaining a number of interesting species during their stay of ten days.
For several years past Mr. F. A. Ober has been engaged, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, in making observations and collections in natural history and archeology in the West India Islands ; this group, strange as it may appear, furnishing almost a virgin field of research. In the course of his labors, beginning in 1877, Mr. Ober visited a number of the islands and collected many specimens; of these the birds have already been worked up, fully catalogued, and described by Mr. Lawrence in the proceedings of the National Museum. No less than twenty new species of birds have been added to science, and a great deal of information obtained in regard to their geographical distribution. The National Museum is now in possession of what is believed to be the most complete collection of West Indian birds extant; a very important corollary to its North and Central American series. The other collections made by Mr. Ober were mainly of archeological objects and reptiles.
Mr. Ober has lately published an interesting account of his travels, entitled ‘‘ Camps in the Caribees.”
Prof. J.B. Steere, of the University of Michigan, at Ann-Arbor, who has an excellent record as an explorer in China, Formosa, and elsewhere, invited the Smithsonian Institution to a co-operation in a proposed exploration of the Amazon River during the past summer. He was accordingly provided with certain apparatus and material for collecting, and made excellent use of his opportunities. Since his return he has contributed to the National Museum a collection of the ancient pottery from the island of Maranon, and other localities in the Amazon River, thus filling a very serious gap in our archeological museum. During Professor Steere’s previous explorations in the East, the Smithsonian Institution was the consignee of his collections, and rendered much service in securing their safe and inexpensive transmission to America.
Dr. Charles J. Hering, of Paramaribo, Surinam, still maintains his interest in the Smithsonian Institution, by sending to it collections in natural history and archeology. Several parcels have been forwarded by him during the past year, the contents of which will be mentioned under his name in the list of acquisitions.
Dr. Otto Finsch, the eminent. ornithologist and naturalist, and for many years director of the Natural History Museum at Bremen, in Germany, after completing his recent explorations in Siberia, undertook to visit the islands of the Pacific Ocean, partly in the interest of the Berlin Museum, partly at the expense of the Humboldt Exploration Fund, and partly at his own.

<<<Page: 53>>>

Having offered his services to the United States Fish Commission in any way connected with his labors, he was requested to bring over a consignment of German carp, a fish which promises to be of great value in American pisciculture. This was done by him, and he delivered to the United States carp ponds, in Washington, a number of these fishes in a healthy condition, which, it is hoped, will, in a few years, be the progenitors of a large number of that species of fish.
In order to enable Dr. Finsch to carry on his polynesian researches to better advantage and at less-expense to himself, free passes and reduced passage tickets for himself and party were obtained from several ef the transcontinental railroad companies. The Smithsonian Institution provided Dr. Finsch with a partial outfit for marine exploration, including a supply of alcohol for the preservation of reptiles and fishes. Dr. Finsch proceeded first to the Sandwich Islands, and then to the Fijis, and at the latest advices he had reached one of the groups of the Marshall Islands.
As was explained in the report for 1878, the system of international exchanges organized by the Smithsonian Institution nearly thirty years ago has long been considered one of its most important functions, and no greater obstruction to the intercourse between the scientific institutions of the Old World and New can be imagined than that of an interruption of this work. As already stated, an organization intended primarily to aid in the prompt transmission of the publications of the Institution to its correspondents, at home and abroad, was extended so as to include the corresponding exchanges of other institutions; this has now resulted in furnishing by far the most extensive system of exchanges in existence, the benefits of which are experienced and appreciated all over the world.
The foreign agencies employed in the Smithsonian exchanges are of three classes.
First. Individuals or firms, some of them salaried by the Institution and devoting more or less of their time to its work.
Second. Learned societies or universities, which do on a small scale in their respective countries what the Smithsonian Institution does on a larger scale for the world in general.
Third. Special government bureaus of international exchange, organized for the purpose. It is quite probable that the number of this class, now restricted to four, namely, the Commission Belge des échanges internationaux, the Commission Frangaise des échanges internationaux, the Bureau central scientifique of Haarlem, and the Bundes Canzlei for Switzerland, will be increased until, possibly, in time, the greater part of the ser vice in Europe in connection with the Smithsonian Institution, may be performed by them. This will, of course, constitute a very desirable aid to the Smithsonian Institution and to the second class mentioned, especially as to the expenses of the work.

<<<Page: 54>>>

The operations of the Commission Francaise des échanges internationaux, inaugurated in 1878, have constantly improved in extent and efficiency through 1879, a large number of boxes having been exchanged between it and the Smithsonian Institution to the entire satisfaction of both parties. Numerous applications have been made by the Freneh bureau to the Smithsonian Institution for special works, public or private, required by the governmental bureaus, especially for the national library, the ministry of public instruction, etc. On receipt of these applications circulars were sent to various parties interested, and a large number of acceptable returns promptly received and duly forwarded by the Institution. On the other hand applications by the Institution in behalf of American bodies have been satisfactorily answered. This feature of the system of international exchanges is one of great importance.
In addition to the official applications fer special publications of the United States, made through the system of international exchanges, one was presented by the French minister to the Smithsonian Institution for the reports of the United States Fish Commission, those of the several State fish commissions, and any other-documents serving to illustrate the steps taken for the propagation and utilization of fishes in the United States. This request was in behalf of the Senate of France, which recently appointed a commission to investigate the relations between citizens and the State in respect to the rights and conditions of fishing in both fresh and salt waters. A circular was accordingly addressed to the parties indicated, and quite a complete series of documents was obtained and transmitted to Mousicur Outrey, the minister. He has acknowledged with thanks the receipt of the package, and given assurance of his appreciation of the courtesy.
It has already been explained that the Smithsonian Institution not only serves as a medium of exchange to institutions and individuals in the United States, but also to these of Canada, Central America, Mexico, the West Indies, and Sonth America. An extra amount of labor has been imposed upon the Institution, during the past year, owing, in large part, to the interruption of operations in 1878, caused by the death of Professor Henry. The accumulated material of that year has, however, all been disposed of, together with the receipts of 1879; the aggregate being shown in the accompanying schedule. It is quite likely that operations in this line during 1880 will, be but little behind those of 1879, as, for years, there has been a steady increase in the bulk of the exchanges; and this is not likely to be interrupted.
In the preceding report reference was made to the adoption of a rule, under authority granted by the Board of Regents, by which packages received from the government bureaus were charged a uniform rate of five cents per pound for packing, boxing, and shipping to destination. This has been carried into effect, but has only secured the return of about a hundred dollars, evidently not a sufficient sum to affeet ma. terially the expense of the exchange system—a very onerous burden
S. Mis. 544

<<<Page: 55>>>

upon the funds of the Institution, and greatly affecting its operations. Formerly, when the cost of the exchanges amounted to only two or three thousand dollars a year, the publications of the Institution were of much greater extent than they are now; and it is to be hoped that some provision may be made by which the expenses of exchange may be materially lessened, and the former very desirable prominence of the publication department be restored. It is a question whether the assistance of Congress might not be invoked to make an appropriation to bear at least a part of the cost. Ifa few thousand dollars were furnished by the Government, it would be of very material aid and tend greatly to relieve the Institution of a burden which is fast becoming oppressive. One special argument in favor of such Congressional action is found in the fact that, while this system of exchanges benefits equally all the libraries and societies of the country, the benefit of the returns inuring to the Smithsonian Institution is experienced directly by Congress; the expenditures for both publications and exchanges being actually in the interest of the Congressional Library, in which all the Smithsonian books are now deposited. It may safely be said that if the amount of money used in carrying on the exchanges was expended directly in the purchase of books for the Library of Congress, it would not produce the same yield, in view of the fact that these returns to the Smithsonian Institution consist largely of the publications of societies interested in the prosecution of theoretical and applied science, which, while embracing the earliest announcement of important discoveries, are for the most part not on sale, and only to be obtained by a system of exchange.
As in previous years, the following transportation companies have favored the Institution by a remission of charges upon its packages, and thus enabled it to carry on its system of international exchanges with a fr action of the expense which would otherwise have been required.
Anchor Steamship Company. New York and Brazil Steamship Company. Atlas Steamship Company. New York and Mexico Steamship Company. Companie Générale Transatlantique. North German Lloyd Steamship Company. Cunard Steamship Company. Pacific Mail Steamship Company. Hamburg American Packet Company. Pacific Steam Navigation Company. Inman Steamship Company. Panama Railroad Company. Merchants’ Line of Steamers. White Cross Line of Antwerp. Netherland-American Steam Navigation
Company.
The special thanks of the Institution are again tendered to the abovementioned companies for their enlightened liberality.
In addition to this, through the mediation of Mr. Isaac Hinckley, president of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad Company, the four roads forming the connection between New York and Washington, namely, the Pennsylvania Railroad, the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore, the Baltimore and Potomac, and Baltimore and Ohio, have agreed to areduction to one-half of the usual charges on firstclass freight. The saving from this concession, although not quite

<<<Page: 56>>>

equal to that of free freights by the ocean steamers, is a matter of very great importance, and is deserving of special acknowledgment.
Messrs. Murray, Ferris & Co., of 62 South street, New York, have granted free freight to the Bahamas.
Statistics of exchanges sent during the last ten years.
1870. 1871. 1872 1873. 1874. 1875. 1876. 1877. 1878. 1879. Number of boxes. . 121 108 179 196 131 208 323 397 309 311 Bulk in cubic feet 1, 189 772 954 1, 476 933 1, 508 2, 261 2,779 2,160 Qa, MUG asa cone 31, 383 | 28,950 | 26, 850 | 44, 2u6 | 27,990 | 45, 300 | 80, 750 | 99, 250 | 69, 220 69, 975
The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments with which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others in return:
Foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution.
AU GOn as eas sacs Sates eee ceceisees Geil diapers seas sims are sare iore eo ajete 34 ANieexerani lave) IRA) NWO Ae beaooeoss cosoe Iga ie) Wye eeacoosores Ob nTeeEe caRabac 198 Australia and Tasmania....-..---AW || ARVN oo pee bad beacleccoseselceegue 5 ANP) SNe WA fosoane ca Scoaponooe IE | WHithosemcananees. bes meocadmecosos 5 IBeloiumyt ss S525 e252) ake es ce 1H QE Mtb eriaiee psa se ee ere see 1 IBYOLRINWIG). Geet oe ete a ae eee fe eMart See ses a oa eto neers crierevere 4 Bra7beeetee ee pony eeee cn coche ecisis.c UL PME ORC Os rape este erate sete ae.tats 18 BTUs NOAM ORICA 52.212 ee aste je ete QO eNews Zealamal soles sen a elope 16 BriiishvGiutanaeeseee esse a. e se = 3} | INGAWERVeooesesb00s6 s6ecna bb EDoocc 25 Cape Colonies and St. Helena ..--|| RARE ScccKboboodocdosopaaasesc 1 CentralpAmeriGass-c4: 62 ace acclee PAT Wedei eb Wa Het ee Betne Oteia tena Gis ROS ED Oe 4 CIMA aOR SR ERS Seer ae rere S|) Philp pineiislandses-c-.c1 tel 3 @hinmaperreen. shee eee eee tee ae @ || 1onMe es o-oo 550 H560Sbo000C 3D @olombiagMeee, . wach s-eeselsees 3 Russia : hep es tad oobi aes eae LO iD) CTIMARKe es eee eae os ostec case 29 | Sandw ich Isl: ands. EA eae 2 Duvschs Guiana seas ts ee eae Ie SSpaimesasas-= Pe Ae Ae oe 25 I} CUAG ORF ae Ss. Sie seers ease = le Siwedente 44. 4:2 4e. aes cet cee eets 22 EY Covi bier Sete hese ose), SIS <vete's S|) Gye eno oe caso cose eeacocasdcde 76 NAITO meres Seren noes ere oes ees atoll) Abnbe Renee eee Shor ce oceseasncoGacae 13 Germamyesanaes Seles saixte ae cies BylT WUiriveiehyoo case ae ascecn Seaeeaeeoue 5 Great Britain and Ireland...-.-..AQT SI WiGiS7iielae 8 tees apee classe ale evs 2 Greece Mass py eee aes et. Bees 10: i Westindies. (Al Giga Mehl susea! 12 1EVolie ya Gas eno aocea sosa Sate oon Oe 74 | International societies...... ---.-7 Weclan Gk: sane sss ee nose soe 4
Totals 2 eee Eee een ae:
Eachange of Government documents.—It will be remembered that some years avo Congress directed that fifty sets of all government publications, whether printed by order of Congress or of the departments, should be placed at the command or the Joint Library Committee for the purpose of exchange for corresponding publications of other nations. This work was intrusted toe the Smithsonian Institution, by which it was carried on for a number of years.
An appropriation of one thousand dollars is made by Congress for “purposes connected with this exchange, of which a portion is paid for freight and expenses on boxes of books received by the library through the Institution. The returns received are increasing rapidly in value,

<<<Page: 57>>>

and in a few years may be expected to nearly or quite equal the transmissions.
In accordance with the law relative to the exchange of the official pub lications of the United States Government for those of foreign nations, sixty boxes of documents were forwarded during the past year, as shown by the following list of distribution :
International exchange of government publications in 1879.
Boxes. Boxes
Argentine Republic.--.-. .---.--.. I D/eNexvy, Zealand: oso, os acictes see eee 1 IBAVATIAS a Je eeoce cess sete ae ne I NOT Ways de eta secs aces sass sree 1 Belin sch. ose ne ses e eta eee ae A= PRorbu cal eee os s-cnsee «seco eers I Brazill: 2s Soom anise sasinse ecies US PUSS Tarai. ey sara era sie sre eters I Buenos Ayres. 225-25. 2225 2. S22 22-0 Ly Queenslands. 52st sass ce osaeee ce 1 Canada (Ottawa) ss2es2)as25eee ,1 i WiG@SaRxonys css ee wet ds teesasaece 1 Canada(@oronto)pesess. = 2 i esoubhpAns tralt aes “eevee ere eer 1 Chi eee eee eee ein eos siecle ALAS vie LES Sete ees Sse as leet 1 Wentmarkes.het Seea-s ts saciee,s se ee = LOMAS Wedents. = 2s acest ct cee peepee 1 Da CO me sere ace ioe seis, oe eects I | Swatzerland -.-. 2.2 s-sceees seen Hi Germanys ose se see wae ar ft RAS a aes le ares ate ae eer 1 Greece Ta sahe ys aerate Sea eS A: || Bumlr@y asia. oh: csis eee eee ee 1 IP RV itil resistence, ccleecies vee aes seemecise LV OMCNCZNE] Be so 2/ec eS ce sree eee 1 le iON Leese eesoneadoeom pacseaas PW AVA CTOM 2 Stowe a0 ts cine = eevee reece 1 dj pilesecaceeotoo oor soo seoesoeeae LF | MVWiurtemberc../.eee ese 10 MGS CORSE cee eeeeiee Cl enienar 1
New: South Walesececcsaaman 1 Motels vic s-ecisteae este ee eeeceise 60
A steady increase in the number of additions to thé library of the Institution has, as usual, characterized the year just past, the aggregate, amounting to 10,203 books, pamphlets, and charts, as compared with 8,729 in the previous year. The greater portion of these works have already been transferred to the library of Congress, in accordance with the arrangements of previous years, where, however, owing to the very crowded condition of the shelves, they are not very serviceable. It is much to be hoped, in the interest of the Institution, that some measures may soon be adopted by Congress for increasing the accommodations of the library, and consequent accessibility to its volumes on the part of students.
As heretofore, the great mass of additions to the library consists of the transactions of learned societies, which, indeed, constitute its most important feature. Books published in the regular way ean be purchased without any difficulty through established agencies. Transactions of societies, however, are for the most part, only to be had by an exchange, and it would be almost impossible to secure the works obtained by the Institution through its exchanges, with any reasonable amount of money and to any degree of completeness. Livery year new scientific associations are being formed, and these, for the most part, take the initiative in seeking an exchange with this establishment.
Of course the older societies are seldom able to furnish volumes of

<<<Page: 58>>>

their series which date very far back; but the Smithsonian Institution has succeeded in completing its sets, partly by purchase of such as have drifted into the second hand or antiquarian book trade, and partly by exchange with public libraries possessing duplicates. It is confidently believed that the library of the Institution, and consequently that of Congress, 1S in possession of a larger and more perfect series of such transaetions, as also, of scientific periodicals than any other library extant.
The accompanying memorandum gives an indication of some of the more important additions to the library.
The receipts from the system of Congressional exchanges already referred to, by which fifty sets of the publications of the government are available for exchanges with foreign governments have also been very great; but as these are not catalogued, but transferred directly to the library of Congress, it is, of course, to the report of Mr. Spofford that reference must be had for details.
Statement of the books, maps, and charts received by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution during the year ending December 51, 1879. Volumes:
Octavio, or smaller ny sh ayscuhe ls sales. 68 aepelstehes aauafeisters yl OOO Quarto, or larger ..... Sine opbe ou og eso es Ee a4 Seber on 440 1949 Parts of volumes: Oetavo nor Surgery eer ton caias ateleye niet oop HHBECOROES O65 ALL CUTER COS (ie J En WSK2) Oo Selb une Be cepa bee cae OS OR OE EOE 2, 612 5, 852 Pamphlets : Octavo, or smaller. ...SE BRI GR More eames eins Gabe wlA (O45) @Quartolor larger . 2:2. . .esi etleteratecla sya cterer ce caer 591 2, 219 Mapsrandieharest 22. 255 SP DS RTS eiarel srelerersie ae Bes lie 185 Motale Seijacte sesh = 6 ROE SR IE atic At st aie 10, 203
List of some of the more valuable works received in 1879.
From the Norwegian Geographical Institute, Christiania: Historisk Beretning om Norges Geografiske op Maaling, 1873-1876, af C. M. de Seue. Kristiania, 1878. 8vo. Aarbog for Handelsmarinen. 1875, ii; 1876, 1, 11; 1877, i, ii; 1878, i. Kristiania. Svo. And 19 maps.
From the Society of Agriculture, Sciences, and Arts, Valenciennes: Mémoires. vols. iii, vi, ix. Valenciennes, 1841-1855. S8vo. Mémoires historiques sur arrondissement de Valenciennes. vols. ii, v. Valenciennes, 1868-78. 8vo. Revue agricole, industrielle, littéraire et artistique. vols. v-xxxi. Valenciennes, 1853~’78. 8vo.
From the Imperial Society of Friends of Natural Sciences, Anthropology, and Ethnology, Moscow: Ezoyistia (Bulletin, 55 parts), 1866-78. Moscow. 4to.

<<<Page: 59>>>

From the Bodleian Library, Oxford: Calendar of the Clarendon state papers, 1523-1657. vols. i-ili. Oxford, 1872-76. 8vo. Calendar of charters and rolls preserved in the Bodleian Library. Oxford, 1878. 8vo.
From the Ministry of Public Instruction and Worship, Paris: Compte général du matériel du dép. de la marine et des colonies, 1874. Paris, 1878. folio. Journal des savants, 1877, 1878,1879. Paris. 4to. (35 parts.) Nouvelles archives du Museum d’histoire naturelle. 2° série, tome i. 1878. Paris. 4to. (2 copies.) Exposition universelle de Vienne, 1873. France. Rapports. vols. 1-5. Paris, 1875. 8vo. Annuaire -de la marine et des colonies. 1878, 1879. Paris. 8vo. (2 copies.) Tableaux de population, de culture, de commerce et de navigation. 1865-76. Paris. 8vo. (24 vols.) Voyage géologique dans les républiques de Guatemala et de Salvador, par MM. A. Dollfus et E. de MontSerrat. Paris. 1878. 4to. Annuaire statistique dela France. Année i,1878. Paris. 8vo. Notice sur la déportation a la Nouvelle-Calédonie, 1874, 1876, 1878. Paris. 8vo. (6 vols.) Notice sur la transportation a la Guyane francaise et 4 la Nouvelle-Calédonie, 1868-75. Paris. 8vo. Statistique des péches maritimes. 1875. Paris. 8vo. (2 copies.) Monnaies 4 légendes arabes frappées en Syrie par les croises par Henri Lavoix. Paris, 1877. 8vo. Enumération des arbres et arbrisseaux cultivés 4 Legrer, par A. Lavallée. Paris,1877. 8vo. Grammaire Malgache, par Marre de Marin. Paris, 1876. 8vo. Théorie des fonctions de variables imaginaires, par Maximilien Marie. vols. i-iil. Paris, 1874-76. 8vo. Inventaire général et méthodique des manuscrits francais de la Bibliotheque nationale. vol. ii. Paris, 1878. 8vo. Htudes égyptologiques. 8, 10,11. Paris, 1877, 1878. 4to. Mélanges W@archéologie égyptienne et assyrienne. 9,10. Paris, 1877, 1878. 4to. Catalogue de la Bibliothéque de la ville de Lille, and other works. 8 vols. Lille, 1839-79. 8vo. Qiuvres completes de La Place. vols. i-iii. Paris, 1878. 4to. Dionysii Byzantii de Bospori navigatione, par C. Wescher. Paris, 1874. 4to. Dela température du corps humain, par P. Lorain. Tomes i,ii. Paris, 1877. 8vo. Dictionnaire de la langue Déné Dindjié, par le R. P. E. Pelitot. Paris, 1876. 4to. Vocabulaire francais-esquimau, par le R. P. E. Pelitot. Paris, 1876. 4to. Dictionnaire darchéologie égyptienne, par Paul Pierret. Paris, 1875. 8vo. Théorie des fonctions de variables imaginaires, par M. Marie. Paris, 1874-76. 8vo. Tome i-iii. Six charts and 31 volumes, 36 parts and 34 pamphlets, government documents.
From the Belgian Commission of International Exchanges, Brussels: Messager des sciences historiques de Belgique, 1833-75. Gand. 8vo. (44 vols.) Documents et rapports de la Société paléontologique et archéologique de Charleroi. vols. i-iii. Mons, 1866-70. 8vo. Bulletin de la Société royale linnéenne de Bruxelles. vols. i-vi. Bruxelles, 1872-77. 8vo. Bulletins de PAcadémie royale des sciences, des lettres et des beaux-arts de Belgique, 1832-75. Bruxelles. Svo. Annales des travaux publics de Belgique. vols. i-xxxiii. Bruxelles, 1843-75. 8vo.

<<<Page: 60>>>

Annuaire de. VAcadémie royale de Belgique. vols. i-xlii. Bruxelles, 1835-75. 12mo. Annales de ?Académie d’archéologie de Belgique. 2° série. vols. i-x. 3° serie. vol.i. Anvers, 1865-75. S8vo. Bulletin de YAcadémie M@archéologie de Belgique. ITase. i-xi. Anvers, 1868-74. Svo. Documents inédits concernant Vhistoire de la Belgique, publiés par L. P. Gachard. vols. i-iii. Bruxeiles, 1834-35. 8vo. Compte-rendu des séances de la Commission royale d’histoire, ou recueil de ses bulletins. 1834-72. Bruxelles. 8vo. (45 vols.) Fraissart. Etude littéraire. vols. i-2. Bruxelles, 1857, 8vo. Histoire de la maison de SaxeCoburg-Gotha, par A. Scheler. Biuxelles, 1846. 8vo. Dictionnaire détymologie frangaise, par A. Scheler. Nouvelle édition. Bruxelles, 1873. 8vo. Revue de lanumismatique belge. Années i-xxxiv. 1842-78. Bruxelles. 8vo. Histoire du regne de Charles Quint en Belgique, par A. Henne. Tomes i-x. Bruxelles, 1858-60. 8vo. Histoire de la Flandre, par L. A. Warnkeoenig. vols. i-ii. Bruxelles, 1835-36. 8vo. Imprimeurs belges et néerlandais a V’étranger. Tome i. Gand, 1856. 8vo. Histoire des biliotheques de Belgique, par A. Voisin. Gand, 1840. Svo. Bulletin des commissions royales Wart et d’archéologie. Années i-xvi. Bruxelles, 1862-77. Svo. Histoire politique et militaire de Belgique, par M. B. Renard. vol.i, parts land 2. Bruxelles, 1847-51. Svo. Tresor national. vols. iv. Second series. i-iv. Bruxelles, 1842-44, 8vo. Lectures relatives 4 histoire des sciences, des arts, des lettres, des meeurs et de la politique en Belgique, par F. V. Goethals. vols. i-iv. Bruxelles, 1837-38. 8vo. Le proces du comte d’Egmont, par M. De Bavay. Bruxelles, 1853. 8vo. Etudes sur les constitutions nationales, par C. Faider. Bruxelles, 1842. 8vo. Le socialisme depuis Yantiquité jusqu’a la constitution fran¢gaise du 14 janvier 1842, par J. J. Thomissen. vols.i-ii. Louvain, 1852. Svo. Documents sur le systéme des assurances par V’état. Tome i-ii. Bruxelles, 1847-49. 4to. Canaux et rivieres de la Belgique, par B. L. De Rive. Bruxelles, 1835. 8vo. Histoire de la ville de Gand, par L. A. Warnkénig. Bruxelles, 184€. 8vo. Revue de Vinstruction publique en Belgique. 1858-77. Bruges and Gand. 8vo. (20 volumes.) Bulletin de la Commission centrale de statistique belge. Tome i-xii. Bruxelles, 1843-72. 4to. Revue @histoire et darchéologie. vols. i-iv. Bruxelles, 1859-64. 8vo. tudes sur Salluste, parC. 0. de Gerlache. Bruxelles, i847. 8vo. Btudes poli tiques sur histoire ancienne et moderne, par Paul Devaux. Bruxelles, 1875. S8vo. Bulletin and Annales de la Société beige de microscope. vols. i-ii. Bruxelles, 1875-76. 8vo. Ciuvres comptctes de J. J. Raepsaet. vols. i-vi, and notice nécrologique. Gand. 1838-41. Svo. Des voies navigables en Belgique. Bruxelles, 1542. Folio. Bibliographie de Belgique. vols. i-iii. 1875-77. Bruxelles. 8vo. Actes des états géneraux de 1600-32. Bruxelles, 1849-66. 4to. (3 vols.)
From the Société de médecine, Marseille: Bulletin des travaux. Années 1-xii. 1857-68. Marseille. 8vo. Marseille médical. 1869-78. Marseille. 8yo. 115 parts.

<<<Page: 61>>>

From the National Institute of France, Paris: Mémoires de ’ Académie des sciences. vols. xxxviii, xxxix, xl. Paris, 1873-77. 4to. Comptesrendus des séances de Académie des sciences. vols. ]xxi-Ixxxvi. Paris. 4to. 1871-78. Annuaire, 1865-79. S8vo. (13 vols.) Mémoires de ? Académie des inscriptions et belles-lettres. 8 parts. Paris. 1871-78 4to. Notices et extraits de manuscrits de la bibliotheque nationale, ete. vols. xv—xxii, i; xxiii; xxiv, ii; xxvi, li; xxvii, ii; xxvii, ii. Paris, 1870-78. 4to. Reeueil des discours, rapports et pieces diverses. 1860-69-70-79. Paris. 4to. Recueil des mémoires, rapports, ete., relatifs 4 Vobservation du passage de Vénus sur le soleil. 'T. 1, ii,4. Paris, 1876-78. 4to. And 40 pamphlets.
From the Academy of Montpellier, Faculty of Medicine: Theses. 1876-77-78. Montpellier. 4to. (9 vols. and 158 parts.)
From the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences, Copenhagen: Nye Samling af det kongelige Danske videnskabers Selskabs Skrifter. vols. i-v. Copenhagen, 1871-1799. 4to. Det kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Skrifter. Naturv. og Malhem. . Afd. viii, 3, 4, 5. x, 3-6, xii, 3. 1869-78. Historisk og Philos. Afd. iv, 1-3, 5, 6,10. 1868-75. Copenhagen. 4to. Oversigtover det Kgl. Danske Videnskabernes Nelskabs Forhandlinger. 1870, 3; 1873, 1874, 1. Copenhagen. 8vo. Description de la Cathédrale de Ribe en Jutland, par Jacob Helms. Année xvi. Plumes lithographiques. Copenhagen, 1870. Folio. Roskilde Domkirke Beo-Kreven, af J. Kornerup. Med 24 lithographerede, og Chemity Tauler. Copenhagen, 1877. Folio.
From the Turkish Government, Constantinople: ‘* Destour,” or collection of the laws and regulations of the empire. 6 vols. 8vo. “Saluame,” or official annuary. 8vo. (In Turkish.)
From the Hellenic Philological Society, Constantinople: Publications. 1871-79. Constantinople. 8vo. 9 vols, in Greek.
From the Von Malzan Natural History Museum, Waren, Mecklenburg Schwerin: Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg. Years i-xxx. Neubrandenburg, 1847-76. 8vo. And 21 natural-history pamphlets.
Fron Daniel Gehlert, Laval: Traité des maladies chirurgicales, par le Baron Boyer. vols. i-xi. Paris, 1814-22. 8vo. Nosographie chirurgicale, ou nouveaux élémens de pathologie, par M. le Chevalier Richerand. vols.i-iv. Paris, 1815. 8vo. Nouveaux élémens de physiologie, par A. Richerand. vols. i,ii. Paris,1814. 8vo. Nouveaux élémens de thérapeutique et de matitre médicale, par J. L. Alibert. Paris, 1877. 8vo. Concours (animaux réproducteurs, ete., 1857, 1860, 1862. Paris,. 1859-66. S8vo. Enquéteagricole. Deuxitme série. Enquétes départementale. 2° circonscription. Paris, 1867. 4to. (2 copies.) Agriculture francaise, par MM. les inspecteurs de Vagriculture. 6 vols. Paris, 1843-47, 8vo. Thome Sydenham. Opera medica. vols. i, il. Geneva, 1757. small 4to. Rapports au ministre sur la collection des documents inédits de Vhistoire de France. Paris, 1874. 4to. Rapport

<<<Page: 62>>>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a
sur VExposition universelle de 1855. Paris, 1857. S8vo. Rapport général sur les travaux du conseil @hygiene publique et de salubrité du département de la Seine, 1849-58. Paris, 1861. 4to. Lecons de médecine légale, par M. Orfila. 3 vols. Paris, 182J-23. 8vo. Travaux du conseil @hygiéne publique et de salubrité du département de la Gironde. Tome xx. Bordeaux, 1879. 8vo. Bulletin de la Société de Vindustrie de La Mayenne. vols. i-iv. Laval, 1853-68. Svo. Rapport sur Vasile de La Roche Gandon, 1869, 1870, 1873, 1874, 1875. Mayenne, 1870-76. S8vo. Traité d’assainissement industriel, par C. de Freycinet. Paris, 1870. Svo. L’Agriculture allemande, par Royer. Paris, 1847. 8vo. Documents statistiques concernant le choléra en 1854. Paris, 1862. 4to. Théorie nouvelle concernant les maladies concéreuses, ete., parJ.M.Gamet. i,ii. Paris,1772. 8vo. Bulletin dela Société @agriculture de Mayenne, 1859-68. Mayenne. 8vo. And 22 pamphlets.
From the Magnetical and Metecrological Observatory, Zi-ka-wel, China: Cursus litterature Sinice. vols.i,ii. Changhei, 1879. 8vo. LVinfanticide et ’ceuvre de la saint-enfance en Chine. Changhei, 1878. 4to. And 84 volumes of theological works, written in Chinese, and published by the Catholic mission of Kiangnan.
In the report of 1878, under this head, an explanation was given as to the causes of the large increase in the correspondence during that year. This statement will apply also to the period of 1879, with the exception that, while letters of condolence on account of the death of Professor Henry have necessarily been fewer, the number of communications relative to exchanges has exceeded that of any previous year, the increase in this direction being largely due to renewed activity in that department of the Institution, and especially in the international branch of the system.
Very important service has been rendered to the Smithsonian Institution, and to the National Museum under its charge, by an order from the Secretary of War authorizing the use of the Quartermaster’s Department in the transportation of collections, &c. As many of these come from regions where there is no estabiished mode of transportation, the benefit of this arrangement promises to be very great, and under it quite a number of boxes have been already transferred to Washington.
In previous years requests have frequently been received from foreign governments, especially those of Japan and China, and of Central and South America, for the selection of persons to carry on certain operations, particularly those relating to engineering and mining geology, nearly every year bringing at least one call of this character. To this the year 1879 furnished no exception, the Government of Salvador,

<<<Page: 63>>>

through the American minister, Mr. George Williamson, having asked to be supplied with an experienced geologist to explore the recently discovered gold fields of the state. Of course in such cases the advice of experts is always solicited, and several of these uniting on the name of Mr. Goodyear, a resident of California, and formerly connected with the geological survey of that State, he was selected for the mission in question, and has already entered upon his duties.
Communication from the Belgian Government in regard to a prize for the improvement of Belgian harbors.—On the 27th of December, 1879, the following communication was received from the chargé d’affaires of Bel-
gium :
“BELGIAN LEGATION, “ Washington, December 27, 1879.
‘Sire: Inclosed in a communication dated Mareh 29, 1875, Mr. Delfosse, the Belgian minister at Washington, transmitted to Prof. Joseph Henry a copy of a royal decree of December 14, 1574, instituting an annual prize of 25,000 franes for the purpose of encouraging intellectual labors in Belgium, and to induce foreigners to take part in this movement.
“According to the terms of article 12 of this decree, the prize to be contested for in an international competition will be awarded in 1881 for the best paper on the means of improving harbors situated on low and sandy coasts like those of Belgium.
“The government desires again to call the attention of foreigners to this subject, inviting them to compete with Belgian authors. To this end I shall be obliged to you if you will have a translation of the inclosed notice published in the annual report of the Smithsonian Institution, or in any other manner you may see fit, to insure it the greatest possible publicity in the United States.
“Accept, sir, the assurance of my most distinguished considerations,
“Gro. NEYT, “Chargé W@W Affaires of Belgium.
“Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD,
“Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.”
‘“ NoTice.—By a decree of December 14, 1874, His Majesty the King of the Belgians has instituted an annual prize of 25,000 frances ($5,000) for the purpose of encouraging intellectual labors.
“The prize to be contested for in an international competition will be awarded in 1881 for the best paper on the means of improving harbors situated on low and sandy coasts like those of Belgium.
“ Foreigners desiring to take part in the competition should send their papers, printed or manuscript, before the Ist of January, 1531, to the minister of the interior at Brussels.
“The manuscript which will receive the prize will be published in the

<<<Page: 64>>>

course of the year following that in which the award will have been made.
‘‘The latter is to be made by a jury appointed by the King of the Bel gians. This jury will be composed of seven members, three Belgians and four foreigners of different nationalities.”
In reply Mr. Neyt was informed that his letter would be published in the current report of the Institution, as being the place most likely to attract the attention of persons interested in the offer of a prize, and the fact that it was open to international competition.
Centennial Commission.—An application was received during the year from the executive council of the International Exhibition of 1876 to take charge of the archives of the exhibition, believed to be of great historical importance and value, and the permanent preservation of which is considered a matter of much importance. It is accordingly proposed to devote one of the fire-proof rooms in the new National Museum to that purpose; this being especially appropriate, since the building itself was erected to receive the exhibition of the United States made at Philadelphia, as also the large mass of donations of objects of art, industry, and economy presented to the United States by foreign nations.
Armenian History.—The Institution has received from the Archbishop of Trajanof, and general abbot of the Armenian Mekitrarian Institution of Venice, the following letter, dated November 11, 1879:
‘¢ Knowing the interest taken by your Institution in the diffusion of knowledge throughout the world, of which we have continued proofs in the gifts of books with which we are honored by you, I have the honor to submit to your kindness the following request:
“Considering the want of education of the eastern nations, who now, by new political conditions, awake to a new life of progress, and considering also their scanty means of partaking of all those benefits which are the enjoyment of civilized nations, especially in these years of great poverty, we have undertaken to procure means by which we might publish and distribute gratuitously useful books of general and popular knowledge. As this, our object, involves great expense, we hope that the societies of the Old and New Worlds will hasten to our assistance. We have already prepared in our monastery, in the Armenian language, a large work on Armenia, comprising a description connected with ancient and modern history of its towns, villages, public establishments, monuments, churches, monasteries, &c., a complete work which we hope will be very interesting, not only to Armenian scholars, but also to such orientalists as make a particular study of the old history of eastern nations. We are about to begin its publication, which wil: be with many maps and illustrations. This will be a difficult task, especially at this time; wherefore we hope that your Institution will fee’ the interest of such work and generously help us to publish it worthily.~

<<<Page: 65>>>

Manitoba Library.—The Institution has been informed of the organization of the *‘ Historical and Scientific Society of Manitoba,” at Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, for the purpose of collecting a library of books, a cabinet and museum, &¢., generally illustrative of the civil, religious, literary, and natural history of the lands and territories lying to the west and north of Lake Superior. Aid has been solicited in carrying out these objects by the donation of books and specimens, and the attention of the correspondents of the Institution is especially called to this request.
Zoological Society of London.—The services of the Smithsonian Institution were invoked by this Society to assist it in procuring some specimens of American mule deer (Cervus macrotis) two males and three females being desired. The commission was intrusted to the Hon. J. D. Caton, of Ottawa, IIL, a gentleman who is better acquainted with the American ruminants, deer, antelope, &c., than any other person, and who has written an admirable treatise upon them. Judge Caton was able to secure a fine specimen in his neighborhood, which was transmitted to the Central Park Menagerie, New York, for safe keeping, Mr. W. A. Conklin, the superintendent, very kindly agreeing to receive and ship anything of the kind which might be sent to him for the purpose. Messrs. Henderson & Co., the agents of the Anchor Line of steamers to Great Britain, with their usual liberality, offered to forward this animal free of charge; and it was consequently shipped per steamer Victoria on the 26th of February.
It was not deemed desirable by my predecessor that there should be any antagonism of interests by the duplication of collections in the different departments in Washington, and an arrangement was made, many years ago, by which all specimens of plants and matters derived from the vegetable kingdom, as well as all insects, were to be placed in charge of the Department of Agriculture, and everything relating to the human subject, such as crania, pathological preparations, &c., in that of the Army Medical Museum. These establishments, in return, were to deliver to the Institution all animals, minerals, and articles of ethnology or archeology received by them. This arrangement has been maintained, to mutual advantage. In a similar manner it was proposed to deposi5s acceptable works of art in the Corcoran Art Gallery, and quite a number of articles have already been placed there. During the past year the following deposits have been made. It is, of course, understood that these are not gifts but simply loans, to be returned whenever occasion requires.

<<<Page: 66>>>

List of articles transferred from the Smithsonian Institution to the Corcoran Art Gallery in 1879.
Museum No.
34776. Female sitting, with two infants ........-......-.. Plaster cast. 34777. Equestrian statue, Andrew Jackson ...... ........ Model. Atos USt. Ol, C Ol sb eLER EH OLCO) «5.061.042 aoe ae steeds Plaster cast. Satie bUSt.On Elon. Dixon Els, WOWIS). a2 <-2cs26,seri-ls = = '5'-!~ Plaster cast. 34780. Medallion of William Wilson :..........-..-..+-.Plaster cast. 34781. Statue of the Venus de Medici...................Plaster cast. 34782, Female recumbent, with a lamb ...... -........... Model. DLS Hema emia ee Male TISUNO S45 «Hoss 2 woo eo lee eee Model. SAO tems) WO MCIMONES A SEAM OIN OY «ase 2, 3/5, dar2 2. 3a2 Siold| SSEy 4 oh Sa Model. 34785. BS Orava cust Boley ayei aot sic oisy Said eee BEOe Geesc oe Model. 34786. Sleeping child ............ © vai Seine cts ba cikrises Model. e415. Marble medallion; Bacchante ... 222.422 022-2... Marble. 34788. Female bust, wife of Ferdinand Pettrich .......... Plaster cast. 34789. Bust of son of Ferdinand Pettrich .............. ... Plaster cast. d4(90. Statnette, Duke of Orleans «02.2... s5...2 0. oa cg eos: Plaster cast.
oA791., Statuette, Daniel O'Connell ... 2... 10.256. see see Plaster cast. 34792. Bust, bronzed, of Baron Cuvier..................-Plaster east. 34793. Bust of George Washington... . . PANGS Geant Plaster cast. 34794, Six small busts of F. Pettrich’s children........... Plaster cast. 34795, Statuette, boy holding a ewer ....... pbc os Shae ad Plaster cast.
fo tO Mie IMAC YCEOUENIN GS 305 42528 Sad eke oly cate als Plaster cast. 34797. Nude figure, “The hunter,” with birds or game .... Plaster cast. SAS vans Ot lLeG lear ss xssceeak Joel sh eee SIS alee .---Plaster cast. SAO SPDT SOLA IACO M/S 55 Wetted cals. ol asatys tle oid te Plaster cast: 34800. Bust of Ferdinand Pettrich ........... oyerrterstoaiaie Plaster cast. 34801. Bust of Gustav Adolph Pettrich.................. Plaster cast. SACU SUStOL DE MK AD OWS s:5 sits,6 sar) ested dels IRS aseder Plaster cast. 34803.. Bust of Benjamin Hallowell.... .......-..2.2-22Plaster cast. 34804, Nelson monument in London, model .............. Wood, &e.
Smithsonian Building—Many of the original plans of this building were either lost or greatly defaced in the fire of 1865, and it was thought desirable to have new drawings made to exhibit the details of the edifice, especially as the interior contruction had been considerably altered: first, in consequence of the falling down of the central part while in process of erection; and, second, as a consequence of the repairs required by the fire of 1865. These drawings have been carefully executed by Mr. Gorham, and, after being photographed, the originals have been deposited in a fire-proof safe. Upon these drawings have been plotted all the pipes connected with the water, gas, and steam apparatus, with the various stops and connections.
New Yale locks have been applied to all the rooms throughout the

<<<Page: 67>>>

building, and so arranged that while persons occupying a room, or suite of rooms, are provided with keys that will open them only, a single pass-key opens every door in the building; this, of course, being held only by the proper authority.
Other alterations have been made in the building for the purpose of increasing to the utmost its efficiency and reducing the expense of superintendence and maintenance. The document room has been enlarged, by the removal of numerous obstructions, and refitted. The eastern wing of the building, formerly occupied by Professor Henry as a dwelling-house, has been converted into a series of offices, and a door cut from the old document room to an adjacent apartment, which is now used for the reception and classification of a portion of the exchanges.
Eleven large fire-proof doors have been placed in the building to isolate the different wings and floors.
The laboratory has been rearranged and many other improvements have been made. These were commenced late in the autumn of 1878 and finished in the spring of 1879. It is believed that the building is now in a condition of thorough efficiency and adaptation to its scientific purposes.
Art building and laboratory.—The provision by Congress for an exhibition by the United States Government at the Centennial Exposition, at Philadelphia, in 1876, made it necessary for the Smithsonian Institution to construct a special building for the purpose of preparing its share of the display, and a small edifice was accordingly erected on the grounds for the purpose of giving increased accommodation to the modelers, artists, and photographer. This building has been in use for nearly five years, and has rendered excellent service by the facilities if has afforded. It is, however, now inadequate to its object, and in the new museum building, provision has been made for the various departments referred to. Some suitable occupation will be found for the old building.
Armory building.— Another building in charge of the Smithsonian Institution is that formerly occupied as an armory by the militia of the District of Columbia, but which, ceasing to discharge that function, was placed by Congress in the care of tue Institution for the storage of its material which could not be received in the present edifice. This armory building, the dimensions of which are one hundred feet by fifty, is very massive in construction and contains four floors, at present entirely filled with boxes containing the Centennial collections which are to constitute the material for exhibition in the new National Museum building.
The surveys of Professors Hayden and Powell having been discontinued by order of Congress, a portion of the public property belonging to them has been stored in the Armory building and Smithsonian Institution during the past year, Mr. King, the director of the new geological survey, making use of such of these materials as he requires.

<<<Page: 68>>>

Among the contributions or donations to the Institution, during the year, are several that do net belong directly under the head of natural history, but of which mention should be made.
Mr. F. B. Sanborn, agent of the Hydropneumatie Fire Extinguishing Company, presented to the Institution a specimen of his apparatus in working order. This has been placed where it will be most available in the very undesirable contingency of a fire in the building.
The Herring Fire-proof Safe Company, of New York, some months ago intimated its willingness to present to the Institution a first-class specimen of its work, and, as among the specimens in the National Museum are some masses of native gold, precious stones, and other valuable property, it was thought best to request that the offer be supplied in the form of a safe suitable for exhibiting such objects.’
A plan of asafe was accordingly prepared with doors on opposite sides and when opened revealing series of glass shelves, inclosed and secured by plate glass fronts; the whole apparatus to be seven feet high, four feet wide, and two feet deep. This was put under construction by the company, has been completed, and is now ready for transmission to Washington whenever called for. It is proposed to use this as part of the fixtures of the new National Museum.
Another contribution of a somewhat similar character was made to the Institution by the Yale Lock Company, who constructed and presented a post-office box for the use of the employés. In addition to the clerks and assistants of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum, there are a number of gentlemen having rooms in the building, who, although receiving no salary, render important service in the supervision of collections and identification of specimens. Nearly all these persons receive their mail at the Institution, and it has heretofore been difficult to properly subdivide and place such matter in the hands of those for whom it was destined. Under the new arrangement each individual now has his own box, with a key which alone will open it, and the mail as received is properly assorted in the boxes. -This post-office box constitutes quite an ornamental piece of furniture, and supplies the desired accommodations.
National Academy of Sciences.—For several years after its organization the annual meetings of the National Academy of Sciences were held at the Smithsonian Institution, although, even with the limited number usually attending, it was difficult to furnish the necessary accommodations. In view of the increasing number of members of the academy, and of the visitors attending the reading of papers, it was concluded to make other arrangements for 1879, and, accordingly, the pastor and vestry of All Souls’ Church having kindly consented to grant the use

<<<Page: 69>>>

of their new and very convenient edifice for the purpose, the meeting was held therein on the 14th-I8th of April, 1879, the accommodations being entirely satisfactory. A similar favor will probably be asked of the church for 1880; but it is thought that with the completion of the new National Museum building a suitable room can be furnished in it by 1881, so that the academy will again have its headquarters under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution.
Anthropological Society of Washington—An Anthropological Society has lately been organized in the District of Columbia for the purpose of bringing together those especially interested in the study of man, and the use of a room in the Institution was cheerfully accorded, on its application. Here meetings are regularly held every other week throughout the year, and the large and increasing attendance shows the appreciation of the subject in Washington. No similar American society appears to be in a more flourishing condition or more earnest in its investigations.
Lectures.—The Regents’ room was also accorded to Prof. C.S. Hastings, of the Johns Hopkins University, for a special course of lectures on astronomical physics. This was attended by the gentlemen connected with the Observatory, Nautical Almanac, Coast Survey, and other scientific establishments in the city.
It is proper to mention the sudden death, by apoplexy, of Mr. Tobias N. Woltz, on the 9th day of March. He had been connected with the Institution, as master mechanic and superintendent of the building for twenty-two years; was always ciligent, industrious, and faithful, and, as he left nothing to his family, I would recommend that, on account of his long and useful services to the Institution, an allowance be made for his funeral expenses.
The report for 1877 contained a notice of the death of Mr. Fielding B. Meek, a gentleman who, although not salaried by the Institution, made the building his home for many years, while engaged in his specialty, as a paleontologist, with the government surveys. Mr. Meek died intestate, and letters of administration were granted to Professor Henry upon his property. Diligent search was made in various directions for several years for heirs, but without success. Lately, however, a distant relative has appeared to claim the estate, and the matter is now before the coarts.
The library and notes of Mr. Meek were purchased by the Institution to sezare them for the use of paleontological students.
Among the col.aborators of the Institution whose death has occurred during the past year is Dr. JAMmS AITKEN MEIGS, of Philadelphia. He
was born in Philadelphia on the 31st of July, 1829, received his educa

<<<Page: 70>>>

tion in the public schools of that city, graduated at the Jefferson Medical College in 1851, and devoted himself with zeal and energy to the practice of his profession. He was professor of climatology and physiology at the Franklin Institute for eight years, and during this period lectured frequently on physiological and ethnological subjects before various associations in our prominent cities.
In 1857 he accepted the chair of institutes of medicine in the Philadelphia College of Medicine; and was, after a few years, transferred to the Pennsylvania College. His lectures on physiology attracted much attention, as no sustained systematic attempt to teach physiology experimentally had been made before in either of the four medical schools then existing in Philadelphia. In 1868 he was elected to the Jefferson Medical College to succeed the late Prof. Robley Dunglison, on the recommendation of the highést medical authorities in this country and Hurope. He was an active member of the leading scientific societies ; contributed numerous and valuable papers to medical and other journals. He arranged and classified the extensive collection of human crania in the Academy of Natural Sciences, and prepared a systematic catalogue of the collection. He also devoted much time to physiological and ethnological researches, and in all his relations in life was eminent for purity of character, clearness and vigor of intellect, and ardor alike in the pursuit of knowledge and imparting instruction to others. He died in Philadelphia on the 9th of November, 1879.
The act of Congress of 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, placed under its charge, in proportion as suitable arrangements could be made for their reception, all objects of natural history, mineralogy, and geology, antiquities, &c., belonging to the United States. At the time of the passage of the act the government collections consisted essentially of the objects gathered by the celebrated exploring expedition of Capt. Charles Wilkes, which even to the present time has been by far the most extensive and exhaustive enterprise of its kind conducted by any government. Its results would have been very much larger but for the loss of one of the vessels, the ‘‘ Peacock,” off the mouth of the Columbia River. In this were contained an immense number of articles from the islands of the Pacific Ocean and from the coast of Oregon and California.
The objects brought back to Washington were placed in charge of the Commissioner of Patents, and an appropriation was made regularly by Congress for their maintenance and superintendence.
In 1856 the completion of the central part of the Smithsonian building and the need by the Patent Office of the space in its building occupied by the collections of the Wilkes’ expedition, brought about an arrangement
S. Mis. 54-———5

<<<Page: 71>>>

between the Committee on Patents in the House of Representatives and the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, by which the latter agreed to accept the custody of the collections, on condition that the necessary appropriations for their maintenance in the Smithsonian building should be continued by Congress, to include also the expense of the construction of cases and other requirements. This was carried into effect, and in 1857 the government collections were transferred ; since which time they have been in the custody of the Institution. Prior to that date, however, large numbers of government and other specimens had been received and cared for at the Smithsonian Institution, but not displayed. These, with the Wilkes’ collection and a few others received with them, may be considered as marking the beginning of the National Museum.
The institution now points with great satisfaction to the progress that has been accomplished in about twenty-two years, at the end of which time one of the largest and best appointed collections of natural history and ethnology extant has been developed.
Coming now to the consideration of the condition and history of the National Museum for the year 1879, and beginning with its increase, the general nature of the additions to the Museum during the year will be readily gathered by reference to the alphabetical list of donations and the memoranda in regard to explorations. It may be noted that the donations in 1879 very greatly exceeded those of any previous year, amounting to 1,173 separate entries, while those of 1878 were 1,075. A large portion of the number consists of contributions made by the fishing vessels of Gloucester, Mass., as referred to more particularly under the head of operations of the United States Fish Commission. The additions to the Museum are derived from four principal sources, viz: 1. Government exploring and surveying parties. 2. Explorations and researches of the Smithsonian Institution. 3. Miscellaneous contributions. 4. By exchanges of specimens. A fifth element of increase in most museums is by purchase. This, however, amounts to very little in the case of the National Museum, and is for the most part confined to an occasional specimen of archeology needed to fill a gap.
As the Institution has not been hitherto prepared to undertake the gathering of universal collections, but has confined its efforts more particularly to the representation of the animal and mineral kingdom of the New World, there has been less opportunity to increase its display by exchanges, while its own collections from government expeditions and by contributions of its correspondents covered the greater part of what is absolutely desired. The opportunity of extensive exchanges is still open, however, and may possibly be resorted to hereafter.
Among the more important collaborators in the way of exchanges may be mentioned the educational authorities of Japan, who have placed the National Museum under direct obligations by the transmission

<<<Page: 72>>>

of well-arranged and preserved collections of the natural history of that country. The most important of these is a series of the fishes, partly preserved in alcohol and partly dried. These came in excellent condition and has been accurately identified by Japanese naturalists attached tothe Museum. Already over two hundred species have been furnished, constituting an extremely valuable means of investigating the fishes of . the North Pacific coast. Their particular importance is in their relationship in illustration of the ichthyology of the waters of the western coast of the United States.
These specimens were furnished by the Mombusho or Educational Museum of Tokio, which has also supplied a large series of minerals and rocks of the country.
A very valuable collection of the fishes of Norway was presented to the Institution by the University of Christiania, as prepared by Professor Esimark, at the request of Mr. Robert Collett, a correspondent of the Institution. These are particularly acceptable as furnishing the means of comparison with the many species obtained from the off-shore fishinggrounds by American fishermen.
From the National Museum of the City of Mexico some very interesting articles have been received in exchange, principally of an archological character.
An important exchange of birds with the American Museum of Natural History in New York will be found mentioned further on.
The additions to the museum from the operations of government parties, or those fitted out in whole or in part by the Smithsonian Institution, will be found ina brief mention under the head of Explorations, The details, as also those of the miscellaneous contributions, are given in the alphabetical list of donors and their donations.
Mammals.—The collections of mammals sent by Mr. Turner and Mr. Nelson, from Alaska, and by Lieutenant Wheeler, of the Engineers, from Colorado, &c., are most important.
Birds.—Of birds, an extremely valuable donation of 295 species and 318 specimens was made by the American Museum of Natural History in New York; these being for the most part either specimens not represented in the National Museum or in better condition than any it had been able to procure. <A suitable return will be made in duplicate birds and other objects.
The collections of birds made by Mr. Nelson and Mr. Turner, already referred to under the head of Explorations, are of very great interest, embracing, as they do, large numbers of excelient specimens.
Lieutenant Wheeler is also to be mentioned in this series for his deposit of many valuable skins beautifully prepared by Mr. Henshaw, constituting part of the collections of the United States Gvographical Survey of the One-hundreth Meridian.
The birds collected by Mr. Ridgway at Cobb’s Island, mentioned under the head of explorations, were also of much value.

<<<Page: 73>>>

Some specimens were collected on the Grand Banks by the fishermen, and by Messrs. Osborne and Scudder, which are also noteworthy.
Several rare specimens of Texas birds were obtained by Mr. Ragsdale.
Reptiles—A miscellaneous collection of reptiles was received from various sources, more especially of living serpents, salamanders, turtles, and lizards, from many different contributors. These came in part from Mr. Frank W. Hayward, of South Carolina, Mr. 8. T. Walker, of Florida, Dr. Lightburne, of Fort Mohave, and many others, and have served a . most admirable purpose for making the series of plaster casts of American reptiles, which is superior in interest and extent to anything extant in public museums at home or abroad.
To Mr. Edward Newton, colonial secretary of Jamaica, we owe a living specimen of the yellow boa, a rare serpent of great size, of which admirable copies have been made.
Fishes.—The collections in this department, as might be expected, from the relations of the United States Fish Commission to the Smithsonian Institution, have included many new and rare species from the Atlanticand Pacifie Oceans, the Gulf of Mexico, the lakes, and the interior waters. The amount of the collections is entirely too great to attempt a specification, although among the most important may be mentioned a series furnished by the Museum of the University of Christiania of seventy-one species of Norwegian fishes, and the collection from Japan, from the Mombusho Museum, already referred to under the head of Exchanges.
To Mr. E. G. Blackford, the enterprising fish-dealer of Fulton Market, New York, the Institution has for years been under many obligations for his zeal in collecting all the rare fishes that came to the New York market, and forwarding such of them to the Institution as he had reason to believe were desirable. Many new species, and others of great rarity have been thus selected by Mr. Blackford, who has also rendered most important service in receiving various consignments of fish packed in ice from various parts of the country and even from Europe, and in repacking and forwarding them to Washington.
To the masters and crews of the Gloucester fishing-fleet most special acknowledgments are due for their earnest desire to place at the command of the government the means of information in regard to the fields of labor traversed by them. A full statement of these contributions will be found in the list of donations to the United States Fish Commission.
The United States Fish Commission itself was stationed at Provincetown, Mass., during the last summer, and secured great numbers of fishes.
Marine invertebrates—Of marine invertebrates, by far the most important collections are those furnished by the Gloucester fishing-fleet, referred to under the head of Fishes,and by the United States Fish Commission at Provincetown.

<<<Page: 74>>>

The labors of Dr. White in the Northern Pacific also resulted in an important contribution.
Insects.—No extensive collections of insects came to hand during the year; perhaps the most important being that from Central Mexico, furnished by Professor Dugés. These, as before, have been sent to the United States Agricultural Department.
Plants.—Various packages of plants, of no great importance, have been received during the year, and, like the insects, have been transferred to the Department of Agriculture.
Minerals—Many important collections of minerals, geological specimens, &e., have been received during the vear; a valuable contribution being that already referred to, as sent by the Mombusho Museum of Japan, consisting of what professes to be a complete series of the minerals and rocks of that country.
Mr. Thomas Donaldson, a member of the United States Land Commission, while visiting the West in connection with his duties, made a large collection of minerals and ores from Leadville, Deadwood, and other parts of the country; the whole filling some fifteen large boxes. This colleetion constitutes a very desirable supplement to the immense series of asimilar character gathered by him at the request of the Smithsonian Institution in 1874, 1875, and 1876, constituting the larger part of the great display of the mineral wealth of the country made under the auspices of the Institution in the government building at the International Exhibition of 1876.
The administration of the Museum by the various assistants employed during the year has been entirely satisfactory. The work has been under the special charge of Mr. G. Brown Goode, having as collaborators: Dr. Charles Rau, Dr. E. Foreman, and Mr. I. H. Cushing, for the department of anthropology; Dr. F. M. Endlich, curator of mineralogy; Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of ornithology; Dr. T. H. Bean, curator of ichthyology ; Dr. H. C. Yarrow, assisted by Mr. 8. C. Brown, curator of herpetology; Dr. Elliott Coues, curator of mammalogy; Mr. William H. Dall, curator of marine and aquatic invertebrates. Mr. Dall, Dr. Coues, and Dr. Yarrow performed their services without any compensation.
All the collections, as received, have been properly treated for preservation from destruction by insects or otherwise, and entered in the several record books; the total number of entries for the year 1879 being 11,552.
The distribution of duplicate specimens, already referred to, has also been carried on on a large scale. The details will be found in the appended tables.
As usual, the material of the institution has been made use of by experts and specialists for the prosecution of their researches. Although it is most convenient to have this done at the institution, yet wherever the interest of science requires it, collections are sent to any part of the world,

<<<Page: 75>>>

Among the more important of these researches are those of Mr. George N. Lawrence, Mr. Ridgway, and Dr. Coues, upon American birds; of Mr. J. A. Allen, of Cambridge, upon the mammals; of Professor Gill, Mr. Goode, Dr. Bean, and Professor Jordan, upon the fishes; and Prof. Edward D. Cope, upon the reptiles.
The marine invertebrates collected by the United States Fish Commission are in process of investigation by Prof. A. E. Verrill, assistegl by Mr. Oscar Harger, Mr. Sanderson Smith, Prof. 8. J. Smith, and Mr. Rh. Rathbun.
A series of skulls and skeletons of the Central American tapir was sent to Mr. Edward Alston, of London, for a critical examination. By such assignments, facts of more or less importance can be obtained ; and it is in this way that the Institution best carries out the will of its founder for “ the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
An immense mass of duplicate material belonging to the National Museum has been used in the way of a distribution of an educational series of objects to various colleges, academies, and learned societies of the United States, special provision having been made for the same by act of Congress.
For a detailed account of the measures taken to secure additional accommodations for the collections belonging to the National Museum, especially those gathered for the Philadelphia Exhibition and obtained from other panties at its close, reference is made to the reports of 1876, 1877, and 1878. It will here be sufficient to say that after several fruitless efforts, Congress, in the sundry civil bill of March 3, 1879, made an appropriation for a National Museum, in the following terms:
‘Tor a fire-proof building for the use of the National Museum, three hundred feet square, .o be erected under the direction and supervision of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, in accordance with the plans now on file with the Joint Committee of Public Buildings and Grounds, on the southeastern portion of the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars; said building to be placed east of the Smithsonian Institution, leaving a roadway between it and the latter of not less than fifty feet, with its north front on a line with the south face of the buildings of the Agricultural Department and of the Smithsonian Institution; and all expenditures for the purposes herein mentioned, not including anything for architectural plans, shall be audited by the proper officers of the Treasury Department.” :
The estimates had been furnished by Messrs. Cluss & Schulze, consulting architects, as to the cost of such a building, and upon their representations the sum of $250,000 was asked for and granted, with the understanding that it would be sufficient for its purpose, although no limitation to that effect was made by Congress. As soon as possible

<<<Page: 76>>>

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. yal
after the passage of the act, the whole subject was carefully reviewed, and the accuracy of the estimates confirmed by Mr. Edward Clark, Architect of the Capitol, and General M. C. Meigs, of the Army. Contracts were then entered into, and as labor and material were at the time at the very lowest figures, several of the estimates were found to be greater than the amount of the contract entered into. Owing to the exceptionally moderate winter and the freedom from rain and storms, only fourteen days were lost during the year by non-preventable causes. For a full report of the details connected with the construction of the building reference may be made to the report of the National Museum Building Commission, herewith communicated. There is every reason to believe that the whole work will be accomplished within the appropriation, by June next.
No provision was made in the appropriation by Congress for the construction of the necessary cases, but an estimate has been presented, which it is hoped will be granted, so that this work may be started with the beginning of the next fiscal year. The period of complete installation of collections on hand, and the opening of the building to the public, will depend upon the amount of the appropriation and the rapidity with which the contractors may complete their work. The new building will be devoted more particularly to industrial exhibits, intended to show the animal and mineral resources of the United States and their practical applications to the wants or luxuries of man. The department of anthropology will also be largely represented. How far natural history can find a place in the building will depend upon the space required for the collections mentioned. It is confidently expected that this building when finished will be one of the most attractive objects of the kind extant, and but little inferior to the celebrated museums of foreign countries.
Reference has been made in many previous reports to the part taken by the United States Fish Commission in the investigation of the condition of the sea fisheries and in the propagation of food-fishes in the United States, your Secretary having been appointed by the President, in 1871, to the duty of carrying out the objects designated by a law of Congress in the same year. Serving without any compensation and receiving simply his own board and necessary personal expenses while actually engaged in the work, he has been obliged, in the increasing extent of his Fish Commission work, to devote to it more and more of the hours that would be usually allowed for leisure and recreation, his prime duty being, of course, to the Smithsonian Institution.
The work of the Commission is divided into two branches: First, an inquiry into the condition of the fisheries on the Atlantic and Pacific and Great Lake coasts ; and second, the propagation of useful food-tishes

<<<Page: 77>>>

Under the head of “inquiry” the summers of successive years have been spent at various stations from the Bay of Fundy to Long Island Sound, and the information obtained has been published in the annual reports of the Fish Commission. The information obtained by this commission was of great importance to the United States Government at the Halifax convention.
For the work of 1879, Provincetown, at the extreme end of Cape Cod, was selected as the central station, and with the assistance of the steamer “Speedwell,” under the command of Capt. Z. L. Tanner, a successful investigation was prosecuted in regard to the natural history and physies of the adjacentseas. The steamer, with its crew, were furnished by Hon. R. W. Thompson, Secretary of the Navy, in accordance with the law of Congress to that effect. It may not be out of place to mention in this connection that of the departments of the government that of the Navy has been especially liberal in its construction of the law, and has rendered the greatest possible aid in the work of the Commission.
The labors of the commission in 1879 were made directly conducive to the success of the efforts in connection with the census, as already referred to.
An incident of the summer’s work was, as before, the collection of vast numbers of specimens of marine animals, a full series of which will be reserved for the National Museum, and the duplicates arranged for distribution to various educational establishments throughout the country. At the present time, of all the means of instruction in geueral natural history—a subject attracting much attention in schools and colleges—there are none more difficult to obtain than objects illustrating the botany and zoology of the ocean. The expense of the apparatus for securing such specimens is far beyond anything but what the most favored persons can command. On this account it was thought proper to do the work as far as possible for the whole country as well as for the National Museum, and numerous objects of this kind have been obtained and are now being properly arranged and packed under competent direction for distribution. Many sets of these will be in this way scattered throughout the country, to the very great advantage of science.
One material result of the work of the past summer has been the discovery of an entirely new food-fish off the coast, both genus and species being previously unknown to science. This is the Lepholatilus chameleonticeps, or tile-fish. A bank where this fish is found was discovered near Noman’s Land, where it can be taken in any desired quantity; some specimens obtained weighing as much as ninety pounds. As the fish has very much the same general food characteristics as the cod, there is reason to believe that in time it will become an imporant article of trade. F
A great extension was also established in the distribution of the new fish discovered in June, 1877, off the coast of Gloucester, namely, the pole flounder, or Glyptocephalus cynoglossus. This is a species of flat-fish,

<<<Page: 78>>>

the occurrence of which along our shores was entirely unknown at the time, not being taken on the trawls of the fishermen, while at the same time it is possibly the most abundant species of its family on the coast. In the smallness of its mouth, which prevents its being captured 3y the hook, and the lack of use of the beam-trawl as a fisherman’s engine, are to be found the explanation of the ignorance of the fishermen in regard to the species.
The second division of the work of the United States Fish Commission, that of the multiplication and distribution of useful food-fishes, has also been carried on during the year on a greatly enlarged scale.
Special work was done at Avoca, in Albemarle Sound, in connection with the shad and fresh-water herring, many millions being hatched out, of which the greater part were distributed to the interior waters of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and other States. A very important extension of the work consisted in the successful experiment of the artificial propagation of the striped bass or rockfish, a species of great economical importance, but which had hitherto eluded all our search during its spawning season.
The second station for the hatching of shad was established as in previous years at a point a short distance below Havre de Grace, on the Susquehanna River, where also many millions were produced. About half of the number were planted in the Susquehanna itself, for the purpose of keeping up the supply. The remainder were distributed to. numerous States throughout the Union.
The station on the McCloud River, California, for procuring the eggs of the California salmon, was efficiently worked by Mr. Livingston Stone, the superintendent. About eight millions of eggs were obtained and distributed, for the most part, to the commissioners of the different States. One hundred thousand eggs were presented to each of the governments of France, Holland, and Germany, where the California salmon is greatly appreciated from its promise of furnishing a very important addition to the food resources of Europe.
Arrangements are now being made on the McCloud River for the hatching of the California trout, which has some peculiarities whick render it desirable for introduction to the Eastern States.
Other stations were at Bucksport, Me., for the propagation of the seasalmon, and at Grand Lake Stream for land-locked salmon, both being in charge of Mr. Charles G. Atkins, and furnishing their quota of material for the multiplication of food-fishes.
After several years of effort, the commission has been able to obtain a stock of German carp for distribution. This fish promises to be of great economical value, and the demand for it is very great, numerous applications being received every day from all parts of the country. About ten thousand have already been distributed, at the rate of about eight pairs to each applicant, meeting but a small part of the demand. The stock for the year 1880, it is hoped, will supply this in a measurable degree.

<<<Page: 79>>>

The experiments initiated at Gloucester in 1878, looking towards the artificial propagation of the cod, were carried to completion in February, 1879, about one and a half millions of fish having been hatched out and placed in Gloucester Harbor. The experiment was in every way satisfactory, and the experience gained will be of the utmost benefit in the future. The harbor of Gloucester, during the past summer, was full of young codfish hatched out in this way, presenting a palpable feature of the work, which was appreciated by all the inhabitants of that city.
For the purpose of more efficiently conducting the work of the commission in connection with the shad, herring, striped bass, codfish, and other species, an appropriation of $45,000 was made in March last by Congress for the construction of a suitable steamer, which should serve as a floating: hatching establishment. This vessel is nearly completed, and will, it is hoped, be ready for the work of 1880.
Mr. Newton P. Scudder was sent, during the summer of 1879, to study the halibut fisheries on the coast of Greenland. For a cnet of years the Holsteinburg Banks, a short distance south of Disco, Greenland, were visited by from one to seven vessels from Gloucester, annually. These vessels remained three or four months on the fishing-ground, and salted down in their holds the halibut which they caught, and which were brought home to be prepared in the smoke-houses.
Mr. Scudder sailed from Gloucester on the schooner Bunker Hill, June 10, 1879, and on his return arrived in Gloucester September 17. He secured a fine collection of Arctie marine birds, also, an interesting series of Arctic fishes and invertebrates, and some valuable ethnological specimens.
Mr. H. L. Osborne was sent to the Grand Banks to study the methods of the deep-sea cod fishery of that region. He left Gloucester on the schooner Victor, July 10, and returned home in the latter part of October. His natural history collections were quite extensive, especially of the different species of mollusks; and he has in preparation an elaborate report upon the methods of this fishery and the characteristics of the fishermen and the results of his natural history exploration.
Mr. J. P. Gordy made a short cruise on a Gloucester mackerel schooner, and has presented a report upon the mental and moral characteristics of the fishermen and upon the methods of this fishery. He returned to Gloucester August 3, after an absence of three weeks.
In the previous reports of the Census Department, the almost ludicrous incompleteness of that portion relating to the fisheries has been a matter of notoriety; and it was with much pleasure that I received an invitation, as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and United States Fish Commissioner, from General Walker, Superintendent of the Census, to suggest a plan by which this defect ais be remedied. At

<<<Page: 80>>>

General Walker’s request, I undertook the work of organizing that department, and of employing all the machinery of the United States Fish Commission in its behalf.
Mr. G. Brown Goode, the curator of the National Museum, was assigned to the special work of direction, and with the assistance of the regular force of the commission and persons especially employed at the expense of the census appropriation, a systematic plan of operations was laid out and is now being carried into effect. Experienced and trained observers have been sent to different portions of the coast as canvassers afl investigators, it being the intention that every fishing village on the Atlantic, Pacific, Gulf, and Great Lake coasts shall be properly canvassed. Numerous circulars have been sent out to the interior, asking for information.
For the purpose of better supervising the collation of data and the tabulation of results, accommodations have been furnished in the east wing of the Smithsonian building, where the parties have been at work, under the direction of Mr. Goode. Mr. Charles W. Smiley is in charge of the office, with a number of clerks detailed by General Walker for his assistance. The principal canvassers at work in the field are Mr. R. E. Earll, for the New England coast generally; Mr. CharlesG. Atkins, having special charge of the statistics of the salmon, herring, alewife, and smelt fisheries in Maine; Mr. Silas Stearns, assisted by Mr. 8. T. Walker, for the Gulf of Mexico; Col. Marshall McDonald, for the shad fisheries of Virginia and the southern coast; Mr. R. T. Edmunds, the oyster and fresh-fish trade of the Chesapeake Bay and Baltimore; Mr. B. Phillips, for the fish manufacturing industry of New York; Mr. L. Kunnlien, for the fisheries of the Great Lakes; and Prof. D. S. Jordan, for the fisheries of the Pacifie Coast. In addition to these, Mr. Ernest Ingersoll has general charge of the statistics of the oyster trade of the whole eastern coast. All these gentlemen have been at work for a greater or less time, some of them since July last, and have transmitted to the office in Washington an immense amount of information.
It is confidently expected that the report of General Walker on the subject of the fisheries will be not inferior in any respect to other special reports for which he has made arrangements.
In addition to the collecting of statistics, the employés of this division have been instructed to obtain illustrations of the fisheries, such as specimens or models of fishing-gear, nets, boats, traps, &c.; samples of prepared fish and the like; they are also gathering a great deal of information relating to the natural history of the marine and fresh-water animals.
A very important corollary of this work is the information it will furnish for use in any future arbitration between the United States and the British Provinces in regard to the value of its coast fisheries. It is well known that the cause of the United States, at the meeting in Halifax in 1877, went almost by default in consequence of the absence

<<<Page: 81>>>

of this information. While the Canadians possessed the fullest data on the subject of the fisheries, as the result of many years inquiry, the United States had nothing whatever but what was gathered with speeial reference to the emergency. The results gathered in connection with the census of 1880 will, it is hoped, be tabulated and published by the time this is needed for diplomatic use, and it will be of inestimable advantage in strengtheniug any position that the American Government may take in reference to the nature of the American fisheries,
Respectfully submitted.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Secretary Smithsonian Institution. WASHINGTON, D. C., January, 1880.

<<<Page: 82>>>

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the United States National Museum at the close of the years 1878 and 1879, respectively.
| These tables show only what has been recorded or entered in the detailed catalogue,
constituting but a small proportion of the whole. ]
Class.
VIII SY] Seee rers ere tee me eeye ae = eras nea eines ein noe oe ER me ea IBY) 3 ccs eect ey uk ee es Spt en EECA rae on eS Se Reptiles and amphibians Le vUSTOVES) Se OE es ay A cic eS A ete ye EL ec ee ae Le Skeletons and skulls Eggs
wee ee eee et ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee
PACT TNO NU CLS esp eee ee ate reas ese epee cs Pe i a ea a Oe Mollusks 1 OEY 6 LG SYST Re is eee Beeld a Taleo fe er ea Invertebrate fossils IW GT YES RAINS, 2 ele i eae ire She eer ara RAN OL OR EAU SRD Bhs Site 24 bn Ethnological specimens
Se ee ee i ee ee Se ee ee ee
STOUR NS a Aas 5 Ae See ere Sarna ae inert Sa ue Rm te REDS Increase for 1879
1878.
13, 069 76, 666
1879.
13, 144 79, 093 10, 407 23, 561 16, 306 18, 049 2, 324 100
33, 169 3, 230 8, 075 20, 450 39, 017
266, 925 11, 552
Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end
of 1879. Total to the end of | Distribution during | Total to 1878. 1879. 1 Class. Species.| Specimens. | Species.| Specimens. | Species. | Skeletons and skulls £40 1, 878 46 46 586 Mammalsseeere sees 2, 167 A tet al ete sol ROR SGE CS BoE > 2, 167 ITO Sees saw acee eee 2715 eile 42,014 223 304 | 27,940 Hepiiloss 4.05 5se ee 2,356 3, 840 210 318 | 2,566 NISHES 251 -:5.5-:2 Saas 6, 145 9, 651 298 25 | 6,443 Nests and eggs of ind S+2 ee Sle eee 7, 906 19, 350 328 D161, |) 85234 MMSE CUS 21-252 scene 4,308 9,741 230 350 | 4,538 Crustaceans .......|| Esty 2, 664 10 Del O97, Slelllishsytos o(ooasione: 90, 548 197, 347 154 481 | 90,702 Radiates-... 2-5-2. 593 UE8BY IBcpgeesallbeeococaaoad 593 Other marine invertebrates .....--| 1,892 5, 225 15 LSM ls 907 Plants and packages OfjiseedS:s.5< 203252 | 29, 943 51, 984 499 877 | 30, 442 IW OsSIIS ie oso eaeee 4,391 LO SUB ees eee eae ae 4390 Minerals and rocks..| 9,105 16, 869 901 4,538 | 10, 006 Ethnological speciMINES Meet seca io Ose 5, 268 226 226 | 3,849 Diatomaceous earths (packages) ....---874 1, 628 300 300 | 1,174 Mota se cece \193, 195 383, 592 | 3,440 8, 966 196, 635
the end of 379,
Specimens.
1, 924 4, 822 42, 318 4,158 9, 976 20, 511 10, 091 2, 689 197, 828 793
5, 240 52, 861 10,518 21, 407 5, 494 1, 925
392, 558

<<<Page: 83>>>

Adney, W. H. G. Specimens of shells and fossils ; from Virginia.
Alasku Commercial Company, San Francisco, Cal. Two heads of sealion (Rosmarus obesus); from Nushagak, Alaska.
Alden, Capt. Oscar W., and crew of schooner Andrew Leighton. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Aldernethy, George. Samples of coal; from Washington Territory.
Allen, OC. A. Two specimens Anser rossii (purchased) ; from California.
Allen, George IK. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission. )
Anderson, Capt. Charles, and crew of schooner Alice G. Wonson, Gloucester, Mass. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Anderson, John. Insect; from Texas.
Anderson, W. W. Small collection of stone implements; from Sumter County, South Carolina.
Andrews, Miss Fannie. Box of stone implements and minerals; from Georgia.
Ardendall, Edward, schooner Sea Foam. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Aspinwall, Dr. F. EL. Specimens of arrow-heads; from New York and Ohio.
Atkins, Charles G. Specimen of togue (Cristivomer namaycush) ; from Grand Lake Stream, Maine.
Augir, Viola. Two mounted specimens of birds; from Illinois.
Baird, G. W., P. A. Engineer, U.S. N. Specimens of Meduse ; taken at Ville Franche, France.
Baird, Prof. 8S. F. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Babcock, A. I. Specimens of birds (Cyanura cristata and Siulia sialis), and red squirrel (Sciwrus hudsonius); from Massachusetts.
Baden, George P. Living milk-snake (Ophibolus doliatus); from Washington, D. C.
Baker, J.D. Specimen of insect; from Perry County, Pennsylvania.
Barker, H. I. Wiving specimens of glass-snake (Opheosaurus ventralis), turtles (Pseudemys scabra), and amphiumas (Amphiuma means); from South Carolina.
Barringer, A. L. Wiving snakes (Bascanion constrictor, Ophibolus rhom-
bomaculatus and Storeria dekayi) and terrapins (Cistudo elausa) ; from North Carolina. Bates, W. H. H. Specimens of minerals ; from Maine.
Bauermeister, Rev. William. Box of minerals; from Indiana. Beach, H. Box of stone implements, pottery, &c., from Mlinois and Wisconsin.

<<<Page: 84>>>

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. to
Beal, William. Two living bull-snakes (Pityophis melanoleucus); from Tennessee.
Bean, Barton A. Unfinished dulled stone implements; from Pennsylvania.
Bean, Dr. T. H. Box of Indian implements and terrapin(Cistudo clausa) ; trom Pennsylvania.
Beauchamp, Rev. William M. A collection of shells; from Western New York.
Belding, L. Five boxes of birds-skins, eggs, and dried plants; from California.
Belknap, Tieut. 0., U. S. N. Samples of the woods of Japan and the Philippine Islands.
Bell, Charles W. Specimen of iron-pyrites ; from Texas.
Benner, F. M. Box of stone relics ; from Ohio.
Bennett, Henry k. Fragments of pottery; from near Cape Henlopen, Delaware.
Bennett, J. C. Specimens of Indian stone implements; from Ohio.
Benton, John H. A living alligator (Alligator mississippiensis ; from Florida.
Bessels, Dr. Emil. Alcoholic specimens of Amphioxus; from the Eastern shore of Maryland.
Bigelow, Otis M. Cast of Indian bird-shaped pipe; from New York.
Bissel, E. H. Specimens of insects; from North Carolina.
Blackford, H. G., Fulton Fish Market, New York. A large and varied collection of fishes, brought into the New York fish-market, among which are Cryptacanthodes, Centropomus, Sargus Holbrookii, Pagrus vulgaris, Salmo solar, Onchorhynchus quinnat, Coregonus sp., Pomatomus saltatrix, Scomber scombrus, &c.
Bland, Thomas. Specimen of abnormal egg of chicken ; from Jamaiea, LORS
Bloomfield, James C. Pharyngeal teeth of Haploidonotus grunniens.
Boardman, George A. Two birds-skins, nests, and eggs; from Maine.
Bomar, Thomas H. Specimen of calcite; from South Carolina.
Boars, H. Case fishery apparatus; from Norway.
Bonbright, Stephen L. Three skins of birds ; from Iowa.
Booth, A. Specimens of California salmon (O. Quinnat).
Booth, M. A. Small package of recent diatoms; from Massachusetts.
Booth, Lieut. S. M., U. S. N. Suit of armor worn by the natives of the Kingsmill group of Pacific Islands.
Bowers, W. W. Sample of meat prepared by the Chinese from the abalone ([aliotis).
Boyd, Miss EF. 8S. Haman cranium; from the Hawaiian Islands.
Boyd, Dr. 8. B. Double-headed snake ; from Tennessee.
Boyle, Dr. David, Elora Museum, Ontario. Beads found in cavern on Grand River, Ontario; and slate tablet (lent).
Brace, Lewis J. K. A box of general natural history collections ; from Nassau, New Providence.

<<<Page: 85>>>

Brackett, Col. A. G., U.S. A. A specimen of the black-footed ferret (Putorius nigripes) ; from Montana.
Bracking, Alfred. Specimen of mineral; from North Carolina.
Brady, Henry B. Microscopic mountings of Carboniferous foraminifera; from Neweastle-on-Tyne, England.
Brantley, W.S. Living specimen of ground rattle (Caudisona miliaris) ; from Georgia.
Bregazzi, Miss Marie. Living bat (Scotophiius fuseus); from Washington, D. C.
Brewer, Dr. T. M. Box of birds’ skins.
Brewster, William. Nest and four eggs of brown creeper; from Massachusetts.
Brown, James, Schooner David A. Osier. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)
Brown, Dr. J. J. Sar of alcoholic reptiles; from the West Indies.
Brown, Seavy & Co, Boston, Mass. Specimens of mackerel (Scomber scombrus) and viscera of same.
Brownell, W. A. A collection of minerals.
Bruner, J. Human mummy, encased; from Cuzco, Peru.
Budd, James. Specimen of moth (Enyo lugubris); from North Carolina.
Bunnell, P. D. Specimen of mineral; from Washington Territory.
Burbage, John. Skin of weasel (Putorius erminea), pupa-state of tobacco-worm, living snakes (Heterodon platyrhinus and Hutenia sirtalis), and mineral concretion; from Missouri.
Burford, H. Specimen of tarantula; from Georgia.
Burnham, EB. K. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Burr, Rk. T., A. A. Surgeon, U. 8. A. Small box of pottery, and alcoholic specimens of fishes, reptiles, &c.; from Arizona.
Cairns, William. Stone-gouge; from Westchester County, New York.
Cambridge, Mass., Harvard Botanical Gardens, Prof. C. S. Sargent, in charge. Hight species of living water-plants.
Campbell, Capt. David, and crew of schooner Admiral. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Campbell, D. H. Specimen of insect; from Illinois.
Campbell, Kent. Cocoons of insects ; from Ohio.
Capehart, Dr. W. R. Specimens of rock-fish, shad, alewives, and a jar of herring-roe; from Albemarle Sound.
Capps, OC. Henry. Specimens of minerals; from Calvert County, Alabama.
Carlin, W. M. A collection of fishes; from Wyoming.
Carr, J. C. Fragments of fossils; from Tennessee.
Carr, H. H. Specimens of shed skin of snake and rattle of rattlesnake; from Texas and Wyoming.
Carter, C. Shirley. Two specimens in alcohol of Ancistrodon contortria ; from Virginia.

<<<Page: 86>>>

Castleman, D. J. Specimen of insect; from Alabama.
Cavanaugh, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Alfred Walen. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Chapin, Dr. EF. M. Small box of fragmentary mound-pottery; from Scott County, Georgia.
Chesley, Edward. Wooden model of the shad.
Chester, Capt. H. C. Specimen of flying-fish (Dactylopterus volitans) ; from Noank, Conn.
Choate, Warren. Specimen of ore; from Leadville, Colo.
Christiania, Norway, Museum of, through Professors Collett and Esmark. Seventy-one species of Norwegian fishes.
Church, D. Ff. Specimens of menhaden and menhaden-spawn; from Narragansett Bay.
Clark, E. T. Specimens of fishes and worms; from Gloucester, Mass., Harbor.
Cleneay, Thomas. Collection of Indian stone axes, pestles, hammers, scrapers, &e.; from Ohio.
Collins, Capt. David E., and crew of schooner Gussie Blairsdell. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Collins, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Albert H. Harding. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Collins, Capt. J. W., schooner Marion. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Copley, C. J., Stapleton, S. I., L. I. Specimens of fishes, Notemigonus chrysoleucus, Argyreiosus capellaris, Catostomus commersonii.
Cook, Richard EL. Specimens of mineral; from Clay County, Alabama.
Cooper, W. A. Box of birds, nests, and eggs, and a few shells; from California.
Cornwall, A. B. Bear’s tooth.
Corey, Warren H. Specimens of two water-beetles from Minnesota.
Corson, Joseph K., A. A. Surgeon, U. S. A. .Two living turtles; from California.
Coues, Dr. Elliott. Type specimens of Dendroica kirtlandi; and two specimens of Budytes taivanus, from Formosa; eggs of Perisoreus canadensis, from Vermont.
Covert, A. B. Specimens of albino mouse, Hesperomys leucopus, from Michigan.
Crane, H. L. Specimens of stone relies; from Florida.
Crawford, S. W. Box of bird-skins from Iceland.
Critchett, Capt. John F., and crew of schooner Commonwealth. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Crooks, Nathaniel, schooner Helen M. Dennis. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Cunningham, Capt. Augustus, schooner Geo. A. Upton. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Curzon, Capt., schooner Mist. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
S. Mis. 54-6

<<<Page: 87>>>

Curtis, Capt. George H., and crew of schooner Conductor. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Cushing, F. H. Medicine war-dress of ‘“ Moon Plume,” a Cheyenne chief (purchased), and box of Indian relics; from mound near Saint Louis, Mo.
Dall, W. H. Skull and horns of deer (Cervus aristotelis); from the highlands of India.
Davis, A. J., through Thomas Donaldson. Specimens of silver and gold bullion from the Lexington Mine Butte, Montana.
Davis, Henry. Specimens of birds’ nests, and eggs, fossils, minerals, and Indian relics ; from Iowa.
Davis, Hon. Horace. Pair of Chinese shoes; from California.
Davis, W. ZH. Fourteen living turtles (Pseudemys scabra); from North Carolina.
Dawson, Prof. J. W., Montreal, Canada. Specimen of Eozoon canadense.
Dempsey, Capt. William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Derry, C. W. Specimens of silver ore; from Leadville, Colo.
De Tarr, D. N. Skin of neck and heads of double-headed calf.
Dickinson, E. Box of birds’ nests from Massachusetts.
Diggs, Meredith, Washington, D. C. Prepared skeleton of fish, Lutjanus blackfordit.
Dodd, Andrew W. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Dolliver, Capt. Peter, and crew, of schooner Grace L. Fears. (See Washton, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Dolph, John M. Specimens of fish parasites.
Dosch, Samuel B. Specimens of minerals; from District of Columbia.
Douglass, Albert. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.) ‘
Douglass, W. Grooved stone axe; from Fauquier County, Virginia.
Dowell, John. Specimen of shad (Alosa sapidissima); from the Potomac River.
Downman, Rk. H. A fresh specimen of blue-fish (Pomatomus saltatrix) and living snakes (Ophibolus getulus, Spiloties erebennus) and turtles (Chelydra serpentina); from Virginia.
Driggs, J. W. Collection of birds’ skins (purchased) and skeleton of Tantalus loculatos ; from Florida.
Dybovoski, W., Russia. Box of shells (purchased); Baikal Sea.
Dufer, B. W. Insect from Arkansas.
Dunny, Lathrop, through Thomas Donaldson. Specimens of silver ore; from the Alice Mine, Butte, Montana.
Dugés, Prof. Alfredo. Box of birds, insects, antiquities, shells, &c. ; from Mexico.
Dunhan, James G. Skins of dog-fish; from Provincetown, Mass.
Dupré, D. A. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia.

<<<Page: 88>>>

Dyer, Captain. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Earle, J. W. Box of Indian stone relics, pottery, &c.; from South Carolina.
Earll, R. HE. Photographs of pogie steamers and living specimen of Amblystoma punctatum ; from Maine.
Edwards, Vinal N. Eighteen boxes of general marine collections; from Wood’s Holl, Mass.
Edmunds, Hon. J. E., Washington, D.C. Three birds, two linnets, one woodpecker.
Edmunds, Hon. J. M., city postmaster, Washington, D. C. Wings of mallard duck.
Egan, W. C. Box invertebrate fossils; from Niagara Group, Illinois.
Eldridge, Woodbury, through W. Oakes. Vertebra of whale; from Ipswich Bay.
Emanuel, J. M., P. A. Engineer, U. S. N. Specimen of insect; from James River, Virginia.
Ernst, A. Dr. Box of pottery and stone implements; from Venezuela.
Evans, 8S. B. Three fossils; from Iowa.
Feuardent, Gaston I. A collection of pottery and implements of the Archeolithic, Neolithic, Lacustrine, and Bronze ages.
Ferguson, T. B. Specimens of fish (Prionotus, Tetrodon, Achirus, &c.), from the Rappahannock River; box of fishes, from Crisfield, Md.
Ferguson, 8S. Specimen of Diemictylus miniatus.
Ferguson, S. W. Living snapping-turtle (Chelonura temminehkii); from the Mississippi River.
Fickel, Isaac H, Arrow-head chip.
Finsch, Dr. Otto. Three human skulls, and tooth of Rhinoceros tichorhinus ; from Western Siberia.
Flaherty, Michael. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.) .
Forbes, Capt. Maurice, schooner Eastern Light. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)
Fowles, Frank, schooner Young Sultan, of Wiscasset. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Fowles, Capt. M. V., and crew of schooner Young Sultan. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
French, John H., McMinnville, Tenn. Specimen carved stone tube.
Friele, Prof. H. Small collection of shells collected by the Norwegian Deep-Sea Expedition, in the North Atlantic Ocean.
Friel, Joseph. Box of Indian relics from Kentucky.
Friend, George. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Friend, Lemuel, through Capt. J. W. Collins. ‘See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

<<<Page: 89>>>

Galbraith, Frank G. Two boxes of Indian implements and water-worn pebble, from Eastern Pennsylvania; sculptured rock, from the Susquehanna River.
Garman, S. W., from Prof. A. Agassiz. Living turtle ( Testudo tabulata) ; from Trinidad.
Gartley, A. M. Specimens of minerals ; from Pennsyivania.
Gatke, H. Collection of birds’ skins; from Heligoland, Germany.
Gatschet, Prof. Albert S. Seven arrow-heads from Rhode Island.
Gecks, A., Hospital Steward, U.S. A. Specimens of fragmentary pottery, and copper disk found in skull taken from mound near Fort Sisseton, Dak.
Gere, J. EH. Specimens of copper and stone implements, minerals, hornet’s nest, &c.; from Wisconsin.
Gerend, John. Insect; from Wisconsin.
Getschell, Capt. John, Q., schooner Otis P. Lord. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Gibbs, George J. A collection of birds’ eggs, and seeds of Corda trex, sponge, and specimen of gypsum; from Turk’s Island, West Indies. Gill, Capt. Russell G., schooner Maud Gertrude. (See Washington, D.
C., United States Fish Commission.)
Gilpatrick, Capt. Briggs, and crew of schooner Herbert M. Rogers. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Gilpatrick, Capt. Gilman, schooner Seth Stockbridge. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Gilpin, Dr. Bernard. Jar of alcoholic specimens of Jnsectivora ; from Nova Scotia.
Glidden, Albert. Hornet’s nest; from Damariscotta.
Goldsmith, J. B. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Goldsmith, S. Living specimens of garter-snake (Hutenia sirtalis); from Maryland.
Goode, Prof. G. Brown. Specimens of fish (Cynoscion, Lagodon rhomboides, Orthopristis fulvomaculatus), from Norfolk, Va.; and spinning wheel and appurtenance of the eighteenth century.
Goode, F. C. Can of alcoholic specimens of fishes, reptiles, &c.; from Florida.
Goodwin, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Howard. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.
Goodwyn, T. Gray. Eggs of the thrush, blue-bird, and swallow; from West Virginia.
Gore, J. H. Skull of rabbit with prolongated teeth.
Gorham, Rk. P. Pharyngeal bone of drum-fish.
Gorman, Capt. John, axd crew, of schooner Geo. S. Boutwell. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Gorringe, Lieutenant Commander, U.S. N. Piece of water-pipe and slab; from the ruins of ancient Troy.

<<<Page: 90>>>

Gorton, C. Specimens of soapstone mask and box of Indian relies (lent).
Goti, Addison. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Gourville, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Rebecca Bartlett. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Goward, G. An article of apparel, lava-lava, worn by the natives of the Samoan Islands.
Graham, Dr. A. H. A Spanish spear and living specimens of scorpion and centipede; from Bagdad, Tex.
Graves, A. Three jars of fishes, some new to science; from Georgia.
Green, Fred. C. Specimens of chain and honey-comb coral; from the Mississippi River.
Green, Dr. J. B. Living specimen of garter-snake (Hutenia sirtalis) ; from Fairfax County, Virginia.
Green, W. N. Box of minerals from Virginia.
Greenleaf, Capt. Nathaniel, and crew of schooner Grace L. Fears. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Greenleaf, Capt. Thomas I’., and crew of schooner Chester I. Lawrence. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Greenwood, Captain, and crew of schooner Sultana. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Gretan, Capt. John. Very large specimen of lump-fish (Cyclopterus lumpus); from Kettle Island, Massachusetts.
Gunter, Hon. T. M. Specimen of ore.
Habirsham, F. Microscopic slides of diatoms put up by Prof. P. T. Cleve and J. D. Muller, of Upsala, Sweden.
Habersham, Wm. Neyle. Photograph of a Histiophorus gladius ; taken off Florida.
Hamilton, A. M. Specimens of minerals ; from Virginia.
Hamilton, Hugh. Water beetle; from Pennsylvania.
Hamlin, F. M. Three boxes of general natural history collections ; from Bermuda.
Hamlin, Capt. Peter, and crew of schooner Andrew Leighton. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Hanna, G. B., through Mrs. N. S. Lincoln. Specimen of mounted owl; from North Carolina.
Hanson, James, schooner Sarah P. Ayer. Specimens of tree-coral, Paragorgia, with barnacles attached.
Harrell, Alexander, through Hon. R.W. Townshend. Box of minerals and a stone ax; from Clay County, Illinois.
Harrison, Joseph, estate of. A large collection of paintings, by Catlin, of North American Indians. ;
Harrison, M. EF. Box of Indian stone implements, fossils, &c.; from Missouri.
Harsha, W. W. Specimens of slag ; from Tlinois.
Hartfield, John M.A living turtle; from North Carolina.

<<<Page: 91>>>

Hartman, Dr. W. D. <A collection of shells (Partulas).
Hayden, Dr. F. V. A collection of plants of the Yellowstone region.
Hayes, Dr. W. W. A specimen of Dendrocygna fulva; trom California.
Hayward, F. W. A jar of alcoholic specimens of sirens, frogs, and toads; from South Carolina.
Heffleman, Dorr. Specimen of ore; from Dakota.
Hemphill, Henry. Twenty-two species and varieties of shells; from California.
Hereford, Hon. Frank. Specimens of coal; from Monroe County, West Virginia. .
Hering, Dr. C. J. A large collection of plants and alcoholic specimens of reptiles, mammals, &c.; from Surinam, Dutch Guiana.
Herran, Thomas. A box of Indian pottery and specimens of locusts; from Antioquia, United States of Colombia.
Herrick, Capt. William, schooner Augusta Herrick. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Hessel, Dr. Rudolph. Living snake (Tropidonotus sipedon); from Washington, D. C.
Hess, G. H. Indian arrow-head ; from Mississippi.
High, Augustus. Specimen of silver ore.
Hill, H. H. Five casts of Indian relies.
Hitchcock, George N. Head, shell, and claws of turtle (Chelopus marmoratus) ; from California.
Hobbs, George S. Living turtle and snake and bull-minnow ; from Washington, D. C.
Hodgdon, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Bessie W. Somes. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Hodgdon, Capt. W. F., and crew of schooner Proctor Brothers. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Hodgkins, Joshua. Living snake (Ophibolus doliatus) ; from Georgetown, DAC;
Hoffman, Dr. W. J. Bone fish-hook; used by the Indians of Grand River, Dakota.
Holbrook, A. F. Large specimen of sea-cucumber (Pentacta frordosa) ; from off Cape Cod.
Holbrook, Joseph E., schooner Jennie T. Phillips, of Swampscott. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Holloman, W. H. Samples of quartz; from Lousiana.
Hoover, Edward. Skins of short-eared owl and albino red-wing blackbird (Ageleus phaniceus); from Washington, D. C.
Horan, Henry. Wiving snakes (Bascanion constrictor, Heterodon platyrhinus, Tropidonotus sipedon, Eutenia sirtalis) and stink-pot turtle (Aromochelys odoratus) ; from Virginia. Also specimen of American Sole (Achirus lineatus).
Horn, Dr. George H. Fragments of fossils (Orthoceras and Favosites) ; from the Indian Territory.

<<<Page: 92>>>

House, J. C. and O. A. McClain. Model of fish-hatching box.
Houston, Senator George 8S. Specimen of mineral; from Alabama.
Howard, FE. B. Specimens of ore; from Arkansas.
Hoy, George W., schooner Mary F. Chisholm. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Hoyt, Edward F, (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Hoyt, W. E. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Humphreys, Prof. John T, Three boxes of minerals and Indian relies ; from North Carolina.
Hurlbert Capt. R. H., schooner Sultana. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.) :
Hurlbert, Capt. William, schooner Franklin S. Schenck. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Huston, S. Box of stone implements; from Ohio.
Ingersoll, Ernest. Four boxes of oyster shells; from New Brunswick and from various places along the New England coast.
Isaac, J. C. Specimen of tufa; from Hot Springs, Arkansas.
Irwin, Dr. B. J. D., U. S. A. Spy-glass case covered with skin of Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum).
Jack, J. Allen. Loan of the St. George Stone from New Brunswick.
James, Dr. Frank L. Four boxes of Indian stone implements, pottery, and images; from Arkansas and Mississippi.
Jefferson, Lieut. J. P. A bottle of sea-water; from the Dry Tortugas, Florida.
Jenison, O. A. Box of stone implements; from Michigan. Lent for the purpose of making casts.
Johnson, Captain. Occipital portion of the skull of a whale taken on the Southern coast.
Johnson, Capt. Benjamin, schooner Alaska. (See Washington, J). C., United States Fish Commission.)
Johnson, Capt. Charles, schooner Lucille Curtis. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Johnson, Christian, schooner Wm. Thompson. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Johnson, Capt. George A., and crew of schooner Augusta Johnson. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Johnson, G. W. Five birds’ skins ( Vireo pusillus, Melospiza Heermanni, &c.); from California.
Johnson, Capt. Otis, schooner Helen M. Dennis. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Johnson, Capt. P., schooner John Smith. (See Washington, D. C., United States lish Commission.)
Jones, Mrs. Hllen. Samples of soil from Frederick, Md.
Jones, Samuel H, A specimen of the rare field-mouse (Hesperomys au reolus) ; from Florida.

<<<Page: 93>>>

Jordan, Prof. D. S.A collection of Venetian fishes; also, a collection of fishes and reptiles from Indiana.
Jouy, P. L. Aspecimen of lizard (Desmognathus fusca) and turtle (Cistudo clausa).
Joyce, Captain. Specimens of mackerel spawn; from Swan’s Island, Castine, Me.
Joyce, John A. Specimen of magnetite; from Montana.
Kaufman, J. Specimen of mineral; from Texas.
Keller, F. K. Duck, hybrid between mallard and pintail.
Kelly, Alfred W. P. Photographs of New Zealand and Australian aborigines.
Kerr, Prof. W. 0. Indian stone spade; from North Carolina.
Kilbourne, 8S. R. Specimens of fishes (Salmo and Cottus); from Long Lake, New York.
King, T. W. Specimen of mineral; from Texas.
Kingsbury, W. W. Specimens of clay; from Pennsylvania.
Kirby, Capt. W. H., and crew of schooner Wm. V. Hutchings. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Kirk, Isaac 8S. Specimens of stone implements and minerals; from Chester County, Pennsylvania.
Knight, La F. Human bones; from Indian grave.
Koch, L. I. Box of Unionide; from Iinois.
Kock, August. Parent and nest and eggs of the rough-winged swallow.
Kumlien, I. Specimens of birds, reptiles, and fishes; from Wisconsin and Michigan.
I? Acee. Specimen of mineral; from Florida.
La Barre, Miss Mollie. Living owl (Bubo virginianus); from Washington, D.C.
Lamasure, Edwin. Living turtle (Cistudo clausa).
Lane, H. B. Specimen of bug; from Virginia.
Langdon, F. W. Two specimens of crania; from Ohio.
Layard, FE. L. British consulate of Noumea. Small collection of New Caledonian birds.
Larkin, Dr. Frederick. Flint arrow-heads from New York.
Lawrence, Geo. N. Mounted specimen of Labrador duck (purchased).
Lea, Dr. Isaac. Specimens of fossil (Goniobasis Lawrencit); from Arkansas; and minerals from Pennsylvania.
Lee, Thomas, schooner Wm. H. Oakes. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Leonard, Albert. Mineral; from Pennsylvania.
Leppelman, Louis (through Mr. Webb Hayes). Loan of a collection of stone implements from Ohio for casting.
Lewis, C. A. Specimen of pompano (Trachynotus carolinensis).
Lewis, Dr. James. Box of living shells ( Viviparus) ; from New York.
Lewis, L. L. Four eggs.
Ligsworth, Capt. John E., and crew of schooner Mary Story. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

<<<Page: 94>>>

Tightburne, Dr. R. E., U. 8. A. Box of living snakes, horn-toads, and lizards; from Arizona.
Lindahl, Prof. Joshua, and Prof. A. Nordenskjold. Meteorite; from Ovifac, Greenland. (Deposited.)
Lineback, E. W. Water-worn pebble.
Locke, J. H. Specimen of. mineral; from New Hampshire.
Locke, Kate H. Specimens of rocks; from New Hampshire.
Locke, W. M. Portion of jaw of Scianoid fish.
Long, D. B. Specimen of fish (Htheostoma caprodes); from Rock Creek, Kansas.
Lora, W. Blaine. Salmon (Salmo salar); from Matapediac, Canada.
Loud, P. H. Specimen of salamander (Amblystoma punctatum); from Edgefield County, South Carolina.
Love, J. G. Two shells; from Illinois.
Low, Charles F. Box of fragments of pottery; from Ohio.
Low, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.
Lowe, &. A. Specimens of Huntite and Animitite ; from Silver Islet, On tario.
Lurvey, William. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Iyon, V. W. Fossil (Calceola); from Kentucky.
McCaleb, Vinal. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McCauley, Mr., schooner Wachusett. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McClenahan, Rk. H. Freshspecimen of pike-perch; from the Susquehanna River.
McCormack, Capt. John A., and crew of schooner Wachusett. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McCormick & Connable. Specimens of trout and white-fish.
McCormick, Lewis. Living snake (Heterodon), from Virginia; skink (Humeces fasciatus) and newt; from Virginia.
McDonald, Capt. James, and crew of schooner Magic. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McDonald, Capt. James, and erew of schooner Willie M. Stevens. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
MeDonald, Lewis (through Boston Fish Bureau). (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
MeDonald, Prof. Marshall. Specimens of menhaden (Brevoortia tyrannus) with parasites and a model of McDonald’s fishway ; also specimens of fish and Indian stone implements; from Virginia.
McDonald, Capt. William, and crew of schooner N. H. Phillips. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McDowell, W. W. Specimen of pike-perch (Lucioperca); from Tennessee.
McEachern Daniel, schooner Guy Cunningham. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)

<<<Page: 95>>>

McEachern, Daniel, schooner Rutherford B, Hayes. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McElwain, Robert. Fragments of bone; from Indian mound near Harrisville, Penn.
McGalliard, W. M. Insect.
McGraw, Phillip. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.) ;
McGuire, F. B. Collection of fishes; from Teneritfe.
McGuire, J. D. Skin of bird; from Maryland.
MeInnis, Capt. John, and crew of schooner M. H. Perkins. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
MeIntosh, Capt. Colin, and crew of schooner Nathaniel Webster. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McKinnon, Capt. Daniel, and crew of schooner Mary F. Chisholm. (See Vashington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McKinnon, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Ivanhoe. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission )
McKinnon, Capt. John, and crew schooner Rutherford B. Hayes. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
McKinnon, Thomas. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
MeLean, T. P. Living snake (Coluber obsoletus obsoletus); from Cheat River, Maryland.
McPhee, Capt. Neil, and crew of schooner Carl Schurz. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
MacRitchie, Lieutenant, U.S. N. <A brick from the house General Washington was born in.
Maddox, W. M. A large hornet nest; from Anacostia, Md.
Main, Mrs. Mary EF. Box of fragmentary Indian pottery; from New York.
Mandeville, Walter. Box of stone arrow-heads and minerals; from Pennsylvania.
Mansfield, James, and Sons. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Marchant, Capt. Jabez. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Markuson, Capt. C. I., and crew of schooner Notice. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Marnock, G. W. Specimens of Lithodytes latrans, Eumeces semilineatus, Holbrookia lacerta, and Synophus marnockii ; from Texas.
Marsh, Prof. O. 0. Cast of femur of Atlantosaurus immanis.
Marshall, George. Living snake (Heterodon platyrhinus and Tropidonotus sipedon); from Maryland.
Marshall, Henry. Specimens of living snakes (HLutenia sirtalis, Bascanion constrictor, Heterodon platyrhinus), skink (Humeces fasciatus), and lizards (Amblystoma opacum and NSceleporus undulatus); from Maryland.

<<<Page: 96>>>

Martin, Capt. Charles, and crew of schooner Martha C. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Martin, Capt. George H., and crew of schooner Northern Eagle. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Martin, Capt. S.J. Young catfish (Anarrhichas) ; from Ipswich Bay.
Mason, George EH. Nests of humming-bird and swallow.
Massey, Mr., through William Palmer, Living copperhead snake (Ancistrodon contorrix) ; from Virginia.
Mathews, J. H. Small reptile, picked up after rainstorm in Kansas.
Mather, Fred. Model of Mather’s box for transporting salmon-egegs.
Mauler, Prof. Eugene. Samples of diatomaceous earths; from Central Europe.
Maw, George. Specimens of North African, Levantine, and Spanish pottery. Meigs, General M. C., U.S. A. Owl (Buteo pennsylvanicus); from Washington, D. C., and saddle used by the Northern Cheyenne Indians. Mendoza, Prof. G., director Museo Nacional, Mexico. Cast of obsidian vessel and specimens of axolotls (Amblystoma Mavortium) and east of Mexican calendar-stone, and box of dried plants.
Merchant, George, through Procter Brothers. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Merchant, Orlando. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Merchant, Capt. Phillip, and crew, of schooner Marion. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Merrill, Mrs. C. Z. Stone and copper relics and concretions; from MisSISSIppi.
Metcalfe, Lieut. H., U.S. A. Drawings of relics found in eave at Silver City, New Mexico.
Metz, Dr. C. L. Collection of crania, pottery, bone tools, and carbonized corn; from Ohio.
Meyer, Julius. Photographs of Indians.
Meyer, Dr. J. S.. Sample of composition metal.
Mexico, Museo Nacional. (See Mendoza, Prof. G.)
Mickleborough, Prof. John. Specimens of fossils; from Ohio.
Middletown, Conn., Wesleyan University. Four specimens of Ecuadorbirds.
Miller, Mrs. Lois. Specimen of mineral.
Miller, S. B. Two arrow-heads; from Mississippi.
Miller, T. J. Specimen of stone implement from Wisconsin.
Mills, Clark. A collection of casts of the heads of the Indians at Hampton, Va.
Mills, S. V. Spear-head; from Pennsylvania.
Milner, James, W. A large collection of plants, fishes, reptiles, and birds; from Florida.
Moore, N. B. Small viviparous fish (Cyprinodont); from Florida.

<<<Page: 97>>>

Moose, G. W. Specimens of rocks ; from South Carolina.
Morey, M. A. A collection of minerals; from Minnesota.
Morrison, Capt. R. L., and crew of schooner Laura Nelson. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Morrison, J. M. Decorated buckskin used by the Wichita Indians for shield cover.
Morrissey, Capt. James D., and crew of schooner Alice M. Williams. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Morrissey, Capt. James D., and crew of schooner Plymouth Rock. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Moulton, Capt. Charles V., and crew of schooner Peter D. Smith. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Mueller, Dr. Rk. Three Indian spear-heads; from Indiana.
Murphy, Capt. C. D., and crew of schooner Alice M. Williams. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Murphy, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Wm. H. Oakes. (See Washington, D. C., United St.tes Fish Commission.)
Murphy, James H. Living snake (Heterodon platyrhinus) ; from Washington, D. C.
Mynster, William A. Specimens of quinnat salmon ; from Iowa.
Nethardt, M. N. Specimen of quartz from Missouri.
Nelson, Judge. Specimen of trilobite.
Nelson, Capt. Andrew, schooner Carleton. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.
Nelson, H. W. Twenty-four packages of general natural-history collections; from Saint Michael’s, Alaska.
Newcomb, Rk. L. Feathers from tail of fan-tailed pigeon.
Newlon, Dr. W. 8S. Specimens of fossils (Pinna peracuta and Terebratula hastata); from Kansas.
Newman, W. P. Specimen of mineral; from Missouri.
Newton, Edward. <A living yellow-bellied boa (Chilobothrus inornatus), three living turtles, and a collection of bird skins; from Jamaica, West Indies.
New York, N. Y. Museum of Natural History, Prof. A. S. Bickmore, curator. Two hundred and ninety-five species, three hundred and eighteen specimens of birds.
Nichols, Dr. H. A. A. Specimen of gannet (Sula piscator); from Dominica, West Indies.
Nickerson, Capt. James, and crew of schooner Bellerophon. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Nickerson, Capt. James, and crew of schooner Commonwealth. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Norris, P. W. Specimen of silicified wood; from Yellowstone National Park.
Norwood, Ferdinand. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)

<<<Page: 98>>>

Olmstead, Anthony J. Five arrow-heads and chips of jasper; from Pike County, Pennsylvania.
Olnsted, H. B. Box of Indian relies; from Mlinois.
Olsen, Capt. Chris., and crew of schooner William Thompson. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Olsen, Capt. George, and crew of schooner Willie M. Stevens. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Olsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Epes Tarr. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Olsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Polar Wave. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Oran, F. F. Specimens of minerals; from Alabama.
Overall, Capt. M. C. Small box of minerals; from Virginia.
Overton, B. F. Fragments of fossils, &c.; from Indian Territory.
Palmer, Dr. E. Box of ethnologica; from California.
Palmer, William. Specimens of living snakes; from Virginia.
Parks, Capt. Matthew, and crew of schooner Davy Crockett. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Parrish, W.J. A small collection of fossils; from Kansas City, Mo.
Patrick, Dr. J.J. R. Two easts of the “Cahokia mound,” of Madison County, Hlinois.
Pease, W. B. Collection of minerals, skull of swift, and heads and wings of two wild ducks ; from New Mexico.
Peck, Dr. T. I. Stone muller and specimen of epidotic sienite; from Tennessee.
Peeples, William A., schooner Addison Center. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Peichardiére, Prof. O. dela. A collection of birds’ skins, nests, and eggs, reptiles, insects, and fishes; from Louisiana.
Perkins, E., of schooner Grace L. Fears. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)
Perry, J. A. Specimen of diatomaceous earth; from Punta de Lobos, Barbadoes.
Pettibone, Wiitiam. Stone axe; from Maryland.
Phelps, W. W. Flint spear-head.
Philbrick, BE. EB. Specimens of phosphates; from Florida.
Pirz, Anthony. A large collection of chemicals and products derived from animal matter, canned meats, wax candles, albuminum, We.
Pitis, A. Skeleton of turtle (Zmys guttata) and skull of rodent.
Poey,-Prof. Felipe. A living specimen of Emys jamai, Cope; from Cuba.
Polen, M. Root of herb used by the Indians of San Bernardino, Cal., for heart disease.
Poppelein Silicated Phosphate Company, Baltimore, Md.. Samples of infusorial earths, samples of fertilizers, &e.
Powel, Samuel. Specimen of lump-fish (Cyclopterus lumpus); from Newport, R. I.

<<<Page: 99>>>

Preston, R. E., Acting Director of Philadelphia Mint. Annual Assay Medal of 1879; obverse, H. R. Lindermann; reverse, tomb of Joseph Henry.
Proctor, G. H. Specimen of flounder; from the Squam River, Gloucester, Mass.
Pybas, Ben. Box of fossil plants from Alabama.
Quick, Edgar R. Specimens of field mice (Synaptomys cooperi) ; from Indiana.
Ragsdale, G. H. Collection of birds; from Texas.
Randle, Rev. LH. H. Two specimens of minerals.
Rea, James H. Specimen of mineral.
Read, FE. F. Box of Indian relies ; from Alabama.
Reisinger, Lieutenant U. S. N. Fragments of Peruvian and Aztec pottery.
Reynolds, J. H. Specimens of silicified woods and a box of stone implements; from-Tennessee.
Rhees, William H. Specimen of living snake and toad; Washington, DAC:
Rhees, William J. Living garter-snake (Hntenia sirtalis) and toads (Bufo americanus); from Washington, D. C.
Rhodes, Thomas. Specimens of leaf-shaped stone implements; from Ohio.
Rhodes, W. FE. Fossil shark’s tooth; from marl beds near the Bigbee River, Alabama.
Richards, John H. Two boxes of living turtles (Cistudo clausa and Chelopus insculptus) ; from Pennsylvania.
Ridgway, Robert. Collections of birds; from Ilinois, Florida, and Cobb’s Island, Virginia.
Rison, John L. Two bottles of mineral water from Alabama.
Rodgers, John. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Roessler, A. R. Twelve boxes of stone implements and minerals; from Tennessee and North Carolina. (Deposited.)
Rogers, Thomas. Specimens of shells; from England.
Roper, Capt. R. I., of schooner Esther Ward. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Rose, G. W. Specimens of ozockerite ; from Utah.
Rose, Capt. Medeo, and crew of schooner Hiram Powers. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Ruth, J. A. Smailecollection of Indian relics; from Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
Ruckley, Capt. Charles, of schooner Wm. A. Pew. (See Washington, D. ©., United States Fish Commission.)
Ruckley, Charles, schooner Electric Flash. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)

<<<Page: 100>>>

Ruckley, Capt. Charles, of schooner Frederick Gerring, jr. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Rucker, James 8S. Two boxes of ethnologica; from Indiana.
Ryan, John J. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Ryan, Capt. Joseph, and crew of schooner David A. Story. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Ryan, Matt., of schooner Lizzie. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Ryan Matt., of schooner Seth Stockbridge. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Salvin, Prof. O. Bight species, nineteen specimens, of birds; from the Gallapagos Islands.
Saryer, David, schooner Constitution. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Sawyer, R. J. Specimen of California salmon (Oncorhynchus quinnat) ; from Green Bay, Michigan.
Sayer & Fisher. Samples of adamantine bricks from New Jersey.
Schanno, Joseph. Bulbs of the wild Camas; from Washington Territory.
Schneck, Dr. J. . Collection of living turtles (Malacoclemmys geographicus, M. pseudogeographicus, Cistudo clausa, &e.); from Illinois.
Schuermann, C. W. Pouch of opossum with foetal young, bottle of reptiles, and a living specimen of the stink-pot (Aromochelys odoratus) ; from Texas.
Schurz, Hon. Carl, Secretary of the Interior. Collection of minerals.
Scott, George W., of schooner Edwin C. Dolliver. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Scott, George W., of schooner H. A. Durham. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Scott, George W., schooner Mary Story. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)
Scudder, Newton P. Skins of the bobolink and blue-bird ; from New York; also large collection of sea birds, marine animals, &ec.; from the Grand Banks.
Seiler, D. W. Two trout affected with worms in bladder.
Sellman, Henry. Box of different preparations of sardines.
Sharp, J. M. Fragments of human skulls; from mounds in Louisiana.
Shean, John, schooner Ida May. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission.)
Shemelia, James P., of schooner Wm. H. Raymond. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Shepherd, kh. T. Specimens of arrow-heads and Silurian shells; from Ohio.
Sherman, Gen. W. T. Two specimens of silicified wood; from Arizona.

<<<Page: 101>>>

Shoemaker, Ernest. Living snake (Ophibolus getulus and Eutenia sirtatis); from Virginia.
Siil, J. M. B. Mounted specimen of bunting; from Michigan.
Slater, Senator James H. Samples of coal ; from Oregon.
Slatery, G. A. Stone sinker; from Maryland.
Small, E. E. Humpback whale (Megaptera) ; from Provincetown, Mass. (Purchased.)
Smith, D. Living snake (Bascanion constrictor) ; from Georgetown, D. C.
Smith, Edwin W., schooner Storm King, of Provincetown. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Smith, Greene. A large collection of birds’ skins.
Smith, Prof. H. L. Mounted diatoms. (Purchased.)
Smith, John P. Eleven arrow-heads ; from Maryland.
Smith, Mrs. Ruth L. Stone pestle, lent for casting.
Smith, Capt. Sewell W., and crew of schooner S. Rk. Lane. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Snow A. Specimen of mineral; from Tennessee.
Southwick, J. M. K. Samples of fishing-tackle ; from Rhode Island.
Spainhauer, J. M. Insect; from North Carolina.
Spalding, R. W., through Rev. F. B. Scheetz. Hematite celt; from Missouri.
Spangler, George. Fresh specimen of buffalo-fish.
Spencer, Senator George EL. 'Two specimens ot minerals.
Spurr, Capt. Alfred, and crew of schooner J. T. Wonson. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Sune Tee P. Specimensof living snakes (Hutenia sirtatis, Ophibolus doliatus triangulus, O. getulus) and owl (Scops asio); from Maryland. Stacy, Fred. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Starr, Frederick. Box of minerals; from New York.
Stearns, Silas. Specimens of fish (Seriola, Pimelepterus, Batrachus, Carangus, Trachynotus, Ophichthys), and sponges; from Florida.
Steed, Augustus M. Specimen of insect.
Steedman, Dr. J.G. W. Specimen of catfish (Amiurus nigricans), weighing 150 pounds, and two perch (Morone interrupta); from the Mississippi River.
Steele, Hon. Walter L. Specimens of rosy quartz crystals.
Steere, Professor J. B. Box of ancient pottery ; from Brazil.
Stevens, Levi. Two boxes coke; from Illinois.
Stevenson, James. Large stone pestle; from near Great Salt Lake, Utah.
Stokes, John H. An insect taken from a piece of ore 50 feet below the surface of the ground.
Story, Lieut. J. P., Signal Service, U. 8S. A. Piece of telegraph-wire melted and ficeeeeraicd by lightning ; from Texas.
Stout, W. C. Stag-beetle ; from Arkansas.
Statford, W. O. Beetle (Dynastes hercules); from North Carolina.

<<<Page: 102>>>

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. oT
Sturm, Isaac. Worm found in Madeira vine, Alabama.
Sumichrast, Prof. F. Box of birds and reptiles; from Tehauntepec.
Sutton, John W. Modern Japanese bow and arrows.
Surveyor-General’s Office, San Francisco, Cal. Box minerals; from California.
Swan, James G. Specimens of fishes and shells, fiber of common nettle used by the Makah and Quillehayte Indians for lines and fish nets; also smelt-net made of nettle-fiber; from Neeah Bay, Washington Territory.
Sweet, William. Specimens of minerals; from New York.
Sweet, Capt. William, of schooner Grace C. Hadley. (See Washington, D. €., United States Fish Commission.)
Swigert, Lieut. S. M., U. S. A. Three dried fish skins.
Syme, George B. Specimens of minerals; from Wyoming.
Symmes, Rev. Francis. Cast of Indian stone implement; from Indiana.
Tate, Benjamin H. Specimen of Gila monster (Heloderma suspectwim) ; from Arizona.
Taylor, Will. H. Two boxes of stone relics; from Tennessee. (Purchased.)
Tasmania, Government of, through H. M. Hall, Hon. Secretary Royal Commission. Specimens of Ornithorhynchus and Tachyglossus ; from Tasmania.
Teller, Hon. H. M. Specimens of nickel ore; from Colorado.
Temple, J. H. Worked pieces of porphyry designed for implements.
Tevis, J. B. Specimen of fish (Letrodon levigatus); from Delaware Bay.
Thetford, 8S. B. Specimens of mineral.
‘Thompson, C. H., passed assistant paymaster, U. S. N. Silver enameled cigar-case, match-box, and tray of Siamese workmanship; also portrait of H. R. H. Princess Sei Velay Larna received by Paymaster Thompson from the King of Siam.
Thompson, DArcy W. Pressed sertularian from Australia and New Zealand.
Thompson, Henry. Specimen of ore ; from Utah.
Thompson, Capt. William, and crew of schooner Magic. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Thorpe, T. M. Two shad (Alosa sapidissima) ; from the Washita River, Arkansas,
Tibbets, J. H. Mineral; from Washington Territory.
Tokio, Japan, Mombusho Museum, Fujimaro Tauska, Director. A colleetion of minerals and fishes; from Japan.
Toner, Dr. J. M. Living alligator (Alligator Mississippiensis); from Florida.
Townshend, Smith, M.D. A green oyster; sent for examination.
Trevoy, Capt. Hdward, and crew of schooner Proctor Brothers. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
S. Mis, 54-——7

<<<Page: 103>>>

Tristram, Rev. H. B. Specimens of New Caledonian birds.
True, F. W. Specimens of living turtles and snakes; trom Washing: ton, D. C.
Tuggle, W. O. Stone implement; from Georgia.
Tuller, A. Eggs of mud hen; from California.
Turin, Italy, Royal Zoological Museum of Turin. A collection of mammals and reptiles, in alcohol; from Italy.
Turner, L. M. Twenty-five boxes of general natural history and ethnological collections; from Alaska.
Tyler, E. Specimens of herring; from Lake Ontario, New York.
Valentine, M. S. Stone ax; lent for casting.
Van Dyck, W. T. Parasite taken from Tamias.
Van Wyck, P. A. M. Specimens of fish (Pomolobus mediocris and P. verna-" lis); from the Hudson River.
Vaux, William S. Specimens of garnets and mica schist; from Fort Wrangel, Alaska. :
Velie, Dr. J. W. Box of alcoholic specimens of Florida fishes and two ruddy ducks.
Vibert, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Argonaut. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Wadsworth, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Conductor. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Walker, H. W. Specimen of mineral.
Walker, S. T. Sixteen boxes of birds, living and alcoholic reptiles, insects, birds’ nests, human crania, and ethnological collections ; from Florida.
Wallace, John. Mounted Bassaricyon gabbii (purchased).
Wallace, ev. Peter. Indian stone ornament; (lent for casting).
Wallace, Rev. S.J. Small hematite celt; (lent for casting).
Waller, Mr. Specimen of duck; from Virginia.
Washington, D. C.:
Interior Department:
General Land Office. (See under the names of Surveyors-General A.
R. Hardenburg, R. C. Mason,-and John Mason.) Navy Department :
Bureau of Steam Engineering. (See under the names of Passed Assistant Engineers G. W. Baird and J. M. Emanuel.)
Navigation Bureau, Capt. W. D. Whiting. Box of soundings made by the U.S. 8. Pssex, W. S. Schley commander, off the coasts of Africa and South America.
United States Navy. (See under the names of Liext. Commander IT. Gorringe and Lieut. C. Belknap, G. M. Book, Capt. D. @. MacRitchie.)
Treasury Department:
United States Mint, Philadelphia, Pa. Hon. R. E. Preston, acting di-
rector. Copies of the annual assay medal.

<<<Page: 104>>>

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. gS
Washington, D. C._—Continued.
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. (Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Commissioner.) One hundred and forty-one packages zoological collections from Provineetown and Gloucester, Mass., and vicinity, put up by Prof. A. EB. Verrill, G. Brown Goode, and Tarleton H. Bean. (See also under the names of Charles G. Atkins, Tarleton H. Bean, H. C. Chester, F. N. Clark, Vinal N. Edwards, G. Brown Goode, James W. Milner, and Livingston Stone.) Specimens have also been obtained by the Commission from the following parties:
Alden, Capt. Oscar I., and crew of the schooner Andrew Leighton. Rock covered with crustaceans and sea-anemone.
Allen, George K., schooner Gertie Foster. Portion of skull of black-fish.
Anderson, Capt. Charles, and crew of the schooner Alice G. Wonson. A large collection of corals (Primnoa reseda, Paragorgia, &c.), star-fishes, ascidians, barnacles, and rudder-fish (Palinurichthys perciformis).
Ardendale, Edward, schooner Sea roam. Spiny spider-crab (Lithodes maia) ; from off Jeftrey’s Ledge.
Brown, James, schooner David A. Osier. Living pipe-fish (Siphonostoma) ; from off Plymouth, Mass.
Burnham, E. K. Several very large cod and hake sounds.
Campbell, Capt. David, and crew of schooner Admiral. A collection of fishes (Myzine glutinosa, Simenchelys parasiticus, Petromyzon marinus, Scopelus, Synaphobranchus pinnatus, Anarrhickas ninor), corals, sea-feathers, anemones, star-fishes, &c.; from the Grand Banks and Banquereau.
Cavanaugh, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Alfred Whalen. Rock covered with sponges and shells, hermit crabs, &e. ; from George’s Bank.
Collins, Capt. David E., and crew of schooner Gussie Blairsdell. Specimens of star-fish, sea-cucumbers, corals, bryozoans, &c., from George’s Bank.
Collins, Capt. John and crew, schooner Albert H. Hasting. Specimens of fishes (Phycis, Clupea, Trachurus, Prionotus, §c.), beetles, lobsters, &c.; from off South Shoal hght ship.
Collins, Capt. Joseph W., and crew of schooner Marion. <A collection of fishes (Somniosus, Synaphobranchus, Zoarces, Macrurus, Centroscyllium, &c.) corals (Aleyonium, Paragorgia), star-fishes, sponges, &c.; from the Grand, George’s, and Banquerean banks.
Critchett, Capt. John F., and crew of schooner Commonwealth. Specimens of corals (Primnoa, &c.), spider-crabs (Lithodes), and star-fishes; from George’s Bank.
Crooks, Nathaniel, schooner Helen M. Dennis. Eggs of mollusk; from George’s Bank.
Cunningham Capt. Augustus, schooner Geo. A. Upton. Sea-mouse (Aphrodita), taken from stomach of cod, caught off coast of Nova Scotia.
Curtis, Capt. George H., and crew of schooner Conductor. Specimens of corals (Acanthogorgia), sea-feathers, star-fishes, sea-anemones, &¢c.; from Banquereau.
Curzon, Captain, schooner Mist. Vertebra of whale; from Grand Banks.
Dodd, Andrew W. Jaw-bone of black-fish, taken on Cofiin’s Beach, Ipswich Bay.
Dolliver, Captain Peter and crew of schooner Grace L. Fears. Specimens of great northern sea-feather (Pennatula borealis), warty sea-rose ( Urticina), fishes (Synaphobranchus and Alepidosaurus), &c.; from La Have Bank.
Douglass, Albert. Webb-fingered sea-robin (Prionotus carolinus) ; from otf Norman’s Woe.

<<<Page: 105>>>

Washington, D. C.—Continued. U.S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.
Dyer, Captain, of Provincetown, Mass. Piece of skin, two teeth of spermwhale, and tooth of alligator; from the West Indies.
Forbes, Maurice, schooner Eastern Light. A curious piece of perforated clay slate, in the shape of a horse’s hoof, taken from Grand Bank.
Fowles, Frank, schooner Young Sultan. Specimens of fish (Sebastes, Petromyzon, Anarrhichas, Leptoblennius, &c.), star-fish, corals, sea-anemones, &e., from off Gloucester, Mass.
Fowles, Capt. Ml. V., and crew of schooner Young Sultan. Specimens of Norway haddock (Sebastes), sea-anemones, holothurians, &c., from off Gloucester, Mass. ;
Friend. George. Two specimens of split and dried leopard-fish (Lopholatilus chameleonticeps).
Friend, Samuel. Osseous growth, taken from head of fifty-pound codfish.
Getchell, Capt. John Q., and crew of schooner Otis P. Lord. Specimens of fish (Sebastes, Ammodytes, Pomolobus, Cyclopterus, Squalus, Myxine, Prionotus, Clupea), &¢€.; sponges, corals, crabs, sea-anemones, bryozoans, &c.; from Brown’s and George’s Banks.
Gill, Capt. Russell G., and crew of schooner Maud Gertrude. Large golden codfish, from Ipswich Bay, and flukes and part of the shank of an anchor of pattern used thirty years ago, covered with varieties of marine animals; taken off Gloucester, Mass.
Gilpatrick, Capt. Briggs, and crew of schooner Herbert M. Rodgers. Specimens of fish (Alepidosaurus, Synaphobranchus, Myxine, Petromyzen, Centroscyllium, &ce.); corals (Aconella), sponges, sea-feathers, &e.; from Banqueran.
Gilpatrick, Capt. Gilman, schooner Seth Stockbridge. Stones covered with sponges and corals, and a crab; from Banquerean.
Goldsmith, J. B. Specimens of fungus (Phallus impudicus) ; from Rockport, Mass.
Goodwin, Capt. Thomas, and crew of schooner Howard. Specimens of fishes (Centroscymnus, Chimera, Synaphobranchus, Macrurus, Haloporphyrus, Myaxine, &c.); corals, star-fishes, sponges, sea-feathers, anemones, &c. ; from Grand Banks.
Gorman, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Geo. S. Boutwell. Specimens of fishes (Lophopsetta, Scomberesox, Hemitripterus), hermit crab, and a large sea-mouse (Aphrodita); from Western Bank.
Gourville, Capt. John, and crew of schooner Rebecca Bartlett. Specimens of fishes (Zoarces, Murenoides, Liparis), corals, anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, &c.; principally from George’s Bank.
Gott, Addison. Rock, taken from George’s Bank in 1876 by schooner Rival.
Greenleaf, Capt. Nathaniel, and crew of schooner Grace L. Fears. Specimens of fishes (Macrurus, Centroscyllinm, Anarrhichas), &c., corals, star-fishes, sponges, sea-feathers, &c.; from Banquereau and the Grand Banks.
Greenleaf, Capt. Thomas F., and crew of schooner Chester R. Lawrence. Specimens of corals (Paragergia and Keratoisis), star-fishes (Asterias stellionura) sponges, hydroids, &c.; from Banquereau.
Greenwood, Captain, and crew of schooner Sultana. Specimens of crabs, lobsters, corals, sponges, sea-lemons (Dollenia), and sea-cucumbers ( Pentacta) ; from Clark’s Bank.
Hamlin, Capt. Peter, and crew of schooner Andrew Leighton. Specimens of corals and fishes ; from Banquereau.
Herrick, Capt. William, schooner Augusta Herrick. Specimens of Hypsiptera argentea, found on deck-while dressing mackerel; lance (Ammodytes), &e. 5 from George’s Bank.

<<<Page: 106>>>

Washington, D. C.—Continued.
U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisher ies—Continued.
Fiodgdon, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner Bessie W. Somes. Specimens of sea-feathers (Pennatula borealis and Balticina Finmarchica) and sea-anemones; from the Grand Banks,
Hodgdon, Capt. W. F., and crew, of schooner Procter Brothers. Specimens of fishes (Synaphobranchus and Petromyzon), corals (Acanthogorgia, Paragorgit), Seen culneis 's, &c.; from Western Bank.
Holbrook, Joseph L., pongone Jennie T. Phillips. Specimen of cramp or torpedo fish (Torpedo occidentalis), weighing 250 pounds; taken ten miles south of Gloucester, Mass.
Hoy, George W., schooner Mary PF. Chisholm. A very beautiful specimen of great tree-coral (Paragorgia arborea), nearly five feet high and three feet broad, and some basket star-fish (Astrophyton); from the Grand Banks.
Hoyt, Edward Ff. A specimen of pipe fish (Siphonostoma).
Hoyt, W. E. Specimen of sea-bass (Centropristris); taken in weir off Norman’s Woe.
Hurlbert, Capt. R. H., schooner Sultana. Specimens of shells, hydroids, bryozoans, ascidians, holothurians, &c.; from George’s Bank.
Hurlbert, Capt. William, schooner Franklin S. Scheck. Specimen of fingersponge (Chalina); from off Sankoty Head, Mass.
Johnson, Capt. Benjamin, schooner Alaska. Specimens of sea-mice (Aphroditea); from George’s Bank.
Johnson, Capt. Charles, schooner Lucille Curtis. Specimens of crabs (2 Nevins Sayi) ; from N. lat. 20° 45’, W. long. 61° 32’; shrimps from N. lat. 25° 14’, W. long. 59° 33’; also specimens of fish from South America and the West Indies.
Johnson, Capt. Christian, schooner William Thompson. A specimen of fish new to science (Alepocephalus bairdii); fromthe Grand Banks,
Johnson, Capt. George A., and crew, of schooner Augusta Johnson. Specimens of fishes (Macrurus Fabricii, M. bairdii, Scomberesox, Centroscymnus, Centroscyllium, Macrurus rupestris, Synaphabranchus), corals, sponges, sea-feathers, &c.; from Banquereau.
Johnson, Capt. Olis, schooner Helen M. Dennis. Specimen of finger-sponge (Chalina) ; from Brown’s Bank.
Johnson, Capt. P., schooner John Smith. Specimen of lamper-eel (Petromyzon), sea-corn (eggs of Buccinum); from Brown’s Bank.
Kirby, Capt. William, schooner Wm. V. Hutchings. Specimens of important food fish new to science (Lopholatilus chameleonticeps); from off Noman’s Land; and ghost-fish (Cryptacanthodes), barnacles, star-fishes, sea-anemones, &c.; from George’s Bank.
Lee, Thomas. A very rare squid (Loligopsis pavo); from the edge of the Gulf Stream.
Ligsworth, Capt. John E., and crew, of schooner Mary Story. Specimens of sponge (Phakellia) and hydroids attached to rock; from La Have Bank.
Low, John. A large branch of tree-coral (Primnoa rescda) ; from George’s Bank.
LTurvey, William. Specimens of sea-corn (eggs of Buccinum).
MeCalib, Vinal. A young blue-fish (Pomatomus saltatrixz); from Gloucester Harbor.
MeCauley, Mr., schooner Wachusett... Specimens of fishes (Synaphabranchus and Myzxine), sea-feathers (Pennatula, Balticina), corals (Acanella, Keratoisis), star-fishes, &c.; from Banquereau.
DMeCormack, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner Wachusett. Specimens of treecoral (Paragorgia aie Sener (Lallicina Finmarphica), basketfish (Astrophyton), sea-anemones, sponges, &c.; from Banquercau.

<<<Page: 107>>>

Washington, D. C.—Continued. U. 8S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.
McDonald, Capt. James, and crew, of schooner Magic. Specimens of corals (Acanella, Ilabellum), sponges (Phakellia), sea-cauliflowers, &c.; from Grand Banks.
McDonald, Capt. James, and crew, of schooner Willie M. Stevens. Specimens of fishes (Scomberesox), basket-tish (Astrophyton), &c.; from La Have Bank. :
McDonald, Lewis. A large perforated rock covered with hydroids and bryozoans; from North Bay.
MeDonald, Capt. William, and crew, of schooner N. H. Phillips. Specimens of fishes (Lycodes, Macrurus), corals, sponges, &c.; from Grand Banks. McBachern, Daniel, schooner Rutherford B. Hayes. Two chicken-halibut (Hippoglossus vulgaris), from Jetlrey’s Bank, and two small flying-fish
( Lxocetus).
MecEachern, Daniel, schooner Guy Cunningham. Specimens of fishes (Macrurus, Scopelus, Myxine), sea-feathers, star-fish, corals, sponges, &c.; from the Grand Banks.
McGraw, Philip. A small stickle-back (Gasterosteus pungitius); from Gloucester Harbor.
MelInnis, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner M. H. Perkins. Specimens of fishes (Ammodytes, Myxine, Synaphobranchus), sea-feathers (Virgularia, Pennatula), star-fishes (Asterias, Hippasterias), sponges, anemones, &c.; from off Newfoundland, Sable Island, and La Have.
McIntosh, Capt. Colin, and crew, of schooner Nathaniel Webster. Specimens of fishes (Synaphobranchus), sea-feathers (Pennatula), warty sea-rose ( Urticina), corals (Acanella); from Western Bank.
McKinnon, Capt. Daniel, and crew, of schooner Mary F. Chisholm. Specimens of fishes (Myxine), corals (Primnoa, Aleyonium, Flabellum), sponges, starfishes, sea-anemones, &c. ; from Banquereau.
McKinnon, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner Rutherford B. Hayes. Specimens of fishes (Sebastes, Cyclopterus, Myxine, Zoarces, Merlucius, Cryptacanthodes, Melanogrammus, Hippoglossus, &c.), star-fishes (Aslerias, Ctenodiscus), worms, crustaceans, &c.; from George’s Bank.
McKinnon, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner Ivanhoe. A small devil-fish (Octopus bairdii); from Jeffrey’s Ledge.
McKinnon, Thomas. A specimen of American sole (Achirus lineatus); trom Brown’s Bank.
McPhee, Capt. Neil, and crew, of schooner Carl Schurz. Specimens of coral (Acanella), sea-feather (Ballicina), sea-rose (Urticina), anemones, &ce. ; from Banquereau.
Mansfield, James, and sons. Specimens of cod-fish, with small fish imbedded in flesh ; from Grand Banks.
Marchant, Capt. Jabez. Portion of jaw of shark, with teeth.
Markuson Capt. K., and crew, of schooner Notice. Specimens of fishes (Macrurus), corals, sea-feathers, star-fishes, shells, &c.; from Banquereau. Martin, Capt. Charles, and crew, of schooner Martha €. <A tine specimen of honey-comb coral, from off Cape Negro, N. S.; and rock-eel (Wurenoides
gunnellus) ; from Gloucester Harbor.
Martin, Capt. George H., and crew, of schooner Northern Eagle. Specimens of fishes (Zoarces, Raia, Seriola, Cyclopterus, &c.), star-fishes, &c. ; from Ipswich Bay.
Merchant, George. Specimen of ecake-urchin (2chinachnius parma), from Narragansett Bay; also specimens of quartz and mica, &c., from Barnegat.

<<<Page: 108>>>

Washington, D. C.—Continued. U. 8S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.
Merchant, Orlando. A perfect specimen of rock-eel (Muranoides gunnellus).
Merchant, Capt. Phiitip, and crew, of schooner Marion. Specimens of fishes (Synaphobranchus, Anarrhichas, Macrurus, Myxine, Stomias, Chimera, &c.), corals, sponges, star-fishes, anemones, &c.; from Banquereau and the Grand Banks.
Morrissey, Capt. James D., and crew, of schooner Plymouth Rock. Specimens of fishes (Haloporphyrus, Centroscyllium) corals, star-fishes, sponges, seafeathers, &c.; from Grand Banks.
Morrissey, Capt. James D., and crew of schooner Alice M. Williams. Specimens of fishes (Sebastes, Scopelus), sea-feathers (Balticina), and basket starfish; from the Grand Banks.
Morrison, Capt. R. L., and crew, of schooner Laura Nelson. Specimens of slimeeels (Myzxine glutinosa), corals (Alcyonium), sea-anemones, &c.; from the Grand Banks.
Moulton, Capt. Charles V., and crew, of schooner Peter D. Smith. Specimens of fishes (Squalus, Prionotus, Petromyzon, Centroscyllium, Centroscymnus, Synaphobranchus), corals (Primnoa, Paragorgia, Acanella, Acanthogorgia, Alcyonium, &¢.), sponges, &c.; from George’s and Clark’s Banks.
Murphy, Capt. C. D., and crew, of schooner Alice M, Wiiliams. A collection of corals (Aleyonium, Primnoa, Keratoisis, Acanclla), sea-feathers, star-tishes, lamp-shells, anemones, &c.; from the Grand Banks.
Murphy, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner William H. Oakes. Specimens of slime-eel (Myzine glutinosa), bush-coral (Primnoa reseda), sea-feathers (balticina Finnmarchica), and basket star-fish; from Banquereau.
Nelson, Capt. Andrew, schooner Carlton. Rock covered with bryozoans and barnacles, and a finger-sponge (Chalina); from Brown’s and George’s Banks.
Nickerson, Capt. James, and crew, of schooner Commonwealih. Specimens of fishes (Synaphobranchus, Myxine), sea-feathers, sponges, sea-anemones, KC. ; from the Grand Banks.
Nickerson, Capt. James, and créw, of schooner Bellerophon. Specimens of bushcoral (Acanella Normani), sea-feathers (Pennatula borealis), warty sea-rose ( Urticina), and shells; from La Have Bank.
Norwood, Ferdinand. Specimens of sea-robin (Prionotus carolinus); caught off Rockport, Mass.
Olsen, Capt. Christian, and crew, of schooner William Thompson. Four aleyonium corals, tube-making actiniana (Cerianthus borealis), and a number of basket star-fish; from Grand Banks.
Olsen, Capt. George, and crew, of schooner Willie M. Stevens. Specimens of fishes (Palinurichthys, Simenchelys, Anarrhichas, Synaphobranchus, Petromyzon, Scopelus, &¢e.), corals (Flabellum Goodei), sea-feathers (Pennatula), star-fishes, &c.; from Banquereau.
Olsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner Epes Farr. Specimens of fishes (Cyclopterus, Simenchelys, Synophabranchus, &c.), corals( Primnoa, Keratoisis, Paragorgia), sea-feathers (Pennatula, Balticina), star-fishes, anemones, &c.; from Banquereau.
Olsen, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner Polar Wave. Specimens of pugnosed eels, eggs of Buccinum, sea-feathers (Pennatula borealis) and anemones; from the Grand Banks.
Parks, Capt. Matthew, and crew, of schooner Davy Crockett. Specimens of fishes (Synaphobranchus), sea-mice (Aphrodytes), crabs, worms, &c.; from the Grand Banks.
Peeples, William A., and crew, of schooner Addison Center. Specimens of fishes (Synaphobranchus, Simenchelys), corals (Iteratoisis, Paragorgia, Acanella),

<<<Page: 109>>>

Washington, D. C.—Continued. U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.
sponges, sea-feathers (Pennatula), shells (Terebratulina, Neptunea), aner.ones, &c.; from Banquereau.
Perkins, £., schooner Grace L. Fears. Specimens of fishes (yxine, Lumicrotremus), star-fishes (Asterias, Hippasterias, &c.), corals, sponges, sea-feathers, anemones, &c. ; from the Grand Banks.
Rodgers, John. A living hair-worm (Gordius).
Roper, Capt. R. I., schooner Esther Ward. Rock covered with shells, barnacles, and hydroids ; from George’s Bank.
Rose, Capt. Medeo, and crew, of schooner Hiram Powers. Specimen of Norway haddock (Sevastes marinus); from Jeffrey’s Bank.
Ruckley, Charles, schooner Electric Flash. Specimens of fishes (Cyclopterus, Phycis, Lophopsetta, Gasterosteus), squid (Ommastrephes), aud sand-fleas ; from off Seguin Light, Maine.
Ruckley, Charles, schooner Frederic Gerring, jr. Specimens of slime-eels (Myxzine glutinosa), corals, sponges, crustacea, star-fishes, &c.; from the Grand Banks.
Ruckley, Capt. Charles, schooner William A. Pew. Rock covered with shells, hydroids, and bryozoans; from George’s Bank. ;
Ryan, John J. Perforated rock ; from George’s Bank.
Ryan, Capt. Joseph, and crew, of schooner David A. Story. Specimens of sponges, (Phakellia, &c.); from the Grand Banks.
Ryan, Matthew, schooner Lizzie. Specimens of fishes (Scopelus), star-fishes, corals, and two tube-making actinias; from the Grand Banks.
Ryan, Matthew, schooner Seth Stockbridge. Specimens of sea-anemones, seafeathers (Pennatula borealis), &c. ; from Green Bank.
Sawyer, David, schooner Constitution. Ovaries of blue-shark; from Middle Bank.
Scott, George W., schooner Edwin C. Dolliver. Specimens of fishes (Macrurus, Synaphobranchus, &c.), sea-feathers (Pennatula borealis, P. aculata, Baliicina Finnmarchica), eraw-fishes, star-fishes, shells, &e.; from Sable Island Bank.
Scott, George W., schooner, H. A. Duncan. Specimens of fishes (Macrurus, Sebastes, Haloporphyrus, Centroscyllium, Myaxine), corals, sea-feathers, sponges, &c.; from the Grand Banks.
Scott, George W., schooner Mary Story. Specimens of fishes (Sebastes, Orcynus, Lophopsetta, Achirus, Pomatomus), shells ( Pecten, Modiola, Cyrptodaria, &c.), crustacea, sponges, hydroids, worms, &c.
Shean, John, schooner Ida May. Specimens of herring (Clupea harengus) ; from off Norman’s W.oe.
Shemelia, Joseph P., schooner Wm. H. Raymond. Specimens of fishes and shells ; from George’s Bank.
Smith, Edwin, W., schooner Storm King. Specimens of coral, sea-fan (Gorgonia), and plastrons of large turtles ; from Grand Cayman, West Indies.
Smith, Capt. Sewell W., and crew, of schooner S. 2. Lane. Specimens of fishes (Petromyzon, Myxine, Synaphobranchus, Haloporphyrus, &c.), corals (Aleyonium, Acanthogorgia, (star-fishes) Crossaster, &c.), sea-feathers (Virgularia, Balticina), anemones, &c.; from the Grand Banks and other localities.
Spurr, Capt. Alfred, and crew, of schooner J. F. Wonson. Specimens of starfishes, anemones, ascidians, hydroids, &c.; from off Chatham Island, Mass.
Stacy, Fred. A large smelt (Osmerus mordax), taken in Squam River.
Sweet, Capt. William, schooner Grace C. Hadley. Specimens of fishes (Sebastes), star-fishes, sponges, crabs, shells, &c.; from George’s and Brown's Banks.

<<<Page: 110>>>

Washington, D. C.--Continued. U. 8. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries—Continued.
Thompson, Capt. William, and crew, of schooner Magic. Specimens of capelin (Mallotus villosus), sea-feathers (Pennatula, Virgularia), corals, star-fishes, &¢.; principally from Banquerean.
Trevoy, Capt. Edward, and crew, of schooner Procter Brothers. Specimens of sea-anemones and barnacles; from Grand Banks.
Vibert, Capt. John, and crew, of schooner Argonaut. Specimens of sponges, shells, bryozoans, crustaceans, &c.; from the Grand and Western Banks.
Wadsworth, Capt. Thomas, and crew, of schooner Conductor. Specimens of Norway haddock (Sebastes marinus), and a perfect individual of a rare fish (Scopelus sp.), that was washed on board the vessel; from the Grand Banks.
Wells, Capt. Michael, schooner Water Spirit. Specimens of star-fishes and seaspiders; from Western Bank.
Wiltiams, Frank. A fine specimen of bill-fish (Scomberesox saurus) ; from the Squam River.
Wilson, Charles. Egg-cases of the shell-fish (Sycotypus canaliculatus) ; from Providence River.
Wilson, Henry, schooner Flash. Specimens of boring-sponge, sea-anemones, warty sea-rose, ( Urticina), star-fishes, shells, and three Kittiwake gulls, (Rissa tridactyla); from the Grand Banks.
Wilson, John J., schooner Polar Wave. Specimens of fishes (Centroseyllium, Centroscymnus, Synaphabranchus, Lycodes,) corals (Primnoa, Paragorgia, Acanthogorgia, Acanella, Aleyonium, Anthromastus), star-fishes, sponges, anemones, &c.; from George’s Bank.
Wonson, Everett P. A fine collection of several varieties of bryozoans (/lustra, &c.,) taken by schooner Reporter on the Grand Banks; also a rare holothurian from off Gloucester.
Wonson, John F. A large boulder covered with bryozoans, shells, hydroids, sponges, &c.; from George’s Bank.
Wonson, Samuel G., schooner John S. McQuinn. Specimens of fishes, (Phycis, Patinurichthys, Lophius, Squalus, Petromyzon), and samples of mackerelfood (Scomber scombrus), taken off the coasts of Maine and Massachusetts.
Woodbury, Capt. J., schooner Barracouta. Rock covered with Warnacles, hydroids, sponges, and shells from the George’s Bank.
War Department:
Signal Service. (See under the names of Privates EL. W. Nelson and LL. M. Turner.
Surgeon-General’’s Office, Army Medical Museum. Specimen of snake from Fort Davis, Tex. (See also under the names of Drs. R. T. Burr, Elliott Coues, B. J. D. Lrwin, and Hospital Steward A. Gecks.
Surveys west of the one-hundredih meridian (Capt. G. M. Wheeler in charge). Sixty-four boxes of minerals and voleanie rocks; a large collection of birds’ skins, eggs, and nests; specimens of mammals, fishes, reptiles, and insects.
United States Army. (See under the names of General W. T. Sherman, General M. C. Meigs, Col. A. G. Brackett, Lieuts. H. Metcalfe, S. M. Swigert, J. P. Jefferson.)
Wasson, Hon. John, surveyor-general Arizona. Specimens of minerals of various mines in Pinal, Pima, and Yamapai Counties, Arizona.
Wayman, J. F. Small box of fossils from West Virginia.
Webb, John S. Specimens of shells from Kentucky.

<<<Page: 111>>>

Weigel, John. Specimen of hair-snake (Gordius aquaticus.)
Wells, Capt. M. and crew, of schooner Water Spirit. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Wheatley, Charles M. Specimens of ininerals.
Wheeler, Capt. George M., U.S. A. (See Washington, D. C., survey west of the one hundredth meridian.)
Wheeler, L. R. Specimen of mineral.
Whitney, Oscar M. Catlinite figure-pipe (lent for casting).
Widman, Otto. Nests and eggs of Empidonax traillii and EF. acadicus.
Wilkinson, E., Jr. Box of beetles; from Central and South America.
Willcox, Joseph. A box of minerals; from Pennsylvania. Crystals of staurolite; from Georgia.
Williams, Charles. Living snake (Cyclophis estivus). ‘
Williams, Rev. C. Foster. Collection of stone relics (lent for examination)
Williams, Frank, through Procter Brothers. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Williams, Joseph. Malformed hen’s egg.
Wilson, Charles. (See Washington, D.C., United States Fish Commission. )
Wilson, Henry, schooner Flash. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission. )
Wilson, John I., schooner Polar Wave. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.
Wilson, R. A. Specimens of minerals; from Ohio.
Wiltheiss, C. T. Two inscribed tablets ; from Ohio.
Windom, Senator William. Specimens of ore; from Minnesota.
Wingate, Dr. J. D. Specimens of fossils ; from Pennsylvania.
Woltz, Willie. Specimens of fish (Acipenser oxyrhynchus and Lepidosteus osseus); from the Potomac River.
Wonson, Everett P. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.) 2
Wonson, John F. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Wonson, Samuel S., schooner John S. McQuinn. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Woodbery, Capt. J., schooner Barracouta. (See Washington, D. C., United States Fish Commission.)
Woodbury, Eldridge. Specimen of vertebrae of whale; from Massachusetts.
Wood, John E. Specimen of soapstone; from Virginia.
Wood, Preston. Specimens of stone relics; from Ilinois.
Woodward, A.J. Specimens of living snakes and skins of rattlesnake Crotalus adamanteus) ; from Florida.
Wooldridge, George. Tail of ray; from Florida.
Wooldridge, Mrs. Two small living alligators; from Florida.
Wooster, A. F. Specimens of birds’ nests and eggs, and arrow-heads.
Worthen, C. i. Two boxes of birds’ skins.
Yarrow, Dr. H. C., U.S. A. Living snake (Heterodon platyrhinus), from New Jersey.

<<<Page: 112>>>

Yates. Dr. L. G. Human crania, &e., from cave in Alameda County, California.
Zimmerman, G. W., through F. G. Galbraith. Carved stone head of Indian design; from Pennsylvania.
Unknown. Specimens of minerals from Virginia, Georgia, &c.; specimens of fish (Raia and Diodon); two living owls (Bubo virginianus) ; arrow-heads, celts, &c.; insects, cocoons, &e., and plants.
A . —_ . So | 2s ei Es Country. Sales cies Se)e) | KS) cS a4)63 | © ps fico ||) [= AMERICA. AT centine! COnlederauionese seen ee aioe em ciale slelste sininlsieiwiesel aie cinisieeia el iateiaato oc 3 2 5 TET PETE RE CASAL SSSR BAR ORE EE CONC SCE eae eo BOCES RA eSB CDSE DSRS SORT EOC EAE ESSE aac rric Ul ee eee it! Barbadoes 2ii|(aiseice 2 Brazil eee 3 al 4 British Guiané S| sisepe 1 Wanad ars sac a Sec co ae ee eee ee ens Se aeacia ne clos nae s desea secnces ceciseaesisesae s|Socnule 2 2 OB Ts Sas Sac ais a anwio ciel e oe caren ae ete ore cinta eels we Sal nla sininle wWasieiuiolnie wo ale See oe eemiccs aces 2 1 3 WOStAP RICE: sos s cts siaccsccinmem we ce sarees wale cise cic wcisme Sie cin en an nine sloiniote eee ci abiniens Teles 1 Om basses os.sse vctaic wro‘elsiniwin cio el alecineis ste cislaa Neldaislewisla ciseeicie a easel aelo aoe ne sea ee eee Silieasoes 13. AS CUIA COL 2 ooro o.oo = ee eee ee ots a ua chen le wise stecluelsein Suis Seieeeaacadaetacinn: Ba nese 3 Guatemala sas cc = vnct etcetera eine alee natn icinte eave conic detects saat essa ce ainsi a | eres 1 TAG ete hoe ses coe alee etree eee eee ee el Soren id tie eiln/o mn iwiaicissc oa cibmjels ceteleiataisie, clereiest eigerrel a 1 1 CAIMNAICA oe ca\x'= = oa a1a'e cyan aetatela cise oele ioee/seleie oan isierarmrs © aatn mn cieleisisinis sare deeysimaccce ee Wissncee iL INT ONT CONS carsales ata cece meclale one eae ee Sa eee ioe eine cons eects Goewiclstainit eS aisiersiaciatoe care aisiee 4 1 5 SE LNOMBS!-wcerinc csc cic coms masons eens alee oaraelelue ac wohnn eicin a aiwicie Seles cin wisieecismeeeeees ‘lt hesaae 1 ES TELTDT Chek see eres ae ne one tara ae ae ie tee alcia a ce wae alate een te wins Seta oinia a alomroeicsciais Dh ees 2 (Ur OA sao 2 2 sa ce than eee eines ale os ces ci Sesto tees aoe aa see eocwle eee slows cei y Lael Pee es = 1 Umitedi states (Ol: COlompia mere sates ee aoe eiststotoiteieic inias et ererelelsleloeinine snes wise we ie micmieier Ng leer 1 WiON OZ EI Aya se eases crore eee ae Sarat nese icin os cin Ss crecntincteian se ocmaand ascend al 1 2 DWieSTINGIES Sococeccccs ene eee cnaeeees FSR EE CRB RO BUCO Or On BORE AC merece Pl ssaes 1 ASIA PAPA oomos cso c alanis amie eepincisswsccieaeee e ecice suis seb acw ccbclecisescleciijsese lassie sees 2 1 3 AUSTRALIA. iNew, south; Walests tan aars coos sae o ee omnes cece ies creetriors deine esis sin ate elevate sinaia Sait 2 1 3 INEM AY ASCH EWG be ace SUS ES CBAs Ob OSE OCR OS eee CEES Eee nen aes e acne Semen 3 1 4 @ueensland 22 esas ses ee ee laos as waco ceatwaccoe scicteeonccceeestcslessscceccn-|meesee 1 1 pouch Anistralia cos cece cose eee eee ees Meee een see aceite acon cee ose eee 1 i 2 PLE SINAIN Dniester ere (oat tote ie oe ara eae oe eee ee eee rse Sans tals leeeneeronl| eens 1 1 BVAC TODA ope cece ee eee er ee atlas Semmes eoeeon suuciuen ce teeee ae aieccoecaueans 2 1 3 EUROPE. Bol OMIM: «or «vice tisel tose ee eee aaa eee wnOacde se os eee se ees cele aeco eae seer 5 1 6 LOGS Ny ae ene eer OA ES aT LE in Bed Sere eee Se Oe ae ee ee a ee ee eee NS ees 4 10 14 EQTAN Ce Sec ions Soe cee enero ee oe aie eo Seana to ee oe rear le seis ea ne Sees ae eee eee 29 11 40 Germ amy.an di ASE estas as oe iste aa ee Pena ate ate cieiee se coe eo see meeeieine lense 63 14 77 (CoRSy i cS uy ehh ea ee ae saan De ee ee ee eee ne arenes spar a ae On eseees 52 (EEE C RGAE OS EG Ee hen NTIS oe ee a rR pees Ree MRD ee pe 2 1 > LECT pes ee eR raps ae id ae i a Be oP Peer ert ton doeseod oct mbe SHIR aoe 13 ING EU SSE Senne Ree enone San tetas aan ee a aa ae tie a ete ge IE Se ee esate 7 1 8 IS RT Eh ee era een i eae ee a SoS ore ae ee A A Oe Conor coro cenoator 3 1 4 TEC) ait FT le ee a eM oe, SS ya ees U eee nO ae te Ee ae ey eae SE Ce ae 3 1 4 CES OS GaSe a Ia ae ee meer ai I RS a See SEPA Ootoonoon oee LO) |teeeee 10 nS) SERED es Gee SS Ee, ed Cay ee eee A ee a eee ee ee 3 1 4 SUE See I pe | ee La ee ae ae eee ee et 7 1 8 Celine Er (6 eS a le ei a eS a pt an el Se ad A a ot as Ph el 7 1 8 PRICY cia cscn ee = cine aaa eo inneee nce iseisiesele Saceee ee bein sae ele eecam es aaes ual 1 2 RECA PITULATION MTGE CE pan COREE EB OOM DS EMGET O75 DD DE. CO SOLO CE ERR O CE REE Ero en Oa sate eee 32 9 41 BABI DM sok te eee: ope 6 mw re eae Naa ceteris chee ae SOE tn brctia onidias au aeeS 2 1 3 PAnstraliaasl $220: ii 5.23 ee eee fa tis Ba oe Ste os Rae ee oa rere aise ce Melos 8 6 14 BS UITO DO tre ee eee cine ee ee Re EE a ey odspcicierc eee 209 44 253 EO Gauls etettere sala = co eet ene arate ee a ech onc eS CR EA soa ain aja fate’ alcieteiesore 251 60 3ll
* The list of Smifhsonian exchanges for Canada is contained in the report on domestic exchanges.
Note.—Number of boxes, 311; bulk in cubic feet, 2,177; weight in pounds, 69,975; containing 14,659 miscellaneous packages, of which 25 contained specimens of natural history.

<<<Page: 113>>>

1879. | 1879. ALABAMA. | District oF COLUMBIA—Continued.
Tuscaloosa: _ | Washington—Continued.
Alabama University ....-...-.-..-.---....-AG COrporsuionvokCluyeesose] eee ase ese se ee ree F 1 Geological Survey of Alabama.......--..-2Z'|| Education, Bureau of .-..--..----..--------| 24 | Engineer Burcu j<ft(cone tae ere 12
ARIZONA. Entomological Commissionl— eee eee eeneee il
iPrescotte | Geological Survey of the Territories .....-. 100
Shots : 9 | Governor of the District of Columbia -....-.il Territorial Library -----.-----20---+0----= Hy drosraphiciOticeceas.=s2babe ee ee eeee 16
mae IndianiGommMissioners\e.o.sss2 =o asses eee ee 3 SSNS AS: | Interior’ Department: 2.2). ssmee ae ee eee eee 19 Holly Grove | Land Offi 4 3
2 anc COG sens Bacaen acti esse neeeesae ae tberacye ln Shi GUte y=. eceee sme cee eee ee |) Tuibrary of Congress): =.c2se<s-a-6oees ee 30 Little Lock: bicht-House board :=sencceer a peesee cee Seeeer 7
eaverce OAT Kansasieeeeeaemeeeas ae eae eee 40\/eMiarine Eos pital. cam come e ee see cere eee 2 Statevlaibrany ees sate ane naan So Mint Dine ctonOtests eee eee eee neces 6 | National Academy of Sciences oo ie eee 103 CALIFORNIA. Nationa VinSedmbereeees eee ester eae i
Oakland: | eNaatical Almanic cscne seers sss=eereen eames 11 WUiniversivyon Calitomiat-ssssesseeeeeceeee a2 | 2 eee ine oe py saved vadneade Yi Psy ee
Sacramento : ile ae ; pose ni WE soe scosccanspesosce ‘ Agricultural and Horticultural Society -..-. 3 || 0 ae HO Gars TRIPS RES es WS 55 Cee eae 5 Medical Society, of California 2... . 7-222 2 Dll Pat POT 9 a a eter eC 51 Sfate Acricultural Society...............-.. 2 atent Office. ...-. peer oor osptoges ease ee ;
>) || ebtlospphicaliSocietysese sss rere seer 3 State Librar NSE Ro ERED SOS eB See SEES: eee I ; aaa | Provost-Marshal-General -..---..----------1
San Francisco : | 40 eA\cademiy, Of Selon CES eae eeee eee ee neEeee ne: 105 || elena! i OS a 1 California Historical Society .........-.-..-1 || Chater erian Business College ---------------6 Mercantile Library Association ..........1 || State Department. ..---.--.----------------4
3 5 5) || PoabishiCSsburean Of o-ceeese ences ae 20 (CEOlOsicaliSocictyeeeceee rene eee een 2 || ae seca tai OR 63 Geological Survey of California. -----.....-| | ea geon-Ci neral’s Office --.-.---------2----3
Saar aiaa Treasury Dees sonesaeacoerseso tee see 11 SAS SNA Pe OF War Department Bens SodoS dU eS aamoneeoos = Society of Natural History...............--. 5 | Washington Sentinal con; bec ste eons ma i
Denver : ey ep Tallahassee :
Agricultural Society----------...--.----.-.. 1 || Academy of Tallahassee .....-.------------1 Governoniof Colorado messes aeeeee tees eee 2 Verritorialwialbrarye=e eece ee cece ees 2 GEORGIA.
Golden: | Savannah :
Schoolon Mineste-eeee a eee eee Se 2 || Historical Society of Georgia ...--....-.---4 Atlanta: CONNECTICUT. Cityghibranyeeess cco see ee res ee ee eae 1
Hartford : LAY Board ot A griculture Bo eee eect netaine 1 ILLINOIS.
Connecticut Society of Natural History. ---1 | Carbondale : State Agricultural Society ...........-....-. 1 || Southern Illinois Normal University......-. 1 Young Men’ sdiistitites0 oss unten ae 1 |] Chicago :
Middletown : Academy of Science) 22. 4-----eee seen see 108 Wiesloyani Collec eye ereme-= = eeert een neaee= 2 || American Electrical Society --...-----:----1
New Haven: eAlstronomicall Society. sees ssss see sen aceee 8 American Journal of Arts and Sciences..--.| 72 || Board of Trade ........._-..-.-.-----+-----1 American Oriental Society ....2........... 39° || Dearborn!Observatory ~-----+---5-5s--e bese | 2 Connecticut Academy of Sciences ......-..-. 164|| ree Dibrany: ) 502225855: ote sseine nee 4 Sheffield Scientific School.............--.--2)|| Museum of Natural History <---.-------<-23 ait Gein or Aoricultiine 222 seeeee ee ene e ee 2 MODSSLVERLOLY) sono. o0 anos ae toes Vaneeaeeee a
HS) OC QUIC ES 0 Se ates co oacusosSosanorbaac ATs MED bea brary sess on tae eee eee eee Yale College Observatory. -----.:..2%-2:.-21 || Society of Natural History---.----2--------2 | MOPVELS Ty. tei A) * 2 898 oe ene kee eee emtoree 1 DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. | State Microscopical Society. ...-..------.-Galesburg :
Georgetown : Academy Of MUSIC, sean -5 ae eal | i Georgetown College *--=: -.-2-.-2-..--. me 6") Gomibard! University. .-=. Me so. en wee 8 Georgetown College Observatory .........-2 || Moro:
Washington : | American Pomological Society....-...-...--5 Agricultural Department -................. 119 || Normal: r American Medical Association...-........-37 |, State Natural History Society ....-.-..----15
: y y Army. Medical#Museumiis.c. ooecccwssescen =e 6 || Rock Island: ‘Botanic !\Gardénescss-. seer eee eae ee cea 1|| “Augustana College. 22.0. ssceee es -<eeeee 1 Coast Sarvey fasete 5 cee seers aan oe 53 | Springfield: Census Bureau 22.4. See ed 1 Geolomical Survey con... > saceseen a eee 2 Columbian University °-222.222 .2....--2 |i State Board of Agriculture........--.------1 Construction, Bureau of (222.2122 52260122222 Da Statedhibrary =e sea eens a neceeeee 1

<<<Page: 114>>>

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109 | 1879 1879. = } INDIANA. MASSACHUSETTS. Greencastle: Amherst : PAR bOryaOMLMCLSLUY ional ace eiele's [ame alale ome iain 1 ae Gnormic ‘al Observatory He cleticistse fete etesins i Indianapolis : Nolleteuaibranyeee eres sete cecil icteisias ienalarny CH SOONG) Eocsesopoose pos pauoscece all Massachusetts Agricultural College.-..---.1 (@eclscicallSocietyns seems sane See eene mee al Boston: Geological Survey of Indiana .--..--.------Gi PAcricultumaliSocietyess.----e seer =< === il Indiana Historical Society .--..--.---------2) American Academy of Arts and Sciences ...| 228 Pubinedsibranye nee 22 eee leat lam al 1 || American Gy naecologic al Society..---.----2 Richmond : | American Statistical Association. .....-.-..-. 1 Richmond Scientifie Association ......-..--. Te Artevinnsenniesss seer cen atce = eeeis eS eROROD 1 Boston Medical and Surgical Association -1 IOWA. BostoniOpservatotiye ssc eae ei asia laa 1 Davenport: 3oston Society of Natural. HTGSTORY Aces) atelier 314 r, ; Boston Wmiversitivssseccenseset ea cees vaenise ae i Academy of Natural Sciences. -...---------100)! Bowditch Teibrakyeeseee edie eee 2 Se EIS : | Commonwealth of Massachusetts ...-..----2 Norwegian Lutheran College......---------IW (aerate ree joys Gane = Cityelnilbrannye ssa eres acest Slats elefatara tar 1 Gon poe of toe si 4 | Library of Boston Hospital .-..-...----2 hey cece ti : The eal Si peor ee anger ae 5 || Massachusetts Historical Society....-----3 Riis Lib oor pO CeUYinss sas aan sae 1 || Massachusetts Horticultural Society --..--. 1 eyes wy aE Ee Ts a ce Lee Se Y 1 || achusetts Institute of Technology ..-.-2 . ae Poser stt3 Ae a ater th © eed OE KA | ichusetts State Board of Agriculture.. 3 UE || Massachusetts State Board of Charities. ..-.. 1 sh, eS OB SE IGOR NOAH EEE cco es ‘ || Massachusetts State Board of Health ....--6 Stat Hist Uys ene » ||: Massachusetts State Library .....---....--13 ane Uni SS hee ened beac as Came 17 | Medical and Surgical Journal. ....--..-.. 14 SOMES LOIS SPN Seen SSCS SBS COC Sr oe | New England Historical and Genealogical Sere SOCLOb yaaa see lee eee see erate aia atetnycreta ovate sierra 3 ESAUNS INS IZ OVE al Og comteo eek ooaNooase adoSHDeKeSDS 48 Leavenworth : Sanitary Comimissrony ssa settee cielelee laters 1 Kansas Academy: of Music:----:----5------I MiSphanienoye UAC eHUEHO.: bses ledasescopneseeeooDS 1 Kansas State Academy of Science ....-.--.-1 || Worcester County Horticultural Society... al Topeka : Cambridge : I<angas HAstoLical SOCLebyjeca seeteeeleeris mes eler 21 Rn tomolo creole Chiubpeertsstalsees seeretas -rcieiete ese 1 ahaa gel Coll errs eo asneaos caouno ae scCponeccd 59 KENTUCKY. Harvard College Observatory ------.-..-2-.. 33 Frankfort: | Lawrence Scientific School. 22: 22202 2.2 22. 1 ents diye . Museum of Comparative Zoolog 135 > Oe’ urvew i ¢ ee aad ey of Kentucky. --...---.--wall Setenlnotiby Mipissitilu ss toe seadign skibanocebbnoos 15 SEER a COR 7 Jamaica Plain: ide ety 3 alc || LF Petr ica Sock ty of Kentucky ------------A | BUSSE ENS GUL ONG nace seeteemelcca cee ate 9 Desens Ma a, oa pele ceaten Ue Logan Pemale College .-----..--.-.......-.. 1 | ut hate Dear T via ae ae L : = Literary and Philosophical Society. ---.--.--1 LOUISIANA, : ; : ’ Penekese Island : Baton Rouge: AM Cersonr och OOle ea y.ccmsnte noes: ay ersisloctatse 1 SLE) MONA CHIEN Ma pane cdo scepedsoodobeccdod 3 Salem : New Orleans: || American Association for the Advancement New Orleans Academy of Science. ....-.----SO lea OlpSClOn CC sean apc. See inne ees eames 58 Statewlbibrarygeaecses ccc ae oscar sisters e's Aol PB SSexe INS tUGUGe eee sarees eiseaia laraiat a insta eyel 111 eR CADOGyeA Cad Cmiye see alent memat ee cteisecis 131 MAINE Wellesley : Ty » va] >, Vs G4 oo oO Augusta: Wellesley College......----.-------+-------1 Commissioner of Fisheries ..........---.-+-2 | erasers TARE GUO AG DD INGE) Cocco ue cane te 5 || American Antiquarian Society.---.--------13 : US aoe ce neg er Sea nc rs eas sup techn olocicallnstituucsseeeeeemeeemaeee er 1 Brunswick : Bowdoin Collepewccw. n= onc scenes cteoees 4 ACTOR Lewiston: j { | aoe Natural History Society. ----1 | Ann Arbor : nes High School and Academy.-.....-----------|| Goes epee eau of Michigan ..-....-.---. ae Porta : Unis ( eae vf VITO rane eee ean ar tern h 9 Portland Society of Natural History .--..--. 42 || C Sina Cie Cabin rae pase slt pe hy Saco: ey es eee aa eae save VIOMICMIN GUL TELCO! => cetrenioeinetios emacs en stee 1 i Michigan Library Association ..-...-------6 Waterville: \| mites ae a eet oye . || Geological Survey of Michigan ............. 1 BOM YODA CTS Cy a 6 i State Aecricultural Society een ae tone ws 15 mince | Lansing : be eho || State Agricultural Society.........-..-----1 Annapolis : 0 State Board of Health .........---+-.-2.-0-29 Ue Ohne COC TC) ncaa setae lari aL | Sheine). | Cilio Bs ee eeneacedernd seoedoumenee 2 United States Naval Academy.........-... 1 Baltimore : MINNESOTA. American Journal of Mathematics......---. 2 PNCACCIOVTOL SCLC CES Herren eer isetaisetie ai: 8 | Minneapolis : Historical Society of Maryland Bete foicia2 ein 4 || Minnesota Academy of Sciences.......-.-.. 18 Johns Hopkins University ..............-22 | Saint Paul: Mercantilosbtbrary).sssscsceee oe erie me. oe J || Academy of Natural Sciences............... 3 Penbodymimstitute. seesn sees een snes LSP Guamberion 'C OmMeCECC. 2225 ecetiewie aetna 1 Superintendent Public Instruction.......... 1 || Minnesota Historical Society............--.. 8

<<<Page: 115>>>

Big KO) APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
1879. | 1879. MISSOURL New York—Continued. Columbia: New York City—Continued: Geological Survey of Missouri. .-.---------3 || American Society of Civil Engineers ---.---. 4 WNUVETSib ye OLevOSSOUNl= = 9-5-5) >= ieee LO, PA Stor LA DraLYy cc ccc cece ale see wists S secieacreaiatcte 50 Jefferson: Columbial College se. estes este essence eee ee 9 Geological Survey of Missouri-------------8) || BCooperiU Mion 22 s0-sc osea a =e ee ee ea L Governomotelissourieeee ste -eeeeseeeee eee 2 || Engineering and Mining Journal .--...----14 Historical Society of Missouri.--------.---it | MElistorical sOci¢tyser a -er eer eeeee=r eee ee ee 4 State Board of Agriculture ..-...--...-.---4 || Insurance Department. .--...-..----------=il Kansas City: Wenoxelnibramy) © sansee ence sect ee ae ees 5 Western Review of Science and Industry -1 || Mannfacturer oar Baildeneae pence cere 9 Rolla: Modi caluSocletyaer aston se see eee ae eee eeee 1 Missouri School of Mines .....-------.-----1 || Mercantile Library Association..........-.2 Saint Louis: Meteorological Observatory. -.--------------3 Academy of Sciences. .---<.---.----<-------169 || Metropolitan Museum of Art.........-..--19 Mercantile Juibrary ss... == eat al 3 || Museum of Natural History -..---...--..... 16 Polytechnic Department of the Washington New York Academy of Medicine ........---. 3 Winiwensiiyeeeec ee eee eee aieiale ree raraie 1 || New York Medical Journal..-..Seca deaiae 1 nbc) SCheolwkibraryee reese pee 2 || New York Statistical Society -..----.---..-iL University. --..----------------------------P|) BC e SOUS Uh) “Sos cocSbb apodgeoaboncosodc i Numismatic and Archeological Society. ---. 6 NEW HAMPSHIRE. IPTISONEASSOCIAMON geese ee seen see erie 2 Concorde Public Senos! S0ClC bY sen eneae meee eee a New Hampshire Historical Society .----.--. 4 Sale; Rae Ariori Gain, [eis 3c se ome a ca ea ug New Hampshire State Lunatic Asylum..--. 1 Sohoe 1 t Mine Lot, PP RAOEG ce i Be ; Hanover Shelby afi Civil leet ncoratoss iia: neue ri X LOA of) fA EPI RAO IIIT I IOI OOO i pau cet a re Tone Tae ae g University of New, York ----.--.-----2. 4 Deon cern a mae eae ee Cr are United States Sanitary Commission. .------. 3 a , Poughkeepsie : SENSES NG Vassar Hemale College.-----.--..-5....-.--. 3 Burlin gton: Syracuse : Geological Survey of New Jersey .-..-----il |i) (Ohobiyeresti ny ceseGo see ossmeqoSacoss sascconso* 2 Hoboken: Troy: Stevens Institute of Technology. -....-..--. 8 || Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.......----3 Mount Holly: West Point: Burlington County Lyceum of SON and United States Military Academy.....-.----. 3 Natural SClONCCS eres teeta er se eect 1 Jewark : < . Historical Society of New Jersey. ----etwas 1 Soe eae New Brunswick: Raleigh : Geological Survey of New Jersey. ---------An States Gl bra ea eee ise eee 1 Rutger’s Scientific School .-.....-..-.--.--1 Princeton : = OHIO College of New Jersey.--------------------22 Alciviminviins Green School of Science ----.-----.----.---1 Anthropological Society -..--.-.-.-.--------1 : Cincinnati: SEARS American Medical College ---...-----2-=---1 Albany: Historical and Philosophical Societiy------1 PAU bammplms tun be ese met setae letter 16} }]) Wilkes ep saynd yO yh yh ae se ceoeneoecossoogaonc 1 Adirondack Survey Office....-...----------HUW COUSIN? 5 once comseeendhod sooadeaacansae 39 Wadley Observatory: sesessess--esee eee eee 1S} |(PPabliethibrarys sc. acces eeeen a= eee 3 GovermmorioreN ew, on Cie eet amen eee een aet 1 || Society of Natural History -.----. siceseceesa 11 New York Literary Society..-......--..-... i) -ZoolocicaliSociety =-----+e--ee= eee eae 1 New York Medical Society -----------...--1 Cleveland : New York Museum of Natural History. .--. 7 || Academy of Natural Sciences .......---.--. 9 New York State Agricultural Society .-.--. 44 ||| Kirtland Society... <0... = s2-ceen---e meee 5 New York State Cabinet of Natural History. il, ||] GRACIA -concoeSancnognSoosensoc SeaaeS1 Regents of New York University....-....-.5 Columbus : Statesibraryeese: sees eases eae see ane 58 || Geological Survey of Ohio.........---...--. 5 Brooklyn : Horticulturalsocietyesesssces= eee ease 1 Broolynlibraryse--ee soeeee eee eee eee 1 || State Agricultural Society.......-..-..--... 22 Long Island Historical Society.--...---..--. 1 || State Board of Agriculture .........---..... 26 Buffalo: hate Mu PLaAR nee see same soca eteanlae= = armies 5 Bunalopeistonieall Society: s-----\c-== === 1 Delaware : Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences..-..-.--. 99 || Ohio, Wesleyan University.........-.......-2 ODSGRUMOb Vee eee een eee ceeeer 1 Gambier : Olinton : IkenyonCollones--sees=see=e eee sees aaa neae 1 Hamilton College Observatory ..-.-..------. 4 Tihaca: PENNSYLVANIA. Cornell Umiversityie-.s--c seem eee eee 10 |; iach es New York City: Allegheny : Academy Of) SClONGCS-=== ceer er. senoeene 1425 Obsemuston yi, sss sisc pete cios =a See eee uf American A oTiGOLUUIIS hte ie ees 1 || Socicty of Natural Sciences of West PennAmerican Chemical Society-.--.-.-----..... 10 SV EVAMM = 1s Joc eee ee eee eee seme 1 FAMerican) © DEMIS tesa see eee meee sae ae Hf Bethlehem: American Ethnological Society ...---.-----6)|| PackeriUmiversityies sa. sees eee = =r 6 American Geographical Society .-.----.---89 Carlisle: Amorican) Instittees= se. s-— aa seen 30 || Carlisle Society of Literature......-.--.---. 1 American Institute of Architects....-...... 7 |i Easton: American Journal of Microscopy ....-.----1 |! Institute of Mining Engincers..---..---.--. 8 FARMCRICAM IN ato Tals tess ale ee ean ae 1 |} Germantown: American Public Health Association ....... 2! Germantown Literary Association .....---1

<<<Page: 116>>>

PENNSYLVANIA—Continued. Harrisburg: Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. Slate AcriculturaliSociety------------== Shittrey IDRC Aes oo conee nconbDeacoSRneaded Lewisburg : (Ohta tine eOe co cosocobeHoad Goose SdeosRoAnaS Media: Delaware County Institute of Science.-..--. } Philadelphia: Academy of Natural Sciences .--.--.2...... American Entomological Society .-.-..----. American Journal of Conchology..--.-----AMericaneN aboralists sess sae aes ele eeta American Philosophical Society -----------Board of) Public!Charities 2--+------<-<=: iboardiomelrad Greece eee aacee eases a iBoardiorsbublic Mducation s--2-----s+=. GentralbbashSchoolicssss22 -sae e s-e Branidhinwins Wuatereanaseane se cesses ene == Ide halighbe dik@ubweet ly S555 soca soososoon combdEde EI SLOLIGAll SOCIE bye aisle etaiaate eatatoe alela iHorhiculourall society eecsceeecee testes nee ee: lig penny (Caries 3 ioc SoS eso ooo scoouussabae Library of Pennsyly ania Mospitalieesses ee. Medical and Chirurgical Journal...--..-.--WedicallSociebys--\---<22 =~: sense ee aeee eo Medicale Rim este are(-cecmeae ee eeeeneteieiseiae Numismatic and Archxological Society Sead Observatory of Girard College ......----..-. Pharmaceutical Society. +-22-ss--e-see se
Royal Bavarian C onsulate . Society for Alley jating the XZiseries of Pub-
lic Prisons University of Pennsy Weal United States Mint Wagener Free Institute Zoological Society
Newport: Society of Science
Providence: AM ericansNaluralist) csr steeaeescaecinee sees IBNOW DAU MUCLS tye. eee anaes sere Rhode Island Historical Society
Charleston : Charleston Medical Journal and Review. Charleston Museum of Natural History Collegeloty Charlestonssses eee eee ee eee Elliot Soc iety of Natural History.......--.. MibTaLyasocleh ye sont eee eee eee wee South Carolina C ollege Librar 3;
South Carolina Historical Socie UN oe SRAae aoe
South Carolina Medical Association .....-.-Columbia:
NIOALO MIDE AL Yi ers aati ers aero ene sine ee eetcteetee ae
Knoxville:
Tennessee Philomatesian Soviety -........-. Lebanon :
Cumberland University. 2-ac6-s-2-0-4--<2<5 Nashville:
Historical Society of Tennessee...........-Shlveeailbranyesac cmsccne teeta er eens oe TEXAS.
Chapel Till: Soulé University...............SSCA ABAE VERMONT. Burlington : UMIVersitysOh WV OLMONt asens sheen eee eee e Castleton:
Orleans County Society of Natural Sciences. Montpelier : intesmabranyee. Uc ciseeeee eon eee ne oeeaee
1879. 1879. | VIRGINIA. a Charlottesville : 1 || University of Virginia .........----.-2-----10 2 |) Hampton: || Hampton Normal Institute .......-.-.-..--. 1 1 Lexington : || School of Civil Engineers .-.. ----Seacogners 1 14 |! New Market:
Polytechnic Institute ecicceeeiea = o--= niai° 1 276 |! Richmond : 56 || State Library .....-..----.2---6.-----------3
1|| Beloit :
< || Geological Survey of Wisconsin ...-....-..-. 2
3 || Galesville :
as Gales villenUmuversitiyges sateen otra steers i! ae || Inmanville :
9) ||| Scandinavian Society -.-...--.--.----------4
17 | Madison:
By || Acade MAY AISNE Sq 5s ooenaonacosopcoseS 83 24 || College of Arts, University of Wisconsin. 1 1s | Pastoricali Society... tease ce beeen ame Woe
8 || State Agricultural Society .--..--+.-..-.---44
: | HAST cee aq Soonsobandessosessas 1
12 | University of WiscorisinGseees te eee 2
ZI Milwaukee:
e | Natunhistorischer Vierein= <<. -<1/-1<1\-1-/l1=1= 18 28 || Neenah:
1 || Wisconsin Scandinavian Library........---4
at 1
9) Duhut, Canada :
25 || Scandinavian Citv Library..-------....-.... 1 || Fredericton, New Brunswick : | Legislative ibrarye (ies Soap Cee ean 1 || Mibrary, of Kings College: --22---.5. 2-5. 1 1 || University of New Brunswick .....-..-.-.--. 1 | Guelph, Canada: yg |, Ontario School ofAXoticnltorescsscsciecias see 1
9 |! Halifax, Nova Scotia:
4 | Department OP Manestessaes see sesaececeeeee 1 | Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sciences . 19 | Hamilton, Canada:
| Scientific Association ...........--2...2-e-4 \| Kingston. Canada:
1 || Queen's College Observatory...--....-...--i
1 || Montreal, Canada :
It CanadianeNaburalist -c sececete cies slemniecie= = 3
16 || Entomological Society of Canada..-....-.--. 1
2 | Geological Survey oMC@anadarescsereccsess20
ie} Eas foniCaleSOCleLyeeeee ema cme ie aciees\aqy== a 3
2 |i erislative JuoLbnaryess ceseesaceeee eee i
2 || L’ Union Médicale de Canada.--..--....-.--1 WeNic Gall Collier @n=sen ma esnin ee cera] -aanecaae 3
1 | Medical Association of Canada..........---2 ii MedicalRecordieessnsns ase mesee naan senor ee 1 | Medical and Surgical Journal_.....-......-. al | Natural History Society .-..-wousdebcdoobse 18
j | Numismatic and Antiquarian Society...--.. 1 i| Observatory <=. =-----: Bonoe 2
1 | Société ad’ Agriculture du ‘Bas, Canada... -.-il I Ottawa, Canada :
T i| Department OlpApriculturel ss asceseceie seen 1
9 || Library of the House of Commons .......--. al | MibranyOMeaATMaAmMenth seceh eriees cece 3 || Literary and Scientific Society. .-...-.....--3 Ht SnnrevoOrGeneralleenn seeass cect ccm cere eo aiee 1 | Quebee, Canada :
2 | Bibhothéque de la Province de Quebec ...-. 1 i) Geographical Society 2--./--02-2----.-sc<02 || Historical Society : nobudasésesdunas il | Histor vy and Natural History Society .......it
lWkavallilmiyersivyeasens sce acoso ceeeee. 2
1 | Literary and Historical Society .....--..---14
|| Literary and Horticultural Society.......--. 1
50 || Literary and Philosophical Society....-.--1 i Naturalist Canadien’. --°.<52-2 52-s.--cs--9 2.11 Observatory ........... ganangodécedcadé Sosee 1

<<<Page: 117>>>

Boirish AMERIcA—Continued.
Toronto, Canada: Canadian Entomologist ............----.--.Canadiana nstitule-kesece= coe seo aes Conadiammounialaass: secses cos smseSoeeeeeee Canadian Journal of Medical Science .......
@anadian Wan cet ssc... asiec 52-2 tone ae
Department of Marine and Fisheries.-...-.-. PNTOMOLO PICA SOC Eby, -seoneaceiete eae ae Truit Growers’ Association .....-..-.-----Houseiof Aissembly 52-1. <ceiae sentence Literary and Historical Society......-....--. Mapnetic Observatory «--..-------+s--c-ceee Meteor olomcaliOMcesssereeee-eseseeeeesee ee MDSEV ALOT ise eee ee nee eet Abrabanh np OMe yes So oocsoosebaccsossassaccs0= Diversity;.oi = weewesieb ed Sesh See cee WmnirersipyiCollerepcss+ so seeeeecoeeee eee
Saint John, New Brunswie Ie: Library of the Mechanics’ Institute.......-.
Saint John’s, Newfoundland : Geological Survey of Newfoundland .....--.
Total number of addresses .--.----------
Total number of packages ........-...-f
AD botie Drs Cs Cee see Fee pra ee PAdams Charles phytase caren e enone PAAR GIZ ETO RAL eee eee meee ee eee PAUiberdunah ns C.uNhy sceseceemeece tert ene
NI) sd fae: Cee ete cic ASE eters er eee PATIUPE WS LLU ren nee eee rene ee eee: PAST RONS SUV eee sees eee ate sree ere Bese ISP AIG aaa seenessac CoE ee te cece oe eioe B: aird, Sh Ni ct as seccseectedococsacuneapscecods
Barnard, Ga n.d. re SU oe oan IB ATM er CesTNEN Ig emcee ae eee gece ee ae nae Dames Hon W. woe aa eo eaten ag ere Barnes, IPROLESSOL ee aeae nas Secor ie seer oee BRASS CLE ELE Oree een re eens Bi Rasen EB acter: Vir see wae eee en te aarti epee Baxter, SOLS els eae i ae TS as ey Beecher, Rev. Charles ...--.-.....--.22scceeBell, Robe aL beer dda aeia cineca owe eucerena Bellows) Reveikl W ...s6c ce onan Dtonianana: Mrs skied bal aa ane eae Bertoni Stes. ee te nee Bessels, 10) 2 ORE oe ae SF Apc Billings, DENT Stce seeps see cee eee ene Binney, Wii Gin Sacto aanine Merten: Rein Bi ASTER eS) 85 op CWE Se ee RRR ES | GF oe Bland, Thomas Blandy, John FE. Blasius, Profe BSOU ee toe ee eee eee ae Bleasdale, tev. Cannon Bo: ardman, S. L
Tots Hagel U ae pended ‘Dr. F
Br Ga W. ie Pe Sn Ore ae eae Mee 3roughton, red Brow n, John C
B urge SS, Edw ie Burnett, Dr.'S. M Canby, W. M Carpwall, Mr Casamap, P Cerpmad, C 2.222224 Chamberlin, C. Wo een eon ss Chambe srlin, My Me
HB He NN HE WNHEHEEP He Eee
= c= =
a ios for)
bo CH NE HEHE EEE RHR HOHE Ee HOH ONE HEN HEN HEHE Eee Pee ee Oe eee oH
InpDivipuALts—Continued.
Clarkes ProfiSk 2: fee ccesae oe osc eneen e
Clarkson, Mi -22) 22225. eeeeneeen soos een ae
Ik@lanpoley Ei W's<-sscseesecesseeesecaseeeence
Clement. Mi. 2 shasta steed ace een sees
le@lintonn'Georgeswwieaneene. were e bee: osen eee
Cofin Prof: INE. Cicsase. coe eceee sae
| Conn, Dr. G. Piyzs boa See nee tebe eee es eee | @ope Promina.) Sen pie sdectdecckhdoee
Coues#Drib, 22. c<stiteesecsacee Cosa eee
Daniells, Prof. Wi Wi Secitwsicno ceeeee eee eee Davis: Admirals ess 532. 22. | see eeeeeeeee
Dawson Gui: cosceeececss cece aCe
| Gann ba Peis. Saat aa eas Cee ae Dinwiddie, Robert 22022 -ei-isb ss cab ebe ee
Dod Aw 4278S thee cle tela Dow: Capt.aIe We «<< o:,<.cmcteicte eee eee
| Downes diohns= nes secc sas: a: eee eee
Draper Prot. )icaas53 scan toc mebeeeeee eee ee Mraper serot. Mentyna. sesso eeeee eee eee Bastman,; Professor =. 22 52-<ccaseseeaoe eee
Eaton Ors): ©. oss cise ems oe acetates be CLIS OM AG tes oceet ees ee ene ene  Bdiwards.ew Jl ose. sts esos see eee eee
DUR pe Os 6) eee eae eee Se Te a te BMisherg; Dress o-\etee een ste eeeeecaeemaee Merson eeTOl eee e eae eee ACR RARE Ones
Emerson, Ben. Keres sie sia. sce eesaees Soa oa oe
HMM ONS os Hee ee eee cee elena ae eee
dy eerens (cane M62 2b Scoopsecocasadso Bese eos
Endeman, 1D) ats en eae See SSS Sees
BEITICSO nN ap tte Obits ecem eee ae moe emmee | Harlowaslenotaw) Gusceee eos eee ee eeee ones lihlorrell ProfuwWisescSer cots taco cee cece eee fy AG OAS «ee wer che Seieree aretacrae Sad eis Serene
Hisher~DraGels sees. wes eee Soe ee eee
ln: Hoerster sD OGtOl nas. seen eer ee anes
Hortin Peon Ve: .< 22c.0s2 case =e oe eee
| Hrémont, (General is). 5h-0o 2m. Je eee
Rranishin Captisak:o.assses ce =eeee ee eee Galbby Wai © ...2. 5 Sede e555. sceecececeseeeees Garman: Doctor. ch casascke a soe ee eereeee
pGanschet,eAllbertisic--ea==—=e a eaeee (WGren Gly eA oo <> a:=. cen ccinn cee eee ee eee |
Gerard) Doctor. << -:<=.5-4<ssnlocmce ese
Gib Dap Mir ems od.< ucts oe Seems ca eniee wee eee Gul beth Gul’ . <5 s2. cree decene aoa cee seers Gaull MP rots INy2 6 See oat ero te sete reccre eee
(Gul pny OVeTNOLes see aoe eee eee eos Gilovererownsend’=.-.. 5... es<.cces le tenes Goode, Prot GBrowse eee eee Goottiellow; Wd! sicsastecn oe sn cco oe eseaeas
GrardProt, AS... <cs05encceee snemacne Seat
Gray OW. (6 SOD cccpk ccc se ees soa Greene Giental (ists coe wince nee eee eames @mriswold)S:/Bssk-= teen eee cee or ee Gross! iDr:'S: D's. c.t conte cs coneceuekeeeaeee
i Guttenberg, |G ..i2c.c asics. sins cvcean toes
Guyot, Prof. A. 2. 2205.22. snc Mce oe see ene
HELAP ONE POL cA. Ee s25eeeeeeeeeeeae WeallaPror:.A: -; <<. oc cae. Geen e cence eee
HalisProtiwW ames. son. cocoate cee ec eee Hammond, [. ID a aeepacccaesaor Set aceboson.
||pelamperBrothers.<5..0ccctmue sees a 252 een
seeretera W 2 SSCL cee eee or. oe Sees
el cell el el Nl I el lh el cell ml cell el eh cl el ch el SS hl el ch ces A lh cee lh lS eh el el ee el ce el Sh el el 2 ce ce ho el ed el el
jul, ped
te wee
SHH HEED H e

<<<Page: 118>>>

InpDIvIpUALS—Continued.
Hilgard, Prof. J. E Hill, G. W Hillebrand, E HNP rolnWee Ws ose oe = cae setoele cence cece ING See LOL Grad: ose encase eee eee In TICHSPeELO tt Gi. a0 oes ese eee eee eae Hitchcock rofessor-=--<<-ssee=-ssee nee ne EN GZ PLLON NI OON eae ao. cease crea siacee Hort, Rev. 0. J Holden, Prot. E.'S ....... Holmes, Nath LOTION Ge oe bocce cee ees Seseisemeec Ee LOLS is eee cc atc eee acne cies clenaeeusee ces OUP Bs Biss xleeces cicniciesicc'eis so mie'= sects cicystsiete Houghton, Osgood & Co. . LOW Obs Ob eee eerarccc ce Hiihne, Julian Huart, Abbe uart, Wictor!=--2.8 pace ss cise sew nase oes Humphreys, General A. A... -..-. 2.2... -----. Hunt, Dr. Ch. O Hunt, Dr. Sterry Jackson, M Jarvis, Dr E VODNSONAELOls dG lasesosacs as eases ceca =e RLONES AGS Ose eee eae eae cee (arenes ones, Dri J alattihewre--ace ese sieea care nysisi POT MAN SE LrOL yD Pat acne see ee ee eeniee Cap pe Walliamnis 2: so ost tac eeacieie ses ae KelloyssNorman! Caos sacar cee tae seialae BOTT MW) 1 Oo aie Sooners eee eee es ee se ee 16Ch 001] 070 NE ea Cae ge a US eo aa King werorclarencencscesteeenecce Ree ae Kinostony Prot de De csemocncacmeiasesccisceee Kirchloff, Theodore Krohn, Rev. J Langley, Professor Mawrencey GeorgeuNisn.. ses scqeeinessee= = hea, Dr. isaac, .--.Bie tate einen eke orstees oe erences ei Conte; Doctor. 2=.a4 secs senses se eos nace COW DOE MW lla Se cee eee See ee tee are Meidy; Drxdosep hie sancee secon eee ke see Lesley, Professor Lesquereux, Leo TOse (ofa Tu) Dia Se eRe ear ie cine aCe ae ae
ROOMS TOL an. coae eee seer eee ce cleeeine iyman Erotabasteceeenes
McCosh. President. .........
Mallett, J. W Manigault, Prof. G. E IMarsliiProfiOnCmesssceneeentet teens ae Martin, Prof. H. N : Warx Mail Gasser oo nce eee meen churn Mason, Prof. O. T Matile, G. A MEntiUne Wa Gr My alanine cnieeeeeeene ASSRICHOROOEE Meigs, Dr. J. Aitken MevervAbraham)..-ss2esee sees cceessne Miller, S. A Mitchell, 1 Mivery GenerallAs din nese cose a eomecceoeeo. NIC WAS VON 4c, orenaaa seen een eb eee ccs Newberry, DT: Ji.) sccionsmectneereotoee cect NGwcOmbps rots Si _eoserecenen cee eee aeons INGWibODN EU son.2ss,. \cceaee ace mes + Newton Prot: EevAS so ce soe ceo Sones neeeonee Nipher, F. E IN) ET Ld eR ge Se a ee Nordhoff, Ch Norton, $. A BNIOUITSO ME TOL. dst bas ciate see Se eee. Olmsteddy Drs. Gite coe pe oe esses. Olmstead Rev: I. i. c2 see ere ones Be Ostendorfer, O OUS HD OCTOL: ah. sae eee eee eee atreeeiaias Mtiesen Rev dc Acs sie ae eee oe ae Packard Doctor, 2c. scene one cee RACKALG revert As Gusseeneasen sen ne eent (Rarkeré; Doug lasysassen seen case een ee naicses PALLOLSONAC AP tain seco eee toe cone eee os
S. Mis. 54-8
—_ : NER He REED Oe ee
0) es ao Pe cre ea
| eal reel aod
HNO DHE EEE EOE EE AR HO ON WOH WOH NH END HH DW WN OOH HORE RE DRE HOO cD
|| Roessler, F. E pio gers werotessOleensesine series ctaee eee eee
| Poole, Dr. H
| Rau, Prof. Charles leRedtieldsdobmGberecsasscisteat ee cise ene PRedteldaProtessor.cceicinc-tcriecteireceen clesene
INDIVIDUALS—Continued. Pealev Dre AniCissas ess 3 ssc 5a soesteeseue ess
| JEtGB Ie, WG dit, cock ob peréne copSeenes san ccoorS Hoss | Pearson, Jonathan
(Peck | Cnet sateen woeiasoe eee abe wees Peet, Rey. Stephen D Peirce, Prot. B Petersee rot: Cslts Hy sceetenere Oove eis’ jaocece Phi brick johnei eee eee Pickering Proressorasssjs-nsese 14s essence Pinkham, Prof. G. Mae saacee Sa olelocaeeas ose
PorterwRewva Noahs sans ses cemceacsinee scree PourvalessCounteee-ceeecee ee eee eee ene Powell, Prof. J. W Praetorius, Doctor Preuss ARGV EL Av rscicn semen slo ssseeeeneeee
Rice, Dr. John A Richardson, jr Ridawanwhoertrercceeeecee sce ee ececeee Riley, Prof. C. V
toessler, A. R
Rogers, Prof. H. B Ross, Prof. A. M Rutherfurd, L. M tust, Th. N Safford, Prof. I. IL Spy ito) JERS Wie le lo neeodnarissbadreandoonysne alls brrmys Hibs weetamere coe sceneries eee Salisbury, Dr. J. H SalishunyaStepweneecan sms sectsecs scene Sanford, John E Sargent, Professor Scud derkDrs Seine se ee a eee cee een eee Schotty CharlestACa ses weet eens once 586 Schumacher Drake Aseeeee eee eee Schurzyions © anlar eae sea eeeeacise Schuster, M Selwyn, A. R. C Seytanth Or) Gece cassie cto sioeiiice sere reese Shepard, Prof. Ch. U ...Bn8680 Shepherd, Prof. H. E SillianMerotessoneee seceeee eee ceeee een SIMONSELOLS OTM VReeseeEeeceraen se eeeee nee Smallwood, Doctor..---ACB DOU CEE esonan Smith, Dr. Sidney J Smith, Dr. W. M Smith, E. A Smith) Profs. ieee seem poecassaeeoeases SmithPrordeeluawrencorstenesasseeeneeeeee SnOWeD rah eeeen es eee pees ic soeteiatoee eee Snow, Prof. F. H Sparks, J POLO wA i ease eee see me eae ue aee Squier WAG yas eeee eee ae eeceee sen eaes St. John, Prof. O Stevenson, Captain
I; Stevenson MWWAlliam iO memeneneese es lenaan nem
Stone Reyes cigs oon c\ctoe eee cere Stone, O Stidhamohevadrekrse eo eeae coe ce culene clade cere Stoecker, H Storer, Professor Sylvesterseroressorians ssocec ciclo naunamesiaae Thomas, Prof. C FERomMsonme Ohne. cece ceases ose eceecmee aes Thurber, Geo SRI SLOU whe Ele ets aeiciacisciecisins cee ecimiseee ME VOTIN CG EOLE OM Wie oe oeistaie lets leieswiniate)teieleinctecie Buckernmaniiy ErOLessoL= acca. cecceccieeecece Turner, Doctor T. G FE WAIN GH ETO Le o6 cle acl ane sees Aecenaeeicwe WihlerweropPelee a. = ss/cctaae on teen e eee Merrill SerotaAr e220. 5 ob o.is esa toben etree cs Wagner, Prof. W
PORE D OWE HOR WRN ENE EEN DWH HOWE EEN RENE RR SN EE OBOE NEE EE EW W HEN DOH HE RI HEE HON HEHE Hoe

<<<Page: 119>>>

1879. 1879. InDIvipuALs—Continued. InbIvipuALs—Continued.
Wialdo Mieonand seen. . ccc cee: oq -mmiceiceceice i WanchellaNic Hi Siac tias one cero nee ere saree eee if
Winer tno tplie Avesta lesresmiatne a seam oers 4: Winthrop 0's. sccciscesasnceceee onesie cee 1
VAL AMES MW) cee oa2.<0s/-aacioninesesiessaiccme HL} WALIUHIO DivlteiS cate cis cele eerie ace nee eee 1
Ward SRrotessOleeeescs een ecce een cee seer iL} | PWAtCH ERE IW) (.2aa-te nee ces cee eee eters seme 1
NVATO MoO wnSend fess sect cmtccn is ececussisesiemeaies LS} GWrOOdNvand, (Dr died acer arcceseetece etree 2
WWiaRd era ripAn Aeon eee acces ee Serene 4° Woodworth; Doctor25.2 ~~. ese eee sceeeee il
WER a5 JR OR soap nearer nerinesas a aseser. IS Worthen Dr. cA ELE en semsee ee eee eee 4
\iGiiSGin, IAN ESO! So seaoeesonneaoscodocoase 1 ||} Wyman, Colonel 1
NVicitS OM EKOL SCLONO® sm cree-nisoisiniee eee esas 1 || Wyman, Con:modore 4
WIGIKESS EID ee ae cpeanemacade cance acos ccs] 1 || Yarnall, Professor 1
\WWY Livery (OME IN Bos ooo ack ococessoeeansobs7es 2 || Yarrow, Doctor 5
Wheeler, Capt. George M ....:......-..---.. 17) PMLOS Oe a. Giana sme oe if
AWabipplenG core OM se seems -iiettaeeerteee 1 || Youmans, Dr. E. L 2
Muni te eri: tan 22a Alek conan ats Sayne sere Bi] eMoung eros. CO, AS. cacceee econ ceeeee 14
WWEbITE STS COMM) co 2ki re secon ctsccpeeeen acres i PWoun es Cito eye ese Len Lee eee eee 8
\WiAiviiiGy Dye) DRYNESS ess coooeencoeceousasoseds S| PLanemibaw Ors ColWie secee eh ae oe a ee eee 1
WNViteaVes le esac wis co ecinceaciseeieceemietioe By ehran-IMe Te 2. csceneecc we cee se peer eee 1 NWwhiineyy rot eee reee see ee eee cena 8
Mihi tne yAROLaWieD some Seems see en eaceee 7 Notaliof individuals: 2222-2 s---eee 341
Walley whHenny 9) eessse eee saeco ent ee il Totaltonpackaressorc: ses. -ee sce seeee 1, 185 Walliams Revo snlWiellStece-eeetemecsines aes 1 Walson, Dr: Daniel 222... 2-ceaseejaeoee tee oes 2
RECAPITULATION. No. of addresses. No. of packages. | 1877. | 1878. | 1879. | 1877. | 1878 | 1879.
SOCieni eS a= 5,2. ceca miei oro stat ste lel ictalsetnle anise sim niet ses eraner 392 | 292] 444] 3,868 | 4, 059 | 5, 786
Individuals 374 | 370 | 341 1, 094 | 1, 233 | 1, 185
DUO SoA eb concoen abo Soberao Co UOG ISU soaSbosauSacqdas 766 | 662] 785] 4,962 | 5,292 | 6, 971

<<<Page: 120>>>

AN ACT to aid in the protection of the public buildings and property against loss and
damage by fire.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That a commission composed of the Commissioner of Patents, the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution is hereby constituted and authorized to examine such automatic signal telegraph systems as may be submitted to them by the owners and agents thereof and to ascertain which of the same is best adapted for the purpose of the earliest and most certain transmission by signal of the occurrence of fire, and also the adaptability, usefulness, and need of the same for the further protection of the buildings and property of the government in the several departments in Washington, and to report the results of their examination to the next session of Congress.
Approved, December 13, 1878.
(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 4, page 257.)
AN ACT authorizing the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution to appoint an Act-
ing Secretary in certain cases.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That in the case of the death, resignation, sickness, or absence of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Chancellor thereof shall be, and he is hereby, authorized to appoint some person as Acting Secretary, who for the time being shall be clothed with all the powers and duties which by law are devolved upon the Secretary, and he shall hold said position until an election of Secretary shall be duly made, or until the Secretary shall be restored to his health, or, if absent, shall return and enter upon the duties of his office.
Approved, January 24, 1879.
(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 21, page 264,
AN ACT waking appropriations for the service of the Post Office Department for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty, and for other purposes,
Sec. 20. That mailable matter of the fourth class shall embrace all matter not embraced in the first, second, or third class which is not in its form or nature liable to destroy, deface, or otherwise damage the contents of the mail-bag, or harm the person of any one engaged in the postal service, and is not above the weight provided by law, which is hereby declared to be not exceeding four pounds for each package thereof, except in case of single books weighing in excess of that amount,

<<<Page: 121>>>

and except for books and documents published or circulated by order of Congress, or official matter emanating from any of the departments of the government or from the Smithsonian Institution, or which is not declared non-mailable under the provision of section thirty-eight hundred and ninety-three of the Revised Statutes as amended by the act of July twelfth, eighteen hundred and seventy-six, or matter appertaining to lotteries, gift concerts, or fraudulent schemes or devices.
(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 180, page 360.)
AN ACT making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty, and for other purposes.
* * * And all collections of rocks, minerals, soils, fossils, and objects of natural history, archeology, and ethnology, made by the Coast and Interior Survey, the Geological Survey, or by any other parties for the Government of the United States when no longer needed for investigations in progress shall be deposited in the National Museum.
(Statutes of the United States, Forty-fifth Congress, third bedi: chapter 182, page 394.)
FortTyY-SIXTH CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION, 1879-80.
JOINT RESOLUTION filling existing vacancies in the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
Resolved by the Senateand House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the existing vacancies in the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution of the class other than members of Congress, shall be filled by the reappointment of Asa Gray, of Massachusetts, Henry Coppée, of Pennsylvania, John Maclean, of New Jersey, and Peter Parker, of the city of Washington, whose terms have expired. (Public Resolution No. 2. Statutes of the United States, Forty-sixth Congress, second session, p. 299.)
Approved, December 19, 1879.
AN ACT for the erection of a bronze statue of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution be, and are hereby authorized to contract with W. W. Story, sculptor, for a statue in bronze of Joseph Henry, late Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, to be erected upon the grounds of said Institution; and for this purpose, and for the entire expense of the foundation and pedestal of the monument, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars is hereby appropriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Approved, June 1, 1880.
(Statutes of the United States, Forty-sixth Congress, second session, chapter 116, page 154.)

<<<Page: 122>>>

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution respectfully submit the following report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the National Museum, the receipts and expenditures for both the Institution and the Museum for 1879, and the estimates for the year 1880.
The amount originally received as the bequest
of James Smithson, of England, deposited
in the Treasury of the United States, in ac-
cordance with the act of Congress of August
HOMES AG ey or see aces ae aici a retienes idigs ..--$515, 169 00 Sanben y legacy OF Smithson, received in
1865, deposited in the Treasury of the United
Shanon in accordance with the act of Con-
gress) Of Hebruary. 8,867. 2.5.55 ss acc 26, 210 63
$541,379 63 Additional amount deposited in the Treasury
of the United States, derived from savings,
&c., authorized by act of Congress, Febru-
CTIA toy, DNS OY Uber © = be ee eS re 108, 620 37 Amount received as the bequest of James
Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., February 24,
Ware as. yore pie «eevee cick SYS cass 1, 000 60
109, 620 37
Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable
SS FANE AIMINUECIL Viet remedies citteteia 2”... <0), apices, Pekadlere ones 651, 000 00 In addition to the above, there i is invested in Wine Bonds
and certificates, $88,125.20, valued January 1880, at.... 32, 000 00 Also the cash balance in ihe United States Treasurer’s
iANGS, JAMUALY, 2el SOU. e . ..<)\-j..6).)sid) to fevered ue oat lie 20, 894. 06 Total Smithson funds, January 2, 1880............ $703, 894 06

<<<Page: 123>>>

nS REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
Virginia stock.—The Institution owns the following bonds and certificates of the State of Virginia: Consolidated bonds: 58 bonds, Nos. 11521 to 11578 inclusive,
foro. OOO CaCRe * ee see tee ae es ae $58, 000 00 lbond, No: 1380, fors.f-22 Beis ce teres 500 00 2 bonds, Nos. 4191 and 4192, for $100 enchy 0.5 starrer, Pe Pt ay ae eer. Sane 200 00 Deposited with the Treasurer of the United States..... $58, 700 00 Deferred certificates : No. 4543, dated July 1, 1871, for........ $29, 375 O7 No. 2969, dated July 1, 1871, for......~. 59 13 Deposited with Riggs & Cows... ss. e eee eee 29, 425 20 Total of Virginia securities. .-.............-.. 88, 125 20 The estimate by Riggs & Co. of the value of these ponds and certificates, January 1, 1880, is..-..--. See eR ee 32, 000 00
The coupons on the consolidated bonds for January 1 and July 1, 1879, were sold for the Institution, November 12, 1879, as follows:
$3, 480 Virginia, $30 coupons, at 83 ......... $2, 888 40
30 Virginia, $15 coupons, at 904 ....... 27 08
12 Virginia, $3 coupons, at 92.........11 04
3, 522 2,926 52
Less commission on $3, 522, at tof one percent. 17 60 Net proceeds of, coupons, +4-----9. -4-$2,908 92
Hamilton bequest—James Hamilton, of Carlisle, Pa., bequeathed to the Smithsonian Institution (February 24, ES TAY ie os eine Ree ee -| lg ge Bs tax dh THe $1, 600 00 This amount is deposited in the Tre easury of the United States as an addition to the Smithson Fund, in accordance with the Act of Congress of February 8, 1867. Interest received for the year-1879 -;:::5::2::.:/si..:2: $60 00 RECEIPTS IN 1879. Interest on $650,000 for the year 1879, at 6 per cent...... $39, 000 00 Interest on Virginia bonds: Sale of coupons, by Riggs & Co., for January 1 and July 1, 1879, for $3,522 (November 12, 1879), at 83,
904, 92, less GomMiIssioniy Nas JAB ee oe Se ee 2,908 92 Interest on Hamilton fund of $1,000 for the year 1879.... 60 00 Legacy of Simeon Habel, of nee VWorljas-c~:./e tases 402 59 Balance on hand at the beginning of 1879............... 19, 632 57 Total reeeipts for the year 1879......... ....-. ..-$62,004 08

<<<Page: 124>>>

EXPENDITURES IN 1879. Building:
Repairs and improvements ...........-$2, 232 28 Furniture and fixtures (for new offices, CCH eciase cos see WoLtA s aeteete sti aaee 1,110 25
$3, 342 53 General expenses:
Mreerings ot the: Board: 2 25 sm <2 580 80 ichtnerthe building {2s 78a o. eee ne 74 50 Heating the building .....2..-.-...-.... di 234 96 Postage and(telesrams 22325. 2 s5..s 22s 215 38 ShallONORYgy ase ses ee ee aN weer 982 83 Incidentals, insurance, ice, hauling...... 918 94 SalaTIe seas aint ates see neste © essere 13, 150 00 Extra clerk hire and labor.:..2. 222.2222 159 65
Books and periodicals: 2-. 3... .2.5 5622 oe 567 13
16, 884 19 Publications and researches:
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 3,129 49
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections .. 6,170 24
Smithsonian annual report...........-. 97 86
LeSCaLrchespepenc see cee tsetkes see 975 85
PA DAT AGUS eptewae lane aire Sie. devel wesloperere era arse 14 85
MWA OTALOR Yee ect Ae alter Sale atte Tits weehe 206 84
Xp lOFAWUOUS Vsteleen 4s =e Bee ened erase 683 70
—— 11,278 83
Exchanges:
Literary and scientific exchanges ........ee aes ore 9, 054 47 Gallery of Art:
Purchase of busts. ....<.=-Syoydace otek vets ee ciny ate 50 60
otalexpenditures im 1879-2. 22. ...-a iata ate oy sherencyer a $41,110 02 Balance in Treasury of United States January 2, 1880.... $20,894 06
Among the receipts for the year is a bequest of $402.59 by Dr. Simeon Habel, of New York, the author of one of the Smithsonian Conttributions to Knowledge, published in 1878, entitled “The Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa in Guatemala.” The author was an Austrian physician who relinquished his medical practice to make at his own expense a tour of exploration through Central America. The results of his researches were presented to the Smithsonian Institution for publication. Professor Henry afforded every facility to Dr. Habel for the preparation of his work, by furnishing him a room for several months at the Institution where he could have his drawings copied by a skillful artist, and the doctor in appreciation of this courtesy informed the Secretary that on his death he would leave a part of his property to the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 125>>>

Notice of his death on the 1st of January, 1879, at New York, having beefi received, steps were taken to secure the promised legacy, and the sum actually received from the Emigrant Savings Bank of New York, in accordance with Dr. Habel’s instructions, was $402.59. To this sum it is proposed that $97.41 should be added, so that the amount of $500 may be deposited in the Treasury of the United States as a part of the permanent fund.
Repayments.—The Institution has made temporary advances during the year for freight, &c., the repayment of which, with the amount received from sales of the publications of the Institution, &e., have been deducted from the expenditures for the year.
These repayments are as follows:
Mo exchan resp rave -ee oo a ayeretchs arava says oi ozs ap clateteie ove $919 69 ANY day Ne Se pane sone doco ome dad: Secon ssaoe Jaa6 1, 302 58 To Wuirmiture-<420 Base ck ee Soto eee ee ox eee eee 41 00 RG: SCAELONOM Ysa. tee poke oreo we eaelsie SB eeaeielat oe oom aeremeees 16 50 Tosmithsonan publications 22227422 sews ae er eeeee 242 07 MorincidenbalSeer staat chlor a arora tee Sine erecta niet orate arene 12 81 POMpOStawe’ <2 he aes steers iatarwt Haein ee eerie sere sleet tne eis 3 9 46
Total repayments.in 1879 .2). <2 ..< 6). < 2s 2/4219 23 =e ee
The following are the estimates of receipts by the Institution for the year 1880, and the appropriations required for carrying on its operations during the same period.
Estimated receipts.
Interest on the permanent fund, receivable
July 1, 1880, and January 1, 1851 ......$39, 000 00 Interest on the Hamilton fund for 1880 ..... 60 00 Sale of Virginia coupons, due January 1 and
yA, S80. «stem etal eee me eter: 2, 800 00
—_————_ $41, 860 00 Proposed appropriations. Aor 0] 7 EDS 00a 85 Bk $2,000 00 For-generaltexpenses. 2... 2.005. Sees eee 14, 000 00 For publications and researches .........--. 14, 000 00 MOTIORCHABREN as 'ach!). a SU ee eterna 10, 000 00 For books and apparatus ........... Seles = 1,000 00 Por contingenties 2h) .2. io... eee 860 00
41, 860 00

<<<Page: 126>>>

The following appropriations were made by Congress in 1879 for dis-
bursal under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution : Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution: For preservation and care of the collections of the National Museum, including those from the International Exhibition of 1876. (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 182; 1879, IEEE CIS eee Na raaeee eh tie ae lero aad te ee Ne pee ee Distribution of duplicates: For expenses of making’ up into sets, for distribution to colleges and museums, the duplicate ores, minerals, and objects of natural history belonging to the United States. (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, Glapberelse Vv SiOvMarch 3) ates ste cca. ic, eine sree Preservation of collections, Smithsonian Institution, Armory Building: For expense of watching and storage of articles belonging to the United States, including those transferred from the International Exhibition of 1876. (Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 182; 1879, March 3).... ...... Additional security against fire: Hae providing additional security against fire in the Smithsonian building for. the goyernment collections, in accordance with report of the commission appointed to examine the public buildings, December 10,1877. (Forty-fifth ey a third session, chapter 182; 1879, Na Chibo) eater AUC er cvoi gay ern ua eers car ee ole, 6.2.51 For completing and preparing for publication the contributions to North American Ethnology, under the Smithsonian Instition: Provided, That all the archives, records, and materials relating to the Indians of North America, collected by the geographical and geological survey of the Rocky Mountain Region, shall be turned over to the Smithsonian Institution, that the work may be completed and prepared for publication under its direction: Provided, That it shall meet the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. (Forty-fifth Congress, third sesSigns chaptergen pls Oe Warchi, 3)... ics <0 <\aiis esieiieeys otsrsinie « For a fire-proof building, for the use of the National Museum, three hundred feet square, to be erected under the direction and supervision of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, in accordance with the plans now on file with the Joint Committee of Public Buildings and Grounds, on the southeastern portion of the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, said building to be placed east of the Smithsonian Institution, leaving a roadway between it and the latter of not less than fifty feet, with its north front on a line with the south face of the buildings of the Agricultural Department and of the Smithsonian Institution, and all expenditures for
$23, 000
5, 000
bo ox S
3, 000
20, 000

<<<Page: 127>>>

the purposes herein mentioned, not including anything for
architectural plans, shall be audited by the proper officers
of the Treasury Department. (Forty-fifth Congress, third
session, chapter. 182; 1879, March 3)* -..5.. 0.025 25-5...-. $250, 000 Smithsonian Institution: For the preservation of the speci-
mens of the United States surveying and exploring expedi-
tions 1879. (orty-fifth Congress, third session, chapter 185, ;
page 417; March 3, 1879)...... ....-. Se Maes A 4, 000
The following is a statement of the receipts, expenditures, and balances of the National Museum accounts :
Receipts. 1879. January 1. Balance unexpended of appropriation for year ending June 30, 1879. $11,389 30 Appropriation for deficiencies, 1879. 4, 000 00 July 1. Appropriation for the year ending
JUNE D0, MSS0s.. ese e ee see 28, 000 00 Cash refunded for coal and freight. 290 76 $45, 680 06 Baupenditures. For the quarter ending March 31, 1879........ $6,818 41 For the quarter ending June 30, 1879......... 8, 626 69 For the quarter ending September 30, 1879.... 9, 900 40 For the quarter ending December 31, 1879 .... 6, 842-37 ~ 32,187 87 Balance available from January 1 to July 1,1880.......... 11, 492 19 FOR ARMORY BUILDING. Receipts. 1879. Jan. 1. Balance unexpended of appropriation for the year ending June 30, 1879.... $1,171 24 July 1. Appropriation for year ending June 30, LS80.. 22,2 eee ee Beeeies. § 2H00 100 ———_———_ 3, 671 24 Bapenditures. For the quarter ending March 31, 1879.......928 2 For the quarter ending June 30, 1879...-..... 128 38 For the quarter ending September 30, 1879-... 606. 3: For the quarter ending December 31, 1879.... 970 72 ————_——-._ 2, 633 70 Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880........-. $1, 037 54
*¥For a full account of the construction of this building see the report of the National Museum Building Commission.

<<<Page: 128>>>

Receipts. 1879. . July 1. Appropriation for year ending June 30, 1880 ..... $3, 000 00 Hapenditures. For the quarter ending September 350, 1879.... $461 95
For the quarter ending December 31, 1879..-.. 1, 280 63 1, 692 58
Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880.... ---. 1, 307 42
Receipts. 1879. _ July 1. Appropriation for the year ending June 30, 1880. $20, 000 00 BHapenditures. For the two quarters ending December. 31, 1879.......-. 13, 769 00 Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880 ........ 6, 231 00
Receipts. 1879. March 3. Appropriation for new building............... $250, 000. 00 Pxpenditures. co dan, Voissl so... 24-6 143, 146 38
Balance available from January 1 to July 1, 1880. $106,853 62 SUMMARY.
The Executive Committee have examined 687 vouchers for payments made from the Smithson income during the year 1879, and 690 vouchers for payments made from appropriations by Cones for the National Museum, making a total of 1,577 vouchers. <All these bear the approval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a certificate that the materials and services charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution.
The committee bave examined the account books of the National Museum and find the balances as before statéd—preservation, $11,492.19 ; armory, $1,037.54; security against fire, $1,307.42— to correspond with the certificates of the disbursing clerk of the Department of the Interior. They also find the balance of $106,853.62 of the National Museum building appropriation corresponds with the certificate of the disbursing ofiicer of the Treasury Department January 5, 1880.
The quarterly accounts current, bank-book, check-book, and journal of the Institution have been examined and found to be correct, and show

<<<Page: 129>>>

a balance to the credit of the Institution on the 2d of January, 1880, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United States of $20,894.06 available for the current operations of the Institution. Respectfully submitted. PETER PARKER, W. T. SHERMAN, Executive Committee Smithsonian Institution. WASHINGTON, January 19, 1880.

<<<Page: 130>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM BUILDING CoMMISSION, OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C., January 19, 1880.
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:
GENTLEMEN: For several years past the attention of the Board of Itegents has been called to the rapid growth of the collections in the National Museum and the need of increased accommodations for the same. This necessity, however, was not deemed sufficiently imperative to authorize a request for special Congressional legislation until the close of the Centennial Exhibition, when it became evident that the articles gathered by the Smithsonian Institution for the exhibition in Philadelphia, under the act of Congress, added to the numerous centennial exhibits presented to the United States and taken charge of by the Smithsonian Institution, constituted a mass of material for which no provision could possibly be made in the present Smithsonian building. Under these circumstances, the Board of Regents on the, 5th of February, 1877, memorialized Congress for an appropriation of $250,000 for the “immediate erection of a spacious building,” and a few weeks subsequently a bill for the purpose passed the Senate, but too late in the Session to secure consideration in the House of Representatives. The effort was renewed during the winter of 187778, but likewise without action. On the 3d of March, 1879, however, the desired appropriation was made through a provision in the sundry civil bill, as follows:
“For a fire-proof building for the use of the National Museum, 300 feet square, to be erected under the direction of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, in accordance with the plans now on file with the Joint Committee of Publie Buildings and Grounds, on the southeastern portion of the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, two hundred and fitty thousand dollars: Said building to be placed east of the Smithsonian Institution, leaving a roadway between it and the latter of not less than fifty feet, with the north front on a line with the south face of the buildings of the Agricultural Department and of the Smithsonian Instition; and all expenditures for the purposes herein mentioned, not including anything for architectural plans, shall be audited by the proper officers of the Treasury Department.”
Anticipating the early action of Congress in the premises, the Board of Kegents, on the 17th of January, 1879, adopted the following resoluthon:
“Resolved, That the Executive Committee of the Board, or a majority thereof, and the Secretary be, and they are hereby, authorized and empowered to act for and in the name of the Board of Regents in carrying into effect the provisions of any act of Congress that may be passed providing for the erection of a building for the National Museum.”
Accordingly, on the 7th of March, 1879, Hon. Peter Parker and General W. IT’. Sherman, the resident members of the executive committee,

<<<Page: 131>>>

with the Secretary, met in the office of the Institution, and after organizing under the title of “ National Museum Building Commission,” of which General W. T. Sherman was chosen chairman, proceeded to adopt such measures as in their opinion appeared best calculated to realize, with the least possible delay, the intention of Congress.
The committee at the outset invited General M. C. Meigs, Quartermaster-General U. 8. A., to act in the capacity of consulting engineer to the commission, and also selected Messrs. Cluss and Schulze, whose plans for the new building were those approved by Congress, as superintending architects. Mr. Daniel Leech was appointed secretary of the commission. .
To remove as far as possible any doubt as to the sufficiency of the appropriation for a building m accordance with the plans approved by Congress, Mr. Edward Clark, Architect of the Capitol, and General Meigs, after carefully considering the provisional estimates of the architects, informed the commission that in their opinion the amount was suflicient for the purpose.
To obtain a clear understanding of the intent of Congress in making the appropriation, as well as to ascertain how far, if desirable, the commission might be authorized to depart from the plans before the Committees of Public Buildings and Grounds when the act was passed, the chairmen of the respective committees (Hon. H. L. Dawes and Hon. Philip Cook) were consulted ; whereupon these gentlemen officially informed the commission ‘that, provided the general design be retained, it was not their intention, nor that of their committees, to confine the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to the minor details of the aforesaid plans, but to authorize any modifications that might appear to them desirable in the interest of economy or for the better adaptation of the building to its object.”
On ascertaining that the appropriation could be made immediately available under the clause directing that the account should be audited by the proper ofiicers of the Treasury Department, the Secretary of the Treasury was, on the 27th of March, requested to designate some one of his force to act as disbursing officer. Accordingly Maj. T. J. Hobbs, disbursing clerk of the department, was selected, and payments were authorized to be made by him on vouchers approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution as provided for in the following resolution :
“Resolved, That the commission appointed by the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to superintend the construction of a new fire-proof building for the National Museum hereby authorize Prof. 8. F. Baird, Secretary of the Institution, to act as their agent to approve for payment by Thomas J. Hobbs, all bills for services and supplies from such funds as are placed in the hands of the latter by said commisssion for such purposes, and the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby respectfully requested toimstruct Thomas J. Hobbs, disbursing agent, to pay any bills when thus certified and found to be otherwise technically correct.”

<<<Page: 132>>>

Having thus prepared the way to a commencement of active operations, specifications were at once prepared and proposals invited for carrying on the work. Ground was broken on the 17th of April, 1879.
The concrete foundations were begun on the 29th of April, and the prick-work of the walls on the 21st of May, the main walls being completed on the 1st day of November.
In consequence of the low prices of the more important building materials, very favorable contracts were made, especially for the brick required and for the iron-work, since the price of iron advanced very materially within a few months from the date referred to. The same is true with regard to glass, bricks, and, in fact, almost all building materials.
For details of construction, as well as for a statement of expenditures to date, the board is referred to the appended report of the superintending architects.
The estimate «f $250,000 for the construction of a museum building did not include the heating apparatus. As the work progressed, however, it became evident that all the underground piping for water, gas, and steam, at least, could be obtained from the fund.
In anticipation of an appropriation for the purpose, it was deemed best to obtain provisional bids for a steam-heating apparatus. Accordingly proposals were invited: first, for the underground pipes; second, for the boilers; third, for the radiators. The aggregate of the estimates for the three items varied from $13,940 to $55,680.
The lowest bid was rejected on account of inadequacy of the supply of heat. The next to the lowest was that of Messrs. Baker, Smith & Co., for $19,768, which was accepted, and a contract made for the underground pipes for $5,770.
An appropriation of $30,000 has been asked of Congress for the completion of the heating apparatus throughout, for the gas and water fixtures and the electric apparatus required for clocks in the building, for signals, alarms, &e.
Before the building can be occupied it must, of course, be furnished and fitted up with cases, of which, as might be expected, a large provision isrequired. According toa calculation, the cases that will be needed, if placed end to end, will extend to a distance of more than 8,000 feet, with a total of shelving surface of about 75,600 square feet. The frontage of the cases will be over 14,000 feet, so that, allowing for the crossing from one case to another a journey of at least three miles will be required even to take a cursory glance at all the objects in the collection.
The question of the best material for the cases has not been definitely settled, the choice lying between iron and hard wood. In order to assist in determining this question satisfactorily, arrangements have been made to obtain working plans of the cases used not only in a number of museums in the United States, especially in Cambridge, Boston, and New York, but also in Europe. The new building now being erected for

<<<Page: 133>>>

the collections of the British Museum is one where it is supposed the best experience has been made use of in the plans of the cases, and arrangements have been made to obtain copies of the same. The new iron eases of the National Museum at Dresden are also under investigation. Tron is more expensive than wood, but involves less danger of decay, and there is also an especial advantage in the fact that the material may be so much thinner as to increase the interior space, while the objects in the cases are less obscured. Of course, it must not be forgotten that the National Museum is expected to discharge its functions for an indefinite period of years.
The provision of Congress directed that the-new building should be placed to the east of the present Smithsonian edifice, at least fifty feet from its southeastern corner. The question was considered of having the interval greater than this minimum, but it was found that this would involve the extension of the building beyond the boundary of the Smithsonian reservation and carry it to the unassigned portion of the square. Although there was nothing in the act to prevent this encroachment, yet in view of the possibility that the southeastern portion of the public land between Seventh and Twelfth streets would be required for some other purposes, perhaps for a Congressional Library, it was thought best to encroach upon it as little as possible.
In addition to its answering the purpose for which it was primarily intended, it is confidently believed that the new National Museum building will exercise an important function in serving as a model for similar establishments elsewhere.
Of course, in a city where the cost of land is a matter of important consideration, the one-story plan cannot always be carried out, the usual position of story above story being necessary to secure the desired space. Most colleges and universities, however, have ample grounds belonging to them, the occupation of which by large buildings is allowable. Under such circumstances, the same amount of fire-proof space can be had for from two-thirds to one-half the usual cost.
The office of member of the Building Commission has been by no means a sinecure, weekly meetings having been held, with scarcely an interruption, from the first organization, as shown by the full reports kept of the proceedings. General Meigs, as consulting engineer, until his recent departure on a tour of duty, was present at every meeting and continually aided the Commission by his advice, rendered so valuable by his long familiarity with building operations on a large scale, and with the whole question of the proper construction of contracts. He visited the grounds nearly every day and closely inspected the progress of the work. To him are also due valuable suggestions on the methods of covering the roofs and on other details.
The duties of the secretary of the commission have consisted in keeping the record of the proceedings of the meetings, in assisting in the preparation of contracts for execution, in engrossing the bills for settle

<<<Page: 134>>>

ment, and in many other points. These services Mr. Leech has zealously performed, and to the entire satisfaction of the commission. Mr. William J. Rhees, chief clerk of the Smithsonian Institution, has also rendered valuable services. Respectfully submitted. W. T. SHERMAN, PETER PARKER, SPENCER F. BAIRD,
National Museum Building Commission. S. Mis. 549

<<<Page: 135>>>

ARCHITECTS’ OFFICE, NATIONAL MUSEUM BUILDING, Washington, D. C., January 1, 1880. To the Hon. National Museum Building Commission, Washington, D. C.:
GENTLEMEN: We have the honor to submit the following report of the work done upon the erection of the fire-proof building for the National Museum from March 25, the date when the work was, by you, placed in our charge, to December 31, 1879.
It is due to the importance of this national and extensive enterprise to preface the report by a technical and descriptive record of its plan, design, and construction.
The building starts on the ground in the form of a square, with sides of 327 feet extreme length. This is surmounted by a cross and a dome. Within its facades a net area of 102,200 square feet, or 2.35 acres, is covered in by roofs.
It contains under ground a coal-cellar of a storage capacity of nearly 300 tons. Besides, there are two cellars, containing 3,200 square feet floor space, for storage purposes. T'rom one of these cellars a subterranean communication with the adjacent Smithsonian building is established, by an arched passage, which, besides ordinary uses, will serve in cases of panic, fire, tumult, robbery, Xe.
A basement containing 1,600 square feet of floor space is fitted up for the boiler-room of a steam heating apparatus.
On the main floor there are available, in 17 halls which freely communicate with one another by wide and lofty archways, 59,300 square feet of floor space and a proportionate amount of wall space for exhibition purposes.
Further, there are available on the main floor and two upper stories 27,400 square feet of floor space, divided off into 135 rooms for administrative functions, offices, working-rooms, photographer, necessary accommodations, &e.
And finally there are about 4,000 square feet of floor space on galleries, formed on a level with the second floor of the offices ; these are intended in part for special exhibits and in part to afford an unobstructed view of the ensemble of the exhibits.
On the whole, the one-story plan which has prevailed among experts ever since the Paris exhibition of 1867 has been adopted. But by the jutroduction of upper stories on those outlying sections reserved for offices, ample office-room has been secured without encroaching materially upon the floor space within the square of 300 feet, to which the building was primarily limited.
The center of the building is octagonal on the ground floor, and is surmounted by a 16-sided polygon of 67 feet diameter, which contains a tier of large windows and constitutes a domical structure with a slate

<<<Page: 136>>>

REPORT OF THE ARCHITECTS, : ey |
roof and a lantern, crowned by a decorated finial. This room is 77 feet high on the side walls, or 108 feet to the top of the finial.
Four naves, of 65 feet in width and 117 feet in length, radiate from the dome and extend to the outside walls of the building; the naves form in this manner a Greek cross, over the center of which the dome rises, and part of the spaces in the exterior angles of the cross are fitted up with halls of 65 feet square and of same height as the naves.
The side walls of both naves and annexes are 42 feet high, while the height to the ridge of the slate roofs is 56 feet. These roofs are in part constructed double, for the purpose of so perfecting the drainage of the roofs that accumulations of ice and snow can nowhere obstruct it.
The spaces between the high walls of the Greek cross and the exterior walls of the building are allotted mainly to eight halls of reduced height, covered by lean-to metal roofs; the extreme height of which is 32 feet.
By this treatment wall spaces are obtained for the introduction of clerestory windows, which light the square halls and assist in lighting the naves.
The four symmetrical exterior walls of the building are broken by projections in the center and at the corners, and these have been amply utilized for miscellaneous administrative purposes as stated above.
A modernized Romanesque style of architecture was adopted for the new building in order to keep up a relationship with the Smithsonian building, which is designed in Norman, a variety of this style. To modernize this style was found necessary on account of the different building material, and to do justice to the purposes of the building with its modern demands of perfect safety and elegance of construction, of greatest possible available floor space, of easy communications, efficient drainage, a well calculated and pleasing admission of light, free circulation of air, and all other hygienic dicta.
The external architecture is based upon the general arrangement of the interior, and shows plainly the prominence of the four naves and the careful management of the light for the central portion of the building. The main entrances are in the centers of each facade between two lofty towers of 86 feet height, which act as buttresses for the naves. Between the towers, and receding from the doorways, there are large arched windows set with ornamented glass, and above those the gables of the naves are formed; they contain inscription-plates and are. crowned by allegorical groups of statuary. The group over the northern gable, designed by C. Buberl, of New York, already in position, introduces Columbia as the protectress of science and industry.
To both sides of these prominent central features there are curtainwalls, 27 feet in height, which have the effect of arcades.
Pavilions are placed at the corners; they are of less height than the towers, but sufficiently raised above the curtain-walls to overcome the

<<<Page: 137>>>

unfavorable effect which these comparatively low walls would otherwise produce.
In the rear of the curtain-walls, the clerestory rises to the full height of the naves, the roofs of which terminate against the side walls of the dome. The dome is treated in a similar way and strictly in the same character as the curtain-walls above alluded to.
In addition to the windows in the solid masonry of exterior walls, clerestory, and dome, lofty lanterns have been provided above the naves and square halls so as to afford perfect light for this enormous space without resorting to flat skylights, which for various reasons it was well to avoid.
These lanterns, square and oblong, together with those of the kindred features of the pavilions, have been so arranged, in combination with towers, groups, clerestory, and the rising dome in the background, as to produce a picturesque effect in the sky-lines of the building.
All the masonry above ground is composed of brick-work, built with air spaces for outside walls, ornamented and laid in black mortar for the facing of exterior walls. To neutralize the monotony and commonplace appearance which could not have been avoided with red brick fronts of such extent, a sufficient quantity of buff bricks, interspersed with a small number of blue bricks, in the cornices have been introduced.
A base-course of granite extends all around the building.
The wrought work of the main entrance, window-sills, inscriptionplates, copings, &e., are of gray Ohio freestone. Anything else in the line of decoration is in strict keeping with the principal designs, and executed in substantial metal work.
The floor beams, girders, and roofs consist or are constructed of rolled and shaped iron. The floors are fire-proofed by brick arches and conerete. Of roofs there are no less than thirty seven; many of them areof most complicated construction. The lanterns of the ridges of the naves are large enough to cover moderate-sized dwellings.
The light but solid frame-work of all the roofs will be left in full view, painted in light neutral tints.
The covering of the metal roofs is laid upon fire-proofed gratings, suggested by General M. C. Meigs.
The slates are hung to iron purlines.
The sashes all through the building are each glazed with two panes of glass, with an intermediate air-space. ‘This is done to facilitate the heating of the building.
The floors of the exhibition halls will consist of concrete, but the rooms and smaller halls will, for convenience sake, be floored with Florida pine, laid on concrete.
The interior is to be plastered in sand finish, washed in tints. Its lofty proportions do not require any elaborate decoration, and will thus rather heighten than interfere with the objects on exhibition.

<<<Page: 138>>>

The heating of the building is to be done by low-pressure steam, on the system of direct radiation.
The wide main entrance doors of walnut and oak open outward on spacious tiled vestibules, with sides and arched ceilings of ornamental brick-work. These vestibules are closed at night and on Sundays by wide double gates, the solid frames of which consist of wrought iron, and the ornaments of cast iron; thus combining the utmost strength with great economy.
The northern entrance has been selected for general use, and hence it was necessary and proper to give it due prominence from the others for the guidance of strangers. The configuration of the surrounding ground helped in this connection. A spacious tiled platform bounded by granite side blocks is constructed in front of this entrance. It is approached by four low and wide granite steps of 37 feet in length, which are flanked by molded base-blocks, carrying stately candelabras.
It should be remembered that in all our steps we were guided by the absolute necessity not to overreach the appropriation at disposal; and hence, to produce the best effect with utmost economy, the exterior decoration was confined to and concentrated on the centers of the fronts.
The erection of this building requires about 5,250,000 bricks, 3,000 barrels cement, 5,600 barrels lime, 4,000 cubic yards of sand, 2,000 cubic yards of rubble-stone, 1,250 cubic yards of concrete, 470 tons of wrought iron, 31,000 square feet of glass, 60,000 plates of slate, of 2 square feet each, 375 boxes of tin, &e.
As soon as we received the required instructions our work was concentrated on the preparation of working drawings, schedules, and specifications, so as to take best advantage of the low prices of material and labor then prevailing, and in this we were successful to a great extent.
We now proceed to give a history of the progress of the work during the past season, operations being classed under a few general heads.
During the whole season we were favored by the weather. Irom the 1st of May to 3lst of December but twelve and one-quarter working days were lost by inclement weather; of these, nine and three-quarter days were rainy, one was stormy, one severely cold, and a half a day was lost on account of sleet and ice.
1. Huacavation.—The excavation for the foundations was commenced on the 17th of April and finished on the 28th of May. It was carried to solid ground, but nowhere less than 3 feet below surface, that the building should rest on earth below the disintegrating effects of frost and drought. Under the topsoil a thick stratum of hard clay was met, and under this a bed of clean, dry gravel, which was struck wherever cellars were dug; this porous layer drained the site by absorbing the rain-water as fast as it fell.
2. Foundations.—The foundations were, under date of April 29, commenced with a heavy bed of hydraulic cement conerete and.were com-
pleted on the 30th of May. Upon the concrete bed they were continued

<<<Page: 139>>>

u» to the surface with rubble-stone work of gneiss, laid in cement mortar ; this work was commenced on the 5th of May and was completed on June 9.
3. Brick-work.—The brick-laying commenced on May 21, and the principal walls were completed on November 1, after 4,740,000 bricks had been laid under contract. The specifications call for a superior class of brick-work, laid in black mortar on the fagades without resorting to the expensive “tucked” or “ruled” joints commonly used in first-class pressed brick-work, and this has been duly enforced. In this we were aided by the commendable ambition of the Washington Brick Machine Company, who have furnished a superior quality of brick for the facades. We, on the other hand, have spent a large amount of money in bringing out the beauty of the material by cleaning down and oiling the facades. Ever since the contract for laying bricks has been declared as satisfactorily completed a large force of brick-layers has been kept at work by the day, under proper superintendence, in finishing the facades, piecing out the walls, building the steam-chimney, walling in the iron-work of the roofs as they progressed, doing plumbers’ jobbing, turning and concreting floor-arches, laying foundations for platforms and steps, forming gutters with due grade, &e., &e. This work is all well advanced, but still in progress, and will be finished by the building of ducts for the lines of pipes which will conduct the steam and return the condensed water of the heating apparatus.
4. Cut-stone work.—The cutting and laying of the granite base course was commenced on May 19. The cut-stone work has been going on during the whole season as the work of the other mechanics progressed and is now completed, with the exception of part of the outside steps. At intervals of about 5 feet in height, bond-stones of North River grey wacke-bluestone have been introduced in the high piers of the interior archways in order to increase their stability.
5. Iron-work.—The floor-beams arrived in good time and were put in place by the contractors as they got ready for them. On August 22, the first ‘‘Warren girder” of the lean-to roofs was set in place; on October 9 the roofs of the naves were commenced to be put up; on December 19 those of the square halls were commenced. At this writing all the material for the roofs is on hand ; it simply remains for the contractor to display energy and have all the roofs ready for covering.
6. Galvanized iron-rork.—This consists of a heavy amount of small cornice-moldings, of acroteria, chimney-heads, finials, facings and casings. It is well advanced at the shops and being put up in due time.
7. Slates and slating.—Under date of August 19 last, the blue slates have been ordered from Ore Banks, Va., and the red and green slates fromthe quarries in Vermont. They are virtually ali on hand, and the slater avails himself at all times of the first opportunity which offers for laying the slates. The slates are 24 inches in length and expose 10 inches to the weather, thus giving what is termed double cover and 4 inches lap.

<<<Page: 140>>>

8. Covering of the flat roofs—These metal roofs are supported primarily by the wrought-iron trusses laid 13 feet between centers; these again are subdivided and cross-laid by wrought beams of lighter sections so as to cut up the ceilings into spaces of 4 by 13 feet in size. At the suggestion of General Meigs these spaces were bridged by gratings formed in two thicknesses of light tapered wooden strips and fire-proofed by being filled in and inclosed with a non-conducting mixture composed of plaster of Paris, lime, coal-ashes, and cinders. Before actual use we have made ample tests in.order to reduce the weight of the gratings and of the composition to a minimum, and on the other hand to increase its non-conductibility. The greater part of this work is done and the metal laid upon it in sheets of 14 by 20 inches in size, having flat joints. Each sheet is clamped down to the gratings by eight clamps of sheet metal, two on each side, in such a manner that each sheet, independent of all others, can expand and contract, which in such large roofs is an important consideration.
9. Wooden floors —AIl the flooring required has been secured of Florida yellow pine, by contract, at very reasonable terms.
10. Plastering —No scaffolding material being kept on hand by the tradesmen for reaching high walls or ceilings of buildings like this, the poles and lumber of the seaffolds for the brick-work were purchased at a reasonable rate from the contractors for that branch and are now ou hand.
11. Glass, glazing, and painting—With the sudden stimulus which the industries of this country received last fall, home-made glass came to bea scarce article, as the proposals received under extensively published advertisements show ; the lowest bids were for Belgian glass, imported free of duty, with the approval of the Treasury Department. This glass is shortly expected to arrive, after which the sash will be glazed at an early date. The painting has so far been mostly confined te the metal cornices and piping, the iron-work and window-frames having been fur-
‘nished, by the respective contractors, all primed.
12. Carpenter’s work.—This has so far been mostly directed to the making of roof-gratings, described under another head. But, besides, a large amount of centers has been made and put up for turning arches in the brick-work and floor-arches. In the concrete above the floorarches the thin sleepers have been laid to which the flooring is to be nailed. The setting of door-jambs is about to be commenced and to be followed by all the minor details required for getting the building in ‘readiness for the plasterer,
13. Sewerage, drainage, and plumbing.—In the early part of the spring
‘the main sewer on B street was cut out and a 12-inch glazed terra cotta sewer connected with it for the drainage of the new building The numerous branch sewers within the building leading to some sixty conductors from the roofs, and to soil-pipes of closets and basins, were under a decision of the commission delayed until the completion of the walls, but have lately been completed, as also most of the extra heavy

<<<Page: 141>>>

cast-iron piping which forms the conductors of rain-water, and the vertical soil-pipes. All these heavy pipes have air and water tight joints formed of gasket and lead, and are firmly supported by brick piers at their juncture with the sewer-pipes under ground.
During the progress of the brick-work temporary supplies have been taken by tapping the pipes supplying the hose-cocks in the Smithsonian grounds, but in the fall a 12-inch main pipe was tapped outside of the building and near its southeastern corner. Three parallel lines of 3-inch water-pipe running due north through the building were put in with supply for 16 fire-plugs, numerous street-washers, outlets for closets, basins, and bath-tubs, stop-cocks, &e.
Simultaneously with the water supply the supply-pipes for gas were attended to. The gas main was tapped on B street, outside of the southwest corner of the building, and two 4-inch supply-pipes were put in, one running due north and the other due east through the building, at an equal distance of about 20 feet from the outside walls of the building. Both pipes are continued, of reduced sizes, in a similar way until they meet at the northeast corner of the building. They have a regular fall back to the main, the permanence of which is secured by two supporting brick piers under each length of pipe, so that no flickering of gas can ever occur in consequence of the formation of traps by irregu lar settlements of the pipes. Outlets have been provided for lighting all the rooms and passages, and also for the light required to supervise all the parts of the building at night. Unusually large gas-pipes were found necessary on account of the great lengths on which they are’ run, and this feature will afford facilities hereafter, in case it should be decided to fit up any of the halls with brilliant light for public use at night.
14. Underground piping for heating apparatus.—To avoid the unsightly appearance of exposed large-sized steam and water return-pipes required for the successful heating of the vast building, it was decided to build the necessary ducts and introduce the pipes under ground before the’ floors were laid, though this part of the work was not included in the estimates on which the appropriation for the building proper was based.
The heating apparatus intended under the estimates, now before the Appropriation Committee of the House, provides for four steam-boilers of 256 nominal horse-power in the aggregate. The generated steam is to be conducted by two separate main pipes of eight inches diameter to about 200 steam-heaters, containing in the aggregate 13,680 square feet of radiating surface. The hot water condensed in these heaters is to be returned and reused in the boiler.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT. Expenditures up to date.. Earth-work: BxCavahlonweeecisvise asic.n cca ae oe ee $7
24 Grading...... Bieta ae cia aaa pee eis 129 $853 68

<<<Page: 142>>>

Foundations : A. Conerete:
@oneretelstoner. tis os). Sree asses se $2, 083 32 Cememtic dace sees vi) > sos) teenie 1, 084 24 ° Sane see eres cas oe ee ees 300 00 Wa DOR che selene i 3 oS eee ts 431 45
————— $3, 899 02 B. Rubble-stone work :
vt Db le-StOMGi re seteyanaoteit sie iver oe 3, 394 36 WEMeN bie sa ceas eee ems n6 2 cise 1, 000 00 NOE 0 LBS eka ely Seca eee een ee 295 00 WO ses So endee teehee eet sc aG 2,321 28 7,010 64 Brick-work: eds DMCS eotiet ese seclteacecesc = OleOle ot Butane bluMevDricks\..050<eeee sees ses e 3, 270 73 Blackemile*Prieks i..." 2222s 2 2 5 er 1, 235 05 inme and COmMents. accel oases ce! ae 2,789 65 aM ceyne eens eer ee Sch fant tS, 2,240 14 iPulp-piack for mortan.ss25 4.225 <2s6 3. 262 95 WETIUCIS: tocinee Sete aire aes arose ota aye ayers 866 37 Paying) under comtract.. 5... 523.2225.) . 16, 799 30 Bay ine by day Ss wOrk. oo). 5 ohare aie 3,597 84 Miscellaneous expenses --...-..--..---1, 447 11 64,021 38 MEAN EOUGLWOL Kise cteter oe oe She Sac a sectoral ce Srate.e.6 oete aie 9,097 60 Wrought and cast iron work: BUOOTDEAMS tes ccwes fas 6 soso ayes 3, 230 52 Hloop-iron for unchors. sce... 5255... s 242 70 Roofs and anchors............ MBE CONSE 16, 401 80 Seve WEAMISe MCs ssa sc snes eer « 592 31 ———————._ 20, 467 33 Gal ani Zedw EON WOl Ke ats.2 2 2ic)/< We ain RYE Eat a vice oyahee 2,016 00 Slating: Cost Of Slaten TOO. 25.7. \escis<.as)+ 2 < ai 3, 972 32 Cost of slate for isolating course of founCACO I eit pees sea ete eeub ase sees 245 80 Demetris Pretest fio ee ches ais owe 88 54 Ua OR earns ceee ie cietn 4, a Sie ago ae os hs 123 26 4,429 72
Covering of flat roofs: A. Fire-proof gratings:
Plaster of Paris......... 484 65 AMG). Se BS OR ere pa ae 100 00 Dips euecsemieacse ets: 3, 519 65 SHEN eres ee ee cc 110 45

<<<Page: 143>>>

Labor of carpenters ..... $3,275 11 Labor of plasterers....-. 819 50 ————__ $8,369 36 B. Roofing: Jr yh 0) aS Aneta aac 1,145 96 Redipped tin....-. of ne > NO OASUOO aWOrers -s sts tee ee 400 05 4,589 60 —— $12,958 96 Plastering, poles, ropes, and Jumber..........2...-5.-..591 35 Painting: Materiales 275. ic Setcorewe ee taveee opoha a . 213 60 Tabor cccwte ose eee ameter nee 216 75 430 35 Plumbing, sewerage, and drainage....................-. 1,586 96 Carpenters’ work, lumber, and hardware: Wind ow-frames <.5 ene oe eee areetetfe ls 1,480 75 Miscellaneous lumber <iq *2:228 eet. ss 935 41 Hard Ware: somoceart antec eee eee 5 toad 404 89 ————————— 22, 821 05 WECOTALONS 2 wee hoes Sc oe ER EEE CEE CELE ESE Ree 2, 000 00 Construction and superintendence. ........-..eshte nee 5, OVO 00
Miscellaneous expenses : A.—Survey and levels of ground, clearing of site, re-
PBITS LO TOADS nOlC >< cye ae cei eon te ere aaie's otto 1, 206 55 B.—Printing, advertising, and photographie copies for
circulation aniong, bidders. 2 aeniseoo serene 1,377 14 C.—Platform scales, tools, models, and sheds ......-. 1,036 71 D.—Clerical services and watchmen......-.....---.1,571 00
E..—Stationery, office-furniture, telegraph attachment and service, traveling expenses and other inci-
dentalls:. «a sate keepers AEE Me eats Sis cee 970 94 Total expenditures to January 1, 1880.....--........... $143, 146 38 Amount appropriated by Congress..............-.-----; 250, 009 60
Balance to credit of the building under date of January 1, DS BO sree ox. Bis cheiercters SS ee ee erred ets reer 106. 853 62
The materials for the completion of the building are mostly engaged under existing contracts, and represent a liaOU Lover Glee 2 cca ais, Pe es, ho ee ee OS: 58, 853 62
Hence, balance remaining for labor of finishing and for completine. the required. material’ o>. joe eee $48, 000 00 This balance is sufficient to justify the expectation that the building will be completed within the appropriation, ready for receiving the heating apparatus and glass cases.

<<<Page: 144>>>

The contracts entered into and their present condition are enumerated in the adjoining table:
Contracts and accepted proposals entered into and in force during the progress of the work.
Date of contract.
1879. Apr. 14... <. Apr. Apr. 23 Apr. 2 Apr. Apr. Apr.
Apr.
Apr. Apr 30) 25: May 10) ..--
SO Berean
Sly? So. ales 12).
duly 22....
Wee9 see
1820.
Rate.
Specified | Present
Description of work. Name of contractor. Saivl (cai nn, Sandie ccceeeesessnese: John Mailler==-s--2ccsee 73 cents percubic) Pesce. ce. -/ In force yard. Gneiss rubble stone... .| Jos. A. Blundon.......-. $1.69 ayo: cCubich |psesceeeeee Completo. yard. || (Enea tie co oaenacnosesas Glecsony apembertas-.| secccc ses sec ase $129 20 Do. Dp. CeO ERD See eee oce |yeooncanods Omsensnecieen|) Lot (Cents sper Cul-n|scseaee aoe Do. bie yard.| Concrete foundations : ILRI Oso coodae ccdocs| Eécasshonae Ole ccsccscees 30 Cents) per! CU}220ce. sec. Do. bic yard. Rubble-stone masonry : Wabouaescests oho | lessee eaes dOmecsessie=t $1315) POL) CUDIC) | Pose sclee ese Do. yard.| Concrete stone: Materialaaceeclsia sot | matinee ee (Wee ooosesaar S169 per CUDICH Wean-aecees Do. yard. Cut.stone work ....-... RothwellierLloydeasese|sesseee esac eeee 7,446 21 Materialtandilaborss|Pacecncesecosenececconee: 75 cents per linear |........-..|Complete. foot for additional window® sills. 45 cents additional per square foot for bondstones. DLAMO) S22 scfecsiesisssicteiCarson & Son, of River| 63 cents per bar|...---..--. In force. ton, Vt. rel of 2U0 Ibs. Comont' 222 sce5 <n 322 Cumberland Hydraulic | 87 cents per 300 |...-. eG ESDE Do. Cement Company. pounds. Mindow, frames and | Barber, Henderson & |...............-.-. 4,673 80 Do. sash. Co. Brick-work (labor) ..... Gleeson & Himber..--.. $5; 51s DOTs Mier eeren |e eencetteeee Complete. IBTICKS era ass cee ee aero Washington Brick Ma-| Common, $6.23 |........... In force. chine Company. per M.; Face, $8.23 per M. Rolled-iron beams...... New Jersey Steel and | Extrabeams, 2.35 | 2,865 00 |Complete. Iron Co., Trenton. cents per Ib., delivered. Iron roofs, stairs, rail| C. A. Schneider & Sons |..............----. 36, 856 39 | In force. ings. Galvanized-iron’ work,’ || 'Stockstilll & Co _-2.---.|---s.--c-<ecesas 4,399 89 Do. material and labor. Drenaee, material, la| Blinkhorn & Hannan ..|.................-2, 312 26 Do. or. Slaters’ work and fast| Jno. O. Jones ........-. $.165: persquare, |.-......... Do. enings. and 75 cents additional for any double fastenings. Blue/slatelcn.-tecccsss.. Ed. Roberts, of Ore | $4.80 per square..| ........-. Do. Banks. Va. .| Red slate and green | Story & Wilbur, of Bos-| Green, $6.20; red, |....--.---. Complete. slate. ton. $9. 10 per square. Interior doors’ and || Jos: Thomas & Son, |.-....-...-.:-.2-.1, 241 00 | In force. frames. Baltimore. Mair-entrance doorss==||PAug Grass soos. css-s4 neeceaceeeescceccee 730 00 Do. Underground piping | Baker, Smith & Co., |......-......-----5, 770 00 Do. for heating. New York. Florida pine flooring ...| Thos. W. Smith ........ $30.75 per M. B. M.|.......--.. Do.
In conclusion, we beg to state that in addition to our steady personal attendance we have kept constantly upon the ground, up to the close of the season, a general superintendent in the person of Mr. John H. Bird;
end that Mr. W. W. Karr, the clerk in charge of platform scales, time

<<<Page: 145>>>

books, and the miscellaneous office duties connected with the progress of the work, has rendered our duties easier by hearty co-operation. We are indebted to him for the record of many of the details contained in this report. We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servants, CLUSS & SCHULZE, Architects.

<<<Page: 146>>>

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 17, 1880.
The annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held this day at 10 o’clock a. m., in the Regents’ room.
Present, the Chancellor, Chief-Justice Waite; Hon. Wm. A. Wheeler, Vice-President of the United States; Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. R. E. Withers, Hon. N. Booth, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. Hiester Clymer, Hon. Joseph E. Johnston, Dr. John Maclean, Dr. Asa Gray, Hon. Peter Parker, President Noah Porter, General Wm. T. Sherman, and the Secretary, Professor Baird.
(Dr. H. Coppée, the only member of the Board absent, was accidentally detained on the road, and did not reach Washingten until after the adjournment of the Board.)
The Secretary made the following announcements relative to the appointment of members of the Board of Regents.
The vacancy in the Board occasioned by the expiration of the term of Fion. A. A. Sargent, of California had been filled on the 21st of March, 1879, by the appointment by the President of the Senate of Hon. Newton Booth, of California.
On the 4th of April, 1879, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. 8. J. Randall, had reappointed as Regents Hon. H. Clymer of Pennsylvania and Hon. J. A. Garfield of Ohio, and had appointed Hon. Joseph E. Johnston of Virginia vice Hon. Alex. H. Stephens, who had declined reappointment.
A joint resolution had passed Congress and been approved by the President of the United States December 19, 1879, providing that the ‘vacancies in the Board of Regents of the class other than members of Congress shall be filled by the reappointment of Asa Gray of Massachusetts, Henry Coppée of Pennsylvania, John Maclean of New Jersey, and Peter Parker of the city of Washington, whose terms have expired.”
The minutes of the Board of January 16, 1879, were read, and, after slight amendment, approved.
The Secretary presented a statement of the financial condition of the Institution, and stated that in order to save time this statement and all the accounts of the Institution had been referred to the Executive Committee.
Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented and read the annual report of the committee relative to the receipts and expenditures

<<<Page: 147>>>

of the Institution and the National Museum for the year 1879, the condition of the funds, estimates for the year 1880, We.
On motion of General Garfield, it was—
Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee for 1879 be accepted.
Resolved, That the income for the year 1880 be appropriated for the service of the Institution upon the basis of the above report, to be expended by the Secretary with full discretion as to the items, subject to the approval of the Executive Committee.
Dr. Gray, from the committee on the Henry memorial, reported that the material for the volume had been collected, and was now in the hands of the Publie Printer.
On motion of Dr. Withers the committee was continued, and further time granted.
Dr. Parker called attention to the fact that the resolution of the 17th of January, 1879, limited the allowance to the Secretary for house-rent, &c., to the 31st of December, 1879.
On motion of Mr. Hamhn, it was—
esolved, That the Secretary of the Institution be allowed the sum of one hundred and twenty-five dollars per month for rent, fuel, gas, &e.
On motion of Dr. Parker, it was—
Resolved, That an allowance of one hundred and fifty dollars be made to defray the funeral expenses of the late Tobias N. Woltz, who was superintendent of the building for twenty-two years.
General Sherman presented and read the report of the National Museum Building Commission appointed by resolution of the Board January 17, 1879.
He also presented the report of the architects, Messrs. Cluss & Schulze.
On motion of Mr. Clymer, the reports were accepted.
On motion of General Garfield, it was—
Resolved, That the Board of Regents hereby express their high appre-
‘ciation of the contribution made to science by the late Simeon Habel, and of the bequest which he made to the Smithsonian Institution.
The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the Institution for the year 1879, which was read, and, on motion of General Sherman, it was—
Resolv a. That the report be accepted and transmitted to Congress.
The Sap d then adjourned sine die.

<<<Page: 148>>>

By WILLIAM J. RHEES.
JAMES SMITHSON was born in England about the year 1754, the precise date and place of his nativity being unknown.* He was a natural son of Hugh Smithson, first Duke of Northumberland, his mother being a Mrs. Elizabeth Macie, of an old family in Wiltshire of the name of Hungerford. Nothing has been learned of her history.
Hugh Smithson, his father, was distinguished as a member of one of the most illustrious houses of Great Britain, and also because of his alliance with the renowned family of Percy.
The Smithson baronetcy arose with an earlier Hugh Smithson, the second son of Anthony Smithson, esq., of Newscome or Newsham, in the parish of Kirby-on-the-Mount, Yorkshire, who was thus rewarded by Charles II in 1660, for his services in the royalist cause during the civil wars. His grandson, Sir Hugh Smithson, married Elizabeth, danghter of the second Lord Langdale, and had two sons. Hugh, the eldest, died unmarried, before his father; Langdale, the second son, married Miss Revely, by whom he left one son, Hugh. This son succeeded his grandfather as Sir Hugh Smithson, of Stanwick, in 1750, and was the father of the subject of the present sketch. He married Lady Percy on the 16th July, 1740. Her father inherited the Dukedom of Somerset in 1741, and was created Earl of Northumberland in 1749. On his death, in 1750, Sir Hugh Smithson succeeded to these honors and on the 22d of October, 1766, was created first Duke of Northumberlandt and Earl Percy, with succession to his heirs male ; and finally in 1784 the barony of Lovaine of Alnwick was added to his accumulated dignities,
The Duchess died in 1776. The Duke survived till 1786,t and was succeeded by his son Hugh (half brother of James Smithson), as the second Duke of Northumberland.§
Hugh Smithson, the first Duke of Northumberland, had (besides James Smithson) another natural son, who was known as Henry Louis Dickinson. He received a good education, entered the military service, was commissioned lieutenant-colonel on the 1st of January, 1800, and on the 4th of August, 1808, took command of the Eighty-fourth Regiment of Foot. He saw active service on the Continent and in Asia and Africa. His estate was left to the care of his half-brother, Mr. James Smithson, in trust for the benefit of his son, and this was probably the source of a large part of the fund which eventually came to the United States.
*See Appendix. Note 3. t There was a previous Duke of Northumberland who died without issue in 1716, and the title became extinct. {See Appendix. Note 2.
§ See Appendix. Note 3. 143

<<<Page: 149>>>

The possession by the first Duke of Northumberland of titles and dignities only inferior to those of royalty was of little consequence to his son James Smithson. Deprived by the bar sinister on his escutcheon from claiming the family name and honors, he nevertheless aspired to win a fame more universal and lasting than these could have bestowed upon him. He devoted himself to original research in the field of science, and sought to be known and honored by his fellow-men as a discoverer of new truths. Moreover, he resolved to attach his name to an institution unique in its character, noble in its object, and universal in its beneficence, of which John Quincy Adams has well said, ‘Of all the foundations of establishments for pious or charitable uses which ever signalized the spirit of the age or the comprehensive beneficence of the founder, none can be named more deserving of the approbation of mankind.”
Smithson’s feeling in regard to posthumous fame was strikingly expressed in the following sentence found in one of his manuscripts.
“The best blood of England flows in my veins; on my father’s side I am a Northumberland, on my mother’s Iam related to kings, but this avails me not. My nameshall live in the memory of man when the titles of the Northumberlands and the Percys are extinct and forgotten.”
As Prof. W. R. Johnson has well observed in speaking of Smithson: ‘The man of science is willing to rest on the basis of his own labors alone for his credit with mankind, and his fame with future generations. In the view of such a man, the accidents of birth, of fortune, of local habitation, and conventional rank in the artificial organization of society, all sink into insignificance by the side of a single truth of nature. If he have contributed his mite to the increase of knowledge; if he have diffused that knowledge for the benefit of man, and above all, if he have applied it to the useful, or even to the ornamental purposes of life, he has laid not his family, not his country, but the world of mankind under a lasting obligation.”
The eloquent words of John Quincy Adams in reference to the fame to be conferred on Smithson by the suecessful accomplishment of the great design he had in view by his bequest are appropriate in this connection.
‘The father of the testator upon forming his alliance with the heiress of the family of the Percys, assumed, by an act of the British Parliament, that name, and, under it, became Duke of Northumberland. But renowned as is the name of Perey in the historical annals of England ; resounding as it does from the summit of the Cheviot Hills to the ears of our children in the ballad of Chevy Chace, with the classical commentary of Addison; freshened and renovated in our memory as it bas recently been from the purest fountain of poetical inspiration in the loftier strain of Alnwick Castle, tuned by a bard from our own native land (Fitz Greene Halleck); doubly immortalized as it is in the deathless dramas of Shakspeare ; ‘confident against the world in arms,’ as it may have been in ages long past and may still be in the virtues of its present

<<<Page: 150>>>

possessors by inheritance, let the trust of James Smithson to the United States of America be faithfully executed by their representatives in Congress, let the result accomplish his object, ‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,’ and a wreath of more unfading verdure shall entwine itself in the lapse of future ages around the name of SMITHSON, than the united hands of tradition, history, and poetry have braided around the name of Percy through the long perspective in ages past of a thousand years.”
The Duke of Northumberland provided a liberal education for his son James, who pursued his studies at Oxford University, where he became attached to Pembroke College, distinguished for having among its fellows the learned Blackstone, the eloquent Whitfield, and the celebrated Dr. Samuel Johnson. Here the young student was noted for diligence, application, and good scholarship, and attracted marked attention by his proficiency in chemistry. His vacations were passed in excursions to collect minerals and ores which it was his favorite oceupation to analyze. At Oxford he received the impulse for scientific research which characterized all his future life, and the ardent desire not only to advance knowledge himself but to devote in after years his whole fortune to provide means by which others could prosecute this high and noble pursuit.
He was graduated at Pembroke College on the 26th of May, 1786, as JAMES Lewis MACTIE,* by which name he seems at that time to have been known, and which he retained for about fourteen years, when he adopted that of JAMES SMITHSON.t
Smithson never married, and as a man of wealth had ample opportunity for leisure or the indulgence of mere personal gratification. But idleness and pleasure were not compatible with the spirit and ardor of the young student of chemistry. He diligently pursued his investigations, and his ambition to become associated with the votaries of science induced him to seek membership in the Royal Society of London.
“The Royal Society of London,” says Arago, “ enjoys throughout the whole kingdom a vast and deserved consideration. The philosophical transactions which it publishes have been for more than a century and a half the glorious archives in which British genius holds it an honor to deposit its titles to the recognition of posterity. The wish to see his name inscribed in the list of fellow-laborers in this truly national collection beside the names of Newton, Bradley, Priestley, and Cavendish, has always been among the students of the celebrated universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, and Dublin, the most anxious as well as legitimate object of emulation. Here is always the highest point of ambition of the man of science.”
*So given in the Oxford Catalogue. In the Philosophical Transactions and the Gentleman’s Magazine the name is given as James Louis Macie.
+ His second paper in the Philosophical Transactions, 1602, is by James Smithson. Sir Davies Gilbert, in his eulogy of him in 1830, calls him James Lewis Smnithson.
S. Mis. 54 10

<<<Page: 151>>>

The following is the official reeommendation of his application to the society, bearing the signatures of some of its most illustrious members :
‘‘ James Lewis Macie, Esq., M. A., late of Pembroke College, Oxford,
and now of John Street, Golden Square—a gentleman well versed in various branches of Natural Philosophy, and particularly in Chymistry and Mineralogy, being desirous of becoming a Fellow of the Royal Society, we whose names are hereto subscribed do, from our personal knowledge of his merit, judge him highly worthy of that honour and likely to become a very useful and valuable Member.” ‘
He was admitted a fellow on the 26th of aaa My 1787, in less than one year after leaving the university.*
Smithson’s lodgings for some time were in Bentinck street, a locality famous as the place where Gibbon wrote much of his ‘ Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.” Here, with authors, artists, and savans, Smithson found congenial fellowship. His mind was filled with a craving for intellectual development, and for the advancement of human knowiedge. To enlarge the domain of thought, to discover new truths, and to make practical application of these for the promotion of civilization, were the great ends he had constantly in view.
For purposes of scientific inquiry he engaged in extensive tours in various parts of Europe; making minute observations wherever he went on the climate, the physical features and geological structure of the locality visited, the characteristics of its minerals, the methods employed in mining or smelting ores, and in all kinds of manufactures.
These numerous journeys and sojourns abroad gave him a cosmopolitan character, and illustrated one of his own sayings: “the man of science is of no country, the world is his country, all mankind his coun-
eeerack Pe Journal Book of the Royal Society.
Ordinary meeting, Jan. 18, 1787.—Certificates were read recommending for election Louis Pinto de Sousa Coutinho, Knight of the Orders of Malta and Christ, and Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from the Queen of Portugal to the Court of Great Britain. Also Sir Thomas Gery Cullum, Bart., of Bury Saint Edmunds, in Suffolk, and James Lewis Macirp, Esq., M. A., late of Pembroke College, Oxford, and now of John Stieet, Golden Square.
April 19, 1787.— Louis Pinto de Sousa Coutinho, Portuguese Minister at the Court of Great Britain, Sir Thos. Gery Cullum, Bart.,and JAMES LEwIs MACIEg, Esq., Certificates in whose favour had hung the usual time in the Meeting Room were put to the ballot and chosen into the Society,
April 26, 1787.— James Lewis Macip, Esq., and Sir Thos. Gery Cullum, Bart., elected at a former meeting attended. They paid their admission fees, compounded for Annual Contributions, and having signed the obligation in the Charter book were admitted fellows of the Society.

<<<Page: 152>>>

trymen.” This fact is exemplified by the life of Smithson—born in England, spending most of his time in France and Germany, buried in Italy, and leaving his name and fortune to the United States of America.
Desiring to bring to the practical test of actual experiment every ching that came to his notice, he fitted up and carried with him a portable laboratory. He collected also a cabinet of minerals composed of thousands of minute specimens, including all the rarest gems, so that immediate comparison could be made of a novel or undetermined specimen, with an accurately arranged and labeled collection. With minute balances, his weights scarcely exceeding a gram, and with articles so delicate as to be scarcely visible, he made the most accurate and satisfactory determinations. With a few pieces, not exceeding half a cubic inch in size, of tabasheer, a substance found in the hollow of bambco canes, he made over two hundred and fifty different experiments. *
The value which Smithson placed on such minute researches is incidentally shown by a remark in his paper on ‘ fluorine.” He says, “there may be persons who, measuring the importance of the subject by the magnitude of the object, will cast a supercilious look on this discussion; but the particle and the planet are subject to the same laws, and what is learned of the one will be known of the other.”
Smithson’s ardor for knowledge and his zeal as a collector of new and rare minerals exposed him sometimes to hardship and privation. An interesting account of one of his journeysis given in his private journal.
In 1784, in company with Mr. Thornton, Mons. Faujas de St. Fond, the celebrated geologist of France, the Italian Count Andrioni, and others, he made a tour through New Castle, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dumbarton, Tarbet, Inverary, Oban, Arran, and the island of Staffa.
As stated in Mr. Smithson’s journal, the party had arrived at a house on the coast of Mull, opposite the island, and the journal continues:
“Mr. Turtusk got me a separate boat; set off about half-past eleven o’clock in the morning, on Friday, the 24th of September, for Staffa. Some wind, the sea a little rough; wind increased, sea ran very high ; rowed round some part of the island, but found it impossible to go before Fingal’s cave; was obliged to return; landed on Staffa with difficulty ; sailors press to go off again immediately; am unwilling to depart without having thoroughly examined the island. Resolve to stay all night. Mr. Maclaire stays with me; the other party which was there had already come to the very same determination; all crammed into one bad hut, though nine of ourselves besides the family; supped upon eggs, potatoes, and milk; lay upon hay, in a kind of barn.” (The party, be it remembered, embraced two English gentlemen, one French savant, one Italian count.)
25th. Got up early, sea ran very high, wind extremely strong—no boat could put off. Breakfasted on boiled potatoes and milk; dined upon the same; only got a few very bad fish; supped on potatoes and
*See Appendix. Note 4.

<<<Page: 153>>>

milk; lay in the barn, firmly expecting to stay there for a week, without even bread.”
“Sunday the 26th.—The man of the island came at five or six o’clock in the morning to tell us that the wind was dropped, and that it was a good day. Set off in the small boat, which took water so fast that my servant was obliged to bail constantly—the sail, an old plaid—the ropes, old garters.”
On the 29th, the tourists are at Oban, where a little cireumstance is noted, which significantly marks the zeal and activity of the collector of minerals and fossils, and the light in which devotion to geology is sometimes viewed. :
“September 29.—This day packed up my fossils in a barrel, and paid 2s, 6d. for their going by water to Edinburgh. Mr. Stevenson charged half a crown a night for my rooms, because I had brought ‘stones and dirt, as he said into it.”
A month later he visited Northwich.
“October 28.—Went to visit one of the salt mines, in which they told me there were two kinds of salt. They let me down in a bucket, in which I only put one foot, and I had a miner with me. I think the first shaft was about thirty yards, at the bottom of which was a pool of water, but on one side there was a horizontal opening, from which sunk a second shaft, which went to the bottom of the pit, and the man let us down in a bucket smaller than the first.” *
These incidents indicate the character of Smithson as a scientific enthusiast, not easily deterred by the fear of personal inconvenience from the pursuit of his favorite object.
Much of his life was passed on the Continent, in Berlin, Paris, Rome, Florence, and Geneva, enjoying everywhere the friendship and respect of the leading men of science,t and always devoting himself to the study of physical phenomena. Distinguished authors, as Gay-Lussac, Marcet, Haiiy, Berzelius, and Cordier, presented him with their scientific paperst as soon as published, and he enjoyed intimate association and correspondence with Davy, Gilbert, Arago, Biot, Klaproth, Black, and others. §
As a chemist, Sir Davies Gilbert, President of the Royal Society, pronounced Smithson to be the rival of Wollaston, of whom Magendie said, ‘his hearing was so fine he might have been thought to be blind, and his sight so piercing he might have been supposed to be deaf.” It is related of him that he made a galvanic battery in a thimble, and a platinum wire much finer than any hair.
* Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, p. 140.
+Galton, in speaking of Erasmus Darwin, remarks: “ He was held in very high esteem by his scientifie friends, including such celebrities as Priestley and James Watt, and it is by a man’s position among his contemporaries and competitors that his work may most justly be appraised.” Francis Galton, Hnglish Men of Science.
{See Appendix.—Note 5.
§ See Appendix.—Note 6.

<<<Page: 154>>>

Prof. Walter R. Johnson has made the following remarks respecting Smithson:
‘¢ It appears from his published works that his was not the character of a mere amateur of science. He was an active and industrious laborer in the most interesting and important branch of research—mineral chemistry. A contemporary of Davy and of Wollaston, and a correspondent of Black, Banks, Thomson, and a host of other names renowned in the annals of science, it is evident that his labors had to undergo the scrutiny of those who could easily have detected errors, had any of a serious character been committed. His was a capacity by no means contemptible for the operations and expedients of the laboratory. He felt the importance of every help afforded by a simplification of methods and means of research, and the use of minute quantities and accurate determinations in conducting his inquiries.”
Smithson says in one of his papers, “chemistry is yet so new a science,” what we know of it bears so small a proportion to what we are ignorant of; our knowledge in every department of it is so incomplete, consisting so entirely of isolated points, thinly scattered, like lurid specks on a vast field of darkness, that no researches can be undertaken without producing some facts leading to consequences which extend beyond the boundaries of their immediate object.”* |
Many of these “lurid specks ” in the vast field of darkness of which Smithson spoke so feelingly, have, Prof. Johnson observes, ‘“ since his days of activity expanded into broad sheets of light. Chemistry has assumed its rank among the exact sciences. Methods and instruments of analysis unknown to the age of Smithson have come into familiar use among chemists. ‘hese may have rendered less available for the present purposes of science than they otherwise might have been, a portion of the analysis and other researches of our author. The same may, however, be said of nearly every other writer of his day.”
Although his principal labors were in analytical chemistry, he distinguished himself by his researches in mineralogy and crystallography, in all his work exhibiting the most careful and minute attention to accuracy.t In his second published paper, he observes: “It may be proper to say that the experiments have been stated precisely as they turned out, and have not been in the least degree bent to the system.”
That he pursued his investigations in a philosophic spirit, and with proper methods, is evident from the favor with which his contributions to the scientific societies and transactions of the day were received by his contemporaries, and the fact that the results he reached are still accepted as scientific truths.¢
*A chemical analysis of some calamines. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No, 327, p. 26.
+ He carefully noted on the margins of his books mistakes in grammar or orthography, and frequently corrected erroneous statements or improper references in the indexes.
{ An account of some of Smithson’s experiments and copies of his notes on minerals and rocks are given in a paper on the works and character of James Smithson, by Dr. J. R. McD. Irby. Smithsonian Miscell. Collections, No. 327, 1879, p. 143.

<<<Page: 155>>>

In one of his essays, he divides the sources of knowledge into, 1st, observation; 2d, reasoning; 3d, information; 4th, conjecture. In all his researches he began the process of acquisition by observing.
One of his sentiments has been adopted as the motto on the publications of the Smithsonian Institution; viz: “ Hvery man is a valuable member of society, who, by his observations, researches, and experiments, procures knowledge for men.”
In a critical notice of Davy’s Elements of Chemical Philosophy in the Quarterly Review for 1812, the writer speaking of recent advances in chemistry, and especially in the establishment and extension of the law of definite proportions, remarks: “ For these facts the science is principally indebted, after Mr. Higgins, to Dalton, Gay-Lussaec, Smithson, and W ollaston.”*
The mineral species “Smithsonite,” a carbonate of zinc, was discovered and analyzed by him, among some ores from Somersetshire and Derbyshire, England. The name, Simithsonite, appears to have been conferred on it by the great French mineralogist Beudant.
It is interesting to notice the number and variety of specimens from the vegetable kingdom that Smithson subjected to analysis. They include the violet, red rose, red clover, daisy, blue hyacinth, hollyhock, lavender, artichoke, scarlet geranium, red cabbage, radish, poppy, plum, pomegranate, mulberry, cherry, currant, buckthorn berries, elder and privet berries. He also examined the coloring matter of animal greens.
It is perhaps worthy of note that his first paper related to an article of importance in the materia medica, and his last to a matter of practical value to artists. He by no means confined his attention to abstract science, but contributed knowledge of improved methods of constructing lamps, and of making tea and coffee. That such practical questions might be considered of little importance by men of science he seems to acknowledge by the remarks he makes in one of his papers.
“It is to be regretted,” he observes, ‘that those who cultivate science frequently withhold improvements in their apparatus and processes, from which they themselves derive advantage, owing to their not deeming them of sufficient magnitude for publication. When the sole view is to further a pursuit of whose importance to mankind a convietion exists, all that can should be imparted, however small may appear the merit which attaches to it.” t
A secretary of the French Academy deemed it his duty to offer an excuse for having given a detailed account of certain researches ot Leibnitz, which had not required great efforts of the intellect. ‘“ We ought,” says he, “to be very much obliged to a man such as he is, when
he condescends, for the public good, to do something which does not. partake of genius.” Arago remarked in his eulogy on Fourier, ‘ I can-
not conceive the ground of such scruples; in the present day the sciences
* Quarterly Review, 1812, vol. viii, p. 77. tSome improvements of lamps. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll. No. 327, p. 78.

<<<Page: 156>>>

are regarded from too high a point of view to allow us to hesitate in placing in the first rank of the labors with which they are adorned those which diffuse comfort, health, and happiness amidst the working population.”
In another of his papers Smithson says, referring to practical investigations :
“In all cases means of economy tend to augment and diffuse comfort and happiness. They bring within the reach of the many what wasteful proceeding confines to the few. By diminishing expenditure on one article they allow of some other enjoyment which was before unattainable. A reduction in quantity permits an indulgence in superior quality. In the present instance the importance of economy is particularly great since it is applied to matters of high price, which constitute one of the daily meals of a large portion of the population of the earth.”
“ That in cookery also the power of subjecting for an indefinite duration to a boiling heat, without the slightest dependiture of volatile matter, will admit of a beneficial application, is unquestionable.” *
In the books of his library are found numerous marginal notes, indieating his special attention to subjects relating to the health, comfort, resources, and happiness of the people.
Among his effeets were several hundred manuscripts and a great number of notes or scraps ona variety of subjects, including history, the arts, language, rural pursuits, &c. On the subject of ‘ habitations” were articles classified under the several heads of situation, exposure, exterior and interior arrangements, building materials, contents and adornment of rooms, furniture, pictures, statuary, &c. It is not improbable that he contemplated the preparation of a cyclopedia or philosophical dictionary.
Smithson’s contributions to scientific literature consist of twenty-seven papers, eight published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, in the years 1791, 1802, 1806, 1808, 1811, 1812, 1813, and 1817, and nineteen in Thomson’s Annals of Philosophy, a journal of the highest scientific character, in 1819, 1820, 1821, 1822, 1823, 1824, and 1525. ‘These papers have recently been collected and reprinted by the Smithsonian Institution.+ Several of them were previously republished in foreign scientific journals translated by himself.
It is highly probable that Smithson contributed articles to scientific and literary journals other than those mentioned, but they have not yet been discovered.
* An improved method of making cotfee. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, p. 88. + Smithsonian Miscell, Coll., No. 327, 1879, 8 vo., 166 pp.

<<<Page: 157>>>

The following is a list of his scientific writings :
1820. 1820.
1821. 1822.
1822. 1823. 1823. 1823. 1823. 1823. 1823.
1824.
On a native compound of sulphuret of lead and arsenic, vol. xiv, p. 96.
. On native hydrous alaminate of lead, or plomb gomme, vol. xiv,
Dp: on.
On a fibrous metatlic copper, vol. xvi, p. 46.
An account of a native combination of sulphate of barium and fluoride of calcium, vol. xvi, p. 48.
On some capillary metallic tin, vol. xvii. New series, vol. I, p. 271.
On the detection of very minute quantities of arsenic and mercury, vol. xx. New series, vol. iv, p. 127.
Some improvements of lamps, vol. xx. New series, vol. iv, p. 363.
On the crystalline form of ice, vol. xxi. New series, vol. v, p. 340.
A means of discrimination between the sulphates of barium and strontium, vol. xxi. New series, vol. v, p. 309.
On the discovery of acids in mineral substances, vol. xxi. New series, vol. v, p. 384.
An improved method of making coffee, vol. xxii. New series, vol. vi, p. 30. |
A discovery of chloride of potassium in the earth, vol. xxii. New series, vol. vi, p. 258.
A method of fixing particles on the sappare, vol. xxii. New series, Vol. vi, p. 412.
On some compounds of fluorine, vol. xxiii. New series, vol. vii, p100.
. An examination of some Egyptian colors, vol. xxiii. New series,
vol. vii, p. 115. Some observations on Mr. Penn’s theory concerning the formation of the Kirkdale Cave, vol. xxiv. New series, vol. viii, p. 50.

<<<Page: 158>>>

1825. Note to a letter from Dr. Black, describing a very sensible balance, vol. xxvi. New series, vol. x, p. 52.
1825. A method of fixing crayon colors, vol. xxvi. New series, vol. x, p. 236.
Smithson’s writings all exhibit clearness of perception, terseness of language and accuracy of expression.*
A trait of Smithson’s character is exhibited in the allusions he makes in his writings to other scientific men. His expressions are always kind or complimentary, evidently not for the sake of flattery, but from a sense of justice and truthful recognition of merit. He speaks of Mr. Tennant as one ‘whose many and highly important discoveries have so greatly contributed to the progress of chemical science.” Abbe Haiiy he refers to as one “so justly celebrated for his great knowledge in crystallography, mineralogy,” &c. ‘The analysis we possess of natrolite by the illustrious chemist of Berlin,” &e.
Of Baron Cronstedt he says, “ the eet mineralogist who has yet appeared.”
‘““A query from the celebrated Mr. Vauquelin.”
“The celebrated Mr. Klaproth, to whom nearly every department of chemistry is under numerous and great obligations.”
“M. Berzelius’ elegant method of detecting phosphorie acid,” &e.
““M. Werner, its principal and most distinguished professor,” Se.
Smithson died on the 27th of June, 1829, at Genoa, Italy. He was buried in the Protestant cemetery, about a mile west of Genoa, on the high elevation which forms the west side of the harbor and overlooks the town of Sampierdarena. His grave is marked by a handsome monument. The base is of pale gray marble, 6 feet and a half long, 3 feet wide, and 3? feet high. On the top of this is a white marble urn suitably proportioned to the base. The lot is inclosed by an iron fence, with gray marble corner posts. On one side of the monument the inscription is as follows:
“ Sacred to the memory of ratiek Smithson, esq., Fellow of the Royal Society, London, who died at Genoa the 26th June, 1829, aged 75 years.”
On the other side is the following:
“This monument is erected, and the ground on which it stands purchased in perpetuity, by Henry Hungerford, esq., the deceased’s nephew, in token of gratitude to a generous benefactor and as a tribute to departed worth.”
The announcement of his departure called forth expressions of regret from prominent men of science, and as he had been an honored Fellow of the Royal Society, its president, Sir Davies Gilbert, alluded to it on two occasions. At the meeting of the Royal Society ae 30, 1829, he remarked, “In no previous interval of twelve months has the society
*A few extracts from his published writings are given in the Appendix, Note 7.

<<<Page: 159>>>

collectively, or have its individual members, experienced losses so severe, or so much in every respect to be deplored.” Among the names then referred to were those of Dr. W. H. Wollaston, Dr. Thomas Young, and Sir Humphrey Davy. To these illustrious savans he adds that of James Smithson, who, he says, ‘‘has added eight communications to our Transactions. He was distinguished by the intimate friendship of Mr. Cavendish, and rivalled our most expert chemists in elegant analyses.”*
At the following anniversary meeting of the Royal Society, November 30, 1830, the president, Sir Davies Gilbert, delivered an address in which, after speaking of the death of Major Kennele and Mr. Chevenix, he says:
* * * (The only remaining individual who has taken a direct and active part in our labours, by contributing to the Transactions, is Mr. James Lewis Smithson, and of this gentleman I must be allowed to speak with affection. We were at Oxford together, of the same college, and our acquaintance continued to the time of his decease.
“Mr. Smithson, then called Macie, and an undergraduate, had the reputation of excelling all other resident members of the University in the knowledge of chemistry. He was early honored by an intimate acquaintance with Mr. Cavendish; he was admitted into the Royal Society, and soon after presented a paper on the very curious concretion frequently found in the hollow of bambi canes, named Tabasheer. This he found to consist almost entirely of silex, existing in a manner similar to what Davy long afterwards discovered in the epidermis of reeds and grasses.
‘‘Mr. Smithson enriched our Transactions with seven other communications: A chemical analysis of some calamines. Account of a discovery of native minium. On the composition and crystallization of certain sulphurets from Huel Boys in Cornwall. On the composition of zeolite. On a substance procured from the elm tree, called Ulmin. On a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius. Facts relative to the colouring matter of vegetables.
‘‘ He was the friend of Dr. Wollaston, aaa at the same time his rival in the manipulation and analysis of small quantities. dAya0y_ 0 eps 402 Bpototst. Mr. Smithson frequently repeated an occurrence with much pleasure and exultation, as exceeding anything that could be brought into competition with it; and this must apologize for my introducing what might otherwise be deemed an anecdote too light and trifling on such an occasion as the present.
‘Mr. Smithson declared that happening to observe a tear gliding down a lady’s cheek, he endeavored to catch it on a erystal vessel; that one-half of the drop escaped, but having preserved the other half he submitted it to reagents, and detected what was then called microcosimic
salt, with muriate of soda, and, I think, three or four more saline substances, held in solution.
*Philosophical Magazine, 1830, vol. vii, p. 42.

<<<Page: 160>>>

“For many years past Mr. Smithson has resided abroad, principally, I believe, on account of his health; but he carried with him the esteem and regard of various private friends, and of a still larger number of persons who appreciated and admired his acquirements.” *
This tribute to his memory and worth shows the high standing Smithson had attained in the estimation of his compeers, and that he secured the fidelity and affection of his dependants is evinced by the care with which, in his will, he provides a reward for their attachment and services.
“It has been the lot of the greatest part of those who have excelled in science,” says Dr. Johnson, ‘‘to be known only by their own writings, and to have left behind them no remembrance of their domestic life or private transactions, or only such memorials of particular passages as are on certain occasions necessarily recorded in public registers.”
To the same efiect, Wilson, in his life of Cavendish (the warm friend of Smithson), remarks: ‘‘So careless has his own country been of his memory that although he was for some fifty years a well-known and very distinguished Fellow of the Royal Society, a member for a lengthened period of the French Institute, and an object of Kuropean interest to men of science, yet scarcely anything can be learned concerning his early history. This, no doubt, is owing in great part to his own dishike of publicity, and to the reserve and love of retirement which strongly characterized him. Long before his death however, he was so conspicuous a person in the scientific circles of London that the incidents of his early life might readily have been ascertained. They were not, it should seem, inquired into by any biographer.”t
This is eminently true of Smithson. We are unfortunately debarred from acquiring an intimate knowledge of his personal traits and peculiarities by the absence of an autobiography, or even of any sketch of his life by his friends. For this reason we are more ready to avail ourselves of every fact in regard to him that can be ascertained, however triviai or insignificant any one of these might otherwise be cnsidered. Even an inventory of his wardrobe and a schedule of his personal property possesses an Interest and serves at least to gratify a natural curiosity. Such a list has recently been found as certified by the English consul at Genoa, after the death of Smithson, witha valuation of the different articles:
Frances. PM CAPriACe TeOMplebeese = Mri ics 2 22/20: /s oar. ai ceatoke yeieie ess ae 2,500 00
Twenty-six silver forks, one salad fork, eight desert spoons,
eighteen spoons, four sauce-ladles, one soup ladle, four salt
spoons, three sugar ladles, one tea shell, three silver-head
corks, two silver vessels, one toasting fork, weighing in all
1934 ounces of silver, valued by Mr. A. Canissa,a goldsmith 1,050 00 nNOS) SOM LCP eabebe oe procls) «|< 11) Geel eeiee sf cies 6s -<5,8 200 00
* The Philosophical Magazine, January-June, 1831, vol. ix, p. 41. tGeorge Wilson. Life of Henry Cavendish. London, 1851.

<<<Page: 161>>>

A Geneva gold watch .......... os: seis whe icte eho ere eee Two gold snuff-boxes, one toothpick case, and two shirt but-
One pin with sixteen small diamonds...........-...--..... One ring with composition set in diamonds ........ es ee Onermn> Of agate 20. foe. etl ete Peele eee eee One sing, cameo; head ofa Meoreaac ee ae eee eae Two small boxes, one of tortoise shell, the other of amber. One cold Ting se eee eee Sefer erratatear ee jscenieee One small silver pick case........ ES Se s isoae Seale Sera A*clasp of coldswith Wait. s ese se2 eee ees ee ee Rhee ee A clasp with diamonds: -..-.-----. =>... 25... SPelsctete a ene A pin with hair and diamonds..-.-. Ste eta Sale age heen pcicne PASCAMICO Ps fo ei neqyoae ele aes ee ete ete eee ee ee ee Al ring “with ‘diamonds % 22) 22-2 +... 2, See Set ce po Sere eee Sixteen shirts, nineteen cravats, forty-four pocket handker-
chiefs, thirteen pairs of stockings, three nightcaps, two
pair of drawers, two pair of sheets, three pillow-cases, seven
waistcoats, two flannel waistcoats, six pair pantaloons, two
cloth pantaloons, three coats, one nightgown, one dressing
coat, two pair braces, four pair gloves............ Beye penton One telescopet 22. a seem oes A ahs etal cla tey Ieiiia?e aiel o-pet eee Many small articles... . . BER AIR DEE N e e) Yd y A Rete A An Two pasteboard boxes containing medals, coins, stones, &e. One parcel containing papers relative to the Grand Canal*_.. Several parcels of papers and five books.......-...-.--.--..112 Napoleons in gold and 34 francs 60 centimes, in the hands’
oF Messrs? Gibbs COcetcccnee sees oe tect cee ee ee Cash in hands of Messrs. Gibbs & Co ............ Senate eee
One parcel, thirteen certificates Spanish stock, Paris, 4th September, 1822, 350 piastres rente @Espagne, par value, franes 24,097 50, valued at.....-.-.. Promissory note for 295 franes, dated Ist June, 1824, due by Alexis Silenne . oos'27/ Ate Sn ee eee eran eee cae oa earn Bond for 20,000 franes, dated 8th July, 1828, due by Sailly
SmacourOf 'Pari8i ccs doce ds oe Soe ee eee ee eee : Bill for 2,000 franes, dated 8th October, 1822, drawn by Mr. Nallly, accepted by Mr. Smithson 2263 220 .2 2200 cee Bank-note for £100, No. 14419, 19th December, 1827, in the hands of Messrs. Gibbs & @o.....-...... ive: Saeteee
Parcel containing accounts and letters from Messrs. Drum-
ee ee ees
eeete we --
3,780 00
295 00 20, 000 00 2,000 00
2,500 00
branches to the Severn, to Oxford, &c. It was proposed by Mr. Wedgwood, and was
the second one made in England.

<<<Page: 162>>>

Very few of these articles were transferred to Mr. Rush, the agent of the United States Government, who received the bequest. His enumeration of the personal effects of Smithson is as follows:
“A large trunk; a box containing sundry specimens of minerals; a beass instrament ; a box of minerals; a box of chemical glasses; a packet of minerals; a glass vinegar-cruet; a stone mortar; a pair of silver-plated candlesticks and branches ; a pair of silver-plated candlesticks without branches; a hone, in a mahogany case; a plated-wire flower-basket ; a plated coffee-pot; a small plated coffee-pot; a pair of wine-coolers; a pair of small candlesticks; two pair salt-cellars ; a bread-basket; two pair vegetable dishes and covers; a large round waiter; a large oval waiter; two small oval waiters ; two plate-warmers; a reading shade ; a gun; a mahogany cabinet; two portraits in oval frames; a china teaService, consisting of twelve cups and saucers; six coffee-cups; a teapot; a slop-basin; a sugar-basin and lid; two plates; a milk-jug; a teacanister; two dishes; a landscape in a gilt frame; a Derby-spar vase; a China tub; apiece of fluor-spar; a pairof glass candlesticks ; a marble bust; sundry books and pamphlets; two large boxes filled with specimens of minerals and manuscript treatises, apparently in the testator’s handwriting, on various philosophical subjects, particularly chemistry and mineralogy. Eight cases and one trunk filled with the like.”
With reference to a gun, pieces of china, and articles of a miscellaneous nature belonging to Smithson, Mr. Rush was informed by bis attorneys that they were taken in possession by his nephew, Henry James Hungerford.
Mr. Rush, in one of his dispatches to the State Department (July 14, 1838), says: ‘*The boxes and trunk are to go on shipboard to-day. Before knowing anything of their contents, I thought proper to have them opened and examined in the presence of our consul and two other persons. A large portion of the contents proved to be unimportant; nevertheless, all will be delivered over on my arrival as I received them, except to have them better packed for a sea voyage, and so as to prevent further injury to that which time and bad packing have already done to them.”
These articles remained in the New York custom house from the 29th of August, 1858, until June, 1841, when, at the earnest solicitation of the National Institute of Washington, they were sent to the latter city.
The trunk contained manuscripts and clothing, the latter consisting of the following articles, according to a list found among the papers of the National Institute: “1 net shirt, 4 sheets, 11 napkins, 5 light vests, 1 bag, 4 roundabouts, 5 light pants and short breeches, 1 bib, 3 drawers, 3 pair garters, 2 light coats, 1 cloth overcoat, 1 cloth military coat, 1 cloth hunting coat, 1 cloth cloak, 1 cloth surtout, 1 cloth pair of pants, 2 cloth vests, 4 pair stockings, 1 chapeau.”
The clothing was nearly ruined by moths, and was presented to an

<<<Page: 163>>>

orphan asylum. An examination of the effects was made by a committee of the National Institute, who made the following report as to part of them: ‘ A cabinet, consisting of a choice and beautiful collection of minerals, comprising probably eight or ten thousand specimens. These, though generally small, are exceedingly perfect, and constitute a very complete geological and mineralogical series, embracing the finest varieties of crystallization, rendered more valuable by accompanying figures and descriptions by Mr. Smithson, and in his own handwriting. The cabinet also contains a valuable suite of meteoric stones, which appear to be specimens of most of the meteorites which had fallen in Europe during several centuries.”
Mr. Francis Markoe, jr., himself an expert mineralogist, in a letter to the American Philosophical Society, 4th August, 1841, says “that among the valuable things contained in the Smithson boxes were found a superb collection, and very large, of precious stones and exquisite erystallized minerals, forming, as far as I can judge, decidedly the richest and rarest collection in this country.”
A medallion was found among his effects to which were attached the words ‘‘my likeness,” written in Smithson’s own hand. From this has been engraved the portrait published by the Institution, the great seal
rdered by the first Board of Regents, and the vignette which appears on all the Smithsonian publications. The original steel-plate portrait, engraved by J. W. Paradise, of New York, in 1847, was destroyed by fire, but it was finely reproduced for the Institution by Charles Burt, of New York, in 1879.
A full-length portrait (about one-fourth size) in oil, of Smithson, representing him in the costume of an Oxford student, was purchased by the Institution in 1850, for thirty guineas, from the widow of John Fitall, a former servant, to whom Smithson granted an annuity in his will.
Still later, in 1878, the Institution purchased from Mr. George Henry De la Batut, of France, a beautiful miniature in oil, on ivory, painted by Johns, on the 11th of May, 1816, at Aix-la-Chapelle.
The effects of Smithson were exhibited in the Patent Office building, Washington, until 1858, when they were transferred to the Smithsonian Institute, where they were unfortunately destroyed by fire on the 24th of January, 1865, with the exception of his books, a very few manuscript notes on minerals, and an oil painting of a landscape. A list of these books now in the Institution will be found in the appendix.*
The following articles are enumerated as the contents of case 23 in Alfred Hunter’s “ Popular Catalogue of the Extraordinary Curiosities in the National Institute, arranged in the building belonging to the Patent Office,” 1855:
“Silver plate with coat of arms of the Northumberland family ; chemical apparatus, test-cups, &c; thermometer, snuff-box, portrait of
*See Appendix—Note 8. a

<<<Page: 164>>>

JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. 15a
Smithson’s father, scales, umbrella-case, and riding-whip, sword-belt and plume, silver spoons and butter-knife, ornamented spools for winding gold wire, copper plate with his name engraved on it ; minerals of Smithson, a very superb collection, though small; silver candlestick ; an elegant service of silver, containing a great many pieces. These are all very much discolored by sulphurous gas. A marble head of Saint Cecilia, by Thorwaldsen, presented to Mr. Smithson at Copenhagen by Dr. Brandis, physician to the King of Denmark. A fine old original painting by Bergham, cattle piece, peasants, &c.; an old building in the distance. Its subject is rustic and familiar life. The treatment is chaste and mellow. The depth of the foreground is really surprising, and appears to be produced without an effort ; the background is transparent and aerial; the middle distance sober and clear; the atmosphere and vapors pellucid and tremulous; the quiet and docile animals, the groups of peasantry, and the strongholds of power are equal to any other great effort of the celebrated Bergham. Many specimens of petrified wood. Notice several beautiful specimens of marble, which it would be difficult to distinguish from a fine landscape painting. Glass model of the great Russian diamond, valued at about 600,000 pounds sterling.”
In an “Account of the Smithsonian Institution, &c.,” by Wm. J. Rhees, published in Washington in 1859, the following statement is made:
“In the room used by the ‘ Regents’ and the ‘ Establishment’ as a hall for their meetings, are now deposited the personal effects of James Smithson. Here may be seen his. trunks, umbrella, walking-cane, sword, plume, riding-whip; a set of silver-plate; a miniature chemical laboratory, which he used when travelling; thermometers, snuff-box, scales, candlesticks, &c. Hanging in this room is an original painting by Bergham, a rural scene, the property of Smithson, a marble head of St. Cecilia, by Thorwalsden, &c.”
The will of Smithson was prepared by him on the 25d October, 1826, while residing in Bentinck street, Cavendish Square, London, three years before his death, showing that it was made with deliberation and confirmed by mature reflection. Its provisions are in some respects so remarkable that they have been attributed to a mere whim or eccentricity of character; but knowledge of the man as a scientific investigator, accustomed to the use of precise language, fond of the most minute details, and yet of broad and comprehensive views, precludes this inference. An interesting circumstance has come to light from a recent careful examination of the books in Smithson’s library. A volume has been found entitled “ Plain advice to the public, to facilitate the making of their own wills, with forms of wills, simple and elaborate, containing almost every description of bequest, especially the various modes of settling property for the sole use and benefit of married women for their lives, with powers of appointment to them by deed or will; tables of the stamp duties on probates and letters of administration; special rules

<<<Page: 165>>>

and tables regarding the wills and letters of administration of petty officers, seamen, and marines, and a chapter of useful hints to persons about to make their own wills; the whole illustrated with explanatory notes and remarks, being an intelligible and complete, though summary, explanation of the law of wills and testaments.” By the author of ‘Plain instructions to executors and administrators.’” London, 1826, Svo., 94 pages.
It is noticeable that this book was published in the same year in which Smithson made his will, and that it was carefully studied is evident from his marginal notes, and the fact that he adopted its phraseology in providing an annuity to his faithful servant. His words were not only chosen to accord with the forms of law, but with strict regard to the meaning and scope of the language used. ‘The will, moreover, is in the testator’s own handwriting.
It is an interesting subject of speculation to consider the motives which actuated Smithson in bequeathing his fortune to the United States of America to found an institution in the city of Washington.
He is not known to have had a single correspondent in America, and in none of his papers is found any reference to it or to its distinguished men.* It has been alleged that he was more friendly to monarchical than to republican institutions, but there appears to be no foundation for this opinion. It is more probable that, living at a time when all Europe was convulsed with war, when the energies of nations, the thoughts of rulers, and the lives of millions were devoted to efforts for conquest or to perpetuate despotism, he turned to the free American tepublic, where he could discern the germs of rising grandeur, the elements of enduring prosperity, and the aspirations of coming generations. He undoubtedly felt that in the United States there would be wider scope for the promotion of knowledge, and that in this new country there would always be free thought and indefinite progress. By selecting the nation itself as the depository of his trust he paid the highest compliment to its intelligence and integrity, and testified his confidence in republican institutions and his faith in their perpetuity.
The period in which Smithson lived was not less marked by the gloom occasioned by long-protracted and almost universal war, and the extent and rapidity of its social changes, than by the luster of its brilliant discoveries in science and its useful inventions in the arts. The leaders of contending nations, who had long absorbed the attention of Europe by their struggles for dominion, were at last forced to relinquish some of their honors to the great philosophers whose achievements then illuminated the page of history, and which have not since been surpassed. It was pre-eminently a period of activity of thought,
*There are only two books in Smithson’s library containing references to the United — States. Extracts from these relative to the city of Washington are given in the Ap-— pendix, Note 9.

<<<Page: 166>>>

of fertility of invention and of original research. Pure abstract science had many illustrious votaries, and the practical application of its traths gave to the world many of the great inventions by means of which civilization has made such immense and rapid progress.
Not only were individual efiorts for the welfare of humanity made, but a spirit of association was developed and numevous organizations formed, having for their object the promotion of science, education, and philanthropy. The few existing societies also became inspired with new life and vigor. The ‘Royal Society of London” entered upon its most brilliant epoch and became the fountain and center of intellectual progress. “The Royal Institution of Great Britain,” chiefly indebted for its origin to an American, was founded in 1800, “for diffusing the knowledge and facilitating the general introduction of useful mechanical inventions and improvements and for teaching by courses of philosophical lectures and experiments the application of science to the common purposes of life.” A glance at the names of a few of the great organizations instituted in different parts of the world at the close of the last and beginning of the present century will show the remarkable scientific activity of that pericd and the direction of thought towards the establishment of permanent institutions :
1782. Royal Irish Academy. 1812. Royal Academy of Sciences
1784. Royal Asiatic Society. of Berlin (reorganized).
1788. Linnean Society. 1816. The French Academy of Sci-
1788. Société Philomatique. ences (reorganized).
1795. Société Philotechnique. 1818. Academy of Natural Sciences,
1799. Academy of Sciences, Lisbon. Philadelphia.
1800. Royal Institution of Great 1819. Philosophical Society, CamBritain. bridge.
1805. Société Anthropologique, 1820. Royal Astronomical Society. Paris. 1821. Société Imperiale de Géogra-
1807. Geclogical Society of London. phie, Paris.
1808. Royal Institute of the Low 1822. Société Asiatique, Paris. Countries. 1825. Société Royale des Antiquai-
1812. Literary and Philosophical res du Nord, Copenhagen. Society, Liverpool. 1826. Zodlogival Society, London.
The remarkable advances made in science at this epoch were thus alluded to by Arago in his eulogy cn Thomas Young:
“In a short space of time the Academy has lost from the list of its members, Herschel, whose bold ideas on the structure of the universe have acquired every year more of probability; Piazzi, who, on the first day of the present century, presented our solar system with a new planet; Watt, who, if not the inventor of the steam-engine, was at least the creator of so many admirable contrivances by the aid of which the little instrument of Papin has become the most ingenious, the most useful, the most powerful means of applying industry ; Volta, who has been immor-
S. Mis. 54 11

<<<Page: 167>>>

talized by his electric pile; Davy, equally celebrated for the decomposition of the alkalies, and for the invaluable safety-lamp of the miner; Wollaston, whom the English called “the Pope,” because he never proved fallible in any of his numerous experiments or of his subtle theoretical speculations ; Jenner, lastly, whose discovery I have no need to extol in the presence of pier of families.”
Cuvier also made the following imposing Peimeeaeee of the scientific achievements of this era in his eulogy on Haiiy:
“The laws of a geometry, as concise as comprehensive, extended over the entire heavens; the boundaries of the universe enlarged and its spaces peopled with unknown stars; the courses of celestial bodies determined more rigorously than ever, both in time and space; the earth weighed as in a balance; man soaring to the clouds or traversing the seas without the aid of winds; the intricate mysteries of chemistry referred to certain clear and Sale facts; the list of natural existences increased tenfold in every species, and lew relations irrevocably fixed by a survey as well of their interna as external structure; the history of the earth, even in ages the most remote, explored by means of its own si eT and shown to be not less wonderful in fact than it might have appeared to the wildest faney: such is the grand and unparalleled spectacle which it has been our privilege to contemplate.”
While scientific thought and discovery were thus being advanced, attention was directed to the great ignorance of the masses. The idea of universal diffusion of knowledge had been unknown in England, and many of the upper classes of society cherished and avowed a deeply rooted dislike to the education of the poor, as “tending to discontent and an overthrow of that orderly subordination without which society vannot exist.” The principle was held by many, and considered indisputable, that “the ignorance of the people was necessary to their obedience to law.” *
The period, however, was one in which revolution was commencing in all directions. Many of the old landmarks of thought, opinion, and fact were in process of removal and new ones were rapidly becoming established. The progress and results of mechanical invention were producing great social changes. Lord Broughaim’s “ Treatise on Popular Education,” first published in January, 1825, had reached its twentieth edition in the following year. His vigorous, eloquent, and practical appeals to his countrymen were exciting universal attention, and through his efforts the first of the useful and popular Mechanics’ Institutes was established, the University of London was founded, and book clubs, reading societies, and scientific lectures were organized.
At the opening of the session of Parliament in 1828, he proclaimed that it was unconstitutional that almost the whole patronage of the State should be placed in the hands of a military premier. The coneluding passage of his speech ran through the country, and dwelt for-
* Lord Cockburn.

<<<Page: 168>>>

ever in men’s minds in its axiomatic power. ‘There had been periods when the country heard with dismay that the soldier was abroad. That is not the case now. Let the soldier be ever so much abroad, in the present age he could do nothing. There is another person abroad—a less important person, in the eyes of some an insignificant person, whose labours have tended to produce this state of things—the schoolmaster is abroad.”*
Lord Brougham had declared that “to instruct the people in the rudiments of philosophy would of itself be an object sufficiently brilliant to allure the noblest ambition. To promote these ends and to obtain for the great body of his fellow-creatures that high improvement which both their understanding and their morals fitted them to receive,” he urged upon the consideration of the men of wealth of Britain. ‘Such a one, however averse by taste or habit to the turmoil of publi¢ affairs, or the more ordinary strifes of the world, may in all quiet and innocence enjoy the noblest gratification of which the most aspiring nature is susceptible; he may influence by his single exertions the cha: acter and the fortunes of a whole generation, and thus wield a power to be envied even by vulgar ainbition, for the extent of its dominion; to be cherished by virtue itself, for the unalloyed blessings it bestows.” He pressed the subject on the attention “of all men of enlightened views, who value the real improvement of their fellow-creatures and the best interests of their country.” He appealed to public-spirited individuals to promote the diffusion of knowledge and the cultivation of intellectual pursuits by devoting some of their means to these objects, and showed how much money had been misapplied by benevolent persons in sustaining certain charitable institutions which only tended to increase the number of the poor and dependent classes.
The ‘“ Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge” was established in April, 1825, and at onee entered upon a career alike brilliant and successful. ‘Its publications,” says the Edinburgh Review, ¢ “ undoubtedly form by far the most important of the contributions from men of science and letters to the instruction and improvement of mankind.” “Its efforts were to be extended until knowledge had become as plentiful and as universally diffused as the air we breathe.”
It cannot be doubted that Mr. Smithson became impressed with the prevailing and new spirit of his age, and, recognizing as a man of science the inestimable value of knowledge and the importance of its universal diffusion, wrote the words of his will bequeathing his whole fortune ‘for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
. <Atone period of his life, and when an active member of the Royal Society, he purposed leaving his fortune to that body for the promotion
* Chas. Knight’s Passages of a Working Life. London, Vol 2, p. 66. t Edinburgh Review, Vol. xlvi, 1827, p. 243.

<<<Page: 169>>>

of science,* but it is said that a disagreement with the council of the society on account of the non-acceptance of one of his papers probably led him to abandon the idea. This circumstance is of importance as indicating the bent of his mind and the mode in which he proposed to benefit mankind. The difficulty referred to, however, undoubtedly led him to vive broader scope to his plan, and to choose a trustee for his endowment who would be hampered by no conventional or traditional restrietions, and who would understand and carry out his purposes in the most liberal and practical manner.t
It is peculiarly gratifying to Americans to remember that the jirst award made by the Council of the Royal Society of the Copley medal, the most honorable within its gift, was to our own countryman, Benjamin Franklin, who was adjudged to be the author of the most important scientific discovery. On this occasion the president of the society stated that the council, ‘keeping steadily in view the advancement of science and useful knowledge, and the honor of the society, had never thought of confining the benefaction within the narrow limits of any particular country, much less of the society itself.”
As this was the spirit of the leading scientific organization in existence, of which Smithson himself was an active and honored member, he well exemplified its liberal principles by transferring his foundation of a great establishment for the ‘‘increase and diffusion of knowledge among men” from London to the city of Washington.
Smithson received a large estate from his half brother, Colonel Henry Louis Dickinson, in trust for the benefit of the son of this brother as well as of his mother. To this nephew, to whom he was probably attached, or because he had derived a large part of his fortune from his father, he left his whole fortune. Contingent on the death of this young man, he made the remarkable provision of an establishment in the United States which has secured for him the distinction of being a benefactor of mankind.
*The charter states that the Royal Society was founded for the improvement of natural knowledge. This epithet natural, Dr. Paris remarks, “was intended to imply a meaning of which very few persons are aware. At the period of the establishment of the society the arts of witchcraft and divinations were very extensively encouraged, and the word natural was therefore introduced in contradistinction to supernatural.” Hooke, the president, declared, in 1663, that ‘‘the business and design of the Royal Society was to improve the knowledge of natural things, and all useful arts, manufactures, mechanick practises, engynes and inventions by experiments—(not meddling with divinity, metaphysics, moralls, politicks, grammar, rhetorick, or logick. )”
Dr. Wollaston had made a gift of £1,000 to the Royal Society, the interest of which was to be annually applied towards the encouragement of experiments.
t‘*Our countrymen do not believe that America is more advanced in knowledge and refinement than Europe; but they know that, with slight divergencies, both hemispheres are in this respect nearly abreast of each other. And they know that, both being yet far from the goal, their generous transatlantic rivals start unencumbered by many old prejudices and social trammels which we cannot here escape from.”—(Tait’s Edinburgh Magazine, 1832, p. 234.)

<<<Page: 170>>>

It has been shown with what zeal and pleasure Smithson himself engaged in the advancement of knowledge, and what general interest had been awakened in England in the cause of scientific organization and popular education at the very time he wrote his will, and it is not unreasonable, therefore, to believe that he contemplated this contingency as a very probable event.
The will of Smithson, dated October 23, 1826, was proved in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury by his executor, Mr. Charles Drummond, a London banker, on the 4th of November, 1829. The value of the effects was sworn to be under £120,000.*
In 1878, a copy of a will also in Smithson’s handwriting was procured by the Institution from Mr. de la Batut, almost identical with the one recorded in the courts of London.
It appears from this that the word heretofore printed Audley in copies of the will should be “Studley,” and that the name of the former servant who kept the Hungerford Hotel at Paris should be Sailly, and not Jailly. In the record of the will at London, the word Smithsonian as the name of the Institution to be established is ‘‘ Smithsonean,” but as it is very plainly written ‘‘ian” in what we must consider his original draft, the misspelling referred to is undoubtedly due to an error of the transcriber. In all the proceedings in the court of chancery, and all the negotiations of Mr. Rush, the name ‘Smithsonian ” has uniformly been used.
The first article of the will refers to an old and trusted servant, John Fitall, to whom, in consideration of his attachment and fidelity, Smithson bequeaths an annuity of a hundred pounds sterling. This Fitall died in June, 1834, having enjoyed the benefit of his legacy for five years.
Mr. Smithson next directs that various sums of money he had lent to another of his servants, Henri Honori Sailly, should be allowed to remain uncalled for at five per cent. interest for five years.
He then mentions the fact that all the money in the French five per cents. (livres de rentes) then standing in his own name and in that of Colonel Dickinson was the property of his nephew, being what he inherited from the colonel, who died on the 22d May, 1820, with what he had added himself to it from savings made out of the income. To this nephew, Henry James Hungerford, who was also known as Henry James Dickinson, and still later as Baron Eunice de la Batut, he leaves the rest of the income arising from his property during his life. The whole of his fortune is by the next clause of the will left absolutely and forever to any child or children, legitimate or illegitimate, of the said nepnew Hungerford. But in case of the death of his nephew without leaving a child or children, or of the death of the child or children he may have had under the age of twenty-one years or intestate, he then Says: d
* Gentleman's Magazine, 1830, vol. c., p. 275. J ) ) »~P

<<<Page: 171>>>

“T bequeath the whole of my property to the United States of America, to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
The nephew, Mr. Hungerford (alias H. J. Dickinson), to whom was bequeathed a life interest in Smithson’s estate, brought an amicable suit in chancery against the executors for the purpose of having the assets administered under the direction of the lord chancellor, and these were ascertained to be about £100,000 sterling. The income from this property, which consisted mainly of stock in the public funds of England, was promptly paid to young Hungertord, who led a roving life in Europe, without settled habits or occupation, and died under the name of Baron
Junice de la Batut, at the Royal Hotel in Pisa, Italy, on the 5th of June, 1835, under thirty years of age, never having married, and leaving no heirs who could, even under the broad provisions of his uncle’s will, make a claim to his bounty.
The mother of Hungerford, a Mrs. Mary Ann Coates, had married a Frenchman named Theodore de la Batut, and was still living at Port Louis in France. She now made a claim for part of the estate, on the ground that her son had given her an ample allowance while he lived, and that under the will of his father, Col. Henry Louis Dickinson, made in Paris in July 1819, by which he left all his property to wis brother, James Smithson, half the income was to be for her benefit during her life. It was shown that young Hungerford lived up to his income, and had left nothing even to pay debts or funeral expenses. It was also urged that if Smithson’s will had come into operation then, instead of seven years before, Hungerford would, in consequence of an alteration of the jaw, have been entitled to a portion of the accruing half-year’s income up to his death; and that, in consequence of the change in the law, hecould not be said to have enjoyed the income of the property during his whole life. It was also urged as a “moral claim,” that as the Smithson bequest was to be applied “to increase and diffuse knowledge among men,” the children of Mrs. de la Batut were entitled to an allowance from it until the age of twenty-two for their education.
The claim made was for an annuity of £240; but after long negotiation the decree was made by the court of chancery to allow Mrs. de la Batut £1590 9s. during her life, with a payment of £526 11s. 6d. for arrears from the 22d September, 1834, to the 22d March, 1838. To secure this annuity, the sum of £5,015 in three per cent. consols was retained in trust by the court, the interest to be paid on the 22d September and 22d March annually. By the law of France, the life income is apportionable and payable up to the time of death ; and Colonel Dickinson having been domiciled in France, this rule applied in his case.
Mrs. de la Batut lived to the year 1861, and the amount retained in England as the principal of the annuity was paid over to the Institution on the 11th June, 1864. This is known as the “ residuary legacy”

<<<Page: 172>>>

of Smithson, and the sum realized from it by the Institution, by the premium on gold, &¢., was $54,165.38.
The first announcement made to the American Government of the fact that the United States had become entitled to the bequest of Smithson
was a dispatch, dated 28th July, 1835, from Hon. Aaron Vail, chargé Waffaires of the United States at London, to Hon John Forsyth, Secretary of State, transmitting a letter from Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore and Fladgate, attorneys in that city. This communicated the intelligence that the nephew of Smithson had died, and that the United States was entitled to the estate, valued at £100,000.
These facts were laid before Congress by President Jackson on the 17th December, 1835, who stated in his message that he had no authority to take any steps toward accepting the trust.
In the Senate of the United States the message of the President was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, which, by its chairman, Mr. Benj. Watkins Leigh, of Virginia, reported, on the 5th of January, 1836, that they considered the bequest of Mr. Smithson a valid one, and they believed “that the United States would be entertained in the court of chancery of England to assert their claim to the fund as trustees for the purpose of founding the charitable institution at Washington to which it is destined by the donor.” The question whether it was within the competency of the Government to appropriate any part of the general revenue from the nation at large to the foundation of a literary or any other institution in the District of Columbia was answered by Mr. Leigh by stating that—
‘The fund given by Mr. Smithsow’s will is nowise, and never can become, part of the revenue of the United States; they cannot claim or take it for their own benefit; they can only take it as trustee.”
“The United States were to be regarded as the parens patrie of the District of Columbia, and in that character they had a right and were in duty bound to assert a claim to any property given to them for the purpose of founding an institution within the District, and to provide for the due application and administration of such a fund when they obtained possession of it.”
Resolutions were reported by the committee providing for the prosecution of the claim. The report was considered in the Senate on the 30th April, 1836, and it was urged by Mr. W. C. Preston, of South Carolina, that the Government of the United States had no power to receive the money. He thought the donation had been made partly with a view to immortalize the donor, and it was ‘‘teo cheap a way of conferring immortality.” He had no idea of the District of Columbia being used as a fulcrum to raise foreigners to immortality by getting Congress as the parens patric to accept donations from them. He expressed the opinion that Smithson’s intention was to found a university.
Mr. Leigh, in reply, maintained that the legacy was not for the benefit

<<<Page: 173>>>

of the United States, but only for one of the. cities of the District of Columbia, and with this belief he had no difficulty in voting for the bill.
Mr. John M. Clayton, of Delaware, also thought a university was intended by Smithson.
Mr. John C. Calhoun, of South Carolina, was of opinion that the donation was made expressly to the United States, and that “it was beneath their dignity to receive presents of this kind from any one.”
Mr. Samuel L. Southard, of New Jersey, advocated the measure, as he thought Congress had the unquestionable right to establish a national university.
Mr. James Buchanan, of Pennsylvania, believed that Congress had the power to receive and apply this money to the purposes intended by the testator, without involving the question whether it was for a university or not. L
Mr. Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, advocated the bill as a measure of justice to the city of Washington.
Mr. John Davis, of Massachusetts, argued that the Senators were mistaken who assumed that Smithson intended his bequest to establish a university. This word was not to be found in the will, and there were other means for diffusing knowledge besides the one referred to. He deemed the establishment of institutions for the promotion of knowledge a vital principle of republican government.
After a somewhat protracted debate the resolutions were finally passed on the 2d of May, 1836, by a vote of 31 to 7, and on. the 25th of June they were again passed in the shape of a bill as it had come from the House of Representatives.
The message of the President was referred in the House, on the 21st of December, 1835, to a special committee, consisting of Mr. John Quiney Adams, of Massachusetts, Mr. Francis Thomas, of Maryland, Mr. James Garland, of Virginia, Mr. D. J. Pearce, of Rhode Island, Mr. Jesse Speight, of North Carolina, Mr. Thomas M. T. McKennan, of Pennsylvania, Mr. BE. A. Hannegan, of Indiana, Mr. Rice Garland, of Louisiana, and Mr. G. H. Chapin, of New York. In this committee great opposition was manifested at first to the acceptance of the bequest, but this vielded to the arguments and persuasion of the distinguished chairman, Mr. John Q. Adams. <A bill was accordingly reported, directing the President to appoint an agent to assert and prosecute for and in behalf of the United States in the court of chancery, England, the legacy bequeathed by James Smithson. The agent was to give bonds in $500,000 for the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon him. The Treasurer of the United States was to take charge of and keep safely all the money received on account of the bequest, and “the faith of the United States was solemnly pledged that the fund should be applied for the purpose of founding and endowing at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffu

<<<Page: 174>>>

sion of knowledge among men.” Yor the cost of prosecuting the claim an appropriation of $10,000 was made.
On the 19th of January, 1836, Mr. Adams made an elaborate report, containing all the facts he had been able to collect relative to Sinithson, and expressing in the most glowing and refined language his appreciation of the value of the gift to America and its importance to mankind. Mr. Leigh had convinced the Senate that it was the duty of Congress to accept the bequest, and Mr. Adams brought before the House an account of the life of the testator, the nature of the trust, the character of the trustees, the practical influence of our political institutions upon Kurope, and the vast benefits to the world which might grow out of the legacy. The report was unanimously agreed to in the committee, but Mr. Adams had great misgivings whether anything would ever be realized from the bequest. The delays of the English court of chancery were well known, and the opinion had even been expressed that the whole affair was an imposture. Mr. Adams never wavered, however, in his faith in the power of the government to procure the money and its ability to administer it properly. He refers in his diary to it as the favorite and almost absorbing subject of his thoughts, and for many years he devoted untiring activity and personal efforts to its successful accomplishment.
No action was taken by the House on Mr. Adams’s report until the Senate had passed Mr. Leigh’s resolution; when that was taken up, changed in form to that of a bill, passed on the 25th of June, 1836, and was approved by the President on the Ist of July, 1836.
In accordance with this act the President appointed, on the 11th of July, Hon. Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania, as the agent to assert and prosecute the claim of the United States to the legacy. His salary was fixed at $3,000 per annum, and $2,600 were allowed for contingencies, not including legat expenses. Mr. Rush gave the necessary bond for $500,000, Messrs. J. Mason, jr., and Benjamin C. Howard being his sureties, who were accepted by Mr. Woodbury, Secretary of the Treasury. This appointment was one eminently fit to be made, and its wisdom was proved by the successful accomplishment of the mission. Mr. Rush had been Comptroller of the United States Treasury at a time when the fiscal affairs of the government were in disorder; he was next Attornéy-General; then minister to England for a period of eight years; Secretary of the Treasury; and minister to France. “ To these great and varied employments,” Hon. J. A. Pearce has remarked, “he brought integrity, ability, intelligence, firmness, courtesy, and a directness of purpose which scorned all finesse and which served his country to the full extent of all that could have been demanded or hoped.”
Mr. Kush immediately proceeded to London, placed himself in communication with the attorneys of the executor of Smithson, and entered with vigor into the measures necessary to assert the claim of the United

<<<Page: 175>>>

States. It was soon ascertained, on consultation with eminent counsel, Messrs. Thomas Pemberton and Edward Jacob, then at the head of the chancery bar, that it was necessary that a suit should be brought in the name of the President of the United States against the testatov’s executors, and that the Attorney-General must be made a party to the proceedings in order that he might represent before the court any claim which the Crown might have to the bequest on account of its extension to illegitimate children, or by reason of any part of the property consisting of interests inland. Mr. Rush, in addition to Messrs. Pemberton and Jacob, employed Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, and Fladgate as his legal advisers, and a suit was commenced in the court of chancery in November, 1836. The first hearing, however, did not take place until the 1st of February, 1837, before Lord Langdale, master of the rolls, this court and that of the vice-chancellor being the two branches of the English chancery system before which suits are brought in the first instance.
The case was fully opened on behalf of the United States by Mr. Pemberton. The King’s counsel abandoned at once ail opposition on the part of the Crown, and no question was raised under the doctrine of escheats or any other by the representatives of the British Government. The court then decreed that the case be referred to one of the mastersIn chancery, Mr. Nassau William, Sen., tomake the requisite inquiries as to the facts on the happening of which the United States became entitled to the fund left by Mr. Smithson, and also as to the claim of Madame De la Batut.
The United States had never before sued in an English court, but there were precedents of other nations having done so by their executive heads, as, for example, the King of France and the King of Denmark. The United States were therefore allowed to enter the courts in the name of the President. '
Advertisements were immediately inserted in the London Times, Herald, and Standard, and in French and Italian newspapers in Paris and Port Louis, in France, and Leghorn, in Italy, asking for information respecting Henry James Hungerford; whether he married, whether he left any child, &e.
Mr. Rush, in August, 1837, wrote to the Secretary of State that there were more than eight hundred eases in arrears in the court of chancery, and he felt much discouraged as to a speedy termination of the suit. While the population of England had increased in a definite period sixfold and her wealth twentyfold, the judicial establishment had remained nearly the same. There were only eleven masters in chancery, while double the number would not be sufficient. The subject of a reform in this court, Mr, Rush stated, had been specially recommended by the Throne to Parliament. It had been said, with truth, that ‘‘a chancery suit was a thing that might begin with a man’s life and its termination

<<<Page: 176>>>

be his epitaph.” Still later it will be remembered that Mr. Dickens stated in 13853 that there was then “a suit before the court of chancery which had been commenced twenty years before in which from thirty to Yorty counsel had been known to appear at one time, in which costs had been incurred to the amount of £70,000, which was a friendly suit, and which was no nearer its termination than when it was begun.”
Mr. Rush refers in terms of high compliment to the solicitors he had employed on behalf of the United States. He says:
“That more attention, diligence, discretion, and integrity could not have been exerted by any persons than they have shown throughout the whole suit from first to last. Could they ever have forgotten what was due to the United States and to themselves, in the desire to eke out a job, nothing is plainer to me, from what has been passing under my observation of the entanglements and delays natural to a heavy suit in the English court of chancery, than that they might have found opportunities in abundance of making the suit last for years yet to come.”
It is therefore to be regarded as one of the most remarkable events in the history of the bequest that the suit of the United States, commenced in November, 1836, should have been brought to a successful issue, in less than two years, on the 12th of May, 1538, which, it may be interesting to note, was the first year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria.
Mr. Rush was therefore placed in possession of the legacy with the exception of the part reserved as the principal of an annuity to Madame De la Batut. Mr. Rush thus expresses his satisfaction at the result:
“A suit of higher interest and dignity has rarely perhaps been before the tribunals of a nation. If the trust created by the testator’s will be successfully carried into effect by the enlightened legislation of Congress benefits may flow to the United States and to the human family not easy to be estimated, because operating silently and radually throughout time, yet operating not the less effectually.”
Searcely had the decision of the court been made and the amount of the award published in the newspapers, when two claimants for the estate of Smithson appeared, neither having any connection with the other; and they desired, rather importunately, to know if the case could not be reopened. They were much chagrined to find that they were a little too late in their application, and nothing more was heard of them.
The American minister to England, My. Stevenson, and our consul at London, Mr. Aspinwall, united in testifying to the great tact and ability of Mr. Rush, and in affirming—
“That no litigant ever displayed a more ardent zeal or a more sagacious, devoted, and unremitting diligence in the prosecution of his pri-’ vate suit than he did in urging on this public one to a prompt and suecessful conclusion. The dispatch with which in consequence this purpose was finally accomplished is almost without example in the annals of chancery. His solicitors will long remember his adroit and unsparing

<<<Page: 177>>>

application of the spur. Had he not urged them to the top of their speed, he would have had a lighter weight of gold to earry home with him.”
The estate of Smithson which was transferred to Mr. Richard Rush consisted of the following securities:
£64,535 18s. 9d. in consolidated three per cent. annuities, called consols, sold at an average of 953 per cent., yielded £56,175.
£12,000 in reduced three per cent. annuities, sold at 94 per cent., yielded £11,280.
£16,100 in Bank of England stock, sold at about 205 per cent., yielding £32,996 10s.
xood-fortune again attended Mr. Rush, for the day when he sold the consols their value was higher than at any previous time for any years or than at any later period. The bank stock also commanded the remarkably high premium of about 205 per cent.
The estate, therefore, independent of the accumulations of interest and notwithstanding the delays in the court of chancery, was worth more than in the summer of 1835, when the right of the United States first attached to it by the death of Henry James Hungerford, and the entire amount of sales yielded an aggregate of more than one hundred and six thousand pounds sterling.
Mr. Rush’s next.concern was how to transfer these funds to the United States, and he decided to convert the whole into gold coin and send it in this form. This was not only the most judicious course, but it secured an increase of the fund to upwards of a thousand pounds sterling on account of saving the cost of exchange. This sum was enough to cover commissions, insurance, freight, and other charges on the transfer of the gold.
The costs of the suit and expenses connected with the shipment of the proceeds of the bequest were as follows:
Costs of the chancery suit, £490 4s. 10d.; selling the stock, commission to Thomas Aspinwall, £797 15s. 6d.; charges for shipping, £6 19s. 44.; premium of insurance, £605 3s. 10d.; brokerage, stamps, &e., £120 4s. 6d. ; freight from London to New York, £393 12s.; primage, £19 13s. 8d.
The proceeds of the sales of the stocks, &c., were converted into gold sovereigns, and these were packed at the Bank of England in bags containing £1,000 each and shipped in eleven boxes by the packet Mediator, of New York, on the 17th July, 1838. Three other boxes sent at the same time contained the personal effects of Smithson.
The ship Mediator arrived in New York on the 29th of August, 1838, and the gold, amounting to £104,960 8s. 6d., was deposited in the Bank of America until the 1st of September, when it was delivered to the Treasurer of the United States Mint in Philadelphia, and immediately recoined into American money, producing $508,318.46 as the bequest of Smithson.

<<<Page: 178>>>

On the 6th of December, 1838, President Van Buren had the satisfaction of announcing to Congress that the claim of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by James Smithson had been fully established, and that the fund had been received by the government. He now urged the prompt adoption of a plan by which the intentions of the testator might be fully realized. For the purpose of obtaining information which might facilitate the attainment of this object, he applied, through the Secretary of State, to a number of persons “ versed in science and familiar with the subject of public education, for their views as to the mode of disposing of the fund best calculated to meet the intentions of Smithson, and be most beneficial to mankind.”
He communicated to Congress the replies received, of which the following is a brief abstract.
President Francis Wayland, of Brown University, proposed a university of high grade to teach Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Oriental languages, and a long list of other branches, including rhetoric, poetry, intellectual philosophy, the law of nations, &e.
Dr. Thomas Cooper, of South Carolina, also proposed a university, to be opened only to graduates of other colleges, where the higher branches of mathematics, astronomy, chemistry, We., should be taught, but Latin and Greek, literature, medicine, and law excluded.
Mr. Richard Rush proposed a building, with grounds attached, sufficient to reproduce seeds and plants for distribution ; a press to print lectures, &c.; courses of lectures on the leading branches of physical and moral science, and on government and public law; the salaries to be ample enough to command the best men, and admit of the exclusive devotion of their time to the studies and investigations of their posts ; the lectures, when delivered, to be the property of the institution for publication. Mr. Rush also made the excellent suggestion that consuls and other United States officers might greatly aid the institution by collecting and sending home useful information and valuable specimens from abroad.
Hon. John Quiney Adams expressed, in his reply, the opinion that no part of the fund should be devoted “to the endowment of any school, college, university, or ecclesiastical establishment”; and he proposed to employ seven years’ income of the fund in the establishment of an astronomical observatory, with instruments and a small library.
The subject of the Smithson bequest was referred in the House of Representatives on the 10th December, 1838, to a special committee of

<<<Page: 179>>>

nine members, of which Hon. John Quincy Adams was chairman. Besides the letters transmitted to Congress by President Van Buren, other plans were brought before the committee.
A memorial from Prof. Walter R. Johnson suggested the establishment of an institution for experiment and research in physical science especially pertaining to the useful arts, and the discovery, description, application, and improvement of the natural resources of our country. Another scheme was presented by Mr. Charles L. Fleischtian for the establishment of an agricultural school and farm, and he entered into the most minute detail as to the buildings and estimates for all the parts of the plan. There were also propositions to use the fund “for the instruction of females,” for the establishment of ‘ professorships,” for ‘courses of lectures,” for “improved methods of rearing sheep, horses, and silkworms,” for founding a great library, &e.
Mr. Adams very earnestly opposed the appropriation of any part of the fund to educational purposes, believing that it was the duty of the country itself to provide the means for this important object. His own favorite scheme was the establishment of an astronomical observatory, and this he advocated in the most ardent, able, and persistent manner.
The chairman of the Senate committee, Hon. Asher Robbins, of Rhode Island, proposed the creation of “an institution of which there is no model either in this country or in Europe, to provide such a course of education and discipline as would give to the faculties of the human mind an improvement far beyond what they obtain by the ordinary systems of education and far beyond what they afterwards attain in any of the professional pursuits.” His speech in the Senate on the 10th of January, 1839, in presenting his views on this subject is remarkable for its beauty of diction, elevation of sentiment, and classical erudition.
Mr. Robbins’s resolutions provided for a scientific and literary institution, and stated that to apply the fund to the erection and support of an observatory ‘‘ would not be to fulfil bona fide the intention of the testator, nor would it comport with the dignity of the United States to owe such an establishment to foreign eleemosynary means.”
The plan of Mr. Robbins was not received with sufficient favor in the Senate to secure its passage, and it was laid on the table by a vote of 20 to 15, on the 25th of February, 1839. Among those who favored the bill were Senators Clay, Davis, Prentiss, Preston, Rives, and Walker, and among those opposed to it were Senators Allen, Bayard, Benton, and Caihoun.
Mr. Adams remarks in his diary, October 26, 1839, that his mind was “filled with anxiety and apprehension lest the fund should be squandered upon cormorants or wasted in electioneering bribery.” He adds:
“Tt is hard to toil through life for a great purpose with a conviction that it will bein vain, but possibly seed now sown may bring forth some good fruit hereafter. If I cannot prevent the disgrace of the country by the failure of the testator’s intention, I can leave a record of what I

<<<Page: 180>>>

have done and what I would have done to accomplish the great design if executed well.”
At the beginning of the Twenty-sixth Congress, December, 1839, Mr. Adams again brought up the subject of the Smithson bequest and had it referred to a committee of nine, consisting of Messrs. Adams, Ogle, Shepard, Garland of Virginia, Lewis, Albert Smith, Barnard, Corwin, and Campbell of South Carolina.
A memorial was presented to Congress from the Corporation of the city of Washington, expressing great anxiety ‘“‘to see the instructions of Smithson carried into effect, believing it impossible to calculate the good which an institution properly founded is susceptible of promoting in the improvement of the intellect, taste, and morals of the country.” It was deemed presumptuous, however, to express an opinion as to what should be the character of the institution.
Mr. Hassler, then in charge of the Coast Survey, urged on Mr. Adams the establishment of an astronomical school.
On the 5th of March, 1840, Mr. Adams presented an elaborate and extended report to the House of Representatives, reviewing all that had been done relative to the bequest, and presenting the establishment of an astronomical observatory as the best means of carrying out the purposes of Smithson. He gave in detail the arguments in favor of this plan, with estimates for carrying it into effect, and an interesting letter from Mr. Airy, the Astronomer Royal of England, relative to the origin, history, uses, and expenses of the famous Greenwich Observatory. Mr. Adams also gave a masterly summary of the progress of astronomical discovery, painted in the most brilliant colors the achievements of men of science, and portrayed in glowing language the future glory and renown of our country to be derived from the application of the Smithson fund in the manner he proposed.
The impropriety of devoting any portion of the fund to establish a school or college was strongly urged, and he said, “We should in no case avail ourselves of a stranger’s munificence to rear our children.” It is not clear how the learned and distinguished gentleman reconciled his apparent inconsistency in advocating the use of the fund for the establishment of ‘a national observatory to be superior to any other devoted to the same science in any part of the world,” and which would “make an impression upon the reputation of the United States throughout the learned and scientific world.” The desire of increasing the brightness of our name in the eyes of other nations, and of effacing a stain he detected upon the national escutcheon on account of our lack of an observatory, rendered him insensible or indifferent to the merits of any other plan for the increase and diffusion of knowledge. He seems to have been wedded to his favorite scheme, and his whole course in Congress in relation to the bequest was governed by it. After provision had been made for astronomical observations by the general government he still advocated no other plan, and even went so far as to

<<<Page: 181>>>

declare that he would rather see the money of Smithson thrown into the Potomae than to have it devoted to the advance of education.
It appears that, without debate or explanation, a section was added to the regular appropriation bill, passed 7th July, 1838, for the support of the United States Military Academy at West Point, by which it was enacted that all the money arising from the bequest of Smithson should be invested, when received, by the Secretary of the Treasury, with the approbation of the President of the United States, in stocks of States bearing not less than five per cent. interest, and that the annual income accruing on the stock should also be reinvested in the same way for the increase of the fund.
In accordance with this law, Mr. Levi Woodbury, Secretary of the Treasury, inserted an advertisement in the Washington Globe of August 6, 1538, asking for proposals from those having State stocks to dispose of. A large number of offers were received. Five per cents. of Indiana were offered at par, 98, and 99; of Louisiana, at 98; New York, 102; Maine, 983 and par; Massachusetts, 104; Kentucky, par; of five and a quarter per cents., Tennessee, at 995; of five and a half per cents., Missouri, at 102 and par; and of six per cents., Michigan, at par; Virginia, par; Llinois, 104, and Arkansas, 99. Mr. Woodbury accepted the otter of Mr. W. W. Corcoran, of the Arkansas bonds, and purchased $500,000 of them for the sum of $499,500. Subsequentiy he procured $38,000 more bonds of Arkansas, $8,000 Michigan, $56,000 Illinois, and $18,000 Ohio bonds.
The two bills of Mr. Robbins and Mr. Adams, representing the university and the observatory plans, were reported together to Congress. The former Was laid on the table, but the latter not acted on, on account of the pressure of other business at the close of the session.
In 1841, Mr. Lewis IF’. Linn, of Missouri, introduced a bill in the Senate to appoint trustees for the investment of the Smithson fund, and for the organization of an institution with a superintendent and six professors, to be nominated by the “ National Institute,” a society which had been formed in Washington for the promotion of science, and many of whose members were anxious to obtain control of the bequest. Mr. Linn proposed that all the collections of art and of natural history owned by the United States should be given to the Smithsonian Institution, but all the buildings, collections, &c., should be under the supervision of the National Institute. This bill was referred to the Library Committee, and a substitute was reported by Mr. Preston on the 17th February, 1841, providing for the incorporation of the National Institute, and the establishment of a Smithsonian Institution, with a superintendent and six professors, to be elected by the board of managers of the former, the officers of the institute and the superintendent of the Smithsonian Institution to constitute a board of management of the Smithson fund, to plan

<<<Page: 182>>>

JAMES SMITHSON AND HIS BEQUEST. Lei
and erect buildings, procure books, apparatus, collections, &c. It was provided that all works of art, and all books relating thereto, and all collections and curiosities belonging to the United States were to be transferred to the Smithsonian Institution. The ground known as the Mall Was appropriated for the buildings and use of the establishment. Nothing resulted however from this proposition.
Through the efforts of Mr. Adams, the act of 7th July, 1838, requiring the investment of the Smithson fund in State stocks, was repealed, and by an act of September 11, 1841, the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to invest the accruing interest thereafter only in United States stock.
President Tyler, in his message at the opening of the Twenty-seventh Congress, urged the propriety of making a specific application of the funds derived from the will of Smithson, and said he felt confident that “no abatement of the principal would be made should it turn out that the stocks in which the fund had been invested had undergone depreciation.”
The Senate referred the message to the Library Committee, Mr. Preston, chairman, and the House to a select committee of nine, of which Mr. Adams was again chairman. Mr. Preston soon after reported the bill he had offered at the previous session for combining the National Institute and the Smithsonian Institution, but this was laid upon the table on the 18th July, 1842. Mr. Adams presented a report and bill in the House on the 12th April, 1842, providing for the incorporation of the Smithsonian Institution; that all the money received from the bequest should be placed to the credit of a fund to be denominated the Smithsonian fund, to be preserved undiminished and unimpaired, and to bear interest at 6 per cent. per annum. The interest of this fund was to be appropriated for the erection and establishment of an astronomical observatory, the publication of the observations, and of a nautical almanac.
About this period memorials were presented to Congress in favor of appropriating the fund for the purpose of awarding annual prizes for the best original essays on the various subjects of the physical sciences, for the establishment of an agricultural school and farm, for organizing a system of simultaneous meteorological observations throughout the Union under the direction of Professor Espy, &e.
No definite action was had on any of these propositions, and President Tyler again called the attention of Congress in his message of December 5, 1843, to their neglect of an important duty. The subject was referred to the Joint Library Committee, of which Hon. Rufus Choate was chairman.
Mr. Tappan, from this committee, reported a bill on the 6th June, 1844, providing that the original amount received as the bequest of Smithson, $508,318.46, be considered as a permanent loan to the United States, at 6 per cent. interest, from the 3d December, 1838, when the same was received into the Treasury; that the interest which accrued to the Ist
S. Mis. 54-12

<<<Page: 183>>>

July, 1844, viz, $178,604, be appropriated to the erection of buildings and inclosure of grounds for the Smithsonian Institution ; that the business of the institution should be conducted by a board of twelve managers from different States or Territories ; that a plain and substantial building be erected, with rooms for a museum, library, chemical laboratory, lectures, arboretum; all the objects of natural history belonging to the United States to be transferred to said institution, exchanges of duplicate specimens to be made, a superintendent to be appointed to be professor also of agriculture and horticulture, additional professors of natural history, chemistry, astronomy, and such other branches as the wants of science may require, “excluding law, physic, or divinity,” experiments to be made to determine the utility of new fruits, plants, and vegetables, and finally students to be admitted to the institution gratuitously.
Mr. Adams in February, 1844, succeeded in having a select committee of nine appointed to consider the proper disposition of the fund, and in behalf of this committee made a third elaborate and comprehensive report, together with a bill providing for the appropriation of $800,000 as the Smithson fund, to be permanently invested in stock of the United States at 6 per cent. interest, and the income to be devoted, as he had before recommended, for an observatory and nautical almanac.
On the 12th December, 1844, Mr. Tappan introduced a bill in the Senate of a similar character to the one he had offered before, but in addition specified that the books to be purchased for a library should consist of works on science and the arts, especially such as relate to the ordinary business of life and to various mechanical and other improvements and discoveries. In prescribing the duties of professors and leeturers, special reference was to be had tothe productive and liberal arts, improvements in agriculture, horticulfure, and rural economy. Seeds and plants were to be distributed throughout the country, soils were to be analyzed ; the professor of natural history was to refer in his lectures to the history and habits of useful and injurious animals; the professor of geology was to give practical instruction in the exploration and working of mines; the professor of architecture was to give instruction as to the best materials and plans for building; the professor of astronomy was to give a course of lectures on navigation and the use of nautical instruments. It was also provided that works in popular form on the sciences and the aid they bring to labor should be published and distributed. .
In the discussion to which this bill gave rise in the Senate on the 8th of January, 1845, Mr. Choate made the brilliant speech which is referred to in the North American Review as “a splendid offering on the shrine of literature by one of her most gifted votaries, and one which, in future times, will render more memorable the day on which it was delivered than that gallant military achievement of which it is the anniversary. No prouder monument than this would be needed for his fame.” *
* North American Review, vol. 79, p. 459.

<<<Page: 184>>>

In this famous speech, Mr. Choate remarked that “ our sense of duty to the dead, the living, and the unborn who shall live; our justice, our patriotism, our policy, common honesty, common decorum, urge us, are enough to urge us, to go on without the delay of an hour, to appropriate the bounty according to the form of the gift.” He opposed anything like the school or college proposed by Mr. Tappan on the ground of its narrow utilitarianism, as being wholly unnecessary and in a great degree useless. It would injure the universities already in existence ; it would be exceedingly difficult to secure students; the expense of professors, books, apparatus, and buildings would secure a pretty energetic diffusing of the fund but not much diffusion of knowledge. He approved of the suggestion that lectures should be delivered, especially during the sessions of Congress, not by professors permanently fixed on annual salaries, but by gentlemen eminent in science and literature, to be invited to Washington under the stimulus and with the ambition of a special and conspicuous retainer. He preferred however that the one simple object of the Institution should be to accumulate a grand and noble public library, one which for variety, extent, and wealth should be equal to any in the world. He claimed that this scheme was the only one that “would prevent the waste of money in jobs, salaries, sinecures and quackeries, and would embody Smithson’s idea in some tangible form, some exponent of civilization, permanent, palpable, conspicuous, useful, and than which nothing was safer, surer, or more unexceptionable.”
Mr. Choate presented many interesting facts in regard to the public libraries of the world, and argued in his peculiarly forcible and eloquent manner that such a plan as he proposed was within the terms and spirit of the trust.
“That directs us to ‘increase and diffuse knowledge among men. And do not the judgments of all the wise; does not the experience of all enlightened states ; does not the whole history of civilization concur to declare that a various and ample library is one of the surest, most constant, most permanent and most economical instrumentalities to increase and diffuse knowledge? There it would be, durable as liberty, durable as the Union; a vast storehouse, a vast treasury of all the facts which make up the history of man and of nature, so far as that history has been written; of all the truths which the inquiries and experiences of all the races and ages have found out; of all the opinions that. have been promulgated; of all the emotions, images, sentiments, examples, of all the richest and most instructive literatures; the whole past speaking to the present and the future—a silent, yet wise and eloquent neacher, * * *
“Tf the terms of the trust then authorize this expenditure, why not make it?) Not among the principal, nor yet the least of reasons for doing so, is, that all the while that you are laying out your money, and when you have laid it out, you have the money’s worth, the value re-

<<<Page: 185>>>

ceived, the property purchased on hand to show for itself and to speak for itself. Suppose the professors provided for in the bill should gather a little circle of pupils, each of whom should carry off with him some small quotient of navigation, or horticulture, or rural economy, and the fund should thus glide away and evaporate in such insensible, inappreciable appropriations, how little there would be to testify of it!, Whereas here all the while are the books; here is the value; here is the visible property ; here is the oil and here is the light. There is something to point to, if you should be asked to account for it unexpectedly, and something to point to if a traveler should taunt you with the collections which he has seen abroad, and which gild and recommend the absolutisms of Vienna or St. Petersburgh. * * *
“But the decisive argument is, after all, that it is an application the most exactly adapted to the actual literary and scientific wants of the States and the country. I have said that another college is not needed here because there are enough now, and another might do harm as much as good. But that which is wanted for every college, for the whole country, for every studious person, is a well-chosen library, somewhere among us, of three or four hundred thousand books.”
Mr. Tappan, in reply, urged that Smithson’s own habits and pursuits should be considered ; that it must be remembered that he was an eminently practical philosopher, intimately acquainted with chemistry, mineralogy, geology, and natural history, to the minute study of which he devoted his life. His favorable resort had been the Jardin des Plantes, at Paris, and there could be but little doubt that in making his bequest. he had in view the establishment of a similar institution. He deprecated the outlay of a large amount in the purchase of books, and asserted that they not only did not promote knowledge, but that one-half of those then in the Library of Congress were to be considered as trash.
Mr. Levi Woodbury, of New Hampshire, favored the employment of lecturers, and the purchase of a moderate-sized library, but preferred that the management of the bequest should be intrusted to the National Institute, a society already in active operation, created by Congress, and the objects of which were appropriate to the trust.
Mr. John J. Crittenden, of Kentucky, thought the purchase of books should be confined to works on science and the arts. Mr. James A. Pearce, of Maryland, concurred in the views of Mr. Choate. Mr. Wm.
}. Rives, of Virginia, believed that by knowledge was not merely meant the natural sciences, astronomy, mathematics, &c.; he considered the most important of all the branches of human knowledge that which related to the moral and political relations of man. The field of moral science also embraced a much larger portion of knowledge than the physical sciences. He suggested the “ Faculty of letters and sciences” under the auspices of the University of France, as a much better model for the Smithsonian than the Jardin des Plantes. Te remarked that it was his “firm and solemn conviction that we now haye it in our power

<<<Page: 186>>>

to do more good to this nation in our day and generation, by a judicious and wise application of this $500,000 which has been put into our hands, than by the application of the twenty-five or thirty millions we are in the habit of annually appropriating.”
Mr. Choate’s amendments were adopted by the Senate and the bill recommitted to be more fully matured. It was again reported to the Senate on the 2d of January, including Mr. Choate’s plan of a great library. Mr. Woodbury endeavored again to place the Institution under the management of the National Institute, but was opposed by Senators Buchanan, Choate, and Tappan, on the ground that it was anti-republican and anti-democratic to surrender all control by the people’s representatives in respect to a trust committed to their custody for the people’s benefit, and to place it in the hands of a close body wholly irresponsible to either Congress or the people.
Mr. Woodbury replied with warmth that his plan, instead of being antagonistic to Congress, made it more in subordination to it, and placed stronger safeguards against any possible departure from its commands or wishes. He also believed that it would be placing a burden on the Institute rather than conferring a favor upon it.
Mr. Buchanan “could imagine no other mode of using the fund” to advantage, than “the purchase of a great library,” and strongly opposed any connection with the National Institute.
Mr. William Allen, of Ohio, expressed his opposition to “any plan whatever for connecting anything called an institution with the public treasury.” He had never known a single instance of a fund of money, charitable or otherwise, being intrusted to the care of an incorporated body of men “that was not squandered and made to fall short of the object of the donor.” He wished to see no institution established in the capital of the United States to teach the American people how to think, and read, and speak, and he therefore opposed the whole project.
Mr. Robert J. Walker, of Mississippi, defended the National Institute against the attacks made upon it; showed that it was worthy of and had received the greatest encouragement and most general favor, and claimed that an institution bearing the name of a foreigner never could concentrate in the same degree the affections and confidence of the American people.
After some further debate the bill was laid over for several days, but was taken up and passed on the 23d of January, 1845. When it reached the House, a substitute was offered for it by Mr. Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana; but in the hurry of a short session of Congress the whole matter was left undisposed of.
On the opening of the'Twenty-ninth Congress, Mr. Owen again offered his bill to establish the Smithsonian Institution, and it was referred to a select committee of seven members, viz, Messrs. Owen, of Indiana, John Q. Adams, of Massachusetts, Timothy Jenkins, of New

<<<Page: 187>>>

York, George P. Marsh, of Vermont, Alexander D. Sims, of South Carolina, Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, and David Wilmot, of PennsylVania.
On the 28th of February, 1846, Mr. Owen, from this select committee, reported an elaborate bill embracing the principal features of Mr. Tappan’s bill of the last session, but adding a section providing for a normal branch to give such a thorough scientific and liberal course of instruction as may be adapted to qualify young persons as teachers of our common schools and to qualify students as teachers or professors of the more important branches of natural science. A library was to be procured composed of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge. Special reference was to be made by the professors to the increase and extension of scientific knowledge generally, by experiment and research. Essays, pamphlets, magazines, manuals, tracts on science, history, chemistry, school-books, apparatus, &c., were authorized.
In advocating this bill Mr. Owen made a very able and impressive speech, and one of the most memorable occurring in the discussion of the subject of the disposition of the bequest. He condemned the dilatoriness of Congress in waiting for ten years, after solemnly accepting the trust, without doing anything whatever to carry out the intention of the donor.
“Small encouragement,” he remarked, ‘is there, in such tardiness as this, to others, as wealthy and as liberalas Smithson and Girard, to follow their noble example! Small encouragement to such men to entrust to our care bequests for human improvement! Due diligence is one of the duties of a faithful trustee. Has Congress, in its conduct of this sacred trusteeship, used due diligence? Have its members realized, in the depths of their hearts, its duties and their urgent importance? Or has not the language of our legislative action rather been but this: ‘The Smithsonian fund! Ah, true! That’s well thought of. One forgets these small matters.’”
Mr. Owen reviewed all the legislative proceedings in relation to the subject, the various plans brought forward from time to time for adoption by Congress, and called attention to the fact that the object for which Mr. Adams had labored with so much zeal and perseverance—an astronomical observatory—had already been established in Washington. He then made an elaborate reply to Mr. Choate’s arguments in favor of a ereat library. He admitted that “in books exists the bygone world. By books we come in contact with the mankind of former ages. By books we travel among ancient nations, visit tribes long since extinct, and are made familiar with manners that have yielded, centuries ago, to the innovating influences of time.” He would go as far as the farthest in his estimate of the blessings which the art of printing had conferred upon man; but such reasoning had no relation to the proposal eimbraced in Mr. Choate’s scheme.

<<<Page: 188>>>

“Tt substantiates not at all the propriety ofspending half a million, or two or three half millions of dollars to rival the bibliomaniacs of Paris and of Munich.
‘* Books are like wealth. An income we must have to live; a certain amount of income to live in comfort. Beyond a certain income the power of wealth to purchase comfort, or even wholesome luxury, ceases altogether. How much more of true comfort is there in a fortune of a million of dollars than in one of fifty, or say a hundred thousand? If more there be, the excess is hardly appreciable; the burden and cares of a millionaire outweigh it tenfold. And _ so, also, of these vast and bloated book-gatherings that sleep in dust and cobwebs on the library shelves of European monarchies. Up to a judicious selection of thirty, fitty, a hundred thousand volumes, if you will, how vast, yea, how priceless, is the intellectual wealth! From one to five hundred thousand, what do we gain? Nothing? That would not be true. A goblet emptied into the Pacific adds to the mass ofits waters. But if, within these limits, we set down one book out of a hundred as worth the money it costs, we are assuredly making too liberal an estimate.
“Our librarian informs me that the present Congressional library (certainly not one of the most expensive,) has cost upwards of three dol lars a volume; its binding alone has averaged over a dollar a volume. The same works could be purchased now, it is true, much more cheaply; but, on the other hand, the rare old books and curious manuscripts necessary to complete a library of the largest class would raise the average. Assuming, then, the above rate, a rival of the Munich library would cost us a million and a half of dollars; its binding alone would amount to a sum equal to the entire Smithsonian fund as originally remitted to us from England.
_ “And thus not only the entire legacy, which we have promised to expend so that it shall increase and diffuse knowledge among men, is to be squandered in this idle and bootless rivalry, but thousands on thousands must be added to finish the work ; from what source to be derived, let its advocates inform us. And when we have spent thrice the amount of Smithson’s original bequest on the project, we shall have the satisfac-
‘tion of believing that we may possibly have saved to some worthy scholar a hundred, or perchance a few hundred, dollars, which otherwise he must have spent to obtain from Europe half a dozen valuable works of reference !”
The most important feature of Mr. Owen’s bill was however considered by him to be the provision for normal-school instruction. He maintained it to be the duty of Congress to elevate to the utmost the character of our common schools. The normal branch was not intended by him to take the place of similar institutions in the States; it would be supplemental to these, but of a higher grade, and would enable young persons who had passed through the former to perfect themselves in “the most useful of all modern sciences—the humble yet world-subduing

<<<Page: 189>>>

science of primary education.” It would also be the place where we might hope to find trained, competent, and enlightened teachers for the State normal schools.
He also specially urged the importance of scientific researches.
“In these,” he said, ‘Smithson spent the greater part of his life. And it cannot be doubted that were he yet alive and here to-day to explain his wishes, original researches in the exact sciences would be declared by him a part of his plan. With the knowledge of his life and favorite pursuits before us, and the words of his will specifying the’ increase as well as the diffusion of knowledge for our guide, it seems nothing less than an imperative duty to inelude scientific research among the objects of a Smithsonian Institution.”
Mr. George W. Jones, of Tennessee, made himself conspicuous on this, as on many other occasions, by bitter opposition to the adoption of any plan for the organization of the Institution. He believed that the whole matter was wrong; that the government had no right to accept of the trust, and he proposed that the whole fund, in whatever form it might be, whether money or State bonds, should be returned to any of the heirs-at-law or next of kin of Mr. Smithson. He maintained that—
“Tt was neither the right, the power, or the true policy of the government to attempt to rear upon the city of Washington an institution for the education of school teachers, agricultural professors, &ec., to send out into the country. . . . Every measure of this kind had the tendency to make the people throughout the country look more to this great central power than to the STATE governments.”
Mr. Joseph R. Ingersoll, of Pennsylvania, favored the bill of Mr. Owen, and ridiculed the idea of Mr. Jones of returning the money to England. He thought that a great library was not desirable, and said that the necessary building to contain the greatest library in the world would in its own erection exhaust the entire bequest. The Capitol itself would not contain eight hundred thousand volumes so properly arranged as to be accessible. A library was not the object of Smithson. A plan should be adopted to cover general ground, in which all objects of science should be included. He favored that part of the bill providing for normal instruction, and would add an appropriation for defraying the expense of the delivery of lectures by our most distinguished men at different points throughout the country for scientific instruction.
Mr. Frederick P. Stanton, of Tennessee, in a brilliant and eloquent address to the House, supported the bill in its present form. He maintained that it was the result of the conflicting opinions of wise and experienced men, harmonized by comparison, discussion, and mutual concession. He dwelt at length on the importance of advancing science, the value of experimental research and observation; explained and advovated every section of the bill, and concluded by saying: “By proper management this institution may doubtless be made the instrument of immense good to the whole country. To the government it will be of no

<<<Page: 190>>>

slight advantage. It will be a great institution. It may attain a character as highas that of the French Academy, and its authority will then be decisive in reference to numerous questions of a scientific nature continually presented to the committees of Congress and the departments of government for determination and consequent action. Such an institution is greatly needed in the federal city.”
Mr. William Sawyer, of Ohio, wanted students to be sent to the Tustitntion selected from is various States and Territories according to the rat of representation in Congress. He also thought the rate of interest on the fund should be five instead of six per cent.
Mr. D. P. King, of Massachusetts, favored a provision by which students could be educated free of expense, and pay their board by labor on a farm connected with the establishment.
Mr. Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, advocated the bill as providing for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. It was too late to make the objection that the trust ought not to have been accepted. It was our duty to carry it into execution; and as to the fund, it ought to be considered as money still in the Treasury, unconnected with any investment the officers of the government may have made. He regarded lectures as the greatest means of extending knowledge which had been adopted in modern times. It was second only to the invention of the art of printing. He would admit that the government had no authority to take charge of the subject of education, but he did not consider this bill as liable to that objection. The normal school system he considered as highly beneficial, serving to produce uniformity in the language, and to lay the foundation of all sciences. The spelling-book of Noah Webster, which had been used extensively in our primary schools, had done more to produce uniformity in our language in this country than anything else. If we sent out good school-books from this institution, it would be of vast service to the country. He enlarged upon the benefits which would result to science and the diffusion of every kind of useful knowledge from an institution which would gather young men from the remotest parts of the country at the common point where every facility for practical instruction would be afforded. The taste of the country would be refined, and he did not consider this as anti-democratic. Knowledge was the common cement that was to unite all the heterogeneous materials of this Union into one mass, like the very pillars in the hall of the House before them
Mr. Geo. P. Marsh, of Vermont, said that whatever plan was adopted must of necessity be one of compromise, and that though he would have preferred the Senate bill for a library, yet he would cheerfully accede to the present one as proposed to be mpdiaedt He regarded it as an experiment which admitted, and which he trusted would hereafter receive, great changes in its conditions rather than as a complete working model. Two objects were aimed at by Smithson: first, the inerease of knowledge—its enlargement, extension, progress; second, the diffusion of

<<<Page: 191>>>

knowledge—its spread, communication, dissemination. Of the various instrumentalities for carrying out this noble and imposing scheme, he considered as the simplest and most efficient the collection for public use of a library, a museum, and a gallery of art, and he preferred that for a reasonable period the entire income of the fund should be expended in this way. While appreciating the value of research and experiment in natural knowledge and the economic arts, and including them in the plan of a great national institution for the promotion of all good learning, he dissented from the doctrine implied by the bill, which confined all knowledge, all science, to the numerical and quantitative values of :aterial things.
“Geology, mineralogy, even chemistry, are but assemblages of apparent facts, empirically established, and this would always be true of every study which rests upon observation and experiment alone. True science is the classification and arrangement of necessary primary truths according to their relations with each other and in reference to the logical deductions which may be made from them. Such science, the only absolute knowledge, is the highest and worthiest object of human inquiry, and must be drawn from deeper sources than the crucible and the retort. A laboratory is a charnel-house; chemical decomposition begins with death, and experiments are but the dry bones of science. It is the thoughtful meditation alone of minds trained and disciplined in far other halls that can clothe these with flesh and blood and sinews, and breathe into them the breath of life.”
Mr. Marsh then showed the importance and value of a great library, and gave illustrations from his extensive knowledge of the libraries in Europe.
My. Isaac EK. Morse, of Louisiana, was of the opinion that Smithson was a practical man, and that, although possessed of the highest learning, he condescended to devote his time to subjects of the most domestic and homely character. If his intention had been to establish a .niversity or a magnificent library, and thus to have his name transmitted to posterity, it would have been easy for him to have said so, and nothing would have been left to this country but to carry out his enlightened | and liberal intentions. But he had no doubt studied the peculiar character of the American people, and discovered that while they entertained a proper respect for the learning and genius of the German universities and of the sciences taught in the schools of Europe, still there was something in the common sense and practical knowledge of our people which comported with his own notions; and he desired that his money should be devoted to diffusing practical and useful knowledge among them. Mr. Morse then introduced a new bill as a substitute for that under discussion, providing mainly that “an offer be made through the newspapers of the United States and Europe of suitable rewards or prizes for the best written essay on ten subjects, the most practical and useful of which should be printed and widely distributed,”

<<<Page: 192>>>

thus fulfilling, in the letter and spirit, the wise and comprehensive intentions of the donor for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.
Mr. John 8. Chipman, of Michigan, spoke earnestly in opposition to the bill. He thought that our great and powerful government, prospering and progressing as it was in original native intellect, fostered by institutions known to no other country and no other people, should not have consented to be the recipient of what was called a muniticent donation of half a million from an Englishman to enlightened American republicans in this country. ‘ How did it happen,” he exclaimed, ‘that this government accepted such a boon from a foreigner—an Englishman too!”
After further debate, Mr. Adams moved that until the arrears of interest due from the States in which the money of Smithson had been invested were paid, no appropriation should be made by Congress for the fulfillment of the purposes prescribed by the testator.
Mr. A. D. Sims, of South Carolina, thought that he saw in the will of Smithson only what he had observed in other instances. “After having griped through their lives every shilling that came into their hands, animated at last by some posthumous vanity, they sought to build up a name which should live after them ; and such, rather than any feeling for humanity, was the motive that guided them.” He then proceeded to contend that the Government of the United States was not instituted for any such purpose as the administration of charities. He would introduce a bill repealing all laws heretofore enacted on this subject and giving authority and direction for the restoration of the money to the British chancery, where it could be devoted to purposes in England similar to those which had been contemplated in the city of Washington. The only difference would be in the location of the institution.
Mr. Adams proceeded to explain and advocate his substitute, and maintained that in the administration of this fund there were two or three principles that should be observed. One was, that it should never cost the people of the United States a dollar—that it should support itself; another, that no part should ever be applied to the ordinary purposes of education. It was unworthy the people of the United States to receive foreign aid for this purpose. There was no way in which the States could more degrade themselves than by relying on foreign aid or on the General Government for the education of their children.
‘‘But an experience of eight or ten years, since we received this money, had shown him that whenever distinguished scientific men were called upon for their opinions, scarcely two agreed.
“In addition to the application of a certain part of this fund to the science of astronomy, there was another provision which he found, and which he was happy to see this bill made, viz, that no portion of the fund should be appropriated—that it should be a perpetual fund. It was the interest which was to be applied.

<<<Page: 193>>>

“But in the mean time, while this delay had taken place, he was delighted that an astronomical observatory—not perhaps so great as it should have been—had been smuggled into the number of the institutions of the country under the mask of a small depot for charts, &e.
“ He claimed no merit for the erection of the astronomical observatory; but in the course of his whole life no conferring of honor, of interest, of office, had given him more delight than the belief that he had contributed, in some small degree, to produce these astronomical observatories, both here and elsewhere. He no longer wished any portion of Smithson’s fund applied to an astronomical observatory.
‘¢ Nor did he think it important to the people that any provision of this bill should be carried into effect immediately, but rather that measures should be taken to induce the States to pay the interest on their bonds, and then let the money be appropriated to any purpose on which Congress could agree more unanimously than on this bill.”
Mr. Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, was opposed to taking any money out of the Treasury of the United States to establish such an institution.
Mr. George Rathbun, of New York, did not feel disposed to object to any plan with seeming plausibility. He was in favor of expending the money in some way and upon some scheme, faithfully and honestly, but, above all, he was in favor of appropriating the money whether the final result should be good or not. He wished to wipe out the stain which rested on the character of this Government of withholding the money because we were not able to discover the best mode of expending it. In his judgment, a library was the least plausible of any of the schemes proposed.
Mr. Orlando B. Ficklin, of to which he would fain hope that gentleman himself would lend a favorable ear. One related to the appropriation of a part of it to the science of agriculture. He referred to the general and deplorable want of information of the components of the soil, the proper mode of treating it, the proper adaptation of crops to different soils, &e., and said he wished to see connected with this institution a department of agricultural chemistry and a professor of agriculture proper.
Mr. Bradford R. Wood, of New York, said that if ever there was a point in which the national honor was concerned, it was in carrying out the intentions of the testator in his bequest. He considered it an honor to the country that the subject of a monarchical government should have selected this as the instrument of his expansive benevolence. He thought normal instruction should be left to the States, but responded heartily to Mr. Hamlin’s suggestion in relation to agricultural instruetion. He would do all he could to increase and diffuse useful knowledge among the masses, but this could not and would not be attained by such education as would be obtained here, or by collecting at this point a splendid library. The latter might, and unquestionably would, benefit those already learned, but not the people.
Mr. William I’. Giles, of Maryland, proposed an amendment, providing for the publication and distribution of books for the instruction of the blind.
Mr. W. W. Wick, of Indiana, discussed the duties of a trustee, and took the ground that the Government of the United States had no discretion in this case as to the mode of investment of the funds. There was no power given by the will of Smithson to invest the money in any special manner, and the Government invested it at its own hazard. If, of his own accord and without authority, a trustee made an investment, he was responsible for it. Thus the United States stood in relation to this matter, and to this extent they were responsible, if at all. The honor of the country should be sustained by the faithful execution of the trust.
Mr. Washington Hunt, of New York, entirely concurred with Mr. Wick’s view of the subject. It was a reproach to the government to delay carrying out the purposes of this trust.
At length, after a full and exhaustive debate for two days, the House proceeded to vote on the bill and amendments. The normal school seetion was stricken out, on motion of Mr. Adams, by u vote of 72 to 42; the provision for professors and lecturers by 77 to 42, as also that for students. Mr. Jones’s amendment, to return the money to England, received 8 votes in the affirmative to i115 in the negative. Mr. Adams’s proposition, to defer the organization of the institution until the State of Arkansas could be induced by “moral suasion to pay up its indebtedness for interest,” was voted down by 74 to 57. The provision for lee

<<<Page: 194>>>

tures was negatived by 72 to 39, while the annual appropriation for a library was increased, on motion of Mr. Marsh, from $20,000 to $25,000. The sections requiring experiment and research in agriculture, oreiniene tures, &c., the publication of books, pamphlets, tracts, &e., and the offering of prizes for essays, were stricken out. An amendment that all copyright books, maps, charts, prints, &c., should be delivered to the institution was adopted, and also one that the Government collections deposited in it should be known as the National Museum.
Before a vote was taken on the bill as amended, a substitute for it was introduced by Mr. William J. Hough, of New York, retaining most of the features already agreed upon, and this was passed in the Committee of the Whole by a vote of 83 to 40. It was then reported to the House, and passed by a vote of 85 to 76.*
Among the prominent men in the affirmative were John Q. Adams, John Bell, Garret Davis, Jefferson Davis, Columbus Delano, Stephen A. Douglas, Solomon Foot, Joshua R. Giddings, Hannibal Hamlin, H. W. Hilliard, George Ee Marsh, %. D. Owen, F. P. Stanton, A. G. Thurman, Samuel F. Vinton, David Wilmot.
Among the nays were Howell Cobb, R. M. T. Hunter, J. R. Ingersoll, Andrew Johnson, George W. Jones, Preston King, Alexander H. Stephens, and Jacob Thompson.
On the 10th of August, 1846, the Senate proceeded to consider this bill; amendments proposed were disagreed to, and it passed without debate by 26 to 13. The yeas were, Messrs. Archer, Atchison, Barrow, Berrien, Cameron, Cilley, Thomas Clayton, John M. Clayton, Corwin, Davis, Evans, Greene, Houston, Huntington, Jarnagin, Johnson of Maryland, Johnson of Louisiana, Lewis, Mangum, Miller, Morehead, Phelps, Speight, Spurgeon, Upham, Webster.
Those who voted in the negative were, Messrs. Allen, Ashley, Atherton, Bagby, Benton, Calhoun, Dickinson, Fairfield, McDufitie, SempleTurney, Westcott, Yulee.
The bill was signed by President James K. Polk on the 10th of August, 1846, and became a law, and the Smithsonian Institution was organized under it with the following Board of Regents:
Hon. Gro. M. DALLAS, of Pennsylvania, Vice-President of the United States, ex officio.
Hon. Roger B. TANry, of Maryland, Chief Justice of the United States, ex ofjicio.
Hon. WILLIAM W. SEATON, Mayor of the city of Washington, ex officio.
Hon. GEORGE IiVANS, of Maine; Hon. IsAAc S. PENNYBACKER, of Virginia; Hon. SIDNEY BREESE, ct Illinois, of the United States Senate, poe by President of the Senate.
ce The eon See eeeeee ran depaeen in relation to the Sania bequest are reprinted in full in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, No. 328, 1879. ‘The Smithsonian Institution: Documents relative to its origin and history.” Fdited by Willlam J. Rhees, 1027 pp., 8°. 1879.

<<<Page: 195>>>

Hion. WILLIAM J. HouanH, of New York; Hon. ROBERT DALE OWEN, of Indiana; Hon. HENRY Ww. HILLIARD, of Alabama, a House of Representatives, esoaaan by the Speaker.
Hon. Rurus CHOATE, of Massachusetts; Hon. GIDEON HAWLEY, of New Tore Hon. RicHARD Rusu, of Pennsylvania; Hon. WILLIAM C. Preston, of South Carolina, citizens of States, plented by Congress.
ALEXANDER DALLAS BAcurE, Member of the National Institute; JosepH G. ToTrEeN, Member of the National Institute, citizens of Washington, elected by Congress.

<<<Page: 196>>>

JAR BiG IN dD EEX
N(OMESE Ret OBITUARY NOTICE OF JAMES SMITHSON.
(From the Gentleman’s Magazine. )
6 Oct. 1829.—Died: In the south of France, James Smithson, esq., M. INE ARG SS
“The birth of this gentleman is thus described by himself at the commencement of his will: ‘1, James Smithson, son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and Elizabeth, heiress of the Hungertords of Studley, and niece to Charles, the proud Duke of Somerset.’
‘Tt is well known that the wife of Hugh, tirst Duke of Northumberland, was Lady Elizabeth Seymour, grand-daughter of the same ‘ proud Duke of Somerset” It was the Hon. Frances Seymour, daughter of Charles, Lord Seymour, of Troubridge, by his first marriage with Mary, daughter and heiress of Thomas Smith, esq.—and thus half sister to the fifth and sixth Dukes of Somerset, the latter of whom was ‘the proud duke ’—that was married to Sir George Hungerford; but in the account of the family in Sir R. C. Hoare’s Hungerfordiana we find no Elizabeth, nor the name of Macie, which was that which Mr. Smithson originally bore. The family of Macie resided at Weston, near Bath.
“ James Louis Macie, esq. , was a member of Pembroke College, Oxford, where he was created M. A. May 26, 1786. He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1787, and appears under the same name in the Philosophical Transactions for 1791; but between that date and 1803 he chose to change his name to Smithson, although he continued to enjoy the property of the Macies. He was, we believe, at one time a vice-president of the Royal Society.”*
NOTE 2. ACCOUNT OF THE FIRST DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND. (Father of James Smithson.)
“Sir Hugh Smithson was one of the handsomest men in England. He possessed much talent, a highly-cultured intellect, and more ‘learn. ing than is generally found among the nobility. His parents, though of gentle blood, did not belong to “the nobility. He had raised himself by his marriage with the heiress to the name and fortune of the house of Perey, and he showed that he was worthy of both.”
“ Mémoires @un voyageur qui se repose; contenant des anecdotes historiques, politiques et littéraires relatives & plusieurs des principaux personnages du siecle. Par M. L. D. Troisitme édition. 3 vols. 8°. Londzes, 1807.” Vol. i, pp. 226-228. (This book is in Smithson’s library.)

<<<Page: 197>>>

years ago he was able to purchase the property on which Lord Perey had his seat, in Yorkshire; and a few years ago, the mansion, manors, and boroughs of Humphrey Morice, in the West, all were sold to the Duke. In “short, the rental, with the dukedom, he left at about 50,000 pounds, and to his second son 10,000 pounds perannum. The duke had negotiated a further improvement of the Northumberland estate, but did not live to see it completed.”*
On the death of the Duke of Northumberland, the following obituary notice was given in the same magazine:
“June 6,1786. At eight o’clock this morning, died at Sion House, in his 74th year, the Most Noble Hugh, Duke and Earl of Northumberland, Earl Percy, Baron W arkworth and Louvaine, Lord Lieutenant and Custos Rotulorum of the counties of Middlesex’ and Northumberland, and of the town and county of Neweastle-upon-Tyne, Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Garter, and Baronet ; who with a princely sor tune sustained his exalted rank’ through life with the greatest dignity, generosity, and splendor, and will ever be considered as one of the first characters of that age of which he constituted so distinguished an ornament. We are well informed that his annual income was not less than 45,000 1. per annum. His Grace’s extensive charities to the poor, his Concent encouragement of literature and the polite arts, and his generous patronage of every kind of merit, make his death truly a public loss, and will cause it to be long and sincerely lamented. His Grace was the son of Langdale Smithson, esq., and Philadelphia, daughter of W. Reveley, esq., of Newby, co. York. Upon the death of his grandfather (Sir Hugh Smithson, of Stanwick, Bart.), which happened. in 1729, he succeeded to the title of baronet t, and to his grandfather’s estate: and upon the de’th of his relation Hugh Smithson, esq., of Tottenham, he came into the possession of other estates in Yorkshire and Middlesex ; and also succeeded his relation as knight of the shire for the county of Middlesex, which he represented in three parliaments. Upon the death of his father-i in-law, Algernon, Duke of Somerset, whose daughter he had married, he succeeded to the title of Earl of Nor thumberland, the Duke having been created Earl of Northumberland upon his daughter’ S marriage, with remainder to her husband, and their issue, after the Duke’s death. The reason of this creation was as follows: The Duke’s mother (whose third husband was the Duke’s father) was daughter and sole heiress of Joscelin, the last Earl of Northumber ee which title was become extinct. Being so great an heiress she wa married three times while a minor. First, to the Earl of Ogle, ae died in a short time after, leaving no issue. She was next married to Thomas Thynne, esq., of Longle: ite, co. Wilts, but he was assassinated in Pall Mall by some ruffians hired by Count Coningsmarck, whose object was to marry the widow. Her third husband was the Duke of Somerset, and she was still a minor,as was also the Duke, by whom she had the above Algernon, who succeeded his father as Duke of Somerset, and possessed all “the Perey estates. He married Miss Thynne, gre de daughter of the first Lord W eymouth, and by her had one son aud one dau ehter. The son died unmarried, and the daughter Teed in 1740 the subject of this article, then Sir Hugh Smithson. The title of Somerset going to another branch of the Seymour family, the title of Northumberland was revived to the Duke’s daughter in consideration of her
* Gentleman’s apnea, 1786, vol. lvi, p. 617.

<<<Page: 198>>>

descent from the daughter of Joscelin the last Earl of Northumberland. The Perey estate also settled in her, together with several baronies, such as Percy, Lucy, Poynings, Fitz-Payne, Bryan, &c. The Duke of Somerset dying in 1750 Sir Hugh Smithson immediately took his seat in the House of Lords as Earl of Northumberland. In 1752 he was appointed one of the Lords of the Bed-chamber to the late King. In 1757 he was installed Knight of the Garter at Windsor. In 1762 he was appointed Lord Chamberlain to the Queen, and a Privy Counsellor ; also Lord Lieutenant of the counties of Middlesex and Northumberland. In 1763 he was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. In 1766 he was created Duke of Northumberland. In 1778 his Grace was appointed Master of the Horse, which he resigned in 1781. On Dee. 5th, 1776, which was her birthday, his Duchess died, when she had completed her sixtieth year. She was interred in her family vault in St. Nicholas chapel, Westminster Abbey. They had two sons and one daughter.”* The funeral of the Duke of Northumberland, whose death occurred ten years later, was celebrated with great pomp on the 21st of June, 1756, and his remains were also interred in Westminster Abbey with the following imposing list of titles and dignities inscribed on his coffin. COFFIN-PLATE INSCRIPTION OF HUGH SMITHSON,
(Father of James Smithson. )
“The most high puissant & most noble Prince Hugh Perey, Duke & Earle of Northumberland Earl Perey Baron Warkworth & Lovaine & Bart Lord Lieutenant & Custos Rotulorum of the Counties of Middlesex & Northumberland, of the City & Liberty of Westminster & of the Town & County of the Town of Newcastle upon Tyne, Vice Admiral of the County of Northumberland & of all America, one of the Lords of his Majesty’s most Hon?!e Privy Council, & Knight of the most noble Order of the Garter. Died on the 6 Day of June 1786, In the 74" Year of his Age.” t
(Half brother of James Smithson.)
The first Duke of Northumberland had one daughter, who died unmarried, and two sons—Hugh and Algernon (half brothers of James Smithson)—of whom the elder succeeded his father as the second Duke
te Gentleman’s Magazine, 1786, vol. lvi, pp. 529, 530. t Miscellanea Genealogica et Heraidica, London, 1868, p. 271.

<<<Page: 199>>>

of Northumberland. This son was born August 25, 1742, and married, in 1764, Anne, daughter of John, Earl of Bute, but had no issue. The marriage was dissolved, by act of Parliament, in 1779, and in the same year the duke married Miss Frances Julia Burrell, of Beckenham, Kent, by whom he had five daughters and two sons.
Karl Percy, the second Duke of Northumberland, served in the Continental wars under Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick; came to Boston, 1774 in charge of a brigade; commanded the reenforcements at the battle of Lexington, April 19, 1775; and led the column that reduced Fort Washington, at King’s Bridge, n near New York, November 16, 1776. He returned to England in May, 1777, devoted himself to improving his estates, died July 10, 1817, and was buried with great pomp in Westminster Abbey.
Of this Earl Perey an oil portrait has recently been presented to the town of Lexington, Massachusetts, by his grandnephew, Algernon George, the sixth and present Duke of Northumberland. The presentation was made through the Rev. Edward G. Porter, of Lexington, who was a guest at the duke’s castle in 1879, and was permitted, during his visit, to make extracts from the Percy family papers, especially from the letters written home by Earl Perey during his American experiences. In one of these letters, dated Boston, July 5, 1774, Perey told his parents that the people were very hot-headed and that he feared trouble. On the 27th of the same month he wrote that, owing to the absence of General Gage at Salem, he had been commander-i in-chief of the camp at Boston. He also inclosed a view of the town of Boston and the camp, and conveyed the information that the people say much and do nothing. He advised a steadfast government, as the people are worthy subjects, who talk as though they would wipe out the troops every night, but are frightened to dez ith when they see them. Theclergy were spoken of as teachers of sedition of the most virulent type. Another letter to his father was dated August 15, 1774, and in this Percy described the scenery around Boston as having the appearance of a park finely laid out. This beauty he considered to be offset by the poverty of the soil, which, in his opinion, was overtilled and scantily fertilized. In this lettersymptoms of trouble in the country were noted, and the writer professed his determination to do his whole duty wherever he might be called upon to serve rather than seek preferment where it might most easily be obtained—at the Court of St. James. In a subsequent letter to General Howe, at London, he wrote his serious apprehension of bloodshed and his belief in the necessity of strong government. From the Congress at Philadelphia he said he looked for either a wrangle among its members or for the origin of serious business for the home @ government. To his father, also, he wrote inthe same strain. On the 20th April, 1775, Perey reported to General Gage about the march to Lexington. There, Percy says, he met the troops retreating from Concord, and he ordered two fieldpieces to be trained upon the rebels {rom the heights. The shot from the cannon dispersed them. As the British had but little ammunition, and were fifteen miles from Boston, they were ordered by him to return. They were pressed severely by the rebels until they reached Charlestown, many men being killed. Perey attributed to the rebels cruelty and barbarity, writing that they scalped and cut off the ears of the wounded troops, showing that the British, too, believed that their opponents were cruel and barbarous. Perey, after this disastrous retreat, was of the opinion that the colonists were not an irregular mob, but determined men, accustomed to fight the French and the Indians. The road to Charlestown, Karl Percy said, was taken for the retreat, as it

<<<Page: 200>>>

was feared that the rebels, as they actually did, would have destroyed the bridge over the Charles River. Ina letter referring to Bunker Hill, Perey mentions the death of me Warren and that of Major Pite: airn, While Percy was in America he was advanced in rank to be a lieutenantgeneral, yet he was anxious to fies home, and he was allowed to do so near the close of the war. He was the first to suggest making peace with the colonists, and he was selected as minister plenipotentiary to secure such an end. Owing to dissensions in the British cabinet, he delined that honor and retired to private life.
On Tabasheer and Calamine. (I. From the London Monthly Review.)
‘“ The first paper is an account of tabasheer, an article of importance in the materia medica of the ancient Arabians, and still a medicine of great note in many parts of the East, though neither the substance itself nor its origin were known in the W ester n World. Dr. Russell ascer-
tained it to be a natural concretion from the juice of the bamboo cane,
and accordingly it is distinguished in different oriental languages by names signifying bamboo milk, bamboo camphor, and salt of bamboo. Dr. Russell had many green canes brought to him at Madras, and on splitting them, found some joints full of a watery liquid, some with the fluid much diminished and in different states of consistence, and others with some grains or particles of tabasher, either loose, in which case the reeds containing it are known by arattling sound on shaking them, or adhering to the extremities or sides of the cavity. The quantity of the tabasheer appears to be very inconsiderable, the whole produce of twenty-eight reeds from five to seven feet long, not much exceeding two drachms.”*
The following account of his paper in the Philosophical Transactions is given in the Monthly Review for January, 1792, vol. vii, pp. 75, 76.
‘“ We have seen in a former paper that tabasheer is a vegetable production, formed by spontaneous concretion from a fluid in the cavities of the bamboo cane. Its chemical constitution, however, is very different from what might be expected in a body of such an origin. The experiments of Mr. Macie, very judiciously executed, and here stated in detail, show it to be a siliceous earth, nearly the same thing with common flint that has been attenuated by artificial solution.
“ Neither water, alcohol, nor acids will act on it, but by imbibing
water it becomes tr ausparent ; the white bits ina low degree, the blui sh nearly as much so as glass. lt dissolves (as the precipitate from liquor silicum does) in caustic alealine lixivium; and the solution (like the liquor silicum itself, or the precipitate redissolved) becomes gelatinous on exposure to the atmosphere. In the fire it becomes harder, more compact, and diminished in volume, without any loss of weight, except of a little moisture, which it soon recovers from the air. With twothirds of its weight of fixed alkali, ina platina crucible, it ran into a transparent glass ; phosphorated ammoniae and litharge readily acted on
“* Monthly Review for September, 1791, vol. vi, p. 16.

<<<Page: 201>>>

it; borax more difficultly. It melted, also, at the blow-pipe, wheie the ashes of the coal happened to touch it, or when rubbed over with calcareous earth; and this appears to be the only property in which it differs materially from flint. This fusibility with calcareous e earth, and its contracting and hardening in the fire, might lead us to suspect an admixture of argillaceous earth; but no traces of that earth were discovered by the usual process with vitriolic acid.
“The experiments from which these general results are extracted were made on the finest tabasheer that could be purchased at Hydrabad. Several other specimens were examined, and all the genuine sorts were found to consist of the same earth. That which was taken immediately from the cane became black in the fire from some admixture of vegetable matter, but as soon as the blackness disappeared it was in all respects similar to the foregoing, so that the tabasheer of Hydrabad may be presumed to have suffered a degree of calcination before its exposure to sale.
‘That a siliceous earth exists in vegetables is evident from their ashes. Mr. Macie obtained a small portion of this earth from the ashes of charcoal, but found it far more abundant in those of the bamboo cane. He mentions a singular circumstance respecting this vegetable which occurred after his experiments were finished :
‘A green bamboo cut in the hot-house of Dr. Pitcairn, at Islington, was judg red to contain tabasheer in one of its joints from a rattling noise discoverable on shaking it, but being split by Sir Joseph Banks, it was found to contain not or rdinary tabasheer, but a solid pebble about the size of half a pea, so hard as to cut elass.”
(II. By Sir Humphrey Davy. From the Journal of the Royal Institution.)
On the 18th of November, a paper, by James Smithson, esq., F. B.S., on the chemical analysis of some calamines, was read.
Much uneertainty has hitherto prevailed on the subject of the composition of calamines. The author was induced to carry on his researches by the hopes of obtaining a more certain knowledge of these ores, and he considers his results as fully proving the necessity for new investigations, and that the opinions which had been adopted concerning them were far removed from the truth. Mr. Smithson’s experiments were made upon four different kinds of calamine: the calamine of Bleyberg, that of Somersetshire, that of Derbyshire, and the electrical calamine.
The calamine from Bleyberg was white, and had a stalactitical form ; its specific gravity was 3.584. It became yellow under the blowpipe ; and when exposed to the heat of the interior blue flame was gradually dissipated. It dissolved with effervescence in sulphuric acid, muriatic acid, and acetous acid. It Jost by heat rather more than one“fourth of its weight. It afforded oxide of zine, carbonic acid, and water, in the proportion of 714, 135, and 151; there was besides found in it a minute portion of the -arbonates of lead and lime; but these the author considers as accidentally mixed with the ore, and not in combination with the other ingredients.
The calamine from Somersetshire was of amammillated form. Its color was brown externally and greenish yellow internally ; its specific gravity was 4.336. It dissolved in sulphurie acid, with effervescence: and when analyzed by means of reé gents, afforded in 1,000 parts, 352 of carbonic acid, and 648 of oxide of zine.
The Derbyshire calamine was in small crystals, of a pale yellow color ; their specific gravity was 4.333. When analyzed, by solution in sul

<<<Page: 202>>>

phurie acid, and the action of heat, 1,000 parts of them were found to contain, of carbonic acid 348, of oxide of zine 652.
The electrical calamine, which Mr. Smithson examined, was from Regbania, in Hungary. It was in the form of regular crystals; the specific gravity of which was 3.454.
They became electrical by heat, and when exposed to the flame of the blowpipe decrepitated and shone with a green light. The electrical calamine differs materially in composition from the other specimens, in being formed chiefly of quartz and oxide of zine, which, according to the author, are in chemical union. One thousand parts of it gave 250 parts of quartz, 683 of oxide of zine, and 44 of water; the loss being 23 parts.
From his series of experiments on the calamines, Mr. Smithson has been able to deduce, with a considerable degree of accuracy, the composition of sulphate of zine, which, when free from combined water, he cousiders as composed of equal parts of sulphuric acid and oxide of zine.
In reasoning generally upon the constitution of salts of zine, Mr. Smithson offers some new observations in relation to affinity ; and he thinks that the proximate constituent parts of bodies are not absolutely united in the remote relations to each other, usually indicated by analyses, but that they are universally very considerable parts of the compound, probably seldom less than 2. He applies this theory in accounting for the presence of water in the calamine of Bleyberg, in which there is not sufficient carbonic acid to saturate the oxide of zine; and he considers this ore aS probably composed of a peculiar combination of water with the oxide of zine, which he names hydrate of zine, and of carbonate of zine to each other in the proportions of 3 to 2.
All the calamines, when long exposed to the heat of the blowpipe, are dissipated, with the production of white flowers. This circumstance, the author thinks, ought not to be attributed to an immediate volatilization of the oxide of zine, but rather to the deoxidation of this substance by the charcoal and combustible matter of the flame, and the consequent immediate sublimation and combustion of the metallic zinc, to which combustion the phosphorescence of calamines under the blowpipe may be owing.
The fibrous form of the flowers of zine, produced during the action of the blowpipe upon calamine, Mr. Smithson attributes to the erystallization taking place during their mechanical suspension in the air; and he thinks that the fluid state is not at all necessary to the production of crystals, and that the only requisite for this operation is a freedom of motion in the masses which tend to unite, allowing them to obey that sort of polarity which occasions them to present to each other the parts adapted to mutual union.*
“Mr. Smithson. Hommage respectueux de auteur.”
Nouveau systéme de minéralogie. Par J. J. Berzelius. Paris, 1819. “Mr. Smithson. Hommage de auteur, Gay-Lussac.”
Mémoire sur Viode. 1814.
* Journal of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, 1802, Vol. 1, p. 299.

<<<Page: 203>>>

“M. Smithson. From the translator.” —
Observations on the mineralogical and chemical history of the fossils of Cornwall. By M. H. Klaproth. Translated by Dr. John Gottlieb Groschke. London, 1787.
“M. Smithson. From the author.” Chemical account of various dropsical fluids. By Alex. Marcet. 1811. “M. Smithson. From the author.”
Letters to Sir Joseph Banks, president of the Royal Society, on the subject of cochineal insects discovered at Madras. By James Anderson, M. D. 1788.
‘Mons. de Smithson. Hommage de Vauteur.”
Mémoire sur la montagne de sel gemme de Cardonne en Espagne. Par P. Louis Cordier.
“A Mons. Smithson, de la Société royale de Londres. Hommage de Vauteur.”
Observations sur la simplicité des lois auxquelles est soumise la structure des cristaux. Par M. Hatiy.
“A Mons. de Smithson. Hommage de l’auteur.”
Mémoire sur les substances minérales dites en masse qui entrent dans la composition des roches voleaniques. Par P. Louis Cordier.
“Mons. Smithson. De la part de Vauteur.”
Mémoire sur les pierres météoriques. Par M. Fleurian de Bellevue.
1820.
‘‘A Monsieur Smithson, amateur éclairé de la chimie et de la minéralogie. Hommage respectueux de auteur de cet opuscule, J. A. H. Lucas, membre des sociétés géologique de Londres et Wernerienne @’ Kdimbourg.”
De la minéralogie. 1818.
“Mr. Smithson. From the author.”
On some of the combinations of oxymuriatic gas and oxygene, and on the chemical relations of these principles to inflammable bodies. By Humphrey Davy, esq., LL. D. London, 1811.
NiO Ey 6. APPRECIATION OF SMITHSON BY BERZELIUS.
Berzelius makes the following honorable mention of Smithson :
“Dans mon Lssai pour établir un systeéme électro-chimique, avec une nomenclature appropriée (Journal de Physique, Ann. 1811), j’ai fait mention des combinaisons de silice avec les autres oxides, comme de sels que jai nommés silicates. Il efit sans doute été prématuré alors dessayer de diriger davantage Vattention vers les silicates minéralogiques, parce que le’cahos ot se trouvaient ces derniers etit servi plutdt a prévenir contre de pareilles idées, surtout comme la nature de ce traité ne comportait pas une exposition plus étendue du sujet. J’ai appris depuis, avec une vraie satisfaction, que M. SMITHSON, Vun des minéralogistes les plus expérimentés de P Europe, sans avoir eu connaissance de mon Essai, a publié une idée semblable dans un Mémoire On some compounds of Fluorine. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, p. 94.

<<<Page: 204>>>

“ T have yielded to a sense of the importance of the subject in more than one respect, and of the uncertainty when I shall acquire ampler imformation at more voluminous sources—to a conviction that it is in his knowledge that man has found his greatness and his happiness, the high superiority which he holds over the other animals which inhabit the earth with him, and consequently that no ignorance is eee without loss to him, no error without evil, and that it is therefore pref: erable to urge unwarranted doubts, which can only occasion additional light to become elicited, than to risk by silence letting a question settle to rest, while any unsupported assumptions are involved in it.” *
‘We have no real knowledge of the nature of a compound substance until we are acquainted with its proximate elements, or those matters by whose direct or immediate union it is produced; for these only are its true elements. Thus, though we know that vegetable acids consist of oxygen, hydrogen, and car bon, we are not really acquainted with their composition, because these are not their proximate, that is, their true, elements, but are elements of their elements, or elements of these. It is evident what would be our acquaintance with sulphate of iron, for example, did we only know that a crystal of it consisted of iron, sulphur, oxygen, and hydrogen, or of carbonate of lime, if only that it was a compound of lime, carbon or diamond, and oxygen. In fact totally dissimilar substances may have the same ultimate elements, and even probably in pre-
sisely the same proportions ; nitrate of ammonia and hydrate of ammonia or crystals of caustic volatile alkali, both ultimately consist of oxygen, hydrogen, BUeaZOlen we enn
“Tt is evident that there must be a precise quantity in which the elements of compounds are united together in them; otherwise, a matter which was not a simple one would be liable, in its several masses, to vary from itself, according as one or other of its ingredients chanced to predominate. But chemical experiments are unavoidably attended with too many sources of fallacy for this precise quantity to be discovered by them; it is therefore to theory that we must owe the knowledge of it. For this purpose an hypothesis must be made and its justness tried by a strict comparison with facts. If they are found at variance, the assumed hypothesis must be relinquished with candor as erroneous; but should it, on the contrary, prove, on a multitude of trials, invariably to accord with the results of observation, as nearly as our means of determination authorize us to expect, we are warranted in believing that the principle of nature is obtained, as we then have all the proofs of its being so which men can have of the justness of their theories: a constant and perfect agreement with the phenomena, as far as can be discovered.” tf
“If the theory here advanced has any foundation in truth, the discovery will atredaee a degree of rigorous accuracy and certainty into chemistry of which this science was thought to be ever incapable, by enabling the chemist, like the geometrician, to rectify by calculation the unavoidable errors of his manual opel ations, and by authorizing him to
eliminate from the essential elements of a compound those products of its analysis whose quantity cannot be reduced to any admissible proportion. A certain knowledge of the exact proportions of the constituent principles of bodies may likewise open to our view harmonious analogies between the constitutions of related objects, general laws, We.,
* Observations on Penn’ 8 theory of the formation of the Kirkdale Cave. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, pp. 108, 104.
+ On the composition of ae compound sulphuret from Huel Boys. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, pp. 35, 37.

<<<Page: 205>>>

which at present totally escape us. In short, if it is founded in truth, its enabling the application of mathematics to chemistry cannot but be productive of material results.” *
“The name imposed on a substance by the discoverer of it ought to be held in some degree sacred, and not altered without the most urgent necessity for doing it. It is but a feeble and just tribute of respect for the service which he has rendered to science.” t
NOTE 8. CATALOGUE OF THE LIBRARY OF JAMES SMITHSON. Deposited in the Smithsonian Institution.
Anderson, Dr. James. Letters to Sir Joseph Banks, baronet, president of the Royal Society, on the subject of cochineal insects discovered at Madras. 26 pp. 8°. Madras, 1788.
Anderson, Dr. James. Letters on cochineal continued. 36 pp. 8°. Madras, 1759.
Anfrye et @Arcet. Description Wun petit fourneau a coupelle. 48 pp. 8°. Paris, 1813.
Antilogies et fragmens philosophiques, etc. Tomes i-iv. 604, 592, 600, 600 pp. 12°. Amsterdam, 1774.
Baker, Henry. The microscope made easy. 340 pp. 8°. London, 1743.
Becquerel, A. C. Expériences sur le développement de Velectricité par la pression; lois de ce développemeht. 32 pp. 8°. Paris.
Becquerel, A.C. Sur les fils trés-fins de platine et @acier; et sur la distribution du magnétisme libre dans ces derniers. pp.38-52. 8°. Paris.
Bellevue, Fleuriande. Mémoire sur Vaction du feu dans les voleans, ou sur divers rapports entre leurs produits, ceux de nos fourneaux, les météorites et les roches primitives. 62 pp. 4°. 1805.
Bellevue, Fleurian de. Mémoire sur les cristaux microscopiques, et en particulier sur la séméline, la mélite, la pseudo-sommite et le selce-
tomano. 24 pp. 4°. Paris, 1798.
Bellevue, Fleurian de. Mémoire sur les pierres météoriques, et notamment sur celles tombées pres de Jauzac, au mois de juin 1819, 24 pp. 4°. Paris, 1821.
Bergman, M.T. Opuscules chymiques et physiques. Tomesi,ii. 479, 5i3 pp. 8°. Dijon, 1780, 1785.
Berthoud, F. L’ Art de régler les pendules et les montres. Quatrieéme édition. 126 pp. 12°. Paris, 1811.
Berzelius, J. J. De Yemploi du chalumeau dans les analyses chimiques et les déterminations minéralogiques. Traduit du Suédois, par F. Fresnel. 406 pp. 8°. Paris, 1821.
Berzelius, J.J. Nouveau systéme de minéralogie. Traduit du Suédois. o2l pp. O°. | Paris, 1819!
Bibliotheca Parisiana. A catalogue of a collection of books formed by a gentleman in France. 172 pp. 89°. London, 1791.
Bray, Wm. Sketch of a tour into Derbyshire and Yorkshire. Second edition. 408 pp. 8°. London, 1783.
3reve notiza di un viaggiatore sulle inerostazioni silicee termali d’Italia, e specialmente di quelle dei Campi Flegrei nel Regno di Napoli. oo pp. 8°.
*A chemical analysis of some Calamines. Smithsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, p. 29. tOn the composition ot Zeolite. Smitnsonian Miscell. Coll., No. 327, p. 40.

<<<Page: 206>>>

Bruxelles, Description de la ville de; enrichi du plan de la ville et de perspectives. 192 pp. 8°. Bruwelles, 1794.
Bullock, Wm. A descriptive catalogue of the exhibition entitled Ancient and Modern Mexico. 32 pp. 89°. London.
Camus, A. G. Voyage fait dans les départements nouvellement réunis. Tomes i, ii. 198, 229 pp. 24°. Paris, 1803.
Catalogue of gems in the collection of Mr. Findlay, Oriental Museum. 43 pp. 12°. London, 1802.
Catalogue des livres manuscrits et imprimés de la bibliothéque du feu M. F. A. Quetant. 11 pp. 8° (Imperfect.) Paris, 1823.
Catalogue (A) of a splendid and most select collection of foreign minerals, which will be sold by auction by Mr. Thomas. 59 pp. 8°. London, 1826.
Catalogue of a valuable collection of minerals, the property of Mr. Heuland; to be sold at auction by Mr. Thomas. 27 pp. 8°. 1826. Chambers, E. Cyclopedia, or an universal dictionary of arts and sciences, containing an explanation of the terms and an account of the several subjects in the liberal and mechanic arts, and the sciences, human and divine; with a supplement and modern improvements incorporated in one alphabet by A. Rees. Vols.i-v. Folio. London,
1795-1797. °
Claubry, Henri Francois Gaultier. Recherches sur l’existence de Piode dans Veau de la mer et dans les plantes qui produisent la soude de varecs. 40 pp. 4°. ‘Paris, 1815.
Conformité des coutumes des Indievs orientaux, par M.delaC. 268 pp. 12°. Brugelles, 1704.
Constant, Benjamin de. De la doctrine politique qui peut réunir les partis en France. 43 pp. 8°. Paris, 1816.
Cookery, A new system of domestic, formed upon principles of economy and adapted to the use of private families. By a Lady. 375 pp. 8°. London, 1810.
Cordier, Louis. Mémoire sur la montagne de sel gemme de Cardonne en Espagne. 15 pp. 4°. Paris, 1816.
Cordier, Louis. Mémoire sur les substances minérales dites em masse qui entrent dans la composition des roches voleaniques de tous les ages. 87 pp. 4°.
Cronstedt, Axel F. An essay towards a system of mineralogy. ‘Translated from the original Swedish, with notes by G. von Engestrom; to which is added a treatise on the pocket laboratory, containing an easy method, used by the author, for trying mineral bodies, written by thetranslator. The whole revised and corrected, with some additional notes, by E. M. Da Costa. 365 pp. 8°. London, 1770.
Cronstedt, Axel F. An essay towards a system of mineralogy. Translated from the Swedish, with annotations and an additional treatise on the blow-pipe, by Gustav Engestrom. Enlarged and improved by John Hyacinth de Magellan. Vols. i, ii. 1095 pp. 8°. London, 1788.
Davy, Humphrey. On some of the combinations of oxymuriatic gas and oxygene, and on the chemical relations of those principles to inflammable bodies. 385 pp. 4°. London, 1811.
Delamétherie, J. C. Lecons de minéralogie. Tomes i, ii. 572, 630 pp. Se. Parisets2:
De V’Isle, Romé. Cristallographie, ou description des formes propres 4 tous les corps du reégne minéral, dans Vétat de combination saline, pierreuse ou métallique. Tomeiv. 96 pp. 8°. Paris, 1783.

<<<Page: 207>>>

De V’Isle, Romé. Description méthodique dune collection de minéraux du cabinet M. D. R. D. L. 336 pp.. 8° Paris, 1773.
Dhombres-Firmas, L. A. Nivellement barométrique du département du Gard. 33 pp. 89°. Nismes, 1811.
Dubois, C. M. Nouveau voyage de France, avec 24 itinéraires pour les différentes parties de Vempire. Tomes i, li. 439,501 pp. 129°. Paris, 1806.
The art of cooking made plain and easy. By a Lady. New edition. 458.pp. 8°. London, 1770.
Gmelin, L. Indagationem chemicam pigmentinigri oculorum taurinorum et vitulinorum adnexis quibusdam in id animadversionibus physiologicis. 72 pp. 12° Gettingc, 1812.
Gmelin, L. Observationes oryctognostice et chemice de Hauyna, etc. 58 pp. 8°. Heidelberga, 1814.
Jlarriott, Lieut. J. Struggles through life, exemplified in the various travels and adventures in Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. Second edition. Vols. i, ii. 399, 366 pp. 8°. London, 1808.
Haiiy, LYAbbé. Addition au mémoire sur l’Aragonite. 13 pp. 4°.
Haiiy, L?’Abbé. Observations sur la simplicité des lois auxquelles est soumise la structure des cristaux. 37 pp. 49.
Haiiy, Abbé. Tableau comparatif des résultats de la eristallographie et de analyse chimique, relativement a la classification des minéraux. 367 pp. 8° Paris, 1809.
Histoire de Madame la Comtesse des Barres, 4 Madame la Marquise de Lambert. 140 pp. 32°. Anvers, 1735.
Instruction pour les voyageurs qui vont voir les glaciers et les Alpes du canton de Berne. 40 pp. 12°. Berne, 1787.
Johnson, Dr. Samuel. Works of, A new edition in twelve volumes, to which is prefixed an essay on his life and genius, by Arthur Murphy. Vols. i-xii. 8°. London, 1820.
Joseph, Don John, and Don Fausto de Luyart. A chemical analysis of wolfram, and examination of a new metal which enters into its composition, Translated from the Spanish by Charles Cullen. 67 pp. 8°. London, 1785.
Journal de physique, de chimie, (’histoire naturelle et des arts. Tomes Ixxvi, Ixxvii, xxviii, janvier, février, mars, juin; Ixxix, juillet, septembre, décembre. 4°. Paris, 1813, 1814,
Journal @un voyageur anglais, ou mémoire et anecdotes sur son altesse royale Caroline de Brunswick, Princesse de Galles de 1814 a 1816. 46 pp. 8°. Brucelles, 1817.
Journal Wun voyage fait aux Indes Orientales, par une escadre de six vaisseaux commandés par M. Du Quesne, depuis le 24 février 1690 jesqwau 20 aot 1691, par ordre de la Compagnie des Indes Orientales. Tomes i-iii. 416, 388, 410 pp. 12°. Reuwen, 1721.

<<<Page: 208>>>

Klaproth, Martin Henry. Analytical essays towards promoting the chemical knowledge of mineral substances. Vols. i, ii. 607, 272 pp8°. London, 1801, 1804.
Klaproth, Martin Henry. Observations relative to the mineralogical and chemical history of the fossils of Cornwall. Translated from the German by John Gottlieb Groschke, M.D. 92 pp. 58°. London, 1787.
La Harpe peint par Jui-méme. 222 pp. 24°. Paris, 1817.
Lassaigne, J. L. Mémoire sur la possibilité de reconnaitre, par les moyens chimiques, la presence de Vaecétate de morphine chez les animaux empoisonnés par cette substance vénéneuse. 12 pp. 8°. 1824.
Lauzim, Mémoires de M. le Due de. Deuxiéme édition. Tomes i, ii. 293) 200 pp. 32°. Paris, 1822.
Le Baillif. Mémoire sur ’emploi de petites coupelles au chalumeau ou nouveaux moyens WVessais minéralogiques. 24 pp. 8°. Paris, 1823.
Lettre a4 Madame la Comtesse F———de B———; contenant un récit des événemens qui se sont passés a Lubeck dans la journée de jeudi 6 novembre 1806, et les suivantes. 78 pp. 8°. Amsterdam, 1807.
Logique, la, ou Vart de penser, contenant, outre les regles communes, plusieurs observations nouvelles propre s & former le jugement. Nouvelle édition. 454 pp.. 12°. Paris, 1816.
Londres (De) et ses environs. 127 pp. 8°. Amsterdam, 1789.
Lucas, J. A. H. De la minéralogie. 86 pp. 8°. Paris, 1818.
M—., Mons. de. Du développement a donner a quelques parties principales et essentielles de notre industrie intérieure et de Vaffermissement de nos rapports commerciaux avec les pays étrangers. BIpp. 89s . Paris, 1819;
Marcet, Dr. Alexander. A chemical account of various dropsical fluids. 42 pp. 8°. London, 1811.
Marchant, Ff. M. Lenouveau conducteur de ’étranger a Paris. 372 pp. 24°, Paris, 1816.
Margraf. Opusculus chymique. Tomes i, ii. 423, 459 pp. 12°. Paris, 1762.
Mercier. Mon bonnet de nuit. Tomes i, ii. 303, 307 pp. 12°. Londres, 1798.
Mexico. Description of a view of the City of Mexico and surrounding country, now exhibiting in the panorama, Leicester Square. 12 pp. 8°. London, 1826.
Meyer, D. L. A method of making useful mineral collections ; to which are added some experiments on a deliquescent ¢ aleareous earth, or native fixed sal ammoniac. 31 pp. 8°. London, 1775.
Montague, Basil. Hanging not punishment enough. Printed in 1701; reprinted in 1812. 33 pp. 8°. London, 1812.
Monthly Review (The), or Literary Journal. Vols. i, iv, vi, vii, viii, xxii, AM, XX Ve SMV REMIT RY, KERIK, Kimi, xIvii, i; vii, Iviii, lix Exe Ixiii, ’Ixxi, Ixxvi, Ixxviii, IXxix, Ixxxi, and index. 80, London, 1790-1810. (Imperfect. )
Morin, A. Relation des derniers 6vénemens de la captivité de Monsieur frére du roi Louis XVI, et de sa délivrance par M. le Comte d’Avaray, le 21 juin 1791, 114 pp. 8°. Paris, 1823.
Moyen facile et sir de payer les 700 millions en numéraire, sans altérer ni diminuer (Wun seul écu le numéraire actuel de la France. Par un Frangais. 16 pp. 8°. Paris, 1816.

<<<Page: 209>>>

“Murder most foul.” Trial of Charles Squire and Hannah, his wife, at Stafford Lent assizes, 1799, before Sir Soulden Lawrence, for the wilful murder of Joseph Green, their apprentice, by a series of the most shocking and unparalleled cruelties. 16 pp. 89°.
Nicholson, Wm. Journal of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and the Arts. December, 1810. No. 124. 82 pp. 8°. London, 1810, Nicholson, Wm. The first principles of chemistry. 564pp. 8°. London,
1790.
Notice des tableaux exposés dans la Galerie du Musée royal. 2 copies. 244 pp. 12°. Paris, 1826.
Paris, Dr. John Ayrton. Memoir of the life and scientific labours of Rev. Wm. Gregor, A. M. 37 pp. 8°. London, 1818.
Philosophical Trans: ctions of the Royal Society of London. 1811, part i; 1814, part ii; 1826, parti; 1827, parts i, 11. 4°. London.
Plain advice to the public to facilitate the making of their own wills; with forms of wills, simple and elaborate. 94 pp. 12°. London, 1826.
Platine (La), Vor blanc, ou le huitiéme métal. 215 pp. 129. Paris, 1758.
Pinkney, Lieut. Col. Travels through the south of France, and in the interior of the provinees of Provence and Lang guedoc, in the years 1807 and 1808. 481 pp. 8°. London, 1814.
Pollnitz, Baron de. Lettres et mémoires. Troisi¢me Gdition. Tomes i li, iv, v. 420, 418, 488, 476 pp. 129. Amsterdam, 1737.
Raab, ’ Tiléonore de. Catalogue méthodique et raisonné de la collection des fossiles, par M. de Born. Tomes 1, iis }546,' 603) pperise: Vienne, 1790.
Recherches sur la mythologie et la littérature du nord. 70 pp. 892. Paris, 1820.
Recueil des mémoires les plus intéressants de chymie et (histoire naturelle contenus dans les Actes de Académie W@Upsal et dans les Mémoires de VAcadémie royale des sciences de Stockholm publiés depuis 1720 jusqwen 1760. Traduits du Latin et de VAllemand. Tomes i, ii. 699 pp. 12°. Paris, 1764.
Relation dun voyage a Bruxelles et 4 Coblentz (1791). 124 pp. 89. Paris, 1823.
Rey, Jean. Dr. en médecine. Sur la recherche de la cause pour laquelle Pestain et le plomb augmentent de poids quand on les calcine. 144 pp. 12°. 1630.
Rostopchine, Comte. La vérité sur Vincendie de Moscou. 47 pp. 8°. Paris, 1823.
Rovigo, Due de. Extrait des mémoires de M. le Due de Rovigo concernant la catastrophe de M.le Due @Enghien. 68pp. 8°. Paris,
1823. Royal Armoury (Hay Market) Descriptive Catalogue. 16 pp. 8°. London.
Sage, B. G. Expériences qui font connaitre que, suivant la maniére dont la méme chaux vive a &té éteinte, elle est plus ou moins propre & former des bétons ou mortiers solides. 29 pp. 8°. Paris, 1809.
Sage, B. G. Expérience qui fait connaitre que la chaux éteinte par immersion peut étre régénérée en pierre caleaire par le seul concours de Peau. 8pp. 8°. Paris, 1810.
Sage, B. G. Précis des mémoires de Paris. 20 pp. 8° 1809.
Saint. Réal. Conjurations des Espagnols contre la république de Venice et des Graeques. 244 pp. 24°. Paris, 1803.
Saulnier, fils. Notice sur le voyage de M. Lelorrain, en Egypte, et observations sur le zodiaque circulaire de Denderah. 97 pp. 8°. Paris, 1822,

<<<Page: 210>>>

Smithson, James. On the composition of zeolite. From the Philosophical Transactions. 7 pp. 4°. London, 1811.
Steno, Nicolaus. The prodromus to a dissertation concerning solids naturally contained within solids. 128 pp. 12°. London, 1671.
Stephens, Rey. Walker. Notes on the mineralogy of part of the vicinity of Dublin. 59 pp. 8°. London, 1812.
Tennant, Smithson. Notice respecting native boracie acid. 2 pp. 4°. London, 1811.
Tozzetti Torgioni, Dr. Antonio. Sulle cicerchie memoria letta nell’adunanza delia, hk. Accademia dei georgofili di Firenze il di 5. Agosto 1785. 72 pp. -8°.. Firenze, 1793.
Voyage descriptive et philosophique de Vancien et du nouveau Paris. par 1, Pi) ;Pomed. 314 pp. 24°: Paris, 1814.
Weeks’ Museum, Tichborne street, London. 11 pp. 320°.
Weld, Isaac, jr. Travels through the States of North America and the Provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, during the years 1795, 1796, and 1797. Fourth edition. Vols. i, ii. 447, 384 pp. 8°. London, 1807. ;
Werner, A. G. Traité des caracteres extérieurs des fossiles. 310 pp. 12° Dresde, 1795.
Winsor, F. A. Notice historique sur Vutilization du gaz hydrogtne pour Véclairage. 64 pp. 8°. Paris, 1816.
Wollaston, Wm. Hyde. <A synoptic scale of chemical equivalents. 22 pp. 4°. London, 1814,
Wollaston, W. H. On the non-existence of sugar in the blood of persons laboring under diabetes mellitus. 16 pp. 4°. London, 1811.
Wolff, Jens. Runakefli le Runic Rim-stok, ou calendrier runique. 70 DP) So3s Lams 1820.
One of the books in Smithson’s library is “ Struggles through life, exemplified in the various travels and adventures in Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. By Lieut. John Harriott.” 8°. 2 vols. London, 1808.
Mr. Harriott (vol. ii, pp. 259-260) says:
“Respecting this intended city , I question much whether there ever will be a sufficient number of houses built to entitle it to the name of a great city. Reckoning up all the houses I could see or hear of as belonging to the new city of Washington, they did not amount to eighty. Having seen and examined everything, and
gained all the information I could concerning this so much talked-of city, I sat down between the President’s house and the Capitol, and entered the following in my minute-book, as my opinion, viz:
*‘ Should the public buildings be completed, and enterprising individuals risk considerably in building houses; should the Union of the States continue undisturbed ; should Congress assemble for a number of years, until the national bank and other publie offices necessarily draw the moneyed interests to it, the city of Washington, in the course of a century, may form a focus of attraction to mercantile and trading people sufficient to make a beautiful commercial city deserving the name of its founder; but [ apprehend so many hazards as to be most unwilling to venture any part of my property in the undertaking.”
S. Mis. 5414

<<<Page: 211>>>

The other work in Smithson’s library on America was by Isaac Weld, the Secretary of the Royal Society.
ovine. Weld,” s ays the London Monthly Review,* “ feeling in common with the inhabitants of Europe the desolations of war, and trembling at the frightful progress of anarchy and confusion, was induced to cross the Atlantic for the purpose of examining into the truth of the various accounts which have been given of the flourishing condition of the United States.”
Of Washington Mr. Weld remarks: ‘ Were the houses that have been built situated in one place, all together, they would make a very respectable appearance, but scattered about as they are, a spectator can searcely perceive anything like a town. Excepting the streets and avenues and a small part of the ground adjoining the public buildings, the whole place is covered with trees. ‘To be under the necessity of going through a deep wood for one or two miles, perhaps, in order to see a next-door neighbor, and in the same city, is a curious and, I believe, a novel circumstance. . . . The number of inhabitants i 1S 5,000... . The people who are opposed to the building of the city of Washington maintain that it can never become a town of any importance, and that all such as think to the contrary have been led astray by the representations of a few lobe cag persons. ..° . heyane sist that if the removal of the seat of government from Philadelphia should take place, a separation of the States will inevitably follow.”
Notwithstanding the condition of the city of Washington at the beginning of the present century, Mr. Weld indulged hopes of its future greatness. He remarks:
“Considering the vastness of the territory which is opened to the Federal city by means of water communication, considering that it is
capable from the fertility of its soil of maintaining three times the number of inhabitants that are to be found at present in all the United States, and that it is advancing at the present time more rapidly in population than any other part of the whole continent, there is good foundation for thinking that the Federal city, as soon as navig% ition is perfected, will increase most rapidly, and that at a future day, if the affairs of the United States go on as prosperously as they have done, it will become the grand emporium of the West, and rival in magnitude and splendor the cities of the whole world.” +
This view was undoubtedly entertained by Smithson, and experience has shown how well-founded were his anticipations. The wisdom of his selection has been fully justified.
* Monthly Review for September, 1799. London. tIsaac Weld. Travels through North America. 1807. Vol. i, p. 80.

<<<Page: 212>>>

The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution, as well as to furnish information of a character suited especially to its correspondents and collaborators. r

<<<Page: 213>>>

Oia g a iV onhire WSO

<<<Page: 214>>>

By Epwarp H. Knicut, A. M., LL. D.
DNR OD Ca Worn.
The objects illustrated in the following paper are merely those of one class, shown at the Centennial Exhibition, in Philadelphia, 1876.
The paper, therefore, makes no pretense to completeness, as the weapons shown in the various national sections were in most cases treated as mere casual objects thrown in as curiosities, and in many cases so
little esteemed by the parties in charge that they were huddled away under tables; surprise was sometimes expressed that any one should pore over the coarse and clumsy when the best talent of the country had exerted itself on the objects prominently displayed as worthy of notice.
More than 700 sketches of the crude and curious implements shown . at the exhibition were made by the author; the following were a portion, including weapons only, while a much larger, embracing tools of industry, were the subject of a series of papers in the Atlantic Monthly, May, 1877, to April, 1878, inclusive.
There was no concurrence of design in the exhibition, so far as concerns our present subject. In almost all cases the objects were mere casual additions; in a few the scientific spirit was evident, and some care had been taken to illustrate this side of ethnology.
To illustrate: The curious collection of musical instruments and weapons brought by Capt. Long (Bey) from Central Africa was almost hidden
‘in a corner, while the tufted carpets, embroidered robes, and horse-trappings were prominently shown. In the collection from Java and the other Dutch Colonies in the Malay seas, much more was shown of the appliances of the semi-savage races of the region. Brazil, which had so adinirable a collection of its agricultural and forest products, had scarcely anything which touches our subject, and Japan had a great deal, though much less in the way of its weapons than in its industries and domestic implements.
The Centennial Exhibition was mainly of the means and results of modern industry and art, and the primitive objects were comparatively but strays and occasionals. It is, therefore, not the author’s fault that
the exhibit of the relatively rude is so incomplete, as he has rigidly con213

<<<Page: 215>>>

fined his illustrations to objects actually exhibited there; and he is not responsible for the circumstance that the comparatively unknown and little thought of Portuguese colony of Angola had more in his line of search than the whole continent of South America.
It may be mentioned, however, that the Dutch and Portuguese colonies had a manifold better exhibit in Paris in 1878, and that the former had the finest ethnological display of the mechanical ingenuity of an unlettered people which it has ever been the good fortune of the author to see.
Types of Savage Weapons.—The simplest form of a weapon is a stick; a heavy stickisaclub. The club with a knob becomes a mace; the swelling end sharpened on one edge is an axe. Point the stick and it is a spear; if light, it is a javelin; shorter still, it is a dagger for close quarters. Flatten the stick and give it an edge, it becomes a sword; or, if short, it is a knife.
So far the weapon is a single piece of wood; but some ingenious man contrives to mount a stone iu a withe, or sling it with a thong or in the skin of an animal’s leg, or lash it to a stick ; or he learns how to project a light spear from a bow, ora heavier one by means of a stick or a thong. We find all these modifications in the collections from various countries at the Centennial.
Another type of weapon is the stone or club which is thrown; the simplest method is, of course, the mere hurling of stones by the hand. Then there are several forms of slings; the one having two thongs and a pocket, and the other a stick for hurling a perforated stone. The stone on the end of a string may be considered a third kind, and out of this grows the bolas—several associated balls on as many strings—which has a whirling motion when thrown. All of these also were exhibited. The lasso of South America naturally occurs to one in speaking of thie bolas, though the noosed lasso belongs to another class of devices, not exactly & weapon but a snare.
Materials employed.—The statement of Lucretius (De rerum nature) in regard to the discovery of weapons relates rather to the material than the form. ‘The first weapons of mankind were the hands, nails, and teeth ; also stones and branches of trees, the fragments of the woods; then flame and fire were used, as soon as they were known; and lastly was discovered the strength of iron and bronze. But the use of bronze was known earlier than that of iron, inasmuch as it is more easy to work and its abundance is greater.” Bronze has greatly the antecedence of brass, the former being not less than a score of centuries the more ancient.
Brass is an accidental alloy, formed originally by melting copper in contact with calamine stone (silicate of zine), the practice, purely empiric, producing what was not known as an alloy, but as a bright copper, valued for its color and other qualities. Certain copper mines were valued as producing this gold-colored copper, but it was found out subsequently that by melting copper with a certain mineral (calamine) the same effect was produced. Aristotle, Strabo, and Albertus Magnus re-

<<<Page: 216>>>

fer to an earth which conferred a yellow color on copper. Sulphate of zine had a place in the pharmacopeeia before its metallic base was known. The metal was discovered by that brilliant absurdity, Paracelsus, in the sixteenth century.
Bronze, on the contrary, hasalways been recognized as an alloy, being made by the fusing together of copper and tin in suitable proportions. It is found in those countries which possess both of these metals, and also in those ancient lands to which the Phceenicians penetrated. The Malay Islands and Cornwall furnished the tin of antiquity and that of to-day. Australia has also supplied it largely of late. The kassiteros (tin) of the Greeks gave its name to Cornwall and Scilly, the kassiterides of Herodotus.! It was the kastera of the Sanscrit, kasdir of the Arabs. The Javanese tinah, England tin, Swedish tenn, and Icelandic den mark the limits in either direction of the great traders of the earliest period of history. A bar of tin has been recovered from the Swiss lacustrine piles of Estavayer, molds for hatchets have been found at Morges, and remains of bronze foundries have been uneovered in the Canton of Vaud.”
Some of the ancient bronzes of England, Ireland, Scotland, and South America have notable proportions or traces of iron and of lead, and some of them have both of these metals in their composition. In the Roman bronze coins of Pompey, Hadrian, and Probus, zine, iron, lead, and silver are found. One cein of Tacitus is of copper and iron. These are probably accidental impurities rather than intentional.
The lacustrine researches in the Swiss lakes have given rise to the classification of copper, tin, lead, and zine as the principal ingredients of bronze, and silver, iron, antimony, nickel, and cobalt as accidental, and, it may almost be said, unsuspected. The Helvetian bronzes were destitute of lead, and the presence of zine appears accidental. The use of calamine wascommon in the Levant, and lead was added to the bronze in notable quantities. In the bronze of the Swiss lakes the copper varied from 67 to 95 per cent., and the tin from 3 to 20 per cent (Desor). Sir John Lubbock remarks that lead and zine are not found in the bronzes of the true bronze age.’
The iron of early ages, as well as that made by the native workmen of Asia and Africa at the present time, was obtained by a means analogous to that of the Catalan process. The fragments of rich iron ore are distributed through the mass of charcoal in the furnace, and by means of the bellows the fire is urged until the metal runs into a viscid ball, which is hammered to expel the dross, and the steel obtained by the single operation is purified and shaped by successive heatings and hammerings. An excellent quality is obtained, and native weapons were Shown at the Centennial from India, Soudan, Angola, Mozambique,
' Herodotus, iii, 115. 2 Elisée Reclus, Smithsonian Report, 1861, p. 357. *Sir John Lubbock’s Introduction to Sven Nilson’s “Stone Age,” page xli.

<<<Page: 217>>>

Zululand, the Gold Coast, Borneo, and the Philippines; also, ancient bronzes from Egypt.
Copper, which may be held to have preceded bronze, was shown in the Indian relics from Wisconsin, and a modern fish-spear of an Alaskan tribe. Copper implements have been found in the lacustrine deposits at Peschiera on Lake Garda.*
1. Clubs and throwing weapons. 4. Spears. 2. Axes: 5. Shields. 3. Knives and swords. 6. Bows and arrows.
Leaving preambulation, let us begin at the Cape of Good Hope. The Ixeerre of the Kafir is his next best weapon after his favorite assegai, the native javelin; he does not use the bow and arrow. The keerie, called a knob keerie by the colonists at the Cape, is a hurling club, or is used in hand to hand encounters, but principally the former. It varies in length from 14 inches to 3 feet, but has been seen as much as six feet long.’ It is straight and has a knob at the end. It is usually of acacia (Acacia capensis), but sometimes of strick wood (Laurus bullata). A more costly and highly prized material is rhinoceros horn, of which the keerie in the Cape of Good Hope exhibit (shown in the illustration) was made. The keerie is habitually carried, and is presented to a friend on meeting him; he touches it, and this is the etiquette of salutation. By a modification of the weapon, giving it a slight bend, it is used in ricochet, rebounding from the
ground and striking upward. ; The knob keerie of hard black wood is earried by the ee eria. Can» Bushman also.’ The pen bas of the Bretons has been com-
GAGete Hove ared tom
Coming northward from Zululand we reach the Portuguese Possessions on the east coast of Africa, and find Mozambique weapons; these were shown, together with those from Angola, in the Agricultural Building at the Centennial. Fig. 2 represents two of them; one has a spear-shaped head, and the knob of the other resembles an ear of corn, or the raceme of a native plant common in the country. It suggests the idea of maize, but is made by longitudinally grooving, and then notehing the protuberant ridges; a not unlikely style of ornamentation for a man: to hit upon when amusing himself by carving his weapon. The
4Morlot, transl. in Smithsonian Report, 1863, p. 373. ®°Wood’s ‘Natural History of Man,” vol. i, p. 108.
§ Baine’s ‘‘South Africa,” p. 363.
7See frontispiece to Trollope’s ‘‘ Walks in Brittany,” 2 vols., London, 1840.

<<<Page: 218>>>

clubs of the Dinkas of the Upper Nile’ are also of hard wood made by ridging and notching so as to leave rows of knobs, like many of the Polynesian weapons. The form resembles the chocolate mullers we used to see, and also suggests the Roman mace clausula.
The club of the Doérs of the Upper Nile® has been compared in shape to the mushroom, having a round disk-shaped head with a sharpened periphery. It is 30 inches in length and made of hard wood. The Djibba club has also a flattened head with a sharp edge, which is guarded by a sheath of hide when not in use. Another club in use in the last-mentioned tribe is champignon-shape, like an unexpanded mushroom. The King of Dahomey” is versatile in clubs; one favorite form has a knobbed end and four square knobs at the side; another has along sharp spike at the end projecting at right angles from the handle.”
A variety of sticks and clubs were brought from the different Australian provinces. The peculiar hurling weapons, the boomerang and kangaroo rat,
li Q#Hy will be considered presiN Nl MZ E PE ie Us ‘ t | 8G ently. Fig.3isaQueensA \N | | c ; a \ \\ W(t land native, armed with ‘ ; ~ ) ¢ c i, \ ( his waddy and shield. _ Ni ee \ >: te a Vic. 2—Wozambique iy Oe Waddy is a native name Gace Portugwese Hf OEM 2 Jolonies. 3 for a simple club, as shown ZG in Fig. 3,and band d, Fig. 4. The knobbed a . : . \Z club is known as the nulla-nulla, and isshown Z ‘ E a: . ~ y in Fig. 5,and at c, Fig. 4. When the head
is flat and sharpened to an edge, the colonists term them tomaharks, from theirresemblanee to the North American Indian weapon. Fig. 4 shows two wooden tomahawks (ae) of New South Wales,” a nulla-nulla (¢), rg. Fe Netine Auawanan with cup 2D two waddies (bd), The typical Aus:
and shield, Queensland. tralian waddy is 2 feet 8 inches long, weighs 2 pounds, and is made of the heavy and tough mountain tea-tree, box, orred gum wood. It has a pointed end so thatits thrust is dangerous.”
8 Wood’s ‘‘ Natural History of Man,” vol. i, p. 524.
8 Wood’s ‘‘Natural History of Man,” i, p. 494.
10 Duncan’s ‘‘ Western Africa,” p. 226.
The knob sticks of the Wanyamuezi are shown in Stanley’s “ Livingstone,” plate opposite page 544,
2 See the li-bil, R. Brough Smith’s ‘‘ Aborigines of Victoria,” Fig. 97.
18 Wood’s ‘‘Natural History of Man,” vol. ii, p. 29.

<<<Page: 219>>>

218 SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. ye
Some of them have four grooves extending from the point to the hand grasp, so that the wound is something like that made by a bayonet. Fig. 5 shows two nulla-nullas or hunting clubs from the southern part of the island, the colony of Victoria. They are two feet long."
The nulla-nulla of the Lower Murray River is the warra-warra of the Yarra, and is made of a sapling of the mountain tea-tree, the enlargement at the root forming the knob. A pointed nulla is made by fashioning one of the projecting roots into a pointed spike, and is called langeel.” Sharp-edged wooden maces, which may be termed wooden swords, are also made by the Australian natives, some weighing as high as 41 ounces.'®
Fic. 4.—Australian wooden weapons, Fic. 5.—Australian nullaNew South Wales. nullas, Victoria.
Crossing to New Zealand, we find the Maories to have a much greater variety of material and of shape. The most prized material is the green jade, and it is also wrought with the greatest difficulty. The bone oi whale bears a medium character in both respects. Fig. 6 shows two
‘4h. B. Smith’s ‘‘ Aborigines of Victoria,” vol. i, 299-300, Figs. 56-59. 6 Ibid., Fig. 62.
“ Ibid., Figs. 60, 66, 67; see also Figs. 61, 65.

<<<Page: 220>>>

forms of Maori wooden clubs, known as pdtw; one has a sharp edge to the axe-like head, and a bunch of feathers intended to shake in the face of an enemy and disturb his aim. The weapon to the right is paddleshaped, and has two edges; a not uncommon form in Polynesia. The merai or patu-pdtu of New Zealand is a two-edged club of a prolonged ovoidal shape. It usually has a hole in the neck for a wrist-cord. Fig. 7 is of green jade, very symmetrical, and beau-
Fic. 6.— Wooden clubs, New Zealand. Fic. 7.— Stone merai, Fic. 8.—Green-stone New Zealand. merai, New Zealand. tifully polished with a species of corundum found in the island. Fig.8 is of stone, and is also carefully made and polished. Such weapons become heir-looms in families, and possess names, much as in former times titles were given to swords, as, for instance, Samsamah, the cimeter of Haroun al Raschid, and Lxcalibar, the sword of King Arthur. The stone merai, Fig. 8, was called Kororaki. Fig. 9 is a stone weapon called Pdtu Kohatu ; its wrist-thong occupies a circular depression. Fig. 10 is ¢ carved weapon, the name of which was Kaikanohi, or “face-eater.” It ismade from a bone of a spermaceti whale, and has the reputation of having been handed down in the family for twelve generations. Jerais of this shape are also made of wood, but are not as much valued as those of harder and more enduring materials. It had been supposed that the “ flattened soda-water-bottle shape,”

<<<Page: 221>>>

as Tylor has called it, was peculiar to this ingenious cannibal race, the antipodes of the British, but it appears that the Peruvians make a weapon of exactly similar shape; one has been found of dark brown jasper,” and another of a greenish amphibolic stone. Another of native copper has been found in Michigan, and was shown at the Centennial. Itis 164 inches long, 23 inches wide for 11 inches of its length, contracts to 14 inch, and then enlarges to 2 inches, to assist the hand-grasp. No deduction of importance is to be made from this; the blade is but 1} inch wider than the handle, and the probability is that the piece of native copper approximated that shape, the work of the owner consisting in flattening, Sharpening, and shaping it symmetrically.
Crossing the Southern Ocean we reach the Fiji Islands, lately come into the possession of Great Britain. The Fijian is a
-apuan ‘race, and remarkable for conOat. Khan, structive ability. The club is his great New Zealand. weapon, and upon it he expends his lavish carving, the implements being of various sizes and patterns, the handiwork being all guided by individual taste.” The display at the Centennial was not . iG a Fic. 10.—Kakati Weapon large, the islands not being specially represented. (done of whale), New ZeaThe classification of their clubs into large, small, “| knobbed, bladed, axe-shaped, straight, or curved gives but a faint idea of the variety. The dromo is a spiked mace, and resembles some of the North American Indian clubs. The dui is like the double Phrygian axe. The totokea is a spiked hammer.” The stem of a small tree, with a swelling bole, and the radiating roots trimmed as projecting knobs, is a common style. Another form is made by bending over a young sapling nearly to the ground, so as to bring the tap-root at right angles to the stem. When the tree has suiliciently grown, it is eut and shaped, and the tap-root forms a laterally-projecting knob with a circle of spikes formed of the other roots, shortened and sharpened. Other clubs are like maces; squared and notched; with pyramidal or mushroom tops; ornamented with braided coir, with wicker-work, with feathers worked in with sinnet, inlaid with shell, bone, hog’s tusks, human or whale’s teeth.”! We miss clubs when we come to lands where the more deadly metal is
Klemm, C. N., part ii, page 26. 20 Williams, ‘‘Fiji,” pp. 43-4; 589, 'S Rivero & Tschudi.? Plates, pl. xxxiii. 21 Wood, vol. ii, p. 275. '°Smythe’s ‘‘Ten Months in Fiji,” p. 120.

<<<Page: 222>>>

abundant. Java has, however, two clubs deemed worthy of special
Fie. 11.—Ojibeway wooden club, Canada.
dians. Spiked weapons have always been in vogue, and a curious example of one is a
Seen S WN
CS cy
Fic. 14.—Haidah « sda nlaacantry ea eateT iG. 14 Haidah and the idea of pleasantry does not, we are
tional Museum.
names, Indan and Gada. The ‘“war-fan” of the Japanese is perhaps unique, being of large size and having a sheath of iron so that it may do duty as a club on emergency.
Coming to America we find a greater variety, if possible, than Fiji furnishes, for those astute islanders have but a meager choice of materials— wood and shell. Fig. 11 is an Ojibeway war-club from Sagamook, on the north shore of Lake Huron. Fig. 12 shows two wooden clubs, one armed with an iron spike; they are
from the Missouri Valley In-
stag’s-horn club with the brow _ Fie. 12.—Wooden clubs of Dakotah.— antler left as a spike, found in National Musewm. one of the Swiss Lakes. See memoir by M. E. Desor.” Stag’s-horn hammers are also very numerous in the debris of the lake dwellings. A hammer of serpentine with inserted helve and with a hammering face and pointed peen is mentioned by Nilson4 Many other forms are found among the Indian tribes, but the aim has been to place together the wooden clubs made in a single piece. Those in which stones or metal are mounted will be shown presently. Fig. 13 is a pestle shaped warclub of the Pai-Utes and Mohaves. They are termed ‘face mashers,” since they are carried concealed about the person and used for striking an enemy in the face. Figs. 14 and 15are from the Pacific Coast. They are elaborately carved war-clubs of hard wood from the Haidah Indians of 3ella-bella, British Columbia. They are what we should call “ grotesquely carved,” but the emblems on them are mythological,
aay ° Fic. 13.— i 7 informed, enterintothe work. The canoes, 1G. oie te
totem-posts, paddles, bowls, and other ob*""
22 Sir Stamford Raffles’ ‘‘ Java,” 4to ed., i, 296 (Figs. 8, 9). 23Translation in Smithsonian Report, 1865, page 397. 24Tbid., page 359.

<<<Page: 223>>>

jects fashioned in wood, exhibit the same style of ornamentation, as
it must be called. The Argentine Republic sent a mace, which is shown at Fig. 16. It is
Fic. 15.—Haidap Signed to form axes and adzes. grouped separately.
carved war-club.— be National Mu-
xe i SS \y
SANA = ee ISSEY S x ENN SA 5
SW) AUBAG x wer VR)
*) oS
Seay
seum.
of hard wood resembling lignum vite, and is 48 inches long. It belonged to an Indian of the pampas. <A spear eight feet long, of the same kind of wood and tapering to a point, was exhibited withit. The club of the Gran Chaco Indians” of the La Plata region is square in section, larger towards each end, and is grasped in the middle. It is called a macana, and is used either as a hurling weapon or as a club at close quarters. The clubs of the Guiana Indians are maces of square section, or paddle-shaped with somewhat sharp edges. The handles are embroidered with cotton string, Some in a very ornamental manner. The Uaupé Indians of the Amazon” also use carved wooden clubs.
We come now to a class of clubs in which a stone is mounted upon a withe or other kind of handle to form a maul or hammer. We do not in the present article consider those which have sharp edges, and are de-
primitive an affair as can well be devised.
r ae They will Fic. 16.—Mace From Paraguay, Argentine Confederation.
Fig. 17 is about as
It isa shell-headed club from a shell-heap on Saint John’s River, Florida.
The head is a Pyrula, and the specimen is peculiar in this, that though ancient it still has the remains of the original handle.
In connection with this method of mounting, by a perforated head through which the helve is thrust, mention may be made of hammer stones, sometimes known as helved wedges, similarly handled, and
Fic. 17.—Shell-headed club froma Florida shell-heap.—National Museum. which have been hurl-
25 Wood, vol. ii, pp. 569, 570.
ing axes. They are more frequent in Europe than in America. Some
26 Wallace’s ‘‘Amazon,” 504,

<<<Page: 224>>>

of these have their edges in line with the handle and some across it, as axes and adzes respectively. See Sven Nilson’s ‘Stone Age,”” edited by Sir John Lubbock. <A remarkable four-pronged stone battle-axe is shown in the museum of Lund, Sweden, having a diameter of 8 inches, and perforated for a handle.” |\)\\ Fig. 18 is a stone maul Tah lashed with raw-hide thongs y toa T-shaped handle which Fic. 18.—Stone maul, from British Columbia.—National on has been formed from a forked seum. branch. It isfrom the Haidah Indians, Bellabella, British Columbia. Fig. 19 is a large stone maul lashed to a short handle formed of a forked limb. It is from Sitka, Alaska. Fig. 20 is from New Zealand. It shows that a similar mode of mounting is practiced by the Maories, the bowlder being secured in 2 the crotch by means of thongs. The pursuit pe. 19 stone maul, of Alaska.—Naof similar examples leads usa devious dance. ROHR LATLLD We find that the Gran Chaco Indians, of South America, havea peculiar method of embedding a cylindrical stone in a club so that it may project
er Se ae SSS ——
Fic. 20.—Maori stone club, New Zealand.
like an axe blade. A hole is bored into a sapling of suitable size and the stone driven in. As the tree grows, the wood advances upon the stone and grips it firmly. The sapling is then cut and shaped.
Fic. 21.—Stone maul of Arickarees.
Fig. 21 is a stone maul of the Arickaree Indians of the Upper Missouri River.” It is a reddish, granite pebble of three and a half pounds
7 Page 72, and plate ix, Figs. 183, 184; pp. 73,74; and plate Vili, Figs. 180, iste, *Tbid., page 75,and pl. ix, Fig. 159. See “ Twenty-first Report of N. Y. State Cabinet,” pp. 31-36, pls. i, ii, iii.

<<<Page: 225>>>

weight. The withe is bent around it, occupying a circumferential depression, which is interrupted opposite the handle. The same kind of hammer was used by the native workmen formerly in the Lake Supe-
Fic. 22.—Stone mauls of Missouri Valley Indians.—National Museum.
rior copper mines. It is used by the Missouri Indians in driving stakes and tent-pegs. Fig. 22 shows two stone implements of the Sioux, the hereditary enemies of the tribe last mentioned. The x = Sie ty,
upper one isa rude grooved axe mounted ina hickory sapling, the two ends of which are brought together with raw-hide thongs
to form the handle. The lower figure is Q
. c IN
= a war-club with an egg-shaped limestone N
fp head and a handle of ash; the end of the N 2 ap bes N ss latter is ornamented with the tuft from S Cas ° 2 i} ea the tail of a buffalo. Between the two IN
figures. is a representation of the Roman sacrificial malleus, which, even in the time of the emperors, was employed in slaughtering the victims. Itseems tohave come down from times then ancient, the order of procedure admitting of no innovation, just as the knives of flint were used in ancient Egypt and among the Hebrews in performing ceremonial observances and sacrifices. Dr. Schliemann found hundreds of rude stone hammers in the hill we of Hissarlik.
Fic. 24.—War-club
Another mode of mounting alarge peb~ of Apaches, Arizona.—National.
2SnZ
“79 ea
SRT IEd FS:
Fic. 23.—A rickaree
atae gata: ble or wedge-shaped stone is by means — jfusewm. of a raw-hide covering to the stone and withe.
Fig. 23 shows an Arickaree weapon made in this manner: The granite pebble weighing 22 ounces is grooved circumferentially and a withe

<<<Page: 226>>>

bent around it and secured by raw-hide thongs next to the stone. Over the whole of the stone and handle, except the hammer face, a single piece of wet buffalo hide is stretched and sewed with sinew. When the hide shrinks in drying the whole forms a very firm job. The use of a similar tool in driving stakes and tent-pins has been mentioned, but there are many other purposes about an Indian camp, such as breaking bones and pounding pemmican, for which it is well adapted, not to mention the warlike uses. ‘
The poggamoggon of the Shoshones is a slungshot.
Fig. 24 shows yet another mode of mounting the stone. The pebble and the withe are covered with the tail skin of a buffalo, the tuft of hair remaining. Itresembles the slungshot used nearer home, or the stone in a stocking foot, said to be a favorite with the gentler sex in some places.
Hammer-axes of stone and horn, bored for the helve, are to be found in many museums. See Nilson. *°
We will now examine the throwing weapons; premising that neither law nor custom prevents the hurling of some already described. The Fijian among the abundance of his clubs has one specially for throwing ; it is knobbed at the end like the Kafir keerie and is worn in the girdle, sometimes in pairs like pistols. Fig. 25is the throwing-stick of Uganda
Fic. 25.—Throwing-stick of Uganda, Africa.—Egyptian Exhibit.
brought by Capt. Long (Bey) from his expedition south of Khartoom. It is three feet long, has a spear-shaped head, and is hurled with a whirling motion somewhat in the manner of the Australian boomerang, but without the peculiar erratic flight of the latter.
The curved throwing-stick was also noticed by Sir Samuel Baker in Abyssinia, and is common among the negroes as far west as Lake Tsad. The Ls-sellem of the desert*! is like the curved sticks of the ancient Egyptians” and closely resembles the middle stick in Fig. 28.
The trumbash or throwing-stick of the Niam-niams of the Upper Nile * is a fiat projectile used for killing birds or hares, and is carried inside the shield. The war weapon when made of iron is called kulbeda, and has three projecting limbs with pointed prongs and sharp edges, the longer blade at right angles to the grip, which is guarded by the shortest prong of the three. This wicked weapon is spun about its axis and
30 “Stone Age” Pl. viii, Figs. 168-179.
3! Smith’s ‘‘ Aborigines of Victoria,” Discussion on, pp. 321 et seq., vol. i. ® Thid (note passim), i, 299. 5
83 Schweinfurth.
S. Mis. 54

<<<Page: 227>>>

has a movement of translation in a horizontal plane. It is also a hacking hand-to-hand weapon. Somewhat similar weapons with two blades are found in upper Sennaar and Central Soudan, and are used by the Fans. The keerie or knobbed throwing-stick of the Kafirs has been already described. The lissan is the curved throwing-stick of another
Fic. 26.—Niam-niam hurling-weapons (trumbash).
African tribe; the iron hungamunga* of the Tibbus and of Darfur is also a hurling weapon. *
It would be singular, indeed, if a cudgel for throwing at game were ~ found in but one part of the world, and at but one period; but the discovery of the Australian boomerang, the most curious of its class, has directed attention to what might otherwise have been passed over as unimportant. The Egyptian and Assyrian monuments have been consulted, and in each case the curved stick has been noticed in the hands of bird-catchers or hunters. An ancient throwing-stick about eighteen inches long is in the Abbott Egyptian collection of the New York Historical Society. A short, crooked stick (pedum) was used by the Romans to throw at hares, and centaurs are represented with a short pedum (A%yw3020r) in the other.
In coming to Australia we reach a people living in an almost primitive condition, so low, ill-formed, and ignorant that their name has become a synonym for imbecility. Here, however, the throwing-stick has attained its highest development. The maximum of improvement has
*Tllustrated in the discussion on the boomerang. Smith, “ Abor. Victoria,” 321 et seq.
® Tyler’s ‘‘ Early History of Mankind,” 175-6. See also paper by Ferguson in Trans. R. I. A. Dublin, 1843, vol. xix. Paper by W. Cooke Taylor. The Nat. Hist. Soc. London, 1840, vol. i, page 205 ; Eyre, vol. ii, p. 308; Klemm, C. G. vol. i, p. 316, plate vii.

<<<Page: 228>>>

not, however, been reached by the natives of all parts of this island, which is almost as large as the United States and Territories. The boomerang (Fig. 27), used with such singular dexterity by the “ black
Fic. 27.—Boomerangs of New South Wales.
fellows” of New South Wales, is almost unknown to those of the colony of South Australia, which, by the bye, is not the most southerly portion of the island, that position being occupied by the thriving colony of Victoria. The boomerang is, however, used in Western Australia, where itis called a ky-lie. This is a true return-boomerang.® Even in the districts where the boomerang is used there are all grades of throwingsticks, three of which of different forms were in the New South Wales exhibit, and are shown in Fig. 28. The upper one is carved with raised serpentine figures, the stick being painted red in the intervals. With these weapons the natives give a direct blow, a whirling blow, or a ricochet upward-rebounding blow.
The boomerang is made of the wood of the blue gum (Hucalyptus glob-
ai LIL FFFFIICN LE OECTA ATT LEM ig meee ee a = LENT III Ee ag
Fic. 28.—Australian throwing-sticks, Victoria.
ulus), or sometimes from the iron-bark of the she-oak, and is of flatted curved shape, convex on the upper surface and flat below, always thickest in the middle, from which it is scraped away towards both edges, which are tolerably sharp, especially the outer one. Boomerangs vary much in shape, but do not depart from the characteristics mentioned. They differ in their curves, lengths, widths, taper, and weight.
8 Aborigines of Victoria, vol. i, 336, Fig. 140.

<<<Page: 229>>>

A good specimen may be 33 inches from tip to tip measured along the curve, 2 inches wide, and weigh 12 ounces. There are several ways of throwing the boomerang so as to make it execute its peculiar evolutions. In throwing it, the native grasps it by the handle end, which has some notches upon it, and holds the flat side downward; then balancing it a moment in his hand, and making a few quick steps forward, he launches it with a sharp fling, bringing his hand back so as to make it revolve in the plane of its curve with great rapidity. The peculiarity of the boomerang is in what may be considered its erratic flight. Thrown so as to strike the ground 40 yards in advance of the thrower, it rebounds, deseribes a high cireular backward course, and falls behind the thrower. Thrown high in the air it mounts to a great height, circles backward until its force is expended, and then drops dead at a point behind the thrower. It isalso thrown, so as at a given distance to make its rebound in other than an upward circular direction, and curve its flight around an object so as to strike something behind the latter. This is merely an effort of skill. The boomerang is thrown against the wind; and, though it is easy enough to hurl it, it is very difficult to make it perform at command: all the peculiar evolutions which distinguish it. It is roughly made, so far as mere finish is concerned; but the work upon it in adjusting the curves is most scrupulously and patiently performed by the natives, some of whom never acquire proficiency, while others become celebrated for their skill in the manufacture of the weapon. Like all instruments which have attained something like perfection, the difference between the best and poorest is greater than in the case of some other tools where a more general level of excellence is preserved.
The subject of the boomerang has been learnedly and carefully considered in R. Brough Smith’s “Aborigines of Victoria.”** The discussion has elicited the fact that some throwing-sticks move with a spinning or whirling motion, and even pursue a curved path, as a billiard or baseball player can curve the trajectory by imparting rotation to the ball. None of the impiements, however, described by Col. Lane Fox (British Association, 1872), or referred to in Mr. Ferguson’s learned paper before the Royal Irish Academy in 1838, are fairly comparable to the Australian weapon. It must also be remarked that the distinction between the play weapon and the war weapon is clearly drawn in the mind of the native, though the back-return boomerang cannot always be distinguished from the war boomerang by a novice. The barnycet of the Yarra,” for instance, is a war weapon, and not a come-back; nor is it so much curved as the regular boomerang, wonguim.® A group of the various kinds is shown in Mr. Smith’s work, previously referred to.
From the straight round stick, knobbed stick, flat stick, eurved stick, edged curved stick (a wooden sword), through every degree of curvature up to the perfect boomerang, the series of Australian hurling Weapons occupies the whole ground. The most curiously-curved weapon,
7 Vol. i, p. 321, et seq. *8Idid., Fig. 96. Ibid, Fig. 95. Tbid., i, 315, Fig. 99.

<<<Page: 230>>>

which should not be omitted, is the quirriang-an-wun, impossible to explain without an illustration, and not shown in Philadelphia. it is a thin flake of wood, curiously twisted and curved.”!
Fig. 29 shows, for purposes of comparison, an Australian boomerang (a) from Murray River, and a curved throwing-stick (b) used by the Moqui and Shimmo Indians in killing rabbits. These throwing-sticks, though
Gh LAP Mere eam LET 7p
Fic. 29.—Boomerang and Moqui throwing-stick.
curved so as to resemble in one important respect the Australian weapon, cannot, like it, be made to describe the peculiar divergent curved course through the air. These sticks were formerly used by many of the Southern California tribes.
The kangaroo rat (weet-weet),” Fig. 30, of the Australians has been
OOD Ry CORY 5 RK Soo) EE ee mae
a0 Fa a ae OY Ca Oe OL OY OP Le A AP LS A FY OD PD
Fic. 30.—Kangaroo rat, South Australia.
sometimes spoken of as rather a toy than a weapon, but it is a dangerous missile. Its head is usually a piece of hard wood, of a conoidal or double conical shape, and its tail is a flexible handle a yard long. By this handle itis thrown; the native takes the rat by the tail and swings it back and forth several times, bending it almost double. Suddenly letting it fly by an underhand jerk, it glides hissing through the air, striking and rebounding like a flat stone skimming the surface of the water—the familiar “ducks and drakes ” of our childhood. It does not rise more than nine feet above the surface of the ground, and the distance it reaches depends upon the force of the projection and also upon the angleat whichit first strikes the surface of theearth. Ifthe trajectory be too high, if makes a number of high leaps and soon tires ; if too low, the force is soon expended in friction on the ground. The body with a trailing tail making flying leaps has much the appearance of a small
*' Thid.,i, 315, Fig. 315, ® Wood, ii, p. 41.

<<<Page: 231>>>

kangaroo, and is well named the kangaroo rat. The example illustrated is of wild buffalo horn, heated and pressed to shape.
The kangaroo rat described by R. Brough Smith is about 26 inches long, the tail being 21 inches and the head 4.5 inches.*
Something like the kangaroo rat of the Australians is a missile employed in a game of the Fijians. A reed four feet in length terminates in an ovoid piece of hard and heavy wood six inches long. It is held between the thumb and finger and thrown by an underhand jerk, so as to skim horizontally over the ground. A long smooth stretch of turf is kept in good order in the villages for this purpose. This suggests the pitching of quoits and horseshoes, curling stones, hockey, polo, and other ball games, which we merely suggest as we pass, Supposing them not to be distinctly savage, though some of them are athletic survivals of ancient barbaric exercises.
The chakra* or “ quoit weapon” of the Sikhs is savage enough to be worth a mention. It is an annular disk of thin steel with a sharp edge all round. It is whirled upon the fore-finger and then thrown, spinning as it flies, and is a formidable weapon when aimed at the face of an enemy, several being hurled in rapid succession and with great force. They can also give it a ricochet flight.
A similar weapon has been brought from Guatemala by M. Boursier, the French Consul. It is disk-shaped, very sharp on the edges, and about 6 inches in diameter. Hurling-disks have been found also in Brittany and Central France.
The Peruvian hurling-disk is of diorite with a central opening 1 inch in diameter and 10 circumferential teeth 2 inches long. It is thrown by aid of a thong like the bolus. The Mexicans have a similar weapon and the Australians a crude affair of the same general idea.
From this cutting disk whirled by the finger we reach by a single step the simple pebble whichis hurled by hand. We began with astick, and after considering the club simple and compound, and the various forms of throwing clubs, have come to simple missiles—the pebble or small bowlder. Some tribes, however, are not content with the stones of the brook, but shape the projectile; the Tahitians,“ for instance, make oval balls of stalagmite, which they hurl by hand with force and accuracy, not using a sling. The Fuegians, although very skillful with the sling, are adepts at hurling stones by hand.
Incendiary balls were used by the Nervii, who fired the camp of Czesar, and the balls of charcoal kneaded with clay, and found in the lacustrine village remains in Switzerland, are believed to have been for the same purpose. The arrow with a lighted tow torch is commonly noticed
among the ancients, and is found in all parts of the world where the bow and arrow survive.
#8 Aborigines of Australia, i, Fig. 170, p. 352. “Wood, ii, p. 285. 46 Wood, i. 4° Louvre collection. 47 Wood, ii.

<<<Page: 232>>>

The subject here naturally diverges and takes two separate paths. The projectile is loose and is hurled by a stick or a sling; or it is attached to a string which flies with it. We shall consider these separately and in the order stated.
The sling is an unimpressive object when hung up among a thousand other things in a collection, and how many were overlooked by the writer at the Centennial it is not possible to say. The example, Fig. 31, was in the National Museum exhibit in the Government Building, having been obtained from the Navajoes of New Mexico. Slings are rarely used among this people at present, except by boys. They are, however, mentioned in the old account of the “Journey to the Seven Cities of Cibola.” There is no doubt about the antiquity of the device. It is mentioned frequently in the Hebrew writings, and is shown on the Egyptian and Assyrian monuments.” The Roman sling was named from its funda or purse which contained the projectile. Besides its ordinary use for hurling stones, leaden balls (glandes) were used; these were ellipsoidal plummets, often with inscriptions upon them, as ‘“ FIR,” for firmiter, “throw steadily”; Grecian bullets also, marked with the figure of a thunderbolt, or the inscription defa:, My Pyare “take this,” have been found. Schliemann” recovered sewn. from the excavations at Hissarlik sling-bullets of loadstone, copper, alabaster, and diorite. The fustibolus was a four-foot pole, which had a sling attached in the center, enabling both hands to be used in throwing.
The sling is not so universal a weapon that a statement of the countries where it is used becomes a mere geographical recitation. The Javan sling *! (bandring) is noticed by Sir Stamford Raffles. The Fijians, as already stated, excelinitsuse. Thesling of the Sandwich Islanders” is a double thong with a stone receptacle of plaited sinnet. The stones are egg-shaped and ground for the purpose. Another form of Hawaiian sling has an oval stone with a circumferential groove, and is hurled by a cord passed around it and secured by a sailor’s half-hitch so as to be released when the thong is jerked back to discharge the stone. A similar mode of hurling the spear is found in South America. The Marquesas Islanders*’ use slings of plaited grass, as much as five feet in length, and hurl stones of considerable size. The natives of New Caledonia have a sling (wendat) which is a double thong with a purse in the middle made of two parallel cords. The stones are a hard kind of steatite ground to an oval shape and polished. They are carried in a net at the
49 Layard’s Nineveh, Pls. vi, vii, ii, 263. Xenophon’s Anabasis, lib. ili, ¢. 3.
50 Schliemann’s ‘‘ Troy and its Remains,” 101. Nos. 66-7-8.
51° Java,” Ato, Pl. iv, opp. p. 296, vol. 1; Fig. 22:
52 Wood, ii, p. 434. 53 Thid., ii, p. 390. 54 Tbid., ii, p. 205.

<<<Page: 233>>>

the New Caledonian sling-stones are shaped like two spherical segments, joined at their bases, giving a sharp circumferential ridge. The same form is found in New Zealand and in the stone age missiles of Sweden.
Wooden slings and ribbon slings were used by the ancient inhabitants of Sweden, and slings of bast are in the museums of Lund and Stockholm.® Slings of plaited flax are among the lacustrine remains of Neufchatel.”
The Solomon Islanders also use slings. The Fuegians®” excel in the. use of the sling, as well as of the bow and arrow and spear. The sling has a pocket of seal or guanaco skin and two thongs three feet in length of twisted sinews. The natives throw with great force and accuracy.
Pliny ascribes the invention of the sling to the Pheenicians. He always had a guess to make; sometimes a very wild one. The Balearic Islanders* were celebrated for their expertness in its use. The slingers of the Greek and Roman armies were considered an inferior class of warriors, the sling being but an auxiliary weapon.
Another mode of slinging is by means of a stick thrust through a perforated stone and whirled so as to discharge the missile when it has attained a maximum centrifugal motion.
Fig. 32 shows two throwing-stones from Peru, adapted to be slung by a stick which is thrust into the hole. The Peruvians were very expert in the use of the sling.’ Whorls of star shape were found in great quantities by Schliemann in the excavations at Hissarlik.*® Although they may be considered spindle whorls, it is altogether probable, so great was their number, that they were ammunition. Disk-shaped and cylindrical throwing-stotes perforated for the stick are found among the remains of the Lake Dwellers.” The Fijians have a rough game of jerking stones at each other with elastic bamboo.*!
Numerous stones fashioned into shapes, and many of them with cireumferential grooves, are to be found in European and American collections, labelled plummets (net-sinkers), sling-stones, &c., according to the fancy or opinion of the discoverer or owner. The same may be said of American perforated stones which may be plummets or gorgets. There is a tendency to give a warlike signification to such finds recovered in the soil, in mounds or in graves. The civil uses of these objects were probably much more frequent than the warlike; as the search for food is a
Fic. 32.—Throwina-stones, Peru.
55 Sven Nilson ‘On the Stone Age.” Ed. by Sir John Lubbock, pl. v, pp. 49, 53. 56 Morlot in Smithsonian Report, 1863, p. 377. 57 Wood, ii, p. 517. 578 Cxesar’s Comm., li, 1. 53 Prescott’s ‘‘ Conquest of Peru,” i, 72. “Troy and its Remains,” No. 444, Pl. xl.
% “ Culturgeschichte,” Taf. 2, Figs. 60-63. 61 Wood, ii.

<<<Page: 234>>>

SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 233 more constant occupation than war. (Cf. Sven Nilson, edited by Sir John Lubbock, London, 1868.)
We now pursue the other branch of the section, in which the ball remains attached to the cord by means of which it is projected. The sim-. plest form of this is the single stone or metallic ball sewed up in rawhide and attached to the end of a thong a yard long. This, the bolas perdida of the Spaniards, is whirled rapidly around the head and then launched at the enemy or the game. <A similar ball at the end of a shorter thong is used as a slung-shot.
The bolas® of South America consists of two or three balls at the ends of as many raw-hide thongs, about nine feet long, which are tied together. The bolas is swung around the head of the rider, the junction of the thongs being in his hand and the balls flying in a cluster. As soon as they are launched at the game, the balls fly apart by their centrifugal force, and, still lying round, have amovement of translation in the direction of their projection. As soon as a thong strikes the object, the balls coil around it in contrary directions, binding and entangling it according to the intention of the thrower. This isnot
too much to say, for the Patagonian will bind the rider to the
se SS
5 I) horse, or tie the legs i
ofan animal together Hy
or tothe body at will. Ny
, ; Stones of ovoid s
Fic. 83.—Bolas of Paraguay, Argentine S Ht Confederahon. form made of traNi
chytic tufa and perforated for raw-hide straps are Fs
used by the California Indians.
Figs. 33 and 34 show the bolas exhibited at the Centennial by the Argentine Republic. They eonsist of stones or balls of clay in raw-hide pockets at the ends of twisted thongs of raw-hide. The specimens differ much in weight, from one-quar5... ete Oh argentine ter of a pound to one and a half pounds, and in cee size from one and a quarter inches to three inches in diameter. They are sewed up in their envelopes, and in one case openings are made to expose the bright red color of a peculiar stone of the country. It is the duty of
®Sven Nilson, Pl. ix, Fig. 216; Pl. ii, Fig. 31-35. 63 Page’s ‘‘La Plata,” 112.

<<<Page: 235>>>

the women to cut and grind these stones, but in some cases iron or even copper balls are used, the metal being preferred when attainable on account of its being smaller for a given weight. There is some variation in the arrangement also: (somai) two bolas at the end of 9-feet thongs ; (achico) three bolas, one on a rather longer thong; or one of the thongs has attached to its mid-length a pair of balls on the end of three-foot thongs. The range of the bolas is from 30 to 40 yards. The natives, when in danger, wear several cuirasses of stiff raw-hide as a guard against them, the armor being put on like a poncho—over the head, which is thrust through a slit in the hide. The helmet is of double bull-hide. The bolas is used throughout the Argentine Republic, by the Gran Chaco Indians of La Plata, the Araucanians (called by them laqui), aud the Patagonians; being, in a large portion of the territory mentioned, the principal means of capturing wild animals. The guanaco, a species of llama about the size of a deer, is the main dependence for food and clothing of the Patagonians.** See Muster’s account of the Tehuelche Indians.
Passing at one bound to the other extremity of the American Continent, we find the Eskimo® in possession of the same weapon, but on a smaller scale, as befits the game it is intended to capture. It consists of eight or nine strings, about thirty inches long, and fastened together, their free ends being attached to little weights like plumb-bobs, made of bone, walrus-tooth, or stone. The cords are of twisted sinews or intestines. The balls are whirled around the head two or three times and then sent flying through the air like a large cobweb, lappiug with surprising quickness around any object which may be struck by the eords. It is used principally in catching birds.
The lasso was shown in the exhibit of the Argentine Confederation, in the main building. It is a rope 40 feet long, made of raw-hide strips plaited into a round rope, excepting a few feet at the noose end, which is plaited square and is fastened around an iron ring, through which the lasso passes to form the noose. The Araucanians use a lasso of silkgrass fiber from the leaves of dn agave. It has no ring for the noose, but a loop of the agave fiber covered with leather. In using the lasso, the ring is taken in the left hand and a noose six feetin length is made; the right hand then grasping the cord and the ring, the rider takes another six feet in his hand and whirls the noose around his head until it becomes circular, when he hurls it at the object, throwing after it the remainder of the rope, which hangs in coils on his left arm. As it passes through the air the noose becomes smaller, so that the diameter of the noose is graduated to the size of the object it is intended to capture. It is not a little singular that this form of lasso, a noose running
in a metallic ring, was a weapon in the armies of the former Singhalese monareh.™
“64 Wood, ii, p. 582. 6 “At Home with the Patagonians,” p. 166. 6 Wood, ii., p. 711. 6 Tennent’s ‘ Ceylon,” i, 499.

<<<Page: 236>>>

A strangling noose, a few feet long, with a bone or wooden pointed stick at one end and a worked eye at the other, is used by the Australian to garrote a sleeping enemy. Passing the noose over the head and thrusting the skewer through the loop, he throttles his victim, who is powerless to make a noise, and, throwing him over his shoulder, carries him from the camp.®
If the name of a tool is to be determined by its shape and mode of usage, the first axe was of wood. The Australian department showed several bludgeons, the enlarged, flattened ends of which had sharp edges. Being of blue gum (HLucalyptus globulus), a hard heavy wood, they are efficient weapons in war or in hunting, though not suitable for felling timber. They are shown at a b,in Fig. 35; ¢ d are from New Zealand, and é is from the Haidah Indians of Bella-Bella, British Columbia. _
The transition from one } material to another may be traced in many countries in yet-existing tools; the change is one of the most interesting problems of the archaist and ethnologist, and it is recognized in a Chinese tradition: ‘* Fuhi made weapons; these were of wood; those of Shinnung were of stone; then Chi-yu made _ metallic ones.”
After the club or slungstone, in which a bowlder is mounted on a withe, or bound to a stick, or slung at theend of arawFie. 35.—Wooden axes, from Australia, New Zealand, and British hide thong, comes an atene tempt to give a cutting edge to the tool. It need not be merely assumed, as it is capable of demonstration, that the mounting of unwrought spalls of stone preceded the fashioning of stone axes. The
Xi tis Zp
Oo A DF A o AAI Lf
area on
ee ees
OSLLFA teas tL
a 5 es
SSS SS Teng HOU
"7 — =| Seal = Sse tt & stots S .
Sarees
a aw re ee a
Se en
6 Smith’s ‘‘ Aborigines of Victoria,” i, 351, Fig. 169.

<<<Page: 237>>>

New South Wales exhibit showed a collection of spalls of greenstone and sandstone obtained by the natives by merely dashing bowlders together and picking up the pieces which most nearly approximated the desired form. Those shown in the collection were of sandstone, con-
peer esS
=< a AT OS A Bos. Sa euett tonsa ete 3 SF ME 4179 Lee TS
Fic. 36.—Stone spalls for axes, Clarence River, New South Wales.
glomerate, slate, basalt, and trachyte. Such axes, when helved, are used by the natives in ascending and for felling trees, cutting firewood, in war and the chase, and for cutting themselves to embellish their bodies with cicatrized wounds.
In many countries are to be found famous localities yielding stones for axes. In Nan-hin-fu, in the province of Kwantong, in Southern China,® they find in the mountains a heavy stone, which furnishes materials for cutting-tools for the region around. Obsidian is used in Mexico, Khamschatka,” and elsewhere.
The stone axes and adzes of the Philadelphia Exhibition may be considered together. The difference in the tools is in the relation of the cutting edge to the handle. In the axe the line of the edge is in the plane of the handle. In the adze the edge is across the plane of its sweep. The examples afforded us may be classed in two divisions: first, stone and shell; second, metal. The subdivision which will be most useful will be as to the four methods of mounting the axe-head in or on the handle; and we have instances of each in the stone axes, and of three out of the four in the metallic axes, and this without going outside of the crude implements shown in Philadelphia.
The four modes of mounting or helving an axe are:
1. By winding a withe around it.
2. By lashing it to a seat on the handle.
3. By passing the tang through a hole in the handle.
4, By passing the helve through a hole in the head.
6 Grosier, ‘‘De la Chine,” Paris, 1818, i, 191. 7 7” Erman, ‘‘[eise,” iii, 453.

<<<Page: 238>>>

Before adducing examples of each of these methods, we may simply notice the stone hatchet from New Zealand, which is used independently of a handle, and is a hand-to-hand weapon, like some of the merais or patupdtus, shown in a previous article, and considered characterJYAA5R istic of the Maori race. d
While some of the methods of securing the axe-head to the helve are considered indicative of certain tribes and peoples, it cannot be said that any peculiar mode is found at a certain place or in such a tribe and nowhere else. In fact, it may be stated that among the various tribes of North American Indians all the modes cited may be found, and specimens from the lacustrine dwellings, to be seen in the museums of Europe and America, show that all the modes stated were in use among the early inhabitants of Europe. ;
Fig. 38 shows three native stone axes: a from Victoria, ) from South Australia, and ¢ from the Sioux country of the Missourt Valley. They agree in the mode of fastening the head to the handle, a withe being bentaround a depression in the stone and secured by lashings ; these will depend upon the material at hand. In the case of the stone axe (mogo) a, from Victoria, the head is a chipped greenstone 2 by 4 inches, and is mounted ina withe with moss and “blackboy gum.” The weapon (a) is far in advance of the art of the present natives, who use the rudest stone axes, mere spails, as just described, and shown in Fig. 36. The natives say that this mogo was made by a people who preceded them and of whom they have no knowledge. It need not on that account be necessarily very old, but it seems that it was somewhat of a local curiosity to the particular tribe in which it was found.
The kadjo, mo-go, and other stone tomahawks of Australia are well delineated and described in a careful treatise just published by R.
Fic. 37.—Maori stone hatchet, New Zealand.
Fic. 38.—Stone axes of Australia and America.

<<<Page: 239>>>

Brough Smith.” They are of granite, quartz, &c., one edge chipped sharp, a poll left relatively flat; all adapted to be handled with withes, unground, and. secured by gum.
In New South Wales the natives take for the handle the flowering stem of the waratah or native tulip, or the vine of pepperoma, or they carefully split the small water gum of the streams, and, by the action of fire, make the piece pliant and wrap it like a withe around the stone axe-head. They next take the resinous and brittle gum of the grasstree (Xanthorhaa), which they knead and toughen by the fire process. With the heated gum they cover the equator of the stone and take around it one or two turns of the pliant withe, securing its junction with a thong of the bark of the coorajong tree; they then fill that part of the handle secured around the stone with the melted gum, and the weapon isready for duty in afew hours. By the aid of this instrument the natives chop notches for the toes in ascending high trees, cut out the opossum, or tap the trees for honey ; with it they also fashion waddies, boomerangs, and other wooden implements, and crack the bones of animals for the marrow. In some portions of the island, smews from the tail of the kangaroo do duty as lashings. The ani are steeped in hot water, pounded between stones to separate them into filaments, and, while yet pliable, they are wrapped around the stone and the handle; in drying they shrink and hold the objects together with great firmness. The lashing is then covered with the “ black-boy gum” of the grass-tree.
The celt or stone axe is one of the most common objects in museums, and generally shows its adaptation to a withe handle.” In the excavations at Hissarlik, at a depth of from 23 to 33 feet below the present surface, Dr. Schliemann recovered well-made axes of diorite and of hard and semi-transparent greenstone.” One of these was fractured at the eye, but they were generally adapted for withe handles. So common is the celt that it has entered into the superstitions of various nations, and is supposed to be a “thunder stone” and to have fallen from the sky. This idea is prevalent in China, England, India, Brittany, Finland, Japan, Brazil, Madagascar, and elsewhere.
Axes of the second class, lashed to a seat on the handle, had numerous representations at the Exhibition. Fig. 39 is a stone designed to be mounted as an adze, and Fig. 40 shows a greenstone blade lashed to a handle formed of a limb with a portion of the adjacent trunk. The fastening is evidently but a substitute for the original elaborate lashing, which had fallen off. Some of the Maori adzes are of green jade. Another stone, locally known as toke, is also used, but is much inferior to the former in quality and appearance. Cf. black basalt adzes found i in
nm “Aborigines of Victoria,” ‘Melbourne, 1878, i, pp. 359-380. Figs. 175-198. ” Dr. Abbott, in Smithsonian Report, 1875. Figs. 11, 19.
® Schliemann’s “ Troy and its Remains,” p. 21, No. 2; p. 94, No. 56.
™ Tylor’s “ Early History of Mankind,” pp. 208, 210-211, 222-227.

<<<Page: 240>>>

Scania, Sweden,” and at Nootka Sound; also, the flint axes of Scandinavia, which are never bored, but are rough chipped and unground.® Axes of diorite, greenstone, and basalt have sometimes holes bored through, by which to suspend them.
Fig.4lisastoneadze ‘@ (koipele ka ino) from Fic. 39.—Stone adze (unmounted), New Zealand.
the Sandwich Islands; it is nine inches long. Fig. 42 is a shell adze from a shell heap on Saint John’s River, Florida. The adze of the Pelew Islanders” is made of the shell of the giant clam. Shell is used as a
Fic. 40.—Maori adze, New Zealand.
material for cutting instruments in many places where stone and metal are rare ; such as were formerly some of the West Indies and some islands of Polynesia and Oceanica. The Pelew Island implement may be turned
Fic. 41.—Stone adze, Sandwich Islands. Fic. 42.—Shell adze, Saint John’s River, Florida.
in the head so as to be used as an axe or anadze. The same adaptability may be found in an iron axe-adze of the Dyak of Borneo. ‘The war axe
7 Nilson’s ‘‘ Stone Age,” Pl. vii, Figs. 147, 150, and page 62. 76 Tbid., p. 64, and Pl. vii, Fig. 153. 7 Wood’s ‘‘ Natural History of Man,” ii, p. 450.

<<<Page: 241>>>

of the Fijians is shown in Fig. 43. It was exhibited in the Main Building. Its stone head is carefully lashed with braided sinnet to an elaborately carved wooden handle.
The stone adzes of the Marquesas are most accurately shaped and finished,especially those of a ceremo-
Amnon bod end ord ark a Pein alone lean dE acid bl rece) The handles of
such are fairly honeycombed with carvings, in such a manner that a central handle appears to be sur-
Fic. 43.—Fiji war axe. rounded by a sort of filigree or incrustation of geometrical work. The lashings of plaited coir (sinnet) are very elaborate and carefully laid. Specimens obtained by the Wilkes Expedition are in the National Museum of Washington, DEG.
The stone adze (Fig. 44) of the Makah Indians of Puget’s Sound, California, shows an observation of the tools of the white man. The handle is evidently copied from that of a hand-
Fia. 44.— Stone udze, Puget’s Sound. Fic. 45.—Eskimo ice-pick, Nunivak Island. saw which the native mechanic had seen and admired. The use of the stone and the method of lashing are, however, quite characteristic. Fig. 45 is an ice-pick of walrus ivory, lashed to a handle of pine. It is from
the Magemut Eskimo of Nunivak
Island. Fig. 46is an Eskimo icepick made from a whale’s rib, lashed with raw-hide thongs to a massive yew-wood handle. These picks are used for breaking the crust of snow and in keeping the seal-holes open. The specimen is from Anderson River, British America. The example (Fig. 47) shows another variation in the Ba Eee eee COL ene mode of fastening. Like the former, it is made from a whale’s rib, and is lashed with raw-hide thongs

<<<Page: 242>>>

te a pine handle. It is from the chook chees ( Tschuck-tschis) of Northeast Siberia. The mode of fastening is much like that of the old Egyptian noes, as shown in Wilkinson’s works.
Fic. 47.—Ice-pick and skin-dresser, Siberia. Fi. 48.—Stone adze, British Columbia.
Fig. 48 is the last illustration we shall offer of this mode of attaching the bit or blade to the handle of wood. It is a small adze of argillite lashed with twisted sinews to a handle formed of a forked branch. Such implements were used in smoothing the insides of canoes. The main stem was grasped by the left hand, and the smaller one by the right. Itis from the Haidah Indians of Bella-Bella, British Columbia.
We reach the third class of our first division and notice the single instance in the Philadelphia Exhibition in which a modern stone axe was inserted through a hole in the handle. This has been deemed the characteristic African method, and with much reason, though instances of its adoption are found elsewhere ; the New Caledonians, for instance, mount their axes like the Africans, putting the tang of the bit through a perforated knob on the end of the handle. As almost all the African tribes use iron, smelted and worked by native smiths, the instances of the African method will occur more frequently in the second division of the subject, which treats of metal.
The modern axe of greenstone (Fig. 49) is used in Mozambique, a Portuguese colony in Eastern Africa. The bit is 8 inches long,and is lashed with strips of raw-hide to a wooden handle, which is carved at the hand-hold. The lashing is covered with cowrie-shells, which form in part the currency of the natives; they answer, we may suppose, the same purpose as the gold mounting of a dress-sword. The inhabitants, though well ac-
S. Mis, 54—esm—16
Ss >: Sa Sass SSS I eee, i
os: —a.
Fic. 49.—Stone axe of Mozambique.

<<<Page: 243>>>

quainted with metal, retain old habits, and among them the use of stone implements, in ceremonial uses perhaps, rather than in the business of life. That stone should linger after the advent of metal is not surprising when we reflect that the stone battle-axe was used by many of the Anglo-Saxons at Hastings, and some of the Germans were armed with it at so late a period as the ‘‘ Thirty Years’ War.”
Fig. 50 shows one of the articles generally catalogued SS as a “spade-like implement.” It was possibly an axe SS adapted to pass through the handle and be secured by a lashing of sinew or raw-hide.
Fig. 51 shows five ancient implements obtained in
Fic. 50.—Stone axe. various parts of the United States, from mounds and elsewhere; a, b, and d are from Louisiana; eis from Iowa; ¢ not noted. The three last examples are doubleheaded ceremonial axes, and do not materially differ from examples in the figure following, excepting in not being perforated for the handle. q The frequency of the omission in/ dicates that the two methods of mounting were simultaneously employed.
SO ee
This brings us tothe fourth class— perforated axes, which are considered by Sir John Lubbock as probably characteristic of the early metallic period in Europe. ®
It was long thought that the perforation of the axe-head did not occur until the implement came to bemade of metal. It istruethatthe labor of boring in stone without the aid of metal and the weakening of so frangible a material might exclude that mode of mounting; but it must be recollected that time is of no moment to a savage, never haying read Solomon or Dr. Watts, and
Fic. 51.—Aaes from Indian mounds, éc. not taking lessons from insects— which are simply a nuisance and point no moral in Africa.
The examples of perforated stone axes at’ Philadelphia (Fig. 52) were from various parts of the United States, and were shown in the Na-
78 Lubbock’s Introduction to Nilson’s ‘Stone Age,” xxix.

<<<Page: 244>>>

tional Museum in the Government Building. They are ancient and are generally supposed to be of a ceremonial character. It was either net noted or was not observed where a was from; b, d, and g were from Wisconsin; ¢ from New Jersey; e from Connecticut; h from Pennsylvania. So the practice of making the perforated bipennis in stone was widely spread. It may be mentioned that the hole in h, Fig. 52, is only rudimentary. A fine selection of perforated axe-heads from Denmark is in the Peabody Museum, Cam-
TT Ray [eee
J Fic. 52.—Double-bitted perforated axes.
bridge, and a great many more at St. Germain, France, and in the mn-
-seumof Geneva, Switzerland. This object is called a “banner stone” in ' Abbott’s article on the Stone Age in New Jersey”; compare also Nilson’s “ Stone Age.”
The bipennis, or double-bitted axe, was the weapon of the female war‘riors of Scythian race known as Amazons. It was also known in Assyria. Its antiquity may also be assumed from its being the sacrificial axe of the Roman priesthood: Dolabra pontificalis. The old scena or sacena of the Latins had two cutting edges, large and small, the former securis ; the latter dolabra. It may have been copied from the agricultural axe dolabra, which was something like our mattock, with an axe edge and a pick on the respective ends of the head, and was used in cutting wood and clearing land of bushes and grubs. The dolabella was the small axe or bill hook. The sacrificial malleus was a round ball perforated for a handle, and it also seems to indicate the long-sustaineduse of very primitive forms of weapons and implements for ceremonial! purposes.
Many copper battle-axes were recovered by Schliemann from a depth of 28 feet in the ruins of Hissarlik. *! ee ar, (ah MWsinitheduian Bepery 1c76C "Se.
®0Nilson, Pl. viii, Fig. 173 and p. 71. 81“ Troy and its Remains.”

<<<Page: 245>>>

We have now reached the second division of axes, those of metal. In this section we ean searcely preserve the quadripartite subdivisions of the stone group. The collection, however, furnished good specimens of crude workmanship in two classes of axes— those which are lashed to a seat on a handle and those which perforate the handle.
The examples of those which are lashed to a , Seat on the handle are, singularly enough, tools in which iron blades obtained from the whites have been attached to handles in the manner previously adopted with stone tools. Fig. 53 shows two adzes of the Anderson River Eskimo, the handles of which have been ingeniously fashioned to fit the hand. The blades are both made of hatchet heads, in one case (a) the eye is made use of in lashing the handle to the iron; in the other case (b) the eyé has been ground away, and it is secured to the handle by thongs in the manner of a stone celt. The tools indicate both the inveterate habit of mounting and also the preference for the adze method of using.
The Greenlander’s adze (Fig. 54), shown in the Danish department of the Main Building, is made of a common 23-inch chisel strapped by a seal-skin thong to a beech wood handle about a : foot long. Fig. 55 is asmall hand
le adze or chisel with a bone handle. ~ ta) ——~ The blade was originally a hatchet —— = of which the eye has been split and—— @& piece removed. The handle shows an imitation of a saw-handle. It is from the Haidah Indians of Bella-Bella, British Columbia.
The Javan axes” are mounted in different ways; two kinds, known respectively as petel and wadung, are chisel-shaped tools lashed to stocks whose natural growth as a fork facilitates that method; another, called
® Rafiles “Java,” 4to, i, 174, Figs. 1, 2, 4.
Fic. 53.—Hskimo adzes.
Fic. 54.—Greenlanders’ adze.
Fic. 55.—Indian adze, Haidahs, British Columbia.

<<<Page: 246>>>

sang luk, has an eye for the helve in the manner next in order to be considered.
The Javan battle-axe (kudi tranchang), formerly a principal weapon of Java, * is not now much used, and is suprisingly like a freakish weapon used by the natives of Central Africa.
The Japanese axe is a compromise, its bent tang being held by a ring which slips on the handle. ‘
Africa furnishes us with the greatest variety of the axes which perforate the handle. Beginning at the south, we find the Kafirs® in possession of an axe, but Fic. 56.— Japanese their principal
ae weapon is the assegat, a javelin made by their native blacksmiths. With the keerie or short club, shield, and assegais, a Zulu considers himself well furnished.
The Bechuana axe, Fig. 57, is a steel bit simply fastened by a tang in the enlarged wooden head. The term Bechuana may be used generally to include a number of tribes, embracing the Makololo,” who are among the most accomplished workers in metal on the continent.
The smaller axes in Fig. 57 are other patterns, made by the Bechuanas; and Fig. 58 is a still more fanciful one, shown in the Portuguese Colonies Department of the Agricultural Building. The head is of steel and the handle is in part wrapped with fine wire. The blade is peculiar in form and ornamentation, and has what we should consider arather insecure attachment to the helve. Fig. 59 is another axe of Angola, shown in the same collection; it has a curious = curved blade and a long “FIG. 59.—Aze of Angola. tang inserted in the usual African method into the wooden handle. |
The elephant axe of the Banyai,” of the Zambesi, was also snown in
® Rafiles “Java,” Ato, itp Pl. opp. p. 296, Fig. Fn
* Siebold’s ‘‘ Nippon,” vi, Pl. 6; also ii, Pl. 5 bis., Figs. 14,9, 15, 16, 13; also ii, Pl. 11, 13.
* Casalis’ ‘‘ Basutos,” 132. % Baines’ ‘‘South Africa,” 467. 87 Wood i, p. 404.
Fic. 57.—Bechuana axes, South Africa.
WES Sx
Fic. 58.—Battle-axe, Angola, Africa.

<<<Page: 247>>>

the group of Angola and Mozambique weapons, Fig. 60. It has a very long tang projecting entirely through the handle, and secured thereto by raw-hide lashing. One end has an axe-blade and the other a spear point. The handle is made by cutting off a limb of a convenient length, and also a small piece of the trunk at the insertion of the branch. A hole for the tang is then bored through the knotty wood, where the limb isas it were rooted into the body of the tree. The handle is then dressed to shape. The blade is sometimes three feet in length, and is carried over the shoulder. Itis used in ham-stringing the elephant. The hunters go in pairs, one carrying the axe while the other goes before the animal to distract his attention. The axeman comes up behind stealthily and severs one ham-string of the animal at a single blow. One form of the elephant axe was noticed to have a eurved handle and a stay-lashing at a point six inches distant from the socket. |
The Banyai of the Zambesi have also a convertible axe and adze. The knob of the handle has two slits at right angles, so that the tang of the blade may be optionally inserted either to bring the edge in line with the sweep of the tool, as with the axe, or transversely, as with the adze. Curiously enough the Water Dyaks, of Borneo, have a chipping tool of the same kind used in boat-building.* It has an iron blade, wooden
Fic. 60.—Elephant ace of the Banyai, Zambesi, Africa.
head, and ratan (Malay rétan) lashing. The blade has a square tang, -
and by taking it out of the socket, turning it one-quarter round, and inserting it again the blade is changed, in reference to the handle, from an axe to an adze, or vice versa.
Fic. 61.—Azes of Egypt, India, Mexico, and Yucatan.
The Djibba axe has two pointed prongs projecting lengthwise from the head to make it efficient in thrusting. The Monbuttoo axe,” following the universal African type, has its tang inserted through the thick end of a knobbed club.
"8 Wood, vol. ii, p. 453. _
® Schweinfurth’s “Atrica,” vol. ii, p. 112.

<<<Page: 248>>>

Fig. 61 shows that this system of inserting the blade in the handle has been practiced in far distant times and places. a b are ancient forms of Egyptian bronze axes.% c¢ dare ancient axes from the Sachi tope” at Bhilsa, in Central India. eis an axe shown on a Mexican monument. The obsidian or copper blade is inserted in the handle. f and g show the instrument known as mahquahuitl, a double-headed axe with obsidian
Fic. 62.—Aze of the Philippines.
flakes inserted in wooden handles. h shows a copper axe of Yucatan, the plate being inserted in a slitted handle. The battle-axe was the weapon of the Peruvian soldiery. Numerous Trojan battlegy axes of copper were found by Dr. Schliemann at Hissarlik.®*
The axe of the Philippines was shown in the Spanish Building. It has a_ peculiarly shaped head and along ferrule. The hand-stop on the helve was the only instance of the kind in the exhibition. Itis a sort of rudimentary guard, like a partial hilt on the two-handed helve. (Fig. 62.)
The jungle hook of the Singhalese (wal-dakat) and a chopping axe (proa)* are used for clearing brush and cutting trees. Even the poor Veddahs of the interior forests “have a little ax, which they stick in by their sides, to cut honey out of hollow trees.”*
Fig. 63 is a Dakotah Indian war-club (casse-téte) ornamented with carving and armed with a leaf-shaped steel point. The peasant of Brittany carries a knobbed stick resembling the Kafir knob-keerie. (Fig. 1.)
%” Kitto, vol. i, p. 507 ; “Duleth,” Denis
% Cunningham’s ‘ Bhilsa Tope,” pl. xv, Figs. 8, 9.
#2 Prescott’s “ Conquest of Peru,” vol. i, p. 72.
% Schliemann’s ‘‘ Troy and its Remains,” pp. 330, 331. %4 Knox’s ‘‘Ceylon,” pp. 273-4.
% I bid., p. 61.
Fic. 63.—Casse-téte, Dakotah.

<<<Page: 249>>>

It is called a casse-téte by the French of the neighboring departments, but pen-bas by the Bretons.® See also the marble knob for a stick, found by Dr. Schliemann at Uium.”
The same form is shown by Catlin to have been very common among the Blackfeet and other Indian tribes on the headwaters of the Missouri. An axe of Terradel Fuego, shown by Nilson, has a blade of iron inserted in the African manner in a wooden
Fic. 64.—Halberds, India and Norwey. stock which has been dressed by flint tools. Desor also shows hatchets of diorite, serpentine, and quartzite in sockets of buckhorn, which were mounted in a wooden handle by a
lateral hole oa aig = in the side
Z MS Sara! of the club. Fic. 65.— Norwegian
seat In another axes.
seivg| case the stone was inserted nea endwise in a horn socket which was pierced for the handle. In another case the stone in a horn handle had the position formerly Fic. 66.—Iron tomahawk, Dakotah. occupied by the brow antler.
Fig. 64 shows three forms of halberds, light axes on long handles: cis from Norway and belongs to the class with a tang driven into the handle; «b are Sowrah battle-axes from India, and belong to the last class of our list—the handle inserted through an eye in the head. To this also belong the Norwegian axes (Fig. 65) and the Arickaree iron tomahawk (lig. 66).
Sa =
Fo wa oe PAD OS SSS Se Se
> Scere Se
Les ores m3
Agora has LAYS
Res pass PARLS 252 ae
IlI.— KNIVES AND SWORDs.
The knife in its primitive form is a sharp flake of stone or obsidian, a sliver of bamboo or wood, ora shell with a sharpened edge. When the point is the specially engaged portion the weapon is a dagger. Many other crude materials furnish the hand-to-hand cutting or piercing weapons, such as the pointed horns of animals, the tail of the sting-ray,
% Trollope’s ‘‘Summer Tour in Brittany,” London, 1840, Pls. opp. pp. 125, 220, 296. “7 Schliemann’s ‘‘ Troy and its Remains,” p. 265.
% “¢ Stone Age,” Pl. vii, Fig. 155.
® Desor. transl, in Smithsonian Report, 1865, pp. 360, 361, Figs. 17, 18, 19.

<<<Page: 250>>>

shark’s teeth tied upon a staff, and sharpened bones. When the disposition exists a weapon will be found somewhere, and the most curious are those where the choice of material is but small and metal is inaccessible. Metal once obtained, the variety of weapons decreases, and knives, daggers, and swords assume a somewhat uniform character.
The persistent ceremonial use of stones for knives, after the use of metal had been fully established for the ordinary affairs of life, is noticeable in many old records and in the observation of late travelers. We may mention the stone knives used by the Egyptians, Ethiopians, and Hebrews in circumcision,’ by the Egyptians inembalming,'™ in obtaining the balm of Gilead,'” in the human sacrifices of Mexico, in the gashing of the flesh of fanatics,’ and in inducing the cicatrized wounds which form the ornaments or tribal marks of some savages. To these may be added the gashing of the flesh by the New Zealanders in their mourning, and the stone fleams used by the North American Indians for bleeding.
Museums have crude stone spalls and well-fashioned knives of stone in variety, but we can only appeal for illustrations to the collection in Philadelphia. In the upper and stone periods
of the hill of Hissarlik in Asia Fic. 67.—Obsidian nucleus and flakes, Mexico. Minor, Schliemann found numerous flint knives." Some have edges
like ordinary knives; others are serrated. At a depth of 25 feet he found double-edged knives of obsidian, sharp as razors.
Flint flakes and nuclei from the stone age of Scandinavia, and flint knives from Greenland and New Zealand made of spalls, and others of chipped flint, are shown by Nil-
Fic. 68—Obsidian knife, California. gon) and by Dr. Abbott, of New Jersey.’
Obsidian was a favorite material where obtainable. It was used in Mexico in the manufacture of sacrificial flake-knives, arrow-points, &c.'°7 The flakes were split off by the skillfully applied pressure of a T-shaped wooden implement. The nucleus and flakes (Fig. 67) were shown in the National Museum and are from Mexico. The same collection in the Government Building had the obsidian knife (Fig. 68). This has a
100 Hixodus, iv, 25; Joshua, v, 2. /
101 Herodotus, ii, 86; Diodorus Siculus, i, 91; Kitto, i, 81.
Buel rAbbanye, > say ty Ie
103 Thid., xxxv, 46; xi, 109. Compare also Pliny, xix, 57; xxiii, 81; xxiv, 6, 62. 101“ Troy and its Remains,” p. 79.
105 «Stone Age,” p. 76 and Pl. ii; Figs. 24, 23, and PI. iii, v.
106 Smithsonian Report, 1875, p. 300.
107 Torquemada.

<<<Page: 251>>>

wooden handle which shows the marks of a similar cutting instrument, and is therefore a veritable specimen of the stone age.
The Yellowsteae Park has/lately been stated to possess hills of obsidian of different colors, which have afforded for ages the material for the arrow-heads of the Indian tribes in the vicinity.
The flint knives of the Indians of the California peninsula are mentioned by Baegert.'”
As far away as the Admiralty Islands of the Papuan group we find obsidian used for knives, razors, and spear-points.’” The natives tie the spear-heads to the shaft with plaited string coated with gum. The knife used by the New Caledonians for carving the human body is called nbouet, and is a flat serpentine stone oval in form and seven inches in length. Holes are bored in it, by which it is fastened to a wooden handle. The New Caledonians eat their slain enemies, the women, who are the cooks, following the army and dragging the bodies off the field to prepare them for the supper of their returning husbands and brothers. The palms being considered as tid-bits, are the perquisites of the priests. Lach part belongs to certain persons, and the carving is regulated by rules. ‘The body is opened by the nbouwet and the intestines removed with a fork made of two human arm bones sharply pointed and lashed together. The women cooks prefer to truss the bodies in sitting posture, bake them whole, and serve them in war costume.
Many collections show knives of flakes of silex mounted in wooden and horn backs, and serrated knives or saws made by the insertion of flakes of obsidian, flint, or shark’s teeth in a grooved wooden back. Some are mentioned later when referring to spears. Such are found in California, Sweden, the Philippines, Australia, and elsewhere. The knife’ dabba of the Victorian blacks consists of quartz fragments attached to a wooden handle with gum.
Passing to knives of wood, we find none which would make impresSive illustrations; in the South Sea islands wood has been the principal material; until lately stone was unknown in some islands, and metal in almost all. The Fijian knife for cutting up bakolo (long pig), as the edible human body is called, was a sharp sliver of bamboo."? The Ajitas of the Philippines and New Guineans also use the bamboo sliver." The Sandwich Islanders have a battledore-shaped piece of wood" like the merai of the Maories, but armed on the edge with shark’s teeth. It was formerly employed in cutting up the bodies of warriors who fell in battle, or of persons sacrificed. The Mundurueus of the Amazon use a
10S'Translation in Smithsonian Report, 1863, p. 363. 109 Wood, vol. ii, p. 302.
40 Desor, transl. in Smithsonian Report, 1865, p. 360. 11 Smith’s ‘ Aborigines of Victoria.”
42 Smythe’s ‘Ten Months in Fiji,” p. 85.
3 Wood, vol. ii, p. 242.
14 Jbhid., vol. ii, p. 435.
—————

<<<Page: 252>>>

bamboo knife in decapitating their enemies to prepare the heads as trophies. The gentle savages are, however, not oblivious of the value of metal when they have an opportunity to see it. Francis Sparrow, whom Raleigh left to explore the country of the Orinoco, received eight beautiful young women for a red-handled knife—value in England at that time equal to one cent.
The Australian dagger is a stick pointed at both ends, grasped by the midlength, and struck right and left."°
Fic. 69.—G@reenlanders’ bone knives.
In the extreme northern countries no material is so ready to hand as bone. The harpoons, knives, and many other domestic implements of the Eskimo are of bone. Fig. 69 shows the fish and blubber knives of the Kajak natives of Greenland. They were shown in the Danish collection in the Main Building. ais made of the bone of a whale, and is 18 inches long; b is of wood, and is 10 inches long. Fig. 70 shows two other bone implements of the Kajaks, a bone knife used in skinning the seal, and a fish scoop. The knife is 14 inches long and two and a half inches wide; the bone spoon is four inches long and two wide.
Fic. 70.—Bone implements of Greenland.
Some of the bone knives of the Laplanders are very elaborate, especially those used in preparing skins.
16 Smith’s ‘‘ Aborigines of Victoria,” vol. i, p. 302.

<<<Page: 253>>>

The Eskimo in winter live in dome-shaped houses, called igloos, built of blocks of ice or snow. These blocks are voussoir shaped, so that they make a safe and symmetrical vaulted structure. They are hewn from the bank or field of solidified snow with large knives like Fig. 71, made of the bones of whales. Several of these knives were shown in the National
RS Museum and in the Greenland department Fi. 71.—Eskimo bone snow-knife. of the Danish collection. Two men, one to cut blocks and one to lay them, will erect a house in twohours. Just above the door a large plate of fresh-water ice is built in so as to illuminate the interior. Inside is a raised bench of snow, on which are laid sprigs and such scanty vegetation as the summer affords, to support the seal-skins which form the bed and bench. The dwellings are sometimes as much as 16 feet in diameter and 8 feet in height. The inevitable lamp is a stone dish with a wick of moss supported in it, and a quantity of oil fed from blubber piled upon it. This lamp is at once the warming and cooking stove, the light, the means of drying the clothes and melting thé snow for drink, for the whole family occupying the igloo. Above the lamp is the cooking-pot, which also does duty in containing snow to be melted for drinking water. Above the ccoking-pot (and by this time we are pretty near the roof) is a net spread to hold wet fur clothes, in order that they may be dried; after which they are chewed to make them supple.
Poniards and pike-heads of bones of deer and urus are described by Desor."®
One or two other instances of animal material used in knives and daggers may be mentioned before we reach the metallic. The double dagger of the East Indies has two sharpened antelope horns joined at their bases ; or it is a single straight two-ended blade of steel, a circular guard protecting the handle of the weapon, which is intended to strike right and left in a crowd. The Sandwich Islanders use daggers ( pahia) of wood, held in the middle and having a point at each end. The large mussel shell is the knife of the Fuegian; the original edge is knocked off and the solid portion made sharp by grinding upon a stone. The dagger of the Pelew Islanders is the tail bone of the sting-ray, and it is carried in a sheath formed of a joint of bamboo. The Tahitian dagger has the tail of the sting-ray as a point; it comes off in the wound and works deeper and deeper.
Fic. 72.—Indian knife of native copper.
This brings us to metal, of which we first consider copper. The copper knife, Fig. 72, was taken from an Indian mound. It does
16 Desor. Translation in Smithsonian Report, 1865, p358.

<<<Page: 254>>>

not appear that any of the North American Indians who had access to copper worked it by smelting; but they treated it as malleable stone and shaped it by hammering. The Greenland Eskimo make knives from the copper obtained from Coppermine River, from flint, from walrus ivory, or from such pieces of iron as they may obtain by barter or may pick up from whalers or explorers.
Fig. 73 shows a number of copper implements—knives, a spear, and
SSSSss ASS
SS a
= Ss
cs Ss
<=s Ss
SS Ww ass
—aN SK >
II wSs
Fic. 73.—Native copper implements, Wisconsin.
a hook; these are Indian remains from Wisconsin, the metal having doubtless been obtained from the Lake Superior copper distriet in
earlier times. They, together with many other copper tools, were exhibited by the Wisconsin Historical Society in the Mineral Annex of the Main Building. We cannot pretend to distinguish carefully between the weapon and the domestic implement. A knife is a knife whether
for the throat of an enemy or of a deer.
Fic. 74.—Copper weapon and steel dagger, British Oolumbia.
Fig. 74 shows a knife-like club a of native copper, a hereditary possession in the family of a Haidah chief in British Columbia. Beneath it

<<<Page: 255>>>

is shown a double-ended dagger (>), bound with copper, and obtained from the Kutchin Indians of Northwest British America. Such daggers are forged by the Indians from old files obtained from sawmills near the settlements. “They are in general use among the northern and northwestern ‘tribes.
Copper seems to have been the earliest metal to be fashioned into tools, and its alloy, bronze, the first efficient tool material. Molds of mica schist for casting copper weapons and ornaments were found by Dr. Schliemann in the hill of Hissarfik.'” There are also many such specimens in museums. The modern supposition that the ancients had a method of tempering copper as we do steel—or with analogous effects at least—is a myth. The metal acted upon was the alloy, bronze, and the range of effects is far inferior to the capacity of steel.
The Assyrians wore a profusion of daggers, two or more in the same sheath."* The handles were elaborate, wade of ivory, inlaid, set with precious stones, carved the shape of heads of animals, etc. One of copper was found by Layard at Nimroud. The Assyrians, like the Persians, probably used them as knives.
Copper knives were found by Schliemann’® in the lowest stratum of the excavations at Hissarlik; one of them was gilt. Also a number of copper daggers at a depth of 28 feet.
Egyptian knives were of bronze and of copper.”
A comparison of the forms of knives of the ancients and moderns shows that what may be termed the ‘“leaf-shape” has been very general. Itis true that the variety of shapes of leaves is so great that the term may be held indeseriptive; it suits the case, however.
Fig. 75 shows, in the upper row, a number of Roman knives of the classical period, and in the lower row a number of African knives of the present day. ais the secespita, a sacrificial knife with an iron blade and an ivory handle ornamented with gold and silver; bis the pugio or two-edged dagger worn by the officers of the army and by persons of rank; cis the culter coquinarius, or cook’s knife; d, the cultrarius, for cutting the throat of the sacrificial victim; e, the ¢. venatorius, or huntsman’s knife; /, the falx vinitoria, or vinedresser’s knife; g, the fale arboraria, for pruning and hedge-trimming.
The swords of the bronze age, dug up from the lacustrine village
FiG.75.—Ancient Roman and modern African knives.
"7 Schliemann’s “ Troy and its Remains,” p. 139, us ‘‘ Nineveh,” vol. ii, p. 264. ue “Troy and its Remains,” 150; pp. 332, 333. 120 Wilkinson. Kitto, vol. i, p. 372..

<<<Page: 256>>>

sites, are many of them like some of the figures, in the upper especially. See Desor,’” where they are shown, some with grooved blades and as much as 59 centimeters in length; also bronze poniards and knives with tongs and sockets.”
The lower row shows ht j k, knives of the Fans of Western Africa. These are sometimes as much as three feet in length and seven inches in width; they are kept very sharp in a sheath of wood, which isin two halves, and is bound together with strips of raw-hide covered with snake or human skin. JU is an Unyoro knife of iron, the handle bound with copper wire.’ m n are two two-edged daggers of the Niam-niams.” The dagger is worn in a sheath of skin attached to the girdle. The lances knives, and daggers have blood-grooves, differing in this respect from the Bonjo or Dyoor weapons. Both of the last-mentioned tribes have two-handled knives. The Bonjo knife” is used by the women in peeling tubers and slicing gourds and cucumbers; it has an oval shape, and is sharp on both sides, like the Unyoro knife J, Fig. 75. The Dyoor knife’ is spindle-shaped, and is used for similar purposes.
Dr. Schliemann found, in his excavations at Troy, a dagger of steel four inches long. The blade, which is double-edged and in the form of an arrow, is 1.6 inches long, and in a perfect state of preservation, which Dr. Schliemann attributes to the antiseptic power of the red wood ashes, mixed with charcoal, in which he found it embedded, in the large mansion close to the gate, 28 feet below the surface.
The Balonda dagger from the Zambesi is shown in Fig. 76, and has a remarkable resemblance to a and 1, Fig. 75, which are respectively Romanand Gaboon. This dagger is 24 inches long, and the handle is partly wrapped with
raw-hide. The handle is by no means aconkit
venient one, but no doubt the owner felt well ts
4 ‘ Aa eSaeas . ri HH
bad bes Hs st
satisfied with its ornamental appearance as it protruded from the scabbard.
Fig. 77 is an Angola dagger, with an iron blade and wooden handle. It looks much more like business than its fellow.
Fig. 78 shows an Angola dagger, with a Fic. 76.—Dagger :
of Balonda, Af. Strangely-shaped scabbard of sheet copper. ra.
Fic. 77.—Angola It has a copper-covered wooden handle and a Dagger. steel blade. The broad base of the sheath is probably indicative of its
4t'Translation in Smithsonian Report, 1865, p. 374. 12 [hid., pp. 374, 371~72.
1 Baker’s “Ismailia,” plate opposite p. 135. ™4Schweinfurth’s “ Africa,” vol. ii, pp. 10, 27.
™ Tbid , vol.i, p. 281.
26 Wood, vol. i, p. 503.

<<<Page: 257>>>

nationality, the same feature not having been noticed elsewhere. Its purpose is notapparent. The sheath of the kris has a considerable lateral enlargement at the upper end, but that weapon has a corresponding guard. It will be referred to presently, among swords.
The collection of savage arms from the Portuguese colonies of Augola and Mozambique, exhibited in the Agricultural Building, was not excelled in its kind in the whole Exhibition. With many additions, it was again exhibited in Paris in 1878.
Some of the articles therein shown were from the Banyai of the Zambesi, the Bechuanas, and tribes with which the parties crossing between the western and eastern coasts of the continent come in contact. Passing south and west to Natal, a very warlike people, the Zulus and Basuto Kafirs, are encountered. The articles from this people were shown in the Cape of Good #4 Hope collection, and are noticed among
clubs and spears; they do not use the bow and arrow. The assegai is the principal knife of the Kafir.” It is of semi-steel of soft temper, and will bend and keep its shape, which is taken advantage of by the natives in making bowls, spoons, and pipes. He prefers it to the steel of the white man, which breaks. The Bechuanas make the best knives in that region, and barter them to other tribes. The blade has a long lanceolate shape, with two edges, and the weapon is worn suspended from the neck.’* The handle, of ivory or wood, is carefully carved, frequently representjng an animal, ahyenaor giraffe, for instance. The wooden Sheath is made of two pieces of wood, hollowed out and bound together with sinews. The same is used among some tribes of Kafirs. The carving tool of the Bechuanas is more like a chisel; a blade like a thumb-nail in the end of a handle. The Japanese knives are numerous and peculiar.”
Fig. 79 is a leaf-shaped dagger or scalping-knife, of iron, with a bone handle, such as is used by the Blackfeet and PY. Black
ping Sioux. C. Carver, in his “Travels,” says that theleaf-shaped *™v« dagger, made in his time of bone, was peculiar to the Nadowessioux, or that family later known as the Da-ko-tahs or Sioux.
There is one class of weapons for grappling at close quarters, which may be mentioned here, as it was shown in the exhibit from British India. The baymak is a five-clawed weapon hidden in the hand, having loops through which the first and fourth fingers are passed. When the
18 Wood, vol. i, p. 103. 138 Casalis’ ‘Basutos,” p. 136. 129Siebold’s ‘‘ Nippon,” vii, plate 19, Figs. 3, 4, 5, 6.
Fic. 78.—Angola dagger.

<<<Page: 258>>>

hand is opened, the steel claws, like those of a lion, are exposed, and are intended to rip the naked belly of the adversary. The term baymak is understvod to include several forms of weapons, such as brass knuckles and spikes which are carried in the hand.
The Samoans have a somewhat similar weapon—a glove made of coir, and having on the inside several rows of shark’s teeth, set hooking so that they retain anything which is grasped. Like the baymak, it is intended to rip the abdomen of an enemy. To guard themselves against this weapon the Samoans use a heavy and wide belt of coir, reaching from the arm-pits to the hips. This belt was the nearest to the nature of clothing of anything in the islands; a number of cords of sinnet are strained on two parallet sticks about 36 inches apart; the sinnet weft is then worked in over and under alternate threads.’
The bague de mort, seen by Stendhal in Rome,” is like the East Indian baymak in the mode of hiding it in the hand, but it has only two claws, which are of steel, very sharp and like those of lions. The piece to which the claws are rooted is held in the hand by rings, through which pass the second and third fingers, beneath which the claws are hidden, nothing appearing but the rings. Poison is placed in grooves channeled in the claws, like the poison groove in the fang of a rattlesnake.
Stendhal says: ‘‘Dans une foule, au bal par example, on saississait avec une apparence de galanterie la main nue de la femme dont on voulait se venger; en la serrant et retirant le bras, on la déchirait profondément, et, en méme temps, on lassait tomber la bague de mort. Comment, dans une foule, trouver le coupable ?”
The Djibba tribe of the Upper Nile wear bracelets for cutting and ‘tearing, the edge being protected by leathern sheaths when the weapon is not required for duty. Some of them have double jagged edges and others a single sharp edge.
The Nuehr carry on the wrist an iron ring with projecting blades.
The Roman boxing gauntlet, cestus, was a much less sanguinary affair, being merely armed with lead or with bosses.
We pass from knives to swords; which is but to an implement of a larger kind. The sword proper is a weapon, but the machete of the Spaniard, the corn and cane knives of the plantation and farm, are domestic implements of similar character, but with less ornamental furnishing. Where vegetation is as large as that of the corn or sugar-cane, a sword-like implement is necessary in gathering it,and the same large knife is used in tropical countries in cutting away the vines and creepers which obstruct the narrow passes through the woods."
Ot the cruder materials, stone and wood, used in swords, the Exbibition furnished but few examples. Some of the clubs already considered
130 Wood, vol. ii, p. 354. 1s0a *¢ Promenades dans Rome,” vol. i, p. 267. 131 Rafile’s ‘‘ Java,” 4to, p. 113.
S. Mis. 54

<<<Page: 259>>>

had sharpened edges and approximated the sword character. The New Zealand stone sword, Fig. 80, can hardly be classed under any other head,‘as it has a handle, a back, and an edge, and is adapted to deliver a cutting blow. The swords of the Pelew Islanders are of wood inlaid with pieces of shell.'? The Kingsmill Islanders have wooden swords, armed on their edges with sharks’ teeth lashed with sinnet braided from the fiber of the cocoa-nut. The wooden blade has grooved ridges to receive the teeth, corresponding holes being made in the ridges and teeth through which the braided cord is repeatedly passed to fasten the teeth in this artificial alveolar ridge. The swords are single or double edged, and have guards similarly armed with teeth, so that no part of the weapon except the handle can be touched withimpunity. The spears are similarly armed, like some which were shown from the Philippine Islands. <A fine assortment of those weapons, obtained by the Wilkes Expedition, is in the National Museum at Washington.
The gold-coast section of the English eclonies presented two curious swords with broad, thin blades, especially wide near the point. The perforations make the blade still lighter. The tang is set in a wooden handle with two knobs, between which is the hand-hold. Fig. 82 has a double blade, and is referred to as an “executioner’s sword”; a weapon in much demand all around that part of Fic 80.—Maori stone the world, especially Dahome. The two i ee eee
blades of Fig. 82 are united at a point where the flattening of the blades commences. The blades are 24 inches long; the carved handles are 8 inches long, and one of them is gilded.
The swords of Dahomé?!** have knobs on the ends of the blades, so that they may be used as clubs. One noticed had a knob carved like a human head. The back of another had a series of backwardly-curved prongs, intended as hooks to catch a pursued enemy. The classic harpe, the sword of Mercury and Perseus, had a similar prong, hamus. Another sword of bloody renown is the weapon of the ‘‘ Razor Women,” who form
182 Wood, vol. i, p. 449. 133 Duncan’s ‘‘ Western Africa,” p. 226.

<<<Page: 260>>>

one battalion of the Dahomé Amazons. The weapon is copied from the white man’s razor, but has a blade 2 feet long, and a handle of proportionate size. A spring holds the blade open. It is as if, in a jocular spirit, some trader had foisted an absurdity upon them; but the natives claim it as an invention of the late King Gezo. The real razor of the Ashantee is of a nearly trapezoidal form; this latter is for legitimate shaving. Coming southwardly along the coast of Africa we arrive at Angola, which, as we have already had occasion to remark, was well represented in the Agricultural Building. Fig. 83 is a sword made by a native armorer of Angola; it has a curiouslyshaped hilt, and tufts of horse-hair stained red. The hilt is in part covered with sheet-lead. The gay appearance of the hilt, as it showed when sheathed and worn at the side, was probably its principal Sap aa Ts Des) a, | ga seme ie eeommeD dation. eauat, A ined: Angola, Africa. zambique, Africa. he general shape of the African sword is curved, although of the examples from the Portuguese colonies two are straight and but one bent. The specimens illustrated from other sections of the continent will amply compensate for the present larger majority of straight-bladed weapons. Fig. 84 shows a native swordof Mozambique. It has a short wooden handle, frem which the usual button on the end of the tang has dropped off. The guard of the hilt has a peculiar scroll shape, and one branch has been broken. The sword of the Hamram Arabs, of Central Africa,™ is also straight, double edged, and has a cross-guard. The blade is 36 inches long, and each edge is as sharp as arazor. It is carried in-a wooden scabbard made of two pieces, hollowed to receive the blade, and covered with leather. With this weapon the Arab will cut a man in two, or will hamstring an elephant.
SS =e S
Pin See
134 Wood, vol. i, p. 753.

<<<Page: 261>>>

Fig. 85 is a steel cimeter of Mozambique, with a broad and very thin
blade. i. nas a wooden handle ornamented with sheet brass enchased
and jeweled. It is 40 inches long, and has a groove near the back of the blade.
Fig. 86 is a sickle-shape cimeter, brought by Col. Long (Bey) on his return from his expedition into Central Africa in the service of the Khedive. It was shown in the Egyptian Department in the Main Building, and is like the weapon represented by Schweinfurth as held by the Monbuttoo King Munza during the audience which he held with that potentate.’”
ey — =
L ae Ne 7, | iy 7 ON WA Hi x 7) aS
Stee:
Fic. 85.— Cimeter of Mozambique, Africa.
Fic. 86.—Monbuttoo cimeter, Central Africa.
It is usually of steel, but on that occasion was a weapon of ceremony, and made of pure copper. The adjacent tribe, the Niam-niams, use implements of somewhat similar shape, curved broad-ended blades, somewhat after the bill-hook order, reminding one of the corresponding Roman implement, the fale vinitoria.
The kookery of the Ghoorkas, a tiger-fighting hill tribe of India,’”* is another example of a boldly curved chopping-sword, broad near the end, and sharpened on the concave edge, which is, however, of an ogee shape. It is about fifteen inches long, is used either to cut or thrust, and is made of the famous ‘“* Wootz” steel. in side pockets of the scabbard.
Two little knives are carried
135 “Africa,” vol. ii, pp. 9, 10, 107. 136 Wood, vol. ii, p. 760.

<<<Page: 262>>>

Fig. 87 is a saber brought by Capt. Long (Bey) from the Soudan Expedition. It has a boldly curved steel blade and a wooden handle. The sheath and belt are ofleather. The Nubian cimeter is, perhaps, even a little more curved than that shown from Soudan; but doubtless the weapons of a district vary, and are not confined rigidly to a _ certain curve, aS in some countries where such things are defined in the “ Regulations.” The curve in each case is much greater than that of the xéz<, the eastern cimeter of classic times. The Apongos usea cimeter of similar shape, and with a handle shaped like a dice-box. The blade is 4 feet long. No other cimeter of Africa has so peculiar a bend as the shotel of the Abyssinians.'** The blade is nearly straight for two feet, and then suddenly makes a turn of about sixty degrees. The edge is on the concave side, and it is intended that the point shall reach over the top of an enemy’s shield. The blade is wider and heavier toward the point. It is of soft iron, has a rhinoceros-horn handie, and is swung on the right side.
Among the most curious weapons of the savage world are the hurling cimeters—if they may be so called—the trumbashes of the Niam-niams.’* The term is from Sennaar, and refers generally to the missile weapons of the negroes. The trumbash of the Niam-niams (kulbeda) Fig. 26, consists ordinarily of several limbs of iron with pointed prongs and sharp edges. Somewhat similar implements are used by the tribes of the Tsad basin, and a weapon on the same principle is used by the Marghy and Musgoo. The Niam-niams carry them attached to the insides of their shields ready for duty, and hurl them with great rapidity, force, and accuracy. They are made by the skillful smiths of the Monbuttoo tribe of the Welle River. A hurling axe shaped like a sickle is also used by the troops of the scheik of Borneo. It is known as a hunga-munga and somewhat resembles the trumbash of the Niam-niams. The Tibboos, west of Nubia, use a missile sword, as do also the Fans of Western Africa. The Fan weapon is flat and pointed, and near the handle is a sharp projection. ‘
Fic. 87.—Saber of Soudan, Africa.
187 Wood, vol. i, p. 718. 138 Sch weinfurth’s ‘‘ Africa,” vol. ii, p. 10.

<<<Page: 263>>>

The Malays and Dyaks have several swords, as they may be called, of peculiar character. Three of them are cutting weapons; the other is a thrust. The three former are parangs ; the latter is the kris.
Fic. 88.—The parang of the Malays.
The parang! (Fig. 88 ) has a two-edged blade which is small but thick at the handle, and runs broader and thinner to near the point. It is elaborately ornamented with tufts of human hair and charms. The handle is frequently of deer bone neatly carved, but in the present instance is of wood bound with red leather and has a tuft-of human hair at the hilt. The scabbard is of red wood, carved. <A ratan-splitting knife? oceupies a pocket in a small sheath attached to the scabbard of the parang. This attaching of a knife to the scabbard is also found in Seotland and Central Africa. The parang-latok is made of a square bar of 4-inch steel, which is gradually thinned and widened until it reaches a width of two inches near the point. It has a peculiar bend of 30° near the hilt. It is sword, machete, axe, all in one, being the ordinary weapon of the men and many of the women. It is kept ina wooden sheath made of two pieces of wood hollowed out and bound together with ratan. Itis the executioner’s weapon. The parang-ihlang is straight. Its blade has a curious shape, being ogee in cross-section. This shape seems to give it wonderful execution in cutting, but at the same time makes it dangerous to an inexpert swordsman, as the blade glances in a remarkable manner. The beheading sword of the piratical Illanos™! has a somewhat similar curve. The holes in the lanoon sword indicate the number of victims.
The most characteristic, however, of the Malay weapons is the kris™ (Fig. 89), which is used in thrusting, as a Spaniard uses his knife. The armorers take as much pride in the making of the weapon as of old did the Toledo or Ferrara workmen. The blade is generally waving, and its grain is more marked than in any other weapon, as much so in fact as the Damascus gun-barrel, and for the same reason, as it is made of steel and iron strips laid together, twisted, doubled, and variously convoluted to give the kind of marking required. These are rendered more plain by etching the blade with lime juice, the acid corroding one metal
189 Boyle’s ‘* Dyaks of Borneo,” 114, 115;
Belcher’s ‘Eastern Archipelago,” ii, 133 and plate. 49 Belcher’s ‘* Eastern Archipelago,” vol. i, pp. 280, 231. 141 Tbid, vol. i, p. 266. 12 Rafiles’ “‘ Java,” 4to, i, p. 296 and plates; Wallaces’ ‘ Malay.”

<<<Page: 264>>>

more than the other, and hence leaving the surface grooved. The exe-
cution kris is also used as a thrust weapon, the parang-latok being used for beheading. The culprit or victim, as the case may be, sits in a chair, and his extended arms are held by two persons. The executioner stands behind and places the point of the kris just by the left collar bone, and strikes it downward, piercing the heart. If he be fastidious he places a pledget of cotton wool around the point of the kris before thrusting it into the thorax, holds it there tightly, so as to wipe the weapon on its recovery, thrusts the wool into the gap, and thus avoids shedding a drop of blood. ‘‘ A most delicate monster.”
It may be added that the kris is the most cherished possession of its owner, and may be worth $20, when his clothing would not command 25 cents. Some krises are heavily inlaid with gold. The sheath is of wood and comparatively * plain. The size of the weapon is usually from 12 to 15 inches long, but larger ones are to be seen. Some authorities have told us that the handle is always bent at right angles to the blade. In the Javan collection of the Dutch colonies in the Main Building the handles were as represented in the figure.
Five swords of the Philippine Islands are represented in Fig. 90. They were in the Spanish Government Building. The resemblance to the Malaysian implements is very marked; a is evidently a kris; b is a parang; ¢ is a parangthlang.
The Siamese sword! used from ele¢ phant back has a handle four feet long JRO i” of heavy wood and a screw-joint in the Fic. 90.—Swords of the Philippines. | middle to make it more portable. The
Fic. 89.—Walay kris.
Sawa
148 Ruschenberger’s ‘‘ Voyage Round the World,” p. 295,

<<<Page: 265>>>

blade is one-edged, two feet long, and gently curved. The guard is a disk set with gems and the scabbard is enameled.
The Chinese use single swords, sometimes one in each hand; they also have two-handed swords.’ The warrior armed with two makes them fly like the sails of a windmill, he leaping and dodging the while. The two-handed sword is of the same length and weight as the one exhibited from Norway. The Chinese also use asword blade on the end of a pole. The practice of the Japanese of rank in carrying two swords is familiar from the many illustrations on the fans, which are
aor PEERS a
A tile,
see iases
%, ett"
ead SSA
Fria so good and cheap. The swords are known as ken 3 and katten. Some of the old Japanese swords have (:
f neg 145
(4 blood lines.
The Norwegian two-handed sword of some centuries since was shown in the collection from that country inthe Main Building. It has a whole length of 54 feet and a hilt 15 inches in length. It has two hand-holds on the hilt and one above the hilt, probably to hold it when used as a pike.
nf =. Roe
SOON tenors
3 The spear is found among most savage nations and Bi was the knightly weapon in Europe until the introeh duction of fire-arms. It, however, continued in use
Eee PIES
among the Poles, Russians, Turks, and Tartars, and yas introduced into the armies of Prussia by Frederick the Great; the Austrians followed, calling the troops Uhlans, and lances are now found in most of A—<e the European cavalry forces. A number of lances were made for a cavalry regiment in the army of the Potomac, but the project was abandoned and the lances laid away in the arsenal in Washington.
Perhaps we may assume that the first spear was a sharpened stick or pole; such a one was shown in Fic. 91-—Norwegian two. the collection from the Argentine Republic, a round
handed sword. pole a little larger than a hayfork handle, of dark wood and 10 feet long. The point was a simple taper without any attempt at hastate form.
A common spear of Borneo and the Philippines is a sharpened bamboo, such as shown at a b, Fig. 92. In one case the shaft is of bamboo, and in the other a bamboo head is slipped upon a cocoa-wood shaft. The end is so sharpened that the hard silicious skin of the bamboo forms the edge and makes a very efficient cutting and piercing weapon. The spears c d are of cocoa wood. Thehead ofc has an ornament resembling arr Wood, vol. ii, p. 814. ;
4 Siebold’s ‘‘ Nippon,” ii, plates 3, 5 bis, 12.

<<<Page: 266>>>

six diminishing ears of corn with a round finial point. Similarly ornamented spear heads are made in Fiji. The other (d) has six gradually decreasing sets of barbs crowned by a finial. Other spears from the Philippines had shark’s teeth tacked to ridges on the head, and some had metallic heads. They will be shown presently.
Jagor mentions that the spear (pica) of the Philippines is of caryota wood 2.27™ long ; the head of bamboo, carved wood, or iron (purchased).'
The large spear of the Sandwich Islands™ is 12 or 15 feet long and is not barbed, but the hurling spear is 6 or 8 feet long, of hard wood, and tapers toward the butt, to throw the center of gravity forward of the mid-length and enable it to fly straight.
The Fijians, * who excel in ingenuity, have several kinds of spears. The fishing spear has three or four points set in separately. Each pointhas a round, square, or semicircular section, is dovetailed into the shaft and lashed thereto with sinnet. The war spear has a carved head, and barbs, either cut in the wood, or made of the tail of the stingray and set in separately ; these brittle barbs come off in the wound and insure cruel
> ere
SS as
AiSts’s ———— =
% eee TS,
SER LSS ry
mare ix suffering and generally death. = ¢, BN oH
One Fijian spear is made of a wood which bursts when moist, so that it is with difficulty extracted. The differ-
i ent islands, such as the Tonga, Fic. 92.—Spears of the Philippines. Herveys, Fiji, and the New Hebrides have distinguishable varieties of spears.
46 “ Philippines,” p. 210. 47 Wood, vol. ii, p. 434. “8 Williams “Fiji,” pp. 44-5.

<<<Page: 267>>>

The Australian spears are of various qualities and shapes: a sharpened stick (nandum) with notches for barbs; a spear with a separate head of hard miall wood deeply cut with barbs, and fastened to a reed (phragmetes communis) shaft; one with a basalt or quartzite head lashed to the shaft with sinews from the tail of the kangaroo,’ with long projecting barbs on each side, curiously formed from hard wood,’ a single bone lashed to the head and projecting laterally and backwardly from the point so as to form a barb; the mongile, a head armed with sharp basalt or quartzite flakes set with pid-jer-ong gum; one with a head piece of bone which is lashed to the shaft so that its respective ends form point and barb; !™ lastly, leisters with from two to four barbed points,’ and from 6 to 15 feet long.
The flower stalk of the grass-tree furnishes the spear-shaft, which is 9 or 10 feet long. Fig. 93 shows two South Australian spears, one with a double set of inserted barbs made of obsidian or quartz, and a kangaroo spear with a wooden head 30 inches long, and asingle row of barbs; the shaft is 8 feet long. Fig. 94 shows two fish-spears, one with two prongs and the other with three. The prongs of hard and tough gumtree wood are tapered towards each end, pointed, and barbed ; their buttends are then inserted in notches on the end of the shaft and held in position by black-boy gum, while the prongs are spread apart by wedges driven between them. The prongs are then lashed with sinews. The Australian has a blade on the end of his spear to act as a paddle as he stands in his dug-out canoe and watches the water or quietly moves from place to place. The night is Fic. 93.—Australian the favorite time for fish-spearing, a Fic. 94.—Australian wooden
wooden spears. fire being made on a bed of wet sand ane ae (age and stones in the bottom of the canoe. The natives also carry torches of inflammable bark; this mode of fishing is common in North America and in Scotland, called ‘burning the water” in the former, and ‘ leistering” in the latter. ‘
49 R, Brough Smith, ‘‘ Aborigines of Victoria,” vol. i, p. 304, Fig. 71-74.
150 Tbid., vol. i, p. 305, Figs. 75, 76.
161 Thid., vol. i, p. 308, Fig. 85.
182 Thid., vol. i, Figs. pp. 69, 70, and i, 308, Fig. 84.
168 Thid., vol. i, p. 304, Fig. 68, andi, 336, Fig. 141.
‘4 Thid., vol. i, p. 306, Fig. 77, 78.
155 Thid., vol. i, p. 306, Figs. 79, 80, p. 337, Fig. 144 et al. See also Pl. iv, and pp. 33-5 Nilson’s ‘‘ Stone Age.”

<<<Page: 268>>>

The large spear of the Australian, not to be thrown but used as a pike, is as much as 13 feet in length, the head of hard wood, the shaft of lighter wood, and as large as the wrist. The Australians also use a forked spear, bobo, to secure eels and snakes alive.’ The turtle harpoon, like the hippopotamus harpoon of Africa, has a head detachable from the shaft. To the head is attached a rope, on the other end of which isabuoy. The harpoon for the dugong has a bone head 4 inches long and covered with barbs. It becomes detached from the shaft after striking; the cord attached to the spear-head has no float, but is secured on board the canoe. The simplest form of fish-spear is a long sharp stick used in gigging fish in water-holes.’”
The spears in the New Zealand department were all of wood. Some were simply pointed poles of hard wood; others had carved heads with pyramidal points. The spear is not a favorite weapon of the Maoris; in fact is said to have been laid aside. The heads of the spears are understood to be a conventional representation of the human tongue thrust out. That shown in Fig. 95 is destitute of ornament; Fig. 96, called by the natives taiaha kwra, has suspended tufts of dyed hair.
The styles of ornamentation peculiar to New Zealand, New Guinea, and Fiji are referred to by R. Brough Smith."
The harpoon of the Ancaman Islander is Shot from a bow, and has a detachable head with a connected cord, which is held by the archer.
_ The spears already considered are made of wood, although the use of the tail of the sting-ray by the Fijians and of bone and obsidian by the Australians have been incidentally mentioned. Materiais in great variety have been used for the heads or barbs of spears.
Stone spear-heads were shown in the South Australian department. They were obtained Fic. 95.—Maori from the northern part of the island near yyg 96 draorispear
wooden spear. Melville's Island. They are genuine speci= *##aha kwra. mens of the stone age, which does not represent a specific time but a grade of civilization. Consideration must also be had to the absence of metals in some localities. The stone spear-heads are chipped to shape and lashed to reed shafts with sinews, or with fiber obtained from roots. The reeds are 6 feet long and the heads from 4 to 6 inches.
The spears of the Solomon Islanders are tipped with sharp flints; those of the Admiralty Islanders are of obsidian lashed to the shaft and coated
166 Aborigines of Victoria, vol. i, p. 307, Fig. 82. 167 Tbid., vol. i, p. 307, Fig. 81.
1557Tbid., VOl. 1, pp. 296, 297. 69 Monat ‘‘Andaman,” p. 326.

<<<Page: 269>>>

with gum. The Mexican spears were pointed with obsidian. The obsidian spear-heads of the Papuans excited the surprise of Schouten, an early navigator in those seas; he remarks that they had “long staves with very long, sharp things at the ends thereof, which, as we thought, were finnes of black fishes.” The aborigines of the Canaries, a race of African origin, when first discovered, used hatchets, knives, lancets, and spear-heads of obsidian, and axes of green jasper.
The lances found in the upper strata during the excavations at Hissarlik'' were of a very hard black or green stone. The spear of the Northern American Indian was formerly of stone or flint, but is now of steel.’
We may refer in a single group to Fic. 97.—Stone spear-heads, South AustOSe Spears which are tipped with animal
AIEEE. material, bone, horn, shell, shark’s teeth, claws of beasts and birds (such as of the kangaroo, cassowary, or emu), and the tail of the sting-ray. In the times of Herodotus and Strabo, African spears were headed with the sharpened horns of antelopes,'® and the practice still obtains. '* The Canary Islanders, when discovered, in the fourteenth century, had spears and ‘digging-sticks tipped with horns." Fic. 99.— Wooden
Fig. 98shows fisl-spear. Ma-
Fic. 98.—Bone spear-heads and hook, Greenland. twow Ka j ik vale ae
2 z}
tite
tl ttitdla
wae a
lineage Warnes UV 7 AR
spear-heads and a hook of bone, exhibited in the Greenland section of the Danish department. The upper one is cut down so as to leave barbs. The next beneath it has an iron tip riveted to the bone. The lower example is a bone hook about 2 inches across. Barbed harpoons of bone, from a Scanian bog, Sweden, from a cave in Perigord, and from Terra del Fuego, are shown in Nilson’s “Stone Age.” 1%
160 Purchas, vol.i, p. 95.
16“ Schliemann’s Troy, &c.,” p. 79.
2 Dr. Abbott in Smithsonian Report, 1875, pp. 269, 274. 163 Herod., vii, 69-71. Strabo, xvi, 4, 9, 11.
164 Andersson, p. 15.
165 Tylor, p. 222, and note passim.
166 Plate iv, Figs. 69, 70, 72.

<<<Page: 270>>>

Fig. 99 is a fish-spear head of wood with incurved points or babs of
bone; the binding is of cherry bark. These hooks are used By the Makahs and other Northwestern Indians.
Fig. 100is a fish-spear of the Chookchees ( Tschucklochies) of Northeast Siberia. It has a long stout shaft of pine wood, only one-half the length of which is shown. The head consists of two baleen prongs, on the ends of which are lashed two incurved points of ivory, forming barbs. The same style of fish-spear is used by the Youcon Indians of the Mackenzie River country.'” The Fuegan fishing-spear is 10 feet long and has an octagonal shaft with a bone head 7 inches in length, with a single barb.
The National Museum in the Government Buildinghad specimens of whale and seal lances from Siberia, Alaska, and Greenland.
Fig. 101 is a seal-spear from the Chookchees of Northeast Siberia. It has a long spliced pine-wood handle and movable point of bone with a metallic tip.
Harpoons with movable and immovable points’ are shown in Sven Nilson’s “ Stone Age,” edited by Sir John Lubbock.
Fig. 102 is a whaling-lance from the Ponook Eskimo of Alaska. It is pointed with a portion of a marrow-bone cut off obliquely so as to afford a long cutting-edge. The butt-end has a flattened piece to fit the throwing-board, which will be shown presently. The piece on the side is a spur or button to prevent the spear penetrating the whale
SSS at
Fic. 100.—Chookchee jish-spear, Siberia.
too far. The Ostiaks, Chookchees, and Keriaks secure the same end
Fic. 101.—Seal-spear of the Chookchees, Northeast Siberia. by binding the shaft with raw sea-lion hide, which, drying,
forms an in-
Fic. 102.—Whaling-lance of Alaska Eskimo. movable ridge. Fig. 103 is a whaling‘lance of the Greenland Eskimo.
167 Smithsonian Report for 1866, p. 324. 168 “* Stone Age,” Plate iii, Figs. 52, 53 (for bladder spears).
169 Tbid, Plate iii, 41, 50, 51; Plate iv, 69, 72 (bone tips and bone tipped with stone).

<<<Page: 271>>>

It has an iron snow-rest at the end of the wooden stock; the shaft is of iron and has a walrus-ivory point, which comes free of the shaft when the whale is struck. The shaft is dragged by the whale, and a float may be secured to the end of the thong. The thongs for the Eskimo harpoons are made from the skins of a large species of seal. Incisions six
eas; inches apart are made completely oad around the body and the rings of hide
removed like somany hoops. These are then cut spirally into thongs of a length equal to the circumference of the body atthe part multiplied by the number of times the width of the thongs goes into 6 inches. Fig. 104 is another whaling-lance of the Greenland Eskimo. It hasalong bone rod for the attachment of the movable head which comes entirely free of the shaft, but is held by the thong. The shaft has a snow-rest at the butt.
The Makah Indians of the Northwest Coast use a lance and seal-skin buoy in capturing the great bow-head whales of the Pacific. Fig. 105 shows the buoy, rope, and lance-head. The head is placed on the end of a long forked pole and comes off the shaft after the whale is struck. The buoy is made of a seal-skin stripped off entire, sown up at the ends, and inflated. The lancehead is of shell with walrus-ivory barbs and point secured with sinews and pitch. The rope is of spruce root roasted in the ashes, pounded, frayed, and twisted. Fig. 106 shows the seal and fishspear of the Eskimo of Kodiak, Alaska. It has a long slender ornamented . shaft and movable barbed yy. 104.—Whating-lance point. ‘Thé# shaft@has aa) Syed Been: bladder float and an ivory knob to limit the penetration of the spear.
iid ddidbdddee CLL
Fic. 103.—Whaling-lance, Greenland.

<<<Page: 272>>>

The bird-spear of the Greenland Eskimo has, besides its main point, several supplementary points at some distance from the end of the spear. It has an inflated bladder to prevent its sinking in the water.
A number of dif: ferent Polynesian Weapons are made with shark’s teeth lashed to wooden clubs or lances. Fig. 107 is a spearFia. 105.—Lance-head and seal buoy, British Oolumbia. head exhibited in the Philippine Islands section of the Spanish department. The Kingsmilland Marquesas Islanders alsoarm the edges of their spears with sharks’ teeth, binding them to the shaft with sinnet, the plaited fiber (coir) of the cocoa-nut. One from the Kingsmill Islands has over 200 teeth in a row, the shaft being of light wood and 15 feet long. A spear from the Philippines had 72 teeth in a row. A saw is made on the same principle by the Australians; flakes of obsidian or quartz, about the size of a quarter-dollar, are inserted in a grooved stick of gum-tree wood and fastened by gum from the grass-tree, commonly known as ‘“ black-
SS WSS Sy o> jo
Fic. 106.—Seal and fish spear, Kodiak Eskimo, Alaska.
boy” gum.’” Javelins of bone or wood with longitudinal grooves, in which are inserted flint flakes, are shown by Nilson.”
The spear of the Tonga Islands is barbed with the tail bone of the sting-ray ; the same bone is used on the prongs of the Tahitian trident. The barbs are not fastened, but are slipped into sockets just tight enough to hold them until they are thrust into the body, when they become detached and, from their barbed character, work deeper and deeper into the wound.
We have considered wooden spears, and those with stone and bone heads, and incidentally some other materials. We now come to metal, the material of all the best, and which, once adopted, is not again laid aside.
Spear-heads of copper were shown among the Indian implements from Wisconsin. Copper preceded iron, being found native and malleable. Copper and bronze implements are among the articles recoyered from the Egyptian tombs, the tumuli of Assyria, and the excaya-
170 Wood, vol. ii, p. 35. in «* Stone Age,” pl. vi, Figs. 124, 5, 6.

<<<Page: 273>>>

tions of Hissarlik.” The spears of the Peruvians” were tipped with copper or bone, and those of the Inca lords mounted with gold and silver.
The Philippine Islands were represented in the Spanish Government building, and had a sheaf of spears, among which were the iron weapons, Fig. 108. One of these has a sword-blade, and a number of ferrules to prevent the tang from splitting the shaft. Another spear has two barbs, and a third one has alanceolate head. The trident, Fig. 110, was also shown in the same collection. The mora, or cross-bar, to limit the penetration of the spears, shown in the Roman venabulum or hog spear, does not seem to be in common use in the Orient. The Japanese have as many as 14 kinds of spears, perhaps more.
Fig. 109 is a threepointed spear from Timor, shown in the collection from the Portuguese colonies. It has three simple points, the outer ones being on the ends of a cross-bar slipped over the middle prong and bent forward. The Philippine trident, Fig. 110, is used for fishing, but the [1lanoon pirates'’” use a bifurcated spear with retreating barbs to catch men by the neck. The three-pointed spear is foundin many widely separated parts of the world, and is mentioned in the history of the Saracen conquests, particularly in one of the feats of Ali. oe ae: Fig. 111 shows three
tooth spear of the ppears of the Island of Timor. They show the same tendency as to shape as the halberds and lances of the middle
<2 —
es BysSees Ss pygepanys es DS
teeta
Ia =
staEbss
ee io a
eSosos
Fic. 108.—Zron spear-heads of the Philippines.
2 “Troy and its Remains,” p. 330. 173 ‘‘Conquest of Peru,” vol. i, p. 73. 174 Siebold’s “Nippon,” vol.ii, pl. 6. 17 Belcher’s ‘‘ Eastern Archipelago,” vol. i, p. 252.

<<<Page: 274>>>

ages. The weapons of Timor and of the Philippines are very similar, as might have been anticipated.
The African spears show a great variety. Over the large portion of the continent iron is either plentiful or readily accessible by means of the native traders. The metallurgic process is a direct one from the ore and the product is a steel. Weights, shapes, and sizes of the weapons differ greatly. The Bongos of the Upper Nile’ are skillful Fic. 109.—Trident of Timor. blacksmiths and make excellent lances, especially considering the crude character of their tools. The spears of the Niamniams and Monbuttoos'” are of a hastate shape, and their weapons all have blood-grooves, which distinguishes them from the weapons of the Bongo and Mittoo. The Manganji Spear’ is sometimes made with a paddle or dibble at the end of the handle, and is weighted with iron rings.
The spear of the Kanemboo infantry
Ot LL IIIT PFT pe
SESS Eth
% eniwatatn @easarras
Fic. 110.—Trident of the Philippines.
soldier of Borneo is 7 feet in length, Hy and armed below the head with a numyi
ber of hook-shaped barbs. The Abyssinian spear is seven feet long and has four grooved sides. It is used either as a pike or a javelin. The natives have also a way of throwing it at close quarters by letting the shaft pass through the hand and catching the butt-end. The bark of a young tree being removed, the wood is seasoned by fire, greased, then hung in the sun to obtain the desired color.
The hippopotamus spear of the Zambesi’” is a beam four or five feet long armed with a spear-head or hard-wood i“ spike covered with poison. The spear Fig. 111.—Spears of Timor.
177 Tbid., vol. ii, p. 27. 178 Livingstone’s ‘‘ Zambesi,” p. 532. 179 Livingstone’s Zambesi, p. 107; Baker’s Ismailia, Pl. opp., p. 185.
S. Mis. 54-18

<<<Page: 275>>>

to the path frequented by the animals, is held by a catch and is set free when the animal treads upon it. The Banyai of the Zambesi have a hippopotamus spear with a wooden shaft, iron head, and weighted with stones; like the former, it is suspended over the track of the animals. The Fans of the Gaboon have a similar contrivance. The Dor tribe prepares a similar spear, but the hunterclimbs a tree and drops it upon an elephant passing beneath. The elephant spear of Unyoro is similar.
The hippopotamus harpoon of the Zambesi™ has an iron head inserted in the end of a long pole of light wood. The head has a stout barb and becomes detached from the shaft; the rope attached to the head unreels from the shaft, and when it has all run out the shaft acts as a float to indicate the locality of the animal. An inflated bladder is sometimes used asa float. Therope is made from the bark of the milola, an umbrageoushibiscus. The Hamram Arabs use a float of ambatch, an extremely light wood. The Makobahs of Lake Ngami'' attach the rope to the head by a large bunch of loose strands, which cannot be cut clean off by the teeth of the animal. A rope of palm leaf is attached to the shaft, and is coiled up in the boat.
The turtle-spear of the Central American Indians is a heavy palm-wood staff with a notched iron peg at the end, and twenty fathoms of silkgrass line attached.
The assegai, the hurling spear or javelin of the Kafirs, was shown in the Cape of Good Hope collection. It is a very formidable weapon in
——— eBeliasBarmsnenlesccs: CE e Tae —
Fig. 112.—Ka/sir assegais.
the hands of this athletic and untamed people. The people of ‘the Cape” say that the Kafirs are the remains of the lost “ ten tribes of Israel,” and have fought their way all down through Africa. Their assegais are made from native iron, have wooden shafts, and are decorated with tufts of cow hair. The blade has various symmetrical lanceolate shapes. A ridge passes along the centerof the blade, which is concave on one side, convex on the other. This shape is intended to give rotation to the weapon. The head of the assegaiis about the size of the blade of a table-knife, and has a tang which is inserted by burning it while redhot into a shaft of assegai wood (Curtisia jaginea), which resembles mahogany. ‘The two parts are secured by lashings of raw hide, which contracts in drying and holds all firmly. The assegai is the main weapon of the Kafir, and with it he kills his cattle, skins them, and cuts them
i” Livingstone’s Zambesi, p. 44.

<<<Page: 276>>>

pots, and shaves his head—or rather that of his friend. His other weapon is aclub; he does not use the bow and arrow.
The Bechuana assegais'” have cruel barbs on their shafts, being originally forged square and the barbs made by cutting and raising the corners. The assegai of the Damaras has
. LEE a ORs leaf-shaped, soft-iron blade
SORES GP » toot in length; it has a strong hanFic. 113.—Copper harpoon point, Cle, on which is a flowing ox-tail. Alaska. The spear of the Gran Chaco Indian of La Plata is 15 feet long; it is his principal war weapon, and is also used as a vaulting-polein mounting his horse. The Fuegain throwing-spear is shorter and has a row of barbs down one side
The harpoon-point of native copper, with unilateral barbs, is shown in Fig. 113. It is from the Atnacs of Copper River, Alaska. The harpoon used by the Ahts of Vancouver’s Island in whale-fishing has a yew handle ten feet long, on the end of which is a detachable iron barbed blade; it has a line of deer sinews connecting with the main cord of cedarbark twine laid up into a rope and having a number of inflated seal skins attached.
The fish-spear of the Frobisher Bay Eskimo, Fig. 114, has a point of iron, and incurved barbs made from sharpened nails set in flexible bone prongs, which are lashed to the short pine-wood handle. Fig. 115 is the salmon spear of the Passamaquoddy Indians. It has a long stout shaft, wooden prongs, and iron point.
Norway sent some relics of the past, the halberds and lances, Fig. 116.
Throwing-sticks are used in many parts of the world to increase the power of flight of the spear by extending the
radius of the arm in Fie. 114.— Fishthrowing. The throwspear, Frobisher Bay Eskimo. Fic. 116.—Norwegian halberds. Stick of the Australians,
18 Wood, vol. i, p. 314.
fas ZZZ
Att} ela
deities
‘supipuy Apponbowunssng fo snads-uoujpy—'sTT “Oly
Me Sete:
Lins AA CURACAO
Sas ASTANA SA ATR TAT we eee Awa Aan Sen OL nae NT LT eS AA
TT AN Bt OPC A DO at ROY ON
vara
ce oe a ae ce ey oe
Sask

<<<Page: 277>>>

called by them Waummerah'® midlah, meera, kur-wuk, is a stick'™ about three feet long. The spear lies along the arm and the stick, its rear end being against the prong on the outer end of the latter. The butt of the spear has a socket for the tooth on the end of the stick. This is sometimes a tooth of a kangaroo; in other cases of bone or of wood. The form of the wummerah varies in different parts of the island, being sometimes a mere stick
Py Ot
cara
FIG. 117.—Spear-throwing sticks, South Australia.
with a swelled hand-hold at one end and the prong at theother. Other specimens show flat boards, leaf-shaped or tapering. Itisof hard and elastic wood, and heavy enough to be used as a elub at close quarters. The spear is quivered like the Kafir assegai in throwing, and undulates like a thin black snake in its passage through the air. It is also thrown underhand, skimming and ricocheting on the ground. Figs. 117 and 118 are throwing-sticks of South Australia and Victoria, shown in the Main Building.
Fig. 119 shows the way of using it.
The plan reminds one of the Spanish method of knife-throwing, in which the fore-arm and hand are used as the projector, the knife lying in the hand, which is extended palm upward.
Although the plan of bending the spears in throwing does not appear to be universal in Australia, it is sometimes adopted to increase the force of the projection. The Pelew Islanders use a throwineg-stick about two feet long to hold the butt of the spear, which, in throwing, is bent by the left hand until it is nearly double. The spear is released by the left hand simultaneously with the sweeping motion of the right
Tage
axes
—as anny
8 av. Sor
CLL LLL hhh
cue ae
LLL LLL NLL LOL OOM ALS Be 6 AG | aN
Lag TZ LISS
eo) Seoasnaomar
Fig. 118.— Throwing-stick of Victoria, Australia,
hand and arm. The Purupurus of the Amazon," unlike all the other tribes of the region, have neither blow-gun nor bow, but project their
arrows by means of a throwing-stick (patheta).
Like the Australian
“KR. Brough Smith, “Aborigines of Victoria,” vol. i, pp. 308, 309, Figs. 88-93, and
p. 333, Figs. 146, 147.
' Wallace’s ‘‘Amazon,” p. 514.

<<<Page: 278>>>

butt of the arrow. The middle of the arrow and the handle of the palheta are held in the right hand, and the arrow is projected as from a sling. The natives are very skillful with it.
The throwing-boards used by the Northwestern Eskimo and Indians are shown in Fig. 120. They resemble the spear-casters (xuiatlatli) used by the Aztecs at the time of the Span; ish conquest. On the Fic. 119.—Australian throwing-stick. mural monuments of Mexico the gods are generally represented as using the stick to throw the javelin. The Mexican stick most resembles the upper one in Fig. 118. Some other Eskimo throwing-sticks have projections against which the butt of the spear is placed; and others (see the lower in the figure) have holes for the tail end of the spear.
The Romans used the amentum (cf. habena), a thong fastened at the center of gravity of the javelin to hurl the weapon. It is mentioned by Livy and Ovid. By giving the thong a few turns around the shaft a rotary motion could be imparted to the javelin’ in throwing. The ansa of the ansatahasta was asemicircular straphandle to a spear, like the bow on a LL sword-hilt. The
Fic. 120.—Throwing-boards of Northwestern Eskimo. aclis of the ancient Osci was a massive spear like a harpoon, with an attached line for recovering it.
The natives of New Caledonia have a javelin 15 feet long, which is discharged by a plaited cord (ownep) attached a little behind the middle of the spear. This ownep (otherwise called sipp), answering to the amentum of the ancients, but superior thereto, is a plaited cord made of combined coir fiber and fish-skin; it has a knot at one end and is worked into a loop at the other. It is wound around the spear-shaft so as to give it arotary motion in flying.'® When aspear is to be thrown the forefinger of the right hand is put into the loop, and the man balancing the weapon to find the middle takes a sailor’s half-hitch at a point behind the center of gravity. Throwing the spear he looses his grasp at once, projecting the weapon by the cord, which becomes detached as soon as the backward pull on it occurs, leaving the cord in the hand of the thrower. The ancient mentum was attached to the spear.
LL, VILLI LL pgp ee ie UOTE sig imal
ELL, Lees LLL LLL TTP A EE EG: pt MMM OE, Vili LLL EL
186 Nilson, ‘‘Stone Age,” p. 174,

<<<Page: 279>>>

Shields were in force, in Philadelphia, from Africa, Asia, Malaysia, and Australia. They were of grass, ratan, hide, wood, and other materials. Some were so large as to cover the person; others were smaller and intended to be moved to intercept a weapon; others still were long and narrow, used in parrying spear-thrusts.
Beginning with the South of Africa, the first we find is the Zulu shield
: in the department of the Cape of Good Hope. It is of ox-hide and of a long elliptical shape. The color denotes service. Black shields are for boys; white, with mottlings, for warriors. The prevalence of color or peculiar markings denotes the regiment to which the warrior belongs. The shield is strengthened by a vertical stake at the rear, which forms a handle, and projects below and above, where it forms a rest and an ornament, respectively. <A strip of black hide is passed in and out of a double row of slits, one row on each side of the stick, showing on the front of the shield like oblong markings on a white ground. Standing on its end | the shield comes up to the warrior’s eyes, the stick to the crown of his head. The shields are the property of the chief, and are apportioned to the deserving. The shapes of the shields vary among the different tribes of what may be ealled the Kafir race. Some of the shields have depressions in the sides as if a piece had been eut out, resembling the ancile or sacred shield of Numa, which was supposed to have fallen from Heaven. In some instances the depressions in the sides are so great as to make them hour-glass shaped. The Basuto Kafirs'” have a eurious shield, resembling a body with two wings. The Bechuana have a shield smaller than the Zulus and cut from the thickest part of an oxhide. The Barolongs and Batlapis have a rectangular shield, edged at top and bottom with two rounded wings.
Passing northward and reaching the latitude of Portuguese oceupation, we find the mat shield of Angola, Fig 122, made of a species of grass growing commonly in many parts of Africa. The same style of manufacture is shown almost all along the Western Coast—the baskets and mats of the Gold Coast, for instance. The grass is made into long
lp SSN
Fic. 121.—Zulu shield of ox-hide.
7 Casalis’ ‘ Basutos,” pp. 63, 135, 136; Livingstone’s “Zambesi,” Pl. opp. p. 40.

<<<Page: 280>>>

rolls, which are laid spirally, being interlaced by ratan strips which proceed from the center radially. The view shows the back of the shield with the two sticks which form the handle. The shields of Londa-land, in Equatorial Africa, on the West Coast, are made of reeds plaited together. Theshapeisoblong-square, 5 feet by 2. The Apono shields are circular and of basket-work. The shield of the Fans of the Gaboon is a piece of hide 3 feet long and 24 feet wide from the skin of the eleoe phant’s shoulder. This resists all W Xgesceescees SS the native weapons: axes, spears, ee aN arrows, or even bullets in a glancing direction.
The Egyptian collection showed a number of shields from Central Africa, trophies brought north by Long Bey from his expedition beyond Khartoom. Fig. 123 is a leathern conical shield with a handle of the same. It is 2 feet in diameter; altitude of cone, 6 inches. It is made of ox hide and has a strong leathern binding. It is ornamented to represent basket-work. Another shield exhibited was of giraffe hide and 1 foot in diameter. The Roman clipeus was a round buekler of several folds of ox hide covered with plates of metal and sometimes on a wicker-work foundation. Fig. 123 shows the strap, answering to the Roman balteus, by which the shield was suspended from the shoulder.
Zag The Dinkas of the Upper Z Acar ea) Nile“ use an ox-hideshield like
ines ere
ES eon ous it) the Kafirs. It is cut in oval form and crossed by a stick secured by being passed through holes cut in the thick leather. Allied to the shield is an instrument used among the Dinkasand Niam-niams for parrying clubs and lances, rather than actually covering the body. One Dinka instrument looks so much like a bow that it has been mistaken for one; this is called dang. The other is a neatly carved piece of wood about a yard long and with a hollow at the mid-length for the hand-grasp. A similar parrying shield
Fic. 122.—Mat shield of Angola.
Fic. 123.—Leathern shield of Uganda, Africa.
188 Wood, vol. i, p. 596. 189 Schweinfurth’s ‘‘ Africa,” vol. i, p. 155.

<<<Page: 281>>>

is found in Australia (see infra, Fig. 134). The Niam-niams use a spindle-shaped wooden implement 4 inches broad in the middle and tapering to a point at each end. It is carried in the left hand, a handle being scooped out of the center, and is used in parrying lanes and spears by means of a dexterous twist.
The wooden shield of Uganda is shown in Fig. 124. The wood is soft, ornamented with ratan and bound with leather. It is 2 feet 10 inches long, 2 feet wide, and half an inch thick. The wood projects in the center to form a boss; the handle is of ratan. A basket-work shield from Uganda, also from the Long Bey collection, is shown in Fig. 125. It is made of cane strips sewed together with ratan over ribs of split wood. It is 3 feet 8 inches long by 15 inches wide. The edge is bound with raw-hide, and in the center is a block 18 by 6inches with a handle eutinit. Itis tied to the shield with ratan,
AMHR a y SGT f=
nBn08) Nena
are K
iH WAN
rHIHTH MANY f {\
Fic. 125.—Basket-work shield, Uganda, Fic. 124.— Wooden shield, Oentral Africa. Africa.
and serves to strengthen the shield as well as afford a hold for the hand. The shield of the Niam-niams!” is plaited from the Spanish reed, and is of a long oval form covering two-thirds of the body. It is plaited in pretty patterns of black and white in crosses and is lined with leopard skin. Inside of the shield the native carries the trumbash, a peculiar inissile weapon with blades and three projecting points. See supra. The Monbuttoos who inhabit the territory south of the Niam-niams of the extreme Upper Nile waters have a wooden shield of rectangular
Schweinfurth’s “Africa,” vol. i, p. 441; vol. ii, pp. 9-11.

<<<Page: 282>>>

shape, somewhat like, but flatter than, the Roman scutum.! The shield is 4 feet by 24 feet, half an inch thick, and is hewn out of the solid block. It has a ridge-like protuberance across the middle and is stiffened and ornamented with transverse plates of copper and rotang twist. The shields are usually decorated with tails of the guinea-hog (Potamacherus), and are invariably stained black.
The shield of the Kanemboo negroes in the army of the Sultan of Borneo is about 4 by 2 feet and of an oval shape. It is of an extremely en wood, weld grows in the Ge shallow waters of Lake Tchad. The pieces of which it is made are bound together with strips of raw-hide with the hair on. These straps make a vandyked pattern across the shield and around itsedge. The Arab shield of Zanzibar” is round, 18 inches in diameter, made of rhinoceros hide, and worn at the back from the left shoulder. The Abyssinian shield is made of buffalo hide, and its convex outer surface has a boss in the Fic. 126.—Monbuttoo wooden shield,
; me Central Africa.
center. It is ornamented with the mane,
tail, and paw of a lion, if the owner has been so fortunate as to kill one ; others have silver or brass plates. Around the shield are holes, through which passes the thong by which it is suspended. It is changed so as to hang by a different hole each day, in order that it may not become warped. The Nubian shield is made of hippopotamus or crocodile skin, and has a central projecting boss formed of a separate piece of skin. It is stretched on a wooden frame-work. The notches in its perimeter are a fashion, probably the remaining impression of some ancient shape.
The shields of ancient Asia Minor and Assyria and the modern shields of India show the various shapes and materials which we have cited. The large shield of the Assyrians, used at sieges, was of wicker-work or hide; it had a curved point or a projection like a roof. It was held by a shield bearer." The oblong standing shield was referred to by Herodotus, who said ' “the Persians made a fence of their osier shields.” The Assyrians had also circular bucklers of hide or metal. The oval copper shield found by Dr. Schliemann in the excavations at Hissarlik,'” 28 feet below the surface, is 20 inches in length, quite flat, except a raised rim and. boss. Herodotus says" that the Carians invented the handle of the shield, previous to which time it had been strung by a strap from the
\ \\
MAXXn ns
Wt Smith’s Dict., Gr. & Rom. Antiq., London, 1875, p. 1013. 122 Ruschenberger’s ‘‘ Voyage Round the World,” p. 31. 193 Tliad, b. viii, 7. 319, 327; 1 Samuel, xvii, 7; Layard’s Nineveh, Pls. vii, viii. 194 Herodotus, 1. 9, c. 61. : 9% Schliemann’s ‘‘ Troy and its Remains,” Pl. xiv, opp. p. 324. US hy (eo U/l

<<<Page: 283>>>

neck. The bucklers used during the Trojan war had wooden handles.”
One circular shield shown from India was of rhinoceros hide, 18 inches in diameter, and ornamented with circular plates of iron. The round buckler of the Kurds" and Arabs are made of the hide of the hippopotamus. The Lepeha™ (Sikkim) shield is of cane with a tuft of yak hair in the middle. Theancient Singhalese?” shields were sometimes covered with plates of the chank shell (Turbinella rapa). This is yet used as an ornament in some parts of Malaysia. It is a spiral shell,?" the fishing for which is a monopoly on the Chinese coast, and is rented like the pearl fishery. The great market for the shellsis in India, where they are sawed into rings, and worn by the In-
Fic. es Ee: of dian women on theirarms, legs, yy. 128. — Wooden shield,
; toes, and fingers. In Bengal PMLCL ak the shell has a ceremonial use, and is buried with opulent and distinguished persons.
The Malaysian shields” are usually of wood. Two were shown in the Netherlands colonies collection. Fig. 127 is strengthened against splitting by transverse strips of bamboo sewed on with ratan. The wood is half an inch thick, the shield
A i Vee SUL i manatees // 4 feet long and 18 inches wide.
net , The othershield, Fig. 128, is also of wood, and belongs to the Dyaks of Borneo2” The shape is Somewhat peculiar, being narrowed in the middle and pointed
Fic. 129.—Leathern shield, Philippine Islands. above and below. In the example, the wood has bindings of ratan and tufts of human hair set in the
1% Tliad, viii, 193. 201 Bertolacei’s *‘Ceylon,” 261,
198 “Nineveh,” vol. ii, p. 266. 202 Rafile’s ‘* Java,” 4to, i, Pl. opp. p. 276. ' Hooker’s ‘‘ Himalaya,” vol. i, p. 304. 2 Wood, vol. ii, pp. 475-76.
2» Tennent’s ‘‘ Ceylon,” vol. i, p. 500,

<<<Page: 284>>>

edges. It is 4 feet long, 10 inches at the widest and 6 inches at the midlength. Other shields have beads and feathers, either separately or with the tufts of hair. The plain : wooden surfaces are sometimes painted with geometric figures.
The Philippine Islands collection had a number of shields—one of hide and a number of wood. Fig. 129 is a buckler of hide painted with geometric figures. Figs. 130 and 131 are four wooden shields of the Philippines. They are from 3 to 5 feet long and from 10 to 12 inches broad. They may also be classed among the parrying weapons, being evidently intended to glance off arrows or spear thrusts. The shield (kalasag) of the Ygorrotes of the Philippines is of wood covered on the edge with ratan, and is 19 inches in circumference. The shield of the Malakus *” of the Eastern Archipelago is narrow, of hard wood, bent to an are shape, inlaid with bits of shell, and provided witha single handle placed in thecenter. The warriors of the Solomon Islands use clubs, spears, bows and arrows. Their oval Fic. 130.— Wooden shields, Philippines. shields are of rushes so thickly plaited as to resist arrows.
The Siamese shield, Fig. 132, is indebted for its lightness, stiffness, and strength to the bamboo. It is 5 feet in height, 20 inches in width, and has two thicknesses of plaited bamboo splits, inclosing a layer of plantain or bamboo leaves.
The Chinese shield (Fig. 133) is made of ratan cane, coiled from the center outward, and interlaced with ratan splits proceeding in a general radial direction. The diameter is 82 inches, the height of the cone 8 inches. It has a cross-bar lashed by ratan splits and an arm-loop and hand-grasp similarly attached.
The Australian shields are of three general descriptions : The towerang, or mulga (Fig. 134), which is light, long, and narrow, used for warding off the blows of spears and boomerangs by a circular twist which deflects them from their course; the heilamon (gee-am) or oval shield, which covers the person more or less perfectly and receives the impact of the
= ee a A GIA:
NaN aN
ani Jagan, ‘ Philippines,” p. 210. 205 Belcher’s ‘Eastern Archipelago,” vol. ii, p. 376.

<<<Page: 285>>>

weapon; and a smaller shield held like a cricket-bat in the hand by a handle at the end. On this island continent are various tribes, with varying dialects, and _ the names of the shields are not the same in all districts. The names mulga and gee-am are those given by R. Brough Smith.2”
The towerang (mulga) or parrying shield was shown in the Victoria section of the Australian department. It is 24 or 5 feet long and used for fencing off the blows of missiles by striking them in flight.
Pear ate
Tite
aoe magia
aceih)
ea tt 1
2 Bid rH
= =eoe= === =se=5 US pea ae
Fic. 132.—Basket-work shield of FiG.131.— Wooden shields of the Philippines. Siam.
It is made from the blue-gum tree, which is relatively hard and heavy, enabling it when it strikes a flying weapon to swerve it from its flight without too great a strain on the wrist. The hand-hold is eut out of the solid back of the shield, or, when the material is thin, the ends of the handle piece are driven through the front of the shield and secured. The size given. by R. Brough Smith is 35 by 5 inches, and he states that they are usually made of iron-wood or the box-wood of the colony.
26 Aborigines of Victoria, Melbourne, 1878, pp. 330-334.

<<<Page: 286>>>

All have hand-holds, made out of the solid, and the weight is from 24 to 34 pounds. A variety of sizes and some variation of patterns are shown
Fic. 134.—Towerang or parrying elec of Austraia.
in Figs. 113-129 of his work.” The heilamon (gee-am), or war shield, used by the aboriginesof New RSG South Wales, is 2 feet long, 10 inches broad, and usually made from a solid block of wood, though sometimes from bark. The depression and hand -grasp are carved out of the
aS 4 DOTY Lorestan
Fic. 133.—Chinese shield of basket-work. (Unside.)
wood. That shown in Fig. 135'is made from the wood of the gigantic nettle-tree. In other parts of Australia the
bark of some one of the numerous Species of gum is bent to form by the application of heat, and a handle or arm-bow is lashed on. The Shape is usually a long oval, but some are of a diamond shape. The bark shield is called mulabakka. The Murray River blacks make canoes, by means of this bending process, from the bark of the teatree (melaleuca, 7. e., black and white), and from various species of eucalypti.
In the work just referred to," the larger shield, for general protection, isspokenof as generally made of green bark, which is curved by laying it upon an earthen mound of the required shape, covered
with hot embers; the bark is laid thereon and weighted with stones. It has a hand-grasp of the original wood, or one is inserted. The size is 38 by 10 inches.
The Victoria section of the Australian departme
aur Aborigines of Victoria, Melbourne, 1878, p. 300 et seq.
28 Ibid., p. 382, Figs. 131-139.
| iF ; Ly 4 ] Y) | We)
Fic. 135.—Heilamon or warshield of New South Wales.
nt showed shields of

<<<Page: 287>>>

the third kind (Fig. 136), each having a handle, so that it looked like a bat. Such a shield is 24 by i0 inches, and is made by shrinking bark into a curved shape by water and heat and stiffening it with a cross stick.
The wooden shield of Western Australia is shown in Smith’s work.”
The shield of the North American Indian is made of buffalo hide. In making it, a piece of bull-buffalo skin is selected, twice as large as the shield required. A hole is dug in the ground, as large as the future shield, and a smudge of smoke of rotten wood is made under the skin, which is pegged above. As the skin is heated, a glue made of the horns and hoofs is rubbed in hot, which causes the skin to contract, and the pegs are regularly loosened to allowit to shrink, at the same time keeping it stretched. When it has imbibed the necessary quantity of glue, and bas reached the dimensions of the hole, being twice as thick as in its natural condition, it is ready for the trimming and dressing which complete it as a shield
The Uaupé Indians of the Amazon?” use shields of wicker-work, sometimes Fic. 136.—Wooden shivlds of Victoria, Aus. CoVered with tapir skin. Sometimes the
Boke hide of the vaca marina or sea cow is used
by the Amazon Indians for making shields; it is the largest animal accessible, and its skin fills the place occupied by the rhinoceros, hippopotamus, and elephant hide in the torrid regions of Africa.
VI.— Bows AND ARROWS.
The use of poison upon arrows by savages is very ancient, and is yet found in many distant parts of the world. The very name for “poison” in Greek (toxvicon)—and the Latin is similar—is derived from the word equivalent to “arrow.” Commencing our notice of bows and arrows with South Africa, the first example we find is the poisoned arrow of the bosjesman, or bushman.”!
“But black as death, the thin-forged bitter point, That with the worm’s blood fate did erst anoint.” Death of Paris. (EARTHLY PARADISE.) This arrow is in several pieces; the head is a triangular iron plat inserted into the end of a short section of reed, which slips over a piece
° Aborigines of Victoria, Melbourne, 1878, p. 339, Fig. 148, 210Wallace’s ‘‘Amazon,” p. 504,
*\'Casalis’ Basutos, xiv; Livingstone’s Travels, p. 189; Baine’s South Africa, pp. 144, 15", 164.

<<<Page: 288>>>

of ostrich-bone socket in the reed-shaft of the arrow. In some cases the weapon consists of as many as five parts; a piece of ivory on the end of the section of reed and holding the iron point, which is daubed with poison. In each case the glutinous poison holds the iron tip, and the latter comes off in the wound. The poison is either from the putritied cocoons of an insect, the ’kaa or ngwa, of Livingstone, from the poison gland of the puff-adder, or from the Huphorbia arborescens. The arrows are carried ina neat quiver of bark sewed with sinew. The bow and quiver are slipped into a small buckskin, the neck of which is tightly bound round the bottom of the quiver, while the legs serve as belts to swing it over the shoulders. The quiver also contains the fire-stick and sucking-tube of the bushman.
The Kafir does not use the bow and arrow, although he suffers from the poisoned arrows of the bosjesman and fears their effects. The Kafir weapons are the assegai and kerrie; that is, javelin and club.
The Angola arrows, Fig. 137, have heads of steel on reed-shafts. The metal is obtained of very good quality by native methods. Their spear and javelin heads for thrusting and throwing are likewise tipped with steel. The arrow-heads shown in Fig. 137 are bound to the shafts with raw hide, grass, or ratan. The arrow-head (a) is like one form of the bosjesman arrow, in which the base of the triangular steel piece is in advance.
The poisoned arrows of the Zambesi?” and Mozambique countries are made in two pieces, after the same general plan of those of the bushman of the south. The iron barb is fastened to a wand of wood 10 inches long, which slips into a reed shaft. The wood below the arrow-head is smeared with the poison, and both the barb and the stick remain in the wound while the reed drops off. The poison is obtained from a species of strophanthus. The bow of the Zambesi Maravi’’ is intended toact as shield as well, being from 6 to Sinches broad, and used in parrying thrusts.
A Central African quiver brought by Long Bey is shown in Fig. 138. Like that of the Gold Coast it is of wood bound with leather, and has tassels of the same. A sheathed knife is attached to the quiver. The Niam-niams,”" on the extreme upper waters of the Nile, do not use the bow and arrow. The Monbuttoo,’” immediately south a them, on the
22 Livingstone’s “Zambesi,” pp. 109, 491. 214 Schweinfurth’s “Africa,” vol. ii, p9. 213 Thid., p. 583. 215 [bid., vol. i, pp. 103, 111.
Fic. 137.—Ivron arrow-heads of Angola, Africa.

<<<Page: 289>>>

Welle River, have both. The shafts of the Monbuttoo arrows are of reeds, and differ from all others of that vicinity in being winged with pieces of genet’s skin or plantain leaves. The bows are over 3 feet long, and the strings made of a strip of the split Spanish reed, which possesses more elasticity than any cord. A hollow piece of wood on the bow protects the thumb from the blow of the string. The arrow is discharged from between the middle fingers. The Dinkas”® of the Upper Nile have no bow and arrow; their weapons are lances and clubs. The Bongos?” use the lance, bow, and arrow. Their bows are 4 feet long, the arrows 3 feet, made of solid wood, and anointed with the milky juice of euphorbia. The Madi and Bari’ tribes of Central Africa also use
SSNs =—S
Fic. 138.—Quiver of Uganda, Africa.
poisoned arrows; so do the Ashantees, Fans, and Aponos of the West. The modes of handling the bow in Africa are various, and have always been so. In ancient Egypt” several modes were adopted even by the trained troops. The mural monuments show a bowman with three supplementary arrows held by the thumb, the string being pulled to the shoulder by the fingers. An arrow being discharged another one is jerked up, and three are kept in the air at atime. Another figure shows a soldier drawing a longer bow, having a larger arrow, and pulling with the thumb and finger. The Assyrians drew the bow to the cheek or to the ear, as did the Saxons—not to the breast like the Greeks. The larger Assyrian bow yas carried over the shoulder, the man first putting his head through
~ 216 Schweinfurth’s “Africa,” vol. a p. 154. 218 Baker’s Ismailia,” pl. opp. p. 185. 27 Tbid., vol. ii, p. 300, 219 Wilkinson; Kitto, vol. i, p. 452.

<<<Page: 290>>>

it. The smaller bow was carried in a quiver by the li side of the chariot along with the arrows, which were reeds with heads of iron or copper. A linen guard + was strapped to the inside of the left arm to protect Bi the arm against the blows of the string. H The bow and arrow of Queensland, Australia, are | shown in Fig. 139. The bow is 6 feet long and made 8
of the male bamboo, which is solid. The string is a strip of ratan, which is beaten to remove the flinty coating and reduce it to a bunch of fibers, which is slightly The arrow is of reed, from 3 to 5 feet long,
OL wen IML Ig py
twisted.
has no nick for the string, nor feathers for the butt. a
The arrow-head is of hard wood, smooth, knobbed, or S
barbed. As the bow and arrow are used enly in the \) 20 around the Gulf of Car-
northerly part of Australia, pentaria and in Queensland, it may reasonably be assumed that they are of foreign origin, and the knowledge of them imported from Papua.
The New Guinean”! arrow is a reed tipped with ; hard, heavy wood, grooved to receive a tapered slice of bamboo with a point made by an oblique cut. The arrow is poisoned. The bow is 6 feet in length, made from the cocoa-nut tree, and has a string of ratan. The arrows of the Solomon Islanders are tipped with fish-bones; those of the Admiralty Islands are of reed with hard-wood heads secured by ligatures of bark. The Tonga Island arrows are of reed and hard wood, the junction of the two being covered with plaited sinnet and varnished. The Andaman Islanders””’ use a bow of tough, strong wood 5 or 6 feet in length, and having two flat bulges, one on each side of the central hand-hold. The arrows are of ratan with a hard-wood head and a barb made of a fish-bone, the tail-bone of the sting-ray, or a nail when onecan be procured. The point of the arrow is sometimes poisoned.
The bow of the Philippine Islands is a slab off the side of a large bamboo, or it is sometimes made of caryota wood; the string of abaca, 3°" in diameter.”
Other arrows (pana) have shafts (gaho) of caryota wood and points (bucht) of bamboo, or sometimes the whole arrow is of wood 1” to 1.8" inlength. The heads
eae ZZ LIE
*(00QULNG a]DUL) PUNpsuaaNg) ‘N09 UNYDLSNHP— GEL OL Liles
BOs BVO). Is8 Ds 220s 222 Mouat’s ‘‘Andaman,” pp. 271, 321. NY 23 Jagor’s ‘Travels in the Philippines,” London, 1875, pp. 657, | 138, 210. S. Mis. 54——19

<<<Page: 291>>>

They have different names: buldg, bolé, serdpong, &c. They are sometimes dipped in a poisonous mixture looking like tar, and made from the mixed inspissated juices obtained from the bark of two trees. The quiver is of bamboo; the arrow is frequently a cane with a tip of hard wood (sharpened), bamboo, bone, or metal. The arrows exhibited in the Spanish Building are shown in Fig. 140.
The bow, club, and sling are not found among the primitive Dyaks or any other aborigines of Malayo-Polynesia, except the Bisayan race.* The Sagais of Borneo use the sumpitan* for propelling poisoned arrows by means of the force of the breath. The natives called a rocket a “fire sumpitan.” The blow-gun, which is similar to the zarabatana of the Macooshees?* of South America, is a tube of hard wood (Casuarina equisetifolia), 7 or 8 feet long, and with a bore of half an inch. An iron muzzle-sight is fixed upon the upper side and a spear upon the lower, the latter serving to keep the tube straight, its projecting blade also serving aS a weapon. The arrow, Fic. 140.—Iron arrow-heads of the Philippines. sumpit, is 9 inches in length, formed of a leaflet rib of the nibon palm. The point of hard wood is smeared with the deadly poison of the Upas tree, and has brittle barbs or the tail-bone of the sting-ray, which breaks off in the wound. The arrow is run through a cone of the pith of the nibon wood, which fits the bore and prevents windage. The range is variously stated at from 40 to 150 yards—from 40 to 80 yards is the more probable statement.
The common bow of India is made from the male bamboo, bound at intervals with belts of split ratan. Another form is made of horn and wood. The hand-hold and the ends are wood and the two intervening pieces are of a buffalo horn which is sawed lengthwise, flattened by heat and pressure, and fastened by long splice joints to the middle and end pieces. It is like the arcus patulus of the Romans. Sinews are laid along the back of the bow and so agglutinated by heat, moisture, and pressure that they appear to form one piece with the body of the bow. The whole is then anointed with glue and ornamented according to taste. The horn portions are principally involved in the flexure, and when the bow is unbent it recurves and assumes the shape of the letter “C,” the back being inward like the arcus sinuosus of the classic period. The bow string is of vegetable fiber. The arrow is of reed with a hard-wood
*4 Belcher’s ‘‘ Eastern Archipelago,” vol. ii, p. 338.
*° Boyle’s ‘*Dyaks of Borneo,” pp. 251, 252; Rafiles’ “Java,” 4to, vol. i, p. 296, and Pl.; Belcher’s ‘Eastern Archipelago,” vol. i, p. 227; vol. ii, pp. 133, 134.
=6 Wood, vol. i, p. 583.

<<<Page: 292>>>

pot and butt, the former receiving a quadrangular steel piece, and the latter the feathers and the notch for the string. Another Indian arrow has a wooden shaft with barbed head lashed to the shaft with twine, and ‘“feathered,” so to speak, with dry leaves set in slits in the butt of the arrow.
The maritime people of Ceylon are largely from the Malabar coast of India and are dis tinct both from the Singhalese, the principal nation of the island, and from the Veddahs, the wild aborigines who still inhabit the less accessible forests. The Singhalese chronicles record that the Malabar arrows were sometimes ‘drenched with the poison of serpents.” *”
The Veddahs* are expert with the bow, which they hold in the right hand and draw the string with the left. The bow is 6 fect long, and the arrow 3 feet. Iron arrow blades *° are the only articles of foreign manufacture which they covet. Another Veddah bow is sprung by the feet,*' the string being held by both hands, the archer lying upon his back. This unusual mode is mentioned by Arrian,” and is practiced by the Cabaclos of Brazil** and the Gran Chacos of La Plata.
The Tartars and Chinese use a bow which assumes a recurved form when unstrung. The example shown in Fig. 141 was upon the effigy of aChinese soldierin the Mineral Annex to the Main Building. It is nearly 6 feet in length and a few inches from each end is a bone stud over which the string passes. The bow is bent by placing it behind the right thigh and in front of the left, then bending it by a sudden stoop of the body throwing the force on the right leg, and, by a quick motion, catching the string over the end of the bow and into the notch. The body of the bow is a bent bamboo strip of the solid variety, and to its ends wooden pieces are lashed with sinews. It has acord string. The shape is exactly that of the Seythian bow (arcus scythicus) as shown on
*M0q Uapoom asau1yO— TFL
227 Tennent’s ‘‘ Veylon,” vol. i, p. 500. 231 Tennent’s ‘‘ Ceylon,” vol. i, p. 499. . y) ") ? ? 228 Knox, “Ceylon,” 61. 232 Indica, 1. xvi. ) d ? b)
29H. S., “Ceylon,” London, 1876, vol. i. 3 Fletcher & Kidder’s “ Brazil,” p. 548.
230 Forbes’ ‘‘Ceylon,” vol. ii, p. 78.

<<<Page: 293>>>

classic vases and gems.
Siebold’s great work. The bow of the North American Indian is seldom much over 4 feet
Fic. 142.—Siouax Indian bow of mountain sheep's horns.
long and is always used on horseback; his remarkable for accuracy, but he discharges
The Japanese bows and arrows are shown in
aim is not the arrows
with great force and rapidity. The bow ismade of wood,
bone, or iron. An ash bow with the sinews
of the buf-
falo or deer worked into the back is no contemptible weapon either to draw or to face. ‘The bow, Fig. 142, like the Roman arcus patulus, is made of several horns
spliced together. In the present case, the horns are those of the mountain sheep, Ovis Montana. They are made by heating the horns in hot ashes and drawing them out, then splicing pieces together with bands of deer sinew. Thejoints are hidden by ornamental coverings of cloth, skin, or dyed porcupine quills. Such bows are valued at the price of two horses, as the horns of which they are made must be obtained by barter with Rocky Mountain Indians. The arrow isof wood orreed and headed with flint, bone, or iron. Indian arrow-heads are the most common article in the American sections of ethnological museums, and show wide difference in shape, material, and size. The example, Fig. 143, has a point of chipped chalcedony. Fig. 144 also shows chipped flint arrow-heads of the Pai-Utes of Southern Utah. They are cemented and bound to the wooden shafts.
The Indians of the California peninsula make bows of willow-root, and attach strings of intestines. Their arrows are of reed with triangular hard-wood heads.” Flint arrowheads of Terra del Fuego, and of the stone age of Sweden, are shown and deseribed in Nilson,” and those of the dwellers on the pile villages of the Swiss lakes, in Desor’s work.” Bone arrow points and bows of yew
are also found in the same loealities.2*
FIG. 143.—Sioux stone-pointed arrow, Dakota.
st “Nippon,” vi, Pl. 1, bis; vii, Pl. 19, Figs. 1, 1, a, 2; v1, Pl. 22; see also Ibid. ii,
Pl. 5, for bows and arrows in great variety.
Stone age, Plate v, and pages i, 43-5. * Translation in Smithsonian Report, 1865, p. 374, 356. ** Morlot. Translaticn in Smithsonian Report, 1862, p. 376.
Also upper row in Pl. 15 and 21, vol. ii. Baegart, in Smithsonian Report., 1863, pp. 362, 3.

<<<Page: 294>>>

SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION. 29a"
The Oregon Indians make their bows of cypress, Cupressus Lawsoniana, or of yew, Taxus brevifolia. The wood is strengthened on the back with sinew, in the manner so common throughout the Northwest, The string is of sinew and the arrow of reed pointed with obsidian. The arrow-head is chipped to form by a tool similar to that by which the glazier nibbles his glass to shape. The feathers of the arrow are set on spirally. Poison for the arrow-heads is
made by causing a rattlesnake to strike its fangs into liver, which is then allowed to putrify and the arrows are smeared therewith. py. 144 chipped flint arrowThe bow of the Ahts of Vancouver's Island*? Bends SOLO is also of wood fortified with sinews. The arrow is large and has a barbed bone lip; the arrow for fish has two tips barbed on the inside like the Australian fishing-spear, and clasps any object it may come across. The feathering of the arrow is put 6n spirally. The Alts have also an arrow with a detachable barbed bone point, connected by two cords with the ‘shaft, with which they form an equilateral triangle ; the shaft impedes the Sea in its motions and acts as a float. The same feature is common in. Eskimo harpoons.
Fhe bow of the Kutchin tribes of the Mackenzie and Youcon Rivers are of willow, 5 feet long and with an enlargement at the grasp to protect the hand against the snap of the string. The arrows are of pine; arrow-head of bone of wild-fowl, or of bone tipped with iron for moose or deer.
The bow of the Greenland Eskimo is made of horn, bone, or wood, re-enforced on the outer side with a multitude of deer sinews, which are put on so tight as to give the bow some backward curvature. Its average length is 31 feet. The bow string is twisted deer sinews. The Eskimo arrows are of wood tipped with bone or stone; or in some cases of wood and bone tipped with iron. Bow and arrows are in a quiver of seal-skin. Fig. 145 shows three arrowheads in the Greenland division of the Danish department; the left-hand is of bone and the others of stone. The Eskimo uses a wrist-guard of bone plates tied together and fastened by a button and loop; it receives the blow of the bow-string.
In the warmer regions of America, like the countries to which we have referred, the poisoned arrow is no new thing. HerFiG. 145.—Eskimo arrows, Greenland. yrerg, the Spanish adventurer, died from the effects of a poisoned arrow. De Soto’s historians*' mention arrows barbed with flint, arrows without barbs, arrows of reed tipped with
239 Wood, vol. ii, p. 725. 240 Seepasonian nae 1866, p. 322. #41 Irving, op. cit.. pp. 191, 195, 225.

<<<Page: 295>>>

lozenge-shaped buck’s-horn plates, and arrows tipped with fish-bones, with palm spikes, and with hard wood.
The zarabatana’ or blow-gun of the Guiana tribes is made in two pieces, each of which has a semi-cylindrical groove, so that the two form a perfect tube when bound together with spiral strips of the pliable jacitara wood. The outside is covered with wax and resin. A trumpetshaped mouth-piece directs the wind from the mouth and lungs into the tube when the lips are suddenly opened ; the puff seems to be directly from the chest. The blow-gun is 12 feet long and quite heavy. A lighter gun, pucuna, of the same region, is made of a ten or fifteen feet section of a reed (Arundinaria Schombergii), which grows in a limited region on the Upper Orinoco, and has a length of over 12 feet between the joints of its lower portion. This reed forms the ourah or barrel and is slipped into a stick of palm (Jreartia setigera) from which the pith has been pushed out. The mouth-piece end is bound with silk grass and the other end fortified with the half of an acuero nut, which also forms the muzzle sight. The breech sight is made of two incisor teeth of a cavy, which are secured with wax to the tube, the depression between the teeth being the valley sight. The gun is held in the left hand, the elbow of that arm resting on the hip. The right hand grasps the tube near the mouth-piece, and the gun is raised by bending the body. It weighs about a pound and a half—but a fraction of the weight of the zarabatana. The arrow is made of the leaf rib of the coucourite palm. It is 10 inches in length, about the size of a crowquill, is pointed by means of a fish-tooth scraper, and is fitted to the bore with a pledget of wild cotton (Bombax ceiba). The arrows depend, like the swmpits of the Dyaks, upon their sharp poisoned tips. The poison is obtained from the wourali vine (Strychnos toxifera) and a bitter root, the hyarri, to which are added poisonous ants, poison fangs of snakes, and other things to give effect to the stuff, or to conceal the real ingredients, as the composition is a secret in the hands of the conjuror. The poison has an instantaneous numbing effect, the victim seeming void of pain or fear, dropping immediately, and dying in a short time without a struggle. The arrows are kept ina “quiver” or in a “roll,” and each is cut deeply near the head, so that the poisoned portion may break off in the wound. The range is from 50 to 100 yards. A modification of the arrow is one in which, instead of the cotton, a piece of bark is placed spirally on the stem of the arrow, terminating in a hollow cone, which fills the bore when the cone is expanded by the wind; a singular anticipation of the hollow-base Minie bullet, which is expanded into the grooves of the rifle by the evolution of gases due to the explosion of the powder. A piece or two of bark, laid spirally on the arrow-shaft, feather the arrow, and make it revolve in flying. This is equivalent to the rifling of a gun. This arrow is tipped with a small piece of iron.
242 Wood, vol. ii, p. 583.

<<<Page: 296>>>

For war or for killing the tapir or jaguar, an arrow 6 feet long is made of a reed, having for a head a hard-wood spike, an iron point, or the tail bone of the sting-ray. Poison is used on either. The arrow is projected by a bow.
The blow-gun of the Uaupés of the Amazon is called the gravatana, and is made of two stems of the small palm Jreartia setigira, one slipping within the other so as mutually to correct curvatures. The pith is pushed out, and a conical mouth-piece fitted to one end. Arrows are made from the spinous processes of the patawa (dfnocarpus batarea), pointed and anointed with poison of the wourali. The butt of the arrow carries a little tuft of tree cotton to make it fit in the tube.
The ordinary bow of the Uaupés,”* the aboriginal Indians of Brazil, is of different kinds of hard elastic wood, and is from 5 to 6 feet long. The string is either of the tucum leaf-fiber (Astrocaryum vulgare), or the inner bark of trees called tururi. The arrows are 5 feet long or over, are made of the flower-stalk of the arrow-grass, and are tipped with hard wood, barbed with the serrated spine of the sting-ray. For war, the head is anointed with poison, and is notched in two or three places so as to break off in the wound. Arrows for shooting fish have usually iron heads, bought of the traders, but others are made of monkey’s bones and barbed. The arrows have three feathers laid on spirally.
The Indians of the Amazon also use a two-stringed bow for shooting stones. The pellet bow has a pad or net in the middle of the string, to hold a stone or ball of clay, to project it in the manner of an arrow. Such are used in South America and Africa.?*
The arrow of the Guianians, used in shooting turtles, is projected by a bow and has a movable harpoon-head of iron detachable from the shaft, but secured loosely thereto by a thong. The turtle-shooting bow of the Central American Indians is made from the Soupar palm, Guilielma speciosa; the shafts of the arrows from the dry stalks of the cane, saccharinum oficinarum, tipped with hard wood or iron.
The Peruvian arrows were tipped with copper or bone.“
The arrows of the Paraguayan Indians are of several kinds. Some have block points to kill birds without bleeding them; others with long wooden four-sided heads, sharpened and cut into barbs. These heads are carefully Jashed on to the shaft, which is in all cases of cane. The arrows were shown in the Agricultural Building, are from 3 to 4 feet long, and have feather flyers put on straight.
The Gran Chaco Indian of the La Plata region,?” destitute of habitation himself, employs fire-arrows when attacking a settlement. He binds some cotton around the head of each arrow just behind the head, and then lying down he holds the large bow with his feet while he draws the
43 Wallace’s Amazon, pp. 214, 215.
244 Thid., pp. 486, 487.
245 See Tylor’s ‘‘ Early History of Mankind,” notes, p. 177. 246 “Conquest of Peru,” p. 73.
*47 Wood, vol. ii, p. 570.

<<<Page: 297>>>

string with both hands and lets fly the lighted arrows one after the other, with considerable rapidity. The malleolus of the Romans was a large missile like a distaff with an arrow-point; the cage of the distaff was filled with tow steeped in pitch. It was lighted before being discharged, and it was intended that the arrow should penetrate the wooden object or thatch and hold it while the incendiary material should set tire to the building.
The Fuegian bow is strung with twisted sinews; the arrow is of hard wood and has a notch in the end, holding a piece of flint or obsidian, which comes off in the wound.
We may conclude this account of savage weapons by some references to the cross-bow. This was shown in the Norwegian Department in the Main Building, and is a remnant of me-
Fé. 146.—Paraguayan arrows. digval times. The instrument, however, 1s found in use in several parts of the world, and some of the African and Asiatic examples show more ingenuity than the European weapons with which we are more familiar.
The Norwegian cross-bow, Fig. 147, has a stock 30 inches long with a 24-inch powerful steel bow. The stock is handsomely inlaid with ivory; the string is a covered cord, and the boltis shown in its groove. The Roman scorpio was perhaps the oldest instrument of the kind on record, and was used to discharge stones, plummets, and = arrows. We find cross-bows among the Fans of the Gaboons in Western Africa; the Mishni, a tribe of Assam Fic. 147.—Norwegian cross-bow. in Eastern India; the Nicobar Islanders**; the Chinese and the Japanese™.
The cross-bow of the Fans is 5 feet long and has a very strong bow 2 feet long, which is bent by holding it with the feet while both hands strain the string into the notch. The string is thrust out of the notch by a clumsily ingenious arrangement. The shaft is split so that the forward end of the lower portion has a limited motion up and down, the split terminating at a point a little forward of the string-notch. To the lower portion is attached a peg which extends upward through a hole to thrust the string out of the notch. A trigger-pin lies in the split of the shaft and holds the portions apart so that the string can lie in the
249Siebold’s ‘‘ Nippon,” vol. ii, Pl. 5 bis.
*48'Wood, vol. ii, p. 220.

<<<Page: 298>>>

notch; but as soon as the trigger-pin is removed the separated portions fly together, the pin rises, lifts the string, and the arrow is discharged. The Chinese have a somewhat similar method. The arrows of the Fan cross-bow are small and light, and about a foot in length. Their range is about 20 yards, and they owe their efficiency to their poisoned tips. When laid in the groove of the shaft to be discharged, the arrow is slightly held by a piece of wax. A larger arrow with an iron head is used in hunting.
The Japanese have also a cross-bow. The repeating Chinese cross-bow: is perhaps the greatest advance in this implement, which has been so entirely superseded in Europe. The magazine is above a movable block which has a slot in which the string moves, and the whole block is movable back and forth in the main stock by a lever attached to the latter and shackled to the block. As the lever is raised the block slides forward until the string of the unbent bow drops into a notch. This allows an arrow to fall out of the magazine into the slot. Now draw back the lever; this action draws upon the bow-string and bends the bow in the first place, and when the lever is depressed to its fullest extent a pin in the block comes against the stock and is pushed up so as to lift the string out of the notch and discharge the arrow. The limit of speed in firing is the quickness with which the lever, is lifted and depressed. The bow is made of three thicknesses of the male bamboo, overlapping like the plates of an elliptic carriage spring. The string is a thick twisted gut. The arrows are straight, both with heavy steel heads and very slight spiral feathers. Its utmost range is possibly 200 yards.

<<<Page: 299>>>

eer ¢ ’ vith) ; we b
mis beh alana ae “se (8 ESET
hea ¢ K oat} atk vitae ‘7 tie ay i \ ' \ Tepty an 7: Voemey ‘nisS § ir o 7 (sou Ate rit 4 ody! pee geet chin ois vi , : ~ > ¢ (r= ee A > 1A { ie a } 2 +3 taf Sd 5 ian i ‘a ii i hel 4 ee eT i mbhid 7 “ r ae, . ‘ f os 4 =pet * L ee F . ‘ aM Paar
ee he

<<<Page: 300>>>

Prepared under the direction of Prof. Oris T. Mason.
A report made at the request of the legation of Austria-Hungary in Copenhagen. By J. J. A. WORSAAE.
(As requests have frequently been received from institutions and individuals in many countries, as France, England, Sweden, and Finland, for information relative to the measures undertaken in Denmark for ethnological explorations and the preservation of antiquities and national monuments, it has been thought proper to publish the present report, made at the end of 1875, particularly since there exists no work of a similar character in the archeological literature of Denmark.)
Up to the commencement of this century, there was no public collection in Denmark devoted especially to national antiquities. A few objects found in the country were, indeed, preserved in the Cabinet of Arts (Kunstkammer), founded by King Frederick III, in the latter half of the seventeenth century (1648-1670), and containing, according to the fashion of the times, antiquities of all lands, medals, specimens of natural history, objects of ethnography and art, furniture, and curiosities, thrown together pell-mell. But these rareties were obtained mainly from accidental finds, and not from careful explorations. They were principally objects of gold and silver exhumed in various places, and belonging to the class called ddnefw (in old Norwegian ddnarfe, from fe, “property,” and ddnar, “of a dead man”). The Danish law, (5-9-3, authoritatively interpreted by the ordinance of March 22,1737), in effect granted to the king, or to the crown, in accordance with an immemorial custom, all treasure or deposit of gold, silver, and precious objects, without an owner, found in tle earth; and the finder was bound, under certain penalties, to turn over his stock to the treasury without any indemnity. But since under this system many precious objects were sold and melted up secretly, to the prejudice of archeological science, an ordinance was passed August 7, 1752, which claimed for the crown the right of danef@, under the same penalties, but granted to the finder the full value of the metal, except when the proprietor of the soil had caused explorations to be made with the express purpose of seeking treasures, or when that which should be discovered in the monuments
* Translated from the French translation of E. Beauvois. The Danish text: Om Bevaringen af de fedrelandske Oldsager og Mindesmerker i Danmark, appeared in ‘‘ Aarb¢ger for nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie,” 1877, pp. 1-19. 299

<<<Page: 301>>>

explored by his orders, was expressly reserved. Experience has shown that this plan was practical and very advantageous to the public colleetions, and especially since it is generally known in Denmark that the finder will obtain from the State (the agents of which examine and appraise the articles found) not only a higher price than private persons would pay, but that the care taken in collecting and preserving the objeets will be recompensed by an honorarium added to the price of the metal. Moreover, in recent times, England, in modifying the ancient rigorous laws regarding treasure-trove, has taken very particularly into account the Danish legislation and experience acquired in this matter.
With the exception of penalties proyided against the unlawful detainers of danefe, the law had no provision concerning the bestowal of the objects, nor prohibition against selling them in the country or to foreigners.
At the commencement of this century Professor R. Nyerup, with a view to prevent the increasing destruction of national antiquities, commenced to make a special collection of them, and the people everywhere having been invited to “lay their offerings upon the altar of their country,” in order to exhibit the progress of civilization in Denmark from the most ancient times to our day, the government took the affair in hand, and established a royal commission for the preservation of antiquities (1807), charging them to look to the preservation of monuments as well as of antiquities throughout the realm. This commission was replaced in 1849 by a committee of two directors, the curator of the Museum of Northern Antiquities, (M. Thomsen,) and the inspector of ancient monuments, (M. Worsaae,) who were to act in concert in preserving the antiquities of the kingdom in general. In 1866 the two offices were united, together with the historic and ethnographic collections, under the control of one man, Professor Worsaae, in order that the regulations concerning the matter might be applied with more uniformity and efficiency. This organization is still in existence.
The first commission founded the collection which has become the Royal Museum of Northern Antiquities, but it was only after 1815, and under the direction of Thomsen, that it acquired any importance; when, having been made a national institution, under the jurisdiction of the minister of education, it figured annually in the financial report. Besides its regular appropriation, it has, as before, a special fund for the purchase of danefiv, and may obtain, when necessary, large sums of money to purchase collections, or to make extraordinary explorations. At relatively little expense the museum has been elevated to great importance. It has acquired successively the national antiquities preserved formerly in the Cabinet of Arts, the Cabinet of Medals, and other collections; moreover, it has been enriched by donations and by the results of diggings in different parts of the kingdom, until it contains between 40,000 and 50,000 articles actually on exhibition in the Prince’s palace. The number of relics coming in from all parts of the kingdom is increasing to such an extent that the idea of erecting a grand museum for the

<<<Page: 302>>>

national collections becomes more and more popular. To the museum are annexed the publie archives, which contain, besides an archwclogical and topographical library, designs, and descriptions of remarkable finds, as well as of monuments scattered over the country.
It was found necessary to interest the people in the progress of the museum, and to evoke and foster this interest the directors adopted the following means:
1. To admit the public at all times to visit the collections, and to explain the objects to visitors. Later, when the accessions to the museum and the number of visitors no longer permitted giving oral instruction to all, the directors published guide-books in several languages.
2. To publish in the’ journals the list of objects sent or given.
3. To publish populat treatises upon the antiquities and their signifieation, a task in which the museum has been ably seconded by the Society of Northern Antiquaries.
4, To hold popular conferences at Copenhagen and elsewhere.
5. To form small collections—especially for the instruction of vouth— in the provinces, the principal ¢:ties, in scientific schools, high schools, and normal schools.
6. To interest in the work the priests, instructors, and eminent citizens, who have influence with the people, and who will oversee their labors.
7. To distribute money, books, and other presents to those who distinguish themselves by their zeal and care in collecting and preserving antiquities.
As the fruit of these measures, it rarely happens that important treasures when found do not come promptly to the knowledge of the museum: the objects are ordinarily forwarded at once. The small public collections of the provinces, which have a superintendence independent of the state, have adopted the plan of offering to the central museum at Copenhagen such objects as are especially interesting and instructive, and of demanding in exchange duplicates of more common specimens. By reason of a strong national sentiment, the people make it a point of honor to collect material for the history of prehistoric times, so that it is no longer necessary to prohibit the exportation of relies of stone, bronze, aud iron. The museum has fostered the spirit of spontaneousness, and, instead of discouraging, has favored the formation of private collections. [Experience has shown that this is the proper way to save from destruction many objects which otherwise would have been lost, the private collections sooner or later becoming incorporated into the National Museum.
As to the plan of the museum and its interior arrangement, the details are amply set forth in the printed descriptions.* It should be
*Museet for de Nordiske Oldsager, en kort Ledetraad for de Beségende. 12mo. Copenhagen, 6th edition, 1874,—Guide Tlustré du Musée des Antiquités du Nord & Copeshague. 8vo. 3d edition, 1866,—Das Museum fiir nordische Alterthiimer. 8vo. Copenhagen. 2d edition, 1876. All by M. C. Engelhardt,

<<<Page: 303>>>

remarked that in general this institution aims to explain the method of colonization of Denmark, its relations with other countries, and the progress of its indigenous civilization in pagan times (from the beginning of the stone age to A. D. 1030); in the Catholic period (to A. D. 1536); finally, after the Reformation, in the short period during which the ancient style of the Renaissance obtained, or, indeed, to the establishment of absolute power in Denmark (A. D. 1660).
In the classification of objects, chronology has been rigorously observed as far as this has been gradually worked out. We no longer confine ourselves, as at first, to arranging the specimens of the pagan era into great periods, simply the age of stone, the age of bronze, and the age of iron; but we are forced to distinguish in each of these that which belongs to the commencement or to the end, and also to the transition from one to the other, in order to show clearly the gradual progress of civilization and its passage from one primitive station to another more advanced, and finally to discriminate between foreign influence and the national and more independent labors. It has been a matter of particular importance in this regard only to class by series those objects found isolated, while the great finds of each period have not been dissociated, but preserved in their entirety and arranged geographically. Thus it is possible not only to distinguish the objects of each period, and, indeed, of each subdivision, but to recognize the peculiarities belonging to the different sections of Denmark, whose southern and western provinces were evidently affected much earlier than the northern and eastern by foreign civilization, while the culture, coming from the south, penetrated earlier into Denmark itself than into the more northern and distant countries of Scandinavia—Sweden and Norway.
In connection with the Museum of Northern Antiquities and the Cabinet of Medals,* it is necessary to mention the Museum of Ethnographyt and the Cabinet of Antiquest as terms of comparison, which from many points of view furnish valuable explanations of Danish antiquities. But, as is perfectly natural in Danish museums, the principal effort is directed toward making the most complete collections possible of all that characterizes particularly the civilization of this country.
But we do not stop in our historico-archological museums at the year 1660, the limit adopted for the Museum of Northern Antiquities. In the conviction that modern history, from 1660 to the present time, deserves, not less than ancient history, to be illustrated by contempo-
*Den Kgl. Myntog Medaille-Samling paa Prindsens Palais. (The Royal Cabinet of Coins and Medals at the Palace of the Prince.) Visitors’ Guide. 8vo. Copenhagen, 1869,
tC. L. Steinhauer. Kort Vejledning i det Kgl. ethnographiske Museum. (Guide to the Royal Ethnographic Museum.) 8vo. Copenhagen, 1874. Das kgl. ethnograph. Museum in Copenhagen. S8vo. Copenhagen. 1876.
tL. Miiller. Den Kgl. Antiksamling Haandkatalog. (Catalogue of the Royal Collection of Antiques.) 8vo. 2d edition, Copenhagen, 1872.

<<<Page: 304>>>

rary and characteristic specimens (a method of studying the subject up to this time too much neglected in most countries), a historical museum has been established in the ancient castle of Rosenborg, at Copenhagen, built by Christian IV, from 1610-1617, which bears the name of “The Chronological Collection of the Danish Kings.” This museum, under the direction of Professor Worsaae, forms the complement to that of the Museum of Northern Antiquities. It embraces, in fact, the period comprised between Christian IV and the death of King Frederick VII (1863), particularly the whole period of the absolute monarchy, from 1660 to 1848, In the halls, which by a happy coincidence have partly preserved the successive styles of the different epochs, there has been arranged around the royal house as a center, and in a rigorously chronological order, a rich and valuable collection of portraits, representing members of the royal family and celebrated men of their times; costumes, furniture, ornaments, arms, and other objects which characterize the style of each epoch, of which the printed descriptions will give a clearer idea.* This museum, in which the crown jewels are preserved contains also valuable materials for the history of industry and art, and of the recent progress of civilizationin Denmark. The chronological collection, which is a trust of the royal family placed under the control of the government, has, as such, a distinguished board of managers, consisting of the minister of publie instruction, as the representative of the state, and one of the principal functionaries of the court, as the representative of the royal family. Moreover, the expense of increasing and preserving the collection is charged to the public treasury.
Tt was in the time of Christian IV, from 1610 to 1648, that measures were first taken for the preservation of the principal remains of antiquity going to decay. By order of the king, several great runic stones were transported from different localities to Copenhagen, where many were destroyed in the fire of 1728; those which were saved are now preserved in the Museum of Northern Antiquities. But during the remainder of the seventeenth and all of the eighteenth century the state did nothing for the national monuments, of which a large number disappeared, or were much damaged by pretended restorations.
It was only after the royal commission for the preservation of antiquities had been established, in 1807, that any serious attempt was made to preserve that which there was still hope of saving. After having received from the pastors throughout the kingdom reports—often very
* Carl Andersen. De danske Kongers chronologiske Samling paa Rosenberg (Chronological Collection of the Danish Kings at Rosenberg), 8vo, 3d edition. Copenhagen, 1875. Die chronol.Sammlung der Diin. Kénige, 8vo, Copenhagen, 1872. Mindeblade' fra de danske Kongers chronol. Samling (Souvenirs of the Chronological Collection of the Danish Kings), 4to, 2d edition. Copenhagen, 1875. Notes on the chron. collection of the Danish Kings, 4 to. Copenhagen, 1868.—Dr. C. Brock. Den Oldenborgske Kongeslegt iseer under Eneveelden (The Dynasty of Oldenburg in the Times of Absolutism), 8vo. Copenhagen, 1870.

<<<Page: 305>>>

imperfect—concerning the condition of the monuments, the Danish department of justice (Chancellerie), at the instance of the commission, placed under the protection of the law a number of the monuments of antiquity and of the middle ages throughout the country (1809-1810).* At first the legality of this measure was doubtful; the proprietors not being bound by any law to cede their right to these monuments, especially without a proyision of indemnity; moreover, in those cases where no opposition was made, the fact that they had been taken by the government was not registered in legal form so as to bar future purchasers of the property.
The consequences of this omission did not fail to be felt the more, since the commission, not receiving any salary, and having only small appropriations for their object, had not the means to employ competent men to inspect the monuments scattered throughout the kingdom. Moreover, many objects disappeared, little by little, without the knowledge of the commission, or without their being able to prosecute the guilty parties.
However, an effort was made to induce the proprietors to relinquish, voluntarily, their rights to the relics, and to place them under the protection of the law; and in a great number of cases the end was attained. Specimens were also bought, when the price was not too high. From official inquiries made in 1847, it appeared that a great number of monuments declared national in 1869-1810 were entirely destroyed or partially damaged, and the necessity of having recourse to more efficacious measures was evident. By a royal decree of December 22, 1847, a salaried officer, Professor Worsaae was added to the commission, and charged especially as inspector, and later as director, to look after the preservation of archaological monuments, and under this title he received the royal commission March 20, 1848. A sum of money was annually placed at his disposal for the purchase, restoration, and sketching of the monuments, and for diggings and expeditions, in which he was authorized to act in the name of the commission.
As the conviction had gained ground that it was unnecessary to prohibit the traffic and exportation of treasures, so it was agreed to follow the same liberal policy as to the seizure of national monuments, and, in 1848, the government did not think it advisable to give sanction to a project designed to apply the right of eminent domain in the ease of proprietors who were recalcitrant, or who demanded too much indemnity.
The newly appointed inspectors of archeological remains, after having labored a year and a half in concert with the commission for the preservation of antiquities, up to the dissolution of the last-named body in August, 1849, were afterward placcd in an entirely independent po-
*The list of these monuments is printed in the Antikvariske Annaler (Archeological Annals), published by the Royal Commission for the Preservation of Antiquities, I. Evo, Copenhagen, 1512, pp. 133-145, 318-379. °
tIt is printed in Antikvarish Tidsskrift (Archeological Review), 1846-48, pp. 150-153, and in Reseriptsamling (Collection of Ordinanecs), by Ussing.

<<<Page: 306>>>

sition, and, indeed, in more favorable circumstances. On the one hand, they had to convert into full proprietorship numbers of leases which had belonged to the state, to public foundations, to fiefs, to trusts, and to private individuals; on the other hand, the increase of prosperity had developed the taste for the restoration of ancient castles, churches, and other remarkable monuments.
‘I. Relative to the seizure in the name of the state of stone heaps, fanereal mounds, runic stones, fortifications, ruins of castles &e., the government passed an ordinance in 1848 that all structures of this kind existing in the royal domains and in the forests of the state should be declared national property, and that if any part of the national domain should be alienated, these structures should be expressly reserved by the state and clearly designated in the articles of sale. At that time the archeological director traveled over the country to make a list and a description of such objects as deserved to be saved. At the instance of the archeological commission (July, 1848), the minister of justice invited the directors of religious foundations and the holders of fiefs and trusts to make the same reservation in favor of the state upon leasing or sellirg their property. Moreover, the antiquarian commission (July 8, 1849), and later the director of monuments and of the museum (November, 1849), addressed printed circulars to all the landholders of the kingdom to induce them to make the same reservations, and many of them submitted to it with the greatest good will. In this way, without much expense, a great number of important and characteristic monuments were placed under the protection of the law. <Although in many cases the reservations announced in the leases and acts of sale were not stated so clearly as to avoid all conflict concerning tenure, yet a basis was established upon which to build in the future. In the numerous excursions made each year by the director of ancient monuments, frequently accompanied by artists who measured and sketched the different kinds of remains throughout the kingdom, and in his persenal relations with the people, he acquired for the state a great number of relics, some of which were sold at a reasonable price, others given gratuitously—indeed, by yeomen hardly able to do it. These journeys, which helped greatly to call the attention of the people of different localities to the fact that such monuments had been declared national property, had also the effect of bringing to light movable objects, such as runic inscriptions, tombs, fragments of architecture, Nce., which were exposed to great risks, and of securing for the National Museum important works of antiquity.
By reason of the close connection of the Archeological Bureau with the National Archxological Museum, in the archives of which all the sketches made in the journeys of inspection were deposited, it was agreed to prepare as soon as possible an archeological chart of each parish, on which should be indicated with precision the structures. sub-
S. Mis. 5420

<<<Page: 307>>>

jected to the ravages of time, and to prepare thus the material for the great archeological chart of the kingdom. ‘To guide the pastors, teachers, and others who desired to cooperate in this work, a cireular was distributed in 1849, upon which were noted the signs adopted for the difterent classes of objects. As the needed funds were not voted for the enterprise, which was paid for by private subscription, archeological topography was executed but slowly. :
Notwithstanding the progress of the work of preservation, it was evident that a director residing at Copenhagen, could accomplish but little and would not be able to inspect properly the numerous monuments scattered throughout the country, now more than ever exposed to destruction by reason of clearings, restoration of buildings, construction of railroads, &e. By a circular of November “0, 1866, the directors of monuments addressed the curators of the archeological collections in the cathedral cities of Denmark and Iceland and proposed to them to form diocesan commissions, composed of residents having the greatest taste for archeology, and to nominate diocesan inspectors to work in concert with the central directory at Copenhagen for the preservation of the monuments of each diocese. But although this project obtained numerous adherents, by reason of the failure of pecuniary resources it was not put into execution, as it was desirable that it should be, and as it probably will be in the future.
Meanwhile justifiable complaints continued to be made concerning the destruction of national monuments, and as the directors had not sufficient funds to arrest these ravages, they made an appeal, through the minister of public instruction, to the Danish parliament, which had often given proof of its good will in this matter, and solicited the means for making a complete investigation and for placing under the protection of the law all the most important monuments of the country; the proposition, amply seconded, February 8, 1873, expressed the following views:
1. That an inquiry as thorough as possible should be made into all the relics of antiquity existing in Denmark.
2. That this inquiry should be confided to archeologists and designers, Whose duty it should be to make plans, sketches, and descriptions of the most important monuments, notably of those which deserve to be in the future placed under the protection of the law.
3. That in order to arrive at this result, if it could not be obtained otherwise, the government should negotiate with the proprietors for the purchase of the said monuments.
4, That there should be annually appropriated for these acquisitions, for about ten years, a sum of 3,500 rigsdalers ($1,900).
These propositions were adopted unanimously by the parliament, as well for the fiscal year from April 1, 1873, to March 31, 1874, as for the following years.
In consequence, the archeological bureau has been able during

<<<Page: 308>>>

the past few years to send out several committees of inquiry, composed each of an archeologist and a draughtsman, in the different divisions of the kingdom, where they have met the heartiest reception. Many relics have been already bought by the state, and others have been offered gratuitously by the farmers. Besides the archeological charts, which have been prepared, sketches of many objects have been made, which will be of inestimable value in the future study of art in Denmark, and which, in a practical point of view, will be useful in the restoration of ancient edifices which are now undertaken in our kingdom toa previously unknown extent. -
Il. Private individuals, as well as the state, are exhibiting great activity in the restoration of ancient forts and castles, churches and other edifices of the middle ages and modern times. This movement has manifested itself in the last twenty years as the outgrowth of the development of artistic taste, of a national sentiment, and of the religous life, and in concert with the continued improvement in business. While formerly little account was made of the architectural style appropriate to different edifices, the directory of monuments is obliged to consider it in all those restored by the state, and, moreover, has had, in this respect, all the co-operation necessary on the part of public institutions and great corporations. As to the restorations undertaken by private individuals the directory has abstained from acting officiously, but has ordinarily met with a good degree of success. It is quite rare that it has failed in its war against false taste, which prevails only in the petty communities.
Among the great civil structures, for the restoration of which the state has made provision during these late years, we may cite: the ancient tower called Gaasetaarn (goose tower), of the fourteenth century, forming part of the ruins of the castle of King Valdemar the Great, at Vordinborg, in Seeland, to the expenses of which a private benefactor has generously contributed; the remarkable castles of Seeland, in the style of the Renaissance, called Rosenborg, Kronborg, and Irederiksborg, burned in December, 1859. For the last, however, the expense has been borne by the King, Frederick VII, or covered by a national subscription. While speaking of royal castles, it should be mentioned that the government has also caused to be restored and adorned in a proper manner nearly all the royal sepulchres throughout the kingdom.
But incomparably more important is the restoration of churches, which has been going on everywhere, so to speak, although many of them, on account of their extent, could not be rebuilt without great difficulty and expense. The establishment of the Reformation (1536), which deprived the churches, and above all the cathedrals and monasteries of the greater part of their revenues, for a long time brought architecture into neglect. A very few of these edifices remained in the possession of the state, the greater part fell into the hands of those who paid the tithe, and many were abandoned to private individuals with the tax

<<<Page: 309>>>

levied for their maintenance, but they were obliged to give them suitable care. In order to compel them to fulfill their obligations, the state has reserved the right to inspect these buildings, and it has annually imposed this duty upon the first pastor of the canton with several skilled workmen. These inspectors, however, were generally devoid of all elevated artistic taste, and, moreover, the revenues were far from covering the enormous expense for the proper maintenance of these large buildings. It is only in very pressing cases, after fires or great accidents, that the churches receive extraordinary aid obtained by general subscription, by subsidies furnished by the state, and, as much as possible, by the parish itself. In such circumstances many of the most remarkable religious edifices have fallen into a sad state of dilapidation.
The law of February 19, 1861, on the inspection of churches was a grand step for the better. It established general rules to be followed hereafter for the restoration of churches in their primitive style, and for the preservation of their furniture and their monuments; and it reserves, for the benefit of the National Museum, the right to acquire objects of no further use; furthermore, it prescribes the nomination of a special committee competent to inspect the most remarkable churches. This committee, which was composed of several distinguished architects and a practical archeologist, and which exercised a great influence upon the restorations commenced already or undertaken after their appointment, has for its president the director of monuments.
A progress not less important was the authority granted to the minister of public instruction to divide among the poorer churches the surplus of receipts from the richer, which were placed as independent institutions under the direction of the diocesan authorities. Finally, it was made possible to proceed to the restoration of churches without resources, and which were in bad state of decay, by the contribution of extraordinary credits on the part of the state, by the increase of taxation on the part of the parishes, and by the voluntary subscriptions of individuals. In this way there has been collected during the past few years about 140,000 franes ($28,000) to restore the ancient church of the monastery of Maribo, in the island of Lolland, constructed at the commencement of the fifteenth century. In the same manner the remarkable brick church of Kallundborg (Seeland), built in the form of a Greek cross in the twelfth century, has been restored with its five towers, of which the largest, that in the middle, had fallen down. The expense has amounted to 170,800 franes ($34,000). _ Next year the restoration of the cathedral of Viborg, in Jutland, which was constructed of granite in the twelfth century, will be terminated, at a total expense of about 1,057,000 franes ($211,000), after which the oldest Danish brick churches will be
repaired, to wit, that of the monastery of Ringsted, in Seeland, dating —
from about 1160, and the cathedral of Ribe, in Jutland, built in a semicircular form, in the first half of the twelfth century. Jn Jutland the interior of the cathedral of Aarhus, a brick structure

<<<Page: 310>>>

originally semicircular, dating from the thirteenth century, has been restored by the church or by the community at a cost of 84,000 franes, ($16,800), and the exterior now being repaired will demand about 280,000 franes ($56,000).
In Fionia, through the same agency, the church of Saint-Kniid, at Odense,.a brick structure, with a crypt recently discovered, in ogival style, dating from the thirteenth or fourteenth century, has been repaired at a cost of 238,000 franes ($47,600).
In Seeland, the cathedral of Roskilde, a brick edifice transitional in style, dating from the commencement of the thirteenth century, has cost for reconstruction 420,000 franes ($84,009).
The rich academy of Sorae, in Seeland, which belongs to the state, has restored at great cost the imposing church of its ancient monastery, a remarkable brick structure, dating from 1170 or thereabouts, and of the still more ancient church of Fjenneslevlille, of which it has the patronage, the academy has rebuilt in its primitive style the twin tower, previously much injured.
In all these churches the paint which covered up the ancient figures or mural decorations has been removed, the old altar scenes, the baptismal fonts, the epitaphs, the monumental stones, the paintings, and other relics of antiquity have been carefully restored and preserved. From what has been said, particularly concerning the church of the village of Fjenneslevlille, it is scarcely worth while to remark that the example of the restoration of great churches has had a very salutary influence upon the refitting of the smaller ones.
By V. Havarpb, M D., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. INTRODUCTION.
The power of France in North America has passed away, but the memory of its régime still endures throughout the vast territories discovered and colonized by the hardy Canadian pioneers, with the blood, language, and character of a large proportion of their inhabitants.
Always the friends of the Indians, the French explorers, traders, and voyageurs often became identified with their interests and fortunes, and freely intermarried with them. Their mixed-blood descendants, found mostly north and west of the great lakes, scattered throughout the British Possessions and the Northwestern States, have been, in their humble way, playing an important part in the colonization and civilization of the Far West.
Sailing down the Red River of the North into the Canadian province of Manitoba, the traveler finds himself at their headquarters. He observes men and women with almost the dusky complexion of the aborigine, but dressed in a civilized garb. They speak’ a French dialect,

<<<Page: 311>>>

readily understood, but unlike any of the patois of France. He is sur-
prised at their demonstrativeness and pleased with their urbanity. He. discovers in them the instinets of the Indian blended with and modified
by many of the moral and mental traits of the white, so that he is often
unable to tell which blood preponderates. Such are the first general
impressions made upon him by the I*rench half-breeds.
I shall first outline the history of their origin and gradual increase, beginning with the various causes which sent their fathers from Canadian towns and settlements into the wilderness to adopt savage life.
Canada, during the seventeenth century, was a poor and suffering colony. Severity of climate, wily savage foes, bad government, all conspired against its prosperity and happiness. It became a severe training-school in which was developed an enduring, hardy race of men, eminently adapted to the hazards and toils of the life which awaited them.
The fur-trade was then the main resource of New France. In its pursuit lay the only path to advancement and wealth, and the energy and enterprise of the colony were bent in that direction. Daring canoemen, not content to trade with the Indians at the settlements, set out for the wilderness in quest of savage fur-hunters, and met with great success. The charms of this roving life, seasoned by danger and coupled with a lucrative traffic, soon allured many of the strongest men into the western wilds.
The population comprised a large proportion of disbanded soldiers, ruined gentilshommes, and lawless adventurers. To such men the narrow confines of Canada, then a mere strip of land on each side of the Saint Lawrence from Quebee to Montreal, was too restricted a sphere of action, and the fur-trade gave a vent to their restless activity. On the other hand, the paternal solicitude of the home government and the zeal of its clergy bound the infant colony within a net of ordinances and regulations from which many were glad to break loose.
The bold and greedy spirits who, towards the middle of the seventeeu. century, began thus to range forests and lakes for beaver skins were known as coureurs de bois. It soon became evident that their example was pernicious; but in spite of stringent repressive laws their number constantly increased, and as the nefarious trade eould not be stopped it was deemed best to regulate it.
The coureur de bois, or bush-ranger, would, at rare intervals, visit the settlements of Montreal and Three Rivers and squander in a few wild orgies the accumulated gains of a whole campaign; but, impatient of restraint and fearful of the law, he would soon take in a cargo of provisions and trinkets, and again set the prow of his canoe westward.

<<<Page: 312>>>

THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. ou
Tn the forest, among the Hurons or Ottawas, he gave himself up to the ease and abandon of his adopted-home life, and let loose the ecurrent of his lower instincts. Divested of all the proprieties of his former civilized life, painted and tattooed, with feathered hat and beaded garments, he gaily danced with the braves or gravely smoked the calumet at the council of the tribe.
The first admixture of French with Indian blood was the natural result of the bush-rangers’ mode of life; admitted to all the privileges of members of the tribes, they courted the facile dusky beauties and won them either as wives or concubines. They visited the natives of Sault Ste. Marie as early as 1654, had made a rendezvous of Mackinae before the establishment of the mission in 1671, and had a stockade at Detroit long before Du Shut fortified it in 1686. In all their migrations a cordial welcome was always extended them by the Indians of the lakes and of the Illinois country, and their first mixed-blood offspring can be traced back to about the middle of the seventeenth century.
We have strong evidences that, before the conquest, the French had explored the Northwest, along the Saskatchawan and the Missouri, as far as the Rocky Mountains. They had important trading-posts in the Winnipeg Basin and on the Upper Mississippi. After their downfall, shunning their conquerors, they emigrated from Canada, in large numbers, to the distant Western settlements, and were thus thrown into still more intimate relations with the Indians. Then was organized the famous British Northwest Company, which enrolled under its flag all the Canadians who had served at the various posts on the frontiers. It occupied the regions hitherto held by the French and, later, extended its operations even beyond the Rocky Mountains. When 1t became absorbed by its more powerful rival, the Hudson Bay Company, in 1821, the Canadians continued to be the most numerous and valuable servants of the new organization. They were likewise a very important element in the formation and management of the various American fur companies. It may be safely stated that, at the end of the first quarter of thepresent century, French engagés were found at all the posts of the British and American fur companies from Lake Superior to Vancouver's Island, and from the Great Slave Lake to the Lower Missouri.
Whenever they became independent they generally formed settlements in the neighborhood of the contpanies’ posts. The Lake Winnipeg Basin, first discovered and colonized by De la Verendrye, in 1743, and, after the conquest, the center of the operations of the Northwest and Hudson Bay Companies, has always contained a large population of French Canadians and half-breeds. Before Lord Selkirk began his settlement on Red River, in 1811, they had considerable villages at Pembina and Fort Rouge, later Fort Garry. From Winnipeg they spread most along the great arteries of trade and travel the Assiniboin and Saskatchawan Rivers. On the Pacific coast their principal colonies were at Fort Vaneouver, Walla Walla, and other points on the Columbia.

<<<Page: 313>>>

The great majority of Canadians who, more particularly in the early times of the colony, left the settlements as traders, hunters, voyageurs, or engagés were single men who cut themselves loose from kith and kin to seek fortune in congenial pursuits at the advanced posts and among the Indians. As already intimated, they were not strict monogamists. They would sometimes abandon the mother of their offspring to the care of her tribe and seek a second or a third wife (wherever chance earried them,) to be perhaps forsaken like the first. Such conduct, favorable to the production of a numerous progeny, was very ohjectionable to the missionaries, who combated it with all the weight of their influence. They generally succeeded in giving the sanction of law and religion to one of their illegitimate unions, so that, however loose in his morals, the voyageur had one lawful wife who, after the vicissitudes of a toilsome life, would share with him in his declining years the comfort and rest of the settlements.
It may be apposite to our purpose to notice here the contrast between the French and the English colonies in their relations with the Indians. The latter, independent of the Indians from whose intercourse they could derive no benefit, regarded them simply as an obstacle to their progress, a natural foe, against which they waged a war of extermination. The former, from the first, recognized in the red man a fellow being, and as such entitled to consideration. They treated him with firmness, tempered by strict justice. Of a more gentle and sympathetie nature, the French felt kindly disposed towards the natives and had less repugnance to overcome to associate with them. Their religion, also, as exemplified in the self-immolating life of the missionaries, must have taught them impressive lessons of tolerance and Christian charity.
As the result of their intercourse with the Indians there was not in New France a single tribe whose alliance and friendship they did not win and retain, even long after their.power had passed away. They, however, as already stated, had less worthy motives to conciliate them. Having neglected agriculture for the sake of trade, the Indians were necessary auxiliaries. It was only through them that furs could be procured and prosperity maintained in the colony; only with their help that the King could extend his dominions westward and check the encroaching English and Dutch colonies. The cultivation of their friendship was therefore earnestly enjoined upon all the officials of New France, on political and commercial grounds, while the missionary preached forbearance and justice in the name of humanity.
The tribes of Canada, of the Lakes, of the Winnipeg Basin, and of the Illinois country, all belonging to the great Algonquin family, were most subjected to French influence. It was among them that the cowreurs de bois loved to rove; with their guidance the voyagers explored the northwest, and it is from them that the great majority of half-breeds derive their Indian blood.
Early in the eighteenth century, after all the lakes had been explored

<<<Page: 314>>>

THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. ahs
and the tribes’ friendship secured, families began to emigrate into the northwest. A great number settled at Detroit, others at Mackinac and Sault Ste. Marie; some even as far as Green Bay, in Lake Michigan, and the Mississippi settlements. It was only in 1818 that one or two Canadian familiés moved to Fort Garry, and it appears that when Bishop Toché arrived at that place in 1845 there had been so far but four Canadian women on the Red River.
At the present day it seems certain that of the descendants of these numerous families very few, if any, can boast of pure white blood. The admixture proceeded very slowly, but surely. It was immediate, of course, in the case of the wandering coureurs and voyageurs; it advanced more gradually in colonies formed of emigrant families. Detroit had still a preponderance, and Kaskaskia a large proportion, of incontaminate families at the time of the conquest.
Afterwards Detroit and its environs increased considerably by new accessions from Canada, but through Indian alliances the French there eventually lost their identity as a white race, to such an extent that there is scarcely any portion of the large Canadian-descended population of Hastern Michigan not infused with Indian blood.
The French colonies on the. Ilinois shore of the Mississippi, at Kaskaskia, Cahokia, Fort Chartres, &c., had acquired considerable importance in 1763, and counted several thcusand inhabitants. Speaking of the Illinois mission, the historian, John G. Shea, says: “More than in any other part the settlers intermarried with the Indians, and there are few of the French families in Illinois and Missouri that cannot boast their descent from the noble tribe which has given its name to the former State.” Michael Ako, one of the members of the La Salle’s expedition, married, in 1693, the daughter of the chief of the Kaskaskias.
The blood of intermarrying races becomes mixed in various proportions. A white man marrying a squaw begets half-breeds; these by successive marriages with either white or red blood will procreate quarter-breeds or quadroons in the second, and eighth-breeds or octoroons in the third generation. Marriages between the first and second generations are common, producing three-eighth breeds, either white or red. Of course, marriage between the offspring of the same generation, as between half-breeds, would not alter the relative proportion of either bloed.
From these possible combinations it is seen that the caste of Indian mixed-bloods is neither fixed nor well defined. Like all hybrid races, it is liable to many changes, and generally tends to approximate one or the other of the types of its progenitors. If a district, inhabited by half breeds or quarter-breeds, becomes settled by white people, and corre

<<<Page: 315>>>

spondingly abandoned by the Indians, the reversion, naturally, will be towards the white race, and the red blood may become so diluted as to scarcely give traces of its presence either in the complexion or intellectual aequirements. Such is the case in parts of the States of Illinois and Missouri, as well as in Hastern Michigan and other places about the lakes.
Again, if half-breeds live exclusively among Indians, the reversion will be towards the red type, so that a point is reached when it is impossible to discriminate between a mixed-blood and a pure-blood native. We find such individuals among the Northwestern tribes, of which they are a component part. Between these extremes is a large middle ground occupied by intermarried mixed-bloods, ranging from quarter-white to quarter-red, and including many half-breeds. These true representatives of the race are most numerous on the Red River of the North and the Winnipeg Basin.
Appellations of French mixed-bloods.—The French mixed-bloods of the Northwest are known under the several names of half-breeds, métis, and bois-brulés. Métis is probably derived from the Spanish mesfizo, itself traceable to the Latin mizxtus. Bois-brulé (burnt-wood), an appellation mostly used in the British provinces, is explained by referring to the maternal dialect of a large proportion of half-breeds. In Chippewa they are called Wisahkotewan Niniwak (men partly burned, or half burned), that is, I infer, men tinged with Indian blood, but not quite burned into the coppery complexion. ‘The usual name of half-breeds used by English and Americans presupposes blood from the paternal and maternal ancestors, mixed in equal proportion; but, as mentioned before, this is not often the case. The term mixed-blood is too vaguely comprehensive. Métis, when referring to French mixed-bloods, seems the most appropriate name. The designation of French is often indifferently applied to Canadians, métis of all grades, and even pure Indians who associate with métis and speak their patois. It should also be stated that in Manitoba and other places a certain proportion of mixed-bloods, from English and Scotch fathers, bearing such names as Grant, Grey, Sutherland, &e., are classified as French, from their language, religion, and associations, while occasionally such names as Lambert and Parisien are found among English half-breeds.
I have endeavored to form a near estimate of the population and ascertain the geographical distribution of the métis. Their uncertain Status as to nationality, their wide scattering over large areas, and the constant shifting of many families from one place to another, make this no easy task. My own observations have been supplemented by information gathered from missionaries, travelers, and Indian agents and other

<<<Page: 316>>>

THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. a16
government officials, so that I have reason to believe the following sum. mary to be tolerably full and correct.
Michigan.—There are about 8,000 people of French origin in the city of Detroit, and 2,090 more in its neighborhood. Farther off are Canadian colonies, at Bay City, Saginaw, Monroe, and other places, with a population of 5,000. Total in Eastern Michigan, 15,000. As explained before, very few, if any, of these people are free from Indian blood.
We find many métis along the straits which connect the Great Lakes. At various points of the southern coast of Upper Michigan, from the Bay des Moquets to Point Detour; on the islands of Mackinac and Bois Blanc; at the towns of Saint Ignace, Pointe la Barbe, and Gras Cap; south of the straits, near old Fort Mackinac, and at the village of Cheboygan. By including those who have only one-eighth Indian blood, their probable number is 1,000. Others are also scattered on Saint Mary’s River, Sault Ste. Marie (Michigan and Ontario sides), Garden River (Ontario), Whisky Bay, and Sugar Island; on Saint Joseph and Drummond Islands; at several points in Georgian Bay (French River, Killarney, Little Current, &e.); at ?Auxe, in Keweenaw Bay; in all, about 409. Total in Michigan and the adjoining Ontario shore, 16,400. Of this number from 300 to 400 live on Canadian territory.
Wisconsin.—In this State we find métis at the two old French settlements of Green Bay and La Pointe. Green Bay, settled by Augustin de Langlade and his son Charles in 1763, was the cradle of the State of Wisconsin. About 350 half-breeds live at several places on the bay, principally Menomonee, and on the Indian Reserve. La Pointe received a Jesuit mission as early as 1665, where flocked thousands of Indians, and became a great trading emporium. Half-breeds are numerous there and at other points of the Wisconsin coast from Fond du Lac to Montreal River, also in the interior, on the Wisconsin, Black, and Chippewa Rivers; in all, about 1,100, giving a total of 1,450 for the State.
Minnesota.—In Minnesota they are distributed as follows:
At and near White Earth Agency, 400; Red Lake Agency, 25; north shore of Lake Superior (Bay de Goulet, Badjiwanang, Fort William, Grand Portage) and northern line, 100; in Saint Paul and vicinity, 100; about Crookston, 6 families; at Morehead and Fargo, 10 families; along the Red River (Minnesota side), 15 families. Total, 780 (counting five persons to a family).
Dakota.—In this Territory we find French half-breed guides and interpreters at most military posts and agencies; a few families scattered on the Missouri, mostly between Green River and Yankton; a small settlement about the Lower Brulé Agency; about 15 families on the Sisseton
Reservation, and as many at Devil’s Lake Agency, partly settled on Cheyenne River and partly roaming with the Indians.
The earliest marriage on record on the Lower Missouri between French and Indian is probably that of Sergeant Dubois, of De Bourgmont’s company, who, before 1725, had wedded a girl of the tribe of the Mis

<<<Page: 317>>>

souris. He was afterwards left in command of Fort d’Orleans, erected on an island in the Missouri 5 miles below Grand River. At Berthold Ageney I can hear only of 2 or 3, which is rather surprising, as the French had relations with the*Rees, Mandans, and Gros Ventres long before Lewis and Clarke ascended the Missouri, in 1804. The Mandans were first visited by De la Verendrye’s sons in 1738. There are also a few at Spotted Tail and Red Cloud Agencies.
Pembina, first colonized by discharged Canadian servants of the Northwest Fur Company at the end of the last century, consequently the oldest settlement in Dakota, contains 110 half-breed families, whose houses line Red and Pembina Rivers. There are 6 families at Salt
iver and 14 at Grand Fork. Onthe upper part of the Pembina River, at Saint Joseph, and on the Pembina Mountains are about 70 fae Total in Dakota, estimating each family at 5 persons, 1,280.
Montana.—In Montana there are as follows: About 15at Crow Agency and adjacent points on the epeigewads about 20 near Fort Benton, settled on Teton and Maria’s Rivers; 1 or 2 at Wolf Point, on the Missouri. On Milk River, below Fort Browning, near the Big Bend, is a large, moving camp of about 150 lodges, or 650 persons. They probably migrated from Manitoba, and subsist mostly on the products of the buffalo hunt. At Fort Belknap reside 1 or 2 families; at Carroll, on the Missouri, 1 family. In Missoula County, originally settled by Canadian fur traders, we find about 300 half-breeds, principally located at the Flathead Agency, Saint Ignatius Mission, Flathead Lake, and French Town. Total in IONE, 1,008. acand Fox Agencies a few families, about 25 persons.
ei eomaere find Canadian mixed-blood guides and interpreters at several of the military posts; at the Santée Agency about 45, who removed there after the Minnesota outbreak of 1862; at the Winnebago Agency about 40; at the Pawnee Agency and Fort Laramie, a few. Total, about 130. The F French had pretty thoroughly explored Nebraska at the end of the last century. Lewis and Clarke meg several of them on the Missouri who had been wintering on the Platte and other western tributaries, and engaged as interpreter one Dusan: a half-breed, who had lived twenty years with the Sioux.
Wyoming.—About 12 at the Shoshoni Agency, and 2 or 3 hunting in the vicinity of Fort Fetterman. Total, 15.
Indian Territory.—Abort thirty settled on North Fork of Canadian River, and the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Reservation. Most of these are probably the descendants of the 8 Canadians, employés of the Hudson Bay Company, who at the beginning of this century, having wandered in a southern direction in quest of furs, were captured by a party of Mexicans and afterwards allowed to settle in New Mexico. Canadian River was named after them.
Idaho.—About 15 at the Nez Pereés Agency, and 8 near Fort Lapwai. Total, 23.
Oregon.—The Northwest and the Hudson Bay Companies, during the

<<<Page: 318>>>

THE FRENCH HALF-BREEDS OF THE NORTHWEST. aly
first quarter of this century, imported many Canadians into this erritory, then the seat of an active fur trade. When Wilkes visited Oregon in 1838 he found there 700 or 800 Canadians who had preceded, by several years, the American emigration. Their half-breed offspring number about 300, and are found at French Prairie and in its neighborhood, in Marion County, and in the valleys of the Willamette and Kaoulis Rivers.
Washington Territory.—In this Territory they are also in the majority; being the descendants of the Canadian employés of the fur companies named above. They have a village at Cowlitz and settlements in the Colville Valley, on the Okanagon River, at Tulalip, and Lummi. The total for the Territory is estimated by Father Chirouse at 250.
Adding the numbers obtained in each State and Territory we have a total of 21,691 for the Northwestern States.
British Possessions.—The province of Manitoba, extending from the boundary line to Lake Winnipeg, is the great center and rendezvous of French half-breeds. They are mostly settled at the following places: Winnepeg, or Fort Garry, St. Boniface, St. Vital, St. Norbert, St. Agatha, St. Anne, St. Charles, and St. Francis Xavier. Their population in the province is about 6,500. On the shores of Lakes Winnipeg and Manitoba and in the Rainy Lake district are probably 500.
In the Saskatchawan district we find many scattered along the Saskatchawan, clustering about the Hudson Bay Company’s posts. They are most numerous at the base of the Rocky Mountains, near Fort Edmonton, at the two missions of St. Albert and St. Anne, and number in all about 2,500. On little Slave Lake and vicinity are 500; on Lake Labiche and vicinity, 500: on Peace River and vicinity, 300.
Scattered families are seen as far north as the Great Slave Lake, but seldom bevond it. As early as 1778, the first employés of the Northwest Company who arrived on the shores of that lake found one Frangois Beaulieu who had been born there. On Turtle and Wood Mountains are about 100s on Cypress Mountains and head of French Creek about 80.
In British Columbia we find half-breeds on Fraser and Okanagon Rivers, Lakes Kamloops, Babine, and Stuart, in all about 250.
Total in the British Possessions, 11,250; oe total for the Northwest, 32,921.
If we could obtain the number of métis in Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Labrador, and in the northern part of New England, as well as that of the French-descended families tainted with Indian blood in the States of Illinois and Missouri, I doubt not the total would reach at least 40,000 as the strength of the population of I’rench-Canadian mixed-bloods in North America.
In a general way it may be asserted that, north of the fortieth parallel, from Quebec to Vancouver's Island, there is scarcely a native tribe, from

<<<Page: 319>>>

the Sioux to the Esquimaux, that has not been tinctured with French blood. The Canadians showed preferences in the choice of Indian mates, yet seem to have slighted no tribe, and generally made selection wherever fortune and circumstances led them.
Along the Saint Lawrence they took wives among the various hordes of Montagnais, Ottawas, and Hurons, and, at a later period, the Iroquois.
In Michigan most of the métis derive their Indian blood from the Ottawas and Chippewas; some from Pottawatomies and Menomonees; one or two families from Crees; one or two from Sioux. Along the shores of Lake Superior, mostly from Chippewas, a few from Sioux, Assinaboines, Illinois, and, in Green Bay, from the Menomonees. From Lake Superior to Red River, and in Minnesota, from various bands of Chippewas, especially the Saulteaux, so named from their place of origin, Sault Ste. Marie.
The Crees, the largest tribe in the British Possessions, roaming over the plains of the Saskatchawan, were always held in high esteem by the French, and united to them in close friendship. It was found that Cree women were superior to those of other tribes in moral and mental qualities, and they are generally preferred by white traders. The majority of the métis of Fort Garry, Saint Boniface, and other points on the Red River are of Cree, and the balance mostly of Chippewa-Saulteaux blood.
Around Pembina and Saint Joseph the Chippewa element predominates, also around Lakes Manitoba and Winnipeg, and westward to the northern branch of the Assinaboine. On the Saskatchawan, at the missions near Fort Edmonton, and northward to the Great Slave Lake, the métis are almost exclusively of Cree origin.
North of Lake Manitoba are some Maskegon métis, and where the Saskatchawan issues from the Rocky Mountains are a small number of Iroquois métis. The settlement of a band of Iroquois in the Rocky Mountains is a striking illustration of the roaming propensity of savages.
A small proportion of Blackfeet and Montagnais métis are found at the base of the Rocky Mountains; the former south, the latter north, of the Crees.
The Assinaboines have also mixed-blood representatives in Southern Manitoba, on the river of that name, and in the Red River Valley.
In Dakota the métis are mostly Chippewa and Assinaboine on the Red River and at Devil’s Lake, and Sioux at other places. In Montana they are Gros Ventre on Milk River, Flathead in Missoula County, Cree and Chippewa elsewhere. In Iowa they are from the Saes and Foxes, and in the Indian Territory from the Cheyennes and Arapahoes. Farther west, and on the Pacific coast, they derive their Indian blood from the Various tribes among which they live.
Ws OCCUPATION. The capacity of the métis for work and industry is great, and is exercised over a wide range, from the highest callings of civilized life to

<<<Page: 320>>>

the miserable shifts of the sensuous savage. In Michigan and Wisconsin, many hold positions of trust and responsibility, requiring education and integrity, while the majority live in towns and villages, occupied in the same pursuits as their white neighbors. Probably one-half of those living at Detroit, Green Bay, Mackinac, La Pointe, and Red River are permanent settlers and honored tax-paying eitizens. About one-fourth or one-fifth of the Northwest half-breeds, mostly hired men, hunters, and trappers, although hovering about the settlements, have no fixed home, and lead a semi-nomadic life. A smaller proportion, in the remote Western States, on the Saskatchawan and other points in the British Possessions, have not yet severed their tribal relations, and live like Indians. In Upper Michigan and on Lake Superior, the greater number rely principally on farming and fishing for a livelihood. Only few give to agriculture their exclusive attention and depend altogether on the produce of their farms. There are none who subsist exclusively by hunting and trapping, though a number are thus occupied for a part of the year.
Métis carpenters, blacksmiths, shoemakers, &e., are not uncommon. Many work in the saw-mills during the summer and go out lumbering in winter. <A certain proportion are boatmen on the lakes.
In Manitoba they occupy a due proportion of the government offices. Until very recently they had a large majority of members in the provincial parliament. Farming, stock-raising, and fishing are their principal means of support. Formerly many went buffalo hunting on the plateau of the Missouri during the season, but this resource has been exhausted.*
On the Assinaboine, Saskatchawan, and the lakes north of the latter river, the half-breeds perform all the menial duties at the posts of the Hudson Bay Company, where they also act as guides and interpreters. They are hardy and sagacious voyageurs, either with ox-cart, dog-sleigh, or canoe. They hunt and trap, and often make a dash at the buffalo. At the Catholic missions of St. Anne and St. Albert many are tilling the soil, and begin to reap the fruits of patient industry.
Their women are expert in bead-work and very skillful in the ornamentation of furs and buekskin. The colonies on Milk River, Wood Mountains, Frenchmen’s Creek, and Maria’s River are nearly altogether dependent upon the buffalo. They cure robes with great skill and make
*These annual hunts were on a large scale, as may be seen from the following illustration, condensed from the “History of the Red River,” by Alexander Ross: ‘‘In June, 1840, 1,63) half-breeds, including a few Canadians and Indians, rendezvoused at Pembina with 1,210 carts and 542 dogs. After organizing into a sort of military command, with ten captains and one president, they journeyed 250 miles before striking the buffalo. In the evening of the first day’s hunt no less than 1,375 tongues were brought into camp. In the mélée one rider broke his shoulder-blade, another lost three fingers by the bursting of his gun, and the third received a spent ball on the knee. Scarcely one-third of the animals killed were turned to account. The party returned with about 900 pounds of meat per cart.”

<<<Page: 321>>>

excellent pemmican. Their fall and winter trade averages from seventyfive to one hundred robes per family, each robe selling at from $3 to $5.
Pemmican, a peculiar half-breed produce, is made as follows: The lean meat of the buffalo is cut into thin slices; these are dried in the sun, then pounded and compressed into a rawhide sack. An equal amount of hot fat is poured upon the meat and the sack is closed. Sometimes the berries of the amelanchier are added to the mass. Each sack weighs from 100 to 150 pounds. The food thus prepared is tasteful, wholesome, and keeps many months.
‘ver CHARACTER AND HABITS.
In intelleet, as in physique, the métis occupies a middle ground between the races from which he is issued. Combining many of the faculties of both white and Indian, yet identified with neither, he is, in most respects, a member of a distinct class of our population.
Wherever I have met him, he has always appeared to me endowed with many qualities of heart and of mind which readily develop and ripen on contact with civilization. Even in the wilderness he bears within himself the germs of a higher life which make him aspire to a better state. Unfortunately many circumstances have hitherto been adverse to his advancement. His paternal ancestors, from whom he derives the better part of himself, were but too often indifferent and careless parents, noted for greediness and licentiousness. On the other hand, until a very recent period, he had never felt the gentle and refining influence of civilized woman, either inside or outside the family circle. Even to-day many métis in the remote Northwest are still strangers to it. Schools have also been scarce at many of their settlements, and attendance at them often difficult. Their present degree of cultivation in Manitoba and on the Saskatchawan is mainly due to the missionaries who since 1818 have been laboring among them with unremitting zeal.
In the character of the métis, when not perverted by bad associations, we discover a guileless nature, easily swayed; a clear, but not strong moral sense; good purposes, but weak will. Fickle and impulsive, they are mostly free from greed, egotism, and seem incapable of deliberate, calculating fraud.
They are kind-hearted, genial, and sympathetic, practicing in all its patriarchal fullness the virtue of hospitality. Generous even to a fault, often prodigal, they cheerfully share all they have with friends or even Strangers, sometimes to the point of depriving themselves of necessities. Such generosity is often indisereet; it encourages a set of idlers and drones who are a burden upon the community. Whenever destitute, they ask from their neighbors as freely as they give. There is among themselves a sort of spontaneous freemasonry which unites them in the bonds of good-fellowship, but without any prejudice to the claims of

<<<Page: 322>>>

their other fellow-men. They resent an injury quickly, but are as quick to pardon and do not treasure up animosity.
Like Indians, they have a quick and discerning eye for “the lay of the land.” From its general outlines they readily infer its minor topographical accidents, and this faculty enables them to reach any objective point, through virgin forests and over untrodden prairies, by the most direct and practicable route. While on the way they notice minutely all the details of the landscape, and these seem to remain indelibly printed on their memories.
They are fruitful in shifts and resources on the plains and in the woods, and no accident or danger will dishearten them; they may change their purpose, but will not lose their temper. They are wary trappers, experienced hunters, and daring warriors. In the fight they exhibit all the native craft of Indians combined with better disciplined valor. Tor this reason, as well as on account of their kinship, they are very seldom molested by the latter.
Theft is not one of the vices of the métis. They freely ask and beg, but do not steal, neither from one another nor from the whites. Their cottages, on the Red River, are mostly without lock and key and under the sole safeguard of mutual honesty. This regard for the rights of property is duly appreciated by their employers.
By the side of these lights let us place a few shades to complete the picture.
The great moral infirmity of the half-breed seems to be his inability to exercise self-control. Of a light-minded, gay, and passionate disposition, he is ever ready to enjoy himself and would fain reverse the trite maxim: “Duty before pleasure.” He does not avoid and does not know how to resist temptation, which makes him an easy prey to his appetite; hence, waste of time, neglect of duties, and a certain inconstancy of character which renders him the facile dupe of designing men. This love of pleasure leads frequently to drunkenness, often excessive and violent; it is also adverse to daily work and steady industry, hence the poverty and low social status of many.
Morality.—The morality of the half-breeds depends very much upon their bringing up and surroundings. Credulous and impressionable, they quickly refleet whatever influence is brought to bear upon them. Submissive to their spiritual teachers, whenever roused into suiiicient determination, they become better Christians and more worthy citizens than the white froutiersmen of their neighborhood. Unfortunately, as already stated, they exhibit a lurking infirmity of purpose and debility of will which often defeat the best resolutions.
Their immorality, however, is never of a gross kind; the women sin, but do not become deeply corrupted and completely abandoned to a life of shame; they never lose a certain fund of native modesty, which, under proper guidance, easily leads to reform and to a better life. The amount of illegitimacy and crime among them is less in proportion than in most civilized countries.
S. Mis. 54 ——21

<<<Page: 323>>>

Religion—In religion, the métis are Roman Catholic almost to a man, They inherited their creed from their fathers, and through all the vicissitules of a hard life cling to it with great fondness and tenacity.
On account of their remoteness and scattered condition, many have been, and still are, cut off from religious instruction, but there must be few who never heard the voice of the missionary. As early as 1818, Canadian priests were ministering to them on the Red River, and, today, a band of zealous missionaries, under the direction of Archbishop Taché, of Saint Boniface, preach the Christian faith to Indians and métis alike, at numerous missions, from Lake Winnipeg to British Columbia, and nearly to the mouth of the McKenzie River.
Education.—The education of the métis varies according to their means and opportunities. It may be said, in a general way, that their innate love of roving freedom indisposes them greatly to the restraint and confinement of school life. The children are naturally apt and intelligent scholars, but seem incapable of the sustained application which the study of books requires. The little influence and authority of the mother over the boys is regretable, as, in the absence of the father, often called away by the necessities of his life, no coercion is brought to bear upon them, and they find it easier to play than to learn. Wherever schools have been opened in their midst a majority of the children are sent to them, but their attendance is often irregular and seldom continued long. As it is, however, the result is already gratifying and promises well of the next generation. Of the present it may be said that in the British Possessions and the remote Western States the great majority of adults can neither read nor write.
A French weekly paper is published at Winnipeg in the interest of the métis.
Val,
The métis are of middle stature, well proportioned, with dark complexion, regular features, and open, pleasing countenance, smiling more readily than it frowns. The peculiarities of the Indian face, such as salient cheeks, hooked nose, semi-lunar profile, &c., can often be noticed, but are very much softened, and in many individuals unapparent. The hands and feet are smal! and neatly shaped. The muscles concerned in locomotion are well developed, but the whole body is rather slender and free from all superfluous flesh. Their complexion, generally tawny, varies greatly in its shades from quasi-coppery to pure white. Many, in color and east of features, bear a striking resemblance to the border Mexicans. The women are fairer than the men, somewhat paie and sallow; some have a skin as white and delicate as that of any European lady. They are well featured and comely; I have seen among them girls with faces of classic beauty.
The men, Indian-like, are beardless and cultivate long hair. They are

<<<Page: 324>>>

not stronger than the whites, and, for a short time, perhaps capable of less powerful exertion, but they possess extraordinary powers of endurance, and, in the long run, would easily outstrip the whites. They are indefatigable voyageurs. During the long northwestern winter they travel immeuse distances on snow-shoes, at the rate of 30 and 40 miles a day. With a dog-sled, now trotting by the side of their team, then over smooth ground standing on the rear of the sled, and again over rough places, pushing from behind with a pole, and launching at the panting team a few rolling imprecations, they make from 50 to 60 miles a day. As boatmen they display a vigor, skill, and a sum of endurance unexcelled by any other class of men.
The average half-breed house, such as the traveler notices along the banks of Red River, is a small one-story log structure, with often but one, seldom more than two or three apartments, scantily furnished. In one corner of the principal room is the bed of the heads of the family, painted in some vivid color; an open fire-place, tall and narrow, so as to accommodate logs placed upright, occupies the middle of one of the walls; a table, dresser, and a few boxes, doing duty as chairs, constitute the furniture. In this room, if it be the only one, eat and sleep all the members of the family, seldom a small one. This promiscuous mode of living, however objectionable, is not attended with the lowering of morals which one would expect, nor does it harden young girls out of their native coyness and modesty. Métis, who can afford to build larger and more commodious houses, often have them painted red and blue with sharp contrast of colors.
Vehicles—The vehicles ordinarily used by the métis deserve mention. They are during the summer the charratte or cart, and during the winter the carriole and dog-sled. No better description of the cart can be given than in the words of Assistant-Surgeon E. Woodruff, U.S. A.:
“These singular vehicles were composed entirely of wood, and consisted of two wheels nearly 6 feet in diameter, with very broad tires, and a small body resting on the axle and shafts. Both ponies and oxen were used to draw them, attached by a peculiar harness of raw hide. These carts would carry from 600 to 800 pounds, and one man could drive five or six of them in a train. No grease was used, and as a long train crept over the prairie an indescribable noise was made by the creaking of the wheels. * * * The broad felloes of the wheels prevented their sinking in the soft ground, and the driver, with only the most primitive tools, could at any time or place repair a broken cart or even construct a new one. When progress was interrupted by a swollen stream, the cart could be taken to pieces and floated across.”
As late as 1870, although steam navigation had already begun on the

<<<Page: 325>>>

Red River, the trade of Fort Garry and the Selkirk settlements with St. Paul, a distance of 600 miles, was carried on in these carts. It was estimated that 3,000 of them passed through Pembina in one season going south, freighted with furs, and returned loaded with various supplies.
The carriole, or sleigh, is simply the body of a cart laid on the snow, with shafts raised in front, and drawn by oxen or ponies. The dog-sled, or tabawga, used for long journeys through the British Possessions, consists essentially of a broad board raised up in front, and is drawn by three or four dogs harnessed in tandem fashion. The collars and traces, usually of moose skin, are ornamented with brass bells, fox tails, and ribbons. Three good animals can pull a load of 300 pounds, with blankets and provisions, and now and then the driver, many miles a day. The tabawga, with its canine team, is independent of roads; it selects its course over the boundless expanse of the great ‘‘ Lone Land” as does the mariner at sea. These dogs, of a breed akin to the St. Bernard’s, are fed on frozen fish or pemmican; at night they burrow their bed in the snow.
Before the running of the steamers on the Red River, a daily mail was received at Fort Pembina, brought from Saint Paul in dog-sleds.
Dress.—In their dress the métis show no marked peculiarities, but betray, in a tempered way, the fondness of the Indian for finery and gaudy raiment. In Manitoba the men usually wear a blue overcoat or capot with conspicuous brass buttons, black or drab corduroy trowsers, a belt or searf around the waist, leggings, and moccasins, the whole variously adorned with colored fringes, scallops, and beads. The legging is an important article of the young buck’s toilet; it is usually made of blue cloth, extends to the knee, below which it is tied with a gaudy garter of worsted work, and has a broad stripe of heavy bead work running down the outer seam.
The women generally dress in a black gown with a black shawi thrown over the head, in a manner at once comfortable and becoming. The girls often wear a colored shawl about their shoulders and a showy handkerchief upon the head; they like searlet petticoats and prize gaudy ribbons and cheap jewelry.
Marriage.—The métis marry young. At twenty the young men seek mates, and the girls are eligible at fifteen. The ceremony usually takes place during the winter, which is with them a season of leisure and festivities. The conjugal knot is tied in the chapel of the parish by the resident missionary, after which there is dancing and feasting for several days, often to the great detriment of the provisions accumulated against along winter, When all the guests have dispersed, the young husband takes his bride home to begin life on a capital stock of the merest necessities of life, and they are happy.
The métis are prolific and raise large families of healthy children, seldom Jess than two or three, often as many as seven or eight, thus controverting the statement sometimes made that hybrid races are sterile, The mothers love their children dearly, and bring them up with

<<<Page: 326>>>

care; but the boys, fond of roving freedom, escape early from their influence and become often guilty of gross filial ingratitude. The daughters are more dutiful and generally reciprocate the affection of their parents
xe LANGUAGE.
The métis generally speak several languages, one or more Indian dialects, French, and often English. In the States most of them understand English, and use it when conversing with Americans, but seldom when among themselves. On the Red River, the Saskatchawan, and Milk River settlements, English is only exceptionally spoken.
All the métis, from Lake Superior westward, speak more or less Indian; in Manitoba many prefer it, and this preference becomes more general as we near the Rocky Mountains. The Cree principally, and, in a much less degree, the Chippewa, are the ordinary languages of the half-breeds in the British Northwest.
The Cree is easily learned, expressive, and euphonious, and for these qualities has become the universal medium of conversation among the Northwestern tribes and their kindred, the métis. In Minnesota the latter speak Chippewa; in Dakota, Sioux and Cree; and at the other places the dialect of the tribe from which they originated.
French is understood by all Canadian half-breeds; it is their ordinary language in Michigan, Wisconsin, and around Lake Superior, and everywhere their official medium of communication. At all the parishes on Red River, on the Assiniboin, and even at Saint Albert, on the Saskatchawan, the sermons are usually preached in French.
The French of the métis is a patois, somewhat analogous to that of
the poorer classes in Canada. It is not comprehensive but contains a large number of peculiar words and expressions grown out of the character of the land they live in, and their mode of life. The pronunciation, although very defective, is not as bad as that of many of the provincial patois of France. It is readily understood by a Frenchman in spite of its grotesqueness, but correct French, unless made very plain, is not readily understood by the average métis. Whether spoken about the lakes, on the Saskatchawan, or in British Columbia, it is very nearly identical. ' Many words in common use are obsolete Preuch, but may still be heard to-day in Normandy and Picardy; for instance: Aller cri (quérir ), to fetch; fiewr, flour; patate, potatoe; patir, to sutier; mowiller, to rain; raisonner, to grumble; grouiller (of persous), to stir; brailler, to weep ; jongler, to think; magauer, to maltreat; boxcaue, smoke; moucher, to beat.
A large number belong to the vocabulary of the prairie: Fourcher, to branch off; fourches, forks of a stream; charrette, cart; carriole, sleigh; traine, sled; embarquer, to get aboard cart or sleigh; faire

<<<Page: 327>>>

chaudiére,to cook ; coulée, ravine ov gully ; butte, bluff or cliff; mauvaises terres, bad, broken lands; tétons, small, round peaks; plateau, table-land ; plateau du coteau, land system of a river or lake; travail, the Indian conveyance, consisting of a frame resting on two poles dragging on the ground; poudrer, to storm and snow; babiche, strip of raw hide; cabresse, lasso; pemmican, meat dried and pounded ; capot, overcoat with hood; equipage, team; train, outfit.
Some originated with the fur-trade: Coureurs de bois, bush-rangers ; voyageurs, fur carriers, collectors, and boatmen; engagés, employés, laborers at trading posts; portage, place where canoes are carried over shoals or to another stream; bourgeois, proprietor or manager of a post ; mangeurs de lard (pork eaters), green, inexperienced hands ; plut, peltry; bateau, barge.
Some are English words with a French termination and pronunciation: Salon, saloon; biter, to beat; settler, to settle, &c.
The métis avoid grammatical difficulties in the use of verbs and pronouns, by using as few tenses as possible, and these preferably in the third person singular; for instance: ¢a dit ¢a, they say so; ow va aller, we shall go, &e.
As peculiarities of bad pronunciation I may mention the diphthong oi, always pronounced as ai, with the sound of the final consonant, thus: Froid, droit, &c., are fraite, draite, &e.; also the broad, nasal sound of the a, as in the following sentence: ¢a@ neva pas. The latter peculiarity is characteristic of the Canadian pronunciation of French.
Names.—The names of métis are those of many Canadian families, and are mostly found in those western and northern provinces of France from which Canada received its first settlers.
We find here and there a scion of aristocracy. On the Lakes and in Manitoba: Saint-Luc de Repentigny, Bonaventure Saint-Arnaud, Charles de Montigny, Louis Saint-Cyr, Pierre Saint-Germain, de la Morandiére, de la Ronde, &c. Farther north: Le Camarade de Mandeville, de Saint-George, de Laporte, de Saint-Luc, de Chaumont-Racette, de Lépinais, de Charlais, &e.
Among the most common family names, we notice on the Red River: Boucher, Bois-Vert, Bourassa, Boyer, Cadotte, Capelette, Carriére, Delornie, Deschambeau, Dumas, Flamand, Galarneau, Gosselin, GrandBois, Gaudry, Goulet, Hupé, Laroeque, Lucier, Lagemodiére, Laderoute, Lepuie, Laframbaise, Letendre, Morin, Montreuil, Martel, Normand, Rinville, Villebrun, &e.
At Mackinae and other place on the Lakes: Saint-André, Brisebois, Bellanger, Bonneau, Boucher, Baudry, Biron, Chevalier, Cadotte,Chenier, Deschamps, Frichette, Giroux, Gendron, Grondin, Hamelin, Lapierre, Lavallée, Léeuyer, Lévéque, Lusignau, Labutte, Lépine, Mainville, Nolin, Plaute, Pelletier, Perrault, Pilotte, Piquette, Riel, Saintonge, Thibault, &e.
At French Prairie (Oregon): Gregoire, Maison, Lachapelle, Delorme, Vaudal, Lucier, Gervais, Rondeau, &e.

<<<Page: 328>>>

PREHISTORIC REMAINS IN MONTANA. ont
In Missoula County (Montana): Asselin, Jaugras, Moriceau, Laderoute, Lafontaine, Larose, Lavallée, Poirier, Dupuis, Bisson, LHouille, Cairier, &c.
In British Columbia: Allard, Boucher, Boulanger, Danant, Dionne, Durocher, Falandeau, Gagnou, Giraud, Lacroix, Lafleur, Napoleon, Perault, &e.
It is probable that many of these names, especially those beginning with the article la, originated in the wilderness, and, when applied to individuals whose paternity was unknown, were made to designate some peculiarity of body or of mind, or some circumstance of birth or parentage.
By P. W. Norris, Superintendent of the Yellowstone National Park.
While crossing from Fort Ellis to the Upper Yellowstone River, through Trail Pass, in the spring of 1870, I diverged from the main route upon an ancient, nearly abandoned trail, through an eroded valley, some five miles, to Hight-mile Creek, and thence over the second basaltic terace to Bottler’s.
Upon and between these creeks I then, and again in 1875, observed not only the usual stone heaps for winter guides in snowy passes, but also scattered groups of what I supposed to be burial cairns, but had neither time nor tools toexamine them. Butin July of this year, learning that Squire Ferrel, who now has a fine ranch in Trail Pass, had seen some apparently ancient excavations, we together sought and found several, and I subsequently alone found some larger ones. Within an area of somewhat over a square mile, midway between Trail and Hight-mile Creeks, near the ancient trail, are four distinct groups of ancient shafts, or rather drifts along a vein. The débris was thrown out below the entrance as in the ancient copper drifts of Lake Superior. The largest are 40 feet long, 20 wide, and 8 deep, but most of them are much smaller. 3ut as an excavation, 5 feet deep, which I made in the largest, failed to reach either bottom or side walls, they are all doubtless very ancient and much filled in with eroded materials from the crumbling basaltic terraces.
One set of drifts was made through the crumbling basalt, for a red or brown mineral paint, evidently not recently, if ever, used by the present red Indians. Another is a line of drifts along the nearly horizontal outcrop of a 6 or 8 inch layer of rock as hard as flint and as beautiful as moss agate, along a hillside of vitreous limestone.
The other two groups of drifts are upon veins of a wavy, variegated, colored rock, but it, like the flinty agate last mentioned, splits with a fracture apparently wholly unsuited for any kind of implement, and none were found there.

<<<Page: 329>>>

Most of the stone heaps are from 3 to 5 feet high and 8 to 12 in diameter at the base. In every case fragments of charcoal, a half cart-load of coarse square gravel, evidently arrow heads, and of other tools or weapons of merely the débris of rocks there fractured by fire, and fragments of flint; jasper, obsidian, and other materials were found, but no human or animal bones.
About ten miles from this locality, upon the basaltic terrace back of Bottler’s ranch, and along the basaltic terraces above a chain of lakes between Emigrant Gulch and Dome Mountain, and on the West Gallatin, are long, and frequently, though not always, parallel lines of very small stone heaps.
Long and patient investigation failed to develop any definite form or apparent object in them, though they are always continuous, connected, and tolerably uniform in shape, average from one-half to a whole bushel in size, and are situated about a pace apart, so that a man can walk for miles upon them. They are seldom inclosures and never squares, circles, or other regular forms. They never, in any remembered case, show, by their position on summits of hills, on forks of canons, or on slopes of terraces, the slightest attempt at defense, often passing around and below crests, rocks, and bowlders, which now absolutely overlook and command them,
That they are the work of human hands cannot be for a moment doubted, and, being somewhat eroded and imbedded, I suppose them also to be very ancient. These are my only conclusions in reference to them.
By Cou. ALBerT G. BRACKETT, U. S. A.
The different bands of Shoshonis roam throughout Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Northern Utah, Northern California, and Southern Oregon, Taken as a whole, they number fully 8,000 souls, but are broken up and never operate together. While some have always been friendly to the whites, others have been their enemies, and the renegades living in Oregon pursue the pale-faces with peculiar rancor. The party of Indians which gave so much trouble to the whites in 1878 near the boundary line between Oregon and California, under the name of Modoes, was made up in part of Snake Indians. The Snakes living near Stien’s Mountain, in Oregon, hunt and fish for a living, and never let an opportunity pass without doing what damage they can to the white settlers. Why one portion of this nation should be so hostile and another so friendly is not easily explained.
These Indians were first encountered by Lewis and Clark’s party while on their way to the Pacific, in 1805. They were very poor, but assisted our people as well as they were able. They lived in the valleys and

<<<Page: 330>>>

along the courses of the streams, and had but little idea of laying up stores for winter. Their bread was made of sunflower (Helianthus annuus) and lambs-quarter (Chenopodium album) seeds, mixed with service berries (Amelanchier canadensis). They had a few horses, which they ralued highly, that had been brought from the south by the Comanches, who speak the same language as the Shoshonis, and may, therefore, be considered as belonging to the same stock. The Shoshonis traveled far to the south, the greater portion of the tribe living, in fact, at that time, in the territory belonging to Mexico, or New Spain.
The tribal relationship between the Comanches, Shoshonis, and Bannacks is very close; and any one speaking the Shoshoni language may travel without difficulty among the wild tribes from Durango, in Mexico, to the banks of the Columbia River. Of course, each band has its peeuliarities, but in the main they are much alike, and, if they could be combined, would form one of the most powerful Indian confederations in America. Some are richer in Indian property than others—having all that is desirable in an aboriginal point of view—while others are very poor indeed, living in the fastnesses of the mountains, and afraid to be seen by any one. A more utterly forlorn and friendless race of people than those last mentioned cannot be conceived.
The Shoshonis love to fish in the spring time, in the streams which flow into the Colorado of the West; in the summer and fall they wander off to the buffalo-grounds to the east of the Wind River Mountains. They are a contented race, and are on friendly terms with all the Indian tribes except the Sioux, Arapahoes, and Cheyennes.
Their lodges are made of dressed buffalo-skins; that is, skins that have had the hair taken off, and which have been rendered pliable by pounding and rubbing. Some of them are very elaborately made, painted on the outside, and divided into different compartments, answering the purpose of rooms in more pretentious dwellings. In each compartment there is a good bed made of buffalo, beaver, or bear skins, and blankets. In the center of the lodge is a fire, the smoke from which makes its way through a hole in the top. Each family has several brass kettles and drinking cups, &e. In the evenings the fires give a ruddy light, making everything look cheerful inside, and the children play about in as good spirits as any on earth. They have their little plays and games, and laugh and chatter away as merrily as crickets. There is a great degree of freedom in all of their movements, and I cannot see but that they enjoy themselves as well as any people I have ever met.
At present the Shoshonis occupy several reservations. One band, in company with the Bannacks, is on the Lemhi farm in Montana, where they have some land under cultivation, and a good fishing place in the Lemhi Fork of Salmon River, a tributary of Snake River. The Eastern Shoshonis have a reservation in Wyoming Territory, which embraces the Wind River country from its source to Owl Creek, a large tributary
_of the river itself. These Indians are under the leadership of Washakee,

<<<Page: 331>>>

one of the ablest red men now living. At the Fort Hall Agency, in Idaho, there is another band that is thoroughly mixed up with the Bannacks. The Northwestern Shoshonis have an ageney in Utah; but this band does not seem to be united at all, and is scattered over Western Utah and Eastern Nevada. The Walpahpe and Yahooskin bands of Shoshonis are in Oregon and formerly roamed about with the Modoes, before their removal from Oregon, as they now do with the Klamaths and Pi-Utes.é
Nearly all of them receive annuities from the government, and some effort has been made toward teaching them how to carry on farms, but the farming land is generally so badly located, the frosts so severe, the grasshoppers so plentiful, and the altitude so great, that, in most instances, but little can be said in favor of these farming operations. It would be difiicult for the best American farmers to raise crops on some of the reservations that have been set apart for the Indians, and I do not think that we ought to expect more from them than we can from our own race.
By far the larger portion of the eastern reservation is barren and mountainous. The valley of the Little Wind River, in which the agency is situated, contains eight or ten sections of land which can be irrigated and cultivated. There is little or no wood except on the mountain-sides, distant some ten or twenty miles from the agency, tf we except some fine shade-trees along the course of the river. The Wind River Mountains are supposed by the Indians to bethe home of the spirits, and they believe a person can see the spirit land, or the land they will oceupy after death, from the top of them. They are fond of describing the beauties of this land, and the enjoyments and pleasures they will find therein: fresh and pure streams; wide prairies covered with grass and flowers, and abounding in deer; beautiful squaws to wait upon them; horses, always ready and never tired, to take part in the chase; new lodges supplied with every comfort, and provisions and meat so plentiful that they will never again suffer the pangs of hunger.
These Indians have not much of an idea of God, though they believe in Tamapah, or Sun-Father, who is the Father of the Day and Father of us all, and lives in the sun. They believe that when a good Indian dies, he fails into a beautiful stream of bright, fresh water, and is carried to the pleasant grounds I have described, whereas when a bad Indian dies, he falls into a stream of muddy, filthy water, and is borne off to a dark and noisome swamp, where he is unhappy, dirty, and miserable. When an old man is dying he finds himself near the top of a high hill on the Wind River Mountains, and, as the breath leaves his body, he reaches the top of it, and there, in front of him, the whole magnificent landscape of eternity is spread out, and the Sun-Father is there to receive him and to do everything in his power to make him happy. They recognize the fact that there is a difference in the future state made between the good and the bad, though the idea of eternal torment

<<<Page: 332>>>

THE SHOSHONIS OR SNAKE INDIANS. gow
they do not entertain at all. Material pleasures alone are those which a Shoshoni understands. He can conceive of none aside from those which go towards nourishing the body or appeasing the appetite. The young man after death continues to hunt, while the old man has everything necessary for himself without labor.
A Shoshoni warrior dressed in all bis finery is a picturesque object. He has a fine blanket of blue; blue leggings heavily trimmed with red cloth and masses of white beads; a hunting-shirt of tanned buckskin adorned with heavy fringes of the same along the seams, on the shoulders and around the waist and skirts, and dense rows of white and pink beads on the shoulders and outside of the sleeves. His hair is braided up and adorned with brass bosses; huge hoops of brass wire are in his ears, and his fingers are plentifully adorned with brass rings—as many as ten frequently being on one finger. His moccasins are well beaded over, and his broad-brimmed black hat adorned with feathers. His horse, too, comes in for his share of adornment; the check-pieces of the bridle being made of red cloth; the brow-band finely ornamented, and the bit heavy with curved horse-shoe nails. The stock of his rifle is studded with brass nails, as is also the sheath of his knife, while the saddle is covered with heavy cloth. No people in the world are more fond of display. These beaux of the wilderness have a high opinion of themselves, and are as grave and dignified as can be; they think the world beside does not coutain such finery as is done up on the outside of a Shoshoni brave.
They are not bloodthirsty as a race, but are inclined to be peaceful, nor are they quarrelsome, but love to take their ease. They know how to appreciate a good horse, and some of them have small herds of cattle. Their history, so far as known, is not a bloody one, they as a general thing preferring to seek the fastnesses of the mountains to fighting. But it must not be inferred from this that they are a cowardly race, they being brave, adventurous, and excellent guides. Until the jast few years they were very poor indeed. Words can scarcely express their extreme poverty when first met by white people. They seemed to have very few worldly goods, were indifferently armed, and with great difficulty succeeded in taking a few buffaloes. In the fishing season they caught great quantities of salmon-trout in Snake River, which they preserved as well as they could tor winter use. At times, too, they succeeded in capturing many antelopes, but still they often sufiered from hunger and cold, being improvident and unskilled in the ways of. preserving fish and meat.
The men among the Shoshonis are true republicans, each one being a sovereign, and subject to no man. He is sole owner of his wives and daughters and can dispose of them as he sees fit. The children are seldom if ever chastised, as the Indians say it breaks their spirits, and they are ever afterward cowed down. Plurality of wives is very common, an Indian buying as many as he can maintain. Iemale children are betrothed when very ycung, and sent off to the lodges of their hus

<<<Page: 333>>>

3a2 ANTHROPOLOGY.
bands as soon as they get old enough. The price of a squaw varies considerably, but generally amounts to three or four horses or mules, and several plugs of tobacco. Sisters are not usually married to the same man, as it is considered better to change about, and have relatives in as many families as possible. The squaws collect roots, and cook, put up the lodges and take them down, dress the skins, and make clothing. They also make parfleches, or heavy bags of buffalo skin, in which buffalo meat and fat are packed away, and manufacture bowls and baskets from wood and grass. They collect seeds and wood, and take care of the horses, load and unload the animals, and have general charge of the baggage. The whole drudgery of camp devolves upon them, and the life which women lead among the savages is one of abject slavery. An Indian thinks it beneath his dignity to do any kind of work except hunting, fishing, and engaging in war.
In the long and dreary days of winter the Indians sit in their lodges, where there is a good supply of meat, and pass the time as best they can. They tell stories of their hunting expeditions and war parties, and embellish their narratives as much as possible. They tell of the Great Brown Bear of the Mountains, who dwells amid the snows that hang about their summits, and whose howls mingle with the thunders of summer and the wild wailings of the winter storm; of Giant Big Horn, who roams through the deep gorges of the Sierras, and climbs the rugged rocks, whose feet are swifter than the north wind, and as untiring as the rushing waters. They tell of the ghosts, or Tsoaps, who haunt the meadows and forests, and are ever ready to give them warning of the time of their departure to the land of spirits. They tell of the Big Beaver, who dwells in the marshes near Green River, whose breath can split the hardest rock, and the fire from whose eyes can melt the thickest ice. They tell of the Black Raven, who sits above the battleground where so many Shoshonis were killed by the Sioux in 1869, who croaks over the remains of the dead and flaps his broad wings noiselessly through the dreary nights when the moon is dead. These stories and many more they tell each other, until, like children, they cower near the lodge-fires and are afraid to go out alone. Never were there more marvelous story tellers, and never were there more willing listeners. Almost every summer they get thoroughly frightened by some prophet predicting the speedy end of the world.
Old and young mount their ponies, and, crossing the mountains, assemble near Bear River, where they go through a series of dances, incantations, and rites until they are almost beside themselves with excitement. This excitement disappears as quickly as it makes its appearance, and then all hands pack up again and bundle themselves off home as contented as can be. Instead of doing harm, these meetings seem to do a great deal of good. They stir up the Indian blood and the excitement exhausts itself. Were it not for these displays the Indians might consider it their duty to make a raid upon some white man’s

<<<Page: 334>>>

flocks and herds, and carry off a few head of horses by way of variety; but after having glorified themselves sufiiciently they are willing to remain quiet for a considerable time and smoke their pipes with renewed pleasure.
RUINS IN WHITE RIVER CANON, PIMA COUNTY, ARIZONA. By R. T. Burr, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A.
In White River Canon, situated in the Chirachui Mountains, in Southeastern Arizona, about 35 miles south of Camp Bowie, and 25 or 30 miles north of the Mexican line, I discovered the remains ot an ancient settlement shortly after the establishment of Camp Supply, May 1, 1878. White River Cation is near the southern portion of the mountain chain opening to the west. There are many indications that this canon and vicinity have in the past been occupied by a race much superior to the Apaches.
The ruins are located in the forks of two branches of White River, or where Henley’s Branch joins the main stream from the south. The land is at present a military reservation. They are less than 100 yards from either branch of the stream, on a ridge 40 or 50 feet above the riverbed. The land is rather rocky, but in many places there is excellent alluvial soil along the streams. In the vicinity of the ruins are at least 1,000 acres susceptible of irrigation. The canon has now a growth of pine, oak, juniper, some walnut, and a few sycamores. The surrounding mountains are well covered with pine and oak. It is impossible to tell what changes have taken place since these ruins were occupied. They must have been considerable, as the water supply in the dry season is now limited, the river ceasing to run, and only holding water in a few places.
Rucker’s Spring is a large basin of water that contains as much at one season as at another. The water is strongly impregnated with sulphur.
The remains occur in groups, some consisting of from two to four or five squares or circles, showing that at the time they were built defense was not a primary object. Isolated in the heart of the mountains, this community would be first exposed to the hostiles, and probably fall a prey to the Apache invasion from the north.
The other two isolated groups are small, the nearest having three or four squares and no circles; the second, on the east of Rucker’s Branch, having tive or six squares from 10 to 15 by 20 or 30 feet. The ruins described seem to be the most important ones. I took a sketch of the ground-plan of the ruins. I traced out the walls of the main building as well as I could, the only guide I had being the upright stones placed singly from 6 to 12 inches apart. No remains of a wall exist save these stones that are placed on end and partly buried in the ground. Walls or lines are, with one exception, due north and south, and east and west. I tested this by means of a compass, and, making allowance for variations of the needle, they are certainly wonderfully correct. The walls,

<<<Page: 335>>>

if they were walls, must have been made of adobe, and the heavy rainfalls of the cation, about 30 inches this year, would have destroyed all traces, as this building was crected on the incline of the ridge, wh'le the circles are on the level ground. The large circles, all about 50 feet, in diameter, have the walls much better preserved than the squares. The mounds are from 12 inches to 2 feet higher than the surrounding land, and, in some cases, spread out some 4 to 10 feet. The walls seem to have been made of adobe and stones.
Near the center of most of the mounds is quite a depression, caused, I suppose, by the washing down of the walls. I can see no evidence of special construction in the center. The materials could be obtained in abundance in the immediate vicinity. None have been explored, as labor is so high here that I have not been able to bear the expense, and, indeed, had but little hope of finding anything worth the while. On the ground I have found an abundance of pottery in small pieces, some of it glassy, one piece ornamented in colors, many bits carved or marked.
For eight or nine months of the year White River would afford, at the present period, abundance of water. Rainfall begins in the latter part of June or the first of July, and continues almost every afternoon for sixty days, and the river remains full many months after.
These mountains have long been the stronghold of the Apaches, and, so far as I can learn, none of our scouts ever noticed the remains. The Indian scouts have a tradition that this cation has evil men living in it. There are no recent signs of occupation by Apaches.
In conclusion, I would remark that I have thought that the quadrangles and the circles were to be attributed to different peoples and different dates. The circles, seemingly more recent, may have been built by the Apaches in ages past, or by people less advanced in civilization than the first inhabitants. The small circles, about 3 feet in diameter, were ovens. They have a floor of flat stones well fitted, around which a wall is built up 8 to 12 inches high. There is no indication of a covering. In one I discovered some charred juniper-wood.
I found here a stone mortar weighing about 100 pounds. The cavity is four inches in diameter and as many deep, perfectly round. It is conveniently located near the four ovens. On the hillside I also found another mortar that had been turned over, and two broken metatés.
Near the mouth of the cafon, and distant from camp about 6 miles, are some ruins that [ have not examined with care. They consist principally of quadrangles of small size, 15 by 20 feet, and but few together. One group that I came across was at some distance from permanent water. There is a small ravine close by that now affords water in the wet season. This last group was on a high hill, and no agricultural ground was near, the ravine having precipitous banks. Other ruins are scattered along the banks of White River after it reaches the open plain outside the caion; but where they are placed no water is to be found in the dry season, it being at least 2 to 5 miles to the nearest permanent supply.

<<<Page: 336>>>

MOUNDS IN WINNEBAGO COUNTY, WISCONSIN. By THoMas ARMSTRONG, of Ripon, Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin.
There are many “ancient aboriginal structures” in this section; mounds of various slrapes, and designed for various uses, being very plentiful.
The only other indications of the occupation of this region by the aborigines are stone axes, arrow and spear heads, chips of flint, and pieces of broken pottery, which may be found in almost any newlyplowed field, or in gullies washed by the rains.
The mounds which are especially to be noticed in this communication are in the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section 34, township of Nepeuskun, Winnebago County, Wisconsin, on the property of a Mr. Hintz.
They are situated about ten rods from the shore of Rush Lake, 60 feet back from the edge of a steep bank, which undoubtedly at one time formed the shore of the lake, whose waters have now receded, and are every year becoming more and more shallow, and giving place to marsh.
The mounds were originally covered with a heavy growth of oaks, which have been cleared oft within the last ten years, and the land eultivated. Some stumps of trees of from 100 to 150 years’ growth remained on them until this last summer.
The mounds are in a group, of which No. 1 is isolated, and Nos. 2, 3, and 4 are in a line, the nearest about 200 feet from No. 1.
Nos. 1 and 4 are about 15 feet in diameter, and 24 feet high; No. 2, 56 by 42 feet, and 3} feet high; No. 3, 30 by 40 feet, and 33 feet high; Nos. 2 and 3 are 75 feet apart. A quadrilateral ridge, indistinct in some places, but quite prominent enough to be easily recognized, and having on it several small mounds at irregular intervals, passes through Nos. 1 and 2. The*mounds 2, 3, and 4 are the only ones which are very distinet and striking.
The shape of all was once circular, or nearly so, but it has since been changed to oval by long cultivation.
All except No. 2 are composed of the same sort of material as the ordinary surface soil of the surrounding fields, and these fields were undoubtedly the source whence it was derived.
No ditches or hollows from which such a quantity of earth could have been taken are now to be seen in the vicinity, and it must therefore have been seraped uniformly from the surface.
No. 2. however, is of different material, having in its center a stone heap covered with the same sort of earth as the others. This is the largest mound on Rush Lake, and peculiar in this regard, for in most of the other mounds not even a pebble could be found, and in none were there rocks of any great size; but here was a conical pile of bowlders, such as the farmer to-day hauls off his fields, built in the exact center of the mound, and reaching to within a few inches of the surface. We

<<<Page: 337>>>

explored the four mounds. In 1 and 4 we found nothing; but in 2 and 3 human remains were plentiful enough, and a quantity of these, in a tolerably good state of preservation, we were able to obtain. Some of these are now in the cabinet of Ripon College, Ripon, Wis., and some are in my possession.
No account of these mounds has, so far as I know, ever been published; certainly no examination of them prior to ours has ever been made, though similar mounds on the sections adjoining these, and likewise situated on the shore of Rush Lake, were described by me in a paper read before the Lapham Archeological Society in 1877.
Mound No. 2, as I have said, is a conical stone pile, built of bowlders weighing from 5 to 100 pounds, and perhaps 50 innumber. Underneath this stone pile, and somewhat mingled with its lower layer, was a large quantity of ashes and charcoal, and also human remains; most distinet among them was the skeleton of a full-grown man of ordinary size—his ‘thigh-bone measuring 17 inches—lying in a doubled-up position, with his head toward the west, and near it the remains of three or more other human beings. These bones were in such a crumbling condition that it was very difficult to save any of them, but, nevertheless, by careful work we were enabled to get out two skulls and several long bones. These were all found at the depth of 3 feet 6 inches, and had evidently been placed on the original surface and the mound heaped over them.
Mound No. 3 was more fruitful in relics than its larger neighbor. On and near the surface were a few small rocks, weighing from 1 to 30 pounds, not arranged in any order, and not found after we had dug a foot or two into the mound.
At the depth of 2 feet we found a few small and much broken pieces of pottery, made of a reddish clay mixed with fine particles of broken stone. The pieces were too few, small, and badly broken to admit of even a guess at the articles of which they once formed a part. They had never been burned, as it seemed to us, and were very fragile, ready to crumble at the slightest touch. <A piece of red chalk, or soft chalklike stone, with which a red mark can be made on wood or paper, and a small chip of flint were the only other relics found in this mound, except the bones which we came upon at the depth of 3 feet. These were much better preserved than those in No. 2, and we were able to obtain a large number in tolerably good condition, among them several skulls.
So far as we could determine, there seemed to be no order whatever observed in the arrangement of these bones; skulls and long bones, ribs and finger and toe bones were mixed in utter confusion. In no case did a skeleton seems to have been placed in the mound entire. The bones of twenty-five or thirty individuals had evidently been gathered into a heap on the original turf, and a simple mound raised over them. It was very evident that no pit had been dug to receive them, and the only question is why the bones were in this confused condition.

<<<Page: 338>>>

MOUNDS IN WINNEBAGO COUNTY, WISCONSIN. oo
That these were not the remains of warriors slain in battle is evident from the number of bones of children found in the mounds, and also from the very great number of bones to be found in these and neighboring mounds.
No other bones than those of human beings were found, nor did any of them bear marks of fire, though ashes and charcoal occurred in a layer about 6 inches above the remains.
A skull obtained from this mound, the pieces of which we have been able to put together so as to get some idea of its original shape, is of fair size, with low forehead and very narrow across the eyes; the great bulk of the head, and by far its highest part, being back of the coronal suture. From the forehead the skull slopes rapidly up to this highest portion, and on its summit, an inch from the coronal suture, and $ of an inch to the left of the sagittal suture, is a remarkable circular depression, an inch in diameter. It shows no signs of fracture or violence, and the inside of the skull shows no corresponding elevation. What could have occasioned this thinning of the bone we cannot tell; we orly know that it must have been done long before the death of its owner, for the wound, or whatever it is, is perfectly healed, and the bone in the depression as smooth and of the same sort as the remainder of the skull. Viewed as a whole the cranium appears very one-sided.
Several lower jaws with teeth still in them were also obtained from this mound, but not much could be learned from them excepe that the jaw was massive, and the teeth large, strong, and well preserved. In fact, in many cases, the enamel was completely worn through on the crown of the teeth, and yet they showed no signs of decay; we found no defective teeth whatever. In the case of one individual the teeth on one side of the jaw were very badly worn off, while on the other no wearing at all was visible.
All the bones we obtained were of ordinary size, and could be matched in any collection of modern bones. A general characteristic of the skulls was the very low and narrow forehead.
The gentlemen who accompanied me on this expedition, and to whom much of its suecess is owing, were Prof. A. H. Sabin and Mr. Lverett Martin, both of Ripon, Wis.
The following are extraets from my paper on the Gleason mounds, as read before the Lapham Archeological Society last year:
“These mounds are situated on the southern shore of Rush Lake, on land belonging to Mr. Gleason, in the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 27, and the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 26, township of Nepeuskun, Winnebago County, Wisconsin, and were visited by a party of students from Ripon College, May we LST.
“The mounds, sixteen in number, are ranged in an irregular line running essentially east and west, about 20 rods from the shore of the lake, which is here high and steep, though all the adjacent shores are low ang
S. Mis. 54-—22

<<<Page: 339>>>

marshy. The mounds are in what is now a wheat field, formerly covered with timber—an oak tree, some 60 years old, having been cut from the summit of one of them. All these mounds are circular in form, varying from 15 to 30 feet in diameter, and from 24 to 54 feet in height, though not much can be said with certainty about this latter dimension, the land having been cultivated for a number of years, and the mounds plowed down as much as possible every year.
“We selected the largest and most conspicuous mound we could find, the fourth or fifth from the eastern end of the line, and sank a trench into it. Each shovelful of the soil thrown out was carefully examined, but it was found to present no different appearance from that of the surrounding field, until we had reached the depth of 18 inches, when a few pieces of coarse-grained charcoal were found. The earth now began to show the action of heat, it being harder and of a reddish hue, until at the depth of 2 feet 6 inches layers of ashes mixed with earth began to present themselves. These appearances were not the same all through the trench on the same level, being only seen near the ends of it, as if separate fires had been built. These appearances continued until we had reached the depth of 3 feet 9 inches, the ashes meanwhile growing more plentiful, when we found charred bones, evidently those of human beings, mixed with the earth and ashes. A few inches more of calcined earth were passed and then we struck bones in earnest.
‘‘ Within the space of 3 feet square we uncovered 7 skulls, mingled with the various long, short, and flat bones of the human body. These, anlike those in the upper stratum, did not show the action of fire in the least, but were so badly decayed that we could get none of them out entire,
“The bones were not arranged in any order whatever; no single skelcton even could be traced through the mass. We did not uncover all the bones in the mound, but, finding that none of them could be taken out entire, contented ourselves with digging through the layer of bones and earth, which was about 4 inches thick, to the hard subsoil underneath, which we found so compact that we concluded it had never been disturbed, and so did not go deeper.
‘A careful search failed to bring to light any ornaments or implements of any kind.
“We now abandoned this mound, and, selecting two nearer the eastern end of the line, which in size were most unlike the first and unlike each other, proceeded to sink trenches into them. In the larger of these at the depth of 4 feet human bones were found, which were much better preserved than those in the first mound opened, though they showed the same lack of arrangement and dearth of ornaments and implements. Fewer ashes were found in this mound and no chareeal or burnt bone.
“In the third mound, at the depth of 24 feet, a skeleton was found lying with its head toward the west. This was in so good a state of preservation that many of the more heavy and solid bones could be taken

<<<Page: 340>>>

out; this skull, like all the others, could not be gotten out except in small pieces.
“This was the only mound of the three into which we dug, in which a skeleton could be traced, and even in this the bones were somewhat crowded together, the skeleton not lying extended at full length, and also somewhat mixed up with others, though, I think, fewer bones had been buried in this mound than in any of the others.
“T would mention that the second and third mounds were much smaller than the first.
‘The bones belonged to individuals of ordinary size, the largest to a man perhaps 64 feet tall, but certainly not any taller than that.
‘¢ As to how the bones came to be placed in these mounds we can, of course, only conjecture; but from their want of arrangement, from the lack of ornaments and implements, and from their having been placed on the original surface (for the old turf was visible just under the lowest bone layer in the second mound) we are inclined to believe that the dry bones were gathered together—those in the larger mounds first and in the smaller ones afterward, and placed in loose piles on the ground, and then earth heaped over them until the mounds were formed. Where the earth came from, if it was not scraped uniformly from the surface of the surrounding fields, is more than we can say, for there are no hollows anywhere about the mounds from which such a quantity could have been taken. It also seemed, from the ashes and charred bones near the surface, that the larger mounds had been used as a place for sacrifices or feasts.”
Professor Sabin, Mr. Martin, and I afterward made an investigation into another of these Gleason mounds. This one is situated near the center of the group; is 30 feet in diameter and 33 feet high. Like the others, it contained nothing but bones, was built of the same material, and had its full share of ashes and charcoal. But unlike the others, however, the bones had not been placed on the original surface, but in an oval pit 18 inches deep, 8 feet long, and 5 feet wide, its major axis lying in a general northwest and southeast direction. In this case some arrangement was apparent, the bones of the lower extremities being, as a rule, near the center of the pit, and those of the trunk and upper extremities ranged around the sides.
On the shores of Green Lake, 6 miles west of this place, are a large number of mounds, which have not as yet received any thorough investigation. They consist, first, of circular, flat-topped mounds built on a high bank at the northeast end of the lake, mostly in section 27, township of Brooklyn, Green Lake County, Wisconsin. They were evidently built for observation, as they command a view of the whole length of the lake; and careful digging hus failed to reveal relies of any kind buried in them.

<<<Page: 341>>>

They are all built after the same pattern, about 28 feet in diameter at the base and from 6 to 10 feet in diameter at the summit, usually 3 or 4 feet high, but some of them being near the top of a steep side-hill, of course the lower side is much higher than this.
They are 16 in number, and at distances from each other varying from 15 to 80 feet, according to the nature of the shore, being erected only on commanding elevations.
This is still a favorite camping-ground for the Indians, many wigwams having been located here last summer. The locality is known as Pleasant Point.
Near the opposite shore of the lake, in section 34, township of Green Lake, same county, are a great number of long mounds, round mounds, and a few shaped like animals. One, which we called the “ Beaver Mound,” we dug into in several places, and near the center of the body we found, at the depth of 1 foot 7 inches, a thin layer of charcoal. Nothing else was discovered. This mound is situated in the woods, and several large trees of second-growth timber are standing on it. Near by, as Prof. C. A. Kenaston, of Ripon, who owns the land, tells me, are the remains of an ancient corn-field, the hills of which can even yet be distinguished in places where the underbrush has been cleared away.
From this place down the lake for a mile is a high, sloping shore, wooded down to the water’s edge, except where clearings have been made for the erection of summer cottages, of which there are a large number, the spot being a very beautiful one. Several fine springs are scattered along the shore, the beach furnishes a good landing place for boats, and fish are plentiful in the lake.
Within this mile there are no less than 30 mounds of all shapes and sizes, some circular, some long, some in the shape of animals. Of these, the long mounds are the most remarkable, some of them running parallel with the shore and some at various angles toit. Their general outline is that of a ridge 6 inches to 1 foot high, 4 to 6 feet across, and often terminating at one end in an irregular expansion, higher and broader than the main ridge.
On land belonging to Mr. Cyrus Dodge, in section 34, township of Green Lake, are two of these long mounds, beginning within 20 feet of the lake and running back at right angles to it, one 210 feet, the other 220 feet long, both terminating in irregular expansions about 18 feet in diameter and 2 feet high. The mounds are parallel, and 40 feet apart. At the end of the former is a slight depression for 20 feet, and then another round mound 18 feet in diameter, which has a tail running off across the road and into the woods 135 feet.
On the property of Mr. Hill, adjoining Mr. Dodge on the west, are a few long and round mounds, not very well defined, however. But in the lot adjoining Mr. Dodge’s on the east are a number of mounds running parallel with the shore of the lake, and still very distinct.
1 made two exeavations in No. 1, one in the center of the tail, as we

<<<Page: 342>>>

might call it, and found nothing; the other in’ the cireular head of the nound, and at the depth of less than two feet found the badly-decayed skeleton of a human being, which had evidently been placed in the mound long after its construction, as the earth still showed signs of having been disturbed, and the remains were buried much nearer the surface than is usual in mound burial about here.
About one-fourth of a mile east of these again, on the property of Mr. J. Bowen, is a long mound at right angles to the lake shore, and 100 feet in length; also an animal-shaped mound 95 feet long.
Besides these there are circular and irregular shaped mounds in great abundance on Mr. Bowen’s place, several of which have been opened, and, so far as I can learn, nothing of interest found in them. And this brings us again to the land of Professor Kenaston, on which is the beaver mound and corn-field above spoken of.
These embrace nearly all the mounds on the shores of Green Lake, all of which are situated at its eastern end. Many of them have been opened, but in none except the one from which I obtained the recent skeleton have relics of any kind been found, so far as I can learn. There are still a few—twelve, I think—at the northern and western end of the lake, in sections 3, 4, 9, township of Dayton, Green Lake County, which we have not as yet found opportunity to examine carefully.
MOUNDS NEAR QUINCY, ILLINOIS, AND IN WISCONSIN. By WILLIAM GILBERT ANDERSON, of Quincy, Ill.
In the vicinity of Quincy, Ill., along the banks of the Mississippi River, there are numbers of burial mounds of unusual size and beauty, made with wonderful precision, and varying in height from 5 to 30 feet. These are all circular, no animal mounds being found in this neighborhood. They are built on high prominent land overlooking the river, while on the opposite side, in Missouri, there are none. Excavations were made during the years 1875, ’76, and ’77, and. over fifty mounds were opened, all built after the following plan: First, the ground was trampled down firmly, then the body was placed in its position; a layer of fine sand was thrown over the body, upon which was built a fire, remains of which are now found in the shape of charcoal; over this were three successive layers of gravel, sand, and fine gravel mixed with dirt. Im smaller mounds there are two layers, one of dirt and the other of sand. The sand corresponds to the river sand, and was brought a distance of three miles. Near the edge of the mounds are found the skeletons of Indians who were buried later than the moundbuilders. As many as thirty skeletons have been taken from one mound, They are buried without any apparent system, being merely thrown in and covered up. The skulls of these Indians have foreheads averaging

<<<Page: 343>>>

about half an inch in height, and in comparison with the skulls found in the center of the mounds show that they are of a much lower grade. The bones of the late Indians are in good condition and are easily removed. Scattered through the mounds are found shells, broken pottery, and flint. In some cases it is hard to say whether the pottery belongs to the mound-builders or the late Indians, as it is found with both. The shells are evidently fresh-water species, and are brought from quite a distance, as they are not found in this vicinity. When found they are white and crumble easily. On account of age the outside has fallen off, thus leaving only the pearl. A large quantity of flint is also seattered through the mounds. The flint is of no particular shape and is broken in small pieces. This is, however, not properly flint, but chert. One excavating finds the earth very compact and solid, and can even with a pick do but little work. Just before reaching the center of the mound the remains of charcoal are found in small quantities. Asa general rule the bodies are found in a rude coffin which can hardly be called a sarcophagus. This coffin is made of rude slabs of limestone, which is found in this neighborhood in abundance. The slabs were at one time fastened together by what seems to be a cement. The whole inside of the coffin was plastered with the same kind of cement, thus making it for a time perfectly tight. The body was placed in the sarcophagus with its head pointing toward the east, and with the body were buried a few valuables, such as necklaces, pottery, &c. The skeletons of small animals resembling squirrels and rabbits have also been found buried with the bodies. Urns were placed at the head, evidently containing food of some kind. The necklaces were made of pieces of shell and the claws of wolves. Two bodies have been found in one coffin with their heads pointing east and west. These coffins when found are broken and fallen to pieces, and the bones of the mound-builders are so far decayed and so damp that to remove them is almost an impossibility. They crush when any weight comes in contact with them, but on being exposed to the air they turn white and become hard. The weight of one of these coflins is about 1,700 pounds, and they cannot therefore be removed.
The pottery found in these mounds is made of clay and rudely decorated, but contains no hieroglyphics. The vessels hold from 2 gills to several gallons. A few pipes have also been found. Two were filled, but with what could not be ascertained. It was evidently not dirt. Quite a number of pieces of wood are found in the mounds, but too far decayed to be removed. From one mound an image was taken weighing 13} pounds. It was made of a greenish stone resembling granite, nicely polished, and very perfectly made. In one end a hole was bored, through which a thong or string was passed, evidently for the purpose of suspending it from the neck. The base was oval-shaped, sloping upward to a figure which, in its general appearance, resembled a lamb, but what it was intended to represent is difficult to say. The exact nature of the

<<<Page: 344>>>

stone was not ascertained, but there is no stone in these regions resembling it.
In none of these excavations have copper or copper implements been found. Three pieces of lead have been dug up, weighing 6, 8, and 11 ounces respectively. The lead had no special shape, but had evidently been melted and thrown into the mounds. Lead is found in these regions, but not in abundance. A few stone adzes and flint arrow-heads, &e., have been unearthed. In the center of one mound a body was found in a sitting posture, its head resting on its knees and the hands clasped around the ankles. Around the body was a limestone box, which had fallen to pieces. With this body were buried two pipes and a quantity of broken pottery.
In opening the mounds one thing is noticeable in regard to the position of the skeletons. Some of them have been found with their feet lying as near as 6 inches from the head, and the whole skeleton in a disordered condition. Around it the coffin was disturbed in a similar way, the stones lying far apart. In several cases the skeletons and the coffins have the appearance of having been disturbed by a movement of the earth.
About three miles north of Quincy, built upon the highest of a range of hills,isalookout mound. The tumulus itself is about 15 feet in height, while the hill is over 300 feet high. This is the highest mound in this vicinity, and from the top one can obtain a view for nearly 18 miles around,
Near Madison, Wis., there are hundreds of animal mounds, averaging about 34 feet in height. The burial mounds are very low and poorly made. Eight of these have been opened, and all without exception have been built in the same way, with only one layer of earth, and that a large layer of simply black dirt. The earth is very firm and hard, making the work of excavation exceedingly laborious. These mounds are about 4 feet high, and are all circular. Skeletons are found as near as 12 or 13 inches from the surface, but are in a very poor condition and can hardly be removed.
There are no sarcophagi or coffins of any description, nor were the bodies buried as most of the bodies of the regular mound-builders were. In all cases the head points toward the west. On the foreheads of two skeletons there were found two stones weighing about two pounds each. Pottery is found buried in these mounds, rudely decorated and generally broken. One vessel, when restored, was found to hold about a gallon.
From one mound was taken a large clay platter 14 inches in diameter and 1 inch in thickness. This was covered with charcoal, and the ground around it for a radius of about 8 inches had the appearance of having been burned. But in this mound there were no skeletons, only some flint. About a foot under the surface of the ground was found a layer

<<<Page: 345>>>

of thick gravel, and under this simply a layer of sand, a characteristic of the ground in that vicinity.
These mounds are of a much poorer quality than those-farther south. On the largest mound visited, near the center, was found a stump of a tree 20 inches in diameter, but too far decayéd to note accurately the annular rings (125 were counted). Near the edge of the mound stands a tree 11 inches in diameter.
Out of these eight mounds only five skeletons were taken. Two or three whole arrow-heads were found, also a large quantity of broken pottery.
The animal mounds represent many figures, which were probably but the conceptions of the builders. In many eases it is hard to tell what they represent, on account of the brush and trees which have grown over them. On the sloping shores of Lake Mendota are many of these mounds, and running parallel to the lake are ridges about 260 feet long, forming rude steps.
There is one mound, having the shape of a bear, 60 feet in length and about 3 feet high. Also, a snake mound, with four curves, is noticeable. At the head of the mound two stones, weighing about 500 pounds each, indicate the eyes.
Mounds made to represent bears, snakes, alligators, deer, &c., are very numerous.
By SAMUEL B. Evans, of Ottumwa, Iowa.
The opinion held by some writers that successive peoples are attracted to the same localities and build towns on the ruins of those of their predecessors holds good in the Des Moines Valley. The writer has passed almost a quarter of a century in this region, which he has partially explored in the search of relies of the unknown race. Who the moundbuilders were, or whence they came, is the problem we wish to solve; and in the narration of simple facts by observers at different points there may be collected a mass of testimony which may lead to clearing up the mystery. It has been my privilege to examine rather critically some of the mounds in the vicinity of Ottumwa, Iowa, the exact locations of which are shown in the diagram on the next page.
In the group known as the Sugar Creek mounds are two which I have personally examined. My mode of examination was to dig a trench 2 feet in width, beginning at the outer limit of the base, and thence to the center, digging down to the original soil. These mounds measured 50 feet in diameter and 150 feet in circumference, and are about 34 feet in height. In Mound No.1 of the Sugar Creek group I found nothing but bits of charcoal and decomposed ashes. This mound is on the highest point in the vicinity, and may be termed for convenience a mound for

<<<Page: 346>>>

observation, as it overlooks the one lying north of it, and from its summit the Trawell group is visible. No. 2 of the Sugar Creek group was also examined and a few bones discovered. It is GO feet in diameter and 180 feet in circumference, and has growing on it trees over one foot in diameter. The decayed trunk of a large tree was found lying on its summit. A few bones were discovered here, including a portion of the skull bone, which was so much decayed as to fall to pieces upon exposure to the air. No implements, not even broken arrow-heads, were found
No. 1. Mound on section 13, township 72, range 14.
No. 2. On section 21, township 72, range 13; known as the Sugar Creek mounds.
Nos. 3 and 4, On section 29, township 72, range 13; known as the Trawell and Stiles mounds, respectively.
Nos. 5 and 6. On sections 7 and 8, township 71, range 13; known as the Village Creek mounds.
Seale of diagram: Five-eighths of an inch to the mile.
here. East of Mound No. 1, and one-fourth of a mile distant, the rey) ? mains of an ancient furnace or hearth were found, and in the vicinity of the hearth a number of arrow-heads. This furnace presented the appearance of great age, and was first brought to my notice by Capt. W. li. Kitterman, a very intelligent observer and an old settler in the ? f=)

<<<Page: 347>>>

vicinity, who would have known of it long before had it been used by the whites who came on the heels of the departing Indians.
The Trawell group has only been partially examined. It consists of three mounds, of about the same size and appearance as those last described, and perhaps of the same character. One of them was opened in 1877 by Mr. Trawell, who obtained from it one small hatchet of greenstone. From the Trawell group the Stiles mounds may be seen. These, as indicated by the diagram, are in the suburbs of the town of Ottumwa, and were examined by me in 1878; nothing of importance was found in them except a few broken arrow-heads, a small hatchet of greenstone, and some small bits of obsidian. If the valley and the intervening ridges were cleared of the growing young timber, one group of the Village Creek mounds, three and a half miles away, would be plain to view from the Stiles mounds. In the fall of 1877, in company with Mr. Richard Williams and Mr. A. T. Holly, of Ottumwa, I examined rather critically three of the Village Creek mounds. ‘They are situated as shown in the sketch, and include seven or eight in each group. The eastern group embraces the mounds which we examined with the most care. They are on a high ridge or promontory which juts out toward the river, presenting a view of the vailey below for miles in extent, and suggests to the observer that they might have been a system of signal stations, communiecating by the way of the Trawell and Stiles groups with the Sugar Creek mounds on the north side of the river. These mounds (the Village Creek group) are about 150 feet in circumference, 4 feet high, and 150 feet apart. They contain evidences of fire, and under the following conditions: after removing about 1 foot of earth we discovered a stratum, about 2 inches in thickness, of decomposed ashes, small bits of charcoal, and what appeared to be calcined bones. Two similar strata of ashes and charcoal were discovered on going down deeper into the mound, each occurring at intervals of about 1 foot. It is important to note that these strata extended to the outer circumference of . the mound, indicating that successive fires had been kindled covering the entire upper surface; substances were reduced to ashes and then covered with earth. A partial examination of mounds in the western section of the same group was made, and the same evidences of fire were obtained. White-oak trees 16 inches in diameter were found growing on mounds in this section, and stumps of decayed trees of larger circumference were found on two mounds of the eastern section.
In the month of July, 1878, in company with Hon. Robert Sloan and D.C. Beaman, esq., I visited the Ely Ford mounds, near Keosauqua, in Van Buren County. I here present a sketch of the ancient works and the surroundings.
No. 1. Shell-heap. In northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 3, 20 rods, N. 55° W., from mouth of Ely’s Creek; 20 feet above river bed; 40 feet from water’s edge. Large quantities of fresh-water

<<<Page: 348>>>

shells, pieces of pottery, broken arrow-heads, bones of animals, such as deer, wolf or dog and bear, and birds of various kinds.
No. 2. Mound in northeast quarter of southeast quarter of section 3, 10 rods, N., 60° W.
No. 2. On bluff point 100 feet above river bed, 200 feet from water’s edge; timber, large white oak and young jack oak. In this mound found human skull eatire except lower jaw, and leg bones; also fragments of pottery. Position of head southeast, 2 feet under mound sur-
face. DIAGRAM B.
Baplanations.
A bluff extends over sections 2 and 3, township 68, range 10. Mounds on section 3 are known as Ely lord wounds, from their vicinity to creek and old ford.
The square on the creek, near its mouth, isthe shell-heap referred to herein.
The stream running thr ugh Pittsburg is Chequest Creek.
Scale: Five-eighths of an inch to the mile.
No. 3. Half-moon-shaped mound 15 rods, N. 55° W., from No. 2; 200 feet from water’s edge; found thigh bones.
No. 4. Mound 15 rods, N. 459 W., from No. 3. No discoveries made
except small piece of pottery.

<<<Page: 349>>>

No. 5. Large mound, 60 feet in diameter, 5 feet 6 inches high; in northwest quarter of southwest quarter of section 2, 30 rods, S. 45° E., from mouth of Ely’s Creek; 100 feet above river bed; 20 rods from water’s edge. Decayed white oak stump, 24 inches in diameter, on mound 12 feet, N. 10° W., from center. Decayed oak stump, sixteen inches in diameter, 4 feet from center. Found human thigh bone by the south side of stump 5 feet below surface; also shells (fresh water) and upper arm bone.
The following are the measurements taken of the skull found in mound marked No. 2: Horizontal circumference, 20 inches; longitudinal are from nasal depression along middle line of skull to occipital tuberosity, 13 inches; transverse measurement, 5 inches; vertical height, 3.75 inches ; longitudinal measurement, 8 inches. On comparison it will be found that this skull resembles in some particulars the celebrated Neanderthal or cave skull of Prussia. It was found badly decayed, and was with difficulty removed. .
The description of ancient pottery found near the mouth of Chequest Creek, given in the next article, will also answer as a description of all the pottery mentioned in the foregoing.
Since writing the above I have explored the mounds near this city on the grounds of General J. M. Hederick, which are indicated in the sketch north of the city of Ottumwa. There are two prominent mounds, 50 feet in diameter, situated on the highest point in this vicinity; of which the southern one, which we shall denominate No. 1, was rather critically examined. <A shaft 6 feetin length and 4 feet wide was sunk in the center, revealing nothing of interest to the ordinary observer; but the mere fact that few relics were found makes the mound mystery still more profound. The material of which the mound was composed was foreign to the surroundings, and had been carried there. Beyond a few chips of flint nothing was found init. Itis of interest to note that signals could have been established between this mound and those heretofore described.
My attention had been frequently called to the presence of numerous mounds in the vicinity of Eldon, in Washington township, in this county. They were on the river-bottom, and I attached no importance to them from the fact that they were so situated. I could not believe that they were ancient works, as my experience had led me to believe that the mound-builders proper always selected the highest points for the ereetion of their tumuli. But I was prevailed upon to make an examination, and during the month of November, 1878, surveyed and examined them. On the farm of Saul Hearn, one and a half miles east of Eldon, on a level piece of ground of forty acres, now used as a sheep pasture, are three lines of mounds ranging east and west and varying in size from 10 feet to 50 feet in diameter. There are fifteen of them, five in each range, and the ranges about 80 yards apart. They are composed of loose sand and mold, and three of them contained human long bones, but no skulls were found. They vary in height from 13 to 24 feet. So soon

<<<Page: 350>>>

as I thrust the spade into one of them my suspicions were confirmed that they were not ancient, and my interest in them correspondingly decreased. I knew that I was on the old camping-ground of Black Hawk, and after examining the principal one rather critically 1 left the laborers, with instructions to them to open one of the smaller ones, and made < visit to the home of Mi. James Jordan, an old Indian trader, who lives two miles below on the same farm he has occupied for nearly half a century. Mr. Jordan was intimately acquainted with Black Hawk; was his chosen friend and companion, and from that distinguished chieftain learned that these mounds were the burial places of the slain Omahas, whom he (Black Hawk) had surprised and defeated in battle soon after his expulsion from [linsis. I particularly inquired of Mr. Jordan if he had ever talked with Black Hawk and other Indians about the mounds on the hills. He told me that he had, and that they had no knowledge of them; that they regarded them with awe and superstition and as having been made by people long ago and beyond any of their traditions. Investigations of hill mounds made the next day after talking with Mr. Jordan convinced me more fully of the antiquity of these works and with the idea that they were not made by any modern tribe of Indians, In returning to Ottumwa I stopped at Cliffland, a station on the Des Moines Valley Railroad, six miles distant from this city. On the highest point, and in view of the Village Creek mounds, on the opposite side of the Des Moines River, I discovered three mounds about forty yards apart lying in a range east and west. The eastern mound I excavated, discovering that it was composed of nearly the same material as the Village Creek mounds, viz, ashes and clay intermingled. These mounds are 50 feet in diameter and nearly 4 feet high. I found in the eastern mound several small stones of magnesian limestone, yel, low and red sandstone, a few pieces of flint, and all showing unmistakable evidences of having been exposed to considerable heat. There were no bones, but indistinct traces of bone material reduced to a gray pulpy mass. It is a noteworthy fact that after digging down one foot I found the interior material dry, very hard, and compact; so dry was the material that it seemed there was not a particle of moisture. Beneath this and at the bottom of the mound, and where the surface should have been, I found no traces of soil, but wet clay which seemingly had never been disturbed.
COMPOSITION OF ANCIENT POTTERY FOUND NEAR THE MOUTH OF CHEQUEST CREEK, AT PITTSBURGH, ON THE DES MOINES RIVER. By Ropert N. AND CHARLES L, DAHLBERG.
The pieces of pottery found are composed of clay and sand mixed with small pebbles, forming a cement which appears to be baked rather than burned. The most of the pieces found show that the heat applhed in its construction was not sufficient to melt the sand or pebbles, or in

<<<Page: 351>>>

any way affect their original condition. No glazing appears on-the pottery, and yet it is of a hard, firm, and durable substance which is impervious to water.. One piece of pottery is about feur inches square, but of an irregular shape. At one point it is shown to be a part of the top of a wide-mouthed vessel, evidently asout two inches less in diameter at the neck than at the top. Judging from the are described by the piece in question, the neck of the vessel must have been at least 18 inches in diameter. This piece also shows attempts at ornamentation, having a horizontal row of dots or beads about an inch and a half from the top of the vessel; these have the appearance of being made by punctures from the inside o. the vessel, and are about half an inch apart, or seven-eighths from center to center. There are also parallel lines running about it horizontally about half an inch apart, which have evidently been made by some blunt instrument about one-eighth of an inch square pressed into the clay, leaving little ridges between each impression of the instrument that would average about one-sixteenth of an inch thick. There are a number of small pieces; one showing distinctly the neck, and rim of the vessel above it, to be quite flaring; but this rim does not show entire. The rim is ornamented by diamond-shaped figures, made by lines crossing each other, which lines are formed very much like the parallel lines in the larger piece. Another piece shows parallel lines. One small piece is corrugated as the Ely Ford pottery, and shows distinctly the application of heat sufficient to fuse the silex in the composition of the pottery, making it a very hard and firm substance; this piece is thinner than the baked pieces. Another piece shows bead work distinctly about an inch from the top of the vessel; the body of the vessel ornamented with parallel lines running at right angles with the top of the vessel, made as in the first piece described, and the top itself ornamented in the way our mothers ornamented the edge of a pie. Several other pieces show the application of heat sufficient to fuse the silex used in their composition.
Several pieces, including the larger one described above, show on the edges glittering particles which appear to be small pieces of isinglass. This pottery was nearly all found on the surface of the ground, having been washed out by the action of the water. In the river bank in front of the village is also a bed of ashes and charcoal about 3 inches in depth and about 2 feet from the surface of the ground.
PREHISTORIC EVIDENCES IN MISSOURI. By G. C. BroapuEaD.
In many portions of the State of Missouri we find evidences of the existence, in years long past, of a now extinct race, in the form of rock vaults, earth mounds, stone axes, flint arrow and spear heads, and bones. In Pike County my attention was directed to an ancient walled burial

<<<Page: 352>>>

place situated on the summit of a ridge 250 feet in height, which rises on the north side of Salt River, in the southeast quarter of section 11, township 55, range 3 west. The walls were constructed of rough limestone taken from the subjacent strata of the hill, and they inclosed two vaults, each 9 feet square, and from 2 to 3 feet in height. The vaults were not exactly in the same line, but varied about 5°. Some of the stones had been removed and carried off. I saw only a few fragments of human bones, but was informed that other and very large bones hac been found. The annexed sketch exhibits the form and relative position
Sa SP bea.
Flan Fig. 1
ee UL
of the two vaults, with their dimensions in feet marked thereon. They appear to have been originally built with a step on the outer face,as shown at B. The outer portion of the wall lies partly tumbled as if pulled down. Other similar burial places have existed in the county, but at present their sites only remain, the stones having been used for building purposes.
Beck’s Gazetteer of Missouri, published in 1823, on pages 395 and 306, mentions curious ancient rock works two miles southwest of Louisiana, on the bluffs of Noix Creek. He describes them as having been built with great regularity on the top of a high bluff of the creek. As this book is now out of print and but few copies can be found, I thought it but proper to notice the account. I would add also that I have heard old citizens speak of these now demolished walls. The figure I copy from Beck. All the walls were of rough stone.
E is a chamber, 3 feet wide, which was probably arched the whole way, as portions of the arch still remained. It was made as represented in Fig. 7, and was probably about 5 feet above the ground. In F, a similar chamber, a portion of the arch was still remaining. H was a larger room with two entrances, I and K.-The walls of this room were partly remaining, from 3 to 5 feet high. Trees 2 feet in diameter were growing on the inside. Fig. 6 was a similar structure 89 rods due east, with two rectangular closed chambers and an oval chamber having no

<<<Page: 353>>>

communication with the others. A few human bones were found in G, but that does not determine it to be a place of sepulture.
In Montgomery County, on the bluffs of Prairie Fork, near its mouth, in the southeast quarter of section 9, township 47, range 6 west, there
Ancient Works on Noix Cr., Pike Co., Mo.
are remains of a similar walled burial place to that on Salt River, Pike County. The walled space is 10 feet square, and the walls were 2 feet high when I saw them in 1859. A few pieces of human bones were found.
Mr. E. P. West, of Kansas City, has enumerated about twenty-five mounds situated near the boundary line of Platte and Clay Counties, Missouri, located on the highest points of the Missouri Bluffs, most of them containing concealed rock vaults, generally directed north and south.
In the summer of 1878, in company with members of the Kansas City Academy of Science and the Kansas State Academy of Science, I spent a day in exploring certain of these mounds, which were found to be located on the tops of the higher bluffs, 259 feet above the Missouri bottoms, from which there is a fine view of the river above, below, and across. We noted seven mounds, as represented in the annexed sketch, Fig. 8.
Three of these (1, 2, and 3) form a nearly equilateral triangle, and are about 40 to 45 feet apart. Externally. they seemed to be nicely rounded earth mounds, but digging into them each disclosed regularlybuilt walls about 3 feet high, exactly at right angles to each other, and inclosing a space 7 feet 9 inches square. The walls were constructed of thin even layers of limestone laid flat upon each other, and built up with a regular, perpendicular face, in fact much more true to the line than many so-called masons would place them. The crypts

<<<Page: 354>>>

appeared to have been built above ground, the stone having been borne up the hill not. less than a quarter or perhaps a half mile, and from a location at least 100 feet lower. The rock in its original beds
ee tty Wy? We ity ling, ttt Wee, Ey a EA WZ f WN 5 lili, Gl"), % Ke Wp filly wilt Z,, =, “ \ bi, G2, Ei, 4G nitty,
Midis a = Ht), NT Y a\\ 4 ONE Sill, , Y % ly Wt, \ "E32 CAN Wy Nip ily Be itp I ye NRA Z ; si Mey AY fl! ", sttiz sh / {WM iS > Card Wigiisk Lyi, i NWONHAS ry 2 inlay {ENC eee 800 ft. = velit: a ” wt, WH) 1s, £ =Ss\ s aut Pann EIN rs, Ge 9 Oy SOW HIMY ae “an THE > LY QT mh an ZO NZ Gifs Vi ee Sis GY Cpe
Fia. 8.
is not found above 150 feet from the base of the hill, the hill above being covered with loess clays supporting a growth of large trees. Both of the mounds 1 and 3 contained human bones. In No. 3 several skulls and one good skeleton were found, together with fragments of others. With the exception of this one skeleton all seemed to have been buried in a sitting posture, or with knees bent, the hands close to or resting on the knees.
Y LS / / ees ST SSSR YYyyy > CSS Soe Fig. 10.
The bones, from long decay, could with difficulty be removed. This vault had an entrance 3 feet wide opposite the eastern side, as represented in Fig. 9.
The vault in mound No. 2 contained a large quantity of charcoal, with fragments of charred bones, and much of the clay was reddened by burning. This was evidently a cremation vault.
The vault of Mound No. 1 is similar in shape and contents to that of No. 2, but had been previously excavated and partly filled up. The vaults ineach of the mounds 1, 2, and 3, had entrances or openings in the wall 3 feet wide, extending to the bottom of the wall. The skulls contained full sets of sound teeth worn off smoothly.
Mound No. 4, the largest, is about 5 feet high and 40 feet in diameter, and is built entirely of earth. Excavations revealed one black flint spear-
S. Mis. 5423

<<<Page: 355>>>

point, a little charcoal, and a fragment of ochre. The stump of an oak 3 feet in diameter stood on the side of the mound, the trunk having been broken off apparently many years ago.
On Mound No.5 there stood a red-oak stump, which showed 200 rings of growth.
Mound No. 6 was similar to 1 and 2, and contained a concealed vault 7 feet 9 inches square, but without anentrance. Eight human skulls were obtained from this vault, but no complete skeleton, although some pieces of bones were exhumed in a fair state of preservation. In digging into this vault a few flags of limestone were found a few inches below the surface. Eighteen inches below was another fragmentary roof of limestone, beneath which skulls and portions of vertebra were disclosed. The flagstones were not regularly arranged nor quite close to each other, but only a few appeared to have been placed above the bones and then earth was heaped upon them. Some fragments of flagstones were also found in No. 2, perhaps the remains of a former roof.
The bones in the several mounds, or rather vaults, were generally soft, and as easily cut through with the spade as the earth itself; but some of them were firm. A few of the bones had been gnawed, probably by rodents, and do not furnish as some might say, evidences of cannibalism.
These I have not seen. They are located on the bluffs of Blackwater River, and are described as being very similar to those of Clay County, but of larger dimensions, with vaults built of stone, and having lids of the same kind of material, the whole covered over with earth so as to present the contour of large rounded mounds. Some pottery and flint implements have been obtained from them.
Ancient mounds or graves are found on the tops of the bluffs of all the principal streams of the Missouri. IJ have noticed them on the Mississippi at various places; on the Missouri, from Saint Charles County to Holt County; on the Osage, the Gasconade, the Sac, and Shoal Creek, and along other smaller streams. They are generally built of earth, being often constructed of stones arranged in a circle, their tops inclined towards the center, with earth heaped on the outer side. When rocks abound and earth is not easily obtained, I have observed them constructed solely of stones piled in a rough circular mound on the hilltop.
Jtock mounds have been observed on the summits of the highest bluffs, where the material had to be carried up 50 or 75 feet above the ledges.
It is but rarely that a single mound is found at a place, but there are generally several; three or four, or even a dozen, may be found arranged in a line, with their bases contiguous.
The earth mounds are generally circular, from 15 to 40 feet in diameter and from 3 to 6 feet high, and are often found with large trees growing

<<<Page: 356>>>

uponthem. When dug into, they disclose bones, and sometimes weapons or trinkets.
On Spencer’s Creek, Ralls County, near Fisher’s Cave, are mounds 7 feet high and 40 feet in diameter, with trees 24 feet in diameter growjng upon them. From this place, I was informed by Mr. Fisher, mounds can be traced in nearly a direct line to the mouth of Peno Creek, 6 miles off, none of them being over 300 yards apart, excepting across the bottom-lands, for they were all built on high ground. These are chiefly built of stones set on edge, sloping outward, and covered with about 2 feet of earth. Mr. F. also informed me that bones of men of large frame had been found there, buried with their feet to the east and head to the west, the grave roughly arched over with rock.
On the west side of Cedar Creek, on Missouri Bluffs, Boone County, are six mounds arranged nearly in a line and closely touching, three of them in a line N. 60° E., the others N. 65° EH. They are from 20 to 30 feet in diameter, and from 4 to 74 feet high, all circular. On them were growing sugar trees from 1 to 24 feet in diameter.
A mile east, on the top of a bluff 206 feet high, is another mound, 8 feet high, bearing a white-oak tree 23 feet in diameter.
Five miles east, also on the top of a high bluff, is another mound, 8 feet high, with a Spanish oak 2 feet in diameter growing upon it.
On the bluffs of Crows Fork, in Callaway County, are mounds with white-oak trees 2 feet in diameter growing upon them.
On Aux Vases Bluffs, in the same county, are many mounds yet unopened, and on Little Aux Vases Bluffs, near the Missouri bottoms, are mounds 3 to 4 feet high, bearing N. 65° W.; two of them with whiteoak trees 3 feet in diameter growing upon them.
On Middle Aux Vases and Missouri Blufis we observed a mound 6 feet high, with a black oak 2 feet in diameter growing upon it. One mile east and on Missouri Bluffs, are three mounds in a line, N. 65° E., built of stones and covered with earth. Sometimes, though rarely, flint arrow-heads have been found in these mounds, and at Saint Auberts, Osage County, a pipe and stone-beads were obtained.
But mounds are sometimes found on lower ground, though not on low bottoms. They are then often much larger than those above named. One at Ashburn’s, near the Mississippi River, in the northeast part of Pike County, is 6 feet high, and 50 feet in diameter. Another, unopened in 1858, two miles west of Cote Sans Dessein, Callaway County, is represented in Fig. 11.
In Franklin County, on the “flat” west of Berger Station, Pacific Railroad, are two mounds, each about 400 by 200 feet and 12 feet high, formed of dark clay. The excavation indicated a curved line of stratification parallel to the surface, showing that the earth had been regularly laid up and packed; and pursuing the same line was a stratum of calcareous concretions resembling those sometimes found in the “ bluff” formation. The railroad excavations cut through these mounds, and 6 feet below

<<<Page: 357>>>

the surface of one, a pipe and earthen pot were found. The pipe was made of a soft stone of alight-red color, and the earthen vessel apparently had been partially baked. It was 18 inches in diameter on the inside, 4+ inch thick, 24 inches deep, and 25 inches in greatest diameter, outside measurement. The bottom was # ? of an inch in thickness. Around the top were notches or tubercles 4 bineh long, and extending around the vessel was a punctured band having a hieroglyphic apppearance.
Mound two-and-a-half miles W. of Cote Sans ce Calloway Co., Mo.
Se Mpa
\\ WA toe.
Jection.
Fig. 11.
In Saline County, Missouri, four miles southwest of Miami, I visited, in 1872, an imitans ine eae showing ancient earthworks, walls, and ditches on high ground in a dense wood. The outline was somewhat of a circular shape, though quite irregular, caused by ravines breaking off near the outer rim, the walls being re-entrant at such places. The inclosed space is about 40 acres, around which there partly extended three ridges and two valleys, or rather depressions, where at one time existed deep ditches. We have first a ridge 8 feet wide and 3 feet high, then a ditch 6 feet wide and 3 feet deep, then a ridge 8 feet wide and 3 feet high, then a ditch 10 feet wide and 3 feet deep, and lastly a ridge 10 feet wide and 15 feet high. The ridges were apparently entirely formed of earth dug from the ditches, and two of them extended entirely around the space. No rocks appeared near by or in the inclosure. Black-oak trees 3 to 5 feet in diameter were growing over the walls, ditches, and inner area, and the whole surface was covered with a dense and luxuriant growth of bushes, vines, and trees. The ridges had certainly been at one time much higher, and the ditches much deeper. This overlooked the well-known Petite Osage plains on the west, celebrated for their beauty and fertility.
Flint arrow and spear points are found throughout Missouri. In the timbered districts they seem to be more abundant than elsewhere. They

<<<Page: 358>>>

are eenerally made of flint found in the neighborhood. In Western Missouri we find them of black and of flesh-colored flint, the latter obtained froin coal-measure rocks; in Central and Southern Missouri they are chiefly of white chert from the magnesian limestone series. In Madison County I have found them of porphyry. Hatchets are rarely found, but are almost invariably of syenite—a few have been found made of red hematite. Disks or shallow mortars are generally made of syenite.
On the Moreau, in Cole County, I found a number of flint implements of various sizes and workmanship, some quite regularly and carefully made, others from which but few chips had been taken, thus showing the various stages of workmanship. It is very probable that this was a place where the natives resorted to make their arrow-heads, as the proper flint is abundant in the neighborhood. At another place in Morgan County I also obtained flint implements in all stages of workmanship.
Some years ago Mr. B. B. Holland, of Bear Creek, Montgomery County, plowed up a deposit of flint implements all set on their edges and arranged in a small circle, and buried about a foot beneath the surface of the ground. They were about 2 inches long, with sharp edges and a heart-shaped point.
An article of the disk variety from Morgan County deserves mention. It is nearly cubical, being about 2 inches square, with corners and edges rounded off, and a shallow depression on one side, from which cireumstance it is probable that it was used for pounding medicine. It is of hard syenite and smoothly polished.
Stone clubs are sometimes found. I have seen one from Henry County, of red quartzite, that would weigh 8 to 10 pounds.
Flint implements are often found on hill slopes where the bluff formation is deep, but I cannot certainly say that I have found them in the bluff, though some observers positively report having found them in an undisturbed position in the bluff.
Some of us have seen the sculptured foot-print in possession of Mr. Mepham, of Saint Louis. It is cut in magnesian limestone from De Soto, Jefferson County. There is another in possession of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington City, presented by Mr. John P. Jones, of Keytesville, Mo., who obtained it from Gasconade County.
Another and more remarkable one is noticed by H. R. Schoolcraft, in Travels in Missouri in 1821. In chapter viii he speaks of seeing in possession of Mr. Rappe, at Harmony, Ind., a stone with seulptured impressions of two human feet. This stone had been obtained from Saint Louis by Mr. Rappe and carried thence to Harmony. Schooleraft thought the tracks represented those of a man in an erect position, with the left foot a little advanced and the heels drawn in. The distance between the heels measured 64 inches, and between the extremities of the toes 134, the toes being spread and the foot flattened. From this circumstance

<<<Page: 359>>>

Mr. Schooleraft thought they might belong to a race anterior to the present Indians, or to a race unacquainted with the method of tanning skins. The outlines of the muscles of the feet were represented with ereat accuracy, hence Mr. Schoolcraft seemed to incline to the belief that they were impressions. The length of each foot was 104 inches, the breadth across the toes at right angles to the former line 4 inches, and the greatest spread of toes 44 inches, diminishing to 24 inches at the heel. Directly in front of the prints and approaching within a few inches of the left foot is a well impressed and deep mark, having some resemblance to a scroll, whose greatest length is 2 feet 7 inches and greatest breadth 124 inches. Mr. Schoolcraft addressed a letter to the Hon. Thomas H. Benton in regard to the foot-marks and received an answer, which I copy, as follows:
“WASHINGTON City, April 29, 1822.
‘Sir: Yours of the 27th was received yesterday. The prints of the human feet which you mention I have seen hundreds of times. They were on the uncovered limestone rock in front of the town of Saint Louis. The prints were seen when the country was first settled, and had the same appearance then as now. No tradition can tell anything about them. They look as old as the rock. They have the same fine polish which the attrition of the sand and water have made upon the rest of the rock which is exposed to their action. I have examined them often with great attention. They are not handsome, but exquisitely natural, both in the form and position—spread-toed, and were of course anterior to the use of narrow shoes. I do not think them ‘impressions,’ but the work of hands, and refer their existence to the age of the mounds upon the American bottom and above the town of Saint Louis. My reasons for this opinion are: 1, the hardness of the rock; 2, the want of tracks leading to and from them; 3, the difliculty of supposing a change so instantaneous and apropos as must have taken place in the formation of the rock, if impressed when soft enough to receive such deep and distinct tracks. Opposed to this opinion are: 1, the exquisiteness of the workmanship; 2, the difficulty of working in such hard material without steel or iron.
“A block 6 or 8 feet long and 3 or 4 feet wide, containing the prints, was cut out by Mr. John Jones, in Saint Louis, and sold to Mr. Rappe, of Indiana, and under his orders removed to his establishment called Harmony, on the left bank of the Wabash.
“ Very respectfully, yours, “THOS. H. BENTON.
“H. RK. SCHOOLCRAFT, Esq.”
A letter from Prof. E. T, Cox, of Indiana, informs me that he remembers the stone very well; that it is still at New Harmony; it is 6 by 4 feet superficially and 8 inches thick, and rich in fossils of the Saint Louis group of the Sub-carboniferous. Professor Cox is of the opinion

<<<Page: 360>>>

that the foot-prints were carved, and Dr. D. D. Owen was of the same opinion.
Mantell, in the first edition of his Wonders of Geology, vol. i, p. 66, copies the account and figure from Schoolcraft, but he falls into the erroneous opinion that they were actual impressions of feet.
By Turron THOMPSON, of Muscatine, Iowa. .
Along the blufts of the Mississippi River, near Muscatine, Iowa, for a distance of 10 miles, is a series of ‘mounds and earthworks. Opposite this point, in Hlinois, is a similar series of mounds running down the river for a distance of 20 miles. The mounds onthe Iowa side are all in Muscatine County; those opposite are in Rock Island County, Illinois.
The mounds are now surrounded by a growth of young timber, principally oak, which shows no evidence of an older growth before it. The localities were no doubt prairie lands before, or when the mounds were constructed. The land is all tillable, except the more precipitous bluffs. The river runs east and west at this place, and the mounds are generally upon the most commanding positions. There are, however, some remains of mounds upon a large island known as Muscatine Island. They have been very much reduced by cultivation. The river below Muscatine formerly followed the Iowa bluffs in the shape of an elbow for a distance of 20 miles; but at some remote period it cut a new channel across this elbow, making, as it were, an island, low, flat, and sandy, about 20 miles long by 8 miles wide. The old channel along the bluff remains deep and full of water. It is around these bluffs, which formerly bordered the river, and upon this island that the mounds are situated. Those on the island are on the river side overlooking the river, and were evidently built after the river changed to its present course, which may serve as a clue to the age of the mounds. In some places gullies have washed back into and past the mounds, and, upon Muscatine Island, the river has encroached so far as to frequently wash out pieces of pottery, &c. The mounds are in size from 3 feet to 30 feet in diameter and 6 inches to 5 feet in height. They are generally in groups and covered with timber. Nine out of ten are round, the others resembling remains of earthworks from 6 to 20 feet im length and 5 feet wide, placed end to end, with a gap of 5 feet between. There are quite a number of them in group No. 1. They are composed of the same material as the surrounding surface, which is clay and sand on the bluffs, and on the island sand and gravel. In exploring the mounds we sometimes find in the center some evidence of fire, bits of charcoal, &e. In none of those that I have thus far examined is there evidence of layers of other earth than that of which the mounds are composed. There is

<<<Page: 361>>>

4 tee
ving in
Muscatine Co., Iowa,
and Rock Island Co., Til.
Sho MOUNDS
rey v tee, ‘
FA NNIAG, ve \ BVOWOBORSCY cy TCU AR Og
VE eee
wm ONN
me sera® Mile wren . RV acess COA AE SG SAS OSS Rabat UO pte Iie
PEO SUINEETAY WG Sy pen.
VIZAWR ICU) PA lte>
veces Wes 3
SNES. Cher ESN se rah Cine
NUL ie ses
a Mees
we “ MEP ENTANIZ IN hwy
SS i
cg TS Cand Bae Vt LY Ae
Rwy do? Wy x fans
SN teeny Ste,
“ffi hes “4, el 1 Fq~ ¢ NBN itis 00 *
Ponailty “iN
>» Timber Gs = if mate in
a q I
abounds
eenn’
Pease
vy 4 tayilh (MTN ee,
dine Nilesen lee
"hey
WLANs. RW ‘ * “i. qd POO), Wy ine Pi Le THRANW AHERN PLANTA
2 sito, stills 2% A CALIDA C/T

<<<Page: 362>>>

no evidence of ditches or excavations of any kind near the mounds whence the earth might have been obtained, but as it is similar to that in the vicinity it must have been scraped up from the surface near the mounds, but so taken as to leave no traces at this late day of any depression or hollow.
In group No. 1 nothing was found. I opened ten mounds in a group of twenty; went from 2 to 3 feet below the surrounding surface; opened both by trench and by leveling the entire mound. I found, once in a while, a bit of charcoal or a fragment of common river mussel very much decayed. In No. 2 I found one skeleton almost decayed, and some small pieces of broken pottery. The body was evidently buried in a reclining position, as we found by following with our tools the remains of bones through the clay. Near No. 3 there have been several mounds opened. I was not able to be present and do not know the position of the mounds, &c., only that they are situated on the bluffs overlooking what is known as “ Whiskey Hollow.” A creek runs through this hollow into Muscatine Slough, which surrounds the island of the same name. Only one of the mounds opened here yielded anything—a skeleton so much decayed that it was impossible to tell position, &c., and underneath the head of the skeleton a stone ax, very much in shape like others discovered in this locality. But we had never before heard of an ax being found in a mound in this region. The ax weighed 24$ pounds.
No. 4, on the island, is so leveled that the shape of the mounds cannot be ascertained. Pottery abounds all over the surface, also very small triangular arrow-points. The ground is also strewn with flint chippings, and in no instance are the points found so large nor of the same shape as the specimens from higher ground. The points are all alike and have no variation of design. This, with the softness and rudeness of their pottery and their low position on the island, leads one to believe that they were of a more recent period, and their constructors somewhat degenerated from the Mound Builder of the overlooking blufts.
No. 5 is in Illinois. In this group, so far, only one mound yielded anything. The mound in question is one of a group of five, all large mounds, upon a prominent bluff, situated at the extreme upper end of the series. They are not arranged with any noticeable regard to position. We went to work on the smallest (two had been carelessly opened by some unknown party before). We deviated from the usual manner of opening by a trench (as in that way we would have missed the contents), and proceeded to reduce the mound to a level with the surrounding surface. At a distance of 25 feet from the center, a little below the natural level, we discovered the remains of three bodies. With great care, we were enabled to see their position, &e., and to obtain parts of the skull and of the large bones of the legs and arms. By the head of the center one was deposited an earthen pot holding about two quarts, which had been crushed by the weight of earth. The pot was empty,

<<<Page: 363>>>

but immediately surrounding it we found some half dozen arrow-points of curious construction, also a slate pipe. Three of the arrow-points are different in shape or style from any in my collection of about a thousand. This is the first instance in this region of flint implements being found with remains in mounds.
The few fragments that occurred in No. 2 are in my possession; the ax found in No. 3 is in the possession of Mr. Leverch, of this city (Muscatine). The pipe, arrow-points, and skull found in No. 5 are in the Academy of Science in this city. Nearly all the articles of value found in this region are picked up on the surface, or found in excavating for buildings, tilling, &c. Young timber is growing on nearly all the mounds. The oldest I have seen shows one hundred and twenty years of annual growth. The mounds upon Muscatine Island have been washed out within the last seven years by tillage and the washing of the river. The dead are found in mounds. No plan whatever seems to have been followed in their burial. They are scattered among the mounds as if by chance, sometimes found in one large mound, while the next will be destitute of all traces of burial, while a little mound off to one side, apparently but half completed, will contain remains. I have made the utmost effort to discover a law in the shape of the mound and its situation in reference to other mounds, whether overlooking the valleys or situated back from the edge, whether surrounded or on the outskirts, but am as far from any decision in the matter as in the beginning. I do not believe that they were all used for burial places; since the dead must have been buried in the midst of the village. All those of which I have knowledge were lying stretched out. In No. 5 the body was lying on the right side with the face to the west. Although, generally, it is almost impossible to determine the position of real Mound-builders’ remains—as they are generally so disintegrated—I have frequently found the remains of the modern Indian in mounds near the surface buried in a sitting position. In Nos. 2 and 5 the bodies had the head tothe north. In No. 5 they were lying on the right side with the face to the west. I think they are always found with the head to the north in this locality.’ They were simply buried in the earth, although in No. 2 we thought we discovered an arch-like crust over the remains, as if some pasty substance had been spread above the body and allowed to dry. They are generally on a level with or a little below the present natural surface.
Nests or pockets of arrow-points, &c., are said to have been found in Illinois opposite the city of Museatine. I have been told by farmers who first tilled the land opposite that “they sometimes plowed up from a peck to a half bushel of arrow-points, &c.” Sometimes these would be nearly all perfect, at other times but partly completed. This occurred in éarly times when the country was new. They say they have never plowed up stone implements, such as axes, &c., under the same cireumstances. The refuse here consists of thousands of flint ¢hippings and

<<<Page: 364>>>

flakes, also broken triangular arrow-points, all of white flint. They are scattered over a space of about five acres; a great deal of pottery also is lying around which is fast being dissolved by the action of rain, &c. There is no locality near here where this flint could be obtained in such quantities as must have been worked up at this point.
ANTIQUITIES OF ROCK ISUAND COUNTY, ILLINOIS. By AbDoLPH TOELLNER, of Moline, Til.
Rock Island County is especially rich in aboriginal remains. In the vicinity of Moline I have discovered about 80 mounds, single and in groups. I have also found shell-heaps several miles in length, three pits dug in the clay, workshops for preparing spear and arrow heads, old cemeteries, together with stone and copper implements in abundance. The mounds are
found generally il Hail MW, ulliZge tical WOME Ne a tis i dlls ns Migs ie “i, i on the banks of wie IY % sic gee =
MW vie \Y Wiican “Mili SY ie z cS 7 2 su TNS wee:
rivers and their S$: tributaries, or on 23 0-8 +4).
Zs goo
an 7 zp RO Aw
viens bia ae ; rm na Saye “ayy mye
Ww ny
islands, seldomin %j RT OHIANNS/) AN Ca un
the interior. On Campbell Island, Hampton Township, is a cemetery containing 200 or 300 graves. I have seen 10 mounds in Hampton, on Dr. Ottman’s farm (ig. 1); 2 on Tohead Island (Fig. 2); 4 at Valley City, in Scott County; 7 on Hubbard’s _ farm, six miles east of ( ¢ Moline; 28 at Deere’s \S farm, one mile east of Moline, as well as many Shell-heaps (Figure 4); 40 near Black Hawk Tower, Milan; 1 large one five miles east of Moline, on Deere’s land; 4on Davenport’s land, within the limits of Moline. Without exception, the mounds occupy the most beautiful prospects in the country. The graves occur indiscriminately on high and low ground.
One large mound, five miles east of Moline, on a bluff, was opened, and disclosed the following structure: (1) 3 feet of soil; (2) 22 inches of wood-ashes, mingled here and there with fragments of burnt bones; (5) 12 to 14 inches of unburnt bones and charcoal. This stratum has avery
Fia. 1.
Pohead4 Teleene ee a one
pees
So opet eee <“30 f= cL
SftRigh
Fig. 2.

<<<Page: 365>>>

unctuous appearance. The skeletons of four Indians were found 2 feet below the top of the mound (Fig. 3).
In the vicinity, blocks of limestone or sandstone furnished the material for the sculptured ~, Slabs found in the mound.
About one-half of the mounds with which I am acquainted have been explored. I myself have found in thirty mounds two entire skeletons, five more or less decayed, fragments of bones, a part of a broken “ise apes -heads, : lead ore, and shells. =e <<S==— In seven mounds I found all the bodies
gk buried with the knees drawn up to the chin,
and laid on their right side, with the head to
the west and face to the south, excepting
one that had the face directed to the north.
Fig. 3. The bodies were two feet below the surface.
In two eases the lower jaws were lying near the feet, while another had the bones of his feet between his teeth.
ShellHERDS near — banks of pe aissiepippl ang ube Hoek River are
Iii HNN ZN
Wagon Road
Way sill hig wb ved \\ , Wy vines NMR Wy, NI LMU as ijbiw Mi) i sli si wl, NW igs US Maly sil Wi Mi iN WD ileal ili A Wa A ld Mies wri RENT INS WASIG/N Wiggs
QM, on, ows
ashi, ill a wre at w¥W% we MANNING FE <S We
Tce RS
NS 5825 0 al D DP 6 Vy
SHG 2% = > Fade ns
is powniuyZF 22 we “ny iit eee oS pry
ie co in 28
on ae) Hon. John Deere’s Farm I ,. ie TN Sn 1 milo E. of Moline, Tm SPAN
Fie. 4. very plentiful, and extend for miles without interruption. They are com-
monly located in the neighborhood of mounds. They are composed of recent shells and contain few implements.

<<<Page: 366>>>

Mounds near Black Hawk Tower, at Milan, are scattered along for the distance of a mile. They are about 3 feet high, from 30 to 60 feet in diameter, and, for the most part, are undisturbed. They are all burial mounds, and follow no particular arrangement, lying in rows on a bluff 130 feet above Rock River. Black Hawk Tower is an elevated spot near the falls of Rock River, on the southeast corner of Rock Island Bluffs. The view from this point extends 8 or 10 miles up Rock River, and 6 or 8 miles northward to the Mississippi. Black Hawk is said to have used this site in the war as a lookout for his enemies.
The following is a list of mounds on the land of the Hon. John Deere, one mile east of Moline (Fig. 4):
No. Size. Shape. Height. | Remarks. Feet Feet. In Lb entone Pascoe Circular. .--3 Digeeeieec Qheweeics| Shae dO} sascse2 6 Seeeee= se 60x18 |"Oblonge:----Ib 9 {ees SOe ee Circular. ---.. 3 Dug; found a stone ornament. Bisassees 36 x 15 -| Oblong....-.1 Oesesi cas. SOR Ss Circular. --.. 4 Dug; found nothing. ste cpere lease eee doen sss OS <5) j Siem sates PA ee eeeol sans Gh Snoeane 1b 8} asta kaa pt ee eee dorascee ss ie as) MODs ass4i2 Dee etal(oare COW ae =< 1 ers ortore’s Olessese esas Oye os-5-6 it feces ses OA scene lade Cho eeiees 2 ESI ss ei 36 x 18 .| Oblong.---.. 276 WA Nase 3) cceon Circulars. -2 6 | Dug; found a few decayed bones. Diss Seen 147 x15-| Rectangular.| 1 6 AGES. 255% SOR S<° Circular... 2 17 Ae Bee DOR Sesialliaets GOvsee ee =e 2 Dug; found bones, lead ore, arrowhead, and stone image. 1 oe eee BWsacecs|lenae doprssaces 2 6 | Dug; found bones and stone images, Osea: ARS pesolasee CO) ssa 2 Owe sisson DAS coos! soe, domes cee 16 a raeclacee SOR sa ceiliaeei dows s4s=¢ 2 6 Be se lacels a Aer dOgss 2.52 2 One saees 186 x 15 -| Rectangular iL Chys22 cae Itekoy 3:4 1B yelle neo CONeoeses iO eoeeeesaes (i) se 15 all Sooo) Saasace tt QO onal aers 40 x 16 .| Oblong..---. IPTG: Pl on eee 27......| Circular....-| 2 6 | Explored; no remains. TS SAO 69 x 15 .| Rectangular. 1 6 | Found skeleton. PA) se hee ee 60 x 18 Awe Boar eG Ue eee 40x15. “Oblong Seiceete 6 Seen e.<c:0ic SO Exe OMe lee se ON reser 3 Skeleton and pottery found. By Ae eee See Circulars es 1 | Found a few bones. Oot ch sises 60x 15-| Rectangular-| 1 6
P. S.—The mounds are made of limestone slabs from the river shore. In Nos. 18, 21, and 23 the rocks were 9 inches below the surface. The limestone neous to the Hamilton Group of the Devonian age.

<<<Page: 367>>>

By ArtTaur OEHLER, of Highland, Ill.
I beg leave briefly to call attention to some lately-discovered Indian graves in the southeastern part of Madison County, Illinois. They are situated in the southeast corner of the southwest quarter of section 10, township 3 north, range 5 west of the third principal meridian, on the present property of Mr. John F. Rodt, about 4 miles southeast of the town of Highland.
There are two of them, of the same shape and size, lying in exactly the same direction. The first discovered lies about 400 feet south of the northern and about 500 feet east of the western boundary of the abovedescribed parcel of land. Sugar Creek, which at that point makes a bend westward toward the graves, is due east about 400 feet distant, while to the south itis farther away. About two and a halfyears ago the proprietor plowed up several limestone rocks and fragments of slabs of different sizes, mostly small ones. This excited his curiosity, and as the same thing happened every time he plowed, last spring he got a hoe and shovel and went to investigating; but, having no idea of what was coming, did it in such a manner as to entirely unfit the contents for any further careful examination. He then called the attention of my friend, Mr. A. F. Bandelier, to it, who, as near as could be learned from the circumstances, reports: “That the grave contained the complete skeletons of two persons, one superposed upon the other.”
Mr. B. then exacted from the proprietor the promise that if any more graves were found he should immediately be notified, they, meanwhile, not being disturbed. About May 20, Mr. Bandelier received word that another had been discovered and awaited his further pleasure. We then went there and carefully investigated the place, an account of which is given below. It is situated about 350 feet due west of No. 1, on the top of a hill that slopes southward toward Sugar Creek, which is about one-fourth of a mile due south. It has the shape of a rectangle, 2 feet 3 inches by 3 feet, the longer side lying north-northeast by southsouthwest. It is made of limestone slabs, of which two are at the bottom, two on each longer side, two on top as a lid, and one on each shorter side. These slabs show no signs of incisions or workmanship whatever, but are simply limestone slabs. The grave is about a foot below the surface. There were five skulls and the skeletons of five adult persons. There was no trace of charring or fire about the remains, which had evidently been placed in the grave after the flesh had by some process or other become decomposed. The skeletons show that the people were of rather small stature. The skulls lay in a semi-circle along the southeastern longer side. All the other bones lay transversely to the skulls, and were very closely packed. Some of them were so far decayed as to crumble while being handled. There were no arms or

<<<Page: 368>>>

ornaments found in the mound except a little burnt, partially glazed, clay object, having the shape of a cylinder, about 2 inches long and 4 inch in diameter, one small flint chip, and several fragments of limestone slabs. Three feet to the east of the grave is an oak stump, measuring 2 feet in diameter, from which several roots, as thick as a finger, penetrated the fissures of the slabs and worked their way between the bones. One of the skulls was examined by Dr. George J. Engelmann, of Saint Louis, Mo. From this he judges that they are of great age, and that they appear as normal Indian skulls, with the exception that the superciliary ridges show great development. A rather striking circumstance is that on all the jaw bones seen, the two front lower teeth are missing, as if artificially knocked out. On the skull examined as above, the left parietal appears to show a rather prominent protuberance, while on the right is a corresponding flattening. Whether this is artificial or natural, cannot for the present be decided. As far as we know, this mode of burial is more or less different from those of other Indian tribes at present known. A great many flint chips and arrowheads of different shapes and sizes are found in the neighborhood of these graves, also a short distance southward along the creek, which fact, most probably, indicates a battle-ground, possibly a settlement.
By BRAINERD MITCHELL, of Pearl Depot, Ill.
The mounds are generally on bluffs along the west side of the Illinois River, with here and there one in the valleys. There are hundreds of them between the mouth of the river and Pearl Depot, the bluffs being lined with them, separated in some instances only a few feet apart. Those back from the bluffs are isolated, while those along the edges follow the breaks and stand on the highest ground. They are round or oval, and vary from 6 feet in diameter to 20 or 30, and are from 2 to 8 feet high. The isolated mounds back from the river are composed of a light-colored clay, almost white, directly over the remains; on the top of this is a stratum of yellow clay and soil. Those along the bluff have first a layer of lime rock, then a layer of clay and soil; the rocks are arranged in a row set on edge around the body, and a covering of rocks placed over this. Those explored furnish stone implements, shell beads, pottery, bone needles, and copper implements.
The dead found in graves were evidently stretched out, while those interred in mounds were buried doubled up or in a sitting posture. In one cemetery the dead were found inclosed in rocks very carefully set on edge and covered over. In one spot thirteen graves were arranged in the form of a crescent on a slope facing south. The site has been plowed over for fifteen or twenty years, and washed down so that the

<<<Page: 369>>>

plow turned up the rocks. In some places fire seems to have been used, as we find only charred pieces of bones and burnt rocks with fragments of pottery.
One mound explored contained the remains of 25 or 30 persons. Most of the bones were charred or burnt to ashes. One had been buried in a sitting posture, the rest lay indiscriminately. They had been inclosed by placing rocks on edge around them and two in the middle for the flat rocks that formed the cover to rest upon. Pieces of pottery were found on the top of the rocks that formed the cover, which had fallen in and rested on the bones.
MOUNDS IN THE SPOON RIVER VALLEY, ILLINOIS. By W. H. Apams, of Elmore, Ill.
The most important group of mounds is situated on the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 9, township 11 north of the base line, range 5 east of the fourth principal meridian. They are nine in number, commencing at a point 126 feet west of the southeast corner of the first-mentioned tract of land; thence following the brow of the ridge in a northeast course to a point on the east side of said 40-acre tract, 564 feet north of the southeast corner. The ridge is composed of the usual yeHow clay of which the bluffs of Spoon River are composed. For convenience we have numbered the mounds, commencing at the south. The east and west line crosses the north side of No. 1. The distances here given are from center to center. From No. 1 to No. 2 is 50 feet, from No. 2 to No. 3 is 46 feet, from No. 3 to No.4 is 67 feet, from No. 4 to No.5 is 67 feet, from No. 5 to No. 6 is 225 feet, from No. 6 to No. 7 is 72 feet; No. 7 is northwest of No. 6; from No. 6 to No. 8 is 67 feet, from No. 8 to No. 9 is 55 feet. Opened No. 3 at a depth of 2 feet 6 inches; found a flat stone in an upright position; a few inches below this found a thin layer of ashes with small fragments of charcoal. Ata depth of 5 feet 4 inches found human bones, very much decayed, the articulations all wasted away. Found one skull to the east and two to the south; all the bones occupied a space less than 3 feet in diameter. The bones were very fragile; the teeth in a good state of preservation; the grinding surface very smooth and even. ,The base diameter of this mound is 55 feet; the apparent height above the surrounding surface 3 feet. Opened No. 4 with about the same result as No. 3, except the flat stone. In company with W. Lewis opened No. 7; found large quantities of ashes at a depth of 34 feet and one or two small fragments of charcoal. At a depth of 5 feet 3 inches found human bones, which fell to pieces on exposure to the air. No. 6 was opened by S. Swenny, George Lappan, and George Miller. At a depth of 3 feet they found a layer of flat stones nicely fitted together, having a diameter of 6 feet; they were unable to determine whether any one had been buried in this mound.

<<<Page: 370>>>

This group of mounds, distant from Spoon River about one-third of a mile, is on land owned by Samuel 8S. Seward. On the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter section 14, township 11 north, range 4 east of fourth principal meridian, is a tumulus, which we shall designate as the Sam. Parker Mound. ‘This mound is 25 rods south of the north line and 15 rods east of the west lines of said tract and 80 rods north of Spoon River, which is 125 feet wide at this place. It has a base diameter of 90 feet, and an apparent height of three feet above the surrounding surface. I opened this mound in company with W. J. Morris. At the surface we found a few small fragments of pottery; at a depth of 2 feet some ashes; 1 foot below this a layer of ashes 14 inches thick; below the ashes a compact layer of clay; below the layer of clay a thin layer of what I supposed to be red ochre; below this was a layer of dark yellow clay about 12 inches thick; below the clay a laver of the red material about 4 to 1 inch in thickness and 18 or 20 inches in diameter. In this red material we found two spear points, one 7 inches in length and one 5 inches, very thin, the larger notched at the butt, the smaller not notched; five arrow-points of dark flint or hornstone notched at the base or heel, very smooth, as if polished, 55 inches in length; twenty-two arrowpoints of the leaf pattern, of white jasper or chert, from 2? to 3% inches in length; one copper needle or awl 3 inches in length, rounded at the point, the remainder of the blade being what the harness-makers term diamond bladed; the spear and light-colored points have every appearance of being new. Mr. Julius Johnson, who formerly owned the land on which this mound is situated, found a gorget or breast-plate (now the property of the writer) 6 inches in length, 2 inches in width in the middle, and 1% inches wide at each end, with two small holes through it about 2 inches from each end, and 2 inch in thickness, and composed of a material resembling greenstone. The pottery found is of superior quality. Near the south line of section 11, township and range aforesaid, is a low mound on land owned by a Mr. Mackey. This we thoroughly examined to the depth of the original surface soil, and found a small fragment of a stone implement, highly polished on one side, a small piece of charcoal, and some ashes. On section 10 of this township, at the foot of a high bluff facing the south, occurs what is designated by archeologists as a kitchen-midden. On the south side of the tumulus is a bayou; this was the former channel of a creek, now some 40 rods to the east. In the material composing this tumulus we found arrow-points; one or two skinning-stones; fragments of pottery, with some attempts at ornamentation. One piece had the appearance of having been marked below the rim when in a plastic state with an implement similar to the point of a three-cornered file; the tool with which the marking was done was moved in an upward direetion. No evidence of glazing appeared on any of the fragments. One small implement of jasper, about 24 inches in length by } inch in thielkness, was discovered, supposed to be a drill, and a disk of syenite 1}
S. Mis. 5424

<<<Page: 371>>>

inches in diameter by about 1 inch in thickness, similar to No. 209 deseribed by C. C. Abbott in the Stone Age in New Jersey. We found two or three fragments of the antlers of a deer; also the bones of a deer. These were all split except a small part next to and including the articulation; and a large quantity of fresh-water unios, now common to Spoon River. These were very fragile and offered but little resistance to the spade. In the center of the find was a layer of ashes 2 or more inches in thickness, at a depth of 15 inches from the top of the mound; below the ashes there was a layer of brick-dust 2 inches in thickness; below this the soil had no appearance of having been disturbed. Only part of these tumuli were examined. I am somewhat inclined to believe that it would be profitable to make a more extensive investigation. Mrs. A. J. Reed, who has resided near this place for the past twenty-four years, says her children have found many Indian relies in this immediate vicinity. The most extensive kitchen-middens that we have met with are on the land owned by W. J. Ghross, to wit, the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter section 6, township 11 north, range 5 east of the fourth principal meridian, and a small strip of land between this and Walnut Creek on the east. The kitchen refuse is scattered over three or four acres of land at various depths, from a few inches to 3 feet. The creek washes the land on the east side, with Spoon River 40 rods distant on the south. In these heaps are great quantities of shells, now common to the creek and river, of one of which I have never seen a living specimen. The shells of helix are very plentiful; one variety marked with bright red or scarlet spots. This was then the most abundant species, but is now rather rare. Besides these are found antlers and bones of deer, shields—or rather fragments of them—of the turtle, bones of small animals, &e:, and of implements, stone axes, hammers, whetstones, pestles, skinning-knives of flint, fragments of what Mr. Abbott denominates as gorgets, arrow-points, spear-points, &e. The writer found a carnelian pebble in one of those heaps; also a peculiar implement, composed of an unknown material which has some characteristics of a low form of limestone.
MOUNDS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY, INDIANA. By Epa@ar R. Quick, of Brookville, Ind.
In Franklin County, Indiana, are remains of ancient mounds and earthworks, and other indications of former occupation of this locality, consisting of stone implements of various kinds. The most noticeable group of mounds is on the land of H. Bruns, one mile and a half south of Brookville. Other mounds are scattered singly or in pairs all over the county, wherever a suitable place seems to offer.

<<<Page: 372>>>

The only earthwork (enclosure) which I know of in the county is situated three miles north of Brookville, on a hill nearly 550 feet high, which juts out against the west bank of the east fork of the White Water River, immediately beside the bridge at that place.
The mounds of this county are nearly all situated on prominent points or headlands overlooking the valley below. The site does not seem to have been selected with reference to convenience of water or ease of access. The land in most cases is in the same condition as found by the present inhabitants, except that a part is used as pasture and is cleared to some extent. I know of but one case of the grouping of mounds which has been before referred to. This group is situated on a terrace about one mile and a half south of Brookville. This terrace is about 90 feet above the river, and 250 feet below the tops of the hills and level of the adjacent country. It contains about 250 acres of land, most of which is cleared and under cultivation. The part which is occupied by mounds is at present covered by a heavy growth of sugar trees (Acer saccharinum). The mounds are all low, none being more than 4 feet high by 40 feet across. Approaching along the brow of the terrace from the west, we first come to a pair of low mounds almost on the edge of the terrace. They are situated so near each other that their bases almost blend together, one a little smaller than the other. Going on directly east about 200 yards, we find another pair about 50 yards from the edge of the terrace. These two are almost exactly like the first in relative size and position. About 40 yards north of this pair isa small heap of earth, which I am certain is of artificial origin, but being so small is hardly worthy of being called a mound. Southeast of the last pair, on the edge of the terrace, is another pair similar in every respect to the others.
Near these, and nearly north of them, is a curious circle of earth. The center is slightly below the surrounding level, while the edge is as much above. The circumference is about the same as that of the mounds. The outline of the terrace here turns to the north, and following it we find three more mounds situated singly, at intervals of 200 or 300 yards, on the brow of the terrace. Northwest of the first pair about 500 yards, in a field, is another, almost obliterated by plowing. The mounds are composed of a mixture of sandy clay and loam taken from the surrounding surface. In the single one which I have examined the material is heaped together without respect to arrangement. Slight depressions about the mounds show that the material was obtained from the surrounding surface. One mound has been explored (by digging a pit in the center) by the writer and others; all appear to have been opened, but by whom is unknown. Nothing was found but charcoal and a few charred bones. No account has ever been published, with the exceptiun of the one mentioned before. No trees grow upon them at present.

<<<Page: 373>>>

peu, 4,
oS EN ALAN 3 Ae) Sid ANY, ? ey ces is
bP. (cy) Yo. 4
i We, = NW,
3 sues se
Showing
Franklin Co., INDIANA.

<<<Page: 374>>>

The earthwork.—In describing this work I can do no better than to extract from Dr. Rufus Haymond’s Report of Franklin County, in the Geological Report of Indiana, by E. T. Cox, 1869:
“Three miles north of Brookville, and immediately west of the east fork of White Water River, upon the top of a hill nearly 350 feet high, there is a semicircular wall of earth 300 yards in length. It is built across a narrow ridge, which is formed by two deep ravines, one on the south, the other on the north, which, with the river on the east, isolate the flat on top of the hill (containing 15 or 20 acres) from the level country to the west, and was built probably to protect the inhabitants from any enemy approaching from that direction. The “wall of earth” is at all points low, being in its present condition not more than 3 feet high, but the ditch from which the material was taken is 3 feet deep, and being just outside the embankment makes it more of an obstacle to overcome when defended from the inside. The stump of a tree which had been cut on the embankment showed about two hundred rings, and there were others much larger standing near it. The hill toward the top is so steep that one can scarcely climb up without assisting himself by holding on to shrubs or some support, making this part naturally fortified. This inclosure is undoubtedly a work of defense, the building material being all:‘taken from the outside.”
The dead of prehistoric people in this locality are nearly all found in the small mounds which occupy every prominent point along the valley. We generally find in exploring a mound, near the original surface of the earth, from one to several skeletons very much decayed and not touched by fire. Above and around them are human bones charred and blackened, also charcoal, ashes, &ec., and in one case the earth was vitrified, so great had been the heat. The bodies were generally stretched out without reference to points of compass.
Quarries.—In regard to aboriginal quarries, quite a mistake has crept into our literature on this subject. A greatmany pieces of worked stone of the striped slate are found in this State and in Ohio. Archeologists say it was obtained far to the north, in the lake region. This was not always the case, if it ever was. I have seen in a field where a great many unfinished implements were found, and which to all appearances had been a “workshop,” bowlders of this same striped slate, from which large and small pieces had been flaked. Small caches of ‘ flint disks” have been found, one cache containing twelve, another eighty or ninety disks of the leaf shape.
Several localities in this county have the appearance of having been workshops, the surface being covered all over with flint chips and spalls of diorite or greenstone and slate; also unfinished pestles, axes, We.

<<<Page: 375>>>

Oo < TS
By F. JACKMAN.
The remains of the early inhabitants of this and its adjoining counties are quite numerous, and in most respects similar, though it is evident either that different races dwelt here at about the same time or that they had different modes of burial or worship, for it is my opinion that these mounds were places of burial made in accordance with their religious rites. The only traces of these lost races in this section are small circular mounds, from 25 to 40 feet in diameter, and 7 to 10 feet in height, except one set of earthworks, which seem to have been some kind of fortification or works of defense. They are located about two miles
a iy, sie ile lle ly, south of Rushville, near the Rushville
Ss youn Mle
wer eae Sy, and Moscow pike, on what is well Re ant wa iy NN py < S ae" as ‘~~ known as the Hilligos farm. The Fate ae brn Se A Peed Ru as we nniSs B surrounding country is rough oe af es = wrt, we S MS broken for miles around, but this i
the highest point. A small straint fed by a spring runs on the south ' side of them, and Flat Rock River Fig. 1. is halfa mile to the east. The works are in a woods-pasture, but the adjacent land is mostly tillable. No geological changes have taken place since their erection. They consist, first, of a curved elevation (Figure 1, A, B) 300 yards long, about 5 feet hen at one end and 25 feet at the other, making the top perfectly level with the horizon, the site sloping to the south. It is perfectly level, smooth and rounded on top, and 30 feet wide. Seeond, a straight bank behind the one just mentioned 200 yards long, 5 feet high at one end, and 25 feet at the other. In the middle of this bank is a circular mane 80 feet in diameter and 5 feet high (above the top of the bank). Extending from the mound, between the two grades, is a semicircular plain on aleve] with the base of the straight ridge, and extending towards the larger semicircle 50 yards. The intermediate space is a gully 60 yards wide, sloping to the south. The south half of the larger semicircle I think to be a natural elevation smoothed down. The others are undoubtedly artificial.. The spaces between A and C and B and D are open, but would be very easily guarded. The country immediately south and west is very hilly and broken for about two miles. The works are mostly covered with large ash, poplar, and beech trees, and have never been explored.
Most of the mounds in the immediate vicinity of Milroy I have explored. One group, which I have not opened, is on the farm of Thomas Meek, four miles southeast of Milroy. It consists of one large mound 30 feet in diameter, 6 feet high, surrounded by five smaller ones 10 feet
pie My mesg LN Me Mle Slee =:
1S sey aH Fee

<<<Page: 376>>>

across and 3 feet high. The country is level, covered with trees, and exhibits no geological change.
Another is in a woods-pasture on the farm of Reuben Farlow, 35 miles southwest of Milroy. It is 40 feet in diameter and 10 feet high; not explored. ;
A third one on the farm of Finley Carter, 3 miles west of Milroy, in a woods 4 mile south of his house. It is 25 feet across, 5 feet high; not opened.
A fourth on the farm of John Overleese, Sr., 14 miles south of Milroy, on the Greensburg road, 50 yards north of a grave-yard on the same farm. It is ina cultivated field and nearly plowed down. Several arrow points and stone hatchets have been found near it; not opened.
Several others are scattered over the country, but they are so nearly alike that I will not take the time and space to describe them.
The first one of these curious remains which I opened was on Reuben Farlow’s farm, 35 miles southwest of Milroy, on a bluff 20 feet high, at the foot of which flows the stream Little Flat Rock. It was about 30 feet in diameter, and 5 feet high; round. Inside of it was what might be termed a stone wall inclosing 10 feet square of the mound. Though the wall was not of perfect masonry, yet very evidently it was built for some purpose, and was not a mere accidental arrangement of stones, of which there were a goodly number scattered through the mound. On top was common soil 18 inches deep, then clay, next clay and ashes, with coal mixed in it 2 feet thick; then a “hard pan” of clay, on top of which were three human adult skeletons and the skull of an infant, all side by side, with their feet toward the east. Around the neck of one were a number of copper and bone beads, the latter of which crumbled immediately. The copper ones were made of sheet copper rolled up, with a hole left through the center by which to string them. The land around
yas level, and there was no trace left to show where they procured the earth. A maple tree 15 inches in diameter grew on the side of it.
No. 2 was on the farm of Frank Power, 1 mile west of Milroy. It was situated on a small rise about 150 yards from a small stream. It was of precisely the same structure as No. 1, with the exception of the rock wall, Nothing was found in it, save a stone maul or hammer and some arrow points. On the “hard pan” I found, all in one place, nine flint arrow points, no two of the same color, and a plate of mica which I call a “looking glass.” It is of an oval shape, 10 inches in long diameter, and 7 inches in short diameter, and } inch in thickness. Also two slate specimens were found 44 inches by 2 inches by 2 inch. About 6 feet east of them was a copper needle or awl 6 inches long and ¢ inch thick, three-cornered at one end. Four feet north of first batch was a stone hammer—merely a bowlder shaped up to fasten a handle on. No bones found.
No. 3, on the farm of James Brown, 1 mile west of Milroy, of about the same size and structure as No. 2, surrounded with trees 2 feet in

<<<Page: 377>>>

diameter on an elevated spot 2of a mile from any stream. I found nothing in this but a small piece of galena.
No. 4, on the farm of George Brown, 3 miles southwest of Milroy, on an elevation $ mile from a large spring. ‘This is different in structure from any of the others. It is 40 feet across and 7 feet high. Directly in the center and bottom of it was a small mound 10 feet in diameter and 3 feet high, of hard red clay, so hard as to be difficult to dig with a mattock. All over this was a layer of charcoal 2 inches thick, yet so perfect that I could easily distinguish the oak, ash, and poplar wood from which it had been burned. Over this was a stratum of ashes mixed with clay, and the remainder was yellow clay. Near the bottom was a skeleton lying with its feet towards the west (all the others lay in the opposite direction). On one wrist were two copper bracelets made by rolling up sheet copper, and close by, a bear’s claw, probably an ornament. The right forearm was absent. Though this skeleton crumbled and could not be saved, the others were gotten out in a nearly perfect condition. Nothing strange about them except the peculiar bottleshaped teeth, especially the bicuspid and molars, and the fact that the larger of the two bicuspids on both upper and lower jaws came first, cont ary to the fact in the white and modern Indian races. From the appearance of the frontal bone they evidently possessed a fair degree of intelligence.
I have opened a number of other mounds, but they are all about the same, and I found nothing in them.
By Cuar es C. JONES, Jr., of Augusta, Ga.
In selecting sites for the manufacture of arrow and spear points, respect was had to the convenience of the localities. Ready access to the raw material and to food and water, and the physical advantages offered for transporting their implements, when manufactured, entered largely into the calculations of the primitive artificers and determined their particular fields of operation. That such is the fact, may be readily inferred from the presence of extensive and numerous open-air workshops along the line of the Savannah River, and especially that portion of it bordering the counties of Richmond, Columbia, Lincoln, and Elbert, in Georgia, and the counties in South Carolina lying opposite. Here milky quartz, chert, and some varieties of jasper abound. The substance from which the implements were to be fashioned was at hand, and in quantities practically inexhaustible. The Savannah River, with its numerous tributaries, was a never-failing storehouse of food. Its islands and banks, adjacent forests, and dependent swamps afforded ample cover for game of various sorts. At that early period the woods and waters were

<<<Page: 378>>>

far more replete with animal life than they are at present. Then, the Savannah was a limpid river. At regular times the shad and sturgeon ascended and descended the river in countless numbers, while all the year round, perch, bream, catfish, trout, suckers, gar-fish, sun-fish, eels, and other varieties of fishes were found initinabundance. These waters teemed also with turtles and mussels, which constituted favorite articles of food among the primitive peoples of this region. The buffalo, the black bear, the deer, the raccoon, the opossum, the wild-cat, the wolf, the mink, the otter, the beaver, and other wild animals, the turkey, the eagle, the fishhawk, owls, and various birds had here their habitat. Reptiles, some sorts of which were utilized as articles of food, crawled beneath the shadows of the forests. The mulberry, plum, haw, crab-apple, and other native fruits yielded their annual tribute, while from the nuts of the walnut and hickory trees were obtained generous supplies of oil. It was a region attractive to man in a state of nature. Here, under temperate skies, the battle for life was not severe. Intermediate between the mountain ranges of Upper Georgia and the sterile pine-barren belt to the south, running parallel with the coast, this territory was well suited for the abode of primitive peoples. Many are the indications that it was occupied for an indefinite period by a by no means insignificant aboriginal population.
That the Indians resorted in considerable numbers to the banks of the Savannah and its tributaries to hunt and fish is attested by frequent and large refuse piles, still existent at many well-selected points, by ancient burial-grounds, by occasional tumuli, and by the sites of abandoned villages upon the islands, and the high grounds adjacent to the streams.
With a view, therefore, to easy subsistence, companionship, and a ready sale at home of the manufactured articles, it must be admitted that the primitive arrow-makers were wise in here locating their most extensive open-air workshops. Surrounded by multitudes engaged in the capture of birds, animals, and fishes, the demand for stone darts
yas necessarily continuous and very general. The loss and destruction of such projectiles must have been constant and great, and hence extensive manufacture was requisite, especially during the seasons set apart for hunting and fishing, to supply the waste thus occasioned. In exchange for them food and skins were freely offered. While to the ‘women was mainly committed the fabrication of fietile ware and domestic utensils, and while nearly all the male members of the community were able, on an emergency, to chip implements of hunting and fishing, the manufacture of spear and arrow points was in large measure monopolized by certain men in each tribe. In such labor were they constantly and professedly engaged, acquiring a degree of skill born only of an accurate knowledge of material and continual practice. Day by day were these chipped barbs bartered away for food, clothing, and ornaments, and when the products of manufacture accumulated beyond

<<<Page: 379>>>

present and local demand they were stored away in the ground, in places known only to the artificers, whence they could be taken as occasion required.
It must not be forgotten that the occupation of the primitive worker in stone was deemed not only useful but honorable. For the purpose of disposing of his surplus stock he frequently made long journeys, and the knowledge of his mission and avocation secured him a welcome among, and hospitable treatment by, the tribes he visited.
While along the coast may occasionally be seen nuclei or parent blocks of jasper, transported from a distance, and there kept to be manutactured into implements, and while at some points, even in the depths of the swamp region, may still be noted traces of small open-air workshops, it appears entirely probable that the Indians inhabiting the sea-islands and the adjacent territory were largely supplied with arrow and spear points and other stone objects manuiactured in the interior and furnished by the ancient trader. Stone implements found along the coast, as a general rule, are beautiful in material and of admirable construction. This suggests and seems to justify the idea that these primitive merchantmen brought with them in their trading expeditions articles well selected, attractive to the eye, and calculated to command the highest price in the way of exchange. From the dwellers near the salt water were obtained beautiful ocean shells, large drinking cups made from conchs, beads, gorgets, shell ornaments, and shell money. This interchange of commodities was very extensive, and prevailed from a remote antiquity. By means of long rivers traversing vast regions and finally emptying into the sea were these trade relations most easily conducted. Geographically considered, the location of workshops in the region we have indicated was most judicious. The territory permeated by the Savannah was extensive. Its tributaries, capable of navigation by canoes from single trees, were neither infrequent nor indifferent. The population permanently established in this region was considerable, and when the mouth of the river was reached, the network of inlets afforded ample opportunity for communicating by water with widely separated communities. All the outer islands guarding the coasts of Georgia and Carolina, and the headlands where these primitive peoples delighted to congregate, were thus rendered accessible. In the light of discovered relics it appears impossible to prescribe limits to the peregrinations, by land and water, of these traders of the olden time, To the knowledge of the writer, within a limited area in the heart of Georgia have been found copper implements from the Lake Superior region, a bead and pipe of catlinite, not of recent manufacture, large beads made of the columns of shells native to the Gulf of Mexico, and stone implements, whose material must have been transported from great distances.
From long experience, and after frequent and careful examination, we are persuaded that we can in many instances designate with cer

<<<Page: 380>>>

tainty the locality on the Middle and Upper Savannah where many forms of arrow and spear points were manufactured, which have been found on the sea islands and in the territory of Southern Georgia adjacent to the coast. Despite the similarity in forms and style of manufacture which characterizes all objects of this class, to the practiced eye and to one critically conversant with the archeological products of particular localities there are certain marks or indicia which proclaim unmistakably the home not only of the material, but also of the artificer. It is curious and interesting to trace and recognize the indestructible proots of these trade relations among these primitive peoples, and to note with what confidence the origin of the bartered article, alien to the locality where found, may often be assigned.
These open-air workshops exist not only along the line of the Savannah River, but frequently occur on the banks of the Oconee, the Ocmulgee, the Flint, the Chattahoochee, and other southern streams. While possessing a remarkable similarity in construction and identity in material, the products of these various factories often indicate diversities which, to the eye of the careful observer, are capable of ready recognition. In the particular region to which our attention has been directed, by far the greater number of arrow and spear points were chipped from milky quartz and chert. Many rude specimens occur made of slate, and attain unusual dimensions, some of them being a foot long and four inches wide across the wings. Inthe Flint River region these points are broader, thicker, and generally made of beautiful varieties of yellow and striped jasper. Not content with utilizing the milky quartz, chert, and slate which lay at their very doors, the primitive workmen of the Savannah obtained from a distance material of varied hue and much beauty, and from it fashioned implements which, for excellency of workmanship and intrinsic attractions of surface and color, challenge admiration. Those manufactured from pellucid crystals, chalcedony, rose-colored and black quartz, and jasper of brilliant hues, are peculiarly attractive. Within the past few years not less than eight thousand well-formed arrow and spear points have been collected on both banks of the Savannah where it separates the counties of Columbia and Lincoln in Georgia from Edgefield County in South Carolina. Even now the supply is by no means exhausted. The annual plowings and constantly recurring freshets reveal each season new examples of the taste and skill of these ancient workmen. In the enumeration of the implements taken from this locality we do not include multitudes partially formed and broken, which, with quantities of chips, still mark the spots set apart for the manufacture. Sometimes we encounter a locality, many yards long and several wide, the surface of which is covered to the depth of several inches with fragments struck off during the process of manufacture, and with cores and wasters abandoned from some inherent defect in the material or broken by the workman. Some idea may thus be formed of the extent and duration of the labors of these primitive workers in stone.

<<<Page: 381>>>

We can but regard these workshops as the places whence were obtained, and that for centuries, many of the darts used not only by the peoples who resorted for supplies of fish and game to the banks of the Savannah, but by the tribes of Southern and Southeastern Georgia and Southern Carolina.
If we may credit Adair and other early observers, the Savannah River at certain times of the year must have presented an animated scene. Upon its banks, at appointed seasons, multitudes of Indians from the interior congregated. Weeks were spent in the general and active pursuit of fishes and game. AIl accumulations beyond present subsistence were smoked and dried, and in the end transported to their homes. It was during these periods, when these riparian abodes were thronged by peoples from a distance, that the primitive arrow-makers reaped their richest harvests. Some of these spear-points are 14 inches in length, while arrow-points are occasionally seen scarce half an inch long. These last are marvels of delicate flint chipping; and, attached to a very small arrow-shaft, and feathered with thistle-down, were probably blown from a tube. Swamp-canes supplied the ordinary shafts, and these were guided by feathers. Into the larger end a spike-shaped flint tip was sometimes inserted, but in most instances a slit or notch was made for the reception of the barb, which was securely fastened by means of moistened threads of deer sinews, or glue made from the soft horns of a buck, or small thongs of deer skin. Reserve arrows were earried in a quiver made of fawn or cougar skin, suspended from the left shoulder, and hanging just behind the right hip, where most convenient access could be had. Hickory, locust, white oak, ash, and red cedar are said to have been the favorite woods employed by these peoples in the manufacture of their bows. These, the customary shape of which was that of a single curve, they seasoned well, and frequently anointed with bear’s grease to render them flexible and to keep them from cracking.
Upon the use of these bows and arrows the Indians relied for subsistence and for defense. They “never lack meat,” says the Hidalgo of Elvas. “ With arrows they get abundance of deer, turkeys, conies, and other wild animals, being very skillful in killing game.” Cabegade Vaca describes the Florida Indians as being all archers, admirable in their proportions, spare, and of great activity. Their bows were as thick as a man’s arm, eleven or twelve palins in length, and capable of projecting arrows for a distance of two hundred paces, and with such precision as to miss nothing. Even the good armor of the Spaniards proved an insufficient protection against these missiles; and a buffalo or bear could not withstand the fatal effect of these well-directed shafts. But the history of the use of the bow and arrow among these primitive peoples, and their various methods of hunting and fishing, are foreign to our present purpose. We desire simply to call attention to the manifest proofs of the extensive and long-continued manufacture of arrow and spear points along the line of the Savannah, and we conclude with the

<<<Page: 382>>>

remark that almost every known type here finds rich expression. The triangular, the leaf-shaped, the shark-tooth form, the spike-shaped, the one-winged, the chisel-ended, those with bifurcated tang, the repointed, and many other forms are here seen. As we write, no less than twentythree varieties lie before us, all indicating the skill, the taste, and the fancy of the aboriginal workmen.
In his “Last Rambles amongst the Indians,” Catlin furnishes us with the following account of the manner in which arrow-points were made among the Apaches. We presume the method adopted among the Southern Indians was not dissimilar :
“Every tribe has its factory in which these arrow-heads are made, and in those only certain adepts are able or allowed to make them for the use of the tribe. Erratic bowlders of flint are collected (and sometimes brought an immense distance), and broken with a sort of sledgehammer made of a.rounded pebble of hornstone set in a twisted withe, holding the stone and forming a handle. The flint, at the imdiscriminate blows of the sledge, is broken into a hundred pieces, and such flakes selected as, from the angles of their fracture and thickness, will answer as the basis of an arrow-head.
“The master workman, seated on the ground, lays one of these flakes on the palm of his left hand, holding it firmly down with two or more fingers of the same hand, and with his right hand, between the thumb and two forefingers, places his chisel (or punch) on the point that is to be broken off, and a co-operator (a striker), sitting in front of him, with a mallet of very hard wood, strikes the chisel (or punch) on the upper end, flaking the flint off on the under side below each projecting point that is struck. The flint is then turned and chipped in the same manner from the opposite side, and so turned and chipped until the required shape and dimensions are obtained, all the fractures being made on the palm of the hand.
“Tn selecting a flake for the arrow-head a nice judgment must be used or the attempt will fail; a flake with two opposite parallel or nearly parallel planes is found, and of the thickness required for the center of the arrow point. The first chipping reaches near to the center of these planes, but without quite breaking it away, and each chipping is shorter
“and shorter until the shape and the edge of the arrow-head are formed.
“The yielding elasticity of the palm of the hand enables the chip to come off without breaking the body of the flint, which would be the case if they were broken on a hard substance. These people have no metallic instruments to work with, and the instrument (punch) which they use, I was told, was a piece of bone, but on examining it I found it to be a substance much harder, made of the tooth (incisor) of the sperm whale, which cetaceans are often stranded on the coast of the Pacific. This punch is about six or seven inches in length and one ineh in diameter, with one rounded side and two plane sides; therefore present

<<<Page: 383>>>

ing one acute and two obtuse angles, to suit the points to be broken. This operation is very curious, both the holder and the striker singing, and the strokes of the mallet being given exactly in time with the musie, with a sharp and rebounding blow, in which, the Indians tell us, is the great medicine (or mystery) of the operation.”
MICA BEDS IN ALABAMA. By WiLttiaM GESNER, of Birmingham, Jefferson County, Alabama.
In Clay County, township 19, range 7 east, section 26, in a corn-field on the east bank of a small stream flowing into Gold Mine Branch, a tributary to Talladega Creek, is a stone heap, many of the rocks from which have been used in forming a retaining wall on the lower side of a wagon-way into the Talladega and Ashland road. It is supposed by the residents here to have been formed by the followers of De Soto to mark the locality of an ancient excavation in one of the mica-bearing beds of quartz and feldspar belonging to this neighborhood, and that they obtained silver trom it, and from others of like character.
The geology of this region is Huronian, being constituted in this immediate vicinity of gneissoid and mica slate, and hornblendic rocks. This excavation is in a stratum of mica-bearing quartz and feldspar exceeding 8 feet in thickness, and, judging from the apparent area given to its entrance, the aborigines must have worked in it for a long time, and without any of our appliances for quarrying, as no marks made by metallic tools or pieves of them are found, though the place has been searched time and again for silver, and latterly for mica, affording sheets of the latter (Muscovite) squaring from 1 to 10 inches, and in one instance 11 by 14 inches.
Southeasterly from this place about 300 yards, in the same range, township, and section, occurs a smaller excavation in a similar micaceous bed, trending parallel with the former, both of them being easily traced on their outcrop for miles in a northeasterly and southeasterly direction, with a dip of 62° toward the southeast. In Talladega County, township 20, range 6, section 12, there is another one of these excavations of as large dimensions as the first mentioned, and in a similar bed of micabearing quartz and feldspar, from both of which it is evident the aborigines obtained large quantities of mica.
It is observable in these three instances that these beds were attacked by them at their outcrops on the banks of streams, where denudation had revealed them, and that the entries were made on them in the most Simple manner.

<<<Page: 384>>>

MOUNDS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI. 3oo
MOUNDS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI. From notes by JaMES HouGu, of Hamilton, Ohio.
The following description of mounds in Washington County, Mississippi, is prepared from rough memoranda of surveys made by the late
James Hough, of Hamilton, Ohio, and sent to the Smithsonian Institution by Mr. John M. Millikin.
Ye svei=9 mee 22 wii | Ser TH
Be Pi
Alii
ns Oe A / pn ee : Ii iS ah : 4 LU
Cf ob a wr tot
Fia. 1.
On page 115 of “Ancient Monuments,” by Squier and Davis,* will be found a description of a group of graded mounds situated upon the
* Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley. By E. G. Squier and E, H. Davis. (Smithsonian Contributions, vol. i.)

<<<Page: 385>>>

right bank of Walnut Bayou, in Madison Parish, Louisiana, seven miles from the Mississippi River, surveyed by Mr. Hough for Mr. McBride. Plate XX XIX pf that work gives a graphic representation of the group. The mounds described in the present sketch are situated about four miles east of the Mississippi River, nearly opposite Point Chicot, about latitude 33° 30’ N., a mile or more from Williams on the west, and two miles from the Black Bayou in the same direction, and near the road leading from William R. Campbell’s plantation, on the Mississippi River, in Washington County, Mississippi, to the Mississippi River above, at Colonel Wm. Perkins’s plantation, in Choctaw Bend, Bolivar County, Mississippi.
No. 1 is 20 yards by 15 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the base, and 8 feet high.
No. 2 is 12 yards by 9 yards on the top, 25 yards by 20 yards at the base, and 6 feet high.
No. 3 is 10 yards in base diameter and 4 feet high.
No. 4 is of the same dimensions as No. 3.
No. 5 is 10 yards by 6 yards on the top, 20 yards by 15 yards at the base, and 5 feet high.
A graded way leads from No. 2 to No. 1, and from No. 1 to No. 5, and thence to No. 6, about 5 yards wide and 3 feet high.
No. 6 is 25 yards square on the top, 110 by 130 yards at the base, and 35 feet high. There is a platform at the south end 25 yards wide and 10 feet high, and another at the north end 10 yards wide and 6 feet high. A road leads from the top to near the edge of the platform at the north end.
No. 7 is 20 yards square on the top, 50 yards square at the base, and 15 feet high. A road leads from the top to the level ground at the south end, and another from the base on the north to No. 8.
No. 8 is 20 yards square on the top, 50 yards square at the base, and 13 feet high.
No. 9 is 20 yards by 10 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the base, and 6 feet high. A road leads from the top to the bottom on the north side.
No. 10 is 25 yards by 10 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the base, and 9 feet high. A road leads from the top to the bottom on the north side.
No. 11 is 15 yards square on the top and 35 yards square at the base.
No. 12 is 40 yards by 30 yards on the top, 140 yards by 180 yards at the base, 55 feet high, with a platform at the northeast corner 25 yards wide and 10 feet high. A road leads from the top at the east end by a regular grade to the outer edge of the platform. At the west end of the top there is an excavation 25 feet by 30 feet and 6 feet deep. A road 25 feet (yards?) wide and 4 feet high leads to No. 138.
No. 13 is 25 yards by 15 yards on the top, 40 yards by 30 yards at the base, and 8 feet high.

<<<Page: 386>>>

Tn “Ancient Monuments,” page 116, is a small sketch of graded mounds encircled by an earthwork, situated in Bolivar County, Mississippi, near Williams’s Bayou, in the Choctaw Bend, one mile and a half from the Mississippi River. In Mr. Hough’s notes is a rough sketch of a similar group in the same locality, and said to be on the plantation of Mr. Will‘iam P. Perkins (Fig. 2).
NNT IO WIZ hee ; PND M Uh SEN te ME Atay NOR aa oe ony By eee WU Mire SU site: tt a, eae 4 LOS SEMIN we vy y enn ee WU yy,
. As PUMA MN ay UL ew RO MMT AN nics any
Sven WHAM ty,
SMA HAWN a Wy, Aun
Ole NUE N ALE N NI ig
\' TAN Mb inn ss x
WHEN A \S eens OAV YD Geen NEF NATO TTY + ue v
yo Note Gntcge coo \y, Fu Eee NAS pre .
WME. > le woltay, Sate selene ‘ CED EEN. INES DIO t NE a SUL NW miner.
A DAOLAU I ACSA OY, aE A COG Gea luepady TAT QANY tensa AY LY Pr OVINE only Ooaa cag <n 0Ouanne ANN ED Mey WW MTA lg
frp ange 4, ' "We ee ray Ye . i VEN eee ee ewe WZ, MANTA SUA NN MA Hee a, ME NMITENN UIE NAb,
oe WY VIZ ANN eyed . % " ww NI Rae WW ‘ NANNIES CCU MPT AU NN Eee RNw ey Le te DUOC Vy Arr} SY ‘ OOO 1
Wore . dane FON EETU ANGE Hoe Na PU HEN Nae Ort, SOE leg cette se alll
Ween a i WY
Z OP We Y
SOOO A eee ear SEE NEON IZ ZU EMUT ANE T AN NET TENS ee MMOL rte uunny oe ‘ eee MH UE MAN THe § ¢ DESO IUCN CEI) CON ROL) it SEAT A SUL CIDE NGNINAIES pi atgtslaatenere Misivalhvaniwelsieranninte ULE te, ' ee LTO ee ee lig Ns tirots AWN ANT Man aa Oe MODE SOR LESSEE SRO OO En TEGO MD Sarr narkince aureus OU Oe cee UNA tInne, Wee VOM Wheels tay ty,
1 r OIE mere we pes SOUL TINT Raya Pay Ce spl “ POND OE ICR Oe Sf (
Ly a PMNS COP VO WN Vee se met tetenn cbt eu tes a Oy /4 sue 7K
SEF NN May Uberti,
LAIN) UCR AY OICSING ET ACOA ORCA "Ut s yyee
eee ee Pr er rT
SMR WNI OMI part lee aye
ot . whee COO SOUE Samra RC CPI Pa Sore Cisies’, tae P “ Hoe We Whee, ether, tM mee Mew
DOSING UCI NIOCICE SORIA MIC LIRICA TE A 25 OA wee
WE bat Me aiteg DRA a La U A TAL ready
Nyala bipives WV SUTIN MLVACOOKYZO ANP onc) . ete NSS wee 1 Hes NAINA EONS a rere II th te a D YOSUR TU GaN DOTA ADO OULU se Uta ‘ . 1 SOO 17 SANA 1G IM Nahe tee Meee . UMOMCOET TOUTE ay Deo | oe POOF oe HEMET Meg ‘e OU Math
Ais Vitae tin. 5 tage ane
Fig. 2.
No. 1 is 25 yards square at the top and 50 yards square at the base, with a graded way reaching from the top to the bottom.
No. 2 is 20 yards square at the top, 45 yards at the base, 15 feet high, with a road leading from the top to the base.
Nos. 3 and 4 are circular at the base, with a diameter of 10 yards, each 5 feet high.
The circular earth wall surrounding the group is 250 yards in diameter and 3 feet high.
No. 5 is a circular mound on P. Williamson’s plantation 20 yards in diameter and 6 feet high.
The similarity of these measurements with those given in “Ancient Monuments,” page 116, leads us to believe that the two sketches are meant for the same group. The difference of position in the graded ways makes it desirable to have the ground resurveyed by a competent topographer.
S. Mis. 54——25

<<<Page: 387>>>

MOUNDS IN MOREHOUSE PARISH, LOUISIANA. By BrengamMin H. Bropnax, of Plantersville, La.
In reply to your circular relative to an exhaustive work on the “Archeology of America,” containing a request for “information concerning any mound or other ancient remains in our parish,” I annex the following: I have carefully gone over all the mounds, camping places, &c., that I can find in our parish, having traveled over 100 miles in so doing. There
S TO? a. VE a3 \WESSE PIAS \\ Sat gle < aD \ = a hee if ON = , ie = 6 S_Q : IN Was \ XS
| tie eae
Diagram N road ae Morehouse Paris
are only two clusters of mounds, one of them on the plantation of Dr. William P. Harrison, one mile west of Oak Ridge, and the other on the plantation of Mr. G. H. Johnson, in section 18, township 22 north, range 7 east, formerly the “ Raleigh Lassiter Place.” (Diagrams I, I.)

<<<Page: 388>>>

The sketch (Diagram IT) shows correctly the relative height of mounds in the latter location. In mound No. 1 human bones have been found, a skull, teeth, &c. I tried to get the skull, but the negro who plowed it up told me that, although nearly perfect when he found it, it crumbled into dust on the shelf where he placed it, in less than twenty-four hours. A small pottery jar or jug was also found in it, and a round ball of lead-
7 7 iy Uijti, M4,
Ad} Tiny
g>~~5 WY
8. Se =
wormanyna
aynig ssatdfia aacqn yaaf% ‘nofing
‘2 °ON WeIsvIG
‘AL'Aa “NSOoO'L ‘eOR[g S,uosuyor "Ht “H
‘eT ‘Ystieg esnoye1oyy ‘spunoyt JUSIOUY
cc— If
we 1
& » le x 2 2 Ss in : | y ate: a au eh Op FE , “8 F ~8¢
ik cy ze WS,
colored mica, 3 inches in diameter. The jar was broken in the tines, about one-half only remaining; it is made of soft grayish-blue clay, mixed with ground shell (I think); at least there were shiny and flaky patches mixed with the gray-blue clay.
The mounds are about 200 yards from the present east bank of the

<<<Page: 389>>>

bayou, which, however, seems to have gradually encroached on the bluff about 150 yards. The distance from No. 1 to No. 2is 150 yards; from No. 2 to No. 3, 100 yards. The land has been in cultivation for thirty-five years, and the mounds are much broken down in height and spread out at the base from washing down.
In No. 2 and No. 3 nothing except some rough arrow-heads have been found, and a polished broken quartz ax or tomahawk. It must have been a place of resort for fishing, &c., as there are remains of the river mussels found in the ground around the mounds, and in the mounds themselves.
These mounds have never been dug into, and I find no burnt clay about them to show that fire was used during their construction. The cypress brake east of the mounds is the head of a considerable chain of brakes and lagoons extending about 12 or 15 miles in a curve south and southeast, and on its banks are numerous camping places in which are found arrow-heads, broken pottery, shells (fresh-water) not now found in the brakes. This would show that either the brakes were once running water, or that the shells were brought from the bayou. This country is peculiar in its formation. From the Mississippi, extending west, is a vast level expanse of rich land, covered with luxuriant vegetation, cut up by sloughs, bayous, and brakes, with perhaps not 20 feet elevation above the Mississippi until you reach what are called the bluffs. These
elevations were once the banks of the immense lake which formed the —
backwater frem the Mississippi River. On both banks of the bayou,
on the hills as well as on the low lands, are evidences of a once numer—
ous population, extending back to the hills. Beside all the little rivulets
are remains of camps and places where pottery was burnt and arrow—
heads chipped.
These mounds appear, however, to have been the center of civiliza> —
tion, as the villages seem to be more scattered as you leave them.
I have prepared a plot of sections in my immediate neighborhood, _ where are camps, &c., marked down. These mounds are the only places in which there have been found bones (G. H. Johnson’s place), and from the paucity of them, I think that either the common people buried their dead promiscuously or burnt them on piles of wood. Only one skull has thus far been found in these mounds.
The mounds at Oak Ridge, in the southern part of this parish, were described by a former representative of this district, and sent to your institution just after the war.
They stand in the Mississippi bottom-lands, about 20 miles from the bluff, 25 miles from Lake Le Fouche, and must have been sacrificial mounds, as evidences of piles of dry canes having been burned on damp clay are found inthem. They seem to have been built in layers, covered with clay, and the canes (such as we now use for fishing-poles) were burnt on them, the impressions of the joints of the canes remaining in the burnt red clay. Bones and human remains found in them show great age. Quantities of celts, arrow-heads. chisels, wedges, &c., have been found in the fields and plantations for miles around.

<<<Page: 390>>>

WAMPUM BELTS OF THE SIX NATIONS. By W. M. BeaucHamp, of Baldwinsville, N. Y.
Some of these wampum belts of the Six Nations are remarkable for their great width; a belt of 30 rows being called “a prodigious large belt,” while the widest of them contains 49 rows.
No. 1, formed of white beads on dark ground of wampum, is about half of a belt of 7 rows, supposed to have been brought by the French missionaries. The ‘Long House” represents the Five Nations, and the cross, the French. No. 2 is a belt of 7 rows, with 4 pairs of diamonds remaining. No.3 has 12 rows, and there are now7 dark bars. No. 4 has a house in the center, with two small men inside. On one side without, are seven. men clasping hands; on the other, six. This is several feet long, and contains 15 rows. No. 5 is considerably broken ; it has 13 rows of beads and 4 bars. No.6 is of 7 rows, quite long, but not complete; the general design is a series of dark crosses. No. 7 represents the league of the Iroquois. It is of 58 rows, having white figures on purple ground. The league has but one heart, and each nation (a square) is united to that and each of the others. There are but two squares on each side now. No. 8 is of 49 rows. The figure shows about half of it. No.9 is of 45 rows, about one-third of it is here represented. No. 10 is of 7 rows, and has 5 hexagons, one for each of the Five Nations. Both sides of the belts are alike, deer-skin thongs running through-the length of the belt, the shell beads being sewed between. There are two others of 6 and 8 rows respectively, without particular design.
The outlines will give the general patterns accurately, but it would be difficult to show their real beauty. The beads themselves are of delicate colors, and the belts are very substantially made.

<<<Page: 391>>>



<<<Page: 392>>>

By FRANK D. ANDREWS, of Vineland, N. J.
While collecting fossils from the limestone rocks of Schoharie, N. Y., my attention was attracted by the numerous chips of hornstone which I noticed on crossmg a cultivated field, and I determined upon giving some time to their investigation.
About 50 rods west of the bridge crossing the Schoharie Creek, and at an elevation of about 75 feet, there issues from the rocks of the Lower Helderberg formation a fine cold spring. In the immediate neighborhood the soil, when under cultivation, appears dark and rich compared with the rest of the field. Here the Indians must have lived for some time, judging from the chips and fragments of their arrow-points and larger implements so plentifully scattered about.
Having visited the place only during the summer season, when the ground was partially covered by growing crops, I have never been able to give the locality as thorough a search as I would wish. Notwithstanding the unfavorable circumstances, I have found nearly one hundred arrow-heads in perfect or nearly perfect condition; a large number of broken spear and arrow heads, knives, and scrapers in various stages of completion ; also whetstones, sinkers, and hammer-stones in abundance.
The arrow heads do not show very much skill in their execution, though most of the types are found. The material used is hornstone and comes from the corniferous rocks of this locality. I have seen another workshop close to the creek, not far distant from the Cold Spring, where are abundance of chippings, and where I have found bits of pottery, arrow-heads, scrapers, and an ax of rude manufacture.
Down the creek a half mile or more, and on the eastern side, are fields—showing evidence of having been the sites of Indian encampments—from which I have gathered many of the articles mentioned above. Some of them are of material not found here, indicating that they must have been brought from a distance, by exchange or otherwise.
From the banks of a small stream emptying into the creek I have dug a number of fragments of pottery evidently belonging to one dish; with these occur ashes and burned pieces of bones. I have not been able to find any burial places. In building the railroad, and in making the road near the Cold Spring, bones were found.

<<<Page: 393>>>

By S. T. WaLkmR. of Clear Water, Florida. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
Much of the work reported in the following pages was done during the spring and summer of 1879, at intervals snatched from business engagements, and whatever was obtained in the way of relics at once transmitted to the Smithsonian Institution, together with letters fully explanatory, written while the whole affair was fresh in my mind.
I have endeavored to keep my imagination in subjection to reason, and whatever is offered in the way of theory is the result of much thought, and supported by many facts.
It is also necessary, perhaps, to state that the mounds were not examined in the order adopted in this report, as the first on the list were among the last examined. I have pursued the present plan in order that the reader may follow them in regular order along the coast as they occur, going south, into and around the shores of Tampa Bay. I have purposely omitted any descriptions of mounds composed entirely of shell, as I believe them to belong to an entirely different class. These
will be described in a separate paper devoted especially to their consideration.
This little stream is known by various names. The older maps designate it as the Achaskotie, others as the Pith-le-ches-k6tie, but it is commonly known among the people as the Kootie. It empties into the Gulf of Mexico about ten miles north of Anclote River, in Hernando County. Its mouth is filled with oyster bars, which extend up the river some distance, making navigation difficult for the smallest craft. On the south bank of this stream, one-fourth of a mile above its mouth, are two mounds of considerable size. The one nearest the sea is oblong in shape, 168 feet in length, 55 feet in breadth, and 5 feet high. It lies with its longest diameter nearly due north, and is composed of alternate layers of sand and shell, each layer being from 8 to 12 inches in thickness. The superincumbent soil was 8 inches thick. The shells used in its construction are those of the common oyster principally, with a slight admixture of small conchs and seallops. Figs. 3 and 4, Plate I, will give a good idea of this mound in ground plan and in section. The dotted portions show where excavations were made by me. No relics whatever were obtained from this mound, and, from its level top and general construction, I class it as a mound for residence. About 300 feet east of this lies another mound, somewhat longer and higher than the preceding, remarkable for its singular shape, which is somewhat like a club,

<<<Page: 394>>>

wun, ACHASKOTIE RIVER
Hernando Co, ETA.
ae Note. The shecded portions
tnclicete: Laplorations ,

<<<Page: 395>>>

with a projecting branch or horn near the smaller end. The structure is175 feet long. The larger or wider end is 50 feet wide and the smaller 15 feet across. The horn or branch leaves the main structure at an angle of about 45 degrees, 58 feet from the smaller end, and extends due north 20 feet, having an average width of 10 feet. Figs. 1 and 2, Plate I, represent this mound in ground plan and section. The whole structure slopes gently from the wide end, attaining its greatest height opposite the projecting horn; from this point it slopes rapidly away to the narrow end of both the horn and main mound.
Excavations systematically conducted revealed human remains in vast quantities in every part of the mound, but, owing to their great age, they crumbled at a touch, and it was with great difficulty that I obtained one perfect cranium. This skull was that of an adult. One side of the head had been broken in, and imbedded in the sand. Inside the head I found a rusty iron spike about 3 inches in length, and a broken arrow head. Excepting some highly ornamented fragments of pottery these were all the relics I obtained. These fragments were scattered throughout the mound.
The mode of burial was interment at full length, with the heads directed toward a common center, the body reclining on its right side; I discovered three of these circles of bodies, each containing from seven to fourteen adult skeletons.
These mounds are situated convenient to good water, and in a vicinity that afforded their builders easy access to oyster bars and shell-fish of every variety. No large trees grow on or near them, and the growth upon them consists of scrubby bushes and saw-palmetto.
About five miles south of the Kootie River, and some two miles north of the mouth of Anclote River, is a small stream called Trouble Creek. A considerable body of blue flint-rock occurs here, cropping out along the shores of the creek, with scattering nodules lying in all directions. This point was evidently used for a long time by the aborigines as a factory for arrow and spear heads. Bushels of chips and fragments strew the ground, and large quantities have been washed from the banks of the creek and cover its bottom. A long search revealed nothing except a few arrow points and spear heads spoiled in making, and a lot of broken pottery.
No doubt excavations along the banks would bring other relics to light, as the Indians must have resorted to this place in large numbers, and have worked here for a long series of years, judging from the depth of soil over the chips.
In ascending Anclote River one of the most prominent objects that attract the eye is a large oblong mound on the northern shore, which,

<<<Page: 396>>>



<<<Page: 397>>>

rising abruptly from the level coast, looks both larger and higher than itreallyis. (Plate IL.) Itis situated about halfa mile from the mouth of the river, and about the same distance from Mr. Hope’s dwelling and store, very near a well-known spring of water called the “ Old Spanish Well.”
The length of this mound is 235 feet, its breadth 166 feet, and its height 10 feet, and it is composed of alternate layers of sand and shell. The surface soil is 18 inches in depth, followed by a layer of shell one foot thick; below this is a stratum of sand two feet in thickness, followed by shell. This is as deep as I penetrated, but long experience convinces me that this order is maintained to the base, which begins with a foundation of shell. The shell used in the construction of the mound is that of the common oyster, doubtless obtained from the river close at hand. <A well-defined roadway on the southern side led to the top, which is perfectly level, and no doubt contained the residence of the chief of the tribe.
No explorations had been attempted previously to my visit, and I obtained no relics of any sort. The growth upon the mound was similar to that of the surrounding country, consisting of small stunted pines 10 or 12 inches in diameter, and saw-palmetto.
This mound is situated about one mile higher up the river, on the north bank, near the residence of Mrs. Myers, and about one-fourth of a mnile from the stream. (Plate II.) Some fresh-water ponds close at hand supplied the builders with fresh water, and the numerous shell heaps in the vicinity attest the productiveness of the fishing grounds.
The length of this structure is 168 feet, its breadth 88 feet, and its height 5 feet; it is composed entirely of sand. The pits from which this sand was obtained are three in number, located on the western end, and it is probable that a portion was excavated from the pond on the north side. The mound lies with its longest diameter nearly east and west.
No explorations had been made previously. I sunk a shaft in the center quite to the bottom; also one in each end below the foundation. The soil on top was 8 inches deep, and the timber upon it similar to that on the mound near the mouth of the river. This also will have to be classed with those enumerated before as having contained a residence.
Following the course of Anclote River to the eastward, above the ferry a large bayou breaks off to the south and southwest. Near the head or end of this bayou is a deep round pond called the “ Boiling Spring.” This spring is known for miles around, and is said to be of unfathomable depth. The water is deep blue, intensely salt, and before storms the spring boils in the center like a caldron. I saw sharks, tar

<<<Page: 398>>>

t ae)
PLATE Ill
Mound at Ormond’, ANCLOTE RIVER

<<<Page: 399>>>

pum, and other large fish in it. Half a mile northeast of this spring is a circular sand mound, built at the foot of a lowsand ridge. (Plate II.) Close at hand on the northeast is a series of shallow ponds, surrounded by marshes.
The mound is 95 feetin diameter, and is now about 5 feethigh. Originally it was probably surrounded by a ditch, which is nearly filled up and obliterated, though faint traces of it can be seen on the southern and southwestern sides.
Partial explorations had been made by the ladies of Mr. Ormond’s family, who informed me that they had found numerous skulls, pottery, &c., which were thrown about until destroyed. The growth upon the mound is precisely similar to that of the surrounding forests, consisting of tall pines from 18 inches to 2 feet in diameter.
I began operations on the southern side, intending to cut a wide trench entirely across the mound nearly to the foundation ; but, after spending considerable time and finding nothing, a closer examination revealed the fact that interments had only been made in a small area about the top and a short distance down the northern slope. So, abandoning my ditch, I went to work on the other side, and soon came upon large numbers of bones, fragments of pottery, &c., seemingly mingled in heartless confusion and disorder; arm, leg, and thigh bones being piled on top of skulls or wedged beneath them. As the work progressed, however, I began to see order arise out of the apparent confusion, and at length I found a skeleton in pretty good preservation, entirely separated from the others. I set to work to solve the problem in earnest. The entire absence of vertebra, ribs, shoulder-blades, &c., had struck me as very singular in the outset. Working away the sand with a small trowel from the bones imbedded in the wall before me, I got a perfect view, in section, of the mode of burial pursued by the aborigines. Plate III, Fig. 2, will give a correct idea of the method—A representing the bones as they lay in the earth; B, a mass of ashes, cinders, partly burned vertebre, and calcined sand ; a, a, the position of the arm bones; J, b, the bones of the leg and thigh; and ¢, the cranium.
Now, let us see if this does not unravel the whole mystery. We will suppose the mound-builders are about to perform the burial ceremony. First, a shallow grave is dug long enough to accommodate the body at full length, as atc, d, Fig. 2. A fire is kindled at B, and the body laid upon it, the legs, arms, and head projecting beyond it. The fire is confined entirely to the trunk of the body and kept burning fiercely until it is completely destroyed. This being accomplished, the legs are doubled as represented at A, the head placed face downward between the thighs, and the arms laid on or by the side of the head. Cooking vessels, cups, dishes, &¢., are now broken and thrown into the grave, which is filled with sand, and the ceremony is completed.
As to the age of the interments in this mound, I can only state that it is extremely probable that they were made previously to European

<<<Page: 400>>>

settlement, and before the growth of the present forest. In Plate ITT, Fig. 1, c and d represent the relative position of two large pine trees growing about two feet apart; near the roots the distance is reduced to one foot or less, making it impossible for an interment to have been made between them at any time. I made a careful examination between and beneath these trees, and at a depth of about 3 feet I found fragments of pottery and bones. A portion of a human cranium lay rather under the roots of the tree marked d, and I also obtained quite a large piece of the inferior maxillary, all of which were sent properly labeled to the Smithsonian Institution, together with ten crania and other objects of interest obtained from this mound.
Leaving Anclote River and proceeding south into Saint Joseph’s Bay, we come to the little village of Dunedin. Half a mile north of this village, and about 300 yards from the beach, is a large mound, with a wide roadway leading to the top, evidently built for a residence. It is situated near some fresh-water ponds, and in the immediate vicinity are several springs of good water. The face of the country is low and flat, and the growth is the usual saw-palmetto and pine, though at no great distance is a small hummock of good land, containing live-oak, &c. It lies with its longest diameter to the northwest, and is 156 feet in length, 80 feet wide, exclusive of the roadway, and is 9 feet high. The roadway commences 50 feet from the mound on the southwest side, and makes a gentle rise to the top of the main structure. It is composed entirely of sand. Explorations to a small extent had been made previously to my visit, but nothing valuable was found.
I sunk a shaft in the center 6 feet in diameter, quite to the foundation, and many smaller ones at various points along the crest, but found no relics whatever. Several large trees grow upon the mound of similar appearance to those in the surrounding forest. Plate IV gives a good idea of the shape of this mound and the ditches from which the sand of which it was built was obtained.
About two miles south of Dunedin is the mouth of Stevens’ Creek, a small stream which rises about four or five miles inland. Due east from the head of tide-water in this creek, on land belonging to Mr. John Russell, is a small burial mound, situated in a “rosemary scrub,” between two fresh-water ponds.
The mound is circular, 46 feet in diameter and 3 feet high. It is composed entirely of the snow-white sand peculiar to ‘‘ rosemary scrubs.”
Explorations had been:made previously to mine, and the few human remains it contained thrown out upon the surface, where they had crumbled into fragments. The remains found, I was told, consisted of four or five human skeletons in a pretty good state of preservation.

<<<Page: 401>>>

PLAN OF “Mound. at DUNEDIN ‘Hillsboro Ca;

<<<Page: 402>>>

After digging up the entire surface, I found nothing worthy of note. My predecessor left little excepting a few fragments of crania, teeth, and broken bones. Signs of fires were visible in several places, and as I saw no fragments of vertebra, I suppose that partial oe = practiced here as it was on the Anclote River.
No other mounds occur, that I am aware of, until we reach John’s Pass, 18 miles south of Clear Water. Here, on a low mangrove island just inside the pass, lying nearly east and west, is a small burial mound. The situation of this mound is peculiar in several respects, as the island contains very little habitable land and no fresh water whatever. The larger portion of the island is covered daily by tide-water, leaving only two low narrow ridges of dry land parallel with the northern and southern shores. These ridges are not over 25 yards in width in their broadest parts, and in most places they are not more than that number of feet in width.
The ridge running parallel with the southern shore is very low and narrow, and at its eastern termination is not more than 2 feet above tidewater. At this point is situated the burial mound under consideration, covered by a dense growth of sea-grape and Spanish bayonet.
The mound is oval in shape, 50 feet long by 25 feet wide, and not exceeding 3 feet higher than the original level of the ridge upon which it is built. The material used in its construction is sand, which was obtained by cutting away the ridge to the east and west, and heaping the sand thus obtained upon the land left between the ditches.
The mound had never been explored, but many bones and skulls lay exposed upon its surface, the result of weathering, or possibly of invasions of the sea, or both. The surface about the base was thickly strewn with fragments of pottery; in fact, it seemed that the whole
*foundation of the mound was covered with broken pottery previously to the interment of any of the bodies.
Here the mode of burial changed. There were no signs of fire whatever, and the skeletons reposed at full length, generally resting on the right side. Another point of difference was the large number of children and infants buried here—only about fifteen adults to some forty interments. I succeeded in obtaining nine perfect crania from this mound, among them those of several children, but no ornaments except a solitary glass bead and a short tube of silver formed by rolling a thin plate into a cylinder.
There are no large trees on the island, excepting a few scraggy cedars ; consequently, the growth upon the mound consisted of small bushes similar to those growing along the higher ground. On either side mangrove flats stretch away, where the soldier-crabs hold high carnival. The finding of the glass bead does not prove conclusively that the internents do not antedate the period of Kuropean emigration, as it lay upon
S. Mis. 5426

<<<Page: 403>>>

Turtle shaped Mound LONG KEY, BOCA CIEGA BAY ELORIDA
Note. The dolted portions on the figures show location oS excavations.
Crass Sectum
Circular Mound
Pi: FINELEOS FLORIDA Wote. The dotted portions on the figures indicate the
places where shafis and Pre were suni.
vine Co., New York,

<<<Page: 404>>>

the surface and may not have constituted a part of the interments. It is possible, as it was alone, that it might have beer lost there long after the burials were made.
Nearly opposite John’s Pass, upon the mainland, on the south side of Boca Ciega, or Four-Mile Bayou, at or near the mouth of a small creek which empties into the bayou, are two large mounds, one of shell and the other of sand. As the owner of the land required pay for the privilege, | made no examination either into their structure or contents. As
it is not at all probable that any person will pay the required tribute, the mounds will no doubt remain intact until they fall into the hands of a more liberal owner.
Long Key is a narrow island, about five miles in length, lying between Boca Ciega, or Blind Pass, on the north, and Pass A’grille, on the south. About midway between the passes a tongue of land makes out into Boca Ciega Bay toward the southeast, covered by a dense forest of cabbagepalms. The land is good and there is an abundance of oysters and shellfish along the shores and on the adjacent flats.
It is not without some hesitation that I attribute to this mound a turtle shape, as such an occurrence among the mounds in this part of Florida is an anomaly. Whether the shape depicted in Plate V, Fig. 1, was the result of deliberate design on the part of the builders, or was the accidental result of irregular ditching, I cannot say. The mound proper consists of a structure of sand 108 feet long and 66 feet wide. It is about 5 feet high at the point marked A in the figure. This constitutes the body, or carapace, and tail of the supposed turtle. The ditches, a, a, a, are distinct and leave the flippers, B, B, and the head, C, at the natural level of the land. The view in section, Fig. 2, will convey an idea of what I mean, A being the mound and B, B, the ditches, leaving the flippers as before stated. In other words, the flippers are not the result of heaping up sand, their shape being given by the ditches. Whether the design was to give the form of a turtle or not, the result was precisely the same, the whole structure having a wonderful resemblance to that animal. It is not at all improbable that the ancient architects had that form in view in the construction of this mound, as the beaches of this island are still the resort of hundreds of turtle, which come up to lay their eggs in the sand during the summer; and successful turtle fisheries are now carried on in Boca Ciega Bay, immediately opposite this point.
Some one had dug into the mound before me, but with what result I know not. The excavation was about 6 feet in diameter and 3 feet in depth. I explored it thoroughly in every portion, finding all parts of the human skeleton except the skull. The bodies were buried at full

<<<Page: 405>>>

length, and no signs of fire were to be seen. I found several lower jawbones and many teeth, but fragments of crania were not discovered.
One large cedar grew upon the mound, and many tall palm trees, the positions of which are indicated by small circles in the figure. A few oyster-shells were scattered through the sand, but no utensils or ornaments of any kind were found. Pottery was also wanting, and the whole structure and contents indicated a different race, or, at least, different customs, mode of burial, and building, from any of the mounds hitherto described.
About three miles further south, below Pass A’giille, are two islands, divided by a narrow bayou, which are known as Pine Key. On the older maps the northern key is named Cabbage Island and the otber Pine Key. On the southern key, below the bayou, is a long lagoon called the Duck Pond. At the southern extremity of this pond, in a dense wilderness of cabbage-palms and saw-palmetto, is a mound of imposing height and considerable size. The view from the top is quite extensive, and looking thence one would suppose that the mound could be seen for a long distance, but such is not the case; in a search of two days I frequently passed within 100 yards of it without finding it.
Explorations had been made previously along the top by persons who professed to have found numerous arrow-heads and ornaments of bone, human skeletons, &c. IJInmy own work I was not so fortunate, as it was with great difficulty that I obtained four crania and one bone ornament inlaid with copper. The bone of this ornament decomposed rapidly upon exposure to the air, but before this happened I was successful in obtaining a pretty correct drawing of it, which was sent to the Smithsonian Institution along with the other relies obtained.
This mound is 135 feet in diameter, and is about 15 feet above the level of the island. However, it is built upon a natural elevation, and the actual structure is not above 5 or 6 feet high. The material was obtained close at hand, and the outlet of the pond appears to have been artificially enlarged by ditching. The evidence is positive that the aborigines visited this island in vast numbers, as the eastern side is strewed with shells, which in many places lie in masses many feet in thickness. Several large palms and a large live-oak grow upon the mound.
At Maximo Point, on the mainland, is an immense mound, entirely hidden from view by the rank growth of the hummock in which it is situated, surrounded by embankments of shell, winding in all directions like modern fortifications. On the eastern side there is a deep excavation, perhaps 200 feet in diameter, which contains water. The situation for obtaining food was excellent, as the land is fertile and the fishing grounds good,

<<<Page: 406>>>

I did not attempt to make any drawings of this complicated affair, as the growth upon and around it is so dense that a person is obliged to crawl through it, and after following the winding banks for half an hour one is about as likely to come out exactly where he goes in as anywhere else. Cabbage-palms of all sizes, intermingled with thorny bushes, prickly pear, and Spanish bayonet, make progress slow, painful, and unsatisfactory, at the same time obstructing the vision totally.
After three or four hours of hard labor, I arrived at the following conclusions: the mound proper is a structure 15 feet in height and several hundred feet in length, level on the top, with three sides almost precipitous. On the south the usual roadway reaches the top by a gentle slope. It is composed of alternate layers of sand and shell, the sand being obtained from the beforementioned excavation on the eastern side, which is surrounded, except in one place, by an embankment, the break in which constitutes an outlet for the water. Along the beach, and extending back to the mound, there are winding banks of shell from 35 to 5 feet high. These continue at intervals along the coast to Point Pinellos, three miles below.
After digging in many places, and finding nothing excepting a few fragments of pottery and the sharpened end of a cedar post, which no doubt formed a part of an ancient building, I gave up the search until fortune should favor me with more leisure and fewer mosquitoes. In the bluffs along the beach, half a mile below, I picked up a skull that had been washed out by the sea, but diligent search failed to reveal anything more.
One mile south of Maximo Point is the most beautiful mound that I have seen in South Florida. It stands about one-fourth of a mile inland, immediately opposite a place known as Bethel’s Camp. There are good springs of water along the beach, between which and the mound is a narrow strip of hummock. The mound is situated in a “ rosemary serub,” and rises to an imposing height above the low trees in its vicinity. Its outlines are beautifully regular, and all its angles are sharp and well defined.
Its length (estimated) is about 200 feet along the top, and its height 20 feet. It is about 30 feet wide onthe top, with a beautiful inclined roadway leading up its western side. Figs. 3.and 4, Plate VI, will give an idea of its ground plan and end elevation. At A, Fig. 3, an excavation was made many years ago, consisting of a ditch 25 feet long. No one could tell me who dug it. Ona pine tree at a, Fig. 3, the date “1840” is cut in the bark; the tree is about twelve inches in diameter, and is about as large as any of the trees in the vicinity. At the point B, same figure, another pit had been dug, and I was informed by reliable parties that the skeleton of a man had been taken from it—also an Indian pipe. The bones had long since fallen into dust and the pipe been lost. I extended this pit in all directions, but found nothing excepting afew pieces

<<<Page: 407>>>

406 By
Sketch of Mound on POINT PINELLOS FLORIDA.
re LSeand Mound
(Fa PUIG WZ) MIRANDA A
KS ith WSS CHEVALIER. BENNETT BY QE : Sy A o Moundand TES) Se ATE dhell.
ww/0

<<<Page: 408>>>

of pottery. I also opened other points, as at ¢ and d, with a like result. This mound is probably more modern than any of the domiciliary mounds, and may be considered typical of its class.
1, 2, 3 are large mounds composed of sbell and sand. Nos. 4, 5, 6 are low shell-heaps (ver. y ancient) on sand flats.
Nos. 7 anil 8 are sand mounds, one 2 feet the other 5 feet high.
No. 9 is an immense mound over 20 feet high, built of alternate layers of shell and sand, surrounded by an wroonie wall from 5 to 10 feet high, partly shell and partly sand. The dense growth prevented an accurate plan during my short visit, but this is the most stupendous work I have seen anywhere in Florida, slightly explored.
No. 10 is a large oblong mound 25 feet high, built of sand and shell, with a graded way on west side sloping to che top. The sides are precipitous. A pine tree on the summit bears date 1840.
Nos. 11 and 12 are low sand mounds 5 or 6 feet high and 100 feet in
diameter.
No. 13 three large shell mounds 25 feet high.
Nos. 14, 15, and 16 sand mounds about the height and dimensions of 11 and 12.
No. 10 is very interesting from the fact that it contained skeletons. An old excavation is visible, probably made in 1840, and one quite recent. One skeleton was obtained a few years ago. I dug in the old ditches extending them in all directions, and obtained numerous specimens of pottery, arrow-heads, and implements, but all were lost in the wreck of our boat. I also explored slightly Nos. 9,11, and 12, but found nothing raluable.
As the cireular sand mounds on Point Pinellos are precisely similar, except in dimensions, I have selected one out of the seven located there for description, that one being in the best state of preservation and combining all the peculiar characteristics of the class.
This mound is situated at the foot of a gentle slope, near a series of shallow ponds, on the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter section 28, township 12, range 31 east, half a mile pe the residence of John H. McLauchlin. The structure (Plate V, Figs. 2 and 3) is a perfect circle, 175 feet in diameter and 5 feet ay surrounded by a ditch 6 feet wide and 3 feet deep, except at two Beate exactly opposite, where the ditch is discontinued and a pathway 6 feet wide left to the interior. The mound is built of sand, and contains no pottery or relics whatever; no signs of fire could be seen, nor any clue, however small, to lead even to a guess as to the uses to which these structures were applied. I have examined four out of the seven mentioned here, with a like result. The growth upon all these mounds consists of large pines, similar in size and age to those in the surrounding forests.
The locations of the remaining six are as follows:

<<<Page: 409>>>

Mound
— at — PAPYS BAYOU
Note.Lhe Shaded portions indicate
explorations,
if H /y Hl, itis

<<<Page: 410>>>

One in section 33, same township; one in section 26, ditto; two on the land of Mr. Vincent Leonardi, near Pinellos Post Office, and half a mile from the Salt Lake; and two on the extreme point one mile south of the large mound at Bethel’s Camp.
The one in section 26 is the largest and highest, being perhaps 250 feet in diameter and 7 feet high. The neighborhood school-house stands upon it. The others are similar in dimensions to the one described.
These mounds are situated on a narrow peninsula on the north side of Papy’s Bayou, on Old Tampa Bay. The place is known as Pillan’s Hummock, and had been settled at some time in the past, but I presume the settlers fled before invading hosts of mosquitoes and sand-flies. A few tumble-down houses in a small clearing, surrounded by straggling orange and lemon trees will serve as a starting point to any one seeking the mound. IT'rom these “improvements” a due north course will bring one into the neighborhood of this rather singular structure.
It is an oval-shaped mound, about 5 feet high, situated on a low ridge in a very dense hummock. For 100 feet a ditch 2 feet deep runs in the direction of its longer diameter. At this point the structure forks, and two embankments 5 feet high continue for 50 feet, making the entire length of the mound 150 feet. The shorter diameter is 75 feet in the center, and at the southern end it is 60 feet wide. The central trench is 15 feet in width, and from the southern end traces of a ditch or ancient road may be followed several hundred yards into the hummock. The embankments forming the forks are 20 feet wide where they leave the main structure, gradually narrowing down to 10 feet at the ends. Fig. 1, Plate VI, represents a ground plan of the mound, A being the central depression, and B, B, the higher portions. C represents the trail or roadway leading to the mound. Fig. 2 is a section across the end, looking down the ditch.
Excavations revealed human bones in every portion of the mound, but by far the larger part occupied the central trench. They were in a bad state of preservation, and I succeeded in getting out only three sufficiently sound to bear transportation, after thorough saturation with boiled oil. I atso found one whole bowl, but on my taking it out the bottom crumbled into powder, and the rim broke into several pieces; enough was preserved, however, to make restoration possible.
The mode of burial was precisely the same as that described minutely in the history of the Ormond mound, and represented in Fig. 2, Plate III, which renders repetition unnecessary.
The growth on the mound consisted of small oaks, and was precisely similar to that around it. It lay with its longer diameter toward the north.
Three or four hundred yards west of this is another mound, composed of alternate layers of sand and shell, 150 feet in length, by 45 in width,

<<<Page: 411>>>

lying in the same direction as the other. It differs from other mounds of this class in sloping gradually from the southern to the northern end. No doubt the northern end was once level and contained a dwelling. At the highest point it is about 45 feet above the level of the earth. Excavations here brought nothing to light worthy of note.
We now have arrived at a mound which, though of insignificant size, yielded a rich and valuable collection of Indian relics. It is situated on the south side of Alligator Creek, which empties into Old Tampa Bay, one mile north of Bayview Post Office. It is located in a dense sprucepine serub, on the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter section 8, township 29, range 16 east, half a mile north of the residence of Mr. Rufus MeMullen. So low and flat was this mound previously to the excavation that one might have walked over it without noticing it. I am indebted to the courtesy of Mr. McMullen for my knowledge of this mound, for without his assistance I should never have been able to find it.
The mound was cireular in shape, 46 feet in diameter, and not above 3 feet above the level of the ground in its highest part. It was a mass of human bones, disposed in three strata or layers, the mode of burial differing very slightly from that figured in Plate ILI.
In the lower stratum I found no ornaments and but little pottery, but in the middle and top layers, especially the latter, nearly every cranium was encircled by strings of colored beads, brass and copper ornaments, trinkets, &e. Among other curious objects were a pair of scissors and a fragment of looking-glass. By using patience and care I obtained many strings of beads in the order they were worn by their owners. In two cases fragments of string remained in the beads, preserved by the copper. The beads, many of them being of cut glass and of various colors, were very beautiful.
The latest interments in this place evidently took place after the invasion of the peninsula by the Spaniards, and cannot possibly be older than three hundred and forty years—probably much less. The peculiar pattern of the scissors may throw some light on the subject when examined by persons competent to judge. It is possible that many of the beads and trinkets may have been obtained from De Soto’s expedition, for tradition points out Phillippi’s Point, eight miles north of this, as the place of hislanding. Ialso obtained thirty-four skulls, carefully selecting the best specimens from each layer, together with numerous fragments of ornamental pottery. These, all carefully labeled, were sent to the Smithsonian Institution at the time.
This is one of the largest mounds on Tampa Bay, and it is unfortunate that there are impediments in the way of exploration. The struct

<<<Page: 412>>>

ANTHROPOLOGY. All
ure is nearly half an acre in extent, and four different men claim an interest in it, a land corner being located on it; besides this it supports an orange grove. The location is beautiful, the land fertile, and fresh water abundant.
Some years ago a storm drove the waters of the bay against it, carrying away a portion of the eastern base and exposing its internal structure. -It is built of sand and shell in alternate layers. It is said that many bones were washed out of it at the time; but its structure and general appearance indicate that it was designed as a domiciliary mound, like others of its class. As the permission of the owners was necessary before anything could be done, I did not take any measurements or make any explorations.
I will conclude the present report with a description of this mound, copied from the Tampa Sunland and Tribune of November 18, 1876, written by Lieut. A. W. Vogdes, of the Fifth Artillery, U.S. A., not that I agree with any of his deductions or conclusions, but simply because it contains a very minute description of what he found in the mound. I will further state that it is not a shell mound proper, but is built of alternate layers of sand and shell, like all the domiciliary mounds hitherto described. The measurements, which he neglects to give, are: Length, 108 feet; width, 100 feet; height, 7 to9 feet. The sand was obtained close at hand from excavations along the western base. I examined the shells taken from several layers, and found none that are not’common and abundant in the bay to-day, and I see no good reason for attributing to this mound a greater age than any described in this report because some of the shells are found fossil in the Pliocene. Partial cremation, which I have shown to have been common in this region, will account satisfactorily for the charred bones, and relieve the aborigines of the unnecessary charge of cannibalism.
“On the military reservation of Fort Brooke, near the sea-shore, there are several shell mounds, the largest of which the writer has spent many spare moments investigating. After carefully measuring this mound we dug into its center, and at a depth of 5 feet struck a layer of oyster shells (Ostrea virginianum) about one foot indepth. Below this heap we found the remains of a mound-builder, a male, giving us the following measurements: The greatest longitudinal diameter , 74 inches; breadth between the points of parietal bones, 45 inches; internal capacity, measured with No. 8 shot, 21 pounds, avoirdupois ; circumference, taken by tape measure on a plane, including glabella, occiput, and lateral points, 21 inches. The body lay at an angle of about ‘10°, the head lowest and towards the east. No ornaments were found deposited with or near the remains.
“ During other visits to this mound, and after making many excava

<<<Page: 413>>>

Saag etre Lei
Lc), Wi) ~ x i
g B o a 2 i
Around TAMPA BAY

<<<Page: 414>>>

tions on the crest and at its base, we were enabled to find the position of former fires, which give some evidence of the former cannibalism of the ancient people of Florida. We found near this fire but few remains of implements, consisting of one arrow-head, very primitive, broken pieces of pottery, a few ornamented with very rude stamped figures, which generally consisted of raised lines drawn at equal distances from each other.
“The animal remains consisted ofthe bones of the dog, a claw of the common crab, and a human tibia burned and split, which discovery almost directly points to the cannibalistic habits of the mound-builder. We were so fortunate as to procure several specimens, one having the anterior process, which shows some tendency to flatten above the nutrient artery.
‘The evidence we have to offer regarding the age of the mound is very unsatisfactory, consisting of rude pottery which would point to a greater age, or parallel with the mounds on Saint John’s River; but we find this pottery in another place on the same mound. (Plate I, a, D.)
‘‘ The shells point more or less to the Pliocene age, although the mound gives us a limited genera. We find the Busycon carica, a common shell on the Atlantie coast, but occurring as a fossil in the Miocene of Maryland, South Carolina, and North Carolina; B. perversum, fossil in the Pliocene of South Carolina; Ostrea virginianum, common to the coast, but fossil in the Pliocene; Pyrula pyrum, fossil in the Pliocene of South Carolina. The larger specimens are still common (according to Holmes and Toumey) to the Atlantic coast. We find in this mound the larger and smaller specimens mixed.”
REPORT ON THE SHELL WEAPS OF TAMPA BAY, FLORIDA. By S. T. WALKER, of Clear Water, Plorida.
No little speculation has been expended upon those vast accumulations of shells which line the coasts of Florida, and stand as silent witnesses of the labors of an ancient people that once inhabited this peninsula. These immense mounds strike the mind of the beholder with amazement when he considers the limited resources of the savages who constructed them; for in the presence of these great monuments the largest domiciliary mounds of sand sink into utter insignificance, and it becomes hard to realize how the united efforts of a savage people, the larger part of whose time must have been occupied in procuring a bare sufficiency of food, could have been concentrated on such useless works for a sufficient time to erect them.
It was thoughts like these which first led me to examine them critically, in order to discover the object of their erection and the method. of their construction. Mound after mound was explored with pick and shovel, and every object that presented itself, howeyer minute, was ex

<<<Page: 415>>>

sha a\ Cr
2p ox
iin th ay Sie Ww ies S SSIS Sr IS SK ISD RSS SASS SECTION OF SHELL HEAP
re >
GS y Gr (i, = : sel aes
1 nell
AclSHAWS POINT. MOUTH OF MANATD RIV. FLORIDA.

<<<Page: 416>>>

PL AGieE alle
—_— —<—~ —— ee SS Se ee a = an —<=< nN oon. ee Rica ngeen ee ES — — = > SSS SS = Se es ——e 7 ome
SSNS nnn
as : ee SS ee — ce —_ SS a. haere ee ea ane oe € = 2a. ~~ _ — se foe a
See ae
<< Bats = a ~ ~_— —bs te 2D ee eS ome =a ~ aa 2s, Oe == fe 4. ea <—< Sikes a a eN * ne ee See : ie = 2 eS en eS Pasion ; | : = is ~~ “eo SS Seen neem 2 SS = = Bee = <S— a Frey oo SS eee gs SEI ~ — 4 Se . = =e Se we eee ee

<<<Page: 417>>>

amined with care and interest; but the mystery remained, and its solution seemed as difficult as at the beginning. These explorations were continued for two years, at intervals snatched from business, and during that time I examined many mounds of various sizes; but, owing to their great dimensions, and the extreme difficulty of opening them with the limited means at my command, I was very little wiser than when I began, except that I became familiar with their contents, and was prepared by some experience and thought to grasp the secret when opportunity threw it in my way. This opportunity occurred in November, 1879, while I was connected with the United States Fish Commission, at Shaw’s Point, mouth of Manatee River.
The shell heaps or mounds at this place extend along the shore 564 feet, and are from 15 to 20 feet in altitude at the highest points. The encroachment of the sea upon the northern front has cut away the slope and left a perpendicular wall 15 feet high, presenting a perfect section of the mound through its greater diameter, and affording a better view of its internal structure than could possibly be obtained by anything short of many months’ labor and the expenditure of many hundreds of dollars. Here the archeologist may read the history of the shell heaps, as the geologist reads the history of the earth, in the sections presented by bluffs or land-slides, and on that crumbling wall is written the prosy, practical fact that, far from being witnesses of industry and of patient labor, they are the mighty monuments that want and hunger have erected to appetite! The shell heaps are simply the débris, the fragments, of former feasts.
In order to understand what is to follow, the reader is referred to Plate I, where a rude sketch of a portion of the wall is presented. The shaded points A A, represent the position of former fires; a, a, a, thin strata of soil in which are scattered bones of the turtle, crabs’ claws, spines of the sea-urchin, &c.; and B B, the surface soil on the top and. sides of the mound.
Referring now to Plate II, let us suppose a company of savages to encamp and build fires at A. They feast upon the shell-fish procured upon the adjacent flats, throwing the shells around the encampment at some distance from the fires. The fishermen bring shark, drum-fish, crabs, &e., and the hunting parties bring deer, birds, &c., whose bones are added to the ever-increasing circle around the camp, until in the course of time the wall has grown in height and thickness so as to encroach upon the central fires, and removal becomes necessary. The fires are now removed to the top of the encircling heap, and occupy its periphery at many points, as B, C, D, and E. The shells and fragments again being thrown on all sides, but the center, A, receiving half the shells from all the fires along the crest, it naturally grows to be the highest, the dotted lines f, f, f showing the outline of the mound at this stage. The shells having again encroached upon the fires, another removal becomes necessary to higher points, and so the structures ascend, always

<<<Page: 418>>>

| | | \! Wl | Nt PU A AL
| Hat tl rat
4 << Fe es 2 : SS ——— ——— SSS -
| ill Th): ’ | HH) ) \ | | | | ‘lull Hh ial
{ S. Mis. 5427
prion }
: Lt i i)
[|| PS ste \ | Nhe: <2 oN
1 JI Hy os rf il Tues AY iM
Mound at Bullfrog Florida

<<<Page: 419>>>

growing highest in the center, until in the course of long ages they attain their present imposing altitudes and dimensions. Whenever a fire-place was abandoned for any considerable time, a thin stratum of soil accumulated, in which we find occasional bones, shell, &c. These strata, which are quite thin, are represented by shaded ime as a, a, Plate I.
In confirmation of this view, I refer to the circles of shell E E, in the ground plans of the mounds at Shaw’s Point and Indian Hill, Plates iil and IV, which are the beginnings of new mounds.
I do not wish to be understood as affirming that the plan I have described was pursued in the regular order I have indicated. Far from it. The irregularity of their shapes proves rather that their erection was due to chance rather than design, and the long irregular walls running parallel with the beach show that in many eases the fires were scattered along the shores, and that it was only when forced by the accumulating
mass that the fires were removed to the top of the heap. Indeed, where room was afforded we generally find walls or banks, and in most cases the iargest shell-heaps occur where the savages were crowded together on the higher grounds nearly or quite surrounded by water, as at the mouth of Bullfrog, and notably at Indian Hill, but there are, of cos exceptions to this rule.
The materials of which the shell heaps are composed are indicated by the name applied to them, shells constituting by far the larger portion of the mass, differing only in the species composing them; and here I will state that, after diligent search, I have never discovered a shell in these heaps belonging to a species that is not common in Tampa Bay to-day. The kinds of shell that predominate are those which are most abundant in the immediate vicinity. Thus,if the mound be located near oyster-bars, aS on bayous, or near the mouths of creeks or rivers, we find that shell constituting the mass of the structure. If on or near sand-flats, we find conchs, clams, scollops, &¢., predominating. Intermingled with the sheii, but forming only a small part of the mass, are crabs’ claws, and the bones of the turtle, shark, druin-fish, deer, and seabirds, occurring as named, the bones of the turtle being most plentiful. Broken pottery of a very thick, heavy pattern, without ornament, is scattered about the sites of former fires. Stone ornaments and arrowheads are sometimes found on the surface, but never, to my knowledge, in the interior of these mounds.
In one instance only I discovered human bones in a shell-heap, viz, in the small detached mound marked E, Plate LV, Fig. 2, where a groundplan of the shell-heaps at Indian Hillis given. The bones were those of women and children buried in a doubled position face downward. The bones were all crushed and broken by the weight of the superincumbent mass, and Lobtained but one partially perfect skull. The short time at my disposal here did not permit me to make the work at all thorough. At every point opened on this meund I found human bones, even along

<<<Page: 420>>>

the sides and near the base, and in such close proximity to ancient fires that the advocates of the “ cannibalistic propensities of the ancient inhabitants” would need no further proof. I admit that the finding of human bones in the fragments of a feast looks, to say the least, a little suspicious, especially as they occur in company with those of the turtle and deer, but I think we can account for it satisfactorily without resorting to the repulsive theory of cannibalism.
In the first place, it must be remembered that these heaps are composed of very loose materials liable to move and change position at the slightest touch, and it is not only possible but extremely probable that the bones found near the sites of former fires along the sides and base had been carried there by the sliding down of the shell along the crest where they were originally decently interred. All the bodies found upon the crest had been buried in the usual manner and none of them were on or near a fire-place ; hence I argue that these were chance burials made long subsequently to the erection of the mound, and in no manner connected with the history of its erection.
Having now considered the origin and construction of the shell-heaps nothing remains but to give a list of the principal ones along the shores from Clear Water Harbor, on the Gulf coast, around Tampa Bay, to the mouth of Manatee River.
The first shell-heap of any consequence occurs at Dwight’s orange grove, one mile north of Clear Water post-office. It consists of two long heaps lying nearly parallel with each other, and at right angles with the coast, and one rather small one between them. ‘These heaps are 300 feet long and from 10 to 15 feet high. From these heaps a well beaten roadway extends 150 yards to a fresh-water pond. The roadway is still distinct, although the land has been in cultivation for ten years.
Two small heaps occur five miles south of this, near Indian Pass Church.
The next of importance is on Four-mile Bayou, near Murphy’s.
Two more occur near the water’s edge on the sand flats at the mouth of Bear Creek, Boca Ciega Bay.
Extended banks of shell wind along the shores in every direction at Maximo Point, Boca Ciega Bay, and continue at intervals all the way to Point Pinellos, occasional mounds occurring here and there at differfent points.
At Pinellos post-office, on Big Bayou there are three immense shellheaps, 25 or 30 feet high, and from 300 to 400 feet in diameter, composed almost entirely of oyster-shells.
One mile north, on the land of Mr. Cox, is a large shell-heap nearly a fmile inland. It is about 15 feet high and 200 feet in diameter.
_ On Booker Creek, one mile north of this, are several large shell-heaps nm the premises of Mr. Williams. These heaps are from 25 to 30 feet phigh, and from 300 to 350 feet in diameter. The largest can be seen for several miles.

<<<Page: 421>>>

*ydo, MeN “OD wBuUlATAsN3-0204) =
“VaTuo lL ANY myouEY\, Jo yMOpY INIOd S<MVHS ye
SdVai TITAS
SSS Ew A SSEAAGZzyz—— —
Nila LV ad

<<<Page: 422>>>

Shell Mound m Ss
BOfE hiflo ung \\N\S
S H \\ gH Mtintny, Ground plant / : :
L Mi = Rob Tagle Ss
wy . omy 40
—at— INDIAN HILL Tampa Bay
Zp Muii
2oft high Ly SS Mibyiyinnyyyn : MM) uu DL A
Sy 5) 2 Pi pnw

<<<Page: 423>>>

Passing over many small collections, we come to the great shell-heap at the mouth of Bullfrog Creek, 10 miles southeast of Tampa. This mound is 30 feet high and 200 feet in length by the same in breadth.
Next in order is the shell-heap at Indian Hill. This mound, with the shell banks connected, is 700 or 800 feet in length and from 20 to 30 feet high. The three highest pinnacles rise above the trees and may be seen four or five miles at sea.
The last of the great shell-heaps of Tampa Bay is the mound at Shaw’s Point, mouth of Manatee River, which has been described at length in this report. The ground-plan, Plate IV, gives all the dimensions of the crest. Of course the base is much greater.
By FRANK H. NuTTerR, of West Roxbury, Mass.
The accompanying plan shows one of the groups of Indian mounds on the shores of Lake Minnetonka, in Excelsior Township, Hennepin County, Minnesota. Excelsior is in the same county as Minneapolis, and is, by road, eight-
een miles west of that city. It lies in the edge of the “‘ big woods,” a belt of hard-wood timber extending nearly across the State. The country is very rolling, though the hills are not generally of much height, and, except where cleared by the farmers, or in the sloughs around the numerous lakes, are covered by a heavy growth of hard wood, mostly of the following varieties: white, burr, red and black oak, rock and rarely white maple, white and slippery elm, basswood, and ironwood, or hop hornbeam. Except on the shores of the lakes, rocks and stones, even of small size, are very scarce. .
This lake was in former years the hunting-ground both of the Dakota and Chippewa Indians, and as they were deadly enemies, has doubtless been the scene of many battles. The last one was fought about twenty years ago at Shakopee, on the Minnesota River, about eight miles south of this point, in which several lives were lost.
The group of mounds shown on the plan is located about one and a half miles (by road about a mile farther) northwest of Excelsior Village, at the head of a branch of the lake, known as Gideon’s Bay. In the map the location is marked by a cross. As shown on the plan, there can now be distinguished sixty-nine mounds (one was leveled to afford a site for the house), and two lines of embankment, one running nearly north, the other about west. The largest, together with the embankments, are found mostly in the grove and the orchards overlooking the lake, and on the height of ground, as shown by the figures on the plan, giving approximate heights above the present level of the water.
The trees of the grove, are fine forest trees, left when the land was

<<<Page: 424>>>

Excelsior, Hennepin Co,
Minnesota
Frank WNutter Top. Tingr
at et 3t sj i i) rf iW
ram wrt us ves Uris
1 0) Aan na enc
oy a &
Scale of feet
Page MBI ER orm haw t= 95" Fob
ea IS" "AS
2 9n LAKE PARK
“GneMileNEo Gideon's,
¢ 25
=~ ae — = = a ee == » se @ o

<<<Page: 425>>>

cleared, twenty-five years ago, and are of very large size. Ihave shown on the plan several whose position on the mounds would indicate that the work was finished before they took root upon them. These trees are elm and bass-wood, and from 14 to 2 feet in diameter.
The wood land, except an occasional culling for fire-wood, has not been touched since the country was settled, and no difference can be distinguished between the growth upon the mounds and that elsewhere.
The “ grass-meadow,” though now dry and used for pasturage, was, when the farm was settled, impassable, but by opening it more freely, to the light and air, and on account of the subsidence of the lake, it has now become dry land. There seems to be no doubt that at a comparatively recent date this tract and the other sloughs around the lake were submerged and formed portions of the main body of water. This fact may account in some degree for the peculiar arrangement of the mounds. The rapidity with which the shallow portions of protected bays and small bodies of water in this section become land is very wonderful. The pioneer plant is the wild rice, growing in almost impenetrable masses, in from 1 to 3 feet of water. Other aquatic plants and mosses follow, which afford a foothold for sedge and wild grass, while the gradual fall of the water, owing to continued winters without heavy snows, assists in hastening the process. I myself this season. went dryshod across a meadow where seven or eight years ago a boat was necessary. A short distance to the north of these mounds, but beyond the limits of the map, are sloughs, which extend to the “‘ Upper Lake,” so the two sheets of water, which, measured on an east and west line, are now about a mile apart, probably were once separated by a much narrower neck of high land.
These mounds, excepting the seattering ones south of the “ grassmeadow,” are located about on the height of land and on the brow of the slope running down to the low land inclosed within their circle. Those within the woodland are not generally of much height, as will be seen by the figures on the plan, and as they are unprotected by turf or grass, every severe rain assists in washing them down, and must finally obliterate them, as the last twenty-five years has plainly shown.
The necessary cultivation of the orchards is also destroying these interesting remains of some former race, although the owner of the farm takes much pride in them, and does all he can to preserve them.
The embankment which runs parallel with the lake shore once extended nearly across the orchard south of the house, but now all trace of it is lost. It is, in section, a ridge, sloping equally on either side, and where best preserved is about 25 feet wide and 24 feet high.
A little mound in the north orchard has been opened. At the depth of 54 feet, somewhat below the original surface of the ground, were found between thirty and thirty-five skulls, arranged in a circle of from 5 to 6 feet in diameter, and embedded in and covered with sand, evidently brought from the lake shore, as the soil is a clay loam. These

<<<Page: 426>>>

skulls rapidly crumbled on exposure to the air, so they were returned to their resting-place, and again covered with earth. One of these skulls was cloven from the top of the head to the jaw, as though by an ax, and a lower jaw, which, though in two portions, seemed to belong to the skull, also bore witness to the force of the blow.
To Peter M. Gideon, esq., owner of the farm where the mounds are located, and superintendent of the State Experimental Fruit Farm, which adjoins it, many thanks are due for his kindness in giving information, and for assistance rendered in making the survey.
The group of mounds shown in the upper left-hand corner of the plan are, as their title shows, at Minnetonka Lake Park, and about one mile in a straight line to the northeast of the larger group. They are situated where the strip of high land between the upper and lower lakes has diminished to the narrow limits shown in the plan. About a quarter of a mile farther north it ends at a large slough, through which winds the narrow creek which connects the two lakes. These mounds have not been explored.
Iam informed that about two miles southwest of “ Gideon’s” there are about forty or fifty mounds, thrown up close together, and covering two or three acres of ground. They are not on the shores of the lake, but some distance inland.
At the west end of the “ Upper Lake,” and about seven miles from the group shown on the plan, is Mound City, a small settlement so named from the number of the mounds which are found there.
At Ferguson’s Point, about two miles north of Excelsior Village, on the east shore of the lake, is another collection of poe and at many of the prominent points
NUM NS win UR, UD 6 Nissi «
and headlands of the rm = Dc ee etc ake § r ‘ j Rr ; (AASB Uy 1) LL Yn, Mi. Ste won NE lake shore may be found | Baa Le ry NN en | in” an one ai one Or MOTE MOUNAS. FI wo wiay, V7 wow — ss TOP wi yee sine : Wirt ibs? ad, a MU. WO 49-76 Witite Other employment how| iii sig ey ae le 4 — Ene ; I be : Bist s Wr Men yy LD. WU \\\idie? Sie wt Me WZ ever, has prevented me flr wy wen sume Mj, sh from finding opportu|}. 7 ane = a Ze» LS a EC nity to visit them or Obfh Asie sume, swnZeg wir wun alien wy G
tain further information in regard to them. | Yi ; The following informai ioe a Se / Uf: Yi Z Peer” : tion, which is of rather a | ZO Ny ade a7 Y fo ok miscellaneous character, fla” 7 nr sla HY) dain: I have obtained through |). wz i ee ea the kindness of a friend, |
Ws uae SundE Wy) ayaze Ola NNAE
© ae wth? os TE
who is also a civil en(R=——= \ eee
gineer. “The Indian mounds which in a Mounds at Eden Prairie, Minn.
former letter I located at Eden Prairie, are in Bloomington Township, about twelve miles southeast of Excelsior. I give a rough sketch taken from my note-book, which will give some idea of the locality.

<<<Page: 427>>>

“These mounds, thirteen in number, are of the usual size, and are situated in what is now an open field, on a level plateau, from which the land slopes rapidly away on the south to the banks of the Minnesota River, and on the north into a deep, narrow ravine, through which flows a brook. I do not think these mounds have ever been examined in any way.”
This engineer was also engaged in the survey and subdivision of the reservation assigned to the Sisseton and Wahpeton tribes of Indians, in Dakota Territory, and in the work found the mounds to be very abundant and located some of them in the survey. The Indians, though unable to explain their origin, have a great reverence for them, and will not allow them to be disturbed if they can prevent it.
The mounds which I mention are all on or near the summit of the Dakotas, and overlooking the valley east of them. The first one noted was on the eastern edge of the hills, and was about 20 feet in diameter and 3 feet high. It had been occupied by foxes, and at the mouths of their burrows human bones were abundant. Near the corner of section 16, township 126, range 52, was a large mound 50 feet in diameter and 4 feet in height, located exactly on the top of the Dakotas, and overlooking the whole valley. A pit was sunk in the center of this, and scattered through the soil were found bones, but so thoroughly decomposed as to be but little more than deposits of lime. At the depth of 4 feet, the original surface of the ground, was struck what seemed to be a layer of Jime cement, and so hard that a couple of hours’ labor with spades only penetrated to the depth of 3 or 4 inches. At this point time failed, and the workmen were obliged to abandon their investigations.
About one and one-half miles northwest of this mound was another, 75 feet in diameter and 10 feet high, but there was no opportunity to examine it.
aluas Ali, EI ANT tte | foratl ly Wty, LS _ Wir Wiha Mite Wile wea MU/e ANIA WN, XS
a ee RY P= = AU, wMAbl/e, WE wnnadied ater, WN Tre Myvi NOW I) aed (ewe =PVA
; ps = iS CE NI NEE Se NIZAM M Asst 2 Zuniy nats = ————s Mise Whiner hte NAVAL WLS OVE HIE Mit, 8
e Sis :
2 < t SEL OY Lae Willa = £
Ud NNN Atte NAAN
Wilde NC NMEA SA MEE ONT NN ee
Wildy ANNI Z WNhadeeg NALLY NAVE N\A! NN AZO NV
Earthwork near Sisseton and Wahpeton Res., Dak. Ter.
In this vicinity they also found an earthwork, which, in its shape and good preservation, seemed to be of rather more recent origin, and to be the work of white men rather than Indians; although the military officers connected with the reservation could not account for it, as there had never been an Indian war in that vicinity. It may have been erected by some of the early pioneers or explorers. It was about 75

<<<Page: 428>>>

feet in diameter, with the entrance also protected, but’ it was almost useless for defense, as it was commanded by a hill-top about 600 feet distant, and 49 or 50 feet above it. On the other side was a belt of timber about a rifle-shot away. Within the enclosure was found a human skull with a metal arrow-head embedded in it, thus hinting at the fate of its builders. I give a rough sketch of the locality.
Around Lake Minnetonka arrow-heads and other implements are sometimes found. I was shown a stone hammer this summer, but was unable to obtain it. It was made of an egg-shaped quartzose pebble, was 44 inches long, 34 in diameter, and would weigh about four pounds. £ It hada deep groove around it, probably to bind it to £7 its handle. gy
I also examined the skull, probably: 0. an Indian, & which was found while excavating for a street in the city of Minneapolis. There were three or four bodies Rhone een close together, which had evidently been buried for a tonka. long time. The appearance of the teeth showed it to be that of a person in the prime of life. It measured in circumference 21 inches, and from ear to ear, over the top of the head 124 inches.

<<<Page: 429>>>

By Otis T. Mason.
The following report isa collection of abstracts from the replies made by archeologists in various parts of our country previously to 1880, in answer to Circular No. 316. Allusions to collections of fine specimens are purposely omitted.
The readiness with which many have responded to the cireular is a good omen for the future. It is designed, at some future time, to prepare an exhaustive work upon our North American antiquities. This, however, cannot be done until every township is heard from, and the antiquities of those which contain remains accurately described.
If in the present summary any incorrect statements occur, or if the authors wish to make more extended observations, it is hoped that all interested in the subject will keep the Institution posted upon the very latest results of exploration.
It may be that, in this first effort to epitomize the labors of many correspondents, the names of some are omitted. If such be the case, they are invited to let the Institution know of it, and the correction will be
made. OREGON AND THE NORTHWEST COAST.
EELLS, M.—The Twana Indians have a tradition that the agate arrowheads found about here were made by the wolf before he degenerated into his present form.
FELSERTHAL, L.—Is collecting facts and traditions relating to the use of shells by the Nez Percés and Klikatats, Pelouses, Spokanes, and Columbia River tribes, Oregon. The writer describes a shell used by the Indians to ward off the “evil eye,”.and to keep them from being made sick by their ‘‘ medicine men.”
SwAn, J. G.—Is collecting photographs of the Indians of Queen Charlotte’s Islands with a view to studying the tattoo marks. On shaving a young chief of the Clyokwat tribe, near Nootka, he observed the close resemblance of some of the marks to Habel’s drawings. The bird of the sun devouring a human victim is the Thukloots, or Thunder Bird, of all the coast Indians, and the only difference is that Thukloots devours whales. The coast Indians serve their enemies as the priest is serving his victims in Habel’s plate I. They do not scalp their enemies, as do the Indians of the plains.
BARTON, STEPHEN.—No large remains are found in Tulare County. The only earthworks are small ditches and cavities such as are now used

<<<Page: 430>>>

by Indian doctors for the erection of “sweat-houses.” The tribes now here seem to have been the true aborigines and claim to have sprung from the adjacent hills. Rock paintings are found in abundance. One on the north bank of Kaweah River, eighteen miles northeast of Visalia, contains pictures of fishes, owls, and rabbits. The paint is about the color of red lead and very durable. The natives bury their dead in cemeteries, the graves grouped by families. The body is folded in a sitting . posture with the head between the knees. After burial the ground is leveled off, and small stones which the family can identify mark the grave. Large pots or basins have been found carved in granite rock, from 1 to 3 feet deep, and from 5 to 8 feet in diameter, holding from one to ten barrels of water each. They are thought by some to have been used in the same manner as the trapiche of Chili, for grinding ore. The exact locality of the most noted group of these pots is forty-five miles east of Visalia, three miles north of the east fork of the Kaweah River, and near the head of a creek called Lake Canyon.
BRAYTON, G. M.—Gives information of old ruins five miles north of Camp Verde, Arizona, on a point of rock 50 feet high and 300 feet from the Rio Verde. j
CooPER, J. G.—Describes cave in Kern County, California.
McALLISTER, A. A.—Mentions a shell mound in Berkeley, Alameda County, California, on the block bounded by Second and Third, and University and Bristol streets.
Poston, C. D.—Correspondence with reference to the preservation of the Casa Grande in Arizona.
YATES, L. G.—Describes crania from mounds in Alameda County, California.
ALDRICH, CHARLES.— Describes pottery pipe, from ruins on San Juan River, New Mexico.
DELLENBAUGH, I’. 8.—Remarks that many hundreds of groups of picture-writings are to be seen on the rocks in Southern Utah, Nevada, and Arizona.
Meas, General M. C.—Describes stone mound on the summit of a pass through a range of mountains two or three miles east of Mohave stage station, on the Gila River, Arizona, sixty or seventy miles above Yuma. Itis of rough heaped stones, 12 feet long, 6 feet wide, rudely resembling a tortoise, with smaller mounds resembling the head and neck, legs and feet, and tail. There are many mounds in Arizona; one on the Pinal Mountains gives evidence of extensive buildings divided | into numerous departments, around which may still be found broken pottery and stone implements.
METCALF, HENRY.—Long correspondence from, concerning cave near Silver City, New Mexico.
OLMSTED, FRANK.—Mounds on Fort Cameron United States military reservation, township 29 south, range 7 west, Salt Lake meridian,

<<<Page: 431>>>

Utah. The most important system is in Parowon Valley, fifty miles south of Fort Cameron, township 35 south, range 12 west.
PHASE, W. B.—Speaks of a cave in southwestern part of New Mexico; same mentioned as belonging to Mr. Metcalf.
Pork, GEORGE.—Inscription on rock in Provo Cation, Utah, described.
ALLEN, C. P.—States that no remains whatever have been found near Red Lake, Beltrami County, Minnesota.
Bowvisu, W. M.—Reports having opened graves in Houston County, Minnesota, but they are evidently quite modern.
BRUNER, LAWRENCE.—Many mounds are scattered all through the country between the town of Norfolk and the Verdigris country in Nebraska, situated on the level bottom lands close to the bluffs and invariably near the mouth of a ravine running into the bluffs. They vary from 30 to 100 feet in diameter, 3 to 8 feet high, and are covered with vegetation.
BUNNELL, L. H.—Reports a number of mounds on Maggie Burns’s farm, Winona County, Minnesota, and in nearly ali the larger valleys. At the fertile points adjacent to water a few may be seen. There are no mounds in and about Homer, but shellheaps are found. The mussels were brought out of the Mississippi River by muskrats for their winter food. Opposite Homer, in Wisconsin, a large area is covered with mounds and earthworks. At La Moille there are several small mounds, and a number on CedarCreek. On Money Creek they are quite numerous, and on Pine Creek they are to be seen at intervals all the way down from Lilly’s, New Hartford, toLaCrescent. Thelargestmounds, a group of ten near Homer, are ten miles below La Crosse, at the mouth of Coon Creek Valley. The Winnebagos here have lost all tradition even of the use of stone arrowheads by their ancestors. White Snake, a chief of the tribe, said in all sincerity that they were not made by the Indians.
CLARK, MARTIN.—No ancient earthworks are at present known in Clay County, Nebraska.
Cramy, T. G.—Quite a number of mounds occur in Meeker County, Minnesota, near Litchfield.
Hurxibvut, W. D.—No archeological remains have been found in Olmsted County, Minnesota.
Morey, C. A.—The region around Winona, in the county of the same name, Minnesota, is rich in aboriginal remains.
WILLIAMS, I’. G.—Large stone hammers in Minnesota were hafted by means of an elastic sapling to grind food.
ALLIS, SAMUEL.—Lodge cavities are frequently found on bluffs of the Mississippi River, MillsCounty. The usual mode of burial is todig a large hole in the ground projecting under at the bottom similar to their corn

<<<Page: 432>>>

SUMMARY OF CORRESPONDENCE. Ast
caches. The dead are wrapped in a robe or blanket, placed in the niche in a sitting posture, with implements and ornaments. Sticks are stuck crosswise at the mouth of the cave, covered up, and the earth heaped in a small mound. The burials are in groups on high bluffs. The women weep daily at the graves for about six months. Once Mr. Allis witnessed the burial of a distinguished woman, the wife of a French trader. Something to eat and a bottle of whisky were deposited in the grave. Her favorite horse was choked to death and the tail hung over the mound.
Banta, W. V.—Furnishes a brief report on mounds in Henry County, Iowa. Further information desired by the Smithsonian Institution.
BASSETT, LESLIE.—Describes stone and copper implements from Keokuk County.
BEAMAN, D. C.—Explored mounds on the Des Moines River, near Keosauqua, Van Buren County. Account published in Ottumwa Democrat. None sent to Smithsonian Institution.
CANDEE, EF. C.—Describes copper implements from one of a group of mounds on the farm of P. Hass, two miles west of Grandview.
Davis, HENRY, and W. A. MACDONALD.—Explored mounds in Clayton County, on high bluff, overlooking Mississippi River, 350 feet above the water, opposite Prairie du Chien, on land of Girard Land Company. On another bluff, one-fourth mile south, are two circular mounds 25 feet in diameter, 4 feet high; and 70 feet back of them is still another mound. All were evidently for lookouts, as there were no relics in them.
EVANS, SAMUEL B., Ottwmwa.—Sends notes of works in sections 2 and 3, township 68 north, range 10 west, fifth principal meridian, near Keosauqua, Van Buren County. Locations, course, and distance approximated.
No. 1. Shell heaps and pottery.—On south bank of Des Moines River, in northeast quarter of southeast quarter section 3, 20 rods north, 55° west, from mouth of Ely’s Creek, 20 feet above river bed, 40 feet from water’s edge. Found mussel shells in large quantities, pieces of pottery, arrow-heads, bones, part of jaw, teeth, leg and foot bones, &c.; fair degree of preservation. Two feet from mound surface generally.
No. 2. Mound.—In northeast quarter of southeast quarter section 3, south bank of river, 10 rods north, 60° west from No. 1, on bluff point 100 feet above river bed, 200 feet from water’s edge; timber, large white oak, young jack oak. Found human skull entire (except lower jaw), part of an upper jaw, and one tooth; bones of the leg, &c. Position, two feet from mound surface; head southeast; burial horizontal. Also same pottery as in No. 1. ?
No. 3. Half-moon shaped mound.—Fifteen rods north, 55° west, from No. 2, on same bluff, 120 feet above river bed, 200 feet from water’s edge. Found thigh bones.
No. 4. Mound.—Fifteen rods north, 45° west, from No. 3. No discoveries except small piece of crockery, probably modern.
No. 5. Large mound.—Fifty feet in diameter, 5 feet high, in north-

<<<Page: 433>>>

west quarter of southwest quarter section 2, 30 rods south, 45° degrees east, from mouth of Ely’s Creek, on high bluff point 100 feet above river bed, 20 rods from water’s edge. Decayed white oak stump, 24 inches in diameter, on mound, 12 feet north, 10° west, from center; decayed oak stump, 16 inches in diameter, on mound 4 feet north from center. Found thigh bones (human) under south side of 24-inch stump, 5 feet from surface of mound; also shells asin No.1; also upper arm bone; position of thigh bones, horizontal; head west; lower leg bone doubled under.
KETTERMAN, W. H.—Wapello County. Mounds, township 72, range 13 west, on a line almost north and south through the county, on highest bluffs, from 75 to 100 feet in diameter, and 4 to 5 feet high.
MANSFIELD, J. M.—There are mounds in Henry County, near Mount Pleasant, but no report has ever been made on them.
Witter, F. M.—Describes mound in prairie, 40 rods from bluff of Iowa River, in Toolesboro, Muscatine County, 100 feet long, 40 feet wide. Copper implements and bones found. Promises map of Muscatine County in the name of the Academy of Sciences.
BALLOU, W. H.—Reports progress upon a complete report of the mound-builders of Mississippi County, Missouri.
Buacu, J. W.—On northwest quarter section 32, township 57, range 35, Buchanan County, 14 miles south of Saint Joseph, at King Hill, are earthworks on a high bald point, facing the Missouri River, partly obliterated by weathering. The dead were buried very closely together, at length, on the back, east and west, not deep. A plot of the ground promised.
BLACK, J. W.—Surveyed an earthwork in Lawrence County, Missouri.
DRAKE, I. S.—There are ancient mounds near Mount Vernon, Lawrence County, Missouri.
DunLAp, J. N.—Mounds and earthworks are common in Saline County, Missouri, crowning almost every hill along Missouri River, isojated and in groups ; fortification four miles southwest of Miami, on summit of a ridge which terminates in one of the so-called Pinnacles. The following account is from the Miami Index, Saline County, Missouri :
‘Tt crowns the summit of a ridge which terminates in one of the socalled ‘ Pinnacles’ of this region. There is a double ditch and double embankment, embracing an oval area of 15 acres, and also a secondary ditch and embankment adjoining of the west, with an area of perhaps 8 or 10 acres. The ditch is now, after the lapse of centuries, in many places 5 or 6 feet deep. Our reason for using the word centuries is the fact that in the ditch we found stumps of black-oak trees recently felled, measuring from 45 to 50 inches in diameter, and a growing tree that could not be encireled by the extended arms of two large men.
“The approaches of the elevation on which this fortification is situated are exceedingly steep.

<<<Page: 434>>>

“At the base of the pinnacle in which the ridge terminates is a spring which we are informed is subject to periodical ebbs and flows; its basin when seen by us was probably 20 feet in diameter. We think that the water was designed to be protected by the fortification. About one fourth of a mile south of ‘the old fort’ was evidently an old battle-ground, as shown by a large quantity of crumbling bones which are turned up by the plow, together with arrow-heads, stone axes, pikes, and other Indian equipage. There is also found much pottery of a peculiar sort, being made of shells, comminuted and mingled with clay without being subjected to fire.”
NEWLON, W. 8.—On Shoal Creek, in Jasper County, Missouri, at Reddin’s water-mill, are twenty or thirty mounds on each side of the stream. Shoal Creek is a branch of Spring River, flowing through Kansas and Missouri lead mines.
Sprviss, E. F.—There are a number of mounds near Wyandotte, Kans., of which a map is in preparation. A workshop one acre in extent and covered with chips and sherds is reported.
Sm1TuH, Q. C.—Several mounds occur in Stoddard County, Missouri, about 14 miles south of Bloomfield, near the road leading to West Prairie, unexplored.
STEPHENS, J. L.—ound three mounds in northeast portion of Boone County, Missouri, on east bank of Cedar Creek, ten miles below the head of the stream; also three mounds two miles southwest of Columbus, on the south bank of Hickson Creek. A single mound one mile southwest of the first-named group is located on a high point.
WATKINS, J. C.—Reports mounds on bluifs of Mississippi, near Ash-
ley, Pike County, Missouri. ARKANSAS.
Boyp, ©. H.—Examined mounds at the mouth of Saint Francis:
River, Phillips County.
BUCHANAN, 8S. H.—Reports mound near Galley Rock, on Arkansas River. There are round mounds on Stuart farm, near Washington, Hempstead County, and a similar one on Little Missouri River, in Nevada County, near Prescott, 50 to 75 feet diameter, 20 feet high. |
CHASE, JoHN R.—Reports many large mounds in Crittenden County.
GREENE, Ep.—Found rock inscriptions in Johnson County.
JAMES, JI’, L.—The makers of vases in Arkansas used gourds as molds. Drawings of gourd-shaped vessels given.
McCormick, EH. G.—Reports a stone image from Evansville, Washington County.
WARNICK, J. R.—Small mounds are found in abundance in Lawrence
County. WISCONSIN. :
BrAcH, H.—Describes a mass of obsidian dug from mound in Wyalusing, Grant County, together with 12 large shell beads. The whole S. Mis. 5428

<<<Page: 435>>>

valley of the Mississippi around Prairie du Chien, and for miles up and down the river, is full of the remains of an ancient population, and it would take months of labor to give a description of the mounds and earthworks. Nearly all examined were burial mounds. One opened contained remains of about a dozen persons whose bodies had been burned.
DUNLAP, SEYMouR.— Reports copper implements in Walworth County.
HENRY, WILLIAM T.—Found many mounds in Iowa County.
Lewis, C. H.—Desceribes four groups of mounds near Mount Vernon, Dane County; also several workshops. There is a group of mounds, four in number, on section 15, in Springdale Township, 50 feet base diameter, 6 feet high, 50 feet apart, extending east and west, commencing at a distance of 50 feet from the most eastern and extending in a direct line eastward, is a long low ridge, 100 feet in length, 4 feet high, and 6 feet wide.
Marvin, D. 8.—Reports Earthwork near Watertown, in the forks of two small streams, four or five miles from the village.
Parks, WARHAM.—Examined mounds near Oconomowoc, Waukesha County; one evidently a lookout, the other in shape of a swan, 20 feet in length. ‘They are one mile apart, near the banks of Washotah Lakes, and in one of the most beautiful spots in Waukesha County. Al through the county occur cemeteries.
ANDERSON, ABEL.—Numerous mounds are found in Muskegon and adjoining counties, but few have been explored. There are three mounds located on the north bank of Grand River, about 20 rods east of the ‘Chicago and Michigan Lake Shore Railroad. They form a semicircle, and are about two rods apart. The two largest were excavated. Upper layer sand, then clay taken from the river bottoms, then vegetable mold overlying the bones. Six skeletons were found, and with them copper hatchets and awls, large plates of mica, shells, pipes, and pottery. A jarge mound in the town of Bridgeton, Newaygo County, lies near the county line. On the banks of Muskegon River, southwest corner of Newaygo County, are a number of mounds.
BARNES, CHARLES E.—The works of the mound-builders are meager in Calhoun County. Further information promised.
BRADY, SAMUEL.—Is making explorations of mines at Minong, Isle Royale.
Day, Jonw E.— Has in preparation, a paper on the forts and mounds of Macomb County.
FOw LER, S. W.—There are no earthworks in Manistee County. Shell heaps are found near mouth of Manistee River. Mounds are common. Several are at the west of Bear Lake; one on Sauble River, two miles south of Manistee Lake.
HUBBARD, Lucius.—Three mounds are in southwest quarter section

<<<Page: 436>>>

17, range 18 west, near Indiana State line, Berrien County, from 20 to 50 feet across.
JENISON, O. A.—Sends drawings of Michigan relics, accompanied with descriptions.
JONES, JOSHUA.—Describes mound in Livingston County, three miles from Howell, on west bank of Shiawassee River, 40 to 50 feet base diameter. Five skeletons were found in the mound.
STOCKWELL, G. A.—Has traced out a triple series of mounds along the lake shore, five miles above Fort Gratiot; map in preparation.
ApAMs, W. H.—Describes examination and excavation of mounds, Peoria County.
ANDREWS, S. J. M.—Mounds in Effingham County extend over twenty miles on either side of the Wabash. They vary in height from 2 to 15 feet. Large trees are growing on them. The bones are sometimes charred, and frequently animal bones are found with them.
ARTES, C. F.—Images, pottery, and stone implements occur in Vandenburg County. A skull found with one of the images.
ATKINSON, CHARLES.—Carved image found in Adams County in a mound. Mounds in Calhoun County. Further information desired for the Smithsonian Institution.
Conty, J. D.—Describes shoe-shaped stone and cemetery in Macoupin County. Promises map of the mound in that region.
Foster, A.—Reports numerous mounds in Cass, Schuyler, and adjoining counties. One mound, 25 or 30 feet high, covering nearly an acre, from the apex of which a view can be had of parts of five counties. Within the limit described every form of mound relics is obtained. Cache of chipped implements on the land of Mr. George Trauman, containing two barrels of specimens.
FrrencH, G. H.—Mentions stone fort near Carbondale, Jackson County.
GETTENS, W. H.—Shell beds occur near Hamilton, Hancock County ; also a number of mounds.
Gray, W. B. D.—Lake County is very rich in aboriginal remains. In the northern and northwestern portions, in the lake regions, are many mounds. One examined contained fifteen skeletons in a circle, face downwards, heads to the center. There are several trails passing through the county from the Lake Superior region. One fortification, not located, 200 feet on each side.
HENDERSON, J. G.—Antiquities of many new and beautiful forms of stone implements described.
Hirt, D.—Quite a deposit of hornstone disks was discovered on the south end of the east half of the northeast quarter section 29, township 33 north, range 5 east of third principal meridian, about three miles southeast of the town of Marseilles, about the same dis-

<<<Page: 437>>>

tance west of the town of Seneca, La Salle County, and very close to the bluff bordering the Illinois River. The bottom is very wide at this point, and so high as never to overflow. There were 65 found in the center of a pond on the south side of the river, which ranged in size from about 2 inches wide by 23 inches long to about 3 inches wide by 4 long, and were manufactured undoubtedly from nodules, as they show the circles plainly, similar to fortification agates, and were most likely made and used for the same purpose as those described by J. F. Snyder, M. D., in the Smithsonian Report for 1876, that were found near Frederiekville and at Beardstown, in this State. They were probably placed in this pond for safe keeping or as a place of concealment, as it was a number of years ago running water, fed by a large spring ‘or springs. It is now drained, and in digging the ditch to the center of it these disks were found two feet below what is now the surface, in a pile, as though they had been placed there. The proprietor, Mr. Osborn, thinks they were being transported in a canoe, which was capsized at this point.
HouLBrook, W. C.—Is preparing map of all the groups of mounds and earthworks along Rock River and its tributaries in Whitesides County.
KILiAN, Ep. A.—States that there are near Edwardsville, Madison County, remains of many ancient earthworks, of which an investigation will be made.
Locks, W. M.—Wabash bottom, White County, is full of mounds; Mr. Locke has opened many, but in the low bottoms they are poor in relics. In arow of seven opened nothing was found.
McADAMS, WILLIAM.—Caverns exist about the Grand Pass, Greene County.
McCLeELLAnpD, M. A.—There are but few mounds within the limits of Crawford County. In Scott Township, Vanderburg County, Indiana, is a group of five or six mounds, and near by a conical pit, from which they were probably constructed. Northeast, about half a mile, occur two other mounds, much larger.
OnG, J. L.—Several mounds in the vicinity of Coulterville.
PARTRIDGE, H. E.—Lake County abounds in mounds, mostly cireular, solitary and in groups.
RoGcERsS, O. P.—Mounds are found near Clintonville (South Elgin), forty in number, near bank of Fox River, four miles below Elgin City, Kane County. Survey and plots are promised.
SCHNECK, J.—Wabash County is rich in mounds, Indian towns, &e. Mr. Schneck is preparing a map of the county.
SHALLENBERGER, J. M.—A group of fifteen mounds occurs east of Cambridge, not surveyed.
SIBLEY, H. F.—Two deposits of disks were found in Wayne County, one in White County, and one in Jefferson. The first contained 37, the second 46 specimens. Examined a group of fifteen mounds in Massillon Township, on west side of the river, on a high bluff. Seven mounds in Barnhill Township, just east of Fairfield, Wayne County.

<<<Page: 438>>>

Examined one, which contained nothing but charcoal. The mound in Big Mound Township, three miles from Fairfield, is the largest one on the prairie. It is supposed to have been a natural mound, shaped up and finished by the mound-builders. It contains many graves, and several bodies seem to have been placed in one grave. The graves are stone cists, made of slabs brought seven or eight miles, from Skillet Fork. Two trees growing on the mound, one a catalpa, the other an oak, were probably planted there. The other mounds in the same township are also large. They are in the bottoms. One contained human remains, mixed with river shells, deer horns, wolf jaws, &ce., united with charcoal and small stones. Group of mounds in Four-mile Township are near Skillet Fork; two explored contained remains and bright-red pottery. These sonnel are on Fleming’s Ridge, above the overtlow. Just below is the best ford on the river. A more accurate description, with map, is in preparation.
Smiru, H. K.—There are many mounds and earthworks near Clear Creek, Putnam County, between Hennepin and Peoria. They are in groups of five to eight, running parallel with the river, from one-quarter to one-half an acre in extent, and 5 to 12 feet high. Further explorations in progress.
TanDY, MARK.—Mounds occur in Hancock and Henderson Counties. Part of them are close to the Mississippi River, mostly on bottom lands or flats, but some are on high bluffs or eminenees. Quite.a number are along Camp Creek. They are generally formed of loam; a few of shellrock. One mound examined was composed of loam the first 2 feet, the rest was sand; no bones, but charcoal mingled with flint chips. A stone mound, one mile below Dallas, made of very large flat rocks, was examined; bones, teeth, and stone relies found.
TOWNSHEND, R. W.—Mound explored in the northern part of Clay County, two miles south of Effingham County line, on Little Wabash River.
TROUSLOT, R. B.—Describes two mounds, five miles from Plano, Ken-
dall Cora, ten miles south of Post Mills, five miles from Seer. See the “History of Kendall County,” published at Aurora, by Rev. E. W. Hicks.
WALLACE, 8. J.—Three mounds occur two miles northwest of Carthage, Hancock County, section 11, 5 north, 7 west. One 30 feet base diameter, 30 inches high; the Bidacd trier in dimensions; the third larger, unexplored. A group on Mississippi River, same county, near Pontoosue, and others on bluff between Nauvoo and Montebello. Mr. Wallace sends many drawings of flint implements.
Wuitnry, L.—Describes ancient burial-ground within the limits of Morris, Grundy County. A cedar pole still standing on one of the streets, protected by an iron railing, marks the spot.
Wiicox, P. W.—Will carefully prepare diagrams and measurements of mounds in La Salle County.

<<<Page: 439>>>

Witter, F. M.—Mounds occur on both sides of Mississippi River, from near New Buttalo, Lowa, and opposite in Illinois, to Toolsborough, in Lowa, and New Boston, in Illinois. Topographical survey in progress.
ARTES, ©. F.—Opened burial mound near Evansville. Two burials, one above the other, at length; crania preserved.
Irwin, J. W.—Has surveyed and promises sketches of groups of works on White River, on the east and west forks of White River, and several in the valley of the Great Miami not hitherto described.
HOLLAND, JoSHUA.—Is making survey of mounds and inclosure near New Castle.
Lone, T. P.—Mentions extensive remains near Terre Haute, running through Sullivan and the southern part of Vigo Couuties, and on the opposite side of the Wabash, in Clark County, Hlinois, and thence down the river for many miles.
ReERick, JoHN H.—Describes village of Pottawatomies named Mongoquinong, formerly at Lima, in Lagrange County. There are but few traces of the mound-builders. One mound, 50 feet base diameter, 2 feet high, near Brushy Prairie post-office. Human remains, potsherds, and flint implements abound.
Stinson, FLoyp.—Is preparing map of Henderson, Daviess, and Hancock Counties, Kentucky, and Posey, Vanderburg, Warwick, and Spencer, in imine
QuICcK, EDGAR R.—Describes group of mounds on land of H. ae one anda halt miles south of Brookville, Franklin County. Earthwork ite ee wiles north of Brookville, on hill 350 feet high, jutting out on west bank of east fork of White Water River. wreunale nearly all on prominent points.
Brant, B. K.—Reports investigations of mounds in Butler County.
CRIDER, I. E.—Is making a complete survey of all mounds, earthworks, &c., in Hamilton County, numbering about 200.
KLLENBERGER, D.—Mentions ruins of old block-house near Wooster, Wayne County, described in letter of December 6, 1879.
GREEN, S. C.—Sends description and drawings of stone implements in Morgan County.
Hint, F. C.—Mentions three mound localities in Greene County : Xenia, or more properly Tawawa Springs, four miles north of Xenia; Cedarville, in the township of the same name; and Miami ‘Township.
HEMPSLEAD, G. 8. B.—Sends interesting correspondence concerning the Portsmouth work, accompanied by a new survey of the works.
Hini, H. H.—Gives description of Sixth and Mound streets mound, Cincinnati.
Kire, J. L.—Describes flint deposits, 30 acres in extent, southwest section of Smith Township, Manning County, which have been largely

<<<Page: 440>>>

worked. Several excavations were found 15 to 20 feet across and 10 to 12 feet deep. Deposit about 1 foot thick; land around strewn with fragments.
MacLEAN, J. P.—Author of a work on the antiquity of man, and a series of articles on the Star in the West. Is preparing a full account of the earthworks, &ce., in Butler County.
Murrz, C. L.—At the junction of the two branches of the Duck Creek, near Red Bank Station, in the vicinity of Madisonville, a kind of oven was uncovered; that is, two parallel lines of stone set on edge and covered over with large, flat limestones, all showing eftect of fire. In section 11, Columbia Township, west of the railroad, is a precipitous range of hills, along the face of which is an ancient roadway extending from the creek to the top of the range, 600 yards long, 4 to 10 feet wide. Has in preparation a chart of Anderson Township, where mounds and works abound.
MILLER, R.—Describes mound three-quarters of a mile north of West Farmington, Trumbull County ; 100 feet base diameter, 20 feet high, on a ridge 80 feet above surrounding country.
Morrow, JostAH.—There is another ancient work (beside Fort Ancient) in Warren County, on the west bank of Little Miami River, containing 15 or 20 acres, of which no description has ever been published. Tt is situated at Foster’s Crossings, in Warren County. The most remarkable feature is the fact that the walls were constructed of baked earth. Wherever excavations have been made, or trees uprooted, the clay is very red and bears evidences of fire. This occurrence of burnt clay is confined to the inclosing bank. The work is on the top of the river hill.
PEASE, A. P. L.—Gives minute description of stone implements from near Hamiiton.
Pocock, E. D.—There are several mounds near Shreve, Wayne County, which will be mapped and described for the Smithsonian Institution.
tANDOLPH, T. C.—No mounds or earthworks occur in Columbiana County, but stone implements abound.
READ, M. C.—Describes rock shelters, three miles west of Hudson Village, Summit County. Accumulation of 4 to 5 feet of ashes mixed with burnt soil, fragments of bone, stone implements, &c. The bones represent nearly all the native mammalia. The shaft bones and larger jawbones were all broken. The pottery is of two kinds, one thin, the other very thick, and all mixed with powdered quartz. The stone implements, drawings of which accompany the letters, were mostly rude. My. Read will prepare a monograph upon these shelters. The author also mentions a cache of 200 black chert disks found on the land of Mr. M. Graham, in Summit County, and draws attention to a’speculation published by him in the American Antiquarian, to the effect that these enigmatical

<<<Page: 441>>>

disks are a step in the division of labor in arrow-making. At a meeting of the State Archxological Society at Wooster, September 5, 1878, Professor Read was appointed to co-operate with the Smithsonian Institution in preparing the ethnological and archeological history of Ohio.
Ross, A. C., and Col. W. H. BALL.—Flint Ridge lies in Licking and Muskingum Counties, about three miles southeastward from Newark, and twelve to fifteen miles west-northwest from Zanesville. It extends eight miles southwest by northeast, and is from one-fourth of a mile to one mile wide. The ridge is cut by hollows, ravines, and gorges. Portions of the highest land are comparatively level, and this plateau is underlaid by a stratum of flint rock from 15 inches to 3 feet in thickness. Besides this stratum are numerous flint bowlders standing up— several feet above the surface of the ground. On the exact level of the flint are the “ diggings,” hundreds of which may be seen, which range in depth-from 1 or 2 to 30 feet, their depth depending upon the relation of the flint stratum to the surface of the earth. The very deep diggings are from the top of a hillock on the summit of the ridge. The trenches are from a few feet to 30 feet across at the top, all sloping so gradually that it would be easy to walk downthem. From the deeper cuts the earth appeared to have been carried out; the one from the top of the hillock is still very deep, and was about 40 feet in perpendicular when completed, with proportional width. In one portion was a drift 60 to 80 feet in length, 6 to 8 feet wide, and 4 to 5 feet high. The excavation was pursued with the same diligence when there was no flint as when the stratum was found, and was of the same character, to the same level. Of course, when the earth is below the flint level there is no evidence of digging, but when the earth is above that level the work extends to the flint. These works follow the dip of the flint towards the east-northeast until the hills became too high above the stratum. In a meadow, and near a stream of water, on land very much lower than the ridge, occurred a bed of crumbled flint and sandstone. This bed was about 14 inches in depth, 7 feet across, and 15 to 18 feet in length. The sandstone was near the north part and had been subject to great heat. A quantity of ashes was mixed through the whole bed. Several such beds are reported in that vicinity, and were generally near water. No arrow-heads or other objects made of flint occurred. Old, gnarly, full-grown oaks, some of them three hundred years old, have sprouted and grown since these excavations were made. There has not been any signs of a workshop discovered in the last sixty years, but at the point usually sought by visitors and curiosity hunters flint spalls cover the ground for acres. Only one arrow-head has been found there for years.
WILKINSON, E., Jr.—Sends notice of a fortification near Mansfield, Richland County; survey in preparation.
Wiurners, C. T.—Tablets of burnt clay were found on farm of W. Morrow, near Piqua.

<<<Page: 442>>>

CAMPBELL, 8S. M.—Describes mounds on Meadow River, a tributary of the Gauley, eight in number, 20 feet in diameter, nearly plowed down.
Lacy, Tt. H.—Mentions mounds in Mason County.
MARSHALL, I’. M.—Mounds occur in Gilmer County, near Glenville.
Nutter, l.—Explored graves near Worthington.
Pace, W. N.—Discovered wall in Fayette County, near Chesapeake and inc Railroad, between Loup and Armstrong Creeks, one mile from their contluence with the Great Kanawha.
FRIEL, Jos.—A mound is located five miles east of Bennettsville, Breckinridge County, and, near by, is a rock-shelter. Mz. Friel sends description of stone implement of his county.
Harris, 8. A.—There are in the eastern portion of Kentucky several earthworks and other aboriginal remains which have not been investigated.
LAMPTON, W. J. SoCs occur in the corporate limits of Ashland, Boyd Goan
MIDDLETON, G. B.—Mentions ancient wall in La eae County, on one of the bluffs of the R olling Fork River, northeastern portion of the county, seven miles from Hodgensville, and five miles from Buffalo. It is 452 feet long, and extends northeasterly from cliff to cliff. Its southwest end rests upon the solid rock of a ravine just above a cliff 20 feet high. A small stream pours over this precipice. The wall is approachable only from the northwest. About 270 feet behind the wall are three pits parallel with it, now 5 feet deep, 20 feet apart. Just behind the two smaller pits, 6 feet diameter, 3 feet deep, appearing to have been walled up. A mound of flint is near these smaller pits. The ruins are now from 3 to 5 feet high, and from 17 to 20 feet wide. See Collins’s History of Kentucky, under Lake County.
Mumrorp, kh. 8.—Mounds and relics were found near Rowleti’s Station, Hart County.
BAILey, W. B. I’.—Several mounds occur near Chattanooga.
CLARKE, W. M.—Describes a mound near Franklin, Williamson County. At the bottom, 22 feet below the top, a circle of flints was found with the points to the center, and around these was another circle of twenty-five shells (busycon carica) with the large ends out.
RICHIE, It. W.—Explored a mound in Hardin County; mica, burned earth, skull inclosed.
ROESSLER, A. R.—Speaks of a mound near Big Creek, Cocke County, 60 feet base diameter, 5 feet high. Near the center, 3 feet from the top, a skull was lying, face upward, top eastward. Near by, another was found lying on left side, face southeast, other bones lay at random. Lower down, two more crania. No arm or leg bones. Surface covered with pottery shards, flint chips, &e.

<<<Page: 443>>>

BippLE, HENRY J.—Describes mound on Saint John’s River, Florida, four miles below Palatka; the most northern mound on the river, except one; 200 feet long, 40 feet wide, 10 feet high.
Bomar, THOMAS H.—Spartanburg County, South Carolina, is singularly barren of any vestiges of prehistoric man.
Bracut, V.—Aransas County, Texas, reports that there are no antiquities on Live Oak Peninsula, but many mounds and graves near Salt Creek, on Hynes Bay, where the Carancahua Indians formerly dwelt.
CADLE, C.—On the eastern shore of Mobile Bay, Alabama, one mile from Point Clear, are banks of shells, 10 to 30 feet wide, 1 to 3 feet thick, and one-quarter mile in length. On this bank are two annular elevations of shells 2 feet above the surface and 60 feet in diameter. There are other shell banks in the vicinity.
FLoyp, HENRY.—Unexplored mounds occur on Ouachita River, Louisjana, on Mississippi and Yazoo Rivers, in Warren County, Mississippi, and on Deer Creek, in Sharkey County. They are situated on streams, near springs. They are in groups of threes, oval in shape, or nearly circular, flat on the top, the largest occupying over an acre.
CLARKE, 8. C.—On the Halifax and Hillsborough Rivers, in Volusia County, Flerida, are great numbers of shell heaps, almost every important bluff and landing place being thus occupied. Although called “rivers,” these stretches of salt water are more properly sounds or bays, being shallow expanses, separated from the sea by narrow beaches of sand. Some of these mounds have been described; turtle mound, for instance, on Musquito Lagoon, by Dr. Brinton, of Philadelphia. There is one of these shell heaps on the Halifax River, near the inlet, which differs in form from any other that he has seen, being in the form of a cireular bowl, the walls of which are perhaps 20 feet in height, and the inclosed space from 50 to 100 feet in diameter. The mound lies about 50 yards from the river, and has an opening on the river front, as if for a gate or sallyport, the whole structure giving the idea of a military work. It consists principally of oyster-shells, all of which have been separated and opened by human hands. It may be here remarked that these mounds consist either of oyster or clam shells—seldom of both. Among these oyster-shells are mingled those of conchs (Pyrula, Busycon, and Strombus) now occurring in the vicinity ; also those of the Thorny Conch (Meiongena corona), Which is at present very rare on this coast. Charcoal and the bones of small mammals and birds are found among the shells, as also many fragments of pottery, some samples of which have been sent; the whole mound is covered with a natural grove of wild orange trees. Flint arrow-heads have been found here also, which must have been brought from a considerable distance, the nearest deposit of flint being, it is believed, in Georgia, some hundreds of miles away. In Albany, Dougherty County, Georgia, are great beds of the purest flint or hornstone, which splits easily ; and here seems to have been a great manu

<<<Page: 444>>>

factory in old times of arrow-heads, which are still found on the banks _of Flint River.
GALLOWAY, J. C.—dittle is to be found in Jefferson County, Georgia, in the way of relics, or noted landmarks. Vestiges of large cemeteries still remain, and a broad trail leading to Old Town, eight miles from Louisville, and on the eastern side of the Ogeechee. It runs east and west, is 12 or 15 feet wide, and deeply worn, resembling an old abandoned road.
GARRErT, W. M.—Three groups of mounds are in Lowndes County, Alabama. The first is in the southern part of the county, and in the southern part of township 12, range 14, on Muscle Creek, land of Mr. Fisher Merritt; all explored. The second group is on Big Swamp Creek, in the center of the county, township 14, range 14, on the Cheek plantation. The third group is in the northern part of the county, on the Alabama River, not far from Whitehall and Benton. Several “workshops” are near Mount Willing; one on Mr. Hartley’s plantation, section 36, township 18, range 13; and one on Mr. Lee’s plantation, section 32, township 13, range 14.
GESNER, WILLIAM.-—Describes mica mine and stone wall in Clay Township, Jefferson County, Alabama. In Talladega County, township 20, range 6, section 12, another mica pit. ‘ Workshop” in Lee County, Alabama, east of Youngsborough, on the Western Railroad, at the foot of Story’s Mountain, in the fields, township 19, range 27 east.
GLAsco, J. M.—There are many ancient remains, such as mounds and earthworks, in Upshur and Camp Counties, Texas. One in southeast corner of Camp County, on property of Nathan Lee, three miles east from the town of Lafayette, and a road-bed 8 feet wide and from 1 to 25 feet high leads from this to another about one mile northeast. Still another road ieads from the first named to a mound four miles off on the land of W. kt. D. Ware. This road passes through a square inclosed by a bank 18 inches high. There are twenty-five or thirty mounds on the Sarah Powel league in a group. Near a large one is a raised burnt clay floor. Anotier group is on the property of 8. P. Monyhhon, with a burnt place. They are on Walnut and Gum Creeks, tributaries of Little Cypress. A few of the mounds examined indicate a wooden pen covered with soil. Mr. Glasco also mentions rock-carvings and other interesting reinains which he has not visited.
HAxwves, HiraAmM.—Mentions an old Indian fortification on southeast quarter section 16, township 17, range 1 east, Saint Clair County, Alabama.
Harris, T. K.—Describes a mica quarry in Hall County, Georgia.
Hoxie, WALTER.—There is an Indian mound near Way’s Station, Bryan County, Georgia, and one on Saint Helena, Island. There are a number of mounds on Bryan’s Neck, lying south of the Ogeechee River and bordering on Ossabaw Sound. One or two lie near Fort McAllister, and soine on the road between Sweet Hill and Flandersville.

<<<Page: 445>>>

Jounson, H. F.—In Rankin County, Mississippi, is a ruin known as the “ Platform;” in Claiborne County the remains of a wall; and in Marion County mounds of great size. e
KUYKENDAL, JOHN C.—No mounds are near Yorkville, York County, South Carolina.
Le Baron, J. FRANCIS.—Sends map of prehistoric archeology of Eastern Florida. [A masterpiece of patience, locating 173 mounds, shell heaps, We.|
McK LeERoy, JNO. M.—Reports several mounds in Barbour County, Alabama, near Eufaula. Promises fuller examination.
MAcSwatn, L. D.—There are mounds.in Thomas County, Georgia, from which skeletons and stone implements have been taken.
PRATT, R. H.—Sends brief account of explorations in the Diego and Jenks mounds, near Saint Augustine, Fla.
QuINN, Moses.—In Whitfield County, Georgia, on Conasauga River, eight miles from the Tennessee line, isan old fort on the top of a mountain, inclosing three or four acres, encircled by a deep ditch and earth embankment. ‘
SHARP, J. M.—Describes a mound near Wyko, Morehouse Parish, Louisiana, 35 feet base diameter, 5 feet high. Anywhere one digs from base to summit bones and pottery are found. The pots are generally between the legs of the skeleton, against the pelvic bones. This mound is two miles north of Lake Lafourche. Mounds and pottery are found all about Prairie Jefferson. One on the land of Mrs. V. C. Harrison is 50 feet in base diameter and 30 feet high.
STEERUWItZ, W. H.—Artificial dug-holes are found in Harris County. Texas, twenty-eight miles from Houston, formed as follows: The rainwater stands in the depressions after the surrounding prairie is dry. The cattle and horses bring out of the bottom a portion of mud every time they go to drink. The dam on the edge is 18 to 24 inches high, depth of dug-hole 24 to 30 inches, width of dam 18 to 24 feet, size of pit about 500 yards square. [This fact, for the first time brought to the knowledge of archeologists, may be useful in the regions once roamed over by thousands of buffaloes.—O. T. M.j
STELLA, J. P.—Texas now presents the finest field for the archeologist in the United States.
Waobk, J. D.—There are several mounds in Leon County, Florida, un-
explored. NEW YORK.
ALEXANDER, J. W.—Sends stone gouge from Saint Lawrence County, with the following statement as to its use: ‘That it was used for tapping the American maple (Acer saccharinum) there can be no reasonable doubt. A comparison of one of these implements with the iron and steel gouges used by the early settlers for fixing the spout confirms the view. A piece of pine, cedar, or other soft wood was selected of the width of the cutting part of the gouge. From this block spouts were split, the

<<<Page: 446>>>

gouge being the instrument of cleavage. In this manner the concavity of the spout corresponded with that of the gouge. When the tree was tapped a box was chipped in the trunk, the gouge was driven in two or three inches below, and the spout afterward placed in the cut thus made in order to conduct the oozing sap to a bucket below.”
ALLEN, A. W.—Describes an image and stone relics from Cayuga County.
BraucuAmp, W. M.—Anextended and valuable correspondence upon the stone mplements of Onondaga County. Describes, May 5, a visit to a large aboriginal manufactory of flint implements, on the Canada side, opposite Buffalo, N. Y.; also refers to ground arrow-points and copper implements, as wellas ancient forts and palisades.
Briggs, H.—Sends newspaper clippings, Ulster County.
Byrwns, E. A.—Reports Indian cemetery, near Belfast, Allegany County.
CHAPMAN, RuFuS T.—Promises map and plan of works along the Cuyahoga River.
CLARKE, JOHN S.—Is preparing a map of New York on which will appear every position where indications exist of an Indian residence, town, or hamlet, the trails intersecting the State connecting the several towns, the Indian names of rivers, lakes, mountains, localities, &e.
CoLr, NorMAN.—Describes copper spear-head found near West Mountain, Warren County. Reports also collections of stone implements.
KELLOGG, D. 8S.—Near Plattsburg, Clinton County, on the western shore of Cumberland Bay, Lake Champlain, near mouth of Dead Creek, are mounds of sand which have been formed by the wind. Some years ago the pine trees were cut from these sand hills, and the wind entirely changed the face of these dunes. Pottery and stone implements in abundance mark this as an ancient camping ground.
Lewis, W. H.—Sends description of a large rock in North Salem, Westchester County, supported on three cone-shaped stones, resembling a dolmen.
Marvin, D. 8.—Describes mound on Black River Bay, four miles above Sacket’s Harbor.
TookEer, W. W.—Mentions fort at Montauk, Suffolk County, described in Prime’s “ History of Long Island” and in the “ Chronicles of East Hampton.”
Watkins, G. L.—Describes ancient fort located ten miles south of Auburn, two and a half miles from Scipioville.
WricHt, S. H.—In Yates County are four ancient works.. No survey has ever been made. Map in preparation.
ANDREWS, F. D.—Found workshops near Vineland, N. J. BAKER, 8. C.—Finds no vestiges of ancient occupation at Altoona, Pa.

<<<Page: 447>>>

BRUNNER, D. B.—Workshops and burial grounds occur in Berks County, Pennsylvania.
Hay, CHARLES A.—Describes aboriginal settlement near Gettysburg, Pa.
HAzzarp, T. L.—Mentions cemeteries, fort-fields, and pictured rocks near Monongahela City, Pa.
Kervey, D. K.—Explored Indian graves near West Chester, Pa.
McELWAI, R.—There are stone piles and an ancient trail near Harrisville, Butler County, Pennsylvania.
Meryerr, ABRAHAM.—Describes a quarry, or mine, and caches, Lycoming County, Pennsylvania.
Puities, D. A.—Numerous cireular forts and mounds occur near Linesville, Crawford County, Pennsylvania, mostly surrounding Pymaturing Swamp. Human remains, mica, stone implements, and evidences of fire abound.
Ruta, J. A.—Sends archeological map of Durham, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, with letter of June 3, 1879.
SHANNON, 8. G., and JOHN SWARTZELL.—Describes a burial mound near the junction of Kishacoquillas Creek with Juniata River, near Lewiston, Mifflin County, Pennsylvania.
WIDEMIRE, S.—The mound-builders appear not to have reached as far as Clearfield County, Pennsylvania.
CorrMan, J. J.—Mentions workshop near Sharpsburg, Md.
HUMPHREYS, JOHN T.—Found a cone of baked earth in a mound near Morganton, N. C. Mounds at a mill eight miles from Morganton are unexplored.
Kirx, C. R.—No mounds or works exist in Northeastern Maryland, but many stone implements. In the Susquehanna River, near Conowingo Bridge, at the mouth of the creek, is a sculptured rock.
Kron, F. C.—There is an old zigzag stone ford across the Peedee River, just below the mouth of the Moharree, in Stanley and Montgomery Counties, North Carolina.
LEAKIN, GEORGE A.—The tribe of Susquehannocks occupied the land in the vicinity of Sassafras and Elk Rivers, and they had a fort on Spesutics Island, about 1660, Refers to a paper on the Susquehannocks prepared for the Historical Society of Baltimore.
McGuire, J. D.—Describes shell heaps in Howard and Anne Arundel Counties, Maryland, and alludes to polished arrow-heads.
On a fine branch of spring-water one-fourth of a mile above Eleysville, and within 200 yards of the Patapsco River, Maryland, is a small cave, the floor of which is about 10 feet wide, and runs back 20 feet—an excellent shelter for any one; and as proof of its having been occupied, the floor is covered with ashes in places as much as 18 inches deep. A white quartz cutting tool was found here, finely chipped from a pebble, 23

<<<Page: 448>>>

inches long by 12 wide, 4 thick; a small broken rose-quartz pebble, possibly a seraper; a large piece white quartz with one sharp edge; an implement, probably, but if found elsewhere, this would have been doubtful; six small pieces of pottery, very rude, with shell mixed in the clay. Pottery in this neighborhood only found in three other places. Several small pieces of bone were discovered. This cave is about 15 feet from the branch and 5 or 6 feet above it. On the opposite side of the branch, and distant from it about 40 feet and 39 above it, is quite a shelter, perfectly dry, with surface earth to a depth of 4 or 5 inches, dusty and dark; under it is a reddish colored earth. On top of this red earth, and below the dark, a broken arrow found of the same material as the spear found opposite, a seraper 3 inches:long by 14 wide, and several piecesof bone. The stones appear to be of the character described as cave implements by Lubbock and Evans, but from their proximity to the surface they can hardly be more ancient than many of our surface finds, but they are distinctive in their features.
OFFUTT, F. M.—Near Cumberland, Md., there are several large stone mounds that have never been disturbed.
PEYTON, Miss ANNIE L.—Mentions an ancient Indian settlement, cemetery, and workshop near The Plains, Fauquier County, Virginia.
CrERRY, N.—Is working up the stone age of the Connecticut Valley through the State of Massachusetts.
CURRIER, J. M.—Gives an account of stone implements in Rutland County, Vermont.
Currine, H. A.—No ancient remains occur in Eastern Vermont. There are ‘rock sculptures near Brattleborough.
HELLsworti, C. W.—Deseribes a cache of chipped implements from East Windsor Hill, Connecticut, and sends many engravings of relies.
Frost, A. L.—No aboriginal remains are found in York County, Maine.
GORTON, CHARLES.—Describes stone implements of Connecticut. No permanent remains mentioned.
GREGORY, JAMES J. H.—In the town of Marblehead, Mass., are remains of shell-heaps, fortified villages, and a cemetery, also the vestiges of a palisaded fort, and the quarry from which most of the porphyry used in making arrow-heads, &¢., was taken.
McDaAnie., Bb. F.—In the town of Salisbury, Mass., is a line of shellheaps stretching from the Merrimac River, in a northeasterly direction, about one mile inland.
OsGoop, ALBERT.—Describes a stone structure on north bank of Merrimac River, near the bridge connecting Deer Island with Salisbury, Mass. Stones 4 to Sinches in thickness are laid without any foundation.
LICHARDSON, EH. P.—Mentions a cache of 40 chipped implements near Manchester, N. H. More information needed.

<<<Page: 449>>>

RICHARDSON, W.S.—Draws attention to an extensive earthwork near Bridgeport, Conn.
SLADE, EvisHA.—No antiquities occur in Bristol County, Massachusetts, excepting the Dighton Rock.
SPRINGFIELD REPUBLICAN (slips with no date).—Large aboriginal cemetery near Holyoke, Mass.; the dead buried in sitting posture; stone implements and even copper spear-points were found with the bones, as well as paint and strings of wampum.
TremMPLE, J. H.—Is making a complete survey of Indian remains in the town of Framingham, Mass. Reports a cache of a peck of chipped implements near that town.
THOMPSON, Miss MAny F.—No mounds occur near Brattleborough, Vt. There is a rock inscription three-fourths of a mile from B., on a rock near the mouth of West River, 100 yards southwest and 550 yards west of its junction with Connecticut River. The figures represent fishhawks or eagles, and are hammered in depth one-eighth of an inch.
TrisH, WILL1AM. C.—Mounds and graves occur two miles east of Brighton, Northumberland County, Ontario, on Presque Isle Point. Similar mounds are on the lake shore near Redeck’s farm, four miles west of the first.
JACK, J. ALLEN.—Describes stone images from New Brunswick, and sculptured slabs from St. J ohn’s, New Bruswick.
Frint, EARL.—Has discovered near Grenada, Nicaragua, a cave in which the author claims to have found inscriptions upon the walls made before the cave was filled by a tertiary deposit, which petrified after the inscriptions were made. The sandstone and sedimentary rock of the cave were formed subsequently to man’s occupation, from which is argued man’s existence in Nicaragua long before his advent in Europe, at least 180,000 years ago.

<<<Page: 450>>>

ANTHROPOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS DURING THE YEAR 1879. By OmT1s T. MASON.
The investigations of anthropologists may be divided into several classes. The first relates to the origin of the race, and this again deals with very different questions, such as, 1, the method by which the human animal made his appearance upon this planet; 2, his mental and social condition at that time ; 3, the geological epoch when this remarkable event took place; 4, the locality or localities of his first appearance.
Another class of inquiries, following closely upon the last named, re-_ lates to the oldest manifestations of culture in gravel-beds, caves, mounds, graves, and sepulchers, by means of which it is hoped to reconstruct the history of the past.
A third class of investigations has reference to the human body as it now manifests itself. Beginning with the very first germ or embryo, the biologist traces the life history of man to maturity. The anatomist and the physiologist follow up the work of the biologist and study the resemblance between the human structure and that of the lower animals.
Next comes the psychologist, comparing the mental manifestations of one race with another and of each race with those of animals. This branch of the subject has but just begun its scientific career, under the direction of such students as Galton, Bertillon, Lindsay, Maudsley, and a few others.
The fifth class of studies relates to the various races of men. Though no broad spaces separate the human groups, yet all men recognize racial differences. If all the human beings that present marked characteristics were arranged in groups, and those that nearly resemble them were placed near those to whom they bear the greatest likeness, we should have a series of irregular masses merging into one another. These would be races. The form, the extent, and the number of the groups would vary somewhat with the characteristics selected as the basis of the classification. The progess of scientific observationis bringing other portions of the body than the brain and skull into prominence as racial marks. Of the two words commonly used to designate this branch of the subject, I employ ethnology as the generic term, including ethnography, or the description of races, and all discussions with reference to the best methods of classifying mankind.
The next division of the subject is language, the basis of which is phonology; the relation of sound to sense, or sematology, and the peculiar adjustment of the sentential elements, or morphology, at present occupying a subordinate position. It cannot be denied that more is being accomplished in the way of collecting material than at any time previous.
The seventh class of anthropological phenomena embraces all of the
S. Mis. 54 29

<<<Page: 451>>>

occupations, crafts, and arts of man, without regard to race. Looking over the whole race as a propagating garden for the arts of life, we study each industry or esthetic action in its historic development and in its correlation with other arts and industries. Mr. Spencer’s Sociology, Mr. Tylor’s Primitive Culture, and works of that class, have done a great deal toward explaining the orderly manner in which even those things which seem fortuitous are brought about.
Very closely allied with the foregoing class is that which relates to sociology proper, or the evolution and regulation of the family, the tribe, the society, and the state. With this division of the subject are connected some of the gravest problems that we have to settle.
The ninth and last class, for want of a better term, we call religion. It includes not only the philosophic inquiry into the cause of all phenomena, but beliefs with regard to morality and the future state, and all those acts and paraphernalia which are associated with worship, together with the organization of society growing out of the same.
In conclusion, a science so comprehensive and so popular must have its corporate agencies, its organs, and its schools. A knowledge of the locality and scope of these is highly important, especially to beginners.
A list of the principal papers of the year, in the order indicated, will serve not only as a bibliographical list, but also to indicate the scope of investigation in each class of inquiries :
Class I. Anthropogeny. If. Prehistoric Anthropology. +s Ill. Biological Anthropology. |
IV. Psychological Anthropology. V. Ethnology. VI. Linguistic Anthropology. VII. Industrial Anthropology. VIIL. Sociology Proper. IX. The Science of Religion.
ALLEN, GRANT. A “hairless” problem in human evolution. (Fortnightly.) The Century, May 24. See, also, Pop. Se. Month. June.
B., J. P. Spiritual evolution. ‘Triibner.
BEGOUEN, La création évolutive. 8°. Toulouse.
3UTLER, Old and new evolution. Scribner & Welford.
Cook, JosEPH. Heredity, with preludes on current events. Houghton, Osgood & Co., Boston. 272 pp. 12°.
DELANEY, MARTIN R. The origin of race and color. Harper & Bros.
DE QUATREFAGES, A. The human species. Translated from the French, and forming No. 27 of “The International Scientific Series.” D. Appleton & Co.
Dumont, A. Haeckel and the theory of evolution in Germany. Paris, Germer-Bailliére.

<<<Page: 452>>>

EvVoLutTion, the fallacies of. Edinburgh Review, July. (A review of Haeckel, Wailace, and de Quatrefages.)
FISKE, JOHN. Darwinism, and other essays. Macmillan & Co.
GomEs, G. Dadegeneracao das actuaes ragas humanas. Correio med. de Lisb., viii, 66.
GEIKIE, ARCHIBALD. Geographical evolution. Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc., July.
HAECKEL, Prof. Ernst. The evolutionof man. A popular exposition of the principal points of human ontogeny and phylogeny. Translated from the German. With numerous illustrations. 2 vols. 129, Appleton.
Popular conferences on evolution. 2° fase. 8°. Bonn.
Henstow, Rev. GEorGE. The theory of evolution of living things. MeMillan. :
KInsLEy, W. W. When did the human race begin? Penn. Month. Sept., Oct.
LE Bon, GusTAvE. Vhomme et les sociétés: leur origine et leur histoire. 8°, Paris, Rothschild.
Mivart, St. GEORGE. On the genesis of species. Macmillan.
Muper, B. F. Another view of the antiquity of man. Kansas City Rev., Aug. ;
PAGLIANI, L. Lo sviluppo umano per eta, sesso, condizione sociale ed etnica, studiato nel peso, statura, circonferenza toracica, capacita vitale e forza muscolare. Gior. d. Soe. ital. Wig., Milano, i, 357.
ScHMIDT, OscAR. Une controverse transformiste. Rev. scientifique, janvier 25.
TOPINARD, PAuL. De la notion de la race en anthropologie. Rev. @anthrop., octobre.
VIRCHOW, R., and Prof. TYNDALL. Evolution. Eclectic, Jan.
WARD, LESTER I’. Haeckel’s genesis of man. EH. Stern & Co., Philadelphia. (From the Penn. Month., Ap., May, July, 1877.)
WiLson, DANIEL. Some American illustrations of the evolution of new varieties of man. J. Anthrop. Inst., May.
The ethnical influences of physical geography. Am. Assoc. Saratoga. IIl.—PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY.
ABBOTT, C.C. Pliocene man. Kansas City Rev., Nov.
AMEGHINO, FLORENTINO. L’homme préhistorique dans La Plata. Rev. @anthrop., avril. ;
ASSYRIA and Babylon, recent discoveries in. Builder, Aug. 2.
BARBER, Epwin A. Antiquity of the tobacco pipe, in Hurope. Am. Antiquarian, i, 1. Mc
Examination of Indian graves in Chester County, Pa... Am.
Naturalist, May.
——. Native American architecture. Am. Antiquarian, Jan.

<<<Page: 453>>>

BARNABEI, F. Excavations and discoveries of antiquities in the territory of Sybaris. Academy, July 19. (Signor Barnabei is a regular contributor to the Academy upon Italian archeology.)
BAsTIAN, A. Die Culturlinder des alten Amerika. 2 vols. Berlin, 1878. :
Baux, A. Note sur des antiquités sardes. Matériaux. 4° livr.
BERTHER, Eire. The prehistoric world. From the French, by Mary J. Safford. Porter and Coates.
BHANDARKAR, R. G. Antiquarian remains in a mound near Kolhapur. J. Bombay Branch Roy. As. Soc., No. 36.
BINKLEY, 8. H. Prehistoric manufacturing village in the Miami Valley, and mound-builders’ relics. Am. Antiquarian, i, 4.
BLACKBURN, HENRY. Breton folk: an artistic tour in Brittany. 171 ill. Seribner & Welford.
BoscawEn, W.St.C. Assyrian explorations. (Athenzeum.) Century, Aug. 9.
BoucHER, HENRI DU. Matériaux pour un catalogue des stations préhistoriques landaises. Matériaux, 5° livr.
BROADHEAD, G. ©. The walled lakes of Iowa. Kansas City Rev., Feb.
Burnovur, EmM1LeE. Mémoires sur Vantiquité (’age du bronze—Troy, Santorin, Delos, Mycene, ete.). Paris, Maisonneuve.
Burton, R. F. The Carinthian barrows. Athen., Nov. 22.
Stones and bones from Egypt and Midian. J. Anthrop. Inst.,
Feb.
CALLARD, THOMAS KARR. The contemporaneity of man with the extinct mammalia. J. Victoria Inst.
CANARIENNES, les antiquités. 1 vol. 4°. Paris, Plon, noticed in La Rey. politique, novembre 8.
CARTAILHAG, M. Review of Evans’s “Stone age.” Rey. scientifique, tevrier 15.
CHANTRE, E. Les nécropoles du premier Age du fer des Alpes francaises. Lyon. 8°. Georg.
CITIES and cemeteries of Etruria. The Builder, Dee. 28.
CLARKE, H. B. Shell-beds of Clatsop Beach. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4.
COLORADO, ancient remains in. Builder, July 26.
Conant, A. J. Footprints of vanished races. C. R. Barns., St. Louis, Mo.
CONGREVE, H. Druidical and other antiquities between Metapolliam and Kurnool. Madras J. of Lit., Jan.
CoopER, B. H. Fresh Assyrian finds. (Sunday Mag.) Meth. Prot. Mag., June.
CUSHING, FRANK H. Manner of flint-chipping among aborigines. Eng. & Mining J., Aug. 9.
Dawkins, W. Boyp. Our earliest ancestors in Britain. Science Lectures for the People, No. 6. John Haywood, London.

<<<Page: 454>>>

DE Hart, J. N. The emblematic mounds of Wisconsin. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4.
DERBY, ORVILLE A. The artificial mounds of the island of Marajé, Brazil. Am. Naturalist, April.
On the range of the mammoth in space and time. Quart. J. Geol. Soe., Feb.
EvuiotrT, E.T. Theage of cave-dwellers in America. Pop. Se. Month., Aug.
FALI&és, Louis. Nouvelle nomenclature géologique du tertiaire. 8°. Montpellier, Barthez.
FARQUHARSON,’R. J. The Rockford and Davenport tablets. Am. Antiquarian, Jan.
Fiscuer, H. Ueber die Herkunft’der sogenannten Amazonensteine, sowie tiber das fabelhafte Amazonenvolk selbst. Archiv fiir Anthrop., xii, No. 1.
FLIGIER, Dr. Ethnological discoveries in Rhodope Mountains. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 165-196.
Fonpoucek, P. CAZALIS DE. Découverte d’une sépulture préhistorique a Lisbonne. Matériaux, 5° livr.
Force, M. F. Some early notices of the Indians of Ohio. 89°, paper. R. Clarke & Co.
FoOREL, Dr. F.-A. Les téneviéres des lacs suisses. Matériaux, 4° livr.
ForsytH, C. I. Alcune osservazioni sui cavalli quaternari. Arch. per Vantrop., Firenze, ix, 100.
FRANCE, the archeological treasures of. Builder, July 26.
FREY, L.S. Were they mound-builders? Am. Naturalist, Oct.
GIRARDIN, J. Translation of Schliemann’s Mycenz. Paris, Hachette.
Gopron, D. A. Les cavernes des environs de Toul et les mammifeéres qui ont disparu de la vailée de la Moselle. Nancy.
Goss, Arbor Low and other circles of stone. Reliquary, July.
GOZZADINI, CTE G. Di un antico sepolero a Ceretolo nel Bolognese. Modena. Reviewed in Matériaux, 4° livr.
Gross, Dr. Une nouvelle palatitte de ’époque de la pierre 4 Locras, lac de Bienne. Matériaux, 2° livr.
HAuN, Tu. The graves of Heitsi-Eibib: a chapter on the prehistoric Hottentot race. Cape Month., No. 97, 257.
HALDEMAN, S.S. Onunsymmetric arrow-heads and allied forms. Am. Naturalist, May.
HArTT, CH. FRED. Notes on the manufactory of pottery among savage races. Am. Naturalist, Feb.
HEATH, Dr. E. Rh. Peruvian antiquities. Quarterly Journ. of Science, Jan. ;
Horrman, W. J. Turtle-back celts in the District of Columbia. Am. Naturalist, Feb.
HuGER, F., Ueber eine seltene Urnenform. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, vili, 366.

<<<Page: 455>>>

HOCHSTETTER, F. VON, and Cu. DESCHMANN. Notes on prehistoric stations in Carniola. From the first report of the Prehistoric Committee of the Vienna Academy. With 22 plates. (Proceedings of the Imper. Acad., July 3, 1879.) Nature, Dec. 25, 1879.
Hotmes, Wu. H. Notes on an extensive deposit of obsidian in the Yellowstone National Park. Am. Naturalist, April.
HowarpD, J. E. The caves of South Devon and their teachings. J. Victoria Inst.
ImeEr, F. La pierre a écuelles des Frises. Anzeig. f. schweiz. Alterth., No. 2.
JACKSON, Rey. S. The ancient cities of Cibola. Rocky Mt. News, Jan.
JoLy, M.N. L’antiquité du Nouveau-Monde. Rev. se., juin 7.
JoLy, N. L’homme avant les métaux. Paris, Bailliére et C*.
JEWITT, L. Pottery in prehistoric times. Ill. Art. Journ., Nov.
KANSAS, prehistoric mounds in. Kansas City Reyv., Jan.
KeEARY, C. F. The dawn of history. Seribners.
KOHN, ALBIN, and C. MEHLIS. Die Vorgeschichte des Menschen in ostlichen Europa. Jena, Costenoble.
LAKE dwellers of Switzerland, the ancient. Boston Journ. of Chemistry, Jan.
LEMOINE. Communications sur les ossements fossiles des terrains tertiaires inférieurs des environs de Reims. Union méd. et scient. du nord-est, Reims, ili, 7; 54; 84, 2 pl.; 114.
LENORMANT, FRANCOIS. Inscriptions chaldéennes sur une hache marteau en silex. Matériaux, 5° livr.
Littrb, E. Les temps oubliés. Phil. Positive Rev., decembre.
Low, C. F. Appendix to Short’s “North Americans of antiquity.” Brochure.
Lyxkins, W. H. R. Stone age in Kansas. Kansas City Rev., Oct.
MACLEAN, J. P. The mound-builders. R. Clarke & Co., Cincinnati.
MALAFOSSE, G. DE. Les pierres 4 bassin et les roches a écuelles dans la Lozére. Matériaux, 3° livr.
Mason, G. C., jr. The old stone mill at Newport. Mag. Am. Hist., Sept.
MAstropon, the home of the. Kansas City Rev., Sept.
Mazarp, H. A. Céramique; de la connaissance par les anciens des glacures plombiféres. Paris. (Extrait du Musée archéologique.)
MEHLIS, C.,and ALBIN KoHn. Materialien zur Vorgeschichte des Menschen im 6stlichen Europa. Jena, Costenoble.
Studien zur iiltesten Geschichte der Rheinlande. Leipzig.
MeEstorF, J. Die Bronzefunde in Bologna. Cor.-Bl. d. deutschen Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., No. 7.
MILNE, JAMES. Excavations at Carnac (Brittany). R. Worthing ton. 4°.
MONUMENTAL inscriptions in all parts of the world. Calcutta Rev., July.

<<<Page: 456>>>

Morse, E. 8S. Traces of an early race in Japan. D. Appleton & Co.
MosELEY, H. N. Easter Islands. Nature, Nov. 6, 13.
MoRTILLET, GABRIEL DE. L’homme quaternaire et Vhomme tertiaire a Vexposition. Rey. d’anthrop., janvier.
——. Early traces of man. Pop. Se. Month., April.
——. Early traces of man. Monthly Journ. Sc., June.
Mucu, Dr. Baugen und Ringen. Vienna. Reviewed in Matériaux, 5° livr.
Mucu, M. Kiinstliche Hohlen in Niederésterreich. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 18.
—. Upon the priority of iron or bronze in Eastern Asia. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 214.
MuRRAY,A.S. Cyprus and Mycene. Nineteenth Century, Jan., 20 pp.
NASH, KE. Pre-Adamite London. Builder, March 1.
NICHOLSON, Sir CHARLES. On some rock-carvings found in the neighborhood of Sydney. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug.
NEHRING, A. Die Raubvégel und die priihistorischen Knochenlager. Cor.-Bl. d. deutschen Gesellsch. fiir Anthrop., No. 8.
Nou.et, J. B. Lage de la pierre polie et du bronze au Cambodge, @apreés les découvertes de M. J. Moura. Published in Archives du Musée @histoire naturelle de Toulouse, 1° publication; noticed in Revue scientifique, novembre 8, 1879.
NoULET et Moura. L’age de la pierre polie au Cambodge. Rev. sc., novembre 8.
OLYMPIA, discoveries at. Edinburgh Review, Jan.
OSSOWSKI, GODEFROY. Monuments préhistoriques de Vancienne Pologne. Cracovie.
PEET, S. D. A comparison between the archeology of Europe and of America, Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4.
— —.. The sources of information as to the prehistoric condition of America. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1.
PERKINS, GeO. H. Archeology of the Champlain Valley. Am. Naturalist, Dee.
PERU. ‘Tres relaciones de antigiiedades peruanas. 8°. Madrid.
PHENE,Dr. Ancient mounds simulating animal forms. Builder, Oct. 4.
PRESERVATION of ancient ruins and monuments. Chambers’ Journ., Nov.
PutTNAM, I’. W. Archeological explorations in Tennessee. Kansas City Review, May—Aug.
——. Chambered mounds in Missouri. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xx, Oct: 15.
On some large and remarkable stone implements of the Southern mound-builders. Am. Association.
——. On the pottery of the Southern mound-builders. Am. Association.

<<<Page: 457>>>

Ad6 ANTHROPOLOGY.
Rav, CHARLES. The Palenque tablet in the United States National Museum. Smithson. Contributions to Knowledge, No. 331.
The Dighton Rock inscription. Mag. Am. History, Apr.
RAW.Linson, H. C. Rough notes on prehistoric Cyprus. Month. Ree. of Geog., Feb. ;
READ, M.C. The inscribed stone of Grave Creek mound. Am. Antiquarian, Jan.
Stone tubes used in smoking tobacco. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1.
REDDING, B. B. How our ancestors in the stone age made their implements. Am. Naturalist, Nov.
REYNOLDS, ELMER R. Aboriginal soapstone quarries in the District of Columbia. Rep. Peabody Museum, xii.
RivibRE, HMILE. Paléoethnologie, ou Vantiquité de Vhomme dans les Alpes-Maritimes. 4°. Livr.i, ii, iii. Paris, Bailliére.
RUDLER, F. W. On jade and kindred stones. Pop. Se. Rev., Oct.
RZEHAK, ANTON. Recent discovery of prehistoric cemeteries near MOnitz, in Mahren. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 202.
Sand, M. Notice sur un atelier de silex taillés des temps préhistoriques aux environs de La Chatre (Indre). 8°. La Chatre.
SAVILLE, B. W. The study of cuneiform archeology. Clergyman’s Mag., Nov.
SaycE,A.H. The origin of early artin Asia Minor. Academy, Aug. 16.
Supp, B. Ancient artificial mounds. Louisville Mag., Jan., 7 pp.
Monuments of Gaul and Britain. IJd., October. SHort, Joun T. The North Americans of antiquity: their origin, migrations, and types of civilization considered. Harper & Bros. Smpson, W. The ancient remains at Bournabashi. London Acad., Nov. 1.
Buddhist remains, Jelalabad Valley. Ind. Antiquary, Aug.
SKERTCHLY,S. B. J. Cliff-dwellers of the far west. Century, July 26.
Date of the neolithic age. Paper read before the Brit. Assoc.
SLAFTER, Rey. E. F. Prehistoric copper implements. N. KE. Hist. and Gen. Register, Jan. 9.
SMITH, WORTHINGTON G. On paleolithic implements from the valley of the Lea. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
SOUTHALL, J.C. The lapse of time since the glacial epoch. J.. Vietoria Inst.
TEPLOUCHOFF, A. F. Archiologische Beitriige aus dem Osten Europas. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, viii, 360-364, 1 pl.
TEMPLIN, Rev. L.J. Antiquity of man. Kansas City Rev., June. 7 pp.
VERNEAU. Habitations et sculptures des anciens habitants des iles Canaries. Rev. d@anthrop., avril.
VIVANET. L’ige du bronze en Sardaigne; découvertes auprés du village de Teti, Matériaux, 2° livr.
Vicurer. Les ancétres du cheval: le cheval sauvage de l’ Europe et ses rapports avee le cheval domestique, Wapres M. Ecker. Rey. scientifique, avril 5.

<<<Page: 458>>>

VoGELEs, A. W. Notes on a lost race of America. Am. Naturalist, Jan.
VoeT, CARL. Les migrations des animaux dans leurs rapports avec la distribution géographique ancienne et moderne. Rev. scientifique, avril 5.
WADDELL, J. A. The failures and fallacies of prehistoric archeology. So. Presbyterian Rev., Oct.
WANKEL, H. Priihistorische Eisenschmelz und Schmiedestiitten in Miihren. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, viii, 289-324, 1 pl.
Wuittkry, N. Is paleolithic man a reality of the past or a myth of the present? Journ. Psych. Med., April. (The author takes the ground that he is a myth.)
WooLLeEy, CHAs. F. Sand-fields and shell-heaps. Am. Antiquarian, i, 4.
Wo.Lpricu, J.N. Upon wrought animal bones from the drift. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 196-202.
ZABOROWSKI, CALLAMAND, and GIRARD DE RIALLE. Review of works on prehistoric archeology. Rev. @anthrop., juillet, 15 pp.
ZABOROWSKI, M. The age of stone in China. Assoc. fr. av. sc., 1878,
7 835.
ANOUTCHINE, M. Capacity of the cranium in man. Assoc. fr. av. s¢e., 1878, 863.
Sur la ptérion chez diverses races humaines et les primates. Bull. Soc. @anthrop., Paris, 1878, 1, 330.
ANTHROPOMETRY. Report of Anthropometric Committee, Brit. Association. Nature, Sept. 18.
ATKINSON, G. M. On a scale to find cranial indices. J. Anthrop, Inst., Feb.
BEAUNIS. Présentation d’un crane et d’un cerveau (idiot microcéphalique. Mém. Soc. de méd. de Nancy, 99.
BENEDIKT, Moriz. Anatomical studies upon the brains of criminals. Vienna.
Ueber die Wahl der kraniometrischen Ebenen. Mitth. d’anthrop. Geselisch. in Wein, ix, 1-10.
BLRENGER-FERAUD. Notes sur la fécondité des mulitres du Sénégal. Rev. @anthrop., octobre.
BLAKE, Dr. CARTER, Prof. OWEN, and Prof. Busk. Notes and observations on skulls brought by Capt. R. F. Burton from the Hast. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
Borpigr, H. Etude anthropologique sur une série de cranes d’assassins. Rey. d’Anthrop., avril.
BRABROOK, E. W. On an Echelle de couleurs published by the Société sténochromique of Paris. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug.
Broca, P. Instructions relatives 4 ’étude anthropologique du systéme dentaire. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, 3. s., ii, 128.

<<<Page: 459>>>

Broca, P. Crane de fellah et usure des dents. Bull. Soc. danthrop. de Paris, 342.
——. La déformation toulousaine. Bull. Soe. d’anthrop. de Paris.
——. Instructions générales pour les recherches anthropologiques a faire sur le vivant. 2°éd. Par. 169°.
—. Localisations cérébrales. Recherches sur les centres olfactifs. Rey. @anthrop., juillet.
—. Sur des cranes de diverses races que M. Hortas a recueillis a Cayenne. Bull. Soc. @anthrop. de Par., ii, 177.
—. Sur la détermination de Page moyen. Bull. Soe. d’anthrop. de Paris, 298, 318.
—. Sur la fausseté des résultats céphalométriques obtenus a Vaide du conformateurs des chapeliers. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Par., onse dis 1ON,
BURNETT, SWAN M. A systematic method for the education of the color sense in children. Central Dispensary, Washington, D. C.
Cauort, L. Annotazioni sopra un cranio fenicio antico trovato in Sardegna. Bull. d.se.med. di Bologna, 6. s., ili, 434.
Day, E. Craniologie. Dict. encycl. d. sc. méd., Par., 1. s., xxii, 642.
DEGENERAGAO das actuaes ragas humanas. Correio med. de Lisb., Viil, 66.
DELAUNAY, ——. La différenciation suivant les sexes. Gaz. d’hop., Paris, 1878, li, 1081.
DEL VECCHIO, G.S. Researches upon the marriage of consanguins. Medico di casa, Milano, vii, 117, 129.
Ecker, A. Ueber gewisse Ueberbleibsel embryonaler Formen in der Steissbeingegend beim ungebornen, neugebornen, und erwachsenen Menschen. Arch. f. Anthrop., xi, 281.
FENOMENOVA, N. Girth of the chest in relation to health and disease. Voyenno-med. J., St. Petersburg, 1878, exxxi, 89.
FERE, Cu. Note sur le développement du cerveau considéré dans ses rapports avec le crane. Rey. d’anthrop., octobre.
FLOWER, WILLIAM H. Catalogue of specimens illustrating the osteology and dentition of vertebrated animals, recent and extinct, contained in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Part I, Man. London, David Bogue.
—. Exhibition of cranium of a native of one of the Fiji Islands. J. Anthrop. Inst., August.
GEOFFROY, J. La connaissance et la ee des couleurs. Bull. Soc. @anthrop., Paris, 322.
HessgE, W. Bestimmungen des Gewichtes und Messungen der Korperlinge bei einem Kinde in ersten und zweiten Lebensjahre. Arch. f. Gynaek., Berl., xiv, 491.
HIGIENE de las razas prehistéricas. Siglo méd., Madrid, xxvi, 33, 49.
Hintary, M. Some observations on the peculiarities of the capillary circulation of the negro. Med. Press and Cire., Lond., xxvii, 400,
Hamy, M. Du prognathisme artificiel. Rev. d’anthrop., janvier.

<<<Page: 460>>>

HOFFMAN, W.J. TheChacocranium. Gov. Print. Office, Washington.
——. The practice of medicine and surgery by the aboriginal races of the southwest. Phila. Reporter, Feb. 22.
HOFFMANN, Constanztheorie und Individualpotenz im Vergleiche zur Verwandtschaftszucht. Repert. d. Thierh., Stuttg., xl, 1-18.
HOVELACQUE, ABEL. Le crane des Burgundes du moyen dge. Rev. @anthrop., avril.
Nouvelle recherches sur le crane savoyard. Rev. d’anthrop., janvier.
JoLy, M. N. Types craniens dits primitifs. Machoires préhistoriques. Rev. scientifique, jan.18. (An illustrated review of all noted prehistoric crania.)
JULIEN, ALEXIS. De Vhomotypie des membres thoraciques et abdominaux. Rev. d’anthrop., janvier.
LACASSAGNE et CLIQUET. De Vinfluence du travail intellectuel sur le volume et la forme de la téte. Bull. Soc. de méd. pub., Par., i, 398.
LAGNEAU, G. Des déformations céphaliques en France. Gaz. hebd. de méd., Paris.
LATHROP, W. H. Consanguineous marriages. Boston Med. and Surg. J., ¢. 837,
LE Bon, GusTAVeE. Recherches anatomiques et mathématiques sur les lois de variation du volume du cerveau et ducrane. Rey. @anthrop., janvier.
LE ContveE, J. Scientific relation ofsociology to biology. Pop.Sc. Month., Jan., Feb.
Livon, Martius. De Vomoplate et de ses indices de largeur dans les races humaines. 4°. Par.
Lomprosa, ©. De Vinfluence de Vorographie sur la stature. Ann. de démog. internat., Paris, iii, 59.
LuscHan, M. Brachycephalism and civilization. Assoc. fr. av. sce., 1878, 825.
LussANA, Fitippo. Delle funzioni dei lobi anteriori del cervello umano. Gaz. med. ital. lomb., Milano, July.
MANUELLI, A., and C. LomBroso. Studii su 106 crani piemontesi. Gior. d. r. Accad. di med. di Torino, xlii, 502.
MARTIN, ERNEST. Histoire des monstres, vii, 415. 8°. Paris, Reinwald & Cre.
MopiGgLiANt, LEONE. Di alcune linee faciali trasverse nel cranio di varie razze.
Myace, J. Consanguineous marriage and deaf-mutes. Christiania.
NADILLAC, Marquis de. Les trépanations préhistoriques. 8°. 11 pp. Paris, Genais.
Pawnscu, AD. Die Furchen und Wiilsteam Grosshirn. 89°. Berlin.
PARKER, A. J. Simian characters in negro brains. Proc. Acad. Nat. Se., Phila., 339.
PASTEAU, EmiLE. Recherches sur les proportions de la clavicule dans les sexes et dans les races. 4°. 104 p. Paris.

<<<Page: 461>>>

PATRICK, JOHN J. R. Dental fallacies. Rumbold, St. Louis. PETERSSON, OF V. On weight of the body in first year of life. Upsala Likaref. Forh., xiv, 45. Pozzi, SAMUEL. Du crane. Anatomie descriptive et chirurgicale. Paris. (Extrait factice du Dict. encyel. des sciences médicales.) RAFILLAC, . Mensurations de cranes au Médoc (Gironde). French Assoc., 1878, 827.
REGALIA, E. Sopra un oso forato raccolto in un Nuraghe. Archiv. per Vantrop., ix, 1.
ReEIcuH, E. Pathology of populations: a study upon the infirmities of mankind. Berlin.
Beitrige zur Anthropologie und Psychologie. 8°. Braunschweig.
RiccarRpDI, Dott. PAOLO. Saggio di studii intorno alla pesca presso alcune razze umane. Archiv. per Vantrop., ix, 1.
. Fisiologia e alla espressione dell’uomo.
—. Studio intorno ad alcuni crani araneani. Milano.
Gli organi genitali femminei esterni. Modena.
ROLLESTON, GEORGE. Notes on askeleton found at Cissbury. J. Anthrop. Inst., May.
SCHERZER, Dr. KARL. Resultate auf dem Gebiete der Anthropometrie. Petermann’s Mitth., No. iv. }
SCHMIDT, Dr. EMIL. Kraniologische Untersuchungen. Archiv fiir Anthrop., xii, 1.
SCHNEIDER, ANTON. Beitriige sur vergleichenden Anatomie und Entwickelungsgeschichte der Wirbel-Thiere. 4°. Berlin.
TARUFFI, C. Della macrosomia. Ann. univ. di med. e chir., Milano. cexlvii, 339, 1 pl.
TOPINARD, PAUL. Review of important works on cranial deformations. 10 pp. Rey. @anthrop., juillet.
Sur une collection de cheveux européens exposée dans la Gal-
lerie Vanthropologie du Trocadéro. Bull. Soc. V@anthrop. de Paris,
3. §., ll, 39.
Sur deux cranes de Biskra. Bull. Soe. d@anthrop. de Paris, 335.
TURNER, J. Notes on the dissection of a negro. J. Anat. & Physiol., Lond., xiii, 382.
TURNER, WILLIAM. Report on recent memoirs on the anatomy of the brain. J. Anat. & Physiol., Lond., xiii, 266-289.
VINCENT, H.M. L’homme et le singe4é exposition universelle. Nimes.
VITALI, VITALE. Sopra aleuni casi di articolazione dell’odontoide con Voecipitale nel’uomo. Archiv. per l’antrop., ix, 1.
Studio statistico sui fori parietali. Archiv. per Vantrop., ix, 1.
Voprosu, K. On determining the mechanical power of man. Med. Pribavlen, St. Petersb., 1878, xviii, 492-500.
WEISBACH, A. Anthropométrie. Progrés méd., Par., vii, 353.
Wirt, Hue@o. Die Schidelform der Esten. Schnackenburg, Dorpat.

<<<Page: 462>>>

Wriaut, J.S. Some measurements of the heads of males and females, showing that the brain of the male has a comparatively greater volume in the anterior part of the cranial cavity, that the brain of the female has a comparatively greater volume in the superior part of the cranial cavity, and that education in the male and the female tends to increase the volume of the brain in the anterior part of the cranial cavity. Arch. of Med., N. Y., 1879-80, ii, 118.
ZABAROWSKI. Review of Chudzinski’s “Comparative anatomy of the cerebral convolutions,” in Rey. @anthrop., octobre.
ALFORD, Dr. L. A. Psychological science. St. Louis Eclec. Med. Jour.
BERTRAND DE SAINT-GERMAIN. L’intelligence dans la série animale. Rev. scientifique, Paris, juin 21.
BEssSER, LEOPOLD. Der Mensch und seine Ideale. 8°. Bonn, 1878.
DELB@UF, M. J. Psychologie comparée. Rev. scientifique, mai 24; also, juin 21.
FAuRE, L. Au point de vue philosophique, il n’existe pas, en anthropologie, de races supérieures et de races inférieures. Gaz. méd. de PAlgérie, xxiv, 4-6.
Fow ge, T. W. The place of the willin evolution. Nineteenth Century, March.
GALTON, F. Psychometric facts. Eclectic Mag., May, 6 pp.
GRAHAM, Dr. C. C. Whatis mind? Have brutes a mind? The Age, May 10.
HERZEN, A. Della natura dell’attivita psichica. Archiv. per l’antrop., vb. Es
INTELLECT in brutes. Nature, Nov. 13. Saturday Magazine, April 26.
KeEIcH, EDWARD. Beitrige zur Anthropologie und Psychologie. 8°. Braunschweig, Vieweg u. Sohn.
KINSLEY, W. W. Mental life below the human. Penn. Month, Jan., 21 pp.
Linpsay, W. LAUDER. Mind in the lower animals in health and disease. London, C. Kegan, Paul & Co. Reviewed in Nature, Nov. 6.
The moral sense in the lower animals. Pop. Se. Month., Jan.,
1880.
‘“ PROGRESS”: the alleged distinction between man and brute. Month. J. Se., Feb.
PSYCHOLOGICAL science: American anthropology. St. Louis Heclee. Med. Journ., April, 3 pp.
RoyER, Mme. CLEMENCE. De la nature de beau. Extr. from La Philos. positive, Versailles.
THE Spiritual in animals. Month. J. Se., May. Saturday Mag., July
WILKINSON, W. Is conscience primitive? Pop. Sc. Month, March.

<<<Page: 463>>>

AFGHANISTAN and the Afghans. Calcutta Rev., July.
AFRIQUE explorée et civilisée. Journal mensuel, premiére année, 1879, 1880 (No. 1, juillet 1879), Genéve (Sandoz).
AMERICAN Indians, notes and queries on. Missionary Rey., Sept.
ARYAS, discussion sur Vorigine des. Bull. Soc. d’anthrop. de Paris, 3. 8., li, 185, 219, 260.
AUSTRALIA, the aborigines of. (Spectator.) The Century, May 17.
AUSTRALIA, the colored man in. (Fortnightly.) Eclectic, Sept.
AUSTRALIAN peculiarities. (Saturday Rev.) Saturday Mag., Oct. 18.
BALDWIN, C. C. Early Indian migrations in Ohio. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4.
BARRETT, H. J. Fifteen years among the Zulus and Boers. London, Stanford.
BEDDOL, JoHN. On the Bulgarians. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
BEERDOMM, JULIUS. Wanderings in Patagonia. 8°. London.
BELLEW, H. W. Afghanistan and the Afghans. London, Low.
BERENGER-FERAUD, L. I. B. Les peuplades dela Sénégambie. Paris, i. Leroux.
BickMoORE, ALBERT 8S. The ethnology of the islands of the Indian and the Pacific Oceans. Illustrated by a large colored map. Am. Association.
BuLuNtT, ANNE. Bedouin tribes of the Euphrates. 2 vols. 8°. London.
BoHEMIANS (The) and Slovaks. Westminster Rev., Oct.
BrAzzZA, Count 8S. DE. The native races of the Gaboon and Ogowa. Brit. Assoc., Sheffield.
Broca, Pauu. Sur les prétendus enarées du Caucase. Bull. Soe. WVanthrop., 73-76.
Brown, R. The Zulus and their country. Saturday Mag., May 10.
—. The same subject. Miss. Herald, June.
BruuMet, M. A. Japan and her people. Potter’s Am. Month., Oct.
BoEnER, ERNST. Die Hawaiischen Inseln. Deutsche Rundschau, July.
BuRMESE, among the. (Fraser’s Mag.) Living Age, Jan.—Feb.
CABUL and its people. Saturday Mag., Nov. 8.
Carrp, J. The land and the people of India. Nineteenth Century, Sept., Oct.
CAMERON, Commander. The manners and customs of the people of Urua, in Central Africa. British Assoc., Sheffield.
CAMPBELL, JOHN. On the origin of some American Indian tribes. Canadian Naturalist, ix, No. 4.
Cunt, Wm. The aborigines of Canada under the British crown: glances at their customs, characteristics, and history. Trans. Lit. & Hist. Soe. Quebec, 1877-79.
CorrinBury, W. lL. An exhibition of Indian character. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4.

<<<Page: 464>>>

D’ALBERTIS, L. M. Fly River, New Guinea. Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc., Jan.
DAwson, GEORGE M. The past and present condition of the Indians of Canada. Canadian Naturalist, ix, 3.
DrRvuipbs, the. Ill. Leslie’s Sunday Mag., July.
Epson, O. Brodhead’s expedition against the Indians of the Upper Allegheny, 1779. Mag. Am. Hist., Nov.
FARBER, J. A. Zululand and the Zulus. London, Kerby & Endean.
FERAUvD, L. J.B. Bérenger. Les peuplades de la Sénégambie. Paris.
FuiciER. Ethnologische Entdeckungen in Rhodope-Gebirge. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, ix, 165.
Die Ursitze der Gothen. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, Mirz.
FONTPERTUIS, AD. F. DE. L’émigration chinoise: son caractere, son importance, et sa distribution. Rev. scientifique, mars 1.
Force, M. F. Some early notices of the Indians of Ohio: to what race did the mound-builders belong? R. Clarke & Co., Cincinnati. GERLAND, G. Die Indianer Californiens. Petermann’s Mitth., vii, 241. GicLILI, Enrico H. Nuove notizie sui popoli negroidi dell’Asia e spe-
cialmente sui Negriti. Archiv. per Vantrop., ix, 1.
GRIFFIS, W. E. The Ainos of Northern Japan. Leslie’s Sunday Mag., May.
Hamy, E. T. Essai de coordination des matériaux récemment recueillis sur Vethnologie des négrilles ou pygmés de Afrique équatoriale. Bull. Soc. @anthrop., 79-100.
HARTMANN, RoBeRtT. Die Nigritier: eine anthropologische-ethnologische Monographie. Supplement to Zeitschrift fiir Ethnologie, 500 pp.
Les peuples de lAfrique. In Bibliotheque scientifique internationale.
HAvu-Haus in New Zealand, the. (London Quart.) Saturday Mag., Oct. 25.
Hess, J.S. The Teuton in civilization. Reformed Quart. Rev., July.
HUsBBE-SCHLEIDEN, W. Ethiopen: Studien iiber West-Afrika. Hamburg.
Iroquois and Delaware Indians, notes on the. Penn. Mag. of Hist., Vili.
Krann, A. H. Finnie ethnology. Nature, Dee. 25. (A review of Finska Kranier. Gustav Retaius, Stockholm, 1878. Which affirms that the Finns are amongst the most recent arrivals from Asia.)
Who was Prince Alumayu? Nature, Nov. 20. (In this letter will be found a valuable table of Abyssinian races.)
Ky, T. V. Institutions et moeurs annamites. Phil. positive rev., déc.
LAwEsS, W. G. Ethnological notes on the Motu, Koitapu, and Koiari tribes of New Guinea. J. Anthrop. Inst., May.
LECHEVALLIER, A. Les Indiens séminoles. Naturaliste canadien, aout.

<<<Page: 465>>>

Lewis, A. L. On the evils arising from the use of historical names as scientific terms. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
Macniay, M. Ethnological excursions in the Malay Peninsula. Journ. Straits Branch Roy. As. Soce., No. 2.
On the Agomes Islands. Nature, Nov. 20.
MARCHE, ALFRED. Trois voyages dans l’Afrique occidentale. Paris.
Martin, HENRI. Les traditions irlandaises. Rev. d’anthrop., avril.
MAUREL. Sur les Aracouyennis et les Galibis (Guyane). 89°. Paris.
MAURITIUS. Fraser’s Mag., April.
MAYER, S. R. T., and JoHN PacretT. Afghanistan. London.
MEEKER, N.C. The Utes of Colorado. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4.
Montheut, EiiE. Les colonies de VAfrique australe. Rev. des deux mondes, avril 15.
MULLER, FREDERICK. On the migration of races. (Allg. Ethnographie.) Pop. Se. Month., Jan., 1880.
Munpt-LaurF, Tu. Die schwarze Urbevilkerung des Philippinen und Molukken-Archipels, so wieder Inseln Celebes und Formosa. Natur, No. 33-36.
NATCHEZ and Yuchi, notes on the. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1, 76.
NoBLeE, Professor (editor). The Cape and its people, &c., by South African writers. Capetown.
PALGRAVE, W. CoATES. The Ovahereréd, or Damaras. So. African Folk-Lore Journal, May.
PARKMAN, F. La Salle and the discovery of the Great West. Little, Brown & Co.
Pring, Sir B. The Boers and the Zulus. Contemp. Review, June.
Pinto, Major. On the native races of the headwaters of the Zambesi. Brit. Assoc., Sheffield.
ReEcuws, Evis&h. The earth and its inhabitants. In numbers, by subscription. D. Appleton & Co.
Ruys, J. Greeks and Goths: a study of the Runes. Academy, Aug. 23.
RIALLE, GERARD DE. Les Aryas primitifs. Rev. se., mai 24.
Rosion, F. Observations critiques sur ’archéologie, ete., en ce qui concerne la race celtique. Rennes.
RUSSELL, J.C. A sketch of New Zealand with pen and pencil. Am. Naturalist, Feb.
SacHAvu, H. Afghanistan. Deutsche Rundschau, April.
ScHAAFFHAUSEN, H. Zehn Lappliinder in Deutschland. Archiv f. Anthrop., xii, 1.
SmitH, H. H. Brazil. Ul. Seribner’s Mo., May-July.
Stone, Octavius ©. A few months in New Guinea. Sampson & Low. Reviewed in Nature, with ill., Nov. 20.
Tayitor, I. Greeks and Goths: a study of the Runes. McMillan.
TOPINARD, PAUL. Review of Flower’s “ Lectures on the indigenous races of the Pacifie Ocean,” and of Beddoe’s “ Anthropology of the county of Gloucester,” in Rey. d’anthrop., octobre.

<<<Page: 466>>>

———. Observation de négres albinos 4 Madagascar. Assoc. Fr., 1878, 850.
UsFALVY, CH. E. DE. Les Galtchas et les Tadjiks (Kohistan). Rev. W@anthrop., janvier.
——. Atlas anthropologique des peuples du Ferghanak. 8°. Paris.
———. Les Kachgariens, les Tarantchis, et les Bounganes. Rev. d’anthrop., juillet.
VAMBERY, HERMANN. Die primitive Cultur des turko-tartarischen Volkes. Leipzig, Brockhaus.
VICTORIA, aborigines of. (Spectator.) Littell’s Living Age, April 26.
WAEBER, OTTO. LBeitraige zur Anthropologie der Letten. Schnackenburg, Dorpat.
WALDHAUER, FERDINAND. Zur Anthropologie der Liven. Schnackenburg, Dorpat.
WALLACE, A. R. New Guinea and its inhabitants. (Contemp. Rev.) Living Age, March 29, 13 pp.; Pop. Se. Month., April, May.
WILLIAMS, Mon NIER. Menansen and the Punjaub. Contemp. Rey., Jan.
WHITMEE, 8. J. The ethnology of Polynesia. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
———. A revised nomenclature of the inter-oceanice races of man. J. Anthrop. Inst., May.
——. The ethnology of the Pacific. J. Victoria Inst.
WISKER, JOHN. The colored man in Australia. Fortnightly, July.
WyYtLik, A. History of the southwestern ORE enIEI and Chaou-Seén. J. aie Inst., Aug.
VicToRIA, the intellectual status of the aborigines of. Living Age, April 26, 3 pp.
ZULU and other weapons. Saturday Mag., April 5
ZULUS, home life of the. Chambers’ Journal, Sept.
ABEL, C. Language, and the Egyptian language. N. Englander, Nov.
ADAM, L. Duparler des hommes et du parler des femmes dans la langue caraibe. Rev. linguistique, juillet.
Aston, W. G. :A comparative study of the Japanese and Korean languages. J. Roy. Asiatic Soe., Aug.
BELL, A. G. Vowel theories. Am. Journ. Otology, July.
BERTONEO, P. Lupovico. Vocabulario de la lengua aymara. Republished by Zulio Platzmann. Leipzig. 2vols. 8°.
BLAKE, C. J. The logographic value of consonant sounds in relation to their transmission by telephone. Am. Journ. Otology, July. Bruut, Gustav. On the etymology of the word “chichimecatl.” Am.
Antiquarian, ii, 1. CAIN, Rev. J. Customs and languages of the Kois. Ind. Antiq., Feb. CALDERWOOD, H. Expressions of emotions on the human countenance. Internat. Rev., Feb. S. Mis. 54-30

<<<Page: 467>>>

Cuarrncy, H. pre. Vocabulaire frangais-nagranda. Rev. linguistique, juillet. Courpiovux, PH. E. Dictionnaire abrégé de la langue fé-gbe ou dahoméenne. Actes de la Soc. philologique, ix. Cust, ROBERT. Modern languages of the East Indies. Triibner. DeEnnys, N. B. Pidgin English. Journ. Straits Branch R. As. Soe., 2. Dupont, Dr. Essai sur la langue des Indiens galibis. Rey. linguistique, avril, 15 pp. EAst INDIAN languages. Missionary Herald, April, 2 pp. FARQUHARSON, J. A. The phonetic elements in American languages. Am. Antiquarian, Jan. Fisk, JoHN. Review of linguistic and sociological works. In No. Am. Review, Aug. JATSCHET, ALBERT 8S. Linguistic notes. Inthe American Antiquarian. —. La famille linguistique Maskoki, et son dialect Hitchiti. Congrés des américanistes, 3d sess. Localbenennungen aus dem Berner Oberlande und dem Oberwallis. Arch. d. historische Ver. d. Kantons Bern. Volk und Sprache der Méklaks in siidwestlichen Oregon. Globus, Braunschweig, Nos. 11 und 12. | Farbenbenennungen in nordamerikanischen Sprachen. Ztschr. f. Ethnologie, Berlin, 293-302. Adjectives of color in seven Indian languages. Am. Naturalist, 475-485.
. On syllabic reduplication as observed in Indian languages, and in the Klamath language of Southwestern Oregon in particular. Proe. 11th session Aim. Philol. Assoe., 35-37.
——. Mythologic text in the Klamath language of Southern Oregon. Am. Antiquarian, i, 161-166. Perez’s Maya-Spanish Dictionary. Review in Am. Antiquarian, li, 30-32. GitES, H. A. The book language of China. Nineteenth Century, Nov. GLossAry of Anglo-Indian terms. Indian Antiquary, June. GRAMMAIRE samoane. Rev. linguistique, octobre. Henry, V. Esquisse dune grammaire raisonnée de la langue aléoute. Paris, Maisonneuve. Rey. linguistique, janvier. . Sur le parler des hommes et le parler des femmes dans la langue chiquita. Rev. linguistique, juillet. Hoventon, W. Hieroglyphic or picture origin of the characters of the Assyrian syllabary. Trans. Soc. Biblical Archaeology, vi, 2. HovELACQUE, ABEL. Les langues de l’Asie sud-orientale. Rey. d’anthrop., janvier.
Irvine, C. J. Suggestions regarding a new Malay dictionary. Journ. Straits Braneh Roy. As. Soe., 2.
KirrLeE, Rey. F. Relationship of the Aryan and Dravidian families of speech. Indian Antiquary, Feb., March.

<<<Page: 468>>>

LANGUAGES of Australia, New Zealand. Ref. to Triibner’s Catalogue, 109, 110.
Livine and dead languages. The Age, May 10, 17.
LOSKER, EDUARD. Ursprung, Zweck, und Entwickelung der Sprache. Deutsche Rundschau, Nov.
MALAY proverbs. Journ. of Roy. As. Soe., Straits Branch, No. 1.
MALLERY, GARRICK. The sign-language of the North cae Indians. Am. Association.
MAXWELL, W.E. Malay proverbs, ii. Journ. Straits Branch Roy. As. Soe., 2.
NOTICE sur plusieurs langues indiennes de la Nouvelle Grenade. Rev. linguistique, juillet.
OPPERT, GuSTAY. On the classification of languages. Triibner.
. On the classification of languages. Madras Jour. of Lit., No. 1.
OPPERT JULES. Le peuple et la langue des Medes. Paris.
PEREZ, Don JUAN Pio. Diccionario de la lengua maya. Completed by Dr. Berendt; contains 22,000 words.
RAVENSTEIN, E.G. Celtic languages in the British Isles: a statistical study. Journ. Statist. Soc., Sept.
SIBLEY, Dr. Caddoquis or Caddo language. Am. Naturalist, Dec.
Smiru, C. E. The beginning of speech. The Voice, April.
SOCIETE philologique, Actes de la. Paris, E. Leroux.
TCHUTSHISK language. A vocabulary of 300 words collected by the party of the Vega.
VAN Eys, I. W. J. Grammaire comparée des dialectes basques. Paris, 1879.
Vinson, J. Esquisse grammaticale de la langue de Goa. Rey. lin guistique, octobre.
WILLIAMS, MonteER. Modern India and the Indians. Triibner.
WILLISTON, 8S. W. Indian pictographs in Western Kansas. Kansas City Rev., May.
YOKOHAMA pidgin: anew dialect. (New Quart. Rev.) Living Age, Aug. 23. Saturday Mag., Sept. 27.
YULE and BURNELL. Anglo-Indian terms. Ind. Antiquary, Aug.
ZABOROWSKI. L’origine du langage. Vol. 1, Bibliotheque utile.
ZULU orthography. Living Age, June 14.
ARTISAN of Japan and his work. The Builder, May 17.
BURNHAM, G. Some features of ancient ae ae Builder, Aug. 2. Am. Mrenitecd, Aug 9.
CuRIoUS ise ouariog in regard to the manner of making flint implements by the aborigines and prehistoric inhabitants of “America. (Scientific American.) Engineering and Mining Journ., Aug. 9.
DEVELOPMENT of art. National Quarterly Review, Jan., 25 pp.
EELLS, M. Indian music. Am. Antiquarian, i, 4.

<<<Page: 469>>>

GAMES in Upper India, native cavalry. Saturday Mag., July 26.
GuHosHa, B.S. P. The music of Hindustan. Caleutta Rev., July.
GUN flints and neolithic art. (Eng. Mechanic.) Saturday Mag., Aug. 23.
How1anp, H.R. Primitive arts and modes of life. Buffalo Soe. of Nat. Se., March 15.
Lorri£, W. J. The oldest art in the world. (Macmillan’s.) Eclectic, Dec.
Music among the Malagasy. Musical Record, Oct. 4.
TyLor, E. B. A history of games. (Fortnightly.) Eclectic, July. Century, June 7-14. Living Age, May 31. Pop.Se. Month., June.
——. Backgammon among the Aztecs. (Macmillan’s.) Pop. Se. Month., Feb. Eclectic Mag., Feb.
——. Remarks on the geographical distribution of games. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug.
WAINWRIGHT, A. The origin and practice of polo. Scribner’s Month.,
June. VIII.—SOCIOLOGY.
AINSLEE, I.G. Marriage customs. Potter’s Am. Month., Sept., Oct.
ARYAN Society. Westminster Rev., July, 38 pp.
B., E. The Indian as a coming citizen. Lippincott’s Mag., Jan., 2 pp.
Brooks, W. K. The condition of women from a zoological point of view. Pop. Se. Month., June, July.
BUCKLAND, Miss A. W. Ethnological hints afforded by the stimulants in use among savages and among the ancients. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
BuRIAL customs: Choctaw, H. F. Buckner; Miami, R. S. Robertson; Ohio Valley, 7. W. Kinney; Mississippi Valley, T. Thompson; Missouri River Valley, H. Martin; Indiana, M. A. Gavitt; Michigan, H. Little; Tennessee. Am. Antiquarian, Sept.
Dr Baye, J. Les amulettes craniennes. 8°. Tours.
DeEL VeEccHto, G. 8. Sulle ricerche statistiche intorno ai matrimonio fra consanguinei e di loro effetti. Medico di casa, Milano, vii, tie oS!
Denis, H. Des origioes et de Vévolution du droit économique. Phil. positive rev., decembre.
FAKIRS of India. Ill. Missionary Herald, May.
FARRER, J. A. Primitive manners and customs. Henry Holt. FLOWER, W. H. Illustrations of the mode of preserving the dead in Darnley Island and South Australia. J. Anthrop. Inst., May. FOUILLEE, ALFRED. L/’histoire naturelle des sociétés humaines ou
animales. Rev. ‘les deux mondes, juillet, aott.
Fors of salutations. Eclectic Mag., Jan.
GILES, H. G. Cremation in China. Eclectic Mag., May, 5 pp. See, also, Philad. Reporter, March 29.
HoFrMAN, W. J. Curious aboriginal customs. Am. Naturalist, Jan.

<<<Page: 470>>>

Horrman, W. J. Practice of medicine and surgery by the aboriginal races of the Southwest. Med. & Surg. Rep., xl, No. 8, 157.
JoLy, N. Origine des animaux domestiques. Rev. Se., fevrier 22.
KEENE, H. G. Rural life in Northern India. Calcutta Rev., Jan.
Knox, T. W. Festivals in India. Leslie’s Pop. Month., Oct.
LAGNEAU, G. Des déformations céphaliques en France. Gaz. hebd. de méd., Par., 2. s., xvi, 72-75.
MAEDA, MASANA. Funeral ceremonies in Japan. Rev. scientifique, janvier 18.
MARRIAGE, archaic forms of. Calcutta Rev., Jan.
Mrnon, P. 8S. On the castes of Malabar. Madras Jour. of Lit.. 1.
MiTtER, B. P. C. Social life of the Aryas. Calcutta Rev., Jan.
MortTILueT, G. DE. The origin of domestic animals. Am. Naturalist, Dec.
Mucu, Dr. M. Baugen und Ringe: eine Studie tiber das Ringgeld und seinen Gebrauch bei den Germanen. 41 pp.,$ figs. (Exhaustive and with copious references.) Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, Mai.
MupecE, B. F. Are the Indians decreasing? Ifso, why?
NEWMAN, F. W. The barbarism of civilization. Contemp. Rev., June.
OppERT, G. On the ancient commerce of India. Madras Jour. of Lit., No. 1.
PICKERING, CHARLES. Chronological history of plants. 4°. 1238 pp.
Proctor, R. A. The origin of the week. Contemp. Review, June.
RECENT investigations into archaic forms of marriage. Calcutta Rev., Jan.
Reicu, Epwarp. Beitriige zur Anthropologie und Psychologie mit Anwendung auf das Leben der Gesellschaft. 2. Ausg. Braunschweig, F. Vieweg u. Sohn.
REMBAUGH, Dr. A.C. Our present race deterioration. Penn. Month., April.
RIALLE, GIRARD DE. Sociologie et anthropologie. Rey. @anthrop., avril. (A series of reviews upon Espinas, Herbert Spencer, Perez, and C. Staniland Wake.)
Rieas, Rev. A. L. Indian education not an experiment.
SANDERSON, JOHN. Polygamous marriage among Kaffirs of Natal and countries around. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
Snipp, B. Gallic mythology. Louisville Mag., Dee.
SIBREE, JAMES. Relationships and the names used for them among the peoples of Madagascar, chiefly the Hovas, together with observations upon marriage, customs, and morals among the Malagasy. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug.
SocroLoey of ants. (Spectator.) Eclectic, Sept.
SPENCER, HERBERT. Ceremonial institutions; being part iv of the Principles of Sociology. Williams & Norgate.
SruppER, Dr. TH. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Hundracen in den Pfahlbauten. Archiv fiir Anthrop., xii, 1.

<<<Page: 471>>>

SUMNER-MAINE, H. De Vorganisation juridique de la famille chez les Slaves du sud et chez les Rajpoutes. 8°. Paris, Thorin. WAKE, C.STANILAND. The primitive human family. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug. WILuIAMs, A. M. A grand council at Okmulgee. Lippincott’s Mag., Sept. IX.—THE SCIENCE OF RELIGION.
BoOscaAwEN, W. Notes on Assyrian religion and mythology. Trans. Soe. Biblical Archeology, vi, 2.
Brown, R., jr. Archaic solar-cult of Egypt, ii. Theolog. Rev., Jan.
Bunce, E. A. Assyrian incantations to fire and water. Trans. Soe. Biblical Archeology, vi, 2.
CHARENCY, M. DE. Ages cosmiques, d’apres la mythologie mexicaine. I, Annales de phil. chrétienne, novembre.
Conway, MoncurRE D. Demonology and devil lore. Chatto & Windres.
DARMESTETER, J. The Supreme God in the Indo-European mythology. Contemporary Rey., Oct.
De Bays, J. Les amulettes craniennes 4 lage de la pierre polie. 89. Tours.
Dowson, JOHN. A classical dictionary of Hindu mythology. Triibner.
DyEr, T. T. Roses and their folk-lore. Saturday Mag., Sept. 27.
EELLS, M. The religion of the Clallam and Twana Indians. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1.
FARRER, J. A. Fairy lore of savages. Saturday Mag., Jan. 4, 8 pp. Pop. Se. Month., suppl., Feb.
FETISH, or rag-bushes in Madagascar. Saturday Mag., Nov.
FOLK-LORE of the Magyars. See Triibner’s Catalogue, 111.
Foster, T. Nature myths in nursery rhymes. Gentleman’s Mag., Jan.
GAIDOZ, HENRI. Esquisse de la religion des Gaulois. Paris.
GATSCHET, A.S. Mythologic text in the Klamath language. Am. Antiquarian, Jan.
HENDERSON, J.G. Superstitions among the ancient inhabitants of the Mississippi Valley relative to the owl. Am. Association.
Superstitions among the ancient inhabitants of the Mississippi
Valley relative to thunder. Am. Association.
Hoare, J. N. Religion of the ancient Egyptians. Living Age, Jan. 4, 9 pp., from Nineteenth Century.
Keary, C.F. Myths of the sea and the River of Death. Contemporary Rey., Oct.
LENORMANT, F. The deluge: its traditions in ancient nations. Contemporary Rev., Nov.
McCuintock, LETITIA. Beasts, birds, and insects in Irish folk-lore.. Belgravia, Nov.
——.. Cavan superstitions. Eclectic, Jan., 4 pp.

<<<Page: 472>>>

Minort, Prof. Pre-Homerie legends of the voyage of the Argonauts. Dublin Rey., Jan.
Mucu, M. Ueber die Kosmogenie und Anthropogenie des germanischen Mythus. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, viii, 324-352. MUuLuER, I’. MAx. Lectures on the origin and growth of religion, ete.
8°. Scribner & Welford.
MULLER, F. MAx (editor). The sacred books of the east. Vol. I. The Upanishads; translated by I’. Max Miiller. Vol. II. The sacred laws of the Aryas; translated by Georg Biihler. Vol. If. The sacred books of China; translated by James Legge. Oxford, the Clarendon Press.
PALEY, T. A. The origin of the solar myth. Dublin Rev., July.
REET, STEPHEN D. ‘Traces of Bible facts in the traditions of all nations. Am. Antiquarian, Jan.
PHENE, J.S. Dragon worship. Builder, Aug. 30.
POWELL, J. W. Mythologie philosophy. Pop. Sc. Month., Nov. (This paper was delivered before Section B of the American Associatino as a vice-president’s address. It explains the author’s theory that all mythology is an inquiry into the cause of phenomena from the stand-point of the inquirer.)
RAuston, W. R.S. Cinderella. Nineteenth Century, Nov.
RIALLE, GIRARD DE. La mythologie comparée. Lev. scientifique, janvier 25.
RIALLE, GIRARD DE. Lamythologie comparée. Reviewed in Rev. Wanthrop., octobre, by André Lefevre.
Riccarpi, Dr. The worship of water. Revista Europea, Sept.
RoGceRsS, E. T. Amulets.and mottoes. J. Roy. As. Soc., i.
SPENCER, HERBERT. The data of ethics. D. Appleton & Co.
THompson, E. H. Atlantis not a myth. Pop. Se. Month., Oct.
VIZETELLY, E. Blue Beard. (Gentleman’s Mag.) Saturday Mag., April 5,°5 pp.
WaALnHoUSE, M. J. Rag-bushes and kindred observances. J. Anthrop. Inst., Aug.
West of Scotland folk lore. Chambers’ Journ., Sept.
WESTWARD spread of some Indian metaphors and myths. Indian Antiquary, June.
WILLIAMS, Monrer. Indian folk lore. Indian Antiquary, Aug.
——. Indian mother worship. Athen., Dec. 6.
Wixson, J. Folk-lore notes. Ind. Antiquary, Aug.
ALLGEMEINE Versammlung der deutschen anthropologischen Gesell!schaft zu Strassburg, Aug. 11-13.
ANALES del museo nacional de México.
ANTANANARIVO and Madagascar Magazine. Published by the mission aries of the London Missionary Society since 1875.

<<<Page: 473>>>

ANTHROPOLOGICAL Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Journ., vol. viii, 3 and 4; ix, 1 and 2.
ANTHROPOLOGISCHE Gesellschaft at Vienna. Mittheilungen, i, 1876.
ARCHAOLOGICAL Institute of America. Edward H. Greenleaf, sec. Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. (An association for promoting and directing archeological investigation and research.)
Arcuty fiir Anthropologie, 1, 1856. Organ der deutschen Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte.
ARCHIVIO per Vantropologia e Ja etnologia, i, 1871. Organ of the Societa italiana di antropologia e di etnologia.
ASSOCIATION francaise pour Vavancement des sciences. Comptesrendus. ;
1-6, 187176. :
BANDELIER, AD. IF. The National Museum of Mexico and the sacrificial stones. Am. Antiquarian, ii, 1.
BARBER, E. A. Anthropological news in the American Antiquarian.
——. Archeology and ethnology of the Permanent Exhibition, Philadelphia.
BARENBACH, FRIEDRICH VON. Principles of a critical philosophy: prolegomena to an anthropological philosophy. Leipzig, J. A. Barth.
BEAvUVo!s, E. Les nouvelles publications d’archéologie septentrionale. Matériaux, 4° livr.
BERLINER Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. Verhandlungen, 1871.
BERTILLON, JACQUES. Review of Jourdanet’s “ Histoire véridique de la conquéte de la Nouvelle-Espagne, par le capitaine Bernal Diaz del Castillo” (Paris, G. Masson). In Rev. @anthrop., avril.
3IBLIOGRAPHIE paléoethnologique italienne pour l’année 1878. Matériaux, 3° livr.
BritisH Association for the Advancement of Science. Reports 1-45, 183175.
BrRitisu Association, Sheffield. (Papers on Africa and Afghanistan were read before the geographical subsection.)
CALCUTTA Review.
CALLAMAND, E. Review of the most important papers of the Bull. Soe. @Vanthrop. de Paris for 1877. In Rev. @anthrop., avril.
CAPE Monthly Magazine.
CATALOG der anthropologischen Sammlungen der Universitit Freiburg. Arch. f. Anthrop., xi, suppl., 86 pp.
CHANTRE, E. Inauguration du Musée anthropologique de Lyon. Bull. Soc. @anthrop. de Par., 1879, ii, 122.
Comité Warchéologie américaine. a. Actes publiés sous la direction de la commission de rédaction par les sécrétaires, tome I, i-in, 1865. b. Annuaire, 1863-1867. 1 v, 8°. Continued in the Société américaine de France.

<<<Page: 474>>>

CoNGRES des anthropologistes allemands en 1878. Matériaux, 2° livr.
CoNGRHES international des américanistes. Comptes-rendus, 1875. 2 v. 8°.
CoNnGRES international des américanistes. Troisitéme session. Bruxelles, du 23 au 26 septembre.
CoNGRES international des orientalistes. Comptes-rendus, sess. 1-2, 187374.
CoNGRES internationaux @anthropologie, etc. Rev. se., fév. 1.
First congress at Neuchatel, 1866. I. Desor, president.
Second congress at Paris, 1867. Edouard Lartel, president.
Third congress at Norwich, 1868. John Lubbock, president.
Fourth congress at Copenhagen, 1869. Professor Worsaae, president. Fifth congress at Bologne, 1871. Count Gozzadini, president.
Sixth congress at Bruxelles, 1873. Omalius d’Halloy, president. Seventh congress at Stockholm, 1874. M. Hamilton, president. Eighth congress at Budapest, 1876. M. Pulszky, president.
CONGRESS of Orientalists at St. Petersburg, third international. Proceedings published in June.
Cust, ROBERT. Report on anthropological proceedings at the Oriental Congress at Florence, Sept. 12-18, 1878. J. Anthrop. Inst., Feb.
DEUTSCHE Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie, und Urgeschichte. (General meetings are migratory.) Allgemeine Versammlung, 1873.
DEUTSCHE morgenliindische Gesellschaft, Leipzig. Abhandlungen, i, 1859; Jahresbericht, 1845; Zeitschrift, i, 1847.
Dorsey, J. OWEN. Suggestion to collectors of ethnological material. Am. Antiquarian, Jan.
DUTRIEUX and CAMBIER. Association internationale africaine. 8°. 64 pp. Bruxelles, Etterbeik.
EVANS, JoHN. Presidential address before the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. J. Anthrop. Inst., May. (This is an admirable résumé of the work of the institute for one year.)
FonDoucE, P. CAZALIS DE. La Société royale des architects et archéologues portugais.
Fo.Lk-LorRE Society’s Record. (Mr. Thomas Satchell has a bibliography of folk-lore in preparation.)
FRENCH Association for the Advancement of Science, at Montpellier. Account in Rev. @anthrop., octobre.
HeEGER, FRANZ. Aus dem Sammlungen des Hofmuseums in Wien. Mitth. d. anthrop. Gesellsch. in Wien, Mai.
IsSAURAT. Review of the principal Italian works on anthropology for 1878. In Rev. @anthrop., avril.
JOURNAL of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
KALTBRUNNER, D. Manuelduvoyageur. 8°. 762 pp. Zurich, Wurster.
LAGNEAU, GUSTAV. Carte ethnologique de France. Rev. Wanthrop., juillet.
LENHOSSEK, J. Study of anthropology essential to modern education. Orvosi hetil., Budapest, xxiii, 489,

<<<Page: 475>>>

LEYPOLDT. American Catalogue.
MADRAS (The) Journal of Literature and Science.
Mason, O. T. Anthropological notes. Am. Naturalist, Jan.—Dec.
Translation of Paul Broca’s discourse at the opening of the International Congress of Anthropological Sciences. Am. Antiquarian, i, No. 4.
MATERIAUX pour histoire de VPhomme, i, 1864. Toulouse, France. See Scudder’s Catalogue, 1440.
MorEAu, Eure. Notice sur la carte préhistorique du département de la Mayenne. Matériaux, 4° livr.
MorTILLET, G. DE. Le Congres anthropologique de Moscou. Rev. sc., novembre 22.
———. L’Exposition anthropologique de Moscou. Rev.se., novembre 1.
MUNCHENER Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. Beitriige zur Anthropologie und Urgeschichte Bayerns,
. i, 1876.
NATURE. London, vol. 1-15, 1869-80.
NEW ZEALAND Institute. Transactions and proceedings. Wellington, i, 1868.
OHLENSCHLAGER, Prof. F. Priihistorische Kear von Bayern, im Anschluss an die von deutschen anthropologischen Gesellschaft vor: bereitete prihistorische Gesammtkarte Deutchslands. Beitriige zur Anthrop. Bayerns, Bd. iii, Heft 1, Munich.
PHILOSOPHICAL Suciety of Victoria, Philosophical Institute of Victoria, and Royal Sociéty of Victoria, Australia. (AJL publish transactions.) Seudder, 3846-3848.
PoMMEROL, F. Nouvelles publications d’anthropologie de langue allemande. Matériaux, 5° livr.
RAMBAUD, ALFRED. Le Congres de Kazan. Rey. scientifique, avril.
REVUE W@anthropologie, i, 1872. Paris, France.
REVUE orientale et américaine, Paris. See Scudder, No. 1528.
RIALLE, GIRARD DE. Review of the eighth congress of German anthropologists at Constance (1877). Rev. @anthrop., avril.
——. Review upon the ninth congress of anthropologists at Kiel, 1875.
Rosny, L&on DE. Le Congres international des américanistes 4 Bruxelles. Rev. se., oct. 11.
Roya Asiatic Society of London, Auxiliaries. Scudder’s numbers: Bengal, 3780; Caleuttd, 3790; Ceylon, 3793; Hong Kong, 3795; Madras, 3799 ; Sienatieu 3811; Yokohama, 3825.
ROYAL Society of London. (F or a ona of pablnation® see Seudder’s Catalogue.)
RoyAL Society of Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen. Annales, Mé. moires, Revue archéologique, and Bulletin. See Seudder’s Catalogue.

<<<Page: 476>>>

SABIN (JOSEPH) & Sons. A dictionary of books relating to America from its discovery to the present time. Parts lxviiand lxviii. 89. (An indispensable work of reference to students, which should be in every public library.)
Saint Lours Loan Exhibition of Archeology, 1879. No date.
SCHAAFFHAUSEN, H. Notes upon various anthropological meetings in France and Germany, well worked up. Archiv f. Anthrop., xii, 1, pp: 105-128.
SocréTE américaine de France, Paris. See Seudder’s No. 1553.
Soci£rk danthropologie de Paris. Bulletins and Mémoires. Scudder, 1556.
SOCIETE asiatique de Paris. Journal and Rapports. Scudder, 1561.
Socrery of Biblical Archeology. Transactions, 1572, i.
Socinry of the Friends of Natural Sciences at Moscow. Account in Rev. @anthrop., octobre.
SPINGEL, J. W. Die von Blumenbach gegriindete anthropologische Sammlung der Universitat Gottingen. Arch. f. Anthrop., xi, Suppl. 93 pp.
SirrepA, L. P. Die anthropologische Ausstellung in Moscou, I, i, 1879. 12°, Dorpat.
TRANSACTIONS and proceedings of the New Zealand Institute.
TyLor, KE. B. Recent anthropology. Pop. Se. Month., Dec. (British Association address.) :
Vaux, W.S. W. Works on oriental learning, published in 1878. Annual Rep. Roy. As. Soc.
. VERSAMMLUNG (Gesellschaft der) der deutschen Naturforscher und Aerzte. (Corresponds to the American Association.) See Scudder, 2220.
VERSAMMLUNG Osterreichischer Anthropologen und Urgeschichteforscher in Laibach, 28, 29 Juli, 1879. Mittheilungen, Mai.
Victoria Institute, or Philosophical Society of Great Britain. a. Annual address and report, i, 1867. 6. Journal of the transactions, i, 1867. :
WEISBACH, A. Anthropométrie. Progrés méd., Par., 1879, vii, 353.
ZABOROWSKI. Section d’anthropologie de Association frangaise pour Vavancement des sciences, Paris, 1878. Rev. d’anthrop., janvier.
ZEITSCHRIFT fiir Ethnologie und ihre Hiilfswissenschaften. Berlin, i, 1869.

<<<Page: 477>>>

By GrorGE H. BOEHMER.
The letters and dates in the margin indicate whether the paper was published in the Contributions to Knowledge, quarto, and in which volume (S.C., ito xxii); in the Miscellaneous Collections, octavo (M.C.,i to xvil) ; or in the Annual Reports, octavo (R., 1847 to 1878, &e.); while the figures in the last column refer to the number assigned to the communication in
the List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution.
Authors, localities, and subjects.
Abbott. -Dr; ©.C.. stone age imi Ne wi) CLSOYien ae n= = iain olen ae ee ne ee olnleiiaele Aboriginal inhabitants of the California Peninsula, as given by Jacob Baegert, it translatedi by, Charl ésiRamesacen se aoe ecee ee ee ee oe an ee eee nee eee memes Aboriginal monuments of New York, by E.G.Squier ... .-....-..---..---.---ils Aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tenn., by TLarTisht stele cee: oe ae eee
Aboriginal ruins on the Williams farm, Hardin County, Tennessee, by J. Parish Stella aay ceisc Cee clas sec ee itn se ecink Sates ne one Sam ne gee usw Ise cea one
Aboriginal structures in Georgia, by Charles C. Jones, jr .----------------------Africa, stone celts in, by George AT GDB ess ete eS Re RG Cae Oe ee Agnew, Samuel A. , mounds i in | Mississippi PSSA BY LN arte RN eerie ete Agricultur al flint implements, deposit of, in Southern Tllinois, by Charles Rau ...Agric ultural implements of North American stone period, by Charles Rau ........ Alabama, Mobile River, shell-heaps on, by A.S. Gaines and K.M. Cunningham ... Aleutian ‘Islands, remains of later prehistoric mini Lye Vodeb OEM Woocccesece soca) ia PAmericaancienb DistoryAOk Diya Dra Mic hiteeee ok Ne raat Bee ie aeteeiare ieieetete Ancient monuments in the Mississippi Valley, by E. G. Squier and Dr. E. H. Davis, iAnderson, W., antiquities of Perry County, ORI 2s ee ee es oe Anthr opologic alunguirys by Charles» anwineecncedserses === sere eee eee eee Antiquities. See under the States and countries.
Archxological collections in the U. 8S. National Museum, by Charles Rau ---xxii--
Archxologie: 11 Congress, International .-.........-Archeological investigations in the United States, instructions for, prepared by George Ga cake So eee ee eae Sirigy Fale CA a eet Archeology and ethnology, circular for ....----.. ----.-----...---...--.-----Viii.Archeology, ceneralviewsion by, AeMorloti io ,.eseee. seeisesces eee ee te eee eo aeeee Archeology, Mexican, and history, by; Brantz Mayer -----<2-22. --Aono 1b. Are heolocy, ANOrtheAmerican Dye dhe DOC kee e ee eee eee aera erate Archeology ‘of the United States, Dosa elon On pees e senate anes sae ae Viii-. Are hwology, prehistoric, international code of symbols for charts Of ...-. ceca ‘ATIZONA, QO ClEN’ TUINAN IDV dO. pYcseOo eee Men seaen oe one oe sent aoe eeee ees Arizona, Pimo Indians of, by Capmieb Grossmane saree cen econ ne: saeee Oommen Arizona, Tonto-Apaches; by Capt: Charles|Smiarti: ceeaee seencs eces tees eee anes Arkansas, earthworks in, by Mrs. Gilbert Knapp. --=... << oes oes oe cee eecosens Arkansas, Phillip County, ancient pottery from, by J. H. Devereux ....-.. -..--.-Arrow-heads, deposit of, near Fishkill, N. Y., by Edw. M. Shepard.-...-.--..------Atlas; physicalor North America, byG. (Gibbs) coa--.oeene nee e ede cteseniasemoeee=
Baegert, Jacob, aboriginal inhabitants of California Peninsula --.-..........--...; |
Bailey, \WB> i: antiquities\of:Georpia) --csese cose cca ticee cases seaeteemesene Barrandt, Dr. A., ancient earthworks on the Upper Missouri-.-..-.........--..--.---. Borrands, Wxr.A., on Hayetack Mound: Dakota co.cceeeccesscscueeesccemeeceereeeee ‘Bartram, Johnivantiquities of Mlorida). (2 22-co. -sucnse. saenee econ eae eee eee Bead, colored, from a mound at Black Hammock, Florida, by A. M. Harrison...... Bex 1d, olychrome, from Florida, Prof. S. S. Haldem: ANDY, ceric ce pee cee c meena aee Berend, Dr. C. H., historical documents in Guatemala.......--..-...-cs--cse-es0.
3ere nat Dr. C. i” on the: Caribilanciares. 4. ree cece tee eee eee Berthoud, E. L., ancient remains in ‘Oploradoc a8 boot ee ae eee Berthoud, E. L., antiquities of Colorado Blondel: S35 ON: SAAS? oa. ste ais cee ee ee eee ee ere tend Sie eee ey te Blyden; Ed: Dimixed'racésrofibiberidy2oo siamese ec ce eee wone veer eon eens Bowen, 'T. J., Yoruba grammariand dichonary oe een eee ene ns 3825 Bowers, Rev. Stephen, Santa Rosa Island, California .............-..----.ee.-e---|
Date.
1875 1863 1864 1850 1570
1870 1877 1877 1867 1868 1863 1877 1878 1871 1848 1874 1867
1876 1866
1861 1867 1860 1856 1862 1856 1875 1872 1871 1867
| 1873
1866 1863 1864
| 1897
1870 1872 1874 1877 1877 1876 1873 1867 1871 1876 1870
1858 |
Number in list.

<<<Page: 478>>>

Authors, localities, and subjects.
Publication.
Bracket, Col. A. G., on the Sioux or Dakota Indians. -........-.----.--------------Brain and marrow of animals, uses of, among the Indians of North America, by FIVER COO sa ce tnc aa seer ee ica sie e aisle hoe cin siaiowie Sle ase sawieee seo eeciateenenisic
Breck eh ween cCarthwolks iny WaASCONSIMesnsecis asec ciatoe aticeceerese ce ateteeraen Breed phi apits at ee MbArressua\ Vas secee cecee eee aces oc se cimisdsiece sem icioocies ere Bridgeman, Laura, vocal sounds of, bv Francis Lieber .--...-..-..---.----.----alee Brinton, D. G., artificial shell deposits in the United States ..............-......--BintishyAmericay aunnehs indians) Ole ee cca A ene = =m am eleisiel nBdosesoocsdooco ace Broca, Paul, troglodytes in the valley of the Vezére ......-..-------=--.ece-----4-Brown. D., on shell-heaps in Georgia EEN eee Wonton st eaise asiaereeeantee Bruff, J. G., Indian engravings along Green River Valley .-:.----..----..--------Bryan, Oliver N., antiquities of Charles County, Maryland ........-.........-..--.
Bourialmenundsinpindiana, by wWalliamiPidgeonsesesse ce seoscee. see) coc cle cecte cs oe Burial of an Indian squaw, account of, by W.M. King ......---.-.-...2-..---.----Californias aboncimallinhabiwantso he scocseosccte cscs seiecisecisece tee cin = cisitacieioe ; California, cave in Calaveras County, by J. D. Whitney.........-----.---...------California, graves and shell-heaps, by Paul Schumawher .......-......-..-.--.----Californian diansiotsbyszstephenwb Ow ers seaacercaeee ee eee ses cecete sce ene lessee California, Santa Rosa Island, by Rev. Stephen Bowers ....-...--------------------Canada West, Prescott, remains near, by W. E. Guest........-.------.---.-------Cannon iGeorce ic. anvignitiesrot: Coloradoy seca seniciesc se niai= oe isie ala/oleleisiceey= late = @ape Mlattery,eindiansiof, by dames|Ge Swan... dae c <class ces cele onisies xvaee Cara Gigantesca, of Yzamal, Yucatan, remarks on, by Dr. Arthur Schott ......--. CaribllancuacesbyOrC He Benen by ss meceme cciacemineeiee isn a eiinnaacctictese ae = Carleton, Major, excursion to Ab6, Quarrd, and Gran Quivira, N. M............--Cave-dwellers. See Troglodytes. :
Cave in Calaveras County, California, by J. D. Whitney ........-.-.--.--.-...-.--Chase, H—3B.; flint implements in Holmes County, Ohio --.--.-.--.-5-.--.---------Chepewyan Indians. See Tinneh.
Chincoksjargon; dictionary.of, by G:iGibbs\s,cescecoeceecsaneiaccs sence liieciomie = Vii-Clank. Wr: jantiquibies) of Mennessee:.= sess <cie= 2 eae ceercicieiesiecis stelereie <iniiejaniee Cochrane, J., antiquities of Mason County, Illinois ............-.----.--.setae start Coloradovancient remains iny Dyke Berthoudereres.cecccne sear etcece cele ceee cee oe
Colorado, antiquities of Clear Creek and Jefferson Counties, by George L. Cannon. . Colorado, Weld County, antiquities on the Cache la Poudre River, by E. L. Berthoud Comfort, Dr. A. J., mounds near Fort Wadsworth, Dakota ...................-. Eanes Connecticut, ancient implement of wood, E. W. Ellsworth .......-....-..-.-.------Consanguinity and affinity, systems of, by L. H. Morgan .......----.-.-.----
Coptic language, introduction to the study of the, by M. Kabis Coronado’s march in search of the ‘‘seven citics of Cibola,” &c., by General J. W.
SMP SONU Sed ele pe ee mes Gea eee sec ame itis eis aac cisidejaceeesiotees clacton scien R. Graniopilolveticay by. bred. ro, oni pane aac eesemcwce casi ease nes te sere os ose ea seee %. @roolk-|GeneralliGeorcesarronysand finesmakine joo coe pseee eects oclse acces ee a s/eses R. Culbertson; -ChadedvAc | Siouxof the, Upper MissOurit-co--sess eee eae oe. eects R. Cunningham) Kee, shell-heapsion, Mobile River-\s---2.2..-52-.--4es--c-eceeeseccceVi Cushing, Frank H., antiquities of Orleans County, New York........--...--..----R. Cutis; db ancient relics-in Norbinwesterm Low aes sso.) clecccacc cece clececiee hk. Dakota, Yort Wadsworth, mounds near, by Dr. A. J. Comfort....................--Re Dakota crammar and dictionary, by S.R. Riggs..-....------.-.s2+-s-s2-00---=-LVie= Ios. Dakota Indians. See Sioux.
Walota, Lincoln! County, moundsiny by, A; Barrandt)-...-<. << cece ccs ocacee oasceces: R. Wall jWi-E., onvlateriprehistoniemaninneAlasaa isso sc. csc acccec cs nesseeumee KRIS oe WanilsonyAnhe mound ni hash LennesseGues et neee eterno. sat wee aie eenonocs ve Darwil. Charles; anphnropolopicaluinguuiryace scence nensasaecee oc vee aeeleseeeeoeeice ts Davis, A..C., antiquities of Isle Royale; Lake Superior! --::-5-... 2-222. 2.--6 25.22 Re Mavis iro On ethnologicaliresearchy.. cme eectcce nara e teak neniocele maciiece sine aR Davis. See E.G. Squier.
Maytonwkh. A... explorations an Tennessee. . ce cceocisumentee scene sae n se ewcc ce cece cise R. Dears Ces OTMONINE IT WaSCON GIN eee ete oie eee eee ee ee ere SR NE We Deposit of arrow-heads near Fishkill, N. Y., by Edw. M. Shepard..-.............-.. %. Deposits of flint implements in the United States, by J. F. Snyder .......-.-.....--a Wesor lM palatittesio£ WalewNeuch ately. sae sess seccceccns cee cecccteecitocuccsucene oh Devore, il. Ls, acient potteryacom ATrkansasmeesestens soece cee neemee ese soccince R. Devereux, J. H., relics presented to the Smithsonian Institution ---.. Bee aoe meee ts Dilewerskercmotoncient ecarunworlsin ObiOne nr. seer see eee reece anne ve District of Columbia, Washington, prehistoric remains in the vicinity of .........-. R; Doves Draws. on lndian tortsiand dwellingsa-: sepeeeenees se eee echoes een eeenes |) eee Drilling in stone: without metal, by Charles Rat. .2.2co.cc ino eee eck. Rs Dunning, 1.0. antiquities in Tennessee ......-..2 2. cece. neces Beeler Sie eee are Re Earthwork, double-walled, in Ashtabula County, Ohio, by Stephen D. Peet ...-.-.-t Earthworks, ancient, of Ashland County, Ohio, by George W. Hill .......-......-R. Earthworks, ancient, on the Upper Missouri, by A. Barrandt............-...-..--. Oe HS CUNVOLCS MM VASCONSLD: DVelus gor Ce On oeaaeeee nee ee ner ae ee eee eo cm ive ee ears te Earthworks on the Arkansas River, Arkansas, by Mrs. Gilbert Knapp. .....--...-. v Earthworks, ancient, sketch of, by I. Dille.......... FRABCOR TDDB OLE eB BoCoseoseeueos R.
Date.
1870 1872 1877 1850 1866 1866 1872 1871 1872 1874
1863 1867 1874 1863 1864 1867 1874 1876 1877 1856 1877 1870 1869 1873 1854
1867 1877
1863 1877 1877 1867 1877 1871 1871 1876 1869 1867
1869 1864 1871 1850 1867 1874 1872 1871 1852
1872 1878 1863 1867 1874 1866
1870 1872 1877 1876 1865 1872 1872 1866 1872 1876 1868 1870 1876 1877 1870 1872 1877 1866
ue ~l ~|
Number in list.

<<<Page: 479>>>

Authors, localities, and subjects.
Elephant mound in Grant County, Wisconsin, by Jared Warner .--.---.-.----------Engravings on the face of rocks clong Green River Valley, in the Sierra Nevada, by DM GE UB TE. bots. te See an ee SE Sen eta ergs ee Pr Seep eee Seen ea
Hgtess Dr. Ce antiquities of Minncsotalpmee pee seas eeeeeheneee cease ee eeee Ethnological research, a communication trom Dr. E. He Davis: soy chee Ethnology and philology, INSELUCTIONS 101 .DV; Gt Gd DDS iste = ete aoe vii... Kthnology, from the Tondon. Atheneum. ss itiantcncshee beet onknceere teat an eee
Etnnology, present state of, in relation to the form of the human skull b; Prof.
Sanders Retzidses../.coes. weston. laa Roepe oe MO Oo ean eee en Ethnology, physical, lecture on, by Dr. Daniel Wilson Europe, high antiquity in, by ‘A. Movlot sc cee ceca an ea Lae Europe, Middle, fauna, &e., by Dr. L. Riitimeyer -wissatdc Farquharson, Dr. R. Tiss skull and long bones from mound in Illinois ......-..-----. Fauna of Middle Europe during the stone age, by Dr. L. Ritimeyer Reese’ Finck, Hugo, antiquities in the state of Vera Cr 2: Miexico:s) 4 ares ys Be oe Five, Indian mode of obtaining, and of making arrowheads, by General George |
TODAS 54 cae eee, ree ee eck Sie ene Meee } Flint implements i in Holmes County, Ohio, by H. B. Chiade seat ere en een Florida, antiquities of, by Dr. Augustus Mitchell .-....---.--.---------------------
Florida, antiquitiesiof, Dyclohn) Bantramiles oe sen eee eee se eee e see ene eee aera noe ;
Flor ida, bead from mound i ATI ye Ave le eT SOT ey eee ee Bee sine aa aee Florida, gold ornament {rom mound i Inu hanlesuRantony aoe ae ase eee ee eee Florida, polychrome bead trom, by Prof. S78. baldeman iyo a eee Fort, ancient, and burial ground, in Tompkins County, N. Y., by D. Trowbridge. Forts, Indian, and dwellings, Wy IDES Nie JOE IDL AG) = eacRc Shot Sheen se Sho scoseccose Foster, J. H., ancient Telio foundlin MUSSOULIES. Ses ceeesee ck ee eed French Exposition of 1867, ethnological department of the ..-....-----.----.-------Friel, poserh, antiquities Fifa oY ts (c) aa TU RE A ed ETRY AAA “SS Gaine Shs zsbell: heaps on Mobile River, Alabama-..---.--Bo sia sca nalalselemeieeeied Galt, Dr. a indians Of IPGrUtecsse con eek oe eed a eo cee Se closer et paar a aero Gardner, Wr. tw H., Indians of the Red River of the North ..-.-.--------.--.---Georgia, aboriginal structures in, by Charles C. Jones, jr .------------------------Georgia, Bartow County, mounds in, Dye Veh Steplecsonteere sn esse-ee eeeeeeaar Georsia, Early County, mounds in, by AWalliamuMcltinleyspeceesessen ceca aeoeesees Georgia, McIntosh County, mounds in, by William ey Sac oee eos dsecadsencs Georgia, mounds in, by M. “RUStephensom,oce) Pe cage usenet ead an eee ere Georgia, shellheaps i in, by D. Brown. Georgi a, Spalding County, antiquities of, by “W.B. FE. Bailey So sdscndas:sorosesssce? Gibbs, George, archeology in\thesUmited| States sere seen aekeceacaeeessenesen ee nee Gibbs, G., die tionary of Chinook SPORE = SS 356 5-a55 na soab dor Soot ee asatocesSs¢ Vil. . Gibbs, George, INteLMLXbuLo Ol LACESseee ee es eee eee bere see Oee aan sete aaa Gibbs, G., instructions for ethnology and philology .------------------------Vii-Gibbs, G. lancuacelof the Indiansjof)Americatess--eoee ee esse sao) a-e aaa ae Gibbs, George, Onithe;hinnehy indians pee eeesee acre eeesee es-ES eee eee eee eee Gibbs, G., phy aical atlas of North America... a. oc.camencessnccad kine le Saeco ee oe Gibbs, George J., celts in Africa and the. West Indies-.--<.-..---2.--/... 6-2 coc. Gillman, Henr Y ancient man in Michitdnie ss see: see secre eee eee ne ne eee Gillman, Henry, platycnemism in Michigan jangdd sass socneeodsntacosdaocno: socetee= Gliddon’ mummy case, by, Charles Pickering ye see eace eens dam cela eerie XVils Gold ornament from a mound in Florida, by Charles Rau...-...------.---------.--Grammar and dictionary of the Carib or Karif language, by Dr. C. H. Berendt .-.. Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota, by S. R. Riggs ..---. -----.--.-----iv.. Grammar and dictionary of the Yoruba language, by aD di DOW ED i-=sa—ssee eee op Grant, Edw. M., stone image in Tennessee -.------. 2 ---22. 22-25 -5-----=e Graves, ancient, and shellheaps of California, by Paul Schumacher. -..---..--.---Green River Valley, engravings, &¢., by J. (OMe chi pen ge tet an Aaya Ta Noy Grossman, Capt. F. E. , Pimo Indians OATIZONAL <<. . 2. 2 felo.cee eae oeeacee eee Guatemala, antiquities in, by Hon. George Williamson. ....-.....:.....e Sede cocsoce Guatemala, historical documents i in, by Dr One. Berendtiss once eee eee eee ee Guatemala, sculptures of Santa Lucia, yao th abelescee ree atedese sesame eee 2 ootlae Guest, W. E., Indian remains near Prescott, Canada. West....-..-.. Wowie coece te aes Gunn, De remains in Red River settlement Lisinlaaiae asa elcersae wale’ seis om eutce. Rae eet Habel, Dr.S., sculptures of Santa Lucia, Guatemala ............-..-.-...--..-XXil.. Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte Islands, by J. G. Swan ....-..------------“Ko. Haile, Rev. Joshua, on antiquities of Jackson Countysadennesseoeenne.seee eens Haldem an, Prof. S. wo on a polychrome bead from Florida ........-..-...--.-.--.---Hardisty, William ioe therLoucheux Indimns aoe | aaae mesa ne ne eee eects sees Harrison, A. M., colored bead from mound in Florida ...........-22sseee-eenneeeeeee Hart, de, JN. , osteology of the mound-builders of Wisconsin..-....---------.------He wrwood, Rear-Admiral A. A., U.S. N. -, on a sarcophagus from Syria.....-.--------Haven, 8. I. archeology of the United States... 0... eee ee ViiiHayden, Ur rr We , notes on Indian history... SRS ce calaec cea ee C Ree oeneaues
Date.
1872 1866 1866 1863 1863
1859 1862 1864 1861 1874 1861 1870
1871 1877 1874 1874 1877 1877 1877 1863 1876 1863 1867 1877 1877 1877 1870 1877 1872 1872 1872 1870 1871 1877 1861 1863 1864 1863 1870 1866 1866 1877 1875 1873 1867 1877 1873 1852 1858 1870 1874 1872 1871 1876 1876 1878 1856 1867 1878 1874 1874 1877 1866 1877 1877 1870 1856 1867 1866 1862 1864 1877 1874 1876

<<<Page: 480>>>

bh “1 ies)
% : a 8 A Authors, localities, and subjects. ss a S 22 a S Se Wiese oy = A History and archeology, Mexican, by Brantz Mayer .-.-...----------------------ix..| S.C. | 1856 86 Hotchkiss, T. P., remains in Caddo Parish, Louisiana -....----.----------------+----%. | 1872 271 Hudson's Bay Territory, Red River settlement, Indian remains in, by D. Gunn ..--. R. | 1867 215 Human remains from Patagonia, by Dr. A. Ried .....-....-----------+ +--+ +e ee eee ee R. | 1862 150 Hungary, antiquities of, by F. F. Romer .--...-......-.---202-0 ---222-222 eee ee R. | 1876 299 Nlinois, Albany, mounds near, by Dr. R. J. Farquharson ..---------------------++-+%. | 1874 286 Illinois, Lawrence County, antiquities of, by Dr. A. Patton .....----------------%. | 1873 275 Illinois, Mason County, antiquities of, by J. Cochrane. .-......----------------------2. | 1877 823 Mllinois, Mercer County, mound in, by Tyler Mc Worter .-.....---------------------R. | 1874 286 Illinois, Rock Bluff, human skull from, by Dr. J. A. Meigs .--...-...----------------R. | 1867 215 Illinois, Rock River Valley mounds, by James Shaw..-........-------------+--------: R. | 1877 323 Hlinois, Rock Island, shell-bed skull from, by A. S. Tiffany ...-...--.---------------%. | 1s74 286 MIlinois, Southern, deposit, &c., by Charles Rau ....-.-.-----------------+--+--+-----%. | 1868 224 Illinois, Union County, antiquities of, by Thomas M. Perrine ..-----.------.--------%. | 1873 275 Illinois, Whiteside County, antiquities of, by W. H. Pratt.......-...-------------%. | 1574 286 Implement of wood, ancient, found in Connecticut, by E. W. Ellsworth. --..---.----t% | 1876 299 Indiana, Allen County, antiquities of, by R.S. Robertson...-.....-----------------%. | 1874 2386 Indiana, burial-mound!in, by William Pidgeon: -......22.....2 J2.-.. 2-----+2-----=-%. | 1867 215 Indiana, De Kalb County, antiquities of, by R.S. Nobertson..-...-.----------------%. | 1874 286 Indiana, Knox County, antiquities oi, by Dr. A. Patton .......-----.---.----------%. | 1873 275 Indiana, La Porte County, antiquities of, by R.S. Robertson ........--------------%. | 1874 236 Indian history, notes on, by Dr. F. V. Hayden ..--. --..-...2-.----------!22--22--2-t. | 1867 215 Indians. See California, Cape Flattery, Carib, Dakota, Haidah, Kutchin, Loucheux, Mandan, Maya, Navajo, Nevada, Peru, Portraits, Ked River of the North, Sioux, Tinneh, Tonto. Intermixture of races, by. George Gibbs. ~..-. <2 --20 2 cee ee eee we enn e ec cens oe R. | 1864 188 Iowa, Delaware County, mounds ig, by M. W. Moulton .........------------------eo, Wf ANSLEY 323 Vowarancient Lencsam: Dyess O WbbS soe alias tale morale sieleieicle mal ae setae = miiale wlaial-laieinl=> 2. °| 1872 271 Isle Royale, Michigan, antiquities of, by A. C. Davis :.....-:.-...--------+-------g. | 1874 286 Jade, study of the mineral called ‘‘yu”’ by the Chinese, by S. Blondel.-.-..-.---.---%. | 1376 299 Jones, C.C.) jr.,-aborigimal structures in Georgia. -22. ..o 22. caw eee wenn enn ---) 2 == Re) | LST. 323 Jones, Dr. Joseph, antiquities-of Tennessee -..-....-..---------------------xxii..| S.C. | 1876 259 Jones, J. M., Kjoekken-Moeddings in Nova Scotia.......-.--..+------------+------%. | 1863 187 Jones, Strachan, the Kutchin Indians .... 2.22.2 000.202. ones eens eee esc ee%. | 1866 214 Kabis, M., study of the Coptic language ......---....---.-----Laadna saRosSeSuSueHe t. | 1867 215 Keller, O. H., account of ancient town in Minnesota. .....-..--..--.---------------R. | 1863 187 Keller, Dr., report on lacustrian settlements in Switzerland ......-.--.---.+-------t. | 1863 187 Kentucky, ancient mound in, by Dr. Robert Peter.......---. Re couassesccusanctasoor sh |) dueyir2 271 entice cy aihiG Olies LOM. Dyp ses VOM eee. fe winjs cela an ielnlein gle) 22> enlealnl= -\nlelam sini 3. | 1858 109 Kentucky, Breckinridge County, age of stone, &c., by RS. Robertson.-.-....-..---. R 1874 286 Kentucky, Hancock County, antiquities of, by Joseph Mricl.-...--..--..----------v. | 1877 323 Kentucky, Lexington, mound near, by Dr. Robert Peter.--...-.----.--. -. -------kh. | 1871 249 Kentucky, Union County, ancient mound in, by 8.8. Lyon ..-.--------------------%. | 1870 244 ain ose Viens ACCOUNT Obs lmedian DUT alesse See mee ee oelncce sean nine amelie si <= alae R. | 1874 286 Kipp, James, on Catlin’s account of the Mandans .-.---Po sne ce mon cbecoabene DO Shelia %. | 1872 271 Kjoekken-Moeddings in Nova Scotia, by J. M. Jones ..-.-----Be Le ee ate ae t. | 1863 187 Kjoekken-Moeddings on the northwest coast of America, by Paul Schumacher ....}| R. | 1875 275 Kjoekken-Moedding. See shell-heaps. Knapp, Mrs. Gilbert, earthworks on Arkansas River..---..--------------+ Baperenoce R. | 1877 323 Rone Hedi. a oIMIeSs OLeNOrtln Carol ais. s0 a2 22) science elaine le ieee = melalele l= a R. | 1874 286 Kushkushkee, Indian village near Neweastle, Pa., by E. M. McConnell.......-----%. | 1871 249 RaTGChin ind Ansa Dye StLACH ANTON CS ee oe mies rae eye lale ate ralelala atatcletaleletetetes tere ie loretaye elt ariatar al R. | 1866 214 GAC UISHIAMIC TOS) OLA WUZOTIAN Gee asaya (aries) sa\ninisysletetsicla istermicier aia Soe Mane seesiae 2. | 1861 149 Lacustrian constructions, or palafittes, of the lake of Neuchatel, by E. Desor .-..-. %. | 1865 209 Lacustrian settlements in Switzerland, Dr. Keller and A. Morlot .......-----..-.--%. | 1863 187 Language of the aboriginal Indians of America, by G. Gibbs. ........---------.-.--%. | 1870 244 Lapham, L., antiquities of Wisconsin --.-fot OEE site eee eee ee nano et Vil..| 8... | 1855 70 Latimer collections of antiqzities from Porto Rico, by Otis T. Mason .-.-.....-...-..R. | 1876 299 Lee, J. C. Y., ancient ruins in Arizona ........-Bhat Pte aster on Leste ne oecna ane R. | 1872 271 Leipzig Museum of Ethnology, by A. Schott and Otis T. Mason. .....--...-.---..--%. | 1873 275 Letherman, J.,.M. D:.sketch ot the Navajo Indians ....-.......-.--.----------------| IR. | 1855 77 Hiberia;mixed:races‘of, by Hdl), Blyden’-.-. 222... -c cn -ceae penta sth casise ses = %. | 1870 244 Lieber, Francis, vocal sounds of Laura Bridgeman. .<-..------2-2--2--<---20+---i.) SiC. | 1850 12 iockett, Corot samuel He. MOUNndS Am OWS AMA ee a) eects aelale/staeleise oeiara ein istaa crema ine 2. .| 1872 271 Mouchoruxludians. bys Walliam Wo. Hardistyaseratetstes cise eieisiseic)-eitsc cee siin ee ose R. | 1866 214 Tousiane. Caddo Parish, remainsiin, by eR. Motehkiss\sjeccscec css cass i-cs= %. | 1872 271 Louisiana, mounds in, by Prof. Samuel H. Lockett............-. Te a See ae y, | 1872 271 Lubbock, Sir Jolin, North American archeology... 65... 5s. 2-2-2022 een ae nace e own %. | 1862 160 Mp boCks sit John onthe lower races Of Manse cee cet cseieitices —-o-m9 -Sec ee oie cies ccicles 2. | 1869 228 Lyon, S.S.,antiquities from Kentucky .....-Pena ee eres hE coef baccele. %. | 1858 109 you; S.9., mound inOnion County, Wentucky: sa.2. <2 ceeedulow sab cece cc so cceencee t. | 1870 244 TSVOn Mies: aMtiquiies in INeWeMlexiGO: «= <ceuas seme mnbtecies dele mivisis/= cis <1 ce ciel =e wintale ees TL 249 ykins, W. H: R., antiquities of Kansas City, Mo... .-sole. uele asst eect te wecclece Me alsyi7/ 323 Maps, ethnological, of North America, by L. H. Morgan...........2..--------+---+-%. | 1861 149 Maryland, Charles County, antiquities of, by O. N. Bryan ......-.... te J aie oTateeaeies t. | 1874 286 Mason, Otis) 0.) atimer collection fron) Porto hicolessoses sec cece. cetlen ccs cciecceees % | 1876 299 Mason; Otis d:, Leipzig Museum of Bthnolowy. 22.2. -s.c2-.eee cent cece cen cer cuan a= %. | 1873 275 Maya sculpture, ancient relic of, by Dr. Arthur Schott................02----s-05-00: R. | 1871 249 Mayer, Brantz, Mexican history, &¢ ....-....... eireceneeeise Beers Reaeteacee ix..| S.C. | 1856 86

<<<Page: 481>>>

Authors, localities, and subjects. oe ie
ee ile
iB) | wee
eee McConnell. M. Indian village Kushkushkee---o ./)25-ces-ee2 -=2-eee beenees R 1871 249 McHenry, James W., antiquities of Jackson County, Tennessee ..-..--..-----.----R. | 1874 286 MeKaunley-Walliam;moundsiniGeorrian se sence seeeeee anaes sate ecee ere cee ee seee R. | 1872 271 MeWhorter, Tyler, mound in Mercer County, Illinois..............-.---------.----R. | 1874 286 Mexican history and archeology, by Brantz Mayer............-..--.2-.-------ix..| S.C. | 1856 86 Mexico, state of Vera Cruz, antiquities in, by Hugo Finck ...-..-..--.--.----------R. | 1870 24t Mica mines, ancient, in North Carolina, by. Dr. C.D. Smith.......-....-.........-.-. R. | 1876 299 Michi ganvancienmt mani in, byHenrys Gillman: ssceee ene see eee en aeceecmencee ees R. | 1875 298 Michigan, mound-builders, &c., by Henry Gillmam.:--.-.---.20---------ens--ee---R. | 1873 275 Michigan, Isle Royale, antiquities of, by A.C. Davis......-.--.----.-----2---------R. | 1874 286 Migration, American, by Frederick von Hellwald...................---------------R. | 1866 214 Miller, F., mound in ‘Trambull County, Ohio --. --....-...-..Fem gachaaneesuooe doe R. | 1877 323 Mining, ancient, on Lake Superior, by Charles Whittlesey ........--.--.-----xili..| S.C. | 1863 155 Minnesota, ancient town in, account of, by O. H. Keller. .......--...-.-.-----------R. | 1863 187 Minnesota, Lake Pepin, antiquities on, by Dr. L. C. Estes......-.---..------.------R. | 1866 214 Minnesota, Mississippi River, antiquities on, by Dr. L. C. Estes .....-..---.--.-----R. | 1866 214 Minnesota, Red River of the North, Indians of, by Dr. W. H. Gardner ............. R. | 1870 244 MISSissippi Mmoundsin iby, sampelvAL Aonows-nsae eee deeeeine snaeeeeneeeeeeeesees R. | 1867 215 IMIssissippis stock indirade.. ces by. Charles Rause= sae see eee ee eee eeee sec nae R. | 1877 823 Mississippi Valley, ancient monuments in, by Squier and Davis ...-...-..-..-..i..| S.C. | 1848 1 Mississippi, Yazoo County, antiquities of, by J. W. C. Smith ........-.-..-.-.-.--. R. | 1874 286 Missourivancientirelie) found any by J. We Hoster’---))sss-2-pe-\seeee sess -eeeseeesere R. | 1863 187 Missouri, Kansas City, antiquities of, by W. H.R. Lykins ......-....----.--.-----Rs. | AST 323 Missouri River, ancient earthworks on the, by A. Baurrandt .....-..--akuateace oe R. | 1870 244 Missouri, Saint Louis, ancient mound at, by T. R: Peale........----...------------R. | 1861 149 Missouri, Upper, Sioux of the, by hadd. A. Culbertson.-.......-...-----------2---R. | 1850 28 Mitchell, Dr. Augustus, antiquities of Florida ...........-:.--------Peon acenooes R. | 1874 286 Mitchel, B. R., and W. W. Turner, jargon of Oregon ...---..--..----SEE oReOCaeualaetee 1853 68 Morgan, L. H., circular respecting degrees of relationship........-.--.---------li..| M.C.| 1860 138 Morean? jE... ethnologicalimapiof North Americnis2ces. 2-5-6 eee aes R. | 1861 149 Morgan, L. H., systems of consanguinity and affinity .-....-.......--.-.---.-Xvii..| S.C. | 1869 218 Morlot, A., lacustrian settlements in Switzerland ---....---<--------------=------R. | 1863 187 Morlot, An joeneral views on archmology:. cc sscce occa cdencee -risiecie seco saeeete ee cere R. | 1860 147 MorlotcAlsthe study of birhvantiquitiygqosasnesseecieeesmicecesssee ocesbomeeeeee R. | 1862 150 Morlot,-A® the study (of high:antiquityini Murope ---s-ce.6-2 eee eee eee %. | 1864 188 Moulton, M. W., mounds in Delaware County, lowa,.--....--.------------<+-------Re |alSiin 323 Moundeanciont at Sain GMeOu Is WLOrs loyal euee, COU) eee ate eet nese eee teeta ate eros R. | 1861 149 Mound, ancient, in Union County, Kentucky, exploration of, by S8.S. Lyon ..-...----R. | 1870 244 Mound, ancient, in Western Pennsylvania, by William M. Vaylor..-.....-..-.-.--.-% | 1877 323 Mound, ancient, near Chattanooga, Tenn., by M.C. Reed ...-.--....-.-axguajssoeeeeee R. | 1867 215 Mound, Big Elephant, in Grant County, Wisconsin, by Jared Warner...-....---.--. pre || asi? 271 Mound-builders and platyenemism in Michigan, by Henry Gillman..-.........--.--t. | 1873 275 Mound-builders in the Rock River Valley, Illinois, by James Shaw .-.---..--------2. | 1877 323 Mound-builders of Wisconsin, mounds and osteology of the, by J. N. de Hart....-.--.R. | 1877 323 Mound (Haystack) in Lincoln County, Dakota, by A. Barrandt..............--.----R. | 1872 271 Mound anHast Dennessée, by A.B: Wanilson) 5-22. 2-2.) sects eee see eee eseteeee == R. | 1863 187 Mound in Florida, Charles Rau on gold ornament from ....-..---.-----------------Re LST 323 Monndinikentielsy, by Dr nobertuie eter errs: ei seoce see eee nese eee R. | 1872 271 Mound in Mercer County, Illinois, by Tyler McWhorter -......-.-.--.--..-----.---R. | 1874 286 Mound in-LrambulliCoanty, Olio, pyih Maer ee ee senna aa e ee eee eee R. | 1877 23 MoundiinwWisconsin iby, CK) Ganja nes eae ee eee eee ee Seah ets ite eee %. | 1872 271 Mound near Albany, D1., skull and Jong bones from, by Dr. R. J. Farquharson ...... R. | 1874 286 Mound) near Lexington: Ky., by DreRobert)Peter.5.------s2s--5-2--2.9) vecesees 2. | 1871 249 Mounds and osteolegy of the mound-builders of Wisconsin, by J. N. de Hart-......-.R.. | 1877 323 Mounds in Bartow County, Georgia, by M. F. Stephenson....-......---------------v. | 1872 271 Mounds in Delaware County, Iowa, by M. W. Moulton.........-.-.-.-.csseecese--ne 1 | LST 823 MonndsaniGeornia: by Hh Stepuenson eee en cee ee aecee eee se eeean eee R. | 1870 244 MoundsineLouisiana, by Prof. Samuel Be Lockett... ---eec cee anes e see one ene ae R. | 1872 271 Moundsini Mississippi, by Samuel AcvAl one w. =-c =e nee nena ee eaeseeme R. | 1867 215 Mounds near Anna, Union County, Illinois, by T. M. Perrin....-......--......----2. | 1872 271 Mounds near Fort Wadsworth, Dakota, by Dr. A. J. Comfort..........-.-----------Re | dee 249 Mounds, prehistoric, of Grant County, Wisconsin, by Moses Strong --.---.----.----%. | 1876 299 Much, Dr. M., ancient history of America ......-.--Bee Ce eee ene oe ee eek R. | 1871 249 Museum of Ethnology, Leipzig, by A. Schott and Otis T. Mason ...........--...---|; _R. | 1873 279 ummiy; case, Ghddon, by Charles Pickening)-<< 2-2 -es--mniene eae ase Reco xvi.:| S.C. | 1867 208 Navajouindians skeétchiot, by J. Letherman) ))ssces secemee iio ee season eee eens 2. | 1855 | 77 Nevada, Western, Indians of, by Stephen Powers. .... ..2-...cees-c-5s0cscceeccceeR. | 1876 | 299 New. Jersey, shell’ depaositin, by: CharlesiRaw.5.s-. os.cce cee. ese dee aeeeme seams R. | 1864 188 New Jersey, stone age in, by Dr. C.C. Abbott...........---...-Sdvfalaeseeeae teas R. | 1875 | 298 New. Mexico, antiquities! in by Wis duyON) 2. senes seco mene scelte nce See aeeeeee R. | 1871 249 New Mexico, excursion to, Major James Henry Carlton.......-..-....-.-.---------R. | 1854 79 New York, aboriginal monuments of, by E.G.Squier ...-....--.--.-------ce0e-ii..| S.C. | 1850 15 New York, Fishkill, deposit, &c., near, by Edw. M. Shepard ...... BE tn oe iain | BES gir 323 New York, Orleans County, antiquities of, by F. H. Cushing .......----...--...----yen bey 286 New York, Tompkins County, ancient fort, &c., by David ‘Trowbridge.-...--...----R. | 1863 187 Nicaragua, antiquities from, Dy .G.. Squier sso. secqscae see eee= snes eaca pease mas aaa R. | 1850 28 North Carolina, ancient mica mines in, by Dr. C. D. Smith ...................-.....R. | 1876; 299 North Carolina, Lenoir County, antiquities in, by J. M. Spainhour ..............--R. | 1871 | 249

<<<Page: 482>>>

2 g z-| Authors, localities, and subjects. ‘5 a —) 5 vA ov ell ela Me Ay A A wel) 0 ree ee eee North Carolina, Montgomery County, antiquities of, by F.J. Kron ....------------R. | 1874 286 North Carolina, Stanly County, antiquities of, by F. J. Kron .-.----.----.----------R. | 1874 286 Northwest coast of America, Kjoekken-Moeddings on, by Paul Schumacher. --.-..--. Re |/1875 275 Nova Scotia, Kjoekken-Moeddings on, by J. M. Jones. .-----------.--------+-------%. | 1863 187 Ohio, ancient earthwork in, sketch of, by I. Dille....-.........-..-.-:-------------R. | 1866 214 Ohio, ancient works in, by Charles Whittlesey -...--Se EEE NE Sasa stae Lele Co) ESOL 37 Ohio, Ashland County, earthworks in, by George W. Hill ....-.--------------------R. | 1877 323 Ohio, Ashtabula County, earthwork in, by Steplen D. Peet.........---.-----------t. | 1876 299 Ohio, Holmes County, flint implements in, by H. B. Chase......-.------------------R. | 1877 323 Ohio, Northern, antiquities of, by Dr. George W. Hill. .......-...------------+-----Re 1874 | 286 Ohio, Perry County, antiquities of, by W. Anderson .-..-..----Sp CuaRenoOSnenesoneT %. | 1874 286 Qhio, Lrumbull County, mound in, by F. Miller ..-.......---. ..-..----------------Re | LETT 323 Olmiitz, pile-work antiquities of .... .-...----Tae ROR pare Pei Seceeentaeeeeiee R. | 1866 214 Oregon, jargon of, by B. R. Mitchell and W. W. Turner. .. .--.-----------------+--|-----1853 68 Osteology, &c., of the mound-builders of Wisconsin, by J. N.de Hart .---.----..-R. | 1877 323 Palenque tablet in the United States National Museum, by Charles Rau...... xxii..| S.C. ! 1879 331 Patagonia, human remains from; by. Dr. A. Ried .-=.-2------2.20.2 see. onsen 2 <-> %. | 1862 150 Patton, Dr. A., antiquities of Knox County, Indiana. .-..-..-----.-...----.-----------(vets (pel Sioa pe2ao, Patton, Dr. A., antiquities of Lawrence County, Illinois..-......-..-----------------R. | 1873 275 Realevkanwancientimound at eainblOuis, MOssasecsoect oes acie es Scisees2 ase: %. | 1861 | 149 Peale lk. theses Of tho jprainiand marrowsecG see a 2 alee nele = male elelelel == miale = = %. | 1870 244 Peale, T. R., antiquities of the District of Columbia... .-.-..--..-----+-----ae, Re 1872 271 Peet, Stephen D., earthwork in Ashtabula County, Ohio..... ..-..----------------He SiG 299 Pennsylvania, Western, ancient mound in, by William M. Taylor ....--..--.-------te) | 1807 323 Perrine, Thomas M., antiquities of Union County, Illinois .--..-----.--.-----------een el ere 275 Perrine, T. M., mounds in Union County, Illinois. ........-...------------------++++-%. | 1872 271 Peruri dans OL) yiolyselan Grail Gree ersten ee Sa eee eel ae sae sce eelne eo arcemeracictas ta lelenn 323 eter, Ur Robert, ancient moundiin Kentucky, 22-2. se eeeeees oes cine g. | 1872 271 Peter, Dr Robert. moundmear Lexington, Keys asess--eecseetloes eae aaa = Aaa t. | 1871 249 Philology, instructions for ethnology and, by G. Gibbs. ....-.-.-.------------+vii..| M.C.| 1863 160 Pickerm~p, Charles; Gliddontmummiy-Gasesase-ecteer as ses eee esa ae cinns em -aiae xvi..| S.C. | 1867 208 Pidgeon sWwalliam burial moundsanlndianay cose seen eee se ne ete eee eelellsets eee ae] aketiy/ 215 ilesworkcian tiquities or Olmubtzno eae ae seeeeeseeee se cena n ase oes eee tne eelot t. | 1866 214 Pimo Indians of Arizona, by Capt. F. E. Grossman ...--...-..--.-----------++ orcas teeaksyal 249 Pitsatembarrasss Wis! byslen, Breeds | 6 MI UNE See ae ieee sesso eee oh lpalbsiciy/ 83 Platyenemism, mound-builders and, in Michigan, by Henry Gillman ..-...-..-----%. | 1873 275 Porto Rico, Latimer collection, &c., by Otis IT. Mason ........---...--..-+---------t. | 1876 299 Portraits of North American Indians, by J. M. Stanley ......-..---.------------ii..| M.C. | 1852 53 Portraits, list of photographie, of North American Indians....-......--.-----------224 Rau, Charles, gold ornament from a mound in Florida .......-----.--.-----------ee eiley iy) 323 Rau, Charles, Indian pottery ...-.....-EAL sale Wn cis a gl pn Ae et a R. | 1866 214 Rau, Charles, North American stone implements EO EL re SCe ee See ee Oe a | 1872 271 Rau, Charles, Palenque tablet in the United States National Museum.....--. xxii..| S.C. | 1879 331 au, Charles: shell deposit imNewid'ersey..-0slls cs see tenes ese ee eee eee eo eeo: 2%. | 1864 188 Rau, Charles, stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary .........-.-..--------+-------Rk. | 1877 323 Reed, M. C., ancient mound near Chattanooga, Tenn....-......------------5------y.. | 1867 215 Relationship, circular respecting degrees of, by L. H. Morgan...-. ... ---ii-.| M.C.| 1860 138 tetzius, Anders, present state of ethnology in relation to the form of the skull. --. %. | 1859 110 Ried Dri AC human remains from Patagonia sseeeneaeen ones eee one eee see enw ne Vamulsee: 150 Riggs, aly wDalsota prammariandidictonary: somes sees ee nee eee aoe eee eee iv-.| S.C. | 1852 40 Robertson, R. S., age of stone in Breckinridge County, Kentucky....-...-..------%. | 1874 286 Robertson, R. S., antiquities of Allen and De Kalb Counties, Indiana... “secees tL | 1874 286 Robertson, R. S., antiquities of La Porte County, Indiana ..............---.--.---gt. | 1874 285 Rochric wns O wansuace ofatherDakotadndianay eens seen este eeeeceee ese Vel ST 249 Homer, i: E, prehistoric antiquities\of Muneary .25i5--cesee sce sessceee ese -ee %. | 1876 299 L088; Bernard.) the astern: Linneh Indians) 22. ..2c2-2 cess) 2 eee eee ace ~ == <= Ue ialone 214 Ruin, AUGLONt aA PATIZ OND, 1 Dyie a Cape O sees een ee ee ene neem: see mere see. Ve i 1802 271 Ruins of Ab6, Quarraé, Gran Quioira, New Mexico, diary of an excursion under the Conmandiotg May am csikenry Carlton pO Sa Aue eeeee ee eee Helse eee sce eens 2. | 1854 75 Rutimeyer, Dr. L:, fauna of Middle Hurope, &e yes. b eh ee %. | 1861 149 Sarcophagus from Beirut, Syria, in the National Museum, by A. A. Harwood....t. | 1870 244 Schott, pAa eipzip Museum of, Ethnology. 0 ee ee ees ne eneen uc aseeker ee an ee C153 275 Schott, Dr. Arthur, the Cara Gigantesca in Yucatan ............-----------0+-+---2. | 1869 22 Schott, Dr. Arthur, ancient relic of Maya sculpture..........------------+-----+2. / | 1871 | 249 Schumacher, Paul, graves and shell-heaps in| California) 0.02) 1222.4.22.24.-25---2-| RR. | 1874 286 Schumacher, Paul, Kjoekken-Moeddings on the northwest coast of America... ---. | R. 1) 1875 275
Das: o4——— 31

<<<Page: 483>>>

Authors, localities, and subjects.
Sculpture, Maya, ancient relic of, by Dr. Arthur Schott....--...-...-.------0.---0. Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa, Guatemala, by 8. Habel...-.-..--9. tIEE Shaw: James; mound-builders)s 28-24 seee wom sek emi eee lo seers Shell-depos*ts'in' New, Jersey, by: Charles) Rana. seemie=,feces = =e eae een Shell-deposits, artificial, of ‘the United States by). Gee STi tOn ee eee eee Shell-heaps, ancient, graves s and, in California, by Paul Schumacher. ....-.......-Shell-heaps in Georpia: by? Brown cs. Leseeen cece. ae et eee eee eee Shell-heaps on Mobile Rive r, Alabama, by ‘A. S. Gaines and K. M. Cunningham. ... Shell-heaps. See KjoekkenMoedding.
Shepard, Edw. M.. deposit of arrow-heads, ishikillVaNwo en .s 22, <2 ce saianecwaxeeeee Sim psonyjG CHeralidl Wis Wasa OLON2CO |S MaAlG heeeeesem soa ce creer eeh eee oem eaeas Sioux orDalkotatndians, by Col Ac Gs Bracket: --scese csene ete ase acaeeeee eee Sioux Indians, language of UNS DY, ches OS ROGD RI Ope see ee seme et sec eee eeees Sioux Nation of the Upper Missouri, by Thadd. AC Culbertson mesece ac okt eee Skull and long bones from mounds near Albany, Qil., by Dr. R. J. Farquharson ---.. Skull, human, from Rock Bluff, Hl., by Dr. J. A. Meigs ELBE Te Oe Ce ee
Skull, human, form of the, present "state of ethnology i in relation to the, by Prof. TT SNe a eR D SOI gers EM, prea cot) i aia. hain va. + Rath Skull, shell-bed, from ‘Rock ‘Tsland, TL, by A. S. “Tiffany PERO R Ente SEAR Ecamerance Smart, Capt. Charle s, notes on the "Tonto CAPR ONER eco cee ce htene Sen eee ae eee Smith, DrG. De ancient mica mines in’ North! Carolinas: cameo eran ce vinaneloetecerents Smith, J. W, C., antiquities of Yazoo County, Mississippi ..-...----------.--.------Snyder, J. F., deposits of stone implements in the United States -.............-...-. Social and re ligious condition of the lower races of man, by Sir John Lubbock... -. Southern States, antiquities in} by H.\C: Walliams)222-2-2222 --— << eee Spainhour, J. Mason, antiquities in North Carolina -..... -...--.-..2.ssses-----.--Squier, E. oe aboriginal monuments of New WOrk «.\...-cicjccen con eceas-seemnens ies Squier, E. G. , antiquities from INIGATA PUA): = ci\cic nos ose = =i Seis we nie in eee eree ae 2 Squier jyH1G., ancientmonuments! 6c Cee cse= oases mane eine emacs eee eres ee Stanley, J. M., poxtraits of North-American Indiansper os. 0-eceeno eeere ee eees hte? Stelle, Je Parish, aboriginal rains. at savannah Senn eco. seccee coe kickesisic ise aeee Stelle, J. Parish, aboriginal ruins in Hardin County, MennN eSsO0 ase ace ciebieaes aces Stephenson, M. F., mounds in Bartow County, Georgia Jaee ana bosoednaoe co Geno accbs: Stephenson, M. I’. ‘ mounds i ini Georgia 2522. oh sis. agekieig see welae st sees eels ne inaee Stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary, by Qharles Ras 2.225 beck ee eee Stone age and the troglodytes of Bree kinridge County, Kentucky, by R. S. Robertson. Stone age in New Jersey, by Dr. C. CU. IRB Gobt ce deatett oe ea. 5 oe Stone celts in the West Indies and Afric a, extract from letter of George J. Gibbs. -Stone image in Tennessee, by Edw. M.Grant —_. ee sence sence nen e ee cee eneee Stone imple ments, North American, by CharlestRaw es sees es oe eee mes Stone period, North American, agricultural implements of the, by Charles Ran...-Strong, Moses, antiquities in WISCONSIN. Haare tie alae etree ae ya Strong, Moses, mounds of Grant County, WIsCONBINN Ger mcee Maser eae eae = Swan, James G. ., Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte Islands ..........-..----2. .alSwan, James G., Indians of Cape Fl: utter A foe Sea TEL SOG Son One aanaseaaacace hove Switzerland, Concise, researches made at, by Fred. TLOVON! s2.ticss comes wer ates Switzerland, Crania Helve ticanby; Pred. 'Lrosonyes-asseceeaes cise eae ene See Switzerland, lncustriansaities Of oc... sce. ce «a. ec coacs Gas ee ee Switzerland, lacustrian settlements i in’ Dy As Morlot: = dase ep se eaeeinee cee eee Switzerland, Lake of Neuchatel, palatittes, or lacustrian constructions of the, by E. esor Siok Mec erere tit ee Seep cis mcaian sate Clo cie BG she Unite Mein Sin ae ey ame Switzerland, Lausanne, cantonal museum at, antiquarian and ethnological colleetions of the, Dy Bred: Troyon: eset ean cee casei cen woe Sisto ane een ees Symbols for ¢ harts of prehistoric archeology, international code of .-....---Socnoad Syriac beirnt, sarcophacus trom 4.0 eee hein ea) Series ae et eee eee ‘Tay lor, William M., ancient mound in Western Pennsylvania .........--...--...--Tennessee, antiquities in, by .O: Dupning: <acndscees cuwecessaasens es -ecee ees Tennessee, antiquities of, by Dr. Joseph TONGS. eee Sanne eee p.o.0 Dee Tennessee, antiquities of, by Dr. Daniel F. Wright Tennessee, antiquities of, by WME. Claris 25 = ob itor de tes toy otelta GeoR cen ae ee Tennessee, Blount County, antiquities of, by Miss Annie E. Law----....-----------Tennessee, Chattanooga, ancient mound uear, by M. C. Reed ‘Tennessee, East, mound i in, by A. F. Danilson Tennessee, explorations i in, by E. A. Dayton
Tennessee, Hardin C ounty, aboriginal ruins in, by. Banish Stellen ns.ce-teeeese ees Tennessee, image of stone in, by Edw. Me Grant. neat Sa Sere ee ee ‘Tennessee, Jac kson County, antiquities of, by Rev. Joshua Hagilo i. Nccxeclechcleseeee
Tennessee, Savannah, aborivinal ruins at, by J. Parish Stelle Tiffany, A. ‘S. , Shellbed skull from Illinois BT ot ee ROO Oe once Tinneh. or Che ‘pewyan Indians of British America, by B. R. Ross ........----.-----Tonto Apaches, notes on, by Capt. Charles Smart Trade, ancient aboriginal, by Charles Raw: =. -: 3. eee Se ee a eee Troglodytes, or cavedwellers of the valle >y of the Vezére, by Paul Broca..........-Troy on, F red. , collections of the museum at Lausanne, Switzerland .........--...--Troyon, Fred., \Ordnin ROyeGoa:) |. 26 Ss <9 leh aco ai en ei ene Troyon, Fred., lacustrian cities of Switzerland ........--..2-.--2.-eeeeeeesnesrenns: Troyon, Fred., report of researches made at Concise ..-..-...-.---es Stes eeeee
Trowbridge, David, ancient fort aud burial ground in New York........--. soe eeene=
Publication.
| Number in list.

<<<Page: 484>>>

Authors, localities, and subjects.
Turner, W. W., B. R. Mitchelland, jargon of Oregon.....--..-2..--0222-022 -eeeene|eenens
Warner, Jared, big mound in Grant County, Wisconsin Washington. See District of Columbia.
West Indies, stone celts in Africa and in the, by George J. Gibbs ...-...-Whitney, J. D., cave in Calaveras County, California. ..............-....-
Whittlesey, Charles, ancient mining on Lake Superior. .........----------
‘Whittlesey, Charles, ancient works in Ohio .......................--.---Williams, H. C., antiquities in some of the Southern States......-..-.--.-Williamson, Hon. George, antiquities in Guatemala.................-.---Wilson, Dr. Daniel, lecture on physical ethnology........-.--..----.--.--Wisconsin, antiquities in, by Moses Strong -.----...---.----.-------------
WWHSCONAINVAntGuitiesioL Dyelebap ham sere seer ce scecnctineee sacaic jem acre sisae. Vil--
Masconsiny carth works: ins Dy yh Bleed accel sce cislaineloncticticscets lle Wisconsin, Embarrass, pits at, by E. E. Breed
Wisconsin, mound in, by C. K. Dean Wright, Dr. Daniel F., antiquities of Tennessee Yoruba grammar and dictionary, by T. J. Bowen Yucatan, Yzamal, Cara Gigantesca in, remarks on, by Dr. Aythur gehott
Wisconsin, Grant County, elephant mound in, by Jared Warner...--..--Wisconsin, Grant County, prehistoric mounds of, by Moses Strong....-Wisconsin, mound-builders of mounds, and osteology of, by J. N. de Hart........
| Publication.
Number in list.

<<<Page: 485>>>

dak We dt
ak fare ty vlad ahaha
3 Mayet ¥ ie my nahh a? Gobind wi wie
1 _ wiv ioe :

<<<Page: 486>>>

«fWO LECTURES DELIVERED IN VIENNA ON THE 10TH AND 17TH OF DECEMBER, 1879.)
By Pror. Dr. FRANZ JOSEPH PISKO.
He who compares the fundamental principles of physics accepted at present with those prevalent several decades ago must necessarily be astonished at the changes which have occurred within the domain of these branches of science. The “‘Imponderables” have fallen to the ground and have made way for the various motions and forms of motion of a hypothetical universal ether and the ultimate atoms of matter. One single natural force, or rather one single original universal motion is recognized, which manifests itself in various forms, such as cohesion, adhesion, chemical affinity, gravitation, heat, light, electricity, and magnetism.* This changed fundamental principle lends to modern physics a coherent and attractive form, which essentially distinguishes it from the incomplete and unsatisfactory system of the older physics. The new system has a very simple basis, and the modern structure of natural philosophy appears accordingly much more connected, comprehensive, and translucent than the old defective and disjointed edifice.
The physics of to-day is shaped into a logically-constructed theory of motion or kinematics (dynamics). It is however not merely the outward form of the science which is altered, but the comprehension of natural phenomena and laws has also undergone a far-reaching and radical change. For instance, if formerly the falling of a stone was observed, it was believed that on the stone’s reaching the ground all its motion had ceased; it was, according to this, considered possible that motion
*(The hypothesis advanced by many popular expounders of science, that all the forces and properties of matter are to be ultimately resolved into molecular or atomic motion, is a remarkable instance of premature and over generalization. In the Smithsonian Report for 1876 (pages 275-279) reasons were given for believing that gravitation eannot be resolved into any form of motion; and further, that without an inscrutable “force” underlying all motion and antecedent to it, no rational conception of dynamics is possible. Without the ultimate (irresolvable) fact of ‘‘elasticity” in material elements (for example), neither transformation of motion nor conservation of energy could
have any conceivable basis.—Jd. | He

<<<Page: 487>>>

might be destroyed; now it is known that the visible motion of the fallen stone transforms itself into the invisible one of its molecules by which its temperature is somewhat increased. Light falling on a black cloth, being, so to speak, swallowed up or absorbed by it, was formerly considered as absolutely extinguished or completely annihilated by it; now it is known that the rays of light are not destroyed thereby but they are transformed into heat.
Such examples might be indefinitely multiplied, tending to show that an apparently destroyed force can never be lost in reality, but that the effects of these forces are only changes or transformations. By ingenious tests in measurements, these hidden and reappearing actions of natural forces (that is the motions of bodies and their ultimate particles) can be traced; it can be proved that in nature no part of the action of foree— (or of the motion of bodies and their ultimate particles) can ever be lost; and at the same time that no force—no action of force or motion— can ever be created anew; but that all natural phenomena are the various effects of the original force or existing motion, present in the universe in an invariable quantity.
If we search for the beginnings of this reformation in the fundamental conceptions of natural science we must, in order to understand them, turn to the theory of heat. It is familiar, that the peculiar condition of bodies by which they produce in us the sensation of warmth and cold, and in other bodies a change of volume, is called their thermal state. We distinguish by our sense of feeling the different degrees of heat of bodies and designate them thereby as hot, warm, tepid, cool, or cold. There are then degrees or grades in the heat of bodies. The definite degree of heat ofa body is called its temperature. To ascertain the temperature of different bodies thermometers are used. These however indicate only the different degrees of heat in a body, but cannot indicate directly the amount of heat contained in it. To do this a particular apparatus is needed which is called a calorimeter. In this, thermometrical measurements, of course, are also included, but there are in addition certain calculations necessary to elucidate the amount of heat in question.
The following is a very simple example of a calorimetrical test, and the calculation referring to it is also annexed; we thereby arrive at a correct idea of a heat-unit and consequently the possible numerical expression of amounts of heat. On mixing one kilogram (kg.) of water at 0° C. with one kg. of quicksilver at 34° C., the mixture will show 1° C., the water taking 33° C. from the quicksilver, and these raise its own temperature by only 19 ©. One kg. of water, then, should have 33 times as much heat supplied to it as one kg. of quicksilver if the temperature of the water is to rise 19 ©. This example shows that a thermometer cannot directly indicate what amount of heat is needed to raise the temperature

<<<Page: 488>>>

of a weight unit of a body by 1° C.; on the contrary there are needed, to this end, tests by mixture like the above, or other similar methods.
In order to be able to give amounts of heat in numbers a heat-unit must be selected. For the heat-unit (or calorie) that amount of heat is chosen which has to be imparted to the weight-unit, that is, the 1 kg. of water, in order to raise its temperature 19 C.* If 1 kg. of water needs 1 heat-unit to raise its temperature from 0° C. to 1° C., then 2, 3, 4, &e. kgs. of water will need for the same temperature 2, 3, 4, &c. heat-units. If, for instance, a body contains 100 such heat-units, we say its amount of heat is 100. Any apparatus which permits an accurate measurement of such amounts of heat is called a calorimeter. In the example herein quoted, the vessel containing the mixture, carefully guarded against cooling and provided with accurate thermometers, would be the calorimeter.
If similar calorimetric mixture-tests as the one above cited are made with different substances and water it will be found that equal weights of different substances require different amounts of heat in order to raise their temperature by 1° C. Tron and nickel require only ;4; tin, silver, and antimony only 4; bismuth, lead, gold, platinum, and quicksilver, only j, part of the amount of heat which the same weight of water requires to raise its temperature 19 C. The quantity of heat which is required to raise the temperature of a weight-unit (7. e. 1 kg.), of a body is called its specific heat or heat capacity. The specific heat of water is taken as the unit in quoting the specific heat of various substances. According to the preceding examples, the specific heat of water is 1; that of iron and nickel ;,; that of tin, silver, and antimony .4,; that of bismuth, lead, gold, platinum, and quicksilver ,,. From this it will be seen that water possesses the greatest specific heat, and that metals possess only a small amount of it. A small amount of heat can consequently raise their temperature perceptibly. In receiving equal amounts of heat the temperature of that body will rise most rapidly which has the least specific heat.
The knowledge of the specific heat of bodies is of high importance, theoretically and practically. Im regard to the latter, the following example will illustrate what has been said: Supposing there were equal weight amounts of water and quicksilver in separate vessels which, having the same temperature from the beginning, were to be warmed in the same space of time by small flames which produce an equal amount of heat in a time-unit, 35 such flames would have to be placed under the
* (More generally stated, a “ heat-unit” is the amount of heat necessary to raise a weight-unit of pure water at maximum density—a unit of temperature. The heatunit above given is that employed by French physicists. The British heat-unit is only about one-fourth as large; being expressed by one poundof water raised in temperature one degree Fahrenheit. Tbe reason for the limitation to the temperature of maximum density of water (about 39° F. or about 4° C.) is that the heat-capacity (specific heat) of liquids increases slightly with their temperature.—Ld. }

<<<Page: 489>>>

water vessel, and but 1 under that containing the quicksilver. For the same reason 33 times the quantity of coal would have to be burned under the water that the quicksilver would require, if the temperature of these fluids were to be increased to the same degrees of heat.
Because quicksilver requires only ;, of the quantity of heat which is required by water to raise its temperature one centigrade degree, the quicksilver will, if equal quantities of these fluids are placed on a heated stove in separate vessels, acquire a higher temperature in a much shorter time than the water. If however equal quantities of water and quicksilver, the temperature of which has been raised in this manner, are both allowed to cool and are put in a place having a constant temperature the temperature of the quicksilver will fall much more rapidly than that of the water, for the reason that the latter, on account of its 33 times greater specific heat, has to give back again this 33 times greater amount of heat for every degree of falling temperature, which had previously been absorbed by it for each 1° C. of heat. Under otherwise similar circumstances the temperature of a body possessing but a small degree of specific heat rises or falls more rapidly than that of a body possessing a higher degree of the same. The difference in the amount of the specific heat of different bodies is not directly apparent ; the existence even of specific heat has to be determined, as was previously observed, by peculiar mixture tests or other processes. Though, from other considerations than the above, the varying heat-conducting capacity of bodies (causing their more or less rapid heating and cooling) ‘was known, the existence of specific heat was for a long time unknown to natural philosophers. Indeed, it was only discovered as late as 1760-1765 by the Scottish professor of chemistry, Joseph Black. The discovery was made during his researches concerning another important law of heat discovered by him, of which more hereafter. Black discovered the fact which is now accepted as specific heat. The designation of this fact as “specifie heat,” however, originated with Wilke (1772). Crawford (1779) used the expression “comparative heat” or heat capacity. The latter word refers figuratively to the varying capacity of different bodies, by virtue of which they absorb different amounts of heat for each 1° of increased temperature.
It had not escaped the notice of the discoverer of specific heat that an equal quantity of heat absorbed by a body for each degree of increased temperature, and (so to speak) concealed in it, is given back at exactly the same rate when the temperature of a body decreases one degree. What becomes of the heat absorbed by bodies in the increase of their temperature, and which is given back so precisely in the process of cooling? his is about the question Black asked, and in order to arrive at a correct answer he examined the two principal theories in regard to the ultimate cause of heat which at all times had been more or less obscurely expressed.
The ancient philosophers, in explanation of heat phenomena, had as

<<<Page: 490>>>

sumed the existence either of an excessively rare elastic heat substance (the element “ fire”), which, by penetrating into the body according to its amount, heated it more or less, or they tried to explain heat phenomena by the assumption of a continuous motion of greater or smaller amount of the ultimate corpuscles of bodies. Their idea was however too general, too indefinite, and confused in both directions. Black and his adherents in principle shared the first-named opinion, and believed that the important fact of specific heat (discovered by Black) could only be explained by the hypothesis of an extremely rare, elastic, all-penetrating, and imponderable “ caloric.” It was supposed that this calorie repelled its own molecules while it attracted those of foreign bodies. If this caloric, by virtue of the attraction exercised by it and the molecules of these bodies, penetrated the pores of substances, it expanded the molecules by means of its elasticity, thus increasing the volume of bodies by the supply of heat, and in this manner the expansion of a body by heat was explained. Black and his scientific friends thus defined specific heat: Caloric is present in smaller quantities in cold bodies than in warm ones; it possesses a certain degree of elasticity dependent on its accumulation and the degree of attraction existing between it and the molecules of matter. The greater the latter the feebler the elasticity of the caloric between the molecules will appear, consequently the thermometrical degree of the body will prove the smaller, although the same amount of heat be present, and will therefore require the more heat to raise its temperature one degree; in other words, its specific heat or heat capacity will be the more considerable.
The fact that with the condensation of a body its specific heat diminishes, harmonized with this explanation. The caloric hypothesis made the following assumption: If a body is condensed the elasticity of the caloric is thereby increased; a part of this becomes free and raises the temperature of the body. In the same measure as the heat capacity of a body is diminished or increased the heat will become free or latent.
‘The opinion in regard to the existence of a caloric was confirmed, in addition, by the fact of radiation of heat, as far as it was known at the time; the caloric rays (like the rays of light) being regarded as exceedingly rare material emanations from heated bodies, moving with infinite rapidity, penetrating the bodies with which they came in contact, in part combining with their substance (as previously indicated) and remaining latent, or in part free and acting as thermometrical heat in the bodies.
In Black’s time all the then known heat phenomena harmonized with this heat hypothesis, or at least they were not in opposition to it; therefore at that time the caloric theory was almost universally accepted, and this‘all the more as the terrestrial sources of heat, formerly so difficult to explain (including the development of heat by percussion or compression or by chemical processes) after Black’s discovery of specific heat, might be appropriately reduced. to a diminution of the heat capac

<<<Page: 491>>>

ity. It was even thought justifiable to suppose that in the case of heat, produced by the friction of two bodies, these might suffer a diminution of their heat capacity in consequence of the pressure.
The physicists of that time were generally satisfied by the assumption of a distinct heat substance, “caloric.” There were always however some few skeptics whose mind could not be set at rest by the supposition of an imponderable substance ; such as is the caloric. Among their number was Count Rumford (Benjamin Thompson), clear-headed and acute thinker, unprejudiced investigator, eminent observer and distinguished experimentalist, as he was. In the first place he tried by delicate weighings (1798) whether in fact very hot, non-oxidizing bodies (for instance a ball of gold, or a quantity of water hermetically inclosed in a glass ball), compared with their weight in the cold state, might perhaps show a slight increase of weight; the tests resulted in the negative. Though the defenders of the caloric matter could have raised the objection that this substance was so rare that it would not act even on the most sensitive scales, they however seized upon another one; they declared weight to be a non-essential quality of matter, and they called substances without gravity ‘“‘imponderables.” Among these they counted hypothetically caloric and light, and also the electric and magnetic fluids. Weight could not be supposed to be an attribute of these imponderables for the very reason that they were observed to proceed with equal force in all directions and not, like ponderable bodies, only toward the earth.
Rumford was particularly confirmed in his disbelief of the existence of the caloric by the manifestation of great quantities of heat consequent upon the friction of bodies. It had long been known that augers, saws, files, brakes, ungreased axles, pivots, &e. became heated to a considerable degree by the friction they undergo in use. Every turner was aware of this fact, and by simply using the heat produced by the severe friction for making black or brown stripes on his productions by charring, he thereby bestowed a permanent ornament. The emission of sparks in grinding knives, the fire kindling by friction among uncivilized nations, friction matches, as also the needle-guns of civilized nations, belong to their number. The adherents of the material theory of heat, as indicated above, had recourse to the supposition that in friction bodies were condensed and their heat capacity was therefore diminished; the consequence of this would be that a part of the heat would become free and escape. One problem remained however unsolved, namely, how this should be possible, considering the inexhaustible product and the comparatively small amount of pressure. This question presented itself very forcibly to Rumford when he (1798) observed the enormous amounts of heat becoming free in the dvilling of cannons, where the metal-shavings which fell off became particularly heated. As he did not find the heat capacity of the shavings diminished any more than that of the solid metal of the cannons, the heating

<<<Page: 492>>>

PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHysics. 491
of the tube and shavings could not with propriety be attributed to the diminution of the heat capacity; the less so, as Rumford, by his own tests in drilling, succeeded in bringing nearly 10 pounds of water to the boiling-point after a continuous friction of two and a half hours. To what extent would the heat capacity of the metal subjected to the frietional test have had to be diminished to explain this heating of the water! At the same time it had been demonstrated, as previously mentioned, that the heat capacity of the substances subjected to the friction had not perceptibly diminished. Whence then came these enormous quantities of heat? How is it that they show themselves incessantly as long as friction continues? Can it be that bodies contain caloric accumulations in inexhaustible quantities, or could these be called forth by friction simply? Could a substance be created by friction, or rather by the cause of it, that is, by a moving force? That would mean that the immaterial effect of force was transformed into caloric! Is this conceivable? Beeause it is inconceivable, Rumford supposed that heat was in essence a motion of the constituent particles of bodies, which had been increased by friction in such a manner that the visible motion of the body subjected to friction had been transformed into the invisible motion of their ultimate particles—that is, of their molecules, and thus manifested itself as an increased temperature. It is very clear from this, that as long as friction, 7. e. the visible motion of the body subjected to it, continues, so long there can and must appear free heat, which means increased molecular motion in the bodies in question.
Only one year later (1799) Davy took sides with Rumford. Davy, by means of a clockwork, had two pieces of ice rubbed on each other; they were placed under a nearly air-tight glass globe which was constantly kept at a temperature below zero; they melted at the frictional planes. As they melted only at these, and since any influx of heat to the ice was carefully guarded against, the cause of the melting could only be the heat called forth by the friction. It was known even at that time that the specific heat of water was double that of ice, so it could not be presumed that this was a case of diminution of the heat capacity by friction. There was, on the contrary, the proof of its being doubled. In addition, it was known from previous ecalorimetrical researches, which had also originated with Black (1760-1765), that in order to melt one kilogram of ice, greater quantities of heat would be required (79 heat-units). The question then arose, whence originated the quantities of heat required to melt those frictional surfaces of ice? “Caloric” could not introduce itself either from within or without, owing to the excellent arrangement, and yet there was heat present. It could only originate in the transformation of the visible exterior frictional motion of the mass, into the invisible, interior molecular one. After these experiments of Davy the idea of the existence of an independent caloric could no longer be entertained.

<<<Page: 493>>>

It was now but natural to examine whether there were not a definite, calculable relation between the conversion of the entire visible motion of the frictional mass into that invisible motion of the ultimate molecules, i. e. its transformation into heat. Rumford himself had made the experiment of such an estimate of the mechanical value of the increase of the temperature of a given quantity for each thermometrical degree. At that time, however, the scientific conception of “ work” had not as yet found a place in mechanics; therefore an exact definition was enly possible at a later period. It came almost simultaneously from Dr. Julius Robert Mayer (May 1842-1851) and James Prescott Joule (August 1845-1849). The former was a practicing physician in Heilbronn, the latter a physicist in Manchester, thoroughly conversant with practical mechanics. Mayer took up this subject mainly from a theoretical point of view, and verified his ingenious conclusions by experiments. Joule took the opposite direction. Both happily arrived, in a striking manner, at the great object; the former more powerful in fertile, logical ideas, the latter stronger in the province of experiment, and for this reason, more accurate in the final determination of numerical results. We will attach ourselves to Joule, as far as the experimental part of this subject is concerned, well aware that the honor of originating this highly important matter is almost generally conceded to Dr. Mayer, who has now passed away. We say ‘almost generally,” because recently the priority of Mayer in this important matter has been disputed on several sides, particularly by some English physicists. Attention was called to the fact that Mohr, in his “Tdeas on the nature of heat” (1837), that is five years earlier than Mayer, had advanced as far as the latter, that also Seguin (1839), Faraday (1859), and Liebig (1841) had approached earlier than Mayer the theory of the transformation of heat into mechanical power. Attention was especially directed to ‘ Essays on Force,” by Colding, which appeared in the Danish language in the year 1845, in which the author asserted, @ priori the imperishability of natural forces and their transformation into equivalents of the other forces; and (by his own statement) he had conceived these ideas four years before on the ground of d’Alembert’s theorem, of ‘‘ The active and inert forces.”
Finally Joule was put in opposition to Mayer. The relation of the labors of the two last named has been indicated above. In whichever way the question of priority may be decided, it is certain that only Mayer and Joule have successfully grappled with this problem, and that Mayer is by almost general consent celebrated as the first discoverer of the calculable transformation of mechanical work into heat. Indeed, according to existing records, no one before him recognized and proclaimed this great truth so plainly and clearly, and no one before him made such far-reaching application of the consequences as he did.
For reasons above referred to, we have decided on the discussion of Joule’s experiments, which have their appropriate place here, and of the

<<<Page: 494>>>

conclusions to be drawn from them. The short space of time allotted us obliges us to use economy, and therefore we limit ourselves to the indispensable in this direction. First, however, it will be necessary to define what (according to Poncelet and Coriolis) is termed ‘ work ” in scientific language, how it is measured and calculated. Whatever effect of any power we may subject to analysis, we shall always arrive at the result that the ‘‘ work” performed by a force consists in the overcoming of a resistance within a given distance. For instance, if a force has to overcome a ten times greater resistance over the same space, its work will be ten times greater, and so the labor of a force is three times greater if it overcomes a uniform resistance over a three times greater space. The amount oi work by a force, therefore, increases in proportion to the resistance which is overcome and to the length of way over which the resistance has been overcome. If the work of forces is to be expressed by numbers, it is necessary to name a work unit. The work required to lift 1kg. through 1 meter is called a kilogram-meter or meter-kilogram (kgm), and is regarded as the work-unit. If then there is a resistance of 10 kgs. to be overcome through the space of one meter, the work is 10 kgms.; but if this resistance is to be overcome over three meters, the work will be three times 10 kilogram-meters, that is, 50 kgms. We see from this that the amount of any work is calculated by multiplying the distance by the force. We are now enabled to include within our examinations the most easily comprehensible of Joule’s experiments. A perpendicular axis of rotation, A A, (see figure,) provided with brass paddles F F’,—having their planes F in an upright position, was placed in a weighed quantity of water, W;; this shaft Joule caused to rotate by means of a [il waizzzzzizz weight, P, drawing acord, | |
SS, wound on the drum, A; the circulating current of the liquid W being prevented by rigidly fixed brass frames, mm. The jj friction of the water W hi) against the planes F of the ; aoa paddles, the frames m m and its own parts caused a rise of temperature in the liquid, which was measured by means of excellent and very sensitive thermometers, T T. The multiplication of the amount of the fallen weight P by the distance it had travelled n v gave the measure of the mechanical labor used for the friction. If, then, the friction of all the movable parts outside the water-tank of the apparatus, and all

<<<Page: 495>>>

other losses were taken into consideration, Joule was able to caleulate how many work-units would have to be employed in the friction in order to produce one heat-unit.
Joule then modified this experiment in various ways by having the friction produced in other liquids and under different circumstances. He changed the size of the descending weight, and then the height to be traversed ; the result was that in friction the same amount of work is always employed in the production of a heat-unit, the mean being 425 kilogram-meters. This important figure is called the work equivalent of the heat-unit, or the mechanical equivalent of heat.*
If 425 kilogram-meters are equal to one heat-unit, one kilogram-meter (that is, the work-unit) will amount to 735 of the heat-unit. This numerieal expression of 745 of the heat-unit, which is the equivalent of the work-unit, is called the heat equivalent of the work-unit.
Jowe has furthermore determined the mechanical equivalent of heat which shows itself in the compression of air. Hirn did similar work in relation to the heat produced by the collision of two bodies ; other investigators at a later period ascertained the equivalent of other sources of heat. The results of all these experiments are in such accord that we may consider the above value of the mechanical equivalent of heat a settled question.
We have arrived at the know!edge that heat is a state of motion of the ultimate molecules. The system adopting this proposition is called the mechanical theory of heat (thermo-dynamics, thermo-mechanics).
Various opinions may be held in regard to the nature of this state of motion of molecules called heat: indeed, up to the present time, different views have been expressed in regard to this question. For the mathematical basis and treatment of the mechanical theory of heat the verification of the fact that heat is a state of motion is sufficient: while for the purpose of explaining and calculating the relation of gases in regard to heat, as well as to render the conception and comprehension of the corresponding mathematical deductions of the mechanical theory of heat, or thermo-dynamics, generally more easy, the leaders in this branch of science have attempted to set up a certain hypothesis relative to the inner structure of substances, as also to the manner of motion of their ultimate molecules.
Let us first turn our attention to the conception of the inner structure of matter. Even Leucippus, as early as 510 years B. C., and after him Democritus (470 B. C.) were of opinion that matter was composed of the minute indivisible particles which they called atoms (an indivisible thing). Their atomic theory was only developed further when physics commenced to be subjected to mathematical treatment, as material points or
*[Joule’s unit of the mechanical equivalent of heat is more popularly expressed in Great Britain and in this country in foot-pounds: being 772 pounds lifted one foot,— the equivalent of one pound of water heated one degree Fahrenheit.—£d. }

<<<Page: 496>>>

PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHysics. 495
atoms adapted themselves easily to mathematical treatment. Dalton (in 1803) introduced his atomic hypothesis into modern physies, which since then has been subject to different views on the constitution of matter, and therefore has had to undergo various modifications. On the basis of certain physical and chemical manifestations, it is a generally accepted proposition that matter consists of unchangeable particles, or atoms separated by spaces, which, compared to their own size, are very considerable. We must assume as many kinds of atoms as there are of chemically indivisible substances. A group of similar or dissimilar atoms considered as connected by chemical affinity, according to certain laws, constitutes a molecule. Molecules are chemically divisible, mechanically, however, indivisibie. Atoms then are the components of molecules; an atom is neither mechanically nor chemically divisible. Certain phenomena lead to the conclusion that an atom cannot exist in an isolated condition, so that even in the chemical elements at least two atoms are combined in a molecule. Chemical processes extend to the separation of the atoms constituting a molecule, and to the union of materially different atoms in the molecules of compound substances. In the chemical separation the stronger chemical elective attraction of one substance mostly takes from the molecules of the other the chemically affinitive atoms, whereby the molecules of the bodies in question are decomposed. Under favorable conditions the separated dissimilar atoms combine, by virtue of their chemical affinity for each other, to form molecules of a chemically new compound body.
While chemical attinity dominates in the atoms of molecules, physical forces of attraction (cohesion, adhesion) are in action between the moleecules of bodies and of the earth, just as that force called the force of gravity or gravitation prevails between the celestial bodies.
Matter then consists of mechanically indivisible molecules; the latter again can only be divided into their own atoms. The comparatively large spaces intervening between the atoms we assume to be filled with an excessively fine and highly elastic substance, called wether, which surrounds atoms and molecules alike in the manner of an atmosphere. This «ether exercises an attraction on the atoms and molecules of bodies, while it repels its own particles in such wise that the density of the ether surrounding each atom and molecule increases from without towards the interior. A further assumption is that this ether is not only distributed through the interstices or pores of bodies, but extends throughout the entire universe. I*rom the oscillations of the atoms of this ether, transverse in direction to that of the propagation of the rays of heat and light, the diffusion of the waves of heat and light is deduced, and it has been proved by well-established experiments and irresistible conclusions that the rays of heat and light are identical, and that they only differ in the number of their oscillations and their effects.
We will now examine in what way the permeability of certain substances by heat rays is explained on the one side, and the increase of

<<<Page: 497>>>

temperature of others in consequence of the absorption of heat rays, by the hypothesis of an oscillating ether and atoms, on the other.
If heat rays strike a body, a part of them penetrate into the substance and transfer the oscillatory motion of the heat waves of «ther either to the atoms of the ether within the body or to the atoms of the body’s substance. In the former case the body (for instance, rock salt) permits the greater part of the heat rays to pass through it, and its temperature is increased in a scarcely perceptible degree ; in the latter ease the body refuses almost entirely to let the heat rays pass, but its temperature is noticeably heightened. It is then said that the body has absorbed the heat rays. We conceive that in this absorption of the heat rays the oscillating atoms of the «ther waves or the rays strike the atoms of the body, and in transmitting their own motion impart to them an oscillating motion about their center of equilibrium, or they intensify the existing vibration of the corporeal atoms.
If, on the contrary, the oscillating material atoms of a body transmit a part of their motion to the «ther, we say that such a body radiates heat. As with the aid of the law of radiatiou and absorption in regard to radiating heat the propagation of heat by transmission may be reduced to a stratified radiation and absorption of heat, the increase of temperature of bodies by transmission is based finally on an increased motion of the particles of the warmer bodies.
Inorder to be able to speak more precisely of that molecular motion which is called heat, we must borrow from mathematical mechanics the following important proposition: When bodies or their particles are in motion, half the product of the mass so moved by the square of its velocity is called the kinetic (dynamic or actual) energy or half of the vis viva. This expression “living force” first used by Leibnitz (1686), grew into general use in mechanics and physics, while now it is more and more replaced by the term “ kinetic energy.” The word “ energy” was applied in physies by Thomas Young (1807); but it was only recently that Rankine fixed the definite conception of this word in the sense indicated above. Energy is now understood to mean the capability of doing work or of overcoming a resistance; the kinetic energy is mathematically equal to half the vis viva. In theoretical mechanics it is mathematically demonstrated that work done by a body moved by a force is equal to the increase of the kinetic energy experienced by the body during the action of the foree.
We will first apply this proposition relative to kinetic energy,—to heat as a molecular motion. It is conceived that the more kinetic energy increases by means of the increased velocity of the oscillating particles, the higher the temperature of the body will prove to be. In the development of heat by friction, the kinetic energy of the visible motion of the bodies is turned into that invisible kinetic energy of the molecular motion which manifests itseif as a powerful inerease of temperature of the bodies experiencing friction. In the increase of temperature of bodies

<<<Page: 498>>>

by absorption of heat rays, the kinetic energy of the oscillating ether atoms is transformed into the kinetic energy of the oscillating particles: in the radiation of heat by bodies, it is an inverted exchange of their kinetic energies.
A body whose atoms should tend to perfect repose would manifest the absolute zero point of temperature. It has been ealeulated that the absolute zero point, if it existed in nature, would be 273° C. below zero of the thermometer. Although the ebsolute zero point of temperature does not exist in reality, it is of value in the theoretical examination of the heat theory. From the degrees of heat, caleulated from the absolute zero point, the absolute temperature is deduced. No gas is so perfect that it could preserve its aeriform quality to near the absolute zero point, but the most permanent gases even, would finally take a solid form before the cooling process had reached 273° C. below zero of the thermometer, notwithstanding that any degree of cold observed until now in nature, or which could be produced artificially, lies very much above the absolute zero point of temperature.
As in reality there exists no absolute zero point of temperature, the particles of all bodies in the universe as well as those of the universal wether are constantly in a state of that peculiar motion called heat. In solid bodies the molecules oscillate about certain centers of equilibrium. If a solid body is heated, the oscillations of its molecules become more rapid and extended, whereby its temperature and volume are increased. The force of heat acts in opposition to the force of cohesion. By continuous heating the force of cohesion may be rendered so feeble that the molecules no longer oscillate about a certain point, but they move freely among each other; it is then said that a solid body has become fluid,—it has melted.
By still increased heating of a fluid its cohesion may be so overcome that the molecules with an accelerated motion scatter apart and disperse. Freed from cohesion the vaporous or gaseous condition of substances is attained. The gas molecules move always independently of each other in a rectilineal direction until they strike other gas molecules or a wall by which latter they are thrown back like elastic balls. The pressure of a gas upon the surrounding walls is caused by the great number of violently striking molecules. This theory of gases originated principally with Daniel Bernoulli (1738), and was only recently applied very sueccessfully to the mechanical theory of heat by Krénig, Clausius, and Joule.
According to the preceding, the pressure of a gas if it be compressed (supposing the temperature to be constant) and hence the corresponding decrease of the volume of the same quantity of gas, must be proportional, as it is evident that the shocks of the gas molecules on the walls will become more frequent during each time-unit the more confined the space is becoming in which the same number of gas molecules are moving. (Boyle’s Law 1660, or Mariotte’s Law 1683.)
It will be easy to judge what process will take place in a body when
S. Mis. 54-———32

<<<Page: 499>>>

heat is furnished to it from outside. In the first instance the velocity of the oscillating molecules will be increased, consequently the kinetic energy of the latter is intensified; this fact manifests itself by the rising of the temperature of the body. We will call the work employed in this, measured in work-units, (according to Zeuner,) the oscillation-work,. There is besides a work process going on in theinterior. This produces a change, as a rule the extension of the mean intervals, ¢. e., the medium distances of the oscillating, corporeal atoms, whereby in the expansion of bodies by heat the particles of bodies recede from each other, or they even entirely change their places, as is the case in the processes of melting, boiling, and evaporating. There is, lastly, an exterior work connected with the expansion or aggregation change of bodies by heat in general, as usually the pressure of the atmosphere, or some other pressure on the surface of the body from without, has to be overcome. This exterior work produces the useful effect of caloric and steam engines.
The entire work done by a certain amount of heat is equal to the sum obtained by the addition of the exterior and interior amount of the oscillation work. In assuming an infinitely small change of the body by the increase or decrease of an infinitely small amount of heat we assume its changeableness, and so succeed in subjecting those quantities to mathematical calculation, and in deducing thereby those truths of the mechanical theory of heat which are of such high importance, theoretically and ‘technically; in regard to this subject we would refer to the works of Clausius, Zeuner, and Hirn.
According to the mechanical theory of heat the true nature of specific¢ heat will be easily understood. In specific heat, the variable assumes smaller values with reference to oscillation-work (temperature) for the addition of a certain amount of heat, as the specific heat of the body is greater; that is, if the body requires more heat both as to exterior and interior work, for the variable. In melting, boiling, aud evaporating the further change of oscillation-work under uniform pressure from without is zero, that is, no increase in the thermometrical indication is obtained, because all the work employed is expended in the dispersion or segregation of the substance.
In regard to the latter point it is necessary to be more explicit in order to be understood. If a mercurial thermometer is placed in melting ice or snow the quicksilver of the thermometer will soon reach 0°
), (52° F.), where it will stand until all the ice is melted ; it will be the same with other melting bodies. The melting temperature of every substance remains constant while it melts.
The same will be the case in boiling fluids. The temperature at which a fluid begins to boil, and continues to do so, is called its boiling temperature or its boiling point. This varies with the material quality of the fluid, and also has relation to a fixed pressure of the air. <As long as a fluid boils with the pressure unchanged, its boiling point remains constant; ne matter how much the fire is enlarged, there will only be

<<<Page: 500>>>

produced a more rapid evaporation of the fluid, but no increase of its temperature above the boiling point. What becomes of the great amount of heat which is supplied to the melting and boiling substances? We shall answer this question by a historical digression; this will guide us to the solution of the present problem.
A century and a half ago Réaumur and Celsius were acquainted with the fact of the constancy of the melting and boiling points of ice and water. Obtrusively as these phenomena courted notice, they were yet only used by the manufacturers of thermometers as very desirable for their purpose, but were not further heeded. Black, whom we previously eulogized as the discoverer of specific heat, comprehended the importance of this natural phenomenon, and endeavored to solve it (175964). It was he who put forward the following proposition generally known to-day, and which he verified by many experiments. As often and as long as any substance melts or boils (evaporates) so long all heat supplied to it disappears, for the latter then no longer acts on the thermometers which may be immersed in these melting or boiling (evaporating) substances. As soon however as the vapors of any substance become again fluid, or as soon as a fluid substance congeals, the heat which, as Black proved, apparently disappeared during the boiling or melting of these substances reappears; it then acts again on the thermometers which are immersed in either of the substanees which are transforming themselves from vapor into fluid or which are again congealing. This returning heat amounts, as shown by Black, to exactly as much as that which was apparently lost during the melting or boiling. What becomes of that heat concealed during the melting or boiling of a substance, up to that time, when by a reversion of the process it reappears ?
We know that Black assumed a highly elastic caloric without weight, which penetrated a substance and heated it. For the melting and boiling (evaporating) of substances was required, according to Black, much more of the caloric which, by means of its elasticity, expands the mole; cules, and which, by virtue of a dominating attraction between the ponderable substances and the caloric, combines with the molecules of the ponderable matter. Black, for this reason, called the heat used in melting and boiling (evaporating), —“ latent” heat. By reversing the process the previously “latent” heat became again sensible; the latter had the property of acting on the sense of feeling as well as on the thermometer.
The discovery by Black of “latent” heat (as well as of specific heat) is most wonderful, because something hidden was brought to light by ingenuity and genius, and the indestructibility of heat was actually proved; in consequence the way for our modern heat theory was prepared.* We know that Black’s theory in relation to the material
*[This is not quite an accurate expression of the fact, and therefore deserves comment. Were there sucha thing as “caloric,” it would certainly be ‘‘ indestructible,” and it was precisely this fallacious conception which led the illustrious Black, in his

<<<Page: 501>>>

nature of heat was not correct. Even at that time his hypothesis only spoke of the concealing and reappearing of a caloric, but was unable to throw any light on the cause of this disappearing and returning of heat, and here the mechanical theory of heat shows itself in all its glory. If the latent and specific heat quantities are nothing else but the quantities of kinetic molecular energy applied to the disengaging of the molecules which mutually attract each other, then it is plain that, as long as heated bodies do not begin to melt or boil (which means evaporation inside), a part only of the supplied heat suffices for the loosening of the cohesion of the molecules (specific heat), and that in connection with it an increase of the oscillation-work, 7. e. an increase of temperature, takes place. As soon however as all the newly supplied quantity of heat is used entirely and exclusively in the separation of the molecules during the process of melting and boiling (interior evaporation) then no inerease of the oscillation-work of the molecules, 7. e. no rising of temperature, can take place.
In conclusion let us review the acquisitions made by this lecture. We shall find that it resulted in the certain knowledge that heat is not a substance, but the internal motion of the molecules of bodies. The molecules of all bodies of the universe, as well as that of the universal ether, are constantly in that peculiar state of motion which is termed heat. Mechanical work is convertible into heat according to a definite equivalent. We shall endeavor to prove in the next lecture that under certain restrictions heat may, by a reversal of the process, be turned into mechanical work (thermo-dynamic machines); we shall moreover demonstrate that the kinetic energy of the molecules of bodies and the ether, termed heat, may be converted and again reduced to other energies, called light, electricity, magnetism, and chemical action, in such a manner that all these energies appear only as the transformations of one single indestructible energy. The doctrine of the indestructibility and increatibility of energy forms the basis of the modern ‘fundamental principle in physics; it has transformed the latter as thoroughly and perspicuously as had been done in a similar manner in regard to chemistry toward the close of the last pony, by the proposi-
invaluable peaches to joanne the heat w hen (by every available test) ie observed to have disappeared—‘“‘latent caloric.” The modern conception of the fact is however entirely different. Heat, as a very special ‘‘mode of motion,” is just as destructible as any other special form of motion, and it is no more irrational to designate sound or light as indestructible than to so designate heat In the latter portion of the succeeding lecture the transformation of heat into work which isnot heat, is substantially recognized. As Prof. J. Clerk Maxwell has correctly stated in his excellent Treatise on Heat,—‘‘ heat may be generated or destroyed by certain processes, and this shows that heat is not a substance.” (Theory of Heat, chap. iii, p. 57.) And again: “The hypothesis of caloric, or the theory that heat is a kind of matter, is rendered untenable—tirst, by the proof given by Rumford, that heat can be generated at the expense of mechanical work; and secondly, by the measurements of Hirn, which show that when heat does work in an engine, a portion of the heat disappears.” (Same> work, chap. vili, p. 147.)—Ed.]

<<<Page: 502>>>

tion established at that time with reference to the indestructibility and increatibility of matter. These two great acquisitions, namely, the propositions relative to the permanence of matter and energy, give to modern physies a solid foundation.
In the former lecture we have learned how, by transformation of mechanical work into heat, their equivalence has been demonstrated ; we will now show how this equivalence has been ascertained by reversing the process, 7. e. by turning heat into work. A transmutation of heat into work is observed in the expansion of bodies by heat, also in the melting and evaporation of substances, external as well as internal work being performed in these cases. However, it cannot be proved directly and plainly, with bodies expanded by heating, that in the transformation of heat into work a quantity of heat in proportion to the latter is used, because no decrease of temperature, but, on the contrary, an increase of it, takes place. We shall therefore be obliged to look for examples in which for the work performed by a body a corresponding quantity of the heat contained in it is consumed, and is thus diminished.
This was the case in the following experiments by Gay-Lussac, and ata later period by Joule. They introduced a current of compressed air within an exhausted chamber; no loss of heat was perceptible, because no work had been performed. There was however a loss of heat upon the compressed air flowing into a chamber filled with air, because now the pressure of the air had to be overcome; consequently labor had to be performed. Joule deduced from the amount of heat lost in this measured work the heat equivalent (1845).
In steam-engines the steam is the transmitter of the heat, which performs work indirectly. If the law of the mechanical equivalent of heat is to stand, it has to be proved that the quantity of heat produced in the steam of the boiler is greater than the amount of heat contained in the condenser after the work has been done. Hirn, in Colmar, has given this most difficult proof by highly ingenious experiments with a steam-engine (1855), and Clausius deduced the heat equivalent from these experiments (1855).
We have now learned the possibility of the transformation of heat into mechanical work; it can further be demonstrated that heat may be transformed and again reduced into other actual or possible forms of motion, which are called light, electricity, magnetism, or chemical action. For instance, by means of steam electric machines and thermopiles heat is transformed into electricity. By means of the heat in asteam-engine, magneto-electrical machines may be made to rotate, and to produce powerful electric currents; the latter again may produce mechanical, chemical, magnetic, thermal, and optical effects; electricity then no

<<<Page: 503>>>

longer exists as such, but is transformed into mechanical or visible motion, chemical and magnetic power, as also into heat and light. The electric current of a galvanic element originates, as will be shown hereafter, in the slow oxidation of the dissolving zinc; that is, in the corresponding heat of combustion, which, by means of the transmutation into the form of the electric current, produces all the effects above referred to. These reciprocal changes and transformations of natural forces are treated in Grove’s “ Correlation of the Natural Forces.”
As shown by the preceding examples, which might be multiplied at pleasure, it may be affirmed: All natural forces are closely connected ; any one of these forces may be transformed into another, but none of them can be destroyed. This fundamental principle of modern physical research has its origin as regards the experimental part of it in the heat equivalent first demonstrated by J. R. Mayer and J. P. Joule; its substance is now generally termed the ‘conservation of energy.” Until a few years ago this proposition was generally expressed by ‘ conservation of force”; since however the conceptions of force, its work and energy, have become clearer, recently the former term has generally been used in preference to the latter. The proposition relative to the “conservation of energy” asserts that the sum total of active energies in the universe is unchangeable in whatever degree the constituents of this sum might change in their relation to each other. If, for instance, a stone is thrown up perpendicularly it possesses a certain kinetic energy in consequence of the velocity imparted at the start; as soon as it has reached a certain height this energy for an instant appears lost; at the turning point the velocity of the stone and its kinetic energy are zero. But at its arrival at the point from which it had been thrown up it again possesses the previously imparted velocity and consequently its original kinetic energy; a fact which can readily be mathematically demonstrated. We ask, then: Was the energy at the point of return really momentarily destroyed?
In order to answer this query let us suppose that the stone at the moment of turning rests on a flat roof; its kinetic energy as to motion is without a doubt zero; but it is not absolutely lost, it simply takes another form of energy. This will be plain to us if we remember that if afterward that stone falls to the ground, the original kinetic energy is again obtained. As long then as that stone remains lying up there the apparently lost energy is preserved in a different form for future use.
Let us take another example: If the spring of a bow is stretched a certain energy is imparted to it by the labor necessary for the stretching, which afterward in shooting off the arrow is returned in its entirety,—not considering the losses from the impediments to motion. Is the energy employed lost as long as the bow spring remains stretched ? Or is it only laid up? It is plain that the latter is the case.
If, on throwing a body up perpendicularly, we call the energy with which it begins and on returning completes its motion— kinetic energy”

<<<Page: 504>>>

(also actual or dynamic energy); if furthermore we call the stored up or preserved energy of a lifted weight or of a stretched spring, We., po_ tential energy” (also energy of position, statical or quiescent energy, or elasticity) ; we observe that in throwing up a stone, as also in the stretching of a spring, the original kinetic energy is by degrees transformed into potential energy, until finally the kinetic energy is equal to zero, while the potential energy has become a maximum quantity. In the return of the stone, or the resilience of the spring, the relation is the reverse; ¢.¢e. the potential energy is by degrees turned into kinetic energy, untjl finally the latter has attained its maximum, while the former on the other hand has become zero.
A swinging pendulum, at the moment when it reaches the middle point with the greatest velocity, possesses only kinetic energy; at the highest points of its excursion it possesses only potential energy. On all intermediate points the sum of its kinetic and potential energy is a constant quantity. In a similar way the kinetic and potential energy form in their sum a constant quantity in a stone that is thrown and falls back vertically.
This is the real import of the proposition of the “ conservation of energy.” Applied to the energy of the universe—as a whole, the proposition is: The sum total of the kinetic and potential energy in tue universe remains ever constant, however much the values of the several items may change. It is consequently impossible to destroy either energy or work, or the forces producing them, but it is equally impossible to originate them. The mutual play of the natural forces consists then only in their transformation, in their absorption and reappearance, without the least loss of the effects, 7. e. without any loss of energy or work, or without their re-creation.
Having grasped the meaning of the highly important theory of the “conservation of energy,” we will test its sufficiency by a few examples. If a stone has bad kinetic energy given it in being thrown upward, and at the turning point has passed through a state of potential energy, and on returning to the starting point possesses again its full, original kinetic energy, does it not lose it all the same when it is suddenly brought to rest on reaching the ground? Apparently it does! In reality it does not, for the kinetic energy regained through the fall of the stone has, by its striking the ground, been turned into oscillation energy, in internal and external work of the stone molecules; it has becn transformed into heat and expansion by heat, as was demonstrated by Joule’s experiment.
The descending water of the Rhine-fall, of mountain torrents, &e. in dashing against the foot of rocks, in reality does not lose any of its motive energy, but for the seeming loss in external motion the internal motion of the molecules becomes more intense than previously; 7. e. it possesses at the foot of the height as much more of heat as it has lost in

<<<Page: 505>>>

moving energy. The sudden heating of a moving body when arrested is fully explained by this.
Where did the moving energy originate which was imparted to the’ body when thrown upward? If we ourselves threw up the weight then the energy came from our muscular power, which again drew it from the vital power, that is, from a combination of physical and chemical forces; the latter were again taken from that great total of nature’s energy which exists in unalterable quantity; this would be the case with any other force which had been instrumental in throwing up the stone. The masses of water of the cataract had at some previous time Seen carried aloft; this was done through the agency of the energy of heat, by which the water was raised in the form of vapor, and the latter by cooling off reached that spot in the form of rain, from which, after numerous transmigrations and changes of locality, it finally precipitates itself into the deep. These processes resemble very much the changes through which material substances pass in their innumerable physical and chemical actions. However great the differences, it is certain that no substance is ever lost in the universe: the transformation is simply like the building of a new edifice with old building stone; in this process the old energies also contribute, but in new forms.
The conservation of energy has its analogue, its precursory, necessary, and supplementary correlative in the conservation of matter. As matter without force and force without matter are inconceivable, the great discovery of Lavoisier (1772~86) of the indestructibility of matter in reality involved that of the indestructibility of force; nevertheless, half a century passed away before this was recognized. The conservation o7 energy, an acquisition of the present, and the permanence of matter, an aeqiuisi(ion of the last century, together form the fundamental law and the “ center of gravity” of our modern natural science.
On reaching this point, it may be interesting to search in the annals of science whether in earlier times the truth of the persistence of matter and energy had not been discovered and lost again, or whether its high importance and bearings were not comprehended. Researches in this direction result in finding that indeed the ancient Greek philosophers (Leucippus, 510 B. C., Democritus, 470 B. C.; Aristotle, 350 B. C., and others), and more than two thousand years later, thinkers and investigators like Descartes, Newton, Huyghens, Bacon, and others, had an idea of the indestructibility of the atoms of matter, of the perpetual activity and motion of the same; that the former at times had a dim perception of the indestructibility of matter and energy, and the latter passed closely by this fundamental proposition; that however only within the last quarter of the last century has the theory of the indestructibility of matter, and within our own time the theory of the indestructibility of energy, been fully apprehended, and efforts made to prove the same by means of induction.
Against these proofs the objection has been raised that the constancy of

<<<Page: 506>>>

matter and energy was not rigorously established by experiment, as the respective measurements could never attain perfect accuracy ; that this theory, unconsciously impressed on us from the beginning, might therefore have been conjectured by the ancient philosophers without confirmation from experiment. We would, however, point out that the measurements relative to those propositions possess that degree of accuracy which is indispensable in the determination of a law in natural science; that in the latter, only laws thus proved are admissible, and that the theories of the persistence of matter and energy had never been definitely expressed with mathematical precision before the above named epochs. At any rate, the really scientific and highly fruitful application of these two fundamental laws falls in the last decades of the past century and in our time. It was only after the permanence of matter had been experimentally demonstrated with the aid of delicate precision-scales by Lavoisier (1772-’86), Wenzel (1772 to 1777), and Richter (1792), and on these grounds definite statements had been made, that chemistry really became truly scientific in form and character by reason of the development of the doctrine of definite proportions.
If on the one hand the theory of the persistence of matter created chemistry as a science proper, on the other the theory of the persistence of energy threw a full light on physics, chemistry, physiology, and in fact on the whole philosophy of the investigation of nature. The last step in the establishment of the theory of the conservation of energy was produced by the theory of heat. The premises of this theory existed however already in mechanics, it having been observed in the latter at an early date that by eet no power was ever gained, but that by the use of machines power could only be employed more easily and to better advantage.
The ancients knew that in the lever the greater weight moves just as many times more slowly as it exceeds the smaller weight in quantity. Galileo observed more generally (1592) that in lifting a weight by means of a simple machine as much is lost in space and consequently in time as is gained in power. Johann Bernoulli (1717) in an ingenious manner transformed this proposition as the ‘* principle of virtual velocities ” into the first principle of the theory of equilibrium, from which emanates the solution of every statical problem. Subsequently d’Alembert embodied this principle in its widest analytical form (1743). We find then that in simple and consequently in complicated machines (these being composed of the former) absolutely no power and therefore no energy can be gained. Machines cannot produce powers; they can only apply them more advantageously to a useful purpose.
Since by means of a machine the work performed by the first motor could at the utmost but reappear in undiminished quantity at the last, (and this could be only if there were no losses by impediments to motion from friction and resistance of the air,) it is evident that a perpetuum

<<<Page: 507>>>

mobile is an impossibility. In such, the first portion of the machine, if once set in motion, is to move the second, this the third, &c. the last again the first, without ceasing. The action of the first part of the machine however arrives at the last part greatly diminished by resistances to motion, and from this returns again diminished to the first part, and so on; the machine, therefore, will soon stop. If then this kind of machine, which only performs its own continuous motion, is impossible, how could any mechanism be found which once moved, would in addition perform outside work without renewal of power? That is what the wise searchers for a ‘‘ perpetual motion” are striving for! A machine in continuous motion itself would be too insignificant for them; it must be an apparatus that would work incessantly and gratuitously, which need be set in motion but once, when motion and work would continue forever.
As in the foregoing, it has been demonstrated from theoretical mechanics that a ‘perpetual motion” is impossible, and as this has also been confirmed by experience, Helmnholiz, (1847—he was not then as yet acquainted with the pertinent works of Mayer and Colding, and only obtained knowledge of that of Joule towards the close of his researches)— deduced from this the theory of the ‘conservation of energy” by presenting the question: “If a perpetuum mobile is necessarily impossible, what are then the relations of the natural forces to one another?” Helmholtz points out that if the assumption of the impossibility of a perpetuum mobile is combined with the law set forth by Newton (1680), “In every action of a force a similar and opposite reaction is always present,” the doctrine of the mechanical equivalence of heat results therefrom. Coiding had previously (1843) expressed himself by reversing the above in this wise, that if the proposition maintained by him as to the indestructibility and convertibility of natural forces were false, a perpetuum mobile would be possible. Newton’s proposition of the equality of action and reaction of a force has become so general that it mcludes Bernoulli’s before-mentioned principle of virtual velocities. We may therefore conclude that Newton had approached the discovery of the theory of the conservation of energy even earlier, and from a more general standpoint than Bernoulli.
It has been observed that the term “conservation of force” has in the course of time been replaced by ‘‘conservation of energy.” Why had the term “force” to give place to “energy”? The answer will follow if the meaning of the term ‘‘force” is precisely defined, and if the effect or the capability of action of a force—i. e. its ‘‘energy”—is not confounded with the “force” itself, which is considered as the cause of the effect or capability of action. IT orce is the appellation for every cause which overcomes the property of persistence or the inertness of a body, or endeavors to overcome it; that is, every cause which actually prevails upon a resting body to move, or upon a moving body to rest, or erdeavors to do so. Every force which acts upon a body emanates from some other body. Force is never one-sided in its action, but in the saine force with which the first body acts upon the second one this will |

<<<Page: 508>>>

react on the first. This is the previously mentioned principle of Newton or the equality of action and reaction; so, for instance, a stone and the earth attract each other with equal force; both fall towards each other ; the stone being a small mass does so visibly; the earth being of great magnitude, (therefore moved in the most minute degree,) does so invisibly; that is, the motion of the earth toward the stone is not sensible, as it is of a non-measurable amount. The weight on a table exercises the same pressure from above as the table from below. A spring pressed by the hand exercises a counter-pressure in an equal degree, &e. Forces then are not self-existing, but they are confined to matter, and manifest themselves only by their actions.
As forces are neverobserved as such, but can only be measured by their actions, recently the question has repeatedly arisen whether the term “force” ought not to be entirely banished from natural science. By degrees an agreement has been arrived at in regard to this matter, so that the actions of forces, which manifest themselves either as pressure (tension) or as motion, are adequately termed potential or kinetic energy ; the latter term is susceptible of a mathematical expression. What formerly was called pressure or elasticity is now termed potential energy, while the moving forces of old are now counted among the kinetic energies. The term “force” ought to be avoided in every case where its action (work, capability of action, energy) is referred to; it may however be used in all those cases (and preserving the former usage of language) where the cause of an effect, e. g. of a pressure or motion, is to be indicated.
On reviewing what has been said we find that although the older theoretical mechanies had certainly approached very near the proposition of the conservation of energy, only by the discovery of the heat equivalent and of the transformation of energy did it gain a precise definition, as also a highly important general significance and a universal application. At present, analytical mechanics has deduced this theorem mathematically and made its application general.
By the discovery of the‘heat equivalent, the theory of heat had to relinquish the hypothesis of a “caloric,” transmitted by warmer bodies to colder ones, which the latter absorbed for the purpose of raising their temperature, and it had to turn to the hypothesis, according to which radiant heat had its cause in oscillating ether atoms, and absorbed heat in the effect of the oscillation of the molecules of bodies. The theories of heat and of opties thereby obtained a common basis, namely that of the oscillating «ther atoms. In optics the theory of emission, according to which exceedingly fine elastic and imponderable light-atoms were radiated by luminous bodies with an enormous velocity, was discarded earlier than the theory of caloric emission in the case of heat; the cause of this was a series of phenomena which could no longer be explained by the emission hypothesis, but only by the transverse oscillations of that extremely rare and highly elastic medium which we have termed ether,
Let us examine in what manner the wave or undulatory theory ex

<<<Page: 509>>>

plains the fundamental phenomena of the radiation of light and heat. The ultimate particles of an incandescent metal or the flame of a lamp or any similar source of heat and light execute extremely rapid oscillations, whose kinetic energy is imparted to the atoms of the surrounding ether in a similar manner to that effected by resounding bodies on the surrounding air. Just as the latter vibrates and transmits tones, so also does the oscillating «ether transmit light. While however in the transmission of sound through the air the particles of the latter vibrate in the direction of the sound rays, it is most probable, in accordance with certain phenomena, that in the transmission of light the oscillations of the ether atoms take place in a direction perpendicular to the rays of light. The hypothesis is that the elasticity of the ether permits the displacement in a lateral direction to the rays much more easily than in their direction, or longitudinally.
Colorless light, as we know, may be reduced to the primary colors of the rainbow by means ofa glass prism. These variously colored components of the colorless light are virtually the same in regard to it, that the different low and high tones are with reference to sound, and they are transmitted by the ether in a manner similar to that of the propagation of the several tones of sound by the air. Mathematical optics teaches that the difference in optical tones—z. e. the difference in the spectral tints—like the difference in acoustic tones, is owing to the unequal length of the oscillating «ther waves, or to the unequal number of oscillations of the constituent atoms. In the different length of the waves of the various spectral colors we see why the variously colored component rays of the colorless light are, by refraction, diverted from each other and scattered in a spectrum in a fan-like shape.
The more rapidly the ether atoms oscillate, or the shorter the wave, the nearer to the violet-colored limit of the spectrum will the correspondjng tint be located. The longest «ther waves are on the red, the shortest on the violet-colored end of the spectrum ; between the two occur the ether waves of medium length. The rays of the spectrum produce three kinds of effects, by means of their kinetic energy, accordingly as they fall on different bodies. In the region of the red rays and in the invisible space beyond them a heating of bodies placed there predominates ; therefore an increase of the molecular energy takes place ; the rays from red to violet (among them the yellow ones, particularly) act principally on the nerve ends of the retina of the eye and excite the optie sensibility ; the blue ones—the violet ones, particularly, and the invisible rays beyond the violet—produce chemical changes as the shorter waves of the oscillating «ther pass over to the «ther between the atoms of a molecule, and thereby cause separations as well as a different grouping of the atoms into new molecules, dissimilar to those previously existing.*
*[The researches of the elder Draper tend to discredit entirely the generally received view here stated, that the calorific, optical, and actinic effects of the solar radiation occupy different positions in the spectrum, or have different refrangibilities.

<<<Page: 510>>>

PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHysics. 509
Although the different rays of the spectrum, according to their position in the latter, produce predominantly thermal, optical, or chemical effects, it can be shown that the difference in the effects is not caused by an essential difference of the rays, but rather by the different material condition of the bodies on which the rays act. There is only one kind of radiation, which however according to the number of oscillations of the «ther-atoms and the difference of the irradiated matter, manifests itself in various ways in the effect. Heat, light, and chemically acting rays are in essence identical, and they become only distinguishable when the kinetic energy of their ther oscillations is transmitted to the material particles of a suitably disposed body. or instance, every ray of light is also a ray of heat; but the so-called obscure rays of heat and rays of light differ only in the number of their oscillations ; otherwise they are quite the same. The rays of light alone are able to excite the ends of the optical nerves to optical action, while the visible as well as the invisible (so-called obscure) heat rays cause an increase of temperature in those substances by which they are absorbed.
In order that rays may act upon a body which they strike, it is indispensable that they should be absorbed, The absorption of heat, light, or chemical rays is a transmission of kinetic energy from the oscillating ether atoms to the molecules, and, in chemical effects, to the atoms of ma‘ter. Although the equivalent of a given quantity of light has not yet been determined, it is certain that through the absorption of light rays, substances become heated, and the chemical action of the light rays augments precisely as the absorption of the latter; the law of the conservation of energy finds its application in this, though the quantitive proof is wanting as yet.
The wave, or undulatory theory of light, explains the phenomena in a very simple manner, as we demonstrated in the example of the spectrum; it reduces the radiation of light and heat to a common principle. The theory of the emission of luminous matter had to assume as many variously colored luminous atoms as the innumerable colored rays in
This eminent physicist has certainly proved that the accepted generalization is at least fallacious, and based on insufiicient data. From the enormous distortion necessarily incident to every refraction spectrum, (as shown by reference to an arithmetical scale of wave-lengths, or by the simpler expedient of comparison with a diffraction spectrum, ) Dr. Draper has pointed out that computing from the arithmetical center of the spectrum,—the point of maximum illumination in the yellow band—(near the sodium line D), the lower side of the scale is compressed into about half its just extent, while the upper side is expanded to about double its proper range. (Am. Jour. Sci. Sept. 1872, vol. iv, pp. 161-175.) And as this distortion goes on rapidly increasing from the mean portion, the extra optical rays are many times condensed beyond the red extremity, and many times dilated beyond the violet extremity. <Accordingly the *‘heat-curve,” familiarly exhibited by popular writers and lecturers, is simply an egregious ‘‘anamorphosis.” Secondly, Dr. Draper has shown that the actinic or chemical energies of the solar ray are distributed throughout the spectrum (visible and invisible), provided that the observer’s attention is not confined (as usual) to the decompositions of silver salts. (Am. Jour. Sci. Jan. and Feb., 1873, vol. v. pp. 25-38; and pp. 91-98. )—Zd. ]

<<<Page: 511>>>

existence, which were believed to combine in the colorless ray to a colorless substance. Besides this, a peculiar calorie had to be assumed. The absorption of light could be considered only as a union of the ealoric with substances by which the former lost its essential property, namely, its illuminating power. Thus many phenomena of light could not be explained by the theory of the emission of light, even with the assistance of new auxiliary hypotheses. How clearly does the undulatory theory explain, not only all the light phenomena, but also those of heat and chemically acting radiation! By the application of the proposition relative to the conservation of energy, the transformation of one kind of ray into another, as well as the absorption of rays, is easily comprehended.
By applying the undulatory theory to both heat and light, a common basis has been gained for them; the rays of heat and light are even identical. The undulatory theory of the «ther being formed according to the demonstrated undulatory theory of acousties, it shows by analogy, as indicated above, what the conception of the transmission of kinetic energy in acoustics is. First, in relation to the calling forth of tones, the mechanical work of bowing or striking the resounding instrument is changed into the kinetic energy of the vibrating motion of molecules. From the resounding body the kinetic energy passes over to the sound transmitter in form of progressing longitudinal waves, and from the sound transmitter by means of the vibratory parts of the ear to the extreme ends of the auditory nerves, whereby finally the perception of sound is produced. If the sound waves however strike accordant bodies, the latter get into resonance in consequence of the transmission of kinetic energy. In opties a similar calling forth of tones or colors in suitably constituted bodies by colored rays falling upon them is known; these phenomena are called fluorescence and phos. phorescence.
We have observed that the theories of heat light and sound have been reduced to one of undulation. And since the latter is deduced from mathematical mechanics, these theories have theoretical mechanics as their basis, and, above all, the fundamental principle of the conservation of energy. The many relations existing between electrical, optical, and thermal phenomena, continually more and more discovered and displayed since the wider development of the mechanical theory of heat, are naturally calculated to arouse the efforts of natural philosophers to explain the fundamental phenomena of electricity also from some motion of material molecules or zther atoms, the many counter actions between the thermal, optical, and electrical phenomena having rendered untenable the hypothesis of electric fluids, or electric substances.
Uptothe present time there have been two leading hypotheses by which the theory of electric phenomena was to be connected with the ether theory of optics and heat. One of these hypotheses maintains that there are opposite rotatory motions of the material molecules or ether atoms

<<<Page: 512>>>

PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. 5ll
‘imparted to them in the production of the two kinds of electricity. The
other assumes that the electric condition of a body is caused by a disturbed accumulation of freely acting «ther. In accordance with the latter view every non-electric body would contain «ether to a certain amount. By the exciting of electricity (through friction, for example), the equilibrium of the ether atoms and the ultimate particies of bodies would be disturbed, and by reason of this a flowing over of the disengaged wether from one body to another would take place; accordingly one body would have a plus, the other a corresponding minus of the disengaged ether; one body then shows positive, the other negative electricity. Undeavors have been made to explain the electric current on this ground. As yet neither the one nor the other representation has succeeded in explaining all the fundamenta] phenomena in electricity, although those observed up to the present time generally accord better with the latter than the former.
Although the hypotheses which aim at the ultimate attainment of a common basis for the theories of light, heat, and electricity have not satisfied the test in their detailed application, still the principle of the conservation of energy in its application to the theory of electricity has been found true. As every magnet may be considered the aggregate of all its molecules, surrounded by electric currents, if the general electric phenomena have been reduced to the theory of the conservation of energy, this reduction is, in principle, valid as to the primary magnetic phenomena.
As to frictional electricity an expenditure of work by friction is required in the separation of positive and negative electricity. The expended kinetic energy manifests itself on the rubbed bodies as the potential energy of the separated electricities in this wise, the two bodies which received the separated electricities strive to approach each other. If this approach really takes place in easily moved bodies, as for example in the motion of swinging electroscopes of opposite electricities, it finally reappears as kinetic energy as manifested in the visible approach of the easily moved electric carriers. The electric discharge in shape of a spark, as also of heat, to which the electricity has been changed, shows the passage and conversion from potential to kinetic energy.
By means of electrie machines mechanical energy is transformed to the potential energies of positive and negative electricity. If the eleetrically charged positive and negative conductors of an electric machine are connected by a wire, the result is an electric current with which mechanical, thermal, magnetic, chemical, and physiological effects may be produced, with which therefore a transfofmation of energies may be effected.
The electric current also which emanates from galvanic batteries produces such transformations, in most cases to a higher degree than the frictional electric current. If a given quantity of zine is dissolved in diluted sulphurie acid, which chemically is equivalent to its oxidation

<<<Page: 513>>>

or slow combustion, a definite amount of heat is generated in the fluid: by this combustion. But if an equal quantity of zine is dissolved in the diluted sulphuric acid of a galvanic element, which is closed by an iron wire (which offers considerable resistance to electric conduction,) the amount of heat in the galvanic element decreases as compared to that of the same quantity of oxidized zinc, and is manifested instead in the resisting connecting wire, so that this thin wire appears as the bearer of a certain amount of heat or of the corresponding kinetic energy. The heat generated throughout the current conductor and augmented by the internal work is equal to that which disappears from the galvanic cell when the latter is closed with the resisting iron Wire. If this experiment is modified so as to put the poles of the galvanic battery in metallic connection with copper wires (which latter offer a comparatively small conducting resistance), and if then the ends of these wires are united by a thin iron wire or charcoal ‘points, a great part of the heat of oxidation produced in the battery may be conveyed to long distances in the form of the electric glow and light. In this process chemical energy is transformed into that of heat, electricity, and again of heat in accordance with the law of the correlation of energy,
If we analyze water by means of the electric current of a voltaic battery, the quantities of hydrogen and oxygen thereby obtained possess through their’ chemical attraction (chemical relation or affinity) that potential energy, which disappeared as the kinetic energy of heat from the battery and manifested itself in the closing wire as the kinetic energy of the electric current. Through the electrolysis of the water the electric current must be weakened by the amount required in the work performed in the separation of the atoms of the water molecules, If the mixture of inflammable gas obtained in the electrolysis of the water is set on fire, there arises from the explosion, light, heat, aud sound; that is three kinds of kinetic energy. If all the losses in these processes could be taken inte account, the total of all these energies would be equal to that heat energy which, during the electrolysis, was produced in the battery in the dissolution of the zine.
In the generation of magnetism in an electro-magnet some of the kinetic energy of the electric current is expended, hence a periodical weakening of the current takes place at the moment of the magnetization; no energy is however required for the retention of the previously developed magnetism, because no work is required for the existing state of equilibrium in the electro-magnet, for where no mechanical work is performed no loss of the current can take place. In electro-magnetic motors, where the electromagnet has to be constantly reproduced, there is then a constantly renewed expenditure of the energy of the electric current taking place. In this case there is an indirect transformation of the heat which is produced by the zine consumed in the battery. This heat is transformed into the electric current, magnetism,

<<<Page: 514>>>

PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF PHYSICS. os
and lastly into mechanical motion, which may be employed in the performing of mechanical work.
For every amount of work done by the electric current an equivalent of the energy of the current, or of the combustion heat of the oxidizing zine in the battery, is consumed or rather transformed. We have seen that in the steam-engine a part of the heat of the steam is turned into mechanical work, avd that after the work is accomplished this amount of heat is wanting in the steam that has been at work. In steamengines, and in fact in all caloric or thermo-dynamic machines, a proportionate quantity of the heat, stored up in the form of vapors and gases, must seemingly disappear for every mechanical work done by such machine. Heat is only then turned into work if it passes from a warmer to a colder body; in this respect it resembles the flow of water (as Sadi Carnot ingeniously remarked as early as 1824), which only then can move mills and perform other work when it is able to descend from a higher to a lower level. This figurative conception, however, led Carnot to the false conclusion that in this sinking of heat from the higher to the lower tempered body no heat was lost. Ultimately Clausius corrected Carnot’s proposition of the performance of work by the falling of temperature (1850), by changing the closing part of Carnot’s proposition of the retention of heat to the exact opposite, that is, he concluded that there is an apparent loss of a proportionate amount of heat as such for every unit of work done, on account of its transformation into work, Clausius demonstrated furthermore, in agreement with Carnot that-in any thermo-dynamic machine it was to be presumed that the work performed depended in each case on the amount of transmitted heat, and not on the material composition of the vehicle of heat, as for example, whether from steam or heated gas.
A steam or gas machine can only then perform work when the heatbearing medium is cooled off on one side of the piston and a part of the heat is converted into work.*
In every thermo-dynamic machine a warmer body (the fire) transmits a certain amount of heat to the heat bearer (vapors or gases). The latter effects the transformation of the smaller portion of the received heat into mechanical work, while the supplementary, larger portion, is carried over to the colder body. Thermo-dynamic machines unavoidably, and
*(This passage correctly récognizes the well-established fact that heat is lost (or destroyed) in being transformed into *‘ work.” Whenever a permanent molecular change is effected either by heat or by impact, less heat remains than when no such work is effected. The falling stone (to use the lecturer’s early illustration) is less heated by collision if broken than if not broken by the shock,—a portion of the kinetic energy in this case being expended in overcoming the tenacity of cohesion. Any hypothesis of the conservation of motion (as such) would necessarily lead us to the incongruity of conceiving the rolled iron or the crushed ore as having an extra amount of ‘‘latent” heat stored up within its molecules; or conversely of conceiving light as “latent” in the gas-holder, the oil-can, or the lucifer match; or sound as “‘latent” in the organbellows, the violinist’s elbow, or the grain of gunpowder.—Zd. }
S. Mis. 54——33

<<<Page: 515>>>

contrary to the design of their inventors, heat their surroundings, and it is only by making a virtue of necessity that this can be turned to the best advantage. The heat expended in this involuntary heating process, added to that expended in useful mechanical work, gives the total of: heat which the medium (vapors or gases) had received from the higher temperature of the heat source. If the work performed be measured and a careful calculation of all the losses of heat made, it follows that the work done by the machine is the exact equivalent of the apparently lost amount of heat.*
It is not only in thermo-dynamic machines, but in all conversion of heat into work (as both practice and theory teach us), that it may be said that but a small part of the ‘descending ” heat, that is heat passing from the warmer to the colder body, can be transformed into useful work, for the greater portion of the heat passes directly as such to the colder body. Clausius has however demonstrated (1850) that heat can only pass over or “ascend” from a colder to a warmer body when for the raising of the temperature, work is expended. This proposition has the result that the last hope of the enthusiasts for a “perpetual motion” is entombed. Their hope was based on the possibility that the heat, which is produced in machines by impediments of motion—frietion, shocks, resistance of the medium—might be reconverted into work, and at least a mechanism might be constructed which would be permanently automatic. In this, one thing was forgotten, that heat can never be entirely converted into work, but that on the contrary only the smaller portion of the higher temperature from the source of heat can be thus transformed, and that the greater part of itin passing to bodies of lower temperature must ever remain as heat. The perpetuwum mobile therefore remains impossible.
By means of the theory of the conservation of energy the impossibility of a perpetual motion has been finally proved: for what is the result of that theory? Work can only be performed by an energy employed for the purpose ; if the latter is exhausted or transformed it can perform no further work. It can no longer be assumed that perhaps by means of the thermal, electrical, or magnetic forces the construction
*Clausius has suggested the employment of the term ergon to express the numerical value of the work-unit when measured by the heat-unit. And he further proposes an adjective form of this word (ergonized) as a substitute for the manifestly inaccurate term “latent” when applied to heat. As he well remarks: “This name originated when it was thought that the heat which can no longer be detected by our senses (when a body fuses or evaporates) still exists in the body in a peculiar concealed condition. According to the mechanical theory of heat, this notion is no longer tenable. All heat actually present in a body is sensible heat: the heat which disappears during fusion or evaporation is converted into work, and consequently exists no longer as heat. I propose, therefore, in place of latent heat to substitute the term ergonized heat.” (The Mechanical Theory of Heat. Edited by Prof. T. A. Hirst. 8vo. London. 1867. Sixth Memoir. Appendix A. pp. 253,255.) This coliection of memoirs, by Prof. R. Clausius, originally appeared in Poggendorfit’s Annalen, and they were translated from the German for the L. E, D. Philosophical Magazine, by Prof. J. Tyndall and others.

<<<Page: 516>>>

of a perpetual motion might be possible, because it is known that all energies, be their names what they may, can only be converted into work in equivalent amounts and that the reconversion of heat into work is only partially possible.
Through resistances to motion a portion of the kinetic energy is always transformed into heat ; if such resistance should exist in free space the energy resulting from gravitation would in part be converted into heat. Laplace (1799-1825) assumed an absolutely void universe for the endless duration of the planetary system; according to the present condition of science, we are obliged to assume (on account of the radiation of light and heat) that the universe is filled with an imponderable, exceedingly rare, and extraordinarily elastic substance, termed ether.
The tenuity of this assumed vether is so great that as yet the result of its resistance as manifested in retardation has been perceptible only in the course of Encke’s comet, but in no other celestial body. What would be the effects of a medium which would retard the motion of the celestial bodies? Tirst, instead of the lost kinetic energy there would be heat; then, the attraction of the central body being supposed to be unimpaired, the tangential motion of the planetary bodies would be diminished through the resistance of the medium; the effect of the attractive force of the sun would be manifested in a greater degree, i. ¢., these celestial bodies would disclose the existence of a resisting medium by their contracting orbits and an increased velocity. This seems to be really so in the case of Encke’s comet, according to recent observations; and the final fate of this comet may be its precipitation into the sun.*
J.R. Mayer (1848) assumed such a precipitation of innumerable bodies (asteroids), in order to explain whence the sun obtained the supply of heat which it is constantly radiating. In such a precipitation of asteroids into the sun the energy of the mechanical motion would be transformed into the energy of heat of sufficient intensity to account for the unimpaired conservation of the sun’s heat. Helmholtz explains the supply of the sun’s radiation differently, in calculating that a continuous condensation of the sun, whose origin was a cosmic nebula, would preserve its heat for an incalculable period of time.
As with the heat of the sun, so the internal heat of the earth is explained by J. R. Mayer, by the precipitating of smaller bodies upon each other; by Helmholtz, by the condensation of the earth from an originally cosmic nebula, both basing their respective calculations upon the mechanical equivalent of heat. The result of such calculations teaches that on the basis of the above hypotheses incomparably higher degrees and greater amounts of heat come into action than from any known combustion or chemical combination, and that consequently in regard to the sun, on the assump#ion of the above hypotheses, the heat
*[ That the observed acceleration of Encke’s comet is really due to an wtherial resistance (as is so commonly assumed), appears to be extremely improbable.—Ed. ]

<<<Page: 517>>>

and light phenomena must have a much more intense character than could be derived from any assumed combustions and chemical processes, so that the spectral phenomena of the sun are in nowise contradictory, but rather in accordance with the above suppositions.
Although the heat produced by combustion and chemical combinations is by no means sufficient to explain the retention of the sun’s heat (at least not according to terrestrial data and knowledge), these sources are yet sufficiently striking and important to us, so that we are induced to search for their primary cause; and this all the more, as the heat from combustion is to us in many cases indispensable. If a body falls by reason of gravity, and its course downward is suddenly arrested, the visible kinetic energy is changed to molecular motion or heat; in a similar manner we suppose that the atoms of substances, acting upon each other in non-measurable proximity and under favorable conditions, precipitate themselves with violence upon each other, by virtue of their chemical attraction or relation, and so form the molecules of a new composition, wherein, by the violent shock, the suddenly arrested motion is converted into the molecular motion termed heat. Just as the lifting of astone for the purpose of separating it from the ground requires work, which it returns in an equal measure in its downfall. and which finally turns into molecular motion or heat, so we require also energy, or in many cases even heat itself, in the dissolution of chemical combinations. Chemically separated substances may be compared to lifted weights or tightened springs; in short, they possess potential energy, which in the chemical combination is again converted into kinetic energy, mostly heat. This appears most strikingly in the chemical combination of substances with oxygen, from which result the phenomena of light and heat, and which is called combustion; and from the heat thereby generated heat was first measured. In all oxidations and, speaking more generally, in every chemical combination, whether produced directly or indirectly, at one time or at different periods, an equally large amount of heat is always produced for this combination. If, for instance, a weight-unit of coal were first converted into carbonic oxide and this into carbonic acid, just as much heat will have been developed in the end as if the coal had been converted into carbonic acid directly.
The oxidizable components of the blood in human and animal bodies suffer a slow and gradual oxidation, whereby the human and animal vital heat is produced. As the products of oxidation of the living animal body are thrown off by respiration (carbonic acid, water, and nitrogen), by perspiration (water, carbonic acid, and various combinations), and in other ways, a compensation for these oxidized substances becomes necessary. This compensation is secured by means of food, which is always taken from either the animal or vegetable kingdom, and must, on the whole, be oxidizable, because its components eventually are oxidized in the animal blood; that is, they combine chemically with the oxygen of the inhaled air. In animals a part of their heat is

<<<Page: 518>>>

converted into mechanical work, as in the case of the steam-engine, and as demonstrated by calculations, to more advantage than in the latter, since the animal body provides in addition for its involuntary motions. According to the theory of the conservation of energy, a@ man, when working, must, under otherwise unchanged conditions, expend more heat than when resting, consequently a more considerable oxidation or a greater consumption of oxygen must ensue.
Through the continuous process of oxidation the products thereof, namely, carbonic acid and ammonia, would accumulate in a threatening manner if plants did not put them to use in their construction, partly directly and partly absorbed in water. The carbonic acid consumed by plants is decomposed under the influence of the sun’s light, the carbon is retained as material in their construction, the oxygen is exhaled by the leaves and again consumed by the animal creation. Thus plants prepare for man and beast the oxygen required by them, and these in return give back their requisite carbonic acid. This circuit, which conditions the life of plants and animals, extends not only to oxygen, but is a general one, as first shown by Liebig (1840-46), as plants supply to animals the required combustible matter, in the shape of food, while the animals contribute to plants the products of combustion. But as in this circular course the heat of animals passes off externally, and ‘the mechanical work performed is not employed in the needful decomposition of those products of oxidation, we must seek the source of energy which again resolves them into their chemical components. We find this in the sun, which, by means of its rays, can, according to circums*‘ances, either produce or dissolve chemical combinations. We have previously indicated that the sun’s rays decompose the components of the carbonic acid consumed by plants, and in this wise produce oxygen for the inhalation of animals.
The energy of radiation emanating from the sun is in part laid up in the plants as potential, and partly it is changed to the kinetic energy required in meteorological events. The latter transformation serves again
-for the benefit of plants through the meteorological circulation of water. As plants serve animals and men for food (directly, or, in the subsistence on meat, indirectly), and the animal excretions are in due course made use of by vegetation, it is apparent that ultimately the sun is the preserving principle of the organic creation. On the existence of the sun depends the constant preservation of the circular course of the terrestrial organisms; and as the heat supply of the sun is assured for at least millions of years, the constant renewal of terrestrial organisms is guaranteed for a very long period.
The theory of heat has thus led us to the discovery of the mechanical equivalent of heat, and this again to the theory of the conservation of energy. Guided by this theory we have passed over several of the principal departments in physics; we have nowhere come upon a contradiction; everywhere previously isolated phenomena haye been united in

<<<Page: 519>>>

one. Inthe theorem of the conservation of matter we have an analogue to that of the conservation of energy ; the similarity of the two theorems extends, however, only to the indestructibility and increatibility of matter and energy. In the following points some dissimilarities appear, to wit: The doctrine of the eonservation of matter may in all cases be established with more ease and accuracy than that of the conservation of energy, by direct quantitive measurement; but as yet no transformation of a simple substance into another has become known, while the manifold transformations of energy have been learned. The possibility of the transformation of the latter permits the assumption that there exists but one single original energy, from which the individual energies (gravitation, affinity, radiation, electricity, and magnetism) are the particular manifestations. It has been supposed, nevertheless, that possibly one. single, indivisible, elementary matter may exist, of which the known elements might be variations or allotropes, in the same manner as carbon, which appears as graphite and diamond; or as phosphorus, which exists in the ordinary and the red forms; or as sulphur, inethe ordinary and the amorphous forms; but as yet success has not been had in. the reduction of chemical elements to one single fundamental one of which the hypothetical sther might even be a variation.
In the same way as within the last quarter of the past century, the. emphasizing of the indestructibility and inereatibility of matter caused a complete revision and reform of the theories of chemistry, so in this céntury, since the discovery of the indestructibility, transformability, and increatibility of energy, a regeneration of the fundamental theories of physics and of the exposition of natural science in general has taken place; natural science thereby has regained its connection with philosophy. Onasecure basis, the fundamental theories of natural science may now be deduced, and the bond of unity is now entwined around the formerly disjoined branches. Natural science gains thereby daily in simplicity and depth, and the theory of the conservation of matter and energy is the safely guiding compass on the sea of perplexing, individual phenomena. And though the apothegm “Into the inmost heart of nature enters no created mind ” still remains true, the veil is at least lifted which envelops that inner part of it.

<<<Page: 520>>>

By E. H. von BAUMHAUER, Permanent Secretary of the Society of Sciences of Holland, Haarlem.

<<<Page: 521>>>

Such an observatory, if it occupied but little space and were sufficiently light, might easily be attached to a captive balloon, the cable of which ould serve to maintain the required communication between the instruments and the ground.
The problem proposed by the society is a little vague in its terms, so that it is necessary to repeat it in a more definite form, specifying different conditions which would materially affect the solution.
1. A primary and very important point is whether by “ considerable elevation” is meant a fixed accessible point, such as the summit of a mountain or a rock in the ocean, furnishing a solid base for the instruments, or an elevated point in the atmosphere to which the instruments are borne by means of a kite or a captive balloon. In the latter case, in fact, a mercurial barometer could not be used, even if hung on gimbals, since excessively great oscillations would be produced by the slightest breeze. Besides, barometrical observations will be of little value in determining variations of atmospheric pressure unless it be positively certain that the instrument has constantly remained at the same height above the level of the sea, or it be definitely known how many feet the balloon carrying it has ascended or descended.
It is true the height of a captive balloon may be deduced from the length of cable unrolled and the angle made by it with the vertical ; but on account of possible oscillations, and of the curve which the cable assumes, this determination will always be very difficult and uncertain, and an error of ten or twenty feet in the height of the balloon will correspond to a difference of one one-hundredth of an inch in the height of the barometric column.
2. It is not a matter of indifference, either, in the solution of the problem, whether the observatious are to be recorded where the instruments are placed, and therefore be known only at the end of a long series, or whether it be required that the instruments of the detached observatory should transmit their indications regularly to the main observatory for comparison with the observations made there. ‘The latter system, which most meteorologists would doubtless prefer, will naturally require telegraphic communication, which the former could dispense with.
3. Finally, an essential point is to iknow for what time the automatic registry should be made without the necessity of visiting the detached observatory to wind the clock or make any other change. The difficulty would evidently not be the same if the apparatus be required to run twenty-four hours, a month, or a year.
In discussing the question proposed by the Netherland § Society we wili endeavor to keep in view the conditions we have just named, and we will consequently distinguish two different kinds of detached observatories, namely :
1. Those intended simply to, collect observations for ten days at most, the records of which need not be known before the expiration of that period.

<<<Page: 522>>>

2. Those which, placed at a very elevated point, can only be visited oceasionally, and which must transmit their observations immediately and regularly to the main observatory.
Finally, we will speak of observatories suspended to captive balloons, and which belong to one or the other of the preceding categories according to whether their observations require to be transmitted or not.
Whatever arrangement be adopted, in order that it render service to meteorology it should satisfy a great many strict conditions, the principal of which are the following:
1. The instruments should give exact indications. We do not speak here, however, of excessive refinement, for meteorologists are agreed in acknowledging that a difference of =), or + of a degree Fahrenheit for thermometric observations, or of =}, or 54,5 of an inch in the height of the barometric column, is not worth regarding. Readings to ~ degree Fahrenheit for thermometric observations, and 545 or 745 of an inch for barometric height, are sufficiently accurate, the essential point being that the records be always correct.
2. The instruments should be as simple as possible, in order that the chances of derangement be reduced to a minimum.
3. The first cost should not be too great.
4. It is important that human aid be dispensed with as much as possible; the instruments should work and the records be made without the assistance of the meteorologist.
5. The registering apparatus should be so arranged that all the observations be collected in one table and recorded in the form of curves, so that the movements of the instruments may be seen at a glance.
6. In the case of electrical connection between the detached and the main observatory the number of electric conductors should be as small as possible. This condition applies particularly in the case of a captive balloon, since it is necessary to avoid increasing too far the weight of the cable to be earried by the balloon.
7. When a galvanic current is employed, the instruments themselves should not form part of the circuit, because the working of the instruments would be affected thereby, especially under the influence of the sparks which pass at the instant of opening or closing the current; these sparks, too, passing between metallic surfaces, would produce oxidation, and consequently deterioration, of the instruments. For this reason the use of mercurial barometers and thermometers furnished with platinum wires hermetically sealed in the glass appears to me absolutely out of the question.
We do not need to decide on the form of barometer to be used, whether the siphon or the cistern barometer, the balanced barometer employed in Secchi’s meteorograph, or an aneroid barometer. The method of recording observations which I have adopted allows of the use of all forms, since even in the siphon barometer motion may be communicated to a lever by means of a float, as in the dial barometer.

<<<Page: 523>>>

As regards temperature, any of the instruments may be used which depend upon the expansion of solid bodies, so as to afford the means of moving a lever. Such are Breguet’s thermometer, Secchi’s thermograph—founded on the linear expansion of a copper rod, and Dr. Krecke’s metallic thermometer—founded on the different rates of expansion of zine and glass.* The air thermometer may also be employed, the lever being actuated by a float on the surface of the mercury in the manometer. The ordinary mercurial thermometer alone is inadmissible here. t
*As, to my knowledge, Krecke’s metallic thermometer has never been described, and as it deserves a more general use in meteorological observatories, on account of its simplicity, accuracy, and ready adaptation to automatic registry, I give here the principle of its coustruction.
Two glass tubes, 0 0 (Fig. I), about 5 feet long and 1 inch in diameter, have their ends closed with two iron plates, A and B, the lower one, B, being fastened firmly to a wall, while the other is so attached to the wall as to permit a slight displacement. To the piece A is connected a zine bar, C C’, and to the piece B a similar bar, D D’. These bars are otherwise entirely free throughout the rest of their length, but, in order to prevent them from bending, a ring is placed near the free end of each, so as to slip without sensible friction on the glass tubes 0 0. In order that the zine bars may quickly assume the temperature of the air they must not be too thick, and yet they must have sufficient rigidity, which is secured by making them trough-shaped. At the free end of the bar D D’ asteel support, p, is fixed, against which rests the brass lever R M, somewhat like the arm of a balance. The arms D’ M and D’R of this lever are unequal, and there is a movable counterpoise, R, on the shorter arm, the distance of which from D’ is so regulated that the weight of the arm D’ M is slightly in excess. In the lever there is also a screw, 8, the point of which is turned upward and rests against the lower and free end of the zine bar CC’. By means of this screw the position of the lever may be altered so as to raise or lower the pencil attached to its extremity M.
The operation of this apparatus is easily understood. When the temperature rises the zine bars
lengthen about 4 times as much as the glass B tubes, D’ rises while C’ falls, and the lever then Fie. I.
turns around a point situated between C’ and D’ and the pencil M is moved upwards. When the temperature falls the opposite effect is produced.
tl have been informed that at the Brussels observatory a mercurial thermometer is employed, the horizontal tube of which is balanced on a knife-edge, so that the mercurial column, in expanding, causes the extremity of the tube to incline more and more, thus allowing the indications of the instrument to be registered as a dial instrument.

<<<Page: 524>>>

For the determination of the hygrometric condition of the air those instruments alone can be used which depend on the expansion and contraction of certain animal substances, and on the communication of these movements to an index. There will still remain to be provided for, the registration of the direction of the wind by means of the wind-vane, the velocity of the wind by means of Robinson’s anemometer, and finally the amount of rainfall. Allof these may be simultaneously recorded by the arrangement I am about to describe.
ie DETACHED OBSERVATORIES WITHOUT TRANSMISSION OF RECORDS.
The slight interest which meteorologists feel in observations the results of which they do not see before the end of a certain period is, without doubt, the reason why observatories of this kind have not been long in use. Their erection would, in fact, present no difficulty, and they would have the advantage that a number could be kept up with a small force of assistants—at least if they were not too widely separated. Each would require to be visited but about once in every ten or fifteen days, in order to wind the clock, change the blanks, and inspect the instruments. They could be located anywhere, but, preferably, away from habitations; the first cost of erection would be very slight, and the only precautions necessary would be to protect the instruments from injury by rain and wind or malicious persons. The observations—automatically and continuously recorded according to an established system—would offer to the meteorologist a guarantee of accuracy which no human records possess, since to the latter may always be objected “‘hwumanum est errare.”
The following arrangement appears to me completely to satisfy the proposed conditions :
An aneroid barometer, a metallic thermometer, and a hair hygrometer are placed side by side on a board so that the pivots of their indexes are ina straight line. These indexes are of equal length and move in the same plane, but so that the greatest sweep of each will not describe an are of over 120° at most. A little way above these indexes is placed a sheet of paper—kept in uniform motion by clockwork—on which there have been previously drawn lines marking out spaces corresponding to the are described by the tip of each index. A pencil attached to this tip will trace a curve on the paper which will indicate at the same time the successive readings of the instruments and the corresponding time. But the friction of a pencil on the paper would be too great for such delicate instruments, and would necessarily falsify the indications. It would be infinitely better to have recourse to the method generally adopted at present in physical laboratories for the registration of delicate motions, which consists in the use of glazed white paper previously blackened above a resinous flame, on which a feather, attached to the tip of

<<<Page: 525>>>

the index, rubs without sensible friction, tracing a white line upon it. These lines may subsequently be fixed by dipping the paper in gum wate or thin varnish.
It would be better, instead of the blackened paper, to use a plate of glass blackened in the same way. When the observations are reco:ied, the plate may be laid on a piece of paper impregnated with silver-salt and both exposed to the light; the lines where the lampblack has been rubbed off will then print black on the paper. If scales, in degrees or hundredths of an inch, as well as time divisions, have been engraved on the plate by means of a diamond, we will readily obtain on the sensitive paper all the data required. The first exposure to light gives, as we have said, the reproduction in black lines of the curves traced by the feather points; then if, leaving the sensitive paper firmly fixed under the glass plate, we clean the latter with a cloth so as to remove all the lampblack, except what is left in the grooves made by the diamond, and the plate be again exposed a short time to the light, the whole surface of the paper will assume a gray tint, on which the curves previously obtained will stand outin black, while the diamond rulings will be in white. After being treated with hyposulphite of soda and washed in water this will give a permanent table of observations which may be reproduced by photography if, instead of sensitive paper, we use a collodion film, to be afterwards employed as a negative.
We will see presently that the direction and velocity of the wind and the amount of rain-fall may be recorded by straight lines, so that these indications may also be made on the blackened glass plate by means of a feather point.
There is, therefore, no difficulty in fitting up a detached observatory, which may be visited, for example, twice a month, and in which an ordinary clock, running 15 days without being rewound, registers observations which the meteorologist does not care to examine before the expiration of that period. The difficulty commences only when the meteorologist from his station at the principal observatory wishes to know at each instant the indications of the instruments at the more or less distant observatory, in order to compare the phenomena observed at the two stations.
i. DETACHED OBSERVATORIES TRANSMITTING RECORDS.
Let us take an aneroid barometer having, as is usually the case, on the glass cover a second index for the purpose of comparing the state of the barometer at any given instant with that of a subsequent time. Remove the glass plate, maintaining the second index, however, in its position above the index of the barometer, and give to the latter a uniform motion of rotation around its axis. In other words, let us imagine an aneroid barometer without glass cover, and opposite to it a clock so placed tha

<<<Page: 526>>>

the arbor on which the minute hand turns is in the prolongation of the axis on which the index of the barometer turns. Now, designating the index by A and the minute hand by B, it is clear that B will at some point of each revolution be directly over A.
The planes in which the two hands move being supposed to lie a few hundreths of an inch apart, let us attach a “ point” * to the extremity of B, which, passing over the extremity of A, will establish metallic connection between the two without however producing sufficient friction to move A out of its position. Let us also connect A by a conducting wire with the positive pole of a battery placed at the central station, and B with the negative pole of the battery; then, at each revolution of B there will be an instant when the circuit will be closed.
At some point on the positive wire, near the battery, let us place an apparatus consisting of a vertical metallic cylinder moved by clockwork, so as to make one revolution in the same time as the minute hand B, and also descend a little at each revolution. Let this metallic cylinder
be covered with a sheet of dampened paper impregnated with some salt which will be changed in color under the action of a galvanic current (for instance, iodide of potassium and starch). If then a “ point” connected with the negative pole rest on the dampened paper, it is evident that at each revolution of the cylinder a colored spot will be made on the paper at the instant when the two hands A and B come in contact. As the hand B and the cylinder have an isochronous movement, it will now only be necessary to have divisions on the paper corresponding to those on the aneroid barometer in order that the indications of the latter be recorded on the paper.
Since, however, the index of the aneroid barometer in its greatest oscillations describes at most an are of but 120° it will be evident that this apparatus may serve to record more than barometric indications alone. For instance, let us place opposite the aneroid and at a short distance from it a circular metallic thermometer, the index of which C shall have the same length as that of the aneroid, and have its axis in the prolongation of the axis of the aneroid. Let this thermometer be so placed that the middle point on its graduated are (60°) will be diametrically opposite to the middle position of the index A of the aneroid barometer (30 ins.). Let the clock be as before described, except that the minute hand B revolves between the planes of the two indexes A and C. Now, ifan S-shaped “point” be attached to the extremity of the index B, instead of the single point before described, then, if the instruments are properly adjusted, at each revolution of B it will come once into contact with A and once with C. The latter being connected like A with the wire from the positive pole, two records will be produced on the sensitive paper at each revolution, which will never be confounded on account of their different positions.

<<<Page: 527>>>

Such was my first idea, and, in spite of the modifications which I have successively made, it still forms the basis of the mechanism which I am about to describe, and which seems to solve, in a simple way, the problem of a complete meteorograph for detached observatories.
In this description, as well as in the figures designed to make it more readily understood, I neglect entirely the meteorological instruments themselves, pecs as I have already said, any instrument may be employed which is capable of transmitting its movements to a lever. The figures, then, show only the levers terminating in toothed segments which gear into the toothed wheels to which the indexes are attached.
In all these instruments the motions of the levers should be so regulated that the indexes in their widest excursions may only describe a determined are, the number of degrees in which should depend on the number of instruments desired to be combined in the meteorograph. In the example which I have chosen the indexes need not be separated more than 90° in order to avoid coming in contact with each other, and in order that the indications of any instrument may never encroach on the zone of the cylinder intended for another. The system I have adopted depends, in fact, on the successive observation of the different instruments.
For records of wind and rain a different arrangement is required. The determination of the direction of the wind requires an entire revolution, and so also does the measurement of its velocity by Robinson’s anemometer; in the case of the latter I have provided that the recording wheel shall make but one revolution while the current of air passes over a space of 20 kilometres (12 miles), which is seldom less than an hour.
For the rain-gauge I propose an arrangement which I have recommended for many years for the measurement of liquids in general and of granular solids. or powders, which figure II will render intelligible without detailed explanation.
Let A be a reservoir of known sectional area, serving to collect the rain, the quantity of which is to be measured. The water falls through the dae a (at the bottom of which is a watering-pot rose, represented in M, in order that the fall of water may not produce a shock) into a bucket, b b b, which has the form of a sector of a cylinder and ean oscillate on the axis d. As the figure shows, there are two buckets of equal size coupled together, one of which is always under the rain-tube while the other is discharging the water it has collected. The transverse section of the buckets is a scalene triangle, so that the vertical plane passing through the axis divides the bucket into two parts of unequal capacities. The excess of weight in the onter part tips the bucket, and, in order that the amount of water necessary to produce this motion (for example, a litre or a fraction of a litre) may be regulated with precision, the lips m m of the buckets fall on India rubber cushions o 0, the position of which is regulated by the screws R R. The figure shows how the movement

<<<Page: 528>>>

is afterwards transmitted to a wheel, every revolution of which corresponds to 100 litres (or determined parts of a litre) of water which has passed through the apparatus.
We have, then, three pieces of apparatus, the motions of which are
Fia. JI.
finally resolved into one of rotation, which, for simplicity of registration, should be transformed into a rectilinear movement. The simplest means

<<<Page: 529>>>

of making this transformation appears to me to be what I am about to describe. It should not be forgotten that the construction of my meteorograph rests on the hypothesis that the indications of each meteorological instrument be registered once an hour. The instruments for recording the velocity of the wind and the quantity of rain should therefore be so arranged that the wheel which makes the records shall never make more than one entire revolution in an hour; otherwise it would be doubtful whether the current of air had traversed, for instance, 2 or 22 kilometres during the hour elapsed, or whether the rain-gauge had discharged 5 or 105 litres of water. Suppose two wheels, A and B (Fig. IIL), of the same diameter, lying in the same plane and placed so [4 that the distance between their centers shall be exactly equal to the circumference of each. An endless band or chain, passing e is , around the wheels, connects P mt them together. To this chain are attached three pins, b b b, at equal distances and consequently the length of the circumference of the wheels apart. If, now, the wheel A is put in motion by one of the instruments, this motion will be transmitted to the endless chain and to the wheel B. At every stage of the movement one of the pins will be traversing the scale p p, placed underneath one of the straight portions of the chain; in a complete revolution of A the pin will travel the entire length of the scale, and when it leaves the scale near B the following pin will immediately replace it at A. We will now pass to the description of the registering apparatus, and take up, at first, that part which is placed in the detached observatory. The lever A (Fig. IV) is put in motion by a barometer, B by a metallic thermometer, and C by a hygrometer. Each of these communicates its motions to a special wheel, A’ B’ C’, to which is attached the index of the instrument, as shown in the section Fig IVb. These levers and wheels are not situated in the same plane, but placed one above another, so that the wheels turn on a common axis, but perfectly independently of each other. The extremities of the indexes, however, should move in one and the same plane, very near to, but entirely clear of, the divided arc M M M M, and for this reason two of them are bent. The indexes themselves or at least their extremities, which terminate in a thin fine tip, are of ebonite—a substance which does not conduct electricity. Finally, each of these indexes, even in its widest excursions, moves over but a quarter of the circle, so as not to come into contact with the others. Three of the quadrants being allotted to the barometer, the thermometer, and the hygrometer, I use the fourth for the indications—transformed, as before mentioned—of the wind vane X, the anemometer Y, and the
Pre. IL:

<<<Page: 530>>>

rain guage Z. The pins for registering these indications are also of ebonite, and may run with considerable friction over their scales, since there is in these instruments a superabundance of motive force.
In the case of the wind vane, which, by its sudden and extended oscillations, may often endanger the gold “point” of which we are about to
Fic. IV.
Fia. IV bd.
speak, I propose to use a strained rubber band around the two wheels, instead of a chain or leather band, in order to lessen the intensity of the shocks.
The divided limb MM M M may be made of metal or any other material, but its outer edge should be of platinum or of brass, heavily goldplated, because through it the galvanic current is made and broken, and consequently it is necessary to preserve it from oxidation. In front of the graduated limb is a clock, of which Fig IV b shows only the minute hand R R, the arbor of which is in the prolongation of the axis around which the several indexes turn. This minute hand is of metal, and carries at its extremity a metal “point” x, which glides over the platinum or gilt rim of the divided circle. The rim being connected by a conduct-
S. Mis. 54-——34

<<<Page: 531>>>

ing wire to the positive pole of a battery, the negative pole‘of which is connected in the same way with the minute hand, the current will then pass so long as the gold point rests in contact with the divided circle, but when the point meets one of the indexes the current will be interrupted for an instant by the interposition of the ebonite tip, but will be restored so soon as the point is freed from that obstacle.
When the minute hand has traversed the entire circle—that is to say, after an houvr’s time—the current will have been momentarily interrupted (in the example we have chosen) six times. These interruptions may now be made use of at the central observatory, which communicates by means of a telegraph wire with the outlying observatory, to record the indications of the instruments on a cylinder covered with a sheet of paper, rotated by clock work once an hour, the rotation of which is therefore isochronous with that of the minute hand at the outlying station.
The isochronism of the two movements is the condition on which the accuracy of the meteorograph depends; in order to judge if it is fulfilled, little ebonite plates eee are fixed on the divided circle. We will see, later, how these plates give the desired in formation in regard to the working of the clock at the detached observatory.
On the spindle of the registering eylinder (Fig. V) is cut a screw-thread which runs in the nut p, so that at each revolution the cylinder descends a little—for example, a millimetre (,4, inch.)
Beside the cylinder an electro-magnet, A, is placed, which attracts a piece of soft iron, b b, hinged at d, to which is attached a pencil, steel point, or diamond, pressed against the cylinder by a spring. While the current is closed the pencil is kept away from the cylinder, but at each interruption of the current in the detached observatory it is pressed against the surface of the cylinder and makes a dot or a line upon it. When the current is again closed, the pencil is again withdrawn by the action of the magnet.
A glance at Fig. V will suffice for the perfect understanding of this system. The straight lines 0 o which serve to regulate the isochronic
Fie. V.

<<<Page: 532>>>

FOR DETACHED OBSERVATORIES. Ded:
movement of the two clocks, are formed by a number of points or dashes made by the interruption of the current by little ebonite plates in the divided arc of the apparatus at the detached ovservatory. It the clock at that station has a faster or slower rate than that at the principal station, these lines will not be parallel to the axis of the cylinder, but oblique, and in case of an irregular rate will even exhibit sinuosities. We are thus kept informed of the state of things, and, if it be impossible to go to the detached observatory, the main clock may be made to keep time with the defective inaccessible clock, taking note, of course, of the corrections which this alteration renders necessary. The construction of a clock to run a year without winding is declared by skillful clock-makers to present no difficulty, so that an observatory, the essential details of which I have briefly sketched, may then operate even on those steep peaks the ascension of which can only be made during two summer months. <A telegraph wire connecting the isolated post with the main station is all that is necessary in order that the distant observations be regularly registered.
We have so far spoken of two independent clocks, but who that is familiar with the improvements in telegraphs and electric clocks eannot understand that the minute hand at the detached observatory may be kept in motion by the same clock that turns the cylinder at the principal station? For this purpose, however, a second telegraphic wire would be necessary, which would uselessly increase the expense of establishing the outlying station.
But, adopting another arrangement, I believe that the same wire may serve both to move the hand—which we will still call the minute hand, though it does not now deserve the name—and to transmit the indications of the instruments. We have before considered that the minute hand will make one revolution in an hour, so that, according to the state of the instruments, the record of the barometer is made, for example, at ten minutes past twelve, that of the thermometer at twenty-eight minutes past twelve, the hygrometer a quarter of an hour later, and those of the direction and velocity of the wind and the rain-fall in the fourth quarter of the hour. But such a difference would not satisfy meteorologists who prefer the simultaneous observation of all the instruments so as to have a complete view of the state of the atmosphere at any given moment. Consequently, instead of having the minute hand at the detached observatory and the cylinder at the central station make one revolution during the space of an hour, I propose to have them make the entire revolution in a very short space of time—a few minutes at most—the hand and the eylinder remaining at rest during the remainder of the hour. Once an hour the clock of the principal station would raise a catch at the other station, and the apparatus would then be set in motion by means of a weight or spring so regulated by a pendulum as to make a complete revolution in two or three minutes—the eylinder at at the main station being put at the same time into isochronous motion.

<<<Page: 533>>>

During this revolution the galvanic current is employed only in transmitting the indications of the instruments in the way before described; but, as soon as the revolution is finished, the minute hand is caught again and the current is made to set in motion a train of clockwork to raise the weight or wind up the spring, until the hour is ended and the minute hand begins another revolution.
In some preliminary trials with the apparatus I have encountered a difficulty which has obliged me to make a slight addition to it. The index of the aneroid barometer can overcome but a feeble resistance, even a slight touch being sufficient to move it from its position, and the same is the case with the hair hygrometer; the metallic thermometer, however, is much less sensitive in this respect, particularly that of Dr. Krecke. The indexes of these instruments, as has been said before, should not touch the surface of the divided are, but should move freely a slight distance above it; since however on the other hand, the point attached to the minute hand should not be too fine if we wish to maintain electrical connection with the metallic rim for several months without cleaning the surfaces, it would be apt while passing over the tips of the barometer and hygrometer indexes to carry them with it and thus give a false record of the indications of these instruments. To avoid this source of trouble the same mechanism which produces the escape of the minute hand presses down a finely grooved ring, ss s, Figs. [V and LV bd, so as to hold the indexes against the divided cirele during the short period of the revolution of the hana that the gold point may run over their ebonite tips without risk of displacing them. While the minute hand is at rest the ring will be raised and the indexes again left free to move. The stoppage of the motion of the indexes for a minute or two would be of no consequence, since in so short a time the variations in the instruments would be extremely slight. In the case of the indexes which mark the direction of the wind and the amount of rainfall such an arrangement would be unnecessary, as the motive force is very great and the ebonite points, as said before, may press on the plate.
The problem of registering the indications of meteorological instruments placed at a considerable distance from the observer or at a great height above him is then completely solved. As regards, however, the hygrometrie condition of the air I believe that while August’s, Daniel’s, and the hair or catgut hygrometers furnish close approximations to the truth, a determination of the weight of water contained in a known quantity of air is the only way to obtain exact results. My hygrometric areometer* will make this determination in a very simple way and also permit of automatic registry. There is nothing to prevent our obtaining the air from a distant point by means of an aspirator and a rubber tube and passing it through the areometer at the principal station. As the detached observatory is connected with this station by a telegraph wire the latter may be placed inside the rubber tube, which will then serve as
* Archives Néerlandaises T vi, p. 419. Poggendorff’s Ann, Bd, Xciu, p. 343.

<<<Page: 534>>>

an insulator. The observation would only be incorrect in case the air of the distant point has a higher temperature than that of some point in the course of the rubber tube, as in this case a part of the vapor would be condensed in the tube, and consequently would not reach the areometer. But, in general, this would not be likely to occur, because, since the temperature of the air usually decreases as we ascend, the existence of a warm and moist stratum above a colder one will be of but exceptional occurrence.
Before concluding, I must add a word in regard to the case where it is desired to make use of a captive balloon for carrying the observatory to
. the elevated regions of the atmosphere and supporting it there for a considerable time. The apparatus I propose is perfectly adapted to this purpose, and requires but two conducting wires in the cable which holds the balloon captive.
It will, of course, be objected that the balloon, losing gas rapidly, could not be kept up for more than two days; but this difficulty appears to me capable of being overcome in a very simple way. The two conducting wires in the cable should be insulated from each other, which might be simply done by inclosing each in an India-rubber tube. Now, one of these tubes may be made use of to carry a continuous current cf gas into the balloon to supply its losses, while through the other the air of the elevated region may be drawn down by an aspirator to the hygrometric areometer. Thus supplied, the balloon would float in the air until the approach of a tempest—foretold by the observations—would render it necessary to draw it down again.
But there is still another objection, to which so far I can make no satisfactory answer, namely, the impossibility of maintaining the captive balloon at the same height, especially in a region where strong winds prevail. In such a case the record of the barometer is of no service except to give an approximate idea of the elevation of the instruments, and it will be impossible to tell whether the observed barometric variations are due to differences in the height of the balloon or to differences in the atmospheric pressure at the same height.
The use of captive balloons is always attended with a serious defect, namely, the limited height (3,000 feet at most) to which they can be raised, since, without mentioning other difficulties, the weight of the cable will soon become so great that the balloon must be very large to support it. But we can obtain meteorological observations from much greater elevations (from 15,000 to 30,000 feet, for example) by means of the detached observatory without transmission of records. By its relatively moderate price and its light weight this apparatus would, in fact, be well adapted to be suspended from a small balloon allowed to float freely in the atmosphere. Supposing that of ten balloons left to themselves one or two should fall into the sea or in uninhabited places and thus be totally lost, the expense of the experiment would still be much less than the ascension of a balloon large enough to carry the observers.

<<<Page: 535>>>

The registering barometer would then give the elevations corresponding to the several records of the temperature, moisture, &c., while an automatically registering compass would show the directions taken by the balloonin the different strata of the atmosphere traversed by it. In this case, the apparatus should, of course, be protected by an elastic covering capable of preventing shocks when the balloon strikes the earth. Thereshould be placed on the apparatus a notice in several languages that it is not to be opened, but forwarded to a specified address; while by means of articles in the newspapers of even the most distant nations we should endeavor to inform every one of the nature and object of these aerial visitors. This double precaution would doubtless dispel the notion of the unpractical nature of the plan which might at first be entertained.

<<<Page: 536>>>

In the latter part of August, 1879, the following circular was sent to all known public and private observatories in America:
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C.
My DEAR Str: It is desired to present in the annual report of this institution a yearly summary of the state and progress of astronomy in the United States and elsewhere. To this end it is requested that the directors of observatories, public and private, will return this cireular, with the blanks filled out and with such additional information as they may deem suitable for publication.
It is intended that one such circular shall reach every observatory, public or private, in the United States; if any have been omitted it has been by inadvertence, and notice of such ommissions is desired by the editor (Prof. EDWARD S. HoLDEN, U.S. Naval Observatory, Washingington, D. C.). .
It is proposed to continue the summaries in the future, and it is hoped that the directors of the various institutions will desire to furnish from year to year brief sketches of the activity of the observatories under their charge. In this way a record of current astronomical work will be kept up, which otherwise it is difficult to maintain in the absence of any American periodical specially devoted to astronomy.
Very truly yours, SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. To
Replies to this circular have been received as below up to September 15, 1879. They are here arranged in the alphabetic order by towns.
Location of observatory: (City) Allegheny; (County) Allegheny; (State) Pennsylvania. Name of observatory: ALLEGHENY OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington, 11™ 50%.84 W. Latitude, 40° 57’ 47/.6 N. J. PERSONNEL: Director, S. P. LANGLEY; Assistant, F. W. VERY.

<<<Page: 537>>>

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, TRoUGHTON & SDms; aperture, 4 inches; magnifying power, 150 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Firz, reworked by CLARK; aperture of objective, 13 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 to 1,200; equatorial carries a 12-inch flat mirror by CLARK at south end of its polar axis: also, position filar micrometer, polarizing solar eye-piece ; apparatus for projecting solar image; eight other subsidiary pieces.
(d) Spectroscopes: One employing large RUTHERFURD grating; one with small grating; one 2-prism spectroscope; apparatus for using large equatorial as collimator, ete.
(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus: A variety of thermopiles, used in connection with a THOMPSON reflecting galvanometer ; large BUNSEN photometer; small portable heliostat, ete.
(f) Chronographs: One of Bonn’s pattern, built by HAMBLET.
(g) Clocks: Mean time; two by HowARD, both break-circuit: sidereal ; one by FRODSHAM, break-cireuit.
(h) Chrodnometers: Mean time ; one by FRoDSHAM: sidereal; one FRopSHAM, break-circuit.
(7) Miscellaneous: One reflecting telescope of 64-inch aperture, specially used for obtaining an image projected any size without the employment of any enlarging lenses, and a number of subsidiary pieces for investigations in beat and light.
Electric appliances for the distribution of exact time, automatically and continuously to points outside the observatory.
From September, 1878, to September, 1879.
(b) Nightly observations of from 3 to 6 stars for time determinations; observations to determine the longitude of Ebensburg, Pa.
(c) Daily map of solar surface, drawn by projection on a scale of 8 inches to diameter; enlarged drawings of any spots; measurements by thermopiles of heat of solar image; study of protuberances, and other work with attached spectroscopes.
(d) Studies of the lower end of the spectrum; mapping of lines in the extreme red, ete.
(i) Comparison of solar heat with that of the BESSEMER converter; the distribution of exact time to cities, railroads, corporations, or individuals.
IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR, 1879-80: Systematic observation of sun as heretofore; continuance of researches now in progress, chiefly in solar physics; measurement of heat of diffraction spectrum by tasimeter, etc.; the continuance and extension of the ‘‘ time-service.”

<<<Page: 538>>>

1.8. P. LANGLEY, on certain remarkable groups in lower spectrum, in Proceedings of American Academy.
2. S. P. LANGLEY, on comparison of sun, in Proceedings of American Academy.
3. S. P. LANGLEY, on BESSEMER converter, in Proceedings of American Academy.
4, S. P. LANGLEY, on electric time service, in Journal of Electrical Society.
Location of observatory: (City) Annapolis; (County) Anne Ageia: (State) Maryland. Name of observatory: U. S. NAVAL ACADEMY OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington, E. 08 2™ 15°.91. Latitude N. 38° 58/ 53/”.5 Authority for latitude and longitude: latitude, Professor CHAUVENET; longitude, United States Coast Survey.
Lieutenant Commander ALLAN D. Brown, U.S. N., head of Department Astronomy, Navigation, ete.
Assistants: 1. Lieutenant Commander CHAs. J. TRAIN, Instructor
Astronomy, Navigation, ete. 2. Lieut. RAyMonD P. RopGERs, Instructor Astronomy, Navigation, ete. 3. Lieut. WM. J. BARNETTE, Instructor Astronomy, Navigation, etc. Il. INSTRUMENTS:
(a) Meridian circles: 1; maker, REPSOLD; diameter of circles, 28.7 inches; divided to 2’; read by four microscropes to 2’. Aperture of objective, 4 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 4 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, about 200 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 7.75 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 40, 106, 553, 966; micrometer eye-pieces 89, 226, 673.
(f) Chronographs ; One MorRsE fillet; one Transit of Venus Commission.
(g) Clocks: One sidereal; makers, ARNOLD, CHAS. FRODSHAM, 84 Strand, London.
(h) Chronometers: Mean time; makers, NEGUS, Nos. 1030, 1088, 1260; DENT 2099; Harron, 262. Sidereal; maker, NEGUS, Nos. 1520, 1527.
(t) Miscellaneous: One Taleott’s zenith telescope (WURDEMANN); one Transit of Venus telescope (STACKPOLE); portable transit (WURDEMANN).

<<<Page: 539>>>

III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: From October 1, 1878, to October 1, 1879. (a) Stars and sun (for time). . (‘) STACKPOLE zenith telescope for latitude (for purposes of instruction); portable transit for time (for same purposes).
IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR: (1879~80). Same as during past year.
Location of Observatory: (City) Battle Creek; (County) Calhoun; (State) Michigan. Name o7 Observatory: HigH SCHOOL OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington not determined. Latitude, not determined.
I. PERSONNEL: ARTHUR K. BARTLETT (private observer).
(a) Meridian circles, 1.
Aperture of objective, 4 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 2 to 4 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 75 diameters.
(i) Miscellaneous: The only instrument at present used in the “Observatory” is a 4-inch achromatic telescope, which was purchased by the board of education, about nine years ago, for the use of students and teachers in the high school. It was manufactured by PIKE, the New York optician, and is mounted upon a portable tripod-stand, provided with all the necessary adjustments. For the general observations of astronomy, it is regarded as one of the best telescopes in this State. The two celestial eye-pieces belonging to the instrument disappeared mysteriously about three years ago, having been stolen from the case in which they were kept; and as they have not since been replaced, the telescope has remained in a crippled condition without them. Butsome new eye-pieces are to be ordered soon, with powers varying from 45 to 275, together with colored eye-screens for observing the sun, and a comet eye-piece, with large field and low power. <A terrestrial eye-piece is at present being employed, with a power of about 75 diameters; but the telescope has been used to good advantage for observations of the moon, Jupiter’s satellites, and star-clusters.
A continual watch for meteors was made throughout the night of August 10, and a large number were observed between the hours of ten and eleven o’clock in the evening, but about midnight the moon made its appearance, and being near the ‘‘ radiant” in Perseus, prevented any

<<<Page: 540>>>

successful observations being made towards morning. More than one hundred shooting-stars were seen in the space of one hour before the moon interfered, and several bright meteors flashed across the sky, leaving luminous trains behind them, and presenting a fine appearance, notwithstanding the close proximity and brightness of the moon. Observations of the aurora were made on various occasions, although no extraordinary displays were seen; and on many successive evenings in March, the unusual and remarkable brightness of the zodiacal light was particularly noted.
The only systematic observations with the telescope since it was placed in the high-school building have been made by ARTHUR K. BARTLETT, of Battle Creek, who has used the instrument for practical purposes, and given private instructions to the students and others who are frequently entertained on pleasant evenings. This telescope has been used for various observations of the heavens. It was employed with success during the last transit of Mercury, on May 6, 1878, and the first external and internal contacts of the planet were well observed, but the last two were prevented by clouds. During the past year the instrument has been chiefly directed to observations of the various nebule, star-clusters, and the interesting phenomena of Jupiter’s satellites. An occultation of the star Antares by the moon was observed, and several drawings of celestial scenery were made by the aid of the telescope.
It is expected that the telescope will be provided with new eyepieces of high power some time this fall, and when they are secured the instrument will be in much better working order, so that it can be used in many other practical observations, for which it is not adapted at present. During the coming year I propose to study the sun at frequent intervals, when the weather is favorable, and shall employ the high powers mostly for observations of the planets, various nebule, and close double-stars. I shall also devote much time to literary work, and intend to lecture some during the winter. Meteoric astronomy, which has been a subject of special interest to me for some time past, will receive a good share of my attention in the future. The charming system of Jupiter will be studied with much pleasure, as in the past, and I also intend to continue my sketches and drawings of interesting objects in the heavens,
My publications have consisted mostly of newspaper articles on various astronomical subjects, which have been prepared with the object of presenting to general readers the principles and wonders of the science, and also to keep them informed concerning many interesting phenomena of the heavens. Among the articles contribued by me to the press dur

<<<Page: 541>>>

ing the past five years, were the following: “Double Stars”; “The King of Suns”; “Shooting-Stars”; “The Zodiacal Light”; “A Look along the Zodiac”; “The Study of Astronomy”; ‘The Prince of Planets”; “The Ringed Planet”; “A Celestial Panorama”; “The Moons of Jupiter”; “The Harvest Moon”; ‘Venus in the Daytime”; “ Prof. Richard A. Proctor”; “The Lunar Eclipse”; “ Celestial Fireworks”; “Frost and Dew”; ‘The Planetary System”; ‘ Motions of the Stars.’ In 1877, | published a pamphlet of 36 pages, containing a lecture of mine on ‘The Science of Astronomy,” embracing its sublimity, history’ progress, wonders, and utility. The lecture was prepared for the purpose of popularizing astronomy and rendering it a subject of more general interest.
There is no regular observatory in connection with the high school, but it consists of an apartment located on the third and upper floor of the building, in which the telescope is kept and the observations are usually conducted. Astronomy is taught only during the spring term, and but little interest is manifested in the study by the students, although they are permitted to use the telescope at any time. When the instrument is provided with higher powers it will be equal to any of its size in the State of Michigan and can be made to do some good service. I have already observed five new comets with it since 1875, two having been seen in one night—-May 8, 1877. Among the comets observed were two discovered by Professor SwiFt, of Rochester, N. Y. The great work which I have had at heart has been to arouse an interest in the study of astronomy, as a means of culture, especially among the young, and to increase the small number of votaries in this science. To this end I intend to continue my lectures and articles jn the press, and also to exhibit celestial objects of popular interest, on favorable occasions. Iwill doubtless be able to send you more valuable reports in the future.
Location of observatory: (City) Brooklyn; (County) Kings; (State) New York. I. PERSONNEL: . Director, W. T. GREGG. (¢) Equatorial instruments: Maker, WILLIAM T. GREGG; aperture of objective, 64 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50 to 600. VI. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: As I said last year, my observatory was built to facilitate corrections of objectives, primarily, but I have been prevented from using it at all
thus far by reason of illness. I hope to be able to do something in the future worthy of reporting.

<<<Page: 542>>>

REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. 5AlL
Location of observatory : (City) Brooklyn; (County) King’s; (State) New York.
J. PERSONNEL: Director, G. P. SERVISS.
Il. INSTRUMENTS:
(c) Equatorial instruments: One telescope; maker, JOHN BYRNE, of New York; aperture of objective, 33 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50, 106, 160, 250, and 320.
(i) Miscellaneous : My telescope is mounted equatorially on a tripod stand. The objective is of excellent quality. I can see the companion of « Lyre and both the debilissima in Epsilon Lyre with ease. It also easily separates double stars only 1.”5 apart. Under favorable cireumstances I have seen five of Saturn’s moons. I have no observatory, and my observations are made from lofty windows having a southerly and westerly exposure, and occasionally from the roof of my residence on Brooklyn Heights. In observing Jupiter and Saturn I ordinarily employ powers of 160 and 250, and occasionally 320. For special purposes I have used a power of 480 with good effect.
Ill. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR:
From June, 1878, to September, 1879.
I have devoted most of the time spent with my telescope to viewing the moon and the planets, especially Jupiter and Saturn. I have made drawings of the surface of Jupiter at different times, noting every change in the belts and spots as accurately as possible. In August of this year (1879) and thus far in September I have made careful drawings of the disk of Jupiter and have colored them, seeking to give as near the exact tint as possible to the spots, belts, and shaded regions. The general result of my recent work shows that the northern dark belt is of a coppery hue, verging on a reddish-purple, while the southern belt is gray. The contrast in the color of these two belts has often appeared to me very strikingly. Their outlines are at times broken, and the copper belt is frequently seen split lengthwise. White and dark spots on the central light zone I have observed frequently.
I intend to continue my observations and drawings of Jupiter and other planets. I am especially interested in watching a remarkable elongated spot of a light maroon color (with a trace of rose tint) that lies south of the gray belt, and is about one-fourth of the planet’s diameter in length, one-eighth of its own length broad, and somewhat rounded at the ends. The gray belt opposite this spot seems to grow narrower and bend away from, the spot toward the center of the @isk. All of my drawings show light and dark markings on the central white zone about in the longitude of this great spot.

<<<Page: 543>>>

542 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. é
I have been trying in vain nearly a year to obtain the Harvard Vol. IX, to aid me in photometric work. Hope to get it soon. For that reason, and from other business, my observatory has remained idle this year and does not deserve a place in your notices. I hope to resume work next year; but my eyes need rest, and do not seem to improve in this long astronomical recess.
Yours, truly, HENRY M. PARKHURST.
Location of observatory: (City) Buffalo; (County) Erie; (State) New York.
Longitude from Greenwich, 78° 53/ 26/7.5. Latitude, 42° 54/ 9/’.5.
Authority for latitude and longitude: Regents of University of State of New York. Report for 1862. J. PERSONNEL: Director, HENRY MILLS. II. INSTRUMENTS: (c) Telescope not equatorial; maker, Bardon; aperture of objective, 3 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50 to 250. III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: Observations on sun spots and such other celestial phenomena as come within range of my instrument. IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (1879-80):
I propose to make systematic observations on sun spots and to record the same for future reference.
Location of observatory: (City) Cambridge; (County) Middlesex ; (State) Massachusetts. Name of observatory: The Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College. © Longitude from Washington, — 0% 22™ 415.11, Latitude + 42° 22/ 48/71, Authority for latitude and longitude: American Ephemeris for 1881.
I. PERSONNEL: Director, EDWARD C,. PICKERING. . Assistants, WILLIAM A. RoGERS, A. M.; ARTHUR SEARLE, A. M.; LEONARD WALDO, S. D.; FRANK WALDO, S. B.; Miss R. G. SAUNDERS; WALTER HoxiE; J. F. McCorMAcK; WINSLOW UPTON, A. M.; OLIVER C. WENDELL. About halfa dozen other persons are employed in computations.

<<<Page: 544>>>

(a) Meridian circle: Makers, TROUGHTON & SIMMS (glasses by ALVAN CLARK & Sons); diameter of circles, 36 inches; divided to 5’; each circle read by 4 microscopes to 0.1/.. Aperture of objective, 84 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 84 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 300 to 350 diameters.
(a’‘) East transit circle, by TRoUGHTON & StMMs; diameter of circles, 48 inches; divided to 5’; each circle read by 4 microscopes to 0/.2. Aperture of objective, 44 inches.
(b) Meridian transit instruments : Maker, HERBST, of Pulkowa; aperture, 2? inches; magnifying power, up to 200 diameters.
(b’) Large photometer, mounted in the meridian, for comparing images of stars during transit.
(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, MERZ; aperture of objective, 15 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 100 to 2000.
(c’) West equatorial, by ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture, 54 inches.
(d) Spectroscopes : Three, described in Vol. VIII of the Annals of the Observatory.
(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus ; One ZOLLNER photometer, and several photometers of other kinds.
(f) Chronographs: Two spring governors, by W. BonD & Son; one small barrel chronograph.
(g) Clocks: Mean time; maker, Bonn, 394: sidereal; makers, FRoDSHAM, 1327; BonD, 312.
(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; makers, FRODSHAM, 3451; BOND, 236; thermometric chronometer, FRODSHAM, 3424.
(?) Miscellaneous ; Comet-seeker and other small telescopes and apparatus.
From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879.
(a) Completion of observation of stars to the ninth magnitude, ineluSive, in zone 50° to 55°; completion of observations of bright stars not recently well determined; commencement of observations of absolute places of important stars; observations for clock error, for use of time service (signals sent every two seconds to many points in and near Boston).
(b) Observations for clock error, as above.
(b’) Photometric comparisons of stars visible to the naked eye; the observing list includes about 4,000 stars.
(c) (c’) Photometric observations of satellites of superior planets ; photometric observations of the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites ; commencement of spectroscopic and photometric observations of selected nebule ; observations of comets and asteroids.
IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (1879-80): Continuation of observations now in progress.

<<<Page: 545>>>

1. EH. C. Pickering, annual report, 1878; published in 1879, vol. 1, page 14,
Two volumes of the annals of the observatory are in course of publication.
The financial condition of the observatory has been greatly improved by the completion of a subscription to provide for its current expenses. This will be of important service in the reduction of a large accumulation of observations, the publication of which must otherwise have been long delayed.
A room has been fitted up for the purpose of making accurate measures of distance and comparisons of scales.
Location of observatory: (City) Chicago; (County) Cook; (State) Illinois.
Name of observatory : DEARBORN UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY.
Longitude from Washington, + 0" 42™ 148,26. Latitude, + 41° 50/ 01.0.
Authority for latitude and longitude: American Ephem. and Naut. Almanae.
Director, G. W. HouGH.
(a) Meridian circles: Makers, REPSOLD & Son; diameter of circle, 40 inches; divided to 2’; read by 4 microscopes to 0.1; aperture of objective, 6 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 3 inches.
(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 185 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, positive, 120, 190, 287, 385, 900; negative, 135, 225, 450, 900.
(7) Chronographs: G. W. HoueH; cylinder recording.
(gq) Clocks: Mean time; Makers, Howarp & Co.; GRAHAM escapement, mercury pendulum. Sidereal; Makers, CHARLES GORTNER & Co., London; GRAHAM escapement, mercury pendulum,
(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; Makers, Bonp & Son.
(i) Miscellaneous: Signal mean time clock for transmitting time signals.
From May 18 to ———.
(a) The Dearborn Observatory is not at present in active operation for want of funds. Observations are, however, made by the director as far as his time will permit.

<<<Page: 546>>>

(ec) (¢’) Equatorial: Observations on Tempel’s comet; observations on Swift’s comet; micrometrical measurements of the disk of Jupiter for figure now in progress. Mr. S. W. BuRNHAM has the use of the equatorial for double-star work when it is not otherwise employed. Meridian circle used for time and the observation of stars for extra-meridian observations.
Location of observatory: (Village) Clinton; (County) Oneida; (State) New York. Name of observatory: LitCHFIELD OBSERVATORY, of Hamilton College. Longitude from Washington 0° 6™ 345.65 east. Latitude +43° 3/ 16.5 Authority for latitude and longitude: reports to the regents of the university of the State of New York. J. PERSONNEL: Director, C. H. F. PETERS. No assistants. II. INSTRUMENTS: (b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, WURDEMANN; aperture 24 inches. ai (c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, SPENCER & EATON; aperture of objective, 154 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 80 to 1,600. (¢) Ditto, STEINHEIL, aperture 4 inches; altitude azimuth, SCHRODER, 5 ees aperture. CF) Ch onogy anh + Wm. Bonn & Son. (g) Clocks : : Mean time; makers, Wm. Bonp & Son. (h) Chronometers: Sidereal; haan Wm. Bonn & Son. (i) Miscellaneous: For further seal see catalogue of Hamilton College. III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: (b) Time determination. (¢) (c’) Minor planets, comets, and zones of stars. IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (1880): Continuation of that of preceding year. VI. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
[From January 1, 1879 to October 1, 1879, Dr. PreTEers has discovered 7 asteroids, though he has omitted any notice of them from his report. This makes in all 38 asteroids discovered by him.—n. s. H. |
Location of observatory: (City) Columbia; (County) Boone; (State) issouri. Name of observatory: OBSERVATORY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE TATE OF MISSOURI.
Longitude from Washington, 1" 1™ 6° west.
Latitude 38° 56’ north. 8. Mis. 5435

<<<Page: 547>>>

Authority for latitude and longitude: JOSEPH FICKLIN and THOMAS J. LOWRY.
Director, JOSEPH FICKLIN. Assistant, THOMAS J. LOWRY. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(a) Meridian circles: One; maker, BRUNNER, of Paris; diameter of circle, 105 inches; divided to 5’; read by two microscopes to 3”; aperture, of objective, 251; inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 2); inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 50 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instrument; Maker, HENRY F1rz, of New York; aperture of objective, 441; inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 30 to 240.
(g) Clocks : Mean time; maker, Rraas, of Philadelphia; sidereal; makers, GREGG & Rupp, of New York.
(i) Miscellaneous : The instrumental equipment includes also a sextant, made by E. & G. W. BLunt, of New York. The are is graduated on silver, and reads by a vernier and microscope to 10 seconds. An altitude azimuth instrument, made by E. & G. W. Buunv, of New York. Ithas an aperture of 2$ inches. The circles are 12 inches in diameter, and graduated to 10 minutes. The horizontal circle has four verniers with microscopes, and the vertical circle two; and each reads to 10 seconds. A transit theodolite, made by GREGG & Rupp, of New York.
(a) Our observatory is used chiefly for instructional purposes. My time is so completely occupied by work in the class-room that I have very little time for original work.
The ordinary work of instruction to classes in astronomy, and a re-
determination of our latitude and longitude.
Location of observatory : (City) Columbus ; (County) Franklin ; (State) Ohio. Name of observatory : OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY. I. PERSONNEL: Director, R. W. MCFARLAND.
VI. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: I have no regular observatory yet, but have the private use of two telescopes, with which, in a small way, I am trying to get the authorities moved to do something worth reporting, which I cannot now do.
Location of observatory: (City) Elizabeth; (County) Union; (State) New Jersey. Name of abservatory: None.

<<<Page: 548>>>

Longitude from Washington, 2° 50! 33” east. Latitude, 40° 40/ 19” north. Authority for latitude and longitude: United States Coast Survey.
I. PERSONNEL: Director, CHARLES W. PLYER.
II. INSTRUMENTS: (b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, JOHN Buiss & Sons, New York; aperture, 1 inch; magnifying power, 10 diameters. (c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, Henry G. Frvz; aperture of objeetive, 64 inches. (c’) Nine eye-pieces, from 50 to 630. III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: (c) (ce) None, owing to ill-health, except an occasional search for comets. IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (187980): Drawings of the surface of Mars, which will be a continuation of my work in 1877.
Location of observatory: (City) Fordham; (County) New York; (State) New York.
Private observatory.
Longitude from Washington, 0° 12™ 408.47 east. Latitude, 40° 52/ 31/.3.
Latitude and longitude deduced from Coast Survey map of 1863 and American Ephemeris 1879, assuming the latitude and longitude of New York, given in the Ephemeris, to be the latitude and longitude of the City Hall.
Director, WILLIAM MEIKLEHAM. No assistants. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, JouN Byrne, of New York; aperture of objective, 4,3, inches; focal distance, 65 inches; magnifying | powers of eye-pieces, 20, 50, 45, 60, 80, 150, 250, 300, 350, and 450; also an amplifier which doubles each of these powers when used. Attached to the telescope is a finder of 14 inches aperture, magnifying 20 diameters. Right ascension circle divided to read to 4 seconds of time; declination circle divided to read to 1/ of are. Both circles divided on silver and read by microscopes attached thereto. Driving-clock.
(d) Speciroscopes: One.
(g) Clocks: Mean time; Maker, Sera Tuomas, Sons & Co.
— (@) Miscellaneous ; Vilar micrometer; divided on silver to measure ,3,/ of are in distance, and 6/ in position, with suitable eye-pieces and illuminatin g apparatus.

<<<Page: 549>>>

From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879.
(c) Observations of the magnitudes and colors of double stars, lunar peaks and eraters, solar spots and facule, belts of Jupiter, rings of Saturn. In solar observations I find it advantageous generally tu reduce the aperature of my telescope to 3,5, inches, and use an eye-piece magnifying 80 diameters, with a right-angle prism instead of a colored glass screen.
(t) Measurements of position and distances of components of double stars; heights of lunar peaks by the lengths of their shadows; width of lunar craters; sizes of solar spots.
IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (1879-’80): A continuation of the above.
Location of observatory: (City) near Fort Dodge; (County) Webster; (State) Lowa. Longitude from Washington, 1. 8™.5 west. Latitude, 42° 30/ north. Authority for latitude and longitude, F. Huss.
I. PERSONNEL: Director, F. HESS. Assistant, Mrs. P. B. H&ss.
(a) Aperture of objective, 28 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 23 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 50 diameters. :
(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, J. BRown & Son, New York; aperture, 1 inch; magnifying power, 105 diameters, with horizontal and vertical circle, each reading to 1.
(g) Clocks: Mean time; maker, G. M. WHEELER, Elgin, III.
(2) Miscellaneous: One TROUGHTON sextant and artificial horizon.
From September 15, 1878, to September 15, 1879.
(a) Observations of sun-spots, occultations, eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites, and searching for intra-Mercurial planets.
(b) (b’) Observing the variations of the magnetic needle, altitudes and azimuths, time, latitude and longitude, and approximately locating sunspots.
(i) Observing altitudes, time, latitude and longitude of various places.
Continuation of previous work and the establishment of an observatory on Mount Zapato, Colorado, located 5.9 miles S. 765 E. (M. B.) from

<<<Page: 550>>>

N. G. ADEP’S house at Zapato, and rising to an altitude of 6,120 feet above said house, the approximate elevation of which above sea-level is 8,009 feet, provided a valid title can be obtained by purchase or otherwise to sections 13 and 14, township 28 north, of range 73 west, of the sixth principal meridian, as yet unsurveyed and unoccupied public land comprising this mountain, the most accessible of the higher peaks of the Sierra Blanco. F V. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
April 25, 1879, I found BRORSEN’s comet in the vicinity of a star supposed to be B. A. C. 1594, coming within the same field of view of instrument (a), in which the comet was seen with a magnifying power of 50. The comet was observed each following night until April 30, when a star, supposed to be B. A. C. 1849, was within the same field of view with the comet. It was looked for again all night of May 5, but could not be found again.
During a few hours in the nights of July 18 and August 10, on the San Juan, below Pagosa Springs, Colorado, I saw many very brilliant meteors. Monthly reports of sun-spots and other miscellaneous observations have been made to the Chief Signal Officer of the Army.
Location of observatory: (City) Glasgow; (County) Howard; (State) Missouri.
Name of observatory: MORRISON OBSERVATORY.
Longitude from Washington, 15 3" 68.8 W. Latitude, 39° 16/ 16.75 N.
Authority for latitude and longitude: Longitude by time signals from the Naval Observatory on five successive days; latitude from a series of observations on cireumpolar stars made on meridian circle.
J. PERSONNEL: Director, CARR W. PRITCHETT. Assistant, C. W. PRITCHETT, JR. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(a) Meridian circles; makers, TRouGHTON & Simms, London; diameter of circles, 24 inches; divided to 5’; read by 8 microscopes to 1”; aperture of objective, 6 inches; for observations of the Sun, aperture employed, 4 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 200 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 12} inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50 to 1,000.
(f) Chronographs: by ALVAN CLARK & Sons, conical pendulum.
(g) Clocks: Sidereal, maker, CHARLES FRODSHAM, No. 1369.
(h) Chronometers: Sidereal, makers, T. 8S. & J.D. NnGus, break cireuit No. 1590.
(t) Miscellaneous : Small altazimuth, CASELLA, London; barometer and
thermometer. 2

<<<Page: 551>>>

(from September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879.)
(a) Meridian circle has only been used tor time observations.
1. Third series of observations on satellites of Saturn.
2. Observations of satellites of Jupiter.
3. Measures of position, angle, and distance of double and multiple stars.
4. In progress, an extensive series of observations on the Red Spot on Jupiter, first seen July 9, 1878. Transit of center, for redetermination of axial rotation.
5. A few occultations of stars by the Moon.
(a) It is expected that the meridian circle will be put to systematic use during the ensuing year.
(c) The observations on the equatorial will be divided between the fixed stars and planets as the relative importance of the work, for the time being, may demand.
We have no fund for defraying expenses of publications. A few papers have been published in the “Astronomische Nachrichten” and the “Observatory,” London. There exists here quite a large number of observations which might be of use if published.
Location of observatory: (City) Hanover; (County) Grafton; (State) New Hampshire. Name of observatory : SHATTUCK OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington, 19" 38.56 east. Latitude, 43° 42/ 15”.2 north. Authority for latitude and longitude: Prof. C. A. Young.
1, PERSONNEL: Director, CHARLES F. EMERSON. Assistants: 1. CHARLES D. LAMB, ) Room in the observatory, and have charge of the meterologi2. DAviD R. REED, cal observations. 3. GEORGE O. MITCHELL. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(a) Meridian circles: makers, TRouGHTON & Simms; diameter of circle, 30 inches; divided to 5’; read by reading microscopes to 1’, and micrometers to single seconds; aperture of objective, 4 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 120 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments ; Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 9.25 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 100 to 1,200, 20 in number.

<<<Page: 552>>>

(d) Spectroscopes: Large 9 prism CLARK spectroscope ; seven prism, double acting (equivalent to 13 prisms), fitting equatorial mentioned above.
(f) Chronographs : Bonnd’s Spring Governor.
(g) Clocks: Mean time; makers, UrzscHNEIDER & FRAUENHOFER, connected with chronograph; Sidereal, makers, UTZSCHNEIDER & MAuLeEr, of Munich, connected with chronograph.
(i) Miscellaneous; Comet seeker, aperture 3.6 inches, mounted on large tripod; small portable telescope, aperture 3 inches; zenith sector, loaned by Coast Survey, aperture 4 inches; full set of common meteorological apparatus, including a recording barometer; sextant by HArpy, of London.
(a) For time and latitude.
(d) Class illustration on reversal of lines, and for prominences.
(i) Meteorological observations 5 times per day ; sun spot observations sincve September 1, 1879.
IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR: (1880.) Similar work, with special attention to sun spots, prominence, &c., and spectroscopic observations.
Location of observatory : Hastings; (County) Westchester; (State) New York. Name of observatory : Henry Draper’s Observatory, Longitude from Greenwich, 73° 52’ 25” west. Latitude, 40° 59/ 25”, Authority for latitude and longitude: United States Coast Survey.
Director, Dr. H. DRAPER. Assistant, Mrs. DRAPER. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, STACKPOLE BROs.; aperture, 2 inches; magnifying power, 25 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments: 28-inch silvered glass reflector by H. DRAPER; 12-inch achromatic by ALVAN CLARK.
(d) Spectroscopes: Grating spectroscope for solar work by ALVAN CLARK; stellar spectroscope by BROWNING; stellar photographic spectroscope by H. DRAPER; large spectroscope for research on oxygen in the Sun.
(f) Chronograph: by H. DRAPER.
(h) Chronometers: Mean time, makers, Negus Broruers ; sidereal, makers, NEGUS BROTHERS, break circuit.
(i) Miscellaneous: Silvered glass altazimuth 155 inches aperture;

<<<Page: 553>>>

petroleum engine; gramme machine; 17-inch induction coil; photographic apparatus. III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: (a) The main work has been photography of the spectra of stars and the planets especially, and « Lyra, Arcturus, Jupiter, and the Moon. The research on the presence of oxygen in the Sun has been continued.
IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR: (1879~’80.) Continuation of the above.
The results of the researches in this observatory have been printed in the American Journal of Science, in the monthly notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, the Comptes Rendus of the French Academy of Science, and the Journal of the Italian Spectroscopists.
Location of observatory: (City) Haverford ; (County) Montgomery ; (State) Pennsylvania. Name of observatory : HAVERFORD COLLEGE. Longitude from Washington, ———. Latitude, 40° 0/ 36.5,
I. PERSONNEL: Director, ISAAC SHARPLESS. Assistants: 1. WILLIAM F. PERRY, 2. JOSIAH P. EDWARDS.
(a) Meridian circles : 2; diameter of circles, 26 inches ; divided to —’; read by 4 microscopes to 2’; aperture of objective, 4 inches.
(b) Meridian transit instruments : Aperture, 1§ inches.
(c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, F1vzZ; aperture of objective, 84 inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 60 to 900.
(f) Chronographs : BOND’s magnetic.
(g) Clocks : Mean time; maker, WILLIAM E. HARPER, Philadelphia ; 1 sidereal; makers, no name.
Prof. SAMUEL ALSOP, the previous director of the observatory, has been absent from duty during the past year on account of ill health.
Location of observatory : (City) lowa City; (County) Johnson; (State) Towa. Name of observatory : C. W. Trish’s Private Observatory. Longitude from Washington, 57™ 52°, Latitude. 41° 39/58. Authority for latitude aud longitude: Observations by self during
the past eleven years.

<<<Page: 554>>>

judy | iba | Oo
Director, C. W. TRISH. Assistants; 1. Mrs. C. W. IRISH, Miss Lizzre IRISH, . Miss RutH IRISH, 4, Dr. C. M. Hopsy. II. INSTRUMENTS: (b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, made by self; aperture, 1 inch; magnifying power, 11 diameters. (c) Lquatorial instruments: Makers, CHEVALIER, Paris; aperture of objective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 25 to 300. (f) Chronographs ; A Morse register. (y) Clocks: Mean time; makers, German make, beats 3? seconds.
oo bo
IiI. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: (a) Have done nothing since the transit of Mercury, May, 1878.
(Former) location of observatory ; (City) Jackson; (County) Jackson ; (State) Michigan. Longitude from Washington, west 29™ 298, 74. Latitude, 42° 14! 25/.21. Authority for latitude and longitude: Monument set by Lake Survey.
I. PERSONNEL: Director, O. MULVEY. Il. INSTRUMENTS: (c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, 8S. & B. SoLomons, London; aperture of objective, 3 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 30 to 205. (h) Chronometers: Mean time; makers, FINER & NOWLAND, London. III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR:
(a.) Telescope dismounted for past year. Will remount at Wichita, Kans.
Having removed to Wichita, Kans., please address me at this place in future.
Location of observatory: (City) Lawrence; (County) Douglas; (State) Kansas. Name of observatory: Connected with Kansas State University. Longitude from Washington, 1® 12™ 47°, 9. Latitude 38° 57! 15”. Authority for latitude and longitude: FRED. W. BARDWELL, late
Professor of Astronomy, K. S. U

<<<Page: 555>>>

I. PERSONNEL: Director, H. 8. 8. Surry. II. INSTRUMENTS: (b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, STACKPOLE BROS.; aperture, 24 inches ; (g) Clocks : Mean time; makers, E. Howard & Co., Boston (medium) ; Sidereal; makers, BROCKBANKS, London (old). (h) Chronometers: Sidereal; makers, T. 8S. & J. D. NeGus, New York (good). (i) Miscellaneous : Sextant, GAMBEY. III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: (b) (b’) Time. IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (1880): Not settled.
Observatory torn down in April. Small temporary observatory in process of construction.
Location of observatory : (City) Madison; (County) Jefferson; (State) Indiana. Name of observatory : FAIRMOUNT OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington, 0" 33™ 34° +. I. PERSONNEL :
Director, ISRAEL FOWLER. Assistant, My son. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, I. FOWLER; aperture of objective, 6 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 90, 120, 300.
(g) Clocks ; Mean time; maker, I. Fow ier.
(t) Miscellaneous ; My yard is my observatory; location, Fairmount, near the City of Madison, Jefferson County, State of Indiana. I and my son are the observers. Instruments: 1. A 6-inch metal reflector, focal length 90 inches, mounted equatorially with hour and declination circles, also tangent screw for slow motion. 2. A portable silvered glass reflector 50 inches focal length, with eyepieces varying from 40 to 300 diameters. 3. A mean-time clock beats seconds, used as a regulator in my watch shop, all made by myself. I commenced my observations in — 1869; scarcely a favorable night has passed without finding me at the © telescope, but I have kept no record, so it can be of no service to science.
I propose the eoming year to keep a record of all observations made ; — so if I should awkwardly stumble upon something of interest I will communicate the same. My observations will be confined to sun spots, a search for Vulcan, and observing Jupiter and Saturn.

<<<Page: 556>>>

Location of observatory : Mount Lookout; (County) Hamilton; (State) Ohio.
Name of observatory: CINCINNATI OBSERVATORY.
Longitude from Washington, 29™ 29,42 W. Latitude, 39° 8’ 35/”.5. Authority for latitude and longitude: American Ephemeris for 1880, I. PERSONNEL:
Director, ORMOND STONE.
Assistant, HERBERT A. HOWE.
Student, H. V. HGBERY.
Il. INSTRUMENTS:
(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers BUFF and BERGER; aperture, 3 inches; magnifying power, 100 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments; Makers, UtZSCHNEIDER and FRAUENHOFER; finished by Merz & MAHLER; object-glass refigured by ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 114 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 90 to 1,400.
(c’) ALVAN CLARK & Sons; aperture, 4 inches ; magnifying powers, 15 to 250.
(f) Chronographs: BOND.
(g) Clocks: 2 mean time; makers, ROBERT MOLYNEUX, JAS. RITCHIE & Son.
(h) Chronometers, Sidereal, 1; makers, WM. Bond & Son.
(i) Miscellaneous: Magnetic theodolite ; maker, GAMBEY. Sextant; makers, SrACKPOLE & BROTHER. Inclinometer, time-ball, telegraphic apparatus, ete.
From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879.
(b) Determination of time and latitude.
(c) 2053 sets of double-star measurements.
(c and ¢c’) Examination of surface of Sun on 180 days. Spots seen on 40. (c’) was used with one inch aperture until the middle of February, 1879. Since that (c) most of the time with an aperture of 5 inches.
IV. WorK PROPOSED FOR, THE COMING YEAR (1879-80):
Continuation of observations of double stars and observations of sun spots with (c); Durchmusterung south of 23° south declination with (e); determination of time with (0).
Telegraphic time signals are sent to the city and a ball dropped from
a staff at the observatory each day at noon.
Location of observatory : (City) Nashville; (County) Davidson ; (State) Tennessee,

<<<Page: 557>>>

Longitude from Washington, 38™, 56°. Latitude, + 56° 10/ OL”. Authority for latitude and longitude: Mr. GEORGE DEAN, United States Coast Survey. I. Director, E. E. BARNARD.
If. INSTRUMENTS:
(c) Equatorial instruments : Maker, JOHN BYRNE, New York; aperture of objective, 5 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 52, 78, 85, 104, 173, 260, 550,520. This instrument has simple equatorial mounting moved by hasp joint and handle (on tripod stand).
(7) Miscellaneous: Have also a small achromatic telescope with objective 24 inches in diameter, simple vertical and horizontal mounting. Iuse a good silver watch and get my time from Western Union Telegraph office by noon signal from Washington.
(ec) (c’) Jupiter, changes in belts, ete.
I propose to use what time I can spare observing further the changes on Jupiter; and particularly the lunar crater Plato. Also other objects which come under my notice and time.
The spare time from my work has been very little, and most of that has been occupied in the study of mathematics. What little time I have had for observing has been employed in the observation of the lunar crater Plato and the changes on the surface of the planet Jupiter; making drawings of his belts, ete. Since last season a large oblong red spot or short belt, rather,has appeared. I have been watching this to detect any changes that may occur init. I have made drawings at every favorable opportunity of this remarkable spot, but I have so far been unable to detect any positive change in it, but there seems to be change going on in some of the belts, especially in the belt immediately above the red spot and nearer the equator of the planet. This seems to be changing in form and color. When I first noticed this belt it was of a dusky grayish tint; then, afterwards, of a beautiful bluish color; this bluish tint was quite marked. The northern of the equatorial belts is very ruddy, but heretofore has been not near so red as the large red spot, but on the night of the 14th of September it seemed to be fully as ruddy as the spot. My lack of proper instrumental equipment has kept me from making any very accurate observations. I would further state in regard to the changes of Jupiter that on the above-mentioned night, at 9» 30", there were one or two little round spots on the dise near the South Pole; they appeared about the size of one of the satellites (the 3rd) which had come on the dise half hour or so before; they were faint and not seen readily. I had not noticed these spots before.

<<<Page: 558>>>

Location of observatory : (City) New Haven; (County) New Haven; (State) Connecticut.
Name of observatory: The SHEFFIELD SCIENTIFIC SCHOOL OF YALE COLLEGE.
: Longitude from Washington, 0° 16" 308.0 E. Se gas Latitude, 41° 18/ 36.5 N.
Authority for latitude and longitude: Latitude from observations with
zenith telescope by C. S. L. Longitude, Coast Survey. The Coast
Survey latitude is 41° 18’ 40/.67.
Director, C. S. LYMAN. Assistant, WILLIAM BEEBE.
(a) Meridian circles: Makers, ERTEL & Sons, 1845. Altered by WM. J. YOUNG, 1855, and regraduated 1876; diameter of circles, 40 inches ; divided to 2’; read by six microscopes to 1”; aperture of objective, 3.8 inches ; for observations of the Sun, aperture employed, 1.7 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 190 diameters; focal length, 58.2 inches.
(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, one by C. 8. L., of 36-inch focal length; aperture, 2.6 inches; magnifying power, 185 diameters. Circle, 12 inches, reading to 10’’ by verniers. It has declination micrometer and fine level, for use as zenith telescope, made in 1852-53.
(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 9 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 40, 80, 140, 200, 280, 450, 620.
(c’) Portable 43-inch refractor by Messrs. CLARK & SONS.
(d) Spectroscopes: By A. CLARK & Sons, of 7 prisms twice traversed.
(f) Chronographs : One just finished by A. CLARK & Sons.
(g) Clocks : Sidereal; makers, 1 by APPLETON, London, and 1 by E. Howarp & Sons, Boston.
(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; maker, POOLE, improved by NrGus.
(i) Miscellaneous: 1 bi-filar position micrometer by DOLLOND; 1 multiple ring micrometer (8 rings); 1 patent sextant by Pistor & MArTINS; 1 patent reflecting circle by PistoR & MArtins. Yale College has also a 10-foot refractor of 5-inch aperture by DOLLOND, and a 5-foot transit instrument of 4-inch aperture by TROUGHTON & Sms. The former is in charge of Professor Loomis, the latter not mounted.
IIL. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR (from September, 1878, to September, 1879) : (b) (b’) Time observations for city and chronometers of the port. Practice of students for time, latitude, longitude, ete. (c) (c’) Observations of BRORSEN’S and SWIFT’s comets, ete.

<<<Page: 559>>>

(dy Or oe)
IV. WorkK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (September, 1879, to September, 1880) : Of Mars at opposition for parallax, comets, and occultations, &e.; meridian circle, for redetermination of latitude, &c.; the work of instruction leaves but limited opportunity for other work.
Location of observatory: (City) Newington; (County) Hartford; (State) Connecticut. Name of observatory: PRIVATE OBSERVATORY of D. W. EDGECOMB. Longitude from Washington, 5° 21’ 30” E. Latitude, 41° 44’ 0”, : Authority for latitude and longitude: Difference from Hartford Statehouse, Coast Survey. I. PERSONNEL : Director, D. W. Edgecomb. Assistants, None.
Il. INSTRUMENTS:
(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, A. CLARK & Sons; aperture of objective, 9.4 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, various up to 2,000. (See general description.)
(g) Clocks: Mean time; Swiss regulator, seconds.
This observatory consists of a small frame building, with dome 12 feet 6 inches diameter, upon the grounds of the owner, covering an equatorial telescope. The latter rests upon a granite pedestal, weighing about 1,500 pounds. The mounting is by YouNG, of Philadelphia, and is of the best workmanship. The declination circle is 13 inches in diameter, reading by verniers to 10 seconds of are. The hour circle is 10 inches diameter, reading by verniers to 4 seconds of time. The graduations are upon silver. The object-glass, tube, and finder are by A. CLARK & Sons. The aperture of the object-glass is 9.4 inches, with a focal length of 121 inches, and is without doubt the finest specimen of the skill of Mr. ALVAN CLARK. Under the most rigid tests, its figure is found to approach very closely to absolute perfection. It is shown also by the vision it gives of the closest double stars and the faintest companions to bright stars hitherto discovered. Among the former, 7? Andromede, A Cassiopex, and 4 Coron in its present position (September, 1579) may be mentioned, and of the latter class, the companions to 7 Lyre, ¢ Aquilla, «and p Hydre, the star closely following the attendant to Regulus, and under very favorable circumstances the 2’ companion to e Coronz. The instrument has been used for general observations of the stars, moon, and planets, other occupations preventing the owner from carrying on at present any more regular work.

<<<Page: 560>>>

Location of observatory: (City) New York; (County) New York; (State) New York. Name of observatory: Mr. RUTHERFURD’S PRIVATE OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington, east 3° 3/ 52/.05. Latitude north, 40° 43/ 48.53 + 31. Authority for latitude and longitude: United States coast surveying party (1859), with zenith telescope upon 24 pairs of stars, and telegraphic communication with Washington and Cambridge.
Director, L. M. RUTHERFURD. Assistant, D. C. CHAPMAN.
(b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, STACKPOLE; aperture, 3 inches.
Only used for time.
(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Messrs. RUTHERFURD & FITz, aperture of objective, 13 inches.
(c’) The telescope has been employed mostly in photographing the sun, moon, and groups of stars.
(f) Chronographs: MoRrsk.
(g) Clocks: Sidereal; Maker, DENT.
Location of observatory: (City) Northfield; (County) Rice; (State) Minnesota.
Name of observatory : OBSERVATORY of CARLETON COLLEGE. Longitude from Washington, 95° 9/ 14” approximately. Latitude 44° 27/ 41” approximately.
Longitude: Occultation of Jupiter’s satellites. We hope soon to be
determined telegraphically.
Authority for latitude and longitude: Observations with telescope taking a great number of measures of pairs of stars with micrometer according to Coast Survey practice.
J. PERSONNEL: Acting Director, WILLIAM W, PAYNE. Assistants: 1. A. C. WILSON. a Sa ade Wand 85 ao II. INSTRUMENTS:
(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, FautH & Co., Washington; aperture, 3 inches; magnifying power, 60, 70, and 80 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, A. CLARK & Sons, Cambridgeport, Mass.; aperture of objective, 84 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, besides a series of micrometer powers.
(c’) Portable equatorial: Makers, JoHN BYRNE, New York; objective, 4.3 inches clear aperture.

<<<Page: 561>>>

(f) Chronograph: An electro-magnetic instrument by A. CLARK & SONS.
(g) Clocks: 1 mean time; makers, E. HOwARD & Co., Boston; 1 sidereal; makers, HE. HOwARD & Co., Boston.
(h) Chronometers: 1 sidereal; makers, W. Bond & Son, Boston.
(t) Miscellaneous: A partial outfit of metereological instruments.
Instruments just received. Noregular work in observatory yet undertaken, except the completion of a trial orbit for comet I of 1879.
1. A series of double-star measures, to determine personal equation.
2. Observations on comets IL and ILI, for 1879.
3. Observations of the planet Jupiter, respecting the color of dise.
4. Miscellaneous work, to aid State Astronomical Society ; there being no other instrument equal to our equatorial in the State.
One year ago our clocks were set and regulated; since that time we have had control of the time in this entire State, and parts also of Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, Dakota, and Missouri. When full’connections are made, our noonday signal is directly distributed over 1,285 miles of wire, thereby supplying each telegraphic station in all this wide area with the daily time of our meridian. All the railroads (LI believe) and the principal cities adopt our time.
The main building of the new observatory is now completed, and is 20 feet square and 32 feet high. There are two wings, each 12 by 15 feet and 9 feet high, with flat roof. The east wing is for the astronomical library and the observer’s study. The west wing is used for the transit room only. On the first floor of the main building is the instrument case, table for chronograph, pier for astronomical clocks, and cireular stair-— way leading to the equatorial room in the dome.
The central equatorial pier starts 94 feet below the ground, has a footing of large flat stone, is built circular, with a diameter 8 feet, and is laid of solid masonry in cement to a height of 5 feet above the ground. From the footing it is curbed with dry stone way to the surface of the ground, that it may stand independent. Above it is built of brick in circular form to the upper surface of the second floor, and capped with a stone 34 feet in diameter and 8 inches thick. The entire height of the pier is 26 feet. The pier for the transit instrument is made in a similar manner, except that it is rectangular in shape.
The second story of the building is devoted to the equatorial room,

<<<Page: 562>>>

REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES, 561 7 which is circular, and 16 feet in diameter inside. It is also a little more than 16 feet from the floor to the highest point of the dome. The dome is a hemisphere, and rests on twelve sheaved rollers, and is revolved by machinery at the pieasure of the observer.
The transit is already received. It was made by Messrs. Fauth & Co., of Washington, at a catalogue price of $900. Its telescope has 3 inches clear aperture and 34 feet focal length. It has a striding level reading to seconds of are, a 6-inch setting circle with level alidade on axis divided on silver and reading to thirty seconds, glass micrometer instead of spider lines, illumination on the new plan through the axis with side reflector, so as not to interfere with the object rays. The clamp is of the improved Davidson form. One of the Y’s can be moved in azimuth and the other in altitude. The transit is also provided with a neat and convenient reviewing apparatus that will add much to facility in work. Before the instrument was shipped from Washington it was tested by Professor Hilgard, one of the leading officers of the Coast Survey, who acted as chairman of the committee of judges on astronomical instruments at the late Centennial Exposition. He pronouyees the transit excellent in design and finish.
The observatory will be provided with two clocks, a siderealand a mean time, costing about $500 each. The former is already in place and nearly regulated. The latter is expected daily.
A 4-inch equatorial portable instrument has been ordered, at a cost of about $400. Correspondence is now being had respecting the purchase and making of a large 83-inch equatorial instrument. Itis to be mounted in the best style, and to be provided with a driving clock. It cannot be completed in less than six months, and therefore may not be received until late this fall. It is, however, hoped that it may be secured and set ready for use this coming winter. Its cost will not vary much from $5,000.
Few of those who have visited the observatory of Carleton College, in our city, have definite knowledge of the system of daily time signals which are given from it. Very little has been written or published respecting the details of regulating the time by astronomical observations, or of the noon-day distribution of it over the vast area of portions of six different contiguous States.
It is not our purpose now to describe either branch of this practical or useful work to which the instruments of the observatory have been mainly devoted for the five months since it was erected, but rather to mention a few facts respecting the time signals that have been noticed by friends of the institution who have asked for a brief statement of them for publication.
The observatory is connected with the main line of the Northwestern Telegraph Company, and hence may use, at pleasure, either the commer-
cial or the railroad line for communication with any distant points. By S. Mis. 54 36

<<<Page: 563>>>

courtesy of the officers of the telegraph company our branch line was erected and a complete set of instruments supplied for the observatory ofiice. , .
The mean-time regulator of the observatory, by great care, is kept accurately in true time. To be assured of this frequent time star-observations are taken by which the error and rate of the sidereal regulator are known. The mean-time is deduced from this, and any needed correction of the mean-time clock is made by an ingenious magnetic attachment which is controlled by an electric current at the pleasure of the person in charge.
Daily, at three minutes before noon, the mean-time clock, which is provided with an electrical attachment, is connected with the telegraph lines of the Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint Paul Railroad, and from this line to the Saint Paul and Sioux City Railroad, and nearly all others in the State and some out of it. The clock is so constructed that it will give its own signal so as to be understood at the most distant points where line-connections are made. As an example of the facility and extent of the daily time signals which the observatory regulator furishes, we will quote from a letter recently received from our friend, W. H. Drake, of Saint Paul, train-dispatcher of the Saint Paul and Sioux Railroad :
Monday, 17th, your clock beat time for 1,285 miles of line wire through (near as I can count it) 157 instruments. Where the Milwaukee and Saint Paul line via Mason City crosses our line at Sheldon, Iowa, our instruments are on the same table. The stroke of the clock comes to each of them alike. Monday, Kansas City was the terminus. The stroke sounded in Minnesota, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Missouri. When I can arrange with the Union Pacific for some fair day we will try to compare time with the Pacific coast. They have been ready twice, but did not give sufficient time to arrange with you.
This single incident will serve to show the wide sphere of usefulness and of influence which the college has and may hold if it can carry out plans of work already well begun.”—(hice County Journal.)
Location of observatory : (Near) Oxford; (County) Lafayette; (State) Mississippi. Name of observatory: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI. Longitude from Washington, W. 0® 49" 55%.03. Latitude N. 34° 22! 12/.64. Authority for latitude and longitude: R. B. FULTON.
I. PERSONNEL : Director, R. B. FULTON. Il. INSTRUMENTS: (a) Altitude-azimuth : Makers, LEREBOURS & SECRETAN; diameter of circles, 10 inches ; divided to 10’; read by 4 microscopes to 10’; aperture of objective, 14 inches.

<<<Page: 564>>>

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, B. Puxk & SONS; aperture, 24 inches. ; -
(c) Equatorial instriments: Maker, MERZ, of Munich; aperture of objective, 43 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 96 to 312 diameters. (ad) Spectroscopes : 1 KircHHorr’s 4-prism table spectroscope.
(g) Clocks: 1 mean time ; makers, RIrcHie & Sons, Boston.
(h) Chronometerg: 1 sidereal; makers, WM. BOND & Son, Boston.
III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: From January 1, 1878 to July 1, 1879. (a) Determination of latitude. (b) Determination of local time. (c) Transit of Mercury, May, 1878. (h) Local time and transit of Mercury.
Transit of Mercury duly observed and report transmitted to Naval Observatory and published in Appendix II to Washington Observations for 1876.
Location of observatory: (City) Phelps; (County) Ontario; (State) New York.
Name of observatory : RED HOUSE OBSERVATORY. (Private.) Longitude from Washington: Recent surveys make it very close to the
Washington meridian. Latitude, 42° 58’.
Director, WM. Ropr. BROOKS. Assistant, Mrs. MARY E. BROOKS.
(1) Miscellaneous: Instruments used are a 2-inch refractor, 356 inches focal length, mounted as altitude-azimuth; magnifying powers 30, 45, — 100 diameters ; objective imported ; mounted by the observer. A 5-inch aperture silver-on-glass Newtonian reflector, 50 inches focal length, altitude-azimuth mounting; magnifying powers, 40, 60, 140 diameters ; made by the observer.
From September 1, 1878, to September 1, 1879.
My observations have been mainly of sun-spots, planetary phenomena, and comet-seeking, using both instruments, but chiefly the reflector for sun-spots and comet-seeking. Have made several observations of SWIFT’s comet (No. 1 of 1879); PALISA’s (No. 2); and HArtwiae’s (No. 3) has been seen by glimpses.

<<<Page: 565>>>

A continuation of the work of the past year is intended for the coming year, especially that of sun-spots with the 5-inch reflector, and watching for the transits of inter-mercurial planets, and also comet-seeking and locating new nebulae. To the better fitting of myself for comet-seeking I propose to construct, the coming winter, a new reflector of 10 or 12 inches aperture and short focal length. :
Several descriptive articles of the new comets of SwirT and PALISA, planetary phenomena, and sun-spots, in the daily press (principally Rochester, N. Y., Democrat and Chronicle), the Phelps Citizen (weekly), and the Scientific American.
Last September, while observing Mercury one morning at the time of its conjunction with Venus, I observed a dark semicircular notch out of the illuminated portion of Mercury, near the middle of the terminator, report of which was sent to the Naval Observatory. It occurred to me as having a connection with the bright spot seen on Mercury at the time of its last transit (seen independently by myself as well as many others), and as confirming PRocTOR’s notion of a hole through Mercury.
Location of observatory: (City) Providence; (County) Providence; (State) Rhode Island.
Name of observatory: SEAGRAVE OBSERVATORY.
Longitude from Washington, E. 0° 22™ 345.51. Latitude, 41° 49/ 46”.4, Authority for latitude and longitude: United States Coast Survey and ourselves. I. OBSERVERS: FF. EH. SEAGRAVE and LEONARD WALDO. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 8 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 1, 122; 2, 245; 3, 367; 4, 489; 5, 611.
(d) Spectroscopes: 1 spectroscope having a system of four whole and two half prisms of 60° flint glass, which gives a dispersive power of ten prisms, by reflection.
(g) Clocks: 1 sidereal.
(h) Chronometers: 1 sidereal; maker, Victor KULLBERG, London.
Ii. GBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR:
From August 1, 1878, to August 1, 1879.
(a) Observations of 0 Cassiope to investigate its large proper motion, and if possible to determine its parallax.
(c) (c’) Observations of the satellites of Saturn.

<<<Page: 566>>>

(d) Observations of a few double stars discovered by S. W. BurnHAM, Esq., of Chicago.
Location of observatory : (City) Rochester; (County) Monroe ; (State) New York. Name of observatory : “* WARNER OBSERVATORY.” Longitude from Greenwich, 77° 51’. Latitude, 43° 8/ 17”. Authority for latitade and longitude: Signal Service officer.
I. PERSONNEL: Director, LEWIS SwIFT. II. INSTRUMENTS:
(ce) Equatorial instruments : Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS (constructing) aperture of objective, 16 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, from 45 to 2,600.
(c') Altitude azimuth 4$ inches, by F1rz; powers from 25 to 432.
(c’) Almost exclusively in charting nebule and searching for comets. Comets I (SwiFrt’s), II (PALISA’s), and III (HARTWIG’s) were severally observed. Several nebulz heretofore overlooked have been found and recorded. The * brick-red” spot on Jupiter and changes in the color of his belts have been observed.
With 16-inch equatorial, when mounted (about July 1), discovering, observing, and cataloguing nebulz on moonless nights, and on doublestar work when moon interferes with nebular work. The solar disk will receive a share of my attention with a view to detect the transits of intramercurial planets. With 45-inch, comet-seeking as heretofore.
During the year I have discovered one new comet (Comet I, 1879), viz: on the morning of June 17, civil time, with elements unlike any heretofore recorded. At the time of discovery I suspected its cometary character, but scon clouding up I was unable to decide it until the morning of the 21st. Immediate notification was given to Professor Baird, who caused its discovery and its position to be cabled to Europe. The customary notifications were also given to astronomers in this country. Tt was a faint comet during the whole period of its visibility. I several times lost and recovered it, and by determined effort was able to observe it as late as September 17-18, after which I was unable to follow it.
Location of observatory: (City) Saint-Louis; (County) Saint Louis; (State) Missouri. 3

<<<Page: 567>>>

Name of observatory: WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY.Longitude from Washington, W. 0° 52™ 375.02. Latitude, N. 38° 38/ 3/7.64. Authority for latitude and longitude: A pier about 150 feet away from the observatory pier was located by HARKNESS and ErMBECK (1870). A survey was made by me from that pier to the new one.
I. PERSONNEL: Director, J. K. REES. Assistant, EH. A. ENGLER.
(b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, WURDEMANN; aperture, 2.65 inches; magnifying power, 90 diameters, with micrometer attachment.
(c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, H. Firz, of New York City; aperture of objective, 64 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 76, 125, 190, 305, and 456 diameters.
(c') Finder: 2;%> inches aperture; magnifying power, 23 diameters.
(d) Spectroscopes: One single prism BROWNING spectroscope.
(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus: Filar position, micrometer attached; clock work for moving telescope.
(g) Clocks: Mean time; common tower clock.
(hy Chronometers : Mean time; makers, (1) DENT No. 2749, (2) BLACKIE No. 789.
(i) Miscellaneous: Sextant, by BLuntT, of New York City.
(b) Observations of time stars. We furnish the time to 30 different points in the city. These points are connected by wire with our tower clock. Senior class study appearance of planets, Sun, and Moon. Some double stars measured.
(i) Used in class instruction and when the transit cannot be employed.
TV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (1879-80): (1) 'To continue the time service and to extend it. (2) Measurements of double stars. VI. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: The only papers which we have published are: (1) Outlines of work done by the Fort Worth solar eclipse party. (Proceedings A. A. A. 8., 1879.) (2) Report of personal work at Fort Worth in vol. “Report of the observations of the total solar eclipse July 29, 1878, made at Fort Worth, Texas, 1879.”
Location of observatory: (City) San Francisco; (County) San Francisco; (State) California. '
Name of observatory: Lick ASTRONOMICAL DEPARTMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.

<<<Page: 568>>>

The “additional information” comprises the whole of what Iam able to report concerning the “ Lick Astronomical Observatory.”
During this summer temporary accommodations have been erected at Mount Hamilton (observatory site), Santa Clara County, California, including a snug little house with revolving dome and masonry pier, upon which Prof. S. W. BURNHAM has a 6-inch equatorial mounted and at work with clock, micrometer, ete.
Professor BURNHAM is making various experiments to test the capabilities of the position as a place of observation, and his report will no doubt be received with eager interest.
The preliminary steps above indicated comprise the work of practical advancement so far as accomplished during the past year, being, it is hoped, a commencement of more effective progress.
Location of observatory: (City) South Bethlehem; (County) Northampton; (State) Pennsylvania. Name of observatory: SAYRE OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington, 6" 40°.19 east. Latitude, 40° 36/ 23/789 + .036. Authority for latitude and longitude: For longitude, Appendix I, Washington Observations 1875. Latitude, Ast. Nach., No. 2260.
I. PERSONNEL : : Director, C. L. DOOLITTLE.
(a) Meridian circles : None.
(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 6 inches; magnifying powers of eyépieces, 12 to 225.
(g) Clocks: Sidereal; makers, BoND & Son.
(i) Miscellaneous: A portable transit instrument by STACKPOLE, a zenith telescope by BLUNT, and a prismatic sextant by Pistor & MARTIN.
III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: (a) The field instruments are designed for the use of students in astronomy of the university, and have been employed to good purpose by them (ce) (c’) With the equatorial a series of measurements of Jupiter’s sat. ellites has been made; also a considerable number of eclipses and other phenomena of those satellites. A few observations of BRORSON’S comet were also made.
IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (187980): The observations of Jupiter will be continued, and such attention given to comets, eclipses, or other special appearances as circumstances will permit.

<<<Page: 569>>>

V. PRINCIPAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE OBSERVATORY DURING THE YEAR 1879: 1. C.L. DOOLITTLE, Observations of Jupiter’s Satellites, published in Ast. Nach. 2. C. L. DOOLITTLE, Mean declinations and proper motions of 58 stars, and the latitude of the Sayre Observatory, in Ast. Nach., vol. 95, page 49.
Location: Tarrytown, Westchester County, New York.
Position: Latitude, 41° 04’ 21” north; longitude, 73° 51’ 14” west, Greenwich.
Authority: United States Coast Survey.
The instrumental outfit under my control is so meager and uwnimportant as not to warrant an entry under the headings given above.
The principal work done during the past year has been in connection with the observations taken at Central City, Colo., at the time of the solar eclipse of 28th July, 1878. Asamember of the party in charge of Prof. E.S. HOLDEN, I determined the residuals between the times of observed contact and the instants obtained by computation from the
lunar tables. CHAS. H. ROCKWELL.
Location of observatory: (City) Poughkeepsie; (County) Dutchess ; (State) New York. ; Name of observatory: VASSAR COLLEGE. Longitude from Washington, 12", 385.5. Latitude 41° 41/ 18”.
I. PERSONNEL : Director, MARIA MITCHELL.
JI. INSTRUMENTS: (a) Meridian circles: 1; maker, YouNG, of Philadelphia; aperture of objective, 33 inches. (c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, object glass by CLARK; aperture of objective, 125 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 200 to 600+. (f) Chronographs : One. (g) Clocks : One clock sidereal ; makers, Bond & Son. (h) One chronometer: Mean time; makers, Bliss & Creighton. (i) Miscellaneous: Small telescopes; one by CLARK & SONS; aperture, 3 inches. III. OBSERVATIONS DURING THE PAST YEAR: (a) Observations for time. (c’) Observations on planets, especially Saturn. (i) Observations on Sun spots.

<<<Page: 570>>>

IV. WORK PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (18—): The work proposed for the coming year is the same as given above.
1. Maria Mitchell: Observations on the Satellites of Saturn; published in American Journal of Arts and Sciences, vol. xvii, June, 1879.
Location of Observatory: (City) Troy; (County) Rensselaer; (State) New York.
Name of Observatory: WILLIAMS PROUDFIT OBSERVATORY.
Longitude from Washington 13” 278.5 east (nearly). Latitude 42° 43/ 52”.
Authority for latitude and longitude: Latitude determined by observations with the zenith telescope; longitude by signals from United States Naval Observatory.
J. PERSONNEL: Director, Professor DASCOM GREENE. Assistant, PALMER C. RICKETTS.
(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, E. KUBEL, Washington; aperture, 2.5 inches; magnifying power, 60 diameters.
(b’) Makers, PHELPS & GURLEY, Troy; aperture, 2 inches; magnifying power, 30 diameters.
(c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, HENRY Firz, New York; aperture of objective, 3.5 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 45 to 200 diameters.
(g) Clocks: Mean time; maker, StTOKELL, New York; Howard, Boston.
(h) Chronometers: Sidereal; maker, J. FLETCHER, London.
(i) Miscellaneous: Sextant; TRouGHTON & Simms, London.
From September, 1878, to September, 1879.
(a) Besides regular transit observations for time, by the director and assistant, the instruments have been used by the senior class of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, for practice in astronomical observation.
This is expected to be similar to the work of the past year.
Location of observatory : (City) Washington, District of Columbia. Name of observatory: UNITED STATES NAVAL OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Greenwich 5" 8™ 128.09. Latitude +38° 53! 38.8”.

<<<Page: 571>>>

J. PERSONNEL : Director : Rear-Admiral Joun RopGERs, U.S. N. Assistants : 1. Prof. A. HALL. . Prof. W. HARKNESS, . Prof. J. R. Eastman, $ Professors U. S. Navy. Prof. E. 8. HOLDEN, Prof. E. FRISBY,
Mr. A. R. SKINNER Mr. H. W. PAvt, ; i Permanent Assistant Astron-
rs. . Mr. H. 8. PRITCHETT, ens
. Mr. J. A. ROGERS,
Temporarily employed in photographic experiments. 10. Mr. W. F. GARDNER, Instrument-maker.
DMONID ow
(a) Meridian circles: 1; makers, Pisror & MARTINS; diameter of circles, 43.40 inches; divided to 2’; read by 4 microscopes to 0”.1; aperture of objective, 8.52 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 3 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 186 diameters. :
(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, ERTEL & Son, aperture 5.33 inches; magnifying powers 85, 86, 106, 118, 162.
(b! ) Eight portable transits and zenith telescopes combined, used on Transit of Venus Expeditions.
(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, ALVAN CLARK & SONS; aperture of objective, 26 inches ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 126 to 1600.
(c’) Made by MrRz: 9.62 inches aperture ; powers, 90-900.
(c’’) Eight 5-inch equatorials by ALVAN CLARK & Sons, used on Transit of Venus Expeditions.
(e) Photometers : One nebula-photometer (Hastings’ pattern) for use with the 26-inch equatorial.
(f) Chronographs : Some 10 or 12 in all, of various kinds.
(gq) Clocks: Mean time, 2; sidereal, 6.
(h) Chronometers: Mean time, all the chronometers of the United States Navy are kept here. Sidereal, eight, by NEGUs.
(a) American ephemeris and miscellaneous stars; south stars of the B. A. C., many asteroids, and the Sun, Moon, and planets.
(b) The transit and mural and prime vertical transit are now out of use,
(c) Double stars, satellites of Mars, Saturn, Neptune, and Uranus, and nebule.
(c') Occultations; and the finding of asteroids preparatory to their observation by the transit circle.
(i) A series of daily photographs of the sun and photographic experiments looking to eclipse-photography.

<<<Page: 572>>>

REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. bit
IV. Work PROPOSED FOR THE COMING YEAR (1879-’80) : The same as in former years.
V. PRINCIPAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE OBSERVATORY : Report on the Transit of Mercury, 1878. EASTMAN, Meteorological Observations, 1876. EASTMAN, Meteorological Observations, 1877.
UNITED STATES NAVAL OBSERVATORY, Washington, October 20, 1879. * * * * ‘ * * *
“T strongly recommend the removal of the institution to a better site. The present grounds are malarious, the river fogs obscure the vision, rendering it less clear than in a position more removed from the water. When the contemplated improvements are made on the river front, which seem only the question of a short time, when the marsh, partly encircling the observatory, is filled in, and the hill on which the buildings rest is used as a top-dressing to the land thus acquired, this part of the city will be the center of its water commerce, and its value to the government will be greater than the cost of a new situation for the observatory. It thus seems that when the hill is cut down the selection of anew site will be imperative. It will be better to select this new site now, for the cost will be greater in the future.”*
The observers on this instrument have been the same as in the preceding year, namely, Prof. ASAPH HALL, in charge, and Prof. EDWARD S. HOLDEN, assistant. This instrument is now in good order, and is in constant use. The principal work done with it by the astronomers during the year is as follows:
The satellites of Saturn were observed until December 24, 1878. We have now accumulated a large number of observations of the three outer satellites of Saturn; and these observations ought to be completely reduced and discussed for the purpose of determining more accurately the orbits of these satellites and the mass of the planet.
The principal series of observations with this instrument are the observations of double stars by Professor HALL. The thirty stars selected by STRUVE for the comparisonof micrometrical measurements by various observers have each been observed eight nights on an average. This work may now be considered as finished.
*Note.—An appropriation of $75,000 has been made to purchase a new site.

<<<Page: 573>>>

In August last the Naval Observatory was honored by a visit from the distinguished director of the Pulkowa Observatory, Mr. Orro VON STRUVE, and his son Mr. HERMANN S1RUVE, who came for the purpose of examining our large telescope, with the view of purchasing a still larger one for the Imperial Observatory at Pulkowa. Iam happy to say that the performance of our telescope was found satisfactory by so competent and experienced a judge, and that Mr. SrruvgE has ordered a 30-inch objective from Messrs. ALVAN CLARK & Sons, the makers of our instrument.
This instrument, under the direction of Prof. J. R. EASTMAN, assisted by Prof. EpGAR FRIsBy, and assistant astronomers A. N. SKINNER, H. M. PAvt, and H. 8S. PrircuETt, has been employed in observations of—
(1.) Stars of the American ephemeris, for clock and instrumental corrections.
(2.) Sun, moon, major and minor planets.
(3.) Stars whose occultations were observed in connection with observations of the Transit of Venus in 1874.
(4.) Standard stars for a catalogue of zone observations.
(5.) Stars of the British Association Catalogue between 120° 0/ and TES LE! Nad ecg OF
(6.) Stars used in observations of comets with the 26-inch and 9.6-inch equatorials.
(7.) Stars used in the determination of latitude by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Lake Survey, Capt. G. M. WIteELER’S survey, and by Lieut. Commander IF’. M. GREEN in surveys in the West Indies.
(8.) Stars used by Mr. DAvip Griz, of the Royal Astronomical Society of London, in determining the solar parallax from observations of Mars with the heliometer.
The whole number of observations made with the transit cirele since the last annual report is 4,100. Of these observations, 81 were of the sun; 61 of the moon; 130 of the major planets, and 146 of the minor planets.
The meteorological department is under the direction of Professor EASTMAN, and the usual observations, at intervals of three hours, have been made throughout the year.
The Observatory is responsible for the control, by means of the motor clock, of clocks in the State, War, Navy, and Treasury Departments ; for furnishing accurate time-signals to the Western Union Telegraph Company, and for dropping the time-ball on the Western Union Telegraph Office in New York.
The facilities for controlling the clocks in the departments are now wholly inadequate; and a complete change will soon be made, which,
it is hoped, will insure thorough and continuous control.
————

<<<Page: 574>>>

REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES. Oy (ra.
A change also in the method of transmitting time-signals and of dropping the Washington and New York time-balls is nearly completed, and will probably be in operation by the end of October.
Prof. WILLIAM HARKNESS reports as follows:
The photographs of the late Transit of Mercury were examined, and out of the whole number it was found that twenty-five of the Cambridge pictures, twenty-three of the Washington pictures, and sixty-four of the Ann Arbor pictures were sufficiently well defined for measurement. Accordingly, these one hundred and twelve plates have been read off, all but twelve being done in duplicate; and the computations, also in duplicate, have been nearly completed. About three months’ work is yet required to determine from the photographs the final corrections to the right ascension and declination of Mercury.
The drawings of Mars, made by Professor HARKNESS during the opposition of 1877, have been transformed from the orthographic to Mercator’s projection, and a map of the planet has been constructed. General tables have also been computed, which give directly the areographie latitude and longitude of the center of the dise of Mars, and the position angle of its axis as seen from the earth; the arguments being the geocentric right-ascension and north polar distance of the planet.
Mr. Jos. A. ROGERS has been employed under a special appropriation for experiments in astronomical photography, and has spent most of his time in endeavoring to overcome the uncertainties of the emulsion process. Here it may be well to remark that our success in photographing the total eclipse of the Sun of July, 1878, was largely due to the excellence of the emulsion which he furnished; and the future of astronomical photography seems to a great extent dependent upon the emulsion process. Hence the importance of the experiments in which Mr. RoGErs is engaged. He has also photographed the Sun on every clear day, and has made numerous copies of the negatives of the corona taken during the eclipse mentioned above.
The library is in charge of Prof. EDwARrpD S. HOLDEN, in addition to his other duties. It is now in a satisfactory condition.
A card catalogue has been begun, and over 9,000 cards made. Part I of the catalogue of the Library ‘‘ Astronomical Bibliography” will be printed in 1879,
A complete index to the publications of the observatory, from 1845 to 1875, has been made. It will be printed as Appendix I to the Observations for 1876. At intervals of ten years similar indexes should be made.
The usual annual appropriation of $1,000 for the purchase and care of astronomical works should be continued.

<<<Page: 575>>>

y574 REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES,
In this connection it may be said that our library is now the best astronomical library in the United States, and is constantly appealed to by persons not connected with the observatory. It is highly desirable that it should be still further increased, and that this valuable collec-
tion, which, if destroyed, could hardly be replaced, should be safely ~
lodged in a fire-proof room. CHRONOMETERS.
There are at the present time in the chronometer room one hundred and ten (110) mean-time chronometers. "
A time-ball on the tower of the Western Union Telegraph Company’s main building in New York City is dropped daily at New York, noon (except Sunday), from the chronometer-room. During the year this ball has failed to drop eight times; three, because wires were out of order
at New York; once, on account of the wire insulation here having been |
destroyed by lightning; three times, here, because of the mean-time clock having stopped, and the changing of wires while putting in instruments and telephones; and once, for which no cause could be found.
At Washington, noon, a time-ball is dropped from the staff on the dome of the observatory, and time-signals are transmitted to all parts of the United States.
The following paper by Prof. Snron NEwcomps, secretary of the Transit of Venus Commission, and charged with the preparation of the report, is herewith appended.
“The reductions of the Transit of Venus work are in the following state:
“Part I, containing a general discussion of the observations so far as to deduce equations of condition from them, is ready for the press.
‘Part II, containing the reports of the observers and the observations made at the several stations, is also nearly ready.
‘‘ Part II, containing the discussion of the longitudes of the stations, from occultations, and other sources, is still incomplete and requires some examination from me, which I shall be unable to give it for two or three months to come.
“Part IV, which should contain the photographic plate-measures, is in the hands of Professor HARKNESS.”
Location of observatory : Whitestone; (County) Queens; (State) New York. Name of observatory : WILLETS POINT FIELD OBSERVATORY. Longitude from Washington, east 13™ 048.57 + 0.14. Latitude, north 40° 47/ 20”, Authority for latitude and longitude: Observations with zenith telescope; telegraphic time signals from Washington.

<<<Page: 576>>>

joy =~!
I. PERSONNEL: Director, General H. L. ABBOT, Corps of Engineers. Assistants : Capt. A. M. MILuer, Corps of Engineers, and officers on duty with the battalion of engineers.
(b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, TRouGHTON; focal length, 30 inches ; aperture, 2 inches; Russian transit, STACKPOLE & Bro.; foeal length, 31 inches; aperture, 24 inches ; combined transit, and zenith teloscope, WURDEMANN; focal length, 30 inches; aperture, 23 inches.
(ec) Equatorial instruments: Maker, TULLEY; portable; focal length, 65 inches ; aperture of objective, 3.8 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50 to 200; mounted on tripod with SwEATon’s block.
(d) Spectroscopes : 1; Chemical.
(f) Chronographs: Field pattern, made by NEGUS.
(h) Chronometers: Mean time; makers, ARNOLD & DeEnvT (1). Sidereal; makers, BOND & Son (2); both with NEGUS break-circuit arrangement.
(i) Miscellaneous : 1. Zenith telescope, made by WURDEMANN, of latest pattern; magnifying power, 80 diameters; 2 STACKPOLE & Bro. sextants; 1 portable field transit, by SrAcKPOLE & Bro.; focal length, 24 inches; aperture, 2 inches.
The object of the observatory is the instrtiction of junior officers of engineers on duty at the engineer school of application in practical fie'd astronomy, such as they may be called upon to practice on boundary geodetic surveys. The work has been directed accordingly.
As above.
Location of observatory: (City) Ypsilanti; (County) Washtenaw ; (State) Michigan. Name of observatory : Michigan State Normal School. Longitude from Washington, 6° 32’ 30’ west. Latitude 42° 13’. Authority for latitude and longitude: J. C. WATSON.
I. PERSONNEL : Director, LEw1s McLouTa, M. A.
II. INSTRUMENTS : (b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, GURLEY, Albany; aperture, 1$ inches ; magnifying power, 30 diameters. (ec) Equatorial instruments ; Maker, A. CLARK, Cambridgeport, Mass ; aperture of objective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 45, 90, 144, 210.

<<<Page: 577>>>

(d) Spectroscopes : BROWNING, London, 2 prism.
(hk) Chronometers ; 1 Sidereal; maker, NEGUS.
(i) Miscellaneous: Our observatory building will be completed this fall. No systematic work has been done. Our building is small, and its equipment is for instruction rather than investigation. I expect, however, to have a larger and better outfit in the course of this school year. As my time is largely taken up with the work of instruction in physies and in chemistry as well as in astronomy, I cannot expect at present to do much. I hope within the year to get a much better transit instrument. My equatorial is quite good—the one with which Professor WATSON made his observations on the supposed planet Vulcan.

<<<Page: 578>>>

BASEL. (Ep. HAGENBACH, Director of the Physical Institute.)
The principal instruments are: The equatorial, made by the *‘ Société Genevoise pour la construction @instruments de physique” mounted on an isolated pillar, under a movable dome of 5 metres diameter. The instrument is provided with a centrifugal regulator, constructed according to Prof. M. Thury’s directions, with position micrometer, spectroscope, and camera obscura.
The meridian circle, constructed by the Société Genevoise, with 25 objective, by C. A. Steinheil.
The astronomical clock was constructed by Theodor Knoblich, in Hamburg.
The mean time is given by means of an electric pendulum, by M. Hipp, in Neuenburg.
Both clocks connect with a number of dials in various rooms, and also with the chronograph.
(Prof. H. FoERSTER, Director of the Observatory ; Dr. TIETJEN, Director of the Computing Bureau.
The small meridian circle was used by Dr. Steinbrink, a volunteer observer, in comparison star determinations for planetary observations.
The large meridian circle was used to continue the observations of the 521 fundamental stars of the V. J. 8S. Catalogue and those of Mayer’s catalogue. In connection with this a series of observations were made which served partly to determine star positions for the examination of the heliometers of the German transit of Venus and Mr. Gill’s expeditions, and partly to examine certain systematic errors in observing.
For time determinations and position of instrument 858 stars were observed on 108 nights.
Observations were made for examination of the influence of the position of the head (north or south) in observations of stars near the zenith. For the same purpose 155 observations of right ascension were made at the request of Mr. Gill on 12 stars designated by him. | S. Mis. 5437 oi

<<<Page: 579>>>

The spare time was principally employed in determining the definite position of the (521) Bradley stars, and their mean positions turned over to Professor Auwers. The catalogue containing the (2,100) observations is to be published by the observatory.
Dr. Knorre observed with the 9-inch equatorial on determination of positions.
The new micrometer for the measurement and registration of differences of declination, described by Dr. Knorre in vol. 93 (p. 363) of the Astronomische Nachrichten, was brought into service in determination of 572 stars.
The time-service has been continued. The results of the service carried on jointly by the Berlin, Konigsberg, and Hamburg observatories will probably be published shortly.
The principal work of the computing bureau has been, as in former years, the publication of the Astronomisches Jahrbuch.
Of the ephemerides of the 529 stars of the Astronomical Society the volume for 1879 was published; 22 circulars (83-104) were issued, and in them will be found 43 computations of new elements and 62 ephemerides. Of the former 33, and of the latter 47, were computed in Berlin. Of the “ Correspondenzen tiber Planetenbeobachtungen,” Nos. 46-68 were issued.
(Professor E. SCHONFELD, Director. )
The progress of the work has been greatly retarded by the unfavorable state of the weather and by a change ‘in the personnel. Dr. Seeliger resigned, and his place was occupied by Dr. Deichmiiller, who again was succeeded by Mr. Emil Kaiser. :
The meridian circle was used in observing 53 zones and adding some important fragments, containing 380 stars of comparison and 1,707 zone stars. Six hundred and twenty-seven zones have been observed.
The southern review with the Schréder telescope, Mr. Kerper assist|
ing, resulted in the determination of 44,204 star positions, which were —
partly reduced to 1855.
One hundred and two special catalogues were commenced and 46 —
completed. A catalogue of doubtful observations has been commenced, containing now 780 numbers.
State of work December 31, 1878.
1. Zones: 395, 6 hours, containing 189,606 star observations.
2. Computation of reduction tables: no arrears.
3. Computed star positions: 3,000 in arrears.
4, Special catalogues of 1"and 1° extension: Commenced, 439; arrears, 65; mostly finished, 100; complete, 160 ; without any doubt, 22.
5. Distribution of the observations.

<<<Page: 580>>>

REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. Dis)
Quadrant. Ts Tile Tr. | Iv. | Total.
Hours.| Hours.| Hours.| Hours. | Hours.
INOnnermybhindiicce -fs. cities ots cose anaes ee aac eeane cos ee eene 37.9 41.8 46.7 | 47.9 174.3 IMAC Geren ctesimaiccicewas cance wateratale cts ciate etme nielamie ce aie aioe | 19. 2 11.8) 24.0) 26.1 81.1 Southermsthird\s2=.sassccemeeeeeoe J gependossocebeaesacceed| | AGG 29.7] 38.0} 45:0 140. 2
MOA! cose we deweelton ccaw a eae ce enaas shee nast oie oae 84. 6 83. 3 108. 7 119. 0 395. 6
Observations on the light of variable stars were made, and the transit of Mercury observed on the 6th of May.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, BRESLAU. (J. G. GALLE, Director.)
Owing to a number of circumstances which prevented the purchase of new and improved instruments, the activity of the observatory, in an astronomical point of view, has been mainly confined to the instruction of the students of mathematics.
Regular observations, however, were made in meteorology, embracing a series of eighty-eight years (since 1791), to which were added, nine years ago, the daily records of the variation in the magnetic declination.
The works in progress are: A compilation and reduction of all the meteorological observations made at the observatory since 1791. This work also contains a compilation of geographical constants, topographical communications, and determinations of heights, and notes respecting the progress in astronomy in Silesia and elsewhere.
ROYAL OBSERVATORY, BRUSSELS. (J. C. HouzEAu, Director. )
The death of Mr. Ernest Quetelet has materially changed the programme of work of the observatory. Mr. Quetelet had, at the time of his death, commenced the last series of his work on stars with proper motion, an account of which work, commenced in 1848, was given by himself. Of the unfinished portion of the work the observations for 1876 are in the hands of the printer; the calculations of those for 1877 are well advanced, and the computation of those for 1878 will soon commence.
Meridian instruments were employed as follows: The mural circle to observe « and d Urs minoris for the purpose of determining the lati-~ tude; the Gambey meridian transit to observe fundamental stars for time. Moon-culminating stars were observed for the determination of geographic longitudes. Telegraphic comparisons are being made with Greenwich.
The solar spectrum has been observed, and micrometric measurements made of certain double stars. The satellites of Jupiter were observed whenever the state of the sky permitted.
All the observations were made as accurate as the old instruments of

<<<Page: 581>>>

the observatory permit, but it would be desirable to have them replaced by the new and improved ones now in course of construction.
PUBLICATIONS.—The ‘Annales de l Observatoire” have been divided into 2 sections, the “Annales Astronomiques” and the “Annales Météorologiques.” The first volume of ‘‘Annales Astronomiques” contains “Uranométrie Générale” and a compilation under the title, ‘‘Repertoire des Constants de l’ Astronomie.” The second volume contains the observations with the meridian instrument and with the mural circle, during the years 1873, 1874, 1875 ; physical observations of Mars during the opposition of 1877, accompanied by chromo-lithographed plates.
The first volume of the “Annales Météorologiques,” about to appear, contains meteoroéogical and magnetic observations made in 1876 and 1877.
‘“T/?Annuaire” for 1879, and the catalogue of astronomical and meteorological books in the principal libraries of Belgium, have been published.
A law was passed on the 29th of March, 1877, directing the publication of a magnetic chart of the country. Observations for this purpose were taken on inclination, declination, and intensity, and the computations of the same are now ina well-advanced state.
DUSSELDORF OBSERVATORY. (Dr. ROBERT LUTHER, Director. )
The isolation and strength of the old brick pillar carrying the 7-foot instrument, weighing 975 pounds, having become doubtful, a new pillar of basalt lava, resting on a foundation of brick, laid in cement, was erected. A satisfactory proof of the stability of this new pillar has been offered in the recent severe shocks of earthquake, which did not change its isolation.
The fruitless searching for (118) Peitho and other not much observed planets, and the alarming increase (now about 38) in the number of minor planets observed in only one opposition, induces me to make the request that the observers may be assisted in future to overcome the difficulties of finding them again by more exact opposition-ephemerides and by the publication of several hundred special charts on the scale of the Paris charts.
In addition to the observations made for correction of instruments and time, 41 observations were made on 23 planets. Since 1847, 897 observations were made on 112 planets.
The work of continuing Herschel’s sweeps, undertaken in September, 1877, and reported upon last year, has been continued. In addition to the 219 fields, 264 fields were swept and 5,831 stars counted. The present state of the work is 483 fields and 13,500 stars. Observations were

<<<Page: 582>>>

made on double stars and red stars. Saturn’s satellites were observed on 24 nights from the 30th of August.
GOTHA OBSERVATORY. (Dr. A. KRUGER, Director.)
Since the last report the observations of the zone stars between 55° and 65° N. declination have been continued. Mr. A. Donner resigned his position as assistant, and was succeeded by Dr. L. de Ball. The number of zones has been increased to 645, and the observations now number 32,500, One or two nights will be sufficient to close the series. The computation of the observations was continued. The deduction of the transits and of the apparent declinations is nearly completed, as also tables of reductions to the mean positions for 1875. A copy was made for publication of the original observations. The original observations will be published at the earliest possible moment.
HAMBURG OBSERVATORY. (Dr. GEORG, RUEMKER, Director.)
Owing to prevailing unfavorable weather—only 181 nights during the entire year could be utilized, and in most cases only in part, for observing—the work of cataloguing stars and nebule progressed but very little. The meridian circle was employed in observations on time and on positions of fixed stars and planets. Positions of nebule were determined with the equatorial.
The usefulness of the IV Division of the ‘‘Seewarte” (chronometertesting institute), which was placed under the observatory, has satisfaetorily increased. On oceasion of the second competitive chronometer test, instituted by the imperial navy department, 51 chronometers were exhibited by 12 German manufacturers, 7 of whom reside in HamburgAltona.
The time signals had to be discontinued for some time on account of the damage done to the apparatus during the severe storm of March 8. The time-ball stations at Cuxhaven and Bremerhaven have worked very satisfactorily.
Dr. G. Koch resigned his position, and was succeeded by Dr. Karl Schrader, of O’Gyalla, Hungary.
KREMSMUNSTER OBSERVATORY. (G. STRASSER, Director. )
The meridian circle was furnished with new microscope and new horizontal level. Observations on the Moon and moon-culminating stars were continued. Planetary observations were made partly with the meridian istrument and partly with the refractor. 4

<<<Page: 583>>>

ed | oe) bo
Uranus, Jupiter, and Neptune, were observed with the meridian circle.
Observations were made on 12 minor planets.
Fifty comparison stars of planets were determined with the meridian circle, for which purpose 160 positions had to be taken. A large number of positions of fixed stars were observed, but have not yet been reduced.
The transit of Mercury was invisible on account of clouds, and the same occurred on occasion of the eclipse of the Pleiades.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, LEIPZIG. (Prof. C. Bruuns, Director.)
No change has taken place in the personnel. The following gentlemen are volunteer observers: Messrs. Gautier, Dr. Hilfiker, von Dankelman, Keiser, Meier, Regler, Schneider, and Schnauder.
The following instruments were procured: A Meyerstein universal instrument, used by Dr. Borger in his expedition to East Greenland; a new registering apparatus by Fuess, including a polarizing relay. Telephonie connection has been established.
Mr. Weinek, who is still engaged in the discussion of the photographic views of Venus, observed with the meridian circle, and Dr. Peter, with the equatorial: 23 stars in RA and Decl. were observed, and 12 stars in RA for a discussion by Mr. Gill. Minor planets were observed with the meridian circle.
Preparations aud experiments were made for zone-observations. Mr. Weinek observed the transit of Mercury with the 6-foot refractor, and took 44 photographic views of the planet by means of the photoheliograph, which was used, in 1874, in Kerguelen Island.
Dr. Peter, with the equatorial, made in 99 nights, 181 observations on 51 minor planets and 12 observations on comparison stars.
Tempel’s comet was invisible, and observations on Swift's comet failed on account of an error in the dispatch announcing the discovery.
The first contact in the transit of Mercury, an eclipse of the Moon, and eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter, were observed.
The changes supposed by Dr. Klein to have taken place in Hyginus in the Moon, failed to be detected in drawings made by Dr. Peter for the purpose.
Mr. Leppig, with a small Frauenhofer refractor, observed on sunspots; he also observed the transit of Mercury, the eclipse of the Moon, ete.
Mr. Schneider practiced with the 6-foot refractor and made drawings of nebule. Mr. Dietrich examined the photometer, but did not complete a series of observations.
The first volume of the “ Leipzig Beobachtungen” will be published shortly.
METEOROLOGICAL WORK.—The greater part of the observations with

<<<Page: 584>>>

self-registering instruments were reduced by Mr. Leppig. The results of the tri-daily observations were published in the annual report of the Leipzig Geographical Society. The volume containing the tri-daily observations of all stations will be published shortly. Telegraphic obserrations were sent to General Myer, in Washington. Mr. von Dankelman is in charge of the Bureau for Weather Prognosties.
MISCELLANEOUS.—Mr. Weinek, assisted by Mr. Regler, and Dr. Hilfiker, has continued the reductions of the transit of Venus.
Mr. Harzer’s time and geographical determinations of the Venus expedition, were revised by Mr. Schneider, and are nearly ready for publication.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, LUND. (Professor AXEL MOLLER, Director. )
The refractor was used by Dr. Dunér on making observations on double stars; U. Geminorum and V. Coronz were observed by him systematically and over 1,500 spectroscopic observations made.
Dr. Lindstedt determined comparison stars for the refractor observations.
Observations for the zone + 35° to + 40° were commenced and continued during the second half of the year. The programme contains 11,200 stars, of which, owing to unfavorable weather, only 1,183 could be observed.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, MANNHEIM. (Dr. W. VALENTINER, Director.)
The observations on the cluster G. C. 4410, of which the densest portion had been previously observed, were extended farther to the north. Seventy-one stars were determined by observation of the differences of 3168 right-ascensions and of 1507 declinations. The second group G. C. 1166 contains 36 stars with observations of differences for 1570 rightascensions and 594 declinations. The results of the observations on the above groups are in the hands of the printer, and expected soon to be ready for distribution.
Of group G. C. 1454, only a few measttrements were obtained. Of this group 2 stars were noted as double stars (A. O./ 5645 and—10%,—1’.7),
Measurements in G. C. 1119 will be commenced shortly.
The reduction of the meridian observations of Barry has been printed in the ‘“Jahresbericht des Mannheimer Vereins fiir Naturkunde” and distributed.
Money has been appropriated for the purchase of a transit instrument, The Reichenbach Repeating Circle is to be changed into a meridian circle.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, MILAN. (Prof. M. SCHIAPARELLI, Director.)
During the year ill-health prevented the usual activity.in the use of the refractor, and only 102 double stars were measured. No comet was

<<<Page: 585>>>

observed. Advantage was taken of this inactivity to examine the periodic errors in the micrometer screw, which was done twice; the micrometer, meanwhile, being taken apart and cleaned. The errors discovered were very small, less than 0/.04.
The northern hemisphere of Mars being somewhat free of snow during first four months of 1878, I was able, in some measure to complete the topographical map of that planet made during the previous year. During the same period we observed the aspects of Venus, and made many sketches before and after the inferior conjunction. The results were not satisfactory, but we will continue observations for two other inferior conjunctions to have the aspect under all geocentric longitudes.
Professor Celoria has reduced the meridian circle observations made during 18712. In the first six months of 1878 he made with this instrument 1,200 observations on stars of rapid movement and on the principal ones of the new doubles of Mr. Burnham. In the last six months the construction of the adjoining tower of the registering anemograph has prevented observations with the circle. In the mean time Professor Celoria devoted Limself to preparing for publication his caleulations of longitudes made in 1875, and continued his studies of ancient eclipses.
The determination of time for the use of the observatory and the city has been made by Dr. Frisiani—who also has charge of the meteorological observations—and assistant, Dr. Rajna.
A new equatorial refractor of 18 French inches aperture is being made for the observatory by A. Repsold, of Hamburg.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, MOSCOW, (Dr. Tu. Brepicuin, Director.)
Professor Bredichin continued his spectroscopic observations of the Sun, observed on Jupiter, and made microscopic measurements of the star Algol and of some star-groups.
The tails of the folowing comets were computed by him: 1577, 1618 (3), 1665, 1807, 1811, 1823, 1835, 1843 (1), 1845 (8), 1853° (2), 1853 (3) 1853 (4), 1854 (2), 1854 (3), 1857 (3), 1858, 1860 (3), 1862 (2), 1863 (4), 1877 (2), and a memoir published on comets.
Mr. Ceraski continued his photometric observations of stars.
Messrs. Belopolski and Socoloft observed the August meteors, and made a series of meridian observations of stars with independent motion, and examined the errors of the microscope and of the meridian circle.
Mr. Belopolski continued his photographic observations of the Sun.
The buildings are progressing and some of them are being occupied, temporarily, by the laboratory and the library. A temporary structure was erected in 1874, for heliographie experiments.

<<<Page: 586>>>

The erection of the large refractor has to be delayed until next spring. The optical parts of the heliograph were purchased. Of smaller instruments were purchased :
A telescope by Schroeder 0".078 aperture and 0".84 focal distance; a comet-seeker of 0".076 aperture; a 12-inch universal instrument by Repsold ; a 5-inch reflector by Pistor and Martins; a #8 clock by Tiede; a small star-spectroscope and an astatic mirror-galvanometer by Siemens and Halske.
For time-determinations a small transit was borrowed of the BerlinObservatory.
Dr. P. Kempf, of Berlin, has been employed as assistant.
The observations on sun-spots and protuberances were continues by Professor Sporer, assisted by Dr. Kempf. No spots were visible in 173 days out of 245 days of observation.
The mean heliographic latitude of the spots amounted to +7° in the first four months, +9° in the second, and in the last four months they were visible only in the northern hemisphere. Only a small number of the days were favorable for protuberance observations. Professor Sporer completed the arrangement of the sun-spot observations for 1871-1873, and, assisted by Dr. Kempf, computed those measured in the years 1874-1878.
Dr. Vogel and Dr. Miiller continued the examination of the solar spectrum.
Spectroscopic observations of fixed stars and nebule were made by Dr. Vogel. With the instruments employed could be seen those nebulie mentioned by Herschel as “pretty bright,” and under favorable conditions the observer could determine the character of the spectrum of the nebule termed “faint.” Only 54 nebule spectra were examined.
The examination of the surfaces of planets was continued by Dr. Lohse with the 73-inch telescope; 38 drawings were made of Jupiter and observations made on Saturn.
Dr. Lohse took photographie views of the Sun, a large number of which were made with a photographit telescope of 0".057 aperture and 1”.5 focal distance. He also experimented in the laboratory on the new and, in astro-photography, important process of employing gelatine in place of collodion.
Dr. Miiller made determinations of refraction in various kinds of glass intended for use in astronomical instruments. He also continued his photometric researches.
Observations were made on 63 days on Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Vesta, the comparison of which was made either direct or with Capella, and on fixed stars.
The time-determinations were made by Dr. Kempf with the refractor and by meridian observations with Ertel’s transit.
The transit of Mercury was observed and the meteorological observations continued in the usual manner.

<<<Page: 587>>>

586 REPORTS OF EUROPEAN OBSERVATORIES. Publications of the Observatory.
1. Notices on observations of the new star in the Swan, by Dr. Vogel. 2. Report on the Transit of Mercury. 5. Observations on the sun-spots from October, 1871, to December, 1873, by Professor Sporer.
4. Observations and researches on the physical condition of Jupiter, and observations on Mars, by Dr. Lohse.
5. On the origin of protuberances by chemical processes, by Professor Sporer.
6. Dr. Vogel’s report on the observations of the solar spectrum is in press.
7. The star-group 7 Persei, observed in the years 1867-1870 with the 8-inch refractor of the Leipzig Observatory, by Dr. Vogel.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, STOCKHOLM. (Dr. HUGO GYLDEN, Director.)
The work of the observatory has quite unexpectedly been interrupted by the sickness of the director and by the resignation of the assistants. At present the personnel is again complete, Mr. C. A. Lindhagen being first and Mr. H. Branting second assistant, with Mr. Rankin, of Helsingfors, assisting temporarily.
Examination was made of the error in the division of the meridian circle, mainly performed by Mr. Jiderin, and to be described by him in a special report.
The observations commenced in 1877, with the view of determining relative parallaxes by registration of differences of right ascension of stars close together, has to be delayed on account of the sickness of the director. The observations made thus far refer to the following stars:
a Cassiopeiz. € Herculis.
p Cassiopeix. B Lyre.
8 Andromede. =» lyre:
% Persei. e Cygni.
¢ Persei. 61 Cygni.
a Persei. ¢ Cygni.
a Aurige. 7 Cygni.
No. 61 of Argelander’s Catalogue. No. 240 of Argelander’s Catalogue. 6 Aurigze. ¢ Andromede.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, STRASSBURG. (Prof. A. WINNECKE, Director.) One hundred and seventy-eight observations on 118 nebule were made in 41 nights. A very considerable periodic variability of brightness was
recognized in the nebula h 882 = HI. 20, and is very probable in nebula h 1061 = H IV, 56.

<<<Page: 588>>>

Sixteen observations were made of Nova Cygni. Not much progress was made in the comparative observations of double stars. The attendant of a Scorpii was observed on the 18th of July.
A series of observations was commenced on the double star Y 1516.
The environs of Kepler’s and Tycho’s Nova were observed several times.
Of variable stars minima were observed by Dr. Winnecke of S Cancri, Algol, 2 Tauri, U Coron, and the maximum of Mira Cetti.
Swift’s comet could not be found; Tempel’s periodic comet was seen on several occasions.
The conjuction of Mercury and Venus was observed on September 30.
Dr. Schur observed for time with Canchoix’s transit; 54 culminations of the first and 29 of the second limb of the moon were observed, and the opposition and quadratures of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune.
Seventy-one comparison-stars were determined. Dr. Schur and Mr. Hartwig continue with the heliometer the series of measurements of the solar diameter; 54 measurements were obtained by Dr. Schur. The minimum of Algol was observed twice, that of 2 Tauri once.
A series of observations with the large spectroscope was commenced on the refraction of the two kinds of glass employed by Merz in the construction of the 18-inch objective.
Mr. Hartwig obtained measurements with the heliometer of the polardiameter of the sun on 103 days, and of the equatorial diameter on 106 days. The same instrument was employed by him to locate the moon’s craters: Moésting A; Hypatia B; Lapeyrouse.
The diameter of Mars and Venus were measured 2 and 7 times, respectively ; the distances of 7, 17, and 7, 27 Tauri observed in 7 nights, and the 5 star-distances in Cygnus 5 times each.
The heliometer was improved (by Messrs. Repsold) by a new positioncircle.
The large comet-seeker was employed, Mr. Hartwig obtaining 2 maxima of R Vulpecule and T Herculis, maximum of V Cancri, S Coron, R Orionis, S and T Urs Majoris, 2 Aquilie, R and S Hereulis, R Draconis, 8S Geminorum, R Camelopardi; 2 minima of S Urs Majoris, and the minimum of R Draconis and minima of Algol.
Observations were made on transit of Mercury on the partial eclipse of the moon and the eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter.
The following instruments were purchased: A prism-circle by Steinheil, one Merz telescope of 101"" aperture, one Plissl of 76™" aperture, and a Paris theodolite which has been changed to a spectrometer. A 2-foot Leibherr repetition-circle was presented by Director Merz.
The buildings for the new observatory are well under way, and it is hoped that they will soon be ready for occupation.

<<<Page: 589>>>

IMPERIAL OBSERVATORY, VIENNA. (Dr. E. Weiss, Director.)
Owing to financial complications less progress was made in the construction of the new observatory than was anticipated. The most important part of the work consisted in the erection of the large dome. The interior of the building is in a sufficiently advanced state to permit the occupation. .
But little hope is entertained that the new meridian circle and the large refractor can be obtained this year. As a consequence the instruments of the old observatory, with the addition of a 113-inch Clark refractor and a 6-inch comet-seeker, will have to be used.
The activity in the old observatory was very limited. Dr. Holetschek determined with the meridian circle the position of those stars which were selected as fundamental points for the Vienna zones between + 15° and + 18° declination. He also observed a few asteriods.
Mr. A. Palisa continued the observations with the 6-inch refractor of the asteroids until August, when Mr. Ei. Glaser took his place. Comparatively small results were obtained.
Volume 27 of the Annales of the Observatory, published last summer, contains, besides a necrology of C. v. Littrow, the paths of 2,685 meteors and those of 1,175 meteors observed in Vienna between the years 1840-1845, not reduced and published before; and finally the meteorological observations of 1877.
Volume 28 of the Annales, just in press, will be devoted mainly to zone observations.
ASTRO-PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, WILHELMSHAVEN. (Dr. C. BORGEN, Director. )
The buildings were completed in July, 1878, and occupied in August.
The principal instrument is a meridian circle by Repsold of 120" aperture, 1.5" focal distance, 2 circles of 0.5 diameter, and is furnished with level, 2 collimators of 67°" aperture, and an artificial horizon.
The standard clock is one of Tiede’s pendulums. A second clock of inferior quality is located in the chronometer room, and is used both for comparison of chronometers and as clock for the registering apparatus in the meridian room.
A Steinheil refractor of 33’ aperture is used for astronomical observations, and some astro-nautical instruments for practice.
The observatory possesses meteorological instruments and aself-recording apparatus for tidal observations, a collection of such magnetic instruments as are used on shipboard, and a model for the study of the deviation of the magnetic needle produced by the iron of a ship.
The activity of the observation is fourfold :
1, Astronomical, including time-service.

<<<Page: 590>>>

2. Meteorological; the observations are being published monthly in the “Annalen der Hydrographie.”
3. Physical, the registering of magnetic and tidal observations; and
4, Nautical, comprising the examination of chronometers and barometers, and the determination of the compass deviation on shipboard.
Tides have been observed at various places and the observations discussed. Only one series, the one of Wilhelmshaven, has been printed in the Annales; but as a result of the observations tidal tables for the Baltic Sea have been published by the hydrographic bureau of the imperial navy. i
Time signals were received from the Berlin Observatory during the earlier stages of its time-ball service.
Observations with the meridian circle were made on the Moon and such objects as are connected with it, including Uranus and Neptune.
The meteorological observations have been continued uninterruptedly.
Observations are being made on declination, inclination, and intensity of the terrestrial magnetism.
The personnel of the institute has been increased by the appointment, as assistant, of Dr. Andries.
UNIVERSITY OBSERVATORY, ZURICI. ’ (Dr. RuDOLF WOLr?, Director.
Observations on frequency of sun-spots were made whenever practicable, and the notes on sun-spot literature continued in the “Astronomische Mittheilungen.” For determination of position of the spots, observations could be taken only on sixteen days, and were conducted by Mr. Alfred Wolfer.
Comparisons of Mairet’s clock (standard) for sidereal time were made by Mr. Wolfer, who also recorded a number of observations with the equatorial and micrometric measurements, made 2 drawings of Venus, 52 of Jupiter, 18 of Saturn, and observed the transit of Mercury.

<<<Page: 591>>>

wind)
i dole
fi Hi mnie | het
> Hrs Hf ‘tier Wen! ; e Pi) ; 4 rn yy fia 1 ‘ 4 is aay oh [iow j } j tei T PM itien i | ; 5 A iT A rie pie L ‘ . | ib) { ares Die Pa) Gane Head aon ave?) (ose ie ie Led ae 4 Cya}ey Bb? pa eh here het tas eh Hoth ‘dl : ae "1 Pit F wait the i ee Hi \ ile u hatte fa os fant ; : se re, ie ; iid Pili lies Aer Pal a > : re Cee vA on Liste oe 7 : | 2 aes (44 ipo 1 Hea Uyail Sa eU HR Rect Mens hea atoar {' le. ell a . a : . 5 sae CU ; Wert el Rs ve bes a on ] rivbtaile wih Sonik fay opts! ont abathe: rife ies Mi ae frat? Hil ies ea ahh bate re ve i bai j ) / } a ' eae. nih aah walt fcorey ae Ae Fete si ( a, : eee Ueradey (lt : . (mu eee ery by i fosepan Oi ioe | prety tie ic « ; far) Say pica neerng' (vg ss. i eas +n Pee aba | P ah i. i ’ sohahaal A Ae el ba ae, LE ae j SaintPSIRY oy \ Wait lahat Mi Aeliiee Vex ¥ toate a aie j ; Frais ; Rae Ad Be 4d “SKE , i j ‘ ia 6 1 ‘ . Ayal ‘ ’ : . a on ra ee bets hy ist bai we) v 7 A my “ “ my, dhs $3 veh os nhs : } i A 7 en) oi f tt Ne ie Ce ftp’! vii ny Mey ule wi : vane «TT. brlee eave yaaa We werner wie eA en.
‘Talbahe Qe at iesiate aaalea FETS NaRRAS
it ular) 7, Awl ; i. * hag ¥ wanes hd te Ai 41
7 we re i : ; 5 ee ete auras, % i . a < ener cap saad eat , j 4 r aD ® a iat ain é yt 4 pis : ead
i: cae a
[RSS «one
_ 7 + aT) = ome LA 4

<<<Page: 592>>>

A STUDY OF THE SAVAGE WEAPONS AT THE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION, BY EDac WNIBID 6, IKGNAKCTEMRE od ep66o0 ce coo bed boabbs Dando soaoue oBhSaS Bese 213 Ione, Al, ante Keen, Ceres Or Coos Is Wldesooss sooaebons cascou Hoseedbosoec 216 SeeNOZAMDIGUOLC]UDS sma. csmeveccans a ccpeeee soe ccrsee seine sae ee Q17 3. Native Australian with club and shield, Queensland...... Seaeysbice 217 4, Australian wooden weapons, New South Wales..-..--........--.-218 HepAustraliantn manasa Va CtOLl dias see seasons oa eee nice eacicereee 218 Ga Woodentclubs;News:Zealandess-ceose-cessecsnss onciceseee ane eee lo Uepotone;meral, News Zeal an Gere icte sei ce ss cise e nmi o ator eae scien elo &. Green-stone merai, New Zealand... -...-......ai cis copes a etary 219 9. Maori P&étu Kohatu, New Zealand.-........--. foe crsccias soc eewate 220 10. Kakati weapons (bone of whale), New Zealand ..---...---.-.----. 220 11. Ojibeway wooden club, Canada.......-........ Sobns0IsseeeNeoocKd 221 12. Wooden clubs of Dakotah.—National Museum.-........--.-.-.... 221 Sear Uibevclulb:— National: Museu Messe meat ===) et)ataeia) avai laeyeie oil 221 14. Haidah war-club.—National Museum ......-...........----.----221 15. Haidah carved war-club.—National Museum-.-...............----. 222 16. Mace from Paraguay, Argentine Confederation................-.. 222 17. Shell-headed club from a Florida shell-heap.—National Museum... — 222 18. Stone manl from British Columbia.—National Museum.....--. 2... 223 19. Stone maul of Alaska.—National Museum....-..----......-..--.. 223 20 Maormstone club wNe ws ealan (tessa jase nisiiseemeicieeenceeeectccciescn Teco 21 S6ONe MAWLOMPATICKICeSsossie sea ei cinie = ies eS creciaeieie ee eisieteile ie 223 22. Stone mauls of Missouri Valley Indians.—National Museum. ....-. 224 OMPATIC KALCO SLOMGM AU aera ceraeein = alee ets eee Seema eeteeleeiaros< 224 24. War-club of Apaches, Arizona.—National Museum ..---...-.---..-224 25. Throwing-stick of Uganda, Africa.—Egyptian exhibit....-.....-225 26. Niam-niam hurling-weapons (trumbash) ...-.....--.-..-.....---226 Jie DOOMEeraAN Gs OL New COULD Wialeswcrmsascecteasseses sacciceeecisscs. | Hoel! 28. Australian throwing-sticks, Victoria ----..-----.---------s---.-s227 29. Boomerang and Moqui throwing-stick.........-.----------------229 DOAN SALOON ab SOUUN EAS CLAN Aer mee senna caciapatoeayaieciscisis seiajos« 229 3) Navajo sling! —Nabional/ Museum: s-ce+ -qo.seclyeeseecesess-ss-<. coll 322 AhTONWN GS -SLOMES PROV 15,5 stele yes es Se a= Shales) atsiavels s/s ln lototie's(aie wis cleieie 232 33. Bolas of Paraguay, Argentine Confederation ...........--.-------233 34. Bolas of Argentine Republic............ Be amie Se aise sani sees 233
35. Wooden axes from Australia, New Zealand, and British Columbia. — 235 36. Stone spalls for axes, Clarence River, New South Wales.-......---. 236
37. Maori stone hatchet, New Zealand.............-. J ajalepeinie aysaiateners 23
See LONE) AXES OLeAUSELAaraNGeAMeOL CAs seis ejeie a2 .4.ca + 6islwi «iniejeiciokelelele 237 wo. stone adze (unmounted), New Zealande so. 55-2 -..n<c2cl<cncmence 239 AQ MaorivadzerNewsZiealannncsissce cece Ne ceisesiscic ais eie a eeisonareneee 239 Ail Stoneauzer sandy lchwlslandseseereie cease sciences seen cen eneeee 239 42. Shell adze; Saint John’s: River, Florida......----. ....-.sisss cesses 239 AST SEN lp WA l= aROm eee oie aG ene o is a) bain Sais wie coals seaeeeaeceeaeese 240 AGS SLOne ad Ze wie GIS OMN Wess re)s ciera\= = Syatalo mie sewn lean tomineeniocemiaisie 240 45. Eskimo ice-pick, Nunivak Island...........Sayesielecateseciesscee 240

<<<Page: 593>>>

A Srupy OF THE SAVAGE WEAPONS, ETC.—Continued.
Fig. 46. . Ice-pick and skin-dresser, Siberia... --. Stone adze, British Columbia....-..... ~ Stone axe of Mozambiquess=---see2ee -= «TONE ARE Sasa seein se) sapiens nee einen ete . Axes from Indian mounds, &¢......... Double-bitted! perforated axesiseoeoes eee eee eee eee » Eskimo adzes) o-ta-cecis isos sopieicweyee . (Greenlanderisindzeassemeseeeinsee ect cee . Indian adze, Haidahs, British Columbia
O1 Ot Ot O1 O11 On SONaAnS ; ‘
SMe 92. 93. 94, 95. 96. Sie 98.
Eskimo ice-pick, British Columbia... --
JiaMaANeselaxGnin = sets eee ee laeieeats Bechuana axes, South Africa ...--.. ..-Battle-axe, Angola, Africa............AOL OAM POA sam erect e recesses
Dagger of Balonda, Africa....-.-.....-
Sword of Angola, Africa: =<... ....-----
WAI Aa Ss Saseesecotaeaeeee Som sao Looe
eee ee ce wens eee eee cee cece
we eee ee ee ee ee ewe ee wee we
. Elephant axe of the Banyai, Zambesi, Africa--.---.----...------. Axesiof Eoypt, India, Mexico; andy Yucatansocces alae) se onion e . Axesof the Philippinessss.-—ss<s= ee 3. Casse-béte; Dakotahee.cece .<eons een . Halberds, India and Norway..-.--.-.---MINOLWOClaniaXGS aoa cee seieeee ene tet 3. Iron tomahawk, Dakotah......-....... . Obsidian nucleus ana flakes, Mexico ..............-. Basa eesore . Obsidian knife, California........--... . Greenlander’s bone knife ..---...-..--. Bone implements of Greenland...----... . Eskimo bone snow-knife -.-..-....... . Indian knife of native copper..---.-..-. . Native copper implements, Wisconsin . Copper weapon and steel dagger, British Columplaessseeseeeas . Ancient Roman and modern African Imives..-=..---.-.--.2-.---=< 76. 5 ANY Gl yeeIe AG Rages caeoos cade aSee 5 viet ey Gleyouyeie Sok eae soda Goacseaace . Blackfoot scalping-knife ---.-----....IROL StOMeISWOLO ere s-ice eaten sates ee . Sword of the gold coast, Africa ...--. -; . Two-bladed sword of the gold coast, Africa ...-....---....-...--. 83. . Sword of Mozambique, Africa........-. . Cimeter of#Mozambique, Africa .....--» Monbuttoo cimeter, Central Atrica 23 --senscoclase a eee ae wieaber of Soudan, Atrica, oa=-n== seseeme . The parang of the Malays ..--......... 89. 90.
ewe wees = eee eee te ee ee eee eee
wee eee tee eee cow eee ee ee eee
ee ee
SwoOrdson ne ep PINS see teeter eel ee eee eee
Norwegian two-handed sword .......-Spears of the Philippines.............Australian wooden spears. ----SS OORE Oe
wees cee ewe eee eee oe ee tees
Australian wooden fishing-spears (leisters).....----.-.-----------
Maori wooden spear....-..-.--.--.--<Maori spear taiaha kwra ........----.Stone spear-heads: 22222 --:-22. .22ac5eBone spear-heads and hook, Greenland
ee ee ee

<<<Page: 594>>>

Page. A Stupy OF THE SAVAGE WEAPONS, ETC.—Continued.
Fig. 99. Wooden fish-spear, Makahs of British Columbia.-.....---.....-.. 268 100 Chookcheemish-spear, Siberiaassss-ssee soe aeees es eae a-ose ee 269 101. Seal-spear of the Chookchees, Northeast Siberia. .......-....---. 269 102: Whaling-lance of Alaska Eskimo =o -..¢ 222 222 se-\2emmse esas o =e 269 LOSSsWihaline-lanceot Greenlandeesssae= ase ee see nese eee ses ae 270 104. Whaling-lancexor Greenland Eskim0sessos2sesses ceeieciceiscee 270 105. Lance-head and seal buoy, British Columbia -......--...---.---271 106. Seal and fish spear, Kodiak Eskimo, Alaska........-...-...-.--. 271 107. Shark’s-tooth spear of the Philippines. ---.-.-----..--.-.-..----. 272 1085 Iron'spear-heads of the Philippines --2--2 s-.45--5---4--+--s-eeee~ 272 HOO MRE AentO flim Obes sesisas semis eee Se eles Saleen tee cleric 273 MOw rid entiotsunese hllippiness esac ae eel eee aoe eee aces ye 78 ER S PearsOmeLimMOleeeneseecmeacsnicke sees cccee coe se poise eee setae ss 273 TAHT ASSOU BIS mie ote ooo ee siti c/ sain weal cial Jade iaariaata’s aos mod Liss Coppersharpoon-point, Alaska) sc eee = ac oc seasons sereeeeien ince 275 4 SHish=spearwhropishersbaya Skim Ove seas = 28s eee ee ee 21D) 115. Salmon-spear of Passamaquoddy-Indians.......-........--...--275 LG Norwestanyhallberds aces o = aio scie som Se aa se eiei=.ane) -=/aebe cies 975 117. Spear throwing-sticks, South Australia -..---2.2... 2-222 weccce 276 1182 Throwing-stielk: of Victoria, Australia: :2 25. 202-5. 22-5622. oss oe 276 LO PATishraliant-throwanasul@keesy-ceia taro eters ae sei) osisha os a aleve oe 277 120. Throwing-boards of Northwestern Eskimo .......-...--.---.---277 A121; «Zalu-shieldiof.ox-bider ct. Sete ok ei eu hoh A 8s SoCs eos oe 278 IO Mia tshieldko A naola is eee ys a eee oc Sollaeky chou nae ce 279 1235 Meathern shieldiot Wirands,AtiCaese 2c e oe ee eos e esas 279 OAS Wroodenyshields CentraleAdri¢amscs-a." sens sates sea Hae ae eee 280 125. -basket-work shield, Uganda, Africa wsoneu 2 soe ee ee camen ose 280 126. Monbuttoo wooden shield, Central Africa -...-..-.---..... Fis aa 281 12/7-avVoodentsnieldeoiguney Malang) see sa aae selena een = ese cement eee 282 12BraWoodensshieldy Dy alkslofsbOIneO. sebas saenisisciesse ba eeciescemeee 282 29s Leathern shield -ehrlippimemiislandss.22>2 -se2e se. cee sence cicees 232 TOS Voodenshieldsrehilippimresissses asses acini solee esate esas ternal 283 Tie yWwoodenshieldsiofihe ehilippimesy= cesses ae-e oe eeeinee es sea 284 132 basket-workeshiel dof Siame-ns.4 secces session ace ems tecce sacle 284 133. Chinese shield of basket-work (inside) .----......----.--5----.-. 285 134. Towerang or parrying shield of Australia -.......-......---.---285 135. Heilamon or-war shield of New South Wales ..-...-..-..-----.--235 186. Wooden shields of Victoria, Australia.......----.%.-.....-----. 286
ss 137. Iron arrow-heads of Angola, Africa.....--.------.g--------------evs Beh, Qunhyare Ge Deal, IN bBGRy Copa een Sar son cCeebodsoe 505 GoGG0O SODGOC 288 139. Australian bow, Queensland (male bamboo) -..-.....--.......... 289 140° Tron arrow-heads of the Philippines. ----2 << 2020s == cuss 290 141. Chinese wooden bow ...--..-Beco esa ba0 Sae8 sae 2 cece seesee dese se 291 142. Sioux Indian-bow of mountain sheep’s horns ..-.-...-------.----. 292 143. Sioux stone-pointed arrow, Dakota .-----..----. d Boos Ca CouOeASCaS 292 144° Chipped flintiarrow-heads, Utah... 225-2 Se cscice ance sean 293 iis, ldsourn srakoyis, Eagerooll loo so oo ocboos obocus codced coodonbeadaces 293 iis, JEAN EIB ERD, BVBYONS cogccocodeod Dob codocodss vosESod.ods™ cosa aceon 296 Tei Ion eFeIe Ha! AROSE OV ie Ge penn cododS socom G6Co0 edna. codon 0 C6Gh OOoE 296
Te PANO det WAY.Woonco0 pepo cased coodes oped gcodde SooOsdDSUC 344 Ancient work in the vicinity of Ottumwa, Iowa ......-.--.------++--345 B. Mounds near Keosauqua and Pittsburg, Van Buren County, lowa...--. 347
S. Mis. 54——38

<<<Page: 595>>>

PREHISTORIC EVIDENCES IN MissourI, BY G. C. BROADHEAD Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. Ancient walled burial place in Pike County Kigs. 5; 6.Ancient work om Noix Creek ilies. 45 -teaedemooaeeraseae seni = Hig... Moundsiin) Clay Countyees= seer sesee= a hseee Ni ketrhiceses aetteexs Bigs: 9.105 Vaults in moundsin Clay County 52322. sos = ses eees ee = Fig. 11. Mound near Cote Sans Dessein
Mounpbs 1n MuscaTINE County, Iowa, AND Rock ISLAND COUNTY, ILLINOIS, 1B Yo (EGER © Nope IO MES ON ete ae ate ee eet
ANTIQUITIES OF ROcK ISLAND COUNTY, ILLINOIS, BY ADOLPH TOELLNER.... Fig.l Mound sine amp tone setters stele eee seas tei stearate
2; Tohead: Island:s2s-ssssst sone cascee cose eee ecne a nceclaseeetseee
3. Mound 2s casi ceccoJscssscscsscanccesaosss soeeectacece seas se eeiee
MOUNDS IN FRANKLIN COUNTY, INDIANA, BY EDGAR R. QUICK ......---..--. Mapishowinglocation ofmoundshe secs == seeiee eer ara eeei eee eee
MounpDs AND EARTHWORKS OF RUSH COUNTY, INDIANA, BY T. JACKMAN.... 1B Ts IV OCHO CHE TAMING 55545 cosas cess cosscd caso seSSes oNNOObS cOn6CC
MOUNDS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI, BY JAMES HOUGH...---..... . Fig. 1. Mounds near Black Bayou, Mississippi..-.....---. --.. +--+. -------2. Mounds on plantation of William P. Perkins ........-.-..----.....
MounpDs IN MOREHOUSE PARISH, LOUISIANA, BY BENJAMIN F. BRODNAX..--Diagram 1. Morehouse Parish..-.....---. 6 forets sy ajogertis cide ae cere eee ee elas 2: Locationof mounds ~o2scosecoc c= sceen cea ceee see seReeieessee
WamMpPuM BELTS OF THE SIx NATIONS, BY W. M. BEAUCHAMP .......-..-... Bigs) 1-105 Wampum belts=2-<)---es sss asae este ania aces neeeei amare eects
PRELIMINARY EXPLORATIONS AMONG THE INDIAN MOUNDS IN SOUTHERN FLORLD OVAS Te fey MIG KONE G ID, pa ess cass Stn bos Doo nob Ace Sos cossoa3oRC
Plated. Mounds on Aichaskote! Rivenaescavesece sees sees sseeieeet eee eee
2. Moundsjon Andote River... ...ea-neeocisenicels sae eee eee
3; Moundiat Ormond’s: Qstdesen cece mre cers eo aiepe ecie sieprsie eoseriemtn ets
4. Plan of mound atpounedin f252-5 s4-.52e4e 2 5o2---=eee eee Eee
5, Turtle-shaped mound ion Mon puhey jose. ara ae seme e alee eee
Sketch of Mound on Point Pinellos .......-....--Aad otdtas orte ees
6; Mound! aiyPapy/s! Bay OWE seas ae aes eee eae nae aaa eee
REPORT ON THE SHELL-HEArPs oF TAMPA Bay, FLoripA, BY S. T. WALKER.. Maprshowino location orshell=heaps) ecce seers se eee ee eee ate ire Plate Shellcheap at shaw SibOmt cs. eeeeec esse eee yaaa eee eee
ets nl Att) oe aerae Pee me racer Sob aae cs SSoUdecidob SSS Gconiodecscede Wiebke he Bi llbo ore oes oe oso cosees CooS6u HSnSos SHics coésicicbe cONSSs 3. Ground plan of shell-heaps at Shaw’s Point -..-----.-----.---.---4, Fig. 1, shell-mound at Bullfrog ...... .-....---...---. --<+-------Fig. 2, ground plan of shell-mound at Indian Hill ..---.--...-----
Mounps ON GIDEON’S FARM, NEAR EXCELSIOR, HENNEPIN COUNTY, MINNE-
SOTA, By HRANKG El. NURTHR soe cetee ete ileal eee Planiof: mounds esse. noc ssa ce saioare ce a ee een et oe aaa Sie ae tee Mounds’ at denserurie, Minn) sce. sees ace eeetee ee eee eee eee cele Earthwork near Sisseton and Wahpeton Reservation, Dakota -..---.-----Stone hammer from Lake Minnetonka... ......-...--AAS SDOe CoA Sash cabdot

<<<Page: 596>>>

Page.
ON THE PRESENT FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTIONS OF Prysics: LECTURES BY DR ERANZ) JOSEPH" PISKO= coerce nce secs seee cass Ja0deo odo aacucQEeda 485 AM PALAbUSh sas 3 Jog sso canal Soe accceeeslsccscceesseue a code cduadesasansaGns 493
Be Ho VON BAUMHAUER -s-.--\c+o~< on bébacaoRe obocoo GbeoHeaE 519 Fig. 1. Krecke’s metallic thermometer ..---. .--. ----<-----<« sooccoouda, ee Je aN CANTO ee meses asle seis ae lsiae AcoosaquoDse casens ce soSeso060 600 a) BRx 3. Part of instrument recording velocity of windand quantityofrain. 528 TACs Ome SISLeLIN Sap Pala Usha sasteciseleacetaciseisaseiecon eaectiseesieeeae 529, 530
REPORTS OF AMERICAN OBSERVATORIES: Mercury, observation of, by W. R: Brooks: .....cc-sccocccccncesecceccsee O04

<<<Page: 597>>>

a | poet 9 ¢ ys : we ee oi) a Te ST ee: F c es ’
oe W ope eo Sina wie rae) pes ia i {pene
tes Sata ed +2 as -
wah ek
4 ei bh yt. =
" bee j , Sue (Sr ac hae) or eee ese be SEK od ee
vp nia seni
i oe
5 @ ee 2e O ee a : co _ A ae “a =~ a ge ene .
‘ae ry ar Sit peal od 7 “Sa sa eee , NBO esan, Gos (orn aly ids be va De er pe i ei a j aanloas Caring Be kaos lin a Fie aie Je) eh, He ay ' Se Teen si ae 11) oipaielan leeds heath | Dh i iy © . * Sb Bf Ge yr 1% Tin 7
ye oars jin ott Pe yp Poa as, Rin
ts ee
aoe ‘yy
va e r 1 =
tay '
7% i)
i a ah si Ce
; (Mies Sr mat an stone ib : bute aoe ane ALselodathtya a pe a qnaes «eb =teha Panam .
— <seegeet~ at Agee oe

<<<Page: 598>>>

Page.
Abbot, General H. L., Corps of Engineers........... Apabeoacgss co6sce s00a C 495 Act of Congress for protection of public buildings from fire.........--..---. 115 to appoint an assistant secretary. -.....---...--...-2-0. 3 115 extending franking privilege to Smithsonian Institution-... 115
that minerals, &c., be deposited in the Smithsonian InstituUID) A Spo oS don Cod Db OBEOTOSHOPOSH CCEA OSE AEBGeObor Soca mcoure 116 filling vacancies in Board of Regents. ........-..----..----. 116 for erection of statue of Professor Henry.-...........-.-.--. 116 forsbarl ding NationalyMuseum= = s<ccccscele elem selene = 125
Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution and wherNational Museunaso eee aoe oe cece cnseta\sccccnenceeciesee sekia 115 AC aM Wiel, ANCHTOPOlLOGY: cas arse oes s/sciaa seacse cacses sacle eseccieciccre 435 on mounds in Spoon River Valley, Dlinois-.................. 368 PAUEICAM! POLLERY-pPresented sees see cowie ours at Me cit seecctnw ce ea ceeslseccesec 41 PP ORCLON OF OX CHAN GOS: mameeare ens alee anne is eis e's «lnin's.n bccies secieciceecaemecem 48 Alabama, Mica: DedSaN sects css sees ewe cs cose cccieeelssn-ciencscece senciee boos 382 PUA Ke ROX [] OLAMONS IN Me sete eaten eee cisacie se oe sone nalsciociecieee cosccics 42, 44 Mowe OLMS Olen OUUISKS EON eres sees eteca ae ceeerene coca oe secs 33 Aldrich Charles janthropologyiees =. sssl=-Geassess ccosciceeccceesssccecccle 429 Aleutian Islands, remains of man in, memoir by W. H. Dall.............--23 PBXANCEL way Wc ANUULOPO OMY in secs cosieeisca lait cislecoae sale se seleciciecm see cee 444 PML Eon Onywl ae ODSCLVALOLY aoe cise aisemet ceases cote cecceeces accckieeniesie coe 455 PULEnpPAGm Wee TUUNTOPOlLO Ns seen ataeeseeeeclce ce eectesectlescciscnsce caseseecse 445 Allen C pis, ant hrOpOlO pyr seacisccis sacis cc scisise aise se ise selec selscencesciecasicece, 430) AUIS Samuel, AanvhrOpolopvrys =tsassseces sense cnisine sctosec (damm eeiccc eee, ciaciecle 430 PUISLON MU WALd sITVESUIPAULOM aso ss asioees coco s\ecanien cic sslemicie deisel sais casita 70 AZ One Ole x pPlLOLAWOn: Ofses scp sae wane eatesie as ce mecicenice seecclescelnene AT Anchor Steamship Company, acknowledgment due. -.-....-..----..-.--.---50 ANCientiarrow-head factory, im Elorida sss. cea sce sons cee eeseieeee ane soeee 394 Pottery Composition Ofsssaesae “cess ase senses sascscacice no acieincieste 349 LOCK=WOlK, INV MASSOUNL> «< ssc.ncscse Sessa seiscccel esse) nscececscnceeees 35k ANG LOLOL EOL da, «MOUNGS/ONtomes seseea-nsacecses ee cen seco aniecelece 394, 395 jo errs@yn,, Joye) |S Gaal avo) sO OYA en oclae Cand eoed CoS eo Co eno OUNCE 0QGCMN Ohe sone 434 Anderson, William Gilbert, on mounds in Illinois and Wisconsin........---341 PUMORG War Sore y Mea nunTOp OlOLVaacaaclsasesceeaa saa elee ames sneme nine sccenans 435 ANIGHENWTE, 185 ID ky Ghoti obo) Olly 7 S86 Coco CGbO OO50. 5000 Been B56 MIOO EREe.eHoD osbe 445 Andrews, Frank D., on Indian relics from Schoharie, N. Y........---...---391 ATM ALEMTO UM ASM ASCONSIM-V1iciorciatorsicial sale mee sic cettnter see leieine elviseisiecicme ae .. 343, 344 resources of the United States, catalogue of collection to illustrate-the 30 Annapolis, Md., United States Naval Academy Observatory.......---.....-. 457 Anthropological investigations....-.. SECO CDOODo GUbd oOSdEs Dabo asso conO DCCC 449 ANntHTOPOLENY:= << s<)eanin\secivels cesses ca cinaclecwnice|seccnsicmwmce 450 Prehistoric anthropolopyposmaicceccieacessiesamaciscea calcein ai 450, 451 Biological anthropology scents ae sen cscs sees seeneelastasias een 450, 457 Psychological anthropology............--dbEDOdunesasocsac 450, 461 loipimalle yay see 35 56556 oc0500 bade sabt Ee {ao nooDod BdaSo bseoo" 450, 462 Linguistic anthropology. .........,....--..« Moechoonto eceecc 450, 465

<<<Page: 599>>>

Page.
Anthropological investigations—Continued. Industrial anthropology .--......sondéour Seon Sanoroc cosnes 450, 467 She 00) Of ae soe ecopis 2545 46 sere Se Se Seceawecccesisccces sams 450, 468 Science of religion. cc. «2s occ es clone sociaasslesscie see eeenee 450, 470 Instramentalitiesio£ research <2 <6. sccesstscessjeseseomeee= : 471 Society of Washington, meetings of ...-.......-......--.-. 64 PATIGMLOP OLODY jen secintels(steleisine sintelsinie se ieta iste ete reat ete eaieore tet aia oii ee caeie 38 TESOATCHES.-:~ oc cc ets es Seccen so saeecsicmacene nea seee re eee / Bis) publications contemplated —— o-oo. < sennncccesposeiaceeeeeeeen 38 ErqOONatOTS Ss Soa qegaoROGSd Bode BSdo oa0Gc onde Se tnande ooccec 38, 39 Appropriation Lor TeseaLChes.sa dacm qelsinciseeas oes see eeees 39 Indian portraits =... so=<cnsocs cowslsscccsce= se sjaccee Papo OSe 40 ad dios) to colech One casest= o<cle seis em etal eee eee 40 NorthyAtrican Pobteny, 2) ance nals cacics|Suin= satecinie aaicinsiaeeiasicens 41 Mexican! calendar ston@oono io sctecnie)'s0s (oman seieie sa a/oaa alae 41 Brazilian poOwberyi-2castes sls som\osp sien walss nates asec emeniesiae 41 New Mexican Objects)... c.:c2iccseccccin sees soeeessceeneesnese 41 prehistori¢iariicles from Huropes.scsselesane =e acieee eee eee 41 casts'of Indian heads. <<< nica seine ciomasmccaeceees carer. 42 Eman edsy ue) (CahyoUUEHOIN@s Gil) Gog6h5 GaGa choos ocondonsessansccsc 428 LAMSON) OSS S56 Sb e Sod eaGo50 pond a5D 0NSOON QUDGON ad06 band saSadcbnease 34
Amiilles MOImaSOL Gee ats ears seston lesen aie a ieniselena nine eelenie eines tana 3 Antiquities in Tennessee, memoir by Joseph Jones........---..------0--oe0 23 preservation of, in Denmark.........-.... waesiee diemjacpisianesloseese 299
(See Savage weapons. )
JNO DREADS) ike (VES HAVER SOD) AAS mean coon CoO boee Hd Co00 ddoson cand aocond conser 17 Appendix to the report of the secretary. <<. 2.6 ooo. eos wane cee waco anenne 75 Appleton & Co., steel portrait of Professor Henry.....--........ .-s200 «a--12 Appolinaris water, testing Of. so -c2 56 oso wicca aecscsins once nacieeesiemctace 18 Appropriations for ethnological exploration ..~~. ----2 seen coe ece ceeene oa = 39 made by Board Of Regents coe esse eee sea eer 142 by Congress for National Museum. ...... Sc o.e nisin cies nels meeaceie 121 Archpolopical: Bureau, Copenhagen. ...css-elcam— <-selelae sami ae L's sansine 305 Architects to National Museum Building Commission ....-....-..---.-------126, 130 ALFONLIM As yMUCUSITIN, | CESCLUP LOM O bye e= ener ele tees alee ain 33 Arizona, anthropology. .-----.----..... pee ee sates COO ee Hb ceae 428 White River Canon ruins des <oj<ses seine eee teeta sateen 333 Arkansas; “anthropology = ocisscnice secwsalos aces os Seclacc ans acento 433 Armenian history, request made..............---..Saselcwawal seunerneenaeas 59 ATMOLY DULGIN OG soe oe ea Segoe aioe nee aaipialsie annie snisnicin= i aie Enis eet 62 collections mtoredn:< <<. 6 coe0.caanels aainice eee eee eee 62 APPLOprTiIAtiON fOr = .i co csic cece eeceseercrspiocsaestseceeee nee 121 OXpenditures .. scccc..ccea, cn catenin ene ae aeealese coeieeeiemae 122 TECGIPUS) 52022 .coces cnnsce ss cncsenece eC eecesais aeons eerie 122 ALMSLrOnS, LhHomas, On, Mounds IN) WiASCOMSI Mee cles sees eee meealeneaeees 335 Arrow-head factory, ancient, in, Monda-s.--s4+ieesscicsoscabinese eee ences as 394 Arrow-hezds from mound in Towa... ss ssseeeceeoe ee eon eeeieeeeee woe dane 346 front Motiid: in Wonisiang. .2s. -<sses scene clase eleeenees sees 388 found-om Minnetonka Make’: o.-ccs sesimeneeeess someoricee mele =e 427 found Ht Schoharie, IN. Wi. cc. «clo o case mesee odes eee eee. 391 in BHCMARGaD in) lOwa: cu. oo ase nenecospes taser eee 347 Arrow-poiats it motigg) in TMhnois --.... cc Ses once cscceet nae epee eee 369 pockets Of, Todnd ooo ono coe one ee Mae eee oe 362 primitive manufacture of, on Savannah River...... Saecwamecne 376

<<<Page: 600>>>

Page
Arsenic acid for anatomical preparations ..............--.« sewaicsgiseatee cans 33 AE DING ANG |ADOTALOLY aos side os Sejos\= awinsei << = Satine apes eshe's sciae -ays's 62 Arteries, reparatory inflammation in, after ligature, by E. O. Shakespeare... 26, 24 AT LOS SO eb can GOTOPOLO Mee emo eet see ic eae eae oe ei eee ences om Scheie 435, 438 AiClalapropaca tom Ofetish= seen teem aan Sanne y eaten een isie cise selcinc ass 7A ASD UL ey MOs. MMOUNG abe cio naaiccnacs wa sepa ce ait sae seierisioee See tee ean snlses « 355 ASHES FINEMOUN CS UNU LOW aie 8 essere se oe eras nice yaa ante ae nee eae 344 Assistant secretary, appointment of, under circumstances ...--...-.---.----115 Astronomical discoveries, telegraphic announcement of -....-.-...---------19 Atkins, Charles G., assistant for census work of Fish Commission.......----75 in charge of Fish Commission stations. .--...-...----..-73
PAG KIMSOM MC MAL eg ANU NTOD OOM Yee ae see reas Sale eee ae ae aer aaa 435 Atlas Steamship Company, acknowledgment due ....... ...-...---..-------50 NUR VASOSe ED latis.MISSOUTI, MOUNASIOM 22. -,co0neiasinniatone cous cece ociae cee 355 AOC ApH IS He O OMMISSION WOLksabess)re cere e ene cis cieciniec cine ee cece ese eeanos 73 PUPS ORIOMESCHONADIE SENN IY af eniee atc ccc cece ne aclels Ons oceceeniese aye Napanee 391 Bache tunds account Of... css sece vacce Be fev dave ola eral are tera riage ae een aioe eres 298 Banleyea © tpuall mex) OLALIONS see scretectepe eit aera esiae Aa aeeee sem Sete ene 45 Hee yee ERO. Ln ANNO OLOOY, 3 aseyae sins esa.ci<.cojos ahem aaa waeeeteaecione 441 Baird, Prof. S. F., Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries...............--.---qt Directoromsmithsonian Institutions... -222 25-226 --seecee 4,5
letter, introducing James Stevenson..................-..42
member of National Museum Building Commission -...-.. 126, 129
IRE] OPEL, UO) LOLORNRGL OPE INGERATMINSS Sechtoocededacds caeucedecede 3, 11
lebter: tol Concress|-aeeoeeee ease eee Saaccmecoaetesee eas 3
Aker nsaC dalle bo POLO RW asema aaa eae cies seen = ee ere sion creates seciestose 445 all OleaWry Eten AUCMTOPOLO My meee ea scerers sala = ore ence See eee ee cece oametomes ‘ 440 LOC MVVicpELeng UH LNT OP OlOGYA ways sesh cites see cinee ce ince foie meee eealsia sere 432 Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, acknowledgment due. ....-.--....--. ---0----« 50 Baltimore and Potomac Railroad, acknowledgment due.....-.---...-..----. 50 BancrofvsHesel.., lent WlUsprablonssereceosAcistees/sceces oo elses ns oa weneiserecceee 24 Band ellen cA be enOnCe Ot anal ClOMb) OLAVO) sc aniemecine -acmicmiscivisiel=nem cece. 367 ATLA MV Vie RANLU LTO POLO OW: siciee ay acsisiseciaiei= ie cia tsi a asiajoe (so cmeisy says seeieeee 431 Barber, Mr., medallion likeness by, of Professor Henry --...----..-.-Ree Oe 12 1B OC OTRO deseo bAskigas Sod Boab onbooC Oe Sab Ona Sas DHo sem aaanoo auoEoSon 34 ISAM AT ees Mobs ecieera ais cis ecisascieis ove, ssiee cieidelsiscinjocinm/ als clecalsis veto sani ele ce eae 476 Barnard, JG. intermal soracture of the Carthy: 22. s.<ecccces sccoas oes oa 26 ibarmess@barlesyi., albhropology, .5 co-cseises teases) cel cee snc) cate cle ie eet 434 ISAIAH) ILI, MAMIE dep eeqneaobobocd soScoNSbs0e80 Bede dsoode S550 once 457 BAOLCUUMATONUT Ke 2s anes cisis ssicisrincc.cesinieeiaenesscis\sisic s.caleisanelisic sit meete ice arate 458 Barton, ciophion’ ANTHTONOLOMY: ass sector secivem cei shisies css ei=c[soucisiee nicisioe sisis oe 428 IBAscl@mValCal INStIMMUG\(acces oe mone cctetsieciinier sine. oveicliaje Sseiaeiae osha ier sisieisicle 497 DANSE LU MICH IIGs AN LULO POLO RY: <2 oscil ao a ecielaciee ete leisiereleinye eins cia) aera ee Nei icles 431 Battachiarandureptilia, checklist Of. 5-224 seselese eee cace saceese jee esiecee 30 Battle Creek, Mich:, hich school observatory.< .---.. 22.222 o22c-+ cece s2-5 = 200 458 Baumhauer, E. H. von, universal meteorograph ............---...---.-----519 VVC Want ase OUNOS Allo. = =.s\cose sae ee elena etstsieleieominateieisinis s(e\sisie sisis <iais 410 [obalh, lel irtra inde oye) Cea ee RARE aSe AP a Baas RAR ABn GaodnuGone ° 433 liemGl dis \Wepeicul ize to) ty-0 ae BREE pec cee Re RARE AA ACC aRE Soo cep oebecd 432 Beaman, D. C., PTI NO Noo ye RS SEB Bho cbc6 cebod Cota CoOaIns seas eASugtonoD6E 431 Cos heahaey nce) Ney earanol:| 26s ceeds Sonacekeleces sasceouEasasac 346
Ecce Pre Pile gS USCA oc oa) ieee se eee alee mae eer ieeiane Uoenins 5 CALACOT OL [CDR OLOD ya eeeiace ee cet cine e cacden is cieieiciatec(eie'els 69
description ob fiShegeacseteeiss ol rescael sation eine sericea. 32

<<<Page: 601>>>

Page
Bean, eral. E.,sresearehes, SHCS == hemes ater reise e = —else ee see eee ee eee d 7 Bear Creek Hlorida, shell-heapion cans s-tes=s<i-= sa slese ee ieee see eeeaaee = 419 Beardslee, Capte ll, N., OxplOrations seceseneeieesiea= sl rineeeie Seen ae see eee 44 Beauchamp mW. anthro polotyenar ner eesene === ec Re == Fae ae sae eee ae 445 on wampum belts of the Six Nations -.--.--...-....-.... 389 Beaufort Harbor, North Carolina, fishesitom----<-2-=== =---24--s2eelsoe=e : 33 Beauyoisb., translation Dyecoem mente $ ee eae tees eae ee ae ee ene eee 299 Becks Gazetteer, noticeiof anclentiwOtka--se)sse= sole ce sao eae eel eee 351 leavin), Wading 2 S555 ceboos case se Noe ceooSe SoSo BOSH Sonos SSmeto soSens cso6S+ 477 Belding, L., list of birds of Central California ---...---. ---------. .-.--.--=) Bozo0 Belgian Government prize ..--. .----------. -2 «n= wan nee nnn ewan 58 Belknap, Capt. George N., furnished mollusks ........ .22--. .--.25 s-------n0 35 Benton, Thomas H., respecting human foot-print .....--.....--.-----------358 Berrer’s Station, V0.) MOU T OS abe eit mea ete ete eer 355 [stereo QO ARNO, 655506 co6s65 Sosa oseces SIS0eu Sosses aeb895 9S8s09 5895 Se5Sac 497 Bermudas, catalogue ob tishesiOf: the=-se amen r seen == oneal ee tee eee 30 Bethel's: Camp eh londa moun dsiatees ene see eerie esse eee eee nee ieee 405 Bibliography of the fishes of the Pacific United States ..............---..--31 Biddle, Henry J., anthropology<.2--.20-=.--s¢ 225: eo n=5 ene ae ae eeeee 442 Bio Bayou, onda, shell -neap Ome a emae acm ae tere eee ee eer 419 TBtUML, Wie We secd bose cooe cone coos basses so 5 a50 bbe Sod SOS 5a cdeSor soUSsa0.5000580 479 Bird, John H., superintendent of Museum building-...------. SADA ISSA Oawsee 139 TE TRE SH oA I IKOGNES) O o Sb os (ao eibosoodocnmssop sedoueacon Sede sooo Hasesondsesee 33, 34 in«NationalMuseums... 22522 the cesses sccceeue seers toeteses = calles 67 onCentralCalhtornia whist ot vbyslabelGino ener. se meeeseeeee sea eeae 32, 36 Southwestern Moexico2 22 i et22s.t2e2-eo eeeeeee eee ere eoeree cee 30 mesearches.5s2.s5+cess etch. ccetee seeeeeas a eeeieeoos apie eee eeeeee 70 Black, J. We, anthropology: -a-sessaeree eee neces hese ee aoe ciese cee en eeee 432 Blacktond ss BiG. ON iON SI yee saree eae aie te eee ee ee 68 Black Hawk Tower; Dl, mounds near (2..2..c-2---5-spees sare ae aeere eos soon Boardiot Regents, execubive committee Olea. -sse-semate= se ences eisai iat 117, 142 JOUTMAMON PLOCCEMINGS see cciaci ee ee ieee Se eee eee 141 appropriations ype asea cseee: eee eee meee aaa eee 142 MOSbING Of cS-s os Hees eeesle eae ec see oe en eeieels cee 119, 141 VaCaNClesiim... cS. = ccc eee soe ee Cece cates caieme sere 116, 141 Boca Ciega Bay, Florida, shell-heap at-..--..-..-.....-.-..--...-.--f2nicie Se 419 issn (Ce bls. GIB S a3 poss sc ndisoda abo 5aSb6S5 HAGUE SEH SS5Gs5 seG55h S555 5 moVskep-e a Hho IpRo NOI? Base sosooo 2956s SaaS nba soo Koeaeh ess = 476 translation iy )-~=. --22-sce o-oo Saco ts ose selene 577 Lefont, TMP IE hs nail OlaeAy 66 aoesos cece cede dooneS Sens Shans Beers cose . 442 Bones found in mounds ny WascOns Ne. sees eee nee eee 336, 337, 338, 339 from Mounds Mw IMNOISessetee see ee ee ee cesar eee ee eee 342 IDK CNOA UT KINA ON ke se sees case des Soo HoSO IS BaSonoeeSSSncoSasacescod 345 found wnishell-heapsmm LliMOIs= eases see sess eee ee ier 370 INNIMOUN CNOA MUSC Abi C.p lO Wielete ae y= ele a alee eee eee ele eee 361 human, from mound in Louisiana...-...-.---.----BPA Senos ba PRI A 387 Ofanimalsinysiell-heaprim Towaessees aes ee ee ie a eel 347 ofdeertound inim ound amen Min O18 ee eee sree ae lee ae ee ee eee 370 Bonn: Universitys ODSOLViatory =. ane ie ieee ore eee 498 Booker Creek, Florida, shell-heap on-........----..-. ----).---=,-------+ eeiocs 419 Boone County, Missouri, mounds inion son conan amine eee = atte oie leet el ein 355 Booth, Hon. Newton, Regent... 2. so ns no ndaeiodde nag Stale oe em nee eye appointed Regent... oc. .o octane aa ces ee eee 13 Borgen, Dr. © ooo 2 2s cee cece esieeve alse eee ee 508

<<<Page: 602>>>

Page Horrellyadiscovered Planeti.( j5cc.'s osicioc as dessseloses cose jo Doe esoenheare 22 BOW ISHN Viey Me gan ChTOp Ol O ye cee clemeoset=iclege eee eeteeeee tee aeicos t= aaa = 430 DOWN we pINOUN ds OnMaAndslOfa satecwepacseicseteateice stems seete sae csc sists ie cicis ics ar 341 Boyds Omils pan vhHTOpolo ny as asare slaitaoyacin tats speteteiseray seaeey Seieetomiee je cteie ots eas 433 Brachiopod atin dex G0 rca ates tas cis) daar Sores wisrwiojatae ot sate soeiaiste seer ee sees seis 30, 31 BTACH Ga Vier ARUUTOPOlLO MY Asee ac lott sats os asin tole alee eee eae eerie so = 442 Brackett, Col. Albert G., on the Shoshonis or Snake Indians. ......---..----328 Bradyasphotooraphioh ErofessOM Men tyr. -ose)earere cele st astiseoestess onet eevee ae 12 Brathy. SAMUS AM LATOPOlLO MY cesar oa} fe loisraret Satatarclsiotnint je mate ta eects eicn= 434 iBransfordeDrsy collected) Shellge soca sia ss jp jeiciewiesociswtel Sos aici ce ee seeee oe 33, JO
Ise WK Simla Nolen Be eo Soeo boon Shoe coneobob bneb eobinESa cade moo55C 45 Brayton, Alembert W., contributions to North American ichthyology--..-.--. 31 Pah OO free ETE GMT ONO LOL yierersttare tecteteTaialalaclala]o ain) oisio a aePa cs iaisotnaeeiaaina Siac 429 Brazilian pottery presented: 3-12-22 222--s-<. iastskod Sane eetame oes eos 41 TSReGhiGliia, Dis WINES E CAA Senor GOoe SOc c CSCO OR Saree Cer OR eEReAaniSe eno oeacIrCee 504 BreslaueWnaversibye O bservalonyis a-2\snasco! Sewci-o-miss oe occ e eee cae e cece ees 499 Bri ck=WOLKeImyMiseum bp UU CUNO sy jaan lacs set eisia = sce tava stalteie sie eis cis epee se 134, 137 DISS. Isl Se OU Ray Gone ce Been sob Gas Cabot CESOOSE oes Seay Unoe Laon beEoccrc 445 Broadhead, G. C., on prehistoric evidences in Missouri.............---..-.350 Brodnax, Benjamin H., on mounds in Morehouse Parish, Lonisiana..-....-.-386 BOO Ksyar Ness OWSCLVALOL Ys 25 soc) acters Ss sisiieisiSon same ese ye ecw =cee 460, 461, 462 Brooks Mrs Maryehy sat seas shesacte se Se csce cies cee mnie cia cclsisiee Aeecsieysece 483 Brooks aWilliant RODELbE As. ssssoc is secioescmaacs weecec cee ces ccismacicoze ecoece 483 roolcvilles and pmMoOundSiMGarrqsacsiesse ae = oss saeic ee oceisie sla seein coe see 370 Brown, Alone) ineuta Commander Un SaNe.asose aanecleanses eee eee eee 457 Brow George. farm of pmound Oncaea cces sasccsssceeencisccceoescsss cesene 376 Brow Mee ames lands ot pmound/ Onsscsa24saselascsice ina ecclesoe cee ace se ceeeee 375 Pena S Me mt CLOTS ao Sa soon a case shee o dacs csceaisdac'sis/aioaescse ee). seebe 5 Assistanbinmvherpetologypees eee osisseac cs see ease eee eee 69 BLOW A pos rey COLE. <a ersta c= Seiste scis| s 2k'ss ac jels se ecaaee ossntcteiccse sossee nase 5 IBipIShTS, JRO CO Copesooe ShoRES QUaU HOS DSO ab OC SnOUSSciG PESO CBE con Seno FpaUEnacSEn 502 Bruner, Lawrence, anthropology. <=25:--2-..-222.--<-5 sees oad enmebe Remain 430 Brunnelilge: He anthropolotys. =. seecsnsotscaqe seek eoee soe e masse cseaue 430 Brunnery) sb yanvhropoloeyincs sae e204 ssc nnlssieis sj sasseecisccecteceee te eee 446 Bras wee pmounds onwlands) Of sssscae saaisicic sins soso eneclerceeaclese echo saeees 370 IBrusselswRoy al’ Observatoryisasec<<cccscmcivecoee o5ss1o= oo ee ShSRs eels eee ee 499 Buchanan Tock .anthrOpolov yp cscelens 22+ sae -e wasn sscices sess sel se cee eee 433 Bucksport, Me., Fish Commission station at....-.....-2.20. ..----.----.-73 set alOpNewe © DSOLVaAuOl yes cscssis sacle sel se ste se cis sinte salam erator enteel 462 ImMlabin? 3d Sono 6anec0 ebO0ND Cobb0O OmpooY chad poUuae ConolonoS sodeSo Secblensede 61 Tidy DRONES Cesc oode dono dod Cade GOSC DOU DORSOL od 26beeo HobepoosaT 61 WINS] DROOL CKO OHS on 0000 dooSte GS000d OC ong nQSBaClsadd acne apace osaESe 62 LAI CORR e055 caoc00 SouNSd dodinen coppiconc. agen 65500 cana sé00 coea bebe 62 OR OOWSES 5 capt Sonco aousoS Secs CHDO OOO COE SES 2AGH CSCO GODS aadQicSor 119 BolletinsiottnemNvations Museum: =2.ase sseece cscs ne sal eeecettes ena === ae ee 29 Bulltrop. Plorida,shell-heap at.-== <<< ssc. «cme eneeasenierem ans oesa cous 421, 422 Burial mounds at sohn’s/Pass; Plorida s+ s--\scls ossicense cs sooses selec cieecoee 401 Ieee County elllin ose. sacs scelacl-e sean e ee eeree cee ersten cee 367 ibe, \WWantste@ rete 6 5555 conn pecConoCOD oT Sbbnned Scodbeandéeadocee 4 343
NEAL QUINCY; Wl osvscelcoclsssciseoasboss ces astra a tesenteees 341 Mearisaxe’s: Mloriday-socsosscees esse et ese sinciene ee Sobece Sees 399 Buralplaceinvbike: County, Missourtosscascuaaascstsace st sesc ae neece se cars 350 lpsmm IIS) al TOUTES oe eae Hee goe GOGH O500 COOS0d CO SODISaSOBOROE SgcSoDeb odonee 362
Done) SE Vee eS ee p PCC ae nOo OEECOOoe S52 BOGCICE CODE LECQSO CONC Aahieddscdc 437

<<<Page: 603>>>

Page Burr, Dr. R. T., on mines in White River Caton, Arizona...... J aopocG soeacie 333 Bart, C. N-, bustiof. Professor Henry,= occ. aeek nm oan is eel ee eee eee 12 Business arrangements, circular relative to... ..--..-.22. «<---2 esses -e0-e26 Busts of Brofessor Henry... -/.4se.css-ceet sce esas eee eeteaale ng teeeereeee eae 12 Butterfly, Bla. )shell-heap absnesseslsa-mee ese oa ee eee ae ae ee eee eee 417 Bymns. hb. VA., anthropology. -< scsi oasswcesowccesceaene sees se Eee 445 Cabinetiot Antiques, Copenhagen = aeas-esee eae eee ae a eoe ee eee 302 of Arts, Copenhagen <222. .ssess.ccc5 eeecsee nose ne eelcee eee 300 of Medals; (Copenhagen oe cepissicse 6 san oc =~ ecco ieee eee 300 @adle, C.; anthropology sc... -252> soc secciinaces ane nie dee celeie ees eee eee 442 California; anthropology ec eoss cena ee oe eessie seit = eae eee ee Sener 428 birds from). 2c5, «<saa0 a ccee obec one cence eeewere Se eee 37 Central, listiof birdsiofo sees seccea. see ee ese Aeeee eee cere one cee 32, 36 Jutchen-middensan': Sie sesjacs == -lsen in ae eee eee ee ee 33 Callaway County, Missouri, mounds in. .-..--...-.. bi Sonesta ste haat eee 355, 356 Cambridge, Mass., Observatory ..-...---.......-a lsat ote obese ek wears pees 462 Campbells. Me, anthropologys cease eeene eos eaee ee eee ener ame 441 @anada, anthropology sls oo. cha cece meeein os eeenes teen eeeeeete set 447 Candee, i.) C;, anthropology s.-i5-\s20 Soseieceejoocisse se aes ete eiee eee 431 Carleton’ College: Observatory:cjscacisccese ea eileseeiene cee ee eee ee eee eee 479 Carp: consignment: Of. =<: Jss5-icesoisseeies ce ee ceeeeeeee (aoe Soe eee 48 Carpenter, Dry Philip Ps monograph or chitonidea-s—-4) 2e eee eae eee 28 Carpenters’ work in<Museum buildings... si... <0/25=~ eos sees eee 135 Carter sin) oy-mMoundsion tarmiot aeeesee eee see eeee see eee eee eee Eee 375 CasesitornmewaMiuse unm buildin oe eee asease be see eee eee eee eerste eee 127, 128 Castiol Mexicanicalendar stone= 2-245. eeaack eee eseeee ase eee Boe e ee eeeeee 41 @asts, catalosueiot s-. (5... sccm es Sadece eens ere cee eet oon te Hees 34 of Indianwheads..6 =~ aes So ooo wae seo ae ae Se ee 42 Catalogue of collection illustrating the animal resources of the United States. 31 Catlin; Indian portraits .A5-25.4 see. sec teeracce eaters see eee 40 Caton, Judge, procured mule deer-_.................Se Seem eseuc 60 Cayenne; birds fromyco Gas. cafdec ase Shee whic Sener eee ee See eee 37 Cedar) Creek, Massouri, moundsions.-42-—-bese. ae eee eee eee 305 Centennial Commissions. £ 2. ...255) 6/5 osyewee sors nneeoaeeee eee ee eee 59 Centennial Exhibition, savage weapons at... -.----<2. cen -onween eeenee 213 Central America, anthropology ensse=ssee ise ee aaa eee eee eee eee eee 448 Cerous macrotis for London Zoological Society .. +... ..-..----.=------------60 @hapmamn. "TD; C a she eee esis os aoc isos Dee cere eee Eee 479 Chapman, Rufus) 2. anthropplocy 2-2. 2-2 2 5-2--.325 -saeteeeeee rene eteaae 445 Charcodkin mounds inlowaseteoncs soos sean cee cet eee eee Ree eee eee 344 MUISSOUPT 2cc.-.5 5 a0 cedbioonciocee tee eres DE eee 353, 354 from mounds in Wisconsin-.....échelle Seeeceewenepe enemas eeee 338 Chase; John. .anbhropolo gyn... cae cceceae ease ene ae eee eee eee eee 433 GhemicalJaboratory, -work/done ine... s-.csssees nese ee eeienee =a eee Emenee 17,18 Chicago, Il’, Dearborn Observatory..--..-----c-+ -<e =e ase be eae enone 464 Chitonide, classification: of: ;..4c< J2-+-< ke Soe eeeee See eee Eee 35 monograph of, by Dr. Philip P. Carpenter. .-.-/..5 2.) -<a0-=---28 Chitons, description of .5.. 2. Js-5< acer -5s ephecies beaeiaeseeeeeeeem eee eeeee 30 Christiania, Norway, University, collection of fishes.....-...---....-.-----67, 68 Chronological collection of the Danish Kings. .......22=-~cseaweo= -0s-e--ons 303 Churches, ancient, in Denmark, restoration of ........---...---super ees 308, 309 Cincinnati Observatory-oss-. -2ors-ee-5--)--96beees itrde ote Wewebsiniasesje-ceae 475 Circular relative to business arrangements. ....--.. 2... ---2+--2+ene eee 26 relative toexchanges'-\... <cnescseieee a ceo atte eee een eee eee 26

<<<Page: 604>>>

Page.
Gisisastone wc arc pial ang wlll Mreese sete ates ae ie steel cemeteries cisiewiepsine eile 366 Clackamas River, Oregon, fishes from....--. Bi seein see cet ee eee naieaiuie eos 33 Clark, Edward, approved plans for National Museum ......-....-.---------126 confirmed estimates .....-...-Se Rene COR CoC RCO ae Borne 71
Stark Heed) sAGGIDArib = tae to 3 4 33 adis semana Aaa soc sede mean eel 26 Mark; Martin. anthropologyso 2< 2 ssasceccssoe acs secisarssesiosae seers. << 430 Clarke; John. S.,,anthrepolopy:s sirs3sarcss5 dames ses sls tose eas Lec tee net ce : 445 Clarke, S.C.) anthropology ss < s<crsacersato sachs eliiasid sc cicrse oaeeeinwe eects cass 442 Clarkes Wie. pandthropolo cya seme one ecers clones ea ariiem see ioe motels we tnioeeinee 441 Clava CUNY, »MISSOULL,;MOUNEG AN. .onee)sccncicmcceescioe weciee melee ee eaten 352 Clear Water post-ottice,,Wla., shell-heap at .252)s5565 s.sseb oon cel tasecee oe 419 Bait andlo Owe pGOURGS MORE scree oo ocatope Lerch osm so wiroidocrn oaeennew eee 349 Clinton aNeey., Litchtield.Observatory..o3.12 Js --5-1soeeedesoeaeees sete see 465 Cluss & Schulze, architects to National Museum Building Commission... .-70, 126, 140 (Clipinigiey LeWoins IS RGR Ae Sas Seas Sone CaeneSeoe OCCE ba SESE hC Soe Sao Eos Gaseed 11 IRE g eM beater acto istice cls ocjcretinic cine cinlatsa meen ars 4,141
reappointed Regent ..o.6 so cisc oseeees eo nce wie ope oe 13
Codhsh propagation Olan). B oss gases ose ae nego owo cle Galoce ties Merce nes 74 Cofingtromumound ins Ul)in O18nssa0;2 sets se seeleiniwoe sarstereinia ce sada sccaeeeneae 342 Cofiman Jd, ANTHTOPOlO isa Sack erecinis a sieysiso sis sons sieiese sl Sesise eae cies okt 446 Woe TaNCHISCOMELEGsp LAN Oliaa es alison si seaaininia.s ce) = Seiniei cieininrsiclcie sisi oe steam 22 Cole County, Missouri;amplements fromiass< sss. s5ecsscelsces secece oce cole 357 Colon Norman san thropology: sacsscioscesie sonic assess cclnge Nesseendseeas ceccee 445 Collaborators slossiotpsss see =saro aa Sse paers cela ara otto Noslew Nae Sae Ss Jae eee cle 64 COLES pO DERE si s:2hsts He Se apse soe a einshoatetsiospaces ceoees eg BS a EUS UE Maen cobs 67 Columbia, Mo., observatory of the State University ...--...--......----.---. 465 Columbus, Ohio, observatory of State University..-.....-.....-------------. 466 Wemets discovered Amy SiO) sis eee ea Hee Wes eeciatne « ldaisactelclecls ale ameicat 22 Commission-for-preservationof antiquitiess2. 2. L. 2o.cee tse sees ses elses 300 Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, acknowledgement due....--...-..---50 Woncressordercdkprintins OlelepONbia sa os seis iaissia) orcieiore vin cares eaeinselee naan 28 sbatue of Professor Henrys. scee saeco sce soe seca ctane 13
Wonldin;WierAs, assistance Oftered by sasemcecee sa on clescieee ences seciona ace 60 Conky eanbhropoloe ye sss sda aaas ans sos ssetaleesias fees eereessiiaas 435 Contracts tor Museum; buildin ey. .cpia As jres ep tetisp sere atiaeet es Set oe 139 Contributions to ethnology, appropriation for -....--....-.---.-----------121 CXPENbUresn-s3o52faseoyecmaso ee ee cee eens 123
TECCIPtSiecesseee rn ssricateren cyrus eee era eee os 123
Contributions toknowledee «255 saeessssece Poi se ses sete nese 23 Contributions to the Natural History of Arctic America........-.-..-----.-3l @ook, Caleb,.on manufacture of porpoise oil-..1... ..222 5 .2-c25 seen sence 3 32 Cooper; J; -G:,anthropoloey so. = sso esses mincsemccesteevet bt sesde esses cls Uele 429 Co-operation of Fish Commission with United States Census....--......----74 of the Government Departments .-.... 222-2 -22--2 2222. 222 <-57 Ofethoulmstitutioniz==<-sasoaese sae cee eee eee eee eee eess 57
explorations in San Salvador: ... 2: .-. 2.220. .cscce 25 see tees. 57,58
Belgium Government-prize «5. s-. 0.2 ---25-26 bd BUSES Ee aay 58
Centennial Commission 222 rsssacssc.2tj ot Sele en ae 59
Armenian History <ssss5sssso5s< Hise oseasncsea Os bese s ees 59
Manito bar la branyec soos satis aaieates ci teteniae aicca ciceleaies = atenine 60 Yoologieal:Society of Lontlonls2sce sso saisan tee eel ateee coe 60
Cope, Edward D., check-list of North American batrachia and reptilia-.....-. 30 researches; reptilesssssesscae sd Bees eee ou tet ot cscs 70
Woppée, Henry, Regent. :.2-ccccccccccdcces sidan pogodOROS Soo ndiooodedaacgcd . 4

<<<Page: 605>>>

Page.
Coppée, Henry. reap pointed herent rere eels == meta ste aaislen oleae sateen 13 Copper bracelet on skeletons in mound in Indiana --.-.-..........-.-.....---. 376 Corcoran Gallery, account Of... 2-0 cress acemneae pape seeeeel <n eee eee 28 Correspondence, ‘aecount Of 2> nian eines eneeenes saci ee So =e emaie eee eae 57 OxUSuay Lisker is | OG yrs ose aoe Sosa soos secse seo ses a sacnene on g8 Ss 34, 36 SCO S AU OW ee pete ete ee eee alee ee re 36 Coie-sans-Dessein, Mo: mounds meatier cee icine eclsaa ae sealooee eee ete 356 Coues; Dr; Elliott; curatorof mammalotya ce sanearise eee ee eee 69 researches, American, DITdS |<. aise sonics oeeeeeeneeeaeeee 70
Covering of the flat roofs of the Museum building. ..............-.-.-------. 135, 137 Cox, E: T.; respecting human, footprint... 5-225 secie elas aioe bene aeime eee 358 Cox: Hons SiG oar eon ee tee cae eee eee ee tee. sas ete ae 1d: Cox, Mr: jshell-heapronlands\ot jim dlorGane sleeeiajoe sete eee eee 419 CramysylaG. anthropolocyasecemeec one elem aoe sacs eee eae isa ieee 430 Crerry. Ni, .ANboUrO POLO Caw ccmcisem seeiee oes -eneiieis tale eee eee ete 447 Crider yh. Ee anthropolocyecnase sc-ceieesiee seas semen eee eee 438 Crow’s Fork, Missouri, mounds on...--.-.. SOG DeC DEO OORONO COC HODGES BSOODO 305 Crustaceans, Whe VOICes OF -eosiooe) -naek coe nae k ec acess he eee ee 33 Cunard Steamship Company, acknowledgment due......-....-...----.-----50 CurmicryJiMe santvhro polos eee sence ee cceiseeine sien eee 447 Cushing, F; He jassistant c.-55-cc0ssyo-2.0cas sneees ae eee eee 5 Collaborators ceca ee ccns cceeesiss cies ete ase eee eee setae 69
OxpPlorazvions| D\jesemesene oss e eee sae eae eee eee 39, 42 Cut-stonesworkin Museum building ee -pce. coca apace ees eee nee eee 134, 137 Cutine ESAT anthropolocyge-s-eenessise see sea eeeesaeee sees 2 atl ete 447 Cybiom; notesiones-: st. s-eees ce = see Sone ae sole siseetsie nisin sianieeeseemane 34 Dacnis pulcherrima aureinucha, description of... ----.-.2---. -------0.---< 37 Dahlberg, Charles N., composition of ancient pottery -.--.-----. -----+ .----6 349 Dahlberg, Robert N., on composition of ancient pottery..-.--..-..---------349 Waingertiold He doelC. nclenkayesateear eae seeaeina ae alee seal aati 5 Dakota vearthworkun) oases eeeeseeecereee eee een ee seeeeaelesee eee eee 426 Dall, W. H., curator of marine and aquatic invertebrates -....--..---..----69 assistance mond eredu ya seee ee eae eee ee ee eee ee 29
indexato Brachlopodaere=—eeese eee eee eee eae eee eee eeaee 30, 31
MAGNE) ON Gao scamoou SoU5 JG OOd Soeso0s HodacH SUSeds Sno socds Sse6 23
mow, Lorms otamollusks) trom pAW asaya ete leet eeios setae aerate 33, 3D
Ma LOIN Soo55 bb0m booed Cato RaGSoC 4500 Dae Oao conSnS Sone sanNeso5 35
Oy | DISC 6 Baga go Sood GS GO58 SHOSHe COLES S540 SOSC a9 SoSsecce Sone 35
shellsitrom) Katehenmidd ens cscs cee see le cisisaaae eeateeiioeateets 33
Darbishire, KR. D:, assistance rendered by; <== -(-5 /.coeom esene rie eee =) =e 29 Davenport farm, Wlinois, mounds on <. 6c. epee ae ee ene 363 Davis, Henry, anthropology — ~~~ <<. < n ea geen n oo nena eee 431 Day, donne. anthropology < -<2 3--<.semceq san cme eae Gee eee eee 434 Dearborn Observatory, Chicago, VW) ooo esene ane seecges eee eee 464 Deep-sea cod fisheries, investigation Of .... ...2.. .cece ocean ennnee voce -=0-74 Deer-antlers'found inimound in Whois. |. occ sen ea ssieeecoeenee ere eee 370 Decre’s farm, Mlinois, mounds Ono. -o-. ---serene n eee nee e Ree ase 3638, 364, 365 Dellenbaugh, F.S., anthropology @--.2 ~~~. <= -sceenmeciaeestipaeee yas=ee 429 Demarara. OILOS MLO es see lse oeeee lease ete ase ap eeCe vewe cose wisesmanienes 37 Denmark, preservation of antiquities in ...............---ERE BES as oa8 299 Deposit of flint implements plowed up by B. B. Holland ........---.---.---. 357 Deposit with Bigrs QeWo oo occe, mda am os caren oe emia Sambacia eee eee 118 Des Moines Valley, Iowa, mounds in ...... wione ayue eistelcwaeoetnen BEE Asoce aoe = 344 Devens, Hon. Charles, member ex-officio ...... --...---o vones\socmeeeatninse : 4

<<<Page: 606>>>

MIS bitsch pel. Clenkcrecisateleecisise suisse css cess ssinvacisesieesicoce secislcsicessiecisa cis 5 Miptera,) catalocuelof, by Rv Ostensacken=o--core .sciscenssccc ss. sees ccc sce 26 Wodce, Ce landsiof, mounds! oneesace cece soe seo se eso eisiecee sels cio vee sccece 340 MNOMINICAPOITAS! Olvssoc ses cieses coos cece secelsis cea seme matinee cerisece soc cioces 33, 34 Donaldson hhomas, collection of minerals;s:s5 sc. ossnecaenclesecieseelos ce cose 69 MonanonsiO whe -Mstitublonlss oe sales saeco ecm Sele eicie ccemmneciminscies cs 63 TDM nine) (Od bh oa Aeso coos cecancobené booce DU OSU DOEeao docnescoescSscoasasoag 487 ID Tae thn When Ln bua? oA ooco6hoenh Sooo oaGad bosoce cobobd souaso sent 135, 138 Drake. Ja0:, anbnropolopycccscae fac so citoe cas enccosaseiscsecs seoceoeeasl sacs 432 WMrapersHenry; poses pee coe es ee eoe we cdecaa sdas cas acSecicssceccincssoces eaees 471 WraperyMirsessece ane sscce es Sa Setwece en iene Se cuee Sew eEee Leno ae secoescacee: 471 Wucksinomypsandwichelslands sesesssess cca = sss cce ss afee sees onset eee 36 IO Oss PeTOLeSsOL yy CONDEUDUULONS OYpele ce soos cists one Selelociine eae eeelaeecienacesee 69 donationsibyssscos. cscs ne coacc sa6c esses -scetescwee eres 42 MunedinswhlanypMoundsMeArsca soca sfc cocies sass Goes sce cee sour sc scence ee ee 399, 400 MUTED ee Ne eA LAEOPOlOCyrasesc(jacieae sare slo cisisla aces acle aeinlom nemehae elem 432 DuMlap moeymMour anthropology, ao dseseicoccinessiees oases cel eese cise cleleease 434 MisseldoreOpservablory <5 s2adse soso se nee os cao se see aasse sosialen Secisincceee 500 Dwight’s orange grove, Florida, shell-heap at ....-...--....---.-------+ 419 Earll, R. E., assistant for census work of Fish Commission....---.......---75 Harun OLkanEDAkObArae sasetslan coe eeenalesscac siaes) scccan sco acelcseeesiscreoee 426 WEE LIROO Qvale IHG SoG 5 5H OGeO Dobe.ConD CoOROcobicube Gaecan Seeauc 73 Haruliworksopehush CounuyIndlanweccasesececsese saa aac oelasee ome snacece 374 LARUE Aev bees PEOLESSOL is Oi Niclas ase 4 gnaa es soseicee saeclon Sceeisieettecess 490 Bicuador, birds) {roms ss.) -5.-/c-<< Dalefaieinc ioe sSenimiesciadcesecisocese eemereesee 37 PMCHEE LALO Penn IHOUNOS Biase a css. cos ss soenias os Sains sees sao ses 425 mdgvecombs Di Wi 2-2... Neo ue ses aselesadocussiweslswoass Seaside ees Seite sees 478 Edmunds, R. T., assistant for census work of Fish Commission....---...---. 75 Wards OSl Ale brete. se Les elseas cae <\sies Shae sees eae cee Sete oae a eee ees A72 Edwards, Vinal N., occurrence of oceanic bonito.......-....---------..----33 Helis MEN anchropolomymcceocise sce cosine alone crea oelenseinice ieee see aee 428 SESH Lak Woscsod Espo esoaeshos Saad ao6S SSS sho seotecsesedecolh6s Guan cesses 475 Eggers, Baron H. F. A., flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands. ............ 31 Hlectro-magnetic telegraph, account of ......---..------5----5esos ---= 28 EGON pLO wae MOUN CS NEA Aactessiciseel aie minereaia sie einer alent ete eteeecielesistcie stem ere 348 liz DOU Neda ODSCLVALOLYpas cis esas ec osioes eeclsieclo ms ocierels a cisies cieeeeeicnele 466 Bilenperper yw») TanvnTopolopygescealscscesiseoce oes sees eaise me eae eneee sees 436 PIO b POs sb Of tMMMIN EVILS so a's omiee claies len vwjweln Vowels <inicleeic so eisine= = ae 26 LAROE WOES) 5 4Gan coco DOG GOOD SOSSSO SOHDSS GODgaU bods sausKoseoesEc 26
Bis WoOLtliCWiranbhtOpolopyissccocisceies seam een ae aalesecineias oa aeieee aie 447 PP LyPHONSIMOUNAS wlOWayseee aloes scl secleteoeiel sacle oclcssclacsenctecieiscescae 346, 347 Emerson, Charles F .........-. pia nulsisinecalsseectoe mace sere cisie\wcisinaelaciciersisicte ote 470 BITM DLO VES MLOSSO Perieetterscsere oe oslo) oe elemisiaebene clesine sel aeieiseisioaeinise eect 64 Endlich, Dr. M. F., arrangement of laboratory ....-...----.. 2-20 ---.0+----17 ESSIEN) Ramo 956500 DAS OCOINOdO GOOdoeH 66d coccoe oneBSd bade 5
Curator Ofmineralopygeesasstsaeeeisa siete eeteaistecciee ice 69
Engelmann, Dr. George:J., examined skulls......-... 0.52. .esc-0 es0--) ---367 LNBVEGE IB, Dh peor en Qcad ne OCOD OSO0C0 QNO0 G806nG 650055 505655 asaGSc090 SHagD5oRgCC 486 Eps pol sO LaepLUV Ate OUSOLVALOLYAOLasestassnteciei= calsiasicieinleieinsicais ciere'sicineleinicinere 506 MyINAnkeweLoLessory Collection OL fiSHes sanaceer-mioss-) ok easels se) leicn = ele einieerele 67 Estimated receipts and appropriations ..2.....2 2222.22.22. oon ene -e ee 120 SUI ALON Oreo Wet GIN Onis lne a ose Saw eel ees ee eee a oteeetaiae ta alae a alo aya sicte 70 CONROE Je STG a ae ane 5 Se CneS BROS ar eS Soe ise So acoem) GOCE 39
PHNCHALALOCUS PULA 2.21 ss cass celciassileciseaiceeess aaeuenicvsciscaclccicce sss : 32

<<<Page: 607>>>

606 INDEX. Page
Hurope, prehistoric articles from < canes wos. vaueeslcdeelssas ateeseticene seeece 41 Evans, Samuel B., anthropologycocs.sssesdecs se sees sess. ee seule ceeaeaes 431 op mounds in the Des Moines Valley ..-...---..--.-----344
Hvarts, Eons W...A., memberied-Offi Gols ossecse \eiseie ote so aetsecietee ce selenee 4 Hxcavation tor Museum: building jaca. ese seesiase ce ecleenele see semen ae 133, 136 Exeavations, ancient, in Montandes.2-ss2css2see5 ssesce ce eelene see se cees eee 327 Excelsior, Minn., mounds neatsssascsesssossscadescse seen se cseclesces esses 422 Exchanges, circular relative t0-1ss07 tos sas ssos ssdscaoelece ees cess cee eae 26° APCNCIES cece ases ssousssicsssseesesscessssiedcccteccss cows scee 48
£POR ALCL rs earch er Rael eet Aalst aaa ate et aaa soe eine eee 50 international bULCAUS sss ss sass si ssde set Massel or celececlacesecln == 48
statistics Of; 4 asc secrssasald ieeeal ase omen nee ann ee oe nee 51, 107
of government documents sarc. roccs ee aeecese ose ecslsooe sees 51 OXPONSOGisss-ssadstowiscan are Sassosatdss Hous cte ces cascccesces 119 aoe Armory building: .2.5-(ss2-12-ssssssscss—s BS CGO SOO UD Ae mien 122 ~ contributions to-ethnology ssc. sssceen cos pose ere bee ece woneee 123 INSHbWHLON Ks Ss. csactre FAs s Ine eater dso secs eaten es dole ses eee 119
National Museum so). crasssatiric setetlel goes ooo eee se 122
preservation, of.collections! seccesee secs eee ce dee es ee cenelee es 122
for, Museum building 02 001 ct ee See ee 137, 138
PE plOrabiOns Cosy sucess a = atts alter ef aig ree eae See eae eee 43 Bis WRUNG lSOM as ser) teste elses els sat) lccicelecieeeslenceee snnieeisiciems 44
Dus Ms Morne as swicls ttt scldraciocets saceeul sewer cece sciacseescees 44
Capt. L.A. Beardslee nccts.coseiose sac ce cs ee se weelcceicene sees 44
Capt. Bailey ss rasatrro ee cows hls Secale ele clsciesesecmeuece 45
Steamer. ‘Richard: Rush?’ .sssa<sossosese Colslece ces ener oe voce 45
IDF WN 566.5 506600 bab o DOOR OD beeOOunDOs SobeaS boSo.boShon 45
cs Jeanette meesumecmocie wate seroee sesmas ace eeetosas Somers 45
18 Ds NPE COUN eB ee Boor S00 Dam OS0 S00 DOROSD GOSS HSSb00 SGGOE . 45
Professor JOrdansssvssaseewe cocs esos sot eco eee eae we es aasci ee seats 45
Tee eS oc gO U OO RCO DO DOIG DONBOO DOCH aU coo sc GponoSS 46
Fe yo bbe eS es COS e poet ton. coG5 GoD CDoObD GoOD coLODoDbOAHeeC 46
TERE NE i Ga ESI OOOO ISCO DONO BOO DOU. GLuD boecoceaness 46
Hi, We -Henshawiascndtatossesooteense sect he cemeee smrncieens 46
ethnological .cwacnrtrent weerce creewawcceiccse seeeee eee taeee 38, 39
PAG ODORS as tas a doiteltetee te cel ottcclatselsc Were sina meine setelenine ete 47
Proty dc Bissteereasasdes cso ul saccceascaeeee cece oae= seme 47
Dri Charles) J:yelering ase a feiono eles Soe te ee seems sears 47
Dri Otto Pinsche es ateece sat ela eee eee aaa ee eee eeeeas 47
among the Indian mounds in Southern Florida. .-...----.-----392
BPairmount: Observatory, Madison; Inds sss ss tea ee eee es eacene 474 Fannings Islands, natural history Of +925. sos escw el acee sacs aes sere = sem 30 Farlow, Reuben, mounds-on farm’of: <2. 22222222223 2222sterccclseress eter eee 375 Hassett, photograph of Professor Henty-s se ss+s see cele eeie n= 2 eee one 12 Pelserthalyiny ARURLOPOlO Myla select eee sla a else le stele ateel eater 428 Ferguson’s Point, -Minn., mounds ats. 25.5.0 e see cece oe. conn cane wnvcee 425 Ferrel, Squire, found ancient excavations. .----.--<2. ..--22 26 =~ codes nee 327 Feuardent, Gaston L., collection of prehistoric articles-......--..----..----41, 42 Fever, a fnee in eecud and normal physiology, by Dr. H. C. Wood-....-.--. 26 Bicklin, Josephisssssetossa\e2e ec sol ae sae teem ocean ees caeteeaeem=leser 466 Field, ee W.., aasistance bys srsssssecoee cca tuse te eee sok heme ce essescenee 19 Finances 22.455 3A sett side ts Hee oes celcaccenece OA eresesecncoscaq 14 Fansch, Drs Otto; explorations saoes tas aeee nae seels oaelseeecelaeesee eee eeiaes 47 BOFVIGOS Of-s rassssssyscosdssecetseeccsa ds aes seer ees ee ance 48

<<<Page: 608>>>

Page. Fire-extinguishing apparatus presented... .... pdoOe0 SHQOoS coneog SO5oe Sucieeins 63 UEC“ PLOOI Gd OOLSe cciccms cna sieiela Seas Salse cisinlare Sreioc ioc Sraelese mie eciewe os eieelelnetious 62 fred announced: anltomatically; J. +25...42 aac fe ee wees aoe ee ee see oes cee 19 ish Commission, United States, report of.. 3: .2sscodg ssc osencce ese se'ses 37 ashe @OnimissiOna. --.eeciiccss 5 coe So.c ee esa DSc Ree Moe eee ES eee els 68 relation to the Smithsonian Institution-............--.---68
collections of marine invertebrates... ....-+ .<<-..+-s=s----68, 7 WiOLks OR Bj saen seal sae oie faraiguciadisen eae een eee ee eee 71 INVES UP AUONS Heese acs) oa Saisie sale cee ecte assures soaoe 72 Sle AMOLsHUrMIsheds na.) ese a= ieee see ee eee ee oReRsC 72 collections Dysee ses coe eaeces one sescen ose ele ne ee 72 discoveryaOtbile=tShi as croc cia caine oo eee apoE ceisete : 72 discoveryeols pole-tlOund eheayaasset-ee see nee aeeeeceee eens 72 Peslahiony brovincetown y Masses ao seae cece cee aeeeeeeeee 72 station Avoca, in Albemarle Sound .........<-....-<.-----73 hatching establishment, Havre de Grace...........-------73 station McCloud River) Califormia...2. .-52<-.2. sono sesece 73 stavion bucksport Mere csen cum cweeeeice soe cee eee anise ots 73 Station Grand Wale;streamy secs ete scelecaeecle su cesiseeicericere 73 German earp stasis clots ein aiels yaaisjesqersejoajcase aoeee 73 ariificialspropagaldone cass ss a2 sss oats usesioc owe eee eee 74 NE We SLOAN Let OLR amen epee (= io,c1s1s/2 c/s cies oioee ee cine bere ence 74 HalibnG Asheries eq sa go-5) Js 2s\e steel eee oiediewise scence cece 74 deep-seaycod fisherleseas3-4) aeseeeretaacise seciceae scat 74 mackerel Msheryeacce sesso sel ees ete cece eae ce ehowiejatetees 74 co-operation with United States census..-..............--. 74 Psher eM, ANLOTM AON ON MOUNDS s<:5-.55.6 9-55) ~ 205, < sic ss cnteeasjocmsirs eeu 355 HS hes PACSCLIp MONS) Ola sees erste cnc) aa soe seca © sae as eeceloce cian ce cise 33 GELHe HOLMNG AS CALALOPMO/Ols— 54. 54 a 25.a.5< denne sconce sae s ase tees 30 of the Pacific United States, bibliography of................---....31 OigtherUniteds Staves; SyMOpSisiOL eee eeieea ass saaccaeee cee s cose nee 31 TESCATCHES) yo soccaleie 5 <alVsciseweeaiars nis.) aidicisy sia | asi) Selaielseeiececaes See 70 Hint; sr collected: shells). ose aeceisiaen cielo ~ stle cee Selaayeleei-rpeicloateicae ote 33, 35 Beni Parl anthropology, oq sion asians esi culewis sietice Sod covets Yow ste eteens 448 MMT Chippin gs TEluses Of --.isjees3o ee wate sata jai neisale celeisisisia's asetseieiots anise eisieie 362 Flint implements, deposit of, in Missouri.......--.. ISoeSn SOLOS SO0S08 saceaS 307 SPoersion Museni DUIGING 965 joo 2s ces Sema gin o-oo Rk eaem secuisemisonoceesice 135, 137 HMiora Ot su. Crobx and the Vairginvlslands soos. «coecetoseesieaeces Joceccceee 31 Plorida, ancient arrow-head factory in...-...---.------ss0sccsses~es-e ssec 394 EXSpPLOLAWONSMMN 45.5 mess eaiscisa ee seis eee eae E oes see ee eee aie ss 46, 392 Mampa; Bay, Shell-heaps Of<:<)-<:<)jscjejnem so nis sis sty accisie sches aslewcis cia 412, 413 elev) Fonry, AUtLAEOPOlO PY: << 2.caniscceensewe facade Sted weeci-atece -os6= 442 HOCTSUCDRETOL.WEM 22 SoC wccatecicnccisicccs OOPS 6501335 DUS ODO S BO OCOD IDOO0US BOLE 497 Bordh atta Ne iO DRCLVALOLY «oo cc a2 secu cclowmsecltewolns te(islaeeesecasieeeeaees 467 BGESMialy HO WaALG, ASSISLAIG -<< =< Soc c ccs c cab alesse eheins/-Se eb sune=| seen oalme 5 Colla horavonyiee selects tee crsicicier seiceis sisisrieme s=/slelcie a\elel= 69 Hor Dod ge wlowa, ODSELVALOLY <5 ccjscc)ocinee cass elsieaavemaaceecicsa= ose 468 HOMNGAMONSHOL Museum Dull dingy = -cseseie sess seals see ees ria scis ee oso eis 133, 137 HoULmNeNb Ay OUyeHOrid a, MOUNG: OM se -tnaeseeisisie aise sicieisis}-misemnisies=aie/a5 <1 le 403 slielihea pain sacs soe stels Ses oe see eee coeslesas 419. BOSLEL PAS ANUULODOLOLY jcc cocln ness eae eeeeeboerteeaccmisticoapaeess os se)sicecis 435 SRRWCT LS aie ISL EO DOLOLYi/-c usin <2 =i co woes leon eee osama Meee = cle niol> o> oe 434 HOW ler wISrnell ses 22 22 jessieetee debi essa decks chad snapene<ccme sess 474
iHrance; premistoric articles {rom -.> 2.6.6 ssesee here nele ese JOCLDO 020000 HOD a0uG 41

<<<Page: 609>>>

Page. Frankfort-on-the-Main, Observatory in....-...---Seek sank eee ak, Baa See, 500 Brankin ge. privilege) «sos s01s is 50°65 Solar sane se atce = om) wins oleate ee ee 115 Branklin County, Indiana, MoundsuNe coe ose. ces eee ee eee ee eee 370 Franklin County, Missouri, moundsiin2-5. -cice< cescesicee -=2)e tc eeeee ee 355 ree wr ele NG is 1-1 <) jars acolo tote siiaaetace ae ta aeeiaeioisie Salsidicetavisial stl ae erates 50 Brench, 1G.) H., anthropology c-mceces'scele se ec ieee = Sains eee eee eee 435 French half-breeds, the, in the Northwest <:---. --.. 22.2 25-22 ---0 se o-5 ee 309 briel Joseph, anthro polo yjseaaeeteseet tare eltetet eset toisioveinieteeteeie seit 441 risby, Es, Protessor WU aS.1 Nesconset iterate otale aria of oeroretoe Cente eis isto aioe setae 490 Frost, A. L., anthropology..----..----...--elainlate cle cele ae te aie orate otoneia teteraye 447 Molton, Ris sare cetera trees alotete te etoiatee tetete eo teetetotniotoeiioee eerie S90R60 000 S00 482 Gadoid fshes;tdeserip tion Ofer. e meas eee ieee aa aaa ee eee ee ieee 33 (CPS Aon Cine ootete aces ces Sag sdS556 465558 doo dbonSHsO so sSou.nsas Sada ssod 499 Gallery of Aitt= 2-1-2) <1 ae FEB SEUG OG DOC LOC OU DOS sn AAoESEBRODOHaS 60 articles transferred to..-..--------<:.oes esse eos ccs 61 OXPOCNSES heasose salac emer eee roca ecioe deme omens! eels 119 GallowayaiaC., anthropolotyaeeseetsseraeaa ese ele ace == ieeee ne eae aati 443 Galvanized-iron work in Museum building ....----2. . 2220 2-2 ces cne 3. = 0134, 137 Gardner, photograph of Professor Henry... -.....-.. 2.2.20 .esecnse-ee sksates 1m Gardner, Wis tb recta teroratarsiavsoctercretore yell totere =e st stera ioeloteisetesinm enema ntetemtnatacteeyeciers 490 Garfield,; Hons J). As csaarom aforcioersoeetennie in wisi: cisacte nee soe meeebee es iocnciee se 11 Rerent.......5-.Sethian aiaicinicivorse sets aoe eee eel eee teen 4,141 reappoimbeddNe renews seme leee ease eee eee ates 13 Garrett: WM. santhropologyj---.cseesri-n = 22 eae eects aeecees 443 Gasconade County, Missouri, human foot-print found in--......--.----..---357 Gasconade River Missouri, moundsion=nssc2= see slens see eee eriecee aa esecee 354 (Geis) Jaks y code coones GoStee soc Sec edodeE code doa Soseséoco9 esas soos nha SoS= 5 Geology of Louisiana byl. Wl wan@se cece ceeeee eee aaloniee eae 26 Gorman carp. seas sae welsentcissiawl asistencia sects tise eee eeeeeeets 73 Gesner; William vanthropolopyeceese-ce ose eee moe eerlae Seber eeeraae 443 ontimica hedsiin7Alabamars/.o-\-\-mescs seer ees esleeeiemeinaee 382 Gethens) WH. ,ambhropol opyiessce ctor ele ator ioe ee stestoeisieea ese eer 435 Ghross; Wi. J., kitchen-middens on land’ofis-so2..ce 2 a= eee eines see eiaeae 70 Gideon, Peter M., acknowledoments due saseoatsiel el aeea-ie ee eee eal 425 Gideon’s farm, Minnesota, mounds 0n....-.....--. -------2--+--------+ -----= 422 Gill, Theodore N., bibliography of the fishes of the Pacific United States. .... 31 NOLES OL MISMES S fo 2-2 orate iesiae wa sterrecie sie ooo cee etme 33 Tesearches sUSHesiess =< 6 gsee aot ees cee hee ees 70 Glasco; Ji. M., amthropolopy,--@----=-25--.<2=A ROMEO Gop C SOON OoUSeEH coonte 443 Glascow, Mo., Morrison! Obsenviatorys< =< cs0 = mee etal ewig ana ain wislelmlore eee atten 469 Glass and glazing-in Museum building 25.52... . 22 nee con oo ee ceri eae 135 Gleason, Mn; land of, mounds On (oss so.— ase anes ee eae aie oleate ieee 337 Glyptocephalus cynoglossus, discovery of...-.-...----.----.------.--------72 Goode, G. Brown, catalogue of the collections illustrating the animal resources ofthe United States: 22a. esse cs sasere eee neceeieeeatese 31 catalogue of the fishes of the Bermudas. ..---..----------30 classification of the collection to illustrate the animal resources of the United States.-....-... ...25..2..<-..---. 30 curator of the: Museum... :: 2:2 ice teeetetieeeeee ce oeeeeas 5, 69 in charge of census work of the Fish Commission.....----75 onytheiClupeatyrannustse-sqeace eos e echo ee eres eee 33 researches, fishes. -.---woes dee cde wc te Meee eee eee 70 and T. H. Bean, articles in Proceedings of National Museum .33 Goodyear, Mr., appointment to San Salvador. ..-.-. 2.2 .---20 en00 ee +2 eee ee 58

<<<Page: 610>>>

Page
Gordy, J. P., investigation of mackerel fishery.......----.-----.---Shee ot 74 Goreeidound im mound in WlinOis .2— 2 j= at. a 5 e=olowe ema je siiewiehe san : 369 Garton) Charlesyanchropolocye-)-nocincle sees -smeeainie= == jocboosoce peas 447 Gotba Observatory acces assesses soe ead See a eioeieeinseelericetsfocisis 501 Government exchano ese -sem jee enee sae ese elses oleate sie cheaters ai 51 Graveyard on farm of J. Overleese, Indiana ---~-.-5--(-5--5<0----soo -ce 375 Grayesnnerice County. Ulinoisls-)--6-)5 eae eaeeeeiee eee eee eee aes 367 Graiyaeerot. "A882 cos ee eesce aie sie ODOOSO 6d60 DosciosSSs0.coco awcig esas cooses 11 ING scocoae onsnod OSop Baas aaoo Goopeocbos as Bod csatheotood6 4,141
Leap POIMbed ne Ce Mbeya sae; alee me aleadoei ciate aebele eee sei areieiasies 13
appointed to prepare sketch of life, &c., of Professor Henry. . il
Gray Wie ba seanthropolocyssacmeseres na a ae cafe ein eter ieee eae ciaaemics 435 Gre OW a water uiscra nue Sasa wee a. esas cise o/s cial aeiaiste mia eaecesio case antes 460 Creconye J aMesr)) ob. panthrOpOlO Gye es cse) saa ecle ee eae eiaeliaSe eae ees 447 Greeny Jie) CLOCtIICIAM. 2... Sean cece ciate are lsloraifs cc elelay te nae otvanine st opeeeete eae 5 Greeny Ss Cs yanthropolocy cass seis setir seen ine viaiseciclosecl eae a aetna 438 Greenvitake mounds: WiSCOnSsias a. mas ee siento, set ine eels sae ee eee aeos 339 Greene SD ASCOM) a... soe cere geese seimeiaiceyeae sl ccsisias sicher c days auuea es .eeiteeee 489 Creenewrid. anthropology cese= -a-)seccmes sss ojaen eames at sowie oes sees 43: Ccaraihirrsp eB C LOL: oa crseeec eect ne ss ee ater aran so stant pajepen iets ceaade See 5 Guadeloupe birds} Oli ses j.en sae esse cere oes io nee welt Soe beeceee oaieeeers 34 Guatemala uummino-birdsetromece sme seerece oe oewaeciae tenes ee see seer 34, 35 Guilismenhaden-snotesionl esas 5 54s) icee cians =e c01 5 canines oble aclsveaic ce occa ce 34 Paiimot Mexico, fishes aCOMts scotia ese ea ows nia cieine ec ainjein, ataielo econ Same 33 Guite States; anthropolooyc tens sosseemetesmecie sinc = See see eee eei gases ce areas 442 Gntekunst, pnotopraph of Professor Henry 225-3. =< sci sjee's Som <--< oo -='s 12 Cov dene DTU Of sre sa ee eee eas eet cieeicne<. cain 4 so oie a eaeemiseleeien st dccees 506 SLO L SIMEON MMNOMOM DYjarstenome seccurie nee <n isis tie dla ui aees alecice ce 15, 23 UAC WDE QUCS Osta eetae merece a oeel ara se are oP ace ioiain Sais ore Nisin shee Setas 5, 118, 119, 142 ilacenbackw id) joe. eae seye oe tes eair ye Soe ose sect hci ke ee ee eee 497 INES SETA. ANLLYOP OLOGY: seas sae aoe ce Aes A owcikys 0 aa es! saSa)t aaa hwraweise oe 443 al Drecdsynlt the NOTE WeESb)sasc ceases see Pe astese cine sisismcinceite a sce cele «memes 5 309 oricinvand development... wesc s-ecis-\cec = 310
ofispring of intermarrying races .-..---.-.-----313
geographical distribution and population...... 314
Pera Cty ESM ETION. sD VieSbIeAULOW Ole 2 ae a te acta ais)= mae aoe aden wie, oeciecenn saan 74 Eta MACE RDLOLESSOL UMTS INiLaeerctctie see eae es aerate igs nin s)arain ole disjersisiscenemeet senha 490 Hamburg American Packet Company, oclenorde sane dUGas-sseteos as ; 50 HMO EOL ODSCRVALOLY i215 co sere onan see nope <a canvas eiee sem elev ue ein ee eekise.s 501 feaniiean bequest, account of. eel a Sas Co eRe eS ae ee 14, 16, 28, 117, 118, 120 Pamlin selon Her sens 2 fe eee ema ee ene a nk aciac panei n enlstacid somes See acts 11 RES Cit pee sree eee eee aieals lan cj ein ci sintaiclafeltinyainiapecis opiate 4,141
Hanimerstones trom meal schohariow Nem errme cee ace <cniee one e cee sbielociciees 391 LATIN COM BU oan O WIG Sh tN eee te ree eae oate Scie arm, oi a(S aap Sele cnee = iayeiae iets 363 Hanover, N. IL, Shattuck Sheena at ain 2 sone eis ih eietsisesieweae soe 470 Harger, Oscar, ee ee ee A ei oy cicia, cla ora) Sale is Sb eis Slat oet 70 UAE OSS AV eee PLOLESSOL Un See Neweris erst = le = ia aero 0/0 |,6 sie, ampere 'alan tatinte nats = 490 AAITIS VOscA> ua ENLOP OLOGY eee cae anna asece ce es Sains sisi esse ssbarcwlewere 441 ATCIS sel KG nano pO lO gyre as saeco fc onic cns\ecmetesisimesiqectiseiaee 443 Harrison, Dr. William P., mounds on plantation of.....----.----.---------386 Harrison, Mrs., presented Indian poctraits...--..----.----04 -d-2-2s+eaene 40 hart wo discoveredicomousneaaecoascutencetec cies sacle <a Sasieleeek, osieciesicin seine 22 Harvard: College: Observatory cs a6 “sic 22's =e orale ce east anos scenes 462 Hastings, N. ¥., Draper's ODservatory .... ..<.-<-<0000sesessicos sindinc eawsienle = 471
S. Mis. 5439

<<<Page: 611>>>

Page fastings,; Prof..C.)S: lectures bys ssesenete oo nce sau ae nee eee ee eee ee 64 auch, Col-ckidward,lettertrom 2 encase eels ene o eee ene eee eee eee 41 Hatchet insmound:in Towa 5-6: freer dale tore Sorrento = aoe eee ne 346 Hatching establishment at Havre de Grace ....5. ..--.. -----0-----2-22--ee 73 Havard, Dr. V., on the French half-breeds in the Northwest ..--..-----..-.309 Havertord,.Pa., College Obserwatory =... 852cc fe assets oe he eee eee 472 Havre de Grace, hatching establishment at ~...... 2.222. .2-20 scce see ene once We Hawatian Islands, natural history of -52.53. 210s as o0 soe soe scan ooo gees 30 Hay, Charles A. ranthropoloty sssaetans erste «ee eee ee see ae eee 446 Hayes, Rutherford B., presiding officer and member ex-officio .....----..----4 Haymond, Dr. Rufus, description of earthwork near Brookville, Ind..-..--.-. 373 Hayward, rank. Wi.,;collections) by) qasmenkeceasessceees cee eeee teeta eee 68 Hazzard a0, Ls; Anthropol ogyra ou. coctate ates state aioe si eieeioere eae ae ee 446 Hearn, Saul, mounds on-farm of. 25. sac -1tarit= siiciateee oe eae eee eee 348 Heating apparatus for new Museum building. ..--.....--.-----.-----------127 iHederick,Generaly J.-M, moundsion lands|0f---eeeeaeeeeieee eee eee seer eee 348 Hemphill, Henry, collected mollusks +.4.c-2-+->= Sen soe eo eeee cere es soe eee 35 Hempstead, GS. b.,-anbhropolocy-. -<cus'.i-scies eee eneeee eee eee 438 Henderson & Co., free transportation granted _..............----------.---. 60 Eenderson,, JeGe, anthropology, .scese-ci---= eee ee eee eee ee nee eae 435 Henry County,: Missouri, implements found im —.-:..22-. 222-5 eccs cose cece 357
Henry, Professor, memorial services in honor of .......--. ...--------s0-96
portrait Of 2-2. wee cre tse cens were eee oe eee tees 12 Dusts Of o:22; Sou scs eset ncetas osewer ce cece cece aoe cecheenee 12 steel: portrait Of;.-2:..2242)-% easceeeceeecee ceeecces wscees 12 oil: painting offs -.2%eb isceces tecnee Doce cette ceiee selena 12 photographs of ..-.....-.-. cls eabale bins Oa eRe me ioe eee oer aisle 12 Statue Of ns) heres c= 2 eee eee eo ee A er ee ee 138, 116 examination Of ACCOUNT Of-a-ee eee ae eee ee eee eee 28 Menry, William 'T;; anthropolory =~ cc.uc-= ok sete ct ee eee eee 434 Henshaw; collections: byi-~ 2. .:= tise teee sete soe eee ee eee eee cece ascears 67 Herford, Rev. W:. H., assistance rendered by —.--.--<---= -o-ese se oc coe eee 29 Hering, DriCharlesJ.; explorations seanee acess enna ese sete ccc eciestataiesineicte 47 Herring Fire-Proof Safe Company, donation by-...-.--..-..-.-------------63 Herron, Joseph, janttorcsce 2 sesscicece ceesmce s decmes yeas aces eeesecae 5 Bless, Hy acc e< ce te siete cst eke heceewe case tenioee ee eet cee aclaeeeeeeeaeererers 468 iiess, (Mrs, P. Bieiacc2 ci use cathe tee Sete secs eee eee ee ea eee 468 Highland, Ill.,.mounds néat:: 2 Ssseec-=5-2 cere e eee e cues Cee eee eae a eee 366 StOne.cists NOAM :..2-<-s.s 5 sense eccce ome k el ee Sees eeeeemere 366 Pilgard. E>) W., ceolocy of Wowisiana -o.nsscees ceo nas oe eee ae eee eine 26 Hill, F. C., anthropology ~:......~... SS as sae TS GROSSES 438 Bill oH. «anthropology =1.2.7+2.%%.0sces tec -ee cee eee ee eee 433 ill, Mr.; mounds om Jands of. .--2-.22b ce. neseee seen erence eae 340 Hinckley, Isaac, assistance rendered by ---...-.----+ ---= -252 e=24=-ss1e=e= 50 Mintz, Mr; mounds:on lands of —..c2s..2---5+ cose ese eee eaten 333 History, Origin and, of the Smithsonian Institution, by W. J. Rhees .-...-... 27, 28 Hitt, D., anthropology: t=... <= -22: ett eet cs otic nieces ceria een aaeeeimes 435 Hobbs, Thomas J., disbursing agent to National Museum Building Commission. 126 Hobby, Dr. C..Mo-setecteccs tee keccct we cees eee cee oeee See eee See eens 473
afolbrock, W.-C., anthropology —.... (lo ssjcsceoclecs s eoew soe eeeeses eee werens 43 Wolden, E..8., professor, U.S; Nizc-=cseueee ee oo wee e one nee eae eee ees 490 report on American observatories ...........-.--------535 Holland, B. B., flint implements plowed up by........-.-.------------+----307 Heliand,, Joshua, anthropology... ---ciesweaevece teeces posepeenee Seeere seer 438

<<<Page: 612>>>

Page.
Holly, A. T., examination of mounds.... 0-2... 222 w2ce eee soto pococn cpa 346 HHoliiCounby.) Missouri,pMmounGSiileesseeeee asec ciemeeeaiscce/ sss s=.s\ ccc 354 Horan, H., superintendent of building ..--....-.. Se suc0o abQ6es0 OCBCGE aHOBEE 5 Hornstone chips found at Schoharie, N. Y.222).25 02 S220 20. Sas lon =~ ccc eee 391 TOUS Lisi GemWheciaera aes esa a oieiacis Seca ccree co ceteris Sajansercesisiceceine ease sce C 464 Hough, James, on mounds in Washington County, Mississippi-.-.----------383 Hanserentiallowed«the secletabyeaaesice salon asi see ace eneeinm men <= 142 ETON ZEA el oe Oa oes ans Ae eee ae sale aaa tose eebece deseo sacsisccimceee 499 HTOWe HOLD OrbrAtseaese ee meeeisacer see otal einen aicine aisiae mies ciasictenaia ser cerle 475 ISO Fen) Hol re Dog ehh, 55 chen popoee eeseooode boce Ses heoees Gach 65h 31 Haxie Walter anthropolopy += scnstek ode. (22 Sia Oee ae Set 443, 462 abbard star enlimois sm oOunds) OMe ecscesosac ese aeiecel ase amersaiee nape caer 363 inp DAEGU CIS, AUTO PO] OCYe eee aaioeae alee a eieicies se serie eeleeicerie sienna 434 Human honestromimound im MWouisianaocn oe one ec ssea ce oc escelese eee anne 387, 388 IMAMOUNGAS iD, MISSOULNC ea. secs chee eee see cer este cseee 353, 354, 555
Human foot-prints found in Missouri .-..-.---RSS eo eatin eek eee 307 Eeunminopirds description Of 2.4 esee ae ac ee oe ect oscee Ste eae eoasenee 34 list ofepyaUAG Hig heseer = aie sees sesate cies. cis eelaeison ete 26
Fem phreys, font A. anthropology: tan 2 sss cacietesla see els ceeisaades ocleaae 446 fan Data Elo, amGhTOpolesyssc ac csctiee sss 525 facet asa tc ecie sadmlaceeee 430 Hydro-pneumatic Fire Extinguishing Company, apparatus presented by..-.--. 63 Ichthyology, North American, contributions to .......--..-------.---e---31 JD MONSS Gralla OATS BooAcodeserb eas cH Oaos CORO SEES EET ne BEEP OEScu ceutuecs 435 ilinois;mounds inet ew aee ee sere eee we nae 341, 359, 363, 364, 365, 366, 367, 368 Im Roeklisland’ County son). =1= catia cee oss soae senie ss COO) COU OOS
on Campbpellignis)an derma seer c seein cates iaael= 363
TeATS MOLINE eee ee eee weer eset eeathoes seneeee tase ne 363, 365
INPLLAMp LOMB eee aes a aise sce acieeinttic er eater rea= 363
OnE ry Otiman siarmyees eset nicaa = cntecene saeeerec se sel 363 onyRoheadrislands sepa e sce acceler ecicle cise eoeslce nie 363 OnsHmpbardsHranmMeseseqee eee nee eae ease esl eeaeiseicinl ce = 363
abe Valleye Cihysee a aia eal oats setae sine Seteertaie Solari 363
OnyDeerejs farm ose c sees sleet cease Seber eeotee a. 363, 364, 365
NeaMblacky Hawk LOW Clase caeieeos cere a Sac sce es aeeeaslesoe 363, 365
On Davenporus landipeeeasme mea eeeemaas cece mele) a-eecce = 363
Near Milan acer soos eee e eee eiseiee Hacite oem ae 363
in Madison County .--.--.-----reas sie seclc RES RISE re Secele 366
neae Mighland)s32 s5 sce see hae mei de cet ABE hale 366
onland of JoOnmer ee ROOte ae eee ease seats ee ere nana 366
in) Pike County -ceos. cases ne NES COSE BORD COBO SHO CHEE eat 367
IMESPOONERIVEL VaAllOVesssecieese sae sic] cee els eee eieese oo osens 368
NEAT OUINCYpaacen seas cea asec seal Seems a ae a oss cence cee 341
awiste AUUDTOPOO Sao. o = Settee = oe Sac Fav eiese ea totes dena seceto week aces oee 430 Towa (City, C; W. Irish’s private observatory....--. 2J2220 6.2225. see t cisco ns 472 EGiyyfe wl OLE SEINE rane Behe ete ts alate ane ee ee oeiens see cote cae cin cece 344 FilvyeHord monnds esse snes eee ae eee eae el ceeiateeice cece 346, 347
TiC yCUMCC Hs ehecice sce Saobes dh ocee Sone Sane cbh6 cosdcoES SNe 345, 346
inses Moines Valleyeresscreseccae coe sete ae te aeaems io lace . 344
Meae Clith am des soa a. see ee ole seen een alacicecaashvioisiccinclaata 349
MOAT EAN Eas. soe eae eles sal eea ceased sles c.ce siecle 348
Meir) OLGUNUW die sess eee cee Conc esis am etmaa oe eiate ac/ereisie sais 344, 345, 348
Siless Mounds -oceieee eee eset ees eels tasocsle sale cs cle ele/sin/niniel= 346
Rusar Creek oroupeass=sseree ee eee eeeneeewn cess esosec=. 344, 345
Willave! Creek; mounds =-ssewsisessenleseetceseciecisaas)seececlsisne 346

<<<Page: 613>>>

Page.
Implement.found in mound in Hlinots -2-23... soos stec cue seteseeceesne= ss 369 in Missouri 2222205 <-.d< 022 fae Leet js eh ts 396, 357
on, Minnetonka) Hakel nc cccnnee erences een eee eee eee 427
in /shell-heaps in-blhinois.-£ 2. cease see seecie see eee eee ee 370
index, authropolopyi-n-oesse eer eee reer eee ene =e eee ene ee eeeriee eee 476 Indian heads, ‘casts of... [osces Sas Lasse see tae Bao See eee eee ee 34, 42 Indian’ Hall, Florida, jshellzheap at. 2 --\-ocee. == = eee eee eee ee eee 418, 422 Indian mounds in Southern Florida, explorations among......---..----.---. 392 Indian Pass) Church, Blorida,shell-heapiat==2-..oe cece ese eae eee eee eee 419 Indian relies:from! Schoharie, Niece cee cee ceenee eee eer ee ee este e ate 391 Indians, half-breeds/of.the Northwest=:---s--scs-s-=-eee seere == ee eeee 309 Hndins, anMcbhro polo gyeee emcee cise e eee nee aie eet ee eae eee ere eat 438 Franklin’ County, moundsinms2o2-ccssesceeee ee eee sean eens a 370 Inflamation, reparatory, in arteries after ligature, by E. O. Shakespeare-.--. 26, 28 Ingalls; portrait of, Professor! Hentyncce--7---eo-ieee eee ee eee eee ae 12 Ingersoll, Ernest, assistant for census work of Fish Commission. .......----75 Inman Steamship Company, acknowledgment due-....-..-...--.-----.-----50 Internal.structure of the earth, by J. G. Barnard). .22..222. 02 222.2. =... 26 International Exchange Bureaus. o---\-c—== eee eee Senet ciate ee eee 48 raja, DIPdSALOMS socio <cccseiward loss ceiaiers wciclowevoaaieia cla cee eee eee et eae 36 Irby; J. BR. McD! daboromieees gions essen? SF ee eee Q7 Brish,, (©. Wis stereo tacrerserereinaioieifoneinnevetactae ate Hs Latte sere nc nee Ree ee re 473 Umish, Miss Wiz Ze sc jevercteciercicie! susiovotniowacies =e eictaicin Meee eee ecto eee eee nee A773 Trish, Miss! Ruths 25. s28: JGs. se ca aencc secu es cove wseccct cece cee Sep eeeee 473 Erishy (Miss 1C Wis storatsoreveiewtajore arcrermeretene Reece ERLE SPREE aren One Mat | Res 7p arcana 473 Trish, William)C; anthropologyc-cesse epee e es eee nse eee eee See ae eas 448 Jron-workindMuseum butlding 2 seeeeeeserier ee emece see ete cee eee seer e ele 134, 137 Irwin, J. Wi, anthropology sa-cstl2we) aasiseolneaeacwac eee ee eres aaa ae 438 Jack, J. Allen, anthropology ast eoceeeee Pee ee dee eee ee ee eee estes 448 Jackman, F., on mounds and earthworks of Rush County, Indiana...--..--. 374 Jackson, J.-B. 8.,-0n arsenic acid tomprotection— --e s+ essere ee eee ee 33 Jackson, Mich.,ObservatoLy,-:5-sac. socciencces en uee Recs elects tee sete ee 473 James, El. anthropology --seseoe ee = eee eee eee Ses suie ss 433 OJeanette? exploration). .-.c i. <ceminsicrowcwdecitee ete oe eee eee oe ee ete eeae 45 Jefferson County, Missouri, human foot-prints found in.....-.-.--...-..---. 397 Jefferson, Lieut. J. P., and others, on fishes...-----..----. -------2--2 ween ee 33 Jenison, /O. A.,, anthropolotyy.. occa -naneaacacie eee ee cee ees ceeece eee 435 John’s Pass, Florida, burial mound at--....-.....-wpe gee ae 401 Johnson;County, Missouri, mounds alls. 2-55 teeta ae secs ee eeieete ee eee 304 Johnson; ‘G: H.| mounds on plantationof sass eeee a eee eee a eee eee 386, 388 Johnson; El. -E. ;anthropolapyje.caaq cas alecei ee ne tte eet eee ae aioe 444 Johnson, Jullgs . 2... fodsesacos tse c sn sca cesenvelec ot cae een Ee eee eee 369 Johnson, Prof. Walter R., on scientific writings of Smithson........-------27 Johnston, Hon..Joseph H., Regent... soso az eee eae beetenee seen 4,13, 141 Jones, Charles C., jr., on primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points. -.76 Jones, John P., presented human foot-print..... ..-...Joss8 0502. oe eee 357 Jones, Joseph; memoir by -..s.--sp5-4 ness ese eae a See Re eee ree 23 Jones; Joshua, anthropology: <2. .<.-c-= -sne=--see sb ae eee ae ee emia 435 Jordan, Prof. D. §., assistant for census work of Fish Commission. .....----75 contributions to North American ichthyology--.---.----. 31 explorations .-2-. cacsc ce so oe see eee eee eee eee sar 45
on fishes from Oregoncs--. --eS eee eee eee eee Se 33 researches, fishes... <..2<cssent uceserige ones -teeasete sens 70

<<<Page: 614>>>

Page Jordan, Prof. D. S., synopsis of the fishes of the United States. ..........--... 31 Jordan and Gilbert, on fishes from North Carolina.-....-...-----.-.--.-----33 Jordan, James, information respecting Black Hawk-....-....--------.-----349 Journals of the Board of Regents, by W®J. Rhees....-..-....-------------27, 28 KANSAS paATibOTO POLO Myers see ae alae tia sitet Sh as OR fate ete iels 3) seal al al site 432
Karns Wea. .valuableiservices Of. 5-2.25.c/sses bao 4s Site sane ccaice eects s 15 KellogesD 5: sant nro polocyessscorsereeces tae sel ae cle ne aaa eieeletee ee eerteael= 445 IO DP Se Sena SSSR Ot OS eS DEBS Coe Oe eee Eee Cee OBO A Seo O CED ScS aeae 505 Kenaston, Prof. C. A., information of ancient remains .-..-.-...--..--.-----340 Ie mGC kayay all DEO POLO Ciyperpaeertar 5 sa ratelatasol ete, <alale) sisiciai=oieiajata/einialainjes teteet tcl otcieiateeae 441 ercuelenwsland maturalenistonyy Of. son. < 15 lenin sienjsueieinicinelae elssisete eosieseewe 30 KenveyasWs Ke pamthnopol 0 Saye ccjefate eeisiog= (nici iciciolninic! sessions sjajcialetoayeeioitiectaelosae 446 K<eibermanaweek..< 2M bATOPOlO Osc) anime Sein olslecioise ovsldious ce Sais eteseee as 432 Kener one) pe Mien MeEMD EI CL-O [i ClOnerinars laafess Aacjalsecetiasecs ce Dalssscioieels) <i=tor 4 Kidder, Dr. J. H., natural history of Kerguelen Island..--..-..-------.-----« 30 eglran Ed weAcp AMD OTO POOL Wess sa, sai sian ael as cle Selects e cle c/5 =< poe sate nine eels 436 GtnT es OTD) Ts PAG ae ap ee fo ci nieqa nie aistexelnisinjoni= sinch='sicjssisinwicia) 6 Saisie Se Mash clelect)ae,<1 501 Mato Cooks ANCATOPO LOC Vase erates alice iss Se eats else otis, ioe meet sate os 446 Kipehen-middensiin: Californias. 45s4sssa-lsseaain Soe eiercias= ee cio ceias accel 33 Ain Ols Bes era seakes a= alas ereae = Se) ois) <epeeieeeee 70 shell seroma: cise sag seis aie asiais seat assess Sete tosle'a bo ceis cise 35 TESTA E) do Ilnn BANOO DONWON Kose Gok Seon e ado Ebe BOE Cab DOE CUO M eG DOCU DUCE DODSErbE 438 onaregobhaty 15 los IONS MeO os oc0 Gogh cosber C6bbed unde Bene Goaued SpcEeS 345 Knight, Dr. Edward H., on savage weapons at the Centennial Exhibition... 213 Henivies foundenea rs Chobham GyNa Nese tac acleione) ss) 3-1 56 n= soe) asim ee 391 ooenkivereh OL tMOUNCS OMe tea seiea= loaned a ae ela aale aiaiaiae ein aciao cate 392, 393 |. cerns ets Were ORE NANOS on eco BoC Or OBESE GoeC DOO EH a JS5S00 BESO OUEBBDIDE DOS 3 501 HOG INS (Ce, AEM Mole. Coonan deb aediesee Boe canlanbeiss pono eSEese ao50 SaDEeS 446 Kunlien, L., assistant for census work of Fish Commission...-....---.-..--.75 contributions to the natural history of Arctic America -----.--31 ny kendal John-C,. santvhropOlopyaeeneeseeeleskiessieeeslcmnwien cine = 9" a> = 444 Waboratory,.chemicaljavorksdoneunss ceo seles Sse) anise ss eeicissasicnle SSOBOOOE AC 17,18 TeALLANO CMe Nib O fe eae ater le eo acate Sele teiniae Soodde sand 6a656 ° 62 ACY Pee aAllLNTONOLO Wesson p ese aa teeeoe pee cease sich, asics els <laiac) seisieies 441 lambs) @harlesw) ie. sees c+ --/saccje se aioe eae o aetetaeisice leis waisted sine eeerdlcte 470 Ep LON mite ALUN ODOlO lyme s ene ese etal ce)amellalslaiciechscjn siwialacisisnln acces 441 ILE nated Bygid 12 aerator Mace eae tee BURA eee ea ta eat LES. buh crake Aha 455 Lappan, George, opened mound in Spoon River Valley, Illinois ...---.-----368 Maiwrence, George) Ns. birds Of DOmIniCges sea saa sete sels se see <isisaic\mnivcle ss = 33, 34 Southwestern Mesacous! 45) 62\6 sone asclen eon 30 researches American birds. 2-6 s/4-lo-csen «nse sa 70 Lawrence, Kans., University. Observatory ..-.-..--.. 22-2 2-case cnees co cnne 473 eulin, George, Aj, anchTopola my cred. wasc5 sesbe toe we Sash a aalstoe sacs =-2 = 446 Hesbaron,7 J). Erancis, anchropolomygrejcss ssenenees saneso ceo scse esis cisocwes 444 Ie(Clear, Mr, portrait of Professor Henry. -2..sss<s2-=-<-----~-55Bidee do 12 MGC HOLES sense cam ator aes Set eee ee aces PES ciossetais acistaaceledaces 64 Lectures on the present fundamental conceptions of physics -..-..----.---5 485 Ie Givyd ls) awl Gee aa. epee tena ele tae 2 eT is a ate taeiaeals eo cteehste ete 16 Beech, Daniel corpespoading Clerks. n-.hecis so weno cwene sen diesciaeie bem 5 secretary, &c., National Museum Building Commission. .----. 126 Legislation on preservation of monuments in Denmark -.-.----. toosocoCde c 306 erpzi g UniversisyODsenvatOLye 2-01. see noting oleaica\ai-civisclsievelainciascicac eee 502 Leverch, Mr;, ax6 in possession Of £2.35. 122 sj-c0eceseseeseeeo-e eee apes 55 sais 362
Lewis, C.H., anthropology .. ........-.----+-eeSige Mats eanaia wala < siewnols ants 434

<<<Page: 615>>>

Lewis, W., opened mound in Spoon River Valley, Iilinois.......-...--.-.---363 ews, Weskle.qt0bhTO POLO, 6 emcee ee eee ee ele eae ee 445 bibrary: of Institution. —.6 <ee === eee eee eee eee eee eee ol ACGLtIONS tO)... <,ce sen ese oeeeene eos Cae. . JSo SESS See Ree ee 53 Libraries, principal, of the United States, list of......-...-....--.---..----.26 Lichenops perspicillatus and inus, description of ...--...----...-.---------ai Lick Astronomical Department of the University of California............-426 Lightburne, Dr., collections by -.-.....--.----h mototerajstmrarete cipro mee einteraeseee 68 iimpets; descniphon.ote-.=e alee eee see eae eae ee ee eee eee ae eee 35 Rrtehtield:Observatonysooacen. cee ciecceioe = cere cise aie eee eee eee 465 locke; W.-M. ,anthropolopyececstencecce eee cee += = e— eee meneame Secireea 436 Ibrop rye NS Les hah oh Wey ol yeAyS BSS 5 OS ERAS Soe ah s5 SSo5 sas 5 5 Son qoSess esa Soe so438 Long Key, Florida, turtle-shaped mound on........-...-------------------402, 403 Lopholatilus chameleonticeps, discovery of . -.-....------mc maten ces Ae 24 12 Loss of employés and collaborators. ...... 0-2. .oc cc. 2s cane ene neem een owns 64 Houisiana, ceology of, bye. We Wuloard ee cce cen wencloeeeenlseee eee eee 26 Mor mounds Meal aeseeees eee = nee eee eae ee eee ee eee ieee 351 Morehouse, Parish, monndsanlee. —-—.eeee =~ eee ee eee ae 336 ower California, matural histonyjOlsececei-<ce-6)-e eee oe ee ee eee sees 30 Pohang Jb eed 565865 S855 e550 655600 N50 SSr SSS OOO aSSO tro oao SeSas9 5250 c856 466 acermaria, DyaEl.vd | Clap serosa le etete ete sore me oe eee a ie iin 26 und Universitivs OWSeLviatOly nec taas tee eee ee eee ae ee late eerie 503 Lupton, Prof. N. T., breeding habits of the sea-catfish ..-.......-..--.---034 Guther; Dr:-Robertescs te soosste == cee eae ss Seco We Se seiee Ses eee eet Sete 500 Thymes Os iS So o865 S5566506 seco Seas S060 s25sen seco aSS IEE OsSe ccaoms cose sose 477 MacDonald..W.2A., anthropolocyi.sers-(-nue eases hoe oe eiteeee eee eee rere 431 Mackerel] fishery, investigation Ofjs. -<te ca elre ee ain nine oe eee ee 74 Mackey, Mr.; land of, mound. on -~ (5.0 oScssmeiewitere oer eee ee eee 369 Maclean, Dr. John, Regent 22.2 222t8: 2-222 ot seas sie ee ieee ina 4,141 Teappointed Mecentinees sate eee ee lee eee ee eee 13 member of executive committee. ...-...--------.-------4 Macliean, J.-P, anthropolotyeoeses ens -eese = eye== eee eee eee eee 439 MacSwain, L. D., anthropology .----... ---= .--------9see wee oo aae= === ---= 444 Madison County, Illinois, mounds in... ..-. ... ~~~ s2 2. ene -2-2 eno === 366 Madison, Ind., Fairmount Observatory. ..--.----..-..--------------------474 Madison, Wis:, Mounds Nar. 6.55 jo scce lac ci ee eile ee eae eee eri 343 Mamma)lsiin’ National Museum )-. 2252 ss ocie)oee eerncale elena ee 67 Manatee River, Florida, shell-heaps on .....-...--...---.-------2-.-----414, 416, 422 Manitoba Library, request made by .... .--2. 5.2 e228. on ne ee eee === 60 Manners of Shoshones or Snake Indians... .:5.-i5--2---..-.---.---------328 Mannheim University. Observatory . 20. -2 S22 ov ode wemibeticice me eo caen onc wce 503 Mansfield, J. M., anthropology -...... .------00 5 --cee ee eens eee ne nee eee 402 Mantel, Mr., respecting human foot-print .-...-----.--.---------+--+ 4----359 Manufacture, primitive, of spear and arrow points....---...---------------76 Marble, Hon. E. M., member ex-officio. ...-..----------.--------------------4 Marine invertebrates, investigation of...-.. .... ....2. -.-.---.------------70 Marshall, T. M., anthropology -.... 2-222 .c2ee0 2 <2 ewes see ene enone enone 441 Martin, Everett, exploration... 0.0220 snccne -c0 nencee Hans econ once oo nb nes 397, 339
Martinique, birds Of 2.22. .,... 00 ccnonben secese cocbscles meesigeceinsss sencicene 3 Marvin, D. S., anthropology ...-..0. sSbe chee es oo een eee Be nw ere e an eone 4A, 445 Maryland, anthropology... ~-2... se2cae dee secession weno een ecnenne downs 5 446 Mason, Otis T., anthropological investigations...-....-...-.-----+-.-------449 summary of correspondence relative to Cireular No. 316...--. 428 Matile, Dr. George A., on importance of Palenque slab........---.---------ee

<<<Page: 616>>>

Page. Maw, George, presented North African pottery -.....----..----..----...--<. 41 Maxamoreomt, / loridayimoundsateesesses seas eseeecisnetceeeeetecesecceceece 404 shell=heapsabsss ssetesee eles ee ceee) doaeieeee scoe ees 419 Mazatlan birds|fromvsssessys on ck svete ces sc.s ot Scie oel ee eee iaeiooe one fae 36 MeAdamsh William Vanthropolocyeencsscccisescceacccessoeesernecetieceticcce 436 MGAUIStereAy AL anthro polovyeeassss) cmccic cen tacces sem eens Sees seSSe Seae 429 MeClelland Marcas yanbhropolocyiaen = scsaa seen ees cee eee Ce eee oe 436 McCloud River, California, Fish Commission station at...-.-..----...-..--73 MC CWonmackaiditby ssreee as ea ciscea ssn cinaacmelnase esi eet re ee eee 462 MeCormicik=shaG. wantinnopolocyerace sem aat nee eee eeneeeeeeiee nee ooo 433 ic Cosh whey Dr splrameliDyiaaseciesciciee seco aces aha Sdcle ae ame aeeniee aoe 11 Mc CrarvyplHOns: Gan Wis le uber trol ace cfecs ais sas cerescer noes cero eee eee 41 McDaniel wh. Hwan thTOpOlo gy secises ci seine sree ce ciceints saan Pee eee eee 447 McDonald, Col. Marshall, assistant for census work of Fish Commission -.... 75 Beh lwatn gies A CMTOPOlOPY: <2 sas = oS aed eet oes os Se ea ee 446 PerePcuL ERE ow buem peemteraa an eres ae ate clat Nace oate er Comiaje yan cae eal eee eee 466 Bec Omics aNUNTOPOlOMy22c a= 6.cSecicccesciccooce sete eels aaa aes sae ae eee 446 Brokderoy,JounM., anthropology, = <= (sesccec 5252 ccac Sadun gees Sew ecewesece 444 PICIOULN WO WIS 5 22255 sftece ssc ho As cases eso. tao wele Goselws sede ae Sele e ees 495 Mock holding. degth Olen 255% eros. b2 ss ctaettin tess anon sd eta eeeee ee 64 MeckwLhomas moun ds\onmlanrmvOlsaceee sess ce see eee ee oe eee 374 GST CO Ors dene 0 GOnC app COREE SRE ACe COPE RR Ei Tie cee ECE ae Pine See ieee Stes 5 63 Boardso tne gen tame eps sate te, jain 52,2 Sacitecia See e aula ee EES 14 National: Academy of Sciences? as. s2actans ki sgeeecesceben eae 22s 13 Anthropological Society of Washington .................---------64 RG UTR oars aye era ee Se agains Basins eae te SEs ene eee 64 Meigs, Or James Aitken; deathiots = 2 cccccscccecicesascctcee hens l2h UY Oa. 64 Moire GoneralMsC.canthropology. <<< <<: <icocns< tees REE eke wae oes 429 Conhrimed estimates 25-545 sso aed see eel ete ae 71
consulting engineer to National Museum Building ComTMISSLOM 55 ieee eee aise oe wis aA 5 oa rot 126, 128 (CO-OP erationicynss as, se wares eee Eee oss ecee 39 Byte thal cliciri eal AIM aie 2h ees Sik ora ohh ois, Waes,cc la se Wes ce ee 467 Mem orialiad dresses 2a). 2 -1ce:s se crscyse se Se as ase. cio eee Eee Sees Tal i BG INIC OS. ste nahn ote Seafarer lay <i afasata To Seer ee samc LS. At 11 fo:\Congress:for/Museany building)... 2-222 madslt ease eee ace J bee 125 WOLUIMO: 2 aiseevemicns Sess ciss Hae aaa emis Scio See ae emai ee 12, 142 MecINOINSEpUDNSHeGks So xe! a2 a oc Sense apeetl es trea Seek Sap fee 23, 26 BESTHTAAGID MOLLER OD a9: ais, ajo, <fu/s tifa js inst yee ree See cls ete Bae fo eee 34 Mepham, Mr., human foot-print in possession of ..........2.-----.--cee eee Bay/ Merchant Line of Steamers, acknowledgment due. ........2....--222----e-ee 50 Merrill, Dr. James C., notes on the ornithology of Southern Texas.....-..... 34, 36 MEccaligeenny, ANGHTOPOlOPY<--'02s sca/es sons seam culsas ons aaae ke nes ome 429 Metcalf, Mr., collection of New Mexican objects....... .-.2..:--e00.-------41, 42 SxMloravious DY -\-'<cu ees ae ee ee eee ae cate 42 MEteOlGrraph UNIVELSAl).. 2 -\<i.)02<22aaceiee sons cucjte eae we RRS EES Soe eee 519 RIEU ZO Pla ATTALOPOLOL Yq ws 50: = 25)= 2 5,2 Dosen ds ween ane eee ew eee eee aso Mie xicanicalender, stone; cast Of i<c<<5 <2 0nees ac'ss eee oeowse Shee. 41 CIC Ome XIPIOT ADL ONG II 10/00 Aa vrais ce cele SoS OS ea oR Be Se EIS 46 National Museum of, contributions by.--..2..-2<0)-0--.ceces cece cece 67 BEG US EOIN a xioraisicssaiein' at opi ore weyeeeie see ei ROMGECSO AoHeS doosaseo cone 36 Seutlwestern,. binds! Of. 25-205 Jk werent de seen aeeieel. 8 522 eee 30 Meyer;Abraham, anthropology .~=.2.-: 223 12-sesesces SeGee tase 5s ccs cack 446
DALAM tee M Ce aNOUNGS NOAM. wa issn cis sue assoc cclsetscs ote dsickesc.. weelsene oaee 356

<<<Page: 617>>>

Page.
Mica beds in. Alabama s 22. occisac aes ros, stakes ee eee sees eee ee 352 Michigan, anthropology <7-ceaseesem eae leans soe sae eee ee eee eee 434 State Normal SchooliObservatonyis-e eerie eee aoe oe eerie ee eee 495 Middleton;,G./B., anthropology oa vasseraemisia seal icra aaa ioe eee ae 441 Malan; Til anounds near.— 7. -eccjemacoeiers sa rnbeisecie sees bee eee eens aoe 363 Malan! Umiversiby, Ohserviatonyjsacaiiscets ioersoet oie eee aa ee eee 503 Miller, A.-M., captain, United States Engimeers....j25220)5255 s-coce ceceee 495 Miller, George, opened mound in Spoon River Valley, Ilinois..---.-.....-..368 Miller; anthro polocypeceociiseeriaa eee ieee ean ate eee eee eteee see eee 439 Milliken, John M., description of mound in Mississippi-.---.----.-.-..---..383 Milner; : DW. vexplora tions ys 455s acerca acialcenee=icpeisers eee ee ele meee tae eee 46 Mulroy, Inds) moundsimear/asecsieeaeke se ecieSaami eee etcetera eee 374, 375, 376 Mills; Clark, casts takén byi2.52%, 3-1 ocend conse Soca eee teasers neee 34 madercastsof Mndianheadsees22). 225 sas ec eee eee ee 42
made. bust of ProfessorsHenrysso-15 saci eee te eae ene 12
Mills Sem ry ao is (yasarcie erwin ictetialaiw netstat te ole le i atcia ania ale oat iaicla oe lee eelewiele ee Sere ete 462 Minneapolis) Minn-, iskullfoun dl in) cocera--)sies o-oo eaeee Sees 427 Minnesota, anthropology: acai: aecicic wee cate ciosemeb eck henaseeeia eee ee eiee a= 430 den werainie, Moun ds yah cto tee toed eee ee et 425 Merouson’s;Eoint, mounds ates emcee eel tee eee ee 425
MOUNDS) vars cawaiccdiercitacevsdocessao2 SRL eee 422 Minnetonka, Wakes arrow-headsfoundionyee ses soesiee ele eee eee ee 427 MiscellaneousiC collections. sc nccis scieehone vw wiser ereemefacieiv an ad ae SN ee 23, 26 Mississippi, Washington County, mounds in.. 222. 2252-2235 sees coos woes wee 383 Missouri anthropology ya sasacet sito celeste eee sole sate a eee rameter eeres 432 PLEMISLOLLC KE VAC ON CERN eects ee eee elee nee ene fete eee eerie 350
Monn Gs ¥jact ete oie ectatoe ee ice eieiele vesicle meted oe eae ate eee 350
inveike! County seers. aia lee ae ati Seer 390, 355
burial: place dass ise aae esate alae ceatse rien eiaseiacien acta 350
ont Notts (Creeks aU 5t a5. Seats aaa cree ene seelceeaneine 352
NYS AON LOL MSIE heap qaGSSkOROOr O50. CUCG 6900,.0605 55 005R00 ore 351
inp Montsomeny Countygesee sae elaeere te intee = ate meatier 352
in: Clay County ice staetesatnrcieiorse ae sae eee lee ee aera ete 302
in Holt County.......weioceetees a Nou reflarerctehrs SO 354
in’) ohnsoniC ounitiyico-eyo ast =i ele eee eee ere 354
on Sac Creeksscccewa celles iis RE et eee ee 304
on Shoali@reeks.ccwcrercictece ett iste eet eee eee 304
in) Saint CharlesiCountby+-<~ .<-n--1255 e's ee eee 354
ny Ol Pgs) It) Be oko ceeecees enol Fase Oo Dob OOo coe SoDoSO secs 304
on Gasconade River..-....-.. gibt MA es A 304
on Aux) Vases Blutfan. 60 es ie a eee eee on 395
ateAShibmmne hoe 5s Ee ee see els see ete meine eter 399
in RallsiCountys-52. sss. ssa qodacese cee soe os =e eters 355
on’ Gedar: Creeks .2o24 23020. SeSee ae Secret emai aeaeleses 395
in) Boone County ss4ss4-sse) scaiela tas ene eee teen eect 355
in Brankdlin iC ountyisac. sete) yt et tere alae eieae nee 300
atiBeRmers Station jsanceeless= sole eee eee eee eee 355
on i@rows Bork... 5. .scs< ase5 50555 Joet cate eeeee eee eee 355
on Spencer's Creeks .252snss52<csssaenearsss eee eee eee 355
in Callaway.C ounty . S52 sesso sate es cee er eee tee ene 305, 356
Near Mian «soscss ssasatess aadssosedsests Siosdeee tear te 356
near, Cote-sans-Dessein. .-.. --.. <<. .2-. sccee BS OCUD HOOnge 396
in Saline County .......--. <<. Jace. ore ote. eee 356

<<<Page: 618>>>

Page.
Missouriermplementsrsscscsess ss seco e aceon oes cease oneetesescltaciwicwes 356 i Cole: County ss ce ocae eee este cee ccee sate 357
in) Montromery Countys--c.-soccsesssclson see cscs cole 357
insMoreaniCountyaseses este e eee ee seeacciet osc. = 357 InsHenry; COUNLY=222 scceccs ce ceee semen eee ecece ec csee 357
Human footprints sare vases2 2222522522, feeb eee rere eee Leas 357
ine J ettersomCoulbyeese eee eee sae eee ee ss 357 from Gasconade County.----Peete ste cee acres 307 Schoolcraft, respecting 252222 sees. eae <-l-ma ae = 307, 358 Coxsplia a arespecuin@e assess eee ae ereee ee aeons 358 Benton, Thomas H., respecting. ..-:..5.---.-.--308 Owen? Dry D* Ds respecting S22. 2-+27 ~~ «= 2 -—309 Mitchell, Brainerd, on mounds in Pike County, Illinois.......--..----..----. 367 WHOL MG COreOt@res cass sssces bese esa etsc Seb. +2 cha tee enc mesteciose wsemccce 70 Mricholl Mariagsscesnassccsssccscsesstseseees co8s chi eloste eee eses scce cece 488 Maller eb roteAxels: Sz sss esses ss escescse seeks t eee se cess lee estos seen 503 Moline My mounds means asses 2ca2 asec ess casts Seka tecsce cece ee cee sose 363, 365 Molluskesnewrtormsiof,-tromeAlaskat-essae et fc coae sess seca ceecel css aco a 33 Mombusho of Tokio. contributions bys: sos scaccfcce ccc ceeeeee see coos cea 67, 68, 69 Montana .anciontioxeavationsiN=*.ssssssacsssses05c5she stecs cen css cece 327 Prehistoric remains in=terss was ss ssss FSS S26 Soe see Sekt cee ee chen sane 327 stone-heapstinese sess a2 see ee eee es ae ee eee eee 228 Montgomery County, Missouri, implements found in -......-...-..---------357 MOUNGS My ee es same ce ete ses, <scc es sees aces 302
NonnmMentsingDenmMarke sees sae ee sooo et icac ces scciscleccccccese cscs 303 Moores Lhomas and! others yOntishessoccs sess es -c0-% + ese cscs cascec sosn-sc 33 Morean, Moretinirintplementsiromier een so ses obs. ceciccc cee cess coneioo sees 357 Morehouse: Parish, Wouisiana,moundslin 2.222. ...+-22-5 e-n--2-2 o-oo 386 Maroy OorA, ANLNTOPOLOMy pesos css see een coc ccc sscese tse ceaclesss ss-5ee 430 Morgan County, Missouri, implements found in.........--.-----.----------397 IMOLOCCO mpOtLery Lom sete ae ene eee oe sees icce coe ccc cis see cc aele csc ssc cs 42 Morrison bservatory,, Glasgow, Mozs2s2.22522.2. 5222220 Ua Sus. oes 469 ESET OW 1) ODA AN CRTOPOlO y= se= ae a ae sone stocne Uecitoe aude oe sac aleme 439 MoscowaUniversitiy: Observatorysecs sc ceee secs nee cone ceeissoscs sees s5 cco 504 MoondiCity,pMinns mound siatweceeseee a sites ce oe Pen ele oeecee selaels 425 Mounds at Eden Prairie, Minn ....-......:...--..---SHtRE Lee eee 425 Mantis ah Herguson sont; Minne. sos eset S. Vlei ses tisult Bess sess sce eee 425 SipMoun de CihyapManngeer es aoe etie eee ace os: oe ce cles semesters Saleem ere 425 inpHraMichinuc ountyeslndianaeess sess cec cae cles St cee ener en satan 70 inVllinGissassaacsc. cea tects fo ss. ei. 341, 359, 363, 364, 355, 366, 367, 368
AMP MISSISSUP plkeee eee sees oes see See Ot teers nes cease cies aya 383
imp MISSOUTI Seco secioe see pate ee DOPE eetisos 350, 351, 352, 353, 354, 355, 356 im; Morehouse Parish, Louisiana --.. 1<.\..52o522 as accere daeees s2=5 386
My MUsScabine COUMbyswlOW are cm a> sie s socioe ese ete eee steele aieea= 309 iin Soyeaveran, IMG, 355556, ohod Goer Daa OSe Sno DOnooS .cootas béascd onSne 392
Tin USS) IDES Miia! Welle Been eo ee ssaceOoObeeS CEA Osc Obeoco Soceed aoce 344 ITUAV VALS COMSIN et tecmion chcecicl ceicinaree bese e cose Soe e eo ee esate 335, 339
MEAT OtoUMiW awl Ow deers s cee 2s ec clece cee eine ee eee teen ciate ase 344 OmbushiCounty-in dismaes sscen secs ccleoeaes eee ccm clncdse ser cota ate 374
; OniGiIGeom swarm.» MInMeSObap sce sso since ss seeelea=ltseene riser ie iatar 422 Mount Lookcut, Ohio, Cincinnati Observatory .........----.---. «----2-----475 IOWA O sosda5 533255006 Soe ne BEEBE DEO EROTIC OCIS OO BOSCO DCO Coop CH enoOSeac 473 Mumford, R.S., anthropology. ..-.--------..-ROS 8a5 Unb snododoobbeudotocase 441
Murray, Ferris & Co., acknowledgment due .... 5.0... 2.20 220s coon ee none nee 51

<<<Page: 619>>>

Page.
Muscatine, lowa, mounds near ..=. .icscse~ cactwtcnesceaseewces ee ePeeeEemes 359 Museum in Mexico presented cast of calendar stone.......--.-...---Wapgcoad 41 of thnography, Copenhagent.25.42.2802 et oto eben ca ee eee eee 302
of Northern Antiquities, Copenhagen...--......------.----.---300, 302, 303
Myers: Mound! Florida :.2: 2.232 222. Geoees secs toe Oe ae eee 396 NashvillesTenn:, Observatory —.2<2/cs.Scns se cee eee eee eee 475 National Academy of Sciences, meetings of: 5.2...scs2 252 Sa-ces oeaaas enous 63 National Archzological Museum, Copenhagen..........-----.-.-----------305 National Museum 2 22s... 5 cece eer ec ee aoe ee ee eee 5, 65 Off Crs Of .25 22 sss sete coe Se see Sse Vaoeenven cose 5
fire-proof, building: 25 s.e ees oon dae le stee aster eoewee 11, 121, 122
acts Of COngTess x.'jcastt aoe Sasnigoo sen wason cs coee eee eeeeeece 115
archsological collections in's-5 42-2 e =e ee eee 23
proceedings of.. oietet ast ceioce oe See oo neeees ee seers 27, 32
bulletins Of. . 3555S sess eee Se ee ee eee 29
Object Of ss. a's neivemee net eee ee hee eee eee 65
INCTOASE OLS a5 = J aeicerasssuscsseerscaccon see ee eee Gee eee 66
relation to Smithsonian Institution......----..-..--..---.65 collaboratorssssessceeen eoee ee ibaa Wales Moking bose hese ae 66, 67
DiTds; ss sts ects tesele aise! sateen ets bee eeeere oes 66
Mam Mal oi ecepaietion ascctoc neato Meseiomee eaten ree 67
appropriations) by, Congress: ..s-c1-225 eee eee ee eeeeeees 121
Building Commission: (455.2. aces s5ssee soe See eee eee 125
acts of Congress establishing-.--..--... 125
memorial to Congress..-.......-..--125
Parker, Hon. Peter, member ---...-.--. 125, 129
Sherman, General W.T., member of.. 125, 129 Meigs, General M. C., consulting engi-
NCL tO 2 sSo5-e os asus ere wee 126, 128 Cluss & Schulze, architects to..-..-.. 126,140 Leech, Daniel, secretary-to.......---. 126
plans! forbulldin ge sesee ee eee eee eae eee eee eee eee 2 Clark, Edward, approved plans.--..--.sligeeseciase Lee 126 Baird, Prof. S. F., member and agent... .-...22.-225 2-5-5 126, 129 modifications of the plans permitted......-.-...---..----126 Hobbs, Thomas J., disbursing agent...-....--.-..--------126 heating apparatus for building....-. -... 02S... c2 2 leo ee 127 cases for the Dullding os. sssces sco) is= = see a ali seacceumen 127, 128 SecretarycrOf Mle 55225. < se <ic|s aes ee ee eee eae eee 128 Rhees> Walliams. SenvicesiOlscesss ee assera e eee eeeee ae 129 reportofanchitects-s~:2 S2-sacceecisoecrdase aoc eee eee 130 Natural history of Arctic America,contributions to.....-...-..-...-...----ol ot Hanning islands: s2seccees onsen eee eee eee ene eee eee 30 of Hawaiian’ Islands 2.220 soa .cacsue aes soetiesten Desens 30 of Kerguelen Island sss. 02-24-00: anodic see sean one 30 of ower Califomia > .2.: 52-2. -os eee eee ee ee eee 30 Nebraska, anthropolopy-..---5. 4g-eeele ne ene ee oscee ese eee eee 430 Nelson; B.W.., collections by)... 5522. cceue--cee aes aeeee serene seer 42, 44, 67 Netherlands ane rican Steam Navigation Company, acknowledgment due -..50 New England States, anthropology. :2n.5-.--2-seeee eee =e eeleee eee eee 447
New Haven, Conn., Observatory of the Shefiield Séientafis School of Yale
College. 22.5 .25<\ Sapo eee ws ees lee cceret act eee seca eee eee 477 New Jersey, anthropology... 222. <<. ccc. nccees cuweees coo stese te eeeeeeee eee ome 445 New Mexico, anthropology: -; o.<..-=-c =.-ateteeee seen eeeeue aes. seo aetes 429

<<<Page: 620>>>

Page New; Mexico; explorationspins=\-5<.<<<ese sacs sascoaces auce cei tieleiace ences 42 New York and Brazil Steamship Company, acknowledgment due....-.-...... 50 New York and Mexican Steamship Company, acknowledgment due........-. 50 Newavork anthropology sessa cscs nial Sioa a aeme ae Hero cee eae ee ae 444 Museum of Natural History, contributions by.-....-....----.---. 67 New York City, N. Y., Rutherfurd’s private observatory ..-.----.----------479 Newincton. Conn: Observatory: s=seca=\sstssis Scie eee eo ccyo oa eee Ose Soseceees 478 Wewion, Ha ward.collectionst Dyas so-.scse ss cosas ca sccle accor eticoaccesiecee 68 NEM LON Wists ssf aM CH LO POLO Dypemin dy goals arabe ainlal sac we dae ninestes es ONetaaas Soceyeeee 433 Nevis Georces ech tromls a Naana sas es oo Jaan desc aro Fon nodaw See ee cae 58 NOt. Creek eMissouri; MOUNCS ON ssas.js5c0 552 soca cee canes sane pee eeeee eae 352 North Carolina sanbhrppolomrye sc sco 52555545565 aoe ins scee este ee tesa soeeeee 446 fisShessiTOMysss 2s sajecasstos crass sacs sa cisiosee aoe tcieeee 33 Northfield, Minn., observatory of Carleton College. ....--....--Qebecog dons 479 North German Lloyd Steamship Company, acknowledgment due....--..---50 Norris, P. W., on prehistoric remains in Montana-.-.......---.....-2---------327 Northwest Eb renchihalt-breedstin the sec ss. gosc\-55= -1-1an seein cioeeiee ce ee/ sence 309 MNorthwesticoast, anbhropol 0pVjessectases 1-1-0) stoniciawidietewiatoee we eeeel seeenieee 428 Nutter, Frank H., on mounds on Gideon’ Sifarm, Minnesotasseessseessetee ses 422 Nutter, I., peumonoloes SEC00 BOOS EOL apoE 6ba5 DOOUOTIOEEEED HOGERa.coneodcassec 441 PEVOLUT TO bolus, \COUCCHONS 5555 sors sated sas cia Sos aic\s cae d cami aiwels coos ce elses 300 Ober sh Aq. collectionssmad exh yassaan taaeacare oats iorw'o gat tare wrote wiayonetae ee eee nie 34 OxploraulOnsraseassocetessessssas oases sod occas Miseseesees cecees AT @pservatories,-American,.reporte One ss. sosecose ob boos sabes casos dssaeaee 535 Buropean, absiractsofreports Of 225. seo). deee coc coeslscee 577 exchanging astronomical discoveries. ..........-----.---.---20 Getler, Arthur; on stone cists. near Highland, Il ........226 2220 s-2222.23-5366 Gantt, HM. anthropology ee ae sees So cade Sb oo. hoe secant Scsosiese 447 Ohio, eine polnee Soiteisajas eters seis op aitararaeaies seis old oe ea Sis wie Shwe caseleaes 438 — Ghio State: University, obsenvatory oft sa.22 sacos5 50S. Sees tet aece ceases 466 Orasted) Prank, /anthropologys sas .crtoada cei ti coet Secs dcaseoass etostssesees 429 Ones celisn anthropolopyje sacsccyecsis suse clea a:5 oo cecddse saws soseaaasee woes 436 OPI LES CIM CIOs o5> Spt N Seat SATA ect rowrowin: rss Ea SEIS a oe ee 18 Gre On ARLTOPOlO PY cas 2e a-ak oat acceeosciawn coca Soca SAbauedaive wacelouee 428 MAES MEO) {52 8a/94 oS eA Soe so aece a oo dk ook SUN eee. Cees 33 Origin and History of the Smithsonian Institution, by W. J. Rhees.....-..--27, 28 eouonduioun ds Mlorid ay sevrcis care test eters obi Sok eta asks Se SSO Aaa 396, 397 Groen illiam assistance Dy 2c os ee Sesto ous dance esac ane eae 19 Grae River, MIssOUEr, TOONS ON -5-25 505-5-nio2 so see aman eens 354 Osborne, H. L., investigation of deep-sea cod fisheries. ...-.....--....--.---74 Gsborne,, Mrs specimens. collected) DY. «.+ <J 2 seeiwercuiwistcae anew eeiew eee 68 Osgood, Aipece ANUNLODOLO My gas asia sine alse sistaisacls s\cisleehce eater eerste 447 OstenBacker: Recatalopue odip tera soss5 s<06 =n saisyeiscieeeeeleee cece s 26 Ottman, Dr., en OfPMOUNASION 5275/15 -1ainn) sis aa a ataiseinene ies ames ee eee 363 ERM IWa LOW a eIMOUNGS NOE 622) 5 Sarai oc.0. oja0,-19 roaiacrate eae eee tee sees 344, 345, 348 Wxericese, Jouns farm of, STAVOYAl OD sais <5 <<ccsvete ai Jase eee a wice ae 375 Gwen, Dr. D;D., respecting, human. foot-print,...---2.s-.s--.c 928 secaeeenee 3959 Gieeieaied MSA ULV CE SEUNG 2.25 << fa'c.~ <0 sin wicinei dis ate win\ oe ees eRe RNS IS 482 GRSBDETS : LEB Rg bean ts Foe deat arsig ta ars woven aan rots eNO ose eon) = Siac 18 Pacific Mail Steamship Company, acknowledgment due ............----.---50 Pacific Steam Navigation Company, acknowledgment due.....-...-.-.-----50 RAEN G Ne ORRELO NOLOGY: 2..).'3) 122 ~'1a2 adalcepaas dacienies odes Stasee este ace eee 441 PALLET PAL NEReH AY DUILGIN I .:2 = <2 cae dednasesdea itera oe saat wees a 135
Palenque Tablet, memoir on, by Charles Rau ....-.--...-.--.. eecees -o02-eee 23

<<<Page: 621>>>

Page. Palmer JOSS ph hax CSCS boat ceieaeeiaeat eee ele se $6 2b25 cosa us5dness 5 Palisa, discovered: planet). .t:<ciseereoacie ce =m seteeiasee eee ee pple Basi. 5 99 Panama Railroad Company, acknowledgment due ...-.....-...-----....--.50 Papy/s Bayou. blond, mound eaiti eee areeaeie alana =a Eee cies 3 408, 409 Parker, Hon preter nhegent). sees ase eee seats eee tap ete faite tate ee 4,141 reappointed Neventbicscames ons soe eee anaes eee 13 member, of executive committee .--2... .s55e. <4. sas—e6 4 member National Museum Building Commission. ....--.. 125, 129 report of executive committee ..-..<52Sseciecaciee secs 124 Parken Mounds, pUlimolS nea pees eee actee eee eee ieee tere @elslatd 13% 369 lead nbasth, Ie Kerbay Wile Seo ce seco Gooond aco so0 Geos Soe a OTe Seog 46s62 Sone sees 462
Ranks, Warham, anthropologyjecna. -s-m)e se = none ete aetie aie eeleaeta eee 43 Jebignwkoleys, lel, 18K Pholdontoy Oar coocas Sooe cso Sse CNN S555 5005-0 con on 6sop ease 435 lem ely Wissecee ososco so sccg os0s osnas6 BdES BSS CAIs SOE ORES coon Se Seto aSso6h 490 Payne; Walliam Weise mats eveeiecucte seis eee ei“ se ies tee ee hale seer aie ete 479 Peabody, Museum; co-operabion Of .-=ce== 446 == See eee eee eee jen 42 ease, Aj Pb, anthropology -caer sseelesssiasem = eteee oeeieaetete ais oat tose ieee 439 ease, Wi. 3., anthropolocyes a. scene sssices --ceceeeraaron ee soe eee 430 Pennsylvania. anghropolosyscemssee sos eee leee eect e-p melee ae) ee See 445 Pennsylvania Railroad, acknowledgment due.....----.-----.---. .-5.-.-<--50 Berry, Wallliaim) Pisaac.sacfmions a -siexs asi eecimncicsisie seinem eee ee oe eee 472 Rersia, pottery frome asc. 7-se ee ee sseae en seer ee etelaeiiee ieee ieee eee 42 eters) ©. cele tuesaaye> eSee Saeieiaer eee eres sie Siosisyaisi= 5, a esheets Ree ieee 22, 465 Reyton; MisspAmnie di. santhropolocyes ese oom esteeea ae eee eee eae 447 Phelps, Ns .Y.,_ hed) HouseObservatory. sscescce-e 42 eee ao eee eee eee 483
Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, acknowledgment due ---5 Philips, ‘D. A. anthropology ac-2 o-.0.432 shee eee et aie eee aa 446 Phillips, B., assistant for census work of Fish Commission ..-.--.-...--..----75 Bhillippis Lom, fonds, mound (aie ...-sssee eerie beeen ee ee eneeeeee : 410 Photographs,of Professor Henry, =... <2s2e0) aaissoloseiesel os aeeiseitstos <i 12 Physics, present fondamental conceptions of -...--. ..---.-..---------.---485 Pickering; Md wards C2 a. oj. see gece, society sacnje see aeons 462 PikeiCounty, Uilinois; mound sane esses eee ante socao sodsosee > BE HOO 367 OT ANOS UNS <2 = aaj an olspecacis seis epeisin seieselal oe ae eee 367 ike County, Missour: moun dsyine see eee see ieee ieee ieee eee 350, 355 Fine Key,,Florida, moundion. 92-28. -cesissc-erle seal S oan Ee eee oe eioeeeets 404 Pipe from mound near Muscatine, Iowa ----.----ecclacsisisinin se aeeee tp eeee 362 Pisko, Dr. Franz Joseph, on the present fundamental conceptions of physics485 iRlanets discovered iam 1879 Some aa era nne fee ncislas tae Se eieee lo eee etal 22 Plans for National Museum 22 = saci eisie v-oeresiseiseetes asad hee leer case 126 Rlasteringan: Museum! buildin oye ena --\aeeeigaeeieieioe te Sa ee eee ae 135, 138 Pleasant Point, Wasconsin: monnds)on\.<<-)c.--sscetasee Seles ee eke eee 340 Blumbing sn Vnseum) bouldimg ena ae eeree see eee Pee eee eee 135, 138 Blyer, ‘Charles Wiosai2a5cseis02.45 sais incinceeuesceeihscenees eee eneigee aeeeeaes 467 Pockets ofarrow-points found: o.oo eee ereieaeicivaeeie iss e se Pee eae 362 Rocock, Hos anthropology,-j-nncicmne neers acetate eae aoe eee eee 439 Poéy, Feline; notes! Dyjaan« o.cccesiemccisecnsee Beceee-Oaee peb cem Soenea Ee ete 34 Roint/Pinellos Blorida,~mounds| Of Sees ceee eee enclose eaneio eine See ee ear 406, 407 shell-heaps at<25sisc--ecm.<pismecee eee ie eee 419 Polar Expedition, How gate. --6 oe t tele ee sem tate cats lneetoaa eset ae de sciss 3l Pole flounder, discoverysof.,3.:): 3-2 )aseeele ees eee eee eee ee eee 72 Rope, Gearze, anthronologyg.-.-a=.255secincetabeeee wn niapocewtss@ud epee aoe 430 Porcupine, Canadian, occurrence of .-...----.--ajen nw nije la ole be wielre| alauibms iaimiois 33

<<<Page: 622>>>

Page Porpoisevol; manufacture lof .-.. .2s<---5-<< SceeO cadO SOS Sa SSH Ss pS aCoH 32 Oren Ura JOsephey. sand: obhersonlishes)seeeeee soe eee eae eeeae tone oes 33 Soren Noah: Regents jal soncisciscie aes te es nee See eae Gade ss 4,141 IROLOR AMS Oly LOLESSOLMELENTYy [aera soe ae wee wl Seel Naa ate See Se cee JS 12 OSiOH, ©. ANTHEO POLO WH aai<ia:Srcbaka ores hs HORNY SEO ae IE Eo 429 Eorterynancient,, composivion Of... 42.) 330A SS ee) 349 Brazilian, PRCSONLOM 45.5325 o 2. sess ven ca Oe Mo 41 from ynoundsynMllinoishas=esees asesisooe aces oe eee econ eee. 342, 343, 369 from; Monn AM MLOUIsIANS so. esos be SL SaS. Peas se se 387 from mound near Muscatine, Iowa... 222. 2.20222 256ecee cote cece cece 361 FLOMEMOUN ASH MAW ASCONSINY 13-11-17 5-\-hicto a cee isa ee eee terete cee 343
HLOMPS CHONGLICS EN Missin sass ae cis ee Eco eo Se ees 391 nperaves nel ike, County; Plinois;,..-.. 2 43.3seoee set eee cece 368 inesne)l-heapin, loway sess sss sc se o-S RES RI eee oes 347 Northyatirican presented <= a2ss cas 35 Saco acey ae done ea ete ees esee 41 HO USMAMPASLLO-p hy Sicaleinstibmbemroetsssttscee cle cetne ates ete ee a ee eee ae 504 Poughkeepsie, N. Y.,. Vassar College. Observatory... .: 2.0. eho. see esses 222 488 ROWeL and. Wis, obhnnologicalirescarches; 2-2. 44 Woods el Sega a; 39 Powel; urank, amMound, onilandiOls ss5-2c ss bose SRN oe SON a ee 375 Pratt, Capt. R. H.,. assistance rendered! byy.es 22 vsci223s ose sS0 22228 Rese 43 anbhropelogy 22s 2eey seas sae ce RO ae. so ee 444 Cataloguefofcastsites.sis 055555 asec Sees ee ca 34 Grehistoriciarticlessyresonted Musseue sess eee. echt ock ose SOIR. ck 41 GyidencespimeMissOuriny fess. ease aos cetacean eee See te eees cone 350 LOM AINSI MONtAN Ae oes ayo haae She eee ee ee ees cee 327 Preservabion orantiquitiesin Denmark: = +<..s-o52-sccc0.Soes UU MLE. Lone 299 of collections, appropriation for 2.2.2. .J.2.. 625.222 see se ee 121 expenditures: css. sea. Ses ees 122 POCOLP US pereeiopnsisley oes Meter eae ev eaicey ae ea te 122 Primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points .........-.-..----..--.---376 Rn CHOLG CORES Whe S5A= Saas oaiscisitaass soe Sas, a ed ae 469 Pe CORCEiNC eV Eoce> sac one ooahea eeeeese aa nu! clea Mee ce 469 JMO hs EIGN) Cope conetenoowoeser Beers ese useeyet aioe bases = See Re eR Eee 490 Proceedings ofthe National Museum <2... 2-22-5205 .2250) i524. S028 27, 32 Erovidence,/W.. 1.,, Seagrave .Observatoryr: sssescs seth ee eb Ree 484 Provincetown, Mass., Fish Commission work at .......--..-..-.---+--+. ---72 Beet RC DINOS) ou. So/S5 2 See Muoccet access acne MNS Sarees Gee Lee a 23 Contribubions to Knowledge. s2522.55.55.2 S4c8 ete acdek ee 23 EXPENSES! Obes 5/25 os srapsiniss Sea Hans ee eee ee hes 119 ATID UMITLES In eNNeSSeOl yaseeiecyse aajeae none ee eee eee ee 23 JONES; JOSCP Ls sMOMO MD yao ee meee ona ote eee eee eee 23 Habel vSsyMemolrby, <2 sca ssssees ee ae asec eee eee 23 Scul pruresioL Sava MuilCia cae cctese soe sees aoe eee eee oe ee 23 iRalenqueitablet, by Charles Rauys.-sssca-c2= eeeecee ee ee alee 23 DallPWe-H..tmem oir Dyson sssceas wscar oc cence ee oe eee eee 23 Rau, Charles, memoirsaiby~ «2026 2 es) todo eee sone 23 inicermaria,w by. El... Js Clank sy.scersa5 sas sere ccerens stone eee es 26 Clark, EH. Ji.5, Memoir Dykaacscccaasccs cise see ee eee eee eee 26 Geology of: Louisiana: 2%. rss. 3 GIR eS 5 26 Bilgard, EB. W., memoir Dy 5..s53ss01552s4 he ss aees sac eaee 26 Internal Structure of the Morthi.s2sserseoscnjpe seen send eee eee 26 Rhees, William J., History of the Institution ...............--. 27 James Smithson and his bequest......---.-. 27
Smithson, scientific writings of.........-...pagels Hecate ates 27

<<<Page: 623>>>

Page. Publications—Continued.
Smithson, James, and his bequest -..---.----------------s-<6 27 Journals of the Board of Regents........-...00. secs cene-. --527,28 Proceedings of the National Museum ...--...---.-----.-------27, 32, 34 Chitonidemonocraphioh es cee.leemialeseianer = ate eee ett 28 Carpenter, Dr. Philip P., monograph .........--+-------..---s 28, 29 list of zoological genera << \2o2e annem aanicee eee aaeeee eae 29 Scudder, S. H., list of zoological genera..........-------.-----29 Bulletins) of the National Museum =.= 222222 S6-. 2222 ecesee eee = 29, 30, 31 Reports of the United States Fish Commission -......--...----37 on ethnology). 2: scien emanate Seema eb ee see eeoee BERSES 39 lekan eel dio (Eps waersoe reo oo5 Bene Koon ceae Sho Geos cocrSS amos 26 IHW, ID) (Cia Ta MOP Pe 655 55 posc ooo cond ebones posses sce cass 26 Drochilids, snonograph: Of) --\-oeamennjaaceeeteiee Slane eee ee 26 TEE NON? CE oo 5605 6555 155505 9005 S805 Sone 5606 usdsa0 sono Cscis 26 Wood; Drives © isindys0f fever so-etes sen eeae atest eee eat 26 Miscellaneous: Collections: seis es ee oe se 26, 27 Strepomatidse, monographiofs-—sas-eesse se ease eee=ee ee aes 26 Tryon, iG. We, mone praph|byeaostecseentsee aero se eee taeae eee 26 Osten-Sacken, R., catalogue of diptera ..........-.----..-..---26 Diptera, catalogue) Ol aceleaeseclaaeateein ee eee eee ae ee aera 26 Toner Mectures sass anita sersisincsao eee ee ee eee eee tee eters 26, 28 Shakespeare, E. O., on reparatory inflammation of arteries .-.26 CoC NEB NRS) (C10 CODD EN a ono Gob mg CBS E68 BOSON 65S9.9=51055 355500 2065 26 ibusiness/arrangementsio. = peccc= aoe aleelteentee eae tea ee 26 JIStiOf Mi brates snemete eee eee sees see eiee te See eeaeattetetate eter 26 list of Smithsonian publications. ...--..----. seeesives dooce 26 history,ombhewnstiay tl Ont eee seeieee = ela eelee ete aetna 27 Quarries, aboriginal’: 2. meee = nor eee eee ele se === ome =e 373 Quartermaster-General, co-operation.......--.ese. ----------2+ --=== 39 Quick, Edgar R., anthropology .-.. --------eoee0s cone oe ene enn e eo eee eee 438 moundsn Indiana eee alee er ‘sto(ate vielen ttle le BeeE 370 Quincy, Ill., mounds near... 1. < -o0 scene ceneenne caine sen sis-iemiueme == == -==—5 341 Quinn, Moses, anthropology ..-=.. <--cccccenncletis Stine eo sel-ssSipecs nee s-== 444 Raleigh Lassiter place, Louisiana, mounds on ......--.--------------------386 RallsiCounty, Missouri; mounds\iny-)-ceeceses seer alae een eee 355 Ramsey, Hon. Alexander, member ex officio -.------Lance wee eae eeu 4 Randolph, vl. is anthropoloty ae speseacke seo eeee acetate eee tee eee tea 439 Rappe, Mr., human foot-print.in possession of......--...-..------+-2------357 Rathbun, wt. WOVestleablOns sseeiese ele —ce) = scieleeeeeetee ee aoe ae eee eee ee a 70 Ran; Charles, jassistant .-sc.gecccnc ss sos pone ecee eee tee eee eee ) collaborator sss.)52< are seciesan ewe cactee heer ee eee eee 69 TOOK Oh, coeSO Gorm BEOb CaSO Bond HSO00G G2058000 doscocscis soces 23 Read) MC. antbropolocyie ap -aceeieene seein ae eee eee ae ele el ea 439 Receipts, Armory” building... .......-6 ..0c.cs0sce sce dice eesees te sseea-==ss 122 contributions toethnolopyss--o--) case see ee eee se eee ee ae aete 123 Tn stitwtion Jeon, 06.000: ciqajetenaicstasaias ocean eentoietc eo ace ae ee eee oeate 120 National Museum: yj. jj). sino aicceis eee eres =e eneaemeeeee Peet preservation oLicollections = -.24-)----2.eeee eee ener ee eel e a= a=eae 122 RedwHouse Observatory, ebelps; Neo teenie lal lee eee eae 483 Reed, Mrs. A. J., on finding of Indian relics.......--..----.220 cannes sence 370 Reed, Davidih2-2sceeene eee eise hice apatlobe diss ted bscte dope Sa eee ee 470 Reds, J. Ki. olecosseeteeeseeeeed theta ee paeeeen ssw ese eee eee eee 486 Regents of the Institution.......--..----Sotieh Hat ee ies ae oe 5

<<<Page: 624>>>

Page Regents of the Institution—Continued.
POLIO LO MMC tert ev cicie aco mcm eis ale Santer s eee eae ene se SS Ae 13
elechionsandsappoimtmentiof<25: cence ee eee hens eee esate eee eee 13
fucligionof Shoshonésior snake Indians... ..\. 0222. ssw. 20. Je eeeete see an ak 328
Remains of man in the Aleutian Islands, memoir by W. H. Dall.....--..---. 23
REPMVMEN(Gs. 225. sasae esos sa saesue ores se sso ot eee eee see 120
RUGHOVIS ALN UGE oS ate NaS S Sees chara 5 Vaan boss See Ne ee ee Dn eiee PaNBY
accepted yeeccn cases Sas sas elsos eee cee Sete eee Coe ee a 142
frepulleshn National Musediinssocse.s .as ss's4 beast oe ee ees 68
TOSCANCHES IE So saat ee ctee ce seca e ee ahaa faces See eet ee ceeies oes 70
erick JONES. ANtUNTOPDIOly > 52s Siclasc cos «0 5-5.)ok SAuoeee Saree eyes 438
HEPSCALCHOS Eee cigeae cre eee se soe SSeS eto eee e ess Rh ce ee 17
PORANGHEO POOR ye sa aceite comets oe a wa close sc ata so oa So Ge Sao 38
EXPENSES Tarai sso semis cule morse ee eta cae ae loere retry walacs ety manic ae 119
Peso uhOns Dy) Doar. Of ROFONtS= 22. 2p cece s see. CSC ee ES 142
Hesolution: by Congress, to: print report .:= 22.5. 2oee Sess sees eek 2
respecting statue of Professor Henry -.--...-..-..--13
relative to the Smithsonian Institution and the Na-
Lona MAISeNM Hessel so cee oom eae sacle ecetnae 115
Restoration of ancient churches in’ Denmark 222-2 425.2 bosses. lec chee cece 308, 309
BUHGUS EW El at def CHLOE ClORKS 22522 Sodas ssaitcs Joe Sates uae see hoes oe eee ae 4,5
account of James Smithson and his bequest.-..-.-.-..-.. 27,143
Journals of the Board of Regents.....----.-..-...2..----27,28
Origin and History of the Smithsonian Institution........ 27, 28
Valuable services Ofes s2is2 jascac costes ean se se noses 129
ead epi haley soe seeisech et ences ces eee cota oses. Sesee dl Ee 5
hachardehush steamer -exploratiolicsess=ce sseees cee e soos beets eee aoe 45
PACH ATASON Ws, i .5) ANCATOPOLOLY = cases sss cw sce ccne seta ies eceaote tek oases 447
PAEHATUSON,: Wie. s ANURTOPOlOMy: cscs tees bese sas Losses stk ts See eh eee 448
Rereios stu Wier AUtHTOPOLOD Ven caste cece lccona te teei cee fe ates Ree ee 441
HMCUOLUS WEAN! Coss ss cnsnces case seetine ac casee sone tebe ve Vee eens se 489
PE MewayapiODenb: ASSIStAME ss cas. cou seen ete tose see es Set ST SSeS TAPES 5
collections: SSaAsea wer once lees See eos coe cs ee 67
curatorotiormuhologygeesese eee cteer ene eee cee neta eee 69
MOLESYOMSDITAS ee csisec cote cele ces taco onene cee coat ac oe eee 34
researches, American bIrdss. 20. 20)52224. 22a) eee 70
PEO. Gs BOP OSILRWALH soa's cui cob amewiaiensmes ess <5 2 Satie kl dce eae eta 118
eactiosters N.Y. Warner Observatory..coseccsto.ssccencscteki beck eeoeeue 485
Peereialand County, OURS Ie = ios 3h. coe e eee eee. eee Fe 359, 360, 363
Pret eliea@ RAblOG PEC cla te cee coe ect eee eee es ce = nas cca ccioeea ate eee 488
ROCK WOrk, aneient,;Mmi-MISSOUrUceesoese cee ce sete soe u 2s Se 351
Poacers, ohn. roar-Admiral. <<. 5. sceesaseccw sl cls eesdt scene ueeee comes 490
Rivers micub raymond: Po.So./ fick eke Sethe es hoe coe ee ee 457
evo TOlnee. mounds On farm Of -)5 55 2oasafocs = tsetse eeeme ene ease see 366
EOpewlen eA. wh. + ait NTOPOlO GY. oc<c0fs2os acces cote S teas Pecunia ae ee 441
PRO PES MO An cere Goin ssct soos tees cee Sectees coe wwe Re CSU Nee EL 490 Rogers Ome. ,antiropology = 2-sSascesec caehses toses be teas canes bee: 456.
Ree Pea NER G Aer yehunts orator woo Semin acs see Nesce ee sane ele ouesciees see se 462
POSED EOt a Wars; Address Dy’. ~ cevccncemaaleenee Meee Ee, Cae et ak ib
Bietnie Or MOseUA DU CIN pt. \.,.spicis's ete ecavewesoeeeu core en eae SE 135, 137
Saye Aes Oe ANGHEOD OO LY. wnwciencncamecesaen= ieee cs wees -aease no ee ee een ee 440
PE OMMICET SDP GOON Lays cielo o foie tare seiwe min at ease ae eE eee eee te eee ee 501
urs in wine hiver Cation, Arizona... ...2ccce stue wees eeeade S202 cece eek 333
Rush County, Indiana, mounds and earthworks of..... eo dece Vee 374

<<<Page: 625>>>

Page. Rushlake; Wasconusiny moundsonte. ses ese eeeee ese se Stee eee 335, 336 Rushvalle;Ind=; mounds) Neal-se-. asses ele aie eee ee eee eee eee 574 Russell, Charles, presented Palenque slab .-...-25-2 -cs-tseasse-boes cee eeeee 24 Ruth; J. cA. vanthropolopycjss-ssccceses-e eee eee eee eee 446 Rutherfurd)-L., Ms... aloe es saceeeh = steee ee setoe Ace eo ee epee cee 479 Sable Island Bank, new deep-sea fish’ from'-==o---~ .-sse6 eoeeeeee eens sees 33 Sabin, Prof; A. JH explorationer ee cemaee soya eeeloeee eee cece cee eee 337, 339 Sac Creek, Missouri, mounds on..-.---.-ai oadeisierd se siee/scianeleeseememesceiceee 354 Saint) Charles, County.) MissonnmonmadsSiinia= sas] a= ee eee 304 Saint Louis, Mo., Washington University Observatory .........----.....---486 Saline County,y Missouri monind sin ==--)ssesae ce ease ee eee eee eee eee 356 San Francisco, Cal., Lick Astronomical Department, University of California. 486 Sanborn,.EBi, donationtbyosa<scsisoe eae e eae eee eee eee 63 Sandwich) Island;duek 52 22., 32 csseh 4. 1c So< de siee eteasie=s eee eee eee 36 Sand wichislands, explorations s-see. ese eae ee eee ee eee eee eeeeee 48 Santa Lucia, sculptures in, memoir by Dr. S. Habel.----..--.......----.---23 Sannders,: Miss R.. Gs Ssa85 ples eet ea acer saee cmeeee es ctgceeteee aes 462 Savage weapons at the Centennial Bakatitton, ptudyofssteeriseceee s-acneees 213 Savannah River, primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points on.....-.-. 376 Saxeis; Hlorida,burialamonundimestssssscsaee ener see ee es eee a ae eeeeeenee 399 Sayre Observatory, South Bethlehem; Pa.5..-+ 2.22255 -foses daeeaeee = 487 wchallenberver,, J 9M. vanthropologyes. ase cdosas2 saeaeeee eee eee eee 436 Schiapaxellli, Prof; Mais. 3222s cscteeee ence tees ae eee doseeep Esse cckscose 503 Sehindler, A= Zi. artish seeks ce tissek voids Jas Sepa eee eee bey eee 5 Schneck, J:,,anthropology;-seo. aes 295252 so ae ee Pee e ee eee 436 Schontelds Prot hese see cee aaae soe ee See ee ee ree See oo teeetieoe. SSE ee 498 schoolcratt, respectino humantoot-printes-s>-)-oeases eee sae eee eee eneeee 307, 398 Schwartzell, John, anthropology ..........---.-------subinosyeheo cen eteeee= 446 Schurz, Hon: (C. member ex-officio £225 5... 4acs seen eeeieseeea eee eee eee 4 Ncienvilic writings of) ames| Smithson sess. ssece eee es cote a eeeeebeeeeeee eee 27 SGops; notes ion 22 sesso os eae toos Sate ee ee oe eee ee eee eee 34, 36 Scudder) Mr. specimens collected by.cceeoe sane ecaiee ele eee ee Eee ee eee 68 Scudder, Newton P., investigation of halibut fisheries........----.---------74 Scudder, Samuel = listof zoological ceneraeeeneseneee aeeeeee esos eee 29 sculptures|of Cosumalwhuaparesssseesee se eee See ee eee eee ee eee 15 Sculptures of. Santa Lucia, memoir by Dr. S. Habel .....-.....--.----------23 Searcathsh, breeding apitsofsses--— == = so caneoe eee aeeee ee aes ecient 34 Seagrave, W. Biss. 2 52s a soce ce ceea ce ociec cae ae Rea aeSeeee eee Ie eee 484 Seagrave Observatory, Providence, R. ) RP ee Soe Seah aae 484 Searle, Arthur. 2. 522. accektosec ccs act scecaceeeaeneede ches Sees eee eee 462 Secretary to National Museum Building Commission...-..---.---...-.-----126, 128 Serranoid fish} new 3-22.55 os-.0es ose0 oes ccumeciesewe lose PER ee eee 33 Serviss, HIE. anthropolory2)..cci-cccmecwes see enceeaecle eee eee 2 433 Serviss; (\Gs9P rie soa ce Seed ic wae d Saloceslvasscunce coe seen ee eee eee st 461 Seward, Samais:, mounds on landsiof&a--s-2sses eee es Eee eee een ee eee ee eee 369 Héwerage in Museum building 27s. secce Set ee roc ee eer eeee ee See ee ee 135, 138 Shakespeare, E. O., nature of reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligabure) 220 Oe eee oo wince he eee eee ee ee 26, 28 Shannon, 8. G., anthtoapology 25. c2hes-cseceewe ene eee Eee oc. 1 See 446 Sharp, J. M;, anthropology =... ----2---shseccacnnses coe eee eee eee eee 444 Sharpless; Isaacez=.22s seas secese co scce. cob ewe cco. Bese e eee Eee eee A7Zz Shattuck Observatery, Hanover,.N. Hi. ..cice.cwnc eninenenecceneoeeae eases 470 Shaw’s Point, Florida, shell-heaps at...... 2... 220c0s cece seen Saun 414, 416, 418, 420, 422 Sheffield Scientific School, ohservatory Of... -....2. .2ccee eoecocece Joa sek : 477

<<<Page: 626>>>

Page. ShellPheapan Towa) .ssoc. os ss-ceccccs Sn5oce ceboco ndaée soa datos BoDSEEeoeodC 346 Shell=heapstinulllliin ists asetects cele; scienectoceeie class ace eee ele ee seo oa toes 370 Bnell-heaps of, Nampa Bay. Fuorida 225. sm sh canoes nse aeeeens nc cas owen 412, 413 msnellstromplaitchen-mid dense sanjmissere ao ante Selene en eee leeels acini wocces 35 RHETINANS GOneral Weide nacas escent te tele Sink ola Sie em LE 11 Beecnt 59.0569 Sods eebS O00 SoGsdels Sco Boop Gab6 sede eeee 4,141 chairman National Museum Bailgine Commission .... 125, 129 CO-OPerabrons 22 sass carseat ae 39 member of executive committee..........-..-----22. 4,124 BHerman, HON... J.,.MeMDEM 6X-OfiCIO aco «1c -\este sae abeneensescceee 4 ShoaliCreolk VMIssORE. MOUNGS OD. 35;ciom ce Secs eee ebeneee Weenie me hee eee 354 SehohantewNeaey En GIAnereliGs iLOMsaenoss ones cee eae eee eee 391 Snoshones Indians, se swer cece pe ciscnece calesemet Uduel Seabee cece cee 328 lOd ges RAs oayosws sassasesee clemtiatesces FEED CaCO er HEe De 329 IMANNEVS Se ceeiss se sete s slate Meisle ee Suse See ee eke ees 328, 331 tribalirélationship sss a22 ss = seis eee ceee ke cece s seek eee 329 PEM OTONE ayes Sethe ees cS ets Suicides se oe basciece ee beeses 328, 330 TESST VAMIONSE see tisee ioe obsess actelslense Saisie ewe Sess 329 SUPCTSLIbLONS ashe ie re ews Selcrealss aelese arse eee sow ccc ees 328, 332 Sibleyeekity aan LALO POLO myprse aoe ete ae ec He clac ee ee Hoses soeeloewe 436 Sion alapparavus TOL MTes\< 25.5. jinn csi ece cls omens soe see eee eceses soeses 19 BukersprompTear SCH OQHAriOs Neg Yasser sees tk cine Gane eel eas oncemecmns 391 Sisseton Reservation, Dakota, earthwork near........-.-.-...-.-+---------426 Hix NaniOns, .wampumi Helis Ofavhert erase ses os 24 Sleek eles based nss coe ccs 389 Skeleronein Mound wninGians 134 eset eetaee ses cc Saeco mw Soo scan cans ease 76 pcoeletons.irom graye near Hiphland Ws: oo. pot neces ne es hdeictec soescese 367 FLOMEMO UNA Seige MlM OLS se ceee mes eres oe eee eee eee ace ee 341, 343 FOUN IN MOUNESHAAWABCODSIE sees: Ais TEs hc ccc eee 343 RS Ka TAT OTs Atay aero eter Saye emer: tres nc) IU URLs Sa VEAL ie Pes Sc ara 490 Skinning-stones found, in mound.in-Whinois 5.229) 22222). sew eceiges ceo 0 soe 369 Sia bone immonndsin« lowalsecs santo 26 bes elds wats b Ns Bel le becosecues cess 345 SkullftromeMinneapoliss Minne pesneces see a osciamee se cate tee eccieces somecese 427 fromypmoundsingonisianacencee eros teen cue easeenmeseees cece eece 387 Skulls trom, crave nearmeichlandabe snsctooli: Wa Absa haSecc eases cose 367 FOUNALIN MOUNASAMPWASCONSINEE sees secs se misseeeseiane ee secece 338 found: in.moundsin) Missouri) 2255.50 Ot etek ace G let cy so. see 3593 Sloan, Hon. Robert, examination of mounds.-...........-------------------346 Rinne PLiGha ANGHTOPOLO Rian susisas so foe cell sos scgc stewleeUaideemesccce ace 448 Slates and slating in Museum building. ...... ...-..-------+---------------134, 137 Smiley, Charles W., in charge of Fish Commission office for census work .... 75 SEER CNG ATS MUGS 0) co) 10) ca 91) 2c) ee ee Br PY ee Pe ee 5 PUOLOoTApn Ol PraressoriHOenry.s-12 0s Jodelc aces selene nes sae s someone 12
BBai EO Sea sais see eetet te ese Sicl Sees eb Wsitoee) Lisls ae ebeaccess—ce 47 “SEPESIUAL SMD LEGS fia 1509 (05 C0 20 ee ae Re ea ae Para ne Bes Ra ae 437 inthis C.eancheopologyss + a/ss22 sissies Js tes ok Osh Honseataaaesjesos aaises'e 433 Smith, Sanderson; invesbigations: socs//ss-b 21 ta=nicSse ciemeeiasdeeace coco -osa 70 PUAUN ETO Obs, Mes AMONG: ~~ 4. 27a\\2 0-1 JalSetelecse ceeaigecad ooo ccs a 70 Smithson, James, and his bequest, account of, by W. J. Rhees ..........---27,143 lavordn Glave! pepnye Meier BOSE Ao Soub Goon eda dose cogdibece S866 143 feeling in regard to posthumous fame. .-..---..----. .----144 Jobn Quincey Adams in reference to fame of. ....----.--... 144 Prof. Walter R. Johnson’s remarks on fame of ......-..--. 144 education at, Oxford University.: 5-6 cocccccesc).c cece oon 145 PCIE OE Ob. na95 hood on05 cond dash come Sac desc bdc0 66056AC 145
S. Mis. 54———40

<<<Page: 627>>>

Page. Smithson, James—Continued.
earnest pursuits. Of Science =.<-~.<1--<|.ceet-o neice eee oon ceee ee 145 scientific: ambitions.) e een Joe ese oe cee eoeeieee doossss 145 Arago’s estimate of the Royal Society .............-.....: ' 146 name, James Lewis: Macie wc <<. eee seein betenneleeee -oes 145 recommendation of application to Royal Society --..-...-. 146 elected member of Royal Society (2--..:222-. ---. -.-.---. 146 tours andexplorationgiccicrcee Use ntce ee ese cece ae eae 46.148 portablelaboratonyie ese ses osse wee Se eelewes a6 seem wees eeae 147 cabinet of minerals. ..22-4 s<.25<. 82 ao eh oa eee 147 minute: researches'..«-r. sites rca SoS ee 147 privations encountered on explorations. .........-..-----147 extracts from: jourmal:<.-c--scees t2ccss eee eens Soe ee 147 friendship of eminent) savans=/-on. 2 se eee eee eee 148 presentation of books tO. << <22.s5 22 sasccticecolcee cncl--ear 148 Sir Davies Gilbert’s estimate of, as chemist--.....--..--.-148 Prof. W. R. Johnson’s opinion of works of..-....-.----.-.. 149 labors in mineralogy and crystallography. .....-.--..----149 Mottoron-:publications/ofe2=:se-sssenceeee eee eeeenee oe cess 150 SMiUthsonite 2.2. wees tease eases Cases wi eccees sees 150 analysis of vegetable: colors.<-.casecs 22 es sc oe eee oe 150 practical -value of: his researches..::-s-.ic2-.---2--.-2--150 notes and scraps found among his effects -.....-.--...---. 151 listiofi writings Of. ..... <<<-ss-ec Ss th ee See eee 151, 152 allusion.made: to other writers by...-25----.32-52-0-2--. 153 GeathiOl cs scocsvceviocsc secs at eeeLe e e 153 his monument.at Genoa xsi ccc wcteiccclsce seeleesctss taennes 153 Sir Davies Gilbert’s tribute to his noes? SO SAAMI PLS ae ot ae 153 analysis, ofauteal crc. cece nc cclcecack hen eee ents neat 153 remarks of Dr. Johnson and George Wilson on lack of de-
tails of private life of scientific men..-.........---.-.-155 no autobiograph§ of. .......-----.--EEA PC TEN) Parone eee ye 155 inventory of his personal effects -......--.-------.--.---. 155 personal effects transferred to Mr. Rush.........--.-----157 the same transferred to the National Institute .........--157 F. Markoe’s account of mineral cabinet. ..........-------158 notice of-various-portraits ofe 5-22 Shee ste cesar ease eaeer 158 personal effects exhibited in Patent Office.........-..-... 158 sane transferred to Smithsonian Institution.........----158 effects destroyedtbhy fire 222 223/25 Se oS ee ce 158 will.of; deliberately made <n. sen coc seceue ee eceeoees = 159 account of book on wills found in library .---..-----.---159 motives inducing the bequest to the United States-....--.. 160 scientific. activity. of. the period ..-..... 2295 Sooo sk accee 160 organization of leading scientific societies-.---...-..---: 161 remarkable advances in science noted by Arago ..---..--161 Cuvier's retrospect of the same. .. 2/55. 523 Sensis Jeces 162 educational progress of the period ---...... 220. ..2.-.---162 Lord Brougham’s effort in behalf of diffusion of knowledge. 162 Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge organized -163 purpose of, to leave fortune to the Royal Society --..-..----. 163 cosmopolitan spirit of the Royal Society...-----.----.---164 estate received from Col. Henry Louis Dickinson... ....---164 will of, proved in court....... sme aC ORE Os ee z 165

<<<Page: 628>>>

Smithson, James—Continued.
Smithson fund
INDEX. 627 Page etallsrotebhe wali a a =\scisieailaee) ce sinisieias sielerier=lesieia\ «l= leis 165 estate devised to Henry James Hungerford -..-...---.---166 elaimsloneMrs..derl a babu oes aeeee eee eee eels aii 166 decree of court of chancery relative to annuity to Mme. de la TRAM, ene See OnOC CGECCS Eapcnaloo na ovacce odnsad esiceae 166 first announcement of bequest to the United States... --..-. 167 President Jackson’s message to Congress asking for action Din ACES hace pimaen eee Denn Sood Beouse cosg cocdogeccedcse 167 proceedings in United States Senate relative to acceptance Me IYaOWOS Goce SodcnGecboocde Peete so eacouudocoud.soocHe 167 proceedings in the House of Seen ens relative to the SEITE: oho ona Baan Bone ROABNOP REDERASBDOE coat nEoaes Guacce 168 Hon. Richard Rush appointed agent to obtain the bequest169 character of Mr. Rush and value of his services .......--. 169, 171 suit of United States to procure bequest......---.-------170 delays incident to chancery suits-.......-..-------------170 bequest obtained by Mr. Rush and nature of the funds. .-172 transfer of fund to United States .-........ .-..--.-2----172 legislation of Congress in relation to the disposition of the LXeEC ES 255665 cons Sno oHs anaaseeees Uoudoepedc eacararace 173 President Van Buren’s request for plans for organizing the Smithsonian Institution....... 5. 2--------+-2---se-6173 plans proposed by literary and scientific men...-......-... 173 investment of Smithson funds in State stocks by order of Congyess....... sognnee hoon bouseolosoose Bo65 bosses second 176 President Tyler’s appeal to Congress for action in relation LPO) WYEO WKN so 5565 Soneeaaueg HOlodG SSEOnscoud GSaeeacc0uaos 177 discussion of bills relative to bequest......--..---177, 180, 181, 184 speech of Mr. Choate advocating library scheme ..---..-.. 178 speeches of Mr. Tappan and others proposing plans. ...-.180 speech of Mr. Owenadvocating] lan and reply to Mr. Choate. 182 speech of Mr. Marsh on plan of organization .....----.---185 action of House of Representatives on Mr. Owen’s bill..... 190 substitute bill by Mr. Hough for that of Mr. Owen adopted. 191 action of the United States Senate on bill for organizing Smithsonian nstiimtion:-.-2-\s-52 2-s-4-sase sees eane 191 organization of Smithsonian Institution -......--....--.-191 list of first Board of Regents ....-------------Pease sae 191 obituary notice Of -.<2 .2..5. cee cone vacances oo cwte cowese cone 193 account of the first Duke of Northumberland ..--....-.-.193 notice of the first duke .-.--2.2 2+ = sas 2222 enn e ns sce 194 coffin-plate inscription of Hugh Smithson ...--...--...... 196 account of Earl Perey, second Duke of Northumberland. -. 196 notice.of, paper on tabasheer, -..2--. -------«0. wsces~~ ~~ 198 notice of paper on calamines. ..-..---RODCDOO Dc1Io6CD LEEROO 199 illustrations of presentation of books to -.........-..----200 notice of researches of, by Berzelius .--).....5.5.--...--.-. 201 extract.from, scientific Writimes —... -----< 666 ---ccenecce 202 catalogue of library, Ofs---sse--2-\enneiwo see earircen eas 204 NOBICOOL Cluy OL WWAADINE TONS palace ee loc sicieslse aimee ete a 209, 210 93 SOO OOO EEOC DEO NOC ROD OCI COS SOMES SG RUC OOO CISD OS IOOaD aCe 15 condition of --...---A SNNGNG 9907909 Hoos dpe 05 2cos ODOGET OC i Smithson, James, scientific writings of .-......-. sipten became tee See c'ssejetes 27

<<<Page: 629>>>

‘ Page. Snake Indians. (See Shoshones.)
Solar eclipses, ancient «----.:5---0+-c--<CEO OUCCAG ea cb Bacon eam ccosee 17 South Bethlehem, Pa., Sayre Observatory ---. 22-5. 22.522 le coe wee ~~~ one 487 Spear-heads, primitive manufacture of, on Savannah River.......-...-..---376 Speedwell sareamern. so onsceere creer Hee eeee cee ee eel oom eae emtnaeeee 72 Spencer's’ Creek, Missouri, mounds \0nijs2e-e eo oenc ona e[-eeeelese eee elo == 355 Spoon River-Valley, Ulmois;moundsiin! sess occ asctee aa seeeee teem aloe ela 368 Sporer,) Protessolecee sets selene eta ee ele eee ieee eee eee ee ere ee aie = 505 Springfield Republican, anthropology ----.-Stove gsc SERRE PE ose ee eee 448 Saint: Croix; floraiofis.2 $2 solace Bees Se see es a eee oe os weesee 31 Stations of the United States Fish Commission -.----.....--....---.-------72,73 Statisticsioivexchaneesis sees eeee el sena = am ee eine saeeeeme eis eee teeta aa 51, 107 Statue of Professoritlentysasaeassosiss eee ones eee es sae eee bes oe inens 13, 116 Stearns, Silas, assistant for census work of Fish Commission ..---..-----.---75 moteron Guliimenhadene pose saceecwse-sclee ee wclce= ania miese : 34 Steel portraitof Professor Henrys. =sseeea-= geese eeelis se se-itosees ans eme 12 Steel; ‘testing of sisessntdscescet sees sae sages fossa eseeesees 6 dooce oSoace 18 Steere, Mr:; ‘collection of Brazilian pottery: ---22-tesceesieese eseeteaae waenlenes 41, 42 Steere; Prof.J: Bs, (explorations sec 222 ee ee eos deee ieee oo teteeee meee eo eee 47 Steeruwitz Wiebe vanthito pology eet aetaeeaeyeereleseieee oe sesieeree eee emier lems 444 Steindachner, Dr. Franz; note on Perca flavescens ....-.--+--.---.....-----34 Stella, J.P. ;anthnropolopy soho. see sock Geis lew eeontee soe eeereeaee $e tecsaer 444 Stephens* Le anchropolocyeerecsesecees soe eee eee eee ise eae ate eae eter 433 Stevenson; James, explorawnom byes eee eoeeies eee ees eee eee ence cnmtome « 3942 Stile’s mounds; Towa ease ae sts eset cic = saree teeta ce cept breetetclec cece cas 346 Stinson, Floyd, anthropology ~.-..--....--..---.---.6 BS COCO O SERCO CH EO Seee 438 Stockholm University Observaotyiecsseee sess eee seen eara esate s == a= 506 StockwelliGAG; anthropology-sse=. cece cere te cee hee en elsa eee elaine 435 Stoerzer! Ih:, clerktxs-#22-¢s ee eeee ae ee eee eseanes see eee e cc eseeeree 5 translation by eeeee =. eee ees see eee eee Sor lecehee recat scee eee = 485 Stone axe in mound near Muscatine, lowa---------5.--2.55. Jocec---------361 Stone ciststmear Highland Meet meee seeetsee sieee eee eee eaten a 366 Stone hammer from Lake Minnetonka-------.2--....222.----22-2----------427 Stone-heaps:in! Montana. 22-2 2e pee eee aoe aeetee SE SOAS Seisepccasls 238 Stone, Livingston, in charge of McCloud River Station.......--.... nigoca Cbse 73 Stone, Ornrond ses. teense e eee eee ee ee ee eee enone eee e sere necat-=eee 475 Stone, apparatustfor testing == eeeesc. ase) ente ee eee eee Bone eeece cee 17 Strasburg: University Observatory 3-225 20s. see fel See ceiecariccme aan eomene 506 RSUTEZISIS( 8) 6a 0 gee eee oe = 3 COMO Eye Ueee BBO SOCIO 259.3568 SOO SOS 501
Streets, Dr. Thomas M., contributions to the natural history of the Fannings Islands, Hawaiian Islands, and Lower California .....----..-..----.----30 Strepomatids, monographiof, by G. W. Tryon. :.---.22..2-2-2025-------2. 26 Sugar Creek mounds, Towa tes2s 000.5 Usaete sara Ue ee eee ces oaae 344, 345 Sumichrast, Francis E., collection of birds described .......--..----.-------30 Sunderland, Rev. rs b-,pray er bye. 2 eae ee eee ee eee eek eer ence =e 12 Superstitions of Shoshones or Snake Indians ........-.-.---.---------------328 Swan, J. G.; anthropology i. 22. ssls ses Se eee ais Meee Se ce See iee ee 428 Swenny, S., opened mound in Spoon River Valley, Illinois -.-....--.-------. 368 Swift, hewis 222250 :sagsassse5 se ESE Se Oe see eee eee ye eee 485 discovered. comets: ==s/a25 ssecneeeete coe eee ee es cecieces sare 22 Synopsis of the fishes of the United States ..---. 0.2... .222. --22 2-2. -o ee one 31 Tandy, ‘Mark anthnopologyassas=-asso sacs ees eee ese = ee lane eete= ete 437 Tampa Bay, Florida, shell-heaps of. ..:-.---.. .s..<--...Bet sescce cee eoeees 412, 413 Tampa, Fla., Vodger’s mound at .......scces cies ce ncad cece snces seates «= --25 411

<<<Page: 630>>>

, Page.
Tanner, Capt. Z. L., commanding steamer Speedwell. .....----..--.----see 72 IpeAarOnls NG WoO ESA Eh Ny, GoocoSsoeeeS CooO coo oS O5c5 SSooa0 S0ee SEE eer 488 Taylor, William B., assistant... -..-------2-ec<ens\ encase se -=0-2-7 sesnes 5 Telegraphic announcement of astronomical discoveries...--. ---..---+------19 Tempel discovered comet.--.....---...---Repen en Badees Seba noSCOu ese anoouEE 22 employs He ranbhropologyiea=-scismwice sie sealers seeteeie me eraeeeresa erence 448 Monnessee-.ANtMrOpO) OM ye eernvesccleseralsina (Komi ooeini=isemieaicieyeosiels HoeroL cena acae 441 Tennessee, antiquities in, memoir by Joseph Jones..--.-...---.--.---------23 Mest c SiONE + Ap Palais (OLE sas ma .ia= econ e ace sionally ee aieloeemee ene AlZs Mests madean therchemicall laboratory: << << =< .=<cnejo-selan esses) aes eee eee 18, 19 AROMAS DIGS LOM epee ekeninieselelelnla(= lole's ni elsiniefuininiosiaisooelos celee ee tenaiontle 34, 36 Thain Miss Mary F., sai ee tice eeebie edocs Maesth ee eee 448 Thompson, Theron, on mounds in Iowa and Iinois....---.-......---..----. 309 @honipson, Eons Ry W.,,memberen officio <=. sas aan cess oe eee ieieeiae = 1 4 Jhingran Wb, (Cxoyeye nl nny) 1 66 bade Cob Sed Boe OSNCEd Cone Con Seco bene on6o Bene 300 Thryomanes bewicki leucogaster, remarks On..---. .------<s.------25-+5e0 36 orvophilas ZeledoninG@escrip honor) ose oe nl seciaainie nate toe eee aoe 36 MatlOnisherdiscovery, Obs sce sce nals sein) sicisisnisesisiwiar='siainy'ataininy Sainte Salata orale eee 72 IM @UTOis IDE cod Gass codsag Seb0 tos 50d COOO BRU COO BE SEE nn pee coeur sco oa se aarg 497 modd Ds bancrentisolarecclipsesiisesjs-<1-2=12, 55 96) sa =\ sees oeice =a = 17 Toellner, Adolph, on mounds of Rock Island County, Illinois.............---363 moheadel sland sulin oiss mounds ONeesereos. cles sialcise nsesciose ees seeaae 363 sRomahawktromimoundun Wouislam ae sam cei) sion siea ae oe leleeeal= ae seal 388 shonerlectures, ACCOUMbOf em = sels soe sacle enise) = sininy sis oie wateiseeseweelonsciselacce 28 “STMT, VE Noo Gan rR) C0) yea fe Seo pee non peda uece cece Secsmec coos) 445 MOrvuc as. tishes Meal. see < 226-5555 555. ca aaine eee cise soa siateuuresreeee assests 33 Mownsend, Generalih., D>; letter trom)... s.)e2e otic /eecreectee<. secita neces 41 Townshend, R. W., dthnopoloe FY cece eesti eee ces Siedede este cod she abieie 437 araim, Charles’ J.,, lieutenant-commander, U.S. N2224-52225 ccs sccm oe ce tle 457 TMETVSRTRONNS) Noose so Shor nO COS RD Dee ee EE cer tes in tye ares 485, 519, 577 ra Wwellamounds Lowe seecsecpesee cease ses ittinwclercnc scent cielo see Le clone 345, 346 Mrochilide; monograph of theyby: Ds Gay Hlliot=. 3-5... -Saciseaceoesesiccssceee 26 PREOUSLOU Wee. . anbALONO) Of vere =s ae aaae seine © fas ache anicssleneleele se eeea 437 Troy, N. Y. pp Valliam Spero udtih ODseRvabOLYs aea)oceia/ocin1> an) = silos aa are 489 srw). El. examineds HahelsuwOrkss2s 0. seeclace acdc ccciese et iataces C 16 Tryon, G. W., monograph of the Strepomatida@ .--....---.------.-----+ ----e6 26 sommulusmeanr Quincy. Mle ese seem ae oie on a ets State Neeeeciewiee sieenieheeer 343 “Wt mETere, digyi\hy 2 Gd gee hte sods COoA eee OSes a COE CMO ORAS erica 5 Marmersli.M,. exploratlonsssssesiacacn cas see see ee Baca ese eslsedals So <ssseteioe 44 COME I) ccocioede os bObe DOS aeCEe Ob DB OO DSDOFERenacco se 42, 44, 67
Turtle-shaped mound on Long Key, Florida---. ---..-.--.-2-:s-s0--sccceee 402, 403 EyNCalletrush, ACCOUNT OL ccesss te sa-sivccee scent phases sisGeiee sessis oseeee 28 PyrAnnNs; NOES ON. sc .sse se eee sees eeee cosa Seas «ceeisceeiee Seats caalecle 34, 37 Wilke wre portralt)/ Of EnOtessOmleninysee = pyaar = ac -aa9/aaiseas oi Sisal sae ieeie 12 Underground piping for heating apparatus in Museum building ..----.-.----136 Wiliam ep he. Clore cersem ays serejeccieio cis sats: sco si ca cnlcn wmiace evattese tees Gober tals 5 Wp FON HWANG LO Wr.’ 4 a eee ne ee sion ciaciny asc is sais Sb SESS a sa slaw ae chee scenes 462 Winnsan mounds in Tlinoisee-s-s-eaeesecasces 2225). Sesse-e clos ieee ceeetee 342 United States Naval Academy Observatory, Annapolis, Md....-....----.-.-.. 457 United States Naval Observatory, Washington, D. C-....-..-.....----.----489 itchy anthropolopygerserernias sacs sees oa) o aac acSale,osi< Aste aGe eRe esa e ances 429 Wacancies’ im Board of Regents... 5 << cases. occtsn seats eseuisomeeesniaseseee 116, 141 NED TINT DEW Wiaeecete soe Sa os ace 5 «area(s nuepae aie ena emia aa ee tees ae 503
Valley City, Ill., mounds at.......... Pap OCP E AI cas cseeesens eWeeteeocces 363

<<<Page: 631>>>

Page.
Vassar College Observatory, Poughkeepsie, N. Y..-.-----..---.esses aoe 438 Ventilation of the House of Representatives ...< .20ccc0 coc conn ccc cce concce 19 Verrill, Prof.vA. dh. Amwvesti gations x~cck neue cen tecemcenleeee see ee ee eee 70 Wery, Ee Wecieacccicc rc Skee boeeoisek ceule noc simeante sae ste een aoe eee ae 455 Vienna dmperiall Observatory. ~-crccskmecnniee cue eee eee ee eae eee : 508 Wallagei@reelk:monnds, lowarece pace eceece ecco eeeee bee teens ee ee atest 346 Wineinpislantie Hora, Of Coc cecceeemieceei sees tue e eee Ceeieb ee See eee eee 31 Warainiacanthropology,. << cocuceclecee wchsuseu sc ae etlee sens Goes Teme eee 446 DOndS 2ebee ew ene coe eorsaneeceereree te teeeeee ae eeeee 15, 117, 118, 120
Vodser’s mound at Tampa, Blac cctecnclencemas cote see oete ooeeee teen tec eeaee 411 Wade; J... anthropology, -sccesweter eee Sere oe een eee eee eee eee eeeeieee 444 Wahpeton Reservation, Dakota, earthwork near.....----.---.--------ese 426 Waite, M.UK.; Chancellor. ..2-.c deere sspe wep eece saee cates eeseeees eee 4 president Board of -repents.. 26. s ieee eeepc ame ape se eae ee 4 MEMDEL.LOPiCO Me ahewwnce cnc oles uigrceasreeearnesniees eee eee 4
Wialdo;: Brank 222 Se Soh eee sick chewte nc te a ee aE tee eee ae 462 Waldo sLeon arden cc cmemeccicccetemcemee ec cketiretie cee s ce mee aimee ee eee 462, 484 Wallace, iS. .Ji., anbhropolo pyii ax seheto potty rey monste rte rater reecieine Meee eee 437 Walker S32. collections Dyicooeetac 1s rete torso tee see era eee eters 968 explorations) scccccscosel Se. cone Hep oe ene cee ae ene eee ee aes 46
explorations among the Indian mounds in Southern Florida.. 392
on shell-heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida..-.-.-.----.-----...----412, 413 Wampumiybelts/of the Six NatlonsSoceijes werewrewmele ie eae ae selec see ee eee 389 Ware Department, (CO-OperatlOM cc cmicte nea) cotton etek terete lose iste eee 39 Warner Observatory, dkochester Ne Niccocc seco eee on ese e = heen eee ee see 485 Warnick. J-plv., can bhTopolopiyeseseris eee ere eee clenloseintaeioenioee Sees 433 Washington County. sMississippl; mounds ins. -o-ee-. seer cee ee eer 383 Washington, D. C., United States Naval Observatory........--..----.-----489 Washington University Observatory, Saint Louis, Mo.......-.-.---.---.---486 Wiatlains vex erimenits lyase anes oie ieee cine temic erene ayer noe eriaeere eats 19 Wiatkins, GL, anthropology scccecenn otecectostarch cioos Sewers pate aeree eee 445 Wiatkins;.Ji, Co .anthropplogysec ncctec tee cesesSete eee eee eee eee ee eaee 433 Weapons, savage, at the Centennial Exhibition, a study of...--....-...---.. 213 \W/GiGEp ID yl ie ee a ee aielwisketeterninterasloahatatsee ole oa bite clcee selec sineeeee Saale aia 508 Wendell; Olivier Cs5c,.nwsxcincasorsooereaeweeec es aces yen Seater gievseeess 462 West, E., B.; moundsienumerated byentce sorte celdeeeeeleoces vee eeeere eters 352 Wiest india islands exploratlongny-reacree tec peo etre aera ee oe eee ee ene 47 Wrest Varginia panthro polo gyi sect aee mete tar<in foninioe = Fale iotataietoaiol aeesiae ee oat see 441 Wheeler, Hon Wi. A., .membemer Officio .soccaeaeeissdosnstee sane os een eeeee 4 Reentersaccsectio ce cniseis oslo voce Seeeiee cece eee eee | eal
Wheeler, Lieut. George M., contributions by -.-.--..----.-----------------67 Whetstonesdram: near Schoharie, Ny -Yu.5.2ds1d sstratoeerciwe Sees chee cree eens 391 White Cross Line of Antwerp, acknowledgment due .......-..-4---.-.-..--50 White, CharleswA. assistant,/. ct. Arcos atodelss cee s nate ree see eeeeee 5 Wihite, \Draicontribmtions Dyes lotce ces cle ecto ce ane meets Poe eee aeeeeeeoee es 69 SxploraiMmonicigssnsadeou siaraimletas dict oriateralorees See Soe eeine be oe eee ane 45
White River, CahonwAni zona, LUINS IM: .oo. eccser sete oto oelel ile Sotieceee ae eee 333 Whitestone, N. Y.,. Willets Point Field Observatory ......-.......---------494 Wihitney, a, anthropplary. yo oe Ao ete TER a ee eee 437 Wihitney,, Prot. Weds examined Habel/sinworkee 222 sahs cee se cee ee eeee eee 16 Walcox; PecW..;<amthnon plo Pera snhenctaser soa torres atone rdlse eee eee 437 Widemire,, S:, anthran ology injoenmemrtracertonron a) stator eicce aoe alee eee 446 Wilhelmshaven, Astréphysical Observatory .. ..-....s0--s26205+ eons see nee 508 Wilkinson, 2h, jr.; ante polo gy cpcisesticce «sie eninicuetaawanweweiee eee sk evicmaaee 440

<<<Page: 632>>>

Page.
Willets Point Field Observatory, Whitestone, N. Y..----. ...0 ---.-22 eee 494 Vall bem, Woe os thai obey (oa AS Goaniese6 5605 665 coho GS na6 Seoc SESR BEE EERoE he 430 Walliams. Richard examination, of mound)o--\--<<s-sessecesieoee 6 <22s5coc 346 Williams, Mr., lands of, in Florida, shell-heap on-.-.-............-.---.-----419 Williams eroudtit Observatory, CrOy. ON Mo) e/encereeea taser ae coer cccies esis ces 489 Wilmot, Samuel, notes on Western gizzard shad ......-.---. .---..+6 ---oo 34 AWillsOmsmAts: Cx. come to aeiee cleicieisinccisicidelccl<cisiaiajescine me acajcems coe nece eee cesoee 479 Walthers) Cals ramtnropOlogyjes oon <| oscil acon) seo siieicineis\scieinemoeteeinaaieecees 440 Ayvsunmeckiesphoro tee Ales aris ncleicsiosiisiclciaiorcis wie Salanw ceete aeeiomieacs aaunaiseie sees 506 With COR LeE Me Amu DTODOLOM Ye =. syeiciteaeljoicie alae see ec coe ree en ete cesee idsisce 432, 438 WISCONSIN anthro POLO Myee= ~eisicci oma Salvo eels cis saieivisinine cise clseerece tele emee 433 AMO UNUS PUM wee ees ae sieteete ese Roles Sele a Aa ee eee near 335, 341, 343 WiinherssHon whup bet RteOC en bans on nesaslasaneolsse se eraacieclateaceseeiccmccemeeeee 141 BAATOSS | Dyroteiseroe cs stereo wo see eictow se secre aateeniceatene aes 11
WiOle Drm dolphicencrsssiees sce avslenise tices saisoeces aS oac eee exon tercces 509 Woltz, T. N., appropriation for funeral expenses of ...... ......-wees cose 142 Meaithy ofirs s\Iaecc areas eisisiae ales Sicitia/ciniafeisiai=sic (ers ateeers aoe eer oe 64
RV Catt ENC tOViCl waco e ce cmoaias \alealaee aoe) clita acia elas cance Sees are oG WoodeneHoors| Of Museum) DUMGING: so2)o.\ss.cecn oca alee sasieces each ce eee 135 Wiorsaaetd 1d eA, memberoh Danish) Commissione aes sees soe oee soceee 300, 304 report on the preservation of antiquities in Denmark. --.. 299
WIHT GOs pant hTOpOlO Sy = cx .< es ose ocr stiasl cone coe tecnicos soeees 445 Walenock Company, contribution by 22-4. ss 22) ce Seas ce soees hee cece 63 Narrower rH C..-curator of herpetology... ---cscces -csee co essacieae sese 69 YEG} Ws roy Crane) Colon GBS AR e Be eeenadeooo becoSneeonee soobds daScedacsocs 429 Wouney@lanencors., Clerk smanictoa sale el asiesoeis wjoscimiesioieie aiseicasejessisenicacte 5 translagionmbyea cess ascent ece osese se aeces seecins case 519
Mucatane bird setrOmy ns cevec io setarn a eeiscielStrat cicl<is/sinicio oa, scisleeisinaesas Secals 36 Ypsilanti, Mich., Michigan State Normal School Observatory ....-----..---.. 495 Hoolocicalsrenera plist Ofsby; samuel EH. SCUdCED. soca smincwienecise ecco eeeese 29 Zoological Society of London, request made by......----.-----------------: 60 ParichiUiniversity; ODSOLVALOLy cs tana le uise aceon see eueanestescss seceee 509

<<<Page: 633>>>

re mre! : Wis. ; \ otis chdas Fe are Pe Ao
Oi’ my Sua Vea Vales Anse seeded hee mane Bae
ate ity peadeaks Ths ws Ce oe ey CKeR eS ‘008 bi laid tes oth ship
MD =e ciPWhew ee #6 4 vy dpe hey ren Updo 7 lie f i yet Pe wry yt See rae TY : ke a ae vane als i eat AT r? sh eee chadsabven shell a Ave f vende vi " \csriwn (Pe Pr. ¥ f. aekcneny 4 @ is Zine id Ct Rakad) Aer a a ‘i hives tA i ¥ ion teeenlAhdad Ha ee rri ne Wwe) a publ
OS diy és svt eece de ree Se ee ee canwess@unee © AP eae | Wi.
es . « } éa@ +3 1 PO SL oP OLE VSAR A were e ree RN Te nh Rue eoett Hon pees #4 See. , 4 mbebeher eRe cece tec rts ee Ute evil ] . 7 Y <a Ores eee h eee kay Fad 4h feet rN ~~ mt he ft rv e
fan 0x Pepi 2a ee crc 4

<<<Page: 634>>>



<<<Page: 635>>>

Saruvygin
INSTITUTION Ss ev cea INSTITUTION
NVINOSHLIWS S3IY¥Vuags
SAIYvVYdIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILA
Saiuvyaly Saluvyg
INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31uvudIT SAAS SJ!1YVYA!IT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILN
NVINOSHLIWS SMITHSONIAN NVINOSHLIWS aS SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION INSTITUTION S3a1Y¥vuaiT
NVINOSHLINS S31YVYUaIT
AIC TMTIerTrOat ArToAT?}rmptte mate RIWIBRISNOCLILTIMUAIS erari)\~_wwwewanest 11OO0

<<<Page: 636>>>

Saiuvugin
INSTITUTION Saltuvudi
NVINOSHLIWS ty Y, NVINOSHLIWS S31YVUdIT SMITHSONIAN NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN 4, EP LES Sp
NVINOSHLINS S3IYvVYdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILF ns
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31uvuaIT_LIBR
INSTITUTION S3tuvuds) INSTITUTION
29) = = Zp) HI ri Zz a | f& =| ied a } << aa | < | > a = = oc | : = on = is | SS — fe) re) aes | 5 Zz =z zt SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYUEIT LIBR is z z ‘a he S) S) o > = 5 A | = 2 B | o z z 3
NVINOSHLIWS SAI1uYvVYa!IT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOIL
Cee ae Sy SS,
NVINOSHLIWS Ye 4 NVINOSHLINS Sa1yuVvuyalt ee NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN Wh VY
SMITHSONIAN Ls
Mwtvesr es F
PR eiTTh Ee CRRA TRIO rrrTrirTIicfN A RBirrntre mr] tet mkt RILJEBRECARCL Et ttainm wm ™ bp anrrise,ercemm.eins

<<<Page: 637>>>

i hens as ‘ 170, taf acy ce
WUE Bh Noten artiydg hive . Lis Peete JGrb weve F ear at hy a she th é ‘NUnit COR rere TE Ae ‘
Patel de Sade eee btn neu ot Wa rer hs w sek azhe 5
me Feneeh yen hehe Ny fi
oY gcatittcs hits Bigeyeh weal are SAW ne oa eed
fr i Tas Test i
eet padre
aj BVA ‘es eae é 4 vf he ‘neye
ME RCD REE nab ite ade hs ape i x Gehcate ay 4 4
aA Ta yah Ain > ater boas Emi aT. E SNe E MM ibaa WAUCP CRA tse me CAO hh ae
icReb he i Se ateen bent ' REREAD ue NESS be tee Puy esheands
Mb aMatius ia geedsasa ab atin White reeeeset My
eras hehak ? Pi Pines eres 4 ESA ne Shap Red hi stnek Meuron a vay
Pale fuk eae) aye fie raat ae! <
Se Siiae Paes
ohatmin POW TE)
Mail ad
pi wb eas:
Biupey > Eh ai baht ea ett i Re aes. Byers
Pek eysyh Ws DY Sa ley
PY es
Tgrere inte lesabey TeV of sere osereny ven Ere aie ey, Ha O Fe ern te
Nha Se Pat Perera pire: ayberyy maareye eG bth d
Sebre fer ehh
WetewD od eri te
PO ATVTR HE Fame, Papseater Uy ed vy
pa tat Tey tw
rity ue ssa eeroe aye recuse Ww atores
Sto i aD PN bleh & Nusa
UU elke tnit
pArebiter pike € bisiy mest vont ool We yeoha ae en US : ile wok bee PPV bey Wael eseintireee ree Prey ety a ASLO UE YEA F ee Say ir v WOE ePnes dak are pre Pash Way heed WvAtW Vio" PEW We Win mye etry Fee are eo eare b. wt Wea Nesea es OR oe bb tal? a bsp ar Ferme wig WU eee) Wry oye LAAN th dontaak 28 aus WU BM wee VTE Tele ene Nees chiro ery ace) eat bay
‘ eeu { Caw TSM U ry op by Keble fee
Mate tO Loreen h Ma aay
PAU we its
Pe Sicey Pet Oar int
ONIAN Ip sini an | AWK MN WI |
00944 3109.

<<<Page: 638>>>



<<<Page: 639>>>

ar, = ays = 2 aes a. oat ‘ Te. ~ . e
™~ : $ ‘i i S . ~ . . . ‘ , “ . S , ~ . a ry : a . “ é . n _ Y . . r . $ Sie e . a _ r 5 oi ' a, ; > “ s ve " ‘ te A 4 .: ~ = . * ' ~ ~ ; + » ‘ = 4 Lath, ‘ ¢ , + ‘ q : ¢ *. rs *. = *y : . . » z @, a. “4 ‘ yy 2 fy . S sy . : © r — en e A :
. oe 7 . 2 2 “. . _ . " ‘ a . 2 —., s o% ” % 7 . a .. .

<<<Page: 640>>>



<<<Page: 641>>>



<<<Page: 642>>>

