<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>



<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>

The United States
National Museum
Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1953

<<<Page: 5>>>

Unirep Statzs Natronat Museum, Unpir DireEcTIoN OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C., October 15, 1958. Srr: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1953. Very respectfully, ReminetTon KELLoGG, Director, U. S. National Museum. Dr. LEonarp CARMICHAEL, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. Ir

<<<Page: 6>>>

Annual Report of
the Director
United States National Museum

<<<Page: 7>>>

June 30, 1953
Scientific staff Director: Remington Kellogg
Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator A. J. Andrews, J. E. Anglim, exhibits preparators
ARrcHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, cu-|PHystcan ANTHROPOLOGY: T. Dale rator
Stewart, curator M. T. Newman, associate curator Ersanotoecy: H. W. Krieger, curator
J. C. Ewers, associate curator
C. M. Watkins, associate curator
R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator
Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator
Department of Zoology: Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator
W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator; C. R. Aschemeier, W. M. Perrygo, E. G.
Laybourne, C. 8. East, J. D. Biggs, exhibits preparators; Mrs. Aime M. Awl, scientific illustrator
MAMMALS: Insects: Edward A. Chapin, curator D. H. Johnson, associate curator R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator H. W. Setzer, associate curator W. D. Field, associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., assistant} O. L. Cartwright, associate curator
curator Grace E. Glance, associate curator
Birps: Herbert Friedmann, curator Sophy Parfin, assistant curator H. G. Deignan, associate curator MARINE INVERTEBRATES: F. A. Chace, Samuel A. Arny, museum aide
Jr., curator Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS:
. rs Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum aide Doris M. Cochran, associate curator Mouuusxks: Harald A. Rehder, curator FisHes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate cuE. A. Lachner, associate curator rator W. T. Leapley, museum aide R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide| W. J. Byas, museum aide
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator
PHanerRocams: A. C. Smith, curator] GRasszs: E. C. Leonard, associate curator Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator E. H. Walker, associate curator Cryptoaams: C. V. Morton, acting cuLyman B. Smith, associate curator rator Velva E. Rudd, assistant curator Paul S. Conger, associate curator
Frrns: C. V. Morton, curator

<<<Page: 8>>>

Department of Geology: W. F. Foshag, head curator
J. H. Benn, Jessie G. Beach, museum aides
Foshag, acting curator E. P. Henderson, associate curator G. 8. Switzer, associate curator F. E. Holden, museum technician
Cy i: Gazin, curator
D. H. Dunkle, associate curator
F. L. Pearce, exhibits preparator
A. C. Murray, exhibits preparator
PaLEOBOTANY: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator
A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator David Nicol, associate curator W. T. Allen,“museum aide
Department of Engineering and Industries: Frank A. Taylor, head curator
ENGINEERING: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator; in charge of Sections of Civil and Mechanical Engineering, Marine Transportation, and Physical Sciences and Measurements
K. M. Perry, associate curator, Section of Electricity
S. H. Oliver, associate curator, Section of Land Transportation
MEDICINE AND Pusiic HEALTH:
George B. Griffenhagen, associate curator Alvin E. Goins, museum aide
CraFrts anD Inpustrins: W. N. Watkins, curator; in charge of Sections of Wood Technology, Manufactures, and Agricultural Industries
Edward C. Kendall, associate curator
Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator; Section of Textiles
E. A. Avery, museum aide
William E. Bridges, museum aide
Walter T. Marinetti, museum aide
Grapuic Arts: J. Kainen, curator
A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator; Section of Photography
J. Harry Phillips, Jr., museum aide
Department of History: Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator
Mizirary AND Navau History: Mendel L. Peterson, associate curator J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., assistant curator.
Civit History: Margaret W. Brown, associate curator Robert Leroy Morris, museum aide PHILATELY: Franklin R. Bruns, curator
Jr., associate
S. M. Mosuer, associate curator

<<<Page: 9>>>

Hla yah PY OPER fast we yee) er | a 2 |
: ¢ % Saf f é
. 3 y |
Smithsonian collaborators, associates, custodians of collections,
and honorary curators
Anthropology Neil M. Judd, Anthropology W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology Zoology Paul Bartsch, Mollusks _ W. L. Jellison, Insects Arthur C. Bent, Birds W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera A. G. Béving, Zoology W. B. Marshall, Zoology L. L. Buchanan, Coleoptera Gerrit S. Miller, Jr.. Mammals M. A. Carriker, Insects J. Perey Moore, Marine Invertebrates Austin H. Clark, Zoology Theodore S. Palmer, Zoology R. 8. Clark, Zoology Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology Robert A. Cushman, Hymenoptera Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Marine Max M. Ellis, Marine Invertebrates Invertebrates W. K. Fisher, Zoology C. R. Shoemaker, Zoology D. C. Graham, Biology Alexander Wetmore, Birds Charles T. Greene, Diptera Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod A. Brazier Howell, Mammals Crustacea Botany Agnes Chase, Grasses F. A. McClure, Grasses David G. Fairchild, Lower Fungi John A. Stevenson, Fungi E. P. Killip, Phanerogams Geology R. S. Bassler, Paleontology J. P. Marble, Mineralogy Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany S. H. Perry, Mineralogy Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon-| J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Paletology ontology Frank L. Hess, Mineralogy and Pe-| W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy trology T. W. Stanton, Invertebrate PaleonJ. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Paletology
ontology
Engineering and Industries
F. L. Lewton, Crafts and Industries vI

<<<Page: 10>>>

Contents
Page iN TROD U CLI ON aint doch esate Atco ent ae aye Mee ae sl in, hs 1
EXCEPTS eek oe Me! ce TPR MN” wee Paha be ae ee MIR rs RAE PA db 8 AIC CHSSIONSEMANC Ura ilcetar ace ohne hipay oul su MMS cone De ees ychee tc tcl ts 12 CARE oF COLLECTIONS ........... SEIS SL vated hari: He ie 20
INVESTIGATION AND? RESMARCH |. Shis SRS Tae ee Tee een 25 ATUL MEO OLO LYM pre nett er cect ace aR ae Ar We Peis eee Sanat Gi Lnaleny) oe nei 25 LOO OLY MERE heuer en nea for ca ne ADA Gem ILMaY fae tg igen aly eels 29 IB OUAN VAN eatery eae Mm Mg AG, ft, Me lal a eR ae eo 35 Ceolosyarden St yten ck tor ans Tess eoieds We Remap chun) sala Glee 37 Hngineerinecand) Industries... Gea, ale thee 2 eee oe a 44 ERISGOT Ys ee) 9" SP ant ee ae ee ecm ACS Ab A hs Aah 46
UO BRICATIONS Ham eiciie: cileUpoiiaicoenrs Dbireeppe: Bees Tel vit Pt dis aie, apeiron 2a 48
Donors To THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS ..... +. «6 © « o « «© « 56

<<<Page: 11>>>

ye ® oe Rie Ge re eee he og er dae
ero miu
ajaut
vsithea-m
nek epee
x the lb ARSE, Ay So

<<<Page: 12>>>

Introduction
Our National Museum serves many purposes. In it, objects of natural science and treasures of history and technology are preserved for posterity. Through critical study of its collections and the data relevant to them the scope of human knowledge is enlarged. From the exhibition of its collections the visiting public receives information and intellectual stimulation. All these activities—the amassing, the preserving, the documenting, the study, and the exhibiting of its collections—require not only constant work and attention but also financial support.
Lack of adequate funds for exhibits over a period of many years has forced the United States National Museum to leave many of its public halls long unchanged, despite the awareness of its staff that newer and better methods of exhibition would greatly improve them.
The Congress has now made appropriations permitting us to start some modernization of these exhibition halls. To this improvement in our service to the public the Museum staff is turning a very considerable part of its thinking and effort. As we commence this long-range undertaking it seems worthwhile to discuss its goals in terms of the mission of the Smithsonian Institution to increase and diffuse knowledge among men.
National repository
In planning exhibits for the National Museum, a number of factors must be considered in addition to the obvious ones of cost and availability of space and personnel. Several in particular are significant.
First, the Museum is the national repository for materials in national history, technology and engineering, and the natural sciences. It is charged with the duty of holding for public use this material, much of which is turned over to it by other departments of the Government. In more than a century of service to science and the public it has been given the responsibility for preserving and exhibiting immense collections of scientific and cultural objects, many of them unique, valued at many hundreds of millions of dollars. No museum in this country and few, if any, throughout the world have this function and this opportunity to gather and exhibit so much that is of permanent significance.

<<<Page: 13>>>

Public interest
Second, the interest of the public in these collections is attested by a recent national poll showing that the National Museum is a tourist attraction in Washington second only to the Capitol and the White House. Because of its location on the Mall, the Museum is frequently the first point of interest for visitors to the Nation’s Capital. Citizens from every section of the United States are to be found at almost any time in its halls, which are open to the public every day in the year but Christmas. Many of its visitors return again and again, often from considerable distances. Others, some of them foreign, are able to make no more than one trip to Washington in a lifetime.
To all these people, most of whom have a limited budget of time but a vast interest in seeing as much of as many different things as possible, the Museum has a very great responsibility for making their visit both significant and satisfying.
The presence in the Museum of so many authentic relics of our social and technological background provides a rich opportunity to set before the world this material evidence of the factors contributing to our national growth.
Also, as the only large museum of its kind in the Washington metropolitan area, its exhibits are studied each year by hundreds of thousands of young people in organized groups from the schools and colleges of the District of Columbia and nearby States. The presence of the Museum in the Washington area makes establishing a local museum for such purposes unnecessary and a practical impossibility, in the unlikely event one should be desired.
The repeated use of its exhibits as an educational facility by these schools is another evidence of public interest that cannot and should not be ignored. The needs of this group can be satisfied in ways that will contribute to the larger function of the Museum as a national institution.
Changing cultural tastes
Third, a marked change has taken place in the cultural needs and tastes of the public since the period before the first World War, when many of the present Museum exhibits were created. ‘That was some 40 years ago, toward the end of an era of great expositions in which periodically were assembled novelties and oddities and interesting devices from all over the world. Then, as now, people were eager for knowledge. Great areas of the visible world of nature were still being explored, mass production was just beginning to bring the world of science into the home, and there were wonders on every hand for the edification of the public, which delighted in being astounded.

<<<Page: 14>>>

Today world travel is commonplace. Numbers of our citizens have visited distant countries or they know intimately someone who has. The motion pictures, radio, and television teach those who stay home more of the world and its natural history than any but the most favored few could learn in the still-recent past. Study of man’s physical and cultural environment has become an important part of the curricula of our schools. In some subjects children today are often better informed than their parents. As people have become better informed generally, their increased knowledge has given them both the desire for more information and the capacity to comprehend it. As a result, they flock to museums in greater numbers than ever before to examine the actual objects at first hand.
The average museum visitor today is likely to be far more discriminating and much less naive than his parents were. His attitude toward what he sees, moreover, is conditioned by his contact with modern techniques of presenting information and with educational methods that have radically improved through the influence of applied psychology and modern advertising. He is accustomed to these techniques and methods, approves of them, and expects them to be used wherever they contribute to the quick comprehension of an idea or situation.
His intellectual curiosity can no longer be completely satisfied with rows of stuffed mammals or birds, with cases of rocks that all look very much alike and have little to identify them but hard-to-pronounce scientific names, with displays of arrowheads or shells in geometric patterns, with garments and personal effects of famous people laid out in rows, or with shelves of primitive artifacts and implements whose appearance gives few hints of their use or effectiveness or significance.
The Museum not only has to show its collections in a different and better way, it must also show a greater variety of topics in order to satisfy and give intellectual pleasure to people with a wider range of interests. Merely to show more objects is not the answer. It is rather to show fewer, but with greater attention to their selection and arrangement.
Today’s visitor may come to the Museum with a passively receptive mind and not in search of a particular object or fact, but he nevertheless expects to find in the exhibits a higher level of idea content than can be presented by a series of objects with accurate but unimaginative labels. He is better able to absorb the story behind the objects, and it is the function of the Museum to give him that story as lucidly and attractively as possible,

<<<Page: 15>>>

Scope of collections
The fourth factor affecting the program of modernizing our exhibits is the vast scope of the collections. The Museum is in effect three museums in one—a natural-history museum dealing with plants, animals, and minerals—a museum of anthropology dealing with ancient and modern man and his works—a museum of national history and technology dealing with the development of this country and its culture. These three fields overlap somewhat (the phase of anthropology that deals with man as a physical being, for instance, is covered in part by the field of mammalogy, in natural history, dealing with man as an animal), but basically they are different aspects of the whole subject of man and his physical environment. And while the exhibits of each require different treatment, the over-all presentation of them can be coordinated so that taken together they clarify the relationship of man to his environment and emphasize the special contributions of the United States to the improvement of man’s physical and social well being.
Panorama of life
National interest as well as the opportunity to increase knowledge among men make it highly desirable to present this impressive and engrossing subject to the millions of visitors coming to the Nation’s Capital, and to present it as a broad, integrated panorama of life, the essentials of which can be grasped in a limited time but which nevertheless provide ample material for detailed study.
The first steps toward achieving such a presentation are already under way in the rehabilitation of our specialized divisional exhibits. Completion of this work will increase measurably the usefulness of our museum materials in the traditional groupings—birds, insects, archeology, botany, engineering, paleontology, graphic arts, stamps and coins, ethnology, textiles, military history, to name a few.
Subsequent steps can be taken as other programs of the Smithsonian Institution now in progress come to fruition and other halls become available. Construction of the proposed National Air Museum and the museum proposed for the National Collection of Fine Arts, for example, will release for other uses the halls now occupied by these collections. Likewise, other construction proposed for the Natural History building will provide space for exhibition material now held in storage. And replacement of the worn-out Arts and Industries building, an exhibition shed both costly to maintain and basically unsuitable for use as a modern museum, will allow the exhibits in national history and technology to be displayed in a manner appropriate to their true significance in the story of man’s development in the particular environment of the United States.

<<<Page: 16>>>

Thematic exhibits
As these halls become available, the broader outlines of the program will unfold. For each major aspect of the story of man in relation to his environment—natural history, anthropology, national history and technology—a basic series of exhibits is being considered that will develop a sustained theme illustrating the essential facts of that aspect.
Each series will be laid out so that the visitor can tour the halls in an hour or two and not miss any major exhibit. Supporting the basic series, in adjoining halls and alcoves, will be supplementary exhibits supplying details that amplify the main theme. These are intended to satisfy those who are making a closer study of the Museum, or whose interest has been aroused by a particular facet of the main series.
Elsewhere in the Museum, for the many scientists, collectors, hobbyists, and others who come with specific interests in mind, will be found the specialized collections, strengthened by the addition of explanatory displays and timely, topical exhibits. In the laboratories, storage areas, and work rooms the scientist and historian will find as usual the reference collections—the incomparable research tools that comprise the bulk of the materials in the Museum.
Ecological associations
The theme chosen for each of the main series will provide a broad, comprehensive view of the subject, and at the same time will help the visitor integrate what he sees with what he knows.
In natural history, for example, environmental association is of primary importance, and appreciation of the environment as a whole is essential to a full understanding of any of its parts.
The average person has learned to know his own particular world of nature as such an association, whether city park, suburban community, or rural countryside. He customarily thinks of the rest of the world of nature in terms of large-scale associations—the seashore, the mountains, the desert, the tropics. In these, also, he naturally expects to find characteristic varieties of life existing and interacting, transmuting the minerals of soil and sea into fiber and flesh, and adapting themselves to ceaselessly changing conditions of geology and climate. So, in the Museum, he should find and study together in their proper association the various forms of life from those parts of the world to which he is a stranger.
For this reason the basic series in natural history will present representative ecological associations and will contain materials from all pertinent divisions of the Museum. These associations will be selected on the basis of educational value and public interest from a

<<<Page: 17>>>

wide range of possible subjects covering the entire globe. Typical of those under consideration are such subjects as “Beneath the Sea,” “Tropical Rain Forest,” ‘‘Arctic Tundra,” “At the Water Hole,’ “Rocky Mountain Upland,” ‘The Desert,” ‘Virgin Hardwood Forest,” “Pacific Atoll.”
Adjacent halls will illustrate the geologic processes that have created the world as we know it and will trace through fossils and reconstructions the evolution of modern life from its ancestral forms living in past geologic ages.
In anthropology the basic series will comprise an introduction to the development of man and his cultures. The supporting exhibits will present civilizations of the world, with emphasis on the Americas and in particular on the North American Indian, and will carry back into the prehistoric past the story of man’s development as a living organism, and his conquest of his environment, as illustrated by civilizations of the past.
Pivotal periods of history
In national history and technology, dealing primarily with man in the United States, the basic series will be focused on pivotal periods of our history. The halls will coordinate the technological, social, and political phases of our growth and will dramatize the interplay of the physical resources of our land, the technical genius of our people, and the stimulus our builders and statesmen have derived from our traditional freedoms.
Supporting halls will illustrate and amplify this story by tracing the development of techniques and tools, the evolution of the products of science and industry, and the growth of customs and institutions typical of our country.
The aspects of the story of man and his environment thus far discussed comprise the immediate tangible surroundings of man—the earth and its inhabitants. The part of his environment comprising the atmosphere and the heavens is not at present treated in the exhibits of the National Museum. Ideally, this subject would be treated in a series of exhibits grouped about a planetarium. In them the phenomena of the weather, solar radiation, and the movements of the heavenly bodies would be explained. They would give opportunity to illustrate the applicable laws of mechanics and of electricity and magnetism, while exhibits of meteors, up to now man’s only contact with outer space, would remind the visitor that man’s environment reaches out to the infinite.

<<<Page: 18>>>

Lofty goals
The initial purpose of this undertaking, the goals of which have been outlined here, is to rehabilitate the present exhibits of the National Museum. In doing so, however, we would be remiss not to make the most effective use possible of the treasures in our custody. As scientists it is all too easy to let the factual minutiae of our daily work dull our imagination—a quality just as precious to science as to any of man’s other intellectual pursuits.
Hence, for this undertaking the staff has been inspired to set lofty goals, well aware of the challenge they pose. The staff is equally aware that we live in a time of many challenges. In overcoming these challenges we see great opportunity for service to the Nation. We also see in it many opportunities for individual citizens of every station to cooperate in this service. The good that can flow from the successful accomplishment of this program is, like the environment of man himself —boundless.
Funds Allotted
From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year 1952-53, the sum of $800,459 was allotted to the United States National Museum. Of this allotment $765,514 was used for salaries and expenses required for the preservation, increase, and study of the national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geological specimens, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, industry, graphic arts, and history. The remainder, $34,945, was used for printing and binding.

<<<Page: 19>>>

Exhibits
Anthropology
Two extensive programs of modernization of exhibits are in progress in the Department of Anthropology. One, involving two halls, will portray ‘“The Native Cultures of the Western Hemisphere”’ in a series of displays ranging geographically from Tierra del Fuego to northern Greenland. The other, described in last year’s report, involves a series of exhibits illustrating the cultures of the major archeological periods of Latin America. Under the direction of John C. Ewers, associate curator of ethnology, and Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator of archeology, assisted by Exhibits Preparator John EK. Anglim, ten new exhibits on the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico and Arizona were installed. Also completed were four new archeological exhibits: ‘Trade in Meso-America,” “Aztec Artistry.in Stone,” “Arts and Crafts of the Mayas,” and “‘Toltec and Maya Architecture.”
A special exhibition, “Johann Friedrich Amelung and his Tradition,” was built around the display of the only known pair of engraved glass “pokals,’’ or ceremonial goblets, made by Amelung in his pioneer ““New Bremen Glassmanufactory,’’ near Buckeystown, Frederick County, Md. They are handsomely engraved with the name of George,Trisler, a journalist and merchant of Frederick, Md., and the date, 1793. The pokals were lent to the Museum for this special exhibition by Mrs. Christian Thomas.
Several specialists and school groups were given instruction in the laboratory on various techniques for making molds and in display techniques.
Zoology
Plans are being drawn up for renovation and modernization of three halls—mammals, birds, and marine invertebrates.
In the North American mammal hall will be placed four groups now partially completed: the puma, the pronghorn antelope, the Virginia deer, and the red wolf. In the present puma group several improvements have been made by changing the illumination, by adding more balsam needles, and by painting clouds on the backdrop. Further progress was made with the sea otter, coyote, and bobcat habitat groups.

<<<Page: 20>>>

The cases containing the reproductions of fish were newly painted, and the models cleaned, touched up, and repaired. The case of deepsea fishes, in particular, was enhanced with 13 color sketches made by Elie Cheverlange while a member of the Johnson—Smithsonian Expedition of 1933 to the Puerto Rican deep. A large mounted sailfish donated by Edward G. Miller, Jr., of New York City, and a steelhead trout from Alaska, prepared by G. T. Sundstrom, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, were also placed on exhibition.
Geology
Laboratory preparation of the giant ground-sloth Megatheriwm from Panamé4 is now almost completed. The skeleton of this huge, uncouth creature promises to be a spectacular addition to the hall of vertebrate paleontology.
No important changes have been made in the exhibition series in geology. Much time, however, was given to planning new installations. Scale models were prepared for several proposed halls.
Engineering and Industries
Thomas Jefferson’s improvement in the shape of the wooden moldboard for plows and the method he described in 1798 for reproducing its shape with common farm tools are shown in an exhibit produced by the division of crafts and industries. Early corn planters and the methods of their use are exhibited in another. New exhibits on sewing machines and yarn winding and measuring implements brought to completion the renovation of the hall of early American textiles. The exhibit on papermaking was brought up to date.
Special crafts and industries exhibits included ‘The Toiles of Today and Yesterday” from the Scalamandre Museum of Textiles, midSeptember through October, and ‘‘Pictorial Techniques” from the Museum’s textile collections, begun in April and continuing.
Four steps in the series of exhibits on the history of photography were completed. ‘The first, an introductory exhibit, contrasts the earliest and latest models of photographic cameras; the second outlines the development of the camera from early times to 1839; the third provides a historical summary of the wet processes, including albumen, collodion and its derivatives, the ambrotype, the tintype, and the wet plate; and the fourth features the carte de visite and the photographic album. Two other recently installed exhibits are devoted to applications of photography in the sciences, with examples of its use in medical, biological, industrial, and military research. Other newly arranged cases display prints by renowned photographers, including prints from the Hickemeyer and Petrocelli collections.
272468—53——2

<<<Page: 21>>>

In graphic arts, a new exhibit of historical lithographs and the improvement of the display of color printing of wood cuts carried forward the renovation of the hall of hand-print processes. A colorful exhibit on the process of roll-leaf stamping shows how printing on a variety of materials such as wood, plastics, cloth, leather, and even paraffin, is done by stamping colored or metal leaf, which is carried on paper rolls, onto the material by means of heated dies.
Grapuic Arts
American Prints Various prints from the perJune 23-September 1 manent print collection
Dorr Bothwell 25 serigraphs September 2-September 28 Lynn Egbert 35 prints September 29—-November 2 Terry Haass 27 prints November 3—December 7 Jakob Steinhardt 27 woodcuts December 8-January 11
1958 Ramendranath 40 prints January 12—February 8
Chakravorty Grace Oehser 22 block prints February 9—March 15 Charles W. DahlMonotypesfrom permanent March 16—April 19 green print collection Ben-Zion 18 etchings from Biblical April 20-May 24 Themes Portfolio Antonio Frasconi 19 woodcuts May 25-June 29 PHOTOGRAPHY 1952
Paul Linwood Gittings 96 pictorial photographs July-August Maurice LaClaire 52 pictorial photographs September Ernest G. Rathenau 113 pictorial photographs October American Society of Photo75 pictorial photographs November
graphic Art National Photographic Society 106 pictorial photographs December and color slides
1953 Frank R. Fraprie 35 pictorial photographs January Carl Mansfield 55 pictorial photographs February Francis Wu 50 pictorial photographs March-April Sixth Annual Exhibition of Ma50 pictorial photographs May rine Photography Permanent Print Collection 50 pictorial photographs June
In the division of medicine and public health patent models of infant nursing bottles were incorporated in a nursery-equipment exhibit, which received wide public notice. Suppository molds and patent models were combined in a new exhibit depicting the history and evolution of this device. “A Pictorial History of Ancient Pharmacy” was produced with a number of significant pharmaceutical specimens

<<<Page: 22>>>

from the collection, supplemented with ten colored prints of old scenes of pharmacy from Parke, Davis and Company. Recently received historical specimens relating to various antibiotics have been installed in an “‘antibiotic” exhibit that depicts the history of their discovery, methods of isolation, manufacture, and testing, and gives a brief explanation of their current uses in medicine.
Several hundred new exhibition labels were installed and the appearance of several halls of engineering exhibits was improved by the removal of material to the new storage area. A special display of the original log of the SS Savannah and its model was made for the observance of National Maritime Day.
History
Renovation of the wall cases in the costumes hall was completed with the installation of lights in each individual case. The exhibit ‘Silhouettes of Fashion—Women’s Costume in America 1750-1950,”’ presents a chronological display of period costumes that shows the progression of fashion and changes of silhouette in dresses and costume accessories such as shoes, hats, fans, parasols, and similar objects.
The dress of Mrs. Harry S. Truman was added to the collection of dresses of the First Ladies of the White House. It was displayed on a figure made in the Museum’s anthropological laboratory by Chief Preparator A. J. Andrews. Planning the hall for the dresses of the First Ladies of the White House, approved as part of the current modernization program, moved rapidly forward. In addition to the floor plan and side elevations of the hall, scale models were made of some of therooms. The research involved in planning the interiors of the eight period rooms in which the dresses will be exhibited has occupied a major portion of the time of Associate Curator Margaret W. Brown.
The U. S. Marine Corps is forming an extensive collection of materials relating to its history to be placed in the hall of naval history.
The gold coins in the Paul A. Straub collection have been placed on display and the silver coins are being installed. The program of special exhibits recently undertaken by Curator of Philately Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., resulted in five special showings of Museum material in New York City and Washington, D. C.

<<<Page: 23>>>

Aeccessions
During the Fiscal Year 1952-53
Specimens incorporated into the national collections totaled 1,607,911 (more than twice the number received last year) and were distributed among the six departments as shown in the tabulation opposite. The increase in the number of specimens added to the Museum’s collections is attributable chiefly to the accessioning of a large number of small fossils, including 750,000 Permian invertebrates and 500,000 Arctic Foraminifera. Most of the other accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government departments and agencies. The more important of these are summarized below. A full list of the donors is to be found on page 56.
Anthropology
A collection of 315 chipped stone artifacts, including fluted projectile points and other man-made objects suggesting a Paleo-Indian culture, from the Shoop Site, Dauphin County, Pa., is considered to be of particular interest. The Carnegie Institution of Washington, in continuation of its generous cooperation, donated a collection of potsherds representing type objects from excavated sites in the Maya area.
Through an exchange with the Denver Art Museum, the division of ethnology acquired two ceremonial bundles formerly used by northern Blackfoot Indians in tobacco planting rites. A rare and valuable Chinese Lamaist robe, of dark-blue silk and embellished with over-all couching of braided silk and embroidery in metallic gilt, was presented by Maj. Lee Hagood, who had acquired it in Shanghai in 1918. Objects recovered from historical sites of villages, trading posts, and factories in Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, New York, and Massachusetts and other New England States were received from individual donors. Of outstanding interest and usefulness to the collector and student of early American ceramics are 189 pieces of redware, stoneware, and other types of New England folk pottery presented by Mrs. Lura Woodside Watkins. These pottery fragments, excavated from sites of New England potteries in existence between 1687 and 1880, were assembled by Mrs. Watkins as a study collection for use and illustration in her ‘‘New England Potters and their Wares.”

<<<Page: 24>>>

Department of Anthropology .......... 765, 200 Archeology! 6 2p Vs Jl tel fees An's 525, 623 Inponarlopay Vag wigs do 4 a) 6 187, 313 Cerannics ici tay ie reo) hoptan/ephowes 9, 776 Musical instruments ..... 2, 443 Period art and textiles . ... 2,919 Physical Anthropology ...... 37, 126 Departmentiof Botanya ciyad Ph. il feritaiici os 8 2, 559, 592 Phanerocamsic us slvayeey cieadyey nay « 1, 665, 445 © GRASSCS lime coe oe feb yet faricla ve) con ary ey 334, 571 IBGE NS you opiate rte hoes ove, at one Sn Gans 201, 089 Cryptogams.) SAI get eee. Fe 348, 487 Department of Engineering and Industries. .... 167, 620 Crafts and Industries ...... 61, 452 PUN PINCCTIN Cy op) wiicy (hoy eee tehsil s 33, 099 GraphicpATisn tye. i Jo gout io cones 50, 116 Medicine and Public Health ... 22, 953 Department of Geology . ....:....+2s 6. 5, 209, 733 Mineralogy and Petrology .... 263, 085 Invertebrate Paleontology and PaleObOtATI YA cure pe dtea eh eee s eats los 4, 908, 959 Vertebrate Paleontology ..... 37, 689 MenantmMent Oly MIStOLY elon tice us ice vmagnne | s/s 670, 799 CivalFEistoOny. ste ee es 37, 249 MalitanyAHiIstonyss luesecelia ere plete 29, 068 Naval History > oe cami S Westie 4,514 Numismatics} ssi Oa fiw Sup sate 62, 968 Philatel ype: a) Side) 2 on Hetecthecyee fue 537, 000 Weparbmentrol, LOGOS, 0 us Fie o sec tjei ets) heh os 25, 391, 306 VISITAS abe os See aN ees eee s 265, 803 Birdshy [0s thie tack. o 4 ROS EO, 471, 865 REptues yea ee Me LE ed ae", 140, 712 WISHES) sep lcm ecie Rh ope bacvie pienogeuts 1, 538, 102 SC CESirS. Syste ay fiir RS seer ans bat es 12, 038, 766 Marine Invertebrates ...... 1, 293, 005 IMGUUSKSWavc je tke ee ee 9, 412, 318 Helminths vx VO SOs 46, 204 Echinoderms) <n \Gtt: geniS. wae). 184, 531 Toran Museum CoLiEcTIONS..... 34, 764, 250
Another important addition, presented by Mrs. Florence Bushee of Newbury, comprises 320 fragments and whole specimens of glass and ceramics excavated by the late Charles H. Danforth at the site of the Boston and Sandwich Glass Company factory at Sandwich, Mass.
A cast of the Hotu II skull excavated in Iran was donated by the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research and the American Institute of Human Paleontology.

<<<Page: 25>>>

Zoology
More than 1,000 mammals, collected by Charles O. Handley, Jr., in the Kalahari Desert region of South-West Africa while serving as a member of the Peabody—Harvard expedition under the leadership of L. K. Marshall, were added to the collection. Nearly 500 small mammals were received from various units and members of the military services stationed in Korea and Japan. As transfers the Museum received 47 mammals of Madagascar from Lt. Vernon J. Tipton, U.S. Army Medical Service Graduate School; and a series of rodents from the Marshall, Gilbert, and Phoenix Islands, and Tahiti, from investigators working under the auspices of the U. S. Geological Survey and the Pacific Science Board of the National Research Council. Dr. Henry W. Setzer, while giving instruction on the preparation of specimens for purposes of documentation to members of a U.S. Army medical unit, obtained 156 mammals in Panama.
On the termination of fieldwork in Colombia by M. A. Carriker, Jr., financed for several years by the income from the W. L. Abbott bequest, 2,174 skins and 225 skeletons of birds were forwarded to the Museum. The W. L. Abbott bequest also provided funds for the purchase of 349 bird skins from northern Rhodesia. Dr. Harry M. Smith presented 386 skins of birds taken in northern Burma. As transfers the Museum received 58 Alaskan bird skins from the Public Health Service’s Arctic Health Research Center at Anchorage and 49 skins and 20 skeletons of birds taken in the vicinity of Point Barrow.
From various islands in the Pacific Ocean, chiefly in the Marshall and Gilbert groups and the Tuamotus, collecting under the auspices of the Pacific Science Board by Joe T. Marshall, Edwin T. Moul, and J. P. E. Morrison, and the U. 8S. Geological Survey by F. R. Fosberg, resulted in the transfer of 365 lizards to the Museum.
More than 14,000 specimens of fishes obtained by Dr. William Beebe in Bermuda and the Caribbean area were presented by the New York Zoological Society. Other important accessions recorded were some 1,500 fishes from the Blue Dolphin North Atlantic expeditions under the leadership of Commander David C. Nutt; 528 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico and the coast of Washington, transferred by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 67 paratypes of Mexican fishes from Dr. José Alvarez; and 582 fishes from the Red Sea, collected by Dr. Eugenie Clark. As exchanges there were received 144 fishes, including 32 holotypes and paratypes, from the University of Hawaii and 161 specimens, representing 100 species of Indian fishes, from the Zoological Survey of India.
The Korschefsky collection of ladybird, or coccinellid, beetles comprising over 14,000 specimens and containing 1,445 named species representing 206 genera was acquired by purchase by the Smithsonian

<<<Page: 26>>>

Institution, thus increasing the usefulness of the reference series for this family of beetles. Asa result of the gift by Dr. Alfred Emerson, University of Chicago, of 539 termites, comprising 96 species hitherto unrepresented in the collections, of which 65 were represented by type material, the national collections now contain more than 1,000 of the 1,800 known species.
Over 3,200 identified polychaete worms were presented by Dr. Marian H. Pettibone of the University of New Hampshire. As transfers from the Pacific Science Board, the division of marine invertebrates received 3,412 specimens of marine life found on Raroia Atoll in the Tuamotus: 3,980 invertebrates collected on the northern Marshall and Gilbert Islands from the U. S. Geological Survey; and more than 10,000 identified peneid shrimps and some 500 miscellaneous crustaceans and other marine invertebrates of the Gulf of Mexico from the Fish and Wildlife Service. Some 800 holotypes and paratypes were added to the marine invertebrate collections by the donors who described the new species.
Mollusks from atolls in the northern Marshall Islands, Onotoa Atoll in the Gilbert Islands, Raroia in the Tuamotus, and from localities in the Fiji, Cook, and Society Islands were transferred by the Pacific Science Board and the U.S. Geological Survey. Approximately 2,000 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from Stewart Island, New Zealand, were presented by Miss Olive Allan. A representation of almost all known races and colonies of the colorful tree snails (Ligwus) of Florida, totaling 1,680 specimens, was received from Ralph H. Humes. Dr. George R. LaRue, University of Michigan, one of the leading American parasitologists, presented 1,200 lots of tapeworms and digenetic trematodes. Nearly 100 echinoderms from Onotoa Atoll, collected by Dr. P. E. Cloud, Jr., and 707 from the Marshall Islands, collected by F. S. MacNeil were transferred by the U. 5S. Geological Survey.
Botany
An important addition to the South American collections resulted from the transfer to the National Herbarium from the herbarium of the National Arboretum, U.S. Department of Agriculture, of 45,000 botanical specimens collected in Ecuador and Colombia by the staffs of the Cinchona missions. The Division of Plant Introduction and Exploration, U. S. Department of Agriculture, transferred 704 specimens from Turkey and South Africa and 963 specimens from southern Brazil. Australian plants collected by L. R. Specht while participating in the National Geographic Society—Smithsonian Institution— Commonwealth of Australia expedition to Arnhem Land were presented by the Australian Government.

<<<Page: 27>>>

Gifts included 283 plants from the table mountains of Venezuela, from the New York Botanical Garden; 1,693 Virginia plants from H. A. Allard; 498 specimens, mostly from the Amazon region, from the Instituto Agronomico do Norte, Belém, Para, Brazil; and 446 Colombian plants from the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota.
As exchanges, several large collections were received, of which reference may be made to 2,070 specimens, mostly from Cuba, from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm; 1,312 specimens from the Komarov Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences U.S.S. R.; and 579 specimens from the Belgian Congo from the Jardin Botanique de Etat, Brussels.
K. P. Killip collected 2,281 plants for the Museum on Big Pine Key, Fla., and the Isle of Pines, Cuba. Field work by Dr. Ernest R. Sohns in Guanajuato, México, added 875 specimens to the herbarium.
Geology
Noteworthy gifts received include an exhibition group of datolite crystals from Joseph S. Rapalus; uranium minerals, from Utah, from George Dix; and a large polished slab of rhodocrosite, of rich rose color, obtained in Argentina, from Ellis Clarke Soper.
A fine crystal of gadolinite from Norway, an aquamarine (beryl) crystal from Russia, a large specimen of vanadinite from México, several groups of unusual crytolite crystals from Colorado, and a milarite crystal from Switzerland were added to the Roebling collection.
Included among the additions to the Canfield collection were a large and unusual cruciform twin crystal of quartz from México, a group of quartz crystals from Madagascar, an emerald crystal from Austria, an opal from Australia, and a large green tourmaline crystal from Brazil. The Chamberlain bequest provided funds for the purchase of a 28.8-carat green apatite from Burma and a 17.3-carat pink scapolite cat’s-eye from Ceylon. A very unusual golden beryl cat’seye from Madagascar, weighing 43 carats, was acquired for the gem collection by exchange. Dr. Stuart H. Perry continued his interest in the meteorite collection by donating a sample of his unique Scorti, Uganda, meteorite; other meteorites, mostly from the United States, were acquired by gifts or purchase.
As gifts, the Museum received Permian gastropods from the Florida Mountains, N. Mex., Miocene mollusks from Bogachiel River, Wash., Cretaceous and Tertiary Foraminifera from Egypt, Cretaceous invertebrates from Texas, Permian invertebrates from Sicily, Devonian fossils from Iowa, Tertiary invertebrates from Trinidad, and Foraminifera from the Gulf of Mexico.
Through funds provided by the Springer bequest, the Museum acquired 11 type specimens of Carboniferous and Ordovician crinoids

<<<Page: 28>>>

and 45 metatypes of other Ordovician crinoids from Oklahoma. The Museum purchased under the Walcott bequest Mesozoic invertebrates from the Austrian Alps, and Tertiary and Mesozoic brachiopods from Sicily. Fieldwork financed by the same bequest resulted in the collection in México of 900 rock samples containing Foraminifera by Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Dr. David H. Dunkle, and 10,000 invertebrates by Dr. G. A. Cooper, Arthur L. Bowsher, and William T. Allen in New Mexico, Texas, and Missouri.
Six transfers were received from the U.S. Geological Survey, among which were specimens sorted out from deep-sea cores obtained in the North Atlantic. Another transfer, received from the Office of Naval Research, contains the type specimens of fossil woods from the Cretaceous of Alaska described by Dr. C. A. Arnold of the University of Michigan.
One of the largest accessions, 500,000 Arctic Foraminifera, includes materials obtained during cruises of the U. S. S. Albatross, vessels under the command of Capt. R. A. Bartlett and Comdr. David C. Nutt, and specimens obtained by Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., under a grant from the Office of Naval Research.
New and interesting specimens have been acquired by exchange, including many genera and species of Foraminifera not hitherto represented in the collections; 158 invertebrates from the Triassic of England and the Tertiary of Germany; 355 Austrian Triassic brachiopods, from the Naturhistorisches Museum; and 69 Paleozoic and Cenozoic brachiopods from Japan, from the National University, Yokohama.
Transfers from the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys include, among others, a nearly complete skeleton of the fossil reptile Champsosaurus from the Paleocene of North Dakota, a plesiosaur skeleton from the Upper Cretaceous of Wyoming, and some 70 specimens of mammals from Oligocene and Miocene strata of the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Montana, all collected by Dr. T. E. White. An important assemblage of Paleocene mammalian jaws and teeth from the Bison Basin in central Wyoming as well as several small collections of mammals from Eocene beds of the Powder River and Wind River Basins in Wyoming and from the Eocene and Oligocene in Montana were transferred by the U.S. Geological Survey. Lower and Middle Cretaceous fishes were collected in México by Dr. David H. Dunkle under the income of the Walcott bequest. An excellent collection of cetacean and other mammalian remains from the Miocene of the Chesapeake Bay region made by the late Dr. R. Lee Collins was presented to the Museum by his wife.

<<<Page: 29>>>

Engineering and Industries
Nearly 500 electronic and radio devices collected and preserved by the late L. C. F. Horle, radio pioneer and engineer, were presented by Mrs. Susan Horle. Of equal interest is a small planing machine reputed to have been used to plane bamboo for the filaments of early Edison lamps, presented by Dr. Vannevar Bush. Allen Pope presented a gasoline engine made about 1898 by his father, Harry Pope, to power an experimental automobile. An apparatus for taking core samples of the ocean bottom, perfected by Dr. Charles S. Piggot and received from the Carnegie Institution of Washington, has considerable historical significance inasmuch as the subsequent development of this instrument has vastly extended knowledge of the ocean floor.
From Dr. Selman A. Waksman the Museum received the original shaking machine and inoculating needle used by him in the experiments that resulted in the discovery of the antibiotic streptomycin.
Another outstanding accession was the gift by the Lithographers National Association, Inc., of 142 lithographs, plates, and other technical materials which will be used in preparing a display of the history and techniques of offset lithography. José Ortiz Echagiie, a distinguished Spanish pictorial photographer, presented 15 of his carbon fresson process prints. Six prints by the English pictorialist, the late Alexander Keighley, were received from his estate.
A scale model of the Fourdrinier papermaking machine was presented by the Hammermill Paper Co., and one of a modern cotton ginning mill, constructed at the U. S. Cotton Laboratory, Stoneville, Miss., was transferred from the U. S. Department of Agriculture. A pictorial quilt of Fort Dearborn, made about 1815, was received from Mrs. John H. Snyder.
As exchanges, the Museum acquired 20 specimens of woods of Thailand from the Royal Forest Department, Bangkok. Study sets of the woods of New Zealand, Sarawak, and Iriomote Island were also added to the collection.
History
Of particular interest among the accessions was the gift by Mrs. Woodrow Wilson of the laces, embroidered linens, and a large gold, diamond, and lalique glass brooch which were presented to her when she accompanied President Wilson to Europe in 1919. The collection of dresses of the First Ladies of the White House was augmented by the dress which Mrs. Harry S. Truman presented to represent the administration of President Truman 1945-1953. A black crepe dress worn by Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom about 1880 was given to the costume collection by Mrs. Langley Moore of the London Museum of Costume.

<<<Page: 30>>>

The Department of Justice transferred 93 pistols needed to complete the series of modern firearms in the division of military history.
Further additions to the Straub collection of gold and silver coins were made by Paul A. Straub.
The Post Office Department transferred to the division of philately 3,198 recently issued stamps which had been distributed by the Universal Postal Union. Gifts of stamps also were received from the Governments of Monaco, Philippines, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Australia, and Norway, and from the United Nations Postal Administration. Outstanding additions to the philatelic collection include 12 volumes of stamps of Convention States of India from an anonymous donor; carrier stamps and rare foreign stamps from Philip H. Ward, Jr.; Nesbitt dies and postal fiscal stamps of Austria-Hungary from B. H. Homan; and United States precancels and Bureau print precancel errors from John R. Boker, Jr.

<<<Page: 31>>>

Care of Collections
Trans-
Gifts to yee Loaned for
Submitted Exchanged educato other study to in-
or with other tional Governvestigators
Received in identifiIdentified _instituinstitument and insti-
Department accessions cation on request tions tions agencies tutions
Anthropology. 10,540 2,555 2,555 39 196 0 395
Zoology... 211,677 41,016 31,402 5,485 7,479 2,305 56,143
Botanyarcmea. 82,984 16,796 11,078 10,862 1,172 0 13,559
Geology... 1,275,140 4,916 4,825 2,193 1,192 160 2,902 Engineering and
Industries . 2, 008 dod 750 0 13 7 350
History ... 25,562 17,125 16, 602 8 0 4 3,706
TotaL. 1,607,911 83,165 67,212 18,587 10,052 2,476 77,055
Anthropology
Resurveys of the study collections to eliminate objects lacking documentation or of no further scientific value have been carried out periodically for the past 20 years. Currently Robert A. Elder, Jr., has been resurveying the ethnological collections, developing much additional data on hitherto inadequately described items. A similar resurvey was continued in the archeological collections.
Now that steel racks have been installed to hold the specially constructed drawers for the physical anthropology specimens, it is now possible to number and arrange this valuable study collection so that the researcher can easily select individual skeletons, or large series of skeletons, and spread them out on large tables for measurement and comparison.
> Zoology
™ In line with a precedent set 8 years ago, when the merger of the ornithological collections of the Fish and Wildlife Service with those of the National Museum was initiated, the specimens of mammals of both collections are being organized into a single series according to the system used by the Museum. This entails a complete shifting of nearly 300,000 specimens and a general reallocation of storage space. When completed, all specimens will be much more readily available both to the staff and to visitors at a great saving of curatorial time.

<<<Page: 32>>>

In the closing weeks of the fiscal year the intercalation of the monotremes and the first family of the marsupials of the one collection in the other marked the beginning of this long-term operation. The merging of the collections of bird skins progressed most satisfactorily. Some 173,000 specimens, occupying 200 quarter-unit cases and covering the families from the Cinclidae to the Fringillidae, were merged. Something over 1,200 specimens of reptiles and amphibians were identified and added to the rather crowded study collections.
To alleviate overcrowding in the fish collection the practice of combining many small catalog lots from one general locality in larger containers of alcohol was continued, and appropriately tagged specimens of large fishes were preserved together in large tanks at a great saving of space.
In the continuing program of bringing the insect collections up to date, about two-fifths of the Korschefsky collection was incorporated with the Museum’s collection of Coccinellidae. In the division of marine invertebrates the rearrangement of the collection of hydromedusae in alphabetical order was begun. This arrangement has been found necessary for all groups for which there is no specialist on the staff, to facilitate the filing of new material and the removal of lots for study by outside investigators. The entire sponge collection also was inspected and consolidated to provide space for new material.
Further progress was made in the rearrangement of the mollusks of the eastern Atlantic. Most of the Henry B. Ward collection of helminths is still uncataloged, and the recently received George La Rue collection has been added to the cataloging backlog, which totals now about 6,700 lots needing to be filed in the study collections. With segregation of the coral types completed by Dr. John W. Wells, of Cornell University, all types in the coral collection have now been brought together.
The curatorial staff of the division of marine invertebrates continues to maintain the alcoholic echinoderm collections, which have been without an official curator since December 1950. ¥
In the care given the reptile, bird, and mammal collections by the exhibits preparators are to be included the skinning of three large tortoises and two large snakes; the making or remaking of 236 bird and 36 mammal skins; and the cleaning of 139 bird skeletons, 51 mammal skeletons, and 2,400 mammal] skulls.

<<<Page: 33>>>

Botany
The major activities in caring for the permanent botanical collections and the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:
1951-52 1952-58
Specimens mMOuntEGe nsw hie a EAs eee ee eee 37, 886 34, 616 Specimens repaired sx. eS eee ak Cee bs 4,566 4,935 Specimens stamped and recorded. ........ 40,225 36, 655 Specimens incorporated in herbarium ....... 47,406 30, 831 Ehotographs mounted sa-cmi serene Sete 1,851 1,810
The segregated type herbarium now contains 53,930 types, 1,162 having been added during the year. Except for cryptogams, they were mostly from recent accessions, the known types already having been taken from the general herbarium. Many types of cryptogams remain in the general collections, although the acting curator, C. V. Morton, picked out 689 this year. The number of types segregated, by divisions, is as follows: Phanerogams, 37,930; grasses, 9,801; ferns, 3,170; cryptogams, 3,029.
The Hitchcock and Chase Library was increased by 42 publications on grasses, making a total of 7,018. The number of entries in the grass species index is now 78,428, having added 421 during the year. To the special collection of fruits, which has a total of 1,084 specimens, 20 were added. Fumigating the herbarium once has proved to be adequate; no insect infestation has been noted and the source of any new infection is practically eliminated by the fumigation of all incoming material.
Geology
In the division of mineralogy and petrology and of vertebrate paleontology the collections are now in well-ordered condition, with adequate facilities for expansion for several years to come. Work on the condensation of the collections of the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany has progressed and much-needed space and equipment has been recovered thereby, although not enough to accommodate all the collections still without accessible storage facilities. ;
In the lapidary shop 46 meteorites were sawn, ground, polished, and etched; 412 specimens of rocks, minerals and ores were sawn and polished; 47 thin sections prepared for study purposes; 15 plaster bases made for exhibition use; and 7 plaster molds prepared.
All type specimens in the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany have now been segregated except the brachiopods. These are awaiting the accumulation of a sufficient number of drawers to contain them. Museum Aide Allen continued his efforts to put

<<<Page: 34>>>

the type collections into order by, alphabetizing the insect and trilobite types, the latter being one of the largest of the type groups. The Paleozoic paleobotanical collections are now in good order, thanks to Dr. Serge Mamay of the U. S. Geological Survey. The Tertiary types have been segregated and put in good order by Mrs. Ellen Trumbull, also of the Geological Survey. Museum Aide Allen has continued his putting the stratigraphic collections in order.
Associate Curator Loeblich spent considerable time integrating with the national collection the Cushman collection of Foraminifera and materials accumulated by gift and exchange. Museum Aide Jones covered thousands of slides of Foraminifera with glass covers and aluminum holders, providing them with permanent, secure mounts.
Curator G. A. Cooper devoted time to the sorting of genera and species from the Permian fossils accumulated from the etching of limestone blocks. Of this collection, occupying between 500 and 600 drawers and including hundreds of thousands of specimens, 125 drawers have been sorted with a saving of drawer space of nearly 50 percent. The curator also rearranged the brachiopod collection to get more drawer space and to accommodate the 146 drawers of Ordovician brachiopods recently studied.
Engineering and Industries
Thousands of objects in the study collection of the department were moved from crowded locations, where they were exposed to damage, to the newly constructed storage area. Some collections are together for the first time and the organization and accessibility of most of them have been greatly improved.
Several hundred signed proofs of American wood engravings were removed from mats on which they were tightly stretched and vulnerable to damage, and rematted for safe preservation.
History
With the appointment of a scientific aide, it has become possible to start on the long-needed checking and renovation of the study collections, a task that will continue through the next year.
Experimentation on techniques for the restoration and preservation of objects recovered from sea water continued. Most of the objects now recovered can be preserved, even when in advanced stages of oxidization.
The reference collections of pistols was entirely rearranged in specially designed drawers developed by Assistant Curator Sirlouis

<<<Page: 35>>>

and Assistant Curator Goins. The reference collections of swords and long arms were installed in racks.
The inventory and rearrangement of the reference collections of stamps continued under Curator of Philately Franklin R. Bruns, Jr. Stamps from all sources are being brought together into an orderly system, old stock books that have deteriorated are being replaced, and all reference material is now stored in safes. The main collection, housed in the display cabinets, is in process of being checked and remounted on Scott specialty pages donated last year by Gordon Harmer, of Scott Publications, Inc. This remounting is being done in alphabetical sequence to avoid overlapping, and may possibly result in the elimination (for display purposes) of postage-due adhesives of all foreign countries.

<<<Page: 36>>>

Investigation and Research
Each year the curators of the National Museum find it more difficult to conduct the research investigations that are the bone and sinew of the Museum, that make it a place of study and enlightenment, that distinguish it from a mere storehouse or ossuary. More and more the pressure of administrative details and the shortage of trained assistants force them to carry on part or all of this essential work outside of office hours.
This condition has many causes and is not to be remedied by any simple panacea. Whatever the causes, the result is that research is usually done under many handicaps. In such circumstances, for the curators to accomplish so much work of such high order is a tribute to their professional integrity and their personal loyalty to the Institution.
Anthropology
In collaboration with the Director of the National Collection of Fine Arts, Thomas M. Beggs, Head Curator Frank M. Setzler prepared a descriptive catalog for the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition being circulated throughout the country. Entitled ‘Art and Magic in Arnhem Land, Australia,” it describes the land, the people, and their legends and material culture. Publication was financed through the Alice Pike Barney fund. Head Curator Setzler was elected president of the Washington Academy of Sciences.
Archeology.—Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of archeology, from July until September 1952 was in camp near Cody, Wyo., where he represented the Smithsonian Institution in a joint excavation project with Princeton University at the site of a buffalo kill and camp used by hunters some thousands of years ago. Investigations were carried on here in 1949-50 by Princeton; the 1952 program involved a combined geological, paleontological, and archeological attack on the closely interrelated problems of all these fields. Among the scattered and fragmentary remains of some 200 bison were found about 250 chipped-stone implements, including projectile points, knives, scrapers, gravers, and chopping tools. Unlike most similar Yuma sites it has yielded an assemblage of tools permitting definition of its culture complex and a comparison of the complex with that of other early man assemblages such as the Lindenmeier, Folsom, and Shoop
272468—53——_3 25

<<<Page: 37>>>

sites. Radiocarbon dates on charcoal collected in 1952 gave an average date of 6920-500 years ago, averaging very close to the figure of 68764250 years ago obtained from burned bison bone two years previously. ‘The complex thus falls between such early horizons as Folsom and Clovis, on the one hand, and such later ones as Signal Butte I and others of later prepottery times. Following termination of the fieldwork, Dr. Wedel examined collections at Boulder, Colo., in search of comparative materials from eastern Colorado and elsewhere in the High Plains.
During the fall, Dr. Wedel presented a review of Plains archeology in a symposium on the present status of New World archeology, at the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association in Philadelphia. To a symposium on human ecology at the annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology and the Central States Anthropological Society in Urbana, IIl., he presented a paper reviewing certain interactions between man and his physical environment in the Central Plains. Near completion is a short paper on earthenware and steatite pottery in the Yellowstone National Park region, northwestern Wyoming, and another is in preparation describing and comparing pottery vessels collected from the Upper Missouri Valley tribes during the nineteenth century.
From October 1952 to April 1953, Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator in archeology, conducted archeological research in British Guiana, South America. This project was made possible by a Fulbright Research grant, funds from the Smithsonian Institution, and other grants to Dr. Betty J. Meggers, the other anthropologist on the expedition. British Guiana is significant to the understanding of the development of aboriginal culture in northeastern South America, for to date almost nothing has been known of this area from an archeological standpoint. Thanks to the magnificent cooperation of Mr. Vincent Roth, curator, and Mr. Ram S. Singh, assistant curator, of the British Guiana Museum, and of Colonial officials, much more work was accomplished than originally planned. Ninety-five archeological sites were studied and excavated. While on the Upper Essequibo River Dr. Evans conducted ethnological studies and obtained a collection of the material cultural objects of the Wei Wei Indians,
In collaboration with Dr. Betty J. Meggers he carried forward the manuscript describing archaeological materials excavated on the Lower Amazon, in the Territory of Amap& and on the Islands of Mexiana, Caviana, and Marajé, by the expedition of the Columbia University Department of Anthropology, in 1948-49.
At the request of a field party of the U. S. Geological Survey working in the Monument Valley-Comb Ridge area of northeastern Ari

<<<Page: 38>>>

zona, Dr. Walter W. Taylor, collaborator in anthropology, visited 41 sites, of which he found 20 worthy of site designation and from 17 of which sherd collections were made. Immediately after the field work, Dr. Taylor went to Flagstaff, where the collections and library of the Museum of Northern Arizona were generously put at his disposal for the study of the sherd collection.
Physical anthropology.—Dr. T. Dale Stewart, curator of physical anthropology, continued his analysis of the occurrence of neural arch defects in the lumbar vertebrae of Eskimos and Aleuts. In the early 1930’s when Smithsonian expeditions to Alaska obtained large collections of human skeletal remains, it was observed that one or more of the vertebrae in the lower back showed arch defects. In some cases much of the arch was a separate piece of bone, a condition considered at the time largely hereditary. Recent examination of about 800 skeletons, including those of children from the same regions, shows such arch defects to be rare in early years, but to occur more and more frequently up to about age 40, leading Dr. Stewart to conclude that arch defects are primarily due to bone fatigue resulting from prolonged unusual postures. The collection as a whole yields an adult incidence of about 35 percent, in contrast to an incidence of about 5 percent in the present-day white population.
The historic Indian village of Patawomeke in Stafford County, Va., was one of the Potomac River villages visited by Capt. John Smith in 1608. It was from this village that Pocahontas was abducted in 1613 by Captain Argall and taken to Jamestown. Excavations carried on at this site between 1935 and 1940, largely by Smithsonian expeditions, revealed five pits, or ossuaries, used for secondary burials. Dr. Stewart spent considerable time during the year analyzing both the excavation records and the ‘skeletal material.
Through the kindness of Dr. William J. Mulloy, archeologist of the University of Wyoming, Dr. Stewart was enabled to study an important early human skull from the Keyhole Reservoir area of Wyoming. About twenty years ago a Smithsonian expedition discovered in Nebraska an early pre-ceramic culture to which was given the name Signal Butte I. Dr. Mulloy has now found a similar horizon in Wyoming, and in addition for the first time has found a human skull in association. The radiocarbon date obtained on materials from this cultural level is around 3,000 years ago. Dr. Stewart’s examination of the skull showed that the physical type is not very different from that of certain Indian tribes living in this area, providing an indication of the antiquity of this Indian physical type.
Dr. Marshall T. Newman, associate curator of physical anthropology, presented a paper, ‘‘Adaptive Change and Race Formation in the Aborigmal New World,” at a meeting of the American Association

<<<Page: 39>>>

of Physical Anthropologists. He also prepared a summary of the racial anthropology of the aboriginal Northwest Coast for inclusion in the book by Philip Drucker, ‘“The Northwest Coast.’”’ He substantially advanced his researches on the large, well-preserved skeletal series probably representing the Arikara Indians from Mobridge, S. Dak., and undertook the description of several small lots of skeletal material from Georgia and Mississippi, for inclusion in archaeological reports. Dr. Newman was elected president of the Anthropological Society of Washington.
Ethnology.—Curator Herbert W. Krieger completed a scenario for a diorama on the Lucayan Indians, of Long Island, Bahamas, based on his excavations there in 1947 and on Spanish source material. The third of a series designed to illustrate native cultures of the peoples of the Western Hemisphere, it portrays the first native American Indian community to be seen and described by Europeans.
Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins continued the study of the simple pottery types found at Jamestown, Va., and other colonial sites. Classification of characteristic types is being made. He was ussisted by the division of ceramics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in making comparative microscopic analyses and by British Museum personnel in obtaining historical and technical information. The project should provide a basis for the future identification of ceramic wares of the colonial period and the extent of local colonial ceramic manufacture as compared with importations from abroad.
Associate Curator John C. Ewers completed editing for the Missouri Historical Society the Denig manuscript describing the cultures of five Indian tribes of the upper Missouri River Valley in the second quarter of the nineteenth century. He continued with the studies of historical change in Plains Indian costume, spending two weeks studying the collections of documented Plains Indian specimens in the American Museum of Natural History, Museum of the American Indian, and the Brooklyn Museum. He also continued his study of the history of wampum. In June Mr. Ewers was conducting field investigations of Assiniboin Indian arts and crafts on Fort Peck and Fort Belknap Reservations, Mont.
Research by visiting investigators.—During the past year 3,747 visitors conferred with members of the staff, 3,095 letters were written in answer to requests for anthropological data, and 7,146 telephonic inquiries were answered. Among the 270 scholars using the reserve collections were 30 scientists from the following foreign countries: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, British West Indies, Canada, Ceylon, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, El Salvador, Formosa, France, Great Britain, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, South Africa,

<<<Page: 40>>>

Thailand, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. The wide range of interest of these individuals is indicated by a few examples:
Dr. Ronald Singer, professor of anatomy, University of Cape Town, South Africa, correlation of suture closure with age at death, in human skulls.
Dr. Sood Sangvichien, professor of anatomy, University of Medical Sciences, Thailand, instructions in anthropometry and newer developments in American physical anthropology.
Dr. Franjo Ivanicek, head of the Anthropological Institute, University of Zagreb, Yugoslavia, under a contract between the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the Smithsonian Institution, correlation of the micromorphology of the skull vault with age, sex, and race.
Frederic H. Douglas, Indian Arts and Crafts Board and staff member of Denver Art Museum, kachinas of the Hopi Indians.
Paul H. Guevara, writer, paraphernalia of Comanche warriors and their methods of warfare.
W. Smith and Larry Atkins, Saturday Evening Post, early American bathtubs in the Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood collection.
Francis W. Glaze, National Bureau of Standards, historical research on glass technology.
John R. Catch, Galpin Society and Dolmetsch Foundation, Buckinghamshire, England, harpsichords.
Mrs. Lewis W. Allen, New York, research on lamps and lighting devices.
Dr. Chen Shao-hsing and Mr. Chen Chi-lu, National Taiwan University, Taipei, problems of Formosan ethnology and aboriginal Formosan ethnography.
Dr. Jose Cruxent, director of the Museum of Natural Science, Caracas, ethnology and archeology of Amazonas Territory, Venezuela, also European trade materials.
A. Gunasekara, Department of National Museum, Colombo, Ceylon, problems of museum exhibition, preparation of ethnographical exhibits.
Dr. Thomas W. Whitaker, senior geneticist, U. S. Department of Agriculture, and Hugh C. Cutler, curator of economic botany, Chicago Museum of Natural History, records of squash seeds in Museum’s collection of aboriginal foods.
Dr. Fridtjor Isachsen, professor of geography, University of Oslo, Norway, Plains Indians’ use of the Black Hills and Wind River Mountains.
Bryan Holme, president, The Studio Publications, Inc., New York, George Catlin paintings.
Dr. Jorgen Paulsen, Denmark, paintings by George Catlin.
Henry C. Gipson, Museum Extension Service, New York, the buffalo and westward expansion.
Raymond R. Townsend, Shoemaker’s Shop, Williamsburg, Va., research on shoes and leatherwork of eighteenth century colonial America.
John Hemphill, Williamsburg, Va., craft program in silversmithing.
Zoology
Mammals.—Further progress has been made by Dr. David H. Johnson, acting curator, in his studies of the mammals of the Australian Arnhem Land Expedition of 1948, and those collected in the South Pacific during World War II. He also completed some interrupted studies of several species of the genus Rattus in connection with his taxonomic survey of the murine rodents.

<<<Page: 41>>>

Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator, completed his report on the mammals of the Arctic slope of Alaska for the Office of Naval Research, and now is concentrating on a study of the mammals collected in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan by U. S. Naval Medical Research Unit No.3. Progress was also made on a revision of American shrews of the genus Crypiotis. For five weeks in January and February Dr. Setzer was with the 25th Preventive Medicine Survey Detachment, U. S. Army, in Panama and the Canal Zone, instructing personnel in the methods of collecting and preparing specimens of mammals involved in their parasitological and epidemiological studies of human disease.
As a part of his general studies of the systematics of American high Arctic mammals, Assistant Curator C. O. Handley, Jr., worked on a revision of the Arctic foxes. He also studied the American big-eared bats of the genus Corynorhinus and completed his review of the vole Phenacomys. Mr. Handley spent seven months of the year in the Kalahari Desert region of South-West Africa, where he observed and collected mammals and assisted in ethnological investigations of the primitive Bushmen, as a member of the Peabody—Harvard Expedition, led by L. K. Marshall, of Cambridge, Mass. Toward the close of the year he devoted a week to field work in the Dismal Swamp of Virginia, gathering specimens and data for a chapter on mammals in a book about the Swamp that the Virginia Academy of Sciences has in preparation.
Birds.—The curator, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, completed his monograph of the honey guides, a joint paper with Foster D. Smith on the birds of northeastern Venezuela, and the manuscript for the ranges of the last sections of the Fringillidae for the fifth edition of the A. O. U. Check-List of North American Birds. With F. H. Glenny, he finished a study of the reduction of the clavicles in the Mesoenatidae. He also continued his work on the second volume of the ‘‘Distributional Check-List of the Birds of Mexico.”’
H. G. Deignan, associate curator, spent the year in Thailand in continuation of his study of the avifauna of that country. S. A. Arny, museum aid, published ‘a paper on the taxonomic status of the bank swallows of North America, and continued his studies of the flycatchers of the genus Myiarchus. Dr. A. Wetmore, research associate, studied Panamanian and Colombian birds, and published a paper on the birds of Taboga, Taboguilla, and Urava, Panama, and three papers (with W. H. Phelps, Jr.) on Venezuelan birds.
Reptiles.—Since the submission of the manuscript of her monographic work on the frogs of southeastern Brazil, now in press, Dr. Doris M. Cochran, associate curator, has been occupied with her report on the frogs of western Brazil, an undertaking of some magni

<<<Page: 42>>>

tude that was about half completed at the close of the year. She published a paper describing three new Brazilian frogs of two different genera, and continued with her catalog of types of reptiles and amphibians in the National collections and a supplement to her “Herpetology of Hispianola.”
Fishes.—Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator, and Dr. Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator, gave first priority to the preparation of volume 2 of the comprehensive study of ‘“The Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands,”’ of which the first volume was in page proof at the close of the year. So far, 69 families, 232 genera, and 618 species of fishes have been covered, leaving but 3 large and 5 small families to do. Nine papers, three prepared jointly with others, were published by Dr. Schultz during the year; three others are in press. One of Dr. Lachner’s completed reports was published, and three others are either in press or soon to be submitted for publication.
On March 19, 1953, the Award for Scientific Achievement in the Biological Sciences by the Washington Academy of Sciences for 1952 was conferred on Dr. Lachner in recognition of his work on the taxonomy of the cardinalfishes (Apogonidae) and goatfishes (Mullidae).
William T. Leapley, biological aide, completed two manuscripts and has in progress a study of the characteristics of the pharyngeal bones of the parrot fishes. He received the degree of master of science from George Washington University on November 11, 1952. His thesis dealt with ‘‘The Cranial Osteology of the Bluefish Pomatomus saltatriz (Linnaeus).”’
Robert H. Kanazawa, biological aide, published three research papers and is at present occupied with a revision of the Conger eels of the genus Conger. This study is about two-thirds completed.
Insects.—Curator E. A. Chapin continued his studies of the Colombian beetles of the family Coccinellidae, completing the identifications for most of the major species, and initiated a survey of the Coccinellidae of Micronesia.
Dr. R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator, continued with his bibliography and index of Bulletin 185, ‘(Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico, Central America, the West Indies, and South America,” of which five parts have already appeared.
In connection with his taxonomic monograph of the Lycaenidae, Associate Curator William D. Field continued with the Theclinae of the New World, nearly completing manuscripts dealing with three species groups within the genus Thecla. About 25 percent of the revisions necessitated by his taxonomic studies on the family Pieridae have been completed, and revisionary work on other genera is in progress.

<<<Page: 43>>>

Associate Curator O. L. Cartwright completed his study of a group of scarab beetles within the subfamily Geotrupinae and made further progress with species of the genus Psammodius in the subfamily Aphodiinae. Sorting of material in preparation for reports on the Scarabaeidae of Bimini and of Micronesia was begun.
Grace Glance, associate curator, is still much occupied with the remounting of improperly prepared types in the collection, but was able to give some time to work on certain new species of Collembola.
Sophy Parfin almost completed her work on the revision of the neuropteran family Sisyridae.
Marine invertebrates.—Curator F. A. Chace, Jr., about completed his manuscript for the chapter on the Crustacea Malacostraca for the revised edition of “Fresh-water Biology” by Ward and Whipple, as well as his report on some shrimps from the Marshall Islands collected by expeditions sponsored by the U. S. Department of the Navy in 1946 and 1947.
F. M. Bayer, associate curator, had three studies in progress: Hawaiian scleraxonian gorgonians collected by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross; the alcyonarians described in Rumphius’ “Herbarium Amboinense,” for a Rumphius memorial volume to be published by the Royal Herbarium of the Netherlands; and the section on the Octocorallia for a forthcoming ‘Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology.” A recently completed paper by him on the evolution and zoogeography of the family Gorgoniidae, based largely on available published and unpublished data, was submitted for publication.
Clarence R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, completed a manuscript on some American west-coast amphipods containing descriptions of a new species and a new variety, and nearly finished a report on the extensive collection of amphipods made off Point Barrow, Alaska, by Dr. G. E. MacGinitie in 1948-1950.
Mrs. M.S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea, continued work preliminary to a monographic report on the North American copepods of the genus Diaptomus, and completed a paper diagnosing and giving distribution records of inadequately known North American species of this genus. With W. G. Moore, she published new Louisiana records of Diaptomus sanguineus and allied species and the description of a new species of the genus.
This year 30 zoologists in various parts of the world were of greatest service in identifying specimens of many groups of invertebrate animals for which the Museum is unable to support specialists on its own staff. In many cases they prepared manuscript reports for publication, thus making possible the dissemination of all significant data derived from their sudy of the material submitted to them. Most of the volunteer collaborators on the following list (with groups worked

<<<Page: 44>>>

on) have so served the division
of marine invertebrates and the
Museum for a number of years past:
Dr. Donald P. Abbott: Tunicates.
Dr. Albert H. Banner: Mysid crustaceans and snapping shrimps.
Dr. H. Barnes: Barnacles.
Dr. J. L. Brooks: Cladoceran crustaceans.
Dr. Oskar Carlgren: Sea anemones.
Dr. Wesley R. Coe: Nemertean worms.
Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann: Holothurians.
Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: Branchiopod crustaceans. Dr. Walter K. Fisher: Sipunculoid, echiuroid, and priapuloid worms. Dr. H. E. Gruner: Mud shrimps and hippas.
Dr. Olga Hartman: Polychaete worms.
Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth: Sea anemones.
Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles.
Dr. Arthur G. Humes: Copepod crustaceans.
Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.
Dr. Paul L. Illg: Copepod and branchiuran crustaceans.
Dr. M. W. de Laubenfels: Sponges.
Dr. Folke Linder: Branchiopod crustaceans.
Dr. J. G. Mackin: Isopod crustaceans.
Dr. N. T. Mattox: Branchiopod crustaceans.
Dr. Robert J. Menzies: Isopod crustaceans,
Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.
Dr. Milton A. Miller: Isopod crustaceans.
Dr. Raymond C. Osburn: Bryozoans.
Dr. Grace E. Pickford: Earthworms.
Dr. E. Lowe Pierce: Chaetognaths.
Dr. Edward G. Reinhard: Rhizocephalan crustaceans.
Dr. Willis L. Tressler: Ostracod crustaceans.
Mrs. Mildred 8. Wilson: Copepod crustaceans.
Dr. Harry C. Yeatman: Copepod crustaceans.
Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder undertook some preliminary work gathering data for a synoptic treatment of the superfamily Pyramidellacea for the ‘“Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology.”
Dr. J. P. E. Morrison, associate curator, continued his revisional
and anatomical research on the Conidae of the Marshall Islands, the eyclophorid land mollusks of America, the Hybrobiidae of the Americas, and the family Ellobiidae. He also spent some time on revising his manuscripts on the fresh-water snails of the family Thiaridae, and on the cowries (Cypraeidae) of the Marshall Islands. In June and July 1952 he was a member of a team studying coral-atoll ecology on Raroia Atoll in the Tuamotus, under the auspices of the Pacific Science Board of the National Research Council.
Associate Curator R. Tucker Abbott completed and submitted for publication several studies on marine mollusks of the Western Atlantic, initiated a study of certain pelagic snails of the Gulf of Mexico, and began the preparation of a monograph of the Synceridae of the Western Pacific. Some further progress was also made on a contemplated monograph dealing with the Neritidae of the Marshall Islands.
Dr. Paul Bartsch, associate in mollusks, continued his study of the Pyramidellidae of the St. Petersburg Pliocene and wrote two papers

<<<Page: 45>>>

describing new species of marine mollusks from the east coast of the United States.
Echinoderms.—Austin H. Clark, associate in zoology, continued with the Ophiuroidia of the Snellius expedition entrusted to him by the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, and a general review of the echinoderms of the Pacific islands, centered on Pacific Science Board material collected by the various field parties of its coral atoll research program. Mr. Clark has in press reports on various records and several collections from the Indo-Pacific and the Gulf of Mexico, and on echinoderms from buoys and mooring chains from the coasts of the United States, and five dealing with other fields of zoological interest—the faunas of North, Central, and South America, the ecology, evolution, and distribution of the vertebrates, and the butterflies of Dismal Swamp, Va. Seven papers previously completed were published during the year.
Research by visiting investigators.—In addition to investigations from government agencies located in the Washington area, more than 220 professional biologists and students with an interest in systematic biology paid one or more visits to the offices and laboratories of the department, some staying for a considerable time. Among the foreign visitors were the following:
Dr. Pablo Anduze, Venezuelan Ministry of Education: Venezuelan mammals and Diptera.
Dr. R. L. Peterson, Royal Ontario Museum of Zoology: Canadian mammals,
EK. M. Hagmeier, University of British Columbia: Martens.
Dr. Finnur Gudmundsson, Natural History Museum, Reykjavik, Iceland: Holarctic birds.
Dr. W. H. Phelps and Foster D. Smith, Jr., Caracas, Venezuela: Venezuelan birds.
Donald W. Strasburg, University of Hawaii: Central Pacific fishes.
H. Steinez, Hebrew University, Israel: Fishes of Palestine and the Red Sea.
Gustavo de la Torre R., OFAR, Lima, Pert: Peruvian insects of economic importance.
Dr. Theodoros Buchelos, Department of Agriculture, Patras, Greece: Mites of economic importance.
Dr. Annamma Philip, Indian Central Tobacco Comm., Madras, India: Fruit flies.
Pedro Araoz, Tingo Maria, Peri: Museum methods.
Drs. Bryan P. Beirne, Eugene Munroe, and W. J. Brown, Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada: Respectively, leafhoppers, Lepidoptera, Pyraustidae, and beetles.
J. Maldonado Capriles, University of Puerto Rico, Mayagiiez, Puerto Rico: Leafhoppers.
Dr. W. R. Thompson, Science Service, Ottawa, Canada: West Indian parasitic flies.
Dr. F. Monrés, Fundacion Miguel Lillo, Tucum4n, Argentina: Chrysomelid beetles,
Dr. R. L. Araujo, Instituto Biolégico, Sio Paulo, Brazil: Termites.
Leopoldo Gomez Alonso, Quito, Ecuador: General entomology.

<<<Page: 46>>>

Victoriano J. Madrid, Bureau of Plant Industry, Los Bafios, Philippine Islands: Museum techniques.
Dr. W. Haliburton, Division of Forest Biology, Ottawa, Canada: Cerambycids.
Dr. José C. M. Carvalho, Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Mirid bugs.
Dr. Nazeer A. Janua, Deputy Director, Department of Plant Protection, Karachi, Pakistan: Museum methods.
Dr. R. G. Fennah, Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture, St. Augustine, Trinidad: Fulgorid bugs.
Dr. L. B. Holthuis, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Holland: Decapod crustaceans of the Pacific Islands.
Dr. Isabel Perez-Farfante, Universidad de La Habana: Commercial shrimps of Cuba.
Dr. Dorothy L. Travis, Bermuda Biological Station: Literature of the spiny lobsters.
Dr. Freydoun A. Afshar, Department of Mines, Tehran, Iran: Mollusks of the family Tellinidae.
Dr. T. Soot-Ryen, Tromsg Museum, Troms¢, Norway: Mollusks of the family Mytilidae; and the zoogeography and ecology of Arctic mollusks.
Dr. Bengt Hubendick, Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden: Freshwater mollusks of the families Lymnaeidae and Planorbidae.
Dr. Alan Mozley, London, England: Fresh-water mollusks of the Near East and Canada.
Dr. Robert W. Hiatt, Department of Zoology and Entomology, University of Hawaii: Ecology of Pacific coral atolls.
Botany
Phanerogams.—Dr. A. C. Smith, curator, submitted for publication two papers in his series, “‘Studies of Pacific Island Plants,”’ completing the project undertaken in 1947. Three papers describing new species of tropical American plants were also completed by him during the year.
The Smithsonian Institution received a grant from the National Science Foundation in support of further field studies by him in Fiji preliminary to the preparation of a definitive Flora of Fiji. He left Washington on March 6, his third visit to Fiji, with the intention of continuing field studies until January 1954. He hopes to reach those parts of the archipelago that seem most in need of collecting, primarily upland regions in south-central Viti Levu; visits to the islands of Ovalau, Taveuni, and Ngau are also projected, the exact itinerary depending on local circumstances.
Dr. L. B. Smith, associate curator, continued work on separate accounts of the Bromeliaceae of Colombia, Bolivia, and Brazil, most of his efforts being devoted to the citation of specimens and detailed geographic studies of the 550 Brazilian species. A treatment of the Colombian Violaceae, prepared jointly with Mr. Alvaro Fernandez, was completed. He also collaborated with Dr. Bernice G. Schubert of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, in the collection of plant

<<<Page: 47>>>

material for analysis by the Heart Institute, National Institutes of Health.
Associate Curator E. C. Leonard, is bringing to completion the third and last part of his revision of the Colombian Acanthaceae, having described 82 species, including 58 new to science, and drawn 63 accompanying illustrations. He has submitted for publication a report on the Acanthaceae in Julian A. Steyermark’s Venezuelan collections, and with Dr. H. A. Allard has continued the preparation of an annotated list of the species in the Potomac—Virginia Triassic region.
Associate Curator E. H. Walker continued to develop the data accumulated during his visit to the Ryukyu Islands last year and completed a reference booklet, “Important Trees of the Ryukyu Islands.” This is the first work of its kind for the Ryukyus and is basic to the development of forestry there.
Dr. Velva E. Rudd, assistant curator, has essentially completed the manuscript of a revision of the American species of Aeschynomene (Leguminosae). This was presented in partial fulfillment of the requirements for her Ph. D., which was received from the George Washington University in February. She began a study of the remaining American genera of the subtribe Aeschynomeninae.
Research Associate E. P. Killip continued his critical field studies of the plants of Big Pine Key, Fla., with the intention of preparing an account of this fast-disappearing flora. He also spent several months on the Isle of Pines, Cuba, collecting plants for the Museum.
Grasses.—Curator Jason R. Swallen completed his manuscript on the Gramineae for the flora of Guatemala being published by the Chicago Natural History Museum. Some progress was made on preparing an account of the grasses of southern Brazil.
Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator, submitted for publication two papers on floral morphology, one on Cenchrus and Pennisetum, and the other on Jzophorus unisetus. He spent several weeks during October and November collecting grasses in México, mostly in the State of Guanajuato, a region poorly represented in the National Herbarium, as shown by a preliminary survey. A large proportion of the specimens collected represent extension of ranges or first records for the state. The field work contributes to the long-term project on the grasses of México, recently initiated.
Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, continued her studies of special groups which have been of particular interest to her.
Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, completed a manuscript on the native and cultivated bamboos of Guatemala. This is to be included in the Gramineae for the Flora of Guatemala being published by the Chicago Natural History Museum.

<<<Page: 48>>>

Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton has continued his studies of the ferns of Central America, of Honduras and Guatemala in particular, with a view to the preparation of regional fern floras that will include descriptions, keys, synonymy, and other pertinent information useful not merely for the identification of specimens, but for fern students in general. A short paper on the nomenclature of the genus Anetvum was published during the year, and various other brief papers were prepared. The treatment of the ferns and fern allies of the northeastern United States and Canada, completed some years ago, was finally published.
As a member of the International Committee for the Nomenclature of Phanerogamae and Pteridophyta, the curator was occupied on bibliographic work in connection with decisions on various proposed nomina conservanda. In September he attended the summer field trip of the American Fern Society to selected localities in Vermont and New York.
Cryptogams.—Associate Curator Paul Conger continued his studies of the diatom Rhizosolenia eriensis and allied forms, and the study of an interesting marine diatom from the coast of Florida. He began a study of the ecology and taxonomy of the diatoms of Chincoteague Bay, Md., and delivered a lecture, ‘‘Nature and Significance of Diatoms,”’ at the Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, Solomons Island, Md.
Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. Jestis M. Idrobo, of the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogoté, Colombia, returned to Colombia in September after spending more than a year at the National Herbarium continuing his studies of the flora of Colombia. Dr. Alicia Lourteig, of the Fundacién Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina, arrived in January to consult South American material in the herbarium of the families Ranunculaceae, Lythraceae, and Celastraceae. More than 700 persons visited the department, including 34 from 20 foreign countries. Of these, 62 remained for brief periods to make use of the collections of the National Herbarium in furthering their research projects. The herbarium has been consulted regularly by staff members of other Government agencies, particularly the Bureau of Plant Industry, Soils and Agricultural Engineering, the Forest Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Geological Survey. To these staff members 26 informal loans, totaling 1,087 specimens, were made to facilitate their work.
Geology
Mineralogy and petrology.—The extensive record and the collections of materials from Paricutin made by the head curator during 1942-1945 will continue to be a source for studies for some time to

<<<Page: 49>>>

come. With the extinction of the volcano in March 1952, a summary report of its birth, development, and death has been prepared for publication. A sample of the final lava is awaited to complete a study of the changes in the chemical and petrological characters of the lavas. Studies on the aqueous emissions and fumarolic products have been started.
Two studies on jade are being undertaken by the head curator. One, on the mineralogical nature of the archeological jades, undertaken in cooperation with the Instituto de Antropologia e Historia, Guatemala, is complete except for the determination of the precise optical properties of the minerals, delayed pending the acquisition of new equipment now received. The other, an outgrowth of the first, concerns the natural system of minerals jadeite-diopside-acmite. Undertaken in collaboration with Associate Curator George Switzer, and with Mr. Joseph Fahey, of the U. S. Geological Survey, it will correlate the chemical composition and the optical properties of this series of minerals, and will systematize their relationships.
The head curator presented a paper at the annual conclave of the American Gem Society describing present day conditions in the famous gem cutting center Idar-Oberstein, Germany.
Dr. Foshag was elected president of the Section of Volcanology of the Geophysical Union for the term 1953-1956.
Associate Curator Switzer, in collaboration with the head curator, completed the annual review of the diamond industry for 1952, which was published by the Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone. This review includes summaries of diamond mining, cutting and marketing conditions, with statistics, of all the important diamond centers of the world. A briefer summary relating to gem stone production is prepared annually for the U. S. Bureau of Mines for publication in its Minerals Yearbook. A reexamination of the rare and unusual mineral mosesite, also undertaken in collaboration with the head curator and Joseph Fahey and Jack Murata of the U. S. Geological Survey, identified this mineral as a type of chemical compound not previously recognized in the mineral kingdom. Other short studies report an occurrenee of the rare mineral burkeite in Italy, and demonstrate the identity of the doubtful species hydrocuprite with cuprite. A study of the minerals making up the remains of some microfossils shows a rather surprising range of mineralogy in these fossils. In continuance of his work, he also added 250 powder patterns of minerals to the reference catalogs of these photographs.
At the request of the American Gem Society he delivered a paper entitled ‘Domestic Gem Stone Production” at the Society’s annual conclave in Philadelphia.

<<<Page: 50>>>

Associate Curator Henderson investigated the iron meteorites from both Camp Verde and Seligman, Ariz.; Dayton, Ohio; Keen Mountain, Va.; and Tambo Quemada, Pert.
Dr. Stuart H. Perry, associate in mineralogy, completed volume 8 of ‘‘Photomicrographs of Meteoric Iron,” an album of superb photomicrographs of meteoric structures.
Dr. John P. Marble, associate in mineralogy, continued his investigations on the absolute measurement of geologic time. As chairman of the Committee on the Measurement of Geologic Time of the National Research Council, he prepared the annual report of the committee, which includes a comprehensive annotated bibliography of articles referring to this subject. In May 1953 he was elected general secretary of the American Geophysical Union.
Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Dr. Ray S. Bassler, associate in paleontology, completed his chapter on the Bryozoa for the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology, the large reference work being compiled under the auspices of the Geological Society of America. This has engaged him ever since his retirement in 1948. He is now bringing to completion a study of Ordovician cystids which was started before his retirement.
Dr. J. Brookes Knight, associate in paleontology, published his study, ‘‘ Primitive Fossil Gastropods and their Bearing on Gastropod Classification.”” This paper brings together the accumulated results of many years of Dr. Knight’s researches. He is now engaged in preparation of the section devoted to Paleozoic gastropods for the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology, the illustrations for which have been prepared on a grant from the Geological Society of America.
Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., published his revisionary study of the genus Triplasia, describing 37 species, and in collaboration with Dr. Helen Tappan Loeblich, the important “Studies of Arctic Foraminifera,” which described 56 genera and 110 species. With these tasks out of the way, the Loeblichs are devoting themselves to the preliminary stages of preparing the section on smaller Foraminifera for the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology, in which connection they plan to visit Europe in the fall and winter of 1953-1954 to study type specimens and collections of material not available here.
Associate Curator David Nicol completed his revision of the pelecypod genus Echinochama and studied the taxonomic position of other genera. He described one new genus (Pettersia) of prionodont pelecypods. During the year Dr. Nicol took over work on Mesozoic as well as Tertiary pelecypods and has several new genera under study. The work on Pliocardia mentioned in the previous annual report was finished during the year.

<<<Page: 51>>>

Associate Curator Bowsher completed his study of actinocrinitid crinoids and presented the manuscript to the University of Kansas for publication.
Curator Cooper completed his study of early Middle Ordovician brachiopods of the United States in February, describing about 925 species distributed among 150 genera. He also finished (with others) his study of the Permian fossils collected near Antimonio, Sonora, México. He describes 28 genera and 51 species. A chapter describing 8 genera of gastropods, by J. Brookes Knight, is included. Dr. Cooper is now sorting his large collection of Permian brachiopods from West Texas into genera and species preparatory to describing them. He is also bringing to completion a manuscript on the Mississippian and Permian brachiopods of Oregon.
Curator Cooper, Associate Curator Bowsher, and Museum Aide W. T. Allen spent about a week in the vicinity of Pine Spring Camp in the Guadalupe Mountains of West Texas. The party then went on to southern New Mexico where they collected Devonian, Mississippian, and Pennsylvanian fossils in the Sacramento, San Andres, and Mimbres Mountains. From New Mexico the party went north to Oklahoma to collect Permian fossils. There, Cooper left the party but Allen and Bowsher moved on to Missouri to collect Mississippian fossils.
About the middle of September Associate Curator Loeblich accompanied Dr. D. H. Dunkle to Mexico where he sought samples of Jurassic and Cretaceous shales to be washed for Foraminifera. Dunkle’s interest was Mesozoic and Tertiary fish. The party collected from the extensive Cretaceous beds in Coahuila and Tamaulipas and then went south to Puebla, Oaxaca, and Chiapas. They gathered some fine Mesozoic mollusca and brachiopods and about 900 samples of shale before their return to Washington in mid-December.
Vertebrate paleontology.—The study of the Knight Lower Eocene mammalian faunas by Curator C. L. Gazin was completed about the beginning of the current year. Its publication in December placed on record the results of several seasons of field collecting, stratigraphic interpretation, and laboratory study of fossil materials representing the various faunal horizons of one of the more important and widely distributed Tertiary formations in the Rocky Mountain region.
During this year the curator submitted for publication a monographic study of the Tilodontia, a mammalian order comprising groups of extinct animals whose remains are known only from the Kocene and Paleocene rocks. sthonyx, the Lower Eocene and Upper Paleocene member of this peculiar phylum, possibly of creodontpantodont origin, was apparently of world-wide distribution, whereas Middle Eocene representatives are known only from North America,

<<<Page: 52>>>

with an aberrant branch recorded somewhat later in the early Tertiary of China. The study of these forms was carried on intermittently over the past six years and involved all the known material.
He began a review and revision of the Upper Eocene artiodactyls of North America, in particular the homacodont and so-called selenodont forms of the Uinta and Duchesne River stages of the EKocene. This interval of time witnessed the beginnings or early differentiation of several of the groups of even-toed ungulates, including the camels, hypertragulids, and oreodonts. The investigation was undertaken as a result of his recent undertaking to catalog a rather extensive collection of such materials made by the curator in 1938. While so employed he discovered that the taxonomy and our understanding of the relationships of several of the forms involved was somewhat chaotic.
Curator Gazin has also undertaken study of a newly discovered occurrence of Paleocene mammals in south-central Wyoming. Examination of a small collection secured by a party of geologists of the U. S. Geological Survey during the past summer has revealed an exceedingly interesting assemblage apparently of an open or nonforest type environment of Tiffanian age. Field work in this area was undertaken by the curator, assisted by Preparator Franklin L. Pearce, prior to the close of this year.
As a part of the investigation of Upper Eocene artiodactyls the curator studied collections in the American Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Museum, Princeton University, and Yale University. The collections at the American Museum and Princeton University were also utilized at these times to make comparisons with the Paleocene mammal remains from central Wyoming.
Reports of the curator’s researches on the Knight faunas, the Tillodontia, and the newly discovered Paleocene occurrence were presented at the annual meeting of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology held at Boston and Cambridge, Mass., in November. Also, Dr. Gazin agreed to serve on this Society’s committee on nomenclature and correlation of the North American Continental Cenozoic, as chairman of the Eocene subcommittee and member of the Paleocene subcommittee, in the preparation of a new correlation chart and glossary of faunal, stratigraphic, and geographic terms applicable to these ages, to be published by the Geological Society of America.
Associate Curator D. H. Dunkle continued work on two longrange studies, the fish fauna of the Green River formation, undertaken with Dr. Bobb Schaeffer of the American Museum of Natural History, and the late Mesozoic origins of teleostean orders of fishes. In the first, current work has centered on the genera Priscacara, Phareodus, and Notogoneus, the eighth, ninth, and tenth of the total
272468—53—4

<<<Page: 53>>>

of 15 genera to be investigated. Work on the second was furthered by the opportunity of collecting, under the Walcott fund, a small but important assemblage of Lower and Upper Cretaceous fishes from México during the first half of fiscal 1953. Further in this connection, the employment of acetic acid for etching is beginning to produce gratifying results in the preparation of the Jurassic fishes from Cuba, and the division has recently acquired, for serially sectioning three-dimensional specimens, the use. of a precision machine which promises to be of great help in these proposed detailed morphological studies.
During the fall of 1952 the associate curator accompanied Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., to Mexico where opportunity to investigate reported Mexican occurrences of Jurassic and Cretaceous fishes was enjoyed. In the course of the expedition, which traversed the Sierra Madre Oriental from the vicinity of Monterrey to beyond the Isthmus of Tehauntepec, vertebrates were collected from the Agua Nueva formation in Tamaulipas; Neocomian deposits near Tlaxiaco, Oaxaca; and a Tertiary occurrence near Guanajuato.
Manuscripts completed by the associate curator during the year include one concerning Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous fishes from the State of San Luis Potosi, México, and another, in collaboration with Carl Fries, of the U. S. Geological Survey, and Dr. Claude W. Hibbard, concerning an early Tertiary faunule at Guanajuato, México. Completion of a manuscript on new records of Permo-Carboniferous fishes in Brazil was advisedly withheld pending study of additional materials submitted to this institution by the University of Sado Paulo.
Research by outside investigators.—As in past years, Many investigators from this country and elsewhere were aided by the staff and used the Museum collections.
Prof. Hisashi Kuno, Tokyo University, during his tenure as research associate at Princeton University visited the Museum to examine rocks from some volcanic areas in the world in connection with his studies on the natural equilibrium relationships of the pyroxene minerals in lavas.
Dr. T. W. Amsden, Johns Hopkins University, recently published a study of pentameroid brachiopods based on Museum specimens. Dr. Franco Rasetti, of the same University, continued his studies of Cambrian fossils, making frequent visits to the Museum laboratories. William Sando, also from Johns Hopkins, visited the Museum on two occasions. Dr. Norman D. Newell, American Museum of Natural History, is monographing a large collection of Permian pelecypods from West Texas, many of which are from the National Museum. Dr. Harry B. Whittington, Harvard University, com

<<<Page: 54>>>

pleted another large segment of his monograph on silicified trilobites (mostly belonging to the Museum) from the Ordovician of Virginia, and also completed a manuscript on silicified Mississippian trilobites from Texas. Dr. Erwin C. Stumm published his report on the Traverse trilobites of Michigan, based in large part on National Museum specimens. Dr. Byron N. Cooper published his study of Ordovician trilobites of the Appalachian Valley prepared while he was at the Museum in 1946. Dr. John Hoskins, University of Cincinnati, worked on a large collection of fossil wood from Lower Mississippian rocks of Kentucky. J. B. McLean, Jr., Alexandria, Va., visited the Museum to study Foraminifera and confer with the staff. During the summer Donald Squires, Kansas University, and Roger Batten, Columbia University, studied Permian gastropod collections under the guidance of Research Associate Knight. Dr. Francis G. Stehli, graduate student at Columbia, spent several months at the Museum studying Permian brachiopods. Dr. John Sanders, National Research Council Fellow, spent most of the year studying Mississippian fossils from Tennessee. Other visitors were Dr. M. R. Sahni and Dr. M. V. R. Sastry, both from the Geological Survey of India, and Dr. T. Kobayashi, Tokyo University, Japan.
Also using the collections were Dr. C. W. Hibbard, University of Michigan, studying Cenozoic rodents from Arizona; David Kitts, Columbia University, who made extensive use of the collection of Hyracothervum material from the Lower Eocene of Wyoming for his doctoral thesis; Dr. G. Edward Lewis, Denver office of the U. S. Geological Survey, who brought materials from the Miocene of California to compare with Museum type specimens for his study of the Barstow fauna; Dr. A. S. Romer, Harvard University, who examined Permian and Pennsylvanian tetrapods as a part of his study of these forms; Dr. George Gaylord Simpson, American Museum of Natural History, who examined and borrowed for study material of the Hocene primate Phenacolemur; Loren Toohey, Princeton University, who studied the Museum collection of middle Tertiary and later Tertiary felids as a part of his doctoral thesis; H. H. Winters, paleontologist with the Florida State Geological Survey, who studied the Pliocene and Pleistocene mammalian remains from Florida; Dr. A. E. Wood, Amherst College, who carefully studied and identified the entire collection of paramyid rodents in connection with his forthcoming revision of this group. Particular mention may be made of two visitors from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm: Dr. Erik A. Stensié, who was principally interested in the Museum collection of placoderms, and Dr. Tor @rvig, who was concerned with Lower Devonian arthrodires and also made histological studies of bone material of various Paleozoic tetrapods and fish.

<<<Page: 55>>>

Engineering and Industries
Crafts and industries.—Curator William N. Watkins continued to assist Colonial Williamsburg, the Charleston Museum, and others in the study of secondary woods used in antique furniture as an aid to establishing the origin of furniture. He also assisted Drs. Clay G. Huff and Victor H. Dropkin in their research on the resonance and tonal qualities of woods used in marimbas and xylophones from earliest times to the present.
Edward C. Kendall, associate curator, continued his investigation of the Ludwig Rau plow models, expanding the project to include a descriptive catalog of the collection. Data already assembled were consulted by outside investigators. For his history of American plow types he is tracing their European antecedents and has consulted collections of agricultural implements in Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Delaware.
Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator, nearly completed her history of the sewing machine and began a study of the quilts, coverlets, blankets, and linens of early America. She made 94 short studies to answer requests from outside investigators.
Engineering.—S. H. Oliver, associate curator, who has completed the documentation leading to publications relating to the automobile and cycle collections, began a similar study of the railroad collections. His preliminary investigation of the first locomotives imported into the United States has produced interesting and possibly new information about the relics of the “Stourbridge Lion” and the cylinder of the ‘‘America,’’ preserved in the national collections.
Associate Curator K. M. Perry devoted much time to identifying and organizing a quantity of radio and electrical material received during the year. A tentative plan for the selection, authentication, and preservation of radio materials in the possession of members of the Institute of Radio Engineers was worked out with the Institute.
Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen continued research on the origins and development of photomechanical halftone processes, the results of which will be combined with a catalog of the halftone collections, and made a start on the study of photogravure processes. A preliminary study of the history of the halftone screen and a sketch of the history of letterpress halftone printing, were completed.
Progress was made by Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator, on his research project, ““A History of the Camera.”
Medicine and public health.—Research was initiated by Associate Curator George Griffenhagen on the history and evolution of various surgical and pharmaceutical instruments, to be combined with a catalog of the collections in the division. Studies on individual

<<<Page: 56>>>

subjects will be completed for separate publication prior to inclusion in the catalog. The first of these, ‘‘A History and Evolution of the Suppository Mold,” was published this year.
A second project, preparation of a catalogue of apothecary shop restorations on exhibition in the United States, will record the history of many of America’s most famous drug stores and will provide a pictorial history of the drug store in America.
During the year Curator Griffenhagen was appointed museum consultant to the American Pharmaceutical Association and was elected to the Board of Managers of the Friends of Historical Pharmacy.
Research by outside investigators.—Much of the research and study of the staff is undertaken to assist individuals who seek assistance with their particular problems, or use the collections to further their researches on various subjects. A total of 1,671 persons visited the offices of the department and an additional 1,974 made inquiry by phone or letter.
From the Historic American Merchant Marine Survey were presented 31 catalogs to individuals requesting them, while 108 blueprints of watercraft and 105 photographs were ordered from the Survey, bringing the total of blueprints distributed from this collection to 6,382. About 606 photographs from the Chaney collection of historical railroad material and 242 photographs of other subjects were purchased by publishers, writers, and collectors. In addition, 2,502 photographs were furnished to individuals and institutions as loans and gifts. The service furnished in connection with these 3,455 photographs consists of assisting inquirers in the use of the files, the selection of prints, the ordering of the work, the checking of the prints made, and the preparation of captions for the inquirer’s use. In some instances models and machines were posed for new photographs.
The patent section of the Applied Physics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University, was aided in setting up exhibits and demonstrations for the instruction of laboratory scientists in the history of invention and the value of patents. Ship models and a print were lent to the Truxton-Decatur Naval Museum for two exhibits.
Raymond Evans spent several days studying the extensive collection of the work of nineteenth-century American wood engravers in preparation for a book he is writing.
C. E. Littleton, secretary of R. Hoe & Co., gathered material from the library and files of the division of graphic arts for his biography of Richard March Hoe, inventor of the Hoe press.
Kenneth M. Wilson, curator of the Delaware State Museum, examined old looms and the types of yarns used, and fabrics woven on them.

<<<Page: 57>>>

The Jack Chertok Productions, Inc., requested information on the Samuel Slater spinning frame and its operation. From diagrams made by Miss Rogers to illustrate the spinning principle a replica was built and used on the television program ‘‘Cavalcade of America.’
Forest Lunger, curator of the Edison birthplace in Milan, Ohio, was assisted in research on types of fabrics and curtains of the period 1842-1847.
Chern Nilviset, chief of Section of Wood Utilization, Royal Forest Department, Bangkok, Thailand, studied the forestry literature and wood collections in the Museum, comparing Thai woods with those of the United States and other countries, and obtaining assistance in wood identification. The Museum received later a set of 20 important woods of Thailand.
Among investigators using the facilities of the division of medicine and public health were Jeannette K. Whitmer, curator of the Johnson and Johnson Museum, who sought information for the establishment of a firm museum and undertook to prepare facsimiles of early Johnson and Johnson products in the collections; Edith Rothbauer, Johns Hopkins Science Review, who prepared television copy for the May 27 Johns Hopkins Science Television Review ‘‘The Story of a Needle”’; Morris Leikind, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Medical Museum, who consulted the division with regard to various pharmaceutical and medical historical topics.
Associate Curator Griffenhagen assisted librarians at the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Medical Library to prepare monthly rotating exhibits at the Library and furnished specimens from the collection for these exhibits, which included one on Wiliam Withering and digitalis and another on Claude Bernard and curare.
History
Associate Curator Margaret W. Brown continued her revision of the “Catalog of Washington Relics in the U. S. National Museum.” She completed an article on the George Washington memorial medal to be submitted for publication during the coming year. Her article “‘Thomas Jefferson and the Declaration of Independence Desk in the U. S. National Museum” was accepted for publication in the Appendix of the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1953.
In the field of marine archeology, Mendel L. Peterson, curator of naval history, did extensive research in the collections and archives of Spain, France, Denmark, and :Great Britain. During May he participated in an expedition investigating the wreck site of a Spanish ship which sank in 1733. Documents relating to this ship, found last year in the Casa Lonja, Seville, Spain, and evidence found on

<<<Page: 58>>>

the wreck site prove it to have been one of a fleet, commanded by Admiral de Torres, struck by a hurricane on July 15, 1733. Numerous objects recovered from the wreck site are being preserved for the collections of the division of naval history. All this work is being supported through a grant of funds from E. A. Link, of the Link Aviation Corporation, who has equipped a fine motor vessel for salvage work and personally participates in all the field and research activities. Another expedition to the site is planned for July 1953.
S. M. Mosher, curator of numismatics, intensified his research in the field of American designers, die-sinkers, engravers, and artists associated with United States coins, medals, and tokens. This project is producing a wealth of material that will later appear in the form of a register.
Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., curator of philately, continued preparation of the catalog of the national philatelic collection and worked on his history of the Liberian postal service. Since a group of postal stationery specialists have undertaken compilation of a world-wide postal stationery catalog, the proposed catalog of the Michel collection has been abandoned as an unwarranted duplication.
The division of philately was the recipient of a medal presented in behalf of the Federal Republic of Germany through Dr. Hans Schuberth, Federal Minister for Posts and Telecommunications, and a gold medal in behalf of the American Air Mail Society through Rear Admiral Jesse M. Johnson, USN (Ret.), president of that group.

<<<Page: 59>>>

Publications
The National Museum issued, in addition to an Annual Report, 17 publications based on research in the national collections. Of these, 3 were in the bulletin series, 13 were papers in the Proceedings, and 1 was a Contribution from the National Herbarium. ‘Their titles appear below. At the close of the year 3 bulletins, 1 Contribution from the National Herbarium, and 1 Proceedings paper.were in press.
Publications by staff members, including research associates and collaborators, totaled 157. These books, articles, and reviews, listed on pages 50 to 55, were distributed as follows:
Subject Publications Subject Publications ANCHTODOLOCY: me asec pacey cia: 2 2i WEVISCORY: cera peo acme th clam a sms IBOtAn Yi acc hota oe ae hone ZU VLOOOLY wins stisg eo. ote eee 60 Engineering and Industries .. . 8 —— Geology see Gare eae 33 Total Vo 2 Ree eee 156
On January 5, 1953, Ernest E. Biebighauser was appointed assistant editor of the National Museum.
Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1952 through June 1953 REPORTS
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 1952. 8vo,iv + 103 pp. January 15, 1953.
Bulletin 200. The generic names of the beetle family Staphylinidae, by Richard E. Blackwelder. S8vo, iv + 488 pp. July 21, 1952.
Bulletin 203. Life histories of North American wood warblers: Order Passeriformes, by Arthur Cleveland Bent. S8vo, xi + 734 pp., 83 pls. June 15, 1953.
Bulletin 204. Catalog of the cycle collection of the division of engineering, United States National Museum, by Smith Hempstone Oliver. 8vo, vi + 40 pp., 1 fig., 24 pls. May 26, 1953.

<<<Page: 60>>>

From Vouums 30, Contrisvutions From THE UNITED States Nationa HErRBARIUM
Part 5. Studies of Pacific Island plants, XV. The genus Elaeocarpus in the New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga, by A. C. Smith, 8vo, pp. i-v + 5238-575. May 8, 1953.
From VouuME 102 oF THE PROCEEDINGS
No. 3306. The sipunculid worms of California and Baja California, by Walter Kenrick Fisher. Pp. 371-450, pls. 18-39. July 8, 1952.
From VouuME 103 oF THE PROCEEDINGS
No. 3311. Two new naucorid bugs of the genus Ambrysus, by Ira La Rivers. Pp. 1-7, fig. 1. Feb. 12, 1953.
No. 3312. Two new scale-mite parasites of lizards, by R. F. Lawrence. Pp. 9-18, figs. 2-7. March 10, 19538.
No. 3313. Notes on the biology and immature stages of a cricket parasite of the genus Rhopalosoma, by Ashley B. Gurney. Pp. 19-34, figs. 8,9, pl. 1. March 10, 1953.
No. 3314. Photuris bethaniensis, a new lampyrid firefly, by Frank A. McDermott. Pp. 35-37. February 26, 1953.
No. 3315. Distribution, general bionomics, and recognition characters of two cockroaches recently established in the United States, by Ashley B. Gurney. Pp. 39-56, fig. 10, pl. 2. March 10, 1953.
No. 3316. Biting midges of the heleid genus Stilobezzia in North America, by Willis W. Wirth. Pp. 57-85, figs. 11,12. May 15, 1953.
No. 3317. Beetles of the oedemerid genus Vasaces:.Champion, by Ross H. Arnett, Jr. Pp.*87-94, fig. 13. April 30, 1953.
No. 3318. Scarabaeid beetles of the genus Bradycinetulus and closely related genera in the United States, by O. L. Cartwright. Pp. 95-120, figs. 14-16, pls. 3,4. June 5, 19538.
No. 3319. The chrysomelid beetles of the genus Sirabala Chevrolat, by Doris Holmes Blake. Pp. 121-134, fig. 17. June 5, 1953.
No. 3320. American biting midges of the heleid genus Monohelea, by Willis W. Wirth. Pp. 185-154, figs. 18-19. June 17, 1953.
No. 3321. <A review of the beetle family Cephaloidae, by Ross H. Arnett, Jr. Pp. 155-161, fig. 20, pl. 5. May 15, 1953.
No. 3322. The fresh-water triclads (Turbellaria) of Alaska, by Roman Kenk. Pp. 163-186, figs. 21-25, pls. 6-8. June 5, 1953.

<<<Page: 61>>>

Publications by Members of the Staff of the United States National Museum
July 1952 through June 1953
Abbott, R. Tucker. Two new opisthobranch mollusks from the Gulf of Mexico belonging to the genera Pleurobranchaea and Polycera. Florida State Univ. Studies, No. 7, pp. 1-7, 2 pls., 1952.
New Federal regulations on im-
porting mollusks. Nautilus, vol. 66,
No. 3, p. 104, 1953.
Opportunities in medical malacology. Ann. Rep. Amer. Malacol. Union, 1952, pp. 14-15, 1953.
Allard, H. A., and Leonard, E. C. The vegetation and floristics of Bull Run Mountain, Virginia. Castanea, vol. 17, No. 4, pp. 145-153, 1952.
Arny, Samuel A. Taxonomic status of the bank swallow of North America. Condor, vol. 54, pp. 356-357, November 1952.
Axelrod, Herbert R., and Schultz, L. P. Methods of reproduction of fishes. Trop. Fish Hobbyist, vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 22-26, 31, figs. 1-4, 1952.
Bailey, I. W., and Smith, A.C. A new Fijian species of Calyptrosepalum. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 34, No. 1, pp. 52-66, pls. 1-2, 1953.
Bartsch, Paul. More notes on pitcher plants with flat leaves. Wild Flower, vol. 28, No. 2, p. 42, 1952.
The whip-poor-will has a good memory. Raven, vol. 23, Nos. 7, 8, p. 67, 1952.
Bassler, R. S. Taxonomic notes on genera of fossil and Recent Bryozoa. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, pp. 381-385, figs. 1-27, 1952.
Bent, Arthur Cleveland. Life histories of North American wood warblers. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 203, 734 pp., 83 pls., 1953.
Blackwelder, Richard E. The generic names of the beetle family Staphylinidae with an essay on genotypy. vee Nat. Mus. Bull. 200, 483 pp.,
952.
Article 19 and the subject of errors and emendations. Bull. Zool. Nomenclature, vol. 10, pp. 129-134, 1953.
Blackwelder, Richard E., Knight, J. B., and Sabrosky, C. W. Resubmission of petition regarding the plenary powers. Bull. Zool. Nomenclature, vol. 8, pts. 1-3, pp. 738-75, 1953.
, Knight, J. B., and Smith, H. M. Categories of availability and validity of zoological names. Bull. Zool. Nomenclature, vol. 8, pts. 1-3, pp. 27-28, 1953.
Bowsher, A. L. A new Devonian crinoid from Western Maryland. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 121, No. 9, pp. 1-8, 1953.
Brown, Margaret W. The dresses of the First Ladies of the White House. Smithsonian Inst. Spec. Publ. 4060, 149 pp., illus., August 1952.
Burns, Franklin R., Jr. Stamp collecting, an introduction to a fascinating hobby, 60 pp., 1953.
The stamps of Elizabeth Regina,
and the Royal Family, 60 pp., 1953.
United States commemorative
notes.
. Sun corner cards. Covers, vol.
13, No. 1, pp. 23-24, January 1953.
. Liberian cancellations. Covers, vol. 12, No. 10, pp. 26-27, October 1952.
Cartwright, O. L. Scarabaeid beetles of the genus Bradycinetulus and closely related genera in the United States. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. 103, pp. 95-120, pls. 3-4, figs. 14-16, 1953.
Clark, Austin H. The first record of a butterfly migration in America. The Lepidopterists’ News, vol. 6, Nos. 1-8, p. 43, August 1952.
Notes on the history and distri-
bution of the reptiles. Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 42, No. 8, pp.
262-264, 1952.
. The fauna of America. Ann.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1951, pp.
287-302, 8 pls., 1952.
Leland Ossian Howard (1857-— 1950). Cosmos Club Bull., vol. 5,
~ No. 12, pp. 2-4, October,1952.

<<<Page: 62>>>

Clark, Austin H. Thomas Jefferson and science, in Francis Coleman Rosenberger, Jefferson Reader, pp. 140-160, 1953.
——. Henry Stephens Washington (1867-1934). Cosmos Club Bull., vol. 6, No. 5, pp. 2-4, March 1953.
Cochran, Doris M. Three new Brazilian frogs. Herpetol., vol. 8, pt. 4, pp. 111-115, 10 figs., January 30, 1953.
Cooper, G. Arthur. Brachiopoda. In Cambrian stratigraphy and paleontology near Caborca, northwestern Sonora. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 119, No. 1, pp. 36-48, pls. 11-13, 1952.
. New and unusual species of
brachiopods from the Arbuckle group
of Oklahoma. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 117, No. 14, pp. 1-385, 4
pls., 1952.
. Sponges, Brachiopoda, Pelecy-
poda, and Scaphopoda. Jn Permian
fauna at El Antimonio, Sonora, Mexico. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.
119, No. 2, pp. 21-79, 22 pls., 1953.
Stratigraphy and faunal zones.
In Permian fauna at El Antimonio,
Sonora, Mexico. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 119, No. 2, pp. 1-13, 1953.
and Arellano, A. R. V. Introduction and Stratigraphy. Jn Cambrian stratigraphy and paleontology near Caborea, northwestern Sonora. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 119, No. 1, pp. 1-23, pls. 1-5, 1952.
Deignan, H. G. The nomenclature of certain bulbuls (Pycnonotus): A reconsideration. Auk, vol. 69, pp. 463-465, October 1952.
Dunkle, David H. Vertebrate paleontology. Jn Britannica Book of the Year, p. 547, 1952.
and Wilson, John A. Remains of Devonian fishes from Texas. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 42, No. 7, pp. 213-215, 1952.
CP Clifford, Jr. (See under Holland,
Ewers, John C. Blackfeet Indians. In Encyclopedia Americana, 1953 ed., vol. 4, pp. 41-42, 1953.
. The medicine rock of the Marias: A Blackfoot shrine beside the Whoopup Trail. Montana Mag. Hist., vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 51-55, July 1952.
—. Reliving Montana’s colorful past in a magnificent new museum. Montana Mag. Hist., vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 35-54, 11 pls., January 1953.
(Editor) Of the Crees or Kniste-
neau, by Denig, Edwin T. Missouri
Hist. Soc. Bull., vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 37—
69, 6 pls., 1952.
(Editor) Of the Crow Nation, by
Denig, Edwin T. Bur. Amer. Ethno.
51 Bull. 151, Anthrop. Pap. 33, 74 pp., 6 pls., 1 map, 1953.
Fisher, ‘Walter Kenrick. The sipunculid worms of California and Baja California. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 102, pp. 371-450, pls. 18-39, 1952.
Foshag, W. F. Mexican opal. Gems and Gemology, vol. 7, No. 9, pp. 278283, spring 1953.
——.’A visit to Idar-Oberstein. Guilds, Amer. Gem Soc., vol. 8, No. 5, p. i May 1953.
and Switzer, George. The dia-
mond industry in 1951. Jewelers’
Circular-Keystone, vol. 122, 13 pp.,
1952.
Gem stones. Preprint from U. 8. Bur. Mines Minerals Yearbook 1951, 9 pp., 1952.
Friedmann, Herbert. Review of ‘‘Mexican Birds. First Impressions.” Auk, vol. 69, pp. 330-331, July 1953.
The struggle for existence. Re-
views of Caullery’s ‘‘Parasitism and
Symbiosis” and Rothschild’s and
Clay’s “Fleas, Flukes, and Cuckoos.”’
Sci. Monthly, vol. 75, No. 4, pp. 252—
25a. 19522
Review of Dobson’s “‘Birds of the
Channel Islands.” Atlantic Nat.,
vol. 8, pp. 103-104, October 1952.
(See also under Wetmore, Alexander.)
Gazin, C. Lewis. The Lower Eocene Knight formation of western Wyoming and its mammalian faunas. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 117, No. 18, pp. 1-82, figs. 1-6, pls. 1-11, 1952.
The Tillodontia: An early Terti-
ary order of mammals. Smithsonian
Mise. Coll., vol. 121, No. 10, pp.
1-110, figs. 1-38, pls. 1-16, 1953.
. Activities of the Division of Vertebrate Paleontology of the U. S. National Museum. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 36, pp 12-13, 1952; No. 37, pp. 16-17, 1953; No. 38, pp. 5-6, 1953.
Griffenhagen, George B. Botica, the California formulary of 1838. Pacific Drug Rev., vol. 65, No. 3, pp. 24-25, 31, figs. 1-2, March 1953.
Early American pharmacies.
Journ. Amer. Pharm. Assoc. (Prac-
tical ed.), vol. 14, pp. 221, 322, figs.
1-2, April and May, 1953.
A history and evolution of the suppository mold. Amer. Journ. Pharm., vol. 125, pp. 135-142, figs. 1-3, April 1953.
Handley, Charles O., Jr. Birds the sportsman should know. West Virginia Conserv., vol. 15, No. 8, pp. 19-20, 44, 1951.

<<<Page: 63>>>

Handley, Charles O., Jr. foundland hermit thrush in Virginia. Raven, vol. 23, p. 10, 1952.
new hare (Lepus arcticus)
from northern Canada. Proc. Biol.
Soc. Washington, vol. 65, pp. 199-200,
1952.
Marine mammals in Michigan Pleistocene beaches. Journ. Mamm., vol. 34, No. 2, pp. 252-2538, 1953. Abnormal coloration in the pine mouse (Pitymys pinetorum). Journ. Mamm., vol. 34, No. 2, pp. 262-263, 1953.
A new South Dakota locality for
the kangaroo rat, Dipodomys. Journ.
Mamm., vol. 34, No. 2, p. 264, 1953.
Three new lemmings (Dicrostonyx) from Arctic America. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 43, No. 6, pp. 197-200, 1953.
Holland, C. G., Evans, Clifford, Jr., and Meggers, B. J. The east mound. Quart. Bull. Arch. Soc. Virginia, vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 2-10, 1953.
Holland, George P., and Jellison, William L. On Mioctenopsylla Rothschild, a genus of Siphonaptera (Ceratophyllidae), with description of a new species. Can. Ent., vol. 84, pp. 374-379, illus., 1952.
Jellison, William L. (See under Holland, George P.)
Johnson, David H. A new name for the Jamaican bat Molossus fuliginosus Gray. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 65, pp. 197-198, 1952.
Kainen, Jacob. The development of the halftone screen. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1951, pp. 409-425,
12 pls., 1952.
The U. 8. National Museum’s Division of Graphic Arts. Journ. Amer. Inst. Graphic Arts, vol. 4,
No. 5, pp. 45-58, illus., 1952.
Kanazawa, Robert H. A new name for the Peruvian parrotfish, Scarus dubtus Hildebrand, preoccupied by S. dubius Bennett, Copeia, vol. 3, p. 203, 1952.
More new species and new
records of fishes from Bermuda.
Fieldiana-Zool., vol. 34, No. 7, pp.
71-100, figs. 9-18, 1952.
Variations in the wolf eel, Anarrhichthys ocellatus Ayres, a fish inhabiting the eastern North Pacific Ocean. California Fish and Game, vol. 38, No. 4, pp. 567-574, 3 figs., 1952.
Killip, E. P., and Blake, S. F. Natural history of Plummers Island, Maryland: X. Flowering plants and ferns— Supplement 1. Proc. Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 66, pp. 31-388, 1953.
The New-| Knight, J. B. Primitive fossil gastro-
pods and their bearing on gastropod
classification. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 117, No. 138, iii + 56 pp.,
2 pls., 10 figs., "1952.
(See also under Blackwelder,
Richard E.)
Lachner, Ernest A. Studies of the biology of the cyprinid fishes of the chub genus Nocomis of Northeastern United States. Amer. Midl. Nat., vol. 48, No. 2, pp. 483-466, 12 figs., 1952.
Leonard, Emery C. Standleyacanthus, a new genus of Acanthaceae from Costa Rica. Ceiba, vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 142-146, 1 fig., 1952.
. (See also under Allard, H. A.)
Loeblich, A. R., Jr. The Recent foraminiferal genera from the tropical Pacific. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 42, pp. 189-1938, 1952.
; Types’ of genera described in
Part III of the “Siboga Foramini-
fera’’—a discussion. Micropaleont.,
vol. 7, pp. 39-42, 1958.
and Tappan, Hi. Porttexiularia, a
new Recent foraminiferal genus.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol.
42, pp. 264-268, 1952.
Morphology of the test in the
foraminiferal genus Tristiz Mac-
fadyen. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 42, pp. 356-361, 1952.
. The foraminiferal genus Triplasia Reuss, 1854. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 117, No. 15, pp. 1-61, pis. 1-8, 1952.
Some Recent Arctic Foramini-
fera. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol.
121, No. 7, pp. 1-150, pls. 1-24, 1953.
Note on the genus Haplophrag-
mium Reuss, 1860. Micropaleont.,
vol. 7, pp. 42-44, 1953.
Olssonina Bermudez 1949, for Cribroteztularia Loeblich and Tappan. Micropaleont., vol. 7, pp. 44-45, 1953.
Marble, John Putnam. Report on the Committee on the Measurement of Geologic Time, 1950-1951. National Research Council, 1952.
Morrison, Joseph P. E. The Berlese method of collecting small insects and other animals from leafmold, soil, moss, or other similar materials. Atoll Res. Bull. No. 17, p. 73, 1953.
Collecting mollusks on and
around atolls. Atoll Res. Bull. No.
17, pp. 74-77, 1953.
Morton, Cc. V. The generic name Anetium. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 43, No. 2, p. 71, 1953.
PRridonkerd In Gleason, The
new Britton and Brown illustrated flora of the northeastern United

<<<Page: 64>>>

States and adjacent Canada, vol. 1, pp. 1-56, 1952.
Newman, Marshall T. Anthropometry of the Umotina, Nambicuara, and Iranxe, with comparative data from other northern Mato Grosso tribes. Inst. Soc. Anthrop. Publ. 15, Append. 3, pp. 128-135, 1953.
Nicol, David. Designation of the type species of Pseudochama (additional note). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol, 42, No. 8, p. 248, 1952.
A’ new elycimerid from the
western Atlantic. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 42, No. 8, pp. 266-267,
1952.
Revision of the genus Echino-
chama. Journ. Paleont., vol. 46, No.
5, pp. 803-817, 15 figs., 2 pls., 1952.
A rare Tertiary elycimerid from
South Carolina and Florida. Journ.
Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 42, No.
11, pp. 262-263, 1952.
Systematic position of the pele-
cypod Huloza. Journ. Paleont., vol.
27, No. 1, pp. 56-61, 1953.
new prionodont pelecypod
genus. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 103-105, 1953.
study of the polymorphic species Glycimeris americana. Journ. Paleont., vol. 27, No. 3, pp. 451-455, 1953.
Oliver, Smith Hempstone. Some Packard facts. Antique Automobile, vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 33-38, December 1952.
The rotary engine. Bulb Horn,
vol. 13, No. 4, p. 4, October 1952.
Catalog of the cycle collection
of the Division of Engineering, United States National Museum. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 204, 40 pp., 1 fig., 25 pls., 1953.
Rehder, Harald A. The publication dates of Kobelt’s ‘‘Illustriertes Conchylienbuch.” Nautilus, vol. 66, No. 2, pp. 59-60, 1952.
The position of ‘‘Xesta’’ cincta
(Lea). Nautilus, vol. 66, No. 3, pp.
95-96, 1953.
and Forcart, L. On the generic names ‘“‘Plotia’”? Roeding, 1798, and “Pyramidella’”’? Lamarck, 1799, and the proposed validation under plenary powers of the generic name ‘“‘Pyramidella”’ Lamarck, 1799 (class Gastropoda, subclass Prosobranchia). Bull. Zool. Nomenclature, vol. 6, pt. 11, pp. 346-347, 1952.
Schultz, Leonard P. Directions for collecting, preserving and shipping fishes. Jn Atoll Res. Bull. No. 17, pp. 90-95, 1953.
Constantine Samuel Rafinesque
(1783-1840). Trop. Fish Hobbyist,
vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 19-20, 30, figs., 1953.
Schultz, Leonard P. The skeleton. Trop. Fish Hobbyist, vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 21-25, figs., 1953.
Know your angelfishes! Trop.
Fish Hobbyist, vol. 1, No. 5, pp. 5-7,
20, figs. 1-3, 1953.
. The digestive system.
Fish Hobbyist, vol.
22-25, 30, 1953.
The Washington mudminnow as
an aquarium fish. Trop. Fish Hobbyist,
vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 16-17, fig., 1952.
A death struggle with a giant
eel. In “Lets Read, ” pp. 44-46, 1
fig., 1953.
and Axelrod, H.R. The anatomy
of fishes and their functions. Trop.
Fish Hobbyist, vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 26-
29, figs., 1953.
(See also under Axelrod, H. R.)
. (See also under Strasburg, Donald W.)
Setzer, Henry W. Pigmy shrew, Microsorez, in Montana. Journ. Mamm., vol. 33, No. 3, p. 398, 1952.
A new name for Dipodomys ordi
Trop. 1, No. 5, pp.
fuscus Setzer. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 42, No. 12, p. 391, 1952.
Setzler, Frank M. Seeking the secret of the giants. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 102, No. 3, pp. 390-404, 1952.
Smith, A. C. Studies of Pacific Island plants, XIII. Notes on Fijian Euphorbiaceae. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 33, pp. 367-402, 1952.
. Dr. Francis W. Pennell’s botan-
ical work in South America. Bar-
tonia, vol. 26, pp. 7-9, 1952.
A new species of Vaccinium from
Honduras. Ceiba, vol. 3, pp. 185-
187, 1958.
Studies of Pacific Island plants,
XIV. Notes on the Fijian species of
Cyrtandra. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol.
34, pp. 37-51, 1953.
Studies of Pacific Island plants, XV. The genus Elaeocarpus in the New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb. , vol. 30, pt. 5, pp. 524-573, 1953.
—-. Studies of Pacific Island plants, XVI. Notes on Fijian Rubiaceae. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 34, pp. 97-— 124, 1953.
(See also under Bailey, I. W.)
Smith, Lyman B. Bromelidceas novas ou interessantes do Brazil—V. Arq. Bot. Estado 8. Paulo, new ser., vol. 2, pt. 6, pp. 195-198, pls. 62-63, 1952.
——. Variacio em Vriesia friburgensis Mez. Anais Bot. Herb. ‘‘Barbosa Rodrigues,” vol. 4, No. 4, pp. 67-68, 1952.

<<<Page: 65>>>

Smith, Lyman B. A new Guzmania from Colombia. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 42, pp. 282-283, fig. 1, 1952.
Bromeliad hunting in Argentina.
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 2, pp. 54-56,
2 figs., 1952.
Bromelidceas notaéveis do Her-
bério do Museu Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro. Bol. Rio de Janeiro Mus.
Nac., new ser., Bot. No. 15, pp. 1-7, 1
fig., 1952.
. A new ornamental bromeliad,
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 2, pp. 63-64.
1952.
Borrichia frutescens from Chesapeake Bay. MRhodora, vol. 55, pp. 58-59, 1953.
Some new combinations in Gua-
temalan Bromeliaceae. Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, pp. 68-69,
1953.
and Schubert, Bernice G. Una
nueva Begonia Argentina. Lilloa,
vol. 23, pp. 143-146, 1 fig., 1950.
Begoniaceae. In Steyermark, Contributions to the flora of Venezuela. Fieldiana: Botany, vol. 28, pp. 416—420, figs. 88-90, 1952.
Sohns, Ernest R. Floral morphology of Ixophorus unisetus (Presl) Schlecht. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, pp. 179-182, figs. 1-13, 1953.
Stewart, T. Dale. Hrdliéka’s practical anthropometry, 4th ed., rev., x-+241 pp., 1952.
Report on the human skeletal
material from the Herriot site, West
Virginia. West Virginia Hist., vol.
13, No. 4, pp. 246-248, 1952.
A bibliography of physical an-
thropology in Latin America: 1937-—
1948, 59 pp., 1952.
The fluorine content of associated human and extinct animal bones from the Conkling Cavern, New Mexico. Science, vol. 116, No. 3017, pp. 457-458, 1952.
——. Physical anthropology in Latin America: A bibliographical survey. Rev. Interamer. Bibliogr., vol. 2, No. 1-2, pp. 15-19, 1952.
——. Middle and South America: Physical anthropology. In MHandbook of Latin American Studies, No. 15, pp. 45-49 (1949). Univ. Florida Press, 1952.
Wishful thinking in the recon-
struction of skulls. Amer. Journ.
Phys. Anthrop., new ser., vol. 10, No.
4, pp. 520-521, 1952.
Race. In “The race concept:
ute of an inquiry.”” UNESCO,
1952.
Stewart, T. Dale and Spoehr, Alexander. Evidence on the paleopathology of yaws. Bull. Hist. Med., vol. 26, No. 6, pp. 538-553, 1952.
(See also under Tobin, William J.)
Strasburg, Donald W., and Schultz, L. P. The blenniid fish genera Cirripectus and Ezallias with descriptions of two new species from the tropical Pacific. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 43, No. 4, pp. 128-135, figs. 1-2, 1953.
Swallen, Jason R. Gramineae. In Cowan, Plant explorations of G. Wilson-Browne, S. J., in British Guiana. 1. Kanuku Mountains. Brittonia, vol. 7, No. 5, p. 891, 1952.
Switzer, George. Guadarramite discredited. Amer. Min., vol. 37, p. 1061, 1952.
(See also under Foshag, W. F.)
Tobin, William J., and Stewart, T. Dale. Gross osteopathology. Amer. Acad. Orthop. Surg., Instruct. Course Lect., vol. 9, pp. 401-411, 1952.
Walker, Egbert H. A botanical mission to Okinawa and the southern Ryukyus. Asa Gray Bull., new ser., vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 225-244, figs. 1-9, 1952.
A contribution toward a bibli-
ography of Thai botany. Nat. Hist.
Bull. Siam Soce., vol. 15, pt. 1, pp. 27—
88, 1952.
(Editor) Flora of Okinawa.
(Okinawa shokubutsu-shi.) An enu-
meration of the plants of Okinawa and
Sakishima Archipelagos in the Ryu-
kyu Islands, by Sonohara, Sakuya;
Tawada, Shinjun; and Amano, Tet-
suo. U. 8. Civil Administration of
the Ryukyu Islands, 231 pp., 1 pl.,
Watkins, C. Malcolm. Artificial lighting in America: 1830-1860. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1951, pp. 385-407, pls. 1-8, 1952.
An <Amelung discovery. An-
tiques, vol. 62, No. 6, pp. 488-489,
illus., 1952.
Some new Geneva and Greensboro glass. Antiques, vol. 63, No. 2, pp. 136-137, illus., 1953.
Wedel, Waldo R. Structural investigations in 1953. Jn Drucker, La Venta, Tabasco; a study of Olmec ceramics and art, Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 153, pp. 34-79, 1953.
Wetmore, Alexander. A record for the black-capped petrel, Pterodroma hasttata, in Martinique. Auk, vol. 69, p. 460, October 1952.
The birds of the Islands of
Taboga, Taboguilla, and Urava, Pan-
amd. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.
121, No. 2, pp. 1-32, 1952.

<<<Page: 66>>>

Wetmore, Alexander. A record for Neo-] ezuela and Colombia. Proc. Biol. drepanis hypoxantha of Madagascar. Soe. Washington, vol. 66, pp. 13-14, Auk, vol. 70, p. 91, January 1953. March 30, 19538.
—, "Friedmann, Herbert, et al. Notes on the rufous goatsuckers Twenty-seventh supplement to the of Venezuela. Proc. Biol. Soc. WashAmerican Ornithologists’ Union} ington, vol. 66, pp. 15-20, March 30, Check-list of North American birds. 1953.
Auk, vol. 69, pp. 308-312, July 1952.| Wilson, Mildred Stratton, and Moore, and Phelps, W. H., Jr. A new| Walter G. New records of Diapto-
form of hummingbird from the! mus sanguineus and allied species Perija mountains of Venezuela and
Colombia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washingfrom Louisiana, with the description tonal 65 pp. 135-136 ; August 5 of a new species (Crustacea: Cope1952. { ; "| poda). Journ. Washington Acad.
A race of forest-inhabiting finch| Sci., vol. 43, pp. 121-127, figs. 1-25, from the Perija mountains of Ven-! 1953.

<<<Page: 67>>>

Donors to the National Collections
(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance with law)
Asgotr Funp, W. L., Smithsonian Institution: 2,174 bird skins, 225 bird skeletons, 3 mammals, 12 mollusks, 1 insect, from Colombia, collected by M. A. Carriker, Jr. (192994) ; 349 bird skins, 32 bird skeletons, 1 bird’s nest, 2 bats, from Northern Rhodesia, collected by Maj. Edward L. Haydock (195681, 197951); 156 mammals, 243 ectoparasites, from Panamd4 and the Canal Zone, collected by Dr. Henry W. Setzer (195712); 18 birds (196209).
AcaD&MICcO DE LA REAL DE CIENCIAS, Madrid, Spain: (Through Prof. J. Balté Elias) 13 miscellaneous minerals from Spain and other localities (196539, exchange).
AcapEMy oF NatuRAL ScIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. Ruth Patrick and George W. McCammon) 169 fishes from Savannah River (194845); (through Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry) 3 fresh-water mollusk paratypes from Colombia (197081, exchange); (through J. A. G. Rehn) 5 Pipes Loppers, including paratypes, from
eri (195072); (through Dr. Selwyn 8. Roback) approximately 8 larvae, with cases, of midges from United States (198490).
AczEL, Dr. Martin, Tucum4n, Argentina: 22 flies from Argentina, including 5 paratypes (197636).
AGRELL, Dr. 8. O. (See Cambridge, University of.)
AGRICULTURE, U. S. DEPARTMENT or, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, Washington, D. C.: 8 land mollusks (194950) ; land snail from Pert (195037); 60 land mollusks from Costa Rica, Ecuador, Hawaiian Islands, Guatemala, Germany, Portuguese East Africa, México, Panamd, Indiana, Japan, St. Thomas (Virgin Islands), Trinidad, and New York; 3 marine invertebrates from Costa Rica; 6 crustaceans (195314, 196016, 196607, 196913, 197366, 197696, 198258, 198471); 11 slugs, from St. Thomas, Honduras, and New York; 1 crab (195560); 11 land mollusks, 1 crab, from Virgin Islands, United States, Tahiti, French Oceania (195744); 22 land and fresh-water mollusks, 3 vials tad-
poles, 5 marine invertebrates, from Thailand (196261); 141 plants collected by George V. Vogt in Burma (198403); (through W. B. Cartwright) 2,200 Hessian flies (196495); (through Dr. R. A. St. George) 27 marine invertebrates from Bowie, Md. (196692); (through Dr. Edson J. Hambleton) 6 land snails from Leén, Nicaragua (197357) ; (through Carl Muesebeck) 57,107 miscellaneous insects from all over the world (198487). Bureau of Plant Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering: 30 grasses from Argentina, 333 plants from Brazil, collected by Allan Beetle (195105, 195631, 197192); 150 Japanese mosses and hepatics (195583); 630 plants collected in Brazil by B. Rambo (196553); 5 plants collected in South and Central America (196789); 1 cultivated plant (196797); approximately 45,000 plants from Colombia and Ecuador (197021); 9 mosses from Argentina and Brazil (197882); 710 plants collected in South Africa and Turkey by Dr. Robert K. Godfrey (198272, 1985380); (through Dr. W. A. Archer) 151 ferns from South America (197022); (through Dr. A. H. Moseman) scale model of modern cotton ginning mill (198405). Forest Service: 4 specimens of trees (197620); (through Lowell J. Farmer) 38 moths from near Malta, Idaho (198547). Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations: 2 land mollusks from Ometepe Island, Nicaragua (196439). Soil Conservation Service: 1 plant from Florida (196424).
A1tKEN, Dr. T. H. G., New York, N. Y.: 1389 immature mosquitoes from Sardinia (195162).
AKERS, ViviAN, Norway, Maine: Man’s roach made of moose hair, presumably from Abnaki Indians of lower Androscoggin River, Maine (198266).
ALABAMA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE, Auburn, Ala.: 3 plants from Alabama (195061, 195959).
ALASKA TERRITORIAL DEPARTMENT or HeA.trs, Juneau, Alaska: (Through Dr. Ralph B. Williams) 12 parasitic copepods collected from mouth of western charr or Dolly Varden trout in Salmon Creek, north of Juneau (195573).

<<<Page: 68>>>

ALBANESE, JOHN S., Newark, N. J.: 4 minerals from various localities, fossil wood from Kenya (198034, exchange).
Autcata, Dr. J. E. (See Hawaii, University of.)
ALLAN, Outve, Stewart Island, New Zealand: Approximately 2,000 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks, 10 crustacea, 1 brachiopod, from New Zealand (195929).
Auuarp, H. A., Arlington, Va.: 2,416 plants from Virginia (197066).
ALLARD, Howarp F., Tingo Marfa, Peri: 2 mammals from Tingo Maria (196617).
ALLEN, CaarusEs A., Honolulu, T. H.: 4 marine mollusks from Hawaiian Islands (165642).
ALLEN, RoperT P., Tavernier, Fla.: 148 marine and land mollusks from Inagua and Abaco Islands, Bahamas, and Bonaire, Netherlands West Indies (195094, 195462, 196066).
AtvarEez C., Dr. J., Guayaquil, Ecuador: 13 fishes from Ecuador, collected by donor (196441).
ALtvarEz, Dr. Jost, México, D. F.: 65 fishes from México (195609, exchange); 2 type fishes from México (198086).
Atverson, Dayton L. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Amapon, Dr. Dean. (See American Museum of Natural History.)
Amano, Tetsuo, Naha, Okinawa: 50 plants of Ryukyu Islands (197464).
AMERICAN GESNERIA Society, Palo Alto, Calif.: 1 cultivated plant (197023).
AmeERIcAN INstTITUTE oF HuMAN PALEONTOLOGY. (See Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research.)
AmericAN Mosrtum or NatTurRAL History, New York, N. Y.: 2 birds (196397, exchange); 2 fishes from Brazil (197403, exchange); (through Dr. C. M. Breder, Jr.) 259 fishes collected at Tabasco, México, by B. J. Dontzin and E. Ruda (173471, exchange); (through Dr. Dean Amadon) 3 alcoholic specimens of honey-guides (195188); (through Dr. Frederick H. Pough) rhodochrosite from Colorado, opal from Australia (195996, exchange) ; (through Dr. Mont A. Cazier) 55 insects from Bahamas (196136); 38 beetles from México (197526); (through H. F. Schwarz) 2 wasps from South America (196570); (through John C. Pallister) beetle paratype from México (197894).
AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE, New York, N. Y.: (Through EH. L. Puffer) 1 lot of gorgonians from Gulf of Mexico (196377).
272468—53——_5
AMERICAN SEcuRITY AND Trust Co. (See Temple, Grace Lincoln.)
AmstTER, BERNARD, Paris, France: Quartz crystal from Tamboholehibe Mine, Madagascar (196614).
AwnaconDA CoprpeR MINING Co., Butte, Mont.: (Through M. H. Gidel) 10 copper and manganese ores from Butte, Mont. (197958).
ANANTHAKRISHNAN, T. N., Madras, India: 6 thrips and 10 slides of thrips from South India (196955, 197694, exchange).
ANDERSEN, Haro.p V., Baton Rouge, La.: 10 fresh-water mollusks from Laguna de Viesca, Coahuila, México (196384); 2 slides of paratypes of Recent Foraminifera from Louisiana (198211); 3 foraminiferal specimens from the Eocene of Louisiana (198213, exchange).
AnpeErson, Mrs, Aanzs, Washington, D. C.: Swedish sampler dated (198636).
AnveErson, Dr. W. W. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.) Anpretta, 8. A. (See Justice, U. S. Department of.)
ANDREW, Dr. WARREN, Washington, D. C.: 57 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 3 echinoderms, from Bimini, Bahamas (192372).
AnonyMovs: 12-volume collection of Indian States stamps, 9,862 specimens (196776) ; 11 specimens of Plains Indian ethnological materials (198353, deposit) ; 2,951 Afghanistan stamps (198666).
ApreL, Dr. BerNnarp, Lynn, Mass.: 12 wall plaques and 2 busts (of men famous in medical science) made by wife of donor (198493).
Arauso, Dr. R. L., Sao Paulo, Brazil: 3 rare beetles from Brazil (197290).
ArcHEr, Dr. W. A. (see Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Bureau of Plant Industry, Soils and Agricultural Engineering, National Arboretum Herbarium.)
Arias C., Seraio. (See Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle.)
Arizona, UNIVERSITY oF, Tucson, Ariz.: 129 plants collected in Arizona and New Mexico by K. F. Parker and others (195541, exchange); 131 plants from Arizona (197190, exchange).
ARKANSAS, UNIVERSITY oF, Fayetteville, Ark.: (Through Dr. John A. Sealander, Jr.) 1 white-footed mouse from Garland County, Ark. (194586).
Arkansas Strate Co.uece, State College, Ark.: 14 plants from Arkansas, collected by Dr. Delzie Demaree (198084).
Arnert, Dr. Ross H., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 5 beetles, including 1 cotype

<<<Page: 69>>>

(195429); cotype of beetle from China (195588).
ArNoLD, Dr. Grorcs, Bulawayo, South Africa: 25 ants from South Africa (196574).
ARTIA, Praha, Czechoslovakia: 29 stamps and first-day covers (197758, 198544); recent stamps of Czechoslovakia, first-day covers, and souvenir sheet (197966).
AsuBy, Wa.uuace, Alexandria, Va.: Peccary and mammalian material from Scientists Cliffs and Parkers Creek, Calvert County, Md., collected by donor in 1953 (197546).
ATLANTIC BroLocicaL Station, St. Andrews, New Brunswick, Canada: (Through Dr. W. L. Klawe) 2 crustaceans from Bay of Fundy (196584).
Atomic ENERGy Commission, Albuquerque, N. Mex.: (Through Paul B. Pearson) Atomic glass (trinitite) from Los Alamos, N. Mex. (196640).
Atwoop, Howzanp. (See Huntington Library.)
AucKLAND Musrvum, Auckland, New Zealand: (Through Dr. R. A. Harrison) 6 flies from New Zealand (196437, exchange).
Avueust, Leo, Newark, N. J.: 3 firstday covers (198359).
AusEN, Mrs. J. J. Ladies Aid.)
AUSTRALIA, COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT OF: 1,094 plants collected on National Geographic-Smithsonian Institution—Commonwealth Government of Australia expedition to Arnhem Land in 1948 (198588); 406 Australian plants (195051, 196791, 198082, exchange). Department of Agriculture, Botanic Gardens, Sydney: 2 ferns from New Zealand (195900, exchange); 66 plants of Australia (195958, gift-exchange); 2 cultivated plants (198030). Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra: 258 plants collected in Northern Australia by R. A. Perry (195146, exchange); 83 plants from Northern Australia (197621, exchange); 157 plants from Northern Australia (197830, exchange); 74 plants from Northern Australia (198179).
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT TRADE Commission, New York, N. Y.: (Through R. Hazzard) 22 Australian and 15 Papuan and New Guinea postage stamps of 1952 (196779, 197772).
Avery, Puyuurs, Washington, D. C.: 1 small wooden chest covered with corrugated zine brought from Scotland in 1860 (198619).
AXELROD, Hurpertr R., Bayonne, N. J.: 215 aquarium fishes (197538).
Bassitt, Lewis H., Petersham, Mass.: 6 frogs, 5 snakes, from New
(See Norwegian
Hampshire and Maine, collected by the donor (198582).
BacuMayer, Dr. Frrepricu. (See Naturhistorisches Museum.)
Bavcer, Mrs. June W., Olney, IIL: 300 freshand brackish-water mollusks, and 4 crustaceans, from Hire (198156).
Bapesr, Mrs. 8. E., Middleburg, Va.: 142 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks, 24 marine invertebrates, 5 insects, from Hire (195265); 9 earthworms from Middleburg, Va. (196101).
Bactey, Dr. R. W., Phoenix, Ariz.: 98 chalcid flies from California (197287).
Battey Hortorium, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.: 2 plants (195018); 2 cultivated plants (197197, exchange).
BarLtey, Dr. ReErve M. (See Michican, University of.)
Bautpwin, Dr. J. T., Williamsburg, Va.: 328 plants from Liberia and other African. countries, collected by donor (195634).
Baupwin, Lez, Charles City, Iowa: 9 Devonian brachiopods from Iowa (196438).
Batrour-Browne, J. (See British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)
Bak, Jo, Buffalo, N. Y.: 2 bumblebees from United States (195804).
Bauté Eras, Prof. J. (See Académico de la Real de Ciencias.)
BAMBERGER, Leon J., New Rochelle, N. Y.: First-day cover (198415).
Banner, Dr. Atsert H., Honolulu, T. H.: 13 type specimens of mysid and euphausiid crustaceans from the northeastern Pacific (198432). (See also Hawaii, University of.)
BannistER, Dr. F. A. (See British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)
Barzser, Mrs. Iota Witsey, Berkeley, Calif.: 31 fresh-water mollusks from Sonoma County, Calif. (196639).
Barxatow, Dr. F. §., Jr., Raleigh,
N. C.: 6 mammals from Alaska (196227).
BarRKDULL, Catvin H., Haines, Alaska: 1 goshawk from Alaska (195547).
BarnuHaArT, Lt. CiypE S. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
BarRrReERA, Dr. A. de Investigacién.)
BartTLEy, Fuioyp, Circleville, Ohio: 74 plants from Ohio, West Virginia, and Idaho (196609).
Barton, Dr. A. JAMEs, Stony Brook, L. L., N. Y.: A shell of Muhlenberg’s turtle from Penryn Station, Lebanon County, Pa., collected by Dr. John W. Price (197148).
(See Laboratorios

<<<Page: 70>>>

Bartscu, Dr. Paut, Lorton, Va.: 2 land snails from Lorton (197648); 1 blue jay, 1 crested flycatcher, 1 eastern goldfinch (198558).
Brat, Dr. R.8., Jr., Denver, Colo.: 229 beetles, including types, from western United States (198195).
Bears Buurr Lasoratories, Wadmalaw Island, S. C.: (Through G. Robert Lunz) 7 mollusks from South Carolina (196525).
Braupry, J. R. (See Université de Montreal.)
BECKMANN, Dr. HeEtnz, Hanover, Germany: 25 foraminiferal specimens from the Devonian of Germany (198218, exchange).
Breese, Dr. Wititam. (See New York Zoological Society.)
BEECHER-SMITH, VIRGINIA, Washington, D. C.: Blown Amelung-type flip
lass, cut and engraved wine decanter, 1785-1795 (195291, loan).
Brecker, Dr. Epwarp C., Ottawa, Ontario: 2 paratype beetles from North America (195483).
BrcEetow, R. (See Canadian Government, Department of <Agriculture.)
BEHRENDsS, Mrs. Dorortuy §S., Los Angeles, Calif.: 1 begonia (197827).
Brerrne, Dr. Bryan P. (See Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture.)
Brsnar, Dr. Watpemar, Socorro, N. Mex.: 4 specimens of alluvial tin ore from Amalgamate Tin Mines of Nigeria, Barakin Ladi, Nigeria (196085).
Br.xin, Dr. Joun N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 3 wasps from Guadalcanal (196565).
BrenpeER, Grorcr. (See Parke, Davis and Co.)
Benepict, James E., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 2 ferns (195582); 2 ferns from Tennessee (198138).
Benepict, Dr. Raupx C., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2 ferns from New York (195143, 196031).
Benn, James H., Washington, D. C.: A white-winged crossbill (197188).
BrquaErt, Dr. JosEPH, Cambridge, fea 14 horseflies from Africa (19888).
Bere, Dr. Crirrorp O., Delaware, Ohio: (Through George Steyskal) 8 type flies from Alaska (198301); (through Dwight W. Taylor) 6 land mollusks from Alaska (198550).
BrermupgEz, Dr. Prepro J., Caracas, Venezuela: 7 slides of Tertiary brachiopods from Cuba (196698).
BERNER, Leo D. (See Scripps Institution of Occanveteaphy
BERNIER, WiLuIAM. (See Shaub, Prof. B. M.)
Bicxuirey, Dr. W. E., College Park, Md.: 9 gall midges (195340).
Brags, JosEPH D., Washington, D. C.: 3 mammals from Greenville, N. C. (198127).
BisHop Musrvum, Bernice P., Honolulu, T. H.: (Through Dr. C. H. Edmondson) 2 crabs from Hawaiian Islands (196444); (through Edwin H. Bryan, Jr.) 249 flies, including 70 types, from Marquesas, Tahiti, Society Islands (198590).
Buarr, Jessie, Sedalia, Mo.: 6 invertebrate fossils, corals, and brachiopods, from the R. A. Blair collection (195781).
Buaxer, Mrs. Marcaret, Washington, D. C.: 5 lots of colonial artifacts found on surface at Sutton Point, Md. (198631).
BiLanprorp, Nep, McLean, Va.: 6 mineral specimens (195964, exchange); apophyllite from Fairfax quarry near Centerville, Va. (197468, exchange).
BLaNnDY EXPERIMENTAL Farm, Boyce, Va.: 20 plants (195376).
Bocart, Lowrett E., Albuquerque, N. Mex.: 318 gastropods from the Permian in the Tres Hermanas Mountains and Florida Mountains, N. Mex. (196522).
Bowart, Dr. R. M., Davis, Calif.: 28 miscellaneous insects, including types, from the Orient, Philippines, and United States (196959).
Boxer, J. R., New York, N. Y.: 449 U. 8. precancels of 1902, 1,154 Bureau print precancel errors and varieties (196782).
Boninz, CHESLEIGH, Rehoboth Beach, Del.: 17th century Dutch brick found on the bank of Lewes Creek, Del., near the De Vries Monument (198635).
Bonnet, Dr. Davin D. (See Hawaii Department of Health.)
Borrero, Dr. José Iaenacta. (See Instituto de Ciencias Naturales.)
Botanicau Musreum, Lund, Sweden: (Through Dr. Tycho Norlindh) 100 cryptogams from Sweden (197194, exchange).
BotaniscH MusrEuM EN HERBARIUM, Utrecht, Netherlands: 98 duplicate ferns from Surinam (195156, exchange).
BoraNiscHE STAATSSAMMLUNG, Munich, Germany: (Through Dr. K. Suessenguth) 101 mosses (198270, exchange).
Boucué&, ApRiEN M., Pedro Miguel, C. Z.: 6 plants from Panamé (195540, 196270).
Boucot, ArtHurR J., Arlington, Va.:
45 crystals from Westfield, Mass. (197540, exchange). Boucsre, Dr. Ausert E., New
Orleans, La.: 44 plants from Louisiana (195010).

<<<Page: 71>>>

Boursot, JoHn Basi, San Salvador, El Salvador: 7 echinoderms from La Libertad on the Pacific coast of El Salvador (197846).
Boévers, Frirz, Goslar, Harz, Germany: Specimen of copper-lead-zine ore from Rammelsberg Mine, near Goslar, Germany (198327).
Box, Harotp E., Port of Spain, Trinidad, 1B. VG U8 389 miscellaneous beetles, moths, and bugs, 1 fly, from Central and South America (195794); 225 beetles from Trinidad; 10 moths from México (196517).
Boyce THOMPSON SOUTHWESTERN
ARBORETUM, Superior, Ariz.: 1 cultivated plant (195015). Boypston, Mrs. Katuryn, Niles,
Mich.: Fern from Michigan (195665).
BRADLEY, Mrs. CATHERINE, Eden N. Y.: Marine mollusk from Australia (197477).
BrapDuey, W. H. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of, Geological Survey.)
BRANHAM, Mrs. Hueu, Fort Myers Beach, Fla.: 23 marine moliusks from Florida (196068) ; mollusk from the Red Sea (196638).
Branson, Dr. Cart C., Norman, Okla.: 35 Permian invertebrate fossils from Sicily (198281, exchange).
Breper, Dr. C. M., Jr. (See American Museum of Natural History.)
BRENNAN, Dr. JamMes M., Hamilton Mont.: 15 paratype mites from North and South America (197550).
BRENNER PuHoto Co., Washington, D. C.: (Through Rafael Brenner) Polaroid Land Camera, Model 95 (197997).
Brink, Chaplain FrrepERIcK W. (See Starr, Frederick.)
Briscor, Dr. M. S., Washington, D. C.: 1 trematode (197844).
Britisu GOVERNMENT, British Museum (Natural History), London, England: 150 plants, mostly from Colombia and Europe (195151, exchange); 5 spongilla flies from Europe (195300): (through Paul Freeman) paratype of biting midge from Brazil (195810) ; (through Dr. F. A. Bannister) eanophyliite, Benallt Mine, Wales (196950, exchange); (through G. J. Kerrich) 5 parasitic wasps from West Indies (197221); (through J. Balfour-Browne) 4 beetles, including 3 paratypes, from South America (197893); (through Dr. Ethelwynn Trewavas) 4 fishes from South America (198123, exchange); (through Christine M. F. von Hayek) 13 paral yes beetles from Central America (198491, exchange). Royal Botanic Gardens: plants from South America (195992); 264 plants from Borneo and Siam (197416, 198566, exchange).
BrittineHaM, Mr. and Mrs. T. H., Washington, D. C.: 7 pieces modern Peruvian pottery; 32 ethnological specimens from Yucatén, Guatemala, and Pert; 22 archeological specimens from Pert (196132).
Brock, VERNON E., Honolulu, T. H.: 2 butterfly fishes from Kona, Hawaii, collected by G. Gilbert (196514).
Bronaveg, Dr. and Mrs. AuFrrep T., Washington, D. C.: Oil paintings of Sally Bronaugh Tuckett and Frank Tuckett; field officer’s sword, sash, and epaulets; photograph of Col. Francis Taylor (197775).
BrRooKkMAN, Dr. BrrNarpD, Bakersfield, Calif.: 2 mosquitoes from Lower California (195809).
Brooks, Dr. H. K., Knoxville, Tenn.: 8 Lower Mississippian crinoids from the Cuyahoga shale of Ohio (195779).
Brooks, WiuL1AM G., Redondo Beach, Calif.: 1 plant from México (193362).
Brown, Dr. Barnum, Guatemala City, Guatemala: 100 invertebrate fossils from Tertiary of Guatemala
(195206).
Brown, VeERNoN L., New York, N. Y.: 100 coins for A. N. A. Moritz Wormser Memorial Collection (195299, loan).
Brown, Dr. WatteR C. (See Marshall, Dr. "Joe 405)
Brown, Dr. W. J. (See Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture.)
Brown, Dr. W. L. (See Harvard
University, Museum of Comparative Zoology.)
BruNNER, Dr. Henri, Lausanne, Switzerland: 102 European ferns
(197796, exchange).
Bruns, FRANKLIN R., Jr., Washingconse Dan Ce. 291k assorted philatelic specimens (195924, 198639).
Bruns, Harrie H., New York, N. Y.: 2 United Nations postal cards (195906).
Bryan, Epwin H., Jr. (See Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)
Buck, Papre Pio, Porto Alegre, Brazil: 3 beetles from Brazil (197521, exchange).
Buus, Harvey R., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 17’ marine mollusks from Florida and the Bahamas (196457).
Burcu, Joun B., Richmond, Va.: 75 land snails from Hanover County, Va. (197388).
jReUDIER, W.N., Los Angeles, Calif.:
paratype butterflies from | United see 198320). BUREN, Witir1aM F., Savannah,
Ga.: 300 ane ‘can Puerto Rico (197999). BURMEISTER, JOHN, Preston, Iowa: 2 chert concretions from west side of

<<<Page: 72>>>

Fairfield Township, Jackson County, Towa (196076).
Burminco, Monrovia, Calif.(Through George E. Burnham) 3 bismutosphaerites from Sahanivotsky, Madagascar (195157).
BurnHaM, Grorce E. (See Burminco.)
Burns, Ricoarp C., Boulder City, Nev.: 2 fairy shrimps from Nevada (196169).
Burroucus, Paut F., Concord, N. H.: 50 minerals from Fletcher Mine, North Groton, N. H. (197754, exchange) ; 3 topaz crystals from Bald Face Mountain, N. H. (198124, exchange).
Busu, Dr. Vannevar, Washington, D. C.: Small planing mill used in manufacture of bamboo filaments for early Edison lamps (198085).
BusHer, Mrs. Fiorencre_ Evans, Newbury, Mass.: The C. H. Danforth Collection of excavated Sandwich glass: 320 fragmentary and entire specimens of glass dug by Mr. C. H. Danforth from the site of the Boston & Sandwich Glass Co., Sandwich, Mass. (1825-1888) (196520).
Busuey, Dr. Criinton J., Upland, Ind.: 1,168 landand fresh-water mollusks from Indiana (194842).
Byrrs, Grorce W., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 8 cranefiies from North America (196575); 6 flies, 1 mecopteron, from United States (196920, exchange).
Cater, Morris, Bronx, N. Y.: 4 Japanese swords (198374).
Catuoun, E. L, (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of.)
CALIFORNIA, UNivEersiTy or, Berkeley, Calif.: 2 plants from California (195058, 198181); 75 grasses, hybrids produced by Dr. G. Ledyard Stebbins, Jr. (198083); 19 plants from México (198404); (through Dr. Adolf Pabst) 7 specimens of idocrase from near Georgetown, Calif., 1 brannerite from Mono County, Calif. (197626).
CatirorniA ACADEMY OF SCIENCEs, San Francisco, Calif.: 7 grasses (195419, 195580, 197141); 189 plants from North and South America (197064, 197994, exchange); (through John Thomas Howell) 8 ferns from California (197479) ; (through Hugh Leech) 10 beetles including paratypes (197895, 198088).
CALIFORNIA STATE PoLyTECHNIC Co.tuLEcE, San Luis Obispo, Calif.: 2 grasses from California (196487).
Cauuan, Dr. HE. McC., Trinidad, B. W. I.: 7 insects from Trinidad and Barbados (195927).
CAMBRIDGE, UNIVERSITY or, Cambridge, England: (Through Dr. S. O. Agrell) 2 new mineral species, latiumite
from Latium, Italy, and harkerite from Skye, Scotland (198276, exchange).
CAMBRIDGE, Sgt. Putuip, Ely, Cardiff, South Wales: 1,200 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from northwestern Germany (195760, exchange); 25 Cenozoic mollusks from Germany, France, and England, 5 Pliocene Crustacea from Germany (196223, exchange) ; 128 Jurassic invertebrate fossils from England (197280, exchange).
CamEron, Mrs. Duncan, Washington, D. C.: 2 fans of 18th and 19th centuries; Chinese embroidered shawl (197949).
CAMPBELL, Guy, Hanover, Ind.: 3 Devonian brachiopods from Falls of the Ohio; 1 cephalopod from Ordovician, Hanover, Ind. (197996).
CAMPBELL, Howarp. (See New Mexico State Department of Game and Fish.)
CamMPBELL, Dr. Kennetn, Armidale, New South Wales: 6 brachiopods from Australia (198456, exchange).
CamPBE.L, M. B., Washington, D. C.: 4-keyed transverse flute made by E. G. Williams, London, long in possession of donor’s family (195629).
CANADIAN GOVERNMENT, Ottawa, Ontario: Department of Agriculture: 380 plants from Canada (198603, exchange); (through Dr. W. J. Brown) 500 beetles, including 21 paratypes, from Canada, England, and Greenland (186117, 197549); (through R. 8. Bigelow) 1 thrip from Canada (1960938, exchange) ; (through Dr. G. P. Holland) 6 slides fleas, including paratypes new species and subspecies (196579); (through Dr. Bryan P. Beirne) 6 leafhoppers from British Columbia (197045, exchange); 4 paratypes of bugs from North America (197214); (through Dr. Guy E. Shewell) 3 flies from England (198039, exchange). Geological Survey of Canada: (through Dr. D. J. McLaren) 31 Devonian brachiopods from Rocky Mountains of western Canada (196521). National Museum of Canada: 573 plants of Canadian Arctic collected by Dr. A. KE. Porsild (197954, exchange).
CANFIELD FuNnp, Smithsonian Institution: Specimen of hopeite from Broken Hill, Southern Rhodesia (195643); Idocrase from Pakistan (195846); 13 minerals from many localities (196088); 8 mineral specimens (196610, 196613, 196749); an opal from Andermooka, South Australia (197018); 4 minerals from St. Andreasberg, Harz, Germany (197393); Marcasite specimen from Dobson Mine, Hockerville, Okla. (197749); 1 emerald from Habachtal, Salzburg, Austria (198330); group of

<<<Page: 73>>>

quartz crystals “from Madagascar (198481); specimen* of * “quartz showing unusual “Japanese”? twins, from Tepueste Ranch, Sonora, México (198606).
CaANovVA, LEon J. (See National Geographic Society.)
ANSANI, Marro, Florence, Italy: Cotype ant worker from Sumatra (195167).
CANTRALL, Dr. Irvine J. (See Michigan University of.)
APRILES, Prof. J. Matponapo, Mayaguez, Pues bugs from Venezuela (197223). (See also Puerto Rico, University of.)
CARDENAS, Prof. Martin, Cochabamba, Bolivia: 166 plants from Bolivia (196490).
CArpEnaAs F., Dr. Mauro, México, D. F.: Approximately 450 zoological specimens, including 14 mollusks, 1 amphibian, 35 lots marine invertebrates, 221 lots insects, and 3 plants, from Yucatan and Mexican islands in the Pacifie (194736).
CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON, Washington, D. C.: Deep-sea bottom core sampling apparatus developed by Dr. Charles 8. Piggot (185754) ;sx vehronen Dr. gflisg) b4.D! Pollock) 83 samples of pottery types from Yucatan, México, including Spanish Colonial and Maya wares (196597).
CarRpPENTER, Dr. F. M., Cambridge, Mass.: Scorpion fly from United States (198089). (See also Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology.)
CARPENTER, Col. STantEy J., Fort Baker, Calif.: 127 mosquitoes from California (197998).
CARPENTER, Capt. WALTER N., Arlington, Va.: 15 marine and fresh-water mollusks from the Indo-Pacific area and Georgia (195686).
CaRRIKER, M. A., Jr., Popaydn, Colombia: 3 birds from Colombia collected by K. von Sneidern (195956).
CARTWRIGHT, . B. (See Agriculture, U. 8. Department of, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine.)
Casanova, Dr. RicHarp L. (See Paleontological Research Laboratories.)
CastettER, Dr. E. F. (See New Mexico, University of.)
CASWELL, Epwin B., Cambridge, Idaho: Mole from Idaho’ (197079).
CatTHotic UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA, Washington, D. C.: 136 plants from Canada and Alaska (195153, exchange).
Catina, Tony, Washington, DACx Hair worm (195453).
Causry, Dr. Davin, Feyetteville, Ark.: 8 copepods from Grand Isle, La. (195563) ; 4 type copepods from ‘Port Aransas, "Tex. (196696).
CawTHRON InstitutE, Nelson, New Zealand: (Through Bruce B. Given)
21 wasps from Australia (196352, 197212, exchange).
Cazimr, Dr. Mont A., New York, N. Y.: 12 beetles, including 3 paratypes, from North America (195481). (See also American Museum of Natural History.)
CENTRE D’EruDES ET DE DocuMENTATION PALBEONTOLOGIQUES, Paris, France: (Through Dr. J. Roger) 5 Devonian brachiopods from France (197544, exchange).
CHAKRAVORTY RAMENDRANATH, Washington, D. C.: 40 prints by Mr. Chakravorty for special exhibition January 12-February 8, 1953 (196452, loan).
CHALMERS, Mrs. CHARLES, Washington, D. C.: (Through J. Russell Lowe) Photograph of President Warren G. Harding and 4 original die proofs from engraving made from it by Marcus Baldwin (196316).
CHAMBERLAIN FuND, Frances Lea, Smithsonian Institution: Pink scapolite cat’s-eye from Ceylon (195638); brown tourmaline from Ceylon (196556) ; green apatite from Burma (197075).
CHANDLER, Harry P., Red Bluff, Calif.: 10 paratypes of beetles, 4 paratypes and 3 larvae of spongilla flies, from United States (196453).
Cuane, Dr. T. L., Taipeh, Formosa: Formosan flying squirrel 196649).
CuHapin, Dr. Epwarp A., Washington, D. C.: 4 plants from Massachusetts and West Virginia (195772); 4 isopods from Virginia (197317).
CHAPMAN, Mrs. Evetyn P., Newfield, N. J.: Vineland, N. J., cacheted envelope (195909); cacheted envelope (198361).
CuHapMaNn, H. C., Orlando, Fla.: 30 water bugs from United States (195969, exchange) ; 3 water bugs from United States (197217).
CuHaApMAN, JOHN A., Missoula, Mont.: Fly from Montana (197632). (See also Montana State University.)
CHARLES, Rotanp W., Washington, D. C.: Deformed crab claw found in Gulf of Mexico near mouth of Sabine River (198474).
CHARLESWORTH, Woop & Brown. (See Keighley, Alexander, Estate of.)
CuasgE, Watrer M. (See Parke, Davis & Co. )
CHESAPEAKE Brotocicat LABoRaAtory, Solomons, Md.: (Through Rudolf S. Scheltema) 8 mollusks from Chesapeake Bay (196510).
Cuicaco Narurat History MuvsrEuM, Chicago, Ill.: 8 plants from México (195145) ; a grass collected by J. A. Steyermark in Tennessee (195901) ;

<<<Page: 74>>>

15 miscellaneous plants (198533, exchange) ; 133 photographs of type plants (198534, exchange) ; (through Dr. Loren P. Woods) 4 fishes, including 2 paratypes, from South America (196947, exchange); (through Dr. Karl P. Schmidt) 5 frogs, including paratype, from Matto Grosso, Brazil (197559, exchange).
Cuicaco PHILOMETER Society, Chicago, Ill.: Airmail cover commemorating the 2nd National Philometer Exhibition (196807).
CHRISTCHURCH ScHOOL, Christchurch, Va.: (Through K. E. Hyland, Jr.) 6 lizards collected By donor (195248),
Cuuane, Dr. 8. H., Singapore, Straits Settlements: 50 Recent brachiopods from Singapore (197420).
Crncix, Dr. JosEPH G., Cleveland, Ohio: 2 coins from Slovakia, dated 1941 (196883).
Cuark, CuarENcE E., Canton, Ohio: A Conley hand camera, (196801).
CuarK, Dr. E. (See Missouri Geological Survey and Water Resources.)
Crarxk, Col. Eucrne S., Jr., Sandwich, Mass.: 2 oysters from Bourne, Mass. (197425).
Crark, Dr. EvcEentrs, Buffalo, N. Y.: 582 fishes and 6 reptiles from Red Sea, collected by donor (197623).
CuausENn, Dr. Ropert T. (See Cornell University, Wiegand Herbarium).
CLEMSON COLLEGE, Clemson, 8. C.: (Through Frances McAlister) 6 beetles from South Carolina (195191).
CioakeE, T. Recrinatp, New York, N. Y.: Black gabardine bodice ca. 1890 (196148).
Croup, Dr. Preston E., Jr., Washington, D. C.: Land mollusk from Spain (197423). (See also Interior, U. S. Department of, Geological Survey, and Kopf, Rudolf.)
Cuioyrp, Dr. Wi J. University of.)
Cozsin, Brenepict, New York, N. Y.: 4 Syrian airmail stamps (196802).
CockERILLe£, Epitx, Washington, D. C.: Gold-filled bracelet, 1859 (197879).
Cosy, SytvestEer, New York, N. Y.: 2 ties with philatelic motif (195910).
Cour, Dr. A. C., Knoxville, Tenn.: 131 ants, including 29 paratypes, from North America (196578, 197970); 15 North American ants (197351, exchange).
Corr, Lt. Coarzes F., Norfolk, Va.: 112 fishes and 4 marine invertebrates from Puerto Rico, collected by donor (197847).
Cour, Ezra D., Nyack, N. Y.: An 1888 franked cover (195912).
(See Tennessee,
Coutectors SxHop, Tucson, Ariz.: (Through Morris Elsing) 4 specimens of copper ore from Santa Rosalia Mine, Boleo, Lower California (196953).
Couns, A. C., Victoria, Australia: 16 slides of Tertiary and Recent Foraminifera from Australia (198226, exchange).
Couns, Mrs, R. Lez, Knoxville, Tenn.: Approximately 110 fossils, principally of cetaceans from the Miocene of the Chesapeake Bay region, collected by R. Lee Collins and others (197072).
Coutinson, Newton, Edgewater, Md.: (Through Thomas Mayr) Pottery sherds from Cedar Point, Brewer Creek, Anne Arundel County, Md., collected by donor (197225).
Couttver, F. 8. University of.)
CoLtorapo AGRICULTURAL AND MzCHANICAL COLLEGE, Fort Collins, Colo.: 1 plant, collected in Texas (197355).
CoLOoRADO COLLEGE, Colorado Springs, Colo.: 5 plants (193028).
Cotorapo UNIvEeRsiIry MusEum Boulder, Colo.: 42 plants from Colorado (196488, exchange).
CotumBia UNIvERsITy, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Norman D. Newell) 473 fossils from West Texas (198409, exchange).
Comirato SicInIANO ONORANZE A Frprerico II, Palermo, Italy: Medal commemorating the 700th anniversary of Frederic II, 1250-1950 (194951).
Commerce, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF, Bureau of Public Roads, Washington, D.C.: (Through E. P. Kelley) 11 rocks from various localities in Ethiopia (196492). Coast and Geodetic Survey: 66 reproductions of Coast and Geodetic Survey charts, early editions (196558). Weather Bureau: (Through Dr. G. R. Wright) Kelvin & White electric balance and hand vacuum pump (198641).
CompacniaA SAMMARINESE, Rome, Italy: A first-day cover with block of 4 Italian stamps (196815).
Conpy, Dr. Joun B., Maun, Bechuanaland Protectorate, Africa: 32 skins and skulls of small mammals from Ngamiland, Africa (197573).
CONFERENCE oF District FLora, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. E. H. Walker) 8 plants from Maryland (195054).
Connecticut AGRICULTURAL ExPERIMENT STATION, New Haven, Conn.: 1 plant (195848).
ConsoLIDATED MInInG AND SMELTING CoMPANY OF CanaDa. Ltp., Trail, British Columbia: 18 ores and drill core from Sullivan Mine (197995).
(See Queensland,

<<<Page: 75>>>

Contas, Puitiep Micuasrt (deceased), Roanoke, Va.: (Through Mrs. C. L. Staton) Embroidered, hand-tailored, antique Albanian costume: 2 coats, 4 jackets, belt (197881).
Coox, Rosrert, Washington, D. C.: Indian dance costume of bark cloth collected by donor’s father, Dr. O. F. Cook, in northern Panama (198355).
Cooper, Dr. G. ArtHUR, Washington,
D. C.: 59 Paleozoic brachiopods from Australia (196951).
Coorser, Dr. and Mrs. G. ArtTuur, Washington, D. C.: 400 brachiopods from Becraft formation, eastern New York, collected by donors in September 1952 (195963); 65 Ordovician invertebrate fossils from Whistle Creek formation, Lexington, Va. (196433).
Coorpsr, Dr. K. W., Rochester, N. Y.: 2 type wasps, 1 beetle, from United States (195798); 8,572 miscellaneous insects from all over the world (196577).
CorNELL University, Wiegand Herbarium, Ithaca, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Robert T. Clausen) 3 ferns from North Dakota (196111, exchange).
Cortés, Ratu, Santiago, Chile: 1 fly from Chile (197973).
Cort, H. Epwin. (See Utah, University of.)
Coupray, R. M., Grants, N. Mex.: 4 tyuyamunites, 2 uranophanes, 5 novacekites, from Valencia County, N. Mex. (192877, 198187).
Crarron Grapuic Co., Inc., New York, N. Y.: First-day cover with special cachet of the Gutenberg Bible stamp (196523).
CRANE, JocELYN. (See New York Zoological Society.)
Crans, Emma C., Washington, D. C.: (Through Library of Congress) Silk campaign banner from the political campaign of the Whigs, 1841 (195926).
CreicuTon, W.S8., New York, N. Y.: 195 ants from North America (196455) ; 77 ants from North America (197519, exchange).
Crickmay, Dr. C. H., Calgary, Alberta: 6 Upper Devonian brachiopods from Northwest Territories, Canada (196432, exchange).
Crown AGENTS FOR THE COLONIES, Washington, D. C.: (Through A. J. E. Davis) 12 St. Christopher, Nevis, and Anguilla postage stamps, 2 Zanzibar stamps, 1952 (195908); Gold Coast stamp (196778); 1 4-pence Cayman Islands pictorial stamp, 4 Gold Coast postage stamps, all with portraits of Queen Elizabeth II, issued 19538 (197761); 2 Trinidad Queen Elizabeth II stamps (197967); 12 miscellaneous stamps (198418).
Crump, S. E., Puyallup, Wash.: 1,000 Upper Miocene or Pliocene mollusks from the Bogachiel River, Clallam County, Wash. (195138).
CruUxEnT, Prof. J. M., Caracas, Venezuela: Type samples and potsherds from Esmeralda, Upper Orinoco, Venezuela (196561).
CuULBERSON, WiLLiAM Louts, Madison, Wis.: 37 cryptogams (197412, giftexchange).
Curtis, Karu, Gamboa, C. Z.: A jaguar skull and 7 crocodile teeth (194698).
Cusuion, Mrs. C. C., Washington, D. C.: Canteen and fife used during Civil War by Samuel Hendrickson, USA, Waden, Iowa (195339).
CzECHOSLOVAKIA, GOVERNMENT OF. (See ARTIA.)
Daacett, E. B., Naturita, Colo.: 10 minerals from Mammoth Mine, Tiger, Ariz. (195416).
DAHLGREEN FunpD, Smithsonian Institution: ‘‘Fantastic Landscape,” color wood cut by Jakob Steinhardt (197964).
Datty, Dr. W. A., Indianapolis, Ind.: 35 fresh-water algae (195144, exchange).
Datum, Ricuarp C., Kenvil, N. J.: First-day cover (196806).
Dat, (See Queensland, University of.)
Daumat, Dr. Hersert T., Guatemala City, Guatemala: 18 black flies from Guatemala, including 2 holotypes and 1 allotype (196578).
DanisH Natronat Musrum, Copenhagen, Denmark: (Through Embassy of Denmark) 43 Danish antiquities representing various archeological periods (194739).
Daruineton, Dr. P. J.. Jr. (See Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology.)
Darnevt, Dr. Rezneat M., Minneapolis, Minn.: 11 shrimps and 9 amphipods from northeastern México (195347).
D’Ascenzo, Nicoua G., Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 cut stones, cassiterite and nephrite (198277, exchange).
Davies, Dr. P University of.)
Davis, A. J. Ey. for the Colonies.)
Davis, BERNARD, Philadelphia, Pa.: United Nations Stamp Exhibition cover and sheet of 9 labels (195916).
Davis, Don E., Alamogordo, N. Mex.: (Through John Gettens) Crystal of gypsum and sample of gypsum sand from White Sands National Monument. (196135).
Davis, W. H. (See West Virginia University Museum.)
Daytocious, Mrs. Katina BoposSAKI, Silver Spring, Md.: 1 silk and 2
(See Louisville,
(See Crown Agents

<<<Page: 76>>>

linen doilies of Tenerife and Venetian needlework (197880).
De Anpraps, N. F., Lisbon, Portugal: 4 wasps from Portugal (197289); 5 wasps from Portugal (196494, exchange).
Ds Beaumont, Dr. J. Zoologique.)
Dz Birzanxo, Cestau M., Pelotas, Brazil: Approximately 100 miscellaneous Lepidoptera from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (195023).
Dr CarvatHo, ANTENOR, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 2 toads paratypes, from Sio Jofio da Barra, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, collected by donor and L. de Castro Faria, December 1948 (195652) ; 4 frogs from Brazil collected by donor (197897).
Decoursty, Brig. Gen. ELBERT. (See Defense, U. §. Department of, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology.)
DerrrmeG, MILLIKEN Co., Ine., New York, N. Y.: (Through William M. MacMillan) exhibit with heat meter recording the reflecting power of Milium, and 2 yards of Milium (198406).
DEFENSE, U. DEPARTMENT OF, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, D. C.: (Through Brig. Gen. Elbert Decoursey) 14 hypodermic syringes, 3 hearing aids, 1 hand scales (19'7642) « (through Samuel Lazerow) 34 photographs of Indian subjects taken in former Indian Territory (197947). Department of the Army: (Through Maj. Howard A. MacCord, 578th Engineer Combat Battalion) 1 frog, 2 snakes, 4 lizards, 3 mammals, 2 marine invertebrates, 12 miscellaneous insects, 200 plant lice, from Korea (1952389); (through Dr. E. W. Jameson, Jr.) 190 fleas and mites, on slides from Asia (195801); (through Dr. Lawrence S. Ritchie, Medical Zoology Department) approximately 300 fresh-water and marine mollusks from Korea (1961786); (through Don J. Pletsch, World Health Organization Malaria and Insect Control Team) 10 reptiles from Kaohsiung Prefecture, Taiwan (196271). Army Medical Service Graduate School: (Through Lt. Vernon J. Tipton) 47 mammals, 257 insects, 18 spiders, 2 myriapods, from Madagascar (195076); (through Lt. Col. Robert Traub) 1 slow loris (198090). Medical General Laboratory: 89 mammals from New Guinea (196785); (through Maj. Paul W. Oman) 11 rodents from Japan (194844); 82 mammals from Japan and Siam (196509); 176 miscellaneous insects from Korea and Japan, including holotype and paratypes (197551); (through Lt. John E. Scanlon) 12 wasps, 350 flies, from Korea and Japan (198001). Office of the Chief of
(See Musee
Civil Affairs and Military Government: 32 specimens of the principal native woods of Iriomote Island, Ryukyu Archipelago, collected by Col. Harold B. Donaldson, January 1948 (198616). Preventive Medicine Survey Detachment: (Through Lt. Clyde §. Barnhart) 150 rodents from Korea (196647); (through C. M. Keenan) 78 mammals from Panam4é and Canal Zone (197782). U.S. Military Academy: (Through Maj. Gen. Frederick A. Irving) 2 medallions commemorating the West Point Sesquicentennial (195576). Department of the Navy: 17 lithographs, photographs, prints, and paintings of actions, scenes, and personages in United States Naval history (198285, loan); (through Dr. Harry Hoogstraal, Naval Medical Research Unit No. 8) 838 type ticks from Egypt (195161, 197213) ; 100 land, freshwater, and marine mollusks from ’AngloEgyptian Sudan and Egypt (197975); (through Comdr. W. J. Dougherty, Fleet Epidemic Disease Control Unit No. 2) 3 mammals, 1 reptile, from the western Pacific area (196888) ; (through Lt. W. H. Wells, Naval Medical School) 55 fresh-water and land shells from Venezuela (197783); (through Comdr. K. L. Knight, Malaria and Mosqutto Control Unit No. 1) 369 mosquitoes, including 17 types, from Yemen (198464). Bureau of Ships: 12 models of United States naval vessels (195850, loan); specimen of Angelique wood from French Guiana, South America (197466); 11 chronometers (198140). Naval Historical Foundation: 6 lithographs, photographs, prints, and paintings of actions, scenes, and personages in United States Naval history (198286, loan). Navy Hydrographic Office: 45 marine mollusks from Korea (197896); (through E. Lowe Pierce) 4 lots of plankton collected in the North Atlantic by W. H. Littlewood (195039); (through John Lyman) 15 crabs, 1 stomatopod, 2 echinoderms, 6 insects, 109 mollusks, 1 fish, 8 reptiles, from Persian Gulf (195825); (through Dr. John Lyman and William H. Littlewood) 327 fishes, 138 marine invertebrates, 4 mollusks, from deep waters of Atlantic Ocean (196084); (through Leigh Winslow, Jr.) 1 octopus, 1 echinoderm, from Resolute Bay, Cornwallis Island, Arctic Canada (197784). Office of Naval Research: 5 pieces of silicified wood and 7 slides from Cretaceous of Alaska (195932); (through Paul D. Hurd, Jr.) 3,090 insects from Alaska (197655) ; (through Dr. Ira L. Wiggins) approximately 194 marine invertebrates, mollusks, 2 porpoises, collected at Point Barrow, Alaska (196037, 196321) ; (through Dr. Frank A. Pitelka) 49 bird

<<<Page: 77>>>

skins, 20 bird skeletons, from Arctic Alaska (197246); (through Dr. W. K. Fisher) 27 marine invertebrates from Point Barrow (197310). (See also National Research Council, Pacific Science Board.)
DE Gaona, Dr. M. Rutz, Madrid, Spain: Slab of foraminiferal material from the Tertiary of Spain (198224, exchange).
Decener, Dr. Orro, Waialua, Hawaii (Through William H. Witte) 107 grasses from Hawaii and India (186487).
DE Haan, G. A. L., Ternate, Maluka Utara, Indonesia: 6 birds from Halmaheira (187345).
DE Kuasz, Ivan, Munich, Germany: Approximately 50 Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of Germany (198222, exchange).
DE LA TorRRE Y CauueEsas, Dr. Satvapor, Matanzas, Cuba: 11 butterflies from Cuba (188424). k
Detta State TEACHERS COLLEGE, Cleveland, Miss.: 44 grasses from Mississippi (197418).
DENMARK, EMBASSY (See Danish National Museum.)
Dennis, Jay, New York, N. Y.: 2 SS United States maiden-voyage covers (195848).
Denny, Massy L., Lexington, Ky.: Shoulder cape worn by Mrs. George W. Dunlap at a levee given at White
House by President Lincoln, 1861 (196389). Denver Art Museum, Denver
Colo.: 28 American Indian ethnological specimens collected from Southeastern Indians by Frank G. Speck and from Blackfoot Indians by W. G. Conrad (195542, exchange); Blackfoot and Blood Indian ceremonial objects (196929, exchange).
DePauw UNIveErsitTy, Greencastle, Ind.: Type plant specimen collected in Bolivia by R. Scolnik (196568).
De Souza Lopss, Dr. H., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Approximately 80 marine mollusks from State of Sao Paulo, Brazil (198202, exchange); approximately 50 marine mollusks from Brazil (198626).
DerssEz, HENRIETTE Louise, Bethesda, Md.: California Indian baskets, collected by donor about 1900 (198357).
Dervot, Dr. CHaruEs, Marion, Ind.: Fern from Guam (197070); fern from China (197414).
Dexter, Dr. Rauten W., Kent, Ohio: 44 fairy shrimps including types
(195386).
Dickinson, Martrua. (See Weyhe Gallery.)
Dippe.t, Mrs. W. D., Jacksonville, Fla.: Fern from Florida (196877).
Dix, Grorcs P., Jr., Baltimore, Md.: (Through Frank L. Hess) 28 minerals from Big Indian Wash and White Canyon, Utah (197542).
Dover, Dr. H. R., Chamblee, Ga.: Holotype of fly from United States (197210). (See also Health, Education and Welfare, U.S. Department of, Public Health Service.)
DorrscHuk, Hersert M., Badin, N. C.: 2,221 archeological specimens, principally potsherds, from North Caro-
lina, collected 1932-1952 by donor (196933).
Domantay, Dr. Jos& §S., Manila, Philippines: Approximately 257
hydroids, anemones, and miscellaneous marine invertebrates from the Philippine Islands (198017).
Donatpson, Col. Harotp B. (See Sarawak, Government of.)
Doray, Rosert A., Springfield. Mass.: 221 plants from New England (196429).
Dorion, Ropert C., Guatemala City, Guatemala: 28 shrimps, 1 crab, from tne Guazapacan and Colojate Rivers, Guatemala (198047).
DovucHErty, Dr. Etisworts C., Berkeley, Calif.: 3 amphipods, including 2 types, from California (196697).
DovucuHERty, Comar. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
Drake, Dr. C. J., Ames, Iowa: 36 miscellaneous insects and 14 waterbugs from United States and México (195073) ; 29 bugs, including paratypes, from Western Hemisphere (197219, 198459); 138 bugs from Western Hemisphere (197634, exchange).
DreEssiER, Rosert L., Inglewood, Calif.: 2 plants from México (195778).
Dusar, Dr. G. (See Université Libre de Lille.)
Dusin, Maj. I. N., Chevy Chase, Md.: Corn snake from Chevy Chase, collected by donor (196177).
DuxKe University, Durham, N. C.: Plant from Missiasippis ¢ (197888) ; (through Dr. George W. arton, Jr.) 7 muskrats from near Durham, N. C. (198126).
Douvat, VirarniA, College Park, Md.: 10 implements and devices used on farms, ca. 1870 (198620).
Easton, WiuurAM. (See Williams, DreJes:) Ecote p’AGRicuLtuRE, Rimouski, Quebec: 14 grasses from Canada (196501).
Eppy, Arruur A., West Brookfield, Mass.: Plate holder magazine, invention of Charles W. Eddy, and copy of letters patent (195421, loan).
Eppy, Grorcs A., Washington, D.

<<<Page: 78>>>

C.: Coin from Saudi Arabia dated 1370 A. H. (196884).
Epmonpson, Dr. C. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 6 crabs from Maunalua Bay, Oahu (197127). (See also Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)
Epwarps, Mrs. Ruts E., Jacksonville, Fla.: 4 letters and an envelope from George and Albert Rouillard to their sister, Sarah Rouillard, 1864 (197076).
Epwarps, WIiLu1AM B., Chicago, IIL: Unfinished pistol barrel, made in Colt London factory, 2 brass templates used by Samuel Colt in making first experimental metallic cartridges (197088, loan).
Errrp, Micuart D., Norfolk, Va.: 3 brackish-water mollusks from near Norfolk, Va. (195814).
Eesert, Mrs. Lyn, Chevy Chase, Md.: 35 prints by Mrs. Egbert for exhibition during October 1952 (195787, loan).
EICKEYMEYER Funp, Smithsonian Institution: Street vendor’s ferrotype camera and a bichromate ray filter (198413).
E1senack, Dr. A., Reutlingen, Germany: Approximately 20 Foraminifera from the Ordovician and Silurian of the Baltic region (198225, exchange).
Exupot, Herman, New York, N. Y-.: Zircon fragments from Ceylon (195994).
Eras, Prof. J. BattrA. (See Académico de la Real de Ciencias.)
Extins, J. C., Dallas, Tex.: 83 bugs from United States (195341, exchange) ; 13 Mexican bugs (195793); 2 holotype bugs from South America and México (198425, exchange).
Eusinc, Morris. (See Shop.)
Emerson, Dr. ALFRED, Chicago, IIL: 539 termites from all over the world (197892).
Emery, Dr. K. O. (See Interior, U.S. Department of, Geological Survey.)
ENGINEERING AND WATER SUPPLY DEPARTMENT, Glenelg, South Australia: 1 diatom (195068).
ErpMAN, Donatp S., Puntarenas, Costa Rica: 300 marine mollusks, 1 coral, 3 echinoderms, 3 marine invertebrates, from Costa Rica (195762).
Esati1, Dr. Tre1so, Fukuoka, Japan: 2 cotype and 4 paratype beetles from Japan (194627, exchange).
EscurELA AGRICOLA PANAMERICANA, Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 26 Central American plants (193893); 7 plants from Nicaragua (193894); 900 Honduran plants (195334, exchange); 83 plants from Honduras collected by Dr. Louis O. Williams (195632, 196214, 196220) ; 112an plts from Central America (197649, exchange).
Collectors
EstTaci6n EXPERIMENTAL AGRON6MIcA, Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: Plant from Cuba (196337).
Evans, Dr. ALEXANDER W., New
Haven, Conn.: 3 cryptogams from Florida (196133). Evans, Dr. Howarp E., Ithaca,
N. Y.: 29 wasps from México (197211, 198461); 11 wasps, all types, from United States (197781).
Evans, Mrs. Luctitz, Washington, D. C.: Etching, ‘Flux of Tide,” by donor (195355).
Ewent, H. R., Sulphur Springs, Fla.: Insect from Florida (198028).
EXPERIMENTAL PLANTATIONS INC., Chicacao, Guatemala: 5 plants from Guatemala (194725).
Exspa ComMITTEE, Bronx CouNTY Sramp Cuus, Bronx, N. Y.: (Through Isadore Willinger) 4 covers and 3 labels, Society of Philatelic Americans Convention, 1952 (195907).
FasraNn, Dominick, Portland, Oreg.: First-day cover (198540).
FaueEy, Josern J., Washington, D. C.: 10 loughlinites from Westvaco Mine, near Green River, Wyo. (196044).
Faxes, Dr. CHaries THOMPSON, Schuylerville, N. Y.: 2 marine mollusks (198101).
Farco, Winuiam G., Jackson, Mich.: 112 fossil mollusks from St. Petersburg, Fla. (197960).
Farmer, Lowe. J. ture, U. Department of, Service.)
FassEaux, W. J., Leopoldville, Belgian Congo: 59 grasses from the Belgian Congo (197831).
Fartic, Dr. P. W., Emory University,
(See AgriculForest
Ga.: Holotype fly irom Atlanta (198420). Favour, Paut G., Luray, Va.:
Beetle from Shenandoah National Park, Va. (195803).
FrEpERAL Security AGENcY. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of.)
Frsos, Dr. Paut. (See WennerGren Foundation for Anthropological Research.)
Frennau, R. G., St. Augustine, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 1 holotype bug from Bolivia (197558).
Frercuson, Dr. Epwarp, Jr., Orangeburg, S. C.: 2 slides of type ostracods from Maryland (195828).
Frrcuson, Mrs. Exnua K. (See Wade, Mrs. Mary Kell.)
FESSENDEN, Dr. G. R., Baltimore, Md.: 2 plants from Maryland (195581).
Ficatora, O. J., New York, N. Y.: U. S. Postage Due Bill Follow Sheet bearing block of 40 $1.00 postage stamps (196814).

<<<Page: 79>>>

Fieip, Henry, Coconut Grove, Fla.: 150 Pliocene or Pleistocene gastropods and pelecypods collected by donor and Yusuf Lazar midway between Brighton and Lake Okeechobee, Fla. (194012).
FisHer, Dr. D. JERomE, Chicago, II1.: Mineral from Custer Mountain lode, 8. Dak. (197961).
FisHer, Dr. W. K. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
Fiaty, Epwarp J., Waukegan, IIL: Cacheted cover (198416).
FLEMING, Henry, New York, N. Y.: Moth paratype from Venezuela (195928).
Fiocu, Dr. Hervf, Cayenne, French Guiana: 35 fresh-water and land mollusks from French Guiana (195098).
Fuorencio, Prof. Witter, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 2 minerals from Brazil (1983828, exchange).
FiLoripa, UNIVERSITY oF, Gainesville, Fla.: 27 land mollusks from Florida (194833) ; 5 cultivated plants from Florida (195060, 198185); 2 grasses from Florida (196678); (through Prof. L. A. Hetrick) 7 land snails from Clearwater, Fla. (197812); (through Dr. Leonard E. Swanson) 4 nematode helminths from stomach of deer, collected at Eglin Field, Okaloosa County, Fla. (198045).
FLoripa STATE Boarp oF CoNsERvaTIoNn, Apalachicola, Fla.: (Through Dr. Robert M. Ingle) 3 mollusks from Florida (198247).
Fioripa State UNIversity, Tallahassee, Fla.: (Through Dr. Harold J. Humm) 6 marine mollusks from Florida (195714); (through Marvin L. Wass) 24 shrimps, 5 hermit crabs, 1 hippa, 8 crabs, from vicinity of Alligator Harbor, Fla. (197615). ®:Footr, Dr. RicHarp, Washington, D. C.: 97 mosquito larvae from America and Samoa (197641).
Forattini, Dr. O. P., Sa&o Paulo, Brazil: 4 biting midges from Brazil (198468).
Forsrs, Dr. Wiuu1am T. M., Ithaca, N. Y.: 1 fish fly from Ithaca (195428).
Forp, Cuayton, Lakeport, N. H.: Mineral from Fletcher Mine, North Groton, N. H. (197625, exchange).
Forest, Dr. JAcqurs. (See Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle.)
Fospera, Dr. F. R., Washington, D. C.: 67 miscellaneous beetles from Caracas, Venezuela (196048). (See also Interior, U. 8. Department of, Geological Survey.)
Foster, Dr. Grorce M., Washington, D. C.: Collection of contemporary Mexican basketry obtained by,donor in México, 1944-1946 (195767).
Foster, Mutrorp B., Orlando, Fla.: 17 cultivated plants (196083); 8 plants from Florida (197690); (through Dr. Tobias Lasser) 44 plants collected in Venezuela (193180).
Foster, WILLIAM J. Speleological Society.)
Fourni&R, Rev.Gorpon. (See White Fathers.)
Fox, Dr. Irvine, San Juan, P.R.: 2 mosquitoes from Puerto Rico (197638).
FREEMAN, Paut. (See British Goyernment, British Museum (Natural History).)
FrEeNcH, Maj. Ropert, Washington, D. C.: Russian magazine rifle used in Korean campaign, 1951 (195264).
FripAL, K. H., Jr., Tremonton, Utah: Rare Middle Cambrian cystid from Utah (196952, exchange).
FRIEDERS, Rev. Fasran, St. Meinrad, Ind.: 2 sea anemones, 2 snapping shrimps, from North Bimini, Bahamas (194750).
Fritz, GEorcE W., Keyport, N. J.: 3 pelecypods from the Eocene formation, Holmdel Township, Monmouth County, N. J. (195953).
é rere B. R. (See Pyramid Rubber
O. Funpaci6n Micurnt Litto, Tucuman, Argentina: 4386 plants collected in Argentina (196697); 583 plants from Argentina (197828, exchange); 974 grasses from Argentina and southern Brazil (198604); (through Dr. W. Willink) 3 wasps, including 2 paratypes, from Argentina (196576).
Furman, Prof. DEanz P., Berkeley, Calif.: 3 type mites from United States (198302).
Furniss, R. L., Portland, Oreg.: 229 beetles from Japan (195168).
GaBRIELSON, Dr. Ira N., Vienna, Va.: 111 alcoholic birds from Venezuela (196876).
GaLz, Bennett T. (See Interior, U. S. Department of, National Park Service.)
Gautnpo, Dr. PEpRo. Memorial Laboratory.)
GAMERDINGER, HENRY. aco, Principality of.)
GaupEFrroy, ABB, Rabat, Morocco: (Through Jewell J. Glass) 11 minerals from Morocco (197630, exchange).
GENERAL Morors, Flint, Mich.: Small bronze laboratory model of mechanical fuel pump designed in 1925 by Abraham M. Babitch for A. C. Spark Plug Co. (195902).
GrTTENs, JoHN. (See Davis, Don E.)
GeTtines, Cat O., Toledo, Ohio: 12 minerals from Ohio; 1 from New Mexico (198215, exchange).
(See National
(See Gorgas (See Mon

<<<Page: 80>>>

Gigson, Dr. Juan, México, D. F.: 16 foraminiferal samples from the Tertiary of Mexico (198214, exchange).
GipEL, M.H. (See Anaconda Copper Mining Co.)
GILBERT, BernarpD H., Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 5 sun spiders, 3 spiders, small collection of insects, from Honduras (196380, 197320, 197918).
GiLBERT, Ray C., Austinville, Va.: 20 brachiopods from the Ordovician of Catawba Valley, Va. (195380). ese Isaac. (See Ingle, Robert M.
Griripuian, J. N., Arcadia, Calif.: A cultivated plant (196946).
Girtines, Paut Linwoop, Dallas, Tex.: 96 color prints for exhibition, July— August 1952 (195160, loan).
Caran Bruce G. (See Cawthron Institute.)
Guass, JEWELL J., Scientists Cliffs, Md.: Phosphate rock from between Safi on the Atlantic and the city of Marrakech, Morocco (197470). (See also Gaudefroy, Abbé.)
GuEenNyY, Frep H., Columbus, Ohio: 7 mammals from vicinity of Blue Sea Lake, Quebec (196889).
Gorrers&, Dr. Cartos N. (See Museu Paranaense.)
Goopcuiup, Prof. D. G., Emory University, Ga.: 3 fishes from Eminence, Mo. (196401).
Goopricx Co., B. F., Akron, Ohio: (Through Ray F. Stratton) 3 tires, 1 diorama showing laboratory testing, 4 panels showing ingredients and steps in making tires (198618).
Gorpon, CuaruzEs C., Falls Church, Va.: 1 quail (195141).
Gorpon, MackeEnziz, Jr. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of, Geological Survey.)
Goreas MermortaL LaAsorartory, Panama, Panamé: (Through Dr. Pedro Galindo) 54 mosquitoes, including types, from Panama (197972).
Gostin, Ropert M. (See Ohio State Museum.)
Gosuinze, Dr. Witiram A. (See Hawaii, University of.)
GraETz, Dr. Eric, Balboa, C. Z.: 2 mammals from Panam4 (198644); (through Dr. James Zetek) 3 mammals from Chiriqui, Panamé (196225).
Grar, J. E., Washington, D. C.: Envelope bearing Brazilian meter marks
(195914).
GrarrHamM, A. Aten, Ardmore, Okla.: 60 Ordovician crinoids from the Bromide formation of Oklahoma
(195425, exchange).
Grav, GitBeRt, Hollywood, Calif.: Marine mollusk paratype from South Carolina (195431, exchange).
GREENBERG, BERNARD. (See Kansas, University of.)
GREENFIELD, Ray, Honolulu, T. H.: Bat from Honduras (197558).
GREENWOOD, Wixi1AM, Lautoka, Viti Levu, Fiji: 27 plants collected in Fiji (195770, 197276).
Greece, Dr. R. F., Boulder, Colo.: 3 paratypes of ants from North America (195811).
Grenier, Dr. P., Paris, France: 11 flies from Japan (196853, exchange).
Gressirtt, Dr. J. L. (See under National Research Council.)
Grizs, JOHANNAH B., Washington, D. C.: An embroidered velvet quilt (198031).
Grirritus, Prof. Henry J. (See Minnesota, University of.)
GRoENHART, Dr. P. (See Herbarium Bogcriense.)
Gross, JoserH, Tampa, Fla.: 66 roaches from United States (195792).
GrunpMaAnNN, A. W., Salt Lake City, Utah: 8 cotypes of a new North American ant (196454).
Gur Coast ResparcH LaBporatory, Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through Dr. S. Lee Wallace) 8 decapod crustaceans from Gulf of Mexico (195562).
GutF Hicu Scuoor, New Port Richey, Fla.: (Through Joseph C. Moore) Skull of beaked whale from Pasco County, Fla. (196927).
GuNDERSEN, Mrs. Jenrt E., Los Gatos, Calif.: Medal dated 1674 (198486).
GuntrerR, Dr. Gorpon, Port Aransas, Tex.: A gorgonian from Texas (195979).
Haass, Terry, Paris, France: 27 prints for exhibition November 1952 (196218, loan).
Hass, Dr. Tapasuicr. (See Zoological Institute.) Hackett, C. T., Norfolk, Va.:
Mantis shrimp from Cuba (198261).
Haney, Mrs. F. K., West Newton, Mass.: 11 marine shells from Australia and California (195591, exchange); 176 marine and land shells mainly from Japan and Australia (196070, exchange).
HapwEN HERBARIUM, Worcester, Mass.: 12 plants from Massachusetts (197953).
Haan, Dr. H., Munich, Germany: 19 slides of Foraminifera from the Kocene of Bavaria (198221, exchange).
Haaoop, Maj. Ler, Bolton Landingon-Lake George, N. Y.: Silk robe of Lama Buddhist priest from K’ang Hsi period (1662-1722) of Ch’ing dynasty (195255).
Hate, Herspert M. (See South Australian Museum.)
Haz, [renz, Tulsa, Okla.: Pedestal stereoscope and 25 _— stereographs (198249).

<<<Page: 81>>>

Hatt, Frep, Sherbrook, Quebec: (Through R. Hoffman) Millerite from Eastern Township, Quebec (198407).
Haut, Frep T., Buffalo, N. Y.: 1 skin and 2 partial skeletons of cahow, 17 skeletons of the shearwater, from Bermuda (178094).
HamBLEToON, Dr. Epson J. (See Agriculture, U. Department of, aeons of Entomology and Plant Quarantine.
HameE.Luy, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 5 assorted first-day cacheted and
maiden-voyage covers (195921); 13 first-day covers, 5 stamps, and 2 cacheted covers (196816, 197773, 198419).
HAMMERMILL PaPEeR Co., Erie, Pa.: Seale model of Hammermill’s No. 7
Fourdrinier papermaking machine (197537). HAMMERSLEY, WitirAM, Naknek,
Alaska: 18 artifacts from archeological sities in the Naknek and _ [Iliamna districts of Alaska (196378).
Hanp, Capret, La Jolla, Calif.: 170 specimens of a mollusk (195103); 57 specimens, including 8 types, of hydroids (197034).
HANDLEY, Cuartzs O., Jr., Hillside, Md.: 44 mammals from Virginia (198004, 198564).
Hanepa, Dr. Yata, Zushi, Japan: 121 Japanese fireflies (195791, exchange).
Hanzawa, Prof. SuHosurro, Sendai, Japan: (Through Dr. T. Kobayashi) Rare Permian brachiopod from Japan (198194).
Harpy, Dr. D. Exmo, Honolulu, T. H.: 3 shore flies from South Pacific (195805); 20 paratype flies from Orient and Africa (196569) ; 2 flies from Hawaii (197222). (See also Merubia, Henry, and Hawaii, University of.,
Harper, Dr. Francis, Mont Holly, N. J.: 64 bird skins, 12 mammals, from Keewatin, Canada (196552).
Harper, Dr. R. M., University, Ala.: 292 plants collected in Alabama (196554).
HarRincton, JouHn W., Dallas, Tex.: Skull, lower jaws, and associated vertebrae of fossil colubrid snake from Elm Fork of Trinity River in Denton County,
Tex., collected by donor in 1952 (196035).
Harris, D. B. (See Interior, U. S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Harrison, Dr. R. A. Museum.)
Harrisson, Tom, Kuching, Sarawak, Borneo: 4 red-breasted partridge skins (195259); 4 glossy starlings (195670). (See also Sarawak Museum.)
(See Auckland
Harsu, R. H., Hollywood, Md.: A worm snake from Hollywood, collected by donor in May 1953 (198102).
Hart, Donn V., Denver, Colo.: 3 crabs from Philippines (196102) 32 marine and fresh-water mollusks from Negros Island, Philippines (197358).
Hartman, Dr. Ouca, Los Angeles, Calif.: Type of a polychaete worm from Bikini Atoll (197906). (See also Woodwick, Keith.)
Harvarp UNIVERSITY, Cambridge, Mass.: Arnold Arboretum, 94 plants collected in Fiji by A. C. Smith (195056, exchange). Gray Herbarium: 196 plants (195149, exchange). Mineralogical Museum: 2 hurlbutites from Smith Mine near Newport, N. H. (195422, exchange) ; 3 minerals from United States and 1 from England (197693, exchange). Museum of Comparative Zoology: 5 ants, including cotype, from Philippines and Australia (195790, exchange); approximately 530 miscellaneous mollusks, including 4 lots of paratypes (195970, 197478, exchange) 2 fresh-water mollusks from Lake Lanao, Mindanao, Philippines (196063) (through Dr. H. B. Whittington) 2 Mississippian brachiopods, 6 brachiopods from the Ordovician of Czechoslovakia (195423, exchange); (through Dr. W. L. Brown) 30 ants from Australiaand Borneo, including 2 cotypes (196560, 197837) ; 31 ants from the Orient, Australia, and North America (197207); (through Dr. F. M. Carpenter) 7 insects from Georgia (197555) ; (through Dr. P. J. Darlington, Jr.) 2 female beetles from Costa Rica (197836, exchange).
Harvey, Dr. E. Newton, Princeton, N. J.: 7 lots of ostracod crustaceans from Japan (196590).
HasBrouck, FRANK F., Urbana, IIL: 18 moths, including 4 paratypes, from United States (198460).
Hasecawa, Dr. Hirosur. (See National Institute of Agricultural Sciences.)
HatuHaway, LAURENCE, Easton, Md.: Wooden curd-breaker with iron teeth (198617).
Hatscupacu, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil: 191 plants from Brazil (195348, 196491, 197195, 197956).
Hartorr, Dr. §8., Miyazaki Prefecture, Japan: 50 Japanese plants (197795).
Hawat DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, Honolulu, T. H.: (Through Dr. David D. Bonnet) 6 rats from Canton Island, Phoenix Islands (195766).
Hawa, UNvrersity oF, Honolulu,
. H.: A grass from Hawaii (194835); (through Dr. W. A. Gosline) 21 fishes from Diamond Head, Oahu, T. H., collected by Dr. Gosline (195247, ex

<<<Page: 82>>>

change); 91 fishes and eels from Central Pacific and other fishes from Oahu, T. H. (196134) ; 6 fishes, holotypes and 1 paratype of new species, from Hawaiian Islands (197467, exchange); (through Dr. Albert H. Banner) 163 crangonid shrimps, including types and neotypes of 14 species, from Pacific islands (195385); (through John E. Randall) 19 fishes from the Gilbert Islands, including types of new species (195398, exchange); (through Donald W. Strasburg) 7 fishes, including types, collected in Marshall Islands by Mr. Strasburg (195447); (through Dr. J. E. Alicata) 61 fresh-water mollusks from the Hawaiian Islands (196020, 198205); (through Dr. D. Elmo Hardy) 6 leaf miners from Hawaii (197777).
Haywarp, WynpHaMm, Winter Park, Fla.: 2 plants (194576).
Hazzarp, R. (See Australian Government Trade Commission.)
HEautu, EpucATION, AND WELFARE, U. S. Department or, Washington, D. C.: 11 early penicillin and streptomycin control samples (198232). Food and Drug Administration: (Through R. L. Shelton) Approximately 40 oysters from Hoquiam, Wash. (196051). Public Health Service: (Through Dr. William L. Jellison) Beaked whale from St. Paul Island, Alaska (192454); 2 shrews from Montana (192876); 9 scorpions, 2 sun spiders, from Idaho (195164); 28 fresh-water mollusks from Beaver, Alaska (197235); holotype botfly irom Oregon (198300); 269 miscellaneous insects and 5 marine invertebrates from United States and Canada (198609); (through Dr. Everett L. Schiller) 2 hermit crabs from Amchitka, Alaska (195199); 58 marine invertebrates, 5 mollusks, 1 fish, from Amchitka, Alaska
(197159); (through Betty Locker) 4 mammals from Alaska and Idaho (195951); 2 mice from Montana
(196981); (through E. L. Calboun) a jackrabbit from Arkansas (196049); (through Dr. Laurence Irving) 58 birds from Alaska (196211); (through Dr. Robert Rausch) 52 fresh-water mollusks from Alaska (196460); (through John M. Seago) holotype and allotype of fly from Georgia (197078); 15 flies from United States (198586); (through Dr. Clarence N. Tarzwell) 68 fishes from Columbia River collected summer 1952 (197651); (through Dr. C. B. Philip) botfly from United States (197890); (through Dr. H. R. Dodge) 5 flies from Georgia (198421).
HEBREW UNIveErsity, Jerusalem, Israel: (Through Heinz Steinitz) 13 fishes from Red Sea and vicinity (195777, exchange).
Hepren, Lt. Roperr A., Austin, Tex.: Holotype of mite from Texas (197552).
Herperetn, Dr. Jorn W., La Jolla, Calif.: 5 marine mollusks from Corpus Christi, Tex. (181716); 2 crustaceans, 1 crab, from the Aransas area of the Texas coast (194685); marine mollusk from Costa Rica (198091). (See also Hildebrand, Henry.)
HEINMULLER, JoHN P. V., New York, N. Y.: 1,571 stamps of Belgium, Belgian Congo, and Belgian East Africa (196774) ; first-day cover (198541).
Heuuimicu, Dr. Waiter. (See Zoologische Sammlung des _ Bayerischen Staates.)
Hemestone, Mrs. Smiru, Bethesda, Md.: (Through Smith H. Oliver) 14 tinted photographs of Flemish subjects from the estate of Theodore Williams Noyes (198634).
HERBARIO “BaRBosA RODRIGUES,” Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 185 plants collected in Brazil by P. Raulino Reitz (196792).
HERBARIUM BocGorIEeNnszE, Bogor, Indonesia: (Through Dr. P. Groenhart) 1 lichen (198029, exchange).
HerBert, Dr. ArtHur J., Newark, N. J.: 1 sheet 1952 Lutheran Memorial Hospital Christmas Seals, and Cuban cacheted cover (196813).
Hess, Frank L., Bethesda, Md.: An opal filling “thunder-egg” from the Priday Ranch, Oregon (196800) ; muscovite with garnet inclusions from Spruce Pine, N. C. (197543). (See also Spence, Hugh, and Dix, George P., Jr.)
Hessz, A. J. (See South African Museum.)
Hesse, Rogserrt, Philadelphia, Pa.: Specimen of fiedlerite from Larium, Greece (198275).
Herrick, Prof. L. A. University of.)
Hryu, ALLEN V., Washington, D. C.: 1 botryoidal pyrite from Mifflin, Wis. (195066).
Hizpert, Perer Pavt. Paranense Emilio Goeldi.)
HILDEBRAND, Henry, Port Aransas, Tex.: (Through Dr. Joel Hedgpeth) 2 sea urchins from the Gulf of Mexico (198171).
HysorTH-SgRENSEN, Opp. wegian Embassy.)
Hosss, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottesville, Va.: 3 type crayfishes from Alabama (196104); 68 shrimps from North Carolina and Louisiana (196585) ; 3 type crayfishes from Georgia (197610).
Horune, Dr. F. C., Sao Paulo, Brazil: Plant collected in Brazil (197069).
(See Florida,
(See Museu
(See Nor

<<<Page: 83>>>

Horrman, D., New York, N. Y.: 5 minerals from Blum Lake, near Seven Island—Burnt Creek Railroad right of way, Quebec (197629).
Horeuan Mrs. Frep S., Buffalo, N. Y.: 26 land and fresh-water mollusks from North Africa and France (195680).
Horrman, R. D. (See Hall, Fred.)
HorrMan, RicHarp L., Clifton Forge, Va.: 3 Wellers’ salamanders from Tennessee (195395); 29 miscellaneous insects from Virginia (196580).
HorrMeister, Dr. W. S., Tulsa, Okla., and Tone, Dr. J. A., ‘Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. W. P. Woodring) Approximately 100 Tertiary mollusks from near Cumand, Sucre, Venezuela (198408).
Houuanp, Dr. C. G., Staunton, Va.: 36 land and fresh-water mollusks from archeological sites in Highland and Bath Counties, Va. (195016); skeletal and archeological material from sites in Virginia (195669).
Houuanp, Dr. G. P. (See Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture.)
Houruuis, Dr. L. B., Leiden, Holland: 16 isopods (195035).
Hotton, Mr. and Mrs. A. W., New Bern, N. G.: Portion of mastodon tooth from Pimlico Sound, N. C. (198188).
Homan, B. H. or New York, N. Y.: 33-volume collection of Postal Fiscal Stamps of the Austrian Monarchy (198337).
Honsss, Dr. Raupu F. (See Wyoming Game and Fish Commission.)
Honiemann, Davin, Chapel Hill, N. C.: 43 miscellaneous insects from Pakistan (196819).
HoogstraaL, Harry. (See Defense, U.S. Department of, Department of the
Navy.) Hooper, Mrs. Epwin B., Chevy Chase, Md.: 10 decorated tapa mats, 2
decorated wooden clubs, 3 fiber skirts, given in 1909 by native Samoan chiefs to Chaplain Bower Patrick, USN, father of donor (198629).
Hora, Dr. SunpER Lau. (See India, Government of, Zoological Survey.)
Horan, JOHN R., Idaho Falls, Idaho: 3 samples. of Murray, Calloway County, Kentucky, meteorite (197201).
Horiz, Mrs. Susan, Newark, N. J.: Miscellaneous radio material (195337).
Hornisrook, Dr. N. vr B., Wellington, New Zealand: 45 New Zealand Tertiary Foramanifera, including paratypes (198228, exchange).
LOTTEL, Mrs. JAMES F,, Annapolis, Md.: 2 baskets from the Aleut of Attu Island, Alaska, collected by donor’s husband before 1915 (196485).
Horters, Dr. F. C., Grand Junction, Colo.: 3 aphids (195430); 10 type aphid
slides from United States (196572); 9 plant lice, including types, from United States (196957, 197713).
Howakp, M. J., Eagle Pass, Tex.: 102 ferns from Central America (197307).
Howpen, Henry, Raleigh, N. C.: 69 beetles from United States (196567, 197654).
Howe, J. V., Escondido, Calif.: Complete individual of Canyon Diablo, Ariz., meteorite weighing 1,067 grams (195903).
Howe tt, Dr. B. F., Princeton, N. J.: 2 specimens of shale’ containing examples of a Triassic fresh-water conchostracan crustracean from Princeton,
N. J. (197469). (See also under Princeon University.)
Howe.t, Joun Tuomas. (See California Academy of Sciences.)
Husss, Dr. Cuarx. (See Texas, University of.)
Husricut, Lesuin, Danville, Va.: 2 holotypes and 1 paratype of new species of slug from Virginia (195461).
Hupson, L. S., East Sekauket, N. Y.: Souvenir plate commemorating inauguration of Dwight D. Hisenhower as President of the United States (197590).
Horr, Dr. Cuay G., Bethesda, Md.: 10 wood specimens collected in Panam4, British Guiana, South Africa, Maryland, and Virginia (197650).
Hucues Founp, Brucs, Smithsonian Institution: Archeological surface collections from numerous sites in northern Trans-Jordan and 2 sites in northern Palestine, also a few specimens excavated at Ezion-Geber, Gulf of Aquabah, southern Trans-J ora collected by Dr. Nelson Glueck (177782)
Humes, Dr. ARTHUR G., Boston, Mass.: 10 copepods from Dover, Mass. (196445); 654 type copepods (197807):
Humes, Raupx H., Miami, Fla.: 1,680 Florida tree snails (196163).
Humm, Dr. Haroun J., Tallahassee, Fla.: 12 marine invertebrates and 2 corals from vicinity of Alligator Harbor, Fla. (195030); 2 marine invertebrates from Gulf of Mexico (196588). (See also Florida State University.)
HumMELINCK, Dr. P. WAGENAAR,
Utrecht, Netherlands: 7 beetles from West Indies and South America (196568).
Humpurey, Dr. Wiuiram, Mexico, D. F.: 12 foraminiferal specimens from the Eocene of México (198217).
Huncerrorp, Dr. H. B. (See Kansas, University of.)
Hunt, VireinrA Livineston, Washington, D. C.: French, Italian, and Belgian laces, cut-work, and embroidery and French regional costume accessories,

<<<Page: 84>>>

collected by Mrs. Ridgely Hunt (198210).
Hunter, Col. Grorcr W., III. (See Wohl, Seth.)
Hunter, Mrs. Paut, Arlington, Va.: Cultivated plant (197747).
Huntineton Liprary, San Marino, Calif.: 2 cultivated plants (197024, 197648); (through Howland Atwood) 7 cultivated plants (198455).
Hurp, Paut D., Jr. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
Hurst, Mrs. Anrra K., Alexandria, Va.: Porcelain bust by L. N. Fowler, Ludgate Circus, London, presented in memory of donor’s father, Joseph J. Davis (196766).
Husine, Frep C., Oakland, Calif.: 4 Alameda County Centennial cacheted covers (198338).
Hurcuins, JAMES, Windom, N. C.: Appalachian winter wren (196263).
Hyztanp, K. E. (See Christchurch School.)
Hyman, Dr. Linsre H., New York, N. Y.: 8 paratype slides of cave planarian from Mystic Cave, W. Va.; 1 holotype and 1 paratype slide of cave planarian from Waterfall Cave, Trenton, Ga. (196062); 4 type flatworms on slides from Puerto Rico and Gulf of Mexico (196587).
IcELAND, GOVERNMENT OF, Ministere des Communications, Reykjavik, Iceland: Set of two ‘Holland Help 1953” semi-postal overprints (197776).
IpaHo, UNivrerstty oF, Moscow, Idaho: 277 grasses from Idaho (196107).
IpaHo DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND Gamer, Montpelier, Idaho: (Through Milt Reeves) 12 skins and 14 skulls of muskrats (197406).
IproBo, Dr. Jests. Ciéncias Naturales.)
InurNois, UNIvERSITY oF, Urbana, Ill.: 4 grasses from Illinois (1955438, 196502, 196683) ; 2 grasses from Indiana (195638).
Inuinois State Naturaut History Survey Diviston, Urbana, IIl.: (Through Dr. Lewis J. Stannard) 6 thrips from British Colombia, United States, Jamaica, and Madagascar (197640).
ImBriz, Dr. Joun, New York, N. Y.: 22 foraminiferal samples of Permian Florena shale of Kansas (198220).
Imuay, Dr. Ratpo W. (See Interior, U.S. Department of, Geological Survey.)
IMPERIAL COLLEGE OF TROPICAL AGRICULTURE, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 5 plants from Trinidad (195260).
InpiA, GOVERNMENT oF, Calcutta, India: Geological Survey, 20 Mesozoic ammonites, 66 Upper Paleozoic brachio-
(See Instituto de
272468—_53——8
pods, 5 Upper Paleozoic mollusks, from India and Pakistan (197071, exchange). Zoological Survey: 161 fishes from India (195878, exchange).
INGELOFF, THORSTEN, Karlstad, Sweden: 27 envelopes with commemorative Swedish cancellations; an Arctic Circle postal card (195847, 197350).
InetE, Dr. Rosert M., Apalachicola, Fla.: (Through Isaac Ginsburg) 10 fishes from Gulf of Mexico and Florida (195196). (See also Florida State Board of Conservation.)
Ineram, Dr. Wiut1AM M., Cincinnati, Ohio: 4 European land snails (198128).
Innes, Dr. Wiuuram T., Philadelphia. Pa.: 1 fish from lower Peruvian Amazon (197887).
INSPIRATION CONSOLIDATED COPPER Co., Inspiration, Ariz.: 1 mineral from Inspiration, collected by HE. F. Reed (197419).
INstITUT DES RECHERCHES AGRONOMIQUES, Saigon, Indo-China: 10 grasses collected in Indo-China by Dr. P. A. Petelot (190210).
Institut Royau pEs Scrences NaTURELLES, Brussels, Belgium: (Through J. M. Vrydagh) 10 beetles from Africa (196956, exchange); 2 rare brachiopods from the Tertiary of Belgium (195472, exchange).
InsTITUTE oF Jamaica, Science Museum, Kingston, Jamaica: 141 plants from Jamaica collected by G. R. Proctor (195261); 77 plants from Jamaica (197196, 197417); (through George R. Proctor) 11 plants (195011); (through C. Barnard Lewis) 8 scorpions from Jamaica (195166); 5 marine pelecypods from Kingston Harbor, Jamaica (198430).
Instituto AGRONOMICO po NoRTE, Belém, Parad, Brazil: 521 plants from Brazil (197278, 197308, 198184).
Instituto BotAnico, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Tob{ias Lasser) 100 Venezuelan lichens (195047).
Instituto DE BorAnica, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 6 Brazilian plants (196796).
Instituto DE BotAnica DaRrwIni6n, San Isidro, Argentina: 118 plants from Argentina and other South American countries (195152, exchange).
INstTITUTO DE Cirmnc1as NATURALES, Bogoté, Colombia: 446 plants collected in Colombia by Dr. Hernando GarcfaBarriga (195776); 17 plants (197198, 197746, 197885); (through Dr. Jestis Idrobo) 1 fern (196798); (through Dr. José Ignacio Borrero) 39 fresh-water mollusks from bird stomachs, from Sabana de Bogoté, Colombia (197147).
INsTITUTO DE INVESTIGACIONES VETERINARIAS Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Franco Vergani) 12 freshwater mollusks from Peri (1982083).

<<<Page: 85>>>

InsTiITUTO ECUATORIANO DE CréNncraAs NATURALES, Quito, Ecuador: 358 plants from Ecuador collected by Dr. M. Acosta-Solfs (195420); 231 plants from Ecuador (196500, 197279).
IntEeRIorR, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF, Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C.: 29 plants from the United States (195059, 197199); 6 skeletons of cackling goose (195769) ; 6 clusters of modern brachiopod (197421); 2 trunk skeletons of sand grouse (198557); 675 birds from various parts of North America (198560, 198561); 1 egg of a black rail (198638) ; 583 mammals (198648); (through D. B. Harris) 3 wolves from Alaska (190288); (through Dr. Alden P. Stickney) approximately 65 amphipods from Greenwich Bay, R. J. (194504); (through Stewart Springer) approximately 530 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 13 lots echinoderms, 200 mollusks, collected by M/V Oregon (195033); 215 fishes collected by the M/V Oregon mostly in Gulf of Mexico (195466, 197832); through G. A. Seaman) 7 rodents from the Virgin Islands (195440); (through W. W. Anderson) 287 fishes from Gulf of Mexico and Pacific coast of México (195671); approximately 10,299 shrimps and other marine invertebrates, 2 echinoderms, 5 mollusks, and reptiles (195691); (through Dayton L. Alverson) 4 fishes taken near Destruction Island, Wash. (195778); (through R. O. Smith) 7 marine mollusks from Pert: (196014); (through Gustaf T. Sundstrom) 1 mounted steel-head trout from Ketchikan, Alaska (196949); (through Dr. Victor B. Scheffer) pirapuloid worm, shrimp, crab, and echinoderm, taken from stomachs of walruses caught off Wales and Point Barrow, . Alaska (197055); (through F. M. Uhler) approximately 650 marine, brackishand fresh-water mollusks from the United States and Canada (198168). Geologtcal Survey: Specimen of bismuthinite and bismutite from Hyatt pegmatite, Crystal Mountain District, Larimer County, Colo. (192955); 1 tanged blade from Naknek district, southwestern Alaska (198599); lower jaw
ortion of Uintatherium from Middle focene beds southwest of Wamsutter, Wyo., collected by H. Masursky and G. Pipiringos in 1951 (193661); tooth of horse, and antelope jaw fragment with 2 teeth, from Pliocene of Florida, collected by James B. Cathcart in 1952 (194970); 11 minerals from various localities of the United States, Brazil and India (194971); 7 ludlamite specimens from Blackbird District, Idaho; 10 helvite crystals and 49 specimens of
helvite in magnetite from Iron Mountain, N. Mex. (194972); approximately 375 nonmarine mollusks from 15 different localities in the Book Cliffs coal fields, eastern Utah and western Colorado, representing type and other specimens of about 25 species of gastropods and pelecypods (195880); 17 land mollusks from Guam (196050); 10 fossils from Thomas Range, Juab County, Utah (196448); approximately 45 fossil mammals from Paleocene deposits in the Bison Basin of south-central Wyoming, collected in 1952 by R. W. Brown, Harold Masursky, and H. R. Christner (196483); 4 minerals from Lane County, Oreg., Mammoth Mine, Ariz., and Pershing County, Nev. (196582); 1 mineral from Brazil and 1 from New Mexico (196664); 132 slides of miscellaneous invertebrate fossils resulting from the study of North Atlantic deepsea cores (196770); 41 minerals from Bombi Hill and Bambuta in western Liberia (196992); 64 lots of Tertiary Foraminifera from Gulf Coast of the United States (197202); 60 Cretaceous ammonites and pelecypods and 103 plaster casts of Cretaceous ammonites from western interior (197799); 3 minerals from Lexington Mine, Butte, Mont., and Mina Ragra, Perti (197834) ; (through Dr. W. H. Bradley) trichobezoar from a cow and concretions from stomach of a moose (192735); (through Dr. Preston E. Cloud, Jr.) approximately 4,000 marine mollusks, 1 fish, 1,561 marine invertebrates, 1 alga, 3 lots geological specimens, mainly from Onotoa Atoll, Gilbert Islands (195327) ; 9 Lower Ecoene mammals collected by W. R. Keefer from DuNoir River area of Wind River basin, Fremont County, Wyo., in 1952 (196861); complete fossil fish from Miocene of Stone Canyon Reservoir System, Hollywood, Calif., collected by R. C. Townsend in 1952 (196940) ; 3 fossil fish and 1 slab of footprints from the Moenkopi formation of Utah collected, respectively, from the White Canyon area of San Juan County by W. I. Finch, and 1% miles south of Kanarraville, Iron County, by Dr. J. B. Reeside, Jr., in 1952 (196998); 5 fossil fishes from fresh-water Tertiary deposits near Darb, Saudi Arabia, collected in 1952 by Glen F. Brown (197010); 25 land and fresh-water mollusks from Unaweep Canyon, Colo. (197234); 46 fresh-water mollusks from Alaska (198129); (through Dr. F. R. Fosberg and Dr. F. Stearns MacNeil) approximately 2,111 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 644 sea urchins, 3 starfishes, 35 corals, 7 mammals, 11,000

<<<Page: 86>>>

mollusks, many insects, 53 fishes, and reptiles from the Marshall Islands (194726); (through F. Stearns MacNeil) marine mollusk from Malakal Island, collected by A. B. Bronson (195677); (through Dr. K. O. Emery) 9 marine mollusks from Guam, collected by Dr. Emery (195679) ; (through Dr. James Steele Williams) approximately 174 fossil vertebrates from Powder River Basin, Wind River Basin, Wyo., and Sage Creek area in Montana (196411); (through Dr. Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.) 46 upper Devonian fossil fishes from Colorado, collected by N. H. Bass and 8. A. Northrup, August 21, 1951 (197435); (through Dr. Harry 8. Ladd) approximately 308 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 38 echinoderms, 153 mollusks, 1 coral, and 9 fishes from Eniwetok Atoll, collected by Dr. Ladd (197874); (through Dr. Thomas D. Sayles) 8 fresh-water mollusks from Alaska (198167) ; (through Dr. Ralph W. Imlay) cervical vertebra and 2 associated bones of a pterodactyl from Cretaceous Mowry shale formation, Teigen, Petroleum County, Mont., collected by O. O. Muller in 1952 (198513). National Park Service: 2 pine grosbeaks from Shenandoah National Park (195418); (through Bennett T. Gale) sand specimen contéining sand calcite crystals from Carlsbad Caverns National Park, N. Mex. (181879).
Iowa State Couuece, Ames, Iowa: (Through Jean L. Laffoon) 15 insects (195855).
Irvine, Maj. Gen. Freprerick A. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Depariment of the Army, U. S. Military Academy.)
Irvine, Dr. LAvRENCE. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Department of.)
Ivers, J. D., Pinebluff, N. C.: 29 flies from Tennessee cave (197300).
Jackson, JoE D., San Antonio, Tex.: Piece of petrified tree fern from McMullin County, Tex. (193584).
Jacopson, Morris K., Rockaway Beach, N. Y.: Approximately 100 mollusks from Westchester County, N. Y. (196052).
JAMES, Dr. Maurice T., Pullman, Wash.: 1 fly from Africa (197635). (See also Washington, State College of.)
JAMESON, Dr. E. W., Jr. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Depariment of the Army.)
Jarpim BotAnico, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 36 Brazilian ferns (192748, exchange). 2
JARDIN BOTANIQUE DE L’ETaT, Brussels, Belgium: 325 plants of Belgian Congo and Belgium (195898, exchange) ;
254 plants from Belgian Congo (196425, exchange).
JELLISON, Dr. W. L., Hamilton, Mont.: 8 fleas from Alaska, 2 lice from Idaho (197215). (See also Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of.)
Jenison, Dr. Nancy, Washington, D. C.: Straw hat of Huastec Indian man, village of Vistén, acquired at San Crist6bal de las Casas, México, about 1942 (197878).
JenninGs, Mrs. Lois, Panora, Iowa: (Through Glen Shepard) Cacheted postcard with special cancellation (196780).
Jiménez, Dr. Jos& DE JS., Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 244 plants from the Dominican Republic (195150, 195585, 197415).
Jouns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Dr. Harold E. Vokes) Right valve of Miocene pelecypod from Jamaica (195069, exchange).
Jounson, Bert M., Ypsilanti, Mich.: 4 millipeds from Michigan, including types (197838).
JOHNSTONE, Mrs. Harry Incas, Mobile, Ala.: 15 marine mollusks from Alabama (197427).
Justice, U. 8. DEepartTMENT or, Washington, D. C.: (Through S. A. Andretta) 93 weapons confiscated by agents of U. 8. Department of Justice (197800).
KacosHima UNIversity, Kyusyu, Japan: 447 plants collected in Ryukyu Islands by Dr. 8. Hatusima (196215, exchange).
Katicuer, Mrs. Joun J., Washington, D. C.: 960 miscellaneous marine moltusks (197080).
KANNOwWSKI, Paut B. (See Michigan, University of.)
Kano, Dr. Roxuro, Tokyo, Japan: 9 flies from Japan (197637); (through Lt. John E. Scanlon) 2 flies, new to the collections, from Japan (198299).
Kansas, UNIVERSITY oF, Lawrence, Kans.: 209 plants from Kansas (195147, exchange); 10 grasses from Kansas (198182); (through Dr. H. B. Hungerford) 18 water-boatmen, including 14 paratypes, from United States and México (197968); (through Bernard Greenberg) 9 paratypes of mites from Kansas and Georgia (197969). Museum of Natural History: (Through Dr. Austin B. Williams) 20 paratype crayfishes (196323).
KerarsuEy, E. P., Jacksonville, Fla.: 12 ferns from Florida (197035).
Keaton, R. Roy. (See Lions Inter-
national.) KEENAN, CHARLES J., Portland, Oreg.: 8 Golden Anniversary covers,
1952 (195915).

<<<Page: 87>>>

Krrnan, C. M. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Keirer, H. H., Sacramento, Calif.: 18 slides of mites, paratypes and holotypes (195165).
KEIGHLEY, ALEXANDER, ESTATE OF, Skipton, England: (Through Charlesworth, Wood & Brown) 6 photographic prints by Alexander Keighley (198282).
KELLAR, HERBERT A. (See McCormick Family, Cyrus Hall.)
KeExLEy, E. P. (See Commerce, U. S. Department of, Bureau of Public Roads.)
Keuiy, Dats, Bethlehem, Pa.: 7 early radio specimens (195336).
Kerwtiy, Dr. W. A., East Lansing, Mich.: 34 assorted Paleozoic invertebrates from México, western Canada, and the United States (197281).
Kenprick, Mrs. JANET, Washington, D. C.: Black silk lace shawl, Chinese embroidered silk shawl, 2 Chinese embroidered silk scarves, originally owned by donor’s grandmother (195290).
_Kenx, Dr. Roman. (See Locker, Betty.)
KENNEDY GALLERIES, INc., New York, N. Y.: 27 woodcuts by Jakob Steinhardt for special exhibition, December 8, 1952, through January 11, 1953 (196498, loan).
Kewnepy, Harry D., Bishop, Calif.: 5 mountain midges from California (197208).
Kerr, Grawam, Washington, D. C.: Spencer repeating shotgun (195751).
Kerricy, G. J. (See British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)
Kuauar, Kamen, Norman, Okla.: 2 biting midges from Oklahoma, new species (195357).
Kipwetu, Mario, Washington, D. C.: Silver ladle by C. A. Burnett, Georgetown, ca. 1815 (1955387, loan).
Kintuam, Micuarn, Bethesda, Md.: Copperhead snake collected by donor at Seneca, Md. (195831).
Kiuuip, E. P., Isle of Pines, Cuba: 1 bug from Florida (197520).
Kincaip, Dr. Trevor, Seattle, Wash.: 1,804 wasps from United States (197523, 197971).
Kine, Prof. Ropert L., Iowa City, Iowa: 500 ants from North America (196571).
Kina Rancu, Kingsville, grasses from Texas (196004).
Kirsy-SmirH, Reynoutp M., ZJr., Cocoa, I'la.: Approximately 100 marine and fresh-water mollusks from Florida and Tennessee (196013, exchange); approximately 200 marine mollusks from Cocoa, Fla. (197428, exchange).
INere3 2
Kiscu, B.8., St. Jean-de-Luz, France: 34 marine mollusks from France (195309).
KisstueFrr, M. Z., Philadelphia, Pa.: A mineral from Lane quarry, Westfield, Mass. (197888, exchange); tetrahedrite from Miller quarry on Schuylkill River near Philadelphia, Pa. (197957).
Kiss1ncGER, D. J., Washington, D. C.: 90 ant lions and 1 beetle from México (197780).
Kuawe, Dr. W. L.
Biological Station.)
KLINGEL, GILBERT C., Randallstown, Md.: (Through Carl R. Markwith) 35 mm. Hrnemann Werke motion picture camera (197203).
Knapp, Dr. Frank. (See Texas Cooperative Wildlife Museum.)
Kniacut, Comdr. K. Ll. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Depariment of the Navy.)
Kosayasui, Dr. Trtrcur. (See Hanzawa, Prof. Shoshiro.)
Komaroy, V. L., Botanical Institute of the Academy of the U ured aoe Leningrad, U. S. S. R.: 1,312 plants from U. 'S. S. R. (1953854, 198297, exchange).
Komp, W. H. W., Bethesda, Md.: Slide of mosquito from West Indies (197639).
Korr, Rupour, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. Preston EH. Cloud, Jr.) Slab of limestone containing 6 crinoid heads from the Ordovician of Ontario (198278).
Korecz, E. P., Washington, D. C.: Fragment of Point d’Alengon edging (194961).
Kormitev, Dr. N. A., Buenos Aires, Argentina: Bug from Argentina (195589,
(See Atlantic
exchange). Kouvo, Dr. Otuavi, Outokumpu, Finland: 5 minerals from Finland
(197657, exchange).
Kozuorr, Dr. Euaene N., Portland, Oreg.: 5 slides, 10 type specimens, of ostracod from Crystal Springs Creek, Portland, Oreg. (195332); a type flatworm from Carmel Point, Calif. (196998).
Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 137 miscellaneous insects from California (194968); approximately 900 insects and 50 fresh-water mollusks from United States, Japan, México, and Canal Zone (195240) ; approximately 65 miscellaneous insects from California, Cuba, Hast Africa, and Australia (195568); 20 beetles from Caribbean area (198038).
KromBein, Dr. Karu V., Arlington, Va.: 313 wasps collected at Kill Devil Hills, N. C., in 1950 and 1952 (198154).

<<<Page: 88>>>

Kueuir, Dr. H. G., Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, B. W. I.: (Through Dr. W. P. Woodring) 1,508 Tertiary invertebrates from Trinidad (198358).
Kyoro, UNIvERsITyY or, Kyoto, Japan: 141 plants from Japan and Ryukyu Islands (195842, exchange).
Kyusau University, Fukuoka, Japan: (Through Dr. Keizo Yasumatsu) 10 ants from Micronesia and Japan (197288, exchange).
LABORATORIOS D&E INVESTIGACION, México, D. F.: (Through Dr. A. Barrera) 12 slides of fleas from México (198549, exchange).
LaCuarre, Mauricr, Grand Rapids, Mich.: 52 color prints for special exhibition, September 1952 (195786, loan).
Lapp, Dr. Harry 8. (See Interior, U.S. Department of, Geological Survey.)
LAESSLE, Dr. ALBERT M., Gainesville, Fla.: 19 crabs from Jamaica (197806).
LAFFOON, JEAN L. (See Iowa State College.)
Lamm, Donatp W., Lourengo Marques, Portuguese Hast Africa: 171 birds from Mozambique and Swaziland (198136).
LAMORE, DoNALD, Greenbelt, Md.: An opossum from Greenbelt (196581).
LANKESTER, C. H., Cartago, Costa Rica: 38 Costa Rican plants (195899, 196562).
LARRABEE, Dr. Davin, Washington, D. C.: 2 slabs of Ordovician graptolites from Normanskiil shale, Washington County, N. Y. (198411).
LarsEn, Prof. Esper S., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 36 rocks from Highwood Mountains, Mont. (198193).
LaRous, Dr. Grorce R., Beltsville, Md.: 1,200 lots of parasitic worms (195302).
Lasser, Dr. Tosias. (See Foster, Mulford B., and Instituto Bot4nico.)
Latuam, Roy, Orient, Long Island, N. Y.: Approximately 180 fresh-water and marine mollusks from Long Island (181945) ; 20 slugs (198113).
LatHam, Dr. V. A., Chicago, IIL: Sample of diatomaceous earth from Africa (198245).
Laupon, Dr. Lowrtu R., Madison, Wis.: 3 Mississippian brachiopods from Montana (195068).
Lavurize, Joun §., Seattle, Wash.: 3 fishes from Nova Scotia (192123); approximately 300 hermit crabs and 100 mollusks from Puget Sound (198263).
Lavau UNIVERSITY, Quebec, Quebec: (Through Georges Maheux) 100th Anniversary commemorative medal of Laval University (196652).
LazERow, SAmMuEu. (See Defense, U. 8S. Department of, Armed Forces Medical Library.)
Lea, Joun §., Jr., Bethesda, Md.: (Through John Lea, Sr.) A pipefish from Fire Island, N. Y. (195637).
LE Cauvez, Dr. YoLANpDE, Rennes, France: 29 Foraminifera from the Eocene of France (198279, exchange).
Lez, Dr. Davin J. (See Sydney, University of.)
Lez, Dr. Howarp T. (See Texas Game, Fish, and Oyster Commission.)
Leecu, Dr. Huex B., San Francisco, Calif.: 19 North American beetles (195482). (See also California Academy of Sciences.)
LeRoy, L. W., Golden, Colo.: 133 slides of types and figured specimens and 174 vials representative washed material from Cretaceous and Tertiary of Egypt (197628).
Leston, D., London, England: 5 bugs from England (194230, exchange).
Levey, Haroup, Baltimore, Md.: Millerite from Frostburg, Md. (195967).
Lrvi-CastiLtLo, Dr. Roperto, Guayaquil, Ecuador: 40 mosquitoes from Neotropical region (195808); 5 beetles and 1 bug from Ecuador (196564).
Lewis, Lr. Cou. B. R., Arlington, Va.: Remington Keene carbine, Confederate ‘“‘Richmond’”’? musket, Charleville musket, Civil War musket sling, and Mexican War musket sling (198230, exchange.)
Lewis, C. BERNARD. of Jamaica.)
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, Emma C.)
LINDENBERG, Pau P., New York, N. Y.: A 2-baht Thai airmail stamp (195917).
LinneEvour!, Dr. R., Turku, Finland: 74 miscellaneous bugs from Finland (196137, exchange).
Lions INTERNATIONAL, Chicago, IIl.: (Through R. Roy Keaton) 400 Philippine and 100 Cuban stamps; 2 covers (193611).
Lipscoms, H. H., White, Ga.: Molar of mastodon from Pleistocene 1.7 miles northwest of White and 10 miles northnortheast of Cartersville, Ga. (198190).
LiTHOGRAPHERS NationaL AssoctaTION, Inc., New York, N. Y.: Anexhibit of the history and technical procedures of offset lithography, 142 specimens (198538).
LirrLEwoop, H. (See Defense, U.S. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
Lo Branco, Vittorio, New York, N. Y.: An Italian stamp (196803).
Locker, Berry, Hamilton, Mont.: (Through Dr. Roman Kenk) 32 amphipods and 2 lots mixed plankton from Victor Crossing, Ravalli County, Mont. (196322). (See also Health, Education and Welfare, U. 8. Department of.)
(See Institute
(See Crans,

<<<Page: 89>>>

Locxkuin, CHARLEs R., St. Petersburg, Fla.: Marine mollusk from Gulf of Mexico (196281).
Lorsuica, Dr. ALFRED R., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 9 hippas, 11 crabs, from Vera Cruz, México (198170).
Logan, Hues B., Inverness, Calif.: 2 ferns (195753).
LORENZ, CHARLES, New York, N. Y.: 36 1952 Christmas Seals showing printing progression (198336). (See also National Tuberculosis Association.)
LOUISVILLE, UNIVERSITY OF, Louisville, Ky.: (Through Dr. P. A. Davies) Cultivated fern (197433).
Lovurteic, Dr. Aticra, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 5 plants from Argentina (197191); 11 siamte collected in Brazil by G. Hatschbach (197356).
Lows, CuHarurs H. Jr., Tucson, Ariz.: 2 paratypes of lizards from Socorro County, N. Mex. (196907).
Lowe, J. RussELL. (See Chalmers,
Mrs. Charles.) Lunz, G. Roprert. (See Bears Bluff (See New York
Laboratories.)
Lusy, Irvine R.
School of Printing Stamp Club.)
Lutuy, F. A., Jackson, Mich.: A carte de visite (from steel engraving) of Abraham Lincoln and family (198283).
Lyprecxkerr, C. A. (See Peerless RollLeaf Co., Inc.)
LymaN, Frank, Lantana, Fla.: 6 marine mollusks from off Fort Walton, Fla. (195308).
Lyman, Dr. Joun. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy, Navy Hydrographic Office.)
Maas, ALBERTO E., Alamos, Sonoro,
México: "Specimen of scheelite ore from near Alamos (195844).
MacCorp, Maj. Howarp A., A. P. O.| Va
San Francisco, Calif.: 7 frogs, 8 snakes, from Central Korea (195604); 1 goldfish, 50 diplopods, 1 nematode, 2 insects, 11 mollusks, from near Kapyong Korea, collected 1952 (196619) ; buzzard from Korea (197481). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
MacDovaatt, T., New York, N. Y.: Plant collected in México (195544).
Macrepo, Dr. Amaro, Ituiutaba, Minas, Gerais, Brazil: 178 plants from Brazil (195771, 195775, 196212).
MacGrucor, MAatcoum, Bronxville, N. Y.: 496 specimens of “’A utographed Stamps” collection (196954, loan).
MacKenzizr, Mrs. Wriu1amM, Washington, D. C.: Blue faille dress and black faille shoulder cape, ca. 1886 (198087).
Mackin, Dr. J. G., College Station, Tex.: 116 shrimps from various localities (195200).
MacMiunan, Witiiam M. (See Deering, Milliken & Co.)
MacNert, F. Srearns. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of, Geological Survey.)
Macy, Dr. Ratrn W., Portland, Oreg.: 111 fresh-water mollusks from
Washington and Oregon (195391).
Manervux, Grorees. (See Laval University.)
Mainz, UNIVERSITY oF, Orono, Maine: 225 plants from Maine, collected by Dr. E. C. Ogden and others (195635, exchange).
MALaIsE, Dr. Rurné. (Through Naturhistoriska Riksmuseum.)
Matponapo Caprites, Dr. J. (See Puerto Rico, University of.) Makin, Borys, Seattle, Wash.:
Approximately 275 land and_freshwater mollusks from Idaho, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, and Texas (197103): 12 beetles from United States (198125).
Mazin, S., Washington, by AOR Magneto electric machine (195993).
Maneum, Fuioyp L., Orem, Utah: An algal pillar from Wyoming (195205).
Manirosa, UNIVERSITY or, Winnipeg, Canada: 174 plants from Manitoba (198565, exchange).
MANSFIEID, Cart, Steubenville, Ohio: 55 photographs for special exhibition February 1953 (197472, loan).
Mansvueti, Dr. Romero. (See Natural History Society of Maryland.)
Marsuir, Dr. Jonn Putnam, Washington, D. | 2 uraninites from Joachimsthal, Czechoslovakia (195545) ; specimen commercial wollastonite ore from Willsboro, Hssex County, N. Y. (196045).
Mariners’ Musrum, Newport News, : (Through Harold S. Sniffen) 50 prints for special exhibition May 1953 (198149, loan).
MARINTEZ, Antonio, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 2 beetles, including 1 paratype, from Argentina (197524).
MARLOR, Mrs. VALERIE S., Cheverly,
Md.: 5 eryptogams from ” California (198244).
MarxkwitH, Cart R. (See Klingel, Gilbert C.)
Marriott, JAcK L., College Park, Md.: 3 shrimps from 'Galesville, Md. (196320).
Marsu, J. A., Atherton, Australia: 10 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Atherton Tableland, northeastern Queensland, Australia (197700, exchange).
MarsHALL, Ernest B., Laurel, Md.: 11 mammals from Laurel ’(198287).
MarsHauL, Dr. Jor T., and Brown, Dr. WALTER Ory, Evanston, Tll.: 35 lizards from Arno Atoll, Marshall

<<<Page: 90>>>

Islands, collected by Dr. Joe T. Marshall under auspices of the Pacific
Science Board (196155). MarsHatt, LaurENcE K. (See Peabody-Harvard Expedition.) Martin, Marvin M., Sr., San
Francisco, Calif.: 97 marine mollusks from Kwajalein Atoll (198005).
MassacHuseTts, State or, Phillips Wildlife Laboratory, Upton, Mazss.: (Through James J. McDonough) Cottontail rabbit from Penikese Island, Mass. (194949).
MASSACHUSETTS, UNIVERSITY OF, Amherst, Mass.: (Through Marion E. Smith) 17 insects from United States (196958).
Matrox, Dr. N. T., Los Angeles, Calif.: Nudibranch mollusk from Puerto Rico, holotype and 2 paratypes of a new species (197476).
Matupa, Dr. Erz1, México, D. F.: 260 plants from México (191544, 194260,
195099); 65 grasses from México (193518).
Maxon, C. E. (See New Jersey Zine Co.)
May, JEROME F. (deceased): (Through Florence White) 8 ship models (189555, bequest).
MayatLt, Harry, Seattle, Wash.: Sample of Trans-O-Graph Process
printed in relief in 6 colors (195356). Maysorck, Franz, Salzburg, Austria: A cut emerald, Habachtal, Austria (198033). Mayer, Fritz, Hamburg, Germany: 13 tropical aquarium fishes (198273).
Mayr, Tuomas. (See Collinson, Newton.)
McAutster, FrRancrEs. (See Clemson College.)
McCaut’s Move GaraGe, Hillsboro, N. Mex.: 2 spurs found in 19th century forge at Hillsboro; nails found in courthouse and jail at Hillsboro, dating from prior to 1863 (198628).
McCammon, GrorcE W. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.)
McCuatcuir, Maj. SAMUEL, Toronto, Ontario: 34 plants from Hokkaido (195198).
McCormick Famity, Crrus Haut, Chicago, Ill.: (Through Herbert A. Kellar) % scale model of Cyrus Hall McCormick’s 1931 reaper (121526).
McCormick-GoopHart, LEANDER, Alexandria, Va.: Evening coat of eiderdown, period 1928 (195645).
McCown, T. D. (See Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research.)
McDermott, F. A., Wilmington, Del.: Approximately 95 beetles from Jamaica (197474),
McDonacu, Mrs. Tuomas P., La Plata, Md.: A hair brooch and earrings
(196970).
McDonovcnu, JAMES J. (See Massachusetts, State of, Phillips Wildlife Laboratory.)
McDounnovucu, Dr. J. H., Halifax, Nova Scotia: 5 paratypes of moths from California (196232, 197652).
McKnew, Tuomas W. (See National Geographic Society.)
McLane, WiuiiAM M., Welaka, Fla.: 9 fresh-water shrimps from Big Lake George, Fla. (195036) ; 230 shrimps and 43 mollusks from Yateras River, Oriente
Province, Cuba (195827). McLaren, Dr. D. J. (See Canadian
Government, Geological Survey of Canada.)
McLrop, Mrs. Epita, Klamath Falls, Oreg.: An alga from Oregon
(197200).
McManan, Lytzr L., Butler, Pa.: A fungus from Pennsylvania (195087).
Meantey, Brooke, Stuttgart, Ark.: 4 king rails (195050).
MerrHaAN, Roursa L., Washington, D. C.: Victorian gold brooch set with 8 small garnets (195263).
Meurine, A. L., Hyattsville, Md.: 6 land mollusks from Florida (197426).
Menta, DurrupHal, Ghatkopar, India: First-day cover and 6 stamps from India (196804); envelope with circular cachet marking third anniversary of Republic of India (197756); 3 Indian “Railway Centenary” first-day covers (1983860).
MELLARD, F. W., Washington, D. C.: A broadaxe head (198139).
MeutzerR, Doris. (See National Serigraph Society.)
Menzies, Dr. Rosert J., La Jolla, Calif.: 137 isopods, including paratypes (195306).
Merck AND Co., Rahway, N. J.: (Through John A. Wells) 16 flasks and dosage form samples of penicillin and streptomycin (198365).
Mermop, Dr. G. (See Museum of Natural History.)
Merusia, Henry, Cochabamba, Bolivia: (Through Dr. D. Elmo Hardy) 224 flies from Bolivia (197220).
Meovrer, J. J., Hillengom, Netherlands: 86 bugs from Netherlands (198037, exchange).
Meyerson, Danret C., Harrison, N. Y.: Letter sheet carried from St. John’s overland to Portugal Cove and across Conception Bay via the packet Express to Harbor Grace (198458).
Miami, University or, Coral Gables, Fla.: (Through Dr. F. G. Walton Smith) 35 lots of sponges, including 11 type lots, from Gulf of Mexico (196226);

<<<Page: 91>>>

(through Prof, Luis René Rivas) a ribbon fish from Florida (197677); (through Dr. Hilary B. Moore) approximately 50 marine mollusks from off Miami (198623).
MicHener, Dr. C. D., Lawrence, Kans.: 32 bees from Panamé4 (197354, exchange).
MicHicGan, UNIVERSITY oF, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 749 plants collected in southeastern United States by R. L. Wilbur and G. L. Webster (195053, exchange); 8 isotypes of cacti collected by Dr. E. U. Clover (195057, exchange) ; 776 marine algae from Bermuda collected by Dr. W. R. Taylor and A. J. Bernatowicez (195154, exchange); 189 Mexican plants (195155, 195296, 197850); 1,000 land mollusks mainly from Canada (197644, exchange); 55 plants collected in México by Rogers McVaugh (197884, 198532); (through Dr. Robert R. Miller) 414 fishes (181680, exchange) ; (through Dr. Reeve M. Bailey) 6 fishes from Rio Trujillo west of Rancho Grande, Zacatecas, México, collected by J. Greenbank and party (195501, exchange); (through Dr. Irving J. Cantrall) 23 miscellaneous insects from United States (197422); (through P. B. Kannowski) 55 ants, including 5 cotype workers, from North America (197554, 198153); (through Dwight W. Taylor) approximately 20 paratype specimens of fresh-water mollusk from the Pleistocene of Beaver county, Okla. (198494, exchange).
Mixes, Mrs. ARNoLD, Washington, D. C.: Stoneware effigy jug with incised letters ‘‘Lewis Eyre,”’ dated 1838 (196486); wooden stirring paddle and stoneware jar (198615).
Miter, Mrs. Acnges TayLor, Washington, D. C.: 2 china-head dolls, late 19th century (195426).
Miuuer, Epwarp G., Jr., New York, N. Y.: Mounted sailfish taken by donor off Acapulco, México, 1950 (196948).
MiLuEr, Greores, Hillsboro, N. Mex.: Crinoid from Lake Valley formation, Lake Valley, N. Mex., from the Mrs.
Ninette Stocker Miller collection (195782). Miuuer, Dr. Ropert R. (See Mich-
igan, University of.)
Miner, Mrs. Leo D., Washington, D. C.: Collection of objects of Chinese and Japanese art (196447).
MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA Y CRIA, Caracas, Venezuela: 55 plants from Venezuela (198402).
Minnesota, University or, Minneapolis, Minn.: 9 Mexican plants (195584); 16 fresh-water snails from Minnesota (197701); 359 plants from Minnesota, (198567, exchange) ; (through
Prof. Henry J. Griffiths) 22 fresh-water mollusks from Minnesota (195307).
Minty, Courtrensy A., San Jacinto, Calif.: Book of original military records of Col. Robert H. G. Minty, Cumberland Army, 1862-1865 (197480).
Missouri, University or, Columbia, Mo.: 2 grasses from Missouri (196106).
Missourt BoranicaL GARDEN, St. Louis, Mo.: 7 grasses (195021); 55
rasses collected in Africa by A. Pappi 195148, exchange); cultivated plant (195539); cultivated plant (195961, exchange) ; 713 miscellaneous ferns, mostly from Europe and Asia (197826, exchange); (through Dr. Rolla M. Tryon, Jr.) 3 duplicate type ferns from the United States (198257, exchange).
Missourrt GroLogicaL SURVEY AND WatER ReEsovurRcEsS, Rolla, Mo.:: (Through Dr. E. L. Clark) 8 Lower Mississippian crinoids from southwestern Missouri, collected by Dr. T. Beveridge (195783).
Mircue tu, Dr. T. B., Raleigh, N. C.: 4 bees from United States (195807, exchange); 11 bees from Panamé4, holotypes and allotypes (197352, exchange).
Mizusuima, M., Hongo, Tokyo, Japan: 104 plants from Japan (195055).
Mocxrorp, Epwarp L., Gainesville, Fla.: 4 paratypes of bark lice from United States (195675, exchange).
Moecr, ArtrHur H., Milwaukee, Wis.: 6 butterflies from Nevada (198422).
Morrat, Mrs. AsBotr Lows, Washington, D. C.: 16 pieces of period costuming of last half of 19th and early 20th centuries (197889).
Monaco, PrINcIPALITY oF, Office of Emissions of Timbres-Poste: 6 “Postage Stamp Museum” inauguration stamps (195968) ; (through Henry Gamerdinger) 20 stamps Monaco 1952, and airmail and postage sets on first-day covers (197763).
Monros, Dr. F., Tucumdn, Argentina: 417 beetles from Ecuador and Panamé, (197218).
Montana STaTE CoLuecs, Bozeman, Mont.: Grass from Montana (195098).
Montana State University, Missoula, Mont.: (Through John A. Chapman) 5 scorpion flies and 4 flies from Montana (196631).
Monteomery, Rurz, Peoria, Ill: Working model of a fanning mill invented by grandfather and great uncle of donor, patented in 1857 (198650).
Monrreat, UNiversiri pr, Montreal, Quebec: (Through J. R. Beaudry) A katydid from Montreal (198281).
Moors, Mrs. Doris LAneiry, London, England: Black crepe dress and

<<<Page: 92>>>

white"cuffs worn by:Queen$Victoria,’ca. | 5 Muster’ Boranique CAnTonaL, Lau-
1880 (197712). 3
Moors, Dr. Hinary B. (See Miam!, University of.)
Moores, JoserH<C. (See Gulf High School.)
Moors, Dr. R. C., Lawrence,’ Kans. : 180 Permian brachiopods from the island of Timor (195067).
Moort, W. FRANKLIN, Freeville, N. Y.: Ithaca calendar clock, Octagon Model (197345).
Moort, Dr. Watter G., New Orleans, La.: (Through Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson) 22 copepods, including 2 types, from Washington Parish, La. (196329).
MooreHEAD, Atan, Hyattsville, Md.: Spencer repeating carbine, model 1865 (197286, eT ae
Moravian Musrvum, Brno, Czechoslovakia: 100 eryptogams (198269, exchange.)
Morean, Mrs. Berry, Washington, D. C.: Parula warbler and ovenbird (196038).
Mortan, Dr. Harvey B., Santa Fe, N. Mex.: Holotype and allotype of a flea from United States (197891).
Morton, Conrap V., Washington, D. C.: 179 Malayan ferns collected by Mrs. B. M. Allen (197067).
Moseman, Dr. A. H. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Bureau of Plant Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering.)
Mostsr, A. G., Sedro Woolley, Wash.: Copper arrowpoint from Klondike gold fields, Dawson, Canada (195026).
Mout, Dr. Epwin T., New Brunswick, N. J.: Approximately 600 land and marine mollusks from Onotoa Atoll, Gilbert Islands, and Majuro Atoll, Marshall Islands (194952); 29 lizards, 7 mammals, 100 mollusks from Onotoa, Gilbert Islands, collected by donor (195134).
Movstey, Louis B., San Bernardino, Calif.: 2 marine mollusks from Guaymas, Sonora, México (194958).
MugrsreBecr, Dr. Cart F. W. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine.)
Mumrorp, Russett E., Cortland, Ind.: 14 bats from Indiana (193974, 196671); 21 bats and mice from Indiana (197385); 15 small mammals from Indiana (198376).
Munn, L. H., Center Point, Ala.: Specimen of coral from Gulf Shores, Ala. (197096).
Munrosn, Heten, Washington, D. C.: 2 pins of the National Union of Women’s Suffrage Societies, and the American Women’s Legion, 1917-1918 (196773).
Morray, Dr. J. J., Lexington, Va.: 15 birds from Virginia (195654, 195937).
sanne, Switzerland: 207 plants of Switzerland (197465, exchange).
Muster ZooLociquE, Lausanne, Switzerland: (Through Dr. J. de Beaumont) 68 wasps from Palearctic region (198196, exchange).
Museo bE Histor1a Natura, Montevideo, Uruguay: (Through Dr. Hector S. Osorio) 30 lichens from Uruguay (197193, exchange).
Musto bE Histortra Natura “JaVIER Prapo,” Lima, Pert: 56 Peruvian grasses and a plant collected by Ramén Ferreyra (195335, 195774); 50 grasses from Perd (196790).
Museu ParaNnaENnss, Curitiba, Paran4, Brazil: (Through Dr. Carlos N. Gofferjé) 2 types of marine mollusk from Brazil (198015).
Museu PARANENSE EmItio GOELDI, Belem, Paré, Brazil: (Through Peter Paul Hilbert) Potsherds from various sites on Marajo Island, Brazil (191451).
Mustum Nationat p’Hisrorrse NatURELLE, Paris, France: (Through Dr. Jacques Forest) 11 crustaceans (194749, exchange).
Museum or Narurat History, Geneva, Switzerland: (Through Dr. G. Mermod) Approximately 80 fresh-water mollusks from Lac du Bourget, Switzerland (196505, exchange).
Myers, Dr. Greorce 8. ford University.)
MyYK.Lesgost, Tor. Embassy.)
Nasir, *Ep, Van Nuys, Calif.: (Through Dr. A. Wetmore) 75 rolls of 35 mm. negatives from Philippine Islands (197592).
NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, Pacific Science Board, Washington, D. C.: 100 plants from Ryukyu Islands (197952).
NationaL CapitAL SESQUICENTENNIAL Commission, Washington, D. C.: Silk official flag of National Capital Sesquicentennial Celebration, 1800— 1950; silk United States flag, 1950 (195923).
NatTionaL Cotton Councit oF AMERica, New York, N. Y.: 30. modern cotton fabrics exemplifying various finishes and weaves (196515).
NaTIoNAL GeroGRrApHIc SocIETY, Washington, D. C.: (Through Thomas W. McKnew) Stone celt from Grandchester, near foothills of Little Liverpool Range, Ipswich, Queensland, Australia, collected by James A. Mahoney (195628); through Leon J. Canova) 2 sea urchins from Mossel Bay, South Africa (196890). (See also Australia, Commonwealth Government of.)
(See Stan-
(See Norwegian

<<<Page: 93>>>

Nationau INstituTtE oF AGRICULTURAL SciENCES, Nishigahara, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Hitoshi Hasegawa) Approximately 195 Japanese bugs (196436, 198002, exchange).
National PHOTOGRAPHIC Socinry, Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry B. Shaw) 49 monochrome prints and 57 color transparencies for special exhibition December 1952 (196646, loan).
NATIONAL RESEARCH Counct, Pacific Science Board, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. J. i Gressitt) 20 insects from Micronesia (195075); (through Department of the Navy, Office of Naval Research) a collection of mollusks, specimens of parasitic worms; echinoderms; 14 mammals, 45 birds, reptiles and amphibians, 130 insects, approximately 3,410 marine invertebrates, from Raroia Atoll and other localities in Fiji, Cook, Society, and Tuamotu Islands, collected by Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison (196971).
NaTIoNaL SERIGRAPH Socinty, New York, N. Y.: (Through Doris Meltzer) 25 serigraphs by Dorr Bothwell for special exhibition, September 1952 (195784, loan).
NatIONAL SPELEOLOGICAL SocIEry, THE, Washington, D. C.: (Through Wm. J. Foster) 3 francolites from Poorfarm Cave, near Hillsboro, W. Va. (1964380).
NatTIonaAL TarwaN UNIveErRsiIty, Taipeh, China: 107 plants collected in the Ryukyu Islands (195064, exchange).
NatTionaL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATION, New York, N. Y.: (Through Charles Lorenz) 8 1952 National Tuberculosis Christmas seals (197766).
NationaL University, Yokohama, Japan: 69 fossil brachiopods from Japan (198036, exchange).
Natura History Museum, San Diego, Calif.: A grass from California (195826) ; 50 plants from Baja, Calif. (198183).
NatuRAL History Society or MaryLAND, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Dr. Romeo Mansueti) 2 leeches, 19 shrimps, 132 crayfishes, 4 crabs, 2 insects, 25 mollusks, 11 reptiles and amphibians (187545).
NATURHISTORISCHES MusEvum, Vienna, Austria: (Through Dr. A. Schiener) 25° Alpine saline minerals (194810, exchange); (through Dr. Friedrich Bachmayer) 3855 ‘Triassic and Paleozoic brachiopods from Austria (195424, exchange); (through Dr. Karl Rechinger) 100 eryptogams (196643, exchange).
NATURHISTORISKA RIKSMUSEET, Stockholm, Sweden: 2,070 plants collected in Cuba by E. L. Ekman, in Colombia by K. von Sneidern, and in
Ecuador by I. Holmgren and O. Heilborn (196768, exchange); (through Dr. René Mailaise) 8 paratypes of beetles from Burma (195800).
Naytor, Ricuarp M., Lakeland, Fla.: 2 ferns (195664, 197534).
NEBRASKA, UNIVERSITY oF, Lincoln, Nebr.: (Through Dr. L. W. ’Quate) 4 stink bugs from United States (198423, exchange).
Nepraska State Game, ForestaTION AND PARKS Commission, Lincoln,
Nebr.: 39 grasses from ‘Nebraska (195446). Neepuam, R. M., Lancaster, Ohio:
9 first-day covers of United’ States postage stamps (196817, 197767, 198417).
NELSON, Gaprie Washing ton, DswCe 17 beetles from North Rens (198000).
Nespsitt, H.H., Jr., Ottawa, Ontario: 2 paratype mites on slide from British Columbia (197556).
NETHERLANDS PostaL ADMINISTRATION, The Hague, Netherlands: 5 Netherlands stamps (196811); 1 semi-postal overpriné (197762).
Neversure, Dr. Grorce J., North Hollywood, Calif.: 12 crystals from Pacoima Canyon, near Los Angeles, Calif. (197539).
Nevapa, UNivERsiTyY oF, Reno, Nev.: A grass from Nevada (196108).
New Jersey Zinc Co., New York, N. Y.: (Through C. Re Maxon) 12 objects illustrating the use of zinc, and
specimen of zinc ore (sphalerite) (198621). Newett, Dr. Norman D. (See
Columbia University.)
Newnan, D. R., Washington, D. C.: (Through ‘Walter B. Newman) 11 reptiles and amphibians from Korea collected by donor in 1952 (195653).
NEWMAN, WALTER B. (See Newman, D. R.)
New Mexico, UNiversity or, Albuquerque, N. Mex.: Plant from Mount Taylor (195579); (through Dr. E. F. Castetter) 5 ferns from New Mexico (198137).
New Mexico Stats DEPARTMENT OF GAME AND F isu, Albuquerque, N. Mex.: (Through Howard Campbell) Nematode from stomach of marsh hawk, Bernalillo County, N. Mex. (194840).
New Mexico WEstTERN COLLEGE, Silver City, N. Mex.: (Through K. Vandenbosch) 5 invertebrate fossils from vicinity of Silver City (196699, exchange).
Newsam, Dr. ArtHur. (See Rubber Research Institute of Malaya.)
NewYork Botanical GARDEN, New York, N. Y.: 271 miscellaneous plants (195636, gift-exchange) ; 283 plants collected in Venezuela by Dr. Bassett

<<<Page: 94>>>

Maguire (195989); 323 plants collected in Nyasaland, Africa, by L. Brass (195990, exchange); 302 plants from Pakistan collected by R. R. Stewart (196041, exchange); 166 plants, mostly collected in Venezuela by Bassett Maguire (196449, exchange); 4 ferns from the West Indies (198319).
New York ScHoou or PRINTING Stamp Cuus, New York, N. Y.: (Through Irving R. Lush) Folder featuring copy of Gutenberg Bible stamp (197755).
New York Zoouocican Sociery, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. William Beebe) 14,500 fishes, 22 marine invertebrates, 8 mollusks, 1 echinoderm, 2 reptiles collected by Dr. Beebe in the Western Atlantic (196272); (through Jocelyn Crane and Dr. William Beebe) 34 insects from Trinidad (198462).
NicaRacua, GOVERNMENT OF. (See Oficina de Control de Especies Postales y Filatelia.)
Nicot, Dr. Davip, Washington, D. C.: 2,000 Lower Cretaceous pelecypods from Texas (196771).
Nicoxtay, Lt. Col. S. S., Quantico, Va.: 912 moths from western United States (195812, 196616).
NININGER, H. H., Winslow, Ariz.: 2 slices of meteorite from Camp Verde, Ariz. (197835).
Nisson, WILLIAM H., Petaluma, Calif.: 4 minerals from California (195995, exchange).
Norutnpu, Dr. Tycuo. ical Museum.)
NortaH Carouina, UNIVERSITY OF, Chapel Hill, N. C.: 59 plants from North Carolina (198180, exchange).
Nort Caronina STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND ENGINEERING, Raleigh, N. C.: Plant collected in North Carolina (195931).
Norta Dakota AGRICULTURAL CoLLEGE, Fargo, N. Dak.: 1 _ hepatic (195262); 114 plants from North Dakota (1962138, gift-exchange).
Norton, Prof. FrmpERIcK H., Cambridge, Mass.: 118 lots of fragments of English earthenware, ca. 1800-1850, from site of Daniel Bayley Pottery, Newburyport, Mass., collected by Mrs Lura W. Watkins and donor in 1934
(198354).
Norton, Harry E., Chevy Chase Md.: Pair cast-iron tongs (195538).
Norton, Dr. J. B. S., Hyattsville, Md.: Fern from Virginia (193014).
peeves Empassy, Washington D. C.: (Through Tor Myklebost and aa” “Hjorth-Sgrensen) 7 Norwegian stamps (195852); (through Tor Myklebost) 5 Norwegian stamps and 2 post
(See Botan-
Norwecian Lapies Arp (WASHINGTON AREA), Arlington, Va.: (Through Mrs. J. J. Ausen) Doll in folk costume of Hallingdal Valley, Norway, made by Mrs. Dora Suel, and 9 colored illustrations of regional Norwegian folk costumes (197411).
Oaxs, O. A., Wilmette, TIll.: 2 wood specimens from Fiji Islands (198536).
O’Bryan, Deric, Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: 2 marine mollusks from West Hudson’s Strait, Arctic Canada (194831).
Ocuoa, Dr. Cantos, Huancayo, Pert: 74 plants. (1967938, 197622).
OrnHseErR, Mrs. GRACE, Arlington, Va.: 22 block prints by Mrs. Oehser for special exhibition, February and March 1953 (197204, loan); 2 block prints by donor (198150).
OruseR, Paut H., Arlington, Va.: A Stori-viewer stereoscope (196219); bronze medal commemorating 50th anniversary of Ford Motor Co. (198414).
OFICINA DE CoNTROL DE ESPECIES PosTaLes y Finateria, Managua, Nicaragua: (Through Agustin Vanegas P.) 20 stamps, 4 souvenir sheets and 4 first-day covers from Nicaragua (195905, 198332).
Onto State ARCHAEOLOGICAL AND Historicaut Society, Columbus, Ohio: (Through Erwin C. Zepp) First-day cover of Ohio Sesquicentennial stamp (197483).
Onio State Museum, Columbus, Ohio: (Through Robert M. Goslin) 2 bats from Ohio (197570).
Onto State UNiversity, Columbus, Ohio: 11 plants from Ohio (195062, 195445).
Oxapba, Dr. Toyounr, Tokyo, Japan: 124 biting midges from Japan (195813).
OKLAHOMA AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE, Stillwater, Okla.: 56 grasses from Oklahoma (196489, exchange).
Outp, Witu1AM E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.: Colt powder flask (195046); 59 marine mollusks from Ceylon, the Philippines, and Virginia (195249, exchange); approximately 70 land mollusks from Camp Mackall, Richmond County,
OLDENBURG, Marcaret, St. Paul, Minn.: 5 diatom samples trom Canada (197955).
OutvER, Suite H. Mrs. Smith).
OuseN, Dr. Letanp §&., Lincoln, Nebr.: 13 lots, including 10 holotypes, of new species of nematodes from fishes, from Tortugas, Fla.; Honolulu, T. H.; and San Juan Island, Wash. (195625).
Ousson, Dr. A. A., Coral Gables, Fla.:
(See Hempstone,
cards for official use (196810, 197769).14 pelecypods from "the Cretaceous of

<<<Page: 95>>>

Pert (186776); 6 land snails from Pert (195101); a pelecypod holotype from Upper Cretaceous of Tolima Province, Colombia (197019).
Oman, Maj. Paut W. (See Defense, U. 8S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
OmwakE, H. Gricrer, Greenwood, Del.: 176 potsherds from various sites in Sussex County, Del., and Worcester County, Md., collected by donor (197409); 6 collections of colonial artifacts excavated from 6 sites in Maryland and Delaware (198633).
ORBIS, Prague, Czechoslovakia: 31 mint sets and first-day covers of eight 1952 stamp issues (195849); 27 Czechoslovakian stamps, first-day covers, exhibition sheets and postal cards of recent issues (196775).
Orcks V., Dr. Gustavo, Quito, Ecuador: 182 marine invertebrates from Ecuador (195128).
OrpPHAL, G. FRED, Brooklyn, N. Y.: “‘Measurette” (measuring board for infants) (196528).
Ortiz-CorpERO, Dr. Ia@Nnacio, Caracas, Venezuela: 21 biting midges from Venezuela (195788).
Ortiz Ecuacus, Jos&, Madrid, Spain: 15 carbon fresson prints by donor (195070).
Osorio, Dr. Hector 8. de Historia Natural.)
Oraco Museum, Dunedin, New Zealand: (Through Dr. H. D. Skinner) 13 ethnological specimens from the Moriori of Chatham Island and a Polynesian stone adze (195556, exchange).
Paxsst, Dr. Apotr. (See California, University of.)
Packer, Mr. and Mrs. Haru L., Washington, D. C.: Woman’s 10-piece Burmese costume of appliqued silk and silver filigree, and 2 stuffed lizard skins from Tunisia (195256).
PALEONTOLOGICAL RESEARCH [LABORATORIES, Statesville, N. C.: (Through Dr. Richard L. Casanova) 15 Permian invertebrate fossils from Maya Mountains, British Honduras (196222, exchange).
PALLIsTER, JOHN C. (See American Museum of Natural History.)
ParkE, Davis & Co., Detroit, Mich.: (Through George Bender) 12 mounted prints illustrating the history of pharmacy, with 11 captions (197974); (through Walter M. Chase) chloromycetin demonstration case (198233).
Parker, Ropert H., La Jolla, Calif.: 5 mollusks from Louisiana (197224).
Parxuorst, Josupn L., Jr., Colonia, N. J.: 81 marine mollusks from Maine, Massachusetts, and New _ Jersey (197140, 197808); 19 echinoderms from
(See Museo
the East Coast, California, and British Isles (197321).
Parsons, Cart T., Burlington, Vt.: 2 beetles from United States (197653, exchange).
Parsons, W. Howarp R., Bay Shore, L. I., N. Y.: Model of New York Central electric locomotive made by donor (195549).
Partcuick, Paut F., Pasadena, Calif.: 17 minerals from various localities in California (197410, exchange).
Patrick, Dr. Ruta. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.)
Patten, Grawam H., Discovery, Transvaal, Union of South Africa: 2 birds: honey-guide and bee eater (196039).
Patron, Mrs. Horace M., Arlingtcn, Va.: 11 photographs of Russian subjects from villages in vicinity of Nijni Novgorod, silver icon, hand-embroidered linen shirt, silver belt, collected by donor and husband in Russia 1930 (198268).
Pautsun, J. (See Tgjhusmuseet.)
PEABODY-HARVARD EXPEDITION, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through Laurence K. Marshall) 1,023 mammals, 80 birds, 59 reptiles, approximately 150 mollusks, 375 insects, 39 plants, collected by Charles O. Handley, Jr., in South-West Africa and Bechuanaland Protectorate (196914).
Prarsr, Dr. A. 8., Durham, N. C.:: 140 marine invertebrates, including 65 types, from Alligator Harbor, Fla., and 3 copepods, including 2 types, from San Diego, Calif. (195027, 196009); 10 parasitic isopods, including types, and 9 host shrimps (197614).
Parson, Paut B. (See Atomic Energy Commission.)
Precuuman, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N. Y.: Horsefly from Chile (195189, exchange).
Psecx, E. Miutnor, Pleasantville, N. Y.: 11 first-day covers (195920 196777, 197770, 198542).
PEERLESS Rout-Lear Co., Inc., Union City, N. J.: (Through C. A. Lydecker) 24 specimens comprising an exhibit of Roll-Leaf Stamping (198537).
Penn, Dr. Grorcr H., New Orleans, La.: 38 crayfishes, including 8 types, from Louisiana and Texas (195756).
PENNSYLVANIA, University or, University Museum, Philadelphia, Pa.: 60 potsherds and 1 vessel from Santarem, Brazil (195293, exchange).
PéREZ-FarranteE, Dr. IsaBuy, Bauta, Cuba: 6 shrimps from Laguna Doctor, Playa de Baracoa, Cuba (196105).
Purry, Dr. Stuart H., Adrian, Mich.: 561 Permian invertebrate fossils from

<<<Page: 96>>>

Sicily (196089); sample of the Soroti, Uganda, Africa, meteorite (196881).
Perers, Davin, Herndon, Va.: 3 snakes from Forestville, Va., collected by donor (198511).
Peterson, G. D., Agaiia, Guam: 2 land mollusks from Guam (197292, 198591).
PETTiBONE, Dr. Martian H., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 46 type specimens of a polychaete from James Pond, Martha’s Vineyard, Mass. (198106) ; 3,253 polychaetes from Puget Sound, Wash. (198610).
Puetes, Dr. Witi1am H., Caracas, Venezuela: 11 birds from Venezuela representing forms new to the collections (191437, 195142, exchange); skin of Venezuelan hummingbird (195090); bones of black vulture (196423); 2 type birds (197977, deposit).
Puiurp, Dr. C. B. (See Health, Edueae and Welfare, U. S. Department of.
PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE, Bureau of Posts, Manila, P. I.: (Through Juan Ruiz) 142 Philippine postage stamps (197205).
Pures, Ira D., Santa Rosa, Calif.A lichen from California (197337).
PHuireGeR, Dr. Frep B., La Jolla, Calif.: 296 type slides of Recent Foraminifera (195780); 162 type slides of Recent Foraminifera from Gulf of Mexico (198219).
Pickrorp, Dr. Grace EH. New Haven, Conn.: 180 octopuses, including 2 types from North America (195763).
Prerce, E. Lows. (See Defense, U. 8S. Department of, Department of the Navy, Navy Hydrographic Office.)
Pinssry, Dr. Henry A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Approximately 20 barnacles from off Palm Beach, Fla. (196694). (See also Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.)
Pirenka, Dr. Frank A. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
PLATZKER, Puitiep H., New York, N. Y.: 86 mounted stamps depicting incidents from Bible (195919, 195925, 197760).
PietscH, Don J. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Department of the Army.)
PoLAND, GOVERNMENT OF. (See VARI MEX.)
Pottock, Dr. H. E. D. (See Carnegie Institution of Washington.)
Porr, ALLEN, Washington, D. C.: Pope gasoline engine, ca. 1898 (196879).
Porr, Mrs. Joun A., Washington, D. C.: 3 photographic prints (197285).
Postes, TELEGRAPHES ET TELEPHONES, DIRECTION GENERALE DES,
The Hague, Netherlands: 5 Netherlands stamps (198368).
Post OrricE DEPARTMENT, Washington, D. C.: 88 specimens postal stationery; 267 foreign postage stamps described in Universal Postal Union Bulletins Nos. 2-IV and 4-IV, 1952 (195623) ; 480 stamps: 1 each of postage Stamps issued in foreign countries described in Universal Postal Union Bulletins, March and April 1952 (196138); 24 commemorative stamps (196268); 831 foreign postage stamps described in Universal Postal Union Bulletin Nos. 12-IV, 15-IV, and 17-IV (196686) ; 822 postage stamps issued in foreign countries and described in Universal Postal Union Bulletins Nos. 19-IV, 20-IV, 23-IV, and 24-IV (196687); 3 each of National Guard, Washington Territory, Ohio Statehood, and International Red Cross stamps (197848); 270 postage stamps: 1 each of stamps issued in foreign countries and described in Universal Postal Union Bulletin No. 25-IV, November 25, 1952, and 108 stamps in No. 1-IV, January 9, 1953 (198201); 490 postage stamps: 1 each of stamps issued in foreign countries and described in Universal Postal Union Bulletins No. 5-IV, February 24, 1953, and No. 7-IV, March 24, 1953 (198303).
PoucH, Dr. FrEepERicK H., New York, N. Y.: A cat’s-eye beryl from Madagascar (197541, exchange). (See also American Museum of Natural History.)
Pratt, Dr. Harry D., Chamblee, Ga.: Insects collected on El Yunque, Puerto Rico (169787); 6 adults, 4 larvae of North American mosquitoes (195789); 185 miscellaneous insects from Puerto Rico (196147).
Pratt, Prof. Ivan, Corvallis, Oreg.: 3 types of new species of trematode from Oregon (198111).
Pricr STABILIZATION, OFFICE OF, Washington, D. C.: 9 miscellaneous buttons, pins and ribbon bars of type awarded by O. P. S. to employees for meritorious service (197206).
PRINCETON UNIveERsITy, Princeton, N. J.: (Through Dr. B. F. Howell) 7 Tertiary brachiopods from Patagonia (195065).
Proctor, GEorRGE R. of Jamaica.)
Proctor, Mrs. Joun L., Washington, D. C.: Laces and embroideries (198267).
PuERTO Rico, UNIvEersiTy or, Mayagiiez, P. R.: (Through Dr. J. Maldonado Capriles) 8 type assassin bugs from Mona Island, Venezuela, and Colombia (195071); 4 mayflies, 212
(See Institute

<<<Page: 97>>>

moths and butterflies, from Venezuela (196456).
Purrer, E. L. leum Institute.)
PurcHASE, Dorotuy A., Watertown, Mass.: 30 prints by Frank R. Fraprie, 12 prints by Leonard Misonne (195159).
Purcuon, Dr. R. Denstion, Singapore, 8. S.: 6 boring clams from Singapore (196648); 3 marine mollusks, 9 crustaceans, from Malaya (198024).
PurDUE UNIveERsity, Lafayette, Ind.: (Through Howard E. Woodin) A grass from Texas (196787).
PYRAMID RUBBER Co., Ohio: (Through B. R. Frost) Even-flo nursing bottle with Dr. Griesinger nipple (197802).
QuatE, Dr. L. W. (See Nebraska, University of.)
QUEENSLAND, UNIVERSITY oF, Brisbane, Australia: (Through W. Dall) 22 Penaeid shrimps (198014, exchange); (through Dr. F. 8. Colliver) 53 fossils from Australia (198035, exchange).
Quinn, Col. J. F., Arlington, Va.: 2 tectites from Mandaluyong Loop, Philippine Islands (196882).
RADULPHUS COLLEGE, Curacao, Netherlands West Indies: 85 plants collected on Curagao by Brother M. Arnoldo (195052).
RAEMAEKERS, Rotanp H., Gemena, Belgian Congo: 62 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from Belgian Congo, Pakistan, and Brazil (194973, exchange).
RancHo Santa Ana Botanic GarDEN, Claremont, Calif.: 2 grasses from California (196684).
University of.)
Rapaus, JosepH §., Easthampton, Mass.: Datolite from Lane Quarry, Westfield, Mass. (195683).
Rapp, F. W., Vicksburg, Mich.: 101 grasses from Michigan (197251).
Rasetti, Dr. FRaNco, Baltimore, Md.: 10 gastropods from the Cambrian Mount White formation, British Columbia (198192).
Rasor, Dr. CuHaries A., Grand Junction, Colo.: Uraninite from Grey Dawn Mine, La Sal Creek, San Juan County, Utah (195673).
RaTHENAU, Ernest G., New York, N. Y.: 113 documentary photographs for special exhibition, October 1952 (196047, loan).
Rauscu, Dr. Roperr. (See Health, Education and Welfare, U. S. Department of.)
(See American Petro-
(See Hawaii,
ReEcuHiInGER, Dr. Karu. (See Naturhistorisches Museum.) Rees, Dr. Don M. (See Utah,
University of.)
Ravenna, | D
Reese, Mrs. Rosert, Alexandria, Va.: Yellow-billed cuckoo (195375).
Reeves, Mitr. (See Idaho Department of Fish and Game.)
Reun, J. A. G. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.)
Reintty, Col. Joun R. (retired), Winnetka, Ill.: United States flag, ca. 1896-1908, guidon of Battery F 5th U. 8. Artillery, and battle flag of the Philippine Insurrectionists (197527).
REINER, IGnatz. (See Society of
Philatelic Americans.) REINHARD, Dr. E. G., Washington, . C.: A crustacean collected from Black Rocks, off New River, N. C. (195940); 2 rhizocephalans on spider crab from California (196695).
ReEInuARD, Prof. H. J., College Station, Tex.: 53 beetles, including paratypes, from Texas (195074); 17 type flies from United States (196566, 197353, 197778).
Reiss, Dr. Z., Jerusalem, Israel: 88 Foraminifera from the Cretaceous and Tertiary of Israel (198212, exchange).
ReneorG, Bertin A. (See United Nations Postal Administration.)
RenFro, Mrs. Rusy F., Fort Worth, Tex.: 16 brachiopods from Pennsylvanian rocks of north central Texas (197624).
Revuty, Caru, Sidney, Ohio: Firstday cover, and souvenir program with with stamp of Ohio Statehood first-day ceremonies (197771).
RuopES UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, Grahamstown, South Africa: (Through Dr. J. L. B. Smith) 2 scales from a living coelacanth from Anjounan Island, Comoro Islands, Indian Ocean (198041, exchange).
RicHAarRDs, CuHarues §., Mitchell, Nebr.: 26 fresh-water mollusks from South Dakota (196984).
Ricuarps, Dr. O. W., London, England: 2 paratypes of wasps (196886, exchange).
Rippize, Mrs. W. (See Westtown School.)
RIETSCHEL, ERNEST, Shelton, Conn.: 15 East German and 4 West German stamps (195911, 198333).
RIJKSHERBARIUM, Leiden, Netherlands: 71 plants collected in Indonesia by J. Elbert (197063, exchange).
RiIJKSMUSEUM VooR VOLKENKUNDE, Leiden, Netherlands: A cast of Leyden Plate (194746, exchange).
Riptey, Dr. 8. Ditton. (See Yale University, Peabody Museum of Natural History.)
Riestra, J. Henri, Chicago, IIL: Bronze medal of Lincoln (196092). Ritcurz, Dr. Lawrence 8. (See
Defense, U. S. Department of, Depart

<<<Page: 98>>>

ment of the Army, Medical Zoology Department.)
Rivas, Prof. Luis René. (See University of Miami.) Rosack, Dr. Seuwyn 8. (See Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences of Philadel-
phia.) Roperts, Capt. C. C., Belmont, Mass.: Pottery figurine water jar, col-
lected by donor from the Mayumba of the Kwilu River, south French Equatorial Africa (195257).
Roserts, Dr. Frank H. H., Jr. (See Smithsonian Institution, River Basin Surveys.)
ROcKEFELLER FounpDaATIoN, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr. F. L. Soper) 1,496 horseflies from Brazil (152475).
RoEBLING Funp, Smithsonian Institution: 3 garnets, 2 spherulitic rhyolites, 2 red epidotes from near Alamos, Sonora, México (194500) ; 9 minerals from Madagascar and Africa (195381); 2 garnets from Cear4, Brazil (195639); 9 minerals from Nevada, Colorado, California, and Sweden (195640); 5 minerals from Chile, Hungary, and Switzerland (195641); 6 minerals from Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, and England (195642); 6 slabs of agate from México (195845); 7 kasolites from Green Monster mine, Goodsprings, Nev. (196042); 6 minerals from Germany and Saxony (196043); phosphate minerals from the Sapucaia pegmatite, Municipio of Conselheiro Pena, Minas Gerais, Brazil; specimen of native tellurium with tellurite, Sonora, México (196086); 6 zeolites from Berufiord, Iceland (196087); 2 penroseites from Pacajake Mine, Colquechaca, Bolivia (196557); 4 specimens of crytolite from Pine, Jefferson County, Colo. (196611); 172 minerals from various localities (196612, 197015, 197751, 197753, 198146); a pyromorphite, Silver Hill, Davidson County, N. C.; a diaboleite, Mammoth Mine, Tiger, Ariz. (196772) ; a rockbridgeite specimen from Fletcher Mine, North Groton, N. H. (197016); 4 minerals, Utah, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and California (197017): @ specimen of Cortez, Montenumns County, Colo., meteorite (197074); 3 stony meteorites from Alamogordo, N. Mex., Kingfisher, Okla., and Rush Creek, Colo. (197282); 5 minerals from Ojuela Mine, Mapimi, México (197283) ; 18 minerals from Madagascar, Spain, Yugoslavia, England, Tasmania, Russia, México, Portugal, and France (197317); 7 minerals from Mapimi, México (197750) ; 4 vanadinites from San Carlos Mine, Chihuahua, México (197752); a garnet from Minot, Androscoggin
County, Maine (198141); approximately ! I.:
100 iron and manganese phosphates from Fletcher Mine, North Groton, N. H. (198148); 4 minerals from México and Argentina (198145); 100 topaz crystals and 7 phenakite crystals from Bald Face Mountain, N. H. (198147); 12 minerals from Norway (198317); 8 minerals from Canada and coast of Lake Superior (198329); 20 minerals from Chile and Bolivia (198480); iris agate from Oregon (198482); linarite specimen from Socorro County, N. Mex. (198608). : Roger, Dr. J. (See Centre d’ Etudes et de Documentation Paléontologiques.) Rogers, Dr. Ruty T., Daytona, Fla.: A Sabine’s gull (198051). A., Richmond,
RosEBEeRRY, DEAN 1 fish from Clinch River, Va.
Va.: (194128).
Ross, Mrs. Heten M., Millburn, N. J.: 22 first-day covers (195851, 196812, 197774, 198362).
Ross, Nort, Beaver, Alaska: 3 beetles from Alaska (196784).
Rory, Vincent D., Corvallis, Oreg.: 4 paratypes of spiders from Oregon (195795).
Rotusium, Morris, Camden, N. J.: 2 philatelic specimens (197765).
Row.ey, Eimer B., Glens Falls, N. Y.: Fluorescent rose quartz from Bumpus quarry, Maine (196880, exchange).
Royat Forest DEPARTMENT, Bangkok, Thailand: 20 wood samples of Thailand (197692, exchange).
Roya Ontario Musrtum or GEOLo@y AND Mineratoey, Toronto, Canada: 1 porphyry from Matachewan, Ontario, and 1 magnetite from Zapanola, Ontario, Canada (194654, exchange).
Rozz, Dr. Janis A., Caracas, Vene-
zuela: Snake from Espino, Guarico, Venezuela, collected by A. Klisans (198256).
RozEesoom, Dr. Luoyrp E., Baltimore, Md.: 80 mosquitoes (197633).
RuBBER RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF Mataya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaya: (Through Dr. Arthur Newsam) 18 land mollusks from Johore, Malaya (196527).
Ruiz, Juan. (See Philippines, Republic of the.)
RuuLuMANN, Myron, Sr., Washington,
An envelope canceled from Leonard, Okla., and Carmichael, Miss. (196991).
Rycxman, Dr. R. E. (See School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine.)
RzepowskI, J., México, D. F.: 40 grasses from México (197104).
St. Grorcs, Dr. R. A. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quar antine. )
Sr. THomas Couiecs, Curacao, B. W.
99 plants and 2 helminths from

<<<Page: 99>>>

Curagao collected by Father M. Arnoldo (195630, 196426).
Satter, WiuuiaAmM E., Washington, D. C.: A fresh-water mussel from Oklahoma (195590); approximately 250 fresh-water mollusks from Coyners Springs, near Waynesboro, Va. (197424).
SAMUEL, Mrs. LioneL, New Rochelle, N. Y.: United States flag, ca. 1877-1890 (195644).
SANDERSON, ALBERT E., College Park, Md.: 13 crustaceans from Galesville and the Severn River, Md. (197611).
Santa BarRBARA Botanic GARDEN, Santa Barbara, Calif.: 218 plants collected in México by C. H. Muller (194398); 7 plants collected in Arizona by C. H. Muller (196794, exchange).
SARAWAK, GOVERNMENT oF, Office of Conservator of Forests, Kuching: (Through Col. Harold B. Donaldson) 18 study specimens of timbers of Sarawak (198535).
Sarawak Museum, Sarawak, Borneo: (Through Tom Harrisson) Malayan honey-guide (198510).
Saupri Arasia, Kinepom or, Direction General of Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones, Mecca: 4 stamps from Saudi Arabia (197764).
Saytes, THomas D. (See Interior, U.S. Department of, Geological Survey).
ScaALAMANDRE, Franco, New York, N. Y.: 25 yards olive green silk gimp for Washington parlor chairs (196224).
Scanton, Lt. Joun E. (See Kano, Dr. Rokuro, and Defense, U. S. Department of, Depariment of the Army).
ScHArEFFER, Dr. Boss, New York, N. Y.: 4 Paleocene plants from Fort Union formation of Bay Horse, Mont.
(196615).
ScHEFFER, Dr. Victor B. (See Interior, U. S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service).
ScHELTEMA, Rupotr 8S. (See Chesapeake Biological Laboratory.)
Scurener, Dr. A. (See Naturhistorisches Museum).
ScuHitterR, Dr. Everett L. (See Health, Education and Welfare, U. S. Department of.)
Scuuincer, Evert I., Davis, Calif.: 20 paratype flies from United States (197209).
ScHMip, FrepERIcK C., Lancaster, N.H.: A shrew from Coos County, N. H, (195570).
Scumipt, Dr. Herta. (See Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft.)
Scumipt, Dr. Karu P. (See Chicago Natural History Museum.)
Scuoout or TROPICAL AND PREVENTIvE Mepicinn, Loma Linda, Calif.: (Through Dr. R. E. Ryckman) 10 branchiopods from Monument Valley,
Utah, collected by Marvin Walter (195833).
ScuusBerTH, Dr. Hans, Bonn, Germany: Medal and certificate signed by donor (196689).
ScHwartz, ALBERT, Charleston, S. C.: 49 marine invertebrates from Sullivan’s Island, Charleston County, S. C. (196443).
Scuwarz, H. F. (See American Museum of Natural History.)
Schweitzer, S., Bronx, N.° Y-2<2 carnelians from Watchung, Plainfield area, N. J. (198589).
Scort, Frepreric R., Richmond, Va.: 16 birds from Virginia (197950).
Scripps INsTiTUuTION oF OCEANOGRAPHY, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Leo D. Berner) 5 marine invertebrates from Lower California (198169).
Szaco, Jonn M. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Department of, Public Health Service).
SEALANDER, Dr. Joun A., Jr. (See Arkansas, University of.)
Seaman, G. A. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
SEcELER, Curt G., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Magnetite specimen from Bancroft, Ontario, Canada (187962).
S&MINATRE DE Rimovusx!, Rimouski, Quebec: 44 land and fresh-water mollusks from Quebee Province (196150).
SENCKENBERG Mussrum, Frankfort, Germany: 11 brachiopods from the Devonian of Germany (197347, exchange).
SENCKENBERGISCHE NATURFORSCHENDE GESELLSCHAFT, Frankfort, Germany: (Through Dr. Herta Schmidt) 5 brachiopods from the Devonian of Germany (198289, exchange).
Sennortt, Mr. and Mrs. Jonn N., New City, N. Y.: 29 marine mollusks, 5 fishes, from Gulf of Mexico (195168); 14 fossil mollusks, from Upper Miocene of Sunniland, Fla. (195297).
SEVERIN, Dr. H. C. kota State College.)
Seymour, Mrs. Marra, Adelphi, Md.: 2 pieces American handmade lace (198326).
SHapririo, Jon, Washington, D. C.: 2 dickites from Frostburg, Md., 10 wurtzites from Wittmer (Glenmar), Pa. (196091).
Suarp, Mrs. ALEXANDER, Welcome, Md.: Cape worn by Mrs. Ulysses 8 Grant (195998).
Suaus, Prof. B. M., and WILLIAM Bernier, Amherst, Mass.: Calcite crystal from Shelburn, Mass. (196402).
Saaw, Harry B. (See National Photographic Society.)
(See South Da

<<<Page: 100>>>

Surtton, R. L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of.)
SHEPHARD, GLEN. (See Jennings, Mrs. Lois.)
SHEWELL, Dr. Guy E., Ottawa, Ontario: 37 blackflies from Canada (197522). (See also Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture.)
SuHikaMa, Dr. Toxto. (See National University.)
Sautman, Mr. and Mrs. Wi, Newark, N. J.: Native copper specimen from Cornwall, Pa. (196403).
SinkKanKas, Comdr. Joun, Arlington, Va.: 5 mineral specimens (195965); 4 gems (1964384, exchange).
Srppy, Mrs. Camrutta BREUER, Washington, D. C.: 2 dresses, ca. 1880; wedding lingerie, ca. 1896; dress, coat and umbrella, ca. 1910 (197801).
Skinner, Dr. H. D. (See Otago Museum.)
SteumerR, Dr. H., Leiden, Nether-
lands: 11 South American plants (198325). Stoange, Grorce B., New York,
N. Y.: 4 U. 8. revalued postal cards utilizing Pitney Bowes meters (195918).
SmirH, Austin Pavu (deceased): (Through U. 8S. Department of State) 367 Costa Rican plants (195991).
SmitH, CHaruss F., Boston, Mass.: 2 medals of the clipper Flying Cloud commemorating the 1951 centenary of record voyage from New York to San Francisco in 1851 (197768).
SmitH, Dr. F. G. Watton. (See Miami, University of.)
Smita, Foster D., Jr., Caracas, Venezuela: 66 bird skins, 1 bird skeleton, 1 bird’s nest; 1 scorpion, 1 insect; 35 mammals; fishes; 178 plants; 5 reptiles; 5 crustaceans, from Venezuela (186653).
Smita, Dr. Harry M., Laramie, Wyo.: 386 bird skins and 3 mammals from Burma (195896).
Smity, Dr. J. L. B. (See Rhodes University College.)
Smita, Marion HE. setts, University of.)
Smit, R. O. (See Interior, U. 8S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
SMITHSONIAN INstTITUTION, Washington, D. C.: Collection of archeological objects from the Shoop site, Dauphin County, Pa. (196767, deposit); collection of coins, pocket knife, miscellaneous jewelry, costume accessories, membership badge of Sons of the Revolution, collected by G. Brown Goode (196917, deposit). Photographic Laboratory: Photographer’s head clamp with stand (197348). (See also following funds: Abbott, Canfield, Chamberlain, Dahlgreen, EHickeymeyer, Hughes,
(See Massachu-
272468—53——_7
Roebling, Springer, Walcott.) Bureau of American Ethnology: 7 ethnological specimens from Washington, California, and Amazon Basin; 120 archeological specimens from Texas, México, and Panama (188983); 144 specimens from Georgia including deeply weathered flint artifacts from Macon Plateau, Bibb County, and 1 lot of chips, probably from old Oconeetown, Milledgeville, Baldwin County (197689). Bureau of American Ethnology, River Basin Surveys: Archeological materials excavated by ficld party under Franklin Fenenga at Slick Rock Village, Tulare County, Calif. (197275); bones of 2 species of birds from State of Washington (197886); 613 archeological surface specimens from Eufaula Reservoir, Onapa and Canadian Reservoir Areas, southeastern Oklahoma, collected August and September 1948 by David J. Wenner, Jr. (198525) ; 380 archeological surface specimens from the Eufaula (Gaines Creek) Reservoir, southeastern Oklahoma, collected July and August 1950 by Leonard G. Johnson (198526); 54 archeological surface specimens from Optima Reservoir, North Canadian River, Texas County, Okla., collected August 1950 by Leonard G. Johnson (198527); (through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.) Plesiosaur skeleton and spine of hybodont shark from Graneros formation, Newcastle member, in Keyhole Reservoir area, Crook County, Wyo., collected by Dr. Theodore EH. White in June 1952 (195312); approximately 74 fossil vertebrates from Oligocene and Miocene deposits of Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Montana, 4 mollusks, collected by Dr. Theodore E. White, August 1952 (195942); skeleton, without skull, of fossil reptile from Tongue River member of Fort Union formation in the Fort Garrison Reservoir area, North Dakota, collected by Dr. Theodore EH. White in September 1952 (195943). National Museum, collected by members of the staff: Archeological materials collected by Frank H. Cushing in cave at Cavetown, Washington County, Md., about 1877 (197535); balance of specimen of Upper Devonian arthrodiran fish from Chattanooga shale in Jackson County, Tenn., collected by Dr. David H. Dunkle with aid of Thomas Kehn and Louis C. Conant, March 1958; original portion transferred from U. 8. Geological Survey (197833); 67 small mammals from Great Smoky Mountains National Park by Charles O. Handley, Jr. (197566); 2,434 plants from Cuba, Florida Keys, and various States, collected by E. P. Killip (195295, 195960,

<<<Page: 101>>>

197068); 500,000 Recent Foraminifera from American Arctic, collected by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., David C. Nutt, Capt. R. A. Bartlett, and from the USS Albatross expedition (198412); 378 plants from New York and Vermont collected by C. V. Morton (198529); 1,525 fishes, approximately 519 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 37 lots of plankton, 1 lot of brachiopods, 77 echinoderms, 281 mollusks, 1 plant, from the Blue Dolphin North Atlantic Expedition, collected by Dr. David C. Nutt (195685); 875 plants collected in México by Dr. Ernest R. Sohns (196450). National Museum, obtained by purchase: Cast of Neanderthal skull, Skhil V, Mount Carmel caves, Palestine, made in Peabody Museum laboratories (195292); 9 bird skins from Tristan da Cunha (195294); 1,000 photographs of type specimens of plants (196555); 12 casts of fragments of Lower Miocene Hominoidea (196962); 55 wood samples of New Zealand (197691) ; Lange anthropological dial caliper and case (198081); 188 Persian plants (198186); 14,251 beetles, including type material, from all over the world, comprising Korschefsky collection (198492); 16 casts of remains of fossil humans (198602). National Museum, made in the museum: 2 wooden stools probably made by Charles Luscombe in Anthropology laboratory (196765); plaster casts of the vault and endocranial cavity of Vero (Florida) skull, as reconstructed by Dr. T. Dale Stewart, 1945 (197745) ; 294 photographs of plants (198531); 4 half-scale wooden models and 1 three-dimensional wire diagram illustrating the theory and steps in making an improved moldboard for plows according to the directions given by Thomas Jefferson in a letter written in 1798 (198605). National Zoological Park: 65 fishes (195586); 26 birds (195768, 198559); 23 mammals (198642).
SNIFFEN, Haron 8. Museum.) :
SnypgER, F. M., Baltimore, Md.: 57 miscellaneous flies from United States and Canada (195358).
Snyper, Mrs. Joun H., Washington, D. C.: Pictorial quilt of silk fabrics, ca. 1815 (197748).
SnyDER, WiLBERT, Washington, D. C.: 1 thrush (196210).
SocrEDAD DE CrENcIAS NATURALES La Saute, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Franz H. Weibezahn) 115 decapod and stomatopod crustaceans, 1 rhizocephalan parasite, from Los Roques Islands, Venezuela (195031); (through Sergio Arias C.) 31 marine mollusks from Venezuela (198248).
(See Mariners’
Society OF PuHILaTELic AMERICANS, New York, N. Y.: (Through Ignatz Reiner) Souvenir plate of 1952 New York convention of 8. P. A. (195904).
Soxot, Mrs. Ernest C., Washington, D. C.: Pair of child’s kid slippers, ca. 1880 (195338).
Sotano, Miss Souira, Morristown, N. J.: 2 rodent botfly maggots from New Jersey (195382); jumping mouse from New Jersey (197557).
Sontiman, Dr. A. A., Alexandria, Egypt: 12 roaches from Egypt (198003).
Soper, Eviis Ciuarkes, Franklin, N. C.: 2 rhodocrosite specimens from Argentina (197284, 197959).
Soper, Dr. F. L. (See Rockefeller Foundation.)
Soupzuxiy, Minoru, Urawa, Japan: 2 fresh-water nemerteans (197612).
Souxup, Dr. J., Lima, Pera: 272 plants from Peru (195377, 196040, 197065, 197798).
Sours, Joun A., Sours, C. F. Ray, and Sours, Vireinrta Deru, Neosho, Mo.: (Through Mrs. Dell Sours) Hardtack of the Civil War period (195333).
Sousa, Octavio E., Berkeley, Calif.: 17 copepods from Pacific Grove, Calif. (190999).
Soutn Arrican Museum, Cape Town, South Africa: (Through A. J. Hesse) 2 paratypes of parasitic wasps from South Africa (195190).
SoutH AvusTRALIAN Musrum, Adelaide, South Australia: (Through Herbert M. Hale) 1 gibber bird (195180, exchange).
South Daxota State CoLuEGcE, Brookings, 8. Dak.: (Through Dr. H. C, Severin) 4 North American crickets (198166, exchange).
SouTHERN GEM AND MINERAL Co., El Paso, Tex.: Slab of green moss agate from Texas (196359, exchange); 6 slabs of agate from México (196431).
SouTtHERN MeEtHopiIst UNIVERSITY, Dallas, Tex.: (Through Eula Whitehouse) 200 mosses from Canada and western United States (197413, exchange).
SouTHERN RuHopEsIA, GOVERNMENT oF: (Through High Commissioner) Set of postage stamps released in honor of Cecil Rhodes (197757).
Sowersy, ArtTHuUR DEC., Washington
D. C.: 24 plants from South Africa (198298) : Spence, Hvueu, Ottawa, Ontario:
(Through Frank L. Hess) 3 uranothorite specimens from Monmouth Township, Haliburton County, Ontario (197346). Sperry, JoHN L., Riverside, Calif.: 106 microlepidoptera from Arizona and Peri (195365); 326 microlepidoptera and 2 paratypes of moths from west

<<<Page: 102>>>

coast of United States (195796) ; 29 butterflies in memory of Grace H. Sperry (198424, exchange).
Spitzer, Lt. Cart, San Francisco, Calif.: 50 termites and beetles from Korea (197216).
Spooner, C. 8., McLean, Va.: 2,596 bugs from the United States (196524).
SPRINGER Funp, Smithsonian Institution: 56 fossils from Ordovician of Oklahoma (198142).
SPRINGER, STEWART, Pascagoula, Miss.: 4 foraminiferal samples from Recent of Gulf of Mexico (198280). (See also Interior, U. 8. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
STAINBROOK, Dr. Merritt A., Brandon, Iowa: 128 invertebrate fossils from Devonian Independence shale of Iowa (197545); approximately 200 Foraminifera and 2 foraminiferal samples from Devonian of Iowa (198216); 105 brachiopods from the Devonian and Mississippian of Iowa (198568).
STaANForRD UNIVERSITY, Stanford, Calif.: (Through Dr. George 8. Myers) 2 paratypes of fishes from Santa Rosa Island, Calif. (197014, exchange).
STANNARD, Dr. Lewis J. (See Illinois State Natural History Survey Division.)
STANWELL-FLETCHER, JOHN F., Washington, D. C.: 2 bandicoot rats from northern Baluchistan (195856).
Stark, Haroup H., San Francisco, Calif.: 4 fleas, type material (195797).
STARR, FREDERICK (deceased): (Through Chaplain Frederick W. Brink, USN) 3 Japanese scroll paintings by Hada no Aokimaro (195288).
State, U. S. DEPARTMENT oF. (See Smith, Austin Paul.)
STATON, Mrs. C. L., (See Contas, Philip Michael.) STEARNS, RicHarp E., Baltimore,
Md.: 2 collections of colonial artifacts excavated from refuse pit on Kent Island, Queen Anne County, and from Nottingham, Prince Georges County, Md. (198630).
Sternitz, Heinz. (See Hebrew University.)
STEPHENSON, Dr. T. A., Aberystwyth, Cardiganshire, Wales: Approximately 12 barnacles and 43 decapod crustaceans from Bermuda (195758).
STERN, THomas W., Washington, D. C.: Microlite crystal from Amelia, Va. (198607).
Stewart, Ricnarp H., Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) 2 copper artifacts found on northern shore of Lake Superior near Rossport, Ontario, Canada (196916).
STEWART, r. T. Das, Washington, 1D), Gee Archeological materials collected
by donor and others in Virginia and Delaware (197226).
STEYSKAL, GEorGE. (See Dr. Clifford O. Berg.)
Stickney, Dr. AtpEN P. (See Interior, U.S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Stone, Dr. ALAN, Washington, D. C.: 190 miscellaneous spiders from Connecticut (195806).
Stork, Dr. Harvey E., Northfield, Minn.: 13 Costa Rican ferns (195250).
StTRANDTMANN, Dr. R. W., Lubbock, Mlexery un paratypes of mites from Texas
DonaLpD
(197695).
STRASBURG, W. (See Hawaii, University of.)
STRATTON, Ray F. (See Goodrich Company, B. F.)
Straus, Pau A., New York, N. Y.: 4 silver coins, 2 gold coins, 2’ medals (195298, 197965); 2 coins, 3 medals (198284).
Strecker, Dr. Rozsert L., Seattle, Wash.: 2 fresh-water marine invertebrates from vicinity of Oxford, Ohio (197311).
STRELAK, JospPH S., Waukegan, IIl.: 46 miscellaneous philatelic specimens (196818); 22 meter markings mostly from Gary, Ind. (197759); 60 first-day covers and meter markings (198339).
StrimpLe, Harreuy, Bartlesville, Okla.: 200 brachiopods from Ordovician of Virginia and Mississippian of Oklahoma and New Mexico (195674).
STROMWASSER, JOSEPH, Bronx, N. Y.: 2 quartz psuedomorphs after apophyllite from Trap Rock Quarry, Summit, N. J. (197547).
StrruHauy, L. J., Austin, Tex.: An agate from near Del Rio, Texas (197627); : microclinein quartz from Texas (198189).
SuEssencuTH, Dr. K. (See Botanische Staatssammlung.)
Sunt Ross State Couuece, Alpine, Tex.: 108 plants from Texas (196428).
Sunpstrom, Gustar T. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Sussex ARCHEOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION, Lewes, Del.: 10 lots of colonial artifacts from Russell Site, Lewes, Del.; 1 lot from Willin Site, Eldorado, Md. (198632). _
Swan, Dr. Emery F., Durham, N. H.: 168 crustaceans from vicinity of Friday Harbor, Wash. (188747). (See also Washington, University of.)
SwANsoN, Dr. Lronarp E. hlorida, University of.)
SwEEnNEY, Mrs. Epwarp C., Washington, D. C.: 27 plants from Kenya, Africa (196427).
SypnEy, UNIvEeRsIty or, Sydney, Australia: (Through Dr. David J. Lee)
(See

<<<Page: 103>>>

14 biting midges from Australia
(197779). TALIAFERRO, RicHarD N., Chevy Chase, Md.: Radioptican projector
made by H. C. White Co., Bennington, Vt. (195785).
Tanner, Dr. WitmMER W., Provo, Utah: 2 snakes from Alpine, Utah, collected by Afton Hanson and donor (198252).
TARZWELL, Dr. CLARENCE M. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Department of.)
Taytor, Dwicut W. (See Michigan, University of, and Berg, Dr. Clifford O.)
Taytor, Rosert M., Emporia, Kans.: 5 fossil fish vertebrae from upper Cretaceous, Castle Rock, Gove County, Kans. (195014).
TEMPLE, GRACE LIncoLNn (deceased): (Through American Security & Trust Co.) Ceramics from Holland, the Near East, and China, collected by donor (198587, bequest).
TENNESSEE, UNIVERSITY OF, Knoxville, Tenn.: 4 plants collected in México by A. J. Sharp (196082); (through Dr. Will J. Cloyd) 7 flies, parasitic wasp, from ‘Tennessee (196988).
Texas, University or, Austin, Tex.: A grass from Texas (196451); (through Dr. Clark Hubbs) 33 fishes, including 15 paratypes, from Pacific coast of México (196217).
Texas CoopEeRATIVE Witpiire MvsEuM, College Station, Tex.: (Through Dr. Frank Knapp) 3 fishes, paratypes, from Fulton Beach near Rockport, Aransas County, Tex. (196769).
Texas GAME, FIsH, AND OysTER ComMISSION, Rockport, Tex.: (Through Dr. Howard T. Lee) Approximately 300 marine mollusks from Texas (196518); 135 marine mollusks from off Campeche, México (198509, exchange).
Tuomas, Mrs. CuHristian, Wytheville, Va.: 2 engraved Amelung presentation goblets inscribed “‘George Trisler, 1793” (194316, loan):
Tuomas, Grore, Jr., Idar-Oberstein, Germany: 3 agates from Germany (191813, exchange).
Tuomas, Lt. Witiram J., Norfolk, Va.: Cycle Wizard A camera (198331).
Tuompson, Dr. W. R., Ottawa, Ontario: A parasitic wasp from Canada (196504).
THomssEN, Dick, Berkeley, Calif.: Metacinnabar from near Mount Diablo, Contra Costa County, Calif. (196435, exchange).
THORSTEINSSON, R., Ottawa, Ontario: 4 Silurian brachiopods from Cornwallis Island, Canada (198134, exchange).
North
THRELKELD, Dr. W.L. (See Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station.)
THurmMaNn, Mrs. ERNeEstTINE B., Chiengmai, Thailand: 27 mosquitoes from Chiengmai (196559).
Trssetts, Lt. Tep, Camp Lejeune, N. C.: 14 land and fresh-water mollusks, 2 millipeds, from North Carolina and Vieques Island, Puerto Rico (196526); 7 harvestmen, 13 whip scorpions, 30 miscellaneous insects; 84 mollusks, 25 marine invertebrates, 2 reptiles, 8 earwigs, from Vieques, Puerto Rico (197548); 938 miscellaneous entomological specimens, 1 lot crustacea, 15 mollusks (198598).
Tittotson, RaupH N., Mayport, Fla.: Molar of Pliocene mastodon and tooth fragment of Megatherium from off shore, Brunswick Bar, Georgia (198148).
TILLSON, BENJAMIN F., Takoma Park, Md.: (Through Alexandra Tillson) 50 mineral and ore specimens from Franklin, N. J. (196090, exchange).
Tipron, Lt. Vernon J. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Topp, Ruts, Washington, D. C.: 2 octocorals from Scripps Canyon, La Jolla, Calif. (195941).
T¢sHUSMUSEET, Copenhagen, Denmark: (Through J. Paulsen) 46 lithographs of Danish metal cannon, 16th to 19th centuries (198364, loan).
Toxyo ScrenceE Musreum, Tokyo, Japan: 197 Japanese plants (196212, exchange).
Toxyo University, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Prof. Dr. Takeo Watanabe) 10 minerals from various localities in Japan (197330, exchange).
ToLtMAN, Rue P., Washington, D. C.: 2 decorated coiled baskets, steel bodkin, bone awl, basketry-making materials, obtained by donor in Yosemite Valley, 1902 (195140).
ToMLINSON, JAcK, Berkeley, Calif.: 9 slides of barnacles, including 1 type specimen, 2 shells, from Moss Beach,
alif. (195034).
Tone, Dr. J. A. (See Dr. W.S. Hoffmeister.) TOOTHAKER, CHARLES (deceased):
Petalite from South Africa (197471). Tost1, Louis, Jr. (See Woodridge Stamp Club.) TownsEnpD, Mrs. Eruet N., Miami, Fla.: 60 marine mollusks from southern Florida (195102); 2 marine mollusks from Honduras (195678). Travus, Lt. Col. Roperr. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army, Army Medical Service Graduate School.) Travis, Dorotuy F., St. George’s, Bermuda: A mollusk (195169).

<<<Page: 104>>>

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Bureau of the Mint, Washington, D. C.: 2 sets proof coins, Philadelphia Mint, 1952; 2 each Washington-Carver commemorative half dollars, 1951 and 1952, from Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Denver Mints (194954); 2 Assay Commission medals 1953 (197243); 40 coins, 2 each, from various Mints, issued 1952-53 (197609); 148 counterfeited stamps (197716, deposit) ; 2 sets 1953 Booker T. Washington-George Washington Carver commemorative half dollars from Philadelphia, Denver and San Francisco Mints (198151).
TRECHMANN, C. T., Castle Eden, England: 12 Permian fossils from Durham, England (195587, exchange).
TREWAVAS, Dr. ETHrELwynn. (See British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)
TRumMAN, Mrs. Harry S., Independence, Mo.: Silver lamé and gray satin inaugural gown and gray suede sandals worn by Mrs. Truman in 1949 (192893); a Mother’s pin of the Pi Beta Phi Sorority (197077).
Tryon. Dr. Rotta M., Jr. (See Missouri Botanical Garden.)
TucKERMAN, Dr. WautTerR R., Bethesda, Md.: (Through Dr. A. Wetmore) Chilkat shoulder blanket, obtained by donor at Saxman (Ketchikan), southeast Alaska, in 1909 (198178).
TvEeptT, Rempar. (See United Nations Postal Administration.)
Ucuio, Taxayasu, Tokyo, Japan: Approximately 1,000 Foraminifera from Recent and Tertiary of Japan (198227,
exchange).
Unter, F. M. (See Interior, U. S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
UnMANN, Erticu, Stollberg-Sachsen,
Germany: 5 beetles from Africa (198152).
Unitep Nations Postat ADMINISTRATION, United Nations, N. Y-.:
(Through Bertil A. Renborg) Booklet containing postage and airmail issues of United Nations (195854); (through Reidar Tvedt) 3 first-day covers (196809, 198539).
Unitep Srates Crivin ADMINISTRATION OF THE RyvuxKyus, Okinawa: 38 plants from the Ryukyus collected by S. Sonohara (196878).
Unitep States Lines Co., New York, N. Y.: Scale models of steamships Leviathan and California (196508).
UNIVERSIDAD NacIONAL DE Eva PrERoN, Cuidad Eva Peron, Argentina: 199 plants from Argentina (197829, exchange).
Universipap NacronaL Mayor DE San Marcos, Lima, Pert: 13 plants
from Pert (197277); 115 plants collected in Perit by Dr. M. Octavio Velarde (198478).
UNIVERSITE DE Montrear, Montreal, Quebee: 352 plants from Canada (197536, exchange).
Universit& Lipre DE LI, Lille, France: (Through Dr. G. Dubar) 78 Jurassic brachiopods from Morocco (198144, exchange).
UNIVERSITETETS ZOoLOGISKE MuvsEum, Oslo, Norway: Bird from Gough Island (196410, exchange).
UNKLESBAY, Dr. A. G., Columbia, Mo.: 9 Devonian fossils from the Calloway formation, Warren County, Mo. (195077).
UppsaLA UNIVERSITETS INSTITUTION FOR SYSTEMATISK BotTanrx, Uppsala, Sweden: 104 plants from Sweden (198122, exchange).
Urise Uriss, Dr. Lorenzo, Bogoté, Colombia: 25 plants from Colombia (195578, 196030).
Uranu, University or, Salt Lake City, Utah: (Through H. Edwin Cott) 3 beetles from United States (198340) ; (through Dr. Don M. Rees) 25 flies from United States (198489).
VaipEN, M. G., Rosedale, Miss.: A barred owl (196531).
VALENTIN. Curt, New York, N. Y.: 18 etchings by Ben-Zion, with poster and portfolio, for special exhibition April-May 1953 (197963, loan).
VALENTINE, KimpBatt, Washington, D. C.: 600 marine mollusks from the Ryukyus, Japan (198640).
VauLeRIO, Prof. Manurt, San José, Costa Rica: 8 marine mollusks from Costa Rica (196018).
VANDENBOSCH, K. (See New Mexico Western College.)
VAN DER VEcut, Dr. J., Bogor, Java: 19 wasps from Indonesia (198426, exchange).
Van Etuts, Dr. M. E., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 5 nematode worms found on Chara plants, Huron River (196667).
Vaneaas, P., Acustin. (See Oficina de Control de Especies Postales y Filatelia.)
VaN FLEET, STEPHEN C., Washington, D. C.: 2 19th century transverse flutes (195258).
Van Noten, JEAN, New York, N. Y.: Favor sheet of 8 Belgian Chevrement Achel stamps, 1948, 4 United Nations stamps, 4 Belgian semi-postals, 1952, autographed by the designer, Mr. Van Noten (196783).
Van Scuaick, Mrs. Joun, Jr., Washington, D. C.:2 framed porcelain plaques by L. Solon, 1 porcelain figure group, in memory of donor’s parents, Benjamin F. and Julia T. Romaine (195289).

<<<Page: 105>>>

VARIMEX, Warsaw, Poland: 34 Polish stamps (196805, 198334, 198543).
Vass, Mrs. Lacnutan C., Jr., Luebo, Belgian Congo: Collection of prehistoric stone implements from banks of the Lulua River, Kasai District, Belgian Congo (197998).
VatikiotTis, Sozon, Tarpon Springs, Fla.: 8 marine mollusks from Greece (196375); 59 marine mollusks from off Derna, Libya, North Africa (197729).
Vaucun, Dr. CHartes M. Westport, Conn.: 40 fresh-water snails from the Dominican Republic (198622).
VazquEz, ALBERTO, Arlington, Va.: 38 crustaceans, 17 fresh-water mollusks, from South Dakota (196683, 197315); 1 leech found on a turtle collected in Kenilworth Aquatic Gardens (198475).
VEBER, Rosse M., Washington, D. C.: Chinese and Indian boxes, bracelets, etc., collected in Allabad, India, 1886-— 1890, by Mrs. Samuel Alexander Hill (198524).
VELARDE, N., Dr. Octavia, Lima, Perti: 45 plants from Perd (198271).
Venpitti, A. M., Washington, D. C.: 8 tintypes and photograph of tintype photographer at work (198457).
VERDEBOUT, J. J., College Point, N. Y.: “Society of Philatelic Americans’’ convention cancellation (1958538).
VERGANI, Dr. Franco. (See Instituto de Investagaciones Veterinarias.)
VERRILL, A. Hyatt, Lake Worth, Fla.: Approximately 1,300 photographic negatives and prints of mollusks (197679); marine mollusk from Dominica, B. W. I. (197978); 3 marine mollusks from Cedar Keys, Fla. (198627).
VIRGINIA AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT SrTaTIoNn, Blacksburg, Va.: (Through Dr. W. L. Threlkeld) Holotype of a cestode (196277).
Vocr, Dr. Marietta, Los Angeles, Calif.: 5 slides of cestodes from birds, types of 3 species, collected in Mexico (196985). PBI Sse -
Voxes, Dr. Haroup E. . (See Johns Hopkins University.)
Von Hayex, CuristineE M. F. (See British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)
Vonsen, M., Petaluma, Calif.: A taranakite from the*South Farallon Islands, Calif. (196799); specimen of grahamite from the Great Eastern Mine, near Guerneville, Calif. (195682); xonotlite from Mendocino County, Calif. (195966); a bluish nephrite jade specimen from Vonsen Ranch, Calif. (195997, exchange).
Vork, Witi1AM, Minneapolis, Minn.: 3 concretions containing fossil fish remains, collected 100 miles inland on Sondrestrom Fjord, Greenland (196512).
Vrypacu, J. M. (See Institut Royal des Sciences Naturelles de Belgique.)
Wane, Mrs. Mary Ke t, Fort Lawn, 8. C.: (Through Mrs. Ella K. Ferguson) 1 C. C. Harrison lens (195158).
WAINWRIGHT, STEVEN, Durham, N. C.: 9 mollusks from Beaufort, N. C. (195646).
WaksMAN, Dr. Setman A., New Brunswick, N. J.: 9 historical specimens relating to the discovery of streptomycin (198288).
Watcort Funp, Smithsonian Institution: 17 hippurites, approximately 150 invertebrate fossils, from the Jurassic of the Austrian Alps (195379) ; partial skull of porpoise from Miocene, Westmoreland, Westmoreland County, Va., collected September 1952 by Paris R. Trail, Franklin L. Pearce, Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and David H. Dunkle (195458); 10,000 invertebrate fossils from the Devonian, Mississippian, and Pennsylvanian of New Mexico, and Pennsylvanian and Permian of Oklahoma; 30 limestone blocks from the Permian of Texas, 12 limestone blocks from the Pennsylvanian of New Mexico, collected by G. Arthur Cooper, Arthur L. Bowsher, and William T. Allen during July and August 1952 (195672); 77 Tertiary and 172 Triassic brachiopods from Sicily (196046); 750,000 invertebrate fossils from blocks of Permian limestone taken from Glass Mountains of West Texas (196645) ; 317 Mesozoic invertebrate fossils from Austria (197073); approximately 85 fossil fish, reptile, and mammal specimens from Upper Jurassic, Lower and Middle Cretaceous, and Lower Tertiary horizons in México, collected by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and David H. Dunkle, 1952 (198274); 60 Miocene echinoids from Scientists Cliffs, Md. (198410).
Waker, Dr. E. H., Washington, D. C.: 50 Japanese mosses (195897). (See also Conference of District Flora.)
WaLKER, Ernest P., Washington, D. C.: Flying squirrel (195301).
Waker, THomas, Knoxville, Tenn.: 3 beetles from United States (196887).
Wauuacs, Dr. S. Les. (See Gulf Coast Research Laboratory.)
Warp, Heten L., Knoxville, Tenn.: Type of helminth from Biscayne Bay, Fla. (197190).
Warp, Pour H., Jr., Philadelphia, Pa.: Line strip of 10 stamps, 2¢ imperforate coil, Scott’s #459; General LHisenhower ‘‘America’s Choice’ cacheted envelope; 10 United States stamps and cut-square envelopes (196781); 203 United States Mint stamps (198483, 198545, 198546, loan).
Warmkb, Mrs. GerMAINE L., Mayaguez, P. R.: Approximately 1,600

<<<Page: 106>>>

marine mollusks from Puerto Rico (195765, 196067). Warnock, Frep J., Jr. (See Warnock, Mr. and Mrs. Fred J., Sr.) Warnock, Mr. and Mrs. Frep J., Sr. (deceased): (Through Fred J. Warnock, Jr.) de Forest radio loop receiver, reflex type D-10 (196405). WASHINGTON, State COoLLEGH oF, Pullman, Wash.: 306 plants collected
in Washington by A. Cronquist (196221, exchange); (through Dr. Maurice James) 9 insects from
United States (197430).
WasHineton, UNIVERSITY oF, Field| N
Laboratory Friday Harbor, Wash.: (Through Dr. Emery F. Swan) 6 sea urchins from Friday Harbor (195032); test and spine bases of one sea urchin (195202).
Wass, Marvin L., Tallahassee, Fla.: 45 marine invertebrates from vicinity of Alligator Harbor, Fla. (195980). (See also Florida State University.)
WatTanassE, Prof. Dr. TaxEo. (See Tokyo University.)
Waterman, Acngsss, Bretton Woods, N. H.: 12 shrews from New Hampshire (195132, 1954388); 4 rodents from New Hampshire (195754).
WATERS, A., Dallas, Tex.: A foraminiferal sample from the Pennsylvanian of Texas (198223).
Watkins, Mrs. Lura Woopsipe, Middleton, Mass.: Collection of New England pottery, 17th-19th centuries (196885) ; collection of furnishings, playthings, and child’s clothing used in the bedroom of donor in 1893 (197232).
Watkins, Mrs. W. H., Annandale, Va.: 2 isopods from Massanutten Cavern, Rockingham County, Va. (196061).
Watkins, WiLL1AM N., Washington, D. C.: American typewriter, ca. 1900 (198479).
Watson, Grorce H., Sturbridge, Mass.: Late 18th century window sash from Massachusetts (196519).
Wess, J. H., Rochester, N. Y.: 42 marine mollusks from Japan, Philippines, Australia, and Florida; brachiopod from New Zealand (195971, 198131, exchange).
Wess, Watter F., St. Petersburg, Fla.: Marine mollusk from Texas, land snail from Queensland, Australia (192690).
Weser, Dr. Neat A., Swarthmore, Pa.: 8 bats from Iraq (196386).
WEIBEZAHN, Dr. Franz H. (See Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle.)
Weisz, Dr. Jonn G., Carbondale, Til.: 12 fresh-water marine invertebrates from near Wolf Lake, MI. (194498).
WEISENHAUS, Mrs. L. A., Port Isabel, Tex.: 8 mollusks from Port Isabel (196786, exchange).
Weiss, Kurt Jonn, Guatemala City Guatemala: A cover franked with i¢ “Assistance” and 43¢ ‘‘School”’ stamps (197020).
Wau Joun A. (See Merck and
We tis, Lt. W. H. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy, Naval Medical School.)
WENNER-GREN FOUNDATION FOR ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH, New York, Y., and AmM=ERIcAN INSTITUTE OF HumMANn Pa.rontonocy: (Through T. D. McCown and Dr. Paul Fejos) Cast of Pleistocene human skull and jaw (Skull II) from Hotu Cave, Iran (197187).
WERNER, Dr. Courtney, St. Louis, Mo.: 30 invertebrate fossils from the Mississippian Fern Glen formation near St. Louis (196644, exchange).
WESTERN ASSOCIATION oF Art MvsEuM Directors, Seattle, Wash.: 75 prints for special exhibition November, 1952 (196404, loan).
Westtown ScHoou, Westtown, Pa.: (Through Mrs. Lincoln W. Riddle) 3 marine mollusks from South Carolina and Pacific Ocean (198155).
West VircinrtA UNivrersity, Morgantown, W. Va.: 28 plants collected in West Virginia (197189, exchange); (through W. H. Davis) a mountain solitary vireo (198401).
Wetmore, Dr. ALEXANDER, Washington, D. C.: Christening doll used in mock ceremony in Chimdan, Panamd, attended by donor and members of a Smithsonian scientific party in 1950 (196422); sewing box in form of miniature grand piano (198356); bird skin, 11 birds in alcohol, from various localities (198562). (See also Nasif, Ed, Stewart, Richard H., and Tuckerman, Dr. Walter R.
WEYHE GatuErRy, New York, N, Y.: (Through Martha Dickinson) 19 woodcuts by Antonio Frasconi for special
exhibition May 25-June 29, 1953 (198229, loan).
Wuarton, Dr. Georce W., Jr. (See Duke University.)
WHEELER, H. E., Helena, Ala.: 9 minerals from Terlingua, Tex. (193327); 3 garnet crystals from near Franklin, Macon County, N. C. (195130).
Wuerry, Dr. E. T., Philadelphia, Pa.: 8 ferns from Maryland (195962).
WuitE, FLorence. (See Jerome F.)
Waiter, Dr. Micuart D. J., Austin, Tex.: 45 grasshoppers from North America (198548),
May,

<<<Page: 107>>>

Waits, Dr. Ortanpd E., Boyce, Va.: 60 plants from United States, México, and Burma (195378).
Waitt Faturrs, THE, Washington, D. C.: (Through Rev. Gordon Fournier) Yellow-throated bulbul from Uganda (198296).
WHITEHOUSE, EULA. Methodist University.)
Wuitney, Sgt. Harrison L., Seattle, Wash.: 1 polychaete, 2 echiuroid and 2 sipunculoid worms from Aleutian Islands, Alaska (172968).
WuittEen, Horace L., Houma, La.: 20 fishes, 6 echinoderms, approximately 53 marine invertebrates, from Louisiana coast and off shore Gulf of Mexico (195725).
Wuirtinetron, Dr. H. B. (See Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology.)
W. H. Over Museum, Vermillion, S. Dak.: Miscellaneous bird bones from South Dakota (196034).
Wiecins, Dr. Ina L. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
WILDUNG, FRANK H., Washington, D. C.: Leaf assembly from the earliest Fairchild shutter (197473).
WiLKinson, H. Z., Montgomery, Ala.: 75 fossil oysters from Paleocene strata of Butler County, Ala. (197241).
Wiuttams, Dr. Atwyn, Glasgow, Scotland: 25 Recent brachiopods from Goat Island, Crinan Loch, Argyll, and 4 Silurian brachiopods (196503).
Wiuurams, Dr. Austin B. (See Kansas Ma Grane Museum Natural History.
Wiuurams, Dr. HERMANN W., Washington, D. C.: 3 specimens of beadwork, probably Iroquois, obtained by Lucy Cobb Williams at Niagara Falls, 1857— 1860 (196603, exchange); pair of general’s epaulets of the period 1790-1810, officer’s epaulet ca. 1810, 3 militia epaulets ca. 1850 (197429, exchange).
Wiurams, Dr. JAMES STEELE. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of, Geological Survey.)
Wiuurams, Dr. J. Stewart, Logan, Utah: Cranial shield of Devonian fish from Water Canyon formation, upper Cottonwood Canyon, Bear River Range, Cache County, Utah, collected by donor in 1946 (198032); Easton) 10 type brachiopods from the Mississippian (Brazer formation), Wellsville Mountains, Utah (198191).
Wiuuiams, Dr. Ratpo B. (See Alaska Territorial Department of Health.)
WILuINGER, IsaporH. (See Exspa Committee.)
Wiuuink, Dr. W. (See Fundacién Miguel Lillo.)
(See Southern
(through William | G
Witson, E. O., Cambridge, Mass.: 28 ants from United States (195676).
Witson, Mrs. Mitprep §., Anchorage, Alaska: 4 type copepods from Alaska and 1 from Florida (1971382). (See also Moore, Dr. Walter G.)
Wiuson, Mrs. Wooprow, Washington, D. C.: Gifts presented to Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, as First Lady, when she was in Europe with President Wilson in 1919, and fan presented to her by Queen Elizabeth of Belguim when the Queen came to America in 1920 (197631).
WinneE, Dr. Wititam T., Schenectedy, N. Y.: 30 ferns from Liberia (192828).
Winstow, Leicu, Jr. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Department of the Navy, U. 8. Navy Hydrographic Office.)
WIntTeERS, Dr. Stantey, New York, N. Y.: Miniature gold-plated male human skeleton, with carrying case (196642).
Wisconsin, UNIvERsITY oF, Madison, Wis.: 69 plants collected by N. Fassett mostly in Central Americs (196795, exchange); a cultivated plant (197797).
Wirt, Wiuttam, Arlington, Va.: 2 salamanders from Waynesville, Pulaski County, Mo., 7 snakes, 2 salamanders, from Lake Barcroft and Bluemont Junction, Va., collected by donor in 19521953 (198512).
Witte, Wittiam H. Dr. Otto.)
Wirtuort, JoHN, Harrisburg, Pa.: Necklace from Brule Dakota, Rosebud Reservation, S. Dak., collected by Amos Gottschalt, 1890-1895 (197948).
Wout, Sern, San Francisco, Calif.: (Through Col. George W. Hunter, III) Approximately 70 fresh-water mollusks from Korea (197475).
Wotre, Col. L. R., Kerrville, Tex.: 6 sets of eggs of various species of hawks (194974, exchange).
Woopin, HowaRp E. (See Purdue University.)
WoopkipcE Sramp Cxivus, Washington, D. C.: (Through Louis Tosti, Jr.) First-day cover of “Women in the Armed Forces” stamp (195922).
Wooprine, Dr. W. P. (See Hoffmeister, Dr. W. S., and Kugler, Dr. H.
(See Degener,
Woops, Epaar, Atlanta, Ga.: U. S. Army officer’s uniforms and accessories of the period 1908 (195427). \
Woops, Dr. Loren P. (See Chicago Natural History Museum.)
Woopwick, Kerirn, Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through Dr. Olga Hartman) 3 type polychaete worms from Playa del Rey, Calif. (197845).

<<<Page: 108>>>

Wricut, C. W., London, England: 33 Cretaceous ammonites (195107, exchange).
Wricut, Dr. G. R. (See Commerce, U. S. Department of, Weather Bureau.)
Wricut, Howarp P., Jacksonville, Fla.: Wooden cane presented to Gen. Marcus J. Wright by Adm. Daniel Ammen (196282).
Wricut, Jor A., Glasgow, Scotland: 13 Carboniferous brachiopods from England (195957).
Wricut, L. A., Washington, D. C.: Chinese export bowl owned by Gen. Daniel Morgan, period of the Revolution (198485).
Wricut, Leon M., Enterprise, Fla.: Approximately 120 land and_freshwater mollusks from Florida (197810).
Wu, Dr. Francis, Hong Kong: 50 pictorial photographs by Dr. Wu for special exhibition March-April 1953 (197349, loan).
Wycopzinsky, Dr. Petr, Tucumdn, Argentina: 80 bugs from Argentina (195799, exchange).
Wrmer, Bertram O., Kew Gardens, Surrey, England: 10 prehistoric flint implements from England, collected by donor (197463).
Wyromine, UNIversity or, Laramie, Wyo.: Human skull, without lower jaw, from Keyhole Dam area (198637, loan).
Wyromine GAME AND FisH Commission, Laramie, Wyo.: (Through Dr. Ralph F. Honess) 62 land and freshwater mollusks from Sublette County, Wyo. (195318).
YauLr University, Peabody Museum of Natural History, New Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. 8S. Dillon Ripley) 15 bird skins from northern Indochina (195353, exchange).
Yasumatsu, Dr. (See Kyushu University.)
Y&rPEz TaMAyo, GERARDO, Caracas, Venezuela: 1 rail (bird) from Venezuela (198528, loan).
YoosER, Dr. Hatren, Washington, D. C.: 6 mineral specimens (198484).
Youne, M. Sgt. Grorer M., Dover Air Force Base, Del.: 3 marine mollusks from Alabama (196670).
Zepp, ERwin C. (See Ohio State Archaeological and Historical Society.)
ZETEK, Dr. James. (See Graetz, Dr. Eric.)
ZIMMERMAN, E. C., Honolulu, T. H.: Beetle from Hawaii (195802) 4 flies from Hawaii, including types (197291, indefinite loan).
ZOLLMAN, JOSEPH, New York, N. Y.: United Nations air-letter sheet and 2 postal cards (195913) 3 first-day covers (196808, 198335).
Zoo.ocicat Institute, Kyoto, Japan: (Through Dr. Tadashige Habe) 32 marine and land mollusks from Japan (197839, exchange).
ZootociscH Musrum, Amsterdam, Netherlands: 4 bird skins (196737, 197360, exchange).
ZOOLOGISCHE SAMMLUNG DES BAYERISCHEN STAATES, Miinchen, Germany: (Through Dr. Walter Hellmich) 15 frogs from Séo Paulo and Santa Catarina, Brazil (195726, exchange).
KEIzo.

<<<Page: 109>>>



<<<Page: 110>>>



<<<Page: 111>>>



<<<Page: 112>>>

ae ? a WA

<<<Page: 113>>>



<<<Page: 114>>>

ne sete

<<<Page: 115>>>

, : ; ere ay oe oe : P . 4 i rad a 4 Estat b+ ae

<<<Page: 116>>>

. oy -* wy

<<<Page: 117>>>



<<<Page: 118>>>

