<<<Page: 1>>>

several years, and the outcome has fully justified the time spent upon it. The investigations on the part of the Museum have been conducted by Mr. W. H. Holmes in prehistoric archeology, by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough in ethnology, and by Doctor Hrdli¢ka in physical anthropology.
Doctor Hrdlicka continued his inquiries relative to the effects of preservatives on specimens of the brain, the weight of the brain in correlation with the weight of the body, the proportions of the cranial fosse, and the growth, physiology, and pathology of certain tribes of Indians. He also completed a study of 26 orang crania from Borneo. A number of visiting Indians were measured and facial casts of a few of them were made.
The large Malaysian collection of ethnology from Dr. W. L. Abbott was the subject of investigation by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough, who have in preparation an illustrated descriptive catalog of its interesting specimens. The extensive ethnological material from the Museum-Gates expedition of 1905 is being worked up by Doctor Hough, whose report is well advanced. The latter has also commenced the writing of a bulletin on the distribution of the ancient Indian ruins of the Gila-Salt River region in the Territories of Arizona and New Mexico. The principal investigations in prehistoric archeology were conducted by Mr. Holmes and had reference mainly to the ‘* Handbook” above mentioned. The condition and knowledge ofthe collections in this division were greatly advanced by his thorough and comprehensive researches.
Mr. Maynard, assistant curator of technology, has completed a careful study of the Museum records bearing upon the subject of marine architecture, especially as illustrated by the many models received from the Bureau of Fisheries and other sources. Under authority from the officials of the Departments of War and of the Treasury, an examination of the records relating to the manufacture of arms for the United States Army and United States Navy is also in progress.
Besides the investigations by members of the Museum staff, the collections in anthropology have been extensively consulted by experts from different parts of the country and from abroad, and in greater or less degree have been utilized in many important researches.
A considerable part of the East Indian collections of mammals recently received from Dr. W. L. Abbott was worked up during the year, those from Engano and Karimata islands and the Rhio Archipelago by Mr. Gerritt S. Miller, jr., and those from Banka and Billiton islands by Dr. W. M. Lyon, jr. A number of special contributions, based wholly or mainly upon this material, were published, the more noteworthy being as follows: By Mr. Miller, on Malayan pigs and new forms of bats, on the monkeys allied to Macaca nemistrina, and on two new civets; by Doctor Lyon, on the pygmy squirrels,

<<<Page: 2>>>

and a revision of the slow lemurs; by Mr. Knud Andersen, of the British Museum, on the bats of the genus Rhinolophus.
The Museum collection of bats, which is very extensive and diversified, has received a great amount of attention. Mr. Miller, who has been making a careful study of the entire order Chiroptera, extending over several years, recently brought to conclusion a revision of the families and genera in a manuscript of 583 pages. He also published several papers on nomenclature and new genera. Mr. W. L. Hahn, aid, is working up the genus /lemzderma, as represented in the Museum, and contributed two short papers on bats. Mr. Andersen completed and published several papers on the genera Lhinolophus and [Lipposideros, based partly on the collections here.
Dr. F. W. True prepared a full description of the new fossil sea lion from Oregon, Pontoleon magnus, for publication by the U.S. Geological Survey, and also published a description of a new fossil seal from the Miocene of Maryland. In addition, he prepared an account of the fossil cetacean known as Agorophius for publication by the Smithsonian Institution, and continued work on the ziphioid whales and on a new scheme of biological exhibits.
Doctor Lyon spent some time in bringing up to date a catalog of the type specimens of mammals in the Museum collection; he also published a note on Prolagus, a genus of rabbits, and discovered that the great ant-eater of Central America represents a new species, which he described from a Museum specimen. Among those who made use of the mammal collection in connection with their investigations were Dr. J. A. Allen, of the American Museum of Natural History; Dr. D. G. Elliot, of the Field Museum of Natural History, and the members of the staff of the Biological Survey.
Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, completed the revision of six families of North American birds for his comprehensive work now in course of publication; described 18 new genera and 3 new species of birds, and made other contributions on the subject of ornithology. Dr. C. W. Richmond, assistant curator, added 3,000 cards to the catalog of genera and species of birds, spending some time at the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences for the purpose of consulting publications not to be found in Washington. He also continued his work on the catalog of type localities of North American birds. The birds collected in Sumatra and Borneo by Doctor Abbott were placed in the hands of Mr. H. C. Oberholser, of the Biological Survey, for study. Mr. J. H. Riley, aid in the division of birds, besides assisting Mr. Ridgway with his manual, described 3 new Venezuelan species and a new ground dove from Porto Rico. The collection of birds was consulted by members of the Biological Survey, the committee on nomenclature of the American Ornithologists’ Union, and Mr. Outram Bangs, of Boston. Several papers based partly on this collection by

<<<Page: 3>>>

age Mg oa eye 2 ee oY ee ee i ee oe) © ee ow we ew ow
oe & PF © se YP eS HB we ie @ eh a ee 8 ee eee ee 2 2.8 & #9 Fee FB * * ® @ 8 { ogo + & ® 2 G ® &@ Roe ’
# We ¥ ¥ au 2 tk . co * os 7
es ne

<<<Page: 4>>>

Q a1

<<<Page: 5>>>



<<<Page: 6>>>



<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

wie, “Rego bie

<<<Page: 9>>>



<<<Page: 10>>>

Ae NN OPAL RE POR, TE
RE PoE

<<<Page: 11>>>



<<<Page: 12>>>

COD Pane LS:
ae mew building for the National: Museum -..:..:.:...-.:..-.-----------Smemporianamattersor the years. .. 22s... -220ce 3 Ue ec ees Se ieee fie American Association of Museums ......-..-.2225 22-25. 2Sosensess
Appropriations and expenditures. ............-.--feet Sa imei Shee ee ee REE ed PLO ere 2 ne Se Se SNS es Nia oe ee 2 ees oc ee ace Pee annoticntantip COUCCHONS see. be 2 ee Se Een SE Sk Ss le eee eee wink OM, the Colleemons =. en. Soe Se es ee cede eon ete enn SION CONCEOUNs=2 = 4-2. SA nae on Pe ee ee seen sp ets Reine as ete Ps I es hn ee SRS Se Se he sake oe SRT LCE Cys ie he a ais eS bee SM Supers a wR oe meee we Deaimibution and exchange of specimens..::..-.... 22-2: ss... 2----+--22-0 2 OUT SE PESE Seo SL I eR a Piper anne CH Ee 0 os eae Ses REL eR aes Be ie Sed oa SS Peete tae ete LING ees se es So See ae eee OEE gies ae 5 eB rol eer jan PSE ara SE ee fe a aa res Mine Paro 2S Seen an Be aa e ae S48 Sear e. e ceg sis rue LESUE OSC) Ae re eae eas eer he Societe Sea see REPEL Ee eee eee Ce Di IemrNOM ANG. Shilo a Paes ee ce, i Ft See eae Nbr MOBIC HITED SERIE 3 ee eras ee ae i. a ae ay ee

<<<Page: 13>>>



<<<Page: 14>>>

By Ricnarp Ratueun,
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U. S. National Museum.
In the death of Samuel Pierpont Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian’ Institution, on February 27, 1906, the National Museum, of which he was the keeper by virtue of his higher office, has suffered a severe loss.
Although Mr. Langley’s scientific work lay in the direction of astronomy and physics, his wide range of learning and breadth of view led him to take a deep personal interest in all the varied activities of the Museum, with some of which, moreover, he was especially identified. It was largely through his efforts that the collections relating to the history of time-keeping devices and to standards of weights and measures were brought together, and the art subjects strongly appealed to his esthetic sense.
The extensive collections exhibited in the public halls were in his view not only valuable to the student but capable of imparting information to the man of ordinary education, and in behalf of the people at large he sought the elimination from the labels of such technical matter as was beyond their comprehension. He was also especially solicitous as to the needs of the child, as 1s strikingly illustrated in the so-called children’s room, due to his initiative and direction.
As was to be expected, the manifold duties resting upon the Secretary precluded his taking up the details of management of the Museum, but he was ever active in guarding its interests before Congress and the public. .
The work of this great man will be recorded in another place and at another time. In this connection I only wish to express my sense of personal loss and my deep appreciation of the confidence he bestowed in committing to me the administration of the National Museum.

<<<Page: 15>>>

The inception and history of the Museum have often been discussed in the opening pages of the annual report. Congress, in the act of August 10, 1846, founding the Smithsonian Institution, recognized that an opportunity was afforded, in carrying out the large-minded design of Smithson, to provide for the custody of the museum of the nation. To this new establishment was therefore intrusted the care of the national collections, a course that time has fully justified.
In the beginning the cost of maintaining the museum side of the Institution’s work was wholly paid from the Smithsonian income; then for a number of years the Government bore a share, and during the past three decades Congress has voted sufficient funds to cover the expenses of the museum, thus furthering one of the primary means **for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men” without encroaching upon the resources of the Institution.
The museum idea was inherent in the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution, which in its turn was based upon a ten years’ discussion in Congress and the advice of the most distinguished scientific men, educators, and intellectual leaders of the nation of seventy years ago. It is interesting to note how broad and comprehensive were the views which actuated our lawmakers in determining the scope of the Museum, a fact especially remarkable when it is recalled that at that date no museum of considerable size existed in the United States, and the museums of England and of the continent of Europe were still to a large extent without a developed plan, although containing many rich collections.
The Congress which passed the act of foundation enumerated as within. the scope of the Museum ‘‘all objects of art and of foreign and curious research and all objects of natural history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United States,” thus stamping the Museum at the very outset as one of the widest range and at the same time as the Museum of the United States. It was also fully appreciated that additions would be necessary to the collections then in existence, and provision was made for their increase by the exchange of duplicate specimens, by donations and by other means.
If the wisdom of Congress in so fully providing for a museum in the Smithsonian law challenges attention, the interpretation put upon this law by the Board of Regents within less than six months from the passage of the act can not but command admiration. In the early part of September, 1846, the Regents took steps toward formulating a plan of operations. The report of the committee appointed for this pur

<<<Page: 16>>>

pose, submitted in December and January following, shows a thorough consideration of the subject in both the spirit and the letter of the law. It would seem not out of place to cite here the very first pronouncement of the Board with reference to the character of the Museum:
‘*In obedience to the requirements of the charter, which leaves little discretion in regard to the extent of accommodations to be provided, your committee recommend that there be included in the building a museum of liberal size, fitted up to receive the collections destined for the Institution. * * *
‘*As important as the cabinets of natural history by the charter required to be included in the Museum your committee regard its ethnological portion, including all collections that may supply items in the physical history of our species, and illustrate the manners, customs, religions and progressive advance of the various nations of the world: as, for example, collections of skulls, skeletons, portraits, dresses, implements, weapons, idols, antiquities, of the various races of man. * * * Tn this connexion, your committee recommend the passage of resolutions asking the cooperation of certain public functionaries, and of the public generally, in furtherance of the above objects.
‘*Your committee are further of opinion that in the Museum, if the funds of the Institution permit, might judiciously be included various series of models illustrating the progress of some of the most useful inventions; such, for example, as the steam engine from its earliest and rudest form to its present most improved state; but this they propose only so far as it may not encroach on ground already covered by the numerous models in the Patent Office.
‘**Specimens of staple materials, of their gradual manufacture, and of the finished products of manufactures and the arts may also, your committee think, be usefully introduced. This would supply opportunity to examine samples of the best manufactured articles our country affords, and to judge her gradual progress in arts and manusactures.): ~\y *\\.*
“The gallery of art, your committee think, should include both paintings and sculpture, as well as engravings and architectural designs; and it is desirable to have-in connexion with it one or more studios in which young artists might copy without interruption, being admitted under such regulations as the board may prescribe. Your committee also think that, as the collection of paintings and sculpture will probably accumulate slowly, the room destined fora gallery of art might properly and usefully meanwhile be occupied during the sessions of Congress as an exhibition room for the works of artists generally; and the extent and general usefulness of such an exhibition
«Since the Institution was not chartered in a legal sense but established by Congress, the use of the word ‘‘charter’’ in this connection would seem to be unauthorized. It was not subsequently employed.

<<<Page: 17>>>

might probably be increased if an arrangement could be effected with the Academy of Design, the Arts-Union, the Artists’ Fund Society, and other associations of similar character, so as to concentrate at the metropolis for a certain portion of each winter the best results of talent in the fine arts.”
The important points in this report are, (1) that it was the opinion of the Regents that a museum was requisite under the law, Congress having left no discretion in the matter; (2) that ethnology and anthropology, though not specially named, were yet as important subjects as natural history; (8) that the history of the progress of useful inventions and the collection of the raw materials and products of the manufactures and arts should also be provided for; (4) for the gallery of art the committee had models in existence, and they proposed, pending the gathering of art collections, which would of necessity be slow, to provide for loan exhibitions by cooperating with art academies and societies.
In the resolutions which where adopted upon the presentation of this report, a museum was mentioned as ‘‘one of the principal modes of executing the act and trust.”” The work was to go forward as the funds permitted, and, as is well known, the maintenance of the museum and the library was long ago assumed by Congress, the Institution taking upon itself only so much of the necessary responsibility for the administration of these and subsequent additions to its activities as would weld them into a compact, scientific whole, which together forms a unique and notable agency for the increase and diffusion of knowledge, for the direction of research, for cooperation with Departments of the Government and with universities and scientific societies in America, and likewise affords a definite correspondent to all scientific institutions and men abroad who seek interchange of views or knowledge with men of science in the United States.
Since that early day no material change has been suggested in the general scope of the Government museum; it has only remained to elaborate the details, and the opportunity is now close at hand to realize all that the first Board had in view, since ample space will be available in about another two years.
The development of the Museum has naturally been greatest in those subjects which the conditions of the past sixty years have made most
@ Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress establishing the Institution, and in accordance with the design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will, that one of the principal modes of executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of collections of specimens and objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of a library of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge, to the end that a copious storehouse of materials of science, literature, and art may be provided which shall excite and diffuse the love of learning among men, and shall assist the original investigations and efforts of those who may devote themselves to the pursuit of any branch of knowledge.

<<<Page: 18>>>

fruitful—the natural history, geology, ethnology, and archeology of the United States, supplemented by many collections from other countries. The opportunities in these directions have been mainly brought about through the activities of the scientific and industrial surveys of the Government, many of which are the direct outgrowths of earlier explorations, stimulated or directed by the Institution. The Centennial Exhibition of 1876 afforded the first opportunity for establishing a department of the industrial arts on a creditable basis, and of this the fullest advantage was taken, though only a part of the collections then obtained could be accommodated in the space available.
The department or gallery of the fine arts has progressed less rapidly than the other branches, as anticipated at the outset, but not through any lack of desire or appreciation. In fact, it is interesting to note that the first collection acquired by action of the Regents was a large series of choice engravings, purchased in 1849 at a cost of about $4,000, but now valued at more than ten times that sum. The recent gift by Mr. Charles L. Freer of his important art collection is certain to inspire renewed activity in this direction, as is also the decree of the supreme court of the District of Columbia, announced in the closing days of the year, to the effect that the Smithsonian gallery is in law and in fact the National Gallery of Art, which insures the possession of the Harriet Lane Johnston collection of paintings and other art objects.
Another subject to which much attention has been paid with gratifying results is American history, illustrated by objects representing distinguished personages and important events as well as the domestic life of the country from the colonial period to the present day.
It has been deemed appropriate at this time to present the foregoing brief review of the scope of the national collections, since the time is approaching when they may be given an orderly arrangement and when the subjects least developed from lack of space may have the opportunity for growth. By transferring to the new building, as proposed to Congress, the subjects which are best represented, which have been as a whole most completely classified and can, therefore, be most advantageously exhibited for the benefit of the public, namely, ethnology, archeology, natural history, and geology, the present museum building may be given over to the industrial arts. In certain branches of this subject the collections are already important and extensive, and arrangements are already under way for large and valuable additions. Several halls in the Smithsonian building were originally planned for the gallery of art, and with a moderate expenditure they can be adjusted to suit the requirements of to-day.
With its collections thus distributed between the three buildings, all fireproof and of substantial construction, the National Museum may be expected to enter upon an era of renewed prosperity and usefulness.

<<<Page: 19>>>

While it is the primary duty of a museum to preserve the objects contided to its care, as it is that of a library to preserve its books and manuscripts, yet the importance of public collections rests not upon the mere basis of custodianship, nor upon the number of specimens assembled and their money value, but upon the use to which they are put. Judged by this standard, the National Museum may claim to have reached a high state of efficiency. From an educational point of view it is of great value to those persons who are so fortunate as to reside in Washington or who are able to visit the nation’s capital. In its well-designed cases, in which every detail of structure, appointments, and color is considered, a selection of representative objects is placed upon view to the public, all being carefully labeled individually and in groups. The child as well as the adult has been provided for, and the kindergarten pupil and the high-school scholar can be seen here, supplementing their class-room games or studies. Under authority from Congress, the small colleges and higher grades of schools and academies throughout the land, especially in places where museums do not exist, are also being aided in their educational work by sets of duplicate specimens, selected and labeled to meet the needs of both teachers and pupils.
Nor has the elementary or even the higher education been by any means the sole gainer from the work of the Museum. To advance knowledge, to gradually extend the boundaries of learning, has been one of the great tasks to which the Museum, in consonance with the spirit of the Institution, has set itself from the first. Its staff, though chiefly engaged in the duties incident to the care, classification, and labeling of collections in order that they may be accessible to the public and to students, has yet in these operations made important discoveries in every department of the Museum’s activities, which have in turn been communicated to other scholars through its numerous publications. But the collections have not been held for the study of the staff nor for the scientific advancement of those belonging to the establishment. Most freely have they been put at the disposal of investigators connected with other institutions, and, in fact, without the help of many such the record of scientific progress based upon the material in the Museum would be greatly curtailed. When it is possible to so arrange the investigator comes to Washington; otherwise such collections as he needs are sent to him, whether he resides in this country or abroad. In this manner practically every prominent specialist throughout the world interested in the subjects here well represented has had some use of the collections, and thereby the National Museum has come to be recognized as a conspicuous factor in the advancement of knowledge wherever civilization has a foothold.

<<<Page: 20>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. u
The beginning of the year found only the foundations of the new building in place, and it was not until the latter part of the summer that enough stone had been received to commence the erection of the walls. The first stone to be set, one of the large pieces of the base course next adjoining the northern projection on the east, was laid on August 21, 1905, from which time the construction of the basement walls was continued until their completion, except at the entrances on both the north and south sides. The several rows of massive brick piers required to support the exceptionally broad and heavy floors of the main story, as well as the laying of the steel framework and brick arches of these floors, were also finished, and work was begun in June on the court walls of the main story.
The plans of the building as approved in January, 1904, are being followed, except as to the south central feature, the central projection on the north side, and certain matters of detail, in regard to which it was understood in the beginning that further studies would be necessary to produce the best results. All of the alterations suggested by the architects, however, have been in the direction of securing greater simplicity and more perfect harmony in the several parts of the building. These changes, approved in April last, insure the acquisition by the Government of a structure of exceptional dignity and merit, which will rank among the finest museum buildings of the world. Not least among its qualities is the massive character of the walls, which already count many pieces of granite weighing from 10 to 19 tons apiece, a sufficient guaranty of its stability and permanence.
The failure of one of the quarries to furnish stone within the time agreed upon has been the cause of some delay and has retarded the completion of the building until about two years hence, making the total period required for its erection about four years. Before the close of the year, however, practically all of the important additional contracts had been let, and it is expected that greater activity will prevail hereafter.
A satisfactory conclusion has fortunately been reached regarding the worn-out roofs on the present Museum building, which, it has been found, can be entirely replaced without removing the collections below. Steps have been taken in this direction, and since the walls were very substantially constructed, there is no reason why the building may not soon be placed in even a better condition than it was originally.
With the rapid increase in the national collections, which has lately averaged nearly a quarter of a million specimens annually, the Museum,

<<<Page: 21>>>

as well as the Smithsonian building, has been turned into a veritable storehouse of valuable material. Year by year the exhibition cases have been brought closer and closer together, and great spaces have been shut off from the public view to permit of the shelter of thousands of new accessions, whose importance can only be revealed upon the completion of the new building. In this manner the freedom of circulation through the building has been much curtailed, and its contents have become so crowded that it has been deemed a matter of prudence to close, as far as possible, the great openings of the inner walls, in order to isolate the different sections and prevent the spread of fire, should one occur. This work has already been started, but some time will be required for its completion.
As an additional fire precaution experiments are in progress looking to the fitting up of the storerooms and laboratories with metal cases, having especially in view the requirements of the new building, and the importance of providing absolute protection for the reserve collections.
The collections of the Museum were increased during the year to the extent of about 257,000 specimens. In ethnology large accessions were received from Arizona and New Mexico, the Philippine Islands and Malaysia, and smaller but important ones from the Egyptian Sudan, Austria, and Colombia. The additions in archeology, less extensive but of great interest, came mainly from Japan, France, Switzerland, Algeria, Colombia, Mexico, and Florida. The zollections in physical anthropology were mainly enriched by material from Malaysia and from ancient Indian ruins and mounds in the western and southwestern part of the United States.
The exhibition of smallarms, in the division of technology, has been made the finest in the country by the courtesy of the United States Cartridge Company, of Lowell, Massachusetts, in depositing its valuable collection of 569 pieces, many of great rarity. All of the important typical features in the development of devices for throwing projectiles, from the crossbow to the latest form of gun and pistol, are represented, requiring 38 large cases for their installation. To the collection in aerodromics have been added original examples of the Lilienthal and Hargrave aeroplanes. The manufacture of cut glass in all its stages and the recent advances in the potter’s art in America are illustrated by two beautiful series of examples.
Through the British Indian government the division of historic religions acquired a valuable Tibetan manuscript on Buddhistic theology, and several important Jewish ceremonial objects were added to the Benguiat loan collection.
The historical exhibits were enriched by many objects of interest and intrinsic value, including rich costumes and personal ornaments dating from the beginning of the last century and relics of Capt.

<<<Page: 22>>>

James Lawrence, U. 8. Navy, Gen. Santa Anna, of Mexico, and Gen. José Antonio Paez, the Venezuelan patriot.
Among the objects of art received were a full-length portrait of General Paez, painted by John J. Peoli and donated by the children of the latter, and the beautiful marble bust of Maj. Walter Reed, U. S$. Army, executed by Mr. Hans Schuler and deposited by the Walter Reed Memorial Association.
The accessions in the several branches of biology amounted to about 227,000 specimens. The most important was the donation by Mr. William Schaus of his valuable collection of American Lepidoptera, numbering 75,000 specimens. The Bureau of Fisheries transferred an exceptionally large quantity of fishes and marine invertebrates, including the types of several hundred new species obtained during explorations at the Hawaiian and Philippine islands, on the coast of Japan, in the tropical Pacific, along the west coast of America from Alaska to Panama, and at Porto Rico.
Of mammals, the principal additions came from Malaysia through Doctor Abbott; of birds, from*the Philippines and Guam through Doctor Mearns; of reptiles, from Japan, Formosa, and the Philippines, and of mollusks, from Burma through Doctor Chamberlain. Besides the Schaus collection, the division of insects received 33,000 specimens through the Department of Agriculture, mainly from Texas, Central America, the West Indies, and Japan.
Over 37,000 plants were added to the Herbarium, the greater number having been obtained through explorations in Mexico and from the Department of Agriculture.
The U. S. Geological Survey was the principal contributor in geological subjects, the transfers including large series of rocks and ores from recent surveys in the West, and of many thousands of fossil invertebrates and plants described in recent bulletins. There were, however, many additions of valuable material from other sources.
As far as can be determined, it may be said that the entire series of collections is being maintained in good condition, and every possible resource is directed toward preserving this rich accumulation of over sixty years until its safety can be further insured in more appropriate and secure surroundings. All additions have been carefully recorded, and to the extent that the conveniences permit, all classes of specimens are accessible for reference or study.
The large upper hall in the Smithsonian building, devoted to the archeological collections, so long under repair, has been again opened to the public with an entire revision of its contents, which makes it more attractive and instructive than ever.
Notwithstanding the increased demands upon the staff in routine matters, the amount of research work accomplished in connection with the classification of the collections has been noteworthy. The number

<<<Page: 23>>>

of publications issued during the year was exceptional, comprising 8 volumes, though some of these were begun the year before. They consist of 1 annual report, 3 volumes of proceedings, and 4 bulletins. Of the papers they contain, 81 were actually issued during the year, all descriptive of the collections in the Museum except the administrative reports. The number of copies of volumes and separates distributed was over 100,000.
Of duplicate specimens separated from the reserve collections, over 20,000 were distributed to educational establishments throughout the country and above 17,000 were used in making exchanges.
On December 21, 1905, the directors of several of the large museums in the United States met at the National Museum to discuss the expediency of organizing for America a society corresponding in its aims with the Museums Association of Great Britain. As a result of the deliberations at this time a call was issued for a general meeting, which was held at the American Museum of Natural History, New York, on May 15 and 16, 1906, the attendance being large and representative of museums of art, as well as of natural history and ethnology. An organization was effected by the adoption of a temporary constitution and the election of a board of officers. The publication of some form of periodical in the interest of museums was proposed,
The importance of this movement, so auspiciously inaugurated, can not be overestimated, since the opportunity for interchange of views will surely stimulate the activities of museums everywhere and tend to increase their benefits in behalf of the public, for which they are instituted.

<<<Page: 24>>>

The appropriations made by Congress for the maintenance and activities of the National Museum during the year 1905-6 are given in the following table, which also shows the expenditures under each item for the year and the balances remaining on June 30, 1906, to meet outstanding liabilities.
Object. APBEOpTis: | Expenditures. ee
Preservation of eollections=. -22--.25..2i22-<-sa.c ocesneee $180, 000. 00 $175, 841. 40 $4, 158. 60 TNE AHGMEX UTES. = 220 2. co fen nos. Saves eeee eek 22, 500. 00 19, 843. 02 2, 656. 98 Heating, lighting, and electrical service..........--..-18, 000. 00 16, 603. 25 1,396. 75 eeihicere pms Sher Ries, ek se CNet 15, 000. 00 | 10, 206.52 4.793. 48 Books, pamphlets, and periodicals.-......:.....-...-..--2, 000. 00 1, 262.18 737. 82 REHMOL-WOrkSRHOpS. CLC 122 = Saco .0.5 seh eee cen o= Ss Sasen< 4, 580. 00 4,579.92 .08 POSES Cheers cede as hen ops Soe a cihae les sane Cin asus Hace 500.00 | BOOQROOUPES-eccemciseees LIEN yA INGING, 2.2 <osaccme a es eho se ese ote et 25, 000. 00 24,775. 93 224. 07 LO 22) ies Re ee 267, 580. 00 253, 612. 22 13, 967. 78
The sum of $1,500,000 was also appropriated for continuing the construction of the new Museum building.
The disbursements made during the past year from unexpended balances of appropriations for the two previous years are indicated in the following tables:
From balances of appropriations for 1904-5.
Object. ; Balances ExpendiBalances — une 30, 1905.| tures 1905-6. | June 30, 1906. Preservawoniol COMeCHIONDS: -o2-5 so. oe shoe kas cese ses Fe $6, 645. 34 $6, 074. 04 $571. 30 MPTEN CITE AG TEXUUTCN, 6 ee errs ee pee eee ee Se eC 2,769. 99 2,681.31 88. 68 Hentinevan d lishting. > sss2-t acres nese Sta ae nese eee ase 1, 469. 40 1, 388. 38 81.02 RATT woputiees coy). 5 RSE ee ee Os oe 1, 800. 90 1,493.31 | 307.59 LED ON eTy (CL Co ele eae eee aera SE eS Be ain a 5 965. 96 905. 69 | 60. 27 ~ Rent of workshops, ete -:3.. «222s 5:5 waste beast se Sees ee es ee MOSER Bons teee cot . 08 Transportation of exhibits acquired at the Louisiana Pur. |
GNASETE XS POSULON 2s 2i0=:2 5-3 so dejee eee ements eee ee Ce ee ee 5, 235. 12 4, 063. 79 1,171.33 PTR ENPCANO DINGANE. « oo. << wis cna Se Ree ee ee ae go taleae ass AOL OLS st betta es peo! Mt Ree Sack case osee ss oeien cee seam aceatacsuseteiemns 19, 062.10 16, 606. 52 | 2, 455. 58

<<<Page: 25>>>

iy REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.
From balances of appropriations for 1903-4.
Object. ; Balances ExpendiBalances
July 1, 1905. | tures 1905-6. | July 1, 1906. Preservation of collections. ...-.-.---------------+---------| $198. 99 $188. 13 $10. 86 Furniture and fixtures .....-.--------++--+2222 2-2 e eee e eee | 620d le reece | 6.94 Heating and lighting... .-----=-22:--=s0 -eresesee === nee | paras eect cee tt | 54.48 Building repairs......-------------cececeeeees nero neste 5313 Aal sere eee | 53.84 BOOKS CLG a ete ost ata aaa atte eege o 18. 32 10.71 | eros Purchase of specimens ...-----------------+-++++------200 007 GAR TDN Peete meeee 614. 72 Rent of workshops, ete-..--.-----------------2022 222 rere . 08 |---+222222202 . 08 MOVIN oe ee ee Hens oub ae eer bcosecnia. aacboraecepe Dune eecc | 946. 87 198. 84 | 748. 03
For the operations of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1907, Congress voted the following appropriations in the sundry civil act approved June 30, 1906:
Preservation of collections. $180, 000 | Rent of workshops, etc-------$4, 580
Furniture and fixtures ------20,000 | Bostage 22222 os2 22 = ee 500
Heating and lighting-------18,000 | Printing and binding. ------34, 000
Buildime repairss----==-=----15, 000 TEE
Books, pamphlets, and periodiDota eee eee oases 274, 080 Gals Meets ee seer 2, 000
Besides the regular appropriations, $500,000 was granted for continuing work upon the new building for the Museum.
Comparing the appropriations for 1907 with those for 1906, it will be noticed that the amount for furniture and fixtures has been reduced by $2,500 and that for printing and binding has been increased by $9,000. The latter change was occasioned by the fact that all printing was specifically appropriated for, while heretofore the cost of printing the annual reports was charged against the general fund of the Goyernment Printing Office.
An account of the progress made in the erection of the new Museum building has been given on a previous page.
The subjects requiring most attention under building repairs were the roofs and certain measures for increasing the fire protection. Each section of the Museum building has virtually a separate roof. The rotunda, main halls, courts, corner pavilions and central towers are covered with slate, while the low ranges which adjoin the outer walls are roofed with tin. There is besides a complicated system of gutters and down spouts. The tin roofs have at no time demanded more than the ordinary amount of repair, but most of the slate roofs, which are too flat to justify the use of that material, and the gutters and down spouts have caused endless annoyance and much damage. It had been thought necessary to await the completion of the new building before steps could be taken to replace them. Through the cour

<<<Page: 26>>>

tesy of the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department, however, plans were drawn up during the year under which new tin roofs may be substituted for the slate over the exhibition halls without materially interfering with the collections below. While much of the framework is scarcely strong enough to support slate, it is entirely adequate for the lighter metal covering. It was not until late in the year that the arrangements to this end were perfected, but contracts were let for roofs over the east hall and the adjoining courts, the work to continue during the summer. It is expected that as much, if not more, can be accomplished under the appropriation for 1907.
Some attention has also been given to the gutters and down spouts on the Smithsonian building, which have for a long time been in such bad condition that during the spring thaws a great deal of water backs into the archeological hall, causing injury to the walls and the disfigurement of the painting. Much of the old tin roof on the Museum building was painted, and the old slate on the northwest pavilion was replaced by other of a better quality.
The partitions which separate the halls, courts, and ranges in the Museum building are broken by so many large, arched openings, reaching nearly to the roofs, as to make of the exhibition space practically one large room, about two acres in extent. While the building itself, including these interior partitions, was constructed of fireproof materials, yet the immense collection, now greatly crowded, contains much that is combustible. Every possible means of detecting the occurrence of a fire and of preventing its spread have been introduced, but as an additional and very necessary precaution it has been decided to isolate the different sections as far as possible. The only way to accomplish this effectively is to close all openings, except the few necessary passageways, with some fireproof material, and macite has been selected for the purpose after subjecting it to a thorough test. Much was done in this direction during the year, the following places having been already isolated wholly or in part: The story over the southeast range, occupied by a part of the herbarium and of the collections of the Biological Survey; the gallery in the west-north range used by the library and the division of history; the pueblo court, and the west ‘side of the south hall.
Among other items of repair may be mentioned the entire renovation, including the plumbing, of the toilet rooms in the Museum building; the laying of a broad water table along the north front of the same building to check the seepage of water into the conduits containing the steam pipes and electric wires; the repainting of all the woodwork on the outside of this building; the renewal of the 42 windows in the clearstory of the west corridor of the Smithsonian building, and the repainting of many walls, disigured by water or by time.

<<<Page: 27>>>

The heating plant was kept in good condition, with a few changes and additions. Steam was maintained from October 13, 1905, to May 11, 1906, with a consumption of 725 tons of furnace coal, 43 tons of egg coal, and 324 cords of wood.
A thorough inspection of the electric lighting system was made by an electrical engineer detailed by the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department, with the result of introducing many changes in the plant, to make it conform more nearly to modern methods and to eliminate all elements of danger.
There were on hand at the close of the year 2,336 exhibition cases,
2,279 storage cases, and 1,580 pieces of miscellaneous furniture. Of the additions in ane line during the year, 59 cases were made in the Museum workshops, 151 were purchased, 14 were acquired from the Bureau of American Republics, and 2 from the U. 8. Geological Survey. Besides this above 1,641 standard unit storage cases, insect drawers, and trays were purchased, and a great deal of attention was given in the Museum shops to repairing, remodeling, and refinishing old exhibition cases.
The danger from fire, which is greater in the storage rooms than in the exhibition halls, has led to some experiments in the direction of securing noncombustible furniture for the former, having especially in view the needs of the new building. In providing for the storage of the Schaus collection of Lepidoptera, which fills about 500 mahogany drawers of regulation size, a very satisfactory metal case was obtained on special order, each of a size to hold 50 of the drawers in two vertical tiers. The racks are made of channel and angle iron and covered on the back and top with sheet iron, and with the runners on which the drawers slide of cold-rolled steel riveted to the channel irons on the side. Experiments are in progress looking to the construction in metal of satisfactory standard storage cases and drawers, and herbarium cases. A number of the drawers have been received, but it is still too early to pass judgment upon them. Shelves of iron and glass have also been introduced in one of the laboratories, with excellent results.
The total number of accessions received during the year was 1,516, comprising 257,605 specimens, of which 8,232 were assigned to the department of anthropology, 227,633 to it department of biology, and 21,740 to the department of geology. <A detailed list of these accessions is given in the latter part of this report, only the more important ones being referred to on the following pages.
Anthropology.—Of the 62 accessions received by the division of ethnology, the larger ones, with a single exception, resulted from
explorations by Dr. W. L. Abbott, Dr. Walter Hough, Prof. E. L.

<<<Page: 28>>>

Hewett, and Mr. George W. Ellis. The contributions from Doctor Abbott comprised three collections, the first from the islands of Engano and Nias, off the west coast of Sumatra, with a few specimens from other neighboring localities; the second from West Borneo, and the third from western Sumatra. The Engano collection is especially interesting for the reason that the natives, who are fast disappearing; present marked differences in their arts from the inhabitants of other near-by islands. It consists, besides photographs of the people, of articles illustrating their costumes and ornaments, weapons and trophies of war, canoes and paddles, nets and traps, domestic utensils, baskets, tools, and the products of various industries. The Nias collection, which is also large and valuable, was secured principally in the extreme north and south of the island. It resembles that from Engano, but is especially rich in objects of worship. The material from West Borneo was secured in the Pontianak residency, which includes the waters of the Kapuas River system. This region was thoroughly explored by Doctor Abbott, who visited all the subdistricts. The collection is especially rich in basketry and weapons, but other classes of objects are well represented, such as traps, tools, and other utensils connected with the domestic arts, costumes, musical instruments, and agricultural implements. The collection from western Sumatra, though much smaller than the others, is of much value.
The collection of the Museum-Gates expedition contains about 3,000 specimens. The exploration was conducted by Doctor Hough, in conjunction with Mr. P. G. Gates, of Pasadena, California, who generously assumed the entire expense of the fieldwork. The season extended from June to October, 1905, the region covered lying in the mountains and drainage system of the San Francisco River on the border between Arizona and New Mexico. The material secured consists of pottery, stone implements, basketry, bows and arrows, textile fabrics, ceremonial offerings, etc., from ancient pueblos and caves, the bones of several animals, including the bison, being obtained in the latter. From the pueblo cemeteries the skeletons of former inhabitants were secured, and from one of the caves three desiccated human bodies. A collection of plants was also made.
An exploration of the ruins in Pajarito Park, New Mexico, by Prof. E. L. Hewett, for the Bureau of American Ethnology, resulted in the acquisition of 429 specimens, principally ancient Tewa pottery and bone and stone implements and crania. The collection is especially interesting on account of the class of pottery, which is of a new type, exhibiting a remarkable symbolism, and from the fact that the crania secured were almost all purely dolichocephalic.
The collection from Mr. George W. Ellis, of Monrovia, Liberia, was received as a loan. It consists of 393 ethnological objects from

<<<Page: 29>>>

the Vai-speaking peoples of western Africa (Soudan), gathered by Mr. Ellis while at his post as secretary of the American legation in Liberia. It is rich in specimens of the fine leather work manufactured by these natives and also contains examples of their costumes, pottery, models of canoes, household belongings, and samples of the mineral, animal, and vegetable products of the country.
The Philippine Insular Commission at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition presented 458 specimens, a selection from the immense exhibits of the Commission, consisting of pottery, musical instruments, basketry, agricultural tools, models of houses, transportation devices, costumes, textile fabrics, ete., illustrating the culture of the islands. This gift was in addition to the large collection received from the same source the year before.
Mrs. Jane Friedenwald, of Baltimore, donated to the Museum a collection of ethnologica, numbering 46 objects from the Egyptian Soudan, comprising musical instruments, spears, swords, ironwork, and leather work, of superior interest and yalue. The geographical cabinet of the Benedictine School, Seitenstetten, Lower Austria, sent in exchange, through Prof. P. Josef Schock, an excellent series of 19 ethnological and industrial objects from southeastern Europe. Dr. H. Pittier, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, contributed a collection of 18 ethnological specimens from the Popayan Indians of Cauca, Colombia, consisting of baskets, dishes, personal ornaments, and figurines carved from seeds and painted in colors.
The more noteworthy additions to the division of prehistoric archeology have been as follows: Through Mr. Jean Miguel, of Herault, France, there were obtained in exchange 106 objects, including flint hatchets, knives and scrapers, bone awls, fragments of animal and human bones, etc., mainly from caverns in France and Algeria, besides a number of polished stone implements, fragments of pottery, bronze pins, and a bronze hatchet, from various localities in France and from a pile dwelling at Lake Morat, Switzerland. Mr. Miguel also donated a small collection of the same character. Dr. H. Pittier presented 3 especially fine specimens of earthenware spindle whorls, with incised and inlaid decorations, taken from graves in the Cauca Valley, Colombia, and also a gold spider and fishhook from southern Cauca. A small collection from Bogota, Colombia, consisting mainly of stone spindle whorls, all more or less decorated with incised line patterns, and a number of stone implements from New Jersey, were received asa gift of Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Pope, of Valparaiso, Chile. Thirty-one sarthenware bowls, bottles, effigy vases, tripod vases and figurines, and two stone hatchets, from Ahoma, Sinaloa, Mexico, apparently washed out of an ancient burial ground, were contributed by Mr. E. W. Nelson, of the Biological Survey, who obtained them during his summer field-work of 1905.

<<<Page: 30>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ily
An interesting collection of 58 polished stone hatchets, arrow points, perforators, rice spoons, roughly shaped points of flint, curved ‘‘iewels” or amulets, and a bead of nephrite, from various localities in Japan, were received in exchange from Mr. Y. Hirase, of Karasumaru, Kyoto. Five sculptured stone heads, parts of small statues, from Nagasaki, Japan, said to have been placed over graves, and belonging to the collection of the late Pierre Louis Jouy, were presented by Mrs. Jouy.
The Bureau of American Ethnology transferred a quantity of shell implements and objects, fragments of pottery, many showing incised and stamped decorations, and fossil bones obtained by Dr. Ales Hrdlitka from a shell mound near Osprey, Florida; and the U. &. Geological Survey a large number of mollusks, representing 24 species, illustrating a part of the food of the mound builders, collected at the same place by Dr. T. Wayland Vaughan.
A loan collection belonging to Mr. A. H. Blackiston, of Cumberland, Maryland, comprises earthenware ollas, bowls, efligy vases, etc., with painted and incised decorations, and a number of the highly polished specimens of black ware, stone axes, mortars, pestles, rubbing and polishing stones, carved stone amulets, copper objects, shell beads and pendants, shell necklaces, sandals of yucca fiber, fragments of cane matting, and pieces of human and animal bones from the Casas Grandes Valley and from Cave Valley, Chihuahua, Mexico, many having been obtained from ancient cliff dwellings. The painted pottery is of special interest as representing some new forms and symbolisms. An ax of limonite, found by Mr. J. M. Wulfing while digging a well in Gasconade County, Missouri, is especially noteworthy from the fact that the material is quite light, like chalk, and not of the usual firm, heavy material of which stone axes are made.
The principal accessions in the division of physical anthropology were as follows: Over 100 specimens from Malay, including a number of brains of the orang, gibbon, and monkeys, besides 4 complete bodies of gibbons, presented by Doctor Abbott; an important collection of skeleton parts of white races, from Prof. George 5. Huntington, of Columbia University, in exchange; many crania and other bones, through the Bureau of Ethnology, collected at the ancient Indian ruins in Pajarito Park, New Mexico, by Mr. E. L. Hewett, and in the vicinity of Osprey, Florida, by Doctor Hrdlitka; Indian bones and crania from mounds in North Dakota, donated by Prof. H. Montgomery, of the University of Toronto; many specimens of the same character from the ancient sites of Pueblo Indians in New Mexico and Arizona, through the Museum-Gates expedition of 1905; the brains of a number of animals which had died at the National Zoological Park; nearly 1,000 photographs of Indians belonging to over 30 tribes

<<<Page: 31>>>

in the southwestern United States and northern Mexico from negatives taken by Doctor Hrdli¢ka on the Hyde expeditions, contributed by the American Museum of Natural History. Important material was also received from Dr. H. Pittier, Dr. D. 5. Lamb, of the Army Medical Museum, Prof. J. E. Tylor, of Oxford, Maryland, and Mr. C. Hagenbeck.
The additions to the collections of technology were exceptionally valuable and noteworthy, especially in the section of firearms. This was mainly due to the generosity of the United States Cartridge Company, of Lowell, Massachusetts, in depositing its unique historical collection of small arms, which the company has been assembling for some years. It is the finest and most complete collection of its kind in the country, and its acquisition places the Museum in the front rank in respect to this subject. The collection comprizes 569 pieces, many of great rarity, carefully selected to illustrate the art of gun making from the beginning to the present time. It is systematically installed in 38 mahogany cases furnished by the company and very appropriately constructed to display their contents to the best advantage. All important typical features in the mechanical development of devices for throwing projectiles are shown, from the crossbow through the advancing stages of matchlocks, wheel locks, flintlocks, guns with percussion pill locks, percussion cap locks, and magazine primer locks, to the modern types adapted to the use of metallic cartridges. The development of breech-loading and magazine guns is well illustrated. Many of the pieces are examples of fine artistic work in gold, silver, ivory, and other ornamental materials.
Of the 38 cases in the exhibition 1 is devoted to arbalests, or crossbows; 1 to ancient matchlocks; 1 to Japanese matchlocks and blunderbusses; 2 to flintlock muskets used in the war of the revolution; 1 to guns made by the United States Government between 1799 and 1860; 8 to guns used by the United States Army during the civil war; 1 to guns used by the Confederate army during the civil war; 1 to breechloading rifles; 1 to repeating arms; 1 to magazine and revolving arms; 1 to telescope and sporting rifles; 2 to rifles captured from American Indians; 2 to musketoons, whaling guns, etc.; 3 to fowling pieces; 1 to guns used by historical personages; 1 to foreign flintlocks; 1 to modern military guns, and 5 to revolvers and pistols. In two special cases are a Springfield magazine rifle of the model of 1903, and what is considered the most valuable piece in the collection, commonly called the Cookson gun, dated 1586. The latter appears to have been made by John Cookson, in England, but shows, in features of construction and embellishment, certain Spanish, Moorish, or Turkish characteristics. It is of superior workmanship and is elaborately and richly decorated. The features of most interest are the magazine and auto

<<<Page: 32>>>

matic loading devices. Separate chambers in the stock carry a supply of loose powder and bullets, and these are fed into the barrel by a single movement of a simple lever, which at the same time closes the pan and cocks the hammer of the flintlock. This relic was discovered in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1863, by a provost-marshal and held in the custody of the Government until after the close of the war, when it was sold to a local dealer, finally passing into the possession of the Cartridge Company.
Three interesting pieces have also been added to the collection of arms through the courtesy of the War Department. One is a Springfield musket made in 1800, being the immediate successor of the Charleville model, of which a number of examples were sent to this country by the Government of France just before the war of the Revolution. The Charleville model was employed by the French army and was regarded as the most effective military gun of its time; it was used during a considerable period by the ordnance officers of the United States Army as a pattern for making guns at the Springfield Arsenal, slight improvements being introduced from time to time. The other two are United States magazine rifles of the model of 1903, with improvements of 1905, including the knife bayonet.
The coilection of aeroplanes has received several important pieces. One of these was an example of the so-called air sailer, having no propelling power, but used to support a man in flight from some elevated point to the ground, constructed and used by Otto Lilienthal, a noted German experimenter in this subject, which was presented to the Museum by Mr. John Brisben Walker. Another was one of the flying machines invented by Mr. Lawrence Hargrave, of New South Wales, and donated by the Field Museum of Natural History of Chicago. This example is provided with propellers driven by a compressed-air engine plaeed near the forward end of a central tubular shaft, the latter serving as the compressed-air reservoir, and was tested by Mr. Hargrave in 1891, when it made a flight of 312 feet. Mr. Octave Chanute, of Chicago, so well known for his experiments in aerodromics, has very generously given to the Museum a number of small models and parts of apparatus of his own devising, which are of much historical interest.
The collection of American watch movements has been enriched by several interesting additions, illustrating advancing steps in the industry. Asaloan from Mr. Frederick Leach, of New York, there were received a movement made by Dennison, Howard & Davis, at Waltham, Mass., before the organization of the American Waltham Company, and forming a basis for the work done immediately afterwards; one of the first stem-winding lady’s watches; a collection of typical watch movements made in the United States at an early date, and one

<<<Page: 33>>>

watch movement made by the Palmer Watch Company, of Waltham. Mr. Thomas Featherstonhaugh, of Washington, presented a movyement made by the United States Watch Company, Marion, New Jersey, which marks a step in the history of watch making in the United States, and Mr. J. C. Lindsey, of Ravenna, Ohio, contributed an antique silver watch made by Christian Lehmann, at Vattenuyl, Germany, Supposed to be about one hundred and fifty years old.
Mr. George F’. Cummings, of New York, donated two historical documents relating to the invention of the telegraph, one being an invitation from Professor Morse to the father of Mr. Cummings to witness the operation of his electric magnetic telegraph at a private exhibition in the geological cabinet of the New York City University on January 22, 1838, the other an originalmessage recorded in the characters of the Morse alphabet, said to have been made on the same date.
The gallery of ceramics received 94 pieces, the most interesting addition being a gift from the Libby Glass Company, illustrating the processes involved in the manufacture of cut glass. The materials and the proportion of each employed in the making of the glass are represented. There is a miniature model of the furnace with the clay crucibles in which the glass is melted, and also a set of the tools and a series of objects in glass showing the successive stages of cutting from the plain condition to the finished product, comprising beautiful examples of this art. The Rey. Curt Morhart, of Bavaria, generously donated a clay tablet with green glaze, bearing an allegorical representation of what is said to be the discovery of America by Columbus; it is supposed to have been made between 1520 and 1545. Through the meeting in Washington, during the winter, of the American Potters’ Association, the Museum came into possession of 50 fine examples of the potter’s art, presented by 21 different manufacturers. The association has generously offered to add material to this collection when more space becomes available, and to keep the Museum supplied with the latest noteworthy productions.
Of the additions in graphic arts, two may be mentioned. The first consists of twelve lithographic prints in color, constituting a part of the illustrations in the notable work of the late Heber R. Bishop, entitled ‘‘ Investigations and Studies in Jade.” They were presented by the Forbes Lithograph Manufacturing Company, of Boston, and represent the highest type of the lithographic art of to-day. The other is an original copperplate, one of a series engraved for illustrating ‘* Philoponus,” etc., published by the Benedictine Monastery at Seitenstetten, Lower Austria, in 1621, and obtained in exchange from the Geographical School Museum at the monastery.
The section of photography received, among many other objects, one of the first model ‘‘Genie” magazine cameras, presented by

<<<Page: 34>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. vai
Mr. William E. Schneider, of Washington, and an Ipper’s reliefphotograph, showing an entirely new application of photography, the gift of Mr. Albert H. Walker, of New York City.
To the collection of musical instruments were added an upright piano, with twelve boxes of musical instruments made by Debain, of Paris, about 1850, a bequest from the late Mrs. Ann A. Jeffcott, of New Haven, Connecticut; a collection of old musical instruments presented by Mr. Weston D. Bayley, of Philadelphia, and a harp or musical bow of the type made and used by the natives of the Barbados, from Mrs. Sarah $. Frishmuth, of Philadelphia.
One of the most important acquisitions by the division of historic religions was a Tibetan manuscript presented by the British Indian government, entitled ‘* Prajna Paramita, or Transcendental Wisdom.” It consists of a treatise on Tibetan Buddhistic theology or metaphysics, written in gold characters on the black ground of 363 cardboards, between covers of lacquered wood. To Mr. Ephraim Benguiat the Museum is indebted for the loan of the following objects: An elaborate embroidery of fine French workmanship of the period of Louis XV, representing Joseph in an Egyptian chariot, with scenes of Egyptian life; an old English lamp, with a chain of quatrefoil; eight finely wrought and engraved silver cups used at the Jewish passover meal, and an old Samaritan bronze case of the Torah scroll, inlaid in silver, with Samaritan inscriptions and arabesques. Of special interest for the study of religions is a ‘‘ Pujah” set, consisting of the paraphernalia used in Hindu family worship, showing the private and domestic side of Hindu religious life, obtained from Miss Emily Brainard Ryder.
The historical collection received many accessions during the year, of which the following are the more important: Mrs. Julian James, of Washington, added to her already large loan collection many costumes, ornaments of personal wear, and toilet articles, worn or used by the Bailey-Myers-Mason families from 1812 to 1900. The interest shown by Mrs. James in the welfare of this division may be illustrated by the mention of some of her recent deposits, which comprise gold and silver watches ornamented with jewels; bracelets of diamonds and other precious stones and of carved jet beads; tortoise-shell combs, some jeweled; opera glasses, one with a diamond monogram; brooches, pins, card cases of silver, gold, and amber, a solid silver wash bowl and pitcher handed down in the family from Spanish ancestors; silver cups, jade intaglio scarf pins, a pearl and diamond necklace on gold wire, gold and silver chatelaine bags, fans of pearl and ivory, earrings of gold and precious stones, five rare and valuable East India shawls, parasols of lace and carved ebony, a dress of pina cloth, satin and silk dresses, signet rings; a cross of the Order of Isabella the Catholic and one of the Legion of Honor of France conferred upon members of

<<<Page: 35>>>

the family, commissions and warrants in the Navy, and other documents. Mrs. James also presented the telescope used by Rear-Admiral (then Captain) Theodorius Bailey, U. 5. Navy, second in command of the Mississippi expedition sent by Admiral Farragut on May 1, 1862, to demand the surrender of the city of New Orleans.
Five pieces of silver plate presented by the common councils of the cities of Philadelphia and New York, in 1813, to Capt. James Lawrence, U. S. Navy, of the U. S. S. Hornet, for his capture of the British sloop-of-war Peacock during the war of 1812, were lent by Mr. William Preston Redmond, of New York City. A telescope and goldheaded cane which belonged to Gen. Santa Anna, President of Mexico and commander of the army of invasion of Texas in 1836, were deposited in behalf of the heirs of Gen. Sam Houston, and several uniforms and objects of military accouterment worn by Gen. José Antonio Paez, the Venezuelan patriot who died at New York City in 1861, when minister from Venezuela to the United States, were received as a loan from José Antonio Paez, of Staten Island, New York. It is interesting to note in this connection the acquisition by the Museum of a fulllength oil portrait of General Paez, painted by John J. Peoli, and generously donated by the children of the artist through his daughter, Mrs. Mary Peoli Maginn, of New York. Mr. Peoli was born in New York, October 1, 1825, but when only 3 years old his parents removed to Havana, where the youth began the study of art at the Royal Academy of San Alejandro. At the age of 14 years he gained the first prize, which entitled him to a scholarship at Rome, at which place he studied 8 years under the celebrated painter Minardi. From Rome he went to Paris and Madrid, where he continued his studies, and at the latter city painted the portraits of several members of the royal family. He afterwards resided many years in the United States, but died in Sagua la Grande, Cuba, on July 8, 1893. He was an intimate friend and ardent admirer of General Paez.
The chair used by Gen. U. S. Grant when he signed the terms of capitulation with Gen. R. E. Lee, at Appomattox Court House, has become the property of the Museum through the bequest of the late Gen. Wilmon W. Blackmar, U. S. Army.
The notable table service of 32 pieces, comprising a silver and gilt punch bowl, cups, spoons, a coffeepot, teapot, sugar bowl, milk pitcher, and two massive silver engraved waiters, made by Tomaso and Fernando Zamora, native jewelers and silversmiths of Manila, Philippine Islands, and exhibited at the Louisiana Purchase and Lewis and Clark expositions, was purchased by the War Department and deposited in the Museum.
An interesting collection, comprising 22 pieces of fractional currency, 8 medals, 27 gold coins, 356 silver coins, 312 copper coins, and 6 nickel coins, and including many rare examples from America and

<<<Page: 36>>>

other countries, assembled by Mr. Claas Denekas, has been loaned to the Museum by Miss Gesine Denekas, of Brightwood, D. C.
Mention may here be made of the marble bust of the late Walter Reed, major and surgeon, U. S. Army, an exquisite example of the sculptor’s art, executed by Mr. Hans Schuler, of Baltimore, for the Walter Reed Memorial Association, which, through the courtesy of the association, now occupies a prominent place in the main hall. Although only 51 years of age at the time of his death in 1902, Major Reed had attained rank among the most distinguished benefactors of humanity by his intelligent and conclusive experiments on the transmission of yellow fever, resulting in the establishment of effective means for checking and even eradicating this most dread disease of the American tropics. Scarcely less noteworthy in character and thoroughness were his previous investigations upon the subject of typhoid fever
Biology.—TVhe largest biological accession of the year, and one of the largest donations the department has ever received, was the collection of 75,000 American Lepidoptera, presented by Mr. William Schaus, as elsewhere described. _
The Museum has also continued to be indebted to Dr. W. L. Abbott, one of its associates, who sent three large zoological collections from the East Indies, comprising about 2,600 specimens, of which about 1,700 were vertebrates. They represent investigations by Doctor Abbott on the west coast of Sumatra and the adjacent islands of Engano and Nias; on the coast and islands of eastern Sumatra, and in West Borneo. The Engano and Nias collection consists of 442 mammals, 363 birds, 77 reptiles, and 850 butterflies; the eastern Sumatra collection, of 352 mammals and 95 birds; and the West Borneo collection of 296 mammals and 70 birds. There was also received from Doctor Abbott and Mr. C. B. Kloss jointly a series of 98 mammal skins from the Rhio Archipelago. None of these collections have yet been fully worked up, but many new species have already been discovered, and the contribution as a whole is of exceeding interest and value.
The U.S. Bureau of Fisheries transmitted an exceptionally large number of important collections of fishes and marine invertebrates. Among the former were many type specimens of new species from the Hawaiian and Philippine islands, Japan, and the northwest coast of America. Of the latter, which were comprised in about 3,000 packages, there were, besides much unidentified material, twelve important collections which had been studied by specialists, consisting of about 1,000 lots of specimens and 143 types of new species, belonging to the following groups: Barnacles, schizopod crustaceans, and annelids from Hawaii; isopod crustaceans, echinoderms, and corals from Porto Rico; annelids from Alaska, Japan, and the Great

<<<Page: 37>>>

Lakes; corals, with commensal annelids, and sponges from the region about Panama; and corals from the South Pacific. There were also many mollusks, chiefly from the Pacific Ocean.
Maj. Edgar A. Mearns, surgeon, U.S. Army, contributed about 150 specimens of birds from the Philippine Islands and Guam, including several species new to the Museum, and a large number of rats and shrews from Manila and vicinity.
Among the additions specifically to the division of mammals was a mounted specimen of the handsome broad-horned antelope, Huryceros euryceros, from West Africa, collected by Mr. W. N. McMillan and presented by Mrs. McMillan. This genus had not previously been represented in the Museum. The British Museum transmitted in exchange a collection of small mammals from Borneo, China, Africa, and Australia, consisting mainly of species new to the National Museum; the Copenhagen University Zoological Museum, specimens of the Norwegian wild reindeer and red deer, both of which are becoming rare; and the Civic Museum, of Genoa, 51 specimens of bats, chiefly from South America, but including two Malayan genera. <A collection of small mammals from Java, obtained through the offices of the United States consular agent at Padang, Sumatra, are of special interest as coming from a region from which many species were described at an early date. Among the mammals received from the National Zoological Park was a specimen of Grevy’s zebra, a species new to the Museum. A small but important collection of birds from islands in the Bay of Panama, including specimens of newly described species from the type localities, was obtained from the Hon. J. E. Thayer in exchange.
To the division of reptiles and batrachians there was added, as a gift from the Science College of the Imperial University of Tokyo, a valuable collection from Japan, the Riukiu Archipelago, and Formosa, containing the types of several new forms and species not previously in the National Museum. This division also received a small but interesting collection from the Philippine Islands, presented by Mr. R. C. McGregor; a series of 24 specimens illustrating the development of the spotted-tailed salamander, Spelerpes maculicaudus, the gift of Mr. W. L. McAtee and Mr. A. M. Banta; 16 specimens of rare North American salamanders, including one new species, P/ethodon shermani, from Mr. C. 8. Brimley, and 2 specimens of a new species of horned toad from Mexico, from Mr. R. L. Ditmars.
Beside the material from the Bureau of Fisheries, already mentioned, the division of fishes obtained two important accessions. The first consisted of specimens from Ecuador and Peru, collected by Mr. P. O. Simon; the second of a large number of Mexican species collected by Dr. S. E. Meek and contributed by the Field Museum of Natural History.

<<<Page: 38>>>

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, an associate of the Museum, presented to the division of mollusks a collection of Naiades from upper Burma, which included a fine series of the largest existing species of freshwater mussel. A large series of Japanese shells, contributed by Dr. W. H. Dall, and another similar series obtained by purchase, embrace about 400 species, many recently described. Other noteworthy donations were about 540 species of South African shells, from Lieut. Col. W. H. Turton, of Bristol, England; about 250 Uruguayan shells, from Dr. F. Filippone, of Montevideo; over 1,000 Costa Rican and other Central and South American shells, from Dr. H. Pittier; a number of Mexican land shells from the collection of the agronomic bureau of the Mexican Government, through Prof. A. L. Herrera, and the type specimen of Scala mitchelli, from Texas, from Mr. J. D. Mitchell. The Museum collection of Mexican land shells has become one of the finest in existence.
Among many additions to the division of marine invertebrates, aside from the large transfers made by the Bureau of Fisheries, four exchanges are worthy of special mention, as follows: A collection of 141 specimens of corals, including the types of 13 species, from the Bishop Museum, Honolulu; a series of 22 specimens of corals from the Cape Verde Islands, from Mr. J. Stanley Gardiner; 23 species of Pacific coast bryozoans, from Dr. Alice Robertson, and 14 species of Cumacea, from the west coast of Ireland, from the British Museum.
The number of accessions received by the division of insects was 312, comprising nearly 122,000 specimens. The gift by Mr. William Schaus of his collection of American butterflies and moths, numbering 75,000 specimens, stands preeminent among all the accessions of the year, and adds immensely to the richness and importance of the national collection of Lepidoptera. Two thousand of the specimens came from Mexico, the remainder from North and South America. The Museum was also indebted to the Rey. Robert Brown, S. J., for important gifts of insects from the Philippine Islands, and to Prof. H. Maxwell-Lefroy for valuable contributions of East Indian parasitic Hymenoptera. The collections transferred by the U. S. Department of Agriculture were, as usual, of great extent and value. The following six lots, comprising about 33,000 specimens, are especially noteworthy: 10,000 specimens from Texas, collected by Mr. H. 8S. Barber; 3,000 specimens from Central America, collected by Mr. F. Knab; 10,000 specimens from Guatemala, collected by Mr. E. A. Schwarz and Mr. H. 8. Barber; 5,000 specimens from the West Indies, collected by Mr. A. Busck; 3,000 Japanese insects from the exhibit at the St. Louis Exposition, presented to the Department by Mr. K. N. Ohashi, and 2,000 specimens from Plummers Island, Maryland, collected by Messrs. Schwarz, Clemons, and Barber. Among exchanges may be mentioned 500 moths from the American Museum

<<<Page: 39>>>

Doe § REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1906.
of Natural History; Coleoptera and Hemiptera from New Guinea, through Mr. O. Kronov; and a collection of Hymenoptera containing many cotypes of recently described species, from the Sarawak Museum, Borneo.
The division of plants received 575 accessions, containing in the ageregate 37,751 specimens. The most important accession was the collection made by Dr. J. N. Rose and Mr. J. H. Painter, while detailed for field work in Mexico. It comprises 4,477 specimens, is especially rich in cacti, and includes many rare species from type localities, as well as numerous undescribed species. The number of specimens transferred from the Department of Agriculture was 15,145, of which 13,786 specimens came from the Bureau of Plant Industry, 931 from the Biological Survey, 320 from the Forest Service, and 108 from the Bureau of Entomology. Through exchange with the New York Botanical Garden 1,748 plants, including much West Indian material, were obtained; and by gift from Dr. H. Pittier, 406 specimens, chiefly from Central America.
Geology.—The total number of specimens received by the Department of Geology, exclusive of duplicates, was approximately 21,000, comprized in 164 accessions, of which 91 consisted of rocks, ores, and minerals, 16 of fossil vertebrates, 44 of fossil invertebrates, and 13 of fossil plants. Four hundred and seventy-two lots of specimens were also received from different parts of the country for identification and report.
The division of systematic and applied geology obtained by transfer from the Geological Survey 1,335 specimens of rocks and ores illustrating field work in the Mount Stuart and Tacoma quadrangles of Washington; the gold belt of the Blue Mountains; ‘the Cripple Creek district, and the Needle Mountain Quadrangle of Colorado; the Marysville district of Montana; the Clifton Morenci district of Arizona, and the lead and zine district of western Kentucky. The same bureau also transmitted about 475 hand specimens of native and foreign rocks and a large collection of phosphates, associated rocks, and fossils collected in Florida by the late George H. Eldridge.
Among other noteworthy additions to this division were specimens of Alaskan ores, presented by the Alaskan Commission at the Lewis and Clark Exposition; a collection of rocks and ores from the Philippine Islands, obtained at the same exposition; a fine specimen of phonolite with a telluride of gold from Cripple Creek, Colorado, donated by. Mr. A. B. Frenzel; a large number of specimens of basalt, phonolite, and dolorite collected in Colorado and Wyoming by Prof. k. D. George; a large mass of tin ore from Lincolnton, North Carolina, a gift of the Piedmont Mining Company; 13 samples of volcanic dust from several eruptions of Mount Vesuvius from 1822 to 1867, donated by Prof. J. W. Mallet, of the University of Virginia; a small collection

<<<Page: 40>>>

of rocks from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, presented by Mr. I. C. White, of Morgantown, West Virginia; and a specimen of metallic zine smelted in Washington, District of Columbia, in 1835, said to be the first zinc smelted in America from American ores.
The most important accessions in the division of mineralogy consisted of the type materials of the new minerals coronadite and morencite, and of specimens of the rare minerals emmonsite, spangolite, dioptase, and libenthenite from the Geological Survey, and a unique and remarkable cube of iron pyrites, about 2 inches in diameter, containing numerous small crystals of gold, showing cubic, octahedral, and dodecahedral faces, and some good crystals of argentite, obtained by purchase. Other valuable additions were a specimen of stibiotantalite; a complete individual, weighing 1,170 grams, of the meteorite which fell at Modoc, Kansas, September 2, 1905; a 576-gram mass of the Kernouve meteorite which fell in May, 1867; and a 200-gram slice of a meteorite found at Coon Butte, Arizona, in 1905, the last named being the gift of Mr. D. M. Barringer.
From the Geological Survey there was transferred to the section of invertebrate paleontology a collection of Upper Cretaceous fossils from the Judith River beds of Montana, containing the types and other figured specimens described by Dr. T. W. Stanton in Bulletin No. 257 of the Survey; a collection of type specimens of Miocene foraminifera from the Monterey shale of California, described by Mr. R. M. Bagg in Bulletin No. 268 of the Survey; and about 3,000 specimens of Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian fossils collected in Virginia by Doctor Bassler, under the auspices of the Survey. Dr. A. von Mickwitz, of Eastland, Russia, presented over 2,000 specimens of Russian Ordovician bryozoans; Prof. Charles Schuchert, a large slab containing Helderbergian crinoids from New York State, and Dr. H. Pittier some 500 specimens of Plocene and Pleistocene fossils from Costa Rica. Through exchange much valuable material was also obtained, including collections of Paleozoic fossils from Mr. George W. Stose, of European Mesozoic, and Cenozoic fossils from’ Mr. W. E. Crane, and of European Tertiary fossils from Mr. J. Vaquez, of Pantin, France.
The section of vertebrate paleontology has received but few specimens, since at present it is practically impossible to obtain material of this character without sending collectors into the field, which the Museum’ is not able to do. The following additions, however, are deserving of mention: A nearly complete skeleton of a new species of Sinopa from the Bridger (Eocene) of Wyoming, collected in 1902 by Mr. Walter Granger under the auspices of the Geological Survey, and described by Dr. W. D. Matthew under the name Sinopa granger/; a nearly complete skull of a new genus of musk ox from the Pleistocene of Alaska, obtained by Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the Department of

<<<Page: 41>>>

Agriculture, and described by him under the name Simbos terrelli; part of the skull of a fossil ruminant from the Pleistocene of Zuni, New Mexico, presented by the Department of the Interior, and described and figured by Mr. Gidley, of the Museum, as Lissops zuntensis, and a small collection of fossil reptiles from the Permian of Brazil.
Of the accessions in the division of paleobotany the most important were as follows: Several thousand specimens of Mesozoic plants, being the material described by Ward, Fontaine, Bibbins, and Wieland in Monograph No. XLVIII of the Geological Survey; several hundred examples of fossil wood and plants from the PermoCarboniferous of Sao Paulo and Santa Catherina, Brazil, collected by Mr. I. C. White, and 250 specimens of fossil plants from the Judith River beds of the Upper Cretaceous of Montana, collected in 1903 by Mr. T. W. Stanton and Mr. J. B. Hatcher, and described in Bulletin No. 257 of the Geological Survey.
GENERAL WORK ON THE COLLECTIONS. rs
The primary duty with which the Museum staff is charged is the care, recording, and arrangement of the immense collections, which have lately been increasing at the rate of nearly a quarter of a million specimens annually. This work, laborious under the best conditions, is made especially difficult by the crowded condition of the buildings, the inconvenient location of most of the workrooms, and the fact that the bulk of all the material received must now be packed away fora time in inaccessible storage quarters. The safety of specimens Is never secured by simply finding a place for them. They must be under constant surveillance, for otherwise they are certain to deteriorate and eventually to become valueless. It is, therefore, not only the recent accessions which require attention, but every collection received from the very first that came into the possession of the Museum. Only a general review of the work*of the past year is given here.
In the division of physical anthropology much time was spent in placing the older material, mainly skulls and skeletons, in proper museum order, and in attending to the preparation and preservation of current accessions. This involved the cleaning, identification, cataloging, and arrangement of a large number of specimens, and at the close of the year the entire collection was in as perfect condition as the limited facilities permitted. Some improvements were also made in the accommodations of the laboratory.
The numbering and card cataloging of the extensive ethnological collections, mainly from the Philippines, obtained at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition in 1905, were completed and the objects arranged in storage drawers in the Museum building. In order to make more

<<<Page: 42>>>

accessible the entire reserve collections in ethnology, which have to some extent been scattered indifferent places, partial means have been provided for bringing them together in unit drawers, properly classified and labeled. The segregation and rearrangement of the material representing the Eskimo, the Northwest coast and Pueblo Indians, and that from Africa and the East Indies has been finished, and a finding-catalog of the Eskimo and Northwest coast objects has been prepared. The large Abbott collection has been assembled in one place, and work upon it is still in progress. A part of one side of the Pueblo court has been screened off as a laboratory, and the storage facilities back of the exhibition cases have been increased by the addition of 400 unit drawers.
In the division of prehistoric archeology the routine work was largely directed toward the rearrangement of the exhibition hall, although the care of current accessions occupied the usual amount of time.
Notwithstanding the diversity of subjects falling under the head of technology, and the great extent of the collections, a considerable part of which it is still necessary to retain in storage, the material belonging to this division has been kept in good condition, and much attention has been given to the history and labeling of the different objects. In the division of graphic arts the Cranch collection of many hundred prints was classified and arranged, and full descriptions of each print are being prepared for use as labels. The study series has been assembled in storage drawers back of the exhibition cases.
The collection illustrating Christian ceremonial or ecclesiastical art, comprizing about 930 objects, was withdrawn from storage, numbered, cataloged, and arranged for study purposes.
In the gallery room assigned to the reserve series in history suitable racks have been constructed for the portrait collection and drawer racks for the duplicate specimens. The indexing and cataloging of the portraits were continued during the year.
In the preparatory laboratories of the Department of Anthropology there was no cessation of activity at any time during the year. It is there that all the casting, modeling, and coloring of specimens are done, that the lay figures are prepared for the exhibition cases, and that the poisoning and cleaning of objects are conducted. Nowhere else has the preparator’s art in anthropology been carried to a higher stage of perfection, a fact that will be prominently demonstrated in the halls of the new building.
In the division of mammals the extensive collections of rabbits and marmots and of small to medium sized skulls were rearranged in systematic order, new cases for the former having been constructed at the entrance to the mammal laboratory. In the division of birds some 5,000 duplicates were overhauled and invoiced, The hornbills, now
NAT Mus 1906——3

<<<Page: 43>>>

represented by a splendid collection, the fruit pigeons, and specimens of some other groups, which had been scattered in different places, were brought together in glass-covered drawers placed on top of the tier of storage cases in the crowded laboratory. The recent very large accessions from the Bureau of Fisheries made necessary the construction of a large amount of additional shelving in the basement storage rooms of the division of fishes. Some 12,000 specimens of fishes were cataloged, and many of these were put in final shape and given their appropriate places in the systematically arranged series, special attention being paid to types and other unusually important specimens.
In the division of mollusks, 7,500 lots of specimens were cataloged. Good progress was made toward placing the large Jeffrey’s collection, mainly of British shells, in final museum shape. The identification of all the species is being verified, and the duplicates are being separated from the reserve specimens. The rearrangement of the American land shells, especially from Mexico and Central America, was continued, and that of the families Doliidz and Cassidide was completed. The cataloging of the named specimens of crustaceans, echinoderms, hydroids, bryozoans, aleyonarian and stony corals, and annelids in the division of marine invertebrates was brought up to date, and the extensive collection of echinoderms was rearranged, permitting the recent additions in that group to be assigned their appropriate places.
A very large amount of work was accomplished in identifying and rearranging specimens in the division of insects. To accommodate the Schaus collection of Lepidoptera it was necessary to screen off a corner of the exhibition hall devoted to fishes and reptiles. This temporary laboratory has been fitted up with iron stacks to hold the insect drawers, an initial step toward securing better fire protection for the invaluable collections of this division. As in previous years, the larger number of workers in this division were assistants of the Bureau of Entomology of the U. S$. Department of Agriculture.
In the division of comparative anatomy the entire collection of cetacean skeletons and skulls (except those of the whalebone whales) was assembled and systematically arranged in the storage compartments under the exhibition cases in the southeast range, after being cleaned and cataloged. The fish skeletons and skulls, numbering about 1,500, were treated in a similar manner.
The capacity of the storage cases in the division of plants was increased by about 200 compartments, making the total number now in use above 10,000. The herbarium is reported to be nearly free of pests, and continuous efforts are made to prevent their gaining a foothold. During the year 17,189 sheets of plants were stamped and placed in the regular series, which now contains 385,260 sheets. The number of plants mounted was 10,577. The work of rearranging the

<<<Page: 44>>>

herbarium in accordance with the system of Engler and Prantl was continued, the families covered extending from Acanthacez (No. 266) to Composite (No. 280).
The preparators of the Department of Biology were kept fully occupied. The mounting of mammals for exhibition was practically restricted to small specimens, and the taxidermic work in connection with both mammals and birds consisted mainly in preserving the skins of fresh specimens as they were received, in preparing and making over old skins for the reserve series, and in the constant renovation of specimens in both the reserve and exhibition series to prevent their deterioration. In osteology some 30 skeletons of mammals and birds, including a number of large forms, such as the bison, camel, and tiger, were roughed out and a few skeletons were cleaned. A still larger work was the cleaning of mammal skulls, required for study in connection with the skins. The total number so treated was about 7,000, of which a large portion was from the collections of the Biological Survey. The chief modeler overhauled the collection of fish casts which has accumulated during the past twenty-five years, renovating those required for exhibition, the remainder being made up into sets for distribution to schools and colleges. He also prepared a number of casts of large and interesting reptiles, and cleaned about 1,000 specimens of corals for study and exhibition purposes.
In the division of systematic and applied geology much was accomplished in bringing the reserve collections into better arrangement and classification. Good progress is reported as to the segregation of the record collections transferred from time to time by the U.S. Geological Survey. This required the overhauling of the entire series, including the cleaning of specimens and trays, the verification of labels, the elimination of duplicates, the rearrangement of the specimens in drawers, the preparation of lists and of catalog and bibliographical cards. By the close of the year all of the material from the surveys of the Pacific coast, the Great Basin and the Rocky Mountain States (except some material from Montana, Arizona, and New Mexico), and from Arkansas, Kentucky, Missouri, and Texas, had been gone over, although the lists were not completed. The specimens thus rearranged numbered about 15,800 and filled about 360 large standard drawers.
The purely petrographical material was stored in cases in the westsouth range, the balcony of the same range, and the mezzanine story of the southwest pavilion. Nearly the entire duplicate series of this division was also overhauled, and approximately 12,500 specimens, accurately labeled, were made up into 225 sets for distribution to schools and colleges. Many thin sections of rocks were cut for determinative purposes, and numerous blocks and slabs of stone were prepared for exhibition.

<<<Page: 45>>>

In the section of invertebrate paleontology nearly 40,000 specimens, representing 3,000 species and filling 172 standard drawers, were labeled, cataloged, and systematically arranged. This material belonged mainly to the Rominger collection of Paleozoic fossils from the Mississippi Valley, the work upon which was completed, and to the Ulrich collection, which will require at least another year’s attention. Types of several hundred species have been added to the section since the publication of the type catalog in 1905.
Seven hundred specimens were identified and cataloged in the section of vertebrate paleontology. About 200 specimens of the teeth of Mesozoic mammals were mounted on corks inserted in glass vials for their better preservation, and enlarged pencil drawings and wax models of many minute forms were prepared. Much time was spent in locating and identifying the type material of the earlier specialists in this subject, such as Leidy, Cope, and Marsh. Excellent progress was made by Mr. Gidley in classifying the reserve collection of fossil mammals, the trays containing them being grouped by geological horizons. The same may be said of the work of Mr. Gilmore upon the reptilian forms. Some 636 trays of the Marsh collection, stored at the Emery building, have been roughly classified and labeled, and seyeral hundred specimens of small reptiles have been unwrapped in order to make them accessible for study. In the matter of preparing large specimens for exhibition, which requires much time and skill, the following were worked out and mounted: A complete skeleton of J/erycotdodon gracilis, a skull of Triceratops calicornis, a composite skeleton of a large Dinornis, and a cave bear. The skull of a Miocene rhinoceros from the Marsh collection was prepared for mounting, and the skeleton of a mastodon, exhibited at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, was renovated. All of the type and figured specimens in this section have been assembled, properly marked, and labeled.
In paleobotany the general routine work in connection with the collections occupied the entire time of Doctor Peale.
Owing to lack of space it has not yet been possible to organize an exhibition series illustrative of the subject of physical anthropology, although there is much material on hand suitable for that purpose. A number of plaster busts of American Indians comprizes the entire display at present.
Many changes and improvements were made in the exhibition collections of ethnology. All of the wall cases on the floor of the west hall were rearranged, and the Siamese collection obtained at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition was newly installed. The latter consists of art objects and selections from the textile and agricultural exhibits. The Roumanian peasant group, for which the costumes

<<<Page: 46>>>

were obtained from Baron Lajos Ambrozy de Sedan, of Temesvar, Hungary, was completed and installed in a large case in the same hall. . In the gallery of the northwest court the Patagonian, British Guiana, and Costa Rican objects were rearranged, and the figure cases prepared in the same manner as in other halls. Through the completion of the fire wall in this court the hanging of the collection of South American oil paintings of Indian subjects and the final disposition of baskets and decorative objects became possible.
The extensive repairs in the hall of prehistoric archeology, the large upper room in the Smithsonian building, were completed in 1905, and advantage was taken of the opportunity to entirely reorganize the important collections of this division. It was found necessary to temporarily screen off one end of the room for storage and laboratory purposes, but the exhibition series was opened to the public on January 22, 1906. The work of revision was slow and laborious, the cases and their contents having first to be thoroughly cleaned. ‘The floor cases were rearranged and some new ones added, and many of the less important specimens were transferred to storage, to make room for recent accessions of greater interest to the public. The hall is now in amuch more attractive and satisfactory condition than ever before. Among the noteworthy features which supplement the older collections are engraved stone plates, discoidal stones, bird-shaped and boatshaped amulets, banner stones, and a series of both chipped and polished stone objects of the rarer types; a number of ancient Peruvian textiles belonging to the Pope collection; casts of rare Mexican antiquities, such as drums, knives, jade carvings, and images in clay and stone; the Seton-Karr collection of chipped flint implements from the Fayum district of Egypt, and the Harris collection of archeological objects from Ohio and Missouri. Casts of the Abadiano collection of important Mexican sculptures and casts of carved stone yokes, ** Palmas” stones, bas-reliefs, etc., from Mexico; the Brigham collection of ancient burial pottery, including two very large vases from the island of Marajo, Brazil; and parts of the West Indian collections of Latimer, Gabb, and Fewkes, comprizing stone collars, zemes, masks, hatchets, pestles, beads, and objects of clay, bone, and shell, have been installed in six especially large cases which occupy the center of the hall. A number of originals and casts of large Mexicanand Peruvian bas-reliefs have been hung on the western wall.
The series of casts illustrating the history of classical sculpture has, from lack of better accommodations, been assembled temporarily in the court devoted to the graphic arts, which has thereby become unduly crowded to the disadvantage of both subjects. The pieces, 145 in number, are displayed in large center cases and on pedestals, walls, and screens.

<<<Page: 47>>>

In technology the collection of arms deposited by the United States Cartridge Company, elsewhere described, has added a most interesting and popular feature. Being accompanied by handsome mahogany cases built expressly for the purpose, its installation was readily accomplished. Small additions have also been made to other exhibition series in this division, which is being developed along certain lines as rapidly as possible under the present unfavorable conditions.
The gallery of ceramics received a few additions, notably the exhibition of the Libby Glass Company, illustrating the manufacture of cut glass. There is nothing special to note in regard to the exhibits in graphic arts and medicine, except in the matter of labeling, since the space assigned to these divisions is now fully occupied.
A selection from collections in storage illustrating the principal phases of the doctrines and rites of the western (Roman Catholic) and eastern (Greek Catholic and Armenian) churches was installed. The historical collection received some important objects, and a series of American coins and medals and of Japanese coins, made up from the Capron purchase and a gift from the Government of Japan, were placed on exhibition.
In the Department of Biology the several large mammals mounted for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, and subsequently shown at the Lewis and Clark Exposition, were, after their return to Washington, arranged in the gallery of the south hall, the only place that could be found for them. Although these and the other large mammals from the St. Louis Exposition are among the most valuable additions which have been made to this exhibition series for some time, it has not been practicable to inclose them under glass. A number of other mammals of small to medium size, chiefly from the oriental region, were mounted and installed during the year, and the heads of large game on the wall space above the gallery were renovated and rearranged.
The large series of cases in the Smithsonian main hall containing North American birds were thoroughly cleansed inside. The specimens themselves were also cleaned and put in order. Some progress was made in substituting the new pattern of label holder, adopted the year before, and new labels were printed for the birds of Australia and neighboring regions. The fine exhibition collection of birds can, however, never be shown effectively in the antiquated cases which it now occupies.
Skeletons of a large sulphurbottom whale (of the same species as the cast in the south hall), of an adult little piked whale, of a dodo, and of an African elephant, were added to the osteological series, which was almost entirely relabeled. The cutting off, for storage of the Schaus collection of Lepidoptera, of a part of the exhibition hall devoted to reptiles and fishes, necessitated an entire rearrangement of

<<<Page: 48>>>

these collections, to which were also added the fine casts from the St. Louis Exposition.
Some progress was made toward completing the exhibit of insects, and a case of bryozoans was installed inthe hall of marine invertebrates. A notable addition to the Children’s Room was a copy of the old Dutch painting of the dodo, the original of which is in the British Museum. |
As a new departure, a special case was brought into use for the display of miscellaneous newly acquired objects haying a general popular interest, preparatory to their being installed in their proper places in the various permanent exhibition series. In this case were also placed some small groups of specimens of current interest, such as the cotton-boll weevil and the ‘‘culep,” or Guatemalan ant, and mosquitoes which transmit malarial fever, yellow fever, etc. The smaller specimens were mounted ina new form of glass cell devised by the chief of exhibits.
Comparatively few changes were made in the exhibition collections of the Department of Geology. A large mass of diatomaceous earth was added to the economic series; two cases of minerals and one of hot spring tubes, returned from the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, were installed in the west-south range, and the paper casts of the large Bacubirito and Cape York meteorites were placed on one of the galleries facing the rotunda. The exhibit of fossil vertebrates, which occupies the southeast court, was extensively overhauled and rearranged, and there were added to it a skull of Zriceratops calicornis, a complete skeleton of the small oreodont, Merycoidodon gracilis, skeletons of a small mastodon from Michigan, and a large Dinornis from New Zealand, and the remains of a cave bear from France. In the gallery of the southeast court a screen was built against the east side for the exhibition of ammonites and other large fossil invertebrates, and a beginning was made toward rearranging the fossil plants.
The most important researches carried on in the Department of Anthropology were those made in connection with the preparation of articles for the ‘‘ Handbook of the Indians,” now in course of publication by the Bureau of American Ethnology. This work, far from being restricted to information in hand, has been extensively based on special studies, involving the critical examination of practically all of the Museum collections which relate to the subject. The results, moreover, have been of service not solely in the compilation of the ‘* Handbook,” but have brought about a more thorough knowledge of the collections and a more complete and accurate labeling of many specimens. The task has been one of great magnitude, extending through

<<<Page: 49>>>

several years, and the outcome has fully justified the time spent upon it. The investigations on the part of the Museum have been conducted by Mr. W. H. Holmes in prehistoric archeology, by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough in ethnology, and by Doctor Hrdli¢ka in physical anthropology.
Doctor Hrdlicka continued his inquiries relative to the effects of preservatives on specimens of the brain, the weight of the brain in correlation with the weight of the body, the proportions of the cranial fossee, and the growth, physiology, and pathology of certain tribes of Indians. He also completed a study of 26 orang crania from Borneo. A number of visiting Indians were measured and facial casts of a few of them were made.
The large Malaysian collection of ethnology from Dr. W. L. Abbott was the subject of investigation by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough, who have in preparation an illustrated descriptive catalog of its interesting specimens. The extensive ethnological material from the Museum-Gates expedition of 1905 is being worked up by Doctor Hough, whose report is well advanced. The latter has also commenced the writing of a bulletin on the distribution of the ancient Indian ruins of the Gila-Salt River region in the Territories of Arizona and New Mexico. The principal investigations in prehistoric archeology were conducted by Mr. Holmes and had reference mainly to the ‘* Handbook” above mentioned. The condition and knowledge of the collections in this division were greatly advanced by his thorough and comprehensive researches.
Mr. Maynard, assistant curator of technology, has completed a careful study of the Museum records bearing upon the subject of marine architecture, especially as illustrated by the many models received from the Bureau of Fisheries and other sources. Under authority from the officials of the Departments of War and of the Treasury, an examination of the records relating to the manufacture of arms for the United States Army and United States Navy is also in progress.
Besides the investigations by members of the Museum staff, the collections in anthropology have been extensively consulted by experts from different parts of the country and from abroad, and in greater or less degree have been utilized in many important researches.
A considerable part of the East Indian collections of mammals recently received from Dr. W. L. Abbott was worked up during the year, those from Engano and Karimata islands and the Rhio Archipelago by Mr. Gerritt S. Miller, jr., and those from Banka and Billiton islands by Dr. W. M. Lyon, jr. A number of special contributions, based wholly or mainly upon this material, were published, the more noteworthy being as follows: By Mr. Miller, on Malayan pigs and new forms of bats, on the monkeys allied to Macaca nemistrina, and on two new civets; by Doctor Lyon, on the pygmy squirrels,

<<<Page: 50>>>

and a revision of the slow lemurs; by Mr. Knud Andersen, of the British Museum, on the bats of the genus RAinolophus.
The Museum collection of bats, which is very extensive and diversified, has received a great amount of attention. Mr. Miller, who has been making a careful study of the entire order Chiroptera, extending over several years, recently brought to conclusion a revision of the families and genera in a manuscript of 583 pages. He also published several papers on nomenclature and new genera. Mr. W. L. Hahn, aid, is working up the genus //emzderma, as represented in the Museum, and contributed two short papers on bats. Mr. Andersen completed and published several papers on the genera Lhinolophus and Hipposideros, based partly on the collections here.
Dr. F. W. True prepared a full description of the new fossil sea lion from Oregon, Pontoleon magnus, for publication by the U.S. Geological Survey, and also published a description of a new fossil seal from the Miocene of Maryland. In addition, he prepared an account of the fossil cetacean known as Agorophius for publication by the Smithsonian Institution, and continued work on the ziphioid whales and on a new scheme of biological exhibits.
Doctor Lyon spent some time in bringing up to date a catalog of the type specimens of mammals in the Museum collection; he also published a note on Prolagus, a genus of rabbits, and discovered that the great ant-eater of Central America represents a new species, which he described from a Museum specimen. Among those who made use of the mammal collection in connection with their investigations were Dr. J. A. Allen, of the American Museum of Natural History; Dr. D. G. Elliot, of the Field Museum of Natural History, and the members of the staff of the Biological Survey.
Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, completed the revision of six families of North American birds for his comprehensive work now in course of publication; described 18 new genera and 3 new species of birds, and made other contributions on the subject of ornithology. Dr. C. W. Richmond, assistant curator, added 3,000 cards to the catalog of genera and species of birds, spending some time at the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences for the purpose of consulting publications not to be found in Washington. He also continued his work on the catalog of type localities of North American birds. The birds collected in Sumatra and Borneo by Doctor Abbott were placed in the hands of Mr. H. C. Oberholser, of the Biological Survey, for study. Mr. J. H. Riley, aid in the division of birds, besides assisting Mr. Ridgway with his manual, described 3 new Venezuelan species and a new ground dove from Porto Rico. The collection of birds was consulted by members of the Biological Survey, the committee on nomenclature of the American Ornithologists’ Union, and Mr. Outram Bangs, of Boston. Several papers based partly on this collection by

<<<Page: 51>>>

ornithologists not connected with the Museum were published, as follows: On the Ruff in Indiana, by Mr. R. Deane; on gulls of the genus Larus, by Dr. J. Dwight, jr.; on variation in the hairy woodpeckers, by Mr. H. O. Jenkins; on petrels, by Mr. W. O. Emerson; on certain California birds, by Dr. L. B. Bishop, and on the Pacific night hawk, by Mr. J. Grinnell.
Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians, completed a large work on the herpetology of Japan, which has occupied his attention for several years, and a report on the reptiles collected in Patagonia by the late Prof, J. B. Hatcher; he has begun upon a revision of the North American salamanders, and researches relative to the reptile fauna of the Philippines, for which material is being assembled. He also described several new species. The lizards and snakes of Texas were studied by Mr. Vernon Bailey of the Biological Survey; the chameleons by Mr. Th. Barbour; the garter snakes by Mr. A. G. Ruthven; the sea turtles by Mr. R. E. Coker, and the tailless batrachians by Miss M. C. Dickerson.
Twenty-four papers on fishes, by members of the staff and others, based wholly or in part on Museum collections, were issued or in course of preparation during the year. Seven of these were on Japanese fishes, including the sand lances, thread fishes, giant bass, and sturgeons, by Dr. David Starr Jordan, in collaboration with Mr. R. C. McGreggor, Mr. J. O. Snyder, and Mr. A. Seale. In conjunction with the two latter Doctor Jordan also contributed a paper on fishes from the Negros Islands, Philippines, a list of the fishes collected at Shanghai and Hongkong in 1882-83 by Mr. Pierre L. Jouy, and a list of fishes collected at Tahiti by Mr. H. P. Bowie.
Dr. B. W. Evermann, curator of fishes, conjointly with Mr. Seale, Mr. W. H. Kendall, and Mr. H. W. Clark, described the fishes collected at the Philippines by Doctor Mearns and those from the same islands exhibited at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. He also reported on collections of fishes obtained in Argentina by Mr. J. W. Titcomb, and inSanto Domingo by Mr. A. Busck. Prof. C. H. Eigenmann, of Indiana University, and Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of fishes, completed a paper on the specimens brought from the Amazon River a few years ago by Prof. J. B. Steere, and have begun upon a list and bibliography of all the species known to occur in the same region. Mr. Bean and Mr. McKnew spent some time in a study of the Florida fishes contained in the collection.
Prof. C. H. Gilbert, of Stanford University, spent about two months at the Museum investigating the general collection and reexamining the type specimens of deep-sea fishes obtained in the Pacific Ocean by the Fisheries steamer Albatross. Notes by him and Mr. J.C. Thompson on the fishes of Puget Sound were published. Dr. T. N. Gill, associate in biology, contributed papers on the carp and cyprinoid

<<<Page: 52>>>

fishes and on the life history of sea horses; Mr. E. C. Starkes, a list of fishes obtained in Ecuador and Peru by Mr. P. O. Simons, and Mr. E. W. Gudger, an account of the breeding habits and embryology of the pipe fishes. The ichthyologists of the Bureau of Fisheries made frequent use of the collections as heretofore.
Dr. W. H, Dall, curator of mollusks, completed a report on the land and fresh-water shells collected by the Harriman expedition to Alaska, and several shorter papers on land shells, on Chzton, Callistoma, Crepidula, and Vitrina, and on questions of nomenclature. Work on his revision of the Volutide was continued. In cooperation with Dr. Paul Bartsch, assistant curator, he prepared an extensive series of notes on Japanese, Indo-Pacific, and American species of the family Pyramidellide. Doctor Bartsch has nearly completed his monograph of the same family, and published two short papers on fresh-water shells. Some progress was also made in working up the mollusks collected at the Hawaiian Islands by the Bureau of Fisheries.
Thirty-three systematic and faunal papers and many articles on types of economic interest were prepared by the staff of the division of insects and others who worked in the laboratory. A new genus of Encyrtide from China was described by the curator, Dr. L. O. Howard, who was also the author of a number of economic papers. Among the contributions by Dr. W. H. Ashmead were an outline of a new arrangement of the families and genera of ants, a new classification of the ants of the family Poneridz and of the Driver ants, descriptions of a large number of new genera and species of Hymenoptera from the Philippines and Japan, and of two new Mymaride from Russian Turkestan. He also completed papers on Hymenoptera from the Galapagos Islands, and on Proctotrypidee, Cynipoidea, and Bethytidee from continental South America, and continued his studies on the Braconide.
Mr. D. W. Coquillet, custodian, submitted a new classification of the mosquitoes (Cuculide) of North and Central America, and descriptions of 3 new genera and 15 new species of this family from the West Indies and Central America. A revision of the Hemerobiide of the United States and descriptions of many new genera and species of neuropterous insects and of American spiders and mites were prepared by Mr. Nathan Banks, custodian. Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of Philadelphia, contributed to the Proceedings descriptions of new species of earwigs, of South American grasshoppers, and of several other groups of orthopterous insects from Costa Rica. Mr. F. H. Chittenden, of the Bureau of Entomology, described 13 new species of Sphenophorus, and Mr. Otto Heidemann, of the same Bureau, a new genus and two new species of Rhyngota. Mr. R. H. Johnson, of the Carnegie Institution, studied the specimens of ippodamia and other Coccinellide, in preparation for a treatise on variation of color

<<<Page: 53>>>

in beetles. The Eumenide were examined by the Rey. F. W. X. O’Brien, S. J., who contemplates writing a synopsis of the North American species.
The investigations conducted, in connection with the division of marine invertebrates were extensive and important. The soundings made by the U. 8. S. Vero during the survey for a trans-Pacific cable, rich in specimens of foraminifera, were examined and reported on by Dr. James M. Flint, U. S. Navy, curator of medicine, in ‘*A Contribution to the Oceanography of the Pacific,” constituting Bulletin No. 55 of the Museum. Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of marine invertebrates, studied the anomuran crabs from Hawaii and Japan, and, in cooperation with Dr. Harriet Richardson, made considerable progress toward completing his work on the family Lithodide, including a revision of the genera. Miss M. J. Rathbun, also assistant curator of the division, finished the second part of her monograph on the fresh-water crabs of the world, which was published by the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France. She reported on the brachyuran and macruran crustaceans obtained during the Hawaiian investigations of the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries, began the working up of the decapod crustaceans from several cruises of the steamer Albatross in the tropical Pacific and of the general collection of grapsoid crabs, and prepared a paper on certain New England crustaceans. A monograph of the isopod crustaceans of North America by Dr. Harriet Richardson, collaborator, based chiefly on the Museum collection, was published as Bulletin No. 54 of the Museum. It treats of 369 species, 12 of which, together with 9 genera, were new to science. The same author also contributed a paper on the family Spheromidee and one descriptive of a new genus of Isopoda from the <AdbatrossAgassiz Pacific expedition of 1904-5. Dr. 'T. W. Vaughan, custodian, reported on the stony corals from the same cruise of the Adbatross and from the explorations at the Hawaiian Islands by the Bureau of Fisheries, and, in two papers, described several new species belonging to the genera /ungia, Cenocyathus, and Astrangia.
Reports upon material collected in Hawaiian waters by the Bureau of Fisheries were published during the year as follows: On the starfishes by Mr. W. K. Fisher, on the nemerteans by Prof. W. R. Coe, on the annelids by Mr. A. L. Treadwell, on the hydroids by Prof. C. C. Nutting, and on the medusze by Dr. A. G. Mayer. Descriptions of the parasitic M/yzostoma taken from the crinoids collected on the Japan coast by the same Bureau were published by Mr. J. F. McClendon, who also examined the general collection of crinoids in the Museum for additional specimens. The following papers based upon material from A/batross explorations in the tropical Pacific under the direction of Dr. Alexander Agassiz, in addition to those mentioned above, were

<<<Page: 54>>>

published by the Museum of Comparative Zoology, namely: On the starfishes collected during the cruise of 1899-1900, by Dr. H. Ludwig; on the pelagic tunicates from the same cruise, by Prof. W. E. Ritter and Miss Edith S. Byxbee; and on a remarkable new genus of Cystoflagellata from the cruise of 1904-5, by Dr. Charles A. Kofoid.
In accordance with an arrangement between the Bureau of Fisheries and Doctor Agassiz, the entire Museum collection of deep-water sponges from the Pacific Ocean, mainly obtained in the course of investigations by the steamer A/batross, were sent to Dr. R. yon Lendenfeld and Dr. F. Urban, of Prague, Austria, for working up in connection with other material from the Bureau of Fisheries and the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Doctor Agassiz has generously agreed to assume the expenses attendant upon the preparation and publication of this extensive work, which will occupy several years. The equally large and important collection of starfishes from the North Pacific Ocean and Bering Sea, but including the shore and shallow-water species as well as those from greater depths, was turned over to Mr. W. K. Fisher, of Stanford University, for study and report. To Dr. C. B. Wilson, of Westfield, Massachusetts, whose reports on the Argulide and Caligine have already been published, were sent the specimens belonging to the other groups of parasitic copepod crustaceans. The Museum collection of barnacles is being studied by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, of the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences; the bryozoans from Bering Sea and other northern waters, by Dr. H. Kluge, of the Museum fiir Naturkunde, Berlin; and the extensive collection of foraminifera from the Pacific deep sea, by Mr. Joseph A. Cushman, of the Boston Society of Natural History. The collection last mentioned, resulting chiefly from soundings and dredgings by the steamer A/datross and cable surveys by the United States Navy, is exceedingly rich and diversified.
Eleven contributions by the staff of the division of plants were published during the year. Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator, was chiefly occupied in working up the Mexican plants, collected mainly by himself in recent years. He prepared two papers on this material in conjunction with Mr. J. H. Painter, and described certain umbelliferous plants from Georgia. In cooperation with Dr. N. L. Britton, director of the New York Botanical Garden, he has begun upon a monograph of the cactus group. Capt. John Donnell Smith, associate in botany, described 23 new Central American species, and identified several hundred Guatemalan plants in the Herbarium, with the assistance of Baron von Piirckheim. He also completed for the press the eighth part of his enumeration of the plants of Guatemala. Mr. W. R. Maxon, assistant curator, prepared six papers on ferns, in which were described new species from Mexico, Guatemala, Porto Rico, and

<<<Page: 55>>>

Alabama; and a collection of yellow water lilies, assembled by Mr. G. S. Miller, jr., was made the subject of investigations by Mr. Painter, aid in the division. Prof. EK. L. Morris, of the Washington Central High School, continued his studies on the genus Plantago, and the botanists of the Department of Agriculture made constant use of the Herbarium.
Four meteorites from Modoc, Kansas; Coon Butte, Arizona; Hendersonville, North Carolina, and Selma, Alabama, were the subject of study by Prof. George P. Merrill, head curator of geology, who completed descriptions of the two first mentioned. A contribution to the History of American Geology, on which he had been engaged for several years, was published in April as an appendix to the Annual Report of the Museum for 1904. Mr. Wirt Tassin, assistant curator of mineralogy, conducted investigations on meteorites in the collection with special reference to establishing the relations between structure and composition, which resulted in the discovery of a graphitic iron not heretofore recognized as occurring in meteorites, and in confirming the conclusion that much of the so-called chromite of meteorites is not true chromite but rather a spinel. Forty-two analyses led to the recognition of four minerals new to the collection.
Dr. R. S. Bassler, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleontology, completed under the auspices of the U. S. Geological Survey, a paper on the stratigraphy of the Valley of Virginia, with especial reference to the cement resources of the region, and a monograph on the bryozoan fauna of the Rochester shales. He has begun upon a study of the Ordovician bryozoans of Russia.
Mr. Gidley, of the section of vertebrate paleontology, made a study of tooth-cusp development in Mesozoic mammals, described a new species of fossil raccoon and a new genus and species of musk-ox, and finished his work on Miocene horses, begun at the American Museum of Natural History. He has now in preparation a revision of the Mesozoic mammals, based primarily upon the Museum collection. Mr. Gilmore, of the same section, described a recently mounted skeleton of the oreodont, Merycoidodon gracilis, and commenced the writing of a new description of the type specimens of J/orosaurus agilis Marsh. He was also the author of several other papers relating to the collection of fossil reptiles. Both Mr. Gilmore and Mr. Gidley spent much time in revising the manuscript of a type catalog of the fossil vertebrates in the collection of the Museum, which will soon be ready for printing.
Extensive researches in paleobotany were carried on by Mr. David White and Dr. F. H. Knowlton, of the U. S. Geological Survey, who are also in charge of the Museum collection of fossil plants.

<<<Page: 56>>>

The principal exploration of the year under the Department of Anthropology was conducted by Doctor Hough, assistant curator of ethnology, in conjunction with Mr. P. G. Gates, of Pasadena, California, through whose generosity the field expenses were paid, and was a continuation of the work begun in 1901 under the same conditions. The expedition started from Clifton, Arizona, on June 7, 1905, and terminated at Gallup, New Mexico, about four months later, having covered a large extent of country, touching upon the boundaries of earlier surveys by Doctor Hough. The area examined lies south of the great divide which sharply separates Arizona into two provinces, and is especially interesting on account of the presence of numerous cliff dwellings resembling those in the northern part of the Pueblo sphere. It contains, like other sections, numerous pueblo sites, but especially attractive are the ancient caves used for habitations and ceremonial purposes. The object of the expedition was to ascertain the nature of the peoples, their diffusion under varying conditions of environment due to food supply, elevation, intrusion from other areas, migrations, etc. With this view a study of the animal, vegetal, and climatic environment was made and collections were secured from the various sites for the purpose of comparative studies. Since the natural diffusion of population is along water courses, the work was mainly confined to streams. Of these, the San Francisco with its branches, the Blue, the Tulerosa, and the Apache were thoroughly investigated. As the region had previously been untouched by scientific exploration, the results of the expedition are very important. About 3,000 specimens were obtained and shipped to Washington.
In February, 1906, under the auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology, Doctor Hrdlitka, assistant curator of physical anthropology, in company with Dr. T. W. Vaughan, of the U.S. Geological Survey, spent about two weeks at Osprey, Florida, for the purpose of examining the localities where human fossil bones had been discovered, and of ascertaining the local conditions favoring fossilization. Osteological remains of Indians of more recent date were also obtained for comparison with the fossil specimens. Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of Ethnology, made explorations in the Vera Cruz district of Mexico, of which a report is in press. The valuable collection he obtained is referred to in another place.
Of private expeditions from which collections have been received, reference may be made to the work of Doctor Abbott in the islands of Engano and Nias and along the northern branch of the Great Kapuas River, in western Borneo; of Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. 5. Army, in connection with military operations in the Philippines: and of Mr. A. H.

<<<Page: 57>>>

Blackiston among cliff dwellings in the Casas Grandes Valley and in Cave Valley, Chihuahua, Mexico.
The most important exploration in the interest of the Department of Biology was conducted by Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator of plants, who, with one assistant, was detailed for about three months to continue his botanical investigations in Mexico, in cooperation with the National Medical Institute of Mexico and the New York Botanical Garden. The States of Mexico, Morelos, Guerrero, Hidalgg, Queretaro, Puebla, and Oaxaca were visited and large collections obtained, including many living specimens of cacti.
Doctor True, head curator of biology, who is studying the fossil cetaceans of the Atlantic coast region, coliected at the Calvert Cliffs in Maryland, where several hundred specimens, mainly vertebrae, were found, and also in the vicinity of Richmond and at Gay Head, Massachusetts. While in charge of the Museum exhibit at the Lewis and Clark Exposition, Doctor Lyon made several trips, chiefly for procuring small mammals, to places in the vicinity of Portland, Oregon, to Seaside and Mount Hood, and to Mount Rainier, Washington. Mr. William Palmer also collected mammals about Portland, and Mr. W. L. Hahn was detailed for field work in Indiana. Doctor Stejneger engaged in field-work for the Museum while in Europe during the summer of 1905, and Doctor Ralph visited the Dismal Swamp, Virginia, and the Adirondack region in New York, securing both mammals and reptiles. Mr. Barton A. Bean accompanied Dr. B. W. Evermann to Florida, where he obtained a large number of fishes mainly between Daytona and Miami. Miss M. J. Rathbun was detailed to the Woods Hole Station of the Bureau of Fisheries for a part of the summer of 1905.
Dr. A. M. Reese, of Syracuse University, while collecting material in Florida for a study of the embryology of the alligator, under a grant from the Smithsonian Institution, obtained a number of reptiles for the Museum. The important field-work of Doctor Abbott in the East Indies, and of Doctor Mearns in Guam and the Philippine Islands has already been referred to.
The branches of the Government through the explorations of which the collections in biology were especially enriched are the Bureau of Fisheries, and the Bureau of Entomology, the Biological Survey, and the Bureau of Plant Industry of the Department of Agriculture.
The only explorations carried on in connection with the Department of Geology were conducted under the joint auspices of the Museum and the U. 8S. Geological Survey by Doctor Bassler, who engaged in stratigraphic field-work in the southern Appalachians during the early part of July, 1905; in western Virginia during August and September, and in the Mississippi Valley during June, 1906. These investigations resulted in the acquisition of a large amount of desirable material for the Museum collection,

<<<Page: 58>>>

Over 30,000 duplicate specimens, recently separated from the reserve collections, and consisting mainly of marine invertebrates, fishes, rocks, ores, and minerals, accurately named and labeled, were made up into several hundred sets for distribution to educational establishments. The number of sets actually sent out during the year was 261, including fossils, as well as the groups above mentioned; these comprised about 20,000 specimens.
There were lent to specialists elsewhere for study, including those who are conducting investigations for the Museum, as noted under the heading of researches, about 20,000 specimens; and upward of 17,500 duplicate specimens were utilized in making exchanges with other institutions and with individuals. The most noteworthy object disposed of in exchange was the full-sized restoration of the skeleton of the Dinosaurian reptile, Zr/ceratops, exhibited at both the PanAmerican and Louisiana Purchase expositions, which was sent to the British Museum of Natural History. Reproductions of some of the rarer objects in archeology have also proved to be a valuable medium of exchange. The institutions abroad from which, through exchange relations, important material was received were as follows:
The British Museum of Natural History, London; the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England; the Museum of Natural History, Paris; the University Zoological Museum, Copenhagen; the Geographisches Schul-Museum, Seitenstetten, Lower Austria; the University of Géttingen, Germany; the Zoological Museum of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg; the Zoological Museum, Christiania, Norway; the University of Upsala, Sweden; the Musée Cantonal, Fribourg, Switzerland; the Museo Civico di Storia Naturale, Genoa, Italy; the Royal Botanic Garden, Sibpur, near Calcutta, India; the University of Sydney, New South Wales; the Sarawak Museum, Borneo; the Instituto Medico Nacional, City of Mexico; the Instituto Fisico-Geografico, San José, Costa Rica; the Hope Gardens, Kingston, Jamaica; the Geological Survey of Canada; the Estacion Central Agronomica, Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba.
The following individuals abroad have also sent valuable specimens in exchange: Mr. J. Stanley Gardiner, Mr. Edward Lovett, the Rev. Canon A. M. Norman, and Mr. H. W. Parritt, of England; Mr. F. Canu, Mr. Jean Miguel, and Mr. J. Vaquez, of France; Mr. Ph. Oberland, of Austria; Mr. J. Kaulfuss, of Germany; Mr. G. van Roon, of Holland; Mr. A. Roman, of Sweden; Mr. A. Berger, of Italy; Dr. H. Christ, Mr. Charles Mottaz, Grebel, Wendler & Co., and Mr. Henry Volkart, of Switzerland; the Rev. R. P. Longinos Navas, of Spain; Mr. Y. Hirase, of Japan; Mr. Octavius Watkins, of West
NAT Mus 1906——4

<<<Page: 59>>>

Australia; the Rev. William Webster, of New Zealand; Mr. C. Boden Kloss, of Singapore; Mr. C. Conzatti, of Mexico; and Mr. Federico Videla Ibarra, of Chile.
The number of visitors to the National Museum building during the year was 210,886, a daily average of 673, and to the Smithsonian building 149,661, a daily average of 478.
The following tables show, respectively, the attendance during each month of the past year, and for each year beginning with 1881, when the Museum building was first opened to the public:
Number of visitors during the fiscal year 1905-6.
Year and month. SEUMIne conta * | building. 1905. | ‘IVT ANA eete Go pa RIE Oy OTR Spee OCR ALS Ae Pd oh AR OE EO CTR 17,077| ' 12,471 EATe Bat ete ae ant ON, | Re ELT, ak BOL oco™ By dae ee a te 22,641 | 16, 176 September 2s 2na<2 ccc oaicoejewes tees se ce eiacaie » soeee eee eae sae te ee eee che 22,197 16, 257 FOYE HG) 8Y Tea ee eR ee ee as Mere A tl ee ARE Bt Ro yee ale 17, 684 12, 841 INOVEMDED= 2 2 -c-incace sec ce ees een ee net see se ace a. cmemne = Seeene eee iacb ooonee 18, 831 9, 008 DOCEMPEr sata en as aaek Oh No Ta Raines Bs mia eh (a ees fey oar es 16,572. 11,171 1906 FRR OLE n Regge GE BODO EECAEP oie nnn candor pdse manearaoee ncaa Sees BaosandAsegcsese 13, 762 9, 507 HMEDrUAT Wao coe oe So eee ene Has SERIES Domine oh whe Sele Seine Seep as eeeiee meee eee 14, 958 10, 720 MATCH Sz ot cdicc eis emis ene Se eye Bee sls Sieveiace a tales Bree Scteiste arate evalweatare a iajelalouefeeeiiotaats Stays || = 11, 240 INOS 36 Ocak eracnuce SosURe pode soeRTdonn soenodumcacenaeUpoocoue panne coat Bee 24, 429 17, 556 IUD Aceh ae eaee rare MR mre ele, Deere OS a eee een are De Gate a ieee Ae Se ie eh 16, 462 11, 997 MUM) a Seve eicee cola aes Shrasocs dele pe oe amele siete ears ae Sales paca Meee Ee cee prceeneer 15, 121 | 10, 717 Ro] i tan a Ee AE eS Semen My eine alee RRS Te ide Csi Ee ee a 210, 886 149, 661
Number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the opening of the former in 1881.
Smith| | Smith-
Year, SHS: /sonian | Year | SS | sonian building. | | building.
| | S x = aed BB IES saan sere Sasi erceae see 150,000 | TL OONOOON||e1S94=—95 eee ee 201, 744 | 105, 658 SSE se eect se cece ceeer | 167, 455 1525 7449|| 1895-96 S25 eae eee neice 180,505 | 103, 650 SSS are iiss cios see eames | 202,188 104, 823 || 1896-97 .......(pple saw 229, 606 | 115, 709 1884 (half year)........--97, 661 ts aii || SWVC shane eens ee decore | 177,254 | 99, 273 1884-86 oe ceric meie siete beat 205, 026 105, 993 || 1898-99 .......... entero | 192, 471 | 116, 912 1885-—S6e se smeettacions cinema | 174, 225 88,960 || 1899-1900 ..............--. | 225, 440 | 133, 147 1886-8 sees cmers-ee shy 216, 562 98155251 "1 900=1 90 Te Jeo aas See se | 216, 556 | 151, 563 1887-88... ecmiesistes sae ce seis} | 249, 665 LOZ SES ui AON 2 eee ase eee 173, 888 | 144, 107 1888-89...) oscil neice wees | 374, 843 LAS G18) ||'81 90 2-oiee ese eres 315, 307 | 181, 174 1889-90! 2.025 2 See ES 274, 324 12058945 |1 Q03=4'. Sale see etek soe 220,778 | 143, 988 |
T890=91 cte esses aaeee | 286, 426 11166901 904—p eee eee ee eee 235, 921 | 149, 380 189192 ¥en 2 cseseeres tein | 269, $25 194,817 1905-65 ce See eae 210, 856 | 149, 661 BQ 0 R08 Ta Re awe nteacieree eters 319, 930 174,188 | To taleees bee } 5, 764, 234 | 3, 168,818
it RS nopesebedsaedas anos | 195, 748 93, 910

<<<Page: 60>>>

The work of the office of correspondence has been kept well in hand, notwithstanding the increased demands made upon the office, which not only has to do with the receipt and answering of letters in general but is also charged with the distribution of the Museum publications. Of the 8 volumes and 80 separate papers issued during the year, about 24,000 copies of the former and 34,000 of the latter were supplied to the scientific establishments, libraries, and individuals entered on the permanent mailing list. About 14,000 publications were sent out in response to special request, and some 34,000 copies were distributed in sets to many scientific and educational institutions in different parts of the country.
Eight volumes of publications were issued during the year, though the composition and printing of a part of them was begun in 1905. These volumes were as follows: The Annual Report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904, containing, besides the administrative part, three scientific papers entitled ‘* Contributions to the History of American Geology,” by George P. Merrill, *‘ The 8. S. Howland Collection of Buddhist religious art in the National Museum,” by Immanuel M. Casanowicz, and ‘* Flint Implements of the Fayum, Egypt,” by Heywood Walter Seton-Karr; volumes 28, 29, and 30 of the Proceedings of the Museum, comprising 97 descriptive papers, 25 of which were issued in separate form before the beginning of the year; Part I of Bulletin 53, entitled ‘*‘ Catalogue of the type specimens of fossil invertebrates in the department of geology, United States National Museum,” by Charles Schuchert, assisted by W. H. Dall, T. W. Stanton, and R. S. Bassler; Bulletin 54, ** A Monograph on the Isopods of North America,” by Harriet Richardson; Bulletin 55, ‘‘ A Contribution to the Oceanography of the Pacific,” by James M. Flint; Part S of Bulletin 39, entitled *‘ Directions for collecting information and objects illustrating the history of medicine,” by James M. Flint; and Part 1 of Volume X of the Contributions from the National Herbarium, entitled ‘* North American Species of Festuca,” by Charles V. Piper.
Of the papers contained in the Proceedings and the Annual Report, separates in editions of 600 to 1,000 were printed for supplying specialists, whereby the distribution of the publications was greatly extended. These separates together with the bulletins related to 81 subjects as follows: Administration, 1; physical anthropology, 1; archeology, 1; historic religions, 1; medicine, 1; mammals, 5; birds, 3; reptiles and

<<<Page: 61>>>

batrachians, 4; fishes, 16; insects, 21; crustaceans, 2; mollusks, 3; helminthology, 1; corals, 2; plants, 4; geology, 1; fossils, 13; oceanography, 1.
The regular distribution of the publications of the year consisted of 23,670 volumes and 33,600 separates, while the special distribution, resulting from requests received from time to time and from the effort to place the publications among scientific establishments where they will do the most good, amounted to about 48,000 volumes and separates from the issues of this and former years.
Besides the printing of the publications the editor has charge of all the other printing for the Museum, including the several forms of labels employed in connection with the exhibition collections, those for the specimens, for che shelves and for the cases.
The library was exceptionally fortunate the past year in the matter of valuable donations. Perhaps the one of greatest general interest was a copy of the magnificent publication in-two volumes, entitled ‘* Investigations and Studies in Jade,” profusely illustrated by American, European, and Chinese artists, and presented by the estate of the late Heber R. Bishop, whose large collection of jade and other hard stones was denoted to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The material for this imposing work was prepared under the direction of Mr. Bishop at great cost, but its publication was left to his executors. The number of copies was limited to one hundred, to be distributed to members of his family, heads of governments, and the principal libraries and museums in this and other countries.
Prof. Lester F. Ward, of the U. S. Geological Survey, and for many years connected with the Museum, presented his collection of botanical and paleobotanical books, memoirs, and pamphlets. Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, contributed a large number of natural history papers, and Dr. C. W. Richmond, assistant curator of birds, over a hundred valuable works relating to the same subject and to travel. Prof. O. T. Mason and Dr. C. A. White have continued to add to their donations of some years ago, and many valuable publications have reached the library in this way.
The library now contains 27,726 volumes, 44,075 unbound papers, and 108 manuscripts, the additions during the year having comprised 3,556 books, 5,327 pamphlets, and 105 parts of volumes. There were catalogued 1,848 books, 4,864 pamphlets, and 12,228 parts of periodicals, and 290 books were bound.
The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from the general library amounted to 28,924, including 19,354 which were assigned to the sectional libraries,

<<<Page: 62>>>

The sectional libraries established in the Museum are as follows:
Administration. Geology. Parasites. Administrative Assistant. History. Photography. Anthropology. Insects. Physical Anthropology. Biology. Mammals. Prehistoric archeology. Birds. Marine Invertebrates. Reptiles. Botany. Materia Medica. Stratigraphic Paleontology. Children’s Room. Mesozoic Fossils. Superintendent. Comparative Anatomy. Mineralogy. Taxidermy. Editor. Mollusks. Technology. Ethnology. Oriental Archeology. Fishes. Paleobotany.
In the photographic laboratory, which is well equipped for the purpose, there were made 1,681 negatives, 3,820 silver prints, 465 platinum prints, 514 velox prints, 1,903 cyanotypes, and 56 bromide prints. These photographs were almost exclusively of objects in the collections for use in illustrating scientific reports or in perfecting the records and catalogs. Some, however, related to structural details of the buildings, to articles of furniture, and to other general museum subjects. The chief photographer, Mr. T. W. Smillie, also continued, as in previous years, to conduct the examinations in photography for the U. 8. Civil Service Commission.
From the appropriation of $200,000 made by Congress for a Goyernment exhibit at this exposition, which was held from June 1 to October 15, 1905, the sum of $12,658 was allotted to the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum, which were represented on the Government Board by Dr. F. W. True, Dr. M. W. Lyon, jr., being
-detailed as chief special agent. The collections taken to Portland were mainly selections from the exhibit made at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, but with only about one-third the space the display was naturally very much smaller. Among the new objects shown were photographic enlargements of geological subjects and of animals at the National Zoological_ Park; framed plates from Audubon’s great work on birds;:a nearly complete skeleton of the extinct Dodo; a facsimile of a painting of the living Dodo from a copy in the British Museum, and the skeleton of a little piked whale.
In the sundry civil act approved June 30, 1906, the sum of $200,000 was appropriated to enable the United States Government, including

<<<Page: 63>>>

the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum, to be represented at the Jamestown Tercentennial Exposition, which will be held during the summer cf 1907. The buildings were provided for ina Separate grant of $350,000.
There were few changes in the scientific staff during the year. Mr. E. P. Upham, who has served for many years in the division of prehistoric archeology under the title of clerk, was advanced to the rank of aid. Dr. M. W. Lyon, jr., was promoted from the grade of aid to that of assistant curator in the division of mammals, while Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., also assistant curator in the same division, was granted a year’s leave of absence to enable him to carry on certain investigations abroad for the British Museum of Natural History.
Dr. Paul Bartsch was promoted from aid to assistant curator in the division of mollusks. Mr. Le Roy Abrams was appointed assistant curator in the division of plants; Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the Department of Agriculture, custodian of orthoptera in the division of insects, and Mr. Lawrence La Forge, of the Geological Survey, aid in the division of physical and chemical geology.
The following table gives the organization and staff at the close of the fiscal year:

<<<Page: 64>>>

THE Museum STAFF.
The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper ex officio. RicHarpD Rarusun, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. 8. National Museum. W. pe C. Ravenet, Administrative Assistant.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: Otis T. Mason, Head Curator. Division of Ethnology: Otis T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant Curator; J. W. Fewkes, Collaborator. Division of Physical Anthropology: Ale& Hrdliéka, Assistant Curator. Division of Historic Archeology: Cyrus Adler, Curator; I. M. Casanowicz, Assistant Curator. Division of Prehistoric Archeology: William H. Holmes, Curator; J. D. McGuire, Collaborator; E. P. Upham, Aid. Division of Technology: George C. Maynard, Assistant Curator. Division of Graphic Arts: Paul Brockett, Custodian. Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian. Division of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U. S. Navy (Retired), Curator. Division of Historic Religions: Cyrus Adler, Curator. ~ Division of History: A. Howard Clark, Curator; Paul Beckwith, Assistant Curator. Associate in Historic Archeology: Paul Haupt. DEPARTMENT OF BrioLoey: Frederick W. True, Head Curator. Division of Mammals: Frederick W. True, Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, jr., Assistant Curator; Walter L. Hahn, Aid. Division of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assistant Curator; J. H. Riley, Aid. Section of Birds’ Eggs: William L. Ralph, Curator; E. J. Horgan, Aid. Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, Curator; R. G. Paine, Aid. : Division of Fishes: B. W. Eyermann, Curator; Barton A. Bean, Assistant Curator; C. A. McKnew, Aid. Division of Mollusks: William H. Dall, Curator; Paul Bartsch, Assistant Curator; William B. Marshall, Aid. Division of Insects: LL. O. Howard, Curator; W. H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator; H. 8. Barber, Aid. Section of Hymenoptera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge. Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, Custodian. Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian. Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian. Section of Lepidoptera: Harrison G. Dyar, Custodian. Section of Orthoptera: A. N. Caudell, Custodian. Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian. , 51

<<<Page: 65>>>

DEPARTMENT OF BroLtoay—Continued.
Division of Marine Invertebrates: Richard Rathbun, Curator; J. E. Benedict, Assistant Curator; Mary J. Rathbun, Assistant Curator; Harriet Richardson, Collaborator. “4
Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian; B. H. Ransom, Assistant Custodian.
Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Curator: J. N. Rose, Associate Curator; W. R. Maxon, Assistant Curator; LeRoy Abrams, Assistant Curator; J. H. Painter, Aid.
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, Assistant Curator.
Section of Higher Algee: W. T. Swingle, Custodian.
Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian.
Associates in Zoology: Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam, R. E. C. Stearns, W. L. Abbott.
Associates in Botany: Edward L. Greene, John Donnell Smith.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: George P. Merrill, Head Curator.
Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied): George P. Merrill, Curator; Laurence La Forge, Aid.
Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assistant Curator.
Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Curator; R. 8. Bassler, Assistant Curator.
Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, R. 8. Bassler, in charge; Carboniferous, George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton, Custodian; Cenozoic, W. H. Dall, Associate Curator; Madreporarian Corals, T. Wayland Vaughan, Custodian.
Section of Paleobotany: David White, Associate Curator; A. C. Peale, Aid; F. H. Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants.
Associate in Mineralogy, L. T. Chamberlain. Associate in Paleontology, Charles A. White. Associate in Paleobotany, Lester F. Ward. DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL TECHNOLOGY: Charles D. Walcott, Curator.
Chief of Correspondence and Documents, R. I. Geare. Disbursing Agent, W. I. Adams.
Superintendent of Construction and Labor, J. 8. Goldsmith. Editor, Marcus Benjamin. Editorial Clerk, E. §. Steele. Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder. Photographer, T. W. Smillie. Registrar, 8. C. Brown.
Property Clerk, W. A. Knowles.

<<<Page: 66>>>

Axsportr, WittIAM L., Singapore, Straits Settlements: An extensive and valuable collection of ethnological and biological material, the latter consisting of mammals, birds, reptiles, insects, fishes, and mollusks, principally from the islands
of Engano and Nias, western Sumatra; | also 363 negatives (44682); a large and
very interesting collection of ethnolog-
ical objects and natural-history speci|
mens from the region of Kapuas River, Borneo (45397); ethnological specimens and natural-history material from eastern Sumatra (46089); mammals from Rhio Archipelago, collected by C. Boden Kloss (46090). (See under C. Boden Kloss. )
ABRAMS, LE Roy, U.S. National Museum: |
638 plants from California (46066: purchase). (See under J. W. Adams. )
Apa, JosepH §., Canaan, Conn.: Larva
of a sphinx-moth, or hawk-moth, para|
sitized by ichneumon-flies (44969).
Apams, J. W., Soldiers’ Home, Cal.: 8 plants from California (45147); 4 plants from the southern part of California (received through Le Roy Abrams) (45031).
Apams, Martin A., Jersey City, N. J.: Cane or walking-stick with the inscription ‘‘Presented to Dr. B. Clement, U. S. Frigate Constitution’’ (45632).
ADLER, Cyrus, Smithsonian Institution: Ten-cent bill (fractional currency) (45284).
AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF, Hon. James Wilson, Secretary.
Bureau of Biological Survey: 4 plants from Texas, collected by Arthur Howell (44771); specimen of black pine, Pinus Jeffreyi, collected by J. H. Gaut in Shasta County, Cal. (44859); 268 plants from Mexico (44939); 50 shells from Lower California (44996); 3 freshwater shells obtained by J. H. Gaut in California (45015); 4 birds’ eggs coilected in Lower California by E. A. Goldman and E. W. Nelson (45027); 4 specimens of mollusk, Epiphragmophora jidelis, from California, collected by J. H. Gaut (45049); plant from Elk River, Minnesota, collected by Vernon Bailey (45080); 207 plants collected in Lower California by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman (45136) ;5 specimens of willow, Salix, obtained in California by E. W. Nelson (45385); 120 plants from Lower California obtained by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman (45479); 29 landshells collected by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman in Lower California (45496); 26 plants collected in Texas by A. H. Howell (45579); 130 plants collected in Lower California by E. A. Goldman and E. W. Nelson (45582); 9 specimens of cacti from Mexico collected ~ by E. W. Nelson (45736); 24 living plants and 120 dried specimens obtained by E. W. Nelsonand E. A. Goldman in Mexico (45735); crustaceans collected by E. W. Nelson and E. A. Gold-

<<<Page: 67>>>

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF—Cont’d.
man in San Felipe Bay, Lower Cali|
fornia (45797 ); 6eggsof Viosca’s pigeon, Columba fasciata viosce from Lower California (45811);
from California collected by E. A. Gold-
man (45845); 38 plants from Arizona | collected by E. A. Goldman (45846); |
specimen of living prickly pear, Opuntia, from Wyoming collected by Vernon Bailey (45897); 5plants from Wyoming
collected by Vernon Bailey (45958); |
3 living specimens of cacti collected by Vernon Bailey in New Mexico (46048) ; skeletons and sterna of birds (46062); nest of California bush-tit, Psaltriparus minimus californicus (46128).
Bureau of Entomology: Specimen of
short-fruited rush, Juncus brachycarpus, |
from Long Island, collected by Harry
Latham (44740); large collection of | insects made by Mr. A. Busck, under | the auspices of the Carnegie Institution | (45044); about 10,000 insects collected | in Brownsville, Tex., by H. 8. Barber |
(45250); about 800 Japanese insects
(45252); 6 specimens of cicada, Cicada |
nigriventris (45477); specimen of insect, Mantispa viridis, collected by J. D. Mitchell, Victoria, Tex. (45587); 6 specimens of insect, Telenomus lioderme, collected by A. W. Morrill (45740); large collection of insects, shells, reptiles, plants, marine invertebrates, bird and bird-egg collected in Alta Verapaz, Guatemala, by E. A. Schwarz and H. 8. Barber (46026).
Bureau of Plant Industry: 30 plants from Texas (44649); 196 plants collected in Massachusetts by G..C. Worthen (45677); 820 type specimens of grasses and many drawings of types (44696); about 400 plants collected in Guatemala by H. Pittier in 1905 (44763) ; about 300 snakes, insects, and plants collected in Guatemala by G. P. Goll in 1904 and 1905 (44783); 13 plants from various localities (44885); about 800 plants collected in Costa Rica in 1903 by O. F. Cook and C. B. Doyle (44889); 15 plants from Washington
and Oregon collected by Byron Hunter |
(44976); plants obtained in Texas by J. H. Gaut (44991); 2 specimens of
18 land-shells from | Lower California (45840); 21 plants |
| AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT or—Cont’d.
willow, Salix (45016); 9 specimens of grasses collected at Fort Gibbons, Alaska, by C. W. H. Heideman (45033); 13 specimens of grasses from Mt. Rose, Ney., collected by P. B. Kennedy (45034) ; 23 plants collected in Argentina by various collectors and received from KE. Autran, Buenos Aires, Argentina (45035); 6 plants collected in the
Transvaal by William McDonald, editor of the ‘‘Agricultural Journal,” Pretoria, Transvaal (45036); 150
plants collected in various localities and received from E. Hackel, Graz, Austria (45037); 821 grasses, largely types obtained by different collectors in various localities (45038); 69 specimens of grasses collected in the southern part of the United States by S. M. Tracy (45039); 15 specimens of grasses from Terra del Fuego collected in 1903, from E. Autran, Buenos Aires, Argentina (45040); 2,750 plants from various localities (45059); 3 plants from Virginia (45060); 123 plants collected in Mexico by H. Pittier (45126); 18 specimens of cryptogams from various localities (45233); 300 plants from the western part of the United States collected by F. V. Coville (45237); plants from Oregon (45238); 10 plants from Oregon (45238); plant from Washington (45266); 3 plants from various localities (45280); 31 plants from various localities (45349); 35 plants collected in Pennsylvania, Maine, and other localities by P. L. Ricker (45401); 9 specimens of Pteridophyta collected in Washington by C. V. Piper (45416); 8 shrubby plants from New Hampshire collected by F. V. Coville (45425); 21 specimens of grasses collected by W. E. Brockway in Grenada, West * Indies (45605); 8 grasses from Argentina collected by G. Williams and sent by L. H. Pammel (45606); 31 grasses from W. ©. Cusick, Union, Oreg. (45607); 65 botanical specimens from N. N. Suksdorf, Bingen, Wash. (45608); 116 specimens of grasses from different localities (45609); 5 plants from Mexico and vicinity (45610); 500 plants, chiefly from the western section of the United — States, collected by David Griffiths

<<<Page: 68>>>

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT or —Cont’d. (45667); 82 sedges (45674); 1 plant, Dracontium asperum, from Porto Rico | (45706); about 1,175 specimens of grasses (45737); 400 plants obtained from A. Kneucker, Germany (45864); about 500 specimens of fungi from Maine collected by P. L. Ricker (45893); specimen of ivory palm, Phytelephas, from Panama (45894); plants from the Colombian Republic collected by H. Pittier (44895); fungus, Alfemaria solani, collected by W. 8. Lyon in the | Philippine Islands (45896); plants from | Alaska collected by the Harriman expedition (45908); plants collected by W. F. Wight in Canada and New Hampshire (45917); 2 plants from the southern part of California (45928); 52 plants from various sections cf the United States (46017); 2 living specimens of | prickly pear, Opuntia, from Dallas, Tex., collected by C. V. Piper (46018); 4 living plants from Texas collected by C. V. Piper (46028); specimen of plantain | from Texas collected by UC. V. Piper (46070); 14 plants from the Philippine Islands collected by F. Lamson-Scribner (46101).
Forest Service: 310 plants collected in the United States.
(See also under J. A. Flemer; B. V. Lilly; C. G. Lloyd; C. 8S. Scofield. )
ALABAMA STATE CoMMISSION AT THE Loutstana PurcHAsE Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic mineralsfrom Alabama (44661).
ALBATROSS AGASSIZ EXPEDITION. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
ALFARO, ANAsTAsIOo, San José, Costa Rica: 5 birds’ skins from Costa Rica (44654); | 11 birds’ skins from Costa Rica, in| cluding type of a new species of owl, | Cryptoglaux ridgwayi (44903). (See under San José, Costa Rica, Museo | Nacional).
ALLEN, G. W., Fort Bayard, N. Mex.: 2 larvee of a large yellow swallow-tailed | butterfly, Papilio (44970).
ALLEN, R. A., Jr., U. S. National Museum: Wild rabbit, gray squirrel, owl, hooded woodpecker, field-lark, crow, blue jay, cardinal, turkey buzzard, 2 field-larks, woodcock, collected for the Museum at |
| ALLEN, R. A., Jr.—Continued.
Ammon, Amelia County, Va. (45112; 45125; 45140; 45160).
ALLEN, WiLLIAM T., Pacific Grove, Cal.: 5 living plants of the genus Dudleya, from Point Lobus (45725).
Atonza, Caro, Bologna, Italy: Subterranean crustaceans from Italy (44951); collection of cave insects (46092). change.
| ALTAMIRANO, F., Instituto Medico Na-
cional, City of Mexico, Mexico: 4 plants from Mexico (45017). City of Mexico. )
Autverson, A. H., San Bernardino, Cal.: 7 plants from California (45835: exchange).
(See also under
| AMERICAN Museum or Natura History,
New York City: About 500 moths (45726: exchange); 2 species of ants (45854: exchange); brain of an Eskimo (11234: loan).
AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL Society, Philadelphia, Pa.: Bronze medal to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin (received through the President of the United States, from the State Department) (45927). See also under Smithsonian Institution.
AMERICAN ReEpuBLics, INTERNATIONAL Bureau OF THE, Washington, D. C.: Panama relief map and Intercontinental railway map (45568).
AmeEs, Frank H., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Beetle and 2 larvee of Sitodrepa panice 1 (46134).
Amos, Mrs. Heten, Washington, D. C.: Cecropia moth (46046).
AnpeErRsON, E. M., ProvincialMuseum, Victoria, British Columbia: Moth (44687).
ANDERSON, Ropert VY. (See under Leland Stanford Junior University. )
ANDERSON, R. W., Eagle Pass, Tex.: Cac-
taceze from Texas (45553; 45627; 45640).
| . e | AnpreEws, L., Stonington, Conn.: 5 plants
of the genus Sanguinaria from Connecticut (45920).
AntHony, A. W., Anthony, Oreg.: Invertebrate fossils (46052).
ARKANSAS Strate CoMMISSION AT THE LourstANa PurcHase Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from Arkansas (44662).

<<<Page: 69>>>

ARLEDGE, ALEX., Weiser, Idaho: Larva | Batt, W. P., Beckley, W. Va.: 2 fossil-
of a water-beetle, Hydrophilus triangularis (44690).
Armes, Col. G. A., U. 8. Army (retired), Washington, D. C.: Service sword worn during the civil war, while on the staff of Gen. W. 8. Hancock (44960); unexploded shell from Appomattox battlefield, April 8-9, 1865 (45363).
Artuur, J. C., Lafayette, Ind.: 32 fungi (45898: exchange).
Aso, Cuarues, U. 8. National Museum: Bat, Vespertilio (45319: collected for the Museum ).
Atwoop, M. C., Provincetown, Mass.: Brain of double-crested cormorant, Phalacrocorax dilophus (45022).
AutRAN, E. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Avery, W. C., Corinth, Vt.: Larve of a fly, probably Homalomyia canicularis (45868 ).
Back, EK. A., Amherst, Mass.: 5 dipterous insects, Scatopse clavipes (45788).
Bapu, N. J., Llano, Tex.: Samples of powdered rock (44874).
Baae, Rurus M., Jr. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
Bartey, Vernon, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Living specimen of prickly pear, Opuntiaclavata from Texas (45130). (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Baker, C. F., Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: 44 specimens of Lepidoptera (44863); 176 specimens of Lepidoptera (45166); 200 specimens of cacti from Cuba (46085). (See also under Santiago de las Vegas. )
Baker, Frank C. Academy of Sciences. )
Baker, Leroy, Mell City, Nev.: Silver
ores from Buena Vista district, Hum|
boldt County, Nev. (45527).
Society of Christian Endeavor (44676).
Bauicu, F. N., Boston, Mass.: 4 specimens of mollusk, Rissoa latior, from Maine (46001).
(See under Chicago |
plants from Beckley (received through David White) (45528).
Banes, Ourram. (See under John EF. Thayer. )
Banks, CHartes 8. (See under Manila, Philippine Islands, Bureau of Science. )
Banta, A. M. and W. L. McAres, Department of Agriculture: 24 specimens of salamanders, Spelerpes maculicaudus, from Mansfield’s Cave, Bloomington, Ind. (45247).
Barser, A. W., Washington, D. C.: Birch-bark bucket from Washington (44956: exchange); plant from near Lake Okeechobee, Florida (44965); copperhead snake from Virginia (44826).
Barser, Maj. Henry A., U. S. Army (retired), Cambridge, Md.: Scorpion, Heterometrus longimanus (45110).
Barser, H. §., U. S. National Museum: 5 specimens of knotweed, Polygonum, from Fairfax County, Va. (44785); 3 land-shells from California (45054). (See also under Department of Agriculture and Carnegie Institution. )
Barser, V. 8., Susanville, Cal.: 34 eggs of North American birds (44694).
BarcHET, STEPHEN P. (See under Smith-
sonian Institution. )
Barnarp, W. C., Seneca, Mo.: Small collection of relics from ancient quarries in Seneca County (45113); flint implements from Seneca (46057). Exchange.
Barnes, WriiuiAM, Decatur, Ill.: 616 moths (44720: exchange); 259 specimens of Lepidoptera (44680; 45233).
Barrett, L. E., Syracuse, N. Y.: Hickory-
horned devil, larva of Citheronia regalis, from Indian Territory (?) (44910). BarRINGER, M., Philadelphia, Pa.: Piece
of stony meteorite weighing 200 grams, from Cafion Diablo, Arizona (46024).
| Barrort, A. F., Washington, D.C.: Coin: Baker, Miss Oxtvra, Selma, Ala.: Ala|
bama badge of the Young People’s |
4 kopeck of 1892 (45111); silver necklace of Navaho workmanship (45924: exchange).
Bartuert, J. D., Hico, Tex.: Fragment of a Lower Cretaceous ammonite of the genus Engonoceras (45383).

<<<Page: 70>>>

Barter, 8. P. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Bartscu, Paun, U. 8. National Museum: Fungus from the District of Columbia (44718); 3 plants from Fairfax County, Va. (44798: collected for the Museum).
Bassett, Miss Hutpa J., Warsaw, N.'Y.: Beetle, Calligrapha scalaris (45457).
Basster, R. 8., U. S. National Museum: 20 Jand-shells from Clinch Mountain, near Mendota, Va. (44824); about 5,000 fossils from the Ordovician rocks of Virginia (44935: collected for the Museum); about 500 fossils from the Silurian and Devonian rocks of Virginia (44977: collected for the Museum).
Baumann, A. F., Greenville, S. C.: Cube of granite (44957).
Baytey, Western D., Philadelphia, Pa.: Collection of old musical instruments and manuscript music arranged for bands (45356).
Beats, Mrs. Ipa M., Lake Valley, N. Mex.: 11 specimens of cactus and a plant from New Mexico (44648; 44807; 44818; 45026; 45184).
Bean, Barton A., U. 8S. National Museum: Fishes collected for the Museum along the eastern coast of Florida (45409).
Bean, T. H., New York City: Invertebrates from Alaska and Washington (45169); 3 birds’ skins from near Washington, D. C. (45964).
Becxwirn, Paut, U. 8. National Museum: 26 one-cent pieces, U.S. curreney, and 2 U.S. dimes (45454); silver half-dollar, U. S. currency, issued in 1817 (45710); silver coin of the Dukes of Belgium, IIII Marean gross of 1668 (46010).
Breese, G. F., Jordan, Mont.: Cricket, Stenopalmatus fuscus (45094).
Beers, Henry W., Bridgeport, Conn.: 7 nests and 35 eggs of the blue-winged warbler, Helminthophila pinus (45603: exchange).
Benepict, J. E., U. S. National Museum: Mollusks and other invertebrates from Pacific Groye,. Cal. (45339: collected for the Museum).
Brnepict, J. E. and Marcus W. Lyon, jr., U. S. National Museum: Mammals, plants, reptiles, mollusks, crustaceans, birds, and fishes from Oregon (45099: collected for the Museum).
Benepict, J. E., jr., Woodside, Md.: Snake, Carphophiops, from Woodside (44881).
Beneurat, Hapst Eparaim, New York City: Religious objects used in Jewish ceremonial (11487: loan).
Bere, L. (See under St. Petersburg, Musée Zoologique de l’ Académie Impériale des Sciences).
Bercer, A., La Mortola, Ventimiglia, Italy: Specimen of cactus from Italy (45292: exchange).
Brreu, H. O., Quatsino, British Columbia (northwest coast of Vancouver Island): 2 Indian skulls collected in the neighborhood of Quatsino (45058).
Bernpt, E. L. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries).
BESSELIEVRE, 8. I., Navy Department, Washington, D. C.: Blue prints of the plansofthe frigate Constitution. (44724).
BEUTENMULLER, ALFRED, New York City: 968 photographs of Indians of the southwestern part of the United States and northern Mexico, printed from negatives taken by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka (45102).
BEUTENMULLER, WILLIAM, American Museum of Natural History, New York City: 6 beetles, Cychrus niagarensis and Corymbites longicornis (44633).
BruuinestEy, T. E., Victoria, Tex.: 3 living specimens of cacti from Victoria (44799).
BisHop, estate of H. R.: Copy of the magnificent publication entitled ‘‘The Bishop Collection, Investigations and Studies in Jade’’: also rocks and associated minerals collected by George F. Kunz and his son in Silesia for Mr. Bishop’s use in illustrating the occurrence of jade in Europe (received through A. J. Paterson, executor) (45485).
Bishop Mvusrum (See under Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands).

<<<Page: 71>>>

Buack, G. F., New York City: Electro| types of Seotch and_other antiquities (44941).
Buack, Gen. Jon C., Civil Service Com| mission, Washington, D. C.: Luna moth, Trophxa luna (46132).
Buackrorp, CHares M., Staunton, Va.: | Long-sting, Megarhyssa lunator (46039). |
Buackiston, A. H., Flagstaff, Ariz.: Collection of pottery, stone implements, | ana human bones from Casas Grandes Valley and Cave Valley, Chihuahua, Mexico(11152) ; shell and stone objects, | bones, etc., from the same localities (11311). Loan.
BLackMAR, estate of Gen. W. W.: Chair in which General Grant sat when signing thearticles of capitulation at the surrender of the army of General Lee at Appomattox Court House, April 9, 1865 (received through Geo. B. Knapp, executor) (45493).
BLAKESLEE, A. F., Halle, Germany: 2 specimens of fungus, Phycomyces nitens (45727).
Buaney, Dwieut, Bar Harbor, Me.: 230 specimens of mollusks from French| mans Bay, Me. (44712).
BuLANKE, Cyrus F., St. Louis, Mo.: Piece | of a log which formed a part of the cabin built by General Grant in 1854 (45490).
Buankinsuie, J. W., Bozeman, Mont.: | 500 plants from Montana (45232: purchase). :
Buiumer, J. C., Washington, D. C.: 3 living specimens of cacti from New Mexico (45626); 146 plants from New | Mexico (46014).
Boarman, W. A., Cherrydale road, Fairfax County, Va.: Pair of iron tongs | found in 1862 on General Washington’s | birthplace, Wakefield, Va. (46097).
Bours, Miss Lucy Dix, Brookline, Mass. : | Brick from porcelain tower at Mankin; | brick of solid tea (sometime used as money), and a sword made of perforated copper coins (45436). |
Booto, P. L., Danville, Va.: Larva of | moth, Megalopyge opercularis (44855).
Boswortn, A. §., Fishing Hawk, W. Va.: Fossil plants (44778).
Bovutwe.., G. B., Monte Vista, Colo.: Specimen of tench, Tinca vulgaris (45771).
Bowpen, J., Stillwater, Okla.: Larva ofa butterfly, Papilio sp. (46078).
Bowers, SAMUEL, Bisbee, Ariz.: 51 cases
of a bag-worm, Ojiketicus townsendi (44731; 45392).
Bowers, SrepHen, Los Angeles, Cal.: Specimen of coelenterate, Cenocyathus n. sp., from California (45148).
Brapitey, Mrs. N. D., Richmond, Va.: 2 garden spiders, Argiope riparia (?) (44934).
BRAINERD, Dwiaut, Montreal, Canada: 2 types of new species and variety of a moth, Gortyna (44728: exchange).
BRAINERD, Ezra, Middlebury, Vt.: 33 specimens of violets from Vermont. (45809: exchange).
BRANDEGEE, T. 8., San Diego, Cal.: 3 plants from California (45103: exchange); 6 specimens of umbelliferous plants from Mexico (45400); 6 plants from California and Mexico, 4 of them collected in Mexico by C. A. Purpus (45717; 45878; 45951: exchange).
| Braun, Miss A. F., Cincinnati, Ohio: 9
tineid moths representing rare species (45422).
| BRAVERMAN, M., Visalia, Cal.: 2 German
passports (46020).
BRAZILIAN CoMMISSION AT THE LOUISIANA PurcHaAsE Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from Brazil (44636).
Brewster, A. B., Koyukuk District, Alaska: Gold nugget (crystal) weighing 2 grams (45440); plaster casts of 2 gold nuggets from Myrtle Creek, Koyukuk District (45515).
Brimutey Brotuers, Raleigh, N. C.: 5 batrachians (46060: purchase).
Brimtey, C. S., Raleigh, N. C.: 4 specimens of Chologaster cornutus and Copelandellus quiescens from Ellis Lake, North Carolina (44673); eggs of Scaphiopus holbrooki and larvee of Engystoma (45200); salamander from North Carolina (45259); 30 specimens of Orthoptera (45546); tree-frogs and salamanders (45633); 2 salamanders from North Carolina (46059).

<<<Page: 72>>>

British GuraNnA Museum. (See under Georgetown, British Guiana. ) Brirron, N. L., New York Botanical Garden, New York City: 8 plants, 6 photographs of plants, and a living plant (45121: exchange). (See under Kings-
Garden.) .
Brocknaus, Orro, Port Angeles, Wash.: | Larvee.of a cerambycid beetle, proba|
bly Prgates spiculatus (46012).
Brockway, Wriiiam, Necaxa, Puebla, Mexico: 8 living plants from Mexico (45322).
Brockway, W. E. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Bropir, Wr11aM, Provincial Museum, Toronto, Ontario, Canada: 23specimens of Hymenoptera (44894) ; 14 specimens of Diptera (received through L. O. Howard) (46068).
Brooktyn Institute or Arts AND ScrIENCES, Museum oF, Brooklyn, N. Y.: Reptiles and batrachians from Northand South America (45448); skeleton of oilbird, Steatornis caripensis, from Trini-
dad, collected by George K. Cherrie
(45611). Brooks, F. E., Morgantown, W. Va.: 4 specimens of Stiboscopus brooksi (45548). Brooks, T. W., Detroit, Mich.: Cockroaches, probably Ectobia germanica (45997).
Exchange.
Brown, E. J., Lemon City, Fla.: Reptiles, batrachians, fishes, insects, shrimp, shrew, and a bird, from Florida (45875).
Brown, NarHan Currrorp, Lakewood, N.J.: Skin of cardinal, Cardinalis cardi-
nalis, inclining to floridanus (45641); 8 |
birds’ (45642). Brown, Rev. Rosert, Philippine Weather Bureau, Manila, Philippine Islands: Parasitic Hymenoptera (44681; 44765; 44781; 44797; 44879; 45096; 45245; 45281; 45459; 45615); 2 glass sponges (44823).
nests from
Browne, estate of Mrs. L. W. K.: Swords and guns of the late Gen. William Henry Browne (received through H. H. Dodge, executor) (45676: bequest.)
North Carolina |
Brugs, C. T., Public Museum, Milwaukee, Wis.: 2 specimens of’ ichneumon-flies, Mosostenus arvalis (44810). :
Bruner, Prof. Lawrence, Lincoln, Nebr.: 66 Orthoptera (Decticine) (45391).
| Bryant, Owen, Cohasset, Mass.: 2 speciton, Jamaica, and New York Botanical |
mens of Diptera (44813); 14 specimens of mollusks, Rissoa multilineata and Paludestrina from Cohasset (45187).
Bucks Harspor GRANITE Company, South Brooksville, Me. (See under M. D. Chatto. )
Bunker, Mrs. Evia, Washington, D. C.: 4 eggs of African gray parrot (45246).
Buscx, Auaust, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.: Mammalsfrom the West Indies (45003); snakes and lizards from Santo Domingo (45005); 10 birds’ skins from Santo Domingo (45062); sand-bug from Trinidad (45228) ; young specimens of mollusks, Ampullaria, from Trinidad, and of Neritina from Santo Domingo (45250). (See also under Department of Agriculture, and B. W. Evermann. )
salsa,
Busu, B. F., Courtney, Mo.: 52 plants, * including portions of 2 types from Missouri, Arkansas, and Texas (44777) ; 52 plants from Missouri (45291).
Busu, Miss K. J. (See under Peabody Museum, New Haven, Conn.)
BusseELL, C. W., McCoysburg, Ind.: 2 wolves (45991).
| Burier, C. T., Brookhaven, Miss.: Plant
(44788).
Burton, F. L., Oakland, Cal.: Specimen of mollusk, Rostellaria delicatula, trom Persian Gulf, and 5 specimens of mollusk, Epiphragmophora arrosa expansilabris, from Ferndale, Cal. (45522).
Cairns, Ratpo, Walton, N. Y.: Two fossil plants from the Devonian of New York (received through David White) (45507 ).
CaLpweELL, F. M., Venice, Il].: Photograph of a celt weighing 40 pounds (45946).
CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, San Francisco, Cal.: Plant from Lower California (45857: exchange).

<<<Page: 73>>>

CALIrorRNtIA Citrus Propucts Company, National City, Cal.: Citric acid, melade, lemon extract, lemon oil, from the Lewis and Clark Exposition at Portland, Oreg. (45794).
CALLEJA, FrANcisco Lopez, San José, Costa Rica: Reptiles, batrachians, and 2 mole-crickets (44638).
Catvert, Mrs. E. F. R. (See under Miss Cornelia P. Randolph. )
CANADA, GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF. under Ottawa, Canada. )
Cannon, W. A., Tucson, Ariz.: Cactus |
fruits (44717).
Canu, F., Versailles, France: Fossil shells from the Cretaceous of France (44809: exchange).
Carp, GEORGE W. (See under Sydney, New South Wales,. University of Sydney. )
JARLISLE, J. A., Gainesville, Fla.: Pair of ram’s horns (45239).
Carnecie Institution, Washington, D. C.: A large collection of insects from Central America, obtained by Mr. Frederick Knab (received through Dr. L. O. Howard) (45043); 827 mosquitoes and other insects collected in July and August, 1904 by H. 8. Barber (45258) ; fishes, insects, mollusks, and other invertebrates collected by J. Hobart Egbert in the region of the Hawaiian Islands while attached to the Magnetic Expedition under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution (45865). (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Carnecieé Musevo, Pittsburg, Pa.: Specimen of Sanguinaria from Pennsylvania (45833; exchange).
CarrutH, G. H., Catawba, Va.: Larva and pupa of a moth, Sisyrosea textula (44997).
Cary, L. R., Cameron,
* (45643).
Cary, Merritt, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: 13 dragonflies and a moth from Athabasca, Mackenzie Districts, Canada (46035).
Cary, Merritt, and L. Bruner, Department of Agriculture: 128 dragon flies
La.: Shells
from Juan Vifias, Costa Rica (46034). !
(See
JASTNER, Mrs. Haminton Y., New York City: 10 specimens illustrating the manufacture of aluminum by the Castner process, and a portrait of H. Y. Castner (45366).
CATLETTSBURG, KENOVA AND CEREDO Water Company, Catlettsburg, Ky.: Specimen of ‘‘erystallized soot’’ (45164).
CaupvELL, A. N., U.S. National Museum: Lizard from Wyandotte Cave., Ind. (44825; collected for the Museum); 3 bats, Myotis, from Indiana (45025); salamanders from Falls Church, Va. (45154; collected for the Museum); 150 specimens of Orthoptera from Paraguay (45423).
Crerriciio, A., Washington, D. C.: Crab, Gecarcinus, found in a bunch of bananas from Cuba (45930).
CEYLON CoMMISSION AT THE LOUISIANA PurcHasE Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from Ceylon (44639; 6 swifts, Collocalia, from Ceylon (44904; purchase).
CuaLwin, H. J., superintendent Municipal Gardens, Cape Town, South Africa: Seeds (44716).
CHAMBERLAIN, E. B., Cumberland Center, Me.: Living plant, Sedum stoloniferus, from Maine (46100; exchange).
CHAMBERLAIN, F. M. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
CHAMBERLAIN, L. T., New York City:
Collection of unios from Burmah (45317). Cannon, Miss M. K., Philadelphia,
Pa.: Mole-cricket, Gryllotalpa borealis (45045).
CHANUTE, Octavk, Chicago, Ill.: Models of flying-machines and kites (45671; 45672). (See also under Field Museum of Natural History. )
CHapMaNn, N. A., East Cleveland, Ohio: Photograph of Dr. G. 8. B. Hempstead and his ‘‘Archeological Map’’ of Portsmouth, Ohio, and vicinity (44726).
Cuapman, 8. B., Shope, N. C.: Grasshopper, Chortophaga __ viridifasciata (45619).

<<<Page: 74>>>

CuHapMaNn, T. A., Betula, Reigate, England: 8 butterflies, 5 moths, and 6 cocoons from Spain (44650).
Case, Mrs. AGNes, Washington, D. C.: 2 plants from the District of Columbia (45877; exchange). (See also under E. J. Hill.)
GuasTAIN BrorHers, Thomasville, Ga.: Nest and young larve of a moth (46007).
Cuatro, M. D., South Brooksville, Me.: Polished cube of granite from the Bucks Harbor Granite Company (45310).
CHERRIE, GEORGE K. (See under Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, Museum of. )
CuicaGo ACADEMY OF ScrEencEs, Chicago, Ill.: Crustaceans (received through Frank C. Baker, curator) (45287).
Curist, H. Baset, Switzerland: Fragment of the type of Diplozium Werckleanum (fern) from Costa Rica (45311) ; 328 ferns from Costa Rica (45712; exchange).
CuristiANtA, Norway, Zootocicat MvsEUM: 4 specimens of rats (45680); skin and skull of reindeer, and skin and skull of red deer (46025). Exchange.
CuurcHiLt, C. H., Johannesburg, Cal.: Three fossorial wasps frome Mojave Desert (44883). =
Cuapp, GreorGce H., Pittsburg, Pa.: Cotypes of 3 species of land-snails, Polygyra (45241).
Cuark, F. F., New York City: 2 one-cent |
pieces of United States currency of the issues of 1885 and 1893 (45473).
Cuarx, H. F., Washington, D. C.: Gold |
ore from Montana Tonopah mines, Tonopah, Ney. (44955).
CriarK, H. W., Bureau of Fisheries: 75 land mollusks from the District of Columbia (44833); landshells and a snail, Limax maximus, from the Dis-
trict of Columbia (45841; 45052; 45509). | CuarkK, J. J., Washington, D. C.: Parts |
of a telegraph relay (45161).
~CLemons, Dovuetas, U. S. National Museum: Landshells, freshwater shell, and amphipods from the District of Columbia and Chesapeake Beach (45051; 46135).
NAT Mus 1906——5
CLEemons, Dovetas, and FE. A. ScHWARz, U. S. National Museum: 2,000 insects collected in 1905 on Plummers Island (45668).
Cuinton, G. P., New Haven, Conn.: 50 specimens of economic fungi from North America (45064: exchange).
Ciunn, H. G., San Pedro Springs, via Temosachic, Mexico: Neuropterous insect, Chauliodes disjunctus (46108).
| CocKERELL, T. D. A., Boulder, Colo.: Co-
types of 2 species of landshells from Kingston, N. Mex. (44693); 10 specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera (44733) ; 4 moths, Phalonia felix, Thiodia tenuiana, Paltodora magnella, and Incurvaria n. sp. (45163).
Coker, Roserr E., Baltimore, Hawksbill turtle (45132).
Cotsy, J. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Small wooden dish or tray made by the natives of the Gilbert or King’s Mill group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean; also a photograph of trays and bowls (45747).
CoLEMAN, JoHN W., Selma, Ala.: 25 fossil echinoids (45948).
COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS, Columbia University, New York City: Collection of buman bones (45362: exchange).
Md.:
Cotirns, FrANK S., Malden, Mass.: 50 specimens of algze (44880; 45483: purchase).
Couuins, J. F., Providence, R. I.: 154 plants from the eastern section of Quebec (45776: purchase).
CoLonrIAL Company Porters, East Liverpool, Ohio: 3 pieces of pottery (45698).
CoLOoRADO STATE COMMISSION AT THE LoviIs1ANA PurcHASE Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from Colorado (44663).
CoMMERCE AND Lapor, DEPARTMENT OF: Hon. Victor Metcalfe, secretary.
Bureau of Fisheries: Type specimens
of fishes collected by the steamer Alba-
tross in Alaska waters (44660); 16 plants
from Norway, collected by Hugh M.
Smith (44746); fishes from the Illinois

<<<Page: 75>>>

CoMMERCE AND LABor, DEPARTMENT OF— Continued. River, collected by S. P.
Yes Bay, Alaska (44815); 63 plants collected near Yes Bay, Alaska (44886) ;
Bartlett (45811); 87 plants from the vicinity of |
_ CoMMERCE AND Lasor, DEPARTMENT OF—
fishes (44928); marine invertebrates, |
mollusks, insects, and reptiles (44954) ;
3 plants from Yes Bay, Alaska, collected |
by F. M. Chamberlain (45086); sponges collected in the Pacific Ocean by the Albatross-Agassiz Expedition of 1891 (45174); series of fresh-water fishes from Maine (45175); snake and frogs from Maine, collected by W. C. Kendall in Aroostook County (45180); mammals, birds, mollusks, and other invertebrates,
fossils, fish, and fiber-producing plants | collected by the Albatross and Fish |
Hawk in Japan, Alaska, the South Sea Islands, and Porto Rico (45248); fishing apparatus and gear, fossil material, and 2 valves of a giant clam (45276; fishes, mollusks, and other inyvertebrates from the German educational exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (45340); fishes, mollusks, and other invertebrates, also ethnological objects forming part of the Japanese
fisheries exhibit at the Louisiana Pur|
chase Exposition (45348); sponges from the Pacific Ocean (45351); 22 types of fishes collected by the Albatross among the Hawaiian Islands in 1902 (45353); insects, crustaceans, and shells
collected by J. W. Titcomb in Argen| tina (45361); Hawaiian fishes collected |
by the Albatross in 1902 (45365); isopods, including types of new _ species, collected at Porto Rico in 1899 by the Fish Hawk (45399); reptiles, fishes, insects, mollusks, and other invertebrates, plants, and skull of a mammal (45403), fishes, chiefly from Alaska (45404); fishes from various localities (45407); compound ascidian from Ellice Island, obtained by the Albatross Agassiz Expedition to the South Pacific in 1899 (45410); about 2,981 fishes collected by the Fish Hawk, Albatross, and Grampus, and also by Cloudesley Rutter and W. C. Kendall (45430, 45431, 454382); hammerless darting-gun No. 583, and implements
Continued. for taking blubber from a _ whale (45474); stony corals obtained during the Albatross-Agassiz Expedition to the South Pacific in 1904-5 (45482); fishes from the Hawaiian Islands, collected by D. 8. Jordan and B. W. Evermann, the Albatross, the Fur Seal Commission, and O. P. Jenkins (45495) ; fishes chiefly from the coast of California obtained by the Albatross in 1894 (45498); sponges collected by the Albatross off the coast of California in 1904 (45516); dried crustaceans (45517); 103 fishes from the Pacific Ocean principally obtained by the Albatross (45558); 309 fishes collected in Hawaiian waters by the Albatross in 1902 (45564); 101 fishes from Samoa, collected by D. 8. Jordan in 1902 (45565); 60 fishes from the
western section of Cuba, collected in —
March of 1902 by C. H. Eigenmann and O. Riddle (45583); 95 fishes collected in Hawaiian waters in 1902 by E. L. Berndt and others (45584) ; 5,772 fishes from the fresh waters of the northern part of California and the southern section of Oregon (45604) ; isopod, Meinertia, sp. from Kochi, Japan, collected by H. M. Smith (45620); 529 fishes collected in Massachusetts waters chiefly about Woods Hole (45639); 511 fishes, chiefly from the New England coast (45664); Hawaiian fishes (45679) ; type specimens of worms, Limnodrilus gracilis and Actinobdella —annectans (45751); barnacles, chiefly from the Hawaiian Islands and the AlaskaCalifornia coast (45770); mammals, birds, reptiles, fish eggs, insects, mollusks, and other invertebrates (45772); reptiles, plants, mollusks, and other invertebrates obtained by the Albatross during the Albatross-Agassiz Expedition tothe South Pacificin 1899-1900 (45786) ; fishes from Argentina, South America (45791); 78 Unionidee from Connecticut lakes, New Hampshire, coilected by W. C. Kendall and E. L. Goldsborough in 1904 (45800) ; fishes, including several types from Japan, Hawaiian Islands, and the Galapagos Islands (received from Leland Stanford Junior

<<<Page: 76>>>

ComMMERCE AND LABor, DEPARTMENT OF— Continued.
University (45856); mollusks from Samoa (received from Leland Stanford Junior University, (45873); types of new species of fishes from Japan and the Philippine Islands (45935); fishes collected by the Albatross in the North Pacific Ocean, principally in 1894 (45988); worms and other invertebrates, insects, and mollusks, including types, collected by the Alaskan Salmon Commission in 1908, by the Albatross off the coast of Japan in 1900, and in the Hawaiian Islands and off the southern part of California in 1902 (46055); 2 crabs, Potamocarinus, collected by 8. E. Meek at Lake Amatitlan, Guatemala (46080).
Conway, BEensamin, Anacostia, D. C.: Fifty-cent United States coin, issued in 1821 (45206: exchange).
Conzatri, C., Oaxaca, Mexico: 5 living
specimens of cacti (45863; 45829: ex| change); 10 living plants from Mexico |
(46054; 46072; 46086).
Cook, O. F., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: 2 plants from Guatemala (44632). Department of Agriculture. )
Cooper, JuAN, Cartago, Costa Rica: 5 |
birds’ skins from Costa Rica (44655). Coquitietr, D. W. G. Needham. ) Corsett, Miss Mary H., U. 8S. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.: Sword,
commission, and handkerchief of Lieut. |
Samuel Howard, pilot of the Monitor during its engagement with the Merrimac (45729: exchange).
Corey, J. M., and H. W. Mrrcuett, Sara|
toga, N. Y.: Piece of tufa from a mineral spring (45368).
Cosrer, Mrs. J. H. T., Blue, Ariz.: Pottery vase from Bear Creek (45824).
Corton, J. 8., Washington, D. C.: 4 living specimens of cacti (45146).
Covitie, F. V., Department of Agriculture: 2 plants, Franklinia alatamaha, from Maryland (44908). under Department of Agriculture. )
(See also under |
(See under James |
(See also |
Cox, L. N.: Specimen of coral, Porites,
| from the island of Guam (received through C. W. Hayes, U.S. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.) (45142).
CraneE, W. E., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 300 fossils from the Pleistocene rocks at Santa Barbara, Cal. (44812); 50 fossil coral sponges from the Jurassic of France (44832); 100 fossil sponges and bryozoans from the Cretaceous greensand, Faringdon, England (44861); European Paleozoic and Mesozoic fossils (44936). Exchange.
| CrawrorD, J.G., Albany, Oreg.: Skull of a beaked whale, Mesoplodon stejnegeri, from aspecimen stranded 13 miles south of the U.S. Life-Saving Station on South Beach, near Newport, Oreg. (45866: exchange); photograph of egg mass of sculpin (45876).
Crossy, C. R., University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.: Braconid (45825).
Crossy, F. W., San Diego, Cal.: Specimen of dumortierite from Alpine, Cal. (45767); samples of gold-bearing carbonate of lime from the mines of the Golden Harvest Milling and Mining Company, San Bernardino County, Cal. (46121).
| Crossy, M. Lewis, Boston, Mass.: 2 bul-
lets telescoped in flight (45871).
| Cross, WHITMAN.
(See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. ) | Cummines, Grorce F., New York City: Card of invitation extended by S. F. B. Morse to a private exhibition of his electro-magnetic telegraph, Jan. 24, 1838, and a message recorded by the apparatus on the same day (45891).
Curtis, CHARLES E. (Seeunder Mrs. Ann
A. Jeffcott. )
Curtiss, A. H., Jacksonville, Fla.: 226 plants from Cuba (45084: purchase). Cusick, Wi1LLrAm C., Union, Oreg.: Specimen of sumac, Schmaltizia, from Oregon (45359). (See also under Department
of Agriculture. )
Dati, Marcus, Washington, D. C.: 25 specimens of fresh-water shells from the Uintah Mountains, Wyoming (44773); 14specimens of fossil mollusk,

<<<Page: 77>>>

Dati, Marcus—Continued.
Planorbis utahensis, from the Eocene of the Uintah Mountains (44774); landand fresh-water shells from Utah (45346).
Dati, W. H., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: Japanese landshells (45150). (See also under A. L. Herrera. )
Damon, land: Colored cast of Australian mudfish, Ceratodus forsteri (45364: purchase).
Daruine, Wriitarpd 8., Harbor Springs, Mich.: Chippewa bark-and-quill work (45591).
Darron, N. H. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
DauautTrey, T. R. L., Jacksonville, Fla.:
2 skulls from a mound near Lake Oke|
chobee, Fla. (45030).
Davenport, Homer, Morris Plains, N. J.: |
Peacock pheasant, Polyplectron (45029) ; pheasant (45445).
Davipson, H. A. Hasse. )
(See under H. E.
Davis, C. Apsorr. (See under Roger Williams Park Museum).
Davis, E. D., Harrisonburg, Va.: Specimen of black marble (46069).
Rosert F., Weymouth, Eng|
Davis, T. A., Lakeland, Fla.: Bagworm, |
Thyriopteryx ephemereformis (46123). Davis, T. E. R., Baileyton, Tenn.: Pseudoscorpion, Chelifer cauceroides (45588). Davis, Witui1AM T., New Brighton, Staten Island, N. Y.: Cicada, Prunesis venosa (45408). Davison, L. C., Jacksonville, Fla.: Larvee of a tineid moth (44882).
Demnina, H. C. Porter. )
Denekas, Miss Gesine, Brightwood, I).C.: Collection of medals, gold, silver, copper, and base metal coins, also United States fractional currency (received through Henry Hensel, of Jeffersonville, Ind.) (11060: loan).
Depuy, A. B., Department of Agriculture Washington, D. C.: Carbonized wood with marcasite from a railroad excavation at First and M streets, Washington, D. C. (44775); 14 specimens of vivianite from Mullica Hill, N. J. (44972: exchange).
(See under Charles A.
Dr Riemer, W. E., Washington, D. C.:
Pair of jaws of asand shark, Odontaspis
littoralis (45106: collected for the Museum). | DEYROLLE, LES FILS p’EmitE, Paris,
France: Skeleton of a dodo, Didus ineptus, from the Marais aux Songes, Mauritius (45525: purchase). Dickerson, Miss M. C., Providence, R. L.: Toads from Cuttyhunk, Mass., and frogs from Seattle, Wash. (44946; 46079). Dirrz, W. G., Hazelton, Pa.: 27 cotypes of Microlepidoptera (45780). DinzuArRD, BucHanan, Helena, Mont.: Moth, Smerinthus cerysti (46106). DiuteEr, J. 8., U. S.. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.: Rocks and minerals from Europe and America (45230). Dirmars, R. L., New York Zoological Park, New York City: Horned toads from the northern part of Sonora, Mexico (45024; 45070).
Dov, F. H. W., Millarville, Alberta,
Day, W. T., Barboursville, Va.: Speci| | Dopar, Byron E., Davison, Mich.: Stone
men of graphite (44835).
Dream, ©. C., Bluffton, Ind.: 212 plants from Indiana (45135: exchange); seeds from Guatemala (45761).
Detear, H.8., Joseph, N. Mex.: 4 stone implements (45884).
Demarest, Miss E. E., Passaic, N. J.: 59 lantern slides, 147 negatives, diatoms, 22 photographs, and a lot of unmounted photographs, forming the collection of diatoms formerly. owned by Dr. Van Allen, of Albany, N. Y. (45990),
Canada: 99 moths (45637: exchange).
pestle and arrow point (11517: loan).
Doper, C: KK; Port) Huron, Michi specimens of a mollusk, Laciniaria, from near Port Frank, Lambton County, Ontario (44887); 17 plants from Michigan (45134).
Doper, Mrs. H. H., Mount Vernon, Va.: Relics of the Revolutionary war; war of 1812; and Mexican and Civil wars, which belonged to the late Gen. William Henry Browne (11275: loan).

<<<Page: 78>>>

Douan, J. J., U. S. National Museum: Ribbon badge, ribbon and metal badge of the Knights of Columbus (44675); Christian Endeavor badge of the Ohio Union at the International Convention,
1905 (44689); souvenir badge of Elks |
(colored) Reunion at Washington, D. C., in 1905 (44830). (See also under J. E. Lowe.)
Doran, P. V., Washington, D. C.: 5-cent silver Panama currency (45892).
Dot, J. J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 30 moths from Arizona (45393); 138 (45497).
Donaupson, Mrs. Lucy Orp, Bloomfield, N. J.: U. 8S. Army marksman’s badge, Department of Texas, and a life-saving
medal (45842); sword of Lieut. Jules |
Garesche Ord (45843).
Doria, Marquis G. (See under Genoa,
moths |
Italy, Museo Civico di Storia Naturale). |
Dorian, Franx, London, England: Specimen of ‘‘touch-money”’ of the time of Charles II (45285).
Dovauenrty, C. V., Baltimore, Md.: Specimens of opercula from Cavite, Luzon, Philippine Islands (45256) .
Dove.iass, Wiii1amM B., Washington, D. C.: Iron axe-blade found in a.shell
mound on the coast of Oregon (11403: |
loan).
DoweEt., Puixrp, Port Richmond, N. Y.: |
Plants from New Jersey and Pennsylyania (44931); (45812: exchange).
Doy ez, C. B. Agriculture. )
(See under Department of
Dratnarp, M., Golden, British Columbia:
Specimen of sodalite from Golden, re|
ceived through Charles M. Lea, of Philadelphia, Pa. (45297).
Drake, Mrs. Ina M., Alva, Okla.: Spider, Argiope transversa (fasciata), ‘‘Silverladder spider’’ (44846).
Duckworta, A. §., Cape Girardeau, Mo.: |
3 specimens of fossil echinoids (44952).
Dungeon, G. C.: About 2,000 specimens of butterflies from India (received through Sir George Hampson, British Museum of Natural History, London, England) (45262).
Ducks, A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Mollusk, sea urchin, Echinometra subangularis, and 2 aleyonarians (45151); plants from Mexico (45341).
Duxes, W.C., Mobile, Ala.: 13 ferns from Alabama (44942: exchange); 10 specimens of Pteridophyta from the Southern States (45269: exchange); 7 specimens of ferns, Botrychium, from near Mobile (45350); 10 specimens of ferns, Botrychium and Ophioglossum, from Alabama (45621: exchange).
Duntop, GrorGE, Chevy Chase, Md.: Grooved stone axe found near Chevy Chase Lake (45283).
Dury, CHARLES, Cincinnati, Ohio: 14 beetles (45218: exchange); 6 beetles, Lachnosterna vehemens, and Symbiotes sp. (45492).
Duvat, H. C., Washington, D. C.: Piece of worked soapstone from Anandale soapstone quarry, Fairfax County, Va., and 2 roughly worked leaf-shaped blades from Shea, Baltimore County, Md. (44862).
Dyan, EG: ham).
East, J. M., Manchester, N. H.: Badge of the Manchester Union (45784).
Eastwoop, Miss Auicr, California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, Cal.: 2 living specimens of cacti from Grand Junction, Colo. (45002) ; 5 living cacti from Arizona (45067: exchange); 2 umbelliferers from California and 5 ferns (45342; 45343); 24 plants from Grand Canyon, Ariz. (45354: exchange).
Eaton, A. A., North Easton, Mass.: 4 ferns from the United States and the West Indies (44697); 15 specimens of horse-tail, Equisetum, from North America (45481).
Epwin Bennett Porrery Company, Baltimore, Md.: Vase (45690).
(See under Lord Walsing-
Eean, Mark J., Clifton, Ariz.: Stone dish from Solomonyille, Graham County, Ariz. (45828).
Easert, J. Hopart, U. 8. Coast and Geodetic Survey, Washington, D. C.: 10 specimens of mollusk, Janthina striatula,

<<<Page: 79>>>

Easert, J. Hopart—Continued.
specimen of Cyprea araneosa, 2 of Cy|
prea caput-serpentis, and 6 of Cypriea maculata (45412); 9 photographs of a beaked whale, Ziphius, captured by the
crew of the steamer Patterson in Kiska |
Harbor, Alaska (45599); beak of a gray porpoise, Prodelphinus, a photograph of
the same, and the jaw of a shark, Car| charhinus sp. (45600); 3 birds’ skins, |
batrachians, and insects from Florida (45763); mammals, reptiles, batrachians, crustaceans, insects, and fishesfrom
Florida (45799); 6 living plants from | upper and lower jaws |
Florida (45858) ; and a photograph of a porpoise, Lagenorhynchus obliquidens, from Montague Strait, Prince William Sound, Alaska (45938) ; human skull from southeastern Alaska (46056). (See under Carnegie Institution. )
Exuters, E. H., Gottingen, Germany: Two photographs of skull of typeof bat, Megaderma gigas (45073). (See under Gottingen, Germany, University of Gottingen. )
EIGENMANN, C. H., Bloomington, Ind.: Skull of a porpoise from San Diego, Cal. (46110). (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries, and W. P. Hay.)
EvprinGcr, G. H. Department, U. S. Geological Survey. )
Eis, GEoRGE W., jr., secretary, Ameri|
can Legation, Monrovia, Liberia: Eth-
nological objects from the Vai-speaking |
peoples of West Africa (11122: loan).
Eis, SyLvester L., Provincetown, Mass. : Skeleton of an adult little-piked whale, Balenoptera acuto-rostrata, from Proyincetown (45524: purchase).
Eskes, LAWRENCE, Goliad, Tex.: Lunamoth, Actias luna (45754).
Emmons, Lieut. G. T., U. S. Navy, Princeton, N.J.: 2 African pipes and an arrow rasp from Washington State (45092: exchange).
Emmons, N. H., Bisbee, Ariz.: Copper ore from New Mexico (44695).
Encet, H., Pittsburg, Pa.: 121 moths (45510).
(See under Interior |
| Esconaur, Mrs. W. H., Terminal, Cal.: Specimens of mollusk, Cerostoma nuttalli, showing color variation (45571).
EstaciON CENTRAL AGRONOMICA. (See under Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba. )
Evans, A. W., New Haven, Conn.: 34 specimensof Pteridophyta (44913: loan); specimen of liverwort, Cronotolejeunea Bermudiana, from Bermuda (45480); 23 specimens of liverworts from Jamaica (44860).
Evans, Henry, Wauzeka, Wis.: Sample of onyx (45075).
Evermann, B. W., U.S. Bureau of Fisheries: 3 shrimps from San Francisco Mountains, Santo Domingo, West Indies, collected by August Busck (45139); fern from St. George’s Island, Bering Sea (45411). (See under De-
~ partment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Fatryrer, G. H., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of moss agate (44979).
Faircuitp, D. G., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: 86 beetles from the Malay Archipelago (44856).
FALt, H. C., Pasadena, Cal.: 2 beetles, Glycerius obtusus and Tachycellus turbatus (typical specimen) (45617: exchange).
| Farts, A. P., Clinton, Mo.: Larvaof moth,
Sphecodina abbottii (44721); longicorn
beetle, Orthosoma brunneum, from Provi-
dence, R. I. (44808) .
| Farwe t, O. A., Detroit, Mich.: 2 plants from Texas (45074).
Favite, Mrs. J. M., Fredericksburg, Va.: 5 moths of cutworms, Noctua clandestina (45098).
Fawcerr, WIviIAM. ston, Jamaica. )
(See under King-
FEATHERSTONHAUGH, THomAsS, Washington, D. C.: American watch movyement (45020); half-dollar of the issue of 1831 (45494); sample of monazite sand from Rutherford, N. C. (45820).
FELIPPONE, FLORENTINO, Montevideo, Uruguay, South America: 250 land, freshwater, and marine shells, and an echinoderm (44709).

<<<Page: 80>>>

Fetiows, F. F., McMinnville, Oreg.: 14
photographs taken in Alaska, received |
through M. W. Lyon, jr. (45120). Fenno, L. Carteret, Boston, Mass.: White-fronted goose, Anser albifrons gambeli, in immature plumage (45249). FrerNEKES, VAL., Milwaukee, Wis.: 13 moths (45119).
Fietp Museum or Narurat History,
Chicago, Ill.: Fishes from the fresh waters of Mexico and Ontario (44821: exchange); piece of Sherbourne me-
Forses, W. T. M., Amherst, Mass.: 44 Lepidoptera (45636: exchange).
Forney, E. O., Washington, D.C.: Speci-
men of piedmontite (manganese epidote) from Jacko Mountain, Franklin County, Pa. (46162).
Fox, W. H., Washington, D. C., and J. W. Hawks, Nimrod Hall, Va.: Eggs
of raven, Corvus corax principalis (45781). | Franck, Henry, Frankfurt-am-Main,
teorite weighing 578 grammes (44959: |
exchange); example of the Hargrave flying machine (45631); monkeys and bats from tropical America (45795: exchange).
Fretp, R., Washington, D. C.: Cocoon
of a moth of the family Cochlidiide, |
(45967).
Fintey, W. L., Portland, Oreg.: 39 birds’ |
eggs from Oregon (45129).
Fisner, A. K., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: from Cypress Point (45458).
FisHer, W. H., Baltimore, Md.: Snake, Natrix fasciata (45057).
Fiaae, Capt. Caarues E. B., U.S. Army ’ I ’ A ie
Malahe Island, Laguna, Philippine Islands: Larva, pupa, and adult of a house fly, Musca domesticus (44985).
Fiemer, J. A. (no address given): 58
plants collected at the headwaters of |
5 beetles |
the Chilkat River, Alaska (received |
through Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.), (45581). Fiemine, Rauston, N. Y. City: ‘‘The first ballot-box used by the Dakota Indians’’ (46083). Fuicx, G. W. H., West Salem, I[Il.: 15
land and marine mollusks from Nica|
ragua (44744).
Fiower, F. G., Seattle, Wash.: Seed of a leguminous plant and a few insects (44839).
Forses LirnoGrapH MANUFACTURING Company, Boston, Mass.: 12 lithographic prints of illustrations from the work entitled ‘‘Investigations and Studies in Jade,’’ by the late Heber R. Bishop (received through E. W. Roberts) (46009). ‘
Germany: Living specimen of stonecrop, Echeveria clavifolia (44890).
FRANKLIN, JosHua, Moseley, Ala.: Clay concretion (45529).
Freep, J. K., Scott, Kans.: Meteorite (45418: deposit); meteorite, weighing 1,170 grams, from Modoc, Kans. (46112: purchase).
FRENZEL, A. B., Denver, Colo.: Specimen of phonolite carrying telluride gold (44980). ;
FrrpourG, SwitzeRLAND, MusrE CanrToNAL: 508 plants from Switzerland (45226: exchange).
FRIEDENWALD, Mrs. JANE, Baltimore, Md.: Ethnological objects from the Egyptian Soudan, comprising musical instruments, spears, swords, iron-work, and leather-work (45514).
FRIEND, GILBERT H., Paw Paw, W. Va.: Long-sting, Thalessa lunator (44671). Frierson, L. S., Frierson, La.: 20 specimens of mussels, Unionidee, principally
from Japan and China (45444).
Frisumutn, Mrs. 8. S., Philadelphia, Pa.: A musical bow of the kind used in the Barbados; made in Philadelphia by a native of Barbados (45464: exchange).
| Fry, Waurer, Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: Plants from California (44981; 45006).
Furtonc, CHArLes W., White Plains, N. Y.: Piece of the wreck of the frigate Philadelphia, a framed chart of the harbor of Tripoli, and a pamphlet describing the finding of the wreck (44645).
Fur-sEAL Commission. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Gack, A. (See under Sibpur, Royal Botanic Garden. )
India,

<<<Page: 81>>>

Garczynsk1, E., Washington, D.C.: Concretion of ferruginous sand from Washsington, D. C. (45903).
GARDINER, J. SrANLEY, Cambridge, England: 22 recent corals from Cape Verde Islands (45144: exchange).
GarMAN, H., Lexington, Ky.: Plant from Kentucky (44926).
GARRETT, GEORGE, Ada, Ohio: Crabspider, Acrosoma rugosum (44772).
Gates, PETER G., Pasadena, Cal.: Archeological collection from New Mexico and Arizona (11823: loan).
Gates Portrertgs, Chicago, I1l.: 3 pieces of BY)
Teco pottery (45700).
Gaut, J. H. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Ger, N. Gist, Department of Science, Soochow. University, Soochow, China: 11 weevils, Desmidophorus confucii (46133)
Genoa, ITALY, MuskEo civico pi STorRIA |
Naturate: 51 batsfrom South America, Africa, Asia, and other localities (45585; 46000). Exchange. GEOGRAPHISCHES-ScHUL Musrum. (See under Seitenstetten, Lower Austria) .
GeorGE, R. D., University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo.: Specimens of phonolite from Bull Cnff and The Dillon, near
Victor, Colo. (44842); basalt from Yel|
lowstone National Park (44944); 100 specimens of Valmont dolerite (45733). Exchange.
GEORGETOWN, British GUIANA, BritisH |
Guiana Museum: 100 specimens of Coleoptera, 30 Lepidoptera, 31 Hymenoptera, and 6 Orthoptera (45853: exchange).
GEORGIA STATE COMMISSION AT THE LovuISIANA PURCHASE EXposiTIon: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from Georgia (44664).
GERMAN -EpUCATIONAL EXHIBIT AT THE LouIsIANA PURCHASE Exposition. (See
under Department of Commerce and | Gorman, M. W. (See under C. V. Piper.)
Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Gipson, Frank M., Westminister, Md.: Braconid insect, Doryctes (Bracon) exhalans (46102).
| GrrauLt, A. A., Myrtle,
GirrarD, W. A., Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands: 6 insects from Mt. Tantalus (45100).
GILBERT, B. D., Clayville, N. Y.: 2 mosses and a fern (44739).
GiLBertT, ©.8., Los Angeles, Cal.: 5 plants from California (45101).
Giicurist, D. M., U.S. National Museum: Frog, Rana pipiens (45155: collected for the Museum).
GrutetTte, C. P., Fort Collins, Colo.: 100 Lepidoptera (45559).
Ga.: 3 type
specimens of insect, Euluphus guttiventris
and 2 of Aphycus annulepes (45999).
| Girty, G. H., U. S. Geological Survey,
Washington, D.C.: 10 ferns from Texas (44629: collected for the Museum).
Gover, G. H., Middle Park, Colo.: Plant from Colorado (44768).
| Gorr, D.8., Metlaltoyuca, Mexico: Seed
of the Spanish cedar (44705). GotppacH, A., Pensacola, Fla.:
moth, Tropa luna (44700). Goupman, E. A.
ot Agriculture. )
Luna (See under Department
(See under Bureau of
GOLDSBOROUGH, RALSTON. Smithsonian Institution, American Ethnology. )
Go.psmiTH, J.S., U.S. National Museum: Great white egret, Herodias egretta (44902).
GoLL_, GrorGE P., Washington, D. C.: Insects from Central America (45966). (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Gomez, A. Da Costa, New York City: About 100 fresh-water shells from Central America (44829); motlusk, Bifidaria prototypus, from Guatemala (45888).
GoopWIN Potrery Company, East Liyerpool, Ohio: Apple-blossom vyase (45691).
Gorpon, W. W., Wasnington, D. C.: Lignite with pyrite found near the Capitol (45916).
GOTTINGEN, GERMANY, UNIVERSITY OF GOTTINGEN: Crustaceans (received through E. Ehlers) (45502: exchange).

<<<Page: 82>>>

. : | . : ; ;
; GRaTON, Be:
Gouip, C. N. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
(See under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey. )
Graves, G. H., South China, Me.: Smelt, Osmerus mordax (45848).
GREBEL, WENDLER AND Company, Geneva, Switzerland: Piece of the Kernouve meteorite weighing 567 grams (45987: exchange) .
GREELY, Gen. A. W., U. 8. Army, War Department, Washington, D. C.: 2 photographs of a humpback whale caught on_the Sitka-Valdez (Alaska) cable, November 6, 1904 (45018). (See also under War Department. )
GREENE, E. L., U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C.: 45 plants collected in New Mexico by O. B. Metcalfe (45290: purchase); 2 plants from the District of Columbia and vicinity (46022).
Greener, G. S., Los Angeles, Cal.: Nest and 4 eggs collected in Arizona, and believed to be Say’s phoebe, Sayornis saya (46079).
GREENFIELD, A. M., Gaines, Pa.: Luna
moth, Tropxa luna (46065).
Grecory, L. M., Manvel, Cal.: Specimen of Guteregia from California (44906). GrirFitus, Davip. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. ) Pasadena, Cal.: from California
GRINNELL, Forpyce, About 625 plants (44875: purchase).
Grinsted, C. W., Washington, D. C.: Hair worm, Gordius, from the filtration plant in Washington (45802).
Gr6nvyoLp, H., British Museum (Natural
History), London, England: Full-sized |
copy in oil of a painting of a dodo by a Dutch artist, the original in the British Museum (45523: purchase).
Grosvenor, D. A., Washington, D. C.: Hog-nosed snake from (46027 ).
Grout, A. J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Specimens of North American pleurocarpous mosses (45612: purchase).
GrueEBy FAreENcE Company, Boston, Mass. : Vase (45693).
GupGER, E. W.: Waynesville, N. C.: Microscopic slides showing the development of the pipe-fish (44784).
HackeL, E. (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
HAGENBECK, Cart, Hagenbeck’s Circus: Skin of a young male hippopotamus (45921).
Haun, W. L., U. 8. National Museum: 2 specimens of stonecrop, Sedum, from Virginia (44674; mammals, plants, mollusks, insects, and reptiles (44940); snake, Hutenia, from Bascom, Ind. (45145); lizard from Great Falls, Md. (45915). Collected for the. Museum.
Harnes, A. 8S., Westtown, Pa.: 236 plants from Pennsylvania and Maryland (45377 ).
HALBERSTADT, Barirp, Pottsville, Pa.: Fossil plants, Muriopteris inflata, from Vaughan, W. Va. (45520).
Hau, H. M., Berkeley, Cal.: 119 plants from California (45274); 7 specimens of plants, Cotyledon saxosum, trom California (46006). Exchange.
Hampson, Sir GeorGe F. (See under G. C. Dudgeon, and London, England, British Museum of Natural History. )
Hancock, JosepH L., Chicago, Ill.: 4 cotypes of Orthoptera (45217: exchange).
Harper, WILLIAM, Savannah, Ga.: Carrion-flower, Stapelia variabilis (45224).
Harper, Joon B. (See under Department of the Interior, Office of Indian Affairs. )
Harper, R. H., Afton, Ind. T.: Horned toad (44827).
Harper, R. M., University, Ala.: 2 plants, Harperia nodosa, from Georgia (45317); plant from Georgia collected by S. W. McCallie (46087).
| Harris, W., Hope Gardens, Kingston,
Maryland |
Jamaica, West Indies: Bat, Noctilio (44711); tree-frogs, grasshopper, fern, and crab (44891); 5 specimens of crustacean, Sesarma bidentatum, and specimens of cypronodont fish (45334). HarsHBercer, Jonn W., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.: 215 plants from Pennsylvania (45085).

<<<Page: 83>>>

Harr, J. Epwarp, Miami, Fla: 2 lid worms, Nereis (46113).
Hassrouck, Lieut. R. De Lancey, U.S.
Navy, San Francisco, Cal.: Cassidid |
beetle (44698).
Hassr, Dr. H. E., U. 8S. Army, Soldiers’ Home, Cal.: 4 living plants from California collected by Doctors Hasse and H. A. Davidson (46073).
Hassrz, Paut, Senaht, Alta Vera Paz,
Guatemala, Central America: Reptiles, | batrachians, and beetles from Guate|
mala (44790; 44796).
HatcuH, Mark B., Ponce, Porto Rico:
Sword presented to Brig. Gen. J. P.
Hatch by the officers of the Fifth New | York and First Vermont Cavalry, Oc-
tober 31, 1862 (11511: loan).
Hawkins, J. P., jr. (See under W. H. Fox. ) Hay, W. P., Howard University, Wash-
ington, D. C.: 2 hermaphroditic cray-
fishes, Cambarus affinis and C. propin| quus (45675); frogs from Cuba obtained | | Herrera, A. L., City of Mexico, Mexico:
by C. H. Eigenmann (45914). Haynes, D. F., & Son, Baltimore, Md.: Vase (45688). Haynes, FRANK R. pottery received from the following firms were transmitted through Mr. Haynes: Colonial Company Potters; Edwin Bennett Pottery Company; Gates Potteries; Goodwin Pottery Company; Grueby Faience Company; D. F. Haynes & Son; Homer Laughlin China Company; International Pot-
tery Company; Norse Pottery Com|
pany; G. E. Ohr; Pope Gosser China Company; A. W. Robertson; Roseville Pottery Company; Sevres China Company; J. 8. Taft & Co.; C. C. Thompson Pottery Company; Van Briggle Pottery Company; Company; Warwick China Company; Willets Manufacturing Company ).
Heacock, Epwarp R., Wyncote, Pa.; Fern from Pennsylvania (45273).
Heap, W. G., Shelby, N. C.: Monazite ore and monazite sand (46125).
Hempreman, C. W. H. (See under Depart-
The accessions of | 5 ( | Herrick, GLENN W., Agricultural Col-
Wheatly Pottery |
ment of Agriculture, and War Depart|
ment, Signal Corps.)
anneHerrbremann, O., Department of Agricul-
ture: 2 land shells from the District of Columbia (45050); 2 types of bug, Corythuca pergandei (45300) ; 3 types of bugs, Aradidze (5 specimens) (46117). (See also under Department of Agriculture.)
HergHway, A. E., Guaracabulla, Cuba: Gold ore and small agates from Cuba (45446) .
He LBerstapt, Barrp. Hudson Smith. ) Heuer, A. A., Los Gatos, Cal.: 400 plants principally from California (45601;
45670). Purchase.
Henverson, J. G., Chicago, Ill.: Specimens from a mound near Naples, IIL, and from the surface near the Illinois River (45550: exchange).
Henpiey, H. W., U.S. National Museum: Copper two-cent piece issued in 1867, United States currency (44837).
HensHAW, SAMUEL. (See under Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. )
(See under Henry
Mexican land and fresh-water mollusks (received through W. H. Dall and L. O. Howard) (45115).
lege, Miss.: 2
(44737). Herrick, Mrs. H. B.
Langley, estate of.)
insects from Mississippi (See under 8. P.
Hess, Frank L. (See under Piedmont Mining Company.)
Hewes, Joun W., Chester, Pa.: Archeological specimens (44967).
Hewett, E. L., Bureau of American Ethnology, Washington, D. C.: Indian war-clubs (11232: loan); 20 crania (45899: exchange). (See also under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau American Ethnology ).
Hewitt, Jonn. (See under Sarawak, Borneo, Sarawak Museum. )
Hit, E. J., Chicago, Ill.: 2 specimens of thorns, Crategus, from type trees in Illinois (received through Mrs. Agnes Chase) (45185).
Hituman, F. H., Washington, D. C.: 9 specimens of Trifolium from Maryland (45061).

<<<Page: 84>>>

Hrrase, Y., Karasumaru, Kyoto, Japan: 58 archeological objects (45019: ex| change); 409 mollusks from Japan (45153: purchase); crabs from Japan | (45171: exchange).
Hirz, Joun, Washington, D. C.: Piece of | zine, a portion of the first piece produced in the United States from American ore (1835) (45314).
Hocuperrrer, GeorGr, Flagstaff, Ariz.: Living specimens of stone-crop Echeveria, from Arizona (45447); 15 plants from near Agua Caliente, Cal. (45624); living plant from Arizona (45814); 2 living plants from Bradshaw Moun| tains, Arizona (45910: exchange).
Hope, CHARLEs W., Baltimore, Md.: Spray of crimson rambler infested with aphids (45998).
Hopson, E. R., Woodland Park, Colo.: Living plant from Colorado (46088).
Ho.pen, R. J., Blacksburg, Va.: 5 specimens of Clinton rock with fossils from | Estell, Ga. (45388).
Hotiypay, JoHn W. A. Killie. )
Hoim, TxHeropor, Brookland, D. C.:: | Specimen of rush, Juncus, from Bodega Bay, Sonoma County, Cal. (44907).
Hotway, E. W. D., University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.: 40 specimens of fungi from North America (46075: exchange).
(See under Charles
Houzincer, J. M., Winona, Minn.: 60 | mosses (44975; 45722). Purchase.
Homer LAuGHLIN CHINA Company, East Liverpool, Ohio: 3 vases (45696).
Honotutu, Hawaran Istanps, BisHop Museum: 141 recent corals from the Hawaiian Islands (44637: exchange).
Hore GARDENS. Jamaica. )
Hopkins, 8. C., Isabella, Cal.: 7 plants collected on the Brackenridge range, Kern County, Cal. (44735). |
Horn, F.C. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
HornunG, J., Menlo Park, Cal.: 5 bats | and a spider (45004); skeleton of barnowl, Strix pratincola (45118); 3 moles and 10 hats (45158); 3 earwigs (45159); 3 bats from California (45595).
(See under Kingston,
Houau, Water, U.S. National Museum: Flea from a prairie-dog found 54 feet under ground, N. H. Ranch, Apache County, -N. Mex. (44819); volcanic bomb and fossils from Salt Lake, Socorro County, N. Mex. (45023: collected for the Museum); archeological specimens, human and animal bones, and plants (45821: collected through the cooperation of the Museum and Peter Goddard Gates (second expedition).
Hovuenton, C. O., Newark, Del.: Masked duck, Nomonyx dominicus, from Maryland (45960).
Houss, H. D., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Plants collected in the vicinity of Washington, D. C. (44937); dried barnacles from Chesapeake Beach (45798) ; 43 specimens of clover, Trifolium, from Europe (45939: exchange).
House or RerormMation, Cheltenham, Md.: Bald eagle, Halizxtus leucocephalus (received through John B. Pyle, superintendent) (45762).
| Housron, ANDREW J., Beaumont, Tex.:
Telescopeand gold-headed cane of Gen. Antonio de Lopez deSanta Anna (11379: loan, in behalf of the descendants of Gen. Samuel Houston).
Howarp, L.O. (See under William Brodie, Carnegie Institution, and A. L. Herrera. )
Howe, Ernest. (See under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey. ) Howeti, ARTHUR. (See under Depart-
ment of Agriculture. )
Howe tt, A. H., Runge, Tex.: 3 specimens of Croton (44912). (See also under Department of Agriculture).
HowE tt, E. E., Washington, D.C.: 2 specimens of serpentine from Montville, N. J. (45419: exchange).
HrouicKa, Aues, U.S. National Museum: White fetus; colored fetus; negro newborn child and a fetus of a negro (44841; 44897; 45315: collected for the Museum); sponges, sea-urchins, and gorgonian from Casey’s Key, Fla.; marine shells from Florida (45752; 45779). (See under Alfred Beutenmuller, and Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology.)

<<<Page: 85>>>

Hupparp, H. G. Schwarz. )
Huser, Srmon G., Mays Landing, N. J.: 2 mollusks, Sphxrimus, from New Jersey (45165).
Hunter, Byron. of Agriculture. )
Hunter, Tuomas L., King George Court
(See under Department |
House, Va.: Larvaof moth, Megalopyge |
opercularis (44909). Horter, Jutus, Sr., St. Louis, Mo.: Reptiles and batrachians (45724).
Jacks, Mrs. Amatiz, Panzés-Senahu, Alta | Vera Paz, Guatemala, Central America: | 54 Lepidoptera from Guatemala (44795). |
Tearra, Sefior FEpERIco VipeLa, Esta| cion de Maipu, Chile, South America: |
Birds, insects, and mammals (45309);
miscellaneous collection of insects (45867). Exchange. Isima, 1. (See under Science College,
Imperial University, Tokyo, Japan.)
INGERSOLL, C. M., Bayou Labatre, Ala.: |
Electric light bug, (44703).
Instituto Fistco-GEOGRAFICO NACIONAL. |
(See under San José, Costa Rica.) Interior, DEPARTMENT OF, Hon: E. A. Hitchcock, Secretary. Ores from the Alaskan exhibit at the Lewis and Clark Exposition (45466). Office of Indian Affairs: F. E. Leupp, Commissioner; remains of fossil verte-
brates from the dam on the Zuni Reser|
Benacus griseus |
vation, forwarded by J. B. Harper, | superintendent of irrigation, Zuni Res-
ervation, Zuni, N. Mex. (45178).
U. S. Geological Survey: Charles D. Walcott, Director; fossil bones collected by Willis T. Lee in the Red Lands of the Staked Plains, eastern part of New Mexico (44836); vertebrate fossils from the Triassic Dockum beds, obtained by C. N. Gould, 18 miles southeast of Canyon City, Tex. (44901); 2 brate fossils from Fairbanks and Upper
verte|
Cleary creeks, Alaska (45088); rocks | from Tacoma, Washington quadrangle, | obtained by Bailey Willis and G. O. |
Smith (45149); rocks from Needle Mountain quadrangle, Colorado (45179); hubnerite from the hubnerite
(See under E. A. | Intertor, Department or—Continued.
mine near Osceola, Ney. (45201); basalt and hornblende-andesite from California (45214); fossil teeth from Teruary deposits 3 miles south of Iron Mountain Station, Wyo., collected by N. H. Darton (45243); fossil turtle from the Bad Lands of South Dakota, collected by N. H. Darton (45251); Cretaceous and Tertiary fossils collected by L. W. Stephenson from and near Cape Fear River, North Carolina (45267); Tertiary fossils from near Minidoka, Idaho, collected by F. C. Horn (45279); shell limestone collected in Florida by the late G. H. Eldridge (45295); rocks from Marysville district, Montana, collected by W. H. Weed (45296); fish remains from the Tertiary of Sanpete, Utah, collected by G. B. Richardson (45379); Mesozoic fossil plants described by Lester F. Ward in Monograph XLVIII of the Survey (45415); fuller’s earth from Attapulgus, Ga. (45455); Miocene foraminifera from the Monterey shale of California, described and figured by Rufus M. Bagg, jr., for Bulletin 268 of the Survey (45501); rocks from the Kenova quadrangle, Kentucky, collected by W. C. Phalen (45560); 4 minerals from Colorado, namely, native tellurium, zunyite, and chalcedony (45569); nevadite from Chalk Mountain, Colorado, collected by Whitman Cross (45576); 2 specimens of brecciated chlorite schist from Animas Canyon, collected by Ernest Howe (45592); Upper Cretaceous fossils ( vertebrates, invertebrates, and _ plants) from Judith River beds (45730) ; Pleistocene fishes from Truckee Canal, near Hazen, Nev. (45787); rock containing the rare mineral ‘‘emmonsite’’ from Cripple Creek district, Colorado (45807); 24 species of mollusks collected by T. Wayland Vaughan from a shell mound at Osprey, Fla. (45859); 315 rocks and ores from Cripple Creek district, Colorado, collected by Waldemar Lindgren and F. L. Ransome; also duplicate material (45885); sample of lead ore in limestone from Missouri (45911); 2coralsfrom Florida, obtained by T. Wayland Vaughan (45965); 76

<<<Page: 86>>>

Interior, DEPARTMENT OF—Continued. rocks, minerals, and ores from the western section of Kentucky, repre| senting lead, zine, and fluorspar deposits | (45968); 237 rocks and ores from the Clifton quadrangle, Arizona, collected by -Waldemar Lindgren (46042); 18 | minerals from the Clifton-Morenci district, Arizona, collected by Waldemar Lindgren (46043); 183 specimens from the gold belt of the Blue Mountains, Oregon, collected by Waldemar Lindgren (46049) ; 84 rocks from Bitterroot range of Idaho and Montana, collected by Waldemar Lindgren (46077); 51 rocks and ores from the central portion of the Carolinas, collected by L. C. Graton (46109).
INTERNATIONAL Porrery Company, Trenton, N. J.: Yellow pitcher or jug (45686).
JACKSON, Hon. Joun B., American minister, Athens, Greece, Newark, N. J.: 2 pieces of Bulgarian carpet (44873: purchase ).
JAMmrEs, Mrs. C. M. M. J., Washington, D. C.: Telescope of Rear-Admiral Theodorus Bailey, used at the surren| der of the city of New Orleans (45945). —
James, Mrs. Jut1an, Washington, D. C.: ( 15 photographs of the Myers-Mason family (45493); snuff-box (in case) made from an oak rafter that supported the roof of the Hall of Independence (10949: loan); collection of MyersMason family heirlooms (11244: loan).
JAPANESE FISHERIES EXHIBIT LovuistANA PuRCHASE EXPosITION. under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries).
AT THE (See |
Jerrcorr, Mrs. Ann A.: Upright piano, | made by Debain, of Paris, /rance, with 12 boxes of musical attachments (transmitted through Charles E. Curtis, New Haven, Conn., executor of estate (44953: bequest).
JEFFRIES, THomas N., Saltillo, Mexico: 2 living specimens of Crassulaceze, Echeveria, from Mexico (45255).
JENINGS, JEFFERSON H., Washington, D.C. :
Pipe of black slate, mended with lead (45021).
JENKINS, O. P. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries).
JENNEY, C. E., Fresno, Cal.: About 30 fresh-water mollusks, marine mollusks, 4 species of insects, 25 isopods, Porcel-
lio levis; 16 shells (45768; 45777; 45887; 45890; 45901). JENTINK, F. A., Leiden, Holland: 6
photographs of skulls of bats, Callinyeteris rosenbergii and Cynopterus melanocephalus (44896).
JerMy, Juuius, San Antonio, Tex.: 19 moths (44704); 60 beetles (44715).
Jessup, A. C.,Grayson, Utah: Ear of corn found beneath the clay floor of a small house at Wickiup Cafion, San Juan County, Utah (45870).
JeEweETr, STANLEY G., Portland, Oreg.: Chipmunk from Troutlake, Washington (45471).
JoHN, ANDREW, Washington, D. C.: 3 small vases and 2 pipes, samples of the work in pottery-making of the Catawba
Indians of South Carolina (44911); photograph of Andrew John, sr. (44947).
Jouns Hopxriys University, Baltimore, Md.: Brains of negroes and _ fetuses
~ (received through Frank P. Mall) (45563).
Jounson, C. W., Boston. Mass.: 2 specimens of Strombus from Nicaragua (44995).
Jounson, Lieut. F. C., U. S. Army, Albay, Philippine Islands: Leaf insect (44692). |
| Jonnson, R. H., Cold Spring Harbor,
N. Y.: 6 birds’ skins from Washington (45545).
Jounson, W. W., Memphis, Tenn.: Ball covered with cactus spines, taken from a cow’s stomach (45252).
Jones, Henry, Blue, Ariz.: Skull of grizzly bear (45822).
Jones, J. T., Tacoma, Wash.: Gold on pyrite from the southeastern part of Alaska (46111: purchase).
| Jorpan, A. 8., Whitehall, Md.: Tour-
maline from Baltimore County, Md. (44978).

<<<Page: 87>>>

JORDAN, Davin 8. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Jouy, Mrs. M.S. F., U. S. National Museum: Ethnological objects from Japan and Mexico, collected by the late Pierre L. Jouy (44725).
Kain, Jonn, Matagorda, Tex.: Pteroped mollusks, Cresis aciculata, from Texas (45278).
Kautruss, J., Nurnberg-Schweinau, Germany: 92 plants (46016: exchange).
Kerarrorr, W. D., Montclair, N. J.: 11 moths (44732); 164 moths from North and South America (45394); 98 moths (45420).
Kearney, T. H., Department of Agriculture: 6 plants from Plummers Island, Md. (44736); 38 plants from Plummers Island (45000); 2 plants from South Dakota, Means (450382).
mens of mollusks, Physa ancillaria, from Meach Lake, near Ottawa (45933).
KEENAN, MicHart, Springer, N. Mex.: Beetles, Tenebrio molitor (46064).
KELLERMAN, W. A., Plant from Guatemala (45254: exchange); 41 plants from Guatemala (45293: exchange); 8 fresh fruits of
Kern, D. N., Allentown, Pa.: Small, leaf-shaped blade of jasper, and a triangular arrowpoint found near Vera Cruz Jasper mines, Lehigh County, Pa. (45207).
Kesrer, VAUGHAN and Paut, Accotink, Va.: Mounted heads of large game animals, skins, guns, and ethnological objects (44635). ‘
| Kew, Lonpon, Enauanp: Roya Boran-
collected by T. H. |
Columbus, Ohio: |
Pereskia from El Rancho, Guatemala |
(45530); 39 plants from Guatemala (46760: exchange).
KeELiy, Luter S., San Carlos, Ariz.: 12 |
bulbs from Arizona (45828).
Kenpatt, W. C. (See under Depart-
ment of Commerce and Labor, Bureau
of Fisheries. )
KENNEDY, Harris, Roxbury, Mass.: 2 |
bats from Japan and 2 from Bonin Island (45205).
KENNEDY, P. B. of Agriculture. )
Kentucky STATE COMMISSION AT THE
(See under Department
LouristANA PURCHASE EXPosITION: Ores |
and nonmetallic minerals from Kentucky (44665).
ICAL GARDENS: Piece of the type specimen of a plant from Mexico, and 2 drawings (45847: exchange).
KILLIE, CHARLES A., Peking Presbyterian Mission, Paoting-fu, China: Mauser rifle (with 2 shells and 50 Mauser bullets) captured at the siege of Peking (re ceived through John W. Hollyday) (45586).
Kivparrick, Mrs. Luisa V. pr, Santiago de Chile, South America: Collection of relics of the late Judson Kilpatrick U.S. Army (46071).
E : | Kine, Miss Mary R., Great Neck, Long KEELE, JosEePH, Ottawa, Canada: 12 speci| } : gens Neck, Long
Island, N. Y.: Pupa of large yellow
and black butterfly, Papilio turnus (44845). Kine, Witiiam A., Cleveland, Ohio:
Badge worn by the donor in 1860, during the political campaign of Abraham Lincoln (45785).
Kineston, JAMAICA, HoPprE GARDENS: 26 living specimens of cacti from Jamaica (received through N. L. Brivton, New York Botanical Garden) (46094: exchange).
KrrK, Epwin J., Columbia University, New York City: Bryozoans from the Trenton rocks of Canada (46011).
KrrkLANp, A. H., Boston, Mass.: 3 parasites of Gypsy-moth, Chalcis flavipes (44727).
Kross, C. Boprn, Singapore, Straits Settlements: 32 mammals from Batam Island and Singapore (received through W. L. Abbott) (45405); skull of 2 pigs from Johore (45499: exchange); shrew, centipede, and skeleton of a bird (received through W. L. Abbott) (46063); mammals from the Malay Peninsula (46091). (See under W. L. Abbott.)

<<<Page: 88>>>

Kyas, Frepertck, U. 8. National Museum: Schizopods from Costa Rica.
(45229) ; 24 beetles and a lace-winged |
fly (45669). (See under Carnegie Institution ).
Kwapp, GEORGE B. Blackmar).
(See under W. W.
Kweucker, A. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Knicut, O. W., Bangor, Me.: 4 plants from California and New Mexico
~——e—
Knorr, Frep., Lebanon, Pa.: 75 plants from Pennsylvania (45001).
Kwnowtes, J. D., Port Huron, Mich.: Plant from Michigan (received through Department of Agriculture) (45072).
Kouter, MaxJ. (See under Smithsonian
Institution. )
KosTROMETINOFF, GEORGE, Sitka, Alaska: Suit of armor worn by Alexander Baranoff, first Russian governor of Alaska,
and a lithographic portrait of Governor |
Baranoff (45931). Kortinsky, Jacos, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands: 25 insects (45203); 11 Dip-
tera from India and the Hawaiian IsAS
lands (46081). Giffard. ) Kunze, R. E., Phoenix, Ariz.: ‘Larva of Copidryas cosyra (44864). La Friescue, Francis, Washington, D.C.: Skull of Omaha medicine man (44748). Laine, Atva E., Detroit, Mich.:
(See under W.
(45575); skeleton and brain of a negro (45805) .
Lamp, R. P., Davenport, Iowa: Moth, |
Spilosoma virginica (46067).
Lamson-ScrisBner, F. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Lanpers, Miss Cora, Nevada City, Cal.: Lepidoptera (44892).
LanGuey, estate of S. P.: Fetish from Santa Ana, N. Mex. (received through Mrs. H. B. Herrick) (45746).
LatHam, Harry. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Hali| dollar, Columbian issue, 1893 (45441). | Lams, D. S., Army Medical Museum, | Washington, D. C.: Human skeleton |
| LaurEeNT, Puinrp, Philadelphia, Pa.: 4 | specimens of orthopterous insect, Tenodera sinensis (45902) .
Lea, CHARLES M. ard. )
(See under M. Drain-
Leacu, Freperick, New York City: 12 old watch movements; (10911; 11047; 11521). Loant
Leg, Ira T., Thrace, Ark.: 2 specimens of rat-tail maggots, probably Mallota posticata (45264).
Ler, Wiis T. (See under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey. )
Lerroy, H. Maxwe.t, Pesu, India: Parasitic Hymenoptera (44895; 45434). Leier, Henry, Alva, Okla.: 2 madstones
(11133: loan).
LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY, Stanford University, Cal.: Fishes collected by P. O. Simons in Ecuador and Peru (45554); fishes collected by G. A. Lung in Manila, Cavite, and adjacent
localities (45855); Japanese fishes obtained by Robert V. Anderson (45618).
Lempkey, WAtLreER I., Washington, D.C.: Short-eared owl, Asio accipitrinus, and Richardson’s owl, Cryptoglaux richardsoni, from St. Paul Island, Alaska (45462).
Lenox, J., Holder, Fla.: Beetle, Strategus antus (44998).
Lercuen, F. H., Deming, N. Mex.: Specimens of lerchenite (45335).
Leupp, F. E. (Seeunder Interior Department, Office of Indian Affairs. )
Lewis, G. H., Washington, D. C.: Crystal of rutile from Chester County, Pa. (45830).
Lippey GuLass Company, Toledo, Ohio: Exhibit of glassware, showing process of manufacture (44943). Lig-PetrerseN, O. J., Bergen, Norway:
| 6 specimens of bumblebee, Bombus
smithianus, from Radoen, near Bergen, western Norway (45328).
| Linny, B. V.: Stone celt and bones from | mounds southwest from Tallulah, La. (received through Department of Agri | culture, Washington, D. C.) (45123).

<<<Page: 89>>>

LINDGREN, WAtpeMAR, U. 8. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: Skull of skunk, Mephitis (45202). (See also under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey.)
Linpsey, J. C., Ravenna, Ohio: Silver case watch (45451).
Lipg, CLARENCE, Los Angeles, Cal.: Pleis|
tocene fossils from San Pedro, Cal. (44767: exchange).
Luoyp, C. G., Cincinnati, Ohio: 2 specimens of oak, Quercus Leana (received through Department of Agriculture)
(45531).
Lonnon, EnGuanp, British Musrum b) ’ (Narurau History): 74 mammals |
(44770); 14 species of Irish Cumacea |
(45963). Exchange.
Lone, Joun P., Springfield, Mass.: 8 |
flies, parasitic on deer (45204).
7 photographs of gourds (45450).
Lovetr, Epwarp, Croydon, England: 3 | originals and 3 models of ethnological | objects from the southern part of Wales |
| McConnett, W. R.
and England (45562); set of Maundy money of 1906 (46127). Exchange. Lows, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: Crustaceans from the southern part of California (45489; 46104). Exchange. Lowe, J. E., Duluth, Ga.: Ribbon badge of the Seventh Regiment of Georgia Volunteers, C. S. A. (44806).
Lucas, F. A., Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2 turtles from Plymouth, Mass. (44958).
Lucus, Leopotp, Washington, D. C.:
Fossil wood from near the Reform |
School Washington, D.C. (45838).
Luptow, Miss C. L., Office of the Surgeon-General, Marine-Hospital Service, Washington, D. C.: Insects from the Philippine Islands (45764; 46058. )
Lune, G. A. (See under Leland Stanford Junior University. )
LuscHan, Fretrtx von, Berlin, Germany: Skin-color tablet for determining the
color of the skin in the different races (45570).
| McDonaup, WILLIAM.
| Lyon, W. S.
LooKaBILL, ALFRED, Crawfordsville, Ind.: | McCautiz, S. W.
Lyon, M. W., Jr., U. S. National Museum: Mammals, birds, plants, and a. frog from Oregon and California (45472; 45713). Collected for the Museum. (See under F. F. Fellows. )
Lyon, M. W., Jr:, and J. EK. Brenepicr, U. S$. National Museum: Mammals, plants, reptiles, mollusks, crustaceans, birds, and fishes from Oregon (45099: collected for the Museum).
| Lyon, Vicror W., Jeffersonville, Ind.:
Devonian fossils from the Falls of the
Ohio (45177: exchange).
(See under Department of Agriculture. )
McAtrr, W. L., and A. M. Banta, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: 24 specimens of salamander, Spelerpes maculicaudus from Mayfield’s Cave, Bloomington, Ind. (45247).
(See under R. M. Harper. )
McCann, Jasper K., Zanesville, Ohio: Neuropterous insect, Corydalis cornuta (46103).
(See under Pennsylvania State College).
McCown, R. M., Saginaw, Ark.: Spider, Acrosoma rugosa (44710).
(See under De-
partment of Agriculture).
| McDowe tt, J. A., City of Mexico, Mex-
ico: 21 plants from Mexico (46010). McEuuosr, Henry ‘A., St. Louis, Mo.: 36 moths (45395: exchange).
| McGer, Anita Newcoms, Washington,
D. C.: Skull of an Aino (45880: purchase).
McGer, W J (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. )
McGreeor, R. C., Palo Alto, Cal.: Reptiles, batrachians and erustaceans from the Philippine Islands (45167); marine shells from the Hawaiian Islands (45211); 3 birds’ skins, Falco peregrinus pealei; Puffinus tenuirostris and Actodromas minutilla (45478: deposit). (See under Manila, Philippine Islands, Bureau of Agriculture. )

<<<Page: 90>>>

McKaie, JosepH F., Washington, D. C.: White fetus (brain and _ skeleton) (44840).
McLacHuaNn, ARGYLE, Victoria, Tex.: 4 ants (44691); 90 insects from cotton fields in Guatemala (45426).
McLacuian, R. W. (See under Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Montreal. )
McLavueuuin, C., Robbins, Mich.: 2 western great horned owls, Bubo virginianus occidentalis (45437; 45645).
McLean, Mrs. Donatp. (See under National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution. )
McMir1an, W. N., London, England: Mounted Bongo antelope, Boocercus euryceros (45364).
McPue_erson, J. D., Andalusia, Ala.: Centipede, Scutigera forceps (44974).
MacDonatp, M. E., Guanajuato, Mexico: Specimen of quartz replacing dolomite (45716).
Macraruane, J. M., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.: 4 specimens of pitcher plant, Sarracenia, from Mississippi (46029: exchange).
MacKErI.e, Lucy V., Chevy Chase, Md.: Spider, Lycosa fatifera (44994).
Macoun, J. -M. (See under Ottawa, Canada, Geological Survey of. )
Matt, Frank P. (See under Johns Hopkins University. )
Ma.tett, J. W., University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Va.: Allenite from
Amherst, Va., and volcanic ashes from | Vesuvius, Italy, representing various |
eruptions (45905).
Matong, R. A., Jr., Culebra, Panama: Clearwing moth, Sania xagrus (44838).
Maniza, PHILipPrIne IsuaNpDs:
Bureau of Agriculture: 217 plants col-
lected by R. C. McGregor (44900): Bureau of Science: 2 beetles (received through Charles 8. Banks) (45547).
Marworr, Frep., Oak Station, Pa.: Moth, Gla signata (45556); 6 moths (45635: exchange).
NAT Mus 1906——6
MARSHALL, GEORGE, U. S. National Museum: 1-cent piece, United States currency, issue of 1902 (45453); skull and hoof of horse from Laurel, Md. (45526).
MarsHati, Miss JosepHinr, Anacostia, D. C.: Pearl from a common oyster (45839).
MarstTELuterR, Miss Pautine, Thoroughfare, Va.: Set of English china, consisting of 38 pieces (11113: loan).
MaRsTELLER, Miss Pavunine, and A. A. MarstEtter, Thoroughfare, Va.: Silverware which belonged to Col. Philip Marsteller, of General Washington’s staff (113808: loan).
Marvet, W. OD., Taunton, “‘Mummified mouse’’ (45357).
Mass.:
Mason, O. T., U. S. National Museum: 4 silver coins, United States currency, namely, 2 half dollars of the issues of 1903 and 1904, and 2 quarter dollars of the issues of 1898 and 1904 (45513) ; silver half dollar, United States currency, in 1828 (45709).
Maxon, W. R., U. 8S. National Museum: 10 plants from the eastern section of the United States (44792); plants from the District of Columbia (44999); specimen of fern, Botrychium, from Connecticut (45272). Collected for the Museum.
Maxweti, J. W., Austin, Tex.: Scarabeeid beetle (45995).
Maynarp, G. C., U. S. National Museum: Photograph of an oil portrait of William Hale Maynard in the city hall of Buffalo, N. Y. (45475).
Means, T. H. (See Kearney. )
Mearns, Dr. E. A., U. S. Army, Manila, Philippine Islands: Pair of wooden sandals (45028); rats and shrews from the vicinity of Manila (45567); mammals, birds, fishes, marineinvertebrates, mollusks, and ethnological objects from Guam and Manila (45789); natural history specimens and ethnological objects from the Philippine Islands (45912); mammals, birds, reptile, shell, insects, corals, and ethnological objects from the Philippine Islands; 84 plants from
WINGED als eile

<<<Page: 91>>>

Mearns, Dr. KE. A.—Continued. the Philippine Islands (46074). (See under Dr. Raymond F. Metcalfe, U.S. Army, and Maj. G. W. Newgarden, U.S. Army.
Meek, S. E. Commerce Fishes. )
Metyiuig, A. G., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen of walking-stick, Diapheromera Semorata (44884).
Mene.ixk, King, Adis Abbaba, Abyssinia: 2 elephant tusks (received through Hon. Theodore Roosevelt) (45215).
Merriam, C. Hart. Lord Smith.)
Merrinew, Mrs. E. L., Long Beach, Cal.: 250 land and marine mollusks from California (44684).
Merrity, G. P., U. S. National Museum: Photographs of J. H. Alexander, Jules Ducatel, Philip Tyson, and H. H. Hayden (44683); shrew and a fish from the Isle of Springs, Sheepscot Bay, Maine (46040).
Merritt, Miss C. A., Medina, N. Y.: 2 polished stones (45682).
(See
(See under Department of and Labor, Bureau of
(See under Wm.
MercammE, ©: = 8B: under KE. L. Greene. )
MercatFre, Dr. Raymonp F., U.S. Army, Manila, Philippine Islands: Reptiles from Samar, Philippine Islands (received through Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army (45790).
Merraver, H. A., Macon, Ga.: 2 plants from Georgia (45131).
Mexico, Crry or Mexico, Insriruto Mepico Nacronat: 2 living plants from Mexico (received through F. Altamirano, director) (45602: exchange).
Mryrr, J., Brooklyn, N. . Y.:* Photographic color prints, unfinished prints, and paper sensitized for printing, illustrating new process of making photographic color prints (45704).
Mickwirz, Auacust von, Reval, Estland,
Russia: 2,063 specimens of Russian Ordovician bryozoans (45521).
Micue., JEAN, Barroubio, par AiguesVives, Hérault, France: Prehistoric objects (44831); prehistoric objects (46030: exchange).
MILLER, Lieut. Epwarp Y., U. S. Army, governor of the Province of Palawan, Puerta Princesa, Philippine Islands: Copies of a letter in Tagbanua characters, and 2 photographs of the alphabet and of a bamboo tube which were formerly used in correspondence by the natives (45937).
Miuuer, Gerrit S., Jr., U. S. National Museum: 72 plants principally from the vicinity of Washington (44858: collected for the Museum); specimen of Toma from Mexico (45929).
Mitier, Mrs. Gerrit S., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 14 specimens of mollusks, Laciniaria from Virginia (45386).
Mitier, Gerrit §., Sr., Peterboro, N. Y.: 2 specimens of Sambucus from Peterboro (44670); 8 photographs of a common finback whale, Balxnoptera physdlus taken at Provincetown, Mass. (45589).
Miuus, THeo., Methow, Wash.; Cecropia moth, Samia gloveri (46131).
MitwavkeeE Pusiic Museum, Milwaukee, Wis.: 12 specimens of Hymenoptera (received through H. L. Ward, custodian) (44626).
Mineus, Everitt, Marshfield, Wood coated bronze (46051).
Missourr BoranicaAL GARDEN, St. Louis, Mo.: 2 plants (45013); 6 living plants from Mexico (45183); specimen of stone-crop, cheveria lucida (45225); living specimen of stone-crop, Sedastrum hemsleyanum from Mexico (45268) ; 2 living plants (45504). Exchange.
MircHELL, Miss E. G., U. S. National Museum: Crustaceans from Piney Branch, District of Columbia. (45170).
Oreg.:
| Mircueti, E. 8., Havre de Grace, Md.:
Oriskany fossils (45330). MircHEeLt, H. W. (See under J. M. Corey. )
| MircHett, J. D., Victoria, Tex.: Type of
creer
mollusk, Scala mitchelli (45577). (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Monreomery, Henry, curator of Museum, Toronto University, Toronto, Canada: Mound relics from Dakota (45749).
Mooney, JAMeEs. (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. )

<<<Page: 92>>>

Morwart, Curt, PFARRER vON STAADORF, |
Bayern, Germany: Clay tablet with figure of Columbus (received through | Department of State ) (44779).
Morri.t, A. W. of Agriculture. )
Morse, A. P., Wellesley, Mass.: 13 Orthop| tera (45666: exchange).
Mossy, Joun S&., Jr., Mosby, Va.: Black horse-fly, Tabanus atratus, and asphinxmoth, Callosamia angulifera (46129).
(See under Department
Morraz, CHARLES, Geneva, Switzerland: 11 bats and a shrew from Switzerland (45663: exchange).
Murray, J. D., Washington, D. C.: Skull of a negro (46044) ; negro fetus (46115).
Muske CaNTONAL. (See under Fribourg, Switzerland. )
Mus&e ZooLoGiquE DE L’ ACADEMIE IMPERIALE DES Sciences. (See under St. Petersburg, Russia. )
Museo Civico pi Sroria NATURALE. under Genoa, Italy.)
(See
Museo Nacronat. (See under San José,
Costa Rica. )
Mustum D’Hisrorre NatuRE.LLe. under Paris, France. )
(See
Museum OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY, Cam| bridge, Mass: Reptiles and batrachi| ans from the Bahama Islands (45925).
Museum or Naturat History, Valpariso, | Chile, South America: 17 specimens | of Arachnids (45265).
Nasu, G. V. (See under New York Bo| tanical Garden. )
NaTIONAL Society OF THE DAMEs oF 1846: | Flag of the Baltimore, Md., and Wash| ington Battalion, volunteers in the | Mexican war, 1846-1848 (10664) , badge, with inscription, of the reunion of the | National Association of Veterans of the | Mexican War, at Dallas, Tex., 1905 | (10786); sword carried by Sergeant | Michael McEnnis in the march through Mexico under Col. A. W. Doniphan, and a gold-plated medal made from | cannon captured in Mexico (10787); 5 badges of Mexican War Veterans _ (10813); Mexican flag (10841); letter and 3 military documents of Richard C. | Daly (1847-1860) (11158); photograph, | newspapers, badge, and circular letter
NaTIONAL SocrETry OF THE DAMES OF 1846—Continued.
to the Fifty-ninth Congress relating to
the National Association of Mexican
War Veterans (11315). Loan.
NATIONAL Society OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN ReEvyouvution, Mrs. Donald McLean, President-General:
‘‘A masque made in the matrix which was moulded at Mount Vernon on the living features of George Washington by that eminent sculptor, Jean Antoine Houdon, who in 1785 was brought from Paris for that purpuse by the State of Virginia’’ (10641); framed letter of Abigail Adams; framed photographs, with pieces of wood attached, of Washington elm, Cambridge, Mass. ; Clark House, Lexington. Mass.; Faneuil Hall, Boston, Mass., and Old North Church, Boston, Mass. (11347); Revolutionary relics (11370); porcelain clock, 3 miniatures on ivory, and a chemisette, the property of Mrs. Sophie L. Walker (11371); letter written in 1777 by Samuel Chase to Governor Johnson, of Maryland, and a bronze medal awarded to the society by the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (11479). Loan.
Navas, R. P. Loneinos, Zaragoza, Spain: Hymenoptera from Spain (45956: exchange).
NrEpHAM, JAMESG., Lake Forest, Ill. 50 Diptera (received through D. W. Coquillett) (45289).
Netson, AveEN, Laramie, Wyo.: 746 plants from Wyoming and Colorado (45065: purchase).
Netson, E. W., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Ancient pottery and stone objects from Mexico (45923: purchase). (See under Department of Agriculture. )
NEWGARDEN, Maj. GeEorGE W., U. S. Army, Manila, Philippine Islands: Horned beetle, Chalcosoma atlas (received through Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army) (45913).
New Jersey Historica Sociery, Newark, N. J.: Copy (bronze) of the Centennial Memorial medal issued by the Society (received through Nathaniel Niles) (45773).

<<<Page: 93>>>

New JERSEY STATE COMMISSION AT THE LourstAna PurcHaAse Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from New Jersey (44666).
Newton, W. S., Oswego, Kans.: Vertebra of a fossil or extinct bison (44963); skull of a bison, and Indian relics (45181).
New Mexico Srare CoMMISsSION AT THE LouIstANA PURCHASE Exposition: Ores and non metallic minerals from New Mexico (44667).
New York Aquarium, Battery Park, |
New York City: Specimen of Axolotl (45529).
New York BoranicaAL GARDEN, Bronx Park, New York City: Living plant collected by G. V. Nash in Hayti | (45066); living plant from Mexico | (45083); large collection of Pteridophyta (45263); 2 living plants (45299); living
specimens of marine alge and 252 | specimens of Characeze (45580); 597 | plants from the West Indies (45623); plants principally from (45628); living specimens of principally from Mexico (46050). change.
cacti, Ex-
New York Zoo.ocicaLt Park, New York City: 2 specimens of rattlesnakes from
Arizona (45421); iguana, Cyclura car-
nata from Turks Island, West Indies (45728).
NicHoits, Mrs. Ann, Laredo, specimens of cactus (45011).
Tex.: 2
Nicnoxs, GeorGe E., New Haven, Conn.: | Mollusk, Schizxa pusilla, from Cape Breton, Nova Scotia (45271).
Nicke.s, JoHN, U. 8. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: About 60 freshwater shells from Riverside on the Ohio River (45889).
Nites, NATHANIEL. (See under New Jersey Historical Society. )
Norman, Rev. Canon A. M., The Red | House, Berkhamsted, Herts, England: | Parasitic copepods (received through | Charles B. Wilson) (45398: exchange). |
Norse Porrery Company, Rockford, IIL:
| OBERLANDER, plant from Costa Rica (45344); 296 |
Jamaica |
3 pieces of pottery (45701).
Norra CaroLina AGRICULTURAL STATION, Raleigh, N. C.:4 Hymenoptera (45739).
Norra CAroLInA DEPARTMENT OF AGRIcuLTURE, Raleigh, N. C.: Adult and larva of a salamander, Stereochilus marginatus (received through H. H. Brimley) (45298).
NortH CAROLINA GRANITE CORPORATION, | Mount Airy, N. C.: Cube of Mount Airy granite (44850).
Norru, Joun T., New York City: Projectile found on Flat Creek Swamp, Fayette County, Ga. (45590).
NuMISMATIC AND ANTIQUARIAN SOCIETY OF Monrreat, Montreal, Canada: Medal issued in connection with the bicentennial of the erection of the building of the museum of the society (received through R. W. McLachlan, honorary curator) (45681).
Ph., Hronov, Bohemia: Hemiptera and Coleoptera from New suinea (45906); insects from India, Ceylon, Australia, and Chile (44938). Exchange.
O’Brien, F. W. X., Woodstock, Md.: 2 mud nests with bees (45137).
| Onr, Grorce E., Biloxi, Miss.: Small
handled vase (45687).
Oxproyp, Mrs. T. S., Long Beach, Cal.: Marine shells and marine mollusks from California and other localities (45138, 45778).
Orcutt, C. R., San Diego, Cal.: 7 species of fungi from Lower California (45719).
Orp, estate of the late Capt. Jamss T., U. S. Army: Badge of the Seventyfifth Army Corps, presented to Captain Ord by Major-General Shafter after the war with Spain (received through Mrs. Lucy Ord Donaldson) (11343: loan).
OREGON CoMMISSION AT THE LEWIS AND CuarK Exposition, Portland, Oreg.: Cobalt ore from Quartzburg, and gypsum from Huntington, Oreg, (45469).
OrroLE Museum, Knowlesville, N. Y.: 6 birds’ skins from China (45613).
Oscoop, W. H. (See under J. B. Tyrrell. )
OstAr, ErnestJ., Denver, Colo.: 14 moths (45708: purchase).

<<<Page: 94>>>

OrrawA, CANADA, GEOLOGICAL SURVEY of: (received through J. M. Macoun) 150 plants from Canada (45555); 108 plants from Canada (45735). Exchange.
Owen, Virait W., Los Angeles, Cal.: Rattlesnake from Arizona (45796).
Patz, Josk A., Sailors’ Snug Harbor, Staten Island, N. Y.: Collection of personal relics of the late Gen. José Antonio Paéz (10689: loan).
Paine, P. R., Jr., Charleston, 8. C.: Treefrogs from South Carolina (45069).
Patmer, Epwarp, Department of Agriculture: 303 plants from Mexico (44844: purchase); 232 plants from Mexico (44927: purchase); collection of eth-
nological objects from Mexico (45308); |
plants from Mexico (465511; 45721: purchase).
PauMEr, WivuraMm, U. S. National Museum: 5 ferns from the Bright Angel trail, Grand Canyon, Arizona (45337); dried specimen of crayfish from Mount Tamalpais, California (45220); lizard anda frog from California (45551); skins and skeletons of 2 squirrels, Sciurus griseus, from Allspaugh, Oreg. (45573); 15 plants from Oregon and other localities(45918). Collected forthe Museum.
PammMe., L. H. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Paris, FRANCE. TURELLE: 3 fresh water crabs (44644: exchange); 2 bats, Euripterus, from South America (44945: exchange); isopods obtained by the Charcot expedition to the Antarctic regions (45625).
ParisH, S. B., San Bernardino, Cal.: 5 specimens of Sedum (44708); about 10 cacti from California (44730); specimen of fern, Cheilanthes Cooper (44929); plant from California (44964: exchange): specimen of fern (45071).
Parker, A. C., Bridgeton, N. J.: Saddleback caterpillar, Sabine stimulea (45046).
Parks, H. L., Lake Valley, N. Mex.: Beetle, Hippodamia convergens (44933).
Parritt, H. W., London, England: Speci|
men of crab, Lithodes kamschatica, and 2 specimens of crab, Grapsus varius (45593: exchange).
Museum D’ Hisrorre Na|
PAUMGARTTEN, Baron. (See under Seitenstetten, Lower Austria, Geographisches-Schul Museum ).
Payne, Exias J., Olympia, Wash.: Ores from the Washington State Exhibit at the Lewisand Clark Exposition (45468).
Peasopy, Mrs. Harrier, Washington, D.C.: 2 pottery bowls of Navaho Indian workmanship (45210).
PEeaBopy Musrtum or ARCHEOLOGY AND Erxno.ioey, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. An old Micmac box madein AnnapolisCounty, Nova Scotia, about the year 1800 (received through G. C. Willoughby) (45861: exchange).
Prasopy Museum, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.: 4 isopod crustaceans, Janira spinosa and Dynamene perforata (received through Miss K. J. Bush) (45886).
Peck, Braprorp, Jr., Searles, Cal., 2 plants from the Mojave Desert, Pholisma arenarium (44769) ; fragments of a solopugid, Hremobates formicaria (44854).
PENNELL, Francis W., Wawa, Pa.: 2 plants from Pennsylvania (44899).
PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE, State College, Pa.: Fishes from various localities in Pennsylvania (received through W. R. McConnell, president) (46019).
Perers, Dr. R. H., Livingston, Guatemala: Moth (44794); 22 mollusks, Veronicella stoli (received through H. Pittier) (44923).
PETERSON, JoHN, Delamar, Nev.: Gold ore from Delamar (45384).
Prorpte, O. F., Rutherford, N. J.: Minerals and graphite (44878; 45989).
PraLen, W. C. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
PHILIPPINE COMMISSION AT THE LOUISIANA PurcHase Exposition: Ethnographic and mineralogical collections from the Philippine Islands (45257).
PHILuirs AND BoswortnH, Fishinghawk, W. Va.: Fossil plants (45227).
Puiuuies, J. W., Hailey, Mo.: 20 plants ~ from Missouri (44761; 44888; 45460).
PrepMont MininG Company, Lincolnton, N.C.: Tin ore (received through Frank L. Hess) (46032).

<<<Page: 95>>>

Pierre, Appt (Alliers), Moulin, France: | Prrrrer, H.—Continued. Specimens of mymarid, Anagrus atomos
(45738). Piuspry, H. A., Academy of Natural Sci-
ences, Philadelphia, Pa.: Specimens of |
mollusk, Subulinastriatella, from Liberia (45053).
Princnor, Mrs. J. W., Washington, D. C.:
Early colonial pewter pipe (46008). Preer, C. V., Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.: 32 specimens of
Pteridophyta from Alaska (44631); 300
shells from Mecca, Cal. (45014); 49 | plants, principally from Washington, © most of which are types (45360); 11 | | Porgr, Mr. and Mrs. Cuarues A., Valpa-
plants from Oregon, collected by M. W.
Gorman (45429); 25 specimens of algee |
from Alaska and 6 from other localities in the United States (45505); 2 specimens of beard-tongue, Pentstemon, from Oregon (45596). partment of Agriculture. )
Prrrier, H., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: 3 carved and painted bowls made by the Kekci Indians (44678); 3 dians from a between
Sakalkunté, Akteld, Alta
cave of
Senahtt and
skulls of Kekeci In|
Pliocene and Pleistocene fossils from Port Limon, Costa Rica (45953); 120 lichens from Costa Rica (45959); 78 land and freshwater shells from Colombia, South America (46003); 133 land shells from Costa Rica and the Cocos Islands (46004); 33 plants collected by Carlos Renson in El Salvador (46013). (See also under Department of Agricul. ture and Dr. R. H. Peters. )
Prwonka, THomas, Cleveland, Ohio: About 200 Onondaga fossils (45383). Poor, B. G., Washington, D. C.: White
fetus (44635).
raiso, Chile: 18 archeological specimens from Bogota and 23 stone implements from New Jersey (44982).
| Pope GosseR CrHina Company, Coshoc-
(See also under De|
Verapaz, Guatemala (44747); 14 liv|
ing plants from Mexico (44848); 80
plants collected in El Salvador, by | Carlos Renson (44852); 10 shells from |
Sakalkunté (44905); 35 specimens of land and freshwater mollusks, from
Mexico and Gautemala (44924); mol|
lusks, insects, crustacean, and a tooth (45048) specimen of plant, Pereskia, from Panama (45294); 162 plants from Costa Rica, consisting principally of Piperaceze determined by de Candolle (45449); fish-hook and spider of gold, found near Cali, southern Cauca, Colombia, and ethnological objects made by the (45831); 3
from Las Cruces de Lopez, Colombia, Sonth America (46862); 134 plants from il Salvador, Central America,
collected by Carlos Renson (45909); 3 |
Popayan Indians of Cauca |
= _ | mosses from Costa Rica | (45837); 3 batrachians and a spider |
spindle-whorls found in graves in the |
Cauca Valley, Colombia, and 2 photo|
graphs (45947);
about 500 species of *
ton, Ohio: 2 vases (45694).
PorrerR, CHARLES A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Specimen of quartz (received through H. C. Demming) (45068).
Post, E.J., Tampa, Fla.: Rock containing fossil mollusks (45566).
PREBLE, EH. A., -Washington, D. C.: Skull of Dogrib woman from Fort Rae, Mackenzie, skull of an Eskimo child, and skull of a Tula Lake (Oregon) woman (45387); Eskimo fureoat and moccasins, net of willow bark, and sled line from the Mackenzie River district and western Hudson Bay shore (45922: purchase).
Prentiss, D. W., Washington, D. C.: Mole, Scalops, from Chevy Chase, Md. (45182).
PRINGLE, C. G., City of Mexico, Mexico: Plant from Mexico, of the crassulaceous class (45012); 2 living plants from Coahuila (45212); type specimen of plant, Hoffmanseggia fruticosa (45442); 645 plants from Mexico (45723: purchase).
Purpus, C. A., Amecameca, Mexico: 3 livingspecimens of Crassulaceze (45378) ; 2 living specimens of Cereus (45720: purchase); 15 living plants (44973). (See under T. 8. Brandegee. )
Pyie, J. B., superintendent House of
Reformation, Cheltenham, Md.: Beetle,
Dynastes tityus (45869)

<<<Page: 96>>>

Raper, F. E., Rampart, Alaska: 75 plants | Raymonp, Percy E., Carnegie Museum,
from Alaska (45235).
Raupu, W. L., U. S. National Museum: 8 deer and 17 rabbits (45097); 2 deer
(45114); a rat (45122);¢ batrachians from Hamilton County, N. Y. (45156); | 2 specimens of deer (45221); 2 speci| musk-rats | (45277); muskrat (45282); specimen | of rice-field mouse, Oryzomys, from |
mens of deer (45231); 2
Virginia (45313); flying-squirrel and 3 mice (45333); 4 musk-rats and 3 specimens of fleld mouse, Peromyscus (45336); specimen of rice-field mouse, Oryzomys, from Virginia (45345); bluecrowned kinglet, Regulus calendula (45396); specimen of rice-field mouse, Oryzomys, from Virginia (45433); nest, 3 eggs, and skin of female Alaskan jay, Perisoreus canadensis fumifrons (45465) ; muskrat from Nansemond River, Suffolk, Va. (45503); turtle (45561); gray squirrel (45850); 25 birds’ eggs from Newfoundland and Utah (45954); gray squirrel (46119); 2 squirrels (46136). Rames, James L., Florence, Ariz.: Kan-
garoo-rat, Dipodomys deserti, from Casa |
Grande, Ariz. (46124). RanbDotpH, Miss Cornewia .P., Washington, D. C., and Mrs. Evizapera G. R.
eral Lingan; miniature on ivory of Gen. J. C. Lingan; wedding vest of General Lingan, and his parole from the prison-ship Jersey, dated February 25, 1776; teaspoon found near General Lingan’s home,
buckskin hunting-shirt belonging to John Randolph of Roanoke; pair of doeskin garters worn by him, and a small gold shoe-buckle (46098).
Ransome, F. L. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
Ratusun, Miss M. J., U. S. National Museum: Invertebrates from Woods Hole, Mass. (45141: collected for the Museum).
Rawtines, E. A., Forest, Ontario, Can| ada: Rainbow-darter, Etheostoma ceru|
leum (45950).
‘“Middlebrook | Mills,’? in Montgomery County, Md.; |
Pittsburg, Pa.: Fossil (45326).
REDMOND, WILLIAM Preston, New York City: 5 pieces of plate voted in 1813 by the Common Councils of New York and Philadelphia to Capt. James Lawrence, U. 8S. Navy, to commemorate the victory of the Hornet over the English sloop-of-war Peacock (11351: loan).
bryozoans
Reep, J. C., Wickenburg, Ariz.: Ore (45574).
Reese, A. M., Syracuse, N. Y.: Toads. fishes, insects, mollusks, crustaceans and leeches from Lake Kissimmee, Florida (45168).
ReEIcHARD, C. Apour, Frankfurt am Main, Germany: Photographs representing pieces of pottery found in caves along the coast of Jamaica (45331).
REINECKE, JUAN, Guanajuato, Mexico: 3 plants from Mexico (45826).
ReEINHOLT, O. H., Los Angeles, Cal.: 38 recent shells from the Philippine Islands (45486).
Renson, Cartos. (See under H. Pittier. )
ReEynotps, E. V., Sacred Heart, Okla.: Imperial Roman coin (44764).
p . Z : | RicHarps, T. W., U. S. Navy, WashingCatvertT: Family relics, including a |
French clock which belonged to Gen|
ton, D. C.: 31 birds’ skins from Cuba (45089).
RicHarpson, G. B. (See under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey.)
| RICKENBAKER, G. W., North, 8. C.: Cab-
bage-worm, Gordius varius (46105).
Ricker, P. L., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: 59 specimens of fungi from New England (45127: exchange); fossil leaf from the bog ore at Katahdin Iron Works, Piscataquis County, Me. (45792: transferred from the Department of Agriculture).
Rippie, O. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Ripeway, Rospert, U. §. National Museum: 1,305 birds’ nests and eggs, a mammal, and 2 lizards from Costa Rica (44659: collected for the Museum); 22 skins of humming birds from Costa Rica
a Collected.

<<<Page: 97>>>

Rineway, Roprert—Continued.
(44786: purchased for the Museum); skin of screech-owl, Megascops asio, from Illinois (45148).
Ritey, J. H., U. 8. National Museum: 3 landeshells from Falls Church, Va. (44932); 10 birds’ skins from Maryland and Virginia (45488: collected for the Museum); 3 squirrels and 2 bats from Virginia (45533); skin and skull of a squirrel (45932); egg of whip-poor-will, Antrostomus vociferus (45955).
Riptey, Epwin, Seattle, Wash.: Wolffish, Anarrichthys ocellatus (received through Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries) (46067).
Rircuis£, Joun, Jr., Boston, Mass. : 2 specimens of land-snail, Helix maynardi (cotypes) from Andras Island, Bahamas (45270); 5specimens of land-snail, Cepolis maynardi, and 2 of Cepolis xanthophxa (cotypes) (45443); cotype of Cepolis xanthophxus, and 3 cotypes of Cepolis caymanensis (45487).
Rosperts, E. W., House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.: Set of coins recently issued by the United States for use in the Philippine Islands (45926: exchange). (See also under Forbes Lithograph Manufacturing Company. )
Ropertson, Auice, University of California, Berkeley, Cal.: 23 species of bryozoans from the Pacific coast (45552).
Ropertson, A. W., San Francisco, Cal.: 3 pieces of pottery (45699).
Ropinson, J. D. (See under Libbey Union Glass Company. )
Ropinson, Mrs. Martua, Mason, U.S. National Museum: Shuttle of a hand-loom (46036).
Rosrnson, Capt. Wirt, U. 8. Army, Fort Totten, N. Y.: 60 Lepidoptera and 15 Coleoptera (44961); pupa of moth, Phiprosopus callitrichoides (44986) ; 3 mammals from the West Indies (45042) .
RosorHam, R., Marysville, Ohio: Glow|
worm, Photinus sp. (44699). Rosy, Witiiam C., City of Mexico, Mexico: 7 plants from Mexico (45009). Rocxry, W., Haskell, Ind. T.: Stagbeetle, Lucanus elaphus (44713).
Gare m.@s lk
Rogan, H. G., Norfolk, Va.: 2 lobes of a human brain (45783).
Roger WiuuiamMs Park Museum, Providence, R. I.: Fossil, Sphenopteris elegans, from Rhode Island (received through C. Abbott Davis, curator) (45616).
Roaers, Miss A. M., Hyattsville, Md.: Photograph of the ‘‘ Bonhomme Richard’”’ flag, and one of Mrs. Stafford (11324: loan).
RocrErs, Watrer, Farmington, Iowa: Sword captured from a Confederate officer at Fort Sumter, 8. C. (44857).
Rou.e, HERMANN, Berlin, Germany: 1,500 land and fresh-water shells (types from the collections of the late Herr M6llendorff from the Philippine Islands (44623: purchase).
Roman, A., Upsala, Sweden: Swedish Hymenoptera (45683; 46023). Exchange.
Roon, G. Van, Rotterdam, Holland: Indo-Malayan beetles, Cetoniidz and Lucanidee (45222: exchange).
RoosEvELt, Hon. THEODORE, President of the United States: Piece of a log said to have formed part of the cabin built by General Grant on his farm near St. Louis in 1854 (45518). (See also under American Philosophical Society; Hadji Abdullah Ali Sudik and King Menelik. )
Ross, J. N., U. 8. National Museum: 14 plants, principally cacti, from Mexico (44679) ; 27 plants from Mexico (44729) ; 89 living plants from Mexico (44802; 44817); 113 specimens of Cactacez, Crassulaceze, etc., from Mexico (44853). Collected for the Museum.
Ross, J. N., and J: H. Painter, U2 8: National Museum: 4,347 dried plants, 60 jars of alcoholic plants, 106 dried cactus, 70 shells, and a reptile (45406; collected for the Museum, in Mexico).
RosenBerG, W. F. H., London, England: 1,544 Hymenoptera and Hemiptera from various localities in Central and South America (45109); mammals (46126). Purchase.
Rosenstock, E., Gotha, Germany: 88 Brazilian ferns (45461: purchase).
RosEyILLE Potrery Company, Zanesville, Ohio: Vase (Sang de boeuf) (45689).

<<<Page: 98>>>

Ross, F. H., Rutland, Vt.: Young mourning dove, Zenaidura macroura (44849).
Rostret, C. B., Central Point, Oreg.: Water-strider, Gerris sp. (45456).
Rounps, L. C., Westwater, Utah: Specimen of praying-mantis, Stagmomantis carolina (45007).
Rousseau, TatmMaAGceE, Clear Water (Belleair), Fla.: Fungus from Florida (45312).
Royat Boranic GARDEN. (See under Sibpur, near Calcutta, India. )
Roya BoranicaLt GARDENS. (See under Kew, London, England. )
Royster, ALpHoNsO, Suffolk, Va.: Carolina wren, Thryothorus ludovicianus (45381).
Ruspy, H. H., New York Botanic Garden, New York City: Fragments of a plant from Bolivia (44930).
(See under ComDepartment of,
Rurrer, CLOUDESLEY. merce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Rysor, L. W., McCabe, Ariz.: Moth (46041).
Ryper, Eminy B., Chicago, Il.: Hindu Pujah set (45934: purchase); Parsi school girl’s suit and skull cap (11094: loan).
St. PrrerspurG, Russta, Muste ZoOLOGIQUE DE L’ACADEMIE IMPERIALE DES Sciences: Fishes (45879: exchange).
Sampson, F. A., Columbus, Mo.: About 150 Mississippian fossils from Fern Glen, Missouri (45750: exchange).
Sanps, W. A., Auburndale, Fla.: Dragon fly (44804).
San José, Costa Rica, Iystiruro FistcoGEOGRAFICO NAcIoNAL: 939 plants from
Costa Rica (45288: exchange); plants |
(45427: exchange); plants from Costa Rica (45622: exchange); 233 plantsfrom Costa Rica (45662: exchange); plants
from Costa Rica (45952: exchange); |
6 lizards, Cnemidophorus deppii, from Costa Rica (46033).
San José, Costa Rico, Musro NAcIoNnat: 502 birds’ skins from Costa Rica (44653); 3 species of crustaceans (45731) ; amphipods (45882).
Santraco DE Las VreGcas, Estacion CENTRAL AGRoNOMIcA: Large collections of plants from Cuba (received through ©. F. Baker) (45286; 45673; 45705; 45718; 46099). Exchange.
Sapp, W. J., Lordsburg, N. Mex.: Pseudomorphous mineral from near Gage, Luna County (45534).
Sarawak, Borneo, SaARAWAK Museum. John Hewitt, curator: 38 Hymenoptera (46076: exchange).
; Savaee, H. B., Belton, Tex.: Luna moth, Actias luna (45804).
ScHakFFer, C., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2 specimens of Decticinz (45390).
Scuaus, Witu1amM, Twickenham, Eng-
land: Collection of American moths, including several thousand specimens (44719; 44805; 44876; 45389); large collection of Lepidoptera and Coleoptera (46082).
Scumip, E. S., Washington, D. C.: ‘‘Homay”’ or ‘‘Chinese nightingale,”’ Trochalepteron canorum (45488); Japanese titmouse, Parus varius (45572).
ScHNEIDER, Wittt1AmM E., Washington, D. C.: Genie magazine camera, and a model of the same (45041).
ScHock, P. J. (See under Seitenstetten, Lower Austria). |
Scurorrry, C., Paraguay, South America: Hymenoptera from South America (45782: exchange).
Scuowarz, E. A., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.: Nestof oriole, Icterus hypomelas, from Cayamas, Cuba (45117). (See also under Department of Agriculture).
Scowarz, E. A., and H. S. Barser, U. S. National Museum: Land shells and land mollusks from Guatemala (46002; 46084).
Scowarz, E. A.,and D. Ciemons, U. 8. National Museum: 2,000 insects collected on Plummers Island, Maryland, in 1905 (45668).
Scuwarz, E. A., and H. G. Hupsarp: Salamander from Retreat, N. C. (45176).
ScHweyer and Lress, King of Prussia, Pa.: 2 samples of American green marble from Pennsylvania (45367).

<<<Page: 99>>>

Science Coturecer, Imperial UNIVERsITY, Toxyo, JAPAN: Japanese reptiles and batrachians (received through I. [jima) (46093).
Scorienp, C. §8., Washington, D. C.: Living specimen of cactus from Dickinson, N. Dak. (received through Department of Agriculture) (44814).
SEABROOK, PHOEBE H., Washington, D.C.: African gray parrot (45104).
Seaman, W. H., Washington, D. C.: Marine shells and crustaceans from Frenchmans Bay, Massachusetts (45186).
Sepawick, W. H., Christiana, Tenn.: 16 unios from Tennessee (45904).
SEEGEAR, G. A., U.S. National Museum: 2 turtle eggs from Branchville, Md. (44984).
SEITENSTETTEN, Lower Austria, GEOGRAPHISCHES-ScHUL Musrum: Collection of ethnological and industrial objects illustrating the primitive arts, chiefly of Austro-Hungary, obtained through the assistance of Baron P. Paumgartten, of the Austro-Hungarian Embassy, Washington, D. C. (45209; exchange).
SERJEANTSON, C. R., Miami, Fla.: 2 scorpions, Centrurus gracilis (44847).
Sevres Cuina Company, East Liverpool, O.: Bird-jug or vase (45684).
Suaw, C. H., Collegeville, Pa.: 556 plants
from the Selkirk Mountains, British |
Columbia (45836; exchange).
Srppur, Inpia, Royau Boranic GARDEN:
57 plants from Asia (45484; exchange).
Sinvestri, Fiuippi, Portici, Italy: Parasitic Hymenoptera (44820; 45081; 45260; 45329).
Simmons, J.8., Taybelaran Bohol, Philippine Islands: Case-worm (45957).
Simons, P. O. (See under Leland Stanford Junior University ).
Simpson, H. A., Wheeling, W. Va.: Luna moth, Trophxa luna (46130).
Stoan, Harte. (See under South Carolina Geological Survey ).
Stocum, JosHua, Menemsha Creek, Mass. : Coral (45152).
Stosson, Mrs. A. T., New York City: 31 parasitic Hymenoptera (45424).
Smiturs, T. W., U. S. National Museum: Nose-ring for a bull, from Maryland (45244).
Samira, F. W., Washington, D. C.: Model of the Parthenon, and model of lotuspillar of ancient Egypt (11185; loan).
Smita, G. O. (See under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey. )
SmitH, Henry Hupson, Philadelphia, Pa.: Fossil plant from near Gilbertson, Schuylkill County, Pa. (45275).
Smirn, H. M., U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C.: Bone needlecase, horn spoon, and a bone spoon from the Lapps of Finmarken, Norway (44780; exchange); flag fan from Khartum (44800; exchange); skull froma mound in Miami, Fla. (45124); satchel of native hemp, made by a Maori, near Wellington, New Zealand (45594); valve of shell, Pteria macroptera lotorium from Japan (45755); mollusks from Japan (45775); certification of a visit to the shrine of Ise, Japan, in May of 1903 (45860). (See also under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Smirn, JArep §., Honolulu, Sandwich Islands: Plants from the Hawaiian Islands (44822; 44686).
Surin, Joun B., Rutger’s College, New Brunswick, N. J.: Parasitic Hymenoptera (44782); 4 cotypes of mosquitoes (Culex pallidohirta; C. siphonalis; C. saxatilis, and C. sylvicola) (46045); parasitic Hymenoptera (45082).
Smith, JoHN DoNNELL, Baltimore, Md.: Plants from Central America (45428; 45532); 3 sheets of foreign plants (45813).
Smita, Miss Neturr H., U. S. National Museum: Lefaucheux revolver (44641).
Smita, Wivti1AM Lorp, Boston, Mass.: Natural history specimens from Korea (received through C. Hart Merriam) (45944).
Smiru, W.S., Dalhousie, New Brunswick: Devonian fossils and a stone implement (45093).

<<<Page: 100>>>

SMITHSONIAN InstiTUTION: Bronze figure
representing Buddha, presented by Mr. |
August Wall, of Benicia Barracks, Cal. (44642). Medal commemorating the laying of the corner stone of the new building for the National Library of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (45213). Colleetion of plants from China, presented by Mr. Stephen P. Barchet, Shanghai, China (45512).
Plants, chiefly from Sal—
vador, presented by Capt. John Don|
nell Smith, Baltimore, Md. (45646). 14 |
bronze commemorative medals, award-
ed to the Smithsonian Institution by |
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition in recognition of the various special ex-
hibits of the Institution and its bureaus | Unique Tibetan manuscript, |
(45678). obtained by Lieutenant-Colonel Waddell at the instance of the government of India, and presented by Colonel Waddell (45806).
Silver medal commemo|
rating the two hundred and fiftieth an|
niversary of the settlement of the Jews in the United States, received through
Mr. Max J. Kohler, honorary secretary
of the executive committee of the celebration (45886).
Bronze commemora|
tive medal, awarded to the Institution | and National Museum by the Lewis and |
Clark Centennial Exposition at Portland, Oreg. (45940). Copy of the Argonaut (45969).
Copy of a medal struck |
by order of Congress to commemorate | the two hundredth anniversary of the |
birth of Benjamin Franklin, received |
from the American Philosophical Society (46095).
Transferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology: Stone axe from Gasco-
nade County, Mo., obtained by J. M. | Wulfing, of St. Louis, Mo. (44789); |
stone implements from Frederick
County, Md., and Lehigh Hills, Penn| sylvania, collected by Ralston Golds|
borough (44948); specimens of earthen-
ware, stone implements, and shell ob|
jects collected in Mexico in 1895-1896
by W J McGee (44992); bone dice used |
in dice game in the ghost dance by the Arapaho Indians, obtained by James Mooney (44993); fragments of pottery from the Mandan country, obtained by EK. R. Steinbrueck, Mandan, N. Dak.
Continued. (45077); crania from a cave in Tarahumare, State of Chihuahua, Mexico, collected by James Mooney (45316); colleetion of skeletal remains, pottery vessels and fragments, implements of stone, bone, shell, ete., obtained during the season of 1905 by the excavation of burial places on the Pajarito plateau, New Mexico, by Edgar L. Hewett (45665); Indian skulls, fragmentary skull, and other bones, shell implements and objects, broken pottery and fossils collected in Florida by A. Hrdli¢ka, of the National Museum (45819); medal issued by the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Montreal (45852); 2 ancient pueblo crania received from Edgar L. Hewett (45872); human skeleton obtained by Mr. Hewett from an ancient graye at Rito de los Frijoles, New Mexico (45936). Transferred from the National Zoological Park: Black-tailed deer, Odocoileus columbianus (44624); Java sparrow, Munia oryzivora, wedge-tailed e gle, Aquila audax (44625); 3 blue foxes, Vulpes lagopus (44627); yellow baboon, Papio babuin; opossum, Didelphys virginiana (44628); 2 specimens of Plegadis guarauna (44749); Tovi parrakeet, Brotogerys jugularis, yellow-naped amazon, Amazona auropalliata and specimen of ibis, Plegadis guarauna (44750); cassowary, Casuarius australis, and 3 specimens of roseate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja (44751); blue fox, Vulpes lagopus, white stork, Ciconia alba and specimen of roseate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja (44752); blue quail, Callipepla squamata, green monkey, Cercopithecus, rock kangaroo, Petrogale penicillata (44753); rock hangaroo, Petrogale penicillata, golden eagle, Aquila chrysxtos (44754); hedgehog, Erinaceus europxus, badger, Taxidea americana (44755); jaguar, Felis onca, rufous rat kangaroo, Eprymnus rufescens (44756); lynx, Lynx rufus maculatus, ocelot, Helis pardalis, and a cacomitli cat, Felis cacomitli (44757); black ape, Cynopithecus niger (44758); olive agouti, Dasyprocta acouchy (44759); coypu, Myocastor coypus (44760); coypu, Myocaster coypus, and blue fox, Vulpes

<<<Page: 101>>>

SmriTHsoNIAN Instrrurion—Continued.
lagopus (44866); snowy owl, Nyctea nyctea (44867); 3 specimens of roseate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja (44868); caraeal, Lynx caracal (44869); deer, Odocoileus (44870); specimens of tiger, Felis tigris; rough fox, Canis canerivorus (44871); king vulture, Gypagus papa (44914); mandrill, Papio maimon (44915); alligator, Alligator mississippiensis (44916); upland goose, Chlaphaga magellanica (44917); beaver, Castor canadensis (44918); Florida wildcat, Tynx rufus floridanus, American bison, Bison americanus (44919); rat kangaroo, Aeprymnus rufescens, manicou, Didelphys (44920); skin of emu, Dromeus nove-hollandix (44921); spectacled owl, Pulsatrix perspicillata (44949); bonnet monkey, Macacus sinicus (44950); rhea, Rhea americana (44983); Canada porcupine, Hrethizon dorsatus (45190); moufflon, Ovis musimon, hutia rat, Capromys pilorides (45191); rat kangaroo, Aeprymnus rufescens (45192); great horned owl, Bubo virginianus, glossy ibis, Plegadis autumnalis, and gang-gang cockatoo, Callocephalon galeatum (45193); trumpeter swan, Olor buccinator, Canada goose, Branta canadensis, and pintail, Dafila acuta (45194); aoudad, Ovis tragelaphus, and 2 hybrids from Cuban deer and Mexican deer (45195); pigtailed monkey, Macacus nemistrinus, and agouti, Dasyprocta azarex (45196); Sambar deer, Cervus aristotelis (45197); 3 comb lizards, Ctenosaura sp. (45198); grass parrakeet, Melopsittacus undulatus (45199); American coot, Fulica americana (45242); harbor seal, Phoca vitulina, capybara, Hydrocherus capybara, and rat kangaroo, Aeprymnus rufescens (45301); comb-lizard, Ctenosaura (45302); diamond rattlesnake, Crotalus adamanteus (45303) ; tree-duck, Dendrocygna (45804); agouti, Dasyprocta azare, and black ape, Cynopithecus niger (45305); agouti, Dasyprocta acouchy (45306); Java sparrow, Munia ory-
zivora (45307); European porcupine, |
Hystrix cristata (45323); rat kangaroo, Aeprymnus rufescens (45324); Louisiana heron, Ardea tricolor ruficollis (45325); green jay, Xanthoura luxuosa (45370);
SMITHSONIAN InstrITuUTION—Continued.
hornbill, Buceros, and night heron, Nycticorax nycticorax nevius (45371); coypu, Myocastor coypus (45372); harbor seal, Phoca vitulina, and black-striped wallaby, Macropus dorsalis (45378); Rocky Mountain sheep, Ovis canadensis (45374); sloth bear, Melursus ursinus (45375); buffalo, Bison americanus (45376); fox, Canis cancrivorus, and mule deer, Odocoileus hemionus (45535) ; gelada baboon, Theropithecus obscurus, and a yellow baboon, Papio babuin (45536); tiger, Felis tigris, and Arabian camel, Camelus dromedarius (45537); langur monkey, Presbytis entellus (45538); black ape, Cynopithecus niger, and Cuban deer, Odocoileus (45539); Canada goose, Branta canadensis, and egret, Ardea egretta (45540); road runner, Geococcyx californicus (2 specimens) (45541) ; kiwi, Apteryx mantelli (?) (2 specimens); kea, Nestor notabilis (45542); snowy owl, Nyctea nyctea (45543); massasauga, Sistrurus catenatus (45544); cross fox, Vulpes pennsylvanicus (45647); dasyure, Dasyurus, and Tasmanian devil, Sarcophilus ursinus (45648); bay lynx, Lynx rufus (45649); harbor seal, Phoca vitulina (45650); dingo, Canis dingo (2specimens) (45651); white ibis, Guara alba, peafowl, Pava cristatus (45652); roseatespoonbill, Ajaja ajaja (45653); langur monkey, Presbytis entellus (45654); tuatera lizard, Sphenodon punctatus (45655); pinesnake, Pitwophis melanoleucus, horned rattlesnake, Crotalus cerastes (45656); bull snake, Pityophis sayi (45657 }; roe deer, Capreolus caprea, langur monkey, Presbytis entellus (45658); little blue heron, Ardea cxrulea, lesser snow goose, Chen hyperborea (45659); 2 specimens of road runner, Geococcyx californianus (45660) ; specimens of comb lizard, Ctenosaura (45741); roseate spoonbill, Ajaja ajaja (45742); coot, Fulica americana, gannet, Sula bassana (45748); common macaque, Macacus cynomolgus, langur monkey, Presbytis entellus (45744); grass parrakeet, Melopsittacus undulatus (45815); snake bird, Anhinga anhinga (45816); California sea-lion, Zalophus californianus (45817); American beaver,

<<<Page: 102>>>

SmirHsonian Instrtutrion—Continued. Castor canadensis, grizzly bear, Ursus horribilis (45818); banded rattlesnake, Crotalus horridus (2 specimens) (45972) ; cockateel, Calopsittacus novex-hollandizx (45973); 6 arctic foxes, Vulpes lagopus (45974); 2 gray wolves, Canis occidentalis (45975) ; red squirrel, Sciurus hudsonicus (?), Barbary sheep, Ovis tragelaphus (45976); sparrow hawk, Falco sparverius (45977); glossy ibis, Plegadis autumnatlis, loon, Urinatorimber (45978) ; macaque monkey, Macaca cynomolga, yellow baboon, Papio babuin (45979); red howler, Alouata seniculus (45980); crested screamer, Chauna chavaria (45981); hutia rat, Capromys pilorides, fisher, Mustela pennanti (45982); burrhel sheep, Ovis nahoor (45983); spider monkey, Afeles, red howler monkey, Alouata seniculus (45984); Grevy’s zebra, Equus grevyi (45986); Arabian camel, Camelus dromedarius (45992); doguera baboon, Papio doguera (45993) ; comb-lizard, Ctenosaura sp. (45994) .
SourH CAROLINA GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, Charleston, 8S. C.: Marl containing Tertiary fossils (44722); cretaceous marl from South Carolina (received through Earle Sloan) (45519).
SourH Daxorta STATE COMMISSION AT THE LoutstaNA PurcHASE Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from South Dakota (44668).
Spaupina, V. M., Tucson, Ariz.: 4 specimens of Krameria from Arizona (46053).
Sporrorp, G. L., Hospital Corps, U. 8. Army, Manila, Philippine Islands: Assassin-bug, Centrocnemes sp. (44987).
SPRINGER, FRANK, Burlington, Iowa: Crinoids, Talorocrinus patei (45810).
Spurtine, Evererr 8., Biddeford Pool, Me.: ‘‘Siil smelt,’’ Argentina silus (46015).
SraLtrorp, FLoRENcE, Sayre, Pa.: Badge of the Baltimore Convention (1905) of the Young Peoples’ Society of Christian Endeavor (44677).
STANDARD UNDERGROUND CABLE ComPANY, Pittsburg, Pa.: 4 insulated electrical conductors (44816).
Stanton, T. W., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: 12 specimens of cacti from New Mexico and Colorado (44630; 44648; 44685). Collected for the Museum.
Starr, Mrs. C. H., Globe, Ariz.: Beetle, Dendrobias mandibularis (45095).
STEARNS, Eimer, Modesto, Cal.: 2 living specimens of cacti from Price, Utah (44898); 4 living specimens of cacti from Mexico (45774).
SressBins, Mrs. F. A., Chicago, Ill.: 2 copper coins (46096).
STEINBRUECK, E. R. (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. )
STEJNEGER, LEONHARD, U. S. National Museum: Mammals, mollusks, crustaceans, worms, and plants from Europe (44843: collected for the Museum); horned toad (45711: purchase). (See under O. J. Lie-Petterson and P. Stainer Stejneger. )
SrEJNEGER, P. Starner, Bergen, Norway: 3 pieces of Norwegian money (received through Leonhard Stejneger ) (44851).
SrEPHENSON, L. W. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
Strong, C. H., Cleveland, Ohio: Larvee and puparia of a small fly, Phora sp. (45219).
Strong, J. F., Columbus, Ohio: An unique and valuable specimen of Rhabdocarpus in the fossil seed of a carboniferous plant from a piece of coal mined in Pike County, Ind. (44877. )
Srosz, G. W., Washington, D. C.: Paleozoic fossils (45327: exchange).
SrrickeR, W. O., U.S. National Museum: Old-style weaving apparatus (46114), consisting of shuttle and quill from an old-fashioned band loom.
Stuur, F. A., Portland, Oreg.: Ringed pheasant, Phasianus torquatus (45413); 2 chipmunks from Los Angeles, Cal.; skull of lynx from St. Helen, Oreg.; skull of squirrel from Sandy River, Oregon, and skull of porcupine from Cascade Mountains, Oregon (45470); skin and skull of flying squirrel and skull of a mink (45769).

<<<Page: 103>>>

Sup1k, Hapsr ABpuLLAH ALI, Adis Abbaba, Abyssinia: Mounted specimen of | leopard (received through Hon. Theo| dore Roosevelt) (45216).
Scxsporr, N. N. ment of Agriculture. )
(See under Depart|
Sumner, Mrs. 8. §., San Francisco, Cal.: 9 plants from Hawaiian Islands (re| ceived through Brig. Gen. T. E. Wil| cox, U. 8. Army, retired) (45358).
Suter, Henry, Auckland, New Zealand: 4 mollusks, Voluta pacifica and Diplo| don waikanense, from New Zealand | (45746).
Sweeny, T. W., U. S. National Museum: | Jenks carbine (11121: loan). Swerman, J. W., Biloxi, Miss.: Shell of
Onadonta trapezoides (45707).
Swett, L. W., Malden, Mass.: 7 geometrid moths from southern Arizona | (44706); 3 Lepidoptera (44971).
SypneEy, New Sourn WaAtLgEs, UNIveErsiIty or Sypney: Rocks from New South | Wales, sent by request of Whitman Cross, of the U. 8. Geological Survey (45253).
Tart, J. S., & Company, Keene, N. H.: | 4 pieces of Hampshire pottery (45702). _
Tassin, Wirt, U. S. National Museum: Dulling snoods from Virginia, handles, horsehair swords, and ticklers, made by | Mr. Tassin (45091).
Terry, W. A., Bristol, Conn.: 2 micro| scopic slides of diatoms (44766).
TuHayer, J. E., Lancaster, Mass. : 86 birds’ skins from Panama, Gorgora Islands, | and Pearl Islands (45489); nest and 4 eggs of McLeod’s sparrow, Aimophila mcleodii (46118) (received through Outram Bangs). Exchange.
TuHayer, P. E., Thomas, W.Va.: 3 cecropia moths, Platysania cecropia, and an arctiid moth, Estigmene acrea (44702).
THOMAS, OLDFIELD, British Museum (Natural History), London, Mnegland: 4 specimens of red-backed mouse, Hvotomys, from Japan (46133; 15 mice, Microtus and Evotomys, from the Tian Shan Mountains and the Orkney Islands (45463); bat, Nyctinomus teniotis, from Africa (45900: exchange). |
Tuompson, A. C., Quincy, Mass.: Photograph of a bird stone (45834).
Tompson Porrery Company, C. C., East Liverpool, Ohio: Yellow pitcher (45685 ).
| Tuurow, F. W., Hockley, Tex.: 7 plants
from Texas (45236).
Tircoms, Joun W. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Topp, AurgEttus, Caibarien, Cuba: Shells
from the stomach of a flamingo (45318). Tracy, S. M., Biloxi, Miss.: 11 plants from the Southern States (44793); 2 plants from Texas (45949). (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
| TRAPHAGEN, Mrs. F. W., Butte, Mont.:
Portrait of George Washington on Wedgwood ware (10734: loan).
Trask, Mrs. BLANcHE, Avalon, Cal.: 15 specimens of mollusk, Polinices recluziana alta, from California (45766).
TrIsTAN, J. Frp, San José, Costa Rica: Crabs from Costa Rica (44652).
Truz, F. W., U. S. National Museum: Skull of a striped porpoise, Lagenorynchus acutus, from Truro, Mass. (45105: collected for the Museum).
Tucker, E. §., Lawrence, Kans.: 100 lepidoptera (45402); 45 insects (46116). exchange.
TULANE Untversity oF Lourstana, Newcomb College Art Department, New Orleans, La.: Piece of Newcomb pottery (received through E. W. Woodward, Director of Art Department (45745).
Turner, ArtHur, Norfolk, Va.: Kongo eel, Siren lacertina, from Lake Smith (45414).
Turton, Lieut. Col. W. H., Harley House, Clifton Down, Bristol, England: About 500 species of marine shells from Port Alfred, South Africa (45369).
Tytor, J. E., Oxford, Md.: Human bones collected from an Indian burial place in Florida (45907).
TyRRELL, J. B., Lovett Gulch, Klondike, Alaska: Skull of type of Simbos tyrrelli, collected by Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture (46138).

<<<Page: 104>>>

Unrica, E. O., U. 8. Geological Survey,
Washington, D. C.: Large collection of |
land and fresh-water mollusks (45508).
Unperwoop, Cecrt F., San José, Costa
Rica: Humming bird, Amazilia cinna|
momea, from Costa Rica (44656). Unpverwoop, L. M., Bedford Park, N.
Mex.: Plant from Florida (44762). UNITED
Srares CARTRIDGE COMPANY,
Lowell, Mass.: Collection of small arms, | consisting of 569 specimens (11423); |
U.S. Magazine rifle, model of 1903, with improvements of 1905 (11524).
Unirep Srares Natronan Museum: The >
following models were made in the Anthropological Laboratory: Plaster cast of bone awl, found by D. W. Bushnell, of St. Louis, Mo., in a mound at Montgomery, Pike County, Ill. (44872); mold and plaster cast of bone awl, the
original of which was owned by Mr. |
Bushnell (44925); casts of duck-head amulet found by William L. Bryant, Buffalo, N. Y., in a mound at Cedar
Keys, Fla. (45941); mold and 6 casts |
of Mississippi tablet (44968); mold and 6 casts of ‘‘Rattlesnake’’ disk in the University of Alabama (45090); model of wooden whistle (45491); plaster casts of Naples mound relies (45598); model of the U. 8. 8. Constitution (45661); casts of 2 stone ‘‘palmas”’ (45714); 6 casts of small engraved tablet of catlinite, the original of which was found by Henry Montgomery in a mound in North Dakota (45748); casts of a birdstone found near Edmore, Montcalm County, Mich.
of North American Indians (46061); plaster casts of prehistoric objects of stone, bone, and pottery (46122); lay figures for a group of Wallachian peasants (46137).
Upsala, SWEDEN, UNIVERSITY oF UPSALA: 57 fossils (45578: exchange).
VALPARAISO, CHILE, MusEuM oF NATURAL | History: Specimens of 4 species of | crustaceans (45557); 2 leeches (46107). |
Vatway, W. H., Cleveland, Ohio: A | pair of plumed quails, Oreortyx pictus |
plumiferus (44/87).
Loan. |
(45942); | wooden compass (46021); plaster busts
| Van BricG_e Porrery Company, Colo-
rado Springs, Colo.: tery (45703).
VaqueEz, Mons. J., Pantin, Seine, France: Tertiary invertebrate and vertebrate fossils (45759: exchange).
12 pieces of pot-
VAUGHAN, Francis E., West Haven, Conn.: 79 stone and quartz arrow
points (44801); shell arrowheads from Connecticut (44966 ).
VauGHaAN T. Way.anp, U. 8. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: 2 corals from Osprey, Fla. (45965). (See also under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
Veuir, J. W., St. Joseph, Mich.: 16 species of marine shells from Florida (44791).
VENABLE BrorHers, Stone Mountain, Ga.: A six-inch dressed cube of granite (44988).
Verritt, A. Hyarr, Roseau, Dominica, West Indies: About 45 insects (44714);
insects (44828); crustaceans, with sketches (45437); crustaceans from
Dominica (45961).
Vera, C. G., Padang, Sumatra: 134 mammals from Japan (44865: purchase). VotKartT, Henry, St. Gallen, Switzer-
land: Danish weaving apparatus (‘‘Brikning’’), containing a piece of unfinished handiwork showing the process (45962: exchange); quadrangle boards, with string in process of weaying, photograph and 2 drawings (46120). WADDELL, Lieutenant-Colonel.
der Smithsonian Institution. )
(See un-
| Waites, L. A., Port Limon, Costa Rica:
Marl containing Tertiary fossils (44776); fossil and mound shells, and skull of an agouti (45382).
| Waupeyer, W., Anatomical Institute,
Berlin, Germany: 2 typical specimens of German brains (44745).
Waker, A. H., New York City: Collection of Ippers’ photomechanical prints and relief photograph (45970).
Wacker, Bryant, Detroit, Mich.: Specimen of a variety of water snail, Planorbis campanulatus (45321).

<<<Page: 105>>>

WALKER, GEORGE H., Chicago, Il: 17 plants from Illinois (45063).
Waker, JoHn B., New York City: Lilienthal flying machine (45630).
Waker, Mrs. Sopnie L., Alexandria, Va.: Experimental currency of Andrew Johnson (ten-dollar bill) (45883).
Wat, Auausr. (See under Smithsonian Institution ).
WALLINGSFORD, W. W., U. S. National Museum: 1 cent, United States currency, issued in 1835 (45452).
WatstncHam, Lord, Werton Hall, Thetford, England: 14 Tortricid-moths, 2 tineid-moths, and a limacodid moth (received through H. G. Dyar) (44738).
Water Reep MemoriaL Association, Baltimore, Md.: Marble bust of Maj. Walter Reed (received through Daniel C. Gilman, chairman of the committee) (11891: loan).
War Department, Hon. William H. Taft, Secretary: Punch bow! made from a tridacna shell and silver mounted, the work of Tomas Zamara, and a silver coffee set, also made by Senor Zamara, containing 31 pieces (45435).
Bureau of Ordnance, Brig. Gen. William Crozier, Chief: Springfield smooth-bore (flint-lock) musket of the ‘‘Charleville pattern,’’ together with a collection of small arms, and swords, entrenchment tools from the Springfield Armory (44989, 44990); 2 United States magazine rifles, model of 1903, with improvements of 1905 (45803).
Signal, Corps U.S. Army, Gen. A. W. Greely, Chief Signal Officer. Pear] drag constructed and used by the Sulu Moros (45172); 81 plants from Alaska‘sent to the Department of Agriculture by Corporal
Charles W. H. Heideman, Fort | Gibbon, Alaska, and transferred to |
the Museum (45234).
Warp, Lester F., U. 8. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: 10 specimens of Orobranche sp., and Bidens trichosperma from the District of Columbia (44922) (See also under Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey).
Warwick CHINA Company, Wheeling, — W. Va.: Vase (45692). | Wasser, Henry, U. 8. National Museum: |
Ground mole from Landover, Md. | (45489). | Waters, C. E., Washington, D. C.: 7 | plants from the United States (44672: | exchange); specimen of Lycopodium — selago from New York (45506). Watkins, A. Octavius, Royal Mint, | Perth, West Australia: Stibio-tantalite © from Greenbushes, West Australia, | weighing 31 grams (45851: exchange). )
Warkins, Mrs. M.8., Washington, D. C.: One of the first envelopes received from 1 San Francisco, Cal., after the earth| quake of April, 1906 (46037).
Wayne, ArtHurT., Mount Pleasant, 8.C.: Arizona crested flycatcher, Myiarchus : mexicanus magister (45208). |
Wess, J. G., Osprey, Fla.: 4 living specimens of cacti from Florida (46005); » butterflies, Pontia monuste and Pontia m. phileta (46038).
Weser, S. E., Lancaster, Pa.: 10 pups and adults of mosquitoes, Culex pipiens (45332).
WessterR, WittiAM H., Waiuku, Auckland, New Zealand: 2 specimens of mollusk, Australium heliotropium (45107: exchange).
Weep, W. H., U. 8. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: 3 specimens of copperore from Beaverhead County, Mont. (45808). (See also under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey, )
WeeEDEN, W. C., U.S. National Museum: Wesson and Leavett revolver (45971).
Weeks, STEPHEN B., San Carlos, Ariz.: Fragments of burial urns and of incinerated human bones, from an Indian burial place at San Carlos (44688).
Wei, Norton, Calhoun, Ky.: Oak gall from a post-oak (44893).
WEINBERG, FRANK, Woodside, N. Y.: 4 living plants from Africa (45128); liying plants (45380; 45919).
WetsH-Lorrrus URANIUM AND RARE Merats Company, Richardson, Utah: Specimen of vanadium ore, not yet definitely named (44646).

<<<Page: 106>>>

WeEuzLEer, FreED., San Francisco, Cal.: | Tubular pipe of catlinite (?) from near Concho, Apache County, Ariz. (45078).
WercKLE, C., Cartago, Costa Rica: 14 plants from Costa Rica (44651).
WestinaHouse Company, GEorGE, Pittsburg, Pa.: Tantalum lamp, Nernst lamp, 3 minerals on glass, 7 minerals, also other articles from the Lewis and Clark Exposition, Portland, Oreg. (45798).
Waerattey Potrery Company, Cincinnati, Ohio: 2 mottled vases (45695). Wnairs, C. R., Naples, Me.: Caddis-fly,
larva, and case (44742).
Warre, Davip. (See under Ralph Cairns, W. P. Ball, and Baird Halbertstadt. ) Wuirs, I. C., Morgantown, W. Va.: Brazilian rocks (45732); fossils from Brazil
(45756).
Wuirte, Taomas, Winchendon Springs, Mass.: Impression of fossil shell (45715).
Warrine, E. N., Coulinga, Cal.: Moth from California (44743).
Wipceon, J., Maryland Academy of Sciences, Baltimore, Md.: Salina fossils from Maryland (45178).
Wicar, F. W. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Wixtcox, GLENN A., Tucson, Ariz.: Plants from Arizona (44707; 44741; 44808). Witcox, Brig. Gen. T. E., U S. Army (retired), Washington, D. C.: Lumbar vertebra of a mastodon from Hangmans Creek, Idaho (45108); fragments of teeth of a fossil horse from Loup Fork Miocene concretions, Fort Niobrara, Nebr. (45597); specimen of pine from the Philippine Islands, collected by R. G. Egbert (45827). under Mrs. 8. S. Sumner. |
Witey, Greorcr, Winter, Wis.: Moth of Telea polyphemus (44701).
Wiuuarp, T. E., U.S. Geological Survey: 15 specimens of Ordovician limestone | with fossils from the western section of | Maryland (45355). |
Wittcox, JoserH, Philadelphia, Pa.: |
Mollusk, Cardium virginianum, from
near Newport News, Va. (45320).
See also
NAT Mus 1906——7
; Woopwarp, E. W.
WI..ets MANUFACTURING CoMmPANy, Trenton, N. J.: Cup, saucer, and plates (45697) .
Wituiams, G. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Wituramson, E. B., Bluffton, Ind.: Crayfishes (45189); 3 specimens of living crayfishes, Cambarus argillicola (45881).
Wiis, Bartey, Carnegie Institution, Washington, D. C.: 6 photographs of Cambrian glacial boulders collected in China during the expedition of the Carnegie Institution (45076). (See also under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey.
WiiLoucHesy, C.C. (See under Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology.)
Witmer, Lieut. Col. L. Worrurineton, Lothian House, Ryde, Isle of Wight, England: Cretaceous fossils from the Isle of Wight and about 20 fossil and recent mollusks, insects, and a piece of moss (45261; 45734).
WILSON, CHARLES B., State Normal School, Westfield, Mass.: Parasitic copepods, (Caliginee) (45188); parasitic copepods (45500). (See aso under Rev. Canon A. M. Norman. )
Wrrt Evectric Company, INCORPORATED, Philadelphia, Pa.: Wirt voltmeter No. 101, and Wirt voltmeter No. 239 (44824).
Woop, N. R., U. S. National Museum: Young peacock, Paro cristatus (44647); 2 baffle-heads, Charitonetta albeola (45087).
WooprorFrs, THomas. (See under North Carolina Granite Corporation. )
(See under Tulane University of Louisiana, Newcomb College Art Department. )
Miss.:
axillaris
WoopwortTH, ©. C., Clearwing-moth,
( 45047).
Wooton, E. O., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.: 5 specimens of plant, Sedum wootoni, from New Mexico (44640).
Work, J. L., Lancaster, Ohio: Photograph of the skull of an elk with ‘triplet antlers’’ (45832).
Stamper, Hemaris

<<<Page: 107>>>

WorrtHen, G. C. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Wutrine, J. M., St. Louis, Mo.: Bone implement (46031). (See also under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. )
Wyomine ComMIssIon AT THE LEWIS AND CuarK Exposition, Portland, Oreg.: Copper ore from Encampment, Wyo., mined by the Penn-W yoming Company (45467).
WyominG STATE COMMISSION AT THE LoutstanA PurcHaAsre Exposition: Ores and nonmetallic minerals from Wyoming (44669).
Yate University Mustum, New Haven, Conn.: Crinoid slab found in the Helderbergian of Herkimer County, N. Y.; and plaster casts of Leidy’s types of mammals; Cretaceous fossils; 6 fossil invertebrates and 3 fossil plants (44962; 45056: exchange; 45758); shells from Bermuda (45874).
Youne, R. T., Boulder, Colo.: Lizard, Sceloporus consobrinus (45116); 17 mammals from Colorado (45638).
ZALESKY, Dr. William, U. 8. Navy, Washington, D. C.: Larva of Mantis from Santo Domingo (45055).
ZEIGLER, C. W., & Company, Gettysburg, Pa.: 1,000 pounds of diabase from Gettysburg (45614: purchase).
ZELEDON, Sefiora AMPORA DE: 2 hummingbirds, 5 shells and crustaceans from Costa Rica (44658).
ZELEDON, Jose C., San José, Costa Rica: 14 birds’ skins and mammals (44657). Zeus, Caru C., Fredalba Park, Cal.: 4
specimens of insect, Notonecta insulata (45008).
ZIEGLER, Mrs. E. M., New York City: 3 mounted Polar bears (45157).
ZooLoGicAL MusEum. tiania, Norway.)
(See under Chris

<<<Page: 108>>>

Annual Report | of the | Board of ReU. S. National Museum. | | Washington | Government Printing Office | 1905. |
Bulletin 52 (Part I), pp. 1-704. ' rector, U. 8S. Navy; Curator, Division | of Medicine, U. S. National Museum | A monograph | on the | Isopods of North | Washington | Government America | By | Harriet Richardson | | Printing Office | 1905. | Collaborator, Division of Marine InBulletin 55, pp. i-v, 1-62, pls. I-xrv.
a Part I was prepared by Charles Schuchert, assisted by W. H. Dall, T. W. Stanton, and R.S. Bassler. 95

<<<Page: 109>>>

FROM THE REPORT FoR 1904.
Report upon the condition and progress of the U. S. National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1904. By Richard Rathbun. © pp. 1-186.
Report on the department of antnropology for the year 1903-4. By Otis Tufton Mason. pp. 61-75.
Report on the department of biology for the vear 1903-4. By Frederick W. True. pp. 77-95.
Report on the department of geology for the year 1903-4. By George P. Merrill. pp. 97-104.
Contributions to the history of American geology. By George P. Merrill. pp. 189-733, pls. 1-37, figs. 1-141.
TheS. 8. Howland collection of Buddhist religious art in the National Museum. By Immanuel M. Casanowicz. pp. 735-744, pls. 1-17.
Flint implements of the Fayum, Egypt. By Heywood Walter Seton-Karr. pp. 745-751, pls. 1-12.
No. 1407. List of fishes collected by Dr.
Bashford Dean on the Island |
| By | David Starr Jordan and Alvin |
of Negros, Philippines.
Seale. pp. 769-803, figs. 1-20.
No. 1408. The life history of the seahorses (Hippocampids). By Theodore Gill. pp. 805-814,
figs. 1-12.
. 1409. Notes on an adult goblin shark (Mitsukurina owstoni) of Japan. By Barton A. Bean.
pp. 815-818, figs. 1-2.
. 1410. Notes on cestode cysts, Tzenia chamissonii, new _ species, from a porpoise. By Edwin Linton. pp. 819-822, pl.
No. 1411. Birds collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the Kilimanjaro region, East Africa. By Harry C. Oberholser. pp. 823-936.
| No. 1412. A descriptive list of a collection
of early stages of Japanese Lepidoptera. By Harrison G. Dyar. pp. 937-956, figs. 1-23.
No. 1418. Additions to the recorded hymenopterous. fauna of the Philippine Islands, with descriptions of new species. By William H. Ashmead. pp. 957-971.
No. 1414. Notes on the fishes of Puget Sound. By Charles H. Gilbert and Joseph C. Thompson. pp. 973-987, figs. 1-3.
No. 1415. Cambrian faunas of China. By Charles D. Walcott. pp.
1-106.
. 1416. New Hymenoptera from the Philippines. By William.H.
Ashmead. pp. 107-119.
No. 1417. ican Siphonaptera.
F. Baker.
By Carl pp. 121-170.
The classification of the Amer|
No. 1418. A new subspecies of ground dove from Mona Island, Porto Rico. By J. H. Riley. pp. 171, 172.
No. 1419. New genera of South American
moths. By MHarrison§ G. Dyar. pp. 173-178.
No. 1420. Descriptions of new South American moths. By Wil-’
liam Schaus. pp. 179-345.

<<<Page: 110>>>

pena ote
1423.
. 1425.
1426.
. 1428.
. 1429.
. 1480.
. 1431.
2. A list of fishes collected
Some new South American moths. By William Warren. pp. 347-352.
Tahiti by Mr. Henry ‘P.
Bowie. By Dayid Starr Jor-
dan and John Otterbein Sny-
der. pp. 353-357, figs. 1-3.
A list of American cochlidian moths, with descriptions of new genera and species. By Harrison G. Dyar. 396.
. New genera and species of
Hymenoptera from the Philippines. By William H. Ashmead. pp. 397-413.
Thomas Martyn and the Universal Conchologist. By William Healey Dall. pp. 415432.
The mounted skeleton of Triceratops prorsus. By Charles W. Gilmore. pp. 433-435, pls. 1-2.
. Five new species of Mexican
plants. 437-439.
By J. N. Rose. pp.
Two new umbelliferous plants from the coastal plain of Georgia. By J. N. Rose. pp. 441, 442, pl. mr.
Descriptions of three Mexican violets. By J. N. Rose and H. D. House. pp. 448, 444,
pl. ry.
Description of a new species of Livoneca from the coast of Panama. By Harriet Richardson. pp. 445, 446, figs. 1-2.
The breeding habits and the segmentation of the egg of the pipefish, Siphostoma floridee. By Eugene Willis Gudger. pp. 447-500, pls. v—Xx1, figs. 1, 2.
pp. 359-
. 1432.
Notes on exotic forficulids or earwigs, with descriptions of new species. By James A. G. Relm. pp. 501-515, figs. 1-9.
33. List of fishes collected in 1882-
. 1435.
. 1437.
. 1439.
. 1440.
. 1441.
1438.
83 by Pierre Louis Jouy at Shanghai and Hongkong, China. By David Starr Jordan and Alvin Seale. pp. 517-529, figs. 1-6.
. On the syntomid moths of
southern Venezuela collected in 1898-1900. By Edward A. Klages. pp. 531-552.
A fossil raccoon from a Cali-
fornia Pleistocene cave deposit. By James Williams Gidley. pp. 553, 554, pl. x1.
. The monkeys of the Macaca
nemestrina group. By Gerrit S. Miller, jr. pp. 555-563, pls. x1nm-xx.
A new lizard of the genus Phrynosoma, from Mexico. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 565-567.
A study of the wings of the Tenthredinoidea, a superfamily of Hymenoptera. By Alexander Dyer MacGillivray. pp. 569-654, pls. xxi— XLIv, figs. 1-20.
A new blattoid from the ‘Cretaceous formation of North America. By Anton Handlirsch. pp. 655, 656, fig. 1.
On some bats of the genus Rhinolophus, collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the islands of Nias and Engano. By Knud Andersen. pp. 657-659.
Revision of American Paleozoic
insects. By Anton Handlirsch. pp. 661-820, figs. 1-109.

<<<Page: 111>>>

1442.
. 1448.
1444.
A study of the James types of Ordovician and Silurian Bryozoa. By Ray S. Bassler.
‘pp. 1-66, pls. vin.
The life history of the cave salamander, Spelerpes maculicaudus (Cope). By Arthur M. Banta and Waldo L. McAtee. figs. 1-3.
Descriptions of new South American moths. By William Schaus. pp. 85-141.
No. 1445. Descriptions of six new species
. 1446.
1447.
No. 1448.
1449.
. 1450.
of fishes from Japan. By David Starr Jordan and Alyin Seale. New American Paleozoic Ostracoda. Notes and descriptions of Upper Carboniferous genera and species. By Ed-
ward ©. Ulrich and Ray S. |
Bassler. pp. 149-164, pl. xr.
A new ruminant from the Pleistocene of New Mexico. By James Williams Gidley. pp. 165-167, figs. 1-3.
Descriptions of new Hymenoptera from Japan. By William H. Ashmead. pp. 169-201, pls. x1I-xv.
The osteology of Sinopa, a creodont mammal of the Middle Eocene. By William Diller Matthew. pp. 203-233, pl. xvi, figs. 1-20.
The Locustidze and Gryllide (katydids and crickets), collected by W. T. Foster in Paraguay. By Andrew Nelson Caudell. pp. 235-244.
No. 1451. Brains and brain preservatives.
By Ales Hrdlicka. 320b, figs. 1-27.
pp. 245-
. 1452. Notes on Japanese, Indopacific,
and American Pyramidellide. By ‘William Healey Dall and Paul Bartsch. pp. 321-369, pls. XVII-XXVI.
pp. 67-83, pls. vi1m—-x,°
pp. 143-148, figs, 1-6. |
No. 1453. Notes on South American grass-
1454.
1456.
1457.
. 1458.
1459.
1460.
. 1461.
. 1462.
hoppers of the subfamily Acridinze (Acridide), with descriptions of new genera and species. By James A. G. Rehn. pp. 371-391.
Descriptions of two new naiads.
By Paul Bartsch. pp. 393395, pls. XXVII-XXIX.
5. A synopsis of the sturgeons
(Acipenseridze) of Japan. By David Starr Jordan and John Otterbein Snyder. pp. 397, 398. °
Descriptions of new genera and species of South American geometrid moths. By William Warren. pp. 399-557.
A new salamander from North Carolina. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 559-562, figs. 1-6.
Cambrian faunas of China. By Charles D. Walcott. pp. 563-595.
Descriptions of three new species of -katydids and a new genus of crickets irom Costa Rica. By James A. G. Rehn. pp. 997-605, figs. 1-8.
Notes on some recent additions to the exhibition series of vertebrate fossils. By Chas. W. Gilmore. pp. 607-611, pls. XXX-XXxv.
Synoptic list of Paraguayan Acridide, or locusts, with descriptions of new forms. By Lawrence Bruner. pp. 613-694, pls. XXXVI-XXXVIII.
List of fishes collected on Tanegaand Yaku, offshore islands of southern Japan, by Robert Van Vleck Anderson, with descriptions of seven new species. By David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. pp. 695-706, figs. 1-13.

<<<Page: 112>>>

817, 818.
1463. A review of the American | No. 1472. The mammals of Engano
moths of the genus CosmopIsland, West Sumatra. By
teryx Hibner. By August Gerrit 8. Miller, jr. pp. 819Busck. pp. 707-718. 825.
1464. A review of the sand lances or | No, 1473. Three new fungize, with a deAmmodytidee of the waters scription of a specimen of of Japan. By David Starr Fungia granulosa Klunzinger, Jordan. pp. 715-719, figs. 1, 2. and a note ona specimen of
1465. Tineid moths from southern Fungia concinna Verrill. By Texas, with descriptions of T. Wayland Vaughan. pp.
“new species. By August 827-832, pls. LXVII-LXXIV. Buseck. pp. 721-736, figs. 1-10. No. 1474. On a species of loach, Misgur. 1466. Notes on the Malayan pigs. sate ee Seat ByGeritS: Miller $P.-pp-797= | ews Ma ee northern China. 758 Se Eee OE RE By David Starr Jordan and Pare ete sty John Otterbein Snyder. pp. . 1467. A new American pentremite. 833, 834, fig. 1. By Charles Schuchert. pp. 759, 760, figs. 1-3. No. 1475. Description of a new genus and
Pues Gyntcallovtion of Gehes aade species of fossil seal from the by P. O. Simons in Ecuador Miocene of Maryland. By and Peru. By Edwin C. Frederick W. True. pp. 835Starks. pp. 761-800, pls. Lxv, 840, pls. LXXV, LXXVI.
LXvVI, figs. 1-10. | No. 1476. The giant bass of Japan. By
1469. Notes on birds from German David Starr Jordan and John and British East Africa. By Otterbein Snyder. pp. 841Harry C. Oberholser. pp. 845, figs.-1, 2.
801-811. ; tee tenant 1470. Descriptions of a new species No. 1477. A new species of Coenocyathus of Theadin-(eanily Pome from California and the Bra: : zilian astrangid corals. By midz)fromJapan. By David a a : T. Wayland Vaughan. pp. Starr Jordan and Richard = s 7 Crittenden “McGregor. pp: 847-850, pls. LXXVII, LXXVIII. 813-816, fig. 1. No. 1478. New fishes from Santo Do-
1471. Anew tree toad from Costa Rica. mingo. By B. W. Evermann
By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. and H. Walton Clark. pp.
851-855, figs. 1-3.
Part S. Directions for collecting information and objects illustrating the history of
medicine.
By James M. Flint, M. D., U.S. Navy (retired), pp. [1)-.
Part 1. North American species of Festuca. vii-ix, pls. I-xv.
By Charles V. Piper.
pp. i-vi, 1-48

<<<Page: 113>>>

Mason, Oris Turton. Report on the department of anthropology for the year 1903-4.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), 1904 (1906), pp. 61-75.
Merriutu, GeorGce P. Report on the department of geology for the year 1903-4. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1904 (1906), pp. 97-104.
Rarusun, Ricnarp. Report upon the condition and progress of the U. 8. National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1904.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), 1904 (1906), pp. 1-186.
Truk, Freperick W. Report on the de-
partment of biology for the year 1903-4. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1904 (1906), pp. 77-95.
Casanowicz, ImmManuEL M. The S. S. Howland collection of Buddhist. re-
ligious art in the National Museum. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1904 (1906), pp. 735-744, pls. I-XvIl. Gives a sketch of the origin, doctrines, and history of Buddhism, followed by a description of 27 objects.
Fuint, JAmMes M. Directions for collecting information and objects illustrating
the history of medicine. Bull. U.S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, pt. S, Aug. 8, 1905, pp. .
Hoimes, Wittram H. Certain notched or scalloped stone tablets of the mound
builders.
Am. Anthropologist (new series), VIII, No. 1, Jan.-Mar., 1906, pp. 101-108, pls. xm,
XIII, 2 figs. Calls attention to the paper of Mr. Clarence B. Moore, in which he describes and illustrates stone plates, which he is able to identify as mortar plates, or palettes, intended for grinding pigments. The distribution of the designs is carefully studied by the author.
Houecu, Water. Pueblo environment. Science (new series), XXIII, No. 597,
June 8, 1906, pp. 865-869. Treats of the geography, geology, meteorology, and biology of the Pueblo region and
Houcu, Watrer—Continued. discusses the environment with regard to its general effects on man’s body and activities. This paper was the address of the vice-president and chairman of Section H, American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Sacred springs in the southwestern United States. Records of the Past, v, pt. v1, June, 1906, pp. 163-169.
Treats of spring worship among the Pueblo Indians, in whose country this feature of their life is emphasized by the arid environment and consequent importance of water. The ceremonies performed around springs, the offerings placed in them, and the lore connected with them are described.
Hrpuicka, Anes. Notes on the San Carlos Apache. Am. Anthropologist (new series), vu, No. 3, July-Sept., 1905, pp. 480-495, pls. xxxXXXII, 7 figs.
A brief account of the present status and mode of life of the Apaches on the San Carlos Reservation, Ariz., with notes on their subdivisions, dwellings, manufactured objects, habits, and customs, and on antiquities in the San Carlos Valley.
Diseases of the Indians, more especially of the southwest United States
and northern Mexico. Washington Medical Annals, iv, Dec., 1905, pp. 372-394.
A résumé of personal observations, and special data furnished by physicians in the Indian Service, on diseases among the Indians, with a discussion,
No. 6,
Notes on the Pima of Arizona. Am. Anthropologist (new series), VIII, Jan.— Mar., 1906, pp. 39-46, pls. vi1I-1X, 8 figs. Brief account of the tribe as it exists at the present time (1905), including notes on dwellings, manufactures, and customs.
Brains and brain preservatives. Proc. U, S. Nat.*Mus., Xxx, No. 1451, June 4, 1906, pp. 245-320b, figs. 1-27.
A detailed account and graphic illustrations of the results of experiments in the laboratory of the divison of physical anthropology, U. 8. National Museum, with 15 different preservatives containing formalin.
Contribution to the physical an-
thropology of California. Pub. Univ. California, Am. Archeology and Ethnology, Iv, No.2, Berkeley, June, 1906, 20 figs. A detailed description of a series of California mainland crania.

<<<Page: 114>>>

Seron-Karr, Heywoop Watrter. Flint implements of,the Fayum, Egypt.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1904 (1906), pp. 745-751, pls. I-XII. Describes and illustrates a great variety of chipped stone implements far antedating the historic period of lower Egypt.
MAMMALS, ANDERSEN, Knup. On the bats of the Rhinolophus philippinensis group,
with descriptions of five new species. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (series 7), XVI, Aug., 1905, pp. 244-257.
Describes specimen No. 124767, U.S. N. M., |
collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott on Banka, as Rhinolophus solitariarus, p. 250. The types of four other new species are in the British Museum: Rh. sedulus, p. 247; Rh. lanosus, p. 248; Rh. geminus, p 2538; Rh. beddomei, p. 253. on the bats of the Rhinolophus arcuatus group, with descriptions of five new forms. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. Sept., 1905, pp. 282-288. Systematic revision of and remarks on the group. No. 125314, U. 8. N. M., is made the type of Rhinolophus inops, p. 284.
(series
— on the bats of the Rhinolophus macrotis group, with descriptions of two new forms.
Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (series 7), Xv, Sept., 1905, pp. 289-292. No. 105487, U. S. N. M., is made the type of Rhinolophus hirsutus, p. 289.
on some bats of the genus Rhinolo| phus, with remarks on their mutual |
affinities and descriptions of twenty-six new forms. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1905, 11, Oct. 17, 1905, pp. 75-145, pls. U1, Iv.
A systematic revision of eastern Rhinolophi, with remarks on affinities of the Ethiopian and western Palearctic species.
No. 101966, U. S. N. M., is made the type of
new species Rhinolophus virgo, p. 88. No. |
101714, U. S. N. M., is made the type of Rhinolophus nereis, p. 90. No. 104753, U.S.N.M.,
is made the type of Rhinolophus affinis nesites, |
p. 104. : On Hipposideros diadema and its closest allies. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (series 7), Xv1, Nov., 1905, pp. 497-507. Systematic revision of the group and general remarks on it. A list of the species and subspecies of the genus Rhinolopkus, with some noteson their geographical distribution.
Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (series 7), xvi, Dec., |
1905, pp. 648-662.
| Axpersen, Knup. On some bats of the genus Rhinojiophus, collected by Dr. W.L. Abbott on the islands of Nias and engano. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1440, Mar. 7, 1906, pp. 657-659.
Description of a new species and a new subspecies, Rhinolophus circe,and R. trifoliatus
niasensis, and notes on other species.
On Hipposideros caffer, Sund., and its closest allies, with some notes on H. fuliginosus, Temm.
Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (series 7), Xv11, Mar., 1906, pp. 269-282. Systematic revision of and general remarks on the group.
| Battery, Vernon. Identity of Thomomys umbrinus (Richardson). Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, Jan. 29, 1906, pp. 3-6. Thomomys umbrinus (Richardson) rede| seribed and skull figured.
A new white-footed mouse from Texas.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1xX, May 1, 1906, | pp. 57,58. New subspecies: Peromyscus pectoralis laceianus, p. 57.
Cary, Merrirr. Identity of Eutamias
| pallidus (Allen), with a description of
arelated form from the South Dakota Bad Lands.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, June 4, 1906,
pp. 87,90, No. 11656, U.S. N.M., selected
aslectotype of Euiamias pallidus( Allen),
which is redescribed. Eutamias pallidus cacodemus described as new, p. 89.
Hawn, Water L. A new bat from Mexico. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvi, Dee. 9, 1905, pp. 247-248. New species Hermiderma subrufum, p. 247.
Myotis lucifugus in Kamchatka. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv111, Dec. 9, 1905, p. 254, No. 12189 ty s. N. M., Myotis tuci37449 x Jugus, recorded from Kamchatka.
Lyon, Marcus W., Jr. The pigmy squir-
rels of the Nannosciurus melanotis group. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, May 1, 1906, pp. 51-56.
This paper is based mainly on material collected in the Malay Archipelago by Dr. W. L. Abbott and presented by him to the U.S. National Museum. Systematic revision of the group. New species: Nannosciurus swmatranus, p. 538; N. borneanus, p. 54; N. bancanus, | p. 55.

<<<Page: 115>>>

a Lyon, Marcus W., Jr. Type of the
genus Pronolagus. Proe. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, June 4, 1906, p. 95.
The type of this genus, based on No. 22972, U.S.N.M., is Pronolagus crassicaudatus Lyon (not Geoffroy)=P. ruddi Thomas~— and Schwann.
Mituer, Gerrit §., Jr. Note on the generic names Pteronotus and Derma-
notus. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvi, Oct. 17, 1905, pp. 223-226.
Pteronotus Gray, 1888, is shown to be a valid |
name for a Phyllostomid genus.
A new Africa. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xviit, Dee. 9, 1900, pp. 227, 228. Bat collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott at Taveta in 1889, described and named Lavia rex, p. 227. ¢
A new genus of bats from Sumatra. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv, Dec. 9, 1905, pp. 229, 230. : Description of the new Vespertilionine genus Phoniscus, p. 229, and of the new species Phoniscus atrox, p. 230, collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in eastern Sumatra in 1903.
A second specimen of Odonton-
ycteris meyeri Jentink. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvi, Dee. 9, 1905, p. 258. Notice of a specimen of this rare bat collected by Dr. Edgar A. Mearns on Cagayan Sulu, Philippine Islands.
The monkeys of the Macaca nemestrina group. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxX1x, No. 1436, Feb. 3, 1906, pp. 555-563, pls. XITI-Xx.
A revision of the monkeys of this group based mainly on specimens collected and presented to the U.S. National Museum by Dr. W.L. Abbott. Macaca broca, p. 258; M.adusta, p. 259; and M. insulana, p. 260, are described as new.
Two new carnivores from the Malay Peninsula. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XIX, Feb. 26, 1906, pp. 25-28.
Description of two Viverride collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott, and presented by him to the U. S. National Museum: Arctogalidia major, p. 25,and Parodoxurus robustus, p. 26.
A new name for Rhinolophus minutus Miller. : Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1X, Feb. 26, 1906, p. 41. Rhinolophus minutus Miller is shown to be preoccupied, and the species is renamed Rhinolophus minutillus.
bat from German East
Mitter, Gerrir §., Jr. The nomenclature of the flying lemurs. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, Feb. 26, 1906, p40:
The family is named Cologide (new) and the genera Colugo Gray (Philippine flying lemurs) and Cynocephalus Boddaert (Malayan flying lemurs) are defined.
Some voles from the Tian Shan range. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (series7), xv, Apr., 1906, pp. 371-375.
Descriptions of 4 voles sent for determination by the British Museum. Duplicates have been presented to the U.S. National Museum. New species: Alticola worthingtoni, p. 372; Evotomys centralis, p. 3738.
A new genus of sac-winged bats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, May 1, 1906, pp. 59,60. New genus: Myropteryx (Emballonuride), p. 59. New species: Myropteryx pullus, p. 60.
—w— Seven new Malayan bats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, May 1, 1906, pp. 61-66. i New species: Cynopterus princeps, p. 61; C. major, p. 62; C. pagensis, p. 62; C. minutus, p. 63; Pteropus baveanus, p. 63; P. niadicus, p. 64; Kerivoula depressa, p. 64.
Twelve new genera of bats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., x1x, June 4, 1906,
pp. 83-86. 5 Z Diagnoses of new genera, family Pteropide:Niadius, p. 83; Sphaerias, p. 88. Family Megadermide: Macroderma, p. 84. Family Phyllostomide: Ardops, p. 84; Erophylla, p. 84. Family Desmodontidz: Diaemus, p.84. Family Noctilionide: Dirias, p.84. Family Natalidx: Phodotes, p. 85. Family Vespertilionide: Pizonyx, p. 85; Rhinopterus, p. 85; Bxodon, p.
85. Family Molossidze: Eumops, p. 85.
——— A bat new to the United States. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, June 4, 1906, pp. 95-98. Cheronycteris mexicana recorded from Arizona.
The mammals of Engano Island, West Sumatra. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1472, June 4, 1906, pp. 819-825.
An account of 70 mammals collected on Engano by Dr. W. L. Abbott and presented to the U.S. National Museum. New species: Mus enganus, p. 821; Pteropus enganus, p. 822; Kerivoula engana, p. 825.
— Notes on Malayan pigs.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1466, June
18, 1906, pp. 737-758, pls. XXXIX-LXIV. Systematic revision of Malayan pigs, based on 62 specimens collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott and presented by him to the U.S. Na

<<<Page: 116>>>

Mier, Gerrit S., Jr.—Continued. tional Museum, as well as on material in European museums. New species described: Sus gargantua, p. 748; S. jubatus, p. 745; S. jubatulus, p. 745; S. rhionis, p. 749; S. peninsularis, p. 749; S. niadensis, p. 751; S. babi, p. 751; S. mimus, p. 793.
Oscoop, Witrrep H. A new vole from Montague Island, Alaska. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1X, May 1, 1906, pp. 71, 72. Describes Microtus elymocetes as new, p. 71.
SreJNEGER, LEoNHARD. The systematic name of the Japanese deer. Science (new series), XXII, Sept. 29, 1905, pp. 402, 403. Shows that Cerrus nippon Temminck, 1837, is 7 years older than Cervus sika.
Auraro, ANAsTAsIo. A new owl from
Costa Rica. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVII, Oct. 17, 1905, p. 217. Cryptoglaux ridgwayi is described as new.
BisHop, Louis B. Notes on a small collection of California birds with description of an apparently unrecognized race of Hutton’s vireo.
Condor, vit, No.5, Sept. 19, 1905, pp. 141-143.
Notes on 32 species of California birds, of
which Vireo huttoni oberholseri, p. 142, is described as new.
Deane, RurHven. The ruff (Pavoncella pugnax ) in Indiana. Auk, xxi, No.4, Oct., 1905, pp. 410, 411. Record of an Indiana specimen of this Old World species, with a list of previous North American records.
DwicHt, JONATHAN, Jr. Status and plumages of the white-winged gulls of the genus Larus.
Auk, xxi, No.1, Jan., 1906, pp. 26-48, pl. 1, 1 fig.
A discussion of the status of-5 species of this group, with a description of the plumage of each, accompanied by a table of measurements. Larus barrovianus is considered to be indistinguishable from L. glaucus.
Emerson, W. Orro. Oceanodroma leucorhoa and its relatfves on the Pacific
coast. Condor, vill, No. 2, Mar. 20, 1906, pp. 53-55.
The writer restricts Oceanodroma leucorhoa to the Atlantic, and describes 2 new species from the California coast, viz: O. beali and O. beldingi.
GRINNELL, JOSEPH. hawk. c Condor, VII, No. 6, Nov. 22, 1905, p. 170. Description of a new form, Chordeiles virginianus hesperis, from the San Bernardino mountains, California.
The Pacific night
JENKINS, Husperr O. Variation in the hairy woodpecker (Dryobates villosus and subspecies).
Auk, xxitt, No. 2, Apr., 1906, pp. 161-171, 2 figs.
A discussion of the variation in pattern of coloration and size in the hairy woodpecker and its subspecies, with remarks on their geographical distribution. Observations on the probable causes of variation are added.
OBERHOLSER, Harry C. The avian genus Bleda Bonaparte and some of its allies.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar.issue, III, pt. 2, No. 1588, July 1, 1905, pp. 149172.
— Birds collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the Kilimanjaro region, East Africa.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1411,
July 8, 1905, pp. 823-936.
_ This report is based upon a collection of 684 specimens made by Doctor Abbott during the years 1887-1889. The following genera and species are named as new: Astur sparsimfasciatus aceletus, p. 829; Lissotis notophila, p. 836; (Ena capensis anonyma, p. 843; Chalcopelia chalcospila acanthina, p. 845; Asio maculosus amerimnus, p. 856; Tachynautes, p. 860; Viridibucco, p. 865; Melignothes exilis meliphilus, p. 869; Odontospiza, p. 883; Arizelopsar, p. 887; Poneropsar, p. 888; Pycnonotus layardi micrus, p. 891; Acrocephalus orinus, p. 899; Notiocichla, p. 900; Anteliocichla, p. 901; Apalis thescela, p. 904; Cichlomyia, p. 908; Arizelomyia, p. 910: Platysteira cryptoleuca, p. 913; and Helionympha, p. 929.
The forms of Vermivora celata (Say).Auk, xxiI, No. 3, July, 1905, pp. 242-247. A synopsis of the forms of this species, with the geographical distribution of each. Vermivora celata orestera is described as new.
Description of a new Querquedula. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, June 4, 1906, pp. 93, 94. Querquedula orinomus, allied to Q. cyanoptera, is described as a new species from Lake Titicaca, Peru,
Notes on birds from German and
British East Africa. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1469, June 4, 1906, pp. 801-811. Notes on 26 species, based partly upon a reexamination of some of the material previ

<<<Page: 117>>>

OBERHOLSER, Harry C.—Continued. ously reported upon by the author, in connéction with a small collection from British East Africa in the Carnegie Museum, Pomatorhynchus senegalus armenus, p. 809, is described as new.
Ripeway, Roperr. Descriptions of some new genera of Tyrannide, Pipridee, and Cotingide.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVIII, Sept. 2, 1905, pp. 207-210.
The following new genera are the result of the author’s studies of the families Tyrannide, Pipridz, and Cotingide, in the preparation of part rv of Bulletin 50, U.S. National Museum: Aphanotriccus, p. 207; Terenotriccus, p. 207; Myiotriccus, p. 207; Atalotriccus, p. 208; Placostomus, p. 208; Cnemarchus, p. 208; Orodynastes, p. 208; Tyrannopsis, p. 209; Tolmarchus, p. 209; Phzxotriccus, p. 209; Allocotopterus, p. 209; Stictornis, p. 209; Idiotriccus, p. 210; Elainopsis, p. 210; Microtriccus, p. 210, and Hylonax, p. 210.
New genera of Tyrannide and Turdidze, and new forms of Tanagride and Turdide.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv11I, Oct. 17, 1905, pp. 211-213.
Describes the following as new: Platytriccus, p. 211; Haplocichla, p. 212; Chlorospingus zeledoni, p. 212; Phanicothraupis alfaroana, p. 212; Mimocichla rubripes, p. 218, and Catharus Srantzii omiltemensis, p. 213.
Description of an adult female Euphonia supposed to be Euphonia gnatho (Cabanis).
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi1, Oct. 17, 1905, pp, 225, 226.
Description of a female Euphonia thought
to represent the true £. gnatho from Costa
Rica, with some observations on the history of the species.
A winter with the birds in Costa Rica. Condor, v11, No. 6, Noy. 22, 1905, pp. 151160, 6 text figs. and frontispiece. A popular account of the writer’s visit to Costa Rica on behalf of the National Museum.
Some observations concerning the American families of Oligomyodian Passeres.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, Jan. 29, 1906,
pp. 7-16.
A discussion of the characters diagnostic of the families of Mesomyodian Passeres, particularly of the section Oligomyodi, with a key to the 14 Mesomyodian families here recognized. This is followed by observations on the limits of the families Tyrannide, Pipride, and Cotingide, a study of which has produced very unexpected results. Thus Lawrencia is transferred from the Tyrannide
Rrpaway, Rosperr—Continued.
to the oscine family Vireonide, and Sirystes, Hylonax, Idiotriccus, Elainopsis, Tyrannulus. Ornithion, and Culicivora are found to be members of the Cotingide, while Stigmatura, Hapalocercus, Habrura, and Muscigralia are removed from the Tyrannide and placed tentatively in the family Formicariide.
‘“‘Atratus versus Megalonyx,’’ Condor, Vi1I, No. 2, Mar. 20, 1906, p. 53. Reply to an article by Harry S. Swarth respecting the status of Pipilo maculatus megalonyx and P. m. atratus.
Ritey, J. H. A new subspecies of ground dove from Mona Island, Porto Rico.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix, No. 1418, Sept. 30, 1905, pp. 171, 172. Columbigallina passerina exigua, p. 171, is described as new.
Descriptions of three new birds from the Merida region of Venezuela. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV111, Oct. 17, 1905,
pp. 219-221.
The following species are described as new: Leptasthenura montivagans, p. 219, Haplospiza montosa, p. 220, and Pheucticus wropygialis meridensis, p. 220.
A new name for Lewis’s woodpecker. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi11, Oct. 17, 1905, pp. 224, 225. Asyndesmus lewisi is anew name for Picus torquatus Wilson, preoccupied.
List of birds collected or observed during the Bahama expedition of the
Geographic Society of Baltimore. Auk, xxii, No. 4, Oct., 1905, pp. 349-360. An annotated list of species, 71 in number, obtained or seen by the author in the Bahamas.
Sronp, Witmer. Ona collection of birds from British East Africa obtained by
Mr. George L. Harrison, jr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., for 1905, Jan. 24, 1906, pp. 755-782.
An account of a collection from British East Africa, numbering 212 species, with critical notes on many of them. Cisticola harrisoni, p. 771, is described as new.
> Bartey, VERNON. Report on the Biological Survey collection of lizards and snakes from Texas.
North Am. Fauna, No. 25, pp. 38-51, pl. xm. An annotated list of the species with special reference to the distribution of the species in
relation to the various life zones.

<<<Page: 118>>>

Banta, ARTHUR M., and McArTrxr, WaLpo L. The life history of the cave salamander, Spelerpes maculicaudus (Cope).
Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1443, April 2, 1906, pp. 67-83, pls. VIII-X. The entire material upon which this paper is based has been presented to the National Museum by the authors.
Coxer, Ropert E. Gardon’s hypothesis of ‘‘orthogenetic variation’? in Chelonia.
Johns Hopkins Univ. Cire. No. 178, May, 1905, pp. 9-24.
McArTez, Watpo L. M. Banta. )
SrEJNEGER, LEONHARD. The geographical
distribution of the bull-toads. Science (new series) XXII, No. 564, Oct. 20, 1905, p. 502.
The discovery of Bombina maxima in Yunnau corroborates the author’s theory that these batrachians originated in that part of the world.
A new lizard of the genus Phrynosoma, from Mexico. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1xX, No. 1437, Feb. 2, 1906, pp. 565-567. Phrynosoma ditmarsi described as a new species; type U.S. N. M. No. 36022. A new salamander from North Carolina. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1457, May 22, 1906, pp. 559-562. Plethodon shermant described as a new species; type U.S. N. M. No. 36214. A new tree toad from Costa Rica. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1471, June 4, 1906, pp. 817, 818. Hyla phlebodes described as a new species; type U. S. N. M. No. 29970.
Bean, Barton A. The history of the
whale shark, Rhinodon typicus Smith. Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVIII, Quar.
issue, III, pt. 2, No. 1587, July 1, 1905, pp,
139-148, pl. XXXIV-XXXVI, 4 figs.
Notes on an adult goblin shark (Mitsukurina owstoni) of Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1409, |
July 6, 1905, pp. 815-818, figs. 1, 2.
CrarKk, H. Watton. (See under Barton
Warren Evermann. )
EverMANN, Barton WARREN, and CLARK, H. Watton. New fishes from Santo Domingo.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1478, June 27, 1906, pp. 851-855, figs. 1-3.
(See under Arthur |
GILBERT, CHARLES H., and THOMPSON, JosepH C. Notes on the fishes of
Puget Sound. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX vill, Aug. 8, 1905, No. 1414, pp. 973-987, figs. 1-3.
GitL, THEoporE. The life history of the sea-horses (Hippocampids). Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxv, No. 1408, July 6, 1905, pp. 805-814.
After a section (1) on the characteristics of the family of Hippocampids and the genus Hippocampus, the habits of the sea-horses are considered in paragraphs relating to (2) their attitudes and movements, (4) their food, and (5) the sexual relations and manner of transfer of eggs from female to pouch of male. In coneluding paragraphs, (6) the specific characters of four species are illustrated, and (7) some foreign relations of the subfamily of solegnathines noticed.
— The family of cyprinids end the carp as its type.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls. Quar. issue, XLVIII, pt. 2, No. 1591, Sept. 8, 1905, pp. 195-217, pls. XLV-LVIII.
After introductory remarks follow discussions of relations to the cyprinids, characteristics of the cyprinids, especially those of the pharyngeal bones and teeth, distribution, and sexual differentiation. The ‘‘life history of the carp’’ is then considered (pp. 202-210), and this is followed by notices of other noteworthy cyprinids of Europe whose names have been perverted in other parts of the world to very different fishes. In addition to the four families recognized by the author in 1861 a new one (Gyrinochilidz) is proposed (p. 196) for a remarkable generic type from Borneo (Gyrinochilus).
—— Flying fishes and their habits. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1904 (1905), pp. 495-515, pls. 1-4.
After preliminay remarks on flight in general, the flying fishes are considered in two categories:
I. The exoccetoid flying fishes (497-508) are treated of with respect to (1) their adaptation for flight and the actual or alleged facts, (2) their food, (8) their procreation, (4) their enemies, (5) their economical value, and (6) the major differences among themselves.
Il. The Dactylopterids, or flying gurnards (508-515), are likewise discussed with respect to (1) their characteristics and flight, (2) their food, (3) the sounds they utter, (4) their later developmental stages, and (5) their capture.
GupGER, EuGENE Wiis. The breeding habits and the segmentation of the egg
of the pipefish, Siphostoma florid. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxX1x, No. 1481, Dec. 6, 1905, pp. 447-500, pls. V—X1, fig. 1.

<<<Page: 119>>>

JORDAN, Davip Starr. A review of the sand lances or Ammodytide of the waters of Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1464, June 4, 1906, pp. 715-719, figs. 1, 2. and McGrecor, Richarp CrirTENDEN. Descriptions of a new species of threadfin (family Polynemidee) from Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1470, June 4, 1906, pp. 813-815.
and Sraun, Atvin. List of fishes
collected by Dr. Bashford Dean on the |
Island of Negros, Philippines. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1407, July 3, 1905, pp. 769-803, figs. 1-20. List of fishes collected in 1882-83 by Pierre Louis Jouy at Shanghai and Hongkong, China. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX1x, No. 1433, Dec. 6, 1905, pp. 517-529, figs. 1-6.
— Descriptions of six new |
species of fishes from Japan. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1445, Apr. 4, 1906, pp. 143-148. and SnypDER, JOHN OTTERBEIN. A list of fishes collected in Tahiti by Mr. Henry P. Bowie. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX1x, No. 1422, Oct. 7, 1805, pp. 353-357, figs. 1-3. —— A synopsis of the sturgeons (Acipenseridee) of Japan. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1455, May 9, 1906, pp. 397, 398. On a species of loach; Misgurnus decemeirrosus (Basilewsky),
from northern China. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, No. 1474, June 16, 1906, pp. 883, 834.
The giant bass of Japan. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1476, June 16, 1906, pp. 841-845. and Starks, Epwin CHaPin. List of fishes collected on Tanega and Yaku, offshore islands of southern Japan, by Robert Van Vleck Anderson, with descriptions of seven new species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1462, June 4, 1906, pp. 696-706, figs. 1-18. McGrecor, RicHARD ORITTENDEN. under David Starr Jordan. )
(See
SEALE, ALVIN. Jordan.)
SNYDER, JOHN OTTERBEIN. David Starr Jordan. )
(See under
(See under David Starr
Starks, Epwin CHapin. On a collection of fishes made by P. O. Simons in Ecuador and Peru.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1468, June 14, 1906, pp. 761-800, pls. LXV, LXVI. (See also under David Starr Jordan. )
TuHompson, JosepH C. (See under Charles H. Gilbert. )
ByxBer, Epiru 8. (See under William E. Ritter. )
Rirrer, Witi1aAM E. Reports on the scientific results of the expedition to the eastern tropical Pacific, in charge of Alexander Agassiz, by the U.S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, from October, 1904, to March, 1905, Lieut. Commander L. M. Garrett, U.S. Navy, commanding. ty.—Octacnemus.
Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., XLVI, No. 13, Jan., 1906, pp. 233-252, pls. 1-111.
A critical study of a new species of Octacnemus, O. herdmani, five specimens of which were taken by the Albatross,off the coast of Ecuador.
and Byxserr, Epira 8. Reports on the scientific results of the expedition to the tropical Pacific in charge of Alexander Agassiz, in the U.S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross from August, 1899, to March, 1900, Commander Jefferson F. Moser, U.S. N., commanding. vu1.—The pelagic tunicata. Memoirs Mus. Comp. Zool., xxvi, No. 5, Aug., 1905, pp. 195-214, pls. I-11.
The collections reported upon include many localities in the Pacific Ocean visited by the Albatross since 1888. A new species of Pyrosoma, P. agassizi, is described, and a new name given to a known form, Oikopleura hualeyt.
BartscuH, Paun. Descriptions of two new
Naiads. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1454, May 9, 1906, pp. 393-396, pls. XXVII-XXIX.
In this paper Nephronaias flucki and Diplodon huapensis are deseribed as new;, the first from Nicaragua, the second from Lake Huapé, Argentina.
(See also under William Healey Dall. )

<<<Page: 120>>>

“/e* or ae
Dati, Wriuti1aAM HeaLey. A new genus collectéd in Central Mexico by Dr. Edward Palmer.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLVI, Quar.
issue, ItI, pt. 2, No. 1590, July 1, 1905, |
pp. 187-194, text figs. 22-25, pls. XLII, XLIV.
A description of shells collected and_presented to the Museum by Doctor Palmer, together with a list of his previous donations from the same region. The new genus Hendersonia (afterwards changed to Hendersoniella) is proposed for a remarkable discoid urocoptid, and details of its anatomy furnished by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry are described and figured. The following species are figured and described as new: Hendersonia palmeri, Xanthonyx potosiana, Strepbostyla potosiana, S. palmeri, Schazicheila palmeri, and Spherium mexicanum.
Note on the name Hendersonia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVI, July 12, 1905, p. 189.
The name Hendersonia published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue) being preoccupied by a slightly earlier use of the name in Helicinide, the new name Hendersonielia is proposed for the later genus.
Note on a variety of Crepidula nivea C. B. Adams, from San Pedro, California.
Vautilus, XIX, No. 3, July, 1905, pp. 26, 27.
A singular race of Crepidula discovered on Glottidia albida Hinds, and therefore given the mutational name of (. glottidiarum.
A new proserpinoid land shell from Brazil. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVIII, Sept. 2, 1905, pp. 201, 202. The new species, P. derbyi, is described and referred to a new section called Staffola. The
type was presented to the Museum by Dr. H. |
von Ihering and collected by Dr. O. A. Derby in Brazil.
A new chiton from the New England coast. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvu11, Sept. 2, 1905, pp. 203, 204.
The new species, Tonicella blaneyi, is described, from the coast of Maine, collected by Mr. Dwight Blaney who presented the type to the National Museum.
Note on the name Hendersonia. Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar. issue, III, pt. 2, Sept. 8, 1905, p. 239. Notes that Hendersoniella is substituted for Hendersonia, p. 187, op. cit.
| Dati, Witiram HEALEY. and several new species of land shells |
Thomas Mar-
tyn and the ‘Universal Conchologist.”’ Proc. U. S. ‘Nat. Mus., XX1X, no. 1425, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 415-432.
A discussion of Martyn’s life and work, with a synopsis of the genera and species contained in the Universal Conchologist, evidence being adduced that the first 80 plates were issued in 1784 and the second 80 in 1786.
Land and fresh-water mollusks.
Harriman Alaska Expedition, New York, Doubleday, Page & Co., x11, Nov. 20, 1905, pp. I-1x, 1-171, pls. I, 11, text figs. 1-118.
This volume forms a manual of land and fresh-water shells of North America north of latitude 49° N. Statistics are given with geographical tables; the relations with the Asiatic, Californian, and Canadian faunas are discussed. The species are enumerated under a revised nomenclature, many of them are illustrated and some new ones described. The nomenclature of the genera of fresh-water gastropods is revised at length and the groups they contain diagnosed. The volume closes with a bibliography of works relating to the mollusk fauna of the region referred to. The. following names are proposed as new: Cyclolimnxa, Lymnzxa anticostiana, L. perpolita, L. petersi, L. preblei, Paraspira, Pierosoma, Oreohelix stantoni, Planorbis megas, P. rudentis, Polygyra megasoma, Planorbula christyi, Torquis, Succinea alaskana, Valvata pelicoidea, V. nylanderi, Vitrina alaskana.
The types are in the national collection.
A new chiton from the New Eng-
land coast. Nautilus, Xtx, No. 8, Dee., 1905, pp. 88-90, pl. Iv. A reprint of the paper from the Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, further improved by an excellent plate.
On a new Floridian Calliostoma. Nautilus, X1x, No. 11, Mar., 1906, pp. 131, 132.
The species Calliostoma marion is described as new from the type in the National Museum. Itis shown that Eutrochus A. Adams, and other names which have been given to the umbilicate Calliostomas are, for various reasons, unavailable and the name Leiotrochus Conrad, 1863, is resuscitated for them. The type is unique.
Notes on some names in the Volutide. Nautilus, x1x, no. 12, Apr., 1906, pp. 143, 144.
In revising the Volutide of the Museum, some changes in the nomenclature and new names were found to be necessary. The following new names are proposed for the types

<<<Page: 121>>>

Dati, Witu1AM Hratry—Continued. indicated: Adelomelon Dall (V. ancilla Solander); Harpulina (V.* arausaica Sol.) for Harpula auctorum non Swainson; Maculopeplum Dall (V. junonia Hwass); the following old names are typified as indicated: Scaphella Swainson (V. undulata Lam.); Amoria Gray is probably a synonym; Volutilithes (V. muricina Lam.); Plejona Bolten (V. spinosa Lam.).
and Barrscn, Pauu. Notes on Japanese, Indopacific, and American Pyramidellide.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1452, May
9, 1906, pp. 321-369, pls., XVII-XXVI. This is a revision of an important series of chiefly Pacific Pyramidellide, partly belonging to the National Museum and partly loaned for study by the Kénigliche Zoologische Museum of Berlin, Germany. Ten plates of magnified figures illustrate these difficult little shells. Nisiturris, Babella, Egilina are proposed as new subgenera. The following species are described as new: Odostomia mauritiana, O. meta, O. dux, O. lecta, O. exaratissima, O. felix, O. lectissima, O. culta, O. timpida, O. desimana, O. densecostata (Garrett), subsp. upoluensis ; Pyramidella jacksonensis, P. japonica, P. digitalis, P. lischkei, Turbonilla abseida, T. approximata, T. acosmia, T. actopora, T. infantula, T. laticingula, T. bella, T. (nisiturris) erystallina; the following new names are proposed for species of which the current names are preoccupied: Turbonilla secura, T. candidissima, T. aulica, T. (Babella) cxlatior, T. garrettiana; Odostomia martensi; Pyramidella moffati. P. dunkeri; and forty-one species named by other authors are discussed and adequately described, many of them, especially those of A. Adams, for the
first time properly described and figured.
AsHMEAD, WituiAmM H. A skeleton of a new arrangement of the ants, or the superfamily Formicoidea.
Can. Ent., XXXvU, June, 1905, pp. 381-384. Gives an arrangement of the families, subfamilies, tribes, and genera, as arranged in his classification of the ants, which will probably appear in 1906. Additions to the recorded hymenopterous fauna of the Philippine Islands, with descriptions of new
species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxvitI, No. 1418, July 8, 1905, pp. 957-971.
New classification of the Poneride.
Tech. Series No. 10, Bur. Ent., U.S. Dept. |
Agric., July, 1905, pp. 38-40.
A synopsis of the subfamilies and tribes, with a list of the genera, furnished to Prof. O. F. Cook by Dr. Ashmead, from his torthcoming Classification of the ants.
AsuMEAp, Witt1AM H. New Hymenoptera from the Philippines. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxrx, No. 1416, Sept. 30, 1905, pp. 107,119. Describes 1 new genus, Krugeria, and 23 new species.
New genera and species of Hymenoptera from the Philippines. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1424, Oct. 5, 1905, pp. 397-413.
Describes 3 new genera, Hlasmognathus, Amauromorpha, and Hemiglyptus, and 27 new species.
Two new Mymaridee from Russian Turkestan. Ent. News, XV1, 1905, pp. 213, 214.
Describes Anagrus hydrophilus and Polynema
bergi.
Descriptions of new Hymenoptera
from Japan. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1448, May 11, 1906, pp. 169-201, pls. xII-xy.
In this paper 6 new genera and 73 new species, in the superfamily Ichneumonoidea, are described. The more conspicuous of these genera are figured.
Baker, Cart F. The classification of
the American Siphonaptera. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1417, Oct. 3, 1905, pp. 121-170.
Banks, NarHan. Descriptions of new species of neuropterous insects from the
Black Mountains of North Carolina. Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., xxi, July 24, 1905, pp. 215-218. Describes 9 new species.
New genera and species of Perlidee. Psyche, X11, Aug., 1905, pp. 55-57, 3 figs. Describes 2 new genera and 4 new species.
Descriptions of some new mites. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vit, Oct., 1905, pp. 133-142, 4 figs. Describes 1 new genus and 20 new species. A revision of the nearctic Hemerobiidee. Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., XXXII., Feb., 1906, pp. 21-51, 3 pls. Barver, Herpert 8. _ Illustrations of an
undetermined coleopterous larva. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v11, Oct., 1905, p. 117.
The spread of Spheeridium scarabeeoides Linnzeus.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v11, Oct., 1905, p. 127.
Note on Phengodes in the vicinity
of Washington, D. C. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, Dec., 1905, p. 196.

<<<Page: 122>>>

Bruner, LAWRENCE.
Paraguayan Acridide, with descriptions |
of new forms. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1461, June 5, 1906, pp. 613-694.
Buscx, Aucust. Descriptions of Amer-
ican moths of the genus Cerostoma. Ent. Synoptic table of genus and description of
4 new species.
New American Tineina. Can. Ent. XXvitI, Apr., 1906, pp. 121-125. Descriptions of 7 new species.
A new tortricid from Texas. Can. Ent., XXVIII, May, 1906, p. 211. Description of Cydia grindeliana, sp. noy.
A new injurious pine-needle moth. Can. Ent. XxvuI, May, 1906, p. 212. Descriptiom of Recurvaria pinella, sp. nov.
of the genus Cosmopteryx Hubner. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1463, June 4, 1906, pp. 707-713. Tineid mothsfrom southern Texas, with descriptions of new species. PROC Us Ss NGL. | ALS: = XRG, INO: June 4, 1906, pp. 721-736, figs. 1-10. CAUDELL, ANDREW Netson. The custidee and Gryllide (katydids
1465,
Loand
News, xvi, Mar., 1906, pp. 96-99. |
| Coquituerr, D. W.
crickets) collected by W.T. Foster in |
Paraguay. ° Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1450, Apr. 21, 1906, pp. 235-244. CHITTENDEN, FranK H. The larger canna leaf-roller (Calpodes ethlius Cram. ).
Bull. Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 54, 1905, pp. 54-58. 1 fig. Reference to recent damage in the South, with description of all stages, bibliography, and distribution.
—— The pond-lily leaf-beetle (Galeru-
cella nymphaeae Linn. ). Bull. Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 54, 1905, pp. 58-60. 1 fig.
A popular account, with special reference | to an unusual occurrence in the District of |
Columbia in August, 1904, on beans and willow; distribution and bibliography.
Insect enemies of the pecan. The Nut Grower, Iv, Jan., Feb., Mar., 1906, pp. 106-109, pp. 117-120, pp. 137-142. Short accounts of the principal insects
which affect the pecanin the United States. | The principal species mentioned are: Pro| teopteryx deludana, Acrobasis nebulella, Coleo|
phoracaryaefoliella, Hyphantria cunea, Datana integerrima, Datana angusii, Catocala sp., Sesia scitula, Chrysobothris femorata, Amphicerus bicaudatus, Oncideres texana, Oncideres
2 Se PE ora cs rel
Synoptic list of | Carrrenpren, Frank H.—Continued.
| cingulata, Elaphidion villosum, Balaninus car| yae, Conotrachelus juglandis, Enarmonia caryana, Lachnosterna hirticula, Eutermes flavipes,
Pulvinaria innumerabilis, and Phylloxera sp.
New species of Sphenophorus, with notes on described forms. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash. vit, (author’s extras issued March 6) 1906, pp. 166-182, figs. 19, 20.
Descriptions of Sphenophorus marinus, n. sp., graminis, n. sp., subopacus, Nn. sp., monterensis, 1. Sp., diversus, nN. sp., nevadensis, n. sp., fallii, n. sp., subulatus, n. sp., destructor, n.sp., sublaevis, n. sp., soltauii, n. sp., blanch-
| ardi, n. sp., striatipennis, n.sp., with notes on
parvulus, minimus, marinus, callosa (sculptilis Horn), cariosus (sculptilis Uhler), zeae, aequalis, and ochreus.
An instance of the complete para-
| sitism of the imported cabbage worm. — A review of the American moths |
Bull. Bur. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric., No. 54, p. 79. A note of the complete destruction in August and September, 1904, of Pieris rapx by Apanteles glomeratus.
and Titus, E. 8. G. The dock false-worm (Taxonus nigrisoma Nort. ).
Bull. Bur. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric., No. 54, 1905, pp. 40-48. 1 fig.
A new subapterous tipulid from New Mexico.
Can. Ent., XX XVII, Oct., 1905, p. 347. Describes Limnophila? aspidoptera, n. sp.
A new dexiid parasite of a Cuban beetle. Can. Ent., XXXVII, Oct., 1905, p. 362. Describes Thelairodes ischyri, n. sp., which was bred from IJschyrus flavitarsis by Dr. George Dimmock. On the breaking up of the old genus Culex. Science (new series), Xx1tI, No. 582, Feb. 23, 1906, pp. 313-314. Gives a synoptic table of 50ld and 2 new genera, based on the eggs, larve, and adults. Anew tabanid related to punctifer. Ent. News, Xvi, Feb., 1906, p. 48. Describes Tabanus subniger, 1. sp. Five new Culicidze from the West Indies. Can. Ent. XXXVI, Feb., 1906, pp. 60-62. Describes Stegomyia mediovittata, S. busckii, Taeniorhynchus palliatus, Melanoconion urichii, and Verrallina insolita.
New Culicids from the West Indies and Central America. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vil, Mar., 1906,
pp. 182-186. Three new genera and 9 new species are
described,

<<<Page: 123>>>

Coqurtuert, D. W. A new Culex near curriel. Ent. News, Xvit, Apr., 1906, p. 109. Describes Culex lativittatus, n. sp. A classification of the mosquitoes of North and Middle America. Tech. Series, Bur. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric., No. 11, Apr., 1906, pp. 31.
A brief history of the family and subfamilies, and synoptic tables for the identification of the subfamilies, genera, and most of the species.
Dyar, Harrison G. A descriptive list of a collection of early stages of Japanese Lepidoptera.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii1, No. 1412,
July 8, 1905, pp. 937-956, figs. 1-23.
New genera of South American moths.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1419, Oct.
3, 1905, pp. 173-178.
A list of American cochlidian moths, with descriptions of new genera and species.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1423, Oct.
12, 1905, pp. 359-396.
On the classification of the Culicidee.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vit, 1905, pp. 188 191.
A review of the Hesperiidz of |
the United States. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X111, 1905, pp. 111142. Illustrations of the abdominal
appendages of certain mosquitoes. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X111, 1905, pp. 185188.
Anew Oncocnemis from Nevada. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1905, p. 211. Descriptions of new American
moths.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X1v, 1906, p. 30.
The life history of a cochilidian moth, Adoneta bicaudata Dyar.
Biological studies by the pupils of William
Thompson Sedgwick, June, 1906, pp. 1119.
The North American Nymphulinze
and Scopariinze. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., xtv, 1906, pp. 77107.
Description of four new species of North American moths.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X1v, 1906, pp. 107, 108.
Dyar, Harrison G. A note on the
Euchoeca comptaria muddle. Can. Ent., XXX VII, 1906, p. 110.
HeremMann, O. A newgenusand species of the hemipterous family Ceratocombidee.
Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash., v11, 1906, No. 4, pp. 192-194, fig. 1.
Account of a new tingitid. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V11I, 1906, pp. 10-13, figs. 1-4, Nos. 1, 2. Describes adult and nymphs of Corythuca pergandei,
Howarp, Letanp O. Concerning the geographic distribution of the yellowfever mosquito.
Public Health Records, xvi11, No. 46 , Washington, Oct. 2, 1905.
A complete account of the geographic distribution of Stegomyia calopus ( fasciata.)
House flies. Cire. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 71, Mar. 29, 1906, 9 pp., 8 figures. A popular consideration of flies frequenting houses, with remedies, and some reference to their disease-bearing proclivities.
An interesting new genus and species of Encyrtidee. Ent. News, xv11, Apr., 1906, pp. 121, 122. Description of Comperiella, n. g., bifasciata n. sp., from China, introduced into California by George Compere.
— The gypsy and brown-tail moths
and their European parasites. Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agric., 1905 (June 22, 1906), pp. 128-188, pls. 2, figs. 8.
A brief account of the American ocecurrences of Porthetria dispar and Euproctis chrysorrhoea, with a consideration of their European parasites and the attempts of the Department of Agriculture to introduce and establish them in New England.
KuaGes, Epwarp A. On the syntomid moths of southern Venezuela collected in 1898-1900.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1434, Jan. 31, 1906, pp. 531-552.
MacGiIbiivray, ALEXANDER Dyer. A study of the wings of the Tenthredinoidea, a superfamily of Hymenoptera.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1488, Feb. 10, 1906, pp. 569-654, pls. XXI-XLIV.
Maruatr, C. L. The giant sugar-cane
borer (Castnia licus Fab. ).
Bull, Bur. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 54, 1905, pp. 71-95,

<<<Page: 124>>>

Rean, JAmMEs A. G. Notes on exotic forficulids or earwigs, with descriptions of new species.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1432, Dec. 2, 1905, pp. 501-516, figs. 1-9. Figures and describes many new species in the national collection.
—— Notes on the Orthoptera of Costa Rica, with descriptions of new species. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 790843. This paper treats of over 100 species of Orthoptera found in Costa Rica, 11 of which are described as new.
Notes on South American grasshoppers of the subfamily Acridinz (Acridide), with descriptions of new
genera and species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1453, May 9, 1906, pp. 371-391. Gives notes and bibliographies and describes many new species in the national collection.
Descriptions of three new species of katydids and a new genus of crickets
from Costa Rica. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxx, No. 1459, May 24, 1906, pp. 597-605. Figures of these new Orthoptera are given in the text, the types being in the national collection,
Scnaus, Witi1AM. Descriptions of new South American moths. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1420, Oct. 11, 1905, pp. 179-345. Descriptions of new South American moths. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1444, Apr. 2, 1906, pp. 85-141. Titus, E. S. G. (See under Frank H. Chittenden. )
WarREN, WILLIAM. American moths. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX1x, No. 1421, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 347-352. Descriptions of new genera and species of South American geometrid moths.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1456, May 11, 1906, pp. 399-557.
Some new South
CusHMAN, JosEPH A. Marine Ostracoda of Vineyard Sound and adjacent waters. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Xxx, No. 10, Feb., 1906, pp. 359-385, pls. XXVII-
CusHMAN, JosEpH A.—Continued.
Based largely on material dredged by the Bureau of Fisheries steamers Fish Hawk and Phalarope. Three families, 11 genera, and 26 species are represented, of which 1 genus and 10 species are described as new.
DuerRDEN, J. E. On the habits and reactions of crabs bearing actinians in their claws.
Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 11, 1905, pt. 1, Apr. 1906, pp. 494-511, text figs. 72-76.
Based chiefly on studies made at the Hawaiian Islands, under the auspices of the Carnegie Institution, on Melia (correctly Lybia) tesselata and Polydectus cupulifer.
Hay, Witu1AM Perry. Instances of her-
maphroditism in crayfishes.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLVI, Quar. issue, III, part 11, No. 1593, Sept. 8, 1905, pp. 222-928, text fig. 27.
Reviews the literature on the subject and adds observations on certain specimens of Cambar us spinosus, C.propinquus, and C. affinis which show evidences of hermaphroditism.
Ratupun, Mary J. Fauna of New En-
land. V.—List of the Crustacea. Occasional Papers Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vu, July 20, 1905, pp. 1-117. This paper is the fifth in the series forming a catalogue of the animals of New England, and conformsto the general plan outlined for the series, the list including the accepted name (scientific and vernacular) for each species; reference to the original description with record of locality; reference to an authentie description and illustration; and habitat and occurrence. The list comprises 390 species.
Description of a new species of commensal crab.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905 (issued Aug. 2), pp. 371, 372.
Pinnotheres strombi, taken from Strombus pugilis at Clearwater Harbor, Florida, by Mr. H.S. Colton.
Based on a specimen in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia.
Les crabes d’eau douce (Potamonide).
Nouv. Arch. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, (4) vu, Dec., 1905, pp. 159-321, pls. XIII-X XII. This is the second part of the monograph which began in volume VI of the Archives. The descriptions are carried through the subfamilies Potamoninzand Pseudothelphusine, while the plates are completed in this number. Two hundred and ten species and subspecies are discussed, 39 of the species being new.

<<<Page: 125>>>

Ratusun, Mary J. The Brachyura and
Macrura of the Hawaiian Islands. Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1908, part 111, pp. 827-930, pls. I-XXIv. (Jan. 27, 1906.) Based chiefly on collections made by the U. S. Fish Commission during several seasons. Three hundred and fourteen species are enumerated. Two genera, 76 species, and 4 subspecies are described as new.
Description of a new crab from
Dominica, West Indies. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1X, June 4, 1906, pawl:
Pseudorhombila octodentata, a species allied to the type species of the genus P. quadridentata (Latreille). One specimen was collected by Mr. A. Hyatt Verrill.
Les crabes d’eau douce (Potamonidee ). Nouv. Arch. Mus. Hist. Nat., Paris, (4) v1, June 26, 1906, pp. 33-122.
The third and concluding part of the monograph begun in volume vi of the Archives. Deals with the subfamilies Trichodactyline, Gecarcinucine, and Deckeniins. There are 34 species and subspecies, 9 of which are described asnew. At the close of the paperare given lists of nomina nuda, indeterminable species, and species wrongly assigned to the Potamonide, also a bibliography brought down to January 1, 1906, and an index.
Ricwarpson, Harrier. Reports on the scientific results of the expedition to the eastern tropical Pacific, in charge of Alexander Agassiz, by the U.S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, from October, 1904, to March, 1905, Lieut. Commander L. M. Garrett, U.S. Navy, commanding. 11.—Description of a new genus of Isopods, typical of a peculiar family.
Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool , Xuvi, No. 6, July,
1905, pp. 105, 106, 1 pl.
Genus Colypurus (type C. agassizii sp. nov.) and family Colypuride. Incidentally, a new family, Rhabdochiride, is made for an allied form, Rhabdocherus incertus Giard and Bonner,
Description of a new species of Livoneca from the coast of Panama.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1480, Dec.
2, 1905, pp. 445, 446, text fig. 1.
The new species, Livoneca convexa, was collected by Dr. W. L. Jones, and the type is owned by the University of Pennsylvania.
A monograph | on the | Isopods of North America | By | Harriet Richardson | Collaborator, Division of Marine Invertebrates | | Washington | Government Printing Office | 1905 |
RicHarpson, HArrtreT—Continued. Bull. U.S. Nat. Mus., No. 54, Dec. 19, 1905, pp. i-liii, 1-727, text figs. 740.
All the species of North America are described and figured. Twenty-nine families, 128 genera, 369 species, and 1 subspecies are represented. Of these, 9genera and 12species are described as new.
Sur les isopodes de l’expédition Frangaise Antarctique. Bull. Mus. Hist. Nat.,
No. 4, pp. 187, 188. Preliminary account of the isopods collected in the Antarctic regions by Mr. Jean Charcot. Thirteen species (5 new) and 4 new genera
are noted.
Paris, 1906 (June),
Cor, WesLtey R. Nemerteans of the Hawaiian Islands collected by the steamer
Albatross in 1902. Bull. U. 8. Fish Com. for 1908, pt. 11, pp. 975-986, pl. I. (Mar. 14, 1906.)
Three species were collected, of which two are new to science, Taeniosoma univittatum and T. cingulatum; the third, a species of Drepanophorus, is represented by a proboscis only. t
FisHER, WALTER K. The starfishes of
the Hawaiian Islands. Bull. U.S. Fish Com. for 1908, part 11, pp. 987-1130. (June 30, 1906.)
The collection upon which the report is based numbers nearly 1,650 specimens and includes 60 species, of which 52 are new to science, and 5 are for the first time recorded from the Hawaiian Islands; 1 species only that had been previously reported from the region was taken by the Albatross.
On the generic name Stolasterias, Sladen. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (7), XVI, pp. 574-576. (June, 1906.)
Determines that Polyasterias Perrier 1894 is a synonym of Stolasterias Sladen 1889, and that Stolasterias Perrier 1894, nec Sladen, isa synonym of Marthasterias Jullien, 1878.
GOLDBERGER, JOSEPH. (See under Ch. Wardell Stiles.)
HASSALL, ALBERT, ell Stiles. )
Kororp, CHARLES ATwoop. Reports on the scientific results of the expedition to the eastern tropical Pacific, in charge of Alexander Agassiz, by the U.S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, from October, 1904, to March, 1905, Lieut. Commander L. M. Garrett, U.S. Navy, commanding. 11.—Craspedotella, a new genus of the Cystoflagellata, an example of convergence.
(See under Ch. Ward

<<<Page: 126>>>

Korom, CHartes ATwoop—Continued. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Xvi, No. 9, Sept., 1905, pp. 163-165, 1 pl.
Based on a new species, Craspedotella pileolus, found in the plankton midway between the Galapagos Islands and Manga Reva, and bearing a striking resemblance in form toa craspedote medusa.
Lryton, Epwin. Notes on cestode cysts, Taenia chamissonii, new species, from a porpoise.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1410, July 14, 1905, pp. 819-822, pl. xxxv.
Lupwie, Huserr. | Memoirs of the Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoology. | At Harvard College. | Vol. xxxir. | — | Reports on an exploration off the west coast of Mexico, | Central and South America, and off the Galapagos Islands, | in charge of Alexander Agassiz, by the U. S. Fish Commis| sion Steamer ‘‘Albatross,’’ during 1891, Lieut. Commander | Z. L. Tanner, U.S. N., commanding. | xxxv. |
Reports on the scientific results of the expedition to the | Tropical Pacific, in charge of Alexander Agassiz, on the
| U.S. Fish Commission Steamer ‘A]lbatross,*’ from August, 1899, | to March, 1900, Commander Jefferson F. Moser, U. S. N., com| manding. | vm. | Asteroidea. | By Hubert Ludwig. | With thirty-five plates | and a chart of the route. | | Cambridge, U. 8. A.:
| Printed for the Museum. | | July,
1905. | pp. i-xil, 1-292, pls. 1-35, 1 chart.
The material represents 16 families, 38 genera, 67 species, and 2 varieties, of which 5 genera, 56 species, and 2 varieties are new. The descriptions are followed by lists of species taken at each dredging station and in each bathymetrical area, and a list of the literature involved.
McCienpon, J. F. The Myzostomes of
the Albatross expedition to Japan. Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., X x11, May 26, 1906, pp. 119-130, pls. XV-XVII.
The material was mostly taken from erinoids and ophiurans dredged by the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross off the eastern coast of Japan in the spring of 1900, and partly collected at Pacific Grove, Cal., by Dr. Bashford Dean. Ten species, of which 8 are new, and 1 new variety are described.
Mayer, ALFRED GOLDSBOROUGH. Medusxe of the Hawaiian Islands collected by the steamer Albatross in 1962.
Bull. U.S. Fish Com. for 1903, part 11, pp. 1181-1143, pls. 1-111. (June 30, 1906.) Seven species are described, 2 of which are new, and the occurrence of several others is briefly noted.
Nurrina, CHARLES CLEVELAND. Hydroids of the Hawaiian Islands collected by
the steamer Albatross in 1902. Bull. U.S. Fish Com. for 1908, part 11, pp. 931-959, pl. I-x11T. (Dee. 28, 1905.)
Of the 49 species collected 29 are new and are very distinct from previously known forms. Two of them form the types of new genera and families, viz: Hydrodendrium gorgonoides, type of Hydrodendride, and
Balea mirabilis, type of Tubidendride. Stevenson, Earte C. (See under Ch.
Wardell Stiles. )
Stites, CH. Warpett. Note sur un protozoaire (Ichthyophthirius multifiliis) parasite des poissons conservés dans les aquariums de 1|’exposition universelle de Chicago.
Bull. Soc. Cent. @ Aquic. de France, Par., vy. 6, 2. 8. (7-9), July-Aug.-Sept., 1905, pp. 165-167.
— The international code of zoological nomenclature as applied to medi-
cine. Bull. Hyg. Lab. U.S. Pub. Health and Mar. Hosp. Serv., No, 24, Sept., 1905, pp. 1-50.
New species of parasite in man.
Journ. Am, Med, Assoc., XLVI, No. 16, Apr. 21, 1906, p. 1232.
New York Med. Journ., LXxxtt, No. 16, Apr. 21, 1906, pp. 889, 840.
A plan to insure the establishment
of type species of genera. Science (new series), XXIII, No. 598, June 15, 1906, pp. 913-915.
and GOLDBERGER, JOSEPH. A young stage of the American hookworm, Necator americanus (Stiles, 1902) eight to twelve days after skin infection in rabbits and dogs.
Am. Med., Phila., v. 11 (2), Jan. 18, 1906,
pp. 63-65, figs. 1-6.
and Hassauut, ALBERT. The determination of generic types and a list of roundworm genera, with their orig-
inal and type species. Bull. Bureaw Animal Indust., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 79, 1905, pp. 1-150.

<<<Page: 127>>>

Stites, Ca. WaArDELL, and STEVENSON, EarteC. Thesynonymy of Taenia, T. crassicollis, T. marginata, T. serialis, T.
serrata, T. coenurus, and Echinococcus. |
Bull. Bureau Animal Indust., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 80, 1905, pp. 1-14.
TREADWELL, Aaron L. .Polychzetous annelids of the Hawaiian Islands, col-
lected by the steamer Albatross in 1902. Bull. U.S. Fish Com. for 1903, part 111, pp. 1145-1181. (June 30, 1906.)
The report includes, also, a specimen from Samoa and a number of specimens from the coast of California, In all, 79 species are discussed, of which 27 are new to science.
VauGHAN, T. WAYLAND. Three new Fungize, with a description of a specimen of Fungia granulosa Klunzinger and a note on a specimen of Fungia
concinna Verrill. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1473, June 20, 1906, pp. 827-832, pls. LX VII-LXXIVv.
One of the new species, /. japonica, is fossil, and the other two, /. samboangensis and F. madagascarensis, are recent. The specimen of F. granulosa was collected by the U. S. Exploring Expedition; that of F. concinna at Papeete by the Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross.
A new species of Coenocyathus from California and the Brazilian
astrangid Corals.
PROC Un Seely ii.) MALS XekoXe NO SATs June 27, 1906, pp. 847-850, pls. LX xXvIILXXVIII. :
The new species of Cenocyathus, C. bowersi, is from San Miguel Island, California, donated by Dr. Stephen Bowers. Two new species of Brazilian Astrangia are described, A. brasiliensis and A. rathbuni, both collected by Dr. Richard Rathbun, while on the Geological Commission of Brazil, 1875-1877.
GREENE, Enwarp Ler. Three new Heu-
cheras. Leaflets, 1, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 111, 112. H. pachypoda from California, H. versicolor and leptomeria from New Mexico.
A proposed new genus Anotites. Leaflets, 1, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 97-104. The-type of the genus is what has been known as Silene menziesii. Eighteen species are described, sixteen of which are new.
Some New England Persicarias. Leaflets 1, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 105-110. Notes on P. fluitans, coccinea, nove-anglix, and hartwrightii, P. andrewsii is described as new.
genus Rhus. Leaflets, 1, Noy. 24, 1905, pp. 114-144.
The genus Toxicodendron is reinstated, with 33 species, all from the United States and Mexico, except the Japanese T. occidentale. This and 23 others are described as new. The genus Schmailtzia is also restored, with 41 species (chiefly of the far western and southwestern United States and Mexico), 38 of which are described as new. With Rhus microphylla Engelm, asits type, the new genus Rhoeidium is proposed. Of the eight species, all of the arid regions along the Mexican boundary, six are defined as new.
Segregates of the
——— On so-called Silene menziesii. Ottawa Naturalist, x1x, Dee. 9, 1905, pp. 163-166. A recension of Anotites as occurring in British America. One new species, A. picta, is deseribed.
New plants from southwestern
mountains. Leaflets, 1, Dee. 23, 1905, pp. 145-154. Descriptions of 31 species, in 23 genera.
New species of Chaptalia. Leaflets, 1, Dec. 23, 1905, p. 158. C. alsophila of New Mexico and C. confinis of Arizona.
A proposed new genus Callisteris. Leaflets, 1, Dec. 23, 1905, pp. 159-160. Genus of Polemoniacex, with Cautua ag_ gregata its type. Eight of the 10 species are defined as new.
A new northern Antennaria. Ottawa Naturalist, X1x, Jan. 9, 1906, p. 197. A. athabascensis, from Fort Chippewayan, Athabasca.
—— New species of Pentstemon. Leaflets, 1, Jan. 23, 1906, pp. 161-167. Twenty-one species, all from between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacifie coast, are described.
New species of Isocoma. Leaflets, 1, Jan. 23, 1906, pp. 169-172. Eleven new specific types are named and described. They are mostly from California, although several are from adjacent sections of Arizona.
New asteraceous genera. Leaflets, 1, Jan. 23, 1906, p. 173. Tumionella, based on Aplopappus monactis, Gray; Hesperodoria, founded on a new type of the Composite from Utah.
Segregates from Sieversia. Leaflets, 1, Jan. 30, 1906, pp. 174-179.
It is held that there is no Sreversia in North America. Plants that have been so referred are here distributed between two genera, both indicated as new: Acomastylis based on S. rossii, with five species, one of them new, Erythrocoma, with S. triflora for its type, has 14 species, 12 of them new.

<<<Page: 128>>>

GREENE, Epwarp Ler. Various new
species. Leaflets, 1, Jan. 30, 1906, pp. 180, 181. Two new members of the genus Petasites, three in Polygonatum, one in Euthamia.
Mutations in Viola. Leaflets, 1, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 182-187. Nine different species or mutates discussed, two of them described as new.
New species of Mimulus. Leaflets, 1, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 189, 190. Four species are from California and one from Arizona.
— A further study of Chaptalia. Leaflets, 1, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 191-196. Diagnosis of 18 new species of the genus, Mexican, West Indian, Central and South American. The Mutisiaceze to which Chaptalia belongs is indicated as a distinct natural family.
Icianthus and Sprengeria. Leaflets, 1, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 197-199. Two proposed new genera of Crucifere.
New or noteworthy species. Leaflets, 1, Feb. 24, 1906, pp. 199, 200.
Certain malvaceous types. Leaflets, 1, Apr. 10, 1906, pp. 205-208. Sphexralcea and Malvastrum discussed taxonomically; Idiamna, Malacothamnus, Eremalche, and Disella proposed.
New plants from New Mexico. Leaflets, 1, June 5, 1906, pp. 211-213. Eight new phanerogams, belonging to six different genera.
New species of Viola. Leaflets, 1, June 16, 1906, pp. 214-218. Five new species and ten new varieties of Viola, all of eastern North America.
House, H. D. Rose. )
Maxon, WiiitraAm R. A new cloak fern
from Mexico. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Sept. 2, 1905, pp. 205, 206. Describes Notholena bryopoda n. sp., from Mexico, based on Pringle, No. 8802.
(See under Joseph N.
— — A new fern from Porto Rico. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvu11, Oct. 17,1905, pp. 215, 216. Describes Polystichum krugii n. sp., closely related to the Jamaican P. rhizophyllum (Sw.) Presl.
A new Lycopodium from Guate-
mala. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv111, Dec. 9, 1905, pp. 231, 232. Describes Lycopodium dichaeoides n. sp., allied to the West Indian L. aqualupianum Spring.
Maxon, WittrAM R.A new Botrychium from Alabama. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X1x, Feb. 26, 1906, pp. 23, 24. Botrychium alabamense, & new member of the group of B. ternatum (Thunb.) Sw., is described from Alabama.
Parnter, Josepu H. N. Rose. )
(See under Joseph
PIPER, CHARLES V. cies of Festuca. Contrib. U.S. Nat. Herb., x, pt. 1, Mar. 30, 1906, pp. i-vi, 1-48, pls. 1-15.
North American spé-
Rosr, JosepH N. Mexican plants. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1427, Sept.
30, 1905, pp. 437-439.
Five new species of
Twonewumbelliferous plants from
the coastal plain of Georgia. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxX1x, No. 1428, Oct.
5, 1905, pp. 441-442, pl. m1.
and Housr, H. D. Descriptions of three Mexican violets. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1429, Oct. 6, 1905, pp. 443-444, pl. rv.
and Painter, JoseEpH H. Some Mexican species of Cracca, Parosela, and Meibomia. Botan. Gazette, XL, Aug., 1905, pp. 143-146, pl. 1. Contains 3 new species and several new names,
SmitH, JoHN DonneELL. Undescribed plants from Guatemala and other Cen-
tral American republics. Botan. Gazette, XL, July, 1905, pp. 1-11, pl. t.
Merritt, Georce P.
Am. Journ. Sci., XX1I, May, 1906, pp. 355-
360.
Contains a description of the phenomena of the fall, and the mineral and chemical nature of a stony meteorite which fell at Modoc, Kans., September 2, 1905.

<<<Page: 129>>>

Tassin, W1iRT.
Merritt, GeorGe P. The division of applied geology in the U. 8. National
Museum. ; Trans. Am. Inst. Mining Engineers. Bimonthly Bulletin No. 4, July, 1905, pp. 931-937. -
Contains remarks descriptive of the collections, delivered at a meeting of the American Institute of Mining Engineers in the lecture hall of the Museum, May, 1905.
— Contributions to the history of
American geology. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1904 (1906), pp. 189-733, pls. I-XXXvVII,
text figs. 1-141.
The work traces the history and gradual development of geology in America from 1785 to the organization of the present U.S. Geological Survey, in 1880.
See under George P. Merrill.
ARNOLD, RaupH. The Tertiary and Qua-
ternary pectens of California. Professional Paper U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 47, Series C, Systematic Geology and Paleontology No. 76, 1906, pp. 1-264, pls. I-LIII.
This paper consists of an introduction and parts I and II.
Part I discusses the Tertiary and Pleistocene formations of California, and presents a post-Cretaceous geologic column and a correlation table. The various formations recognized are the Martinez and the Tejon in the Eocene; the San Lorenzo in the Oligocene; the Vaqueros sandstone; the Monterey shale and the San Pablo formation in the Miocene; the Purisima and the Merced in the Pliocene; the San Pedroin the Pleistocene. Each of these formations is treated thus: Type locality, definition of the formation, localities, Pecten fauna, and a list of fossils of whatever class. Part 1 closes with a tabular presentation of the geologic range of the California pectens, both recent and fossil, and from recent time back through the Eocene, and a summary showing the number of species and varieties found in the Eocene, Oligocene, etc., the number restricted to each and the number found transitional from one formation into its successor or successors. Part 1 contains a synopsis and descriptions of subgenera and species.
The following species and varieties are deseribed and figured as new:
From the Eocene: Pecten ( Chlamys) calkini, landesi proavus.
From the Oligocene: Pecten (Pecten) sanctecruzensis, P. ( Chlamys) branneri, P. (Propeamusium) clallamensis, waylandi.
From the Miocene: P. ( Pecten) carrizoensis, keept, P. (Patinopecten) oweni, P. (Chlamys) hamlini, nutteri, sespeensis and var. hydei, P.
Baae, Rurus M.
ARNOLD, RatpH—Continued.
(Lyropecten) bowersi, crassicardo Con., var. hamiltoni, estrellanus Con., var. cataline, and var. terminus, miguelensis, perrini, vaughani, P. (Plagioctenium) andersoni, and var. barkerianus, cerrosensis Gabb, var. ? mendenhalli eldridgei, neahensis, P. (Pseudamusium) lompicoensis, P. (Propeamusium) standfordensis, P. (Amusium) lompoensis.
From the Pliocene: P. (Pecten) auburyi, coalingaensis, lecontei, merriami, vogdesi, P. (Patinopecten) healeyi, purisimaensis, turneri, P. (Chlamys) bartschi, bellilamellatus, lawsoni, washburnei, wattsi, and var. morani, P. (Lyropecten) ashleyi, P. (Plagiocteniuwm) cooperi, P. (Propeamusium) riversi.
From the Pleistocene: P. (Chlamys) latiauritus Gabb, var. cerritensis, and var. delosi.
Recent: P. (Chlamys) hastatus Sby., var. albidus Dall, P. (Pseudamusium) randolphi Dall, var. tillamookensis.
The paper closes with a bibliography of literature bearing directly or indirectly upon the pectens of California.
Miocene foraminifera from the Monterey shale of California, with a few species from the Tejon formation.
Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv., No. 268, 1905, pp. 1-78, pls. I-x1.
Sixty-six species of foraminifera are described and illustrated in this bulletin. These descriptions are preceded by a discussion of the geology of the region by Prof. J. C. Branner.
Basster, Ray 8S. Portland cement re-
sources of Virginia. Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv., No. 243, 1905, pp. 312-325.
Describes the stratigraphy and gives analyses of the Portland cement rocks of Virginia. The stratigraphic and paleontologic investigations are based upon Museum material.
Cement materials of the valley of Virginia. Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv., No. 260, 1905, pp. 531-544.
In this article the stratigraphy, paleontology, and economic value of the various cement horizons in the Paleozoie rocks of the valley of Virginia are described. Analyses, maps, and details of localities are also given.
— A study of the James types of Or-
dovician and Silurian Bryozoa.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XXX, No. 1442, April 2, 1906, pp. 1-66, pls. I-VI.
This paper presents (1) an introduction stating the necessity for a redescription of these types, (2) a bibliography of the James publications, (3) the laws of nomenclature applicable to the species under discussion, (4) a Classification of the Ordovician strata in the
_ vicinity of Cincinnati, Ohio, and (5) the de-
ba’ Ao) ad

<<<Page: 130>>>

BassLer, Ray §8.—Continued. scription of the species in alphabetical order. Under the last heading the types of the many species of bryozoans described by Messrs. U. P. and J. F. James as corals, bryozoans, or sponges, are discussed under 73 headings and are illustrated on 7 plates.
In the discussion of Ordovician strata the following new divisions are proposed: One group, Covington, three formations, Bromley, Fairview, and McMillan, and three members, Economy, Southgate, and McMicken.
(See also under Charles Schuchert and E. O. Ulrich. )
Bipsins, ARTHUR. Ward.)
CraGin, Francis WHITTEMORE. Paleontology of the Malone Jurassic forma-
tion of Texas. : Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 266, 1905, pp. 1-22, 34-172, pls. I-X XIX.
Describes and figures an Upper Jurassic invertebrate fauna occurring in the neighborhood of Sierra Blanca, El Paso County, Tex. The fauna, which is varied, appears to be somewhat closely related to the Jurassic | faunas in San Luis Potosiand Oaxaca, Mexico. The collections here described are the property of the National Museum.
Datit, WittiAM Heatey. The Pelecypoda of the Miocene of Maryland. Vanderbilt University Quarterly, v1, No. 1, Jan., 1906, pp. 70, 71.
Review of work, partly on Museum material, by L. C. Glenn.
(See also under Charles Schuchert. )
(See under Lester F.
FonrTAINE, WILLIAM M. ter F. Ward. )
Gip_Ley, JAMes W. A fossil raccoon from a California Pleistocene cave deposit. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxX1xX, No. 1485, Feb. 2. 1906, pp. 553, 654, pl. x1r. Procyon simus, nN. sp., is here described and figured. A new ruminant from the Pleistocene of New Mexico. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1447, Apr. 4, 1906, pp. 165-167; text figs., 1-3. A new genus and species of the subfamily Ovibovine is here described under the name Liops zuniensis. Liops being preoccupied, | Mr. Gidley later proposed tne term Lissops as a substitute.
(See also under William Diller Matthew. )
GiLtL, THEODORE. An interesting Cretaceous chimeeroid egg case. Science (new series), XXII, No. 567, Nov. | 10, 1905, pp. 601, 602. The first known American Chimeroid egg case 1s noticed. The fossil is in the U. 8.
(See under Les|
GILL, THEODORE—Continued.
National Museum and was obtained from ““massive sandstone’ a few miles west of Laramie, Wyo.; its form most resembles that of the living Rhinochimxzra. Comments are made on the other known Mesozoic chimeroid ovicapsules and the relations indicated to modern types. The names archidome and urodome are also introduced for different regions of the egg case.
GILMORE, CHARLES W. The mounted
skeleton of Triceratops prorsus. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1x, No. 1426, Oct. 4, 1905, pp. 4383-435, pls. 1, I. Gives a brief description of the mounted skeleton in the National Museum.
Notes on the osteology of Baptano-
don, with a description of a new species. Memoirs Carnegie Museum, 11, No. 9, Feb. 6, 1906, pp. 325-337, pls. XXXVI-XXXVIII, text figs. 1-13. Gives additional information regarding the skeletal structure of Baptanodon. Describes and figures Baptanodon robustus, n. sp.
Notes on some recent additions to the e@xhibition series of vertebrate
fossils. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1460, May 31, 1906, pp. 607-611, pls. XXX-XXXvV.
Illustrates and briefly describes the skeletons of Rhamphorhynchus gemmingi and Mammut americanum. Enumerates for the first time the elements comprising the type specimen of Triceratops calicornis. Two views are given, together with brief notes on the type
skull of Diceratops hatchert.
HanpuirscH, Anton. A_ new blattoid from the Cretaceous formation of North
America. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix, No. 1489, Mar. 7, 1906, pp. 655, 686, 1 text fig. Describesand figures new genus and species, Stantonia cretacea. The type specimen is in the Nationa! Museum collection.
Revision of American Paleozoic
insects. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxix, No. 1441, Mar. 7, 1906, pp. 661-820, text figs. 1-109.
This paper treats of all the known American Paleozoic insects and is therefore monographical in its scope. The systematic revision of American Paleozoic insects proper is preceded by an introduction by Prot. Charles Schuchert and a discussion of the geological position of the principal insectbearing localities of the United States by Dr. David White.
One hundred and three new genera and 138 new species are described by Doctor Handlirsech. With the exception of a tew species, ail of the material llustrated 1s in the collections ot tne National Museum.

<<<Page: 131>>>

Harcuer, J. B. (See under T. W. Stan-
ton. )
KNow.ton, FRANK HALL.
of the Judith River beds. Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv., No. 257, 1905, pp. 129-168, pls. XIV-XIX.
The specimens described by Mr. Knowlton are contained in the Museum collections, haying been transferred from the U.S. Geological Survey. The paper enumerates and describes 28 forms, 16 of which arenew and 5 not specifically described. From his review of these forms he states that the flora of the Judith River beds, so far as now known, shows very little affinity with the true Laramie or with the Fort Union, but that it does exhibit an undoubted relationship with that of the Dakota Group, or with the Cenomanian and Senonian of the Old World; that is, with the lower and middle portions of the Upper Cretaceous.
(See also under T. W. Stanton and J. B. Hatcher.)
Martin, G. C. (See under T. W. Stanton. )
Fossil plants
Martrnew, WitriAmM Ditter. The osteology of Sinopa, a creodont mammal of the middle Eocene.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1449, May 11, 1906, pp. 203-253, pl. XVI.
Describes and figures a complete skeleton of a new species of Sinopa, Sinopa grangeri, and discusses the affinities and relationships of the genus Sinopa.
and GipLey, JAMEs W. New or little known mammals from the Mio-
cene of South Dakota.
Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., XX11, art. VIII, May 26, 1906, pp. 135-158, texts figs. 1-20. In part Iv of this article, under the subtitle Equide, Mr. Gidley describes and figures new material of Miocene horses from South Dakota and Nebraska, and proposes three new species, Protohippus sumus, Neohipparion
dolichops and Neohipparion niobrarense.
Osaoop, WiLtrrep H. Scaphoceros tyrrelli, an extinct ruminant from the Klondike gravels.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLVIII, Quar. issue, I11, pt. 11, No. 1589, July 1, 1905, pp. 173-185, pls. XXXVII-XLII. Describes and figures Scaphoceros tyrrelli, new genusand species. Thename Scaphoceros being preoccupied, Mr. Osgood later proposes Simbos as a substitute.
ScHUCHERT, CHARLES. A new American
pentremite. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, No. 1467, June 11, 1906, pp. 759, 760, figs. 1-3. Describesand figures Pentremites maccalliei, n. sp., from the Bangor limestone of Georgia.
ScHuCHERT, CHARLES. Catalogue of the type specimens of fossil invertebrates in the department of geology, U. S. National Museum. Assisted by W. H. Dau, T.W.Sranton, and R. 8. BAssuEr.
Bull. U.S. Nat. Mus., No. 53, pt. 1, Sept.
30, 1905, pp. 1-704.
This section of Bulletin 53 records the type material of invertebrate fossils in the U.S. National Museum. The introduction by Charles Schuchert contains a general discussion and classification of type specim2ns, with descriptions of the various kinds of primary and supplementary types and definitions of new type terms. Typical specimens, types of genera, marking of type material, and other more general subjects are discussed. The introduction closes with a list of the literature on type terms.
In the catalogue proper the types are recorded under the names as originally described. Subsequent descriptions of the same species under different names are referred to by cross references, while the present placement of the listed type, if different from the recorded reference, is likewise denoted.
Smiru, W.S. Tanarer. (See under E. O. Ulrich. )
Sranton, T. W. Stratigraphic notes on Malone Mountain and the surrounding
region near Sierra Blanca, Tex. Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 266, 1905, pp. 23-33.
Describes the Jurassic and Cretaceous rocks in a limited area lying between the Sierra Blanca, El Paso County, Tex., and the Rio Grande. The Jurassic rocks are those of the Malone formation yielding the fauna deseribed by F. W. Cragin, and the Cretaceous is mostly referable to the Comanche series, though in fact somewhat different from the usual facies.
The Morrison formation and its relations with the Comanche series and the Dakota formation.
Journ. Geology, X111, 1905, pp. 657-669.
It is shown that the Morrison formation, long known as the Atlantosaurus beds, passes beneath the marine beds of the Comanche series in southwestern Colorado and adjacent portionsof New Mexicoand Oklahoma. The attenuated marginal deposits of the Comanche series in this region have often been referred to the Dakota formation with which they are intimately associated, although there is some evidence of an unconformity between them.
— and Harcuer, J.B. Geology and paleontology of the Judith River beds, with a chapter on the fossil plants by
F. H. Knowlton. Bull. U. 8. Geol. Surv., No. 257, July, 1905, pp. 1-174, pls. I-xIx.

<<<Page: 132>>>

Sranton, T. W., and Harcuer, J. B.—
Continued.
Presents the evidence as to the stratigraphic position of the Judith River bedsin the Upper Cretaceous, showing they are considerably lower than the Laramie. The vertebrate fauna is discussed by Mr. Hatcher, and the invertebrate fauna by Mr. Stanton, with descriptions and figures of a few new or imperfectly known species. Mr. Knowlton deseribes and illustrates the flora. The collections discussed have been transferred to the National Museum.
and Martin, G. C. Mesozoic section on Cook Inlet and Alaska Penin-
sula. Bull. Geol. Soc. America, XV1, 1905, pp. 391-410, pls. 67-70. :
Describes the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous rocks of the region with detailed stratigraphie sections and notes on their distribution, correlation, and fossils. The great de-
* yelopment of the Middle and Upper Jurassic is especially noteworthy. Large collections of fossils which will become the property of the National Museum were obtained in connection with this field study.
(See also under Charles Schuchert. ) True, FrepertcK W. The first discovery of fossil seals in America.
Science (new series), XXII, No. 572, Dec. 15, 1905, p. 794.
Description of a new genus and species of fossil seal from the Miocene of Maryland.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1475, June 16, 1906, pp. 835-840, pls. LXXV-LXXVI. Proposes the new genus Leptophoca and deseribes and figures the new species Leptophocalenis.
Utricn, E. O.,and Basster, RayS. New American Paleozoic ostracoda. Notes and descriptions of Upper Carbonifer-
ous genera and species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, No. 1446, Apr. 4, 1906, pp. 149-164, pl. XI.
In this paper the writers continue their studies of fossil ostracods. Here the tamily Leperditellidz and the genus Paraparchiles are described as new, while descriptions and illustrations of new and previously known species of Beyrichia, Beyrichielia, Cythere, Kirkbya, Bairdia,and Cypridinia are given.
and Smita, W.S., Tangier. The lead, zinc, and fluorspar deposits of
western Kentucky. Professional Paper, U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 36, 1905, pp. 1-218, pls. I-xv.
In Part 1 of this paper the geology and general relations are discussed by E. O. Ulrich. Under the description of the stratigraphy of the region, five plates are given upon which
Utricnu, E. O., and Smira, W. S."TanGIER—Continued. the characteristic fossils of each formation are illustrated. The originals of these illustrations are all in the National Museum, being a part of the Ulrich collection. Watcort, CHARLES D. Cambrian faunas of China. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxX1x, No. 1415, Sept. 6, 1905, pp. 1-106.
This is a preliminary paper devoted to a description of the Cambrian fossils collected in China for Doctor Waleott by the members of the expedition of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. This fauna is published in advance of the illustrated report for use in the correlation of the various sections and discussion of the stratigraphy. Descriptions of 126 species are given of which 106 are trilobites, the remainder being distributed among the Foraminifera, Porifera, Brachiopoda, Pteropoda, Gastropoda, Cephalopoda, and Ostracoda.
Cambrian faunas of China. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xxx, No. 1458, May 23, 1906, pp. 563-595.
This preliminary paper (No. 2) is a continuation of the description of the fossils collected in China by the members of the expedition of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Twenty-six additional new species of trilobites are described as well as a number of brachiopods and gastropods, and the occurrence of the genus Coscinocyathus is noted.
Warp, Lester F. Status of the Mesozoic floras of the United States. Second paper by Lester F. Ward, with the collaboration of William M. Fontaine,
Arthur Bibbins, and G. R. Wieland. Monogr. U. S. Geol. Surv., XLVI, 1905, pt. I, text, pp. 1-616; pt. 11, pls. I-CXIx.
The specimens described in this work are almost entirely in possession of the U. 8. National Museum. The paper is divided into three parts: Part 1, The Triassic Flora (continued from the first paper in the 20th Ann, Rept., U.S. Geol. Sury., 1900), devoted to the older Mesozoie of Arizona; Part 11, The Jurassic Flora (continued trom the first paper in the Twentieth Annual Report of the U.S. Geological Survey, 1900), which describes the Jurassic flora of Douglas County, Oreg., and other plant-bearing beds in the Jurassic and Jurasso-Cretaceous transition beds from other localities in Oregon and from Alaska, California, and Montana, including also the Jurassic eycads from Wyoming and the Black Hills; and Part 111, The Cretaceous Flora, which includes the Lower Cretaceous flora of Queen Charlotte Islands, and the floras of the Shasta, Kootanie, Lakota, Trinity, and older Potomac tormations. The latter is deyoted to the older Potomac (James River, Rappahannock, Mount Vernon, and Aquia Creek beds) flora

<<<Page: 133>>>

Warp, Lester F.—Continued. of Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. From the study of these beds the conclusion is reached that the lower Potomac has a flora that is essentially Wealden, and also that the Wealden is Lower Cretaceous rather than Jurassic.
WIELAND, G. R. Ward. )
(See under Lester F.
AGassiz, ALEXANDER. Reports on the scientific results of the expedition to the eastern tropical Pacific, in charge of Alexander Agassiz; by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, from October, 1904, to March, 1905, Lieut. Commander L. M. Garrett, U.S. Navy, commanding. yv.—General re-
port of the expedition.
Memoirs Mus. Comp. Zool., XXX1II, 1906, pp. 1-xili, 1-75, 96 plates and 8 text figs. Contains accounts of the hydrography, character of the bottom, fauna of the different depths, temperatures, specific gravities, winds, records of stations occupied, and brief
descriptions of some of the islands visited.
Fuint, James M. A contribution to the oceanography | of the Pacifie | compiled trom data collected by the United | States steamer Nero while
Fuint, James M.—Continued. engaged in | the survey of a route for a | trans-Pacific cable | — | By | James M. Flint. | Medical Director, U. 8. Navy; Curator, Division of Medicine, U. S. National Museum | |
Washington | Government Printing Office | 1905. | Bull. U.S. Nat. Mus. No. 55, Dee. 26, 1905, pp. i-v, 1-62, pls. I-xIv.
The work of the Nero was from Honolulu to Midway Island, thence to Guam, thence to Luzon, andalso from Guam toJapan. The number of soundings made was 2,074. The author gives an account of the track, depths, gradients, temperatures, and character of the bottom, the deposits at a selected number of stations being recorded in detail.
Dati, WititamM Heatey. Obituary notice, Marcus Baker, 1849-1903. Bull. Philos. Soc. Wash., Xtv, Aug.,1905, pp. 277-285. A brief memoir of one who was for years a collaborator in the field work and collecting of the National Museum.
Obituary notice,
Powell, 1834-1902. Bull. Philos. Soc. Wash., Xtv, Aug., 1905, pp. 300-308. Brief memoir of a distinguished associate in the work of the Museum.
John Wesley

<<<Page: 134>>>



<<<Page: 135>>>



<<<Page: 136>>>



<<<Page: 137>>>



<<<Page: 138>>>



<<<Page: 139>>>

3 9088 014

<<<Page: 140>>>

y ‘ 4 ag a ry -— o ‘ i e a pt v ‘ ‘ we aw, i i . . Ce i : i oa) “ ia . . ‘ . . Se e { ? F % A : 4 = “e pot F ry “e > d e * & 2 aA 4 “ 4 , be= : ; : =, * i G * = x 4 — y : ae : 47 r z : he ! ms a 7 P 3 7 s ; a 3 z — here mae 7 , ¢, 4 e ; > 3 ' > 4 a i b — — y _— /— é F — rs . 5 7 7 . ¥ cs 4 + os iu " A al = Fane ’ » P : * : wi . . . 7 Seow . ” 5 = me ¥ s 4 ¢ me ad ’

<<<Page: 141>>>

a » ‘ ‘ _ : 3
* = s til ; a . " tow ¥ ‘ a = ; | : ’ ; a ‘ i a '. < 2 F ’

<<<Page: 142>>>



<<<Page: 143>>>



<<<Page: 144>>>

