<<<Page: 1>>>

(on oe qe Fe, 3 iF Ae Pe eo Oy rec eis wid . Py
eve peas aoe ie b Wwe 28 6 Oe ee ee |
me rp it ez ae iy Ds yO J
| acta actreet oie te 6 26 6 ee ee os : a i ae De A Be Pn eo i Ye Sh
Bad _— he WP jet de wy ek oe ee “at yey yr Pe Ye. Py a JM ¥, ’ ve a pe ie ay ne i, aah i
val > rs “ty : ie Ve oe
ie te Wee Re iP al te yes g° ce rh Baik i : cs oo Tet yer ae
‘Ws Te oe "ye I aot ; Bek 4 a 4 ai Ms a poe es ier
3d Jal ae ee # ie a eo tery
Pate: ae wee PY
a 1a I, 2 * ys a os 38 fe
_ . ue Oey a Wi let ee of ee me tN a
Sa: “jah | s % ame 2 st meg oe SiR ce “ wy ea weeded en ny ’ te ole, aha Age ake a
ae ys var pees B a
on a ee 2 A ein Z a §
As Too 0 Reed 9 J . ny v bf Had F ae
iy “De he ‘, nog oP rian 7 aY ope 7 8 Oe

<<<Page: 2>>>

TALE he Ve ik es wai hehe Melba ds dale Bathe ped bs bbea Da haticteibe sah she Bethe hae ssa): he AS totweta 0 nt : Vaathe Na ibe ll oB= Pah eit 9» of Pate at tat iitatys ettth rin iti aga be
i iNkibo Na Dahl Bose eid. a he Pha Be owl iy seid pehatehensacicoriene
«Does po pw te (oe
Wea ta 1} D0 be BED te NSN)
We Pht rig Ry Ay
eda + he porate seis ded (Wiha. Dnihall alt
" Be tst.t Bihene Ds ben, +A,
OB ie ow Aahiuaeedes
ee ue
Sod D0 0b he bs Rie bath “o> » Lh Boke de ty sapere Sea DM DolbribeSalde Bet)
*: Gs fo a Payee: Dai oD: BM Balla ha ha A Oh \; he Sis hese a tities aici
tn a Pa vei He bate ie sath (dale nih Ra the Bhs he athe Be doe halo ihe ibe. : etude hed ns da
DD iis ie Ne tadby Delete dele Da Da, baba a Deb bb
9s Deh Benes
ea 8 a At he
jhe! 4 Mitauet) He he ta ita hy chbtbeosiearhete rite
doe MaDe Sete Hela
HM igs hy fide pei wtese ies nes ronal
ts he Bilas:
f 33
re =
¥. giz.
) tae Sages io
es Ay fe
ae dade ene pas
234 be abe bdne get oe Se peed Ne Waites ie seseie
: * hea hitarasy
ahiaetece ? iy bales he
rd , jos,
J Sasa ee jh ded< dened ed
As ; rs a peasdruede: pseteet eset ais
4 dn drip be Das peiabous
a vs i ereiteepaniie ee aa Wa ear BRO wy . pale opine ap peers bay * ti nisis jagedeua en 1 bela eee 5 Pesohe ied sini stint Att Setar ¥e hah nes +8 8
ni Pye nd tat at 1
i y poli Sea am ie tb
oe tif gebeck ate H siti saat cea abet Phare tas yeibed
4 ya bal sista oat Pir phdibeber ay ALAN ah 8 B40 Oe de a a M St Aa pe ORR es re Peete tit eti
Bee hehin Duin neaiash i
ella
1s oo 0 yeh ee bags » te
pi Weert ik ‘a
1Osbr Ac heg
. aaah 4
eat ALU Vetnt
hehe, ship Lithesaiien dri Setiriatabed cose ge “ede : ii Able depute Weds 'y Welsda ney benena teas casts ita ‘ i arent READ aeey boty sauohdepeidinyepuiests’
Met thet b hysy nese ene
nnn Ob. wii , oi
edbbuet pi hdead i +f eet 7 ie
4 bia ito {ripeanyavsipusia ate ,
rlshefeasesnorreh tions he a ten aytfraiae toeittts
ee 8 FUP aw, byes hte. eon
teiteetttes eat ba Bat ts Hed eae tatSh rete
(dbsaby Beatle Anak pa de ba des i
(*4 iapeispeieneatie ree : ciate if a seine cut it idaatan haat etteate tyne ot pairs reiahartecres rete aerate isihage ele icapranetnneriaat
va iieee 7 se + it te je deen ieinuede 198 pie Mite . : » f vaclepeies cee tie Oi tg ey bone vinaton bate (in at phesee ehh egote bty
ad a
te | epeborgt grins be bay balbeda dediecs sada ane tsttetehetateres coat ch We bed8d6 (la bebe bead rf ys Salva pve ae) Awl roniXieueat ands ha dads ie Spe aa be len), ey ps ee Pale yeni baa vg Rae ea 0 Os OAE NS Dededeys neg ees pas ‘ 3, Dabsdabsinipabe ae a bean ave Serbia st Wicreasieneny Gs fet eset ‘ gone as Pale pra Ape ven ee Weapon eeleie eet oti bayaaabs: can eae hevedsine yarns mop ek ae iinet oeobnbace men eboyevassnsesies aeetieste hin sino aitts aise tienk, » eh 4 Ah edad io Ae vbyhengy sy seeiset bee ya ve heiwneneie 3 Cera) By bs Wo 0D ae Da by ors Ba abebsgedea re hes A Heea ed saa ge ate ¢ 08 dae cache whabeeavetitehctel ated erie st Wistar a balnl as ) i eebepeheys4 1 bs AD f hy 9 ee phachp if sete ; M4 Dake ebtartary-pee thre eret va dail ie pea delye ies ned todo eho Z treiten three eran pete Net art dregs pug eh she Mepehase Zag hig erhaaiet wah php ete (ite C vile dp an Babeneses CG a Pen hah pr ornr heh oh 1 at Sit Papereneste ba ie " MbeGeuntabsde chaos) ret 4 ‘ ‘seh : i nav pesehe eae anions ete be ‘i jane
pate’
A She rs erie a cite it ri rebebtatr ath
i bojsisinondioe Wb: ! sis Daiuindedeonndaostn fi weres ee ysiae)
pantaettat eote ts
Pre ths oe a WM Aa debs der) >s Wes the tbe
whe EY _
Ue st" bs a4 Unibet) Ye Waar ye Se bte
OST rs iy tits pf
Oe ibe gy ge nea bed r
dite rey) :
a a sori vf
ie he
maneenttaneget (HY
bs debe debs Bop aes He 61949 00 bead as DD) be eine ees
° , it aye mages yao waders {
OH OS Ware da lps s 9 neue el sangeet ete
Hibeielek bekghe gay yguayswrnautasvsenyadsyl byes a bhp A oan ene kuaae
HPP ER Magnet py h Ark ps AEs
sas Or Ori (neile ap Oe be
Dedede ed ( f ‘ ja gus Bete he A OH oe mhiphyst epghsingeuensde
reserep Ne Senate areata terete
Pas ert Wev70:) Liye ts) 14 weal ches pusher ry > todehg day yeePD be de dolpen, a " phyehie 4 4 io paes ror i: i ooh bat ih ie ™ eae bes 2 tote ya Tet Lehtenteh Ay i et pager fot heater ee it cette hehe at
Heelies debs tbe keg Paley tbe naa abe pines. seiaitets
Na Da sa aninnivn pvsnind st
oe ( Hf ‘ ved ; ; hele pli mesiings he patra he ay ashe ibaas Ba HA bby cholo cy Milan he PEMA edetirh yet par Lek re gett ne
‘ It “we vbeehed be ve Meturhe Weiree EL p wh rafal on sr ives sian ye san
? Src eoe

<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>



<<<Page: 5>>>



<<<Page: 6>>>

Metintd. Wlartle 28.1935

<<<Page: 7>>>

c. rei ét a i oe
; in
mt air Simhe
apatite as tye

<<<Page: 8>>>

SMITHSON ae

<<<Page: 9>>>

The Lord Baltimore Press

<<<Page: 10>>>

The annual Smithsonian exploration pamphlet serves as a preliminary announcement of the achievements of the year’s field expeditions. When the material and data collected have been studied and classified, the scientific results are published later in one of the technical series issued by the Institution. Most of the Smithsonian scientific investigations depend largely on field-work for their “ raw material ”’, so that upon the success of the expeditions herein briefly described hinges to some extent the satisfactory progress of the Institution’s research program in astrophysics, geology, biology, and anthropology.
The expeditions are financed in one of the following ways: Through Congressional appropriations to one of the Government bureaus under Smithsonian direction; through allotments from Smithsonian private funds ; through funds made available for specific field-work by friends of the Institution interested in some particular phase of its research work; or through cooperative arrangements with other scientific institutions.
Owing to the necessity for economy, this year’s pamphlet has been cut to the barest minimum, and much interesting detail has had to be omitted from each article. Enough is presented, however, to indicate the nature and scope of Smithsonian field-work.
Wo Po [Rue
Editor, Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 11>>>

7a ood!

<<<Page: 12>>>

GONTENTS PAGE Abbot, C. G. Establishing a new solar observing station on Mount St. Keatheninemmotna tele nimstlceeetrsys atc ki .waes oie viticisvero tenets ei nayareiens easton eels I Bartlett, Capt. R. A. Norcross-Bartlett Arctic expedition, 1933............ DS Bartsch, Paul. The first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea Expedition to the
AEG LOM Catiea lO) CED rreeia serena seser chal al ua ohetesci sr ohoke weciernh cotere cusenisioanenaeiens
/ Densmore, Frances. Studying Indian music in the Gulf States............ 57 Harrington, John P. Rescuing the early history of the California Indians... 54 Hough, Walter. Investigations on ancient canals in southern Arizona...... 32 Kellogg, Remington. The search for extinct marine mammals in Maryland.. 15 Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. An Arizona village of a thousand years ago..... 4t Schmitt, Waldo L. Hancock Galapagos expedition, 1933.............+---18 Setzlerebrank Vi Cave burials im southwesternm Dexass.o.-5-5cc. 01s 35 Setzler, Frank M. A phase of Hopewell mound builders in Louisiana...... 38 Smitha enaghe Mes Zoolosicalacollecting im) Siambecs scien tees se ce ek 28 Strong, W. D. Hunting ancient ruins in northeastern Honduras.......... 44
Strong, W. D. An archeological cruise among the Bay Islands of Honduras. 49

<<<Page: 13>>>

ey SNAG
Bo 7 -Aaasie
is o* ats

<<<Page: 14>>>

BoORARLISHING A NEW SOLAR OBSERVING STATION GM MOUN Sm. KATHERINE, SINAL PENINSULA
By C. G. Appot
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
In the years 1925-26 an observatory for measuring the sun’s radiation in cooperation with the Smithsonian observatories in California and Chile was located in South West Africa by the aid of a grant from the National Geographic Society. This station on Mount Brukkaros was occupied from the autumn of 1926 to the autumn of 1931. Owing to the variableness of the atmospheric clearness caused by high winds which drove clouds of dust over Mount Brukkaros, the results derived there on the intensity of the sun’s heat outside our atmosphere were not as accurate as those derived in California and Chile, though almost equally numerous per year.
As indicated in a paper entitled “ Weather Dominated py Solar Changes ”’,’ there seems to be an important influence produced on weather by variations from day to day of the sun’s output of radiation, even when such changes are of an order as small as 0.5 percent. athere is very great difficulty in obtaining results of sufficient accuracy to reveal and evaluate these small daily solar changes, owing to the interference due to changes in the transparency of our atmosphere. If additional observing stations as satisfactory as our station in Chile were available we might hope to overcome this obstacle. The outcome we might then hope for would be a prediction of weather changes for a week or 10 days in advance. Until values of solar variation of higher accuracy than those as yet available can be obtained, we cannot test this anticipation, or know whether it is exaggerated.
In a paper given at the National Academy of Sciences meeting in Cambridge on November 20, 1933, the writer pointed out evidence of a 23-year master cycle of periodicity in a group of solar changes, to which the weather responds in a manner to tend to repeat itself both as to temperature and precipitation each 23 years. This seems to promise long-range forecasting of the approaching seasons and of future years. The solar observations referred to above are not required for it, but rather for the attempt to improve relatively shortrange weather forecasting.
1 Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 85, no. 1, 1931.

<<<Page: 15>>>

Ooo oe ? 7 Pe ae Se awe eh Tay eet : 2 a eS SS ee
Fic. 1—The St. Katherine Monastery on Mount Sinai, one of the oldest in Christendom.
Itc. 2——Transporting material for the observatory on Mount St. Katherine up the new trail built by the monastery for the Smithsonian.

<<<Page: 16>>>

Having in a measure failed in our attempt to obtain sufficiently accurate solar-radiation measurements at Mount Brukkaros, A. F. Moore, director of our field station at Table Mountain, Calif., and Mrs. Moore spent many months in 1931 and 1932 in testing the favorableness of numerous stations in Africa. This expedition was supported by John A. Roebling. Failing to find a satisfactory location in West or South West Africa, Mr. and Mrs. Moore spent over 100 days in the months March to July of 1932 on Mount St. Katherine near Mount Sinai in Egypt.
Mount St. Katherine is about 8,500 feet in height and about 10 miles from the monastery of St. Katherine on Mount Sinai (fig. 1). The ground is very rough—a veritable wilderness of rocks. During Mr. and Mrs. Moore’s occupation the great majority of the days were calm and cloudless, but during the months prior to July, high haze was prevalent, which was somewhat disappointing. Nevertheless, there appeared to be no rapid alterations of its density, such as had ruined the prospect at Mount Brukkaros. On the whole, after more than 100 days of expert examination, Mount St. Katherine seemed to promise a better station than ours at Table Mountain, Calif., and perhaps almost as good as our station at Montezuma, Chile.
Advised of these findings, John A. Roebling made a grant to the Institution of funds to build and maintain for 3 years a station on Mount St. Katherine. The Archbishop, Porphyrios III, and the monks of the ancient monastery at Mount Sinai welcomed the project and undertook to construct trails (fig. 2), buildings, and water facilities. Later they undertook also the transportation of supplies by camel train from Tor, a port on the Red Sea, to the observatory, a 3-day journey. They have always been cordial and helpful to Mr. and Mrs. Moore and to the permanent staff of the expedition.
Having repaired and enlarged the outfit returned from Mount Brulkkaros, Harlan H. Zodtner, field director, and Frederick H. Greeley, assistant, sailed from New York on March 4, 1933, for Port Said. After the completion of the dwelling quarters on the Gebel Zebir, a spur of Mount St. Katherine, they were joined in the autumn by Mrs. Zodtner and her two young children.
A big camel train carried the boxes of apparatus and supplies, nearly 100 in number, from Tor to the monastery, where they were stored pending the erection of the observatory at the Gebel Zebir. A contract was made with Archbishop Porphyrios III, acting for the monastery, to build the station, the trail, and a protection to the water source. The architect employed by him completed and modified certain rough

<<<Page: 17>>>

Fic. 3.—Smithsonian solar observatory, Mount St. Katherine, 8,500 feet altitude. Sun rays reflected into the basement laboratory are observed with the bolometer, an electrical thermometer sensitive to a millionth of a degree.
Fic. 4.—The coelostat for reflecting sun rays constantly northward horizontally into the observing laboratory.

<<<Page: 18>>>

"SIOATOSGO 9Y} JO SIOqYsI9u IvdU ‘UOS puB YIEYs qvuiy
To) anil
eS Ry
‘Q0URYSIP 94} UI }IWILUNS 94} UO AJOWAIISGS "YRIS SulAtasqo 9y} jo Sdo}ienb SUTIMP sy], “OULIyeY “YS JUNOPY—'S ‘oly
PO SP is

<<<Page: 19>>>

sketches and specifications which the Institution furnished. The observing structure was built on the summit of Gebel Zebir, and the observers’ quarters on a comparatively level place somewhat lower. All the structures are of stone. The observatory, like our other observatories, is arranged with the spectro-bolometer and galvanometer mainly under ground to insure a steady temperature. The sun rays are reflected in from a coelostat outside. (See figs. 3, 4 and 5.)
Figure 6 illustrates some of the unusual types of neighbors.
The following extract from Mr. Moore’s letter of May 8, 1932, gives an interesting account of high mass at the monastery :
We spent last Sunday, the Greek church Easter, at the monastery. The monks were very anxious that we should do this rather than pack up the mountain on that day. (We arrived at the monastery the afternoon previous.) They showed us marked honor by inviting us to their Easter high mass and even had one monk from Suez who speaks a little English read part of the service in English for us. The monks, headed by the Archbishop, were dressed in gorgeous robes, and the Archbishop wore a gold crown studded with precious stones. They asked me to photograph them in their robes and I also took a movie of their procession. The mass lasted an hour and a half and was held in the beautiful church of the Transfiguration built by Justinian early in the sixth century. In the morning they had us attend the breaking of their 4o days’ fast in the monks dining room. The table in this room has rich carving underneath and is a great many hundred years old. We drank grape wine out of exquisite silver goblets hundreds of years old (I mean the goblets). In the late afternoon we had dinner with the Archbishop and monks in the garden adjoining the monastery. I forgot to state that during the afternoon mass and also at a similar mass beginning at midnight the night before there were firings of cannon, followed by a vociferous ringing of bells.
The observers were ready for regular work about October 1, but it proved that the two bolometers carried by the expedition had both been injured in the camel transportation from Tor to Gebel Zebir. One was indeed installed and tried out, but proved to be out of order. No means of repair being available, two other bolometers were sent out from the Institution at different times through diplomatic channels, of which the first reached the station in November.
A Christmas note from Mr. Greeley says:
We expect to spend our Christmas out here by Sinai among the Bedouins. The isolation of this place is no myth, and bright lights are hard to get to. Chickens are easy to obtain for a Christmas dinner, but nobody ever heard of cranberry sauce. Our little household does not complain much, but it makes us
appreciate our homes at this time of the year. We are fairly well settled and hope to start regular observing in a few days.

<<<Page: 20>>>

CEE shiRS) JORNSON-SMITHSONIAN DEEP-SEA EXPEDITION L©® THE PUERTO RICAN DEEP
By PAUL BARTSCH Curator, Division of Mollusks and Cenogoic Invertebrates, U.S. National Museum
Early in October 1932, Mr. Eldridge R. Johnson, of Philadelphia, offered the use of his palatial yacht Caroline to the Smithsonian Institution for marine exploration in the tropical Atlantic. Mr. Johnson’s tender carried with it generous provision for financing the expedition and supplying the necessary equipment. The project was delegated by the Secretary of the Institution to the writer.
Owing to the limited time available for the cruise, it was deemed wise to confine this first effort to a comparatively small area, the Puerto Rican Deep, the Atlantic’s greatest deep, which extends from northeast Hispaniola east to the Anegada Channel; it is about 235 miles long and one third as wide, with Puerto Rico rising steeply from its south-central reach.
The time between the last of October 1932, and January 21, 1933, was spent in gathering the needed equipment and making the necessary alterations in the ship to render her thoroughly fit for the undertaking, which was to be an all-around oceanographic expedition, taking into account the physical, chemical, and biological problems of the region to be investigated.
Little work had been done in the region, owing probably in part to the rough seas and in part to the unusually rough conditions of the bottom, which render dredging difficult and hazardous to the gear. Then, too, few vessels have been properly equipped to undertake collecting in the profound deeps.
The Caroline proved to be well suited to the task. Briefly, we may say for her that she was designed by Henry J. Gielow of New York, and built by the Bath Iron Works, Maine, in 1931. She has a length of 279 feet 10 inches, a beam of 38 feet, anda depth of hull of 27 feet. She is equipped with two 8-cylinder 1,500 hp. Cooper-Bessemer Diesel engines, and her twin propellers drive her at a speed of 15 nautical miles per hour. She carries enough oil to give her a cruising radius of 10,000 miles.
Auxiliary engines furnish power for her Sperry gyroscopic stab1lizer, which weighs more than 50 tons and keeps the ship’s roll down

<<<Page: 21>>>

Fic. 7—The Caroline, Mr. Johnson's yacht, 279 feet 10 inches long, with a 38-foot beam, whose large size and gyro-stabilizer enabled her to work in all kinds of weather.
Fic. 8—Mr. Johnson, the sponsor of the expedition (left), and Dr. Bartsch, its director.

<<<Page: 22>>>

Ftc. 10.—Mr. Fenimore Johnson (right) and Mr. Brown taking a sounding. With this method a depth of 400 fathoms (2,400 feet) could be ascertained in one second.
Fic. 11.—The coring machine. This weighs about 200 pounds, and when it is dropped swiftly, nozzle first, on the ocean floor, it penetrates to a varyins depth. Valves are then closed, and the core is brought up for analysis.

<<<Page: 23>>>

to a couple of degrees, thus making it possible to work under all conditions of the sea. These engines also actuate the gyro steering gear and the radiobeacon finder, the latter enabling us to plot our stations more accurately when out of sight of land than was possible previously when such aids were not available; they also furnish power for the wireless equipment, the sonic sounding machine, and the hydrographic and dredging winches.
We modified an aft section of the ship from side to side to serve as winch room on the first deck, and changed the smoking room on the boat deck into a laboratory with aquaria and running salt and fresh water ; here the recording part of the sonic sounding apparatus was installed. A dark room was also provided for the photographer immediately abaft the laboratory, and the boat deck was modified to serve as the base from which most of our investigations were conducted.
Thanks to the cooperation of many men and institutions we were able to set out with a feeling of completeness seldom experienced. We are particularly indebted to the United States Navy, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the United States Bureau of Fisheries, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Carnegie Institution of Washington, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, the New York Zoological Society, Bergen Nautik, Norway, Richter and Wiese, Berlin, Dr. Sverdrup, of Oslow, Norway, and the Hamburg American Steamship Company, as well as to individuals too numerous to be mentioned here. Capt. Andrew Peterson and his force of 42 officers and men were as able, efficient, and eager as the nine carefully selected members of the scientific staff, which was augmented by Mr. Johnson, his son Fenimore, Mr. Douglass and his family, and Dr. Darby.
Besides the biological work, meteorological, physical, and chemical investigations were carried on. Air temperatures were taken with both wet and dry bulb thermometers, and a pilot balloon was flown every morning and evening and its flight recorded with a theodolite. Water temperatures at the sea surface were taken, and at several stations serial temperatures were recorded at definite depths from the surface to 3,200 fathoms, with both protected and unprotected thermometers. Simultaneously, water samples were obtained at these stations by means of Nansen water bottles, and these have been analyzed for their saline and gaseous contents. A number of cores of ocean bottom were obtained with the 2-inch coring machine.
More than 900 sonic soundings were recorded. These consisted of three lines through the long axis of the deep, each 235 miles long, with stations 5 miles apart. A connecting line from shore to the

<<<Page: 24>>>

Fic. 12.—The tangle goes overboard. With it we would sweep the ocean floor for about 20 minutes and then comb the tangle for the animals caught in its meshes.
Fic. 13—The dredge comes in with about a ton of soft, oozy mud composed of the minute skeletons of marine animals.
Fic. 14.—A Chesapeake Bay oyster dredge was found to be a useful tool on rough bottom, where the chain links of the bag prevented tearing.

<<<Page: 25>>>

farthest parallel was also run, with a similar interval. The three parallel lines were 20 miles apart, and the deepest sounding recorded, using a 400-fathom per second standard, was 4,400 fathoms. This Ir-second interval was twice recorded. It should be stated that the depth here provisionally recorded will eventually be considerably higher—more than 4,600 fathoms—when corrections for salinity and temperature have been applied. In addition to these soundings, many readings were taken before and during dredging operations. We also carefully sounded out a 5-mile square in Mona Island passage in order to learn the contour of the bottom and shape our dredging activities accordingly on this exceedingly rough bottom. The speed with which records of this kind can now be accurately obtained makes sonic sounding a vast improvement over the wire sounding methods used on all my previous cruises on the United States Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross. Instead of taking a sounding at the beginning and end of a dredge haul, we were able to keep a constant record of the depth and plot the contour of the bottom as we passed over it.
A pressure chamber devised by Fenimore Johnson was tried at intervals to a depth of 3,000 fathoms, and it is intended to use this for light registration and photography and possibly as a luminous bait for traps on the next cruise.
The biological collecting was done with a variety of implements. When the bottom was too rough to stand nets, we employed a tangle, a 6-foot length of 2-inch pipe from which frayed loops of hawser 8 feet long were suspended. With such a swab the ocean floor was swept for 20 minutes, and in its tangled threads many bottom-living forms were enmeshed.
When it was possible, we used a dredge consisting of a heavy iron frame with the long sides slightly flaring, from the rear end of which was suspended a net protected on the outside with a canvas sleeve. We soon learned that nothing larger than a 4-foot element could safely be employed on account of the roughness of the bottom. Samples of bottom mud, made up largely of the skeletons of minute creatures, were preserved undisturbed.
On very rough bottom we found the Chesapeake oyster dredge with its linked chain bag very serviceable. On smoother bottom we used the 6-foot or the 9-foot reversible beam trawl, which consists of two U-shaped steel runners 4 inches wide and 4 feet long held apart by tubes of the desired length. To the four open ends of the loops is attached the long net with its lead line at the mouth end. The bag is kept open by hollow glass spheres suspended on the inside.

<<<Page: 26>>>

Fic. 15.—Ena Douglass with a bouI*tc. 16.—The viper fish,
/ : ae ar ne ~ omen 5 SES at Rapparees ar serene
Fic. 20.—a, restoration of extinct porpoise (Zarhachis flayellator Cope), which is based on fossil remains found in the cliffs along Chesapeake Bay, Md. 8, skull and lower jaws of Zarhachis flageNator Cope. Collected by Norman H. Boss, roar.
baleen or whalebone, which hang from and are attached to the roof of the mouth and serve as a seine when the animal is feeding on crustaceans and small fish. In spite of the extraordinary remodeling of the skull, these archaic whalebone whales have retained many primitive features that are no longer found in the toothed whales. The skulls of most of them are more or less alike in general appearance, but differ from one another in the details of their construction. From the fossil remains that have been found in these deposits, it can be shown that several lines of development are represented, and a study of these types in conjunction with other kinds from earlier and later formations enables one to trace some of the steps in the geologic history of these warm-blooded marine mammals.

<<<Page: 27>>>

By WALDO SCHNMIE Tt Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U.S. National Museum
It was my privilege to serve as a member of the scientific staff of Capt. G. Allan Hancock’s expedition of 1933 to the Galapagos Islands, an expedition that in addition to its main purpose—scientific collecting—combined all the elements needed to make it a memorable cruise— beautiful cruiser, tropic seas, isles of romance, and an equator crossing.
With a heavy collecting outfit and a light heart, therefore, I left New York, on January 5, 1933, to join the cruiser at Panama. On January 13 we arrived at Balboa, Canal Zone, where I was met by Captain Hancock and his associate, W. Charles Swett, who is also first officer aboard the Velero I/I. The cruiser is a trim and graceful craft, approximately 200 feet long, with 30-foot beam and 1,000-ton displacement ; of especially seaworthy construction of the steel hull cruiser type, following as nearly as possible navy standards, and powered by two Winton reversible Diesels capable of driving the vessel at 14 knots. She is especially noteworthy for her electrical and mechanical equipment, navigational aids being of the latest and most approved patterns. She was fully and luxuriously equipped for extended cruising, carrying sufficient supplies of all kinds to enable her to make a 10,000-mile trip without replenishing any stores.
After leaving the Canal Zone, we arrived on the morning of the 16th at Malpelo Island, a forbidding, precipitous rock which rises sheer from the ocean floor some 2,000 fathoms below. It is impossible to anchor off this island, and landing is uncertain and frequently unsafe. Good fortune was with us, however, and the low tide during the forenoon enabled us to land for a few hours. We collected an extensive series of the Malpelo land crab, of which only one specimen had heretofore been taken.
January 17 found us off La Libertad, Ecuador, in the vicinity of which we spent five days collecting. The only accident of the entire expedition occurred off Salanga Island. In coming out through heavy surf, our boat was swamped, but with the help of two native fishermen who came up,at the time, we dumped the water out of the boat and shoved off safely, having suffered no ill effects other than having been thoroughly soaked.

<<<Page: 28>>>

Fic. 21.—Cruiser Velero III, Capt. G. Allan Hancock, director and sponsor of the expedition, commanding.
Fic. 22—Examining results of a haul with the tangle in 56 fathoms off Charles Island, Galapagos. Two specimens of a rare ophiuran were taken in this haul.
fies nnd iad eed EME CAS
Pi ee Sa om a aie _ Feo eR =
Fic. 23——Giant Manta with a spread of 14 feet. This huge fish subsists largely on minute shrimplike animals.

<<<Page: 29>>>

Fic. 24.—Wafer Bay, Cocos Island, the Treasure Island of history. California fishing boats in the offing.
Z efits Due we es ee ema mete =< "sgh tae eo ess nd net _— smear git eee are 4 ea a — ee a CA nae ee “sie. ie
Fic. 25.—Dr. Schmitt receiving coral clumps from native divers, Bahia Honda, Republic of Panama. A number of very interesting crustacean finds were made in these coral clumps.
‘a, "a
. a “Ane Pt
Fic. 26.—One of the characteristic features of the Galapagos fauna, a rare iguana nearly 4 feet in length.

<<<Page: 30>>>

On the morning of the 24th we made our first stop in the Galapagos, at Gardner Bay, Hood Island, where we remained collecting until the 26th, when we got under way for Charles Island. On this island there are now three establishments, comprising nine persons in all, who have come here in order to live their lives as they see fit, unhampered by the conventions of civilization. They seem to be living quite contentedly, although they are obliged to do a tremendous amount of work in order to provide themselves with even the barest necessities
Fic. 27.—Staff of the expedition. Standing, left to right: C. B. Perkins, Capt. G. Allan Hancock, Waldo L. Schmitt, H. M. Wegeforth, Fred C. Ziesenhenne. Front row: Ray Elliott, Jr., Louis Filley, George Hugh Banning, Sterling Smith, Hermann Marsh, John S. Garth. Executive officer W. Charles Swett does not appear, as he took the photograph.
of existence. On Indefatigable Island is another little group of settlers, consisting of two families and two or three Norwegian and Ecuadorian fishermen. One settler is an architect from the States who, when the depression brought him low financially, came here with his wife. He preferred to live where he could establish a home and plantation by his own efforts rather than to starve or live on charity in the big cities.
Altogether, we visited 12 of the 16 islands accredited to the Galapagos group, spending from one to six days at each stop. Intensive

<<<Page: 31>>>

bo bo
collecting was carried on at all times, and we obtained what will undoubtedly prove to be the most comprehensive single collection of Crustacea ever brought away from those islands. Probably the most outstanding finds were the fresh-water Crustacea found in rain-filled lava crevices and fresh-water streams on various islands. Preliminary surveys of all the material collected reveal so far three new species of crabs, a new species of starfish, a new species of pycnogonid, and many new records. The take of foraminifera alone has proved to bea revelation, containing many more new species and records than one could have believed existed in the region.
On February 27 we departed from the Galapagos Islands, making for Panama, including on the way a four-day stop at the famed treasure island, Cocos, and on the fifth of March we reached Panama, where the replenishment of stores and other wants necessitated a four-day stay at Balboa. An overnight visit to the Barro Colorado Island Laboratory was made possible through the kindness of Dr. James Zetek, resident director.
The journey homeward was as busy a time for all members of the party as had been the earlier portion of the expedition. Collections were made at Bahia Honda, Republic of Panama; Puerto Culebra, Costa Rica; and Tangola-Tangola Bay, Oaxaca, Petatlan Bay, Guerrero, Tenacatita Bay, Jalisco, Isabel Island, Sinaloa, and Santa Maria Bay, Baia California, Mexico.
Such, in brief, was our busy and crowded itinerary. Throughout, all members of the staff of the expedition and the entire crew rendered all assistance in their power to make the whole undertaking an unqualified success. Captain Hancock took an interested and active part in all of our several endeavors, and to him, as sponsor, captain of the vessel, and director of the expedition, is wholly due what measure of success we may individually have attained. Equally grateful are we to W. Charles Swett, Captain Hancock’s most able lieutenant, who, in addition to his multifarious duties as first executive officer, was also the ever busy photographer and cinematographer of the expedition. All but one of the photographs adorning this account are the results of his labors.
The making fast of the Velero III to her dock at San Pedro, Calif., on March 25 marked the end of this glorious cruise to the Galapagos, except for packing the collections and returning to Washington.

<<<Page: 32>>>

NOGRCKOSs-BARTEE TT ARCTIC EXPEDITION, 1933 Ihe (GAP 1 ek, TEVA IIE IS WAP
For the past 10 years it has been my pleasure to work in cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution each year in furthering scientific studies of the forms of animal and plant life of Arctic lands and waters and their zoogeographic distribution. Particularly rich have been the collections of marine life, chiefly invertebrate, comprising decapod crustaceans, amphipods, isopods, barnacles, copepods, alcyonarians, worms, foraminifera, other bottom organisms and deposits, mollusks ; also fish, birds, and small mammals. Algae and terrestrial plants have been collected, as have also insects. Reports on these groups and others for which specialists are available are either in process of being worked up or are awaiting publication. Incidentally, the only male specimen of the Arctic bumble bee, Bombus hyperboreus Schonherr, in the National Museum collection was picked up on our 1931 expedition to northeast Greenland. To date, from among the thousands of specimens of foraminifera that I have collected, 100 species, representing 64 genera, have been recorded by Dr. J. A. Cushman. Not less than 10 of these proved to be new species.
The organization of the present trip was made possible by the generous cooperation of Arthur D. Norcross, of New York City, my associate and companion on other northern expeditions. Early in June 1933, my little Morrissey headed away from New York on her eighth trip to the land of the Great White North. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates, United States National Museum, had seen that the collecting equipment was in proper shape. He has been for Io years or more my inspiration, and under his guidance and enthusiasm I am becoming more and more interested and enlightened in the work and care of the collection. No one knows but myself the great thrill I get when the dredge comes up and its contents are spread out on deck or on the ice floe.
Leaving Brigus, we decided to go through the Hudson Strait, up Fox Channel, through Fox Basin to Fury and Hecla Strait; and, if ice conditions were right, to go on through and come out through Lancaster Sound into Baffin Bay and over to Cape York to the site of the Peary Monument. On the way up the Labrador coast I stopped at Turnavik and gave the three families living there enough salt to

<<<Page: 33>>>

Fic. 28.—Captain Bartlett and one of his Eskimo friends.
Frc. 29—Unusual close-up of a walrus off the Labrador Coast.

<<<Page: 34>>>

cure their catch of cod the coming summer. Turnavik was first visited by my father, then a young man, 65 years ago. He had his own steamer and about 500 men, boys, and girls, with all the supplies to catch and cure the cod, salmon, and trout. He traded with the Nascopie Indians and Eskimo for furs, ete. The cod, when cured by the sun in the fall, was shipped to Spain, Portugal, Italy, and Greece, in small square-rigged Welsh vessels. The salmon and trout, with the codliver oil and furs, went to St. John’s, Newfoundland. It is very sad today to see only a few houses and a store or two, a wharf and a couple of boats—all that is left at Turnavik.
Knowing the coast so well and the inland waters, I could carry on, having smooth water and fine weather, all through the 24 hours. Magnificent scenery unfolds itself along the Labrador coast, similar to that of the Norwegian fiords. On and on we went, with plenty of field ice to bother us, but fine weather. We saw walruses, polar bears, and birds, and at every chance we used the dredge both on the Labrador coast and going into Hudson Strait. Much ice and strong currents were encountered, and at times I would not have given much for the Morrissey’s chances. The ice coming out of Fox Basin between Salisbury Island and the Baffin Island shore prevented our getting north early, so I steamed over to Southampton Island, and on up through Roe’s Welcome, which is the strait between the west shores of Southampton Island and the coast of North America. In this part of the Welcome the whalers from New Bedford, New London, Mystic, and Stonington long ago caught thousands and thousands of right whales.
We tried to get out through Frozen Strait into Fox Channel, but ice conditions were too bad, and we had to retrace our journey to the north shore of the Hurd Channel and start over the trail taken by the British sailing ships Fury and Hecla which in 1821, 1822, and 1823 made the first visits in history to this part of the world. England was seeking the northwest passage, and every nook, cranny, and corner trending westward was searched by their ships or their small boats, and when the freeze-up came, they pulled sledges. Against the titanic forces of nature, in terrible storms of wind, fog, and snow, with compass irregularities, and over water that no white man had ever traversed, these heroic souls worked their two little square-rigged vessels up the Melville Peninsula, reaching the Fury and Hecla Strait, which, however, they could not enter owing to ice conditions. We also, working up over the same trail, had bad ice conditions, and we also were stopped in our efforts to go through the Fury and Hecla Strait.

<<<Page: 35>>>

‘IO]f VI ue JO ISpa 94}
ye Ispaip 94} Surjnez{—Il °
‘O01 OY} Ut Lassitso py 94 [—'0€

<<<Page: 36>>>

The season was now getting late, and any day the good weather would leave us. At every opportunity we used the dredge, in the mouth of the strait and in the strait, and also in the north portion of the Fox Basin. This will dovetail into our other work of 1927 in the southeast part of the basin and Fox Channel. Leaving here around the mid-
Fic. 32—Captain Bartlett preserving specimens brought up by the dredge.
dle of September, in blinding snow and with a good westerly wind, in five days we reached Turnavik, Labrador, and on the roth of October we were tied up to our dock at the McWilliams shipyard, Staten Island. All our collection was turned over to Dr. Schmitt at the National Museum, and I understand that the material from 125 different stations comprises more than 2,000 specimens.

<<<Page: 37>>>

By HUGH M. SMITH Adviser and Expert in Fisheries to His Siamese Majesty's Government, and Associate in Zoology, U.S. National Museum
At the beginning of the year a protracted tour in northwestern Siam was under way, through a region never before visited on behalf of the National Museum. The expedition started from Chiengmai, the ancient capital of northern Siam, headed northwesterly, crossed a dozen mountain ranges, and reached the remote town of Mehongsoon, on the Pai River, a tributary of the Salwin. The trail was difficult, and transportation was a serious matter ; 33 Lao carriers and 12 pack horses were required to move the equipment of my personal party of five persons who, with four men to look after the pack train and two gendarmes, composed the caravan. The Salwin, which for a long distance forms the boundary between Siam and Burma, was descended in dug-out canoes 20 meters long and 1 meter wide, each managed by seven men provided with paddles and poles. Numerous rapids were “shot ”’, frequent stops were made on both the Siamese and Burmese sides of the river, and every night a camp was established on a sand or shingle bank. When the limit of navigation at this season was reached, pack animals and carriers were resumed, and the expedition finally reached Moulmein, Burma, at the mouth of the Salwin. It should be understood that this trip was primarily undertaken for fishery investigation on behalf of the Siamese Government.
Much of the region traversed was primeval forest jungle, abounding in tigers, leopards, elephants, gibbons and tailed monkeys, deer, seladang and banteng, bears, etc. Peafowl were common in the river bottoms and, with pheasants and jungle fowl, contributed to the larder, which consisted largely of rice and canned goods. A characteristic bird was a forktail (Enicurus), shy, always single or in pairs, haunting the rocks in mountain brooks in dense jungle; six or eight might be seen in a day’s march. In swift, shallow streams in some sections there lived a giant frog, with body over 20 centimeters long, which is a food delicacy of the mountain people; specimens were obtained. The eggs are laid in rapid water, and sand and gravel are heaped over them, making a little mound which the carriers recognized ; a mound opened on January 19 contained well-developed eggs. The mountain brooks yielded many peculiar fishes, some of them with gills, mouth parts, and fins strongly modified in form and function

<<<Page: 38>>>

Fic. 33.—Typical mountain scenery, northern Siam. There is unbroken evergreen forest (oak, chestnut, etc.) stretching for scores of miles.
Fic. 34.—A fisherman and his outfit of basket traps, Eastern Siam.

<<<Page: 39>>>

‘opsunt JusoR{pe 9} Ul punoge spiedoa] “peze]JOD s1oM Sosy JO soroeds Mou jo Joquinu ke ‘WweIg Usey}iou UT UrejyunoUl ysiy eB Jo aseq oy} ye SUIMOY ‘punoirsyoerq oy} Ul UAOYS WeII}S POI dy} UT “Joltiwo JoyeM ov] W— Ole DUEL
‘SSOP O} jeised Aotei yotyM ‘spivdoay JOF JACI IPIOAL} VY ‘Weg Utoy}I0U ‘gpsunf{ uleyunow ul YWWS “WOH Gq —se) LET
2 <i is ;

<<<Page: 40>>>

to adapt them for existence in rapid water. Many people of the Karen, Lawa, and other races were met with. They live in their own remote mountain villages, maintain their ancient customs and dress, and go into the towns only for bartering.
Further collections of mammals, birds, and reptiles were made in March in Bung Borapet, a vast swampy area in central Siam which has been dammed, converted into a permanent lake, and set aside as a fish preserve. Immense numbers of fish-eating and marsh-inhabiting birds (pelicans, herons, egrets, jacanas, rails, coots, moor hens, teals, terns, anhingas, kingfishers, etc.) occur, together with kites, hawks, and vultures, and in the trees about the edges of the swamp are squirrels and long-tailed monkeys, with various passerine birds such as weaver birds, amadavats, shrikes, and flycatchers.
The Khun Tan Mountains in northern Siam were revisited in May for the third or fourth time. Among interesting birds obtained was a broadbill (Serilophus lunatus elizabethae), known from Yunnan but apparently unrecorded from Siam.
During August and September, and again in December, collections were made in mountainous sections in the lower part of peninsular Siam, the scene of Dr. W. L. Abbott’s activities in the interest of the National Museum many years ago. Birds and mammals are numerous and in great variety, and a number of forms not represented in recent collections were obtained. Argus pheasants are still fairly common and their dancing floors in deep jungle are often seen, but the birds are very wild. The Malayan tapir occurs but is very rare.
Kao Sabab, an extensive isolated mountain rising from the coastal plain in southeast Siam, was visited in October and November. It 1s covered with evergreen forest and is largely in a primeval condition except for rubber plantations and fruit and pepper gardens on its lower slopes. Mammals that are commonly met with are black bears, wild boars, hog-badgers, giant and other squirrels, mouse deer, large short-tailed monkeys (going in bands of 20 to 30), and white-faced gibbons. Characteristic birds are tree partridges of two species frequenting different altitudes ; pheasants representing the species Gennaeus lewist recently described from Cambodia, rather common but difficult to obtain ; and the remarkable white-and-black oriole (Oriolus mellianus), of which a good series was secured from the tallest trees on the higher slopes. A giant cicada with a very loud call was much in evidence in the dense forest, and in places ticks and land leeches were very troublesome.
A number of shipments of Siamese natural history material were forwarded to the National Museum during the year.

<<<Page: 41>>>

By WALTER HOUGH Head Curator of Anthropology, U.S. National Museum
In connection with a study of primitive irrigation in the Southwest the writer visited, from January 23, to March 27, 1933, the Salt River Valley and other sections in southern Arizona to examine the conditions surrounding the ancient irrigation projects in the valley. This valley, divided almost equally by the Salt River, comprises many thousands of acres of level land gently sloping from east to west and rising gradually north and south from the river, terraced near the limits north and south. The soil of the valley is rich, thick alluvium overlying gravels, boulder gravels, and sand layers, denoting heavy deposition by water in an earlier period. The gravels are of varicolored hard rocks dating from the Cambrian and subsequent periods, tightly packed in beds but not cemented.
The vegetation comprises a large number of species of desert plants, among which may be mentioned cottonwood, mesquite, ironwood, palo verde, ocotillo, catsclaw, yucca, agave, sahuaro, viznaga, encelia, sage, covillea, and small ground-cover plants. The most conspicuous tree is the cottonwood. A great variety of exotic plants have been introduced into the valley. The valley was never forested, and the early task of clearing off the vegetation by fire and the stone hoe was not difficult.
Since the building of the Roosevelt Dam and the clearing of the valley for irrigation, most of the evidence of the early canals has been lost. Sections of the old ditches along the river may be seen. The heads dug in boulder beds on the Pima Reserve east of Mesa are well preserved, and the work represented excites wonder (figs. 37-39). An aerial survey undertaken by Neil M. Judd, with the assistance of the War Department, picked up many canals not to be seen from the ground and corrected former surveys made by Frank Hamilton Cushing and F. W. Hodge, E. R. Patrick, engineer, and Dr. Omar Turney from 1893 to 1905. The canal system at Casa Grande was surveyed by Dr. Byron Cummings. The Indian work represents skillful engineering in getting the water on the land. Odd S. Halseth, city archeologist of Phoenix, advances the idea that the land served by the early canals along the river became useless on account of saturation. This feature was encountered in recent years by the Irrigation Dis-

<<<Page: 42>>>

‘spoq JaBARIS YSnoIy} [BUR JUIIOUR JO ASINO)— RE “LT
‘Z1ly 'X1us0y4 Jvou sjeurd justoue JO peosy jo uolIyDIG—LE “OL

<<<Page: 43>>>

trict and a pumping system was required to carry excess water to lower levels.
Remains of ancient Indian adobe settlements are scattered over the valley. One important ruin preserved for science is the property of the Heard Museum and lies in the heart of Phoenix. Another, in the eastern section of the city, is under the care of Mr. Halseth, being excavated by him and prepared as a civic attraction. The ruin Los Muertos, explored by Cushing, lies south of Tempe. Other ruins have been leveled. Collections of archeological interest are to be seen in the Heard Museum and the Phoenix Free Museum, Phoenix, and the University of Arizona Museum at Tucson.
In the late seventeenth century the first white man penetrating the valley found that the Indians had abandoned the canalizations of their
Fic. 39 Embankment of ancient canals near Phoenix, Ariz.
forefathers. The Pimas had no traditions as to the reasons for this nor as to the time when they were abandoned. It is evident that the Pimas are a remnant of the large population that constructed scores of miles of the canals and were decimated by causes unknown. The Pimas still irrigate by means of canals that lead from the river and are filled at the time of floods. It appears that the former inhabitants of the large adobe ruins near Tucson, visited during the course of this study, watered their fields mainly by warping along the Santa Cruz River and the Rillito.
In conclusion, it may be said that the canal system of the Salt and Gila Rivers is a development of the warping irrigation practiced by other Southwestern Indians. Credit for assistance in this investigation is due Dr. Byron Cummings, Col. J. H. McClintock, Will C. Barnes, and Odd S. Halseth.

<<<Page: 44>>>

Cx BURTAES IN SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS
By FRANK M. SETZLER Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U.S. National Museum
The Smithsonian Institution’s archeological program in southwestern Texas was concentrated in the Pecos River valley. From February to June, 1933, one large and one small cave were completely excavated.
Both caves were on property owned by Mrs. E. P. Bell, of Del Rio, Texas, who willingly sanctioned the work and by her cooperation made our sojourn very pleasant. R. E. McDonald, in charge of Plant Quarantine and Control Administration, United States Department of Agriculture, at San Antonio, Texas, again assisted us. His own personal interest and the services of his department greatly contributed to the success of the expedition.
The large cave (fig. 40), about 200 feet above the Pecos River in the wall of the canyon, is approximately 40 feet wide at its mouth and 300 feet deep. The other cave, which opened on a small canyon just south of Deadman’s Canyon, a tributary of the Pecos, measured about 69 feet in width and 38 feet in depth.
In the large one, known as the Moorehead Cave, a very interesting burial was disclosed. Near the west wall, just below the surface of the deposit, was a thick stratum of yucca leaves and debris which rested on and around large limestone blocks. Under the stones were small branches from the persimmon, shin oak, and mountain laurel, with the leaves still attached. Beneath this covering of limbs were several complete mats somewhat similar to fragments found during the previous two seasons. Five large mats, some of them painted, were in a rather good state of preservation and were wrapped around a body and tied with lechuguilla cordage and split leaves. When the mats were folded back we found the articulated bones of a middle aged woman (fig. 41). Beneath the bones encircling the midriff was a narrow band of matting. This, woven in practically the same manner as the large mats, may have served as a belt. Beneath the pelvic bones was what appeared to be a small skirt or pad made of either fur or apocynum. Several strands of Jechuguilla cordage served as apron strings. These were the only objects found with the body.
Directly beside this woman, enclosed in a beautifully woven mat, painted on one side with red squares and dots in the center of each square, were fragments of a disarticulated adult male skeleton. The

<<<Page: 45>>>

=~, . ai a Fic. 41.—Burial of an adult woman. To the left, under tag and whisk broom, were the cremated bones of an adult male (see fig. 42).
ae a
s 5 iSF i Shee
Fic. 42—The large painted mat with the broken and cremated bones of an adult male.

<<<Page: 46>>>

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1933 a7 bones had been broken and then burned before burial in the mat (fig. 42). Both bodies had been placed in a large pit lined with grass. Such a combination of cremated and flesh burials lying adjacent to each other in the same grave 1s very unusual.
In the cave near Deadman’s Canyon, designated Goat Cave, we found two graves dug in sotol ashes and lined with grass. After the bodies had been placed in these grass pockets they were covered with mats and fragments of milling stones. The dry ashes had preserved them so well that the flesh and hair still adhered to the bones and one could almost detect the expressions on their faces (fig. 43). Even some of the viscera were preserved. One of the desiccated bodies with its fur robe, mats, baskets, etc., reached the Museum intact.
Fic. 43.—Desiccated body in Goat Cave.
Numerous similarities and a few variations are significant when a comparison is made between the cultural material from these caves and those dug in the previous seasons. No evidence of corn was found in either of the two caves, which was rather surprising since there were such large quantities of corn cobs farther west. Over 300 various types of complete flint projectile points were recovered, whereas only a few were found in the Chisos Mountain region. The typical splitstitch type of coiled basketry farther west is not the dominant type in the Pecos, although it does occur. It is superseded by a type known as the interlocking stitch with a single-bundle foundation. The accouterments associated with the adult burials in the Moorehead and Goat Caves excel the few artifacts associated with child burials uncovered in Brewster and Presidio Counties.

<<<Page: 47>>>

By FRANK M. SETZLER Assistant Curator, Division of Archeology, U.S. National Museum
In June 1933, the city of Marksville, La., acquired a group of adjacent mounds for development as a park. Early in the summer, the city council voted to begin the planned improvements, and the council and the local officers of the Emergency Relief Administration of Louisiana jointly invited the Smithsonian Institution to send one of its staff to supervise the restorations.
All was in readiness when I reached Marksville, August 22. Through the excellent support of the Park Committee, the town council, J. A. Skelton, J. O. Brouillette, and Walter Chatelain, and especially through the cordial cooperation of Mr. and Mrs. U. B. Evans of Alexandria, more work was accomplished within the next 10 weeks than would have been possible under ordinary circumstances. James A. Ford, of Clinton, Miss., assisted in supervision of restorations and remained in charge after my return to Washington, November 1.
The city had acquired over two thirds of the land, including mounds 4, 5, and 6, as well as a pure Hopewell village site, within the wellpreserved enclosure known as the Marksville Works. Mound 4, partially excavated by the late Gerard Fowke in 1926, was further examined and found to contain many data of archeological significance. Village debris, disclosed by numerous decorated potsherds, had largely been used as building material for the mound. Traces of 12 burials with a few accompanying earthenware offerings were disclosed during our operations. Other artifacts recovered include clay platform or monitor pipes, a cut conch shell, one small fragment of copper, and numerous chipped flint projectile points (fig. 44). The surface of the village site was strewn with incised decorated potsherds, fragments of platform pipes, flint knife blades, crudely chipped projectile points, and a crystal quartz bannerstone fragment (fig. 45). A rectangular semisubterranean outline of a house was here revealed. Most of these artifacts are similar to those found in the northern Hopewell mounds, which represent one of the highest and most spectacular prehistoric mound-building cultures in the Mississippi Valley.
A most unusual pottery vessel, elliptical in form and embodying two distinct types of decorative patterns, came from mound 4. One half has the usual northern Hopewell technique, namely, conventionalized birds outlined by smooth bands between deeply incised lines,

<<<Page: 48>>>

Fic. 44.—Potsherds, projectile points, and clay platform pipes from mound 4, Marksville Works.
Fic. 45—Potsherds, clay platform pipe fragments, projectile points, flake knives and bannerstone fragment from village site in Marksville Works.
Fic. 46.—Vessels from mound 4. Center, unusual vessel combining two methods of decoration: the usual northern Hopewell on the right side, fluted
on the left side. Right, vessel with scroll design in the usual Hopewell technique. Left, vessel with fluted design.

<<<Page: 49>>>

the rest of the surface roughened by roulette and zigzag. On the other half is a well-balanced design of deeply incised concentric and parallel lines closely spaced, producing a complex fluted surface. The decoration on both covers the rounded base, which is slightly constricted between the two patterns, giving the illusion that two small circular vessels had been joined together. Around the neck is the usual line of bisected cone indentations (fig. 46). The conventionalized bird design and the bisected cones are found on vessels from the Hopewell mounds in the north. But the fluted design has never been reported, although this technique is used on several vessels and numerous potsherds from Marksville. This vessel, therefore, combining the two techniques, establishes a relationship between the fluted and the northern
oe NG ri i POT, Das | oe ele N
Fic. 47—Removing earth from habitation level 34 feet below surface of mound 6.
Hopewell. The closely spaced incised-line method of decoration also
appears on vessels found associated with the Caddo type of ware.
Another jar has a scroll design around the body, incised in the usual Hopewell manner of decoration (fig. 46). The scroll is a common motif in the Southeast, especially on vessels associated with Tunica, Natchez, and Caddo remains.
The data obtained give definite proof that the prehistoric Indians who lived and built the mounds on this site were closely allied in their culture-phase to those known as the Hopewell in the northern Mississipp1 Valley. Because of variations, however, especially in the mode of burial, and the lack of certain northern cultural traits, this phase should be considered a southeastern variant. Marksville is the first site in the Southeast producing so clear a relationship.

<<<Page: 50>>>

Me RIZONASVILEAGE OF A THOUSAND YEARS AGO By FRANK H. H. ROBERTS, JR.
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
The remains of a small village built, occupied, and abandoned during the ninth century were excavated by the writer during the months of July and August, 1933, while he was on leave of absence from the Bureau of American Ethnology. The ruins are located 34 miles south of Allantown, Ariz., at the foot of the escarpment that forms the western border of Whitewater Valley. They are adjacent to the site where researches were conducted during the field seasons of 1931 and 1932. The 1933 work was done under the auspices of the Laboratory of Anthropology at Santa Fe, N. Mex., as a part of its annual program of field training for graduate students in anthropology. The party was composed of men, holders of Laboratory fellowships, chosen from Harvard, Oklahoma University, the University of Texas, and the University of Minnesota. Zuni and Navajo Indians were employed as workmen to assist in the actual digging operations.
The area chosen for investigation was small enough so that it could be uncovered completely during the time available for such work. At the close of the season two unit dwellings—one consisting of five rooms and an underground chamber, the other containing seven rooms
and a subterranean chamber—a third underground structure, and several courts had been excavated. Trenches through the refuse mounds yielded 24 burials with accompanying mortuary offerings. The skeletal remains furnish material for a study of the physical characteristics of the people and the objects from the graves supply examples of the village handicraft. In the collection of specimens, which includes pottery, stone tools, bone implements and ornaments, perhaps the most striking are some tiny beads, made from white and red shells, found in a pile in the corner of a room. They are so small that they average 20 to the inch, and when threaded, they made a string 37 feet 34 inches long, one of the longest ever found in the Southwest. Despite its small size, the site contributed valuable data on developments occurring within a single phase in the history of the pre-Spanish Pueblo Indians. The village was not erected in its entirety at the outset. It grew gradually through the construction of new rooms and additional enclosures. While this expansion was taking place, changes
*Explorations and Field-work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931, pp. 141150, 1932; idem, 1932, pp. 65-68, 1933.

<<<Page: 51>>>

were made in the methods and technique of construction. As a consequence it is possible to trace the steps in the transition between the characteristic house types of two cultural horizons, namely, Pueblo | and Pueblo II. In the erection of walls three forms of masonry were progressively employed. The first consisted of large stone slabs set upright around the periphery of the room, the second was marked by vertical slab foundations with overlying horizontally laid stones, and the third was composed wholly of flat courses. A few timbers used as roof beams were sufficiently preserved to make possible their dating by means of the tree-ring method, and these show that the village was erected and occupied during the period between 800 and
850 A. D. There was nothing suggesting a reason for the abandonment of the place.
———— < iy =
Fic. 48.—View of site taken shortly after beginning of investigations.
Several things that open limitless fields for speculation and conjecture were noted during the progress of the excavations. Among these were a legless skeleton on the bench in one of the ceremonial chambers ; a skeleton, with bashed-in skull, lying in such a position as to indicate that the body had been hurled face downward, hands tied behind the back, into a shallow pit and then covered over; a human foot embedded in plaster behind a large stone slab in the corner of a room; a man’s leg bone, scored and scratched by the sharp teeth of a enawing animal, buried beneath a pile of refuse; a small cemetery in which a number of turkeys and dogs had been interred, apparently with as much care as was shown in burying deceased human members of the community. Behind each of these disclosures there doubtless lies a story, which, could it be known, would reveal curious aspects of the mental attitude and social behavior peculiar to the times.

<<<Page: 52>>>

Fic. 49.—Portion of completed excavation showing two types of wall construction.
a eS
ea Pek Bee
Fre. 50.—One end of the village. Man is standing on floor of a subterranean chamber.

<<<Page: 53>>>

By W. D. STRONG
Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
For many years reports of great stone cities with carved monuments located somewhere in the little-known jungle region of the Patuca River have reached the ears of archeologists. Allan Payne, research associate of Johns Hopkins University, organized an expedition under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution to investigate these rumors and to determine whether a hitherto unknown extension of the Maya culture might not be here represented. Norman A. Haskell, a graduate student in geology at Harvard University, financed the work and, with the writer, who was the direct representative of the Smithsonian Institution, accompanied the expedition. The party was in the field from February 2 to July 11, 1933.
The expedition established its base at Puerto Castilla, where we received every possible courtesy and assistance from the various representatives of the United Fruit Company. From this point we proceeded down the coast to Brewers Lagoon. Here a large native dug-out canoe, an outboard motor, and two local assistants were acquired. Thus equipped, we proceeded up the river, which in its alligatorinfested lower reaches is rather wide and flows through a flat terrain covered with dense vegetation. The river playas were crowded with Miskito Indians driven off the Wanks River in Nicaragua by the numerous bandit raids that had been disturbing this hinterland area between Nicaragua and Honduras.
No ruins were encountered until we had passed into the more mountainous regions and reached the mouth of the Wampu, where a very large mound group was discovered at Wankybila, “ the trail to the Wanks,” which river at this place is less than 25 miles distant. We worked our way up the small and rapid Wampu River as far as a Sumu Indian village at Pautarbusna, making collections from these little-known people (figs. 52a and 50) and gathering ethnological data. One small mound was examined, and the vicinity yielded a
few archeological specimens (fig. 52b). Further progress being 1m-
possible in a large dug-out, we returned and proceeded up the Patuca

<<<Page: 54>>>

Fic. 51—Camp on Patuca River at mouth of Yapowas Creek where shark was caught.
Fic. 52.—Artifacts from northeastern Honduras: a, modern Sumu pot from Wanks River (8 inches) ; b, stone stool and mace head from the Wampu River ; c, green stone bowl from mounds at Wankybila.

<<<Page: 55>>>

“IOATY BoNJEg Wosy YeYS JoyeM-ysot—CS “ony
*(soyour F11) OYOURT() JO JOLYSIC, ‘sOoTePY Ue eau puNnoW YyIeo Wosy jod poyureg—TS “dy

<<<Page: 56>>>

to another Sumu village. While fishing here, some 180 miles from salt water, we caught a 4-foot fresh-water shark, the first to be recorded from these rivers (fig. 55). The party divided at this point, Mr. Payne and Mr. Haskell continuing up the Patuca to examine some small mounds on the Cuyamel branch, while I remained at Wankybila to excavate. Assisted by some Miskito Indians, | mapped the large, definitely arranged plaza and earthworks, making trial excavations in four mounds, which proved to be entirely of earth with cores of red, burned clay (figs. 52c, 53). All the pottery obtained from this and other sites on the Patuca, Wampu, and Cuyamel Rivers is of a simple Chorotegan type, and no evidence of Maya occupation was observed. The lower and middle river does not seem to be very promising archeologically, but further work at Wankybila should yield valuable results.
While engaged in this work, considerable excitement was caused by the passage of six men, recognized to be Nicaraguan bandits, who were fleeing from up-river on a raft. They were later arrested on Black River by Honduran officials. On the return of the up-river party we proceeded to the coast.
In June we reached the upper tributaries of the Patuca, having crossed the Cordilleras by mule from Bonito Farm. On this trip of some 400 miles we located about 12 large and hitherto unreported sites, as well as a considerable number of small, rough stone structures. Particularly noteworthy was a rectangular ruin on the Bonito River with stone walls 4 feet high and a front of too feet. The ruin was divided into three rooms, which contained five large stone tables and a walled-in pit. The other large sites were formally arranged earth and stone mounds, often with rough monoliths, plazas, and stone causeways. The pottery samples from these sites were somewhat more complex than those from the lower Patuca but were otherwise similar. From Juticalpa we flew to the beautiful city of Tegucigalpa, where we had the opportunity of rendering thanks in person to the officials of the Honduras Government for their cordial cooperation. Returning to Juticalpa, we examined two mound sites between that town and Catacamas, one of which, near San Marcos, yielded pottery of a more westerly type (fig. 54). Crossing the high, pine-covered country of the Paya Indians we visited these people at Culmi and Carbon (fig. 57). From Carbon we returned to Puerto Castilla over our former route.

<<<Page: 57>>>

‘uogie) }e OJIM pue uv ePARG—ZLS “OILY
“eusnqieyneg Ieou UIUIOM numng—'9s “OT

<<<Page: 58>>>

Newer OLOGCICNe CKUISK AMWONG: THE. BAY ISLANDS OF HONDURAS
By W. D. STRONG Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
During April and May, 1933, the Smithsonian expedition to Honduras made an archeological survey of the Bay Islands. These islands, first visited by Columbus in 1502, have had a very colorful history. Raided by Spanish slave hunters, the haunt of British buccaneers, and the cause of a tense diplomatic situation in which Great Britain, Honduras, and the United States were involved, they now belong to Honduras. Not only beautiful, but with a healthful climate, they are peacefully occupied by a strange mixture of peoples—Spanish, English, Scotch, West Indian Negro, Black Carib, and at least one Turk. The original Indian population, depleted through earlier slave raids, was forcibly removed to Guatemala by the Spanish in 1650. In 1797 the British landed the rebellious Caribs from St. Vincent at Port Royal. Roatan Island, from which place they have spread rapidly along the adjacent mainland. Thus, the islands are a little heterogeneous world quite distinct from the rest of the republic.
Having secured the necessary permits at Coxxen Hole, the capital, named, I believe, after one of the pirates who first sacked Panama City, we skirted the south coast of Roatan. On one of the highest ridges we were so fortunate as to find an untouched Indian offertory shrine. Here hundreds of years ago were deposited broken pottery, small votive pots, stone metates and mullers, celts, mace heads, beautifully chipped knives, and grotesque clay figurines. These were all shuffled together just beneath the present surface in a space about 35 feet in diameter. In the center was a nest of large potsherds arranged in onion-skin layers to protect a central offering. When this covering had been carefully removed, an intact vase was revealed (fig. 62). When this vessel was freed from dirt, it proved to be polychrome in decoration, having an orange slip decorated with a plumed serpent design in black and dark red (fig. 60). Inside were nearly 500 small votive offerings, including copper and shell bells, earplugs, pendants, carved green stone faces with plumed headdresses (fig. 59), and a great variety of stone beads. On the lip of the vessel was a small

<<<Page: 59>>>

Fre. 58.—Wild fig grove, Barburata Island.
Fic. 59.—Greenstone carvings and copper bells, Bay Islands: a-f, Roatan Island offertory; g, Utila.

<<<Page: 60>>>

“(soyour $6) JOAIY BOT, ay Aqs UL TB] TUUIS ‘AIO IOIO purysyT eyeinqieg WOIf ISP A—IO OL] wot, *(sayour Q) pueysyT ur}Jeoy ‘asea dWlO.1YIATO F—0g “OL
WO1} SOSBA JIGIPUL 0} ‘Apassey “9 “WAC sulqured J I a) FO) Gh XG] i daca

<<<Page: 61>>>

stone celt (fig. 62), and nearby were a large number of quartz crystals.
As one stood at this jungle shrine, from which glimpses could be obtained of both shores of the island and of the distant mainland, it was easy to conjure up a picture of the plumed priests and worshippers come to deposit offerings to the mountain gods. The alien nature of certain of these offerings called to mind the Indian traders from the mainland, whom Columbus met at Bonacca Island, and the broken model of a river canoe (fig. 62), placed by the central deposit, furthered the suggestion.
On Helena Island we found two caves next to a gloomy mangrove swamp, one of which had been lived in, whereas the other, marked by a stalagmite of human form, was evidently a shrine. Barburata Island is perhaps the most beautiful of the group (fig. 58), and here we investigated two disturbed shrines. Murat Island gave little promise, but our hasty visit to Bonacca included investigations at a hilltop fort, a sacrificial spring, and a large stone-walled enclosure with mounds and monoliths. Only two days could be spent on Utila, which has many sites; a series of burial grounds with both extended and urn burials and a great living site near the town of [kast Harbor are the most impressive. Of another age is the old buccaneer fort and town at Port Royal on Roatan where broken rum bottles are still being washed up and down by the surf.
As a whole, the material from the islands is surprising. In many things it agrees with the adjacent Chorotegan mainland, but there are also many traits showing more distant connections. Much of the pottery, especially the thin polychrome ware (predominantly from the upper layers), certain greenstone carvings, and the mace heads are more characteristic of the Nicoya Peninsula on the Pacific. The copper bells, stone knives, plumed heads, and some of the ceramics point to the north and west. Particularly striking are a number of vessels closely duplicating, in pottery, the beautiful marble vases from the Uloa Valley (fig. 61). Finally, in lugs and incised decoration on the unslipped pottery are certain Antillean resemblances. As to the ultimate derivation of this rather heterogeneous composite, preliminary study suggests South American rather than northern origins.

<<<Page: 62>>>

Sat ios)
Fic. 63.—Broke states i 3.—Broken metates and other artifacts, Barburata Island offertory.

<<<Page: 63>>>

RESCUING THEE ANE eEiSD © RY Ors iii CALIFORNIA INDIANS
By JOHN P. HARRINGTON Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
Each month that passes is sweeping us farther from good sources of information on the ancient life of the western Indians. After 80 years of overwhelming contact with the Americans, old informants are now being reduced in number faster than ever before—at a truly alarming rate. The customs and languages of these western Indians were intensely diversified locally and reached some of the strangest
peaks of development known to anthropological science. The importance of this information for use in textbooks and comparative studies makes the immediate rescue of the data one of the most desirable ethnological undertakings of the present time.
The Spanish period of history in California left us only one account that deals with the life of the Indians in detail, a remarkable book written by Father Jeronimo Boscana, one of the Franciscan missionaries. Mr. Harrington's field-work during the present calendar year, carried on while on leave of absence from the Bureau of American Ethnology, has been concentrated on getting out a new and thorough publication on the material presented by Father Boscana, and has been attended by remarkable success. Every available source of information has been utilized, the bulk of the notes resulting from interviews with the older Indians. Scores of letters have been written to university professors and others in this country and abroad. Archeological sites have been visited and mapped. Old mission records have been exhaustively studied and copied. Place names have been identified, with the help of mission records and of the oldest informants.
One of the most fruitful sources of information has been a collection of Chinigchinich songs reaching far back into the past. These songs are in a special archaic language. They are at present in the hands of Miss Helen H. Roberts, Institute of Human Relations, Yale University, for transcription into musical notation.
As a result of this study, the person of Chinigchinich, prophet and divinity, is established. He must be considered as one of the greatest religious leaders and founders among the American Indians, second only to the founder of the ghost dance as regards the far spread of his law. When first encountered by Europeans, practically all of the tribes of the southern California coast followed his faith. We shall never

<<<Page: 64>>>

Lo @) we)
22 Vo
‘uoysutsiep] “qd “ 99IY} YPM (SMMUULOI SIPWMDDAY J) OZII1e) JO aqn} & Jo pus 94} Surssnyjd Aq ape ‘oyjotesio OZI1Ie) URIPU]T PIUTOFIeD oATeU e Jo ydeasojoyd ysatq—fg “914
‘soqurAdoy zonbriuezy{, Aq ydersojyoyd ,,}°40L,,
I} se euessog Joye Aq paqisosap suin}sod [PIUOUII199 B UL passaip deTvD Ofa}0S uenf Jory) ArepposI] Om Ole|

<<<Page: 65>>>

know the date of Chinigchinich’s birth because of the blending of mythic elements with the account of his life. We do know, however, the place of his birth: it is a site on the Fred H. Bixby ranch on Alamitos Bay, near Long Beach, Los Angeles County, Calif., and should be marked as one of the most famous sites of aboriginal history. It was there that the Indian leader was born and revealed himself to people, and from there he ascended to heaven.
The notes on the Boscana material are now complete and are in process of final elaboration for publication. Interspersed with the preparation of the Boscana publication other urgent lines of inquiry have been followed, resulting in a large accumulation of valuable notes, texts, and songs.
Fic. 66.—Inscription in cave near Piru, Calif., commemorating the removal from the cave of the rarest cache of ceremonial objects ever discovered in southern California by McCoy Pyle in 1884. The cave was rediscovered by R. F. Van Valkenburgh and J. P. Harrington in the summer of 1933. Photograph by R. F. Van Valkenburgh.
R. F. Van Valkenburgh and the writer discovered near Piru, in Ventura County, Calif., the cave from which, in 1884, McCoy Pyle took a remarkable cache of ceremonial feather objects. Cut on the wall of this cave was found the inscription: ‘““ MAC 1884.” (See fig. 66.)
Every effort was made to obtain data on local customs connected with the use of tobacco. Information was obtained on the use of the carrizo cigarette (fig. 65). This type of tobacco container for smoking was entirely aboriginal. The carrizo cigarette is known in California Spanish as torepa, a word the original of which has been traced to the San Juan Bautista language. Three little sticks the size of matches were inserted in one end of the tube to keep the tobacco from
falling into the mouth.

<<<Page: 66>>>

By FRANCES DENSMORE Collaborator, Bureau of American Ethnology
The study of the music of the American Indians was continued by the writer during 1933. The field selected was the Gulf States, and the purpose of the work, aside from the preservation of songs and gathering data on musical customs, was to ascertain whether a certain period formation of melody was used by tribes in this region. Briefly described, this consists of a long opening period, followed by one or more short periods which are higher in pitch and different in rhythm. The elaborations of the pattern are not of present interest. Previous study had disclosed the use of this pattern in Yuman songs (1922), in songs recorded by Tule Indians from Panama (1924), in songs by Indians from Acoma, Isleta, and Cochiti Pueblos (1928, 1930, 1931), and in songs recorded in 1932 by a Seminole of the northern (Cow Creek) group in Florida, as well as in songs of the southern (Everglades) Seminole, but not in Alibamu songs recorded in Texas (1932). In this season’s field-work it was found among the Choctaw in Mississippi and, again, among the Florida Seminole. The distribution of this melodic pattern suggests former contacts of tribes.
In January the writer visited the Chitimacha Indians who live on Bayou Teche, near Charenton, La. Only 50 members of this tribe survive; a number were interviewed, but all the songs have been forgotten. The chief, Benjamin Paul, remembered hearing his grandmother sing as she dug medicinal herbs, and related legends in which songs were formerly interpolated ; he also related the legend of the origin of the flute. These observations indicate that the old musical customs of the Chitimacha resembled those of other tribes. Numerous specimens of basketry were obtained and many photographs taken, including a picture of an old pirogue on the bayou.
The tribe next visited was the Choctaw, living near Philadelphia, Miss. The first singer was Sidney Wesley, an old medicine man (fig. 67), whose songs were recorded in a windowless cabin (fig. 69). The period formation was heard in the first few songs he recorded and in many of his later songs. The antiquity of his material was shown by a song mentioning antagonism toward the Spanish and French. The tribal ball game was studied with Robert Henry, the leader in the magic to bring success. He recorded its song, which 1s the only Choctaw song accompanied by a drum. It was the custom of

<<<Page: 67>>>

‘atoulsuaq] ssi Aq sydei
“IISUIS B[OUIWAS ‘JAeN}S I[[Ig—gog “DIY
04g ‘Iosuls MeyOY) ‘Asvsa\\ AUPIS—ZQ “DIY

<<<Page: 68>>>

the medicine men to play flutes during a game, each man having two or three flutes of diiferent lengths. Henry recorded the playing of three flutes, one of the instruments being obtained for the National Museum. A large majority of Choctaw dances are without accompaniment and a few are accompanied by striking together two short sticks. Both sorts of dances were witnessed, and the songs recorded by Lysander Tubby, the leader. This is the first time that unaccompanied dancing has been noted. The Choctaw do not use a rattle. Seventy-nine Choctaw songs were recorded in four localities, by five singers. The Choctaw specimens included the “ striking sticks’ used with songs, the implements used in the ball game, a complete woman’s costume,
Fic. 69.—Cabin in which Choctaw songs were recorded. Photograph by Miss Densmore.
an old headband of beaten silver, and numerous examples of basketry and beadwork.
The research among the Florida Seminole was conducted at Brighton, near Okeechobee, where songs were recorded in 1932. Billie Stuart (fig. 68) again recorded songs with the period formation, designating them as “long songs”. Other singers were Billie Bowlegs, grandson of the famous chief of that name, and Susie Tiger, wife of Billie Stuart, who is actively engaged in treating the sick. She recorded five of the songs that she uses in her treatments, one being addressed to a spirit that has supposedly left the body, beseeching it to return. Sixty-eight Seminole songs were recorded, and an old coconut-shell rattle was obtained. Numerous photographs were taken, and the writer visited Billie Stuart’s camp in the cabbage palm region.

<<<Page: 69>>>

a ys fay

<<<Page: 70>>>

| ee ti
: “4 : a] a i i) f A % ; fl : x ’ 7 ’ a. @ 7 é = a!

<<<Page: 71>>>

‘ i a :
Si Oy

<<<Page: 72>>>

Wace iwec bhrel Z4 He

<<<Page: 73>>>



<<<Page: 74>>>



<<<Page: 75>>>

The Lord Baltimore Press

<<<Page: 76>>>

In carrying out its stated purpose, “ the increase and diffusion of knowledge,” the Smithsonian Institution and certain of its branches— namely, the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Astrophysical Observatory, and the Freer Gallery of Art—send out each year a number of field expeditions to collect specimens and data essential to its researches in geology, biology, anthropology, and astrophysics. This new information is eventually published in one of the Institution’s technical series, in connection with the results of the researches ; in this annual pamphlet it is intended merely to present a brief illustrated account of the purpose and results of each of the various expeditions. Again this year, for the sake of economy, it had been necessary to reduce each account to the smallest possible size.
Wee a Rum
Editor, Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 77>>>



<<<Page: 78>>>

PND DO Ca GamOtidiesnOretnesstiimandestarsarc sys sees acess eee. Bishop, C. W. Archeological field-work in China........................ GlnkarATistinmaMnerbutteniies Om vianOlniaws. asses scence ees ae ie. Cooper, G. A. See Warthin, A. S., and Cooper, G. A.
Foshag, W. F. Mineralogical investigations in Mexico....................
Friedmann, Herbert. Explorations of Rey. David C. Graham in Szechwan,
(CHnnRaEY a eee Bhi. ai ca er ares CR ORG Ce NR Gazin, C. Lewis. Fossil hunting in southern Idaho........................ Harrington, John P. Field-work among the Indians of California...........
Hrdlicka, Ales. Archeological excavations on Kodiak Island, Alaska.... Krieger, Herbert W. Salvaging early cultural remains in the valley of the
lkonnaie: AGolliiranl el Toke rie aakids Gnd cn Ge nice Oc DRIES ac Omer Michelson, Truman. The Passamaquoddy Indians of Maine............... Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. A Folsom camp site and workshop............. Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. Indian mounds on Shiloh battlefield............ Schmitt, Waldo L. Hancock Galapagos expedition, 1934................. Smuthe ltueh! Me Zoological collectine: im Siam.........02...0.s0ee 0004 0: Stigling Mes WeeeAncheolosical workin’ Hlorida...-...2-seses+se456--
Strong, William Duncan. Archeological explorations in the country of the
lseistuernat Clatoraakeiclaly " osatocn wis eed Chena oa eactetac aE PONG ae ORS Eee eee Swallen, Jason R. Collecting grasses in northeastern Brazil............... Swanton ohnek. dracine, DesSoto/s route. ss5s4-65se se. sss ee cous ee on
Walker, Winslow M. Excavating ancient Yokuts shellmounds in California. Warthin, A. S., and Cooper, G. A. Devonian studies in southwestern Ontario
evovall INU iWelop eae W alco ciseh ete ae PRIN ERG Ore OTS a Ne ae en RM COICO eg ea

<<<Page: 79>>>

ne ae iy Vina
ae re!
Loar Hi
bina
iy ee rik iksans
Aint
oyun i

<<<Page: 80>>>

SUD S<OP DAE SUN AND STARS By GG ABBOT
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
The main object of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory is to make a daily record of the variations of the sun’s output of radiation. As the earth’s temperature and rainfall, and all life itself, depend on our quota of solar rays, this research is fundamental. Experiments have been carried on for many years by the Smithsonian Institution on high mountains in desert lands where measurements of solar radiation can be made with the least possible interference from the dust, clouds, water vapor, and other constituents of the earth’s atmosphere. These experiments made simultaneously at stations in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres, and separated by thousands of miles, agree in demonstrating small percentage changes in the sun’s output of radiation. Analyses of these variations disclose at least seven regular periodicities coexisting therein, having periods ranging from 7 to 68 months. Based on these periodicities, successful predictions have twice been published for 2 years in advance forecasting the march of the solar variation.
During the past year a great deal of study has been devoted to weather records of the past 50 to 100 years, interpreted in view of the multiplex periodic variation of solar radiation. Inasmuch as the seven solar periodicities discovered are all nearly integrally contained in a common interval of nearly 23 years, it is to be expected that if the solar variation really affects the weather, there may be found in weather a series of numerous features, which, succeeding each other during an interval of 23 years, may be recognized, though of course with some modifications of amplitude and phase in succeeding 23-year intervals. Such indeed seems to be the case, not only with temperature and precipitation, but also with things depending on weather, such as levels of lakes, width of tree rings, catch of fish, and many life cycles. In illustration, the percentage departures from normal precipitation in southern New England, when arranged in eight cycles since the year 1750, yield the following average 23-year curve as given in tabular and graphic form. Every cycle since 1750 presents the same principal phenomenon, namely, a considerable rise of precipitation, culminating at about the twelfth year. It is therefore to be expected that the drought in New England in 1934 will be relieved by increasing precipitation, culminating in high levels about 1943-44.

<<<Page: 81>>>

Percentage Departures from Normal Precipitation in Southern New England during Eight 23-year Cycles
| | | | I aia a 5 6 8 9 | Io 11 | 12] 13 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 19 | 20 | 21 22 23
| —1/+25 —11|+22| +9 —10|—17| —3 +26|+15] —9|—23'—43 Sl 28 |e O|\—14|—25 3) +6) +15 |\—-24|—12| —3} 0|-17,—13] +1) —4|—14| —4 +17|+41|+47 cee qn —5| —7| +4\—26 —17|—23] +10 | | |-29} —8| —4|—17) +6| —7|—10] +2] —4|-16 —9| +6416, +5] —8 +12) +4|+25|+16] +7] —4) +2] (5)
—§|—15| +3] 0|—16)4-26| —2)—14 vale 15) 7-11-14) Oo, —7i—12— 15) —6 | g| —8 (a) | | | | | | | | 243) 913) 3 | +7| —§|—12|-+4-24! +2) +2-+20-410| +6 1/413] —4l+-17) —4) +2) +9) -+22
| Wei
—12] +4] +4/+14|+16|/+18] 4 6)+12) +7) +7, +1) +5! +8 +4/+23) O—10) +4] —2)—13] +9] —2) (+6) | | | | | | | +6|+13/+12/+19 +20 +9|—11| +8/—11| —2 —4 fF 17|4-25| a +7\+18) +7) +4) —1\—10) +1) +2) —11
0) 7A Fl SO eit) SO) 0 —12|-16 2 t 2 al —— 5 byl et Ol OO 23 5 | | |
Mieanl— 9) =-2) (0-2 tn 2) 22a TES ton nal) SO) 5) 3a ie —4 ==] ta)
+10 Ty T T ] |
+8 T a | ° aT t + ~+
+4 t e tL Oo
+2 |-—__p ; zi 0 : : J
-4 7 — HL ai
-10 4 { ir
IBies wt,

<<<Page: 82>>>

MiShe ites aS HAUG acu
1G. 2.—Solar observing station on Mount St. Katherine, Sinai Peninsula.

<<<Page: 83>>>

The solar radiation data on which these weather studies depend are being observed from day to day at three Smithsonian stations, Table Mountain, Calif., Mount Montezuma, Chile, and Mount St. Katherine, near Mount Sinai in Egypt. The last-mentioned station has been in regular operation only since December 1933, but the other two have operated for many years. The desolate character of Mount St. Katherine is well shown in figure 2. Its sole occupants are Field Director Zodtner, with his wife and two small children, and Assistant F. A. Greeley. Although lightened as far as possible by regular work, books, music, radio, and games, the life there is so greatly isolated as to severely tax the cheerfulness of the staff.
The writer and L. B. Aldrich conducted an expedition of 24 months’ duration to Mount Wilson, Calif. Four projects were proposed: A, to improve the solar cooker ; B, to recompare the Smithsonian pyrheliometric scale against the new double-chamber compensation waterflow pyrheliometer ; C, to observe the solar spectrum at great wave lengths ; D, to measure the energy spectra of the hotter stars.
New solar-cooker mirror surfaces of the stainless steel called “Allegheny metal ’’ were obligingly prepared by the Allegheny Company. The great difficulty was to obtain a high polish. But in this they were successful, reaching a reflecting power of about 80 percent. These polished sheets were inserted in the parabolic steel frame and covered by new plate glass. The solar cooker, thus improved, was far more efficient than ever before. Temperatures varying from 160° to 185° C., according to the cloudlessness of the day, were reached in the ovens. Bread was baked and other cooking done daily with great success. Indeed, as the ovens are well protected from loss of heat, it was frequently possible to bake bread at night as well as by day.
Highly exact restandardization of the Smithsonian pyrheliometric solar-radiation scale was effected. A paper describing these experiments has been published. The study of long-wave solar radiation did not reach definitive results. It proves necessary to redesign the spectroscope for this purpose. However, a new test of the kampometer, a highly sensitive radiation measuring instrument, was made. Very high sensibility was actually attained, and the prospect of 50fold further increase is entertained. The observations of the spectral energy curves of the hotter stars were carried out on two nights with the Mount Wilson Observatory roo-inch reflecting telescope, with the cooperation of Dr. Joel Stebbins, who observed with his photoelectric cell. Twenty stars were observed, some as faint as the fifth magnitude, but the results proved disappointing and suggested a modification of the method, which bids fair to be successful.

<<<Page: 84>>>

By W. F. FOSHAG Curator, Division of Mineralogy and Petrology, U. S. National Museum
During previous visits to Mexico I had studied most of the principal mineral deposits of the plateau region and collected much mineralogical material of interest. In the 1934 season’s work, it was planned to visit some of the more outlying districts of northern Mexico and some of the better known districts of the south. During part of the season I was accompanied by Dr. Philip Krieger, of Columbia University.
From Chihuahua City we started westward in a small truck toward the Sierra Madre Mountains of Chihuahua. A stop was made at Cusihuirachic, an important silver camp, and farther west we stopped to investigate the fossil bone beds between Basuchil and Guerrero and to visit the old zinc mines at La Calera.
From Guerrero we went up the Rio Papogochic, over a difficult road seldom traveled by automobiles, and finally to the summit of the continental divide of Mexico. We were now in a region of fine pine forests and open meadows, the home of the Tarahumare Indian. The prevailing rock over broad areas is a light-colored rhyolitic tuff, which forms the walls of the valleys and canyons. At Las Cienegas, horses and mules awaited us to take us to Maguarachic and the barrancas. After we left Las Cienegas, the country became increasingly rugged, the canyons deeper, and the scenery more inspiring. The Sierra Madres are not so much a high mountain range as an elevated plateau cut into an intricate pattern of deep and rugged canyons. Although not so colorful as the Grand Canyon, being clothed in large part with verdure, these canyons (barrancas) approach it in size and even exceed it in extent. In a few hours of riding, one passes from the pine forests of the summits through the live-oak and cactus zones to the river below, where tropical fruits abound. The andesites of the lower slopes of the barrancas are the mother rock of the principal ore veins of this district. The rich silver camp of Maguarachic is situated on the flanks of a narrow barranca, and from the mine one can look down into the main Barranca de Churu, 2,000 feet below. The Barranca de Maguarachic cuts across a number of silver-bearing veins, exposing them to view.

<<<Page: 85>>>

Fic. 3—The Barranca de Churu, Sierra Madre Mountains, Western Chihuahua. These deep canyons are characteristic of this region.
Fic. 4.—The Barreales. Looking from flanks of the Sierra de Los Muertos, across the mud plains to the Banco Lucero. Northern Chihuahua.

<<<Page: 86>>>

Fic. 5.—Popocatepetl, Mexico’s famous volcanic peak. (Photograph by T. Skewes Saunders. )
Fic. 6—Tasco. The first mining by Europeans in the Western Hemisphere was carried on in the hill behind the tree to the right.

<<<Page: 87>>>

We next turned north to Namiquipa and Sabinal, where there are other silver mines, and then north again, following the course of the Rio Santa Maria. The country became increasingly more arid and desolate until at last we reached the Barreales, a forbidding stretch of country, very different in aspect from the pleasant barrancas we had so recently left behind. Instead of deep canyons clad in pines and live-oaks, we saw a flat sun-baked plain, almost devoid of vegetation, a country so level that no water drained from it. Here and there rose from the plain small but rugged mountain ranges of tilted and folded Cretaceous limestone, almost as verdureless as the plain itself. Small intrusions of granitic rock into these limestones formed deposits of gold, silver, and copper. Such a deposit in the Sierra de Los Muertos engaged our attention because of the occurrence of great quantities of garnet and vesuvianite.
In southern Mexico the first district visited was Pachuca, the world’s largest and most productive silver district. There is little about the town of Pachuca to suggest its preeminent standing as a silver camp, for the mining works are hidden away among the hills, back of the town; others are to be found across the crest of the range at Real del Monte. Some of the most productive workings are entirely concealed a thousand feet below fields of corn. A visit underground, however, leaves little doubt that here are mines of importance. Miles of adits and drifts lead in all directions, and along the main haulageways continually pass long trains of heavy ore cars.
A short side trip from Pachuca takes one to El Chico, now less known for its mines than for its beautiful scenery. From the road along the range crest one looks down on the one side on mountain slopes covered with a scant brush or maguey and to Pachuca at its foot; on the other side are deep canyons covered with dense forests of noble evergreens, open alpine glades with scattered hamlets and a profusion of wild flowers. From the canyon walls, above the blanket of forest, rise tall spires and huge rugged masses of volcanic rock.
Leaving Pachuca, | proceeded to Tasco, scene of the first mining by Europeans in the Western Hemisphere. The mines are noted for the richness of their ores and the huge bonanzas that have yielded in years past. Near Tasco are the mercury mines of Huitzuco and Huahuastla, interesting for the occurrences of rare mercury minerals.
After a short visit to the opal mines of Queretaro, and a brief reconnaissance in the eastern part of the state, I returned to Mexico City for the packing and shipping of the collection. Over a ton of material was collected, including not only ores and minerals of scientific importance, but many unusually fine exhibition specimens as well.

<<<Page: 88>>>

FOSSIL HUNTING IN SOUTHERN IDAHO By C. LEWIS GAZIN
Assistant Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Musewn
Continuing the Smithsonian Institution program of fossil collecting in the Snake River basin of Idaho, a party consisting of George F. Sternberg, George B. Pearce, and myself met on May 28 at Bliss, Idaho, and established camp at the old site, which had been occupied by earlier expeditions under Dr. J. W. Gidley and N. H. Boss, across the Snake River from Hagerman and near the Plesippus quarry. The quarry was found to be in bad condition, owing to wind-blown sand and the caving-in of the back wall, and a considerable amount of overburden had to be removed in order to work the bone layer. Harry Hall, a local prospector and experienced miner, was hired to blast out a large section of the back wall, and Richard Clifford with his team and fresno was employed to remove the debris from the quarry. When the blasting was completed, we discovered that the last shot had blown out an unexpected mastodon skull and jaws from a level considerably above the horse bones. We retrieved most of the larger fragments, and it is hoped that we may be able to piece some of them together in the laboratory.
By the first of July the quarry was in such condition that picks, shovels, and scraper were largely replaced by whisk brooms and awls. The exposed surface of the fossil bed was in plan the shape of a crescent about 55 feet between tips and about 18 feet from front to back across the widest portion. The back wall rose from both ends of the cut to a point somewhat over 50 feet higher than the middle of the bone layer. The dump in front of the quarry extended some 50 or 60 feet out from the edge of the bone layer and represented the accumulated debris of three seasons of quarrying in addition to the material moved during the present season. The greater bulk of bone material in the fossiliferous layer was sufficiently concentrated so that it could be taken up in large blocks carefully bound in burlap and plaster of paris. Although a few remains of other animals were found, nearly all of the bones were from the extinct horse, Plesippus shoshonensis Gidley. Included in the skeletal material, some of which is articulated, are about 65 skulls of this animal.

<<<Page: 89>>>

ie) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Fic. 7—Quarry as it appeared after removing some of the overburden and prior to taking up the fossil bones. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg. )
Fic. 8—Removing large plaster-encased blocks of fossil horse bones from the quarry. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

<<<Page: 90>>>

3 miles south of the Plesippus quarry.
Fic. 9.—Remains of three peccaries were taken from this small quarry about

<<<Page: 91>>>

To the south of the quarry along the west side of the Snake River the fossil-bearing formation is well exposed, and considerable time was spent by Pearce and myself, and by Elmer Cook, a local farmer and enthusiastic collector, prospecting for new finds. On these steep, sandy slopes were encountered remains of a variety of animals, most of which were only meagerly represented in the main quarry. Among the mammals now recognized in this fauna are a shrew, a small dog about the size of a coyote, a cat nearly the size of a mountain lion, a small sabre-tooth cat, a large otter and smaller otterlike mustelids, beaver, musk-rat, pocket gopher, ground squirrel, rabbits, ground sloth, mastodon, horse, two species of camel, peccary, an antilocaprid, and deer. In addition to the mammals are a variety of birds, turtle, snakes, frog, and fish.
Excellent material was obtained of several mammalian types heretofore represented only by fragmentary specimens. Particular mention may be made of the skeletal remains of three peccaries discovered by Pearce, an adult and two young huddled together almost as in Iife. Two of the skeletons, the adult and one of the immature specimens, may be complete. These will form an interesting addition to the exhibition hall. A short distance from the peccary quarry a mastodon skull was located in a difficultly accessible place. The problem of getting the specimen out of the quarry was met only by building a wide, low-gradient trail some distance along the slope and dragging the plaster encased block with a team to a point where it could be reached by truck.
When collecting in the vicinity of Hagerman was concluded and the 7-ton collection packed and shipped, Sternberg, Pearce, and | traveled westward to a region of exposures near the Snake River in Owyhee County. Our first stop was at the Bruneau River, and an investigation was made of the deposits exposed in that valley and in adjacent Little Valley. Except for remains of fossil fish, principally cyprinid, little material was observed in these areas. We then moved on to the country west of Grand View and prospected at various localities as far as Sinker Creek, with only meager results. Fragmentary remains of land mammals were observed in beds exposed along the lower portion of Sinker Creek and in sediments beneath the capping rock of the more easterly of the Castle Buttes, but not in sufficient abundance to warrant spending any considerable time. After
a week’s prospecting the field-work was terminated at Mountain Home on August 23.

<<<Page: 92>>>

By ALS) WARTEMN Vassar College AND CyA EOOR EPR
Assistant Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, U. S. National Museum
The problem undertaken by the writers this past field-season was the establishment of a correlation or agreement between the middle Devonian (Hamilton) strata outcropping on the southeastern shore of Lake Erie in New York, similar sediments in southeastern Ontario, and the limestones and shales of Alpena and Presque Isle Counties in northeastern Michigan. In planning the work it was decided to start in southwestern Ontario because each writer already had a knowledge of the New York section. The object then, was the recognition of the strata of Lake Erie in Ontario, and then the identification of the Ontario section in Michigan.
Such correlations as the ones accomplished by the writers are made by studying the fossils occurring in a stratum and then finding an identical or similar assemblage elsewhere. It is not always possible to find identical species over wide areas because animals vary in different parts of a sea. Therefore assemblages approximating each other in distant parts of the same sea may be taken as equivalent.
Two natural difficulties have always impeded stratigraphic work in Ontario and Michigan. One of these is the lack of outcrops and the other a perplexing lateral shift or change in the composition of the sediments. Alpena County, Mich., and southwestern Ontario not long ago were under the Pleistocene ice sheet, which laid over these regions a generous cover of drift. This heavy drift cover combined with a very low topography is responsible for the poor exposures. In spite of these difficulties a nearly complete Devonian column was constructed in Michigan. The labors of other geologists had already established a good sequence in Ontario.
In Ontario the middle Devonian consists chiefly of soft shale containing thin bands of limestone. About one-third of the thickness of the section above the base there is a hard band of gray limestone overlain by a coral bed 4 feet in thickness. These two bands contain fossil assemblages which can be readily identified in New York, in

<<<Page: 93>>>

Fic. 10.—Hamilton fossils from Ontario and Michigan. 5, 7, Sg eanGse los crinoids, Michigan; 10, 11, 14, 15, Eleutherocrinus, a rare blastoid, < 2, Ontario; 1, 2, 8, 9, brachiopods, Michigan; 6, peculiar snail, Ontario; 3 and 4, trilobite, < 2, Michigan.

<<<Page: 94>>>

Fic. 11.—Hamilton fossil from Michigan. Head of Prismatophyllum. 1 shows upper surface, 2 lower surtace.

<<<Page: 95>>>

the vicinity of East Bethany, not far southeast of Batavia. These beds serve as a sure tie between the two regions.
In Michigan the proportion of limestone to shale greatly increases over that in Ontario. Despite this lateral shift of lithology it is possible to recognize the coral bed of Ontario in the Michigan section. Here the bed is considerably thicker than in Ontario, and there is a greater predominance of colonial corals over solitary corals. However, the same coral types occur in both regions together with peculiar kinds of other fossils characteristic of the coral bed in Ontario and Michigan. By means of this correlation it was determined that the Michigan section is approximately equivalent to the two middle formations of the New York middle Devonian (Hamilton) group of rocks.
On the basis of observations made during the summer it is possible tentatively to reconstruct a little of the ancient geography of the Devonian seas. It is thought that New York, Ontario, Michigan, and the surrounding country were covered by a shallow sea. But in early Hamilton time a land or shoal of considerable proportions was elevated on the site of Lake Erie, Ohio, Indiana, and southern Michigan. The coral plantations of the coral bed alluded to above fringed this low land or shoal. In Michigan colonial corals of the genus Prismatophyllum formed huge heads as much as 50 feet in height. These were not connected to form a single reef but made innumerable large mounds on the sea bottom. These reefs or “ bioherms””’ reflect themselves in the topography about Alpena and along the Thunder Bay River in small conical hills. On the margins of the coral masses a variety of other creatures lived. Crinoids, or sea lilies, were particularly abundant.
Ontario and Michigan are two of the finest collecting grounds in this country. Glens and river banks or cliffs in southwestern Ontario yield fine fossils. The soft blue shales or soapstones common in both regions break down to a tenacious clay. From the clay free fossils are washed out by each rain. At Rockport, in the northeastern corner of Alpena County, and on the outskirts of the city of Alpena there are huge limestone quarries. From these large quantities of clay have been stripped and thrown over the surface of the ground near the quarries. The clays have disintegrated and are now a never-ending source of beautiful fossils. Crinoids and blastoids of large size and beauty are present in exciting quantities. There is probably no known Devonian locality more productive of fossil sea lilies. Many fine specimens were collected during the season, and many of the species are new to science.

<<<Page: 96>>>

HANCOCK GALAPAGOS EXPEDITION, 1934 By Wie) Ori SC EUViTana:
Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Musean
During the early part of 1934 it was my good fortune again to accompany Capt. G. Allan Hancock’s expedition on the Cruiser Velero III to the Galapagos Islands and the adjacent coast of South America. This, my second trip in successive years with Captain Hancock to these islands, was even more enjoyable and more successful scientifically than the first one. I left Washington on December 24, 1933, and on December 30 we sailed from San Pedro, Calif. This year the scientific staff was augmented by the presence of Dr. C. McLean Fraser, University of British Columbia, interested in hydroids; Dr. Wm. Randolph Taylor, University of Michigan, who collected algae ; and Dr. Harold W. Manter, University of Nebraska, who studied the trematode parasites of fish.
During the cruise of 1933 chief emphasis was laid on shore collecting and the intertidal zone. This year dredging was given first place in our scheme of invertebrate studies, not only to supplement the collections of last year, but also to carry our investigation of the crustacean fauna down to depths intermediate between the shore and the edge of the continental shelf, more or less arbitrarily set at the 10ofathom line, and to provide at the same time hydroids for Dr. Fraser and algae for Dr. Taylor.
Iextended dredging operations produced even richer collections than were obtained last year. This was made possible by the new and additional equipment designed by W. Charles Swett, executive officer on board, and provided by Captain Hancock for the use of the scientific staff of the expedition. One of the ship’s two 24-foot motor whaleboats had been converted into a dredge boat by the installation forward of a specially built dredging winch carrying over 300 fathoms of steel cable, and aft of a stout platform with shear legs for landing the dredge net and contents for convenient sorting.
Thus we were enabled to explore depths unattainable the previous year and make profitable return trips to localities where shallow water collecting had been done on the preceding cruise. One hundred and six dredging stations were occupied in the course of the expedition.
The cruise carried through an ambitious program. Our first collecting was done in Braithwaite Bay, Socorro Island. A day was spent

<<<Page: 97>>>

Fic. 12.—Point Christopher, Albemarle Island. The scenery is of such barren, volcanic nature that we immediately named it ‘* The Valley of the Moon.”
Fig. 13.—Marine iguanas, Albemarle Island. (Photograph by C. McLean Fraser.)
Fic. 14.—Pinnacle rock, Sulivan Bay, James Island. Here is some of the most beautiful scenery to be found in all the islands. (Photograph by H. W. Manter. )

<<<Page: 98>>>

Fic. 15.—A baby tortoise is posed on the back of a veteran. (Photograph by C. McLean Fraser.)
Fic. 16.—Dredge boat at work. (Photograph by H. W. Manter.)

<<<Page: 99>>>

at Clarion Island and the end of the Revillagigedo group, where the new dredging equipment proved most successful. Dredging was attempted at Clipperton Island, but was abandoned because of rough weather and unfavorable bottom. The weather also prevented our landing on this lonely, low-lying, atoll.
January 11, 1934, found us at Wenman Island, our first stop in the Galapagos. This island, the second most northerly of the group, is a veritable bird refuge, being densely populated with nesting boobies and frigate birds. It had not heretofore been visited by Captain Hancock.
Several days were spent on Charles Island, the home of three groups of so-called “ nature lovers,” who have gone there to escape the conventions of civilization. They were prospering in their several ways. Their gardens were in better shape and more productive than they had been previously, and their homes were much improved. Though healthy and in good spirits, they appeared, however, to have aged a half dozen years in the one year since our last visit. Collecting at Charles Island was better than the year before, tides being more favorable and dredging equipment better. The best algal collections were made here, and our first porpoise was captured in Post Office Bay.
At Academy Bay, Indefatigable Island, | obtained two small living tortoises, as well as shells and skins of two just hatched the week before our arrival. One of the two living specimens is one of the only two so far known whose exact hatching date is known. The second one is the property of Captain Hancock. Both animals are prospering at this date (December 1934) and have about trebled their original weight.
Amoebic dysentery was found raging in the colony on Chatham Island, and therefore we remained only long enough to make a few dredge hauls. Sulivan Bay, on the east side of James Island, proved to be the most picturesque and most strikingly colored bit of volcanic scenery of all the anchorages we made in the course of 2 years.
Both dredging and shore collecting were good at Hood Island, and by stopping there we were able to make one of the major discoveries of the expedition. We found that the Hood Island tortoises are apparently reestablishing themselves on that island. Since 1853 but five specimens have been taken there—three by the California Academy of Sciences expedition in 1905 and 1906, and two by the Pinchot expedition in 1929. Captain Hancock was able to obtain over a dozen specimens from some Chatham Island natives he found encamped on the beach. These men reported that the tortoises were rather plentiful but poorly nourished. The Hood Island tortoises have, since the days

<<<Page: 100>>>

of Pacific whaling, been considered very rare, and it is encouraging to know that their numbers may now be definitely on the increase. Two of the specimens taken by Captain Hancock have been presented to the National Zoological Park.
On the way from Hood Island to Guayaquil, Ecuador, stops were made every 100 miles for the purpose of taking water samples and serial temperatures in order to complete a section of the Humboldt current in this vicinity.
Fic. 17—Only perfect specimen known of the rare porpoise, Prodelphinus graffmant Lonnberg, Gorgona Island, Colombia. (Photograph by W. Chas. Swett. )
For three days we were anchored in the Guayas River, off Guayaquil, after which we worked northward toward Panama, making stops at La Libertad, Punta Santa Elena, and San Francisco Bay, Ecuador ; and at Gorgona Island, Cabita Bay, and Port Utria, Colombia. A particularly fine collection of hydroids was made at La Libertad ; two bats and a second porpoise were taken at Gorgona Island.
February 16 to 19 was spent at Balboa, Panama, where members of the party visited the local orchid gardens maintained by the Missouri Botanical Gardens, Dr. Zetek, and the Barro Colorado Laboratory.
Leaving Panama, we stopped at Jicaron Island and Bahia Honda, Panama; Port Culebra, Costa Rica; Tangola-Tangola, White Friars

<<<Page: 101>>>

Island; Petatlan Bay, Tenacatita, Isabel Islands; a great bird rock and scene of operations of a considerable shark fishery conducted by a number of natives from Teacapan on the mainland, Santa Maria Bay, Thurloe Point, and Cerros Island, Mexico.
March 12 and 13 were spent in San Diego, Calif., where I visited the Zoological Park and Scripps Institution of Oceanography.
As Dr. Mary J. Rathbun, Associate of the Smithsonian Institution, has in advanced state of completion a comprehensive monograph of the Oxystome and allied crabs of America, special attention was given this year to obtaining representatives of these forms, while not neglecting the collection of the other groups of crustacea, in order that her account of these crabs might be as complete as possible for the Galapagos and the west coast of America. That the Hancock expeditions have once again rendered signal service to science has been most emphatically demonstrated by the preliminary survey which Miss Rathbun has made of the Oxystome crab material turned over to her by Captain Hancock for study. Nine new species have been discovered in the collection, among them the first examples of the genus /liacantha to be taken from the Pacific shores of America, a genus heretofore known only from the Atlantic and there represented by five species.
The porpoises collected represent two species recently described from very imperfect and incomplete specimens. Those taken by us are the only complete specimens extant.
Among the snakes obtained by the expedition were to living specimens of sea snakes, Pelamydrus platurus (Linnaeus), from off the coast of Colombia, exceedingly poisonous, exclusively marine forms that prey upon small fish. Their color pattern is a striking one, broad longitudinal bands for the most part of brilliant orange or yellow, and intense black, broken up on the tip of the tail into a sharply defined mottling of these same colors. On Clarion Island, Mexico, a specimen of Coluber anthonyi Stejneger, not common in museum collections, was obtained.
With the docking of the Velero III at San Pedro was ended another successful cruise to the Galapagos Islands. To Captain Hancock and his associate, Mr. Swett, must go the gratitude of the scientific staff for the opportunity afforded of accompanying the expedition, and for the invaluable equipment provided which made possible the noteworthy collections brought together from the region explored.

<<<Page: 102>>>

By HERBERT FRIEDMANN
Curator, Division of Birds, U. S. National Museum
The Reverend David C. Graham has continued his zoological collecting in Szechwan as time and opportunity permitted, and made one important journey solely in this connection. For the following brief account of this trip and of some of the resulting collections, I have been guided by Dr. Graham’s diary covering the period in question.
Leaving his home at Chengtu on July 16, 1933, he proceeded northwestward along the Min River to its junction with the To at Weichow. There he followed the To westward as far as Ka Gu, where he struck off away from the To valley into the highlands of Mu-Sang-Tsai, to Bu-Lan-Tsen and to a little beyond O-Er. To the northwest of O-Er, Graham collected at altitudes ef as much as 15,300 feet, much higher than he had ever done previously. From this camp he retraced his steps to Bu-Lan-Tsen and Mu-San-Tsai, thence to the To River at Dung-Men-Wai. Here he turned westward and followed the river as far as Tsa-Gu-Law, arriving there on August 21. The collecting proving disappointing, and his time drawing to a close, Graham turned eastward the next morning and retraced his steps along the valley of the To to Weichow, and thence along the Min River to Chengtu, where he arrived on September 1. A few extracts from his diary may serve to present glimpses of the trip.
The second day out from Chengtu he ran into that great curse to travelers in western China—the intermittent and rather formless civil warfare. The road he was traversing followed the north bank of the Min. “ The 24th Army occupies the south bank. They fired three times at us near the city, and twice about 5 miles above the city. I left by the west gate and ran the gauntlet first and got clear past before the firing began. None of us was injured.”
After leaving the valley of the To, the roads became increasingly worse and in some places were more theoretical than real. The difficulties of travel were lightened by an amusing, though, at the time, probably annoying, incident with a mule, which may be quoted in Graham’s own laconic, matter-of-fact language.
““T was to ride a 20-year-old mule, .. . . After I had ridden a short distance I got off and invited the collector, Mr. Pen, to ride awhile. He got on.

<<<Page: 103>>>

Fic. 18.—The modernized streets of Suifu, Szechwan, China. (Photograph by D. C. Graham. )
Fic. 19.—A U-shaped valley, an old glacial bed, near Tatsienlu, Szechwan, China. (Photograph by D. C. Graham.)

<<<Page: 104>>>

Fic. 20.—The Ningyuen Road, on a high mountain where there is constant danger from Lolos, Szechwan, China. (Photograph by D. C. Graham.)
Fic. 21.—View on the China-Tibetan border. (Photograph by D. C. Graham. )

<<<Page: 105>>>

“ Now, that old mule has always been led by a coolie when it was ridden. But Mr. Pen naturally decided that a coolie to lead was unnecessary, and dismissed temporarily the coolie. Very soon the mule started off on a gallop for Kuanshien, and Mr. Pen couldn’t control him. He ran a long way before he was stopped. Then Mr. Pen refused to ride any more, and the mule refused to be led by the coolie. Meanwhile, I had gone on quite a distance. Mr. Pen decided that the mule hadn’t eaten enough grass that morning, and told the coolie to let the mule eat grass awhile, and that after he had eaten plenty he would no doubt be more easily led. Then he went on and left the coolie alone with the mule. The coolie did not catch up with the mule until dinner time.”
On another occasion the party experienced a severe earthquake lasting about 4 minutes, but escaped without injury or loss.
Dr. Graham has described some of his experiences in the highlands at O-Er in a manuscript report sent to the Smithsonian Institution, part of which is quoted here.
“On August 8 I left the collectors at O-Er and joined Mr. Torrance at Dong-Men-Wai. Together we went to Gieu-Tsi-T’en, a Chiang village which is the home of the hereditary Ch’iang chieftain Yang Shioh Bi. We were entertained in the home of the chieftain; on the second night the people performed a folk dance which was very interesting. Men and women did not dance in pairs. Men danced in unison, singing as they danced. Then the women repeated the same words and danced in the same way. Near the end the performers showed their good will by making up songs that were complimentary to the foreign guests. One of the verses ran thus: ‘ Mr. Graham has endured great hardship in coming to this place. When he returns home, may he become wealthy.’
“On August 12 I returned to O-Er, and the next day started on a hunting trip to the high mountains. I hoped to bag some big game. On the first day we passed far beyond the last human habitation, over a road that was so bad that we often had to get down and crawl on our hands and knees in order to travel at all. The next day the road was even worse, but in the afternoon we reached our destination and pitched our tents at the elevation of 12,500 feet. All around us were mountains reaching the altitude of 17,000 feet. The mountainsides were covered with dense forests, or with stretches of wild grass and flowers. Patches of snow could be seen. On the next day, with two Cl’iang guides, I climbed up the mountain to a cave whose elevation is 14,100 feet. We slept in this cave that night, with a fire in its mouth to keep us warm. Next morning we rose early and climbed to

<<<Page: 106>>>

(weyeiny “) ‘q Aq ydersojoyg) “eulyy UBMYDIZS ‘ORIYD) SUI NYT puke OL VT UssMjoq UI UeNnz 19,7 94} JO doz 9y} Avau ‘YyNOSs SuTyOO] ‘Mal A—EZ “OY
‘JV -q Aq ydessojoyg ) sojiul OZ yNoqe ADANY
(cureyein ‘eUIYD ‘URMYDAZS ‘HyING saoqe DTN 2 Oe Saco Shel

<<<Page: 107>>>

the altitude of 15,300 feet. There were plenty of tracks of wild animals, but hunters had recently been there, and no wild animals were to be seen. However, I secured some rare butterflies, flies, and bees at an altitude of 15,200 feet. During the next few days our food supply became very low, and we kept from the state of semistarvation by eating wild celery, three kinds of wild onions, wild cherries, wild strawberries, and wild pheasants.
“ Near our camp was the smallest glacier, and the lowest in altitude, that I have heard of in West China. Although the snow never melts away, its length is only a few hundred feet, and its altitude is 13,500 feet above sea level.
‘On the morning of August 17 I returned to O-Er, and that afternoon joined some natives in a bear hunt. A big black bear was ravaging the corn crops at night and hiding in a nearby forest during the day. A party of hunters surrounded the forest, and a few of their number went through the forest throwing great stones and shouting very loudly. They succeeded in driving the bear to within 300 yards of the place where I was waiting. My first shot missed, but the second went clear through his head, and the big beast rolled down the mountainside like a great black ball. It took four men to carry him on level ground, and six or eight to carry him up the mountain to our camp.”
The most important results of the expedition are the large mammals collected. Many of them, such as the giant panda (Ailuropus melanoleucus), the golden-haired monkey (Jthinopithecus roxellanae), the blue sheep (Pseudois nayaur szechuenensis), the takin (Budorcas tibetana), the Chinese red wolf (Cuon rutilans), and the horse-tailed deer (Rusa unicolor dejeant) are extremely rare in collections and very difficult to obtain, as they live in inaccessible spots. Most of them were obtained by Li Song Ting, an aboriginal Wa Si collector. A very scarce wildcat (Felis temminckti dejeani) was among the prizes of the collection.
Fewer birds were obtained than in previous years, but those that were collected are of great interest. A peculiar genus of babbling thrush (Cholornis), hitherto unrepresented in the national collections, was obtained. This bird is remarkable for the rudimentary condition of the inner toe, being almost a three-toed, instead of a four-toed, bird. A little-known woodpecker was also obtained. Insects and other groups of animals were assiduously collected as in previous years

<<<Page: 108>>>

By HUGH M. SMITH Adviser and Expert in Fisheries to His Siamese Majesty's Government, and Associate in Zoology, U. S. National Musewm
At the beginning of 1934 collecting was in progress in the extensive mountain area known as Kao Soi Dao, in the district of Trang, Peninsular Siam, where during the years 1896, 1897, and 1899 Dr. W. L. Abbott had made large collections for the National Museum. Among the birds obtained was a rare screech owl (Otus sagittatus), apparently new to Siam, originally described from Malacca in 1848 and not previously represented in the Museum.
In February the headwaters of the Pasak River were visited for the first time, and numerous specimens of birds, fishes, and other animals were obtained, including a purple finch (Carpodacus murati) new to Siam. Fans made from the wings and tails of peacock pheasants were obtained from native hunters, but none of the birds were met with. The upper Pasak valley is a very wild region abounding in big game and well worthy of the protracted attention of zoologists. In the mountain jungles lying to the north and west of the headwaters there roam a few remnants of the most retiring and least known of the primitive tribes of Siam, the Ka Tong Luang, or Savages of the Yellow Leaf, so called by the Siamese in allusion to their crude shelters of leafy boughs which are abandoned as soon as the leaves turn yellow. These people are very shy and seldom seen, but sometimes they barter with the Laos, without, however, showing themselves, depositing honey, skins, and other jungle produce at certain spots in the forest and receiving salt, tobacco, and iron in exchange.
In March a small collection of birds and mammals was obtained along the east branch of the Meklong, in central Siam; and in April, May, and June the Pakjong district of eastern Siam and the Sriracha section of southeastern Siam were revisited.
A rugged mountainous district lying northeast of Chiengmai in northern Siam, which had yielded interesting zoological material in previous years, was again the scene of collecting activities during August and September ; the special peaks where camps were pitched were Doi Phra Chao and Doi Hua Mot, the last reaching a height of nearly 6,000 feet. Noteworthy birds obtained were a gray bulbul

<<<Page: 109>>>

Fic. 24—Lawa women, North Siam. The Lawa belong to the Mon-Khmer stock, live in isolated mountain villages, and from early times have been smelters of iron. These women had never confronted a camera.
Fic, 25.—Collective fishing by women in a canal in Central Siam. Interesting fishes and crustaceans are often obtained from such a source.

<<<Page: 110>>>

Fic. 26.—Characteristic water-buffalo cart, Southeastern Siam. This kind of vehicle proved very useful in transporting collecting outfit and camp equipment.
Fic. 27.—Sawfish (Pristis) from Southeastern Siam. This species reaches a large size and is frequently entangled in the fishermen’s nets.

<<<Page: 111>>>

32 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (Cerasophila thompsoni), previously represented in the museum collection by a single specimen taken several years before in the same region; a warbler (Abroscopus albogularis), the second record for Siam, the first having come from the same mountain in a previous year ; and two examples of a grosbeak (Mycerobas melanoxanthus), heretofore known from Siam from a single specimen. Among the mammals collected were a Tibetan bear, a species which many people regard as the most dangerous of the jungle mammals of Siam, and a binturong, a large aberrant cat with a prehensile tail.
A large series of fresh-water and marine fishes, assembled by the writer, was presented to the National Museum by the Siamese Department of Fisheries. This collection includes genera and species not previously represented in the Museum, and serves to show the great variety attained in Siam by the catfishes, carps, gobies, and other families. The collection illustrates also the peculiar structural and functional adaptations which many of the fresh-water fishes have acquired in order to meet adverse physical conditions; prominent among these adaptations are the incubation of eggs in the mouth of the male parent and the breathing of atmospheric air.
Zoological collecting for the Museum, which had been going on continuously since 1923, was brought to a close in October 1934.

<<<Page: 112>>>

Curator, Division of Echinoderms, U. S. National Musewmn
Tidewater Virginia, with its historical associations, a northern continuation of the great southern coastal plain, the piedmont section, the beautiful Blue Ridge, the Shenandoah Valley, and farther west the Allegheny Mountains, all combine to make Virginia one of the most interesting, as well as one of the most beautiful of all our States. The unusual diversification of its terrain is reflected in an exceptional diversification of its plants and animals that is well brought out by a study of its native butterflies. Many southern butterflies range north along the coastal plain, and northern types go southward in the mountain districts.
Our knowledge of Virginian butterflies, however, is very 1ncomplete, and is derived from many widely scattered sources. Butterflies from Virginia are mentioned in about 80 different books and articles. The common yellow swallowtail was figured as long ago as 1634, and between 1770 and 1836 many records from the State were published. The number of species recorded from the State, including my personal notes, is 118. My notes include mention of 93, of which 6 are not otherwise recorded. Of the 118, 11 are erroneously recorded, leaving a total of 107 species definitely known to live in Virginia. But some of these as yet are unrecorded.
In the course of a detailed survey of the butterflies of Virginia, I have visited 54 of the 100 counties and noted the conditions in them. At the end of July Mrs. Clark and I spent a week on Apple Orchard Mountain, in Bedford County, where we obtained representatives of
2 of the local species. Among these were some specimens of the large and handsome Argynnis diana, the largest and finest of all the fritillaries. Mrs. Clark found that the males of this butterfly have an unusually strong odor resembling that of wild roses, though it is slightly more spicy. We also captured Polygonia progne, which is common at higher altitudes in the mountains.
We had hoped to find here the “ white admiral” (Basilarchia arthemis albofasciata), but in this we were unsuccessful. The National Museum possesses a fine pair of this form captured by the late Col. Wirt Robinson in nearby Nelson County, a magnificent female (fig. 29) taken on July 28, 1919, and a smaller male without date.

<<<Page: 113>>>

Fic. 28—Enodia portlandia, 2, Virginia Beach, Va., September 24, 1934.
Left, upper surface ; right, under surface.
Fic. 20.—Basilarchia arthemis albofasciata, 2, Nelson County, Va., Col. Wirt Robinson, July 28, 1910.

<<<Page: 114>>>

Fic. 30—Charis virginiensis, 3, Virginia Beach, Va., September 24, 1034. Left, upper surface; right, under surface. > 15.
Fic. 31.—Strymon ontario ontario, d, Meramec State Park, Mo., Harold I. O’Byrne, June 2, 1933. Left, upper surface; right, under surface. 14. One of the rarest and least known of our eastern butterflies. There is one record from Virginia.

<<<Page: 115>>>

September 23 and 24 we spent in Princess Anne County, hoping there to rediscover some of the species recorded by Pieter Cramer in 1779 and 1782, by Godart in 1819, and by Boisduval and Le Conte in 1829-1833. Our list from Princess Anne County numbers 31 species. We succeeded in securing a single Catopsilia eubule var. sennae, and good series of Charis virginiensis, Cercyonis alope pegala, Neonympha gemma, and N. sosybius, together with about 30 specimens of Enodia portlandia (fig. 28).
One of the most interesting, as well as one of the rarest, of the butterflies found in Virginia is an inconspicuous little skipper (Pyrqus centaureae) of which the National Museum possesses a specimen, in the Barnes collection, taken at Blacksburg, Montgomery County, on April 19, 1900. This little butterfly is found in the mountains of Scandinavia, in the Altai Mountains, in Labrador, Quebec, and Ontario, and at more or less high altitudes from northern British Columbia southward to the high peaks of Colorado. It is also found, in small numbers, from scuthern New York southward to North Carolina.
Some Virginian butterflies, as the common little blue (Lycaenopsis argiolus pseudargiolus) and the yellow swallowtail (Papilio glaucus) appear in early spring in a form almost or even quite identical with that found in Alaska and in the far north generally, though later in the year they are quite different.
Two of the commonest of the local butterflies have appeared only in relatively recent years. One of these, the cabbage butterfly (Pieris rapae) was introduced from Europe. The other, the orange clover butterfly (Colias eurytheme), is an intruder from the West that now appears to be thoroughly established.
Another very different kind, the curious long-snouted butterfly (Libyihea bachmanit), is sometimes very common locally, and sometimes rare or absent. It seems to be an erratic, though a frequent, visitor from the southwest.
One of the most conspicuous and energetic of Virginia’s butterflies (Catopsilia eubule) is found in spring mainly or exclusively in the lower regions near the sea, but during the summer it extends its range over a large portion of the State. In the late summer it is seen in some localities always to fly in a definite direction, though in others it simply wanders about irregularly.
Another conspicuous and abundant kind, the common milkweed butterfly (Danais plexippus), also in some regions flies always in a definite direction, at least at certain seasons, though in other regions it seems to wander aimlessly.

<<<Page: 116>>>

COMEECTING (GRASSES, IN NORTHEASTERN BRAZIL 3y JASON R. SWALLEN
Section of Grasses, U. S. National Museum
In South America there are many regions whose floras are very inadequately known in spite of numerous expeditions which have been sent out to make collections. This is partly due to the tremendous areas to be covered and partly to the difficulties encountered and the time required to reach the more inaccessible places. One of the least known is that of northeastern Brazil, including the states of Maranhao, Piauhy, Ceara, and Rio Grande do Norte. For the purpose of studying and collecting the grasses, the author spent nearly 6 months in 1934 traveling across this territory, from the Tocantins River to Natal.
With the exception of Maranhao and a few mountainous places in Ceara, the region is subject to severe periodic droughts, sometimes lasting for several years. During these times the people flock to the larger towns as the water and their meager food supplies are exhausted. But as soon as the rains come again they scatter back to their homes, hoping for a better year. Fortunately there was plenty of rain this year, so that the vegetation was in an ideal condition for collecting.
Starting from Sao Luis, Maranhao, about the middle of February, I proceeded by train as far as Caxias. This town is a shipping point for large quantities of cotton, one of the principal agricultural products of the state, and the site of several textile factories. A line drawn across the state at this point roughly divides it into two distinct parts as far as the vegetation is concerned. The northern part is largely forest, resembling the Amazon jungle, and the southern part is “ sertao.” This term is used by the inhabitants to indicate the dry lands of the interior usually characterized by a rather sparse growth of low scrubby trees with a ground cover composed primarily of grasses but with some sedges and a variety of small flowering plants as well. It includes also the extensive nearly treeless grasslands.
A few years ago automobile roads were constructed along a number of the chief routes of travel. However, owing to lack of use, many of them have gradually been covered by the encroaching vegetation. It was necessary, then, to arrange nearly all transportation by mule,

<<<Page: 117>>>

YUM pateAoo A, “BABIZ) UTIYIOU UT Sued XBM UPRTIZeIq—ze “DIY

<<<Page: 118>>>

Fic. 34.—Mountains of bare rock, common in central Ceara near Quixada. It is in this region that long droughts occur periodically.
Fic. 35.-—Assahy palms along one of the waterways on Maraio Island, Para. At the source of these rivers are extensive wet savannas which are frequently entirely covered with water during the rainy season.

<<<Page: 119>>>

as it was seldom that any other kind was available. Although rather slow, this method made critical collecting much easier than would have been possible by any faster means.
The route followed was westward from Caxias to Porto Franco on the Tocantins River by way of Barra do Corda and Grajaht. The next stage, to Carolina, was made by a large motor boat that makes regular trips from Carolina to Alcobaca, the end of the rapids. From Carolina I recrossed the state of Maranhao, going through Riachao and San Antonio de Balsas. This part of the trip was by far the most profitable because the trail passed through extensive grasslands which contained many new or previously little-known species.
The shortest way to Ceara was to go down the Balsas and Parahyba Rivers to Floriano, Piauhy, and thence overland to Crato, Ceara. I wanted to make this journey as quickly as possible in order to have plenty of time to collect in Ceara before the end of the rainy season.
As Ceara is in one of the geologically oldest regions of South America, one would expect to find more species than in one of more recent origin. This is not the case, however. The grasses are comparatively few in number of species and these are found rather commonly throughout the state. Annuals predominate, owing probably to the long periods of drought, which make it impossible for any except the most hardy species to survive.
After a month in Ceara, 2 weeks was spent in Rio Grande do Norte. Cotton is grown here in large quantities in the lowlands along the rivers. Aside from these bottom lands, the soil is sterile and rocky and unfit for agriculture. Along the east coast are large sand hills, the flora of which differs considerably from that of the rest of the state.
A number of species which have been collected on the lower Amazon are still known by only a single collection, sometimes represented in the herbarium by only a fragment from the type specimen. For several weeks in January and again in June and July I collected in this area in an attempt to obtain additional material of some of these species. Localities visited included Para, Mount Alegre, Santarem, Obidos, and Fordlandia or Boa Vista on the Tapajos River.
During the entire trip about 8,000 specimens were obtained.

<<<Page: 120>>>

By Ge We BISHOP Associate Curator, Freer Gallery of Art
The present article is a brief outline of the work done by the Freer Gallery Field Expedition to China during the period January 1930 to March 1934, when it returned to the United States.
Upon arrival in Peiping (Peking), I devoted considerable time to a study of the work done by the Chinese portion of the field staff during the previous year, when, in conjunction with the Academia Sinica, a Chinese Government institution, they began the excavation of a Shang Dynasty site (late second millennium B.C.) in Honan province. Later in the spring of 1930 I participated, at the invitation of the University of Nanking, in the excavation of certain tombs near Nanking, of the sixth century A. D. Although plundered long ago, these yielded, before the rainy season put a stop to our work, not a little information of interest, particularly in regard to ancient Chinese tomb construction.
During the summer of the same year I visited certain Japanese museums, and, in company with A. G. Wenley, of the Freer Gallery staff, inspected work by Japanese archeologists in extreme northern Korea, near the Siberian border.
lor several years past my attention had been increasingly drawn to the archeological significance of southwestern Shansi province— an important center of population from very remote times, owing in part, apparently, te the presence of large salt deposits. In the autumn of 1930, therefore, in association with the Shansi Provincial Library,’ we undertook the excavation of a site of the West Han period (206 B. C—8 A. D.) in that region. This work has already been described,’ and we need only note here that in its course attention was drawn to the vast quantities of Late Stone Age remains in the surrounding country. I therefore decided to try to find and excavate a village site of that cultural horizon.
* According to the present Chinese law, no non-Chinese scientific body may conduct researches in China except in association with some Chinese institution.
*Excavation of a West Han Site at Yen-tztt Ko-ta, Southwestern Shansi Province. Shanghai, 1932.

<<<Page: 121>>>

Fic. 36.—View of a modern Chinese cave village. The dwellings are dug in the face of loess bluffs.
Fic. 37.—Prehistoric Chinese pit-dwellings after clearing out.

<<<Page: 122>>>

A small portion of our finds on display at the Shansi Provincial Library.
Fic. 39.

<<<Page: 123>>>

By agreement with the Shansi Provincial Library and the now defunct Peiping Women’s Normal College, in spite of the prevalence of banditry in the area, work was started. It was placed under the immediate charge of K. Z. Tung, of the Freer Gallery’s field staff since 1922, and to his tact, good management, and courage its success is in large measure due.
By great good fortune, a large prehistoric village site was located almost at once, near the foot of an isolated hilly massif known as the Ku Shan, or “ Lone Mountain.” Excavations were conducted here during the two following seasons, and we were able to learn much of interest regarding the Chinese of the Late Stone Age, perhaps 4,000 years ago. A careful archeological reconnaissance was also carried out covering nearly the entire province of Shansi and embracing an area of over 500 miles in length by nearly 200 1n breadth.
A full report of our work will appear in due course; but meanwhile a brief account of our discoveries may not be out of place here.
A question often asked 1s, Whence came the Chinese people? We now know that they have occupied northern China for many thousands of years. The prehistoric race whose relics we uncovered was, as its skeletal remains prove, in the main that which occupies the country today.
Save for the “ Lone Mountain ”’ itself, the region where we worked is one of rolling cultivated plains composed of fertile loess soil. Our village site lay just at the northeastern base of the hill, well above the reach of floods. It was composed not of huts, but of beehiveshaped pit dwellings, long since completely filled in and covered over by wash from the higher levels. These pits were circular in plan and averaged about 10 feet in depth, with plastered walls. Entrance was at the top. The modern people excavate their dwellings in the face of loess bluffs, sometimes in two or more tiers, with their entrances at the front.
Our prehistoric Chinese were not nomads wandering about with their flocks and herds. On the contrary, they were sedentary planters depending for food upon what they grew. Their only domestic animals were the dog and the pig, and their chief crop appears to have been millet ; wheat and rice seem not to have been known. Their fields they cultivated with stone hoes, and they ground their grain on stone slabs.
They knew some textile plant, probably hemp; and spindle-whorls of clay or stone show that they spun thread. Impressions on pottery indicate that they wove cloth, and they seem also to have made bark

<<<Page: 124>>>

cloth. In cold weather they undoubtedly wore skins and furs. Mats and baskets were likewise woven.
Among the materials used in the manufacture of implements were stone, bone, deer antler, shell, and no doubt wood. Numerous stone adzes and a few axes were found, together with stone knives rectangular or semilunar in shape and often perforated. That the bow was used is indicated by the finding of arrow-points of stone, bone, and
ree g 3 ths Paid
Fic. 40.—Example of prehistoric Chinese painted pottery. In Freer Gallery of Art.
even shell. Among other objects were bone awls and hairpins and multitudes of rings of all sizes, of stone, clay, bone, and shell. Lumps of cinnabar, perhaps for painting the face or person, likewise occurred.
Immense quantities of potsherds were unearthed, but very few complete vessels. The Late Stone Age pottery of China falls into two main classes. Of these, by far the larger and more widely distributed consists of a coarse handmade ware, usually gray in color and decorated with impressed, incised, or applied ornamentation. It was manufactured by the “ coiling process,” still in use in parts of China. Vessels were made in a great variety of shapes and sizes.

<<<Page: 125>>>

The other class of pottery was far finer in all respects. It was “turned ’’ on some sort of potter’s wheel, and is buff to red-brown in color, with a surface susceptible of taking a high burnish. It is frequently decorated with geometric designs painted on in black, red, and white; often a white slip is used. The occurrence of this type of ware in China has only been known for about a dozen years.’ It has now been found all the way from Chinese Turkistan across to southern Manchuria. It appears only toward the very end of the Chinese Late Stone Age, and its remains occur mainly along the line of what were in historical times the great trade routes.
In addition to the pottery, other objects of earthenware found on our site were whistles, still capable of being blown; kilns for firing the pottery ; and clay cooking stoves nearly identical with those used today by the local people.
Naturally, little can be said regarding the religion of these prehistoric Chinese, although it was pretty surely based on the idea of the promotion of fertility in general. Some of the objects found can most plausibly be interpreted as serving some ritual purpose. And in clearing out one dwelling pit there were unearthed quantities of human bones, broken, disarticulated, and thrown in helter-skelter; these, together with similar finds at other sites, suggest that the Neolithic Chinese practiced human sacrifice and possibly ritual cannibalism.
It would be premature to assign a definite date to our finds; but a period somewhere around 2000 B.C. would perhaps not be very far from the truth. At all events they belong to a time shortly before the Chinese Bronze Age, and this is known to have begun a few centuries at most before 1500 B.C.
Field-work in northern China cannot be carried on either in the winter or in the summer, on account of frozen soil in the one case and torrential rains in the other. Hence during the winter of 1931-32 a visit was paid to the famous museum of the Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient in Hanoi, French Indo-China, and another, during the summer of 1933, to the very fine museum at Port Arthur, under Japanese management. In each case, studies were made of the collections, and photographs were obtained.
The remainder of the Expedition’s stay in China was occupied with the study of its finds, preparatory to their publication. The work of the Freer Gallery Field Expedition in China was terminated early in 1934.
*It was first made known to the world by Dr. J. G. Andersson, now of the Eastern Asiatic Museum at Stockholm.

<<<Page: 126>>>

By ALES HRDLICKA Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum
The 1934 season’s work on Kodiak Island, Alaska, begun in the earlier part of June, continued without interruption until September 3, the day before departure, and met with substantial success, with the gathering of over 40 boxes of valuable anthropological collections. In addition to the excavations a brief survey was made of the old sites in parts of the Cooks Inlet region and on the mainland opposite Kodiak Island.
For the success of the season the expedition is indebted to the U. S. Coast Guard Service, with the captain, officers, and men of the cutter Morris; to the U. S. Navy, Rear Admiral Cyrus W. Cole, with the captain, officers, and men of the minesweeper Ortolan; and to the Alaska Packers Co., more particularly to B. R. Hart, vice president, and Gordon Jones, superintendent of the Larsen Bay Cannery. The personnel of the expedition consisted of the writer and five volunteer students, namely, C. T. R. Bohannan, Robert F. Heizer, Thurman MacRae, Iver H. Zarbell, and Harold E. Zickefoose. For the benefit of these students a series of tri-weekly lectures was given, besides which they received practical field training.
The excavations were concentrated, in the main, on the heart of our site.’ Vertical exposures totaling well over 300 feet were made or renewed, reaching to the glacial till on which the whole site rests and ranging up to 16 feet in height. All the work proceeded by careful systematic undercutting, with tumbling of the top rubble. Scarcely a day passed without something entirely new appearing in the cultural remains, showing that the place is still far from completely known. Much additional light was shed on the involved problems of the deposits ; but there arose, too, new perplexities. At least one other season will be required for reaching final conclusions. The principal facts that became manifest during this summer were as follows:
The site is certainly one of considerable antiquity ; this cannot yet be measured in years, but extends over many centuries. Even the uppermost deposits are pre-Russian.
+See Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1931; idem, in 10932.

<<<Page: 127>>>

It was occupied, as time went on, unevenly, not all the ground being utilized at any time.
There were two distinct peoples here, the older, to whom are attributable about three-fourths of the deposits, and the later, of the same stock as found on the island by the Russians. The older people are still unidentified; the later were the Koniags and were apparently identical with the Aleut.
The older strain settled on the site at an early period. Their remains rest either directly on the glacial till or on a layer of “ butter earth,” a peculiar gritless yellow claylike deposit which has been diagnosed by our geologists as metamorphosed volcanic ashes. They may deep” and the
on cultural grounds be subdivided into the older or intermediate,” but their physical type continues the same
later or up to the Aleut invasion.
The Aleut occupancy is marked everywhere by the appearance of rubble—more or less burnt broken stones that had been used mainly in sweat baths. They differ culturally as well as physically from the earlier people, whom they completely displaced.
The culture of the oldest occupants of the site was in the main superior to that of the same people of later time, and differed from this in several marked respects. It shows a superior art in lamp sculpture ; a lesser variety of points and of objects of bone; absence or great scarcity of ivory; prevalence of chipped, with rarity of polished, large points and knives ; absence of chisels and axes ; frequency of ‘bird stones”; presence of characteristic small harpoons, with absence of multiple-small-barb and other large harpoons ; absence of poniards ; frequency of bone wedges; apparent absence of cannibalism; and absence of semisubterranean construction, sweat baths, and rubble. The food habits of these oldest settlers also differ from those of the later people, even those of the same derivation (the “ intermediates ’”?). They buried their dead individually within, but probably also outside, the site.
As times go on, from the old to the intermediate, the physical characteristics of the people remain the same, but their habits and culture change. The old lamp art fades away gradually ; chipped stone implements are more and more replaced by the polished variety ; the stone ax and adze appear, though still rarely; a new form of barbed point—a long slender cylindrical shaft with one, two, or even three rows of small barbs—appears, as do poniards and other bone tools; ivory objects, handsomely carved, up to ivory portraits, occur now and then, and so do various decorative and fetishistic articles; individual burials in the site are still practiced but are scarce and greatly

<<<Page: 128>>>

Fic. 41—Our shack on the site and the beginnings of the “ outdoor museum.”
Fic. 42—The “ gang” of volunteer students, 1934.
From left to right: T. MacRae, H. E. Zickefoose, R. F. Heizer, Gi iek Bohannan~lesee: Zarbell:

<<<Page: 129>>>

overshadowed by “ nest” burials, which in clusters of 5 to 11 skeletons occur disseminated over a very large part, if not all, of the site, at one level—just about the middle of the deposits. “ Bird stones” are now scarce, bone wedges equally or even more frequent, and the people now leave large bands (layer upon layer) of shell, much ashes, and much more or less dressed slate, as well as whale bones, particularly vertebrae dressed and used for seats, and shoulder blades, used also for seats and probably other purposes.
The use of semisubterranean dwellings is late, and they are all to be ascribed to the newcomers, the “ Koniags” or Aleuts. They excavated the old deposits, sunk posts down occasionally to the deep layers, disrupted and scattered burials, found and probably made use of old stone lamps as well as other cultural objects of the older people, and filled depressions, even some of their own abandoned house holes, with the old debris and their own rubble.
In the main high deposits at some places there are recognizable older and later rubbles, but over the lower parts of the site there is only the more recent layer. The rubble differs in character in different places. In some it is mostly more or less burnt slate, in others broken beach stones, the latter including here and there fragments even of old lamps and of other dressed stones. The rubble is interspersed or overlaid irregularly with loose clam and mussel shells and reaches everywhere a brown to black humus which covers all the surface and is composed partly of the remnants of vegetation, partly of rotted and disintegrated wood and thatch or sod which constituted the framework and roof of the Aleut dwellings.
The subsequent, largely Koniag, old excavations account for many disturbed burials, missing parts of skeletons, and scattered bones and skulls; also doubtless for various lamps and older cultural objects now found in the Koniag deposits. The objects thus found probably favored both adoption and imitation by the Koniags. This appears to have been the case especially with the “ banded” stones (clubheads, hammers, or sinkers), and with lamps.
A feature that was particularly noticeable this year, and one that has as yet received but little if any attention in archeology, is that every household differed more or less in habits and cultural products from every other, and this applies to all the periods; in some cases the differences, together with various adaptations from the past, were such as to give an impression almost of a different culture. Thus there was one Aleut region where we were sure of finding excellent stone chisels (or adzes) ; other old areas that gave ornate, or again

<<<Page: 130>>>

Lon HH
Fic. 43.—Part of the main exposures, showing a sweatbath fireplace and a stone-slab platform.
Fic. 44.—South wall of “image igloo,” showing two skulls in situ, and other specimens.

<<<Page: 131>>>

but simple, lamps; and still others that differed in the type of points, knives, the use of the slate slabs and whalebone, and in other ways. The whole site, it has become plain, was not at any period a homogeneous cultural entity, but an aggregate of related, yet more or less culturally differing, family units, no one of which would give anything like a complete picture of the whole. And the differences in separate units or in some lines were in some cases enormous. The differences were least in the articles of common use, and greatest in decoration and artistic objects, but also in cannibalism, food, ete.
Remains of a cremated intermediary-period adult male skeleton were found; and one adult female with one juvenile body had been burned partially during what appeared to have been a wide conflagration of the settlement at one time. Evidence has accumulated that at one time during the intermediary period, corresponding to just about the middle of the main deposit, there had taken place in the settlement a great massacre, following which, after some time, the survivors gathered and buried what remained of the bodies in heaps which now constitute the “nests” of burials found over a very large part of the site at the same level and at moderate intervals. These “ nests ” were thought at first (1931-32) to have been ordinary secondary burials, but their number (thus far eight have been discovered), their absence everywhere else in the deposits except at the one level, the mixture of bodies (females, males, youngsters), the weapons found with, and even still in, the skulls and skeletons, the occasional smashed skulls, mostly an absence of any order in the burials and of any mortuary offerings, all point to a massacre rather than to an epidemic or a regular form of secondary burials.
The increasing number of skulls and skeletons from all layers makes it possible now to see clearly the physical type of the older as well as the later (Aleut) people. The latter type is plainly that of the Koniags found on the island by the Russians ; the earlier stock, physically somewhat more delicate and of different, more oblong, head form, is not yet definitely identifiable. In the face these older skulls show occasional eskimoid affinities, but the vault differs and together with other features approaches more that of the Indian. Except for their occasional somewhat eskimoid facial characters, these skulls come close to those of the prevalent type of those of the Frazer River, the Shoshone, and the California Indians.

<<<Page: 132>>>

SALVAGING EARLY CULTURAL REMAINS IN THE VAN EEE Y OE PEs LOWER COLUMBIA RIVER
By HERBERT W. KRIEGER Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum
The first governmental exploration of the Far West undertaken in 1804 was the famous Lewis and Clark Expedition from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean. The personal narratives and official report of this undertaking are of first importance to Americans as the record of the first white men to cross the continent between the British and Spanish possessions. Throughout their journey these remarkable explorers showed a keen interest in the Indian inhabitants of the territory traversed, and in many instances their detailed observations are the only available information on Ind‘an customs for a given locality. The early establishment of trading posts in the valley of the lower Columbia River, occupied in historic times by Chinookan tribes, was instrumental in breaking down the native cultures 100 years before the settlement of the Great Plains. To supplement, therefore, at this late date these pioneer observations by means of archeological research has been the good fortune of the National Museum under the Smithsonian Institution in cooperation with the Bureau of Indian Affairs through an allotment of $4,000, later increased to $6,000, of P. W. A. funds. The work was of importance at this time, as with the completion of the Bonneville Dam across the Columbia River in the vicinity of Portland and the flooding of an area within the Columbia River gorge extending from Bonneville to The Dalles, Oreg., a distance of approximately 50 miles, the information obtained would otherwise have been lost.
Work began on June 26 with excavations on Bradford Island, and operations were completed December 18. Former Indian villages, camp sites, and burial grounds were excavated in the immediate vicinity of Bonneville, downstream as far as Prindle, Wash., and upstream from Bradford Island, on which the Bonneville Dam is under construction, as far as The Dalles. Each former Indian village site investigated was mapped, and its location, when possible, was identified from notes contained in the journal of Lewis and Clark. Representative house ruins were either trenched or excavated in toto, and in each case an attempt was made to identify its character and type of construction.

<<<Page: 133>>>

Fic. 45.—The rugged valley of the Deschutes River in Central Oregon 40 miles above its confluence with the Columbia just above The Dalles. Indians from the nearby reservations annually assemble at the various rapids, which form strategic salmon-fishing grounds.
Fic. 46.—Fishing ground on the Indian Reserve at Celilo, Oreg. Here the waters of the Columbia pour over ledges to form cascades and rapids. Salmon on their spawning journey upstream are netted or speared by the Indians.
Fie. 47.—Netting salmon at Celilo Falls, on the Columbia River. Occasionally a platform collapses and the Indian fisherman is seen no more.

<<<Page: 134>>>

Fic. 48—Excavating a house ruin ina former Indian village at Hood River, Oreg. The block standing in relief at the foot of the shovel is compressed wood ashes from the hearth. The native dwelling here uncovered is of the semisubterranean type with earthen roof.
Fic. 49—Native painting in red ochre of an elk. This pictograph appears on a smooth shelf of basaltic rock at the roadside on entering the Indian village of Spearfish, Wash.

<<<Page: 135>>>

Many of the habitation sites observed were obviously fishing camps used only during the salmon fishing season, since they were situated in the immediate vicinity of the river. Their remains can be traced frequently by the presence of ashes, charred wood, and blackened stones from camp fires, fishing implements, such as bone fishgigs, grooved stone weights for holding nets in position across the mouth of small tributary streams, and by the presence of chipped fragments of chalcedony, agate, and other stones preferred by Indians in the manufacture of their weapon points and cutting implements. Occasionally, a beautifully shaped and symmetrically worked stone bowl or a stone pestle of worked basalt, granite, or andesite, often with a carved animal figurine for its head, or an animal fetish of carved stone much like those fashioned by the Pueblo Indians of Arizona and New Mexico, supplied mute evidence of the artistic abilities of this prehistoric race of early Americans.
The gradient of the Columbia throughout this area is practically zero, except for a short distance at the Cascades where it drops about 20 feet in about 2} miles. Tides affect the river to a point just below these rapids. This sudden increase in grade is a probable remnant of a comparatively recent slide from the vicinity of Red Bluffs and Table Mountain, that at one time temporarily dammed the river, possibly giving rise to the Indian legend of the Bridge of the Gods. At present the effect of the slide is shown by the fact that the channel of the river is constricted at this point and pushed against the south wall of the gorge. Just below these rapids at Bradford Island is the site of the Bonneville project.
On the lower portion of the Red Bluff slide near North Bonneville on the Washington side of the river, the Indians had taken advantage of the hummock and hollow topography in building at Moffett’s Hot Springs one of the largest villages in the area, with circular pits of 35 former houses clearly distinguishable. The hummocks form a wind break around the old hollow, which has become filled to a level flat of several acres extent.
The Indians who formerly occupied this portion of the Columbia valley were simple hunters and fishermen. For the most part they were the direct ancestors of the Chinookan and Salish tribes who occupied that territory within historic times. Their distribution and the formerly well-recognized boundaries of their hunting territory bear, of course, no relation to their present home in the Yakima and Warm Springs Indian Reservations located respectively in Washington and Oregon.

<<<Page: 136>>>

ARCHEOLOGICAL WORK IN FLORIDA By M. W. STIRLING Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology
Under the relief program for the winter of 1933-34, opportunity was afforded for the Smithsonian Institution to conduct archeological work in cooperation with the Federal Emergency Relief Administration. After assisting in the preparation of plans for such work in five States, the writer left Washington on December 11, 1933, to supervise the several projects to be carried on in Florida.
After conferences with State relief officials in Tallahassee and Jacksonville, excavations were begun in Manatee and Sarasota Counties on the west coast, in Palm Beach County near Lake Okeechobee, and in Dade, Brevard, and Volusia Counties on the east coast.
The writer was occupied principally with administrative duties, but opportunity was taken whenever possible to watch the progress of the work at all sites. During the winter two visits were made to Macon Ga., to view the work being done there in cooperation with the Society for Georgia Archaeology, under direction of Dr. Arthur Kelly.
At Canaveral Island, work was conducted in the region occupied in early historic times by the Surruque Indians, and the mounds excavated undoubtedly belonged to this group or their immediate ancestors. Articles representing material culture proved to be very scarce, but an excellent series of skeletal material was recovered as well as a quantity of data concerning burial customs. Burials occurred with the bodies fully extended, the heads pointing toward the center of the mound and the feet toward the periphery. Some of the mounds excavated by Dr. George Woodbury and Erik Reed appeared to be prehistoric, others historic. Little difference between these groups was noticeable either with regard to physical type or burial methods.
A comparatively small sand burial mound was excavated on the banks of the Halifax River in Ormond Beach by J. D. Jennings. Complete excavation of the site revealed that beneath the mound a group of burials had been arranged in two concentric circles. A collection of pottery, stone, and shell specimens was obtained.
A badly mutilated refuse and burial site was excavated in the northern part of the city of Miami Beach by G. M. Stirling assisted by Vernon Lamme. This site yielded a representative collection of both skeletal material and objects of material culture.
At Belle Glade, under the direction of G. M. Stirling, a habitation mound was excavated. Adjoining this site was a sand burial mound

<<<Page: 137>>>

(ee)
FrG. 50.—Cross-section of Ormond Beach mound, showing old soil line and a fire pit in the middle.
Fig. 51.—Trench at the edge of the Belle Glade burial mound. The latest sand mound is visible in the upper left corner. Below the black muck may
be seen the remains of the earlier sand mound. Under this is the early muck mound.

<<<Page: 138>>>

Fic. 52.—Cremated burials in a mound near the Little Manatee River in Manatee County.
Fic. 53.—Cross-section in the shell burial mound on Perico Island.

<<<Page: 139>>>

Excavations yielded a large and representative collection including objects of shell, bone, stone, and wood. Fragments of black undecorated pottery were abundant. Excavations at the burial site revealed that originally a muck burial mound had been erected, and later a sand mound built above this was destroyed by a hurricane. Subsequently a third mound was erected on the same site. A limestone pavement had been built between the edge of the first sand mound and the bank of the river. Objects of European manufacture were found on the surface of the last sand mound, but not in the two previous structures. Although the skeletal material was badly disturbed, a very large series of bones was obtained. In the remains of the first sand mound were recovered a large number of carved wooden specimens, which had been preserved when buried by the flood which had destroyed the mound. These show an unmistakable affinity with the wooden objects recovered many years ago by Cushing at Key Marco.
In Manatee County, D. L. Reichard excavated four small sand mounds. These present a puzzling archeological problem because of the variety of burial customs exhibited. In one mound was found the foundation of a mortuary temple containing a cremation pyre, and in the mound itself all of the burials had been cremated. In another mound of this section all of the burials were secondary bundle burtals. A third mound contained both bundled and flexed burials, and the fourth mound of the region contained secondary burials, the exact nature of which was difficult to determine because of their almost complete disintegration. Two of these mounds were post-Spanish.
On Perico Island in the same county a shell burial mound, excavated by Marshall Newman, yielded an excellent collection of skeletal material, although it contained very few objects of material culture. The burials in this mound were all flexed interments, differing from the four sand mounds excavated in this region by Mr. Reichard.
Near Englewood in Sarasota County Mr. Newman excavated a large sand burial mound. Structural details of this site were of more than usual interest. A small sterile sand mound had been built over a large rectangular pit containing more than a hundred burials. Over this primary mound a secondary mound was later erected which contained numerous burials scattered throughout. No noticeable difference was observable in the pottery types obtained throughout.
The final results of the season’s work in Florida were very satisfactory. Sites were selected in regions from which little information was available. With the new data obtained as a result of these relief projects, we now have a fairly complete cross-section of the archeology of this State.

<<<Page: 140>>>

A EOLSOM. CAMP SITE AND WORKSHOP By FRANK HH: oH. ROBERTS, JR.
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
A significant addition to the material illustrating an early phase of aboriginal American culture was obtained during October and November, 1934, 1n northern Colorado, where traces of a camp site and workshop attributable to so-called Folsom Man were brought to light. A whole series of implements—several types of scrapers, a variety of cutting edges, drills, engraving tools, and numerous examples of the characteristic Folsom point—were found in situ in a dark layer of earth 14 feet below the present ground level (figs. 54, 55). This layer, exposed in the side of a deep, narrow gully, also contained quantities of cut and broken animal bones, stone chips and flakes resulting from the manufacture of tools, charcoal and ashes, and other refuse such as accumulates around a habitation (fig. 56.) The concentration undoubtedly was a midden, and traces of habitations probably are nearby, although none was found. Prior to this find, the only traces of a presumably early hunting people were typical finely chipped points of stone, but now there is a definite complex of associated implements. In addition, the stone flakes give evidence of the technique employed in the manufacture of implements, and the spalls and nodules indicate that the stone-working was done on the spot. Considerable raw material is available near the site, and this may have been one of the attractions which led to its occupation.
The discovery was due to information furnished by Maj. Roy G. Coffin, of Colorado State College, Fort Collins, through Dr. John B. Reeside, of the United States Geological Survey. Correspondence between the writer and Major Coffin indicated that an inspection of the locality was warranted and the owner of the land, William Lindenmeier, Jr., of Fort Collins, gave permission for the investigations. The site was originally located by Judge C. C. Coffin and his son, A. L. Coffin, about 10 years ago, and since then they and Major Coffin have collected numerous specimens from the surface. They were impressed with the fact that all of the points differed from the usual Indian arrowheads found in the region but were not aware of their significance until 5 years ago, when Dr. E. B. Renaud, of the University of Denver, explained that they were Folsom points. Dr. Renaud was examining local collections with the view of plotting

<<<Page: 141>>>

Fic. 54.—General view of the district. Site is in gully bank to right of car in middle foreground.
Fic. 55.—Location of midden deposit. Man is standing on level where material was found. Picture taken at beginning of investigations.

<<<Page: 142>>>

Fic. 56.— Layer containing bones and implements. Objects came from bottom of dark earth. Large bone fragments in situ.
° ' es
Fig. 57—Series of implements. Third from left in top row is a typical Folsom point.

<<<Page: 143>>>

distribution maps for various types of implements, when he noted the points in the Coffin series. He visited the site where they were found and mentioned it in his report. No actual work was done there, however.
When the writer was taken to the place where the points were found, he observed that it was a denuded area and that the specimens recovered had undoubtedly been in top-layer material which had been eroded away by wind and water. The stone implements, being heavy, had remained until picked up. This location promised little from the standpoint of digging. On the second day, while exploring the adjacent terrain in company with the writer, Judge Coffin picked up a portion of a Folsom point along the bank of the ravine a quarter of a mile from the spot where the Coffin specimens were found. Close inspection of the precipitous bank revealed an undisturbed and intact layer of midden material. Work was started, with the results summarized in the first paragraph.
The type of point designated Folsom is not a new discovery, nor was it restricted to a small geographical area. Variations of the form have been found from the Rockies to the Atlantic, from southern Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. It is represented in collections in numerous museums and in at least one instance has been called by another name. It did not attract particular attention, despite its individual characteristics, because the examples were all surface finds. Its true significance was established in 1927, however, by the Colorado Museum of Natural History at Denver, and the interest focused upon it has brought to light many specimens which had previously passed unnoticed. The points which became the pattern for the type were found near the small town of Folsom, N. Mex.—hence the name. They were in association with skeletons of an extinct species of bison, one which is considered as having lived at the close of the glacial period. Since then other points of that type have been found at different localities along with bones of the musk ox and mammoth, which are also ice-age animals. The supposition that the type represents considerable antiquity rests upon these associations. Whether the finds actually date man in North America at the beginning of the post-glacial period or demonstrate a later survival of ice-age animals is a phase of the problem which the geologist and the paleontologist must solve. Archeologists generally concede that the points belong to the earliest phase of aboriginal American culture yet discovered. The main importance of the Colorado finds lies in the fact that for the first time a variety of implements is known for that horizon.

<<<Page: 144>>>

INDEAN MOUNDS ON SEILOH BATTEEFIELD By PRANK EH: oH. ROBERTS, JR.
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
An extensive Indian site on the former battlefield at Shiloh National Military Park, Pittsburg Landing, Tenn., was the scene of intensive archeological investigations during the interval from December 21, 1933, to March 30, 1934. The project was sponsored by the C.W.A. through the Smithsonian Institution and was under the direction of the writer. The area in which evidences of aboriginal occupation are found lies in the eastern portion of the Park on a high bluff above the west bank of the Tennessee River. It is bordered on the north and south by deep ravines cut by tributary branches of the main stream. Major features of the site are seven large mounds, numerous small elevations, and a long, low embankment extending across the neck of the bluff from one ravine to the other. Six of the large mounds presumably served as platforms for structures, possibly temples, and the seventh was a burial place. The less conspicuous mounds indicate where dwellings once stood. The long, low ridge marks the line of a former palisade which protected the community along its western side.
Investigations included the digging of trenches at regular intervals in the area surrounding and lying between the main mounds (fig. 58) : sectioning of the burial mound (fig. 59) ; trenching two of the plat: form mounds; examination of a number of house sites; and excavations at several places along the palisade ridge. The trenches through the flats revealed the traces of 30 houses, a temple, and a number of refuse deposits. The Indian houses were found to have been round in outline (fig. 60). Their walls were of wattle and daub construc: tion, poles and cane plastered with mud. In two instances remains of white man’s dwellings were discovered. These structures, log cabins with a fireplace at one end of their single rooms, had been abandoned and fallen into ruins prior to the Battle of Shiloh in 1862.
Thirty interments were uncovered in the burial mound, and in addi tion the remnants of a log-covered pit were discovered on the ground level near the center of the mound (fig. 61). This pit seemingly had contained four bodies, but it was impossible to obtain correct data on the feature because the mound had been dug into about 35 years ago and most of the timbers and bones removed. The two platform

<<<Page: 145>>>

Fic. 59.—Sectioning one of the mounds for burials.

<<<Page: 146>>>

Fic. 61.—Portion of log-covered burial pit showing remains of timbers and bones.

<<<Page: 147>>>

mounds were trenched to verify their identification as such. Information was obtained on the manner in which they had been erected, and one of them gave evidence that it had been placed over the remains of a burned dwelling. No specimens were found in them, and there were no traces of buildings on their tops. Because of the large trees growing on these mounds, which the Park Service was particularly anxious to preserve, it was not possible to investigate them thoroughly. The other four mounds were not touched. Two of them had been dug into by earlier excavators, one had been used as a burial place for dead of the 21st Illinois infantry following the Battle of Shiloh, and the other had not only been dug into but in addition had served as a cemetery for a small settlement, no longer in existence, on the river bank nearby.
Among the specimens obtained from the site are several restorable pieces of pottery; large quantities of potsherds for study purposes ; stone implements; bone implements; shell ornaments; plaques of mica. Numerous objects dating from the battle—the right wing of the Confederate forces encompassed the Mound area on the afternoon of the first day’s fighting—were recovered and turned over to the Park museum. These included fragments of cannon balls, grape shot, minnie balls, bayonets, canteens, horse trappings, and personal equipment.
On both sides of the Tennessee River, above and below the main mound area, are numerous small burial mounds and village sites. The latter in contrast to the main cluster indicate a comparatively lengthy occupation. These villages were in most cases on low ground and subject to flooding by the river. For this reason it is suggested that the site on the bluffs, where the major excavations were made, may represent both a refuge spot, to which the Indians retired at times of high water, and the religious center of the region, which was placed beyond the reach of floods. Although large numbers were present only in times of stress or for ceremonial observances, a small group may have occupied the main center continuously.
The work at Shiloh had an additional interest to members of the Smithsonian Institution, owing to the fact that Maj. J. W. Powell, organizer and first director of the Bureau of American Ethnology, was a captain of artillery attached to the Illinois troops taking part in the battle. Several markers indicate positions occupied by his battery, and at the spot where it stood fast against severe pressure from the enemy, the State of Illinois has erected a monument. As a result of wounds sustained the first day of the battle Major Powell lost an arm.

<<<Page: 148>>>

Ve rE OMOGICAI bh XeLORATIONS IN THE COUNTRY Ohh BASTERIN: CHUMASEH
By WILLIAM DUNCAN STRONG Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
Of all the native peoples of southern California the Chumash were the most advanced. Unfortunately, their culture crumbled soon after the Spanish contact, and today the exact nature of their civilization must be determined by the archeologist. In the course of the C.W.A.-Smithsonian excavations in 1933-34 at Buena Vista Lake, aided by volunteers from the technical staff, I was able to make a brief archeological reconnaissance of the Cuyama Valley. Later, in April 1934, two weeks was spent under the guidance of J. G. James in exploring the rugged mountainous district adjacent to the Sisquoc River. These territories, now included in the Santa Barbara National Forest, comprise the eastern and archeologically unknown border of the old Chumash domain.
Three village sites and an ancient cemetery were particularly investigated in the Cuyama Valley. One of these near the head of Quatal Canyon was protohistoric. Several irregular summer shelters with juniper posts showing on the surface, and a semisubterranean winter earth lodge in the arroyo below were excavated. The latter was ovoid (16 feet in length), had two large central posts (charred but intact), a hard black floor, and a much used clay fireplace with a definite flue leading up the highest, northeast wall. Cross-sections revealed charred rafters resting on the floor and radiating in from the walls; above these were burned twigs, grass, and earth superimposed. Like all other earth lodges excavated, the entrance seems to have been through the roof.
On the Caliente Ranch a prehistoric village was investigated. One house completely excavated was round (19 feet in diameter) and the floor was about 2 feet below the present surface. It had four large central post holes (fig. 62, 1-4), a cache pit, and a well-made fireplace on one side lined with boulders.
At the side of a prominent natural mound on the Cuyama Ranch we completely excavated another prehistoric lodge (fig. 63). It had a shallow pit and was ovoid in form (24 feet long) with four central post holes (fig. 63, I-4) and a small storage pit. Except for a pile of burned rocks and a few broken mortar and pestle fragments it contained almost no artifacts. On the crest of the mound here we un-

<<<Page: 149>>>

Fic. 62—-Floor of prehistoric earth lodge, Caliente Ranch (nos. 1-4, central post holes ).
Fic. 63.—Floor of prehistoric earth lodge, Cuyama Ranch (datum square to show layers in center).
Fic. 64.—Superficial burials, Cuyama Ranch (dotted circle mouth of deep burial ).

<<<Page: 150>>>

, 1934
Fic. 65.—The valley of the Sisquoc and the Hurricane Deck country to the right.
Fic. 66.—Large red pictograph, perhaps the god Chungichnish, between Manzana Canyon and the south fork of the Sisquoc River.
Fic. 67.—Large barren rock shelter with faint pictographs, Montgomery Potrero.

<<<Page: 151>>>

covered 18 single flexed and a few mixed burials in shallow pits (fig. 64). Artifacts were rare, but a few native and some European objects occurred. Below the surface burials were 11 round, deep pits penetrating into the underlying gravel. At depths of from 4 to 6 feet were tightly flexed single or double burials, in most cases wrapped in native textiles. One skull, in a double burial, was covered with portions of an asphaltum-coated basket and a thin oak bowl. The mouth of one of the pits can be seen in the illustration (fig. 64, dotted circle). Artifacts were surprisingly rare at all these sites; mortars (often with an asphaltum ring), sandstone bowls, lap stones, pestles, small notched arrow points, rare dart or knife blades, numerous tiny Olivella beads, rare Pismo clam or steatite disk beads, a few wooden hair ornaments, and one or two steatite sherds were the main types encountered. Compared to coastal Chumash sites they were extremely poverty-stricken.
Our pack trip into the Sisquoc led us from the Cuyama west up Salisbury Canyon. Here we examined a village site and a burial ground that had been excavated by Mr. James. He collected typical Chumash steatite ollas and other coastal artifacts here, associated with Guadalajara pottery of the early colonial period. Our main camp was made at the forks of the Sisquoc. In the rugged canyon (fig. 65) we saw hundreds of deer and several California condor. Days of hard climbing up the North Fork, through the Hurricane Deck country (fig. 65), and into Manzana Canyon revealed numerous rock shelters. Certain of these near Sand Springs had small rockand plank-lined cists containing fragments of coiled baskets, twined water bottles, tule matting, and a few other artifacts nested in grass and coiled manzanita brush. Others on the North Fork and at Rattlesnake Springs yielded fragments of digging sticks, wooden fire hearths, and other perishable artifacts. Near here we noted one of the most striking pictographs observed on the trip (fig. 66). One of the large rock shelters on Montgomery Potrero which contained faint pictographs is illustrated (fig. 67). Two villages were examined on the upper Sisquoc but the house pits yielded little material, and the floor lines were very indistinct.
In general, our reconnaissance of the eastern Chumash country revealed a considerable number of sites but a great paucity of artifacts. It would appear that the people of this area were peripheral to the main Chumash centers on the coast and in the main possessed a simple culture like that of the valley Yokuts. Our own investigations do not indicate that the upper Sisquoc was ever an important trade route for shell and steatite from the coast.

<<<Page: 152>>>

By WINSLOW M. WALKER Associate Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
The Federal Civil Works Administration program during the winter of 1933-34 provided the opportunity for excavating a group of large shellmounds near Taft, Calif., in the upper San Joaquin valley. This site had previously been located and tentatively identified as the village site of Tulamniu, “the place of the Tulamni, or Tule Dwellers,” one of the lake tribes of Yokuts first visited in 1772 by the Spaniards, and because its excavation would require the labor of a large force of men for a considerable period of time, it was a most desirable location for the archeological project allotted to the Bureau of American Ethnology in California.
Work was begun the middle of December under the direction of Dr. W. D. Strong, assisted by the writer. We were fortunate in being able to obtain two trained California archeologists as assistants, W. R. Wedel, from the University of California, and FE. F. Walker, from the Southwest Museum, and the staff was augmented by technical men and graduate students. Employment as laborers was given to about 175 unemployed men from the Taft region of Kern County. Large scale operations made possible the examination of two shellmounds on the slope of the hills at the western side of Buena Vista Lake, now dry, and the uncovering of two large burial places on the hilltops just back of the mounds.
By combining the methods of trenching, screening, and clearing large areas horizontally, a good idea of the internal structure and contents of the mounds was obtained. They had been used not only as places on which to build huts, but also as refuse middens and burial spots. These mounds, more than 1,000 feet long, 150 feet wide, and about 10 feet thick, were the result of accumulation of large amounts of shell, sand, loam, ash, and camp debris over long periods of occupation, perhaps conditioned by the rise and fall of the lake waters.
The burial hilltops yielded a large number of mortuary objects, including finely chipped flint points, knives, bone awls, shell beads and pendants. The bodies in these cemeteries had been buried in the flexed position, wrapped in soft woven fiber, in some instances also encased

<<<Page: 153>>>

Fic. 68.—General view of operations on south mound.
Fic. 69.—Looking east toward lake through trench in north mound.

<<<Page: 154>>>

Fic. 71.—Double burial in pit.

<<<Page: 155>>>

760 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION Fie
‘tule mats. Adults and children alike had been buried in one graveyard without much regard for disturbing earlier burials. Most unusual was the finding of several skeletons stuck full of arrowpoints, indicating violent death from arrows shot at close range. However, the position of the points in the bones makes it seem unlikely that the victims died in battle, and strongly suggests the well known practice of several historic valley tribes of despatching their unsuccessful medicine men. This cemetery therefore, may have contained the bodies of a part of the population who perhaps perished in some plague or pestilence which their local medicine men were unable to prevent, and so they too were put to death for their failure.
Interments in the shellmounds were more carefully made, especially those of adults, many of whom were laid in circular or oval pits. These pits, however, were so similar to the roasting and cache pits found in the vicinity of the house floors as to suggest a secondary use of many of them for mortuary purposes. Human infant bones as well as charred fragments of the bones of adults were occasionally found associated with animal bones in the refuse pits.
The picture in general is that of a primitive hunting and fishing people who had presumably followed up the course of the San Joaquin from the San Francisco Bay region and settled many hundreds of years ago around Buena Vista Lake, where an abundance of fish, shellfish, fowl, and game of many kinds existed. The distinctive feature of this marsh culture was the use of the tule rush for housebuilding material, fishing rafts, textile fibers, burial shrouds, and even fuel. Bone was used for awls, bodkins, punches, flakers, whistles, fishhooks, beads, and pendants. Stone tools included mortars, pestles, mullers, grinding slabs, hammers, balls, and plummets. Flint, obsidian, and schistose were chipped into projectile points, knives, drills, and scrapers. There was no pottery, but steatite was fashioned into a variety of objects such as cooking vessels, reels, arrow-straighteners, grooved “ tule creasers,” disks, beads, and miscellaneous small forms. Shell ornaments ranging from large disk pendants to tiny ring beads were cut from abalone, olivella, clam, and limpet, and trade contacts with the coast are indicated by this use of marine shells and by the steatite industry. Obsidian could only have come from the eastern Sierra tribes. The culture of the ancient Tule Dwellers was, therefore, not materially different from historic Yokuts tribes.

<<<Page: 156>>>

RACING DESSOTO:S ROUTE By JOHN R. SWANTON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
An invitation to attend the opening meeting of the Society for Georgia Archaeology at Macon as the guest of Dr. and Mrs. C. C. Harrold enabled the writer to spend a few weeks in that section visiting sites of historical and archeological interest, accompanied at times by Dr. Arthur R. Kelly and James A. Ford, archeologists in charge of the excavations at Macon, as well as several local students of Georgia history and prehistory. Some collections of potsherds were made during these trips, but particular attention was devoted to an attempt to determine points on the route followed by Hernando de Soto in 1540 when he crossed the territory of the present State of Georgia from the neighborhood of Bainbridge to a point below Augusta on the middle course of the Savannah River. This was attended with considerable success, particularly in the identification beyond reasonable doubt of the crossing place on Oconee River. The location would seem to have been at Carr Shoals (fig. 72), about 6 miles above Dublin, in Laurens County, the only place on the river below Milledgeville where the topography corresponds at all closely with the description of Rodrigo Ranjel, De Soto’s secretary, whose narrative is considered the most reliable. The trail which crossed here was later known as the Lower Uchee Path, and on the high land just east of the ford there was an Indian settlement.
On Saturday, April 17, 1540, according to Ranjel, they crossed a very large river, divided into two branches, wider than a long shot from an arquebuse. And the fords were very bad, with many flat stones, and the water came up to the stirrups and in places to the saddlepads. The current was very strong and none of the horsemen dared to take a foot soldier on the croup. The foot soldiers crossed the river further up where it was deeper in this way. They made a line of thirty or forty men tied together and so they crossed over supporting each other; and although some were in much danger, it pleased God that none was drowned, for the horsemen helped them with their horses and gave them the butt of the lance or the tail of the horse, and in that way they all got out and passed the night on a hill. That day they lost many pigs of those which they had brought tame from Cuba, as they were carried down by the current. (Narr. of De Soto, Bourne ed., vol. 2, p. 93.)
Although the channel has been altered by government engineers and most of the water has been deflected from the west side to the

<<<Page: 157>>>

Fria. 72.—Carr Shoals in the Oconee River, where De Soto probably crossed April 17, 1540. Only the eastern channel is shown. (Photograph by J. R. Swanton. )
Fic. 73—Hill east of Carr Shoals S i E Shoals, perhaps used as a camping place b De Soto on the night of April 17, 1540. (Photograph by J. R. Swanton.) :

<<<Page: 158>>>

Fic. 74——Towns Hill, Oconee County, S. C., probable site of the Cheraw town (Xuala) in 1540. (Photograph by F. M. Setzler.)
} Sy ee H pad PRE WR a x 1 lly, wn Re
Fic. 75.—The Little Tennessee at Franklin. Near this bridge is the ford where De Soto’s army probably crossed, May 26, 1540. (Photograph by
EF. M. Setzler.)

<<<Page: 159>>>

8o SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
east, there were always two channels at Carr Shoals, there are stones in the river, and the strength of the current is particularly noteworthy at this spot. Finally, a high hill suitable for camping 1s within sight of the river on its eastern side (fig. 73).
By the extension of a similar courtesy, in November the writer and F. M. Setzler, of the National Museum, were enabled to examine archeological collections and visit archeological sites in North Carolina and Georgia, and about Panama City, Florida, and to extend the work of determining De Soto’s route. It is believed that some progress was made toward working out the part of the route through Georgia, but the identification of the section from northwestern South Carolina through the Appalachians to the Hiwassee was particularly satisfying. The old Cheraw town, called by the De Soto chroniclers Xuala, Xualla, or Chuala, was evidently on what is now called Towns Hill between Crane and Knox Creeks, Oconee County, where numerous Indian remains are constantly being unearthed (fig. 74). On the west face of the hill upon which stood the town is a well-marked trail, and this is connected with an ancient trail whose course is still known to old residents. It ran across the steep mountain ridges to Franklin via Highlands and down the valley of the Cullasagee River. The Little Tennessee River was forded at Franklin, and the plain of Franklin (fig. 75) was evidently where De Soto’s army stopped for a day while one of his officers, Alonso Romo, went back in search of a couple of missing men and where the famous “ lady of Cofitachequi ”’ escaped, carrying with her a box of unbored pearls. At Franklin we learned from W. B. McGuire, a surveyor who has spent many years of his life exploring this country, that the main Indian trail west ran up the valley of Cartoogechaye Creek and across Black Gap to the head of Shooting Creek. In fact, Mr. McGuire went out with the investigators and showed them portions of this trail still discernible on the mountain sides.
After descending the mountains the trail continued along Shooting Creek to the Hiwassee and reached Old Hiwassee town at the mouth of Peachtree Creek, which there is every reason to believe was the Guasili of the De Soto chronicles. From there it went on along the north side of the Hiwassee to the mouth of Conasauga Creek, where a famous war trail from the north crossed and continued southwest to the neighborhood of Chattanooga. This war trail was picked up by the Spaniards, who continued along it to and down the Tennessee to the southernmost bend of the latter river.

<<<Page: 160>>>

By JOHN P. HARRINGTON Ethnologist, Burcau of American Ethnology
Fr. Jeronimo Boscana, a Spanish missionary, in 1822 wrote a concise, scientific treatise on the Indians of the San Juan Capistrano Mission, on the coast of southern California. The Boscana account had been published in English translation in 1846, but it remained for me to discover the Spanish original, and to publish an exact translation of it in June 1934 (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 92, no. 4). In order to obtain better notes for a complete edition of this newly discovered original, I left Washington early in June and proceeded to Los Angeles, Calif., and thence to the San Juan Capistrano region.
The Mission and town of San Juan Capistrano are situated on the creek of that name, only 3 miles above its mouth. The whole coast of California is a succession of similar creeks, each terminating in a lagoon at the beach. Between these creeks lie rather bare hills along the southern coast. San Juan Creek runs directly from Saddleback Mountain, two great twin peaks 18 miles inland, and has a famous hot spring at its head. Although so near the coast, Saddleback looks down to the east abruptly upon a weird desert scene, Elsinore Lake in a great barren basin, where according to the San Juan Indians man was created out of the mud of the lake. Still farther east lies the great snow peak of San Jacinto and the San Jacinto River.
The first 17 days of the work were spent with a very sick informant. The work was very trying to all concerned but was important in results. Among rare items obtained may be mentioned the memory that the piece of flesh cut from a corpse was dried and eaten by the officer called taaxvko at a memorial ceremony held later; that the hole in the center of the ceremonial sand painting is called tolmal, hades, and that we all go there and not beyond the sky; that Woyoot, the elder culture hero, was the moon, that he not only resurrected as the moon, but was the moon all the time. He was the first person who died, and the signs of his sickness can be seen on the haggard face of the moon. Sixteen months he was sick with a bewitchment brought upon him by lusting after a frog girl. When about to die, he told the people not to burn him because there was no fire. Coyote had been hanging about over-affectionate, licking the eyes of his dying

<<<Page: 161>>>

oO tbo
| 34 , jouy yp aroiis, por? Y cantar BOO CP UH pusind heme, y Wa. rulmy, canton, Mudra desu bayles jon muy Pecentey, y pew wn nate Siverboas
fr Jas Pincay mipriabal gut a tiles hacen. ty une home Yhtand wr
tae! yut Jon fey arto, swiadadys Vihar titan ALE ef tante,con wa) con tdite! De Dortapurtod raped De bes en tony Leal pease Derr, leamady Forait es A nda OdO J Ue ut avian, y dodavia Vian, e Ju boy fy como tal uUytarrend? Je (ernpor ve, unas cordeal oe donhuputel y wiol preDrias Rena fo Hanan Poasl Pm Waser arte oH te Purtag a, fry Och ad Ornar ae do. pura Lipcent tandren UlaVvas a. fulr od pana/ cb {ued Caras ers abieatts Por trmeno, yf, tos cantore! Suga? y cantan,y pinbnen es cople, da, Repiten fos gue baylan hombre ymupertl: Mcher de Su batplos no Wh enren mas Gute tant rem AE Qe, alpina animale?
Enne. Pode! Juf tel gue celedarran po Pes ty os, De bes pra!
puny ates ¥ Lolemne, Pra we, Je Uanavan dns retha. Vel Somer, ger
Fic. 76.—Reproduction of the upper half of page 34 of the newly discovered Boscana manuscript showing the earliest known pictures of the paaayat turtle-shell rattle. In the eastern United States the turtle shell was attached in a plane with the handle; in the west small shells were sought and one to five shells were attached crosswise.
Fic. 77.—* Footprints” at Exva Temeeko, the just discovered cradleland and dispersing point of the southern California Indians. There are hundreds of these “tracks of bare and sandaled feet” in the rocks and “ prints of baby cradles.” (Photograph by J. P. Harrington.)

<<<Page: 162>>>

Fic. 78.—A recently discovered photograph taken at San Juan Capistrano in 1892, original in possession of Annie Woodward. Under the shed roof is shown the adobe oven in which bread was baked.
Fic. 79—Circle of rocks on spur of hill overlooking Three Springs, upper Pleitito Canyon, San Emigdio Mountains. (Photograph by J. P. Harrington. )

<<<Page: 163>>>

“ father.’ He was sent away to get fire, to get rid of him, but looked back, and seeing that others had kindled the pyre, ran back, seized the heart of Woy6ot in his mouth and ran away with it. New details about Chinigchinich, prophet born at the Bixby ranch near Long Beach, were obtained. The creation chants of these Indians are beautiful indeed; they tell of the world from its first formation.
It is the common belief of these Indians that although they originated in the far north, in Alaska or who knows where, and journeyed south, they then dispersed from a cradleland called Exva Temeeko. Miss Constance Goddard DuBois was told of the footprints of the first people on rocks at this place, but she never discovered the locality. From information given by the sick informant and others, the writer discovered this place. It lies in the Elsinore or inland region above referred to, on the west bank of Santa Margarita Creek, an arroyo which starts in the inland plains and then suddenly turns and plunges apparently crosswise through the western mountains to reach the coast. The place exhibits a natural formation resembling hundreds of footprints of the first people in the rock (fig. 77). Here the people lived for a long time, when the rocks were still soft and mudlike, until they migrated in small groups to the habitats where they were found on the arrival of the Spaniards. The montivol cycle of songs tell of these migrations of clans and families, mentioning many places along the routes, and rocks which are petrified animals or people, or which survive from ancient acts. I also visited many rock paintings and confirmed the information that the oil used was that of the chilicothe, Echinocystis macrocarpa Greene. These paintings, representing owls, rattlesnakes, bears, centipedes, rainbows, and geometric designs, are said by the Indians to be made by a painting spirit who works secretly in the darkness. fresh designs were said sometimes to appear in the morning. The designs seem to have had little connected meaning. I also obtained an old photograph taken in 1892 (fig. 78).
I then went to the San Emigdio Mountains, visiting many places and painted caves of importance. Seaching for a circle of stones on a ridge where the Indians sucked water from a perennial spring by inserting a carrizo tube through a plugged chink in a rock, we located a curious corral of rocks on a spur of hill overlooking Three Springs in the upper Pleitito, which may or may not have been the rock enclosure in question (fig. 79). I checked the boundaries of the Alliklik, or La Liebre-Piro, tribe, who were called Tataviam, people of where the morning sun hits, by the Kitanemuk. Chumashan Alliklik equals Yokuts O’dwiye’its’, both meaning “ Grunters.”

<<<Page: 164>>>

By TRUMAN MICHELSON Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
The Passamaquoddy Indians on the State reservation on the coast of Maine were studied by the writer during a part of September 1934. By good fortune he was able to stay in an Indian home. Probably all the Passamaquoddy have white blood in varying degrees, mostly old, but some recent and contemporary. Their ancient social organization is utterly shattered; even the Indian kinship terms are mostly used with English values, and the word “cousin” has been bodily adopted. On the other hand their religious ideas, as well as their folklore and mythology survive practically intact. Shamans existed until very recently, and possibly even yet. The “ transformer ”’ motif is predominant in their folklore. Every strange-looking rock or other natural object will have a myth to account for it.
The writer was able to collect four tales not published previously, one a variant of the European “ three wishes,” previously known to occur among the Malecites, who are close linguistic kinsmen of the Passamaquoddy, a variant of how Kuloskap (their national hero) was conquered by a baby, a tale previously recorded by Speck as occurring among the Penobscot, comparatively close congeners ; a story of marital infelicity which is extraordinarily widely spread among North American Indians; and a rather amusing story of the water spirits. The collections of Passamaquoddy folklore and mythology published by Dyneley Prince were found to be very characteristic and well told stylistically.
These Indians, several hundred in number, all speak Passamaquoddy. Even blue-eyed and yellow-haired children speak the laneuage, so that there is no danger that it will soon become extinct, in sharp contrast to Penobscot. Of course all (with one or two possible exceptions) speak English ; but Passamaquoddy is the language used in their homes. The language itself, contrary to the usual belief, is highly intricate phonetically, and as had previously been known it ts clearly a “tonal” language. The differences in the pitch of vowels are easily noted when one listens to the spoken language. Unfortunately the Passamaquoddies rarely correct one if the syllables are even purposely put on the wrong key, for the words seem even then

<<<Page: 165>>>

Aq ydeisojoy )
(‘4061 ‘[[In) AooueJoq ‘yurid pjo ue wos ‘sueipuy Apponbeuresseg—1g “91
‘sueipuy Apponbewesseg JO Suoljesi9uas 9Al.J—0g “DIF

<<<Page: 166>>>

(‘£101 )y Aooueyoq Aq ydesso} , Youey 101 ,, 0} payoezye usyM s ‘Apponbewesseg & ,, I 2 HIT, JO ‘stoueiy AD 2UeSSed eB ‘OolURWy AIeyyY 10
Zi < a Ay A

<<<Page: 167>>>

to be nearly always intelligible to them. So the writer was unable to determine in the short time at his disposal whether the tonality 1s innate in separate words or whether it is really a sentence-melody. It can easily be shown that Passamaquoddy (as is the case with other Eastern Algonquian languages) has deviated from the normal type owing to phonetic shifts of simple nature but of wide application. An incipient dual in the verb should be noted.
Fic. 84—Alexander Sapin, a Passamaquoddy. (Photograph by DeLancey Gill, 1906.)
Regarding the present economic situation of these Indians, some are enterprising and others are not. Some live in good frame houses, others in shacks. Basket-making is a major source of revenue, porpoise-shooting also is profitable, and making ax handles 1s another widely plied trade. And the State of Maine “helps out”. It should be noted that no serious crimes occur among them; the Passamaquoddy are a kindly hospitable people.
During his visit, the writer succeeded in seeing one of the old wampum “‘ belts”, which have been seen by few of the Passamaquod-
cies themselves.

<<<Page: 168>>>

_ oe LP 7: 'p ms : e > ’ ogy! i ~ @* 7 ee Le 7 wy 7 2 re va . i ’ Te nee in AM lls oe ae 7 oe!: : oF in ei; 7 7 Me. / a Gea? y | a 7 y ny Ly i‘ U Sy Ae iv) 7 "2 i _ Dy On ‘ _ orn ¥ ite, 7 a) ane iy = 7
ay: -
> Sree aa Tae Roe eaw f
in _ i ”, ae r

<<<Page: 169>>>



<<<Page: 170>>>



<<<Page: 171>>>



<<<Page: 172>>>

<HE-INC) CS SSD Ao

<<<Page: 173>>>

The Lord Battimore Press

<<<Page: 174>>>

Field expeditions sent out or cooperated in by the Smithsonian Institution during the calendar year 1935 are briefly described in the present pamphlet. The objectives of these expeditions fall within the following classes: Reconnaissance of little-known areas for the purpose of determining the feasibility of future work ; obtaining of specimens or data needed in the course of investigations in progress; and excavation of archeological sites. The scientific results are eventually incorporated in one of the technical series of publications issued by the Institution and its branches, this annual exploration pamphlet serving only as a preliminary announcement to record in semipopular form the year’s field-work.
Unless otherwise stated, the articles are written by the scientists who directed the work in the field, and the pictures are taken by them. Owing to continued financial stringency, the number of Smithsonian expeditions in the field in 1935 was only about half that usual a few years ago.
Noles Riso ap, dsieliiaovin

<<<Page: 175>>>

es + a Joe
ee. T') tae = | ; erie * a) : Dis 7 ae
mare? ae: he se wat At? ae : , " 7
vine oO). SP 8 aa 4 > Pa ee a ire a i : "3a ue
: 5 c : vy" ow
iq ‘em se
“1 Sa ee tL ids a —s ie ie r ne eae ies hw
meee
PO ory oi 7 Be Ae:
. hae fd
> Saad
eater ge
eas, ee he aay Ae = reas ©
wy <i 7 fF
Me oe i > ou. or . By a Phy 1? 7 = ' 7
wis uy
Ur.>
ae aie
ie oe Ay hy fa . AY aha ot a} ae eee ew, Pee a ree ee >. = i i het) ee 7 . sche
. 7?fy Me) el ee

<<<Page: 176>>>

PAGE 3andy, Mark C. A mineral-collecting trip Woven (Clik ncesaanesoncc0s 13 Bartlett, Capt. R. A. Greenland expedition of 1935..-....++-++++++eeeee5 BF Chapin, Edward A. Explorations of Rev. David C. Graham in Szechwan,
(Chie oo ieee eo bio oe omnia a boo noe Cereos need G oeron gain barium ora 43 Cochran, Doris M. Studying the Amphibian life of Brazil........-....--23 Cooper, G. Arthur. Studies of Middle Devomian rocks in the Mid-West.... 9 Gilmore, Charles W. Fossil hunting in Montana and Wyoming eee I Hrdli¢ka, Ales. Archeological expedition to Kodiak Island, Alaslaraeerace 47 Judd, Neil M. A glimpse at the past in INeeeneaaaenc boos oneao Saco Gomes 53 Krieger, Herbert W. Tidewater Algonkian Indians of Virginia and
iMRI snl Spee HOLE oid on a aniac oar an eee enc ania meats sere. cn 50 Michelson, Truman. Indian language studies on James and Hudson’s Bays,
(SEP TG AW, al bade eA Paar rs Cee a SRR TRO SOO a ca eS aes 2 75 Miller, Gerrit S., Jr. Mammals of the Florida Keys........-+-++++-+++++> 19 Resser, Charles E. Geologic studies in the Appalachian Mountains......-. 5 Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. Further investigaticns at a Folsom campsite in
aaa Senl (COMOROS Ss epee soo de ud cabo moe Sand n nc omGDocun In goRd ono 69 Schmitt, Waldo L. Hancock Pacific Expedition, 1935...--+-+---++++ss+:: 20
Stirling, M. W. An anthropological reconnaissance in Guatemala, Honduras,
aati) ONFbLeenB hake 5 Ales oie eee tic Dio ees yn aie eee oo

<<<Page: 177>>>

* " ; = Nag Sn ei ai far Gs
eg She in i, oii <

<<<Page: 178>>>

FOSSIL HUNTING IN MONTANA AND WYOMING sy CHARLES W. GILMORE
Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum
In the northwestern half of Montana, where Milk River loops southward from the Canadian border into the Blackfeet Indian Reservation, is a small area of broken country known as “ badlands,” in which are found the fossilized remains of dinosaurs and other extinct reptiles. This part of Montana is largely rolling prairie country, and in approaching the “ badland”’ area from the south one receives no hint of its existence until, upon surmounting a rise, he suddenly looks down into the valley of Milk River, where for 4 miles along either side of its course are denuded slopes and outlying rocky pinnacles— ideal ground for the collection of fossil specimens.
The Two Medicine formation, as these Upper Cretaceous measures are named, has twice before, in 1913 and 1928, been explored by Smithsonian expeditions. In fact, the considerable vertebrate fauna now known to occur in this formation has been almost entirely developed as a result of these explorations. It was for the purpose of adding still more to our knowledge of these animals that the 1935 expedition was planned.
The party under my direction consisted of George F. Sternberg and George B. Pearce, both of Hays, Kans., the former, as in previous years, serving as field assistant, and the latter as cook. On June 23 the first camp was established in the midst of these “ badlands ” on Milk River, some 30 miles north and west of the small town of Cut Bank, used as the base of operations.
The changes taking place in Cut Bank between my first and last visits, as illustrating the vicissitudes through which some of these small western towns pass, are most interesting. At the time of my first visit in 1913 it was a town of 700 or 800 people, a division point on the Great Northern Railroad, with its attendant roundhouse, shops, etc. In 1928, the railroad had abandoned Cut Bank as a division point, with the subsequent loss of the town’s chief payroll and of onehalf of its inhabitants. The town was dead, and many of the small residences were being loaded on trucks and hauled away. In 1935, however, all this was changed ; it was now the center of an active oil field, a prosperous and thriving community with a larger population than ever before in its history.

<<<Page: 179>>>

Fig. 1—Camp on south side of Milk River, on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)
Fic. 2—Fossil bones of a duck-billed dinosaur, shown as they lay in the ground. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

<<<Page: 180>>>

Frc. 3.—A dinosaur quarry, showing the bones of Procheniosaurus as they were uncovered. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg. )

<<<Page: 181>>>

Commencing at the western end of the breaks and working eastward, we made a systematic search of this entire “ badland”’ area for specimens. Since the Two Medicine formation is equivalent in age, in part at least, to the famous Belly River formation occurring along the Red Deer River in Alberta, some 200 miles to the north, which has produced a great number of articulated dinosaur skeletons, 1t has always been our hope that similarly preserved specimens might be found in this formation. It was therefore gratifying to discover two articulated tails of the small and little known Procheniosaurus, and a partial skeleton, also articulated, of one of the larger duck-billed dinosaurs. Another specimen worthy of special mention was a skull of the Brachyceratops montanensis, the first specimen of this species to be found since the discovery of the type materials in 1913. There were also parts of armored and horned dinosaurs and well-preserved turtle specimens pertaining to the genera Veurankylus and Aspideretes.
Having exhausted the Milk River field, late in July we transferred our activities to a second badland area along the Two Medicine River, some 50 miles to the south. We were fortunate in finding the river, a beautiful mountain stream of clear water, at a low stage which permitted our truck to pass over a rocky ford, and we were thus enabled to work the breaks on the south side of the stream, a field that was denied us on a previous visit because of high water. In addition to a number of dinosaurian specimens, none worthy of special comment, two specimens of a small three-toed Ceratopsian dinosaur were discovered. These specimens pertain to a form never before found in this formation, and it is quite possible that they may represent a dinosaur new to the Upper Cretaceous of North America. Upon the completion of our work here the collections, consisting of more than 14 tons of specimens, were packed and shipped to the Museum.
Nearly a month was next spent in the Big Horn Basin field, where a collection of mammalian skulls, jaws, and parts of skeletons was obtained. Here we discovered the prize of the season—a complete articulated skeleton of Coryphodon, the large hippopotamus-like animal of this period. Scattered parts of Coryphodon skeletons are commonly found in the Wasatch formation, but complete articulated skeletons are extremely rare. To my knowledge only one other such specimen has been collected.
The collections, totaling more than 2 tons of specimens, supplement those made in previous years, and for the first time the faunas of the Wasatch and Two Medicine formations are now adequately represented in the national collections.

<<<Page: 182>>>

ByeiCHARLES EE. RESSER
Curator, Division of Invertebrate Paleontology, U. S. National Museum
Restudy of the Cambrian rocks of the southern Appalachians has been needed for some years. A generation ago, when several folios of the geologic atlas were surveyed, considerable knowledge of Cambrian history of the region naturally developed, but in more recent years investigation of these old strata became incidental to other work. Now that a fuller understanding of the general features cha racterizing the Cambrian system has been acquired, and more modern stratigraphic methods have come into use, plans were made for specific investigations of the Cambrian strata in the southern Appalachians during the field season of 1935.
Accordingly, late in June studies of these rocks were begun in eastern Tennessee, a region of picturesque mountains and fertile valleys. Thence the investigations were carried southward along the Blue Ridge and Great Valley as far as Birmingham, Ala. The northward work was carried on in the more westerly outcrop belts, ending north of the Potomac River about September 1.
Great masses of sand, gravel, and sandy mud accumulated just prior to and during the earlier portion of the Cambrian age. These now form much of the Blue Ridge from Pennsylvania to Alabama. In general, the younger rocks are situated to the westward of these older clastic beds. These younger rocks are chiefly limestones or soft shales, and because of solubility, their outcrops have been reduced, forming the present valleys. Next west of the Blue Ridge is the Great Valley, a rather open region of rolling topography, although flat when compared to the rugged eastern mountains. Beyond that, the terrane is a succession of sharp mountain ridges composed of the nonsoluble strata, separated by rather narrow valleys underlain by limy rocks or soft shales.
Although the general progression westward from older to younger rocks, as above outlined, is a true picture, distribution of the strata in present outcrops is not so simple. After the sheets of sediment were deposited in more or less flat layers, they were folded intensively and then faulted, so that any suite of beds under consideration will be
c ro]

<<<Page: 183>>>

Fic. 4.—Temporary wayside church northwest of Morristown, Tenn.
Fic. 5—North bank of Coosa River, Cedar Bluff, Ala., a locality famous for fossils.

<<<Page: 184>>>

Fic. 6.—Outcrop of one stratum; rather massive blue limestone on right, leached to a shale on the left.
Fic. 7.—Soil erosion in red residual material of the Maryville limestone.

<<<Page: 185>>>

found repeated in several belts. None of these is apt to be like any other because each represents merely the edge of an overthrust slice of the total sequence.
Nearly 4,500 miles was covered by automobile this season in the attempt to become acquainted with the major features of the Cambrian system in the southern Appalachians. Many fossils were found which will give a better understanding of the stratigraphy.
On the whole, fossils are rare in the Cambrian strata of the southern Appalachians. Locally one may find an abundance of individuals or obtain a fairly large assemblage of species. For example, about 50 years ago Dr. Cooper Curtice, under Dr. Walcott’s direction, made extensive collections, particularly in the Coosa Valley of Alabama. This wide, flat basin, through which the Coosa River winds, is underlain by shales, chiefly soft clay shale, but in places very limy. Nodules formerly of limestone but now weathered to chert contain beautiful fossils. Thousands of these lay on the surface, and Dr. Curtice hired Negro boys to pick up all they could find; those showing fossils were packed and shipped to Washington. Today an occasional cobble can be found in Yancey’s Bend of the Coosa River, but such a clean sweep was made 50 years ago that few have weathered out since. Higher up the Coosa River, at Cedar Bluff, other interesting fossils can still be obtained. At this locality they occur in shale but have the tests thickened by deposit of calcite. Large trilobites with two long, heavy tail spines are the most striking animals represented.
Highways and back roads must both be used in geologic work. Not all of the highways are in good condition, and on the steeper slopes, both in the mountains and next to the major streams, rough stretches in the byways are the rule. Rainfall was very irregular this season, one area having 10 inches per month, while others had nothing more than a light shower for 12 weeks. Dust was a hindrance to the work in several areas, sometimes so completely covering the rocks that one could not even identify them.
A notable discovery of the past season is the fact that the beautiful fossils found near Austinville, Va., occur in reefs. These reefs are composed of Archaeocyathidae, cup-shaped animals related either to the sponges or corals, but forming reefs like corals. These reefs are like those in Labrador along the Straits of Belle Isle, consisting of the same reef builders among which lived the same thick-shelled brachiopods and other animals found in Virginia.

<<<Page: 186>>>

By Ge Ak PHURsSeCOORER Assistant Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, U.S. National Musewm
In detailed stratigraphic work designed to determine the equivalence of rock layers over wide areas, rare or unusual fossils are often of greater value than more common species. This proved to be true in studies of Devonian rocks in New York, Indiana, Hlinois, Iowa, Michigan, and Ontario. The writer, accompanied by Dr. at SY Warthin, Vassar College, Dr. Merrill A. Stainbrook, Texas Technological College, and P. E. Cloud, Washington, D. C., set out to determine the relationships of middle Devonian rocks in the States named. As in former years New York was taken as a starting place. Here a caleareous coral bed, the Centerfield limestone, contains a peculiar assemblage of fossils including the brachiopods Camerophoria, Pentagomia, Vitulina, Parasyga, Cyclorhina, Spirifer divaricatus (see fie. 8).
The first field of investigation was southern Indiana in the vicinity of New Albany. Here Guy Campbell, enthusiastic collector and student of Indiana Devonian, conducted the party to interesting localities. In southern Indiana the middle Devonian is divisible, in ascending order, into the Onondaga limestone, Delaware limestone, Silver Creek limestone and Beechwood limestone. In the latter occur nearly all the rare species cited above, making it reasonably certain that the Beechwood limestone correlates with the Centerfield limestone.
In southwestern Hlinois, near Anna and Jonesboro, faulted blocks of Paleozoic rocks expose middle Devonian sediments. Here a sandstone or limestone of Onondaga age is overlain by the dark Misenheimer shale. Over this is the Lingle limestone, which contains Vitulina in abundance. This species and the brachiopod Centronella (see fig. 8) are also present in Indiana. The Lingle limestone, according to these and other fossils, appears to be at least partially equivalent to the Beechwood.
From southern Illinois the party traveled to Iowa to study the Cedar Vallev formation which extends in a narrow belt northwest across Iowa from Davenport through Mason City to southeastern Minnesota. The formation is divisible into three members, all profusely

<<<Page: 187>>>

: ; f PEE he ad} ppeyso}uay peppeté ysIyM JoARY Avg Jspunyy uo ,,foor,, jo doy ‘zi “yoy ‘euad;y ‘ouojsouny euadiy oY} Ul ,, Jood,, JO SSeUL Us g ‘QS euUeIpUy WOT SNyoIADAIp safiads ‘L fpmpng.4 ‘QO Svbksvang “bh Suesiyoiyy wosy
pudtysojIv 7 co DJJIUOAJMWID) *S /plsoydosoun Z 4G pue I “UOZIIOY PfeYtoJUs) 9} 0} ST ‘UOJULA JO jseay}sOU ‘AtIeNC) WAeYy Ss purysy ATjaxy JO ssurpyinq Joyjo pue Joysniyg ‘I—6 ‘91

<<<Page: 188>>>

fossiliferous. In Iowa the party was guided by Dr. Stainbrook, who has been a student of the Iowa Devonian for many years.
It has long been known that the Cedar Valley formation holds no fossils relating it to the middle Devonian of southwestern Illinois. The present studies in Iowa were made to prepare the party to investigate Devonian rocks in the western part of the southern peninsula of Michigan in order to detect similarities, or a correlation, between Iowa and Michigan.
In and about the resort village of Petoskey on the west side of Michigan the upper part of the middle Devonian is exposed in quarries and in cliffs on the shore of Lake Michigan. This section has been separated into three divisions ; the uppermost or Petoskey formation, contains numerous fossils which suggest more or less vaguely the upper member of the Cedar Valley.
In and about Alpena County, Mich., is exposed one of the finest Middle Devonian sections in the world. The lowest bed of the section is the soft Bell shale, which is followed by the Rockport limestone (see fig. g). This 1s succeeded by the Long Lake series, composed of shale and thin beds of limestone. On this series rests the Alpena limestone, more than 120 feet thick and nearly completely exposed in the huge quarry of the Michigan Alkali Company just outside Alpena City. The Alpena limestone 1s overlain by shales and limestones of the Thunder Bay series.
Correlations of the above series were established by the party as follows: the Thunder Bay series appears to be equivalent to the Petoskey formation of western Michigan. All the exposed rock below the Petoskey formation appears to equal the greater part of the Alpena limestone. At the top of the Alpena limestone on Thunder Bay River Spirifer divaricatus was discovered associated with other New York fossils, indicating a correlation with the Centerfield formation of New York.
Deserted by Warthin and Stainbrook at Alpena, Cloud and Cooper started for Washington via southwestern Ontario. Here a visit was made to Charles Southworth, local geologist and collector, who conducted his guests to many fine localities. In the midst of the Ontario section is a 1-foot limestone bed overlain by a 4-foot coral bed containing many important Centerfield fossils: Cyclorhina, Parazyga, Spirifer divaricatus, and Camerophoria. Thus the Centerfield horizon was established in a great arc from eastern Michigan through New York, into southern Indiana and southwestern Illinois. The problem of Iowa correlations must be left to the future.

<<<Page: 189>>>

MVAINERAL-COLLEECRING TRIP THROUGH CEMEE By MARK C. BANDY
To collect minerals throughout the length of Chile, the writer spent 4 months in the field under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the Mineralogical Museum of Harvard University.
Some parts of northern Chile are the dryest areas on the earth. One spot has a record of a quarter of an inch of rainfall in a period of 20 years, and rain is wholly unknown in other areas. This low rainfall has produced areas favorable to the formation of water-soluble sulfates and nitrates, minerals for which Chile is noted. Iquique, Chile, near the northern end of the “ nitrate pampa,” was the main nitrate port in the early days of the industry, but has lost much of its commerce to Antofagasta. Its past glory is reflected in the beautiful buildings and boulevards and a fine plaza.
As one climbs over the coast range by train or auto to the central valley to the east, one passes between the two famous silver camps of Huantajaya and Santa Rosa. Both of these districts are now dead and the workings inaccessible except for two projects being subsidized by the government. Huantajaya is most unimpressive today, yet one cannot help speculating as to the fate of the 700-pound specimen of almost pure silver that was taken from the Mina San Simon and presented to the king of Spain almost a hundred years ago. The “nitrate pampa”’ extends north of Iquique to the city of Pisagua, but the center of mining in the north is Iquique, and in the central valley, Huari. The deposits of nitrate occur at the coast in the vicinity of Pisagua, but gradually move inland to the south until at the southern extremity they are about a hundred miles inland. At the northern end they lie on the western slopes of the Central Valley and at the south on the eastern slopes. In the north the valley floor is covered with thick beds of salt and sulfates, especially alum, whereas up the slope there is a rude zoning of minerals.
To the south the rich beds of nitrate begin to disappear, and in the central area the nitrate occurs disseminated in sediments, mostly volcanic ash. The central area is the most active today, and both Antofagasta and Tocopilla are shipping ports.
One object of this trip was to collect meteorites. Northern Chile has produced many meteorites, probably more different falls than any

<<<Page: 190>>>

Fic. 10.—Oficina Progresso, near Huari, Chile. The oficina was preparing for the Independence Day celebration and had taken limbs from a pepper tree and tied them to pipes set in the ground. These limbs were brought from a distance and were the only green thing in sight.
——— de SR RNICER
4 SAME U ee ALMACEN, FERRE TERE my y yy La MACON Pen cconmmp: Fil oad
Fig. 11—The Main Street of Union, Chile, one of the principal towns on the central pampa. The merchants believe in advertising. The street is unique in having only one side to it.
A he ie ae Paton 2S ae sy
Fic. 12.—The rich hill of Chanarcillo, Chile.

<<<Page: 191>>>

Fic. 13.—A street of Copiapo, Chile.
Fic. 14—A miner in the Oficina Chacabuco. The pile of material is nitrate ore or “ caliche.”” The miner works on a contract and piles up his caliche in this manner. Later an engineer comes and measures the pile and estimates the quantity and grade and pays the miner accordingly.

<<<Page: 192>>>

other area of equal size. One reason for this is the lack of vegetation. Meteorites falling in this area strike rocky ground and do not penetrate deeply. Slight erosion brings them to the surface, and with weathering and disintegration at a minimum, the meteorites are preserved. Wandering miners and prospectors pick up these heavy pieces and carry them to towns or camps in the hope that they may contain some valuable metal. When they are found to be free of any precious metal, they are discarded. Some find their way into the hands of people who appreciate their value and are preserved, but many more are lost. The writer obtained four meteorites and heard reports of scores more. Many specimens of iron ore that have been sand-blasted and polished on the pampa are cherished in collections in Chile as meteorites. The writer drove over 300 miles in search of a meteorite only to find it was a piece of hematite.
Many of the famous mineral localities of Chile are located on the western slope of the Andes. Challacollo to the north was a source of many fine specimens of rare minerals, but today the district is deserted. Chuquicamata, on the other hand, is a mineral collectors’ paradise today. This great deposit has yielded many new minerals in the past. The most recent mineral to come from Chuquicamata is the hydrous copper molybdate, lindgrenite. Many specimens of this unique mineral were collected. About 10 miles southwest of Chuquicamata and 5 miles west of Calama is the Mina Quetena, a unique deposit of sulfate minerals. The mine was opened on a small irregular stockwork of quartz veins in an igneous flow or still, at the contact wi‘h a Jurassic series of cherty limestones. Such a stockwork is called a “ rebosadero”’ by the native miners. This small open pit about 75 by 120 feet and about 30 feet deep has yielded and still yields truly magnificent specimens of sulfates and chloride of iron and copper.
To the east of Chuquicamata and Calama rise the volcanic peaks that mark the frontier of Chile and Bolivia and Chile and the Argentine. Among these peaks that rise to over 20,000 feet are salt plains called “ salars.” Many of these salars carry high percentages of boron. In going from Calama to Ollagua one passes the town of Cebollar. The deserted borax works at this station once supplied the world market. The entire output of this deposit was hauled in oxen carts over 200 kilometers to the coast in the early days. Beyond Cebollar one comes to the Chilian frontier town of Ollagua, nestling among towering volcanoes, some of which smoke continuously. To the southwest of the town is the great mass of Cerro Auncanquilcha. The summit of this volcano is covered with a thick mantle of sulfur that is

<<<Page: 193>>>

Fie. 15.—The open pit of the Mina Quetena, a small mine that has yielded many fine specimens of sulfate minerals.
PSE eS <a Sad RD SSR
Fic. 16.—The main entrance to the Mina Alcaparrosa, Tierra Amarilla, Chile. The workings on the two lenses are shown in the picture.

<<<Page: 194>>>

being mined today. This mine, with workings that extend from an altitude of 18,500 feet to 20,100 feet, was visited in search of sulfur crystals. This is believed to be the highest mine in the world.
As one passes south, vegetation begins to appear on the hilltops, and at Copiapo the traveler encounters the fertile valley watered by the Rio Copiapo. Copiapo, with its dusty streets and old houses, does not reflect its past glory. To the mineralogist, interested in Chilian mineral localities, the town recalls the famous silver camps of Chimbero, Puquitos, Chanarcillo, Tres Puntas Elisa de Bordos, Cabeza de Vaca, San Antonio, and the mineral localities of Tierra Amarilla, Nantoko, Cerro Blanco, Paposa. The only one of these famous silver camps working now is the Elisa de Bordos, operated by government subsidy.
South of Copiapo vegetation begins to appear on the lower slopes of the mountains. A half-day’s ride on the train takes one into the beautiful and fertile valley around the city of Vallenar. There is some gold mining in this district today, but the famous copper, lead, and silver mines of the past decades are closed and abandoned. Another half-day’s ride brings one to the twin cities of La Serena and Coquimbo at the mouth of a fertile valley on the coast. These old cities were the center of vigorous mining activity during the past century. The famous silver camps of Arqueros, Rosilla, and Rodaito are near them, and the old and rich gold district of Punitaqui and Andacolla are only a short distance from Coquimbo.
Santiago and Valparaiso offer much to the mineralogist and visitor and are happy places in which to end a mineralogical tour. The energetic collector can search out many collections of fine, old-time specimens in the hands of the old families. In Santiago one can see the collection of the great Chilian mineralogist, Ignacio Domeyko, now in the hands of his two grandsons. In Valparaiso one can see the collection of Don Gustavo Gambler assembled about 75 years ago and in its present state probably the most unique collection in the world. Without exception all of the people in these two cities interested in mining and minerals are most hospitable, and the visitor bids them “adios ” with regret.
The collections exceeded a ton in weight. A number of fine and rich silver minerals were obtained, but the most important materials are the rich suites of sulfates and chlorides of copper and of iron, for which Chile is so well known. Beside many rare minerals, there were also a few new mineral species. A considerable amount of fine exhibition material was obtained.

<<<Page: 195>>>

MAMMALS OF THE FLORIDA KEYS BY GERRIT'S. MiEGMER, jr:
Curator, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum
During December, 1934, and January and February, 1935, I visited the part of Florida that extends from Miami to Key West. My objects were to compare conditions in this tropical area with those that [ had previously met with in the West Indies, and to make general collections of material needed in the National Museum. Of chief importance were the mammals that are peculiar to the Florida Keys.
In the Miami region during December, as well as on the Florida Keys during January and the first half of February, vegetative activity seemed almost at a standstill, especially after the cold weather that set in about December 15. Blooming plants were few and inconspicuous outside of the gardens; and even the gardens and the cultivated shrubbery appeared dull and dormant as compared with their condition after the middle of February. Birds, except the white-eyed vireos on the Keys, were noticeably silent. The whole impression was that of a definite winter season during which the activities of both plant and animal life were being interfered with, as in the North, by cold weather. I have seen no such seasonal temperature check of biotic activity at sea level in the Lesser Antilles, Jamaica, Hispaniola, or Puerto Rico.
Though the land mammal fauna of the Florida Keys is neither rich nor varied, it presents some interesting problems of differentiation and distribution. Rather surprisingly, no less than five mammals (a deer, a cotton-rat, and raccoons representing three races) have never been found elsewhere than on this chain of small islands that extends from Key Largo southwesterly to Key West. On the contrary, the common mammals of the Florida mainland have made so little progress in establishing themselves on the Keys that, except on the northernmost islands nearest to the coast, they appear to have no representative other than the marsh rabbit. Smallness of land area, paucity of humus, abundance of hermit crabs, and the destructive action of hurricane floods appear to be the principal factors that have excluded these animals from most of the Upper Keys.
Physiographically, the Florida Keys present little variety. They are low, flat masses of limestone separated from the neighboring main-

<<<Page: 196>>>

Fic. 17.—Margin of hammock. Upper Matecumbe Key.
al i
Fic. 19.—Young mangroves. Cudjoe Key.

<<<Page: 197>>>

& a ~ : + eat &
Fic. 20—Haunts of the Key Deer.
Fic. 22.—Indian site. Plantation Key.

<<<Page: 198>>>

land of southern Florida by the shallow water of the Bay of Florida. Where it has not been cleared, much of the surface of the Upper Keys, and of the Lower Keys except Big Pine, Little Pine, and Cudjoe, bears a densely interlaced hammock growth of tropical trees (fig. 17). This type of woodland is very different from the pine-palm association found on some of the Lower Keys (fig. 18). Along the saline edges of the islands the usual growths of mangroves and buttonwood are met with (figs. 19 and 20). Though open grassland is uncommon, some rather extensive areas of such growth are to be found on Big Pine Key (fig. 21).
Of the characteristic mammals the raccoons, collected and described by the late E. W. Nelson in 1930 (see his paper entitled “ Four new raccoons from the Keys of Southern Florida,’ Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 82, no. 2, pp. I-12, pls. 1-5, July 10, 1930), are abundant and easily observed, especially the small, pallid Procyon lotor incautus of the Lower Keys, which is often seen running about during the day. The Key deer, though unrestricted killing by the most destructive of methods has greatly depleted its numbers, has not yet been wholly exterminated. It is confined to the Lower Keys, where its present distribution appears to be essentially the same as it was when investigated by Barbour about 15 years ago. (See Barbour and Allen, Journ. Mamm., vol. 3, pp. 74-75, May 1922.) Deer tracks may still be found in some places like the one shown in figure 20. The Key cotton-rat probably occurs wherever there are suitable grass lands on the Lower Keys. A view of such a locality on Big Pine Key is given in figure 21.
Indian deposits, usually situated on the Bay side of the islands, occur on most of the larger Keys. They are being rapidly obliterated by removal of their earth for use on fields and gardens. One of them undergoing such destruction (on Plantation Key) is shown in figure 22. It is greatly to be hoped that these deposits may be thoroughly investigated before they are totally ruined. There can be little doubt that they now contain material of much interest to both anthropology and zoology.

<<<Page: 199>>>

SO DYING SEE AVEPHIBLAN IchhE Ol BRAZIE
By DORIS M. COCHRAN Assistant Curator, Division of Reptiles and Batrachians, U. S. National Museum
On January 5, 1935, I sailed for Brazil at the invitation of Dr. Adolpho Lutz, to study the frogs of southeastern Brazil in field and laboratory and to collaborate with Dr. Lutz on a paper on the Hylidae.
The first several weeks of my stay in Rio de Janeiro were spent mostly at the Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, with which Dr. Lutz has long had an important connection, where I studied the preserved frogs and took notes from Dr. Lutz’ observations on their life histories. The Instituto, a Moorish building of startling beauty set on one of the hills rising sharply from the sinuous shore of the bay, was founded by the late Dr. Oswaldo Cruz, who was noted for his splendid work in fighting all manner of tropical disease. Its members now devote themselves to medical research of many kinds, and there is a hospital attached to the Instituto to which travel daily many people of the poorer classes afflicted with malaria, leprosy, elephantiasis, and other ailments which are the scourge of the Tropics.
Many short field trips were made into the mountains surrounding the city of Rio de Janeiro, as well as some longer ones to Petropolis, the summer capital of the emperors in the Organ Mountains, where important material was obtained. On one night-collecting trip in a florist’s garden near Rio I captured many interesting forms with the aid of a flashlight and was fortunate enough to see nests of the giant tree-toad Hyla faber. It was a most surprising bit of architecture, fully a foot long and 4 inches high, made of mud heaped up and hollowed out crater-fashion, so that the rim of the crater came slightly above the surface of the water, while the central depression contained an inch or two of water in which we saw a great mass of frogs’ eggs. In this way the depredations of egg-eating fishes are forestalled, and by the time the hatching has taken place and the young tadpoles have been washed into the big pool by a heavy rain, they are able to swim and in some degree escape or hide from their numerous destroyers.
For 3 weeks in March collections were made in the state of Minas Geraes with the assistance of Dr. Lutz’ trained laboratory servant, Joaquim Venancio, who is especially adept at locating frogs in new, unexplored places and at catching them. Dr. and Mrs. Emmanuel Dias added much to the success of this expedition through their knowledge

<<<Page: 200>>>

dy} JO Saqn} YSe1} dAloo1 Ut asoy} WANJOI Ul pure ‘]Ize1g U1IYINOS Ul SI9UMO-puUR] pure SsotUIeF Aq URJULING OjNPYsSU] ay} 0} ATTY JUAS a1B SOYPUG “YSIP & OJUL Ssuvy MOTLOY 4} ysnoiy} uostod ay} Sulosioy sny} puke spue] e ul day oak Sayeus snouostod ‘ojneg oesg Pou ‘uejuRNg ONj{YsuT oy} JO uMIIejUSdIas BY} }YW— Ez “OLY

<<<Page: 201>>>

i ac hae,
Fic. 25..-This monument in the bay of Santos marks the spot where the first Portuguese colonists landed. Beyond it the flat beaches of fine gray sand and the gently breaking waves make one of the finest bathing grounds on the coast.
Fic. 26.—The typical rain-forest on the Serra da Cubatao, the range of mountains that overlooks the plain leading to Santos. This tract of land at Alto da Serra has been set aside as a biological station, especially for the growing of orchids, of which many species from all over the Tropics have been introduced.

<<<Page: 202>>>

of the country. Much collecting was done in and near Bello Horizonte, the city in which the naturalist Lund lived and wrote of Brazilian fauna. While there we collected at Lagoa Secca, a marvelous dry lake in a valley of iron soil. The road on the journey to it changes from yellow ochre mud to dry, powdery, burnt sienna iron dust, while the vegetation likewise changes completely from rich green grass to shrubby, dry-loving, leathery-leaved plants and bushes. We finally came to a broad, flat field in which little patches of shallow water reflected the sun. The place was alive with tiny frogs (Paludicola falcipes) skittering about in every direction with all the animation of grasshoppers. I went after them, but at first I got only one in every twenty that I chased. A 2-day excursion to Ouro Preto yielded a good series of frogs.
The rivers run with gold in Minas Geraes. From the train I saw strange rodentlike tunnels on the sandy shores of the Parahyba, and near them the big wooden sluicing troughs attended by 2 or 3 men and boys, who took enough gold in this primitive manner from the cloudy waters of the turbulent river to pay them amply for their labor. One of the oldest gold mines in Brazil is located at Morro Velho, over a few mountain ranges from Bello Horizonte. This mine has been in operation for over a century and a quarter, and has now reached the 29th level at a depth of over 8,000 feet, and the temperature is so great at this depth—138° F. in spite of cool water pumped in to cool the air—that the rich vein which goes down at a 45° angle will soon have to be abandoned. I was not allowed to descend into the mine, for superstition has it that if either a priest or a woman enters a mineshaft, some terrible disaster will overtake the miners the next day.
After leaving Bello Horizonte, the party proceeded to Lassance, a little railroad town 600 miles north of Rio de Janeiro, at which place the Instituto Oswaldo Cruz has a branch. An attempt was made to visit the type localities from which Dr. Lutz had formerly described new species. The last lap of the Minas trip extended north to Pirapora, on the Rio Sao Francisco, where the collecting of frogs and fish proved to be better than anywhere else. New genera and species of fish were taken from the river here, as this watershed had not formerly been worked by a collector.
After the return to Rio, preparations were made to go south to Sao Paulo to visit the Instituto Butantan, which is under the efficient direction of Dr. Afranio do Amaral. Two days were spent in Butantan seeing the excellent scientific work being done there in making serum, not only for snake bite but also for smallpox and various other infec

<<<Page: 203>>>

“IOYSIY PUR TIYSIY ISO SMOPRYS 94} SB UOOUAYe AJOAD A ie) satoods JILLOSIU oy JAJeou ULT[IQIS “Yl iN “SITY
JO 9}e}SO9 94} UO $9013 DidotI7 9) 10 dnois e& Ysnosy} uUsas St (SOUDJG OMT) SPIpIq Send po[[eo ‘UoTPeULIOY [NZNRaq
SIU. “OM} UT sqyds Ud}JO syeod podeys-auo0o 94} JO JUOYS SurT[quinas }JOS IY} “9}BS Jey} fo jaed 19}v918 oy} Ysnotyy
puojxXo pue OsloURf op OLY jo AWD 94} pulyeq jJredues

<<<Page: 204>>>

tious diseases. Owing largely to the fine work of this institute, the public health in Sao Paulo seems to be decidedly better than that in the surrounding country. A visit to the Museu Paulista at Ypiranga under Dr. Amaral’s guidance afforded an opportunity to obtain from the director, Dr. Taunay, some extremely valuable bird and mammal skins of which there were formerly no examples in the United States National Museum collection. Permission was granted by Dr. Hoehne, the eminent botanist, to visit the biological station at Alto da Serra, a beautiful bit of rain forest on the crest of the Serra da Cubatao between Sao Paulo and Santos. A number of rare frogs were obtained in the 3 days of collecting there.
On one excursion down the mountain we found specimens of a tiny yellow and brown toadlike creature (Dendrophryniscus), which amusingly “ played dead” on the palms of our hands, lying on their backs with the hind legs stiffened and the eyes shut. In a little mountain brook we found a shy green frog (Crossodactylus) sitting in rock crevices, into which it would disappear unless one grabbed very quickly. We found toads hopping among the leaves, and tiny Hylodes, the frog which skips the tadpole stage entirely, the young emerging directly from the eggs which are buried in clay or soft earth. When I turned over stones in the brook, sometimes short, broadbeamed crayfish blundered slowly out, looking more like fossil trilobites than like their agile, streamlined relations in North America. But again I was struck with the extreme paucity of animal life in places where one would expect to find it in utmost abundance in North America.
My last important excursion, made in the company of Dr. Lutz and his daughter, was in early May to Nova Friburgo in the heart of the Organ Mountains 5 hours by train from the city of Rio de Janeiro. Here the party was most cordially entertained for 5 days by an American lady, Mrs. V. E. Schilling, on whose large estate some interesting frogs were collected, although as the cold season was approaching, it was not easy to find them in numbers.
I sailed for New York on May 23, having successfully obtained permission to bring my large collection out of Brazil. The material, when unpacked and distributed in the National Museum, proved to be of great interest to all the departments concerned, particularly since the localities visited were those from which the National Museum had not received any material of importance in most orders.

<<<Page: 205>>>

HANCOCK BACIEIC EXPEDITION, 71935 By WALDO Ey SCHMID
Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National Museum
The famed bird islands of Peru were one of the objectives of the Hancock Expedition of 1934-35, Santa Rosa Island, Peru, marking the southernmost point reached by the cruise. The guano deposits of these islands, which have been known and exploited since the days of the Incas, are still a profitable source of income because of the wise conservation policy inaugurated by the Peruvian government some years ago and the strictly enforced protection afforded the birds. One of these Peruvian bird islands is a never-to-be-forgotten sight. One sees thousands upon thousands of birds on land, in the air, and over the sea. The ground is literally black with them. So close together are their bare little nesting sites that an alighting bird has scarcely room to set its feet, and, to all appearance, does so only at imminent risk of life and limb, so vigorously do the neighboring home owners thrust, peck, and jab at it. It is one of the marvels of nature that birds from among so many thousands can so unerringly find their own nests again after a day spent fishing at sea, often miles away.
Santa Rosa Island marks the southern boundary of Independencia Bay, where we were anchored at the time of our visit. Numerous dredge hauls were made up, down, and across the bay, and several shore stations were occupied. Scallops were found to be plentiful in the shoal waters of the eastern side. From burrows high up in the sides of Vieja Island, forming the western side of the bay, half a dozen live penguins were obtained.
On Santa Rosa the guano birds are almost exclusively whitebreasted cormorants, or guanayes, as they are also on the Chinchas Islands, which we visited the middle of January. After a short stop for dredging and for shore collecting, we proceeded to Lobos de Afuera, where further dredging operations and shore collecting were undertaken. On this compact group of islets, which are among the most northern of the Peruvian bird islands, the large pelican, or alcatraz, peculiar to the Humboldt current, is the chief guano-producing bird.
Along the Ecuadorean coast we stopped at Manta where considerable shore collecting was accomplished. Dredging was attempted, but

<<<Page: 206>>>

Yorol OY 9a[qe Sel BOWED AU UCL JoOuJIe UB IAS UBD IAD DL } se jAel S$ 2) p10) | } IQeXQ——— 2) | SeM {} | } | L a | eB a] Di OIOAS DI Ke $s BL > OL } IN pure] (2 STG: £ 5 . a ) O
(*SpurR[ST SBUYSUIL eB Toye 215 Ss ee oan ee ae te L if i ID } ! ale yde1rsojoyd ) ‘Sp4iq 94} o1e shotauNu os I I L ‘}ysou 94} JCUAIE Sayed} PUR SayBU oY, “SpUNOIS SUIpso} Ary} OF JY SI Ul sodvurnty—O6z “DIT peskea. edi ena le Br ON
aor ae % oe rt . a . ; : cae 4 Fh © Ft : Bass *, j é : : ty + Ay ig ; < € ¥ , die y Ft v4 Gs ‘ : ht + « ny ¥ # 2 x : See # 4 % be a ty tH > OF an . ae. eal “i 4 ee @ a : : , 4 oe ee ar Fe . ee las re

<<<Page: 207>>>

Fic. 31.—Nesting
x guanayes, Phalacrocorax bougainvillet, Santa Rosa Island. lhe bold headland, Morro Quemado, on the mainland side marks extremity of Independencia Bay.
the southern
Fic. 32.—Hood Island albatrosses, Diomedea irrorata, fencing with their bills. One of the figures of their celebrated dance.
~ ae
Fic. 33.—South Seymour Island. Bob Irwin with one of a dozen land iguanas, Conolophus subcristatus, captured for a museum group. There is a second iguana to the right of the central cactus which, together with rocks, soil, dry grass, dead wood, and stunted shrubbery near by, were all brought back as accessories for this exhibit.

<<<Page: 208>>>

with no great success because of the high winds prevailing during our stay at this port. From Guayaquil, a trip was made to Quito as guests of Captain Hancock. He had been invited by the Ecuadorean Government to give an account of his Galapagos explorations and to present his motion pictures before the President and other officials of the Republic, the diplomatic corps, and their guests. The journey to Quito was made in the President’s private railway car. It was a most exciting journey for those of us who had never before traveled so high in the Andes. We climb from sea level at the coast to a height of 11,800 feet to cross one of the spurs of Chimborazo, whose summit still towers another 10,000 feet above us. We drop again on the other side of the mountain to the level of the valley floor where Quito is located 9,000 feet above the sea. All along the upper levels on the way to Quito we pass through a succession of most fertile valleys, all cultivated as far as the eye can reach right up to the winter snow line of Chimborazo. Eucalyptus trees are extensively planted for firewood and lend the same picturesqueness to the landscape in all directions that they do in California. No end of scenes and vistas, including the red-tiled roofs of the ’dobe huts, are reminiscent of California. Yet, with the sheep and cattle and goats, and the cultivated patches of green garden land reaching far up the mountain sides, the country is for all the world like Switzerland. I know now why the Indians and natives down here affect the bright orange, red, brown, and blue ponchos that they wear—to illumine artistically the gorgeous landscapes, which, however, really need no adornment. Everything fits together so well in a picturesque, scenic way, that proper words of description fail one. One needs to see this country in order to realize its beauty. This year’s collecting in the Galapagos began at Marchena, or sindloe, Island on December 2. Some of the best hauls for echinoderms we ever made in the Galapagos were those off the northeastern shore of this island. Two days later we moved to Charles Island, some go miles to the south. On our arrival we learned that Dr. Ritter, our acquaintance of former visits, had died on November 21, 13 days before, and that the so-called Baroness had disappeared with one of her companions, Robert Philippson. The other, Rudolf Lorenz, together with a Norwegian fisherman, had perished of thirst on Marchena, where we had already seen their sun-bleached and mummified bodies. Thus, of the nine settlers who were on Charles Island the year before, only four, the Wittmer family consisting of father, mother, and two sons, remain today. Dr. Ritter’s companion, Doré Koerwin, returned to Germany.

<<<Page: 209>>>

Fic. 34.—Columbian Indians paying the Velero I[// an early morning visit, Port Utria, January 26, 1935.
43 "ie
Fic. 35—Mountain valley, Sierra region of Ecuador, from the train en route to Quito. Far above the valley floor, a little below the railway, the auto highWay is seen.

<<<Page: 210>>>

The two salt crater lakes near Tagus Cove, Albemarle Island, and the one on James Island were visited for the purpose of obtaining water samples, salt crusts, and deposits for examination by Dr. Thomas G. Thompson, of the Oceanographic Laboratories of the University of Washington. From the larger of the two saline lakes near Tagus Cove a number of marine fish (/ucinostomus californiensis ), several mollusks, a few small crustaceans, and a filamentous green alga were taken. Only the brine shrimp, Artemia, was found in the crater lake on James Island. Both of these last named lakes had been visited by Darwin just about a hundred years before and are described in his “ Journal of Researches ” and in his “ Volcanic Islands.”
High up on Chatham Island is a large fresh-water lake, 1 Junco, of which we could see but a few yards of shore line, so heavy and thick was the chilly rainlike mist, or garua, that continued the whole time that we were at the lake and during our horseback ride to and from it, a trip of some 4 hours’ duration. We made several seine hauls in the lake but netted nothing in the way of animal life except a few water beetles.
At South Seymour, the one island where land iguanas still exist in their original abundance, about a dozen iguana skins, a cactus, several hundred pounds of rocks, soil, shrubbery, grass, and dead wood were gathered for an exhibit group. In this connection, various members of the scientific staff and crew rendered yeoman service, catching iguanas and skinning them, the chief burden of this latter operation being borne by the surgeon, Dr. Kraft, and the purser, Bob Irwin.
More members of the albatross colony on Hood Island were found at home than on either of our previous visits, nearly 30 birds in all. The dozen or so eggs found lying about were old and addled. Three were secured for the National Museum.
In route to Callao, Peru, early in January, another hydrographic section of the Humboldt current in that latitude was made, and serial temperatures and water samples were obtained for study at the Scripps Institution. A number of dredge hauls were made in Callao Bay and along the seaward side of Fronton Island.
On the way north stops of several days’ duration were made at Gorgona Island, Port Utria, and Octavia Bay, Colombia; At Port Utria numerous specimens of the Indo Pacific coral-gall crab infesting the branching coral, Pocillopora, were collected, establishing the first record for the species in the Western iemisphere. This species of crab, Hapalocarcinus marsupialis, was found to range as far north as the Secas Islands, Republic of Panama, north of the Canal Zone. It

<<<Page: 211>>>

oS) cn
Fic. 36—Coral gall crab, Hapalocarcinus marsupialis, from Port Utria, Colombia. Dorsal and vente views of female (a, )) from cracked gall (ce, f). A eall beginning to form (c), due to mechanical or chemical irritation set up by the young crab, eventually grows so as to enclose the female crab permanently ima) stone cell (d) from which there is no escape except for newly hatched young through the “ breathing”” pores which never grow shut as long as the crab lives. Apparently the female crab, like the queen bee, is fertilized but once before the gall is finally closed off.

<<<Page: 212>>>

was at the Secas Islands, reached on February 4, that we established the farthest north record on the Central American west coast for Hapalocarcinus and also captured our first and only porpoise, another specimen of the rare Prodelphinus gratfmani taken by us last year at Gorgona Island, Colombia. On these supposedly dry islands—so listed in the coast pilot—we found a small stream of running water, got a couple of freshwater fish, a number of freshwater shrimps, and two snakes.
Along the Costa Rican coast, shore collections and dredgings were made in three well-known bays—Playa Blanca, Port Parker, and Salinas Bay. The last named is to be the terminus of the proposed Nicaraguan canal.
Three days later, on February 15, we made Tenacatita Bay, Mexico, and with further collecting at this previously visited locality obtained a number of invertebrates not encountered in our collection the year before. An attempt was made to leave Tenacatita on the 16th, but the weather was so rough outside that after 2 hours of the worst buffeting I have ever experienced at sea, Captain Hancock put back to port. By the next midday the wind had veered from north to south, laid the waves considerably, and made a second start northward practicable, though not altogether comfortable. Brief stops were made at Santa Maria Bay and Cedros Island, Lower California, to get the ship ready for San Diego.
Scarcely 24 hours were spent at San Diego, where we discharged the live animal cargo chiefly purchased by Captain Hancock for the San Diego Zoo. We arrived at the Velero III’s home port, Los Angeles Harbor, Saturday, February 23, 1935, after another memorable and scientifically very successful cruise.
Again the Institution is greatly indebted to Captain Hancock for the unexcelled facilities afforded for the study of the marine life of little known and seldom visited shores of the west coast of South and Central America and Mexico, the Galapagos and other islands, and for the very valuable collections, numbering several thousand specimens, that have come to the National Museum as a result of his generosity.

<<<Page: 213>>>

GREENLAND EXPEDITION OF 1935 Bye CNP Rs Ac BA ca a
The summer expedition of 1935 under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, was again carried out in my schooner Morrissey, our tenth expedition into either the western or eastern Arctic. To help finance the expedition, out WOd} O4ll JurIeUu jo SUOT}III[[OO SUIyeUL AINOS Iq7— 6¢ OT

<<<Page: 214>>>

visiting Dr. Martin Porsild, we left for the site on Disco where iron ore has been obtained. As the Division of Mineralogy of the National Museum had suggested the desirability of collecting specimens of native iron from this famous locality, we landed at the point picked out by the Governor. Above the summer tide line, but below the shale which here descends to the beach as a high cut bank, lies the basalt ridge in which the ore was originally found. Under the direction of the geologist, the work of opening the vein and dislodging pieces of ore was carried out. After about 12 hours of hard labor, the yield was so small that the diggings were abandoned—hasalt poor in iron could be produced in any quantity, but basalt rich in iron or nuggets of the pure ore could be obtained only by work entailing the use of pneumatic drills by a skilled crew. We had, by this time, several hundred pounds of the ore in pieces varying as much in size as in quality, most of them small, but some of them very good specimens.
We stopped at the Eskimo village on the south side of Cape York Bay. Here lives Oota, the only one alive today of the four Eskimos who went with Peary to the North Pole. Every time he comes out of his igloo he can see the Peary Monument 10 miles away on the top of Cape York. We anchored in the cove on the north side of the Cape, and on climbing up to the monument we were pleased to find it as sound as the day we completed it, 3 years ago. The wind at this height, 1,500 feet above sea level near open water, no doubt often reaches a velocity of over 100 miles an hour in winter.
At Parker Snow Bay Dr. Soutter spent a few hours dredging and hauling his plankton net. Then we went on to Thule, where we met Hans Petersen, the Governor. After a delightful visit, we proceeded to the bottom of Inglefield Gulf. Here, from the village of Kangerdlooksa, we took on several [eskimos, one of whom was Tongwe, one of Peary’s hunters. After a day or two they secured the Narwhal family, male, female, and pup, that we came so far to get for the Field Museum. Dr. Soutter took all the necessary measurements and notes, and made the plaster casts. | paid the Eskimos off in anything we had that they wanted. They are grand people. To me they are all old friends. No one but those who have been with them can understand and appreciate their simple, but splendid, ways of living.
Leaving our Eskimo friends, we steered out of the Gulf and across Whale Sound. I intended to visit the winter quarters of Dr. Elisha Kent-Kane at Rennsselaer Harbor on the south side of Kane Basin, but as we met heavy ice coming out of the Basin and as our time was growing short, I began to work south for the Labrador coast, which

<<<Page: 215>>>

el ates
Fic. 41.—A polar bear on the ice of Melville Bay.
Itc. 42.—Northumberland Island to the left. Hakluyt Island to the right. Fog filling the Straits separating the two Islands.

<<<Page: 216>>>

we reached early in August. On the way we made many plankton hauls, and over the banks used the dredge.
These plankton hauls constituted no small part of our scientific work this year. Nearly a hundred of them were made. Forming the great base of the pyramid of life in the sea is the floating microscopic plant and animal life collectively called plankton. It forms the subsistence of animals larger than its component elements, and these in turn form the food of still larger forms of prime importance to man, such as schools of fish and various valuable marine mammals. Knowing this, it is easy to appreciate the important role that plankton plays in the economy of the sea, and to see why a search for further knowledge is desirable. Plankton studies prosecuted in England, for instance, show a positive correlation between the number of copepods (tiny crustacean forms frequently abundant in plankton hauls) and the catch of herring in a particular area.
The work of making these collections fell to Dr. Soutter. A perusal of his station records reveals that our “ farthest north” townet haul was made in Smith Sound, latitude 78° 21’ N., just off the edge of the polar ice sheet, in water having a surface temperature of but 1° above freezing. This farthest north haul was made at 10:30 p. m.; the coldest one at 9:12 a. m. the day following. Thus, one can see that our medical officer and chief collector was a very busy man, working both early and late. In Baffin Bay, just off Davis Strait, shortly before making a haul at 3:55 a. m., August 8, Dr. Soutter obServes, ounhighy roseat 2:45) a.m.
Dredge hauls were also consummated in a number of localities, in one case froma depth of 70 fathoms, or 420 feet. Our dredge nets are stout iron frames provided with a fine mesh bag of netting behind, protected by a coarser webbing and canvas on the outside. They are pulled over the bottom by line and bridle to scrape up such organisms as may be found there. In this manner we got quantities of shrimp, sea urchins, occasional fish, and samples of the material forming the bottom.
Around the 20th of August we reached Brigus, where we stayed for one day. Shortly after leaving Brigus, we ran into one of the twisters coming up from the south. We lost our foresail and storm trysail. The next stop was City Island, N. Y., and then we arrived at our old quarters at Staten Island, where the Morrissey will be laid up until the next northern cruise.

<<<Page: 217>>>

By EDWARD A. CHAPIN
Curator, Division of Insects, U. S. National Museum
During 1935 the Rev. David C. Graham continued his explorations in the province of Szechwan, China, for the Smithsonian Institution.
Conditions have been unfavorable fer exploration and collecting during the past year, owing to the unsettled political situation. The activities of the communists began to be felt in southern Szechwan early in the year, with the result that it was impossible to plan trips far ahead. As early as January 11 Dr. Graham wrote in his diary: “There are rumors that the communists from all over China are concentrating on Szechwan Province and may begin their attack at any time.” In April he wrote: “ The communist threat is very serious. We are living in hope.” Again, on the fifteenth of that month: “ We have been ordered by the Chengtu general to evacuate because he could not give us protection.” Exploration under such conditions cannot be entirely pleasant. However, he decided to send the netter, Mr. Zen, to Beh Luh Din for insects. Zen made the first trip successfully and was sent back to the same locality on April 18 to get more. This time luck failed and on his return to Chengtu, Zen was captured by government troops and put in jail as a communist spy. After considerable difficulty Dr. Graham persuaded their officials that although collecting insects may be a sign of mental incompetence, it does not necessarily denote communistic leanings. Perhaps if Dr. Graham could have known that later in the year Zen was going to run away with all his equipment, he might have felt differently about the matter. The fact that Zen took up the habit of opium smoking was probably largely respensible for his failure in line of duty.
On July 15 Dr. Graham took the skinner, Mr. Ho, with him intending to work in the region along the China-Yunnan border south of the city of Suifu. They went first to Kiating where passage on a river boat was booked as far as Suifu. From Suifu the trip was continued partly overland and partly by boat to Yueh K’eo and then to Hua Sai Ch’iao. All this was bringing the party closer and closer to the body of communists which was active in southern Szechwan. From Hua Sai Ch’iao to Kong-shien was another day, but here the party was halted by the officials. It was Dr. Graham’s desire to get as far as Lo Biao

<<<Page: 218>>>

Itc. 43.—View of the Yanetse River and part of the Yangtse Gorges above Ichang, China. (Photograph by D. C. Graham. )
Fic. 44.—View of Suifu, Szechwan, China, looking east. (Photograph by D. C. Graham.)

<<<Page: 219>>>

(eyes “9 ‘q Aq ydessojoyg) ‘opdutoy, (ueyelty ‘9 “q Aq Yydersojoyg ) : re ye sjueyday wosy Tug JUNOP jo MoaIA YW—OF “IY ‘Jaw JNoP Jo PwWUINS ay} Jvou sJdwWa} WEF “OIY

<<<Page: 220>>>

before starting serious collecting, but because of the communists, permission was refused to him to go forward. The party waited for 3 days, hoping that conditions would improve. When it was evident that no collecting could be done this year at Lo Biao, plans were reformulated, and Dr. Graham and Ho returned to Suifu by way of Tsang Gin. A few mammals, snakes, and insects were obtained, but on the whole the trip was a failure.
Because of the blocked roads and other factors, Dr. Graham decided to work the slopes and top of Omeishan or Mount Omei, one of the sacred mountains of China. It rises some 11,000 feet from the great plain of Niating, about 2 days’ journey from Chengtu. Being a sacred spot, the mountain has been more or less “ preserved,” and the trail leads up through dense forest except where the native rock outcrops. From time to time the traveler comes upon a temple or monastery, perched on some ledge overlooking the plain below. Once he has passed the foothills, his further ascent is by an interminable succession of stone steps, and the climb is not one for a weakling. Here and there the trail passes beneath a memorial stone arch, again the way 1s along the edge of a precipice where a false step is the certain road to Eternity. As altitude is gained, the temples become more frequent, and at last the traveler stands on the apex of one of the three peaks that cap Omeishan, the highest holy place in all China. This year, even here on this sacred mountain, conditions are not normal, for, as Dr. Graham wrote under date of August 28, ** This (Omeihsien, at the base of Mount Ome1) is now the main military training camp for all China. Very large electric lights are visible for long distances 1n several places. This makes moth catching at night much harder in the lower altitudes. A very strict guard is kept on the roads and paths on the mountain, which makes it more difficult for the collectors to move about. It is not advisable to do much shooting, lest the soldiers get unduly excited.”
Notwithstanding these handicaps, Dr. Graham and his collectors succeeded in sending to the Smithsonian Institution considerable material during the year. Additional specimens of rare mammals such as the giant panda (Aiuropoda melanoleucus ), the blue sheep (Pseudois nayaur szechuanensis), and the goral (Naemorhaedus goral griseus ) were received, as well as many thousand insects and the smaller vertebrates. Special attention was given to the crane flies (family Tipulidae), and among the thousands of specimens collected there are some very interesting species.

<<<Page: 221>>>

AntGhE OLOGICAL EXPEDITION TO KODIAK ISLAND, PES
3y ALES HRDLICKA Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U.S. National Museum
The 1935 season's work at Uyak Bay, Kodiak Island, constituted the fourth year of excavations at this important pre-Russian site. The work this season lasted from May 27 to August 17 inclusive, and its results were gratifying, including the addition to the national collections of 46 boxes of scientific material.
Credit for the success 1s due in large measure to the generous assistance received by the expedition, as in former years, from the Alaska Packers Association of San Francisco and particularly from the Superintendent of its Larsen Bay Cannery, Gordon Jones; to the collaboration of eight volunteer university professors and students, more particularly Josef Barton (University of Texas), Dr. EF. H. Bell (University of Nebraska), Robert Heizer (University of California), Charles B. McKee ( University of California), George A. Seib (Washington University, St. Louis), and Tom Weber (Washington University) ; and to exceptionally favorable weather conditions during the summer.
Grateful acknowledgment is due to the United States Navy and particularly to Capt. John C. Cunningham and other officers of the U.S. S. Sirius, for aid in transporting the members of the party and the collections.
The work at Uyak Bay continued throughout the season with but slight interruptions. Two narrow-gage tracks with cars proved to be of much help with the diggings where the haul was too long for the wheelbarrows. Photography was favored by better atmospheric conditions and particularly by the aid of Dr. Bell in developing the pictures shortly after they were taken.
The outcome of the work proved to be valuable in many ways. A number of objects of new kinds were discovered ; in fact, hardly a day passed but that some specimen of hitherto unseen form or nature came to light. There were found caches of peculiar “ beads,” of bone points, and of stone and bone blades; an exceptional number of stone knives were uncovered, many undamaged and some of new forms; a series of finely wrought ivory pendants, pins, and other

<<<Page: 222>>>

-Jodns jo uonroy yess 4 soyejs iooejdaty Justoue
(} oO
s 94} UL YUNS SQeIS a}eIS OPS dU} fo
ay} Jo ouo Jo do¥R[do1y STIOJDeIeYS
SSUI[[IMp

<<<Page: 223>>>

Fic. 49.—A slab walk; one of several found in the deposits. Made of partly dressed slate slabs.
iG. 50.—An intermediary skeleton covered by slate slabs.

<<<Page: 224>>>

objects, with a specially well-wrought bear’s-head effigy, appeared ; four new human “ faces,” carved in bone, were added to our little gallery of * portraits’ from the site; and the whole was topped by a series of beautifully made and artfully decorated stone lamps. Four of the latter are of the largest size and the best workmanship thus far yielded by the deposits. One of these, especially, 164 inches long by 114 broad, is a fine example of native art.
The season’s work also yielded more than 60 skeletons of the people who once inhabited the site. These include some of the best specimens, both as to type and preservation, that have been found here. There were in addition many stray parts of skeletons, as well as large quantities of mammalian and bird bones, some of them of species not hitherto seen in the diggings.
Some very important new facts were obtained, too, regarding the older cultures of the site. Thus it has become certain that from the first the inhabitants of the place built partly subterranean or sunken dwellings ; but in the oldest the depressions were very moderate, probably owing to the difficulties involved in any deeper excavation in the glacial till, which is full of stones and boulders.
The area excavated, which included the heart of the site, now totals nearly 2 acres. About three-fourths of an acre of the more important deposits still remains to be excavated; this area includes a complex of habitations that have not yet been touched. As each such habitation presents cultural and other peculiarities of its own, it 1s certain that there is still much to be learned for the completion of the cultural picture of this important old settlement. In addition, more of the oldest skeletal remains are needed. All this will call for one more season of work.
It now appears fairly clearly that the history of the site is, in brief, as follows:
At some period in the distant past, but probably not over 2,500 years ago, the rocky point on which the settlement was eventually established showed a bare or nearly bare surface covered by glacial till, and there must have been extensive areas of similar nature in the general vicinity. Then followed a relatively dry period during which the winds carried off the light, fine constituents of the till in neighboring parts of the island and deposited them in part on the point, where they formed what eventually became a layer of loess a few inches to nearly 2 feet thick—the “ butter earth ” of our excavations.
Then, before any appreciable vegetation covered the site, came the first settlers. They left a layer of shell, ash, and refuse a few inches thick, spreading over much but not all of the more available parts

<<<Page: 225>>>

i es as er oe
. ore cs SS 4. = ee ES a nce qe
Fic. 51.—A deep burial.
Fic. 52-—A nest of human skulls and bones.

<<<Page: 226>>>

of the point, and then apparently abandoned the site. This was followed by the deposition of 4 to 7 inches more of the loess, and then the location became reinhabited, never again to be vacated or to receive any further loess deposit. The people who first and for a long time thereafter occupied the place were neither true Eskimo nor Aleut, but a type whose nearest relatives appear to occur in the older parts of the mounds on Frazer River. These people occupied the site for centuries, until apparently about 400 years ago, when they were suddenly and completely—-or nearly so—displaced by the Aleuts
Fic. 53——An upper fireplace for heating stones to be used for cooking or sweat baths. Surrounded by a circle of upstanding slate slabs.
(‘‘ Koniags ”), who in turn forsook the village about the time of, or very soon after, the arrival of the Russians.
All these people left numerous burials in the deposits ; moreover, some early intrusive interments were introduced in the uppermost layer by the later natives, who occupied a few habitations in the neighborhood of Larsens Bay.
At no level has the site shown any traces of the white man’s influence, such as beads or metals. Even in the few intrusive burials, except two, the bodies lay in the old “ contracted” or fetus-in-utero position ; and in but one of these intrusive burials was there a rough Russian-type coffin.

<<<Page: 227>>>

A GIEIM PSE A Tak PAST IN MEXICO By NEIL M. JUDD
Curator, Division of Archeology, U. S. National Museum
The past still lives in Mexico. Religious centers abandoned prior to the advent of the Spaniards in 1519 have been brought to life once more; business is still carried on in villages where Cortez fought plumed Aztec legions and brazonly demanded substitution of the Virgin for the bloodthirsty figures of Huitzilopochtli and Tlaloc. I went to Mexico City as a member of the United States delegation to the Seventh American Scientific Congress, September 8-17, 1935, and as representative of the Smithsonian Institution, and remained to see two additional weeks crowded with the realization of dreams dreamt these many years.
Mexico City is ‘“‘ Mexico ” south of the Rio Grande. It was Mexico, island capital of the Aztecs, when Cortez and his 450 intrepid compatriots burned their ships on the Vera Cruz coast and set out to conquer a new world. Mexico today is the Mexico of 1519, vastly expanded. Where gardens, floated from Xochimilco, once delivered fresh vegetables and flowers to city doors, Colonial residences and modern office buildings now stand. Lake Texcoco has been reduced to a mere remnant of its former self; paved streets follow the course of old canals. The site of the principal Aztec Teocalli, or temple, is occupied by the present Cathedral, begun in 1573 and into whose foundations went the famous Calendar Stone and other treasures of the past to lie buried and forgotten three centuries before they were recovered and removed to the Museo Nacional for preservation. Close by, the National Palace was erected upon that of Montezuma. A single square to the north, and only a few feet below street level, the foundations of other Aztec structures razed by the Conquerors have been left exposed under protection of the Department of Prehispanic Monuments.
For a few centavos one may ride in a “ libri,’ Mexico’s ubiquitous taxicab, along the very line of the Coyoacan causeway on which Cortez crossed the lake to enter the city November 8, 1519, and one may leave by the Tacuba causeway, on which the Spaniards suffered such a devastating defeat during their midnight flight of July ro, 1520. A mile north of Tacuba is Atzcapotzalco, the Chichimeca town where most of Montezuma’s gold ornaments were made and whose ancient

<<<Page: 228>>>

Fic. 54.—The Municipality of Cholula has a church for each day of the year. This one crowns the Toltee pyramid of Quetzalcoatl.
Fic. 55.—Boys with patient bamboo poles catch tiny fish among the chinampas of Chalco, as boys did in the days before Cortez.

<<<Page: 229>>>

eS ie ae
Cia. Mexicana Aerofoto, S. A.
Fic. 56.—Through the archeological zone of Teotihuacan the Pathway of the
Dead extends from the Pyramid of the Moon, at the left, to the Citadel group, beyond the right hand margin.
St cotta oe oe te +. Cia. Mexicana Aerofoto, S. A. Fic. 57—Only from the air may one gain a comprehensive view of the terraced.
hills on which lie the ruins of Xochicalco.

<<<Page: 230>>>

rubbish heaps show Archaic, Voltec, and Aztec remains one above the other. In this section, as elsewhere throughout the Valley of Mexico, native villages still bear names recorded by Cortez 400 years ago. At Xochimilco and Chalco narrow gardens or chinampas, made of lake mud piled on reed mats, still produce the vegetables and flowers sold in city markets.
From Mexico a modern highway follows the old causeway northward to Tepeyac, where an Aztec temple to the goddess of Earth and Corn was later replaced by a shrine to the Virgin of Guadalupe, Patron Saint of the Republic. A few miles to the northeast is the fascinating Convent of San Agustin Acolman, through whose frescoed halls 8 feet of silt were deposited by the great flood of 1629. Here, as at the crumbling Convent of Tlalmanalco, sculptured ornamentation reflects native art and recalls the fact that armies of skilled Aztec artisans were drafted to construct the thousands of buildings erected during the Colonial Period.
Just beyond Acolman is San Juan Teotihuacan, an unbelievably vast Toltec religious center dominated by the pyramids of the Sun and Moon, between which lies the Pathway of the Dead, lined with lesser pyramids. Close on the south is the so-called Citadel, a great court 400 meters square inclosing the elaborately sculptured Pyramid of Quetzalcoatl and bordered by platforms whereon temples formerly stood. Excavated in 1921 and restored by the Mexican Government, this group of buildings, together with those others nearby, combine to form a stupendous, awe-inspiring series of man-made structures.
Mexico is dotted with prehistoric ruins, heritage from the diversified native peoples who compose the bulk of her population. These ruins differ as markedly as the languages spoken by their builders. Six miles north of the City the restored Pyramid of Tenayuca frowns upon the emptiness of a town that furnished brave warriors for Montezuma’s armies. A similar Aztec pyramid, with its double stairway. looks out across the barranca of Cuernavaca, in the state of Morelos, to the palace Cortez is said to have built in 1530. Two hours away by auto are the terraces, courts, and pyramids of Xochicalco, the House of Flowers, whose builders are not yet certainly identified.
In the state of Vera Cruz one finds the Totonacan ruins of Tajin and Cempoala, among others; in Chiapas stands splendid Palenque with its famed Temple of the Cross, a carved panel from which, now in the Museo Nacional, was completed by the section received in 1862 and returned to the Republic cf Mexico by the Smithsonian Institution in 1908. Of venerable Cholula, the Toltec religious center which Cortez credited with 20,000 houses and 400 temples, nothing remains

<<<Page: 231>>>

Fic. 58—Mitla was conquered by the Aztecs in the fifteenth century, but this “dalace” platform is still faced with its original, maroon-colored plaster.
Fic. 59.—Mitla’s mosaic walls reflect both the artistic skill and the architectural ability of her Zapotecan builders.

<<<Page: 232>>>

except the great pyramid dedicated to Quetzalcoatl. This covers nearly twice as much ground as Egypt’s famous Pyramid of Cheops, and its seven successive periods of construction were revealed only a year ago by 5,000 feet of tunnels.
The explorations at Cholula, under supervision of the Department of Prehispanic Monuments, comprise one of several similar undertakings sponsored by the Federal Government. No other nation in the world is devoting so large a portion of its annual income to the excavation, restoration, and preservation of its prehistoric remains.
At Monte Alban, the Zapotecan ruin whose marvelous and intrusive Mixtec jewels now form the chief attraction at the National
5 a ee ts erage tN TRF
Fic. 60.—From the temple group dedicated to Quetzalcoatl, at the Toltec city of San Juan Teotihuacan, one looks up to the distant Pyramid of the Sun.
Museum in Mexico, one passes spellbound through great templed courts surmounting terraced hills that look down upon the amiable city of Oaxaca. Two hours by automobile, dodging market-bound Indians with huge packs of farm produce, pottery, and home-made textiles ; past far-reaching acres of maize and fields wherein Mixtec and Zapotec farmers follow ox-drawn wooden plows, brings one finally to incomparable Mitla. Here are four “ palaces,” whose walls, at least in part, are faced with small blocks of sandstone fitted into most intricate and exquisite mosaics. Beneath these buildings are the
cruciform tombs wherein Zapotecan kings were buried ; Indians from neighboring villages still come at night to burn candles and make floral offerings in memory of the departed ones. Wherever one goes in Mexico, the past joins hands with the present.

<<<Page: 233>>>

3y HERBERT W. KRIEGER
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museuin
On his own initiative, the writer spent many delightful week ends during 1935 in out-of-the-way places along the lower Potomac River in Virginia and Maryland in quest of remnant groups of tidewater Algonkian Indians and of relics of their bygone civilization. Every school child has read about the great Powhatan and his lovable daughter Pocahontas, but few students realize that surviving descendants of the once powerful Indian confederacy still dwell in the gum swamps and pine barrens of tidewater Virginia and Maryland. There is significance in the geographical position of their home, which was the most southerly of the tribes of the great Algonkian linguistic stock. The influence of Powhatan extended roughly from the James to the Potomac Rivers in eastern Virginia, increasing in extent westward to the vicinity of Richmond, where an immigrant group of the eastern Sioux blocked further progress.
The writer wished to see where these Indians had lived and to visualize how they lived. Literary aids were to hand. The graphic and pictorially embellished narrative of the indomitable Captain John Smith is immediately associated with such an undertaking. Without going into the merits of Smith’s stories of personal adventure, his vivid portrayal of tidewater Indian daily life in its native setting is interesting and unquestioned.
Thomas Heriot, the historian of the ill-fated Sir Walter Raleigh Roanoke colony of 1585-86, in his book imprinted in London in 1588 also gives us meaty information in the form of a “ briefe and true report on the new found land of Virginia.” However, much erroneous data has had to be sifted by recent scholars. Outstanding is the confusion regarding the introduction into England of two important economic plants, tobacco and the potato. As is now well known, the potato was, instead, carried to Europe from South America by the Spaniards and back to America by Irish immigrants in 1719. Similarly, the use of snuff and smoking tobacco had reached England through Spanish sources long before the days of Sir Walter Raleigh. The jeweled snuff box was characteristic of the ruling and cavalier class of England long before the first English settlement had been

<<<Page: 234>>>

WE eo ee
Fic. 61.—Popes Creek, Maryland. The broad Potomac River on the left—the greatest Indian shell mound of the mid-Atlantic States in the high background
beyond the pier and the Pennsylvania Railroad station.
gg ; r, : te r et Ls r SOF Z 2 one Sued S Se ni — Fic. 62.—Oyster shells—the remains of countless repasts of tidewater Algonkian Indians at their abandoned village on Popes Creek, Maryland. Not only did they subsist for weeks on a diet consisting solely of the succulent oyster—but they dried the meat in the open air for purposes of barter with Indians of the
interior.

<<<Page: 235>>>

(‘I ‘ou 6 ‘JOA “s ‘U “YsrsojodoryUY UPdIIOUTY ‘,, Sp1OIDy Ajiey WOly—PIUISIIA,, “Af ‘ plaeg 99) *,, SJSPIF QULUBIOS 9119} JB AO SSuTJUNY [[e1oUIsS Il9y} 0} 206 AJY} UdYM SoATasSWM9y} Suljuted pue 3117}e doy} JO JouUeUT oY T,,, :UOTJdIIDsap Sty} SOATS OFF ‘URIPUT PIULSITA & JO SUIMPIP PotO[OO SITY} apeul UOTIpodx9 dyouROY Ss YstoeyY JoyeA\ IIS Jo 1aquiou we ‘(ouy A) ey AA UYOL SQgSt zed 9Yy} UT— TO ‘DIY
‘sUjieoy URIPUyT ATOLUIOF Jo sayse pue pooM poaateyo oy} Aq pure ‘s}UsUseAy [MOG At9qyjod payerosap ‘syurod uodeam ‘sjuotaydu au0js Ppeppaquia Aq podZitoJOeVARYD SI JT “AOAIQYT DVUIOJOg 9} JO Sto}EM 9Yy} Aq AR[NOIpusdsoed oY} 0} ARMP Pareays YO JoOoJ-pospuny e sdeo punouwr [Jays 19}sA0 siyy, ‘puryAieyy ‘Yootg sodog je punout [joys ueluos;y }B915 IY} JO UOTDIS pasodxo9 jOOJ-O1 W—'L9 “DIY

<<<Page: 236>>>

made in America. Port Tobacco, on a tidal estuary of the Potomac on the Maryland shore about 50 miles south of Washington, was at one time in colonial days the chief tobacco shipping port in America. It did not, however, derive its name from that fact but from a corruption of the Indian village name, Potapaco, first mentioned in John Smith's writings. Strachey’s “ History of Travaile into Virginia,’ written about 1612 and published by the Hakluyt Society in 1849, 1s the best source of information on the language of Virginia Indians.
There are numerous traces of Indian occupancy such as village and quarry sites scattered throughout the District of Columbia and the lower valley of the Potomac. Within the District, legend would have it that several sites have been identified. The principal village site 1dentified as Nacochtank extended along the eastern bank of Anacostia River from below its mouth to Bladensburg. Capitol Hill may or may not have been utilized as a council hill in Indian days. A fort stood on the river near the Navy Yard. Other village sites were supposedly located on the Virginia shore opposite the foot of Analostan, now Roosevelt Island, at Kengla Place between Pierce Mill and Connecticut Avenue, on Canal Road between Reno Reservoir and the distributing reservoir, a small fishing village near Little Falls on the Virginia side of the Potomac, also at Four Mile Run.
The first Englishmen to visit the region of the capital were Captain John Smith and his companions. Smith ascended the Potomac River probably as far as the vicinity of Little Falls. He named the river after the Indian term Patawomecke. On the Virginia side of the Potomac near the end of the Pennsylvania Railroad bridge was a small village called Nameroughquena. Assomack was located where Alexandria now stands. Namasingakaut was below Alexandria. A village located and named Toaga or ‘Tauxanent by Smith is on the present site of Mount Vernon; Smith’s Moaones village is directly opposite on the Maryland side, just below the mouth of the Piscataway. The large village site at Popes Creek on the Maryland side of the Potomac, characterized by the largest shell midden in the mid-Atlantic coastal area, remains, unfortunately, as yet unidentified.
Mixed groups of tidewater Algonkians still live in the general vicinity of their ancestral homes. Altogether some 2,500 individuals, mostly mixed bloods, but predominantly of Indian blood survive. Their social traditions are Indian, and intermarriage with Negroes and Whites is discouraged. Indian handicrafts persist to an amazing extent. Such ancient crafts as feather weaving, corn-husk plaiting, splint basketry, planting sticks, and hand pottery manufacture still persist. Racial solidarity is pronounced.

<<<Page: 237>>>

By M. W. STIRLING Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology
During the months of January and February, 1935, the writer, accompanied by his wife, examined a number of archeological sites in the area of the ancient Maya and visited some of the Maya-Quiché villages in the highlands of Guatemala.
The conquest of Guatemala was entrusted by Cortez to Don Pedro de Alvarado. In two letters addressed to his superior, Alvarado recounts his adventures—how he passed through and subdued the kingdom of the Quiches, whose capital was at Utatlan; his march through Quetzaltenango ; and the events which transpired at the Lake of Atitlan. In 1524 Alvarado founded the first Spanish city in Guatemala, but it was short-lived, the Spaniards being driven out by the Cakchiquels. The conquistadores moved on, and at the base of the volcano Agua was established the city of Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala. This was destroyed by a deluge of water let loose from the side of the volcano. Undaunted, they established in the middle of the fifteenth century the third capital about 5 miles distant from this site, still shadowed by the towering volcanoes Agua and Fuego. This is now known as Guatemala Antigua.
At the time the Pilgrims were landing in New England, there were imposing palaces in Antigua, 59 churches, to convents, and half a dozen monasteries. However, the evil genius that had pursued the two earlier Santiago de Los Caballeros de Guatemala was still present. In 1773 a series of exceptionally hard earthquake shocks practically destroyed the city, and the King of Spain authorized its removal to the Valle de las Vacas. This is the present Guatemala City. Thus was abandoned the capital that for 230 years had been the greatest city from Mexico to Lima.
Ientering Guatemala at the port of San José, we made a trip across the Pacific coastal plain to the town of Escuintla. Six interesting mound groups were located between the two cities. These would produce interesting results 1f excavated, since the Pacific coast of Guatemala is almost unknown archeologically.
Upon reaching the highlands of Guatemala, we visited the Indian villages of Santiago de Atitlan and San Pedro, located on Lake

<<<Page: 238>>>

Fic. 65.—On the trail between Esquipulas and Copan. The pine-clad mountains remind one of the Sierra Nevadas in California.
~ af y gat brah : Me : ee RR odes ae 2.
Fic. 66.—Face of the great mound at Copan showing old pavement levels. This exposure produced by the Copan River has been called the largest archeological cross-section in the world.”
; “ ye ; ee : st ae ° 2% LF ait : ee fae
Fic. 67.—Stone pillars at Chichen Itza. These unusual carvings formerly supported a heavy wooden lintel to form the entrance of a building.

<<<Page: 239>>>

Ae fe ft. & s of oe
Fic, 68.—View taken at 12,000 feet altitude in the Guatemala highlands, overlooking Lake Atitlan and showing four volcanoes.
Fic. 69.—View of San Pedro Volcano from Lake Atitlan. Volcanoes have played an important role in Guatemala, affecting both the topography of the country and its human occupation.
i Fig. 70.—Native village of Atitlan showing sweathouse in right foreground. This village has been occupied continuously since a time previous to the Conquest.

<<<Page: 240>>>

Atitlan. The shores of this beautiful lake, ringed with volcanoes, contain 12 Indian villages, representing three different tribes, the Tzutuhil, the Quiche, and the Cakchiquels. Numerous mound groups indicate the former existence of the high native culture which so 1mpressed the men of Cortez who first visited this region under the leadership of Alvarado. Some of the present villages have been occupied continuously since that time. The village of Atitlan is noted for the beautiful costumes of its women. The houses are built of volcanic rock, and the general appearance of both the village and its inhabitants is undoubtedly almost the same as in Alvarado’s day.
After leaving Lake Atitlan, we visited the interesting Indian town of Chichicastenango. Here a form of the ancient Mayan calendar is still used. In the hills nearby we witnessed the giving of offerings and prayer to prehistoric stone images of Maya deities. The houses of the town itself are constructed of adobe and stone, the Indians having at an early date adopted the Spanish style of architecture. On the floors of the old churches, now practically abandoned by the clergy, native altars are constructed and the old rites still practiced. Standing in the candlelight of the old cathedral, the air hazy with the smoke of burning copal, and listening to the chants of the medicine men praying for little groups about the floor, one feels close indeed to the old religious life of the Maya.
After returning to Guatemala City, we journeyed by rail to the ruins of the old empire Maya city of Quirigua. Here in the course of reerecting the fallen stelae of the great court, the Carnegie Institution had just discovered two large and beautiful stone zoomorphs, or altars.
On returning to Guatemala City, we made plans for undertaking the more strenuous trip to the ruins of the great Maya city of Copan in northern Honduras. At this time, the press was filled with accounts of terrific earthquakes at Copan, which were reputed not only to have completely destroyed the isolated modern town but to have leveled the ancient monuments as well. For this reason it was with more than ordinary interest that we set out by rail to Zacapa, a town lying in the desert belt which stretches between the Guatemala highlands and the jungle-clad Atlantic coast. From Zacapa a hair-raising auto trip was made over a mule trail crossing a 12,000-foot mountain range, to Esquipulas, where in a broad, bare valley between encircling mountains stands the white structure which houses the shrine of the Black Christ, one of the most famous shrines of Latin America. Formerly a place of worship of a native deity, it became in early colonial times a Christian shrine and is still the object of pilgrimage for thousands of Indians who come from distant tribes and countries in order that

<<<Page: 241>>>

“BOLIOUIY UL SUIAI’I 9U0}S JO sajdurexsd Jsoauy 94} JO JUIOS Uaas aq 0} oe polsod osIdwiy pl~C PAR 9q} JO d}IS ayqissaooe Ayiseo sIy} UT “enstamnd ye JYstoy ur jooy SE elayg—EZL “DIY
sees Oe woe
[poe = : “! ee dl reese ee eee ea, ®t
Oulqs = [ 12
"E[BUIOJeNT) O} JISIA & JO Soinzeay J19}UL JSOUL 94} JO 9UO 9}NIsSUOD suURIpP
ABI 94} JO SOWINysOD —' IZ ‘dT
ite)

<<<Page: 242>>>

miraculous cures may be effected for themselves or their relatives. At Esquipulas mules were obtained, and the long trip over rough trails through pine-clad mountains and grassy hills was begun. Upon crossing the border between Guatemala and Honduras, we reached the mountain valley of the Copan River.
Our first view of the town of Copan revealed a peaceful cluster of white houses with red tiled roofs nestling among the trees at the foot of the mountains. Entering the town itself, a scene of destruction met our eyes. Practically every building had been badly damaged by the earthquakes, and the church, the most imposing structure of the community, had been almost completely destroyed. The earthquakes were still continuing at intervals and the frightened populace had erected tents and temporary structures in the town plaza or in open areas near the outskirts, where business was being conducted and where the townspeople were living.
The ruins of the ancient city are among the most impressive in the New World. The elaborately carved stelae guarding the great courts and mounds impressed vividly on the mind a picture of the former greatness of the Maya. It is not difficult to imagine the reactions of the old conquistador, Palacio, who in 1576 left us the first description of this impressive site.
We ascended the hieroglyphic stairway under the guidance of Gustav Stromsvik, of the Carnegie Institution, in order to view the last standing sculptured wall of the structure which had been erected as part of the ancient temple on top of the great mound. When part of the way up, we were forced to support ourselves by grasping the roots of trees growing out of the stairway as a heavy earthquake shook the place, accompanied by a loud rumbling noise. On reaching the top of the mound we discovered that the shock had collapsed the wall. After it had stood there for more than a thousand years, we were just two minutes too late.
After two interesting days spent in examining the ruins, we returned to Esquipulas and thence to Guatemala City, whence we journeyed by plane, via Puerto Barrios and Belize, to Merida in Yucatan. From Merida we had the pleasure of visiting the ruins of Uxmal under the guidance of Dr. A. V. Kidder.
Returning to Merida, we drove over the new auto road to Chichen Itza. Here, as guests of the Carnegie Institution, we spent a week examining the ruins under the expert guidance of Dr. Morley. Leaving Merida by plane at seven o'clock in the morning, we arrived in Washington at three o’clock the next morning.

<<<Page: 243>>>

By PRANK HD He ROBERTS, JiR. Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
The Lindenmeier Site in northern Colorado, where the presence of a campsite and workshop attributable to Folsom Man was established a year ago last autumn, was the scene of additional excavations during the summer of 1935. From the first of June until early September the writer, assisted by a group of from 7 to 12 students, conducted a series of investigations in the deposits where stone implements and other traces of human occupation occur. The site is on an old valley bottom, which, owing to the eroding away of the ridges that once bordered it along one side, now constitutes a terrace above an intermittent tributary to a series of streams which ultimately join the South Platte River. The work in 1934 was confined to a deep deposit of midden material exposed in the side of a ravine that cuts across the terrace in the once occupied area. The plan of procedure in 1935 called for the digging of two large trenches through the section lying between the edge of the terrace and the ravine (fig. 74). The trenches were started several hundred feet apart but were directed so that they would converge at the pit where most of the previous finds had been made (fig. 75). This method of digging was adopted for the purpose of exposing a complete cross-section of the fill overlying the old valley bottom and of determining, if possible, where the artifacts found in the deep deposit had originated.
Only one trench was carried through to completion. The other was stopped when it became apparent that the evidence from it would merely duplicate that from the first one. The completed trench was 280 feet long and 10 feet wide, and sloped from a depth of 3 feet at the edge of the terrace to 17 feet in the bank of the ravine (fig. 76). The bottom followed the old soil level, which was the surface of the ground at the time when the site was inhabited by the makers of the tools found there (fig. 77). The trenches were dug in 10-foot sections, and all of the material from each was so designated. In addition the position of specimens with respect to location in the section
* Roberts, F. H. H., Jr., A Folsom Complex, preliminary report on investigations at the Lindenmeier Site in Northern Colorado. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 94, no. 4, 1935.

<<<Page: 244>>>

howe ae : " :
: A ee aes eae : : ae : er
Fic. 74.—General view of site showing ravine and trenches across terrace.
Fic. 75.—Removing overburden at end of one trench. Platform on which dirt is piled is level of the deep deposit.

<<<Page: 245>>>

ne? Hee ete f ey ee es object at the left is a chopper, that at the right a portion of a Folsom point.
“ oe oo te

<<<Page: 246>>>

was carefully noted. Detailed drawings were made of the faces in each section, and these give a minute record of events involved in the growth of the valley fill.
Much additional information concerning the cultural complex of the early hunting people who fashioned the characteristically fluted Folsom points (fig. 78) was obtained from the trenches. The digging also yielded some 750 stone implements and a few ornaments, one of carved bone, as well as bones from animals whose flesh had contributed to the food supply of the one-time dwellers at the site. No human skeletal material was found, and although bits of charcoal and ashes were encountered, no indications of a shelter or habitation were observed. The presence of hammerstones and numerous flakes and chips at several different places indicated that one or several individuals had been seated there while shaping tools out of rough stone nodules. Pieces of a number of projectile points which had been broken in the making were recovered from one such spot. By fitting the fragments together and restoring the flake to its original form it is possible to gain additional evidence on the technique used in the manufacture of the points.
One significant find bears directly upon the problem of the association between the implements and the bones occurring at the site, a feature which has been questioned. A considerable portion of the skeleton of one bison was uncovered with the bones still articulated. When the vertebrae were being removed, the tip end of a projectile point was discovered i situ in the foramen, the channel for the spinal cord, of one vertebra. As this bone had been in position in the center of a group of articulated vertebrae there was no possibility of the point being a later intrusion and postdating the skeleton (fig. 79). This association establishes beyond the shadow of a doubt the contemporaneity of the implements and the bones. The bison is one of the extinct species, Bison taylori. The point, hafted on either an arrow or spear shaft, was obviously driven into the animal and then broken off. The wound may not have been directly responsible for the creature’s death, but it would have crippled it to such an extent that a killing blow could easily be administered.
Nine species of invertebrates were found in association with the animal bones and implements. Seven live in the region today, but two of the species are considerably north of their present range and may possibly indicate a warmer climate at the time of the deposition of the fossils. The present northern limits of one is Grand Canyon, Ariz., and southern and central New Mexico. The other occurs only

<<<Page: 247>>>

Fic.
78.—Typical Folsom points.

<<<Page: 248>>>

as far north as Mora County, New Mexico. The invertebrates were studied by Dr. Horace G. Richards, research associate, New Jersey State Museum, and his identifications and conclusions were verified by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia.
Dr. Kirk Bryan, Division of Geology, Harvard University, assisted by F. T. McCann and John T. Hack, spent the month of July studying the geology of the district in an effort to determine the age of the deposits. Numerous geologists and paleontologists visited the site
Fic. 79.—Tip end of projectile point in place in vertebral foramen.
during the time that Dr. Bryan was in camp, and lengthy discussions were held concerning the nature of the formation and what it indicated. No definite conclusions have been reached as yet, consequently it is not possible to date the period of occupation.
E. G. Cassedy, illustrator of the Bureau of American Ethnology, joined the party in August and made a survey of the site. The map which he prepared, on a scale of 100 feet to the inch with 5-foot contour lines, will serve as a valuable graphic reference for discussions on the changes that have taken place in the terrain since the hunters of the extinct bison camped in that locality.

<<<Page: 249>>>

By TRUMAN MICHELSON
Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
For the purpose of obtaining data to make a linguistic map of the territories adjacent to James and Hudson’s Bays, Canada, the writer undertook an expedition to that region with the aid of a subvention from the American Council of Learned Societies. Early in July he went to Moosonee, then spent a few weeks at Moose Factory, a little over a week at the Great Whale River, over two weeks at the Fort George River, and a day at Rupert’s House. He came back to Moosonee, then to Moose Factory, and returned to Washington about the middle of September. Besides getting data from the Indians and Eskimos of those places, by good fortune he was able to get in contact with one Indian from the East Main River, one Cree from Wenusk on the west side of Hudson’s Bay, one Cree from the Albany River, who had also been at Attawapiskat, and one Ojibwa from the Albany River. Data from some of the remoter localities were obtained by indirect methods.
Upon combining this new information with what was already known, including some unpublished data on the Nichigun dialect furnished by the Rev. Dr. John M. Cooper, the essential results that appear are as follows: The dividing line between Cree and MontagnaisNascapi is slightly east of Hannah Bay. As the writer previously surmised (28th Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol., p. 247; American Anthropologist, vol. 26, p. 295), Rupert’s House Cree and East Main Cree are really not Cree at all, but Montagnais-Nascapi dialects. Waswanipi is Montagnais-Nascapi1, as proved by Dr. Cooper, contrary to the belief of Dr. Davidson who maintained that it was Cree. Beginning with Rupert’s House, taking in Mistassini, Waswanipi, and Nichigun, going up the entire length of the east coast of James and Hudson’s Bays to a little beyond the Great Whale River, there are various Montagnais-Nascapi dialects in all of which original / is replaced by y,; the Montagnais-Nascapi dialects of the Great Whale River and Fort George River very obviously from a distinct unit within these. The Great Whale River dialect touches the one at Fort Chimo, in which original / is replaced by n, thus agreeing with the

<<<Page: 250>>>

‘]pyIany) }40.J ayy UO Jasuassed eB ose ‘lioy “IW Aq joys Jeoq iejod y—iIg ‘dy
“AIOJIL YY ISOOJW ye Jajyaidsajul Ss UOSsTeypIyY “Iq :UeTPyY AT[IAA—08 “SOI

<<<Page: 251>>>

Sy NI
Fic. 82—Eskimo en route for the Great Whale River.
Fic. 83.—An earth-lodge at Fort George River.

<<<Page: 252>>>

dialect at Davis Inlet, and the Northwest River. Mistassini touches the dialect of Lake St. John, one in which original / is maintained. Moose Cree is a Cree dialect in which original / is maintained. Kesagami Cree is a dialect in which original / is replaced by r; the dialect is virtually extinct, the band now speaking Moose Cree, though it is still possible to get some isolated Kesagami words. In the Cree dialects at Attawapiskat, Severn, Wenusk, and York Factory, original / is replaced by 1; older documentary evidence seems to indicate that Albany Cree belonged to this group, but it is not possible to give a positive answer without spending some time among them, for informants are not unbiased and answer according to whether they are Anglicans (/ dialect) or Romanists (7 dialect). The western boundaries of the m dialects are not known with precision. At Isle a la Crosse original / is replaced by 7; without further data it is not possible to know whether this dialect belongs with Tete de Boule (an r dialect also) genealogically or whether the change of / to r in both is merely a parallel phenomenon. The Cree at the English River replaces 1 by th. The Prairie Cree replaces / by y; the exact boundaries of the dialect are unknown. The Ojibwa dialect at the Albany River presents a number of differences from the Ojibwa dialects of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and other localities. The Eskimo dialect at the Great Whale River differs from that spoken at the Belcher Islands and from that spoken at Fort Chimo; the Eskimo dialect in the James Bay region is said to be the same as that spoken by the inhabitants of the Belcher Islands.
Basically, the various Cree and Montagnais-Nascapi dialects are very much alike; true transitions between the two groups, if they exist, are as yet unknown. Though it is true that, broadly speaking, the Cree group is the more archaic, nevertheless, in a number of points the Montagnais-Nascapi is the more archaic. Wherefore, the second group cannot be derived from the first; they both come from a common ancestor. A few examples showing how phonetic shifts disguise Montagnais-Nascapi words are (in the Fort George River dialect of Montagnais-Nascapi) tipaimau, “He controls him,’ Moose Cree tipéliméw, Plains Cree tipéyiméw; nitcistcaimau, “I know him,” Moose Cree nikiskélimau; and, perhaps a more striking example, tcimioimitn, ‘‘ I like you (singular), Moose Cree kimilwelimitin.
The folklore of the Moose Cree is decidedly reminiscent of Central Algonquian. The name of the culture-hero (and trickster) Wisahketcahk (and variant Wisahkwetcahk at Moose Factory ; there are cognates in Plains Cree, Sauk, Fox, Kickapoo, Peoria; the Algonkin and Ojibwa bands which have the name clearly borrowed it; Prairie Po

<<<Page: 253>>>

Fie. 84.—Indian women at Moose Factory.
Fic. 85.—Eskimo at the Great Whale River.

<<<Page: 254>>>

So SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
tawatomi has a hypocoristic form which also is more common in Sauk, Fox, and Kickapoo) disappears east of the Moose Cree. However, several of his exploits occur under different designations among the Montagnais-Nascapi: at the Fort George River Macu gets the fowls to dance with their eyes shut; at Fort Chimo (as may be seen from Turner’s old collection in the 11th Ann. Rep. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.) the wolverene is the trickster. It is surprising how many elements appear that are common in the Central Algonquian tribes. In this connection it should be stated that although it has been denied that the earth-diver episode occurs in the Labrador Peninsula, as a matter of fact it occurs at least among the Fort George River Indians; similarly, though the thunder-bird concept has been said to be nonexistent in the same, it occurs at least among the Rupert’s House band. Yarns about the hero Teahkapec (and variants) are common on both sides of James and Hudson’s Bays, and echoes occur over a wide area; it 1s interesting to note that in the Jesuit Relations of 300 years ago essential portions of these yarns occur.
Over this vast territory the social organization is very simple, clans and gentes being absent. Among the Indians at the Great Whale River cross-cousin marriages are permissive, not mandatory; the marriage of parallel cousins is forbidden. At Cape Jones the Indians are ethnologically largely Eskimoized. The Eskimo dialect spoken at the Great Whale River differs from that spoken on the Belcher Islands and at Fort Chimo ; its systematic position is unknown. Some syllabic texts in the Great Whale River dialect on the ancient Eskimo were obtained ; the human hero story, so characteristic of the American Arctic region, is the essential theme.
The writer obtained a few bear skulls from Hannah Bay for the United States National Museum, and he was able to extend the known range of at least one mammal, namely, the woodchuck. It occurs as far north on the east side of Hudson’s Bay as a little beyond the Great Whale River (winask", Fort George and Rupert’s House; win’, Great Whale River; winask at Moose Factory, where in English the natives call it the “
Thanks are due to all the officials of the Hudson’s Bay Company, who made the trip pleasant as well as profitable.
ground-squirrel ’’).
There is a belief among the Indians that whenever anyone points at Stag Rock (between Rupert's House and Moosonee) a terrible storm will occur. When returning on the boat, as the day was fair, the writer could not resist testing this belief, and the storm came.

<<<Page: 255>>>

_ be
7 1 w) ohn Si i Ta ver peril _ 7 i Se sie 7 i
ate an oe ad ve
Din yy a Lage oar, Ar -
7 7 Gee g~ tf % te u ve
7 4 & tp
Dey aed UP Oia’. | ]
> = ey fe ‘* Ls ‘Sit Gaks » ri bt wo 2

<<<Page: 256>>>



<<<Page: 257>>>



<<<Page: 258>>>

BAY a Pini

<<<Page: 259>>>



<<<Page: 260>>>

The Lord Baltimore Press

<<<Page: 261>>>

The Smithsonian Institution was established for “ the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” Scientific explorations and laboratory researches provide for the increase of knowledge; its diffusion is accomplished largely by the Institution’s several series of publications. The present pamphlet is intended as a_ preliminary announcement of the purposes and results of the field expeditions sent out or cooperated in by the Smithsonian Institution during the calendar year 1936. The scientific results of these expeditions will later be published in full in the more technical series issued by the Institution.
The brief articles herein were written by the men who conducted the expeditions, and the photographs were largely taken by them.
W. P. TruE, Editor.

<<<Page: 262>>>

oa " J 2 : a e 5 : oh = on : : : ; ii 7 ‘ :P . f 7 ; ' 1 tk ‘ ed ny a ia ey , ton » , = : n Tr ie Pe. DO amie te ea *, » ! hi i ae in ay 2 <P e ie ; oak ae ie 7 vw os i a ee SL APO ws iets «3 oe ; = 71 ’ S vas Pa a Ya bes : f ) FURS Fem pw 7 i a + UP ee a ~ \ : 2 * 7 7 = at / @ Deveae = = i ee 2 ar , “ as 4 1 Pa an __ ow ee 1) o 4 ee bins Pe mot 7 ) > a pL i) re ai 7 shee > 6m) el pi: i . ae 7% . i os «sf “~~~ — 4 7 eee ity 7 aa 7 es > ie : ml . ae — a re Iv vee . re eye yenr 2 ‘ . TR 8s
a ae
: 2 “~ 3 ~ “a Ey i aor oo
ae oe sig a : es 7. yee e a) “1 a : jeu els 7 eee
") had ie sie roar eo al ve: . ss A od ae
yon : i a ‘i si iia
ns ; eo i
oy a = i AP Hotes

<<<Page: 263>>>

PAGE Abbot, CG.) exploring solar power possibilities. 52 5.....0s00-.e6ss+ a5 0 I BantletthCcaptey kobert Ave Greenland jexpedition of 16304. ...0..0...<... 0. 4l Basslerwixenou Geolocicalastudiesmin Iuropess.sces ss. cemdeee eens. Gi Glan ustitielt. wi hesbutteniiessOn “Vil eitialstem sia 4 salon ere oo nn ane 47 Collins, Henry B., Jr. Archeological excavations at Bering Strait......... 63 Cooper, G. Arthur. Collecting Devonian fossils in the midwest........... 15 Deignan, H. G. A journey through Nan and Chiengrai Provinces, Siam.. 35 Gazin, C. Lewis. Hunting for fossil mammals in the Navajo country...... 19 Henderson, E. P. Mineralogical explorations in southeastern Alaska..... Il
Hewitt, J. N. B. Field studies of the Iroquois in New York State and in Onftaniowm Catia damn sts ace hacia coe ec ee eee Tn ees te Re Hrdlicka, Ales. Archeological explorations on Kodiak Island and the Aleutiycord eel tn Cl sempeeenatece sg Peete ete PS Soe cke ash eo x's: erent eRe Pek ee Ns eee Klip whee. Botanizine qo) thes Mlonidasleys: mm... seers ooo Krieger, Herbert W. The Bahama Islands and their prehistoric population. Mitman, C. W. Smithsonian Institution Exhibit at the Texas Centennial ExPOSITION Mo alilaswauNexaStmers eee eee ne conan tanh ices As, orsign ne taens Perrygo, Watson M. Collecting birds and mammals.in West Virginia.... Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr. New developments in the problem of the Folsom COTM Cem taye ee case Ae Ann beta ao Sar accyatc ae tencncs a/c oeimepeact Spe aN teas Steward, Julian H. Ethnological reconnaissance among the desert Shoshoni. Strong, William Duncan. Archeological explorations in northwestern HonGUBRTENS 122 ey comme Reco Ren teig GAC, oh Bese ore EE EOE A a eee
Wetmore, Alexander. Birds of the Guatemalan Highlands................

<<<Page: 264>>>

’ zi iH ih : yt in By ae ie 1 A a \ a eet s ey?
f : ‘ on
ai “ ne a Gi 4 ih a gr = il eoei Te ae . — Re one iy Saye © a Date od au mt .
ra "A A ok % oe et ; ‘70 6 : i ae ao " ag a) 4 pee i ae 7 ; fan 7 uty 4 i) a AN rea a" wie if Sie Tt oh. nt | "i 7% i a: ‘| : iv
7 : ; oe jj 5 7 ' the alt i a vee , rT
ie : , aU a a oe ; i é : * es a» a {oa fi a bay i yy) . an — an = 6 yt : 7 = ual arith Eas A "ie ne at ee * Canty = m 7 FA, nd i : 7 aie ‘ an 7 : : Thee , 7 | 1 ; . Thin ei me vs f a
} i ‘ean F : Onn iN a on = * cee. T 1
Mer ie Tas 7 ne Pt i ie " ; *aD ] a
if hy Di. P 4 ale _ “iy , oo < 7 7 f aly yi ae Hi Dy : ’vad oa "te 7 fy i ny ae a i ~~ 4 eo wa nye
as A i Y 2 ol i i Dy, as Me ie Ta ) Hh mt ati ee ‘tp, i a 7 i, a
if mt
ee ye a re y: ie ti ny Ne a a °9.
7 A = Tis a ; oe <i : q

<<<Page: 265>>>

PMP ORING SOLAR POWER POSSIBIELRIES by GG. ABBOT
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Usually these articles relate to researches at places remote from Washington. As a large part of the preliminary work on the Abbot solar heat collector has been done at Mount Wilson, Calif., and as there is much interest at present in the question whether solar radiation can be used in competition with coal, oil, and hydroelectricity for power purposes, this article on the latest developments of my solar engine is included.
The State of New Mexico alone receives nearly 100 times as much solar heat as the combined consumption of coal, oil, and hydroelectric energy in the United States, if expressed in heat units. Evidently New Mexico would be a rich State if she might utilize this free gift from the sun without costly devices for applying it. There lies the crux. Is it possible to utilize solar radiation for power without prohibitive expense for the machinery ?
It has been suggested that we employ devices which directly convert solar radiation into electricity. This may be a possible approach, but Tam not familiar with economical methods of this kind as yet developed. In this article I shall restrict myself to heat engines alone.
In September 1936 the author exhibited at the Smithsonian Institution a one-half horsepower development of a solar engine. It comprised three mirrors of aluminum products, very simple and cheap in construction, each with an area of about 12 square feet, or 36 square feet in total exposure. These three mirrors were of parabolic cylindrical concave form, each 2 feet wide and 6 feet long, mounted parallel within a wooden frame. This frame was itself mounted on trunnions which defined an axis parallel to the axis of the earth, and the axes of the mirrors lay at right angles thereto. With this arrangement no clockwork was needed. It sufficed to rotate the frame through a small angle about once each half hour, thereby keeping the mirror axes approximately at right angles to the rays of the sun.
Each mirror focused the sun rays upon a glass focus tube, about 14 inch in exterior diameter, comprising three concentric tubes of Pyrex glass. The inner tube, about 45 inch in diameter, contained a black liquid, “ aroclor ”’, which almost totally absorbed sun rays and could withstand a temperature of 350° C., or 640° F. without boiling

<<<Page: 266>>>

or decomposition. The inner tube was hermetically sealed within the outer, preserving a very high vacuum between them. The third tube, lying between them, was merely a further barrier to hinder the escape of heat.
All three focus tubes were connected by a pair of header tubes of copper to a boiler of the fire-tube type, lying behind and above the mirrors. In order to accelerate the circulation of the ‘‘ aroclor” absorbing liquid from the focus tubes to the boiler, a small motor was used to operate a little piston pump within the liquid circuit. Steam
Fic. 1—Abbot’s solar cooker employed on Mount Wilson during summer expeditions since 1920.
was raised to pressures exceeding roo lbs. per square inch, and used to drive a small steam engine for exhibition purposes. On one occasion, with the cooperation of the National Broadcasting Company, a short conversation was broadcast by solar power.
Although this installation had much promise and some interesting performance, and although as regards the collection of solar radiation and the absorption of it to produce heat, and even the preservation of the heat for useful purposes, the devices were economical and highly efficient, defects in the machine as a whole became immediately apparent. To appreciate them, let us recall:

<<<Page: 267>>>

-uo-)
IaMOg
PJoosrpul s joqqy

<<<Page: 268>>>

fs nN
1. That in the device which was exhibited at Washington the mirrors and heater elements rotated together from east toward west each day, but the boiler was nonrotating. Hence movable joints tightly containing the very hot black liquid had to be provided. These were costly and yet in practice leaked.
2. Several hours were required to get up full steam pressure, owing to the large capacity for heat of the black liquid, the metal parts of the tubes and boiler, and the water in the boiler. This objection would be very serious on a half-cloudy day. Though half the sun’s energy were available, full steam pressure could never be raised on such a day.
3. As the black liquid must flow entirely through each focus tube, and the inner glass wall became very hot while the outer one remained fairly cool, a difficult glass gooseneck device had to be blown into each focus tube to allow for differential heat expansion.
We shall now see how these three objections may be met.
1. The mirror is turned 90° from its east-west position and mounted on roller bearings with its axis parallel to the earth’s axis. A large worm-gear wheel is fixed to the mirror at its lower end, and is turned by a 60-cycle single-phase motor through a worm-screw at exactly one rotation in 24 hours. The focus tube on which all the sun rays reflected from the mirror fall is exactly in the axis of the rotation of the mirror. So the focus tube where the heat is produced is perfectly stationary, and the mirror rotates around it to follow the sun accurately.
2. Within the focus tube itself is a miniature flash-boiler. There is a_ steel tube of the latest high-grade steel, thin-walled, but strong enough to resist a pressure of steam up to 200 lbs. per square inch. This slips into the glass vacuum jacketed focus tube. The steel tube is painted with lamp black, so as to absorb 95 percent of sun rays. Within the steel tube is a system of small water tubes, joined along their entire length by copper wings, well soldered with high-meltingpoint solder to the inside of the steel tube.
A very special automatically regulated water supply furnishes water into the inner water tube system at just the proper rate to burst into steam at the desired pressure, say 175 lbs. to the square inch. As the copper wings are such fine conductors of heat, the heat produced by absorption of solar rays in the lamp black on the outer surface of the steel tube penetrates with utmost facility to vaporize the water. No extra black liquid, no heavy metal parts, and no large volume of water are there. Hence steam is raised almost instantaneously.

<<<Page: 269>>>

Fic. 3—Abbot’s solar flash boiler demonstrated before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, December 1930.

<<<Page: 270>>>

3. There is no longer a flow of liquid through the focus tube. The water enters at the lower end and the steam passes out at the lower end. So the inner glass tube is sealed to the outer only at one end, and is free to expand at the other, and the vacuum jacketed focus tube is like an elongated thermos bottle of small diameter.
Such a device is immediately adaptable for small power jobs. Ii the demand was very light, and 60-cycle current unavailable, the mirror might be mounted horizontally east-west with only the adjustment necessary to follow the sun south from summer to winter. This would lose efficiency in early morning and late afternoon hours but would avoid all the cost and inconvenience of the daily rotation of the mirror. Cheap mechanical clockwork could be used instead of the 60-cycle motor movement.
If we consider large installations, the device may conveniently be made large enough to give units of 2 horsepower each. Such units may be combined in north-south rows, at intervals of about 20 feet separation, and the rows may be repeated at intervals of about 40 feet without much shading each other. Thus on a square mile there could be located almost 35,000 units, to yield a total of about 70,000 horsepower on cloudless days through an average of 10 hours a day all through the year. In some of our States, especially in the Southwest, and in other sunny regions of the earth, probably 80 percent of the days of the year might be depended on, which would yield an enormous total of available sun power.
From such experiments as have been made thus far, it appears that it is practicable to convert as much as 15 percent of the energy of the sun rays which strike the mirrors into mechanical work by these means. The constructions are all simple and inexpensive. There appears to be great promise that such an installation may be able, not only to use solar power in isolated sunny localities where fuel and water are expensive, but even to solve in a tolerably economical way the problem to which the world seems likely to come many years hence, of a substitute for present stores of coal and oil.

<<<Page: 271>>>

By Ra Ss BASSUEER Head Curator, Department of Geology, U. S. National Museum
Sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution, I spent the field season of 1936 in geological studies of several classic European areas, and in researches on fossil echinoderms and corals in the collections of various museums, especially in England, Germany, and Holland.
Early in 1914 the late Dr. Frank Springer and the Smithsonian Institution had completed plans for investigations on the Island of Timor, East Indies, mainly for the purpose of collecting the beautiful fossil echinoderms known to occur in the outcropping Permian rocks. Will E. Crane, an experienced collector and world-wide traveler, placed in charge of the expedition, was in Europe on his way to the East Indies when the outbreak of the World War ended the project. Since then, various expeditions to the Island from Holland and Germany have resulted in rich collections of fossils, which European scientists have described so that specimens became available. Exchanges, arranged by correspondence, resulted in the acquisition of valuable material, but for careful scientific work, actual casts of the types were needed.
After obtaining permission to make such casts of specimens in the geological museums of the University of Bonn and the Technische Hochschule at Delft, Holland, I left New York early in July, landing at Hamburg, Germany. Proceeding to Bonn, | prepared all the desired casts, through the friendly cooperation of Dr. Johannes Wanner, director of the Geological Institute of the University, and his associates. Dr. Wanner is the leading authority on Timor echinoderms, which present such unusual features that illustrations of some of the characteristic forms are here introduced (fig. 4).
Through the cordial assistance of Dr. Fritz Krantz, I was enabled to gain a good knowledge of the geology of the classic region around Bonn, located on the eastern edge of the Eifel Province of west Germany. In the immediate vicinity are the volcanic cones of the Siebengebirge, known to all travelers. The Eifel, in general, is located on the Slate Mountains, an ancient massif of folded Devonian strata which in the far past were weathered down to a general base level, that is, peneplained (fig. 5), and crossed by the Rhine River. Then, with more recent uplift forming a plateau, the Rhine has cut a deep

<<<Page: 272>>>

Fic. 4.—Permian crinoids (1-21) and blastoids (22-31) from the Island of Timor 4 “ r
2A (0.5 to 2 diameters enlarged). 1, 2, Rumphiocrinus; 3-5, Timorocrinus; 6, Parabursacrinus; 7, Bursacrinus; 8, Stachyocrinus; 9, Monobrachiocrinus; 10, Embrvocrinus ; II, Graphiocrinus; 12, Sycocrinus; 13, 14, Calycocrinus; 15-17, Syntomocrinus; 18, 10, Hypocrinus ; 20, 21, Cranocrinus; 22, 23, Nannoblastus; 24, 25, Timoroblastus; 26, Anthoblastus ; 27, Rhopaloblastus ; 28, 29, Pterotoblastus ; 30, Sphaeroschisma; 31, 32
Schizoblastus. 8

<<<Page: 273>>>

Fic. 5—View down the Rhine gorge showing the level peneplained surface of the Slate Mountain plateau with an old castle, and the toll island, Die Pfalz, in the river below.
Fic. 6—The volcanic peaks of the Siebengebirge, seen from Rolandseck on the left bank of the Rhine.

<<<Page: 274>>>

gorge, along which are located the ruined castles and other scenic features of this part of Germany. Many small volcanic cones, some still perfect in outline, were formed upon the plateau by eruptions at a comparatively recent date, geologically speaking, although before historic time, since there is no human record of them (fig. 6).
The seven peaks of the Siebengebirge, the outstanding feature of the landscape near Bonn, offer an especially interesting study in vulcanology. Here, the oldest volcano pierced the Devonian rocks in Tertiary times, as shown by the associated fossil plants, and covered a considerable area with trachite tuffs. Then came an eruption of solid trachite, best seen in the peak Drachenfels, whence the Romans frequently quarried the rock and where the material for building the Cologne cathedral was obtained. The next eruption brought andesitic lava with large crystals of hornblende, as shown in the Wolkenberg, and this was followed by the basaltic extrusives of the peaks Petersberg and Oeilburg. These lava flows are particularly interesting in that each one shows increasing basicity, that is, increasingly large amounts of iron and magnesia in the rocks. Action ceased in the Middle Tertiary but was resumed in Pleistocene time, when, in the Rodderberg crater nearby, ash was spread over the gravels of one of the Rhine terraces and the first glacial loess of the region. As the younger loess overlies the ashes of this eruption, the age can thus be definitely determined.
Leaving Bonn, I undertook collecting trips in the field and study of certain groups of Paleozoic fossils in the museums, first at Mainz, Frankfort, Stuttgart, Tubingen, and Munich, and later at Dresden, Leipzig, Halle, and Berlin, Germany. As a side trip from Berlin, the Island of Rugen, off the north coast of Germany, was visited in order to obtain an additional supply of the excellent Cretaceous fossils from that noted locality. Proceeding westward, I devoted some days at Holland to making casts of Timor echinoderms preserved in the Technische Hochschule of that city. Here, Dr. J. H. F. Umbgrove, professor in charge, was most helpful.
In the more detailed studies of American paleontology today, it has become increasingly necessary for the specialist actually to see the types of American species deposited in European museums. A portion of my time was devoted to this purpose, with particular attention to the types of Paleozoic corals and Lower Paleozoic sponges, in preparation for special researches on these groups. I also had the opportunity of compiling notes on the genera and bibliography of Paleozoic crinoids especially in the library of the British Museum of Natural History, so that a volume long ago planned by Dr. Springer can now be completed.

<<<Page: 275>>>

By E. P. HENDERSON Assistant Curator, Division of Physical and Chemical Geology, U. S. National Museum
In order to collect more complete series of specimens of the interesting mineral epidote for the National Museum, an expedition was sent to Prince of Wales Island, Alaska, early in the spring of 1936. More than one-third of the land in southeastern Alaska is in the group of islands which make up the Alexander Archipelago. Eleven hundred islands are reported in this group, and Prince of Wales Island, with an area of 2,800 square miles, is by far the largest.
The climate in this portion of Alaska is moderate, with mild winters and cool summers. There is a very heavy rainfall all over southeastern Alaska, and this, together with the mild climate, is responsible for the heavy growth of vegetation. The mountains are covered with timber up to about 1,800 feet, and under the timber is a junglelike growth of shrubs and berry bushes. The undergrowth 1s so dense that it is very difficult to traverse the country except along the deer and bear trails, and even when using these it is necessary to do considerable clearing. Below timber line there are no clean rock exposures, as everything is either hidden in undergrowth or covered by a carpet of moss. There are a great many different mosses, each kind apparently restricted to rather definite elevations. Prospecting is handicapped by this luxuriant vegetation and also by the heavy rains and fogs.
Prince of Wales Island, when viewed from a boat, presents a picturesque appearance with its irregular mountain masses and the great number of inlets which extend deeply into the island. The stand of large timber 1s so heavy that the undergrowth cannot be seen. One of the first things a newcomer notices in this region is the almost entire lack of beaches along the shores. The water is very deep right up to shore, and the hills and mountains rise rather abruptly from the water, although sheer cliffs are unusual. Snow collects on the mountain tops during the winter and remains on the highest peaks during most of the summer. Numerous old glacial cirques are noted on the island, but there are no active glaciers today. There are several intermountain lakes of considerable size which owe their origin to the glacial filling of the valleys. Snowslides are common, and the forests show many
2 Il

<<<Page: 276>>>

‘UOIJRAD[O JIoF OOQ'I MOJO SUIYJATOAD STOAOD YSIYAL Joquiyy JO purys AAvoY ay} Ssurmoys ureyunoyY Joddoy worf Mol A—g ‘DIY
‘uleyunoyy toddoy jo yead ay} JoAOD 0} Ysnous Moy sulsuey ‘spnojd Aeis—Aep ueyse,y [eoidA, y—Z ‘DI

<<<Page: 277>>>

Fic. 9—Doubly terminated epidote crystals from Copper Mountain, Prince of Wales Island, Alaska. (Natural size.)
Fic. 10—Group of epidote crystals (all twinned) from Green Monster Mountain, Prince of Wales Island, Alaska.
ios)

<<<Page: 278>>>

scars where the trees have been swept aside; these slides, however, are soon covered again by the brush.
Geologically, the island is rather simple, consisting of three different types of rocks: a metamorphic schist, a limestone, and a coarsegrained igneous rock which has intruded both the other types. Along the contacts between the igneous rock and the limestone there is a zone of contact metamorphic minerals consisting largely of massive garnets and epidote. In the garnet occur occasional pockets which are filled with well-formed crystals of epidote. These epidote crystals were first discovered during the development and mining of the copper sulphides that occur along the same contact. This is the best locality for epidotes in the Western Hemisphere.
Prior to this expedition, good crystals of epidotes had been found at only two localities on Prince of Wales Island: one, by far the more important, on Green Monster Mountain, above timber line, and the other on Copper Mountain, at timber line. The trails leading to both localities pass through heavily timbered country with a dense undergrowth. Conditions along these trails may be compared to those of a tropical jungle; delicate moss hung from the branches above and covered the fallen dead timber, and the undergrowth was always wet.
Prince of Wales Island is well known to mineralogists because of the characteristic type of epidote crystals which have come from Green Monster Mountain. Few crystals of unusual quality had been found on Copper Mountain, but during the summer an important new locality was encountered on this mountain. It yielded many elongated prismatic crystals, all possessing an exceptional brilliant luster. This newly discovered locality, after yielding a great many crystals, was completely exhausted.
The season’s work was most successful, and great numbers of fine single crystals and groups of epidote were collected from all the different localities. In addition the expedition obtained many fine twinned quartz crystals of the Japanese type, large groups of uralite, unusually large andradite garnets, and some good limonite pseudomorphs after pyrite.
This exploration trip was a cooperative undertaking between the United States National Museum and Arthur Montgomery, of New York City, and Edwin Over, of Colorado Springs, Colo. C. B. Ferguson, of Seattle, Wash., who was the original discoverer of these epidote localities on Prince of Wales Island, was also in the party, and his helpful suggestions and advice added greatly to the success of the work. One half of the material obtained was added to the Roebling collection of minerals of the National Museum, and the other half remains the property of Messrs. Montgomery and Over.

<<<Page: 279>>>

COLEECRING DEVONIAN FOSSILS IN THE: MIDWEST By 'Gaewk PELUR GOOPER
Assistant Curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, U.S. National Museum
In continuation of the 1934 and 1935 studies of middle Devonian strata and fossils of the Midwest the writer and Preston E. Cloud spent about 2 months studying and collecting Devonian areas in New York, Ontario, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Minnesota, and Michigan. Although all of these States except Missouri and Minnesota were visited on previous occasions, new localities were seen in each one. Important new data and many new fossils were obtained by the 1936 party.
The first stops on the itinerary for collecting were at East Bethany, N. Y., and Thedford and Arkona in southwestern Ontario. From Ontario the party proceeded to Sylvania, Ohio, where it was joined by Guy Campbell of Jeffersonville, Ind. The quarries at Silica near Sylvania were studied in order to determine possible relationships to Devonian beds exposed in southern and central Indiana.
In west-central Indiana, between Peru and Delphi, Devonian beds are exposed along the Wabash River and its tributaries. These were previously correlated with the lowest bed (Jeffersonville limestone ) of the middle Devonian of southern Indiana. Collecting in these rocks soon proved that the relationship of this Wabash Devonian is with the uppermost middle Devonian bed (Beechwood) of southern Indiana, rather than with the lowest bed of that sequence. These studies further indicated that these rocks along the Wabash are a southern extension of the upper part of the Alpena limestone of Michigan.
Between the Mississippi and Hlinois Rivers in Calhoun County, IIL, a narrow strip of highland contrasts strongly with the lower country to the east. A thin stratum of Devonian rocks is well exposed along the streams and bluffs in this interesting area. The upper part of this stratum appears to be directly related to the upper Cedar Valley formation of Iowa, but the lowest beds discovered in Calhoun County contain a fossil assemblage unknown elsewhere in this country.
Southwest of the old and quaint village of Ste. Genevieve, along Little Saline and St. Laurent Creeks, Devonian sediments appear in a number of faulted blocks which expose the Beauvais sandstone and the St. Laurent limestone. Both of these formations contain

<<<Page: 280>>>

“RIOIUTJ, 94} Sarj4aAO auoysoUT ABALI UBIUOAIT ‘€ “HONRULIOF JUIOG PABA dy} Jo P}eIYs Suid
-dip Ajues surmoys “yor ‘Aoyxsojod Teoul Auedwoy yuaway) purpysog Aaysojad oy} Jo Atsenb ‘z “UONeULIOF 1OMO TL pues uemoAs(, appar oy} Worf Udye} St opqreut of | “OL ‘e10zQ Jeou Adzenb ayqieur oy} JO MolA *I— IT “IY

<<<Page: 281>>>

“URISIAOPIC) JOMO"T 94} Y}IM JORJUOD o Joot SurMoYs “puy ‘nig sesu sy[eyy Yee1D odig ‘I—zI ‘DIY

<<<Page: 282>>>

middle Devonian fossils of the same species that occur in New York and Pennsylvania. The Beauvais sandstone is restricted to the Little Saline area, but the St. Laurent limestone appears elsewhere at the top of the Devils Backbone section at Grand Tower, Ill., where it has been erroneously called Lingle limestone.
Running west of St. Louis to Sedalia, Mo., in a strip north of the Missouri River, occurs a belt of Devonian rocks which have many peculiarities of their own. The lowest rock is the sparsely fossiliferous Cooper limestone which is overlain by the Mineola limestone. This is succeeded by the Callaway limestone and this in turn by the Snyder Creek shale. Correlation of this central Missouri Devonian sequence has long been a puzzle which can only be solved by detailed paleontologic studies. For this purpose large collections were made at a number of localities in this area.
The age of the Cedar Valley formation of Iowa likewise has been a moot problem for some time. A few previously visited localities and a number of exposures not seen in the previous trip were examined on this occasion. Although some species not found last year were obtained, little progress was made in determining the age and correlation of the Cedar Valley. From Iowa the party journeyed to the Devonian area of southern Minnesota in Freeborn, Mower, and Fillmore Counties. Here fossils occur as impressions in a yellowish dolomite. The species are clearly related to the Cedar Valley formation and the Lake Church formation of Wisconsin.
In Michigan 4 days were spent in the vicinity of Petoskey, and 5 days were devoted to collecting at Alpena. North of Norwood on the west side of the State a new fauna was discovered at the top of the middle Devonian (Traverse) sequence, and fossils were found near the base of the overlying black shales. These fossils indicate that that part of the black shale enclosing them is of upper Devonian, not Mississippian age, as previously supposed.
This collecting trip, together with those of the previous seasons, brought to the United States National Museum representative specimens from nearly all known or supposed middle Devonian formations in the Midwest. Many new species were obtained, and much data of importance to stratigraphy will accrue from the studies of the material collected.

<<<Page: 283>>>

By C. LEWIS GAZIN Assistant Curator, Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, U.S. National Museuim
The Smithsonian Institution 1936 expedition in search of fossil vertebrates set out from Albuquerque, N. Mex., on May 24, 1936, to investigate the early Eocene and Paleocene formations in and around the San Juan Basin of New Mexico. The party, consisting of George F. Sternberg, Harold R. Shepherd, and myself, established its first camp in picturesque Arroyo Almagre, near the Gallinas River, about 17 miles due north of Cuba, N. Mex. Arroyo Almagre, one of Prof. E. D. Cope’s early collecting localities, proved to be one of the most pleasant camp sites of the season. The variegated [ocene Wasatch beds of this area are cut locally into badlands and are exposed in a partially wooded setting, an almost ideal area to work, but unfortunately the scarcity of fossils prohibited our staying there more than 2 weeks. However, the small collection obtained, mostly Eohippus material, adds appreciably to the National Museum collection which was made by Cope in 1874.
On June 8 we moved camp to Kimbetoh, a Navajo Indian trading post about 70 miles southeast of Farmington, N. Mex., a locality well known to paleontologists who have collected in the classic Puerco and Torrejon formations, or in the extensively exposed Cretaceous beds of this area. Our investigations carried us from Arroyo Ojo Alamo, about 15 miles northwest, to Arroyo Torrejon, some 37 miles to the east. Confining ourselves to the known localities and horizons of Puerco and Torrejon, we were very fortunate in getting a collection of about 500 determinable specimens of Paleocene mammals. To these localities principally we owe the success of our expedition.
In the course of our travels we visited the ancient Indian villages along the Chaco River, a few miles to the south of Kimbetoh. Best known of these are the extensive ruins of Pueblo Bonito and adjacent sites which have been included in a national monument.
During the later part of our stay in the San Juan Basin we had the good fortune to meet Dr. T. E. Reynolds and his party from St. Louis University, and a few days later, Dr. G. G. Simpson with his father and daughter, all of whom joined us for a brief visit to the upper Torrejon exposures in Arroyo Torrejon.

<<<Page: 284>>>

Frc. 13—Camp at Kimbetoh. In the background can be seen several Navajo Indians about the trading post. The frame building on the right is the residence of Merrit Smith and family who manage the store since “ Shorty” Widdows’ retirement. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg. )
Fic. 14.—Southeasterly view across the principal collecting locality in the lower Puerco. Bitonitsoseh Arroyo about 4 miles east of Kimbetoh. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg.)

<<<Page: 285>>>

Fic. 15.—View eastward across the upper Pliocene deposits exposed on the T11 Ranch near Safford, Ariz. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg. )
Fic. 16.—View northward across upper part of embayment in the San Pedro Valley beds east of Curtis Ranch. The small excavation being worked in the center part of the photograph is the locality which produced the Curtis Ranch rodent collection. (Photograph by G. F. Sternberg. )

<<<Page: 286>>>

bo bo
Our experiences with the Navajos in the San Juan area were most interesting, and we had no difficulties whatever in our stay among them. On one occasion, while working in the lower Torrejon deposits in the upper part of Kimbetoh Arroyo, we were observed by some squaws, who set about collecting on their own some hittle distance from us. A few days later one of them brought their collection into the trading post, and we were informed by the trader, who acted as interpreter, that they wished to sell us the bones for 5 cents. The deal was closed for 25 cents. The collection included five good jaws.
Leaving the Paleocene area toward the end of July we continued our western trend to the Chuska Mountains in the eastern part of the Navajo Reservation. After reporting to the Central Agency at Window Rock we spent several days reconnoitering and examining exposures along the flanks of the range. The hope of finding mammalian remains, however, largely vanished when George Sternberg discovered fragmentary dinosaur bones well up in the section, in the highest exposures north of Tohatchi. Crossing the range at Cottonwood Pass, and farther north on the road between Lukachukai and Red Rock Valley, we found the wooded uplands with parklike meadows a most delightful contrast to the immediately adjacent desert areas of the San Juan Basin.
Our next trek was somewhat longer and took us westward into the Hopi Reservation and then south through the Apache country in Arizona to the Gila Valley. Investigation was made of upper Pliocene exposures near the town of Safford in the upper part of the Gila basin as a result of materials brought into the National Museum by Dr. M. M. Knechtel, of the United States Geological Survey. We obtained some additional specimens of two genera of horses, a mastodon, armored sloth, ground sloth, peccary, and more fragmentary remains of other forms. It was evident, however, that neither the material nor the exposures warranted a lengthy stay at this locality, so we then drove on to Phoenix, Ariz., where we had arranged a meeting with V. H. Housholder, a friend of the Institution. Mr. Housholder aided appreciably in establishing us in the good graces of the Curtis brothers, on whose properties we later worked in the San Pedro Valley. We camped at the Curtis Ranch about 14 miles south of Benson, Ariz., and with the help of Milton Curtis we reexamined all the localities from which Dr. Gidley obtained his collection in 1921. The exposures of slightly older age, probably Pliocene, in the vicinity of Benson were also examined, but the search proved relatively fruitless. The field work was terminated at Phoenix on August 15.

<<<Page: 287>>>

BIRDS.sOr like GUATEMALAN THIGHEANDS By ALEXANDER WETMORE
Assistant Secretary, Sinithsonian Institution
The steamship I/ctapan of the United Fruit Company brought me to Puerto Barrios, Guatemala, in the early morning of October 25, 1936. An hour later I was on a train bound for Guatemala City, located on a high plateau a day’s journey distant. In this modern capital governmental officials were friendly and cooperative, so that in 2 days I had the necessary credentials for travel and the collecting of specimens, and had completed other arrangements for field work.
Many years ago at my Alma Mater | had studied and identified an extensive collection of birds that included most of the common species of eastern Mexico and Central America. Now for the first time I was to have the thrill of seeing these birds in life.
Leaving Guatemala City my auto climbed up a mountain divide through a constant stream of pack mules, wagons drawn by oxen, and Indian porters bearing heavy and bulky burdens. After an hour of such travel I descended to the cobblestone pavements of Antigua, located in the valley of Panchoy at an elevation of nearly a mile above the sea. Here through the kindness of my good friend, Dr. Wilson Popenoe, I had as my headquarters the picturesque and comfortable Casa Colonial, built originally about 1635 and restored and furnished in the style of the early seventeenth century.
For 2 weeks I collected steadily in this interesting region, going out in early morning toward Duefias, where Osbert Salvin, the English naturalist, had worked extensively 70 years ago, or climbing the slopes of Agua, Fuego, or Acatenango, the three great volcanoes that stand guard over this and adjacent valleys. By a somewhat longer journey I could reach the upper edge of the Tropical Zone, below Las Lajas, at 3,200 feet elevation. Flocks of black-headed, black-breasted jays scolded and chattered from trees along the roadways, and long-tailed grackles, found in flocks through the country, were seen constantly. The glossy black males were called clarineros because of their curious songs, while the brown females were known as sanates in the beliet that they were a different species.
On the sides of the volcanoes above the cultivated fields were deep ravines or steep slopes covered with a heavy deciduous forest in whose undergrowth were many interesting birds. From the darkest shadows

<<<Page: 288>>>

Fic. 17—Antigua, founded by the Spaniards in 1543 under the sonorous name of Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala, lies in the picturesque valley of Panchoy.
Fic. 18.—The main patio in the Casa Colonial in Antigua, headquarters for field-work with the birds of Guatemala.

<<<Page: 289>>>

Fic. 19.—The plaza and the ancient church at Santa Maria de Jesus, high on the slopes of Volcan de Fuego.
Fic. 20.—Beautiful Lake Atitlan, at an elevation of nearly a mile above the sea, is encircled by mountains.

<<<Page: 290>>>

near the ground came a sweet song that proved to be a woodland wren (Henicorhina leucophrys), and in the trees above were woodpeckers, native warblers, and curious flycatchers. In contrast with this damp, wet woodland were the great barrancas or gullies, cut by the floods of the rainy season, in beds of volcanic ash on the southern slopes of Volcan de Fuego. In blazing sun I walked along the bed of one of these for miles before I found a place where the crumbling walls permitted me to climb out. Burrowing owls, black phoebes, and occasional swallows were the main avian inhabitants of this desolate section.
In early November a veritable flood of migrant birds from the North filled the woods, and on some days more of these were found than of the more secretive native species. In fact it was a general rule that any small bird feeding actively and openly through the branches of the trees where it was easily seen was a northern migrant. The native species skulked under cover, trained to this by centuries of the stones, blow guns, and slings of Indian boys to whom anything wearing feathers was a source of food.
Many of our small North American birds are governed by the contours of the continents in their migratory movements, and here in Guatemala their lines of travel were concentrated as though by the lower part of a funnel. It was fascinating to me to find associated on the mountain slopes species of birds that in the North are separated by hundreds or even thousands of miles. As an example, blackthroated green warblers of the East and Townsend’s warblers of the West ranged together in the same flocks, accompanied perhaps by black-billed cuckoos and rose-breasted grosbeaks from New England and western tanagers from the Rockies. The sensation of surprise at this intermingling was always with me, as in my mind I was accustomed to the separate ranges of these birds in the distant North.
From Antigua I crossed one pleasant morning through picturesque mountains to the town of Panajachel, where I found quarters in a small hotel on the shore of Lake Atitlan. The blue waters of the lake fill a deep valley and are bounded by steep slopes covered with milpas of maize, though in places the land sloped so abruptly that cultivation seemed almost impossible. The cones of two volcanoes rose directly from the shore.
On this lake there lives a kind of grebe (Podilymbus gigas) that is found nowhere else in the world. This was one of the objects of my work here, as we had no specimens of it in the National Museum. After some talk with boatmen to explain what was wanted I embarked in a little launch, and an hour later had a fine example of

<<<Page: 291>>>

Itc. 22.—The pines and cypress of the mountain forests of Guatemala harbor strange and beautiful birds.

<<<Page: 292>>>

this unusual bird. In color and habits it is like the well-known piedbilled grebe, the familiar hell-diver of the North, but 1s decidedly larger in size. It is secure from most hunting, as, like its northern relative, it has an uncanny agility that enables it to dive at the discharge of a gun and be safe beneath the surface before the shot can reach it.
After two days devoted to the water birds I turned my attention to the shores where land birds were found in abundance. The hummingbirds here were especially interesting in their variety and beauty of color. They are known locally as the gorrién, a name applied elsewhere in Spanish-speaking countries to sparrows. One of the anomalies of this country is a wren (fHeleodytes zonatus) that inhabits damp, wet woodlands, though allied closely to the cactus wren of the dry and arid lands of our southwestern deserts. Here also were further hordes of northern migrants, including such species as the indigo bunting, the Tennessee warbler, and the Baltimore oriole.
Leaving Lake Atitlan, I crossed to the town of Tecpam, at an elevation of a little over 7,000 feet, near the ancient site of [ximché, the Indian capital of this region at the time of the Spanish conquest. From here I drove slowly through the mud of a steep and winding mountain road, which in the rain and fog seemed to climb without end, until finally I arrived at Sierra Santa Elena, the estate of Senor Axel Pira, whose house was at an altitude of nearly 9,500 feet. On the surrounding slopes and above extended a great forest of cypress and pine, the former with trunks often 6 to 8 feet or more in diameter, and summits that towered 125 to 200 feet in the air.
With his wide knowledge of the local avifauna my host gave every assistance in my work. Birds were less abundant here than at lower elevations, but were of much interest because of the little that has been known concerning them. Crested jays were common and came regularly about the house. A species of junco was one of the most abundant birds, ranging both in woods and more open sections. One warbler (Ergaticus versicolor) was colored entirely in pleasing shades of red. Brilliant trogons hooted among the pines, and we had occasional glimpses of brown wood-hewers, climbing the tree trunks like woodpeckers, or of large hummingbirds that worked actively about red cardinal flowers growing in openings in the forest.
In these mountains there range representative races of a number of kinds of birds that are typical of the western United States. The long-crested jay has already been mentioned. With it were brown creepers and occasional golden-crowned kinglets, like our birds in

<<<Page: 293>>>

Fic. 23.—Indian porters bear heavy back loads for miles over the mountain highways, carrying as much as pack mules.
Fic. 24——The angular peaks of volcanoes form the background for most distant mountain views in the Altos of Guatemala.

<<<Page: 294>>>

appearance and habits but much darker in color. The hairy woodpecker here had a dull brown breast, and the bluebird was appreciably larger than the bird of the North.
One evening the fog cleared away and the night air was sharp and cold. The following morning the ground was white with a heavy frost, and the sun was bright. From an elevated point at 10,000 feet altitude I had a marvelous view over the mountains, with the water of Lake Atitlan in the distance, the ancient site of Iximché below, and 12 volcanoes ranged 1n a great semicircle in the background, as my eyes followed the line of the horizon.
On another day of sunshine we drove to Desconsuelo on the road to Quetzaltenango, where there are extensive areas lying above 10,000 feet. On the way we saw band-tailed pigeons and at the Rio Los Arcos obtained a specimen of the rare Guatemalan dipper, similar in color to its common relative of the North but smaller. An old Indian who begged us to give him this rare and valuable bird to eat was forced to be content with a coin instead!
After a day at the Finca Chichavac, among the pines and oaks at a lower elevation, and another day spent in hunting long-tailed partridges and other rarities in the wet forest of the higher mountains I had, with much regret, to leave this interesting and hospitable section and return to Antigua. Here I had two more days near Las Lajas studying the racquet-tailed motmots, the great squirrel-cuckoos, the cotingas, and the brilliant manakins of the Tropical Zone. Certain trees filled with insipid wild fruit attracted scores of birds. In one I found a dozen beautiful trogons of two species, mingled with abundant tanagers and other brightly colored birds.
With reluctance I finally packed my collections and after a short stay in Guatemala City traveled once more down to Puerto Barrios. Here there was opportunity for one last day afield, during which | crossed to the opposite side of the bay in a dugout canoe, or cayuca, to find curious vireos and other small birds that I had not seen elsewhere. On the return, black Gambo, the boatman, cut a huge palm frond, and with this as a sail we traveled easily with the steady trade wind across the bay. That night I was on board the steamship Platano for the return journey to New York.

<<<Page: 295>>>

By WATSON M. PERRYGO
Assistant Scientific Aid, Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum
As a considerable area in West Virginia was unrepresented in the National Museum’s collection of birds and mammals, during the past season, Carleton Lingebach and I were assigned the task of collecting specimens in that region. We left on April 16, 1936, for White Sulphur Springs, accompanied by Dr. Remington Kellogg. During the 2 days spent there, we set traps for a subspecies of flying squirrel, but were unsuccessful in our efforts. However, we did get some mice and birds. From there we continued to Huntington, in the southwestern corner of the State. We stayed there about 2 weeks, working up the Guyandot Valley to Logan, where, among other things, we got a Swainson’s warbler, this constituting the second record from West Virginia. We also worked up the Twelve Pole Creek to Dunlow.
Dr. Kellogg returned to Washington, and we continued on to Summersville, where the altitude reaches 1,750 feet. This section, about the middle of the State, is heavily wooded country, and rhododendron grows abundantly. Dr. Alexander Wetmore joined us here on May 8.
In Richwood we obtained permission from the forest ranger to visit Cranberry Glades, which is part of the Monongahela National Forest. We followed the Cranberry River, starting at an altitude of 2,200 feet, and went up to about 3,300 feet to the glades. This beautiful river is one of the finest trout streams in the State. The glades lie between Black Mountain and the Kennison Mountains and are grown with spruce forest beginning at about 3,000 feet. Birds are very numerous, especially the grouse, which we could hear drumming daily through the mountains. We saw several signs of bear, this section being apparently one of their main strongholds in the State. We saw here flat, moss-covered areas which seem to have been lake bottoms at one time. The scenery has a northern aspect recalling parts of Canada.
After Dr. Wetmore’s return to Washington, we went to Grantsville, where we spent a profitable week, obtaining a variety of birds.
In the northeastern part of the State we camped in an oak erove near Philippi. The hills here were more rolling and less steep than where we had been previously, the altitude being around 1,900 or 2,000 feet. Many kinds of birds and mammals were abundant here : we got a good collection of flying squirrels, as well as two Bewick’s

<<<Page: 296>>>

“BA YSOA\\ ‘UOLSUTZUN TT ‘dures suuny Ss UOs|
IM 1G—9z “1

<<<Page: 297>>>

ItG. 27.—Cranberry Glades, showing typical spruce forest.
Fic. 28.—Cranberry Glades, showing mounds of moss.

<<<Page: 298>>>

wrens. Copperhead snakes are very plentiful in this region, and under one rock 26 of them were discovered.
We returned to Cranberry Glades, where we lived in a government cabin. With squirrel traps on the trees and mouse traps on the ground we caught a number of specimens, among which was a new form of flying squirrel, since named by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., of the National Museum. This form is somewhat similar to the small flying squirrel of the East, but is larger and redder in color. It is related to the Canadian species. Among the most interesting birds collected from there were a nestling saw-whet owl and a new subspecies of song sparrow. Cranberry Glades proved most fruitful for birds and mammals.
For the next 6 days we camped on Shavers River in the Cheat Mountains. There we obtained a fine series of bird and mouse skins and more specimens of the flying squirrel mentioned above. These mountains are cool and damp, with fog every night, unlike others of the same altitude in other parts of the State. Deciduous and spruce trees thrive on the mountains, and balsam firs grow in the valleys. From here we went to Middle Mountain, where we stayed in a forest ranger’s cabin in a spruce forest. One morning as we started out we discovered tracks that seemed to be those of a puma, indicating that this animal may still live in the spruce forests of West Virginia. After making a profitable collection there, we returned to Washington July tro.
We left Washington for the autumn collecting on September 106, 1936. At Durbin, W. Va., we obtained the necessary permission to camp on Spruce Knob, the altitude of which is 4,860 feet. Our camp was 4,550 feet, and we were usually surrounded by clouds. As ravens abound there, we could hear them croaking most of the time. We added materially to the collection while we were there, in spite of the foggy and rainy weather. We learned from the old inhabitants that some time ago several porcupines had been killed on the lower ridges of the Knob.
After a stop at Summersville we continued to Flat Top and Cherry Pond Mountains, in the coal-mining region, where numerous birds and mammals were obtained. Returning to Huntington, we collected along the Ohio River up to Point Pleasant, making a fairly representative collection there. We then headed for home, stopping for 2 days at White Sulphur Springs, where we obtained the small subspecies of flying squirrel for which we had searched in the spring.
The success of this expedition was due largely to the courtesies and cooperation extended to us by local landowners and by the Conservation Commission of West Virginia.

<<<Page: 299>>>

By H. G. DEIGNAN
To make a zoological survey of the easternmost districts of North Siam for the Smithsonian Institution, I left Chiengmai on March 27, 1936, accompanied by my collector, Charlie Tan, and two servants. We traveled by rail as far as Denchai and spent the first night at Phre; the following day we engaged a lorry to take us to Nan. Owing to dust and heat, this was a trying trip, and little of biological interest was observed. The next day was spent at Nan, in order to engage a group of a dozen carriers and to make such necessary purchases as rice and kerosene. On Monday, the 30th, a late start was made, owing to the tardiness of some of the men, so that the coolest time of the day was lost. The route taken followed the motor road and telegraph line which are now under construction to Mu’ang Pua. It was excessively hot for walking, as the roadside trees have been felled and much of the forest has been destroyed by fires. No sign of cultivation was observed until, at the end of a long and arduous tramp, camp was made in the temple sala at Ban Pak Negao.
After several days of traveling on foot by road and trail, we reached Mu’ang Pua, the central village of a large ampho’, and consisting chiefly of government offices and the residences of officials, together with a number of Chinese shops. It is situated on a ridge, affording a fine view over a fairly extensive rice plain with a background of mountains, the most impressive of which are Doi Sakat and Phu Kha.
It was determined to go out from here to Phu Kha, 5,575 feet, the highest peak in the province. Accordingly, the carriers from Nan were discharged and a new group engaged to take our kit to the mountain, and a start was made on April 3. We now followed an uninteresting track across the dry rice fields, occasionally passing through villages. After the fields were behind us, we crossed a range of low foothills, covered with “ pa deng”; behind this range was another plain, ringed in by mountains, and with numerous villages hidden in groves of areca. The people in this valley are known as Khwn, and some of them seemed not to understand even the simplest Lao. We put up for the night at Ban Don, just under the steep

<<<Page: 300>>>

lower slopes of Phu itha. The temple at this village has walls of the usual white plaster, which a local artist has embellished on all four sides with black and white drawings of animals and mythological figures. We were the agents of a curious disappointment to the villagers. While we prepared specimens in the evening, the folk of the village gathered in the sala and sat quietly in rows on the floor. When no attention was paid them, little coughs began to be heard, until finally the head man, an old man of 74, asked when the “ nang ”’ would begin. Questioning elicited the fact that when a European had visited them many years before, he had shown them a magic-lantern show; accordingly, Europeans and magic-lanterns are inextricably associated in their minds.
Phu Kha is said to take its name from the abundance of “ ya kha ”, the strong and wiry grass which is used for thatch by the hill peoples. Like all the well-known peaks of the north, it is invested with legend by the dwellers at its base. It is inhabited by a host of mountain spirits, presided over by a “ phi luang ”’, with whom it is well to keep on good terms. Some allege that the peak is inaccessible ; others affirm that the summit possesses an abundance of gold and silver lying about on the ground under natural plantations of coconuts and pineapples. These wonders are to be found only by one who is not expecting them, and once found they vanish at the touch of a hand. Actually, the summit was visited in February 1921 by a party under the leadership of Dr. A. F. G, Kerr) representing the Botanical» Section of) the Ministry of Commerce.
Setting forth from Ban Don, the ascent of the mountain began almost at once, from an approximate altitude of 1,000 feet above sea level. The first thousand feet, which is very steep and difficult, is chiefly grass and scrub, the latter composed of the unpleasant /upatorium odoratum, which, originally a Neotropical plant, is in a fair way to cover all of Siam in time. These lower slopes owe their desolation to the unceasing and destructive activities of wood-cutters from the villages below. Above this belt the path follows ridges covered with open hill-forest (mainly Quercus spp.) overlooking deep valleys. Above 3,500 feet one finds dense evergreen jungle, in places much damaged by the hill-cultivation of the Yao. While passing through an area of hill-forest, we encountered a hamadryad, which was shot. Lying on the ground, the snake measured 67 inches, and when held up by the tail it was 5 or 6 inches longer. It is known to reach a length of 15 feet, 5 inches. This unpleasant beast came from a clump of grass beside the trail and advanced upon me with its head

<<<Page: 301>>>

‘eUM HY 10] UO J9}J9YS SITY} Ul JY StujzIOF B JUNdS 9A\—OL “DIY
peAipewey e dn
“eyy, HY tod] uo joys “JF 5 FYStoy ‘oyaeyy
SuIpjOy “ur
—'0z

<<<Page: 302>>>

raised a foot from the ground. I have no doubt that it was guarding a nest of eggs, although they were not discovered.
My own shelter for the following fortnight was a crudely built lean-to, roofed by thatch taken from the comparatively clean pigsties. We had scarcely completed it when a heavy electrical storm began, with a downpour which came through our thatch in cascades. As it was the season of the “ New Year rains”, every night of our stay there was a struggle to keep specimens and perishable goods from being ruined by rain. Fortunately, all our days were fine.
Although in April we found very little water on the mountain, the annual fall must be heavy indeed. A feature of the mountain is the presence of tremendous gulleys, with sides going steeply down, in some cases as much as 500 feet. Vegetation is dense and characterized by a great variety of plants of the liana habit. This made collecting unusually difficult, especially since specimens often dropped into the gorges, which meant letting oneself down hand over hand on the lianas—a perilous and usually unsuccessful undertaking. Wherever the jungle had been destroyed in the past for cultivation, “ ya kha” has sprung up, often reaching a height of 12 feet. In many suitable places are stands of wild bananas. The peak is capped with virgin evergreen above 5,000 feet, giving so dense a shade that in some places only ferns grow under the canopy. In the absence of paths this is a fortunate circumstance, since it 1s comparatively easy to make one’s way through it. The actual summit is a narrow and more or less level ridge, which is forested. Animal life was plentiful on the highest slopes, especially birds, which were in many cases quite without fear of man.
Mammals abound everywhere on the mountain, but few were seen, and none larger than the muntjak. Signs of tiger, sambhurr, bear, and swine were often found. A large porcupine made its home about a hundred yards from the camp and was frequently seen and heard at night; when annoyed by an electric torch it made a spitting sound like that of an angry cat. Among the small mammals collected were rats, squirrels, shrews, tupaias, and a mole. A honey bee and two species of butterfly were so numerous as to constitute a plague; they were no doubt attracted by the fresh carcasses of specimens, but swarmed over any object which had been recently handled, as well as on our arms, faces, and legs.
We descended the mountain April 18 with great difficulty, for the heavy rains of the past weeks had almost obliterated the trails and had covered the ground with a slimy coat of algae.

<<<Page: 303>>>

‘yodey dy} JaTJOo 0} dn os 0} Sdoquilfo apqeua saxtds ay} / DILIDgGpjDUut Vpquiog St ‘dAOIS IAISUd}X9 UP JO 9UO ‘9d1} IY T, “UPN IW 24} JO stioyeMpeoy oy} uO ‘dosN sue ny 1voau dured sno Woda} Jreys AjIea ue JOY Sursedoid ust ay} JO IUIOG—ZE “DIT “QOULAOTd UPN UL 9UdIS-JOIT}S ISLTPIA We “Oly

<<<Page: 304>>>

On April 20 we headed north, and after 4 days on the trail, reached Ban Din Tok, an out-village of Chieng Lom. The people in this province (Chieng Lom) proved to be very primitive, and travel became difficult because of the difficulty of finding food. At the entrances to villages ‘ goal posts ’’ are erected to prevent the ingress of evil spirits; the trail usually goes around and not through these gates, so it 1s difficult to understand why the spirits do not follow the path. Tigers are numerous, and people travel abroad in parties. Money is useful only for bodily decoration, so that coins are refused unless they are bright and new. As there is no outside trade, each village is economically self-contained; all wants are supplied within the group, 1f not the family, and there is no surplus to sell to the rare traveler, whether of fowls, rice, or fruit; the common Lao word for a market (“kat ’’) is not understood. Binocular field glasses were supposed to be a magic instrument for divining buried gold and silver. The presence of a European with mysterious paraphernalia excited great curiosity everywhere, and work was much impeded by the throngs of sightseers and persons seeking medical assistance. A number of “ miraculous cures” were performed with the aid of epsom salts, mercurochrome, and other simple remedies.
On May 3 the broad and sandy Me Nam Ing was forded at a place where it flows placidly between high banks of sand overgrown with the Siamese rose (/eosa clinophylla). Immediately after this crossing we found ourselves on vast marshy savannas, which we were to be 3 days in crossing, and which possess great biological interest. At some places are extensive areas of ankle-high grass; at others there are “pong ’”’, sometimes kilometers long, where large water-fow] abound ; wherever the land is a few feet higher, there are “ islands ” covered with a scrubby, parklike forest. On these plains occur herds of elephants and rhinoceros, and a considerable number of feral buffaloes, as well as many species of birds.
Chiengrai was reached on the evening of May 5 and several days were spent at this beautiful town, which, with its two rivers, dense vegetation, and picturesque mountains near at hand, is certainly one “of the most delightful places in Siam. From here we continued the trip by lorry, making a stop at Ban Me Chai, some 15 miles to the south, where there is a vast marsh which swarms with water-fowl. Unfortunately, there were fully 700 people, chiefly women, snaring fish at this place, and it was all but impossible to shoot without running the risk of shooting one of them. From here we continued our journey to Nakhon Lampang, whence a return was made to Chiengmai by train.

<<<Page: 305>>>

GREENE AND EXPEDITION OF 1936 Bye CAO Bie Rie Ace Bau Dilber
Again, in the summer of 1936, we went North on the Morrissey. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, Curator of Marine Invertebrates, United States National Museum, Washington, supplied us with a number of collecting chests, better equipped than ever, for obtaining specimens of the animal and plant life found in the seas along the East and Northeast Coast of Greenland. The primary object of the expedition was to secure two baby musk-oxen for the Chicago Zoological Society, Brookfield, Ill., and, if good fortune should attend our efforts, two live walrus pups as well.
From the Field Museum of Chicago came Mr. Harold Hanson to collect birds. Permission to gather these was obtained by our own State Department from the Danish Government. The Hydrographic Office of the Navy Department, as usual, lent invaluable instruments, charts, watches, nautical books, and sounding tubes. In return we undertook to keep a continuous record of surface temperatures, to report upon ice conditions as we found them, and to make a series of soundings and other hydrographic observations. Also for the Navy we put over drift bottles for the purpose of studying the ocean currents in that region.
These expeditions cost money, and so, in order to help finance the trip, | got 11 boys to come along. They came mostly from private schools and universities. They were as fine a crew of hard-working lads with a real instinct for the sea and plenty of the will to do as I ever sailed with. You couldn’t find their equal anywhere. Here they are: Effingham B. Morris III, Plymouth Meeting, Pa.; Francis C. Grant, Chestnut Hill, Pa.; Pete Cantrell, Strafford, Pa.: Phil C. Morse, Greenwich, Conn.; Stanley Burke, New York City; Jack Cunningham, Brookline, Mass.; Warner Kent, Scarsdale, N. Y.: Jefferson Kennedy, New York City; Thomas Wells, Menominee, Mich.; Ted Donaldson, West Orange, N. J.; John Beal, Newburgh Nay:
I had my usual crew of old hands, including my brother, Will Bartlett. Our medico was Dr. William Province, of the Presbyterian Medical Center, New York City, who, in addition to his job of doctor, had charge of the invertebrate and plant collecting for Dr. Schmitt. He made things very pleasant on board, and took excellent care of us all. On the wireless end of things was Clinton Voss, and our

<<<Page: 306>>>

Fic. 34.—Motor launch on a murre collecting trip, passing the glacier covered with red and green snow, Rathbone Island, Liverpool Coast, northeast Greenland.
Fic. 35.—Eskimo children, Angmagssalik, east Greenland.

<<<Page: 307>>>

Fic. 36.—Pete Cantrell gathering flowers and plants which were pressed and dried for the National Museum.
Fic. 37.—Dr. Province collecting red snow at Liverpool Coast, Jameson Island, northeast Greenland.

<<<Page: 308>>>

official photographer was Reg. Wilcox. Dr. Stanley T. Brooks, of the Carnegie Museum at Pittsburgh, went along as far as Brigus, where he left us to spend the summer studying and collecting the snails of Newfoundland.
Just before dark on June 21, 1936, we left City Island, N. Y. The first night came on dark as a grave, with rain falling in sheets. The wind, strong from the east, a head wind out of the Sound, forced us to put a single reef in the mainsail, and beat to windward all night under the three lowers. Between Stratford Shoal and the Long Island shore the dirigible Hindenburg flew over—a weird sight, with her brilliant lights showing down through the deluge of rain. :
The wind hauling around to the south, we shook the reef out of the mainsail, set the jib, and under the four lowers had the Pollock Rip Light Vessel astern the next morning. On the afternoon of the sixth day we anchored in Brigus. We were delighted to find Mother in splendid health.
After 24 hours’ stay, during which we took on board our second motorboat, the crow’s nest, and the other things which we always store at Brigus, we continued north. A quick run brought us well up the Labrador coast, but 4 days of head winds prevented us carrying on any work there, and we therefore bore away for the east coast of Greenland. Cape Farewell was rounded close in open water. Continued head winds precluded any attempt to make the Iceland coast ; as a result we had the unusual opportunity of sailing right up along the east coast of Greenland, where we saw many large birds and found very little drift ice. It was not until we reached the mouth of Davy Sound that we met any drift ice worth mentioning. At times there were strong head winds, and as we worked on northward to the Liverpool coast we discovered that the winds to the eastward had been exceedingly hard and persistent in the Easterly Quadrant. I was truly amazed to see seas as great as those rolling in on the shore.
Passing close by Cape Tattersall, we saw the red snow, Chlamydomonas nivalis. This beautiful and interesting natural phenomenon tempted me to alter the course in order to steam in near. The doctor was sent ashore in the dory to collect some of this snow for His Iexcellency, the Hungarian Consul-General, George de Ghika, who had given us the necessary materials for collecting it. Dr. Province succeeded in gathering it from the firm surface of the snow down to a depth of one-half inch. It was immediately placed in small vials containing a solution of formalin. While the doctor was on shore we towed the plankton net and dredged. Besides the red snow, the doctor

<<<Page: 309>>>

‘PUuURTUDIIT) JSeI ‘YI]TSSSeUISUY Je ssapur] “UdaI4) dn passoaip [ye ‘S1IJYSNVP YIM IIYIOPY— 6 TOE
Jou uo urd CIM IIUTAOL JQ 8

<<<Page: 310>>>

gathered a number of flowers, mosses, and willow shoots for the National Museum.
We were having fine weather now, but as our time was growing short it was necessary to keep going. Fortunately there was no ice to worry about. This gave us an easy passage to the coast, where our two musk-ox calves were obtained. The return trip to the south was made close in shore. None of us will ever forget the stark, snowcovered mountain ranges and beautiful fiords of that strip of coast from Scoresby Sound to Angmagssalik. At this latter hospitable place we had but a single day to spend. Governor Jensen, his wife, the hospital nurse, Pastor Rosen and his family, all old friends, gave us a grand welcome. The village is very neat and clean, the freshly painted church, stores, hospital, and wireless station giving it an air of great prosperity. Dr. Charcot and his ship, with 40 members of the expedition, had been here and were now working up north in the direction from which we had come. Naturally we were disappointed in not seeing them. What a shock when we heard on our return home of that awful tragedy in which their ship was wrecked, losing every soul except one man, and all their valuable scientific treasure !
We made a quick run from Angmagssalik to Brigus, as well as from Brigus to New York. There I handed over the boys to their parents in good spirits and the best of health, thanks to Dr. Province.
In the way of scientific specimens, we got an Arctic hare or two, a lot of birds, two musk-ox calves, and a number of plants ashore; at sea, other birds, sponges, shrimp, plankton and bottom samples, anemones, worms, and sea-squirts, starfish, and shellfish.
The stomachs of the birds and mammals taken were carefully preserved for study by Dr. Cottam, of the United States Biological Survey. He made some wonderful finds and got a great deal of valuable information out of those we obtained in previous years. He told me that what we obtained was of more than ordinary importance as they represented a far northern area in which but little critical study of the food habits of birds had previously been made, and that the majority of species of birds were poorly represented, or even entirely wanting, in the “stomach files” of the Biological Survey.
It is too early at this writing to tell what is yet to be gleaned in the way of scientific value and information from the collections we made on land and in the sea by hand and with townet, dredge, and sounding tube. We shall have to wait until they have been carefully worked over, studied in detail, and reported on by the specialists to whom the various specimens have been entrusted.

<<<Page: 311>>>

RE PURE eIES TOR VIRGINIA By AUSTIN H. CLARK
Curator, Division of Echinoderms, U. S. National Museum
Many unexpected records have turned up during the course of our investigations of the butterfly fauna of Virginia. Indeed, some of the anomalies in the distribution of these insects would seem to be unexplainable were it not that similar anomalies occur among the plants.
In July 1935 Mrs. Clark and I made a thorough survey of the Eastern Shore—Accomac and Northampton Counties—spending part of 2 days in the great Dahl Swamp. In the center of this swamp, in open sedgy areas (figs. 40, 41), we found rather commonly the dark form of the dion skipper (A¢trytone dion) called by Prof. A. W. Lindsey alabamae (fig. 42,C). This form was previously known only from one male and two females from near Mobile, Ala. Naturally we assumed that this form inhabited the coastal plain, the brighter typical form occurring farther north and west. So we were much surprised to find the latter (fig. 42, D) in the damp hollows among the sand dunes west of Cape Henry, farther south.
Considered one of the rarest of our native butterflies is the large satyrid called the creole (Enodia creola). Very few specimens exist in collections, and all of these are males—at least the female has never been described. All along the western border of the Dismal Swamp and in the smaller “dismals” farther west, especially along the Blackwater River, this butterfly is locally frequent, and in some places rather common. The female on the under side (fig.'42, A; B’) is just like the male and is easily distinguished from the female of the pearly eye (/. portlandia), which usually, though not always, occurs with it. Both of these butterflies are to be looked for wherever the great cane (Arundinaria gigantea), apparently their food plant,
is seen in the swamps.
The swamps along the Blackwater and Meherrin Rivers and the western border of the Dismal Swamp contain other surprising things. In a swamp along the Meherrin River near Emporia we found the grass nymph (Satyrodes eurydice), and Dr. G. W. Rawson found it in a swamp near New Bohemia on the Blackwater. Elsewhere we have found this species only in Fairfax County, and at Burks Garden in Tazewell County. At Zuni on the Blackwater River we were surprised to find the great spangled fritillary (Argynnis cybele), which

<<<Page: 312>>>

Fic. 40.—In the middle of the Dahl Swamp, Accomac County, Va. The home of Atrytone dion alabamae.
Ergueaie
Another view in the Dahl Swamp, Accomac County, Va.

<<<Page: 313>>>

Fic. 42—A, Enodia creola, 2, upper side, Dismal Swamp, Sept. 3, 1936; B, the same specimen, under side; C, Atrytone dion alabamae from the Dahl Swamp, July 25, 1935; D, Atrytone dion dion Cape Henry, Sept. 4, 1936; E, Neonympha phocion septentrionalis from west of the Dismal Swamp, Sept. 3, 1935, under side.
Fic. 43.—Polygonia faunus smythi from Mount Rogers (Balsam Mountain), July 15, 1936.

<<<Page: 314>>>

seemed quite out of place on the coastal plain. In all these swamps the little inconspicuous Carolina skipper (Amblyscirtes carolina) and the larger and more energetic woven-winged skipper (4. textor) are common, together with the Carolinian satyr (Neonympha sosybius ) and often the gemmed brown (JN. genuna), and early in the summer the little wood satyr (N. eurytus).
The rather rare Skinner’s skipper (Poanes yehl) we found in 1935 in the Dismal Swamp, and also in the Green Sea. In 1936 we found it rather common in a very thick brushy swamp near Princess Anne, where it could be seen—but not reached—flying about the flowers of the water-willows (Decodon verticillata). In 1936 we found, visiting the flowers of the pickerel weed in a dry pond in the southern part of Princess Anne County, very large individuals of the Delaware skipper ( Atrytone logan), resembling those from Florida.
One of the butterflies we were especially anxious to find was the Georgian satyr (Neonympha phocion). We finally located it west of the Dismal Swamp near the North Carolina line, and also near Lunenburg. In both places it occurred in the form called septentrionalis (higA2s TS):
No account of Virginia butterflies, however brief, would be complete without a mention of that finest of all the fritillaries, the Diana fritillary (Argynnis diana). We have records of this species from 17 localities from Bath County southward, and as far east as Bedford and Patrick Counties. It is very local, and we have nowhere found it common.
Abundant in the mountains is the smaller brown aphrodite fritillary (Argynnis aphrodite) which in some regions is the commonest butterfly. In the mountain pastures the still smaller meadow fritillary (4. bellona) occurs almost everywhere. Much scarcer is the silverbordered fritillary (A. myvina) which we have found only in a single field near Monterey. Common throughout the piedmont region is the great spangled fritillary (4. cybele), and in certain places the regal fritillary (A. idalia).
More than 100 years ago the green comma (Polygomnia faunus ) was figured by John Abbot from Georgia, whence it has not since been recorded. There are two or three records from North Carolina, and one from West Virginia. Assuming that this species should occur on Virginia’s highest peaks, White Top (fig. 44) and Mount Rogers —more generally known as Balsam Mountain—we visited this region in the summer of 1936. The butterfly was common on both mountains, but the individuals were larger and darker than those of the typical form from the mountains of New England and New York. So we

<<<Page: 315>>>

‘puouluuinad, aye] eu YOUp oyotsaf sy} Jo Yue oy} uo UURePY "JY Weyl “ssp pue YARD “SIP ‘dwueMs , joo} oo£e's ‘Ayuno) uosxeit
“1Y UMS ye YSotOF (VAQIA ) ‘doy, a4 — PP
snunp{
va) se

<<<Page: 316>>>

have named this southern form Polygonia faunus smythi (fig. 43) after our friend Prof. Ellison A. Smyth, Jr., who in 1896 raised some individuals from caterpillars that he found on a gooseberry bush in his garden at Blacksburg. Prof. Lorande Loss Woodruff, of Yale University, whom we had the pleasure of seeing at the University of Virginia’s biological station at Mountain Lake, Giles County, told us he had found this butterfly there, and later sent us specimens.
The butterfly fauna of Virginia is not static. It is undergoing constant change. One of the commonest species in the State is the orange eurytheme (Colias philodice eurytheme), conspicuous everywhere in open fields. This is not a native, but a recent intruder from the West. The corresponding native insect is the common sulphur (C. p. philodice), much like it but light yellow.
Before the appearance of the orange westerner the common sulphur was the most noticeable of the summer butterflies in the open country everywhere. As the orange westerner increased in numbers the yellow native gradually became less common, and for the last few years it has been distinctly rare except in the higher mountain pastures in the West where it has been able to hold its own against its orange rival.
During the past summer it was noticed in several different regions that the yellow native was more numerous than it had been for some years previously. Does this mean that the orange intruder has begun to decline in numbers, or was it due simply to some climatic feature of the year less unfavorable for the yellow native than for the orange immigrant ?
Other western butterflies from time to time secure a foothold in the State, or are regularly found in certain regions, but the eurytheme has been the only really successful colonizer.
The number of butterflies for which we now have definite records is 132, of which we have personally collected 116. Eight additional species are erroneously credited to Virginia on the basis of records from Virginia, State of Minas Geraes, Brazil; Virginia City, Nev. ; and West Virginia. Twenty-five species undoubtedly occurring in the State so far have eluded us.
We should be indeed ungrateful were we not to express our appreciation of the encouragement and assistance we have received from the people of Virginia. Never yet have we been refused permission to haunt a flower garden or stroll about a farm. We are especially indebted to Carroll M. Williams, of Richmond, Frank Morton Jones, of Wilmington, Del., and W. Herbert Wagner, of Washington, D. C., who have generously given us many interesting records from the State.

<<<Page: 317>>>

lane 18, 12 IQUE Associate Curator, Division of Plants, U. S. National Musewm
In identifying a small collection of plants I had obtained on the Florida Keys in the winter of 1934-1935 and in consulting the material from this region in the National Herbarium, I found, somewhat to my surprise, that this part of the United States was very poorly represented. There were no specimens whatever to illustrate several of the species known to occur on the Keys, and of many West Indian species that were reported to reach southern Florida there was no material to show their distribution within the United States. So in February 1936 I went to the Keys again, this time prepared to make collections large enough not only to supply the needs of the National Herbarium but to divide with other institutions.
3ig Pine Key was selected as headquarters, and so fruitful did it prove that, with the exception of a short visit to nearby Torch Key, all work was done on Big Pine. This is one of the larger of the Lower Keys, and is situated about 35 miles, by road, east of Key West, its greatest length running north and south. [xcept for the mangrove swamps and salt marshes bordering the sea, it 1s covered largely by pine and palm woods. Hammocks, which occupy a considerable portion of some of the Keys, are not an important constituent of Big Pine. Three hammocks were visited, one of which, at the southeastern corner of the Key, was of exceptional interest because of the many kinds of cacti growing along its edge. Submerged in the shallow waters about the southern side of the Key were linear-leaved aquatics (Cymodocea and Thalassia), related to ditch-grass and eel-grass and infrequently collected. In the salt marshes bordering the sea were species of Salicornia and, in great abundance, a very rare sea-lavender (Limoniuim angustatum). A large part of this area was covered by a densely tufted, creeping grass, with very sharp leaves (.\Jonanthocloe).
Most of the collecting, however, was done in the pine woods, the floor of which made a fair display of color. There were the blue, purple, and lavender flowers of Gerardia, Ruellia, and Lbletia, the last a terrestrial orchid; the yellow flowers of Acacia, Cassia, and other legumes, as well as of Compositae ; and the small white flowers of Samodia and Croton.

<<<Page: 318>>>

Fic. 46.—Woods of pine and palm on Big Pine Key.
Fig. 47.—Destruction of the vegetation on Upper Matecumbe Key by the flood of water accompanying the hurricane of September 1935.

<<<Page: 319>>>

Fic. 48—Tropical dogwood, Big Pine Key.
Fic. 49.—Gathering fish by the primitive method of using the roots of plants.

<<<Page: 320>>>

One of the most striking trees of the Key 1s the tropical dogwood (Piscidia communis), a member of the pea family, and not at all closely related to our common well-known dogwood. Its nearest allies are the tropical genera Lonchocarpus and Derris, some of the species of which contain rotenone, an important ingredient of many insecticides. The roots of these plants are used by the natives in many parts of the tropics for fishing. Some years before, on an expedition to the Amazon Valley, I had watched the Indians chop up the roots of Lonchocarpus, which they called “ cube”, “ barbasco ”, or “ timbo ”, mix them with water, pour the resulting liquid into a stream, and wade in to capture the paralysed—not truly poisoned—fish. As the Division of Fishes of the National Museum was desirous of obtaining specimens of the smaller fish inhabiting the waters about the Florida Keys, on both of these visits to Big Pine I experimented with the use of the roots of Piscidia in the small pools of the Key and in the little lagoons shut off from the sea by the ebbing of the tide, and as a result obtained about 300 fish.
Even in these Lower Keys there is a definite winter season, though, of course, it is not so well marked as farther north. At the time of my visit this season had just reached its end, but as there had been heavy rain, the flowers were well advanced, and a total of 208 different species in flower or fruit are represented in the collection.

<<<Page: 321>>>

ARGHE OLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS ON KODIAK AND ii ALE Om EAN rSE AND S
By ALES HRDLICKA Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, U. S. National Museum
To continue his archeological investigations in Alaska, that important area for the study of the origin and early migrations of the American Indian, the writer left Washington on May 10, 1936, for his eighth season’s work there. In Seattle he met four volunteer workers, namely, Sydney Connor of Girard College, George Corner of the University of Rochester, Maj. Alan G. May of Wenatchee, Wash., and M. F. M. Osborne of the University of Virginia. On May 16 the party boarded the steamer Yukon of the Alaska Steamship Company ; they transshipped at Shepard’s Point, near Cordova, to the Coast Guard ship Talapoosa, and on May 22 arrived at Larsen’s Bay, Kodiak Island.
The success of this whole rich season was largely due on the one hand to my faithful associates; on the other, to the aid and cooperation extended by numerous concerns and individuals. Grateful acknowledgment is due to the Alaska Packers’ Association, with its Larsen’s Bay Superintendent, Gordon Jones; above all to the U. S. Coast Guard, to its Commodore, Capt. R. W. Dempwolf with Mrs. Dempwolf, and to Commanders Miles H. Imlay, L. V. Kielhorn, G. T. Finlay, and Hans Hanson, of the Talapoosa, the Chelan, the Shoshone, and the Alert, respectively, and to all the officers of these ships, as well as the men, who were so helpful and patient with our tasks. In addition, sincere thanks are hereby extended to H. W. Jewell, O. J. Murie, and the rest of the officers and men of the S. S. Brown Bear of the Biological Survey, for their aid, collections, and information; to the captain and officers of the S. S. Vega of the Navy; and to the Naval authorities for the transportation of the party and collections. Thanks also are due to Mr. Pedler, head of the Alaska Commercial Company at Unalaska, and to Mr. Willys, the representative of Mr. Pedler at Dutch Harbor, both of whom gave much friendly assistance.
From May 22 to June 26 excavations were carried on at our point on Uyak Bay, Kodiak Island, and brought to a satisfactory conclusion. Approximately two-thirds of the important site there, including its entire “ heart ”’ and the whole point projecting into the bay, have been

<<<Page: 322>>>

‘JIS PO odie] Y 3 (4SeM) exysiyj—i1G “Oly
‘OHS pues] Yeuyeury—oS “oly

<<<Page: 323>>>

“SUOIJPABIXO JO PUD Je 9}IS P}IT 94} ye saansodxy—es “oy
Taco Ole

<<<Page: 324>>>

excavated to the glacial till which underlay the deposits; and ample soundings and tests were made of the remainder. The excavations added 14 more boxes of specimens to our collections from this rich site, again including some unique individual objects. About an acre and a half of deposits still remain, but the main problems presented by the site, it was felt, had been cleared, so that the results that might be expected from additional work would scarcely justify the necessary time and expense. The excavation of the site covered three whole seasons and substantial parts of two others.
On June 26 the party was taken on board the revenue cutter Alert and transported to Unalaska. There, while fitting out and awaiting further transportation to the Aleutians, excavations were started on what proved to be a valuable pre-Russian site, approximately a mile to the west of Dutch Harbor. These excavations resulted in numerous specimens and several burials which proved highly interesting, both in their relation to and their differences from the finds on Kodiak.
On July 5 the party left on the Coast Guard vessel Shoshone for the islands Atka, Kiska, and Attu, of the Aleutian chain. A few hours’ excavation at a promising site on Atka yielded a series of specimens. Kiska was reached on July 7 and from here one of the party, Major May, was sent to make a survey of and do some preliminary exploration in the sites of Attu; two others were placed the next day on Little Kiska, where a fine old site was discovered; and two remained on Large Kiska, where for the next 10 days they carried on excavations in a site of the Russian period.
The stay on the island extended until July 27. Two days before we left Kiska we were visited by the S. S. Brown Bear of the Biological Survey and from her officers received valuable information, specimens, and aid. This vessel, furthermore, enabled us to reach and do some work on a large old site on the western coast of Large Kiska, which previously had remained unapproachable.
The work on the westernmost islands proved very helpful and gave many specimens of cultural nature, but skeletal remains of man were almost absent, the people here, as well as elsewhere in the Aleutian Islands, having evidently buried many of their dead either well apart from the sites or in more or less distant caves and crevices, which could not be located with the means and time at our disposal and under the great handicaps of almost constant fogs and frequent stormy weather.
Mainly as a result of the information and specimens brought to us by the officers and men of the Brown Pear, the party next endeavored to reach Kagamil, one of the Four Mountain Islands, where an important mummy cave was known to exist. The first effort to reach

<<<Page: 325>>>

Fic. 55.—Kagamil Island: Moving collections by relays to a little bight threequarters of a mile away, where they could be put on a boat.

<<<Page: 326>>>

the island, on our return from Kiska, proved fruitless, owing to heavy fog which would not permit even a glimpse of the island nor of the two great volcanoes in its vicinity ; but fortunately, with the aid of the Coast Guard, it was possible to return to the region when the weather was more propitious. The cave was then found and yielded a large number of desiccated bodies and other specimens, though much of the covering materials and even the bones had been damaged by foxes. Another such cave was discovered independently and found to contain many additional burials, also disturbed and badly damaged by foxes. This cave also yielded large collections, which with great pains, the sea now running a considerable swell, were taken out, transported to the larger vessel and into Unalaska. The collections from these two caves promise to be of signal importance. One of the skulls found here is the largest normal skull ever discovered on the American continent.
When the party returned to Dutch Harbor August 7, work was resumed at the old site at Dutch Harbor, yielding many additional objects. On the evening of August 14 the U. S. S. Vega arrived; the collections were placed aboard that same night, and on August 15 the return journey commenced. At Seattle, which was reached August 23, the collections were transferred directly to a railroad car, and our little party disbanded.
The collections comprised 68 boxes and large barrels—the largest single year’s gathering yet brought from Alaska. They contained numerous desiccated bodies, ranging from infants to adults, some in excellent state of preservation ; many additional skulls and other parts of the skeleton; large numbers of stone, bone, and ivory cultural objects ; and the principal bones of the food animals and birds found in the different excavations and gathered for identification.
From the scientific point of view, the expedition means a material advance in our knowledge concerning the people of the Aleutian Islands; but conditions there were found to be too complex to permit of any prompt and definite conclusions. The islands contain collectively, it was learned and seen, hundreds of sites, many of which are pre-Russian and cover from 2 to upward of 8 acres of ground. Besides this, there are innumerable caves and crevices, some of which doubtless contain burials and with them perishable cultural objects, which, as shown by the Kagamil caves, promise to throw unexpected and in some respects astonishing light on the culture of the preRussian people of these regions. The skeletal remains further indicate the presence, although so far found only in admixture, of both the ethnic elements shown by the excavations on Kodiak Island.

<<<Page: 327>>>

ARCHEOLOGICAL EXCAVATIONS AT BERING STRAIT BY HENRY By COLEINS, JR.
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum
Previous archeological investigations of the Smithsonian Institution in northern Alaska have centered for the most part on St. Lawrence Island and around Point Barrow. The excavation of large quantities of material from abandoned Eskimo village sites of different ages at these places has made possible the establishment of a chronological sequence extending from the present time back to the Old Bering Sea, the oldest stage of prehistoric Eskimo culture thus far known. However, full coordination of the results of the work on St. Lawrence Island and at Barrow was not possible in the absence of comparable detailed information from the intervening region of Bering Strait. This, accordingly, was the area selected for investigation by a joint expedition of the National Geographic Society and the Smithsonian Institution in the summer of 1936. A second objective of the expedition was a thorough search for pre-Eskimo remains in the vicinity of Bering Strait, where, according to all indications, man first entered the American continent.
Our party, consisting of the writer, James A. Ford, and Harrison Prindle, sailed from Seattle for Nome on June 3, 1936. After a few days at Nome we engaged Ira Rank’s schooner, the Trader, and proceeded up the coast to Cape Prince of Wales at Bering Strait. The ice, which usually prevents the larger boats from entering Bering Strait before July 1, had not yet disappeared, but through the skillful navigation of Capt. Pete Poulson, we got through, in spite of the heavy fog, and reached Wales on June 17. On the kind invitation of Mr. and Mrs. Carroll E. Black, the Government teachers, we moved into the school building, which served as our headquarters.
Excavations were carried on from June to September in an extensive kitchenmidden on the high bluff at the south end of the village and at another midden—an isolated mound—known to the Eskimos as Kurigitavik, situated on the low plain just back of the present village. In a sense these were classic sites, for it was here and on the nearby Diomede Islands in 1926 that the systematic excavations of Dr. Diamond Jenness, of the National Museum of Canada, had brought to light the first evidence of successive stages of prehistoric Eskimo culture in northern Alaska.
One of the most important problems of Eskimo archeology has been the exact status of the Thule culture in Alaska. The ruined sites

<<<Page: 328>>>

Fic. 56—The ruins of an old Eskimo house, found in the abandoned mound site at Wales. Because of the permanently frozen soil, 2 months of careful digging were required to reveal the structural features here shown.
Fic. 57.—The ruins of another structure found in the same midden. 64

<<<Page: 329>>>

Fic. 58.—A small sand mound, belonging to the Birnirk stage of culture, was found 2 miles north of Wales. In it were found six burials, one of which 1s shown above.
Fic. 59.—View of the Eskimo village on Little Diomede Island. Stones are still used in the construction of the houses.

<<<Page: 330>>>

of this prehistoric Eskimo culture are found widespread throughout northern Canada and Greenland, and though it has long since disappeared over most of this area, it has survived in but slightly modified form among such groups as the Polar Eskimos of north Greenland and the recently extinct Sadlermiut of Southampton Island in Hudson Bay. Therkel Mathiassen, the Danish archeologist who first discovered the Thule culture in the Central regions, was able to show that it had originated in Alaska, whence it had spread eastward probably around 1,000 years ago. On attempting to fit the Thule culture into the Alaskan sequence, however, we find that the oldest Alaskan sites—those found on St. Lawrence Island, Diomede Island, and Point Barrow—are demonstrably pre-Thule, and that the sites showing the most pronounced Thule characteristics are so recent that it seems necessary to postulate a return or westward flow of Thule culture into northern Alaska within the past few centuries. The peculiar significance of Kurigitavik, the old mound site at Wales, lies in the fact that it is an actual Thule site, the only one thus far known in Alaska. Among the thousands of artifacts excavated at this old site during the past summer we found no evidence of those types that had been introduced into Alaska by the recent return movement of Thule culture. On the contrary, the old Wales site was found to be contemporaneous with the Punuk, or intermediate stage of culture on St. Lawrence Island ; it had evidently been occupied at a time when other groups of Thule
Eskimos, probably east of Barrow, were pushing out still further eastward toward the Hudson Bay region. We were also able to obtain stratigraphic evidence, based mainly on harpoon heads, that the Thule culture as represented at the old Wales site was a direct outgrowth of the Birnirk, the dominant phase of prehistoric culture in the Point Barrow region. We were fortunate in discovering also a pure site of late Birnirk culture 2 miles north of Wales. This is the first Birnirk site known outside of the Barrow region.
Early in July Mr. Ford left Wales for an archeological survey of Kotzebue Sound and to conduct further excavations at old sites near Wainwright and Barrow where he had worked in 1931-32. Valuable evidence was obtained confirming previous determinations that the cultural sequence in this region was Old Bering Sea to Birnirk.
In addition to the work at Wales, explorations were made by umiak up Lopp Lagoon, down the south coast to Cape York, and over to the Diomede Islands at the middle of Bering Strait. On these trips minor excavations were made at a number of smaller sites on the mainland; most of these were found to be relatively recent, having been abandoned in the eighteenth or nineteenth centuries.

<<<Page: 331>>>

Fic. 60.—A recently abandoned Eskimo house on Big Diomede Island. In the foreground is shown the outer opening of the stone-walled entrance passage. The small wooden shelter covers another entrance to the passage, and behind this is the main or inner room which is semisubterranean.
Fic. 61.—A dead whale which has drifted ashore near Wales provides meat for the entire village. The Eskimos are particularly fond of the black outer skin, or “ muktuk.”

<<<Page: 332>>>

The site on Little Diomede Island, though highly important, is one of the least accessible because the houses of the present village are built directly over the refuse that has been accumulating for countless generations. In previous years the Eskimos have carried on desultory excavations, and it was here in 1926 that Dr. Diamond Jenness and Dr. Ales Hrdlicka first obtained some of the elaborately ornamented objects of “ fossil”’ ivory of the Old Bering Sea culture, the oldest stage of Eskimo culture thus far known in the western Arctic. On my first brief visit to the island in 1929 the large pit in which the Eskimos had been digging for 3 years had reached a depth of over 10 feet, and I was able to buy some of the material they had excavated, including some splendid examples of Old Bering Sea art. This pit has since been filled in, and with the frozen ground and the many large boulders it would probably require a full season of excavating before the Old Bering Sea level could again be reached.
On all of the trips along the coast, and particularly at Wales itself, a careful search was made for older cultural remains, but nowhere— either in the stream valleys, along the coastal escarpments or at the base of the mountains—did we observe any traces of human occupancy antedating those of the Eskimo. While we may assume, on theoretical grounds, that Bering Strait was the original gateway through which man entered America, it now seems evident that any cultural remains dating from that remote period, if present at Bering Strait, have been completely covered over as a result of physiographic changes that have taken place within the past few thousand years.
Minor changes of this nature have occurred recently enough to have affected even some of the Eskimo sites. Our previous investigations on St. Lawrence Island and at Point Barrow have revealed local changes of topography—both a building up and a subsidence of certain coastal areas—since the time of the Old Bering Sea, Birnirk, and Punuk cultures. A somewhat similar condition is observed at Wales. Here the low, marshy foreland extending to the north and west of Cape Mountain is itself a recent feature geologically. Since an intensive search along the junction of the foreland and the mountain slope revealed no traces of human occupancy, it would appear that the first Eskimo settlement at Wales occupied some part of the high talus slope at the south end of the present village, where it is now deeply buried beneath deposits of refuse from later years. Rows of low residual sand dunes along the narrow strip of land between Lopp Lagoon and the sea, and the occasional presence of abandoned Eskimo sites of post-Birnirk age on or near some of them, provide further evidence of a recent extension of the coast line.

<<<Page: 333>>>

NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN THE PROBLEM OF THE PORS@M iC OMPIERX
BY PRANTOE EH. ROBERGES, JiR:
Archeologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
Investigations of the Folsom complex and its significance in the field of American archeology were continued during the summer of 1936. Most of the work centered at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado, but two other localities where the same type of remains have been found were also studied. One of these was in Iowa, the easternmost occurrence of true Folsom material thus far noted, and the other was near Kersey, Colo., some 50 miles southeast of the Lindenmeier site.
Several typically fluted projectile points of the Folsom type have been found along Kenyon Creek, Fremont County, in the extreme southwestern corner of Iowa. One of these points and a number of scrapers were washed out of the stream bank a few miles from the town of Anderson. The writer, accompanied by Christie H. Hein, who reported the finds, visited the site in June. The creek has cut down through the thick alluvial deposits characteristic of the region, and at the present time its bed 1s along the top of a hard, light-colored clay deposit which underlies the district (fig. 62). Along the top of this substratum, separating it from the upper levels, is a thin, dark soil line from which the artifacts probably came. Digging along the bank near the spot where the point was found produced some chert flakes similar to the stone in the point and scrapers, and some fossilized bison bones. Ina large collection of objects from an old Indian village site nearby there is no material comparable to that from the creek bank. The position of the stone flakes and the bone fragments shows that they are considerably older than the village site. The area is a promising place for additional evidence on the Folsom problem.
The site near Kersey, Colo., was discovered in the early summer of 1935 by F. W. Powars and his son Wayne, residents of Greeley. The writer visited it twice during that season and in August 1936 did some digging there (fig. 63). The remains are located on a low terrace of the rolling terrain comprising the south side of the South Platte River valley. Available evidence indicates that it was a camp occupied for only a relatively short period of time, in comparison with the Lindenmeier site. That tools were made there is demonstrated by

<<<Page: 334>>>

es Me ee ev SS
Fic. 62—Bed of Kenyon Creek. Man is standing where implements were found.
Fic. 63.—Starting work at Powars Site near Kersey, Colo.

<<<Page: 335>>>

Fic. 65.—Split bison bones in situ. Scale rod is 2 feet in length.

<<<Page: 336>>>

the number of implements broken in the process of manufacture and the quantity of chips and flakes scattered over the area. Specimens represent a typical Folsom complex and are so similar to those from the Lindenmeier site that in a mixed group it would be difficult to distinguish those from the two sites. Bones are scarce, and the few examples recovered are so fragmentary that they are of no value in determining the animals represented.
The Powars site presents a peculiar problem in that the objects occur either just below the surface or at a depth of from 1 foot to 18 inches. There are no traces of an actual occupation level. The possibility that the material is drift from higher slopes was investigated, but nothing was found to indicate that it could be attributed to such an occurrence. The probable explanation lies in the fact that the soil is sandy and easily swept away by wind. As a consequence the upper levels have disappeared. The stone objects were too heavy to be moved by such action and remained as “ floats” on each new surface appearing subsequent to storms. When the field was plowed a few years ago they were turned under to the depth found. Recent tilling has tended to distribute them somewhat in the upper level. The digging of a test pit 6 feet deep failed to reveal anything below the maximum 18-inch level of disturbance. Hence it appears that the material is practically a surface deposit.
Excavations at the Lindenmeier site were restricted to three locations. One of the areas was adjacent to the pit where the remains from nine individual bison were found, and the other two were near the large trenches that constituted the major part of the preceding season’s operations. The digging in the vicinity of the bison pit was for the purpose of obtaining additional bone material in the hope that other identifiable animals would be found (fig. 64). The results exceeded expectations as a number of foot bones from the camel, probably Camelops, were obtained in direct association with those from bison. This adds one more extinct species to the animals associated with Folsom material. The assemblage of bones at this place throws an interesting sidelight on one of the customs of the people, namely, that on occasion the animals were cut up and cooked at the scene of the kill. The hacked and split bones (fig. 65), as well as numerous stone implements, were found covering an area of 250 square feet. They were close to the place where the bison skeletons occurred, although on the windward side. There was evidence demonstrating that the carcasses of the animals had been dismembered and the meat cooked and devoured on the spot. There was no actual hearth, but the remaining charcoal and ashes showed that a sizable fire had burned there on the

<<<Page: 337>>>

Fic. 67.—Cut bones and stone objects before removal.

<<<Page: 338>>>

surface. Many of the bones are charred, and several projectile points recovered from the debris exhibit the effects of fire, suggesting that they were in the meat when it was roasted. The excavations here also revealed the fact that the barbecue was held on the bank of a small stream which had flowed along the bottom of the old valley. There were no indications of this former physiographic feature until it was brought to light by the digging. An additional item of interest concerns the finding of the tip ends from two Yuma blades, a type of point present in the Plains area to the east which has been thought to have some affinity to the Folsom complex. Both of these specimens came from a much higher level than the Folsom implements, an indication that at this site they represent a considerably later date.
Work was undertaken alongside of the previous year’s trenches because finds made in them suggested that they had bordered upon, if they did not actually cross, a portion of the camp site (fig. 66). An area measuring 15 by 30 feet was cleared at one place, and the overburden was removed from a surface of 625 square feet at another. There was ample evidence of occupation, although there were no traces of shelters or habitations, and remains of true fire pits were absent. At one place a pile of 656 stone flakes and one partially completed knife blade clearly indicated that an implement maker had been seated there busily engaged in the manufacture of tools. Other parts of the excavated area exhibited features similar to those described in connection with the feast at the bison pit. Here again were numbers of cut and split bones and the tools used in the process (fig. 67). In addition there were traces of surface fires, quantities of chipper’s debris, and numerous broken and unfinished tools. The latter add materially to the information already obtained relating to the techniques employed in the making of implements. The specimens found here also include several new types of tools.
One of the most significant facts established by the 1936 excavations is that the site was occupied before, as well as during, the formation of the thick black-soil layer produced by heavy vegetation that thrived when conditions were more favorable than those of recent times. That the people were there prior to the inception of this extensive growth cycle points to an even greater antiquity than was evidenced by the presence of materials in the bottom of the soil profile. The full import of this feature can not be determined, however, until the completion of geologic studies of the deposits. The latter were started in 1935 by Dr. Kirk Bryan, of the Division of Geology, Harvard University, and were continued during the 1936 season, under Dr. Bryan’s supervision, by Louis L. Ray.

<<<Page: 339>>>

By WILLIAM DUNCAN STRONG Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
In 1523 the great Mexican empire of the Aztecs lay humbled in the dust. Hernando Cortez, the conqueror, was already seeking other new worlds to conquer. Hearing fabulous tales of the wealth of the great jungle province of Honduras, he sent Cristobal Olid to conquer it. At that time the city of Naco was the greatest Indian metropolis of Honduras. Located on the Chamelicon River, close to the great valley of the Ulua, it was the center of an important agricultural and industrial civilization. Olid conquered the city and drove its numerous Indian inhabitants into the jungles or the mines. According to the priest-historian Las Casas, over 2,000,000 Indians perished in this region within 12 years. Olid was later beheaded in the plaza at Naco. Part of the desperate little army of Cortez ended their foolhardy but unsurpassed march across Yucatan at this place. Bernal Diaz, fighter and historian, lived here for many months. Yet prior to 1936, no scientific party had ever examined the ruins of Naco.
To determine the nature of this early historic civilization and to unearth the prehistoric sources from which it arose were the main purposes of the joint expedition of the Smithsonian Institution and the Peabody Museum of Harvard University which worked in Honduras from January to July, 1936. Led by the writer, this expedition included Alfred Kidder II, Drexel A. Paul, Jr., Mrs. Kidder and Mrs. Strong. The expedition was assisted throughout by the United Fruit Company. To Dr. Wilson Popenoe, Walter S. Turnbull, Reginald Hamer, and many other officials of the company we are deeply indebted. The government of Honduras was extremely cooperative and aided us in every way. For these favors we are most grateful. Owing to the size and importance of the field, our work was primarily that of a stratigraphic reconnaissance, but very promising results were achieved.
The ruins of Naco are located around a small native town bearing the same name. It is a large site extending for several kilometers along the beautiful little Naco River. Small ceremonial and house mounds cover a large area centering around the present pueblo. Back of the ancient plaza we cross-sectioned a large mound which had
6 75

<<<Page: 340>>>

Fic. 70.—Late prehistoric mound group, Las Vegas, Chamelicon River.

<<<Page: 341>>>

Fic. 73.—Great causeway and ditch, El Eden, Lake Yojoa.

<<<Page: 342>>>

originally been covered by a thick coating of white plaster. Inside the mound a smaller plaster-covered structure was exposed. Nearby we uncovered the floors of several houses (fig. 68). These house floors were of bright red painted plaster. Fragments of the adobe walls showed that they too had been plastered and painted successively a bright blue, yellow, and red as shown by the different layers. The most interesting find was a ceremonial ball court of typical late Aztec shape (fig. 69). This was walled by vertical rock slabs with smaller flat rocks forming a coping. Near the center of one wall we found a fragment of one of the two stone rings which had formerly been set in the walls. Local tradition regards this place as the ruin of a colonial church, and it is interesting that after four centuries the story still persists that here “ the King ”, 7. e., Olid, was killed. The pottery at Naco is unique so far as known Honduras types are concerned. It consists primarily of a white slipped ware with red and black geometric designs (fig. 74). Peculiar tripod types are most common, and distinctive sherds with molded or incised designs on the interior occur (fig. 74). Spindle whorls and textile-marked pottery are common. These wares are strongly suggestive of relatively late ceramic types in Mexico. To clinch the historic nature of the occupation of Naco, we found several fragments of early European glazed crockery associated in house mounds with native wares. Archeology supports history and linguistics in indicating that at the time of the conquest the vicinity of Naco was inhabited by Nahuatl peoples. In addition to Naco we worked several other sites in the Chamelicon valley. One of these shows a typical late prehistoric type of mound arrangement (fig. 70).
Our most intensive excavations were made on the banks of the Ulua River. Aside from numerous and rather sterile mound groups on the present valley floor the majority of the ancient remains are buried. to considerable depths, being exposed in the cut banks of the river (figs. 78, 79). Near Progreso, at Las Flores Bolsa, we made two large and deep cuts (fig. 78). The 4 meters of human deposit at this site seem to be relatively late and like the majority of downriver sites was rather poor. Burials occurred, usually unaccompanied by artifacts, but one had among other objects a copper fish hook. This was the only metal artifact recovered in all our excavations. We removed the broken pottery and other cultural materials by 30-centimeter layers and the exact changes in ceramic styles are now being worked out in the laboratory. Near Santa Rita, on Farm 17, we made even larger stratigraphic excavations in a site rich in the finest types of Ulua polychrome pottery. This site is some 35 kilometers

<<<Page: 343>>>

Fic. 74.—Potsherds, spindle whorls, and other artifacts from Naco. Probably Nahuatl. (Scale, 1 inch.)
Fic. 75.—Group of pots from one grave at La Ceiba, Lake Yojoa. Polychrome period.
Fic. 76.—Sherds and figurines from lower level at Playa de los Muertos. Oldest known horizon in Honduras.

<<<Page: 344>>>

up the Ulua from Las Flores Bolsa and is located on the Comayagua branch. Being nearer the centers of Mayan influence, it was by far the richer of the two. The burials, like those at Las Flores, were usually unaccompanied by whole vessels but beautiful broken pottery occurred in the thick refuse. Two major types occur, straight-walled vases with Mayoid designs, and bowls and large two-handled pots with bold animal and geometric designs. The latter types occur in the interior of Honduras in the heart of the old Lenca territory. (See Strong, “ Explorations and Field-Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1933, p. 46, fig. 54.) Graceful Mayoid designs, such as paired “dancers”’ and tall processional figures, occur only in the lower levels and become more conventional and heavier in the upper strata. The best bold geometric ware also occurs in the lower levels but this ware is abundant throughout. A relatively early introduction of intrusive Mayoid styles among an alien Ulua population having a dominant geometric style of its own seems indicated. The exact nature of these important changes, however, remains to be worked out in the laboratory. Exact analysis of such masses of broken pottery from definite layers is a slow and difficult task, but one that 1s essential in establishing any objective prehistoric chronology.
At Lake Yojoa we conducted excavations to obtain a scientific record for the ancient cemeteries that are now being rapidly looted by commercial excavators. Lake Yojoa, halfway between the low banana lands of the north coast and the mountain capital of Tegucigalpa, is a beautiful place. Set amidst high pine-covered mountains, the lake itself is surrounded by a luxuriant tropical forest with its margins supporting masses of water lilies and hyacinths (fig. 71). Back from the shore are numerous low burial mounds containing polychrome pots of various types (fig. 75). Time and the humous character of the soil have destroyed all but traces of skeletal parts (fig. 77). Here again, Mayoid and Chorotegan (Lencan) type vessels occur in the same graves (figs. 75, 77). There are also numerous stylistic connections with Ulua polychrome wares. Near Jaral, the uncomfortable little native town where one lodges as best one may, we discovered a great causeway and an irrigation ditch which extends through dense tick-infested bush for over 5 kilometers, from the sources of Rio Blanco down to the lake shore (fig. 73). Nearby is the great mound group of Los Naranjos. Here are located, in addition to huge mounds of earth and stone, a number of interesting stone statues (fig. 72). These have, in my opinion, been wrongly identified as of Mayan origin. Stylistically, they seem to be more closely connected with southern centers in Nicaragua. Our excavations on the

<<<Page: 345>>>

“TOALY BNI) ‘soJON TY ‘OAR RN) ‘es ‘(SZ ‘sy das) eoloX oye]
SO] op eARTg 18 ND payNesys daaq—O6Z ‘dy sey ‘potted sworysAjod jo sjering— eZ “DIY ‘eqia) BT Je oAeIs pousdo Aljenseq—ZZ “d1Y
: fy

<<<Page: 346>>>

borders of Los Naranjos also revealed house floors of the polychrome period. Beneath a meter and a half of polychrome deposit occurs a barren clay and gravel stratum. Beneath this is another meter of mixed soil containing monochrome sherds and crude solid figurines. Our excavations thus revealed two definite prehistoric periods at Lake Yojoa as well as significant associations between the various polychrome wares. However, the work at these important sites has only been begun.
Another definite case of stratification was encountered at the Playa de los Muertos (the Beaches of the Dead) on the Ulua River. Gordon in 1897 reports no stratification from this place, although his men obtained many complete pots which must have come from the earliest period burials here. However, in 1929, Mrs. Dorothy Hughes Popenoe excavated at this site a number of deep graves, all of which contained distinctive monochrome or bichrome pottery and figurines. Polychrome pottery, abundant at nearby exposures, was entirely lacking in these graves. Mrs. Popenoe thus isolated the old Playa de los Muertos culture but could not correlate it with the Mayoid polychrome horizon. When we visited this site the terrific flood of 1935 had removed a large section of the river bank where previous excavators had worked. Only a small section of hard pan containing Playa de los Muertos type sherds (fig. 76) remained. Running a deep trench from the top of the high bank down onto this playa (fig. 79) we were fortunate enough to encounter polychrome sherds and two burials of this period in the top 2 meters. Below this was a sterile yellow clay layer of from 1 to 2 meters in thickness and under this, extending down to a total depth of 6 meters, a thick deposit of Playa de los Muertos culture refuse material. The Playa de los Muertos culture can thus be demonstrated as considerably earlier than the Mayoid polychrome remains of the upper and later horizons. Our _ stratigraphic excavations in northwestern Honduras, therefore, give a section running from the historic occupation at Naco, through the various polychrome horizons on the Ulua and at Lake Yojoa, and extending down to the Playa de los Muertos culture which preceded the developed Maya period in the area. Certain wider correlations as well as more detailed comparisons, however, must await analysis of the materials recovered.

<<<Page: 347>>>

MEL DEShUDIES @E THE IROQUOIS IN NEW YORK STAcE AND IN ONDARIO, CANADA:
By Je N. Ba Lee War Ethnologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
In continuation of his field studies concerning the League of the Iroquois, the writer visited, during the summer of 1936, the several Iroquois reservations in the Province of Ontario, Canada, and one in the State of New York, the Tuscarora.
The results of the war of the American Revolution disrupted the Structure of the League to its very foundations; the old Federal organization had been broken and the glory of the once famous League was gone forever. The Iroquois leaders learned that at the peace treaty between Great Britain and the American Colonies the Commissioners of the British Crown failed to make any plea in behalf of their former Indian allies, leaving them to make the best terms possible with the embittered victorious American Colonies. This cruel act of the British authorities, however, was at first wholly misinterpreted by the Iroquois leaders, who believed that this treatment by their former ally indicated that they were an independent people. But, at the Treaty of Fort Stanwix of October 22, 1784, the Commissioners of the American Congress bluntly informed the Iroquois spokesmen that they were a conquered people and that as such they must cede as reparations a vast tract of their lands. It was then that the Iroquois realized that their leaders had committed a disastrous mistake in persuading them to side with Great Britain.
This great disappointment fomented bitter internal strife among the Iroquois to determine the persons to blame for their plight. Hence it is pertinent to say here that no Federal Chief was present at the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, and that none signed this epochal document ; it bears the names of Chief Warriors only. This is also true of the Treaty of Fort Harmer concluded 5 years later in 1789. These adverse circumstances induced a devastating loss of the living traditional knowledge of the organic basic principles, ordinances, and distinctive teaching of the League founded by Deganawida.
Out of this tribal turmoil there emerged about the year 1800 a movement fostered and led chiefly by a Federal Chief named Handsome Lake to disparage and to supplant the earlier discipline of the Iroquois League. Handsome Lake claimed that his teaching was revealed to him by four angels, who appeared to him for several

<<<Page: 348>>>

years at the ripening of strawberries. This teaching is announced in four or five talks, the contents of which vary according to the fancy or the ability of the speaker to preach. On the whole the teachings otf Handsome Lake and his followers are not native [roquois in origin, and in no sense do they constitute a code, as some writers have called them; nor should they be regarded as forming a“ religion”, for they are at best merely “ religious.” The founders of the League of the lroquois did not aim to establish a religion, but rather a system of government, and so it is an erroneous procedure to contrast or to compare its principles with those of the Handsome Lake * revelation.”
In his field researches the writer found that because of the reasons already detailed herein, at least 70 percent of the Iroquois people are acting under the erroneous impression that the Handsome Lake teachings are merely an extension of the precepts and ordinances of the League of the Lroquois.
The writer obtained a fine version of the Handsome Lake teachings in the Mohawk language, consisting of nearly 6,000 native terms, as spoken by the late Federal Chief George Buck in 1884, recorded by the late Chief Seth Newhouse, a perfect master of the Mohawk language. ‘The writer has also an Onondaga and a Cayuga version of this teaching.
A serious study of these versions convinces the writer that the substance of the portions of them which are distinctive is based unequivocally on the doctrines and instructions inculcated by the Jesuit and other missionaries during the late decades of the seventeenth century, and that, of course, they do not come from any so-called ‘revelation by angels to Handsome Lake. Briefly, they are suffused with the ideas of hell, sin, purgatory, confession, repentance, race suicide (abortion), the Tormentor (devil), punishment for practicing witchcraft or sorcery, the use of melted lead in hell for the punishment of the wicked, ete. Of course, these ideas were alien to the thinking and observance of the pre-missionary Iroquois. To realize this fact it is only needful to consult the creation myths of the Iroquois, where a wholly different set of ideas and concepts is found (consult Onondaga, Seneca, and Mohawk versions in the 21st Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and a fuller Onondaga version in the 43rd Annual Report of this Bureau).
The writer also recorded several Onondaga texts detailing several interesting rites. One is for the adoption of a mother in the place of one deceased (a Tutelo custom), and another text relates the rites observed in the temporary sequestration of the credentials of Vanership (i. e., of a Federal Chiefship), used in the event of the critical

<<<Page: 349>>>

Fic. 80.—Mrs. Vanevery and her son, John, tilling Indian tobacco on the Iro-
quois Grand River Grant for ceremonial purposes.

<<<Page: 350>>>

illness of such an officer, or in the event of the murder or sudden death of such an officer. The law of the League governing in such case directs that the credentials of office must not be permitted to be buried with the corpse. In ancient times deer antlers served as such credentials, but later wampum strings replaced these.
From John Vanevery and his courteous mother the writer obtained a pound of cured native tobacco (Lobelia inflata). Attendance at ceremonial rites requires offerings of this tobacco, of which Mr. Vanevery and his mother are the qualified raisers. Figure 80 shows
I*tg. 8t.—Mrs. Hill, a Tuscarora woman, displaying beadwork at Niagara Falls.
mother and son standing among their maturing tobacco plants in their garden overlooking the Grand River.
The few women beadwork makers of the Tuscarora and other Iroquois reservations in New York State and Canada, usually less than a dozen persons, have from the very earliest times enjoyed the privilege of displaying their wares for sale on the waterfront at Niagara Falls, N. Y., and later in the State Park there. They have, however, been notified that no others can have this privilege when these die or when they may give up this occupation. In figure 81 is shown the youngest of these thrifty saleswomen.

<<<Page: 351>>>

By JULIAN H. STEWARD
Associate Anthropologist, Bureau of American Ethnology
One of the largest blanks on the ethnographical map of North America has been an area of more than 125,000 square miles which lies partly in the vast and barren lava plains of southern Idaho, partly in the high and arid Great Basin of western Utah, Nevada, and eastern California. Formerly it was known only that this country was very sparsely populated by Shoshonean-speaking tribes who, judging by descriptions furnished by early explorers and trappers, were notable chiefly for their impoverished and unorganized condition. Few ethnologists had passed beyond the fringes of this territory; practically none had visited the Shoshoni, one of the most widely spread groups in the United States, who occupy the central and largest portion of it. Lack of knowledge of these simple but intensely interesting people had presented serious obstacles to an understanding of native American cultures.
To establish the identity and location of the principal Shoshoni groups and bands, to record the salient features of their culture, and above all to discover what effect life in this formidable environment would have upon human society, the writer supplemented a survey of Nevada Shoshoni made during the previous year with 4 months among the Shoshoni of southern Idaho, northern Utah, and part of eastern Nevada.
During 6 weeks in southern Idaho, it was found that Shoshoni and Bannock (the latter are really Northern Paiute or Mono-Paviotso and must have originated in eastern Oregon), who had been gathered from far and wide to the Fort Hall Indian Reservation, came from aboriginal groups that were very dissimilar. Shoshoni from the deserts of western Idaho and adjoining parts of Utah and Nevada told of pre-Caucasian days when their people had been barely able to support themselves. Although they had eaten every kind of food the country afforded, starvation had been frequent and even cannibalism by no means unknown. From spring until fall, small family groups continuously traversed the country, going from one locality to another as the different foods became available. In the spring they found roots and greens on the prairies, during the summer they took salmon from the Snake River, and in the fall they gathered pine nuts in the moun-

<<<Page: 352>>>

"SIOARIM JONSLY UPILIOULY JATIEU dL ‘RIUJOJI[ED JO SOUILU PlOS oy} 0} Surdsiny ssdulu-Aj410 | } Sasol I J } A
SuOWe SUIpUeIs}NO IIB IUOYSOYS AayeA Yeaq—€g “oly oy} Mes ‘pllys B se ‘oyM ‘URUT TMOYsOYS epeAdIN-—zQ “YLT

<<<Page: 353>>>

Fic. 84.—Shoshoni and Bannock Sun Dancers at Fort Hall, Idaho. While hopping forward and backward, they gaze at the buffalo head on the center pole to cure themselves or others of serious ills.
Re ag
Fic. 85.—Fort Hall Sun Dance “ priests” are old men, but they are no less stoical than the youths in enduring 3 days and nights of July heat without food or water. Each blows an eagle wing bone whistle while he dances.

<<<Page: 354>>>

go SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
tains of northwestern Utah. Meanwhile, they took every opportunity to procure deer, mountain sheep, and other large game. Nor were they averse to woodchucks, gophers, and all manner of smaller creatures when hunger was acute. Always, however, seeds were the most important food, and these were gathered in very efficient and wellmade baskets. Some baskets served for gathering and transporting seeds; others, like huge, shallow trays, were for tossing and winnowing the grain from the chaff. Indeed, although they possessed pots for boiling, they even managed to roast seeds in baskets by shaking them with hot coals.
Winter found the sparse population scattered along the streams or in the mountains in small villages of conical pole lodges or even in caves. For several months they lived largely on dried salmon, cached pine nuts and other seeds, parched crickets, and such odds and ends as they had been able to store. Always, however, spring found them thin and hungry and, if the harvest had been poor, many failed to survive the winter.
Social and political groups among these Shoshoni were loosely developed. The winter villages had informal head men; there were no true bands whatever.
Shoshoni from eastern Idaho and Wyoming, excepting the Lemhi or Mountain Sheep Eaters of the rugged mountains bordering the Salmon River, had lived very differently in pre-Caucasian days. In contrast to the lowly “foot Indians” of the west, these Shoshon1 (often known as Snake) and Bannock had many horses even when Lewis and Clark passed through in 1805. The mobility and increased economic efficiency which horse travel made possible produced large, strongly organized bands which moved as units under the leadership of chiefs. They invaded buffalo territory in Wyoming and brought back substantial supplies of dried meat for the winter. They warred with tribes to the east and accorded social distinction to their men who procured war honors through heroic deeds. And, through contact with Plains tribes, they changed many of their former customs. Skincovered tipis replaced brush and grass lodges, the horse travois improved transportation, skin clothing was substituted for woven bark clothing, buckskin bags and the parflesh were used instead of woven sage bark bags, and warfare brought the manufacture of spears, shields, clubs, and other paraphernalia.
Continued contact between the Idaho and Wyoming Shoshoni brought more and more Plains customs to the former, and about a third of a century ago the Fort Hall Indians adopted the Sun Dance which is now an annual event. For three days and nights, during the

<<<Page: 355>>>

SMITHSONIAN EXPLORATIONS, 1936 gl
} a . hy ra Fig. 86.—Shoshoni women thresh wild sand grass by beating it with sticks,
This seed, which grows in Nevada's arid hills, was an important native food.
oe ai ck eh EE o£ Bae
Fic. 87.—The tiny seed of the sand grass is expertly separated from the chaff by shaking and tossing it in a finely woven, traylike winnowing basket.

<<<Page: 356>>>

g2 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
intense July heat, some 50 or 60 men dance without food or water, hoping to cure themselves or others of such lingering ailments as rheumatism or tuberculosis, or to obtain a vision giving supernatural power to doctor.
Leaving Fort Hall, the writer next visited Washakie, Utah. The small colony here consists of Shoshoni who left their own bands and groups many years ago to join the Mormon church, under whose protection they still live. Some of the Washakie Indians, who had come originally from the deserts lying northwest of Great Salt Lake, furnished data for maps of native villages and sources of food and described a former culture and society very similar to that found in western Idaho. A bit of good fortune was the finding of an old man who during his youth had lived in a cave on Promontory Point which the writer excavated several years ago. Other Washakie Shoshoni had come from Bear River and Cache Valley and were descended from survivors of the massacre of 1863. These Indians told of native days when their people, like the Idaho Shoshoni, had possessed horses and traveled in bands.
Finally, 2 weeks were spent among the most interesting of all desert dwellers, the little-known Gosiute, who now reside on reservations at Skull Valley and Deep Creek, Utah. Previous uncertainty as to the linguistic affiliation of the Gosiute was resolved: they are definitely Shoshoni, and their language differs very little from that of their neighbors in Nevada. Culturally, too, they resemble the Shoshoni, but their occupation of a few small oases in the huge intermontane semideserts and Great Salt Desert that extend forbiddingly from Skull Valley to eastern Nevada had so isolated them from cultural contacts that they are probably distinguished by having had the most impoverished culture of any American Indians.
The Gosiute’s struggle to survive in the midst of scant natural resources was aided by few material devices. The scarcity of large game and the meagerness of wild seeds forced them to subsist to an extraordinary degree upon mice, gophers, crickets, ants, lizards, and other things which are ordinarily disdained by persons in regions of natural plenty. For shelter against intense winter cold, they built only brush windbreaks or lived in caves. They had few utensils and tools, though baskets, pots, and bows and arrows were part of the equipment of every family. Large game was so difficult to procure that the man who was able to provide himself with a shirt, leggings or even breechclout, or his wife with a dress was fortunate indeed. Often people went virtually nude or, if the weather was cold, wrapped themselves in a cape woven of strips of rabbit fur.

<<<Page: 357>>>

3y HERBERT W. KRIEGER
Curator, Division of Ethnology, U. S. National Museum
Who were the Lucayans—those “ simple, honest and exceedingly liberal” native Americans who on October 12, 1492, greeted Columbus at Guanahani (now San Salvador or Watling), the most eastern of the Bahama Islands? A Smithsonian expedition under the leadership of the writer spent 35 months from October 1936 to February 1937 seeking an answer to this question through an archeological reconnoissance of the archipelago and in excavating prehistoric village sites on five of the larger islands.
The Bahama archipelago includes 15 larger islands and several hundred islets or cays on the eastern edge of the Great and Little Bahama Banks, extensive ocean shallows between southeastern Florida and eastern Cuba. The small islets of the Bimini group which rise from the ocean floor only 50 miles due east of Miami Beach constitute an exception. Between Florida and the coralline Bahama Islands lies the mighty Gulf Stream barrier, its blackish blue waters flowing steadily northward. To determine just how much of a deterrent this barrier stream may have been to the prehistoric Indians of the Bahama Islands who had no means of transportation other than a dugout, it was necessary that the expedition collect archeological material from sites within the Bahamas, where, aside from sporadic finds in caves, there had been no previous systematic archeological work done. No aboriginal pottery had heretofore been made available for comparative archeological studies of the two contiguous areas.
The Bahama Islands have recently become well and favorably known to many Americans who have enjoyed a winter holiday on their sunny shores. The colonial capital, Nassau, on the island of New Providence, is linked with American history through the exploits of the Boston loyalist, Maj. Archibald Taylor, and the South Carolinian, Col. Andrew Deveaux, who assisted in its defense against a Spanish attack in 1783; also through Blennerhassett, the co-conspirator of Aaron Burr, who fleeing from the United States became Attorney General of the Bahamas; and through Captain Porter, better known as a Civil War admiral, who joined Bahaman government forces in effecting the final overthrow of West Indian pirates. From the time when fleeing loyalist tories and their slaves sailed for Abaco 2 days

<<<Page: 358>>>

Fic. 88.—Entering Nassau harbor. Home from a cruise, with the mail, a deck
load of sheep, and an archeologist aboard.
se at we | TL ae
re se bongs aes ‘“ sae <i os Pe : i manag : ee _— <7 den Pr hi ote. ame 4 on . eat eS ‘ese
Fic. 89.—A typical Bahaman village, Rock Sound, Eleuthera. The white buildings are of frame construction, except the church, which is of plastered coral blocks.
Fic. 90.—Drying sisal fiber. The fiber must first be separated from the leaf by soaking in brackish water. It is then pounded over rocks to remove all vegetable debris. The sisal industry is reviving in the Out Islands.

<<<Page: 359>>>

Fic. 91.—A mass of consolidated limestone representing an old beach deposit on top of an elevated coral bank, Long Island.
Fic. 92.—One of the mouths of the Hamilton caves, Long Island. The cave ? g
opens on the side of an elevated ridge, the undercut revealing an old ocean shore line.
Fic. 93.—A garden wall near Mortimer’s, Long Island. Similar stone fences are commonplace in the Out Islands. There is no soil into which a post might be driven and there are no trees large enough for making rails.

<<<Page: 360>>>

before the British evacuated Boston, to the days of the Civil War when Charleston refugees and blockade runners made the Bahama Islanders prosperous, and later when the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution made the rum runner wealthy—the Bahama Islands have been outposts of American history.
New Providence, only 7 miles wide and 20 miles long, is one of the smaller islands of the group, and as on the so-called Out Islands there is little or no soil covering the limestone rock. The removal of cave deposits consisting of bat guano and a reddish compact clay for use as fertilizer has been instrumental in destroying much archeological data in the form of pottery and skeletal material.
After excavating the deposits remaining in three of the larger caves of New Providence Island, a reconnoissance was undertaken of the Island of Eleuthera. This pleasant island lies a few hours sail to the northeast through shallow protected waters. It is approximately go miles long, but only a few miles wide. In Eleuthera as elsewhere in the Out Islands the peculiar and striking effects of erosion may be observed. The rock is so worn as to leave vertical cylindrical masses and sharp jagged projecting points. The Out Islanders have not developed roads other than central axial highways for each island. The larger caves fortunately are never more than a few miles from the central highway. Small irregularly eroded pits on the elevated ridges vary from 3 to 20 feet in depth. These pits have soil covering the bottom and afford excellent plots for planting bananas. Natives call them “ banana holes.” With the aid of local informants it was sometimes possible to collect Lucayan skeletal material from banana holes. From one of them, on Long Island, a small bundle of hardwood arrowheads was extracted. On the floor was a heap of crab claws and shells, also a deep hearth deposit of ash and charcoal.
The larger caves of the islands are found in the consolidated limestone strata of the eroded ridges and indicate the existence of an old ocean shore line and a geologically recent elevation of the islands. A careful search of the larger caves of Eleuthera, Cat Island, San Salvador, and Inagua revealed the presence of many Lucayan objects of pottery, wood, shell, and stone.
Returning to Nassau a hurried journey was undertaken to Andros, an island named after a colonial governor of Massachusetts and Virginia. Andros is not only the largest of the Bahamas but the largest coral island in the world, being over go miles long and 50 miles wide. Its eastern shore is a low ridge. West of the ridge a large forest of pines covers much of the island. Emerging on the west side of Andros Island, one sees spread out before him as far as the eye can reach a

<<<Page: 361>>>

Fic. 94.—Ruins of the home constructed by Major Archibald Taylor of Boston shortly after the Revolutionary War, Clarence Town, Long Island. The walls are of coral rock and are more than to feet in thickness.
: Bye » es A
Fic. 95.—Herbert Taylor, the great grandson of Major Archibald Taylor, the Boston loyalist. Clarence Town, Long Island.
Fic. 966.—The humble home of the Lopez’ on a wind swept ridge at Deadman’s Key, Long Island.

<<<Page: 362>>>

low, swampy country covered with small mangroves merging almost imperceptibly into the Grand Bahama Bank, locally known as “ the mud ”’, one of the greatest sponging fields in the world. Andros alone among the Bahama Islands has fresh-water creeks and lakes.
The pottery recovered by the expedition from a Lucayan site at the Hamilton caves in the Deadman’s Key district of Long Island appears to be typical of finds made elsewhere. Hand-molded figurine heads which occur as handles joined to the earthenware bowls of the island Arawak were not seen there but were noted on the thin-walled red ware pottery recovered from the Salt Pond Hill cave, Inagua. The prevalent decorative design on the thick-walled shell-tempered Hamilton cave pottery consists of incised recurved volutes, nucleated circles, and incised lines broken by isolated punctations. This design is very much like those incised on the backs of their “* duhos ”, handcarved seats of madeira wood. The so-called “ celt’’, really a hatchet or ax blade detached from its handle, is of widespread occurrence throughout the West Indies. Many such “ celts” of polished greenstone originating in Haiti were among objects recovered at several of the worked sites. No “celt” of carved shell or of native limestone was recovered. The native Negro population is very superstitious regarding “ celts ” and insists that they fall from the sky. Emerging from the soil or the ocean floor after a period of seven years, the ‘thunderbolt ” is very effective, they say, in warding off danger during a hurricane.
Similar seats of carved wood, “ celts ”’, thick-walled, incised pottery, even wooden handles for the almond-shaped stone “ celt ”? have been discovered by Smithsonian archeologists in southern Florida. Such cultural borrowing from the Bahamas substantiates a Lucayan statement to Columbus that Florida Indians actually came to the Bahama Islands to hunt pigeons which are still found there in great numbers. Despite such cultural infection consequent on limited intercourse between Indians of Florida and the Bahamas, the racial and cultural connections of the Lucayans are with the island Arawak of eastern Cuba and northern Hispaniola.
A solution of the ethnic position of the Ciboney in the Bahamas depends on the final archeological identification of this somewhat mysterious people in Cuba and in Hispaniola. Apparently subservient to the Arawak, they dwelt in coastal fishing villages in Cuba. Their culture was crude and they made no pottery. It has been suggested that they were merely country Arawak. Recent Smithsonian expeditions have discovered their shell middens, stone tools, and ossuaries at Ile a Vache on the Haitian and at Samana on the Dominical littoral. Similar deposits were found by the writer in the Bahamas on Berry Islands and on Andros. The cultural relationship of the coastal tribes of Florida to the Ciboney remains undetermined.

<<<Page: 363>>>

SVE SONIAN INSTITURION EXHIBIT Al-THE, TEXAS CENGENNTAL EXPOSITION, DALLAS, TEXAS By CARL W. MITMAN Head Curator, Department of Arts and Industries, U. S. National Museum
As the representative of the Smithsonian Institution, under the title of contact officer, the writer has, since 1932, devoted a considerable portion of his time both in Washington and in the field to the design, preparation, installation, and maintenance of Smithsonian exhibits at the major expositions, including the Century of Progress Exposition,
Fic. 97—Norman H. Boss getting fossil bones of Camarasaurus out of their rock matrix, the feature of the Smithsonian exhibit at the Texas Centennial Exposition, Dallas, Tex.
Chicago, Ill.; the California Pacific International Exposition, San Diego, Calif. exhibit at this latter exposition in 1936 proved to be of greater popular
>and the Texas Centennial Exposition, Dallas, Tex. The
appeal and interest than any of the Institution’s recent efforts in this specialized field and merits a brief description here.
In a rectangular bay in one end of the Federal Building there was literally transplanted part of the vertebrate paleontology laboratory of the United States National Museum. Here daily during the course of the exposition, Norman H. Boss, chief preparator of the Division of Vertebrate Paleontology, and an assistant, Gilbert Stucker, of Chicago, carried on the intricate and varied tasks involved in working up in relief parts of the Jurassic dinosaur Camarasaurus (fig. 97).

<<<Page: 364>>>

Five large masses of plaster-bandaged fossil in the rock were shipped to Dallas and constituted the working material during the exposition.
On the back wall there was mounted a full-size line drawing of Camarasaurus, and superposed on the drawing was the original skull and the first five vertebrae which had been prepared in the National Museum laboratory prior to the exposition. These original parts together with those gradually exposed by the preparators and the fullsize profile drawing gave the visitor a clear idea of the complicated nature of the preparatory work in this scientific field.
a ‘ +
oe, » es en
wit)* bt as t Pena Mx nhc al
Te. ‘
rey r
" { ene ew *
tr — £ > et
Fic. 98.—Diorama of Jurassic period shown in the Smithsonian exhibit at the Texas Centennial Exposition. Stegasaurus at left; Camarasaurus in center; Ceratosaurus at right.
Flanking the laboratory area there were exhibited two large oil paintings: one, by Garnet W. Jex, portrayed reptilian life in the Permian Age of Texas; the other, by Bruce Horsfall, visualized Camarasaurus as he was supposed to have appeared in the flesh and in the environment of his time, namely, the Jurassic Age. In addition, a well-executed diorama visualized all known life of the Jurassic Age (fig. 98), giving the visitor an understanding of the reptilian associates of Camarasaurus in Jurassic times and vividly indicating the swampy, moist character of the land area of that distant time.

<<<Page: 365>>>

we V4 Fee aint
ty ;
rn) vy : i
Ae me : ee, |e ee ss > o-.. \ -
aoe ae :

<<<Page: 366>>>

y reid,
3 " a;
ea ne ha ay iva

<<<Page: 367>>>



<<<Page: 368>>>



<<<Page: 369>>>



<<<Page: 370>>>

Sets thts ee
Pyege Mrs onan
sitncady Sah aA
: Mobs Witte “ date hes me
face ec Paras " ate estate ; ti bi *
Nh = ae ao : Sak S at i,
eect
—— Te
Se i
Pte ts
7 mene =
dye i
neeeets matt tatiat
Tey be! Pet oat
hy 1) eat “ 1 weet scisaaette i pei ne hovlybiey?
gH Nipee Ve be oFee bey
xi hemes Sami — a
aa ii
4 nay) sa oe ied ue
SRY eeaayacorite wees i
Reset eateerentey whetind Gals crane SER ema Aleti alee
rye bt fen slied basbsk ce
upetrtots teeere beg iuneos abe ieee ahebet > Feb thbeGasine ene
ney Biptae Mh a
ano Cie
cit 14
a ninistaceatint obs Nab
se pened ant iweemeet
AA AE Bg mes 51.4 WAM one:
I J . | Hl I
3 9088 see 8308
hatud of rent sate few hee
Danananensheteg
¢ *tebekp ay GHB ei apatite y
erent eH eka
Ut vet» fie death ty boy beh sesh atiten oes oh Bay a4) oft sites eile
ego eh tae 6.55) oAedl eee re ae ++ sbyry)y aC AYAb eh ahr os hot eA bay
alle gob bo be ats
shehidebed tog decinaeee i Pre eae
SOND et | heuebedt Be ry
CH iy
ie hd athe ti
i BBO beh
2H Rh of R/O Mh ond: i
Vitek siti te
Catan
au setae eye be >)
oe here
eat LS dpb
Py Cu
Raass ae ent At EG t “ rents rd “a ” dads md
" buy cidiey woes vy edeabause Mba S40 AL % ue
Creat it
Ay RUE UP e Heel Mee check
4 vier sat 4
anes
eee 6s
ian hal
recebed Hadphet Seas sei i wists
Sehede Ned edeialtetis
HOG HE 6h 08 of
§ me naa 8K a a athena pet
ei hain: + ny POMEL PO ene Wee, peti #4 gare stadt y “perercade " Senha * i):
eh Fa Weta ned Y
de fehoyed Whey eaed Abed ev spagegne: CRED: Ge eey te
04 D4 44h Cotas dry!
Nidan tuadp Mae Mj
eye bed Hee ye siento om i; pesauasieas senee J
Sort
rere (fied bet Cee
‘y Pe Njoyeited ‘ wenn t ditt '
ry Seth Oeste Yt mau the
‘ eqs EC -Ai002y HAVO -G-e 4
iy "
ved) ds Gres aes cde Gobaaranetgied) WHOSE BEE Geqeged Asien eared ie Ueacdeoroen Wy rst ery ‘ rier ‘sie we Mdy bedchek eoeas4 ats bud * Ris ate ical ay
(eat “Wet
eit On Wssueaty " Sheth hit y= (ieds\t ob
Coed Det tay

<<<Page: 371>>>

Oe ora ee a ee Ole eer mee) JE oe sal Tare Oe Oe. eee: we a8 em ofa at ah oe Oe rr Cae Ls Atk D ir cet at RE Par he we Le he ra i me Le ie # . raed te as ac ; sa
: aa ant
ah, Pa, r al, st ae it. i 7 a 2 A oe rig ‘it by {at ae al int po de a J “2 “i? race a. a ro eel eu ath af a m al ar ae te % a it a rae fi he |
* i ‘ee Ce a a
iL é ig yy, Se “7 mor ra a ¢ gf er o ec OU eee ae ie ‘t ace a :
ra ant Gar aur Mel cy Gn Bi ant ae « oe MU Mh act ast if oe oo vt 4 a me 7 OM ? ax Ss. ha : F ‘
Cia Aa WE if ae ig ail ia ei cf L bas ai ;
hig ee
ra a4 att pe ge Ns r oi a ie ‘f cs 4 a dl at ig | ie fai
ae ‘M is
‘ i a Tat t a ph : A pan i. 1S pis % ea a ae i
te pel Pag’ a.
as H at a it j re
» # rd ate e~ rf te
> gr ery . PET ia re C
oa pe cr ag ae aE ye

<<<Page: 372>>>



<<<Page: 373>>>



<<<Page: 374>>>



<<<Page: 375>>>

