<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>

» —— tI ; “y,, " HYDE
—— se
© Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 5>>>

[he fascinating Coral Reef installed in the Sea Life Hall at the National Museum of American History marks the first time it has been possible to keep a large reef comsmunity—including the corals—alive and functioning in isolation from the sea.

<<<Page: 6>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
Smithsonian Institution Press* City of Washington * 1982

<<<Page: 7>>>

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, D.C. 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047-000-00382-2

<<<Page: 8>>>

The Smithsonian Institution
The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.
Ronald Reagan, President of the United States George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Secretary of State Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense William French Smith, Attorney General James G. Watt, Secretary of the Interior John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of Labor Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of Health and Human Services Terrel H. Bell, Secretary of Education Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Andrew L. Lewis, Jr., Secretary of Transportation James B. Edwards, Secretary of Energy

<<<Page: 9>>>

Board of Regents and Secretary * September 30, 1981
REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor
George H. W. Bush, Vice-President of the United States, ex officio Henry M. Jackson, senator from Washington
Barry Goldwater, senator from Arizona
Edwin Jacob (Jake) Garn, senator from Utah
Silvio O. Conte, representative from Massachusetts Norman Y. Mineta, representative from California Edward P. Boland, representative from Massachusetts David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas
J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia
William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey
William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York
Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California
A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia
James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia
Warren E. Burger, Chancellor William A. M. Burden Carlisle H. Humelsine
James E. Webb (Chairman)
S. Dillon Ripley
Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary
Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science
Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary
Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer
John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs Peter G. Powers, General Counsel
James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information

<<<Page: 10>>>

Smithsonian Year * 1981
page
109 120 122 128 £37 149
159 159 164 169 ily/p2 176 A77 181 186 192, 197 198
205 213 214 217 223
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man National Museum of Natural History
National Zoological Park
Office of Biological Conservation
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Radiation Biology Laboratory
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Archives of American Art Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Freer Gallery of Art
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Joseph Henry Papers
National Museum of African Art National Museum of American Art National Museum of American History National Portrait Gallery
Office of American Studies
Office of Folklife Programs
Conservation Analytical Laboratory National Museum Act Programs Office of Exhibits Central
Office of Horticulture
Office of International Activities

<<<Page: 11>>>

224 237 238 240 247
251 201 293 256 256 261 265 267 268 270 272
275 276 279 280
283 284 284 285 292.
302 302
303 305 326 328 33 337 342 359
MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued
Office of Museum Programs
Office of the Registrar
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Division of Performing Arts
International Exchange Service
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Exposition Books
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
Administrative and Support Activities Financial Management Activities Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities
Office of Development
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates Smithsonian National Associate Program Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
PUBLIC INFORMATION Office of Public Affairs
Office of Special Events
Vili

<<<Page: 12>>>

Smithsonian Year * 1981

<<<Page: 13>>>

3 (XXX) ae ex xy KY.
10n,
Bo a8 on & 6 y= pay Ye Ee ey) ey fey, & op ion ine e § co A, op 2 cea €= ee oe oO ES col ~ gS in mn kg oy a5) ~~ oO ro 2
is un
The Museum Support Center, der construct

<<<Page: 14>>>

Conservation in Nature and in Culture
“The future is something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is.” c.s. LEWIS
IN THIS MOMENTOUS YEAR just past, the Smithsonian has seen the fulfillment of an epoch of planning. Shifting uncomfortably like a hen sitting on too many eggs, making a little tuck here and a ruffle of feathers there, trying to encompass an ever-larger nest, the Institution has been stretched and pushed into an imminent state of disarray. For years, like all museums, loathe to give up what may be the remainders of the past, we have had to make do with cramped corridors, ever-shrinking attic spaces, the imminent loss of knowing what it is we have or where we started. Our collections have threatened to lose their utility, sinking under the very weight of accretion. Last year saw the final breakthrough with a generous Congress agreeing to expressed needs of the past many years. The Institution got off to a running start in January 1981; we now are proceeding at a record pace, ahead of schedule, and—dare we admit it—narrowly under budget to create the best, biggest, and most sophisticated and efficient atmospherically controlled storage and retrieval center in the Union.
Can we achieve this monumental task? I believe we can, and the portents so far are with us. The Museum Support Center as it is titled, all 308,566 square feet of it, will be opened in 1983. Say what one may, this “trip” has been necessary. If anywhere, if anyone, the Smithsonian must realize its destiny to build a storage and retrieval center second to none, to preserve the materials, the evidence of all that has made this Nation, rich, proud, careless and

<<<Page: 15>>>

vainglorious, the extraordinary creation that it is. Somewhere within this heap, this litter, lies the truth. For that we must keep this material with care, conserve it as if life would depend on it—for our future and for life itself.
Curiously enough almost no one these days understands what the word “‘conservative’’ means. The so-called media, TV, press, radio, the varieties of slogan-peddling called ““communications,” all readily define “conservative” in political terms: conservative versus liberal. This fashionable interpretation is of course meaningless, conjuring up stereotype visions, Grant Wood’s famous portrait of the middle western farm couple outside their American Gothic farmhouse, opposed to a shaggy, curly-haired professor with hornrims, smoking almost anything.
Conservatives—both men and women—are supposed to wear business clothes, lips pursed tightly in expressions of determination and discipline, and virtually march when they walk or jog to the beat of a predetermined drum. Nonconservatives, dressed loosely, always informally, in mussy clothes smile in a relaxed friendly manner, thinking always of others, moving by impulse perhaps, “making it’ to a distant threnody of wood notes wild.
In museum circles, as in research circles, “conservative” means something entirely different, symbolizing a profession, a whole career. Museum people do not really pursue their careers mostly in attics, although the popular slogan for the Smithsonian, “the Nation’s Attic,” serves up endless images of dusty, dark crannies stuffed with old-fashioned trunks, old clothes, abandoned radio sets and broken toys. “Conservative” in museum terms means conservation, the care of thousands of objects, testaments to man’s creativity, or evidences of creation, the hand of nature or of God, which lie about us always.
In America, museum people and many research people lead lives of quiet desperation, buoyed up only by the inner conviction of the importance of their task. Conservation of at least part of mankind’s creation before it all vanishes on the dust heaps of history becomes a sacred task, the dictates of which marry totally disparate components. On the one hand things must be preserved with exquisite care; on the other, time is of the essence, before what is to be cared for floats away in the inexorable process of decay. In this work the curator always loses something, a little piece here and there, a
4 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 16>>>

fragment of the evidence. But to keep something is better. To conserve even bits and pieces of history is a measure of the curator’s success. Speed connotes haste, and haste connotes waste. But without some measure of speed too much is lost, for America is a continuing example at every level of wastefulness. Humans are consumers more than creators. We all live unconsciously on mounds or heaps of the debris of past lives. All our history or what is left of it can be found in dry privies or charnel heaps. There is an old New England maxim at the very heart of American prudence and thrift which assumes some degree of carelessness:
“Use it up, wear it out make it do, or do without.”
The last two words are the most important if you think about it. They convey our mood. “Conservative,” then, means to conserve. But what an anomaly that is in popular terms. People in business or government tend not to be able to conserve. Business means forward momentum. Dollars imply development. Government moves forward erratically, a juggernaut, propelled by legislation often read through a glass darkly, mirroring forgotten crises. Business and government both proceed on the understanding that growth is the only truth. In such a context “conservative” is a recessive word.
Today the mood of America is “conservative.” I hope it augurs well for what the word really means: ‘to take care, to mind the lessons of history, to keep the testament of the past.” Perhaps America has turned an invisible corner. We who live with museum principles in mind should take heart that at last Americans and nationals of other nations who throng our halls, seem to have a new respect for what we can demonstrate through the conservation of objects, retrieved with speed but with care, before it is too late.
The other side of the term should be of equal or greater value, conservation of nature. Here again museum workers and our associated colleagues in biological research bring home the contrast between endless growth and the preservation of what is left. These past twenty years have demonstrated, even to poll-takers, the existence of a solid block of public concern in favor of conservation of our environment. In political terms what an anomaly this is! Here for once the terms contravene each other. Conservatives, i.e.,
Statement by the Secretary / 5

<<<Page: 17>>>

“business,” in favor of endless growth, are following a spendthrift trail. Liberals, i.e., “fiddlers,” living on organic food, careless of the future or of economics, are becoming ecofreaks—crazy for conservation. But how silly this is. It cannot be the sign of a liberal to be a conservator of the environment, any more than it need be a sign of a conservative to be a disciple of conspicuous waste. Let conservatives and liberals (in the political sense—if indeed the labels are valid any more?) take heart from the fact that conservation is here to stay, a way of life on which our future will be judged. What greater obligation do we have than to be conservators of the things of mankind or of nature? Without the one we become rootless, adrift, undisciplined even, lost amid shifting sands. Without the other we have with certainty lost our future.
One of the advantages of the new Museum Support Center is that we shall for the first time be able to “decompress,” to spread out most everything, to see what we have altogether and in what condition. Whether going to the new center or staying in one of the museums, we will have room to examine everything. Already the Institution is in the throes of a giant inventory, supported now for three years with a special appropriation. In some collections, the inventory is completed, one hundred percent; in others, only partially so. Over all, we are a little more than half-way through. As a result, the numbers of objects are beginning to appear in fact, in contrast to the educated guesswork of the past.
Only now can we begin to form a comprehensive listing of objects or lots of objects in certain collections to be conserved, to be studied for loans or possibly to be disposed of as duplicates, and to make all the future curatorial decisions that will have to be made in the next quarter century. In the end, we will not only know what we have for the first time in every department, but we will have a rational idea of what to do with it. I believe that we will save money in the long run by being able to make valid and wholly merited decisions on what to keep once we are totally sure of what we have. This of course excludes the obviously priceless or unique objects. These we know already, and most of them are well cared for and well documented. But on the fringes of all collections there are hard decisions to be made about objects that surface, come to a curator’s attention, because they had just been put away a while back for a decision later on.
6 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 18>>>

This next generation, in time, will be a voyage of discovery for our own curators, rediscovering things so put aside. It will be an enormous job and a very heavy responsibility for working curators to dig in and excavate in the collections themselves. We welcome it as a test of the staff and their aptitude in the work.
If the future catches up with us all too speedily, we can certainly realize that life admits of no delays. These are parlous days for building anything. We in the Smithsonian have been lucky in that we have created buildings with minimal overruns, sometimes indeed under budget. But inflation is all around us. It is a cancer that has been creeping up on us “on little cat feet’ since the 1890s, according to an elderly cousin of mine. But it is here, and we can only hope that these years will finally see a realization of what Hemingway called “the first panacea for a mismanaged country.” That relentless liberal said, “The first panacea for a mismanaged nation is inflation of the currency; the second is war. Both bring a temporary prosperity; both bring a permanent ruin.” He should have lived on to see the complex of conflicting pressures we live under today.
These are hard years in which to summon the resolve to build anything. And yet the Smithsonian has an extraordinary opportunity to perform a signal service for the nation and it is our hope that we can do so, with imagination and understanding for the future. Another realm of space, another project to build may seem uncalled for in these uncertain days, but we have ample reasons to do so. On the one hand our government is committed to strengthening the peace through marshaling the power and military strength to maintain it. On the other hand we conceive a need to strengthen understanding with the vast arc of nations stretching from the Atlantic shores of Africa across Eurasia, as the geographers term it, “the eastern Mediterranean,” and on to the shores of the Pacific. Here live two-thirds of the world’s population, too few nations among which are really understood by Americans. In the city of Washington there are more than eighty embassies whose occupants represent the majority of peoples of the world. Yet they have no real means for representing their cultural history and traditions to Americans. We lack a theater, a window from which to demonstrate their long and fundamental role in our own history. Whether because of the roots of intellectual development for the
Statement by the Secretary / 7

<<<Page: 19>>>

ee FRRSIRI A wa rk wa Ice lek a
Carre ‘ry f ae meet
saree perese peeese ee
ge |
uw 4 i? Qe = gt

<<<Page: 20>>>

The Quadrangle project, pictured here in a plan showing Independence Avenue (at bottom, foreground) and the Smithsonian Castle (at top, background), addresses the need to strengthen our nation’s understanding of the vast arc of nations stretching from Africa across Eurasia and on to the shores of the Pacific. The Quadrangle space, the old South Yard of the Smithsonian, has had a multitude of uses over the years. In the 1880s, bison (facing page, at top) and other live animals were kept (for study by Smithsonian taxidermists) in pens on the south side of the Castle—here the beginnings of our National Zoo! In the center (facing page) is a view from Independence Avenue in late 1975, just before the area was cleared, showing various buildings behind the Castle: the Victorian carriage house to the left, the first Smithsonian observatory buildings dating from the 1890s towards the right, and the World War I “quonset” hut originally erected by the U.S. Army Air Service for development of World War I aircraft and later used by the National Air Museum (now NASM) to display historic aircraft. At bottom (facing page) is a contemporary view of the Castle showing the Freer Gallery of Art to the left, the Arts and Industries Building to the right, and the Castle itself at center—with the existing parking lot and adjacent Victorian Garden (first developed in 1976).

<<<Page: 21>>>

Western world in mathematics, medicine and astronomy in the Arab tradition, whether in religion, law and philosophy in Judaism and the roots of Christianity, whether in philosophy and invention and technology in Asia and Africa, Americans are still unaccustomed to understanding the close cultural links between themselves and the worlds of Africa and Asia. Only with such understanding can peace come through mutual respect coupled with the urgency of the need for environmental survival, the new conservatism of which I have written.
The speed at which we live, the triumphs of invention have done nothing to assuage our need for mutual understanding on which peace must depend. Speed of communication seems to exacerbate tension. Instant television replays of events abroad, usually colorful events such as riots or warfare, excite us into an eventual state of satiety. We spend most of our lives today receiving short-range signals of despair, starvation, disease, war—apocalyptic visions circulate through the air, in the name of keeping up with the news. More often than not, these are the only signals emanating from Africa or Asia which reach the public mind.
Nor does transportation and its miracles assist us in the search for understanding. Jet-assisted tour groups take the place of time for contemplation or for reading history or biography. “I’ve done southern Asia” or “I’ve been to Africa” is the answer as one comes back exhausted from a ten-day all-packaged tour, bulging shopping bags and kaleidoscopic impressions replacing reflection or appreciation. This manic approach to travel seems to replace contemplation. It is no recipe for understanding.
Our hope is to create a Quadrangle space adjacent to the Smithsonian buildings in our south garden area. Here in an atmosphere of quiet mini-parks we hope to create two adjoining museums, interlocking below the surface, lighted by skylights, with ceremonial entrance pavilions symbolizing the worlds of Africa and Asia, and their riches, their fundamental meaning for us all. Is it not vastly important that the annual visitors to the Mall, representing nearly ten percent of our population, should have an opportunity to assimilate some of the significance of this luminous majority, a majority who are too little understood or valued for their vital interconnections with us at every level? James Smithson spoke of his hope for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
10 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 22>>>

among all mankind. This Institution was to benefit all, not merely Americans, but how better could we thus benefit Americans?
Our Quadrangle plan calls for the centering here of educational programs to spread out across the country, of exhibitions to travel to far places, of meetings, discussions, seminars, occasions at which representatives of all these nations could foregather and communicate. The strength of our nation comes from understanding, not merely from weapons. We need reminders of the origins of civilization in two-thirds of the world, of its diffusion spreading out through the moral suasion of religion as it evolved across the Middle East and Asia and the unequivocal force it remains today. If a sheathed sword is a symbol of peace, so too will be our garden, our Quadrangle, a center for illumination, and for hope.
This Institution must reaffirm what is our conviction, that all mankind is our concern. Our folk festival has demonstrated our concern for interpreting the minority interests and cultures here. The Woodrow Wilson Center next door in the Castle has demonstrated the wisdom of discourse, of debate freed from politics. In the same way, cultural history and tradition must be defused, stayed from politicization, if any degree of understanding is to be achieved. The certain death of our Quadrangle plan would be to have it seem to be used, to assume political meaning. These are dangerous days, and passions and suspicions lie close to the surface of man’s thinking, exacerbated by technology, fed by fears of ultimate destruction. To survive we must revive respect for historical and religious traditions of all kinds, and for self-discipline. It should be the goal of every government. We persist, rightly I think, in believing that it is our own goal, the conviction of Americans.
Several of our exhibitions this year past gave a foretaste of those to be seen in the Quadrangle’s galleries: Renaissance of Islam: The Art of the Mamluks, which opened at the Smithsonian and is now circulating under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, is an unprecedented exhibition of diverse arts produced in the most creative age in medieval Islam. The Arts of Ancient Egypt: Treasures on Another Scale, a collection of pharaonic treasures, was part of the “Egypt Today”’ symposium sponsored in the Washington area in part by the Resident
Statement by the Secretary / 11

<<<Page: 23>>>

Associates Program. And 5000 Years of Korean Art, the inaugural exhibition in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery, illustrated with some 345 objects the richness and diversity of Korean artistic traditions.
Other exhibitions, not so directly tied to efforts at developing an understanding of other cultures, but an understanding of our own, were unveiled in measured pace, freshening our face and adding rich new experiences to the cumulative identity of the Smithsonian. Each is a testament to the fulfillment of our mandate to conserve that part of mankind’s creation entrusted to us.
At the National Museum of American History (formerly the National Museum of History and Technology) Jefferson and Science highlighted the scientific pursuits of Thomas Jefferson; Perfect in Her Place traced the struggles and successes of women at work in industrial America; and Images of Labor commemorated the onehundredth anniversary of the founding of the American Federation of Labor. At the Hirshhorn Museum, The Avant-Garde in Russia, 1910-1930: New Perspectives, presented art from the tumultuous pre-Revolutionary period. The National Portrait Gallery opened Champions of American Sport, an eye-catching tribute to one hundred athletes from the 1830s to the present, including such personalities as Babe Ruth, Willie Shoemaker, Ben Hogan, Sonja Henie, Muhammed Ali, Billie Jean King, Jesse Owens, Johnny Weismuller, and Jack Nicklaus. Afer leaving the gallery, the exhibition began its travels to Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York. Jet Aviation, summarizing the first forty years of jet aviation (1930-70) by tracing the evolution of commercial and military jet aircraft and highlighting the careers and contribution of jet-age engineers and designers, opened at the National Air and Space Museum. Anna J. Cooper: A Voice from the South, an exhibition bringing this remarkable woman to life in the broad context of her time—the several decades before and after the turn of the century—opened to much critical acclaim at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.
Conservation does not mean “sealed away or removed from experience.” Some objects must even be brought to life so that we may experience their meaning more completely. So it was with our celebration of the birthday of the 150-year-old locomotive, John Bull, which operated under its own steam before the public along the Chessie System tracks near Georgetown. Bellowing smoke, steam, and cinders, the train chugged out of the past, recreating an experience of the earliest days of rail travel.
12 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 24>>>

Dr. Esin Atil (back to camera), exhibition curator for the show titled Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks, points out a detail to Mr. and Mrs. Harry Grey of United Technologies, Ambassador of the Arab League Clovis Maksoud, and Mrs. Alfred Atherton, wife of the U.S. ambassador to Egypt.
As part of the opening festivities of the exhibition 5000 Years of Korean Art in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery at NMNH and dedication of the gallery, Korean musicians performed there and in the museum’s rotunda. Below. Professor Milo Cleveland Beach of Williams College—a scholar chosen in 1980 as fourth Smithsonian Regents Fellow—prepares works for the Freer’s exhibition on The Imperial Image: Paintings for the Mughal Court. Focus of this exhibition is the great body of work produced in northern India in the 100-year period from 1560 on.

<<<Page: 25>>>

While our exhibition program conserves for all that part of mankind’s creation entrusted to us, our colleagues in biological research provide the foundation for conservation of what remains.
The Radiation Biology Laboratory’s continued study of photosynthetic utilization efficiency in plants growing under artificial lights shows that lamps developed commercially for horticultural applications yield no higher photosynthetic utilization efficiencies than some of the most common lamps developed for lighting applications.
Our curator of invertebrate zoology, Meredith Jones, during innovative research on giant sea worms off the Galapagos, discovered that bacteria in the worms’ guts produced an enzyme that could transform sulfur and use the resulting energy to make atp— a chemical crucial to the formation of carbohydrates.
The National Zoological Park opened its new Ape House, creating an environment that will promote social interaction among our apes and help insure their survival in captivity. The Zoo received the Edward H. Bean award from The American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums for notable breeding accomplishment with captive Chinese alligators, and John Eisenberg was presented the Merriam Award by the American Mammal Society.
Taking notice of years of this endeavor to conserve our past and future, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of its move to Cambridge, and the National Air and Space Museum the fifth anniversary of its opening.
International research and collaboration by Smithsonian scholars, an embodiment of Joseph Henry’s concept of global correspondents, reaches into almost every country on the earth. Although the exchange of letters, objects, and scientists has greatly expanded with the advent of modern transportation and technology, the scholarto-scholar basis envisioned by Henry is, in general, maintained. The pursuit of knowledge blurs all distinctions and ideologies that may exist among scholars. During the course of the year, the Office of International Activities arranged 82 programs for visiting foreign dignitaries, numbering 276 persons, including 16 groups totaling 117 from the People’s Republic of China alone. Thirty-eight programs of other institutions at home and abroad were assisted in developing contacts with the Institution. In December 1980, following a proposal to Vice Premier Fang Yi, an agreement to foster
14 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 26>>>

joint research with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, People’s Republic of China, was signed. Collaborative research was started in July 1981 when Chinese scholars joined the Smithsonian’s Pleistocene archeological excavation in Colorado. In the fall, Smithsonian scientists from the National Museum of Natural History/ Museum of Man and Tropical Research Institute conducted research in marine invertebrate biology and paleobiology in China.
During the course of the year, we were pleased to welcome special guests to the Smithsonian. The Prime Minister of Korea was here to present the Smithsonian with a check for $1 million as an earnest of Korean support for our Quadrangle project, and the Prime Minister of Japan and Mrs. Suzuki planted a beautiful flowering cherry, Prunus incisa, to symbolize our partnership in its development. Mrs. Jihan El-Sadat opened our exhibitions celebrating “Egypt Today.” Their Imperial Highnesses Prince and Princess Hitachi, His Royal Highness Prince Charles, and His Highness the Aga Khan and Princess Sarilla were here to learn of us and added luster by their presence.
Recognizing that not everyone can travel to us for our exhibitions, performances, and activities centered here, we endeavored, through many means, to reach our national and international constituency. Our book and record publishing activities are part of this effort to make our many faces available throughout the land. This year saw the release of Classic Country, an eight-record anthology of this important American musical idiom. Smithsonian Exposition Books’ Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun, with contributions by many of our staff, traced man’s understanding of the sun from his early worship through today’s developments in solar technology.
Performing arts events at the Smithsonian brought lecture demonstrations and performances by troupes—from all over the world—like the Kathakali Music Drama from India, the Philippine Dance Company, and Japanese Kabuki dancers, which added explanations of their origins for contrast with our own. Music of earlier ages was played on authentic instruments as the composers intended. Instruments like the Servais violoncello created by Stradivari in 1701, donated this year to the Division of Musical Instruments by Charlotte V. Bergen, were brought to life again.
The Festival of American Folklife continued to appeal to a vast
Statement by the Secretary / 15

<<<Page: 27>>>

Quadrangle development brought many important visitors and a bustle of activities providing a glimpse of our dream for the site. Prime Minister of Japan and Mrs. Suzuki saw the model and planted a flowering cherry tree (top). Prime Minister Begin of Israel visited with Vice-President and Mrs. Bush (center). Prince and Princess Hitachi of Japan (bottom) restated their country’s partnership with ours in working toward the goals affirmed in the Quadrangle.

<<<Page: 28>>>

Secretary Ripley and Qian Sangiang, Vice-President of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, People’s Republic of China, sign an agreement to foster joint research and exchanges (top). Mrs. Sadat (center) is shown with Director Lawton
at the Freer Gallery during “Egypt Today” symposium activities. Below. His Excellency Lee Kwang-Pyo, Minister of Culture and Information of
the Republic of Korea, and Secretary Ripley open
the major exhibition
5000 Years of Korean Art.

<<<Page: 29>>>

His Royal Highness Prince Charles (Great Britain) is shown inspecting the historic Albatros D.Va during his May Ist visit to the National Air and Space Museum. He is accompanied by Secretary Ripley and nasm Assistant Director Walter Boyne. Below. President Reagan visited the exhibition George Catlin: The Artist and the American Indian with Catlin expert William Truettner, Curator of 18th and 19th Century Painting and Sculpture at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American Art.

<<<Page: 30>>>

audience, and in addition to the usual demonstrations and exhibition of crafts, ethnic food, and musical performances, this year we had a special exhibition on Folklore for the Deaf. Visitors learned something about what it is like to grow up deaf through dramas by deaf actors and instruction in American sign language as well as displays of flashing-light alarm clocks and other ingenious signaling devices.
Few have been as persistent in the furtherance of culture in America as Joseph Hirshhorn, with whose sudden death on August 31 we have suffered an irreparable loss. History will recall this great man for his magnificent contribution to the Smithsonian, and through the Institution to people the world over. In the annals of the Smithsonian he has earned, and he shall always have, a special place of his own. But Joe has been an irresistible presence in all our lives, and it is almost impossible to imagine Washington, the Smithsonian, and his museum without him. He was—as he was apt to say of anyone from a guard at the museum to the president of the United States—truly a darling man.
It seems that never a year passes at the Smithsonian without a number of changes in our senior staff, and this year has been no exception. We were sorry to receive the resignation of Marvin Sadik, the vivacious, scholarly, and articulate director of the National Portrait Gallery since 1969, who left to labor in other cultural vineyards—but only after we could present him with the Secretary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional Service. Nearly simultaneously, we were all extremely shocked and saddened by the untimely death of Joshua Taylor, the Director of the National Museum of American Art (formerly the National Collection of Fine Arts). Josh’s contributions to Smithsonian life will be surfacing for years to come. Professor and scholar, Josh’s greatest legacy has been the interdependent roles of public education and scholarship in the museum setting.
Another sad departure this year resulted from the death of Raymond Mondor, a former personnel expert who became our first ombudsman in 1977. Ray pioneered in this important office, and his compassionate demeanor and thorough knowledge combined to establish the ombudsman as an effective tool in employee relations. We were pleased to appoint John Lang, formerly of the General Counsel’s Office, to take up where Ray had left off.
Statement by the Secretary / 19

<<<Page: 31>>>

During the last year, we were fortunate to attract two outstanding officials from the International Communication Agency. Dr. John Reinhardt, the former director of 1ca, has agreed to serve as acting director of the National Museum of African Art during Warren Robbins’s absence on sabbatical. (It should be noted, too, that Jean Salan of the museum has been serving as the acting deputy director.) And Dr. Alice Ilchman, formerly associate director for educational and cultural affairs at the 1ca, served as a consultant to the Institution on the subject of overseas research institutions. She has gone on, now, to become the president of Sarah Lawrence College. We had to give up the invaluable services of another senior woman, Miss Jean Smith, who retired this year as deputy director for the Smithsonian Libraries. For more than twelve years a steady force in the development of our library system, Miss Smith has earned the time she will now devote to her own intellectual pursuits as a research associate in the library.
The Smithsonian lost a very special friend this year in the death of Margaret McNamara, the founder, key proponent, and chairman of Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. This year’s and previous annual reports delineate the remarkable achievements of this organization, now only fifteen years old. We shall all miss Margaret’s presence in RIF affairs, but shall be going on, from strength to strength, with our new chairman, Anne Richardson, in the spirit of Margaret and with her vision for literacy in America.
20 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 32>>>

Board of Regents
THE BOARD OF REGENTS held three formal meetings during the last year. Additional meetings of the Regents’ Executive Committee, the Audit and Review Committee, the Personnel Committee, and the Investment Policy Committee were held throughout the year and reported at the Regents’ meetings.
The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on January 26, 1981, in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Castle and was called to order by the Chancellor. The Personnel Committee reported finding no evidence of conflict of interest in the financial statements of the senior staff of the Institution. In recognition of his work on behalf of the Audit and Review Committee, in addition to his continuing role on that committee and on the National Portrait Gallery Commission, the Regents conferred upon former Regent Senator Robert B. Morgan the title of Regent Emeritus, with all the rights and responsibilities thereof.
The Treasurer reviewed financial developments since the last Regents’ meeting in September 1980, and summarized the fiscal year 1980 results, which are presented in Smithsonian Year 1980. It was noted that federal funds totaling $137,144,000 were appropriated to the Institution for fiscal year 1981, including an unanticipated $5 million provided for the Museum Support Center to permit its construction as originally planned. The Regents were briefed on the Office of Management and Budget allowance for fiscal year 1982 and the Institution’s consolidated budget as submitted to the Congress. The Investment Policy Committee reported on its meeting of December 8, 1980, and analyzed the performances of the three investment managers. With the Board’s approval the Chancellor appointed Regent Emeritus Thomas J. Watson, Jr., to the Investment Policy Committee.
The Regents discussed and approved the Five-Year Prospectus for fiscal years 1982-1986. It was noted that the projected increases
Statement by the Secretary / 21

<<<Page: 33>>>

in the Institution’s budget during that time are primarily due to inflation. The Regents agreed with the Secretary’s suggestion that in the future the Prospectus would include projections beyond a five-year period for certain activities.
Noting the historical significance of the “Smithsonian Park” and its suitability for underground development, the Secretary discussed a revised model of the Quadrangle and the need to accommodate therein a Center for Eastern Art, the National Museum of African Art, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the Resident and National Associate programs, and kindred activities. He reported that rising construction costs are necessitating reconfigurations of the proposed structure, and that efforts are being made to stay within original estimates. The Secretary also reported that domestic and foreign committees had been formed to raise funds from corporations and foundations. Of paramount importance was the approval of the Quadrangle concept by the National Capital Planning Commission.
With the Board and the Congress appropriating the additional funds needed to meet escalated costs, the Smithsonian was able to sign a contract for construction of the Museum Support Center as planned. The Secretary outlined the steps which resulted in full funding and assured the Regents that complete progress reports would be available.
The Regents approved revised bylaws of the Commission of the National Museum of American Art, recommended by the commission at its meeting on December 4, 1980, to reflect the Regents’ delegation of authority to the Secretary for approving accessions and dispositions, and other policies and procedures adopted by the Regents in 1970. The Regents also approved the bylaws recommended by the National Portrait Gallery Commission on January 15, 1981, similarly recognizing the Regents’ delegation to the Secretary of authority for approving accessions and dispositions in accord with the policies and procedures laid down by the Board. The latter bylaws also increased the membership from eleven to fifteen and provided for standing committees.
In other actions, the Regents appointed Senator Goldwater to the National Portrait Gallery Commission and to its chairmanship and appointed Dr. Milton Ratner to the National Museum of African Art Commission.
22 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 34>>>

In recognition of his timely donation, which enabled the Institution to develop a special exhibitions gallery in the National Museum of Natural History/Museum of Man, the Regents named the new facility the Thomas M. Evans Gallery.
The Secretary presented a series of status reports on the Museum of Man, the Equal Opportunity Program, major construction projects, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, litigation, legislation, publishing, and television.
A dinner for the Regents was held in the Renwick Gallery on Sunday evening, January 25. The Chancellor welcomed new Regents, Vice President Bush and Congressman Boland, and introduced the Secretary, who presented the Smithsonian Associates’ Corporate Founders’ Medal to Mr. David Rockefeller and the Chase Manhattan Bank in recognition of their donation to the Smithsonian of the magnificent ““Chase Manhattan Bank Money Collection.” The Secretary also presented to the Honorable Lucien N. Nedzi, retiring from the U.S. House of Representatives, a piece of smithsonite and a citation of gratitude for his fine service as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Libraries and Memorials (1971-1981).
The spring meeting of the Board of Regents, May 4, 1981, was preceded that morning by the dedication of the Langley Theater in the National Air and Space Museum. Senator Goldwater spoke of the significant aeronautical work of Samuel P. Langley, third Secretary of the Smithsonian, and of Messrs. Burden’s and Webb’s great achievements in promoting what is now considered the world’s most popular museum. Dr. Hinners, director of the museum, awarded certificates of appreciation to Messrs. James Greenwell and Wolfgang Gadson, National Air and Space Museum staff, who heroically rescued a woman from the Metro tracks.
Following the dedication, the Regents’ meeting was called to order by the Chancellor, who welcomed the new Senator Regent E. J. “Jake” Garn. The Executive Committee reported on its meeting of April 6, 1981, where, in addition to considering the entire array of agenda items, the committee noted with pleasure that in a poll the Regents had unanimously voted to award the Henry Medal to Mr. Burden in recognition of his manifold services to the Smithsonian as a friend and Regent since 1962. The medal was presented at the May 3 Regents’ Dinner (see below).
Statement by the Secretary / 23

<<<Page: 35>>>

The Audit and Review Committee reported on its meeting of April 28, 1981, where it reviewed with Coopers and Lybrand the Smithsonian’s trust fund financial statements for fiscal year 1980 and the recommendations to management for “fine tuning” accounting procedures and automatic data processing operations. Briefed by the Treasurer and Assistant Secretary for Administration on the scope of operations and controls in auxiliary activities, the committee suggested that these activities are integral to successful educational outreach and, properly managed, are stimuli to the market for educational products.
The Treasurer reported that, as part of the government-wide budget reductions, the Office of Management and Budget reduced the Institution’s pay supplemental request by $732,000 to a total of $4,613,000, and reduced the federal full-time permanent employment ceiling by 113 positions, from 3,340 to 3,227. It was noted that a hiring freeze would be continued indefinitely to meet the reduced ceiling and that savings from that freeze and other oms restrictions would be used to cover the unfinanced portion of the supplemental requirement. The Board approved the Secretary’s recommendation that $500,000 of unrestricted trust funds be set aside as a reserve for possible television production costs. With respect to fiscal year 1982, the Treasurer noted that oms deferred until fiscal year 1983 the Quadrangle construction money, but allowed the Institution to request from the Congress an amount of $1 million for Quadrangle planning. In further action by oms, the full-time permanent employment ceiling previously allowed for fiscal year 1982 was reduced by ninety-six and an associated reduction of $1.8 million was also applied, reducing the salaries and expenses request from $136,886,000 to $135,086,000. The Secretary commented on the friendly and constructive congressional appropriations hearings.
Referring to the growth of budget figures in the Five-Year Prospectus, the Secretary introduced a study which discounted those budget estimates into constant 1981 dollars and thus gave a measure of the real growth of the Institution. Real growth of gross operating funds from 1970 to 1981 was at a compound annual rate of 6.5 percent; for the next five years, with gross revenues from auxiliary activities increasing at a more modest rate, real growth is expected to decline to a rate of 4 percent. Net operating funds,
24 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 36>>>

exclusive of trust fund auxiliary activity expenses, are expected to continue at approximately the same 4 percent growth rate as from 1970 to 1981.
The Investment Policy Committee reported that, as of March 31, 1981, the total value of the Institution’s endowment under outside management was $86,761,000. It was noted that the total Smithsonian endowment funds have been out-performing standard market indices for the first time since December 1979.
The Secretary reviewed the status of the Quadrangle project, lamenting the fact that the deferral of construction from fiscal year 1982 to 1983 would lead to increased costs due to inflation. He noted that all requirements under the National Historic Preservation Act have been completed and that progress has been made in raising funds from American corporations, individuals, and foundations. The Secretary also outlined strategies for eliciting support in the Far East, Middle East, and Africa.
The Secretary reported that the Council of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, established in 1978 to advise the Secretary on the museum’s activities, had drafted its bylaws, and the Secretary recommended a list of members of the council. To formalize the role of the council, the Regents approved the bylaws and appointed the following individuals to the council: Rosemary Corroon, Joanne du Pont, Harmon Goldstone, August Heckscher, Karen Johnson Keland, Russell Lynes, Gilbert C. Maurer, Kenneth Miller, Amanda Ross, Arthur Ross, Robert Sarnoff, and Marietta Tree. In a separate action, the Regents appointed Professor Barbara Novak to the Commission of the National Portrait Gallery.
The Secretary gave a detailed report on the construction of the Museum Support Center and progress in the Institution-wide inventory. Dr. Gell-Mann pointed out that the Museum Support Center affords the Smithsonian a great opportunity to develop a first-rate program in archeometry, which the Regents affirmed in passing Dr. Gell-Mann’s resolution.
The Regents noted the death of Joshua C. Taylor on April 26, and voted to record their profound regret: “Scholar, educator, and connoisseur, his manifold contributions to the National Museum of American Art will be of lasting significance both in the Smithsonian and in the world of learning.”
The Secretary reported that Ambassador John Reinhardt will
Statement by the Secretary / 25

<<<Page: 37>>>

serve as Acting Director of the National Museum of African Art, while Warren Robbins takes a sabbatical for purposes of studying, collecting, and writing. He also reported that Tom Wolf, formerly Director of Cultural Affairs at ABC-TV News, will come to the Institution for six months to study possible Smithsonian television programming from marketing and production points of view.
Other reports from the Secretary included the International Year of Disabled Persons, the Security of the National Collections, the Equal Opportunity Program, the Museum of Man, legislation, litigation, and construction projects. It was noted that the Secretary had received Belgium’s highest civilian honor, the Order of Leopold, on April 22, and the Medal of Honor from the National Society for the Daughters of the American Revolution on April 30; the Regents offered their unanimous consent and congratulations to Mr. Ripley.
The Regents’ Dinner was held on Sunday evening, May 3, at the Paul E. Garber Facility of the National Air and Space Museum in Suitland, Maryland. The Chancellor presented the Henry Medal to William Armistead Moale Burden: “”. . . In grateful salute to this perceptive man, the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution are proud to present to him the Henry Medal for his outstanding service.” As approved by the Regents at their January meeting, the Secretary then presented Langley medals for aerodromics to Drs. Robert T. Jones and Charles Stark Draper.
On behalf of the Chancellor, Mr. Webb, Chairman of the Executive Committee, called the Regents’ autumn meeting to order in the Regents’ Room at 9:30 a.mM., September 14, 1981. The meeting began with a memorial tribute to the late Joseph H. Hirshhorn, “a friend, a colleague, and an incomparable patron who shared with us all his passion for art.’” The Regents noted his extraordinary gift of contemporary art to the nation and sent their best wishes to Mrs. Hirshhorn and the family.
Reporting on the Executive Committee meeting of August 17, 1981, Mr. Webb said that the committee reviewed all the business before the Institution and commended to the Regents’ attention the agenda papers for the autumn meeting. The Executive Committee lamented the recent death of Harold F. Linder, a founding member of the Regents’ Investment Policy Committee whose counsel and interest would be sorely missed.
26 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 38>>>

The late Joseph H. Hirshhorn is shown at a reception in his museum with Director and Mrs. Abram Lerner in June 1981. Below. Joshua C. Taylor, Director of the National Museum of American Art from 1970 until his death on April 26, 1981, was scholar, university professor, educator, mentor, beloved presence at the Smithsonian. A scholarship fund is established in his name to support research in American art at NMAA.
Pe 4 1 yy ee

<<<Page: 39>>>

The Regents noted with interest that the Audit and Review Committee and the Personnel Committee planned a joint meeting in October 1981 to review the Smithsonian’s procedures for personal financial disclosure and related standards of professional conduct. Other items on the committees’ agenda will include a mid-audit conference with Coopers and Lybrand, consideration of recommendations on an indemnity bylaw and insurance against personal liability of individual Regents, and a review of computer services at the Institution. The committees also looked forward to discussing procedures for guaranteed construction and repair services.
The Treasurer noted that the Institution is receiving the full amount of the fiscal year 1981 supplemental federal budget request, and is also receiving an unsolicited $200,000 for the celebration of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s one hundredth birthday. He also reported that the fiscal year 1981 trust funds would conclude the year at the break-even level with certain stated variances from earlier projections. The Treasurer summarized the varying House and Senate actions in the budget request for fiscal year 1982, which actions were being appealed to the conference committee. With projections that net income will be lower than in the previous year, the general fund budget expenditures would also be lower, and a break-even budget is in sight; the Regents approved a fiscal year 1982 trust fund budget and authorized the Secretary to expend funds provided in the fiscal year 1982 federal budget.
The Regents also approved the fiscal year 1983 consolidated budget forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget. The federal budget recognizes stringent budget restraints throughout the government and proposes no new programmatic starts, but rather emphasizes the security and maintenance of the Smithsonian buildings and the national collections, the requirements of the Museum Support Center, and the computerization and modernization of equipment.
The Investment Policy Committee though reporting a slight decline in the total value of the Smithsonian endowment funds for the quarter ended June 30, 1981, was pleased to note the favorable performance of all three investment management firms in the last three years.
The Regents discussed the fact that the Act of August 10, 1846 (20 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), which established the Smithsonian, provided
28 / Smithsonian Year 1981
a te

<<<Page: 40>>>

for the payment of 6 percent per year on funds deriving from the bequest of James Smithson that are on permanent loan to the United States Treasury. It was noted that inflation and rising interest rates have rendered the statutory rate uncompetitive, and the Regents therefore voted to seek legislation to adjust that rate to the current average yield of the outstanding marketable securities of the United States Government, less 25 basis points (with a minimum of 6 percent).
The staff presented the Regents with a draft and summary tables of the Five-Year Prospectus for fiscal years 1983-1987. The text highlighted progress over the past year in Smithsonian’s programs and delineated expectations for fiscal year 1982 and for the planning and budget period of fiscal years 1983-87. At the Secretary’s suggestion, a new chapter forecast program and facility aspirations through 1995. The Regents looked forward to commenting on the draft and to approving a revised draft in January 1982.
The Secretary noted progress in the prospective authorization and appropriation of $1 million for Quadrangle planning in House and Senate actions to date. He reported that additional technical and design studies, recent unexpectedly high levels of construction industry cost escalations, and a year’s delay in the proposed starting date indicate that the earlier estimate for the Quadrangle, despite certain reductions in the scope of the project, will increase by about 50 percent to a new total of $75 million. Reporting on fund-raising, the Secretary acknowledged recent donations and pledges which amounted to over $7 million, including unrestricted trust fund transfers and interest. Additional pledges appeared imminent from the Middle East and other sources. Since the Instituition will be seeking through the oms and the Congress the federal share of Quadrangle construction funds, $36 million, in its fiscal year 1983 budget request, the Regents requested their congressional members to introduce and support legislation authorizing the Board to construct the Quadrangle.
In recognition of his great scientific achievements and outstanding leadership of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, the Regents voted to name the Mount Hopkins, Arizona, Observatory “The Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory.” The Regents also appointed Mrs. Joan Kaplan Davidson to a three-year term on the Council of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and asked their con-
Statement by the Secretary / 29

<<<Page: 41>>>

John Bull, oldest operable locomotive in the world, steams along tracks near the C&O Canal in Washington as part of the engine’s 150th anniversary celebration.

<<<Page: 42>>>

gressional members to seek legislation reauthorizing the National Museum Act at $1 million annually for fiscal years 1983-1985.
The Secretary outlined a series of status reports on the Museum Support Center, the inventory, and collections management; legislation; other major construction projects; the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange; museum security; litigation; television; and personnel matters.
Following the meeting, the Regents were driven to Georgetown where they boarded the National Museum of American History’s 1836 railroad passenger car for a ride behind that museum’s 150-year-old John Bull locomotive to Fletcher’s Landing, where they enjoyed an alfresco luncheon with a period menu.
The traditional Regents’ dinner was held the preceding evening, Sunday, September 13, 1981, in the Balcony Gallery of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Of special interest was the dedication of the renovated sculpture garden, which now features improved aesthetics and full accessibility to the handicapped.
Statement by the Secretary / 31

<<<Page: 43>>>

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS Fiscal Years 1970, 1975, and 1979-1981 (In $1,000,000’s)
ae 228 nt FUNDS PROVIDED Auxiliary and 200 $$$ ii Burret nn Activities Expenses Nonappropriated Trust Funds (Is ans a aE (Gross Revenues) 1150 fo x Unrestricted “+ Restricted Federal Grants T2522 eetetesecetet and Contracts aT )e3 eae ET se = 7s | _______Eee = — = Federal = —— Appropriations he ee Se _——— SES oe 25 —— —____ oe = 0 1970 1975 1979 1980 1981 (| To Plant and Endowment 225 TT
\| Hi | \||\\||| Administration and Facilities Services
125 Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses
Special Programs Museum Programs Public Service
History and Art
Science
1970 1975 1979 1980 19812

<<<Page: 44>>>

Smithsonian Institution » 1981
Summary: During this past fiscal year, the Smithsonian continued its wide range of activities in exhibits, research, publication, and public education. The diversity of the Institution’s programs is reflected in the diversity of funding sources which support these endeavors. While the majority of the operating budget is provided annually from federal appropriations, indispensable support is also obtained from gifts and grants, from investment income, and from earned revenues of auxiliary activities. This combination of support from Congress, foundations, federal agencies, individuals, and the general public, has enabled the Institution to perform significant accomplishments during the year, as reported elsewhere in this volume.
The bar chart on the facing page outlines the overall source and application of the Institution’s operating budget for fiscal year 1981 and prior periods. While the growth pattern of past years is evident again in fiscal year 1981, these increased revenues were more a function of inflation than expansion of programs and were therefore devoted in large measure to offsetting the higher costs of personnel, supplies, utilities, maintenance, and acquisitions. Due to a hiring freeze during most of the year on civil service personnel as well as self-imposed limitations on other hires, the full-time staff of the Institution grew only one percent, primarily in the areas of facilities protection and maintenance and the auxiliary activities.
In the current climate of budgetary restraint, the Institution was treated by Congress with supportive understanding. The total federal appropriation of $142 million, of which $122 million was for

<<<Page: 45>>>

operating purposes, provided base resources for research and education, for conservation and study of the national collections, for renovation and maintenance of Smithsonian facilities, and for administrative and support services, as well as assisting the Institution in meeting unavoidable cost increases due to inflation. The appropriation also provided further significant funding for constructing and equipping the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland, which will provide essential storage and conservation facilities for the national collections, and program funding for selected exhibition and collection management projects.
While federal appropriations provide the core support for the Institution’s programs, and are expected to do so in the future, nonappropriated trust funds from various sources are also vital to the research and outreach efforts. In recognition of this need as well as of the value of services provided, strong public financial support continued last year through the Smithsonian Associates programs, other educational auxiliary activities, gifts from individuals, and grants from foundations and corporations. Net revenues from these nonappropriated sources, after deduction of operating expenses and the sales cost of auxiliary activities, were higher than the prior year. Thus in addition to meeting ongoing program commitments— such as the Regents’ Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs, preand post-doctoral fellowships, and operating allotments to certain bureaux—the Institution followed the practice of prior years in transferring some $2.5 million of unrestricted trust funds into endowment. Funds were also made available for the Museum Support Center to augment the federal contribution to this endeavor.
There was further progress during the year in raising nonappropriated funds for the Quadrangle, the future site of two museums of the cultures of Asia and Africa. With a $1 million gift from the Government of Korea during the year, as well as gifts from individuals, foundations, and corporations and unrestricted moneys designated to the project, total nonappropriated funds received for the project in fiscal year 1981 were $3,455,000. The partnership of federal appropriations with direct public support, evident in other Smithsonian programs, will be an essential part of the financial plan for this venture.
34 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 46>>>

Taste 1. Financial Summary (In $1,000’s)
Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ............ $ 98,202 Federal Agency Grants & Contracts ............+++.04-11,412 Nonappropriated Trust Funds: Rorgixestrictedsbunposesui) 4-192 1). sale eryac ele eres ale 4,577 For Unrestricted & Special Purposes: Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross ..... 67,360 Messer clatedsexpensesier eee eerie ia (57,557) Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ......... 9,803 Investment, Gift, and Other Income ................ 3,394 Total Net Unrest. & Special Purpose Revenue ....... 13,197 Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ........... 75,331 NOE ie ne ieiersysycucreheys 17,774 Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ................. 184,945 NEES Ss oSieoints one, eFeve fel «lsh $127,388 FUNDS APPLIED: ST TOTIC CRM ee ele rreoe eOe SSeS CLetiod SUSE S eueusreoetaus cusnsveus $ 53,002 MessisA Ol@verhead RECOVELY ae © Satis 6 ale o'eystolele ire = bells (1,850) iA MeR ony Keaiteta0'9d comin 6 DO o50 468 HNO HOMO capo Oe OOD. 20,245 Pirielie Sangre as Jain Ba or a.s Bee nee ON Ste ce OB Ba RSPR ees ne 2,927 VIE SELIIN EKO PTAING ot ercoys ei ysioaie are or Ye cievetor el ovoler oie sys lol rsh 8,003 Special PCED ooo dcesueon 6 uoebs enn oobD DON SOOO ODDE 2,692 Associates and Business Management .................. 304 PRAMINIStrAatlON—— Fede ra leit scarey syevey slrencyede vovoeey sueHellep eieiloustore ious 7,071 —Nonappropriated Trust Funds ...................0-. 4,134 Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery ..............(4,038) PACINITIOSHOELVICES! fc), cteveis cs ctx Sie apes suoteherosefegoyn onet elle i eielavenoxe 27,790 Motalt@perating, Eunds Applied... 4....05-20-see eee = 120,280 Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds) Wnrestricted| Funds—To Plant... ..:<.c5:<.6.2:0)0 6 operate aysuere iene 1,857 —Io' Endowments: j.2.-04-5-. 4+: 2,671 Restricted Funds—To Endowments ................--: 413 Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out ....... $125,221 CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUND BALANCES: Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts) ... $ 171 Unrestricted—General Purpose ..............-...0 eee 33 ——Opecial (PUTPOSE corse e ss oo ee sists selec s 1,963 Mio SAUER Se ee Sins renee ah elie Gn ola oe oan La $2,167
MEG EICLECMEMED OSES concn AT ye A Teo ee cee naTAe eS $ 4,900 Unrestricted—General Purpose ...............0 eee eee 4,965 === SDECIAL EULPOSE) ere caeiateis CaS hae ercins een ce 11,567
TUS scien acehtehene fe: ae ere aie ais Baebin et Is eaten Ae rae en $ 21,432
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange .............. $ 2,063 Special Foreign Gurrency Program << ce... ++ cit em acces 3,700 KEOTISEDHCLION as wate cise G Gitte ele & ates ists. saonovarara eaten teres 6,575
Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) ........ $110,540
$107,764 12,947
5,339
75,150 (65,933)
217 3,825
13,042
84,314 18,381
205,025 $139,092
$ 57,907 (2,196) 26,224
3,129 8,974 3,204 345 8,048 4,937 (4,379) 30,630
136,823
1,342 2,031 757
$140,953
$ (225) 36 (1,672)
$ (1,861)
4,200 32,100
$144,064
$122,478 14,172
6,378
88,381 (75,924)
12,457 4,887
17,344
99,646 23,722
236,296 $160,372
$ 62,703 (2,470) 25,614
3,421 8,084 7,284 312 8,782 5,740 (5,014) 36,501
150,957
2,550 2,550 108
$156,165***
$ 1,276 42 2,704
$ 4,022
$ 5,951 5,043 12,599
$ 23,593
$ a 3,650 15,829
$141,957
*Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: FY 1979—
**Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1979—$47,000; FY 1980—$267,000; FY 1981—
$64,000. ***Excludes $185,000 available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.

<<<Page: 47>>>

Operating Funds—Sources and Application
Once again, the overall operating budget of the Institution has shown substantial growth over the past year, as displayed in Table 1 as well as the bar chart. Total gross operating funds grew from $205,025,000 in fiscal year 1980 to $236,296,000 in fiscal year 1981, an increase of $31,271,000 or 15 percent. Of the total available operating funds, 52 percent were derived from federal appropriations, 6 percent from federal agency grants and contracts, and 42 percent from nonappropriated sources, approximately the same ratios as in recent years.
The growth in net operating funds, after deduction of the expenses of the nonappropriated auxiliary and bureau activities, was also 15 percent, or $21,280,000 over the prior year. Those net operating funds, which support a wide range of Smithsonian programs, were obtained 76 percent from federal appropriations, 9 percent from federal agency grants and contracts, and 15 percent from nonappropriated sources. Application of these funds by all Smithsonian bureaux is outlined in Table 2, with further supporting detail in other tables.
The Institution received a federal appropriation for operating purposes in fiscal year 1981 of $122,478,000, an increase of $14.7 million, or 14 percent, over fiscal year 1980. The apparent growth represented by this increase was in large part attributable to inflation in the areas of pay, utilities, rent, and other objects of expense, which, following the pattern of recent years, continued to absorb the major portion, over $9.6 million, of increased funding. Beyond these inflationary increases, however, $5.1 million was allowed for a number of program needs throughout the Institution. While almost half of the programmatic increase was for the purchase of equipment for the Museum Support Center, to be phased over a period of several years, significant support also was received for the development of major new exhibitions in the History and Art museums; for expenses of the Tropical Research Institute resulting from implementation of the Panama Canal Treaty; for protection, administrative, and maintenance requirements; and for a variety of other
36 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 48>>>

needs primarily related to the conservation and management of the collections.
In order to meet a reduced federal personnel ceiling imposed by the Office of Management and Budget, the Institution maintained a hiring freeze throughout most of the year. Dollar savings of $1.4 million resulted from this employment freeze as well as other spending limitations imposed by the Office of Management and Budget.
Support from federal agencies, in the form of grants and contracts, primarily for the Institution’s research programs, totaled $14.2 million for fiscal year 1981, an increase of 9 percent over fiscal year 1980. As may be seen in Table 3, the major source of grant and contract support was the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, primarily for research programs of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao). Significant programs at sAO were experiments in high energy astrophysics, hydrogen maser construction, and satellite tracking. Other important research programs receiving support were the medical entomology project at the National Museum of Natural History, supported by the Department of the Army; research into conservation of wild primates conducted by the National Zoological Park with funds from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; and the National Science Foundation support to the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (via the Chesapeake Research Consortium) for ecological studies on a major tributary of the Chesapeake Bay.
The Institution’s nonappropriated trust fund revenues totaled $99,646,000 in fiscal year 1981, while net revenues available for support of Institutional programs, after exclusion of expenses necessary to generate auxiliary and bureau activity revenues, totaled $23,722,000. Displayed in Tables 2, 4, and 5 are the bureaux of the Institution utilizing these funds.
Restricted fund revenues, which may only be used for specific purposes, were $6,378,000 for the year, made up of $2,978,000 from gifts and grants, $2,591,000 from investment income, and $809,000 from other sources, primarily fund-raising activities at the Archives of American Art and sales desk activities at the Freer Gallery of
Financial Report / 37

<<<Page: 49>>>

Taste 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds Year Ended September 30, 1981
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (In $1,000’s)
Federal
Funds funds
Federal Appropriations ........ 122,478 Investment Income ........... — Grants and Contracts ......... — Gifts 2 as os5c, pate oeieenome ciate eerie _ Sales and Revenue ............ — @thers ses, yaw Oreos — Totals Providedeaas-rac ic 122,478 Total Available ~~... $122,478 FUNDS APPLIED Science: Assistant Secretary ........... $ 328 Natl. Mus. of Nat. History .... 15,677 Astrophysical Observatory .... 5,370 Less Overhead Recovery ..... — Tropical Research Inst. ........ 2,773 Radiation Biology Lab. ........ 1,999 Natl. Air & Space Museum .... 6,152 Chesapeake Bay Center ....... 869 Natl: ZoologicaljParks 32... m 9,221 Center for Study of Man ...... 603 Fort\Pierce Bureau ssa. ..-+> + oo ihotal@Sctencessreee ee 42,992 History and Art: Assistant Secretary ........... 351 Natl. Mus. Am. History ....... 8,072 Natl. Mus. American Art ...... 3,557 Natl’ Portrait) (Gallery 3. ..--) «2,613 Elinshhornvinsetimese es ciiee 2,431 Freer Gallery of Art .......... 727, Archives of American Art ..... 542 Cooper-Hewitt Museum ....... 702 Natl. Mus. of African Art. .... 621 Total History and Art .. 19,616 Public Service: Assistant Secretary ........... 184 Reception) Genter scsi. eer) -1 20 Telecommunications .......... 55 Anacostia Museum ........... 529 Intl. Exchange Service ......... 346 Performing vArtsiyiretersereieiei 387 Smithsonian Press: ese ee « 847
Exposition Books
Total Public Service ....
Unrestricted Restricted Total AuxSpeGrants
noniliary _cial and federal GenactivpurGenconfunds eral ities pose eral tracts — $ 19,571 $ 5,001 $ — $ 9,895 $ 4,574 $ 101 6,303 3,123 — 589 2,091. —_ 14,172 —_ _— —_ — 14,172 4,421 IS) 1,329 99 2,978 —_ 87,052 — 83,719 Saas —_— —_— 1,870 is}e) — 1,006 809 _— 113,818 3,193 85,048 5,027 6,378 14,172 $133,389 $ 8,194 $85,048 $14,922 $10,952 $14,273 $ 366 $ 28 $ — $ 11 $ 140°%$) J 187 2,539 206 —_ 680 oon Ll22 14,416 2,479 — 432, 101 11,404 (2,470) (2,470) = — = = 339 59 — 202 78 —_ 169 _ —_ 98 13 58 2,001 14 — 1,765 109 113 522 83 —_— 141 34 264 416 21 — 118 28 249 18 —_ —_ — 18 _ 389 — — — 389 —_ 18,705 420 — 3,447 ade Siaaes i5l/ 86 — 17 il 13 974 96 — 647 250 —_ 422 207 —_ 149 34 32 378 36 —_ 44 297 1 alpalle yé 26 —_ 677 494 _— 1,296 10 —_— 45 1,241 —_— 451 al — 3 447 —_ 1,464 364 —_ 788 287 25 420 163 —_ 170 83 4 6,719 989 — 2,540 3,115 75 1 1 =“ = a 395 395 = = = = 305 237 atl 68 = = 48 26 = 20 2 = 4,813 = | 4561 114 130 8 2,146 22 OGL = 55 — 4,725 — 4,725 == = se 12,433 659) L377, 202 187 8
2,368
Nonfederal Funds

<<<Page: 50>>>

Taste 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued Year Ended September 30, 1981
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (In $1,000’s)
Unrestricted Restricted Total AuxSpeGrants Fednoniliary cial and eral federal GenactivpurGenconFunds funds funds eral ities pose eral tracts Museum Programs: Assistant Secretary .......... 747 149 45 — 25 18 61 RG OUSEN ARIE Fol AS a0) sf'sc0ile inne, sieges 6/8 126 — —_ — — -— -Conserv. Analytical Lab. ..... 788 2 — — 2 — — MD RARE S MAS iors srars Sisto wets 2,976 217 207 == = 10 = Ebi bitsMr see. ds cites. Yeas ib els 14 —_ — 14 — — Traveling Exhib. Service ..... 192 1,491 — iLiéé 55 244 26 ASCHIVESIMEver Ia. shia sume wieeiots 430 44 43 — iL — — National Museum Act ....... 795 -— — -— — Total Museum Programs. 7,366 1,917 295 1,166 97 272 87 Special Programs: Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. ... 534 793 540 — 51 17 185 Intl. Environmental Pgm. ..... 468 — a — — — — Academic & Educational Pgm. . 562 856 129 — 691 36 — Collections Mgt./Inventory .... 587 _— — — — — — Major Exhibition Program .... 739 — oa — — — — Museum Support Center ..... 2,767 —— — _— — — — Total Special Programs .. 5,657 1,649 669 -742 53 185 ——————y en Associate Programs ......... — 44,533 260 44,219 : 13 alll 30 Business Management ....... — 16,769 — 16,769 — = = Administration: Mun. 66:05 es 8,718 5,888 5,365 148 96 193 86 Less Overhead Recovery .... — (5,014) (5,014) — — — — Faetlities Services ...........35,512 989 1,014 a (48) 23 — Transfers Out/(In): ‘TSASRUAYA “SS ee chee OE Creer re ae 64* — — — — — a Goll Acq) ScholSt., ©utrch. .. — — 2,000 — (2,000) — — Liability Reserves ........... — — 230 — (230) — — Net Auxiliary Activities ...... — — (10,979) 10,979 — — — Other Designated Purposes .... — — 2,196 390 (2,589) 3 — MMMM Tet as rose oats eee es — 2550" ~2;526 — 24 — — EMOOWMENE 65 sicjars vi bende 5 — 2,658. 2,521 —29 108 — Motalwinansters) =o. 4042 64 5,208 (1,506) 11,369 (4,766) Ta — Total Funds Applied .... $122,293 $109,796 $ 3,151 $85,048 $ 2,323 $ 5,406 $13,868 FUND BALANCES 9/30/81 .... $ 185** $ 23,593 $ 5,043 $ — $12,599 $ 5,546 $ 405
Nonfederal Funds
*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury. **Funds available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.

<<<Page: 51>>>

Taste 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (In $1,000’s)
Federal Agencies FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981 Departmentiof Defensels as aeceeoe ose $ 1,079 $ 1,078 $ 703 Department of iEnengy nyse acer cin 304 340 407 Department of Health and Human Services 288 280 283 Department of Interiom see are oe 65 197 244 National Aeronautics and Space
Administrations eee eee oe ee 8,919 9,832 10,663
National Endowments for the Arts and Jahoboqkebquileteti meng tcions etoeska Guaec eRD orcte che RevCRRE 105 118 57 National Science Foundation** .......... 385 651 784 Other koi as ce Me Hn oe cas 345 386 727 Totaly arson cee ee eats hse ete sient $11,490 $12,882 $13,868
*Includes $583 (FY 1979), $554 (FY 1980), and $813 (FY 1981) in subcontracts from other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA.
**Includes $112 (FY 1980), and $208 (FY 1981) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.
Art. Endowment income, as detailed more fully below, provides funding to the Fort Pierce Bureau for research in oceanography, major operating support to the Freer Gallery of Art, as well as a number of other specific research projects at the Institution. Significant gifts were received during the year for exhibitions of the National Museum of American History, the National Museum of Natural History, the National Portrait Gallery, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Major collection acquisition support was received by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and the National Museum of American Art, which also obtained a large grant for collections conservation.
Unrestricted Special Purpose funds are comprised of bureau activity revenues, such as the membership and educational programs at the National Museum of African Art and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, sales shops at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the National Air and Space Museum (NaAsm), and the theaters at NASM; investment income earned on bureau fund balances; shared revenues for those bureaux housing centrally run concession and museum shop activities; and continuing allocations of funds for fellowship awards ($948,000), the Regents’ Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies,
40 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 52>>>

Taste 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds*
Fiscal Years 1979-1981 (In $1,000’s)
Net Fund Trans-_ inbalTotal fers crease ance InvestrevDeducin (deend of Item ment Gifts Misc. enue tions (out) crease) year fav et979— otal: . .\. 2022 os ws $2,075 $1,775 $ 727 $4,577 $3,983 $ (345) $ 249 $4,864 EY t980—Total ........... $2,349 $2,257 $ 733 $5,339 $4,856 $ (773) $ (290) $4,574 FY 1981: National Museum of NaturalvHistory .. 5. +... ¢ 189 $ 440 $ (4) $625 $530 -§. I3an$ 0007 $1576 Astrophysical @bservatory \4: 2s sein). 4 13 130 (30) 113 101 (3) 9 20 Tropical Research LEDS To ee 20 SV 10 87 78 — 9 65 National Air and Space Museum ...5..... 60 4 -64 109 <2) (57) 90 Chesapeake Bay Center .... GT: — — 11 34 — (23) 82 Fort Pierce Bureau ........ 761 —_ _761 389 -— 372 813 DEVEL OCICNCe «2. .6260-2 6s 220 149 84 453 199 (79) W715 530 National Museum of American History ....... 59 294 4 357 Doll — 126 458 National Museum of PIMETICAN ATE 25 << 26 2s! 63 254 3 320 34 — 286 341 National Portrait Gallery .. 42 82 (3) 121 297 -(176) 233 Hirshhorn Museum ....... 39 235 —— 274 494 sos (220) 280 Freer Gallery of Art ....... 910 32 476 1,418 1,241 = AZ. 810 Archives of PRIMEEIGAN UATE 2)... 5 se = 28 210 DAD; 450 447 — 3 DTA Cooper-Hewitt Museum ... 36 253 55 344 287 — 57 313 National Museum of Wirican Art ......)....: 7, 11 1 14 83 = (69) 4 Traveling Exhibition PTEMAUNC OME, fee iov.c nic tds 2,5 ses 25 224 — 249 244 —_ 5 154 EMUIM@then ta. ss oes se ees 113 603 1 717 496 (30) 191 506 Motal FY 198i s..5.. $2,591 $2,978 $ 809 $6,378 $5,295 $ (111) $ 972 $5,546
*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.

<<<Page: 53>>>

Taste 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Year 1981
(In $1,000’s)
Revenue
Bureau activities
$2,039
Gifts
and other
revenue
Total
Transfers in (out)
$3,707
Obligations
National Museum of Natural History
Astrophysical Observatory .. 6
Tropical Research Institute
National Air and Space Museum
Chesapeake Bay Center
National Zoological Park
Other Science ...
National Museum of American History
National Museum of American Art
National Portrait Gallery 4
Hirshhorn Museum
Freer Gallery of Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
National Museum of African Art
Liability Reserves
Unallocated Coll. Acq., Schol. St. and Outreach .
Fellowships
Museum Support Center Equip. .
Other
66 2,528 43 362 51
Deductions BuNet Proreau ingram activcrease exityex(depense pense crease)
$3,262 $1,436 $ 1,963 $7,361 $1,813 $ (1,672) $ 680 $§ — § 68 320 112 204 140 62 22 498 1,267 398 118 23 10 118 —_— 296 109 _— ol 596 51 (172) 146 3 86 36 8 33 677 —_ 26 45 _— 4 304 484 9 (5) 175 (48) = — 230 _— —_ (232) 630 —_— 66 — _— 750 432 60 902
Fund balance
end of
year
$ 334 534
90 2,838 25 1,295 148
1,764

<<<Page: 54>>>

and Educational Outreach programs ($2 million per year), as well as funds provided for other designated purposes.
Unrestricted General Purpose funds revenue, which is available for general Institutional purposes, is derived primarily from investment income and auxiliary activity net revenues. As displayed in Table 6, net general unrestricted funds, after deduction of auxiliary activity expenses, totaled $14,562,000 in fiscal year 1981, a somewhat better result than the prior year. This improved performance was due to the higher interest rates during the year, which benefited the short-term investments of the Institution, and to the auxiliary activities. These activities are listed in Table 7, and as may be seen therein, the Smithsonian Associates programs, including the Smithsonian magazine, generate the majority of the revenues on both a gross and net basis. The magazine continued to enjoy widespread acceptance, increasing once again the number of subscribing National Associates; the Contributing Associates program, providing unrestricted gift support to the Institution, also showed modest growth.
Important educational products and public services are provided as well by the other auxiliary activities, such as the Smithsonian Institution Press, Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, and the Smithsonian Exposition Books. On an overall basis, these other activities provided a financial return to the Institution at approximately the same rate as in fiscal year 1980.
The growth in unrestricted funds allowed continued support for a number of administrative and programmatic activities as well as some contributions towards new endeavors and facilities development. Activities receiving major operating support include the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center, the Folklife Program, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and the Office of Telecommunications, while smaller amounts for specific programs were allotted to numerous other units. Special emphasis was placed on affirmative action efforts with funding allotted for the establishment of a cooperative education program. In addition to the operating support provided the Office of Telecommunications, an amount of $500,000 was set aside in fiscal year 1981 for future exploration of potential television production by the Institution. Special funding was also provided for the major exhibition, 5,000 Years of Korean Art, in
Financial Report / 43

<<<Page: 55>>>

Tas_e 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1979-1981 (In $1,000’s)
Item FY 1979 EY 19605 FY¥eagea FUNDS PROVIDED
General Income:
Inger aoaveinquch A craela is bis Bic a's Gicia certs BicRBIG Otc $ 2,276 $ 2,470 $ 3,123 Giftswrers tara ce uete ein cies icntre oa 163 14 LS IMiscellancotsa ters eieine cece emir 40 140 55 jotalaGeneraleincome.s25-. oo. ee 2,479 2,624 3,193 Auxiliary Activities Income (Net): INSSOCIALeS ia nee el oi sriite eects, “Va ot eters 6,429 6,113 8,691 Business Management —-Museum! Shops % acs. eaor oe le 287 1,022 631 —Concessions and Parking ......... 1,641 1,938 1,978 SEI FE NS et oh icicle cota ays si avel dimen wionapa: mua ORS > (245) (191) (251) Performa -Atts) hiss 2 pars «56 als eles ote 177 (75) (186) Smithsonian eresse vee sence ietanie 292 252 231 EXPOSiE1ON! IBOQKS (foi) aiaa Se alsin strains aye et 1,036 305 536 Praveling, EXMIDItiONS ...c1m« «sec cee = (142) (268) (226) PHOtOVSEFVICES st cece cere ae eeeee tee ott (275) (115) (35) Total Auxiliary Activities ......... 9,200 8,981 11,369 Total Funds Provided (Net) ....... 11,679 11,605 14,562 EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS Administrative and Program Expense ..... 9,231 10,535 12,141 Less Administrative Recovery ............ 5,888 6,575 7 A484 IN Gt vEXPpense 5 criercicicjsusnusiane eva, eoretens 3,343 3,960 4,657
Less Transfers: To Special Purpose
for Programyburposesy sme ioe sare 3,879 4,307 4,816
Mone lantibundsiesy ns sce koe ene ce 1,853 1,281 2,526 ToEndowment Funds 24... cess ee eel Alay 2,021 2,521 NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE .. 33 36 42 ENDING EUND BALANCER poe e ooo. $ 4,965 $ 5,001 $ 5,043
44 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 56>>>

Taste 7. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1979-1981 (In $1,000’s)
Sales and Less Net other cost Gross revreveof revExenue*** Activity nue Gifts sales enue penses (loss) TEN SRS )72 FC bs eee ee $64,846 $ 475 $31,884 $33,437 $24,237 $ 9,200 NMA SO prs cect dae cncsee cas $72,203 $ 898 $41,569 $31,532 $22,551 $ 8,981 FY 1981: PASSOGIALES suet ci-palsrg ioe oes ae $51,581 $1,329 $34,551 $18,359 $ 9,668 $ 8,691 Business Management: —Museum Shops* ..... 16,074 — 8,335 F739 7,108 631 —Concessions/Parking . 2,682 — S5ne2 047, 669 ~=1,978 —SO}i Yoriko OE ee ee Syl — — 371 622 (251) Rertorming “Arts (0). /f)5..5%: 4,375 — aS 3,262 3,448 (186) Smithsonian Press ....... 2,322 — 688 1,634 17403 231 Exposition Books ........ 5,261 — 1,101 4,160 3,624 536 Traveling Exhibitions .... 940 _ = 940 1,166 (226) Photo Services (Administration) ...... 113 — 43 70 105 (35) WotalieY WSs...) $83,719 $1,329 $45,866 $39,182 $27,813 $11,369
ee ,
*Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order. **Includes Business Management Office and Belmont. ***Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaux of $397,000 (FY 1979); $381,000 (FY 1980); and $390,000 (FY 1981).
the new Thomas Mellon Evans Special Exhibits Gallery in the National Museum of Natural History. Transfers to special purpose funds included continuing allotments for the Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs ($2 million), the Fluid Research program of small grants to Smithsonian scientists ($200,000), and the Smithsonian Fellowship program, which provides stipend support to preand post-doctoral fellows ($948,000), as well as a one-time transfer of $750,000 for conservation equipment at the Museum Support Center.
Some $2.5 million was added to the Institution’s unrestricted endowment funds to ensure a stable source of current revenues for future years. As described below, transfers were also made to plant
Financial Report / 45

<<<Page: 57>>>

funds to support facilities development, notably $750,000 towards construction of the Museum Support Center and $1.3 million towards Quadrangle development.
Special Foreign Currency Program
A separate appropriation was received for the Special Foreign Currency Program of $3,650,000 equivalent in excess foreign currencies. These currencies, accumulated from sales of surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 83-480, have been determined by the Treasury Department to be in excess of the normal needs of the United States. Some $2.9 million of this appropriation was used to provide grants to United States institutions for field research and advanced professional training in the countries of Burma, Egypt, India, and Pakistan, in fields of traditional Smithsonian interest and competence. The remaining $750,000 was added to a reserve of Indian rupees, established in fiscal year 1980 to support future programs of the American Institute of Indian Studies after the supply of excess rupees is depleted. Obligation of these funds by research discipline and country is provided in Table 8.
Construction
Funds appropriated for construction and renovation projects at the Institution totaled $15,829,000 in fiscal year 1981, as shown in Table 9. With the support and encouragement of the Congress, the Institution continued to accelerate its efforts to meet the essential renovation needs of a large and complex physical plant. An appropriation of $7,539,000 under the Restoration and Renovation of Buildings account represented a 44 percent increase over the previous year. The funding permitted progress in facade, roof, and terrace repairs; systems and structural modifications to further energy efficiency; renovations to comply with legislative requirements on occupational health and safety as well as the needs of disabled persons; and modification and improvement of existing facilities for
46 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 58>>>

TaB_e 8. Special Foreign Currency Program Fiscal Year 1981—Obligations (In $1,000’s)
System_—‘ Astro-
aticand physics MuGrant environand seum adminArchaemental earth proistra-
Country ology biology sciences grams tion Total Burma soe. 05: $ 620 Sia $ — $ — $ al mi Al empties t sloiacens 286 50 150 41 242 769 Iiraye Fetes eine eee 2,318* 268 24 T75 44 2,829 Pakistan ....... — 84 — _ — 84
Motaluesse 2°624! $ 402 $ 174 $ 216 $ 287 $3,703
*Includes the obligation of $750,000 for a forward-funded reserve for the American Institute of Indian Studies.
Tas_e 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1979-1981 (In $1,000’s)
Sources FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981
FUNDS PROVIDED Federal Appropriations:
National: Zoological harks: asec sae ae $ 3,900 $ 6,250 $ 3,290 Museum) Support Genter .2..5°0.-)... 55. 575 20,600* 5,000 Restoration & Renovation of Buildings .. 2,100 5,250 7,539
Total Federal Appropriations ....... 6,575 32,100 15,829
Nonappropriated Trust Funds: Income—Gift and Other
Cooper-Hewitt Museum .............. — 104 175 Horticulture Greenhouse ............. — = 11 Specialsexhibits Gallenyi sess se see: — _ 307 Wcadrane lamer ccc. sence oem ccn c 5 1,051 2,115 MotalmlncOmenisncccroccstaa ce en. 5 1155 2,608 Transfers from Current Funds:
Chesapeake Bay Center .............. 411 39 300 National Museum of African Art ..... 4 22. 24 Museum Support Center ............. = — 750 As taGardenieans isin chiara. Mem acces 10 241 110 @uaadrangler free ccs se eee ee wins oes 1,385 1,040 1,340 Tropical Research Institute ........... 47 — 26 Motalminanstersi. 0 4a ee ae 1,857 1,342 2,550 Motalaeunds Provided’.....24.. ssa00. ee 42 $ 8,437 $34,597 $20,987
*Obligation authority of $19 million deferred until FY 1981 on instructions from Office of Management and Budget.
Financial Report / 47

<<<Page: 59>>>

program or safety needs. An amount of $3,290,000 was received for renovation and construction of Zoo facilities, including construction of the Monkey Island Exhibit, which is the final project in the development of the Central Area of Rock Creek Park; construction of a small mammal breeding facility and design of hardy bird yards at the Front Royal Conservation and Research Center; and the necessary restoration and renovation work at both Rock Creek and Front Royal. And finally, an additional $5 million was provided for construction of the Museum Support Center. Construction bids received by the Institution for this project exceeded the Institution’s original estimate by some $7 million. This appropriation, together with the $20.6 million appropriated in fiscal year 1980 and $2.5 million committed from the Institution’s nonappropriated trust funds, provides sufficient funding to complete the project as planned.
During the year, nonappropriated trust funds totaling $2,550,000 were transferred from operating accounts to construction and land acquisition, and a further $2,608,000 was received from gifts and investment income. The majority of these funds—$3,455,000—was for Quadrangle development, and a further $775,000 of pledges was received toward the project. Major gifts were also received for construction of the Special Exhibits Gallery in the National Museum of Natural History as well as for renovation work at the CooperHewitt Museum. An amount of $750,000 was allocated to Museum Support Center construction for which, as noted above, the Institution has committed an amount of $2.5 million in nonappropriated trust funds. Transfers also were made for major land acquisition at the Chesapeake Bay Center, mortgage payments on property occupied by the National Museum of African Art, construction of a greenhouse at the Tropical Research Institute in Panama, and additional costs associated with development of the garden area to the east of the Arts and Industries Building.
Endowment and Similar Funds
As of September 30, 1981, the market value of the Smithsonian Endowment Funds was $79,025,000, as compared to $78,390,000 on September 30, 1980. Of this total, $77,972,000 is invested in the
48 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 60>>>

TaBLe 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1981
Book value Market value
ASSETS Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds: Boag ONG EQuivalents: 2. .icc6 06's ci ceies Soe oe os $ 715,006 $ 715,006 [ETE IRE eS ee EM a ir ar a eg ge a 16,029,705 14,849,789 WonvertiblewBonds: J oegestee oo ete aes cake 461,550 560,000 SHOES. ony Se OA, ME ees HE 57,204,501 61,847,366 Mintaleooled VEunGdsiey. « wrchiciticls sere. a clalene 74,410,762 77,972,161 Nonpooled Endowment Funds: INotesmecelVableoeraacince ae oa oe eee wees 35,794 35,794 Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity ........ 1,000,000 1,000,000 ESET SMM es Pr aes k eects Sad or uoucnuares eis 9,769 8,600 SOTO MAOLOCKS aa ery erin ae aayeedi helene sakes es 98 FP re A0o! Total Nonpooled EUNGS Pee eee __ 1,047,562 1,052,494 Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $75,458,324 $79,024,655 FUND BALANCES Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ...... $ 2,808,369 $ 3,480,402 Quasi Endowment ..... _ 28,054,405 _ 27 813,668 Total Unrestricted Purpose ............ 30,862,774 31,294,070 Restricted Purpose: True Endowment ...... 33,513,631 36,216,512 Quasi Endowment ..... _ 11,081,919 11,514,073 MotaleRestrictedtPurpose\. a. 4s. 15. cies 44,595,550 47,730,585 Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $75,458,324 $79,024,655
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund under outside investment management; $1 million is on permanent deposit with the United States Treasury; and the remaining $53,000 is held in miscellaneous securities. As shown in Table 10, restricted endowment funds, the income of which may be used only for purposes specified by the donor, comprise 60 percent of the total, or $47,731,000. The remaining 40 percent, or $31,294,000, are unrestricted endowment funds with the income available for general Institutional purposes. Certain of these unrestricted funds, such as the Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History Endowment at the National Air and Space Museum, have been designated internally for specific purposes, as noted in Table 13, which lists all endowments of the Institution.
Financial Report / 49

<<<Page: 61>>>

Tae 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds (In $1,000’s)
Fund 9/30/77 9/30/78 9/30/79 9/30/80 9/30/81 Unrestricted 5.....$12,525 $18,114 $22,614 $28,384 $30,399 ERECT eta ctcne chs eaeutie 15,410 16,807 18,303 ZO TL 20,472 Other Restricted ... 18,944 22,109 24,639 28,175 27,101
sotalo yawns. $46,879 $57,030 $65,556 $77,330 $77,972
The investment of the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is managed by three outside professional investment advisory firms under the oversight of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer and subject to policy guidelines established by the Board of Regents. At the conclusion of fiscal year 1981, the firms (with their respective portion of the Fund) were Fiduciary Trust Company of New York (50 percent), Batterymarch Financial Management Corp. (31 percent), and Torray Clark & Company (19 percent). During fiscal year 1981, the total rate of return for these funds, as calculated by an independent investment measurement service, was +2.8 percent (including interest and dividend yield as well as market value depreciation), as compared to —3.4 percent for the Dow Jones Industrial Average and —2.7 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Average (both calculated on the same basis). Market values of the major components of this fund for prior years are shown in Table 11, and activity during the past year, in Table 12.
The Smithsonian utilizes the Total Return Income policy which defines total investment return as yield (interest and dividends) plus appreciation, including both realized and unrealized capital gains. A portion of this return is made available for expenditure each year, and the remainder is retained as principal. This total return income payout is determined in advance each year by the Board of Regents based on studies of anticipated interest and dividend yields, the In-
50 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 62>>>

TasLe 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
for Fiscal Year 1981 (In $1,000’s)
Market Intervalue Gifts est in-
Market and and Income crease Market value transdivipaid Sub(devalue Fund 9/30/80 fers dends* out total crease) 9/30/81 Winrestricted .....:.-. $28,384 $ 2,529 $1,611 $ 1,157 $31,367 $ (968) $30,399 ESKERTMIMEY Sis fe <4, tesis)'e,(05/000)'« PAO AT(AL _— 1,164 839 21,096 (624) 20,472 Other Restricted ... 28,175 (760) 1,568 132) 27,65 (Z50)) 27100 TOUR vtattoreere $77,330 $ 1,769 $ 4,343 $ 3,128 $80,314 $ (2,342) $77,972
*Income earned less managers’ fees of $363,000.
stitution’s programmatic needs, inflationary factors, and the fiveyear running average of market values adjusted for capital additions or withdrawals. The income payout rate for fiscal year 1981 to endowments in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund constituted a 10 percent increase over the previous year, and a further increase of 8 percent for restricted endowments has been approved for fiscal year 1982. Even after the income payout of $3,128,000 in fiscal year 1981, $1,215,000 of excess interest and dividend yield was available for reinvestment into endowment principal.
Included in Table 12 as additions to the endowment funds were approximately $2.5 million transferred from unrestricted funds, as mentioned above, and gifts of $116,000. These additions were partially offset by a withdrawal of $976,000 from the Johnson Fund, which, together with the Hunterdon Fund, was formerly described as Endowment Number 3. This withdrawal, representing prior year income that had accumulated in principal, was made to reimburse the Harbor Branch Foundation for support of the Johnson Sea-Link submersible program, and similar funding from the Johnson Fund will be provided in the future.
A full listing of all endowment funds is shown on Table 13. Detail of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund as of September 30, 1981, may be obtained upon request from the Treasurer of the Institution.
Financial Report / 51

<<<Page: 63>>>

TasLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981
Fund
Avery Ee unde fais sjajeelsieie eieinteveters Higbee, Harry, Memorial* .......... jolyela ne siiel 5 uooasececasucenecc Morrow) DwightaVVerce cer ctiteetaenier MirtssintanmeAlired: ap. \.crerreirieieess-esieer Olmsted> HeleniwAe here alee cis(ers +) secures Poore, Lucy T. and George W.* ..... Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ...... SantordsiGeoneer bles i cierestrisiet siserenere Smithsonvp ameseaeer soe Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research (Designated)* ...........
Stibtotaliccecarscconeeicetestanse se UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Forrest Roberts beellaeeeieee cence GeneraljEndowmenttsauece sce cone:
Goddard Robertabive eoce essence HabeliD ratSee sekigere stare toveu shove ia sieve arsenite
Hartal\Gustayus Ee a: a ceveleicrernerereterstone Henry; Garolinetaty.ciweumeeetsanee Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. ....... Heys; Maude Gin. tittacrentsacmre cena ve HMinton,;uG@arrier SUSANU. ielcleleer clic EambertabatlanGaaree scree sat MedinusiGraceiLs ea eeieiyeecn ea Rhees; William! Jones! . 2... 06-0) ose Safford Glaraslouisesseraceeeooeece. Smithsonian Bequest Fund .......... Taggart iGansonveiieasc ce deere oe Abbott, William L. (Designated) ..... Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) ... Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History
(Designated) aon cis ceiecn esses Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) .. Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated)
Subtotal rae rere
Arthur? Jamesilwnate a caceabietientks Baird, Spencer Fullerton ............ Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial ....... Batchelor sEmmapeape. seo miare Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial .... Brown; RolandsiWiae. sactascumcsteteiei tre Gan freldiibredertcle Aca serait seni Gasey,; Thomas Lincolninnc-s4 +e Chamberlain, Frances Lea ........... Cooper Fund for Paleobiology ....... Division of Mammals Curators Fund . DrakelEoundationyem ea ecenclscea care Dykes, Charles, Bequest ............ Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ....... Freer: ‘Charles* i hiceoe ase ek eee Grimm) SergeiiNn, sci: cyise ok crisis seit Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ...
Hamilton: ilames* aca. ceiectestecioecmne acters
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund ..... Hewitt), Sarah Goopen! ceed sees Hitchcock vAllbertio «eee ences Hodgekins@bund?) saecemiecteres etree
Principal Book Market value value
$ §=689,352 $= «113,989 25,024 31,864 72,318 78,587 263,547 312,004 48,746 57,320 1,574 2,001 337,774 444,498 546,178 723,771 2,798 3,348 541,380 541,380 879,678 1,171,640 2,808,369 3,480,402 2,509,445 2,181,148 23,379,368 23,553,292 19,853 172273 500 500 1,170 1,292 2,902 3,188 117,129 127,514 239,183 212,238 61,299 62,010 109,434 113,905 2,362 pystalal 1722) 1,826 108,079 99,134 40,501 37,096 933 1,208 284,473 309,165 2,384 2,584 1,155,986 1,070,774 7,648 8,198 10,034 9,212 28,054,405 27,813,668 $30,862,774 $31,294,070 $ 76,298 $ 101,264 69,700 90,519 54,711 72,566 77,648 75,062 93,459 101,405 62,364 69,595 74,528 111,570 29,922 32,510 53,717 71,251 27,688 27,662 4,103 4,267 383,447 384,778 102,757 111,603 20,733 27,492 18,908,174 20,471,689 73,364 63,979 280,426 261,285 3,277 3,596 753 900 16,524 16,427 97,777 96,965 3,017 4,057 100,000 100,000
Income Unex-
Net pended
income balance $ 4,940 $ —0— 1,423 —0— 10,183 —Oo— 8,037 —0— 2,350 —O0— 82 —0— 18,734 —0— 29,680 —0— 158 —0— 32,483 —0— 48,023 48,979 156,093 48,979 89,442 —0— 880,174 —0— 708 —0— 30 —0— 53 —0— 131 —0— 5,229 —0— 8,703 —0— 2,543 —0— 4,671 —0— 87 —0— 86 —0— 4,065 —0— 601 —0— 49 —0— 12,678 1,424 106 3,285 43,909 51,538 961 4,115 378 776 1,054,604 61,138 $ 1,210,697 $ 110,117 $ £153, 8,854 3,712 8,166 2,976 17,413 3,078 34,158 4,158 18,082 2,854 16,477 4,575 214 isco 1,847 2,922 11,954 1,101 959 175 3,171 15,686 45,832 4,576 21,819 gs Py 11,661 839,484 572,009 656 669 10,714 11,460 195 399 37 261 674 726 3,976 4,253 166 851 6,000 13,073

<<<Page: 64>>>

u Principal | Book Market | Fund value value lalicka, PES WATCHIN LATIG fe cieielctotetscrets cee oes 112,961 126,069 135) BMG doceqgonodse decceeueeaaooor 36,518 48,487 anson, Seward, Trust Fund for | TEETER Besaponcande tno aso bapoagar 7,803,670 8,514,478 Hllogg, Remington, Memorial ............. 58,276 52,513 2 LE. INFAIE? sené6o Berge CML SCD ICI ROO EEOC 6,375 6,628 hdsey, Gage IS aes oeeeoeo oa ect ecoOOr 11,380 10,272 Bxwell, Mary E. ........--.--0esses sees 37,421 49,679 iliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ............ 488 483 SEeIPENCUOWMIENL cian siecle cts icicle ee missle 220,977 223,111 PETE MIPAU NLR ANTD WAGs te. « isso ei oireiesvagensiars le aleve iayns 30,050 30,521 httural History and Conservation .......... 39,872 39,722 Mem edward William ............-s:20s 44,982 56,258 trocelli, Joseph, Memorial ..............-. 14,150 18,844 RUMMPVCLCLISOT MUP ssa eieid crcl ac bie crest ies e615 eienare 53,452 57,105 ue TEC Ap adeesdodde sdeocmecono cada 230,223 303,901 lins, Miriam and William ............... 431,978 506,336 fryock Endowment for Docents ........... 1,516 1,440 BMECOLC CIV oie c.cieis cis aisie aves sicie cere sjarsiels 5,186 4,452 frague ESR! ob Vookao Domo COD pO UpOsomo OD or 3,007,384 3,027,731 SME TD ATNCN fereleye: ace a%s) orc. exersis(eiwine@isiaiels wie 34,482 45,349 re Harold P:, Memorial <.3. 562 sec ccicne ss 317,303 321,329 f-venson, John A., Mycological Library .... 11,495 12,390 jalcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, ) .teGcil OU bo Oto Sng DBRT ar oie arrerare 277,444 315,443 jalcott Research Fund, Botanical MESMEAL ONG ANS are roc eis ta teleeie aid season Se eiahs 109,852 141,144 Senee Erances Brinckle .. 6.0. .0006ss000.+ 1,809 2,385 BE PeeE ALES Let eee acts tatis ros overs She evens eye sisrelenens 33,513,631 36,216,512 ESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI: Bastrong, Edwin James .........000.0.0006,260 6,159 SES ERTT ET MEO LUTE oes iecu oie ai clishase coi olailetavatoyatrorave dats 48,050 41,962 SPV ATP INIA DULAY 6/210 <5)s)ce)s se esc o. 213,564 210,609 METAS EOL SCO.) cicicinis elev vc¥s aicis ies stats ce erste 367,310 364,524 oc Lage. eC as Sead eiemae teen ocae 22,725 24,938 PRIS OLA OTIG ieterare fe clea) cceleen ls sciaisls Sislarait 2,844 2,964 lichenberg, George P. and Caroline ........ 9,714 11,080 finson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. ..... 21,219 23,045 REP ROTO eee ayernic tal terslais azote sev oie 15,690 17,049 Einterdon Endowment ..............-+ee06,956,321 7,417,421 rete, ee EEMIMOLE) 6 os sieves vies orien a 18,687 17,063 MEPL OSES ciel Ue ayes isos ci sitl csaca'ie/ctloya Seite Snails se 208,781 228,556 ieeeAnnette E. and EdithG, .......0 02... 1,040 1,412 merGatherine Walden. ........0..0.-s00008 48,226 52,382 2S, IStaS 1) eee Ane ie ee eA 2,336 2,640 MSMMEPATEITI® RIGS) Gi csric\svctars jones =) se reicts:eselers 22,623 19,773 Sme@ormelia Livingston ..........-0+ 00 c20ss 17,728 19,338 imsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* .... 693,040 648,079 Athbun, Richard, Memorial ............... 25,425 27,707 Sealing Solar Research ........5.0c0000%5. 58,285 59,572 MME SESE ENA IV A igs texts cas avs) arefors lst ©, Susie avers ioral aterase 72,870 66,494 BRECON ATC Pit iss, oe eos ara 50 sia rts) sloians oles 18,510 20,043 MMPPALEIION oea.cciecinewie cease oes xraeie as 1,459,261 1,440,168 nithsonian Agency Account ............... 439,627 430,981 MN CELE AN INE) Sc asie Rois fab Jaros wyeke/ erp Iw: Sie-fove miocare cd syeohe 23,898 26,036 itherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial ........ 307,885 334,078 RPUICO TAN eee valAare aja avee etelesse-aiswaesier 11,081,919 11,514,073
$44,595,550
$47,730,585
$79,024,655
TasLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981—continued
Income
Unex-
Net pended
income balance 5,170 7 ,A92 1,988 17,237 375,889 619,376 2,141 6,459 272 1,471 799 4,209 2,037 10,982 20 20 9,149 124 a 252, 2,705 1,539 —0— 2,307 2,477 Fb i 15,628 Zool 12,182 12,462 266 20,520 21,191 59 94 91 91 122,707 2,317 1,860 25,423 13,170 19,038 508 320 12,762 15,615 5,788 7,657 98 2,945 1,510,240 1,599,627 253 253 72 1,831 8,636 31,556 14,948 —0O— 999 —0— 121 1,008 454 950 945 4,338 699 5,972 308,383 191,781 700 9,219 9,372 19,717 58 328 2,148 4,932 108 1,314 811 853 793 625 26,762 5,145 1,136 17,724 2,443 5,740 PH f Oy Fel) 821 9,172 59,057 160,147 17,059 —O0— 1,068 1,623 13,700 6,666 475,922 489,227
$ 1,986,162
$ 3,196,859
Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
$ 2,088,854
$ 2,198,971
Total Return Income payout; does not include $218,000 of interest income for investment of unexpended in-
come balances

<<<Page: 65>>>

Fund
IN ing) Ail h. Sunbiaoeeada babe doaddoNdo cogs Higbee, Hanryy, Memiorialt isc 1)-ichesiaeicirie lodekins bungie: occrteveeverciarrsia/rrereiereseatetets Morrow) DiwightiVVence ciscsistesteraecnrtercrete ste Mussinan;, Alfred’ 4% .).-stcjttecatete-c 0 craps ste Stareeevace @lmsted’ Atelem-Az) = srsieecmucsecvere ordtouamte orctoveretere Poore;, Lucy, I. and George \W.* a... <6 ee Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ............. Sanford, Georgestie” cect ts iinet rane ore Smithson; JiamMestin cancers cxcternorcieester teers star Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research. (Desiprated) = ertccieetieiariereereier: Subtotal): sictnc cnet tenies ae eee
Forrest: (Robertokeelecccceacs hone eee Generalibndowmenteiecee seen Goddard jRobertabine] lence einer ne eee Habel, Dir) Siee) co meeictosavatetouesevcucl nei avecerevelavotenerees Hart. 'Gusftavus, Bosse aot ontere cere eee Henry, ‘Garoline (jc. isa ais eave anni svertaras Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. .............. Heys; Maude Gigs nee e teciteeiemictotsicte siaameys Hinton), (Gamnie Susan miscicieenuseeiiinciaietae sine Lambert#PaulaiGe ance stench ee nae ee eke Medinits,,Grace Ts. fs 15 sce tstomsensers ahorey ard toi Rhees)) Williammonests> scien cries Safford, iGlaranl:ouise@: 7.306 Gee eee Smithsonian Bequest: Fund... es. seen ecie Taggart, iGansone eye: erie kt oeiehelete neo eteratey ster Abbott, William L. (Designated) ............ Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) .......... Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) .'hii's nastics sarc eee eaten Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) ......... Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) .......
Subtotal’ 45h se oaselet ane ote nee
Total Unrestricted Purpose ...............
Arthur, James (2.8 s.ictioe feds ostier oale ears Baird; ‘Spencer Eullertony ora. Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial... waa deen Batchelorweminanbae acdsee eee Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial ........... Brown; RolandiWayachiacscn eokvcreitebiharc cere Canfield, Frederick “A vas. osncrae sarees Gasey, Thomas: Lincolnysiee does sete Chamberlain, Erancesileatas sc oeeceiioc eae Cooper Fund for Paleobiology .............. Division of Mammals Curators Fund ........ Drake Eoundation™ +. >. cassette Soe ine eters Dykes, Gharles” Bequest}is acing cietictse cterncisiciel Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort .............. Freer, ‘Charles pets nee tae aston tat or tle Grimm, (GergeiiNe seistaceters craereterereteie ors tations Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence .......... Hamilton, James® :\ joc cccionl ee teeta Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ...... Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund ............ Hewitt, Sarah (@ooper trasareierietes/televetorsteicners Flitchcocks Albert) S:s-nieaare ittacinecteeiterrees Hodgkins“Fund*®> Oiiicccte centile a ereciecen ote.
TaBLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981
Principal Income UnexBook Market Net pended value value income balance
89,352 $ 113,989 $ 4,940 $ —0— 25,024 31,864 1,423 —O0— 72,318 78,587 10,183 —O0— 263,547 312,004 8,037 —0— 48,746 57,320 2,350 —O0— 1,574 2,001 82 —0— 337,774 444,498 18,734 —0— 546,178 723,771 29,680 —0— 2,798 3,348 158 —0— 541,380 541,380 32,483 —0— 879,678 1,171,640 48,023 48,979 2,808,369 3,480,402 156,093 48,979 2,509,445 2,181,148 89,442 —O— 23,379,368 23,553,292 880,174 —0— 19,853 V7 270 708 —O— 500 500 30 —0— 1,170 1,292 53 —0— 2,902 3,188 131 0 117,129 127,514 5,229 —0— 239,183 212,238 8,703 —0— 61,299 62,010 2,543 —0— 109,434 113,905 4,671 —O— 2,362 2 LA 87 —O0— aba ei74 1,826 86 —0— 108,079 99,134 4,065 —0— 40,501 37,096 601 —0933 1,208 49 —0— 284,473 309,165 12,678 1,424 2,384 2,584 106 3,285 1,155,986 1,070,774 43,909 51,538 7,648 8,198 961 4,115 10,034 9,212 378 776 28,054,405 1,054,604 61,138
$30,862,774
31,294,070
1,210,697
110,117
76,298 69,700 54,711 77,648 93,459 62,364 74,528 29,922 53,717 27,688
4,103 383,447 102,757
20,733 18,908,174
101,264 90,519 72,566 75,062
101,405 69,595
111,570 32,510
27 ,662 4,267 384,778 111,603 27,492 20,471,689 63,979 261,285 3,596 900 16,427 96,965 4,057 100,000
Qe oON G9 ew aod Ww
Uw OH aun & ©
PNF BN PWN = is seid L QN Qn
oaNON QAunrRN
wi OarF wo 1
8,854 8,166 17,413 34,158 18,082 16,477 214 1,847 11,954 959 3,171 45,832 21,819 11,661 572,009 669 11,460 399 261 726 4,253 851 13,073

<<<Page: 66>>>

TasLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981—continued
Principal Income UnexBook Market Net pended Fund value value income balance ES Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie ................+. 112,961 126,069 5,170 7,492 Hughes, Bruce ......-----+esseeeeeeeeeeeee 36,518 48,487 1,988 17,237 Johnson, Seward, Trust ond for on TOSEERIY Qe SOB Bp Cede SUUmEa ac amecesaan 7,803,670 8,514,478 375,889 619,376 Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ............. 58,276 52,513 2,141 6,459 3 ORGEN 55 260500 000BNS BODO eE SoC Oneoes 6,375 6,628 272 1,471 |. so), (sig bbe” pe Sggbespebecoprorercane 11,380 10,272 799 4,209 oe or. AVETS7 12ers 37,421 49,679 2,037 10,982 Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ............ 488 483 20 20 Mineral Endowment ..........0....eeeeeee220,977 223,111 9,149 124 MMMESIMAU NUIT AGUA «oie. 5) ots eiereisicreisie's oie 0 ns 30,050 30,521 1,252 2,705 Natural History and Conservation .......... 39,872 39,722 1,539 —0— WelsoueEdward William ................... 44,982 56,258 2,307 2,477 Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ................ 14,150 18,844 773 15,628 FRPP MIGOMNOUM ts fo che ces <vieve sc susie ee oae oe 53,452 57,105 2,551 12,182 NNTP ED NIAC Meteors is) -\a 00)» o(oreuslw) 70 \eistaye) ajecooi 230,223 303,901 12,462 266 Rollins, Miriam and William ............... 431,978 506,336 20,520 21,191 Shryock Endowment for Docents ........... 1,516 1,440 59 94 BMMEGGEOICE VV. 6.2 ee eect ete e eevee 5,186 4,452 91 91 Sprague UGG ob tb bac COGS COE Goer ae 3,007,384 3,027,731 122,707 2,317 MRE ATLICN ole) wi-ie os) v!s cies ois nie nies eiiecs 34,482 45,349 1,860 25,423 Stemieriarola’P., Memorial ............-.... 317,303 321,329 13,170 19,038 Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library .... 11,495 12,390 508 320 Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, MEER ARN UTS) 8 yooh, sala as, a) 8 je\/01 sila Losieye\le se 277 444 315,443 12,762 15,615 Walcott Research Fund, eoenical  ) EL DRG > oo Ge OI eee 109,852 141,144 5,788 7,657 Popmeeeerances brinckle .....2...02.0sc0es% 1,809 2,385 98 2,945 AREER SEAL I sev cTies (arot's falc sororay sl ecaven see 33,513,631 36,216,512 1,510,240 1,599,627 RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI: Asnstzone, Edwin James ............-..-.-6,260 6,159 253 253 io (ace? TEST 5a 48,050 41,962 W721 1,831 Beceem meinia PUTAY 5... 062 cece ese stews 213,564 210,609 8,636 31,556 EMME OLE ENE, |< visfe'sie vic cise ss ae esis aa carats 367,310 364,524 14,948 —0— Das: tue, Ear) a 22,725 24,938 999 —0— SEPM OTM Ax 1 tileve oa oclorc diie lewis ole wees s 2,844 2,964 121 1,008 Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline ........ 9,714 11,080 454 950 Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. ..... 21,219 23,045 945 4,338 Hillyer, Virgil 2 oct atric GIONS Fie SIGE EEREIOM Oe on 15,690 17,049 699 5,972 Emerdorn Endowment .......0..000.ses06,956,321 7,417,421 308,383 191,781 Weemetiee, Ro Fenimore ...<.0..0.sceeeee0s 18,687 17,063 700 9,219 (+. oO LDITRS ooo ge eee eee 208,781 228,556 9,372 19,717 Long, meanetteves and Edith G. .. 25.066. 06 am. 1,040 1,412 58 328 Myer, SEPRETING VVALGOM, c!sciene.ciseu oe 206 000s 48,226 52,382 2,148 4,932 MEERA cs cca elec see wccceews 2,336 2,640 108 1,314 Mememeanline Riggs .........c0ccccseseeeas 22,623 19,773 811 853 Eelmeomelia Livingston ...............:... 17,728 19,338 793 625 Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* .... 693,040 648,079 26,762 5,145 Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ............... 25,425 27,707 1,136 17,724 Roebling Solar Research .............0.0005 58,285 59,572 2,443 5,740 co ote) 72,870 66,494 2,727 7,733 BMEEEON ATA Pons oc ose nce ec seeneccees 18,510 20,043 821 9,172 BEMEEMMPATHETION, 000 occs ce seiscvescv ce cases 1,459,261 1,440,168 59,057 160,147 Smithsonian Agency Account ............05439,627 430,981 17,059 —0— Strong, Ma DEP Ne Spr ies) ies arcin « ey dard wistone 23,898 26,036 1,068 1,623 Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial ........ 307,885 334,078 13,700 6,666 OULUSUET ote ee eo 11,081,919 11,514,073 475,922 489,227
prvaheyerarefe vce aa Waterers $44,595,550 $47,730,585 $ 1,986,162 $ 2,088,854 TOTAL ENDOWMENT BUIN DSi aie csaterhaeverctels $75,458,324 $79,024,655 $ 3,196,859 $ 2,198,971
—————— ——<=——— * Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
Ld Total Return Income payout; does not include $218,000 of interest income for investment of unexpended income balances.

<<<Page: 67>>>

Related Organizations
The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. (ssre) has served as a national source for information on research in progress since its founding in 1949. Incorporated by the Smithsonian in 1971 as a nonprofit entity, sstE received funding through an annual contract from the Smithsonian, equal to the appropriation provided the Smithsonian for this purpose. Since fiscal year 1980, appropriations for the exchange have been made to the Department of Commerce in anticipation of the integration of the functions of ssrE into the National Technical Information Service. During this period, the Smithsonian has continued to provide the exchange with administrative and fiscal services on a contract basis. As a result of federal hiring freezes and budgetary reductions, plans for integration have been indefinitely postponed. In view of the substantial financial uncertainty faced by ssie and its effect on the future ability of the exchange to operate in an effective manner, the ss1e Board of Directors resolved that ssre would cease operations no later than October 30, 1981. The database and other physical assets of the exchange are scheduled to be transferred to the Commerce Department, and plans are proceeding to dissolve the corporation.
Reading is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F), associated with the Institution since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedicated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary support is derived from private contributions and a federal contract with the Department of Education to operate the federal Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. Administrative services are provided by the Institution on a contract basis.
The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts were established by Congress within the Institution but are administered by separate boards of trustees. Independent financial reports are prepared by each of these organizations. Office space and fiscal and other administrative and support services are provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars on a reimbursement basis.
The Friends of the National Zoo (FoNz) is an independent, nonprofit corporation working closely with the National Zoological Park. It operates, under contract, a number of beneficial concessions
54 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 68>>>

for the National Zoo; Fonz provided concession and rental fees to the Zoo amounting to approximately $202,000 during calendar year 1980 (FoNz’s fiscal year). In addition, Fonz contributed other important financial and volunteer support to Zoo programs. Financial affairs of this organization are disclosed separately elsewhere in Smithsonian Year 1981.
Accounting and Auditing
The nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution are audited annually by an independent public accounting firm; the report of Coopers & Lybrand is contained in the following pages. Additional reviews are conducted annually on a number of Smithsonian activities by the internal audit staff. Additionally, the Defense Contract Audit Agency conducts an annual audit of grants and contracts received from federal agencies, as well as their allocated administrative costs.
The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents met during the year pursuant to their responsibility, under the bylaws of the Institution, for reviewing the Smithsonian’s accounting systems and internal financial controls; for facilitating communication between the Board of Regents and auditors from the internal audit staff, the independent accounting firm, and the General Accounting Office; and for reviewing operations of the Institution for compliance with approved programs and policies.
Financial Report / 55

<<<Page: 69>>>

Smithsonian \
: dauonal lostitution wie mi
be eee eR aaehice Park Service
5 war) Siete \,
Traditional music, dance, crafts, and demonstrations are presented at the Festival of American Folklife, an annual celebration of the cultural traditions of this country. Supported by a combination of outside gifts and grants, the Institution’s nonappropriated trust funds, and federal appropriations, the Festival reflects the diversity of funding sources for the Institution’s programs. Sampled here, from the 1981 Festival, are dancers whose performances were designed to introduce hearing audiences to concepts of deaf communication (top), and Ojibwa Indians from the Upper Peninsula of Michigan who demonstrated canoe making on the National Mall.

<<<Page: 70>>>

To the Board of Regents Smithsonian Institution
We have examined the balance sheet of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1981 and the related statement of financial activity for the year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We previously examined and reported upon the statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution for the year ended September 30, 1980, totals of which are included in the accompanying financial statements for comparative purposes only.
The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts or other departments, bureaus and programs administered by the Smithsonian Institution under federal appropriations as detailed in Note 2 to the financial statements.
In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended September 30, 1981, referred to above, present fairly the financial position of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1981, and the results of operations and changes in fund balances for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
1800 M Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20036 December 2, 1981
Financial Report / 57

<<<Page: 71>>>

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS Balance Sheet
September 30, 1981 (with comparative totals for September 30, 1980)
Current funds ASSETS: GET RES ONG ete PIMA OLE MEDD ECC MITIIMR EE CUNY ol $ 1,092,016 Investmentsi(Notes)3 and 5)) oe a. se eee ecko eee eee 28,526,435 Receivables(Note’ 4)) | anak oauseeen anes ee ae Meee ee 12,618,660 Interfund: receivables .)5) a5.) sta sore arcs sea ee — Merchandise inventory (Note 1), of). 2%.u.6)-alt ane eee 7,464,010 Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) ................-7,534,919 Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 6) ................. 1,420,486 $58,656,526 LIABILITIES: Accounts payable and accrued expenses ................. $ 8,121,769 Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) . 1,958,329 Interfand« payables! 2.2/3). aie .d siete ccs Goes ¢ ohe t 8,270,529 Deferredreventie, (Note D)) 3.6 bs. cin tae oe e ecites es ae 16,712,953
Total iabilities!*: Scotts ote ee ee eee Oe 35,063,580
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Current: Unrestricted sceneralupunposele oe. ee eine eee ee 5,042,459 Special purpose oc ié.. a3) seo vss e 1 nsies los ai giees eee 12,599,061 Restricted th. 2 bach ule ate stand ao eine Mate Cn ne a Oe 5,951,426 Endowment and similar funds) (Noter5) a een 15 eee oo Riant funds! (NOG) icin. «tno certs locus ire a Total#funds balances i spices sateen ei ere Gece ieee 23,592,946
$58,656,526
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
58/ Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 72>>>

Endowment
and similar
funds Plant funds Total, all funds Totals, 1980
$ 36,625 $ = $ 1,128,641 $ 81,122 74,707,523 —_— 103,233,958 85,693,264 35,794 _— 12,654,454 11,089,622 678,382 7,992,147 8,270,529 4,272,661
—_— —_— 7,464,010 6,244,380
——_ 7,534,919 7,294,999
—_ 14,024,283 15,444,769 14,012,745 $75,458,324 $21,616,430 $155,731,280 $128,688,793 $ — $ 304,763 $ 8,426,532 $ 5,968,872 = — 1,958,329 1,218,910
aS = 8,270,529 4,272,661
= — 16,712,953 17,063,378
_— 304,763 35,368,343 28,523,821
— = 5,042,459 5,000,736
— —_— 12,599,061 9,895,106
— _ 5,951,426 4,675,330 75,458,324 —_ 75,458,324 64,422,312 _ 21,311,667 21,311,667 16,171,488 75,458,324 21,311,667 120,362,937 100,164,972 $75,458,324 $21,616,430 $155,731,280 $128,688,793
Financial Report / 59

<<<Page: 73>>>

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS Statement of Financial Activity
Year ended September 30, 1981
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1980)
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS: Auxiliary activities revenue Federal grants and contracts Investment income (net of $362,585 for management
and custodian fees) Net gain on sale of securities Gifts, bequests and foundation grants Additions to plant fund Rentals, fees, commissions and other
CLatwielaiieis! ailelie je; is o16, (ele) e| sie 'e
wate, 0/0, 80, \e) 6:0) .0n'e' @lleju ei eh seis te) \e\\ele .« iw) Ula te (a lia .e ts) (eles wilelielie (8) «Ve A) io) (8; 0) 0.0 calm ee (a ©|,u)s ai ‘ei fe, a iwi)'e-e \0).u\/s)16]/ patel e)ieile! ie) 'en\n ie
Total revenue and other additions
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS: Research and educational expenditures Administrative expenditures Auxiliary activities expenditures Expenditures for acquisition of plant Retirement of indebtedness Interest on indebtedness Endowment reimbursement (Note 5)
©) ws) (0 O16)(6) @) em) witel ie) erelelekehe ss elvis es) els .8) sie (es) 0) a ies ie aye) lu) e)ie..s/cel/eleh eis’ eie)(u) sie) e\'e\e) els eo} 6) (ele ei laie (ela elye' sie) 6 )\01/@) |e, =)\n\ «(6 1a! fe
a je iseele @ = si sheln
Total expenditures and other deductions ..
Excess of revenue and other additions over (under) expenditures and other deductions
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) : Mandatory principal and interest on notes Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) . Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund. Future plant acquisitions Income added to endowment principal Appropriated as quasi endowment For designated purposes Net increase in auxiliary activities
ui lel u (p) a) Je) e001 ‘el le) @ [s) |= /6Je\\6. eels .0 (6
Total transfers among funds
Net increase for the year Fund balances at beginning of year
ajje\} Sie. =ihe] 6)\/6:/'8i)e val cwie,
Fund balances at end of year
Total current
funds
$ 87,052,047
14,171,827
7,517,027
4,420,917
2,540,536 115,702,354
23,912,377 9,095,394 72,650,533
105,258,304
10,444,050
(23,970) (1,214,397) (242,598) (2,243,524) (107,988) (2,549,799) (40,000)
(6,422,276)
4,021,774
Total
unrestricted
funds
$87,052,047
4,165,614
1,442,526
1,731,527 94,391,714
7,712,912 5,731,672 72,650,533
86,095,117
8,296,597
(23,970) (454,289) (242,598)
(2,243,524) (2,549,799) (36,739)
(5,550,919)
2,745,678
14,895,842
Current fund
Unrestrict 5 d
Gener, al purpose
(413,664) (242,598) (2,243,524) (2,521,053) (4,465,160) 10,978,755
1,092,756
41,723 5,000,736
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
60 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 74>>>

Endowment
Auxiliary Special and similar Totals, Totals, activities purpose’ Restricted funds Plant funds all funds 1980 33,719,087 $ 3,332,960 $ = — $ — $ 87,052,047 $ 74,251,010
— noe 14,171,827 — —_ 14,171,827 12,946,943
— 629,497 3,001,413 — 638,992 8,156,019 6,407,402
— — —— 8,052,520 —_ 8,052,520 1,999,209 1,328,593 98,785 2,978,391 87,497 1,969,038 6,477 452 4,379,096 — —— — — 1,486,583 1,486,583 665,896
— 1,006,446 809,009 — —_ 2,540,536 2,220,072, 35,047,680 5,067,688 21,310,640 8,140,017 4,094,613 127,936,984 102,875,228 a 4,666,626 15,799,465 — = ZS, ON 2S 7. 24,472,580 2,966,312 484,267 3,363,722 a = 9,095,394 8,077,438 (05712531 1,938,002 — — — 72,650,533 63,079,852 —— —_ — 1,480,557 1,480,557 623,691
— — — — 6,026 6,026 42,205
== — — 17,943 17,943 19,166
— — — 976,189 — 976,189 — 73,678,843 7,088,895 19,163,187 976,189 1,504,526 107,739,019 96,314,932 11,368,837 (2,021,207) 2,147,453 7 163,828 2,590,087 20,197,965 6,560,296 _ (23,970) aes = 23,970 _ =
_ (40,625) (760,108) 1,214,397 a =m Aah
—_— — —_— —_ 242,598 — —
— aa _ —— 2,243,524 — —
= = (107,988) 107,988 = ae =
— (28,746) — 2,949,799 —— — (390,082) 4,818,503 (3,261) ae 40,000 ae = 10,978,755) — — —— — — 11,368,837) 4,725,162 (871,357) 3,872,184 2,550,092 — — —_ 2,703,955 1,276,096 11,036,012 5,140,179 20,197,965 6,560,296
— 9,895,106 4,675,330 64,422,312 16,171,488 100,164,972 93,604,676
ooo eee
Financial Report / 61

<<<Page: 75>>>

Statement of Financial Activity Year ended September 30, 1981 (with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1980)
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS: Auxiliary activities revenue Federal crantseandacontractsinns.ae tee ci eee Investment income (net of $362,585 for management
and custodian fees) Net gain on sale of securities .................. Gifts, bequests and foundation grants ........... Additions tomplantecunde remanence ria Rentals, fees, commissions and other ...........
Total revenue and other additions ........
Research and educational expenditures .......... Administrative expenditures .................... Auxiliary activities expenditures ................ Expenditures for acquisition of plant ............ Retirement of) indebtedness -aqecca--c ear Interest on indebtedness Endowment reimbursement (Note 5)
Total expenditures and other deductions
Excess of revenue and other additions over (under) expenditures and other deductions
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS): Mandatory principal and interest on notes ....... Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) . Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund. Euturesplantjacquisitionsm nee cine Income added to endowment principal .......... Appropriated as quasi endowment .............. For designated purposes Net increase in auxiliary activities ..............
Total transfers among funds .............
Net ancrease forthe wean sconce se ccceioe Fund balances at beginning of year .............
Fund balances at end\of year 7.5.0. a5.4c «se
60 / Smithsonian Year 1981
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Total current
funds
$ 87,052,047
14,171,827
7,917,027
4,420,917
2,540,536
115,702,354
23,512,377 9,095,394 72,650,533
105,258,304
10,444,050
oF FN
_— oOOoON oN! 0
Total unrestricted
funds
$87,052,047
4,165,614 1,442,526
L 7 3Ajo2e 94,391,714
7 112,902, 5,731,672 72,650,533
86,095,117
8,296,597
(23,970) (454,289) (242,598)
(2,243,524)
(2,549,799)
(36,739)
$17,641,520
Current fund. —
Unrestricte: a,
Genera
purpose ——
3,536,117 =
15,148
3,046,286 b 2,281,093 j
5,327 ,379
(1,051,033
(413,664 (242,598 (2,243,524 (2,521,053 (4,465,160 10,978,755
1,092,756 i
41,723 5,000,736
$ 5,042,459

<<<Page: 76>>>

Endowment
Auxiliary Special and similar Totals, Totals, activities purpose’ Restricted funds Plant funds all funds 1980 $83,719,087 $ 3,332,960 $ — §$ — $ — $ 87,052,047 $ 74,251,010
— — 14,171,827 — —14,171,827 12,946,943
—629,497 Syoolals — 638,992 8,156,019 6,407,402
— — “= 8,052,520 — 8,052,520 1,999,209 1,328,593 98,785 2,978,391 87,497 1,969,038 6,477 452 4,379,096 — — — — 1,486,583 1,486,583 665,896
— 1,006,446 809,009 — — 2,540,536 2,225,672 85,047,680 5,067,688 21,310,640 8,140,017 4,094,613 127,936,984 102,875,228 — 4,666,626 15,799,465 —— — ZS OUA oT 24,472,580 2,966,312 484,267 SoCo 722, a — 9,095,394 8,077,438 70,712,531 1,938,002 — — — 72,650,533 63,079,852 — —_— — — 1,480,557 1,480,557 623,691
-— — — — 6,026 6,026 42,205
= — -—— — 17,943 17,943 19,166
— — — 976,189 = 976,189 — 73,678,843 7,088,895 19,163,187 976,189 1,504,526 107,739,019 96,314,932 11,368,837 (2,021,207) 2,147,453 7,163,828 2,590,087 20,197,965 6,560,296 — (23,970) — — 23,970 — —-
— (40,625) (760,108) 1,214,397 — — —
— — — oa 242,598 — —_—
— —— — 2,243,524 — —
— — (107,988) 107,988 — — —
— (28,746) — 2,549,799 — —_ —_ (390,082) 4,818,503 (3,261) — 40,000 — _— (10,978,755) =e aa = a —_ a (11,368,837) 4,725,162 (871,357) 3,872,184 2,550,092 — == — 2,703,955 1,276,096 11,036,012 5,140,179 20,197,965 6,560,296
— 9,895,106 4,675,330 64,422,312 16,171,488 100,164,972 93,604,676
$ — $12,599,061 $ 5,951,426 $75,458,324 $21,311,667 $120,362,937 $100,164,972
eee eee LL —— ee
Financial Report / 61

<<<Page: 77>>>

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS Notes to Financial Statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of presentation. The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution— Trust Funds (Institution) have been prepared on the accrual basis.
Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the Institution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting. This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classified for accounting and reporting purposes into funds established according to their nature and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying financial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded and reported by fund group.
The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are reported in selfbalancing fund groups as follows:
Current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, represent the portion of expendable funds that is available for support of Institution operations. Separate subfund groups of current unrestricted funds have been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activities (representing primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smithsonian Associates Program, including the Smithsonian Magazine, and museum shop sales) and for special purposes (representing internally segregated funds for certain designated purposes). Amounts restricted by the donor for specific purposes are also segregated from other current funds.
Endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restrictions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment and similar funds are gifts which will allow the expenditure of principal but only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds. Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.
Plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisitions and funds expended for plant.
62 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 78>>>

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other disposition of investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar manner, except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar funds, which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds.
Inventories. Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost, computed on a first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value.
Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian Magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription, which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian Magazine are charged against income over the period of the subscription.
The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.
Works of art, living or other specimens. In accordance with the practice generally followed by museums, works of art and living or other specimens are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.
Property and equipment. Capital improvements and equipment purchased with Trust Funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized in the current unrestricted fund at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of three to ten years. All other capital improvements and equipment purchased with Trust Funds are expensed currently.
Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal values. In accordance with the practice of many museums, depreciation on buildings is not recorded.
Land, buildings, fixtures and equipment which were acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.
Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received.
Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these statements since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.
2. Related activities
The Trust Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from private sources, from federal grants and contracts and from certain business activities related to the operations of the Institution.
Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements, provide major support for the operations and administration of the educational and research programs of the Institution’s many museums, art
Financial Report / 63

<<<Page: 79>>>

galleries and other bureaus, as well as for the maintenance and construction of related buildings and facilities. In addition, land, buildings and other assets acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.
The following federal appropriations were received by the Institution for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1981:
Operating ‘funds. i025. cacidaneesee ts cee eso slate oe a eee $122,478,000 Special fareien, CURTeNCy. program [wie ae 2s « sicceremee eet ee 3,650,000 GonsStrictionehundse sae ee se ee ee etek Be ea nee 15,829,000
$141,957,000
The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several separately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institution facilities occupied, etc., totaled approximately $408,000 for the year ended September 30, 1981. The following summarizes the approximate expenditures of these organizations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1981 as reflected in their individual financial statements and which are not included in the accompanying financial statements of the Institution:
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ................-+$3,400,000 Reading Is" Fundamentals Inc) 3. .s.c5. > | sock ancien $8,900,000 Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars—iTrust VEandsé). 2 se cee ee eee eee $3,200,000
The Institution is continuing to work with the U.S. Department of Commerce to effect a transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange (Exchange) operations to the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Exchange has ceased operations as of October 31, 1981 and is awaiting final approval of fiscal year 1982 appropriations to sustain them in perfecting an orderly liquidation.
3. Investments
Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair market value at date of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1981, investments are composed of the following:
Carrying Market value value Current funds: Gertificatesofidepositys-mea eae aie $ 12,307,814 $ 12,307,814 Commercial jpaperdsccie acer veer ox 2,931,913 2,900,000 Overnight money market account ....... 1,785,000 1,785,000 U.S. government and quasi-government
obligations, (6.2 so,-k Qe crore cites 11,276,081 10,679,338 GZommontstocks. soe eee eee rr 169,280 117,835 Preferredsstocks.n see ean n eee 56,347 41,034
28,526,435 27,831,021
64 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 80>>>

Endowment and similar funds:
Roantovl:S. wlreasuny (97)... sf a es es 1,000,000 1,000,000
U.S. government and quasi-government TISINPAIONS Sido eles 6U dbo oo Do modoE 8,487,773 7,984,259 Beene (DONS. fo ows sek te ec nee 7,959,718 7,434,129 PBGIITIMONEStOC Kaye teins core nin s cece a 55,986,140 60,745,716 PRETEEKERSLOCK ra to ae re eee ore ree 1,273,892 1,109,750 74,707,523 78,273,854
$103,233,958 $106,104,875
Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $134.12, 289,797 units were owned by endowment and 291,564 units were owned by quasiendowment at September 30, 1981.
The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost and market values of the pooled investments:
Market value per Market Cost Net change unit BA OL Yat ©. i ee ois $77,972,161 $74,410,762 $ 3,561,399 $134.12 Beginning of year ....... $77,329,906 $63,371,084 13,958,822 136.08 Decrease in unrealized PIP TANSMRECILIN@ AT ie) 5 fed 0, la/lo ils ei Aleta We she AM elaokes (10,397,423) — meameed Net Sains fOr year 2... 66.56 ee clelele ws eden ae 8,052,520 _ Moralmetichange fOr year. fe. 6. + tse cmie wcities: oie $ (2,344,903) $ (1.96) 4. Receivables Receivables at September 30, 1981 included the following: Current funds Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of allowance form doubtful accounts of $5395769 in! 1981 ..25.-2-.-..--5$ 9,624,382 Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts .......... 626,972 inttecesteand! dividends receivable) .).2).. 25. as0s ec eens pore ce 1,707,940 BUREN OMS EST Ha onc hic roseiaieien ox Co stehedereus clay ofeinon eda fo lalcarevahatel stieansieratuts 659,366 12,618,660 Endowment and similar funds Biaresmreceivable) mace ante sca neon sees entele peace see aie 35,794
Motalevallietind sits siseenccitsr cacpenat voi einrokctera so eis whee Pacey $12,654,454 5. Endowment and similar funds
Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1981 are summarized as follows:
Financial Report / 65

<<<Page: 81>>>

Endowment funds, income available for:
Restricted! purposesy acco s,s is0s)s suse retains ca teva SP ae ae Josh $33,513,631 Unrestricted purposes) .....s.c 12 sheer CeCe OL One 2,808,369 36,322,000
Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for: Restricted: (panpyosesa ssa dlsuek aiae.2 aise sade tert oe. eile 11,081,919 Wnrestricted, purpOsess sisi adtyey ire sors aisioieta, chs tee ee) ole ol oe 28,054,405 39,136,324
Hotal.endowment andisimilarn funds) 5... 42+ 1c) ee $75,458,324
The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment management of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach, the total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to the difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and the amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from the current funds.
In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such factors, as, but not limited to: (1) 442% of the five-year average of the market value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2) current dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scientists and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index; however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation), the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received. The total return factor for 1981 was $5.50 per unit of fund participation. The total return applied for 1981 was $3,128,478.
Endowment reimbursement represents payment of income, which had accumulated in principal of the endowment funds, in accordance with a settlement related to a lawsuit.
6. Property and equipment
At September 30, 1981, property and equipment which has been capitalized (see Note 1) is comprised of the following:
Current funds
Capital improvements irc accion dante eo eee ore $ 1,712,318 Equipmientacetaek tc coined siomeesetecaie ahertovotersic ieee tolerance teen 1,059,153 Leéasehold@improvementsy 2 osc sais ocrocic 3 6c ei eie ene Oe 179,962 Less accumulated depreciation
Abid: AMOTUZATONN 25. foie cchararshaniea dane eo re sree Re eee 1,530,947 1,420,486
Plant funds Landoand buildings ¢.04.54 a-.iews cece eee as: oo ees eee 14,024,283 HOtal)all"funds:...*: (cake See Shines peace see pene $15,444,769
66 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 82>>>

Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the current funds for 1981 was $397,399.
The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1981 includes $7,463,658 of unexpended plant funds.
7. Pension plan
The Institution has a retirement plan in which substantially all employees of the Trust Funds are eligible to participate. Under the plan, both the Institution and employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary which are used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with the employees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1981 was $2,436,155. It is the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued currently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plan.
8. Income taxes
The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal Revenue Service is presently considering a request for technical advice pertaining to whether income derived from several of the Institution’s activities is subject to tax as unrelated business income. If the Institution’s position is upheld, no tax would be imposed on this income.
It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income taxation. The Institution has not yet sought such dual status.
Management believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement of these matters would not have a material effect upon the financial position of the Institution.
Financial Report / 67

<<<Page: 83>>>

In a behind-the-scenes shot of exhibition installation, workers are seen unpacking a bronze Buddhist finial for display in the Evans Gallery at NMNH. The show 5000 Years of Korean Art included gold crowns, Buddhist sculptures, celadon pottery, scroll paintings, and other treasures from Korean museums, universities, and private collections.

<<<Page: 84>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
1 oi gl ll
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
Estuaries include some of the most productive bodies of water in the world. They are exceedingly complex systems because they represent areas where fresh water from the land and salt water from the oceans meet and interact. Scientists from the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (cBceEs) are seeking to understand how fresh water entering the Chesapeake Bay estuary is influnced by the quality of rainfall and the types of land-use patterns found in the bay’s watershed. The site for this work is Rhode River, a tributary to the Chesapeake Bay, located near Annapolis, Maryland. In conjunction with these efforts, education programs of the center are developing methods and materials for improving public understanding of these dynamic and important ecological systems.
The chemical composition and volume of precipitation falling in the Rhode River watershed have been measured by David Correll since 1973 to evaluate the effects of precipitation on the ecosystem. The relative importance of nitrogen loading due to both precipitation and land runoff were evaluated for a five-year period. Yearto-year variations were large, but in an average year the amount of readily available nitrogen entering the estuary was about the same as from precipitation, falling directly upon the water’s surface, and

<<<Page: 85>>>

land runoff from all sources. During the summer and fall, precipitation was the largest source of nitrogen.
Runoff was compared for a one-year period from three small, single land-use watersheds representative of the most abundant land-use types on the watershed (forest, row crops, and cattle pastures). Annual area yields of total phosphorus were over six times as high for row crops as for forest or pastureland. Annual area yields of total nitrogen were twice as high for pasture and five times as high for row crops as for forest. A much higher proportion of this nitrogen from the pasture and cropland was nitrate. Total phosphorus in soil was higher in the pasture and cornfield than in the forest, especially in subsoils, but total soil nitrogen was lower in cropland surface soils than in the forest. Soil nitrate was somewhat lower in the forest, but higher than expected from discharge data.
In continuing studies of the benthic (bottom dwelling) invertebrate communities of the Rhode River estuary, Anson Hines is investigating the seasonal cycles and population dynamics of the twentyfive major species of clams, crustaceans, and worms in the system. The benthic communities undergo an annual cycle with a high peak of recruitment in spring, followed by a rapid decline in summer, and a secondary, minor recruitment in fall. Warming water temperatures in February and March probably stimulate the spring burst of reproductive activity, which results in heavy larval settlement and high densities of up to fifty thousand organisms per square meter. Although all sampling stations exhibited this general cycle, there has been considerable variation in the densities of organisms between locations in the estuary.
The precise timing of the peak densities and declines also varies between locations within a year and between years within a location. Moreover, the species composition of the spring peak of recruitment is highly variable between locations and between years. For example, in 1980, the spring increase at some locations resulted mainly from a massive settlement of a polychaete worm, Scolecolepides viridis, which attained peak densities of over forty-five thousand worms per square meter; whereas, in 1981, the spring increase at other locations resulted in recruitment of high densities
70 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 86>>>

of the amphipod crustacean, Corophium lacustre. At other stations, the recruitment was composed of a more balanced mix of several species. Particular attention is being given to the five species of clams in the estuary. One species, the brackish water clam (Rangia cuneata), showed continued poor recruitment and population decline; while the balthic clam (Macoma balthica) had a very successful settlement of up to forty-five hundred clams per square meter in 1981, but predators consumed most of the juvenile clams during the summer. Other species of clams, including the commercial soft clam (Mya arenaria), maintained more stable populations. Survival of larger clams depends on the timing of their larval recruitment relative to the activity of predators. Clams that settle early in the spring or late in the fall, may have time to grow large enough to burrow below the reach of predatory blue crabs and fish. Stomachs of blue crabs contain large numbers of small clams early in the summer, but few clams late in the summer.
In studies of fish populations of the Rhode River estuary, Hines and Joseph Miklas have documented major declines of several key species. Pickerel, which had an extremely successful year-class in 1980, show a complete year-class failure in 1981, probably as a result of high salinities during a prolonged drought. Record high salinities during the fall of 1980 also apparently prevented the Rhode River population of carp from moving out of a shallow creek and into deep water to spend the winter. About one thousand to five thousand carp were trapped in the creek by the salinity wedge during a prolonged winter cold spell. Nearly 800 carp died in the frozen creek, but large numbers of carp were present in the creek again in the summer of 1981. Populations of yellow and white perch have continued to decline drastically; in 1981, no spawning fish of either species were trapped in the area. Populations of other species of minnows and juvenile fish remain plentiful in the Rhode River estuary, however.
Anson Hines is also studying the evolutionary and ecological inter-relationships of reproduction, growth, and size in the life history strategies of crabs from the east and west coasts of North America. Analysis of patterns of reproductive output in nineteen species from seven families of crabs shows that weight of the egg mass is evolutionarily limited by the volume of the body cavity to about ten percent of the female’s body weight, but that egg size
Science / 71

<<<Page: 87>>>

and number of broods per season are major variables that regulate fecundity. The relationship of egg size to rates of larval development and growth to sexual maturity are being compared in five species of spider crabs that have a wide range in mature size.
The movement of nutrients within the Rhode River ecosystem was studied for a thirteen-month period by David Correll. Organic matter, nitrogen, and phosphorus budgets were calculated among the 2,300 hectares upland watershed dominated by agriculture and secondary successional vegetation, 88 hectares of tidal marshes and mudflats, and the estuarine open water basin. Less organic matter moved out to the estuary (27 tonnes of carbon) than was discharged into the intertidal zone from the watersheds (71 tonnes) and deposited in precipitation (3.4 tonnes). Of the 2.7 tonnes of phosphorus discharged from uplands into the intertidal zone, only 1.9 tonnes moved into the estuary. Generally, high discharges of phosphorus from the watersheds were followed in a week or two by high discharges into the estuary from the intertidal zone. Orthophosphate constituted a significantly lower fraction of the phosphorus that moved into the estuary (38%) than of the phosphorus that was discharged from the watershed (49%). Of the ten tons of nitrogen that were discharged from the watershed into the intertidal zone, only 7.4 tons moved into the estuary. These data indicate overall removal and storage of nutrients from land runoff by the intertidal zone. When land runoff was low, the intertidal zone scavenged nutrients from tidal waters. Only when high runoff occurred due to storms, were some of the stored nutrients flushed from the intertidal zone.
Studies of the factors that affect the penetration of sunlight into the estuary and of the effects of this light upon algae were continued by Maria Faust and David Correll in cooperation with Jack Pierce of the Museum of Natural History and William Klein and Bernard Goldberg of the Radiation Biology Laboratory. Although the spectral distribution of incident light is similar on clear and cloudy days, the attenuation of this light in the water column is much more rapid on clear days. The wave length of maximum intensity and maximum percent penetration for downwelling light shifted between 550 and 600 nanometers in cold weather and between 600 and 650 nanometers in warm weather, especially at times of high turbidity and in the presence of dense
72 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 88>>>

plankton blooms. Attenuation coefficients were also found to have different patterns for clear sky conditions than for heavily overcast days. On clear days, attenuation declined steeply with depth for all spectral bands. On cloudy days, the attenuation coefficient declined with depth in the blue portion of the spectrum, but increased with depth in the red end of the spectrum, while yellow light or total downwelling light were attenuated at a constant rate with depth. Generally, very little light penetrated to a depth of 3 meters. Factors which affected light penetration the most were cloud cover, wave height, suspended mineral particulate concentration, and chlorophyll concentrations. Most of the variability in light penetration could be explained by variations in ten parameters which were measured at five locations, coincident with light measurements each week for a complete year.
Measurements by Maria Faust in controlled growth chambers indicated that a red tide, forming dinoflagellate species Prorocentrum mariae-leboriae, can utilize a wide range of wavelengths of the visible spectrum for growth and pigment synthesis. In the bottom waters, where only faint light of green and red wavelengths is available, the number of P. mariae-leboriae and other species are as numerous as those close to the surface. Studies are in progress to determine the photosynthetic utilization of green to orange radiation by P. mariae-leboriae and the role of such accessory pigments as peridinin and chlorophyll c in this process.
Dennis Whigham, Margaret McWethy, and John O’Neill have completed the first 21/2 years of a study to determine the impact of mosquito ditching on the ecology of Chesapeake Bay brackish wetlands. Extensive ditching produced no deleterious effects on water quality parameters in adjacent estuarine water, and mosquito populations were eliminated from the three experimentally treated areas. Shifts in dominance patterns within the wetland vegetation occurred in response to the ditching, and the changes were related to the depth of the water table that was maintained in the experimental areas. Water tables were maintained near the wetland surface in one treated area, and only minor shifts in vegetation occurred with Spartina patens (saltmarsh hay) becoming the dominant species. Water tables were lower at the two other experimental sites, and vegetation shifted to a dominance of Distichlis spicata (Spike grass) in the first year. Two undesirable shrubby
Science / 73

<<<Page: 89>>>

species—Iva frutescens (Marsh elder) and Baccharis halimifolia (Sea-myrtle)—invaded the two sites during the first year and were the dominant species by the third growing season.
Upland plant ecology projects were continued on long-term studies of plant populations and on successional processes in forested environments. One project focused on gaps produced in the forest canopy by tree-falls. These events create small-scale disturbances that provide sites for species colonization. Dan Higman and Dennis Whigham have been monitoring recruitment, mortality, and growth in several tree-fall gaps in the mature forests at cpces. They have found that several species typical of young forests—Liquidambar styraciflua (Sweet gum) and Liriodendron tulipifera (Tulip poplar)—immediately invade the gaps, but that most do not survive for more than one year. They have also found that the dynamics of invasion and mortality vary in different parts of the gaps. Understory shrubs and small-statured tree species are also important in the dynamics of gap invasion because they have the potential to increase rapidly in number by sprouting or clonal spreading.
The dynamics of early successional environments are being studied by Robert Tabisz and Dennis Whigham. One interesting weed of cultivated fields is Ipomoea hederacea (Morning glory). Ipomoea is almost an obligate species in corn fields and disappears very quickly from fields that are abandoned. At the same time, an enormous seed pool lies buried in the successional fields, insuring that when fallow areas are returned to cultivation, Ipomoea becomes the dominant weed species again. Results of several experiments have shown that Ipomoea is eliminated during the first year after abandonment because it is an inept competitor for nutrients due to a poorly developed root system. Plants that are able to survive during the first year only rarely produce seeds so that few propagules are produced in the first year. Since only seeds on the soil surface will germinate, very few Ipomoea will be present in the second and succeeding years.
Whigham and James Lynch have initiated detailed studies on population dynamics of canopy trees with emphasis on the production and survival of fruits of nut-bearing species. Preliminary
74 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 90>>>

results show that predation levels are very high, and that the success of predators, mainly mice, in finding fruits is dependent upon fruit density.
Lynch has been involved with projects concerning terrestrial animals, particularly insects, birds, and mammals. He and Whigham have recently completed a study of the impact of habitat fragmentation on forest bird communities in six Maryland counties. The results indicate that many bird species, particularly those that migrate to the neotropics during the nonbreeding season, react negatively to reduced forest area, plant diversity and increased isolation. Permanently resident bird species are much less likely to be affected by these factors.
Lynch has continued his long-term studies of the structure and dynamics of ant communities at cpces and comparative sites in Florida and the Caribbean region. This research has attempted to quantify the relative importance of season, time of day, habitat, microhabitat, and food type in ecologically segregating ant species. Additional experiments have been aimed at increasing the understanding of behavioral interactions as mediators of foraging success in ants.
A continuing study by Lynch, Whigham, and Edward Balinsky is documenting the impact of White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on regeneration of forest trees in several study plots. Preliminary results indicate that unusually high-density deer populations found on certain islands in Chesapeake Bay completely suppress tree regeneration, but the more typical densities of deer that occur at csces have relatively little impact on survivorship of forest trees.
Another primary goal of csces is increased understanding of the relationship between people and their environments. In an education context, both research and materials development have been directed towards this end. In one recent example, John Balling, John Falk, and Ruth Aronson collaborated with the education staff and docents of the National Zoological Park (Nzp) to study the effects of various pre-trip programs on student learning and behavior on a single-visit field trip to the park. This eighteenmonth study involved approximately 950 fourth-grade children.
Science / 75

<<<Page: 91>>>

All children were pre-tested well in advance of their trip to the Zoo. One week prior to their field trip, each class of students in the experimental groups received one of nine pre-trip programs especially designed for this study by the education staff at nzp. The major part of the students’ field trip was a highly structured docent-led tour of the aquatic mammals section (Beaver Valley) of the nzp. The tour included discussions of the aquatic adaptations and habitat of the polar bear, California sea lion, gray seal, and river otter. During the tour, observers recorded the behavior of the children. Following the tour, students received two post-tests; one several days later, and one approximately ninety days later to test for longer term retention.
Three distinctly different types of pre-trip material and three different kinds of presentation were factorially crossed for a total of nine separate programs. Using the theory of advanced organizers, one set of pre-trip material included largely cognitive, factual information about the animals the students were to see at the Zoo. Another kit relied heavily on previous research done at CBCES, suggesting that children need some orientation to a novel environment before they can successfully attend to a prescribed task. Therefore, the orientation kit presented information about the appearance of the Zoo and the location of various animals, the bathrooms, eating places, and gift shops, among other things. The final type of material used was based upon zoo educators’ concern that children learn to observe animals carefully, to note similarities and differences in both structure and behavior. Through slides and other tasks, this observation kit emphaized comparative looking and detection of details.
Each type of pre-trip material was presented in the students’ home classroom in one of three ways: by a trained individual from the Zoo who came to the classroom, by the classroom teacher who had previously gone through a workshop explaining the material and the nature of the field trip, and by the classroom teacher who had simply been mailed the materials with instructions for their use. Interest in these three presentation modes derives from the fact that they represent considerably different amounts and types of resource allocation on the part of a zoo (or any other similar informal education institution). Sending a Zoo staff member out to the classroom is expensive, time-consuming, and draws people
76 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 92>>>

away from duties at the park. Running teacher workshops is more efficient, but it still takes considerable staff time. Clearly, mailing materials to teachers places the least demand on the Zoo education staff. However, the overriding concern is the quality of the experience the children have at the Zoo. Only if one of the more intensive techniques produced significantly better results would there be a reason to expand energy and resources on it.
The results completed to date have shown that children can learn a great deal from a trip to the Zoo; there were highly significant gains from preto post-test in all groups who took the trip (and none in the control group that did not take the trip). Further, almost all of what was learned on the trip was retained for at least 90 days, as the decline in test scores after this interval was very slight. Compared to the learning that took place from the trip itself, the effects of the pre-trip programs were relatively small; however, there were some significant results. Overall, the orientation materials had the strongest effect in that all groups receiving the orientation program performed significantly better than controls. Although the cognitive material provided some benefit, it tended to be specific to a subset of items of the test involving conceptual information about aquatic mammals. The observation materials, in general, had little effect. There was also some tendency for the groups who received their pre-trip program from a teacher with workshop experience to score better than the groups whose presentations had been by Zoo personnel or by teachers with no workshop background. The results of this study provide support for the notion that children have a strong need to acquire general knowledge about the environments in which they find themselves. If the environment is relatively novel, this need to attend to the setting will interfere, to some degree, with other tasks imposed upon them by a teacher or docent. However, a pre-trip program that emphasizes environmental or setting information and provides the children with some sense of the place they are to visit can reduce this interference, thereby enhancing achievement of the educational goals of the trip.
Another long-standing research interest at the csces has been environmental influences on human behavior and ways in which human preferences for various landscapes are formed. John Balling and John Falk have been exploring the effects that man’s evolutionary history may have on these preferences. Underlying much of
Science / 77

<<<Page: 93>>>

their work is the hypothesis that human evolution, in large part, took place along or near river courses in the East African savanna. Preferences for natural settings with scattered trees, short grass, and some type of water body may, therefore, reflect an innate preference for the environment in which much of our biological (and psychological) apparatus evolved.
Previous research by Balling and Falk has shown strong preferences by Americans for savanna-like settings. In order to validate these findings in light of evolutionary, rather than cultural, influences, cross-cultural data was required. Falk collected data from two populations of Nigerians living in the rain forest belt of West Africa. These subjects shared very different cultural and environmental experiences than the North American populations sampled. Preliminary analysis of the data shows an overwhelming preference by rural Nigerians for savanna over all other biomes sampled. Evidence for an acclimatization preference for the biome most closely resembling one’s native surroundings also showed up as in the American samples. In this case, rain forest was the second most preferred biome, while deciduous forest was ranked second by midAtlantic Americans. These cross-cultural findings lend strong support to Falk and Balling’s evolutionary basis for landscape preference theory.
The Smithsonian Family Learning Project (sFLP) is a series of written educational materials designed to allow families to explore the ecology of their homes and the science integral to their everyday lives. Under the direction of John Falk, staff members Laurie Greenberg and Jamie Harms are developing a series of learning activities, focused on home-related subjects, for parents and their children to do together at home. To date, activity packets have been developed and tested in five areas: lawn, houseplant, and pet ecology; home energy use; and food science. Each packet includes games, experiments, and creative projects that provide the tools for families to discover the dynamics of these systems in their home environment. In one of the activities, families learn about the role of proteins in different flours by baking bread. In another, they take on the roles of pet owners and other community citizens to solve problems associated with pet ownership.
As new activities are developed, they are trial tested by families in both organized workshops and at home. Through a monthly ac-
78 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 94>>>

tivity mailing, Greenberg and Harms are able to gather evaluative information from over 1,000 families across the country. Families comment that sFtp activities are valuable tools for promoting quality interactions while providing fun and educational experiences for the whole family.
The National Air and Space Museum
The National Air and Space Museum (NasM) has continued its balanced program of research, exhibits, collections management, education and public service, constantly monitoring its resources so that the needs of each of these areas could be properly addressed as conditions changed. In this regard, while the museum’s primary effort has been expanding its research role, it has had to consider the effects of the wear and tear occasioned by the fifty million persons who have visited the building since its opening date, and upon the routine mechanical problems that can be expected with any facility as it ages.
The most evident results of Nasm’s research efforts lie in its publications and exhibits. In the Aeronautics Department, the biennial publication Aircraft Engines in Museums Around the World was completed and distributed. This publication, which is published alternately with its companion volume, Aircraft in Museums Around the World, is widely used internationally, and is a very much sought after publication. The Messerschmitt Me 262: An Arrow to the Future, by Walter J. Boyne, was published jointly with the Smithsonian Institution Press and Jane’s of England; this new publication method opens a wider market for distribution and results in significantly lower unit publication costs. Several other books have been completed in the course of the year, and will be published next year.
The Aeronautics Department has made the preliminary plans for a four-volume history of aviation, which will be completed over the next several years. This is intended to be the definitive history of aviation, and fills a long perceived need in historical research.
The Space Science and Exploration Department devoted much of
Science / 79

<<<Page: 95>>>

its effort to programs for researching and recording the history of space activity. There has been instituted a continuing series of seminars in which visiting and resident scholars delivered talks to staff and guests in the museum. These covered the early development of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the history of meteoritics, cosmic evolution, development of earth-resource monitoring satellites, and early studies of turbulent fluid flow. A department-sponsored “‘proseminar” in May convened more than thirty persons from around the country—nearly the entire field of historians studying space programs—to discuss themes and methods in the history of space studies. A popular symposium titled “Space Science Comes of Age” brought a distinguished panel of twelve space-science pioneers and historians together to discuss the recent history of their field. A volume of essays published in advance under the same title accompanied the public event.
With the aid of Regents Fellow James A. Van Allen, the department helped to establish a special committee of the American Geophysical Union to foster the history of geophysics. Another of the department’s curators will continue this line of research toward a monograph history of cosmic ray studies. Dr. Van Allen completed the bulk of a book on his early involvement in the first scientific investigation in space, which uncovered the intense belts of radiation around the Earth that bear his name. He kindly submitted to fourteen hours of oral history interviewing, which has been transcribed and deposited in the museum’s oral history collection.
Research has increased at the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies (cers) in lunar and planetary photogeology and in terrestrial deserts, due to the addition of data acquired from the Voyager and Landsat spacecraft. Close-up live pictures of Jupiter and Saturn were shown to the public via closed-circuit TV during the Voyager encounters, and copies of the images are being kept in the center’s archives for researchers.
The interpretation of lunar orbital geochemical data, gathered by the Apollo 15 and 16 missions, is continuing as an important element in the analysis of lunar highland samples. As part of a “highlands initiative,” undertaken by Nasa to determine the origin of Apollo 16 samples, research at the center has been instrumental in establishing the extent of lunar nearside and farside rock types.
Several aspects of martian geology were presented at the Third
80 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 96>>>

International Colloquium on Mars. Distinctive terrestrial desert landforms present in the Western Desert of Egypt were compared with analogous features seen in Viking pictures of Mars. These comparisons have resulted in a better understanding of the deposition of sand, erosion of mountains and formation of small surface pits on rocks.
Remote sensing studies of arid lands have concentrated on the spectral analysis of images taken from Earth orbit, and comparisons with laboratory spectra of samples collected in the field. Studies of the reflectance characteristics of rock and sand samples were made in cooperation with several universities, and results are being used to interpret spectral ratios seen in Landsat images of the world’s deserts.
During a trip to Egypt, at the invitation of the late President Anwar Sadat, Farouk El-Baz, Research Director for cers, received the Order of Merit-First Class of the Arab Republic of Egypt. The award was made as a result of Dr. El-Baz’s contributions to space geology.
The numerous publications of the center are listed in Appendix 6.
The Education Services Division (esp) has accomplished programs, projects, and products to serve the general public, the education community (teachers and students), and other museums.
It is an especially helpful adjunct to the curatorial staff. Nearly four thousand tours were given to over seventy-one thousand people. This year the division has formalized a one-year training schedule and evaluation plan for the specialized tour for the National Air and Space Museum and the Paul E. Garber Facility, which now has daily tours.
The Briefing Room, a center for live demonstrations for museum visitors, teacher workshops, professional meetings, curator lecture series, and scheduled docent training sessions, opened in March. The Briefing Room activities result in an increased awareness and curiosity about air and space, not only in the students, but also in the teachers.
Among NAsM’s visitors are those who are disabled and may not be able to experience the total visual and auditory excitement of the galleries and artifacts. The esp has produced captioned thermoforms for the visually impaired which are raised line drawings of fifty artifacts. Audio and print scripts of audio shows used in the
Science / 81

<<<Page: 97>>>

galleries have been prepared for the hearing impaired. Cassette tours of the three most visited galleries are being developed (for visually impaired and physically disabled). These materials are the conduits of information for a specialized audience, who otherwise might not be able to learn, enjoy, or grow in their understanding of the story of flight.
On a national scale, the general public is reached by the Museum’s Regional Resource Program. During the 1980-81 academic year, over seventeen thousand people were offered presentations, lectures, slide shows, and workshops by twenty-eight regional resource persons.
Flight, the filmstrip series, has sold over twelve hundred units and has received awards from the Society of Technical Communication, U.S. Industrial Film Festival, and from the Houston Film Festival. The filmstrips are very well received by teachers and are used for classroom and after-school activities.
The Air & Space magazine, a small quarterly publication for educators, is an outreach of the museum, combining information from many sources for a condensed overview of the history, science, technology, and social impact of selected aviation and space subjects. The circulation list has been updated; the magazine is distributed to over thirteen thousand educators.
The esp has developed a NAsM intern program that offers a specialized opportunity to help graduate and undergraduate students develop an awareness of the museum world as a source of research. The interns are recruited, screened, and placed in a work environment that promotes initiative and a sense of accomplishment for tasks performed for the museum’s and interns’ mutual benefit. Fourteen interns were placed during fiscal year 1981.
The Teacher Resource Center opened in May. This facility makes slides, videotapes, books, pamphlets, posters, charts, and learning kits available for teachers to create customized aerospace units for their classes. These units carry the message of aviation and space science education to a greater audience and eventually enhance the students’ visit to NASM. Teachers from the Washington metropolitan area use the room on an appointment basis; large teacher workshops traveling to the Washington, D.C., area from several states are scheduled on a rotating basis.
The nasm exhibits program was highlighted by the opening on
82 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 98>>>

Aviation artist Keith Ferris’s huge mural for National Air and Space Museum’s new Jet Aviation Gallery, opened for NAsm’s 5th anniversary celebration this year. Among other activities in this museum-wide event was the demonstration on model rocket building (below) which drew young and old alike in universal appeal.

<<<Page: 99>>>

July 1, 1981, of the Jet Aviation Gallery in celebration of the museum’s fifth anniversary. This gallery features four historic jet aircraft, seven pivotal jet engines, and a huge mural by Keith Ferris depicting the seminal jet aircraft of the time. Perhaps the most interesting part of the exhibit is hidden; the Jet Aviation Gallery audio visuals are entirely video-disc. This is probably the first museum so equipped in the world, and the equipment offers substantial improvements in maintenance costs.
The successful launch and flight of Space Shuttle Columbia was celebrated with a new exhibit “America’s Space Truck—Space Shuttle,” which will be updated to reflect progress in the Space Shuttle program.
The Flight and the Arts Gallery featured a collection of photorealist paintings in “Assignment Aviation.” The collection was donated by Stuart M. Speiser and is complemented by actual flight artifacts similar to those in the paintings.
The first balloon to cross the Atlantic, the Double Eagle II, was placed in the Balloons and Airships Gallery in an exhibit commemorating the crossing.
In response to public demand, the Special Aircraft Gallery was redone to feature five famous fighter aircraft. This gallery is used to exhibit recent restorations done at the Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restoration and Storage Facility.
The two max films To Fly and Living Planet continue to attract large audiences, and major work was completed on a third film, which will premiere in July 1982.
One of the least heralded but most important functions of a museum is the intelligent management of its collection. During this year, NASM made substantial progress in several important areas. The inventory is on schedule, and the Atherton Seidell program of placing Nasm’s important photographic collection on video-disc is proceeding well. The collection was increased by the careful selection of some important artifacts, including a long sought Beechcraft D-17 Staggerwing and a Boeing B-17G Flying Fortress.
The museum’s policy of offering selected programs to groups with specific interest in air and space has been considerably expanded, and has been exceptionally well received. A complete program of evening events, ranging from astronomy lectures to specialized film series, has provided almost nightly offerings to an apparently un-
84 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 100>>>

quenchable public thirst for information. These evening programs are reinforced with periodic presentations during the daytime hours in either the Spacearium or Briefing Room, where NAsM curators or special guest lecturers cover topics on a close interpersonal basis with visitors.
National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man
NATIONAL HUMAN STUDIES FILM CENTER (formerly National Anthropological Film Center)
Studies of the Jyapu people in Nepal, currently underway by Dr. Richard Sorenson, Barbara Johnson, Ragpa Dorjee, and Lain Bangdel of the National Human Studies Film Center (NHsFc), offer new insights into alternative forms of industrious productivity.
In the Jyapu communities, work is approached much the same way sports might be approached in Western cultures: considerable mental, physical, and experimental effort are invested in perfecting the “playing technique.” The social enjoyment of joint involvement is a principle reward. A “work ethic,” in the Western sense, is not involved. It is a way of life that has played a crucial role in the emergence of the unique civilizational process of the Kathmandu Valley.
Similar collaborative studies among the Tibetan stock people reveal a unifying social pattern of mutual personal regard and respect in which pleasure is typically derived from feeling out and helping to satisfy the interests and desires of others. This culturally specific behavior patterning starts to take hold during early childhood in an extended family. Analysis of research films reveals that this basic habit of life provides for an unusually harmonious life style—even in the hard, arid environment of barren Himalayan valleys of 12,000 feet in elevation.
This response pattern also provides a basis on which the particularly Tibetan response to Buddhism could develop. Endowed with habits of reciprocal respect and sympathy, Tibetan boys entered monasteries run by people like themselves. Participation in the disciplined approach to life was attractive to them, as individual style
Science / 85

<<<Page: 101>>>

and personal impetus were readily incorporated. With the disciplined objectives of the monasteries remaining receptive and tolerant to individual penchant, continuous behavioral and philosophical growth flourished.
Through another visual-data project, the Nusrc learned that the Canela Indians of Brazil have produced a remarkable social solidarity that has anchored a persisting way of life, but with it was a considerable latitude for individuality. This presented a paradoxical situation. Further analysis of the visual-data records revealed that the style of Canela life imparted to the young children provided a basis for simultaneous expressions of individuality and solidarity.
A different pattern of development pertains among the traditional atoll-dwellers of Micronesia who are also participants in an NHSFC research film inquiry. In this part of the world, respect patterns and cognitive interest would seem to sustain a basically harmonious life amid high population densities. Preliminary studies show that formally hierarchical political structures follow age and lines of extended family parentage. However, in spite of this, community life is expressionally democratic. What happens is that age provides increased experience and knowledge. These are valued by the younger members of the community. The system of respect provides the means to satisfy the inquisitive interests of the young.
Still in its early stages is a collaborative inquiry into the cultural heritage of Papua New Guinea. To date this has concentrated upon an unusually traditional representative of an important but littlestudied region in the upper Sepik watershed. This research film effort in a Mianmin-speaking Melanesian community preceded all other Western contact or acculturation there. Because this community survives in an exceedingly harsh tropical environment, where severe dietary and health conditions even affect the neurophysiological status of the population, it provides a case study of human adaptability under severe conditions. This project includes collaboration with human studies scholars of the Summer Institute of Linguistics and local experts.
During the year the nusrc has continued its program to develop increasingly better visual-data resources for scholarly purposes. A total of 185,486 feet of research film have been worked up as visualdata resources on eleven different cultures from seven Third World nations.
86 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 102>>>

The Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies (rus) is now focusing on a specialized program of studies and exhibitions on the Caribbean region as both source and recipient of new immigrants and immigration, and the human experiences and sociocultural processes that accompany such movements.
During the past fiscal year, res collaborated with the School of Divinity, Howard University, and the Visual Arts Research and Resource Center Relating to the Caribbean/Phelps-Stokes Fund in sponsoring a seminar on “Beliefs, Rituals and Symbols of African Religion—Africa and the Americas;” sponsored an outreach program as its contribution to the Caribbean Segment of the Smithsonian Institution’s Festival of American Folklife activities on the Mall.
The director, Dr. Roy Bryce-Laporte, chaired sessions at the Caribbean Studies Association meetings on “The Haitian Immigrants, Refugees and Boat People,” and “The Presence of the New Caribbean Immigrants” in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, and a panel on “Migration of Third World Immigrants to the U.S.” at the American Political Science Association meetings in New York City. He participated in the National Immigration Consultation in Washington, D.C., and gave presentations at the D.C. Links’ forum on “Global Women’s Issues,” at the Dedicators’ tribute to “Dr. George Westerman,” and at the Coalicion de Panama/Museum of Natural History, both in New York City. He also gave consultations on “Illegal Immigrants in New York City” to the New York Urban League’s Special Task Force.
Dr. Bryce-Laporte was one of the recipients of the Caribbean American Intercultural Organization’s “Tribute to Caribbean Scholars in the United States’”” Award. Also he was among the first recipients of the D.C. Mayor’s Annual Arts Award for his contributions to the Washington community. Two publications of RIES were nominated for the C. Wright Mills Award of the Society for the Study of Social Problems meeting in Toronto.
Science / 87

<<<Page: 103>>>

Nmnu botanist Dr. Mason Hale spent four weeks in snow-free (dry) valleys of the Antarctic collecting unique lichens that live inside rock. Below. NMNuH’s Dr. Dennis Stanford (right) shows Chinese scientists (from left) Hu Chang Kang, Gai Pei, and Li Youheng Anhui a paleo-Indian excavation in Colorado.

<<<Page: 104>>>

National Museum of Natural History
The new Thomas M. Evans Special Exhibition Gallery opened on July 15, 1981, endowing the National Museum of National History (nmNH) with an elegant, versatile, and spacious new first-floor hall.
Designed to accommodate important traveling loan exhibitions and major exhibits organized by the Smithsonian, the gallery is named for Thomas M. Evans, a New York philanthropist whose contribution to the Smithsonian made its construction possible.
Over an eight-month period, workers transformed the first floor foyer hall—which formerly housed an ecology exhibition—into a stylish new gallery with oak floors, a new ceiling and lighting system and a system of fabric-covered adjustable walls. A walled corridor runs the center length of the gallery as a throughway for persons going to and from the museum’s first-to-second-floor escalator, Baird Auditorium, and the Associates Court Dining Room.
The gallery—designed by Elizabeth Miles of the Museum Exhibit Office—has the largest exhibit space of any Smithsonian museum on the Mall: 12,460 square feet.
Size is only one of the gallery’s attributes; equally important is its economy and flexibility. At a minimum of expense it will be possible to accommodate virtually any traveling exhibition, from the largest down to the smallest, with relative ease.
Evans, a long-time friend and supporter of the Smithsonian exhibition, was honored by Secretary Ripley and Museum Director Richard S. Fiske at a dinner held July 14 before the opening of the new gallery’s inaugural exhibit, 5000 Years of Korean Art.
Two spectacular special exhibitions highlighted the 1980-81 season at the NMNH. 5000 Years of Korean Art, (July 15-September 30, 1981) gave the public the opportunity to view gold crowns, Buddhist sculptures, celadon pottery, scroll paintings, and a wealth of other treasures from Korean national museums, universities, and private collections. The most comprehensive display of Korean art ever brought to the United States, the exhibition was organized by the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco in cooperation with the
Science / 89

<<<Page: 105>>>

National Museum of Korea and funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities.
The museum hosted the debut of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service’s ‘Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks,” (May 14~-July 19, 1981). The first major showing of the art of the Mamluk era in the United States, it contained masterworks of metalwork, glass, ceramics, woodwork, ivory, carpets, textiles, and illuminated manuscripts from the thirteenth to the sixteenth centuries.
While stepping up its showings of large and important special exhibitions, the museum is continuing to carry out scheduled modernization of its permanent exhibit halls. In October 1980, a revolutionary new exhibit aquarium housing a living coral reef, opened in the Sea Life Hall.
The exhibit marks the first time it has been possible to keep a large reef community—including the corals—alive and functioning in isolation from the sea. More than three tons of coral rubble and at least two hundred species of plants and animals were transported from the Caribbean for the exhibit. Housed in a three-thousandgallon tank system, this ‘“microcosm” reef community is kept alive by high intensity lights, a wave-generating machine, and a battery of monitoring equipment. The exhibit is equipped with an adjoining laboratory area where research is conducted on the reef system. It is the first time an actual research project has ever been located in a museum exhibit area, providing the public with a unique, firsthand opportunity to see scientists at work.
The reef system is a spinoff of eight years of pioneering field investigations in the Caribbean by museum scientist Dr. Walter H. Adey. The project was constructed with a grant from the National Science Foundation’s Public Understanding of Science Program. Different versions of the coral reef exhibit will be built with Smithsonian and NsF assistance at other museums in the United States.
The museum’s Rotunda Balcony Gallery featured six exhibitions in 1980-81: “Native Flora of Louisiana,” “Photographs of Guatemala,” “Elizabeth Gwillim Bird Paintings,” ‘Pressed on Paper: Fish Rubbings and Nature Prints,” “Galapagos: Born of the Sea,” and “Two Bird Painters in Oregon Territory.”
The Museum’s new first-floor Corridor Gallery opened with a
90 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 106>>>

Housed in a 3,000-gallon tank system at NMNH, the reef community is kept alive by high-intensity lights, a wavegenerating machine, and a battery of monitoring equipment. Below. NMNu’s Dr. Meredith Jones holds a giant tube worm, one of this newly discovered family of deep-sea animals.
on iene cnmentcaesiisigom

<<<Page: 107>>>

display of color nature photographs, ‘Beyond the Ocean, Beneath a Leaf,” by staff member Kjell Sandved.
Other small special shows elsewhere in the museum were: — “Photographic Scenes of Contemporary Egypt;” “Peace Corps 20th — Anniversary Photographs;” “Diplomats in Buckskin,” an exhibit of historic photographs from the Museum’s Anthropological Archives of Indian delegations to Washington, D.C.; “Cycles of Sustenance,” photographs of World Bank sponsored projects to stimulate food production in the Third World; “Reflections on a Fossil Lake,” a collection of fossil plants, fish, birds, insects, and other animals from the Rocky Mountains; a display of ““Contemporary Korean-American Arts;” and an exhibit of John Wesley Powell’s anthropological manuscripts and artifacts.
This year saw the beginning of the five year Chinese/American New World Human Origins Program under the direction of Dr. Dennis Stanford. Funded by the National Geographic Society and the Wenner-Gren Foundation, and involving an interdisciplinary team of American and Chinese scholars, this program is designed to increase understanding of human origins in the New World, as” well as clarify the paleoenvironment and culture history of Asia and North America between one hundred thousand and twelve thousand years ago.
During the summer of 1981, Stanford, with a Chinese archeologist, vertebrate paleontologist, and geologist, participated in excavations at Lamb Springs, a large multi-component archeological site in Colorado, which spans a time period from thirteen thousand years ago to the historic period. The three Chinese scholars visited other paleo-Indian archeological sites and collections in Wyoming, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona.
The second phase of Stanford’s project will take him to China’s Manchurian Plain to investigate Pleistocene terraces of the Sungari River to search for ancient open-air camp sites, kill sites, butchering stations, and quarries of the kind he has studied in the United States. It is hypothesized that the original colonists of the New World derived from populations which developed in the mainland of China and moved northwest to the Manchurian Plain, eventually following the unglaciated Sungari River, and thence into the New
World.
92, / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 108>>>

An important beginning in 1981 was made to the understanding of biocultural adaptations and biological evolution of prehistoric populations in South America with the publication of Dr. Douglas H. Ubelaker’s The Ayalan Cemetary, A Late Integration Period Burial Site on the South Coast of Ecuador. This monograph in the Smithsonian's Contributions to Anthropology series presents a detailed analysis of fifty-four funerary urns from coastal Ecuador, containing twenty-five primary skeletons dating from 500 B.C. to the time of initial European contact. As a detailed, comprehensive presentation of both biological and cultural information gleaned from prehistoric cemetery excavation, the work is unique in Latin America. Ubelaker’s analysis shows an increase through time of characteristics such as crania! deformation, arthritic lipping at the knee, dental caries, evidence of infectious disease and life expectancy. It is hypothesized that an increased dependency upon intensive agriculture may account for dental and arthritic problems and some of the other changes.
Comparative biological data were also published by Ubelaker this year from the Ecuadorean sites of St. Elena on the southern coast and from Cotocollao in the highlands. The skeletal sample from St. Elena has been dated at nearly ten thousand years ago, making it one of the oldest large samples in the Western Hemisphere. Together, these new data present an emerging picture of prehistoric biological evolution that can be correlated with postulated changes and diversity in subsistence, settlement patterns, and other aspects of culture.
Diplomats in Buckskins: A History of Indian Delegations in Washington City, written by Dr. Herman J. Viola, Director of the Smithsonian’s National Anthropological Archives, was published in 1981 by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The book, focusing on the nineteenth century, tells the sometimes tragic, often dramatic story of Indian delegations from Colonial times through the present day. In spite of the painful misunderstanding and mistreatment the Indians endured, Viola shows the benefits Indians received from their visits to Washington as each delegation became more adept in handling relations with the federal government.
Archeological fieldwork conducted by Dr. William Fitzhugh resulted in the discovery of the largest, most complex late Maritime Archaic site (4,000—3,400 B.P.) so far known in Central and
Science / 93

<<<Page: 109>>>

Northern Labrador. At Nulliak Cave, evidence of an unexpected extensive settlement was uncovered through the investigation of series of structures, apparently houses, replete with hearths, floor passages, and tools. Large burial mounds and the remains of a caribou trap were also found. The buildings and burials indicate large social groups, perhaps formed into clans, with certain people accorded special status as seen in the elaborate burial and profusion of grave goods.
Fitzhugh’s 1980 discoveries, reflecting social organization and domestic life, when combined with his previously obtained data on burial practices and trade patterns, revolutionizes former interpretation of Maritime Archaic culture and has important ramifications for studies of the early archeological cultures of northeastern North America.
Adrienne L. Kaeppler continued her research and writing on Polynesian dance, investigating the meaning, use, and aesthetic principles of structured movement systems in Tonga and Hawaii. She worked in Hawaii with the three major living exponents of hula pahu (dance accompanied by wooden drums covered with sharkskin membranes)—the dance type that evolved from sacred temple rituals. She is particularly interested in indigenous Polynesian ideas of what constitutes ““dance’—a concept for which they have no over-all term—and the relationship between “dance” movement and the poetry that it projects into visual form as an audio-visual enhancement of social relationships and cultural aesthetics.
Museum botanist Dr. Mason Hale spent four weeks in December and January 1980-81 in the snow-free (dry) valleys of the Antarctic’s Transatlantic Mountains, collecting unique lichen that literally live inside rock to survive one of the harshest environments on earth.
No large masses of ice or snow exist in the dry valleys. The glaciers that originally cut the valleys withered away millions of years ago. The mountainous slopes, high plateaus, and steep gorge-like cliffs of the valleys now resemble the landscape of the southwestern U.S. desert. Occasionally, it snows, but the valley’s fierce winds soon scour most of the snow away.
94 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 110>>>

Lichen—which grows elsewhere in Antarctica—is not able to survive in its normal form in the dry valleys because of the strong winds that ceaselessly “sandblast’” the surface of the rock.
Because the dry valleys are the nearest terrestrial analog to the cold and barren surface of Mars, microbiologists used the valleys in the 1950s and 1960s to test their hypotheses concerning the possibility of the existence of life on the red planet. Traces of a few microorganisms that had been carried into the dry valley by the wind were discovered, but no evidence was found of any indigenous life.
Then in 1977 Dr. Imre Friedmann of Florida State University discovered that there were algae and lichen living in the microscopic niches between rock crystals. During the dark, sub-zero Antarctic winters, the lichens cease their life activities and become “‘freezedried” inside the rock. When the Antarctic summer arrives, the temperature outside remains below freezing, but the sun shining on the rocks allows them to absorb and retain solar heat and keeps the “climate” inside the rock a comfortable 45° F. The lichen thaws out and life resumes. Light penetrates into the porous sandstone and makes photosynthesis possible as far down as a half inch below the surface.
Hale, one of the world’s leading lichenologists, returned to Antarctica with Friedmann to classify the lichens and determine their life cycle and distribution. Hale’s analysis shows the presence of three chemical populations. He collected fertile material that is evidence for at least two crutose lichen genera, Buellia and Lecidea, each represented by two species in addition to the chemical populations. Much work remains to be done on the taxonomy, morphology, and chemistry of the lichens before anything can be said of their evolution and dispersal and relation to temperate forms.
In addition to their research activities, some museum scientists play key roles as “lawyers” within the scientific community. One of these is museum botanist Dr. Dan H. Nicholson, a leading international authority on correct botanical nomenclature. He represents the Smithsonian—along with other Botany Department staff members—at the meetings of the legislative body that amends the international laws (code) of botanical nomenclature, which is used throughout the world and affects the scientific names of all plants. The group met last August in Sidney, Australia, at the Thirteenth
Science / 95

<<<Page: 111>>>

Annual Botanical Congress. Nicholson is currently nomenclature editor for Taxon, the official journal of the International Association of Plant Taxonomists, in which all proposals to amend the code are published.
Museum botanist Dr. Richard H. Eyde looked into a curious chapter in botanical history during the past year: the mysterious mass death in the early nineteenth century, of trees that forested most of Trinidade, a small Brazilian island 700 miles out in the Atlantic Ocean. All that was left was a desolate landscape of arboreal corpses with interlocking branches.
Many explanations have been given for this phenomenon, including diseases and pests, extended drought, volcanic eruptions, high seas, and destructive goats and pigs. After getting the first true identification of the dead trees, Dr. Eyde points out that almost every possible explanation for their death has been given except old age and that this possibility is not as silly as it might seem. In fact, trees do become more susceptible to stress when they reach an advanced age. If introduced goats or pigs prevented young trees from growing, all the old trees could have succumbed together in an extra dry or damp year.
Museum entomologist, Dr. Paul Hurd, in a study published in November 1980 that has important economic applications, has determined native American wild bees to be far superior to honeybees as pollinators of North American sunflowers.
Hurd, and colleagues Dr. Wallace E. LaBerge of the Illinois Natural History Survey and Gorton Linsley of the University of California at Berkeley, are authors of “Principal Sunflower Bees of North America with Emphasis on the Southwestern United States (Hymenoptera: Apoidea),” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No. 310, 1980.
The Hurd-LaBerge-Linsley study provides a comprehensive list of all sunflower pollinators, classifying them according to their effectiveness. It is the first such guide ever prepared and is intended to provide a basis for the assessment and management of our native bees for pollination of sunflowers in both commercial and native settings.
Of the nearly fifty species of sunflowers native to the Western Hemisphere, it is the “giant” sunflower that is cultivated for its
96 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 112>>>

edible seeds and oils. Useful for salad and cooking oils, shortening and margarine, and as an ingredient in paints, plastics, and industrial lubricants, sunflower oil is also believed to have potential as an economical and renewable source of high-quality fuel for diesel engines. Now that the giant sunflower is a major cash crop, farmers are striving to increase the yield per acre. Employing more effective pollinators is one way of achieving this objective.
In the Soviet Union and other foreign countries, growers have long depended on honeybee colonies to provide pollination for sunflower plants. The scientists believe that because of ignorance the idea that honeybees are the best pollinators of sunflowers spread to this country.
In their three-year study, the scientists surveyed sunflower pollinators in eight areas in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and southern California. They recorded data on 9,964 pollinating bees. Seventeen species of native wild bees made up ninety percent of bees observed at the monitored sites.
“Up until now, few people in the United States have realized the role of the native bee,” Dr. Hurd said. ‘““We hope our study will change this view and make growers aware of how important it is to maintain natural areas around sunflower fields for the wild bees to use as nesting sites.”
Another study underway addresses the many biogeographical influences—including Africa to the south and Europe to the north— that contribute to the composition of Israel’s fauna. The Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities is currently undertaking the first comprehensive systematic classification of this fauna, a project in which museum entomologist Dr. Wayne Mathis is participating.
Dr. Wayne Mathis made two field trips to Israel in 1980-81 for a study of Ephydriadae (shorefly) family of flies, which eventually is to be published in the Academy’s Fauna Palaestina series. Accompanied by Dr. Amon Friedberg (Tel Aviv University), Dr. Mathis made a collection of twelve thousand to fifteen thousand shorefly specimens mostly in northern Israel (Golan Heights, the upper Gallilee, and Hula Valley) and in the Sinai. This rich and versatile family of flies—eighty to one hundred species—is of importance because it thrives in a variety of habitats ranging from the saline conditions of the Dead Sea to freshwater areas. Dr. Bryan H. Cogan of the British Museum, is coauthor of the study.
Science / 97

<<<Page: 113>>>

After three years of intensive research, the museum’s Dr. Meredith L. Jones and other scientists reported in July 1981 that giant worms found growing on the deep sea floor are a new family of animals that owe their existence to a heretofore unknown strategy for energy derivation based on chemosynthesis.
The giant worms live on the seafloor at geothermal springs occurring in a geologically active region of the East Pacific where lava sometimes erupts between separating zones of oceanic crust. Ordinarily, water at depths of a mile and a half is a frigid 36° F.; animal life is scattered and sparse. But in these rift areas, hot water from the earth’s interior—rich in hydrogen sulfide—flows up through fissures or vents in newly solidified sea floor lava. Living and thriving in these pockets of warm water are diverse communities of animals, including giant tube worms with no mouths or digestive systems. How do these worms and other animals survive, let alone flourish, in this toxic environment? Puzzled researchers who found the worms shipped them to Dr. Jones, one of the world’s leading experts on the anatomy of worms. It became his job to determine what known species, genus and family of worms—if any—they represented.
At first, the giant worm’s anatomy was totally alien to Jones, but after awhile it became apparent that it was related to that of two smaller species of worms, described about eight years ago, belonging to the order Pogonophora (or “beard bearer’’). At that point, Jones and other scientists had tacitly assumed that the giant worms probably were nourished by absorbing organic molecules through the tentacular surface of their plumed tip or across their body surfaces. This picture was consistent with the prevailing belief that the smaller pogonophoran worms received nourishment by absorbing organic molecules from the deep sea mud in which they lived.
But then the news arrived that two British and two Norwegian scientists had assayed the environment in which the small pogonophoran worms lived and could not find enough organic material in the mud to make it possible for the worms to survive, much less reproduce and grow. How, Jones wondered, could much larger worms without mouths or guts be getting nourishment?
98 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 114>>>

Shortly after, Jones came upon a tiny clue that would eventually lead to solution of the puzzle. While dissecting giant tube worm tissue from the trunk of the worm’s body, he spotted some tiny yellow flecks. Suspecting that they might be grains of sulfur, he asked mineralogists at the museum to test them. His hunch proved correct. The flecks were crystals of pure sulfur—an extraordinarily unusual substance to find in an organism.
Jones thought there had to be some relationship between the sulfide environment in which they lived and the sulfur crystals. The giant tube worms must have worked out a mechanism to get rid of sulfide that came across the plume or body wall. Somehow, they were detoxifying the sulfide.
A few weeks later, Jones gave a lecture on the worms at Harvard University. He mentioned the crystals of sulfur to a Harvard graduate student, Colleen M. Cavanaugh, who immediately told him that she thought bacteria might be producing the sulfur.
Jones sent specimens of tissue to Cavanaugh and to Stephen L. Gardiner at the University of North Carolina. Using sophisticated microscopic techniques, both confirmed the presence of sulfurcontaining bacteria.
Another major piece of the puzzle fell into place when Dr. Horst Felbeck of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego reported that in the worm’s trunk region he had found several key enzymes identical to plant enzymes that convert inorganic carbon to useful organic carbon in the form of carbohydrates. It soon became clear that bacteria were living in the worms’ trunks by the billions and they contained enzymes that could transform the hydrogen sulfide and use the resulting energy to make adenosine triphosphate, an energy-carrying chemical crucial to the formation of carbohydrates.
The last critical link in the chain of discovery was forged by Dr. Greg H. Rau of the University of California at Los Angeles. His studies suggested that organic carbon manufactured by the bacteria was being incorporated into the muscle structure of the worms themselves, thus ruling out the possibility that the worms were somehow getting carbon from some other sources in their environment.
Dr. Jones’s description and name for the new worm—Riftia pachyptila Jones—was reported in Science magazine along with the
Science / 99

<<<Page: 115>>>

other scientists’ findings on how the worms get nourishment. Many questions about the worm are yet to be resolved, including how the worms reproduce, how they get from one deep sea vent to another, and where they originally evolved.
“Volcanoes of the World,” the most comprehensive summary of global volcanism ever assembled, was published in August 1981 after ten years of research by staffers of the Museum’s Department of Mineral Sciences. It is expected to be an invaluable source of information for scientists, historians, students or any other reader interested in the history and effects of volcanoes.
The detailed reference book covers 5,564 eruptions, arranged chronologically with data on duration, explosive magnitude, and volume of products (when known); and 1,343 volcanoes active in the last 10,000 years, arranged by region with data on locations, heights, types, known eruptive history, and behavioral characteristics.
In addition, there are 5,345 volcano names, synonyms, and feature names, arranged alphabetically and cross-referenced; a list of 709 references, arranged chronologically by region, constituting a selective guide to the volcanological literature; and a world map with volcano locations and cross-referencing numbers shown.
The ten-year effort to produce the directory was led by the museum’s Dr. Tom Simkin, who took over direction of the project after it was launched by Dr. William Melson in 1972.
Simkin hopes the book will interest a broad audience and that feedback from the readers will help in the continuing effort to improve the volcanological record.
Because the book’s data is concentrated in a computer data bank, feedback can be quickly incorporated to build an increasingly complete record of global volcanism. The data bank is already being used for studies ranging from plate tectonic maps to tidal influences on volcanism.
The five other coauthors of the directory are: Lee Siebert, a museum specialist in the Mineral Sciences Department, who compiled useful geographic, historic, and volcanological information on the world’s volcanoes; Lindsay McClelland, leader of the museum’s Scientific Event Alert Network, who gathered information on con-
100 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 116>>>

temporary eruptions; David Bridge, operations manager for the museum’s Automatic Data Processing Program, who made it possible to produce the book’s computer-generated camera-ready data tables; Christopher Newhall of the U.S. Geological Survey, who compiled the directory’s explosivity index; and Dr. J. H. Latter, a New Zealand geologist, who contributed considerable information on foreign volcanoes in regions such as Canada.
Museum scientists continued in 1981 with the characterization and description of the meteorites collected in the past four years in Antarctica by National Science Foundation expeditions. Approximately 300 of the 750 specimens collected have been classified and described by Dr. Brian Mason in the Antarctic Meteorite Newsletter.
The Antarctic iron meteorites are being studied and described by Dr. Roy S. Clarke, Jr. One of these, a twenty-three-pound iron specimen from Antarctic’s Allen Hills, achieved a special status in the annals of meteoritic science.
As the specimen was being sliced with the department’s metalcutting saw, the saw suddenly stopped and refused to cut further. X-ray diffraction studies of the material conducted by Dr. Daniel E. Appleman and Daphne E. Ross disclosed the presence of tiny crystals of diamonds, together with two other forms of carbon: a rare mineral called lonsdaleite, chemically identical with, but having a different crystal structure than, diamond; and granite, the familiar form of carbon used in lead pencils.
Only one other iron meteorite has been found to contain diamonds: the Canyon Diablo meteorite that formed the mile-wide Meteor Crater in Arizona about fifty thousand years ago.
The diamonds in the Canyon Diablo meteorite seem to have been produced when the meteorite hit the earth and shockwaves converted natural carbon (graphite) in the meteorite into diamonds. But being small, the Antarctic meteorite would have been slowed down as it came through the atmosphere, and it would have hit the ice at too low a speed to create a crater. Therefore, Clarke believes the diamonds must have formed before then, probably as the result of two asteroids colliding with each other. Thus the meteorite is a piece from the collision.
Clarke, Appleman, and Ross reported their discovery in the magazine Nature.
Science / 101

<<<Page: 117>>>

For a number of years, museum paleobiologists Dr. Richard S. Boardman and Dr. Alan Cheetham have been working toward an improved understanding of the biology of bryozoans—aquatic, mostly marine, invertebrate animals that form permanently attached colonies.
The Boardman and Cheetham research, which supports a new classification of the Bryozoa phylum, is being published in detail in the first volume of the revision of the Bryozoa in the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology and in a textbook on Invertebrate Paleontology to be published by W. H. Freeman. The textbook has twentyfive contributing authors and is being organized and edited by Drs. Boardman, Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell of the University of Kansas.
Dr. Boardman has just finished a study of Triassic and Jurassic Bryozoa to investigate the fate of four bryozoan orders which supposedly became extinct at the close of the Permian. Only a fifth order has continued after this time. Boardman thinks that parts of this single order are derived from the extinct orders, and that major revisions of bryozoan phylogeny and classification are needed. The finished manuscript entitled, “Origin of Post-Triassic Stenolaemata (Bryozoa),” has been sent to Paleobiology for publication.
New material, consisting of Tertiary and Recent Bryozoa Dr. Boardman collected on a five-week trip to Australia in October and November 1980, is expected to provide new biologic information.
Many fossil bryozoans grew in the form of miniature trees, but have been preserved only as separated fragments. Dr. Cheetham, in collaboration with Lee Ann Hayek, Smithsonian Office of Computer Services, and Erik Thomsen, University of Aarhus, Denmark, developed mathematical methods to analyze branching patterns and branch tapering gradients in these fossil treelike forms. This has enabled them to reconstruct the form of a whole colony of these fossils and compare them with living species. Their findings were published in Paleobiology.
In an extension of this project, a three-dimensional model of a miniature treelike fossil bryozoan was built and placed in a flume so that Cheetham and Thomsen could study it under the stress of flowing water and measure its mechanical properties and resistance to breaking up. This permitted precise estimation of limiting physical conditions under which fossil species of this form could have grown.
102 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 118>>>

North America’s tree-loving grey and fox squirrels are really living fossils, which have changed very little in their anatomy in the last thirty-five million years, according to Museum mammalogist Dr. Richard Thorington and vertebrate paleobiologist Dr. Robert Emry.
The conclusion of the two scientists is based on studies of the oldest known fossil squirrel, Protosciurus, discovered recently by Dr. Emry in Wyoming’s White River Formation. Fragments of fossil squirrels had been found before in Oligocene deposits, but Emry’s is an almost complete skeleton. The jaw muscles of the fossil squirrel differ from the modern squirrel’s but otherwise it is almost identical to a modern tree squirrel.
Dr. Thorington has also been conducting a study of flying squirrels with Dr. Lawrence R. Heaney of the University of Michigan, focusing on how size differences might influence the gliding capabilities of various sized species of squirrels.
The smallest flying squirrels are only seven inches long, whereas the largest are thirty-six inches long. Using hand gliding as an analogy, Thorington and Heaney concluded that the largest flying squirrels must glide faster than the small ones, and that one of the main problems for a large flying squirrel is the speed at which it lands. They discovered that to cope with the problem the large flying squirrels have different shaped gliding membranes from the small ones to enable them to Jand at lower air speed than they otherwise could.
South America’s vast freshwater fish fauna is very poorly known, but a study now underway by museum ichthyologist Dr. Richard Vari is remedying this situation to a great extent in one major region of the continent—the Guyanas.
For the past two years, Vari has been surveying the fish of Surinam’s Corantijn River where the World Bank is funding a vast hydroelectric project.
When the project is completed, the Corantijn River will be diverted into a tributary, the Kabalebo River, which will be dammed and impounded at two or three points.
Both the diversion and the impoundment lakes are expected to have major effects on the fish fauna—a source of food for the several thousand people living on the lower reaches of the river.
Vari’s study, undertaken for the Surinamese Government and the
Science / 103

<<<Page: 119>>>

World Bank, is the first comprehensive inventory of that region’s fish fauna. More than 230 species have been observed and collected, and considerable information has been gathered about their life history, breeding behavior, ecology, and food requirements. Dr. Vari has been assisted in the field by Dr. Lynne Parenti, a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellow. The approximately fifty-five thousand specimens that they have amassed is the largest freshwater South American fish collection ever acquired by the museum. Studies of the material are now underway.
Administrative responsibility for the Smithsonian’s Fort Pierce Bureau was transferred in March 1981 to the director of the NMNH from the Smithsonian’s Office of Grants and Risk Management. The bureau, located on the Indian River near Fort Pierce, Florida, conducts research in marine biology with emphasis on studies of life histories and systematics of selected marine organisms of the Indian River and nearby continental shelf. Smithsonian facilities—including a laboratory barge—are located in the compound of the Harbor Branch Foundation, a not-for-profit corporation, established primarily for research in the marine sciences and for the development of tools and systems for underwater oceanographic research.
Museum scientists work at Fort Pierce in cooperation with Harbor Branch Foundation scientists and engineers. Currently, Dr. Martin Buzas is conducting a study of the distribution and systematics of Indian River foraminifera and examining the relataionship between the chemistry of the Indian River environment and foraminifera; Dr. Robert Gore is studying Indian River crustaceans; Dr. Mary E. Rice is studying the life histories of selected species of sipunculan worms from the coast of Florida and from the Caribbean; and Dr. David Pawson has been using the Harbor Branch submersible, Johnson-Sea-Link, to study deepwater holothurians (sea cucumbers) off the coast of Florida.
While continuing its services to schools in 1980-81, the Office of Education turned its attention to finding new ways to serve adults and family groups visiting the museum. Regular, adult tours began to be scheduled in the early afternoon, featuring opportunities to
104 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 120>>>

see new or especially popular exhibits with the guidance of knowledgeable docents. With a small grant from Outreach Funds, it was possible to stage four special family-audience programs related to museum exhibits: Sea Rhythms celebrated the museum’s new coral reef; A South American Christmas, with Peruvian musicians and Andean craftspersons, was presented over the holidays in the South American exhibit area; Brother Ah and the Sounds of Awareness honored Black History Month with traditional music from Africa, the Caribbean, and the Americas; and a dance performance titled Bugs, or How to Taste with the Feet, Smell with the Knees and Wear a Skeleton on the Outside was chosen to relate to the Insect Zoo.
A grant from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service supported a small pilot program for gifted high school students from the District of Columbia and Prince George’s County. Under the supervision of Sarah Gagne, fifteen students were provided with an introduction to the various departments in the museum. Each was subsequently placed in one of the curatorial departments for a part-time, voluntary project on which the student wrote and presented a report. In addition to this special program, the office is providing an increasing number of multivisit, in-depth tours for secondary-school students.
With the opening of the new Thomas M. Evans Gallery, the office is seeking to provide appropriate educational programs for the special exhibits. Docents for both the Mamluk and the Korean exhibits were recruited and trained so that regular adult tours could be scheduled.
The Free Film and Lecture Series continues to offer a wide variety of natural history and anthropological films to the public. Thirteen curators presented illustrated lectures, and Dr. Gus Van Beek introduced and fielded questions on six Fridays in October and November with the series, The Christians: A Stunning Tapestry of History and Culture.
The outreach to special audiences continued this year in cooperation with the National Zoological Park and the Museum of African Art. Numbers of people using the Naturalist Center increased significantly as new services and programs were offered. The Discovery Room continued to operate at peak capacity with more than 105,000 visitors this year.
Science / 105

<<<Page: 121>>>

Therapsids, the mammal-like reptiles that gave rise to the first mammals about two-hundred million years ago, have long been of interest to scientists as documents of one of the great evolutionary transitions in the history of life. The first major scientific conference about these strange looking beasts—the dominant four-legged animals on Earth 250-230 million years ago—was held in June 1981 at the Smithsonian, jointly organized by the museum and the Laboratory of Brain Evolution and Behavior, National Institute of Mental Health. Among the twenty-five leading scientists in the fields of paleontology, physiology, and ecology participating in the conference were the museum’s Dr. Nicholas Hotton, Dr. George Zug, and Dr. Leo Hickey.
During 1981, editing and typesetting were completed on Subarctic, the fourth volume in the series, scheduled for publication late in 1981. This volume focuses on the significance of the natural environment in affecting major aspects of the Indian cultures of Canada and interior Alaska. Editing and typesetting were begun on the second part of Southwest (volume 10), which covers all non-Puebloan peoples. The first part of Southwest (volume 9) was published in 1980.
The first two volumes, California and Northeast, issued in 1978, continue to sell and are both in their third printing. The complete encyclopedia, published under the general editorship of NMNuH’s Dr. William C. Sturtevant, will consist of twenty volumes.
Notable collections arriving at the center in 1980-81 included a quantity of trawl fishes from the Hawaiian Islands and African freshwater fishes from Lake Malawi. Collections of benthic invertebrates came in from the Azores, the Philippines, Colombia, Okinawa, Hawaii, and the Solomon Islands. Dr. Gordon Hendler continued field studies of coral reef brittlestars in Belize and Panama. With the help of Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Ms. Barbara Littman, and Mr. Kjell Sandved, Hendler used 16-mm elapsed-time underwater photography to observe the fishing behavior of basketstars and the activity of brittlestars that clean sponges.
106 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 122>>>

Notable geophysical events reported by the Scientific Event Alert Network in its monthly Bulletin during 1981 included: the continuation of episodic lava extrusion at Mount St. Helens; major explosive eruptions in the USSR and the Mariana Islands that injected ash into the stratosphere; repeated extrusion of lava flows on Reunion Island; two destructive earthquakes in Iran; and meteorite falls in Yemen and Oregon.
Since April 1981, data gathered by the Scientific Event Alert Network (SEAN) on strandings of marine mammals and turtles have been entered directly into museum research files maintained in the Smithsonian’s Honeywell computer. Each month’s data is compiled in the computer to produce the tabular mammal and turtle sections of the SEAN Bulletin. Some of the more significant marine mammal strandings and sightings of 1981 involved animals found outside of their normal ranges: a Hyperoodon ampullatus, never previously reported south of Rhode Island, sighted off North Carolina; a Cystophora cristata, not usually found south of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, observed off Massachusetts; and strandings of Kogia simus and Kogia breviceps on the California coast, rare there, but fairly common in the waters off Hawaii and the East Coast of North America.
The National Museum of Natural History Office of the Registrar continued to register incoming and outgoing collections, provide donor information to the museum and the public and provide registration workshops for the museum staff. The office participated in the Museum Registration Methods Workshop with approximately twenty-six participants from the United States, Canada, and England, and also accepted an intern from Kuwait for six months of training in Registration and Museum Storage.
During the year, the office recorded approximately 1,200 incoming collections and 1,700 accessions. Outgoing shipments processed through the office totaled approximately 4,500. Out of the total number of outgoing shipments, 1,890 loan transactions were recorded.
The office has been very active in describing the registration system for future automation plans. Each segment of the manual system has been described and documented.
Science / 107

<<<Page: 123>>>

Construction began in January 1981 on the Smithsonian’s Museum Support Center—urgently needed by the National Museum of Natural History for collection storage space—and with favorable weather proceeded ahead of schedule through fiscal year 1981. The general contractor is the George Hyman Construction Company of Bethesda, Maryland. The scheduled completion date for the $29 million project is January 9, 1983. Located on an eighty-two-acre site in the southern half of the Suitland Federal Center, the 303,000square-foot building will consist of a two-level laboratory and research area connected to four large storage pod units.
The base-line collection inventory at the National Museum of Natural History was nearly sixty-five percent complete by the end of fiscal year 1981 and is on schedule. Valuable specimen types and many specimens to be moved to the new Museum Support Center are being inventoried on an item-by-item basis, and the remainder of the museum’s collection of over 60 million objects is being inventoried in batches of specimens. The total computerized data base for the inventory will consist of over 2.3 million records, of which nearly 1.5 million were on file by the end of fiscal year 1981. Completed or near completion are inventories of archeology/ethnology objects, major groups of type specimens of plants, invertebrate animals, vertebrates and fossil organisms, valuable mollusks, certain families and orders of insects, invertebrates, mammals and birds, the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian stratigraphic suites of fossils, the egg and nest collection, fish tank collection, groups of reptiles and amphibians, the gem, mineral and rock collections, and the collection of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center.
A major study of the heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems of the museum was undertaken to determine the course of future improvements in these systems. When implemented in future years, these improvements will be of significant benefit to the collections, our visitors, and staff.
108 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 124>>>

Significant progress was made in improving the building’s fire protection systems. Complete fire detection and suppression systems were installed in the museum’s two wings.
The renovation of rest-rooms, designed to provide access to the disabled, was accomplished as a part of the museum’s plan for improved accessibility.
National Zoological Park
Each fiscal year is a continuum of efforts beginning in 1889 to the present and proceeding into the future. The National Zoological Park (Nzp) is staffed with intelligent, dedicated, well-trained, and highly motivated, employees, who are among the best zoo people assembled to accomplish our mission. This includes everyone in the organization from janitors to scientists. Although fiscal year 1981 presented personnel and budgetary reductions—problems we have not faced for many years—the staff demonstrated creativity, initiative, and great diligence when confronted with these changing conditions. As a result, the Zoo moved forward in all areas. Our animal acquisitions, management, health, and breeding programs flourished; planned construction and renovation projects proceeded reasonably well on schedule; the scientific programs continued productive research, presenting new insights into animal ecology, behavior, and breeding; and the support services program kept the grounds and facilities in even better condition than heretofore. Thus, in this year of challenge, the Zoo continued its progress, development, and achievements through superb staff response to budgetary and personnel constraints.
Upon completion of construction in November 1980, the Great Ape House was turned over to the Zoo by the contractor. The orangutans were the first to occupy the building, followed later by the gorillas. The educational, information signs and labeling were installed; and, after technical adjustments, the building was quietly opened to the public Easter week of 1981. The public acceptance of the building and exhibition has been very pleasing.
There are seven large, 1/2-inch-thick glass-fronted exhibit areas for the animals. In each animal’s area are artificial climbing ‘’trees”
Science / 109

<<<Page: 125>>>

In this year of challenge, the National Zoo continued its progress, development, and achievements through superb staff response to budgetary constraints. Shown here is the main entrance to the brand new Great Ape House, opened to the public during Easter Week this year. Below. In this interior view of the Great Ape House, visitors observe Nikumba, a male lowland gorilla (left) and Femelle, the female. The animals’ acceptance of their new enclosure has been dramatic as they become more content and responsive to each other . , . and to the public.

<<<Page: 126>>>

made of steel gunite. It was thrilling to see mature gorillas and orangutans, who had never before had more than pipes and wooden shelves, climbing on their new trees. Especially gratifying is the animals’ acceptance of their new quarters. They seem much more content and responsive to each other, as well as to the public.
Unseen by the public, but appreciated by the animals and keepers, are large retiring areas for the animals, an off-exhibit quarantine area, and wide spaces for safe and easy servicing of the animals by the keepers.
The grass-covered outside yards are separated from the visitors by a combination of dry moats and glass walls. Trees and gymnastic play apparatus will be installed in these areas next year.
The building is now occupied by six mature gorillas, three males and three females—Nikumba, Tomoka, Hercules, Femelle, Sylvia, and M’wasi, respectively. Hercules and Sylvia are on loan from the Baltimore Zoological Park, and M’wasi is on loan from the New York Zoological Park. Also occupying the building are a mature pair of orangutans, Atjeh and Pensi, and two juvenile orangutans, Bonnie and Azy.
After the 1980 annual Christmas Pageant of Peace on the Ellipse, the Zoo’s reindeer herd was transferred from Rock Creek to the Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia. There they accepted readily their fifty-acre pasture, enjoying the space and natural forage. This year their antlers were more magnificent than they have ever been.
The various animal breeding programs have continued. Among these are the golden lion tamarin (two-hundredth birth in September 1981), lesser panda, various crane species, Bali mynah, Eld’s deer, Pere David’s deer, bactrian camel, maned wolf, bush dog, tree kangaroo, binturong, and other animals whose reproduction continues to proceed satisfactorily. At the Conservation and Research Center, the yards for hardy birds (pheasants) were completed, and occupancy is beginning. Reproduction at the Bird House in Rock Creek has also been satisfactory. Among those birds reproducing were the ground cuckoos, red-breasted geese, and—for the first time at the Zoo—five double-wattled cassowary chicks were hatched. In February 1981, our lone kiwi was sent on breeding loan to the San Diego Zoo.
During the latter part of fiscal year 1981, the Great Flight Room
Science / 111

<<<Page: 127>>>

in the Bird House was closed to the public while a large fiberglass, steel-reinforced “tree” was built. It was completed in mid-September. The birds immediately explored and accepted their new perching areas on this tree, which has pockets for plants, a hidden watering system, and numerous knot-holes for potential nests.
The following animals were shipped to the Peking Zoo this year as part of an exchange agreement with the National Zoological Park: four cranes, two swans, six parakeets, one adult male mandrill, and two male and two female Canada geese.
Four bongo calves were born this year at Rock Creek. Tarun, the male Indian rhinoceros, was sent on loan to the New York Zoological Park, where he joins his son and two females. Patrick, his sevenyear old son, is several inches taller at the shoulder and weighs more than his father. A captive-born pair of two-year-old white rhinoceroses, Milton and Stormy, were received on loan from King’s Dominion, Doswell, Virginia.
The frustrating sage of the giant-panda breeding continues. Hsing-Hsing, our fertile thirteen-year-old male panda, has failed over the past four seasons to properly mount and breed Ling-Ling, the female. For this year’s breeding season in April, the London Zoological Society graciously lent us their fertile male panda, ChiaChia, with the hope that he would sire an offspring. After many weeks of preparation and negotiation, Chia-Chia arrived in March and settled in very well. Every new animal coming into the Zoo must undergo at least a thirty-day quarantine period to insure that it is free of any infectious agent that might contaminate the collection. For unknown reasons, Ling-Ling came into estrus three weeks earlier than expected. As a result, after the quarantine period, the two animals had not had the planned slow, gradual introductions to each other. On April 11, when Ling-Ling came into estrus, they were placed together. However, the normal panda roughhousing and fighting to establish male dominance turned into a serious fight. Chia-Chia completely dominated Ling-Ling and severely bit her hind legs repeatedly before Zoo personnel could separate the animals. Ling-Ling was so sore in her hind legs she could not stand. By the time she was able to walk again, she was out of estrous, so the breeding attempt for this year was another failure. On June 6, 1981, Chia-Chia returned to London and arrived in good shape. Once again we look forward to next April when Ling-Ling comes
112 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 128>>>

In ever-continuing efforts to produce giant panda offspring, Chia-Chia (shown) was brought to Washington on breeding loan from the London Zoo. Below. In a more successful saga, four bongo calves were born this year at Rock Creek, among them this young calf (left foreground).

<<<Page: 129>>>

into estrus. In September, the giant panda pair began being rotated into each other’s enclosures as a preliminary to possibly putting them together in their yards during the day when the weather gets colder.
In September 1981 the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums presented to the nzp the Edward H. Bean Award in recognition for the most notable birth in 1981: the Chinese alligator. This award is the most prestigious given by the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums. It was shared jointly by the New York Zoological Park and the National Zoo as a result of a cooperative breeding loan. In 1937 a pair of Chinese alligators was obtained by Dr. William Mann on his East Indies expedition. While the pair was at NzP, eggs were laid but none hatched. In 1975 the pair was sent to the New York Zoological Park and then shipped to the Rockefeller Wildlife Center in Louisiana, which has special breeding enclosures. In 1976 the nzp male died, and in 1979 the Nzp female was permitted to enter the neighboring enclosure containing a pair owned by the New York Zoological Park. In 1980 the New York Zoological Park female hatched a clutch of four eggs and the nzp female produced a clutch of eggs out of which eighteen hatched. These are the first known breedings and hatchings of Chinese alligators in captivity. These reptiles are among the world’s most endangered animals.
Another milestone in captive breeding involved an nzp-owned Liberian narrow-nosed, female, crocodile on loan to the Atlanta Zoo to be paired with their male. After six years together without results, the pair was sent to a specially designed facility at the Crandon Park Zoo, Miami, Florida. There the female showed her first nesting behavior and laid two eggs, which did not hatch. However, in the fall of 1980 she laid eighteen eggs, thirteen of which seemed fertile. This breeding is the first United States success with this species and may be the first captive breeding outside of Africa.
A management training program was established for the animal keepers. Three keepers were selected to receive broad and diverse training in management and care of zoo animals. Once they have completed the total training, they will be collection managers.
CONSTRUCTION Remodeling of the Reptile House started in February 1980 and the building was turned over to the Zoo by the contractor in mid-
114 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 130>>>

September 1981 after completion. The curator and animal keepers are currently preparing the exhibition areas’ decoration and reintroducing the animals to their renovated quarters. The various reptiles and amphibians had been in a holding area while the renovation was underway. With the new environmental-control conditions installed in the building, there should be a surge in reproduction and scientific studies within the next few years. Located in the area behind the Reptile House are three new, small houses, for indoor exhibits of crocodiles, and four outside yards and pools. The Reptile will not be completed until early in fiscal year 1982.
The basement of the Reptile House has been remodeled for a noctural exhibition of various animals, primarily small mammals. For the National Zoological Park this is a new exhibit technique and will not be occupied and opened to the public until later within the next fiscal year.
Since the acquisition of the Conservation and Research Center, Front Royal, Virginia, the staff has spent many hours planning for the future expansion of the center. Work has started on a new hoofed-stock facility scheduled for completion in the first quarter of 1982. During this fiscal year a long-range development plan for animal facilities and services has been underway. Although most of the formal architectural planning has been done this fiscal year, it will not be completed until early in fiscal year 1982.
Plans for Monkey Island and the first phase of the Aquatic Vertebrates exhibits have been progressing. Construction on these two projects will be initiated in future fiscal years.
The programs in scientific research and conservation continue. The work in Nepal is reduced primarily to an advisory capacity and the Venezuelan field studies are beginning to move into the final writeup stage.
Dr. Christen Wemmer’s studies on the Sulawesi civet are moving forward. As a result of last year’s field trip, several animals are now in the Jakarta Zoo where, it is hoped, they will breed. It has been found that this animal is more widespread, with a higher population, than was originally believed. Dr. Daryl Boness has made two field study trips concerning pinnipeds. One trip was to the northeastern Atlantic area to continue investigations into gray seals, and
Science / 115

<<<Page: 131>>>

the other trip was to the Pacific coast concerning a study on the California sea lion. Dr. Katherine Ralls continues her studies of the sea otter on the West Coast, with research periods in California and Alaska. Dr. Mitchell Bush spent several weeks in South Africa on a cheetah breeding study in a cooperative research effort with the Pretoria Zoo and the Wildlife Veterinarian Society of South Africa.
Dr. Eugene Morton pursued his field studies into neotropical birds in Panama and, this year, made one visit to Cuba. Dr. John Eisenberg, accompanied by scientists from the Cuban Academy ot Sciences, conducted a field study of the Cuban solenodon in the Sierra Madre mountains of Cuba. Dr. Dale Marcellini’s field work in Puerto Rico on the enolis goes forward.
Mr. Miles Roberts spent a month in Nepal studying the lesser panda in a continuation of his research on this animal. Dr. Melvin Sunquist went to Nepal to advise on radio-tracking of gavials and their plans for reintroduction of this animal into its native habitat. Dr. Christen Wemmer also visited Nepal and, while there, assisted in the immobilization and capture of a great one-horned rhinoceros for the Nepalese game department.
Drs. Kleiman, Eisenberg, Seidensticker, Wemmer, and Sunquist consulted with colleagues in India and visited several national parks concerning the parks’ problems and the possibility of future collaborative work on several different species of animals.
A training program has been established for our staff and guest students in radio-tracking techniques. There have been several students from overseas who have spent time observing and participating in this program. This summer there was a six-weeks’ course at the Conservation and Research Center on radio-tracking and wildlife-censusing techniques conducted for students participating in a cooperative primate training program. The National Zoo’s staff is involved in advisory and managerial aspects of this program.
A nutrition laboratory has been established, and we are developing an analysis program of foods and diets at the National Zoo as well as a comparative milk analysis of various animals. Dr. Mitchell Bush continues his studies of techniques of semen collection, analysis, and storage for a variety of species.
In April 1982, Drs. Eisenberg and Seidensticker, and Mr. Ross Simons, from the Assistant Secretary for Science’s office, spent three weeks in China to discuss the possibility of developing a long-term
116 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 132>>>

research program in a national forest in the Sichuan mountains, to study the ecology of the area, with emphasis on the giant panda. Plans were formulated, and negotiations with the Chinese authorities began. In September, a delegation from China visited the Smithsonian Institution for final negotiations, but an agreement was not reached. Should an agreement be made, preliminary plans are that, early next spring, members of the staff will go to China to establish a camp and begin studies. Throughout the year, Zoo and other Smithsonian staff will visit the study site for varying periods of investigation. Dr. Melvin Sunquist would be in residence for most of the year.
The long-term study— initiated at the Conservation and Research Center—on the native wildlife, involving numerous censusing techniques, has resulted in some interesting data. On the Center property, there has been no hunting for seven years. We found that there was a spring population of fifty-nine deer, thirty-seven raccoons, and five opossums per square kilometer. The ground-hog census has not been completed, but it is obvious that there is a large population. One startling occurrence was the discovery this year of endemic rabies in wild raccoons; there have been six confirmed cases. This is apparently the first time there is an opportunity to follow a rabies outbreak with a population under study. Much interesting data will be gathered over the next few years about the effects on the wildlife population.
The heavy deer population on the center’s property is affecting the undergrowth in the forest and has, for the past two years, depleted our alfalfa production. This year seven hundred acres in the central part of the center’s campus, which includes the primary alfalfa field, have been blocked off with what we believe is a deerproof fence. In September there was a drive to remove the deer from this fenced area, and about one hundred deer were known to have been chased out, probably one hundred evaded the drive. Plans are proceeding for a deer-cropping effort this year through a controlled public hunt. The plan is to reduce the number of wild white-tail deer to a level compatible with available food.
In September Dr. John F. Eisenberg’s book, The Mammalian Radiations, was published by the University of Chicago Press. The book is a cumulation of many years of study and observation, and promises to be an important aid in the study of mammals and their
Science / 117

<<<Page: 133>>>

ecology. At the American Mammal Society meeting this year, Dr. Eisenberg received the J. Hart Merriam award for outstanding contributions to mammalogy. This is a distinguished honor for him, the zoo, and the Smithsonian Institution.
This has been a very scientifically productive year for the National Zoological Park.
This fiscal year has resulted in a reduction of the nzp’s staffing level. The Zoo reached the new man-year level of 297 employees from the previous level of 327. Naturally, there were many adjustments and some anxiety among the staff; however, we met the new ceiling through attrition and imaginative personnel management.
On January 1, 1981, the Office of Education was reassigned from the Office of Animal Programs and placed under the Office of the Director. Dr. Robert J. Hoage, Special Assistant to the Director, was assigned Coordinator of the Offices of Public Information and Education. A peer review of our education programs was conducted in August, and a final decision on this report has not yet been made.
This year the Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) continued even more vigorously with their programs of support in education and science. The guide program for school children continues to provide a worthwhile service to younger visitors. The fourth-grade, juniorhigh, and high-school programs, which have been developed jointly with the Office of Education, continue to be an exciting experience for the students. The busing program continues to be popular with the children and school systems.
This year the Smithsonian Institution renewed the Fonz contracts for operating gift, food, and parking concessions located at the Zoo.
The nzp staff appreciates very much the continuing support of the Fonz in the intern and postdoctoral programs, as well as support of the Zoo’s various scientific programs both here and overseas. Many of these projects would not be possible without this monetary support. The contributions and support provided by the Fonz to the NZP’s programs also includes the time given by a group of welltrained, dedicated, and talented volunteers.
Most of the Fonz-generated revenues were derived from sales of
118 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 134>>>

food, merchandise, and public parking services. Financial information for calendar year 1980 is provided in detail below. In addition, a percentage of the restaurant and parking concessions is available directly to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National Zoo and is reported as income in the Financial Report of the Smithsonian
Institution. FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO Financial Report for the Period January 1-December 31, 1980
Net increase/ Net (decrease) to revenue Expense fund balance FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/80 .... $ 724 SERVICES Piemisershap 2). 52 occ s ccc e dees $ 241 $ 192 49 ECAGIONS. of eciere% 6 oi oes os cidales 67 77 (10) ET UMANIOU | 4 een ee 49 339 (290) OGRSEINICES | a cjoiiaai. ati cas eiet 2,493 2,040° 453 BO kal Site yaks cols eis a ne $2,850 $2,648 $ 202 FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/80 .. $ 926*
1 Excludes services worth an estimated $118,243 contributed by volunteers to FONZ.
2 Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services.
SIncludes $201,650 paid during this period to the Smithsonian under contractual arrangement.
“Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and scientific work at the National Zoological Park.
Science / 119

<<<Page: 135>>>

Office of Biological Conservation
The Office of Biological Conservation (osc), in its third year, has continued to provide many of the Institution’s responses to requests for scientific information and advice on aspects of biological and environmental conservation.
In order to apprise Smithsonian colleagues and the scientific and conservation community of current areas of environmental interest, bureau contributions and the recent relevant literature, the office has produced a “Biological Conservation Newsletter” which is circulated on a monthly basis.
For the purpose of stimulating concern among students and the general public, the office has been actively engaged in the preparation of a color-illustrated book entitled, Endangered Plants of the United States. The textual portions of the book have been completed, and provide a consideration of the vegetation and physiography of the United States in relation to the 150 endangered and threatened plant species whose status is discussed. The text will be complemented by 150 full-page color representations of the plants.
The Smithsonian Institution—Threatened Plants Committee (1ucNn) Latin America Project has finished a compilation of the names of eight thousand candidate endangered, vulnerable, and rare plant species for Middle America (Mexico and Central America). The candidate species, obtained by canvassing the literature, are arranged by country and have been sent to scientists and local authorities for comments regarding their population status. The final draft list of candidate species, based on these solicited comments, is expected to be completed by the end of this calendar year.
The second phase of the project, which concerns the flora of South America, has begun with a request for contributors to recommend species that deserve immediate priority for conservation. Information on species known to be threatened is being assembled for “red data sheets,” which will be included in the rucn’s forthcoming volume of the Plant Red Data Book. Expected to be published at the end of 1982, the newly expanded volume will include fifty to one hundred data sheets for Middle and South America.
The director, as the Smithsonian representative on the Species Survival Commission (ssc) of the 1ucn, presented a Situation Report for North America at the fifty-fourth ssc meeting. The report em-
120 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 136>>>

phasized the need to standardize the criteria used to develop status determinations for endangered flora, recognize the importance of threatened species in terms of their utility to people, and educate the interested public by means of popular books.
At a meeting of the Organization Committee for the Regional Workshop on Conservation of Tropical Plant Resources in Southeast Asia, held in New Delhi during the 1981 Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (c1TEs), a workshop was planned for January 1982, during which a cooperative project involving the Smithsonian Institution and the government of India will be developed for assessing the status of endangered plant taxa, their wild relatives, and genetic resources in India.
The osc, in conjunction with the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies of the National Air and Space Museum and botanists from the Suez Canal University, Ismailia, Egypt, is also involved in developing a study of the relationships between soils and vegetation communities in the Sinai peninsula in order to help recommend natural areas for preservation.
The director submitted five papers for the Thirteenth International Botanical Congress held in Sydney, Australia: “International Approaches to the Conservation of Wild Orchids,” “Tropical African Viewpoints on Conservation and Botanical Gardens,” ““Threatened Plants of the Americas,” “The Plight of the World’s Vanishing Flora,” and ‘’Plant Conservation, A Message for the Future.”
As commissioner, the director continued to serve as Smithsonian representative on the International Convention Advisory Commission (1cAc), which advises the secretary of the interior on scientific matters pertaining to the cites, particularly on the granting of specific import and export permits for trade in species listed in the Appendices to the Convention.
The osc was awarded a contract to provide illustrations of ten plant species (three carnivorous Sarracenias, seven cacti) most frequently found in international trade. which will be utilized in a United States identification manual for customs inspectors enforcing the cites at ports of entry.
The office continued its role in supporting the Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Isles and has provided sizable financial imput into the Seychelles Islands Foundation through fundraising efforts.
Science / 121

<<<Page: 137>>>

Office of Fellowships and Grants
The Office of Fellowships and Grants (orc) continues to serve as an Institution link with scholarly organizations throughout the world. It brings scientists and scholars to all parts of the Smithsonian to utilize the unique resources available as well as to interact with professional staff. The office also encourages cooperative research with universities, museums, and research organizations in the fields of art, history, and science. At present, two major activities are managed and developed by the office: Academic Programs and the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program.
Academic programs at the Smithsonian support and assist visiting students and scholars, providing opportunities for research to be conducted at Smithsonian facilities in conjunction with staff members. Residential appointments are offered at the undergraduate, graduate, and professional levels.
The Smithsonian also enhances the quality of its research and extends the reach of its scholarly efforts through the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (srcp). The secp offers grants to the Smithsonian and other U.S. scholarly institutions for research in a limited number of foreign countries where “excess currencies” are available. It is particularly effective in strengthening the “‘increase and diffusion of knowledge” on an international scale.
Academic programs at the Smithsonian are an important complement to those offered at universities. The national collections and the curators who study them are unparalleled resources, not available anywhere else, essential to scholarly research. In general, university education is based primarily on the study of books or artifact reproductions. At the Smithsonian, historical and anthropological objects, original works of art, natural history specimens, living plants, animals, and entire ecosystems are available for study. The educational experience, which combines university study with field research, is one that is significantly enhanced, and the breadth of field opportunities at the Smithsonian is unmatched.
The Office of Fellowships and Grants administered a variety of academic appointments in fiscal year 1981. The program of Smith-
122 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 138>>>

sonian preand postdoctoral fellowships, begun in 1965, awarded fifty-seven fellowships during 1980-81. These appointees pursue independent research projects under the guidance of staff advisors for periods of six months to one year in residence at one of the Institution’s bureaus or field sites. This year, topics of study for Smithsonian fellows included: skeletal biology of ancient Near East human populations; observational studies of families in natural environments; higher classification of the species-rich hairstreak butterflies; iconography of American feminism; the early years of the National Institutes of Health; and art and taste in Boston from 1907 to 1929.
The visiting graduate student program offered twelve ten-week awards during 1981. The participants are usually junior graduate students beginning to explore avenues that develop into dissertation research. This year, visiting graduate students studied antemortem tooth discoloration; herbaceous diversity of tropical forest understory; the Samuel A. Murray collection at the Hirshhorn; and analysis of new meteorites in the S.I. collections. The support of short-term visitors was also continued by the office. Twenty-three persons spent from one week to a month at the Institution, studying collections and conducting research.
A number of senior fellowships continued to be offered at the Institution. One of the pioneers of the space program and discoverer of the Earth’s radiation belts, Dr. James Van Allen, from the University of Iowa, spent eight months at the National Air and Space Museum (NASM) as a Smithsonian Regents Fellow. During his stay, he worked on a history of the space program to be published for the twenty-fifth anniversary of the space age. Dr. Van Allen’s tenure provides the base for future scholarly studies of astronautic history conducted at Nasm. In September of 1981, Dr. Lawrence W. Levine from the University of California at Berkeley came to the Institution to spend the year as a Regents Fellow at the National Museum of American History. He will be working on his current research topic, ‘“The American people and the great depression: culture and consciousness during the 1930s.” The end of fiscal year 1981 also marked the arrival of Dr. Joseph E. Harris from Howard University, the first Smithsonian Secretary’s Fellow who will complete his research and publication on the Ethiopian Research Council. The Nasm’s appointment as
Science / 123

<<<Page: 139>>>

John Hanley, former predoctoral fellow under an Office of Fellowships and Grants program—now a geologist with the U.S. Geological Survey—conducts a fossil identification workshop for the National Associate Regional Events Program. Below. The Radiation Biology Lab’s spectral turbidometer is being prepared for submersion from the boat deck whence it is lowered by winch.

<<<Page: 140>>>

Lindbergh Professor was awarded to R. E. G. Davies, internationally recognized for his work on the history of the worlds’ airlines. He will continue these studies.
During 1981, a number of bureaus continued to offer support for appointments to visiting scientists and scholars in cooperation with the orc. These awards made possible visits to the Smithsonian by persons who may not be eligible for the preand postdoctoral program, for example, scholars at mid-career.
A survey of past fellows has recently been completed, and the results are being compiled. Preliminary review shows that the 260 persons responding published a total of 961 articles and 55 books. Last year four former fellows participated in the National Associates Regional Events Program.
Internship activities during 1981 continued to expand. The National Air and Space Museum increased the number of summer appointees from three to nine students. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum also expanded summer internship offerings and appointed three students under the Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Fund. The orc also assumed the administration of certain academic appointments at the National Zoological Park (Nzp) and the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (csces). Ten students were selected to take part in the research at the caces and three students have begun studies as part of the nzp Primate Conservation Training Program. Eight students arrived in August to take part in the second Smith College-Smithsonian Program in American Studies. The students will again conduct research projects under the direction of staff members and will also attend a seminar course conducted by Smithsonian staff.
The survey of Smithsonian internships conducted in 1980 by the orc was reviewed and evaluated by a task force of bureaus and office representatives. The task force developed a policy statement covering internships throughout the Institution as a guide to bureau heads, administrators, internship coordinators, internship advisors and interns themselves. The development of policies and procedures on this subject is a major accomplishment as the value of an internship in academic courses of study is increasingly widely recognized.
In cooperation with the Office of Equal Opportunity, the ore has undertaken new initiatives aimed at improving minority par-
Science / 125

<<<Page: 141>>>

ticipation in Smithsonian Academic programs. Using networks of minority scholars and students, and focusing on the 117 historically black colleges, considerable success was achieved in the 1981 summer academic internship appointments. For the fall, a similar effort is underway, including staff visits to several historically black colleges and continued development of the networks by which candidates can be found whose needs are fulfilled by Smithsonian programs. Both student interns and visiting faculty fellows are sought in this effort.
The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (srcp) awards grants to support the research interests of American institutions, including the Smithsonian, in those countries in which the United States holds blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The program is active in countries in which the Treasury Department declares United States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of normal federal requirements, including, in 1981, Burma, Egypt, Guinea, India, and Pakistan. Research projects are moving toward conclusion under program support in the former excess-currency countries of Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.
This year, projects ranged through many disciplines, including archeological investigation of land-use patterns in India; geological investigations of the Egyptian desert; analysis of the disappearing court language of Burma; anthropometric analysis of dental malocclusion in Punjabi youths; systematic studies of blennoid and soleiid fishes in India; palynological survey of selected areas of Pakistan; and anthropological examination of the role of women in rice cultivation in India. The srcp supported the travel of ten presidents of historically black colleges to India to meet with counterparts there in an effort to develop linkages between similar institutions.
In 1981, preparation continued for the termination, at the end of the year, of excess currency funds in Egypt. The srcr has been the principal supporter of American archaeological and historical research in Egypt and of the Cairo Center of the American Research Center in Egypt, a consortium of American institutions with research interests in Egypt. The contribution of U.S. scholars
126 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 142>>>

has been highly significant; therefore, the Smithsonian continues to urge government and university officials to plan for replacement funding for the future.
The Smithsonian added another increment in 1981 to the forward-funded reserve for the American Institute of Indian Studies (aus), initiated in 1980, for use when surplus currencies are no longer available in India. The aus, a consortium of thirtyfour United States institutions, is the most successful U.S. scholarly presence in India, bringing more than one hundred fellows to that country yearly, operating an archaeological documentation center at Benares, and conducting language, translation, and publication programs. The aus has received program funding for the past fourteen years. Through incremental appropriations, the Smithsonian hopes to establish a fund of up to a $20 million equivalent in Indian rupees for future aris activities.
The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1981 appropriation of $3.65 million in “excess” currencies to support projects in anthropology and archaeology, systematic and environmental biology, astrophysics and earth sciences, and museum professional fields, and to add to the aus forward-funded reserve. From its inception in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1981, the srcp has awarded about $45.5 million in foreign currency grants to 221 institutions in forty states and the District of Columbia.
Through the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program and other relationships, the Institution has a long-term interest in American research centers abroad. In spring 1981, Dr. Alice Ilchman was retained by the Smithsonian to study the Institution’s role in securing the future of such centers and developing their activities further. As part of the response to Dr. Ilchman’s recommendations, the Office of Fellowships and Grants is assisting these centers in forming a cooperative organization for advancement of the interests shared by all. An orc staff member is acting as secretary to the new organization for several months as it creates a structure and program.
Science / 127

<<<Page: 143>>>

Radiation Biology Laboratory
Plant growth and development are influenced by many environmental factors. The Radiation Biology Laboratory (rBL) has emphasized the study of one of these, light, as a major, controlling factor. Light is periodically present in the environment with a precise timing that varies seasonally in the percentage of each twenty-four hour cycle as the earth rotates around the sun. Thus, plants have evolved processes which utilize sunlight and its periodic variations in two major ways.
First, plants have developed photosynthetic structures that capture large amounts of light energy and store it as chemical, potential energy; i.e., energy-rich molecules that serve as food for all living organisms are formed by photosynthesis. Second, plants utilize light signals—in ways that are incompletely understood at present—at the molecular level to regulate the utilization of available energy for growth. These regulatory processes are known as photomorphogenesis and include responses such as flowering, germination of seeds, and elongation growth. They respond not only to changes in light intensity and duration, but also to specific colors of light. The research areas of the rBt have continued to measure environmental factors, especially sunlight, and how they are utilized in photosynthesis and photomorphogenesis in the regulation of plant development. Specifically, these areas are: (1) environmental processes and energy flow in biological systems, such as photosynthesis, water relations, and carbon metabolism; (2) regulatory processes of plants, such as membrane synthesis and pigment synthesis; (3) measurement of the amount, duration, and color quality of sunlight present in the environment; and (4) age determination of biological artifacts based upon their radiocarbon content.
The relative effectiveness of different colors of incident radiation for photosynthesis was determined first many years ago in the RBL and was subsequently measured for numerous species by other investigators. This action spectrum for photosynthesis indicates that an ideal artificial source of photosynthetically active radiation would be one that generates only the wavelengths (colors) of
128 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 144>>>

radiation that are most effectively utilized. A source could be considered to be one hundred percent efficient if it produced radiation of a single color that coincides with the action spectrum maximum. A broad-band source, such as sunlight, consisting of many colors of light, is only fifty to sixty percent efficient for photosynthesis when compared in this manner.
The conversion of electrical to radiant energy by various electrical lamps used in horticulture and growth chambers was measured in relation to their photosynthetic utilization efficiencies. However, the lamps with the highest photosynthetic utilization efficiencies did not produce plants with normal developmental characteristics. It was found that the lamps commercially developed for horticultural applications yield no higher photosynthetic utilization efficiencies than some of the most common lamps developed for lighting applications. These results indicate that compromises are necessary to obtain maximum photosynthetic conversions of costly radiation provided by electrical sources and at the same time to maintain a suitable balance of colors needed for the desired photomorphogenic responses leading to normal developmental characteristics.
When the photosynthetic efficiency of plants occurring in salt marshes on the Chesapeake Bay was measured, it was found to decline from June through the remainder of the growing season and is correlated with an increase in the water stress within the leaves.
During the past year, a study was initiated to determine how growth and photosynthesis in salt marshes are inhibited by water stress, the first step of which was to characterize the daily and seasonal patterns of water potential. Water potential is defined in terms of the free energy of water in the plant compared to the free energy of pure water at the same temperature and pressure and is readily measurable in the field. Plant water potential declines as water loss, accumulation of salt from the soil, and small molecules from photosynthetic activity increase in leaf tissue throughout the day.
Water potential in the leaves of species adapted to salt marshes was found to be much lower than it is in plants adapted to forests and grasslands, and dramatically lower than in agricultural species. Spartina alterniflora and Distichlis spicata, two species that com-
Science / 129

<<<Page: 145>>>

monly form large tracts of salt marsh along the Atlantic coastline of North America, develop daytime water potentials approximately five times lower than would be required to stop photosynthesis and growth in corn. In fact, only plants from extremely arid environments have lower water potentials than these salt marsh species.
An interpretation of these measurements is that the ability to develop low water potentials through accumulation of salt and organic compounds (perhaps directly from photosynthesis) is a strategy for survival in an environment in which high salt and low oyxgen in the soil work against the plant’s ability to take up water. If the plant could not lower its water potential, water uptake from the soil could not keep pace with evaporative demand, and water loss would soon reduce turgor, resulting in the cessation of growth. Dessication is the single most common stress for all land plants. Knowledge of the mechanisms by which wild species have adapted to environments in which dessication is brought about by water loss or salt accumulation may ultimately permit economically important species to grow in environments where they are now unable to grow.
The monitoring of the color quality of daylight continues. As the accumulated data for several years indicate, there are complex changes in the values obtained from year to year. The determination of precise descriptions of the periodic fluctuations will require a long-term monitoring of both sun and sky components.
Precision instruments have been designed for monitoring the short wavelength portions of sunlight (ultraviolet B radiation, uvs). Since 1975, when these measurements were initiated, no consistent trend, either decrease or increase, in the fluctuations of the amounts of uvs has been observed. It is concluded that no significant changes in the ozone layer, which regulates the amount of uvB received from the sun, have occurred. These measurements are continuing at both the Rockville and Panama stations.
Another facet of the spectral monitoring of sunlight has been implemented with measurements near sunrise and sunset by a high precision device capable of accurately integrating data for two restricted wavelengths of light, 660 and 730 nanometers. These two wavelengths are important in controlling photomorphogenesis. Changes have been observed on a horizontal surface in the ratio
130 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 146>>>

of one wavelength to another. Measurements are in progress to determine if the same or larger magnitude changes occur in light directly from the solar beam. The changes so far noted are at very low levels of light around sunrise and sunset, but do not occur every day.
Underwater radiometric equipment has been devised to study the light penetration into estuarine waters along the Chesapeake Bay in a collaborative project with Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies and the National Museum of Natural History. A portable unit makes measurements at various places so that some understanding of the spatial relationships can be gained. Another unit, one that is stationary, is underwater at a mean depth of two meters. It monitors the spectral quality of light penetrating the water from sunrise to sunset every day of the year. The unit is removed every few months for maintenance and then is replaced. A duplicate of this unit monitors the spectral quality of daylight that falls on the water surface. A fourth unit is being used to do turbidity studies using the same spectral bands that are being monitored. Periodic changes, approximately five days long, in the light penetration of the estuary have been observed. A much larger data set will be needed to be sure this phenomenon is not an artifact or a short-lived event that may not occur from year to year. This instrument, with its integrating capabilities, can make high precision measurements in extremely turbid waters. The measurements will assist in correctly describing the aquatic light environment in the Rhode River estuary at the Chesapeake Bay.
Solar spectral quality and quantity affect not only the vegetative productivity and growth of plants through photosynthesis, but also in a much more subtle manner, their reproductive behavior. It has been known since the 1920s that many plants are capable of reproducing in response to changes in the relative length of the day throughout the year. This phenomenon has come to be known as photoperiodism. Two factors are known to be important for the control of this phenomenon, one is the presence in the environment of a suitable light signal to tell the plant, with some precision, how long the daylength is, and the other is an internal detector mechanism required to perceive such a signal.
It has been known for some time that the universal plant pigment, phytochrome, is the probable detector molecule or photo-
Science / 131

<<<Page: 147>>>

receptor. Based on the fact that this pigment exists as two interconvertible forms, it was thought that the daylength timing was related to the time required for one form to revert to the other. However, critical measurements of the rates of this interconversion have shown this not to be the case. In the laboratory, for at least one group of plants, it has been found that the response appears to be mediated rather by the relative levels of the two forms of the pigment that coexist in specific ratios depending on the quality of the light. It was also found that this response required very high energies of light with an optimal spectral composition. As the spectral composition changes from this optimum, the amount of energy required increases.
Laboratory measurements of the spectral composition of solar daylight indicate that, throughout most of the day, the relative energies are suboptimal. At twilight, however, as the total energy decreases, the relative energy shifts toward more optimal ratios. This shift was also found to occur with increasing shade when the light is passed through a series of leaves, as might occur under a forest canopy. Thus, it appears that this shift in relative energy might be the environmental light signal for photoperiodism.
The sensitivity of the plant itself to optimal spectral ratios was found to vary by fifty-fold during the course of the day. Thus, even when all of the proper light signals are present, the plant will only respond when they occur at the proper time. This internal regulation appears to be a function of the biological clock of the plant and, as such, is coupled to numerous biochemical and physiological events. As evidence for this, it has recently been found that the phase of the fifty-fold change in sensitivity is determined by the time when a light pulse is given. Normally maximum sensitivity occurs during the second half of the day. A light pulse given at this time changes the maximum sensitivity to the first half of the day. This change in time of sensitivity effectively shortens the daylength requirement and reinforces the initial stimulation.
The mechanism of how optimal ratios of the phytochrome pigment interact with this internal clock to both promote flowering and set the phase of sensitivity to the external light environment are the subjects of further investigation. The possibility that photosynthesis is somehow involved in this response has recently been
132 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 148>>>

excluded by demonstrating that plants, grown on a herbicide that produces plants without any chlorophyll, still show the same variation in response to light, at the same times during the day, as do normal green plants.
A specific example of the effects of spectral quality on reproduction occurs in the peanut. White light radiation stimulates the elongation of the plant gynophore, the fruiting body of the fertilized plant flower, and inhibits development of the embryo and pod. Elongation of this gynophore decreases as the levels of blue, white, red, and far-red radiation are decreased. Only when the radiation levels are decreased below a threshold level, which differs for each spectral quality, are embryo and pod development initiated. The threshold in the number of photons required for white and red radiation is lower than the threshold for far-red. The reversibility of the induction of these developmental characteristics by red and far-red radiation at the threshold values indicates the involvement of the photomorphogenic pigment phytochrome.
Phytochrome, the major photoreceptor for light-mediated development in higher plants is a colored protein that can be isolated and purified in the laboratory. Light converts an inactive form of the molecule to an active form, thereby initiating a chain of biochemical events leading to a physiological response. This lightmediated activation of the purified phytochrome molecule is being studied. It has been determined that a limited portion of the protein surface is altered on conversion to the active form. This site, which is believed to be a biologically active site, is located by binding to the dye Cibacron blue 3GA.
Limited proteolysis has been used to further characterize the dye binding domain. It has been found that the one hundred twenty thousand dalton peptide of naturally occurring phytochrome can be broken down to smaller fragments in the size range of sixty thousand to forty thousand daltons. Two fragments of about forty thousand daltons have been produced—one containing a colored chromophore and one not. Both of these bind to the dye, but with different affinities. It is believed that this is the result of proteolytic cleavage of the binding domain itself. These peptide fragments are being collected for further characterization.
Science / 133

<<<Page: 149>>>

The mechanism by which salicylic acid induces flowering in duckweed plants has been studied by using radioactive salicylic acid. Short-term uptake experiments indicate the acid is taken up rapidly and part of it is converted to a bound form of salicylic acid. When the acid is removed from the medium, its effect on flowering ceases almost immediately, but the level of both free and bound salicylic acid remains fairly constant in a culture for at least five days after the acid is removed from the medium. If a labeled four-frond colony is placed in control medium and allowed to grow until sixteen fronds are present, over ninety percent of the radioactivity is found in the original four fronds. Differential centrifugation shows no evidence for association of radioactive salicylic acid with any cell organelle. These results indicate that the acid does not move from parent to daughter frond and apparently is bound soon after being taken up. Thus, it probably acts during the uptake process or very soon thereafter.
Chloroplasts synthesize some of their polypeptides on ribosomes that differ from the ribosomes of the cytoplasm. A large portion of the chloroplast is composed of membranous sacs (thylakoids) in which the electron transport reactions of photosynthesis take place. Some of the polypeptides of these thylakoids are made in the chloroplast on chloroplast ribosomes, and some are made in the cytoplasm on cytoplasm ribosomes. Thylakoids of the alga Chlamydomonas, and thylakoids of other plants have thylakoidbound ribosomes bound to them. Previous work suggested that the thylakoid-bound chloroplast ribosomes might be specifically involved in synthesizing polypeptides that are added to the thylakoids.
Messenger RNA (m-RNA) associated with thylakoids has been isolated and translated in vitro in the wheat-germ protein synthesis system. The protein products formed have been analyzed using an antibody to total chloroplast membrane polypeptides. Preliminary analyses indicate that some of the labeled protein products are chloroplast-synthesized thylakoid polypeptides.
Antibodies to a number of chloroplast synthesized polypeptides have been prepared and characterized. These antibodies are currently being used to analyze the products formed when thylakoidbound m-rna is translated in vitro.
Under light-limiting conditions in red and blue-green algae, a
134 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 150>>>

large portion of the radiant energy from the sun is harvested by specialized supramolecular phycobiliprotein complexes (phycobilisomes). Since energy transfer within the phycobilisomes, and from the phycobilisomes to photosynthetic membranes is known to be highly efficient, it is of interest to determine the phycobilisome composition and the link to the photosynthetic membrane.
In the red alga Porphyridium cruentum, it was established that the phycobilisomes are closely spaced on the photosynthetic membranes with about four hundred fifty phycobilisomes per square micrometer, virtually covering the entire surface. Isolation of photosynthetic vesicles with the same phycobilisome density was accomplished, and it was shown that they were as photosynthetically active as whole cells and, furthermore, transferred excitation energy to chlorophyll as evidenced by a high fluorescence ratio (F 695 nm/F 685 nm = 1.1). Accomplishment of this phase, serving as an assay for functional phycobilisome-membrane attachment, is essential for being able to ascertain in-vitro reattachment. The phycobilisome composition of Porphyridium cruentum is highly complex. It consists of at least eighteen polypeptides, about half of which possess chromophores, and half of which are colorless. The colorless ones, assumed to be involved in phycobiliprotein-phycobiliprotein linking were present primarily in the core fraction. In the core they presumably link allophycocyanin and phycocyanins. Isolation and purification is proceeding toward identification of components involved in anchoring the phycobilisome to the photosyntheic membrane.
Phytoene, a forty-carbon colorless compound, is a precursor of the carotenoid pigments, and phytoene is synthesized from a fivecarbon compound, isopentenyl-pyrophosphate (irr), by a series of reactions. The biosynthetic pathway in the fungus Neurospora crassa using cell-free enzyme extracts has been studied. The conversion of pp to phytoene requires both soluble and membranebound enzymes. The enzyme which converts geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (ccrr) to phytoene is membrane-bound and regulated by blue light. This enzyme is absent in an albino-2 mutant. The conversion of 1Pp to Gopr is catalyzed by soluble enzymes, and at least one of these (probably a prenyltransferase) is regulated by blue light. The soluble activity required for the biosynthesis of GGpP is at a reduced level in an albino-3 mutant. In an albino-1
Science / 135

<<<Page: 151>>>

mutant, the enzymes required for phytoene biosynthesis from IPP have been shown to be present. In this mutant, the block in carotenoid biosynthesis is the conversion of phytoene to the carotenoid pigments.
Phytoene biosynthesis has also been investigated in another type of albino which is designated wc-1 (white collar-1). This mutant produces normal levels of carotenoid pigment in the conidia, but the mycelia remain albino under all conditions. It is proposed that the white collar phenotype is characteristic of regulatory mutants that are blocked in some part of the initial light-induction process. The results of cell-free studies in the Radiation Biology Laboratory support this hypothesis, since the light-induced increase in both soluble and membrane-bound enzymes, observed in wildtype and albino strains, is absent in the wc-1 mutant.
Based on these experiments, it was proposed that a number of such genes will be identified by a systematic mutant hunt. The isolation of wc mutants may lead to identification of the photoreceptor pigment. Identification of the photoreceptor would be of fundamental importance because of the distinct possibility that this compound is also involved in blue-light effects in higher plants.
The control of carotenoid synthesis in the fungus Phycomyces by blue light was previously shown to be a two-stepped process in which one step is induced by low. light levels and the second by high light levels. It was suggested last year, from preliminary data in which the relative effectiveness of three wavelengths was measured (365, 405, and 455 nm), that the apparent increase in effectiveness in the ultraviolet at 365 nanometers was due to the presence of two photoreceptors. A carotenoid was implicated for small light doses and a flavin for large light doses. Subsequent data confirmed the increase in relative effectiveness in the ultraviolet, but additional measurements revealed that significant screening occurs in the mycelium by the carotenoid being produced during the long exposure times required for the high light doses. When this screening is taken into account, it is concluded that only a single photoreceptor is required for both the low and high dose components, and the data favor f-carotene as the photoreceptor. Reciprocity data support the conclusion that irradiation of dark-grown cultures elicits the synthesis of a factor that is required before the high light dose component can occur.
136 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 152>>>

The laboratory provides analytical service for the research interests of the Institution’s staff in providing radiocarbon chronologies for samples of archeological and geological interest. Additionally, a major portion of laboratory research continues to focus upon the early occupations of the Americas and upon the investigation of relationships between changing environment and changing cultures. A series of Late Archaic Indian burials from the southern Connecticut Valley have now been dated to between thirty-three hundred and thirty-one hundred years ago. The burials contained a variety of artifacts previously attributed to other time periods and different regions in the Northeast. Further excavation and dating are being conducted to elucidate what promises to be a complete rearrangement of Indian chronologies in southern New England.
Bottom sediments cored from Munsungan-Chase Lake in northcentral Maine have been dated to 12,700 years ago. While done to provide paleoclimate reconstruction of that area in cooperation with the University of Maine’s Munsungan Lake archaeological project, the date is of considerable interest in that it suggests, with other sediment dates in Maine, that the last great icesheet of the area was not a part of the Canadian sheet, but a separate ice cover that retreated from all sides rather than simply from south to north as formerly believed. The matter is of great interest to Pleistocene geologists in both the history of glaciations, as well as its implications in glacial dynamics.
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
On April 10, 1981, the Secretary joined several hundred Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao) employees and friends in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the observatory’s location at Harvard University. Former director Fred Whipple narrated a slide presentation documenting the quarter-century history of sao’s growth during this period and its contributions to the international space program. Whipple was appointed to sao in 1955 and shortly thereafter,
Science / 137

<<<Page: 153>>>

at the request of the National Committee for the International Geophysical Year (1957-58), sao assumed the responsibility for establishing and operating an optical network to track any satellites launched during the upcoming period of intensive atmospheric research. Sao’s response was the development of the Baker-Nunn camera, comprised of a Schmidt camera—not unlike those utilized by the Harvard Radio Meteor Project—which was modified by James Baker, and a new mounting system, which was designed for this application by Joseph Nunn. In tandem with these plans was the establishment of a volunteer program called ““Moonwatch,” charged with making the first acquisition of the satellites and providing the rough orbital positions for camera tracking.
The camera stations eventually numbered twelve in locations around the world, and the Moonwatch volunteers numbered in the hundreds. When the first artificial satellites were launched, sao stood ready to back them. And, for more than a decade thereafter, these cameras provided optical coverage of satellite passages, as well as information on other astronomical phenomena. Scientific contributions from these efforts were reflected in the publication of the Smithsonian Standard Earth, a classic work that refined the size and shape of the earth to unequalled accuracy at the time. (This geodetic measurement would be further refined by data acquired later by lasers that replaced the cameras at most sao stations.) The SAO Star Catalog and accompanying Atlas also resulted from sao’s tracking program.
Under Whipple’s direction, the observatory pioneered in other areas as well. For example, sao became a world leader in the theoretical study of stellar interiors; the Prairie Network was established in the hope of photographing bright meteors as they entered the earth’s atmosphere and recovering any resultant meteorites. SAo’s computer was instrumental in testing the theory that explained the alignments at Stonehenge. The Celescope Project, part of the first Orbiting Astronomical Observatory, mapped the sky in ultraviolet light; and two sao researchers, in independent programs, were awarded lunar samples from the Apollo missions for study.
Many programs instituted under Whipple’s directorship continue to maintain sAao’s prominence as a research facility. Planetary research has led to participation in the Pioneer and Voyager mis-
138 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 154>>>

sions. Sao’s hydrogen maser clocks are considered the most accurate time-keeping instruments in the world and are the standards for the deep-space tracking networks. Very long baseline interferometry studies are an intrinsic part of a large national program. Balloon-borne gamma-ray studies have led to the development of a large infrared telescope also carried aloft by balloon to map the skies. Finally, the establishment of a new facility—the Mt. Hopkins Observatory—which would allow significant achievement in ground-based astronomy was conceived under Whipple’s leadership. This installation has provided the means for active observational programs using both conventional telescopes, whose compatibilities are enhanced by special detectors, and more unusual instruments, such as a ten-meter reflector for gamma-ray studies. More recently, the successful operation of the Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmT) has contributed greatly to the establishment of sao as a leader in the field of ground-based astronomy—a position sao had already achieved in the space sciences. (The mmr is a joint project of the Smithsonian Institution and the University of Arizona.) On September 14, 1981, the Board of Regents voted to rename the Mt. Hopkins Observatory in honor of Dr. Fred L. Whipple.
Since the establishment of the Center for Astrophysics in 1973, George B. Field has led the coordinated research programs of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Harvard College Observatory. During this period, solar studies have furnished valuable observations both in the extreme ultraviolet, by use of the Apollo Telescope Mount on Skylab, and in the X-ray regions. Indeed, under the center’s auspices, the long-term interests of both observatories were combined in the Langley-Abbot Solar Research Program. At the same time, the Einstein satellite, which carried the first X-ray telescopes capable of providing focused images of X-ray objects in space, gave X-ray astronomers an instrument equal to those available to optical and radio astronomers.
As sao’s second quarter-century in Cambridge began, Secretary Ripley acknowledged his confidence that the observatory would meet the new challenges posed by pursuit of excellence in astrophysics.
Research results of the past year, grouped by the divisions of the Center for Astrophysics, follow.
Science / 139

<<<Page: 155>>>

The Atomic and Molecular Physics Division carries out research in theoretical and experimental physics and chemistry that relates directly to the interpretation of astronomical and aeronomical observations and that enters into theories of the astrophysical phenomena. The accuracy with which the physical condition can be inferred depends directly on the precision and comprehensiveness of the data base of atomic and molecular processes. These atomic and molecular processes are more than diagnostic probes of the physical environment; they are often critical in the determination of the evolution of the astronomical objects. The division’s goal is to provide these data and the basic understanding of the processes.
A diverse array of theoretical topics, involving atomic and molecular processes and their application to the interpretation of astrophysical and atmospheric phenomena, is investigated by division members. Their studies concentrate on photodissociation, photoionization, and charge transfer.
Spectroscopic studies of processes and parameters in atomic and molecular physics of importance to astronomy also continue. Particular attention is directed toward the measurement of gfvalues of weak transitions in atoms and ions and of transition of rotational lines of molecules of interest to studies of interstellar gases and of the earth’s middle atmosphere.
Divisional programs are also supported by use of the 6.65-meter scanning spectrometer and Ion-Beam Facility. For example, highresolution absorption cross-section measurements of the Schumann-Runge bands of O2, which occur in the 175-205 nanometer wavelength region and control the penetration of solar radiation into the earth’s atmosphere in that region, have been obtained by use of the 6.65-meter scanning spectrometer. The Ion-Beam Facility is being utilized to determine basic properties of multiply charged atomic ions found in high-temperature astrophysical plasmas and in laboratory plasmas being developed by the Department of Energy. Measurements of electron impact excitation cross-sections of triply ionized carbon were accomplished, and experimenters have begun to study this process in singly ionized carbon.
New programs pursued by the division include a laser selective excitation technique developed to measure weak-line oscillator
140 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 156>>>

strength. This new technique has been tested recently with a measurement of the f-value of the Mg I 'S — °P® intersystem line where comparison experimental and theoretical values exist. The technique will be applied in the future to the analogous but onethousand-times weaker transition in Be I and will provide a useful check on earlier theoretical data. A study of the coherent and nonlinear effects induced on atomic ensembles by high-power, coherent laser radiation has alse been carried out and will give a critical assessment of the general applicability of this laser-based approach to study other weak transistions.
The principal activities of the High Energy Astrophysics Division are grouped in three main areas: analysis of data obtained in current or previous missions; planning and development of instrumentation for future space missions for orbiting observatories; and continuing research on energetic phenomena in the universe.
This year, scientific activities related to the reduction and analysis of data from the Einstein satellite dominated the division’s research. Einstein, the second satellite in the High Energy Astronomy Observatory (HEAO) series, carried the first X-ray telescopes capable of providing focused X-ray images of a wide range of astronomical objects. Other Einstein-related activities emphasized mission planning and target selection; the conservation of the spacecraft attitude-control gas, which was exhausted in April 1981; and the continued direction of and support for the Guest Investigator Program.
Among the highlights of the Einstein research in fiscal year 1981 were the discovery of two galaxies showing strong X-ray activity but no optical activity; the detection of a probable underluminous X-ray active nucleus in the nearby galaxy M81; and the discovery of limitations on the physical state of a confining medium for the emission line clouds found in the outer regions of active Seyfert nuclei.
Since the formation of the center, the division has played a preeminent role in developing and using high spatial resolution telescopes and imaging detectors for X-ray astronomy. The X-ray telescope, the imaging proportional counter, and the high resolution imaging detector on the Einstein/HEAo-2 Observatory were designed and developed by division members.
Other substantial data-analysis activities included the HEAo-1,
Science / 141

<<<Page: 157>>>

sas-3, Skylab at, and rocket programs. Ongoing hardware design and developments included the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility, the Large Area Modular Array of Reflectors for a Spacelab or oss-2 mission, advanced X-ray imaging detectors, and X-ray spectroscopy for plasma diagnostics.
The Optical and Infrared Astronomy Division, in addition to conducting astronomical research in the areas of optical and infrared astronomy, has the responsibility for maintaining and upgrading ground-based optical telescope facilities. These include the twentyfour-inch and sixty-inch telescopes and the mot at Mt. Hopkins, and the Agassiz optical facilities (owned by Harvard College Observatory). (The mmr is a joint operation of the Smithsonian Institution and the University of Arizona.) The division also has an active instrument development group whose main activities have been the continuing development of photon-counting devices (image intensifier and Reticon) for spectroscopic applications and of the ccD camera.
The mn is still not fully operational; however, in the past year, more than fifty percent of the available time was used for scientific observing. Staff members made use, principally, of the moderate resolution MMT spectrograph, the sao echelle spectrometer, and the SAO ccD camera. In addition, some work was carried out with the MMT InSb photometer.
The development work on the mnt is concentrated on the thermal configuration and the coalignment system from the point of view of taking advantage of the superb seeing—sometimes better than one second of arc.
A collaborative effort by University of Arizona and sao computer programers, engineers, and technicians led to the development of a new telescope coalignment system (tcs) that can adjust the individual telescopes to a common focus as often as four times per second. With the new tcs, which significantly improves the quality of images obtained by the telescope, a video camera is used to look at the six individual images in the focal plane. A small, high-speed computer then interprets these video images and adjusts the movable optics of the mmr to keep the images “stacked”; i.e., at a common focus.
142 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 158>>>

The division also continued to upgrade the capability to provide remote observing for the staff and to provide reduced data using the NOVA and vax computers. In addition, balloon and satellite studies of the infrared region are under way.
The Planetary Sciences Division carries out a wide variety of solar system investigations that exclude the sun and concentrate on the analysis of Voyager results, lunar studies, and comets. Of particular importance is research related to the origin of the solar system.
A wide range of investigations is pursued by a member of the Voyager Imaging Team and includes the following areas: detection of aurorae; lightning and bright fireballs in the atmospheres of Jupiter and Saturn; and the measurement and structure of aerosol layers that exist well above the cloud tops of both planets. An investigation of volcanism on Io led to a model for the plumes that compares very favorably with the observed examples. Another division member has utilized Voyager results in studies of Saturnian satellites and rings and is carrying out a detailed calculation of the location of resonances and their theoretical strengths.
A consortium to study the petrography, major and minor element chemistry, and ages of some of the Apollo 16 samples is led by a division geologist who is a participant in the lunar highlands initiative. Current study is focused on rock 67015, a breccia with a light gray, friable matrix from the rim of North Ray Crater. Early results of the study show that the matrix is more variable in a KREEP component and the clasts include at least one variety not found in the adjacent breccias.
Another lunar project is the effort to computer-model the origin of the earth-moon system via accretion of the earth from planetesimals, and formation of a protolunar swarm from planetesimals that are disruptively captured during passage through the earth’s Roche zone.
About 550 observations of comets and minor planets were made with the 1.55-meter reflector at the Agassiz Station. The observations of the new comet 1980s played a critical role in the establishment of its orbit, and those of 1980e seem to have been the last obtained of that object.
The rotation periods and vectors of cometary nuclei continued to
Science / 143

<<<Page: 159>>>

be subjects of study. Halley’s Comet has been given special attention because of interest in mission planning for 1985. The nucleus rotated in 10"19™ both in 1835 and 1910, and the axis of rotation is being determined.
Investigations of the solar system have focused on studies of the structure and evolution of isolated giant gaseous protoplanets that are formed as a result of gravitational instabilities in the primitive solar nebula. Current research is concentrating on the possibility that interstellar grains present in the giant gaseous protoplanet can clump together and precipitate gravitationally to the center of the object on a sufficiently short time scale to form a higher density core, which will not be subject to the evaporation process.
A member of the division directs the IAU Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams, which issued some 130 [AU Circulars and 35 telegram books, and the IAU Minor Planet Center, which issued some 750 Minor Planet Circulars during the year. In addition, some 130 minor planets were newly numbered during the year.
The Radio and Geoastronomy Division activities included research in Very Long Baseline Interferometry (vLBI); atomic clock development and relativity applications; aeronomy research in mesopheric ozone; geophysics research based on the operation of the sao laser tracking network; and other research devoted primarily to Space Shuttle applications.
The visi group improved the accuracy of relative positional measurements of interstellar masers to better than 100 microseconds of arc including measurements of proper motions. They also constructed the first aperture synthesis map of an OH maser and discovered high velocity mass outflow from a young stellar object in Cepheus A. In addition, maser emission was mapped in the envelopes of M super giants.
Basic research has been carried out to improve the stability of masers and their applications to experimental tests of relativity. Considerable progress has been made by lowering the operating temperature of the maser cavity, and by coating the cavity wall surfaces with such substances as carbon tetrafluoride. The maser group has successfully operated a maser at 26 K. Development continues on masers for space flight operations for relativity, gravity wave,
144 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 160>>>

and visi applications. Atomic clocks developed by this group were used as precise time standards in the tracking of the Voyager missions to Saturn.
Routine spectroscopic observations were made of stratospheric and mesospheric ozone, using a ground-based spectrometer operating near a wavelength of three millimeters. Inversion of spectra clearly reveals substantial diurnal variations of the ozone mixing ratio with altitude. The aeronomy group collaborated with others to measure other atmospheric molecular species, especially water, as a test of current photochemical theories.
Under nasa support, the division operates three satellite ranging lasers: Arequipa, Peru; Natal, Brazil; and Orroral Valley, Australia. A fourth tracking laser is maintained at Mt. Hopkins. During the past year, the network was upgraded with an improved optical pulse chopper installed at all stations to reduce laser pulse width and improve ranging accuracy. Data handling capabilities were improved by modified software, allowing more direct transmission of data from field stations to sao. A minicomputer was used in communications; software was adapted for operations on the recently installed pec vax 11/780 computer at sao. All field stations continued local coverage of LAGEOS, GEos-c and other satellites useful for geodetic applications. In addition, the sao laser network routinely provides five-day averages of the earth’s polar position to the Bureau International de l’Heure.
Basic research in geophysics is concentrated on the short wavelength features of the earth’s geoid (~100 or ~1000 kilometers), which can be measured with satellite-borne radar altimeters. Several chains of seamounts and ridges in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans were studied.
A number of research programs are under way to study the behavior of a very long tether deployed from the Space Shuttle. Among them are use of the tether to deploy a satellite for aeronomy purposes, below the shuttle, at a low altitude where atmospheric drag would severely limit the lifetime of a conventional satellite. A second application of the tether is its use as a very long antenna to inject radio waves into the magnetoionic medium of the earth’s ionosphere. The research shows that a deployed tether of onehundred-kilometer length would permit vir and ELF signals to be detected with state-of the-art magneto-metric instrumentation.
Science / 145

<<<Page: 161>>>

oe ont
63°54 |
{ @)
63°48"
00°23125 ooh22785 00°22" 2/3 o0*22™ 008
The HEAO-2 (Einstein) satellite sent back to sao unprecedented views of celestial sources of X-rays, including this X-ray picture (above) of the Tycho’s Supernova which could then be compared with a radio image (below) of the same object.

<<<Page: 162>>>

The Solar and Stellar Physics Division pursued a vigorous observational and theoretical program directed toward critical problems pertaining to cool stars and the spectroscopy and behavior of hot astronomical plasmas.
The Langley-Abbot Program provides fundamental support in the area of solar physics and related problems. (This program, funded by the Smithsonian Institution and using data provided by several Harvard satellites, supports intensive coordinated studies of the complex relationship between solar and terrestrial phenomena.) Observational programs at the Mt. Hopkins Observatory, ultraviolet spectroscopic measurements with IvE, HEAO-2 (Einstein) X-ray measurements, and a solar ultraviolet coronagraph program formed the principal ongoing observational component of the division’s research. Emphasis is generally on the sun and other cool stars and stellar systems. Ultraviolet observing programs with tue also include the spectroscopy of supernova remnants, of the interstellar medium, and of cataclysmic variables. Theoretical research continues with particular emphasis on stellar chromospheres, stellar winds, and diagnostic spectroscopy of hot plasmas.
This year’s highlights include the first measurement of the temperature and density in the solar-wind acceleration region. The discovery of a decrease in the solar proton temperature with height in the solar corona establishes the need for additional coronal energy input at 1.5 to 4 solar radii. These results were obtained by analysis of rocket-borne ultraviolet coronagraph observations.
Definitive semi-empirical models of components of the solar atmosphere, based on our ultraviolet experiment on Skylab, were published.
An ultraviolet survey of cool stars made with the 1vE satellite provided measurements that define the chromospheric and coronal radiative losses, determine the minimum energy requirement of cool stellar atmospheres, and exhibit the enormous range of activity to be found in cool stars.
Stellar analogs of solar activity were discovered to occur in several G and K stars. Short time-scale variability in the Ca K line limits the size of activity to restricted regions of a stellar surface. Fundamental measurements of the modulation of the integrated flux of the chromospheric Ca K feature directly yield the rotation rate of cool
Science / 147

<<<Page: 163>>>

stars. This unique program is a powerful probe of the critically important rotation rates of solar-type stars, which are difficult, if not impossible, to infer from line profiles. The rates of many stars are now known from this survey to be less than previously thought.
The Theoretical Astrophysics Division carries out research on a diverse range of astrophysical phenomena, with theoretical studies often applied to the support and interpretation of observational data. Division members frequently work in collaboration with scientists in other institutions as well as with members of other divisions. In addition, they contribute significantly to the educational programs of the observatories.
The theoretical programs under investigation by division scientists are heavily computer-dependent; however, satellite observations do provide the basis for some.
An IUE program to monitor the variability of Seyfert galaxies simultaneously across the radio-X-ray wavelength range led to a better understanding of the nature of the continuum source. In particular, these observations point to the importance of inverse Compton scattering in the production of X-ray photons in the galaxies that are strong radio sources.
An analysis of the cra Redshift Survey—which, in essence, weighs the matter contained in clusters of galaxies—was performed. Implied values of the cosmological density parameter 1 were shown to lie in the range 0.07 to 0.6, depending on the assumptions made.
From an investigation of methods of forming galaxies from massive neutrinos, it was concluded that if stable neutrinos have masses on the order of one hundred eV, and if there also exists a more massive unstable neutrino, then galaxy formation is facilitated by massive neutrinos. If the universe has almost critical density, then neutrino halos also ease the constraints on “Big Bang” nucleosynthesis. Baryon halos would produce too much helium and too little deuterium. Contributions from many astrophysicists on this and closely related topics were presented at a “Neighborhood Meeting” on Dark Matter in Galactic Halos and Clusters of Galaxies, which was organized by a division scientist in May 1981.
An investigation of the equilibria and behavior of relativistic,
148 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 164>>>

thermal plasmas has led to the finding that such plasmas, in their optically thin regime, have a maximum temperature for each physical size and develop a negative specific heat at high luminosity.
Work on composite particle models of quarks and leptons led to the discovery of a mechanism whereby composite states, which are kept massless by chiral symmetries in the absence of weak and electromagnetic interactions, could be given a rich mass spectrum by these interactions.
This year, valuable progress was achieved in the understanding of magnetic fields, photodissociation processes, interstellar clouds, accretion flows and mass outflows, radiation processes and the effects of X-rays, the clustering of galaxies, and the hydrodynamics of the solar interior.
Other division members have carried out basic studies of stellar and galactic dynamics, stellar and galactic structure, gravitational theory, radiative transfer, kinetic theory, hydrodynamics, and scattering theory.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
The tropical forests and seas are where the preponderance of life evolved, and the tropics are being altered by human activity at an alarming rate. We find increasing evidence that anthropogenic impacts may be contributing to the worldwide increase in atmospheric COz and to the gradual heating of the earth. Research at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (stR1) is focused on the evolution, ecology, and behavior of tropical organisms. Studies in Panama and other tropical regions provide a basis for explaining how plants and animals survive, cooperate or compete, interact with their environment and propagate their kind. The richness and diversity of tropical life, and lucid examples of adaptation, provide an essential perspective that shows the intricate balance of the natural world. The basic research carried out at str1, both on Barro Colorado Island and elsewhere, has for more than fifty years enhanced our understanding of the tropical biota and its critical interaction with human populations.
Facilities supporting tropical research at sTRI were augmented
Science / 149

<<<Page: 165>>>

during the year. Dr. Michael Robinson, Acting Director, signed an agreement with the University of Panama that will engender mutual cooperation and sharing of facilities. In addition, the government of Panama has announced plans to construct a National Library and archive near stri offices in Panama City. The new library will form an impressive cultural center, along with sTRI’s new library to be built on the same site. On Barro Colorado Nature Monument—a fifty-four-hundred hectare tract that includes the island and adjacent mainland—the Panamanian National Guard has cooperated in training thirteen game wardens and patrolling the area. Gilberto Ocafia, str1 Superintendent of the Nature Monument, has succeeded in enlisting the support of local farmers in protecting this forest preserve. With funds from a James Smithson grant, Dr. Alan Smith coordinated the construction of a large plant-growing house, which is now a permanent installation on Barro Colorado Island (scr). This facility will allow scientists to conduct controlled physiological and ecological studies of the island plants. Joining the str1 staff was Dr. Mark Denny, as marine coordinator and researcher in the area of biomechanics. Dr. Frank Morris, former environmental officer of the Panama Canal Commission, took over administrative duties as Executive Officer, and Ramon Ely is now str Facilities Manager.
The studies of 213 visiting scientists and students, as well as those of twenty-four permanent staff members, were aided by efforts of the str1 support staff, grants from the Scholarly Studies program of the Smithsonian Institution, the Edward John Noble Foundation, the Educational Outreach Program of str, and the EXXON Corporation. From September, 1980, to September, 1981, a total of fitfy-nine preand postdoctoral students obtained support from the above agencies, performing independent or cooperative research with the guidance of str staff members (see Appendix 4). Results of this research were reported at over seventy-five seminars given at str1 and in numerous scientific journals (see Appendix 6).
Senior scholars who visited str1 with Smithsonian support included Drs. Richard Dawkins, John Maynard Smith, Charles D. Michener, Robert D. Martin, and Edwin Willis. Dr. Robert Trivers spent a year at stRI as a Smithsonian Regents Fellow, and, along with several of the senior scientists, contributed to seminal discussions of evolution and behavior.
150 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 166>>>

Scientists working with strr carefully search for parasites and check physiological condition of a black vulture before tagging and releasing it as one of the 1,524 birds under study. Below. Dr. Michael Robinson, Acting Director of stri (left), and University of Panama Rector Dr. Cedefio Cenci (center) sign a mutual cooperation agreement for advancing knowledge of tropical biology.
Sane

<<<Page: 167>>>

str1 Director, Ira Rubinoff, returned from sabbatical year as visiting fellow at Wolfson College, Oxford, England, where he completed work on a strategy for preservation of some of the world’s remaining tropical moist forests. The plan would provide direct economic incentive for conservation. Funded by proposed contributions from the developed nations, the plan would support a system of one-thousand reserves approximately one-hundredthousand hectares each, thereby insuring the preservation of approximately ten percent of the world’s remaining tropical forests.
The primary goal of the Environmental Studies Program, headed by Dr. Donald Windsor, is the analysis of marine and terrestrial ecosystems. Basic data are being gathered to describe physical and biotic environments of coral reefs and tropical forests. On Barro Colorado Island, seasonal variations in meteorological and soil factors are studied in conjunction with the phenology of forest trees and the fluctuations in selected animal and plant populations. For instance, Dr. Charles Handley is studying the foraging habits and abundance of frugivorous bats, many of which eat mostly figs when available. Allen Herre is studying how the availability of agaonid wasps, the sole pollinators of figs, affects fig production, and whether this is related to the shortage of figs detected in the midrainy season. At Galeta Reef, at the str1 Caribbean Marine Laboratory, Dr. John Cubit is working with Judy Connor, in conjunction with the Ecosystem Analysis Project, and Dr. Roy Caldwell and students. Their work is providing basic descriptions of the coral-reef environment and the distribution and abundance of its biota. These projects yield useful information for formulating resource management policies for Caribbean reefs, as well as a wealth of information on the natural history of reef plants and animals.
The individual research project is still the mainstay of much of the str scientific effort. In 1981 Dr. Alan Smith continued his comparative studies of high-altitude, long-lived tropical plants above the treeline, and initiated a study of the elimination of one such species by elephants on Mount Kenya. In the forest of sect, Dr. Smith began studies on the response of understorey herbs to variation in microenvironment influenced by rainfall, treefalls, and topography. Stri to postdoctoral fellow Lucinda McDade studied the pollination and flowering dynamics of Pentagonia macrophylla
152 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 168>>>

and Pavonia dasypetala, two species pollinated by hermit hummingbirds. Postdoctroal fellow S. Joseph Wright completed studies of bird species diversity and abundance on eight islands in Gatun Lake, Panama, and predoctoral fellow Francis Putz showed that lianas slow forest regeneration in tree fall gaps and increase the chance of death of trees that bear them.
Dr. Mary West-Eberhard wrote a review on the swarming behavior of tropical social wasps, finding that swarming is coordinated by the deposit of trail pheromones, which are followed by individuals rather than a coherent group. The pheromone is probably derived from glandular products that serve in dominance communication between females in nonswarming social species. The evolution of swarming appears to have arisen from reproductive competition among the queens in populous colonies. Dr. WestEberhard was invited speaker at the International Symposium on Social Insects in the Tropics in Coccoyoc, Mexico.
The year 1981 saw publication of Dr. Robert L. Dressler’s book, The Orchids, Natural History and Classification (Harvard University Press), and he participated in the Thirteenth International Botanical Congress in Sydney, Australia, and the Symposium of the International Society for Tropical Ecology in Bhopal, India. Dr. Dressler completed research on the primitive orchid genus Palmochris, showing that all plants of a given species flower on the same day, during a period of a few hours, presumably attuned to a subtle environmental cue. He has also summarized and expanded information on humus-collecting shrubs, which short-circuit the nutrient cycle in wet tropical forests by collecting their own discarded leaves and inflorescences.
Dr. Robert Silberglied designed a system to measure the incidence of predator attack on butterflies, and also continued study of hybridization and reproductive isolation in populations of Anartia. Dr. Silberglied was invited to attend the meeting of the Royal Entomological Society in London, where he presented new evidence that the brilliant wing colors of many tropical butterflies do not serve, as Darwin had believed, to attract females of the species. Rather, these colors seem to function in communication with other males, minimizing the reproductive competition between them by signaling that a particular territory has already been patrolled for receptive females.
Science / 153

<<<Page: 169>>>

Dr. Olga Linares spent much of the year in the field, studying the ecological factors which affect agricultural practices and the society of the Diola peoples of southern Sénégal. With Dr. Anthony J. Ranere, she edited a volume, Adaptive Radiations in Prehistoric Panama (Peabody Museum Monograph, No. 5, Harvard University Press). Senior Scientist Dr. Martin Moynihan concentrated on publishing summaries of studies of cephalopod molluscs in the Caribbean and the social and sexual behavior of coraciiform birds in West Africa. Dr. Moynihan continued studies of cephalopod behavior in the Southwest Pacific, and applied ideas derived from game theory and mimicry to the interpretation of animal behavior.
Dr. David W. Roubik coordinated the activities of fifteen collaborating scientists from Panama, Colombia, and the United States in the study of bee biology and pollination ecology. With assistance from the Scholarly Studies Program and the Exxon Corporation, Dr. Roubik continued to monitor the abundance and pollination preferences of native bees in Panama, to eventually describe the ecological impact of Africanized honeybees, which are entering Panama from Colombia. Dr. Roubik was invited lecturer at the International Symposium on Social Insects in the Tropics and the Fourth Symposium on Parasitology, both in Mexico.
Exxon fellows from the University of Panama, Orlando Castillo and Ameth de Leon, both worked in the Gigante Peninsula of the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, analyzing tree species composition in young forest. These studies are among many thesis projects performed by fellows at str1, and their results will be compared with those of Dr. Stephen Hubbell, of the University of Iowa, who has coordinated a large-scale study of forest composition on sci, financed by the National Science Foundation. Dr. Hubbell, Dr. Robin Foster, and associates have mapped trees within a fifty-hectare plot of old forest on scr. The tagged trees are being identified, and their spatial distribution is being analyzed, which will result in detailed knowledge of forest structure and species recruitment, as well as provide valuable records for future studies.
Dr. William Eberhard was invited to the International Meeting of the American Arachnological Society in Knoxville, Tennessee, where he also studied the behavior of several temperate spider
154 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 170>>>

genera. Dr. Eberhard conducted field research in Panama on the web construction behavior of orb-weaving spiders and performed computer analyses of web photographs, using the computational facilities of str1. In a departure from his usual studies, he published a major theoretical article in the Quarterly Review of Biology, considering the possible role of competition amongst intracellular organelles as an evolutionary force.
Dr. Egbert F. Leigh, Jr., made comparative studies of architecture and leaf arrangements of trees in wind-planed elfin forest of mountain tops in Costa Rica and Malaysa. Drawing from comparative studies of nutrient-starved scrub and mangrove communities, and normal wet lowland tropical forest, Dr. Leigh expects to resolve which architectural features of elfin forest reflect nutrient starvation and which may be related to the unique aspects of elfin forest climate. Dr. Leigh also worked on the mathematical theory of population genetics to try to construct a falsifiable hypothesis of the theory of evolution by natural selection.
Dr. Michael H. Robinson, in addition to serving as deputy director, presented an invited paper at the International Ethology Congress in Oxford, England, entitled ‘The Evolutionary ArmsRace.” Dr. Neal Smith attended the Bird Census Symposium at Asilomar, California, and in addition to two papers presented there, gave fourteen seminars at North American universities. In a study aimed at answering questions of population structure and social organization, Dr. Smith and two collaborators from the University of Panama—Carlos Ayarza and Guillermo Garcia de Paredes—completed a second year of research on the black vulture, Coragyps atratus. This scavenging bird is the principal bird species associated with Central and South American cities. Smith and coworkers are endeavoring to document the natural history and dispersal habits of the birds, and have tagged 1,524 birds in the course of their study.
Dr. Peter Glynn gave a graduate seminar course in coral reef ecology at the University of Guam and attended the Fourth International Coral Reef Conference in Manila. In continuing studies of the sea star Acanthaster, Dr. Glynn showed that this predator tends to increase the number of species coexisting on the reef where its preferred food comprised the dominant species, but that it has the opposite effect where nonpreferred corals predominated.
Science / 155

<<<Page: 171>>>

This finding is similar to that of Glynn’s studies on species-poor Pacific reefs of Panama.
Dr. G. Gene Montgomery worked with Brazilian collaborators in a project designed to conserve populations of the manatee in man-made lakes. Manatee-hunters were hired to locate the aquatic mammals, which were then transported to protected lakes where their presence is deemed beneficial in the control of aquatic vegetation. A second major research project, to census Brown Pelicans in the Pearl Island Archipelago and on Taboga and Uruva Islands in Panama, was carried out by Dr. Montgomery with the assistance of three Exxon fellows from Panama and Colombia. The study gave strong indication that pelican-breeding colonies in the Bay of Panama are of international significance, and that these sites deserve protection as national sea bird refuges.
Senior scientist Dr. A. Stanley Rand attended the Ethology Congress at Oxford, England, and also pursued comparative studies of iguana nesting behavior on San José Island, in the Bay of Panama, and at several nesting sites within the Barro Colorado Nature Monument. Dr. Rand and collaborator Gordon Burghardt initiated studies on natural populations of the iguana in Venezuela, and Katherine Troyer, str fellow, worked out the relation between the diet of young iguanas and their gut flora. The flora necessary to assimilate nutrients from a strictly vegetarian diet appear to be derived in part by coprophagy by young iguanas. Michael Ryan completed a Smithsonian Fellowship, with Dr. Rand as advisor, and continued to elucidate the risk due to predation by bats that accompanies the mating calls of male frogs. Collaborating with Dr. Merlin Tuttle of the Milwaukee Public Museum, Ryan showed that the calls of males are subtly adjusted to avoid attracting the bats.
Research by Dr. D. Ross Robertson continued to focus on the birth and death schedules of larval sturgeonfishes and damselfishes, and the lunar perodicity of spawning in the latter. Dr. Robertson also studied the population fluctuations of several species of reef fishes in the Caribbean.
The successional process of tropical vegetation was assessed by strI fellow Thomas Barringer, based on aerial photos, LANDSAT satellite imagery, and field studies in the Barro Colorado Nature Monument. These data are being used with comparable informa-
156 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 172>>>

tion from lowland tropical forests in the Philippines, to test a mathematical model of tropical forest succession. Diane DeStephen, str1 fellow, also addressed a facet of tropical succession by studying predispersal seed predation on sci. Dr. Raymond C. Highsmith, str1 postdoctoral fellow, completed research of the bioerosion of corals and mollusc shells in the coastal reefs of Panama.
Dr. Hindrik Wolda continued his multi-year program to monitor the stability and seasonality of insect species on sci. Dr. Wolda pursued taxonomic studies of cicadellids, in collaboration with Dr. Dwight DeLong of Ohio State University.
Research Associate and former fellow, Dr. Katharine Milton, published a book on her long-term studies of the Barro Colorado howler monkey population: The Foraging Strategy of Howler Monkeys (Columbia University Press).
As a note of historical and zoological interest, the longest-lived howler monkey in captivity “Bully” escaped from his residence of twenty-three years on sci. Dr. Martin Moynihan hand-reared Bully in 1958; the diet devised for howlers by Dr. Moynihan has been adopted at many zoological parks.
Science / 157

<<<Page: 173>>>

This major sculpture, Paul Gauguin’s Cylinder Decorated with Figure of Hina, was an important acquisition this year by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

<<<Page: 174>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
Archives of American Art
The annual harvest of Archives of American Art (Aaa) acquisitions brought in a bumper crop this year. Each new collection of papers offers sustenance to some eager researcher, and certain particularly rich ones could feed a whole detachment of scholars for years to come. Of the 262 collections received in 1981, several are especially worthy of note and will serve to represent the entire body of acquisitions.
Following the usual pattern of aaa collecting, the papers of artists were more prevalent than those of art dealers, curators, collectors, and critics. There was relatively little from the nineteenth century—chiefly, a small but choice group of George Catlin correspondence, several Frederick MacMonnies letters, and a few contemporary items relating to John Goffe Rand, whose contribution to art (and to dental hygiene) was less his paintings than his invention of the squeezable paint tube. A larger collection, which begins in the nineteenth century and ends in the twentieth, is the papers of Walter Gay, an American painter who went to France to study in 1876 and remained there for the rest of his long and successful life. His correspondence and that of his wife is full of enlightening references to his work, to other American expatriates, and to fashionable French and English society. “I dined with Edith Wharton on Sunday,” his wife writes on July 5,

<<<Page: 175>>>

1910, “where I met the usual literary crowd, with Berenson thrown in.” There are letters from Rodin and John Lafarge, from Henry James, Gari Melchers, Elsie de Wolfe, and Sarah Cooper Hewitt, one of the three sisters who founded the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. The collection also includes photographs and a series of early sketchbooks.
The voluminous papers of Andrew Dasburg, an early twentiethcentury modernist painter who lived and worked into his ninetysecond year, are a source of much useful information on a variety of subjects. The artist communities of New York City and of Woodstock in the years before and during World War I, and of Taos, New Mexico, after 1918, come vividly to life in hundreds of letters exchanged between Dasburg and his first wife, the sculptor Grace Mott Johnson. The Armory Show, the Mabel Dodge menage, early psychoanalysis, Paris in the summer of 1914, and several prominent painters and sculptors are described and discussed in this absorbing correspondence. Letters from other artists, some fine photographs, and rare publications are also of interest.
An unusually contemporary note for the aaa was struck this year with the gift and loan of two groups of Red Grooms’s papers, some of them dating from his early painting career in Nashville. Chiefly family correspondence, the letters throw light on Grooms’s developing reputation and later international success. Much of this material, including letters from his wife Mimi Gross, is illustrated with wildly colorful drawings.
The records of art collectors are often of interest, not least for the documentation they carry on individual works of art. This year the aaa filled a major gap in its holdings on the decorative arts by acquiring the Francis Patrick Garvan papers, which thoroughly cover the activities of one of our nation’s leading collectors in that field. The papers include a substantial quantity of correspondence with dealers, curators, art historians, and conservators, as well as detailed inventories and other business records relating to the purchase of furniture, silver, paintings, ceramics, and rare books. The settlement of the Garvan estate after his death in 1937 is recorded in great detail.
Art dealers’ papers are also a major source of information for
160 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 176>>>

researchers. The top example of 1981 is business records of the Henri Gallery, Washington, D.C.’s most active dealership handling the work of contemporary artists over the past twenty-five years. Correspondence, notebooks, ledgers, photographs, and scrapbooks all in great profusion, provide a thorough record of the gallery’s work and important information on local artists and on the Washington art market during a period of rapid growth.
The papers of two distinguished art historians make an impressive addition to the aaa’s holdings of prominent scholars’ records. Erwin Panofsky, the great iconographer and one of the most influential figures in the development of American academic art historiography, conducted an extensive and wide-ranging correspondence with hundreds of scholars, curators, critics, collectors, universities, organizations, and fellow members of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton during his forty-year residence in this country. As befits a meticulous record keeper, he made and preserved carbon copies of his own letters. The collection also contains the manuscripts of his books, articles, and lectures, including his famous “Ideological Antecedents of the Rolls-Royce Radiator.”
Joshua C. Taylor’s papers chiefly reflect his teaching career at the University of Chicago and his published work on the Italian Futurists, on the nineteenth-century American painter William Page, and on the visual arts in America. A large quantity of notes, photographs, and other background material on those subjects constitute much of the collection, which also includes correspondence with former students, other art historians, curators, and friends and associates, most of it dating from prior to his appointment as Director of the National Collection of Fine Arts (now the National Museum of American Art). A series of letters written during World War II and several later travel diaries reveal a disciplined intellect; and a small group of sketches shows his early interest in ballet and theater design. Taylor played an active role in the formation of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, and his influential work in that connection is clearly recorded in his papers.
The most complete set of institutional records received by the Archives of American Art in 1981 are the papers of the Print
History and Art / 161

<<<Page: 177>>>

Council of America (pca). This organization was founded in 1956 by a group of curators, collectors, and makers of fine-art prints, in an effort to set standards for print production and distribution and to increase the knowledge of the American public concerning prints. Included in the collection are the correspondence and distribution material concerning the pca’s two most important publications, The Care and Collecting of Original Prints, by Car] Zigrosser and Christa Gaehde, and What is an Original Print, by Joshua Binion Cahn. The collection also includes correspondence from noted print curators and collectors such as Lessing Rosenwald, Karl Kup, and Zigrosser. There are several hundred photographs of prints sent out by the rca in traveling exhibitions across the country, as well as copies of the calendars they published once a year on print exhibitions in America. Financial information and criteria for certification as a dealer round out the collection.
A new surge of productive activity took place in the aaa’s Oral History Program in 1981. A grant from The Cleveland Foundation subsidized videotaped interviews conducted by the Archives Midwest Regional Director with five leading Ohio artists. Two additional video interviews, both made in Detroit, with Brian O’Doherty and Gene Davis, reflect an effort to build this visual, as well as verbal, form of documentation. Several grants from California agencies enabled the aaa to continue its systematic oral history project in that state. Among the thirty-one interviews completed this year, those with Ray Kaiser Eames, Armand Hammer, and the artists Larry Bell, Robert Irwin, Helen Lundeberg, and Bruce Nauman are of particular interest. The Wyeth Foundation supported interviews in New York with Chaim Gross, Raphael Soyer, and Dorothy Varian; and the Mark Rothko Foundation provided funds to undertake a two-year project to record reminiscences of Rothko by several dozen friends and associates. Other notable figures, whose recollections were taped this year, include Lois Bingham, Mrs. Walter Gropius, Reuben Nakian, and Annemarie Pope.
Since the Archives of American Art exists to promote scholarship by making research in its field possible, the extent to which it is used is a measure of its success. In 1981, 2,950 research visits were made to the five regional centers, a modest increase over the previous year, and 1,050 microfilm rolls were lent to researchers throughout the country.
162 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 178>>>

The aaa lent several items to exhibitions held in 1981. Among those were two exhibitions in Germany; one on American Realism at the Neue Gesellschaft fiir bildende Kiinste, to which copies of a rare periodical, Art Front, were lent. Several Lyonel Feininger drawings were lent to another German museum, the Museum fiir Kunst und Gewerbe. In America, the DeYoung Museum borrowed several works on paper by Henry Alexander, and a selection of David Smith photographs were lent to the Detroit Institute of Arts.
Two symposiums sponsored by the aaa reflected the continual growth of interest in American art. In Boston, a one-day symposium was held on the subject of Arthur B. Davies and modernism in conjunction with a show at the Institute of Contemporary Art, where several of the aaa’s Davies documents were also displayed. Garnett McCoy, senior curator, gave a paper on Davies at this symposium. A Washington symposium “Other People’s Mail’ featured writers who have published books in the past year utilizing the resources of the Archives, and included lectures by John Wilmerding, on John Frederick Peto, and Meryle Secrest, on Romaine Brooks and Bernard Berenson.
In the area of publications this past year, the card catalogue of the aaa was published by Scholarly Resources, Inc., in ten volumes, for distribution to college and university libraries as a finding guide. The Archives of American Art Journal continued its quarterly publications with articles on Abraham Rattner, John Ferguson Weir, Henry Alexander, Charles Green Shaw, and excerpts from an oral history with Lloyd Goodrich.
The results of earlier work conducted at the Archives appeared in an impressive number of books, exhibition catalogues, and articles published in 1981. Books on Dorothea Lange and Ad Reinhardt, and major catalogues of the work of Berenice Abbott, Arthur B. Davies, Guy Pene duBois, Lyonel Feininger, Walter Gay, Childe Hassam, Hugo Robus, David Smith, and Benjamin West leaned heavily on aaa material. Substantial catalogues on Futurism, the Library of Congress building, sculptors’ drawings, and American art of the 1920s and 30s, among others, all contain acknowledgements to the Archives of American Art.
History and Art / 163

<<<Page: 179>>>

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
In fiscal year 1981, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum continued its wholehearted committment to excellence in exhibitions, educational programs, and special events, garnering considerable public, press, and professional interest.
Among exhibitions was a major presentation in the fall entitled, Now I Lay Me Down to Eat: A Salute to the Unknown Art of Living, conceived and organized by the museum’s scholar-inresidence, Bernard Rudofsky, the exhibition received wide critical and public attention. It was an exercise in observation, exploring attitudes toward everyday domestic manners and filling the museum with familiar objects relating to such subjects as bathing, sitting, sleeping, eating, and cleansing.
Another exhibition, Central Park, offered the unique opportunity to view a large selection of original drawings and designs by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, recording the rich record of mid-nineteenth century taste, vision, and the planning of a great urban park.
Contemporary graphic design—the American poster of the past decade—was the subject of the exhibition Ephemeral Images, which surveyed the work of America’s foremost graphic designers.
Special collection exhibitions continued to emphasize the museum’s rich holdings in the field of the decorative arts. Silver, Matchsafes, and Pottery displayed the Cooper-Hewitt’s finest examples within each category.
Two loan exhibitions concentrated on furniture design and technology. Shown concurrently, John Henry Belter and the Rococo Revival and Innovative Furniture afforded museum visitors the opportunity to study furniture designs of the past two centuries. The landmark Belter exhibition assembled many rare works from the nineteenth-century cabinetmaker’s New York workshop. Innovative Furniture, circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites), examined the development of the American furniture industry and its ever-changing notions of function, design, and construction.
German Stage Design in the 19th Century, selected from the holdings of the Deutsches Theatermuseum, Munich, served as an important document of theater production from the German court
164 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 180>>>

theaters at Weimar, Berlin, Vienna, Munich, and Bayreuth. The exhibition emphasized the familiar operatic repertory of von Webern, Mozart, Rossini, and Wagner as well as designs for dramatic productions by Shakespeare, Goethe, and Schiller.
The Moving Image: The Art of Animation displayed a diverse selection of original animation cels and drawings. Special emphasis was given to landmark productions by Disney—Snow White and Fantasia—as well as to other major animation studios: Warner Brothers, Hanna Barbera, Fleischer, Ub Iwerks Studio, and others.
In celebration of summer, two floors of the museum were given over to Gardens of Delight, a major exhibition on horticulture and its many reflections in art. Apart from a number of important loans, the show was drawn primarily from the museum’s own resources. Hundreds of decorative objects, paintings, prints, drawings, books, and textiles with floral themes were included. The museums conservatory and garden were specially planted for the occasion. New York Times critic, Ada Louise Huxtable, described
the shown as . a splendid potpourri of treasures . . . the delights are endless.”
In 1981, sires continued to circulate nationwide both Urban Open Spaces and The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art.
The ongoing series of collection handbooks was enlarged by four volumes: Silver, Matchsafes, Pottery, and Wallpaper. Also, four more volumes in the series The Smithsonian Illustrated Library of Antiques Prepared by the Cooper Hewitt Museum were completed. They were: Jewelry, Silver, Toys & Games, and Pottery. These brought the series to a total of twelve volumes; an additional three have been commissioned. In association with Doubleday, Now I Lay Me Down to Eat: Notes and Footnotes on the Lost Art of Living was published in conjunction with the exhibition. More Than Meets the Eye: The History and Collection of Cooper-Hewitt Museum was published both in hard and soft cover. Rizzoli published Urban Open Spaces in book form. In connection with the exhibition, a series of Central Park Postcards was printed as well as two colorful paper constructions, Horticultural Hall and Kiosque, reprinted from lithographs in the museum’s collection.
Both brochures on the history of the Carnegie Mansion and the Cooper-Hewitt Collections were reprinted and revised. To aid
History and Art / 165

<<<Page: 181>>>

The conservatory of Cooper-Hewitt’s Carnegie Mansion brought to life the very title of the museum’s summer exhibition, Gardens of Delight. Shown in light and shadow (below) is the Hirshhorn’s Sculpture Garden, renovated, redesigned, recently reopened.

<<<Page: 182>>>

the handicapped, a Guide to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum was published in Braille and in large type-face, the latter funded by The President’s Committee on Employment for the Handicapped.
The museum accessioned 1,174 works of art from sixty-five donors. The collections were enhanced by three purchases from restricted acquisitions funds. Of particular importance was the gift of rare books on the work of Robert and James Adam by the James Smithson Society. The museum borrowed 1,317 works from 210 public and private collections and lent 198 works to forty-one museums, galleries, and institutions. The inventory of the CooperHewitt collections, begun in 1979 with an appropriation from Congress, continued. Over 134,000 articles have been inventoried and recorded on computer.
The museum undertook several construction projects in order to facilitate and enlarge storage capacity in the various departments. To house the decorative arts collections more efficiently, storage shelves in eight rooms of the townhouse were built; particular emphasis was given to the storage of the ceramics collection. The Office of the Registrar was relocated, and reconstruction was done to accommodate the registrar’s receiving and storage areas. An extensive air-vacuum system was installed in the workshop to promote ventillation and remove sawdust. The guard desk and security room were relocated and renovated to accommodate the expanded security systems.
During four semesters beginning in the fall of 1980, nearly six thousand students participated in the educational programs offered by the Cooper-Hewitt. Over four thousand took part in tours and special events. Total programs attendance was sixteen percent higher than the previous year’s total.
Coinciding with several of the exhibitions, the Programs Department organized special events and courses relating to design, architecture, and the decorative arts. Several popular programs included: Directions in Graphic Design and Architecture, Russian Constructivism, James Ackerman’s film on Palladio, McKim Mead & White, and Landscape Architecture. Extremely popular was an animated film series, and, in conjunction with Gardens of Delight, a variety of lectures, workshops, and tours.
Four credit classes on the subjects of European and American Decorative Arts were successfully instituted for undergraduates of
History and Art / 167

<<<Page: 183>>>

the Parsons School of Design. Classes tailored for children and the adult workshops continued to be well attended.
The museum benefited from the generous service of sixty-five volunteers and forty interns, who devoted their energies in all departments. The Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Program provided stipends for three exceptionally qualified summer interns.
Membership support remained constant in the form of member renewals; new applicants increased substantially.
As one of ten member institutions of Museum Mile—initiated by the Cooper-Hewitt three years ago—the museum was honored by the Mayor of New York’s proclamation to affix the title “Museum Mile” to street signs within the designated mile area.
The Cooper-Hewitt was selected as one of ten New York Museums to participate in the Cultural Vouchers Program, instituted by Museum’s Collabcrative. This allowed the Education Department to undertake additional programming involving both outreach and extensive school programs.
Several special fundraising events were held at the museum during the spring and summer. “Crafts in the Carnegie Mansion” was the first major crafts fair to be held in a New York City museum. More than one-hundred-twenty artisans from across the United States impressed thousands of museum-goers and crafts aficionados with a vast range of contemporary objects in all media. Coinciding with the summer exhibition, Gardens of Delight, a special sales shop, ‘The Trellis,” was initiated. All manner of donated merchandise with floral and botanical themes was available for sale. The museum was host for a spring gala benefit ball for over eight hundred guests. For this occasion, a Junior Committee, composed of friends of the museum under the age of thirty-five, was formed. This committee will continue to work with the museum and to plan other events throughout the year.
The museum received several important grants, both from foundations and private individuals. The extraordinary support of the Carnegie Corporation for the museum’s expansion, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for the establishment of a “revolving” fund for special projects, and the Ford Foundation for a two-year minority scholarship within the Cooper-Hewitt/Parsons graduate program in the decorative arts were among the most noteworthy.
Several museum publications received awards. The Art Libraries
168 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 184>>>

Society of New York awarded a citation of merit to the Museum for four catalogues: Hair, Tsuba, Tiles, The Oceanliner. Tsuba received an additional award of merit from The Art Directors Club for excellence in design.
The Freer Gallery of Art
The Freer Gallery of Art continued to expand its public-service program despite being partially closed for renovations for much of the year. A major step was initiated with the Freer’s first full-scale volunteer docent program to inform visitors through tours of the museum. This was supported with an expanded distribution program of free leaflets describing aspects of the Freer and its collections.
From over 125 inquiries and applications, twenty-four people were selected to participate in an extensive docent training program. The program included the history of the museum and of Charles Lang Freer as well as detailed surveys of the major parts of the collections and training in tour methods. Twenty-three volunteers were accepted provisionally into the newly established docent program.
The Freer now offers eight free leaflets to visitors and to those inquiring by mail to explain aspects of oriental art exhibited at the museum. As part of a general effort to assist smaller museums that do not have curators specializing in oriental art, the Freer made available one hundred thousand leaflets to a Texas museum this year.
Other elements in the Freer public-service program continued at the usual active pace: the Freer oriental art lecture series, special tours for various groups, identification of objects owned by the public, and staff lectures and publications.
The Freer’s twenty-eighth annual lecture series included ‘Four Popular Beauties of the ‘Floating World’ ’”” by Money L. Hickman, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, which was jointly sponsored with the Embassy of Japan, and the Rutherford J. Gettens Memorial Lecture, “Ancient Glass: Its Marvels and Mysteries,” delivered by Robert H. Brill of the Corning Museum of Glass.
The exhibition year began with a special show of twelve Japanese screens from the Rimpa School, a major tradition that arose in
History and Art / 169

<<<Page: 185>>>

Smithsonian Under Secretary Hughes, Mrs. Chun and President Chun Doo Hwan of the Republic of Korea, NMNH translator Houchins, and Assistant Secretary for History and Art Charles Blitzer point to the Freer Gallery in this Quadrangle model. Below. Shen Fu, curator of Chinese art at the Freer, demonstrates calligraphy techniques in a training session for the Freer’s first large-scale docent program.

<<<Page: 186>>>

Kyoto during the final decades of the sixteenth century and continued through the nineteenth century. The museum's curator of Japanese art, Yoshiaki Shimizu, organized the exhibition. A leaflet explaining the history and development of Japanese screens was first provided to the public when the exhibition opened.
The climax of the exhibition year was a showing of seventy-four Indian miniatures in The Imperial Image: Paintings for the Mughal Court. This collection of works is from the period 1560-1640, which represents the most important span of Islamic art in India. The definitive catalogue was prepared by Professor Milo Cleveland Beach of Williams College, the fourth Smithsonian Regents Fellow.
Other major exhibitions at the Freer included: Ancient Egyptian Art for the “Egypt Today” program; Turkish Art; Japanese Fans; Art of the Mamluks; Eastern Kufic Calligraphy; Korean Aint Japanese Ceramics; and Ceramics from the World of Islam. Since the building renovations displaced the Chinese and American art exhibitions, a representative selection was shown in the galleries on the west side of the building.
Research for the 1984 James McNeill Whistler exhibition began after the term appointment of David Park Curry as the Freer’s American art curator for a year and a half. The Freer also appointed Ellen A. Nollman as librarian. She replaced Priscilla P. Smith, who retired after fifteen years of service. Gayle Southworth was also named as docent chairman on a volunteer basis.
Among the well-known visitors to the museum this year were President and Mrs. Chun Doo Hwan ofthe Republic of Korea. They presented a gift of $1 million from the people of Korea for a new center for Eastern art. Mrs. Anwar El-Sadat, wife of the Egyptian president, again visited the Freer, this time in connection with the “Egypt Today” program. Prime Minister Suzuki of Japan was at the Freer to plant a rare white weeping Fuji cherry tree, acknowledging the Institution’s gratitude for Japan’s earlier gift toward the construction of the proposed center. A number of museum officials from the People’s Republic of China visited at various times during the year. They included Xia Nai, Director of the Institute of Archeology, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Sun Yi-qing, Vice Director of the State Administration Bureau of Museums and Archeological Data; Lii Ji-ming, Chief of the Museum Department of the State Administration Bureau for Museums and Archeological Data;
History and Art / 171

<<<Page: 187>>>

Yang Po-ta, Deputy Director of the Peking Palace Museum; Shen Chih-yii, Director of the Shanghai Museum; and Ma Cheng-yuan of the Shanghai Museum.
Notable donations to the Freer collection this year included a work of Chinese calligraphy from John M. Crawford, a Japanese lacquer drum body from the James Smithson Society, a Chinese metalwork and jar from the Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott, as well as a Chinese bronze from General and Mrs. Albert A. C. Wedemeyer. Mr. Joseph Upton donated one hundred items to the Freer Study Collection. The Hagop Kevorkian Fund contributed to the publication of the catalogue, The Imperial Image: Paintings for the Mughal Court. The National Committee to Honor the Fourteenth Centennial of Islam awarded a grant for the organization of the Myron Bement Smith archives.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
The Smithsonian Institution, and especially the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, were saddened by the death of the museum’s principal donor, Joseph H. Hirshhorn, on August 31. His death is a tragic loss to the museum that bears his name, to its board of trustees, and to everyone at the Smithsonian as well as to the world of art.
A dynamic man with an extraordinary passion for art, Mr. Hirshhorn gave his splendid collection to the nation in 1966 and continued thereafter to add to his gift until the day he died. The spirit that motivated his collecting was his conviction that art serves an ennobling and civilizing purpose, and, toward that ideal, he generously gave to his fellow-countrymen.
At the memorial service held in Washington on September 13, eulogies were delivered by, among others, S. Dillon Ripley, Senator and Board Chairman Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Abe Fortas, former Supreme Court Justice, and the artist Larry Rivers.
At the Smithsonian’s Board of Regents meeting on September 14, 1981, the following resolution was adopted, after which the Secretary and the Regents stood for a moment of silence in tribute:
Resolved that the members of the Board of Regents express their deep regret at the irreparable loss of Joseph H.
172 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 188>>>

Hirshhorn, a friend, a colleague, and an incomparable patron who shared with us all his passion for art. The Regents recall with profound appreciation his generous and lasting contributions to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, which will stand forever as testimony to this extraordinary man.
As one of the major museums of contemporary art in the country, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (HMscG) maintains an active exhibition schedule and acquisitions program. In support of these are related programs of lectures, films, concerts, and educational activities involving audiences of all ages. Technical and support units include offices of conservation, registration, photography, and a reference library.
Acquisitions are vital to any museum but especially to a contemporary art museum. During 1981 the museum acquired 323 works of art, including sixteen as gifts from Joseph H. Hirshhorn, and thirteen as joint gifts from the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Foundation and Lily Harmon. Other important gifts were received from Raphael and Rebecca Soyer, who gave the museum 192 works on paper, spanning the artist’s career from 1917 to 1981, and from Mr. and Mrs. David K. Anderson, who gave the museum forty-two paintings and sculptures in memory of Mr. Anderson’s mother, Martha Jackson. A major piece of sculpture by Paul Gauguin, Cylinder Decorated with Figure of Hina, was acquired with funds from the Regents Collections Acquisition Program and partially matched by funds raised by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Board of Trustees. Other important purchases included works by Robert Birmilin, Gregory Gillespie, and Rodrigo Moynihan.
A major exhibition during the year was The Avant-Garde in Russia, 1910-1930: New Perspectives (November 6, 1980—February 16, 1981), organized by Stephanie Barron and Maurice Tuchman of the Los Angeles County Museum and first shown there. Consisting of approximately 450 objects, it documented a period when revolutionary art and society achieved an effective, if brief, fusion. The exhibition was surrounded by a number of related events, including films, lectures, concerts, an all-day symposium, and a fashion show—sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program—that featured costumes designed by several of the artists of the period. A highlight was a revival of the avant-garde
History and Art / 173

<<<Page: 189>>>

opera, Victory Over the Sun, produced by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program and the umsc, and presented by the students and faculty of the California Institute of the Arts. The Washington, D.C., performances were made possible by a grant from the Shubert Foundation and an auxiliary grant from the Regents Educational Outreach Program.
Directions 1981 (February 11—May 3, 1981), the second exhibition in a series meant to show divergent tendencies in contemporary art, included the works of sixteen artists working in three “directions”: Artistry, Myth and Metaphor, and Social Observation. Twelve of the artists in the exhibition participated in a forum held at the museum on February 11, 1981.
Kenneth Snelson (June 4—August 9, 1981), was a retrospective exhibition, shown both outdoors and in the HMsc’s lower-level gallery, that brought together works done by this artist over twenty years. It was organized by the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo but was first seen in Washington.
Another retrospective exhibition, R. B. Kitaj, was held (September 17—November 15, 1981). It was the first comprehensive retrospective of his work to be seen in the United States and included 104 works dating from the late 1950s. Subsequent showings are scheduled at the Cleveland Museum of Art (December 15, 1980January 24, 1982) and at the Stadtische Kunsthalle, Dusseldorf, West Germany (February 5—March 21, 1982). The artist gave a public lecture in the museum on September 17, 1981.
Smaller exhibitions, based on the museum’s holdings, were of works by Jacques Lipchitz, André Masson, Robert Natkin, Barbara Hepworth, and Larry Rivers. The last had an accompanying catalogue.
A small loan exhibition of sculpture, Mahmoud Moukhtar, drawn from the Moukhtar Collection of the National Center of Arts and Letters in Cairo was presented in conjunction with “Egypt Today” from March 16 to April 30, 1981.
The Sculpture Garden was reopened to the public on September 14, 1981. Lester Collins, the Washington-based landscape architect who redesigned the garden to facilitate the entrance of the handicapped via a set of ramps, also incorporated additional planting areas and grass. Approximately seventy pieces of sculpture, all drawn from the museum’s collection, were installed.
174 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 190>>>

The HMscG continued its three-part film series: Lunchtime Films about Artists, Evening Films by Artist Filmmakers, and Saturday Films for Young People. Other events held in the auditorium were concerts by the 20th Century Consort and the Cantilena Chamber Players.
Hirshhorn Holiday, a special Saturday program presented each year early in December, again met with enthusiasm from area children and their parents. This special day, sponsored in part by the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, included performances and music.
The usc provided visitors with a variety of educational materials, including wall labels and brochures that ranged from a single page to more ambitious illustrated ““mini-catalogues,” all distributed free to the public. It is the museum’s practice to accompany all major exhibitions and selected small exhibitions with well-documented and illustrated catalogues that serve the general public as well as students and scholars.
The museum makes extensive loans from its collection to other institutions around the world; in 1981, 181 objects were lent to seventy-one institutions. Among the works lent were ten paintings to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum for its Gorky Retrospective; and four sculptures to the National Gallery of Art for Rodin Rediscovered. The umsc made significant loans to a number of foreign exhibitions, including Paris-Paris at the Centre Georges Pompidou, Paris; American Realism at the Akademie der Kunst, Berlin; and Matisse at the Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo. Through the International Communication Agency and the National Museum of American Art, the museum lent thirty-two paintings to the Museo de Bellas Artes, Mexico City, for an exhibition entitled, Painting in the United States from Public Collections in Washington, D.C. Besides individual loans, exhibitions from the permanent collection are regularly circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
The usc continued the annual inventory of its collection. Sculpture was fully inventoried in the second three-year cycle.
Augmenting the museum’s exhibition program was a series of lectures on various aspects of contemporary art and art history, by R. B. Kitaj, Dr. Peter Lizon, Robert Natkin, and Kenneth Snelson.
The Directions speakers were Conrad Atkinson, Bill Beckman,
History and Art / 175

<<<Page: 191>>>

James Byrne, Rosemarie Castoro, Debora Hunter, Alain Kirili, Grover Mouton, Tom Rose, Ulrich Ruckriem, Earl Staley, Michelle Stuart, and Jerry Zenium.
Joseph Henry Papers
During the past year, the Smithsonian Institution Press has published two major products of the Joseph Henry Papers. The first was A Scientist in American Life: Essays and Lectures of Joseph Henry, a collection of writings that express Henry’s viewpoint regarding a variety of scientific and public policy issues. Also, appearing this year was the fourth volume of The Papers of Joseph Henry. This volume covers the Princeton years 1938-40, years of intensive activity in the laboratory and rising concern for the organization of the American scientific community.
The fifth volume of The Papers of Joseph Henry is well on its way towards completion. Covering the years 1841-43, this volume represents a continuation of the two major themes of the preceding volume.
The staff of the Joseph Henry Papers has engaged in a wide range of other professional activities. Nathan Reingold served as a member of the Oversight Committee for the History and Philosophy of Science Program of the National Science Foundation and as Director of Publications of the Association for Documentary Editing. He was co-sponsor of the conference on “Scientific Colonialism, 1800— 1930: A Cross-Cultural Comparison,” held at the University of Melbourne in May under the auspices of the United States-Australian Cooperative Science Program and was co-chair of ‘Muses Flee Hitler II: Cultural Adaptation in World-Wide Perspective,” held at the Smithsonian in December. At the sixteenth International Congress of the History of Science, Dr. Reingold delivered an invited address on Henry’s reaction to Charles Darwin. He was also elected chairman of the Commission on Documentation of the International Union for the History and Philosophy of Science. Dr. Reingold continued his sponsorship of the monthly Nineteenth-Century Seminar, which explored a broad gambit of historical issues. Kathleen Waldenfels served as editor of the Newsletter of the Association for Documentary Editing. Marc Rothenberg chaired the Seminar on
176 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 192>>>

Science and its Social Context, held monthly at the Smithsonian, and addressed the Society for the Social Study of Science during its annual meeting in Toronto.
National Museum of African Art
The creation of educational, intellectually stimulating, and attractive exhibitions is a goal of all museums. But as public institutions, museums also bear the burden of making their exhibitions physically accessible to as large an audience as possible.
For the National Museum of African Art (NMAfA), 1981 has been a year concerned with the planning and implementation of access to the museum for handicapped persons, and the upgrading of all museum areas with attention to aspects of health and safety for the staff and museum visitors. New, enlarged restrooms and a ramp permitting wheelchair access to workshops and classrooms have already been completed. Future plans include the construction of an elevator, to serve all three floors of the museum, and special exhibitions incorporating ‘“hands on” concepts. The museum bulidings have been brought up to code specifications with regard to lighting, safety, and fire protection procedures and equipment. Other areas of the museum’s endeavors—acquisition, exhibition, research and programs—were also advanced during this period.
The nmafa continued to build its collection, primarily through donations. In fiscal year 1981, 278 objects were donated to the museum’s collection, including large numbers of items from the collections of Harold Rome, Robert and Nancy Nooter, and Benjamin Weiss. Through a generous bequest from the James Smithson Society, the museum was able to purchase a major work of Cameroon sculpture. In addition to works of African art the NMAfa received donations of twelve paintings by Afro-American artists, including six by E. M. Bannister, two by J. Johnston, and others by H. O. Tanner, C. E. Porter and R. S. Duncanson. The comprehensive inventory of the museum’s collection, begun in 1980, continues; it is presently sixty percent complete.
The Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives received donations of fifty black-and-white photographs of African art by Walker Evans and approximately two hundred slides of African life and culture.
History and Art / 177

<<<Page: 193>>>

Archives projects during 1981 included the expansion of the museum’s teaching slide collection by more than one thousand slides and the documentation of an important collection of black-and-white photographs of Liberia taken by Tom Weir during the 1960s.
The nmafa collaborated with several museums and cultural institutions during 1981 to cosponsor and produce major exhibitions. With the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the museum sponsored the major international exhibition, Treasures of Ancient Nigeria. Museum staff members coordinated the production of a gallery brochure and conceived, coordinated, and presented the film and lecture series that accompanied the exhibition. In another cooperative program, the nMAfa presented the exhibition Traditional Costumes and Jewelry of Egypt. This exhibition was part of a nationwide Egypt Today program coordinated by the Smithsonian Resident Associates Program. And in conjunction with the Egyptian exhibition, the nmafa presented Traditional Costumery and Jewelry of Africa, displaying jewelry of the Maasai people of Kenya and Tanzania, mask costumes of the Edo people of Nigeria and similar arts from other subSaharan peoples. Other exhibitions presented during fiscal year 1981 included the Art of Gabon, Angola and Cameroon; Selections from the Permanent Collection; and Out of the Ordinary: Ritual and Domestic Furnishings of Africa.
Numerous extension exhibitions were prepared and mounted by the nmafa during 1981. They included exhibitions at the U.S. Department of State, the Bethune Memorial Museum, the Museum of African-American Life and Culture, Illinois State University, the Kennedy Center, the College Museum of Hampton Institute, and the American Numismatic Association.
Public education with regard to Africa, its art and its peoples, is one of the primary goals of the nmafa. This is accomplished not only through didactic and aesthetically appealing exhibitions, but through the museum’s wide range of courses, workshops, seminars, public lectures, and performances, in addition to outreach programs and tours conducted by a highly trained, effective docent corps.
In fiscal year 1981, the museum’s Department of Academic Studies offered seven courses at universities and educational institutions in the Washington area: Georgetown University (“Art of Black Africa’); the United States Department of Agriculture Graduate School (“Masks in African Art,” “Collecting African Art,” and
178 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 194>>>

“Understanding Africa through Its Art’’); and a workshop, “ African Art Conservation.” In addition, special intensive lectures and tours were presented to other university groups, including, for the fourth successive year, a class in “Aesthetics and Education” for the University of Virginia.
The nmafa was host for three visiting scholars during 1981. Professor Sylvia Boone (Yale University) consulted with staff members on various exhibitions and projects. Professor Berlings Kaunda from the University of Malawi spent four months in residence at the museum with the aid of a Fulbright program grant, and Ms. Wendy Wilson of Howard University spent ten weeks in residence while researching cultural and historical aspects of Fulani facial tattooing. Professor Kaunda, a practicing sculptor as well as a scholar, demonstrated his craft in NMAfA programs and presented public lectures on East African masking traditions.
In cooperation with the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, the museum continues to cosponsor a monthly series of lectures entitled, ““The Africa Roundtable.” Presentations by international and local scholars focus on all aspects of African political, economic, and social life. Noted scholars who have presented papers during 1981 included: Akinjide Osuntokum (Nigerian Universities Commission), Joseph Smaldone (U.S. Department of State), Professor Sulieman Nyang (Howard University), Professor William Zartman (Johns Hopkins S.A.I.S.), and Mr. Curtis Huff (International Communication Agency).
Twelve students served in the nmafa’s internship program during fiscal year 1981. A special effort was made during the year to recruit minority students and students from historically black colleges, recognizing the special role the nmMafa should play in using its collection to train these students as museum professionals. Four such students served as interns during the year; two of them received financial support through the Smithsonian Institution’s Collaborative Education Program.
The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and Public Programs had an active year, presenting school and group tours, workshops, and public lectures, performances, and demonstrations. The activities of this department also include the training and coordination of the docent corps and coordination of certain collaborative activities with local institutions.
History and Art / 179

<<<Page: 195>>>

” ek)
The African Experience is part of the general tour program conducted by the Museum of African Art. Children from a local school (upper right) dance to music of African instruments, while (upper left) Alex Akoto, museum staff, assists a young man in wrapping his traditional East African clothing. The wood figure (lower left) from the Bangwa people of Cameroon represents a royal ancestor. Such figures were displayed at funerals to symbolize family power.

<<<Page: 196>>>

Of particular importance during 1981 was the inauguration of a pilot program, the Collaborative Education Outreach Program (ceor), conducted in conjunction with the National Museum of Natural History and the National Zoological Park with funds made available through the Smithsonian Office of Public Service. Ninetyeight outreach presentations were offered during the year to targeted audiences of the elderly, handicapped, and institutionalized persons.
In January and February, the Education Department focused Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and community groups because renovations in the nmafa limited access to the galleries. The department offered twenty such presentations, reaching an audience of approximately fifteen hundred persons.
Thirteen candidates completed the museum’s docent training program during fiscal year 1981, bringing the docent corps to a total of forty-eight. Docent training lectures were presented by museum staff members and by guest scholars from local universities.
More than fourteen public performance programs enlivened the nomafa’s presentations during the past year. African and AfroAmerican performances included such groups as Olatunji and the Drums of Passion, the African Heritage Dancers and Drummers, the Carifolksingers, Suad Raga (from Egypt), and the Guyana Chronicle Atlantic Symphony Steel Orchestra. Special programs and events coordinated by the Education Department during 1981 included Kwanzaa holiday events (in December) and a broad range of programs presented in cooperation with the Corcoran Gallery of Art for the exhibition Treasures of Ancient Nigeria. The nmafa looks forward to future collaborative programs with other public institutions to enable it to reach a wider audience and to present programs that offer humanistic views of African art and culture. In light of these goals, the Board of Regents voted, in September 1981, to change the name of the museum by adding the word “National” to its title.
National Museum of American Art
The change of the museum’s name, from the National Collection of Fine Arts to the National Museum of American Art (NMAA), offi-
History and Art / 181

<<<Page: 197>>>

cially enacted on October 14, 1980, confirmed its role as a center for the collection, study, and exhibiting of American art. Although its collections include works from the Orient, Asia, and Europe, its important holdings in American art very early became the basis for its present thrust. The course of this direction was ably reinforced by the untiring and dedicated efforts of Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, director of this museum from 1970. He died on April 26, 1981, and a nationwide assembly attended a splendid memorial service on May 15 in the Renwick Gallery’s Grand Salon. The assistant director, Harry Lowe, was appointed to succeed Taylor as acting director.
The autumn of 1980 was launched with an exhibition that epitomized Joshua Taylor’s approach to American art—placing a misunderstood and overlooked artist into a new and penetrating light. The World of David Gilmour Blythe (1815-1865), accompanied by a first-rate scholarly publication, revealed this little-known, pessimistic, and bitter genre painter’s world of grimy, crafty, street urchins of mid-nineteenth century America. The popular exhibition of photographs by Alfred Eisenstaedt presented quite a different vision. Germany as seen by Eisenstaedt, between the two world wars and during a later visit there in 1980, provided the focal point for a stimulating symposium organized by the Department of Education: “Germany in the 20th Century: Florescence, Destruction, Revival.” A distinguished panel of international scholars and critics assessed Germany’s contribution to modern theater, music, film, and the visual arts.
At the Renwick Gallery were two major exhibitions of far-reaching impact on today’s artists in the craft media. American Porcelain: New Expressions in an Ancient Art, a national survey of contemporary porcelain, presented traditional and awesomely daring new explorations of the medium, while The Animal Image: Contemporary Objects and the Beast gave prominence to folk art. Two other folk-art exhibitions emanated from western states. Webfoots and Bunchgrassers: Folk Art of the Oregon Country was a spritely exhibition organized by the Oregon Arts Commission; and The Grand Beehive Exhibition—focusing on Utah’s ubiquitous symbol in folk art, contemporary art, and design—was organized by the Utah Arts Council. In connection with the Renwick’s varied exhibition program and lecture series by master craftsmen, members of the gallery’s staff and the museum shops held well-attended craft
182 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 198>>>

Ryder’s House by Edward Hopper is a major NMAA acquisition. Below (from left): Amb. Hermes, the late Joshua Taylor, Alfred Eisenstaedt, and Secy. of State Haig.
Pooch
, a 4 %,

<<<Page: 199>>>

demonstrations, which included lacemaking, porcelain painting, Ukrainian egg decorating, traditional beehive-making, porcelain clay techniques, Norwegian rosemaling (rose painting), and folk carving.
Nmaa’s holdings in American art were significantly enriched by 680 accessions. Among the most noteworthy acquisitions is the double portrait of Mrs. James Smith and Grandson, painted in 1776 by Charles Willson Peale. This was a partial museum purchase and a partial gift from descendants of the sitters, Mr. and Mrs. Wilson Levering Smith, and it enhances NMAa’s growing collection of eighteenth-century portraits. In addition to acquiring important miniatures by Edward Greene Malbone and Raphaelle Peale, NMaAA received—as a gift from Mr. Chanler A. Chapman—an exceptional portrait of his mother, Elizabeth Winthrop Chapman, 1893, by John Singer Sargent. A major gift from La Salle Spier includes two oil paintings by Walt Kuhns and a rare bronze by Arthur B. Davies. As a result of an extensive gift of Mr. and Mrs. David K. Anderson, 119 works in various media with major works by such artists as Louise Nevelson, Jim Dine, Sam Francis, Grace Hartigan, and Ed McGowin were brought into the collection. Through the bequest of the Henry Ward Ranger Fund, nMaa acquired Ryder’s House, an extraordinary, haunting landscape by Edward Hopper. The Department of Prints and Drawings added to its collection a significant gift of over 150 prints from Howard Cook. With the exhibition of sixty-six prints and drawings, An American Perspective: Selections from the Bequest of Frank McClure, the department focused on the personality of a collection that was acquired in a previous year. In addition to the increase of loans of individual works to other museums, nine exhibitions—either originated by NMaa or its Reniwck Gallery—were exhibited at twenty-one other institutions throughout the United States.
Among the activities initiated this year was a series called Evenings at Barney Studio House. Programs of music, poetry, and dance in the spirit of those given by Alice Pike Barney at the turn of the century were presented in the intimate setting of the recently refurbished house at Sheridan Circle. These were organized in cooperation with the Department of Performing Arts and partially funded by the Laura Barney Trust. A concerned effort to involve members of the neighboring Chinese community with museum ac-
184 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 200>>>

Enriching NMAa’s collection of 18th-century portraits is this double portrait, Mrs. James Smith and Grandson, painted in 1776 by Charles Willson Peale.

<<<Page: 201>>>

tivities resulted in a highly successful series of lectures: “China and I,” in which participants explored, from different perspectives, their own personal relationships with China. Nearly four hundred people visited the museum on February 8 to participate in Family Day, organized by the docents and staff of the Education Department in conjunction with the Chinese New Year. The annual and ever popular Children’s Day, held this year on June 6, focused on the theme Rhythm in Red, White and Blues and was attended by three thousand adults and children who constructed puppets and musical instruments, wove fiber hangings, and created wearable art.
The highlight of the summer exhibition schedule was the handsomely installed George Catlin: The Artist and the American Indian. With William H. Truettner the curator, the exhibition presented a selection of 111 paintings—from among the 445 in the NMAA collection—by Catlin, an artist who was compelled to record, in the 1830s and 1840s, Indian portraits, hunting scenes, landscapes, and other scenes from the life of this vanishing race. The West of a slightly later time was reflected in the important exhibition that ended the year: Cast and Recast: The Sculptures of Frederic Remington, including twenty casts of Remington’s best known works.
In addition to exhibitions, acquisitions, and education programs, NMAA placed a high emphasis on developing research resources to fulfill the museum’s role as a center for the study of American art. This past year, preliminary indexing was completed of the 127,000 photographic negatives comprising the Peter A. Juley and Son Collection. A grant of $100 thousand from the Samuel H. Kress Foundation has enabled nmaa to begin printing this invaluable collection which documents eighty years of art activity in America. All records comprising the Smithsonian Art Index project have now been converted to computer format. This project, which began in 1976, records information on art objects located in the non-art museums of the Smithsonian Institution. Keeping pace with a busy and productive year throughout the museum, the Office of Publications edited nearly thirty separate manuscripts for exhibitions, special events, and educational programs. Over forty major treatments of paintings were processed by the Conservation Laboratory. The Librarian of the American Art/Portrait Gallery Library, Katharine Martinez, resigned in July to join the staff of Avery Library of Columbia University.
186 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 202>>>

National Museum of American History
On October 14, 1980, the museum doffed a traditional identity and began life afresh as the National Museum of American History (wMAH). With blue and yellow banners spread across both north and south facades announcing the new name, the one-time National Museum of History and Technology proclaimed a redefinition of its long-standing purpose—the analysis and interpretation of American history through the artifacts of American culture.
While the banners announced the museum’s redefined mission, extensive alterations to the interior spaces began to modify the public exhibition space. Escalators formerly blocking sightlines from the Mall and Constitution Avenue entrances were removed, opening the firstand second-floor rotundas to view from the main entrances. Large exhibit halls on the second floor were closed for remodeling—especially for installation of major exhibits on George Washington and Franklin D. Roosevelt, which are due to open in 1982—while on the first floor, an area once hidden behind an escalator became a turn-of-the-century ice-cream parlor, replete with an authentic soda fountain and a commercial ice-cream freezer, powered by a steam engine through a system of belts and overhead lineshafting. Of note here was the novel combination of a retail sales venture with a period-piece exhibition.
As to exhibitions, the year’s first major effort opened on November 7, 1980, The Clockwork Universe, organized by Otto Mayr and Carlene Stephens of the museum’s Division of Mechanisms, presented an elegant display of German Renaissance clocks and automata—the most comprehensive ever assembled. These came from almost sixty museums and private collections in Europe and the United States; the overall presentation (including a publication that marked a signal achievement in itself) having been made possible through a generous grant from the NCR Corporation of Dayton, Ohio. The exhibition was produced in collaboration with the Bayerisches Nationalmuseum in Munich, where it initially opened earlier in 1980.
To the people of early modern Europe, mechanical clocks and automata embodied an ideal world, rational and harmonious, and the sense of order they represented was an important component of the idealism of those who founded communities in the New
History and Art / 187

<<<Page: 203>>>

World. Such idealism, transformed by the enlightenment and modified in accord with the American experience, was central to the theme of another exhibition, “Jefferson and Science”. Documenting the curiosity, the imagination, and the world-view of Thomas Jefferson—a man who once called science “my passion’”— this display of Jefferson’s scientific instruments, his inventions, and the anthropological and paleontological artifacts he collected, was organized by Silvio Bedini, the Smithsonian’s keeper of rare books.
The museum’s exhibitions were not all concerned with artifacts of great intrinsic value or with individuals of exceptional historical repute; indeed, there were several pathbreaking forays into the realm of social history. In Buckaroos in Paradise, Richard Ahlborn of the museum’s Division of Community Life collaborated with the American Folklife Center of the Library of Congress to present an engaging glimpse at the lifestyle of cowboys in the isolated Paradise Valley of northern Nevada. Objects made and used by the buckaroos surrounded an actual bunkhouse that had been transported—board, nail, and shingle—from a Paradise Valley ranch.
In Perfect in Her Place, Deborah Warner of the museum’s Division of Physical Sciences probed the topic of women in the American workforce, dissecting the rationale for restricting them to certain types of tasks while marshaling evidence that they were employed in significant numbers in a far broader range of industries than generally recognized heretofore. Addressing the same basic theme was Images of Labor, a display of artwork organized by District 1199, National Union of Hospital and Health Care Employees in cooperation with sires and NMAH. Accompanying the exhibition were a major film series, cosponsored by the Service Employees International Union, art-cro, and a highly successful concert series, cosponsored by the Smithsonian’s Division of Performing Arts, featuring singers Joe Glaser, Steven Peter Jones, and Hazel Dickens.
Other noteworthy exhibitions that opened during the year included: The Changing American Farm, which documented the spectacular upsurge in productivity that accompanied mechanization—this display made possible through a grant from International Harvester; The American Red Cross, celebrating the centennial of this, the premier organization of its kind in the world;
188 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 204>>>

American Bowed Strings and Violin Treasures, complimentary exhibits of stringed instruments by American folk craftsmen and violins by the great Cremona masters; Roy Wilkins, an exhibit of memorabilia documenting the career of this most famous of civil-rights activists; and Platinum Women, a photography exhibition featuring the work of three turn-of-the-century New York photographers, Rudolf Eickemeyr, Jr., Gertrude Stanton Kasebier, and Clarence H. White.
While that by no means exhausts the tally of the nman’s fiscal year 1981 exhibits, there was one other that deserves more than passing mention. More than an exhibit, actually, it was in fact a “Great Event’—as was proclaimed in posters, handbills, and announcements that were widely distributed. On September 15, 1981, the nmMauH took its most venerable artifact, a 150-year-old locomotive named John Bull, outdoors for some live-steam action along the tracks of the Chessie System beside the C&O Canal. Already ranked as the world’s oldest complete locomotive, the John Bull, over the past two years, had been subjected to exhaustive tests to determine if it might also be the oldest operable locomotive. The tests indicated it was. This was confirmed to the satisfaction of thousands of spectators (and millions of Tv viewers) as a woodfire was set and John Bull steamed easily away from Fletcher’s landing, drawing a coach—vintage 1836—full of museum personnel garbed in the authentic dress of Andrew Jackson’s day. Later, John Bull brought parties of Smithsonian Regents and other dignitaries out from Key Bridge in Georgetown, to engage in celebrations on a site—railroad track beside canal—that simply could not have been more reminiscent of the first days of the Iron Horse in both England and the United States. Speeches, concerts, and cheering crowds enriched the ambience as John White, John Stine, Larry Jones, and Bill Withuhn of the museum’s Division of Transportation put John Bull through its paces.
If this was a banner year for making a living history exhibit out of one of the NMAH’s earliest acquisitions (John Bull was the first engineering artifact acquired by the Smithsonian, nearly a century ago), it was also remarkable for its new acquisitions. Outstanding among these were the Morgan Collection of historic type and typefaces, purchased out of the Regents Fund; a traveling thermometer and pocket-knife owned by Thomas Jefferson, pur-
History and Art / 189

<<<Page: 205>>>

This armillary sphere with clockwork dated to 1572 is from NMAH’s Clockwork Universe, a comprehensive show of German clocks and automata. Below. This rare 1701 violoncello made by Antonio Stradivari has been donated to the Smithsonian.

<<<Page: 206>>>

chased for the museum by the Smithson Society; the Dudgeon steam wagon of 1866, the earliest extant self-propelled road vehicle; the Faber engine of circa 1850, one of the half-dozen earliest surviving stationary steam engines of American manufacture; and the famous “Servais” violoncello made by Antonio Stradivari in 1701, a gift of Miss Charlotte Bergen.
As for the collections in general, by the beginning of July, the inventory teams at work in the museum’s storage areas, under the direction of Frank Roche, were able to report the survey of 8,366,667 objects—more than half of the total held. The completion of the Division of Conservation’s new Paper Lab greatly increased the NMaun’s capacity to treat works of art, photographs, and documents on paper; and, in September 1981—renovation of 48,000 cubic feet of environmentally controlled storage space in Building 18, Silver Hill, completed—the first major phase of a series of planned storage-facility upgradings was realized.
Yet, while the collections may be the heart of a museum, they are not, invariably, its soul. The NMAH is far more than its collections alone: in 1981, the NMAH was its public performances, notably the Doubleday Series and, most memorably, a once-in-a-lifetime vocal performance by Sarah Vaughan. It was also its public lectures, especially a consistently stimulating, weekly colloquim featuring leading scholars and experts in material culture from David Landes to David Noble. It was also its educational programs, which took new life following a reorganization under the direction of Josiah Hatch. And it was also its unswerving dedication to the highest levels of scholarship, as reflected most directly in its offer to the Society for the History of Technology to provide a home base for the society’s journal, Technology and Culture, and its commitment of Robert C. Post’s services to the editorship of that highly regarded publication.
The strength and resiliency of the nMauH lies in its sheer diversity, a state of affairs especially well confirmed in the events of 1981. There were exhibits of clocks and instruments of incredible intrinsic value, and exhibits of objects of scarcely any value, per se, but of inestimable importance in helping unravel the strands of American culture. The word “technology” came off the facade, but returned through the door in the embodiment of Technology and Culture, a preeminent historical quarterly. The most famous event concerned an artifact from England, the John Bull, whose name
History and Art / 191

<<<Page: 207>>>

was slang for the typical Englishman. Perhaps the most significant single acquisition was of a violoncello made in Cremona. Everything in the most lavish exhibition, The Clockwork Universe, was made in Germany. And yet none of this is at all incompatible with the fundamental purpose of the National Museum of American History. As Henry James once remarked, “It’s a complex fate, being an American”.
National Portrait Gallery
After almost twelve years of service, Marvin Sadik resigned as Director of the National Portrait Gallery (NPG) on June 26, 1981. Mr. Sadik came to the Gallery in July 1969 from the directorship of the University of Connecticut Museum of Art at Storrs. During his tenure in Washington, he established a distinguished tradition of special exhibitions, excellent publications, and innovative programs of public education, as well as energetic efforts to build a permanent collection worthy of the gallery’s Congressional mandate and the American people, whose history it reflects. Secretary Ripley, accepting Mr. Sadik’s resignation with deep regret, awarded him the Secretary’s Medal for Distinguished Service.
Harold Francis Pfister, Assistant Director, assumed the duties of Acting Director on February 2, 1981, when Mr. Sadik began a sabbatical, and resumed those responsibilities for an indefinite period as of June 26. A committee has been formed by the Secretary with the Assistant Secretary for History and Art, Charles Blitzer, as chairman, to seek candidates for the director’s position. Committee members include npc Commissioners Andrew Oliver and Barbara Novak, former Commissioner Edgar P. Richardson, historian Carl Schorske, and Mr. Pfister, representing the gallery’s professional staff.
Librarian for the npc and National Museum of American Art, Katharine Martinez, resigned on July 31, 1981, to accept a position at Columbia University. A national recruitment for her successor is also under way. Historian Marc Pachter began a one-year detail as visiting scholar with the International Communication Agency (formerly the United States Information Agency) on July 5, 1981. Editor of the Charles Willson Peale Papers and Historian of American Culture Lillian B. Miller was named Caroline Werner
192 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 208>>>

Gannett Visiting Professor of the Humanities at the Rochester Institute of Technology for the academic year 1981-82.
On September 11, 1981, the trustees of the Dorothy Meserve Kunhardt Trust transferred to the Smithsonian Institution all title and interest in a unique and invaluable collection of life-portrait glass-plate negatives from the studio of nineteenth-century America’s preeminent portrait photographer, Mathew Brady. The historic acquisition of this portion of the peerless Frederick Hill Meserve Collection was negotiated over a period of several months and was made possible, in part, by an amendment to tax legislation approved by Congress and signed by the president in August 1981. The amendment was introduced by Senator Barry Goldwater and enjoyed the active support of other Smithsonian regents in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. No other single acquisition could possibly have had greater impact upon the gallery’s growing collection of portrait photographs, and the work of organizing, studying, and displaying these extraordinarily important materials, which will begin immediately, is expected to take several years.
The nec has maintained active programs of exhibitions and publications during fiscal year 1981, beginning with an unprecedented study of Benjamin West and His American Students. The exhibition, which opened on October 16, 1980, was organized by Dr. Dorinda Evans of Emory University. Dr. Evans also wrote the scholarly catalogue, of the same title, published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. Following its appearance in Washington, this exhibition was sent to the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia.
The gallery was also represented outside of Washington in 1980 by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sITEs) project, Photographs from the Collection of the National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution. Selected by Curator of Photographs William F. Stapp, the show is accompanied by a sITEsproduced catalogue, on which Mr. Stapp collaborated, and was seen at museums in Arkansas, Indiana, Tennessee, and Michigan. Future bookings will take it to Alaska, South Carolina, and Florida.
On June 22, Champions of American Sport, the largest special exhibition (and among the most colorful) ever organized by the NPG, was opened following a White House reception where Presi-
History and Art / 193

<<<Page: 209>>>

dent Reagan greeted many athletes and their families who had come to Washington to participate in the ceremonies. Historian Marc Pachter, Curator of Exhibitions Beverly Cox, and Curator of Education Kenneth Yellis supervised the selection of one hundred of America’s greatest athletes and the subsequent search for more than five hundred items of portraiture, memorabilia, audiovisual programs, and relevant sport art. Mr. Pachter led staff historians Margaret Christman, Amy Henderson, and Jeannette Hussey in the writing of a catalogue to accompany the exhibition. Also titled Champions of American Sport, the book was published by Harry N. Abrams, Inc. The exhibition, on subsequent tours, moves to the Chicago Historical Society and, after Chicago, is scheduled to travel to The American Museum of Natural History in New York City, where it will close in the summer of 1982. The project was made possible, in part, by the generous sponsorship of Philip Morris Incorporated and the Miller Brewing Company.
Smaller exhibitions during 1981 have included feature installations on Bret Harte, by the Office of Small Exhibitions, and Charles Willson Peale and the Challenge of Mezzotint Portraiture and How Fleeting Is Fame (mass-produced portraits of long-forgotten nineteenth-century celebrities), both by Curator of Prints Wendy Wick. The Code Duello, Jeannette Hussey’s review of the American duelling ethic, was accompanied by a short catalogue of the same title from the Smithsonian Institution Press, as was We Never Sleep: The First Fifty Years of the Pinkertons, produced by staff historians Frederick Voss and James Barber.
In addition to these special, temporary exhibitions, the NPG rearranged and reinstalled every room in which its growing permanent collection is exhibited. The need for such long-term exhibition space led to the conversion of a third-floor mezzanine (formerly used for special shows) into a permanent area for display of portraits from the modern era.
The third of seven years scheduled for a nationwide survey of significant American portraits was completed in 1981. Funded by grants from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Thomas Mellon Evans Foundation, and the Ambrose Monnell Foundation, among others, and directed by the staff of the gallery’s Catalog of American Portraits, this program sent three field researchers to New York State, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island,
194 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 210>>>

John Singleton Copley’s 1758 oil-oncopper miniature of the Massachusetts merchant Thomas Hancock is a major acquisition of the National Portrait Gallery. Below. The polychromed bronze of Casey Stengel was featured in npG’s exhibition Champions of American Sport. The sculpture, by Rhoda Sherbell, is a recent acquisition.

<<<Page: 211>>>

and produced an estimated eighty-two hundred new records for the gallery’s master file during the year. Processing of previous year’s records continues at the npc, and computer records of the survey's results to date have been placed with eighty-five institutions in the states of Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, New Jersey, Maryland, and Pennsylvania.
The Education Department continued to expand its offerings to school groups, the general public, and special audiences that included senior citizen groups, legally blind amateur photographers, youth recreation groups, and institutionalized persons. Programs from the department were requested by groups in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, North Carolina, New York, and Iowa. The popular “Portrait in Motion” series of performances in the galleries included events based upon the music of Stephen Foster, the legacy of the civil-rights movement, and the lives of labor-reform leader “Mother” Jones, journalist H. L. Mencken, and author Mark Twain. The success of this series was attested to by a generous grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates in support of future programing.
An invitational symposium on “Presidential Biography,” on October 30, brought to the gallery three distinguished authors, Edmund Morris (on Theodore Roosevelt), George Reedy (on Lyndon B. Johnson), and Theodore Sorensen (on John F. Kennedy), and a paper was read for the incapacitated Fawn Brodie (on Richard M. Nixon).
Apart from the Meserve Collection of Brady negatives and the sole original print of the last life photograph of Abraham Lincoln (the famous “cracked plate’ image, made by Alexander Gardner just four days before the assassination) which was also acquired from the Dorothy Meserve Kunhardt Trust, 173 portraits were added to the permanent collection in 1981. Thirty-four of these were gifts or transfers. Major acquisitions by purchase included: a 1758 oil-on-copper miniature portrait of the Colonial Massachusetts merchant, Thomas Hancock, by John Singleton Copley; a rare daguerreotype of artist Thomas Eakins and his sister as children; Asher Brown Durand’s 1835 oil portrait of the influential art patron, Luman Reed; an 1899 oil of the reformer, Carl Schurz, by Daniel Huntington; and a polychromed bronze sculpture of the famed baseball manager, Casey Stengel.
196 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 212>>>

Among the most important gifts of the year were a daguerreotype of Brigham Young, presented by The J. Willard Marriott, Jr., Charitable Annuity Trust; a drawing of Lincoln Kirstein, by Pavel Tchelitchew, from Mrs. R. Kirk Askew; and Ansel Adams’s color photographs of President and Mrs. Jimmy Carter and VicePresident Walter F. Mondale, donated by Mr. and Mrs. Carter and Mr. Mondale, respectively.
Office of American Studies
The Office of American Studies (oas) continued its program in graduate education throughout the year. The autumn 1980 seminar in “Material Aspects of American Civilization” had as its theme the concept of change and material culture. Taught by the director of the program and Professor Bernard Mergen of the George Washington University, the course involved participation by members of the staffs of the National Museum of American History and the Office of Folklife Programs. Twenty-six students were enrolled.
Other seminars held during the academic year 1980-81 included “The Decorative Arts in America,” taught by Barbara G. Carson; “Folklore in America,” taught by Michael Maloney; and a summer session course on “Introduction to Folklife’ taught by Robert Sayers. Individual graduate students continued to pursue specialized research under the supervision of the director of the Office of American Studies.
During the acadeinic year 1980-81, the director of the Office of American Studies presented a paper on “The Formulation and Implementation of Indian Policy in the Nineteenth Century” at the 1980 Chancellor’s Symposium at the University of Mississippi, October 6—7, 1980; gave an address on “Personality? Party? Issue? Determinants of Success in Past American Presidential Campaigns” at the 124th annual meeting of the Chicago Historical Society, October 22, 1980; gave the conference summary at the Ethnohistory-Ethnology Conference held at Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario, October 30-—November 1, 1980; chaired a session on “American Indian Historiography: A New History?”
History and Art / 197

<<<Page: 213>>>

during the annual meeting of the American Historical Association in Washington, D.C., December 28-30, 1980; chaired a session on “Representative Institutions, 1776-1876: Ideology, Estates, and Interests” at a conference on the History of Parliamentary and Representative Institutions at Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, March 26-28, 1980; spoke on the subject of the Handbook of North American Indians to members of the Center for the History of the American Indian at the Newberry Library, Chicago, March 31, 1981; presented a paper on “The Historical Context of the Recognition Issue” at the Second Annual Cornell Native American Law Conference, April 16-17, 1981; participated in a Smithsonian archeological expedition to Kodlunarn Island, Frobisher Bay, Canada, July 30—August 10, 1981; and read a paper on “The Age of Conflict and Revolution” at a conference on “Alabama and the Borderlands: From Prehistory to Statehood” at the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Alabama, September 24-26, 1981.
Office of Folklife Programs
Most Americans would agree that the richness of the nation’s culture lies in the impressive diversity of its people and in their creative responses to historical conditions. Research, presentation, and preservation of this cultural wealth is the goal of the Office of Folklife Programs (orp). This effort entails the presentation of living folk traditions in the context of the Smithsonian. Since its inception, the orp has directed its attention to the identification and study of these folk traditions and to the development of methods for presenting them in a national setting to general audiences. As an academically oriented program, the orr also pursues university teaching, research into foreign folklife traditions to shed light on cultures that have taken root in American soil, and the publishing of documentary and analytic studies.
The orp planned and supervised the research and presentation of both the fourteenth and fifteenth annual festivals of American Folklife in Fiscal Year 1981. This congruence of festivals within the same fiscal year resulted from the decision to return the fifteenth
198 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 214>>>

festival to the summer and to hold it and all future festivals over the Fourth of July holiday weekend.
The fourteenth festival, however, was held on the National Mall October 8-13, 1980. Two of the main programs at this festival were larger versions of presentations originally designed in a smaller format for the thirteenth festival. The first of these programs presented the Caribbean folk traditions of North America and featured the largest Caribbean Carnival parade in the United States. The second featured the traditional music, dance, and crafts of Cambodian, Laotian, and Vietnamese Americans. Other presentations included the recreation of ‘“Laskiainen,” a mid-winter festival held annually by Finnish-Americans from the Iron Range of Minnesota; the building of a southern dog-trot house to demonstrate the ways in which southern vernacular architecture has developed over the past two centuries, to adapt to local climates without resorting to commercial heating or cooling systems; and the exploration of the different genres of American folk speech in an area called “American Talkers” where carnival and medicine show pitchmen, street criers, and auctioneers shared their verbal artistry.
The fifteenth annual festival returned to a two-week format and took place on the National Mall, June 24-28 and July 1-5, 1981. Evening concerts and the auction, sale, and exhibition of specially commissioned traditional southeastern crafts were highlights of the festival. The area where the crafts were exhibited and sold also included demonstrations by craftsworkers and performances by musicians from the Southeast. In an adjacent area, an old-time tent show was recreated with performers who had been part of the itinerant life of the tent-show circuit. Marking the International Year of Disabled Persons, a program was presented that featured some aspects of the folklore and folklife of the fourteen million hearing-impaired and two million deaf persons in the United States. Other festival presentations included the traditional music, dance, and crafts of Ojibwa Indians and South Slavic Americans from the Great Lakes region; Anglo-American and French-derived fiddling with the associated New England dance styles; and Hispanic and Native American participants from New Mexico, who built an adobe house and oven at the festival to illustrate the energy-efficient properties of this traditional building material.
History and Art / 199

<<<Page: 215>>>

Square dancing at NASM was produced by the Office of Folklife Programs as part of the Smithsonian’s Inaugural Week festivities. Below. Participants from New Mexico built an adobe house on the Mall in the 15th Annual Festival of American Folklife.

<<<Page: 216>>>

Finally, a special performance program offered a sampler of folk artists who have participated in projects sponsored by the Folk Arts Program of the National Endowment for the Arts.
Both the autumn and summer festivals were cosponsored by the National Park Service and the Smithsonian, and received funding support from the Department of Energy and the Music Performance Trust Fund.
In conjunction with several Smithsonian museums, the orp has been involved in five special projects during fiscal year 1981. Prior to the fourteenth annual festival, this office organized and presented traditional crafts demonstrations during the opening week of the exhibition, Webfoots and Bunchgrassers: Folk Art of the Oregon Country, which was held at the Renwick Gallery from October 3, 1980, to February 1, 1981.
On January 17 and 18, 1981, the orP presented day and evening dance concerts with Appalachian and Cajun string-band music at the National Air and Space Museum. These concerts were organized as part of the Smithsonian’s presentation of free public programming during the week of the presidential inauguration. Two months later, the orp presented a traditional western saddlemaker from Paradise Valley, Nevada, during the closing week of the exhibition, Buckaroos in Paradise: Cowboy Life in Northern Nevada, which was held at the National Museum of American History from October 1, 1980, to March 15, 1981. This exhibition grew out of a four-year collaborative effort involving the Smithsonian, Library of Congress Folklife Center, and Arts Endowment Folk Arts Program in joint endeavors in the State of Nevada.
Throughout fiscal year 1981, the staff of the orP worked in collaboration with the staff of the National Museum of American Art to plan the exhibition, Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, and continued the supervision of all research in preparation for that exhibition. Celebration, which will open in March 1982, will contain six hundred objects drawn from Smithsonian collections to fill all seven of the Renwick galleries. The objects have been chosen to demonstrate the ways in which different societies celebrate the important cycles and milestones in the lives of their people.
History and Art / 201

<<<Page: 217>>>

Finally, on September 19, 1981, the Office of Folklife Programs and the Greater Washington Folklore Society cosponsored a concert of traditional music from the Faroe Islands in the auditorium of the Hirshhorn Museum.
Collaborative work began in the summer of 1979 on a project to preserve more than 3,500 wax-cylinder recordings held by the Library of Congress. These principally contain Native American songs and stories recorded prior to 1930. Dr. Thomas Vennum, enthnomusicologist in the orp, has served as director for this project, which involves the transfer of fragile cylinder recordings to magnetic tape, the preparation of accompanying written material, and the development of suitable means for the dissemination of these historic cultural documents.
As a result of five years of research stemming from the Festival of American Folklife, Pantheon Press has accepted for publication a book by Dr. Steven Zeitlin of this office. Entitled, In the Family Tradition, this work, which Dr. Zeitlin has written in conjunction with other scholars involved in past festivals, is a collection and analysis of American family narratives and customs. Another work, a paper on the cultural implications of a solar eclipse on the Swahilispeaking peoples of the Kenyan coast, has been written by Dr. Peter Seitel, the orp’s senior folklorist. This paper was based on research undertaken by Dr. Seitel in Africa last year, was delivered at an international conference on the sun, held in India in February 1981, and will appear in the Proceedings of the Indian National Science Academy.
In August 1981, Ralph Rinzler, director of the Office of Folklife Programs, spent three weeks in Korea completing research on the Korean folk pottery known as “onggi.” This research, begun in 1971, was conducted in preparation for a monograph on Korean pottery, on which Mr. Rinzler and Dr. Robert Sayers—former Smithsonian post-doctoral fellow in anthropology—are collaborating.
With the support of the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program, research has been completed and film footage has been shot for a monograph and film on the traditions of the Kathputli puppeteers of Rajasthan, India. The project grew out of three years’ research
202 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 218>>>

in preparation for Smithsonian folk puppetry presentations in conjunction with the Thirteenth World Congress of UNIMA (L’Union Internationale de la Marionnette), which took place in Washington in June 1980. The monograph and film, to be included in the Smithsonian Folklife Studies Series, are scheduled for completion in fiscal year 1983. A second monograph/film project— which grew out of research for the Finnish-American program at the fourteenth annual Festival of American Folklife—is a study of the Finnish-American mid-winter festival called “Laskiainen,” and has been brought to the final stages of completion.
The Office of Folklife Programs has also been involved in two other film projects that are near completion. The first film documents the occupational folklife of the pullman porters who formed the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, the first black union in the United States. This film, which is still being shot, is being produced by the Columbia Historical Society in cooperation with the orp. The second film, which documents a traveling medicine show of the 1920s and ’30s, was shot in Bailey, North Carolina, using surviving medicine-show performers, and, currently in the editing stage, is being produced by the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources in cooperation with the Office of Folklife Programs.
Two visiting scholars used the Office of Folklife Programs’ archives as well as the scholarly resources of the staff in 1980 and 1981. David Whisnant (Ph.D., Duke University), associate professor of American Studies at the University of Maryland, has been working on a historical analysis of institutional intervention in Appalachia and the southeastern United States. Robert Winans (Ph.D., New York University), associate professor of English at Wayne State University, is conducting a study of the historical development and geographical distribution of traditional styles of banjo playing.
History and Art / 203

<<<Page: 219>>>

Internship and Visiting Professionals training programs of the Office of Museum Programs have grown dramatically. Theophilus Orindu, omp intern from Nigeria, prepares a screen for printing. Graphic design and production techniques learned here will serve Mr. Orindu as Exhibitions Officer at the National Museum in Lagos.

<<<Page: 220>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (cat) was established to serve the various needs of the different bureaus of the Smithsonian Institution providing advice, treatment, analysis, and the provision of objective data for scholarly studies.
In this fiscal year, cat has collected and added to its system 1,105 reprints, bringing the total up to 6,555. This includes publications from Scandinavia, Japan, Australia, and Germany, on technical matters of concern to conservators. The file on commercial materials has been updated by two hundred additions. Eighty video tapes of the Conservation Orientation Lecture series have been shown to twenty-four persons, of whom fifteen received certificates of completion. Eight others viewed selected lectures. A total of 137 cat reports, have been completed and sent out to various bureaus of the Smithsonian.
In earlier years, cat reports have been indexed by the sELGEM computer program, which has proven increasingly inadequate as the size of the file and complexity of searches grow. In association with Office of Computer Sciences, much effort is being put into a review of cat’s needs and an arrangement of the database for conversion into a private file in the Lockheed Dialog System, which will have improved search facilities. As part of this effort, over four thousand key words that appear in cat reports and another three thousand that appear in reprints have been defined for use in an authority list.

<<<Page: 221>>>

Tape slide lectures have been provided for nineteen requestors, and literature searches in cat reports and reprints, by computer or otherwise, in books and biographies, have numbered about 137. Professional visitors numbered 482.
Two visitors from the Center for Building Conservation in New York—Director, Raymond Pepi, and Sarah Stayler—visited the cat library. The center is a nonprofit institution that hopes to establish a research library on building conservation. Discussions included cataloguing options, maintenance of collections, on-line services, and manual tools for obtaining literature.
Faculty has been provided to the following workshops: Office of Museum Programs (omp) Museum Registration Methods; omp Developing, Managing, and Maintaining Collections; omp Storage and Handling; omp Principles of Conservation and Preventive Care; and omp Conservation Photography. Timothy Padfield, Supervisory Conservation Scientist, attended a conference at the Newbury Library in Chicago to advise on the rebuilding of its new exhibition area. Walter Angst edits Finwoof, journal of the AIC Specialty Group on Furniture and Wooden Artifacts.
During fiscal year 1981, two new conservators, Theresa Fairbanks (paper), and Kory Berrett (objects), and a conservation technician, Thomas Raysor, joined the conservation staff of Walter Angst (furniture), Mary Garbin (objects), and Nikki Horton (objects). Tom Raysor worked in the critical area of environmental monitoring, checking the locations of approximately eighty cat hygrothermographs located in Mall buildings as well as the National Museum of African Art (NMAfa), the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and the National Bureau of Standards.
In line with cat’s role of service to the entire Institution, the conservators are currently working on or have completed work for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites), the National Air and Space Museum (Nasm), Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Archives, Smithsonian Libraries, the Renwick Gallery, the Castle, the National Museum of Natural History (NMNH) and the National Museum of American History (NMAH). Cat has been
requested to engage in a major survey of the decorative arts collec-
206 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 222>>>

tion of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and to examine a small collection of paper and photographic memorabilia for the Nmafa.
Efforts to assist the Middle Eastern Archaeology section of the Department of Anthropology in the NMNnuH have been increased. Mary Garbin continues the extremely delicate business of excavating localized chloride corrosion found on a tiny, exquisite, bronze bull’s head while working around tiny flax strands found wound about its horns. Kory Berrett has given advice concerning storage of the curator’s study collection and now has completed conservation treatment of two bronze Etruscan mirrors (three more remain to be done), and numerous arrowheads and other small bronze finds from Tel Jemeh.
Cat has further cooperated with the nmnu by providing funds for contract-conservation and one staff member, Nikki Horton, one day a week to work with the Anthropology Conservation Lab in preparation for the major exhibition, Celebrations, scheduled to open at the Renwick Gallery next year.
Within the confines of delays caused by the ongoing curatorial inventory of nMaH collections, we have been coordinating with nmaw’s Division of Conservation, to meet the conservation needs of the curators by providing expertise in the treatment of objects of joined wood, ceramics, glass, archaeological and recent metals, leather, skin, paper and photographic materials, and, in some instances, combinations of many of these.
The historical objects of the NMauH present cat with distinctive problems. Conservators must make every effort to determine the exact nature and condition of each object presented for treatment. An intensive examination and report by Walter Angst of ‘The Emperor Maximilian’s gun’ reveals that this particular attribution may be incorrect, as surmised by the curator. Study has been precluded by poor condition of the piece. A request that the handle of a certain pitcher be replaced led Kory Berrett to discover that the identifying mark on the bottom of the object had been added at a time later than its manufacture. The curator needed no further evidence to decide that it was a forgery.
Kory Berrett has also helped the nmau by providing advice on the condition of the “Pegasus Vase” and proper packing procedures for its shipment to the Corning Museum of Glass for exhibition; by repair of several tea and coffee pots from the newly acquired
Museum Programs / 207

<<<Page: 223>>>

Boyd Collection; and by treatment of a ceramic furniture support showing exudation of salts brought about by the variable conditions of relative humidity in the storage area. In preparation for a commemorative exhibition scheduled to open in February 1982, Mr. Berrett is presently working on the repair of a brilliant blue enameled watch case that belonged to George Washington.
A large portion of Nikki Horton’s work is currently with objects for the same February exhibition. At present in the lab are George Washington’s camp stool—split down the center—and his leatherand-fabric tent carrying case, which, in its present state, a visitor described as looking “like a dead camel.” Some of Ms. Horton’s skills this year have been engaged in the preservation of an early, valuable Civil War saddle, in wretched condition; completion of a collection of twenty-three excavated flintlocks on loan from the Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Massachusetts; a cannon from the ship Defence, raised from undersea by the Navy; and two leathercovered surgical kits, complete with rusted steel instruments.
Walter Angst is working on a Renaissance Revival table depicting George Washington, also for display in February 1982. He alternates work on this piece with other jobs, such as setting in the missing pieces of veneer on a fancy tool chest and French-polishing its mahogany surfaces.
Some of the conservation efforts of cat for sites, NASM, Renwick, the Castle, the Arts and Industries Building, NmNnu and NMAH, are spent in remedial efforts such as work on objects that have been damaged as a result of neglect, mistreatment, or unsound exhibition techniques. Walter Angst inspected and advised on the enormous stone statues from the west front of the Capitol now recumbent at Silver Hill; Nikki Horton removed aeronautical medals from their encasement in a solid plastics material.
Cat attempts continually to preserve the intent of the maker of an object as well as the historic patina of time. Mary Garbin, for instance, has left in place the accretions found on the bottom of a bloodletting kit, while carefully removing those from the lid—to restore the appearance of leather—and retaining for future analysis possible bone fragments found on the instruments.
Sometimes, however, the intentions of the maker are not as the curator would like them to be: Walter Angst recently discovered that an “antique” pier cabinet is really a composite of six different,
208 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 224>>>

unrelated parts. Or, the curator wishes the object to appear “new”: in a compromise solution reached with the curator, Walter Angst, in treating a large wooden tooth used as an apothecary advertisement, left untouched a strip revealing the original construction and decoration of this object, treating the rest in accordance with the curator’s wishes, but using materials that will be, as far as we know, forever removable.
Often at the examination stage—and sometimes during the treatment process—we have sought the expertise of the caL conservation scientists. Occasionally they are stumped. A strange, darkened green accretion on the bloodletting kit mentioned above, undergoing treatment by Mrs. Garbin, could not be positively identified. After simple tests, Mrs. Garbin determined that the darkening had been caused by application (by an earlier cat conservator) of a leather dressing thought at that time to be the best preservative. Mrs. Garbin’s work also involved the lengthy sorting out of the previous conservator’s report, which falls short of the reporting standards of present-day CAL conservators in exactitude and comprehensiveness.
Another of Mrs. Garbin’s projects involves the preservation of an excavated eighteenth-century silver spoon, showing disfiguring fissures and spalling caused by sulfide and chloride corrosion. Mrs. Garbin’s investigation in the caL computerized information system revealed the dearth of conservation literature available on such a subject. She will work with the conservation scientists to determine the viability of a chemical treatment described in the only publication on the subject.
This year the conservators were joined by a Smithsonian fellow, Ira Block, a visiting scientist. His research into the effect of an alkaline rinse on the aging of cellulosic textiles resulted in indications that deionized water is not harmful to cellulosics, and that an alkaline rinse is not needed to help preserve very old cloth, but can be useful in the preservation of relatively new cloth and should be given to new fabrics used to back old cloth.
During fiscal year 1981, the conservation staff worked with the Office of Museum Programs in several areas. Nikki Horton worked with Pete Erikson to demonstrate, on video tape, the technique of making reproductions of Braille for the traveling exhibition for the blind, In Touch. Ms. Horton was also involved in planning
Museum Programs / 209

<<<Page: 225>>>

and implementation, and Mr. Berrett attended “Photography for
Conservators,” a workshop envisioned as a “dry run” effort for potential mid-career training to be held in the planned conservation school at the Museum Support Center.
Together with normal work projects, the conservators themselves continue pioneering efforts in conservation treatment. As no literature appears to have been published on such a subject, special thinking was involved in the treatment of a small brown jug decorated with a folk painting. We are not yet certain how to treat a unique pair of eighteenth-century chamois breeches in very tattered condition. And still in the closet, awaiting the proper conservation technology and expert attention, is one of the first nylon toothbrushes, its handle made of disintegrating celluloid— an excellent example of inherent vice with no immediate remedy.
Mr. Raysor processed a six-months’ backlog of requests for preservation information, sending 6,491 single sheets, comprising conservation guidelines as of the end of June 1981. His time is now available to attend to the third major duty of the cat conservation technician—fumigation of museum objects in the ethylene-oxideFreon chamber prior to their entry into the collections. He has overseen two safety inspections in compliance with the increased concern of cat for employee safety.
The use of neutron activation analysis for the study of provenance of artifacts of ceramic, obsidian, nephrite, and other materials continues to be developed by M. James Blackman in collaboration with archeologists from the Smithsonian’s Department of Anthropology as well as with the director of the University of Pennsylvania’s excavations at the site of Tel el Malyan in Iran. The work on the material from Malyan began as a project of the Fellowship in Materials Analysis and has continued. Reports of the work on ceramics and clays from Malyan have been presented at the International Archeometry Symposia in London in 1979 and in Paris in 1980. These analyses are being carried out using reactor facilities at the National Bureau of Standards (Nps), together with equipment purchased by cat for use at NBS.
The reactor at the nss will also be used in the future for the study of paintings by neutron induced autoradiography. The cat
210 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 226>>>

has arranged a contract with the Reactor Division, NBs, to design a modification of the NBs reactor for this purpose. The design will be completed by September 1981. The autoradiography of paintings from the Smithsonian Institution is scheduled to begin in April 1982.
A program of ceramic technology study is continuing with a visiting scientist, Dr. Marino Maggetti, from the Institute of Mineralogy and Petrography of the University of Freibourg, Switzerland. Problems in the diffusion of tin-glazed ceramic technology are being investigated, using the techniques of X-ray diffraction analysis, optical petrography, direct current plasmaoptical emission spectrography, electron microprobe analysis, and scanning electron microscopy.
At the International Archeometry Symposium at Brookhaven National Laboratory in May 1981, the cat sponsored a round table on “Future Directions in Archeometry.” The panel was chaired by Paul N. Perrot and was composed of twenty archeologists and archeometrists who discussed teaching archeometry, interdisciplinary research, organizing research problems, and the role of university, museum, government, and industrial laboratories. A publication is in preparation by Jacqueline Olin.
An archeological/archeometric expedition with members from caL, the Smithsonian’s Department of Anthropology, Brookhaven National Laboratory, and Parks Canada—traveling to Countess of Warwick Sound, Baffin Island, Canada—was conducted during fiscal year 1981, together with a proton magnetometer survey in conjunction with the search for evidence of smelting by early European explorers in that region.
Two publications resulting from seminars organized by cAL in conjunction with nes, Early Pyrotechnology and Archeological Ceramics, are in press.
The cat scientists have concentrated on studying the museum environment. A major preoccupation has been the investigation of the condensation within the roof of the Arts and Industries Building. For this job, we set up an environmental monitoring system, which automatically measures temperature and relative humidity at hourly intervals in remote parts of the roof structure.
Museum Programs / 211

<<<Page: 227>>>

We have convincingly explained the mechanism of the process and have also learned much about the technology of environmental monitoring. This will enable us to work on future problems of this sort much more rapidly. The work was written up for presentation to the Ottawa meeting of the International Council of Museums, Conservation Committee in September. A similar phenomenon on a much smaller scale—the inside of a picture frame—was explained in a lecture given in May to the annual conference of the International Institute for Conservation, Canadian Group, in Victoria, British Columbia.
We have just completed a survey of the fabric and the environment of the Star Spangled Banner. We tested the strength of the fiber, identified the dyes, studied the origin of the dust on the fabric, and made recommendations for its safety.
Our work on internal pollution—that is, the generation of pollutants within the museum environment—has been accepted for presentation to the biennial meeting of the International Institute for Conservation in Washington, D.C., 1982. This work comprises a review of examples of corrosion of objects caused by display conditions. We have investigated in this laboratory numerous examples, some of which are corrosion products unrecorded in the literature. This investigation is now evolving into a study of the microclimate in museums—that is, the way pollutants and air and moisture circulate in confined spaces.
In addition to this continuing long-term research, we still serve the needs, or wants, of the Smithsonian Institution by responding to an amazing variety of requests. Here are some examples taken from this year’s crop: “Does sticky plastic dough, sold to stick paper to walls, damage the paper?” Not quickly. “What was the decayed fiber clinging in traces to a bronze bull’s head dug up in Israel?’”” Linen. “What is the green corrosion product on the tip of the nose of a nickel-plated bronze head by Gaston Lachaise?” We couldn’t identify it! “What is the best paper and ink to immerse with biological specimens stored in alcohol?” We tested several and made a recommendation. “Are the lead glazes on Mexican pots sold by the Smithsonian shops a health hazard?” The glaze is sometimes soluble in these pots, which do not have the consistency of factory products. We have answered with varying degrees of success and thoroughness many such requests.
212 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 228>>>

National Museum Act Grant Programs
Through its prograrns of grants, and in keeping with the original authorizing legislation of 1966, the National Museum Act (NMA) continued to provide support for professional training for careers within the museum profession, for special studies investigating critical museum problems, and for technical assistance to the museum field. As in the past, the 1981 guidelines describing the grant programs stressed the importance of the conservation of museum collections and encouraged the submission of applications for conservation training and research projects.
In 1981, 181 applications, requesting a total of $3,426,316 in support, were received. After review by the Advisory Council, fifty-six grants were awarded with available program funds, which totaled $704,053. Thirty-two of the grants, representing $386,662 of the total award, dealt directly with conservation training, research, and studies.
A primary mandate of the NMa is to support original research projects and studies on critical museum problems, which contribute to the advancement of museum philosophy, techniques, and practices. Emphasis is placed on investigations into the properties of the artifact and conservation materials. In 1981, the NMA provided partial support for the Symposium for Archaeometry, which has become the leading international seminar in the field of the application of the physical sciences to archaeology. This twentyfirst meeting was held at Brookhaven National Laboratory in Long Island, New York, and attracted over four hundred participants from Europe, Asia, North, South and Central America. Information, provided by sessions on the chemical analysis of ancient glasses, ceramics, and other artifacts and thermoluminescence, and Carbon-14 dating, will be useful to conservators and curators as they seek to verify the authenticity of paintings and determine the age and origin of various museum and art objects. These scientific methods, when applied to museum objects, will open new doors as we seek to better understand various periods in history.
The na also encourages programs that address significant needs of museums, nationally and abroad. These projects assist museums by making available technical information in administration,
Museum Programs / 213

<<<Page: 229>>>

collections management, education, exhibition design, and other areas. This year, the Society of American Archivists received support to begin the preliminary work necessary to produce a Museum Archives Manual. The manual will provide invaluable guidance to a majority of museums in the United States unable to afford establishing an archives, yet responsible for the maintenance and care of their permanently valuable inactive records.
Of the 1981 grants supporting training, museum internships accounted for almost twenty-five percent of those awarded. One of the exemplary internship programs in 1981 initiated a positive step toward the involvement of minorities in the museum profession. The South Carolina Museum Commission has established an internship program limiting eligibility to representatives from minority groups. Their recruitment generated an impressive number of applicants, and an intern was chosen to go through the program designed to provide a maximum amount of exposure to every aspect of the museum profession. The ultimate goal of this program is to interest and train greater numbers of minority groups for satisfying careers in the museum field.
The diversity and range of research and study grants made by the Advisory Council are illustrated by all of the examples described. Throughout the year, the National Museum Act Office maintained close liaison and exchanged information with agencies and other organizations that make grants to museums. The NMA has been reauthorized through fiscal year 1982.
Office of Exhibits Central
The Office of Exhibits Central (orc) closed out fiscal year 1981 preparing a Bicentennial exhibition of great significance. By Sea and By Land: Independence With the Help of France celebrated the American victory at the Battle of Yorktown, the decisive battle in the War of Independence. The exhibition was opened with appropriate fanfare in the Lounge of the Smithsonian Castle on October 10. This was the second special exhibition to be presented in the Lounge of the Castle this year. Arts of Ancient Egypt: Treasures on Another Scale was formally opened by Madam Jihan Sadat on March 16, 1981. Both of these complex and extremely highvalue exhibitions were designed, edited, produced, installed in the
214 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 230>>>

Castle, and subsequently removed by otc with the cooperation of many other Smithsonian staff.
Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks was the most comprehensive exhibition prepared by orc during the year for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites). SiTEs continues to be a major client unit of oc, and, as in years past, more than twenty exhibitions were cooperatively produced this year. Renaissance of Islam opened in the National Museum of Natural History (NMNuH) prior to its national tour with bookings in major U.S. museums. The Space Shuttle: America’s Space Truck, prepared with the cooperation of the National Air and Space Museum (Nasm), was produced for sites in two copies, the first of which opened to the public in Baltimore, Maryland, at the time of the first flight of the space shuttle Columbia. The range of siTEs exhibitions’ designed and produced by otc continued to cover a wide range of topics in art, history, science, and technology. The most consistent aspect of oEc operations are the sites exhibitions, which account for fully one-third of o&c’s production resources.
Exhibition label editing, a highly specialized media skill, was provided by orc’s Exhibits Editors’ Office for a variety of presentations within the Institution and for the traveling exhibitions of sites. Orc editors worked with subject-matter authorities both within and outside the Institution, including curators from the Egyptian Museum, Cairo, on the Arts of Ancient Egypt exhibition. In addition, the office also edited the program book for the Festival of American Folklife, the brochure for the Office of Horticulture’s exhibition, Trees of Christmas, and the editing, design, and supervision of printing of over fifty brochures for the Smithsonian Associates Travel Program’s foreign and domestic tours.
Otc designers participated in an extremely wide variety of tasks this year. Kenneth Young twice traveled to Cairo, Egypt; James Speight gave assistance to the National Archives; and Brian Jones designed an exhibition for the National Museum of American History (NMAH), The American Red Cross: A Century of Humanitarian Progress, 1881-1981, and traveled to Miami, Florida, to supervise the initial installation of the sires exhibition, Good as Gold. William Jacobs designed the exhibitions Violin Treasures and Tuning Up! Fiddles and Bass Viols in America for the NMAH and designed the sites exhibition, Innovative Furniture in America,
Museum Programs / 215

<<<Page: 231>>>

in collaboration with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and Jim Mahoney, chief of ogc, designed and coordinated the exhibitions, Arts of Ancient Egypt and Independence With the Help of France.
The Models, Plastics and Restoration Unit completed the lifesized model of Quetzalcoatlus northropi after two years of collaboration with scientists from NMNH. Reconstructed from fossil remains, this largest known flying animal has a wing span of forty feet. The model, full-sized, weighs a mere one hundred fifty pounds and is now suspended from the ceiling in the NMNH’s new Dinosaur Hall. Other projects included the manikin for the NMAn’s First Ladies Hail presentation of Nancy Reagan’s inaugural gown and— under the direction of the Architect of the Capitol—a comprehensive modification to the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Commission’s model of central Washington, D.C.
The Freeze-Dry Laboratory, aside from its normal activities, completed training interns from West Germany, Libya, and Bangladesh this year. In September, Rolland O. Hower, supervisor of the Freeze-Dry Lab, went to New Delhi, India, to establish a freezedry laboratory in the National Museum under the auspices of The Asia Society. An additional point of pride for Mr. Hower and the orc is that his recent book, Freeze-Drying Biological Specimens: A Lab Manual, has gone into its second printing (S.I. Press).
The Exhibits Motion Picture Unit’s film, Coral Reefs, was selected by the International Communications Agency (ica) to represent the United States at film festivals in France, Brazil, Italy, Poland, Spain, and Australia. This continues a long tradition of recognition of the unit, the only full-time, in-house, exhibits motion-picture operation in American museums. The Motion Picture Unit is now completing a film conceived and produced for the International Year of Disabled Persons entitled, Come Walk With Me, a training film to familiarize museum staffs with the problems of hearing-impaired visitors. This year, Director Karen Loveland and Assistant Director John Hiller served as judges for the Council on International Nontheatrical Events (cine) Golden Eagle awards (of which the Exhibits Motion Picture Unit has won many), and John Hiller also judged Washington entries for the “Emmy” awards of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. Over twelve film projects have been in pre-production and evaluation for future work by the Motion Picture Unit.
216 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 232>>>

Considerable staff changes occurred during the past year. Ms. Linda S. DuBro, chief of the Exhibit Editors’ Office, left orc to join NASM after over seven years of highly professional performance in positions of increasing responsibility at orc. Similarly, several exhibits specialists transferred to other Smithsonian units, and at the end of the fiscal year, orc lost several staff members in temporary positions due to government-wide staffing limitations. We wish all of these orc people well and appreciate their efforts and contributions. Significant staff adjustments will be necessary during the current fiscal year to maintain the strength and flexibility of Okc.
With all of the staff changes and uncertainties in scheduling, the senior staff of ogc continued to serve as faculty in museum training programs for the Office of Museum Programs and others sponsoring professional workshops in museum exhibition practices. Assistance was also provided to other government organizations and to private museums as time was available. At least one postgraduate student was serving an internship in orc throughout the year, and several foreign museum professionals visited orc shops and consulted with our staff specialists. Training and cooperative programs are becoming more important for successful and economical museum presentations, and oEc is preparing to meet these needs. There is every indication that one of the major challenges to museums in the 1980s will be in refining the methods and procedures of exhibition design and production to maintain the highest standards within more limited staff and budgetary resources.
Office of Horticulture
During 1981, the Office of Horticulture concentrated on stabilizing its educational, research, and exhibition programs, which had been rapidly expanded in 1980 with the opening of the exhibition A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza. Without a substantial core of hard-working volunteers, the office could not have accomplished its mission since two full-time positions were lost due to personnel reductions.
During 1980, the office contributed to more than three hundred special events for the various Smithsonian Institution Bureaus, in-
Museum Programs / 217

<<<Page: 233>>>

cluding the annual Women’s Committee Christmas ball; a dinner honoring Mrs. Anwar Sadat at the Renwick Gallery; a reception honoring the delegation of Japanese Prime Minister Suzuki at the Freer Gallery in May; and dinners honoring Prime Méinister Menachim Begin at the National Portrait Gallery in August and Prince and Princess Hitachi of Japan at the Freer in September; as well as openings in most of the Institution’s museums. For these events, the office provided potted palms, floral arrangements, and, in most cases, orchids and bromeliads from the permanent collections of these genera.
The Education Division, under the direction of Ms. Lauranne C. Nash, staged the fourth annual Trees of Christmas exhibition at the National Museum of American History from December 19, 1980, to January 4, 1981. Of the twelve trees decorated and displayed, only four were repeated from years past. Most of the ornaments were handmade—reflecting the ethnic and cultural backgrounds of the volunteer groups. Tree decorations and themes included: “Bread Dough” ornaments by Ms. Robin Seckler Asjes; a ““Lady Christmas” manikin, created by Ms. Sunny O’Neil, based on an illustration from the book Things to Make that are Worth Making of 1906; the “Twelve Days of Christmas” pewter ornaments by the National Art Honor Society of Northwestern Senior High School and Ms. Nancy de Platchett; a decoupage tree by the National Guild of Decoupeurs; “Origami Around the World” by Michael Shall, Alice Gray, and The Friends of the Origami Center of America; a “Calico Christmas” tree by Nikki McKee, Mrs. Kitty Swindell, and the United States Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Home; “Hand-Painted Porcelain’ ornaments by the Potomac China Painting Teacher’s Association; a ““Grandma’s Christmas” tree by Mrs. Jeannette Whitmer; a “Ukraine” tree by the Ukrainian National Women’s League of America, Inc., and Slava Gerulak; an “Old Russia” tree by Mrs. Harry Harris in memory of her mother, Dorothy Conant Quinby; a ‘Lithuania’ tree by the National Lithuanian Trust; and “The Chrismon Tree” by The Evangelical Lutheran Church of the Ascension. All ornaments were contributed to the office and are stored for future exhibitions. This exhibition generated tremendous support for the Office of Horticulture from outside volunteers and organizations and required thousands of hours in production and installation.
218 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 234>>>

The Education Division also continued to monitor the plant accessioning and records system and is scheduled to begin computerization October 1, 1981. The accessioning system and its computerization will be based on the records system of the Plant Science Data Center of the American Horticultural Society. The horticultural book collection continued to expand in 1981 and the North Balcony of the Arts and Industries Building was selected to house the expanding collection—primarily of Victorian horticultural works.
Thanks to the generosity of the floral industry of America, the office maintained and continued to develop the exhibition A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza, which opened in July of 1980. Unique floral arrangements and rare and unusual potted plants, reflecting the era of the mid-to-late nineteenth century were displayed throughout this exhibition in 1981. Of particular note, Ms. Kathryn Meehan, coordinator of this exhibition, along with a dedicated core of volunteers, recreated Victorian Christmas ornaments and period settings in the exhibition’s parlor. Several new additions to the collection were received in 1981, including a silver medal donated by L. O. Ziebarth and embossed ‘Awarded to S. Bradley, Diploma, for Hedge Trimming, 1857” by the Illinois State Agricultural Society; a collection of metal sculptures of the state flowers of the United States done in tolé by Mrs. Helen Hornberger of Wichita, Kansas; and a collection of floral accessories and books donated by Mrs. Frances Jones Poetker of Cincinnati, Ohio. Additions to the collection of garden furnishings by purchases included two antique Wardian cases (circa 1885) and a cast-iron fern stand. The collection of nineteenth-century garden furnishings and horticultural and floral accessories has evolved into one of the finest in any museum in the United States.
The Orchid and Bromeliad Collection continued to grow. The construction of a new greenhouse, underwritten by private donors, has added approximately 3,000 square feet of production space to the Greenhouse-Nursery Division. In fiscal year 1981, Mr. Paul E. Desautels and Dr. Robert Read, newly appointed curators of the Orchidaceae and Bromeliaceae Collections collected additional plants in the Yucatan Peninsula and in Chiapas, Mexico, as well as in Panama. The collection now contains approximately 350 genera and over 2,700 species and hybrids of orchids and 15 genera and
Museum Programs / 219

<<<Page: 235>>>

700 species of bromeliads. These collections are housed and maintained at the Office of Horticulture Greenhouse-Nursery Division at the United States Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Home. The collections, along with our miscellaneous tropical plants collection, are used for exhibition and as a source of future hybridization and plant exchange programs with other botanical collections. Negotiations are well underway for a major collecting trip to Colombia in November of 1981. During the year, the office exhibited at Florafest II, which took place in March of 1981, at the United States Botanic Gardens, and at the first spring flower and garden show sponsored by the Charles County Community College, also in March. The design of these exhibitions was under the direction of Mr. John W. Monday, Assistant Director of the office, and Ms. Kathryn Meehan, Exhibits Design Specialist.
The Greenhouse-Nursery Division, under the direction of Mr. August A. Dietz IV, was responsible for the production of over sixty-five thousand annual bedding plants; thirteen thousand cut flowers; and approximately sixteen thousand seasonal plants such as poinsettias, chrysanthemums, begonias, coleus, primroses, and forced spring tulips, hyacinths, and daffodils. The division also maintained several thousand tropical plants used in special events and exhibitions, and produced and maintained approximately twenty thousand orchids and one thousand bromeliads. The collection items are rotated in the museum exhibition areas and, in particular, were a major feature throughout the year in the exhibition A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza in the Arts and Industries Building. Tours of the Greenhouse-Nursery Division facilities were arranged for the Resident and National Associates Programs, in addition to 45 tours of the growing Orchidaceae and Bromeliaceae Collections. Once again, volunteers contributed more than 2,000 hours in this division and without their help, a severe reduction in services and plant care would have occurred.
The Grounds Management Division, under the direction of Mr. Kenneth Hawkins, installed over sixty-five thousand annuals, one hundred thousand spring bulbs, twenty thousand pansies, and more than three hundred large specimen tropical standards and topiaries on Smithsonian Institution grounds. Special projects included installation of two flower shows; resodding major areas near
220 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 236>>>

the National Air and Space Museum and the National Museum of American History; installation of eighteen specimen Bradford pear trees along Twelfth Street between the National Museum of American History and the National Museum of Natural History; installation of fifteen Pinus thunbergiana (Japanese Black Pine), thirty Prunus serrulata ‘Shirotae’ (Oriental Cherry), six Crataegus phaenopyrus (Washington Hawthorn), one Metasequoia glyptostroboides (Dawn Redwood), and two Salix babylonica (Balbylonian Weeping Willow) in the newly renovated garden of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture garden; and relandscaping of the courtyard of the Freer Gallery of Art.
On May 8, 1981, Secretary Ripley and Prime Minister Suzuki of Japan, planted a specimen Prunus incisa var. pendula alba, the white weeping Fuji cherry, on the north circular drive of the Freer Gallery of Art to commemorate the prime minister’s visit.
In June of 1981, the Office of Horticulture, in conjunction with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, opened Gardens of Delight (formerly referred to as Horticulture and the Decorative Art. This exhibition highlighted museum artifacts related to horticulture and included prints and drawings, porcelain, jewelry, and furniture, as well as living plants from the Office of Horticulture collection. The office lent a major portion of its Victorian garden furnishings collection for the duration of this exhibition, including a magnificent threetiered fountain (circa 1875) for the conservatory, six garden benches and settees, two plant stands, ten urns, three posey holders, a parlor aquarium-terrarium, and three wreaths decorated with dried herbs and flowers typical of the nineteenth century. In addition to the exhibition, Gardens of Delight, the office was successful in developing a cooperative display program with the Horticultural Society of New York for the Cooper-Hewitt Conservatory. In this program, the office will provide seasonal plants for the Conservatory, and the Horticultural Society will provide for their maintenance. In addition, from time to time, the Society will feature collections of plants from their members.
In June 1981, Mr. James Buckler was appointed to the Advisory Board of the Accokeek Foundation, operator of the National Colonial Farm in the Piscataway National Park in Accokeek, Maryland; and for summer of 1981, he was awarded a three-month
Museum Programs / 221

<<<Page: 237>>>

sabbatical to work on a book, The Horticultural Extravaganza of the Victorian Era, to be published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. Scheduled for completion in the spring of 1982, the book will be the culmination of ten years’ research on Victorian horticulture. Ms. Kathryn Meehan, a volunteer on historic horticulture, will collaborate with Mr. Buckler on the publication. During Mr. Buckler’s sabbatical, Mr. John W. Monday assumed the Acting Directorship of the Office of Horticulture.
Throughout the year, the office worked on plans for the new “East Garden.” Located between the Arts and Industries Building and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, it is due to open in the spring of 1982. Many of the plants for the garden are being propagated at the Greenhouse-Nursery Division. The garden will feature plants of herbal and medicinal value, textured and fragrant foliages, and brilliant-colored foliage or flowers. All plants are being selected to enhance the enjoyment from the five senses. A magnificent Victorian cast-iron fountain (circa 1875) will be placed in the center of this garden which will also be furnished with nineteenth century urns and garden settees. Initial funds for this project were provided by the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.
The year was particularly active for Mr. James R. Buckler, director of the office, who presented lectures throughout the country, many for the Smithsonian National Associates Program and the Smithsonian Resident Associates Program, and others for private and scholarly organizations having an interest in the history and evolution of horticulture, floriculture, and garden and floral design. In addition, Mr. Buckler continued to publish his monthly column “Flora Smithiantha” in the Smithsonian Torch. An article entitled, “Victorian Gardening: The Smithsonian Approach,” appeared in the spring issue of Nineteenth Century magazine of the Victorian Society in America.
The office assisted all of the bureaus in planning interior plants as part of their exhibitions. In particular, two exhibitions at the National Museum of Natural History, 5,000 Year of Korean Art and Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks, required many plants to provide a sympathetic ambience. The office designed, installed, and maintained the plantings for the exhibition, Egyptian Antiquities, in the Smithsonian Institution Building; and a new
222 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 238>>>

exhibition area was developed in the north foyer of the National Museum of Natural History for displaying orchids, bromeliads, and exotic tropicals from the office’s greenhouses. Over all, the Office of Horticulture maintained more than thirty-five hundred plants in the interiors of the Smithsonian Institution buildings.
Once again, the Office of Horticulture benefited immeasurably during 1981 from the help given to its programs by informed, hardworking, and dedicated volunteers; many of these programs could not have taken place without this generous help.
Office of International Activities
The objects of cultural history and the specimens of natural history preserved in Smithsonian museums, as well as the professional people who study and exhibit them, are employed in a global research and education process. The Office of International Activities (ora) contributes to this process by fostering international dimensions of Smithsonian programs. It does so by advising program managers and by maintaining liaison with the United States and foreign governments, with private institutions around the world, and with international organizations.
O1a support for Smithsonian programs during fiscal year 1981 resulted in the signing in December 1980 of a Smithsonian agreement to foster joint research with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, People’s Republic of China. Subsequently, the Chinese Academy approved four projects from a Smithsonian joint research program submitted to Vice Premier Fang Yi in April 1980. Joint research began in July 1981 when three Chinese scholars joined the Pleistocene archeological excavation in Colorado, under Dr. Dennis Stanford of the Department of Anthropology.
In the fall, Dr. Richard Grant of the Department of Paleobiology was scheduled to visit China to collect and study Permian brachiopods of South China, and a Chinese ornithologist was scheduled to begin a two-year term of research at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama under an exchange proposed by Dr. Martin Moynihan. For the fall also, the Chinese Academy’s Institute of Oceanology at Qingdao invited Dr. Robert Higgins of the Department of Invertebrate Zoology to collect specimens and to
Museum Programs / 223

<<<Page: 239>>>

lecture and advise on meiofaunal research. In addition, the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies expects a Chinese environmental chemist, sponsored by the Office for Environmental Protection Leading Group of the State Council, to arrive in the fall of 1981 to join in studies over the next two years. And finally, in the cultural realm, Julian Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service of the Smithsonian, traveled to China as a member of an International Communications Agency delegation planning cultural exchanges.
The Office of International Activities supported 119 similar Smithsonian collaborative projectswith other nations during fiscal year 1981. Of special interest were two Smithsonian-sponsored exhibitions from the Middle East. Renaissance of Islam; Art of the Mamluks will circulate in the United States under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. The second exhibition, The Arts of Ancient Egypt; Treasures on Another Scale, was part of the “Egypt Today” symposium sponsored in the Washington area by the Resident Associates Program. Supporting the Resident Associates Program also, the o1a organized an adult course entitled “Vicarious Visits” to foreign embassies in Washington.
In support of foreign participation in Smithsonian programs, persistent work by the ora on visa procedures for foreign scholars and students culminated during the year in more simplified and flexible procedures. Sixty-one cases were processed in addition to the administration of the exchange visitor program, under which seventy-one foreign professionals joined Smithsonian programs during the year.
Eighty-two programs were also arranged for visiting foreign dignitaries, numbering 276 persons, including sixteen groups totaling 117 persons from the People’s Republic of China alone. Thirtyeight programs of other institutions at home and abroad were assisted in developing contacts with the Institution.
Office of Museum Programs
The purposes and goals of the Office of Museum Programs (omp) are being fulfilled by coordinated activities that are woven into a
224 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 240>>>

total museum training, information, and services program of the Smithsonian Institution.
Omp organizes and conducts a group of distinct but inter-related activities and services for the professional enhancement of museum personnel and institutions, throughout the United States and abroad, and research into methods that will improve the effectiveness of museum operations.
The office offers museum training workshops, arranges for internships, short-term professional visits, foreign professional training; produces and distributes audiovisual presentations on conservation theory and practice and educational programming; undertakes studies to evaluate museum exhibitions and educational programs; provides training, technical assistance and consultation services for Native American museums; maintains a museum reference center consisting of books, periodicals, research papers, and documents on museums and their operations; and offers counseling services on museum careers, training, and museum practices.
The grouping of these functions into one program facilitates the Institution in responding effectively and directly to the multitude of requests received from museums throughout the United States and abroad for assistance and guidance in improving their own operational methods, practices, and techniques. It utilizes the diverse and extensive Smithsonian resources, which can contribute to the betterment of museum operations generally, and has the added benefit of keeping the staff of the Institution informed and aware of museological developments elsewhere.
The omp sponsors an annual schedule of threeto five-day workshops, which provide training opportunities for museum professionals from the United States and abroad. The workshops, which are held at the Smithsonian Institution and on-site, focus on current theories and practices in the field, and make both human and material resources available to the larger museum community. National surveys are undertaken to determine the needs in the field. The Smithsonian Workshop Series draws faculty members from the Institution’s staff; occasionally, an outside expert will join the program to offer specialized information or to speak from a particular perspective. Subject matter covers a broad range of topics
Museum Programs / 225

<<<Page: 241>>>

including exhibition design and production, registration methods, membership development, collections management and maintenance, grant solicitation and administration, educational programming, evaluation, museum-shop management, docent training, security, archives administration, and museum management.
During 1981 enrollment for the workshops averaged eighteen per program; over five hundred professionals participated in the sessions. Enrollment represented all types and disciplines of museums, and a broad geographic distribution, including most states in the continental United States and Alaska and Hawaii. In addition, professionals came to the Smithsonian from Canada, Great Britain, Nigeria, and Venezuela to participate in workshops.
The omp also offered a series of workshops for Smithsonian staff. Programs in this series included museum lighting, packing, and shipping; automation in museums; and photography for conservators. Close to one hundred fifty Smithsonian staff members took part in these programs.
In addition to administering these programs, Training Program Coordinator Nancy L. Welch developed on-site workshops in cooperation with the National Park Service and the Southern Arts Federation. With this cosponsorship, and at no cost to the Institution, a total of five programs were presented by Smithsonian faculties to professionals in the field. The on-site workshops provided professional training experiences to over one hundred individuals representing member museums of the Southern Arts Federation and exhibits staff of the National Park Service. The on-site workshop programs with both organizations continue to be a strong and beneficial element of their training offerings; it is anticipated that these programs will continue and grow during 1982.
The Smithsonian omp Internship Program offers specialized training in museum practices to undergraduate and graduate students and professionals employed in the field. Individuals from the United States and foreign countries are eligible to participate in the program. During 1981 the program, coordinated by Mary Lynn Perry, placed seventy-two individuals in internship positions throughout the Institution; of these, twenty were from foreign countries: Australia, Bangladesh, Colombia, Great Britain, India, Israel, Kenya,
226 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 242>>>

Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, and West Germany. The internships sometimes carry credit; they provide no stipends for participants. The average length of an internship is four to six months, with shorter or longer programs available.
As with the workshops, the focus of the internships is on museum practices; intern assignments may involve assisting in administration, education, collections management, conservation, registration, exhibit design and production, and curatorial departments. Long-term interns, especially those from foreign countries, often elect to travel as part of their program; in such cases, the OMP prepared itineraries to include appropriate museum visits throughout the United States. In rare cases, arrangements with foreign museums also may be made. Interns participate in a wide variety of programs in addition to their assignments; the omp coordinates monthly meetings, lectures, and special presentations by foreign interns to supplement the interns’ museum experiences.
In addition to the workshop and internship programs, the omP offers a specialized service for museum professionals who are interested in training but are available only for short periods. Through the Visiting Professionals Program, museum professionals gain access to collections and Smithsonian staff for specialized work and consultations. The Visiting Professionals Program is designed to serve individuals who are available for training periods of up to one month, and who are interested in a combination of meetings, workshop activities, demonstrations, and research opportunities. The office also schedules museum visits throughout the United States and abroad for individuals enrolled in this program, provided that such meetings would be beneficial to the participants’ training needs. During 1981 a total of one hundred ninety-seven individuals were served through the program. The participants represented museums throughout the United States, as well as the following foreign countries: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, East Germany, Egypt, France, Iceland, India, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria, New Zealand, Switzerland, Syria, Turkey, Venezuela, West Germany, Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe.
Museum Programs / 227

<<<Page: 243>>>

Omp interns come from the world over and work throughout the Smithsonian. Represented in this group are the U.S., West Germany, the Philippines, Kuwait, Libya, Cuba, Austria, Argentina, Nigeria. Below. Interns from Bangladesh and West Germany prepare a speci-
men for freeze-dry taxidermy.

<<<Page: 244>>>

Programs in the training category of the omp have experienced dramatic growth this year, particularly the Internship and Visiting Professionals programs. Cooperative programing with colleges and universities has increased, as has cosponsorship with other federal agencies, foreign governments, and funding organizations. This growth is projected into 1982, as well, and is being supported by allocation of a permanent, full-time staff position responsible for administering these programs.
Expansion is also anticipated in the workshop activities of the OMP, with an emphasis on on-site and regional offerings.
The Audiovisual Loan Program with its distribution system for the Conservation Information Program, offers museums and related institutions a selection of ninety-three videotape programs and fourteen slide presentations on short-term loan. Most of the offerings are productions of the Conservation Information Program and deal with the museum environment, the preventive care of paper, textiles, metals, basketry, books, and other materials.
Audiovisual presentations continue to be among the most effective ways of conveying information on basic principles of conservation, and of creating an awareness of the need for caution and care in the application of these principles to museum collections. Two slide presentations on historic preservation were produced by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, and are being distributed by the omp. In addition, there is a short museum education series and a new folklife series of six videotapes (produced by the Office of Folklife Programs).
The Audiovisual Loan Program began in 1974 as a result of the slides and videotapes produced by the Conservation Information Program two years earlier. Since then, 4,493 presentations have been sent on loan. During 1981, 486 slide shows and 431 videotapes were requested by, and lent to, 63 institutions. In the Audiovisual Loan Program, 1981 marks a milestone. All statistical data from inception in 1974 to date, have been entered on a computer and can be sorted by state, program title, or date.
Since the loan program is limited to the United States and Can-
Museum Programs / 229

<<<Page: 245>>>

ada, a sales program was initiated in 1976 in response to requests from foreign countries. In 1981, seventy-eight slide shows and twenty-one videotapes were sold in the United States, Canada, and foreign countries, including Switzerland, Puerto Rico, Denmark, France, Australia, England, Scotland, Kuwait, Korea, and China.
This year demonstrated a remarkable need among museums for easily accessible printed materials on museum conservation and education. In 1981 the omp staff revised and up-dated over 500 pages of printed support material (such as script, bibliography, glossary, and supply lists) that accompany the slide shows and videotapes. This material was organized into 17 technical booklets by presentation title. They were made available through the annual brochure. As a result, 538 requests were filled for 6,552 technical booklets.
The Conservation Information Program, which is coordinated by Elena Borowski, strives to increase its information services to museums by producing more programs and booklets for distribution and by collaborating with other Smithsonian divisions in their production efforts.
In 1981 two major videotapes, funded by Smithsonian Educational Outreach Funds, were completed for distribution through the loan program. Museum Careers—a series of videotaped interviews with museum professionals—attempting to offer a practical view of museum work behind the scenes, is aimed at students and guidance counselors interested in careers in museums. Museum Accessibility for the Visually Impaired is the Audiovisual Loan program’s tribute to the International Year of the Disabled. This videotape, as the title suggests, offers some practical techniques in making exhibits more accessible to visitors who are legally blind, but partially sighted. A slide show, The CAL Tour, was produced for use by the Conservation Analytical Laboratory to help orient visitors.
In the course of 1981, Pete Erikson and Eleanor Crow assisted other Smithsonian units in the production of videotapes and films. The video production unit alone performed over 264 services to various Smithsonian units. Notable productions assisted were: Printmaking Methods of Mary Cassatt, a videotape jointly produced by the Amon Carter Museum and the National Museum of American Art; Walk with Me, a film for the hearing impaired, produced by The Film Unit of the Office of Exhibits Central; and
230 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 246>>>

Baseball Clown, Country Music Concert, and The Kurt Weil Concert, videotapes produced by the Division of Performing Arts.
The Native American Museum Training Program has continued to provide workshops, internships, and technical assistance opportunities to Native American museum personnel under the direction of Dr. James A. Hanson and Nancy Fuller. Through a Department of Labor contract negotiated in April 1980 and extended through fiscal year 1981, the Office of Museum Programs conducted the following activities.
Two on-site workshops of three days each were conducted by Smithsonian faculty during fiscal year 1981, bringing the total number of participants served since April 1980 to one hundred nine in six workshops. One workshop held at the Newberry Library in Chicago, examined ways of improving communication and management skills; the other, held at the Palace of the Governors in Santa Fe, New Mexico, investigated the principles of exhibit design and production.
Twelve individually designed internships, varying in duration from one week to a month, were placed at the Smithsonian Institution and other appropriate museums throughout the country. The focus of the internships is on learning specific museum practices, collections research, or exhibition techniques. Participants were from the following tribes or organizations: Gila River Arts and Crafts Museum, Arizona; Maidu, California; Makah Cultural and Research Center, Washington; Museum of the Cherokee Indian, North Carolina; Navajo, New Mexico; Oneida Nation Museum, Wisconsin; Port Gamble Klallam, Washington; Sac and Fox, Oklahoma; Suquamish, Washington; and Tlingit, Alaska. Since the inception of the training program, forty-five Native American internship opportunities have been offered through this program.
On-site evaluations and technical assistance were provided by the program along with major studies undertaken at the Standing Rock Sioux Museum, North Dakota; Yakima Cultural Center, Washington; Museum of the Cherokee Indian, North Carolina; Native American Center for the Living Arts, New York, and the Oglala Sioux Parks and Recreation Board, South Dakota.
An additional service of the program was the availability of an ethnographic conservator who provided needed technical informa-
Museum Programs / 231

<<<Page: 247>>>

tion, served as training faculty, and, in some cases, provided necessary conservation work on certain irreplaceable items currently held by Native American museums.
This year has been productive in the Museum Reference Center (mrc) with the continuing primary functions of reference assistance and organization of the collections. While researchers are sometimes able to come to the center, most can only take advantage of the services and facilities at long distance. Specific questions are answered with materials found in the subject collection, while responses to general questions often take the forms of bibliographies. There are now forty bibliographies on basic topics of museology available for free distribution, and the set was updated this year with a new title added on museum membership groups.
Researchers include museum professionals and students, and in the past year there have been visits by the introductory classes in museology from nearby universities for an orientation to the collections in the Museum Reference Center and an introduction to bibliographic access to the literature in this field. Classes came from the Museum Studies Programs at George Washington University, University of Maryland, and the University of Delaware, and from the Museum Education program at George Washington University.
Many foreign visitors continue to use Museum Reference Center services and visit the center. Following the 1com meeting in Mexico, there were visits by museum professionals from Finland, India, Australia, and Africa, and at other times from Egypt, Bulgaria, Jordan, Iceland, Yugoslavia, and Canada. One of the Australian visitors represented a museum studies program in Prahran and, while here, selected from the mrc duplicates collection a group of materials that would be helpful in his program. A similar selection is also to be sent to a newly organized museum documentation center in Yugoslavia.
In addition to advising foreign visitors, Librarian Rhoda Ratner continues to hold orientations for omp participants and interns, individually and in groups.
The collections, with some coming from noteworthy sources, show rapid growth. As a result of research done by Inez Wolins,
232 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 248>>>

assistant coordinator of education at the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art at Cornell, a body of literature on programming for family groups was donated to the center.
Communication with Maxine Gaiber of the Education Committee of the American Association of Museums (AAm) resulted in that committee encouraging their membership to send their own materials to the Museum Reference Center, and a partial result of this contact was research material from the Museum Education Roundtable. The Institute for Museum Services forwarded materials from their reference collection as well as support materials from grantee of Institute for Museum Services.
During 1981, the National Museum Act (NMA) final-report collection was reviewed to assure completion. A thesaurus of indexing terms for this collection has been developed and is being reviewed by na staff. When implemented, this will constitute a machinereadable record of the na final reports with printouts available in a variety of formats.
At the AAM meeting in Boston in 1980, Mrs. Ratner co-chaired a session on museum libraries presented from the librarian’s point of view. As a continuation of that topic, at the 1981 aamM meeting in Indianapolis, Mrs. Ratner co-chaired a session on the role of the museum library from the museum professional’s point of view. Also at the 1981 meeting, she chaired a meeting of the ad hoc committee on museum libraries to discuss future activities of museum librarians in the aam. The session proceedings of the 1980 meeting have now been published and are available as a free publication from the Office of Museum Programs.
Another publication of the omer, Museum Studies Programs in the United States and Abroad, is now out of print and being updated and revised. Over four hundred letters and data sheets were mailed to those institutions currently represented in the booklet as well as other organizations identified as possibly having programs to be included. The arrangement and verification of the data received is being accomplished through the use of volunteers, and it is anticipated that the new edition will be ready early in fiscal year 1982. Over seven thousand copies have been distributed free of charge since 1976.
Upon request Mrs. Ratner visited the 1com Documentation Centre in Paris, surveyed their collections, and met with the staff
Museum Programs / 233

<<<Page: 249>>>

on topics of mutual interest. There has been discussion with the National Museums of Canada and the 1com Documentation Centre about the possible cooperative development of a machine-readable data base of museological literature, and the 1com Documentation Centre has already begun the project with the formulation of a thesaurus for indexing these materials. The first draft is now completed, and a copy was sent to the mrc for suggestions and comments.
Based on statistics for the first eleven months of this fiscal year, 1,862 researchers have used or been served by the Museum Reference Center. Extrapolation for the twelfth month predicts approximately two thousand patrons for this collection.
During the past year, the Museum Evaluation Studies program, Roberta Wolf, Ph.D. evaluator, has accomplished important developmental and inquiry related projects. Additionally, in-service help has been provided to the omp through the Office of Museum Programs Workshop Series, and to various other agencies such as the National Park Service in Harper’s Ferry, the Rock Creek Park Visitor Center, and the National Education Association.
The following projects were undertaken:
1. The Hirshhorn Visitor Analysis, analyzing visitor perceptions of the “Hirshhorn Experience” and making specific recommendations for extended informational presentations and educational orientation, was completed in November 1980.
2. The second cycle of the Hirshhorn Outreach Project for Gifted and Talented Youth was conducted during the fall and winter of 1980/81, and a final report was prepared in the spring of 1981. This study assessed the specific cognitive gains of students involved in the outreach effort and measured the attitudes of students, teachers, and parents towards the program’s accomplishment. Recommendations were made for developing materials from this project and disseminating them on a national level.
3. The study of the Hall of Evolution exhibition at the National Museum of Natural History—aimed at assessing the pedagogical effectiveness of an exhibition designed to “teach” evolutionary concepts and content to the visiting public—was completed in March 1981. In addition to measuring what visitors learned, infor-
234 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 250>>>

mation on personal response was also collected so that comprehensive recommendations could be developed. These recommendations focused on designing exhibitions that impart conceptual knowledge.
4. At the Hirshhorn, the study of a special exhibit was undertaken during the summer of 1981. A direct outgrowth of the first visitor analysis, the study was concerned with how visitors respond to a didactic presentation about a Gauguin woodcarving. It was completed in September 1981, and represents significant research, focusing on learning in an art museum.
5. The study of the Coral Reef Exhibit at the National Museum of Natural History was completed in September 1981. It involved both a formative and summative component and helped design the exhibit as well as assess its impact. Recommendations focused not only on the Coral Reef, but on other exhibits that will eventually be part of the Sea Life Gallery.
6. A project measuring the label-reading behavior and comprehension levels of deaf children in response to an exhibit about Anna Cooper, the famous black educator, was begun in the Spring of 1981 at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. The study will not be completed until the fall of 1981.
7. Informal, formative-evaluation counseling was provided to the Exhibit Planning Committee of the upcoming Celebrations exhibition at the Renwick Gallery. The effort focused on goal articulation, conceptual presentation, and thematic label development. A brief report that provided criticism of draft labels was submitted to the planning committee.
The past year was extremely productive, and the study reports have yielded important ideas on how museum-learning can be enriched and enhanced. Work towards future appraisals must now focus on evaluation utilization to insure that emerging insights can become operational and be implemented through new exhibits and programs.
Career counseling for over one-hundred people per year, who are interested in the museum field or career changes, is a subsidiary activity of the omp, along with organization of national and international conferences. Resource materials are compiled, and staff
Museum Programs / 235

<<<Page: 251>>>

members serve as consultants for other museum-studies programs. The staff of the omr also serve as advisors and consultants to other offices and departments of the Smithsonian Institution, such as International Activities, Symposia and Seminars, sI-ALI-ABA Law Conference and Programs for the Disabled. Over one hundred consultations were provided on museum practices and organization during 1981, including persons from other countries—such as Brazil, Canada, The Peoples Republic of China, Taiwan, India, France, Philippines, Great Britain, Kuwait, Jamaica, The Netherlands, Australia, Zimbabwe, Morocco, Mexico, Egypt, West Germany, Switzerland, Zambia, Nigeria, Japan, Costa Rica, Bulgaria, Korea, and Austria—as well as the United States.
Staff members of the omp annually serve as speakers at regional and national museum conferences, provide consulting services, and are actively engaged in international museum activities. Program Manager Jane Glaser serves on the board and as secretary of the 1comM Committee on Training, and on the aam Council; serves as chairperson of the Smithsonian Institution’s committee for planning of the Conservation Training Program and the Audio-Visual Advisory Committee, as well as the Coordinator of metric conversion at the Smithsonian. A metric awareness campaign was launched at the Institution with distribution of materials and a “pilot” metric training workshop.
A national survey on conservation needs and job analysis, and a Smithsonian Institution survey on audio-visuals were conducted and completed in 1981. Among the activities in 1981 for the omp’s program manager were presentations to the District of Columbia Street Academy, District of Columbia Arts, Vincennes University class in Museum Studies, university presidents from India, international visitors, Fort Wayne Historical Society, Sandy Spring Historical Society, Museum of Natural History Docent Council, 1com delegation from Finland, University of Indiana Symposium, AAM session on professional development and mid-career training, ICOM Committee on Training, and the Association of Interpretive Naturalists.
In 1981, the Office of Museum Programs, and the United States International Communication Agency cooperated to create a multiregional group project entitled “Education in Museums.” This project brought together museum educators from the countries of Brazil,
236 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 252>>>

Canada, Colombia, Mexico, Nigeria, Syria, and Venezuela for an in-depth look at museum education programs in Washington, D.C., New York City, San Francisco, Denver, Santa Fe, Fort Worth, and New Orleans. The project began with a three-day seminar on Museum Education Programs at the Smithsonian Institution, which provided the necessary background and a basis for discussion and comparison with programs the participants were to see in other cities. This joint program will be an annual event.
Office of the Registrar
Though seldom called upon to conduct operations in connection with exhibits, the Office of the Registrar becomes involved with exhibit logistics occasionally when some special event is held by the Institution itself, rather than by one of its museums. One such occasion arose in the spring of 1981, when the Smithsonian, participating in the activities related to the “Egypt Today” program, mounted an exhibition of artifacts from ancient Egypt in the Smithsonian Institution Building. Bringing the artifacts to the United States and returning them to Egypt safely, providing hospitality for the Egyptian museum officials who accompanied them, and arranging for the security of the material while they were in Smithsonian custody occupied much of the staff’s time for a number of weeks.
Except for this unusual event, activities during the year followed the pattern already established for ongoing programs. To fulfill its responsibility in monitoring and reporting on progress in collection inventories, the office developed a status-report format, showing progress at a glance, and began issuing such reports on a regular basis. Drafts of bureau collections-management policies are still being processed for approval. In order to insure consistency in the process, the office has developed a standard checklist of over fifty requirements that a management policy must meet before it can be recommended for approval. Review reports showing where drafts fall short of requirements are being used by the bureaus to revise their policies.
With coordination provided by the office, the Registrarial Council continues to function as a medium for cooperation among the
Museum Programs / 237

<<<Page: 253>>>

registrars of the individual bureaus and for the exchange of information on professional matters of interest to them. The workshop on computerization for museum collections, initiated a few years ago—as an annual event for external audiences—has increased in popularity both inside and outside the Institution. Already being offered several times a year for Smithsonian staff members, it now is being offered twice, rather than once, a year for museum professionals outside the Institution.
Smithsonian Institution Archives
During 1981 selection and preservation of archives continued in the National Museum of Natural History, the National Museum of American History, and the National Museum of American Art. Work began on an archival program for the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the National Portrait Gallery, and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Records disposition schedules were established for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, the Office of Personnel Administration, and the Management Analysis Office. Disposition of records under established schedules continued in the Office of Plant Services, Accounting Services, and the Smithsonian Institution Employees Federal Credit Union.
The Smithsonian Institution Archives (s1a) cooperated closely with the Society of American Archivists on a project to plan national information systems for archives and manuscripts.
Two students spent time in the s1a in 1981: Anthony Cass, a student intern, partially processed the Charles P. Alexander papers as a project for a class in archives administration at the University of Maryland; and Gary Sue Goodman, a graduate student at Stanford University, received a fellowship to work in the sra on her projected biography of Caroline Healy Dall.
Scholars continued to visit the sta during the past year. Several recent publications have appeared, based at least in part on materials in the Archives. Among them are Nathan Reingold, ed., The Papers of Joseph Henry: January 1838—December 1840, the Princeton Years (Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981); Paul
238 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 254>>>

Russell Cutright and Michael J. Brodhead, Elliott Coues, Naturalist and Frontier Historian (Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois Press, 1981); Frank N. Schubert, Vanguard of Expansion: Army Engineers in the Trans-Mississippi West, 1819-1879 (Washington: United States Government Printing Office, 1980); Frank Spencer, “Ales Hrdlicka, M.D., 1869-1943: A Chronicle of the Life and Work of an American Physical Anthropologist,” Doctoral dissertation, University of Michigan, 1979; and Sally Gregory Kohlstedt, “Henry A. Ward: The Merchant Naturalist and American Museum Development,” Journal of the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History 9 (1980): 643-61.
Work in progress includes a study of the Yellowstone expedition of 1873, a history of the Theodore Roosevelt/Smithsonian African expedition of 1909-1910, a history of ornithology in North America, a history of the California Academy of Sciences, and a history of the American Documentation Institute. Other projects under way are an investigation of Gerritt S. Miller’s role in the Piltdown man controversy, a history of natural history museums in the United States, a history of the American Ornithologists’ Union, and a study of the invertebrate collections of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, 1854-1858, as well as biographical studies of Alexander Wetmore, Amos Kendall, Joseph LeConte, and Annie Trumbull Slosson.
Major accessions were received from the Office of the Secretary, the Under Secretary, the Assistant Secretary for Science, the Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, the Assistant Secretary for History and Art, the Assistant Secretary for Administration, the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, the National Museum of American History, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the National Museum of Natural History, and the Office of Design and Construction.
Other accessions of note included the records of the Audubon Naturalist Society of the Central Atlantic States, Inc., the papers of Ashley B. Gurney, Charles P. Alexander, Philip Wolle, and W. A. Archer, as well as additions to the papers of Douglas Emlong, Fred L. Whipple, Watson M. Perrygo, James A. Peters, Harry H. Knight, Hartley H. T. Jackson, Waldo L. Schmitt, Alexander Wetmore, William Foshag, Paul S. Conger, and the American Ornithologists’ Union.
Museum Programs / 239

<<<Page: 255>>>

The Archives Oral History Program continued, with interviews of two Smithsonian administrators. Materials accessioned and prepared for research use during the year included interviews of Jennie V. Emlong, by Clayton E. Ray of the Department of Paleobiology, concerning the fossil marine-mammal collector, Douglas Ralph Emlong; and of Richard Eliot Blackwelder, formerly of the Department of Entomology curatorial staff. A narration by Lucile Quarry Mann of the National Zoological Park for a film of the 1940 Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Liberia was also taped.
In 1980 the sta, the National Anthropological Archives, and the Archives of American Art conducted the second annual workshop for museum archivists. The workshop, which was sponsored by the Office of Museum Programs, attracted twelve participants—eleven from locations throughout the United States and one from Argentina—who were provided with the information necessary to establish an archival program in their respective museums. The workshop will become an annual event.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (s1L) embodies and continues a tradition of library service provided for in the Foundation Charter of 1846. In the mid-1960’s Secretary Ripley, realizing that the Smithsonian needs orderly and speedy access to information, reorganized from various quasi-independent library units and collections an institution-wide system called “‘the Smithsonian Institution Libraries” and placed it under the leadership of one director.
In fiscal year 1981 no new libraries were added to this system, and the projected branch library for Horticulture was cancelled due to personnel and space restraints. The libraries at Fort Pierce, Florida, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Joseph Henry Papers, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the National Museum of American Art/National Portrait Gallery—representing about twenty percent of the Institution’s library expenditures—are outside the sit system and are discussed elsewhere. The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts libraries are totally separate from the sit.
240 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 256>>>

Comprising some thirty-five geographically dispersed branch and satellite libraries, the sit is organized on the model common in major North American universities, effecting centralized economies of administration, collections and systems planning. In 1981 branches of the sit operated in Cambridge, Massachusetts; New York City; the Washington, D.C., area; and the Republic of Panama.
The sit is organized in three operational divisions: Bibliographic Systems, concerned with automated control of all sm inventories and providing standard descriptions of all holdings; Collections Management, responsible for policies, acquisition, preservation, and housing of library collections essential to Smithsonian work; and Research Services, charged with direct, personal assistance to, and interpretation for, the scholarly clientele of the libraries. The sit, led by the director and associate director, is assisted by staff for finances, personnel, systems and planning, special events, and public programs.
The sit is financed chiefly from the federal budgets granted by Congress; in fiscal year 1981 these federal monies were $3,003,900, or 93 percent of sit operations. The remaining 7 percent, or $208,000, came from Smithsonian Institution trust funds. The sit budgets represent about 2 percent of all Smithsonian expenditures, federal and trust.
In addition, during fiscal year 1981, the sit obtained two grants. One for $19,500 is from the Atherton Seidell Fund to automate old serial-catalogue records. The second, $5,000, is from the Smithsonian Institution Women’s Committee as a demonstration grant to explore the costs of indexing, restoring, and preserving a portion of the siu’s trade literature collections.
The sit was authorized some one hundred four federally funded, full-time and temporary positions at the beginning of fiscal year 1981. However, due to mandated cutbacks and a seven-month hiring freeze, an average of eighty-six full-time persons were actually on board throughout the fiscal year. In addition to federally funded positions, the siz has nine employees supported by the Smithsonian
Museum Programs / 241

<<<Page: 257>>>

trust funds. The reduction of personnel resulted in curtailment of some services in sit branches, slowed the rate of cataloguing in o'der collections not yet under bibliographic control, and necessitated a deep reliance on volunteers.
In October of 1980, a report on the state of the Libraries was presented to the Secretary and his executive committee, and a summary, entitled Smithsonian Institution Libraries: A Perspective, was published. That report raised two basic issues: the need for a comprehensive, information management strategy in the Institution; and the fact that about twenty percent of library activities of the Institution were outside the professional sit administration.
The director of the sit, in that presentation and elsewhere, urged a clarification of these issues because of the radically new and promising world information order that had evolved in the 1960-80 period. This was but a weak adumbration of what would be normal by the end of the 1980s.
These observations have been pursued by the Smithsonian Institution. A white paper on the topics was assigned to, and issued by, accomplished editors. Furthermore, a team of knowledgeable persons was assembled for a lengthy inquisition into the nature and state of libraries in the Smithsonian. Microfilming in the Institution is being examined, and the computer services have undergone scrutiny. A routine internal Smithsonian audit of the sit was made, underlining the need for greater funding to solve problems of security, loan records, and cataloguing backlogs. Armed with this information, the Smithsonian Institution is in a stronger position at the end of 1981 to articulate anew its policies for the diffusion of knowledge via its libraries and other information agencies.
This division of the sm provides the bibliographic linkage for the entire sIL system; it was reorganized in 1981 to move more rapidly toward total automation. A dramatic step forward was taken in closing all sm card catalogues—both central and in branches—and in beginning a single, s11-wide catalogue, distributed in the form of computer-output microfiche. This Smithsonian Institution Libraries Catalogue is cumulated quarterly and up-dated by weekly supple-
242 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 258>>>

ments; it holds all sm records generated in machine-readable form since 1974.
A second major development in Bibliographic Systems was the beginning, in mid-1981, of a large study involving many siu staff and directed toward the planning for a single, integrated, electronic system that will control the data for all acquisitions, cataloguing, inventory, binding, and loans and provide management data as well as other services. This “total system” is scheduled to be operational in late 1983.
The Atherton Seidell Fund grant permitted sit to begin conversion of its serial records into machine-readable form so that they can be integrated into the total automated system and be accessible everywhere. The specifications for this complex task were finished in 1981.
Siz continues to contribute and receive cataloguing data cooperatively through the Online Computer Library Center (octc), a bibliographic utility based in Colombus, Ohio. Use is also made of the Research Library Group’s utility, Research Libraries Information Network (ruIN), in Stanford, California, and the automated name-authority files of the New York Public Library’s system (LIONS).
The sit devoted considerable effort in 1981 to continue monitoring the major North American bibliographic ulitities to determine the best route for st. developments.
The sit has grown in the number of its branch libraries and in its collections since the mid-1960s. In fiscal year 1981, recognition of the acute space problems confronting the entire sit system, the need to better coordinate acquisitions, the demand for updated and comprehensive collection policies, and the crisis of conservation for unique and valuable materials led to the foundation of the Collection Management Division and the appointment of the first chief, Mr. Jack Goodwin, the nationally known bibliographer for the history of technology.
The major accomplishment of this division, in addition to the closer attention to actual purchases, was the editing of the sim’s first comprehensive collection policy. Also, a profile study of the actual
Museum Programs / 243

<<<Page: 259>>>

si collections, indicating strengths and levels of sophistication, was published in 1981.
The sit Book Conservation Laboratory, a model of its type and part of the Collection Management Division, continued the restoration of physically endangered and scholarly valuable sit materials. The structure and chemistry of the books in sit collections are the focus of a professional staff of four, assisted by volunteers and interns. In addition to restoration of paper and bindings, the laboratory, elaborated on its code of ethics in handling scientific and cultural rarities, continued to monitor atmospheric conditions in library and book exhibition areas, reviewed standards for bookbinding let on contract, and maintained the sit Disaster Preparedness program.
The sit space needs were studied, and recommendations were incorporated into 1983 budgets. The sit Research Annex at 1111 North Capitol Street, Washington, D.C., received increasing numbers of books in 1981 and will have reached saturation point by the end of 1982.
The Research Services Division provides assistance to scholarly clientele and the Smithsonian administration. These services are located in the various, geographically dispersed, s1t branch libraries, as well as in the sz Central Reference and Loan Unit, located on the Mall in Washington.
Research Services Division has been without a permanent division chief during most of 1981. Sylvia J. Churgin has led the staff since January, 1981, when Jean Chandler Smith retired.
The patterns of near-autonomy existent in branch libraries before Secretary Ripley’s organization of the Smithsonian’s book collections into one academic research unit—the sit—have continued more or less, here and there. Starting in calendar year 1981, the efforts of the sit director to define standards and assign accountability and resources—while accenting an integrated circuit of information services, comprising one library system—seem novel to some sit branch personnel. However, the dialogue of performance plans and evaluations is lending clarity to the process. It is particularly stressed that the Research Services Division personnel are to be relieved of many administrative and cataloguing tasks and left to concentrate on direct services to clientele and on the creation of
244 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 260>>>

scholarly bibliographic aids. A statement on the meaning of research librarianship in the Smithsonian was begun in 1981 by the director and the Research Services librarians.
A significant and growing characteristic of research librarianship is the gradual shift from book-based to machine-assisted reference service. By the end of fiscal year 1981, six sit reference librarians had been trained or up-dated in the use of some one hundred fifty, commercially available, on-line data bases. While most of this searching is done in Central Reference, about twenty percent is performed in the branches.
The interlibrary loan transactions of str have grown due to the greater knowledge of resources which on-line reference services have provided to sit clientele. Another factor in increasing loans is the demand placed on the sit by scholars elsewhere who can now see via their terminal screens materials held by the sit. To facilitate these loans, the sit employs traditional interlibrary loan request forms, electronic mail requests (via the octc network), and telefacsimile transmissions. In 1981, telefacsimile machines were added to more sit branch locations.
For the first time, st. Research Services staff prepared a comprehensive set of guides to all collections and branches of the system and developed many specialized bibliographic tools. These will be published in 1982.
Public programs sponsored by the sit have included exhibitions, lectures and publications.
SIL Lecture Series
To illuminate significant items of the sm collections, the history of libraries and books, or important developments in information technologies, st. began in 1981 a series of occasional lectures. The first, by Charles M. Goldstein, Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications, National Library of Medicine, concerned optical disc technologies. The second lecture honored the collector and donor, Dr. Bern Dibner, on the anniversary of the third edition of his Heralds of Science, which sit copublished with the Burndy Library, Norwalk, Connecticut; Professor L. Pearse Williams, Cornell University, historian of science, entitled this address, “Heralds
Museum Programs / 245

<<<Page: 261>>>

and Historians of Science: A Tribute to Bern Dibner.” Dr. John Brooks, Environmental Biology Section, National Science Foundation, delivered the third lecture, in honor of Jean Chandler Smith, former sit administrator. Dr. Brooks’s presentation, “Alfred Russel Wallace: Darwin’s Secret Source,” discussed the bibliographic and textual detective work he engaged in to clarify Wallace’s role in developing the theory of evolution claimed by Charles Darwin. Also in 1981, sit held an invitational bibliographic seminar to deal with manuscript and edition problems of the French naturalist Baron Georges Cuvier.
Exhibitions
In addition to special displays, which the various branches mount from time to time, st. sponsored the following official exhibitions: Early Museums, May—November, 1980; Heralds of Science, MayJuly 1980 and March 1981; John Wesley Powell, December 1980— April 1981; Children’s Books, August 1980-April 1981; Alfred Russel Wallace, May-July 1981; and Selections from the John H. Phipps Gift, September 1981. An exhibition catalogue, The John H. Phipps Donation, appeared in September 1981. The sit exhibits were held either in the Dibner Room, Museum of American History, or in the lobby of the National Museum of Natural History.
Publications
In addition to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries Catalogue and the exhibition catalogues, si continued its management of a translation and publication program based on excess foreign currency (P.L. 480); thus, Birds of the Chukchi Peninsula and Wrangel Islands, by L. A. Porteko, and Electrochemistry: History and Theory, by Wilhelm Ostwald, appeared.
The sit publishes a monthly newsletter with broad distribution to sit staff, to the Institution, and to the national library community.
RESEARCH ASSOCIATES AND INTERNS Unique collections and special opportunities related to the sit’s position as largest library system serving a national museum and research complex, urged the sit administration to appoint its first Research Associate (for eighteenthand nineteenth-century, natural history bibliography) and accent anew its intern program.
246 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 262>>>

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Three complex exhibitions, many years in negotiation—with considerable funding from various sources and with elaborate publications, educational, and public relations programs—kept the total number of new exhibitions low and the amount of staff effort at a peak. The exhibitions were Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks, Innovative Furniture in America, and Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery.
Renaissance of Islam was the most complex exhibition the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites) has ever organized. Esin Atil, of the Freer Gallery of Art, was curator of this exhibition that had over one hundred artifacts, including glass, ceramics, stone, textiles, manuscripts, and metalwork from the thirteenth to sixteenth centuries, and was drawn from collections in Egypt, Syria, England, France, Canada, and the United States. United Technologies Corporation was the national corporate sponsor, with additional funding from Trans World Airlines and other private sources. sites produced interpretive booklets, docent guides, and a thirty-second television public-service announcement to assist participating museums. Sites worked with the Smithsonian Institution Press, which published the catalogue by Dr. Atil. The Museum Shops arranged for sale merchandise, and the Office of Grants and Risk Management, in conjunction with sires, had the arduous task of applying for and receiving federal indemnification for the tour.
Innovative Furniture in America, a major retrospective of nineteenthand twentieth-century furniture-making—where noteworthy mechanical gadgetry made furniture that folds, retracts, reclines, and changes form—opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in January 1981. The exhibition was designed by the Office of Exhibits Central. Srres’s guest curator was David W. Hanks. With funding support from two sources, sites published an interpretive brochure and a full-color poster.
Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery, organized jointly by the Corcoran and sites, with funding support to the Corcoran from the National Endowment for the Arts, opened at the Corcoran in the fall of 1981. Sites published a 208page catalogue, an interpretive booklet, and a curriculum guide, produced a 30-second public-service television announcement, and will
Museum Programs / 247

<<<Page: 263>>>

hold a series of educational outreach seminars in late 1981 and early 1982 in conjunction with the exhibition.
Other major exhibitions beginning tours in 1981 were Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art, The Contemporary American Potter: New Vessels, and What If You Couldn’t ... ? An Exhibition About Special Needs.
Exhibitions negotiated through the sites International Program, in addition to Renaissance of Islam, included Venini Glass, A Feast of Color: Corpus Christi Dance Costumes from Ecuador, and Treasure of the Quicksilver Galleons. The most exciting development of the International Program was the support of the U.S. International Communication Agency for a siTEs proposal for an exhibition of paintings by American Impressionists. The exhibition, also supported by the Armand Hammer Foundation and other private sources, will open at the Petit Palais, Paris, in March 1982, in conjunction with a number of events, and will tour four East European countries. SiTEs is working with the Smithsonian Institution Press to publish the catalogue, brochure, and poster in five foreign lan-
guages, and with the Office of Telecommunications to produce a —
twenty-eight-minute film on the subject. Increased sites international travel was necessary in 1981 to realize this expanded program. Places visited included Australia, Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, East and West Germany, Egypt, Syria, The Netherlands, Denmark, and England.
SitEs’s education department has continued to produce innovative programs and publications, including Picture It!, a book on photography for young adults, and a book on digging and processing clay and making simple pots, Pottery: A Notebook for New Potters.
The sites publication proeram produced a total of fifteen catalogues, eleven brochures, and eight posters, including those already mentioned. A departure from exhibition catalogues and brochures was the publication of Good Show! A Practical Guide for Temporary Exhibitions. Sales of the book on exhibition installation are brisk, and the text is being adopted for many university courses in exhibition design.
Sites produced public-service television announcements to accompany four exhibitions: Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks, Innovative Furniture in America, Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery, and Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art. There were 129 articles on sites exhibitions in national maga-
248 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 264>>>

zines and major newspapers representing a total circulation of 29 million people, in addition to hundreds of articles in regional newspapers nationwide. The most innovative project was the production of a sites shopping bag to accompany an exhibition entitled, The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art. The bags were donated to sites by the Equitable Bag Company and were produced from a design commissioned by sites. The bags are provided to exhibitors and were a success at the annual meeting of the American Association of Museums, where sites had a booth in the traveling exhibitions exchange room.
Sites continues to provide a full range of exhibitions and educational programs to museums and their publics. Sires remains committed to providing high quality programs at the lowest cost possible, and to working with colleagues in the field to meet special
interests and needs.
% ¢ % a ‘We 3 : omy
SiTEs continues to provide a full range of exhibitions and educational programs to museums and the public. Here pieces of the sires show Images of Labor are installed by staff of the Museum of History and Industry in Seattle, Washington.
Museum Programs / 249

<<<Page: 265>>>

Number ‘of ibookings: 103.2. ee eee 587 Number of states served (including Washington,
BGA AN! SAL eR aie 49 Estimated/audience). ius Mae A ae 3.5 million Exhibitions listed in last Update (catalogue of
Sires exhibitions) io.ve ania eee eee a eee 105 Exhibitions produced for tour during the year ..... 20
American Drawings III
Artists and Space Flight
Beauties of the Coral Reef
Black American Landmarks
Collages: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
A Collector's Eye: The Olga Hirshhorn Collection
The Contemporary American Potter: New Vessels
A Feast of Color: Corpus Christi Dance Costumes from Ecuador
Images of Labor
Innovative Furniture in America
Loose the Mighty Power
Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art
Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery
Pressed on Paper: Fish Rubbings and Nature Prints
Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks
The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art (2 versions)
Treasure of the Quicksilver Galleons
Venini Glass
We'll Never Turn Back
What If You Couldn't... ? An Exhibition About Special Needs
250 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 266>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum (ANM) continues to pursue the development of its research initiative in the area of multi-ethnic and Afro-American history and culture. The exhibition Anna J. Cooper: A Voice From The South is but one example of the level of scholarship and the quality of work attainable by anm staff, now discernible in this museum’s presentations.
Well received as ANM’s major exhibition for 1981, the Cooper show included original artifacts as well as documents and memorabilia associated with the long and productive life of the subject. Yet with limited viewing space, it will be necessary to close the show on September 30, 1982.
The first major publication concerning Dr. Anna J. Cooper, ANM’s book, entitled Anna J. Cooper: A Voice From The South, has been acclaimed for its design and the sensitive treatment of the subject. A significant contribution to the history of minority women, the Cooper book takes into account more than a century of American race relations.
Ancillary educational programs that supported and highlighted the Cooper exhibition included an original play and a series of guest lectures by the subject’s former colleagues and students.
During fiscal year 1981, ANM made plans to exhibit, in 1982, the work of three Afro-American artists. In addition, research staff developed and scripted a lobby exhibition, Mary McLeod Bethune and Roosevelt's ‘Black Cabinet’, in conjunction with the Institution’s

<<<Page: 267>>>

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum continues to pursue development of its research initiative in multi-ethnic and Afro-American history/culture. This portrait of Anna J. Cooper (ca. 1923) by Addison Scurlock (courtesy Mrs. Regia Bronson and Ms. Regina Smith) is from aNnm’s exhibition Anna J]. Cooper: A Voice From The South.

<<<Page: 268>>>

centennial observance of the birth of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Also, research staff has continued its investigation in support of the scripting, design, and fabrication of a major exhibition for anm in 1983 entitled, The Renaissance: When the Negro Was In Vogue.
By far the most significant single development of the year was the suggestion made by Secretary Ripley, during the June Executive Committee meeting held at the anm, itself, that a committee be formed and planning begin on a proposal for a better future home for the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.
Clearly, anm has outgrown its present facilities and is in genuine need of enhanced accommodations in which to continue providing exhibitions, educational programs, and scholarly research for the public.
A second major event during this past fiscal year was the completion and signing of a renewed mission statement for the ANM. This mission statement reinforces the role and function of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, which from its inception “was conceived as a community-based center which would be a cultural resource for the people, young and old, of the Anacostia Neighborhood, as well as an example and a source of materials for similar institutions elsewhere.”” While there are several specific applications of this general concept, the first one says that, ‘“The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum should continue to be a neighborhood institution which, while it may focus especially upon the history and culture of Anacostia as a local community and collect objects related to that focus, should above all be a center for experimentation in the ways museums can reach and involve segments of the population they are not now reaching.”
Together these two highlights of the year lifted our spirits, captured our imaginations, set our sights higher, and enabled us to see the start of an exciting new chapter in the continuing existence of this unique museum.
Division of Performing Arts
Performances bring life and context to the collections and exhibits of numerous Smithsonian museums. The Division of Performing Arts (DPA) maintains a high level of program and production ex-
Public Service / 253

<<<Page: 269>>>

pertise that sustains series of public concerts and special events. In 1981, these performances included Baroque and Classical period — music using instruments from the collections of the National Museum of American History; Romantic period music performed in the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery; contemporary music in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; exhibit-related music and theater at the National Museum of American Art; salon music at Barney Studio House; and programs of Asian dance, music, and theater at the National Museum of Natural History.
American culture was represented by programs of jazz, musical theater, country music, gospel music, dance, and chamber music performed on the stage of the Baird Auditorium. Resident ensembles, established by the ppa played frequently in Washington museum settings and, on tour, performed in fourteen other cities.
Large-scale celebrations were produced during the Christmas/ Hanukkah holidays, in the spring, and on July Fourth. These celebrations combined music, dance, theater, and demonstrations that documented American traditions and illuminated the exhibits of the National Museum of American History.
Performances were supplemented with conferences on the legacy of pioneer gospel composer, performer, publisher, and arranger Roberta Martin and her historic vocal ensemble, The Roberta Martin Singers; lecture demonstrations of Asian dance and theater; films on jazz and American dance; and participation in symposia.
Presentations are combined with education in the Discovery Theater where more than sixty-five thousand children each year attend performances that are supplemented by learning guides for coordination with classroom projects. Eight month-long performances were produced in 1981 on the theme “Plays, Players and Playmaking.”
A sample of participating artists in 1981 included: Steve Lacy, Jackie McLean, Gerry Mulligan, Lee Konitz, Bobby Hutcherson, and Walt Dickerson and the Smithsonian Jazz Repertory Ensemble, directed by Bob Wilber (Jazz Series); Kabuki and Kathakali Dance (World Explorer Series); Marion Williams, Harmonizing Four, and the Scott B. White Family (Gospel); Bobby Bare, Mac Wiseman, Buck White, Patsy Montana, Pee Wee King, and Redd Stewart (Country Music); Howard (“Sandman”) Sims, Chuck Green, Bunny Briggs, The Repertory Dance Theater of Utah, Douglas Dunn, and
254 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 270>>>

apes. if
Dra-sponsored performances at the Smithsonian included the Repertory Dance Theatre of Utah, whose Rachel Nelson reconstructed the Scarf Dance of Ruth St. Denis. Below. The American Boychoir performed with the Smithsonian Chamber Players in the Messiah.

<<<Page: 271>>>

Sage Cowles and Molly Davies (Dance Series); Smithsonian Chamber Players, Romantic Chamber Ensemble, Emerson String Quartet, and the Twentieth Century Consort (Chamber Music Series).
The scholarly work of the pra includes research projects in the history of jazz, the history of American musical theater, black American culture, and performance practices in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Publications are in the form of documented recordings. Issued in 1981 were Handel: Seven Concerti Grossi, Opus Three; Twentieth Century Consort I; Symphony in Black; The Smithsonian Collection of Classic Country Music; At Home Abroad; Louis Armstrong and Sidney Bechet in New York: 1923-— 1925; and Duke Ellington: 1941.
International Exchange Service
Since 1851, the International Exchange Service has provided a system whereby learned societies in the United States can exchange their publications for those of foreign organizations. This program has continued through the years, and, by this method, many colleges, universities, scientific societies, and medical and dental libraries exchange their current and duplicate publications with similar organizations in other countries.
During fiscal year 1981, publications were received from more than three hundred organizations in the United States for distribution overseas and from more than five hundred foreign organizations intended for U.S. addresses.
The service was designated, in 1886, as the bureau through which U.S. government publications are exchanged with foreign governments for their official publications. The exchange includes the daily issues of the Congressional Record, Federal Register, and the weekly issues of the Compilations of Presidential Documents, plus all other publications designated by the Library of Congress for depository libraries.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
A firm belief in the power of museum objects as educational resources is the guiding principle behind the activities and pro-
256 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 272>>>

grams of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (orsE). With the conviction that it is equally as important for students to learn to use works of art, natural history specimens, historical artifacts, and other museum objects as research tools as it is for them to use words and numbers, OESE continues to serve the Smithsonian’s education offices while working to meet a solid commitment to foster the educational uses of museums in the Washington, D.C., area and throughout the nation.
The celebration of the International Year of Disabled Persons in 1981 enabled ofse to expand its commitment to make Smithsonian education programs accessible to disabled visitors and to help Smithsonian staff become aware of the special needs of disabled people. Working with a committee of interested staff members, OESE sponsored a series of lectures on the lives of famous disabled persons who have contributed significantly to the Smithsonian. The series included lectures by Stanley Mohler on Wiley Post, David McCullough on Washington Roebling, Rosalyn Terborg Penn on Harriet Tubman, and Edmund Morris on Theodore Roosevelt. ‘“The Kids on the Block,” an internationally known puppet group, gave a series of performances to increase the awareness of all Smithsonian staff members of the needs of disabled persons. Oese, with advice from a special education committee of disabled and able-bodied professionals, continued to work with bureau education offices to adapt educational programs to the needs of disabled visitors. The Special Education Advisory Committee members for fiscal year 1981 were: Latham Breunig, Edward Carney, George Covington, Sharon Gibson, Deborah McGrail, Harold Mayers, Robert Meyers, Deborah Sonnenstrahl, William Varrieur, and Sandra Hopfengardner Warren. Some of the programs developed were: sign interpretation classes for volunteers and staff, conducted at both beginning and intermediate levels; sign and oral interpreters, provided for performances and special events such as puppet shows and the Festival of American Folklife; a training film on deaf awareness; a summer course for hearing-impaired children; and brochures for mentally retarded visitors to the Festival of American Folklife.
On the local level, ofs— continues to offer a number of programs that have proven successful in the past. Let’s Go (a monthly newsletter) and Learning Opportunities for Schools (an annual
Public Service / 257

<<<Page: 273>>>

A firm commitment to foster educational uses of museums in Washington and throughout the nation guides activities/programs of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. To celebrate the International Year of Disabled Persons, OESE sponsored lectures on famous disabled persons who contributed significantly to the Smithsonian. Here author David McCullough lectures on Washington Roebling.

<<<Page: 274>>>

brochure) inform teachers of the ever-growing variety of Smithsonian services available to students. Multiple copies are sent free of charge to approximately twelve hundred schools in the Washington, D.C., area.
In December 1980, the fourth annual “‘Teacher’s Christmas Program” was held at the National Museum of American History. A special Christmas tree decorated by the teachers with ornaments made by area school children was a highlight of this year’s program. In May 1981, the eighth annual “Teacher’s Day” brought more than one hundred Washington-area teachers and Smithsonian staff together for activities at the Museum of African Art. More than three hundred teachers participated in a summer program that included courses on such subjects as “Using the museum to teach writing skills,” ‘Victorian architecture,” and “Teaching about the nineteenth century through museum objects”.
In addition to these programs for local teachers, two one-week summer workshop sessions were offered to teachers nationally. These courses, held at the Smithsonian, involved classroom teachers, school librarians, and curriculum specialists from twelve different states and two foreign countries in graduate-level work accredited by the University of Virginia. Using Smithsonian collections and exhibits, course participants learned how to employ objects, portraits, and related community resources, such as historic houses, as teaching tools. As a final project, the teachers were required to develop curriculum units in art, history, and science that would draw on the resources of their own communities. Orse’s workshops are well received by all participants as attested by the comments from teachers. One teacher writes, ”. . . a fine overview of the concept of museum teaching—very thorough and an excellent ‘nuts and bolts,’ how-to approach; a great value to teachers.” While another found it to be ‘““without any doubt, the best workshop of any sort I have attended since I started teaching.”
In cooperation with the Department of Anthropology, orse has completed a media kit for high school students, drawing on the extensive papers and collections of the nineteenth-century naturalist, Edward W. Nelson. It is anticipated that the “Nelson Kit” will be the first in a series of curriculum units on various aspects of the Smithsonian collections in art, history, and service. A special
Public Service / 259

<<<Page: 275>>>

media project with the Children’s Hospital National Medical Center was started in 1981. Supported by Educational Outreach Funds, a number of museum-related educational packets have been developed to meet the needs of hospitalized children. When completed, these kits will be distributed to children’s hospitals and wards throughout the country.
Also for teachers nationally, Art to Zoo—a four-page publication to promote the use of museums, parks, libraries, zoos, and other community resources—reached approximately fifty-five thousand classrooms. As one teacher wrote us, “My staff and I have been very pleased with the Art to Zoo publication we have been receiving. It has given us new insights and background on many interesting topics.” In response to an Art to Zoo article on family history, one reader wrote, “As a teacher who uses family history to spark student interest in the past, I was delighted with the feature ‘playing Historical Detective’ in the January—February issue of your splendid publication. Your presentation of the subject matter and the data was particularly well handled, and the questions related to each piece of evidence concerning Annie Steel were very well designed. I was pleased to note how you encouraged readers to reject obvious conclusions in favor of more accurate conclusions based on informed analysis of the data.”
In 1981, OESE sponsored its seventh annual program for summer interns. “Intern ’81” brought twenty-five high-school seniors from rural and inner-city communities to the Smithsonian to participate in learning and service projects. The students worked under the guidance of curatorial and technical staff members in various parts of the Institution. The program often provides students with new perspectives. As one intern explained, ‘Upon telling my friends about being an intern in the Smithsonian I always received this same line—Great, you are going to be a tour guide. Most people, including myself, are not aware of the various things that this Institution does. This program helped me overcome my ignorance of the real activities that take place. Everybody I met this summer was willing to help and teach.”
Other important oEsE activities include developing a series of teacher workshops and student tours for the District of Columbia Public Schools—with support from the Cafritz, Lucas, and Meyer Foundations—and expanding the scope and understanding of the
260 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 276>>>

professional museum educator, through participation in national and regional conferences and workshops. Oese staff members also helped to plan and teach seminars on docent training, museum/ school relations, and museum interpretation. These were offered at the Smithsonian by the Office of Museum Programs.
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
In 1981, the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars (osss) continued its wide-ranging program of seminars and resource services designed to help broaden Smithsonian outreach. So that its contributions may be developed as effectively as possible, renovation was begun of the unfinished attic over the office’s south tower headquarters. This space will form a meeting room for seminars, consultations, and research, as well as an area for secure storage of archives and published materials. Costs of this work and purchase of modest furnishings will be met by gifts from private donors; William Broadhurst and Ernestine B. Howard of Tulsa, Oklahoma, made the first contribution to this fund.
Final preparations for two major Institution projects highlighted the year. The Bicentennial era continued with preparations for the observance of the two hundredth anniversary of the Battle of Yorktown in October 1981. The office coordinated this commemoration for the Secretary with other Smithsonian units and with the White House, the Yorktown Bicentennial Committee, the Society of the Cincinnati, the Daughters of the American Revolution, and other participating organizations. A temporary exhibition in the Castle and a one-day symposium were planned for October on the complementary themes ‘“By Sea and By Land: Independence with the Help of France” and “European Contributions to the American Revolution.”
The Institution’s seventh international symposium, ‘How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey,” took final shape for its November 1981 activities, examining the present situation of our species, how we got where we now find ourselves, and what our directions should be for the future. Planning proceeded, also, for a subsequent conference on human adaptation in May 1982,
Public Service / 261

<<<Page: 277>>>

For the Yorktown Bicentennial observance, a gathering (from left): Army Secretary Marsh, French Ambassador Laboulaye, Secretary Ripley, and Wilton Dillon (Osss). Below. A seminar: Education for the Office of Citizen: Whose Responsibility?
Sen ees ee

<<<Page: 278>>>

jointly sponsored by The International Organization for the Study of Human Development.
The fourth and fifth seminars in the series “High School Scholars at the Smithsonian” took place in April and May on “The Quest for Beauty” and “Inventiveness: The Social Context,” respectively. Organized since its inception in 1979 by Carla M. Borden and financed by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation and the North Carolina Association of Electric Cooperatives, Inc., as well as by Smithsonian outreach funds, these interdisciplinary seminars are considered a noteworthy adjunct to the young students’ regular classroom work and have become a model for serving youth from other parts of the United States.
An especially stimulating sequence of seminars was made possible in 1981 through the enthusiasm of a number of participants seeking the kind of informal forum offered by the Institution’s symposia and seminars program. ‘Voluntarism and the Public Interest in American Society” continued with two seminars: one on the theme ‘Education for the Office of Citizen: Whose responsibility?” organized in cooperation with the National Consortium for Public Policy Education, featuring its then president, Dr. F. David Mathews, and The Honorable Shirley Hufstedler, then Secretary of the Department of Education; and another on “Nutrition: Opportunities for Government Cooperation with the Independent Sector” organized in association with The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, featuring the Institute’s director, Dr. Norman Kretchmer, and a panel of specialists from government, industry, and philanthropy. A second colloguium in the Einstein Centennial series, ‘The Muses Flee Hitler II: Cultural Adaptation in Worldwide Perspective,” examined the experience of artists, scientists, and intellectuals who sought refuge from Nazism in diverse environments.
Individual seminars throughout the year included: an introduction to the Smithsonian for Congressional Fellows and _ their families; a discussion of human and animal language by Sir John Eccles, F.R.S., Nobel laureate (medicine and physiology); an examination by Robert W. Porter III, Ph.D. candidate in anthropology at Princeton University, of cultural networks of the Garifuna in the New World, focusing on their sense of place through community organization in Honduras and New York;
Public Service / 263

<<<Page: 279>>>

and a look at Smithsonian participation in the Cornell University Peregrine Release Project operating through the office’s south tower quarters.
Osss also was instrumental in coordinating the Smithsonian involvement in the American Town Meeting on the Arts, a four-day, national conference, using a town meeting format, which was held in Washington in September 1981. This “town meeting” opened channels of communication to a new alliance in support of the arts, composed of those who make art, those who enjoy art, and those who know how vital art is to our lives. Conducted as a onetime event at the national level, it was intended to be a spur and inspiration to imitation on a local (city and town) scale, in order to involve as many people as possible as directly as possible in the arts and their support. One sign of its success is that just such an imitation town meeting has entered the planning stage in New York City.
The Bicentennial conference, ‘The United States in the World,” sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the American Studies Association in 1976, gave birth in 1981 to a book based on its proceedings edited by Allen F. Davis, For Better or Worse: The American Influence in the World, Greenwood Press, Westport, Connecticut. Books now in preparation, based on other activities of the office, include The Joys of Research and The Muses Flee Hitler, both related to the Einstein Centennial.
Office of Telecommunications
Outreach efforts in film and radio during 1981 continued to receive wide exposure and to draw admiration from our colleagues in both the broadcast industry and the scholarly community.
A Sense of Discovery, the film profile on the National Museum of American Art, was honored with a cine Golden Eagle for excellence and with an emmy for cinematography by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, Washington Chapter. The film will represent the United States in the International Art Film Festival in Paris and the Tourfilm ’81 festival in Prague this
264 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 280>>>

fall. It is slated for fall telecast over PBs member stations and will also go into general distribution at that time. The film premiered on Washington television, Monday, December 15, 1980, over weTA (Channel 26) and it was rebroadcast in tribute to the late Dr. Joshua C. Taylor on Friday, May 1, 1981.
Mirrors on the Universe: The MMT Story, documenting the creation of the multiple mirror telescope, and Reunions: Memories of an American Experience, focusing on people who have intimate knowledge of objects on display in our museums, each won Silver awards from the Thirteenth Annual Festival of the Americas in November 1980.
Dragon of the Trees: The Green Iguana, an animal behavior film based on ten years’ research at the Smithsonian’s Tropical Research Institute in Panama, received an enthusiastic reception from scientists at the annual national meeting of the Animal Behavior Society at the University of Tennessee. It has also been requested for a screening at the International Etho'ogical Conference at Oxford, England, in October 1981.
The national organization, Women in Communications, Inc., bestowed its coveted Clarion award on “Voices of the Civil Rights Movement,” a program in the Radio Smithsonian series. And the American Association of University Women’s Metropolitan Area Mass Media Committee honored another program in the series, dealing with the coral reef exhibit at the National Museum of Natural History. The distribution of this weekly, half-hour radio series, with a potential audience of six million, was transferred to the National Public Radio satellite system in January, allowing the programs to be more timely in presenting the Institution’s activities. The programs are heard on sixty stations around the country that now pay the Smithsonian a direct subscription fee.
The Office of Telecommunications produced 104 of the 2%,minute features, Smithsonian Galaxy—our newer series that highlights the work of curators, scientists, and researchers throughout the Institution. A total of 202 stations carried these features in 45 states, Australia, Canada, the Mariana Islands, The Virgin Islands, and the Canadian Forces Network in Germany, reaching a potential weekly audience of 16 million.
Via the Appalachian Cable System Network, previously produced Smithsonian films were cablecast to a million households
Public Service / 265

<<<Page: 281>>>

in twenty-six states. The films receiving this exposure were Festival of American Folklife, Celebrating a Century, and The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary.
Through the generosity of the Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Foundation, the office began production of a new film on American Impressionist artists, possibly the first film ever done on this group of painters. The film, proposed by the Smithsonian’s Traveling Exhibition Service, will accompany their exhibition in the spring of 1982 on its tour to Paris, Sofia, Bucharest, Warsaw, and East Berlin. Through the auspices of the International Communications Agency, cosponsor of the exhibition, foreign-language versions will serve these cities. Research and development was carried out with Office of Telecomunications funds, and major location filming in New England was done in September and October. Telecast over the pss network is anticipated in 1982, with general distribution of the film to follow.
Production began on pilot video-taped features, patterned on the highly successful Galaxy radio series, for distribution to broadcast and cable television. Subjects selected to date have included the creation of the new Dinosaur Hall in the Museum of Natural History and the new Great Ape House at the National Zoo.
A special edition of Radio Smithsonian was produced for the celebration of the two hundredth anniversary of the victory at Yorktown. With segments recorded on location, ‘Yorktown: Echoes of a Victory,” will also include interviews with historians specializing in this era.
The Office of Telecommunications, at the request of the American Embassy in Bonn, coordinated filming for the production of two programs by Saarlandischer Radio and Television, focusing on the museums on the Mall. Slated for telecast over the First German Television Network as part of their series on great museums of the world, the programs air throughout the Federal Republic and will reach the German Democratic Republic, Austria, Switzerland, France, The Netherlands, and Denmark.
The office’s efforts during the past year have been directed toward extensive studies of the rapidly growing cable television industry and how the Smithsonian might best enter this new national broadcast field. In cooperation with the Under Secretary, as well as others in the Institution concerned with the media, the
266 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 282>>>

Office of Telecomunications staff researched and developed a variety of programming, production, and marketing options for consideration by the Secretary. Consultant Tom Wolf, former vice president of the asc News, joined the Institution to conduct a sixmonth investigation of television and to make recommendations in early 1982.
Smithsonian Exposition Books
To carry out the Institution’s mandate for “increase and diffusion of knowledge” to the general reading public, Smithsonian Exposition Books (ses) continued its program of popular, yet informative, publications on subjects of Smithsonian interest. These books are offered primarily to Smithsonian Associates and others through the medium of direct-mail promotion, and are available in bookstores through major trade publishers.
Sep’s first publication in fiscal year 1981 was Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun, published in January. Beginning with early man’s understanding and worship of the sun, the book explains the development of astrology and astronomy, leading to the modern sciences of astrophysics, solar technology, and to other technical applications of solar energy. Among the many scholars and scientists contributing to this book were the Smithsonian’s own George Field and Owen Gingerich, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory; Tom Crouch, National Air and Space Museum; Silvio Bedini, Smithsonian Institution Libraries; Valerie Fletcher, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; and Edward Ayensu, National Museum of Natural History; as well as Secretary Ripley, who wrote the introduction.
For the first time in sEB’s experience, arrangements were made for foreign editions of Fire of Life. An Australian/New Zealand edition was published by ANZ Pty. Ltd. In addition, translation rights were licensed to Fondo Educativo Interamericano, S.A., for a Spanish-language edition and with Editora Brasiliera, Ltda., for a Portugese-language edition. Translation rights arrangements for other foreign copublications continue to be pursued.
Under license from Crown Publishers Inc., ses offered to Smith-
Public Service / 267

<<<Page: 283>>>

sonian Associates a work entitled, Jungles, edited by Dr. Edward Ayensu, Director of the Smithsonian Office of Biological Conservation. An extensively illustrated book on the gifts that tropical rain forests provide to mankind and our need to preserve them for future generations, the book is seen as an important statement on Smithsonian’s concern for world-wide conservation.
In the summer of 1981, sep’s first titlh—and perennial bestseller—The Smithsonian Experience, was produced in a paperbound edition, intended for sale through Smithsonian Museum Shops only.
In September, sep published The Best of Smithsonian, an anthology of articles from the first decade of Smithsonian magazine. The collection includes some of the best-received and mostinfluential articles, samples from columns that characterize the magazine, highlights of Smithsonian activities during the first decade, and a double gate-fold that illustrates the covers of the first one hundred twenty editions of the magazine.
Smithsonian Institution Press
The Smithsonian Institution Press (sip), in its official capacity, serves as the publishing arm of the Smithsonian, meeting the Institution’s requirements for quality book publication for both federally funded and trust-funded activities. In its federally funded role, the sip furnishes editorial, design, and production services for research and exhibition-catalogue manuscripts prepared with federal funds by Smithsonian bureaus and offices, and—in addition—acts as the agent of the Institution with the Government Printing Office for procurement of printing services, required federal forms, and other publications. A second and growing function of the sip is to serve as a university press, publishing with trust funds both scholarly and general trade books relating to the collections or study interests of the Smithsonian. Included in this mandate is the responsibility for securing quality manuscripts, as well as editing, designing, marketing, and distributing these books domestically and internationally.
Fiscal year 1981 showed increases in virtually every area of the
268 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 284>>>

s1p’s broad-based publishing program. At the same time, the press maintained the high-quality standards required for Smithsonian publications and met the often extremely tight deadlines for exhibition openings.
During the year, the press logged in a total of 339 books, catalogues, and miscellaneous publications compared to 258 in fiscal year 1980. This includes thirty-nine monographs in the Smithsonian Contributions series, up from twenty-seven the previous year. A sampling of series publications includes: Douglas H. Ubelaker, The Ayalan Cemetery: A Late Integration Period Burial Site on the South Coast of Ecuador; Patricia G. Palmer and Alice E. Tucker, A Scanning Electron Microscope Survey of the Epidermis of East African Grasses, I; Paul D. Hurd, Jr., Wallace E. LaBerge, and E. Gorton Linsley, Principal Sunflower Bees of North America with Emphasis on the Southwestern United States (Hymenoptera: Apoidea); Thomas R. Waller, Functional Morphology and Development of Veliger Larvae of the European Oyster, Ostrea edulis Linné; Storrs L. Olson and David W. Steadman, The Relationships of the Pedionomidae (Aves: Charadriiformes); and Howard S. Wolko, In the Cause of Flight: Technologists of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
The sip’s scholarly and trade book program continued its exciting pace by publishing seventeen new titles and importing or copublishing six significant new titles in fiscal year 1981. Among them were Esin Atil’s Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks and Kalila wa Dimna: Fables from a Fourteenth Century Arabic Manuscript; Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C. for Middle Eastern Studies, by Steven R. Dorr; Diplomats in Buckskins: A History of Indian Delegations in Washington City, by Herman J. Viola; The Papers of Joseph Henry. Volume Four: The Princeton Years, January 1838-1840, edited by Nathan Reingold; and Space Science Comes of Age: Perspectives in the History of the Space Sciences, edited by Paul A. Hanle and Von Del Chamberlain. Books that were imported include Catalogue of the Prehistoric Metalwork in Merseyside County Museums, by Susan M. Nicholson, and A Naturalist’s Adventure in Nepal, by S. Dillon Ripley.
The press expanded its international sale capability when it concluded an agreement with Queensland University Press, Queensland, Australia, for them to stock and sell sie books
Public Service / 269

<<<Page: 285>>>

throughout Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, New Caledonia, Tonga, New Hebrides, and the Solomon Islands.
Of special note are the sales of two books the press has successfully sold by direct mail: The Smithsonian Collection of Newspaper Comics and The National Air and Space Museum, having sales of 57,915 copies and 74,528 copies, respectively, by end of fiscal year 1981.
The Smithsonian Institution Press staff continued to receive recognition for quality production, superb design, and excellent editing. Books recognized for excelling in one or more of these areas include: The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, The Great Gray Owl, American Portrait Drawings, Benjamin West and His American Students, and Directions. The four-volume reference work Arts in America was selected by the American Library Association as an outstanding reference book of 1980.
Smithsonian Magazine
Into its second decade the magazine still grows: 1,907,000 subscribers compared with 1,890,000 in 1980. The other measure of growth is the number of pages printed. In 1981 the magazine printed 2,172 pages, compared with 2,094 in 1980. Of this quantity, editorial pages numbered 1,124 (1980: 1,087) and advertising pages 1,047 (1980: 1,006). The reader paid the same subscription price in 1981 as in 1980 but received more; in these days of higher prices and reduced product, a noteworthy achievement.
Since the number of editorial pages bears a direct relationship to the number of advertising pages, it can be seen from these over-simplified statistics that advertising benefits the reader. In the case of Smithsonian magazine, the reader and the advertiser pay fair shares of the cost of producing the magazine.
Beyond the costs, this happy combination of reader and advertiser has produced the most prosperous year in the history of the magazine, and was also a successful year editorially. The magazine has fit into the Institution’s “diffusion of knowledge” strategy and has fulfilled the intention of the Secretary to bring the Smithsonian to a national and even international public.
270 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 286>>>

The actual readership is, of course, substantial, but it must be noted that the readership of 1,900,000 can be multiplied three-fold to include all those who read the magazine in addition to the basic subscriber. In addition to those 6,000,000 readers, there are thousands more who read the Smithsonian through reprints and references in all the media across the country. The magazine receives hundreds of requests for permissions to use text and pictures from magazine articles from classrooms, newspapers, other magazines, book publishers, the International Communications Agency, museums, and cultural organizations.
A look backward at a sampling of stories from the last twelve months suggests the range and diversity of the magazine. October: The two hundredth anniversary of Yorktown, and a Darwinian fantasy about life on earth fifty million years from now. September: Artist Edward Lear, and how computer games will become educational tools. August: Galileo reappraised by the Catholic church, and Alaska’s new corporate natives. July: Rodin’s sculpture, and how animals, as pets, help the handicapped and infirm. June: An intimate portrait of the elusive bobcat, and one hundred seven years of alfresco culture at Chautauqua. May: Scholarship and beauty at Dumbarton Oaks, and Clara Barton, founder of the Red Cross. April: Teaching captive-reared chimps how to live in the wild, and the preservation of commercial landmarks. March: North Carolina’s extraordinary school of the arts, and the remarkable cassowary. February: The solar-powered plane, and the porcelain at the Renwick. January: The Smithsonian’s coral reef project, and Tibet today. December: Avalanche research, and the beauties of Renaissance clockwork. November: The Search for Alexander the Great, and the art of Grant Wood. October: Startlingly similar lives of identical twins reared apart, and the Aldo Leopold Preserve. All this and much more. The diversity of the Smithsonian museums is reflected in the magazine and it is this variety that has made the magazine unique and appealing to millions of Americans.
During the year, there were major personnel changes. Don Moser became editor; Joseph Bonsignore, publisher. Heading up the circulation and advertising departments are Anne Keating, associate publisher, circulation, and Thomas H. Black, associate publisher, advertising.
Public Service / 271

<<<Page: 287>>>

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
Beginning its second decade, the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center (v1ARCc) continues to pursue the goals and objectives for which it was established in 1970. As the Institution’s central point of contact for a wide range of information and assistance programs, vIARC responds to the needs of the general public, Associate members, and Smithsonian staff through the involvement and coordination of large numbers of volunteers.
Reorganization of staff responsibilities in the Seven-Day Information Services Unit accommodated the refinement and expansion of the volunteer Information Specialist Program and the Group Orientation Program, respectively. Maximum seven-day coverage of thirteen information desks was maintained in the ninetieth percentile by three hundred sixty volunteers who contributed over fifty-four thousand hours to facilitate the knowledge and enjoyment of millions of visitors to the National Collections.
Continuing education sessions for Information Specialists included two special orientations: an exhibit preview of the National Museum of Natural History’s The Living Coral Reef, with a lecture by its creator, Dr. Walter Adey, and a reception at Barney Studio House, where curator Jean Lewton related the fascinating story of Alice Pike Barney.
The Telephone Information Program responded to hundreds of thousands of calls for information and direction. Rotary lines were increased to provide more efficient service, and a muchneeded weekend staff position was added to maintain supervisory continuity throughout the seven-day period.
Acting upon recommendations made in the center’s 1980 Visitor Study, viarc launched a mobile information unit to provide visitor assistance on the Mall during the summer peak visitation period. The new service, operating from various locations outside Mall museums, was not only useful and popular with the public but attracted the attention of a local TV station, which captured the activity on film for an evening news show.
The Group Orientation Program, another component of the Seven-Day Information Services Unit, completed its second year of operation. Specially trained volunteers, recruited from the Information Specialist Program, provided some thirteen thousand
272 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 288>>>

visitors with a thirty-minute slide/lecture overview of Smithsonian museums and collections, thereby enabling them to make the best use of their limited time at the Institution. In addition to public orientations, the presentation was adapted to focus on the Smithsonian’s research and educational activities for the purpose of providing regular orientations for new Smithsonian employees and interns.
The Castle Docent Program provided some two hundred tours of the historic Smithsonian Institution Building for over twentyfour hundred participants in the National Associates ““Washington Anytime Weekends,” “Smithsonian Sampler Weekends,” Selected Studies Seminars, fellow docent programs, and Information Specialist trainees.
The Public Inquiry Mail Service (Prms), viaRc’s second major program unit, is the central research, response, and referral point for the Institution’s unsolicited public mail. To respond efficiently to the volume and scope of such correspondence, this office initiates or collaborates with museum divisions to create, update, expand, and improve the appearance of fact sheets, bibliographies, and leaflets on popular topics. Production of these preprinted materials is significantly more efficient with viarc’s new word processor. Volunteers placed by ris in curatorial offices provide the necessary support for required research and editing. To assist prospective museum visitors and other program offices, prms revised its booklet, Planning Your Smithsonian Visit, first published in 1980. This year prms experienced an unexpected, unprecedented, and nearly one hundred percent increase in demand for pre-visit information largely from the National Associates. In conjunction with the Office of Computer Services, an on-line program was recently instituted to record and report a variety of mail statistics; volume currently exceeds thirty-five thousand inquiries per annum.
As an integral part of the Institution’s Council of Business Representatives, prms also compiles and circulates a list of merchandise marketed by various Smithsonian offices, participates in Council meetings and activities, and provides mail-referral cooperation and counsel.
Staff/Volunteer Services, the third major program unit of v1aRc, enjoyed increased activity in both its areas of responsibility. A record number of over six hundred volunteers was recorded on
Public Service / 273

<<<Page: 289>>>

the Independent Volunteer Placement Service (1vps) register. At the end of the fiscal year, some five hundred of these volunteers were still actively engaged in projects behind the scenes.
A comprehensive handbook for these volunteers and their staff supervisors was published and distributed in an effort to provide general assistance and direction to a group which is, by its very nature, exceedingly diffuse. For the second year, behind-the-scenes volunteer activities were climaxed by a September reception to acknowledge the individual and collective contributions of these volunteers to the Institution.
Over seventy new requests for volunteers were added to the file of staff projects and were fulfilled through referral of some one hundred eighty volunteers processed by the rvps. In addition to filling a wide range of challenging individual positions, groups of volunteers were recruited for special projects. Several talented ladies prepared Ecuadorian costumes for hanging in an exhibit at the Renwick; another group participated as extras in a special film produced to assist the handicapped, and another large contingent answered the call for volunteer Track Marshalls during the anniversary running of the John Bull locomotive. Two new programs initiated in fiscal year 1980, in the Office of Personnel Management and at the Mt. Hopkins Observatory, were augmented and strengthened through the addition of new recruits.
The annual Smithsonian-wide survey of volunteers—conducted by this unit and reported in the January issue of Torch—accounted for the activity of 2,780 volunteers in fiscal year 1980.
A special membership file, administered by the Staff/ Volunteer Services Unit accounted for the fulfillment of over four thousand National Associate memberships and gifts for employees and eligible volunteers. An on-line computer system, especially designed for processing these orders provided new capabilities and more efficient service.
274 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 290>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
THE MAJOR EFFORT THROUGHOUT fiscal year 1981 was to meet the needs of the program units for a wide range of management and technical services. These include budget, accounting, personnel, equal opportunity, procurement and contracting, grants and risk management, printing and photography, management analysis, computer, travel, and facilities services. Exclusive of costs associated with the maintenance, operation, and protection of the Institution’s many buildings and other facilities, the costs of these central services amounted to only about seven percent of the operating expenditures of the Institution. Particular areas of emphasis included an update of the Five-Year Prospectus, implementation of performance appraisal for all employees, attention to equal opportunity and affirmative action, initial development of a new computer system for payroll and personnel data, hazardous nitrate film conversion, financial controls, energy conservation, safety and security of personnel, buildings, and collections, and upgrading and developing of the physical plant.
Administrative and Support Activities
The third edition of the Institution’s Five-Year Prospectus, for the period 1982-86, was approved by the Board of Regents at its January 26, 1981, meeting and submitted to the Appropriations Committees of Congress as a companion document to the budget submission to show long-range directions and the application of

<<<Page: 291>>>

resources. Almost immediately work started on the next cycle of preparation with the intention of further strengthening the communications usefulness of the prospectus by including, at the suggestion of the Secretary, a further look ahead past the close of the five-year period. Also to be included were additional narrative and charts to show projected financial requirements in constant dollars, thus isolating the effects of inflation from possible real growth in resources. As a result of work over the year involving excellent participation by all organizations, the draft Prospectus, covering 1983-1987 with a forecast to about 1995, was submitted for Regents review at the September 14, 1981, meeting.
All provisions of the Civil Service Reform Act applicable to the Institution were met on schedule under the leadership of the Office of Personnel Administration. Of particular significance were the installation of a performance appraisal system for all employees and merit pay systems. Revision of the incentive awards program also was completed during the year as a companion program to performance appraisal and merit pay. These related systems are designed to recognize and reward high levels of achievement and contribution, particularly among supervisors and managers. Revised and consolidated guidelines for trust-fund personnel management—including performance appraisal, merit pay, and incentive awards—have been issued. After about two years of study, a contract was signed for the development and implementation of a new personnel/payroll computer software system that, when operational in early 1983, will provide a consolidated data base for a wide variety of personnel-related information as well as budget and financial data.
While the Institution’s equal opportunity and affirmative action programs were affected by continuing hiring controls imposed by the administration, progress was made in these areas. The Office of Equal Opportunity, with assistance from the personnel office, continued to push its internal programs, including assistance to bureaus and offices in setting goals to improve under-representation, and special efforts to make the Smithsonian more accessible to disabled persons. During fiscal year 1981, fourteen cooperative education students participated in work-study periods in Smithsonian activities. A new and expanded Upward Mobility Program for employees was placed into effect. An extensive array of public
276 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 292>>>

and staff events was conducted in recognition of the International Year of Disabled Persons. In order to increase external awareness of the Institution, the exhibit Blacks in Science was shown at the sixth annual conference of presidents of the historically black colleges. We also exhibited and provided information about employment opportunities and programs at four other national conferences of minorities and women.
During the year, special emphasis was given by the Office of Facilities Services to the overseeing and management of protection, health, safety, architectural, and plant services. This office also played a key role in the construction progress of the Museum Support Center and in the development of the Quadrangle project behind the Smithsonian Castle.
Significant progress continues to be made in the area of energy conservation, one of a number of important activities for which the Office of Plant Services is responsible. Energy committees, established in each museum as part of the Institution’s formalized energy program, have helped significantly in keeping consumption down this past year. This and other aggressive energy measures undertaken by Plant Services since 1978 have resulted in lessening utility costs by some $2 million dollars. To maintain employee interest and participation in the energy program, an energy-awareness day was held in June 1981 and included demonstrations of electric vehicles, displays of energy-efficient exhibit lighting systems, films, and a ceremony that recognized employees who made significant contributions in the Institution’s energy conservation program.
The Office of Protection Services has steadily improved safety and security programs at the Smithsonian. Significant achievements this year included publication of additional chapters to the Safety Handbook and development of a new Security Handbook. Specific achievements in the security field included completion of work on the design and specifications for a proprietary alarm system and the awarding of a contract for the first phase of the Museum Support Center security system. The office also completed a study of personnel security needs at the Smithsonian. Occupational safety and health accomplishments included continued progress in removing or containing asbestos and initiation of an Institutionwide program to destroy dangerous cellulose nitrate film or remove
Administration / 277

<<<Page: 293>>>

it to safe storage. Two audits of the health services program have been completed and, in addition to providing first aid for visitors and employees, the office is now ready to place new emphasis on providing occupational health care for Smithsonian staff.
Work in the Office of Design and Construction during the past year centered on major efforts associated with Museum Support Center construction and Quadrangle developments, as well as on a number of other important repair, renovation, and improvement projects. Construction of the Museum Support Center, by the George Hyman Construction Company, began in February 1981 and is progressing ahead of schedule, with completion expected by January 1983. Other work included efforts to improve access for handicapped visitors; significant among these was the completion of access ramps and other improvements to the Hirshhorn Sculpture Garden. Several other important accomplishments included the completion of the Thomas M. Evans Gallery in the Museum of Natural History, designed to accommodate important traveling loan exhibitions and major Smithsonian-organized exhibitions; the Ice Cream Parlor in the National Museum of American History (NMAH); and support facilities improvements at both the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s Mt. Hopkins facility in Arizona and the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies in Edgewater, Maryland.
Elsewhere in administrative support, the Office of Printing and Photographic Services placed increased emphasis on the archival processing and preservation of film, and support to the museum inventory program. As part of a museum-wide effort to locate deteriorating nitrate-based film and convert it to safety film, the office converted approximately twenty thousand negatives during the year. In addition, construction was begun on a cold-storage room for the long-term storage of film. This facility will extend the archival life of color film by ten times and will also insure the almost indefinite life of black-and-white materials. Support to the inventory program concentrated on the NMAH silver inventory. In addition to extensive original photography, special equipment was installed to produce file prints to provide a visual record of each piece inventoried. Also, during the year, the office increased its support to the Smithsonian News Service through the production of prescreened photographs complete with captions. These photo-
278 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 294>>>

graphs have enjoyed wide use in newspapers throughout the nation.
Wide-ranging assistance was given by the Office of Computer Services including: support for museum inventories; the development of a communications link for laboratory automation in the National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man; progress on a new membership system for the Resident Associate Program; establishment of a registration system for the National Associate Travel Program, and participation in the new security system. The Office of Supply Services completed the installation of word-processing equipment to handle all purchasing and contract transactions and successfully established and monitored a plan required of all agencies by the President’s Office of Management and Budget to limit the procurement of certain types of equipment. The Management Analysis Office inaugurated a major effort to update the Institution’s official directives issuances and the system by which they are codified and indexed for ready reference. Travel assistance was provided by the Travel Services Office with a particular effort to save funds by the use of contract and discount fares.
Financial Management Activities
During the past year emphasis on guidance and service to the bureaus has resulted in more efficient and more accurate financial accounting and reporting. Three additional chapters of a financial management handbook for auxiliary activities have been published, and new handbooks on banking and investment procedures are nearing completion. Improved communication with the bureaus has been accomplished through seminars and training sessions as well as by the establishment of additional accounting service units. These units, located in various museum buildings and equipped with computer terminals, have been increased to five, significantly expanding the range and timeliness of services available to operating officials.
Risk management activities, focused upon traveling exhibition risks, including a significant increase in lending and borrowing
Administration / 279

<<<Page: 295>>>

with foreign countries; establishing adequate Smithsonian facilities for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service exhibitions; and risk of loss in the revenue-producing activities, particularly in the products liability area. Development of a computerized management information system for losses was initiated to measure accurately the cost of loss for each fiscal year.
Again this year, sales through the museum shops and the mail order catalogues have reflected resilience to generally unfavorable economic conditions and recorded a growth rate of ten percent. A portion of this growth is attributable to placement of the National Museum of African Art museum shop, formerly bureau operated, under central Smithsonian Museum Shops management.
Museum shops displays continued to win awards for innovation and effectiveness in international competition. Both the displays and the catalogues emphasized how the products selected for sale relate to the Institution’s collections and activities. This relatedness was emphasized further by the use of small sales desks featuring uniquely appropriate items in conjunction with temporary exhibits, as well as a craft sales tent at the Festival of American Folklife.
A Food Service Department has been established under the Business Management Office to manage restaurant facilities in the National Air and Space Museum formerly operated under a concession arrangement. Other Smithsonian food facilities, including the newest addition, an ice cream parlor at the National Museum of American History, continue to operate on a concession basis.
The State of Maryland has offered to purchase a large parcel of the land now attached to the Belmont Conference Center. A suitable buyer is being sought for the buildings and remaining acreage.
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities
The Women’s Council is a group of twenty women chosen by Smithsonian employees in an election held every two years. The five-member board meets monthly with council members and interested staff persons to discuss programs and issues that concern women working at the Institution.
280 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 296>>>

Recent council projects include the publication of a bimonthly newsletter, The 4-Star; sponsorship of several training sessions for the secretarial staff at the Institution; revision of the Women’s Council constitution; and the preparation of an in-depth study on the feasibility of locating a child care center for employees’ children.
The first training session held in November 1980 was a career day workshop for Smithsonian women. The next training program, designed especially for secretarial and clerical staff at the Institution, was a one-day workshop held in Spring 1981. It resulted in an extended program for interested secretaries who continue to meet to promote and professionalize the clerical-secretarial positions within the Smithsonian.
The newsletter has become a vehicle for news and issues of special interest to women at the Smithsonian. Subjects have included safety in the workplace, the sick leave policy, what it means to be classified as a member of a specific race or ethnic group, sexual harassment, affirmative action and numerous announcements concerning women’s support groups, special training sessions, and Women’s Council activities.
Informal meetings among women, organized by Council members, resulted in some enlightening exchanges concerning racial and ethnic biases, stereotypes, and how these affect workers. These meetings are developing into an active network in which employees from all bureaus participate.
Administration / 281

<<<Page: 297>>>

Ox > |7\ Ay | f {
The process of gem identification is demonstrated by gemologist Peter Dunn to Smithsonian National Associate Contributing Members in NMNH’s Hall of Minerals.

<<<Page: 298>>>

Smithsonian Year « 1981
Office of Development
The office has continued to focus much of its attention on the Quadrangle development as plans for this construction project have evolved during the year. The complex, when completed in 1986, will include the National Museum of African Art, a Center for Eastern Art, an education center, offices for the Associate programs and the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, and an International Gallery and Conference Center. With costs now projected as $75 million, the amount of nonappropriated funding required has increased greatly. The Institution is particularly grateful for the gift of $1 million presented by President Chun Doo Hwan, during his state visit in February 1981, on behalf of the Korean Traders Association and the people of Korea. A group of leading Japanese citizens has formed a committee, the Friends of the Smithsonian Institution in Japan, to raise money for the Quadrangle among corporations in that country.
The continuing need of the various Smithsonian bureaux for private funding to support exhibitions, research, education, and other programs has also occupied the attention of the office. To respond to these increasing requirements, the staff was enlarged by two persons. Of significant note was the gift of the T. M. Evans Foundation, which made possible the new special exhibitions gallery in the National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man.

<<<Page: 299>>>

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
J. M. Kemper, Jr., of Kansas City was elected chairman, to serve a two-year term. During his previous service on the board, Mr. Kemper has demonstrated considerable interest in the activities of the Smithsonian and its attempts to make its resources more accessible to the people of the nation.
New members elected in 1981 include William W. Bodine— elected to complete the term of G. Morris Dorrance, who resigned—Perry R. Bass, Lucius D. Battle, Mrs. Justin Dart, W. L. Hadley Griffin, Judge Sandra D. O’Connor, and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer.
Board meetings were held in Washington in the autumn of 1980 and in Kansas City in the spring of 1981.
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
The considerable efforts of the Women’s Committee, to provide an improved experience at the Smithsonian for the handicapped, neared completion as construction proceeded on the East Garden, between the Hirshhorn Museum and the Arts and Industries Building. The committee also awarded grants which made possible the following activities: a Free Film Theater for the Resident Associate Program; the Hirshhorn Museum’s Annual Holiday; a kiosk near the Constitution Avenue entrance to the National Museum of Natural History; the conversion of a slide-tape package, Museum Idea, into a filmstrip kit for the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education; a variety of docent activities at the National Museum of American History and docent education and training for the Museum’s Docent Council; a poster exhibition based on Black Women: Achievement Against the Odds for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service; a Spanish version of a Smithsonian Public Service announcement for television for the Office of Public Affairs; the National Museum of American History’s program ‘The Time Machine”; the restoration and conservation of a trade literature collection pertaining to the clothing and allied industries for the Smithsonian Institution Libraries; a brochure describing events taking place during the International Year of Disabled Persons for the
284 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 300>>>

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education; a film to accompany and amplify the National Museum of American Art’s exhibition Sheila Isham, Painting Poem; and the National Portrait Gallery’s weekend special events series Portraits in motion.
Smithsonian National Associate Program
In Secretary Ripley’s words, an Associate is one who has “joined a special community . . . : 6) This national dynamism was observed again and again in 1981 as Associate members participated in activities planned for them and as the Institution continued to expand its commitment to public education and scholarship through membership programs.
Since 1970 and the appearance of Smithsonian magazine, programs that allow active participation in the life of the Smithsonian without regard to geographical location have been developed. These National Associate programs are dedicated to the proposition that learning should be an enjoyable lifelong pursuit for everyone, and that the national museums and research organizations of the Smithsonian Institution can make a valuable contribution to this ‘earning process. The programs include: Contributing Membership, Regional Events, Selected Studies, and Travel.
The Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian National Associate Program (snap) provided more than $1.2 million in unrestricted funds for the Smithsonian’s work in research and education this year. The membership, which expanded from 10,600 in 1980 to the current 15,800, offers five levels of support: the $50 supporting level for members living outside of a seventy-five mile radius of Washington, D.C., the $100 donor level, the $250 sponsoring level, the $500 sustaining level, and the James Smithson Society.
During fiscal year 1981, members were asked to increase their level of support as they renewed their memberships. Approximately twenty percent of the $50 Supporting members responded by increasing their memberships to the $100 Donor level, raising the
Membership and Development / 285

<<<Page: 301>>>

number of Donor members from twelve hundred to more than thirty-five hundred.
An annual giving program was introduced in which members were asked to make a donation in addition to their Contributing Membership dues. One thousand sixty members responded with contributions that totaled $49,200. In addition, seventy-six members arranged to increase their support by having their contributions matched by the companies where they work. The total matching amount from forty-five companies was $12,354.
The Contributing Membership Program sponsored thirteen special events during the year including: a private viewing of the Search for Alexander exhibition, followed by a reception given by Ambassador and Mrs. Tzounis at the Greek Embassy; a concert by the Smithsonian Chamber Players of selections from their inaugural album, “Handel Concerti Grossi, Opus 3,” in the Hall of Musical Instruments; and a formal reception for the opening of 5,000 Years of Korean Art in the National Museum of Natural History. The annual membership ball, the white tie “Renwick Waltz’; was held in the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery, with the Ambassador of Great Britain and Lady Henderson acting as honorary sponsors. Contributing Members living outside the Washington area received advance information to offerings of the Regional Events Program in eleven major cities throughout the United States.
The James Smithson Society of the Contributing Membership Program was fundamentally restructured during the year. In the future, only the Founder Medal will be awarded in the life membership category. Annual membership, which remains unaffected by this change, reached a total of one hundred sixty-eight persons in 1981. The unrestricted contributions of the annual members, some $170 thousand, made possible the acquisition of a collection of Thomas Jefferson memorabilia for the National Museum of American History and the three-volume Works in Architecture, by Robert and James Adam, for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Financial assistance was given to a number of Smithsonian activities, including the following: an exhibition commemorating the bicentennial of the Battle of Yorktown; the publication of the catalogue to accompany the planned exhibition Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual; the completion of a video documentary, by the Archives of American Art, of five contemporary Michigan artists; and the fund-
286 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 302>>>

ing of an illustrated children’s version of the Ramayana for the Freer Gallery of Art. The sum of $40 thousand was pledged toward the Quadrangle project.
Six new life members were accepted into the Smithson Society this year and were awarded the Founder Medal in recognition of extraordinary contributions of objects and monetary gifts to the Institution. It is a pleasure to acknowledge these individuals: David K. Anderson, Ms. Charlotte V. Bergen, Thomas M. Evans, John H. Phipps, Raphael Soyer, and Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner. The Smithsonian Institution also acknowledges with gratitude the generous support of the annual members of the James Smithson Society and the Contributing Membership Program. Contributing members at the sponsoring level and above are listed in Appendix 9.
For the first season in its six-year history, the Regional Events Program of the snap has invited more than a quarter of a million Associates and members of cosponsoring organizations to attend a wide range of science, history, and art programs in home communities. One hundred eighty Smithsonian originated events, covering sixtyfive topic areas, were offered this year in cosponsorship with eightyfive cultural and scientific organizations in Tampa, St. Petersburg, Little Rock, Kansas City, Denver, Providence, New London, Rochester, Austin, and Louisville.
Associates, local members, and their families learned scientific illustration at the Denver Zoo, listened to American folk music in Tampa, explored central Arkansas’ ancient Indian mounds, and discovered the mysteries of the giant squid in New London in special parent-child events this year. In addition to family programs, twenty-five new lectures, seminars, and workshops were offered. Representing the Museum of American Art, special consultant Adelyn Breeskin lectured on “Shared Visions: The Art of Cassatt and Degas.” Lloyd Herman of the Renwick Gallery traced the origins of the American crafts movement in an illustrated lecture, and Warren Robbins of the Museum of African Art presented “The Influence of African Art on Picasso.” In the sciences, Porter Kier, from the National Museum of Natural History (NMNH), spoke on “The Secret Life of Sea Urchins”; Frederic Chaffee, Mt. Hopkins Observatory, explored recent breakthroughs in quasar research; and
Membership and Development / 287

<<<Page: 303>>>

William Fitzhugh, nmnu, described his fieldwork in “Archeology in Labrador: The Arctic Gateway.” Seminars introduced this year included “Volcanology Today,” by Richard Fiske, nmnu, and “Scientific Illustration,” by George Venable, nmnu. More than one thousand members participated in these and other in-depth sessions on American folk instruments, nature photography, gem appreciation, gardening, and fossil identification.
Beginning in 1981, Smithsonian fellows joined staff representatives in traveling to host cities. Jerald Milanich (Florida State Museum) presented lectures on southeastern Indian archeology in Tampa and Little Rock, and Don Fowler (University of Nevada at Reno) spoke on “The Artist as Ethnographer” in Denver. Paula Rabkin (Yale University) described contemporary Indian powwow rituals during the New London event series, and John Hanley (uscs) led fossil identification workshops for parents and children in Denver.
Cosponsors enhanced the Smithsonian events with activities that highlighted local areas of interest. Dr. Milanich’s lecture in Little Rock was followed by tours of Toltec Mounds State Park. In Providence, local experts led tours of private gardens in the historic College Hill area following seminars on contemporary garden design. Field trips to the Falls of the Ohio, an area of rich fossil beds and distinctive geological formations, were planned in Louisville to complement Smithsonian lectures on fossil sea animals and plate tectonics.
In collaboration with other Smithsonian bureaux, the Regional Events Program expanded services to members and the public. The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education assisted the program in offering oral and sign language interpretation for all events. The Associates Travel Program offered tours to membership groups from cosponsoring organizations. Forty members from the Denver Museum of Natural History visited the Smithsonian in May for a specially designed tour emphasizing the sciences, and the Grand Rapids Arts Museum organized a members’ tour to the Smithsonian for a program focusing on the arts. Smithsonian magazine, in cooperation with the Contributing Membership Program and the Rochester Museum and Science Center sponsored a reception celebrating the opening of Selections from the National Gem Collection in
Rochester.
288 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 304>>>

In recognition of their vital contribution to lifelong educational pursuits, colleges and universities in host cities were invited to play a major role in the series. The University of Missouri at Kansas City and the University of Texas at Austin served as primary locations for events in those cities. Lectures and seminars were also held at St. Petersburg Junior College, Penn Valley Junior College (Kansas City), and the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences in Little Rock. State, municipal, and private non-profit arts organizations were also involved in this year’s events. The Department of Arkansas’ Natural and Cultural Heritage and the Pinellas Arts Council (St. Petersburg), coordinated cosponsor participation and publicity for events held in those cities.
The media in each locale highlighted Smithsonian events with an unprecedented number of major news features, including Sunday magazine color articles on Selections from the National Gem Collection, and Kjell Sandved’s (NMNuH) exhibition of nature photography, Beyond the Ocean, Beneath a Leaf. Full-page articles on the series appeared in Little Rock, Tampa, St. Petersburg, New London, and Louisville. While on tour, Smithsonian lecturers were featured on twenty television interviews and fifteen radio broadcasts.
Selected Studies, an intensive educational program of the snap, offered sixteen week-long seminars in fiscal year 1981. Continuing to draw upon the best collections and expert staff of the Smithsonian, as well as visiting scholars and other scientific and cultural authorities in the Washington area, the programs combined illustrated lectures, films, special behind-the-scenes tours, and field trips to offer National Associates comprehensive courses in a wide variety of topics in the arts, humanities, and sciences.
Due to strong demand generated by previous offerings and the necessity of limiting enrollment to assure a personal seminar atmosphere, many of the popular subjects such as “Genealogical Research: How To Do It,” “Connoisseurship of American Antique Furniture, 1650-1840,” “World War II Aviation: A Closer Look,” and “Aircraft Restoration: How To” were repeated.
At the same time, the number of repeat participants grew. To meet the demand from people who wished to attend their third, fourth, and even fifth seminar, sequels such as ‘Princes and Patri-
Membership and Development / 289

<<<Page: 305>>>

ots: Dutch and Flemish Painting in the 17th Century” were planned to build on the interest resulting from the initial program “French Impressionist Painting.”
New subjects involved the interest and support of major institutions in the Washington area, including ‘The Splendor of Byzantium” seminar taught by the curators of Dumbarton Oaks and “The Navy: From the Age of Sail to Nuclear Power” seminar with renowned experts from Annapolis.
From its inception in 1978, the Selected Studies audience has been extremely enthusiastic. The program continues to attract knowledgeable and personable experts to lead the seminars so that the high level of learning and enjoyment is maintained.
Undaunted by uncertain air fares, members enrolled from as far away as Hawaii and Canada. Participants’ backgrounds ranged from interested novices to life-long buffs to travelers preparing for business trips abroad. In addition, a large number of professionals participated in seminars on antique furniture, aeronautics and preservation. Several members received college credit for attending a seminar.
Another highlight of 1981 was the increasing national attention given to Selected Studies in the growing number of national and specialized publications, which printed regular notices of programs. These included journals such as Antiques, Flying, Asia, and Preservation News in addition to Smithsonian magazine.
The Travel Program of the snap presents educational study tours that mirror the interests and concerns of the Institution. The study tours are designed for members who are particularly interested in the work of the national museum and subjects in Smithsonian. Since 1975, more than thirty-five thousand members have participated in the Study Tour Program.
Enrollment in Domestic Study Tours was strong this year. Most tours had substantial waiting lists. Associates took part in cultural programs in San Francisco, Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia. Fine arts and aviation history were topics featured in special weekends on the Mall, and a “Sampler Weekend” for families gave youngsters and their parents active interaction with the collection, guided by curators and other museum staff. Natural history is
290 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 306>>>

: ; me & RS ae ae 4 oe AS &
Smithsonian Associates learn about Adelie penguins on Torgeson Island, Antarctica.
consistently a subject of great interest to Associates. Generous assistance from the National Museum of Natural History resulted in excellent programs in Hawaii, Alaska, and the Southwest.
There were many new destinations for participants in the Foreign Study Tours. The residential seminar program has expanded to include study in Salzburg in addition to Oxford University, Kyoto, and Scotland. Study voyages allowed Associates to visit the Antarctic continent, Sicily and southern Italy, and the lands bordering the Adriatic Sea. Hardy members walked New Zealand’s Milford Track or trails in the Austrian Alps. A special tour of French and English air museums was planned and accompanied by curators of the National Air and Space Museum. The South Pacific series continued with a study tour of Micronesia, while the United Kingdom series was enlarged to include Ireland and Wales.
The educational content of both the foreign and domestic study tours is intensified by the study leader. Each trip is led by one or more Smithsonian or guest scholars as well as Smithsonian staff representatives.
Membership and Development / 291

<<<Page: 307>>>

The Washington “Anytime” Program—designed to give National Associates an opportunity to visit Washington and the Smithsonian any weekend during the year—is executed in cooperation with the Visitors Information and Associates Reception Center. The program was able to respond to a substantial increase in members who came to learn about their nation’s capital and national museum.
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program—the private, selfsupporting membership and continuing-education arm of the Smithsonian Institution for metropolitan Washington, D.C.—is considered a model for museum membership and education programs both nationally and internationally. Established in 1965 by Secretary Ripley, to provide opportunities for those who live in the Washington area to participate actively in the life of the Smithsonian, the program offers a broad range of educational activities that complement and enhance the exhibitions, collections, and research of the Institution.
Resident Associates are drawn from a broad cross-section of the greater Washington community. Membership has grown from 8 thousand with a retention rate of 50 percent in 1972, to more than 70 thousand and a retention rate in excess of 80 percent in 1981, representing more than 135 thousand persons in the Washington metropolitan area. During fiscal year 1981, the program offered 917 activities, attended by over 165 thousand individuals.
Self-supporting since 1972, the program reimburses the Institution for office space, computer and audio-visual support, and administrative overhead (over $548 thousand in fiscal year 1981). In addition, the program generates an annual surplus that is transferred to the unrestricted funds of the Institution.
The Resident Associate Program seems to fulfill the continuingeducation interests and needs of a large segment of the educated greater Washington community. Never taking its success for granted, the program continually seeks to provide its constituency with innovative, timely, and high quality educational offerings, and
292 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 308>>>

to retain the affiliation of its members, while increasing its constituency modestly each year.
The program’s primary focus continues to be on programming, which enhances popular appreciation of Smithsonian exhibitions, curatorial research, and special activities. The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s exhibition, The Avant-Garde in Russia, 1910-30: New Perspectives, served as the centerpiece for some of the most exciting and innovative programming of the year. A Russian avant-garde fashion show, featuring women’s fashions designed by artists of the period; the production of the 1913 CuboFuturist opera, Victory Over the Sun; a series of Soviet silent films from the 1920s; a concert/lecture demonstrating the close relationship between the works of Russian composer Scriabin, artist Kandinsky, and writer Belyi; an all-day symposium on Russian avant-garde art; and a study tour were offered to complement the show. The exhibition, 5,000 Years of Korean Art, at the National Museum of Natural History was the source of another comprehensive programming initiative. The Resident Associate Program organized a special evening that included a film tracing the evolution of Korean art and history, a lecture by renowned Asian art scholar Jan Fontein, director of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and a gala reception. Two other lectures by noted art historians, workshops dealing with Korean arts, studio arts, study tours, and young people’s activities were also offered to augment the show.
During the year, two free member openings were held—one to celebrate the installation of The Coral Reef exhibition at the National Museum of Natural History—and the other, billed as a “Gala Evening of Americana,” organized around the Champions of American Sport show at the National Portrait Gallery and the George Catlin: The Artist and the American Indian exhibition at the National Museum of American Art. James H. Billington, Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, gave a lecture for the Resident Associate Program based on his recently published book, Fire in the Minds of Men: Origins of the Revolutionary Faith. A symposium exploring “The United States and Europe in the 1980s” was presented in cooperation with The
Membership and Development / 293

<<<Page: 309>>>

Wilson Center. A lecture on “The Genius of Rodin” was offered to complement the major exhibition, Rodin Rediscovered at the National Gallery of Art, and a program—in conjunction with the National Museum of American History’s exhibition—saluting “Baseball’s Black Leagues,” and featuring members of Baseball’s Hall of Fame, was planned.
To commemorate the Larry Rivers show at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the program commissioned the artist to create a poster in his witty tongue-in-cheek style, alluding to the works in the show. The poster, an artistic and financial success, generated income for the program’s Scholarship Fund. Posters signed by Rivers were given to the National Museum of American Art and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
The Gene Davis poster, commissioned at the end of fiscal year 1980, won a vest Award from Graphic Design: USA “for excellence in the creation of a graphic design and its execution for the following medium,” and received a Certificate of Merit from The Art Directors Club of Metropolitan Washington. The original work was donated to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Serigraphs of the work were donated to the National Museum of American Art, the National Air and Space Museum, and the National Gallery of Art. The latter museum included the serigraph in its exhibition, Contemporary American Prints and Drawings.
The Resident Associate Program plays an active role in the cultural life of the Washington metropolitan area. The program regularly initiates or cosponsors with local organizations activities that address important current issues and are open to the public as well as members. The program also supports local cultural festivals and civic projects and is recognized by the community for its contributions.
For the eighth straight year, the Resident Associate Program presented the Audubon Lecture Series with the Audubon Naturalist Society and the Friends of the National Zoo. The appearance of internationally renowned ornithologist Roger Tory Peterson was a series highlight. In cooperation with the National Trust for Historic Preservation and Partners for Livable Places, and in conjunction
294 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 310>>>

Resident Associate events: In performance, Cubo-Futurist opera Victory Over the Sun and (below) In dialogue, Steve Weil, Hirshhorn deputy director, and artist Larry Rivers.

<<<Page: 311>>>

with Historic Preservation Week, 1981, the program organized an all-day symposium, ‘Conservation: Keeping America’s Neighborhoods Together,” an examination of recent developments in community regeneration.
In observance of Black History Month, the program arranged a special performance by the gifted actor/actress team, Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee. Saluting the Caribbean/American Intercultural Organization’s annual Caribbean Independence Week, the program offered its fifth consecutive Caribbean Gala, featuring calypso and reggae music and dramatizations of works by Caribbean poets. An Evening of Shakespeare, performed by two stars of the Turkish Theatre, was staged in cooperation with the Folger Shakespeare Library and the Office of the Ambassador for Turkish Affairs. Collaborating with the Design Arts Program of the National Endowment for the Arts, the Resident Associate Program organized a series of lectures and panel discussions that explored fundamental issues in the Washington, D.C., urban design with a distinguished group of the city’s architects, developers, city planners, and preservationists.
As has been the practice of the program for the past nine years, tuition-free scholarships were awarded to innercity young people and adults to attend courses of their choice. Through the D.C. Public School System, 114 youngsters received tuition-free scholarships to attend Young Associate classes in fiscal year 1981, and 123 scholarships were awarded to adults and high school students to attend the program’s adult courses. In addition, the program awarded 104 scholarships for adult courses to Smithsonian docents.
The program has been working with the Cultural Alliance of Greater Washington, especially in support of ticketplace, Washington’s own facility for the sale of half-price, day-of-performance tickets, opened in November 1981 in the F Street Plaza.
In honor of the “Egypt Today” symposium, Mayor Marion Barry declared the week of March 16-23 “Egypt Today Week” in Washington, and the director of the Resident Associate Program organized an exhibition from Washington collections of modern Egyptian art at the District Building. The program’s director received a certificate of appreciation from Mayor Barry, presented “in recognition of significant and valuable service to the District of Columbia in connection with the Egypt Today symposium.”
296 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 312>>>

The program is a forum for important national concerns. Eminent experts are invited to discuss current issues in such fields as historic preservation, city planning, often controversial scientific matters, and architecture. For its “excellent lecture program which draws the nation’s finest architects, critics, and architectural thinkers to address a variety of topics before an informed nonprofessional audience,” the program won one of eight 1981 ara medals from the American Institute of Architects. The program occupies a wellrecognized position in the continuing-education field, among universities as well as in the museum world. Resident Associate staff members, who present annual workshops for professional museum personnel from across the country, are active in the National University Continuing Education Association, as well as the American Association of Museums. The director consults regularly in education, programming, and membership for museums, art centers, and institutions of higher learning throughout the country and abroad.
In fiscal year 1981, for the fourth consecutive year, the Resident Associate Program was named one of the three national sponsors of an international symposium sponsored by the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the Arts. “Egypt Today,” celebrating the contemporary culture of Egypt, was made possible by grants from the two endowments, as well as funding from the U.S. International Communication Agency and private sources. With the cooperation of the Government of Egypt and its embassy in Washington, Mrs. Anwar Sadat opened the symposium in Washington in March 1981. The program organized courses, lectures, a film series, and a poetry reading in Washington, and the director of the program selected the modern art shown in Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, and Houston, and wrote the introduction to the art catalogue. The Resident Associate Program’s director has been named national vice-chairperson for culture and publications for the Netherlands-American bicentennial commemoration, scheduled for spring 1982 and funded by the Netherlands-America Amity Trust. Work has begun on this project, which will mark—through an extensive program of cultural exchange involving Smithsonian museums and other key sites in Washington, D.C., and across the country—two
Membership and Development / 297

<<<Page: 313>>>

hundred years of unbroken friendship and commerce between the United States and The Netherlands.
The impact of inflation on the day-to-day operating expenses of the program necessitated an increase in membership fees, as of August 1, 1981, from $21 to $24 for a single membership, and from $26 to $30 for a double membership. The family membership fee of $36 remained unchanged. During the past fiscal year, progress was made in streamlining accounting procedures through innovations such as the direct transfer of Smithsonian magazine subscription fees to the magazine.
Automation has played an increasingly significant role in the organizational functioning of the Resident Associate Program during the past year. The monthly production of the newsletter Smithsonian Associate, was automated through the use of wordprocessing equipment interfaced with a photo typesetting system. While time has not yet been reduced by the new system, typesetting costs have been cut by a third. The registration computer has been upgraded to provide more sophisticated information about member usage of the benefits offered by the program.
The Special Events arm of the program enables members to enjoy a wide variety of one-time cultural experiences through diverse formats, including lectures, films, performing arts, seminars, and symposia. During fiscal year 1981, one hundred seventy special events, exploring current topics in the arts, humanities, and sciences, were attended by sixty-five thousand people, a six percent increase over the previous year.
Films
Imax films of the volcanic eruptions at Mt. St. Helens, Discovering the Art of Korea, tracing the evolution of Korean art and history, and a special screening of Picasso: A Painter's Diary were among the year’s highlights. Series exploring the art of animation, cities of contemporary China, current Egyptian cinema, presented in conjunction with the “Egypt Today’’ symposium, and the best of
298 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 314>>>

Clark Gable were also shown. A scholar in the field introduced each film or series; 14,283 persons attended Resident Associate films this year. The Free Film Theater, a weekly series of documentaries open to the public, screened 40 films.
Seminars and Symposia
Intensive day-long seminars and symposia, exploring such topics as the art of the Medici in Florence and Rome, the history of London (two days), the natural history of the Galapagos, and early Irish art constituted a major component of the program. On-site weekend seminars at the Smithsonian’s Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia, involved participants in subjects such as the sociobiology of birds and animal research. A total of 3,971 members participated in the increasingly popular all-day seminars.
Lectures
Among the year’s notable speakers were: author James Michener; artist and author Francoise Gilot, an intimate companion of both Picasso and Matisse; scientist Richard Berendzen, president of The American University; photographers Alfred Eisenstaedt and Bruce Davidson; and modern master painter Larry Rivers. The revolution in men’s fashions was considered by four leading women designers of menswear, and lectures on subjects as diverse as genetic engineering, the renaissance of Islam, Chinese gardens, and interior design for the 1980s were given by distinguished experts. As many as 38,049 persons attended the individual lectures.
Performing Arts
Winter brunch concerts are planned annually; this past year, for the second consecutive year, pianist John Eaton’s American popular song series was scheduled twice to meet demand. Summer outdoor concerts in the courtyard of the National Museum of American Art/National Portrait Gallery, featuring outstanding local jazz, brass, and bluegrass groups, continued to attract capacity audiences. Multi-media laserium programs at the National Air and Space Museum Spacearium, a workshop on “Dance for NonDancers,” with renowned dancer Sage Cowles, and a poetry
Membership and Development / 299

<<<Page: 315>>>

reading by Egyptian poet Salah Abdel Sabbour were among the year’s outstanding performances. A total of 10,158 persons registered for the program’s limited number of performing-arts events.
Offering a broad-based curriculum in the arts, sciences, and humanities, the Adult Courses segment of the program provides opportunities for serious study with distinguished Smithsonian and visiting experts. Enrollment—which totaled 74 hundred for the year in 141 courses—was down slightly from the previous year, possibly reflecting the impact of inflation on members’ attendance at a series of programs. Registration for fall courses, however, was the highest ever for a single term. The program of noontime courses, established the previous year, continued to grow, with a total of 39 courses. Plans have been made to expand classroom locales beyond the Mall next year to accommodate the growing demand for daytime classes. The best-attended courses, attracting 13 hundred persons, covered topics that included the architecture of the American house, photojournalism, Stonehenge and the cosmos, and the New Wave of graphic design. Photographer David Hume Kennerly, historian William E. Leuchtenburg, and architects Moshe Safdie and Bruce Goff were among the year’s outstanding speakers.
The Studio Arts sector of the Resident Associate Program seeks to engender an appreciation of age-old crafts by keeping alive hands-on techniques that are rapidly disappearing from our modern world. Studio arts classes were offered four terms per year; in addition, a special September mini-term and intensive master workshops provided opportunities to experiment with various studio arts techniques. Subjects explored in these 160 programs, attended by 2,391 individuals in fiscal year 1981, included drawing, calligraphy, furniture restoration, layout design, and bookbinding. Among the most popular workshops, conducted by masters in their fields, were those by enamel-on-glass artist, Maurice Heaton, porcelain artist, Rudolph Staffel, and Jeffrey Stephanic, a specialist in the hand-colored photographic print.
300 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 316>>>

On-site learning experiences are offered in art, architecture, archeology, history, and science at the Smithsonian and complementary cultural facilities. Ranging in length from one hour to several days, tours are geared to appeal to all age groups and interests. From free tours of Smithsonian museum exhibitions and walking tours of historic Washington neighborhoods, to an evening with the Baltimore Orioles and their famous, former third-baseman, Brooks Robinson, and a weekend at the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, N.Y., 293 tours, with 689 different sections, took place during fiscal year 1981; 33,722 persons participated in these tours, an increase of 15 hundred individuals over the previous year. The “water” tours—visiting the Chesapeake Bay and Baltimore Harbor—were among the year’s most popular, as were tours to New York City—the Brooklyn Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the city’s famous auction houses.
Through Young Associate and Family Activities, young people, ages three to fifteen, alone, or with their families, can enhance their enjoyment of the Smithsonian’s resources. Classes, workshops, monthly free films for families, tours, and performances exploring topics in history, art sciences, and studio arts are specially tailored to their ages and interests. During fiscal year 1981, 153 such programs were attended by 12,292 individuals.
More than four hundred fifty volunteers provided invaluable assistance to the Resident Associate Program, monitoring special events, lectures, courses, and tours, and performing vital office duties. The eighty volunteer office-workers represent the equivalent of five full-time staff members. In appreciation of their contribution to the program, the volunteers were feted at a special reception at the Renwick Gallery on September 14.
Membership and Development / 301

<<<Page: 317>>>

Smithsonian Year * 1981
Office of Public Affairs
The Office of Public Affairs (opa), as part of its assigned task to encourage visits to the Smithsonian, continued in fiscal year 1981 to develop effective use of television public-service announcements (psAs) to reinforce news about the Institution’s activities published in newspapers and magazines. One thirty-second videotaped psa, stressing the appeal of performances and celebrations as well as exhibitions and permanent halls, was distributed in the spring of 1981 and used by twenty-three television stations within a five-hundred-mile radius of Washington with a potential viewership totaling in the millions.
For the first time, with the aid of a grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, the opa was able to produce a Spanish-language version of an existing public service announcement to stimulate visits by Spanish-speaking Americans. The Spanish-language psa was notably successful, being used by 75 percent of the outlets to which it was sent. Among these was a network with 116 affiliated stations.
In addition, the opa provided assistance to individual bureaus and offices in the production of television psas. Working with the Motion Picture Unit of the Office of Exhibits Central, opa produced a thirty-second television psa on the new Coral Reef exhibition at the National Museum of Natural History. Ora also worked with the Corcoran Gallery of Art and the Museum of African Art to produce a television psa on the jointly sponsored exhibition, Treasures of Nigerian Art.

<<<Page: 318>>>

The Smithsonian News Service, a free monthly feature-story service produced by the opa for daily and weekly newspapers, completed its second year and continued to receive an enthusiastic reception from hundreds of publications throughout the United States and a number of foreign countries. During the year, the News Service distributed fifty articles, virtually all of them accompanied by photographs and illustrations, on such subjects as space exploration, the image of blacks in Western art, endangered species, the art of calligraphy, auctions, kites, Mt. St. Helens, American Indian diplomats, the mystery of the pyramids, and innovative furniture. The scope of the News Service reflected not only the variety of Smithsonian activities but also the diversity and intensity of Smithsonian research in art, history, and the sciences.
Office of Special Events
As the principal coordinating and organizing unit for Smithsonian events that emphasize institutional programs and activities, the Office of Special Events manages several hundred events each year. In addition, the office receives several thousand requests yearly from outside organizations wishing to use Smithsonian space. The office determines which requests meet the regulations requiring that such events be closely related to the Institution’s own museum and education programs.
Public Information / 303

<<<Page: 319>>>

A dance highlight of the Kennedy Center’s 1980-81 season was the Washington premiere of Frescoes performed by the Martha Graham Dance Company.

<<<Page: 320>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
THe JoHN F. KenNepy CENTER for the Performing Arts, on September 8, 1981, celebrated its tenth anniversary as the nation’s cultural center. An intensive two-week commemoration inaugurated a yearlong observance designed to mark the beginning of a second decade of excellence in performing-arts programming and educational and public-service activity.
Anniversaries, of necessity, invite recollection but also rededication. The Kennedy Center formally acknowledged the latter spirit with a new production of Leonard Bernstein’s Mass, A Theatre Piece for Singers, Players, and Dancers, the work that had marked the opening of the center ten years earlier. Mass was enjoyed not only by audiences at the center but across the country, when the production was broadcast live from the center in September on public television’s Kennedy Center Tonight series.
Other programming during the anniversary week reflected the center’s commitment to diverse, quality performing-arts programming; a salute to jazz artist Lionel Hampton; the first concert in the “American Portrait Series” dedicated to the music of composer Aaron Copland; and an anniversary concert by the National Symphony Orchestra to benefit the center’s Specially Priced Ticket Program for those on fixed, low incomes.
An appropriate focus on history was naturally a part of the anniversary celebration. The center announced the forthcoming publication by Harry N. Abrams, Inc., of a commemorative volume entitled, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, by noted New Yorker writer, Brendan Gill. In both narrative and extensive

<<<Page: 321>>>

color photographic plates, the book will highlight the history of the center through its opening in 1971 and its programming and public-service achievements during its first decade of operation. The first ten years were also marked by a commemorative poster by noted artist, Richard Diebenkorn.
Since the first performance of Leonard Bernstein’s Mass, the center has operated seven days a week, 365 days a year, attracted more than forty million visitors and patrons, and presented more than ten thousand performances of theater, musical comedy, dance, opera, symphonic, chamber, and popular music. The broad national participation and enjoyment, envisioned by Congress and every American president since Dwight D. Eisenhower for our nation’s cultural center, has been realized.
The Kennedy Center is administered as a separate, independent, and self-sustaining bureau of the Smithsonian Institution. Other independent performing-arts institutions that present their programming at the center include the National Symphony Orchestra, The Washington Opera, American Film Institute, and Washington Performing Arts Society. The activities of each of these organizations at the center during the past year are reflected in this report.
The center’s success as a performing-arts operation has enabled it to attract substantial private funding to supplement box-office revenue. Private gifts from corporations, foundations, and individuals this past year totaled more than $3.3 million and were directed chiefly toward the fulfillment of the center’s performing arts and public-service mandate. The success of the center’s private fund-raising, chiefly the Corporate Fund for the Performing Arts, has for the past few years allowed the center to expand its commitment to a national role in the performing arts in America. This commitment has been pursued over the past several years in many ways, but focused particularly on the presentation of such younger artists and companies as The Acting Company, the Young Concert Artists Series, the Aspen Chamber Symphony, and the development of a nationally focused Education Program.
In the course of the past year, the center utilized the medium of television in a major way to carry its performing-arts programming across America. The year’s first regular public television broadcasts included classical music, jazz, and theater, concluding with the live broadcast of Leonard Bernstein’s Mass during the tenth anniversary
306 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 322>>>

week celebration. The highly acclaimed production of Carlisle Floyd’s Willie Stark, coproduced by the center and the Houston Grand Opera, was the 1981 season’s opening program on Exxon’s “Great Performances” series, also broadcast on public television.
The second of three public television seasons to be produced by WQED, in association with the center, will feature a Jazz Salute to Lionel Hampton; a Portrait of Dance Theatre of Harlem; an operatic tribute to the great baritone, George London; and a special gala evening highlighting Washington’s musical theatre history, a benefit for PBs.
During this past year, many other special events were noteworthy; chief among them, various celebrations held at the center for the inauguration of President Ronald Reagan. The center was the site of concerts by outstanding performers in music, dance, and inaugural balls.
In the tradition of many foreign countries that have chosen to honor the memory of the late President Kennedy with gifts to the center, the Honorable Andrew J. Jacovides, Ambassador to the United States from Cyprus, presented an ancient amphora, dating 800-725 B.C., and now on permanent display on the Box Tier of the Eisenhower Theater.
Performing Arts Programming
The 1980-81 season at the Kennedy Center encompassed performances in the Opera House, Concert Hall, and the Eisenhower and Terrace theaters to audiences exceeding 1.4 million. Programming highlights are outlined in the sections that follow.
During the 1980-81 theater season, the Eisenhower Theater housed nine dramatic productions, including major revivals of Lillian Hellman’s The Little Foxes and Terence Rattigan’s The Winslow Boy. There were also productions of new works—Ruth Wolff’s Sarah in America, based on the life of legendary actress Sarah Bernhardt, and the National Theatre of Great Britain’s staging of David Storey’s Early Days.
Musical theater in the Opera House included the award-winning
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 307

<<<Page: 323>>>

Sweeney Todd and Barnum, pre-Broadway engagements of Sophisticated Ladies, as well as an “Anniversary” return engagement of Annie, which had premiered at the center in 1977. Highlights of the musical theater season were Carlisle Floyd’s Willie Stark, commissioned by the Kennedy Center and jointly produced with the Houston Grand Opera, and a new production of Leonard Bernstein’s Mass.
Terrace Theater dramatic offerings included Folger Theater Group productions of two new plays: Tina Howe’s Museum and Amlin Gray’s How I Got that Story. The Acting Company returned for its third residency under center sponsorship; the company’s repertory included Alan Schneider’s twenty-fifth-anniversary production of Beckett’s Waiting for Godot and Goldoni’s I] Campiello. The Theater Lab was the site for presentation of innovative new works and reader’s theater productions including: Robert Wilson’s Medea; a new musical, Good Sports, by Carol Hall and Susan Rice; and James Bronson’s The Invasion of Addis Ababa, presented under the sponsorship of the center’s National Black Theater and Playwright Project.
Both the Eisenhower and Terrace theaters were equipped during the 1980-81 season with infra-red listening equipment to aid the hearing-impaired. The installation and free use of the equipment by the center’s patrons was made possible by a grant from the Public Welfare Foundation.
Since 1971, some 178 theatrical productions have been presented at the Kennedy Center. Of these, 103 have been produced, coproduced, or made possible by the center itself.
The Kennedy Center, over the past year, presented the most extensive season of American dance in its ten-year history, comprised of 147 performances by 15 companies. Two works were premiered by the American Ballet Theatre and the Martha Graham Dance Company: the Raymonda (Divertissements), and Acts of Light. In addition, there were Washington or American premieres of works by the Dance Theatre of Harlem, New York City Ballet, and the Eliot Feld Ballet, as well as many of the contemporary works performed by companies in the premiere “Dance America” series, cosponsored by the center and the Washington Performing Arts
308 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 324>>>

Society. Companies featured in the series included the Laura Dean Dancers, the Bella Lewitsky Dance Company, Pilobolus, and the Lar Lubovitch Dance Company.
Britain’s Royal Ballet celebrated its fiftieth anniversary season with a summer American tour, including a two-week engagement in the center’s Opera House. In addition to such favorites as Sleeping Beauty and Swan Lake, the company presented its new ballets, Kenneth MacMiillan’s Isadora and Gloria.
Finally, the center joined with the American College Dance Festival Association to sponsor the first National College Dance Festival, which offered master classes in all areas of dance and related theatrical specialties, concerts by student performers, and career seminars. Distinguished teacher-artists for the festival included Honi Coles, Chuck Davis, Melissa Hayden, Murray Louis, and Sarah Stackhouse. The festival culminated in a concert of college dance performances featuring thirty-seven dancers selected from five regional festivals; choreography and performance scholarships were presented by Dance magazine.
The 1980-81 musical season may well be remembered best for its birthday observances: the National Symphony Orchestra celebrated its fiftieth anniversary; The Washington Opera observed its twenty-fifth season. Gala evening concerts marked composer Ernest Bloch’s centennial and Isaac Stern’s sixtieth and Aaron Copland’s eightieth birthdays. The full musical calendar totaled 378 performances: 150 symphony concerts, 59 opera performances, 39 recitals, 21 choral concerts, 55 chamber-music concerts, and 54 concerts by folk, jazz, and popular artists.
Isaac Stern’s birthday concerts featured Mr. Stern as solo violinist with the National Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of five distinguished conductors: the symphony’s music director, Mstislav Rostropovich, as well as Zubin Mehta, Eugene Ormandy, Julius Rudel, and Leonard Slatkin. Aaron Copland’s eightieth birthday celebration in the Concert Hall was shared by a nationwide public television audience on Kennedy Center Tonight! and featured conductors Leonard Bernstein and Mstislav Rostropovich, as well as Mr. Copland—both as conductor and narrator—with the National Symphony Orchestra. The Baltimore Symphony Or-
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 309

<<<Page: 325>>>

Composer Aaron Copland and National Symphony Music Director Mstislav Rostropovich shared center stage at Nso’s salute to Mr. Copland on his 80th birthday. The gala evening was the premiere broadcast of the Kennedy Center Tonight! public TV series.

<<<Page: 326>>>

chestra and Chorus honored Ernest Bloch’s centennial with a performance devoted to his works.
The Metropolitan Opera returned for a two-week engagement for its second appearance at Kennedy Center—its most extensive performance schedule outside New York City. Seven operas, including new productions of Verdi’s La Traviata, plus the Verdi Requiem, were presented. The Washington Opera silver anniversary season opened with Verdi’s Un Ballo in Maschera and included six other productions that utilized both the Opera House and Terrace Theater. The fifth annual Handel Festival concerts featured his most beloved music, the oratorio Belshazzar, and a concert version of the opera Ariodante.
Chamber music has been given increasing attention at the center, focusing on the Terrace Theater as the most suitable recital hall. The Theater Chamber Players were resident in the Terrace Theater again this past year, and Artistic Director Marta Istomin announced a new series of Terrace Concerts for the tenth anniversary season, which will include a broad sampling of the chamber-music repertoire. Highlights are the “American Portrait Series,” devoted to the works of a single composer, and an “Art Song Series.” The “American Portrait Series’ was inaugurated in September, with evenings devoted to composers Aaron Copland and Ned Rorem. The fourth annual Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards competition for 1981 were devoted to chamber-music composition. The first prize winner of the $5 thousand cash award was Joseph Schwantner; two other prizes and an honorable mention were also awarded. In alternating years, the Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards recognize American composition in symphonic and chamber music. The awards honor the late Arthur Friedheim and are supported, in part, by a grant from the Eric Friedheim Foundation.
This past summer, the center also presented “Festival of Festivals,” a planned annual event, offering a selection of the country’s best-known chamber music ensembles, orchestra, and recital artists. Included were the Carnegie Hall Festival Concerts, featuring the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra under the direction of Pinchas Zukerman; Lincoln Center’s Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra, conducted by Alexander Schneider and Leonard Slatkin; and the Aspen Music Festival. The Aspen Festival, on tour for the first time, brought the Aspen Chamber Symphony, the Cleveland
John F, Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 311

<<<Page: 327>>>

Quartet, and the American Brass Quintet, as well as outstanding soloists.
Popular music also had particular highlights: singer Barbara Cook was presented for a two-week engagement in the Terrace Theater, while famed vibraharpist, Lionel Hampton, was the focus of a special jazz salute at the White House and the Kennedy Center Concert Hall. The program featured nearly a score of the nation’s outstanding jazz performers and was videotaped for public television broadcast scheduled for January 27, 1982.
The American Film Institute (arr) has presented film programming in its 224-seat theater at Kennedy Center since 1973. Since that time, nearly six thousand motion pictures have been shown to audiences approaching one million people. Many of the films are drawn from ari’s own motion picture archives. The institute has, in addition, cooperated with the Library of Congress to carry out the most extensive film preservation program in the nation.
This past year, the art Theater at the center became one of the first facilities in the country to be equipped for high-quality, largescreen video projection, thus enabling the institute to offer, for the first time, video as well as film programming. Sony Corporation of America donated the equipment for the video installation and also helped to support the first annual National Video Festival at the Center.
Ari also acquired a permanent West Coast campus in Los Angeles to house the ari Center for Advanced Film Studies and such national programs as the Directing Workshop for Women. The institute’s Public Service Programs conducted film and television courses in Boston, Chicago, and Dallas, for the first time, as well as continuing its programs in Washington, New York, and Los Angeles. Dr. Bruno Bettelheim delivered the inaugural Patricia Wise Lecture on film, television, and video at Kennedy Center.
Finally, the ar1 Theater at Kennedy Center continues to present new and classic films and theme programming. A new Exhibition Services Program was initiated, however, in addition to art’s subscription and membership programming, in order to enable ari to exhibit film and video works in conjunction with regional film centers, universities, museums, and performing-arts centers around
312 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 328>>>

the country. During the first year of the new exhibition service, a “New American Cinema” series and “Jewish Film Festival’ were
offered.
Public Service Programming
The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts reaches far beyond Washington, D.C., to enrich the lives of millions of Americans. Through its congressionally mandated artistic, educational, and public-service programs, the center has become a national catalyst in creating an active partnership with the state to spur volunteer effort and significant private fund-raising around the country on behalf of the arts. For the past ten years, the center’s Board of Trustees has raised private funds, in steadily increasing amounts, to sponsor and share, nation-wide, the quality programming that has become the center’s hallmark. During the past year, the Kennedy Center allocated more than $2.5 million raised from private sources—principally the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund and private foundations—to carry out Section 4 responsibilities mandated by Congress, to wit:
1. present classical and contemporary music, opera, drama,
dance and poetry from this and other countries;
2. present lectures and other programs;
3. develop programs for children, youth and the elderly (and
other age groups as well);
4. provide facilities for other civic activities.
During the past year, 358 public-service events were presented at the Kennedy Center, of which 293 were sponsored by the center itself and 65 by associated institutions and public-service organizations. Audience attendance for these events totaled 245 thousand. Highlights for the year included free open rehearsals of Robert Wilson’s Medea in the Theater Lab, the Twelfth Annual InterAmerican Music Festival—highlighted by the Washington premiere appearance of the Mexico City Philharmonic and a public exhibition in the Grand Foyer entitled, Creativity, the Human Resource, sponsored by the Chevron Family of Companies.
The 1980 Holiday Festival presented eighteen free and lowadmission events for the entire family. Festival highlights included:
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 313

<<<Page: 329>>>

an original production for young audiences entitled, Season To Be; the annual Messiah Sing-Along; and A Night in Old Vienna on New Year’s Eve—dancing enjoyed by more than seven thousand people in the Grand Foyer, following a concert by the New York String Orchestra under the direction of Alexander Schneider.
The Specially Priced Ticket Program has been a key element in the center's public-service efforts since its opening. As evidence of its stated commitment to broad national participation in the performing arts, the center maintains, through the Specially Priced Ticket Program, the most extensive reduced-price ticket program in the country. The program is administered every day of the year by Friends of the Kennedy Center volunteers and offers up to fifteen percent of available tickets at half-price to students; handicapped, senior, and low-income citizens; and military personnel in grades E-1 through E-4.
The cost of the Specially Priced Ticket Program, represented by the potential additional gross income lost to the center, is borne by the center. During the twelve-month period ending September 30, 1981, 102,612 tickets, for attractions produced or presented by the center, were sold through the Specially Priced Ticket Program at half-price at a total cost of $587,686.
The center also requires all presenters and independent producers to participate in the Specially Priced Ticket Program, by offering a percentage of their tickets for sale at half-price. During fiscal year 1981, combined half-price ticket sales for center-produced/presented attractions, and those of other presenters, totaled 119,624. The sale of these tickets at full price would have resulted in additional gross income of $1,083,889 to the center, its associated organizations, and independent producers.
Education Programming
The Kennedy Center’s authorizing legislation specifically directed the Board of Trustees to develop programs for children and youth in the performing arts. The Kennedy Center’s Education Program was designed toward this end to provide national leadership in the
314 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 330>>>

field of arts education and to cooperate with regional performingarts centers and education networks across the country in developing and presenting model performances for young audiences.
To serve these ends, the program has four coordinated components: the Alliance for Arts Education, the Programs for Children and Youth, the American College Theatre Festival, and Arts Coalition Northwest. Programs for Children and Youth and the American College Theatre Festival present performances for and by young people. The Alliance for Arts Education and Arts Coalition Northwest serve as national and regional networks for the exchange of information and the identification and support of model arts-education programs. At both the state and national levels, the Kennedy Center Education Program seeks, by identifying and supporting exemplary arts-education projects, to promote incorporation of the arts into the education of every child. As part of this commitment, the center works closely with its educational affiliate—the National Committee, Arts for the Handicapped.
The Alliance for Arts Education (Aa) is a network composed of fifty-six committees: one in each of fifty states plus representation for American Samoa, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Department of Defense Dependents Schools-Pacific Area, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. The national office, housed at the Kennedy Center, is responsible for promoting information exchange among AAE committees, providing technical assistance, in the field of arts education upon request, to the committees and the public and distributing to the committees operational and programmatic funds provided by the U.S. Department of Education. Each committee (usually composed of representatives from private and public agencies involved in arts education) sets its own goals, objectives, and activities. Most often, these activities focus on the committee’s role as a forum: for state and local awareness and advocacy work for arts education; for the development and implementation of statewide plans for comprehensive arts education; and for providing consultant services to individuals and organizations conducting arts education programs and projects.
The national aae director and staff, including a special consultant and five regional chairmen provided direct technical assistance and
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 315

<<<Page: 331>>>

consultation services to more than half of the aaE committees during fiscal year 1981. Each committee received a copy of a new slidetape presentation, “The Arts in Education: A Promise,” prepared by the national aat office, and samples of print-medium public awareness materials created through a partnership with the School of Art of the Cooper Union in New York City. The national Aaet office published Interchange, a bimonthly arts-education newspaper for the field, and such occasional publications as The Upside-down Curriculum, by Junius Eddy, during fiscal year 1981. Funds to support the operational and programmatic activities were provided to more than forty AAE committees around the country. Regional conference were held in Concord, New Hampshire; Hartford, Connecticut; and Charleston, South Carolina.
The commitment of the center’s Education Program, to quality performing arts programming for young people, is clearly expressed in the goals of its Programs for Children and Youth (rcy): “to support arts education programs in the schools through the medium of performance and to provide a variety of quality performances to student and general audiences.” Along with the development and presentation of performances for young people, materials are provided for audiences and teachers to help integrate the performance experience into the student’s over-all education.
During the 1980-81 season, the pcy presented nearly three hundred free performances and related events to audiences of more than 150 thousand in Washington, D.C., and cities around the country. The pcy produced a model Children’s Arts Series at the Kennedy Center in the fall, featuring professional artists performing for young people and a Black History Month Festival during February. Performing companies were selected from across the United States to represent the culturally diverse population of our country. Featured groups from the 1980-81 season included the Paul Winter Consort, the Connecticut Ballet Company, the Hartford Stage Company, and the Dance Theatre of Harlem.
Programs for Children and Youth annually presents ‘Imagination Celebration,” a national children’s arts festival at the Kennedy Center, with major elements replicated in similar outreach festivals in selected cities throughout the United States. This program not only
316 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 332>>>

provides a model for performing-arts festivals for young audiences, but enables the Kennedy Center to contribute to the development of new works, to involve noted artists in performing for young people, and to serve as a catalyst for the development of programs for young people at performing arts centers throughout the country; Denver, Chicago, Seattle, Atlanta, Milwaukee, Phoenix, and Birmingham have mounted “Imagination Celebrations.” The pcy provides technical assistance and core professional productions for each outreach festival, featuring such well-known artists as Sarah Caldwell, Jacques d’Amboise, and Leon Bibb. Each year during the “Imagination Celebration,” an Award for Excellence is presented to an outstanding artist or individual for their contribution to young people through the arts. The recipient of this year’s award was noted artist and writer, Maurice Sendak.
Another component of the rcy is the series of Arts Education Workshops offered to elementary and secondary school teachers, created to provide greater awareness and appreciation for all the art forms, thus enhancing teacher commitment to the arts in education. The workshops are offered annually in the fall and spring.
During 1980-81, pcy was supported by the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, the Department of Education, and a grant from Mobil Oil Company Foundation, Inc., and received generous assistance from the Friends of the Kennedy Center.
The American College Theatre Festival (actF) is presented annually by the Kennedy Center, providing national recognition of the efforts of college and university theaters throughout the United States. More than thirteen thousand students and twenty-five hundred faculty members from more than four hundred sixty schools participated in actr xu. Their productions across the country drew audiences of more than two million. The festival seeks to encourage new styles of theatrical presentation and methods of staging, innovative approaches to the classics, original plays by young writers, and revivals of significant plays of the past. It emphasizes excellence of total production, including acting, directing, design, and writing.
Nearly eighty productions were presented in twelve regional festivals. Of these, eight were chosen for showcase presentation at the Kennedy Center’s Terrace Theater: Jerrigg, Oakland University,
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 317

<<<Page: 333>>>

Rochester, Michigan; Private Life of the Master Race, University of Nevada, Reno, Nevada; Going On!, William Paterson College, Wayne, New Jersey; All the Way Home, University of Evansville, Evansville, Indiana; Swansong for a Unicorn, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois; The House Across the Street, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa; Story Theatre, St. Michael’s College, Winooski, Vermont; and Red Peppers Plus, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois. Fifty percent of the schools that performed at the national festival in Washington produced original plays written by student authors.
This year, three new projects were added to the acTF program. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ascaP) sponsored an award for outstanding achievement in musical composition by college and university students. A training internship in theater administration will allow the student recipient to study in London for a year with the British-American Repertory Company. Actr also announced the formation of a technical assistance project, which—in cooperation with the Kennedy Center’s National Committee on Cultural Diversity in the Performing Arts—will seek to broaden the scope of participation by traditionally black colleges and universities in the actF.
Actr, supported by the Amoco Companies and the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, is produced by the University and College Theatre Association for the American Theatre Association and is supported in part by a grant from the U.S. Department of Education.
Arts Coalition Northwest (acN) is a cooperative arts-in-education pilot project of the Kennedy Center and Seattle Center, serving the states of Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington. AcNn promotes the sharing of information, strategies, programs, and resources among school districts, arts funding agencies, the Kennedy Center, and regional cultural centers. It represents a federal-statelocal partnership for arts education while linking the programs of a national cultural center with the community and school efforts of a regional arts center. During fiscal year 1981, acn provided financial support and technical assistance for program planning, training, and curriculum development in arts education. In addition to pro-
318 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 334>>>

viding funding and technical support for ‘Imagination Celebration” in Seattle and publishing four issues of its newsletter, CoalitionUpdate, acn developed and published a test-version of a new arts education magazine, Artsploration, designed to serve students in communities removed from major urban cultural resources. AcN provides the model for a network of regional arts-education activities that enables the Kennedy Center to extend its national outreach by strengthening and supporting arts education and the performing arts around the country.
Cultural Diversity Programming
In June 1980, a standing National Committee on Cultural Diversity in the Performing Arts was named to continue the work of the Chairman’s National Commission to Expand the Scope and Constituency of Black Participation in the Performing Arts, which had submitted its final report in March 1979. The members of the committee, which acts as an advisory group to the chairman of the board of trustees on minority affairs, are: composer Roque Cordero; singer Ella Fitzgerald; actress Cicely Tyson; pianist André Watts; playwright Richard Wesley; and trustees Marjorie M. Lawson and Henry Strong. Dr. Archie L. Buffkins, who had served as president of the commission, continues as consultant to the Kennedy Center and president of the committee; Thomas R. Kendrick, the center’s director of operations, serves as executive liaison.
During the past year, the committee sponsored a number of concert appearances by young artists and implemented the two final recommendations of the National Black Theatre and Playwright Project: revision and updating of a National Black Theater Directory and the establishment of the Black College Technical Assistance Project to increase the participation of historically black colleges and universities in the annual American College Theatre Festival.
As the center’s consultant, Dr. Buffkins was a key resource to television station waeED on planning its “Salute to Duke Ellington,” for broadcast on Kennedy Center Tonight! Dr. Buffkins served as producer, later in the year, for a gala benefit salute to vibraharpist
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 319

<<<Page: 335>>>

Lionel Hampton, as part of the center’s tenth anniversary celebration. Throughout the year, Dr. Buffkins served as an advisor within the center and acted as an important liaison on behalf of the center to wide variety of community performing-arts groups.
Friends of the Kennedy Center
The Friends of the Kennedy Center (Fkc) was authorized in 1966 by the center’s board of trustees as a nationwide self-supporting auxiliary of volunteers and donor members. In the Washington metropolitan area, the rxc volunteers contributed more than 65 thousand hours of service over the past year to provide visitor and information services 365 days a year. The volunteers staffed the center’s souvenir shops, provided special visitor assistance to the handicapped, and administered the Specially Priced Ticket Program—the most extensive half-price ticket program in the country.
The rFxc organization also helps provide public-service programs on behalf of the center and promotes a national membership network to aid and sustain the center’s national outreach and programming activities. During the past year, a major national-membership program was developed to coincide with the center’s tenth anniversary. Members will now receive Kennedy Center News, a new bimonthly periodical published by the rxc, and be able to involve themselves in such outreach activities as The Acting Company’s national tour, the annual American College Theatre Festival, “Imagination Celebration,” Children’s Arts Festivals, and the National Performing Arts Library at Kennedy Center. To assist the recruitment of new members, a national membership committee has been formed on which many of the former FKc state chairmen have agreed to serve.
Throughout the past year, the rKc sponsored such weekly free public-service events as “Conversations from Kennedy Center,” weekly live and radio-broadcast symposia with leading guest performing artists appearing at the center and around Washington; free demonstrations of the Filene Organ in the Concert Hall; and special tours of the center as part of the annual summer 4-H program in Washington, D.C.
320 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 336>>>

Friends tour guides offer free tours of the Kennedy Center every day of the year to the more than six thousand people who visit the center on an average day. Tours are conducted in French, German, and Spanish, as well as English, to accommodate the unusually large numbers of visitors from abroad; tour script translations are also available in Dutch, Italian, Hebrew, and Japanese. Group tours, including those arranged through the offices of each United States senator and member of Congress, are also offered on a daily basis.
The revenue from FKc membership and the Fxc souvenir shops is designed to assist the over-all public-service and performing-arts mandate established for the Kennedy Center by its authorizing legislation. In addition, this past year the FKc was feted by the department store, Woodward & Lothrop, on the occasion of the store’s one hundredth anniversary; Mary Martin served as honorary chairman of the benefit.
Mrs. Polk Guest has served as chairman of the Friends of the Kennedy Center since its founding in 1966.
Performing Arts Library
The Performing Arts Library (pat), a joint project of the center and the Library of Congress, opened to the public in March 1979 as the final element in the new Terrace Theater’s artistic and educational complex. During the past year, nearly twenty thousand visitors utilized the library’s information, reference, audio-visual, and exhibit facilities. In addition to the services provided artists, directors, visitors, patrons, and staff at the Kennedy Center, the library staff responded to requests from all parts of the country on the performing arts and received many visitors from around the world as well. The library’s video display computer link to the collections of the Library of Congress enhanced and assisted all of its service.
The staff of the rat includes specialist reference personnel in theater, music, and dance. Throughout the year, special bibliographies were prepared, and exhibitions and displays were mounted to complement programming highlights at Kennedy Center: the premiere of Sarah in America, based on the travels of Sarah Bernhardt; Aaron Copland’s eightieth birthday celebration; and a major exhibi-
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 321

<<<Page: 337>>>

tion entitled Highlights of a Decade, to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the center.
The pat was supported by the Library of Congress and a major gift from R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc., through the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund.
Kennedy Center Honors
The board of trustees of the Kennedy Center inaugurated the Kennedy Center Honors Program in 1978 to recognize, on behalf of the nation, the outstanding individuals who have enlivened American life and culture through their distinguished personal achievements in the performing arts. Each year the honorees have been received at the White House and celebrated at the center with a gala performance—which has been subsequently broadcast by css on nationwide television—in their honor.
The 1980 recipients of the Kennedy Center Honors were Leonard Bernstein, James Cagney, Agnes de Mille, Lynn Fontanne, and Leontyne Price. The board of trustees recently announced the 1981 honorees, whose life achievements will be the focus of this year’s gala in the Opera House on December 6: Count Basie, Cary Grant, Helen Hayes, Jerome Robbins, and Rudolf Serkin.
The Kennedy Center also initiated this past year, with the generous assistance of the Warner Communications Fund for the Arts, an Honors Oral History Program, designed to produce extensive videotaped oral history interviews with each of the center’s honorees. Interviews with Leonard Bernstein, Aaron Copland, Agnes de Mille, and Leontyne Price were completed during the first year of the project. The videotapes and transcripts are available for research consultation in the center’s Performing Arts Library.
Nationally Televised Programming
National audiences have shared outstanding evenings of entertainment celebrating The Kennedy Center Honors recipients since the Honors were established in 1978. During 1980-81, the center inaugurated its first regular season of broadcasts nation-wide on
322 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 338>>>

public television, with a Kennedy Center Tonight! series produced in association with station wQepD in Pittsburgh and supported by the Shell Companies Foundation and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The Kennedy Center has sought a variety of means to make its quality performing-arts programming available to the entire nation. Its theater productions and sponsored companies have traveled to cities across America; its children’s arts festival has spawned “Imagination Celebrations” in Atlanta, Phoenix, Chicago, Milwaukee, Birmingham and Seattle. Kennedy Center Tonight! enables the center to offer an unusually varied array of programming to national audiences but also to make a genuine contribution to the development of television as a medium for broadcasting performingarts events. The performances selected for broadcast on Kennedy Center Tonight! offer artists and works of unusual merit and a unique opportunity for audiences to glimpse behind-the-scenes of the event itself to a better appreciation of the work, its source, and the artists.
The first year’s broadcasts were inaugurated with an incomparable eightieth birthday salute to composer Aaron Copland, featuring the National Symphony Orchestra (Nso) under the direction of the composer, Leonard Bernstein, and Nso musical director, Mstislav Rostropovich. The television season continued with Ruth Wolff’s new play, Sarah in America, featuring Lilli Palmer as Sarah Bernhardt; a jazz portrait of Duke Ellington, featuring Sarah Vaughn, Billy Taylor, and Joe Williams; and concluded with a live broadcast of a new production of Leonard Bernstein’s Mass in celebration of the center’s tenth anniversary in September. The Kennedy Center was also represented for the first time on the award-winning Great Performances series, which launched its 1981 broadcast season with Carlisle Floyd’s Willie Stark, jointly produced for the stage by Houston Grand Opera and Kennedy Center, and subsequently restaged specifically for public-television viewing.
In the ten years that the center has been open, more than forty million visitors have come from around the country and the world to experience the living memorial created by Congress to honor the late President Kennedy. In the space of little more than a year, the center's outstanding performing arts programming has been enjoyed by even larger television audiences and will be shared by millions more in the seasons to come.
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 323

<<<Page: 339>>>

Funding
The National Cultural Center was authorized by an act of Congress that was signed into law by President Dwight D. Eisenhower on September 2, 1958. Following the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Congress, by joint resolution, dedicated the center as the sole memorial in the capital to the late president and renamed the center a living memorial to him in 1964. That same act of Congress authorized federal matching funds and borrowing authority to assist the construction of the building, which was begun the same year it was renamed the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The center’s board of trustees raised more than $34 million to construct the building—far exceeding the matching requirement, and have continued to raise substantial private funding each year to support the programming and public-service activities mandated by Congress in Section 4 of the center’s authorizing legislation.
The Kennedy Center’s operating budget for 1981, from its theater operations, concession income, and contributions, exceeded $21 million. More than $3.3 million was raised from private sources in order for the center to fulfill its mission as a national performingarts center and to sustain a year-round calendar of educational and public-service programming. As the national cultural center, the Kennedy Center receives no direct federal, state, or municipal support for its performing arts programming. The United States Department of Education has, however, jointly sponsored the Alliance for Arts Education and partially supported the three remaining elements of the center’s education programs—the American College Theatre Festival, the Programs for Children and Youth, and Arts Coalition Northwest.
The National Park Service maintains the Kennedy Center as a presidential memorial and is responsible for its security. The center, however, must reimburse the National Park Service a 23.8 percent pro rata share of maintenance, utility, and housekeeping expenses allocated to its operation as a performing arts center. Beyond its 1981 reimbursement to the National Park Service of nearly $900 thousand for its apportioned share of maintenance, utility, and housekeeping costs, the Kennedy Center, in addition, bears the complete cost of maintaining its five theaters and extensive backstage and office facilities.
324 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 340>>>

Since its opening in 1971, foundations, corporations, and individuals have contributed more than $17 million to enable the center to carry out the broad mandate of performing arts, public service, and educational programming set forth in its authorizing legislation but not supported by federal appropriations. A major portion of the private support contributed on behalf of the center has been provided by the Corporate Fund for the Performing Arts at Kennedy Center.
The Corporate Fund was organized in 1977 by the principal officers of thirty-six major American corporations and currently represents nearly two hundred corporations committed to the support of the center as a national cultural center. Funds contributed to the Corporated Fund enable the center to extend its national outreach through programming and public-service activities, to foster new works, and to offer performing arts programming at reduced prices or, in many instances, at no admission charge whatsoever.
Participation in the Corporate Fund is open to any corporation that contributes to the center. John J. Horan, chairman and chief executive officer of Merck & Company, Inc., served as chairman of the 1981 Corporate Fund. The members of the board of governors and a listing of fund contributions received during the past year are named in Appendices 1 and 8, respectively.
Board of Trustees
The Kennedy Center is independently administered as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution by a board of trustees, thirty of whose members are citizens appointed by the president of the United States for ten-year overlapping terms. The remaining fifteen members are legislatively designated ex officio representatives of the legislative branch and executive departments of the federal government. Members of the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees are listed in Appendix 1.
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 325

<<<Page: 341>>>

Smithsonian Year » 1981
Tue Witson Center—with the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and the National Gallery of Art—is one of three institutions with mixed trust/public funding created by the Congress within the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., fulfilling a national mission under a board appointed by the president of the United States. The Wilson Center is an active workshop and switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels. Since its opening eleven years ago this fall, it has gained widespread recognition for the work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of Washington, for its many meetings that bring together the world of affairs and the world of ideas, and for its democratic openness to all comers through its annual fellowship competition.
Each year, some forty-five fellows are brought in through open international competition involving ever-increasing numbers of applicants from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines, cultures, and nations. A broad spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a nonspecialized national audience through The Wilson Quarterly, which already has more subscribers than any other scholarly quarterly journal in the English-speaking world.
The Wilson Center seeks to render a service to the world and to the Washington, D.C., community by throwing open its core fellowship program to all interested individuals. Fellows are selected for the promise, importance, and appropriateness of their projects on the recommendation of broadly based academic panels outside the center. The fellows come for limited periods, not only in the

<<<Page: 342>>>

broadly inclusive program of history, culture, and society studies, but also in special programs in Russian and Soviet studies (the Kennan Institute), Latin American studies, international security studies, East Asia studies, and a program in American society and politics. Each program is directed by a scholar on the staff.
Following its mandate to symbolize and strengthen the fruitful relation between the worlds of learning and of public affairs, the center sponsors conferences and seminars on topics of special current interest to both worlds. In 1981, for example, the center brought together scholars, members of Congress, representatives of the Executive Branch concerned with foreign policy, businessmen and foreign experts on seven occasions to discuss the national interests of the United States in foreign policy. In November 1980 the center and the Smithsonian jointly hosted a remarkable evening with Harold Macmillan reflecting on politics, with commentary by John Brademas and William F. Buckley. Throughout the spring, the International Security Studies Program sponsored a series of seminars on “security in the Middle East and Persian Gulf Region,” which brought a truly international group of experts together with policy makers to explore the region’s less tractable problems.
The center’s fellows continue to come from many countries, many disciplines, and many areas of the United States. Among its 1981 fellows and guest scholars, the center again counted two novelists, Vassily P. Aksyonov from the Soviet Union, and Nayantara Sahgal from India; a former member of Parliament who is also a noted scholar of China, Roderick MacFarquhar; the chief science editor for the Asahi Shimbun, Shigeru Kimura; one of Poland’s leading economists, Tadeusz Kowalik; a former finance minister of Peru at a crucial juncture in their country’s history, Javier E. Silva Ruete; a British economic historian of Central Europe, Alice Teichova; Jack Walker, professor of political science and public policy at the University of Michigan; John Coleman, a Jesuit student of the relations between the church, secularity, and society; and Anthony H. ‘Cordesman, working on a net assessment of U.S. and Soviet strategic and regional military capabilities. The result of this broad and heterogeneous mix of fellows is an intellectual life greater than the sum of its parts: the collegial atmosphere provides an opportunity for learning and communication that transcends national and academic boundaries for the benefit of all.
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars / 327

<<<Page: 343>>>

Smithsonian Year 1981
THE GROWTH OF READING Is FUNDAMENTAL (RIF), from a single experimental project to a nation-wide, grass-roots movement, can be traced to a singular simple idea: give young people an opportunity to choose and to keep books that interest them, and they will quickly begin to read and learn. In 1981, the fifteenth year since RIF was founded in Washington, D.C., that idea continued to engage millions of children and many thousands of adult volunteers.
Fiscal year 1981 was a year marred by the death on February 3 of Mrs. Robert S. McNamara, founder of the r1F program and chairman of the board for fifteen years, during which riF brought thirtyseven million books to American children. Mrs. McNamara received many honors during her lifetime, and shortly before her death she was awarded the Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, for her contributions to American education through Reading Is Fundamental. Yet 1981 was also a year of tremendous vigor and opportunity, for r1F held to Mrs. McNamara’s vision of putting “a book in every hand” by her successor as chairman, Mrs. Elliot Richardson. Mrs. Richardson and Ruth Graves, president of RIF, welcomed several new members to the board of directors this year, including Mrs. George Bush, Mr. Andrew Heiskell, Mrs. Strom Thurmond, Mr. John McKinley, and Mr. Eugene Rowan.
In 1981 nearly four thousand rir projects in communities in all fifty states and the U.S. offshore possessions gave some 2.6 million young people, age three through high school, the opportunity to

<<<Page: 344>>>

choose and to keep about 8 million books. Close to ninety thousand of those young people were children of migrant and seasonal farm workers, while at least ten thousand were native Americans, many of them living in the most remote villages in Alaska, in the Grand Canyon, and on reservations throughout the southwestern United States. Rir projects also served young people this year in correctional facilities, in libraries such as the Brooklyn Public Library in New York City, and in scores of schools both urban and rural. Approximately six thousand local businesses, service organizations, and state and local governments supported the rir projects with funds and volunteers.
Reading Is Fundamental continued expanding its traditional services to the local projects and the public. For the fifth consecutive year, RIF contracted with the U.S. Department of Education to operate the Inexpensive Book Distribution Program, a federal program modeled on riF that permits RIF to match, with federal funds, the local funds projects raise for books. The rir staff provided direct assistance to project volunteers and to communities interested in establishing r1F projects, holding more than one hundred workshops this year in locations across the country, and giving many thousands of hours of assistance by telephone. Rr also held a special training seminar for twelve outstanding local project directors, who then returned to their communities to serve as consultants to other volunteers.
To stretch the volunteers’ book dollars to serve as many youngsters as possible, r1F negotiates high discounts with book publishers and distributors. Some three hundred forty companies were cooperating with rir this past year, many providing the projects with special services as well as generous discounts.
The Reading Is Fundamental public education campaign, approved by the Advertising Council since 1971, continued to receive generous exposure this year. The rir public service announcement currently being shown features Ed Asner and promotes reading. Since 1971 these announcements have received nearly $20 million in free broadcast time and magazine space from the asc, css, and NBC radio and television networks, from local stations, and from magazines such as Reader's Digest, Newsweek, U.S. News and World Report, Fortune, Business Week, Ladies Home Journal, New York Magazine, and many others.
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. / 329

<<<Page: 345>>>

Corporations, foundations and private citizens continued to contribute generously to Reading Is Fundamental in 1981. More than fifty of the country’s major corporations, foundations, labor unions and organizations supported the program this year.
Reading Is Fundamental has been supported and endorsed by nearly every major educational organization and by many service programs, among them the National Association of Elementary School Principals, the National Association of Secondary School Principals, the National Association for the Education of Young Children, the National Catholic Educational Association, the American Library Association, Association for Library Services to Children, the International Reading Association, the National Urban League, the National Education Association, the Girl Scouts of America, and Campfire Girls, Inc.
U.S. Commissioners of Education, since 1970, have endorsed rir, including Secretary of Education Terrel Bell during his 1974-76 tenure as Commissioner. The r1F idea is extremely simple, so simple that skeptics have occasionally questioned whether it can possibly be effective against a problem as complicated and as stubborn as functional illiteracy. For fifteen years, R1F has received a steady stream of personal testimony from educators, parents, librarians, and even children themselves, insisting that the r1F program creates willing, fluent readers out of even the most reluctant learners.
In fiscal year 1981, RIF commissioned an independent researcher to review the largely unsolicited comments that riF has received in the past five years. It was discovered that nearly eighty percent of the projects (all of which have operated for at least two years) reported that the youngsters they served were spending more time reading because of the rir activities. Nearly seventy percent volunteered that the young people were developing more positive attitudes about reading and learning, and nearly ninety percent reported that parents were actively involved in the rir reading activities. Added to previous research—which has shown, for example, that children who have books in their homes score higher grades on reading tests than those from homes without books—this information demonstrated the continued importance of the Reading Is Fundamental program to the movement for full literacy among U.S. citizens.
330 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 346>>>

Smithsonian Year « 1981
AT THE CLOSE OF FISCAL YEAR 1981, it seems that the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. (ss1e), will cease operations early in fiscal year 1982 and that this important service as it presently exists—a most useful system that allows for better coordination, planning, and management of research and development, at a critical time in our nation’s growth—after thirty years of operation, will not be continued by the federal government.
Although the decision was made by the Office of Management and Budget (oms) in October 1979 to transfer the functions of the ssIE to the Department of Commerce in October of 1980, the Congressional Appropriation Committees withheld approval of federal positions and funds for the integration. This was to allow time for the appropriate congressional committees to consider special legislation that might be necessary to protect the rights and benefits of ssIE employees under a federal takeover of the exchange by the Department of Commerce (poc). The first hearing, relating to the need for special legislation, was held by the House Subcommittee on Compensation and Employee Benefits, Committee on Post Office and Civil Service, on October 20, 1980, with the Honorable Gladys Spellman presiding. Although reelected to the House in November, Mrs. Spellman, for reasons of health, was unable to return to Congress, and further hearings have not been held.
When the Department of Commerce’s fiscal year 1982 budget was resubmitted to the Congress by the new Reagan administration, the decision had been made not to transfer the ss1e functions to the Department of Commerce, but rather to continue the present con-

<<<Page: 347>>>

tract arrangements for the operation of the exchange through ssiE, Inc. In addition, the new administration proposed a $300 thousand cut in the fiscal year 1982 appropriation request, and indicated still greater reductions in 1983 and subsequent years until no appropriation would be required in fiscal year 1985.
The ssre Advisory Council, following a detailed study of the many problems confronting the exchange in its current environment, made a series of recommendations to the ssre Board of Directors to improve operation of the exchange. At its June 22 meeting, the ssiE Board of Directors—after listening to a discussion by Smithsonian Institution officials on their concerns about continuing the corporation under the aegis of the Institution, and having heard the remarks by the president of the exchange as they related to the outlook for the sste in fiscal year 1982 and subsequently, and following a review of the recommendation of the ssre Advisory Council— resolved that the corporation should cease operations early in fiscal year 1982. This would leave sufficient time to use appropriated funds to meet necessary closeout costs in the event a solution on the future operation of the exchange could not be reached between the Institution, ssIE, OMB, and Doc.
Administrators from the Smithsonian and ssieE met with representatives of oms and voc in July to discuss the concerns of the Board and its resolution and to make known the intent of the Institution to close out the operation of the exchange in fiscal year 1982 should a resolution of the issues not be possible. In the interim, the House Appropriations Subcommittee recommended restoration of the $300 thousand cut, which had been proposed by oms in the poc’s FY82 appropriation request for operating funds for ssre. Although no response had been received from oms or Doc by September 1, 1981, the Institution and sste officials met with clerks of the House and Senate Commerce Appropriations committees in early September to apprise them of ssre’s concerns and intentions relative to closing the exchange. Prior to that meeting, the House Appropriations Subcommittee report, which recommended an FY82 increased appropriation request at the FY81 level ($2,042 thousand), indicated that funds could be used for either continuing the Exchange or necessary closing costs in FY82. The Senate Appropriations Subcommittee had not acted on the appropriation report by the House Subcommittee at the time of our meeting on September 4.
332 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 348>>>

In spite of the difficulties and problems relating to the future of ss1E, the exchange managed to continue providing its many services to both the public and private sector, and—although only limited funds were available to develop new products and carry out a major marketing program—the corporation did manage to create and introduce one new product and expand its program on the use of microcomputers. In addition, use of the exchange, which began slowly in fiscal year 1981—probably as a result of a change in the administration following the November election—gradually increased during the year and by year’s end had exceeded management’s projection for user income in FY81.
Part of the problem in delayed use of the exchange may have stemmed from the confusion among users as to whether the merger of sste with ntIs in the poc had or had not taken place, since numerous references to the federalization of sste with nr1s—to be effective October 1, 1981—had appeared in the literature, and it was only subsequently that many users became aware that the exchange was still operating as a nonprofit corporation. Whatever the explanation, many users have expressed the desire to see the exchange continue independent of nt1s, since they felt the change might affect the quality of the service they now receive from the exchange.
With regard to the new product that was introduced this year, a series of administrataive indexes were offered with each individual custom-search or research information package prepared by ssIE. These indexes consisted of alphabetical entries of all documents included in a search by performing and supporting organization, investigators’ names, and geographical location (state and city) of performing organizations. Although the indexes necessitate adding an extra $15 charge to each search, they provide a most useful way to maximize use of the information provided and their convenience to the user should more than offset the slight additional cost. The volume of requests for this service has increased steadily since its inception in early 1981. The exchange is also exploring the possibilities for adding a subject index as well but this becomes a much more difficult problem. During FY81, ssiz has also begun to explore the development of research information packages geared to specific types of research and/or clientele such as instrument and pharmaceutical companies. The creation of information packages geared
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. / 333

<<<Page: 349>>>

more to referral use—rather than a general awareness of research on a given topic—is also being investigated, and potential interest and commitments from certain industrial sector users are currently being explored.
The sste Advisory Council, following an extensive review of the exchange’s activities, reemphasized the importance of continuing the development of new products and an expanding the marketing program if the exchange is to ever move more fully towards total cost recovery; that is, all operating expenses of the exchange to be paid by the user community. The council reaffirmed what sstE already knew: that the single greatest barrier to increasing user revenues was potential users’ lack of awareness about the exchange, and that only through an expanded marketing program could user awareness and, ultimately, use be increased.
Although the exchange has shown consistent increases in user income for most years, increases have been tied directly to direct-mail marketing and personal presentations to potential users, which clearly indicates that it takes money (for such marketing) to make money (user revenues). Sste’s problem in FY81, as in earlier years, was having sufficient money to spend on marketing at the beginning of a year; i.e., any kind of carry-over profit that is available in excess of that needed just for routine operating costs. The exchange has proposed to oms that reductions in appropriated funds should not be made until sufficient funds have been accumulated in excess of those needed to expand marketing, improve the system internally, and develop new products—all of which will serve to reduce over-all operating cost and at the same time increase user revenues without the need to raise prices to users substantially.
Although there has been an increase in use of the exchange’s on-line data through three commercial vendors, the fact is, it seems unlikely that this type of use can ever replace the many other products and services that ss1e now provides. The exchange has continued to add new catalogs to those it has been preparing over the past several years. An essential part of these catalogs, or directories of on-going research, are the subject indexes, which can be created from the indexing now done by the sste staff. A shift away from some form of hierarchical indexing to simple key words, as nTIs has proposed, could affect the quality of the catalog subject indexes as they are now prepared, albeit such an approach could save money
334 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 350>>>

and reduce input costs. In an effort to reduce input costs, SSIE has begun to look at alternative ways of modifying its present indexing procedures, which are more detailed than necessary given the present state of computer technology. In doing so, sstz hopes to preserve the hierarchical structure which it believes is a most valuable asset in retrieval and catalog indexing.
In summary, the exchange has continued to provide a spectrum of old and new products and services to the research and development community, ranging from individual searches on current research, up to special training and service using microcomputers for the processing of information at the federal agency level.
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. / 335

<<<Page: 351>>>

Ropin Reviscoversy Stctions 5 THROUGH Io
The National Gallery of Art’s Rodin Rediscovered, largest exhibition ever of Rodin’s works—400 of them, in bronze, plaster, marble, terra-cotta, and other media, plus drawings and photographs—was installed on all four levels of the East Building.

<<<Page: 352>>>

Smithsonian Year *« 1981
Tue Nationat GALLERY oF ArT (NGA), although formally established as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and separately administered organization. It is governed by its own board of trustees, the ex officio members being the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Of the five general trustees, Paul Mellon continued to serve as chairman of the board, with John R. Stevenson and Carlisle H. Humelsine as president and vice president, respectively. Also continuing on the board were Dr. Franklin D. Murphy and Ruth Carter Johnson.
During fiscal year 1981, the number of visitors entering both of the gallery buildings totaled 6,734,000, a new attendance record and the fourth successive record since the opening of the East Building in 1978.
The year was an especially busy one for the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts, which opened during fiscal year 1980. Nineteen scholars were in residence for varying periods during the year. L. D. Ettlinger, Kress Professor for the academic year 1980— 1981, came to the center from the University of California at Berkeley, where he has been professor of art history since 1970. Washington area art historians were invited to the center for twenty-two meetings, including: ten colloquia in which papers were presented by the senior fellows; two evening lectures presented by Konrad Oberhuber, of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University, and Professor Ettlinger; two round-table seminars that dealt with meth-

<<<Page: 353>>>

ods of art historical inquiry; and three symposia in which scholars from the United States and abroad participated. The first symposium was on Art and Architecture in the Late Fourth Century and Hellenistic Period in Macedonia and the Rest of Greece, in connection with The Search for Alexander exhibition; the second was on The Transfiguration, by Raphael in the Vatican; and the third was on the exhibition, Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks.
Two paintings were added to the nGa’s flourishing collection of twentieth-centry art. Head of a Catalan Peasant, painted by Joan Miro in 1924, is the most experimental work in a series of subjects inspired by the area of Spain in which the artist was born and has lived the greater part of his life. Sound, by Kenneth Noland, a major color field artist, is an early painting from a series in which color is placed in horizontal bands.
Important additions to the gallery’s sculpture collection were ten bronze and wax twentieth-century French works, a rare sixteenthcentury South Netherlandish plaquette entitled Allegory of Charity, and the third in a series of bronze birds by Constantin Brancusi entitled Maiastra, subtitled Bird Before It Flew.
Among the most important gifts of graphic works were: a major archive of contemporary American prints published by Gemini G.E.L., a major American workshop and publisher, and a promise of future gifts that will eventually total more than a thousand works; and the bequest of 1500 prints, drawings, and illustrated books from Lessing J. Rosenwald, who died last year. Included in this bequest were an Avercamp watercolor of a landscape, two large pastel counterproofs by Cassatt and Renoir, a bound volume of Durer’s three great woodcut series, Delacroix’s sixteen lithographs illustrating Hamlet, and a serene Morandi still-life etching.
Other important gifts to the graphics collection were: three hundred thirty photographs by Alfred Stieglitz of Georgia O’Keeffe, a sensitive two-decade portrait survey which completes the Gallery’s “key” set of sixteen hundred works by this photographer; a rare seventeenth-century illustrated Ovid’s volume of poetry; Ellsworth Kelly’s series of twenty-three Colored Paper Images; two Piranesi prints, a first state of The Round Tower, from the Carceri series, and one of two surviving impressions of Temple of Neptune at Paestum; three large Boucher drawings; and two cubist Picasso drawings.
338 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 354>>>

Purchases for the graphics collections included a unique artist's proof of Picasso’s Circus Family, which was used as a study for a painting discovered by X-ray under the gallery’s Family of Saltimbanques; a 1545 etching on blue paper of a landscape by Hirschvogel, the only known artistic use of manufactured blue paper north of the Alps before 1595; a unique proof of Piranesi’s The Arch of Titus; one of the half-dozen finest drawings by Castiglione entitled Alexander at the Tomb of Cyrus; an elegant Buytewech figure drawing which, added to previous holdings, makes the finest representation of this artist outside Europe; and a drawing by Jacob van Ruisdael of Old Trees along a Bank, which evokes the powerful mood of nature so characteristic of this seventeenth-century Dutch artist’s work.
The eleven temporary exhibitions offered during the year drew from Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the United States and covered the period from the fourth century B.c. to the twentieth century after Christ. The dazzling gold, silver, and gilded objects discovered in 1977 at Vergina—in a fourth-century-s.c. royal tomb thought to be that of Philip of Macedon, the father of Alexander the Great—inspired the exhibition, The Search for Alexander. Gods, Saints and Heroes, an exhibition of Dutch history painting (scenes drawn from the Bible, allegory, and mythology) by such seventeenth-century masters as Rembrandt, Vermeer, and Steen, included large-scale works from the council chambers of Dutch town halls. The largest exhibition ever mounted of the work of Rodin—four hundred works in bronze, plaster, marble, terra-cotta, and other media, plus drawings and photographs—was exhibited on every level of the East Building. The twenty-one-foot, eight-ton bronze cast of the Gates of Hell was installed so that it could be viewed from above as well as at ground level.
Four exhibitions of works on paper included: two sixteenthcentury artists, the Italian architect, Palladio—whose four hundredth birthday was celebrated with an exhibition of one hundred ten original designs for architectural projects and reconstructions and preparatory sketches for four books on architecture—and Hans Baldung Grien, a German artist whose work is seldom seen in this country; seventeenth-, eighteenth-, and nineteenth-century French master drawings borrowed from the Rouen Museum; and a survey drawn from the gallery’s collection of the major schools and move-
National Gallery of Art / 339

<<<Page: 355>>>

ments of American graphic art from 1940 to 1980, a crucial period of maturity and world-wide leadership. Four smaller exhibitions presented examples of Kongo funerary art, connections between the natural and spiritual worlds of Central Africa; a study of the relationship of Kandinsky’s “Improvisations” series to thematic abstraction in modern art; oil sketches by George Catlin, the American painter of nineteenth-century American Indian life; and a group of thirty-five paintings, drawings, prints, and sculptures by Picasso and earlier artists on the circus theme, an exhibition inspired by the discovery of the lost Picasso Circus Family.
The nca made loans to thirty-eight exhibitions at forty-eight American institutions and to sixteen exhibitions at nineteen museums in foreign countries. Included were a total of eighty paintings, twenty-seven sculptures, and 193 works of graphic art.
The Education Department prepared interpretive material for six of the temporary exhibitions. Attendance at the special tours, lectures, and films—as well as at the regularly scheduled tours and talks relating to the gallery’s collections, tours conducted by volunteer docents for area school children and foreign visitors, and auditorium lectures delivered by staff docents and invited scholars— totaled 161,073. A number of distinguished scholars lectured during the year, among them: John Harris, British architectural historian and curator of drawings at the British Architectural Library, who delivered the A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts on ‘Palladian Architecture in England, 1615-1760”; L. D. Ettlinger, the Kress Professor for 1980-1981; Manolis Andronikos, professor of archaeology at the University of Thessalonike, Greece; Rodin scholar Albert Elsen, professor of art history at Stanford University; Simon H. Levie, director general of the Rijksmuseum; Cecil Gould, former keeper and deputy director of the National Gallery in London; and John Rewald. During one week in August, a survey revealed that visitors from forty-nine states and sixty foreign countries requested information of the desk-docents.
During the year, the programs developed and distributed by the gallery’s Department of Extension Programs reached an estimated audience of over twenty-six million, more than three times the audience reached during the previous year. This figure reflects a substantial increase in television broadcasts by pss stations, non-profit cable, educational, and community stations, and networks in thirty-
340 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 356>>>

nine states. Forty new agencies joined the long-term Regional Extended Loan system resulting in a thirty percent increase in showings and a forty percent rise in the audience reached by individual bookings of programs. Extension programs were shown in fortythree foreign countries and nineteen military installations abroad. The film Picasso—The Saltimbanques, developed and produced by the department, won a 1981 Cine Golden Eagle award and the Houston International Film Festival Gold Medal.
Renovation continued in the West Building. New paper and sculpture conservation and analytical laboratories were put into operation, and a new sales area opened in the space once occupied by the West Building’s auditorium. Construction was begun on new sculpture and graphics galleries and a dining facility on the ground floor.
National Gallery of Art / 341

<<<Page: 357>>>

Smithsonian Year * 1981 CHRONOLOGY
The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the fiscal year. No attempt has been made to make this a complete compilation of Smithsonian activities.
October
Outreach: The Collaborative Education Outreach Program, jointly developed by the National Museum of African Art, the Museum of Natural History, and the National Zoo, began training personnel to take programs to elderly, handicapped, and institutionalized persons.
New Facility: The maintenance and shop building at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies was completed and occupied.
Seminars: The Joseph Henry Papers sponsored the Nineteenth-Century Seminar for the fifteenth consecutive year.
October 3-8
Special Event: Traditional crafts of Oregon were demonstrated in conjunction with the opening at Renwick Gallery of the exhibition Webfoots and Bunchgrassers: Folk Art of the Oregon Country. The demonstrations were organized by the Office of Folklife Programs.
October 8-13
Special Event: The fourteenth annual ‘Festival of American Folklife” was held on the National Mall with participants from around the country highlighting the folk traditions of Finnish, Caribbean, and Southeast Asian Americans.
October 8—December 3
Study: The Resident Associate Program presented a course on “The Architecture of The American House,” featuring distinguished architects and critics including Charles Moore, Robert A. M. Stern, Bruce Goff, and Hugh Newell Jacobsen.
October 14 Name Changes: President Carter signed the bill changing the name of the National Collection of Fine Arts to the National Museum of American Art and
the National Museum of History and Technology to the National Museum of American History.

<<<Page: 358>>>

October 14
Symposium: A panel composed of women and minorities in the fields of aviation and space participated in “Heritage Night,” sponsored by the National Air and Space Museum.
October 15
Exhibition: The world’s first living coral reef exhibition opened at the Museum of Natural History.
October 16
Exhibition: Benjamin West and His American Students opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
October 20
Special Event: The first address in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries Lecture Series was presented by Charles Goldstein of the Lister Hill National Center, National Library of Medicine, on video-disc storage techniques.
October 21
Seminar: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory funded two lectures for a seminar at the Smithsonian on Organic Analysis in the Arts. Featured were Dr. John Mills from the Research Laboratory of the National Gallery in England and Dr. Curt Beck of Vassar College, New York.
October 21
Films: First in a three-part series, ‘Cities in China,” which included the films Xian, Suzhou, and Beijing by filmmakers Sue Yung Li and Shirley Sun. The series was sponsored by the Resident Associate Program.
October 22
Special Event: A symposium entitled “Presidential Biography’”’ was conducted at the National Portrait Gallery.
October 31
Special Event: “An Evening with Alfred Eisenstaedt” featured reminiscences by the noted photographer about his early work and recent experiences in Germany and his career at Life magazine.
November
Milestone: The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies was nominated by the State of Maryland to the U.S. Department of Commerce for designation as a National Estuarine Sanctuary.
Series: Professor Berlings Kaunda, University of Malawi and a Fulbright Exchange Program Fellow at the National Museum of African Art, presented a series of lectures and workshops on the arts of East and Southern Africa.
Series: The National Museum of Natural History, in cooperation with the Division of Performing Arts, inaugurated “Natural History on Stage,” a fourpart series of family audience dance, music, theater, and craft programs relating to the museum exhibits.
November 5
Special Event: The 1980-81 “Frank Nelson Doubleday Lecture/Performance Series” at the Museum of American History opened with an evening with Sarah Vaughan, one of the country’s leading jazz performers, and Gunther Schuller, contemporary composer, conductor, and author.
Chronology / 343

<<<Page: 359>>>

November 5
Series: “Prediction and Proof: The Role of Theory and Observation in Astronomy,” an eight-part lecture series for the general public, was presented in cooperation with the Boston Museum of Science-Hayden Planetarium. The lectures will be published by the MIT Press.
November 7
Exhibition: American Porcelain: New Expressions in an Ancient Art opened at the Renwick Gallery with subsequent public programs, including craft demonstrations, lectures, and films.
November 10
Study: Allan Cook, Fred Franklin, and Guiseppe Colombo, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, participated on the Imaging Team observing Saturn during the first Voyager mission. Atomic clocks developed by sao’s Robert Vessot and his colleagues are used as the precise timing standards in the deep space tracking of the Voyager.
November 12
Special Event: Live video coverage, special lectures, and extended hours were part of “An Evening with the Planets’ at the National Air and Space Museum to mark the encounter of the Voyager I spacecraft with the planet Saturn.
November 13
Acquisition: Charles Willson Peale’s Mrs. James Smith and Grandson was accessioned by the National Museum of American Art, a partial purchase and a partial gift from Mr. and Mrs. Wilson Levering Smith, in whose family the painting had remained for generations.
November 17
Symposium: Panelists from West Germany and the United States compared the German cultural scene of the Weimar Republic and early years of the Nazi regime with those of post-World War II Germany. The program was held in conjunction with the Eisenstaedt: Germany exhibition at the National Museum of American Art.
November 20
Exhibition: The Avant-Garde in Russia, 1910-1930: New Perspectives opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden—an exhibition of more than 450 objects illuminating Russian visual arts in the period of the Soviet Revolution.
November 21 Special Event: A concert version of Victor Herbert’s operetta Naughty Mari-
etta opened the American Musical Theater Series of the Division of Performing Arts. The operetta was recorded for release in 1982.
November 24
Special Event: Author James Michener and photographers Roland and Sabrina Michaud discussed their experiences in Afghanistan in a special evening sponsored by the Resident Associate Program.
November 25
Awards: The films Mirrors on the Universe: The MMT Story and Reunions: Memories of an American Experience, both produced by the Office of Telecommunications, won silver awards at the Thirteenth Annual Festival of the Americas.
344 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 360>>>

November 28
Acquisitions: The National Museum of American Art accessioned 103 paintings, sculptures, and works on paper, including those by Jim Dine, Sam Francis, Grace Hartigan, Ed McGowin, and Louise Nevelson, given by Mr. and Mrs. David K. Anderson of Buffalo, N.Y.
December
Publication: A Scientist in American Life: Essays and Lectures of Joseph Henry was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Closing: Accelerating shore erosion forced the closing of the field station at Poplar Island in Chesapeake Bay, a facility of the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies.
December 1
Seminar: “Education for the Office of Citizen: Whose Responsibility?” was organized by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars in cooperation with the National Consortium for Public Policy Education.
December 2
Special Event: The National Portrait Gallery scheduled a reception in honor of the publication The Collected Papers of Charles Willson Peale and His Family, in microfiche edition.
December 6
Children’s Event: Four hours of continuous performance, live music and cartoons were presented by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in the fifth annual “Hirshhorn Holiday: A Celebration for Children,” under the sponsorship of the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.
December 7
Special Event: The Contributing Membership of the National Associate Program sponsored a private viewing of the Search for Alexander exhibition, followed by a reception at the Greek Embassy given by Ambassador and Mrs. Tzounis.
December 9
Agreement: A long-negotiated agreement was signed between Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and the University of Panama, whereby stTRI provides research facilities to the university researchers and receives publication support in Spanish from the University of Panama Press and use of various university facilities.
December 10 Special Event: The Ali Kahn lectured and presented architectural awards in a
program consponsored by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and the fourteenth Centennial of Islam.
December 11
Agreement: The Academy of Sciences (Academia Sinica) of the People’s Republic of China and the Smithsonian Institution signed an agreement to foster joint research and other exchanges in areas of common interest.
December 15
TV Premiere: “A Sense of Discovery,” a film profile of the National Museum of American Art, produced by the Office of Telecommunications, premiered in Washington over the PBS station, WETA-TV.
Chronology / 345

<<<Page: 361>>>

December 17-18
Special Event: The Smithsonian Chamber Players, with the American Boy Choir, performed Handel’s Messiah at the National Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C. The concerts were produced by the Division of Performing Arts in the original style, and were recorded for future release.
December 26
Special Event: Kwanzaa, the seven-day celebration based on African festivals of thanksgiving, was observed at the National Museum of African Art.
December 26-31
Holiday Celebration: Christmas, Hanukkah, and New Year traditions were represented in a collection of music, crafts, drama, and cooking at the National Museum of American History, produced by the Division of Performing Arts.
December 27-28
Special Event: A colloquium entitled “The Muses Flee Hitler II. Cultural Adaptation in Worldwide Perspective” was presented by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars, continuing the Einstein Centennial observance.
January
Slide Show Release: “Preservation and Urban Revitalization,” documenting the social and economic benefits of historic preservation, was released by the Office of Museum Programs.
January 4
Broadcast: “Radio Smithsonian,” produced by the Office of Telecommunications, transferred broadcast to the National Public Radio satellite system.
January 10
Broadcast: “Smithsonian Galaxy,” 2%2 minute radio features produced by the Office of Telecommunications, reached the 200 mark for stations broadcasting the series.
January 15
The annual “Green Valley Lectures on Astronomy” was presented by staff members of the Mt. Hopkins Observatory.
January 16-19
Inaugural Concerts: Four days of concerts were presented in seven of the Smithsonian museums to mark the presidential inauguration. Activities were arranged by the Office of American Folklore and the Division of Performing Arts in cooperation with the Presidential Inaugural Committee 1981 and with the help of a grant from the Jimmy Carter Inaugural Trust.
January 23-25
Victory Over the Sun, a 1913 Cubo-Futurist opera, was presented at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program in conjunction with The Avant-Garde in Russia exhibition.
January 28
Lecture: James A. Van Allen, discoverer of the Van Allen Radiation Belts and a 1981 Regents Fellow, was the National Air and Space Museum’s fourth annual Wernher von Braun lecturer.
346 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 362>>>

February
Special Event: Inaugural event of the International Year of Disabled Persons, was cosponsored by the U.S. Council for the International Year and the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.
Publication: The pilot issue of Biological Conservation Newsletter was produced by the Office of Biological Conservation to be circulated monthly to the scientific and conservation community.
Performance: Kids on the Block, a presentation marking the International Year of Disabled Persons, was presented for Smithsonian staff by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.
Special Program: “Intern ‘81,’ the seventh annual program for high school students, was held.
February 1
Special Event: Handel Concerti Grossi, Opus 3, inaugural album of the Smithsonian Chamber Players, was introduced at a concert and reception at the Museum of American History, sponsored by the Contributing Membership of the National Associate Program.
February 4
Exhibition: Anna J. Cooper: A Voice from the South, a major exhibit on a former slave who achieved success as an educator and scholar, opened at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.
February 6-8
Concerts/Conferences: The legacy of pioneer gospel composer, Roberta Martin, and her historic vocal ensemble, The Roberta Martin Singers, was the subject of a weekend of activities sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts, marking Black History Month.
February 9
Milestone: Work began on the Institution’s new Museum Support Center at Silver Hill, Maryland, for collections storage space. The center is scheduled to open in 1983.
February 12
Exhibition: Directions 1981, including more than fifty works by sixteen contemporary artists, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
February 20
Award: “Radio Smithsonian,” produced by the Office of Telecommunications, received the Clarion award for ‘Voices of the Civil Rights Movement,” from Women in Communications, Inc.
February 20
Special Event: The Renwick Waltz, annual ball of the Contributing Membership, National Associate Program, was held in the Renwick Gallery’s Grand Salon with the Ambassador of Great Britain and Lady Henderson as honorary sponsors.
February 24
Award: “Radio Smithsonian” was honored with an award for excellence for its program on the Coral Reef exhibition, by the American Association of University Women’s Metropolitan Area Mass Media Committee.
Chronology / 347

<<<Page: 363>>>

February 25
Lecture: “Saturn—Jewel of the Heavens,” a lecture on Saturn and its system of moons, was presented by National Air and Space Museum geologist Robert Wolfe. The lecture was subsequently repeated twice by popular demand.
March
Publication: First results of the joint Harvard/Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Redshift survey were published. The survey was designed to measure the weight of clusters of galaxies.
Lecture Series: Stanley Mohler presented a program on Wiley Post, the first in a series marking the International Year of Disabled Persons. Subsequent lectures were presented in April, May, and June on Washington Roebling, Harriet Tubman, and Theodore Roosevelt, by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.
Milestone: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Total System Plan, detailing history, problems, and opportunities on automation of all aspects of the Libraries, was launched as a major study/planning exercise. The full system will be in place in 1984.
Research: A compilation of names of 8,000 candidate endangered, vulnerable and rare plant species for Middle America (Mexico and Central America) was produced by the Office of Biological Conservation and the Threatened Plants Committee of the IUCN, the first phase of a three-year project.
March 1
Concert: Solo Jazz Piano Concert, featuring Marian McPartland, Hank Jones, and Stanley Cowell, was performed at the Kennedy Center for Performing Arts, cosponsored by the Smithsonian Division of Performing Arts.
March 2
Seminar: Human and animal language was discussed by Sir John Eccles, F.R.S. and Nobel Laureate in medicine and physiology, in a program presented by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars.
March 5
Exhibition: Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art, organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, opened at the Amon Carter Museum in Fort Worth, Texas.
March 6
Giant Panda Breeding: Chia-Chia, male giant panda from the London Zoological Society, arrived at the National Zoological Park for a three-month stay.
March 13
Lecture: Chemist Harold Westley presented a paper, “Emission Spectroscopy with the Laser Microprobe,” in a Museum Laboratory at the Pittsburgh Conference and Exposition on Analytical Chemistry and Applied Spectroscopy.
March 15
Discovery: Stellar masers and the measurement of the proper motion of these sources using VLBI techniques was reported by a group led by James Moran, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
348 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 364>>>

March 16
Symposium: The keynote address by Mrs. Anwar Sadat, wife of the Egyptian president, opened the international symposium “Egypt Today,” cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program, the National Endowments, and private and corporate funding. The symposium incorporated a related exhibition on the art of Mahmoud Moukhtar at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and other events, including an exhibition, Traditional Costumes and Jewelry of Egypt, at the National Museum of African Art.
March 22-27
Seminar: “The New Eden: American Painting in the 19th Century” was the subject of a week-long seminar sponsored by the Selected Studies Program, National Associate Program.
March 23-24
Symposium: “Space Science Comes of Age,” a two-day program at the National Air and Space Museum, brought together eleven leading scientists and historians to discuss the past three decades of space science research. A book was also published of the papers presented.
March 23-27
Lecture Series: A five-day course, “Teaching in Conservation Science,” was presented at ICCROM, Rome, by Robert M. Organ, Director of Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
March 29-April 3
Seminar: “World War II Aviation: A Closer Look” was the topic of a five-day program presented by the aeronautical staff of the National Air and Space Museum and guest experts, sponsored by the Selected Studies Program, National Associate Program.
March 31
Series: “Evenings at Barney Studio House,” a series of monthly programs reminiscent of those given by Alice Pike Barney at the turn of the century, was inaugurated with a program of poetry and Elizabethan lute music.
April
Research: John F. Eisenberg, John Seidensticker, and Ross Simons spent three weeks in China negotiating and selecting a site for a long-term research project on the ecology of an area in the Sichuan mountains, with emphasis on the giant panda.
April 1 Acquisition: A rare, 1701 Servais violoncello by Antonio Stradivari was do-
nated to the National Museum of American History’s Division of Musical Instruments by Charlotte V. Bergen.
April 5-10 Seminar: “The Quest for Beauty,” fourth seminar in the series “High School Scholars at the Smithsonian,” was sponsored by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars.
April 10
Special Event: A celebration marking the twenty-five-year association of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Harvard College Observatory was held in Cambridge.
Chronology / 349

<<<Page: 365>>>

April 10 Award: A CINE Golden Eagle award was presented for A Sense of Discovery, a film on the Museum of American Art produced by the Office of Telecommunications. The award was given by the Council on International Nontheatrical Events and certified the film to represent the United States in international film festivals.
April 14 Exhibition: Jefferson and Science, an exhibition highlighting the scientific pursuits of Thomas Jefferson, opened at the National Museum of American History.
April 15 Grant Awards: The Office of Fellowships and Grants designated the 1980-81 fellowship recipients.
April 21 Exhibition: The new Great Ape House at the National Zoo opened to the public.
April 23
Workshop: “Damage to Collection Objects Caused by Photography,” a workshop for Smithsonian personnel, was conducted by Robert M. Organ, Director, Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
April 25 The last hydrazine propellant on board the Einstein satellite was expended, and the space observatory’s astronomical life ended after twenty-nine months
of highly successful operations. Data analysis will continue for approximately two years.
April 26
Screening: Midwest-area director of the Archives of American Art, Dennie Barrie, presented selections from the Archives’ new videotaped conservations with American artists at the Kansas City Art Institute, as part of the National Associates Regional Events Series.
April 26
Publication: The Smithsonian Collection of Classic Country Music was published by the Division of Performing Arts. The eight-record anthology covers more than fifty years of recorded country music.
April 27 Appointment: Following the death of Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Museum
of American Art Director for eleven years, Harry Lowe, Assistant Director of the museum, was designated Acting Director.
Special Event: A major crafts fair, “Crafts in the Carnegie Mansion,” was held during two weekends in May at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York.
Research: Scientists at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies initated a new long-term study of the succession of plant and animal communities on newly abandoned agricultural land.
Publication: Smithsonian Institution Libraries Catalogue, a computer-output microfiche product, was distributed. The traditional card catalogues were closed throughout the Institution Libraries system.
350 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 366>>>

May-Continued
Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received an Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund grant for computerization of serial records and a grant from the Smithsonian Institution Women’s Committee for the restoration and conservation of trade catalogues pertaining to the clothing industry.
Symposium: Roy Bryce-Laporte of the Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies organized and chaired two sessions on “The Haitian Immigrants, Refugees and Boat People” and “The Presence of the New Caribbean Immigrants” at the Caribbean Studies Association meetings in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands.
New Program: A new Smithsonian Institution internal training workshop was conducted in “Conservation Photography,” by the Office of Museum Programs.
Appointment: The Director, Office of Biological Conservation, was elected Chairman of the African Biosciences Network (affiliated with the International Biosciences of ICSU-UNESCO), which subsequently resulted in the production of a report, in English and French, that is unprecedented in the scope of its coverage of the state of biology in Africa.
May 1
Visit: His Royal Highness Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, visited the National Air and Space Museum, accompanied by Secretary S. Dillon Ripley, Assistant Secretary David Challinor, and Nasm Assistant Director Walter J. Boyne.
May 4
Dedication/ Presentation: The National Air and Space Museum theater was renamed the Samuel! Pierpont Langley Theater, honoring the third secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. In conjunction with the dedication, Charles Stark Draper and Robert T. Jones were each presented with the Langley Medal for meritorious investigation in the field of aerospace science.
May 11
Dedication: A sculpture of the kouprey by Jeanne Gevaert was dedicated to Harold Coolidge, the first scientist to identify this animal as a new subspecies in 1937. The sculpture is located at the entrance to the National Zoo’s Education/ Administration Building.
May 12
Performance: Suad Raga, Egyptian dancer, performed at the National Museum of African Art in connection with ‘Egypt Today,” a series of activities cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program.
May 14
Symposium: An all-day symposium, “Conservation: Keeping America’s Neighborhood Together,” was presented by preservationists, government leaders, private businessmen, and neighborhood conservationists, cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program.
May 15
Exhibition: The first international exhibition of Mamluk era art, Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks, opened at the National Museum of Natural History, organized by Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, with guest curator Dr. Esin Atil of the reer Gallery.
Chronology / 351

<<<Page: 367>>>

May 18
Award: A 1981 AIA Medal from the American Institute of Architects was presented to the Resident Associate Program for its lecture series on architecture.
May 21
The Conservation Analytica] Laboratory sponsored a round table discussion on “Future Directions in Archeometry” at the International Archeometry Symposium at Brookhaven National Laboratory. A report of these discussions will be available in conjunction with the development of the Smithsonian archeometry program.
May 29
Outreach: A 30-second public service announcement, “Think Smithsonian,” was produced by the Office of Public Affairs to bring the Institution’s many varied activities to the attention of television audiences. It was distributed to 100 stations within 500 miles of Washington and was broadcast by approximately 75 percent of those stations.
June
Acquisition: The famous C. P. Alexander Collection of crane flies was acquired by the National Museum of Natural History. This collection, probably in excess of 6,000 specimens, is of enormous historical interest and singly contains the largest accumulation of type specimens ever acquired by the museum’s Department of Entomology.
Publication: Good Show! A Practical Guide for Temporary Exhibitions, the first such book on installing temporary exhibitions, was published by the Traveling Exhibition Service.
Award: The American Mammalogy Society presented its J. Hart Merriam Award to John F. Eisenberg of the National Zoo for outstanding contributions to mammalogy.
Special Event: The Trellis, a benefit sales shop, was opened in conjunction with the exhibition Gardens of Delight at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Grant: The education staff of the Chesapeake Bay Center received a grant to study ways of improving science learning in out-of-door school environments.
New Program: The Office of Fellowships and Grants initiated internships and faculty fellowships directed towards historically black colleges and minorities from other institutions.
June 4
Exhibition: Kenneth Snelson, the artist’s first American retrospective of sixtyfour works, including several monumental pieces constructed on the museum’s plaza, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
June 4
Exhibition: Condor sculptures by Erwin Hauer were exhibited in the Education/ Administration Building of the National Zoo.
June 5
Acquisition: The Morgan Collection, a collection of nineteenth-century American printing type and woodcuts, was acquired by the National Museum of American History through a grant from the Regents Fund.
352 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 368>>>

June 5
New Procedure: A special system of labels for the hearing impaired was installed in the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, marking the first use of such labels with a major exhibition in a Smithsonian museum.
June 5
Seminar: A lecture on neutron-induced autoradiography of oil paintings was presented at the National Bureau of Standards by Dr. Ed Sayre, Brookhaven National Laboratory. The program was funded by the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
June 6
Award: An EMMY for excellence in cinematography was presented by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, Washington Chapter, honoring A Sense of Discovery, the film on the National Museum of American Art produced by the Office of Telecommunications.
June 6
Special Event: “Children’s Day: Rhythm in Red, White and Blues,” an annual arts festival, was held at the National Museum of American Art. It included a puppet show, jazz music, dance, and crafts.
June 7
Performance: The Guyana Steel Chronicle Atlantic Symphony Orchestra performed at the National Museum of African Art.
June 11
Special Event: “Night of a Thousand Flowers,” a gala benefit ball, was held in the mansion and garden of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
June 12 New Facility: A “Mini-Visitor’s Center,” complete with a historical astronomy
exhibit, opened at the Amado base camp of the Mt. Hopkins Observatory, with support from the Office of Public Service.
June 12
Symposium: The first major scientific conference on Therapsids, the mammallike reptiles that gave rise to mammals 200 million years ago, was sponsored by the National Museum of Natural History and the National Institute of Mental Health.
June 16
Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt participated in “Museum Mile,” the third annual street festival and celebration by ten of New York City’s cultural institutions located on Upper Fifth Avenue.
June 16
New Directions: A planning committee was established to begin development of long-range plans for the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.
June 17
Seminar: “Nutrition: Opportunities for Government Cooperation with the Independent Sector” was organized in cooperation with the National Institute
of Child Health and Human Development by the Office of Symposia and Seminars.
June 18
Special Event: An honors ceremony was held for 1980-81 Smithsonian fellows.
Chronology / 353

<<<Page: 369>>>

June 22
Exhibition: Champions of American Sport opened at the National Portrait Gallery, preceded by a White House reception with remarks by President Reagan.
June 22
Outreach: The first Smithsonian Spanish-language version of a public service announcement on the Institution’s exhibitions was produced for television by the Office of Public Affairs with a grant from the Women’s Committee. Though distributed to selected stations, the PSA was also telecast nationally through the Spanish International Network and the satellite transmission of WTBS in Atlanta.
June 22-26
Workshop: The Smithsonian Archives sponsored a five-day workshop for museum archivists.
June 24
Special Event: Opening day of the fifteenth annual “Festival of American Folklife,” featuring more than 200 participants from 30 states. Evening concerts and the exhibition and sale of specially commissioned traditional southeastern crafts were highlights. The festival was produced by the Iffice of Folklife Programs and returned this year to a two-week summer format.
June 26-28
Theme Weekend: “The Family Sampler,” the first weekend program planned especially for Associates and their children, was sponsored by the Associates Travel Program.
July Publication: Volume four of The Papers of Joseph Henry was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Series: “International Day,” one of the new special monthly programs for Office of Museum Programs interns, featured interns from several different countries speaking of their museums and their countries.
Location Change: Technology and Culture, the international quarterly of the Society for the History of Technology, moved its editorial offices to the National Museum of American History, with Robert C. Post as editor-in-chief and Brooke Hindle as chief of the Editorial Advisory Board.
Research: A paleo-Indian site in Lamb Springs, Colorado, was excavated by Dr. Dennis Stanford, National Museum of Natural History archaeologist, and three scientists from China, in the opening phase of a five-year Chinese/ American New World Human Origins Program.
Publication: Volcanoes of the World, the most comprehensive reference work on global volcanism, was produced after a ten-year effort by staff members of the National Museum of Natural History, Department of Mineral Sciences.
Discovery: Dr. Meredith Jones, National Museum of Natural History, classified as a new family of the animal kingdom the extraordinary worms found around hot springs on the floor of the Pacific Ocean. Dr. Jones, along with other scientists, reported in Science on the worm’s unique strategy for obtaining food and energy.
Workshops: The National Teacher Workshops began, sponsored by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.
354 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 370>>>

July—Continued
New Installation: The new water system of the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies was completed and placed in operation.
July 1
Exhibition: Jet Aviation, a major new gallery devoted to the first forty years of the jet age, opened at the National Air and Space Museum.
July 1
Milestone: Fifth anniversary of the National Air and Space Museum was celebrated with a public birthday party, extended evening hours, free concerts, and workshops.
July 1
Seminar: “A Sense of Place: The Organization of the Garifuna Community in Honduras and New York” was sponsored by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars.
July 3-5
Celebration: A July Fourth celebration combined music, dance, theater, and demonstrations, documenting American traditions and illuminating the exhibits at the National Museum of American History. The celebration was produced by the Division of Performing Arts in collaboration with the museum staff.
July 15
Milestone: The new Thoms M. Evans Gallery was inaugurated at the National Museum of Natural History, with the opening of the major exhibition 5,000 Years of Korean Art.
July 16
Exhibition and Film/Concert Series: ‘Images of Labor,” commemorating the one-hundredth anniversary of the founding of the American Federation of Labor, opened at the National Museum of American History, accompanied by a series of films and concerts.
July 16
Special Event: American artist Larry Rivers discussed his life and work in a dialogue with Stephen E. Weil, deputy director of the Hishhorn Museum. The evening was sponsored by the Resident Associate Program.
July 16
Exhibition: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s entire collection of Larry Rivers’ paintings, drawings, sculpture, and construction, History of the Russian Revolution from Marx to Mayakovsky, opened at the museum.
July 18
Special Event: Aboriginal artists of Australia discussed their culture and folklore and demonstrated native crafts and music at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. A performance concert followed, cosponsored by the National Capital Parks—East and the Embassy of Australia.
July 21
New Directions: First meeting was held of the planning committee to consider the future of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.
Chronology / 355

<<<Page: 371>>>

July 21
Exhibition: Perfect in Her Place, tracing the struggles and successes of women at work in industrial America, opened at the National Museum of American History.
July 24
Visit: President Reagan visited the National Museum of American Art to view the exhibition George Catlin: The Artist and the American Indian. He was greeted by John Jameson, assistant secretary for administration, Harry Lowe, acting director, and curator William Truettner.
July 28
Expedition: An archaeological/archeometric expedition to Countess of Warwick Sound, Baffin Island, Canada, was conducted by Jacqueline S. Olin and M. James Blackman, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, together with a proton magnetometer survey in conjunction with the search for evidence of smelting by early European explorers in that region.
July 31
Exhibition: Portraits and memorabilia comprised an exhibition entitled We Never Sleep, marking the first fifty years of the Pinkertons.
August
Exhibition: A photographic display of Galapagos undersea life organized by the Office of Biological Conservation was incorporated into the offerings of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service for a three-year tour. The photographs were exhibited at the National Museum of Natural History from June through August.
Agreement: The Office of Biological Conservation was awarded a contract to provide illustrations, which will be utilized in a U.S. identification manual for customs inspectors at ports of entry, of ten plant species most frequently found in international trade.
Collection Management: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries completed its first major policy statement on management of its collections including issues such as security, conservation, and an extensive collection profile.
August 10
Research: A new telescope coalignment system for the Multiple Mirror Telescope was completed through the collaborative efforts of Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and University of Arizona engineers and computer programmers.
August 31
Joseph H. Hirshhorn, financier, philanthropist, and donor of his major contemporary art collection to the Smithsonian Institution, died.
September
Outreach: On the occasion of its second anniversary, the Smithsonian News Service introduced color artwork to illustrate its feature stories which are distributed to more than 1,400 newspapers nationwide and abroad, with a total circulation of more than 40 million.
Publication: The Mammalian Radiations, by John F. Eisenberg, National Zoo, was published by the University of Chicago Press and has been selected by the natural science book clubs of England and the United States as a special offering to their members.
356 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 372>>>

September—Continued
Award: The American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums presented to the National Zoological Park the Edward H. Bean award for the most notable birth in 1981: the Chinese alligator.
Videotape Release: “Museum Accessibility for the Visually Impaired Visitor,” prepared by the Office of Museum Programs, offers practical techniques in making museum exhibitions more accessible.
Special Event: The fortieth Executive Council meeting of the Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Isles was held at the Smithsonian Institution.
Special Event: New monthly program for Office of Museum Programs interns: “Kuwaiti Museums and Culture,” was presented by intern Fatima Ben Touq.
Research: The Office of Biological Conservation received support from the Educational Outreach Research Program funds to produce an educational text on “Threatened and Endangered Plant Species of the U.S.”
Publication: New editions of Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study and Directory of Fellows, edited by the Office of Fellowships and Grants, were published.
Special Action: The final Environmental Impact Statement, concerning the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies’ designation as a National Estuarine Sanctuary, was completed.
Videotape Release: “Museum Careers,” series of interviews with museum professionals describing their work in museum operations, was released by the Office of Museum Programs.
September 6
Special Event: The Fifth Annual Smithsonian Frisbee Disc Festival, the largest noncompetitive disc event in the world, was held on the Mall sponsored by the National Air and Space Museum.
September 8
Special Event: George T. Nierenberg’s award-winning documentary film, No Maps on My Taps, was shown by the Division of Performing Arts and was followed with a live performance by the film’s legendary stars—Howard (Sandman) Sims, Chuck Green, and Bunny Briggs.
September 10
Special Event: John R. Kinard, director of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, addressed the Anacostia Historical Society, opening a lecture series funded by a grant from the D.C. Council on the Humanities.
September 14
Special Event: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden officially reopened its sculpture garden after renovation to provide access for disabled visitors.
September 15
Exhibition: Out of the Ordinary: Ritual and Domestic Furnishings of Africa opened at the National Museum of African Art.
September 15
Special Event: John Bull, the world’s oldest operable steam locomotive, a part of the National Museum of American History’s collections, was taken outdoors and steamed along the Chessie System tiacks near Georgetown to celebrate the engine’s first run in the United States 150 years ago.
Chronology / 357

<<<Page: 373>>>

September 17
Exhibition: R. B. Kitaj, the first major retrospective of this artist’s work, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
September 18
Exhibition: Cast and Recast: The Sculpture of Frederic Remington, including twenty casts of four of the sculptor’s best-known works, opened at the National Museum of American Art.
September 19
Special Event: A concert of traditional music from the Faroe Islands was held in the auditorium of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, sponsored by the Greater Washington Folklore Society and the Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs.
September 23
Exhibition: Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery, organized jointly by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and the Corcoran Gallery, opened at the Corcoran.
September 24
Special Event: The Contributing Membership, Smithsonian National Associate Program, celebrated the donation, by John H. Phipps, of a collection of nineteenth-cenutry illustrated natural history books, with a reception and a lecture on their importance by Secretary Ripley.
September 25
Exhibition: The John H. Phipps Donation, an exhibition and catalogue of nineteenth-century ornithological works, honored the Smithsonian Institution Libraries donor and James Smithson Society Founder Medal recipient, J. H. Phipps.
September 25-26
Special Event: The James Smithson Society held its annual banquet and presented awards in conjunction with the autumn meeting of the National Board of the Smithsonian Associates.
September 27—October 3
Special Event: The Thirty-sixth Annual Conference of the International Union of Directors of Zoological Gardens was held at the Conservation and Research Center, Front Royal, Virginia, and the National Zoological Park.
358 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 374>>>

Smithsonian Year * 1981
Organization Chart
Members of the Smithsonian Council Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1981
Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1980, through September 30, 1981
National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1981
Academic and Research Training Appointments in Fiscal Year 1981
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1981
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1981
The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1981
Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1981
Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1981
Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1981
page 360
371 374
471 502

<<<Page: 375>>>

Accounting Office Office of Grants and Risk Management Investment Accounting Division Business Management Office Concessions
Mail Order Division Smithsonian Museum Shops
Assistant Secretary for Assistant Secretary for Assistant Secretary for SGIENGES HISTORY AND ART* MUSEUM PROGRAMS* Chesapeake Bay Center for Archives of American Art Conservation Analytical Environmental Studies Cooper-Hewitt Museum Laboratory Fort Pierce Bureau Freer Gallery of Art National Museum Act National Air and Space Museum Hirshhorn Museum and Office of Exhibits Central National Museum of Man Sculpture Garden Office of Horticulture Center for the Study of Man Joseph Henry Papers Office of International National Museum of National Museum of Activities Natural History African Art Office of Museum Programs National Zoological Park National Museum of Office of the Registrar Office of Biological Conservation American Art Smithsonian Archives Office of Fellowships and Grants Renwick Gallery Smithsonian Institution Radiation Biology Laboratory National Museum of Libraries Smithsonian Astrophysical American History Smithsonian Institution Observatory National Portrait Gallery Traveling Exhibition Smithsonian Tropical Research Office of American and Service Institute Folklife Studies
* Secretary’s Executive Committee

<<<Page: 376>>>

| Under Separate Boards of Trustees:
b JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS t
i INTERNATIONAL CENTER
id Cia tac > Cee, eee | SMITHSONIAN | SCIENCE INFORMATION
EXCHANGE, INC. i
Coordinator of PUBLIC INFORMATION*
Office of Congressional Liaison Office of Public Affairs Office of Special Events
Assistant Secretary for PUBLIC SERVICE*
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Division of Performing Arts
International Exchange Service
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Exposition Books
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
Director of MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT*
Development Office
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Assistant Secretary for ADMINISTRATION*
Office of Computer Services Contracts Office Office of Equal Opportunity Office of Facilities Services Office of Design and Construction Office of Plant Services Office of Protection Services Management Analysis Office Office of Personnel Administration Office of Printing and Photographic . Services Office of Programming and Budget Office of Supply Services Travel Services Office

<<<Page: 377>>>

APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1981
Warren E. Burger, The Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor* George H. W. Bush, The Vice President of the United States, ex officio
Henry M. Jackson, Senator from Washington Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah
Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts
David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas
J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia
William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey
William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York*
Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California
A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia*
James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia**
Gordon N. Ray, Frank B. Golley David F. Musto Chairman Stephen Jay Gould Ruth Patrick Dore Ashton Neil Harris David R. Pilbeam Milton W. Brown August Heckscher Vera C. Rubin Frederick H. Burkhardt Nathan I. Huggins Carl E. Schorske William H. Davenport Ada Louise Huxtable Andre Schiffrin Anne d’Harnoncourt Bennetta Jules-Rosette Gunther Schuller Richard M. Dorson George F. Lindsay Barbara W. Tuchman A. Hunter Dupree Peter Marler
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Mr. Alfred Taubman, Chairman Vice President
Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney, Mr. Henry deForest Baldwin, President Treasurer
Mrs. Nancy B. Negley, Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President Secretary
* Member of the Executive Committee. ** Mr. Webb is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
362 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 378>>>

S. Dillon Ripley,
ex officio Charles Blitzer,
ex officio Dr. Irving F. Burton Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz Mrs. Alvin Ferst, Jr. Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn Mr. John Lowell Jones Mrs. Charles Kessler Mr. Irvin A. Levy
Lawrence A. Fleischman
HONORARY TRUSTEES Mr. Harold O. Love
Mr. Howard W. Lipman Mr. Porter A. McCray Mr. Richard Manoogian Mrs. Walter Maynard, Jr. Dr. Abraham Melamed Mrs. William L. Mitchell Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman Mrs. Dana M. Raymond Mr. Frederic A. Sharf Mrs. Louise Talbot Trigg Mr. C. Bagley Wright
Mrs. Edsel B. Ford
Mr. Russell Lynes
E. P. Richardson
Mrs. William L. Richards
Milton Brown, Chairman
John Baur
Anne d’Harnoncourt
John Dobkin
William Gerdts
Lloyd Goodrich
Harley P. Holden, Chairman Winslow Ames Mr. and Mrs. George H. Bumgardner Carl Chiarenza Charles Ferguson Wolfgang M. Freitag Hugh Gourley
Wesley Chamberlin, Chairman
Stanley Andersen
Herschel Chipp
Van Deren Coke
Constance W. Glenn, Chairman
E. Maurice Bloch
Beatrice Farwell
Burton Fredericksen
Eugene Goossen James J. Heslin
John Howat
James Humphry III Bernard Karpel
John A. Kouwenhoven Abram Lerner
Elton W. Hall Patricia Hills Sinclair Hitchings John Kirk
William Lipke Kenworth Moffett Elliott Offner James O’Gorman Stephen Prokopoff
Wanda Corn James Elliott Albert Elsen Bruce Guenther Harvey Jones
Donelson Hoopes Richard Koshalek Susan C. Larsen Earl A. Powell III Moira Roth
Russell Lynes Barbara Novak Clive Phillpot Jules D. Prown
J. T. Rankin William B. Walker
Stephen Riley
Laurence Schmeckebier Theodore Stebbins Richard Teitz
Bryant F. Tolles
Peter Wick
Margaret Craver Withers
Martha Kingsbury George Neubert Don Stover Harvey West
Ian White
Josine Ianco Starrels Maurice Tuchman Robert R. Wark
Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 363

<<<Page: 379>>>

Bernard Mergen, Henry Glassie Marc Pachter
Chairman William Homer Harold F. Pfister Lorraine Brown Charles Hummell Phoebe Stanton David Driskell Harry Lowe John Wilmerding Lois Fink Peter Marzio
Thomas Lawton, Richard Fiske David Challinor,
Chairman Roger Kennedy ex officio David Correll Charles Blitzer, John Eisenberg ex officio
August Heckscher, Karen Johnson Keland Robert Sarnoff Chairman Russell Lynes Marietta Tree Rosemary Corroon Gilbert C. Mauer S. Dillon Ripley,
John K. Davidson Kenneth Miller ex officio Joanne du Pont Amanda Ross Charles Blitzer, Harmon Goldstone Arthur Ross ex officio
Wilcomb E. Washburn, William Fitzhugh Ralph Rinzler Chairman Lloyd Herman Peter Seitel
Roger Abrahams Robert Laughlin Richard Sorenson
Richard Ahlborn Scott Odell Thomas Vennum
Richard Dorson
Mrs. Jackson Burke Norman Y. Mineta Priscilla P. Soucek Kwang-chih Chang John M. Rosenfield John S. Thacher
Marvin Eisenberg Hugh Scott Richard W. Weatherhead Katharine Graham Laurence Sickman
HONORARY ASSOCIATES: Richard Edwards Calvin French
Daniel P. Moynihan, Leigh B. Block Jerome Greene Chairman Anne d’Harnoncourt Olga Hirshhorn Sydney Lewis, Thomas M. Evans Dorothy C. Miller
Vice Chairman
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio Joseph H. Hirshhorn, Trustee Emeritus, died August 31, 1981.
James R. Buckler, Jimmie L. Crowe Carlton Lees Chairman Belva Jensen Robert Read
364 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 380>>>

Edward S. Ayensu James R. Buckler
Frederick Seitz, Chairman Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.
Lee Bronson Beverly W. Carter David Driskell John B. Duncan Carl Freeman
S. I. Hayakawa
Paul Desautels Robert Read
Lee Anna Blick Charles Blitzer
Frances Humphrey Howard
Richard Long
Frank Moss
Milton Ratner
Thomas Schwab
Mary Ripley
S. Dillon Ripley Henry D. Smyth
Roy Sieber
Walter Washington Franklin Williams Charles Blitzer, ex officio S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio
Joseph James Akston Arthur Ashe
James Avery
Ernie Barnes
Saul Bellow
Julian Bond
Rep. John Brademas Dona Bronson Edward W. Brooke Joseph Campbell Rep. John Conyers Ossie Davis
Lula Dawson
Rep. Ronald Dellums Barbaralee Diamonstein Rep. Charles Diggs Ofield Dukes
Joanne duPont Ralph Ellison
John Hope Franklin Buckminster Fuller James Gibson
Dick Gregory
Chaim Gross
Lily Polk Guest Alex Haley George Haley Eliot Halperin Geoffrey Holder Rep. Frank Horton Muriel Humphrey David Lloyd Kreeger Jacob Lawrence Vera List
J. Bruce Llewellyn Mary McFadden Robert McNamara Stanley Marcus Rae Alexander Minter Clarence Mitchell Nancy Negley Mace Neufeld Dorothy Porter Vincent Price Benjamin Quarles Milton Ratner Michael Rea Saunders Redding
John Reinhardt Stellita Renchard Norman B. Robbins Harold Rome Bayard Rustin
Sen. Hugh Scott Stanley Scott
Evelyn Sessler Mabel Smythe Michael Sonnenreich David Stratmon Lynette Taylor
Anne Teabeau Maurice Tempelsman Paul Tishman Sterling Tucker Mike Wallace Barbara Watson
G. Mennen Williams Isabel Wilson
Lester Wunderman Elizabeth Bouey Yates Andrew Young Nicholas Zervas
S. Dillon Ripley, Chairman Albert P. Albrecht
Mrs. O. A. Beech
Brig. Gen. James L. Collins
,USA Brig. Gen. Archer L. Durham, USA
Gerald D. Griffen Vice Adm. Wesley L. McDonald, USN Lt. Gen. Elwood Quesada, USAF (Ret.)
Vice Adm. Robert H. Scarborough, USCG Lt. Gen. William J. White, USMC
Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 365

<<<Page: 381>>>

Lt. Gen. James T. Stewart, USAF (Ret.) Richard R. Whitcomb
Alexander H. Flax Gerard K. O'Neill Leon T. Silver
John F. Lehman, Jr., Secretary of the Navy
John O. Marsh, Jr., Secretary of the Army
Verne Orr, Secretary of the Air Force
Andrew J. Goodpaster, Lt. Gen., U.S. Army, retired
William I. Greener, Jr. William H. Perkins, Jr. Theodore Ropp
James M. Stone, Sr.
Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense, ex officio S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
Sol Tax, Chairman Matthew Huxley, Secretary Ira Abrams T. Berry Brazelton Roma Crocker William H. Crocker Herbert Di Gioia
Phoebe Ellsworth Gordon Gibson Edward T. Hall Glenn Harnden Stephen P. Hersh Paul Hockings Benetta Jules-Rosette Peter Marzio Constance B. Mellon
Norman Miller
Phileo Nash
Marion Stirling Pugh Jerold Schecter Hubert Smith
George Spindler Colin Turnbull Carroll W. Williams Joan Swayze Williams
Paul N. Perrot, Chairman George Abrams Craig C. Black
James M. Kemper, Jr., Chairman
William S. Anderson
Perry R. Bass
Lucius D. Battle
William W. Bodine, Jr.
Nicholas F. Brady
Mrs. Jackson Burke
Mrs. James M. Collins
Mrs. Justin Dart
E. Mandell deWindt
Richard P. Cooley Joseph F. Cullman 3rd Leonard K. Firestone Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Joel N. Bloom Marigene Butler Philip S. Humphrey Watson Laetsch
Thomas N. Maytham Jan K. Muhlert
Paul E. Rivard
F. Christopher Tahk
Gaylord Donnelley James A. Elkins, Jr. W. L. Hadley Griffin Gordon Hanes
John F. Harrigan Richard D. Hill
Mrs. Henry L. Hillman Carla Anderson Hills Samuel C. Johnson Seymour H. Knox, III
William A. Hewitt
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson Lewis A. Lapham George C. McGhee
366 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Scott McVay
Sandra D. O’Connor George S. Pillsbury
H. Smith Richardson, Jr. David E. Skinner
Roger B. Smith
Mrs. Edson W. Spencer Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. Vernon Taylor, Jr.
Parke Wright
Francis C. Rooney, Jr. Merritt Kirk Ruddock Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

<<<Page: 382>>>

George B. Tatum, Lloyd Goodrich David Lloyd Kreeger Chairman Walker Hancock Abram Lerner, ex officio Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy, R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Mrs. Hiram W. McKee Vice Chairman Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Philip Pearlstein S. Dillon Ripley, August Heckscher George Segal Secretary Mrs. Robert Homans Mrs. Oliver Seth Donald Anderson Thomas C. Howe Mrs. John Farr Simmons Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth Blake Richard L. Hunt Mrs. Charles Bagley Wright
Thomas S. Buechner
Martin Friedman Ogden Pleissner Charles H. Sawyer Henry P. Mcllhenny Edgar P. Richardson Andrew Wyeth Paul Mellon
Senator Barry Goldwater, Katie Louchheim Andrew Oliver Chairman Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Robert Hilton Smith
Barry Bingham, Sr. Robert H. Morgan Frank Stanton
Thomas M. Evans Barbara Novak Barbara Tuchman
J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
Archeology and Related Disciplines Advisory Council
Bennet Bronson Daniel M. Neuman William Trousdale
Thomas J. Hopkins Barbara Ramusack Edward Wente Astrophysics and Earth Sciences Advisory Council
Felix Chayes Paul Hodge Thornton Page
Henry Faul William Klein Victor Szebehely
George Field William Melson Louis Walter Systematic and Environmental Biology Advisory Council
Lafayette Frederick David L. Pawson Richard H. Tedford
Richard Highton Beryl B. Simpson Charles A. Triplehorn
Mrs. James M. Collins, Mrs. Townsend Burden III, Chairman Assistant Secretary
Mrs. Robert R. Gray, Mrs. Philip C. White, Vice Chairman Treasurer
Mrs. Donald Alexander, Mrs. Wells Stabler, Secretary Assistant Treasurer
Mrs. Denton Blair Mrs. Harrison Brand
Mrs. Huntington T. Block Mrs. George Bush
Mrs. Philip Bowie Mrs. Thomas J. Camp, Jr.
Mrs. Adelyn Dohme Breeskin Mrs. Charles H. Clark
Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 367

<<<Page: 383>>>

Mrs. Frank B. Clay
Mrs. Richard Cobb
Mrs. James L. Collins, Jr. Mrs. John Davidge
Mrs. John W. Gill
Mrs. William T. Hamilton Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr. Mrs. Walter Hodges
Mrs. George W. Jones Mrs. Robert Koehler
Mrs. Malcolm MacIntyre Mrs. J. Noel Macy
Mrs. William S. Mailliard Mrs. Donald Notman Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds Mrs. Dudley Owen
BOARD OF TRUSTEES Max M. Kampelman,
Vice Chairman James A. Baker III
Theodore C. Barreaux Chairman Daniel J. Boorstin
Robert A. Moshbacher, Kenneth B. Clark
Joseph D. Duffey
tuart E. Eizenstat
Mrs. Daniel Parker
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson Mrs. C. Michael Price
Mrs. Malcolm Price
Mrs. Edward Rich, Jr.
Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mrs. Ray Scherer
Mrs. Henry P. Smith III Mrs. Howard Smith, Jr.
Mrs. James McK. Symington Mrs. Willard Triest
Mrs. T. Graydon Upton Mrs. Charles Swan Weber Mrs. Edmund Wellington, Jr. Mrs. John Burke Wilkinson Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson
S. Dillon Ripley
Anne Firor Scott Robert M. Warner
William J. Baroody, Jr. Alexander M. Haig, Jr. Charles Z. Wick JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
BOARD OF TRUSTEES Honorary Chairmen
Mrs. Ronald Reagan Mrs. Jimmy Carter Mrs. Gerald Ford
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Officers
Roger L. Stevens, Chairman
Senator Charles H. Percy, Vice Chairman
Henry Strong, Vice Chairman
Frank Ikard, Secretary
Charlotte Woolard, Assistant Secretary
W. Jarvis Moody, Treasurer
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson Mrs. Aristotle Onassis Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower’
Henry McPherson, General Counsel William Becker Associate Counsel James F. Rogers, Assistant Treasurer John J. Ronveaux, Assistant Treasurer Henry Strong, Assistant Treasurer
Members Appointed by the President of the United States
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. K. LeMoyne Billings” Mrs. Edward T. Breathitt
‘ Deceased November 1, 1979.
? Deceased May 28, 1981.
368 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Marshall B. Coyne Richmond D. Crinkley June Oppen Degnan
Jesse H. Oppenheimer
Richard S. Schweiker

<<<Page: 384>>>

Mrs. J. Clifford Folger Abe Fortas
Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen J. William Fulbright Orval Hansen
Mrs. Bob Hope
Frank Ikard
Melvin R. Laird Marjorie M. Lawson Mrs. J. Willard Marriott Joan Mondale
Ronald H. Nessen
Donna Stone Pesch Gerald M. Rafshoon Mrs. Abraham Ribicoff Jean Kennedy Smith John G. Spatuzza Roger L. Stevens
Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss Henry Strong Benjamin A. Trustman Jack J. Valenti
Lew R. Wasserman Mrs. Jack Wrather
Members Ex Officio Designated by Act of Congress
Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of
Health and Human Services
T. H. Bell, Secretary of Education
Charles Z. Wick, Director,
Int'l Communications Agency
Senator James A. McClure Senator Edward M. Kennedy Senator Charles H. Percy
Representative Joseph M. McDade Representative Charles Wilson Representative Sidney R. Yates
Honorary Trustees
Mrs. George A. Garrett Ralph E. Becker
Marion S. Barry, Mayor, District of Columbia
S. Dillon Ripley I, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian of Congress
J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts
Russell E. Dickenson, Director, National Park Service
William H. Rumsey, Director, District of Columbia Department of Recreation
Mrs. Albert Lasker Mrs. Jouett Shouse
John J. Horan, Chairman
Vice Chairmen
Robert A. Beck
Charles L. Brown
James E. Burke
Willard C. Butcher
Frank T. Cary
James H. Evans
James L. Ferguson
Edward L. Hennessy, Jr.
Howard C. Kauffmann
James L. Ketelsen
Harold Burson, Secretary
Ray C. Adam William M. Agee Theodore A. Burtis Joseph E. Connor Hugh Cullman
William F. Kieschnick Paul LeBlanc
Archie R. McCardell Ruben F. Mettler
W. Jarvis Moody Edward L. Palmer Roger B. Smith
J. Paul Sticht Rawleigh Warner, Jr. Lew R. Wasserman
Edwin D. Dodd Harrington Drake Thomas E. Drohan Walter A. Fallon J. Robert Fluor
Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 369

<<<Page: 385>>>

Robert V. Hatcher, Jr. Roderick M. Hills Edwin K. Hoffman Amory Houghton, Jr. John V. James Edward G. Jefferson F. Ross Johnson Melvin R. Laird
J. Paul Lyet
J. Edwin Matz Edward N. Ney
Donald E. Procknow James D. Robinson III Thomas F. Russell Henry B. Schacht David C. Scott Donald V. Seibert Richard R. Shinn William S. Sneath
Dr. Otto Sturzenegger Patrick J. Waide, Jr. Dr. Jack Young
Paul Mellon, Chairman
Carlisle H. Humelsine Ruth Carter Johnson
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Secretary of State, ex officio
Donald T. Regan, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
David Challinor, Chairman, ex officio S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio Joseph G. Coyne
Joseph G. Coyne, Chairman
Charles E. Berkoff
Richard M. Berry
Melvin S. Day
Judah Drob
Hermann Enzer
Walton Francis
Earl X. Freed
Edward L. Helminski
David F. Hersey Robert M. Maloy Alan D. Ullberg Edward Wenk, Jr.
Alex G. Hoshovsky Natalie Kirkman Eugene G. Kovach Richard M. Laska Louis N. Lushina Robert E. Maizell John R. Myers Perry B. Newton, Jr.
Cathy O’Leary
W. David Williams
Audrey B. Davis Chairperson
Sheila Mutchler Vice-Chairperson
Ann Bay
Sherrill Berger
Prudence Clendenning
Margaret Cogswell
Bonnie Farmer
Ben Franklin
Judy Herman
Charlene James
370 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Kathleen Brooks-Pazmany Secretary-Treasurer Deborah Warner Historian Margaret Santiago Helen Podolske Katherine Pruitt Linda St. Thomas Johanna Scherer Miriam Weissman Judith White Edith Whiteman
Franklin D. Murphy John R. Stevenson

<<<Page: 386>>>

APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1980, through September 30, 1981
American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; U.S. participation in the Fifth World Sanskrit Conference; U.S. participation in the Fifth International Conference of Tamil Studies; Center for Ethnomusicology; documentary film on the annual bathing festival of Sitala; the Gujarat prehistoric project.
American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Operation of Center in Cairo; fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disciplines in Egypt; continuation of the architectural and epigraphic survey of Egypt; an archeological map of the Theban necropolis; excavations at Hierakonpolis; archeological investigations at Qasr Ibrim, Egyptian Nubia.
American University, Washington, D.C. The Vaishnava literary heritage of India.
Buena Vista College, Storm Lake, Iowa. Consultation on comparative electoral procedures (India).
Central Washington University, Ellensburg, Washington. Anglo-Indian relations in Western India, 1662-1690.
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Participation in conference, “The Monetary System of Mughal India.”
Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, Washington, D.C. A corpus of the mosaics of Tunisia (Tunisia); and publication (India).
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Preparation of a BaluchiEnglish dictionary (Pakistan); participation in Twenty-first Archaeometry Symposium (India).
Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, New York. Women and rice cultivation (India).
Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Indo-American fellowship program.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S. participation in the First International Conference on Panini (India).
Roosevelt University, Chicago, Illinois. A survey of Teyyam participation and personal imagery in Kerala (India).
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt.
State University of New York at Stonybrook, Long Island, New York. Participation in the Third Annual Roundtable on South Asian Language and Linguistics (India).
Appendix 2. Foreign Currency Program Awards / 371

<<<Page: 387>>>

University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. Mandalay Hill and King Mindon: the role of personal legitimation in Theravada Buddhist policy (Burma).
University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico. The urban plan of Vijayanagara (India).
Washington State University, Pullman, Washington. Predynastic subsistence in the Nagada Region, Upper Egypt.
Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, Michigan. The sending society: the effect of international migration on societies in India.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Participation in the International Symposium on Rodent Origins and Radiation (India).
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Anthropological and paleontological research into the fossil anthropoid sites of the Egyptian Oligocene.
Howard University, Washington, D.C. Cenozoic mammals of Pakistan; participation in the Eleventh Himalayan Geology Seminar (India).
National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education, Washington, D.C. Exchange visit to develop cooperative programs in the biological sciences and other areas of mutual interest (India).
National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Endangered plant workshop (India); continuation of research on the Araceae of southwestern India.
National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C. Comparative study of tiger programs (India). New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York. Cyperaceae of India.
Pomona College, Pomona, California. Systematic studies of reproduction in bamboo (India).
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Panama. U.S. participation in the Silver Jubilee symposium of the International Society for Tropical Ecology (India); fellowship travel support (India); comparative studies of South Indian birds; survey of population status of pelicans in India.
Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois. The occlusal epidemiological transition in populations of North India.
Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville, Illinois. Anatomy of the monocotyledons (India).
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. A palynological and botanical survey in selected areas in Pakistan.
University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia. U.S. participation in the Silver Jubilee symposium of the International Society for Tropical Biology (India).
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. Taxonomic and zoogeographic studies of blennoid and soleiid fishes of the genera Helcogramma and Pardachirus (India).
University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon. Post-Pleistocene dental variation in South Asia (India).
Washington State University, Pullman, Washington. Late Cenozoic climatic changes: the deep sea record (India).
372 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 388>>>

National Air and Space Museum, Washington, D.C. Desert erosion and sand movement (Egypt).
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Continuation of operation of Uttar Pradesh State Observatory/Smithsonian Astrophysical Observing Station, Naini Tal, India; continuation of operation of a satellite-tracking laser system at the Helwan Observatory in Egypt; highenergy gamma-ray conference development (India); participation in Time and Frequency Conference (India).
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Pluvial lake studies (Egypt).
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. smm-related research in solar astronomy (India).
University of Rochester, Rochester, New York. Petrologic and geochemical study of 3,800-million-year-old crust in Eastern India.
American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Development of photographic research archives (India).
Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Project support for Indo-U.S. joint programs; conference, “Discourses on Shiva;” Indian film festival.
Puppeteers of America, Washington, D.C. Documentation of traditional Kathputli puppeteers of Rajasthan, India.
Appendix 2. Foreign Currency Program Awards / 373

<<<Page: 389>>>

APPENDIX 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1981
American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.
National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C.
The Textile Museum, Washington, D.C.
Michael Connolly, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
Paula DeCristofaro, Courtauld Institute of Art, London, England Madeleine W. Fang, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada Karen Garlick, Folger Shakespeare Library, Washington, D.C.
Cathy Giangrande, University of London, London, England
Mary M. Giza, The Textile Conservation Centre, Ltd., Surrey, England Joanna Hill, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts
Paul R. Jett, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
Sharon R. Lee, us/1comos, Washington, D.C.
Marilyn Lenz, University of London, London, England
Holly Maxson, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Lisa Minette Morriss, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada Judith A. Munn, The Library, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland
Amy Rosenberg, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, Ann Arbor, Michigan Philip Sykas, The Textile Conservation Centre, Ltd., Surrey, England Eugene V. York, Mystic Seaport Museum, Inc., Mystic, Connecticut
Bank Street College of Education, New York, New York
Cooperstown Graduate Programs, Oneonta, New York
New York University, New York, New York
The University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware
374 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 390>>>

Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.
Carnegie Institute, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvana
Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Massachusetts
The Museums at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York
New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York
Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois
South Carolina Museum Commission, Columbia, South Carolina The University Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut Zoological Society of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Jo Anne S. Arasim, Panhandle-Plains Historical Museum, Canyon, Texas Carmelo Guadegno, Museum of the American Indian, New York, New York Joshua R. Kaufman, University of Nebraska State Museum, Lincoln, Nebraska Gary S. Roybal, San Ildefonso Pueblo Museum, Santa Fe, New Mexico Katharine J. Watson, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine
Marianne Yeutter, Washington Park Zoo, Portland, Oregon
Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York
Carnegie-Mellon University, Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Center for Archaeometry, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, Albuquerque, New Mexico Museum of New Mexico, Santa Fe, New Mexico
American Museum of Natural History, New York, New York Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania
Zoological Society of San Diego, San Diego, California
African American Museums Association, Washington, D.C.
American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.
American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee Association of Systematic Collections, Lawrence, Kansas
National Conservation Advisory Council, Washington, D.C.
Society of American Archivists, Chicago, Illinois
Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 375

<<<Page: 391>>>

APPENDIX 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments in Fiscal Year 1981
The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. These appointees are provided access to the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources. The persons listed in this appendix began their residencies between October 1, 1980, and September 30, 1981. Predoctoral Fellows are designated as Ph.D. candidates, and those names marked with an asterisk indicate Visiting Research students. Postdoctoral Fellows, senior scholars, and visiting scientists and interns are listed as such.
William T. Dargan, Ph.D. candidate, Wesleyan University. A theoretical and functional analysis of music in select black Pentecostal churches, with Dr. Bernice J. Reagon, Division of Performing Arts, from January 1, 1981, through December 31, 1981.
Gary Sue Goodman,* Ph.D. candidate, Stanford University. “All about Me Forgotten”, a biography of Caroline Healey Dall, 1822-1912, with Mr. Alan Bain, Smithsonian Institution Archives, from June 22, 1981, through August 28, 1981.
Elise K. Kirk, Ph.D., Catholic University of America. Historical study of musical activities associated with the White House, with Mrs. Margaret Klapthor, Division of Political History, National Museum of American History, from June 1, 1981, through May 31, 1982.
Sally McMurry, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University. Architecture and cultural change; rural homes of the North, 1830-1895, with Ms. Rodris Roth, Division of Domestic Life, National Museum of American History, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
William Nye, Ph.D., New School for Social Research. The tragic genius of Charlie Parker, with Dr. Thomas Vennum, Office of Folklife Programs, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Susan Tank, Ph.D., London School of Economics. Iconography of American feminism; the political symbolism of the struggle for suffrage, with Ms. Edith Mayo, Division of Political History, National Museum of American History, from May 1, 1981, through April 30, 1982.
Andrew Apter,* Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Yoruba drum language and ritual communication in Nigeria and the New World, with Dr. Gordon Gibson, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 8, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
John A. Hotopp, Ph.D., University of Iowa. Archeology of lower Cheyenne River sites (39ST1), with Dr. Waldo Wedel, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1980, through December 31, 1981.
376 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 392>>>

Priscilla Linn, Ph.D., Oxford University. Social organization and material culture; research on the Canela Collection at the Smithsonian, with Dr. William Crocker, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 15, 1981, through June 14, 1982.
David Meltzer, Ph.D. candidate, University of Washington. Early man, the Smithsonian, and the development of American archaeology; an historical perspective, with Dr. Bruce Smith, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from July 1, 1981, through December 31, 1981. Martin Nweeia,* D.D.S. candidate, Case Western Reserve University. Antimortem tooth discoloration and dental hypoplasia in indigenous populations of three North American regions, with Dr. Donald Ortner, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 1, 1981, through August 12, 1981.
Nancy Parezo, Ph.D., University of Arizona. The role of anthropologists and museums in the development of Southwest Indian arts and crafts, with Dr. William Sturtevant, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Donald Whitcomb, Ph.D., University of Chicago. Archaeology of Islamic southern Arabia, with Dr. Gus Van Beek and Dr. William Trousdale, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1 to November 30, 1981, and from April 1 to December 31, 1982.
Wendy Wilson,* Ph.D. candidate, Howard University. Analysis of data from Nigerian fieldwork on tattoos of pastoral Fulani, with Mr. Edward Lifschitz, Museum of African Art, and Dr. Gordon Gibson, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 1, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
Mitchell Berger, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Studies in theoretical solar physics, with Dr. George B. Field. Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1981, through May 31, 1982.
Jerome Brainerd, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Studies in astrophysics, with Dr. Donald Q. Lamb, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from June 1, 1981, through August 31, 1981.
Tomasz Chlebowski, Visiting Scientist, Ph.D., Warsaw University. Studies in high energy astrophysics, with Dr. Frederick Seward, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from January 1, 1981, through August 31, 1981.
David Cooper, Ph.D., Oxford University. Studies in astrophysics, with Dr. George Rybicki, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Thomas Hartquist, Visiting Scientist, Ph.D., Harvard University. Studies in theoretical astrophysics, with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from June 1, 1981, through August 31, 1981.
Richard Munro, Visiting Scientist, Ph.D., Harvard University. Research involving the physics of the solar corona and its solar wind acceleration region, with Dr. George Withbroe, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from February 23, 1981, through March 31, 1981.
Patrick Murphy,* Ph.D., candidate, University College, Dublin. Study of the properties of cD type galaxies using CCD camera, with Dr. Trevor Weekes, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from May 25, 1981, through July 5, 1981.
Keith Olive, Ph.D., University of Chicago. Studies in astrophysics, with Dr. George Rybicki, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from July 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.
Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 377

<<<Page: 393>>>

David R. Soderblom, Langley-Abbott Fellow, Ph.D., University of California. Studies in solar and stellar physics, with Dr. A. K. Dupree, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982. Saul Teukolsky, Visiting Scientist, Ph.D., California Institute of Technology. Research on existing and new theoretical prospects in the areas of relativistic astrophysics and astrophysical fluid dynamics, with Dr. Alan Lightman, Dr. William Press, and Dr. George Rybicki, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from August 15, 1981, through August 14, 1982.
Nigel O. Weiss, Visiting Scientist, Ph.D., University of Cambridge. Collaborative studies of the effects of changing convection zone parameters in magnetic dynamo models, with Dr. Robert Rosner, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from August 15, 1981, through September 5, 1981.
George Anastasakis, Ph.D., University of Keele. A study of the dynamic processes of sedimentation of sapropelic layers from the eastern Mediterranean and of associated early magnetic changes, with Dr. Daniel Stanley, Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from July 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.
Alan Bond, Visiting Scientist, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Special ecological studies, with Dr. John Balling, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from May 25, 1981, through August 21, 1981.
Judy Diamond, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Observational studies of families in natural environments, with Dr. John Balling, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from March 9, 1981, through March 8, 1982. Russell Greenberg, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Experimental analysis of foraging plasticity in some migrant wood warblers (Dendroica: Parulidae), with Dr. Eugene Morton, National Zoological Park, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Tsukaho Hattori, Ph.D., candidate, Nagoya University. Biogenesis of chloroplasts; in vitro synthesis of subunits of proton translocating ATPase complex of chloroplast, with Dr. Maurice Margulies, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Ikuo Horiguchi, Visiting Scientist, Ph.D., Hokkaido University. Research on the spectral change of total sun and sky radiation and the effect on plant growth, with Dr. John C. Sager, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from May 1, 1981, through September 30, 1981.
Blanche Meeson, Ph.D., University of California, Santa Barbara. Photosynthetic response to adaptation of an estuarine dinoflagellate to light quality and irradiance, with Dr. Maria Faust, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from February 1, 1981, through January 31, 1982.
Patricia Mehlhop, Ph.D., University of New Mexico. Worker caste polymorphism as a predictor of diet specialization in ants, with Dr. James Lynch, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from September 15, 1981, through September 14, 1982.
Nicholas M. Shaw, Ph.D., University of Wales. The effect of cyclic nucleotides on the photoinduction and pathway of carotenoid biosynthesis in Neurospora crassa, with Dr. Roy Harding, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from September 1, 1980, through November 30, 1981.
Theresa Thompson,* M.S. candidate, University of Maryland. Social organization within eastern wild turkey flocks at the Front Royal Research Center,
378 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 394>>>

with Dr. Eugene Morton and Dr. Guy Greenwell, Front Royal Research Center, National Zoological Park, from June 1, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
Stephen Cairns, Ph.D., University of Miami. A phylogenetic analysis of the Stylasterina (Coelenterata: Hydrozoa), with Dr. Frederick Bayer, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 1, 1981, to May 31, 1982.
Charles Crumly, Ph.D. candidate, Rutgers University. The intraand intergeneric relationships of tortoises (Family Testudinidae); a survey and reevaluation of anatomical systems, with Dr. George Zug, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Mark Hay, Ph.D., University of California, Irvine. Algal-animal interactions on tropical reefs; the effect of grazers on competitive interactions, reef productivity, and algal diversity, with Dr. Walter H. Adey, Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from October 1, 1980, through September 30, 1981.
Sara Lewis, Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar, Ph.D. candidate, Duke University. The effects of echinoid and fish herbivory on algal species distributions and benthic community structure, with Dr. James Norris, Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1981, through July 31, 1983.
Miranda MacQuitty, Ph.D. candidate, University of London. A systematic study of the Halacaroidea (marine mites) from the California coast, with Dr. Ralph Crabill, Department of Entomology, National Museum of Natural History, from August 15, 1981, through August 14, 1982.
Nancy Morin, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Biosystematic study of Campanula species endemic to western North America, with Dr. Stanwyn Shetler, Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, from October 1, 1980, through August 31, 1981.
Izumi Nakamura, Ph.D., Kyoto University. The phylogenetic relationships of the fishes referred to the perciform suborder Scombroidei, with Dr. Robert Gibbs, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from January 1, 1981, through December 31, 1981.
Sunday Petters, Ph.D., Rutgers University. Foraminiferal biostratigraphy, paleoecology, and paleobathymetry of the Niger delta, with Dr. Martin Buzas, Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from March 1, 1981, through February 28, 1982.
D. R. Regupathy, Ph.D., Madurai-Kamaraj University. Studies on comparative and systematic anatomy of palm trees, with Dr. Robert Read, Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Robert Robbins, Ph.D., Tufts University. Higher classification of the speciesrich hairstreak butterflies, with Dr. John Burns, Department of Entomology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Maria Solis,* M.A. candidate, University of Texas, Austin. A biogeographical comparison of the moths of Liquidambar forests, with Dr. Donald Davis, Department of Entomology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 6, 1981, through July 17, 1981.
David Steadman, Ph.D. candidate, University of Arizona. Vertebrate paleontology of the Galapagos Islands, with Dr. Storrs Olson, Department of
Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 379

<<<Page: 395>>>

Vertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from July 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.
Robert Steneck, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. Adaptive trends in the ecology and evolution of crustose corallines; a key to interpreting evolution of shallow marine communities, with Dr. Walter Adey, Department of Paleontology, National Museum of Natural History, from May 1, 1981, through April 30, 1982.
Garland Upchurch, Ph.D., University of Michigan. The systematics, evolution, and paleoecology of early angiosperm leaves from the Potomac Group of Maryland and Virginia, with Dr. Leo Hickey, Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Jeffrey Williams,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Florida. Cladistic relationships and revision of the genus Cirripectes (Pisces: Blenniidae), with Dr. Victor Springer, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Natural History, from June 14, 1981, through August 23, 1981.
David Bjelajac, Ph.D. candidate, University of North Carolina. The relevance of Washington Allston’s religious paintings to American politics and culture, with Mr. William Truettner and Dr. Lois Fink, National Museum of American Art, from August 15, 1981, through August 14, 1982.
Bruce Coats,* Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Japanese painting and calligraphy of 16th and 17th centuries, with Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu, Freer Gallery of Art, from June 15, 1981, through August 21, 1981. Nancy Heller, Ph.D. candidate, Rutgers University. The Sculpture of Ibram Lassaw, with Mrs. Cynthia McCabe and Dr. Judith Zilczer, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from February 1, 1981, through July 31, 1981. Elizabeth Johns, Ph.D., Emory University. Thomas Eakins; iconography and cultural context in his paintings, with Dr. Lois Fink, National Museum of American Art and Ms. Phyllis Rosenzweig, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from July 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.
Koji Nakamura, Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund Fellow. M.A., Kyoto University. Japanese Buddhist art, with Dr. Thomas Lawton, Freer Gallery of Art, from October 1, 1980, through December 31, 1980.
Michael Panhorst,* M.A. candidate, University of Delaware. The Samuel A. Murray collection at the Hirshhorn, with Ms. Phyllis Rosenzweig and Dr. Judith Zilczer, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from June 1, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
Julie Springer-Delph,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Minnesota. The art and career of John White Alexander, with Dr. Lois Fink, National Museum of American Art, from July 1, 1981, through September 9, 1981.
Diane Tepfer, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. Edith Gregor Halpert and the Downtown Gallery Downtown, 1926 to 1940; a study in American art patronage, with Dr. Harry Z. Rand, National Museum of American Art, from August 1, 1981, through July 31, 1982.
Peter Barboriak,* Ph.D. candidate, Duke University. Medicine in the American military, 1819-1859, with Dr. Ramunas Kondratas, Division of Medical Sciences, National Museum of American History, from June 1, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
380 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 396>>>

Giovanni Battimelli, Guggenheim Fellow, Laurea in Fisica, University of Rome. The historical development of the cross-fertilization between the statisticomechanical and the hydrodynamical approaches in the theory of turbulence, with Dr. Paul Hanle, Department of Space Science and Exploration, National Air and Space Museum, from October 1, 1980, through September 30, 1981. R. E. G. Davies, The Charles A. Lindbergh Chair. Research, writing, and lecturing in air transport history, with Dr. Noel Hinners, National Air and Space Museum, from July 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.
Victoria Harden, Ph.D. candidate, Emory University. The National Institute of Health; the early years, with Dr. Ramunas Kondratas, Division of Medical Sciences, National Museum of American History, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Pamela E. Mack, Guggenheim Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pennsylvania. A history of LANDSAT, 1964-1977, with Dr. Paul Hanle, Department of Space Science and Exploration, National Air and Space Museum, from October 1, 1980, through September 30, 1981.
Adrianne Née, Guggenheim Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Pilot testing programs and flight simulation technology in the American military, 1910-1945, with Dr. Tom Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, National Air and Space Museum, from August 1, 1981, through July 31, 1982.
Jeffrey Stine, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Technology and Empire; the diffusion of American technology abroad, 1898-1916, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from September 15, 1981, through September 14, 1982.
Suzanne P. DeAtley, Ph.D., University of California, Los Angeles. Production and exchange of Four Mile Polychrome in the Little Colorado region, Arizona, with Dr. William Melson, Department of Mineral Sciences, National Museum of Natural History; Ms. Jacqueline Olin, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, Office of Museum Programs; and Dr. Bruce Smith, Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from October 15, 1980, through October 14, 1981.
Catherine Craig, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University. Dynamics of prey capture by three species of orb-web weaving spiders, with Dr. Michael Robinson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Priya Davidar, Ph.D., University of Bombay. Coevolution of neotropical mistletoes and birds, with emphasis on frugivory and seed dispersal, with Dr. Neal Smith, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from June 1, 1981, through May 31, 1982.
Stephen Garrity, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. The ecology of the rocky intertidal of the Caribbean coast of Panama, with Dr. John D. Cubit, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from May 1, 1981, through April 30, 1982.
Stephen Mulkey,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Herbaceous diversity of the tropical forest understory; a topographic analysis, with Dr. Alan Smith, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from June 1, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
Janie Lea Wulff, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Intimate relationships of sponges; accidents or adaptations, with Dr. Ross Robertson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 381

<<<Page: 397>>>

Donna Campbell, University of South Florida. Work and study on the Chesapeake Bay Information Network Project, with Dr. J. Kevin Sullivan, from June 26, 1981, through September 5, 1981.
Martha Cousar, Princeton University. Study of community structure and population biology of benthic invertebrates, with Dr. Anson Hines, from June 15, 1981, through October 30, 1981.
Susan Dixon, University of Vermont. Work as Program Leader for Summer Ecology Program, with Dr. John Falk and Ms. Vivian Harquail, from June 22, 1981, through August 21, 1981.
Sharyn Goldstein, University of Massachusetts. Work and study emphasizing terrestrial plant ecology, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 1, 1981, through August 31, 1981.
William Peterjohn, Miami University. Study of the compositional changes in groundwater and surface runoff occurring in three watersheds under different land management practices, with Dr. David Correll, from July 20, 1981, through December 24, 1981.
Jonathan Pitkin, Swarthmore College. A study of the young of the pickerel, Esox niger, and adult carp, Cyprinus carpio, at Rhode River, with Mr. Joseph Miklas, from May 18, 1981, through August 21, 1981.
Gilbert Richardson, University of New Hampshire. Ecological investigations of managed systems—a management preference study, with Dr. John Falk, from May 24, 1981, through August 30, 1981.
Jim Shackelford, University of Michigan. Work as program leader for Summer Ecology Program, with Dr. John Falk and Ms. Vivian Harquail, from June 22, 1981, through August 21, 1981.
Vivian Vankai, Oberlin College. Study of the role of heterotrophs in salt marsh, with Dr. Maria Faust, from June 15, 1981, through September 4, 1981. Matthew Werner, Wagner College. Study of the feeding ecology of ant species in hardwood forest communities, with Dr. James Lynch, from May 18, 1981, through November 18, 1981.
Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Students
Michelle Coleman, Wesleyan University. Work and study in the Office of the Director, with Mr. Peter Scherer, from June 15, 1981, through August 21, 1981. Susan Morrison, Harvard University. Work and study in the Office of Exhibitions, with Ms. Lucy Fellowes, from June 15, 1981, through September 18, 1981.
Lee Ann Pralle, Wellesley College. Work and study in the Department of Decorative Arts, with Mr. David McFadden, from June 15, 1981, through August 21, 1981.
Theresa Barnes, Scripps College. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Mr. Howard Fox, from December 17, 1980, to February 8, 1981.
Ellen Borovsky, George Washington University. Research and study in the Department of Education, with Mr. Edward Lawson, from January 12 to May 5, 1981.
382 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 398>>>

Robin Cembalest, Yale University. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Phyllis Rosenzweig, from June 8, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Susan Dickson, Principia College. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Valerie Fletcher, January 5 to May 14, 1981. Susan Emmet, University of Maryland. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Mrs. Cynthia Jaffee McCabe, January 27 through May 31, 1981.
Adrienne Griffin, Georgetown University. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Judith Zilczer, from June 8 to August 7, 1981.
Gretchen Grogen, Georgetown University. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Judith Zilczer, from January 5 through May 31, 1981.
Susan Hammerland, College of William and Mary. Research and study in the Department of Exhibition and Design, with Mr. Joseph Shannon, from June 8, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Martha-Lucia Sierra, Bogota, Columbia. Research and study throughout museum for one year internship, January 5, 1981, through December, 1981. Erin Stimmell, Cornell University. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Mrs. Cynthia Jaffee McCabe, from June 8, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Lois Anne Sullivan, Pomona College. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Dr. Miranda McClintic, from June 8, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Rachel Walpole, Swarthmore College. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Valerie Fletcher, from June 8, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Karen Garlick, Book Conservator, Folger Library. Two month internship in Examinations and Treatments of Works of Art on Paper, with Toni Owen, July through August, 1981.
Cindy Lou Molnar. University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. Oneonta State University of New York. Study of Modern Painting Lining Techniques, Cleaning and Surface Treatments, with Felrath Hines, Conservator, December 15, 1980 to August 15, 1981.
Stacy Head, Spelman College. Work and study in the Curatorial Department, with Mr. Lee Williams, from June 1, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
Pamela Pope, Mary Baldwin College. Work and study with the Docent/Intern Coordinator, Ms. Gretchen Jennings, from June 1, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
Michael Dennis, University of Pennsylvania. Work and study in the Department of Space Science and Exploration, with Dr. David DeVorkin, from May 18, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
David Durham, California Institute of Technology. Work and study in the Department of Aeronautics, with Dr. Howard Wolko, from June 15, 1981, through August 28, 1981.
Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 383

<<<Page: 399>>>

Stephen Garner, Lawrenceville School. Work and study in the Department of
Aeronautics, Silver Hill Facility, with Mr. Robert Wood, from June 15, 1981, ’
through August 7, 1981.
Heather Harrington, University of Kansas. Work and study in the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, with Dr. Farouk El-Baz, from June 18, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Marc Hodak, University of Maryland. Work and study in the Department of Aeronautics, with Mr. Glen Sweeting, from May 18, 1981, through July 24, 1981.
Lucy O’Keefe, University of North Carolina. Work and study in the Department of Space Science and Exploration, with Dr. Allan Needell, from May 18, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Jo Anne Powell, Indiana University. Work and study in the Art Department, with Ms. Mary Valdivia, from June 15, 1981, through August 14, 1981. Edward Pupek, Villanova University. Work and study in the Bureau Library, with Ms. Catherine Scott, from June 15, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Rae Smith, Clark College. Work and study in the Education Services Division, with Ms. Janet Wolfe, from May 18, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Andre Hawkins, Georgetown University. Research and study in the Department of Education, with Ms. Barbara Shissler Nosanow, from June 1, 1981, through August 31, 1981.
Paula Jennings, Arizona State University. Research and study in the Office of the Registrar, with Mr. William R. Johnston, from June 1, 1981, through July 31, 1981.
Birgit Larson, University of Arhus, Denmark. Research and study in the Department of Twentieth Century Painting and Sculpture, with Dr. Harry Z. Rand, from June 1, 1981, through July 31, 1981.
Ellen Mahoney, Smith College. Research and study in the Office of Exhibition and Design, with Ms. Georgine Reed, from June 1, 1981, through July 31, 1981. Leslie Picot, Yale University. Research and study in the Department of Education, with Ms. Barbara Shissler Nosanow, from June 1, 1981, through July 31, 1981.
Rogerio Castro, M.S. candidate, University of Florida. Research and studies with the National Zoological Park Primate Conservation Training Program, with Dr. John G. Robinson, from January 1, 1981, through August 31, 1981. Carlos Saavedra, M.S. candidate, University of Florida. Research and studies with the National Zoological Park Primate Conservation Training Program, with Dr. John G. Robinson, from July 1, 1981, through May 31, 1982.
Sompoad Srikosamatara, Ph.D. candidate, University of Florida. Research and studies with the National Zoological Park Primate Conservation Training Program, with Dr. John G. Robinson, from July 1, 1981, through May 31, 1982.
SECRETARY’S FELLOW RESEARCH ASSISTANT Mumia wa Shimaka, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University. Research assistant
to Dr. Joseph Harris, Secretary's Fellow, from September 1, 1981, through May 31, 1982.
384 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 400>>>

Linda Alexander. Early 20th century exhibition catalogues, with Mr. Garnett McCoy, Archives of American Art, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981.
Jo Deutsch. American perfumes in the later 19th century, with Dr. G. Terry Sharrer, Division of Extractive Industries, National Museum of American History, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981.
Lynda Edwards. A study of instant baby formulas from 1914 to the present, with Dr. G. Terry Sharrer, Division of Extractive Industries, National Museum of American History, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981. Anne Shuart. Index of collection of Thomas Eakins photographs, with Dr. Judith K. Zilczer, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981.
Melinda Smith. Franklin D. Roosevelt Centennial Exhibition, with Dr. Arthur Molella, Division of Electricity and Modern Physics, National Museum of American History, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981. Rebecca Waning. Exhibition: Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, with Ms. Kristie Miller, Renwick Gallery, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981.
Patricia Wischerth. The papers of Charles Willson Peale, with Dr. Lillian Miller and Dr. Sidney Hart, Charles Willson Peale Papers, National Portrait Gallery, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981.
Wendy Wright. Research on North American Indian photographs, with Ms. Paula Fleming, National Anthropological Archives, National Museum of Natural History, from August 20, 1981, through December 18, 1981.
Division of Performing Arts
Sara G. Carr, Skidmore College. Study of administration, fund raising, production, and daily management of the Twentieth Century Consort, performing arts group, with Mr. Anthony Ames, from January 12, 1981, through May 31, 1981.
Mary Ellen Hulsey, Hollins College. Research and production work for the Spring Celebration and the July 4th Celebration, with Ms. Shirley Cherkasky, from January 1, 1981, through April 30, 1981.
Laura Lubman, George Washington University. Assistant to the editor of Notes on the Arts and other publications, with Ms. Margare Wentzel, from January 9, 1981, through April 30, 1981.
Sylvia Mansour, George Washington University. Assistant in the Office of the Director of the Division, with Ms. Sharyn H. Reitz, from February 1, 1981, through May 31, 1981.
Diane Oklota, Marywood College. Work on the July 4th 1981 Celebration, with Ms. Shirley Cherkasky, from May 20, 1981, through August 7, 1981. Kathryn Ward, Wesleyan University. Research and study compiling information for Notes on the Arts and assisting the editor, with Ms. Margaret S. Wentzel, from July 7, 1981, through November 10, 1981.
Folklife Program
Barbara Smith, George Mason University. Work and study reviewing taped interviews and preparing log sheets from the 1976 Festival of American Folklife, with Ms. Susan Jane Kalcik, from May 11, 1981, through July 31, 1981.
Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 385

<<<Page: 401>>>

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Amy Heller, Hampshire College. Training in various aspects of exhibits preparation, with Mr. Joseph Shannon, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and Ms. Kristie Miller, Renwick Gallery, from September 15, 1980, through May 31, 1981.
Joseph Henry Papers Stephen Kladder, Hope College. Historical research in manuscript and published sources, with Dr. Arthur Molella, from January 19, 1981, through February 27, 1981.
National Air and Space Museum
Irene Endsley, American University. Research and study involving library resources and records, with Ms. Catherine Scott, from August 17, 1981, through November 16, 1981.
National Museum of American History
Lisa Gore, Purdue University. Cataloguing newly acquired textile materials, with Ms. Rita Adrosko, Division of Textiles, from January 21, 1981, through April 21, 1981.
Shannon Patsey, American University. Research and study involving food technology, with Dr. Terry Sharrer, Division of Extractive Industries, from June 25, 1981, through August 14, 1981.
Victoria Phillips, Smith College. Research designed to provide graphics to be used for the George Washington exhibit, with Dr. William Pretzer, Division of Graphic Arts, from June 8, 1981, through July 3, 1981.
Arlyn Purcell, Stanford University. Study of the role played in New York City’s history and urban policy by the construction of a railroad bridge, with Dr. Brooke Hindle, Senior Historian, from August 15, 1981, through September 15, 1981.
Betty Schwartz, Stanford University. Research using Smithsonian materials relating to maps and landscapes, with Dr. William Pretzer, Division of Graphic Arts, from August 17, 1981, through December 20, 1981.
Vivian Stevens, George Washington University. Cataloguing and identifying various items and studying basic exhibit techniques, with Mr. Donald Kloster, Division of Military History, from May 14, 1981, through August 19, 1981.
National Museum of Natural History
Michael Blakey, University of Massachusetts, National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow. Research on the early history of American physical anthropology, with Ms. Paula Fleming, National Anthropological Archives, from July 1, 1981, through August 28, 1981.
Nadia Greenidge, New York University, National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow. Research and study involving processing of brain and skeletal material, with Dr. Lawrence Angel and Dr. Douglas Ubelaker, Department of Anthropology, from July 1, 1981, through August 21, 1981.
Michael Howell, University of Michigan, National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow, Research and study in biological oceanography, with Dr. James Norris, Department of Botany, from June 22, 1981, through August 15, 1981. Willie D. Marks, University of the District of Columbia. Work and study in the geological materials preparation laboratory, with Dr. Daniel Appleman, Department of Mineral Sciences, from June 15, 1981, through December 18, 1981.
James L. Matory, Harvard University. Research and study involving Smithsonian African weapons collections, with Dr. Gordon Gibson, Department of Anthropology, from June 1, 1981, through August 21, 1981.
386 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 402>>>

Gail Peretsman, Carleton College. Geochemical and petrographic analysis of new meteorites in Smithsonian collection, with Dr. Kurt Fredriksson, Department of Mineral Sciences, from June 15, 1981, through August 21, 1981. Dana Seyfried, Macalester College. Research and study on the Labrador project, with Dr. William Fitzhugh, Department of Anthropology, from June 22, 1981, through August 28, 1981.
National Portrait Gallery
Frederick Williams, George Washington University. Research and study in the Education Department, with Dr. Kenneth Yellis, from September 28, 1981, through March 12, 1982.
Office of Museum Programs
Pamela Mays, Georgetown University. Development of filmed education materials, with Ms. Eleanor Crow, from July 7, 1981, through August 31, 1981.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Roxane Ahkao, University of Maryland. Research and study in the Rare Book Conservation Laboratory, with Mr. Johannes Hyltoft, from Septembers 14, 1981, through November 20, 1981.
Laura Anne Bedard, University of Maryland. Work and study involving cataloguing and searching rare books, with Ms. Dianne M. Chilmonczyk, from September 8, 1981, through December 31, 1981.
Gayle Porter, Brigham Young University. Research and study with Automated Bibliographic Control System, with Ms. Vija Karklins, from May 5, 1981, through June 25, 1981.
In addition to the appointments listed above, which are administered by the Office of Fellowships and Grants, the following bureaus hosted interns and fellows:
William Bridgeland Marta Rovira Joanne Zimmerman
Holly Edwards, University of Michigan. Islamic art and museology. October 1980 to June 1, 1981.
John L. Czarnecki, Rochester Institute of Technology. General graphic arts support and multi-image production work, with Ms. Patricia Woodside, Exhibits and Presentations Division, from June 8, 1981, through August 14, 1981. Kathryn Elton, Inventory of serials in preparation for binding, with Ms. Catherine D. Scott, Library Branch, from June 22, 1981, to July 31, 1981. Danielle George, St. Johns College. Assist with general operation of a public affairs office, with Ms. Rita Bobowski, Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services, from April 21, 1981, to June 15, 1981.
Holly J. Smeltzer, Indiana University of Pennsylvania. General graphic arts support and multi-image production work, with Ms. Patricia Woodside, Exhibits and Presentation Division, from February 3, 1981, to May 15, 1981.
Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 387

<<<Page: 403>>>

Misho Protic, Harvard University. Research and study of ballooning in the 1930s, with Dr. Tom Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, National Air and Space Museum, from September 5, 1980, to December 5, 1980.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies Interns
Ellen Lettvin, University of Michigan. Assist in editing reports that relate to remote sensing of arid lands, with Dr. Farouk El-Baz, from July 2, 1981, to August 13, 1981.
Shereen Sullivan, James Madison University. Prepare an annotated desert bibliography, with Dr. Farouk El-Baz, from June 29, 1981, to August 21, 1981.
Christine Conniff, University of New Mexico. Research and study, with Allan Kaneshiro, Department of Education, from June 1, 1981, through July 31, 1981. Jody Socol, Southern Methodist University. Research and study with Merry Foresta, Department of Twentieth Century Painting and Sculpture, from June 29, 1981, through August 7, 1981.
Education Interns
Claudia Esko, Pennsylvania State University (January 12—April 17, 1981) Florence Schwein, George Washington University (January 12—April 17, 1981) Veronica Taylor, Pennsylvania State University (January 12—April 17, 1981) Kathryn Williams, George Washington University (January 12—April 17, 1981)
Program in Museum Studies
Deborah Confer, George Washington University (January 12—April 17, 1981)
Meryl Cohen, George Washington University (September 4, 1980—April 17, 1981)
Julia Daniel, American University (September 4, 1980—April 17, 1981)
Mary Lou Hansen, George Washington University (September 4, 1980April 17, 1981)
Cheryl Hauser, Indiana University (January 12—April 17, 1981)
Roya Marefat, George Washington University (September 4, 1980—April 17, 1981)
Elizabeth Rodriguez, George Washington University (September 4, 1980April 17, 1981)
Abigail Terrones, George Washington University (September 4, 1980—April 17, 1981)
Philip Wright, George Washington University (September 4, 1980—April 17, 1981)
Marino Maggetti, Ph.D., University of Fribourg, Technology of Production of Imported and Locally Produced Spanish-Colonial Majolica, with Jacqueline S. Olin, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, Office of Museum Programs and Richard E. Ahlborn, Department of Cultural History, Museum of American History, from June 29, 1981, through August 31, 1982.
Deborah Lerme, George Washington University. Research and development of educational and interpretive materials, with Ms. Marjorie Share, Education Department, from January through May 1981.
388 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 404>>>

Alan Steiner, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Research and study on computer management, with Mr. Antonio Diez, Assistant Director for Administration and Program Analysis, from May through August 1981. Marta de la Torre, The American University. Analysis of office space and exhibition and administrative work load, with Ms. Eileen Rose, International Office, from May through August 1981.
Scholarly Studies Program
Daniel Abel, Charleston College.
Bruce Alexander, Imperial College, London.
Thomas Barringer, University of Pennsylvania.
Robin L. Chazdon, Cornell University.
Kathleen Cole, University of Alberta, Edmonton.
Kathryn Dickson, Scripps Institute of Oceanography, University of San Diego. Leo Fleishman, Cornell University.
Bruce Gill, Carleton University.
Debra Hoffmaster, Texas Technological University.
Theo Jacobs, Wageningen University, The Netherlands. Kenneth Morgan, University of California at Los Angeles. Patricia Parker, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. William Pfitsch, University of Washington.
Gordon Rodda, Cornell University.
Jane Sherfy, University of California, Berkeley.
Jill Trainer, University of Michigan.
Carol Todzia, University of Texas at Austin.
Gayle VendeKerchove, University of Florida.
Jason Weintraub, Harvard University.
Lani West, Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford University. Rolf Zell, Ruhr University, Bochum.
Educational Outreach Fund
Peggy Brodfuerhrer, De Pauw University.
Steve Gaines, Oregon State University.
Alan Herre, University of Chicago.
Noel Holbrook, Harvard University.
Luis Ibafiez, Universidad de Panama.
Julio Jaén, Universidad de Panama.
Anthony Lent, Tufts University.
Stephen Mulkey, University of Pennsylvania.
Francis Ratnieks, New University of Ulster, Northern Ireland. Rebecca Schad, Warren Wilson College.
David Snyderman, Alfred University.
Alex Villareal, Universidad Santa Maria La Antigua, Panama.
EXXON Corporation
Rafael Araujo, Universidad de Panama.
Victoria Batista, Universidad de Bogota, Colombia.
Diana Botello, Universidad de Panama.
Orlando Castillo, Universidad de Panama.
Priya Davidar, University of Bombay.
Wilson Devia, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogota.
Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 389

<<<Page: 405>>>

Sig] Dorugl, University of Papua, New Guinea.
Raghavendra Gadagkar, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India. Milton Garcia, Universidad de Panama.
Rigoberto Gonzalez, Universidad de Panama.
Nilka Grant, Universidad de Panama.
Maria Dolores Heredia, Universidad de Sevilla.
Marta Lucia Martinez, Universidad del Valle, Cali.
Rodolfo Mendoza, Universidad de Panama.
J. Enrique Moreno, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogota.
Dayra Mosley, Universidad de Panama.
Beatriz de Pacheco, Universidad Nacional de la Plata.
German Parra, Instituto Valleucano de Investigaciones Cientificas, Cali. Elia Sandoval, Universidad de Panama.
Frank Solis, Universidad de Panama.
Eduardo Valdéz, Universidad de Panama.
Luis Carlos Zamora, Universidad de Panama.
390 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 406>>>

APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1981
Esin Atil. Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks. 256 pages, 158 color and 20 black-and-white illustrations, 1 map. June 22, 1981. Cloth: $47.50; paper: $19.95.
. Kalila wa Dimna: Fables from a Fourteenth-Century Arabic Manuscript. 95 pages, 26 color and 78 black-and-white illustrations. July 13, 1981. Cloth $17.50; paper: $9.95.
Walter J. Boyne. Messerschmitt Me 262: Arrow to the Future. vii + 188 pages, 8 color and 160 black-and-white illustrations. December 20, 1980. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $9.95.
M. L. Brown. Firearms in Colonial America: The Impact on History and Technology 1492-1792. 448 pages, 376 black-and-white illustrations. January 26, 1981. Cloth: $45.00.
Steven R. Dorr. Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C. for Middle Eastern Studies. (Seventh Guide in the series.) xiii + 540 pages. September 28, 1981. Cloth: $27.50; paper: $12.50.
Herbert Friedmann. A Bestiary for Saint Jerome: Animal Symbolism in European Religious Art. 378 pages, 6 color and 201 black-and-white illustrations. July 7, 1980. Cloth: $35.00.
Paul A. Hanle and Von Del Chamberlain, editors. Space Science Comes of Age: Perspectives in the History of the Space Sciences. xiii + 194 pages, 70 black-and-white illustrations, 28 figures. March 20, 1981. Cloth: $22.50; paper: $12.50.
Mary Henderson. Famous Personalities of Flight Cookbook. 136 pages, 35 black-and-white illustrations. February 23, 1981. Paper: $4.95.
Curtis M. Hinsley, Jr. Savages and Scientists: The Smithsonian Institution and the Development of American Anthropology 1846-1910. 319 pages, 22 blackand-white illustrations. May 25, 1981. Cloth: $19.95.
Klaus Honnef, Joshua Taylor, and Gregory A. Vitiello. Eisenstaedt: Germany. (Co-published with Harry N. Abrams, New York) xvi + 96 pages, 94 blackand-white illustrations. October 30, 1980. Paper: $12.50.
Warren B. King, compiler. Endangered Birds of the World: The ICBP Bird Red Data Book. (Reprinted text of Volume II, Aves, published in two parts in 1978 and 1979 by Iven Morges, Switzerland.) 624 pages. June 22, 1981. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $8.95.
Nathan Reingold, editor. The Papers of Joseph Henry, Volume 4: The Prince-
ton Years, January 1838-1840. xxxiv + 475 pages, 279 line drawings. January 17, 1981. Cloth: $30.00.
Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 391

<<<Page: 407>>>

Hans Syz, J. Jefferson Miller II, and Rainer Riickert. Catalogue of the Hans Syz Collection, Volume I: Meissen Porcelain and Hausmalerei. 607 pages, 37 color and 485 black-and-white illustrations. July, 1981. Cloth: $80.00.
Herman Viola. Diplomats in Buckskins: A History of Indian Delegations in Washington City. 233 pages, 58 black-and-white illustrations. May 18, 1981. Cloth: $17.50.
John H. White, Jr. The John Bull: 150 Years a Locomotive. 136 pages, 73 black-and-white illustrations. September 15, 1981. Paper: $6.95.
Walter J. Boyne and Donald S. Lopez, editors. The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation. Second printing. 1981. vii + 190 pages, 213 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $8.95.
Adelyn Dohme Breeskin. Mary Cassatt: A Catalogue Raisonné of the Graphic Work. Second printing. 1981. 189 pages, 12 color and 264 black-andwhite illustrations. Cloth: $40.00.
Allan A. Hodges and Carol A. Hodges, editors. Washington on Foot. Second edition. Second printing. 1981. 202 pages, 124 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $4.25.
Margaret Brown Klapthor. The First Ladies Hall. Fourth printing. 1981. 24 pages, 9 color and 48 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $2.95.
Bernice Johnson Reagon. We'll Never Turn Back. 75 pages, 142 black-andwhite illustrations. February 1, 1980. Distributed for the Smithsonian Institution’s Division of Performing Arts, Washington, D.C. Paper: $7.95.
Constance M. Grieff. John Notman, Architect. 253 pages, 197 black-and-white illustrations. 1979. Distributed for the Athenaeum, Philadelphia. Paper: $20.00.
G. Levy and P. Amitai. Scorpiones: Arachnida I, Fauna Palaestina Series, Volume three. 132 pages, 102 figures, 1 plate, 1 map. 1980. Distributed for the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, Jerusalem. Cloth: $22.50.
Susan M. Nicholson. Catalogue of the Prehistoric Metalwork in Merseyside County Museums. 148 pages, 379 line drawings, 2 maps. 1980. Distributed for the Department of Prehistoric Archaeology at the University of Liverpool. Paper: $12.50.
S. Dillon Ripley. A Naturalist’s Adventure in Nepal: Search for the Spiny Babbler. Published in 1952 by Ratna Pustak Bhandar, Nepal. Reprinted 1978. Second printing 1981. 301 pages, 18 plates, 1 map. Cloth: $12.50.
Oskar Theodor. Diptera: Asilidae, Fauna Palaestina Series, Volume Two. 458 pages, 865 figures, 1 plate, 1 map. 1980. Distributed for the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, Jerusalem. Cloth: $22.50.
ANNUAL REPORTS Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, Annual Report, 1980. 16 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. August 25, 1981.
Office of Membership and Development. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution, 1980. 104 pages. September 30, 1981.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Annual Report, 1979. 27 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. June 30, 1981.
392 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 408>>>

Smithsonian Year, 1980. viii + 586 pages, 66 black-and-white illustrations. April 27, 1981.
Smithsonian Year, 1980. Statement by the Secretary. vi + 69 black-and-white illustrations. April 27, 1981.
Freer Gallery of Art Milo Cleveland Beach. The Imperial Image: Paintings for the Mughal Court. 237 pages, 24 color and 182 black-and-white illustrations. September 23, 1981. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Miranda McClintic. Directions 1981. 80 pages, 11 color and 39 black-and-white illustrations. February 11, 1981.
Phyllis Rosenzweig. Larry Rivers: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection. 48 pages, 6 color and 50 black-and-white illustrations. July 9, 1981.
Joseph Shannon. R. B. Kitaj. 174 pages, 16 color and 86 black-and-white illustrations. September 16, 1981. National Museum of American Art
The Animal Image: Contemporary Objects and the Beast. Preface and essay by Michael Monroe. 48 pages, 5 color and 40 black-and-white illustrations. September 16, 1981.
East and West: Painting/Poems by Sheila Isham. 40 pages, 5 color and 20 black-and-white illustrations. January 1, 1981.
The World of David Gilmour Blythe (1815-1865). Monograph and essay by Bruce W. Chambers. 216 pages, 6 color and 175 black-and-white illustrations. October 1, 1980.
National Museum of American History
Elizabeth Harris. In Touch: Printing and Writing for the Blind in the 19th Century. 31 pages, 10 black-and-white illustrations. April 21, 1981.
Deborah Warner. Perfect in Her Place. 22 pages, 33 black-and-white illustrations. August 30, 1981.
National Portrait Gallery
Dorinda Evans. Benjamin West and His American Students. 203 pages, 8 color and 148 black-and-white illustrations. October 9, 1980.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Adelyn Dohme Breeskin. Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art. 64 pages, 9 color and 40 black-and-white illustrations. February 20, 1981.
Ricardo Muratorio. A Feast of Color: Corpus Christi Dance Costumes of Ecuador. 32 pages, 8 color and 93 black-and-white illustrations. February 11, 1981.
National Museum of American Art. The World of David Gilmour Blythe (1815-1865). 13 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. October 9, 1980.
Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 393

<<<Page: 409>>>

. Jacob Kainen: Prints, A Retrospective. (Supplement to “Checklist of Prints” in Jacob Kainen: Prints, A Retrospective.) 3 pages, 11 black-and-white illustrations. November 17, 1980.
. Art for All: American Print Publishing Between the Wars. 16 pages, 11 black-and-white illustrations. December 17, 1980.
. Seventh Biennial Graphics Exhibition: High School Graphics VII. 32 pages, 25 black-and-white illustrations. December 17, 1980.
. An American Perspective: Selections from the Bequest of Frank McClure. 12 pages, 12 black-and-white illustrations. May 12, 1981.
. The Print in the United States from the 18th Century to the Present. 22 pages, 14 black-and-white illustrations. September 28, 1981.
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum Louise Daniel Hutchinson. Anna J. Cooper: A Voice From the South. 207 pages, 210 black-and-white illustrations. August 27, 1981.
National Air and Space Museum Claudia M. Oakes. Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum. 166 pages, 324 black-and-white illustrations. March 1, 1981.
National Museum of American History Sami K. Hamarneh and Ernst W. Stieb. Pharmacy Museums and Historical Collections on Public View in the United States and Canada. 144 pages, 25 black-and-white illustrations. December 30, 1980.
National Museum of Natural History Roger Pasquier. Conservation of New World Parrots. 485 pages, 9 black-andwhite illustrations. September 18, 1981.
Radiation Biology Laboratory William H. Klein and Bernard Goldberg. Solar Radiation Measurements: 1978-1979. 56 pages. December 1, 1980.
Smithsonian Institution
Official Guide to the Smithsonian. 144 pages, 165 color and 17 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. January 30, 1981.
Freer Gallery of Art. The Whistler Peacock Room. 32 pages, 1 color and 14 black-and-white illustrations. October 17, 1980.
National Museum Act Programs. National Museum Act Grant Guidelines. 24 pages. July 1, 1981.
National Museum of American Art. Docent Handbook. 20 pages, 2 black-andwhite illustrations. August 1, 1981.
. Program of Memorial Service for Joshua C. Taylor. 15 pages, 1 blackand-white illustration. May 18, 1981.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: Learning Opportunities for Schools. 39 pages, 54 black-and-white illustrations. July 31, 1981.
394 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 410>>>

Office of Membership and Development. James Smithson Society Fifth Annual Dinner. 37 pages. September 17, 1981.
. James Smithson Society Invitation Booklet. 7 pages. July 1, 1981.
Office of Fellowships and Grants. Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study. 146 pages. September 27, 1981.
Office of Public Affairs. Smithsonian Institution—Welcome. 19 pages, 15 black-and-white illustrations. October 5, 1981.
Visitors Information and Reception Center. Planning Your Smithsonian Visit: National Associates. Third printing. 11 pages. April 1, 1981.
. Planning Your Smithsonian Visit: Public Information. Second printing. 14 pages. February 1, 1981.
FOLDERS Freer Gallery of Art. The Freer Gallery of Art. Reprint. December 28, 1980. Second reprint. September 30, 1981. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Directions 1981. February 11, 1981. National Museum of American Art. Barney Studio House. September 23, 1981. — . Barney Studio House Program II. June 8, 1981. —. Barney Studio House Program III. June 8, 1981. —. An Evening at Barney Studio House. May 12, 1981. —.. National Museum of American Art Gallery Guide. May 1, 1981.
. National Museum of American Art, General Information. June 29, 1981.
. Inventory of American Paintings Executed before 1917. June 1, 1981.
Late Nineteenth-Century American Architecture. (University of Delaere / NMAA Symposium registration and program) March 16, 1981.
National Museum of Natural History. The National Anthropological Archives. March 30, 1981.
National Portrait Gallery. The National Portrait Gallery. May 19, 1981.
Office of Contributing Membership. Funds Given in Support of the Smithsonian Go Far Beyond the Mall .... November 3, 1980.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Readers’ Survey and Principals’ Survey for ‘‘Let’s Go.”” January 1, 1981.
Office of Symposia and Seminars. The Muses Flee Hitler: Program II. December 22, 1980.
Radiation Biology Laboratory. Radiation Biology Laboratory. May 1, 1981. Renwick Gallery. 1980-1981 Craft Lectures at the Renwick Gallery. December 20, 1980.
Freer Gallery of Art. Ancient Chinese Jade. Revised, reprint. June 30, 1981. . Chinese Buddhist Sculpture. November 6, 1980. Reprinted July 31,
1981.
. Freer Gallery of Art General Information. Reprint. August 8, 1981.
Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 395

<<<Page: 411>>>

. The Imperial Image: Paintings for the Mughal Court. September 23,
1981.
. Islamic Calligraphy and Illumination. Revised reprint. April 1, 1981. Reprinted June 1, 1981. Reprinted July 31, 1981.
. Islamic Ceramics. Reprint. February 9, 1981. Revised, reprint September 1, 1981.
. Japanese Screens. Revised, reprint. January 1, 1981. Office of Public Affairs. Holiday at the Smithsonian. May 29, 1981.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Renaissance of Islam: Thematic Tours. May 30, 1981.
INVITATIONS Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. Anna J. Cooper: A Voice From the South. December 15, 1980.
Freer Gallery of Art. Chinese Painting in the Taoist Tradition. November 18, 1980.
. Lecture series. Four Popular Beauties of the ‘Floating World’: Osen, Ofuji, Ohisa and Okita. December 9, 1980.
. Lecture series. The Self Portrait by Sesson. September 1, 1981.
. Lecture series. Mughal Paintings for Akbar the Great. September 1,
1981.
. Lecture series. Persian and Mughal Influences on 17th and 18th Century Thai Art. September 1, 1981.
. The Imperial Image: Paintings for the Mughal Court. September 20, 1981.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Directions 1981. January 7, 1981.
National Museum of American Art. East and West: Painting/Poems by Sheila Isham. January 5, 1980.
—. Pictures at an Exhibition: Wednesday Lecture Series. October 20, 1980. ——.. Jan Matulka. 1890-1972. November 18, 1980.
—. High School Graphics VII. April 15, 1981.
—. George Catlin: The Artist and the American Indian. May 15, 1981. —-—.. Venini Glass. August 20, 1981.
—. More Than Land or Sky: Art From Appalachia. September 23, 1981.
. Wednesdays at the National Museum of American Art. September 28, 1981.
Office of Contributing Membership. Education for the Office of Citizen: Whose Responsibility? November 3, 1980.
. The Search for Alexander. November 7, 1980. . The Renwick Waltz. January 1, 1981.
. Collectors’ Tours: Concert of Selections from Handel's Concerti Grossi—Opus 3. January 2, 1981.
. Collectors’ Evening. An Evening in the Hall of Gems. April 30, 1981. . 5,000 Years of Korean Art. August 8, 1981.
396 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 412>>>

Office of Membership and Development. An Evening to Honor John Phipps. August 28, 1981.
Office of Symposia and Seminars. The Muses Flee Hitler, II: Cultural Adaptations in Worldwide Perspective. November 7, 1980.
Renwick Gallery. American Porcelain: New Expressions in an Ancient Art. October 14, 1980.
Smithsonian Institution Press. Diplomats in Buckskins. April, 1981. POSTERS
Office of Fellowships and Grants. Smithsonian Fellowships. September 1, 1981. Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art. January 20, 1981.
MISCELLANEOUS National Museum of American Art. Questions and Comments. Revised. Card. February 25, 1981.
. Joshua C. Taylor Research Fellowship Fund. Announcement and response card. July 1, 1981.
Office of Contributing Membership. Smithsonian Institution National Associates Program. Card. May 4, 1981.
Office of Membership and Development. James Smithson Society Annual Membership Renewal Card. Card. December 18, 1981.
29. Douglas H. Ubelaker. “The Ayalan Cemetery: A Late Integration Period Burial Site on the South Coast of Ecuador.” ix + 175 pages, figures, 170 tables. April 7, 1981.
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY 46. F. Raymond Fosberg and Marie-Héleéne Sachet. ‘Flora of Micronesia, 4: Caprifoliaceae-Compositae.” iii + 71 pages, 1 figure. November 25, 1980.
47. F. Raymond Fosberg and Marie-Héléne Sachet. ‘Polynesian Plant Studies 6-18.” iii + 38 pages, 6 figures. April 21, 1981.
49. Patricia G. Palmer and Alice E. Tucker. ““A Scanning Electron Microscope Survey of the Epidermis of East African Grasses, I.” iv + 84 pages, 9 figures, 48 plates. July 10, 1981.
7. Marjorie L. Reaka and Raymond B. Manning. “The Distributional Ecology and Zoogeographical Relationships of Stomatopod Crustacea from Pacific Costa Rica.” iii + 29 pages, 4 tables. October 7, 1980.
39. Porter M. Kier. “The Echinoids of the Middle Eocene Warley Hill Formation, Santee Limestone, and Castle Hayne Limestone of North and South Carolina.” iv +102 pages, 26 figures, 22 plates, 4 tables. November 6, 1980.
Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 397

<<<Page: 413>>>

294. Florence A. Ruhoff. “Index to the Species of Mollusca Introduced in 1850-1870.” iii + 640 pages. December 9, 1980.
306. Raymond B. Manning and L. B. Holthuis. “West African Brachyuran Crabs (Crustacea: Decapoda).” xii + 379 pages, 88 figures. May 4, 1981.
310. Paul D. Hurd, Jr., Wallace E. LaBerge, and E. Gorton Linsley. “Principal Sunflower Bees of North America with Emphasis on the Southwestern United States (Hymenoptera: Apoidea).” iii + 158 pages, frontispiece, 11 figures, 5 plates, 17 tables. November 4, 1980.
314. John B. Heppner and W. Donald Duckworth. “Classification of the Superfamily Sesioidea (Lepidoptera: Ditrysia).” iii + 144 pages, 107 figures, 1 table. August 7, 1981.
322. Froeschner, Richard C. “Heteroptera or True Bugs of Ecuador: A Partial Catalog.” iv + 147 pages. August 7, 1981.
324. James F. Lynch. “Patterns of Ontogenetic and Geographic Variation in the Black Salamander, Aneides flavipunctatus (Caudata: Plethodontidae).” iii + 53 pages, frontispiece, 19 figures, 14 tables. June 4, 1981.
325. Wayne N. Mathis and Willis W. Wirth. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), IV: Revision of the Australian Species of Subgenus Neoscatella Malloch.” iii + 27 pages, 46 figures, 1 table. January 21, 1981.
326. Arthur H. Clarke. “The Tribe Alasmidontini (Unionidae: Anodontinae), Part I: Pegias, Alasmidonta, and Arcidens.” iii + 101 pages, 32 figures, 24 tables. May 22, 1981.
328. Thomas R. Waller. “Functional Morphology and Development of Veliger Larvae of the European Oyster, Ostrea edulis Linné.” iii + 70 pages, 152 figures, 1 table. February 10, 1981.
329. Wayne N. Mathis and Karl W. Simpson. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), V: The Genera Cirrula Cresson and Dimecoenia Cresson in North America.” iii + 51 pages, 119 figures. June 29, 1981.
330. Oliver S. Flint, Jr. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXVIII: The Trichoptera of the Rio Limén Basin, Venezuela.” v + 61 pages, 169 figures, 1 table. April 28, 1981.
331. Louis S. Kornicker. “Benthic Marine Cypridinoidea from Bermuda (Ostracoda).” iii + 15 pages, 10 figures. July 10, 1981.
332. Louis S. Kornicker. “A Restudy of the Ostracode Genus Pleoschisma Brady, 1890 (Myodocopina).” iii + 16 pages, 5 figures. June 8, 1981.
333. Paul A. Opler and Donald Davis. “The Leafmining Moths of the Genus
Cameraria Associated with Fagaceae in California (Lepidoptera: Gracillariidae).” iii + 58 pages, 131 figures, 9 maps, 2 tables. September 11, 1981.
334. Louis S. Kornicker and Brad Myers. “Rutidermatidae of Southern California (Ostracoda: Myodocopina).” iii + 35 pages, 20 figures. September 8, 1981.
337. Storrs L. Olson and David W. Steadman. “The Relationships of the Pedionomidae (Aves: Charadriiformes).” iii + 25 pages, 13 figures. July 15, 1981.
4. Howard S. Wolko. “In the Cause of Flight: Technologists of Aeronautics and Astronautics.” iii + 121 pages. June 25, 1981.
398 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 414>>>

APPENDIX 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1981
Publications are by staff members, research associates, and collaborating scientists.
Balling, J. D. Exploring the Psychological Bay. Published by the Chesapeake Bay User’s Ethic Project sponsored by the Citizens Program for the Chesapeake Bay, Inc., 1981.
Balling, J. D., and Falk, J. H. “A Perspective on Trips: Environmental Effects on Learning.” Curator, 1981.
. “Development of Visual Preference for Natural Environments.” Environment and Behavior, 1981.
Correll, David L., and Dixon, D. “Relationship of Nitrogen Discharge to Land Use on Rhode River Watersheds.” Agro-Ecosystems 6, (1980) :147—59.
. “Eutrophication Trends in the Water Quality of the Rhode River.” In
The Effects of Excessive Nutrient Enrichment in Estuaries. Humana Press,
1981.
. “Endangered Estuarine Receiving Waters; the Effects of Low-Flow
Runoff on Headwaters Biota.’” In Proceedings of the International Sympo-
sium on Freshwater Inflow to Estuaries. San Antonio, Texas: U.S. Fish
Wildlife Service, 1981.
. “N and P in Soils and Runoff of Three Coastal Plain Land Uses. In
Nutrient Cycling in Agricultural Ecosystems, eds. R. Todd, R. Leonard, and
L. Asmussen. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Ann Arbor Science Publishers, 1981.
. “Nutrient Mass Balances Between the Watershed, Headwaters Intertidal Zone, and Basin of the Rhode River Estuary.” Limn. Ocean.
Falk, John H. ‘Taking Advantage of Local Resources—Lawns, a Case in Point.” The American Biology Teacher 42(6)(1980) :351-52.
. “The Primary Productivity of a Temperate Zone Lawn.” Journal of
Applied Ecology 17(1980) :689—96.
. “Children in Museums: The Role of Research.” In Proceedings of
Children in Museums: An International Symposium, ed. J. Glaser. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
. “Career Education and Environmental Careers: Response from an Environmental Research Institute.” Journal of the Graduate School, University of the District of Columbia, 1981.
Faust, Maria A., and Chrost, R. J. “Photosynthesis, Extracellular Release and Heterotrophy of Dissolved Organic Matter in Rhode River Estuarine Plankton.” In International Symposium on the Effects of Nutrient Enrichment in Estuaries, ed. B. Neilson. The Humana Press Incorporated, 1981.
. “Organic Carbon Release by Phytoplankton: Its Composition and
Utilization by Bacterioplankton.” In Primary Productivity in the Sea, ed.
P. G. Falkowski. Environmental Science Research 19(1980) :508-9.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 399

<<<Page: 415>>>

Hanken, J.; Lynch, J. F.; and Wake, D. B. “Salamander Invasion of the Tropics.” Natural History 89(1980) :46—53.
Hines, A. H. “Patterns of Reproductive Effort in Brackyuran Crabs.” American Zoologist 20(1980) :781.
Hines, A. H., and Loughton, T. R. “Observations of Sea Otters Digging for Clams at Monterey Harbor, California.” Fishery Bulletin, U.S. 78(1980): 159-63.
Lynch, J. F.; Balinsky, E. C.; and Vail, S. G. “Foraging Pattern in Three Sympatric Forest Ant Species, Prenolepis imparis (Say), Paratrechina melander (Wheller), and Aphaenogaster rudis (Emery) Hymenoptera: Formicidae).” Ecol. Entomol 5(1980) :353-71.
. “Seasonal, Successiona!, and Vertical Segregation in a Maryland Ant
Community.” Oikos 37(1981) :183—98.
. “Bird Populations—A Litnus Test of the Environment (Proceedings of
the Mid-Atlantic Natural History Symposium). Atl. Nat. 33(1980) :1—40.
. “Patterns of Ontogenetic and Geographic Variation in the Black Salamander, Aneides flavipunctatus (Candada: Plethodontidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 324. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Martin, W. W.; Falk, J. H.; and Balling, J. D. “Environmental Effects on Learning: The Outdoor Field Trip.” Science Education 65(3) (1981) :301-9. Riedman, M. L.; Hines, A. H.; and Pearse, J. S. “Spatial Segregation of Four Species of Tegula (Mollusca, Gastropoda) in Central California.” The
Veliger 24(1981).
Whigham, D. F. “Using Freshwater Wetlands for Wastewater Management— A Synthesis of North America Research.” In Proceedings of the First International Wetlands Conference, ed. B. Gopol. Jaspin, India: International Scientific Publications, 1981.
Whigham, D. F.; O’Neill, J.; and McWethy, M. “Ecological Implications of Manipulating Coastal Wetlands for Purposes of Mosquito Control.” In Proceedings of the First International Wetlands Conference, ed. B. Gopol. Jaspin, India: International Scientific Publications, 1981.
. “An Outside Perspective on the Pocosin Conference and Suggestions for Future Work.” In Pocosin Wetlands: An Integrated Analysis of Coastal Plain Freshwater Bogs in North Carolina, ed. C. J. Richardson, pp. 345-56. Stroudsburg, Penna: Hutchinson, Ross Publications Co., 1981.
Whitcomb, R. F.; Robbins, C. $.; Lynch, J. F.; Whitcomb, B. L.; Klimkiewics, M. K.; and Bystrak, D. B. “Effects of Forest Fragmentation on Avifauna of the Eastern Deciduous Forest.” In Forest Island Dynamics in Man-Dominated Landscapes, eds. R. L. Burgess and D. M. Sharpe, pp. 125-206. New York: Springer Verlag, 1981.
Andryszak, B. L., and Gore, R. H. “The Complete Larval Development in the Laboratory of Micropanope sculptipes Stimpson, 1871 (Crustacea, Decapoda, Xanthidae) with a Comparison of Larval Characters in Western Atlantic Xanthid Genera.” Fishery Bulletin 79(3) (1981) :487—506.
Gore, R. H. “Three New Shrimps and Some Interesting New Records of Decapod Crustacea from a Deep-Water Coral Reef in the Florida Keys.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(1)(1981) :135—62.
Gore, R. H.; Gallaher, E. E.; Scotto, L. E.; and Wilson, K. A. “Studies on Decaprod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of Florida. XI. Community Composition, Structure, Biomass and Species-Areal Relationships of Seagrass and Drift Algae-Associated Macrocrustaceans.” Estuarine Coastal and Shelf Science 12(1981) :485—508.
400 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 416>>>

Gore, R. H., and Van Dover, C. L. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian Riven region of Florida. XIX. Larval Development in the Laboratory of Lepidopa richmondi Benedict, 1903, with Notes on Larvae of American Species in the Genus (Anomura: Albuneidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1980) :1016—34.
fore, R. H.; Van Dover, C. L.; and Factor, J. R. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of Florida. XVIII. Rediscovery of Periclimenes (Periclimenes) pandionis Holthuis, 1951 (Caridea: Palaemonidae) with Notes on the Males and Zoeal Larvae.” Crustaceana 40(3) (1981) :253-65.
Gore, R. H.; Van Dover, C. L.; and Wilson, K. A. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of Florida. XX. Micropanope bardadensis (Rathbun, 1921): The Complete Larval Development under Laboratory Conditions (Brachyura, Xanthidae). Journal of Crustacean Biology 1(1)(1981) :28—50.
Kensley, Brian, and Gore, R. H. “Coralaxius abelei Genus et Species Novum (Crustacea Decapoda: Thalassinidea; Axiidae), a Remarkable CoralInhabiting Shrimp from the Florida Keys and the Western Caribbean Sea.” Proceedings of The Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1981) :1277—-94.
Rice, M. E. “Larvae Adrift: Patterns and Problems in Life Histories of Sipunculans.” American Zoologist 21(3)(1981) :605—-19.
. “Sipuncula and Echiura.” In Intertidal Invertebrates of the California Coast, chapter 19. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1980.
Scotto, L. E., and Gore, R. H. “Larval Development under Laboratory Conditions of the Tropical Spider Crab Mithrax (Mithraculus) coryphe (Herbst, 1801) (Brachyura: Majidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :551—62.
Wilson, K. A., and Gore, R. H. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of Florida. XVII. Larval Stages of Plagusia depressa (Fabricius, 1775) Cultured under Laboratory Conditions (Brachyura: Grapsidae).” Bulletin of Marine Science 30(4) (1980) :776—-89.
Office of the Director
Bobowski, Rita C. “The Wright Stuff.” Smithsonian News Service, November 1980.
. “Shortest Day of the Year Was Celebrated by Our American Ances-
tors.” Smithsonian News Service, December 1980.
. “Theodore von Karman: From the Wright Brothers to John Glenn.”
Smithsonian News Service, May 1981.
. “Diffusing Knowledge—Air and Space Style.” American Education (June 1981) :13-17.
Boyne, Walter J. Messerschmitt Me 262: Arrow to the Future. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “The Swoose—A Survivor.” Winged Majesty, Pacific Northwest
Aviation Historical Society, Seattle, 1980.
. Boeing B52: A Documentary History. London: Jane’s Publishing
Company, 1981.
. “The Boeing B-47.”” Wings 11(4) (1981) :9-27.
Boyne, Walter J., and Lopez, Donald S., eds. The Jet Age: Forty Years of Jet Aviation. 1979. Reprint Washington City: National Air and Space Museum, 1981.
Chocheles, June B. “Complaining—Does It Get Results.” Smithsonian News Service, October 1980.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 401

<<<Page: 417>>>

Hinners, Noel W. “The Golden Age of Solar System Exploration.” In The New Solar System. Cambridge, Mass.: Cambridge University Press & Sky Publishing Corporation, 1981.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
Andre, C. G. “Regional Chemical Setting of the Apollo 16 Landing Site and the Importance of the Kent Plateau.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XII, pp. 22-24. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1981.
Chaikin, A. L.; Maxwell, T. A.; and El-Baz, F. “Temporal Changes in the Cerberus Region of Mars: Mariner 9 and Viking Comparison.” Icarus 45(1981) :167-78.
Craig, R. G.; Wolfe, R. W.; Hogt, B. R.; Schmidt, M. S.; Raymondi, M.; and Kaufman, K. “On the Reddening of Quartz Grains in Dune Sand.”
Workshop on Physics of Desertification, pp. 6—7. Trieste, Italy: International
Centre for Theoretical Physics, 1980.
. “A System of Advanced Cartographic Technology for Developing
Nations.” In Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Symposium on
Remote Sensing of the Environment, pp. 701-12. Ann Arbor: Environmental
Research Institute of Michigan, 1980.
. “The Viking Conquest of Mars.” Air and Space, 4(2)(1980).
. “Gilbert and the Moon.” In The Scientific Ideas of G. K. Gilbert: An
Assessment on the Occasion of the Centennial of the U. S. Geological
Survey (1879-1979), Geological Society of America Special Paper 183, pp.
69-80, 1980.
. “The Uweinat Desert of Egypt, Libya and Sudan: A Fertile
Field for Planetary Comparisons of Crater Forms.” In Lunar and Planetary
Science XII, pp. 251-53. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1981.
—. “Desert Builders Knew a Good Thing When They Saw It.” Smith-
sonian 12(1981) :116—22.
. “The Origins of the Desert.” EOS 6(1981) :269.
. “Remote Sensing of the Moon.” In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Inter-
national Symposium on Remote Sensing of the Environment, pp. 25-26. Ann
Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1981.
. Review of Science and Science Policy in the Arab World, by A. B.
Zahlan. The Middle East Journal 35(1981) :266—67.
. “Circular Feature Among Dunes of the Great Sand Sea, Egypt.” Science 213(1981) :439—40.
El-Baz, F., and Manent, L. S. ‘“Ridge-Rings on Mars.” Reports of Planetary Geology Program—1980, pp. 90-92. NASA TM-82385, 1980.
Gifford, A. W., and El-Baz, F. ““Thickness of Lunar Mare Flow Fronts.” The Moon and the Planets 24(1981) :391-98.
Hamdan, A. H., and El-Baz, F. “Grooved Terrain on Ganymede: Characteristics and Origin of Transverse Grooves.” EOS 62(1981) :318.
Maxwell, T. A., and Andre, C. G. “Evidence for the Lunar Big Backside Basin.”” In Papers Presented at the Conference on Multi-Ring Basins, pp. 121-23. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1980.
Department of Aeronautics
Crouch, Tom D. Charles A. Lindbergh: An American Life. 1977. Reprint Washington City: National Air and Space Museum, 1980.
. A Dream of Wings: Americans and the Airplane, 1875-1905. New
York: W. W. Norton, Inc. 1980.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 403

<<<Page: 418>>>

. “Chanute and the Dunes.” Singing Sands, Spring 1980.
. Review of The Rocket Team, by Frederick I. Ordway and Mitchell
Sharp, The Journal of American History 12(1980) :737-38.
. “The IAS: The Origins and Early Years of the Institute of the Aero-
nautical Sciences.” Astronautics and Aeronautics 5(1981) :82-86.
. “Lindbergh: An American Hero.” Air and Space 4(4)(1981).
. “The Origins of a Classic: Octave Chanute, A. M. Herring, and Their
Two-Surface Gliders of 1896-1897.” Bungee Cord (Spring 1981) :7—11.
. “91 Hours, 8 Minutes, 10 Seconds: Around the World with Howard
Hughes.” Air and Space 5(1)(1981).
. “The Search for the Solar Constant.” In Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1981.
Hardesty, Von D. A Bibliography of the Soviet Air Force in World War II. Washington, D.C.: Bolling Air Force Base Directorate of Soviet Affairs, 1980.
Lopez, Donald S. “Flying in the Movies.” Air and Space 4(4)(1981).
Meyer, Robert B. Aircraft Engines in Museums Around the World, Sections I and II. Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1980.
Mikesh, Robert C. “Albatros D.Va: German Fighter of World War I.” Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum, No. 4. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “NASM’s ‘Other Museum’.” Air and Space 4(2)(1980).
. “Zero Fighter.” In Janes’ All the World's Aircraft, p. 56. New York:
London/Crown, 1981.
. “Balloon War.” Frontier Magazine 4(1981).
. “Japanese Giants, Liz.” Wings 11(3)(1981).
. “Japanese Giants, Rita.” Airpower 11(4) (1981).
. Zero Fighter. Tokyo: Zokeisha Publications, Ltd., 1981.
ee ed
Oakes, Claudia M. “U.S. Women in Aviation Through 1939.” AIAA Student —
Journal 18(4)(1980—1981) :42—48.
. “U.S. Women in Aviation, the 1930s.” Air and Space 4(2)(1980).
. “Douglas World Cruisers.” Air and Space 4(3)(1981).
——. “Women Airforce Service Pilots.” Air and Space 4(3)(1981).
, compiler. Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. “Double Eagle II.” Air and Space 4(4)(1981).
——. “Women in Modern Aviation.” Air and Space 4(4)(1981).
. “Jerrie Mock and ‘The Spirit of Columbus’.” Air and Space 5(1)(1981).
Wolko, Howard S. “In the Cause of Flight: Technologists of Aeronautics and Astronautics.” Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space, No. 4. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Wooldridge, E. T. “Jet Aviation Gallery.” Air and Space 4(4)(1981).
Department of Space Science and Exploration
Chamberlain, Von Del. “Families of Stars.” Air and Space 4(2)(1980).
Chamberlain, Von Del, and Hanle, Paul A. “A Song for the Sun.” In Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1981.
. “The Milky Way: Silver River in the Summer Sky.” Air and Space
4(4) (1981).
. “The Skidi Pawnee Chart of the Heavens.” Sky & Telescope (July 1981).
DeVorkin, David H. “Community and Spectral Classification in Astrophysics: The Acceptance of E. C. Pickering’s System in 1910.” Isis 72(1981) :29—49.
. Review of Cosmos, by Carl Sagan. Sky & Telescope 61(1981) :536—37.
404 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 419>>>

DeVorkin, David H., and Weart, Spencer R. “Interviews as Sources for History of Modern Astronomy.” Isis 72(1981) :471—-77.
Hanle, Paul A., and Camberlain, Von Del, eds., Space Science Comes of Age, Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1981.
Joels, Kerry M. “Space Industrialization.” Air and Space 4(1)(1980).
. “Valuing in the Aerospace Classroom.” Aviation Space, Journal of
Aerospace Education (November/December 1980).
_ “Future of Telecommunications.” Monthly column in The Transponder, International Association of Satellite Users (June-September 1981).
Kennedy, Gregory P. “Freedom-7.” Air and Space 4(4)(1981).
. “Friendship-7.” Air and Space 5(1)(1981).
. “Space Shuttle—Looking Ahead.” Air and Space 5(1)(1981).
Winter, Frank H. “ars Founders—Where Are They Now?” Astronautics and Aeronautics 19(5)(19€0) :88—91.
Winter, Frank H., and Hallion, Richard P. “Out of the Past—An Aerospace Chronology.” Monthly column in Astronautics and Aeronautics (October 1980—June 1981).
_ “Fact—or Fiction? Frau im Mond vs. Apollo.” Air and Space 4(1)
(1980).
_ “Ducted Fan or the World’s First Jet Plane? The Coanda Claim Re-
Examined.” The Aeronautical Journal of the Royal Aeronautical Society,
(December 1980) : 408-16.
“Alfred Africano (1908-1980).” Space Chronicle—Journal of the
British Interplanetary Society 34(1)(1981) :23-26.
_ “Frau im Mond’ Fritz Lang’s Surprising, Silent Space Travel Classic.” Starlog 42(1981) :3.
Winter, Frank H.; Hallion, Richard P.; and van der Linden, Frank Robert. “Out of the Past—An Aerospace Chronology.” Monthly column in Astronautics and Aeronautics (July/August 1981—October 1981).
Division of Education Services
Wolfe, Janet K. “Viking Student Activity.” Air and Space 4(2)(1980). . “Message to the Stars.” Science and Children 18(7) (1981).
Division of Exhibits and Presentations
Callen, Thomas. “Astronomy Education on the National Mall.” Proceedings of IPS 1980 Conference, October 1980.
. “The Soaring Stars.” Ranger Rick’s Nature (April 1981).
. “Sasha’s Fireball.” Ranger Rick’s Nature (May 1981).
Henderson, Mary. Famous Personalities of Flight Cookbook. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
National Human Studies Film Center
Maloney, M. Michael; Dorjee, Ragpa; Schecter, Steven C.; Johnson, Barbara; and Sorenson, E. Richard. “Visual Data Records in Human Studies: Some Methodological Advantages.” In Contributions to German Anthropology, eds. M. Bogaart and H. Ketalaar. Edition Herodot: Gottingen, 1981.
Sorenson, E. Richard. “Aspects of Mbotgate Life Style.” In Research Reports, vol. 12, pp. 655-64. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1980.
Schecter, Steven C.; Dorjee, Ragpa; and Sorenson, E. Richard, Ladakh Village Morning, Produced by Dr. Gyatsho Tshering and Dr. E. Richard Sorenson.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 405

<<<Page: 420>>>

Dharmsala, India: Library of Tibetan Works and Archives; Washington,
D.C.: National Human Studies Film Center, 1981.
Dorjee, Ragpa; Maradol, Mathias; and Sorenson, E. Richard. Btsunchun, Produced by Dr. Gyatsho Tshering and Dr. E. Richard Sorenson. Dharmsala, India: Library of Tibetan Works and Archives; Washington, D.C.: National Human Studies Film Center, 1981.
Dorjee, Ragpa; Choyok Gamyang; and Sorenson, E. Richard. Heruka, produced by Dr. Gyatsho Tshering and Dr. E. Richard Sorenson. Dharmsala, India: Library of Tibetan Works and Archives; Washington, D.C.: National Human Studies Film Center, 1981.
Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies
Mortimer, Delores, and Bryce-Laporte, Roy S., eds. Caribbean and Latin American Immigrants to the United States. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Department of Anthropology
Angel, J. L.; Bisel, S.; and Dietz, S. “Det mykenske menneske” (The Mycenean People). Journal of Nationalmuseets (1980) :5-13. Denmark: Arbejdsmark.
Beeler, M. S., and Whistler, K. W. “Coyote, Hawk, Raven and Skunk: a Barbareno Chumash text.” In Coyote Stories II, ed. M. Kendall. IJ AL-Native American Texts Series 6(1980) :88—96.
Brooks, Alison S.; Crowell, A.; and Yellen, J. E. “Gi: A Stone Age Archaeological Site in the Northern Kalahari Desert Botswana.” In Proceedings of the Eighth Pan-African Congress of Prehistory and Quanternary Studies, Nairobi, September 5-10, 1979, pp. 304-9. Nairobi: Louis Leakey Memorial Institute for African Prehistory, 1980.
De Atley, Suzanne P. “Radiocarbon Dating of Ceramics: Progress and Prospects.” Radiocarbon 22(2,3) (1980).
De Atley, Suzanne P., and Findlow, F. J. “A New Obsidian Hydration Rate in the Greater Southwest.” North American Archaeologist 1(2)(1980) :139—44.
. “Regional Integration on the Northern Casas Grandes Frontier.” In Proceedings of the Mogollon Conference, ed. Patrick Bennet. Las Cruces, New Mexico: New Mexico State University, Cultural Resource Management Division, 1981.
Elmore, Nigel. “Register to the Papers of Henry Bascom Collins.” In Finding Aids to the National Anthropological Archives. Washington, D.C.: Smithson.an Institution Office of Printing and Photographic Services, 1981.
El-Najjar, M. Y.; Benitez, J.; Fry, G.; Lynn, G. E.; Ortner, D. J.; Reyman, T. A.; and Small, P. A. “Autopsies on two native american mummies.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 53(1980) :197—202.
Evans, Clifford, and Meggers, B. J. contributing eds. “Archaeology: South America.” Handbook of Latin American Studies 41(1980):68-106. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Ewers, John C. “Saddles of the Plains Indians.” In Man Made Mobile: Early Saddles of Western North America, ed. Richard E. Ahlborn, pp. 72-84 Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology 39. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “Comment upon a Mathematical Theory of Horse Adoption on the
North American Plains.” Plains Anthropologist 26(91) (1981) :84.
. “The Emergence of the Named Indian Artist in the American West.”
American Indian Art 6(2)(1981) :52—61,77.
406 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 421>>>

. “Pipes for the Presidents.” American Indian Art 6(3)(1981) :62—70.
. “Water Monsters in Plains Indian Art.” American Indian Art 6(4) (1981.)
Fitzhugh, William W. “Comments on Ideas about Prehistoric Societies: Gutorm Gjessing and Arctic Archaeology.” Norwegian Archaeological Review 13(2) (1980) :120—22.
. “Forward.” In Vermont’s Stone Chambers, by Giovanna Neudorfer,
pp. vi-xx. Vermont Historical Society, 1980.
. “Excavations at Rattlers Bight—A Late Maritime Archaic Settlement
and Cemetery in Hamilton Inlet, Labrador.” National Geographic Society
Research Reports 12(1980) :222-31.
. “Smithsonian Archaeological Surveys, Central and Northern Labrador, 1980.” In Archaeology in Newfoundland and Labrador: 1980, ed. Jane Thomson, pp. 26—47. Annual Report No. 1, Newfoundland Museum, Historic Resources Division, Government of Newfoundland and Labrador, 1981.
Fitzhugh, William W.; Hood, B.; and Sutton, D. “In Quest of Dorset Subsistence Strategies: 1980 Excavations at Okak-1 and No-Name Island, Labrador.” In Archaeology in Newfoundland and Labrador, 1980, ed. Jane Thomson, pp. 48-57. Annual Report No. 1, Newfoundland Museum, Historic Resources Division, Government of Newfoundland and Labrador, 1981.
Fitzhugh, W., and Selig, R. O. “The Smithsonian’s Alaskan Connection: 19th Century Explorers and Anthropologists.” The Alaskan Journal, 1981.
Fowler, Don D. “History of Anthropological Research in the Great Basin.” Journal of California and Great Basin Anthropology 2(1)(1980) :8—36.
. “The Great Basin.” In Encyclopedia of New World Deserts, ed. Gordon Bender, pp. 313-400. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press, 1980.
Gibson, Gordon D.; Larson, T. J.; and McGurk, Cecilia R. The Kavango Peoples (Frobenius-Institut, Studien zur Kulturkunde, 57.) Wiesbaden, West Germany: Franz Steiner, 1981.
Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “Massachusetts Phonology: A Preliminary Look.” In Papers of the Twelfth Algonquian Conference, ed. W. Cowan. Ottawa: Carleton University, 1981.
Haynes, Gary. “Evidence of Carnivore Gnawing on Pleistocene and Recent Mammalian Bones.” Paleobiology 6(3) (1980) :341-51.
Houchins, Chang-su. ‘Nichi-Bei no rekishi o musubu kakebashi Sumisonian korekushon (Smithsonian Collections as Bridges in Early U.S.Japan Relations).” Nettowaku 22(1980) :16-17. Tokyo.
Kaeppler, Adrienne. “ ‘Oceanic Art’ and ‘Bark Cloth’.” Academic American Encyclopedia, 1980.
. “Polynesian Music and Dance.” In Musics of Many Cultures, ed.
Elizabeth May, pp. 134-53. University of California Press, 1980.
. “Pacific Island: ‘Dance’ and ‘Tonga’. Grove’s Dictionary of Music and Musicians. London: MacMillan, 1980.
Koritzer, R. T., and St. Hoyme, L. E. “A Prehistoric Example of Severe Temporo-Mandibular Arthritic Change in the Presence of a Well-Balanced Dentition.” Dental Survey 56(9) (1981) :28-29.
. “Caries and Elemental Composition of the Rhodesian Man Dentition.” Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 70(2) (1981) :74-79.
Laughlin, Robert. “Notes from the Underground.” In Papers in Mayan Linguistics, ed. Laura Martin, pp. 15-49. Columbia, Missouri: Lucas Brothers Publishing, 1980.
Lazar, George, and Schulter-Ellis, F. P. “Intramedullary Structure of Human Metacarpals.” The Journal of Hand Surgery 5(5) (1980) :477-81.
Meggers, Betty J. “Did Japanese Fishermen Really Reach Ecuador 5,000 Years Ago?” Early Man 2(4)(1980) :15-19.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 407

<<<Page: 422>>>

Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford. “Un Método Ceramico para el Reconocimiento de Comunidas Pre-Histdéricas.” Boletin del Museo del Hombre Dominicano 9(14) (1980) :57—73.
Meggers, Betty J., and Maranca, Silvia. “Una Reconstituigao de Organiza — cao Social, Baseada na Distribuicdo de Tipos de Ceramica num Sitio © Habitacdo da Tradicdo Tupiguarani.” Pesquisas, Antropologia 31(1980): 227-47. Sao Leopoldo: Instituto Anchietano de Pesquisas. |
Merrill, William L. “The Concept of Soul Among the Raramuri of Chihuahua, Mexico: A Study in World View.” Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Anthropology, University of Michigan, 1981. Mt
Mills, Elaine L. “The Papers of John Peabody Harrington in the Smithsonian — Institution, 1907-1957.” Volume 1. A Guide to the Field Notes: Native American History, Language, and Culture of Alaska/Northwest Coast. Millwood, New York: Kraus Microform, 1981.
Ortner, D. J., and Utermohle, C. J. “Polyarticular Inflammatory Arthritis in — a Pre-Columbian Skeleton from Kodiak Island Alaska.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 54(1981) :260.
Sillen, Andrew. Strontium and Diet at Hayonim Cave, Israel. An Evaluation of the Strontium/Calcium Technique for Investigating Prehistoric Diets. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, 1981.
. “Strontium and Paleodietary Research.” Society for Archaeological
Sciences Newsletter 4(1981) :4.
. “Strontium and Diet at Hayonim Cave, Israel.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 56(1981) :2.
Smith, Bruce D. “The Archeological Survey.” In The Archeological Resources of Georgia, ed. Lewis H. Larson. Georgia Department of Natural Resources, 1981.
. “The Division of Mound Exploration of the Bureau of  Ethnology and the Birth of American Archeology.” Southeastern Archeological Conference Bulletin 24(1981).
St. Hoyme, L. E. “The Skull of Mangas Colorados.” S. I. Information Leaflet. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “Body Size As a Factor in Using Long Bone Proportions to Estimate Race and Sex.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 54(2) (1981) :272.
Stanford, D. ““Who’s on First?” Science 81 2(5)(1981) :91—92.
Stanford, D.; Bonnichsen, R.; and *Morland, R. “The Ginzberg Experiment. Modern and Prehistoric Evidence of a Bone-Flaking Technology.” Science 212(24) (1981) :438-39.
Stanford, D.; Wedel, W.; and Scott, G. “Archaeological Investigations of the Lamb Spring Site.” Southwestern Lore 47(1) (1981) :14—27.
Stewart, T. D. “Responses of the Human Skeleton to Change in the Quality of Life.” Journal of Forensic Sciences 25(4)(1980) :912—21.
. “Excavation of Protohistoric Arikara Indian Cemetery near Morbridge, South Dakota, 1971.”” National Geographic Society Research Reports 12(1980) :677-85.
Sturtevant, William C. “National Dress and Citizen Dress: What Indian Delegates Wore to Washington.” American Fabrics and Fashions 120(1980): 14-15.
. “Living with Art.” Living with Art in the Hyatt Regency Woodfield,
pp. 3-5. New York: Doric Publishing Co., Inc., 1981.
. “Royal Incest: A Bibliographic Note.” American Ethnologist 8(1) (1981) :186.
Sturtevant, William C., and *MacNair, Peter. “Kwakiutl Indian Potlatch and Museum Opening.” American Fabrics and Fashions 122(1981) :80—82.
Sutton, Douglas G. “A Culture History of the Chatham Islands.” Journal of the Polynesian Society 89(1) (1980) :67—93.
408 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 423>>>

. “Letter from Labrador.” N.Z.A.A. Newsletter 23(4) (1980) :259-64.
Sutton, Douglas G., and Campbell, H. J. “Patterns in the Prehistoric Distribution of Stone Resources in the Chatham Islands.” In Archaeological Studies of Pacific Stone Resoures, eds. B. F. Leach and J. Davidson. British Archaeological Reports (International Series) 104(1981) :209-23.
Sutton, D. G., and Marshall, Y. M. “Coastal Hunting Strategies in the Subantarctic Zone.” New Zealand Journal of Archaeology 2(1980) :28—50.
Sutton, D. G., and Phillips, C. “Construction of a Raised Rim Kumara Storage Pit.” N.Z.A.A. Newsletter, 1981.
Ubelaker, Douglas H. ‘Human Skeletal Remains from Site OGSE-80: A Preceramic site on the Sta. Elena Peninsula, Coastal Ecuador.” Journal of the Washington Academy of Science 70(1) (1980) :3—24.
. “Human Bones and Archeology.” Cultural Resource Management
Series. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1980.
. “Prehistoric Human Remains from the Cotocollao Site, Pichincha
Province, Ecuador.” Journal of the Washington Academy of Science 70(2)
(1980) :59-74.
. “The Ayalan Cemetery, A Late Integration Period Burial Site on the South Coast of Ecuador. Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology No. 29. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Van Beek, Gus W., and Van Beek, Ora. ““Canaanite-Phcenician Architecture: The Development and Distribution of Two Styles.” Eretz-Israel 15(1981): 70-77. Academic Press, Jerusalem.
Viola, Herman J. Diplomats in Buckskins: A History of Indian Delegations in Washington City. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. “Indians Braved Washington to See the ‘Great Father.’ Smithsonian (1981) :72-80.
Von Endt, D. W. ‘Protein Hydrolysis and Amino Acid Racemization in Sized Bone.” In Amino Acid Biogeochemistry, eds. P. E. Hare, T. Hoering, and K. King, pp. 297-304. New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1980.
Von Endt, D. W., and Hesse, B. C. “The Chemical Content of Archaeological Bone: Notes Toward the Measurement of Differential Attrition in Faunal Samples.” Proceedings of the Society for American Archeology (1981):111.
Wedel, Mildred Mott. ‘The Deer Creek Site, Oklahoma: A Wichita Village Sometimes called Ferdinandina, an Ethnohistorian’s View.” Oklahoma Historical Society, Series in Anthropology 5(1981). Oklahoma City.
Wedel, Mildred Mott, and DeMallie, Raymond J. “The Ethnohistorical Approach in Plains Area Studies.” In Anthropology on the Great Plains, eds. W. R. Wood and Margot Liberty, pp. 110-28. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1980.
Wedel, Waldo R. “Toward a History of Plains Archeology.’’ Great Plains Quarterly 1(1) (1981) :16-38.
Department of Botany
Ayensu, Edward S. “Assessment of Threatened Plant Species in the United States.” In Biological Aspects of Rare Plant Conservation, ed. H. Synge, pp. 19-58. New York: John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1981.
. “Evaluating Impacts on Endangered and Threatened Flora.” In Bio-
logical Evaluation of Environmental Impact, pp. 129-32. Proceedings of a
Symposium at the 1976 meeting of the Ecological Society of America and
American Institute of Biological Sciences. Washington, D.C.: Council on
Environmental Quality and Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of
Interior, 1980.
. “The Terrestrial Greenhouse.” In Fire of Life. The Smithsonian Book
of the Sun, pp. 134-41. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Exposition Books,
gS 1.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 409

<<<Page: 424>>>

Ayensu, Edward S., and DeFilipps, R. A. ‘Smithsonian Institution Endangered f Flora Computerized Information.” In Rare Plant Conservation: Geographical — Data Organization, eds. L. E. Morse and M. S. Henifin, pp. 111-22. Bronx, — New York: The New York Botanical Garden, 1981. r,
Bohlmann, F.; Abraham, W.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A New Labdane Derivative and Geranylphloroglucinols from Achyrocline alata.” Phytochemistry 19(11) (1980) :2475-77.
Bohlmann, F.; Abraham, W.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Thiophene Acetylenes and Flavanols from Pterocaulon virgatum.” Phytochemistry 20(4) (1981) :825—27.
BohImann, F.; Dhar, A. K.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Eudesmanolides from Dimerostemma lippioides.” Phytochemistry 20(4) (1981) :838-39.
Bohlmann, F.; Fritz, U.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. ‘“Sesquiterpene and Diterpene Derivatives from Solidago Species.” Phytochemistry 19(12) (1980): 2655-61.
Bohlmann, F.; Fritz, U.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Fourteen Heliangolides from Calea Species.” Phytochemistry 20(4) (1981) :743-49.
Bohlmann, F.; Grenz, M.; Gupta, R. K.; Dhar, A. K.; Ahmed, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. ““Eudesmane Derivatives from Verbesina Species.” Phytochemistry 19(11)(1980) :2391—97.
Bohlmann, F.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “A Clerodane Lactone and a Tremetone Derivative from Bahianthus viscidus.” Phytochemistry 20(2)(1981) :331—32.
Bohlmann, F.; Gupta, R. K.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Labdane Derivatives and a Himachalanolide from Acritopappus longifolius.” Phytochemistry 20(2)(1981) :275—-79.
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A Dithienylacetylene from Porophyllum ruderale.” Phytochemistry 19(12) (1980) :2760. Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Allenic Germacranolides, Bourbonene Derived Lactones and Other Con-
stituents from Vernonia Species.” Phytochemistry 20(3) (1981) :473-80.
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. ““Chromones and Flavans from Marshallia obovata.” Phytochemistry 19(8) (1980) :1815—20.
BohlImann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Diterpenes and Other Constituents of Morithamnus crassus.”” Phytochemistry 19(12) (1980): 2769-71.
. “Five Germacranolides from Gochnatia discoidea.” Phytochemistry 20(1) (1981) :109-12.
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Ahmed, M.; Grenz, M.; Suding, H.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Germacranolides and Diterpenes from Viguiera Species.” Phytochemistry 20(1) (1981) :113—16.
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Dhar, A. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Heliangolides and Diterpenes from Hartwrightia floridana.” Phytochemistry 20(4) (1981) :843—45.
Bohlmann, F.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Chemotaxonomy of the Genus Plagiocheilus.” Phytochemistry 19(10) (1980) : 2235-36.
Bohlmann, F.; Rosenberg, E.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Pseudoguaianolides from Wedelia grandiflora.” Phytochemistry 19(9)(1980) :2047—48.
Bohlmann, F.; Suding, H.; Cuatrecasas, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Tricyclic Sesquiterpenes and Further Diterpenes from Espeletiopsis Species.” Phytochemistry 19(11)(1980) :2399-2403.
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A Germacranolide from Mattfeldanthus nobilis.” Phytochemistry 19(11) (1980) :2473-74.
. “Caryophyllene Derivatives and a Heliangolide from Lychnophora
Species.” Phytochemistry 19(11)(1980) :2381-85.
410 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 425>>>

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Diterpenes and Tetranorditerpenes from Acritopappus Species.” Phytochemistry 19(12) (1980) :2695-2705.
BohImann, F.; Zdero, C.; Grenz, M.; Dhar, A. K.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Five Diterpenes and Other Constituents from Nine Baccharis Species.” Phytochemistry 20(2)(1981) :281—86.
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Germacranolides from Piptolepis ericoides and Vanillosmopsis Species.” Phytochemistry 20(4) (1981) :731-34.
. “Guaianolides from Agrianthus pungens.” Phytochemistry 19(8)
(1980) :1873-74.
. “152 Methylacryloyloxy-ent-kaurenic Acid from Ichthyothere Species.” Phytochemistry 20(3) (1981) :522—23.
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Sesquiterpene Lactones from Eremanthus Species.” Phytochemistry 19(12)(1980) :2663-68.
. “Seven Guaianolides from the Tribe Vernonieae.” Phytochemistry
19(12) (1980) :2669-73.
. “Two Hirsutinolides and a Germacranolide from Chresta sphaerocephala.” Phytochemistry 20(3)(1981) :518—-19.
Bohlmann, F. Ziesche, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Eudesmanolides and Diterpenes from Wedelia trilobata and ent-kaurenic Acid Derivative from Aspilia parvifolia.” Phytochemistry 20(4) (1981) :751-56.
BohImann, F.; Ziesche, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. ‘“Melampolides and Other Germacranolides from Blainvillea dichotoma.” Phytochemistry 20(2) (1981) :263-66.
. “Seven Furanoeremophilanes from Three Senecio Species.” Phytochemistry 19(12)(1980) :2675-79.
Bohlmann, F.; Ziesche, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Seven Germacranolides and Four Eudesmanolides from Tithonia rotundifolia.” Phytochemistry 20(2) (1981) :267-70.
Cowan, R. S. “Caesalpinioideae.” In Advances in Legume Systematics, eds. R. M. Polhill and P. H. Raven, pp. 57-64. London: Royal Botanic Gardens, 1981.
. “New Taxa of Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae from Bahia, Brazil.”
Brittonia 33(1)(1981) :9-14.
. “Gwartzieae.” In Advances in Legume Systematics, eds. R. M. Polhill and P. H. Raven, pp. 209-12. London: Royal Botanic Gardens, 1981.
Cowan, R. S., and Polhill, R. M. “Tribe 4. Detarieae’” and “Tribe 5. Amherstieae.” In Advances in Legume Systematics, eds. R. M. Polhill and P. H. Raven, pp. 117—42. London: Royal Botanic Gardens, 1981.
Cowan, R. S., and Stafleu, F. A. Taxonomic Literature, 2d ed., vol. 3. Utrecht, The Netherlands: Bohn, Scheltema and Holkema, 1981.
Cuatrecassas, J. “Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora XII.” Phytologia 47 (1)(1980) :1-13.
. “Un Nuevo Genero Colombiano de Senecioneae (Compositae).” Boletin Sociedad Argentina de Botanica 19(1—2) (1980) :13-17.
Eiseman, N. J., and Norris, J. N. “Dudresnaya patula sp. nov., An Unusual Deep Water Red Alga from Florida.” Journal of Phycology 17(2)(1981): 186-91.
Faden, R. B. “Peperomia poeppigii Miq.: A Purported Piperaceae Is a Species of Geogenanthus (Commelinaceae).”” Taxon 30(1)(1981) :33—35.
Faden, F. B., and Suda, Y. “Cytotaxonomy of Commelinaceae: Chromosome Numbers of Some African and Asiatic Species.” Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society 81(4)(1980) :301—25.
Farr, Ellen R., and Farr, David F. “(551)—(553) Proposals to Conserve or Reject
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 411

<<<Page: 426>>>

Hypholoma (Fr.) Kummer against Nematoloma Karsten or Psathyrella (Fr.) \ Quel. (Agaricales).” Taxon 30(1)(1981) :329-34.
Fosberg, F. R. “Flora of Micronesia 4: Caprifoliaceae-Compositae.” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 46. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. Coastal Ecosystems: A Review. United Nations Environment Report
no. 4. Nairobi: United Nations, 1980.
. Island Ecosystems: A Review. United Nations Environment Report
no. 3. Nairobi: United Nations, 1980.
. “The Names Published in Strickman’s Herbarium Amboinense or
Casuarina litorea L., a Valid Rumphiam Name.” Taxon 30(1981) :218—27.
. The Plant Ecosystem for Moenjodaro. Restricted Technical Report RP/1977—78/4.121.6. Paris: UNESCO, 1980.
Fosberg, F. R., and Dassanayake, M. D., eds. A Revised Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon, vol. I. New Delhi, India: Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 1980.
. A Revised Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon, vol. II. New Delhi, India: Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 1981.
Fosberg, F. R., and Macnae, W. “Rhizophoraceae.” In A Revised Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon, eds. F. R. Fosberg and M. D. Dassanayake, pp. 487-500. New Delhi, India: Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 1981.
Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. “A New Sciaphila (Triuridaceae) from Palau Islands.” Pacific Science 34(1) (1980) :25—27.
. “Polynesian Plant Studies 6-18.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Botany 47. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. “Typification of the Genus Ochrosia Jussieu.” In P. E. P. Deraniyagala Commemoration Volume, pp. 211-15. Colombo, Sri Lanka: 1980.
Hale, M. E. “Pseudocyphellae and Pored Epicortex in the Parmeliaceae: Their Delimitation and Evolutionary Significance.” Lichenologist 13(1) (1981) :1—-10.
King, R. M., and Robinson, H. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCI. Various new species for Brasil.’” Phytologia 46(5) (1980) :295—307.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCII. Validation of Sub-
tribes.” Phytologia 46(7) (1980) :446—50.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCIII. A New Genus
Teixeriranthus.” Phytologia 47(2)(1980) :108-9.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCIV. A New Genus
Parapiqueria.” Phytologia 47(2)(1980) :110-12.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCV. A New Genus
Cavalcantia.” Phytologia 47(2) (1980) :113—16.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCVI. A New Genus
Jaramilloa.” Phytologia 47(2)(1980) :117—20.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCVII. Three Additions
to Bartlettina.” Phytologia 47(2) (1980) :121-25.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CXCVIII. Reduction of the
Genus Kanimia.” Phytologia 47(2) (1980) :126—27.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CIC. A New Genus Mal-
meanthus.” Phytologia 47(3)(1980) :225-29.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CC. Additions to the Genus
Chromolaena.” Phytologia 47(3) (1980) :230—51.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCI. A New Genus Hugh-
esia.” Phytologia 47(3) (1980) :252-56.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCII. A New Genus Kaunia.” Phytologia 47(3)(1980) :257—60.
King, R. M., and Robinson, H. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCIII. A New Genus Bishopiella.” Phytologia 48(3) (1981) :218—20.
412 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 427>>>

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCIV. New Combinations
in Brasilian and Mexican Species.” Phytologia 48(3)(1981) :221—22.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCV. Two New Species of Mikania from Brasil.” Phytologia 48(3) (1981) :223-28.
Little, Elbert L., Jr. “Rare and Endemic Trees of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.” U.S. Department of Agriculture Conservation Research Report No. 27. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1980.
. “Atlas of United States Trees. Volume 6. Supplement.” U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture Miscellaneous Publication No. 1410. Washington, D.C.:
U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1981.
. “Forest Trees of Oklahoma.” Oklahoma Forestry Division, State Department of Agriculture, Publication No. 1, Rev'sed Edition No. 12. Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 1981.
Nicholson, Dan H. “Gender of Lysichiton Schott (Araceae).” Aroideana 4(1)(January 1981) :23—24.
. “Proposal to conserve the spelling Pseudelephantopus over Pseudo-
Elephantopus with a Commentary on ‘Plant Genera described by First
Lieutenant von Rohr with added remarks by Professor Vahl’ (1972).’’ Taxon
30(2) (May 1981) :489-96.
. “Proposal to Conserve Hapaline Schott (1858) over Hapale Schott
(1857) (Araceae).”” Taxon 30(2)(May 1981) :494-95.
. “Report of the Special Committee on Romanization of Authors’
Names from Non-Roman scripts.” Taxon 30(1)(February 1981) :168—83.
. “Summary of Ecological Information on Emilia and the Taxonomy of Four Pacific Taxa of Emilia (Asteraceae: Senecioneae).” Systematic Botany 5(4) (May 1981) :391—407.
Nicolson, Dan H., and Norris, J. N. “The Odious Problem of Generic Names Ending in idium and odium: Confusable under Article 75?” Taxon 30(2) (May 1981) :476-77.
Nicolson, Dan H., Sivadasan, M., and Steyermark, J. A. “Thymocarpus cannoides (Marantaceae), a New Genus and Species from Venezuela and Brazil.” Brittonia 33(1)(April 1981) :22—24.
Norris, J. N., and Johansen, H. W. “Articulated Coralline Algae of the Gulf of California, I: Amphiroa Lamouroux.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences 9. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Norris, J. N., and Towsend, R. A. “Algal Names and Article 39: Figuratively Speaking.” Taxon 30(2)(1981) :497-99.
Nowicke, Joan W., and Skvarla, John J. “Pollen Morphology and Phylogenetic Relationships of the Berberidaceae.” Smithsonian Institution Contributions to Botany 50. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Oliver, Royce L., and Skog, Laurence E. “Gesneriaceae.” In Chromosome Number Reports LXXI, ed. Askell Love. Taxon 30(1981) :506.
Reed, Clyde F., and Read, Robert W. “Two New Species of Bromeliads from Venezuela.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society 31(2)(March—April 1981): 59-60.
Robinson, H. “Episcothamnus and Bishopalea, Two New Genera of Vernonieae (Asteraceae) from Brazil, and the Resurrection of Sipolisia.” Phytologia 48(3) (1981) :209-17.
. “New Species of Vernonieae (Asteraceae) VII. Centratherum car-
denasii from Bolivia.” Phytologia 46(7) (1980) :443—45.
. “Re-establishment of the Genus Critoniopsis (Vernonieae). Phytologia
46(7) (1980) :437—42.
. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXV. A New Species of
Unxia.” Phytologia 46(5)(1980) :289-92.
. “Studies in the Senecioneae (Asteraceae). X. A New Species of
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 413

<<<Page: 428>>>

Senecio from Brasil.” Phytologia 46(5)(1980) :293—94.
. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXVI. New Species of
Ichthyothere.” Phytologia 47(2)(1980) :128—34.
. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXVII. A New Species of Calea from Brasil.” Phytologia 47(3) (1980) :261—64.
Robinson, H., and Bockeroth, J. R. “Dolichopodidae.” In Manual of Nearctic Diptera, eds. J. F. McAlpine, B. V. Peterson, G. E. Shevrell, H. J. Teskey, J. R. Vockeroth, and D. M. Wood, pp. 625-39. Research Branch Agriculture Canada Monograph 27. Ottawa: Department of Agriculture, 1981.
Robinson, H.; Bohlmann, F.; and King, R. M. “Chemosystematic Notes on the Asteraceae. III. Natural Subdivisions of the Vernonieae.” Phytologia 46(7) (1980) :421-36.
Robinson, H., and King, R. M. “Phytogeographical Patterns in the Tribe Eupatorieae (Asteraceae).” Boletin de la Sociedad Argentina de Botanica 19(1-2) (1980) :45—-52.
Sivadasan, M., and Nicolson, Dan H. “A New Species of Theriophonum BI. (Araceae) from India.” Aroideana 4(2)(May 1981) :64—67.
Skog, Laurence E. “Boea hygrometrica, A Chinese Immigrant.” The Gloxinian 31(2) (1981) :5.
. “Developments in Chinese Gesneriaceae II.” The Gloxinian 31(1)
(1981) :27-28.
. “Eponymy: Mu-O.” In Taxonomic Literature II, vol. 3 (Lh-O), eds.
FE. A. Staffeu and R. S. Cowan. Utrecht, The Netherlands: Bohn, Scheltema
and Holkema, 1981.
. “Exploring for Gesneriads around the World.” Toronto Gesneriad
Society Newsletter 5(1)(1981) :4—5,8.
. “Exploring for Gesneriads around the World, Part 2.” Toronto Ges-
neriad Society Newsletter 5(2) (1981) :7—8.
. “Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers I. Achimenes to Ancylostemon.”
Crosswords 4(3) (1980) :7—-14.
_ “Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers II. Beccarinda to Columnea.”
Crosswords 4(4)(1980) :6—15.
_ “Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers III. Conandron to Gesneria.”
Crosswords 5(1)(1981) :3—-10.
_ “Publications on the Gesneriaceae by Professor Harold E. Moore,
Jr.” The Gloxinian 31(2)(1981) :20—21.
. “Whither X Gomiocharis.” Crosswords 4(3)(1980) :5—6.
Smith, Lyman B., and Ayensu, E. S. “Velloziaceae Brasiliae—Il.” Bradea 3(14) (1979) :105-14.
Smith, Lyman B., and Wasshausen, D. C. “Chave para os Géneros das Gramineas Brasileiras.”” Bradea 3 Suplemento (March 1981) :1—36.
. “Creeping Species from Brazil now B. thelmae.” The Begonian 49
(May 1981) :114—115.
. “The Begonia on the Cover: B. listada.” The Begonian 49 (July 1981): cover, pp: 155-157.
Soderstrom, Thomas R. “Another Name for the Umbrella Bamboo.” Brittonia 31(4) (1979) :495.
_ “A New Species of Lithachne (Poaceae: Bambusoideae) and Remarks on Its Sleep Movements.” Brittonia 32(4) (1980) :495—S01.
Soderstrom, Thomas R., and Calderén, C. E. “Ecology and Phytosociology of Bamboo Vegetation.” In Ecology of Grasslands and Bamboolands in the World,” ed. M. Numata, chapter V. Jena: vec Gustav Fischer Verlag, 1979.
_ “The Genera of Bambusoidea (Poaceae) of the American Continent:
Key and Comments.” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 44. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
414 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 429>>>

. “In Search of Primitive Bamboos.” National Geographic Society Research Reports 12(1980) :647—54.
Solt, M. L., and Wurdack, J. J. “Chromosome Numbers in the Melastomataceae.” Phytologia 47(3) (1980) :199-220.
Steyermark, J. A.; Smith, Lyman B.; Robinson, H.; and Read, R. W. “Bromeliaceae.” In New Taxa from the Venezuelan Guayana, by J. A. Steyermark and collaborators. Brittonia 33(1)(April 1981) :28-33.
Suda, Y., and Faden, R. B. “The Karyotype of Streptolirion volubile Edgeworth from Japan.” Botanical Magazine, Tokyo 93(1980) :355-59.
Wasshausen, Dieter C. “Justicia sonorae, a New Species of Acanthaceae from Mexico.” Phytologia 48(4)(1981).
. “Kalbreyeracanthus Wasshausen, nom. var.” Taxon 30(May 1981):
477.
Wurdack, J. J. “Melastomataceae.” In Flora of Ecuador, eds. G. Harling and B. Sparre, pp. 1-406. Stockholm: Swedish Natural Science Research Council, 1980.
._“Certamen Melastomataceis XXXII.” Phytologia 48(3) (1981) :238-52.
Zdero, C.; Bohlmann, F.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Germacranolides from Proteopsis argentea.”” Phytochemistry 20(4) (1981) :739-41.
Department of Entomology
Blake, Doris H. “A Note on Three Old Species of Chrysomelidae.” Caribbean Journal of Science 16(1—4) (1980) :63—64.
Burns, John M. “Beginnings and Ends.” Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, 24(1) (1980) :60.
. “BioGraffiti: A Natural Selection.” New York and London: W. W.
Norton & Company, 1981.
_”“The Baculum.” In Sexuality: The Iluman Experience, by W. H. Gotwald, Jr., and G. H. Golden, page 54. New York: Macmillan Publishing Go. Inc., 1981.
Clarke, J. F. Gates. “Two New Species of Proculia from the Desventuradas Islands (Tortricidae).” Journal of the Lepidoptera Society 34(2) (i980) :182— 86.
_ “Transfer of Microlepidoptera Types to the Smithsonian Institution.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 82(4) (1980) :54.
Crabill, Ralph E., Jr. “On the Identity of Dysmesus Chamberlin: A New Generic Synonymy (Chilopoda: Geophilomorpha: Geophilidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83, no. 1, (1981) page 174.
. “Synonymy by Way of Teratology (Chilopoda: Lithobiomorpha:
Lithobiidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington
83(2) (1981) :35.
_“On the True Identity of Zygethobius pontis Chamberlin (Chilopoda: Lithobiomorpha: Henicopidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83(2) (1981) :360.
Davis, D. R. “A Redescription of “Micropteryx” selectella Walker with a Discussion Concerning Its Family Affinities (Acrolepiidae).”” Journal of the Lepidoptera Society 34(2)(1980) :187—90.
Davis, D. R., and Nielsen, E. S. ‘Description of a New Genus and Two New Species of Neopseustidae from South America with Discussion of Phylogeny and Biological Observations (Lepidoptera: Neopseustoidae).” Steenstrupia 6(16) (1980) :253-89.
Diakonoff, A., and Heppner, John B. “A Change of Names in the Choreutidae (Lepidoptera). Entomologische Berichte (Amsterdam) 40(1980) :196.
Erwin, T. L. “Taxon Pulses, Vicariance, and Dispersal: An Evolutionary Syn-
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 415

<<<Page: 430>>>

thesis Illustrated by Carabid Beetles.” In Vicariance Biogeography: A Critique, eds. D. Rosen and G. Nelson, pp. 159-83, 195-96. New York: Columbia University Press, 1981.
Erwin, T. L., and Kavanaugh, D. H. “On the Identity of Bembidion puritanum Hayward (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Bembidiini).” The Coleopterists’ Bulletin 34(2) (1980) :241—42.
Erwin, T. L., and Scott, J. C. “Seasonal and Size Patterns, Trophic Structure, and Richness of Coleoptera in the Tropical Arboreal Ecosystem: The Fauna of the Tress Luehea seemannii Triana and Planch in the Canal Zone of Panama.” The Coleopterists’ Bulletin 34(2)(1980) :305—22.
Faulkenberry, G. David, and Robbins, Richard G. “Statistical Measures of Interspecific Association Between the Fleas of the Gray-Tailed Vole, Microtus canicaudus Miller.” Entomological News 91(4) (1980) :93-101.
Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “VI. Trichoptera.” The Results of the Catherwood Foundation Bolivian-Peruvian Altiplano Expedition. Part I. Aquatic Insects Except Diptera, ed. S. S. Roback. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 132(1980) :213—-17.
. “Studies on Neotropical Caddisflies, XXVI: New Species from Ar-
gentina (Trichoptera).” Revista de la Sociedad Entomologica Argentina
39(1980) :137—42.
. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXVIII: The Trichoptera of the
Rio Limon Basin, Venezuela.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No.
330. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXIX: The Genus Polycentropus (Trichoptera: Psychomyiidae).” Journal of the Washington Academy of Science 70(1981) :148—60.
Froeschner, Richard C. “Notes on a Collection of Cydnidae (Hemiptera) from Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands Made in 1964-1965 by the Expedition of N. et J. Leleup.” Entomologie 52(12) (1980) :1—4.
. “Amnestus radialis Froeschner, 1960, Senior Synonym of A. sexdenta-
tus Froeschner, 1960 (Hemiptera: Cydnidae).” Entomological News 92(1)
(1981) :51.
. “Elsiella, News Genus for Ebora plana Walker, 1967 (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83(4) (1981) :532—36.
Froeschner, Richard C.; Froeschner, Elsie M. L.; and Cartwright, Oscar L. “Doris Holmes Blake. January 11, 1892—December 3, 1978.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83(4) (1981) :544—64.
Gerling, Dan; Hurd, Paul D., Jr.; and Hefetz, Abraham. “In-Nest Behavior of the Carpenter Bee, Xylocopa pubescens Spinola (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 54(2)(1981) :209-18.
Heppner, John B. “A New Parochromolopis (Epermeniidae) from Costa Rica.” Journal of the Lepidoptera Society 34(1) (1980) :48—50.
. “The Identity of Thaumatotibia Zacher, 1915: A New Synonym of
Crytophlebia (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological
Society of Washington 82(2)(1980) :334.
. “Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera. An Illustrated Catalogue of Neo-
tropical Moths and Butterflies.” Dr. W. Junk, The Hague, The Netherlands
(1980).
. “Announcement: Neotropical Lepidoptera Project.” Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington 83(1) (1981) :182.
. “Two New Dichrorampha (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) from Florida.”
The Florida Entomologist 64(2) (1981) :271-76.
. “Revision of the New Genus Diploschiza (Lepidoptera: Glyphipterigidae) for North America.” The Florida Entomologist 64(2)(1980) :309—36.
Heppner, John B., and Duckworth, W. Donald. “Classification of the Super-
416 / Smithsonian Year 1981
a ee

<<<Page: 431>>>

family Sesioidea (Lepdioptera: Ditrysia).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 314. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Huang, Yiau-Min. “A Redescription of Aedes (Stegomyia) calceatus Edwards and Description of a New Afrotropical Species, Aedes (Stegomyia) ledgeri (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 13(1)(1980) :92-113.
Hurd, Paul D., Jr.; LaBerge, Wallace E.; and Linsley, E. Gorton. “Principal Sunflower Bees of North America with Emphasis on the Southwestern United States (Hymenoptera: Apoidea). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No. 310. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Krombein, Karl V. ‘““Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, I. A Preliminary Revision of the Amiseginae (Hymnenoptera: Chrysididae).” P. E. P. Deraniyagala Commemoration Volume, Article 20, pp. 246-60, 1980.
Masteller, E. C., and Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Emergence Phenology of Trichoptera from Six Mile Creek, Erie County, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.” Aquatic Insects 2(1980) :197-210.
. Caddisfly (Trichoptera) Emergence Patterns from Two Streams of the Allegheny National Forest Area of Pennsylvania.” Melsheimer Entomological Series 29(1980) :12—22.
Mathis, Wayne N., and Freidberg, Amnon. “A New Species of Nesopsilopa from Florida (Diptera: Ephydridae).” The Florida Entomologist 63(3)(1980): 279-81.
Mathis, Wayne N., and Simpson, Karl W. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), V: Systematics, Phylogeny, and Natural History of the Genera Cirrula Cresson and Dimecoenia Cresson in North America.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 329. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Mathis, Wayne N., and Wirth, Willis W. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), IV: Revision of the Australian Species of Subgenus Neoscatella Malloch.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 325. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Perkins, Philip D., and Spangler, Paul J. “A Description of the Larva of Helocombus bifidus (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae).’” Pan-Pacific Entomologist 57(1)(1981) :52-56.
Peyton, E. L., and Harrison, B. A. “Anopheles leucosphyrus var. takasagoensis Morishita 1946, Removed from Synonymy of An. (Cel.) balabacensis Baisas and Elevated to Species Status (Diptera: Culicidae).”” Mosquito Systematics 12(3) (1980) :335—47.
Radovic, Ivica T., and Hurd, Paul D., Jr. “Skeletal Parts of the Sting Apparatus of Selected Species in the Family Andrenidae (Hymenoptera: Apoidea). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 82(4) (1980) :562-67.
Solomon, James C., and Froeschner, Richard C. “Notes on Food Resources and Behavior of the Family Coreidae (Hemiptera) in a Semi-deciduous Tropical Forest.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83(4) (1981) :428-31.
Spangler, Paul J. ‘New Genus of Water Scavenger Beetle from Chile (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae: Sphaeridiini).”” The Coleopterists’ Bulletin 33(3)(1979): 303-8.
. “Aquatic Coleoptera.” In The Results of the Catherwood Foundation
Bolivian-Peruvian Altiplano Expedition. Part I. Aquatic Insects Except Dip-
tera, ed. S. R. Roback, Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia 132(1980) :199-212.
. “The Aquatic Beetles Collected on the Starmuhlner Mission to Re-
union and Comoro Islands (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae: Hydraenidae; Gy-
rinidae).” Annalen des Naturhistorischen Museums in Wien 83(1980) :701-9.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 417

<<<Page: 432>>>

. “New and Interesting Water Beetles from Mt. Roraima, Venezuela (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae and Hydrophilidae).” Aquatic Insects 3(1)(1981): 1-11.
. “A New Water Beetle, Troglochares ashmolei, n. gen., n. sp., from
Ecuador; the First Known Eyeless Cavernicolous Hydrophilid Beetle (Co-
leoptera: Hydrophilidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington 83(2)(1981) :316—23.
. “Two New Genera, Two new Species of Bidessine Water Beetles from
South America (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist 57(1)
(1981) :65-75.
. “A Durable and Lightweight Insect Net and a Manual Aspirator for
Collecting Aquatic Insects.” Pan-Pacific Entomologist 57(1)(1981) :245—50.
. “Pagelmis amazonica: A New Genus and Species of Water Beetle from Ecuador (Coleoptera: Elmidae).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist 57(1)(1981): 286-94.
Spangler, Paul J., and Perkins, Philip D. “A New Genus and Species of Water Scavenger Beetle from Africa (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae: Sphaeridiinae).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist 57(1) (1981) :220—26.
Thompson, F. C., and Mathis, Wayne N. “Haliday’s Generic Names of Diptera First Published in Curtis’ A Guide to . . . British Insects (1837).” Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 70(2)(1981) :80-89.
Traub, R. “New Genera and Subgenera of Pygiopsyllid Fleas (Siphonaptera).” In Fleas, eds. R. Traub and H. Starcke, pp. 13-29. Proceedings of the International Conference on Fleas, Ashton, England, June, 1977 (1980).
. “Some Adaptive Modifications in Fleas.” In Fleas, eds. R. Traub and
H. Starcke, pp. 44-69. Proceedings of the International Conference on
Fleas, Ashton, England, June, 1977 (1980).
. “The Zoogeography and Evolution of Some Fleas, Lice and Mam-
mals.” In Fleas, eds. R. Traub and H. Starcke, pp. 93-172. Proceedings of
the International Conference on Fleas, Ashton, England, June, 1977 (1980).
. “Co-evolution of Fleas and Mammals.” Sixteenth International Congress of Entomologists, Kyoto, Japan, August, 1980. (Section II—Medical and Veterinary Entomology )
Traub, R., and Starke, H. eds. Fleas. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Fleas, Ashton, England, June, 1977 (1980).
Weires, R. W.; Davis, D. R.; Leeper, J. R.; and Reissig, W. H. “Distribution and Parasitism of Gracillariid Leafminers on Apple in the Northeast.” Annals of the Entomological Society of America 73(5)(1980) :541—46.
Department of Invertebrate Zoology
Ball, I. R.; Gourbault, N.; and Kenk, R. “The Planarians (Turbellaria) of Temporary Waters in Eastern North America.” Life Sciences Contributions, Royal Ontario Museum, 127(1981) :1-17.
Barnard, J. L., and Barnard, C. M. “Two New Phoxocephalid Genera, Fuegiphoxus and Phoxorgia, from Magellanic South America (Amphipoda: Crustacea). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(1980): 849-74.
. “The Amphipod Genera Eobrolgus and Eyakia (Crustacea: Phoxocephalidae) in the Pacific Ocean.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(1980) :295-313.
Barnard, J. L.; Bowers, D. E.; and Haderlie, E. C .“Amphipoda: The Amphipods and Allies.” In Intertidal Invertebrates of California, eds. R. H. Morris, D. P. Abbott, and E. C. Haderlie, pp. 559-66. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1980.
418 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 433>>>

Barnard, J. L., and Karaman, G. S., Jr. “Classification of Gammarid Amphipoda.” Crustaceana Supplement 6(1980) :5—16.
Bauer, Raymond T. “Grooming Behavior and Morphology of the Decapod Crustaceans.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 1(1981) :153—-73.
Bayer, Frederick M. “Pseudoplumarella echidna, a New Species of Primnoid Octocoral from Queensland (Coelenterata: Octocorallia).”” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(2) (1981) :622-30.
Black, J. J.; Harshbarger, J.; and Zeigel, R. F. “Tumors in Fish from a Copper Contaminated Lake”. In Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research and the American Society for Clinical Oncology, April 30—May 2, 1981, Washington, D.C., vol. 22, p. 134 .
Bowman, Thomas E. “Thermosphaeroma milleri and T. smithi, New Sphaeromatid Crustaceans from Hot Springs in Chihuahua, Mexico, with a Review of the Genus.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 1(1) (1981) :105—22.
. “Speocirolana pubens and S. endeca, New Troglobitic Isopod Crus-
taceans from Mexico (Flabellifera: Cirolanidae).” Association for Mexican
Cave Studies Bulletin 7(1981).
. “Mysidacea”. In Aquatic Biota of Tropical South America, eds. S. H.
Hurlbert, G. Rodriquez, and N. D. dos Santos, 1981.
. “Mysidacea.” Aquatic Biota of Central America, Mexico, and the West Indies, eds. S. H. Hurlbert and A. Villalobos, 1981.
Cavanaugh, C. M.; Gardiner, S. L.; Jones, M. L.; Jannasch, H. W.; and Waterbury, J. B. “Procaryotic Cells in the Hydrothermal Vent Tubeworm Riftia pachyptila Jones: Possible Chemoautotrophic Symbionts.” Science 213(1981): 340-42.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr.; and Abbott, Donald P. “Caridea: The Shrimps.” In Intertidal Invertebrates of California, eds. R. H. Morris, D. P. Abbott, and E. C. Haderlie, pp. 567-76. Stanford. Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1980.
Child, C. Allan. “Arthropoda: 21. Pycnogonida (Sea Spiders)” In Common Intertidal Invertebrates of the Gulf of California, ed. R. C. Brusca, 2d ed., pp. 320-25, Tucson: University of Arizona Press, 1980.
Cressey, H. B. ““Ceratocolax mycternastes, New Species (Copepoda, Bomolochidae) Parasitic in the Nasal Sinus of Haemulon sciurus (Pisces, Pomadasydae) from Belize.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(2) (1981) :514-24.
Cressey, R., and Cressey, H. B. “Bomolochid Copepods Parasitic on the Eyes of Indo-West Pacific Clupeid Fishes.” Fishery Bulletin 78(3) (1980) :715—30.
DeLanney, L.; Chang, S. C.; Harshbarger, J.; and Dawe, C. “Mast Cell Tumors in the Caudate Amphibian, Ambystoma mexicanum.” In Advances in Comparative Leukemia Research, eds. D. Yohn, B. Lapin, and J. Blakeslee, pp. 221-22. New York: Elsevier, 1980.
Fauchald, K. ‘“Onuphidate (Polychaeta) from Belize, Central America, with Notes on Related Taxa.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :797-829.
Gardiner, S. L., and Rieger, R. M. “Rudimentary Cilia in Muscle Cells of Annelids and Echinoderms.” Cell Tissue Research 213(1980) :247—52.
Harshbarger, J. C. ‘Neoplasms in Zoo Poikilotherms Emphasizing Cases in the Registry of Tumors in Lower Animals.” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 585-91. Washington, D.C.; Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Harshbarger, J. C.; Jacobson, E. R.; Smith, C. E.; and Couch, J. A. “Hematopoietic Neoplasms in Invertebrates and Cold-Blooded Vertebrates.” In Advances in Comparative Leukemia Research, eds. D. Yohn, B. Lapin, and J. Blakeslee, pp. 223-25. New York: Elsevier, 1980.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. “A New Pseudothelphusid Crab from the State of
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 419

<<<Page: 434>>>

Jalisco, Mexico.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington ;
93(2) (1980) :357—61.
Houbrick, Richard S. “Reapparaisal of the Gastropod Genus Varicopeza Grundel (Cerithiidae: Prosobranchia)”. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1981) :525—35.
. “Anatomy and Systematics of Gourmaya gourmyi (Prosobranchia: Cerithiidae), a Tethyan Relict from the Southwest Pacific’. The Nautilus 95(1) (1981) :2-11.
Jones, Meredith L. “Riftia pachyptila, New Species, New Genus, the Vestimentiferan Worm from the Galapagos Rift Geothermal Vents (Pogonophora).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(4) (1981): 1295-313:
. “Riftia pachyptila Jones: Observations on the Vestimentiferan Worm from the Galapagos Rift.” Science 213(1981) :333-36.
Kensley, Brian. “Notes on Axiopsis (Axiopsis) serratifrons (A. Milne Edwards) (Crustacea: Decapoda: Thalassinidea).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1981) :1253-63.
. “The South African Museum’s Meiring Naude Cruises. Part 12.
Crustacea Decapoda of the 1977, 1978, and 1979 Cruises.” Annals of the
South African Museum 83(1981) :49-78.
. “Decapod and Isopod Crustaceans from the West Coast of Southern
Africa, Including Seamounts Vema and Tripp.” Annals of the South African
Museum 83(1980) :13-32.
. “Records of Anthurids from Florida, Central America, and South
America (Crustacea: Isopoda: Anthuridae).” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :725—42.
. “Marine Isopods from Marion, Prince Edward, and Crozet Islands (Crustacea: Isopoda).” Annals of the South African Museum 82(1980): 155-85.
Kensley, Brian, and Gore, R. H. “Coralaius abelei, New Genus and New Species (Crustacea: Decapoda: Thalassinidea: Axiidae) a Coral Inhabiting Shrimp from the Florida Keys and the Western Caribbean.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1981) :1277-94.
Kornicker, Louis S. ”A Restudy of the Ostracode Genus Pleoschisma Brady, 1890 (Myodocopina).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 332. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. “Benthic Marine Cypridinoidea from Bermuda (Ostracoda).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 331. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Manning, Raymond B. “Oratosquilla megalops, a New Stomatopod Crustacean from Taiwan.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :523-24.
. “Neotype Selection for the Stomatopod Squilla chiragra Fabricius,
1781.” Crustaceana 40(2) (1981) :217-19.
. “First Record of Kempina zanzibarica (CHOPRA 1939) from the Red Sea, with Notes on Lenisquilla gilesi (KEMP 1911) (Crustacea: Stomatopoda).” Senckenbergiana biologica, Frankfurt 61(314) (1981) :297—303.
Manning, Raymond B., and Camp, David K. “A Review of the Platysquilla Complex (Crustacea, Stomatopoda, Nannosquillidae), with the Designation of Two New Genera.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(2) (1981) :591-97.
Manning, Raymond B., and Holthuis, L. B. “West African Brachyuran Crabs.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 306. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Manning, Raymond B., and Reaka, Maiorie L. “The Distributional Ecology and Zoogeographical Relationships of Stomatopod Crustacea from Pacific
420 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 435>>>

Costa Rica.” Smithsonian Contribution to the Marine Sciences No. 7. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “Gonodactylus siamensis, a New Stomatopod Crustacea from Thai-
land.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(2)(1981):
479-82.
. “Gonodactylus aloha, a New Stomatopod Crustacean from the Hawaiian Islands.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 1(2)(1981) :190—200.
Muzik, Katherine M., and Bayer, Frederick M. “Melithaea Milne Edwards & Haime, 1857 and Isis ochracea Linnaeus, 1758 (Coelenterata, Anthozoa): Proposed Conservation Z.N.(S.)2150.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 37 (4) :228-32.
Pawson, David L. “Holothuroidea.” In Echinoderms: Notes for a Short Course, eds. T. W. Broadhead and J. A. Waters. University of Tennessee Studies in Geology 3(1980) :175-89.
Pawson, David L., and Caycedo, I. E. “Holothuria (Thymiosycia) thomasi New Species, a Large Caribbean Coral Reef Inhabiting Sea Cucumber (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea).” Bulletin of Marine Science 30(2)(1980) :454—-59.
Pawson, David L., and Valentine, J. F. “Psolidium prostratum New Species, from off the East Coast of the U.S.A. (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(2)(1981) :450—-54.
Pérez Farfante, Isabel. “Revision of the Penaeid Shrimp Genus Penaeopsis (Crustacea: Decapoda)”. Fishery Bulletin, U.S. 77(4) (1980) :721-63.
. “A New Species of Rock Shrimp of the Genus Sicyonia (Penaeoidea), with a Key to the Western Atlantic Species.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :771-80.
Rehder, Harald A. “Mollusks’”. In Harper & Row’s Complete Field Guide to North American Wildlife. Eastern Edition, pages 459-619, 1980.
. The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Seashells. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1981.
Reish, Donald J., and Barnard, J. L. “Amphipods (Arthropoda: Crustacea: Amphipoda).” In Pollution Ecology of Estuarine Invertebrates, ed. C. W. Hart, Jr., pp. 345-70. New York: Academic Press, 1979.
Rice, Mary E. “Larvae Adrift: Patterns and Problems in Life Histories of Sipunculans.” American Zoologist 29(3)(1981).
. “Nas (National Academy of Sciences) 1981. Marine Invertebrates,” Report of the Committee on Marine Invertebrates, Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources, National Research Council. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1981.
Roper, Clyde F. E. “Cephalopods of the Southern Ocean Region: Potential Resources and Bibliography.” In Biological Investigations of Marine Antarctic Systems and Stocks (Biomass) vol. II, pp. 99-105, 1981.
Rosewater, Joseph. “Subspecies of the Gastropod. Littorina scabra.” The Nautilus 94(4) (1980) :158-62.
. Review of 1,000 World Sea Shells, Rare to Common with Values, by
A. G. Melvin and L. S. Melvin. National Capital Shell Club Newsletter,
September (1980):4.
. “Changes in Shell Morphology of Post-Larval Tridacna gigas Linne
(Bivalvia: Heterodonta).” Bulletin American Malacological Union for 1980
(1981) :45—48.
. “A New Aid to Taxonomic Research on Mollusks.” Bulletin American
Malacological Union for 1980 (1981) :67—-68.
. “The Family Littorinidae in Tropical West Africa.” Atlantide Report, Copenhagen 13(1981) :7—48.
Ruhoff, F. A. “Index to the Species of Mollusca Introduced from 1850 to 1870.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 294. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. 1980.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 421

<<<Page: 436>>>

Riitzler, Klaus. “Report on a Freshwater Sponge (Porifera: Spongillidae) from the Andaman Islands. Results of the Austrian-Indian Hydrobiological Mission 1976 to the Andaman Islands—Part II.” Aquatic Biology 3(1978) (issued 1980) :142—47.
Riitzler, Klaus; Ferraris, J. D.; and Larson, R. J. “A New Plankton Sampler for Coral Reefs.” Marine Ecology 1(1980) :65—71.
. “Living and Fossil Sponges.” Bulletin of Marine Sciences, 31(3)(1981): 474-75.
Sindermann, C. J.; Bang, R. E.; Christensen, N. O.; Dethlefsen, V.; Harshbarger, J. C.; Mitchell, J. R.; and Mulcahy, M. F. “The Role and Value of Pathobiology in Pollution Effects Monitoring Programs.” Reports et Procesverbaux des Reunions Conscil International pour l'Exploration de la Mer 179(1980) :135—51.
Williams, Austin B. “Western Atlantic Species of the Caridean Shrimp Genus Ogyrides.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 1(1)(1981) :143-47.
Wittenberg, J. B.; Morris, R. J.; Gibson, Q. J.; and Jones, M. L. “Kinetics of Hemoglobin of the Galapagos Rift Worm Riftia pachyptila Jones (Pogonophora: Vestimentifera).” Science 213(1981) :344—46.
Young, R. E.; Kampa, E. M.; Maynard, S. D.; Mencher, F. M.; and Roper, Clyde F. E. “Counterillumination and the Upper Depth Limits of Midwater Animals.” Deep-Sea Research 27A(1980) :671—91.
Department of Mineral Sciences
Agosto, W. N.; Hewins, R. H.; and Clarke, R. S., Jr. “Allan Hills A77219, the First Antarctic Mesosiderite.” In Proceedings of the Eleventh Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, pp. 1027-45, 1980.
Clarke, R. S., Jr.; Appleman, D. E.; and Ross, Daphne, R. “An Antarctic Iron Meteorite Contains Preterrestrial Impact-Produced Diamond and Lonsdaleite.” Nature 291(1981) :396-98.
Clarke, R. S., Jr.; Jarosewich, E.; Goldstein, J. I.; and Baedecker, P. A. “Antarctic Iron Meteorites from Allan Hills and Purgatory Peak .” Meteoritics 15(1980) :273-74.
Clarke, R. S., Jr., and Scott, E. R. D. “Occurrence and Origin of Tetrataenite, Ordered FeNi, in Meteorites .” Meteoritics 15(1980) :274—75.
DeAtley, S. P., and Melson, W. G. “Potential Clay Sources in the Morrison Formation.” Twenty-First Annual Meeting of the Archeometric Society . Major Element Variation in L-6 Chondrites.” Meteoritics 16(1981): 93-111.
Dunn, P. J. “On the Composition of Some Sarkinites.” Mineralogical Magazine 43(1980) :681.
Dunn, P. J.; Brummer, J. J.; and Belsky, H. “Sugilite, a Second Occurrence: Wessels Mine, Kalahari Manganese Field, Republic of South Africa.” Canadian Mineralogist 18(1980) :37-39.
Dunn, P. J.; Gaines, R. V.; and Kristiansen, R. “Mossite Discredited.” Mineralogical Magazine 43(1980) :553—54.
Dunn, P. J., and Leavens, P. B. “Yeatmanite: New Data.” American Mineralogist 65(1980) :196-99.
Dunn, P. J.; and Nelen, J. A. “Kraisslite and Mcgovernite: New Chemical Data.” American Mineralogist 65(1980) :957—60.
Dunn. P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; and Newberry. N. “Johnbaumite, a New Member of the Apatite Group from Franklin, New Jersey.” American Mineralogist 65(1980) :1143—45.
422 / Smithsonian Year 1981
= > aaa

<<<Page: 437>>>

Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; Newberry, N.; and Ramik, R. A. “Goosecreekite, a New Calcium Aluminum Silicate Hydrate Possibly Related to Brewsterite and Epistilbite.” Canadian Mineralogist 18(1980) :323—27.
Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; and Sturman, B. D. “Hauckite, Fe*+;(Mg,Mn)iZnis (SO,).(COs)2(OH)s; a New Mineral from Sterling Hill, New Jersey.” American Mineralogist 65(1980) :192—95.
Dunn, P. J., and Rouse, R. “Nealite, a New Mineral from Laurium, Greece.” Mineralogical Record 11(1980) :299-301.
. “Sundiusite, a New Lead Sulfate Oxychloride from Langban, Sweden.” American Mineralogist 65(1980) :506-—8.
Fleischer, Michael. “Additions and Corrections to the Glossary of Mineral Species.” Mineralogical Record 12(1981) :66-63.
Fudali, R. F.; Milton, D. J.; Fredriksson, K.; and Dube, A. “Morphology of Lonar Crater, India: Comparisons and Implications.” The Moon and the Planets 23(1980) :493-515.
Humphries, S. E.; Melson, W. G.; and Thompson, R. N. “Basalt Weathering on the East Pacific Rise and the Galapagos Spreading Center.” Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project 54, chapter 43, pp. 774-83, 1981.
Jarosewich, E., and Dodd, R. T. “Chemical Variation Among L-Group Chondrites, II. Chemical Distinction Between L3 and LL3 Chondrites.” Meteoritics 16(1981) :83-91.
Kerridge, J. F.; Fredriksson, K.; Jarosewich, E.; Nelen, J.; and MacDougall, J. D. “Carbonates in CI Chondrites.” Meteoritics 15(1980) :313-14.
ane, IT. V. V.; Score, R.; Schwarz, C.; Reid, A. M.; and Mason, Brian. “Summary Statistics of 1977 and 1978 Antarctic Meteorite Collections and a Glimpse of the 1979 Collection.” Meteoritics 15(4) (1980) :315—16.
Mason, Brian. “A Lode of Meteorites.” Natural History 90(4) (1981) :62—67.
Mason, Brian. “Garnet Compositions in Metamorphic Rocks and Granites of Westland, New Zealand.” Journal of the Royal Society of New Zealand 11(1)(1981) :35—43.
McClelland, L.; and Simkin, T. “Volcanology: Review of 1980.” Geotimes 26(2) (1981) :57—-58.
Melson, W. G. “Major and Minor Element Compositional Changes with Time in the 1980 Eruptive Sequence of Mount St. Helens Volcano.” SEAN Bulletin 5(11) (1980) :2-3.
Melson, W. G., and DeAtley, S. P. “Sourcing Obsidian by Electron Microprobe Analyses.” Twenty-First Annual Meeting of the Archeometric Society, 1981.
Melson, W. G.; Hopson, C. A.; and Kienle, C. “Petrology of Tephra from the 1980 Eruption of Mount St. Helens .” Annual Meetings Geological Society of America (1980) :482.
Miller, J.; Nelen, J.; Fredriksson, K.; Darsoprajitno, S.; and Padmanagara, S. “Cilimus: A New Chondrite Fall.’” Meteoritics 16(1981) :69-76.
Natland, J. H., and Melson, W. G. “Compositions of Basaltic Glasses from the East Pacific Rise and Siqueiros Fracture Zone, Near 9 Degrees North.” Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project 54(1980) :705—23.
Nelen, J.; Brenner, P.; and Fredriksson, K. “Grier(b),”” A New “Brecciated” L4-7 Chondrite.” Meteoritics 15(1980) :339.
Noonan, A. F.; Rajan, S.; Fredriksson, K.; and Nelen, J. “Chondrules in the Kapoeta and Bununu Howardites.” Meteoritics 15(1980) :343—44.
Ramik, R. A.; Sturman, B. D.; and Dunn, P. J. “Tancoite, A New Lithium Sodium Aluminum Phosphate from the Tanco Pegmatite, Bernic Lake, Manitoba.” Canadian Mineralogist 18(1980) :185—90.
Scott, E. R. D., and Clarke, R. S., Jr. “Ordering of FeNi in Clear Taenite From Meteorites.”” Nature 287(1980) :255.
Simkin, T., and Siebert, L. “Holocene Volcanoes.” In Plate-Tectonic Map of
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 423

<<<Page: 438>>>

the Circum-Pacific Region” (NE, sE, and NW Quadrants). Tulsa, Oklahoma: American Association of Petroleum Geologists, 1981.
Simkin, T.; Siebert, L.; McClelland, L.; Bridge, D.; Newhall, C.; and Latter, J. H. Volcanoes of the World: A Regional Directory, Gazetteer, and Chronology of Volcanism during the Last 10,000 Years. Stroudsburg, Penna.: Hutchinson Ross Publishing Company, 1981.
Sturman, B. D., and Dunn, P. J. “Gaitite, H»Ca»:Zn(AsO;)2(OH)2, A New Mineral from Tsumeb, Namibia.” Canadian Mineralogist 18(1980) :197—200.
White, J. S. “Lyman House Memorial Museum, Hilo, Hawaii.” Mineralogical Record 12(1981) :89—91.
Wlotzka, F.; and Fredriksson, K. “Morro de Rocio, an Unequilibrated H5 Chondrite.” Meteoritics 15(1980) :387-88.
Department of Paleobiology
Behrensmeyer, A. K., and Laporte, L. F. “Footprints of a Pleistocene Hominid in Northern Kenya.” Nature 289(5794) (1981) :167—69.
Benson, R. H. “Form, Function, and Architecture of Ostracode Shells.” Annual Review of Earth and Planetary Sciences, (9) (1981) :59—80.
Cheetham, A. H.; Hayek, L. C.; and Thomsen, Erik. “Growth Models in Fossil Arborescent Cheilostome Bryozoans.” Paleobiology 7(1) (1981) :68-86.
Cluver, M. A., and Hotton, Nicholas, III. “The Genera Dicynodon and Diictodon and their Bearing on the Classification of the Dicynodontia (Reptilia, Therapsida).” Annals of the South African Museum 83(6)(1981): 99-146.
Culver, S. J., and Buzas, M. A. “Foraminifera: Distribution of Provinces in the Gulf of Mexico.” Nature 290(5804) (1981) :328—29.
Emry, R. J. “New Material of the Oligocene Muroid Rodent Nonomys, and Its Bearing on Muroid Origins.” American Museum Novitiates 2712(1981): 1-14.
. “Additions to the Mammalian Fauna of the Type Duchesnean, with
Comments on the Status of the Duchesnean ‘Age.’” Journal of Paleontology
55(3) (1981) :563—70.
. Review of Mesozoic Mammals. The First Two Thirds of Mammalian History, eds. J. A. Lillegraven, Z. Kielan-Jaworowska, and W. A. Clemens. Journal of Paleontology 55(4)(1981) :908-10.
Emry, R. J., and Hunt, R. M., Jr. “Maxillary Dentition and New Records of Daphoenictis, An Oligocene Amphicyonid Carnivore.” Journal of Mammalogy 61(4) (1980) :720-23.
Feldhausen, P. H., and Stanley, D. J. “Hellenic Trench Sedimentation: An Approach Using Terrigenous Distributions.” Marine Geology 38(4) (1980): M21—M30.
Feldhausen, P. H.; Stanley, D. J.; Knight, R. J.; and Maldonado, Andrés. “Homogenization of Gravity-Emplaced Muds and Unifites: Models from the Hellenic Trench.” In Sedimentary Basins on Mediterranean Margins, ed. F. C. Wezel, pp. 203-26. Rome, Italy: Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 1981.
Forde, E. B.; Stanley, D. J.; Sawyer, W. B.; and Slagle, K. J. “Sediment Transport in Washington and Norfolk Submarine Canyons.” Applied Ocean Research 3(2) (1981) :59-62.
Gillette, D. D., and Ray, C. E. “Glyptodonts of North America.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology No. 40. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Grant, R. E. “Koskinoid Perforations in Brachiopod Shells: Function and Mode of Formation.” Lethaia 13(4)(1980) :313-19.
. “Memorial: W. Charles Bell.” Journal of Paleontology 55(1)(1981):
277-79.
424 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 439>>>

Hickey, L. J. “Paleontologists and Continental Drift.” Science 210 (4475) (1980) :1200.
. “Paleobotany.” Geotimes 26(2) (1981) :45—46.
Hickey, L. J. Review of Biostratigraphy of Fossil Plants, eds. D. L. Dilcher and T. N. Taylor. Science 212(4498) (1981) :1021—22.
. “Presentation of the Schuchert Award of the Paleontological Society to James A. Doyle.” Journal of Paleontology 55(3) (1981) :701-2.
Kier, P. M. “A Bored Cretaceous Echinoid.” Journal of Paleontology 55(3) (1981) :656-59.
Lighty, R. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Neumann, A. C. “Demise of a Holocene Barrier-Reef Complex, Northern Bahamas.” Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 12(7) (1980) :471.
Macintyre, I. G.; Burke, R. B.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. “Core Holes in the Outer Fore Reef off Carrie Bow Cay, Belize: A Key to the Holocene History of the Belizean Barrier Reef Complex.” In Fourth International Coral Reef Symposium: Manila, Philippines 18-22 May, 1981, pages 38-39. Diliman, Quezon City: Marine Sciences Center, University of the Philippines, 1981.
Maldonado, Andrés, and Stanley, D. J. “Clay Mineral Distribution Patterns as Influenced by Depositional Processes in the Southeastern Levantine Sea.” Sedimentology 28(1) (1981) :21-32.
Morgan, G. S.; Ray, C. E.; and Arredondo, Oscar. “A Giant Extinct Insectivore from Cuba (Mammalia: Insectivora: Solenodontidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :597—608.
Ray, C. E. “Douglas Ralph Emlong, 1942-1980.” Society of Vertebrate Paleontology News Bulletin 120(1980) :45—46.
Ray, C. E.; Anderson, Elaine; and Webb, S. D. “The Blancan Carnivore Trigonictis (Mammalia: Mustelidae) in the Eastern United States.” Brimleyana, The Journal of the North Carolina State Museum of Natural History (5) (1981) :1—36.
Ray, C. E., and Ling, J. K. “A Well Documented Early Record of the Australian Sea Lion.” Archives of Natural History 10(1) (1981) :155—71.
Ray, C. E., and Spiess, A. E. “The Bearded Seal, Erignathus barbatus, in the Pleistocene of Maine.” Journal of Mammalogy 62(2) (1981) :423-27.
Siegel, F. R., and Pierce, J. W. ‘Marine Samples in the Search for On-Shore Mineralization: Bottom Sediments, Seaweed, Suspended Mineral Matter.”  In Eighth International Geochemical Exploration Symposium, Hanover, Germany: Abstracts Book, page 24. Hanover, Germany: Association of Exploration Geochemists and GppB, 1980.
Stanley, D. J., and Maldonado, Andrés. ‘“Depositional Models for Fine-Grained Sediment in the Western Hellenic Trench, Eastern Mediterranean.” Sedimentology 28(2)(1981) :273-90.
Stanley, D. J.; Sheng, Harrison; and Blanpied, Christian. ‘‘Palygorskite as a Sediment Dispersal Tracer in the Eastern Mediterranean.” Geo-Marine Letters 1(1)(1981) :49-55.
Stanley, D. J.; Sheng, Harrison; Lambert, D. N.; Rona, P. A.; McGrail, D. W.; and Jenkyns, J. S. “Current-Influenced Depositional Provinces, Continental Margin off Cape Hatteras, Identified by Petrologic Method.” Marine Geology 40(3/4) (1981) :215-35.
Towe, K. M. “Preserved Organic Ultrastructure: An Unreliable Indicator for Paleozoic Amino Acid Biogeochemistry.” In Biogeochemistry of Amino Acids, eds. P. E. Hare, T. C. Hoering, and K. King, Jr., pp. 65-74. New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1980.
. “Feroxyhyte on Mars?” Nature 288(5787) (1980) :196.
. Review of Skeletal Growth of Aquatic Organisms: Biological Records
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 425

<<<Page: 440>>>

of Environmental Change, eds. D. C. Rhoads and R. A. Lutz. Geology 9(8) (1981) :384. Towe, K. M., and Moench, T. T. “Electron-optical Characterization of Bacterial Magnetite.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters 52(1)(1981) :213-20. Waller, T. R. “Functional Morphology and Development of Veliger Larvae of the European Oyster, Ostrea edulis Linne.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 328. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Department of Vertebrate Zoology
Ash, John S., and Watson, George E. “Great Shearwater Puffinus gravis New to Mexico.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 100(3) (1980) :194—95.
Carleton, Michael D. ‘Phylogenctic Relationships in Neotomine-Peromyscine Rodents (Muroidea) and a Reappraisal of the Dichotomy within New World Cricetinae.” Miscellaneous Publications Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan 157 (1980) :1-146.
. “A Survey of Gross Stomach Morphology in Microtinae (Rodentia: Muroidea).” Zeitschrift fiir Saugetierkunde 46(1981) :93-108.
Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. “Exocoetidae. Flying fishes.” In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Purposes. Eastern Central Atlantic Fishing Area 34, ed. Walther Fischer, 1981.
Gomon, Janet R. “Parapercis diplospilus (Pisces: Mugiloididae), a New Species from the Philippine Islands.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1981) :989-96.
Handley, C. O., Jr. “The Subspecies of Felis concolor Linnaens.” Eastern Cougar Newsletter 4(1981) :2.
. “Mammals.” In Endangered and Threatened Plants and Animals of Virginia, ed. D. W. Linzey, pp. 483-621. Blacksburg, Virginia: Center for Environmental Studies, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, 1980.
Heyer, W. Ronald. “The Calls and Taxonomic Positions of Hyla giesleri and Ololygon opalina (Amphibia: Anura: Hylidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :655—61.
Jenkins, R. E., and Lachner, E. A., compilers. ‘“Nocomis and Hybopsis.” In Atlas of North American Freshwater Fishes, by David S. Lee et al., pp. 187, 189, 197, 210-18. North Carolina Biological Survey No. 1980-12. North Carolina State Museum of Natural History, 1980.
Karnella, Susan J., and Lachner, Ernest A. ‘Three New Species of the Eviota epiphanes Group Having Vertical Trunk Bars (Pisces: Gobiidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(1) (1981) :264—-75.
Lachner, Ernest A., and Karnella, Susan J. “Fishes of the Indo-Pacific Genus Eviota with Descriptions of Eight New Species (Teleostei: Gobiidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 315. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980. :
Lachner, Ernest A., and McKinney, James F. “A New Fish Species of the Genus Vanderhorstia (Teleostei: Gobiidae) from the Amirantes Islands, Indian Ocean.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1981) :963-70.
Maxson, Linda R.; Heyer, W. R.; and Maxson, R. D. “Phylogenetic Relationships of the Brasilian Leptodactylid Frog Genera Craspedoglossa, Cycloramphus and Zachaenus.” Experientia 37(1981) :144—45.
Mead, James G. ‘First Record of Mesoplodon hectori from the Northern Hemisphere and a Description of the Adult Male.” Journal of Mammalogy 62(2) (1981) :430—32.
Mead, James G.; Odell, Daniel K.; Wells, Randall S.; and Scott, Michael D. “Biological Investigations on a Mass Stranding of Spinner Dolphins (Stenella longirostris) from the West Coast of Florida.” Fishery Bulletin 78(2) (1980) :353—60.
426 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 441>>>

Myers, P., and Carleton, M. D. “The Species of Oryzomys (Oligoryzomys) in Paraguay and the Identity of Azara’s ‘Rat sixieme ou Rat a Tarse Noir.’” Miscellaneous Publications Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan 161, 1981.
Olson, Storrs L. “Cave Localities and Fossil Deposits.” In “Late Pleistocene Herpetofaunas from Puerto Rico,” by Gregory K. Pregill, pp. 7-17 University of Kansas Museum of Natural History Miscellaneous Publication wa, LISL.
. “Interaction between the Two Subspecies Groups of the Seed-Finch
Sporophila angolensis in the Magdalena Valley, Colombia.” Auk 98(2)
(1980) :379-81.
. “The Museum Tradition in Ornithology—A Response to Ricklefs.”
Auk 98(1) (1980) :193-95.
. “The Subspecies of Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum)
in Panama (Aves: Emberizinae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 93(3) (1980) :757—-59.
. “A Revision of the Subspecies of Sporophila (‘“Oryzoborus”)
angolensis (Aves: Emberizinae).’” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 94(1) (1981) :43—51.
. “A Revision of the Northern Forms of Euphonia xanthogaster (Aves:
Thraupidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(1)
(1981) :101-6.
. “Systematic Notes on Certain Oscines from Panama and Adjacent
Areas (Aves: Passeriformes).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 94(2) (1981) :363-73.
. “The Nature of the Variability in the Variable Seedeater in Panama
(Sporophila americana: Emberizinae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington 94(2) (1981) :380—90.
. “A Third Species of Mancalla from the Late Pliocene San Diego Formation of California (Aves: Alcidae).” Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 1(1) (1981).
Olson, Storrs L., and Hasegawa, Yoshikazu. . Anima 92(1980) :59-66. (In Japanese: title supplied by publisher).
Olson, Storrs L.; James, Helen F.; and Meister, Charles A. “Winter Field Notes and Specimen Weights of Cayman Island Birds.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 101(3) (1981) :339-346.
Olson, Storrs L., and Steadman, David W. “The Relationships of the Pedionomidae (Aves: Charadriiformes).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 337. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Ripley, S. D. Rails, Post-partum Reflections. Connecticut: Meriden-Stinehour Press, 1981.
. “A New Record of the Sooty Swiftlet Collocalia vanikorensis from
New Ireland.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 100(4) (1980) :238.
. “Conservation in China: 1980.” Frontiers, The Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia, II(1980) :87—88.
. “A New Species, and a New Subspecies of Bird from Tirap District,
Arunachal Pradesh, and Comments on the Subspecies of Stachyris nigriceps
Blyth.” Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society, 77(1)(1980) :1-5.
. A Search for Environmental Ethics, An Initial Bibli-
ography, by M. Anglemyer et al. Washington: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1980.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 427

<<<Page: 442>>>

Ripley, S. D.; Johnson, David H.; and Thonglongya, Kitti. “Mammals from — Nepal.” Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 77(1) (1980) :56—-63. —
Ripley, S. D., and Moreno, Abelardo. “A Recent Sighting of Bachman’s — Warbler in Cuba.” Birding XII(6) (1980) :211-12.
Robins, C. Richard; Bailey, Reeve M.; Bond, Carl E.; Brooker, James R.; Lachner, Ernest A.; Lea, Robert N.; and Scott, W. B. “A List of Common and Scientific Names of Fishes from the United States and Canada.” American Fishery Society, Special Publication No. 12, 1980.
Rotondo, Gary M.; Springer, Victor G.; Scott, Geoffrey A. J.; and Schlanger, Seymour O. “Plate Movement and Island Integration—A Possible Mechanism in the Formation of Endemic Biotas, with Special Reference to the Hawaiian Islands.” Systematic Zoology 30(1) (1981) :12—21.
Springer, Victor G. “Comments on Solem’s Land-Snail Biogeography, with an Hypothesized Explanation of the Distribution of the Endodontidae.” In Vicariance Biogeography, eds. Gareth Nelson and Donn E. Rosen, pp. 225-30. New York: Columbia University Press, 1981.
Tate, C. M.; Pagels, J. F.; and Handley, C. O., Jr. “Distribution and Systematic Relationship of Two Kinds of Short-Tailed Shrews (Soricidae: Blarina) in South-Central Virginia.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(1980) :50—60.
Testaverde, Salvatore A., and Mead, James G. “Southern Distribution of the Atlantic Whitesided Dolphin, Lagenorhynchus acutus, in the Western North Atlantic.” Fishery Bulletin 78(1) (1980) :167—69.
Thorington, R. W., Jr., and Heaney, L. R. “Body Proportions and Gliding Adaptations of Flying Squirrels (Petauristinae).” Journal of Mammalogy, 62(1) (1981) :101-14.
Watson, George E. “A Second Specimen of Red Phalarope from Delaware.” Delmarva Ornithologist 12(2)(1980) :49.
. “The Non-Chicken Bird Remains.” In Excavations at Carthage, Conducted by the University of Michigan, ed. J. H. Humphrey, vol. 6, pp. 220— 30. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Kelsey Museum, University of Michigan, 1981.
Weitzman, Stanley H., and Géry, J. “The Relationships of the South American Pygmy Characoid Fishes of the Genus Elachocharax, with a Redescription of Elahocharax junki (Teleostei: Characidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1981) :887-913.
Weitzman, Stanley H., and da Cruz, Carlos Alberto Congalves. “The South American Fish Genus Rachoviscus, with a Description of a New Species (Teleostei: Characidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(4) (1981) :997-1015.
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
Ferrari, Frank D. “Pseudochirella squalida Grice and Hulseman, 1967, from Continental Slope Waters off Delaware (Copepoda: Calanoida).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(3) (1980) :526—S0.
Landrum, B. J. “Support of Biological Studies.” Antarctic Journal of the U.S. 15(5) (1981) :226.
Beehler, B. A.; Montali, R. J.; and Bush, M. “Mitral Valve Insufficiency with Congestive Heart Failure in a Pukeko.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 177 (9) (1980) :934—37.
Biben, M. “Over-marking of Alien Conspecific Odors by Mongolian Gerbils.” Biology of Behavior 5(1980) :139—45.
Brooks, D., and Frazier, J. “New Host and Locality for Kathlania leptura (Rudolphi) (Nematoda: Oxyurata: Kathlanidae) (Research Note).” Proceedings of the Helminthological Society of Washington 47 (2) (1980) :267-68.
428 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 443>>>

Bush, M. “Antibiotic Therapy in Reptiles.” Current Veterinary Therapy VII Small Animal Practice, ed. R. W. Kirk, pp. 647-49. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1980.
. “Laparoscopy in Birds and Reptiles.” Animal Laparoscopy, eds. R. M. Harrison and D. E. Wildt, ch. 11, pp. 183-97. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins Co., 1980.
Bush, M.; Custer, R. S.; Smeller, J. M.; et al. “Recommendations for Antibiotic Therapy in Reptiles.” In Reproductive Biology and Diseases of Captive Reptiles, eds. J. B. Murphy and J. T. Collins. Oxford, Ohio: Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles, 1980.
Bush, M.; Custer, R. S.; and Smith, E. E. “Use of Dissociative Anesthetics for the Immobilization of Captive Bears: Blood Gas, Hematology and Biochemistry Values.” Journal of Wildlife Diseases 16(4) (1980) :481-89.
Bush, M.; Custer, R. S.; and Whitla, J. C. “Hematology and Serum Chemistry Profiles for Giraffes (Giraffa camelopardalis): Variations with Sex, Age, and Restraint.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 11(4) (1980) :122-29.
Bush, M.; Montali, R. J.; Kleiman, D. G.; et al. “Diagnosis and Repair of Familial Diaphragmatic Defects in Golden Lion Tamarins.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 117(9) (1980) :858—62.
Bush, M.; Seager, S. W. J.; Wildt, D. E. “Laparoscopy in Zoo Mammals.” In Animal Laparoscopy, eds. R. M. Harrison and D. E. Wildt, ch. 10, pp. 169-82. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins Co., 1980.
Bush, M., and Smith, E. E. “Clinical Chemistry and Hematology as Diagnostic Aids in Zoological Medicine.” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 615-20. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Cambre, R. C.; Green, D. E.; Smith, E. E.; et al. “Salmonellosis and Arizonosis in the Reptile Collection at the National Zoological Park.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 177 (9) (1980) :800—803.
Campbell, G., and Montali, R. J. “Myodegeneration in Captive Brown Pelicans Attributed to Vit. E. Deficiency.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 11(1980): 35—40.
Custer, R. S., and Bush, M. “Physiologic and Acid-Base Measures of Gopher Snakes during Ketamine or Halothane-Nitrous Oxide Anesthesia.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 177(9) (1980) :870—74.
Dittus, W. P. J. “Primate Social Evolution as Reflected by Socio-Demographic Relationships.” Antropologia Contemporanea 3(1980) :191-—92.
. “The Social Regulation of Primate Populations: A Synthesis.” The Macaques: Studies in Ecology, Behavior, and Evolution, ed. D. G. Lindburgh, pp. 263-86. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold Co., 1980.
Eisenberg, J. F. ‘Different Climates-Different Zoos.” A Zoo for All Seasons, ed. A. Meyer, pp. 154-68. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1980.
. “The Density and Biomass of Tropical Mammals.” Conservation
Biology: An Evolutionary-Ecological Perspective, eds. M. E. Soulé and
B. A. Wilcox, pp. 35-55. Sunderland, Mass.: Sinauer Associates, Inc., 1980.
. “Biological Strategies of Living Conservative Mammals.” Comparative
Physiology: Primitive Mammals, eds. K. Schmidt-Nielson, L. Bolis, and C. R.
Taylor, pp. 13-30. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1980.
. “Insectivores in Captivity.” International Zoo Yearbook, 20(1980):
47-52.
. “Ecology and Behavior of the Asiatic Elephant.” Elephant 1 (suppl.)
(1980) :36-55.
. “Some Aspects of Reproduction in Rodents from South Asia.” P. E. P.
Deraniyagala Commemoration Volume, pp. 208-10. Colombo, Sri Lanka:
Lake House, 1980.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 429

<<<Page: 444>>>

. Review of The Gibbons: Songs of 11 Species, Recorded in Their Natural Forest Habitat, recorded by Joe and Elsie Marshall. Journal of Mammalogy 61(1980) :783.
. Review of Recent Advances in Primatology, Vol. 2, Conservation,
eds. D. J. Chivers and W. Lane-Pitter. Quarterly Review of Biology (1980).
. Review of Serengeti: Dynamics of an Ecosystem, eds. A. R. E. Sinclair
and M. Norton-Griffiths. Bioscience, 30(11) (1980) :780.
. Review of Handbook of Behavioral Neurobiology, eds. Peter Marler
and J. G. Vandenbergh. Applied Animal Ethology (1981).
. Review of The Evolution of Culture in Animals, by John Tyler
Bonner. Quarterly Review of Biology (1981).
. Review of Animal Tool Behavior, by Benjamin Beck. Bioscience 31 (1981) :465.
Frazier, J. “Exploitation of Marine Turtles in the Indian Ocean.” Human Ecology 8(4) (1980) :329-370.
. “Marine Turtles and Problems in Coastal Management.” Proceedings
of the Second Symposium on Coastal and Ocean Management, ed. B. L.
Edge, pp. 2395-411.
. “Sea-Turtle Faces Extinction in India: Crying ‘Wolf’ or Saving SeaTurtles?” Environmental Conservation 7(3) (1980) :239—40.
Hoopes, P. J., and Montali, R. J. “Tail Lesions in Captive Elephant Shrews.” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 425-30. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Johnson, C. W.; Montali, R. J.; and Bush, M. “Persistent Right Aortic Arch and Aberrant Left Subclavian Artery in a Pere David’s Deer.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 11(3) (1980) :71—75.
Keast, A., and Morton, E. S., editors. Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior, Distribution, and Conservation. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Kennedy, S.; Montali, R. J.; Smith, E. E.; and Bush, M. “Systemic Mycoses in Neonatal Reindeer: Association with a Possible Immunodeficiency Disorder.” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 311-16. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Kleiman, D. G. “The Sociobiology of Captive Propagation.” Conservation Biology: an Evolutionary-Ecological Perspective, eds. M. E. Soulé and B. A. Wilcox, pp. 243-61. Sunderland, Mass.: Sinauer Associates, Inc., 1980.
. “Using Volunteers in Behavioral Research and Animal Management
Studies.” In AAZPA 1980 Annual Conference Proceedings, pp. 14-18.
September, 1980.
. Review of Behavioral Sex Differences in Nonhuman Primates, by G.
Mitchell. Animal Behavior 28(1980) :642-43.
. Review of Olfaction in Mammals. Science, 212(1980) :155.
Kleiman, D. G.; Eisenberg, J. F.; and Maliniak, E. “Reproductive Parameters and Productivity of Caviomorph Rodents.” In Vertebrate Ecology in the Northern Neotropics, ed. John F. Eisenberg, pp. 173-83. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Kleiman, D. G., and Mack, D. S. “The Effects of Age, Sex, and Reproductive Status on Scent Marking Frequencies in the Golden Lion Tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia).” Folia Primatologia 33(1980) :1-14.
Kramer, J. M.; Montali, R. J.; and Strandberg, J. D. “Avian Amyloidosis.” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 317-26. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Malcolm, J. R. “Food Caching by African Wild Dogs (Lycaon pictus).” Journal of Mammalogy 61(4) (1980) :743—44.
430 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 445>>>

. “African Wild Dogs Play Every Game by Their Own Rules.” Smithsonian 11(8)(1980) :62—71.
Mann, P. C.; Bush, M.; Appel, M. J. G.; et al. “Canine Pavovirus Infection in South American Canids.” Journal of the American Vetcrinary Medical Association 177(9) (1980) :779-83.
Montali, R. J. “An Overview of Tumors in Zoo Animals.” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 531-42. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Montali, R. J., and Bush, M. “Rictulariasis in Golden Lion Tamarins.” Laboratory of Animal Science 30(1980) :33-34.
Montali, R. J.; Bush, M.; Kleiman, D. G.; and Evans, R. F. “Familial Diaphragmatic Defects in Golden Lion Tamarins.” Sonderdruck aus Verhandlungsbericht des XXII Internationalen Symposiums uber die Erkrankungen der Zootiere, Arnhem 1980, pp. 173-79.
Montali, R. J., and Hoopes, J. “Extrahepatic Biliary Carcinoma in Tropical Bears.” Lab Investigation 42(1980) :41.
Montali, R. J., and Migaki, G., editors. The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Morton, E. S. “Adaptations to Seasonal Changes by Migrant Land Birds in the Panama Canal Zone.” In Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior, Distribution, and Conservation, eds. A. Keast and E. S. Morton, pp. 437-53. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “The Importance of Migrant Birds to the Advancement of Evolu-
tionary Theory.” In Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior,
Distribution, and Conservation, eds. A. Keast and LE. S. Morton, pp. 555-57.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “Our Migrant Land Birds: Can We Continue to Take Them for Granted?” Atlantic Naturalist 33(1980) :36—41.
Oftedal, O. “Milk and Mammalian Evolution.” Comparative Physiology: Primitive Mammals, eds. K. Schmidt-Nielsen, L. Bolis, and C. R. Taylor, pp. 31-42. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1980.
Ralls, K. “Comment on Marion Lowe’s Sociobiology and Sex Differences.” Signs 5(1980) :544—45.
. Review of Behavior of Marine Animals, Current Perspectives in Re-
search, by H. E. Winn and B. L. Olla. Bioscience 30(1980) :192.
. Review of Chemical Signals: Vertebrates and Aquatic Invertebrates, in Quarterly Review of Biology, eds. D. Muller-Schwarze and R. M. Silverstein, 1981.
Ralls, K.; Brownell, R. L., Jr.; and Ballou, J. ‘Differential Mortality by Sex and Age in Mammals, with Specific Reference to the Sperm Whale.” Report of the International Whaling Commission, Special Issue 2(1980) :233-44.
Ralls, K.; Brugger, K.; and Glick, A. “Deleterious Effects of Inbreeding in a Herd of Captive Dorcas Gazelle, Gazella dorcas.” International Zoo Yearbook 20(1980) :137—46.
Rathbun, G. B., and Gache, M. “Ecological Survey of the Night Monkey, Aotus trivergatus, in Formosa Province, Argentina.” Primates 21(2)(1980): 211-19.
Rehg, J. E.; Burek, J. D.; Standberg, J. D.; and Montali, R. J. ““~Hemochromatosis in the Rock Hyrax (Procavia capensis).’” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 113-20. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Sass, B., and Montali, R. J. “Bone Lesions in the Sternebrae of Aging BeC3F) Mice.” Laboratory of Animal Science 30(1980) :907-9.
Schmidt, C. A.; Montali, R. J.; and Bush, M. “Persistent Right Aortic Arch and Aberrant Left Suclavian Artery in a Pere David’s Deer.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 11(1980) :71—75.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 431

<<<Page: 446>>>

Seidensticker, J., and Suyono, I. The Javan Tiger and the Meru-Betiri Reserve,
a Plan for Management. Gland, Switzerland: International Union for Con—
servation of Nature and Natural Resources, 1980. Stewart, H. L.; Williams, G.; Keysser, G. H.; Lombard, L. S.; and Montali,
R. J. “Histologic Typing of Liver Tumors in Rats.” Journal of the National —
Cancer Institute 64(1980) :179—206.
Strandberg, J. D.; Rizas, L. M.; and Montali, R. J. “Computerized Programs —
for Zoo Pathology Data.” In The Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals,
eds. R. J. Montali and G. Migaki, pp. 655-62. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1980.
Wemme er, C., and Murtaugh, J. ““Copulatory Behavior and Reproduction in the Binturong, Arctictis binturong.” Journal of Mammalogy 62(2)(1980) :342—52.
. “Olfactory Aspects of Rutting Behavior in the Bactrian Camel (Camelus bactrianus ferus).”’ In Chemical Signals in Vertebrates and Aquatic Animals, eds. D. Muller-Schwarze and R. M. Silverstein, pp. 107-24. New York: Plenum Press, 1980.
Wilhelmsen, C. L., and Montali, R. J. “Toxoplasmosis in a Parma Wallaby.” In American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Annual Proceedings, 1980, pp. 141-43.
Wilson, S. C. Review of Play and Aggression, by Donald Simons. Journal of Aggressive Behavior, 5(1)(1980).
Wurster-Hill, D. H., and Bush, M. “The Interrelationship of Chromosome Banding Patterns in the Giant Panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca), Hybrid Bear (Ursus middendorfi X Thalarctos maritimus), and Other Carnivores.” Cytogenet Cell Genet 27(1980) :147—-54.
Yahner, R. “Barking in a Primitive Ungulate, Muntiacus reevesi: Function and Adaptiveness.” American Naturalist 116(2)(1980) :157—77.
. “Time Budgets in Captive Reeve’s Muntjacs (Muntiacus reevesi).” Applied Animal Ethology 6(1980) :277—84.
August, P. V. “Fig Fruit Consumption and Seed Dispersal by Artibeus jamaicensus in the Llanos of Venezuela.” Reproductive Botany (1981) :70—76.
Beehler, B. A., and Bush, M. “The Use of Iodochlorhydroxyquin for Treatment of Chronic Diarrhea in an Indian Rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis). Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 12(1) (1981) :22-24.
Bovée, K. C.; Bush, M.; Dietz, J.; et al. “Cystinuria in the Maned Wolf of South America.” Science 212(1981) :919—20.
Brady, C. A. “The Vocal Repertoires of the Bush Dog (Speothos venaticus), Crab-Eating Fox (Cerdocyon thous), and Maned Wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus).”” Animal Behavior 29(1981) :649-69.
Brownell, R.; Anderson, P. K.; Owens, R.; and Ralls, K. “The Status of Dugongs at Palau, an Isolated Island Group.” In Dugong, eds. H. Marsh and J. Cook. Australia: University of North Queensland, 1981.
Bush, M.; Locke, D.; Neal, L. A.; et al. “Pharmacokinetics of Cephalothin and Cephalexin in Selected Avian Species.” American Journal of Veterinary Research 42(6) (1981) :1014-17.
Bush, M.; Smith, E. E.; Custer, R. S. “Hematology and Serum Chemistry Values for Captive Dorcas Gazelles: Variations with Sex, Age, and Health Status.” Journal of Wildlife Diseases 17(1) (1981) :135—43.
Eisenberg, J. F. The Mammalian Radiations: An Analysis of Trends in Evolution, Adaptation, and Behavior. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1981.
Eisenberg, J. F., and Wilson, D. E. “Relative Brain Size and Demographic Strategies in Didelphid Marsupials.” The American Naturalist 118(1) (1981): 1—15;
Gish, S. L., and Morton, E. S. “Structural Adaptations to Local Habitat Acoustics in Carolina Wren Songs.” Zeitschrift fur Tierpsychologie 56(1981): 74-84.
432 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 447>>>

Hand, J. L.; Hunt, G. L., Jr.; and Warner, M. “Thermal Stress and Predation: Influences on the Structure of a Gull Colony and Possibly on Breeding Distributions.” The Condor 83(3) (1981) :193—203.
Kleiman, D. G. “Leontopithecus rosalia.’”” Mammalian Species (148)(1981) :1-7.
. “Correlations Among Life History Characteristics of Mammalian Species Exhibiting Two Extreme Forms of Monogamy.” Natural Selection and Social Behavior, eds. R. D. Alexander and D. W. Tinkle, pp. 332-44. New York: Chiron Press, 1981.
Kleiman, D. G., and Malcolm, J. R. “The Evolution of Male Parental Investment in Mammals.” Parental Care in Mammals, eds. D. J. Gubernick and P. H. Klopfer, pp. 347-87. New York: Plenum Press, 1981.
Montali, R. J., and Bush, M. “Rictulariasis in Callitrichidae at the National Zoological Park.” In Sonderdruck aus Verhandlungsbericht des XXIII Internationalen Symposiums uber die Erkrankungen der Zootiere, Halle/Saale 1981, pp. 197-202.
Montali, R. J.; Hoopes, P. J.; and Bush, M. “Extrahepatic Biliary Carcinomas in Asiatic Bears.” Journal of the National Cancer Institute 66(3)(1981): 603-8.
Morton, E. S. “Adaptations for Tropical Survival in Wintering North American Birds.” Research Reports, National Geographic Society, 1981.
Neal, L. A.; Custer, R. S.; and Bush, M. “Ketamine Anesthesia in Pigeons (Columba livia): Arterial Blood Gas and Acid-Base Status.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 12(2)(1981) :48-51.
Rappole, J. H.; Morton, E. S.; and Lovejoy, T. E. “Nearctic Avian Migrants in the Neotropics.” U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Working Document.
Rathbun, G. B., and Redford, K. “Pedal Scent-Marking in the Rufous ElephantShrew, Elephantulus rufescens.” Journal of Mammalogy 62(3)(1981) :635—37.
Russell, J. K. “Patterned Freeze-Brands with Canned Freon.” Journal of Wildlife Management 45(4)(1981) :1078.
. “Exclusion of Adult Male Coatis from Social Groups: Protection from Predation.” Journal of Mammalogy 62(1)(1981) :206-8.
Sunguist, M. E. “The Social Organization of Tigers (Panthera tigris) in Royal Chitawan National Park, Nepal.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 336. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
mudt, D, E.; Platz, C. C.; Seager, S. W. J.; and Bush, M. “Induction of Ovarian Activity in the Cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus).”” Biology of Reproduction 24(1981) :217-22.
Ayensu, Edward S. “Biology in the Humid Tropics of Africa.” In International Biosciences Networks—African Biosciences Network, pp. 22-36. Washington, D.C.: International Council of Scientific Unions and uNEsco, 1981.
. Foreword in Firewood Crops: Shrubs and Tree Species for Energy
Production, p.v. Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences, 1980.
. “The International Regulation of Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Orchids.” American Orchid Society Bulletin 50(8)(1981) :959-67.
Ayensu, Edward S., and Smith, L. B. “Velloziaceae Brasiliae—2.”’ Bradea 3(14) (1980) :105-14.
DeJong, T. M., and Drake, B. G. ‘Seasonal Patterns of Plant and Soil Water Potential on An Irregularly-Flooded Tidal Marsh.” Aquatic Botany 11(1981): 1-9,
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 433

<<<Page: 448>>>

Dilworth, M. F., and Gantt, E. ‘Phycobilisome-thylakoid Topography on : Photesynthetically Active Vesicles of Porphyridium cruentum.” Plant Physi— ology 67(1981) :608—-12.
England, J.; Bradley, R. S.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Multiple Glaciations and © Marine Transgressions, Western Kennedy Channel, Northwest Territories, Canada.” Boreas 10(1981) :72-89.
Gantt, E. “Phycobilisomes.” Annual Review of Plant Physiology 32(1981): 327-47.
Gantt, E., and Lipschultz, C. A. “Structure and Phycobiliprotein Composition of Phycobilisomes from Griffithsia pacifica (Rhodophyceae). Journal of Phycology 16(1980) :394—98.
Goldberg, B. “Technical Note: Errors Associated with Precision Pyranometers on a Tilted Surface.” Solar Energy 25(1980) :285—86.
Jabben, M., and Deitzer, G. “Investigations on the Phytochrome System in Light-grown Plants.” Berichte der Deutschen Botanischen Gesellschaft 92.(1979) :575—84.
Klein, W. H., and Goldberg, B. Solar Radiation Measurements/1978-1979. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Lipschultz, C. A., and Gantt, E. “Association of Phycoerythrin and Phycocyanin: In vitro Formation of a Functional Energy Transferring Phycobilisome Complex of Porphyridium sordidum.” Biochemistry 20(1981) :3371—76.
Sager, J. C., and Giger, W., Jr. “Re-evaluation of Published Data on the Relative Photosynthetic Efficiency of Intermittent and Continuous Light.” Agricultural Meteorology 22(1980) :289—302.
Shropshire, W., Jr. “Carotenoids as Primary Photoreceptors in Blue-light Responses.” In The Blue Light Syndrome, ed. H. Senger, pp. 172-86. Berlin and Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 1980.
Smith, W. O., Jr. “Characterization of the Photoreceptor Protein, Phytochrome.” Photochemistry and Photobiology 33(1981) :961—64.
. “Probing the Molecular Structure of Phytochrome with Immobilized Cibacron Blue 3GA and Blue Dextran.” Proceedings National Academy of Science 78(1981) :2977—80.
Smith, W. O., Jr., and Daniels, S. M. “Purification of Phytochrome by Affinity Chromatography on Agarose-Immobilized Cibacron Blue 3GA.” Plant Physiology 68(1981) :443—46.
Stanley, D. J.; Rehault, J-P.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Turbid-layer Bypassing Model: The Corsican Trough, Northwestern Mediterranean.” Marine Geology 37(1980) :19-40.
Turitzin, S. N., and Drake, B. G. “The Effect of a Seasonal Change in Canopy Structure on the Photosynthetic Efficiency of a Salt Marsh. Oecologia 48(1981) :79-84.
Yamamoto, K. T., and Smith, W. O., Jr. “Alkyl and w-amino Agaroses as Probes of Light-induced Changes in Phytochrome from Pea Seedlings (Pisum sativum cv. Alaska). Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 668(1981) :27—34.
(Including Contributions from Harvard Members of the Center for Astrophysics)
Alcaino, G., and Liller, W. “The Main Sequence of the Globular Cluster NGC 288.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :1592—603.
. “The Main Sequence of the Metal-Poor Globular Cluster M30.” Astro-
nomical Journal 85(1980) :1330—40.
. “The Main Sequence of the Metal-Poor Globular Cluster NGC 6397.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :680—95.
Aton, T.; Franck, C.; Kallne, E.; Schnatterly, S.; and Zutavern, F. J. “A New
434 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 449>>>

Toroidal Grating Spectrometer for the Soft X-Ray Region.” Nuclear Instrumentation and Methods 172(1980) :173-75.
Avni, Y.; Soltan, A.; Tananbaum, H.; and Zamorani, G. “A Method for Determining Luminosity Functions Incorporating both Flux Measurements and Flux Upper Limits, with Applications to the Average X-Ray to Optical Luminosity Ratio for Quasars.” Astrophysical Journal 238(1980) :800-808.
Avrett, E. H. “Energy Balance in Solar and Stellar Chromospheres.” In Solar Phenomena in Stars and Stellar Systems, eds. R. M. Bonnet and A. K. Dupree, pp. 173-98. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.
Ayres, T. R.; Linsky, J. L.; Vaiana, G. S.; Golub, L.; and Rosner, R.  “The Cool Half of the HR Diagram in Soft X-Rays.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :870.
Baliunas, S. L.; Hartmann, L. W.; Vaughan, A. H.; Liller, W.; and Dupree, A. K. “Short-Timescale Variability of Chromospheric Ca II in Late-Type Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 246(1981) :473.
Ball, J. A. “Extraterrestrial Intelligence: Where is Everybody?” American Scientist 68(1980) :656.
Barnes, C. E.; Brown, J. M.; and Radford, H. E. “The EPR and LMR Spectra of the DO» Radical: Determination of Ground-State Parameters.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 84(1980) :179—96.
Bayfield, J. E.; Gardner, L. D.; Gulkok, Y. Z.; Saylor, T. K.; and Sharma, S. D. “Charge Exchange Measurements in Helium Using a Double Tandem Accelerator-Decelerator Source of Low-Energy Highly Stripped Oxygen Ions.” Reviews of Scientific Instruments 51(1980) :651.
Black, J. H. “Observations of Interstellar Molecules with the International Ultraviolet Explorer.” In Interstellar Molecules, ed. B. J. Andrew, pp. 257-60. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Black, J. H., and Smith, P. L. “Chlorine Chemistry in Diffuse Interstellar Clouds.” In Interstellar Molecules, ed. B. J. Andrew, pp. 271-72. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Bohlin, J. D.; Frost, K. J.; Burr, P. T.; Guha, A. K.; and Withbroe, G. L. “Solar Maximum Mission.” Solar Physics 65(1980):5.
Bookbinder, J. A.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Stellar Contribution to Galactic Component of Diffuse Soft X-Ray Background.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :871.
Bowers, P. F.; Reid, M. J.; Johnston, K. J.; Spencer, J. H.; and Moran, J. M. “The Structure of OH Masers Around Late-Type Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 242(1980) :1088-101.
Bowen, K. H.; Leopold, K. R.; Chance, K. V.; and Klemperer, W. “Weakly Bound Complexes of Sulfur Trioxide: The Structure of ArSO: and the Dipole Moment of N2SOs.” Journal of Chemical Physics 73(1980) :137.
Branduardi-Raymont, G.; Fabricant, D.; Feigelson, E.; Gorenstein, P.; Grindlay, J.; Soltan, A.; and Zamorani, G. “Soft X-Ray Images of the Central Region of the Perseus Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal 248(1981) :55—60.
Brinkman, A. C.; den Boggende, A. J. F.; Heise, J.; Mewe, R.; Gronenschild, E. H. B. M.; Schrijver, J.; Parsignault, D.; and Grindlay, J. “Measurements of Weak X-Ray Sources by ANS.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 81(1980): 185-88.
Brown, J. M.; Kerr, C. M. L.; Wayne, F. D.; Evenson, K. M.; and Radford, H. E. “The Far-Infrared Laser Magnetic Resonance Spectrum of the OH Radical.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 86(1981) :544—54.
Butler, S. E., and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer of Multiply Charged Ions with Hydrogen and Helium: Landau-Zener. Calculations.” Astrophysical Journal 241(1980) :838—43.
Butler, S. E.; Heil, T. G.; and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer of Multiply Charged Ions with Hydrogen and Helium: Quantal Calculations.” Astrophysical Journal 241(1980) :442—47.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 435

<<<Page: 450>>>

Butler, S. E., and Raymond, J. C. “Charge Transfer in Astrophysical Shocks.” Astrophysical Journal 240(1980) :680. ;
Cardon, B. L.; Oona, H.; and Leavitt, J. A. “Equilibrium Charge-State Distributions and Multiple-Scattering Angles of 1and 2-MeV Krypton Ions in Carbon Foils.” Physical Review A 21(1980) :515—17.
Cardon, B. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Tomkins, F. S. “Oscillator Strengths in Neutral Yttrium (Y I) from Hook Method Measurements in a Furnace.” Journal of the Optical Society of America 70(1980) :1372.
Carleton, N. P. “The MMT Optical System.” Proceedings of Society of PhotoOptical Instrumentation Engineers 260(1980) :part 6-3.
Carral, P.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Chaisson, E. J. “The Electron Temperatures of W31C and S206 and the Chemical Variations of our Galaxy.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 95(1981) :388.
Chaffee, F. H. “The Discovery of a Gravitational Lens.” Scientific American 243(1980) :263—67.
Chaffee, F. H., Jr.; Lutz, B. L.; Black, J. H.; Vanden Bout, P. A.; and Snell, R. L. “Rotational Fine Structure Lines of Interstellar C2 Toward Zeta Persei.” In Interstellar Molecules, ed. B. J. Andrew, pp. 263-67. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Chaisson, E. J. “Black Holes, the Fate of the Universe, and Other Matters.” In Einstein Centennial Celebrations, ed. C. G. Shugart. Memphis, Tenn.: Memphis State University Press, 1981.
. “Exploring the Invisible: Astronomy in the 70’s.” Harvard Crimson,
January 1980.
“Journey to the Center of the Galaxy.” Astronomy Magazine (August
1980).
. “The Beginnings of Tomorrow.” Think Magazine (January-February 1980) :34.
Chance, K. V.; Brasunas, J. C.; and Traub, W. A. “Far Infrared Measurement of Stratospheric HCI.” Geophysical Research Letters 7(1980) :704.
Cheung, L. H.; Frogel, J. A.; Gazari, D. Y.; and Hauser, M. G. “1.0 mm Maps and Radial Density Distributions of Southern H II/Molecular Cloud Complexes.” Astrophysical Journal 240(1980) :74.
Cook, A. F.; Weekes, T. C.; Williams, J. T.; and O’Mongain, E. “Flux of Optical Meteors Down to Mpg = +12.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 193(1980) :645.
Consolmagno, G. J., and Cameron, A. G. W. “The Origin of the FUN Anomalies and the High Temperature Inclusions in the Allende Meteorite.” The Moon and the Planets 23(1980) :3.
Cornell, J. “The First Stargazers: An Introduction to the Origins of Astronomy.” New York: Scribner’s, 1981.
Cowan, J. J.; Cameron, A. G. W.; and Truran, J. W. “Seed Abundances for R-Processing in the Helium Shells of Supernovae.” Astrophysical Journal 241(1980) :1093.
Dalgarno, A. “Molecular Formation in Hot Diffuse Clouds.” In Interstellar Molecules, ed. B. J. Andrew, pp. 273-80. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Dalgarno, A.; Butler, S. E.; and Heil, T. G. “Charge Transfer of Doubly Charged Oxygen Ions in Helium.” Journal of Geophysical Research 85 (1980) :6047—48.
Dalgarno, A.; Heil, T. G.; and Butler, S. E. “Charge Transfer of O IV with Hydrogen.” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :793-97.
Dalgarno, A.; Victor, G. A.; and Hartquist, T. W. “The Auroral 2145 A Feature.” Geophysical Reeeeeen Letters 8(1981) :603—5.
Danaher, S.; Fegan, D. J.; Porter, N. A.; and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma Ray Observations of Cygnus X-3 at Energies of 10° eV.” Nature 289(1981) :581.
436 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 451>>>

Davis, M.; Feigelson, E.; and Latham, D. W. “Grid Photography of the Halo of NGC 4565.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :131-38.
Davis, M.; Tonry, J.; Huchra, J.; and Latham, D. W. “On the Virgo Supercluster and the Mean Mass Density of the Universe.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 238(1980) :L113-16.
Davis, R. J. “Ultraviolet Astronomy—New Results from Recent Space Experiments.” Highlights of Astronomy 5(1980) :237—329.
Deckel, A.; Lecar, M.; and Shaham, J. “N-Body Simulations of Slow Tidal Encounters and the Formation of Galactic Halos.” Astrophysical Journal 241 (1980) :946—64.
De Jong, T.; Dalgarno, A.; and Boland, W. “Hydrostatic Models of Molecular Clouds. I. Steady State Models.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 91(1980): 68-84.
Delvaille, J. P.; Schnopper, H. W.; Kallne, E.; Lindau, I.; Tatchyn, R.; Gutcheck, R. A.; Bachrach, R. Z.; and Dijkstra, J. H. “Diffraction Efficiencies of Holographic Transmission Gratings in the Region 8-13 eV.” Nuclear Instruments and Methods 172(1980) :281-85.
Dupree, A. K. “Chromospheres and Coronae in Binary Systems.” In Solar Phenomena in Stars and Stellar Systems, eds. R. M. Bonnet and A. K. Dupree, p. 407. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.
Dupree, A. K. “Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Measurements of Cool Stars.” Highlights of Astronomy 5(1980) :263—76.
Dupree, A. K., and Hartmann, L. “Winds and Coronae in Cool Stars.” In Stellar Turbulence, eds. D. F. Gray and J. L. Linsky, p. 279. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 1980.
Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Raymond, J. C. “Ultraviolet Spectroscopy of Binary Systems.” In Close Binary Stars: Observations and Interpretation, eds. M. J. Plavec, D. M. Popper, and R. K. Ulrich, pp. 39-52. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Elliot, J. L.; French, R. G.; Frogel, J. A.; Elias, J. H.; Mink, D. J.; and Liller, W. “Orbit of Nine Uranian Rings.” Astronomical Journal 86(1981) :444—-55.
Elmegreen, B. G.; Genzel, R.; Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; and Walker, R. C. “VLBI Observations of the HxO Masers in Sgr B2.” Astrophysical Journal 241(1980) :1007-13.
Elsner, F. R.; Ghosh, P.; Darbro, W.; Weisskopf, M. C.; Sutherland, P. G.; and Grindlay, J. E. “Observations of Cygnus X-3 with the Einstein (HEAO-2) X-Ray Observatory: The Period Derivative and the Asymmetric X-Ray Light Curve.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11 (1980) :794.
Elvis, M.; Feigelson, E.; Griffiths, R. E.; Henry, J. P.; and Tananbaum, H. “X-Ray Variability in Active Galaxy Nuclei and Quasars in Less than One Day.” Highlights of Astronomy 5(1980) :653—56.
Fabbiano, G. “Observations of Supernova Remnants with the Einstein Observatory.” In X-Ray Astronomy, eds. R. Giacconi and G. Setti, pp. 15-34. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Fabbiano, G.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, R. E.; and Johnston, M. D. “Study of the Structure of the Tycho SNR with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator Experiment.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 235(1980) :L163-66.
Fabbiano, G., and Feigelson, E. “X-Ray Observations of Peculiar Galaxies with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :873.
Fabbiano, G.; Hartmann, L.; Raymond, J.; Steiner, J.; Branduardi-Raymont, G.; and Matilsky, T. “Coordinated X-Ray, Ultraviolet, and Optical Observations of AM Herculis, U Geminorum, and SS Cygni.” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :911.
Fabian, A.; Hu, E.; Cowie, L.; and Grindlay, J. “The Distribution and the
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 437

<<<Page: 452>>>

Morphology of the X-Ray Emitting Gas in the Core of the Perseus Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal 248(1981) :47—54.
Fabian, A. C.; Pye, J. P.; Willingale, R.; Murray, S. S.; and Fabbiano, G. “The X-Ray Structure and Mass of the Cassiopeia A Supernova Remnants.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 193(1980) :175.
Fabricani, D.; Lecar, M.; and Gorenstein, P. “X-Ray Measurements of the Mass of MB7. ” Astrophysical Journal 241(1981) :552—-60.
Farrell, B. F.; Mattison, E. M.; and Vessot, R. F. C. “Application of Modern Time Series Analysis to High Stability Oscillators.” In Proceedings of the Thirty-fourth Annual Frequency Control Symposium, pp. 228-32. Ft. Monmouth, New Jersey: Usaeradcom, 1980.
Fazio, G. G. “A 102-cm Balloon-Borne Telescope for Far-Infrared Astronomical Observations.” Proceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 265(1981) :62.
Fazio, G.; McBreen, B.; Stier, M.; and Wright, E. L. “Far Infrared Size of IRC+10216.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 237(1980) :L39—42.
Fegley, B. ‘Condensation of Barium, Strontium, and Zirconium in the Primitive Solar Nebula.” Lunar and Planetary Science XI (1980) :279-81.
Fegley, B., Jr., and Lewis, J. S. “Volatile Element Chemistry in the Solar Nebula: Na, K, F, Cl, Br, and P.” Icarus 41(1980) :439-55.
Fichtel, C.; Arnett, D.; Grindlay, J.; and Trombka, J. “Gamma Ray Astrophysics.” In Astrophysics from Spacelab, eds. P. L. Bernacca and R. Ruffini, pp. 145-241. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Fireman, E. L. “Carbon-14 and Argon-39 in ALHA Meteorites.” In Proceedings of the Eleventh Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, Geochimica et Cosmochemica Acta 2(1980) :1215—21.
. “Solar Activity during the Past 10‘ Years from Radionuclides in Lunar | Samples.” In Proceedings of the Conference on the Ancient Sun, eds. R. O. Pepin, J. A. Eddy, and R. B. Merrill, pp. 267-78. New York: Pergamon Press, 1980.
Fireman, E. L., and Norris, T. ’“C Ages of Antarctic Meteorites and — Ice and the Composition of the Air Trapped in the Ice.” Lunar and Planetary Science XII (1981) :282-84. |
Fireman, E. L., and Stoenner, R. W. “Carbon and Carbon-14 in ~ Lunar Soil 14163.” Lunar and Planetary Science XII (1981) :285—87. ,
Forman, W.; Bechtold, J.; Blair, W.; Giacconi, R.; VanSpeybroeck, L.; and § Jones, C. “Einstein Imaging Observations of Clusters with a Bimodal Mass Distribution.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 243(1981) :L133.
Fox, J. L., and Dalgarno, A. “Ionization, Luminosity, and Heating of the Upper neeanere of Venus.” Journal of Geophysical Research 86(1981) :629-39.
Fox, J. L., and Victor, G. A. “O*+ in the Venusian Ionosphere.” Journal of — Geophysical Research 86(1981) :2438—42. .
Franklin, F. A.; Avis, C. C.; Colombo, G.; and Papaloizou, J. “Tidal Torques — on Infrequently Colliding Planetary Disks and the Truncation of the Aster— oid Belt.” Icarus 42(1980) :411. .
Galeev, A. A.; Rosner, R.; Serio, S.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Dynamics of Coronal . Structures: Magnetic Field-Related Heating and Loop Energy Balance.” — Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :301-8.
Garcia, M.; Baliunas, S. L.; Conroy, M.; Ralph, E.; Roberts, W.; Johnston, | D. A.; Schwartz, D. A.; and Tonry, J. “Optical Identification of H0123+75 — and 4U1137—65: Hard X-Ray Emission from RS CVn Systems.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 240(1980) :L107—10.
Garcia, M.; Baliunas, S. L.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Patterson, J.; Schwartz, D.; Watson, M.; and Doxsey, R. “Optical Identification of © 2A1704+241 with the MOIII Star HD 154791.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society 26(1981) :570.
Gardner, L. D.; Bayfield, J. E.; Koch, P. M.; Sellin, I. A.; Pegg, D. J.; Peterson,
438 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 453>>>

R. S.; and Crandall, D. H. “Electron Capture Collisions at KeV Energies of Boron and Other Multiply Charged Ions with Atoms and Molecules.” Physical Review A 21(1980) :1397.
Geary, J., and Latham, D. W., editors. “Solid State Imagers for Astronomy.” Proceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 280 (1981).
Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; Schneps, M. H.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; Kogan, L. R.; Kostenko, V. I.; Matveyenko, L. K.; and Ronnang, B. “Proper Motions and Distances of HzO Maser Sources. II: W51 Main.” Astrophysical Journal 247 (1981) :1039-51.
Genzel, R.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Downes, D. “Proper Motions and Distances of HxO Maser Sources I: The Outflow in Orion-KL.” Astrophysical Journal 244(1981) :884—902.
Giacconi, R., and Setti, G., editors. “X-Ray Astronomy.” Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Giacconi, R., and Tananbaum, H. “The Einstein Observatory: New Perspectives in Astronomy.” Science 209(1980) :865.
Giacconi, R., and Tucker, W. H. ‘Einstein Observatory: Focus on the High Energy Universe.” Journal of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics 18(1980) :30—37.
Gingerich, O. “Appendix to E. S. Kennedy’s Astronomical Events from a Persian Astrological Manuscript.” Centaurus 24(1980) :178—80.
. “Aristarchus of Samos Symposium.” Sky and Telescope 60(1980):
. “(Astronomical Scrapbook) The First Photograph of the Nebula.” Sky
and Telescope 60(1980) :364—66.
. Forward in Sky Watchers of Ancient Mexico by Anthony Aveni, p. xi.
Austin, Texas: University of Texas Press, 1980.
. “Great Revelations.” In Fire of Life—The Smithsonian Book of the
Sun, pp. 30-37. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1980.
. “Notes on a Copernican Book.” “Historical Questions on Natural
Science and Technology.” Soviet Academy of Sciences 2(1980):103-6 (in
Russian).
. “On the Birthplace of Science.” Harvard Magazine 83(1980) :5—6.
. “Was Ptolemy a Fraud?” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomi-
cal Society 21(1980) :253-66.
. “Ptolemy Revisited: A Reply to R. R. Newton.” Journal of the Royal
Astronomical Society 22(1981) :40—44.
. “Kirchhoff and Bunsen: Unlocking the Chemical Secrets of
the Universe.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 26(1981) :38.
. “Hidden Harvard.” Harvard Magazine 83(1981):7.
. “Commentary of Ellegard’s ‘Stone Age Science in Britain?’.” Current
Anthropology 22(1981) :117-18.
. “(Astronomical Scrapbook) Unlocking the Chemical Secrets of the
Cosmos.” Sky and Telescope 62(1981) :13—15.
. “(Astronomical Scrapbook) Great Conjunctions, Tycho, and Shake-
speare.” Sky and Telescope 61(1981) :394—95.
. “(Astronomical Scrapbook) Early Textbooks with Moving Parts.” Sky
and Telescope 61(1981) :4—6.
. “(Astronomical Scrapbook) Atget’s Eclipse Watchers.” Sky and Tele-
scope 61(1981) :215-16.
. “An Early Tradition of an Extended Errata List for Copernicus’ De revolutionibus.” Journal of the History of Astronomy 12(1981) :47—52.
Gingerich, O., and Westman, R. S. “A Reattribution of the Tychonic Annotations in Copies of Copernicus’ De revolutionibus.” Journal of the History of Astronomy 12(1981) :53—54.
Golub, L.; Pallavicini, R.; Peres, G.; Rosner, R.; Serio, S.; and Vaiana, G. S.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 439

<<<Page: 454>>>

“Transition Region and Corona in Solar Active Regions: Obser vations and Numerical Modeling.” Bulletin of the American Astronomic Society 12(1980) :908.
Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; Vaiana, G. S.; and Weiss, N. O. “Solar Magneti Fields: The Generation of Emerging Flux.” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) 309-16.
Gorenstein, P., and Schwarz, D. A. “Implications of Results from the Einstein Observatory for the X-Ray Background.” Highlights of Astronomy 5(1980): 763-70.
Griffiths, R. E. “Recent X-Ray Observations of Seyferts and Emission Line Galaxies.” Highlights of Astronomy 5(1980) :641-51.
Griffiths, R. E.; Bechtold, J.; Danziger, J.; Giacconi, R.; MacGillivray, H. TH Malin, D. F.; Murdin, P.; Murray, S. S.; Peterson, B. A.; Smith, M.; and
Ward, M. [Abstract “The Optical identheation Contaee of the Einstein Deep Survey of a Region in Pavo.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical — Society 12(1980) :795.
Griffiths, R. E.; Lamb, D. Q.; Ward, M. J.; Wilson, A. S.; Charles, P. Ag Thorstensen, J.; McHardy, I. M.; and Lawrence, A. “The Optical Identification of H 2254-033 with a Cataclysmic Variable.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 193(1980) :25p—33p.
Griffiths, R. E.; Polucci, G.; Mak, A.; Murray, S. S.; Schwarz, D. A.; and Zombeck, M. “Preliminary Results from a Single Photon Imaging X-Ray CCD Camera.” Proceedings of the SPIE Symposium 224(1980) :57—65.
Griffiths, R. E.; Schwartz, D. A.; Polucci, G.; Murray, S.; and Zombeck, M. “Preliminary Results from a Single-Photon Imaging X-Ray CCD Camera.” Proceedings of the SPIE Symposium on X-Ray Optics 224(1980) :247—254.
Grindlay, J. “Gamma Ray Astronomy at Very High Energies.” Proceedings of 1980 International DUMAND Symposium 2(1981) :278—-86.
. “Identification of Two New X-Ray Bursters with the Globular Clusters Terzan 1 and Terzan 5.” International Astronomical Union Circular No. 3506.
Grindlay, J.; Branduardi, G.; and Fabian, A. “X-Ray Imaging Studies of NGC 1275 and the Core of the Perseus Cluster.” Highlights of Astronomy 5 (1980) :741—45.
Grindlay, J.; Marshall, H.; Hertz, P.; Soltan, A.; Weisskopf, M.; Elsner, R.; Ghosh, P.; Darbro, W.; and Sutherland, P. “Time Resolved Imaging and Spectral Studies of an X-Ray Burst from the Globular Cluster Terzan 2.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 240(1980) :L121—25.
Gull, G. E.; Russell, R. W.; Melnick, G.; and Harwit, M. “Far Infrared Polarization of the Kleinman-Low Nebula.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :1379— 81.
Gursky, H., and Davis, R. J. “Ultraviolet Emission from Strong X-Ray Sources as Observed with IUE.” Highlights of Astronomy 5(1980) :231—45.
Habbal, S. R., and Withbroe, G. L. “Spatial and Temporal Variations of EUV Coronal Bright Points.” Solar Physics 69(1981) :77—87.
Haisch, B. M.; Linsky, J. L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Rosner, R.; Seward, F. D.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Einstein x Ray Obeeranons of Proxima Centauri and the Surrounding Region.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 242(1980) :L99-103.
Haisch, B. M.; Linsky, J. L.; Slee, O. B.; Siegman, B. C.; Nikologg, I.; Candy, Isle Hanood: D.; weereen A.; Quinn, P. J.; Wilson, I.; Page, A. A.; ‘Higson,
P.; and Seward, EB D: “Simultaneous X-Ray, Ultraviolet, Optical, and Radio Observations of the Flare Star Proxima Centauri.” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :1009.
Halpern, J., and Grindlay, J. “Photoionization Nebulae Surrounding
Accretion X-Ray Sources.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
11(1980) :778.
440 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 455>>>

. “X-Ray Photoionized Nebulae.” Astrophysical Journal 242(1980): 1041-55.
Harnden, F. R., Jr. “X-Ray Telescope in Space Reveals Unseen Universe.” Smithsonian Magazine 11(1980) :110-14.
Harris, D. E. “A Review of Extragalactic Non-Thermal Sources.” Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada 74(1980) :109.
Harris, D. E.; Costain, C. H.; Strom, R. G.; Pineda, F. J., Delvaille, J. P.; and Schnopper, H. W. “Radio and X-Ray Observations of Abell 754.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 90(1980) :283.
Harris, D. E.; Kapahi, V. K.; and Ekers, R. D. “Westerbork Synthesis Observations of 8 Clusters of Galaxies Which Contain Tailed Radio Galaxies.” Astronomy and Astrophysics Journal Supplement 30(1980) :215.
Harris, D. E.; Lari, C.; Vallee, J. P.; and Wilson, A. S. ‘““Westerbork Observations of B2 Radio Sources in Abell Clusters of Galaxies.” Astronomy and Astrophysics Supplement 42(1980) :319.
Hartmann, L. W. “Observations and Theory of Mass Loss in Late-Type Stars.’ In Solar Phenomena in Stars and Stellar Systems, eds. R. M. Bonnet and A. K. Dupree, p. 331. Dordrecht, Holland; D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.
. “Stellar Spots—Physical Implications.” In Solar Phenomena in Stars and Stellar Systems, eds. R. M. Bonnet and A. K. Dupree, p. 487. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.
Hartmann, L.; Dupree, A. K.; and Raymond, J. C. “On the Relationship between Coronae and Mass Loss in Late-Type Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 246(1981) :193.
Hartmann, L., and MacGregor, K. B. “Solar-Type Phenomena on Late-Type Stars.” In Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 389, ed. A. K. Dupree, p. 15. Cambridge, Mass.: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 1980.
Haschick, A. D.; Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; Davis, M.; and Lilley, A. E. “VLBI Observations of the Double Quasar 0957+561.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 243(1981) :L57—59.
Haschick, A. D.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Miller, G. “VLBI Aperture Synthesis Observations of the OH Maser Source W75N.” Astrophysical Journal 244(1981) :76.
Heil, T. G.; Butler, S. E.; and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer of Multiply Charged Ions at Thermal Energies.” Physical Review A 23(1981) :1100-1109.
Henry, J. P.; Henriksen, M. J.; Charles, P. A.; and Thorstensen, J. A. ‘“Observations of the Two Components of the Abell 98 Cluster of Galaxies.’” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :L137—42.
Henry, J. P.; Soltan, A.; Tananbaum, H.; and Zamorani, G. “Constraint on Quasar Number Counts from Their Contribution to the X-Ray Background.” In Highlights of Astronomy, pp. 771-74. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Huchra, J. “The Optical Properties of the Unusual Galaxy Markarian 348.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 238(1980) :L11—12.
Humphreys, R. M.; Merrill, K. M.; and Black, J. H. “The Perplexing Spectrum of AFGL 2789 (V645 Cygni).” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 237(1980): L17-20.
Hutchings, J. B., and Dupree, A. K. “The Ultraviolet Spectrum and Flux of HD 152667 (=X-Ray Source 1653—40?).” Astrophysical Journal 240(1980) :161— 68.
Johansson, L. I.; Lindau, I.; Hecht, M.; and Kallne, E. “Photoelectron Branching Ratio in the 5d Subshell of Pt, Au and Pb Measured with Synchrotron Radiation.” Solid State Communications 34(1980) :83—86.
Johnston, M. C.; Bradt, H. V.; Doxsey, R. E.; Margon, B.; Marshall, F. E.; and
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 441

<<<Page: 456>>>

Schwartz, D. A. “The Ophiuchus Cluster: A Bright X-Ray Cluster of Galaxies at Low Latitude.” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :799-804.
Kahn, S. M.; Charles, P. A.; Mason, K. O.; and Tuohy, I. R. “Low Energy X-Ray Line Emission in IC443.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :799.
Kallne, E. “X-Ray Spectra and X-Ray Spectroscopy.” Encyclopedia of Physics” (1980) :1113-16. :
Kallne, E., and Jones, L. A. “Stark Broadening of He II 4686 A—A Direct Comparison of Predictions from Two Theories with Experiment.” Journal of Physics B 13(1980) :437-34.
Kanno, M.; Withbroe, G. L.; and Noyes, R. W. “Analysis of ExtremeUltraviolet Spectroheliograms of Solar Prominences.” Solar Physics 69 (1981) :313.
Koch, D.; Fazio, G. G.; Traub, W. A.; Rieke, G. H.; Gautier, T. N.; Hoffmann, W.. F.; Low, F. J.; Poteet, W.; Young, E. T.; Urban, E. W.j)andeleatze “Mapping the Infrared Background Radiation from the Shuttle.” Proceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 265(1981): Pas he
Kohl, J. L.; MacQueen, R. W.; Withbroe, G. L.; Munro, R.; and Weiser, H.  ‘““The Spacelab Lyman-Alpha and White-Light Coronagraphs Program.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1981) :713.
Kohl, J. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Zapata, C. A. “Solar Spectral Radiance and Irradiance at 225.2—319.6 Nanometers.” Astrophysical Journal, Supplement Series 44(1980) :295.
Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; Withbroe, G. L.; Noyes, R. W.; Parkinson, W. H.; Reeves, E. M.; MacQueen, R. M.; and Munro, R. H. “Measurements of Coronal Kinetic Temperatures from 1.5 to 3 Solar Radii.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 241(1980) :L117.
Knight, R. D. “Storage of Ions from Laser-Produced Plasmas.” Applied Physics Letters 38(1981) :221.
Knobloch, E., and Rosner, R. “On the Spectrum of Turbulent Magnetic Fields.” Astrophysical Journal 247(1981) :300-311.
Kurucz, R. L. “Semiempirical Calculation of gf Values.” In Supernova Spectra, eds. R. Meyerott and G. H. Gillespie, pp. 163-66. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1980.
. “Semiempirical Calculation of gf Values, IV: Fe II.” In Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 390, 1981.
Kurucz, R. L., and Avrett, E. H. “Solar Spectral Synthesis. I. A Sample Atlas from 224 to 300 nm.” Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 391, 1981.
Kwong, V. H. S. “Lifetime Measurements of Atoms in Compounds Embedded in Matrices Using Laser Selective Excitation and Ablation Dynamics.” Applied Optics 19(1980) :1025.
Lada, C. J.; Blitz, L.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. “VLBI Observations of the Water Vapor Maser in Cep A, GL2789, GL2139, H.059.78+ 0.06, W33 and U Orionis.” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :769-77.
Lane, A. P.; Ho, P. T. P.; Predmore, C. R.; Moran, J. M.; Genzel, R.; Hansen, S. S.; and Reid, M. J. “VLBI Observations of the V=1 and V=2 SiO Masers in W Hyda and VX Sagittarius.” In Interstellar Molecules, ed. B. Andrew, pp. 535-36. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Latham, D. W.; Liebert, J.; and Steiner, J. “The 1980 Low State of AM Herculis.” Astrophysical Journal 246(1981) :919.
Latham, D. W.; Weymann, R.; Angel, R.; Green, D.; Liebert, J.; Turnshek, D. E.; Turnshek, D.; and Tyson, J. A. “The Triple QSO PG1115=08: Another Probable Gravitational Lens.” Nature 285(1980) :641.
442 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 457>>>

Leahy, D.; Darbro, W.; Elsner, R. F.; Weisskopf, M. C.; Sutherland, P. G.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Kahn, S. M. “X-Ray Timing Observations of 4U1626-67.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :558.
Lecar, M.; Deckel, A.; and Shaham, J. “Tidal Effects on the Mass Profile of Galactic Halos.” Nature 286(1980) :135—36.
Lecar, M., and Katz, J. “Stability of the Grand Micro-Canonical Ensemble.” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :983-86.
Lecar, M.; Pryor, C.; Davis, M.; and Witten, E. “Galaxy Formation with Massive Neutrinos.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :861.
Levine, R. H. “Future Active Region Observations.” In Skylab Solar Workshop Series Monograph on Active Regions, ed. R. Q. Orrall, chapter 11. Boulder, Colo.: Associated University Press, 1980.
Levine, R. H., and Pye, J. P. “The Coronal and Transition Region Temperature Structure of a Solar Active Region.” Solar Physics 66(1980):39-60. Lightman, A. P. “Double Compton Emission in Radiation-Dominated Thermal
Plasmas.” Astrophysical Journal 244(1981) :392.
Lightman, A.; Hertz, P.; and Grindlay, J. “A New Statistical Test with Application to Globular Cluster X-Ray Sources Masses.” Astrophysical Journal 241(1980) :367-73.
Liller, M. H. “A Color-Magnitude Diagram for the Globular Cluster NGC 6235.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :673-79.
. “A Color-Magnitude Diagram for the Globular Cluster NGC 6535.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :1480-85.
Liller, M. H. “A Photometric History of KR Aurigae.”” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :1092-97.
. “The Variable Stars in the Globular Cluster NGC 6101.” Astronomical Journal (August 1981).
Liller, M. H. Cowley, A. P.; Hodge, P. W.; Kerr, F. J.; and Morrison, N. D.  Report of the Committee on the Status of Women—American Astronomical Society.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :624-35.
Liller, M. H., and Hesser, J. E. “Constraints on Possible Long-Term Variability of ZZ Ceti Stars.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 92(1980) :319.
Liller, M. H., and Tokarz, S. P. “Radial Velocities and Memberships of Three Variables in the Globular Clusters NGC 6838 anad NGC 5139.” Astronomical Journal 86(1981) :669-70.
Liller, W., and Alcaino, G. “IR Bright Stars in the Region of the Galactic Center.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :532—37.
Lombardi, G. G.; Cardon, B. L.; and Kurucz, R. L. “Measurements of the Absolute Oscillator Strengths and Total Line Widths of the Neutral Aluminum (Al I) Autoionizing Multiplet 3s°3p°P — 3s3p*°P at 176 nm.” Astrophysical Journal (September 15, 1981).
McCann, D. M.; Peckerar, M. C.; Mend, W.; Schwartz, D.; Griffiths, R. E.; Polucci, G.; and Zombeck, M. V. “Area Array X-Ray Sensors.” Proceedings of SPIE Symposium 217(1980) :118—28.
McClintock, J.; Canizares, C.; Li, F.; and Grindlay, J. “Simultaneous X-Ray and Optical Studies of the 7 X-Ray Pulsar 4U1626—67.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 235(1980) :L81-85.
McKenzie, D. P.; Watts, A. B.; Parsons, B. E.; and Roufosse, M. C. “The Plan Form of Mantle Convection Beneath the Pacific Ocean.” Nature 288(1980): 442-46.
McMillan, S. L. W.; Flannery, B. P.; and Press, W. H. “Nonlinear Hydrodynamics of Acoustic Instabilities in Diffuse Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal 240(1980) :488.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 443

<<<Page: 458>>>

Maccacaro, T.; Fener, M.; Giacconi, R.; Griffiths, R.; Murray, S. S.; and Zamorani, G. “Medium Sensitivity Survey with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :874.
Machado, M. E.; Avrett, E. H.; Vernazza, J. E.; and Noyes, R. W. “Semiempirical Models of Chromospheric Flare Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 242(1981) :336-51.
Martin, C.; Lampton, M.; and Kahn, S. M. “The Low Energy X-Ray Spectrum of Sirius B.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :871.
Marvin, U. B. “Apollo 16 Breccia 67015: First Observations on a Consortium Rock.” Lunar and Planetary Science XII, part 2 (1981) 653-54.
. “Magnesium Carbonate and Magnesium Sulfate Deposits on Antarctic Meteorites.” Antarctic Journal XV (5)(1980) :54—55.
Marvin, U. B., and Mason, B., editors. “Catalog of Antarctic Meteorites, 1977-1978.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, No. 23. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Marvin, U. B., and Mosie, A. B. “Apollo 15 Soil Catalog, 61220, Classification and Description of 1-4 mm Fines.” NASA Johnson Space Center, Curatorial Branch Publication 53, 1980.
Marvin, U. B.; Stoffler, D.; Simonds, C. H.; and Warren, P. H. “Recommended —
Classification and Nomenclature of Lunar Highlands Rocks—A Committee
Report.” Proceedings of the Conference of the Lunar Highlands Crust, Geo—
chimica et Cosmochimica Acta Supplement 12(1980) :51—70.
Marvin, U. B., and Warren, P. H. “A Pristine Eucrite-Like Gabbro from Descartes and Its Exotic Kindred.” Proceedings of the Eleventh Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 1(1980): 507—24'.
Melnick, G., and Harwit, M. “Infrared Lines from Shocked Galactic Gases.” |
Proceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 280(1981) :120.
Mendez, R. H.; Lee, P. O’Brien, A.; and Liller, W. “The Disappearance of V-V 1-7 and the Nature of Its Central Stars.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 91(1980) :331-34.
Moran, J. M., and Rodriguez, L. F. “Water Vapor Masers and Star Formation in NGC 6334.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 236(1980) :L159-63.
Moran, J. M., and Rosen, B. R. “The Estimation of the Propagation Delay Through the Troposphere from Microwave Radiometer Data.” Radio Science 16(1981) :235—44.
Nagy, A. F.; Cravens, T. E.; Yee, J.-H.; and Stewart, A. I. F. “Hot Oxygen Atoms in the Upper Atmosphere of Venus.” Geophysical Research Letters 8(1981) :629.
Pallavicini, R.; Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; Vaiana, G. S.; Ayres, T.; and Linsky, J. L. “Relations Among Stellar X-Ray Emission Observed from Einstein, Stellar Rotation and Bolometric Luminosity.” Astrophysical Journal 248 (1981) :279-90.
Peterson, D. M.; Baron, R. L.; Dunham, E.; Mink, D.; Weekes, T. C.; and Elliot, J. L. “Lunar Occultations of the Hyades: 1979-1980.” Astronomical Journal 86(1980) :280.
Press, W. H. “Man’s Size in Terms of Fundamental Constants.” American Journal of Physics 48(1980) :597.
. Radiative and Other Effects from Internal Waves in Solar and Stellar
Interiors.” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :286.
. “Turbulent Erosion of a Stably Stratified Fluid as a Test of Intermittency Models.” Journal of Fluid Mechanics 107(1981) :455.
Prior, M. H., and Knight, R. D. “Fluorescence of Optically Pumped Trapped Ions.” Optics Communications 35(1980) :54.
444 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 459>>>

Pye, J. P.; Pounds, K. A.; Rolf, D. P.; Seward, F.; Smith, A.; and Willingale, R. “An X-Ray Map of SN 1006 from the Einstein Observatory.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 194(1981) :569.
Radford, H. E. “The Fast Reaction of CH»OH with O2.” Chemical Physics Letfers 71(1980) :195—97.
Radford, H. E. “Far-Infrared LMR Detection of Hydroxymethyl.” Chemical Physics Letters 78(1981) :589-91.
Raymond, J. C.; Black, J. H.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and Wolff, R. S. “Ultraviolet Emission of the Vela Supernova Remnant and the Cygnus Loop.” Astrophysical Journal 246(1981) :100-109.
Raymond, J. C.; Branduardi, G.; Dupree, A. K.; Fabbiano, G.; and Hartmann, L. “Ultraviolet Observations of AM Herculis.” In Close Binary Stars: Observations and Interpretation, eds. M. J. Plavec, D. M. Popper, and R. K. Ulrich, pp. 467-69. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Raymond, J. C., and Doyle, J. G. “Emissivities of Strong Ultraviolet Lines.” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :1141.
Reid, C.; Johnston, M.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; Griffiths, R. E.; and Schwartz, D. “Unidentified Galactic X-Ray Sources Positioned with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Astronomical Journal 85(1980) :1062-70.
Reid, M. J., and Moran, J. M. “Masers.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics 19(1981) :231-76.
Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Johnston, K. J. “Observations of Stellar OH Masers with the VLA.” Astronomical Journal 86(1981) :897.
Roberge, W. G.; Dalgarno, A.; and Flannery, B. P. “Photoionization and Photodissociation in Diffuse Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :817—-26.
Roche, A. L.; Kirby, K.; Guberman, S. L.; and Dalgarno, A. “Photoionization of Molecular Oxygen in the X*2z and a° A, States.” Journal of Electron Spectroscopy and Related Phenomena 22(1981) :223-35.
Rodriguez, L. F., and Chaisson, E. J. “Observations of HC;N and HC.N in Sgr B2 and Cloud 2.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 192(1980) :651.
Rodriguez, L. F.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Moran, J. M. “Anisotropic Mass Outflow in Cepheus A.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 240(1980) :L149—-52.
Rodriguez, L. F.; Moran, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Gottlieb, E. W. “Radio Observations of Water Vapor, Hydroxyl, Silicon Monoxide, Ammonia, Carbon Monoxide, and Compact H II Regions in the Vicinities of Herbig-Haro Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 235(1980) :845—65.
Rosner, R. “Solar Physics at Taos.” Nature 290(1981) :734—35.
. “Stellar Coronae: Interpretation and Modeling of Stellar Activity.” In Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 389, ed. A. Dupree, pp. 79-96. Cambridge, Mass.: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 1981.
Rosner, R., and Vaiana, G. S. “Stellar Coronae from Einstein: Observations and Theory.” In X-Ray Astronomy, eds. R. Giacconi and G. Setti, pp. 129-51. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Roufosse, M. C., and Jeanloz, R. “Behavior of the Grueisen Parameter and the Thermal Conductivity Through Phase Changes.” Transactions of the American Geophysical Union 61(1980) :1104.
Roufosse, M. C.; Parsons, B.; McKenzie, D.; and Watts, A. ““Geoid
and Depth Anomalies in the Indian Ocean.” Transactions of the American Geophysical Union 62(1981) :389.
Russell, R. W.; Melnick, G.; Gull, G. E.; and Harwit, M. “Detection of the 157 Micron (1910 GHz) Emission from the Interstellar Gas Complexes NGC 2024 and M42.” Astrophysical Journal 240(1980) :L99-103.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 445

<<<Page: 460>>>

Russell, R. W.; Melnick, G.; Gull, G. E.; and Harwit, M. “Far-Infrared Emission Line and Continuum Observations of NGC 7027.” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :170.
Russell, D. K., and Radford, H. E. “Analysis of the LMR Spectra of Methoxy.” Journal of Chemical Physics 72(1980) :2750-59.
Sakurai, T. “Calculation of Force-Free Magnetic Field with Non-Constant a.” Solar Physics 69(1981) :343.
Schild, R. “CCD Camera Observations of Local Group Galaxy LGS-3.” Astrophysical Journal 242(1980) :63—65.
Schild, R.; Gursky, H.; Geary, J.; Stephenson, T.; and Weekes, T. “Astronomical Performance of the 512 X 320 RCA CCD.” In Applications of Digital Image Processing to Astronomy, ed. D. Elliot, vol. 264. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Instrumentation Engineers, 1980.
Schild, R.; Leach, R.; Gursky, H.; Madejski, G.; Schwartz, D.; and Weekes, T. “Description, Performance, and Calibration of a Charge Coupled Device Camera.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 92(1980): 233—45.
Schwartz, D. A. “Compact Extragalactic X-Ray Sources and the Diffuse Background.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society 26(1981): 528.
Schwartz, D. A.; Davis, M.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, R. E.; Huchra, J.; Johnston, M. D.; Mushotzky, R. F.; Swank, J.; and Tonry, J. ““HEAO-1 Identification of the X-Ray Emitting Poor Clusters of Galaxies AWM7.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 238(1980) :L53—58.
Schwartz, D. A., and Ku, W. H.-M. “An Einstein Observatory Survey of X-Ray Emission from BL Lac Objects.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :873.
Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.; and Tucker, W. “X-Ray Emission from Compact Groups of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 238(1980) :L59-62.
Serio, S.; Peres, G.; Vaiana, G. S.; Golub, L.; and Rosner, R. “Closed Coronal | Structures. II. Generalized Hydrostatic Model.” Astrophysical Journal 243 (1981) :288-300.
Seward, F. “X-Ray Astronomy.” 1981 Yearbook of Science and Technology, pp. 401-5. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1981.
Seward, F.; Grindlay, J.; Seaquist, E.; and Gilmore, W. “Diffuse X-Ray Emission from the Jets of $5433.” Nature 287(1980) :806-8.
Seward, F. D., and Mitchell, M. “X-Ray Survey of the Small Magellanic Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :736.
Shorer, P. “An R-Matrix Approach to the Calculation of Dynamic Dipole Polarizabilities and Two-Photon Photoionization Cross Sections.” Journal of Physics B 13(1980) :2921.
. “R-Matrix Dynamic Dipole Polarizabilities.” Computational Physics Communications 22(1981) :467.
Slattery, W. L.; DeCampli, W. M.; and Cameron, A. G. W. “Protoplanetary Core Formation by Rain-Out of Minerals.” The Moon and the Planets 23 (1980) :381.
Slowey, J. “Models of the Geomagnetic Effect in the Earth’s Thermosphere.” Advances in Space Research 1(1980) :213-19.
Smith, J. “Cloud-Cloud Collisions in the Interstellar Medium.” Astrophysical Journal 238(1980) :842.
Smith, P. L.; Lombardi, G. G.; Cardon, B. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Vacuum Ultraviolet Mach-Zehnder Interferometer with CaF: Optics.” Applied Optics 20(1981) :647.
Smith, P. L.; Yoshino, K.; Black, J. H.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Oscillator Strengths for Lines of the (0,0) and (1,0) Bands of the C' 7 — X*=+ System of HCI and the Abundance of HCl in Diffuse Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal 238(1980) :874—80.
446 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 461>>>

Steiner, J., and Grindlay, J. “Fe II Lines in X-Ray Selected QSOs.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :536.
Stier, M. T.; Silverberg, R. F.; Cheung, L. H.; Hauser, M. G.; Kelsall, T.; and Gezari, D. Y. “Submillimeter Sky Survey of the Galactic Plane.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :537.
Tananbaum, H. ‘Einstein Observations of Active Galaxies.” In X-Ray Astronomy, eds. R. Giacconi and G. Setti, pp. 291-310. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
. “Einstein Observations of Quasars.” In X-Ray Astronomy, eds. R. Giacconi and G. Setti, pp. 311-26. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1980.
Tatchyn, R.; Lindau, I.; and Kallne, E. “Analysis of a Method for Determining Optical Constants in the Soft X-Ray Region.” Nuclear Instrumentation and Methods 172(1980) :315-19.
. “Analysis of a New Method for Determining Optical Constants in the Soft X-Ray Region.” Optica Acta 27(1980) :1536.
Traub, W. A., and Gursky, H. “Coherent Arrays for Optical Astronomy in Space.” In Optical and Infrared Telescopes for the 1990s, ed. A. Hewitt, pp. 250-62. Arizona: Kitt Peak National Observatory, 1980.
Treves, A.; Chiappetti, L.; Tanzi, E. G.; Tarenghi, M.; Gursky, H.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L. W.; Raymond, J.; Davis, R. J.; Black, J.; Matilsky, T. A.; Vanden Bout, P.; Sanner, F.; Pollard, G.; Sanford, P. W.; Joseph, R. D.; and Meikle, W. P. S. “Ultraviolet, X-Ray and Infrared Observations of HDE 226868 = Cyg X-1.” Astrophysical Journal 242(1980) :1114—23.
Tucker, W. H. “Apollos and Thunderstones.” Star and Sky 9(1980) :36.
. “Striking It Rich with $9433.” Star and Sky 7(1980) :28.
. “Supernova, Dinosaurs and Us.” Mercury IX (1980) :95.
. “The Andromeda Galaxy.” Star and Sky 12(1980) :23.
. “X-Ray Astronomy.” In Encyclopedia of Physics, eds. R. Lerner and G. Trigg. Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., 1981.
Tucker, W. H.; Giacconi, R.; Gorenstein, P.; Murray, S.; Schreier, E.; Seward, F.; Tananbaum, H.; and VanSpeybroeck, L. ‘The Einstein Observatory and Future X-Ray Telescopes.” In Telescopes for the 1980's, pp. 195-278. Palo Alto, Calif.: Annual Reviews, 1981.
Tucker, W. H.; Schwartz, D.; and Schwarz, J. “X-Ray Emission from Compact Groups of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 238(1980) :L59.
Uzer, T., and Dalgarno, A. “The Photodissociation of Liz.” Chemical Physics 51(1980) :271-77.
Vaiana, G. S.; Cassinelli, J. P.; Fabbiano, G.; Giacconi, R.; Golub, L. Gorenstein, P.; Haisch, B. M.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Johnson, H. M.; Linsky, J. L.; Maxson, C. W.; Mewe, R.; Rosner, R.; Seward, F.; Topka, K.; and Zwaan, C. “Results from an Extensive Einstein Stellar Survey.” Astrophysical Journal 244 (1981) :163-72.
Vernazza, J. E.; Avrett, E. H.; and Loeser, R. L. “Structure of the Solar Chromosphere. III. Models of the EUV Brightness Components of the Quiet Sun.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 45(1981) :635—725.
Watson, M. G., and Griffiths, R. E. “Einstein Observations of M 82.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1980) :873.
Weekes, T. C. “Astronomical Uses of Large Solar Concentrators.” In Proceedings of the Solar Thermal Test Facilities Users Association, Series 9020-12, New Mexico, 1980.
Weinberg, S. “Conceptual Foundations of the Unified Theory of Weak and Electromagnetic Interactions.” (Nobel Address, December 1979.) Les Prix Nobel 1979, pp. 105-23. Stockholm, Sweden: Nobel Foundation, 1980; Reviews of Modern Physics 52(1980) :515; Science 210(1980) :1212.
. “Expectations for Baryon and Lepton Nonconservation.” In First Work-
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 447

<<<Page: 462>>>

shop on Grand Unification, pp. 347-62. Brookline, Mass.: Math-Sci Pres
1980.
. “Effective Gauge Theories.” Physics Letters 91B(1980) :51.
Weinberg, S. “Varieties of Baryon and Lepton Nonconservation.” Physical Re view D 22(1980) :1694.
. “The Decay of the Proton.” Scientific American (June 1981).
Weinberg, S., and Witten, E. “Limits on Massless Particles.” Physics Letters 96B(1980) :59. \
Weiser, H.; Kohl, J. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Withbroe, G. L. _ i Coronaeraghic FAS iamene -Alpha Observations Following the 1980 Solar Eclipse.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12(1981) :917.
Withbroe, G. L.; Kohl, J. L.; and Weiser, H. “Implications of Lyman a Medeememnent on Coronal Electron and Proton Temperatures between 2.0 and 4.0 R@.” Bulletin of the American Astromical Society 12(1981) :917. f
Wood, J. A. “On the Nature of the Pallasite Body: Midcourse Corrections.” Lunar and Planetary Science XII (1980) :1200—1202.
. “Thoughts on CAI’s, Oxygen Isotopes, and REE.” Meteoritics 15(1980):
388.
Yee, J.-H.; Abreu, V. J.; and Hays, P. B. “The O II (7320-30 A) Airglow: A —
Morphological Study.” Journal of Geophysical Research 86(1981) :1564.
Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Photoelectric Scanning —
(6.65 m) Spectrometer for VUV Cross-Section Measurements.” Applied Optics 19(1980) :66.
Young, E. T.; Rieke, G.; Gautier, T. N.; Hoffmann, W. F.; Low, F. J.; Poteet, W.; Fazio, G. G.; Koch, D.; Traub, W. A.; Urban, E.; and Katz, L. “Tegs Results of the Spacelab 2 Infrared Telescope Focal Plane.” Proceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 280(1981) :20.
Zamorani, G.; Henry, J. P.; Maccacaro, T.; Tananbaum, H.; Soltan, A.; Avni, —
Y.; Liebert, J.; Stacke, J.; Strittmatter, P. A.; Weymann, R. J.; Smith, M. G.; and Condon, J. J. “X-Ray Studies of Quasars with the Einstein Observatory (II).” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :357-74.
Zombeck, M. V. “Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility (AXAF).” Optical Engineering (March/April 1981) :297—309.
Zombeck, M. “High Resolution X-Ray Scattering Measurements for AXAF.”
Proceedings of the SPIE Symposium on Radiation Scattering in Optical Sys-
tems 257(1980) :230—47.
Zutavern, F. J.; Schnatterly, S. E.; Kallne, E.; Franck, C. P.; and Aton, T. “A Positive Sensitive Photon Detector for the UV or X-Ray Range.” Nuclear Instrumentation and Methods 172(1980) :351-55.
Abrams, Peter A. “Resource Partitioning and Interspecific Competition in a Tropical Hermit Crab Community.” Oecologia 46(3) (1980) :365—79.
Achurra Cardenas, Juan Bosco, and Aratiz, Eduardo Valdés. Estudios sobre los Efectos Predatorios de los Moluscos Coralliphila abbreviata y Jenneria pustulata de Ambos Litorales del Istmo de Panama. Tesis, Universidad de Panama, 1980.
Aiello, Annette. “Life History of Dysodia sica (Lepidoptera: Thyrididae) in Panama.” Psyche 87(1—2) (1980) :121—30.
. “Systropus columbianus (Diptera: Bombyllidae) Reared from the Larva of a Limacodid Moth.” Entomological News 91(3)(1980) :89—91.
Andrews, Robin M., and Sexton, Owen J. “Water Relations of the Eggs of Anolis auratus and Anolis limifrons.” Ecology 62(3) (1981) :556—62.
Aratiz Moran, Arsenio; Jules, Guillermo; and Quintero Chung, Vielka. Estudio Ecolégico de la Entomofauna de la Capa Baja en Parcelas Experimentales en el Lago Alajuela. Tesis, Universidad de Panama, 1980.
448 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 463>>>

Augspurger, Carol K. “Reproductive Synchrony on Effects of Pollinators and Seed Predators on Hybanthus prunifolius (Violaceae).” Ecology 62(3)(1981): 775-88.
Batista A., Victoria E. Estudio de las Comunidades que Habitan las Raices del Mangle Rojo Rhizophora mangle L. de Punta Galeta, Costa Atlantica de Panama. Tesis, Fundacién Universidad de Bogota Jorge Tadeo Lozano, 1980.
Batten, Mary. “The Cradle of Life.” Science Digest 89(6)(1981) :93—97, 118, 119.
Bertness, Mark D. “Competitive Dynamics of a Tropical Hermit Crab Assemblage.” Ecology 62(3)(1981) :751-61.
. “The Influence of Shell-Type on Hermit Crab Growth Rate and Clutch
Size (Decapoda, Anomura).”’ Crustaceana 40(2) (1981) :197—205.
. “Interference, Exploitation, and Sexual Competition in a Tropical Her-
mit Crab Assemblage.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology
49(2) (1981) :189—202.
. “Pattern and Plasticity in Tropical Hermit Crab Growth and Repro-
duction.” The American Naturalist 117(5) (1981) :754—73.
. “Predation, Physical Stress, and the Organization of a Tropical Rocky
Intertidal Hermit Crab Community.” Ecology 62(2)(1981) :411-—25.
. “Shell Preference and Utilization Patterns in Littoral Hermit Crabs of the Bay of Panama.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 48(1)(1980) :1-16.
Bertness, Mark D., and Cunningham, Clifford. “Crab Shell-Crushing Predation and Gastropod Architectural Defense.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 50(2—3) (1981) :213—30.
Bonaccorso, Frank J.; Glanz, William E.; and Sandford, Clark M. “Feeding Assemblages of Mammals at Fruiting Dipteryx panamensis (Papilionaceae) Trees in Panama: Seed Predation, Dispersal and Parasitism.”” Revista de Biologia Tropical 28(1)(1980) :61—72.
Buchmann, Stephen L. ‘Preliminary Anthecological Observations on Xiphidium caeruleum Aubl. (Monocotyledoneae: Haemodoraceae) in Panama.” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 53(4)(1981) :685—99.
Cooke, Richard G. ‘““Arqueologia de Coclé (5,000 a.c.—1520 d.c.).” Loteria 301—302(1981) :136—45.
. “Los Habitos Alimentarios de los Indigenas Precolombinos de Panama.” Revista Médica de Panama 6(1)(1981) :65—-89.
Cooke, Richard G., and Pacheco, Beatriz R. de. “El Convento de Santo Domingo: Microcosmo de una Ciudad Dinamica.” La Estrella de Panama, suplemento dominical 1stMo 17(1981).
De Alba, Georgina A. “Implicaciones Ecologicas de las Transformaciones Geograficas Ocasionadas por la Construccion del Canal de Panama.” Loteria 292(1981) :74—79.
. “Ventajas y Desventajas de un Ejemplo de Comportamiento Animal.” La Estrella de Panama, suplemento dominical 1stmo, (Agosto 2)(1981) :32. De Long, Dwight M., Wolda, Henk, and Estribi, Miguel. “The Xestocephaline Leafhoopers (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) Known To Occur in Panama.”
Brenesia 17(1980) :251—80.
Derr, Janice A. ‘“‘Light-Trap Catches of Dysdercus bimaculatus Stahl (Heteroptera: Pyrrhocorida) in Relation to Weather and the Fruiting Cycles of Its Host-Plants.” Bulletin of Entomological Research 71(1)(1981) :47—56.
Dressler, Robert L. “Checklist of the Orchids of Panama.” In Orchids of Panama, pp. i-xxvi. Saint Louis: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1980.
. “Una Encyclia Feita de Panama Occidental: Encyclia fortunae Dres-
sler.” Orquidea (México) 7(4) (1980) :353-56.
. “El Género Neowilliamsia Garay.” Orquidea (México) 8(1)(1981):
27-31.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 449

<<<Page: 464>>>

. “The Genus Neowilliamsia Garay.” Orquidea (México) 8(1)(1981): 31-36.
. “A Homely Little Encyclia from Western Panama: Encyclia fortunae Dressler.” Orquidea (México) 7(4) (1980) :357-59. . “A New Name for the Dwarf Purple Anthurium.” Aroideana 3(1980):
. The Orchids: Natural History and Classification. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press, 1981.
. “Orphan Orchids I, Wullschlaegelia: A New Tribe, Wullschlaegelieae.”
Orquidea (México), 7(4) (1980) :280-82.
. “Orphan Orchids II, Cryptarrhena; A New Tribe, Cryptarrheneae.”
Orquidea (México), 7(4) (1980) :286—88.
. “Orguideas Huérfanas I, Wullschlaegelia; Una Nueva Tribu, Wull-
schlaegelieae.” Orquidea (México), 7(4) (1980) :277—80.
. “Orquideas Huérfanas II, Cryptarrhena: Una Nueva Tribu, Cryptarrheneae.” Orquidea (México), 7(4)(1980) :283-86.
Downing, Holly A. “The Foraging and Migratory Behavior of the Ponerine ant, Termitopone laevigata.” B.S. Thesis, Smith College, 1980.
Eberhard, William G. “Evolutionary Consequences of Intracellular Organelle © Competition.” Quarterly Review of Biology 55(3)(1980) :231—49.
Fisher, Eric A. “Sexual Allocation in a Simultaneously Hermaphroditic Coral Reef Fish.” The American Naturalist 117(1)(1981) :64—82.
Flowers, R. Willis. “Orchids of Fortuna, Panama.” American Orchid Society Bulletin 50(8) (1981) :920-24.
Fontaine, Roy. “Observations on the Foraging Association of Double-Toothed Kites and White-Faced Capuchin Monkeys.” The Auk 97(1)(1980) :94-98. Gaulin, Steven J. C.; Knight, Dennis H.; and Gaulin, Cynthia K. “Local Variance in Alouatta Group Size and Food Availability on Barro Colorado
Island.” Biotropica, 12(2)(1980) :137—43.
Glynn, Peter W. “Defense by Symbiotic Crustacea of Host Corals Elicited by Chemical Cues from Predator.” Oecologia 47(3) (1980) :287—90.
Greenberg, Russell. ‘“Dissimilar Bill Shapes in New World Tropical Versus Temperate Forest Foliage-Gleaning Birds.” Oecologia 49(2)(1981) :143—47. Greenberg, Russell, and Gradwohl, Judy. “Leaf Surface Specializations of Birds
and Arthropods in a Panamanian Forest.” Oecologia, 46(1)(1980) :115—24.
. “Observations of Paired Canada Warblers Wilsonia canadiensis dur— ing Migration in Panama.” The Ibis 122(4) (1980) :509—12.
Greer, Beverly J., and Wells, Kentwood D. ‘Territorial and Reproductive Behavior of the Tropical American Frog Centrolenella fleischmanni.” Herpetologica 36(4) (1980) :318—26.
Hay, Mark E. Algal Ecology on a Caribbean Fringing Reef. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, 1980.
Hladik, Annette, and Hladik, Claude M. “Utilisation d’un Ballon Captif pour l'étude du Couvert Végétal en Forét Dense Humide.” Adansonia, ser 2, 19(3) (1980) :325—36.
Howe, Henry F., and Vande Kerckhove, Gayle A. “Nutmeg Dispersal by Tropical Birds.” Science 210(4472) (1980) :925—27.
Janos, David P. ‘“Mycorrhizae Influence Tropical Succession.” Biotropica, supplement to vol. 12 (1980) :56—64.
Karr, James R. “Patterns in the Migration System between the North Temperate Zone and the Tropics.” In Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior and Conservation, eds. Allen Keast and Eugene S. Morton, pp. 529— 43. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Kimsey, Lynn Siri. “The Behaviour of Male Orchid Bees (Apidae, Hymenop— tera, Insecta) and the Question of Leks.” Animal Behaviour 28(4)(1980): | 996-1004.
. “Notes on the Biology of Some Panamanian Pompilidae, with a De—
450 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 465>>>

scription of a Communal Nest (Hymenoptera).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist 56(2) (1980) :98—100.
Lasker, Howard R. “Sediment Rejection by Reef Corals: The Roles of Behavior and Morphology in Montastrea cavernosa (Linnaeus).” Journal of Marine Biology and Ecology 47(1)(1980) :77-87.
Leigh, Egbert G. “The Average Lifetime of a Population in a Varying Environment.” Journal of Theoretical Biology 90(2) (1981) :213—39.
Lessios, Harilaos A. “Evidencia Preliminar de una Duplicacioén del gen en la Evolucién de la Clase Echinoidea.” Revista Médica de Panama 6(1)(1981): 46-55.
. “Reproductive Periodicity of the Echinoids Diadema and Echinometra of the Two Coasts of Panama.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 50(1)(1981) :47-61.
Linares, Olga F. “From Tidal Swamp to Inland Valley: On the Social Organization of Wet Rice Cultivation among the Diola of Senegal.” Africa 51(2) (1981) :557-95.
. A review of “Hombres y ecologia en Panama.” La Republica, 26 de
Julio (1981) :8—F.
. A review of “Parmana.” Science 213(4507) (1981) :533-35.
Linares, Olga F., and Ranere, Anthony J., editors. Adaptive Radiations in Prehistoric Panama. Peabody Museum Monographs No. 5. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University, 1980.
Lubchenco, Jane, and Cubit, John. ‘“Heteromorphic Life Histories of Certain Marine Algae as Adaptations to Variations in Herbivory.” Ecology 61(3) (1980) :676-—87.
Lubin, Yael D. “Population Studies of Two Colonial Orb-Weaving Spiders.” Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 70(3)(1980) :265—87.
McHargue, Laurie A. “Black Vulture Nesting, Behavior, and Growth.” The Auk 98(1) (1981) :182-85.
Miguelena, de Leon, Bruno O., Jr., and Navas, Rafael E. Dinamica de los Cladoceros Limnéticos en el Lago Gatun. Tesis, Universidad de Panama, 1981.
Milton, Katharine. “Food Choice and Digestive Strategies of Two Sympatric Primate Species.” The American Naturalist 117(4)(1981) :496—505.
. The Foraging Strategy of Howler Monkeys: A Study in Primate Economics. New York: Columbia University Press, 1980.
Milton, Katherine; Van Soest, P. J.; and Robertson J. B. “Digestive Efficiencies of Wild Howler Monkeys.” Physiological Zoology 53(4) (1980) :402-9.
Montgomery, G. Gene; Shad, Rebeca; and De Alba, Georgina. “E] Manati Ha Regresado a las Aguas del Canal.” La Prensa 6 de Septiembre (1981).
Morrison, Douglas W., and Morrison, Susan H. “Economics of Harem Maintenance by a Neotropical Bat.” Ecology 62(3)(1981) :864—66.
Morton, Eugene S. “Adaptations to Seasonal Changes by Migrant Land Birds in the Panama Canal Zone.” In Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior and Conservation, edited by Allen Keast and Eugene S. Morton, pp. 437-53. Washington, D.C.: Smtihsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Moynihan, Martin. “The Coincidence of Mimicries and Other Misleading Coincidences.” The American Naturalist 117(3) (1981) :372-78.
Nagy, Kenneth A., and Montgomery, G. Gene. “Field Metabolic Rate, Water Flux, and Food Consumption in Three-Toed Sloths (Bradypus variegatus).” Journal of Mammalogy 61(3) (1980) :465—72.
Ocafia, Gilberto. “La Misién del Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (stRI1) en Panama y en el Trdépico en General.” Revista Médica de Panama 6(1) (1981) :3-12.
Overall, Karen L. “Coatis, Tapirs, and Ticks: A Case of Mammalian Interspecific Grooming. Biotropica 12(2)(1980) :158.
Pickering, John. Sex Ratio, Social Behavior and Ecology in Polistes (Hymenop-
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 451

<<<Page: 466>>>

tera Ichneumonidae) and Plasmodium (Protozoa, Haemosporida). Ph.D. dis. sertation, Harvard University, 1980.
Pressley, Peter H. ‘Lunar Periodicity in the Spawning of Yellowtail Demselfis Microspathodon chrysurus.” Environmental Biology of Fishes 5(2)(1980) 153-59.
Puga, Cecilio R., and Rodriguez T., Osvaldo. Efecto de Micorriza en el Crecimiento de Zea mays L. Tesis, Universidad de Panama, 1980. 7
Putz, Francis E. “Lianas vs. Trees.” Biotropica 12(3)(1980) :224—25.
Rand, A. Stanley, and Dugan, Beverly. “Iguana Egg Mortality within the Nest.” Copeia 3(1980) :531—34.
Ricklefs, Robert E. “ ’Watch-dog’ Behaviour Observed at the Nest of a Cooperative Breeding Bird, the Rufous-Margined Flycatcher Myiozetetes cayanensis.” The Ibis 122(1)(1980) :116-18.
Robbins, Robert K. “The Lycaenid “False Head” Hypothesis: Historical Re-
view and Quantitative Analysis.” Jorunal of the Lepidopterists’ Society,
34(2)(1980) :194—208.
Roberts, Tyson R. “A Revision of the Asian Mastacembelid Fish Genus Macrognathus.” Copeia 3(1980) :194—208.
. “Sundasalangidae, a New Family of Minute Freshwater Salmoniform
Fishes from Southeast Asia.” Proceedings of the California Academy of —
Sciences 42(9)(1981) :295—302. Robertson, D. Ross; Hoffman, Steven G.; and Sheldon, Janice M. “The Avail-
ability of Space for the Territorial Caribbean Damselfish Eupomacentrus —
planifrons.” (An Abstract). In “Biology of Damselfishes,” Bulletin of Marine Science 30(1980) :327.
Robertson, D. Ross, and Polunin, N. V. C. “Coexistence: Symbiotic Sharing of Feeding Territories and Algal Food by Some Coral Reef Fishes from the Western Indian Ocean.” Marine Biology 62(1981) :185—95.
Robinson, Michael H. “A la Primera Luz del Amanecer: Apareamiento Matutino y Atrayentes Sexuales en una Mantis Neotropical.” Conciencia 2(1980): 4-6.
. “Existe Realmente una Biologia Tropical?” Revista Médica de Panama 6(1)(1981) :13-45.
Roubik, David M. “A Natural Mixed Colony of Melipona (Hymenoptera: Apidae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 54(2)(1981) :263-68.
Guiana (Hymenoptera: Apidae). Revista de Biologia Tropical 28(2)(1980): 263-69. Ruiz R., Argelis, and Rand, A. Stanley. “Las Iguanas y el Hombre en Pana.” Revista Médica de Panama 6(1)(1981) :118-26.
Ryan, Michael J.; Tuttle, Merlin D.; and Taft, Lucinda K. “The Cost and Benefits of Frog Chorusing Behavior.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 8(4) (1981) :273-78.
Smith, Alan P. “The Paradox of Plant Height in an Andean Giant Rosette Plant.” Journal of Ecology 68(1)(1980) :63—73.
Stoecker, Diane. “Distribution of Acid and Vanadium in Rhopalaea birkelandi Tokioka.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 48(3) (1980) :277-81.
Toft, Catherine A. “Seasonal Variation in Populations of Panamanian Litter Frogs and Their Prey: A Comparison of Wetter and Drier Sites.” Oecologia 47(1) (1980) :34—-38.
Vawter, A. Thomas; Rosenblatt, Richard; and Gorman, George C. “Genetic Divergence among Fishes of the Eastern Pacific and the Caribbean: Support for the Molecular Clock.” Evolution 34(4)(1980) :705—11.
Ventocilla, Jorge L. “El Parque Nacional Soberania como Parte Esencial de Nuestro Patrimonio Natural.” ConCiencia 8(1) (1981) :23.
452 / Smithsonian Year 1981
. “New Species of Trigona and Cleptobiotic Lestrimelitta from French

<<<Page: 467>>>

Vollrath, Fritz. ‘Male Body Size and Fitness in the Web-Building Spider Nephila clavipes.”” Zeitschrift fiir Tierpsychologie 53(1)(1980) :61—78.
Warner, Robert R., and Hoffman, Steven G. “Population Density and the Economics of Territorial Defense in a Coral Reef Fish.” Ecology 61(4) (1980) :772-80.
Wellington, Gerard M. “Reversal of Digestive Interactions between Pacific Reef Corals: Mediation by Sweeper Tentacles.” Ocecologia 47(3)(1980): 340-43.
Wellington, Gerard M. The Role of Competition, Niche Diversification and Predation on the Structure and Organization of a Fringing Coral Reef in the Gulf of Panama. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California at Santa Barbara, 1981.
West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Intragroup Selection and the Evolution of Insect Societies.” In Natural Selection and Societies, eds. Richard A. Alexander and Donald W. Tinkle, pp. 3-17. New York: Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1981.
. A review of “Social insects.” Animal Behaviour 29(1) (1981) :312-13.
Willis, Edwin O. “Ecological Roles of Migratory and Resident Birds on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” In Migrant Birds in the Neotropics: Ecology, Behavior and Conservation, edited by A. Keast and E. S. Morton, pp. 205-25. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
Wolda, Henk, and Galindo, Pedro. ‘Population Fluctuations of Mosquitoes in the Non-Seasonal Tropics.” Ecological Entomology 6(1)(1981) :99-106.
Wright, S. Joseph. “Density Compensation in Island Avifaunas.” Oecologia 45(1980) :385-89.
Zaret, Thomas M. “Life History and Growth Relationships of Cichla ocellaris, a Predatory South American Cichlid.” Biotropica, 12(2)(1980) :144-57.
Zucker, Naida. “The Role of Hood-Building in Defining Territories and Limiting Combat in Fiddler Crabs.” Animal Behaviour 29(2)(1981) :387—-95.
Karlstrom, Paul. “Reflections on the Automobile in American Art.” Archives of American Art Journal 20(2)(1980).
. Introduction to Artists and Archives. De Anza College, 1981.
McCoy, Garnett. “Arthur B. Davies and Robert Henri; An Unstable Alliance.” In Dream Vision: The Work of Arthur B. Davies. Boston: Institute of Contemporary Art, 1981.
Pennington, Buck. “The ‘Floating World’ in the Twenties: The Jazz Age and Charles Green Shaw.” Archives of American Art Journal 20(4)(1980).
McFadden, David Revere. Pottery in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, 1981.
. Introduction to Porcelain Traditions and New Visions. New York:
Watson-Guptill, 1981.
. Review of Charles Rennie Mackintosh. Drawing Society Journal (Fall
1981).
. Review of A Collector's Dictionary of Wedgewood, by G. Savage. Antiques Magazine (December 1980).
Sonday, Milton. Review of Warp and Weft, by Dorothy Burnham. In Shuttle, Spindle and Dyepot. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1981.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 453

<<<Page: 468>>>

Taylor, Lisa. Foreword to Silver in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, 1980.
. Foreword to Matchsafes in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum. New York, 1981.
. Foreword to Wallpaper in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum. New York, 1981.
. Foreword to Pottery in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
New York, 1981.
. “Notes from the Director.” Cooper-Hewitt Newsletter (Fall, Winter,
and Spring, 1981).
. “Guest Speaker: Lisa Tay!or on Collections of Memories.” Architec-
tural Digest (April 1981).
Atil, Esin, ed. Turkish Art. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc.; Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. “Art of the Book.” In Turkish Art. New York: Harry N. Abrams,
Inc.; Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1981.
. Kalila wa Dimna: Fables from a Fourteenth-Century Arabic Manu-
script. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. “Opulent Art of the Mamluks: Smithsonian 12(4) (July 1981) :108-13.
. Islamic section. In Oriental Ceramics: The World’s Great Collections, The Freer Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., vol. 9. Tokyo, New York, and San Francisco: Kodansha International Ltd., 1981.
Bier, Carol. “Islamic Art in the New York Metropolitan Area.” Middle East Studies Association Bulletin 14(2)(December 1980) :32—34.
Chase, W. Thomas, III; with Bene, I. V.; Zycherman, Lynda A.; and Westley, Harold. “Examination and Metallurgical Analysis of Chérten 233.” In “A Thirteenth-Century Tibetan Reliquary. An Iconographic and Physical Analysis,” by Robert T. Hall, app. A, pp. 211-14. Artibus Asiae 42(1980) :75—220.
Fu Shen C. Y. A History of the Yiian Imperial Art Collection . Taiwan: National Palace Museum, 1981.
. Masterpieces of Chinese Calligraphy in American and European Collections. vol. 1. Tokyo, 1981.
Knapp, Josephine H. Selection and notes for Chinese, Japanese, and Korean sections. In Oriental Ceramics: The World’s Great Collections, The Freer Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., vol. 9. Tokyo, New York, and San Francisco: Kodansha International Ltd., 1981.
Murray, Julia K. “The Virginia Museum of Fine Arts: The Asian Art Collection.” Orientations (May 1981).
. Sung Kao-tsung, Ma Ho-chih, and the Mao Shih Scrolls: Illustrations of the Classic of Poetry. Ann Arbor, Mich.: University Microfilms, 1981.
Shimizu, Yoshiaki. “Country Scenes and Occupations by Hanabusa Itcho”; “Red and White Plum Blossoms with Tanzaku. Slips, by anonymous Kano painter”; “Scenes from the Tale of Genji, by Kano Naonobu”; “The Bodhisattva Samantabhadra and Raksasi Attendants”; “Mandala of Yama”; “Avalokitesvara of the Magic Jewel and the Wheel (Nyoirin Kannon; S. Cintamani-cakra).” In Screen Painting. Zaigai Nihon no Shiho , edited by Shimada Shujiro, vol. 4. Tokyo: Mainichi Shimbunsha, 1980.
. “Workshop Management of the Early Kano Painters (ca. 1530—-1600).”
Archives of Asian Art 34(1981) :32—47.
454 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 469>>>

. Foreword to Japanese Influences in American Art, by Sally Mills. Williamstown, Mass.; Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, 1981.
Winter, John. “Deterioration mechanisms in East Asian paintings: Some considerations of microscopic structure and mechanical fa lure modes,” pp. 27-48. In Proceedings, Third International Symposium on the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Property—Conservation of Far Eastern Art Objects—November 1979. Tokyo: Tokyo National Research Institute of Cultural Properties, 1980.
. “White pigments in Japanese paintings.” In Proceedings, Sixth Tri-
ennial Meeting, ICOM Committee for Conservation, Ottawa, Canada. 1981.
. “‘Lead white’ in Japanese paintings.” Studics in Conservation 26 (1981) :89-101.
Yonemura, Ann. “Sokachoju maki-e raden yobitsu , edited by Shimada Shujiro, Akiyama Terukazu, and Yamane Yuzo, vol. 10, Tokyo: Mainichi Shimbunsha, 1981.
Zycherman, Lynda A.; Chase, W. Thomas, III; Bene, I. V.; and Westley, Harold. “Examination and Metallurgical Analysis of Chérten 233.” In “A Thirteenth-Century Tibetan Reliquary. An Iconographic and Physical Analysis,” by Robert T. Hall, app. A, pp. 211-14. Artibus Asiae 42(1980) :75—220.
Fox, Howard. Coast to Coast: Sand Paintings of Michael McCall. Washington, D.C.: Washington Project for the Arts, 1981.
. Collages: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum Collection. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
. Edward Mayer. Winston-Salem, N.C.: Southeastern Center for Con-
temporary Art, 1981.
. Kenneth Snelson: Portrait of an Atomist. Buffalo, N.Y.: Albright-
Knox Art Gallery, 1981.
. “Victor Schrager: Recent Still Lifes.” Sun & Moon: A Journal of Literature and Art 11 (Spring 1981): 123-28.
McCabe, Cynthia J. “Fernando Botero.” In Botero. Tokyo: Seibu Museum of Art, 1981.
McClintic, Miranda. Alexandra Exter: Marionettes and Theatrical Designs. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. Directions 1981. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Millard, Charles. “Picasso Brujo.” Hudson Review (Spring 1981) :77—92.
. “American Landscape Painting, 1850-1875.” Hudson Review (Summer 1981) :269—76.
Rosenzweig, Phyllis. Larry Rivers: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Weil, Stephen E. “A Checklist of Legal Considerations for Museums.” Journal of College and University Law 7(3—4) (1980-81) :246—52.
. “No Museum Is an Island.” Museum News 67(January—February
1981) :80—88.
. Review of The Endangered Sector, by Waldemar A. Nielsen. Museum News 67(January—February 1981) :74-79.
Zilezer, Judith. “The Dispersal of the John Quinn Collection.” Archives of American Art Journal 19(3) (1979) :15—21.
. “The Theory of Direct Carving in Modern Sculpture.” Oxford Art
Journal 4(2)(November 1981).
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 455

<<<Page: 470>>>

Molella, Arthur P.; Reingold, Nathan; Rothenberg, Marc; Steiner, Joan F,; Waldenfels, Kathleen, eds. A Scientist in American Life: Essays and Lec tures of Joseph Henry. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press 1980.
Reingold, Nathan. “Refugee Mathematicians in tle United States, 1933-1939 Reception and Reaction.” Annals of Science 38(1981) :313—38.
. “With Henry James in Los Alamos.” Reviews in American Histo
8 (1980) :541—46. .
. “Through Paradigm Land to a Normal History of Science.” Socia
Studies of Science 10(1980) :475—96. )
. “On the Pleasures and Perils of John Passmore, Philosopher.” Alten
nate Futures 3(1980) :68—72.
. “What Is a Federal Historian?: A Historical Editor.” Public Historian —
2(1980) :89-91.
“The Signal Corps.” Military Signal Communications. Edited by Pau J. eoheige) Vol. I. New York: Arno Press, 1980.
The Papers of Joseph Henry. Edited by Nathan Reingold, Arthur P. Mollela, Marc Rothenberg, Kathleen Waldenfels, Joan F. Steiner. Vol. 4, The Princeton Years, January 1838-December 1840. Washington, D.C.: ‘Smitheaall Institution Press, 1981.
Breeskin, Adelyn D. “The Rare, Subtle Talent of Romaine Brooks.” ARTnews (October 1980).
. Introduction and commentary for The Art of Mary Cassatt (1844— 1926). Tokyo, 1981.
Fink, Eleanor E. “Computer-Assisted Retrieval of Slides and Photographs at the National Museum of American Art.” In Proceedings on Automating the Archives, White Plains, N.Y.: Knowledge Industry Publications, Inc., 1981.
Flint, Janet. Art for All. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. El Grabado en Los Estados Unidos desde El Siglo XVIII hasta La
Actualidad . Mexico City: Instituto Mexicano Norteamericano de Relaciones —
Culturales, 1981.
. The Print in the United States from the Eighteenth Century to the Present. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Grana, Teresa Covacevich. Introduction to High School Graphics VII. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Halasz, Piri. “German Expressionism: Explosive Art Movement in a Troubled Age.” Smithsonian (January 1981).
Hartigan, Lynda Roscoe. “Joseph Cornell: A Biography.” In Joseph Cornell. Edited by Kynaston McShine. New York: Museum of Modern Art, 1980.
. “Tools of Her Trades.” In Woman's Tools. Washington, D.C.: Washington Women’s Art Center, 1981.
Herman, Lloyd E. American Porcelain: New Expressionis in an Ancient Art. Forest Grove, Oreg.: Timber Press, 1980.
. “The Folk Masterpiece of Juan Felix Sanchez.” American Craft (December 1980/January 1981).
Hobbs, Susan. “Thomas Wilmer Dewing: The Early Years, 1851-1885.” American Art Journal 13(2)(Spring 1981).
Lewton, Jean, with McAllister, Jane. “The D.C. Commission for the Arts.” Washington Review 6(4)(December 1980—January 1981).
456 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 471>>>

_ “Dr. Joshua Taylor.” Washington Review 7(1)(June—July 1981).
Monroe, Michael W. The Animal Image: Contemporary Objects and the Beast. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Norelli, Martina R. “Leningrad”; “Moscow.” In Europe 1981. New York: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1980.
_ An American Perspective: Selections from the Bequest of Frank McClure. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Nosanow, Barbara Shissler. More than Land or Sky: Art from Appalachia. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. “The Making of an Exhibition: More than Land or Sky: Art from Appalachia.” Maryland Committee for the Humanities Newsletter (1981).
Panzer, Nora. Information for Docents. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Rand, Harry. Arshile Gorky: The Implications of Symbols. Montclair, N.J.: Abner Schram & Company, 1981.
. Elena Karina. Oakland: Oakland Museum, 1980.
. Beth Ames Swartz. New York: Jewish Museum, 1981.
“The Modes in Recent Art.” Arts Magazine (December 1980).
. “Joshua Taylor.” New Art Examiner (June 1981).
. “Some Notes on the Recent Work of Beth Ames Swartz.” Arts Maga-
zine (September 1981).
. Two untitled poems. Washington Review (October 1980).
. Untitled poem. Sun & Moon: A Journal of Literature and Art (October 1981).
Scott, Wilford W. Patrich Henry Bruce, 1910-1912. Washington, D.C.: Federal Reserve Board, 1981.
Taylor, Joshua C. Learning to Look. 2d ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1981.
. Introduction to American Traum und Depression, 1920/42. West
Berlin: Akademie der Kiinste, 1980.
. Introduction to Images of Mexico. Mexico City: Fomento Cultural
Banamex, A.C., 1981.
. Foreword to The Animal Image: Contemporary Objects and the Beast.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. Foreword to East and West: Painting/Poems by Sheila Isham. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Office of the Director
Evelyn, Douglas E. “Taking Stock in the Nation’s Attic.” Museum News 59 (July/August 1981) :39—42.
Lawless, Benjamin W. “Trying to Stay Cool, Once Again, in a Mechanical Breeze.” Smithsonian 12(August 1981) :109—20.
Department of Social and Cultural History
Ahlborn, Richard E. Buckaroos in Paradise: Cowboy Life in Northern Nevada. Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress, 1981.
Bird, William L. “Political Campaign Artifacts.” Smithsonian 11(October 1980).
Dirks, Katherine. “Some Thoughts on Textile Conservation.” Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association of College Professors of Textiles and Clothing. 1981.
Fesperman, John. Preface to The Flentrop Collection of Dutch Chamber Organs, by A. J. Gierveld. Raleigh, N.C.: Sunbury Press, 1981.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 457

<<<Page: 472>>>

. “Flentrop, Dirk.” In The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, 6th ed., ed. Stanley Sadie. London: Macmillan, 1980.
Foote, Shelly. ‘““Bloomers.” Dress 5(1980) :1—12.
Harris, Elizabeth. In Touch. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Hollis, Helen. “The Domestic Piano in America.” In The Piano: A Mirror of American Life. St. Paul, Minn.: Schubert Club, 1981.
Hoover, Cynthia Adams. “Aeolian Co.”; “Aeolian Corporation”; “Charles Albrecht”; “Christian Frederick Ludwig Albrecht”; “Albrecht & Co.”; “American Piano Co.”; “Baldwin Piano & Organ Co.”; “Samuel Blythe”; “Benjamin Crehore”’; “Alfred Dolge’”; “Asa Hopkins’; “Elias Howe”; “Klemm & Brother(s)”; “Mackay”; “Abraham Prescott”; “James Stewart”; “Stieff’; “Hugo Worch”; “Wurlitzer.” In The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, 6th ed., ed. Stanley Sadie. London: Macmillan, 1980.
Klapthor, Margaret B. The First Ladies. Rev. ed. Washington, D.C.: White House Historical Association, with the cooperation of the National Geographic Society, 1981.
Mayo, Edith. “Campaign Appeals to Women.” Journal of American Culture 3(Winter 1980) :722—42.
. Introduction to Journal of American Culture 3(Winter 1980) :595—604.
. “Twentieth-Century Popular Culture in Museums and Libraries.” In Connoisseurship of the Future, ed. Fred E. H. Schroeder, pp. 1-24. Bowling Green, Ohio: Bowling Green University Popular Press, 1981.
Morrison, Howard A. “Gentlemen of Proper Understanding: A Closer Look at Utica’s Anti-Abolitionist Mob.” New York History (January 1981) :61—82.
Myers, Susan. Review of Early Ontario Potters: Their Craft and Trade. Industrial Archeology 7(July 1981).
Roth, Rodris. “Nineteenth-Century American Patent Furniture.” In Innovative Furniture in America from 1800 to the Present, ed. David Hanks, pp. 22-46. New York: Horizon Press, 1981.
Department of the History of Science and Technology
Davis, Audrey B. “Treasures of Medical Sciences at the Smithsonian Institution.” Physician East (April 1980) :17—20.
.”“A Museum Curator.” The Public Historian 2(1980) :97—99.
Finn, Bernard. “Communications in Three Dimensions.” In IEEE Professional Communication Society 1981 Conference Record, ed. Daniel Rosich, pp. 11-12. New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, 1981.
Forman, Paul. “Kausalitat, Anschaulichkeit und Individualitat, oder, wie Wesen und Thesen, die der Quantenmechanik zugeschrieben, durch kulturelle Weret vorgeschrieben wurden.” Kélner Zeitschrift fiir Soziologie und Sozialpsychologie, 22(1980) :393—406.
Hindle, Brooke. “The Artisan during America’s Wooden Age.” In Technology in America: A History of Individuals and Ideas, ed. Carroll W. Pursell, Jr., pp. 8-16. New York: MIT Press Reprint, 1981.
. Testimony as witness on National Science Foundation Funding. In
Hearings before a Subcommittee on Appropriations, House of Representa-
tives, Ninety-Seventh Congress; First Session: Part 8: Members of Congress
and Public Witnesses, pp. 258-62. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government
Printing Office, 1981.
. Emulation and Invention. New York: New York University Press, 1981.
, ed. Material Culture of the Wooden Age. Tarrytown, N.Y.: Sleepy Hollow Restorations, 1981.
Langley, Harold D. “Some Problems of Flag Research: A Look at the Origins and Evolution of the Furlong-McCandless History of the United States Flag.” Flag Bulletin 19(1980) :184—97.
458 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 473>>>

Mayr, Otto, and Maurice, Klaus, eds. The Clockwork Universe: German Clocks and Automata 1550-1650. New York: Neale Watson Academic Publications, 1980.
. “An Offering of Renaissance Clockwork Masterpieces.” Smithsonian 11(December 1980) :44—53.
Merzbach, Uta. “On an Early Version of Gauss’s Disquisitiones Arithemeticae.” In Mathematical Perspectives, ed. J. W. Dauben. New York: Academic Press, 1981.
Multhauf, Robert P. Introduction to Heralds of Science, by Bern Dibner. Rev. ed. New York: Neale Watson Academic Publications, Inc., published for Burndy Library, Norwalk, Conn., and Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., 1980.
Ostroff, Eugene. Western Views and Eastern Visions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1980.
Post, Robert. ‘Science, Public Policy, and Popular Precepts: Alexander Dallas Bache and Alfred Beach as Symbolic Adversaries.” In The Sciences in America: New Perspectives, ed. Nathan Reingold, pp. 77-98. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1980.
. “A Marvel of Engineering.” Historic Preservation 33(July/August
1981) :59-63.
, ed. Railroad History. Boston: Railway & Locomotive Historical Society,
Inc., 1980.
, ed. Railroad History. Boston: Railway & Locomotive Historical Society, Inc., 1981.
Schlebecker, John T. “The Many Names of Farmers.” Agricultural History 55 (April 1981).
. “Eighteenth-Century American Agricultural History.” East Central Newsletter of American Society for 18th-Century Studies 4(January 1981). Sharrer, George T. “Farming in Saratoga County, 1860-1920.” The Grist Mill. Journal of the Saratoga County, New York, Historical Society 14(Winter
1980) :1-5.
. “Food Technology in the Twentieth Century.” Journal of National Agricultural Library Associates 5(1980) :21—26.
Vogel, Robert M. Early Mechnical Engineers in America: A Biographical Dictionary. New York: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1980.
Warner, Deborah J. Perfect in Her Place. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
White, John H., Jr. “Resurrection: The John Bull Steams Again at 150 Years of Age.” Railroad History 144(1981) :9—28.
. “Preserving a National Symbol: The Steam Locomotive.” Industrial
Archeology 7(July 1981) :55—60.
. “Resurrection: The John Bull Steams Again.” American Heritage (Au-
gust/September 1981) :98-103.
. The John Bull: 150 Years a Locomotive. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1981.
Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research
Hutchins, James S. “Still Dodging Arrows: Artistic Depictions of Custer’s Last Stand.” Gateway Heritage, Quarterly Journal of the Missouri Historical Society 1(Winter 1980) :18—29.
National Philatelic Collections
Engstrom, Victor E., and Norby, Reidar. Danish West Indies Mails, 1754-1917,
vol. 2. Washington, D.C.: Scandinavian Philatelic Publishing Company, 1981.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 459

<<<Page: 474>>>

Barber, James G., and Voss, Frederick S. “Pinkerton Brought Law and Order— 19th-Century Style.” Smithsonian (August 1981) :60-68.
. We Never Sleep: The First Fifty Years of the Pinkertons. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Christman, Margaret C. S. “Football.” In Champions of American Sport. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1981.
Henderson, Amy. “Basketball”; “Bicycling”; “Ice Hockey”; “Ice Skating”; “Rodeo”; “Tennis”; “Yachting.” In Champions of American Sport. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1981.
. “Abigail Adams: An American Woman.” History: Reviews of New
Books (November/December 1980) :38.
. “No Divided Allegiance: Essays in Brownson’s Thought.” History: Reviews of New Books (May/June 1981) :159.
Hussey, Jeannette. “Auto Racing”; “Golf”; “Swimming.” In Champions of American Sport. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1981.
. The Code Duello in America. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press, 1980.
. “The Code Duello—The Duel in Nineteenth-Century America.” Connoisseur (March 1981) :210-15.
Miller, Lillian B. “Of Diaries, Letters, and Sketchbooks.” “The Ingenious, Affectionate, Painting Peales,” by Mary Catherine Peck. Antiques World (January 1981).
. “Charles Willson Peale as History Painter: The Exhumation of the
Mastodon.” American Art Journal 13(1)(Winter 1981).
. Review of Nature and Culture: American Landscape and Painting,
1825-1875, by Barbara Novak. Journal of American History 68(1) (June 1981).
. Review of The Index of American Design, pts. 1-10, ed. Sandra Shaffer Tinkham. Microform Review (Summer 1981).
Pachter, Marc. “Baseball”; “Boxing”; “Horse Racing”; “Polo”; “Track.” In Champions of American Sport. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1981.
Stewart, Robert G. Review of Matthew Harris Jouett: Portraitist of the AnteBellum South, by William Barrow Floyd. Filson Club History Quarterly (April 1981).
Voss, Frederick S., and Barber, James G. “Pinkerton Brought Law and Order— 19th-Century Style.” Smithsonian (August 1981) :60—68.
. We Never Sleep: The First Fifty Years of the Pinkertons. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Washburn, Wilcomb E. “Gesprach mit Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, pp. 112-18. In Wenn Wir Gehen—Geht die Welt: Indianer in den USA: Interviews, by (Lampertheim, West Germany: Kubler Verlag, 1980).
. “The Indian Symbol: A Positive Stereotype.’
(February 9, 1981) :13.
. “Symbol Must Emanate from College Culture,” Dartmouth Review
(June 1, 1981) :9.
. “The Russell Tribunal—Who Speaks for Indian Tribes?” Indian Truth
240(July—August 1981) :8, 14.
Dartmouth Review
Kaléik, Susan; and Manos, Sue, eds. South Slavic Cooking: Croatian, Macedonian, Serbian, Slovenian. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
Nabokov, Peter. Adobe: Pueblo and Hispanic Folk Traditions of the Southwest. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
460 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 475>>>

Santino ,Jack, ed. 1980 Festival of American Folklife Program Book. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1980.
. 1981 Festival of American Folklife Program Book. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
Zeitlin, Steven. “Courtship Narratives.” Center for Southern Folklore Newsletter (Gummer 1981).
Angst, Walter. “Repair of a Side Chair with Perforated Plywood Seat.” Journal of The American Institute for Conservation 19(2)(1980) :75-88.
Blackman, M. J. “The Mineralogical and Chemical Analysis of Banesh Period Ceramics from Tal-e Malyan, Iran.” Scientific Studies in Ancient Ceramics, British Museum Occasional Paper 19(1981) :7—20.
Hanson, James A. The Voyageur Sketchbook. Chadron, Neb.: The Fur Press, 1981.
Wolf, Robert L., and Tymitz, Barbara. “The Evolution of a Teaching Hall: You Can Lead a Horse to Water and You Can Help It Drink.” A Study of the Dynamics of Evolution Exhibition. National Museum of Natural History Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
. “Hey Mom, That Exhibit’s Alive.” A Study of Visitor Perceptions of the Coral Reef Exhibit, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
Office of Museum Programs. Abstract of the Proceedings, Belmont Conference on Mid-Career Museum Training, May 9-11, 1980. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
. Session Proceedings, The Role of the Library in a Museum, AAM meet-
ing, 1980. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
Bain, Alan L., and Lytle, Richard H. “Information Systems at the Smithsonian Archives.” In Automating the Archives: Issues and Problems in Computer Applications, ed. Lawrence J. McCrank. White Plains: Knowledge Industry Publications, Inc., 1981.
Deiss, William A. ‘Spencer F. Baird and His Collectors.” Journal of the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History 9(1980) :635—45.
Glenn, James R. “The ‘Curious Gallery’: The Indian Photographs of the McClees Studio in Washington, 1857-1858.” History of Photography 5(1981): 249-62.
Glenn, James R., and Luskey, Judith. “Two-Level Control of Photographic Collections in the National Anthropological Archives.” SAVICOM Newsletter 8(1980) :2-5.
Bedini, Silvio A. “Marketing Time.” In The Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun, pp. 176-83. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Exposition Books, 1981.
. “The Mechanical Clock and the Scientific Revolution,” (Die Mechan-
ische Uhr und die Wissenschafteiche Revolution) pp. 21-29. In Clockwork
Universe (Die Welt Als Uhr), by Klaus Maurice and Otto Mayr. New York
and Munich: Neale Watson Academic Publications, Inc., 1980.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 461

<<<Page: 476>>>

. “The Papal Pachyderms,” Proceedings of the American Philosophical
Society 125(2)(April 1981) :75—90.
. “The Vatican’s Astronomical Paintings and the Institute of the Sci-
ences of Bologna,” Proceedings of the Eleventh Lunar and Planetary Sciences
Conference (1980) :xiii—xxxiii.
. Review of Antique Scientific Instruments, by Gerard L. E. Turner.
Nature 288(4)(December 1980) :516.
. Review of Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford, by Sanford C. Brown.
Historical New Hampshire 35(4)(Winter 1980) :457—59.
. Review of Tools of the Maritime Trade, by John E. Horsley. The Log
of Mystic Seaport 32(1)(Spring 1980) :39—40.
. Review of Geared to the Stars. The Evolution of Planetariums,
Orreries, and Astronomical Clocks, by Henry C. King in collaboration with
John R. Millburn. Sky and Telescope 59(4)(April 1980) :323—24.
. Review of The Mathematical Instruments-Makers in the Grocers’ Com-
pany 1688-1800, by Joyce Brown. Isis 72(2)(1981) :294—95.
. Bedini, Silvio A. Jefferson and Science. Washington, D.C.: Stan-Hitt Graphics, 1981.
Churgin, Silvia J., and Ruth Schallert. “History of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, with Special Emphasis on the Natural History,” Journal of the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History 9(4) (1980) :593—-606.
Maloy, Robert. “Recent Developments in Library Science,” pp. 16-23. In Mission Studies and Information Management. Leiden: International Association for Mission Studies, 1981.
Wells, Ellen, B. “Best Selling Horse Books.” In The Chronicles of the Horse 43(Dec. 1980) :39.
International Handbook of Aerospace Awards and Tropies. Supplement 1980, Ed. Staff of National Air and Space Museum Library. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries. Birds of the Chukchi Peninsula and Wrangel Island (Ptitsy Chukotskogo poluostrova i ostrova Vrangelya), by L. A. Portenko, vol. 1. New Delhi: Amerind Publishing Co., 1981.
. Electrochemistry: History and Theory (Electrochemie,
ihre Geschichte und Lehre), by Wilhelm Ostwald, 2 vols. New Delhi:
Amerind Publishing Co., 1980.
Loar, Peggy A. “A Maze of Opportunities: The Need for Networking in the Nation’s Capital.” Ocular 6(1)(Spring 1981).
Loar, Peggy A., and Theodore Sky. “General Operating Support for Museums: Problems in Paradise.” Journal of College and University Law, 7(3—4) :267— 96.
Stevens, Andrea P. “Suburban Summer Resorts, 1870-1910, Part I.” The Montgomery County Story, 24(3)(August 1981).
Boer, Susan Dudnick. Loose the Mighty Power: Impressions of the Steam Engine in America. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Breeskin, Adelyn Dohme. Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Cartmell, Robert. Invisible Light. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Fox, Howard. Collages: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
462 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 477>>>

Garden. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Herman, Lloyd, and Teller, Betty. Good as Gold. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Kraft, James, and Sloan, Helen Farr. John Sloan in Santa Fe. Washington,
~ D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Muratorio, Ricardo. A Feast of Color: Corpus Christi Dance Costumes of Ecuador. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Nygren, Edward; Myers, Julie; and Marzio, Peter. Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Ostroff, Eugene. Western Views and Eastern Visions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Peters, Susan Dodge. The Photographer's Hand. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Pottery: A Notebook for New Potters. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Stapp, William, and Share, Marjorie. Picture It! Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Stevens, Andrea, editor. Update, 1981-82. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Venini Glass. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Witteborg, Lothar. Good Show! A Practical Guide for Temporary Exhibitions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Bier, Carol, et al. Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Edwards, Holly, and Boer, Susan Dudnick. Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks, Docent Guide. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
. The Image of the Black in Western Art. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1980.
. Innovative Furniture in America. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981.
Wolfe, Janet. Jupiter and Its Moons, Workbook. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1980.
Innovative Furniture in America.
John Sloan in Santa Fe.
Mary Cassatt: Graphic Art.
Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery. Pressed on Paper: Fish Rubbings and Nature Prints.
The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art.
We'll Never Turn Back.
Hutchinson, Louise Daniel. Anna J. Cooper: A Voice From The South. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 463

<<<Page: 478>>>

Morris, James R. Musicological Introduction to the Smithsonian Collection Classic Country Music. Smithsonian Institution. 1981.
. American Musical Theater presentation, The Son
of Kurt Weill, May 21-24, 1981.
. “Variations on a Theme.” Notes on the Arts (November—December
1980). }
. “Balancing Acts.” Notes on the Arts (January—February 1981).
. “Safekeeping.” Notes on the Arts (March—April 1981).
“A Salute to Spring.” Notes on the Arts (May—June 1981).
. “Stretching Out.” Notes on the Arts (July-August 1981).
. “Looking Inside and Out.” Notes on the Arts (September-Octobal
ran Xo) ao pen
Drachsler, Susan Price. Teacher’s Guide (to the Discovery Theater, Smithson— ian Institution), 1980.
Reagon, Bernice Johnson. Roberta Martin and The Roberta Martin Singers: The Legacy and The Music. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.
“My Black Mothers and Sisters.” In Black Women and Liberation Movements, ed. Virginia A. Blandford. Washington, D.C.: Institute for the Arts and the Humanities, Howard University, 1981.
Taylor, J. R. “David Murray Multiplies.”” Record review of Ming (Black Saint BSR—0045), by David Murray. The Village Voice (April 8-14, 1981).
. “Dexter Gordon’s Momentum Mounts.” Record review of Gotham
City (Columbia JC—36853), by Dexter Gordon. The Village Voice (March
25-31, 1981).
. Book review of Riding on a Blue Note, by Gary Giddins. Jazz Times
(June 1981).
Handel: 7 Concerti Grossi, Opus 3.
Twentieth Century Consort I.
Symphony in Black.
The Smithsonian Collection of Classic Country Music.
At Home Abroad.
Louis Armstrong and Sidney Bechet in New York: 1923-1925. Duke Ellington: 1941.
Smithsonian Galaxy, 104 21/2-minute features. Radio Smithsonian, 52 half-hour programs.
The partial listing of Radio Smithsonian segments, which follows, contains material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel:
Hair. A visit to an exhibition surveying the styles and symbolism of hair design through the ages. (Fall 1981).
Backlund, Caroline H. Review of Gordon’s Print Price Annual. ARLIS/NA~ Newsletter (February 1981).
. Index, 1979-1980, to Smithsonian, 10.
Brown, David Alan. “Italian School. XV—XVI Centuries.” In Small Paintings of the Masters, I, chapter 3, pp. 82-106. New York: Woodbine Books, 1981.
. The Young Correggio and His Leonardesque Sources. Garland Series of
Outstanding Dissertations in the Fine Arts, 1981.
. “Biagio di Antonio, Madonna and Child with an Angel,” and “Bernardino Luini, The Mystic Marriage of St. Catherine.” In Italian Paintings XIV-XVIIIth Centuries from the Collections of the Baltimore Museum of Art, pp. 42-53, 108-15. Baltimore: Baltimore Museum of Art, 1981.
Carmean, E. A., Jr. “Robert Motherwell: Reconciliation Elegy.” Journal d’une Collaboration: La Sentiers de la Creation. Paris and Geneva, 1980.
tion. New York, 1980.
, contributor. The Morton G. Neumann Family Collection, II. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1980.
. Picasso: The Saltimbanques. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1980.
“Kandinsky: The Improvisations.” Horizon, 24(May—July—August, 1981) 66-69.
D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1981.
Clark, Trinkett, contributor. The Morton G. Neumann Family Collection, II. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1980.
. Kandinsky: The Improvisations . Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1981.
Doumato, Lamia. Reviews of ten titles to the Vance Architectural Bibliography Series. ARLIS/NA Newsletter, Choice, Reference Quarterly and American Reference Books Annual.
Edelstein, J. M. “Collecting Modern Fine Printing.’’ American Book Collector 2(3, n.s.)(July-August 1981) :44.
. Reviews of Thom Gunn: A Bibliography 1940-1978, by Jack W. CG.
Hagstrom and George Bixby; Elizabeth Bishop: A Bibliography 1927-1979,
by Candace W. MacMahon; and Karl Shapiro: A Descriptive Bibliography
1933-1977, by Lee Bartlett. American Book Collector 2(3 n.s.)(July-August
1981) :61-64.
. “The Heyeck Press,” Three Windows, by Abby Niebauer. Fine Print 7(1)(January 1981) :17.
Fine, Ruth E. “Jenkintown to Washington: Moving the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collections.” American Book Collector 2(5)(September—October 1981) :45—52.
468 / Smithsonian Year 1981
. “Robert Motherwell: Reconciliation Elegy.” A Journal of Collabora-
. Kandinsky: The Improvisations . Washington, ©

<<<Page: 479>>>

. “Eugene Feldman: Master Lithographer.” Introduction to exhibition,
Tyler School of Art, Temple University.
Lawson, Roger C., contributor. Serials Review 7(2)(April 1981).
Lewis, Douglas, and Kohl, B. G. “Chiericati, Niccolo.” Dizionario Biografico degli Italiani 24(1980) :692-93.
. The Drawings of Andrea Palladio. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1981.
Luchs, Alison. “A Maenad from Pisa in the Primavera. Kunsthistorischen Institutes in Florenz 34(1980) :369-70.
. “Madonna and Child from the workshop of Francesco Francia.” In Italian Paintings XIV—XVIIIth Centuries from the Collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art, pp. 101-7. Baltimore: Baltimore Museum of Art, 1981.
Mann, Donna C. “American Naive Paintings in the National Gallery of Art: The Garbisch Collection.” Catalogue for The 26th Annual Washington Antiques Show (January 1981) :40—45.
. “The Price of Paradise: Changing Attitudes Toward Nineteenth-Century American Landscape Painting.”” The Antique Market (June 1981) :7-9. Rathbone, Eliza, contributor. The Morton G. Neumann Family Collection, II.
Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1980.
Robison, Andrew. Contemporary American Prints & Drawings 1940-1980. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1981.
. Introduction to Keith Achepohl Watercolors: Egypt Day and Night. Chicago: The Art Institute of Chicago, 1981.
Sale, J. Russell. ““New Documents for Andrea della Robbia’s Militello Altarpiece.” Burlington Magazine 122:932(November 1980) :764—66.
. “Sandro Botticelli and Studio: Madonna Adoring the Child with Five Angels”; “Giovanni dal Ponte: Saint Anthony Abbot’; and ‘Bacchiacca: Madonna and Child in a Landscape.” In Italian Paintings XIV—XVIIIth Centuries from the Collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art, pp. 54-65, 74-83, and 86-100. Baltimore: The Baltimore Museum of Art, 1981.
Simpson, Marianna S. Arab and Persian Painting in the Fogg Art Museum. Fogg Art Museum Handbooks II. Cambridge, Mass.: Fogg Art Museum, 1980.
Tuttle, Virginia G. “Bosch’s Image of Poverty.” The Art Bulletin 63(1981): 88-95.
Williams, William J. A Heritage of American Paintings from the National Gallery of Art. Maplewood, N.J.: Hammond Incorporated, A Rutledge Press Book, 1981.
Wilmerding, John. American Masterpieces from the National Gallery of Art. New York: Hudson Hills Press, 1980.
Wilmerding, John; Ayres, Linda; and Chotner, Deborah. American Art Through 40 Presidencies: An Inaugural Celebration 1981 . In German Masters of the Nineteenth Century, pp. 38-274. New York: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1981.
Wolff, Martha, contributor. Articles on fifteenth-century engraving in The Dictionary of the Middle Ages, edited under the auspices of the American Council of Learned Societies.
Mitteilungen des
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 469

<<<Page: 480>>>

RIF Bulletin. A quarterly publication for volunteers.
RIF Newsletter. A quarterly publication, reporting on RIF activities nationwide. The Newsletter is distributed to the public as well as to RIF projects. It reaches more than 20,000 readers.
A Book In Every Hand. A pamphlet that describes RIF activities around the country.
Will Your Community’s Youngsters Grow Up Reading? A brochure that ex-
plains how to apply to start a RIF project. It is printed in English and
Spanish.
RIF’s Painless Guide To Ordering Books and Making Payments. An instruction manual for project leaders. For projects that have trouble ordering books, RIF also has a problem-solving brochure.
For the Migrant Youngster, Books Are Friends in Strange Places. A brochure ©
explaining the special help RIF offers projects serving the children of migrant and seasonal farm workers. It is printed in English and Spanish. Resource Manual. An aid for volunteers organizing their first RIF project. Read, Read, Read. A film on RIF that projects use to involve their communities.
Profiles. Descriptions of the nearly 300 publishers and distributors who work with RIF. The profiles list special discounts and services RIF has negotiated —
for the projects.
Your RIF Proposal! A kit of material that gives instructions to groups applying to begin RIF projects.
Welcome (Back) to RIF. A kit of information and guidance for new RIF projects and those renewing their programs for another year.
The RIF Book of Ideas. A continuing series of booklets on fund-raising, how to select books for young people, and other topics.
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. A three-piece package describing RIF, the effects of functional illiteracy on American society, and the results reported by RIF projects over the past five years.
RIF also began production this year of a short documentary film on reading
U.S. economy and culture—and on RIF as an effective response open to parents, citizens, business, and industry.
470 / Smithsonian Year 1981
problems—what they mean to the individual and how they undercut the —

<<<Page: 481>>>

APPENDIX 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1981
WMEEPMOEGREDTARY) 2.2... 060.605 60 50505 S. DILLON RIPLEY Femme Assistant ssi .denc. hess ewes James M. Hobbins AEE 2 Joseph Coudon Administrative Assistant
SMIGTESPONGENICE)) «vice ss. disie sce eeu ae Mary Lynne McElroy Administrative Assistant
BEMESFIOUALINICTIES) | varus: « & fisted = 6a a cies Mary Lee Nissley Supervisor, Secretary’s Files ........... Betty J. Edwards
GFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY Wepnder Secretary ............:.... Phillip S. Hughes
M@FFICE OF THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT tm) THE SECRETARY
Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Richard H. Howland Curator, Smithsonian Institution
RAPER OME fe che eis 6 oiche nse) s ic epexe Ooo. oe James M. Goode Honorary Research Associate ......... Paul H. Oehser
DUEDIS 5 0 G REISE IES eG eae eee Chris S. Peratino Mummetant Directors. ..:......5.....04Benedict T. Maltagliati Patrick J. Stanton
Assistant Secretary for Science ........ David Challinor Mummies @OMCET .. os ek eek es ee es Harold J. Michaelson Mumma Manager .........056.00000% Ross B. Simons Baministrative Assistant ............Rita Jordan
EI 02) Boe it hee eh Eee Ae J. Kevin Sullivan Associate Director for Education
LE ee ee John H. Falk Associate Director for Science
|. aS ect, aL David L. Correll
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 471

<<<Page: 482>>>

Administrative (@fficerns 2rd Facilities: Manager 2/20 ieee seen
Administratwyer© ticen merrier ae CancitOlGPists \. ¥-)2)eas wh aide skis le eek Embryologist/Life Histories ..........
Donald L. Wilhelm John Rynarzewski
June J. Jones Robert H. Gore Mary E. Rice
Directors aati eae Be Deputy sDinectoniy rnc tei eer: INOGG ZINE JOMNCICIe oguiscaneoon oono esc Administrative i@Hicera an senior sein eae
Budget: Amal yst (a2 cis 'tiat ce Sos elem IRE CIS ERA kbp aepchees roe deride Ree Technical Information Specialist .... Theater Manager s..-4.5 5-1. soc oie
Operations/Technical Manager ....
Program: ‘Goordinator .<'fok/ os. sjacres Building. Managers.) 4-26). se ate. eee Chief, Production Operations Division .
Chief, Preservation, Restoration
and) (StOnal gee: ioe jateceie edswexcietings ore < Se
Supervisory Museum Specialist ...... Chairman, Aeronautics Department .... listonianvsm ents). a nee rit tisier: Special Advisor for Technology ..... G@urators) ass Goenise sous ae odes eens
IANcsoGiater Guratorsee sees eee
Research Director, Center for Earth ands blanetany oLuGiesi ere ae ere ODIO SISEy Sicln uot hls nse ciers eto etaly Sore AS Chairman, Space Science and Exploration) Department) janes >). + @urators) oi sacies ees nee baele aoe eines
Associate Guratorsye es eoeeee ascetics
ASEFONOMIEL ieee rahe ede tate ee ics ee Research) Listontanve sees eee aac ee Chief, Public Affairs and Museum GeRviGesy ak ccs eis a oe ote hens eels Program Management Assistant ..... Public Information Specialist ....... Chief, Education Services Division .... Education Specialist for Special Programs 5 2c sncr peice sects mreiciormenes Curriculum: Coordinator sess]. ee Docent and Tour Program Manager . . Editon, Atr and Spucemeeer er. oer
472 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Noel W. Hinners Melvin B. Zisfein Walter J. Boyne
M. Antoinette Smith Wendy A. Stephens Robin A. Schroffel Karl P. Suthard Ronald E. Wagaman Ralph T. Johnston B. Ashley Ball Claude D. Russell Edward B. Chalkley
Walter R. Roderick Alfred J. Bachmeier Donald S. Lopez Paul E. Garber Howard S. Wolko Tom D. Crouch Robert C. Mikesh C. Glen Sweeting Edmund T. Wooldridge, Jr. Von D. Hardesty Claudia M. Oakes
Farouk El-Baz Ted Maxwell
Paul A. Hanle Walter H. Flint
Kerry Joels
Louis R. Purnell David H. DeVorkin Allan A. Needell
Von Del Chamberlain Frank H. Winter
Rita C. Bobowski Helen C. McMahon June B. Chocheles Janet K. Wolfe
Helen Podolske Mary Anne Thompson Holly J. Haynes Linda S. DuBro

<<<Page: 483>>>

Chief, Exhibits and Presentations Division Exhibits Program Manager Editor Chief, Design Unit Chief, Audiovisual Unit
Seay a vede nce uatieys: v ie\s.6).e\iel\e v) (es! ess) e
RE REtiia inti miteite\<e@la) 9) \0: 'e \e.'e)\e 19 je \¢)\e)ie) 00:0) 0 ee «
Edward Bedno Richard D. Crawford Edna W. Owens Robert Widder Hernan I. Otano
Director Associate Director Administrative Officer
ei isite)le\\e] e's) 10) el (e110, .6, 0) ey /@"Ve
National Human Studies Film Center
Director Research Film Studies Coordinator ... Special Assistant for International Programs Administrative Assistant
Richard S. Fiske James F. Mello Sherrill Berger
E. Richard Sorenson Gay C. Neuberger
Douglas Heck Sandra L. Jones
Dirk A. Ballendorf Lain S. Bangdel Dhundiraj Bhandari William H. Crocker
T. Wayne Dye
M. K. JayaSinhji Jhala Richard Loving
Tashi Rabgies
Luding Khen Rinpoche Tirtha B. Shrestha Hubert L. Smith Gyatsho Tshering Paul Vollrath
Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies
Director Administrative Assistant
Roy S. Bryce-Laporte Betty S. Dyson
0 eee BEEEEIITCCEOL ©... ee eee ne Deputy Director for Research Special Assistant to the Director Special Assistant to the Associate I ee be eee ens a @umiinistrative Officer ............... Administrative Assistant I Management Analyst Ee a Meine Manager ................... Supervisory Information and Education NN oii cual ootr mechs ww siara Information Systems Manager, Automatic Data Processing Program . Meee, Office of Exhibits .............. Assistant Chief, Office of Exhibits Supervisory Museum Specialist, Scanning Electron Microscope Laboratory
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries
Richard S. Fiske James F. Mello Terry L. Erwin Catherine J. Kerby
Jerome A. Conlon Thomas R. Harney Charles A. Ossola Mary Rakow Tanner Claretta Jackson Niles John C. Townsend, Jr. Margaret A. Santiago Edward McCoy
Joan C. Madden T. Gary Gautier Eugene F. Behlen William F. Haase
Walter R. Brown

<<<Page: 484>>>

Anthropology
@hratnmiany Yao. ce cicp ere siers cha kee) svarecernele Administrative Assistant ............. GollectionsiManaperk ean sana casas] oes Conservation Laboratory, Supervisor ... MltSiratonsoupenvison) ane aero ae esc Processing Laboratory, Supervisor ..... Public Information Specialist ..........
Curator, National Anthropological
NT CHIVES# Hxk on eee oa esses «
(CSU HEY AO) Pie Chaial or tied eA eee acute hathecip Mee erie Earns Associates Curatoneeriecer rere cians
GuTatorsh Pee Gi chert ae ees
CSUIGATORS? Jarerks MORE cre R eaten Cree eta
NGEOCENS (CURA So b6ccoeuenoucduene
CGuratOrsietinn ho nee ae ae
AsSSoGiatemeUnaton ane oe
Gurator, ote case ae ae ohn Hace pete ee
John P. Albanese (Geology)
Larry D. Banks (Geology)
Sara Bisel (Physical Anthropology) Alison S. Brooks (Archeology) Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Ethnology) Ellis C. Coleman (Archeology) Henry B. Collins (Archeology) John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology) Donald Fowler (Archeology)
Brian Hesse (Archeology)
Eugene Knez (Ethnology)
JoAnne M. Lanouette (Anthropology) Charles M. Love (Archeology) Betty J. Meggers (Archeology)
Lise Olney (Physical Anthropology)
474 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Douglas H. Ubelaker Clara Ann Simmons U. Vincent Wilcox Carolyn L. Rose George R. Lewis George E. Phebus Ruth O. Selig
Herman J. Viola
Robert M. Laughlin William H. Crocker
William W. Fitzhugh Dennis M. Stanford William C. Sturtevant Bruce D. Smith William L. Merrill
Gordon D. Gibson William B. Trousdale Gus W. Van Beek Adrienne Kaeppler
J. Lawrence Angel Donald J. Ortner Douglas H. Ubelaker Lucile E. St. Hoyme
R. H. Ives Goddard III
Stephen Potter (Archeology) Walter Putschar (Physical
Anthropology)
Saul H. Riesenberg (Ethnology) F. Schulter-Ellis (Physical
Anthropology)
T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Anthropology)
Douglas Sutton (Archeology) Mildred Mott Wedel (Archeology
and Ethnohistory)
Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)
Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)
John E. Yellen (Archeology)

<<<Page: 485>>>

Botany
| TETRIS 6 top Ogi miele a ae Dieter C. Wasshausen Administrative Assistant ............. Nella F. Lloyd Mellections Manager ..............-.: George F. Russell III MRED OLAMISES® <2 neces 2 oe se ev cisleteles Richard S. Cowan
Mason E. Hale, Jr.
-ERETS 5) SSR sp heutes Aeust Sa ce cae erat Dan H. Nicolson Robert W. Read Stanwyn G. Shetler Dieter C. Wasshausen John J. Wurdack
Merarate O@iMnratOrs) ios cana Sere es alae steels Robert B. Faden Marie-Héléne Sachet Laurence E. Skog
Peerpitte! CuratOn <i. 2 /.cr esos 2 ee se David B. Lellinger GRASSES
ROE oie 5 oie ne Se eye 3 wn Thomas R. Soderstrom CRYPTOGAMS
__. DRIEGIP 2G 6S CNN ene cee Harold E. Robinson
Peemiofate CuUratOl ..26.escc ne nentcees James N. Norris PALYNOLOGY
(PELE oo Ret ibis een eee Joan W. Nowicke
| TEACKS “CG OGG BN ee re eeeraree Edward S. Ayensu Richard H. Eyde
Katina Bucher (Algae)
Jose Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical South America)
Arthur Lyon Dahl (Algae)
Paul E. Desautels (Orchids)
James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)
Marie L. Farr (Fungi)
F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Island Plants)
Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)
Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)
LeRoy H. Harvey (Grasses)
William H. Hathaway (Flora of Central America)
Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. (Rubiaceae)
James D. Lawrey (Lichens)
Paul A. Lentz (Fungi)
Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams)
Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae)
Edith E. B. Scott (Bryophyta)
Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
Philip Sze (Algae)
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)
Francis A. Uecker (Fungi)
Egbert H. Walker (East Asian Flora)
Entomology BMMEPMNAIMAN . 2.2. ieee nse ees Richard C. Froeschner @eections Manager ........1.....+.Gary F. Hevel
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 475

<<<Page: 486>>>

Senior Sctembistsuemem se cr nieieincrertn:
G@arator’ eicciec 2 eee eh icles
Guratonstee aco ee Oe ees Oye
GumatOrs Serer Ae aichats
GuratOrsee ea ee oe ce oie cs oi entlev eae
Guratots =o sete as Pe PA one eka eters
Paul D. Hurd, Jr. Karl V. Krombein
Oliver S. Flint, Jr. Wayne N. Mathis
John M. Burns Don R. Davis W. Donald Duckworth
Terry L. Erwin Paul J. Spangler
Richard C. Froeschner Paul D. Hurd, Jr. Karl V. Krombein
Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.
Charles P. Alexander (Diptera)
Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera)
Edward W. Baker (Mites)
S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera)
S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera)
Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera)
Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera)
Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)
J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera)
Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka)
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)
John H. Fales (Lepidoptera)
Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera)
Richard H. Foote (Diptera)
John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)
Raymond J. Gagné (Diptera)
Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera)
E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera)
Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera)
Thomas Henry (Hemiptera)
Jon L. Herring (Hemiptera)
Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera)
Harry Hoogstraal (Medical Entomology)
John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera)
Lloyd Knutson (Diptera)
James P. Kramer (Homoptera)
Invertebrate Zoology
Ghatrmatn’s scat aera ee ol eke aya
476 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera) Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera) Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera) Carl F. W. Muesebeck (Hymenoptera) David F. Nickle (Orthoptera) Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera) George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera) Mary Livingston Ripley (General Entomology) Louise M. Russell (Homoptera) Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera) Robert L. Smiley (Mites) David R. Smith (Hymenoptera) Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera) George C. Steyskal (Diptera) Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera) F. Christian Thompson (Diptera) Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera) Robert Traub (Siphonaptera) Hayo H. W. Velthuis (Hymenoptera) Ronald A. Ward (Medical Entomology) Richard E. White (Coleoptera) Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera) Willis W. Wirth (Diptera) David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)
Clyde F. E. Roper

<<<Page: 487>>>

Mellections Manager ........-......-. Roland Brown
MEE ADOIOPISE .s.55s ce see Sees sees Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. CRUSTACEA MET RESUS co-ops a cvciacevomsies ee eave eer J. Laurens Barnard
Thomas E. Bowman Roger F. Cressey Charles W. Hart, Jr. Louis S. Kornicker Raymond B. Manning
Beeocrate Gurator os <).)5 1) fields eysieke weilers Brian F. Kensley ECHINODERMS Ee ceo ic xo ayneatian e siw Binie.in Os Frederick M. Bayer
David L. Pawson Klaus Ruetzler
MOLLUSKS | SO DUSTO oer es Serene Richard S. Houbrick Clyde F. E. Roper Joseph Rosewater WORMS Dr dag cA Sm ene Robert P. Higgins W. Duane Hope Meredith L. Jones Beeoerate: Gurators pn s oe eh fens iss Kristian Fauchald Mary E. Rice RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS S. Stillman Berry Charles G. Messing J. Bruce Bredin Isabel Perez-Farfante Stephen D. Cairns Marian Pettibone Fenner A. Chace, Jr. Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr. Sing Chen Chang Harald A. Rehder Hillary Boyle Cressey Frank R. Schwengal Stephen L. Gardiner I. G. Sohn John C. Harshbarger Geerart J. Vermeij Lipke B. Holthuis Gilbert L. Voss Roman Kenk Austin B. Williams J. Ralph Lichtenfels David K. Young
Patsy McLaughlin
Mineral Sciences
SEI ed Pee a Daniel E. Appleman Siministrative Assistant ............. Elizabeth J. Ebel METEORITES MITECNEG Et Pex os ook ee Pete Foe bes Roy S. Clarke, Jr. Brian H. Mason MEMIAREEDISES = ere rts oie Lie oe Kurt Fredriksson
Robert F. Fudali
MINERALOGY nee ae ee Paul E. Desautels BEPECIALC! COUFAL RN Sart fers een aca ene John S. White, Jr.
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 477

<<<Page: 488>>>

Guatorse Sh cee Ce aeons Richard S. Fiske William G. Melson Tom Simkin
Ghemictswrantea ce eee le sates oe Julie N. Barrows Eugene Jarosewich Joseph A. Nelen
Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites) Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy) William C. Buell IV (Petrology Martin Flower (Petrology and Volcanology) and Volcanology) Cathy Busby-Spera (Petrology Edward Henderson (Meteorites) and Volcanology) Peter Leavens (Mineralogy) Gary R. Byerly (Petrology Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy) and Volcanology) Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites) and Volcanology) Donald Elthon (Petrology Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology and Volcanology) and Volcanology) John Filson (Petrology John J. Trelawney (Mineralogy) and Volcanology) Paleobiology Ghrairmrany io! ja.s secre aceiraiees eyseneaeeere ani ae Martin A. Buzas Gollectionss Manag enue an eiece eer Frederick J. Collier Collections Management, Supervisor ... Jann W. M. Thompson ADP Paleobiology Inventory, Supervisor Timothy M. Collins Paleobiological Information Specialist .. | Raymond T. Rye II Scientiticsllinstratoneeeiaen emoeeecee Lawrence B. Isham Vertebrate Paleontology Preparation Laboratory, SUPeLVISOR picjcd.2 6 +/+: Arnold D. Lewis
Gurators p43 pice bistatatisetee ioe eines Richard H. Benson Richard S. Boardman Martin A. Buzas Alan H. Cheetham Richard Cifelli Richard E. Grant Porter M. Kier Thomas R. Waller
Geologists: 0) .: satan petals te Meee Yacciie oe Kenneth M. Towe VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY
Curators tii. senile aaieeiee ta deia o 6 Nicholas Hotton III
Clayton E. Ray
Associate! Curator: snpich ied mmesthe ss ees Robert J. Emry
Assistant \Guratoris tice ano nic ons Anna K. Behrensmeyer PALEOBOTANY
Guim ators iF. mores eie un hee once Oat Walter H. Adey
Leo J. Hickey Francis M. Hueber
478 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 489>>>

SET EN Ae khan BRING as 5 ane ws Jack W. Pierce Senior Scientist and Oceanographer .... Daniel J. Stanley MEd 2 Facto tacts SINS 6 sae ee Ian G. MacIntyre
Patricia Adey
Arthur J. Boucot Sankar Chatterjee Anthony G. Coates
G. Arthur Cooper Josephine W. Cooper Daryl P. Domning Raymond C. Douglass J. Thomas Dutro, Jr. Ralph E. Eshelman Jerzy A. Federowski Robert M. Finks Frank A. Garcia
C. Lewis Gazin Mackenzie Gordon, Jr. Peter J. Harmatuk Bruce N. Haugh Joseph E. Hazel
S. Taseer Hussain Ralph W. Imlay Jeremy B. C. Jackson Zofia Kielan-Jaworowskia Harry S. Ladd
N. Gary Lane Kenneth E. Lohman Venka V. MacIntyre Andrés Maldonado
Vertebrate Zoology
Sergius H. Mamay James F. Mello Robert B. Neuman William A. Oliver, Jr. Edward J. Petuch Thomas F. Phelan John Pojeta, Jr.
Roy H. Reinhart Charles A. Repenning Bruce Runnegar William J. Sando Vincent P. Schneider Edith E. B. Scott Frederick R. Siegel Elwyn L. Simons Judith E. Skog Norman F. Sohl
I. Gregory Sohn George D. Stanley, Jr. Steven M. Stanley Robert S. Steneck Margaret Ruth Todd Arthur D. Watt Frank C. Whitmore, Jr. Druid Wilson
Ellis P. Yochelson
2.2 CUSTER SENSIS 8 Gt Onn nee oe George R. Zug
Mollections. Manager ..-...:..0........ J. Phillip Angle FISHES
| UNDERDITS. Lys ie ogee SE REE ee Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
Ernest A. Lachner
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman BET tt GUbAtOL tence. sa alee es elas as Richard P. Vari
MITES EG Sage Soa hcshe oalt out el sce es seeps eh sie 6) 6 W. Ronald Heyer George R. Zug BIRDS MUMS ECU TSP: 51, 8 sh eects) acs dt afe ate haiepaie oie) 2s, Glens -< Storrs L. Olson George E. Watson . Richard L. Zusi Berwarite Curator =... 500088250060 45 <6 Paul Slud
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 479

<<<Page: 490>>>

G@WKAtOTS# iS ea cat Seer eee Charles O. Handley, Jr. Richard W. Thorington, Jr.
Nccociaten Gra tone eee rine iano James G. Mead
Ncsistant Gunatotern erences Michael D. Carleton
Administrative Specialist ............. Adele Y. Issa Executive’ Assistant (IG@BP)) 2-3". .2:...Roger Pasquier
John W. Aldrich (Birds)
John S. Ash (Birds)
Richard C. Banks (Birds)
John C. Barber (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)
Michael A. Bogan (Mammals)
James E. Bohlke (Fishes)
Heraldo Britski (Fishes)
Robert L. Brownell (Mammals)
Howard W. Campbell (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)
Louise H. Emmons (Mammals)
Robert K. Enders (Mammals)
Carl H. Ernst (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Alan Feduccia (Birds)
Sara V. Fink (Fishes)
William L. Fink (Fishes)
John G. Frazier (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Herbert Friedmann (Birds)
Thomas H. Fritts (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Jeffery Froehlich (Mammals)
Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)
Michael Goulding (Fishes)
Richard Highton (Reptiles and Amphibians)
George J. Jacobs (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Frances C. James (Birds)
Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)
Warren B. King (Birds)
Gordon L. Kirkland (Mammals)
E. V. Komarek (Mammals)
Irving L. Kornfield (Fishes)
William H. Krueger (Fishes)
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)
Roy W. McDiarmid (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Francisco Mago-Leccia (Fishes)
480 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Joe T. Marshall (Birds)
Linda R. Maxson (Reptiles and Amphibians)
J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)
Naercio Menezes (Fishes)
Kenneth I. Miyata (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)
Douglas W. Morrison (Mammals) ©
Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)
Ralph S. Palmer (Birds)
Lynne R. Parenti (Fishes)
William F. Perrin (Mammals)
Allan R. Phillips (Birds)
Ronald H. Pine (Mammals)
Gregory K. Pregill (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Dioscoro S. Rabor (Mammals)
John E. Randall (Fishes)
Randall R. Reeves (Mammals)
S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)
C. Brian Robbins (Mammals)
Rudolfo Ruibal (Reptiles and Amphibians)
William Schevill (Mammals)
Normal J. Scott, Jr. (Reptiles and Amphibians)
William F. Smith-Vaniz (Fishes)
David W. Steadman (Birds)
Stephen G. Tilley (Reptiles and Amphibians)
James C. Tyler (Fishes)
Joseph P. Ward (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Richard Wassersug (Reptiles and Amphibians)
Marilyn Weitzman (Fishes)
John S. Weske (Birds)
Ralph M. Wetzel (Mammals)
Claudia P. Wilds (Birds)
E. O. Wiley (Fishes)
James D. Williams (Fishes)
Don E. Wilson (Mammals)

<<<Page: 491>>>

Handbook of North American Indians
General Editor Production Manager Management Services Assistant ....... Anthropologists
stelle! (aifaidn ie) m/e! s)ejathin slim) e.6ehexelie
Linguist Librarian
tae Ka! (e| ess \s),0) 0,6 (ele. © w le iu) (e)\0, 1018 e/\8 ‘eles
William C. Sturtevant Diane Della-Loggia Melvina Jackson Laura J. Greenberg Joanna C. Scherer
R. H. Ives Goddard Lorraine H. Jacoby
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
Director Administrative Services Assistant ..... Marine Biologists ...
Director Assistant Director for Animal Programs Assistant Director for Support Services . Special Assistant to the Director ...... Executive Assistant, Animal Programs .. Chief, Office of Management Services .. Memere@ tice of Education .... 2... Curators: Department of Herpetology ......... Department of Mammalogy ......... Department of Ornithology (Acting) . Registrar Scientist-in-Charge, Department of Mooloecical Research 64.0% 6 6.06 cee USE ANE 8) 8o) 2) ays» \oe)ia aS si eieaaris sen
Veterinarian-in-Charge, Department Seema Tiealth . 2... ene ence evens
Leslie W. Knapp Patricia Buckley Frank D. Ferrari Gordon Hendler Betty Landrum Ernani Menez
Theodore H. Reed John F. Eisenberg Gaetano G. Calise Robert J. Hoage Jaren G. Horsley Vincent J. Doyle Judith White
Dale L. Marcellini Edwin Gould Eugene S. Morton Judith Block
Devra G. Kleiman Eugene S. Morton Katherine S. Ralls John C. Seidensticker
R. Mitchell Bush Donald L. Janssen
Max J. Appel
Kenneth C. Bovée Thomas McP. Brown James W. Carpenter Harold W. Clark Gordon W. Daisley
M. Kathryn Hammock
Pathologist-in-Charge, Department of BBMEEOLOP AY: (05 of ei se cvsnchapsie c's eel egereis2 Chief, Office of Construction Management Chief, Office of Graphics and Exhibits . Chief, Office of Facilities Management . Chief, Office of Police, Health and Safety
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 481
A. Everette James, Jr. Seth A. Koch Douglas W. McKay Carroll Platz
Judson Randolph
U. S. Seal
Richard J. Montali
Donald Muddiman Robert E. Mulcahy Emanuel Petrella Samuel L. Middleton, Jr.

<<<Page: 492>>>

Executive Director, Friends of the
Naitionall Zoon acces sec aeeeeiain nae Sabin Robbins Associate in Ecology as. see eee ee ne S. Dillon Ripley Colle boraton cess ses cae seria: tale a tete arene Kenhelm W. Stott
Department of Conservation, Front Royal, Virginia Curaton-in=G@haneem cap ech ncieias oee Christen M. Wemmer Facility (Manacengn cima ct ies © occ John N. Williams
RESEARCH ASSOCIATES AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS Wolfgang P. J. Dittus Nancy Muckenhirn Richard Faust Wal!ter Poduschka John G. Frazier, Jr. John G. Robinson Chris Gardiner Rasanayagam Rudran Kenneth M. Green John D. Strandberg Sidney R. Jones Melvin E. Sunquist Paul Leyhausen Susan C. Wilson
Edgardo Mondolfi OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION
Directories ie et ee ies de Edward S. Ayensu Goordimator sec boat he rere anew oie Robert A. DeFilipps ProgrameAdministratom se secs cl Marsha Cox
|B FT ase Co) Rey ee ree oat REN SE RR ee PE Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth AssistantsDinectotieremreierss ieee oor: Roberta Wolff Rubinoff Program: (Specialists: -ikicmnm.ob mien =e eo Francine C. Berkowitz Edith McRee Whiteman Grants! Specialistes |. aeeietacieaere sf cirs Betty J. Wingfield Program Assistant: o5joc0 his <o «saws apes Grace Murphy Administrative Oficent sere ae ae Catherine F. Harris RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY Directant snc Sone eae Ne oie s William H. Klein AssistanteDinector /5Sci-40 1c asc n es = W. Shropshire, Jr. AgriculfuraliEngineen crea. aaa a.) +u eis John Sager Agricultural Meteorologist ............ Ikuo Horiguchi Anthropologist in bake acmoee 4 saris aua's) ela. Robert Stuckenrath AgtlaticmEcolopis tenia eee els ely Claire Buchanan Biochemiusts™ (este serge ererets oes corks Ora Canaani
Maurice Margulies Nicholas M. Shaw
Biologists: .ua: Gere See Beetham ele nes Elisabeth Gantt Rebecca Hayes CGOnetichste ee hie oe ne Re ores Roy W. Harding, Jr. PHYSICISEIt).ca er net errata cane aie Bernard Goldberg PlantiBhysiolopistsi-eresae see ee Yosef Ben-Tal
Charles F. Cleland Gerald Deitzer Bert G. Drake Rita Khanna Thomas Redlinger William O. Smith Meira Ziv
482 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 493>>>

(Including Harvard Members of the Center for Astrophysics)
Yoram Avni
Eugene H. Avrett Sallie Baliunas
John A. Ball
Barbara Bell
Sergio Bienstock John Black
Paul Brockman Alastair G. W. Cameron Bartley Cardon Nathaniel P. Carleton Frederic Chaffee
Eric J. Chaisson Kelley Chance
Lim Cheung Giuseppe Colombo Allan F. Cook Alexander Dalgarno Vicenzo Danev
Marc Davis
Robert Davis
John P. Delvaille Theodore Dunham Andrea K. Dupree Douglas Eardley Martin S. Elvis Robert Estes Giuseppina Fabbiano Giovanni G. Fazio Bruce Fegley
Edward L. Fireman William R. Forman Fred A. Franklin Daryl E. Freeman Edward M. Gaposchkin Larry Gardner
John C. Geary Margaret Geller Riccardo Giacconi Mark Giampapa Owen Gingerich Isabella Gioia
Paolo Giommi
Leo Goldberg
Leon Golub
Paul Gorenstein Richard E. Griffiths Jonathan E. Grindlay Mario Grossi
Systinet sin) w]e) te elle) ed's) a) ‘n) slime) im ie) we p10, 6 cele e).6
Between diie) a). e) ala)
Herbert Gursky Shadia Habbal
F. R. Harnden, Jr. Daniel E. Harris
Lee W. Hartmann
J. Patrick Henry
R. Hoshi
John P. Huchra Luigi G. Jacchia Christine Jones-Forman Steven Kahn
Paul Kalaghan Wolfgang Kalkofen Elisabeth Kallne
Jan Kallne
Ronald Kates Stephen M. Kent Kate Kirby-Docken Randall Knight David Koch
John L. Kohl Yoshihide Kozai Max Krook
Robert L. Kurucz Victor Kwong
Don Lamb
David M. Latham David Layzer Myron Lecar Randolph H. Levine Margaret Lewis Alan P. Lightman Martha H. Liller William Liller
A. Edward Lilley Richard London Tommaso Maccacaro Richard E. McCrosky Brian G. Marsden Ursula B. Marvin Edward M. Mattison Alan Maxwell
Gary Melnick
James M. Moran Stephen S. Murray David Norcross Thomas Norris Robert W. Noyes Michael Oppenheimer
George B. Field John G. Gregory
Roberto Pallavicini Costas Papaliolios William H. Parkinson Joseph Patterson Michael R. Pearlman William H. Press Harrison E. Radford John C. Raymond Mark Reid Wolfgang Rohrbeck Robert Rosner Micheline C. Roufosse George B. Rybicki John A. Rys Rudolph E. Schild Matthew Schneps Ethan J. Schreier Daniel A. Schwartz Joseph Schwarz Frederick D. Seward Phillip Shorer
Peter L. Smith Robert Stachnik Robert Stefanik
J. E. Steiner
William K. Stevens Harvey D. Tananbaum Paul O. Taylor Wesley A. Traub Wallace H. Tucker Giuseppe S. Vaiana Leon P. VanSpeybroeck Robert F. C. Vessot George A. Victor Gordon Weast Trevor C. Weekes Steven Weinberg Heinz Weiser
Fred L. Whipple Charles A. Whitney Steven Willner George L. Withbroe John A. Wood Frances W. Wright Jeng-Hwa Yee Kouichi Yoshino Fred Young
Gianni Zamorani Martin V. Zombeck
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 483

<<<Page: 494>>>

Director: -2.acanee aes Sst ea Oe Me Ira Rubinoff DMepe ey Director ¢ < njctere mu cist doc nie sl anata Michael H. Robinson Assistant Director, Barro Colorado
Usland ie. Meee eo tears eines Seale Robert L. Dressler Special Assistant to Director .......... Adela Gomez Deputy Special Assistant to Director ... Elena Lombardo Seniors ocientistsammiie etter Martin H. Moynihan
A. Stanley Rand
Exectitiver@mcentrcacimntcc ici: eccciese Frank Morris Superintendent, Barrio Colorado
Natures Viomamentens cmc cles see eter Gilberto Ocania Pacilities (Wand Ger on 5..%. ins) oojesn boieye aie Ramon Ely | Head, Office of Conservation and
Environmental Education ........... Nicholas Smythe Educational Coordinator 2... 2.3 3. Georgina De Alba BUG SCtAGSIGEANE © cg ceils nacre sou vale « Carmen Sucre
Scientific Staff
John Cubit Egbert Leigh, Jr. David W. Roubik Mark W. Denny Harilaos Lessios Robert E. Silberglied* Mary Jane West Olga F. Linares Alan P. Smith
Eberhard G. Gene Montgomery Neal G. Smith William Eberhard D. Ross Robertson Donald M. Windsor Peter W. Glynn Arcadio F. Rodaniche Hindrik Wolda
Research Associates
Annette Aiello Robin Foster Katharine Milton Robin Andrews Nathan Gale Anthony Ranere Carlos Arellano L. Pedro Galindo Tyson Roberts Charles F. Bennett, Jr. Jeffrey B. Graham Barbara Robinson José Ignacio Borrero Deborah Caldwell Hahn Gordon B. Small Gordon M. Burghardt Jane Lubchenco W. John Smith Richard Cooke Yael Lubin Henry Stockwell Reinaldo Diaz V. Ernst Mayr Alastair M. Stuart Kerry Ann Dressler Bruce Menge Paulo E. Vanzolini
Fritz Vollrath
Assistant Secretary (ence dace cose Charles Blitzer
Special’ Assistants anni adenine etl se Dean Anderson Susan Hamilton
Administrative. @fficer). s.r ee Patricia DuVall
New York (Administrative Office)
WDITE CEOTL wee ie Sek ees eeals. ol eeeshe wen eotaede William E. Woolfenden Aissistanite DineGtorie ae ats idl acdsee ee eel Vacant
Washington (Processing Center)
Senior (GunatOnees Saya. sosielsesiacieens sister Garnett McCoy Administrative, @ticer ... ne anes Richard J. Nicastro
* Deceased, January 13, 1982.
484 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 495>>>

Marator of Manuscripts ............... Associate Curator of Manuscripts ...... BMEAMSDECIAIISE oh wivire ce elamisie aicene eieie a,
New York Area Office
BEITCCLON =. Nis clenerdis siete erneks ae seal Boston Area Office
MRETIMIPITECEOL cree ovis tei rd be Fie toh ale eho cr ee Detroit Area Office
RTM CEOL ve od insist = eys 3) S:isj's 2 eis ey = San Francisco Area Office
BERD RE COD UA ia aici sacgeterelstasi sessile a6 0 <=
Director REG C ATEN ITECEON « ..0eveeraicitets sues sey eee s Curator of Drawings and Prints ....... (urator of Decorative Arts ............ miratonof Vextiles ose eels ct cee ee AL do. 5.5 5,015, eletereld mines vee s RMCReEMT AT Ve ny Pesce toile VS ial ich as ere ae elles MSE GEV ALTOID Mextile) asks snsieiieen sss a ee MRGERVAtOn, PAPCH .).). cculecesie ess ae ole Editor Seiibition Coordinator ............... Eeinoition Designer: is... 2. ce see eee es business Administrator ............... BPRRCIAOIAOCCUTILY cians Share ete sfele eis eelshenns Bmaorams Manager o..0 2.6 sce ccna Public Relations Manager ............. Eeinbitions Researcher ’..............<Beemmine Specialist si... 6 nee ve ees Bemmcnes, EOreman 3... 26ee ee dele Business Office Manager .............. Administrative Assistants to the Director
hal inica\ (ol altel Se ‘el*e\ tatie’ ome, ele a else eel ee saree
Director Assistant Director for Administration .. Emanaimistrative Officer .........0.0..-Associate Curator, Chinese Art ........ Associate Curator Japanese Art ........ Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art ... Associate Curator, American Art ...... Assistant Curator, Japanese Art ........ MAIS ALOT te ee ies ce Nectar eee Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory Conservators
Research Curator, Far Eastern Ceramics. BerecnanieAssistantasua ss cere oii aie
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 485
Arthur Breton Judith E. Throm Buck Pennington
William McNaught
Robert Brown
Dennis Barrie
Paul Karlstrom
Lisa Taylor
Christian Rohlfing Elaine Evans Dee David Revere McFadden Milton Sonday Albina De Meio Robert C. Kaufmann Lucy Commoner Konstanze Bachmann Nancy Akre
Dorothy Twining Globus Robin Parkinson Kurt Struver
Luis Palau
Mary Kerr
Isabelle Silverman Lucy Fellowes Andrew Svedlow Benard Feudi Elizabeth McKirdie Chauncie McKeever Peter M. Scherer
Thomas Lawton Richard Louie
Sarah L. Newmeyer Shen C.Y.. Fa Yoshiaki Shimizu Esin Atil
David Park Curry Ann Yonemura
Julia K. Murray
W. Thomas Chase III John Winter
Lynda A. Zycherman John A. Pope Josephine H. Knapp

<<<Page: 496>>>

Wibrariant fie ee eee Ae Ellen A. Nollman
Assistant Librarian ie.) Seen «<a Chung-ming Lung Registrars... (tet) (S satin e etate ah Saya Eleanor Radcliffe Registrartall Specialist)... 2%... 24.0010) se Harriet McWilliams Docent Gharmmovantes series ieee cere Gayle Southworth Honorary Associates! (21.21. /hsteott w«ls lRichard Edwards
Calvin French
Directors yy tie sere oliese. estas oiaie sts otsle oe Abram Lerner Deputy sDirector i) 20ij. 20 iets ta ets sce Stephen E. Weil EXecitiver@ Miceracrrens er. cesyotieicis chert: Nancy F. Kirkpatrick Giiel @rina tory Syue h nsic an ok ols Aes eran Charles W. Millard Gurator of Exhibitions: sn s\oeaine. 2s» Cynthia J. McCabe Associate! Guratons: -ce)cemcie » eee cle Frank Gettings
Phyllis Rosenzweig Judith Zilczer Negicnarne (Quire cobocascooncacoduce Valerie Fletcher Howard Fox Miranda McClintic
nib rarianieest cs 4 koe See ed RRs eae Anna Brooke GGnsenvators: Aan ee eee oe Felrath Hines Leland Aks
Clarke Bedford Susan Lake Antoinette Owen
Repistrar’ $4.00>,.). os Ae eee Douglas Robinson GhichaEdications eee eee ee Edward Lawson Chief, Exhibits and Design ............ Joseph Shannon Public Information Specialist .......... Sidney Lawrence Photographertnds ac fee ae eee John Tennant Building Services Coordinator ......... Frank Underwood
iter toe 2 Moock: ceed Mua mape teeter: eitreter: Nathan Reingold
Assistant EGitonsessansaeiar cin reece rion Marc Rothenberg Kathleen Waldenfels
Administrative Officemmas-ine-e eee s Beverly Jo Lepley
DERE CEOR eas otc uc cues eeu atone a Warren Robbins Acting (Dinecton c.1s ceccnian ee pecan eta dare John E. Reinhardt Acting: Deputy Directors. a. seay<n yen eis 3 Jean Salan Curator of Collections: 0: ses 22 oa oe Lydia Puccinelli Research ¢@uratore tyes Roslyn Walker Program/Education Director .......... Amina Dickerson Academic Coordinator, Higher Education Edward Lifschitz Buildings Manager.) -coce crea er Basil Arendse RESUS trains cus «sos aie issih sykes seek ashes Lee Williams Conservator Guys) alae to. as ecu eeemcvaneee Renee Welfeld Archives Assistant ana Eernmeiertcean rr Bryna Freyer
Acting Directors os. soaks wuaree a ale Harry Lowe AGMINISHALOE Geo se ivr tae eee H. Eugene Kelson
486 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 497>>>

Associate Administrator .............. Wesistant to the Director .............. Curator, 20th Century Painting and
Sculpture Senior Curatorial Advisor, 20th Century
Painting and Sculpture .............. Associate Curator, 20th Century
Pamtinge and Sculpture .............. Assistant Curator, 20th Century
Paimting and Sculpture .............. Assistant Curator, Joseph Cornell
MEMO CHHED 5. a cmisik helocowid ads oe os Curator, 18th and 19th Century
Painting and Sculpture .............. Associate Curator, 18th and 19th
Century Painting and Sculpture ...... Curator, Prints and Drawings .......... Associate Curator, Prints and Drawings . Seatoriof Education ........-..+-+-.:. Metication Program Officer ............ Associate Curator for Secondary
EU CPTOD GA Sie Rearend cal coe cee eae Assistant Curator for Elementary
“= diencailora Stee ots Std oe a oes Gere Assistant Curator for Docent Programs . Assistant Curator, Discover
mrapmics Workshop .........-...-%5 Director, Renwick Gallery ............. iurator, Renwick Gallery ............. Associate Curator, Renwick Gallery .... Brratonof Research .60..e. 866 eeee es Chief, Office of Exhibition and Design .. Chief, Design Unit, Office of
Exmabition and Design ............:PemromC@OnserVvatOr | sf... eee ees inet Office of Publication ........... Spr Mite tie ec ten seep Vaiss ahaicleh vies. ws ies 3 83 Assistant Registrar, Permanent
LAS TIS LEOT, caters eee cr Ege rat eA Rr Assistant Registrar, Loans ............ mmief, Packing and Shipping ........... Minet, Office of Public Affairs ......... Chief, Office of Visual Resources ...... Assistant Chief, Office of
Rirstial IRCSOUNCES / 5/7. ase deisel oe ee meee hnotorrapher «....i). Geese es ees Coordinator, Inventory of American
BRMATELING. Sun cucscysripsdcyaees Tacien acetal Sense Librarian (Acting), NMAA/NPG .........
Charles J. Robertson Birute Anne Vileisis
Harry Rand
Adelyn Breeskin Virginia Mecklenburg Merry Foresta
Lynda Hartigan William H. Truettner
Robin Bolton-Smith
Janet Flint
Martina Norelli
Barbara Shissler Nosanow Margaret P. Cogswell
Teresa C. Grana
Margery E. Gordon Nora Panzer
Allan K. Kaneshiro Lloyd E. Herman Michael Monroe Ellen Myette
Lois M. Fink David Keeler
Val Lewton
Stefano Scafetta Carroll S. Clark
W. Robert Johnston
Thomas W. Bower Melissa L. Kroning Burgess A. Coleman Margery Byers Eleanor Fink
Rachel Allen Michael Fischer
Martha Andrews Susan Gurney
CES uBR oneal olla ahd aS BemeEPurector £25.00 ./6 bebo ee ees Assistant Director for Administration .. Museum Program Coordinator ......... Public Information Officer ............
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 487
Roger G. Kennedy Douglas E. Evelyn Ronald E. Becker Susan B. Beaudette Geraldine E. Sanderson

<<<Page: 498>>>

National Philatelic Collections
Executive, Director. 20%). .aeaeseases sae Robert G. Tillotson Associates Guratoriernancws tear ol: Reidar Norby
National Numismatics Collections
PAIS HATIANISY oc leks wisiobaien tase tse aves Mra ate ore Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli Elvira Clain-Stefanelli Research Associate) 4... seen ssi sieje tor Emery May Norweb
Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research
Flistontanse fea oe ae eae Forrest C. Pogue
James Hutchins
Office of Building Management
Bailcimea Viana cern rarecter aa ciae sire. Lawrence A. Bush
Assistant Building Manager ........... William Sanford Division of Conservation
eadiGonservatorne seen eee J. Scott Odell
Department of Exhibits
Assistant Director for Exhibits ......... Benjamin W. Lawless Chief, Exhibits Management ........... Richard S. Virgo Ghief Exhibits) Desitonaes a. oilecie eee Nadya Makovenyi @Ghict, Exhibitsseroductionl ene eee Walter N. Lewis
Office of Public and Academic Programs DIT COR ea ease Tee ORT ERC ae Josiah Hatch
Office of the Registrar
Re Sistrarin, srs src cern bepedpcusnet noha fei arene Virginia Beets AssistantiRepistramia. A. ieoctaicaie «sie. Martha Morris
Department of Social and Cultural History
Ghai man paced ec cate id da are canes ite ae Claudia B. Kidwell
Vice-Chairman pgtight: sec anaistedys cccaie s Gary B. Kulik CERAMICS AND GLASS
Assistant ‘Gurator woe sora: eae eee Susan Myers
Gurators /Emeriti®s syaaeeee oer ee ce Paul V. Gardner
J. Jefferson Miller II C. Malcolm Watkins
Gollaborator 2s. See eee a ee Joan P. Watkins Bellowe Sine sc orcas ries Sie Aa Hans Syz ResearchwASSOclatell aaa nee aries Ivor Noé] Hume
Gurators see. SN ae ee eed eee Richard E. Ahlborn Carl H. Scheele
COSTUME LGA 01 2111.0. egress SRe ae CAT oe ed Claudia B. Kidwell CuratonEmenitusin enero eae e eee Anne W. Murray
488 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 499>>>

Curators
shatecels is 0) 0\\e use ss wee. (© se «0
Curator
Curators
Research Associates
ite. i=); =
we we, ce! see! sre: sas wife lee) 0 2 wet
ee ee
Curators
Associate Curator
Curator
Assistant Curator
Department of the History of Science ar
Chairman Vice-Chairman
Curators Emeriti
Research Associates
See ets «
alibi letwiheievels ful seis: 0/0) ele) (es & « je) )0) 6
S/Paliejia ei) ele: © sliei/el (alu) 's; =) 66! 16. 6,6
alle) 6, ©) wileriajcal erie; (6, af) 8 ie; a) 8) (6) ee) je) jee
Miwa) ehlal el etree (a) ma) (wile, iel:b) {6 ells) in) iw
Curators
Historian
Research Associate
Honorary Research Associate
Curator
Curator
© lo Mw heli wel eye tere eee is ele «(6 b1'b).6
Anne C. Golovin Rodris C. Roth
Elizabeth M. Harris
John T. Fesperman Cynthia A. Hoover Mrs. Sheridan Germann Charles Fisher
Herbert R. Collins Margaret B. Klapthor Edith P. Mayo
Rita J. Adrosko Gary B. Kulik
1d Technology
Bernard S. Finn
Robert C. Post
Sami K. Hamarneh Susan F. Cannon Derek J. De Solla Price Bern Dibner
Arthur P. Molella Paul Forman Susan J. Douglas Felix Geiger
John T. Schlebecker John N. Hoffman
George T. Sharrer Philip W. Bishop
Uta C. Merzbach
Otto Mayr
Audrey B. Davis Ramunas A. Kondratas
Robert M. Vogel Charles T. G. Looney
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 489

<<<Page: 500>>>

Guiratoriaie oe ec eee as Craddock R. Goins, Jr. Associate @trator pease oo epee aie Donald E. Kloster IRGSCATCHENSSOGIALGI A eneie oe eiiniae ere Anne S. K. Brown
naLONS eee ieee + cam stade oper sevataraaiain ela die Harold D. Langley Philip K. Lundeberg IRescarcheANsSOClatemamianiye ne iererety eras Lee Houchins
CSUR weaves ao etetas e eeneroe te sem oh Eugene Ostroff
GUT ALOT ee ee TR TEC a Si eels Deborah J. Warner Xcsociatel Curator. seria eee ee ee as Jon B. Eklund esearch Associaton tari cc ee ea sees Arthur Frazier TRANSPORTATION GunratOrsies ie one = sae ee Get edtAe ee John H. White Robert C. Post Research Nssociatesmem sare ee aes Peter B. Bell
Arthur D. Dubin George Hilton Melvin H. Jackson
Ceniom HuiStoniane eee erie Tete ae Brooke Hindle Senlomocientitic Scholae eee en eee Robert P. Multhauf
Acting, Director «a. <systoucpekoet= aus s choot = Harold Francis Pfister Administrative Ofticenmc ses ascer see Barbara A. Hart FAUSEORIAM: 1 o,2hie ce cise stat aersrustieraine crs ok Marc Pachter Curator of Painting and Sculpture ...... Robert G. Stewart G@urator/of Exhibitions: 5. <.20-56 565/614 ah Beverly J. Cox Associate Curators of Painting and
Subp EECA es oc atten oye eae ele) Se Monroe Fabian
Ellen Miles
@uraton of Prints. ¢ a 5 sae ceva ars ne ops Wendy Wick Guratoniof Photographsisao-see mele William F. Stapp G@uratorm of Education: 5 i:4..2; Skee ae ees Kenneth Yellis Editor of Publications. 26-00... 025)2Frances S. Wein Chief, Design and Production ......... Nello Marconi Keeper, Catalog of American Portraits .. . Mona Dearborn National Survey Coordinator, Catalog
of ‘Amenican! Portraits s<) ilies... 632 Richard K. Doud
Editor of the Charles Willson Peale Papers and Historian of American
Graltnnes 2 tc Oe ee eta te Lillian B. Miller Librarian (Acting), NMAA/NPG ......... Susan Gurney SeniomG@onsenvatolie eae ree ee ce Rosamond Westmoreland Senionbnotocraphen ices ee ere Eugene Mantie Sates ine eer ie ere nicer Acro ache oe CEN Ere Suzanne Jenkins PubliceA farms, Officert. oases oer Sandra Westin
490 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 501>>>

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES op egrihtyy <cegih RRO Sh Reegernne cae Wilcomb E. Washburn
MRMEEIN GE ioe. 2 oa. s craft disas s oa's oe Ralph Rinzler MEPBEILOUKIOTISE =o. se eee oe odes Peter Seitel MPEINIVISICOIOPISE . 2. ee ee ee ee eee Thomas Vennum Meeministrative Officer ................ Betty Beuck Seperam Coordinator ............5.... Jeffrey LaRiche Mememam OPeCialist ... 25 ne ee eee Diana Parker TES Ala Sey At Susan Kalcik
Jack Santino
Steven Zeitlin ( ACASTE | US See ae De eee ene eae Richard Derbyshire EME Sots iets Shes Fase: Daphne Shuttleworth
Mticcimvianagcen ...2.ccses.c sce cee ee. Kristie Miller
Prsistant oecretary, o. 26. ce ccieaiseiss ea Paul N. Perrot eecutive Assistant ..........s.ss..6. William N. Richards BEEIUCASSISEANE «0.062 ce sie eae W. Donald Duckworth
2 CNEETID NII BE Ei Pe ee Robert M. Organ Supervisor (Archaeometry) ............ Jacqueline S. Olin Supervisory Conservator .............. Eleanor McMillan Supervisory Conservation-Scientist .... Timothy Padfield Maministrative Officer ...............-. Vernetta M. Williams
ee Eig cio es bat oye. 5 James A. Mahoney BeesrG hat hie: ais « aeceuele ss a6 ees ee ete John C. Widener Excuministrative Officer ....:.5....0.s55 William M. Clark, Jr. BimemorelrOduchon: 25. oss. isos s0e sos John C. Widener Supervisor, Exhibits Specialist ......... Kenneth R. Clevenger Supervisor, Exhibits Specialist
BHICOLMMAKEL)) so.4 siyciae ev eisie on vere weer Walter G. Sorrell
—CCIREETEDYP Ja A BST SIR er Sia Oe eo James R. Buckler SEIGraie OineCtON ba.c-s..ccce0seouesi ees John W. Monday Chief of Education Division ........... Lauranne C. Nash Foreman, Grounds Management Division Kenneth Hawkins Foreman, Greenhouse Nursery Division. August A. Dietz IV Exhibits Design Specialist ............. Kathryn L. Meehan
Ee USPSA Ca Sree en eee Kennedy B. Schmertz Se TTECEGT hts Fes SE dos coon wie Richard T. Conroy
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 491

<<<Page: 502>>>

Program Officer (0.226 hones eneniee eee LeRoy Makepeace International Liaison Specialist ........ Saundra Tilghman-Thomas
Program Managers. .ccisecoe ess esiere ere Jane R. Glaser Training Program Coordinator ........ Nancy L. Welch Native American Museum Training
GoordinatOn oe esl ones James A. Hanson Conservation Information Program
Poordinatonteicn a hyacmied hs cima Elena Borowski uve broductionsopectalista. +... ames Peter Erikson AMVE Productions opectalists.ee ae ee Eleanor Crow Musetim Evaluator ic ss. <0 26 e6 snus cas Dr. Robert L. Wolf Museum Reference Center Librarian ... Rhoda S. Ratner
ROR ISERAG coek sae cs oe sie slsto is ene ees oyopeavae Philip Leslie Assistant REGIStEAl eee cians atic Mary W. Lund Management Analyst: soo! 0.5... Melva S. Elmer
PECHIVISE Oe Cnn iene Meise ee Richard H. Lytle Deputy PATCHIVISE: ooo sc.yeio eae earner William A. Deiss ASSociateP Archivists sss ie eta Alan L. Bain
James R. Glenn
Richard V. Szary IASsistanteAnchiviStsmaneerintiieireie ice William E. Cox
Gail McMillan
William R. Massa, Jr.
James A. Steed Eistonian pe see Cen yo ooo eee Pamela M. Henson Supervisory Archives Technician ...... Norwood N. Biggs
Director: ? \ Sa eae | ae eee & 0 ohio Robert M. Maloy Special Assistants seek ot. 2 tier store Silvio A. Bedini
Sharon H. Sweeting Systems/Planning Assistant ........... Stephen Toney Administrative Officer: 22.42.2425 4.0842... Anthony J. Kohlrus Associate Director and Chief,
Bibliographies Systemsnene ae seer Vija L. Karklins Chief, Acquisitions Services ........... Mildred D. Raitt Monographs Purchasing and
Gift/Exchange Librartan. 2.2% ....2a 2..< William B. Neff Senialsalibranianyw seam eee cise Lucien R. Rossignol Chief, Automated Bibliographic
Gontrolpe caries Sore © cee ce Sse core Victoria Avera @hief, bindingaServices aeancecene act: Mary J. Pierce GhiefGataloguesRecords® > cases eee Neal T. Turtell Ghief@Originaliindexing ia. eesm cere eee Mary Jane H. Linn
Senrorsiibrananis sss ce oes Bertha S. Sohn Chief, Collection Management
Divisione esas ake ee ee eee eee Jack S. Goodwin Chief, Book Conservation Laboratory .. Johannes H. Hyltoft
492 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 503>>>

Chief, Reader Services Division ........ Sylvia J. Churgin
Online Reference Services .......... Susan Van Haften-Mackler Chief Librarian, National Museum of Smeal EAISCOLY «ss ccc ne eines oe Mary C. Gray Anthropology Librarian ............ Janette K. Saquet Eotanyeleib arian... 6 6 cues. ieee) « be es Ruth F. Schallert empomology Librarian .............Ruth Hodges Museum Support Center Librarian ... Karen Preslock Chief Librarian, National Air and POEOMIVANISCHIIM 2)..2\. ae oles eisile mime os Catherine D. Scott Seeistamt Librarian ........65s8s005 Marcell Mayer Chief Librarian, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory .......... Joyce M. Rey Chief Librarian, National Museum of PRERiCATPISLOLY ee ric eieie heels ae Frank A. Pietropaoli Pexistanh Librarians 4.5.2.5. 6..000.55 Charles G. Berger Barbara F. Veloz Chief Librarian, Special Collections .... Ellen B. Wells Seeoistant Librarian .. o....2.0.02 + Mary A. Rosenfeld
Chief Librarian, Cooper-Hewitt Museum _ Robert C. Kaufmann Chief Librarian, Museum Reference
CRITE eit Be BS RE ie ere ee sama Rhoda S. Ratner Chief Librarian, Museum of African Art. Janet L. Stanley Chief Librarian, National Zoological
3 Sse SIAL RSS eee a Kay Kenyon BESeaTGheANsSsOClate’. aaj. secs as see 6 Jean Chandler Smith
MRPE CLOTS esac ieee tsi ee as aa or eed Peggy A. Loar BripliceAtfains Officers sah oc hase see ele Eileen Harakal Assistant Director for Administration
amerropram Analysis) ......./...:. Antonio Diez Bblications Officer ../..6 05s s06sas0068 Andrea Stevens RES MIME PIS ERAT or.) 2 1c sisi or sio Soo spoueialans eves Emily Dyer emisthan fOr Ohippimg...). c< cel s 2 Mary Sheridan Registrar for Scheduling .............. Vera Hyatt Assistant Director for International
RG ETIGIOTE ee ONO CE OR ROTC LO ORCI Ono Eileen Rose Bxprbitions Coordinator .. .)..,....6 6666. Donald McClelland Assistant Director for Program
PNCMNVINISETACION) nays es asses vyasiy se as Deborah Dawson Exhibitions Coordinators .............. Martha Cappelletti
Nancy Davis Elizabeth Driscoll Betty Teller Meeeation Specialist ....5.6...0. 000558 Marjorie Share eiication Coordinators ........-.....5 Susan D. Boer Deborah Lerme Assistant Director for Exhibition BEPOIOPINICHE (13,058 Jette teks ots sate Anne R. Gossett
UE ATT SCCLCEATY) !546) 05. be apnalels oe aes Julian T. Euell MCRTIBCVeEUASSIStanb sss. dete ace chines Vincent L. MacDonnell
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 493

<<<Page: 504>>>

DivectOriirs 5005 coe Hot ae roe eee OEE John R. Kinard Adiimistrativies Oicen mse errr Audrey Archer FAIStOTiaMy to nine se racieicucls pies heloke itor kote ete Louise D. Hutchinson Exhibits Program Manager ............ Victor Govier Education: Specialists... c.5 nei ts ater is) 1s Zora Martin-Felton Supervisory Visual Information
SPecialisk wen shit loins apts pe aie tee akaes Sharon Reinckens Supervisory Exhibits Specialist ........ James Mayo
DITECKOL is oe eltote ders esi arate archos eur James R. Morris ResearchrSpecialist:< sce +2. \sica ors steis bi Sharyn Huriaux Reitz Business Manager eerie cn ects se Joe Reed Boxt OfficesManager ianece ike oii tele Ann Norton Director, Jazz and American Culture
Propramish 24: cies scree cinemas eas Martin Williams Director, Chamber Music Programs .... James M. Weaver Director, Program in Black American
Cults ys eR eee ee ores Bernice Johnson Reagon Director, Museum Programs ........... Shirley Cherkasky Director, Education Services ........... Cynthia A. Hightower Director, Marketing and
Commiunicationst-mpecicee ae Sally Roffman TechnicalsDirectomins 5. sticer ose eee Harold A. Closter PubliceAttairs Oticeniae eet eEeee Manuel J. Melendez
Director? Soh 35 ern ecco: John E. Estes
Education Program Coordinator ....... Ann Bay
Museum Education Specialist ......... Thomas Lowderbaugh Special Education Coordinator ......... Janice Majewski Program Assistant. oc oi )si05024)0 ore 2s whee Evelyn Reese
OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS Director ye See Oe oe ae Selo or Wilton S. Dillon
Associate: Directons” (5) ajc ses syisy0 6 o553 Dorothy Richardson Carla M. Borden
Director). eee eV ere ees Nazaret Cherkezian AGsistantiOimectOrs tye oo hia caeie ictal are Paul B. Johnson Telecommunications Specialists ........ Ann M. Carroll Jean B. Quinnette Production Coordinator =. 0.0. 2242 4.se0 Lawrence E. Kline Radio Production Specialists ........... Jesse E. Boggs
Radio Production/Marketing Specialist . John P. Meehan Denise E. Freeland
494 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 505>>>

Director eamess Manager .-6)52). (ce mecesssces SRC MT a PERS AS aby hits. ea 5) os ana vaee
Photo Editor
Glen B. Ruh Janet Woodward Joseph Goodwin Alexis Doster III Nancy Strader
Director MMEGHOT EMeTtlS 2.65 ces ces eens ne Assistant Director and Managing Editor,
Meneralelublicationsym st. ee. + Assistant Director and Managing Editor,
Series Assistant to the Director and
Administrative Officer Brodietion Manager oa. enter ences oss ior (DESTEepemle de op bomomona sa oF Distribution Manager
Miicisiie: facie! S| lel/e)pelielcs) kei \wileNwiel (eis) a) le e\-e'lelia) 0, 07's
Saipmi tay wimlien le hetiteye,:¢. wim) whim jeu/elaleive! a vejve neta) (s,s,
Editor Publisher SEUATICIVe EGILOR) aceite ie eres oteat ers Members, Board of Editors:
Caroline Despard
Grayce P. Northcross
Edwards Park
Bennett Schiff Associate Publisher, Advertising ....... Associate Publisher, Circulation ....... MEP NIANAPED ..ciiots ss cosets oe ats Broduction Manager .-......-.....05.. Consultant to the Secretary ...........
Felix C. Lowe Edward F. Rivinus
Maureen R. Jacoby Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.
Georgiana Hahn Lawrence J. Long Stephen J. Kraft Frederick H. MacVicar
Don Moser Joseph J. Bonsignore Ralph Backlund
Paul Trachtman John P. Wiley, Jr. Richard L. Williams
Thomas H. Black Anne Keating
Carey O. Randall Nannie Shanahan Edward K. Thompson
Director BPD ITECEOD |. 6 we ec es ewe e es Meera EdItOr 2... . ee eee tee eee ees Manager, Staff Volunteer Services ..... Manager, Public Inquiry Mail ......... Coordinator, Group Information Services Coordinator, Telephone Information Services BetecE VaNACER a. coe dees moe ee
Mary Grace Potter Carolyn Clampitt Maria Heasly Sally Covel
Nancy Wyeth
Lois Brown
Gretchen Latimer Bee Gee Livsey
LURE cme eee ah at i, Sarasa ae
OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT meeeey Director’ 2). sek oe es a ee
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 495
James McK. Symington
E. Jeffrey Stann

<<<Page: 506>>>

Associate Development Officers ........
ResearchuAssistanteine rt see eee NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM
DDITCCEORT Se iro ion claiere ees eieyenaiane Program’ Arialyst (oso. sew sos se > es oe Administrative Coordinator ...........
Regional Events
ProgramuMVianagen sy. de scec net aactce se Program Assistants. ia) aeren tt enero. = are
Contributing Membership
ProgramiVianagen morn. cece eee Program Assistant 2 cierto ctelciois oe eve cieres
Selected Studies
Program Manager: 2. sls. ss nips)< seas Program! iAssistant) ti. cistsiace cee selene
Associates Travel
Programe Manacenriaciieie eerie Olle: Deputy Program Manager ............. Foreign Study Tour Program Manager ..
DirectOra scores Sonera Associate Director tae nee ee eee ee Administrative: Oficerm eer ashe nia Program) Goordinatorsaeiys aero
Associate Program Coordinators .......
Public Information Specialist .......... Art: Directors 55 350. eiassen see eee cle Membership Coordinator ............. Registration, Manager). 3 ie 2.. mses Assistant Registration Manager ....... Volunteer) @oordinator janes eae:
Assistant) Secretary <2 osscis + cusciconene Planning: Omer: 1c acs aheuerona ee vee 4s Contracting Officer, Contracts Office ... Director, Management Analysis Office .. Director, Office of Computer Services .. Director, Office of Equal Opportunity .. Director, Office of Facilities Services ...
496 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Arthur W. Gardner Ronda R. Simms Salvatore G. Cilella, Jr. Susan J. Kal¢ik
Robert H. Angle Marta Doggett Abby Whitenack
Charlene James Amy Kotkin MaryBeth Mullen
Jessie Brinkley Jenny Martin
Nancy Starr Nancy Mitchell
Jacqueline Austin Prudence Clendenning Barbara Tuceling
Janet W. Solinger Michael C. Alin Eugene S. Szopa Paul J. Edelson Edward P. Gallagher Moya B. King Christine Parker Diane Lynn Arkin Karen M. Gray Alice Dana Spencer Helen A. Marvel Margaret V. Lee Jeanne B. George Marjorie Lee Walker Xenia Sorokin Arnelle Elinor K. Emlet
John F. Jameson Robert L. Farrell Elbridge O. Hurlbut John G. Motheral Stanley A. Kovy Will Douglas, Jr. Tom L. Peyton, Jr.

<<<Page: 507>>>

Director, Office of Design and Construction Director, Office of Plant Services .... Director, Office of Protection Services. Director, Office of Personnel Administration Director, Office of Printing and maotographic Services ...........-.Director, Office of Programming and Budget Director, Office of Supply Services ..... Director, Travel Services Office ........
a) e's, slate fel eke (sp! Ste ate) 6 .e/.0 9; (e
al fel abiefe) solve! (6 s\ve! © celta; a) = a’ © (8/0) (0
Phillip K. Reiss Kenneth E. Shaw Robert B. Burke, Jr.
Howard Toy James H. Wallace, Jr. Jon E. Yellin
Harry P. Barton Ann H. Krafthofer
SESE STG oe RE ee eC fee CRE rece mrecistant to the Treasurer ............ Beeemcial Analyst (4. ook. sete oe caine « Mirector, Accounting Office ........... Assistant Director, Accounting Services . Assistant Director, Financial Systems ... Director, Office of Grants and Risk LETRAS One Re ate Bel GIES BM ERe Bla oO oiiete eee Assistant Director, Grants Management. Assistant Director, Risk Management .. Director, Business Management Office .. Assistant to the Director, Business mimacement Office)... 2.2... 56.'. 4 Controller, Business Management Office. Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops .. Director (Acting), Mail Order Division . Director, Department of Food Services .. Manager (Acting), Parking Office ...... Director, Belmont Conference Center ...
Christian C. Hohenlohe John R. Clarke
Frances C. Rooney Allen S. Goff
James W. Evans
John P. Howser
Phillip H. Babcock Rick R. Johnson Alice R. Bryan Richard O. Griesel
Ann McClellan Miller Ohlen J. Boyd
James J. Chmelik Donald E. Press
John A. Goecker Charles K. Ruffin Mary B. Force
mererascounselii.s.: 62.0.0. 2 Seed « Associate General Counsel ............ Assistant General Counsels:
Robert A. Dierker Marie C. Malaro Suzanne D. Murphy
George S. Robinson Marsha S. Shaines
Peter G. Powers Alan D. Ullberg
Sharon A. White James I. Wilson
MEE CSE ONT SOA 1 Fo Pte ree UES oe awe Ne ee Special Assistant Science Writer
Lawrence Taylor Eileen Hall
Alvin Rosenfeld Richard Friedman Madeleine Jacobs
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 497

<<<Page: 508>>>

Public Information Specialists ......... David Maxfield Linda St. Thomas
Publications Oficer err. sere ieee Susan Bliss
Information @Oficersiea, score aes lite Mary Combs Johnnie Douthis Katheryn Lindeman Lilas Wiltshire
Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Margaret Hird Congressional Liaison Assistant ....... Carey Wilkins
BI MECLOR (ce ie a oe Hake intra ae oe os Barbara Spraggins Assistant DinectOny sectshs a2 eels oceans ss Marilyn Hughes
Director heey ciiwce cs aa. lonee se eee res James H. Billington Deputy ‘Directort)s . 0h os. ie o verano ars 2m Prosser Gifford Pelion eS os areas Shee sori has antl och haa Peter Braestrup Aba Giat yee ha lvare Srse pen petegarota tons or hence = Zdenék V. David Publications Program Manager ........ Elizabeth Dixon Assistant Director for Administration .. William M. Dunn Secretary, Kennan Institute ........... Abbott Gleason Coordinator, East Asia Program ....... Ronald A. Morse Secretary, American Society and Politics
PEOGE AT once chaes waeresde is ey hecucieeone io ae ae Michael J. Lacey Secretary, Latin American Program .... | Abraham F. Lowenthal Assistant Director for Development .... George Liston Seay
Assistant Director for Fellowships and Coordinator of History, Culture, and
SOCICHYA Mes aera Sear oe harsieeuieee eee Ann Sheffield Executive Assistant to the Director ..... Mernie Wright Weathers Secretary, International Security Studies
Program | cc: Sil ee meee eoeseteic aes Samuel F. Wells, Jr.
AGLISELCHDIFECLOI Ga cys ara cisloee 4 owe Ons Mosestione Marta Istomin Director ioet@perationsi esse ae ee Thomas R. Kendrick Deputy Director of Operations ........ Geraldine M. Otremba General Manager of Theaters ......... Judith O’Dea Morr Associate Manager of Theaters ........ Richard H. Owens GComp troller, (5. aden eaaitoetes cle Clifton B. Jeter Director of Development 4.5244. 2222 Jillian H. Poole Director of Building Services .......... Edward G. Schessler Budgeti@fficert she, Once tick toca cia. Verda V. Welch Administrative Assistant for
Rrop ramming ie.7nee caper. perce siete on Wayne Richardson Director olfsEducattone. seater eee o. Jack W. Kukuk Marketing iWiana genni: och Bele ars «2 John H. McAuliffe
498 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 509>>>

Director of Public Relations ........... Leo Sullivan
BRO! SALES Wy: 2s Gia de ow oe Carl A. Matte melevision Consultant ......./5.... 06% Chloe Aaron Theater Productions Consultant ....... Ralph G. Allen Minority Affairs Consultant ........... Archie L. Buffkins Technical Systems Consultant ........ Alexander Morr
Chairman of the Board ............... Mrs. Elliot Richardson  LERGICTEE: 5 ASA EVs ee et Gen erates ened rege Ruth Graves Executive Assistant and Office Manager. Nancy J. Lewis Mirector of Field Services ............. Carolyn Gunn Thorne Director of Financial Operations and
MERMAN UE TOCCES) 2215.00 lecis tre ats ete < oi «is Christina D. Mead Director of Publications and Research .. Kristine S. Wilcox Director of Supplier and Organizational
SSCL ALLON SPM rio cite crakio sics Sean Saude OBE Barbara B. Atkinson Communications Control Coordinator .. Dewan R. Vines Regional Program Coordinators ........ Curtis L. Brown
Denise Bulluck Jessie L. Lacy Barbara Melnicove
Subcontract and Data Retrieval Officer . Peter Shaw Resource Coordination Specialist ...... Deborah K. Stoeckle Gem VIAN AGED Gi) 5) -(<ya.8.adeiteelans & cishere Donna M. Wagley Assistant Finance Manager ........... John A. Crance Materials/Supplies Manager .......... Calvin L. McFadden
TL STAGE ee Sa encanto David F. Hersey Vice President, Scientific Affairs Division Donald A. Elliott Vice President (Acting), Data
meocessing Division .....-..-.0..+s. David F. Hersey Meedcurer (Acting) -.... 0.05.) ..e5008 Evelyn M. Roll Assistant Treasurer and Secretary ..... Evelyn M. Roll
RBM Pe cs BEES, Ah derdily Ale ss wack Donald A. Elliott tna, MTECHON (2152 bauer dl DG Se ore dwt Lily Ayad
—SCrELTIE eA eT eee = Sea na oe ed Donald A. Elliott MEIPITECEOR . ot Si é. due eee oid Aledo los Charlotte M. Damron Chief, Medical Sciences Branch ........ Charlotte M. Damron Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch ..... Rhoda Goldman Mhief, Social Sciences Branch .......... Ann Riordan
Remmeaee CACHE) Io) shi\5. BCE RE Ra Donald A. Elliott BeesEY WITECEOR: | heli is Wie thane 2. ale Samuel Liebman memet, Chemistry Branch’......25.... ; Samuel Liebman Chief, Agricultural Sciences Branch .... | William T. Carlson
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 499

<<<Page: 510>>>

Chief (Acting), Biological Sciences Branch Chief, Materials and Engineering Branch Chief, Physics, Mathematics and ElectronicsbranChimertorirtraeteri trie Chief (Acting), Earth Sciences Branch ..
€ e000) ©) oe) la)ie) wise fOl.m 0) e: Welle ig 06,0) 6 sa
Director (Acting) |Diejoybiny IDInCAelore main andbacgndouebonoGc Manager, Systems Development Branch . Manager, Input Services Branch ....... Manager, Programming and Reports Services Branch Manager, Computer Operations Branch .
© 2 6 wee © eeele ese ses 0 0
President ies.) oie ara mowts so seete simes es) alas Vice: President)... ...cjtbtsie oe te filed to) at Director Assistant Director Dean, Center for Advanced Study in thegVaisttall Antsiicaysecsisci sc terefetebe ca cuetets (SETS MO Ghia ows. ca cane cat Gx cd Giro we Administrator Secretary-General Counsel ............ Gonstruction) Manager) <5 ce. -ei Assistant to the Director, Music ....... Assistant to the Director, Public Information, acc cme ici aceeni te. Assistant to the Director, Special Events. Planning ‘Constiltamt re. ..6.<t sncie scrote 01s Curator of American Painting ......... Chicklibrartan tic ctr icra es eens Chief, Education Department .......... Head, Extension Program Development . Head, Art Information Service ........ Editor: og ancccon as ctor ayatte erent Chief, Photographic Laboratory ....... Curator of Photcgraphic Archives ..... Head, Photographic Services .......... Senior(Gonservatore seers setae scree are Head, Exhibitions and Loans .......... Head, Department of Design and Installations seas nee mleateteree REPIStrat iiss icsiew oc Maou ee ws ea ses Gurator of Graphic “Arts. 2 oe aco Oss Curator of Early Italian and Tuscan AIM CI et tas oe chayes Olan steve daha) core cuca aets Curator of Northern and Later Italian Painting. >< 16 shee ces Seite cnael.: Curator of Italian Drawings Curator of French Painting Curator of French Prints
Shwe s eie) ib elec alsvel.eiel ejb Dub) ake) wre) 5m je)16)he
s|@ 0) ei) u ws mimieie je epee © 6 sip _e
500 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Anna May Tensaw William H. Payne
Robert Summers Chalmer G. Dunbar
David F. Hersey Bernard L. Hunt Bernard L. Hunt Jack Devore
Robert A. Kline Paul Gallucci
John R. Stevenson Carlisle H. Humelsine J. Carter Brown Charles P. Parkhurst
Henry A. Millon Robert C. Goetz Joseph G. English Carroll J. Cavanagh Hurley F. Offenbacher Richard Bales
Katherine Warwick Carol M. Fox
David W. Scott
John H. Wilmerding J. M. Edelstein Margaret I. Bouton Ruth R. Perlin
Elise V. H. Ferber Theodore S. Amussen William J. Sumits Ruth Rowe Philbrick Ira A. Bartfield Victor C. B. Covey Jack C. Spinx
Gaillard F. Ravenel Peter Davidock, Jr. Andrew C. Robison, Jr.
David A. Brown
Sheldon Grossman Diane DeGrazia Bohlin David E. Rust
H. Diane Russell

<<<Page: 511>>>

Beecron of Sculpture v.02 ti. wine ees Douglas Lewis, Jr.
Curator of Twentieth-Century Art ..... E. A. Carmean, Jr. Curator of Northern European Painting. John O. Hand Murator of Dutch Painting ............ Arthur K. Wheelock Curator, Department of Graphic Arts .. Ruth Fine Assistant Dean, Center for Advanced
Study in the Visual Arts ............ Marianna Shreve Simpson Mesistant Administrator ............. George W. Riggs Associate Secretary—General Counsel ... __ Elizabeth A. Croog Bereriit SECLetALY. . cece eee wees ee Kathryn K. Bartfield MUTI CGICED we ies es ees Michael B. Bloom
Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Subsidiaries / 501

<<<Page: 512>>>

APPENDIX 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1981
The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for their generous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inadvertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian wishes to thank them for their generosity.
Donors to the Furnishings Collection
Mrs. Roger Cornell: 1 safe, 1 pier table, 1 what-not, 1 walnut table, 1 arm chair, 1 side chair, 1 library table, 1 stool.
Estate of Bernard Baumann: 1 etching, 1 oil painting, 1 bookcase.
CAC Associates: 1 Murphy bed, 1 wall sconce, 1 folding table.
Mr. Donald Parsons: 1 gilt framed mirror.
Mrs. Jane Planck: 1 desk.
Mrs. Ilka Renwick: 2 nineteenth-century Bibles.
Mrs. Morton Rose: 1 glass case with mounted birds.
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner: 5 etchings, 19 watercolors, 7 oil paintings.
Countess von Bismarck: designer clothing.
Donors of Financial Support
Mr. Paul S. Baker Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey B. Lee Mr. and Mrs. Howard A. Beiles Mr. Donald S. Lopez Mr. Walter J. Boyne Helen J. McCray Canadian Aviation Historical Society Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith, Mr. William G. Carpenter Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Sid Covington Mr. and Mrs. Marsden K. Miller Clara W. and Elena Ellis Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Mitchell The Fay Improvement Company Mr. James C. Reddig Mr. and Mrs. Claude I. Guinn Mr. and Mrs. John P. Reeder A. W. Hargrove Insurance Agency, Ridge & Valley Soaring Club Inc. Science Teachers Workshop Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Harrison Committee Mr. and Mrs. Cass S. Hough Mr. and Mrs. David S. Scott Mr. and Mrs. Frederick E. Lane Miss Angelica Similly Mr. and Mrs. Roland W. Langhorst Mr. and Mrs. Roland D. Swanson Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Laymon Mr. and Mrs. Joe Van Wingerden
502 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 513>>>

Donors to the Collections
Aerolineas Argentinas: model of a deHavilland Comet 4. Col. William B. Arnold: General H. H. Arnold’s flag of General of the Air Force; 1 painting General Arnold, by Charles Baskerville. Aviation Warehouse, Inc.: B-17 ball turret. Mrs. Audrey Balchen: 5 watercolors and 4 drawings by Bernt Balchen. Black Hills Aviation, Inc.: Boeing B-17G Flying Fortress. Mr. Richard L. Brant: model of Nakajima Kitta. Mr. Steve Bryant: model of Bell P-59A Aerocomet. Mr. Mark Chases: 1 untitled sculpture by Bijan Bahar. Mr. Cliff M. Cheifetz: RCA-MI12045 headset and microphone. Mr. E. D. Cook: 1 compass, 1 map, 1 mirror. Mrs. Hereward L. Cooke: 1 drawing, Moonscape, by Hereward L. Cooke. Desert Air Parts, Inc.: Beechcraft C-17L. Mr. Alberta de Silva Pereira: 4 Air Portugal badges. Dorothy Fiske Memorial Fund: 1 drawing, Exploratory Moon-Probe Lunacycle “Maud,” by Rowland Emett. Mr. Daniel J. Dossert: models of sAaB J29F and Heinkel He 178. Mr. Frederick C. Durant: Navy flying headset. Earth Satellite Corporation: 20 Landsat photographs. Fairchild Republic Company: Fairchild Republic A-10 instrument panel. GDA Advertising Inc.: 2 mixed-media art works, Aviation, by Chet Jezierski, and Telecommunications, by Mark English. General Dynamics Corporation: model of General Dynamics F—16. General Electric Corporation: GE CI 805 Turbojet. Mr. Harvey Gernsback: 1 painting, Gravity Flyer, by Frank Paul. _ Mr. William V. Gough: post-World War II, U.S. Naval aviator’s suit, insignias, and accessories. The James Smithson Society: 1 painting, Bader Bail-Out, by Frank Wootton. _ Mrs. Benjamin Kelsey: 1 painting, Curtiss JN—4d Jenny, by Daniel J. Layman. Mr. Gregory Kennedy: U.S. Army field belt. Mr. Ray Kingan: World War II service cap. Mr. Jury Koroliov: 1 painting, General Constructor S. P. Koroliov, by donor. Mr. William Koster: model of MIG—15 and Gloster Meteor. Mr. Edward Kuklewicz: U.S. Army shirt, World War II. Laker Airways Ltd.: 1 painting, Laker 30 . . . Cleared Oceanic, by Walter Wright. L’Association Francais Pour les Celebrations Nationales: commemorative medal for Flight of Bellonte & Costes, 1930. Mr. Charles J. Leary: commemorative plaque, Transatlantic Flight by Bremen, 1928. Mr. Andrew F. Lech: WACO-10 model. Mr. Robert Lehmacher: miscellaneous pieces of USAAF, USAF, and USN equipment. Lockheed Missile and Space Corporation: space telescope model. Mr. Donald S. Lopez: air navigation computer. Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Majewski: usaar 7th Balloon Company map case. Mr. Clarence Measelle: 1 painting, Cessna, by donor. Mr. Louis K. Meisel: 1 silkscreen print, Shatzi, by Tom Blackwell. Mr. Robert B. Meyer: insignia of Civil Air Patrol, usar Auxiliary. Mr. Robert C. Mikesh: Antilles Air Lines employee badge. Military Aircraft Storage and Disposal Center, McDonnell RF-101C nose section. Mr. F. Paul Miller: fabric from R—34 airship. Ivonette and Harold S. Miller: original fabric from Wright 1903 Flyer. Mr. Skip Miller: radio controlled sailplane model.
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 503

<<<Page: 514>>>

Dr. Frank K. Mitchell: model of Gloster E-28/29.
Mr. Robert C. Mitchell: World War II Army belt and eyeglasses.
MPB Corporation: 4 paintings, Douglas A—D4 Skyraider, Curtiss SBC—4 “Scout Bomber’, Vought F4FU-4 ‘Corsair’, and Consolidated PBY—5A, all by R. G. Smith.
M. T. V. Company: replica of von Ohain He $3B turbojet engine.
Mr. Richard A. Murray: sculpture, Altravaz, by donor.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration: 3 drawings, Esterna Circolare Destra, Interna Circolare Sinistra, and Tondo for Softlander, by Charles Schmidt.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Langley Research Center: 1 — wind tunnel model, Boeing 767 model, Boeing 757 model, Lockheed L1011 model, DC—10 series model, structural test components, laminar flow control systems.
National Space Club: 1 drawing, Robert H. Goddard, by Eldon Kaeding.
Mr. Harvey Page: 2 aircraft recognition napkins.
Mr. Richard G. Pallas: knife from Zeppelin.
Paramount Pictures Corporation: 5 paintings of scenes from Star Trek, by Robert T. McCall.
Mr. George A. Petersen: 1 electrically heated shoe insert.
Capt. Matthew H. Portz: U.S. Navy shoes.
Pratt & Whitney Corporation: Pratt & Whitney JT3 turbojet engine.
Dr. George Duncan Robertson: Le Rhone 80 HP World War I rotary engine.
Rockwell International Corporation: Space Shuttle model.
Mr. Leo Sanders: U.S. Navy World War I compass.
Mr. Allan F. Schanzle: glider model.
Mr. R. H. Schlepper: 11 flight instruments. |
Guido Singer (gift of), courtesy of National Aeronautics and Space Adminis— tration: Delta 3914 model. |
Mr. V. D. Smith: pennant from International Aviation Meet, Chicago, 1911.
Mr. John D. Stewart, Ms. Lynn C. Davis, and Mr. Van L. Hartman: fabric from the tail fin of Star Cavalier N-31N.
Mr. Robert Storck: flying jacket, trousers, and shoes, Caproni-Campini model.
Ms. Susan Tennant: sculpture, Tri-Plane with Aerobatic Wing Walkers, by donor.
Ms. Alma W. Thomas: 3 untitled watercolors by donor.
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner: 7 paintings entitled, Space Interpretation, by Ludwig Kroutie.
U.S. Air Force: 1 cannon, 1 bomb.
U.S. Navy, U.S. Atlantic Fleet: U.S. Navy life preserver, U.S. Navy flight deck crewman’s equipment.
U.S. Navy, Office of the Secretary: Nakajima B6N2 Jill.
U.S. Senate, Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: North American X—15 model.
U.S. Department of Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: World War II German machine-gun magazine.
Capt. Theodore G. Williams: World War I, U.S. Army uniform accessories.
Mr. E. T. Wooldridge, Jr.: summer flying suit.
Donors to the National Air and Space Museum Library and Archives
DONOR OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT Time-Life Books Inc.
Mrs. James Scott Appleby: memorabilia of James Scott Appleby comprising over 9,000 photographs and data on aircraft, both civil and military. All
504 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 515>>>

complete sets of Flight, Flight International, and Jane’s All the World’s Aircraft, 1924-1971.
Dr. Martin J. Cook: photograph and autograph collection of World War II servicemen by Jeanne Naatz.
L. A. T. Ege: 3 photographs of Colonel and Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh.
Ms. Loredana Sgueglia Giurco: archival material on women in astronautics.
L. D. Groves: sketch of Lieut. Col. Harry Abbott.
Harry S. Truman Library: Horace E. Weihmiller’s papers (1932-1962), aircraft designer and consultant.
A. E. Hill: 5 photographs of Glenn Curtiss, Tom Blakely, Frank H. Ellis, Marjorie Stinson, Eugene Ely, and the wreckage of Admiral Byrd’s America.
Mr. Charles Holt: commemorative air-mail letters, dated May 15, 1918, and July 15, 1918.
Mr. Charles E. Johnson: scrapbook of Foggia, World War I Bomber Squadron, originally owned by Norman Sweetser.
Ira Milton Jones: program of the nineth and tenth Reunion of the World War I Overseas Flyers.
Lieut. M. J. Kasiuba: 40 slides of military aircraft.
Mr. Steward Luce: documentation of the restoration of the Northrop N3PB.
Mr. James P. Miller: correspondence about Zenos R. Miller in a letter from Major H. E. Hartney, dated July 28, 1918.
Mrs. Sandra Norell: photographic collection owned by Jesse Goss of Fokker Tri-Motor, Dougias TD seaplane, City of Spokane, and other commercial airliners.
Mr. John H. W. Palfrey: poem entitled, Winged Victory.
Mr. Jefferson Patterson: notebooks of Frank S. Patterson, student of aeronautical engineering.
Mr. Louis Anthony Petronio: combat record and list of missions.
Joseph de Casseres Reshower: correspondence of L. W. Brown and Dean B. Hammond; photographs of Mister Mulligan and Lady Peace.
Mr. Robert Salkeld: technical report entitled “Comparison of Advanced Manned Booster and Spacecraft Concepts Utilizing Ground and Airborne Launch Platforms.”
Ryoichi Sasakawa: commemorative Space Expo Official Report (Tokyo, Japan).
Mrs. Margaret E. Schwartz: article entitled, Fifty Golden Years of Alaskan History.
Mr. Mark Spry: scrapbook on the Air Battle of Ploesti.
Mrs. Irene A. Thomas: aeronautical sheet music entitled, Take Me Up With You Dearie.
Mr. James J. White: recording of Charles A. Lindbergh’s Address before the Press Club at Washington, D.C., June 11, 1927.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN Donor of Financial Support NATIONAL HUMAN STUDIES FILM CENTER R. K. Mellon Family Foundation. Donors and Collaborative Acquisitions NATIONAL HUMAN STUDIES FILM CENTER
Mabel H. Brandon: 1,365 feet of master/print film shot by Frederick Wulsin in Africa.
Dr. Robert E. Haupt: 965 feet of master/print film shot in India. Library of Tibetan Works and Archives: 11,860 feet of synch sound research footage of traditional Tibetan Life and culture, filmed in Ladakh (Western
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 505

<<<Page: 516>>>

Tibet); 25,200 feet of synch sound research footage of traditional Tibetan life and culture, filmed in Tibetan monastic communities in India in 1981. Micronesian Area Research Center: 20,000 feet of synch sound research footage on traditional lifestyle of the Western Caroline Islands of Micronesia. Royal Nepal Academy: 53,550 feet of synch sound research footage on the
cultural heritage of Nepal.
Summer Institute of Linguistics, Institute of Papua New Guinea Studies, and the University of Papua New Guinea: 23,250 feet of synch sound research footage from traditional cultures in Papua New Guinea.
William V. Vitarelli: 8,300 feet of master/print film shot in Micronesia 1951— L975:
Professor Scott Williams, Bellevue Community College: 8,000 feet of synch sound research footage on traditional child behavior and social interaction in
Micronesia.
Donors of Financial Support
John P. Albanese
Gudrun Alcock
Mr. and Mrs. R. P. Alexander
Amoco Production Company
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Anderson
Dr. and Mrs. J. Lawrence Angel
Anonymous
Archeological Society of Maryland
Mr. and Mrs. William M. Bass
Dr. Frederick M. Bayer
Dr. Ruth B. Benedict
S. E. Bong and Jung A. E. Kim
Bromeliad Society of Greater Mobile, Inc.
Mrs. A. K. Bullen
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Burger
Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd
Mrs. Leonard Carmichael
Mr. Philip Carpenter
Saeho and Keunpil Chang
Mr. and Mrs. Alan H. Cheetham
Chevron Chemical Company
Han Yong Cho and Sook Tae Cho
Won Hyo and Saungsook Y. Cho
David C. Cho and Virginia I. Cho
Cho’s Quality Market
Thomas H. Chun
Byungkyu Chun and Sughok K. Chun
Augustin I. and Helena K. Chyu
CrBA-GEIGY
Cities Service Company
Mary E. Cline
Mr. and Mrs. Michael D. Coe
Virginia R. Coffey
Dr. and Mrs. Henry B. Collins
Conoco, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. G. Arthur Cooper
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Corredera
William H. Crocker
506 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Mr. and Mrs. Harry M. Diffenbach Doctors Dental Laboratory
Alice L. C. Dodge
Bertha P. Dutton
Helen Eanes
Eastern Construction
Eastern Interior and Construction Chonki S. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Elder Michael G. Emsley
Dr. and Mrs. Mario E. Espinola William H. Evans
Kurt Fredriksson
Irving Friedman
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Frison General Refractories Company Mr. and Mrs. Bruce A. Gerry Lynda L. Gerry
Getty Oil Company
Kay Yun Gim
Aurelio Giroud
Bea Gold
Kie H. Han
Pum S. Han
Ruth Harding
Katherine H. Heimann
Edward Henderson
D. Katherine Hichborn
Amy E. Higgins
Robert Higgins
The Henry L. Hillman Foundation Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Cr @ Hot
Sung-Chull and Chungok Hong Chang-Su Houchins
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Howie
Ju R. Hwang and Soon J. Hwang Mr. and Mrs. David S. Hyman
International Travel and Tour, Inc.

<<<Page: 517>>>

Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Jennings
JWK International Corporation
Peter K. Kang and Remy S. Mitchel
Mr. and Mrs. Porter M. Kier
Chang Sul and Yang Sun Kim
Chung W. and Young J. Kim
Jean Kim
Iksung and Shinhye Kim
Moon C. and Hae Kyung Kim
Shinhye Kim
Sung B. Kim
Wonil and Paulina Kim
Yeong Hi Kim
Karl Edward Koh and Carol Koh
Mun C. Koo
Embassy of Korea
The Korean Artists Association of Greater Washington
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Krantz
Dr. and Mrs. Karl V. Krombein
Bremer Landesbank
Mr. and Mrs. Norman E. Langmaid
Chong W. and Soo Kyung Lee
Hyo Keun Lee
Kwang Ki Lee
Kyu Myung and Rhea C. T. Lee
Sang N. Lee and W. Yong Lee
Woo Soon and Kwang Jae Lee
William S. Lee and Kyong Sil Lee
Young Sook Lee
Yung Keun and Ock Kyung Lee
Lee Financial Resources, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Lowndes
Mr. and Mrs. Howard A. Maccord
Manpower Import & Vis Service, Inc.
Martin Marietta Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Boni Philip Martinez
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation
Brian H. Mason
Mildred G. Metcalf
Elizabeth G. Mixson
The Honorable and Mrs. John S. Monagan
National Capital Shell Club
National Geographic Society
Nonomura Studios
Soo Young Oh and Jung Shim Oh
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Olin
Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Ormston
P & P Industries, Inc.
George G. Pagonis
Department of Paleobiology
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Pang
James J. and Grace S. Park
Keh Soo and Gemma Rhee Park
Mee Yong and J. E. Bom Park
Young Chul and Jeong Suk Park
Colonel and Mrs. John R. Parsons
Mrs. Willie Mae Pelham
Clare M. Peters
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Pfeiffer
Phillips Petroleum
Jack W. Pierce
Mr. and Mrs. G. T. Prance
Ralph E. Pulliam
Lloyd E. Raport
Mr. and Mrs. Clayton Ray
Mr. and Mrs. Harald A. Rehder
Barbara G. Reno
Mr. and Mrs. Saul H. Riesenberg
Mary L. Ripley
Myung Duck Ro
Rodris C. Roth
Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation
Sadur and Pelland, Chartered
Thomas J. Scanlon
Second International Symposium on the Cambrian System
Mr. and Mrs. Joel L. Selig
Sang K. Shin and Young Hee Kim Shin
The Sidney L. Hechinger Foundation
Captain and Mrs. John A. Skinner
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Smith
Societa Nationale Elf Aquitaine (Production)
Sohio Petroleum Corporation
David I. and Ann Lee Steinberg
Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart
Sumner Gerard Foundation
E. Eleanor Taylor
Mr. and Mrs. Dan W. Tews
Katherine Thomas
Time-Life Books, Inc.
Union Oil Company of California
Union Pacific Foundation/Champlin Petroleum Company
Vienna Sportswear of Washington
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wagley
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Waller
Mr. C. Malcolm Watkins
Helena M. Weiss
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research
Western Cultural Management, Inc.
World Wildlife Fund
Jean Davies Wright
Y & D Hobbiescrafts
Seungkil and Chunhae H. Yang
Chung Ki and Sol Yong Yi
Hoon and Song O. Yoo
Tuck Yong and Chong Gyo Yoo
Pong Ro Yoon
James H. and Sue C. Yung
Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Ziarnik
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 507

<<<Page: 518>>>

Donors to the National Collections
Aarhus, University of, Denmark: 240 plants (322329, 341372).
Aberdeen, University of, Scotland: 1 mineral (342744, exchange).
Academia Sinica, China: 250 plants (341387, 343030, exchanges).
Academy of Sciences, USSR: 200 plants (341876, exchange).
Adelaide, University of, Australia: 36 plants (343485, exchange).
Agriculture, U.S. Department of: 639 plants (341432, 343907, 345505); 12 crustaceans (343243); 47,673 insects (342526, 342535, 342542, 344882, 344904, 344905, 346364).
Alaska, University of: 1 walrus (345783).
Alberta, University of, Canada: 10 plants (344597, exchange).
Alfred University: 5 sponges (345341).
American Museum of Natural History: 1 bird skeleton (345435, exchange) ; 280 echinoderms (250390, 344679); 8 weevils (344743), exchange); 1 mineral (345831, exchange).
A. Mickiewicz University, Poland: 2 worm slides (342834).
Annamalia University, India: 2 crustaceans (325402).
Antioquia, University of, Colombia: 31 plants (344601).
Aquatic Research Institute: 1 crustacean (345852).
Archaologisch-Zool. Arbeitsgruppe, Germany: 4 bird skeletons (342312, exchange).
Arizona, University of: 1 bird skin (344913, exchange); 50 birds (345746, 346001); 3 crustaceans (337518); 10 plants (342405).
Arkansas State University: 30 crustaceans (335200).
ARTROX: 1 mineral (342665).
Atomic Energy Commission, U.S.: 12 alligator skeletons (337505).
Auckland, University of, New Zealand: 21 crustaceans (342290, exchange); 3 mollusks (343228).
Australian Institute of Marine Science, Australia: 8 corals (340462).
Australian Museum, Australia: 10 crustaceans (345003); 2 snakes (345900, exchange).
Baltimore Zoo: 1 giant squirrel (341748).
Barry A. Vittor & Associates: 9 crustaceans (343688).
Bay Shore Group: 35 gemstones (343528).
Bergen, University of, Norway: 1 bamboo (345578).
Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 221 plants (341375, 345557, exchanges).
Bideaux Minerals: 3 minerals (342038).
Biological Station, Canada: 4 crustaceans (334321).
Bombay Natural History Society, India: 1 bird skin (343186, exchange).
Boston University, Marine Program: 4,534 crustaceans (341473, 342039, 342340).
Botanisches Museum, Germany: 14 plants (343470, exchange).
Brigham Young University: 1 plant (343478); 7 fossil sponges (345752).
Bristol University, England: 4 minerals (344715).
British Museum (Natural History), England: 2 insect slides (345302); 1 meteorite (342063, exchange); 4 mollusks (343239); 168 plants (342444, 343473, 345564, exchanges).
Calicut, University of, India: 136 plants (341428).
California Academy of Sciences: 18 crustaceans (324583).
California Department of Fish and Game: 100 crustaceans (343120).
California Department of Food and Agriculture: 46 insects (345308, 345309).
California, University of: 283 crustaceans and 29 crustacean slides (336521, 337342, 341657, 342585, 343253, 343552, 344050, 344192); 19 echinoderms (343552); 3 mollusks (343552); 567 plants (343499, 345506, exchanges); 25 worms (343552).
508 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 519>>>

California State University: 3 plants (341857); 14 crustaceans (343650).
Canada Biosystematics Research Institute, Canada: 3 insects (345632).
Canada Geological Survey, Canada: 16 fossils (342503, 343890).
Canada Pacific Biological Station, Canada: 4 crustaceans (342819).
Canberra Botanic Gardens, Australia: 221 plants (343897, 344525, 345084, exchanges) ; 36 plants (345558).
Canfield Fund: 8 minerals (343063, 343215, 343217, 343233, 344657).
Cape Town, University of, South Africa: 1 mineral (341947).
Carnegie Museum of Natural History: 1 plant (345580); 4 turtles (345708, ex-
change).
Centre National de Tri D’Oceanographie Biologique, France: 40 worms (344953).
Centre National L’Exploration des Oceans de Bretagne, France: 39 fossils (343652).
Centre Oceanologigue de Bretagne, France: 1 worm (345956).
Centro Agronomico Tropical de Investigacion, Costa Rica: 26 plants (344587).
Centro de Ciencias del Mar y Limnologia, Mexico: 21 crustaceans (341659).
Centro de Estudios Farmacologicos y de Principios Naturales, Argentina: 8 plants (341419).
Centro de Pesquisas do Cacau, Ceplac, Brazil: 200 plants (336670).
Chamberlain Fund: 1 mineral (340065); 1 topaz (344085); 1 cut emerald (344982).
Charleston Museum: 2 bird skins (343288, exchange).
Clemson University: 1 plant (317232).
Colegio de Postgraduados, Mexico: 15 plants (343466).
Colorado, University of: 14 plants (341371, exchange); 4 plants (342447, 345532); 1 fruit fly (344887).
Commerce, U.S. Department of: 2,011 crustaceans (341793, 342291, 344741); 2 echinoderms (328009); 3 whale dolphins (346362); 3 sea turtles (341272).
Commonwealth Associates, Inc.: 1 worm (346021).
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australia: 1 bamboo (343956).
Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station: 5 insect slides (344421).
Connecticut, University of: 1 plant (345015).
Conservation Consultants, Inc.: 4 crustaceans (330727).
Conservatoire et Jardin Botaniques, Switzerland: 107 plants (344537, 344610, exchanges); 1 plant (345528).
Continental Shelf Associates, Inc.: 2 worms (344838).
Copenhagen, University of, Denmark: 8 plants (341887, exchange); 4 lots of worms (344519).
Cornell University: 55 plants (344619, exchange); 1 plant (344619); 45 worms (339290).
Cureton Mineral Company: 10 minerals (345146, exchange).
Dallas Museum of Natural History: 14 bird skeletons (345313).
Dawes Jade Company: 1 pseudo jade (345404).
Defense, U.S. Department of: 556 echinoderms (320217); 108 insects (344425, 344890); 4 mollusks (342212).
Delaware, University of: 1 mineral (341944, exchange); 1 crustacean (342067).
Departmento De Conservacao Ambiental, FEEMA, Brazil: 15 plants (341855).
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Zealand: 915 plants (343491, 343925); 26 plants (341431, exchange).
Drexel University: 2 worms (343730).
Duke Power Company: 1 lot of worms (345930).
Duke University: 76 plants (343896, exchange).
Eastern Michigan University: 11 plants (344596).
Edificio Centro Colon, Costa Rica: 350 crustaceans (330175),
Epusco Investment Company: 1 blue topaz (343388).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 509

<<<Page: 520>>>

Environmental Protection Agency, U.S.: 20 crustaceans (340729).
Environmental Science and Engineering, Inc.: 30 crustaceans (343402).
Escuela Nacional de Agricultura, Mexico: 29 plants (345563, exchange).
Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologicas Herbario, Mexico: 59 plants (345034, exchange).
Estafeta Universidad de Panama, Panama: 4 plants (345027).
E.V.S. Consultants, Ltd. Canada: 1 worm and 1 worm slide (342157).
Exxon Research and Engineering Company: 1 mineral (344778, exchange).
Faculdade de Ciencias Medicas e Biologicas de Botucatu, Brazil: 31 plants (343015).
Fairchild Tropical Garden Herbarium: 48 plants (341412, 341827).
Field Museum of Natural History: 4 meteorites (265332, 342853, exchanges); 244 plants (341854, 345057, 341434, 344539, exchanges); 63 plants (341434, 342403).
Florida Atlantic University: 3 crustaceans (340726).
Florida Department of Natural Resources: 14 crustaceans (342012); 26 echinoderms (337664, 343602); 38 worms (342293).
Florida, University of: 22 echinoderms (343886); 12 moths (346333); 65 crustaceans (341186); 65 plants (343937, exchange); 3 plants (343937, 345092).
Florida State Museum: 82 crustaceans (341350, 342079, 343550, 345661); 34 echinoderms (341350).
Florida State University: 29 crustaceans (344721).
Forest Research Institute, India: 24 wood slides (324342, exchange).
Forschungsinstitut-Natur Museum Senckenberg, West Germany: 3 insect slides (345969).
Free University, Netherlands: 1 mineral (344727).
Fundacao Estadual de Engenharia Do Meio Ambiente, Brazil: 2 plants (341403).
Fundacao Instituto Agronomico do Parana-IApPar, Brazil: 15 plants (341845).
Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica, Brazil: 148 plants (344562, 345552, 345567).
Fundacao Universidade do Rio Grande, Brazil: 44 crustaceans (338530).
Fundacion e Instituto Miguel Lillo, Argentina: 400 plants (342446, exchange).
Geophysical Laboratory: 19 minerals (345833).
Georgia Department of Health, Education and Welfare: 13,357 insects (342849).
Georgia Department of Natural Resources: 11 echinoderms (342082).
Georgia Marble Company: 1 marble sample (346340).
Goteborg, University of, Sweden: 11 worm slides (343885).
Grassland Oil and Water Resources: 12 beetles (344129).
Great Falls, College of: 10 plants (344608).
Grice Marine Biological Laboratory: 24 crustaceans (345206).
Guam, University of, Guam: 10 plants (341878).
Guelph, University of, Canada: 1 echinoderm (344353).
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory: 21 crustaceans (342092, 342650, 342939); Museum: 684 crustaceans (341772).
Hansen Minerals: 17 minerals (342288, 342728, exchanges).
Harvard University: Biological Laboratories: 3 sponges (343406); Farlow Herbarium: 89 plants (345553); Gray Herbarium: 11 plants (343906, 345500); Mineralogical Museum: 2 minerals (343212, exchange); Museum of Comparative Zoology: 3 plants (343494).
Hattori Botanical Museum, Japan: 50 plants (344578, exchange).
Hawaii, University of: 19 crustaceans (341641); 2 plants (343924, exchange); 277 plants (324358, 343920, 341890, 342991); 79 pottery samples (345293). Health, Education and Welfare, U.S. Department of: 513 mammals (344357).
See also Lassa Fever—Multimmate Mouse Project.
Helsinki, University of, Finland: 40 plants (343974, exchange).
Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Brazil: 156 plants (345541).
Herbario Centro de Pesquisas do Cacau, Brazil: 231 plants (341882, 345517).
510 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 521>>>

Herbario de la Universidad de Panama, Panama: 72 plants (344606).
Herbarium Australiense, Australia: 455 plants (341885, 342443, exchanges).
Herbarium of the Northern Territory, Australia: 5 plants (345508).
Herbier du Centre Orstom de Cayenne, French Guiana: 4 plants (345531).
Herbier National du Cameroun, Cameroun: 2 plants (343445).
Heron Island Research Station, Australia: 3 crustaceans (337165, 343706).
Hillman Fund: 2 minerals (343844).
Hiroshima University, Japan: 15 crustaceans (344709, 344078).
Horn Point Environmental Laboratory: 35 crustaceans (341773).
Hubbs Sea World Research Institute: 12 seals (346360).
Humboldt State University Herbarium: 1 plant (345035).
Hungarian Natura! History Museum, Hungary: 8 insects (343600); 20 moths (344881, exchange).
Huntington Botanical Garden: 169 plants (343038, 345483).
Huntsman Marine Laboratory, Canada: 2 crustaceans (333055).
Idaho Department of Health and Welfare: 35 crustaceans (341650, 344771).
Illinois Institute of Natural Resources: 20 insects (342531).
Indiana University: 587 insects (331867, 346363); 10 plants (341433); 10 crustaceans and 13 slides (344284).
Institute for Botanical Exploration: 57 plants (345089).
Institute of Evolutionary Morphology and Ecology of Animals, USSR: 9 crustaceans (342778, exchange).
Institute for Marine Biomedical Research: 2 crustaceans (344639).
Institute of Jamaica Science Museum, Jamaica: 35 plants (345522, exchange).
Institute of Ocean Sciences, Canada: 13 worm slides (343553, 343891).
Institute for Systematic Botany, The Netherlands: 35 plants (342969, exchange); 61 plants (342969, 344617).
Instituto Botanico, Venezuela: 572 plants (341447, 341874, 343008, 343031, 344549, 345026, 345054).
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica, Brazil: 258 plants (342413, 342442).
Instituto de Botanica, Brazil: 13 plants (342968, exchange); 13 plants (343018).
Instituto de Botanica Agricola, Venezuela: 5 plants (343515, 341415).
Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, Argentina: 75 plants (343464).
Instituto de Botanica del Nordeste, Argentina: 17 plants (342414).
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Brazil: 210 plants (344523, exchange).
Interior, U.S. Department of:
Bureau of Land Management: 514 lots of fishes (333929, 337093); 10,342 mollusks (340084); 1,200 fossils (337093), 340084, 342663); 617 worms (342663).
Bureau of Mines: 2 petalites (343216).
Fish and Wildlife Service: 128 crustaceans (316876, 339190, 342349); 1 whale (345782); 1,492 assorted mammals (346358); 1 tortoise, 3 snakes, 229 reptiles and amphibians (344951, 345834, 345937).
Geological Survey: 2 corals (341475); 176 cores, rocks, ores and basalt glasses (342545, 342547, 345984, 346336, 346338); 71 minerals (317572, 342724, 343282, 344385, 344444, 345953); 60 mollusks (343788), 36,092 fossils (341183, 341196, 341328, 341532, 341925, 342579, 342706, 342773, 343232, 343237, 343734, 344177; 344356, 344718, 345005, 345134, 345198, 345225, 345226, 345291, 345397, 345413, 345593, 345611, 345662, 345808, 345809, 345857).
National Fish and Wildlife Laboratories 1,763 birds (346354); 626 plants (341416); 1 turtle, 1 snake, 993 reptiles and amphibians (341273, 341697, 342581, 342775).
National Fisheries Research Center: 32 crustaceans (339839).
National Park Service: 12 lots of human skeletal remains (346321, 346322,
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 511

<<<Page: 522>>>

346323); 20 sea turtles and 1 egg (341471); 1 crustacean (342897). Water and Power Resources Service: 1 piece of fossil wood (345209).
International Potato Center, Peru: 28 plants (345114).
Iowa State University Herbarium: 5 plants (343511, exchange).
Jardim Botanico de Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 42 plants (341891, 345030); 11 plants (345527, exchange).
Jardin Botanique National de Belgique, Belgium: 3 plants (342451).
Kanagawa Horticultural Experimental Station, Japan: 11 insects (342521, exchange).
Kansas Biological Survey: 6 water beetles (342530).
Kansas, University of: 1 fish (343780).
Katholieke Universiteit, The Netherlands: 27 mites (342532).
Kent State University: 5 fossils (345208).
Kentucky, University of: 14 beetles (342527).
Kristalle: (345743). See also Stuart Fund.
Laboratoire de Carcinologie et d’Oceanographie Biologique, France: 18 crustaceans (342202, exchange).
Laboratorio di Tecnologia della Pesca, Italy: 2 crustaceans (337662).
Lamar University: 5 crustaceans (341653).
Lassa Fever—Multimmate Mouse Project: (344357). See also Health, Education and Welfare, U.S. Department of.
Ljubliana, University of, Yugoslavia: 8 crustaceans (335755, exchange).
Longwood Gardens: 2 ferns (328062).
Los Angeles County Natural History Museum: 126 plants (341871, 341829, 342424, 342425, 343447, 344580).
Los Angeles Hall of Justice, Sheriff’s Office: 1 child’s skeleton (343161).
Los Angeles Zoo: 56 mammals (342151).
Louisiana State University Herbarium: 1 plant (345055).
Loyola University: 585 crustaceans (341021).
Lyon Arboretum: 38 plants (341378).
Macquarie University, Australia: 151 worms (342204).
Maine, University of: 11 crustaceans (344006).
Manitoba, University of, Canada: 26 insect slides (344894); 3 plants (345105).
Marie Selby Botanical Garden: 373 plants (314191, 343042, 345518, 345112, 345570).
Marine Ecological Consultants: 19 crustaceans (343787).
Marine Science Institute: 154 worms (300653).
Maryland Office of the Chief Medical Examiner: human skeletal remains (343162, 346325).
Maryland State Police: human skeletal remains (346324).
Maryland, University of: 149 crustaceans (341456).
Miami, University of: 5 echinoderms (344681).
Michigan, University of: 100 crustaceans (338950); 687 insects (343635); 3 plants (343488, 343910); 1 mineral (342252); Herbarium: 57 plants (345020, exchange).
Milwaukee Public Museum: 150 crustaceans (343262).
Mineral Fund: 39 minerals (342378, 342708, 342936, 343337, 344217, 344514, 344729, 344730, 344980).
Mineral Kingdom of Woodmere: 9 minerals (342130, exchange); 3 minerals (342935).
Minnesota Science Museum: 9 mollusks (344004).
Mississippi State University: 43 plants (343440).
Missouri Botanical Garden: 461 plants (341826, 342990, 344565, exchanges); 1,885 plants (337752, 341819, 341826, 341842, 342430, 342436, 342440, 342473, 342495, 342970, 342990, 343014, 343476, 343507, 343901, 344541, 344565, 345025, 345036, 345091); Herbarium: 5 plants (343489).
Missouri, University of: 24 plants (343455).
512 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 523>>>

Musee d’Histoire National ‘“G. Antipe,” Romania: 17 insects (344895).
Museo de Historia Natural Herbario San Marcos, Peru: 84 plants (341823).
Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, Costa Rica: 14 plants (336679, 343012, 345577).
Museo Nacional do Historia Natural, Uruguay: 25 worms (345889).
Museo Paraense “Emilio Goeldi,” Brazil: 32 plants (341856, 345070, 345079).
Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 90 plants (341888, 343913, 344613).
Museu Nacional, Brazil: 1 crustacean (337908).
Museul Deltei Dunarii, Romania: 1 fly (342190, exchange).
Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, France: 1 bird skin (343616, exchange) ; 290 plants (344569, 344535, exchanges).
National Academy of Sciences: 2 cores (345985).
National Geographic Society: 38,993 insects (344903).
National Herbarium, Botanical Research Institute, South Africa: 8 plants (343441, 342426).
National Herbarium, Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia: 59 plants (342465, exchange).
National Museum, New Zealand: 2 echinoderms (343798).
National Museum of Natural Sciences, Canada: 60 plants (344521, exchange).
National Museum of Victoria, Australia: 3 crustaceans (344158); 1 bird skeleton (345176, exchange).
National Museums of Canada, Canada: 5 crustaceans (341714); 4 crustaceans (344272), exchange).
National Science Foundation: 1 core and 1 lithologic log and log analysis (345986).
National Science Museum, Japan: 2 minerals (345832, exchange).
Naturhisorisches Museum, Switzerland: 32 fossils (345197).
Naturhistorisches Museum Wien, Australia: 100 plants (342965, exchange).
Nebraska, University of: 29 crustaceans (341806, 342802).
New Brunswick, University of, Canada: 4 echinoderms (342582); 28 worms (345964).
New Mexico, University of: 2 meteorites (281357, exchange); 1 fossil (342578).
New York Botanical Garden: 2,660 plants (341446, 341881, 342410, 343010, 343048, 343492, 344567, 345032, 345525, exchanges) ; 799 plants (341441, 341913, 342431, 343425, 345058, 345059, 345099, 345142, 341435).
New Zealand Oceanographic Institute, New Zealand: 69 fossils (343653); 5 fossils (344178, exchange).
North Czarolina Department of Natural Resources and Community Development: 1 echinoderm (342083).
North Carolina State College: 63 plants (341364).
North Carolina State Museum: 2 insects (342528).
North Carolina State University: 2 crustaceans (343293).
North Carolina, University of: 50 sponge slides (339281); 67 plants (341907); 11 crustaceans (341563, 342914).
Northern Iowa, University of: 279 crustaceans (341647).
Occidental College: 4 ferns (342406).
Office De La Recherche Scientifique Technique Outre-Mer, France: 276 plants (343007, 343990, 344542, 345110).
Ohio State University: 68 plants (344585, 342987); 23 mollusks (343240, 343230).
Oklahoma, University of: 1 sponge (341567).
Oklahoma Baptist University: 1 crayfish (343191).
Oregon State University: 2 echinoderms (333215); 3 insects (343367); 3 worms (344520).
Pala Properties International: 82 minerals (341965, 342074, 342721, 343290, 344207, 345844) ; 3 minerals (343845); 2 rhodonite plates, 3 desk implements, 1 carved compote, 1 carved fruit group on a slate base (341993, exchange).
Parma, University of, Italy: 1 meteorite (342856).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 513

<<<Page: 524>>>

Paul and Beekman, Inc.: 19 insects, 30 crustaceans (339072).
Pennsylvania, University of: 12 fossils (342938).
Philadelphia Academy of Sciences: 2 minerals (342002, exchange).
Philippines, University of: 2 echinoderms (342235); 10 bats (345195).
Pomona College: 5 crustacean slides (325409).
Pontificia University Catolica De Chile, Chile: 1 worm (345227).
Port Harcourt, University of, Nigeria: 235 crustaceans (341654, 342577, 345205); 11 echinoderms (339762, 341700); 20 worms (341654).
Purdue University: 5 mayflies (344430).
Queensland Herbariun, Australia: 105 plants (344536, exchange).
Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Australia: mites (344419).
Queensland, University of, Australia: 8 echinoderm slides (343064); 13 crustaceans (344351).
Radford University: 3 crustaceans (344141).
Rama de Botanica, Mexico: 85 plants (341380, exchange).
Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden: 217 plants (343942, exchange).
Rhode Island, University of: 2 minerals (342003).
Rhodes University, South Africa: 1 mineral (342934); 4 fishes (343757).
Rijksherbarium, The Netherlands: 250 plants (344563, exchange); 3 plants (345097).
Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, The Netherlands: 14 crustaceans (339693, 344794, exchanges); 13 insects (344856).
Roebling Fund: 227 minerals (337504, 342668, 342911, 342933, 343126, 343145, 343147, 343383, 343785, 343848, 344977, 344981, 344988, 345269).
Royal Botanic Gardens, England: 823 plants (342479, 343049, 344540, 345075, 345144, exchanges) ; Herbarium: 190 plants (341373, exchange).
Royal Botanic Garden, Scotland: 5 plants (344560).
Royal Ontario Museum, Canada: 15 fossil fragments and slides (345885).
Ryukyus, University of, Japan: 27 mosquitoes (342837); 2 echinoderms (345588).
Saint Joseph College, India: 64 plants (341410).
San Diego Museum of Natural History: 4 plants (341847, exchange).
San Diego Zoological Gardens: 4 mammals (341746).
San Francisco, University of: 39 crustaceans (263464).
Santa Barbara Museum of Natural History: 4 echinoderms (345681).
Sea Fisheries Institute, South Africa: 1 dolphin (344806, exchange).
Shillong, University of, India: 3 crustaceans (339150).
Six Flags Great Adventure: 1 tiger (346027).
Skidaway Institute of Oceanography: 7 wet sponges (341566).
South African Museum, South Africa: 8 crustaceans (343292).
South Alabama, University of: 4 fishes (339678).
South Australian Museum, Australia: 12 birds (343094, exchange).
South Carolina Marine Resources Research Institute: 7 crustaceans (338532); 8 echinoderms, 1 fish, 2 mollusks, 1 worm (339880).
South Florida, University of: 27 plants (344605).
Southeastern Oklahoma State University: 221 plants (343918, exchange).
Southern Arkansas University: 1,731 crustaceans (338620, 340240).
Southern California, University of: 11 crustaceans (328274); 52 crustaceans, 200 mollusks, 1,296 worms (340919); Allan Hancock Foundation: 85 crustaceans (341562, 342835); 1 worm (343227); 6 echinoderms (344082).
Southern Illinois University: 701 crustaceans (341561, 343255).
Southwest Missouri State College: 10 plants (343448).
S.S. and W. Investment Company: 1 mineral (343326).
State University of Moscow, USSR.; 13 plants (343899).
State University of New York: 2 minerals (343781).
514 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 525>>>

Station Marine D’Endoume et Centre D’Oceanographie, France: 2 crustaceans (341458); 407 fossils (343654).
Stuart Fund: 49 minerals (342691, 343794, 343846, 343847, 344084, 344086, 344087, 344171, 344290, 344643, 345412, 345665, 345743).
Swedish Museum of Natural History, Sweden: 475 plants (343980, exchange).
Tatsuo Tanaka Memorial Biological Station, Japan: 9 crustaceans, 1 fish (342347).
Technishe Universitat Braunschweig, West Germany: 1 mineral (343314).
Tennessee, University of: 30 plants (341381, 344609, 345078); 67 plants (342407, exchange) ; 657 crustaceans (340979, 344140).
TerEco Corporation: 50 shrimps (345201); 76 worms (345817).
Texas A&M University: 2,028 crustaceans (340916, 341780, 344080); 5 plants (343021).
Texas Instruments: 34 crustaceans (332037).
Texas, University of: 187 plants (343927, 343931, 343947, 345098); 41 plants (345098, exchange); 5 crustaceans (341923, 343687); 8 worms (344837); Herbarium: 47 plants (341377, 345098, exchanges).
Time-Life, Incorporated: 9 drawings and 4 paintings by Jay Matternes (345738).
Tiroler Landeskindliches Museum, Austria: 1,184 insects (344886).
Tokyo, University of, Japan: 131 plants (344611, exchange).
Toronto, University of, Canada: 140 plants (341436, exchange).
Transvaal Museum, South Africa: 4 moths (345422, exchange).
Tulane University: 22 crustaceans (344270, 344516); 1 echinoderm (345469).
Tufts University: 80 plants (340133, exchange).
Universidad Austral de Chile, Chile: 4 frogs (341629, exchange).
Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra, Dominican Republic: 1 plant (337710).
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Venezuela: 56 plants (345502); 30 mollusks (343238).
Universidad de Los Andes, Venezuela: 118 plants (343033, 344526, 345096, 345526).
Universidad Interamericana de Puerto Rico: 4 crustaceans (343380).
Universidad Mayor De San Andres, Bolivia: 352 plants (343430, 345052, 345074).
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Mexico: 1 plant (341376); 27 plants (341900, exchange).
Universidad Nacional de Cuyo, Argentina: 17 frogs (343699, exchange).
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Colombia: 27 plants (343917, exchange) ; 1 plant (343917).
Universidad Nacional del Nordeste, Argentina: 36 plants (343016); 143 plants (343016, exchange).
Universidad Nacional Experimental de los Llanos Occidentales, Venezuela: 4 ferns (341382).
Universidade de Brasilia, Brazil: 39 plants (341406, exchange): 47 plants (341406).
Universidade De Sado Paulo, Brazil: 12 crustaceans (344640, exchange); 35 reptiles and amphibians (342645, 344950, exchanges).
Universita Degli Studi di Firenze, Italy: 7 minerals (344728).
Universita di Bologna, Italy: 1 meteorite (340486, exchange).
Universite De Dijon, France: 1 crustacean (334575).
Universite Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium: 2 crustaceans (329838).
Universite Pierre et Marie Curie, France: 1 mineral (344165).
University College, Ireland: 1 worm (341712).
University Museum, England: 1 insect (345932).
University of the South: 4 crustacean slides (341655).
Upper Canada Minerals, Canada: 5 minerals (343801, exchange).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 515

<<<Page: 526>>>

Virginia Institute of Marine Science: 792 crustaceans, 10 mollusks (341920); 629 echinoderms, 51 worms (344508); (340084). See also Interior, U.S. Department of.
Virginia Office of the Chief Medical Examiner: skeletal remains (346326).
Virginia Polytechnic Institute: 3 plants (345087, 345573).
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University; 16 insects (342522, 342529); 8 worm slides (344167).
Virginia State Library: 305 human skeletons, 100 cultural items. (345733).
Waikiki Aquarium: 2 fishes (342178).
Washington, University of: 1,667 crustaceans (340509).
Western Australian Museum, Australia: 1 crustacean (342818).
Western Ontario, University of, Canada: 3 minerals (342255, 345224).
West Florida, University of: 25 crustaceans (327379).
William and Mary College: 1 fossil finback (345818).
Windsor, University of, Canada: 8 crustacean slides (342602).
Wisconsin, University of: 100 crustaceans (343707); 9 plants (337741); 50 plants (343013, 343968, exchanges).
Wittenberg, University of: 122 crustaceans (329521).
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution: 513 crustaceans (335612, 336918); 111 echinoderms (339246, 341249); 51 worms (343374).
Wyoming, University of: 13 plants (341899).
Yakima Valley Disposal, Incorporated: 1 tephra sample (340674).
Yale University: 8 birds (339349).
Zale Corporation: 1 opal (342256).
Zoological Institute, Sweden: 4 echinoderm slides (342898).
Zoologisches Institut und Museum der Universitat, Germany: 1 worm (345887).
Zoologisches Institut, Universitat, Germany: 332 rove beetles (345983, exchange). See also Ulrich Irmler.
Zoologisk Instituut, Norway: 3 worms (331012).
Zoologisk Museum, Denmark: 5 crustaceans (326307); 30 mollusks (300323); 115 worms (330454); 2 insects (343700, exchanges).
Edward Aaron: 21 minerals (343531).
Marjorie Abbott: 2 daggers and a sword (343156).
Joseph Alhadeff: 16 gems (338674).
John Hamilton Allan: 3 inscribed cuneiform tablets (343166).
Thomas E. Allen: 2 tektites (342851).
Omar M. Amin: 5 worm slides (343571).
G. E. Anderson: 6 crustaceans (343549).
Anonymous: 1 diamond and pearl “Owl” brooch (342100); 1 fossil slab (344750).
Arnfried Antonius: 1 echnioderm (343404).
Ronald L. Arbogast: 1 fossile bone (344172).
Robert Aronheim: 26 butterflies (345978).
Ted G. Arrowood: 7 minerals (345447).
Darrell R. Ashley: 1 fossil walrus bone (345453).
Eric Asselborn: 17 minerals (345966).
B. D. Auchard: 120 minerals (343298).
Harry M. Axman, 1 fossil (343256).
Ethel Bachelder: 37 minerals (343203).
Pranab Bagchi: 1 cut gem (343325).
Dave Baggett: 56 moths (342539).
Donnie Bailey: 32 fossils (341811, 342631, 342635, 343287, 344219).
516 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 527>>>

Richard H. Bailey: 13 fossils (342774).
H. Randy Baker: 2 worms (342323).
Norma Brandt Bakke: 2 minerals (340439).
George E. Ball: 9 beetles (342515).
Pam Balogh: 109 plants (345038).
Carlos Do Prado Barbosa: 2 minerals (345449).
Georges Bargibant: 200 echinoderms (340617).
Pierre Bariand: 1 opal (343127); 3 minerals (345331, exchange).
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Barlow: 10 piece set of solid gold items embellished with diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and pieac (338685).
Roger C. Barnett: 4 minerals (341533, 342008, 345350).
Wolfgang Bartelke: 5 minerals (343820, exchange).
John Bates: 500 mollusks (343756).
John Baum: 2 minerals (342254).
Robert C. Bechtel: 8 bees (344428).
David W. Behrens: 4 mollusks (342228).
Charles Bellamy: 31 seed beetles (345970); 12 wood-boring beetles (345970, exchange).
L. N. Belova: 1 mineral (344997).
Barney E. Berlinger, Sr.: 1 brown bear (346356).
Mrs. Howard B. Berman: 8 cut gems (343413).
Roberto Bertolani: 1 worm slide (341981).
Ramona J. Beshear: 3 lace bugs (343626).
Wes Bicha: 76 flies (343719, exchange).
Jeffrey Bickart: 2 birds (345314).
David Bickel: 8 fossils (345470).
Barbara Bickelhaupt: 1 fossil seal (346028).
Richard A. Bideaux: 1 mineral (342727).
Arthur G. H. Bing: 1 cut gem (343260).
Alastair Birtles: 2 echinoderms (343197).
Theodore L. Bissell: 4 insect slides (343181).
Doris H. Blake (Deceased): 12 stuffed and mounted turtles (342304).
Andre Blanchard: 788 insects, 206 slides (343642).
C. Blaszak: 2 mites (344122).
D. A. Boag: 100 mollusks (342106, 342102).
Robert F. Bolland: 49 worms, 50 mollusks, 15 echinoderms, 238 crustaceans (341664).
Doreen Bolnick: 85 ethnological items (343165).
Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. Bonsanti: 4 cut gems (343323).
Mrs. Hollis O. Boone: 263 mollusks (283663, 344711).
Carl Bosch, Jr.: 1 pearl and diamond ring, 3 platinum crucibles (334480).
Richard Bostwick: 4 minerals (345826).
Roland Bostwick: 2 minerals (342085).
H. Bougault: 32 glassy basalts (342548).
William Bradley: 2 fossil seal bones (342632).
Edward Brady: 3 Indian police badges (343151).
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Braiman: 2 cut gems (343415).
Twila Bratcher: 4 mollusks (344798).
George Brewer: 38 minerals (341966, 343124, 343818, 344986, exchanges); (343383). (See also Roebling Fund.)
Cheryl Bright: 5 worms (341490).
Robert W. Brink: 1 blue topaz (343386).
A. E. Brower: 5,890 insects (344896); 1 sparrow (344910).
Clair A. Brown: 675 fossils (345004).
Helmut Bruckner: 2 minerals (345829).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 517

<<<Page: 528>>>

Howard Bruder, 3 cut beryls (343303).
William C. Brumbach: 357 plants (315770, 319381, 321511, 341893, 345143).
Arline Buehler and Dean Buehler: 1 fossil (343807).
L. V. Bulgak: 1 mineral (344445).
Mrs. John Q. Burch and Rose L. Burch: 2,234 mollusks (342041).
Thomas A. Burch and Beatrice L. Burch: 280 mollusks (341198).
E. A. J. Burke: 1 mineral (345828, exchange).
John M. Burns: 1,381 butterflies (343641).
Allen L. Burr: 1 blue topaz (343261).
Roy J. Burroughs: a fossil seal pelvis (344174).
Dr. and Mrs. Roy Burroughs: a fossil seal pelvis (342653).
Percy L. Byrd: 1 bird (346003).
J. M. Cadiou: 53 moths (343093, exchange).
Mrs. J. M. Cairns: 4 fossils (306071, exchange).
Samuel M. Call: 10 mollusks (341559).
Joan R. Callahan: 4 squirrels (345780).
George H. Capps: 2 carved ivory camels with diamonds, sapphires, rubies and emeralds mounted on teak wood trimmed with diamonds (338775).
Stephen Cardinal: 1 cut gem (343334).
John L. Carr: 14 weevils (346016).
Eric T. Carter: 1 black widow spider (344130).
Mont A. Cazier: 79 flies (344422).
Walter O. Cernohorsky: 2 mollusks (343559).
Steve Chambers: 100 mollusks (345135).
Ralph Chamness: 3 fossils (342705).
George Chao: 2 minerals (344987).
R. H. Chappell: 5 Asian items (343164).
Anthony S. Cheke: 2 reptiles and amphibians (342078).
John Chemask: 2 insects (345150).
Paul J. Cheung: 2 echinoderm slides (345468).
Mrs. C. A. Child: 20 land snails (344005).
Robert C. C. Chiu: 28 minerals (342726).
Demosthenes P. Choporis: 4 crustaceans (345001).
J. Christiaens: 9 mollusks (345766).
Kenneth Christiansen: 34 insects (344888).
Carl Christianson: 6 mice (345194).
Ben Chromy: 2 minerals (344288).
John Cianciulli: 18 minerals (341946, 345223, 345819).
Sharon Cisneros: 3 minerals (336958).
Clarence F. Clark: 79 crustaceans (336859).
Arthur H. Clarke: 60 mollusks (344194).
J. F. Gates Clarke: 616 insects (343628, 345305).
William J. Clench: 900 mollusks (344196).
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Condon: 1 fossil (342704).
Lawrence Conklin: 1 mineral (345352).
Reginal W. F. Conway: 4 cut gems (343259).
Leroy F. Cooley: 2 cut gems (343333).
G. A. Cooper: 400 fossils (342154).
John E. Cooper and Martha R. Cooper: 3,500 crustaceans (293515).
Herb Corbett: 2 minerals (345952).
Cecil Cosse: 5 minerals (345222).
C. Cotton: 2 tekites (342852).
Bruce C. Coull: 25 worms (344921).
C. V. Covell: 472 insects (343644).
M. E. Cowan: 2 echinoderms (343797).
518 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 529>>>

Mrs. William C. Crane: 1 star sapphire set in a pendant with diamonds (343324).
Julian A. Cranfill: 5 minerals (344978).
Roger Cressey: 1 lizard (344949).
Jarrett Cross: 9,955 beetles (344427).
Stephen J. Culver: 72 fossils (343319).
Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham: 1 emerald and diamond pendant set in platinum (343414).
Rock Currier: 1 mineral (345448).
Hosny M. Aboul Dahab: 7 mollusks (342303).
Hawthorne Daniel: 5 items of Sioux Indian clothing (343158).
Julian T. Darlington: 1 worm, 7 slides (344384).
Hieronim Dastych: 234 worms, 28 slides, 71 eggs (345406).
Ken Davenport: 4 butterflies (344117).
Irving Davidson: 1 Irian mounted trophy skull (343157).
Donna Davis: 402 insects, 11 mollusks (341998).
John C. Dawes and Carroll J. Sumner: 1 jade (344680).
Fernando G. Dayrit: 25 mollusks (342043).
Charles DeBoer: 9 gems (338637, 345270).
Dr. and Mrs. Robert W. Decker: 6 drill-hole lava samples (346348).
Eliezer De C. Rios: 1 mollusk (341558).
John C. Deeming: 585 insects (342516, 344417, 344900).
Otto Degener: 14 plants (343893).
Otto and Isa Degener: 19 plants (345024).
T. E. DeLaca: 11 fossils (342803).
Maria Concepcion R. De la Cruz: 263 crustaceans (333583).
John R. De Laeter: 1 meteorite (342855).
Giovanni Dellacassa: 220 plants (342058, 345152, exchanges).
James J. De Palma and Marie V. De Palma: 1 cut gem (343294).
Mark Deyrup: 55 beetles (345300).
Aaron M. Diamond: 12 minerals (345355).
A. Dietz: 1 cut gem (344823, exchange).
Eugene V. Dillon: 1 fossil (342507).
Erich Dimroth: 22 precanbrian pollows and hyaloclastites (345998, exchange).
Alain Dinet: 14 worms and slides (343373, 344220).
C. Kenneth Dodd: 17 reptiles and amphibians (341744).
John Doleman: 1 mineral (343201).
Richard E. Dowds: 3 crustaceans (339060).
John C. Downey: 1 butterfly (343168).
L. Michael Druckenbrod: 21,423 insects (343638).
A. M. Duccan: 5 lava samples (345994).
David W. Dugas: 14 crustaceans (343649).
William A. Dunson: 3 hatchling turtles (341803).
James M. DuPont: 1 meteorite (342350, exchange); 1 gold specimen (342761).
J. Thomas Dutro: 6 minerals (343213).
Mr. and Mrs. Dan W. Eagle: 1 ash sample (342544).
S. Boyd Eaton, Jr., and W. C. Lang, Jr.: 1 blue topaz (343534).
Maria Economou: 3 minerals (344713).
Dr. and Mrs. George F. Edmunds, Jr.: 5,016 insects and arthropods, 3 crustaceans (343193).
L. G. Eldredge: 90 mollusks (345767).
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Ellingson: 1 section of an orbicular granite boulder (342859).
Peter Embrey: 1 mineral (345963).
K. C. Emerson: 523 insect slides (344436).
Robert K. Enders: 130 mammals (337097).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 519

<<<Page: 530>>>

Haruo Endo: 50 mollusks (342103).
Dodge Engleman: 1 stink bug (344119).
Charles Entenmann: 48 gemstones (343329).
Bernd-D. Erdtmann: 24 fossil slabs (342236).
Chester Erseus: 1 worm, 9 slides (341980, 345160).
Kim H. Esbensen: 1 coronite sample (345996).
Clifford Evans and Betty Evans: 1 Brazilian mask (345736).
Audrey Faden: 1 plant (345509).
Kristian Fauchald: 57 worms (344199).
Lawrence H. Feldman: 3 mollusks (343196).
Bill Fink: 7 fossils (344175).
Debra Fischer: 1 fossil (344749).
Mrs. Carol M. Flint: 46 insects (343632).
Oliver S. Flint, Jr.: 30 butterflies (343172).
Hans Jurgen Flugel: 1 worm (344952).
Robert L. Folk: 9 Jurassic radiolarites samples (345995).
George C. Fonger: 50 fossils (345456).
Ralph Fout (Deceased): human skeletal remains (346320).
Carl Francis: 1 mineral (344984).
John C. Franclemont: 3,146 moths (343630).
Charles E. Freed: 1 mineral (343235).
Amnon Freidberg: 1 hornets nest (342533); 11,766 insects and arthropods (343182).
Robert C. Frey: 14 fossils (341812).
Antonio M. Frias Martins: 1 mollusk (344710).
Kenneth E. Frick: 1 butterfly (344116).
Robert Fujimura: 20 crustaceans (339764).
Tomoo Fujioka: 53 butterflies (342525, exchange); 6 insects (345977).
Florence M. Fullerton: 3 Cheyenne beaded items (345737).
Yoshiaki Furumi: 1 beetle (342845, exchange).
Sayed Abdulla Abdel Gabbar: 4 mammals (345881).
Richard Gaines: 1 mineral (345827).
Wayne K. Gall: 2 crustaceans (341791).
Sergio Gallo: 14 minerals (345148, exchange).
Frank A. Garcia: 1 fossil walrus tusk (345454).
S. L. Gardiner: 15 worms (341652).
James E. Gardner: 1 crustacean (344285).
Torgeir T. Garmo: 21 minerals (344375, exchange).
Cecil B. Garrett (Deceased): 113 mammals (337651).
John W. Garris: 1 fossil seal (342634).
R. A. Gault: 5 minerals (345332, exchange).
Piet Gelaude: 1 mineral (343184).
Patricia Gensel: 3 fossils (341997).
Robert Y. George: 1 crustacean (345762).
Arthur Gerk: 3,000 fossils (341813).
Sebastian Gerlach: 11 worm slides (342603).
Mrs. Raye N. Germon: 51 mollusks (344510, 343194).
Ewald Gerstmann: 6 minerals (342001).
Ray Gibson: 3 worms (343656).
Martha Ann Gilchrist: 1 diamond pomegranate (340738, exchange).
James E. Gillaspy: 5 fishflies (346331).
James P. Gills: 33 minerals (343390).
George L. Godfrey: 7 moths (342523).
Don Goeken: 15 minerals (337966).
Robert H. Gore: 2 shrimps (345360).
Edward J. Gorny: 7 gems (343411).
520 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 531>>>

Stephen Grabe: 7 crustaceans (342711).
Susan Gray: 22 mollusks (342077).
Trevor H. Green: 2 petrology samples (345987).
Ruth Greenberg: 6 mollusks (345440).
Dr. and Mrs. Marshall Greenman: 1 cut gem (343302).
Edward S. Grew: 7 minerals (341976).
James B. Gross: 7 crustaceans (266594).
Lloyd F. Gunther: 2 fossils (342289).
Ashley B. Gurney: 72 insects (343180).
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Gutlohn: 1 topaz (342937).
William H. Hale: 55 fossils (345140).
Mrs. Evelyn Annenberg Hall: 1 sapphire and diamond necklace, 36 sapphires, 435 diamonds (343391).
Jack C. Hall: 840 insects (343629).
Valdimir Hanak: 16 bats (241333).
Gunnar Heluig Hansen: 1 mineral (342690); 6 minerals (343827, exchange).
Vanburen H. Hansford: 1 cut gem (342725).
James Hardiman: 2 butterflies (342840).
Alan Hardy: 2 insects (345303).
David Hardy: 33 crustaceans (342776).
D. Elmo Hardy: 210 insects (343174, 345299).
Chris Harmatuk: 2 fossil seals (341809).
Peter Harmatuk: 600 fossils (342629, 344696, 346043).
Harold Harry: 25 mollusks (343804).
Max E. Hartl: 1 cut gem (343391).
David J. Hasinger and Barney E. Berlinger, Sr.: 1 squirrel (345883).
Henry W. Haslam: 1 mineral (344163).
Peter Hattenschwilder: 21 moths (345307).
Richard Hauck: 7 minerals (342664).
Mis. Marion E. Havlik: 50 mollusks (343623).
Bray O. Hawk: 1 necklace of pear shaped gems set in gold (343346).
Bruce W. Hayward: 4 fossils (342652).
John S. Hayward: 2 cut gems (343296).
Robert B. Hayward and Elizabeth A. Hayward: 1 mineral (343200).
Lita Annenberg Hazen: 2 diamond necklaces set in platinum, 1 diamond and ruby bracelet set in platinum (334522).
Richard W. Heard: 10 crustaceans (345193).
Mr. and Mrs. Harvard K. Hecker: 3 cut gems (343193).
Stephen Blair Hedges: 424 reptiles and amphibians (327159).
Phillip C. Heemstra: 14 fishes (342187).
Ernst Heiss: 12 flat bugs (343825, exchange).
F. Michael Heller: 2 plants (343468).
R. F. Heming: 10 lava samples (345993).
Edward P. Henderson, Jr.: 1 mineral (343082).
William A. Henderson, Jr.: 4 minerals (345830).
Thomas J. Henry: 10 insects (342536).
Harry John Herbert: 4 ceramic sherds (345296).
Gary Herbst: 89 crustaceans (331080).
Henry A. Hespenheide: 9 weevils (34426, exchange); 2 beetles (344893).
David F. Hess: 2 butterflies (342843).
Geoffrey R. F. Hicks: 50 worms (344723).
Dr. and Mrs. Ronald T. Hill: 1 pair of topaz and diamond earrings (342913).
William S. Hlavin: 23 fossils (343573).
Richard Hoare: 400 fossils (345929).
Robert C. Hoerle: 650 mollusks (341565).
Richard L. Hoffman: 45 reptiles and amphibians (332946).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 521

<<<Page: 532>>>

D. D. Hogarth: 2 lapis samples (345342).
James R. Hood: 69 mollusks (266445).
L. Scott Hoopes: 1 carved-ivory tower (345949).
Peter R. Hoover: 1,881 fossils (343403).
H. Pearson Hooper: 78 sawflies and ants (344884).
Clifford A. Hopson: 10 lava samples (342546).
Robert J. Horodyski: 31 fossils (342324).
Roland Houart: 2 mollusks (342017).
Barbara Hovanitz: 201 moths (342541).
Kim M. Howell: 1 African squirrel (345129). |
Chien Yeh Hu: 1 cut gem (343342).
Francis M. Hueber: 1 silver specimen (344289).
Jane E. Huffman: 43 mollusks (346140).
P. Wagenaar Hummelinck: 350 mollusks (340237).
John A. Hyatt: 2 butterflies (344424).
W. R. B. Hynd: 6 insects (343179).
Ulrich Irmler: 2 insects (345983). See also Zoologisches Institut, Universitat.
Ernie Iverson: 2 crustaceans (333860).
Michael Ivie: 6 insects (345980).
Olav R. T. Janse: 37 stone beads and amulets (343163).
Daniel H. Janzen: 6,466 insects (343640).
Craig Jarvis: 1 fossil (342153).
Robert Jaxel: 1 mineral (342034).
Norma and Robert Jaxel: 1 mineral (344162).
John F. Jedlicka: 1 volcanic bomb (345349).
D. G. Jenkins: 3 fossils (345196).
Martha L. Jenkins: 1 three-piece Chinese costume (343149).
Jose de Js. Jimenez A.: 7 plants (345574).
J. G. Johnson: 35 fossils (343622).
Ladd I. Johnson, Estate of: 120 Indonesian and African ethnological items (345292).
Roy Johnson, jr.: 167 centipedes (344418).
Thomas L. Johnson: 130 mollusks (338319).
Alice W. Jorg: 12 Ute Indian items (343152).
Peter A. Jumars: 26 worms (342759).
Walter Kahn: 31 minerals (345950, exchange).
Virginia Kettering Kampf: 1 nephrite perfume vial, 1 quartz ruby and diamond pin, 2 gold cosmetic cases, 1 sapphire and diamond ring, 1 French 50franc gold-coin watch (342873).
Kenkichi Kanmiya: 39 flies (344265, exchange).
Paul B. Kannowski: 2 lace bugs, (344434).
Rokuro Kano: 57 insects (344127); 2 insects (344127, exchange).
Akira Kato: 15 minerals (341978, 343760).
Erle Kauffman: 2 minerals (342035).
James Kaufman: 6 minerals (342010).
David H. Kavanaugh: 1 weevil (346057).
Kenji Kawaoka and Suzanne P. Clark: 1 cut gem (343331).
E. Alison Kay: 102 mollusks (344075).
Lance E. Kearns: 4 minerals (342000).
Donald M. Kellar, Jr.: 1 mineral (345948).
Gerta Keller: 9 fossils (342651).
Paul Keller: 6 minerals (341992, exchange); 3 minerals (344292).
Robert W. Kelley: 2 insects (344744).
Chris Kenney: 1 fossil seal femur (342508).
Brett Kent: 1 mollusk (343195).
522 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 533>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Kerckhoff: 3 cut gems (343335).
Charles L. Key: 4 mollusks (341222); 8 minerals (342666).
Robert M. King: 56 plants (341838).
Vandall King: 5 minerals (342005, 344716).
Ralph F. Kirchner: 173 insects (344885, 345167).
Donald J. Klemm: 1 leech (342742).
James E. Klijanowicz: 1 cut gem (341258).
Dr. and Mrs. Richard J. Kloecker: 10 cut gems (333726); 1 carved zoisite and ruby parrot, 1 pair of carved amethyst herons, 1 pair of carved agate grebes (343412).
William F. Klose II: 13 fossils (345006).
Kenneth Knight: 34 mollusks (342196).
John Kolic: 39 minerals (342760, 343784, 344291, 344983).
Boris Kondratieff: 3 mayflies (345975).
Bronislawa Korczynska-Oszacka: 1 mineral (345843).
Jacques Kornprobst: 17 petrology and volcanology samples (342860).
Richard A. Kosnar: 4 minerals (345445).
Rusty Kothovala: (342936). See also Mineral Fund.
Mr. and Mrs. William Kramer: 3 minerals (340732).
N. L. H. Krauss: 6 plants (342456); 4,544 insects (343643, 344902, 345739).
Reinhardt M. Kristensen: 9 worms (341983, 344724).
Carl Krotki: 3 cut gems (343297).
Benjy Kuehling: 10 minerals (343257).
Barry S. Kues: 1 fossil (343574).
Jeanne C. Kwasney: 5 fossils (345133).
James L. Lamb: 5 fossils (344641).
Lewis K. Land: 2 minerals (343338).
Gary N. Lane: 1 album containing 9 photos of the Kansas City crinoid collections (344726).
Meredith Lane: 35 plants (341889).
Harold F. Langworthy: 1 cut gem (343123).
David Larence: 30 insects (344899).
Hiram Larew: 5 moths (342518).
Alf Olav Larsen: 9 minerals (343793).
James W. LeDuc, Lynn W. Robbins, and Ralph E. Vaden: 51 insects (281430).
Harry E. Lennon: 11 cut gems (338634).
Stanley L. Leventhal: 1 cut gem (343327).
Mrs. Hanna Le Wars: 1 fossil shark tooth (344176).
David L. Lewis: 4 gold specimens (334776).
Thomas Lewis: 1 mineral (343341).
M. A. Lieftinck: 1 bee (344423).
Mrs. Sheng-Hwa Lin Chow: 4 moths (343169).
John J. Linskie, Family of: 1 Mexican Amazon parrot (344135).
E. G. Linsley: 273 flies (343171).
Jerold B. Lisson: 1 mineral, 2 cut gems (342910, 342376).
Elbert L. Little, Jr.: 675 plants and trees (343004, 343477).
John Ljubenkov: 5 echinoderms (341646).
William Lohman and C. Howard Ellis: 9 fossils (345683).
Charlene D. Long: 10 worms (341995).
Alan Longbottom: 6 mollusks (342247).
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord: 10 minerals (343416).
Arthur Loveridge: 16 insects (338408).
Peter Loveland: 2 minerals (343345).
Charles O. Lowe: 2 minerals and 7 topazes (343385).
Jack Lowell: 62 minerals (343792).
F. S. Lukoschus: 1 centipede, 43 slides (342537, 345742, 345973).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 523

<<<Page: 534>>>

Hal McClure: 51 fossils (343375).
Marion McDowell: 12 mollusks (344993, 345925); 12 echinoderms (345925); 2 mammals (346361).
Eileen McEwan: 37 insects (344123).
Craig McFarland: 161 crustaceans (325640).
Cecilia McGhee: 3 insects (343177).
Ron McGinley: 1 insect (345673).
W. W. McGuire: 10 butterflies (342841).
George C. McIntosh: 37 fossils (343572).
Tom McIntyre: 1 bird (346353).
Nancy J. Maciolek: 1 crustacean (341808) ; 30 worms (344441).
William P. MacKay: 18 ants (344120).
Jack H. McLellan: 37 fossils (345317).
F. Stearns MacNeil: 526 mollusks (344752).
Mr. and Mrs. Sandy A. Mactaggart: 2 mollusks (342942).
H. D. Maher: 1 fossil (343376).
Irina M. Maldonado: 2 minerals (343758).
J. Maldonado Capriles: 3,534 insects (342848, 344415, 344883, 345169).
Mr. and Mrs. Les J. Malone: 12 cut gems (343387).
Marvin D. Mangus: 3 ivory figurines (345294).
Mr. and Mrs. Roger H. Marble: 2 minerals (342009).
Alvin C. Martin, Michael Fourticqg, and Edward J. Fourticq: 1 blue topaz (343535).
Norman T. Martin: 15 minerals (343289, exchange).
Robert L. Martin: 5 mammals (344354).
Dante E. Marinelli and Ida Marinelli: 1 jade urn (343336).
John C. Markham: 5 crustaceans (343803).
Ludwig Masch: 3 petrology and volcanology specimens (345992).
Ed Mastro: 52 mollusks (345955).
Edward Materne: 1 crocodile skull (340370).
Bryant Mather: 19 insects (344115, 344433); 1 insect (344414, exchange).
Wayne N. Mathis: 3,342 flies (343637).
Gerald M. Maynes: 7 mammal skulls (345781).
James Mead: 14 reptiles and amphibian skeletons (342176).
Heinz Meixner: 4 petrology and volcanology specimens (346335).
Chuck Messing: 5 echinoderms (344170).
Artie L. Metcalf: 23 mollusks (341505, 345765).
Eric H. Metzler: 7 moths (345463).
Peter Meyer: 14 basalt samples (346346).
Harding B. Michel: 7 worms (340435).
W. Micherdizinski: 6 insects (344416).
Gerald P. Mihok: 1 cut gem (343759).
Ann Miller: 31 fossils (344697).
Charles N. Miller, Jr.: 57 fossil slides, 3 fossil slices (343685).
James F. Miller: 42 fossils (343551).
Scott E. Miller: 939 insects (343183).
Walter B. Miller: 4 mollusks (344076, 344861).
Joseph C. Mitchell: 41 worms (341745).
Harold N. Moldenke: 2 plants (343438, exchange).
Mrs. Maier Moody: 1 mineral (343083).
Colin G. Moore: 25 worms (343318).
Letha N. Mordak: 5 fossil seal bones (342505).
Gilda Morigi: 1 cut stone (344996).
Mary S. Morris: 1 diamond ring, 2 diamond baguettes set in platinum (342511).
Walter H. Mosmann: 1 cut gem (343322).
William B. Muchmore: 174 insects (342540, 344121).
524 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 535>>>

Russell E. Mumford: 1 spotted bat (345882).
R. Muniappau: 2 worms (343657).
Mr. and Mrs. Roy A. Myers: 1 blue topaz (342912).
Steven Myers: 1 snake (342772).
Joe Nagel: 1 mineral (344985).
K. Nahamura: 10 crustaceans (343242).
P. H. Nixon: 1 mineral (345824).
W. Nutting: 55 beetles (342192).
Herbert Obodda: 1 mineral (343122).
Lois B. O’Brien: 51 insects (343175).
Brendan O’Connor: 1 worm (342799).
Baldomero M. Olivera: 1 mollusk (341221).
David Olson: 28 insects (343178).
William O’Neal, Jr.: 2 fossil seal teeth (346042).
Hilda O’Neil and Jeff O’Neil: 2 fossil seal bones (342506).
William Leslie Overal: 34 weevils (342609).
Werner H. Paar: 3 minerals (343615, exchange).
Adolf Pabst: 3 minerals (341977).
Mrs. Gardner Palmer: 1 silver pendant, 1 pair of earrings (343148).
Marlene Palmer: 2 insects (344128).
Larry Pancoast: 1 prehistoric stone disc (343150).
Warren T. Parker: 1 mollusk (342104).
John L. Parnau: 2:minerals (344446).
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 12 pieces of Canadian Eskimo Soapstone sculpture (343625).
Donald Peacor: 7 minerals (342036).
David L. Pearson: 6 tiger beetles (344118).
Michael Pehachek: 7 fossil birds (342504).
Paul J. Peltier: 3 cut gems (343410).
Norman D. Penny: 5 slide insects (345276).
Linda H. Pequagnat: 10 fossils (345581, exchange).
Robert H. Perry: 135 insects (345971).
W. R. Persons: 1 opal (342377).
Emile A. Pessagno, Jr.: 94 fossils (344245).
Gary Peters: 17 insects (344889).
Mary E. Petersen: 14 worms (341982).
Steven R. Peterson: 1 duck skin (346000).
Edward Petuch: 5 mollusks (345139).
A. R. Philpotts: 2 basalt samples (342858).
Walter Pickut: 1 mineral (345348).
Sid Pieters: 38 minerals (341979, 344164).
Felix Pifano C.: 1 rice rat (342729).
George Pigeon: 2 minerals (341945).
William W. Pinch: 7 minerals (344642).
Stephen R. Piper: 26 worms, 45 slides, 8 vials (342365, 342831).
Sarah B. Pipkin (Deceased): 2,741 flies (346334).
Riccardo Pittino: 84 insects (343517, exchange).
Donald J. Pletsch: 1 toad (342305).
R. Plotkin: 2 mollusks (344303).
Michael Pogue: 5 moths (345968).
John T. Polhemus: 105 insects (344429).
Joff Pollon and Jonathan S. Pollon: 1 opal peacock (343849).
Robert W. Poole: 2,248 moths (342836).
Leroy Poorman: 5 mollusks (343556, 344800).
Marjorie Merriweather Post, Estate of: 386 ethnological items from various localities (318782).
Gregory K. Pregill: 9 reptiles and amphibians (342941).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 525

<<<Page: 536>>>

J. Wayne Prentice: 1 bird (344137, exchange).
Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Putterman: 1 cut gem (343300).
William F. Pyburn: 9 frogs (342709).
James F. Quinn, Jr.: 9 mollusks (340443).
Teresa Radziejewska: 110 worms (345142).
Russell A. Rahn: 1,486 insects (342517, 343167, 345301, 345967, 346332). A. A. Rasch: 4 cut gems (338753, 340268).
Anthony Raw: 43 bees (343170).
Judy Raynor: 1 fossil bird bone (342896).
M. L. Reaka: 39 crustaceans (335879).
James Reddell: 2 bugs (344879).
D. V. Reed: 1 meteorite (342543).
John E. Reeder: 1 petrology and volcanology sample (346345). Steve M. Reilly: 2 salamanders (341643).
Dietmar Reinsch: 5 matabasites (345990).
Jeanne Renaud-Mornant: 20 worms, 13 slides (341984). Patricia V. Rich: 380 fossil bird bones (345457).
Norm Riker: 2 fossils (341810).
Mary L. Ripley: 2 frogs, 1 lizard, 1 worm (344440).
S. Dillon Ripley: 1 bird, 1 owl feather (343154, 345312). Donald C. Rhoads: 700 mollusks (345207).
Lynn W. Robbins: (See also Le Duc, James W.; 82 insects (344892). Hubert Roeser: 24 petrology and volcanology samples (345988). Martin J. Roess: 31 cut gems (338614).
Paul S. Rogell: 9 glass cat’s eye stones (344442, 344770). Mary Pickford Rogers, Estate of: 1 star sapphire (343125). Romita Family: 1 cut gem (343408).
J. Perran Ross: 8 sea turtle skeletons (340614).
L. M. Roth: 5 cockroaches (345979).
William H. Rowe: 463 insects (343639).
Wayne A. Rowley: 1,116 insect slides (345972).
Neal Rulien: 8 beetles (346329).
Bruce Runnegar: 2 petrology and volcanology samples (345989). David J. Russel: 9 crustaceans (345385).
Kenneth Russell: 4 mollusks (344448).
Loren Russell: 2 beetles (342519).
Curtis W. Sabrosky: 425 flies (344420).
Richard D. Sage: 1 house mouse (343655).
Yasuji Saito: 1 mineral (344402, exchange).
Frank P. Sala: 2,850 moths (342218).
Finn Sander: 1 mollusk (342203).
German Castro Sarmiento: 4 mollusks (343806).
Louis F. Saviano: 1 cut gem (342004).
Mortimer H. Saslaw: 108 minerals (338405).
John M. Saul: 67 minerals (341990, exchange).
Fritz Schiemer: 3 echnioderms (344054).
Frederick C. Schlauch: 22 water snakes (343648).
Ernest Schlicter: 2 minerals (345951).
Vincent P. Schneider: 23 fossils (342338, 342633, 345455). Vincent P. Schneider and Judy Raynor: 26 fossils (341936, 341937, 345316). Detmar Schnitker: 9 fossils (344383).
C. H. Scholtz: 11 beetles (342534).
Richard Schooner: 3 minerals (344509).
Ed. Schrader: 3 petrology and volcanology samples (345999). W. Schreyer: 3 granulite samples (346337).
Randy Scott: 3 fossils (346044).
526 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 537>>>

Yale Sedman: 2 butterflies (342839).
Michael E. Seidel: 5 turtles (344007).
E. H. Sellards: 1 fossil shark egg case (345768).
Raymond D. Semlitsch: 4 worms (340587).
Annette Seymour: 2 fossils (342630).
Irving A. Shepard: 1 cut gem (343382).
William N. Shirey: 2 turtle skeletons (335997).
John F. Shisko: 7 worms (344923).
J. W. Short: 6 ferns (342471).
William E. Sieker: 3 moths (344901).
Robert M. Sigurdsen: 1 cut gem (343761).
Raul Sousa Silva: 12 mollusks (343799).
Geddes W. Simpson: 2 insect slides (344906).
Sidney Singer, Jr.: 24 minerals (344621).
Dr. and Mrs. V. P. Singh: 1 carved-beryl Indian (343202).
Arthur E. Smith: 9 minerals (343214).
Clyde F. Smith: 14 insect slides (342520).
Ronald P. Smith: 1 beryl (343529).
Kathleen R. Smythe: 5 mollusks (342229, 343241).
Martin A. Snyder: 4 mollusks (345954).
Scott W. Snyder: 62 fossils (341924).
Annelle Soponis: 1 insect (342538).
Theodore F. Spall and Theodore Spall, Jr.: 1 blue topaz (338945).
Brice W. Springer: 1 polished sphere with a pedestal (345132).
M. S. Srinivasan: 5 fossils (345666).
H. A. Stalder: 1 mineral (344773, exchange).
Jon D. Standing: 8 crustaceans (341045).
Frances G. Stehli: 82 fossils (342155).
N. C. N. Stephenson: 1 granite sample (346341).
Robert Stern: 29 volcanic rocks (342857).
Thomas W. Stern: 2 quartz spheres with carved teak-wood bases (345446).
Henry M. Stevenson: 10 nighthawks (345315).
Kurt Stimpson: 2 worms (344160).
Bruce L. Stinchcomb: 15 fossils, 1 cast (344667).
Carl W. Stock: 31 fossils (346447).
Craig S. Stolburg: 3 minerals (344360, exchange).
Gary M. Stonedahl and John D. Lattin: 759 insects (344432).
Leo F. Stornelli: 1 garnet, 1 blue topaz (338403).
Henry L. G. Stroyan: 4 insect slides (343176).
Robert J. Studders: 1 blue topaz (343530).
Robert Suarez: 1 fossil walrus tusk (344211).
Ken Sulak: 155 echinoderms (341920).
Ester Sullivan: 1 mounted golden eagle (344439).
William D. Sumlin III: 1,890 insects (344897).
Walter R. Suter: 798 beetles (343173).
Robert Svecz: 4 minerals (342011, 342253).
Roy Swain: 5 crustaceans (337826).
Mr. and Mrs. Rollin Swanson: 2 tephra samples (346350).
Dr. and Mrs. Bernard T. Swaykus: 1 pendant with yellow sapphires set with diamonds in gold mounting (343343).
Clyde Swindell: 81 fossils (342152, 344173, 346045).
Dr. and Mrs. Yen T. Tan: 1 cut gem (343344).
J. C. Tanguy: 11 lava samples (343647).
Ralph W. Taylor: 526 insects (342018, 343627).
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Taxson: 8 mollusks (346068).
Leon Termin: 20 minerals (343782).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 527

<<<Page: 538>>>

Daniel A. Taxtoris: 7 petrology and volcanology samples (345991).
Donald B. Thomas: 51 stink bugs (343636, 344131).
James D. Thomas: 1 crustacean (343254).
Peter R. Thompson: 5 fossils (343246).
R. T. Thompson: 2 insects (343134).
Richard W. Thomssen: 3 minerals, 1 topaz (343234, 344979).
R. W. Timm: 109 worm slides (305205).
R. H. J. Tompkins: 13 bird eggs (344136).
Robert Traub: 624 fleas (344132).
Rodolfo Trevino: 1 meteorite (337951, exchange).
Claude Triboulet: 16 petrology and volcanology samples (343185).
Charles A. Triplehorn: 25 insects (346015).
Robert G. Tuck, Jr.: 6 mammals (345130).
George Turcott: 1 fossil (344836).
Robert H. Turnbow, Jr.: 3 insects (344898).
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner: 1 jadeite bead necklace, 1 oval bowl, 1 ring bangle, 1 carving of a boy, 1 nephrite bead necklace, 4 carved stylized fungi, 1 carved urn, 1 Persian turquoise ring in white gold with diamonds and sapphires (343258).
Ruth D. Turner: 683 worms (342380).
Leonard D. Tuthill: 10,550 insects (345297).
Joan M. Uebelaker: 5 worms (342066).
Donald Wayne Umstead: 1 fossil walrus skull (342654).
J. R. Underwood, Jr.: 1 meteorite (342850).
Karl Valley: 1 moth (346330).
W. Van den Hoven: 36 bird skeletons (334727, 329057, 335967, 337785, 342748, 345911, exchanges).
Mr. Van Der Voorn: 3 cut gems (343295).
John D. Van Itallie: 9 minerals (344216).
C. Vargas C.: 34 plants (253264).
Mr. and Mrs. Earl Varns: 5 fossils (345706).
Rafael Vasquez-Montoya: 3 mollusks (341560).
Eric R. Veigel: 1 blue topaz (343301).
Adolfo Villalon: 17 cut gems (338770).
Emily H. Vokes: 2 mollusks, 10 fossils (343795).
Jurgen F. Von Raumer: 1 mineral (345825).
Kurt Walenta: 2 minerals (344714).
Francis S. Walker: 76 minerals (343328).
J. W. Walker: 6 insects (342846).
J. B. Wallace: 26 caddisflies (342524).
Jerry G. Walls: 1 mollusk (342197).
Martha H. Wanner: 4,499 archeological specimens (345732).
David Warburton: 3 beryl specimens (343407).
Linda A. Ward: 31 worms (343733).
Anders Waren: 3 echinoderms (343577); 15 mollusks (343731, 344815).
Thelma Warshaw: 1 cut gem (343299).
Richard Weires: 72 moths (344435, 346328).
Herbert Weiskopf: 1 mineral (345349).
Gerald Weiss: 2 frogs (341506).
Floyd G. Werner: 897 leaf beetles (345976).
John S. Weske: 24 bird skins and skeletons (344133).
Mary Jane West-Eberhard: 4 wasps (344125).
Mrs. Alexander Wetmore: 2 Panamanian metates, 1 mano (343155).
A. J. Wheeler, Jr.: 25 plant bugs (342844).
Alfred P. Wheeler: 14 mollusks (342014).
528 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 539>>>

Donald Whitehead: 28 beetles (345982).
Thomas E. Whiteley: 37 fossils (343231, 345471).
Kent M. Wiedemann: 28 ethnological items (336357).
Ronald S. Weilgus: 168 insects (342838, 343633, 345740, 345981). Thomas A. Wiewandt: 17 echinoderms (326154).
Mrs. Bruce F. Williams: 19 strings of glass, stone, and metal beads (343153). Hollis B. Williams: 66 flies (344437).
J. G. Williams: 20 petrology and volcanology samples (345997). T. Donald Wilson: 134 carats of corundum (345347).
Ross Witham: 2 sea turtles (339548).
John Wood: 8 ferns (341849).
Robert E. Woodruff: 2 beetles (344880).
Kirk Woods-Denkler: 2 fossils (344698).
M. J. Wort: 2 minerals (342037).
Eugenia I. Wright: 2,500 mollusks (337324).
John V. Wright: 5 petrology and volcanology samples (346347). Jill Yager: 1 crustacean (344874).
Thomas E. Yancey: 40 fossils (345141).
Isaac Yaron: 7 mollusks (341353).
K. Yasumatsu: 2 insects (345741).
Eric Yensen: 2 insects (342842).
Chester L. Yntema: 66 alligators and sea turtles (341271). Allen M. Young: 3 bugs (344124).
Frank N. Young: 555 beetles (345306).
Jack R. Young: 1 mineral (344443).
James Phillip Young: 1 blue topaz (343532).
Victor Yount: 4 minerals (342610, 343783).
Miloslav Zacharda: 20 insects (344431).
Helmut Zibrowius: 5 crustaceans, 2 fossils, 4 worms (343199). James R. Zimmerman: 173 beetles (317598).
Bill Zinesmeister: 22 echinoderms (345807).
Nick Zipco: 3 minerals (345353).
Michael Zolensky: 2 minerals (341548, exchange).
Donors of Financial Support
Donations in memory of Ms. Dana Lee Horseman: Mr. and Mrs. Emmitt G. Allen Mr. and Mrs. Gary E. Hansen Mr. and Mrs. Jay Benham Mr. and Mrs. Michael C. McMahon Employees, Vinton, Virginia, branch, Mr. and Mrs. George D. Naleppa, Jr. First and Merchants National Bank = Mr. and Mrs. B. G. Semones Mr. and Mrs. Lary J. Fitzgerald Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Taylor Mr. and Mrs. William E. Hammond, Jr. YMCA King’s Landing Camp Donations in memory of Frederick Y. Robertson:
Mr. and Mrs. R. P. Boers
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald E. Briggs Mary Park Clements
Vivan Cobb
Florence Fultz
Mr. and Mrs. Howard H. Hackley Mr. and Mrs. Howard Hallman Mr. and Mrs. David B. Hexter Mr. and Mrs. William D. Johnston Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Kelleher Catherine S. Kine
Velma Sutton Kisevalten Mrs. Edward McElaney Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. McGrath Mr. and Mrs. George W. Mitchell Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Noel Phillip S. Rinaldo, Jr. Staff (Liquidation Office) of Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., San Juan, Puerto Rico Mrs. Benjamin W. Wasser
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 529

<<<Page: 540>>>

Robert B. Davis
Bela J. Demeter
Vincent J. Doyle
Edwin Gould
Mr. and Mrs. Torrence H. MacDonald Richard Montali
Grants
Friends of the National Zoo* National Fish and Wildlife Association National Geographic Society
HISTORY AND ART ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART Donors of Financial Support $10,000 AND ABOVE
The Brown Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Walter Buhl Ford
The Adolph’s Foundation Viola F. Bray Charitable Trust California Arts Council
The Mark Rothko Foundation
Anonymous
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Bielfield The Bothin Helping Fund
Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce The Bundy Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton Ted Cooper
Susan L. Cullman
Mr. and Mrs. F. Arnold Daum John de Menil
Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz Mrs. George R. Fink
Edwin Firestone
Benson and Edith Ford Fund Mr. and Mrs. William C. Ford Dr. and Mrs. Henry Foster
Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goldberg Lucy Reed Hibberd
Oveta Culp Hobby
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Kahn Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane Irvin A. Levy
Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Lipman
Michael J. Morgan Miles S. Roberts Albert Strawinsky Etta L. Wanger Christen Wemmer William A. Xanten
National Institutes of Health National Science Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manoogian
Nancy B. Negley
Sid W. Richardson Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro A. Alfred Taubman
Mr. and Mrs. B. John Mackin
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller Mr. and Mrs. Harris Masterson Mr. and Mrs. Walter Maynard
Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed Rev. and Mrs. Van S. Merle-Smith Mrs. William L. Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Hall James Peterson Mr. and Mrs. Gifford Phillips Polaroid Foundation
Mrs. Ednah Root
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Sharf Mr. and Mrs. Howard Smits
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Louise Talbot Trigg
J; La irotter
Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust Claire A. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. C. Bagley Wright
* These funds were earned by the Friends of the National Zoo according to their provision of public service under contract to the Smithsonian Institution.
530 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 541>>>

Anonymous
Mrs. William Bassett
Mr. Sewell C. Biggs
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Bloom Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen Mrs. Bertram D. Coleman
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Jay Deutch Mr. and Mrs. Max M. Fisher Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Fleishchman Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Fraad Helena Fraser
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Fried
Mr. and Mrs. Abner Goldstone Mr. and Mrs. Melville W. Hall Armand Hammer
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn Mrs. Henry C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Winslow Jones Mr. and Mrs. John L. Jones Julianne Kemper
Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Landsman William A. Lange
Little Gallery
A.C.A. Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Hale R. Allen
Mr. Arthur G. Altschul
The American Scandinavian Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Ames
Mr. and Mrs. J. Denton Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Wendell W. Anderson, Jr.
Anschutz Corporation
George Arden
Flora C. Atherton
Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Augerson
R. Stanton Avery
Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Baker
Mr. and Mrs. Henry De Forest Baldwin
W. N. Banks
Mr. and Mrs. Will Barnet
Mrs. Harold A. Beatty
Mr. and Mrs. Bernhard G. Bechhoefer
Mrs. James A. Beresford
Mr. and Mrs. Philip I. Berman
Louisa C. Biddle
Anna H. Bing
Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Bixby
Shirley Black
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Bortz
Mrs. Eugene McDermott Elizabeth H. Maddux
Mrs. Edwin Meredith
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam Mrs. Vaughan B. Meyer
Muriel C. Newman
Mrs. Shirley Polykoff
Dorothy H. Rautbord
Mr. and Mrs. John V. Renchard Mrs. William L. Richards
Sally Richardson Ricker
Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley Mrs. John D. Rockefeller III Mrs. William F. Rosenblum Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal, Jr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.
Mrs. Irving D. Saltztein
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert B. Silverman Mary-Leigh Smart
Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier Mrs. Nelson Urban
Mr. and Mrs. William Wallstein Mrs. Rudolph W. Weitz
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Bostick Mr. and Mrs. R. Wallace Bowman Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley Dr. and Mrs. William J. Briggs Herbert B. Brill
Earl Brotherton
Mr. and Mrs. David R. C. Brown Herbert Brownell
Helen Busch
Chapellier Galleries
David Chapman
Mr. and Mrs. Martin F. Citrin Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Clark Mr. and Mrs. Ralph L. Cohen Mrs. Andrew Cole
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin Janet H. Coors
Mrs. William G. Costin, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Warren J. Coville Mrs. Aviva Covitz
Gardner Cowles
Roberta P. Crenshaw
Dr. and Mrs. Burrill B. Crohn Ruth Cumming
Mrs. Chester Dale
Elaine Dannheisser
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Danziger Mrs. Ralph Davies
Mrs. Keith Davis
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 531

<<<Page: 542>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis Elizabeth De Cuevas
Gladys Krieble Delmas
Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe Mr. and Mrs. Martin Diamond C. Douglas Dillon
Mrs. Herbert D. Doan
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Doerer Paul M. Dorman
James F. Duffy, Jr.
Lawrence F. Du Mouchelle
Mr. and Mrs. Saul H. Dunitz Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dyer Mrs. Allen D. Emil
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur D. Emil Mr. and Mrs. George M. Endicott Jimmy/Dallas Ernst
Mr. and Mrs. Alex Etkin
Hilda Ettenheimer
Ex Libris
Mr. and Mrs. Irving X. Fabrikant Fairweather-Hardin Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Burton D. Farbman Mrs. W. Rodman Fay
Mr. and Mrs. Porter Fearey
Mrs. Alvin M. Ferst, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Finger
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Fisher Audrey Flack
Mrs. Mortimer Fleishacker, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fraad
Mrs. Stanley Frank
Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Frankel
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall M. Fredericks
Eleanor K. Freed
Mrs. A. J. Freiler
Mrs. John S. French
Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Friedman Sheldon Fuller
Elizabeth H. Fuller
Mr. and Mrs. William Genymatas Ann G. Getty
Howard Gilman
Sylvia Gilman
Mrs. Bernard F. Gimbel
Mr. and Mrs. Seth M. Glickenhaus Mrs. Aron S. Gordon
Stuart Gorelick
Eugene P. Gorman
Mr. and Mrs. Alan L. Gornick
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Graber Charles M. Grace
Mrs. Faye Green
532 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Frank J. Greene Melba Davis Greenlee
Cynthia Groobey
Daniel B. Grossman
Mr. and Mrs. Lester K. Gruber Mrs. F. V. Grunbaum
Mrs. Samuel Hamburger
Mr. and Mrs. R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Joseph Hardy
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton
Mrs. J. W. Hershey
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Hirsch
Mrs. George C. Hixon
Mark Hoffman
Augusta Hoiles
William J. Hokin
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay Grace Garden Hooker
Margaret Pomeroy Hoover
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Horn II Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hoving Mrs. J. Stewart Hudson
Frederick G. L. Huetwell
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings
Mr. and Mrs. James Humphry III Mrs. Robert E. Hunter, Jr.
E. Hank Hurst
Milka Iconomoff
Flora M. Irving
Jane H. Ivancovich
Manfred Jachmich
Mr. and Mrs. David Jacknow
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr. Ruth Carter Johnson
Virginia Kettering Kampf
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan Richard L. Kaplin
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Karpel Maxwell E. Katzen
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufman Mr. and Mrs. Martin A. Kellman David Woods Kemper Memorial Foundation
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.
Mrs. Robert L. Kemper
Mr. William T. Kemper
Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall Kennedy Galleries
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Kestenbaum Mrs. David L. Klein
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip Klein
Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Koenigsberg Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod Mr. and Mrs. Nat Korash

<<<Page: 543>>>

Peter Kriendler
Mrs. Roger M. Kyes
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Lang
Jack H. Larman
Mrs. Rodney M. Layton
Rensselaer W. Lee
Sandra Leff
Dr. and Mrs. Irving H. Leopold
Janice H. Levin
Mrs. Leonard Levine
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Karl A. Limbach
Sonia Lindblad
Mrs. Albert A. List
Mr. and Mrs. Carl D. Lobell
Mrs. Renee Logan
Meredith Long
Mr. and Mrs. Harold O. Love
Madeleine M. Low
T. Melvis Lowrance
Earle Ludgin
Harry H. Lunn, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes
Mrs. Leslie M. McAllister
Porter A. McCray
Mr. and Mrs. John Mack
John P. McGrath
James T. McKay
Margaret D. McKee
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Mrs. Fleur Manning
Mrs. Edward Marcus
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Marcus
Marcus Krakow Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin S. Marks
Marlborough Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Tom F. Marsh
Mr. and Mrs. Edgar M. Masinter
Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Maveety
Maxwell Galleries
Mr. and Mrs. Louis K. Meisel
Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Meltzer
Paul and Laura Mesaros
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Department of American Painting and Sculpture
Dr. and Mrs. Matthew S. Mickienicz
W. G. Mierkiewicz
Barbara B. Millhouse
Elizabeth M. Mitchell
Modesto Lanzone
Dr. and Mrs. Coleman Mopper
M. Peter Morris
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Mullan
William L. Mullen
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond D. Nasher George F. Neiley
Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Netsch Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger Annalee G. Newman
John C. Nicholls, Jr.
Dorothy Norman
Nancy M. O’Boyle
Mrs. Henry O’Neil
Edward H. Osgood
The Pace Gallery
Dr. and Mrs. David B. Pall Elizabeth B. Parkinson
Mrs. Henry Pearlman
Mr. and Mrs. S. Barksdale Penick, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Petrie John B. Pierce, Jr.
Mrs. H. Lynn Pierson
Mr. and Mrs. Saul Poliak
Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky William Postar
Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Radom Mr. and Mrs. Albert B. Ratner Mrs. Milton D. Ratner
Ann K. Rawley
Mrs. Dana Raymond
Mrs. Michael M. Rea
Raphael Recanati
Lowell Ressler
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Richardson Dr. and Mrs. Harold Rifkin Mrs. Andrew C. Ritchie
Mrs. Maurice Ritz
Robert Miller Gallery
Robert Schoelkopf Gallery Sylvia Robins
Mr. and Mrs. Allen L. Robinson Mr. and Mrs. David Rockefeller David Rockefeller, Jr.
Alvin S. Romansky
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rose Richard M. Ross
Mrs. Joseph Rubin
Madeleine H. Russell
Ivan C. Schatten
Ann McGovern Scheiner Marlene Schiff
Mr. and Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain Mr. Allan B. Schmier
Arlene Schnitzer
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas A. Schubot Mrs. Samuel Schwartz
Mr. and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz Sarita Seid
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 533

<<<Page: 544>>>

Melvin R. Seiden
Steven A. Seiden
Mrs. Carl L. Seldon
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Shalom Mr. and Mrs. Alger Shelden Mrs. Allan Shelden III
Robert Silver
Stephen Sloan
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Slocum Mrs. Lawrence M. C. Smith
Mrs. Stephen Stern
Mrs. Jay Sternberg
Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens Mr. and Mrs. Stanford C. Stoddard Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Straus Mrs. John W. Stroh
Emanuel Sulkes
Susanne Hilberry Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Susman Mrs. Henry W. Suydam, Jr.
Mrs. Robert M. Taubman
Mr. and Mrs. David A. Teichman E. V. Thaw
Paul Thiry
Louis Tishman
Mrs. William C. Tost
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend Mr. and Mrs. Raymond S. Troubh Mrs. Hooper Truettner
Helen S. Tucker
Mrs. Maurice Tumarkin
Mrs. Joseph A. Vance, Jr. Gilbert Verbit
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM Donors of Financial Support
Anonymous
Helen W. Buckner
Carnegie Corporation of New York The Ford Foundation
Graham Foundation
William Randolph Hearst Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Heinz II
Bernard Aronson Foundation, Inc.
Book-of-the-Month Club, Inc.
The Bristol-Myers Fund
Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.
Coach Leatherware
The Conde Nast Publications, Inc.
Consolidated Edison Company of New York
534 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Mr. and Mrs. Esteban Vincente
Al Virzi
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Vortriede Barbara G. Walbridge
C. Carter Walker, Jr.
Mrs. Hudson D. Walker
Suzanne Walker
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. M. Warburg Mrs. W. C. Ward
Washburn Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman Helene Wasserman
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Waterman III Mr. F. Carrington Weems
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein Marcia S. Weisman
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Wertz
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer Mrs. Frances J. Whitney
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Wille
Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Williams
Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson
James L. Winokur
Margret Craver Withers
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence J. Woodard Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward Mr. and Mrs. Leroy H. Wulfmeier III Mr. and Mrs. William J. Young, Jr. Mrs. Guri L. Zeckendorf
Margaret B. Zorach
Howard Zuker
Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust Karen Henrietta Johnson
Karen Johnson Keland
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation New York State Council on the Arts Arthur Ross
Priscilla Cunningham
Phyllis Dearborn-Masser Estate of Irene Emery
The Garden Club of America Howard Gilman
The E. F. Hauserman Company Johnson & Higgins
Frederick R. Koch

<<<Page: 545>>>

Albert Kunstader Family Foundation Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.
Lee/Jofa, Inc. Isabel Shults
Mrs. Jack Linsky Celia Siegel
The Helen R. and Harold C. Mayer Skidmore, Owings, & Merrill Foundation, Inc. Sotheby’s
Mobil Oil Corporation Stavropoulos Corporation
Philip Morris Corporation Sterling Silversmiths Guild of America
Museums Collaborative, Inc. Wallcovering Information Bureau, Inc.
The Ohrstrom Foundation Ralph J. Weiler Foundation
I. M. Pei & Partners Lawrence A. Wien Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Steven J. Ross The Xerox Corporation
Becker & Becker, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Claus Von Bulow/ Anne S. Dayton New York Community Trust Elizabeth R. McIntosh
Gifts of Objects and Donors to the Collection
A total of 1,174 objects were given to the Museum by 65 donors during the period October 1, 1980, to September 31, 1981. Among the most important were:
An eighteenth-century French bureau plat, a gift of Mrs. Howard J. Sachs and Mr. Peter B. Sachs, in memory of Miss Edith L. Sachs.
A glass vase by artist Michael Pavlik, United States, 1980, a gift of Ms. Bette Alexander.
A silver salver by Dorothy Grant, London, 1677, a gift of the James Smithson Society.
A pair of William and Mary silver plates, dated 1691, London, a gift of Eric Shrubsole.
A collection of Scandinavian silver, glass, and ceramics of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark, twentieth century, a gift of Mrs. Jefferson Patterson.
A research archive of drawings and photographs of the work of Eugenio Quarti and Mario Quarti, Italy, late nineteenth to early twentieth century, a gift of Mrs. Marie Louise Wanner-Quarti.
Eight designs for a greenhouse executed from the 1930s to the 1960s, a gift of Marion Netter.
An album of illustrations of Harold Sterner’s summer home on Long Island, a gift of Mrs. Harold Sterner.
Two drawings by Hugh Ferris, The Metropolis at Night and Steel, a gift of Jean Ferris Leich.
Rare books, Robert and James Adam, The Works in Architecture, three volumes, 1773-1822, a gift of the James Smithson Society.
Indian (Kashmir) shawls, a bequest of Dorothy Franklin Rolph.
A set of sixty-eight blocks for printing fabric, a gift of the John Lewis Partnership, Ltd.
Fifty-six souvenir scarves and handkerchiefs, a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Simeon Brauguin.
Two lengths of wallpaper, “Chopped Herringbone” and “Lifesavers,” a gift of Alan Buchsbaum.
A wallpaper sample, “Supergraphics,” a gift of Perceptive Concepts.
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 535

<<<Page: 546>>>

A wallpaper panel, “Garden Court,” a gift of John Elmo. Thirty-seven Art Nouveau wallpaper samples, a gift of Dr. Francis Geck.
Donors of Financial Support
American Arabian Oil Company
Mr. Franz Bader (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)
Ms. Esther Bloch (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)
Mr. Willard G. Clark
Hagop Kevorkian Fund
League of Arab States
National Committee to Honor the Fourteenth Centennial of Islam Mr. John S. Thacher (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)
Donors to the Freer Collection
Mr. John M. Crawford, New York, New York.
Mr. Robert T. Curran, Washington, D.C.
Estate of Edith Ehrman
Corliss and Randolph Harris, Washington, D.C.
Mr. and Mrs. Province Henry, McLean, Virginia
James Smithson Society, Washington, D.C.
Mrs. Elsie I. Kronenburg, Alexandria, Virginia
Mr. Gregory Kruglak, Arlington, Virginia
Ms. Fleta Kuhns, Covina, California
Dr. Jerry Oslinker, Covina, California
The Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott, Washington, D.C. General and Mrs. Albert A. C. Wedemeyer, Boyds, Maryland Mr. Wei-san Yu, Fairfax, Virginia
Donors to the Study Collection
Mr. Alfred Bodian, Washington, D.C.
Mrs. Winfield Butsch, Buffalo, New York
Mrs. Earl Gauger, Alexandria, Virginia
Mr. and Mrs. Province Henry, McLean, Virginia
Mrs. Araxi B. Kobrin, Bethesda, Maryland
Ms. Gail Marinelli, McLean, Virginia
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson, Washington, D.C.
Mr. Richard Pearson, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut Ms. Ellen Smart, Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Maryland
Mr. Joseph Upton, Pawlet, Vermont
Donors to the Library
Dr. Rhea Blue
Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Mr. Christian Hohenlohe
General and Mrs. Albert A. C. Wedemeyer
Donors of Financial Support
George and Frances Armour Jack Kaufman Foundation Marvin Korengold
Edward R. Downe, Jr. Penn Lupovich, M.D.
Ernst and Company Washington Art League
536 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 547>>>

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Mr. and Mrs. John Barnum Nathaly Baum
Merry Bean
Joan Bedini
Alice R. Bindeman
Lucy W. Blanton
Margaret Blee
William V. Broe
Lenora Burstein
Mary Casey
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Cash Mr. and Mrs. Paul W. Daisey Bette Dauda
Leonard and Eleanor Davidov Wendy Davidov
Sonya Dunie
Lynn A. Fondahn
Nadine Fourt
Gertrude Friedman
Dr. and Mrs. David Goldenberg Mr. and Mrs. Martin Greenspan Mr. and Mrs. Donald P. Gregg Joclare Holmes
Ann P. Jacoby
J. A. Joseph
Lynne Kauffman
Joan Kirsch
Maria Kreilkamp
Isabel Langsdorf
Daniel Lanier
Dorothy Lapadula
Victoria S. Lautman
Donors to the Collections
Anonymous
Mr. and Mrs. David K. Anderson
Rudy Ayoroa
Fernando Botero
Frederick Childs
Joseph M. Erdelac
Jacques Fischer
Mr. and Mrs. Howard M. Friedenberg
Joseph H. Hirshhorn
The Joseph H. Hirshhorn Foundation and Lily Harmon
Harry Kahn
Edward P. Lawson
Alice Lawry
Blanche R. Levenberg
Mrs. H. Lipowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Monderer Tilly Muller
Shirley Olman
Patricia R. Olson
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Pew Ha Qui Phu
Mary Sue Pletcher
Vivian Pollock
Jennie Prensky
Elsie Pyles
June Rigamonti
Marion L. Ring
Madeleine Ritzenberg
Harold I. and Jane C. Rodman Loretta Rosenthal
Irene Schiffman
Jacob and Sandra Schwalb Sally Seidman
Muriel Sirken
Irmelle Small
Betty Sterling
Ruth G. Taylor
Dr. and Mrs. Sheldon Tromberg Marilyn Tublin
Virginia H. Turman
Adelia Calloway Wheeler Charlotte Zaret
Knoll International
Dorothy Miller
Cynthia Polski
Smithsonian Institution Museum Shops
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Raphael and Rebecca Soyer
Mr. and Mrs. Hyman Weitzen
Edwin Weis]
Emily Wilson
Donors of Financial Support
African American Studies Center, University of Maryland, Baltimore George L. Aguirre
American Forum for International Study
Mr. and Mrs. David Anderson
Dorothy May Anderson
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 537

<<<Page: 548>>>

David Apter
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Atkinson
Helen Blackburn
Col. and Mrs. Standish Brooks
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred E. Bryan
C & P Telephone Co.
Hon. and Mrs. Chester C. Carter
Mr. and Mrs. Stoney Cooks
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Cornely
Dr. and Mrs. Robert Elkin
Exxon Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Fink
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Fleming
John Forry
Mr. and Mrs. Marc Franklin
Mr. and Mrs. Carl M. Freeman
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Friede
Embassy of the Gabonese Republic
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Gerstin
Mr. and Mrs. Ben Gilbert
Mr. and Mrs. William Gilmartin
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Glen
Goldberg/Marchesano & Associates, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Mackenzie Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. Eliot Halperin
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes
E. D. Harrison and Lisa Wanderman
S. I. Hayakawa
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn
Donors to the Collection
Joseph Agostinelli
Robert Asman
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Barton Bernard Davis
William B. Easley
James Farber
Robert Farr
Alan M. Gilstein
James and Shirley Gordon Leo and Paul Granoff Samuel J. Hamrick
Bryce Holcombe
Geoffrey Holder
Sol and Lillian Koffler Laurence Korwin
David Leven
Bella and Leonard Linden Mr. and Mrs. Perry Linder
Grace and Edwin E. Hokin Foundation
International Minerals and Chemical Company
Dr. and Mrs. Harold Johnson
Mrs. George Keiser
Jack Lawrence
Mr. and Mrs. George McGhee
Beatrice Mayer
Mr. and Mrs. G. William Miller
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. John Nef
Fisher H. Nesmith, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Parker
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Pierce
Dorothy B. Porter
Mr. and Mrs. George Renchard
Mr. and Mrs. Hans Ries
Mr. and Mrs. Fred M. Richman
Warren M. Robbins
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Salan
Gustave Schindler
Anne Shultz
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Siff
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Smiley
Jean Sternberg
Hon. and Mrs. Clare Timberlake
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Watkins III
Hon. and Mrs. Franklin Williams
Mildred Winer
Dr. Gordon R. Miller Alfred T. Morris, Sr. Robert and Nancy Nooter William J. Piccerelli
Dr. Peter A. Pizzarello Mrs. Lawrence Richmond Warren Robbins
Harold Rome
Mr. and Mrs. David Ross Louis J. Shatkin
Joseph Sinclair
Daniel Slott
Robert Smith
James Smithson Society Irwin Sparr
Benjamin Weiss
David Ziegele
Donors of Financial Support
Ann Uhry Abrams American Association of University Women
538 / Smithsonian Year 1981
American Security Bank Anonymous Elizabeth W. Aspinwall

<<<Page: 549>>>

Roy E. Baharian
Eleanor Dodge Barton
John and Betty Benton
Celia Betsky
Charles Blitzer
Joseph J. and Madelyn A. Bonsignore
J. Carter Brown
College Art Association of America
Maurice B. and Alice C. Cramer
Dr. and Mrs. Abraham W. Danish
Estate of Robert Tyler Davis
James T. and Barbara Demetrion
John H. Dobkin
Charles C. Eldredge
Col. and Mrs. Robert T. Evans
Mr. and Mrs. Alan M. Fern
Lois Marie Fink
George Gurney
R. Philip Hanes, Jr.
Irene Heppner
Libby B. Dunn Hertzmark
Thomas Carr Howe
Caroline H. Hume
John L. and Jane L. Hummer
Richard M. Hunt
Douglas K. S. Hyland
Sheila Isham
Helen Cornell Jagger
Paul B. Johnson
Katherine Lee Keefe
Mary Jean Kentan
The Deymour H. Knox Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler
Robert P. Kogod
David Lloyd Kreeger
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Irene Lagorio
Milton H. Latter Educational and Charitable Foundation
Virginia A. Lee
Kathleen S. Louchheim
Donors to the Collections
Keith Achepohl
David K. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. David K. Anderson Anonymous
Robert L. Bailey
Will Barnet
Mrs. Frederic Clay Bartlett Nounoufar Boghosian Brandywine Graphic Workshop Marcella Brenner
Mona Brooks
Beatriz Candioti
Richard Louie
Nan Tucker McEvoy The McKee Foundation, Inc. Lee Malone
Mrs. John B. Mannes The Charles E. Merrill Trust Ellen G. Miles
John Hallmark Neff Stephen D. Paine Vincent and Anne Paine Helen D. Perkins
Esther W. Putnam
Jean Quinnette
S. Dillon Ripley
Edward F. Rivinus
Allen Rosenbaum Charles H. Sawyer Charles H. and Katherine C. Sawyer David P. Schuyler
Jean M. Seth
Alan Shestack
Caroline T. Simmons Kathryn T. Simpson Patterson Sims
Aneliese Sinn
Mrs. John Sloan
Regina Soria
Gary J. Stass
B. Jean Strong
George B. Tatum
Mrs. Walter N. Tobriner Archie R. Tinturi
United Technologies Vicki Bagley Realty, Inc. William B. Walker Clune J. Walsh, Jr.
Rose R. Weil
Helen Joy Weinberg John Wilmerding Virginia Bloedel Wright Kenneth A. Yellis
Judith K. Zilczer
Dr. and Mrs. Jerone W. Canter Virginia Cartwright Helene K. Chabot (with Ethel F. Kiler Estate) Chanler A. Chapman Charlottesville/ Albemarle Foundation for the Encouragement of the Arts Mrs. Eliot Clark Jill I. Cole Dr. G. Austin Conkey in memory of Evelyn Blunt Conkey and Floyd Douglas Conkey
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 539

<<<Page: 550>>>

Howard Cook
Philip Cornelius
Walter M. Crump
Corinne and Theodore Davidov
Dr. and Mrs. E. Arthur Dreskin
Jeanet Steckler Dreskin
Werner Drewes
Robert Ebendorf
Wendy Fay Eisenberg
Elliot P. Ellis
Joe M. Erdelac
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fendrick
Concetta Fenicchia
Barbara G. Fitch
Ford Foundation, through Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art
Scott Frankenberger
Nina Gaby
William L. Garver and Lila S. Garver
Sue V. Gibson
James Goode
Mrs. Sarah Goodelman
Sidney Guberman
Jack Hagman
Ida Watkins Harkness
Mary E. Hilbert
Thomas R. Hoadley
Betty A. Holt
Dr. and Mrs. Hoppenstein
Milton Horn
Jane Hummer
Douglas K. Hyland
Charles G. Jules
City of Kalamazoo
Ethel F. Kiler Estate (with Helene K. Chabot)
Robert A. Klayman
S. W. & B. M. Koffler Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Monroe W. Kornfeld
Suzanne Kores
Aaron Kozak
Paul Laessle
Larry Epping Building Company
Barbara Latham
Sara L. Lepman
Dr. and Mrs. Robert G. Loeffler
Joy Lonergan
Henry H. Lyman
Ed McGowin
Lemuel A. W. Manchester
Charlotte Sanford Mason and Philip A. Mason
Beatrice C. Mayer
Annabell Miller
Virginia Moyer (and Jane N. C. Sullivan)
540 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Mr. and Mrs. Rene Muller
Paul and Lucy Natkiel
Norma Neuman
Benjamin P. Nicolette
Ben Niese
Elizabeth Olds
Reid Ozaki
Paul and Elmerina Parkman
Laura Peery
Charlotte Potok
Ann Prendergast
Henry Ward Ranger through National Academy of Design (Birmingham Museum of Art)
Henry Ward Ranger through National Academy of Design (Museum of Fine Arts, Boston)
Henry Ward Ranger through National Academy of Design (Museum of Fine Arts, Houston)
Henry Ward Ranger through National Academy of Design (Minneapolis Institute of Arts)
Juliet Man Ray
Charles and Janice Rosenak
Joan K. Rosenberg
James Rosenfield, in memory of Lenore Marian Rosenfield
Dr. and Mrs. James C. Ross
William Roth
Dr. and Mrs. George Schneider
Adele Y. Schonbrun
Carl W. Schwarcz
Marilee H. Shapiro
Mary Elizabeth Sharpe
Anne Shultz
Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Thomas E. Simpson
George W. Sims
Helen Burr Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson Levering Smith
Janet Solinger
La Salle Spier
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Stamm
Thomas Whital Stern
Richard B. Studley
Jane N. C. Sullivan (and Mrs. Virginia Moyer)
Katharine Sergava Sznycer
Lynn Turner
Tom Turner
Frances Stevenson Wein
Dr. Comilda Weinstock
James L. Whitehead

<<<Page: 551>>>

Donors of Financial Support
Rita Adrosko
AKC Fund, Inc.
American Association of Anesthesiologists
American Legion Post 88, Committee to Save Old Glo
American Legion Post 163
American National Red Cross
Amos Press
Anonymous
Atwood Foundation
Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
Mrs. Richard P. Baks
Virginia S. Ballard
Bank fur Gemeinwirtschaft
The Bass Foundation
Eleanor F. Battle
Laura F. Beavers
Mr. William Berbington
The Blythswood Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Bodman
Marjorie N. Boone
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore H. Booth
Fred C. and Jane H. Bowers
Harold H. Bredell
Mrs. Percy W. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Weir M. Brown
Wendy Burgess
Frank W. Cawood
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Childs
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Childs
Hope S. Childs
Mrs. T. K. Cline
Mrs. Thomas Cline
Marshall Clinton, M.D.
Commezbank A.G.
Mary Cooley
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Crea
Cutter Laboratories, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Linn Darlington
Virginia C. Darneille
Daughters of the American Revolution (Tennessee Society)
Mr. and Mrs. George Degarmo
Deutsche Bank A.G.
Elizabeth H. Dietz
Marion T. Dimwick
Mrs. Louise Domin
Dresdner Bank A.G.
EM Chemicals
Ruth T. Entrekin
European American Bank
Fag Bearings Corporation
The Fay Improvement Company
Bernard S. Finn
First American Bank
Mr. and Mrs. David B. Fitzgerald
Ms. Beatrice L. Goldberg
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Greer
Mr. G. E. Hall
Ruth L. Hammer
The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection & Insurance Co.
International Harvester Co.
American Hoechst Corporation
Mr. George B. Holmes
The Johns Hopkins University
Huddleston Investment Co., Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Paul H. Johnson
Capt. E. E. Johnson
Anthony J. T. Kloman
Mrs. Otto Peter Kominik
Korf Industries
Laurence E. Korwin
Mr. and Mrs. David Lloyd Kreeger
Leatherwood Land Company
Harry G. and Elizabeth C. Lee
Hope G. Lee
Helen Levy
Hapag-Lloyd (America) Inc.
Lurgi Corporation
Dr. Arnold Manor
Ella Jean Mark
Mr. John Russell Mason
Mrs. Constance L. Mellen
Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc.
Shirley K. Meyers
Mobay Chemical Corporation
Mrs. Patricia J. Modlin
Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris
Jeanne H. Morris
Ms. Susan Myers
Washington, D.C., Chapter, Inc., National Railway Historians
Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.
Mrs. Horace W. Peters
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence J. Radice
Rodris Roth
Rev. Jeffrey F. Samaha
Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz
J. W. Sefton Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Evelyn H. Seward
Mr. and Mrs. Ben Shouse
Mr. Sidney N. Shure
Schloemann-Siemas, Inc.
Siemens Corporation
Caroline T. Simmons
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 541

<<<Page: 552>>>

Mr. W. N. Harrell Smith Mr. and Mrs. Bronson Tweedy
Mrs. Francis A. Smith Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen Hon. and Mrs. Henry P. Smith III Mrs. Marguerite Verrill
Mrs. Janet Solinger Volkswagon of America, Inc. V. Clain-Stefanelli Ms. Hazel B. Wells Tennessee American Legion Post 15 Mr. and Mrs. James Wesner Time-Life Books, Inc. Louise D. Wintzer
Donors to the National Collections
Anne E. and Ronald D. Abramson: 2 vases made by Dale Chihuly and 1 vase made by Dan Dailey (1981.0016).
Raul Santiago Acosta Y Lara: a medal commemorating the 150th Anniversary of the Constitution (1981.0003).
Arthur S. Adams: sampler made by Sukey Foster, 1803 (1980.0849).
Anthony Adee: volleyball (1981.0139).
Louise Adkins: glass pitcher with a picture of Shirley Temple (1980.0836).
Adolfo: 3-piece suit designed by Adolfo and worn by Mrs. Ronald Reagan at the National Republican Convention of 1980 (1980.0850).
Rita J. Adrosko: 2 pieces of power-woven silk damask, 1 piece of powerwoven figured silk fabric, and 1 piece of hand-brocaded silk fabric (1980. 0368); 10 fragments of nineteenth century wool Shaker chair tapes (1980. 0861).
Richard E. Ahlborn: lot of 37 fragments from Swann/Piercy kiln site in Alexandria, Virginia (1980.0181); “Taj Mahal & Ry Cooder” poster (1981.0142).
Albany Felt Company (through W. F. Fry): 8 pieces of felt, 4 sample cards, 2 fabric samples, and a fume bag (1980.0542).
Governor Lamar Alexander: button, ‘““Reagan/Baker/80” (1980.0633).
Dennis Scott Alwood: 1 seventy-five-cent coin made of rhodium, picturing Charlie McCarthy and Mortimer Snerd (1980.0430).
Irving Amen: 4 lithographs, “The Tribes,” by Irving Amen (1981.0243).
The American National Red Cross (through Hazel A. Braugh and Mary D. Doering): American Red Cross helmet, 3 posters, and 23 pins (1981.0284). American School of Classical Studies (through Dr. Richard H. Howland):
“Art Deco” chenille facecloth (1980.0434).
William H. Ammarell: 1 framed mourning picture by Emil Moutoux, dated 1896 (1980.0598).
Wally Amos and Christine Harris-Amos: 5 items pertaining to “Famous Amos” cookies, including 2 cookie bags, a cookie tin, a gauze shirt, and a Panama hat (1980.0886).
Anderson For President Headquarters (through Stan G. Lizama): Anderson For President campaign items, including 2 buttons, 2 bumper stickers, a lapel pin, a cap, and a poster (1980.0649).
Frank O. and Nancy L. Anderson: Civil War surgeon’s kit (1979.1174).
Ernest Angelo, Jr.: Texas State Delegation button used at the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0674).
Anonymous: plate, coffee cup, and saucer ordered by Mrs. Abraham Lincoln for the White House in 1865 (1980.0571); color decal set illustrating shoulder sleeve insignia (1979.0691).
Government of Antigua, Barbuda Dependency, Barbuda Post Office: recent postage stamp issues of Barbuda (1980.0601).
Government of Argentina, Postal Administration (through Susana Cacedevant): 5 mint Argentinian postage stamps (1980.0744).
L. C. Aronoff: Broadside from the 1968 Poor People’s Campaign and an anti-Vietnam War protest leaflet (1980.0555).
542 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 553>>>

Arundel Asphalt Products, Inc. (through Frederick R. Diehlmann, Jr.): planimeter in case (1981.0348).
Association of Living Historical Farms and Museums (through Steven H. Lewis): Hand corn planter (320045).
Caroline Leonardo Baisden and Erminia C. Leonardo: contract, man’s apron, cleaning formula, various tools, and accessories for manufacturing clothing, 1910—49 (1979.0063).
Michael Baldigo: 2 medals commemorating the Wisconsin Centennial and the Green Bay Tercentennial (1980.0983); bronze medal (1981.0005).
Bapsybanoo Marchioness of Winchester and Dr. Jal Pavry: autographed photographs of U.S. presidents, vice-presidents, governors, senators, and other political personalities of the twentieth century (1980.0480).
Ruth Barish: collection of Jewish New Year cards (1980.0285).
John D. Barry: 1 Speed Graphic press camera with a Graflite flashgun (1978. 0234).
Dorothy W. Bartlett: 1 tool chest and 17 hand tools used by Harmony Bartlett (1980.0726).
Exidena Bassett: baseball cap and catcher’s mitt (1981.0160).
Preston R. Bassett: 44 pieces of American glass, 8 pieces of earthenware, and 59 pieces of stoneware (1979.0577); 1 chandelier, c. 1820, a mold for tin soldiers, a mold for buttons, a wooden box with lid bearing the date 1822, and a wooden lemon reamer (1980.0250).
C. Leslie Batchelor and Grace Batchelor: drawing of an 1841 English locomotive (1980.0351).
Bates Fabrics, Inc. (through May Weston): 4 fabric samples (1980.0535).
Winifred H. Bauer, in memory of Captain Paul Sherman Bauer, and on behalf of Paul Sherman Bauer, Jr., Elizabeth Bauer Haviland, Robert Staunton Bauer, Karen Bauer Mitchell, and Ralph Sherman Bauer: a two-treadle flax spinning wheel (1980.0884).
Bruce S. Bazelon: 8 U.S. Navy items, including a Buships navigator’s case with 2 dividers, a WW II aviator’s wing insignia, 2 tailor trade cards, 1 draftsman’s pen point, and 1 midshipman’s dirk (1980.0652); 4 U.S. Marine Corps mess spoons and 2 Navy Department manuals (1981.0189) ; 2 U.S. Army mess cups, 1 Corps of Engineers Overseas cap, and 1 surgical instrument kit (1981.0440).
Bruce S. Bazelon and Edward Rubin: 1 Girl Scout blouse, a hunting vest, a jacket with Greyline patch, 2 Boy Scout jackets, a military style jacket, an Elks Club fez, and an Elks Club pennant (1980.0514).
William P. Bebbington: 1 violin labeled Joseph Guarnerius, by George August Gemunder (1980.0906).
May Becker: oval pincushion (1980.0751).
Robert Todd Lincoln Beckwith (through James T. Hickey): a platter from a service owned by Mrs. Abraham Lincoln (1980.0572).
Clay P. Bedford: French pinfire double-barrel fowling piece associated with Joseph Bonaparte during his residence in the U.S. (1980.0830).
Paul Z. Bedoukian: group of 7 Armenian medals (1979.1038).
Alan F. Beede: 1 lorgnette (1981.0029).
Michele Beiny: 3 Chelsea porcelain plates, c. 1755 (1979.1221).
Robert S. Bell, M.D., in honor of the Frank Bell family: appliqué quilt made by Mary C. Pickering (1981.0334).
Robert Benney: Japanese “Knee” mortar and a de-activated mortar shell, WW II (1980.0731).
Frank J. Berek: 1970 National Football League schedule in braille (1981.0141).
Charlotte V. Bergen: ‘Servais’” violoncello made by Antonio Stradivari in 1701, and a bow and a wooden case (1981.0289).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 543

<<<Page: 554>>>

Berkey K & L Custom Services (through Leonard Zoref): 5 color photographic prints, by Douglas Faulkner, of underwater subjects (1980.0052).
Catherine R. and Francis P. Bertrand: Navy register from 1900 and questionand-answer book in U.S. History (1980.0650).
Rafael Betancourt: poster titled “Retrospective View of Operation-Sail” (1980.0492).
Robert C. Bichan: mariner’s compass (1981.0020).
Israel I. Bick: 2 1980 “Stamp Expo” Presidential Covers (1981.0038).
Mrs. Julian A. Black: a bronzed boxing glove, a towel from the 1938 Schmeling-Louis fight, and 3 pairs of boxing gloves related to Joe Louis’s career (1980.0683).
Mrs. Erwin A. Blackburn: 5 pieces of women’s jewelry from the 1950s, designed by Nettie Rosenstein (1979.1088).
Matthew Douglas Blair: host container and chalice from WW II period chaplain’s kit, a pin, a poncho, a sleeping pad, and 6 insignia (1981.0151); Man-in-Service window sign and 17 pieces of sheet music, WW II period (1981.0257).
Sophia B. Blume, in memory of Flora Edelsteen: motion picture projector, “The Movie Maker,” with instruction sheets (1981.0259).
Doris Boger: amateur baseball uniform worn by Marvin L. Rhodes between 1910 and 1914 (1980.0773).
Geraldine and Joseph M. Boggio: 20 objects used in the exhibit Buckaroos in Paradise, including articles of clothing, personal grooming accessories, kitchenware, and tools (1981.0414); 1 “7 UP” branding iron and 1 “J-B” branding iron (1980.0338).
Dorothy B. Bolognini, in memory of Maestro Ennio Bolognini: Cello made by Rovatti in 1915, Buenos Aires, Argentina (1980.0909).
Ernst Nathorst Boos: Swedish private bank note for 10 kronor issued by the Helsinglands Enskilda Bank in Soderhamn, 1879 (1979.1054).
Helen Marshall Borchard: 4 phonorecords of “Wendy Marshall,” the “Toy Lady” (1980.0495).
Boren for President (through Alice I. P. Boren): bumper sticker and button used in the “Boron for Vice President” campaign (1980.0669).
John A. Borneman & Sons, Inc. (through John A. Borneman): 22 homeopathic pharmaceuticals, instruments, and accessories (1980.0770).
Cecil Taylor Bradley and Kathleen Forrest Bradley: 2 diplomas and a commencement program (1980.0534).
Margaret C. Brady: 11 pieces of Welsh theatrical costume worn by Gwyneth Hughes (1980.0485).
Bettina Tytus Brawn and Adele Emerson Cotton: weman’s hat, 1883 (1980. 0544).
George Breed: 2 “clumps” containing silver coins from the sea in the area of the Bahamas (1979.1188).
Chester “Chet’”’ Brewer: baseball glove and baseball uniform from the Kansas City Royals (1981.0203).
John F. Bringmann: engraved woodblock for printing blank checks for the Waterbury National Bank in the 1880’s (1980.0782).
Sally L. Bristol and Nancy G. Cook in memory of Frances Carpenter Cook: Pewter teapot by Boardman & Hart, 1828-53 (1981.0081).
Denise Brooks: fishing license, 1974-75 (1981.0140).
Glenn Weiandt Brown: 2 buttons and 2 ribbons of the American Independent Party (1980.0559).
James Brown: 1 metal badge, 4 white buttons, and 1 bronze button (1981. 0091).
544 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 555>>>

Joan S. Brown: 2 glass fire extinguishers, each marked “Harpen HAND GRENADE” and “STAR” (1980.0438).
Margaret S. Brown: linen and cotton tablecloth (1981.0256); a woven-patterned bookmark and a printed bookmark, both daied 1892 (1981.0470). Mrs. Robert L. Brown: handmade Spanish-American War valentine (1980.
0742).
Sally Ann Brown, in memory of Captain Dale Brown: Bausch & Lomb binoculars (1980.0879).
Ralph O. Brownfield: U.S. Air Corps uniforms and accessories (1979.0920).
Franklin R. Bruns III] and James Bruns: 1 school badge awarded to outstanding students of Public School 33 in Bronx, New York, 1923-24 (1981.0210).
Miriam Hawkins Bryant: Walnut tilt-top table, c. 1750-1769 (1980.0989).
Lloyd A. Buchalter: a Bundy tilting steam return trap, c. 1895, and a collection of cast-iron roller pipe supports (1980.0228).
Budeke’s Paints (through James A. McCormick): lid closer, c. 1923, spout cap sealer, c. 1920, and a gallon container of black rubbing varnish from Valentine & Co. (1981.0518).
Ida Reynolds Bumstead: 2 fans, 1905-1915, and a necklace, 1871 (1981.0505).
Ellen S. Burwell: vehicle lantern, c. 1910, and 22 horse bits (1979.0683).
Vannevar Bush: profile tracer (317853).
Robert Butman, in memory of William H. Finckel, Jr., and William H. Finckel, Sr.: 6 pamphlets, 1 article, and 6 letters related to William H. Finckel, Jr. (1979.1215).
Roger A. Byrnes: German spring gun, c. 1870's (1980.0953).
University of California, Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory (through Berlyn Brixner): 2 high-speed cameras, an oscilloscope camera with accessories, and 94 drawings & blueprints (1981.0238).
J. Duncan Campbell: 1 pair of hightop Blucher boots, 1945 Army issue (1979. 0189).
Walter E. Campbell: U.S. Army aviator’s badge, 1917 (1981.0095).
Government of Canada, Canadian Postal Administration: 10 postal cards from Canada (1981.0154).
Catherine B. and Lawson J. Cantrell: 15 gold medals, badges, or passes awarded to President W. H. Taft (1979.0042).
Audrey Captain: WW I objects, including identification tag, pair of breeches, coat, leggings, and 2 memorial certificates (1977.0910).
Carlisle Colonial Minute Men, Inc. (through Robert R. Heath): 2 Estabrook Trail Walk medals, 1980 (1980.0984).
Bonnie L. Carroll: a silver thimble and a cotton pieced-work quilt (1979.0933).
Anderson Carter (through Geraldine Carter): 1 New Mexico for Reagan button, 1980 (1980.0564).
Amy R. Chassid: metallurgical balance (1981.0406).
Republic of China, Directorate General of Posts, The Philatelic Department: 230 recent postal issues of the Republic of China (1981.0097).
Denise S., Melody, and Michelle J. Christian: 1 cheerleader’s megaphone, a hat, a baton, a National Baton Twirling Association patch, a “NW” patch, and a “Pounce the Panthers” button (1981.0143).
Patrick K. C. Chun: 14 pacemaker electrode tips (1981.0376); 12 cardiovascular catheters (1981.0528).
University of Cincinnati, Department of Mechanical Engineering (through Ivan E. Morse): 4 planimeters, all in cases (1981.0301).
Nicholas J. Cinciotta: 16 gold-pointed fountain pens dating from 1933-1960 (1981.0103); 1 silver-pointed and 15 gold-pointed fountain pens dating from 1933-1960 (1981.0104).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 545

<<<Page: 556>>>

Citizen’s Party-N.R.V. (through Myles Miller): 1 poster, “Vote Citizen’s Party 1980” (1981.0308).
Civic Host Committee, Inc. for the 1980 Republican National Convention (through Carol Gies): pennant used at the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0530).
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: pair of dies for silver staters of Metapontum (1979. 1232); pair of dies for twenty litrae gold coins of Syracuse (1979.1239); pair of dies probably by Tardani for coins of Syracuse, Corinthian stater series, also trial strikes in lead (1979.1240); pair of dies for silver sixteen litrae pieces of Queen Philistis, wife of Hieron II of Syracuse (1979.1241); pair of steel dies with copper inserts for silver tetradrachms of the SiculoPunic series showing head of Persephone and horse standing (1979.1243); pair of dies for Siculo-Punic silver tetradrachms with head of Hercules, and lead trial strikings (1979.1244).
Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli: pair of dies attributed to Tardani used for striking silver tetradrachms of Rhegium (1979.1233); pair of steel dies for ancient gold coins of Agrigentum, Sicily (1979.1234); pair of dies made of brass set in steel for silver tetradrachms of Messana, Sicily (1979.1235); pair of dies for silver didrachms of Segesta, Sicily (1979.1236); pair of steel dies for tetradrachms of Selinus, Sicily (1979.1237); pair of copper dies set in steel for silver tetradrachms of Selinus (1979.1238); U.S. and foreign used stamps (1981.0155).
Geo. M. Clark: 3 WW II objects, including a herringbone twill jacket and trousers and a field jacket (1979.0301).
Alan M. and Jean M. Clarke: US Staff Officer’s uniform coat, sword, and scabbard (1980.0236).
Edmund W. Clarke: Oliver number 9 typewriter accessories (1981.0105).
Elizabeth Clarke: Anti-era brochures, leaflets, handouts, a poster, and an adhesive sticker (1980.0472).
Ethel Clarke: 2 valentines with embossed envelopes (1980.0846).
George M., Margaret F., and Thomas G. Cleveland, Frances C. Corcoran, Charlotte C. Look, and Ann C. Robertson: silk stockings and evening bag associated with Mrs. Grover Cleveland (1980.0979).
Alan E. Cober: poster of the 1980 presidential candidates Carter and Reagan (1981.0222).
Barbara J. Coffee: Painted silk chair seat covering (1981.0008); pair of white gloves (1980.0413).
Francis Edwards, Ltd., and Mrs. Julian James: 2 fashion plates (1981.0357).
Republic of Colombia, Ministry of Communications, National Postal Administration: 36 First Day Covers from Colombia (1981.0125).
George L. and Mary E. Compton: political campaign memorabilia, including 7 candle lanterns, 3 banners, 3 clay pipes, 2 torch lights, a stoneware crock, a flag, a glass chimney, an ice pick, parade body armor, a parade torch, a pewter cup, and an umbrella (1980.0482).
Computer Sciences Corporation, System Sciences Division (through Dr. Arturo Silvestrini and T. L. Gunther): Wang LOCI-2 desk computer, IBM Port-APunch, punch cards, and associated materials (1980.0096).
Conchemco Incorporated (through James A. McCormick): Patterson Laboratory pebble mill and a paint mill (1978.0510).
Joyce E. Cone: 3 coverlet samples handwoven by the donor in 1980 (1981. 0045).
Mrs. R. F. Conlisk: 82 phonorecords (1980.0339).
The Right Reverend Eugene T. Connolly: copper plate with the Declaration of Independence engraved on it, 1859 (1980.0767).
Government of the Cook Islands, Ministry of Posts, Philatelic Bureau: 34 mint and used stamps, First Day Covers and souvenir sheets (1981.0179).
546 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 557>>>

Grace R. Cooper: ‘“Martha Washington’’-style electric sewing machine manufactured by White Sewing Machine Company (1981.0254).
CooperVision Incorporated, Optics Division (through John M. Blackmore): 6 soft contact lenses (1981.0275).
Alton M. Costley in memory of Edgar M. and Lonnie S. Costley: 1914 Chevrolet roadster (1978.1027).
Ron Council: 1 Argus C3 35mm camera and accessories (1980.0801).
Mildred F. Councilor: 4 hangers, 1815-1925 (1979.0483).
Margaret K. and W. S. Cowles: 1 twenty-dollar gold piece in high relief, 1907 (1979.1158).
William R. T. Crolius: stoneware jug stamped with mark of Clarkson Crolius, ca. 1794-1838 (1980.0658); 1 stoneware inkwell made by Clarkson Crolius, ca. 1800-1830 (1981.0035).
Crown Agent: sheet of 12 mint stamps from Christmas Island, 1977 (1981. 0152).
Jimmie Crutchfield: baseball shoes, 2 tickets, and a baseball contract (1981. 0129).
Will W. Curl III: officer’s ““tanker’”’ jacket, Vietnam War period (1979.0804).
Stephen Cutter: group of Spanish-American silver coins salvaged from the Galleon Nuestra Senora de Atocha (1979.1187).
Marion G. and Robert G. Dalton: portrait of Mrs. Richard Nixon by Diana Neville (1981.0453).
Mrs. Voldemars Dambekalns: toy scooter manufactured by “GENORON” Wheel Co., ca. 1924 (1981.0215).
Barry A. Davidson, M.D.: surgeon’s kit, ca. 1840 (1981.0449).
Edwin Davis, Jr., M.D.: group of Spanish-American silver coins salvaged from the Galleon Nuestra Senora de Atocha (1979.1186).
Leon Day: baseball uniform, ‘Estrellas Importadas,” including cap, pants, shirt, and socks (1981.0013).
Mrs. Kalman J. DeJuhasz: 14 steam engine indicators, 6 gas engine indicators, patterns for casting indicator parts, photo recorder, indicator, and a Manograph (1981.0217).
S. A. M. and S. U. Deraniyagala: 167 prints by Ranil Deraniyagala (1980. 0489).
Eleanor Dickinson: “fallout’’ and healing cloths, healing apron, towel for washing feet, wine glass and cracker used in a religious service (1980.0610) ; robe, hood, pamphlets, brochures, and literature from the Ku Klux Klan (1980.0481).
District of Columbia, Department of Transportation (through Charles M. Stuart, Jr.): 4 1981 inaugural maps, 2 ‘No Parking” signs, and a map showing the portions of the city involved in the inaugural ceremonies (1981. 0102).
Alice L. C. Dodge: black lace fan with platinum and diamond monogram (1981.0056).
Heer Dohrman (through Forest Beverly): Russian Nagant revolver and an English Webley revolver (1980.0845).
Catherine Doig: U.S. flag with 45 «tars, 1896-1908 (1981.0282).
Alice A. Donaldson: November: 15, 1918, edition of the Stars and Stripes newspaper (1980.0057).
G. A. Donovan: little league jersey and cap (1981.0135).
The Honorable R. K. Dornan: button with the slogan “Reagan/Kempt & Dornan ’80” (1980.0667).
Gladys C. Dougherty: 1 three-tine cooking fork, 1856 (1980.0549); 2 ambrotypes, 1 albumen carte-de-visite, 1 silver print, and 5 tintype photographs (1981.0239); 1 silver bookmark (1981.0411); women’s jewelry, including 6 bracelets, 2 pairs of earrings, a brooch, and a headdress (1980.0092).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 547

<<<Page: 558>>>

Estate of Justice William O. Douglas (through Shelton S. Cohen and Martha C. Yopp): 2 buttons and a bumper sticker relating to the Democratic Party’s attempt to draft William O. Douglas for president in 1952 (1980.0521).
Edith Douglass and Mary Douglass Rackliffe: a miniature portrait of Andrew Ellicott, shoe buckles, wax seal, portable copying machine, photographs, maps, and literature related to Andrew Ellicott (1980.0761).
Peg Downey: 174 objects from the 1980 Copenhagen World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women (1980.0603).
Julie B. Dreyfus: women’s fashion plate from Peterson’s Magazine, June 1870 (1978.0325).
Governor Lee Sherman Dreyfus: button with the legend “Republican National Convention 1980 REAGAN” and a lapel pin worn by Wisconsin state delegates at the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0565).
Arthur D. Dubin: pullman conductor’s cap (1981.0327).
J. H. DuBois: 15 celluloid cuffs, a pair of linen cuffs, a plastic artillery shell, and a collar cuff box (1981.0384).
Alene B. Duerk: U.S. Navy uniforms and uniform items worn by the donor as the first woman appointed rear admiral in the Navy Nurse Corps (1979. 0237).
Jimmy Durante Children’s Fund (through Robert Romano): a grey felt hat worn by Jimmy Durante and a plaque with the sheet music cover of “Inka Dinka Doo” (1980.0525); 2 pieces of sheet music “If the World Were Full of Durantes” and “You're One In a Million” (1981.0121).
Georgia A. Dwight: Kansas City Monarchs baseball uniform (1981.0202).
Wm. Jerry Eagle: 19 artifacts relating to Virginia Sullivan’s medicine show (1980.0693).
Central Bank of Egypt (through the Manager, Note Issue Department): Egyptian bank note L.E. 20 (1980.0557).
Asbeth Lee Eichner and Jack M. Eichner: 71 phonograph records (1980.0284).
Jo Anne and William A. Eidson: silver boatswain’s trumpet, 1858 (1980.0464).
Laurie Einstein: 1 phonograph record (1980.0774).
H. K. Eklund: WW II mountain tent and accessories (1979.1213).
Mary D. Ellingson: stoneware vase made by Marietta Hipple, ca. 1953 (1981.0006).
Miriam Ellis: U.S. cover postmarked Cleveland, Ohio, 10 April 1947, incorporating the letters “D.P.O.” (1981.0335).
Robert C. Ely: Northwest Trade Gun, pattern 1886 (1980.0416).
Marcie S. Emerson: 2 U.S. Army European operator’s licenses (1981.0258).
Lieut. Col. William K. Emerson: 3 blank letterheads of the U.S. Department of the Army and 12 blank certificates of award (1978.0604); 2 identification cards, 2 border passes, and 2 ration cards (1981.0171).
Anne Eustis Emmet: glazed earthenware figure of a standing dog, made in the Shenandoah Valley in midto late-nineteenth century (1980.0439).
Mrs. John H. Enns: collection of labels from Chinese New Year firecrackers (1980.0741).
B. Frank Eshleman: collection of cigar bands (1980.0916).
Evan-Picone (through Irving Spitalnick): 5 patterns, 1973-79 (1980.0137).
Lin Renn Evans: printed cotton fabric, pre-Civil War era (1980.0433).
Paul F. Evans: 2 ceramic objects made by the Chelsea Keramic Art Works, Chelsea, Massachusetts (1979.1150).
The Eyecatcher (through Joyce E. Hamula): 4 1980 presidential campaign buttons, 4 buttons relating to the opposition to the women’s movement, and 1 anti-abortion button (1980.0732).
Richard B. Farrar: 1 Premo folding camera, film, and a carrying case (1981. 0265).
Mathilde B. Faulkner: a campaign poster and a pin (1981.0382).
548 / Smithsonian Year 1981
. (4 oo eee

<<<Page: 559>>>

Marguerite Faupel: 20 patterns of tin, paper, and steel for bits and spurs, and a catalogue from Miller and Tietjen (1980.0294).
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (through Ralph A. Cann): Frahm system vibration tachometer (1980.0841).
Barney J. Felix: boxing shoes (1981.0137).
Michael P. Finerty: engraved spanish revolver that belonged to Maj. Gen. Alexander Orlov, Czarist Russian Army (1981.0379).
Detmar H. Finke: Staunton Military Academy bag used by the donor’s son while a cadet (1980.0103).
Arlene J. Finley: 7 WW I postcards (1979.0290).
Jane A. Finn: a 1931 movie banner (1980.0499).
Lenore E. Fitzsimons: 21 etchings by Otto J. Schneider (1980.0833).
Frank L. Flay: badge from the 1892 National Democratic Convention (1980. 0804).
Association of Flight Attendants (through Pamela J. Casey): a banner from the Sixth Biennial Board of Directors Meeting of the Airline Pilots Association. Steward and Stewardess Division (1980.0504).
Florence Ott Focht: 1 buffalo robe (1980.0233).
Donald W. Foote: 5 Army Air Force records of the donor (1980.0278).
Rex J. Ford: 2 buttons, 1 for the Florida State Delegation, used at the 1980 Republican National Convention, the other used in Paula Hawkins’s campaign for senator of the state of Florida (1980.0734); 2 buttons used in Paula Hawkins’s campaign for senator of the state of Florida (1980.0825).
Eric G. and Ivar Forsberg: tool chest and 132 silversmithing tools used by Karl Johan Forsberg (1981.0098).
Alexander L. Fortunato: 1 Brownie 8mm movie camera, Falcon 127 rollfilm camera, 2 rolls of film, and a flashgun (1981.0315).
Arlene J. Franchino: 1 croquet ball (1981.0136).
Emma Freda in memory of Anthony Freda: Burroughs manual adding machine (1981.0058).
Martha Gale Frew, on behalf of the James E. Frew Family: 1 C-tenor (melody) saxophone (1979.0863).
Herbert G. Fritz: Phonograph record commemorating Elvis Presley, “Ole El Was Born For Institution” (1980.0625).
Frontier Museum Historical Center (through John E. Bianchi): cased reproduction model of Louis S. Flatau’s patent pistol and carbine holder (1981. 0346).
Fuller & d’Albert Incorporated (through John F. Meenehan): a Norwood Flashrite Exposure Meter (1981.0318).
Katharine Morton Fulmore, in memory of Caroline Lexow Babcock: memorabilia concerning Peace Activism, The National Woman’s Party, and the Equal Rights Amendment (1980.0475).
Alan Arthur Funk, CLU: 2 pieces of twelve-point type with the Lord’s Prayer cast on the face of each and a cardboard container (1981.0149).
Julie L. Gaebe: tennis socks (1981.0148).
Jean H. Gallahan: a pocket magnifier, a leather ring pad, and an engraver’s block all used by master engraver Thomas Geraci and possibly by his wife Eva Geraci (1980.0718); miscellaneous tools and stones left by master engraver, Thomas Geraci and his wife Eva Geraci (1980.0589).
D. L. Ganz: brass and iron pattern strikings for small dollar coins (1980. 0962); copper and silver pattern strikings for small size dollar coins (1980. 0961).
Gardena Valley Democratic Club (through H. Belcher and J. H. Griffis): 2 campaign buttons, “Californians for Kennedy” (1981.0469).
George and Julius Garfield: collection of 547 pharmaceutical artifacts from Garfield and Company, Edison, New Jersey (1979.1144).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 549

<<<Page: 560>>>

George E. Gary: WW I memorabilia, including 3 passes, 3 accounts, 2 train tickets, 1 membership card, and 1 letter (1978.0269).
Julius H. Gass on behalf of Jodi Sheryl Sosnoff and Michael L. Gass: typewriter with keys arranged in a semi-circle (1981.0107).
Mrs. William S. Gaud: 1 embroidered net collar and 1 printed chintz fabric (1981.0295).
Murray Geller: electro-therapeutic machine contained in a case (1981.0447).
Robert E. Gemmill: Edwards bar shears and lever (1981.0311); a square, 2 axle gauges, a brace, and a hub borer (1981.0364).
Gibraltar Fabrics, Inc. (through Sheldon Farber): 4 nylon fabric samples (1980.0540).
Lincoln J. Gilbert: U.S. underhammer “Bootleg” pistol (1980.0619).
Frank B. Gilbreth, Jr.: 204 stereographs depicting the work and associates of Frank B. and Lillian M. Gilbreth (1980.0785).
John M. Gilbreth: a “GiLBRETH” pocket stop watch (1980.0808).
Harold E. Good: WW I Chevron (1980.0663).
B. F. Goodrich Company (through H. F. Bichsel): fabric sample used in the manufacture of space suits (1980.0539).
Ronald S. Gordon: 2 eyepieces, a set of paired eyepieces, and a microscope (1978.2222).
George E. Gorman: WW II period shoe inserts for shoe pacs (1981.0307).
W. R. Grace Company (through James A. McCormick): 2 PPG wood stain and 1 ppc compo-drier (1981.0516).
John P. Grady: a squash racket and ball (1981.0145).
Margaret W. Gramling: a Comet Seeker, a telescope, and a rain gauge (1980.0709).
Betty Grayson: tennis socks (1981.0458).
Paula Green Inc. Advertising (through John Glucksman): 2 video cassettes containing the first two commercials produced for International Ladies Garment Workers Union (1981.0365).
Mary A. Grefe: 16 objects from the 1980 Copenhagen World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women (1981.0036).
Cindy and John R. Grellman, Jr.: “Hard Times” token (1981.0004).
Gries/Dynacast Company, Division of Coats and Clark Inc. (through Rita Miller): 4 president “Picker” coins (1980.0772).
Robert H. Gross: necktie from the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0524).
Nicholas Grossman: calculator (1980.0813).
Sanford Grossman: 11 campaign buttons and a campaign T-shirt (1980.0517).
Louis R. Groza: pair of football shoes worn by the donor (1980.0488).
Dona Guimaraes: 1 woman’s skirt, 1905-1915, and women’s shoes, 1979 (1979.0885).
Michele Guimarin: 15 objects concerning activist political acitvities against nuclear power (1981.0434).
Government of the Republic of Guinea, Philatelic Agency: 48 mint stamps of Guinea (1981.0241).
William H. Guthman: 9 military guns and 1 bayonet (1980.0856).
Julian F. Hadley: a 35-star flag from the schooner Henry P. Simmons, Ca. 1889 (1981.0283).
Paul C. Hager: 6 used and 1 mint Nepalese stamps (1980.0599).
Hascal Haile: classical guitar made by Hascal Haile in 1972 (1980.0681).
Alfredo and Raquel Halegua: violin made by Giovanni Francesco Leonporri, Milan, Italy 1785 (1980.0838).
John R. Hall: 2 shelf clocks (1981.0063).
Henry Hamelly: U.S. First Day Covers (1980.0600).
Hand Fans Unlimited (through William H. Wallo): 4 campaign fans, 2 with
550 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 561>>>

the slogan “I am a Reagan Fan,” 2 with the slogan “I am a Carter Fan” (1980.0561).
John P. Hankey: 3 rail knees (1981.0450).
David A. Hanks, in honor of Dr. Richard H. Howland: An American Empire Revival-style cabinet by Sypher and Company, and a cast-iron stand for fire tools (1980.0688).
Betty Hannigan: a pair of French binoculars, U.S. Signal Service (1980.0661).
Jack E. Harris: Speed Graphic press camera with film pack adapter, flash gun, and bulb (1978.1032).
Michael R. Harris: collection of 118 biologicals, patent medicines, and pharmaceutical sundries (1981.0170).
Mrs. Victor Harris: game ticket “Negro National League at Yankee Stadium” (1981.0356).
Ardyce E. Harrison: U.S. Smith and Wesson revolver (1981.0347).
James A. Hart: pair of arctic boots and a pair of ski trousers (1981.0418).
Hart, Schaffner, and Marx (through Robert G. Connors): 1919-1929 pressing machine (1979.0555).
Hartford Electric Light Company, subsidiary of Northeast Utilities (through Walter F. Fee and Donald C. Switzer): 1 Mercury Unit Power Plant boiler section and 3 nameplates (1980.0908).
Fred Hartman: platform lift truck (1981.0525).
Thomas J. Haycroft: 1 8th Sky Cavalry shirt and 5 scarves (1980.0642).
Elizabeth Haynes: 2 “Ike” tie pins from the Eisenhower campaign for president (1980.0842).
Skip Headley: button “Republican Nat’l Convention Oklahoma/Reagan Country “80” (1980.0634).
Margaret Healey Hearn: gold glazed cup and saucer made by Mary and Emily Healey. ca. 1895-1900 (1980.0749).
Edith B. Hebblethwaite: Frejus bicycle, ca. 1963, used by Earle Avann Bronson (1979.0685).
Ed Hedemann: 2 newsletters from 1976, The Continental News Walk and WRL News (1980.0586).
Bruce A. and Georgia C. Hedrick: 2 pairs of Eskimo sunglasses (1981.0273).
Oscar W. Heimberger: steam engine indicator (1981.0394).
William H. Helfand: 63 pharmaceutical objects (1980.0678); arm-rest, wooden box, MA-LE-NA stomach liver pills, and a ball and socket advertising device (1980.0820) ; “Holloway’s Pills and Ointments” medal, and Raccoon corn plasters (1981.0262).
E. Y. Henderson-Taylor: 14 wood-engraved bookplates by E. Mervyn Taylor (1980.0781).
A. L. Hendry & Company (through James A. McCormick): Pratt & Lambert ivory gloss paint (1981.0515).
Patricia M. and Stewart M. Henry: Electro-therapeutic battery (1980.0803).
William K. Henson: U.S. Army service coat (1979.0690); Polaroid “Speedliner” camera kit and accessories (1980.0818).
Rochambeau A. Herosian: 5 accessory packets, 4 ration packets, and a bullet clip (1979.0836); U.S. Army raincoat (1980.0045); rain hood and goggles (1980.0195); combination tool for U.S. rifle (1980.0855); WW II facsimilie letter signed by General D. D. Eisenhower (1981.0047); protractor, scale, card, and a graphic training aid (1981.0077); 2 cotton khaki shirts and a U.S. Army National Guard Distinguished Service medal (1981.0370).
Claude L. Herrick: pocket watch with brass watch fob in the shape of a tractor (1980.0452).
Robert F. Hester: embossed valentine and envelope (1981.0391).
Hildegarde: 1 pair of gloves, 1 artificial red rose, 7 pieces of sheet music, and 1 lace handkerchief (1980.0403).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 551

<<<Page: 562>>>

Col. Georgia D. Hill, WAC: Army-green woman’s service hat (312416.00).
Robert L. Himrod: WW II civilian-style officer’s boots (1979.0444).
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Hodge: 5 greeting swags (1981.0390); in memory of Mrs. Tillie C. Friend-Newman, 3 swags for making valentines (1980.0725).
Georgie E. Holden: 1 g-string worn by Baltimore stripper “Moana Lee” (1980.0687).
Lucia and Virginia Hollerith: Hollerith Association items (317982.00).
Boyd M. Holliday: Communist Worker’s Party rally handbill and a newspaper Workers’ Viewpoint (1980.0844).
Holtkamp Organ Company (through Walter Holtkamp, Jr.): Holtkamp portative organ made by Walter Holtkamp, 1935 (1981.0014).
Elizabeth Horn: 1 mid-nineteenth-century valentine with envelope (1981.0116).
Winter D. Horton: 2 radio transcriptions featuring Edward Everett Horton (1980.0487).
Richard H. Howland: 3 cancellation notices and 2 invitations (1981.0310).
Robert L. Hughes: U.S. five-dollar gold pattern, dated 1878 (1980.0976).
Janet M. Huling: poster of the Susan B. Anthony dollar (1980.0477).
Humphreys’ Pharmacal, Inc. (through Willard Eldredge): 61 homeopathic patent medicines and 1 poster (1980.0769).
James S. Hutchins: WW I print of a doughboy aiding a French soldier (316377.00); identification tag issued to the donor while a cadet at the U.S. Military Academy in 1942 (1981.0467).
International Business Machines Corporation (through F. P. Frost): Reel of typewriter ribbon fabric (1980.0537); (through Edmund Bowles): section of tubing from Keely perpetual motion machinery, Keely Motor Company stock certificate, autographed photograph of John Keely, and 3 photographs of Keely machinery (1981.0383).
International Union of Operating Engineers (through Frank Hanley): 5 union membership books, 5 union dues books, and 3 membership cards all used by A. H. Taylor of Charleston, West Virginia (1980.0656); (through Norman H. Fiske and Walter J. Hanley): 1 “Black Ball’ ballot box, used by the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local Union 100 (1980.0402).
Monte Irvin: pair of baseball shoes worn by the donor, ca. 1949 (1981.0446).
Patricia Bull Jamison: WW II U.S. Army uniform items and post-WW II U.S. Army Insignia, badges, medals, and ribbon sets (1980.0640).
Jefferson Parish, Louisiana (through Donald P. Crist): belt buckle, “Reagan/ 19Bush80” (1981.0490).
Peggy Fleming Jenkins: pink chiffon costume worn by Peggy Fleming in her first T.V. special (1981.0362).
Robert A. Jennings: Akeley 35mm motion picture newsreel camera and accessories (1980.0240).
Joseph P. Jodoin: Krag-Jorgensen rifle cartridges (1980.0611).
Joseph P. Jodoin, Jr.: 12 U.S. Army field rations from the Vietnam War period (1979.0356).
Adelina S. Johnson: 9 pictures formerly owned by Norman Sweetser (1981.0209).
Homer E. Johnson: Vibroplex key and box (1979.1016).
John P. M. Johnston: pharmaceutical balance (1980.0763).
Lee M. and Patricia M. Jones: mourning ring, 1784 (1981.0066).
Morris R. Jones, Jr.: WW I uniform and accessories (1980.0490).
Oliver M. Jones: German WW I trench map (1979.0581).
William E. Jones: Automotive tax stamp, WW II (1981.0323).
Jeffery V. Judson, Jr.: book by Edward Keane, Howdy Doody’s Circus (1980. 0626).
Burke Kaplan: 6 modern manufacture belt plates (1980.0628).
Edith B. Katz: 1 engraved steel-faced plate by Sir Peter Scott, depicting 7 ducks flying above a field (1980.0578).
552 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 563>>>

Harry Kay: 2 incandescent lamps (1980.0257).
Alice Anne Kelso: record album, “Mournful Sounds, In Memory of Abraham Lincoln” (1980.0608).
Joseph L. Kennedy: 3 US seals and 2 figurines in military uniform (1979. 0914); 2 US seals and a figurine in military uniform (1980.0035).
Kenyon Ccllege (through Thomas B. Greenslade, Jr.): refractor telescope (1980.0802).
Wayne D. Kerslake: poster, “Geo. D. Sweet’s Famous Company” (1981.0502).
Betty A. Kesner: WW II period plaque (1979.0426).
Sandra M. Kidd: 1 gold-colored Swiss watch with portrait of Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Nixon (1980.0690).
Claudia B. Kidwell: 29 1960-1969 hair curlers (1981.0025).
Maxine Kiefer: girl’s sun bonnet, 1879 (1980.0380).
James King: used copy of postage stamp, Switzerland, 1851 (1981.0255).
Pee Wee King: cowboy hat and a “Country Music Hall of Fame” program (1981.0385).
Le Roy O. Kittelson: Smith motor wheel, 1917 (1981.0407).
Antonie J. Koenig: 24 objects associated with the American National Red Cross, including uniform items and accessories, certificates, stamps, a letter, a photograph, and a flag (1980.0604).
Frank A. Koester: a one-pound wooden dumbbell (1981.0214).
Martin F. Kushner: Army-green uniform consisting of 1 coat, 1 shirt, and 2 pairs of trousers (1981.0094).
David S. Kyle: 6 WW I insignia (1979.0609); wool service coat (1979.1212).
Cameron J. LaClair, Jr.: calculator (1981.0403).
Fentan J. and Julius F. Lang: dual-action hydraulic ram (1981.0298).
Anne R. and Margaret D. R. Langdon: 1 waistcoat fragment, 1 pillow case, and 1 passementerie tie-back (1981.0074).
Margaret Langdon: 3 pageant posters (1980.0498).
Mary Ruth Lashley: dress worn by Rebecca Todd Belton to the 1845 inaugural ball (1981.0424).
Carolyn Waldo Law: Robert Burns commemorative towel and an 1886 plain woven linen sheet (1980.0375).
Joyce M. Leiby: 70 harness-making tools used by Albert H. Steigerwalt (1980.0831).
Lenox Incorporated (through Robert J. Sullivan): porcelain plate, ‘“GoldenCrowned Kinglets” (1980.0156).
Hardy M. Leonard: 31 stonecutter’s hand tools and 2 machinist’s gauges (1980.0677).
Walter “Buck” Leonard: baseball, baseball uniform, and travel bag used by the first baseman for the Homestead Grays (1981.0342).
Walter F. Leonard: 13 pieces of baseball memorabilia (1981.0123).
Alice A. Lescalleet: 13m typewriter keyed for typing technical reports (1981. 0109).
Hope Anthony Levy: linen doily commemorating the American Centennial of 1876 (1980.0374).
R. Michael Levy: hockey puck made in Czechoslovakia (1981.0213).
Edward R. Lewis, Jr.: Ramses fitting rings set (1980.0980); 4 “Coca Cola” glasses, 3 tumblers, an ice cream scoop, straw dispenser, dispenser bottle, and a “Hires” root beer mug (1980.0898).
Faith Ward Libby: Chippendale-style side chair, ca. 1750 (1981.0177).
James R. Libby: section of precast concrete pile removed from “B” Street Pier, ca. 1920, in San Diego Bay, California (1980.0728).
The Libertarian Party (through William D. Burt): Libertarian Party campaign items, including 4 buttons and a poster (1980.0637).
Thomas J. Liebel: power hacksaw ca. 1905 (1981.0018).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 553

<<<Page: 564>>>

Calvin Lieberman: Marchant calculator (1980.0805.)
Betty and Joseph A. Lisi: 5 buttons, 4 badges, 2 phonograph records featuring Joe Lisi, a tape titled “Labor History in Song,” a “Boycott Kohler” T-shirt and tie, a “UAW” handkerchief, a key chain, a lapel pin, and a membership card (1980.0291).
Dorothy A. Lloyd: woman’s sunbonnet, ca. 1850-99 (1979.0385).
Robert J. Locurto: 153 drugs and 32 pharmacy-related artifacts (1981.0219).
Loena Music Publishing Company, Hanlit Publications (through Andrea Fodor Litkei and Ervin Litkei): 17 pieces of sheet music, 6 records, 2 posters, an envelope, a pamphlet, and a flyer (1981.0037).
Daniel Clarke Loizeaux: engraver’s tools and related equipment used by the late Elie Timothee Loizeaux (1980.0409).
Long Island Coalition for Life (through Charles Williamson): 39 anti-abortion items (1979.0922).
Kathryn A. Looney: book, Columbia Gallery: A Portfolio of Photographs of the World's Fair (1980.0648).
LaVerne M. Love: 67 objects from the 1977 District of Columbia I.W.Y. State Meeting (1980.0470).
Herman H. Lowenstein: mechanical pencil (1981.0106).
Margaret E. Lowey: WWI U.S. Army coats, breeches, leggings, shoes, shovel, pick mattock, and hat (1977.0893).
Tamara Lubar: 9 presidential campaign buttons (1980.0636).
Inge D. and Henry D. Lynn: typewriter, Odell number 4 (1981.0108).
Nancy L. MacGibbon and Randy Mueller: 2 cardboard posters and 1 paper tag, “ERA IS A TURKEY” (1981.0051).
Jean S. MacKenzie: 14 pieces of opera costume worn by Tandy MacKenzie in Aida, sword and scabbard, and 4 phonograph records (1980.0629).
Warren MacKenzie: stoneware bowl with “Shino” glaze and iron oxide decoration made by Warren MacKenzie, 1980 (1980.0506).
Philip G. Magner, Jr.: incandescent lamp (1980.0259).
John Davis Malloy: a “Romper Room School” diploma (1980.0533).
Tullia Manca: 20 U.S. medal dies by Albino Manca (1979.1155).
Frances W. and Frederick A. Mann: U.S. National Flag bearing 37 stars, 1867-1877 (1980.0671).
Miguel Manteo: 1 Sicilian marionette, “Orlando,” made by donor (1980.0431).
Marimekko (through John Lagus and Ilkka Kalliomaa): 6 pieces of Marimekko printed fabric (1981.0333).
Cara Goldberg Marks and Michael Neil Marks: Ketubah, a Jewish wedding contract (1980.0903).
Peter K. Marsal: electronic flash unit (319932.00).
The Honorable George Perkins Marsh: 1 Engraving, Interior, by Cornelis da Visscher, and 1 engraving, The Wisemen, by Henry Goltzius (1981.0442).
Leona Marthaler: 27 labor union buttons from the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18, State of Ohio (1980.0496).
Raymond K. Martin: photographic negatives of theatrical and society persons, ca. 1910-1930 from the Ira Hill Collection (1981.0463).
Warren Martin: German Armed Forces flag, WW II period (1981.0299).
Maryland-D.C. Rifle and Pistol Association, Inc. (through Jasper Richard Cummings and Richard C. Whiting): addressing machine, Elliott model 300 (1980.0427).
Thomas A. Mason: 2 German naval foul weather jackets, 1 pair foul weather trousers, and 1 post-WW II amphibious flashlight (1980.0806).
Madeline R. Massaro: woman’s handbag (1979.1086); Dill’s Best tobacco tin (1979.1111).
The Honorable Burnita Shelton Matthews: judicial robe and briefcase used by Judge Burnita Shelton Matthews (1980.0911).
554 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 565>>>

Robert E. Matthews, Jr.: 6 presidential campaign buttons from 1980 (1980. 0691).
Rose Matthews: bronze medal produced by Cadillac Motor Car Division to commemorate the 1980 G.o.p. Convention (1980.0518).
William D. Mauldin: 1 file display consisting of 221 Disston files and related tools, ca. 1905 (1980.0864).
Emily Nelson Maxwell: program for the 1919 ‘Welcome Home Parade” (1980.0583).
Mrs. Gerald J. Mayer: 1 book, The Book of Presidents (231569.00).
Roberta A. McAllister: U.S. Army insignia, hat, sewing kit, anklets, and socks (1980.0662).
Jean McCormack: model of a steam engine (1981.0520).
Larry D. McCoy: Kennedy “Robot” button used at the 1980 Democratic National Convention (1980.0638).
Patricia R. McFarland: 4 sterling silver plates, a sterling silver tray, cuff links, a watch, a mechanical pencil, a portfolio, a wooden clapper, brass bookends, and a chair used by former Attorney General Homer Stille Cummings (1980.0471).
Martha Elaine Schmelz McGee: tote bag, “Welcome to Detroit Republican National Convention” (1980.0515).
Doug and John McGraw: photograph album containing pictures of naval vessels, ca. 1898-1900 (1981.0201).
Dorothy W. Mcllroy, in memory of Malcolm S. McIlroy: materials related to Malcolm S. MclIlroy and his Fluid-network Analyzer (316525.00).
Elsa K. MclIlwain: Confederate pardon by President Andrew Johnson and an oath of allegiance to U.S. government by Andrew Fudge (1980.0627).
Beatrice Hale McIntosh: forgage cap, model 1872 (317952.00).
Ramona Miller McKean: nineteenth-century photograph album (1981.0175).
Mcp Facilities Corp. (through Charles S. Rockwell): Moloch power hammer (1980.0952).
George Meany Center for Labor Studies (through Genevieve M. Lutz): 4 booklets, 3 buttons, 2 posters, a phonograph record, lapel pin, badge, sticker, ashtray, matchbox, totebag, and a handbill (1980.0298).
Vada K. Meehan: photomechanical post card and photographic post card (1981.0193).
Edith R. Meggers: 442 miscellaneous manufactured objects, 18 silk fireman’s ribbons, 1 lock nut, 21 musical instruments, 20 ceramic and glass items, 60 mechanical specimens including typewriters, phonographs, and clocks, 725 objects of political memorabilia, 156 military objects including swords, bayonets, and cartridges, 15 pairs of spectacles and safety goggles, 6 physical science objects including glass diffraction gratings, gas discharge tubes, and specimens of fused glass, 38 electrical objects including batteries, insulators, and receivers, 25 clothing specimens, 51 medals, 1 lapel pin, 10 transportation items including vehicle plates, wagon spring, and lamps, 27 textile-related objects, 1,493 photographic history objects (314637.00).
Joseph F. and Mary E. Melfi, Jr.: 198 Tupper Pharmacy artifacts (1980.0698).
Sarah P. Merrill: woman’s hat, 1935-1939 (1980.0694).
Andrew J. Metz: collection of mint and used U.S. and foreign postage stamps, numbering 6,379 objects (1980.0408).
Mary Shipman Mian: jewelry owned by Mrs. Franklin Pierce (1980.0326).
Dewey Michaels: 4 theater backdrops and a director’s chair (1981.0041).
Olive H. Milgate: photograph of USS Leviathan, WW I (1981.0235).
Gerald and Judith Miller: banner, ‘““‘wELCOME HOME HOSTAGES” (1981.0220).
Herman Miller Incorporated (through Max De Pree): furniture designed by
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 555

<<<Page: 566>>>

Charles and Ray Eames and manufactured by the donor (1981.0421, 1980. 0554).
Mississippi Department of Agriculture and Commerce (through Jim Buck Ross): middle buster walking plow (320029.00).
Principality of Monaco, The Postal Administration: 122 mint stamps and souvenir sheets from Monaco (1980.0735).
Patsy Montana: cowgirl costume worn by the donor (1981.0389).
Clarence H. and Frances Keirn Moore, in the name of the family of Maj. Gen. Donald J. Keirn p.s.M., 0.B.E.: surveyor’s compass (1980.0809).
Nancy C. Moore: Gothic-Revival table, ca. 1850-1857 (1980.0881).
George L. Morena, in memory of Thomas J. Morena, Jr.: U.S. Army shaving kit, WW I period (1980.0837).
Gladys Morgan: U.S. Navy Yeoman F uniform clothing, insignia, and buttons, and a WWI photograph (1980.0568).
James V. and Wanda E. Morris: original photograph of the uss Nashville, ca. 1900 (1981.0117).
Richard J. Morris, M.D.: Spectro-chrome, 1925 (1980.0529).
Walter Morvay: Agfa Ansco rollfilm box camera (1981.0174).
Mosaic Press (through Miriam D. Irwin): 2 miniature books on Carter and Reagan (1981.0040).
Betty Jean Mowbray: U.S. Navy collar insignia of a Lieutenant, Senior Grade (1981.0476); a rifle cleaning cord with strong attachment and a distinctive insignia (1981.0542).
Frances M. Rudell Moyer: 2 watches, 2 brooches, a necklace, cuff buttons, and a jewelry box (1980.0010).
William B. Mozey: 23 “sweetheart” lapel pins and a cigarette holder, WW II period (1977.0876); U.S. Army razor set and a photograph of a soldier (1979.0694).
René Miiller: collection of postage stamps issued for use in occupied territories at the end of WW I (1981.0042).
Mrs. John H. Murray: Rockingham glazed pitcher, blue spatter earthenware sugar bowl, earthenware toby jug, vase and 2 cache pots, 2 red earthenware plates, a redware pitcher, a brown earthenware pitcher, a miniature red earthenware pitcher and a yellow-glazed mold marked “John Bell,” a whiteware teapot, an ironstone butter chip, 2 white pressed-glass dishes, a pressed-glass plate, a pink glass pitcher, and a pressed-glass “Savings Bank” (1980.0083).
Museum of the American China Trade: 1 eighteenth century violincello made by Benjamin Crehore, Milten, Massachusetts (1981.0030).
National Abortion Rights Action League (through Jan Ryan): 2 buttons, a fan, a handout, and a newsletter (1981.0266).
National American Woman’s Suffrage Association: written materials relating to Susan B. Anthony (1980.0810).
National Postal Museum of London (through John N. Davis): 1 sheet and loose stamps of Great Britain (1981.0115).
National Society Children of the American Revolution (through James H. Johnson): 1 Nottingham lace shawl, a white cotton bonnet with lace, a beadwork needlecase, and a wooden glove darner (1980.0562).
Mr. and Mrs. C. Turner Nearing: philatelic chess collection (1981.0267); philatelic music collection (1981.0268).
Mortimer Neinken: group of Hundi notes (1981.0497).
John Nesbit, in memory of Hal Nesbit: vulcanized rubber check made in 1933 by Hal Nesbit (1980.0985).
Government of The Netherlands Postal and Telecommunications Services: mint stamps and souvenir sheet from The Netherlands (1980.0736).
Nevada Federation of Republican Women (through Mary E. Slocum): cow-
556 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 567>>>

boy hat worn by delegates from Nevada at the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0510).
State University of New York at Buffalo, School of Medicine (through Dr. John Naughton and Dr. Robert L. Brown): electronic stimulating and recording unit (1981.0186).
The New York Stock Exchange (through J. E. Buck): “Trading Post #13,” built in 1930 (1981.0188).
Government of New Zealand: 23 recently issued postal papers of New Zealand (1980.0745).
Hayes A. Newby and Nannette Newby Warner: Civil War items including hardtack, tintype, canteen, and tin cup (1979.0916).
Raymond F. Newman: 4 circus lithographs (1980.0902).
News-Press (through Susan Bennett): 1 newspaper, News-Press, extra with headlines “Hostages Released” (1981.0410).
Government of Niue, Ministry of Post Office: 58 recent postal papers of the Government of Niue (1981.0196).
Norcliff Thayer, Inc. (through James H. Howe III): papier maché ‘Pot of Gold” and “Wheel of Fortune” from the “Tums Pot o’Gold Radio Show” broadcast, 1939-41 and 1946 (1980.0437).
Government of Northern Cook Islands, Penrhyn Post Office: 13 recent postal issues of Penrhyn (1981.0153).
Northwest Energy Employment Development (through Betty Challinor, Dr. George Farag, and Charles F. Woods): 1 banner used in the 1980 National Democratic Convention (1980.0670).
The O’Brien Corporation (through James A. McCormick): O’Brien’s T.T.O. enamel (1981.0517).
Dorothy C. and Frank A. O’Clair: Caloroil oil burner, compressor unit and relief valve, ca. 1923 (1980.0486).
Genevieve I. O'Leary: 2 iron bedstead footpieces and 1 bed frame (1980.0342).
John “Buck” O’Neil: Kansas City Monarchs jacket emblem (1981.0120).
Elizabeth Durfee Oberst: woman’s handbag, ca. 1930 (1979.0670).
One Nation Under God (through John Golan and Carol I. Owens): poster from the Washington for Jesus rally (1980.0739).
Orange County Health Department (through John McGarry, M.D.): 2 infant hand-scales, 1 Bright-Line haemacytometer, 1 Yankee certified blood diluting pipette, 1 suction apparatus for TB testing, and a “Vim” Forsbeck needle rack for group immunization (1980.0851).
Eugene Ostroff: a ‘“Pronto!’”” Polaroid Land Camera (1980.0780).
Elias P. Pantazopoulos: “Old Heidelberg Rathskeller’” softball team jersey (1981.0212).
Jack Pardue: “KX County Washington D.C.” poster (1981.0060).
Charles H. Parks: 4 electric motors (1980.0847).
Albert Eide Parr: Norwegian rifle, Norwegian semi-automatic pistol, and U.S. Army sleeping bag (1981.0019).
Harry L. Parrott, Jr.: 12 Edison phonorecord cylinders in their original cartons (1980.0912).
Charlene Pasco: tennis racket (1981.0211).
Martha M. Patrick: 3 fire extinguishers (1980.0582); cocktail shaker and 8 matching cups made by Bernard Rice’s Sons, Incorporated, patented on May 13, 1924 (1980.0954).
Andrew L. “Pat” Patterson: baseball sliding pads (1981.0128).
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 12 pieces of sports and recreational equipment and a baseball program (1981.0054); 9 panels of embroidered netting embroidered with linen thread (1981.0075); golf and tennis equipment (1980.0022); 8 pieces of sailing clothing (1980.0639).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 557

<<<Page: 568>>>

Harry J. Patton: “Ronald McDonald” hand puppet and a marionette ballet —
dancer (1981.0059); 6 photographic prints, a photographic price chart, and an electronic flash gun (1981.0195).
Robert E. Peary, Jr.: an illuminated parchment signed by President Taft and 8 medals presented to Admiral Robert E. Peary (1981.0471).
Marvin P. Pedroli: 10 objects used in the exhibit Bucktaroos In Paradise, including articles of clothing, kitchenware, and tools (1981.0087). Pellon Corporation: 10 die-cut battery separators, 9 fabric samples, 4 filter
samples, 4 cylinders, 3 floor pads, and 2 mask samples (1980.0538).
Augusta H. Petrone: sash, “Dutch’s Dollies” worn at the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0863).
The Pfaltzgraff Company (through Louis J. Appell Jr.) and The Gardner Miller Fund: portrait bust of George Washington, ca. mid-nineteenth century (1980.0659).
Edward M. and Kathleen P. Pflueger: pair of Worcester soft-paste porcelain figures, ca. 1770 (1979.1222).
Roger Pineau: 1 motion picture camera and 2 still cameras with accessories (1981.0313); Japanese Navy duty pouch (1980.0865).
Albert John Pirner: “BARcO” gas-powered tamper (1981.0031).
University of Pittsburgh, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Department of Biological Sciences (through Professor R. A. McConnell): Monroe calculator (1980.0255).
The Plain Dealer (through William C. Barnard and Robert H. Snyder): 3 printing plates from the front page of the newspaper, The Plain Dealer (1980.0913).
Francis M. Plummer: 3 US Silver Certificates, Series of 1899 (1980.0944).
Mrs. Muriel and Dr. Victor Polikoff: 2 plates and 1 cup and saucer set with “Liberty” motif made by Josiah Wedgewood and Sons, Ltd., ca. 1917-1929 (1980.0790).
Douglas W. and Stanley V. Pope, in memory of Arthur Joseph Pope: 5 submachine guns (1981.0034).
Julia C. Powell: overseas cap and ribbon, pair of long drawers, a Naval Digest, U.S. Coast Guard officer’s cap, 2 white covers, blue cap cover, khaki cap cover, white uniform trousers, blue service dress uniform coat, and blue frock coat (1981.0321).
Priscilla Davis Prather, in memory of Virginia Davis: A white-on-white embroidered counterpane, ca. 1812 (1980.0719).
Precision Gauge & Tool Company (through James A. McCormick): Fineness grind gauge (1981.0514).
Presidential Inaugural Celebration with Love (through Dr. James E. Johnson and Dr. Orv Owens): 7 tickets, 3 name tags, an invitation, schedule, envelope, letterhead, program, and a car pass from the Religious Presidential Inaugural Celebration with Love (1981.0101).
Presidential Inaugural Committee—1981 (through Terry D. Hirz): jelly beans officially approved by the 1981 Presidential Inaugural Committee (1981. 0260); (through J. L. Wallace): 58 objects from the 1981 presidential inauguration (1981.0279).
Pullman Incorporated (through Rosemary A. Mazon): berth front, “Bird in the Bush” pattern (1980.0839).
Mrs. Ernst W. Puttkammer: a collection of 681 German stamps (1980.0493).
Radcliffe College, The Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America (through Eva Moseley): 19 pamphlets, 9 leaflets, 3 posters, a newspaper, a campaign card, and aninvitation (1981.0349).
Radio City Music Hall (through Patricia H. Robert): usher’s uniform from Radio City Music Hall (1981.0493).
558 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 569>>>

Rafshoon Communications (through Joseph M. Books III): 43 television tapes from the 1980 Carter campaign for president (1981.0053).
June Martens Ramsey: Woman’s garnet brooch and earrings, ca. 1860-1879 (1980.0756).
Rapid City Public Schools (through Charles A. Lindly): Basketball uniform (1981.0494).
Frank H. Rath: red earthenware covered-bridge coin bank (1980.0450).
Mark M. Ravitch: 63 stapling instruments (1979.1092).
Ruth D. Ray: materials related to J. J. Ray’s Multi-tester & Polygraph (1981. 0248).
Realist Incorporated (through George Walker): Stereo Realist camera and viewer owned and used by General Eisenhower (1981.0191).
John A. Rehor: collection of photographic negatives documenting the rightof-way of the Wheeling & Lake Erie Railway (1981.0223).
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Department of Chemistry (through Dr. Fred W. Billmeyer, Jr.): 2 colorimeters, 1 colorimeter with accessories, a reflectometer, a galvanometer, a reference standard, an integrator, and a tintometer with a box of glass standards (1981.0496).
Christopher and Richard E. Repetti, in memory of Ernest Repetti: ‘Hamilton Packers” football uniform (1981.0472).
Rexnord, Inc. (through D. Taylor and E. W. Mentzer): Nordberg collection of archival documents (1979.1249).
Mrs. Sula M. Rhiger: U.S. Navy uniform worn by the donor during WW I (1980.0313).
Harry David Richards: woman’s headdress, ca. 1925 (1980.0545).
Oscar W. Richards: Interference microscope with accessories, an arc lamp, a transformer, a box of reagents, and a microscope slide (1980.0468).
Oleita Richter, in memory of William H. Goebel: crocheted white-cotton bedspread (1980.0501).
George Rinsland: 2 newspapers, The Morning Call, from Allentown, Pennsylvania (1980.0584) ; 1 badge, “HuntiNcTON Colonial Ladies—July 4th 1903” (1980.0733).
Ralph Rinzler: Dutch medwinterhorn (1981.0422).
Florence S. Robbins, in memory of Eugene Beauharnais Robbins: boy’s cap, 1910-1915 (1980.0758).
Frank Roberts & Sons Inc. (through Fred Roberts): squibb-making machine and a box of empty squibbs (1980.0309).
Edwin K. Robinson: “Raggedy Ann” doll, ca. 1931, and a pastry blender patented in 1929 (1981.0168).
Captain Ray M. Robinson: Lafayette’s umbrella (1980.0765).
Joseph F. and Rosemary L. Robrecht: 227 Pharmaceuticals, 21 patent medicines, 17 medicine and pharmacy bottles, and 4 pharmaceutical objects and instruments (1981.0227).
Francis D. Roche: Virginia Commission of Game and Inland Fisheries pamphlet (1981.0454).
Peter T. Roche: “Go Redskins/Go Navy” bumpersticker (1981.0500).
William H. Rogers: folding pocket Kodak camera (1981.0314).
William D. Rogosin: baseball autographed by Negro League players (1981. 0180).
Pauline M. Rojas: footed Chinese porcelain plate, late eighteenth century (1979.1076).
Anne W. and John W. Rollins, Jr.: 10 puppets, 2 souvenir programs, and a bolt of puppet print fabric (1980.0910).
George M. Rosenstein: broom holder (1981.0412).
Rubin Brothers Waste Company (through Bruce S. Bazelon and Edward
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 559

<<<Page: 570>>>

Rubin): 6 pillow cases, a scarf, a hat, and a flour sack (1980.0573); U.S. Navy, Coast Guard and Marine Corps enlisted men’s uniform items (1980. 0715); 14 U.S. Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard uniform items (1981. 0236); (through Edward Rubin); U.S. Marine Corps sweater and necktie (1980.0716); 3 U.S. Marine Corps utility caps (1981.0124).
Edward Rubin: 4 belts, 2 neckerchiefs, 2 street signs, a metal slide, and an armband (1979.0654) ; Woodsmen of the World Tunic (1981.0495).
Fred J. Rutherford: 5 baseball tickets (1980.0432).
Bessie C. Sanborn: fire hat with wick lamp (1980.0978).
Dr. Arnold J. Sattler: Austrian silver 100 schillings commemorating the bicentennial celebration of the Burgtheater in Vienna, 1976 (1979.1109).
Anne Marshall and Fredric Brice Saunier: print titled, Braque Intarsia, made by Fredric Brice Saunier (1981.0071).
Melinda H. and Thomas S. Scarano: wooden box containing stereoscope and 83 glass transparencies of ww I subjects (1981.0237).
Carl H. Scheele: 39 U.S. and foreign stamps, 6 covers, 4 First Day Covers, 1 souvenir sheet, and 1 souvenir card (1981.0207).
Elbert O. Schlotzhauer: Slater’s hammer (1980.0622).
Esther Fowler Schmalz, in memory of George Fowler: bicycle uniform, ca. 1884 (1980.0165).
Robert J. Schurk: radio guide, 1937 (1980.0840).
Science Research Council (through J. E. Hailstone): Atlas Mark I computer components (317839).
Robert Louis Scone, Sr.: “Right On Ronnie” T-shirt (1980.0507).
Arthur Secunda: “Vesuvius” series of 28 prints and original etched plates (1981.0070).
Security Symbols (through Marcia L. Smith): A bumper sticker and a pillowcase with legend “We're ready for Teddy” (1981.0052).
Service Offset Printing Co. (through John R. Slavin): linotype broach (1980. 0443).
Leo Seybold: memorabilia associated with the service men’s voting program during ww 1 (1980.0914).
Carl Sferrazza: button, “Jerry and Linda in 1980” (1980.0570).
Lynn Shapiro: blue felt pennant (1980.0766).
Julius Sharat: collection of 50 plastic objects representing the history of the plastics industry (1981.0264).
Adeline K. Shertzer: alto saxophone made by H. Selmer & Company, Paris, and played by Hymie Shertzer, member of the original Benny Goodman Orchestra (1980.0915).
Jonathan R. Shils: metal sign, symbol of Old South (1980.0899).
Isabel Shults: plate, finger bowl and stand, champagne glass, and 2 wine glasses made by the Salviati Glass Works (1979.1172).
Ruth W. Shure: collection of 25 pieces of ww 11 memorabilia (1981.0473).
Jose Silva, Jr., and Jose S. Silva: a bronze nineteenth century planking nail (1979.1140).
Joseph S. Simms: 3 buckles, 3 brooches, 2 necklaces, and a headdress (1981. 0083).
A. C. Sims: section of a steam turbine-runner (1981.0360).
Charlotte W. and Edgar Sittig: 68 samples of homespun fabric (1980.0453).
N. G. Slater Corporation (through Robert Slater): button issued for the occasion of the peace mission on November 19 and 20, 1977, between Israel and Egypt (1980.0768).
Betty S. and Richard G. Smith: Charles Frodsham chronograph (1981.0339).
Beulah H. Smith: a black-glazed earthenware jug in the form of a swimming duck (1981.0064).
Edith H. Smith: double deck of Kem playing cards, ca. 1930 (1980.0880).
560 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 571>>>

Dr. Edward J. Smith: Remington hand-operated adding machine (314592).
Hilton L. Smith: “Chicago Ground Rules” card, “Brooklyn National League” ticket, “Monarchs vs. Cuban Stars” ticket, and a telegram to Hilton Smith (1981.0355).
Nell Wilson Smith: clinical thermometer (1981.0114).
Stephen P. and Virginia B. Smith: drafting tool and instruction booklet, 1905-1915, and a measure list, ca. 1907 (1980.0883); 6 embroidered panels, a panel of printed cotton velveteen rectangles, a piece of fabric, a painted pattern for embroidery, a religious card, and a printed fabric cigarette packet (1980.0883).
Smithsonian Institution, Business Management Office, Mail Order Division (through Kathleen Craig): woman’s brooch (1981.0028); Product Development (through Anne McClellen Miller): porcelain pitcher, reproduction of a pitcher manufactured by Tucker & Hulme, 1828 (1980.0707); 6 printed cotton fabric samples (1980.0789); Museum Shops (through Richard Griesel): reproduction of Stephen Decatur ring (1981.0312).
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, National Museum of American History Bureau Library (through Ellen Wells): bound folio of 28 prints titled, Choice Old Engravings (1980.0800).
John W. Snyder, Sr., and Family: barbed-wire display board (1978.2385).
Ray E. Snyder, on behalf of Marshall Snyder and Family: Army song book, 1941 (1981.0150).
Society for the Preservation of Long Island Antiquities (through Robert B. MacKay): Trump Brothers “Fleetwood” scroll saw, wooden toolbox, 28 sawblades, 6 paper patterns, and an assortment of wooden workpieces (1981.0061).
The Society of Medalists (through Donald A. Schwartz): 2 bronze medals issued by The Society of Medalists (1980.0958).
Gail E. Solomon: model of Winchester Blacksmith Shop (1980.0949).
Joseph C. Sonntag: blade from 1927 Mercury Vapor Turbine (1980.0324).
G. Frances Souther: 2 authographed photographic portraits of John Souther, dated 1909 and 1911 (1981.0216).
Southern Labor Archives (through Leslie S. Hough): 10 labor badges (1980. 0618).
Charles M. Spearman: Selective Service System card, 1970 and Registration Certificate, 1973 (1980.0505).
Rita Pond Spence: Steuben “Gold Aurene” glass vase (1980.0419).
Jock A. Spencer: 2 insignia and a black beret (1979.0513).
Robena Moses Spencer: miner’s safety lamp (1981.0012).
Sperry Rand Corporation, Sperry Division (through Kenneth H. Chase): 16 gyroscopes and 1 artificial horizon (1981.0386).
Sperry-Sun Inc. (through M. Lee Murrah): original Sperry-Sun gyroscope (1981.0297).
Janet H. Sprickman: toy furniture sets of metal with cardboard rooms, 1929-31 (1980.0497).
Ruth St. Denis Foundation Inc. (through Karoun Tootikian): 2 posters of Ruth St. Denis and 1 silk scarf (1980.0796).
St. Gregory the Great Roman Catholic Church (through Reverend Francis P. Kilcoyne): 1 rack-type dryer labeled, “Hygenic Gas Dryer,” ca. 1900 (1980. 0418).
ae Harvey G., and Norman Stack: nineteenth-century silver bar from California (1979.1052); collection of mostly foreign paper currencies (1979. 1053); collection of foreign stock and bond certificates (1979.1056); group of 3 foreign coins and medals (1979.1061); ancient aurei bearing portraits of Roman emperors of the first century A.D. and circulated in India (1979.1062); ancient Roman bronze medallion struck in the names of
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 561

<<<Page: 572>>>

Alexander and Mammaea (1979.1063); group of ancient Greek coins (1979. 1064); group of 8 ancient Roman Republican bronze coins (1979.1065); group of ancient Roman silver and bronze coins (1979.1066); ancient gold stater of Callatis (1979.1068); tetradrachm struck at Clazomenae (1979. 1069); specialized collection of Depression scrip (1979.1070); medallion struck in the name of the Roman Emperor Gordianus III at Perinthus (1979.1098); group of ancient coins from Asia Minor (1979.1099); group of 3 late Roman bronze coins (1979.1100); bronze coin struck in the name of Aelia Zenonis (1979.1101); large silver “bracteates” from India (1979.1108); group of political medals by Karl Goetz (1979.1124); dies and hub for German necessity coinage of the ww 1 period (1979.1125); 3 steel dies for medals (1979.1126); group of dies for medals by Karl Goetz (1979.1127); master hubs and dies by Karl Goetz for coin patterns (1979.1128); U.S. medals, medallions, and plaquettes designed by Victor D. Brenner (1979. 1129); group of U.S. notes, checks, and related historical material (1979. 1189); 4 medals and 3 framed vignettes relating to George Washington (1979.1190); group of French medals and plaquettes (1979.1191); collection of German historical and art medals (1979.1192); banker’s sorter for U.S. gold coins (1979.1193); original Charles Wesley Dickinson material encompassing documentation and examples of work produced on Dickinson’s banknote engraving lathe (1979.1194); historical gold bar and “Veld Blank” from South Africa, 1901 (1979.1195); 2 historical foreign gold medals (1979.1196); gold life saving medal of the Benevolent (1979.1197); Japanese sixteenth-century gold koban (1979.1198); plaster plaque portraying George Washington (1979.1199); collection of Tabaristan silver coins struck in the name of Yahya, al-Harashi, and Sulaiman (1980.0889); specialized collection of half-dirhems struck in the names of Jaris, Macadd, and Hani (1980.0890) ; specialized collection of silver coins, struck in the name of Muagatil of Tabaristan (1980.0892); specialized collection of silver half-dirhems, struck in the name of the Abbasid Governor of Tabaristan Hani (1980.0895); cut-out bronze “strip stock” and planchets used in the medal-manufacturing process (1980.0901); Star Mining Company gold ingot (1980.0921); gold bar of the U.S. Assay Office in New York (1980.0922); 4 U.S. commemorative medals and 1 Belgian medal (1980.0929); specimen printing for back of five-dollar demand note of 1861 (1980.0930); proofs for the front and back of one-hundred-dollar, three-year interest-bearing notes (1980.0931); specimen printings for fifty-dollar two-year interest-bearing notes (1980.0932); group of ancient Roman aurei (1980.0933); cast bronze medal portraying President Harry S. Truman, 1949 (1980.0936); Roman medallion struck in the name of Emperor Commodus (1980.0937); presentation volume prepared by Bureau of Engraving and Printing (1980.0940); U.S. gold certificate for ten thousand dollars (1980.0941); Eagle Mining Company gold ingot (1980. 0920).
The Standard-Times (through Donald J. Clifford): printing press, ca. 1840 (1980.0955).
Daniel P. Stanton: Boy Scouts of America knapsack (1980.0299).
Esther L. Stanton: U.S. Army equipment consisting of 3 canteen covers, 3 canteens, 2 canteen cups, 1 pistol belt, and 1 cartridge belt (1978.2101); ww 1 helmet liner (1980.0279).
Maria J. Stein: 2 grain sacks and a hand-woven towel (1980.0502).
R. E. Steiner: 62 phonorecords (1980.0950).
Peter G. Steinhauser: 3 gum-bichromate prints (1981.0482).
Mrs. Robert B. Stephens: 16 trade cards, 3 dye receipes, 1 lucet, 1 drizzling tool and a tambour needle (1981.0113); pieced-work quilt, needlework sample book, and 2 Jacquard woven bookmarks (1981.0417).
562 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 573>>>

J. P. Stevens & Co., Inc. (through Les Rossi): 4 automobile upholstery fabric samples (1980.0541).
W. B. Stevens: Merrill’s Marauders shoulder sleeve insignia, WWII (1979. 0817).
Virginia Stickley: woman’s curling iron (1981.0065).
Olga Y. Stillwell: 2 pairs of spectacles (1980.0467).
John N. Stine: carrying case for sniper scope used on German sniper rifles during ww 11 (1980.0854).
T. E. Stivers: Georgia state delegations button produced and worn at the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0560).
Philip Stoddard: 44 bobbins, a bobbin lace border, a lace pillow, a lace handkerchief, a pillow horse, a twig, and an embroidered infant’s cap (1980.0685).
James D. Stokoe: collection of linen tracings from the Hydraulic-Press Brick Company of Saint Louis, Missouri (1980.0807).
Storz Instrument Company (through Robert Blankemeyer): 4 Forceps, 2 needle holders, needle, canula, scissors, erisiphake, trephine, spoon, loop, and keratome (1980.0347); (through B. Charles Bono): 4 pairs of scissors, 2 keratomes, 2 sclerotomes, 1 anchor (1980.0848).
George D. Stovall: “Zoomar” variable-focal length lens (1981.0017).
Lewis H. Strauss: ww I draft bowl capsule (1979.0793).
Sam Streeter: baseball (1981.0130).
Sheryl Swed: 60 objects from the 1980 Copenhagen World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women (1980.0593).
Government of Sweden Postal Administration: recent postal papers of Sweden (1980.0729).
Melodie Sweeney-Kosmacki: 1968 hair curler set (1981.0069).
John R. Switzer: wagon steering gear (1980.0579).
Robert H. Taylor: overcoat worn by Richard Nixon during the 1973 Inaugural Parade and a photograph of President and Mrs. Nixon at the White House (1980.0824).
Tewksbury Antiques (through Mr. and Mrs. J. Douglas Wiss), The Alfred Duane Pell Fund, and The Gardner-Miller Fund: earthenware sgraffito plate, ca. 1823 (1980.0180).
Texas Heart Institute (through Denton A. Cooley, M.D.): mechanical heart used in world’s first application of an artificial heart (1978.1002).
Virginia D. Thibodeau: 2 buttons and a T-shirt designed by the donor to be used in the 1980 Republican Presidential Campaign (1980.0585).
Mrs. Stuart W. Thomas: British officer’s gorget, 1800-1830 (1980.0247).
Thomason Industries (through Martin Stecklow): Yellow ribbon rosette used to decorate the Washington, D.C., parade route for the hostages’ return from Iran (1981.0159).
Thomasville-Thomas County Chamber of Commerce (through Lloyd Eckberg): a political mug (1980.0710).
Fred C. Thompson: U.S. Colt’s magazine rifle (1981.0329).
James R. Thompson: a button and badge from the Illinois Delegation at the 1980 Republican National Convention (1980.0713).
Leonora Gill Thompson: 5 cartes-de-visites and 2 photographs (1980.0799).
Carol Thomssen: 2 campaign bumper stickers (1981.0050).
Governor Richard L. Thornburgh (through Mike Kraus): 2 Pennsylvania state delegation buttons (1980.0567).
Evelyn Tidball: metal box, “Imperial Brand Ginger,” containing an embroidery design-stamping kit (1980.0500).
Jeffrey W. Tinsley: Charlie McCarthy, ventriloquist dummy (1980.0977).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 563

<<<Page: 574>>>

Robert E. Todd: 4 original patents for the inventions of John Wells (1981. 0252).
Paul A. Tolovi: a Joint Services Commendation medal (1977.0485); a Joint Services Commendation medal with lapel pin, pendant with ribbon, case, and a Civilian Defense Communications Agency cloth patch (1980.0660).
Trans-Lux Corporation (through Albert Boyars): two rolls of yellow ticker tape for use in the N.Y. city parade honoring the returning hostages from Iran (1981.0491).
Robert Jeffery Trimmer: journal, logs, diary, maps, booklets, and original photographs of the Spanish-American War, kept by Yeoman Ben D. McGee (1981.0118).
Trinity United Methodist Church (through Lawrence H. Harris): woven church-hanging with valance (1980:0860).
Percival Arthur Tripp: 10 photographic postcards (1980.0948).
James R. and Sara Turnbull: wood canteen, early nineteenth century (1979. 0036).
Lillian and Milton Turner: 4 Daum glass plates, 1 porcelain plate, and 1 desk piece (1979.1145); 3 salts, 3 vases, a teapot, sugar bowl and cream pitcher (1980.0791).
Stephen R. Turner: glass paperweight with engraved head of Albert Einstein made by Vicke Lindstrand, 1963 (1980.0093).
George D. Tuttle: 3 planes, 1 hand saw, and 1 commander (1981.0397).
Johanna Ullmann: 2 pattern books, 1895 (1979.0074).
Marjorie E. Ulsamer: off-white cotton and navy-blue wool overshot coverlet (1980.0373).
Underwood & Underwood Illustration Studios (through L. M. Nowak): stereo, glass, and film negatives (1981.0507).
William Underwood Company (through George C. Seybolt): 3 canning devices (320020.00).
United Nations Postal Administration: 111 mint United Nations stamps, singles and multiples (1981.0178).
Unknown: 7 campaign buttons (1980.0635).
U.S. Department of Commerce, Maritime Administration (through R. J. Blackwell): 245 objects from the luxury liner S.S. United States, including furniture, china, glassware, silverware, murals, and life preservers (1978. 2219).
U.S. Department of Defense, Defense Supply Agency, Defense Property Disposal Service (through George R. Beam): Whitneyville armory rifle (1979. 0900). Department of the Air Force: M1943 Russian light machine gun (1980.0874). Department of the Army, Army Natick Research and Development Command: pair of canvas leggings, 1941 (1981.0218). Fort Benjamin Harrison Museum: 2 U.S. Marine Corps equipment-carrying straps (1979. 0219). Fort Jackson Museum: U.S. Marine Corps field pack, 1941 (1978. 0106). The Institute of Heraldry (through Robert L. Burton): 34 distinctive military insignia (1979.0235); U.S. shoulder sleeve insignia (1979.0608); 41 shoulder sleeve insignia (1980.0039). The Pentagon: 2 U.S. Army promotion certificates and 1 appointment certificate (1981.0078). U.S. Army Center of Military History (through William F. Strobridge): Vogel Award medal, 1967 (1978.0961). U.S. Marine Corps reversible camouflage helmet covers (1979. 0805); (through Norman Carey): 5 bayonets (1979.0578). Historical Services Division: decorations for Cambodia, Indonesia, Korea, and the Philippines (1979.1156). U.S. Army Recruiting Command Headquarters: 18 U.S. Army posters (1981.0234). U.S. Army Transportation Museum (through Dennis Mroczowski): 3 steel helmets and 2 liners (1979.0116). Office of Deputy Secretary of Defense: 1 Belgian automatic rifle, 1 French Army revolver,
564 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 575>>>

and 1 Spanish Miquelet pistol (1981.0226). Office of the Secretary of Defense (through Gordon L. Bowlby): computer tape and reel (317980).
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health (through William M. Veasey): 5 spectrophotometers, a spectrophotofluorimeter, a fluorimeter, a photomultiplier attachment, and an analytical balance (1981.0535).
U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health: National Bureau of Standards microcite machine (314612).
U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Lower Colorado Dams Project Offices (through M. Coffry): 26 U.S. Colt revolvers (1981.0523).
U.S. Department of State, Office of the Chief of Protocol: Taiwan gold commemorative coin (1979.0650).
U.S. Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing: 52,093 certified proofs for national currency notes (297219); certified proofs of Silver Certificates, series of 1899 (297377); 277 proof printings of bonds, U.S. Treasury seals, and U.S. Treasury notes (297378); certified proofs of U.S. Treasury notes, series of 1869 through series of 1901 (297379); certified proof sheets of U.S. Treasury notes, certificates, bonds, and related materials (1978.0946); certified proof sheets of U.S. Treasury notes, certificates, bonds, and related materials (1978.0947); certified proof sheets of U.S. Treasury notes, certificates, bonds, and related materials (1978.0948); certified proof sheets of U.S. Treasury notes, certificates, bonds, and related materials (1978.0949); certified proofs for Federal Reserve notes and other financial documents (1980.0654). Bureau of the Mint (through Alan J. Goldman): a philatelic-numismatic commemorative, postmarked August 21, 1976, Los Angeles (1979.1037). Internal Revenue Service: Ruger new model “Blackhawk” revolver (1980.0105); U.S. Colt’s Mark IV semiautomatic pistol (1980.0581); M1875 Remington army revolver and an M1866 commemorative carbine (1980.0821); Colt’s “Texas Ranger” revolver and a Harrington & Richards revolver (1981.0340). Division, Communications and Records Management Branch, Office of Administrative Programs, Facilities Services (through Sarah J. Allen): 309 currency materials (1979.1185).
U.S. Legislative Branch, Library of Congress, Exchange and Gift Division (through Nathan R. Einhorn): group of American paper currencies and bonds (1979.1130) ; 3 Spanish orders and 3 U.S. medals (1979.1131).
U.S. Office of Personnel Management (through Leonard J. Bassoff): 3 plaques, a flag, and a photograph relating to the U.S. Civil Service Commission (1980.0520).
U.S. Postal Service, Office of International Postal Affairs (through Michael J. Regan): 1816 mint postage stamps of the world, 88 mint souvenir sheets, 7 mint booklets of Sweden, and 1 mint booklet of German Democratic Republic (1978.2392); 2,090 mint postage stamps, and 115 mint souvenir sheets of the world (1978.2397).
U.S. Postal Service, Stamp Management Branch: 8 uncut sheets of U.S. postage stamps (1981.0290).
The White House (through the Honorable J. P. Tumulty): a carved cane sent to President Wilson by Geo. F. Moon (1980.0764).
Anthony D. Valente: “Teddy Bear” examining table (1981.0343).
Henry P. and Wendy D. Van Gorder: 74 phonorecords (1980.0340).
Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen, on behalf of the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates: 1 engraving, View of the City of London Taken through One of the Centers of the Arches of the New Bridge at Westminster, by R. Parr (1981.0156).
Grace Hewitt Van Sickle: pension certificate, 1865 (1980.0819).
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 565

<<<Page: 576>>>

Catherine Pesch Vidano: 1 tilt-top table and sewing table made by Peter Glass c. 1890 (1980.0102).
Dorothy Anne and Joseph J. Virostek: 1 round campaign button, “ABC Anybody but Carter” (1980.0878).
Arthur B. Voorhees, Jr., and Margaret R. Voorhees: pack of cigarettes, “Sweet Caporal,” marked with tax stamp “Series of 1896” (1981.0519).
Noble M. Wade: 1 button, “Local Union 101, Greater Kansas City, AFL,” ca. 1947 (1980.0335).
Rachel Parker Fowler Wahl: a belt and silk fabric from an 1868 wedding dress and 2 pieces of silk fabric from a 1903 wedding dress (1980.0435).
Mrs. Frances E. Waldrop: 1860 booklet “On A New Photo-Lithographic Process” (1980.0630).
Charles Lynn Walker: water-polo ball and 14 water-polo caps (1980.0451).
Mort Walker: Beetle Bailey comic strip, artist’s original (1981.0221).
Janet and John P. Wallach: umbrella with the likeness of George Washington engraved on the handle, 1824—26 (1980.0526).
Bernard A. Wambsganss: a valentine (1981.0392).
William W. Warner: bumper sticker, “I Like Butts” (1980.0528).
C. Malcolm Watkins: 24 pieces of sheet music from 1866 to 1905 (1979.1154).
Joan Pearson Watkins: 11 potter’s coloring oxides, 4 kiln trivets, 1 lot of 38 stacking wedges (1979.0108); spectacles and case, basket, tea kettle, newspaper baby’s rattle, doll, fork and spoon, window shade, and stove lifter (1980.0569).
Lura W. Watkins (through C. Malcolm Watkins): woman’s cap, 1915-1925 (1979.0779).
Lucille McWane Watson: a miniature portrait attributed to Louis Lie PerinSalbroux, a red leather wallet with multiple pockets, containing several locks of hair and numerous handwritten notes by the original owner, William Short (1980.0762).
Marna H. Wattenberg: plain woven drapery with printed and applied design (1980.0788).
Walter C. Wattles: 4 bonds issued by the Confederate States of America (1979.0674).
Buel F. Weare: 1905 teddy bear (1981.0351).
Chester E. Weaver: headphones (1980.0281).
Thomas E. Weber: Wilson basketball, 1974 (1980.0682).
Weider Hardware Wholesalers (through Sam Weider): furnace ash sifter and clinker tongs (1981.0198).
Elina D. Weil: identification card, insignia, pendant, U.S. Army Certificate of Service, and U.S. Army separation record (1980:0199).
Wellesley College, Department of Physics (through Dr. Phyllis J. Fleming): electric egg, Holtz tube, canal ray tube, and an X-ray tube (1981.0043).
Elizabeth Baker Wells: flax-spinning wheel (1980.0885).
Wells, Rich, Greene, West Inc. (through Peter R. Johns): poster, “The 1979 Los Angeles International Film Exposition” (1980.0297).
Richard N. Weltz: a printing press with carrying case, and a tool kit (1980. 0730).
Wendell Fabrics Corporation (through Allan Silverman): “Grille Fabric” sample used in recording and music industries (1980.0536).
Donna Werner: “Donna Werner for State Representative” campaign button (1980.0474).
F. Hasso von der Weth: 2 tin medals commemorating private mint opening in Bremen, Germany, 1977 (1980.0956).
Geneva Whisnant: 1862 Oath of Allegiance to the U.S. Government
(1980,0280).
566 / Smithsonian Year 1981
——e—

<<<Page: 577>>>

J. H. White, Jr.: a Zeiss Ikon Ikomat rollfilm camera (1981.0225).
Robert L. White: comic books: 3 “Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea,” 2 “Navy: History and Traditions,” and 1 “Combat” (1980.0575).
Roger B. White: 1 book, Life of George Washington, and a premium certificate (1981.0261).
Mr. and Mrs. O. C. Whitehead: phonograph record of the “Gettysburg Address” and “Dixie’”” (1980.0605).
Thomas J. Wicker: songbook from the Harrison/Tyler campaign, dated 1840 (1980.0686).
Madeline Wilkinson: clergyman’s record of the date of Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s death (1981.0416).
Alta M. Williams: 8 pieces of fabric (1980.0365).
Frank H. Williams: motion picture camera, 2 detachable cranks, a lens, and 2 film magazines (1981.0224).
Jack F. Williams: 1 button, “The Bayou State-Reagan Country” (1981.0039).
Williams & Miller (through H. David Williams): 3 1980 presidential campaign buttons (1980.0784).
Mrs. Vivian Willner: 15 model military vehicles, guns, and soldiers (312428.00).
Willson Safety Products (through Donald C. Dahl): spectrophotometer, battery box, and a voltage regulator (1981.0420).
Rosalie E. Wilson, in the name of Jay Lee Wilson: 3 overshot coverlet fragments (1980.0372).
Dr. Paul Winchell: Ventriloquist’s puppet “Jerry Mahoney” (1981.0395).
Mrs. Bentley Windsor: poster with a portrait of MacArthur used at the 1952 Republican Convention (1980.0760).
Frank H. Winter: ticket with a portrait of Senator John F. Kennedy from the 1960 Democratic Convention (1980.0265).
H. Edward Winter. 2 report cards from Dunham School (1981.0457).
A. M. and Cul Kim Withers: specialized collection of Parthian silver and bronze coins, including some ancient Greek and Sassanian pieces (1979.1216).
Hanna O. Wood: Handwoven blanket (1980.0834).
George W. Workman: 78 police badges of Long Beach, California, 1924-1979 (1980.0853).
Charles T. Wright: U.S. Navy enlisted man’s white uniform including jumper, trousers and hat, worn by donor’s grandfather, ca. 1870 (1980.0574).
George H. Yeager: view camera with accessories, ca. 1896 (1979.0841).
Alfred C. Young: precision aligning level, pocket compass and an indenture of William J. Young for an apprenticeship as a mathematical instrument maker (1981.0511).
Dunya Chernenko Lit Zaitzeff (through Betty P. Callahan): collection of women’s headwear including 23 combs, 16 hairpins, and 1 hairclip (1980.0085).
Delfina Zatica: low stool with laced seat (1980.0295).
Naomi D. Zeavin: button, ““Virginia/GOP ’80/Mother of States & Statesman” (1980.0522).
Edward F. Zelan: Civilian Conservation Corps Company 1382 flag (1980.0509).
Donors of Financial Support
The Ambrose Monell Foundation New York State Historical Deluxe Check Printers Foundation Association Lilly Endowment, Inc. Philip Morris Incorporated Donors to the Collections Archives of American Art Mr. and Mrs. James Earl Carter, Jr. Mrs. R. Kirk Askew Thomas Gardiner Corcoran
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 567

<<<Page: 578>>>

Mrs. J. A. Cuaig Edward Peterson
Joseph C. Fox Mrs. Nancy Gesuele Peterson
Mrs. Lloyd K. Garrison Robert S. Pirie
Hadassah Mrs. Dikka Moen Rice
Leo Holub Marvin Sadik
Katie Louchheim Louis T. Safer
J. Willard Marriott, Jr., Mrs. Henry A. Schroeder Charitable Annuity Trust Dr. Frank Stanton
Walter F. Mondale Frederick S. Wight
Jonathan W. Peirce Charles H. Wood
Donors of Financial Support
Mrs. Robert Crooker The Music Performance Trust Funds The United States Department of Energy
Donor of Financial Support
United States Department of Labor/Arts Partnership OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE
Donors of Financial Support $10,000 AND ABOVE
Gary Hansen Robert C. Nelson J. Brooks Newbill
Lee B. Burnett
Thomas Halsted
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Kloecker John F. Olmstead
Mary L. Ripley
United States Department of Agriculture Garden Club
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES Donors to the Collections
Charles P. Alexander: the papers of Charles P. Alexander.
Frederick S. Barkalow, Jr.: the papers of Hartley H. T. Jackson.
Alice Scoville Barry: photocopies of correspondence of Alexander Dallas Bache.
Richard E. Blackwelder: taped reminiscences.
Shirley A. Briggs: records of the Audubon Naturalist Society of the Middle Atlantic States, Inc.
568 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 579>>>

Mrs. Robert A. Brooks: the papers of Robert A. Brooks. Jennie V. Emlong: the papers of Douglas Emlong; taped reminiscences. Ashley B. Gurney: the papers of Ashley B. Gurney. Patricia Knight: the papers of Harry H. Knight.
Mrs. J. C. Lee: the papers of Joseph Henry.
Lucile Quarry Mann: taped reminiscences.
Watson M. Perrygo: the papers of Watson M. Perrygo. Clayton E. Ray: taped reminiscences.
S. Dillon Ripley: the papers of S. Dillon Ripley.
M. C. Shelesnyak: the papers of Alexander Wetmore. Fred L. Whipple: the papers of Fred L. Whipple.
Audubon Naturalist Society of the Central Atlantic States, Inc.: the records of the Society. American Ornithologists’ Union: the records of the Union.
Donors to the Collection
Gus Abad: 7 volumes of Lamb’s Biographical Dictionary.
Richard E. Ahlborn: Museos de la Ciudad de Mexico.
W. H. Allen: 9 books on aeronautics.
Carolyn Amundson: The World Who’s Who of Women 1980.
Dorothy May Anderson: 24 books on African Art.
Susan Andrews: art books and catalogues.
Geoffrey Arend: publications on airports and air cargo.
Gloria Atkinson: The Faith of America.
Badische Anilin and Soda Fabrik: 9 volumes of Schriftenreihe.
Mrs. John Ballantyne: 2 books on the decorative arts and 1 art journal.
Ted Bayer: 11 journals.
Marion T. Beckwith: 4 French language books.
Silvio A. Bedini: books on the history of science.
Alice B. Beer: numerous art periodicals and books.
John W. Bodine: books and periodicals on aviation.
Ed Botwin: 12 art exhibition and sales catalogues.
Betty Bruch: Catalog of Reproduction of Handblown South Jersey Glass.
Mrs. Charles E. Bryant: Hymns for the Use of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
Mrs. Lester Cahn: 5 dictionaries and 2 publications on art.
Mrs. John Caroon: 12 books on Japanese art.
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard M. Center: An American Dictionary of the English Language.
David Wade Chambers: 9 books on the history of science and technology.
V. Clain-Stefanelli: Nederlandsch Genootschap voor Munt-en Penningkunde Jaarboek 1978-79.
L. Kimball Clark: The Master Builders: A Record of the Construction of the World’s Highest Commercial Structure.
Arthur Clarke: numerous journals.
Mrs. Desmond Cole. Synopsis of the Described Lepidoptera of North America, 1862.
Bruce Collette: “Serie Oceanologica, nos. 3-8”; “Serie Transformacion de la Naturaleza, no. 8.”
Richard Cowan: 3 books on botany.
Joan Toor Cummings: 93 auction catalogues, 29 assorted magazines, 45 price lists.
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Dante: art serials.
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 569

<<<Page: 580>>>

Elaine E. Dee: 9 books on art.
Gerald Deitzer: Symposium on Biological Effects and Measurements of Light Sources.
Giovanni Dellacasa: ‘’-De Quibusdam Insectis Sardiniae” 1 fascicle.
Lawrence R. de Treville: 4 books on flying.
Bern Dibner: 14 books on the history of science.
Louis and Ann Dorfsman: 27 designs for weather map symbols for cBs Tv news and 9 serials.
Bert Drake: Carbon Dioxide Effects Research and Assessment Program: Flux of Organic Carbon by Rivers to the Oceans.
H. Drubba: “Technische Sehenswurdigkeiten in Deutschland.”
Embassy of Switzerland: Volkskunst in der Schweiz.
Lucy Fellows: Now I Lay Me Down to Eat.
Richard Foote: 27 volumes on various subjects.
Doris Ford: 19 volumes on biological subjects.
Kurt Fredriksson: Regolith from the Highland Region of the Moon.
Richard Froeschner: 82 periodicals.
George Goddard: Goddard's Archives 1914-1980.
Craddock R. Goins, Jr.: 6 books on military history.
Anne Golovin: Culture Technique.
Elaine Golt Gongora: various art publications.
Jack Goodwin: 7 books.
Stephen L. Grossman: Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics.
Lawrence R. Hafstad: Papers, notes and correspondence relating to polonium.
Sybil Hamlet: Animals of the World.
James Hartney: aviation journals and books.
E. P. Henderson: “Papers and Proceedings of the 4th Annual International Mineralogical Association Conference.”
Ronald Heyer: 7 volumes.
Sarah A. Hickson: “Iron Worker.”
Hirohito, Emperor of Japan: On the Genus Ephelota.
Hoechst Aktiengesellschaft: 5 volumes of ““Dokumente aus Hoechst-Archiven.”
John Hoffman: Club Flags and Private Signals of Yacht Owners from Manning’s Register, 1897.
Helen Hollis: The Piano: A Mirror of American Life.
George A. Hoyem: The History and Development of Small Arms Ammunition.
Jacques Noel Jacobsen, Jr.: Regulations and Notes for the Uniform of the Army of the United States 1847.
William J. Jacquette: various journals and magazines.
Jane’s Publishing Company: Jane’s Encyclopedia of Aviation, volumes 1-5.
Mrs. Charles E. Johnson: various books and memorabilia on aviation.
J. Walter Thompson Co.: slides of advertisements of the Pepsi-Cola Company.
Robert C. Kaufmann: various magazines, catalogues, and books.
Judith King: The Living World: A Complete Natural History of the World’s Creatures, 1889.
E. G. Kirk: 4 books on air travel.
Don Kloster: 2 books on military history and equipment.
Gene Knight: 5 volumes on aeronautics.
Karl Krombein: various books and periodicals on entomology.
Ernest Lachner: List of Common and Scientific Names of Fishes from the United States and Canada.
Nelson F. Lavenere-Wanderley: 3 books on aeronautics published in Brazil.
Leo Lerman: various books on art.
Arnold D. Lewis: Aspects of Vertebrate History: Essays in Honor of Edward Harris Colbert.
Elbert Little: 3 books on botany.
570 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 581>>>

Robert Luck: various books on art.
Philip Lundeberg: 2 books on military history and maritime museums.
David Lundy: 2 books on platinum.
Joseph Marks: 41 art journals and 4 Tiffany catalogues.
Brian Mason: Proceedings of the Eleventh Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, Houston, Texas, March 17-21, 1980.
Otto Mayr: 16 books on mechanisms.
William G. Melson: The Tower of Pelee.
J. Jefferson Miller II: Conference on Historic Site Archaeology Papers, vols. 1 and 2; parts 1, 2, 4, and 6.
Robert P. Multhauf: 7 books on science and technology.
Susan Myers: Wednesday, June 10, 1981-10 A.M.
Sheila Nitzberg: various books on art.
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 33 books.
Pat Pemberton: Omega Lighting and Track Lighting.
Paul Perrot: America en Europa.
Marian Pettibone: Catalogue of the Chaetopoda in the British Museum.
The Philatelic Foundation: 3 books on philately.
Mary Walker Phillips: 3 books on arts and crafts.
Evelyn Raskopf: various publications.
Rhoda Ratner: Catalogue of Collections, Western Museum of Mining and Industry, Colorado Springs, Colorado.
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard J. Raymond: 362 titles.
Robert W. Read: 2 books.
Clyde Reed: Cumulative Index to the Bulletin and Journal of the Bromelian Society, volumes I-XXX (1951-1980).
Theodore H. Reed: The Olmec and their Neighbors.
Oscar W. Richards: various books and trade catalogues on microscopy.
Edward Rivinus: U.S. Army Cavalry Drill Regulations, 1902.
George S. Robinson: publications on space law.
Marion Ross: 13 children’s books.
Rodris Roth: Art and Business of Interior Decoration.
Curtis Sabrosky: 9 entomological journals.
Marvin S. Sadik: The Robert & Jane Meyerhoff Collection.
John T. Schlebecker: 3 copies of The Changing American Farm.
L. E. Schottland: Indentures of Apprenticeship, 1821-1823.
Senator Hugh Scott: National Register of Historic Places.
John Seidensticker: Javan Tiger and the Meru-Betiri Reserve.
Laurie and Germack Shepard: various books and publications.
Walter Shropshire, Jr.: various publications.
Isabel Shults: Mrs. Beeton’s Book of Household Management: A Guide to Cookery in All Branches, 1861, and 1 copy of Winnie-the-Pooh, signed by A. A. Milne.
Daniel Siefried: Child Yank, Over the Rainbow Division.
Mrs. Charles Siegried: 87 magazines.
George W. Sims: 12 books on anthropological subjects.
Israel G. Sohn: Atlas Photographique d’ Algerie.
Jessica Spitzer: Some mammalian life history information extracted from the National Zoological Park records (1965-1980).
Victor Springer: Butterfly and Angel Fishes of the World.
Toni Stabile: various publications.
Daniel J. Stanley: 3 journals.
Mrs. Leo Steinberg: Color Schemes for the Home & Model Interiors.
Hans Syz: books on ceramics.
Mr. and Mrs. Terry Tatman: Surgical Technique: A Textbook on Operative Surgery.
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 571

<<<Page: 582>>>

Lisa Taylor: numerous books on art.
Mrs. V. W. Vaurio: The Floricultural Cabinet and Florist’s Magazine. Robert Vogel: 2 books and 2 serials on engineering.
William B. Walker: 150 Years of Thonet: 1830-1980.
Deborah Warner: Perfect in Her Place.
Wilcomb E. Washburn: 12 books on various subjects.
George E. Watson: 3 books on ornithology.
Waldo R. Wedel: 1 book and 49 serials.
Ellen B. Wells: Traditional Medicine and The Family in Past Time. John H. White: 10 publications on transportation.
Donald Whitehead: Entomologische Nachrichten and Entomologische Berichte. Frank Winter: 9 books on aeronautics.
Lois Woods: numerous journals.
George Zug: 3 books on reptiles.
Richard L. Zusi: The Birds of Gambia.
Donors of Financial Support
The Armand Hammer Foundation
Eugenia Prendergast Foundation
Glenmede Trust
Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Foundation
Macdonald Stewart Foundation
Queene Ferry Coonley Foundation
Steelcase, Inc.
Trans World Airlines
United States Department of Interior, United States Geological Survey
United States Department of State, United States International Communication Agency
United Technologies Corporation
Whitehurst Imports
Donors of Support in Kind
Equitable Bag Company, Inc. Jet Propulsion Lab/Nasa Mead Paper
Donors to the Education Department
Batik and Weaving Supplier, Arlington, Massachusetts: 5 looms.
The Conservation Foundation, Washington, D.C.: 20 books.
Glass Manufacturers’ Federation, London: 16 books.
Embassy of Japan, Washington, D.C.: 20 maps.
Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co., Dubuque, Iowa: 20 books.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration: 60 posters and 140 publications.
Rizzoli International Publications, Inc., New York: 20 books.
Rockwell International, Downey, California: 100 books.
University of Tokyo Press, Japan: 20 books.
Vision, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts: 20 posters.
Donors of Financial Support
Anheuser-Busch Inc. ARTS D.C., a CETA program sponsored by the D.C. Commission on the Arts and
572 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 583>>>

Humanities and the United Labor Agency of Greater Washington and funded by the District of Columbia
Asia Society
Mrs. Beulah F. Cochran and family, in memory of Petsey Powell and Edwin M. Ashcraft
Eastern Airlines
The James Smithson Society
Mrs. Betty Llewellyn
Loews L’Enfant Plaza Hotel
Music Performance Trust Funds, American Federation of Musicians, Local 161-710
Samuel Rubin Foundation
Harry M. Siegel
United Airlines
U.S. Air
Donors of Financial Support
Mr. William Broadhurst and Mrs. Ernestine B. Howard Charles F. Kettering Foundation
Ellis L. Phillips Foundation
Fogarty International Center, National Institutes of Health National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
Donors of Financial Support
Educational Outreach Fund, Office of Assistant Secretary for Public Service, and Smithsonian Women’s Committee: partial funding for the Free Film Theater.
Middle East Institute: funds for the Program’s participation in the international symposium, Egypt Today, March 16—April 30, 1981; additional funding also received from private corporations and individuals in support of this symposium.
Netherlands-America Amity Trust, Inc.: funds for the director’s participation, as vice-chairperson for culture and publications, in connection with activities being planned to commemorate the bicentennial of the 1782 opening of diplomatic relations and the signing of a treaty of amity and commerce between the two countries.
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program: a grant from Egyptian excess currency funds, covering per-diem costs for three trips to Egypt by the director in preparation for Egypt Today.
Donors of Support to the 1981 Corporate Fund
American Telephone and Telegraph Company Atlantic Richfield Foundation
Conoco Inc.
Exxon Corporation
General Foods Corporation
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 573

<<<Page: 584>>>

International Business Machines Corporation Merck and Company
Mobil Oil Foundation, Inc.
The Prudential Foundation
R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.
Standard Oil Company (Indiana)
CBS Inc.
Champion International Corporation Chevron U.S.A., Inc.
International Paper Company Foundation Shell Companies Foundation, Inc.
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc. Time Inc.
United States Steel Foundation, Inc. Xerox Corporation
Allied Chemical Foundation Amerada Hess Corporation American Express Foundation Anheuser-Busch Foundation Arthur Andersen and Company The Bendix Corporation Bethlehem Steel Corporation The Chase Manhattan Bank Chevron U.S.A., Inc.
Citicorp
Clark-Winchcole Foundation Deloitte Haskins & Sells
E. I. Dupont De Nemours and Co., Inc. Ernst and Whinney
Ford Motor Company Fund General Electric Company Johnson and Johnson Associated Industries Fund Nabisco Brands, Inc.
The N.C.R. Foundation Northrop Corporation Northwest Energy Company Philip Morris Inc.
Price Waterhouse and Company The Proctor and Gamble Fund Raytheon Company
Sears, Roebuck and Company Sheller-Globe Corporation Tenneco Inc.
Union Pacific Foundation
The Washington Post Company
Abilene National Bank Allis-Chalmers Foundation, Inc. The Allstate Foundation American Broadcasting Company American Security Bank, N.A.
574 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 585>>>

Archer-Daniels-Midland Corporation BankAmerica Foundation
Bechtel Foundation
Beverly Wilshire Hotel
The Boeing Company
The Bristol-Myers Fund
Burroughs Corporation
The C & P Telephone Company Capital Cities Foundation, Inc. Caterpillar Tractor Company Celanese Corporation
Chemical Bank
Ciba-Geigy Corporation
Cities Service Foundation
Comsat
Consolidated Petroleum Industries, Inc. The Continental Group Foundation, Inc. CSX Corporation
Cummins Engine Foundation Diamond Shamrock Corporation Dow Corning Corporation
Dresser Industries Inc.
Eaton Charitable Fund
Fayez Sarofim and Co. Federal-Mogul Corporation Charitable Trust Fund Fluor Foundation Foremost-McKesson Foundation, Inc. General Dynamics
General Telephone and Electronics The George Hyman Construction Company Getty Oil Company
The Gillette Company
Gould Foundation
Grace Foundation Inc.
Harris Foundation
Hiram Walker and Sons, Inc. Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc.
Honeywell Fund
International Harvester Foundation John Deere Foundation
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company Johns-Manville Fund, Inc.
Johnson and Higgins
Johnson’s Wax Fund, Inc.
Kellogg Company
Kimberly-Clark Foundation Inc.
Levi Strauss Foundation
Lincoln National Corporation McGraw-Hill Foundation, Inc. Martin Marietta
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation
The May Stores Foundation, Inc. Merrill Lynch and Co. Inc.
Monsanto Fund
National Geographic Society
Nissan Motor Corporation
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 575

<<<Page: 586>>>

The NL Industries Foundation Occidental Petroleum Corporation Owens-Illinois, Inc.
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
Perpetual Federal Savings and Loan Association The Pfizer Foundation, Inc. Phelps-Dodge Industries Inc. Pitney-Bowes Inc.
Potomac Electric Power Company Reader’s Digest Association, Inc. Reynolds Metals Company Foundation Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C. St. Regis Paper Co.
Schering-Plough Foundation Inc. Schlumberger Horizons, Inc.
Security Pacific Charitable Foundation Smithkline Corporation
Sperry Corporation
The Standard Oil Company (Ohio) Sun Company, Inc.
The Times Mirror Foundation
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
TRW Foundation
Union Carbide Corporation
Union Pacific Foundation
United Technologies
Wang Laboratories
The Warner-Lambert Foundation Wheelabrator Foundation Inc.
Wells Fargo Foundation
Woodward and Lothrop, Inc. Wyndam Hotel of New York
AMF Foundation
Abbott Laboratories
Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Company The Air Products Foundation American Cyanamid Company American Hospital Supply Corporation Arrow Services
AVCO Corporation
Baker International Corporation Belding Hausman Foundation Inc. Black, Starr and Frost Ltd.
Huntington T. Block Insurance Burson-Marsteller
CPC International
Caesar’s World, Inc.
Campbell Soup Fund
Central Telephone and Utilities Corporation Chesebrough-Pond’s Inc.
Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. Connecticut General Corporation Continental Bank Foundation
Cross and Trecker Foundation
576 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 587>>>

Crum and Forster Foundation
Dayco Charitable Foundation, Inc.
Detroit Bank and Trust Company Donohoe Construction Co., Inc.
Dow Jones and Company, Inc.
Eli Lilly and Company
Emerson Charitable Trust
Equitable Life Insurance Company
Ethyl Corporation
Fairchild Industries Foundation, Inc.
First Boston Foundation Trust
Folger Nolan Fleming Douglas Inc.
Foote, Cone and Belding Foundation Franklin Mint Corporation
Fruehauf Corporation Charitable Fund, Inc. Garfinckel, Brooks Brothers, Miller & Rhoads, Inc. Geico Philanthropic Foundation
General Signal Corporation
The General Tire Foundation, Inc. Georgia-Pacific
Giant Food Foundation, Inc.
GK Technologies Foundation, Inc. Goldman, Sachs and Co.
B. F. Goodrich Company
Gulf and Western Foundation
Halliburton Company
Handy and Harman Foundation
Hecht’s
Hoover Universal
Holiday Inns, Inc.
Hospital Corporation of America
The Howard P. Foley Company International Bank
The Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Foundation Lazard Freres and Co.
Lever Brothers Company Foundation Libbey-Owens-Ford Company
Liberty National Bank and Trust Company Loews Foundation
The LTV Corporation
Lutz and Carr
Main Hurdman and Cranstoun
Mars Foundation
Montgomery Ward Foundation
Morgan Stanley and Co.
Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York National Savings and Trust Company New York Life Foundation
The Northern Trust Company
Norton Simon, Inc.
NVF Company Community Services Trust Fund Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation Peoples Drug Stores
Phillips Petroleum Company
Raleigh Stores Corporation
Reading and Bates Corporation
Restaurant Associates Industries Inc.
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 577

<<<Page: 588>>>

The Rouse Company
Royal Crown Companies, Inc. Safeway Stores, Inc.
Salomon Brothers Foundation, Inc.
B. F. Saul Real Estate Investment Trust
The Scott and Fetzer Foundation The Silverstein Family Foundation Squibb Corporation Stewart-Warner Foundation Technicolor Inc.
Texas Commerce Bank
Thomas Somerville Company
J. Walter Thompson Company Fund Inc.
Turner Construction Company USAir
U.S. Gypsum Company
U.S. News & World Report
Union Oil Company of California Foundation
Washington Fish Exchange, Inc.
W. Clement and Jessie V. Stone Foundation
Weaver Brothers, Inc.
Western Electric Fund
Young and Rubicam Foundation Zinder Companies, Inc.
Donors of Works of Art and Financial Support
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Alsdorf
Robert O. Anderson
The Chief of Protocol and The Honorable Walter H. Annenberg
Art Lovers League
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Aschheim
Martin and Liane W. Atlas
Avalon Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Sid R. Bass
Mrs. John A. Beck
Ruth B. Benedict
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman
David Blue
John and Louise Booth
Mrs. S. N. Brimberg
Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown
J. Carter Brown
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund
Charles Terry Butler*
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. William N. Cafritz
E. A. Carmean, Jr.
Mrs. Gilbert W. Chapman*
Collectors Committee
* Deceased.
578 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Catherine Mellon Conover
Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Ducommun
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest du Pont, Jr.
David B. Epstein
James R. Epstein
The Fay Improvement Co.
Mrs. Julius Fleischmann
Mrs. Edward Fowles
The Fuller Foundation, Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. Robert J. Futoran
Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch*
Mrs. George A. Garrett
Gemini G. E. L.
General Telephone & Electronics Corporation
Lucien Goldschmidt, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Goulandris
Katharine Graham
Bernard Green
Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Griswold
George Gund
Leo S. Guthman
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Hampton
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

<<<Page: 589>>>

John Davis Hatch
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen
Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Heinz II
Mrs. Harvey Heyser
Susan Morse Hilles
Oveta Culp Hobby
Philip Hofer
IBM Corporation
The Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin II
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.
Ruth Carter Johnson
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan
Mr. and Mrs. Randolph Kidder
Seymour Knox
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Joan Lees, in memory of Edward Lees, M.D.
Mrs. Halleck Lefferts
Marilyn and Leonard Lehrer, in memory of Lessing J. Rosenwald
Mr. and Mrs. Judd Leighton
Sara L. Lepman
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Catherine S. Lowes
Mr. and Mrs. John C. McCone
Edward R. MacCrone Charitable Trust
Mrs. Eugene McDermott
Mr. and Mrs. William M. McDonald
Paul Magriel
Florence Mahoney
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Constance Mellon
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon
Daniel J. Meltzer
Dieter Erich Meyer
Lane D. Miller
Mobil Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Moncrief
Frederick Mulder
Mr. and Mrs. Morton G. Neumann
Victor Nicholson
Mrs. P. Roussel Norman
Georgia O’Keeffe
William B. O’Neal
Joan Palevsky
William S. Paley
Raymonde Paul, in memory of C. Michael Paul
The Phillips Family Fund Robert S. Pirie Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky John Powell Foundation Mr. and Mrs. A. N. Pritzker Mr. and Mrs. Jay Pritzker Professional Art Group I Richard T. Pruiksma Esther W. Putnam General and Mrs. Dillman A. Rash Republic National Bank of New York Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rogers Stanley Roseman, in memory of his father, Bernard Roseman Mr. and Mrs. Helmut H. Rumbler Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler Mr. and Mrs. Richard Salomon Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Schwartz Mrs. Andrew Ross Scott Jean-Pierre Seguin J. Gary Shansby Evelyn Sharp Robert H. and Clarice Smith Smithsonian Resident Associate Program Mme. Andree Stassart Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Steiner H. Peter Stern John R. Stevenson Mrs. Raymond F. Tartiere Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation Time Incorporated Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Tobin U.S.-China Academy of Law and Social Sciences Virginia M. Ullman Hugo Vandewallbake Mr. and Mrs. James M. Vaughn, Jr. Arthur and Charlotte Vershbow Vogue Magazine Martin Weekly Mr. Frederick Weisman The Honorable and Mrs. John Hay Whitney John Wilmerding Mr. and Mrs. William Wood Prince The Honorable and Mrs. Stanley Woodward Mrs. Lowe Yost Mr. and Mrs. William Kelly Young
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 579

<<<Page: 590>>>

Benefactors of the Smithsonian Insitituton
in Fiscal Year 1981
As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution has received federal support since it was established in 1846 to carry out the terms of James Smithson’s will. Appropriated funds have long provided important additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subsequent benefactors, to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for research and exhibition of the national collections and maintenance of the valuable objects and records of science, history, and culture entrusted to the
Institution.
The Smithsonian’s basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research, acquisition, and educational programs, which are central to the Smithsonian’s
present resources and achievements.
The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to the foundations, corporations, and individuals listed below for their gifts, bequests, and contributing memberships in the Smithsonian Associates. If the name of any benefactor has been omitted from the following list, it is unintentional and in no way lessens the
Smithsonian’s appreciation.
$100,000 or more
Anonymous
Carnegie Corporation of New York The Jimmy Carter Inaugural Trust Mr. Thomas M. Evans International Harvester Co.
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.
The Kettering Fund
Korean Traders Association
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Presidential Inaugural Committee 1981
James Smithson Society
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation
$10,000 or more
The Joe L. & Barbara Allbritton Foundation
American Association of Anesthesiologists
Amoco Foundation, Inc.
Anonymous
Arabian American Oil Company
Mr. Leigh B. Block
Estate of Elizabeth Cutting Booker
The Brown Foundation
Mrs. Helen W. Buckner
The Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
Champion International Corporation
580 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Citibank, N.A.
The Coca-Cola Company Conoco, Inc.
The Estate of Robert Tyler Davis The 831 Gallery, Inc.
Ernst & Company
Exxon Education Foundation The Folger Fund
The Graham Foundation
Estate of Sergei N. Grimm
Hansen Minerals
Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust Estate of Wendell Hoss

<<<Page: 591>>>

International Council of Scientific Unions
International Union for the Conservation of Nature
The Johnson Foundation
The Johnson’s Wax Fund, Inc.
Mr. Jack Kaufman
Miss Karen Johnson Keland
Mrs. Otto Peter Kominik
Embassy of Korea
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation
Martin Marietta Corporation
Richard King Mellon Foundation
R. K. Mellon Family Foundation
Merck & Co., Inc.
The Charles E. Merrill Trust
Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation
The Middle East Institute
Missouri Pacific Railroad Co.
Mobay Chemical Corporation
Mobil Foundation, Inc.
The Ambrose Monell Foundation
Philip Morris Incorporated
The N.C.R. Foundation
National Audubon Society, Inc.
National Committee to Honor the Fourteenth Centennial of Islam
National Geographic Society
Dr. J. Brooks Newbill
Occidental Petroleum Corporation
Pew Memorial Trust
Ellis L. Phillips Foundation
Phillips Petroleum
R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. Arthur Ross
Arthur Ross Foundation
Societa Nationale Elf Acquitaine
The Ruth & Vernon Taylor Foundation
United Technologies
Whitehall Foundation, Inc.
Mr. John G. Wolbach
The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
World Wildlife Fund
$1,000 or more
Adolphus Foundation
AKC Fund, Inc.
The Alvord Foundation
Amax Foundation, Inc.
American Cyanamid Company
American Legion Post #88
American National Red Cross
AMF Foundation
Amoco Production Company
Amos Press, Incorporated
Mrs. Robert W. Anderson
Anonymous
The Arcadia Foundation
Bernard Aronson Foundation, Inc.
Atwood Foundation
Mr. Frank A. Augsbury, Jr.
Badger Meter Foundation, Inc.
Ballantine Family Charitable Fund
Bank Fur Gemeinwirtschaft
J. M. R. Barker Foundation
Mrs. Evelyn F. Bartlett
The Bass Foundation
Mrs. Patricia D. Beck
Beneficia Foundation
Beneficial Foundation, Inc.
Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Bielfield
Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 581
Mr. Leigh B. Block
Mr. John Boreta
The Bothin Helping Fund
Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust
Mrs. Florence B. Brimberg
The Bristol-Myers Fund
Mr. William Broadhurst and Mrs. Ernestine B. Howard
Bull’s Head Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce
The Bundy Foundation
Mr. Lee B. Burnett
Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton
State of California
Cenro Corporation
Charles River Breeding Laboratories
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.
Chevron Chemical Company
Ciba-Geigy
College Art Association of America
Commerzbank A. G.
Dr. G. Arthur Cooper
Mr. Ted Cooper
Copernicus Society of America
Mrs. Susan L. Cullman
Cutter Laboratories Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Dante
Daughters of the American Revolution

<<<Page: 592>>>

Mr. and Mrs. F. Arnold Daum
Mrs. Phyllis Dearborn-Massar
Deluxe Check Printers Foundation
Deutsche Bank A. G.
Diamond Shamrock Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley
Dresdner Bank A. G.
Dresser Foundation, Inc.
The Eppley Foundation
Mr. Michael C. Erlanger
European American Bank
Mr. and Mrs. George R. Fink
Firestone and Parson
First American Bank
Benson & Edith Ford Fund
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Ford
The Garden Club of America
Mrs. Anna L. Garner
General Refractories Company
Sumner Gerard Foundation
Getty Oil Company
Mr. Randall G. Gibson
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Glenn
Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goldberg
Estate of Sergei N. Grimm
Estate of Mortimer Grunauer
Mr. R. Philip Hanes, Jr.
Hapag-Lloyd (America), Inc.
W. Averell Harriman Charitable Lead Trust
Dr. Herbert E. Hawkes
Joseph H. Hazen Foundation Inc.
The Sidney L. Hechinger Foundation
H. J. Heinz Company
Miss Lucy Reed Hibberd
The Henry L. Hillman Foundation
Hobby Foundation
American Hoechst Corporation
The NL Industries Foundation, Inc.
The International Trust for Nature Conservation
Jayasinhji Jhala
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Kahn
Henry P. Kendall Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Kinney
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kloecker
Fred C. Koch Trust for Charity
The Korean Artists Association of Greater Washington
Dr. Marvin C. Korengold
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane
Milton H. Latter Educational & Charitable Foundation
The LBJ Family Foundation
League of Arab States
Leatherwood Land Company
Mr. Irvin A. Levy
582 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Lilly Endowment, Inc.
Howard & Jean Lipman Foundation, Inc.
The Anthony Francis LucasSpindeltop Foundation
Mr. Bradford McCormick
The McKee Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. B. John Mackin
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney
Manufacturers Hanover Foundation
J. Willard Marriott, Jr. Charitable Annuity Trust
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller
Dr. Brian H. Mason
Mr. and Mrs. Harris Masterson
The Helen R. and Harold C. Mayer Foundation Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed
Menil Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. George Merck
Reverend and Mrs. Van S. Merle-Smith
Mrs. Marian Mitchell
Mobil Oil Corporation
The Honorable and Mrs. John S. Monagan
Museums Collaborative, Inc.
Mrs. Nancy Brown Negley
New York State Historical Association
Ms. Olivia Newton-John
Nichimen Co. Inc.
Mr. Bruce W. Nicols
The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.
Mr. John F. Olmstead
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer
Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer
The Overbrook Foundation
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Hall James Peterson
Mr. and Mrs. Gifford Phillips
Pogo Producing Company
Polaroid Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Robert H. Power
Eugenie Prendergast Foundation, Inc.
Queene Ferry Coonley Foundation
Mr. Lloyd E. Raport
Anne S. Richardson Fund
Sid W. Richardson Foundation
H. Smith Richardson Charitable Trust
Rizzoli International Publications Inc.
Mr. Laurence S. Rockefeller
Amanda and Steven J. Ross
The Mark Rothko Foundation, Inc.
Samual Rubin Foundation
Mr: and Mrs. Henry Rubin
Saks Fifth Avenue

<<<Page: 593>>>

Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund
Sarah I. Schieffelin Residuary Trust
J. W. Sefton Foundation
Seven Eleven Foundation
Mr. Robert F. Shapiro
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic Alan Sharf
Miss Celia Siegal
Siemans Corporation
Miss Caroline T. Simmons
Mr. George W. Sims
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Smits
Sohio Petroleum Corp.
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Sperry Corporation
St. Joe Minerals Corp.
Dr. Frank Stanton
Steelcase, Inc.
Stein-Frieler Foundation
Sterling Silversmiths’ Guild of America
Estate of Rolf Stone
The Taubman Company Inc.
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman
$500 or
Ambassade de la Republique Gabonaise
Anonymous
Mr. and Mrs. Tobin Armstrong
Mrs. William Bassett
Becker and Becker Incorporated
Mr. Sewell C. Biggs
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Bloom
Mrs. Dorothee N. Bowie
Mr. and Mrs. John Bunce
Mrs. Mary Griggs Burke
California Arts Council
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Childs
Cities Service Company
Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen
Mrs. B. D. Coleman
Mr. Thomas Gardiner Corcoran
Mr. Julien Cornell
Miss Anne S. Dayton
Miss Jean Delacour
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Jay Deutch
Deutz Corporation
Mr. Edward P. Djerejian
Mr. Thomas Dugan
Eastern Construction
Mr. Ray Eilers
FAG Bearings Corporation
Mr. Bernard S. Finn
Max & Marjorie Fisher Foundation, Inc.
Tennessee American Legion Post #15
Mr. John S. Thacher
Time-Life Books Inc.
Times Mirror Company
Mrs. Louise Talbot Trigg
The Tillman Trotter Foundation
The Tubman Trust
Union Pacific Foundation/Champlin Petroleum Company
United Technologies
US National Section ICBP
Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen
Volkswagen of America, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Wainger
The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Ralph J. Weiler Foundation
Lawrence A. Wein Foundation, Inc.
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research
Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust
Mrs. Claire A. Williams
C. B. Wright
Miss Virginia Bloedel Wright
more
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Fleishchman
The Ford Foundation
William and Martha Ford Fund
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Fraad
Mrs. Helena Fraser
Dr. Kurt Fredriksson
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Fried
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Goldberg
Mr. and Mrs. Abner Goldstone
Miss Pauline L. Harrison
The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection & Insurance Co.
Mrs. Amy E. Higgins
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn
The Johns Hopkins University
Mr. Richard M. Hunt
Miss Sheila Isham
Isis-History of Science Society
Mrs. Dorothy M. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Johnson 3rd
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Winslow Jones
JWK International Corporation
Ms. Julianne Kemper
Mrs. Dorothy Kidder
Mr. Warren B. King
The Seymour H. Knox Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler
Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 583

<<<Page: 594>>>

Korf Industries
Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger
Lakeside Foundation
Dr. William A. Lange
Miss Hope G. Lee
Little Gallery
Mrs. Kathleen S. Louchheim
Lurgi Corporation
The Magowan Family Foundation Inc.
Mrs. Eugene McDermott
Miss Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal, Jr.
Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.
Rodris Roth
Mrs. Joan W. Saltztein
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer
John G. Shedd Aquarium
Mr. Sidney N. Shure
Schloemann-Siemag, Inc.
Gilbert B. & Lisa Silverman Foundation
Miss Anneliese Sinn
Mr. John J. Slocum
Ms. Elizabeth R. McIntosh Mrs. Edwin Meredith
Mr. and Mrs. John Merriam Mrs. Vaughan B. Meyer Museums Collaborative Inc. Mrs. Albert H. Newman Occidental Petroleum Corporation The Pioneer Foundation, Inc. Mrs. Shirley Polykoff
Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley Miss Blanchette H. Rockefeller Mrs. William Rosenblum
Mrs. Mary Leigh Smart
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spainer Mr. Archie R. Tunturi
Union Oil Company of California Mrs. Nelson Urban
USDA Garden Club
Mrs. Claus Von Bulow
Mr. and Mrs. William Wallstein Mr. Clune J. Walsh, Jr.
Mr. Rudolph W. Weitz
Western Cultural Management, Inc. Miss Jean Davies Wright
The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support the Institution’s work through annual contributions of $50, $100, $250, and $500.
The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and recognize major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. This Society, which is the highest order of the Contributing Memberships in the Smithsonian Associates, is comprised of two membership categories. Annual Members are individuals who make unrestricted contributions of $1,000 or more annually. Until 1981, Life Membership was granted in recognition of monetary gifts or additions to the collection valued at $25,000 or more. Beginning in 1981, the bronze, silver, and gold medals were no longer awarded; today life membership is awarded to only those individuals who receive the Founder Medal for extraordinary contributions to the Institution.
The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous support of the James Smithson Society 1981 Annual Members, Life Members, and the Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian Associates.
1981 Life Members
Mr. David K. Anderson Miss Charlotte V. Bergen Mr. Thomas M. Evans
Membership (Annual and Life)
Mrs. Anni Albers Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Mr. John H. Phipps Mr. Raphael Soyer Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson Hon. Chief of Protocol and the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg
584 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 595>>>

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo
Mr. Scott R. Anselmo
Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains
Mrs. Joan Hay Baizerman
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Baker II
Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett
Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett
Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hood Bassett
Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett
Mrs. Donald C. Beatty
Mr. Henry C. Beck, Jr.
Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford
Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton
Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Best
Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat
Mr. Richard A. Bideaux
Mrs. Harry Payne Bingham
Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner
Mr. and Mrs. Leigh B. Block
Mr. Winton M. Blount
Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas F. Brady
Mr. and Mrs. Bob Brinkerhoff
Mr. Lee Bronson
Mr. Alfred P. Brooks
Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Brown
Mrs. David K. E. Bruce
Mrs. Susie Brummer
Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun and Dr. Bertel Bruun
Hon. and Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, line
Hon. and Mrs. Philip W. Buchen
Dr. and Mrs. George E. Burch
Mrs. Jackson Burke
Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Barnet Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Hyman Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hubbard Caldwell, Jr.
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S. Campbell
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell
Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.
Mr. Allan Caplan Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.
* Founder Medalist.
Hon. and Mrs. Henry E. Catto, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. George P. Caulkins, Jr.
Hon. and Mrs. Robert Horne Charles
Mr. and Mrs. E. Taylor Chewning, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Blair Childs
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Mr. Robert L. Coleman
Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Mr. Joseph E. Connor
Mrs. Howard F. Cook
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell
Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles
Mr. Marshall B. Coyne
Miss Louise Crane
Mr. and Mrs. John David Crow
Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd
Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Cunningham
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II
Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Daly III
Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart
Hon. and Mrs. Shelby Cullom Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day
Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona
Mrs. Kathryn W. Donaldson
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Donnell II
Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Dorrance, Jr.
Mr. John R. Doss
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas
Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.
Dr. Dale B. Dubin*
Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont
Mr. Duncan L. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr.
Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac
Mrs. Eric Eweson
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Exley, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Fisher III
Hon. and Mrs. William H. G. FitzGerald
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Floyd, Jr.
Mrs. John Clifford Folger
Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Freed
Rear Adm. and Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield
Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 585

<<<Page: 596>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield
Mrs. George A. Garrett
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Miss Rachel Gay
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson
Ms. Susan R. Goldman
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott
Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Graham, Sr.
Mr. William B. Graham
Mr. Jerome L. Greene
Mr. and Mrs. Bradley Greene
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes
Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross
Mr. John W. Gruber
Mr. Leo S. Guthman
Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall
Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes
Mr. and Mrs. Peter T. Hanson
Mrs. Richard Harkness
Hon. and Mrs. W. Averell Harriman
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mr. Joseph H. Hazen
Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen*
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy III
John and Lucia Heard
Dennis and Elizabeth Heffernan
Mr. Andrew Heiskell
Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Herring
Mrs. Edith Mansfield Hills
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn*
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Holladay
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
Mr. Pau! Horgan
Mr. Allan Oakley Hunter
Mr. R. Bruce Hunter
Dr. and Mrs. Howard lThrig
Mr. R. L. Ireland III
Hon. and Mrs. John N. Irwin II
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Israel, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels
Mr. and Mrs. George Frederick Jewett, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Jonsson
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
* Founder Medalist.
586 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Mrs. Virginia Kettering Kampf Mrs. Garfield Kass
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann Mr. and Mrs. James F. Keenan Mrs. Karen Johnson Keland
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr. Hon. and Mrs. W. John Kenney Hon. and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby
Dr. Arthur A. and Marie L. Kirk Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merrill Klein Hon. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land
Dr. David Landau
Dr. Morris P. Leibovitz
Mr. and Mrs. L.-E. Leininger
Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon Mrs. Sara L. Lepman
Mr and Mrs. John Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Mr. Elliot R. Lief
Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey
Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred L. Loomis, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord
Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Love
Mrs. Adele Lozowick
Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick
Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.
Mrs. Edward Macauley
Hon. and Mrs. George C. McGhee Hon. and Mrs. Robert M. McKinney Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm MacNaughton Mr. and Mrs. Donald McNeely
Mr. Henry S. McNeil
Lieut. Gen. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Magowan
Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone
Mr. Edgar S. Mangiafico
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Marks
Mr. and Mrs. Jj. Willard Marriott, Sr.
Hon. and Mrs. William McChesney Martin, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Mascioli
Mr. John A. Masek
Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers
Mr. Vincent Melzac*

<<<Page: 597>>>

Mr. Jack L. Messman
Dr. Ruben F. Mettler
Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller
Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker Mrs. Edmund C. Monell
Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Mountain, Jr.
Mr. Fredric Mueller
Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins
Dr. Josephine L. Murray
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray Mrs. Nancy Brown Negley
Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken
Dr. and Mrs. James Brooks Newbill Hon. and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Norton III Hon. and Mrs. R. Henry Norweb George L. and Sandra W. Ohrstrom Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow Mrs. Rudolf Pabst
Hon. and Mrs. Daniel Parker
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr. Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Polk
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Pope
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price
Mrs. Abraham Rattner
Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Reed
Mr. John Paul Remensnyder
Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Jr.
Hon. Frederick W. Richmond Robert and Kathleen Ridder
Mr. and Mrs. Walter T. Ridder Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson Mr. and Mrs. Ellis H. Robison
Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock
Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller
Hon. Martin J. Roess
Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr. Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose
Mr. Arthur Ross
Mrs. Edgar L. Rossin
* Founder Medalist.
Hon. Kenneth Rush
Mrs. Howard J. Sachs
Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon
Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul II
Mr. and Mrs. Harry I. Saul
Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz
Sen. and Mrs. Hugh Scott
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Searle
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Frates Seeligson
Lieut. Gen. and Mrs. George M. Seignious II
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Silverstein
Mr. and Mrs. David E. Skinner
Mr. David G. Skinner
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan
Mrs. Frances F. Smith
Hon. and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mrs. Otto Spaeth
Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler
Mr. Stuart M. Speiser*
Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack
Dr. and Mrs. Richard F. S. Starr
Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright
Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright
Mrs. Janet Newbold Stewart
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli
Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Mr. David A. Sutherlund
Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz
Mrs. Katherine Sergava Sznycer
The Drs. Yen and Julia Tan
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Taylor, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper
Hon. Daniel J. Terra
Mrs. Edith Hale Thomas
Hon. and Mrs. Clark W. Thompson
Mr. Richard W. Thomssen
Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana
Mr. and Mrs. Juan Terry Trippe
Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland
Mr. and Mrs. Wynant D. Vanderpool, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda
Dr. and Mrs. Francis S$. Walker
Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 587

<<<Page: 598>>>

Drs. Jeremy P. and Lucy R. Waletzky
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang
Mr. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.
Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead
Mr. Harry Weese
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley Mr. and Mrs. Brayton Wilbur, Jr. Mrs. Leonard E. Wilkinson*
Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner Mr. and Mrs. Edward Foss Wilson Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Withers
Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten II Mr. and Mrs. David O. Woodbury Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward Mr. James O. Wright
Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol
Sustaining Members ($500 and above)
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson
Mrs. L. M. Aroniss
Mr. George H. C. Arrowsmith
Mrs. W. P. Battell
Ms. Winifred H. Bauer
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic F. Bigio
Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg
Mr. Alan L. Cameros
Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten
Mrs. Sylvia M. Clark
Capt. and Mrs. Edward L. Cochrane, jx
Miss Linda Cooper Crow
Mr. Arthur J. Curry
His Excellency The Ambassador of Brazil and Mrs. da Silveira
Mr. Paul L. Davies, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Irenee DuPont
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Emlet
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Feeney
Mr. Julius Fleischman
Col. and Mrs. Clarence D. Fried
Mr. Abner J. Golieb
Mr. and Mrs. Jerzy J. Hauptmann
Mr. John W. Hechinger
Ms. Nona G. Herndon
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hoover
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Howar Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Johnson Mr. E. C. Kubik
Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield
Mrs. John E. Long
Ms. Frances A. Notley
Cmdr. and Mrs. Lester E. Ogilvy Mr. and Mrs. Mandell J. Ourisman Ms. Helen Ann Patton
Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord
Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Mrs. Sylvester Rothchild
Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. William W. Sharp Dr. and Mrs. Lionel J. Skidmore Mr. and Mrs. Hugh M. South
Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger
Mrs. Gardiner Symonds
Major C. A. Thomas
Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Thompson Ms. Ann T. VanRosevelt Roosevelt Dr. Daniel C. Warren
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Waters Mr. and Mrs. Grover C. White, Jr. Mr. Warren K. Wilhelm
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Zorthian
Sponsoring Members ($250 and above)
Mr. Russell T. Adams
Mr. W. Mike Adams
Mr. David Agnew
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Allen
Mrs. Carolyn Alper
Mr. and Mrs. H. Max Ammerman Mr. and Mrs. David R. Anderson Mr. Myron Anderson
Mrs. Paul S. Anderson
Mr. G. J. Andrews
Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes
* Founder Medalist.
588 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Dr. Doris B. Autry
Ms. Mildred Bach
Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Bach Ms. Dorothy A. Baetcke
Mr. Michael Barczak
Mr. and Mrs. Earl W. Barnes Ms. Janine F. Barre
Mr. Ralph B. Beals
Mr. Donald R. Bean
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Becker Mr. and Mrs. James R. Bemis

<<<Page: 599>>>

Col. and Mrs. George C. Berger Mr. John H. Bernard
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer
Mr. Frederick Blachly
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black Mr. John L. Black
Mr. John A. Blakemore
Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman Mr. Frank Bliss, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Steven R. Bowen Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T. Bowie Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles Ms. Eugenie R. Bradford
Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantley Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Brickel Dr. and Mrs. S. B. Brinkley
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Brodie Mr. and Mrs. Louis J. Brown Ms. Patricia L. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Buck
Mr. and Mrs. I. Townsend Burden III Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks Mrs. Julia T. Burlen
Mrs. Poe Burling
Mr. Richard Scott Burow
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Burr
Mr. Joseph Burton
Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell
Mr. Nicholas Bush
Mr. G. W. Callender
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Campbell Mr. William D. Campbell
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Carrera
Col. and Mrs. Douglas H. Carter Mrs. George A. Carver
Mr. Richard S. Cayo
Mrs. Harold W. Cheel
Mr. John C. Cini
Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett Mr. Bertram M. Cohen
Mrs. James M. Collins
Ms. Virginia Collins
Mr. T. Clyde Collins, Jr.
Mr. Arthur Copertino
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Corbet
Dr. and Mrs. Louis Corson
Mr. Walter H. Corson
Mr. Ralph J. Coselli
Mr. James R. Cramblett
Mrs. Richard S. Cross
Capt. and Mrs. R. L. Daniels Mr. and Mrs. Keith Davis
Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Dawson Mr. and Mrs. E. J. De Vane
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Dellheim Miss Louise Dick
Ms. Betty Crites Dillon
Mrs. John Dimick
Mr. James A. Dorsch
Mr. Alden Lowell Doud
Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Eger
Mr. Lawrence A. Ehrhart
Mr. F. H. Ellenberger
Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein
Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr. Miss Patricia Fenton
Mr. James P. Finn
Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Folkerth Mr. Albert A. Folop
Mr. Richard E. Ford
Mr. William C. Frogale
Mr. and Mrs. Murray J. Gart Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Geller Mrs. Melvin Gelman
Mr. and Mrs. M. F. George
Mr. Arthur F. Gerding
Dr. William H. Gerger
Ms. Frances E. Gibson
Mr. Thomas F. Gilbane
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Goldman Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith
Col. and Mrs. J. Goldstein
Mrs. Lois R. Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green Mr. and Mrs. Joseph B. Greeg Mr. Richard P. Grill
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Groth Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Guttag
Mr. Ernest T. Guy
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Haas Mr. Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr. Ms. Elizabeth P. Hagen
Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Hammock Ms. Morella R. Hansen
Mr. and Mrs. Paul O. Harder Ms. Helen Leale Harper, Jr.
Mr. William J. Harris, Jr.
Miss Annabelle Heath
Mr. Jeffrey L. Hendry
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Herman Mr. and Mrs. William B. Hewitt Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Horn Mr. John K. Hoskinson
Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Hubatka, III
Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 589

<<<Page: 600>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes Mrs. S. T. Inglish
Dr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey
Mr. W. D. Jackson
Dr. John R. Jacoway
Mr. Charles W. Jones
Miss Charlotte Jones
Mr. Ted Jones
Mr. John M. Kalbermatten
Dr. John J. Kane
Mrs. George C. Keiser
Mr. and Mrs. Harris L. Kempner Mr. Walter H. Kidd
Mr. George H. Kinkel
Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer Mr. Albert Kramer
Dr. Robert Krasner
Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Day, Jr. Mrs. Clift C. Lane
Ms. Agatha Larson
Mr. Robert F. Law
Dr. Walter E. Lawrinson
Mr. Charles W. Lee
The Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman Foundation, Inc.
Ms. G. E. Lemos
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis Mr. H. D. Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred B. Lichtenstein Mr. David H. Lloyd
Dr. R. H. Lloyd
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Long Mr. William A. Long
Mr. Charles L. Lowery
Ms. Laura McAuliffe
Mr. Gordon W. McBride
Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. McHugh Mr. John S. McInnes
Ms. M. Joy McIntosh
Mrs. G. H. McKee
Mr. R. A. McReynolds
Mr. James D. McClary
Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt Mr. Edward Marks
Mrs. Elizabeth Martin
Mr. M. S. Martin
Mr. William T. Mason III
Dr. and Mrs. Glenn B. Mather Col. Billie G. Matheson
Dr. William B. May
Mr. and Mrs. Marcus Mehtonen Dr. David B. Michaels
Mr. Richard J. Mikyska
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone
590 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Mr. and Mrs. E. Kirkbride Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel M. Millet
Mr. and Mrs. Glenn J. Mischel
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore
Mr. Richard H. Moore
Mrs. Theda A. Moreno
Mr. Russell H. Morton
Mr. Anthony John Mourek
Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr.
Mr. Jerry L. Mungo
Mr. Edmund L. Murray
Miss Lucile Myers
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Niles
Mr. William J. O’Connor, Jr.
Mr. Robert Orben
Mrs. Henry S. Owens
Mr. Arnold E. Palmer
Comdr. Everett A. Parke
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick
Ms. Shirley Carter Patterson
Mr. Louis Peller
Mr. and Mrs. Thorn Pendleton
Mr. William C. Penick
Mr. Gene Perry
Ms. Jacqueline Perry
Mr. James P. Perry
Ms. Samantha A. Peterson
Dr. J. C. Petricciani "
Mrs. Alys E. Phreaner
Ms. Jacqueline Pierce
Mr. Welch Pogue
Mrs. Charles P. Price
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas S. Price
Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato
Ms. Eileen Jane Quinn
Mr. Gary I. Rainbow
Mr. William Rausch
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Reese
Dr. Michael J. Reilly
Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads
Mr. Joseph A. Rice
Ms. Mary M. Roberts
Mr. Walter P. Robinson, Jr.
Mr. George C. Rohwer
Mr. Ray W. Rosevear
Drs. Randi and Philip Rubovits-Seitz
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo
Mr. Wayne D. Rydberg
Mr. Arnold Sagalyn
Ms. Suzanne St. Pierre
Mr. Milton C. Sappe
Mr. David Saunders
Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Saylor
Miss Matilda P. Schlicht
Ms. Judith A. Schomer

<<<Page: 601>>>

Mr. Dr:
Mrs Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.
Ms. Mrs Mr.
and Mrs. Stephen Schroffel James G. Schwade
aGaVNE Ocott
. Arnold Selk
. Catherine H. Sells
. James G. Shakman
.and Mrs. Gerard E. Shelton . and Mrs. George E. Sherman . Therese L. Shor
.and Mrs. Milton L. Shurr .W. W. Sidney
. and Mrs. Jack Silberman .and Mrs. M. Silverman
. James B. Simmons
. Wilbur M. Sims
_E. Sullivan Slack
and Mrs. Albert H. Small Benjamin M. Smith, Jr.
and Mrs. Dean Smith
and Mrs. Thomas F. Smith and Mrs. John J. Sottile Gary Staples
and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton and Mrs. A. Stutzer
.and Mrs. William A. Sullivan and Mrs. William N. Sumerwell . Mary S. Swanson
. and Mrs. Richard O. Swim
. and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott
Evalyn Taylor . May Day Taylor Gregory B. Thagard
Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 591
Dr. Arthur L. Thiele
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Thomas Mr. and Mrs. Brian Thomson Mrs. Vincent M. Throop
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip Tiger
Mr. Neil Tillotson
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Tralla Mr. John G. Truel
Mr. John H. Turner
Col. Caroline E. Van Mason Mr. Dale E. Vaughn
Dr. Joseph Walker
Mr. Richard B. Wallace
Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Wechsler Gen. Sarah P. Wells
Ms. Annette P. Whatley
Mr. Dennis A. Wheeler
Mrs. Mary H. Wiebe
Mrs. Vivian Wildman
Dr. Mr.
and Mrs. Charles A. Wilingham and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson and Mrs. Clarke M. Williams
Ms. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.
Louise Woerner
David L. Wood
and Mrs. Nelson Wurz
and Mrs. Frederick B. Wynn and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney and Mrs. Gary B. Yost Bernard J. Young
Gregory B. Young
and Mrs. Thomas E. Zitter and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc

<<<Page: 602>>>

APPENDIX 10. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1981 National — Smithsonian Arts and Natural Air and Freer Museum of Institution Industries History Space Gallery American” Month Building Building Building Building of Art History October 1980 74,701 79,056 290,352 446,949 32,358 308,489 November 47,758 68,308 323,023 407,369 22,963 243,327 December 40,994 52,244 2G; oilel 297,739 19,358 229,339 January 1981 33,790 927202 234,242 329,841 16,890 244,735 February 44,007 58,738 234,857 348,882 16,770 260,001 March 67,970 74,065 358,866 527,138 24,170 363,698 — April 124,301 130,735 704,015 977 187 32,082 748,981 . May 102,246 131,461 620,658 918,756 31,024 639,371 June 118,494 139,570 524,298 814,848 27,809 581,725 July 120,465 159,072 633,765 1,028,473 29,996 740,645 August 114,592 151,923 589,576 959,415 29,358 573,045 — September 66,872 77,278 266,573 482,357 22,663 229,096 TOTALS 956,190 1,174,702 4,998,736 7,538,954 305,411 5,162,452 b American Anacostia Museum Art & RenNeighborCooperof Portrait wick Hirshhorn hood Hewitt African ‘ Month Gallery Gallery Museum Museum Museum Art Totals — October 1980 31,792 20,920 64,184 Pay P2 9,567 6,184 1,367,264 November 48,308 23,993 72,254 2,499 8,589 6,002 1,273,95. 3 December 25,276 17,542 60,704 Closed 13,696 6,375 981,778 January 1981 27,289 29,410 68,097 38 7,610 5,068 1,049,262 February 27,919 14,366 66,685 7,513 9,500 5,422 1,094,660 March 27,594 21,813 71,086 3,776 11,414 9,157 1,560,747 April 31,164 20,932 94,778 Spalh 10,553 8,700 2,886,54 =I May 27,008 17,379 89,757 2,436 14,997 8,292 2,603,385 June 33,648 16,688 88,269 2,449 13,494 8,326 2,369,618 July 37,704 33)923 96,421 4,155 16,551 27,600 2,928,770 August 38,112 15,389 93,025 3,007 20,484 6,636 2,594,562
September 28,414 11,985 59,545 2,007 10,470 4,552 1,261,78 2 TOTALS 384,228 243,900 924,805 33,709 146,925 102,314 21,972,326
Note: Not reflected in the above tabulation are an estimated 3,300,000 visitors to the National Zoological Park in calendar year 1981. The very nature of the Park, with its indoor and outdoor exhibits and its several vehicular and pedestrian entrances, makes it impossible to obtain exact visitor statistics. To overcome this difficulty, NZP has developed a reliable sampling system, which was used to determine the — 1981 estimate.
592 / Smithsonian Year 1981

<<<Page: 603>>>



<<<Page: 604>>>



<<<Page: 605>>>

ok oe ¥o “4 0
i ag a xt iA ee & pe Pete .

<<<Page: 606>>>



<<<Page: 607>>>



<<<Page: 608>>>



<<<Page: 609>>>

