<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>

wi lL
Programs and A\ctivities

<<<Page: 3>>>

WP) nah

<<<Page: 4>>>

Programs and Activities
The Smithsonian Year 1978, Statement by the Secretary,
including the Financial Report of the Smithsonian Institution,
is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.

<<<Page: 5>>>

AiR aa AR *
Mk J

<<<Page: 6>>>

Programs and Activities
Smithsonian Institution Press * City of Washington * 1979

<<<Page: 7>>>

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 79-640936
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, D.C., 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047—000—00354—7

<<<Page: 8>>>

The Smithsonian Institution
The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America “‘to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an “‘establishment,” whose statutory members are the President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.
Jimmy Carter, President of the United States Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State W. Michael Blumenthal, Secretary of the Treasury Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense Griffin B. Bell, Attorney General Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior Bob S. Bergland, Secretary of Agriculture Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Commerce F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Labor Joseph A. Califano, Jr.,.Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Brock Adams, Secretary of Transportation James R. Schlesinger, Secretary of Energy

<<<Page: 9>>>

Board of Regents and Secretary September 30, 1978
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Senate
Barry Goldwater, Member of the Senate
Robert B. Morgan, Member of the Senate
George H. Mahon, Member of the House of Representatives Elford A. Cederberg, Member of the House of Representatives Leo J. Ryan, Member of the House of Representatives
Anne Armstrong, citizen of Texas
J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia
John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island
William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York
Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California
Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of the District of Columbia
A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut
James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia
Warren E. Burger, Chancellor (Board of Regents) William A. M. Burden
Caryl P. Haskins
James E. Webb (Chairman)
S. Dillon Ripley
Dorothy Rosenberg, Executive Assistant to the Secretary Michael Collins, Under Secretary
John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science
Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
T. Ames Wheeler, Treasurer
Peter G. Powers, General Counsel
Richard L. Ault, Director, Support Activities
James McK. Symington, Director, Membership and Development Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator, Public Information

<<<Page: 10>>>

page v
123 126 131 135 142 143 149 161 164
176 179 181 185
Smithsonian Year 1978
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
Fort Pierce Bureau
National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man National Museum of Natural History
National Zoological Park
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Radiation Biology Laboratory
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Archives of American Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design and Decorative Arts Freer Gallery of Art
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers
National Collection of Fine Arts
National Museum of History and Technology
National Portrait Gallery
Office of American and Folklife Studies
Conservation Analytical Laboratory National Museum Act Program Office of Exhibits Central
Office of Horticulture

<<<Page: 11>>>

page 189 Lon 197 198 200 204
Pali
200 216 29 222. 226 227 228 230 231
235 236 244
Zsilt 292 254 7x5) 5)
261 281 285 291 295
MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued
Office of International Activities
Office of Museum Programs
Office of the Registrar
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Division of Performing Arts
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Exposition Books
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
National Board of Smithsonian Associates Smithsonian National Associate Program Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Administrative Activities
Financial Management Activities
Support Activities
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities
Vili

<<<Page: 12>>>

Smithsonian Year + 1978 CHRONOLOGY
The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the year. No attempt has been made to make it a complete compilation of all Smithsonian activities.
1977 October
October 1
RESEARCH: The first comprehensive global model of the Earth’s gravity field was produced, using laser tracking data from field stations of the SmithsonianHarvard Center for Astrophysics and data from Geos-3 satellite.
RESEARCH: Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies began a study of Coaches Island ecology to determine the impact of a dense deer population on a small island.
EXHIBITION: “Splendors of Nature,” a permanent hall in the National Museum of Natural History, opened with hundreds of objects selected solely for their beauty.
EDUCATION: The Resident Associate Program instituted a program for adults in which some 69 scholarships were awarded during the year through the Office of Adult and Continuing Education of the D.C. Public Schools.
ORIENTATION PROGRAM: The first of eight programs sponsored by the National Associate Program was initiated to provide participants in the Travel Program charter trips with information on countries to be visited—Russia, Turkey, Kenya, Italy, France, and Scotland.
EXHIBITION: “Kenneth Noland: A _ Retrospective” opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and at the Corcoran Galley of Art in a pioneering cooperative venture by two of Washington’s leading museums of contemporary art.

<<<Page: 13>>>

October 2
October 5—10
October 10
October 12
October 14
October 15
October 16
October 18
PUBLICATIONS: Smithsonian Exposition Books was established for the purpose of producing popular education books.
CONCERT SERIES: First of 16 chamber music concerts was presented by the Division of Musical Instruments in cooperation with the Friends of Music at the Smithsonian and the Division of Performing Arts.
CONCERT SERIES: Jazz Heritage series, sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts, began a new season with well-known jazz musicians in concerts and free workshop rehearsals.
SPECIAL EVENT: The eleventh annual Festival of American Folklife featured the Virginia folk culture, energy, African diaspora, native Americans, and A Nation of Nations.
CONCERT SERIES: Theater Chamber Players, in residence at the Smithsonian, performed the first of five concerts.
SPECIAL EVENT: Andrei Voznesensky, widely respected Soviet poet, appeared at the Library of Congress reading from his works as part of his fellowship at the Kennan Institute, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
AWARDS: James Smithson Society medals were awarded to 18 at a dinner honoring the James Smithson Society and the National Board of Smithsonian Associates.
SPECIAL EVENT: First “James Smithson Society Day” featured tours, coffee hour, and luncheon at the National Air and Space Museum and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, with a personal welcome by Joseph Hirshhorn.
EXHIBITION: “Treasures from the Dibner Collection” opened in the Dibner Library at the National Museum of History and Technology.
CONCERT SERIES: The first of three programs in the Blues series, sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts, was presented at the National Museum of Natural History.
DANCE: First of three programs of ‘People and Their Culture,” a series of dances, film, and music of ancient cultures, was presented by the Division of Performing
Arts.
ACQUISITION: A 75-carat emerald, believed to have been owned by Abdul Hamid II of the Ottoman Em-
2 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 14>>>

October 20
October 20-22
October 21
October 28
November
November 4
November 5
November 8
November 9
pire, was given to the Smithsonian by Mrs. Stewart Hooker of New York.
LECTURE: James R. Buckler, Director, lectured on the “Horticultural Extravaganza of the Victorian Era” in the first outreach program of the Office of Horticulture. The lecture was held at the Midwest Antiques Forum, Henry Form Museum, in Dearborn, Mich.
CONFERENCE: The annual meeting of the Society for the History of Technology was held at the National Museum of History and Technology.
PUBLICATION: The Smithsonian Experience, colorful impressions of the Smithsonian in text and photographs, was published by Smithsonian Exposition Books.
EXHIBITION: “French Folk Art,” with approximately 125 objects from the Musée des Arts et Traditions in Paris, opened at the Renwick Gallery; later circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
EXHIBITION: The champagne-colored 67.89 carat Victoria-Transvaal Diamond, largest and most valuable gem gift to the Smithsonian since the Hope Diamond, and a gift of Leonard and Victoria Wilkinson, was placed on display at the National Musem of Natural History.
RESEARCH: Terrestrial ecologists at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies initiated research on maintaining bird and plant diversity at the Center.
CONCERT: A series of free lunchtime concerts, held weekly through January 1978, began at the National Museum of History and Technology and featured the U.S. Navy Band jazz ensemble, The Commodores.
CONCERT SERIES: Music from Marlboro, first of three concerts of chamber music from the summer festival in Vermont, was sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts.
LECTURE: Dr. Marie Lukens Swietochowski, Associate Curator of Islamic Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art, spoke at the Freer Gallery of Art on “Prophets and Kings in Persian Paintings” in the annual series on oriental art sponsored by the Freer.
AWARD: Japan’s Order of the Sacred Treasure, Third Grade, was awarded posthumously to Harold Stern, late director of the Freer Galley of Art, by Emperor
Chronology / 3

<<<Page: 15>>>

November 15
November 15
November 20
November 20-22
November 27
November 28
December
December 1
Hirohito of Japan. The award, rarely given to foreigners, was in recognition of Stern’s contribution to the understanding of Japanese art and culture in the United States.
EXHIBITION: “Early American Silhouettes by Auguste Edouart,” profiles in silhouette of many important Americans in the second quarter of the nineteenth century, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
EXHIBITION: ‘More than Meets the Eye,” the first major show from the holdings of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, opened with nearly 400 items representing every department of the Museum.
SPECIAL EVENT: First of a series of public sketch-ins was held at the National Zoo, with local artists assisting, as part of the Smithsonian’s participation in the international celebration of the World Wildlife Fund.
SAMPLER WEEKEND: One of three weekends for members of the National Associates with special tours and lectures in five museums on the Mall.
CONCERT SERIES: American Popular Music series began, presented by the Division of Performing Arts.
opENING: A bookstore/gallery at the National Zoo featuring animal-related merchandise was opened by Friends of the National Zoo.
HONORED: Drs. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant were honored for outstanding achievement by the Director of the National Museum of Natural History following publication of the final volume of “Permian Brachiopods of West Texas,” a work hailed as a paleontological classic.
AWARDS: Two Smithsonian films won Golden Eagle awards from the Council on International Nontheatrical Events: The Smithsonian with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, and Tiger, a documentary on the endangered Bengal Tiger.
ACQUISITION: The Beatles’ Rolls Royce was given to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum by John Lennon and Yoko Ono and will be exhibited in “Ornament in the Twentieth Century” in October 1978.
EXHIBITION: The first in a new program of sales exhibitions of American crafts opened at the Renwick Gallery.
EXHIBITION: “Atom Smashers: Fifty Years,” the history
of atomic technology, opened at the National Museum of History and Technology.
4 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 16>>>

December 3
December 8
December 9
December 9-11
December 11
December 16
December 19
December 22
December 26
December 31
SPECIAL EVENT: Hirshhorn Holiday: A Celebration for Children was held at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
EXHIBITION: “The Subway,” showing subways around the world, was installed in a New York City subway station by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Eighteen cities and countries subsequently requested the exhibition and in March 1978 it began a tour by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
OPENING: Zoolab, a library of objects as well as books, opened at the National Zoo, designed for visitors of all ages to learn more about the animals at the Park.
CHRISTMAS WEEKEND: The National Associates Program’s sixth annual “Christmas at the Smithsonian” featured lectures, tours, and tree trimming.
CONCERT SERIES: Jazz Connoisseur series, sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts, began with the first of three concerts.
EXHIBITION: “The Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd Wright” opened at the Renwick Gallery, featuring Wright’s designs for furnishings as well as architecture.
EXHIBITION: ““The Trees of Christmas,” twelve ethnic and American period trees, displayed handcrafted ornaments in the National Museum of History and Technology, the first exhibition by the Smithsonian’s Office of Horticulture.
ACCESSION: The National Collection of Fine Arts formally accessioned Rembrandt Peale’s oil painting Roman Daughter, a gift from the Smithson Society.
EXHIBITION: ““The Malaspina Expedition,” depicting the voyages of Alejandro Malaspina along the American northwest coast in the late 1700s, opened in the National Museum of History and Technology.
EXHIBITION: The first major exhibition of the art of Gregory Gillespie opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
SPECIAL EVENT: A seven-day, old-fashioned Christmas celebration, co-sponsored by the National Museum of History and Technology and the Division of Performing Arts, opened with music, puppet shows, demonstrations, tours, films, and ethnic foods.
accession: Albert Bierstadt’s oil painting Western Landscape with Lake and Mountains, a bequest of Helen Huntington Hull, was formally accessioned by the National Collection of Fine Arts.
Chronology / 5

<<<Page: 17>>>

January
January 2
January 8
January 9-13
January 10
January 15
January 16
January 18
January 25
INSTALLATION: The Change Coupled Device (CCD) Camera and the “Red Shift Machine,” two new electronic devices designed to enhance the observation capabilities of conventional telescopes, were put into operation at Mount Hopkins, Arizona, in preparation for use on the multi-mirror telescope.
APPOINTMENT: Professor Charles Gibbs-Smith, Science Museum in London, became the first appointee to the Charles Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History.
CONCERT: Pete Seeger and Washington-based group Sweet Honey in the Rock presented an evening of protest songs from colonial times to today, sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts.
worksHoPp: The Office of Museum Programs conducted a workshop in which nine employees of the Museum of the Cherokee Indians in New York visited to gain professional exposure to museum operations and to meet individually with corresponding persons in the Smithsonian.
LECTURE: Dr. Pratapaditya Pal, Curator of Indian Islamic Art, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, spoke at the Freer Gallery of Art on “Early Indian Bronzes.”
SPECIAL EVENTS: The National Portrait Gallery unveiled the John Singleton Copley self-portrait, a gift from the Cafritz Foundation.
LECTURE: The first program in an autobiographical series entitled ‘Living Self-Portraits’’ was presented by the National Portrait Gallery. The series featured Harry Bridges, Lee Strasberg, Robert Moses, and Dr. Karl Menninger.
ACQUISITION: The Chase Manhattan Money Collection of more than 24,000 pieces, from primitive exchange to world currencies and financial documents, was given to the Smithsonian’s National Museum of History and Technology.
SERIES: “Key Issues in Science Today,” first of five panel discussions, was scheduled by the Resident Associate Program with a grant from the National Science Foundation.
REGIONAL EVENTS: Exhibitions, workshops, lectures, and performing arts events were presented in Hawaii
-by the National Associates Program for members, the
first of a series of similar programs scheduled thoughout the year in Texas, North Carolina, Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio, and Arizona.
6 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 18>>>

January 26
January 30
January 31
February
February 10
February 12
February 14
March
March 1
LAUNCH: The International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE) Satellite was launched; it carried the first spectrographic instrument designed for celestial observations across a wide range of ultraviolet wavelengths. Data provided is being used by two Smithsonian teams and other astronomers.
SEMINAR: The Latin American Program of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars began a program in which various aspects of the Caribbean were covered in discussions held throughout the year.
SPECIAL EVENT: The first Wernher von Braun Memorial Lecture was held at the National Air and Space Museum to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the launching of the first American earth satellite.
RECORD RELEASE: Five new albums were released by the Division of Performing Arts: three in the American Musical Theater series, Music for Harpsichord, and Duke Ellington 1939.
visit: Her Hoyal Highness Princess Alia of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, daughter of King Hussein, toured the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.
EXHIBITION: “The Frederick Douglass Years’’ opened at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, tracing the life of the nineteenth-century human rights leader.
LECTURE: The Embassy of Japan co-sponsored with the Freer Gallery of Art a program on Japanese sculpture with speaker Dr. Christine Guth Kanda of Princeton University.
EXHIBITION: ““Aspects of Art and Science” opened at the National Museum of History and Technology.
NEW PROGRAM: The Resident Associate Program established a special service to furnish simultaneous translation of Associate programs to hearing-impaired persons.
EXPERIMENT: Using an elephant that had died at the Boston Zoo, archeologist Dennis Stanford, National Museum of Natural History, conducted a unique experiment proving, among other findings, that Ice Age hunters could have butchered a mammoth with tools made on the spot from the animal’s own bones.
PUBLICATION: The inaugural issue of Air and Space, a mini-magazine for educators, was published by the National Air and Space Museum.
EXHIBITION: “Photographing the Frontier,” second in a two-part exhibition circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, opened at the Museum of History and Technology.
Chronology / 7

<<<Page: 19>>>

March 3-8
March 5
March 6
March 11
March 16
March 19
March 27-29
March 28
March 31
April
AWARD: A Victorian parterre designed by the Office of Horticulture, one of two exhibitions installed by this office at The Flower Show, District of Columbia Armory, received two awards.
DANCE: An evening of Victorian ballroom dancing in the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery was sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts.
Discovery: A letter dated May 17, 1784, from General George Washington was found in the Harry F. Guggenheim ballooning print collection of the National Air and Space Museum.
LECTURE: Historian Benjamin Quarles lectured on abolitionist Frederick Douglass, at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. The program coincided with the publication of a Douglass speech that was presented in 1875 and 1877.
EXHIBITION: “Europe in the Seventies: Aspects of Recent Art,” the first full-scale exhibition devoted entirely to avant-garde European art of this decade, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
CONCERT SERIES: The Division of Performing Arts sponsored the first in a series of American Country Music programs.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE: “The United States, U.S. Foreign Policy, and Latin American and Caribbean Regimes,”” took place at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, one of more than 150 meetings held during the year.
LECTURE: Douglas Trumbull, creator of special effects for the movie Close Encounters of the Third Kind, spoke at the National Air and Space Museum, presented by the Resident Associate Program.
EXHIBITION: ‘Maria Martinez: Five Generations of Potters” opened at the Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Related films, lectures, and a demonstration by the Martinez family were scheduled throughout the exhibit.
EXHIBITION: The General Aviation Gallery, National Air and Space Museum, reopened with a new format and design.
PUBLICATION: “Endangered and Threatened Plants of the United States’ was published jointly by the
_ Smithsonian and the World Wildlife Fund; it is de-
signed for use by the Department of the Interior in developing official lists of plants to be protected.
8 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 20>>>

April 1
April 2
April 3-6
April 6
April 11
April 13
April 15
PUBLICATION: An encyclopedic handbook on California Indians, the first of 20 volumes on the history and culture of North American Indians and Eskimos, was published by the Center for the Study of Man.
PILOT PROGRAM: The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies initiated an ecological enrichment series for gifted and talented children.
RESEARCH: Results of the ongoing Langley-Abbot Solar Research Program of Smithsonian-Harvard Center for Astrophysics revealed a significant decrease in the rotation rate of sunspots accompanying a general rise in solar acivity over the same period.
SEMINAR: “The USSR and the Sources of Soviet Policy,” a two-month series of seminars presented by the Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies, began at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
EXHIBITION: “In Honor of William Harvey,” historical documents in the field of medicine, opened in the Dibner Library at the National Museum of History and Technology, prepared by the Office of Smithsonian Institution Libraries.
SPECIAL EVENT: The Hutchinson Family Concert, a reconstruction of a mid-19th century American musical event, was performed at the Renwick Gallery, sponsored jointly by the Gallery and the Divisions of Musical Instruments and Performing Arts.
worksHopP: The Office of Museum Programs conducted a workshop in “Design and Production of Exhibits for Art Museums.”
SEMINAR: First of five seminars on United StatesKorean Relations began, sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
LECTURE: Dr. Max Loehr, Professor Emeritus of Oriental Art, Harvard University, spoke at the Freer Gallery of Art on the evolution of the dragon motif.
visir: Mrs. Elena Ceausescu, wife of the President of Romania, visited the National Museum of History and Technology for a luncheon with First Lady Rosalynn Carter, followed by a tour of the collections.
SPECIAL EVENT: A series of three demonstration programs began at the National Portrait Gallery, featuring silhouette cutting, Kabuki make-up, and police artist sketching.
EXHIBITION: “Chinese, Japanese and Korean Ceramics” opened at the Freer Gallery of Art, including approxi-
Chronology / 9

<<<Page: 21>>>

April 16
April 19
April 20
April 22
April 24
mately 350 objects from the neolithic period to the end of the nineteeth century.
EXHIBITION: “Phil Ratner’s Washington,” sculpture depicting scenes from everyday life, opened at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. Twenty-five portraits of outstanding members of the Anacostia community were also included.
SPECIAL EVENT: A chick was hatched at the National Zoo, the second offspring of the Zoo’s pair of bald eagles, a protected species.
visit: First Lady Rosalynn Carter visited the National Museum of Natural History to tour “Treasures of Mexico: From the Mexican National Museums,” an exhibition of 150 masterworks by Mexican artists from pre-Columbian times to 1900.
EXHIBITION: “Exhibition Flight,” the first traveling exhibition from the National Air and Space Museum collections, began its tour at the San Antonio Transportation Museum, circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
APPOINTMENT: Michael Collins, Director of the National Air and Space Museum for seven years, was appointed Under Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
PUBLICATION: “Black Women: Achievement Against the Odds,” a 1978-1980 calendar, was published by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Servce in conjunction with its exhibition of the same name.
AWARD: The Smithsonian Associate, monthly newsletter of the Resident Associate Program, received the annual Metropolitan Area Mass Media award for the best “locally published periodical.”
AWARD: America As Art, by Joshua C. Taylor, Director, National Collection of Fine Arts, and published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, was selected by the Association of College and Research Libraries as winner in the category ‘“Oustanding Academic Book.”
EXPEDITION: A major expedition was launched by the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center to assist Philippine scientists in gathering and identifying little-known shore flora and fauna of the central Philippines and to establish baseline data by which to measure future environmental change.
PuBLIcITY: Beginning with May events, the Smithsonian Calendar was published in the Washington
10 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 22>>>

May 3
May 4
May 6
May 8
May 9-23
May 15
June
Star and the Washington Post as an advertisement. The change made information on Smithsonian events available to a wider audience in the Washington metropolitan area.
EXHIBITION: “The TIME of Our Lives,” featuring the original artwork for 107 TIME Magazine covers of the last 20 years, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
EXHIBITION: The first exhibition of the Smithsonian Archives opened honoring Spencer F. Baird, second Smithsonian Secretary and one of America’s greatest nineteenth-century scientists and scientific administrators.
DEDICATION: A Leonard Baskin sculpture of Spencer F. Baird, second Secretary of the Institution, was unveiled in the Smithsonian’s Victorian Garden.
SPECIAL EVENT: Fourth annual Teacher’s Day, sponsored by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, introduced a major Smithsonian summer workshop series.
ANNIVERSARY: National Collection of Fine Arts celebrated ten years in the Old Patent Office Building.
TRAVEL: Two scientists of the National Zoo and directors of five other American zoos visited the People’s Republic of China. The tour was initiated by National Zoo Director Theodore Reed to consult on the maintenance and breeding of Giant Pandas.
SPECIAL EVENT: The Fifth Annual Benefit Auction of Donated Objects at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum raised over $119,000 for the Museum educational programs and exhibitions.
COMPLETION: Construction of the Multiple Mirror Telescope (MMT) was completed at the Mount Hopkins Observatory and an intensive testing program begun. The mnt is a joint project of the Smithsonian-Harvard Center for Astrophysics and the University of Arizona.
SATELLITE TRACKING: The laser tracking network of the Smithsonian-Harvard Center for Astrophysics played a major role in tracking the new nasa Seasat satellite, particularly in support of the ocean-surface altimeter experiment.
EDUCATION: The education staff of the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmenal Studies began ecology-related activities for preschool children and their parents.
Chronology / 11

<<<Page: 23>>>

June 6
June 8
June 9
June 9-10
June 11
June 13
June 15
June 17
June 19
June 26-30
RESEARCH: The first simultaneous observations of optical and x-ray emissions from a so-called “cosmic burster” were made by scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology using the SAS-3 satellite and a Smithsonian researcher using a telescope at the Cerro Tololo Observatory in Chile.
ACQUISITION: The collection of the Jacques Elegmann Inc. art gallery in New York City was acquired by the Archives of American Art. The collection, containing 100,000 twentieth-century items, is one of the single largest collections of records on art and artists.
PERMANENT EXHIBITION: “Western Civilization: Origins and Traditions,” opened in the National Museum of Natural History.
CONFERENCE: “Political Implications of Contemporary Russian Nationalism” was sponsored by the Kennan Institute of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
SELECTED sTubDIES: A study program on Horticulture: A Practical Approach to 18th-20th Century Gardening was conducted by the Office of Horticulture and sponsored by the National Associates Program for its members; this was the first of five week-long study programs in specialized areas of interest using the Smithsonian resources and staff for instruction.
EXHIBITION: “Past and Present: A Century and a Half of a National Collection” opened at the National Collection of Fine Arts.
REFERENCE SERVICE: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries initiated a new reference service with online bibliographic data base searching.
EXHIBITION: ‘“The Noble Buyer: John Quinn, Patron of the Avant Garde” opened with 80 key works from one of the most important modern art collections ever assembled.
AWARDS: Four Emmys were awarded to the film Celebrating a Century, produced by the Motion Picture Unit, Office of Exhibits, by the Washington Chapter, National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
EDUCATION: Thirty-five high school seniors were assigned to work in several Smithsonian departments under an eight-week program of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.
worksHoP: The Office of Museum Programs conducted a new workshop on “Information Management and Automation in Museums.”
12 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 24>>>

June 28
June 30
July
July 1
July 4
APPOINTMENT: At White House ceremonies Wilton S. Dillion, Director of the Smithsonian Office of Seminars and Symposia, was made an honorary member of the United States National Commission for the International Year of the Child.
EXHIBITION: “Flying for Fun,” an exhibition on the many forms of recreational flying, opened at the National Air and Space Museum.
RESEARCH: Working in a shipboard laboratory off Hawaii during July and August, zoologist Dr. Claude F. E. Roper, National Museum of Natural History and colleague Dr. Richard Young made revolutionary advances in the knowledge of bioluminescence in squids and fishes.
RESEARCH: Analysis of data during July and August from the International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE) satellite revealed that conditions in the center of some globular clusters indicate the presence of an extremely dense mass, likely a black hole.
RESEARCH: Dr. Brian Mason, scientist at the National Museum of Natural History, discovered a new class of meteorites while examining a large accumulation of meteoritic material collected in the Antarctic by a National Science Foundation expedition.
PUBLICATION: The Insect Zoo was published, the second in a series of low-priced color guides to the permanent exhibit halls of the National Museum of Natural History.
CONSERVATION: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum began operating a textile conservation laboratory, funded by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation. A paper conservation lab is being developed under the same funding.
SPECIAL EVENT: A four-day traditional Fourth of July Celebration with oratory, music, parades, and clowns, began in and around the National Museum of History and Technology, produced by the Museum and the Division of Performing Arts.
NEW ROLE: The headquarters of the Minor Planet Center of the International Astronomical Union moved to the Smithsonian-Harvard Center for Astrophysics (cra), making the cra the world’s clearinghouse for information concerning virtually all new astronomical discoveries.
EXHIBITION: “Printed, Painted and Dyed: The New Fabric Surface” opened at the Renwick Gallery.
Chronology / 13

<<<Page: 25>>>

July 9
July 11
July 19
July 20
July 25
July 26
July 30
August
August 1
August 9
August 11
MILESTONE: The National Air and Space Museum welcomed the 20 millionth visitor since its opening on July 1, 1976.
CONCERT SERIES: The first of eight free weekly garden concerts and dance performances was presented at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
ACQUISITION: Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus, Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, and Secretary S. Dillon Ripley accepted the monumental scrap-iron sculpture Isis at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, a gift of the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel, Inc., created by artist Mark diSuvero.
ACQUISITION: First Lady Rosalynn Carter presented her inaugural gown to the National Museum of History and Technology. Secretary Ripley accepted on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution.
PUBLICATION: A new general information brochure was published for free distribution to visitors in all Smithsonian museums.
Acquisition: The fourth in a set of four Japanese Shitenno, polychrome wood guardian kings from the Kamakura period (1185-1332), was acquired by the Freer Gallery of Art.
EXHIBITION: “Henry Moore: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection” opened to commemorate Moore’s 8oth birthday.
SPECIAL EVENT: A white-winged wood duck, one of the rarest birds in the National Zoo’s collection, hatched at the Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia.
RECORD RELEASE: Four new albums were released by the Division of Performing Arts: John Kirby: The Biggest Little Band 1937-1941; Orchestrion: The Magnificant Music Machine; Souvenirs of Hot Chocolates; and Oh Kay!
PUBLICATION: The International Handbook of Aerospace Awards and Trophies, the first comprehensive reference source of its kind, was published by the National Air and Space Museum and the Smithsonian Institution Libraries.
PUBLICATION: The Smithsonian Archives published a guide to its record and manuscript holdings that will give scholars and the general public a more comprehensive introduction to the collection.
PERMANENT HALL: The Hall of American Maritime Enterprise, a history of commercial shipping in the
14 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 26>>>

August 17
August 28
September
September 3
September 5-7
September 9
September 11
September 11-12
United States, opened in the National Museum of History and Technology.
LEGISLATION: The House Committee on Public Works and Transportation approved legislation authorizing the construction of the Smithsonian’s Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland.
PUBLICATION: Excalibur III: The Story of a P-51 Mustang, the first book in the “Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum” series, was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
NEW PROGRAM: The Archives of American Art began a program in states without aaa regional offices to collect and film available art-related archival material of national interest, for deposit in both the originating states and the aaa headquarters.
NEW FACILITY: The Research Laboratory Wing was completed at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies.
SPECIAL EVENT: Second annual Frisbee Festival, sponsored by the National Air and Space Museum, featured demonstrations and workshops. It was the largest noncompetitive disc event ever held.
worksHop: “Audio-Visual Programs for Museums,” was conducted by the Office of Museum Programs for museum professionals throughout the country.
EXHIBITION: The first major touring project from the collections of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, “Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church,” was circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
PUBLICATION: A facsimile of the 1849 edition of Hints on Public Architecture, by Robert Dale Owen, Regent and Chairman of the Building Committee for the Design and Construction of the Castle, was printed by the Office of Membership and Development in cooperation with Da Capo Press.
LECTURE: Georges Henri Reviere, Paris, Permanent Advisor to International Council of Museums, spoke to members of the Washington museum community on the Eco-Museums in France, sponsored by the Office of Museum Programs.
CONFERENCE: “History as an Instrument of Policy Analysis,” was conducted by the International Security Studies Program, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Chronology / 15

<<<Page: 27>>>

September 12
September 13
September 14
September 15
September 16
September 20
September 21
September 22-23
September 23
NEW FACILITY: Smokey Bear Park at the National Zoo was opened to the public, featuring open, moated enclosures for several species of bears.
EXHIBITION: ““Women and Science” opened in the Dibner Library of the National Museum of History and Technology.
visit: Ben Abruzzo, Maxie Anderson, and Larry Newman, the crew of Double Eagle II, first manned balloon to complete a transatlantic crossing, were honored at a reception at the National Air and Space Museum.
OPENING: The Jo Davidson Room at the National Portrait Gallery opened with a display of 10 of the 42 works by Davidson owned by the Gallery.
PUBLICATION: The Magnificent Foragers was published by Smithsonian Exposition Books, depicting fieldwork by National Museum of Natural History scientists.
EXHIBITION: “Daum: 100 Years of Glass and Crystal,” the first major show in the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service international program, opened at the Mississippi Museum of Art.
SPECIAL EVENT: First of three “Portraits in Motion” presentations by the National Portrait Gallery featured Dolores St. Amand in dramatic re-creations from the life of Harriet Tubman.
LECTURE: Norman Lear, producer of “All in the Family,” spoke on the origins of that television series; the lecture was presented by the Resident Associate Program.
EXHIBITION: The National Portrait Gallery opened its first research exhibition in photography, entitled ““Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreotypes.”
CONFERENCE: “Latin America, the United States, and the World of the 1980’s,” a meeting for senior editors of major United States newspapers and monthly publications, was sponsored by the Latin American Program of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
LEGISLATION: The United States Senate enacted legislation previously passed by the House of Representatives making the Museum of African Art a part of the Smithsonian Institution, enabling the bill to go forward to the President for signature.
16 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 28>>>

September 24-26
September 26-28
September 28
September 27
September 30
EXHIBITION: “The First 4,000 Years: The Ratner Collection of Judaean Antiquities,” circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, began its tour at the University Art Museum, Austin, Texas.
CONFERENCE: “The Impact of International and Economic Disturbances on the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe” was sponsored by the Kennan Institute of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
CONFERENCE: International Association of Zoo Educators met at the National Zoo to discuss how to reach a variety of audiences.
FILMING: A general Smithsonian television public service announcement was filmed in the Victorian Garden, bringing together the Smithsonian Secretary and the museum directors with representative artifacts from the collections.
PERFORMER SERIES: Dance, poetry, and music from around the world was featured in a series of six performances, sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts.
TERMINATION: Smithsonian/Peace Corps international environmental project was terminated by the Peace Corps, ending eight years of cooperative effort involving placement of volunteers with scientific skills.
Chronology / 17

<<<Page: 29>>>

on view in the “Splendors of Nature” exhibit at the National Museum of Natural
One hundred and sixty million year old fossil Ammonites and Belemnites (polished) History. Photo by Chip Clark.

<<<Page: 30>>>

Smithsonian Year + 1978
THE PAST YEAR REPRESENTED a time of change for Science at the Smithsonian. Perhaps this period might be better described as one of maturation of our activities.
Michael Collins, who skillfully shepherded the new building of the National Air and Space Museum into existence, resigned his Director’s position to become the Institution’s new Under Secretary. The Museum has now reached a stage where future efforts will be focused on bringing the research and educational aspects into better balance with the highly successful public programs. A nationwide search to chose a suitable successor to lead this important Museum in the years ahead has begun.
The future of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute was further solidified with the signing and ratification of the new Panama Canal Treaties and their annexed agreements. Among the provisions of these documents is the designation of Barro Colorado Island and four adjacent peninsulas as part of a newly created Barro Colorado Nature Monument which str will hold as custodian for both governments. The Nature Monument is given further protection by the Organization of American States under the Western Hemisphere Convention of 1940 for the protection of nature and natural areas. Last March, a new administrative headquarters for strR1 was dedicated on the site of the old Tivoli Hotel in Panama City. The ceremony was attended by many members of the Panamanian government including its new President, Aristides Rojo.

<<<Page: 31>>>

After many years of planning, the Congress this past year, approved the creation of a Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland. The new facility when completed in 1983 will solve a longstanding collections space problem at the National Museum of Natural History, by providing up-to-date storage and preservation facilities for these valuable collections. Additionally, space will be devoted to conservation laboratories and the Oceanographic Sorting Center. In preparation for the move of the collections to Suitland, the Museum has a comprehensive program of inventory and preservation under way.
The first volume of the Handbook of North American Indians was published this past year representing the initial step in a 20volume series to chronicle our knowledge of America’s first inhabitants. With the appearance of this volume, the project was transfered from the Center for the Study of Man to the administration of the National Museum of Natural History to allow for the continuecl| growth of the other activities of the Center.
The primary mirrors for the Multiple Mirror Telescope were installed at the Mount Hopkins facility of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and first light has been received through the instrument. Construction continues at the site of this revolutionary telescope with plans for formal dedication in May 1979.
The National Zoological Park continued its successful program of renovation at its Rock Creek facility with the opening of the new bear lines, including a new home for one of its most famous tenants, Smokey the Bear. Concurrently, renovation continued on the buildings at the Conservation and Research Center at Front Royal, Virginia. Great strides have been made in the past year in the breeding and rearing of many highly endangered species.
The Cheaspeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies continued its program of developing a proper plant facility for the conduct of research on the estuarine systems of the Bay. The completion of a new laboratory wing increases the capability of the research staff to unlock the processes of a complex ecological system.
The Radiation Biology Laboratory has been exploring possible sites for a permanent home upon expiration of its lease at the present Rockville headquarters. The Laboratory has been handicapped by a lack of a proper greenhouse facility in fulfilling research objectives.
20 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 32>>>

A new Office of Fellowships and Grants was created in the past year. Combining the activities of the Office of Academic Studies and the Foreign Currency Program, the new organization will provide more centralized service in our programs in higher education while allowing for more efficient administration of these activities.
Although research continued to flourish in the science bureaus this past year, it has become evident that more effort is needed to improve their physical facilities. Construction and renovation plans are aimed at bringing the facilities up to current standards to assure that our research activities can maintain their high quality. The ability of the Smithsonian to provide long-term continuous monitoring of our globe through our research and collections sets this Institution apart from other enterprises in the United States and abroad, and makes it one of the world’s most important environmental data banks.
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
Ecological research and education are the primary activities at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (cBces). Principal themes in research include the comparative ecology of terrestrial communities with emphasis on the effects of past and present land use. Estuarine research is concerned with the response of biological populations to physical and chemical factors. These programs are integrated through an extensive watershed research program which monitors and analyzes runoff from the Rhode River watershed through a system of permanent gauging stations. Education programs include basic research on outdoor-centered learning and on the design and conduct of science education field trips for school groups. In addition, staff members focus on the development of curricula and public programs which emphasize the application of science to environmental issues.
Upland Ecology
Under Dennis Whigham and Daniel Higman, studies of vegetation dynamics and succession and the life cycles of individual plants are
Science / 21

<<<Page: 33>>>

being pursued along three lines: long-term monitoring of successful changes in an old field, a young forest, and a mature forest; the rates and long-term fluctuations of primary production and nutrient cycling under various land use conditions; and the manipulation of vegetation and habitats to study early stages of succession and the competitive impacts of woody vines.
Woody vines (poison ivy, grapevine, trumpet creeper, and honeysuckle) are successional species that, in part, determine the pathways of secondary succession. In areas of heavy vine growth, tree seedlings rarely survive and the sites remain vine-dominated indefinitely. The same species occur in all vegetation types with the exception of an undistributed island site. The vines, however, decrease in abundance during succession and their role in old aged forests remain, at present, unclear. Center investigators have determined that one vine, poison ivy, appears to be limited in its upward mobility and only rarely is found higher than 80 percent of the host trees’ total height. This relationship seems to hold for poison ivy in young and old forests, as well as in forests on wet and dry sites. Vines also have a negative influence on the growth of trees even after the crown of the trees reaches beyond the upper limit of the vines.
Collaborating in the Center’s monitoring of plant population under three different successional conditions are Beryl Simpson of the University of Texas and Paul Opler of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Their focus is the determination of patterns of breeding systems, seed dispersal, and seed size within the study sites. Their findings are being compared with those of related studies in tropical ecosystems.
Whigham and terrestial animal ecologist James Lynch are conducting field studies on the configurations of forest patches that are necessary to maintain bird and plant communities. The abundance and diversity of forest birds and plants are being studied as a factor of the size, degree of isolation, floristic composition phenology, and successional status of their forest habitat. Preliminary findings indicate that many of the species of insectivorous birds that migrate to the tropics are significantly reduced in abundance in smaller forest tracts in comparison with larger ones.
Lynch and Whigham are also collaborating on a study of the feeding behavior of the white-tailed deer population on Coaches
22 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 34>>>

Island (one of the Poplar Islands in Cheaspeake Bay). They are comparing the impact of the population on the diversity and quantity of plant material, both in the feeding area and in specially constructed exclosures. Two other islets of the Poplar Island group are the sites of a long-term study of the fate of non-native populations of white-footed mice. In the Rhode River watershed, Lynch and his colleagues are examining the effects of secondary plant succession and land use on the abundance and diversity of a number of different animal communities. Study plots range from active cornfields and pasture, through recently abandoned old fields, to middle and later successional deciduous forest. Data have been gathered for birds, large and small mammals, ants, litter anthropods, and understory anthropods.
The study of lawn sites by John Falk completes the range of land use types which are being studied at the Center. He is investigating the behavior of common lawn invertebrates, specifically their dispersal rates and their adaptations to frequent mowing. Most lawn insects show no movement as a function of mowing; however, the frit fly (Oscinella grit L.) shows a positive response to new-mowed lawns. Within twenty-four hours after mowing, populations of frit flies are once again evenly distributed between mowed and unmowed lawns.
Watershed Studies
Preliminary results from the testing stations installed by the Center in the Patuxent River drainage basin, last year, indicated moderate success in predicting the composition of runoff in Patuxent subwatersheds from runoff data drawn from the Rhode River watershed. In this study, Center investigators used statistical models based on land use and topography, which they first calibrated with sampling data from the Rhode River and then compared with data from the other drainage areas of the coastal plain. To assure the accurate characterization of variations in local rainfall and runoff patterns, a network of twenty-three rain gauges was installed throughout the Rhode River watershed.
Under the direction of Maria Faust, research continues on the contribution of runoff from the Rhode River watershed to bacterial pollution of the estuary. In spite of a small livestock population (as low as 0.6 animals per hectare), her work indicates that substantial
Science / 23

<<<Page: 35>>>

quantities of indicator bacteria discharge increases proportionately to basin-size and stream length. This indicates that bacterial discharge is flow dependent and that flow is determined by basin characteristics. As a result of these studies, she concludes that contamination of the estuary by bacteria of fecal origin in runoff may be a serious problem, requiring sound land use management practices for control.
Tung Lin Wu continues to analyze the heavy metal constituents of watershed runoff and rain water. His studies indicate that rain water in the Rhode River watershed contains relatively low concentrations of manganese and iron, but high concentrations of zinc. Except for iron and manganese, however, runoff loss to the river of most heavy metals ranges from only 3 to 70 percent of their rainfall output. Manganese concentrations are 9 to 23 times greater in runoff than in rain water.
Estuarine Research
The Center’s esturarine research program soon will be expanded by the addition of an estuarine animal ecologist. Current studies have been concentrating on four major areas: analysis of fish population dynamics in the Rhode River; investigation of factors involved in the disappearance of sea grasses in the Chesapeake Bay; studies of the biological activities of plankton; and water quality monitoring.
The primary focus of this year’s fish population research was a fecundity study on white perch in Muddy Creek, the main fresh water source of the Rhode River. Under Joseph Miklas’s direction, an analysis was undertaken of a “hatching success,” that is, the efficiency of a hatching on both white and yellow perch. Another study involved comparing the success of laboratory incubation to stream incubation of both fish. A survey of their larvae in Muddy Creek was also conducted. This year’s data supports the low population estimates of both fish. Presently unexplained, however, is the extremely poor catch of white perch and what appears to be a downward trend of this species. Further investigation is planned to explore these findings.
A team of investigators, led by Drs. Correll, Wu, and Jack W. Pierce of the National Museum of Natural History, is continuing to explore environmental factors which may be playing a part in the virtual disappearance of bay grasses in the Chesapeake Bay. Ten to twenty years ago, a number of species of higher plants grew
24 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 36>>>

O) ERR Go ier
rea REN, ‘< Ye
CULTIVATED RESIDENTIAL. oe ABANDONED BASED ON 1953 FARM PLAN . AND ON 1952 AERIAL PHOTO PASTURE/Hay >* MARSH 22 WOODLAND APPRox. SCALE ; 1"=300'-0"
This mapped image of recent land use techniques on a Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies holding is one of a series prepared by Center historian Amy Hiatt. Below. Preschoolers and parents are introduced to ecology at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies.

<<<Page: 37>>>

widely in the Chesapeake Bay as submerged plant beds. These dense beds stabilized bottom sediments and acted as wave filters to protect shorelines on the Bay. Their decline has been linked speculatively to increased rates of shoreline erosion in recent years. Coinciding with the decline of bay grasses has been the increased use of agricultural herbicides by area farmers in connection with the adoption of “no till” or minimum till agricultural methods. Sampling indicates that concentrations of two herbicides occur in suspended bay sediments. These may be toxic to bay grasses since the grasses trap sediments in their leaves. For the past three years, regrowths of the plants have been observed to die off after exposure to storm runoff. Efforts to provide more definitive answers to the dieoffs include bioassays on four species of the grasses in concentrations of herbicides similar to those found in surface waters and bay bottom sediments.
Maria Faust currently is assessing the quality of the Rhode River estuary through a detailed examination of indicator microorganisms. For purposes of analysis of the source of bacterial pollution, she has found that the contribution of the urban and rural sections of the river can be separated. The segments that receive runoff from pasture areas with large animal populations clearly contain a high number of indicator bacteria, whereas those receiving runoff from urbanized areas contained low cell counts. Seasonal trends appear to act similarly on both urban and rural segments, but the source of the bacteria changes. In the urbanized segments, during the summer, the source of indicator bacteria appears to be of human origin, whereas in the rural segments bacteria continue to be from animal sources. Faust has calculated the average daily number of indicator bacteria from both the rural and urban areas. She has also determined the number of bacteria per human and animal in the respective segments. As a result of these analyses, she estimates that the contribution of fecal coliform from one unit of livestock is equal to the contribution of 60—70 persons.
During 1978, cpces has continued its efforts in research and curriculum development in outdoor-centered environment education and strengthened information transfer and public programs by adding to the staff a permanent public information specialist.
26 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 38>>>

Research in Environmental Education
With the support of the National Science Foundation, John Falk and John Balling are completing a series of three studies that will lead to an increased understanding of student learning and behavior during outdoor science field trips. In addition, this research should lead to new directions for the improvement of outdoor-centered education. The first study manipulated the general field trip milieu in order to determine how the variety of environmental factors (e.g., day away from school, disruption of normal schedules, bus rides) surrounding the usual field trip interact with learning and behavior. In the second study, a survey was made of a representative, nationwide sample of elementary school teachers, elementary school principals, college science methods instructors, and nature center professionals to determine the attitudes and perceptions of each of these groups toward field trip experiences for children.
Previous research has suggested that both setting novelty and the number of concrete examples of the study material, (e.g., of trees, if trees are being studied; of working beehives, if bees are being studied) affect student learning and behavior. The third study, therefore, sought to manipulate environmental novelty and relevance independently in the context of an outdoor science activity. The data from each of these studies are presently being analyzed.
In the area of environmental psychology, new initiatives were made during 1978 by John Balling. First, in a study designed to determine the visual preference of humans for a number of biomes, the age range of subjects was extended to include infants under one year of age. Using a paradigm frequently employed in research on infant visual perception, infants were shown pairs of pictures or biomes, or natural settings, and the amount of time spent looking at each was recorded. The study indicated that the infants tended to gaze longest at the visually most complex picture, in this case a deciduous forest.
In another study, children of different ages were taken to Big Island, a 12-acre island located in the Rhode River, and allowed to explore the island freely for as long as they chose. During their exploration, the subjects were tracked by two observers. Following the exploration, they were asked to draw a map of the island and
Serene jf ey

<<<Page: 39>>>

were tested for recognition of specific sciences. From this study, the staff is beginning to document developmental trends in exploration patterns and information gathering strategies of the current study group, a group which ranges in age from 8-14.
Public Education Programs
Initiated in 1975, the teacher-led ecological activities program was designed to provide children with outdoor experiences which reinforce or introduce science concepts. Each activity is outlined in a brochure that includes background information for the teacher, objectives for the students. a step-by-step procedure section for the class, and suggested follow-up activities.
Two new curriculum development projects were undertaken. An estuarine ecology curriculum for 10to 15-year-old children will be completed in 1978. A second project is the design of family-centered environmental education materials utilizing common home environments. A pilot set of lawn activities was developed and will be published in 1978.
Another model concept in outdoor environmental education is the Center’s Summer Ecology Program. The program emphasizes community-centered learning. It is conducted in seven different locations away from the Center’s research facility. This approach helps familiarize children with the human and natural ecology of their own communities. Four college students and four high school students, selected as part of the Smithsonian’s Intern Program, implement and evaluate educational activities of their own design. At the end of the summer, the students conduct a one-day workshop on the outdoor education activities they have developed for the program. Environmental educators, science teachers, and other interested individuals are invited to participate.
A new area of public education for the Center is an introductory program in ecology for preschoolers and parents. Developed by education specialist Ann Coren and piloted this summer, the program brings children, ages 3-5, and their parents to work inand out-of-doors on learning basic ecological concepts.
Information Transfer
A major objective of the Information Transfer Program is to disseminate the Center’s scientific research findings to public groups
28 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 40>>>

that can use this information in making land-use and water-quality decisions. During 1978, cBces staff continued projects specifically aimed at publicizing the Center’s watershed and estuarine research findings.
The Center also provided support in the form of staff time and expertise to citizen organizations throughout the Chesapeake Bay region. Activities for these groups included helping to organize workshops and conferences, developing technical information on environmental issues, and helping to achieve citizen participation in land and water-quality planning.
With the addition of a public information officer, the Center began in the spring to expand its sharing of research and educational activities with the Smithsonian community and the media— in the form of news and feature articles—and to enlarge its tour and community outreach program.
The new laboratory wing, begun in the fall of 1977, was completed and occupied at the end of the year. In addition, the second floor of the Old Dominion Building was remodeled to provide additional office space. Work was also completed on the renovation of the Center’s research pier on the Rhode River.
Fort Pierce Bureau
The Smithsonian’s Fort Pierce Bureau is located on the central-east coast of Florida on an estuarine lagoon near the Atlantic Ocean. Research centers around life history studies of marine organisms and systematics and ecological studies of selected marine invertebrates of the Indian River lagoon and offshore continental shelf. An ideal locality for such studies, it is in a zoogeographic transitional zone where both tropical and temperate organisms are available for study and the Florida Current with its abundant supply of planktonic larvae is within easy access. A diverse fauna is found in the variety of habitats from the mangroves, sea-grass beds, and mud flats of the Indian River lagoon to the sandy beaches and worm reefs of the oceanic coast and the various substrata of the offshore continental shelf, including coquinoid limestone ledges, oculinid
Science / 29

<<<Page: 41>>>



<<<Page: 42>>>

Facing page. Dr. John Pilger, a postdoctoral fellow, collecting sipunculans from an oyster bed near a mangrove island in the Indian River, Fort Pierce, Florida. Right. Collecting oceanic larvae from surface plankton tows off the coast of Fort Pierce. Below, left. Larva of a sipunculan worm from the plankton of the Florida Current. Living specimen (magnification 80 X). Below, right. A common sipunculan worm found in the oyster beds of the Indian River estuary, and used in studies of reproductive biology in the Fort Pierce Bureau’s Life Histories Program (worm is about 3 cm in length, magnification is about 7 X).

<<<Page: 43>>>

coral reefs, and shell-hash plains. An established reference collection contains specimens of the local marine invertebrates and vertebrates. A small boat is available for work in the river and offshore waters, and the facility includes a transmission and scanning electron microscope for use in life history studies. There is limited space for visiting scientists.
During the past year various aspects of reproduction and larval development have been studied in a broad spectrum of marine invertebrates including sipunculans, echiurans, turbellarians, gastrotrichs, prosobranch molluscs, opisthobranch molluscs, decapod crustaceans, and echinoderms. This work represents the combined efforts of resident staff, postdoctoral fellows, scientists from the National Museum of Natural History, and visiting investigators from other institutions. The baseline information that is being accumulated on critical stages in reproduction and development is potentially useful in assessments of environmental stresses and modifications on populations of marine organisms. Moreover, such knowledge may contribute significantly to the clarification of taxonomic identities and the understanding of phylogenetic relationships among marine invertebrates.
Research on the life histories of sipunculan worms by Dr. Mary Rice has continued to emphasize studies on the systematics, morphology, and metamorphosis of larvae from open-ocean plankton as well as the reproductive biology of local species. Sipunculan larvae of unknown species, common in the surface plankton of the major currents of the North Atlantic Ocean, are believed to be transported by currents across the ocean. Thus knowledge of their systematics is important to an understanding of distribution and dispersal of sipunculans as well as to basic problems in zoogeography. For identification of species, larvae have been reared in the laboratory; several have been successfully cultured to the level of juvenile, and one to sexual maturity. The latter has been maintained for three years and identified as Golfingia misakiana, a species known to occur offshore from Fort Pierce. As part of this study, larvae have been found to undergo metamorphosis in response to a chemical factor produced by adults. In an analysis of functional morphology of the larva, ultrastructural data have been accumulated on their terminal attachment organs. Ultrastructural observations have also been made on the larval eye and will be used for
32 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 44>>>

comparisons with the adult eye of sipunculans and with the eyes of other coelomate protostomes.
Studies on reproductive biology of sipunculans were carried out by a postdoctoral fellow, Dr. John Pilger, on a species which is abundant in the oyster beds near the Fort Pierce inlet. The ratio of females to males is 9 to 1 in this population and spawned eggs have been found to develop normally without fertilization by the male. Facultative parthenogenesis, a primitive mode of reproduction, has not been previously reported for sipunculans.
Larvae of turbellarian worms occur in the plankton of the Indian River and the Atlantic Ocean. Little is known about these larval types and information on their metamorphosis is particularly scant. As the subject of a postdoctoral research project, Dr. Edward Ruppert studied these larvae in terms of their functional morphology, ultrastructure, settling behavior, and metamorphosis.
Visiting investigators contributed information on various aspects of reproduction of gastropod molluscs. Research by Dr. Michael Hadfield of the University of Hawaii determined reproductive patterns for local species of vermetid gastropods. He also studied mechanisms by which vermetids form nurse eggs; these eggs provide nutritional material for developing embryos and larvae, but for unknown reasons do not themselves undergo normal embryogenesis.
Reproduction and development of the prosobranch gastropod, Modulus modulus, a common species in the grass beds of the Indian River, were investigated by Dr. Richard S. Houbrick of the National Museum of Natural History. Gametes, spermatophores, egg masses, and larvae were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Larvae were found to undergo direct development; a descriptive study of their development and hatching was made.
Preliminary to a study on larval development and growth rates of selected opisthobranch molluscs, Dr. Larry Harris of the University of New Hampshire made a survey of opisthobranchs associated with certain coelenterates. The aeolid nudibranch Spurilla neopolitana, collected from the Sebastian Inlet and from Sargassum weed that had drifted in from the offshore Florida Current, is known to be a specialist on anemones and apparently changes its type of larval development in accordance with the nutritional state of the adult.
Science / 33

<<<Page: 45>>>

The life history of the deep-water sea urchin Coelopleurus floridanus has been studied by Dr. David Pawson of the National Museum of Natural History in collaboration with John Miller of the Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc. Larvae produced from artificial spawnings of males and females have been reared and maintained in the laboratory for several weeks. Larval development will be compared with the well-known development of the shallow-water urchin Arbacia punctulata in an assessment of taxonomic relationships of the two species.
Research by Dr. Robert Gore on crustacean biology continued to emphasize the systematics, larval development, morphology, and ecology of selected species of lagoonal and continental shelf decapod crustaceans. Studies included taxonomic and zoogeographic aspects of the Parthenopidae larval development of galatheid, porcellanid, grapsid, xanthid and majid crabs, gonopod morphology of species of Xanthidae and Goneplacidae from deeper continental shelf waters, and community and trophic analyses of seagrass and drift algae-associated macrocrustaceans in the Indian River lagoon. A long-term program on the systematic ecology of transpanamanian geminate and conspecific porcellanid and xanthid crabs continued, with specimens collected from both Caribbean and Eastern Pacific waters of Panama.
Visiting investigators conducted primarily physiological and ecological investigations on Indian River crustaceans. Postdoctoral research by Dr. Jack McDonald investigated niche differentiation in sympatric species pairs of tropical and subtropical estuarine brachyuran and anomuran crabs, including aspects of reproductive physiology, fecundity, breeding cycles, survivorship and recruitment of larvae, as well as general investigations on the anatomy and histology of brachyuran reproduction. Predoctoral research centered on morphology of anomuran crab mouthparts, larval development of a continental shelf xanthid crab, and an examination in field and laboratory situations of predator-prey relationships among seagrass-associated fish and caridean shrimp.
Research on foraminifera, directed by Dr. Martin Buzas of the Museum of Natural History, has emphasized the process that limits populations in the Indian River and the role of foraminiferans in the trophic structure of the estuary. In this subtropical setting, where seasonal changes are not rigorous, biotic influences are im-
34 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 46>>>

portant as limiting factors. Predation has been examined as a possible biotic control in a comparison of foraminiferan populations inside and outside of exclosure cages. Results of experiments which were run for four-month periods during three different years have demonstrated larger numbers of foraminifera inside than outside of the exclosures. Gut analyses of some fish and benthic invertebrates from the estuary have shown that a number of deposit feeders ingest foraminifera. In cooperation with the chemistry section of the Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc., seasonal fluctuations in foraminiferans are being compared with measurements of nutrients, trace metals, and organic carbon in sediment pore water.
Other projects on foraminifera include an offshore exclosure experiment in collaboration with the Benthic Ecology Section of the Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc., the laboratory culture of foraminifera, and a taxonomic survey of foraminiferal species throughout the estuary.
The established reference collections of invertebrate and vertebrate specimens from the Indian River region of Florida have been expanded with additional lots catalogued and the relevant data stored in a computerized data-retrieval program.
National Air and Space Museum
The new National Air and Space Museum (Nasm), completed in July 1976, continues to attract record-breaking crowds. Approximately ten million visitors per year tour the Museum, which is a national center for the collection, preservation, exhibition, and study of the history of flight.
In the past year, the staff has worked to implement research programs and to upgrade exhibit areas at the Museum on the Mall, as well as at the Museum’s annex, the Silver Hill Museum in Suitland, Maryland. Several outreach projects were initiated, and the Museum’s busy schedule of courses, films, and special lectures was continued.
Among the nasm’s more visible changes is a new gallery, Flying for Fun, which opened in June 1978. This exhibit covers the many ways in which various forms of flying can be enjoyed today. Fea-
Science / 35

<<<Page: 47>>>

tured in the gallery are kite flying, soaring, hang gliding, hot air ballooning, and sky diving. Also included are displays on flying discs, boomerangs, and model aircraft building. The model display is one of the most comprehensive ever assembled and embraces all aspects of model building as well as several models that are famous in their own right. The first production light plane, the Aeronca C-2, rests on the gallery floor.
In fiscal year 1978, work was completed on Exploring the Planets, a gallery which acquaints visitors with the growth of interest in the planets and moons of the solar system. It highlights current knowledge of the planets, the tools of exploration, individual space missions, and comparative planetology.
For each of the nine planets, there is an exhibit presenting the latest discoveries. Through the imaginative audiovisuals, visitors can ride aboard a spacecraft on a sightseeing trip to Venus and listen to weather reports from the various planets. For children, there is a musical tour of the Solar System.
The General Aviation gallery was completely redesigned in 1978. The theme of the new gallery is “Anyone Can Fly.” It has computer quizzes, with which visitors can test their knowledge of aviation subjects, and General Aviation Trainers (GAT-1s), that can be “flown” by visitors under the supervision of instructors. Other features are a cockpit view of the river approach to Washington National Airport, and three aircraft, a Learjet, a Piper Cub, and the Cessna 180 Spirit of Columbus, in which Jerrie Mock became the first woman to fly solo around the world.
Two small displays on famous pioneers of aviation have been opened in the Special Exhibits Gallery. The first summarizes the many and varied accomplishments of General James H. Doolittle, race pilot, test pilot, engineer, and leader of the Tokyo Raid. The second exhibit covers the career of Grover Loening, aircraft developer of amphibian aircraft.
Other exciting additions to the nasm include the Gossamer Condor, the mylar-winged aircraft which in 1977 won the Kremer Prize for the first successful human-powered flight, and an exhibit commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the Explorer I, this country’s first artificial satellite. In addition, the Museum was given the gondola of the Double Eagle II, the first balloon to complete a transatlantic crossing. It will be placed on display next year.
36 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 48>>>

Katherine Rinehart, the National Air and Space Museum's 20 millionth visitor, was greeted by Dr. David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science, and Melvin B.
Zisfein, Acting Director of the Museum, as she entered the Museum on Sunday, July 9, 1978. The Museum opened to the public on July 1, 1976. Below. Visitors gaze at the Saturn V F-1 engine in the Apollo to the Moon Gallery, rated by the NasM as the most outstanding gallery.

<<<Page: 49>>>

The world’s only “touchable” moon rock, housed in NAsM’s Milestones of Flight Gallery, is examined by millions of visitors who tour the Museum each year. Below. Ladder to the Moon by Georgia O'Keefe was one of the major additions to NAsM’s Flight and the Arts Gallery in 1978. The painting is on loan from the artist.

<<<Page: 50>>>

Changes at the Silver Hill Museum, the nasm’s preservation, restoration, and storage facility, culminated in the opening of a third building for public tour. In the past year over 7000 people visited the “no frills’ museum, which is open by appointment only. On continually changing display there are more than 100 aircraft, spacecraft, powerplants, and related objects from the Museum's reserve collection. A treasure for aviation buffs, often more planes can be seen at the Silver Hill Museum than in the Air and Space Museum on the Mall.
Major restorations accomplished at the Silver Hill Museum included three planes: the Aeronca C—2, the Lockheed XP-80, and the North American P—51. Work was started on the Bleriot, Curtiss Pusher, Langley Aerodrome, and Messerschmitt Me 262. In progress is a complete inventory of the portion of the Nasm’s collection stored at Silver Hill.
In addition to the exhibit modifications, changes have been made behind the scenes. Michael Collins, former Director of the Air and Space Museum, accepted the position of Under Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Melvin Zisfein, Deputy Director, was appointed Acting Director.
The Museum’s strong commitment to artifact loan programs and to assistance to other museums continued. During the past year, the astronautical department administered a loan program which includes approximately 1000 objects on display in 98 museums in the United States and abroad.
The Department’s contribution to the success of the Space Science Exposition opening in Tokyo, Japan, on July 16, 1978, is especially noteworthy. The largest exhibition of United States space hardware ever undertaken outside the United States, it was arranged with the cooperation of the nas, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the aerospace industry. Major artifacts on exhibit include the Saturn 1-B, MercuryRedstone, Mercury-Atlas, and Black Brant VC launch vehicles; the satellites ATS—6, ITOS, Vanguard, and Explorer; and Apollo, Gemini, and Mercury flown spacecraft.
As part of the Museum’s research program, a number of flightrelated historical studies were produced in the last fiscal year. The Museum’s Science and Technology Department prepared manuscripts on such topics as: the Guggenheim Contribution to Ameri-
Science / 39

<<<Page: 51>>>

can Aviation, Technology Transfer from the Flight Industries to the General Economy, a History of the Dryden Flight Research Center, Notable Contributors to Flight Technology, and a History of American Aviation in the Decade of the Twenties. A new aviation book series, Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum, was introduced by the Aeronautics Department with the publication of Excalibur III, the Story of a Mustang. A second volume is in progress and should be published in the fall of 1978. In addition, the fourth edition of Aircraft in Museums Around the World was compiled and published by the nas.
An oral history program, organized by Dr. Roger Bilstein, a visiting scholar from the University of Houston, was started by NASM in 1978. Approximately thirty-five aviation and space personalities were interviewed initially, and the program will continue in 1979.
Another major accomplishment was the publication of the International Handbook of Aerospace Awards and Trophies. Compiled and edited by the staff of the Museum’s Library, the handbook is the first comprehensive reference source of its kind. All aspects of flight are included—ballooning, manpowered flight, early racing events, and exceptional contributions to the engineering and administration of aerospace achievements. A unique feature is the personal name index of over 6000 recipients of aerospace awards.
In the past fiscal year the newly created Education Division began publication of Air and Space, a free mini-magazine available to educators. The circulation of the magazine is approaching 50,000, making this magazine one of the most read aerospace education documents in the nation.
The Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, the National Air and Space Museum’s scientific research arm, worked on a number of photogeological projects in the past year, which often resulted in publications. Its primary research source is a complete collection of lunar photographs, taken by both unmanned probes and by Apollo astronauts.
Lunar research conducted by the Center in 1978 included studies of geochemical data obtained from the Apollo 15 and 16 missions. The physical features of the Moon were analyzed, and studies of lunar ridges indicated that they may have been caused by globalscale forces. In addition, progress was made on dating the materials that fill lunar craters.
40 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 52>>>

In the past year, the Center initiated comparative planetology research with a study of the wind-blown features on Earth and Mars. Martian channel and valley characteristics were compared to the arid and desert areas on Earth.
In conjunction with the Geology Department of Ain Shams University, Cairo, desert erosion and sand movement in Egypt were analyzed. A sand distribution map of Egypt, which charted sand fields and dune trends, was prepared from nasa’s Landsat photographs.
The Center compiled nasa’s Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Summary Science Report, Vol II, Earth Observations and Photography. This volume includes the results of investigations made during the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, in such diverse fields as oceanography, meteorology, geology, and hydrology. The Center also prepared a summation of lunar nomenclature for inclusion in Planetary Toponomy, also to be published by nasa. Center personnel play a key role in keeping the nomenclature files up-to-date for use by Nasa, the International Astronomical Union, and the United States Board of Geographic Names.
NASM staff members continue to participate actively in national and regional meetings of professional societies. The Museum was host to the Fourth Biennial Conference of the International Planetarium Society, August 6-10, 1978, which was attended by more than 300 delegates from the various planetariums throughout the world.
The special representations and activities sponsored by the Museum drew large crowds. Two series, Exploring Space with Astronomers and Monthly Sky Lectures, again were held in the Museum’s Albert Einstein Spacearium. Topics included: “The Message of Starlight,” by astronomer Sandra Faber; ‘Sun, Stones, and Stars,” by Dr. John Eddy; and “Planets, Planets, Everywhere,” by NAasM Spacearium Officer Jerry Barbely.
Regularly scheduled, free aviation films in the theater also brought people to the Museum after-hours. As they left, many were able to catch a glimpse of such notable artifacts as the Wright Brothers’ 1903 Kitty Hawk Flyer and Lindbergh’s Spirit of St. Louis. In December, Christmas carolers entertained visitors, while in January Dr. Ernst Stuhlinger, former Associate Director of Science at the Marshall Space Flight Center, delivered the first annual
Science / 41

<<<Page: 53>>>

Wernher von Braun lecture. As part of the nation’s observance of Sun Day, a lecture discussing studies of the sun from space was given by former skylab astronaut, Dr. Owen Garriott.
The second annual Smithsonian Frisbee Festival, held over the Labor Day weekend, attracted thousands to the grounds of the Washington Monument to see exhibitions by world-class players and three disc-catching dogs. Free workshops for all ages and abilities were provided so that everyone could learn more about this enjoyable, aeronautical device. During the festival, a Frisbee disc of note was accessioned, which will be placed in the newly opened Flying for Fun Gallery.
The nasm’s daily presentations played to near capacity crowds in 1978. The award-winning IMAX film To Fly was seen by approximately 1,660,000 Museum visitors, and Cosmic Awakening, the major feature in the Albert Einstein Spacearium was seen by over 370,000 people. In addition, work is being completed on a new planetarium show, “Worlds of Tomorrow,” which is scheduled to open in November 1978. The second IMAX film (successor to To Fly) is expected to premier in the Museum’s theater in early 1979.
The nas continues to work to provide a satisfying Museum experience for all visitors, including the handicapped. As part of this effort, a paperless Braille reading machine was installed in the Social Impact from Flight Gallery. The new device gives blind visitors access to quotations from scientists and philosophers who have speculated about life in the future. This information is available to sighted visitors by linking a television screen with a computer.
The book, Museums and Handicapped Students: Guidelines for Educators, was published in the past fiscal year. Funded by a grant from the Office of Education of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, it consists of a set of guidelines to assist educators in establishing educational programs for the handicapped. Over 5000 copies have been distributed at no cost, 4000 directly by the NAsM’s Education Division.
This same Education Division scheduled and performed tours for over 50,000 visitors in the past year. Special tours for the handicapped again were offered, including signed tours for the deaf.
The Museum’s Art Department has been busy cataloguing and accessioning over 1300 paintings, drawings, and field notes produced under nasa’s Art program.
42, / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 54>>>

In the course of examining previously accessioned prints, a handwritten note, believed to have been done by George Washington, was discovered and turned over to the nasm Library. The note related to an invitation to Washington to observe balloon flight activities of Professor Foulke at the University of Pennsylvania on May 17, 1784.
The artwork on display in the Flight and the Arts Gallery was refined with the addition of several new pieces. Georgia O’Keeffe’s painting, Ladder to the Moon, (on loan from the artist) was placed on display, in addition to two aviation paintings by British artist Frank Wootton, works by Ingo Swann, Wang Ming, and a portrait drawing of General Doolittle by Paul Calle.
New art pieces were added to the World War I, World War II, Balloons and Airships, and Flight Testing galleries. Selected pieces from Stuart Speiser’s collection of twenty-two photo-realist paintings, on loan to the Museum, were placed on display in the administrative areas. Research was conducted in preparation for an exhibit on aerial photographs, to be installed in the Flight and the Arts Gallery in 1979.
nasmM’s Library made progress in microfilming the Museum’s information and documentary archives, and a system was implemented to update the research files. The Aeronautics Department has asked major and minor aircraft companies and other aviation organizations to provide specified material. A great deal of valuable documentation has been collected and added to the files. The program is ongoing, and regular channels of communication have been established with the donors.
National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man
The National Anthropological Film Center (Narc) contributions in Human Studies Research this year included co-production with the National Film Board of Canada of three educational films depicting aspects of the way of life of the Pashtoon Nomads of Afghanistan. This pioneer effort to prepare an accurate and informative film on important aspects of the human condition will also be released in a one-hour version for national television.
Science / 43

<<<Page: 55>>>

As a natural corollary to its focus on increased understanding of the human condition, the NAFc is interested in theoretical examinations of aspects of the nature of human knowledge. In a symposium before the American Association for the Advancement of Science during the 1977-1978 year Center Director Richard Sorenson presented theoretical issues relating to problems of applying the methodology of natural science to studies of human existence.
The Center began an analysis of film on daily life of traditional Micronesian people of Woleai Atoll and found a basic pattern of emotional-response patterning emerging in early childhood. This culturally specific behavior pattern provides a basis without which the traditional social and political system of these Micronesian people might not be able to come into being or persist.
Continued study of the research films of childhood among the Fore people of Papua, New Guinea, showed that a previously unstudied pattern of child neuromuscular development emerges from a system of tactile communication employed before the young are old enough to speak. Reported in a chapter soon to be published by Cambridge University Press, these findings suggest routes to neuromuscular competence not hitherto known that provide considerable self-safety to young children.
In addition to increasing the efficiency of its internal administration system, NAFc during fiscal year 1978 was able to perfect specifications for a new single-person camera rig that enables the Center to inconspicuously record film and sound in remote countries where the customary two-man film and sound team attract so much attention that they become a “show.” This new low-profile visual data gathering instrument has been tested and is now in use in the field.
With a personal invitation from the Dalai Lama to help him preserve a record of traditional aspects of Tibetan civilization before it disappears, and receiving Government of India blessings for the project, the National Anthropological Film Center in 1977-1978 turned its attention on the high Himalayas of Ladakh. Collaborating directly with the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives, the NAFC assembled a team including a Tibetan research filmmaker from Nepal, three scholars of Tibetan Civilization, and a part-time NAFC staffer from Harvard. A month of survey across this high Himalayan region finally revealed a remarkable traditional setting, which
44 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 56>>>

was also unusually amenable to research film study. Perched atop a 14,000-foot Himalayan peak was an active and traditional Tibetan Buddhist monastery still carrying on the ancient practices with the traditional support relation with a surrounding, still intact, lay community in the valley below. Fortunately, our Tibetan research filmer had himself lived in a similar monastery during his youth; this greatly facilitated the settling of our team into the monastery itself. A last representative of the important Tantrayana Buddhist tradition is now about to become part of the World Ethnographic Film Sample.
On the south side of the Himalayan chain, in Nepal, the important Newar civilization once flourished in splendid isolation. While the Newar civilization has now merged with today’s modern technological and commercial world, there remain in the countryside a few traditional villages where the socioeconomic and behavioral foundations of the original civilization persist. In such subsistenceagricultural Jyapu villages lay the seeds of the original Newars. This way of life still continues in a few villages, as a last representative of a very early type of refined agricultural and human organization that differs markedly from other peasant communities of the world. In collaboration with the prestigious Royal Nepal Academy and its Vice-chancellor, Lain S. Bangdel, the Narc has inaugurated its first research film study in Nepal with the Jyapu culture. The narc research cinematographer learned both the Napali and Newar languages in order to be able to move into selected Jyapu villages as our one-person “filming team” with new equipment, which was designed for such a contingency. naFc’s Barbara Johnson is now living in and filming another important contribution to the World Ethnographic Film Sample.
The original Polynesian cultures of the Pacific no longer exist. Only elements live on. In the Cook Islands, performance traditions stemming from the original culture are still presented. With an invitation coming directly from the Premier of the Cook Islands himself, the NaFc assembled a largely volunteer research filming team in an attempt to act before this last aspect of the once great Polynesian culture also disappears from the world. The narc was also able to place its Micronesian research filmer on Pukapuka Atoll, the most remote of the Cook Islands, to obtain 28,000 feet of visual data, with supporting sociological data, on the remaining traditional
Science / 45

<<<Page: 57>>>

aspects of this type of Polynesian child handling and rearing practice in relation to the pattern of intercommunity dependency of these islands. This material is now being assembled as part of the visual/aural data resources of the narc for entry into the World Ethnographic Film Sample.
Significant bodies of film data accessioned by narc included Sandra Nichol’s 70,000 feet of film shot in western Kenya. What appears on her films is not likely ever to be filmed again in Kenya. The Center also took Lewis Cotlow’s Arctic film on the basis that the way of life it represents has been completely transformed.
The Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies (ru1&s) continued to carry out a program fostering the ongoing study of the impact of contemporary immigration upon and its discernible implications for the future of the United States and the international community.
In cooperation with the International Studies Association, RITES held five sessions/workshops dealing with three topics of special interest to students of migration studies. Attended by scholars from here and abroad, the sessions dealt with problems and opportunities of using quantitative data on immigration and immigrants for research purposes; historical and sociological studies of West Indian labor migration to Panama and Central America; and contemporary studies of the black woman and the migratory experience in the United States. Follow-up research on these topics continued throughout the year.
RIIES personnel participated in various other conferences throughout the hemisphere, including the annual meetings of the American Sociological Association, the Afro-American Studies Association, and the Latin American Studies Association, as well as the uNEsSco experts meeting on The Cultures of the Caribbean. In addition, the rues Director, Dr. Roy S. Bryce-Laporte, initiated and convened a plenary session of the Society for the Study of Social Problems on United States immigration policy.
The rues publication series continued in operation. Fiscal year 1978 saw the appearance of Pacific Migration to the United States: Trends and Themes in Historical and Sociological Literature, by Shirley Hune. A shorter version of this publication later appeared
46 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 58>>>

in Sage Race Relations Abstracts. Also, a special issue of Society magazine on “The New Immigrant Wave” contained eight articles that were versions of papers presented at the rues Bicentennial conference on the new immigration. Complete proceedings of that conference went to press this year; they are titled Sourcebook on the New Immigration and are being published by Transaction Books.
National Museum of Natural History
The public enjoyed a series of notable new exhibits at the National Museum of Natural History (NMNnH) during the 1977-1978 year. “Splendors of Nature” opened in October 1977, a permanent hall displaying hundreds of ravishing specimens from the collections. Museum Director Porter Kier’s idea was not to provide any scientific message as the Museum ordinarily does in its exhibits, but rather each object was to be on view in the hall for just one reason—because it is beautiful. ““Western Civilization: Origins and Traditions,” a permanent hall that traces the heritage left by the ancient civilizations of the Mesopotamians, Egyptians, Greeks, and Etruscans opened in June 1978. Treasures gathered by the Smithsonian over a period of more than 100 years are on view, including richly painted Egyptian mummy coffins from the tombs of Thebes; royal drinking goblets from Homer’s legendary city of Troy, and a massive mosaic from a Roman temple in Carthage. Low-priced guidebooks in color for these two halls are under preparation by the Office of Exhibits; eventually, brochures will be available for all of the Museum’s permanent new halls. The first two guides in the series, “Ice Age Mammals and the Emergence of Man,” and “The Insect Zoo,” were issued in 1977-1978.
In April and May 1978 the Museum was host to “Treasures of Mexico: from the Mexican National Museums,” an exhibit of 150 masterworks of Mexican art from the pre-Columbian period and the four centuries since the arrival of the Spanish in 1492. The exhibit was brought to the Smithsonian by the Armand Hammer Foundation with the cooperation of the National Museum of Anthropology and History in Mexico City and other regional national museums throughout Mexico.
Science / 47

<<<Page: 59>>>

Other notable exhibits at the Museum during the year included “Beyond the Ocean, Beneath a Leaf,” nature photography by Museum staffer Kjell Sandved; “Perfectly Beautiful—Art in Science,” works by Museum scientific illustrators and colleagues; and
“Sringar,” colorful Indian costumes that demonstrated geographical and cultural differences on the vast subcontinent of India. Two major gems were acquired for exhibit: the 67.89-carat VictoriaTransvaal diamond, a gift of Leonard and Victoria Wilkinson, and the 75-carat Hooker emerald, once owned by a Turkish sultan and a gift of Mrs. Stewart Hooker.
Ethnological fieldwork conducted over a 26-year period in the Korean village of Sam Jong Dong by Dr. Eugene I. Knez, the Museum’s curator of Asian anthropology, provided the basis for the 1977 exhibit, “Korean Village in Transition.”
To reach out to schools that for one reason or another seldom bring their pupils to the Museum to make use of its resources, the National Museum of Natural History Office of Education in fiscal year 1978 inaugurated a van outreach program. As many as a dozen volunteers simultaneously visited schools, carrying with them presentation kits filled with fossils, mounted animals, and other Museum materials. This made it possible to maximize the number of pupils contacted during a single school visit. Over 109 classes in a dozen schools in the inner city and surrounding counties were reached in this way. Later in the year the outreach program began to investigate the possibility of serving the elderly and handicapped in area nursing homes and hospitals. The program is being developed further for the coming year. In cooperation with Gallaudet College, the Office is also continuing its courses within the Museum for persons with hearing handicaps. Generous donations of scientific equipment, money, and collections were received in 1977-1978 that made it possible for the Office to continue development of the Museum’s unique new Naturalist Center. Thousands of persons interested in collecting, identifying, and studying natural history objects made use of the Center’s facilities.
An encyclopedic Smithsonian handbook on California Indians was published in April 1978, the first of a 20-volume set that will summarize all that is known about the history and cultures of North American Indians and Eskimos, from their earliest prehistory through the present.
48 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 60>>>

Exhibits staff preparing display of Egyptian mummy coffins for “Western Civilization” exhibit. Photo by Chip Clark. Below. Workmen installing colossal stone Olmec head at the Mall entrance of the National Museum of Natural History for the “Treasures of Mexico” exhibit. Photo by Doc Dougherty.

<<<Page: 61>>>

The whole encyclopedia, called the Handbook of North American Indians, under the general editorship of William C. Sturtevant at the Museum and just this year transferred from csm to the managerial control of nMNuH, has been in preparation since 1970. It replaces the standard authoritative two-volume reference work, the Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico, which was published by the Smithsonian 1907-1910. An entirely new Handbook was needed since Indian and Eskimo societies have changed a great deal over the past 70 years and much more anthropological and historical information about them has become available.
California (volume 8 of the series but the first volume to be’completed) is edited by Robert F. Heizer, professor of anthropology at the University of California at Berkeley. It contains 72 chapters by the 47 outstanding authorities on the Indian cultures of the region. A chapter is devoted to each of the 60 or so tribes native to the area that now includes most of the modern state of California and parts of Oregon and Mexico—ranging from the Yurok and the Tolowa in the north to the Cahuilla, Ipai, and Tipai in the south, and from the Chumash on the coast to the Eastern Miwok and Western Mono in the Sierra foothills.
There are also chapters on the languages of the California Indians, and on what has been learned about the long prehistory of the native peoples of the state. Other chapters summarize the history of California Indians, including their relations with the EuroAmerican invaders of their country.
Other volumes will be issued as they are ready. Volume 15, Northeast, will be published in October 1978. At least two volumes will appear in 1979: volume 6, Subarctic, and volume 9, Southwest (the first of two on this area).
The Scientific Event Alert Network (sEAN) increased its network of worldwide scientific correspondents to approximately 1000 members, and improved the monthly Bulletin with a new format and additional graphic aids. The Bulletin, previously available only to correspondents, is now offered to the general public by subscription from the National Technical Information Service.
During the year, 36 volcanic events, 7 meteorite falls and finds (one of which included 310 specimens from 20—50 meteorites found at Allan Hills, Antarctica), and the strandings or sightings of 473 individual marine mammals were reported in the Bulletin. In addi-
50 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 62>>>

tion, 4 mass whale strandings with numbers of animals ranging from 15 to 169 were reported from Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. Many other kinds of natural science events, including all significant earthquakes, were reported.
sEAN began contributing monthly columns on current geophysical and meteoritical events to Geotimes and Eos magazines, thereby disseminating such information to a large, professional audience.
Staff biologist Shirley Maina participated in the Second Conference on the Biology of Marine Mammals in San Diego in December 1977, and Lindsay McClelland, staff geologist, delivered a paper— “Summary of 1977 Global Volcanic Activity’”—at the Cordilleran Section of the Geological Society of America annual meeting in Tempe, Arizona, March 1978.
National Museum of Natural History archeologist Dr. Dennis Stanford has excavated mammoth bones that were used as tools by hunters on the Colorado Plains during the Ice Age. The handworked bone came from deposits which have been dated as 20,000 years old and thus its discovery doubles the known time that man is known to have lived on the North American continent.
To establish that the bones at these ancient sites were not simply broken and flaked by natural processes, Stanford and a team of scientists in March 1978 conducted a unique experiment with an elephant that had died at Boston’s Franklin Park Zoo. Cutting up the elephant in the same way that he hypothesizes ancient man butchered mammoths, Stanford created impact impressions, fractures, striations and polish on the elephant bone that closely resembled the scars on mammoth bones found at the Colorado sites and at other archeological locations.
During the butchering experiment a 21-pound boulder was used to break the elephant’s long bones. This produced spiral fractures and unusually sharp large bone flakes of a type often found at archeological sites. The team found these flakes extremely effective as cutting instruments and believe that it would have been quite possible for mammoths to have been in large part butchered with tools like this made expediently on the spot from the mammoth’s own bones. Stanford concluded that because of the number of steps it took to produce such bone tools, it would be almost impossible for the flakes at the sites to have been fortuitiously duplicated in nature.
Science / 51

<<<Page: 63>>>

Dr. Dennis Stanford (left) and Richard Morlan remove a thigh bone from the elephant they dissected in the manner in which Dr. Stanford hypothesizes ancient man butchered mammoths. This unique experiment was carried out at Front Royal,
Virginia, on an elephant that had died at Boston’s Franklin Park Zoo. Photo by Vic Krantz.

<<<Page: 64>>>

In 1934, Luelen Bernart started to write a history of his Micronesian island, Ponape, from its legendary beginnings to its people’s first contact with Europeans. As a rare example of a history compiled by an indigenous Pacific islander, it bears little resemblance to works produced by historians from our own culture. Myth is mixed with history, customs, and botanical and zoological lore. Luelen died around the end of World War II, one year before Dr. Saul Riesenberg, now senior ethnologist and NMNH specialist on the islands of the Pacific, visited Ponape for his first fieldwork. In his search for material on island history he was shown a copy of Luelen’s narrative in handwritten manuscript. Fascinated by the work, Riesenberg made it the subject of extensive study. Translated and edited by Riesenberg, the manuscript has now been published for the first time, in collaboration with Micronesian expert John Fischer and the ethnonutritionist Marjorie Whiting. The Book of Luelen is volume eight in the Pacific History Series published by the Australian National University Press.
Three or four times a year at the National Museum of Natural History, a series of scientific papers is bound and mailed to the world’s leading experts on tropical islands. The Atoll Research Bulletin, as the periodical is known, carries the latest reports of work in their field—from investigations of coral reefs in the West Indies to observations on the climate of an Indian Ocean island.
Knowledge of tropical island ecology has increased enormously over the past 25 years and much of the new data was first published in the Atoll Research Bulletin. Founder and editor-in-chief of the Bulletin is Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg, a Smithsonian botanist and ecologist who has pursued a long-term interest in oceanic island plants, so different from those of continents.
After spending much of his early career in the 1930s working in Hawaii, Fosberg went to work in 1951 for the United States Geological Survey to do Pacific Island research. Since then not a year has passed without his visiting an island somewhere in the tropics.
To make certain that scientific data being brought back from the Pacific by a series of United States Government expeditions was not simply dropped into filing cabinets and forgotten, Fosberg founded the Atoll Research Bulletin in September 1951.
From the outset Fosberg’s co-editor has been Dr. Marie Héléne
Science / 53

<<<Page: 65>>>

Sachet. Hers is the job of editing—improving manuscripts, detecting bibliographic errors, generally making sure all the details are correct and pushing the manuscripts to publication. Dr. David Stoddart of Cambridge University recently became the Bulletin’s third co-editor. All told, 219 papers have been placed between the covers of the Bulletin. From 1952-1965 publication costs were underwritten by the Office of Naval Research through the old Pacific Science Board, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences Research Council. But, when Fosberg and Sachet came to work at the Smithsonian in 1966, the Institution assumed the costs. Preparation of certain issues has been subsidized by other agencies, including the Fish and Wildlife Service. Papers in the Bulletin now cover the ecology not only of Pacific atolls but of islands across the tropics.
As the Department of Interior develops official lists of plants to be protected, it will be calling upon an authoritative reference book newly produced by the Smithsonian. Endangered and Threatened Plants of the United States, jointly published by the Smithsonian and the World Wildlife Fund, U.S. Appeal, was written by Dr. Edward S. Ayensu, Director of the Museum of Natural History Endangered Species Program, and Dr. Robert A. DeFilipps, Coordinator of the Program’s Endangered Flora Project. The two authors had the staff assistance of Sam Fowler, Mary Mangone, Carol Mitti-Natella, and Dr. William Rice.
The new book is an updated and much expanded version of the Report on Endangered and Threatened Plant Species of the United States, assembled three and a half years ago under Dr. Ayensu’s direction. This preliminary effort identified some 10 percent of the 20,000 kinds of plants within the 49 continental states as being in jeopardy. Dr. Ayensu, who sees the compilation as one requiring constant monitoring and updating, sought to involve plant specialists all over the world in this process. Calls and letters with new information flooded the project office in response to the initial report. Not only professional botanists, but also thousands of people from garden clubs, utilities companies, and every imaginable botanical and environmental affiliation expressed interest.
The influx of facts and expert opinion dictated revision, updating and further documentation of the original lists. Some heretofore thought rare species were found to be abundant, and vice versa. Species that had been overlooked in the first report were brought to
54 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 66>>>

the attention of the authors. Most dramatically, more than a halfdozen species, long considered extinct, were rediscovered.
Prior to 1970 the National Museum of Natural History’s only large insect holdings from the vast Oriental region were from the Philippine Islands and southeast China. But at that time the Museum began its Ceylon Insect Project, funded by the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program, and organized and headed by Dr. Karl V. Krombein. Now in its eighth year, the Sri Lanka Project has provided an unparalleled opportunity to augment the Smithsonian National Collections in a geographical region of great entomological significance.
Working in cooperation with officials of Sri Lanka’s National Museum in Colombo, Dr. Krombein and fourteen other collaborating scientists have conducted exhaustive faunal surveys of the terrestrial and aquatic arthropods of Sri Lanka—gathering more than half a million specimens. A tangential benefit of this fieldwork has been to provide training in entomological science for Sri Lankans. Colombo Museum employees and University students have accompanied visiting teams in the field, learning how to collect and preserve insects and make worthwhile observations relating to insect biology.
The collections made in these surveys have been processed and sorted at the Smithsonian and distributed to 125 authorities throughout the world for study. After the material is worked up and returned to the Smithsonian, duplicate sets are shipped to the Colombo Museum and the Department of Zoology at the University of Sri Lanka, Peradeniya, providing these institutions, for the first time, with collections of native insects that have been reviewed and accurately identified by specialists.
For Sri Lanka, the project not only strengthens their collections and provides professional training, it also promises considerable economic benefits through the detection of potential disease vectors and timber and crop pests.
Dr. Stephen Wood of Brigham Young University, Utah, a specialist on bark and ambrosia beetles, many species of which are important pests of commercial timber, discovered that the most destructive species of ambrosia beetle in the world was present in Sri Lanka in large numbers.
Scientists collecting insects of medical importance include: Dr. Douglas M. Davies of McMaster University in Ontario, a specialist
Science / 55

<<<Page: 67>>>

on insects commonly called blackflies or buffalo gnats. Species of this family are known to serve as vectors of onchocerciasis and tularemia, and also to transmit haematoza to both wild and domestic mammals and birds; Yiau-Min Huang and E. L. Peyton of the Smithsonian’s Medical Entomology Project collected mosquitoes throughout the island. One of their more significant findings is the discovery of a new species of a group known to be involved in other Oriental regions in the transmission of the dengue viruses and filarasis; Dr. Donald H. Messersmith of the University of Maryland collected biting midges that are known vectors of filariasis as well as other protozoa and viruses affecting man and animals.
Dr. Krombein’s work has concentrated on collection and biological observations of Sri Lanka’s wasps and bees. Wasps, in particular, had been little investigated on the island by earlier workers. Many new species were collected especially of the smaller, obscure species. Dr. Krombein has begun publishing his biological observations in a revisionary series under the title, Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps.
One of Dr. Krombein’s intriguing discoveries was a wasp species related to members of a species group restricted to South India and Madagascar. The females are wingless, limiting their dispersion. Dr. Krombein notes that the distribution of the wasps and their relationships are particularly significant if one recalls the close connection which existed eons ago when Sri Lanka, South India, and Madagascar were adjacent parts of the ancient Gondwanaland supercontinent, now widely separated by continental drift.
Other Smithsonian scientists who worked in Sri Lanka include Dr. Donald R. Davis, who concentrated on collecting the island’s moths; Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., aquatic insects; Dr. Paul J. Spangler, aquatic beetles; Dr. Richard W. Baumann, stoneflies and other aquatic insects; Dr. and Mrs. Michael Robinson, spiders, particularly araneids, and other arachnids; and Mr. Gary F. Hevel, flies.
The National Museum of Natural History’s Dr. Clyde F. E. Roper has conducted important experiments over the past two years with Dr. Richard E. Young that demonstrate how bioluminescence helps squids and other midwater oceanic animals survive. Dr. Young, a biological oceanographer at the University of Hawaii, and Dr. Roper verified that light producing organs (photophores) located on
56 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 68>>>

the ventral sides of head, arms, eyes, and viscera of squid can act as a camouflage mechanism. The two scientists showed that squid perceive the quality and quantity of the dim downwelling light at the depths where they live and then light up their photophores to match this background light. The result is that they obliterate their silhouettes and render themselves invisible to predators below them.
This defensive tactic, called “counterillumination,” had been suspected by scientists for many years but had never been experimentally verified because of the difficulty of observing the behavior of mid-water animals in the open sea or in aquariums. Aquarium observations had been impossible because the animals always died almost immediately after being taken from the ocean. Drs. Roper and Young solved this problem by constructing a shipboard aquarium system in which the squids could be kept alive and observed under regulated conditions of light and temperature.
The squid were collected very carefully in special trawls, then swiftly transferred to a holding aquarium in which the temperature of the sea water was regulated so that it would coincide with that experienced by the animals during their daily migrations from depths of 500-750 meters during the day (40-45 degrees F.) up to warmer waters of 100-350 meters at night (55-60 degrees F.).
The observation aquarium lay inside a black, light-shielded box with a rheostatically controlled overhead blue light. The squid’s silhouette was observed in a tilted mirror set beneath the glassbottomed aquarium.
Drs. Roper and Young found that when they turned on the stimulus light, a squid turned its lights on, matched the intensity of the stimulus light, and disappeared from sight. When they turned the light off, the squid turned its photophores off. Next an experiment was devised that confirmed that squids can regulate their light to match the changing light conditions that exist in their natural environment.
An extremely sensitive photo-multiplier tube was used to measure the intensity of overhead light. Each squid—confined in a cage | in the tank so that it couldn’t swim out of the overhead light—was exposed step by step through a series of increasing light intensities. The squids responded by counterilluminating against brighter and brighter overhead lights, until finally an intensity was reached that was so bright they couldn’t match it; then they showed signs of
Science / 57

<<<Page: 69>>>

ore . f + agit i “4 = » eo= ©
bgt — a ts.
TP Ls ees 1.

<<<Page: 70>>>

Facing page, top. Dr. Karl V. Krombein collecting wasps in Sri Lanka. Facing page, bottom. Dr. F. Raymond Fosberg examining plants on a Pacific island. Photo by Kjell Sandved. Above. Dr. Brian Mason examining iron meteorite discovered in Antarctica. Photo by Vic Krantz. Left. Drawing shows the pattern of photophores (light organs) on the squid Abraliopsis. The glow from the many tiny light organs matches the intensity of the natural light in the sea and obliterates the animal’s silhouette, thereby making the squid invisible to predators.

<<<Page: 71>>>

stress and became physically agitated. The process was reversed and the light intensities reduced to find the dimmest intensity at which the squids’ luminosity functions. Each species, it turns out, has a specific range of light intensities through which it can regulate. According to Dr. Roper it can now be demonstrated that this range corresponds to the light intensities experienced over the normal vertical distribution of these species in the ocean.
Most recently Drs. Young and Roper have demonstrated that squids and fishes possess light receptive organs, in addition to the eyes, that serve as light-meters to monitor the downwelling light. With these extra-occular light receptors the animals are able to continuously regulate their bioluminescent counterillumination, while the eyes are free to concentrate on hunting for prey and detecting predators.
Two rare meteorites have been discovered by the National Museum of Natural History’s Dr. Brian Mason among an accumulation of meteoritic material gathered in the Antarctic by a National Science Foundation expedition. One of the two represents an entirely new class of achondrites, a type of stony meteorite that does not have tiny beadlike globules called chondrules. According to Dr. Mason, the Antarctica specimen shows some resemblance to the two existing classes of achondrite meteorites but its overall composition is significantly different. It is the first new type of achondrite meteorite to be discovered in 60 years.
Achrondrites and other meteorite types are important to scientists because they can give clues about the physical and chemical evolution of the solar system.
Dr. Mason also identified a Type II carbonaceous chondrite meteorite. Only 15 specimens of this type, which are characterized by their high carbon content, had previously been found. These meteorites contain a variety of amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, and scientists believe this material suggests a way in which life could have begun on earth and on other planetary bodies. Meteorites of this type could have fallen on planets in large numbers, bringing in complex organic molecules.
The two rare meteorites were among 310 specimens, representing 30-40 different meteorites, gathered on patches of bare ice in late 1977 and early 1978 in the Transantarctic Mountains in Victoria Land, about 120 miles northwest of McMurdo Station, the
60 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 72>>>

principal United States scientific outpost in Antarctica. Dr. William A. Cassidy, a University of Pittsburgh geologist, and Dr. Keizo Yani of the Japanese National Institute of Polar Research in Tokyo, headed the joint United States-Japanese expeditions that discovered the material.
Natural processes unique to Antarctica made the finds possible. When the meteorites originally fell, over a period of millions of years, they were deeply buried by snow and ice in the Antarctic ice cap. The ice flowed slowly toward the coast and stalled against a coastal mountain range. Strong winds then wore down the ice surface and exposed the meteorites. Especially important to scientists was the fact that the meteorites had been preserved from contamination and decay by Antarctica’s snow and ice and freezing temperatures. To preserve this pristine quality, the scientists used gloves to pick up the ancient specimens and then carefully placed them in airtight and uncontaminated stainless steel canisters, maintained at sub-freezing temperatures.
The specimens were shipped to special moon rock handling facilities at the Johnson Space Center in Houston. The eight most unusual meteorites sorted out of the lot were given priority. Chips from each of these were sent to the National Museum of Natural History where Dr. Mason and his colleagues are among the world’s leading experts in the petrographic analysis that establishes a meteorite’s basic character—a prerequisite for further studies. Thin sections were cut and mounted so Dr. Mason could examine each section under the optical microscope and conduct an electron microprobe analysis.
Dr. Mason reported the scientific description of the eight samples—including the two rarities—to other members of a National Science Foundation committee, which will recommend further study of the material. The remainder of the Antarctica specimens also underwent examination at the Smithsonian.
Drs. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant were honored for outstanding achievement by the Director of the National Museum of Natural History in December 1977 after the publication of the final volume of Permian Brachiopods of West Texas. The work has been hailed by authorities as a paleontological classic.
The study had its genesis in the 1930s. As a graduate student at Yale, Dr. Cooper had become interested in brachiopods, thumb-
Science / 61

<<<Page: 73>>>

Visitors are always interested in meteorites that have fallen on the United States; here they study the 672-pound Wallapai Meteorite (left) found on the Wallapai Reservation in Arizona and the 255-pound Oakly Meteorite found in Idaho. Below. Drs. Richard E. Grant and G. Arthur Cooper (both on left) and Porter Kier, Director of the National Museum of Natural History, examining presentation set of eightvolume paleontological treatise. Joining them are Dr. Charles Gazin (center) and
Dr. Martin Buzas (far right). Photo by Vic Krantz.

<<<Page: 74>>>

nail-size seashells that have flourished for the entire half-billionyear period in which there has been shelly life. Paleobiologists are extremely interested in these animals because they illuminate important phases in the earth’s ecological, evolutionary, and geological record.
When Dr. Cooper joined the Smithsonian staff he began to enlarge the National Museum’s brachiopod holdings. In 1939 he visited the Glass Mountains in Texas, a 100-square-mile area located 236 miles southeast of El Paso, bringing back nine small boxes of rocks containing silicified brachiopod specimens. That winter at the Museum he used hydrochloric acid to etch the brachiopods out of the rock, an experiment that freed so many perfectly preserved unknown species that he decided almost immediately to go back to Texas for more silicified material.
World War II interrupted his collecting trips, but in the summer of 1945 he returned to the Glass Mountains and sent back a massive five-ton rock shipment. He was systematically amassing a great collection of animals preserved in the mountains and tracing their evolutionary succession.
Dr. Grant joined Dr. Cooper as a co-researcher in 1957. By 1967, when they decided to wind up the fieldwork part of the project, the two scientists had quarried more than 144,000 pounds of rock. From this material they had processed millions of specimens. The hard physical labor was finished but the stratigraphy of the Glass Mountain region had to be analyzed and nearly a million of the finest specimens examined and photographed. As published, over a five-year period in eight volumes, the work totals 3370 pages and is the largest paleontological treatise ever issued by the Smithsonian.
In the field, collecting after dark, National Museum of Natural History frog and toad specialists traditionally depend on their ears to help locate and identify the animals they seek. To a knowledgeable listener the call of each species is unique. On rare occasions, however, the difference between two calls is too subtle to be picked out; and sometimes a call is of such complex frequency or structure that its unique character is not discernable to the human ear. But now electronic equipment makes it possible to analyze a frog call with great precision; a scientist is thus provided with an ana-
Science / 63

<<<Page: 75>>>

lytical tool for use in sorting out and identifying various species and interpreting their behavior. The Museum has installed such equipment in a sound analysis laboratory, where a variety of workers are analyzing many kinds of animal sounds.
The Museum’s Dr. W. Ronald Heyer is using the laboratory in a long-term survey of certain large and poorly defined Neotropical frog populations. Before he grabs a male frog, he “collects” its mating call on a cassette recorder. Back at the Museum, in addition to examining the frog’s color, size, and other anatomical features, he analyzes the recording of the frog’s voice with the laboratory’s sonagraph, oscilloscope, strip chart recorder, and frequency analyzer. This equipment produces a visual picture of a frog’s call. On paper, for example, the coarse whistle of an Amazonian frog shows up as a pulsating pattern of squiggly lines. This can be read as an exact picture of how the frog distributes the vibratory energy of its voice over an interval of time. Some calls have a very complicated harmonic structure, others are simply pure tones.
Many of the differences Dr. Heyer sees in each frog species’ “voice chart’ are based on subtle differences in muscles and cartilage deposits. Changes in laryngeal musculature produces a change in the tension of the vocal cords which result in frequency differences. Presence of cartilage deposits on the vocal cords rhythmically open and close the vibrating cords producing a pulsatile call. The result is the sound that the male broadcasts to the female. The female, for her part, has a hearing apparatus that is tuned to pick up this particular sound. It is as though the male and female are communicating on a single channel.
Dr. Heyer’s sound work is only one of a number of ongoing research projects in the Museum’s Division of Reptiles and Amphibians. During the past year a new edition of the standard Introduction to Herpetology was published under the co-authorship of Dr. George Zug. Dr. Zug also completed studies that measure the jumping abilities of some 80 species of frogs, and correlate the jumping behavior to sex, habitat, size, morphology, and taxonomic groupings.
The analysis showed that ground burrowing frogs living in relatively dry terrestrial habitats tend to be short jumpers. The best jumpers measured were tree frogs, especially ones living in low shrubs. Another group that tested well were semi-aquatic frogs.
64 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 76>>>

milion Qo —
Dr. W. Ronald Heyer using electronic equipment in the sound analysis laboratory at the National Museum of Natural History. Dr. Heyer is conducting a long-term survey of certain Neotropical frog populations. The call of each species is unique. Not only is a frog’s voice recorded but a visual picture, as shown, of its call is produced and may be read to tell how it distributes the vibratory energy of its voice over an interval of time.

<<<Page: 77>>>

Dr. Zug discovered that smaller frogs succeeded in jumping farther, proportionate to their size, than the larger frogs, but the small frogs tended to tire out faster, perhaps because they were putting more effort into their leaps.
All of the frogs collected and studied by Drs. Heyer and Zug are added to the division’s collection, one of the largest in the United States. The emphasis is on accepting materials that have been used in research, thereby creating a voucher depository that scientists can return to in the future to confirm earlier research work and pursue new research directions.
Under the auspices of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center (sosc) a major expedition was launched in May and June 1978 to gather marine shore specimens in the central Philippines. It is the beginning of a planned multi-year program. The area is considered a key to understanding and resolving taxonomic problems of the Indo-Australian Region, the richest and most complex marine biotic province in the world. Substantial support provided by the Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation, Washington, D.C., made the first trip possible.
Philippine scientists are anxious for the Smithsonian to help them identify the shore fauna and flora and assist them in establishing benchmark data by which environmental changes can be measured. The research is expected to provide critically important data for Philippine fisheries.
The Smithsonian team, headed by Dr. Herman A. Fehlmann, included Smithsonian ichthyologists Drs. Victor G. Springer and Leslie A. Knapp, invertebrate zoologist Gordon L. Hendler, marine algologist Ernani G. Menez, and diving consultant and collector, Joseph D. Libbey. The team collaborated with Philippine personnel from the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources; Silliman University Division of Research, Extension and Development; University of the Philippines in Diliman; San Carlos University in Cebu; and the National Research Council of the Philippines.
Sampling of material took place at approximately 160 shore stations. Duplicates from these collections with all pertinent data are being prepared for deposit in the Philippine National Museum. Collections returned to the Smithsonian will be processed and sorted at sosc and distributed to national and foreign scientists for identification and study.
66 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 78>>>

National Zoological Park
For the National Zoological Park, the year 1978 was an exciting one of growth, highlighted by new and expanded programs, increased births and hatchings, and construction and renovation of exhibits and facilities. By the close of this period, staff members in all departments could look back with pride on progress made toward increased responsiveness to the public and heightened professionalism in the care and study of the animal collection.
One of the most intriguing developments at the Zoo was the opening of Zoolab in the new Education-Administration Building. It has proven popular with the hundreds of curious visitors who have come in each week. Essentially a library of books and objects relating to the animals in the Zoo, Zoolab provides a family-oriented experience—before and after seeing the Zoo—in learning more about the animals by exploring, touching, and reading. Items include birds’ nests, skeletons, feathers, antlers, and birds’ and reptiles’ eggs.
Other interpretive materials are “learning boxes,” which focus observations and suggest activities on topics such as Zoo diets and animal coverings; an animal-information file; and ‘’Zoo activities,” self-guided brochures that relate objects in Zoolab to live animals out in the Park. Volunteers from the Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) are available to answer questions and help visitors make the most of Zoolab’s resources. Grants from the Smithsonian Women’s Committee, FoNz, and the Meyer Foundation help to make Zoolab possible.
Another innovation in Zoo education was the pilot program for the District of Columbia Schools, titled “Zoo Animals: A Closer Look.” Sponsored in conjunction with ronz and developed in response to teachers’ needs, the pilot program focused on nine fourthgrade classes in Region II, a neighboring district of the public school system, by complementing the fourth-grade science curriculum. The program was designed to sharpen the children’s curiosity by having them look closely at animals and to encourage
Science / 67

<<<Page: 79>>>

the development of such skills as observing, recording data, classifying, contrasting, and making inferences.
After an introduction to the Zoo in their own classroom, the participants visit the Zoo one morning a week for the next five weeks. The ‘Zoo Express” bus, a government surplus bus renovated and brightly decorated by the graphics department, transports classes to and from the Zoo. They visit the Reptile and Bird Houses, several mammal exhibits, and the Monkey House, working closely with their teacher in both the animal areas and the Zoo’s new classrooms in the Education-Administration Building. The classroom activities reinforce the children’s direct observation in the Park. Since teachers’ active participation is necessary, Zoo staff members conduct workshops prior to each course.
An evaluation of the program’s success was an outlined component; based on this review, the pilot program was modified in summer 1978. Changes included expansion for the 1978-1979 academic year to include sixteen city schools; accreditation of the teachers’ workshop; and the development of new materials that are finding additional use in other Zoo programs. Zoo educators hope that this program will encourage children’s appreciation of the Zoo and its animals.
During September 26 to 28, the National Zoo was host to a conference of the International Association of Zoo Educators, attended by people from as far away as Japan, Germany, and Scotland, as well as from the United States. The conference focused on ways to reach a variety of audiences through different programs. Discussion topics included programs for the visually handicapped, high school students, and families.
The Zoo’s sparkling new library in the Education-Administration Building kept remarkable pace with an expanded collection and increased requests from staff for volumes, periodicals, photocopies, bibliographies, and other materials. The library also extended its subscription services to Zoo staff in Venezuela and Sri Lanka.
In the realm of graphics, the Zoo’s popular “sketch-ins” marked a significant development in involvement with the public. The Smithsonian participated in the World Wildlife Fund’s 1977 international celebration by focusing on the animal in art in a series of exhibits at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Na-
68 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 80>>>

Clinging to a burnt tree, a bear-cub replica is unveiled at the dedication of Smokey Bear Park at the National Zoological Park in September. From left are local radio announcer Jackson Weaver; Dr. David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science; John McGuire, Chief of the United States Forest Service; and an intrigued young
Visitor.

<<<Page: 81>>>

a SS fae
At the National Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center near Front Royal, Virginia, much of the research concerns management for captive breeding of species endangered as wild habitats diminish. Above. Grant’s Zebras graze in the open fields. Below. Among habitats provided at the Center, these corn crib enclosures completed in 1978 each houses a pair of Lesser Pandas.

<<<Page: 82>>>

tional Museum of Natural History, and National Museum of History and Technology. The Zoo’s contribution to this project was its sketch-ins, on several Sunday afternoons during the fall, winter, and spring. During each event, visitors were provided with drawing paper, pencils, and gentle guidance throughout the Park from ten local, volunteer animal artists whose work was on exhibit in the lobby of the Education-Administration Building.
The many resulting sketches, created by enthusiastic novices and not-such novices of all ages and walks of life, were collected and mounted in an exhibit in the building’s lobby for months afterward, to be enjoyed by visitors and staff alike. Due to the enormous success of these sketch-ins, more are planned for the future.
Other graphic accomplishments during the year included several colorful murals. These strikingly vibrant displays have enhanced the Park’s beauty. Judith Inglese, a ceramic muralist, completed a work depicting the Tree of Life on one wall in the EducationAdministration Building’s lobby. Several months afterward, the building’s outdoor entrance was enriched by her intricate mural showing a procession of animals and people. The Zoo commissioned a second muralist, Mame Cohalan, to create backdrop displays for the Reptile House’s lizard and python enclosures.
The Zoo’s comprehensive, graphically unified trail system, installed in 1977, was used and enjoyed by millions of visitors in its first year.
Among the Zoo’s 2300 animals, 1978 was a year of growth in many ways. A dramatic increase was seen in the rate of births and hatchings, especially among reptiles, golden marmosets, lesser pandas, and even bald eagles, as a result of concerted breeding programs. The Zoo’s bears were treated to both new and renovated surroundings. Last, an internal organization of the animal management department created improved efficiency in maintaining the varied collection.
In April 1978, the Zoo’s bald eagle population increased by 50 percent—with the successful hatching of a chick. The second born to the Zoo’s pair since 1973, the youngster grew rapidly under the careful handrearing of keepers. By early fall, the bird was being considered for use in future breeding endeavors of this endangered species.
Science / 71

<<<Page: 83>>>

Ling-Ling, the female giant panda, once again came into estrus in spring 1978; once again, encounters were run with Hsing-Hsing, the male; and once again, the pandas proved playful but not productive. In May Dr. Devra Kleiman, the Zoo’s reproduction zoologist, and Mr. Jaren Horsley, the general curator, journeyed to the People’s Republic of China—the pandas’ natural habitat— along with other Smithsonian delegates and directors of five other major American zoos. After consulting with several Chinese zoologists, the two concluded that the pandas were overweight and recommended a restricted diet, in hopes that more normal physical conditions would foster breeding behavior as in the wild.
Exhibited successfully for the first time in several years were small Neotropical bats, many of which were born at the Zoo. These species had already been studied for several years by the Zoo’s zoological research staff. Many of the findings were then applied to the bats’ maintenance in captivity.
In its breeding programs for certain species, the Zoo has begun cooperating with other zoos in a new, experimental approach. In such cases—including loans of lesser pandas to the Knoxville and Bronx Zoos and golden marmosets to the Jersey Wildlife Trust in England—the loan agreements are different than before. Each cooperating zoo receives animals for exhibit and breeding purposes, but they and their young remain the responsibility of the National Zoo. Previously, ownership of half the young would be claimed by the National Zoo and that of the other half by their native zoo. The National Zoo’s responsibility, however, for the most part emerges from a shared concurrence by all parties as to the breeding strategy to be used once these young mature.
At the new Beaver Valley Exhibit, scheduled for completion in early 1979, plans called for occupancy by late October 1978 of two aquatic species—seals and sea lions—in large enclosures featuring pools, rocks, and an elaborate filter system. In cooperation with the National Marine Fisheries Service, the Zoo arranged to obtain all of its sea lions from the rehabilitation program for stranded and beached animals, conducted at Hanna-Barbera’s Marineland in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
In the spring, the Zoo added a nutritionist to its curatorial staff, the first at the doctoral level ever hired by a zoo. Hopes were that the animals’ nutrition would benefit from this scientific approach,
72 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 84>>>

while resources would be more efficiently used to meet their dietary needs.
Fiscal year 1978 also saw the institution of a keeper-leader system, part of a restructuring of the animal department to improve its management of the collection.
The Zoo’s research staff pursued projects on a variety of subjects at Rock Creek, at the Conservation and Research Center at Front Royal, Virginia, and in such foreign locations as Venezuela, Panama, and Sri Lanka.
Research with the collection included an analysis of the behavioral characteristics of monogamous mammals, with special attention devoted to canids and golden marmosets. Emphasis was placed on developing methods to compare pair-bond strength, parental care, territorial behaviors, and ontogeny.
Studies continued on the reproductive cycle of golden marmosets, in conjunction with a breeding program for these severely endangered animals. During the year, reproduction in the marmosets was the most successful since the inception of the Zoo’s breeding program.
Another project focused on the comparative social behavior of three species of South American canids at Front Royal. One of these species, the maned wolf, produced and reared its young—a rare event in captivity.
Observations of various behaviors in the giant pandas continued, with an emphasis on the time course of the male-female interaction during the female’s estrus. An important finding revealed that prior to estrus, the female is quite active in initiating and dominating interactions with the male; once she is in peak receptivity, however, the opposite is seen.
Research was done on the reproduction of fruit-eating bats, in collaboration with Dr. Charles Handley of the National Museum of Natural History. The Zoo’s bat colony has flourished; it is mainly captive-born with many second-generation offspring.
An intriguing series of studies were initiated on mother-young relationships in hoofed mammals, with the premise that offspring of some species—such as reindeer—are “followers,” spending much time with their mothers, and that other young—such as
Science / 73

<<<Page: 85>>>

dorcas gazelle—are “hiders,” remaining in seclusion after birth and accompanying their mothers only gradually as they develop. Still other species, however, exhibit an intermediate condition between the two classic extremes. Data have been analyzed and additional studies were in progress.
Singing behavior in hand-raised rock wrens was compared with that in wild rock wrens. At the Conservation Center, research on the eastern bluebird continued in an effort to develop an efficient way to increase populations of this vulnerable species and to learn more about the evolution of its social behavior.
Field projects overseas yielded great progress. In Venezuela, studies on two species of primates produced major findings on home-range size, troop composition, and feeding habits. Smallmammal fauna were observed in two habitats, the llanos (plains) and the rainforest.
Avian ecology was the focus of field research in both Panama and Venezuela. Settlement patterns and behavior of song wrens, which had earlier been reintroduced to Barro Colorado Island in Panama, were studied to gain knowledge of reintroduction strategies for maintaining tropical species, as forests continue to be cut in the Neotropics.
Among other projects abroad were a study of the toque monkey in Sri Lanka; a survey of the dwindling numbers of tigers on Sumatra, and the preparation of a key to the microscopic structure of the leaves of woody plants on Barro Colorado Island.
In late October 1977 the Zoo convened a symposium at the Conservation and Research Center on the distribution, ecology, and behavior of migrant birds in the Neotropics. Conservation recommendations were forthcoming.
At the Front Royal Conservation Center, 1978 brought expansion of all kinds. Animal-holding facilities were constructed; new species, such as binturongs and lesser pandas, joined the collection; and many offspring were born to the rare and endangered species of birds and mammals that reside in this rural setting.
The Center’s role is to conserve exotic wildlife through captive propagation and research. Toward this end, in 1978 the Zoo’s incubation and bird-brooding program was established in full opera-
74 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 86>>>

tion. All eggs taken from birds both at Rock Creek and at the Center are incubated in this modern, efficient facility. The rearing yards associated with the program have proven successful; young birds have flourished there in large numbers.
In its conservation and breeding efforts, the Zoo has entered an exciting phase of cooperation with other zoos. Such interaction and sharing have been deemed necessary if populations of endangered animals, whose natural habitats are shrinking, are to be given a fair chance to increase. Breeding loans, both from and to the Zoo, increased with other institutions. The avenues of communication widened as information about animal management and medicine was exchanged.
Lively herds of Przewalski’s horses in Minnesota and Bactrian camels, thriving in the green, hilly pastures of Virginia, were maintained in conjunction with the Minnesota Zoological Gardens. The Bactrian camels, in return, presented the Zoo with one male and two female young during this period.
In another cooperative venture, the Zoo has taken its first step in a bird study and breeding program, financed in part by FONz, and involving four American zoos (Washington, Philadelphia, New York, and Denver) and the Djakarta Zoo in Indonesia. As a result, the five zoos plan to exhibit and breed the same kinds of birds in order to pool genetic resources and experiences.
Among the hoofed mammals, special mention should be made of the Pére David’s deer. This species, extinct in its native China, lives only in captivity. Its herd is growing measurably at the Center, to the immense gratification of staff, who are also studying social dynamics in this species.
Aside from such conservation and propagation efforts, staff at the Center are also devoting their energies to research. Projects include studies on courtship and breeding behavior of the Grand Cayman Amazon parrot and on social behavior, reproduction, and husbandry of the binturong.
In January and February, the director of the Center spent a month in Nepal as a consultant to fieldworkers of the Smithsoniansponsored Nepal Tiger Ecology Project. Funded by the World Wildlife Fund’s United States Appeal and the Smithsonian since 1973, the project has focused on the tiger’s social organization and predator-prey relationship, using radiotelemetry in Chitwan Na-
Science / 75

<<<Page: 87>>>

tional Park. From its Sauraha base camp on the banks of the Rapti River, fieldwork in the terai has been made possible by elephants, land rovers, and more recently a United Nations Development Program plane rented for radio-tracking tigers. University of Minnesota student David Smith, who had begun fieldwork in 1976, succeeded with chief shikari Prem Bahadur Rai in radio-collaring about ten tigers, seven of which later gave birth to young. Prospects for radio-monitoring the movements and dispersal of these offspring are particularly encouraging.
A major accomplishment at the Center was the construction of twenty-one permanent yards for breeding pairs of cranes, occupied in late September 1978. A large building was renovated to accommodate small carnivores and the bird brooding and incubation program. These natural enemies were separated by a commissary, utilities area, and storage space.
In 1978, the Zoo continued to make dramatic progress in its animalhealth programs. The incidence of avian tuberculosis, which had earlier been a menace to the bird collection, was reduced by more than 50 percent. Projections for the future indicated even further eradication of the disease.
Another exciting development was a new kind of operation to solve a puzzling medical problem in birds. Some of the Zoo’s sarus cranes, which had resided in the Conservation Center’s yards since early spring, began to exhibit drooping wings and other symptoms of weakness. X-rays revealed the presence of metal in their gizzards, even though, prior to occupancy, staff had combed through the yards with metal detectors and alert eyes. To remedy this serious problem, the Zoo’s veterinary staff performed a complicated operation to remove the metal from the bird’s gizzards, thereby setting—as far as is known—a new precedent in the annals of animal medicine.
On Christmas Eve 1977, a male orangutan, named Azy, was born in the Great Ape House. Soon afterward, he was plagued by various infections in the mouth and elbow, with accompanying fevers and lassitude. Over the next few months, the Zoo’s animal health team supervised round-the-clock care of Azy in the Hospital-Research Building. Several operations were performed to try
76 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 88>>>

A Bengal tiger, caught and tranquilized in the wilds of Nepal, is fitted with a radiotracking collar that will allow researchers to follow its travels. This activity reflects the Zoo’s participation in the Smithsonian’s Tiger Ecology Project that is studying this rare animal. Below. An ailing golden marmoset rests in a temperature-controlled incubator at the Zoo’s hospital. This facility holds critically ill and newborn animals requiring intensive care. It can accommodate patients of a variety of weights and

<<<Page: 89>>>

to drain and disinfect the critical areas as they were detected. Numerous consultations with other professionals, including an orthopedic surgeon, yielded new perspectives and approaches. Azy finally responded to treatment by gaining weight; the fevers abated; the infections cleared up. Some weeks later, to the joy and pride of all of the Zoo’s staff, a much stronger and well-adjusted infant was able to travel to the Albuquerque, New Mexico, Zoo where he has taken up residence with a young female orangutan. Hopes are, of course, that one day he will breed and sire new orangutans to add to the rapidly shrinking numbers of this endangered species.
Clinical research continued during the year, both helping to improve the quality of medical treatment for the Zoo’s animals and contributing new perspectives to the field of veterinary medicine. Projects included the blood gas evaluation of animals under anesthesia and restraint; studies of appropriate antibiotic regimens for a wide range of exotic species such as reptiles, birds, and hoofstock; and work with diagnostic laparoscopy, a method that is finding expanded applications in the realm of animal health.
The year was also marked by the construction of a quarantine facility to house newly arrived birds, smallto medium-sized mammals, and hoofstock. Within the hoofstock area are two holding stalls with connecting outside yards, and a padded recovery stall to prevent injury to hoofstock emerging from general anesthesia. The building is designed with a series of runways and chutes to facilitate the handling and medical treatment of hoofstock.
Activities of the Zoo’s pathology staff were facilitated by the new Necropsy Building. It features an overhead track, a walk-in refrigerator, laboratory and storage space, large tables, and a pathologic incinerator. Since autopsies are performed on every animal in the Park that dies, the ample space and modern equipment of this new facility have certainly augmented the detailed work requisite for pathologic analysis.
At the close of the year, plans were in full swing for a Symposium on the Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals, to be held at the Zoo in early October 1978. The first conference on exoticanimal pathology in North America, it will feature contributions from pathologists throughout the United States, Canada, Europe, and Australia. Proceedings will be published next year.
78 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 90>>>

Construction at the Zoo over the past few years has created an appealing new look for the Park; 1978 was no exception. After eighteen months of work, the Old Bear Line was renovated, with moats and rockwork, and the bears were reinstalled. Polar bears and other bears settled into new surroundings during the year at the Polar Bear and Grizzly Bear Exhibits. In September, Smokey Bear Park, on the Old Bear Line, was completed and dedicated in cooperation with the United States Forest Service. Smokey will now have a larger, open-moated enclosure, with holding and retiring dens and graphics that tell visitors his story and the continuing plea for forest-fire prevention.
Construction of Beaver Valley, the Zoo’s largest exhibit, moved ahead toward a late-fall 1978 occupancy. The original schedule for completion was adjusted only slightly, despite delays caused by a harsh winter and an unusually rainy August. The exhibit represents an attempt to create a natural appearance, with landscaping and minimized architecture.
Aside from these and other animal-exhibit projects was the General Services Building and Parking Facility, the largest single construction project in the Zoo’s redevelopment program. It was occupied in February by staff of the Offices of Facilities Management, Construction Management, and Graphics and Exhibits, and by the commissary. Underground garages service the Zoo’s many vehicles; a visitor parking lot on top, the first of four planned parking levels, creates hundreds of new spaces for cars, and helped to alleviate the tight parking problem of past seasons.
Of the various service units themselves, no small mention should be made. These departments literally keep the Zoo running and looking its best. In a year dubiously distinguished by a severe winter and an oven-hot summer with frequent flash-floods and heavy visitor crowds, the maintenance staff and police valiantly smoothed the rough edges of operation.
A gratifying decline in vandalism also deserves commendation. The Zoo’s police, in cooperation with a more aware general staff, heightened their visibility throughout the Park, establishing a presence that discouraged potential troublemakers.
Science / 79

<<<Page: 91>>>



<<<Page: 92>>>

Above. A Grant zebra and her nursing colt form a vibrant pattern of stripes against the foliage in their enclosure. The Zoo maintains a small group of zebras at its Rock Creek site for exhibit purposes, but concentrates its zebrabreeding program at the Conservation and Research Center at Front Royal, Virginia.
Facing page. A mother giraffe tends to her still-wet young in its first hours of life. At the National Zoo in 1978, three giraffes were born in one week, two of them on the same day—a “‘first’” which treated the public to an exciting show and gave Zoo researchers ample opportunity to observe mother-infant interactions. After a drop of 6 feet to the ground, a new-born giraffe can usually stand within 20 minutes and run with the adult herd several days later. Giraffe breeding at the Zoo has, in fact, been so successful that there is no more space for the surplus of youngsters; they are instead being placed in other zoos. In addition, curators have had to control mating opportunities by sometimes keeping the lone male, Michael-John, separate from the females.

<<<Page: 93>>>

Fonz celebrated its twentieth birthday in 1978. As the Zoo’s nonprofit, support organization, it had grown immensely since its early days in the Fifties. Thanks to its hard-working staff and board of directors, its devoted membership of over 12,000, and increasing revenue from the concessions and parking services it operates, FONZ today has greatly expanded its programs and aid for both the public and the Zoo. During the year, Fonz provided nearly $250,000 to fund a wide variety of educational, research, and conservation activities of direct benefit to the Zoo and its visitors.
Perhaps the backbone of ronz’s strength has been its guides and other volunteers. Of all ages and backgrounds, these people have generously donated a valuable amount of time to Zoo activities, such as school tours, animal-themed puppet shows, information services for visitors, Zoolab, and animal-behavior watches. For school tours alone, volunteers contributed over 10,000 hours for the enrichment of more than 9,000 children.
FONZ provided crucial support in financing the acquisition of Zoolab materials; the operation of the “Zoo Express” bus to transport District of Columbia school children to and from the Park; fellowships of an increased number of summer interns, who assisted the Zoo’s professional staff in such areas as graphics, education, animal health, and zoological research, both at the Zoo and at the Conservation Center; and program expenses for the Zoo’s migrant bird conference at the Center.
It was an exciting year, too, for educational programs and events regularly offered to Fonz members. Opportunities expanded fo classes of all ages, lectures, films, Zoo tours, regional field trips, and excursions to China, India, eastern Europe, and the Galapagos Islands. The yearly “ZooNights” and ‘Associates Nights” (in collaboration with the Smithsonian Resident Associates) proved enlightening and entertaining for the thousands of members who attended.
In November 1977, ronz opened its Bookstore/Gallery in the lobby of the Education-Administration Building, with an enticing array of fine books, stationery, and artwork. ronz’s gift-shop operations were enhanced by the use a 5400-square-foot merchandise storage area in the new General Services Building. Also in that central location are FoNz’s parking office and repair facility.
82 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 94>>>

In its twenty-first year of Zoo support, FoNz has shown great progress from the past and bright promise for the future.
Detail of Fonz’s financial operations for calendar year 1977 (its fiscal year) is shown below. In addition, a percentage of the restaurant and parking concessions are available directly to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the Zoo and are reported as income in the Financial Report of the Smithsonian.
Financial Report for the Period January 1-December 31, 1977
Net increase/
Net (decrease) to revenue Expense fund balance FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/77 ...... $550 SERVICES MAPESDEISHIP ...)..605cs62s25-es05 $ 134 $ 106 $ 28 MMICANIIYG 22 cs i Se eck oes os 47 50 (3) STIS ne ee 19 128 (109) MOUMOCTVICCSIS 5 15 c. bieuse weiss ae 1,106 854 * 252 Matal serene rss: wo eile keen $1,306 $1,138 $168 FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/77 .... $718 *
Excludes services worth an estimated $96,329 contributed by volunteers to FONz.
? Includes gift shop, balloon shops, sightseeing trainings, parking service, and food service.
* Includes $115,717 paid during this period to the Smithsonian under contractual
arrangement.
Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and
scientific work of the National Zoological Park.
Science / 83

<<<Page: 95>>>

Office of Fellowships and Grants
In its role as a leader in the international scholarly community, the Smithsonian maintains close scholarly ties with universities, museums, and research institutions around the world. Among the most important of these connections are those that have been developed in the areas of cooperative research through the fellowship programs and the foreign currency program at the Smithsonian. In 1978 a new office was established to bring together the major academic and research grant programs of the Institution under one office. This new office, the Office of Fellowships and Grants now includes all of the Institution’s visiting academic appointments and the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program. The Smithsonian Research Award Program will be included during the next year.
With policy direction from the Board of Fellowships and Grants, the Office of Fellowships and Grants acts as the center through which the Smithsonian’s research activities pursue their academic objectives. Academic programs reflect the character of the research and collection strengths of the Smithsonian. They deliberately avoid duplication of university-based study and research, stressing new perspectives on academic subjects and disciplines not commonly studied in the university. These programs range from offcampus undergraduate studies to traditional postdoctoral researchtraining fellowships. They are flexible, giving assistance to individuals who need to study at the Institution for a few days and to persons who require the research resources of the Institution for a year or more. Since 1965, when most of the formal institutional award programs were established, the Institution has been the appreciative host to more than a thousand visitors supported by one of the fellowship award programs. These scholars now form an international network of individuals who have studied at the Smithsonian and in many cases continue their association by subsequent visits, consultation, and frequently shared research efforts with members of the Institution’s research staff.
Fellowships are awarded to postdoctoral scholars to spend six months to one year participating in a program of advance research
84 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 96>>>

training. Predoctoral Fellows receive appointments for a similar period to conduct research necessary to complete their dissertations. During 1977-1978 sixty-one postdoctoral and predoctoral fellows were appointed. Students who need to spend a shorter period pursuing their research in consultation with the research staff of the Smithsonian are offered ten-week appointments. During 1977-1978 twenty-eight such appointments were made. The Office of Fellowships and Grants also conducts a Short-Term Visitor Program, under which twenty-five visitors spent one week to a month at the Institution during the past year.
The Office of Fellowship and Grants relies heavily on the support and cooperation of the bureaus of the Smithsonian. Sometimes this support is offered as direct stipend support. In the past year the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Smithsonian Archives, and the National Collection of Fine Arts have continued to conduct specialized academic programs for undergraduate and graduate students. In 1978 the Smithsonian was pleased to see the Charles A. Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History established with Charles Gibbs-Smith, Keeper Emeritus of the Victoria and Albert Museum as the first incumbent.
A system developed to maintain regular contact with past fellows has resulted in an index that includes a listing of significant books and articles resulting from fellows’ tenure at the Institution.
A total of 147 individuals participated in the Smithsonian’s academic studies programs during 1977-1978. A listing of individual names and research projects may be found in Appendix 6.
The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (sFcp) awards grants to support the research interests of American institutions, including the Smithsonian, in those countries where the United States holds blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The Program is active in countries where the Treasury Department deems United States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of normal federal requirements, including in 1978 Burma, Egypt, Guinea, India, and Pakistan. Research projects are continuing to conclusion under Program support in the former excess-currency countries of Israel, Morocco, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.
Science / 85

<<<Page: 97>>>

The Smithsonian has received a fiscal year 1978 appropriation of $4 million in “excess” currencies to support projects in the anthropological sciences, systematic and environmental biology, astrophysics and earth sciences, and museum professional fields. From its inception in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1978, the srcp has awarded about $35 million in foreign currency grants to some 200 institutions in 37 states and the District of Columbia. Within the framework of the Program, the Smithsonian made a fourth and final contribution of $1 million in Egyptian pounds in support of Egypt’s effort to save the submerged temples of Philae in Nubia.
Radiation Biology Laboratory
The thrust of the Radiation Biology Laboratory has been the investigation of light energy and its influences on the inhabitants of the earth, the food chain, and the environment. Important biological processes are identified and studied under controlled conditions toward interpretation of the effects of photochemical reactions on growth and development of biological systems, particularly in plants. Continuing efforts have resulted in a systematic assessment of the quality and quantity of solar energy reaching the earth’s surface and increased knowledge of natural seasonal and clinical changes.
Such fundamental and long-term studies provide information that ultimately leads to improved methods of production, better conservation, and understanding of environmental changes that are wrought by man. As demonstrated by historical precedent, the patient building of a store of knowledge about life processes and their correlation with interacting environmental factors leads, as well, to applications not now foreseeable of inestimable economic and sociological benefit.
Consonant with its charter, the Radiation Biology Laboratory has continued its research emphasis during the past year in several major directions. These are: (1) regulatory processes of plants, such as membrane synthesis and pigment synthesis; (2) environmental processes and energy flow in biological systems, such as photosynthesis and carbon metabolism; (3) the measurement of the
86 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 98>>>

amount, duration, and color quality of sunlight present in the environment; and (4) the age estimation of biological artifacts based upon their radioactive carbon content.
In oxygen-evolving photosynthetic organisms light is absorbed and the energy is converted to chemical energy. An understanding of the mechanism of energy conversion in specific plants can potentially lead to insights and solutions for directly converting solar energy into chemical energy on a commercially feasible basis.
The light harvesting pigment antenna (phycobilisomes) are the major light absorbers in red and blue-green algal cells. For the first time, cell-free preparations of photosynthetically active membranes in which phycobilisomes participate have been obtained in the laboratory. The best results were obtained when cells of the bluegreen alga, Anabaena variabilis, were disrupted in a sucrose, phosphate, citrate mixture containing 1.5 percent serum albumin. Membrane vesicles thus obtained had a phycobiliprotein to chlorophyll ratio essentially identical to that of whole cells. The oxygen evolution rates were 250 micromoles of oxygen per milligram of chlorophyll per hour compared to rates of 450 for whole cells. Involvement of the phycobiliproteins was demonstrated by excitation energy transfer from phycocyanin (600 nanometer excitation) to chlorophyll of photosystem II (695 nm emission). A decrease in the 695 nm emission was always accompanied by a decrease in the guantum efficiency when phycobilisomes were uncoupled either energetically and/or physically from the membranes.
Some of the proteins and polypeptides of chloroplast photosynthetic membranes (thylakoids) are made in the chloroplast on chloroplast ribosomes and some are made in the cytoplasm on cytoplasm ribosomes. In some organisms cytoplasmic ribosomes are attached to the outer envelope of mitochondria. This observation had suggested that cytoplasm-synthesized mitochondria and chloroplast polypeptides might enter these organelles by means of ribosomes bound to their outer-envelopes in a variation of the polypeptide secretory process. An ultrastructural study completed this year showed that cytoplasm ribosomes are not bound to chloroplasts or mitochondria in the alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, or in leaves of the flowering plant Phaseolus vulgaris.
Science / 87

<<<Page: 99>>>

Thus, it is concluded that binding of cytoplasm ribosomes to organelle envelopes is not an obligate requirement for the transfer of polypeptides from cytoplasm to organelle.
Fungi, such as Neurospora, which is an eucaryote (has a nucleus) and is of intermediate complexity as compared to bacteria or humans, are useful for studies of the regulation of enzyme biosynthesis. They grow rapidly, producing large amounts of material for biochemical analysis, and are amenable to detailed genetic analysis.
In addition, fungi such as Neurospora and Phycomyces synthesize carotenoid pigments and their oxygenated derivatives, the xanthophylls, which are responsible for many of the yellow, orange, and red colors observed in both plants and animals. Blue light initiates or enhances the biosynthesis of these carotenoid pigments. The biochemical pathway is complex with an unknown number of enzymes required to convert the colorless five carbon compound, isopentenyl pyrophosphate (1Pp) to the colorless fortycarbon compound, phytoene. Phytoene, in turn, is a precursor of the colored carotenoids, such as 8-carotene. This pigment is an important carotenoid in the diet of animals since it is a precursor of vitamin A which is required for vision.
The rate of formation of each intermediate compound in the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is regulated by enzymes. The activity of one or more of these enzymes is regulated by an in vivo blue light treatment. The enzyme system which catalyzes the biosynthesis of phytoene from 1rp is being investigated in several albino mutants of Neurospora This enzyme system is present in albino-1 mutants, and as with wild type, blue light induces an increase in the level of this phytoene synthesizing activity. Thus, albino-1 strains are not blocked in the synthesis of phytoene, but in the conversion of phytoene to the carotenoid pigments. On the other hand, albino-2 and albino-3 mutants are blocked in the conversion of 1pp to phytoene. By differential centrifugation, the enzyme system which catalyzes the conversion of 1PpP to phytoene can be separated into two parts, a soluble and a particulate fraction. We have evidence that the defect in phytoene biosynthesis is in the particulate fraction of albino-2 and in the soluble fraction of albino-3 It will be important to determine whether albino-2 or albino-3 strains are regulatory mutants. Identification of regulatory
88 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 100>>>

mutants will be necessary in order to understand how light regulates enzymes in the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway.
In flowering plants the herbicide Sandoz (norfluorozon) inhibits the formation of not only the green chlorophyll pigments, but also the formation of the yellow carotenoids. Cultures of Neurospora and Phycomyces were grown on liquid media with the addition of Sandoz to determine if the production of carotenoids in fungi would also be inhibited, in the hope that an additional tool might be developed to study the carotenoid pathway. Over a wide range of concentrations (10-7 to 10°* molar) of Sandoz, there was no effect on the biosynthesis of carotenoids for cultures grown in the light. On wild-type Phycomyces there was a slight reduction of growth and dry weight production only at the highest concentration, but on the wild-type Neurospora and on a red lycopene accumulating strain of Phycomyces, there was no effect on pigmentation or fresh and dry weight production. Apparently the effect of the herbicide on higher plants is on the lipid membranes in which carotenoids and chlorophylls occur or the fungi have the capacity to metabolize the herbicide before it can affect the biosynthetic pathway of carotenoid production.
The regulation by light of growth and development of flowering plants is mediated through the pigment phytochrome. The mode of action at the molecular level remains unknown. An approach to determine the mode of action is to study the properties of purified phytochrome isolated from other cellular components. One of these properties is called dark reversion, in which the biologically active form of the pigment is converted to the inactive form that would normally be present prior to light exposure. Dark reversion occurs in vivo in dicotyledonous plants, but does not occur in the grass species from which the phytochrome molecule may be isolated. However, once phytochrome is isolated from grasses, it reverts in a similar manner to that from dicotyledonous plants. The dark reversion behavior of monocotyledonous rye phytochrome in solution can be reversibly controlled by the addition of neutral salts. Dissociating salts lead to a greatly reduced rate of reversion, while aggregating salts lead to rapid rates of reversion that are comparable to those observed in dicotyledonous tissues. It is concluded that the immediate molecular environment surrounding the phytochrome molecule, such as an interaction with cell membranes,
Science / 89

<<<Page: 101>>>

might explain the differences between the in vivo and in vitro dark reversion rates.
The induction of flowering is also a photomorphogenic response mediated by phytochrome. However, because plants which are induced to flower are exposed to light which is photosynthetically active, it is difficult to determine if only the phytochrome system is operating, or if energy from photosynthesis is also required. One way to approach this problem is to determine if flowering can occur in the absence of chlorophyll. Duck weed plants (Lemna) grown in the presence of the herbicide Sandoz do not synthesize the yellow carotenoid pigments or the green chlorophylls. Under conditions of low intensity periodic red light, the flowering percentage of Sandoz-treated plants is greater than in controls. Thus it is concluded that the phytochrome system is operating normally and that flowering can be obtained in plants that are virtually devoid of any carotenoids or chlorophyll and have no photosynthetic capability.
The phytochrome molecule acts as the receptor molecule for the control of reproductive development in plants. When light signals are received from the environment, either inhibition or promotion occurs that is dependent upon both the species of plant and the time in the developmental cycle during which the signal is received. The nature of the environmental light signal remains unclear. However, it has been postulated that changes in the relative amounts of red and far-red energy in sunlight may play a role. Such changes have been documented at the Radiation Biology Laboratory and show that, while the levels remain about the same during most of the day, the relative amount of far-red can increase by a factor of about 2 at twilight.
Experiments with barley, a plant that requires long day lengths to flower, have demonstrated that, when far-red light is added during 12-hour photoperiods, the plants flower as rapidly as those in continuous light. It has also been shown that the ability of the plant to respond to this far-red light is regulated by an endogenous rhythm in the plant itself. This has led to the hypothesis that the flowering of barley in nature is enhanced by twilight changes in the relative amount of far-red light, but only when such changes occur during periods when the plant itself is capable of perceiving them.
90 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 102>>>

Using the Sandoz method that was developed for the direct measurement of phytochrome in light-grown plants, it has been established that, while light results in the destruction of 98 percent of the phytochrome within 36 hours, the remaining 2 percent is stable for at least 6 days in constant light. When returned to darkness, this phytochrome behaves in the same manner as that found for plants grown in complete darkness and given only a brief irradiation. The kinetics have led to the conclusion that the low but stable phytochrome results from a balance between destruction and new synthesis of the molecule. This result is unlike the situation described for cauliflower, the only other light-grown plant that has been investigated previously.
Photosynthetic utilization of incident light energy provides the earth with renewable fuels. Previous work with flashing light, as early as 1905, indicated greater light energy utilization for flashing light than with continuous light. Using differential carbon dioxide and long-term growth measurements, flashing light is not more efficient than continuous light of equal energy in the photosynthetic utilization of light energy. However, previous findings which have been confirmed show that flashing light of about one minute duration followed by one minute dark intervals produced minimal growth.
Supplemental lighting with flashing light produces greater vegetative growth. This result can be attributed to increased light penetration through the plants upper leaves to the lower leaves. The amount of energy given over a specified time interval will penetrate more layers of leaves if that same energy is given in half the time. Thus, the pulses are more intense, and penetrate farther resulting in increased light absorption.
Other studies, using equivalent quanta of colored and white light, have shown that narrow band red and blue light produces plants equivalent in maturity and size. However, the plants grown under red light exhibit a lack of greening after the third week of growth.
There is considerable evidence to show that salt marsh ecosystems along the Atlantic coastline and the Chesapeake Bay are among the highest producers of biomass known. Since these marshes are tidal, it has been assumed that a large fraction of the production of the biomass by the marshes would be exported to adjacent estuarine waters where it could be consumed by the abundant marine
Science / 91

<<<Page: 103>>>

animal populations. Evidence in support of this hypothesis has been primarily indirect and inconclusive. Recent work has suggested that salt marshes are not as important to the energy budget of estuaries as had once been thought, and some have even concluded that the marshes are a consumer, rather than a source, for nutrients and reduced carbon.
Two principal mechanisms of carbon exchange by plant communities, photosynthesis and respiration, have been studied in order to determine what fraction of the carbon assimilated and used for production of biomass is metabolized in place by the community. Studies of the seasonal changes in community biomass production cannot reveal whether a loss of biomass by the plant community is due to export or to metabolism. Measurements of gas exchange provide direct data on the carbon balance.
During previous field seasons the photosynthetic efficiency of salt marsh communities has been determined. Comparing these data with data on seasonal trends in solar radiation incident on the marsh, the seasonal assimilation of carbon by the two most common plant communities along the Chesapeake Bay has been estimated. Sufficient carbon is assimilated to produce approximately two kilograms of dry matter per year per square meter of marsh surface. During the current year the night time community respiration has been monitored. Respiration does not account for a loss of more than half of the total carbon dioxide assimilated by photosynthesis. This means that approximately a kilogram of dry matter from each square meter of salt marsh is available for export from the salt marsh to the estuary. There appears to be little likelihood that a significant fraction of this biomass could be stored within the soil beneath the community, and the conclusion is reached that the salt marshes export a significant amount of carbon to the nearby estuaries.
In the marsh communities the photosynthetic efficiency is highest during the earliest part of the season and declines linearly thereafter. Each green leaf within the community seems to have maximum capacity to convert solar radiation to biomass in early May, shortly after the first leaves appear, but this capacity declines steadily even though new green leaves are continually produced. It has been postulated that this effect may be due to crowding of leaves within the canopy or, alternatively, to change within each individ-
92 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 104>>>

ual leaf in response to some stress factor within the environment. It has been found that altering the orientation of the leaves scarcely affects the interception of light, but it drastically affects photosynthesis. It is concluded that crowding within the canopy explains in part the observed seasonal decline in photosynthesis and is not correlated with altered interception of light.
The spectral quality of daylight is being measured by an integrating spectroradiometer beneath a forest canopy in the rain forest on Barro Colorado Island in the Panama Canal Zone. The instrument is mounted with automatic drive on a monorail 65 feet in length to obtain representative monitoring of shade and sunfleck areas for light between 400 nm and 800 nm in 50 nm bandwidths at specific time intervals throughout the day.
A similar unit, but not an integrating type, has been in operation on the roof of the laboratory in Rockville. The data collected by this instrument has been correlated with 100 nm bandwidth data that has been collected by Eppley pyranometers. The correlation is excellent except in the 750 to 800 nm band, which requires special calibration techniques because of variation of water vapor in the air.
A new digital integrating scanning radiometer has been installed at NASA Langley in Virginia, to monitor ultraviolet-B radiation. This first field test of the new unit gives a 90 percent data recovery rate. The data not accounted for are a result of the peculiar electrical environment in which the equipment has to operate, but the problem has been solved with the installation of additional voltage-regulating equipment and should result in practically a 100 percent data acquisition.
The pyranometer data (100 nm bands) show a definite trend in the ultraviolet energy at Rockville and Panama. Running seven-day averages were used so that short-term fluctuations would be minimized. The amount of ultraviolet decreases from 1973 to 1976 at Panama and Rockville, but Barrow does not show any trend but remains constant over the whole period. This trend at the two stations is not localized and is not due to aerosol or weather effects. The exact nature is as yet not understood.
Investigation of the recent geological and climatic history of the Chesapeake Bay continues. Similar studies are under way along the
Science / 93

<<<Page: 105>>>

Pleistocene ice-margin of southern New York state, in interior and coastal Maine, and in southern Labrador.
A major thrust of laboratory research is on the early occupations of the Americas. Cultural, geological, and climatic chronologies are being developed for Early Man sites in Colorado, Texas, Wyoming, Oregon, and Alaska, some of them in association with now-extinct mammals.
Recently completed studies of the relative reliability of the collagen and apatite fractions of bone or dateable materials may help document a Yukon Territory archeological site, possibly 20,000 years old. Additionally, a comparative dating program is under way on a wide variety of sample materials from well-preserved sites in the High-Arctic in order to assess the relative validity of exotic samples.
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
In astronomy, perhaps more than in any other field of science, the direction of research and the advance of knowledge often directly result from the development of new instrumentation. Indeed, over the centuries since Galileo first looked at the heavens through a crude telescope, each new observing tool has revealed a host of hitherto unknown objects and unimagined physical processes, with each contributing to humankind’s better understanding of cosmic evolution.
In 1978 particularly, the new astronomical instruments developed and used by Smithsonian astronomers produced many exciting new discoveries. For example, a team of Smithsonian and Harvard scientists operating an experiment aboard the International Ultraviolet Explorer satellite detected what appear to be black holes at the center of globular clusters of stars, thus confirming earlier observations by other Smithsonian researchers. In a related discovery, a scientist using a telescope in Chile in conjunction with colleagues using the new SAS-3 x-ray satellite confirmed that the “cosmic burster’” emitting sudden and intense flares of x-rays from the heart of a star cluster was the same object seen to brighten optically. Scores of other x-ray objects, equally strange and energetic,
94 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 106>>>

GEDANI. Y Se ore Cl ASG S644.
Curfac Meiicliran 23Wau Ps IG iioaean
= a Ke 4 i ¢ H 2s = A , we. ee ¢ a ; =. * 2p ’ = ip ‘ oe 3 os ‘ = \ €é ® = 4 ib zs . a | 3 a _ 4a tL P 8 ee 8 SS a E 3 en = > Eel. tea . t Si —— ” i¢ e eh ts e P 2 F = e ’ a ars & e @ é ] | 6 € e a @ ¢ @ d ¢ c } _ s & ¢ 5 d 32 ® ¢ r MAI. a3 a 7 Je > Dita ns Bags, 1s 1 pee 25. m.70. 47. a. 16 (SSimTo s:; 629 25mtT Si. ree 18.m.75 17. A On ns. 8. 7 Z.m.b9 0. B cad cad Jo. 8 25.m.7o 38. MN. 8 49.m.7 83. Cee Mea eed Man se 35.7 ¢5.m.07 44. 1*. 7 S4.m.67 25. 18. 7 $3.m.66 37. 16.56 46.m.65 #0 Pecc. SO Mcie, Sculaest
A seventeenth-century recording of sunspots carried across the solar rotation was among the historical data used in the Langley-A
sun’s disk by bbot Research
Program study of the connection between solar rotation and sunspot activity.

<<<Page: 107>>>

were recorded and mapped by Smithsonian-Massachusetts Institute of Technology-designed instruments aboard the HEAO—1 satellite.
Smithsonian scientists were also leaders in the development of instrumentation designed to enhance and improve the observational capability of conventional ground-based telescopes. New electronic devices using silicon diode arrays were applied to telescopes at Mount Hopkins, thus marking a significant step toward the way astronomical observations will be made in the future.
And, as the year ended, Smithsonian scientists neared completion of two new instruments—the mmrT and HEAO-8 satellite—that promise to revolutionize astronomy, and perhaps change the way we perceive the universe.
The obvious leadership of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) in modern astronomy results in part from a broad, diversified approach to research that encompasses many subdisciplines. Since 1973, sao has been joined with the Harvard College Observatory (Hco) under a single director as the Center for Astrophysics headquartered at Cambridge, Massachusetts. This joint venture brings together more than 140 scientists and 350 supporting staff members both in Cambridge and at field stations around the world. Such a large and unusual assembly of scientific and technical experts both inspires creation of new research tools and encourages rapid and effective responses to promising avenues of investigation. Research efforts of the Center are grouped roughly by specialties in several divisions, each headed by an associate director.
Harvard members are supported by University funds and by contracts and grants from agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the United States Air Force, the National Science Foundation, and the United States Department of Commerce. Smithsonian members are supported by federal appropriations and private funds from the Institution and by contracts and grants from government agencies, such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Office of Naval Research, the United States Department of Energy, and the Air Force Geophysics Laboratory.
The research program of the Atomic and Molecular Physics Division is directed to the study and determination of processes and
96 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 108>>>

parameters in atomic and molecular physics that are important to astrophysics. The studies are often in parallel with or in support of the interpretation of observational data. For example, the C-X band (124 nm) of H:O has not been detected in diffuse interstellar clouds. This null result is consistent with the absorption predicted from model calculation column densities and from gf-value measurements.
On the theoretical side, the relativistic random phase approximation has been used to calculate excitation energies and oscillator strengths of the Mg isoelectronic sequence needed for determining solar abundances and temperatures. Intercombination oscillator strengths necessary for solar plasma diagnostics have also been calculated. And, as a final example, observational astronomers have searched for, but not found, the molecule NaH in interstellar clouds. Theoretical astrophysics have shown that there is no gas phase mechanism for producing this molecule, and that the photodestruction rate of NaH is large.
An ion-beam facility recently constructed in the laboratory has measured, among others, the absolute cross sections near threshold for electron excitation of multiply charged ions, e.g., Be-like and Li-like. These cross sections have not been determined experimentally and are required solar plasma parameters for analysis of EUV and xuv intensities A new ion-beam facility program to measure electron excitation and dielectronic recombination of C** has commenced.
Oscillator strength data for Co I have been analyzed by use of the vacuum Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Preliminary oscillator strength data have also been produced for Si I in the ultraviolet spectral region.
Research in molecular structure, properties, oscillator strengths, and photo-dissociation channels and cross sections continues. Studies of the following astrophysically interesting systems CO, C2, NaH, and LiH are finished. Work continues on MgH and CH”. In the area of electronic continuum processes, calculations were completed of photoionization cross sections from ground and metastable Oz. The calculation of widths of autoionizing states of Hz is in progress.
The 6.6-meter vacuum spectrograph with extremely high resolution was used to study photopredissociation processes in N2, which
Science / 97

<<<Page: 109>>>

in the 800-1000 A region are important sources of N*D in the upper atmosphere. Rotational analyses of the absorption bands of the «fist X's) Rydberg bands of N» are in progress and account is taken of the extensive homogeneous perturbations that occur. Some abnormal intensity distributions previously observed in emission-spectra seem to result from the effects of perturbations rather than predissociations. The spectrograph has also been equipped for photoelectric measurement of vacuum ultraviolet absorption cross sections of stratospherically significant molecules (nitric oxide, oxygen, sulphur dioxide, and hydrogen chloride).
The bound-bound emission spectrum (1073-1083 A) of the Ar» excimer, which is capable of vacuum ultraviolet laser action, is being analyzed rotationally to obtain spectroscopic constants of the ground and lowest excited electronic state.
In solar-terrestrial physics, studies of the extreme ultraviolet solar corona in the acceleration region of the solar wind are pursued with the Lyman alpha coronagraph program. Data reduction and analysis of solar ultraviolet spectra with emphasis on the interaction with the Earth’s stratosphere have resulted in several publications, including a solar atlas.
Theoretical and experimental problems that involve other members of the Division include the determination of transition probabilities in the Z-expansion approximation; the photodestruction of neutral free radicals; and the measurement of absolute oscillator strengths of neutral and singly ionized atoms and of neutral molecules and radicals. In addition, fundamental theoretical quantum mechanical studies of basic atomic and molecular processes are in progress. Applications of atomic and molecular data to problems in planetary atmospheres and astrophysics are being investigated.
Research in the Geoastronomy Division is concentrated in geophysics, upper atmospheric research, and relativity, as well as the development of supporting hardware and software systems. Ongoing activities include the study of Earth dynamics and composition from satellite measurements; the development of models to describe temperature and density variations in the atmosphere; the analysis of data from a spacecraft-borne gravitational redshift experiment; the development of state-of-the-art hydrogen masers; and the study
98 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 110>>>

of a space-borne tether system for payload manipulation and in situ measurements of gravity-field gradients and electrodynamics.
The major activities in geophysics fell into three areas: First, a global set of area mean geoid heights derived from the Geos—3 satellite-to-sea-surface radar altimeter was compiled. This set of geoid heights was then combined with other satellite and terrestrial gravimetry data to obtain the first comprehensive global model of the Earth’s gravity field based on these three types of data. This model contains over 1300 coefficients representing features in the geopotential with wavelengths longer than 500 kilometers with an accuracy in geoid height of better than 2 meters. Second, detailed geoid maps have been prepared that provide resolution of 20 kilometers and accuracy of 20 centimeters from the Geos-—3 altimetry data. These maps will be used to model flow in the upper mantle and to aid the investigation of subduction zones, where the effects of negative buoyancy and variable viscosity are pronounced. Finally, efforts are under way to analyze laser tracking data on the Lageos satellite. The satellite was conceived and developed by sao to study the long-term tectonic changes in the Earth. Efforts this year have concentrated on obtaining a precise ephemeris. Initial results indicate anomalous changes in the satellite orbit correlated with seismic activity. The most likely explanation is large far field mass displacements resulting from aseismic slip.
Neutral composition data from a mass spectrometer on the S3-1 satellite were used to determine the changes in the temperature structure of the Earth’s lower thermosphere that occur during times of geomagnetic disturbance. This was an important step in the development of a model that will accurately describe the atmospheric variations associated with geomagnetic disturbances in the critical region where the variations originate. A preliminary model of the geomagnetic variations in the lower thermosphere was devised and will be refined using the more comprehensive data that are now available from nasa’s Atmosphere Explorer-C satellite.
Analysis of data from the gravitational redshift experiment continued in the program to test the equivalence principle of Einstein’s Theory of General Relativity. Heavy emphasis continues to be placed on the trajectory solution from the doppler tracking data; tracking data from one station are now being seriously questioned. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory (srt) is providing an independent
Science / 99

<<<Page: 111>>>

evaluation and determination of the trajectory solution. The present level of error in the trajectory limits the accuracy of the test of the equivalence principle to 200 parts per million.
Studies of the theoretical basis for oscillator stability as applied to the thermal noise processes in the hydrogen masers have led to the conclusion that the newest masers operate at the limit of stability and that further improvement in stability is possible by lowtemperature operation. A hydrogen maser has been constructed here that operates successfully at 77°K; and lower temperature operation is expected in the future. If a maser can be operated below 10°K, a substantial improvement in stability should be achievable. The opportunity to use superconducting techniques could offer great promise in this endeavor.
Three masers and spare equipment have been supplied to the Jet Propulsion Laboratories to serve in their Deep Space Tracking Network. These masers were previously used in the ground stations of the redshift experiment and have been refurbished, modified, and extensively tested for use by jpt.
During the last year, the sao laser tracking network and its overseas cooperating stations provided routine tracking data to support ongoing programs in geodesy and geophysics. Precision orbital tracking to support the ocean-surface altimeter experiment aboard the Geos—3 and Seasat satellites and the Earth dynamics measurements on the laser satellites were top priority. The network also provided intensive laser tracking coverage of several low-orbit satellites for the improvement of gravity-field models and the study of Earth and ocean tides. Special attention was given to the development of laser pulse choppers to improve range accuracy to 10 centimeters and to the implementation of NTs receivers to improve network timing to an accuracy of 1-2 microseconds.
The principal activities of the High Energy Astrophysics Division are grouped in three main areas: analysis of data obtained in current or previous missions; planning and development of instrumentation for future space missions for orbiting observatories; and continuing research on energetic phenomena in the universe.
During the past year the Division has gathered a growing amount of extremely interesting and exciting data on galactic and extra-
100 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 112>>>

Dr. Fred L. Whipple, former Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, prepares to discuss the origins and evolution of the Multiple Mirror Telescope project for part of a joint Smithsonian-University of Arizona film about the mmt. Below. One of the six 76-inch mirrors making up the heart of the Multiple Mirror Telescope is lowered into place as the revolutionary telescope neared completion of its construction phases in February 1978 at Mount Hopkins, Arizona.

<<<Page: 113>>>

galactic x-ray sources. New discoveries from instruments on SAS—3 (in collaboration with investigators from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology) and the High Energy Astronomy Observatory (uEAO-1) (currently in orbit), from ground-based telescopes, and even from analysis of the uHuRU satellite data have occurred almost on a weekly basis.
Results from sas—3 observations include the discovery of the nuclei of several Seyfert galaxies including III Zw 2, a cD galaxy in the rich cluster of galaxies Abell 1019, and the narrow line galaxy Anon 0945-30, a member of a class of galaxies that may produce a significant contribution to the x-ray background. Data returned by the scanning modulation collimator experiment on HEAO—1 have provided the precise positions of 70 sources, which comprise 15 new identifications, confirmation of about 30 suggested identifications, and new angular sizes for about 10 clusters of galaxies. HEAO—1 data have also been used in the observation of superclusters and studies of individual cluster emission to determine the existence of large x-ray halos.
Observations made at Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory have led to the discovery of the optical counterpart of a transient x-ray source. In addition, a search for optical pulsations from an x-ray pulsar was carried out and it was found that two more x-ray sources may be identified with globular clusters. Most recently, ground-based observing at Cerro Tololo has led to the discovery of the optical counterparts of two more x-ray sources (one of which is a burst source) as well as optical bursts from an x-ray burst source.
In the area of new technology, Division members have concentrated their efforts on the preparations for the next major mission in x-ray astronomy: The flight of HEAo—s, scheduled for November 1978. The neao-8 is the first high-resolution x-ray space telescope capable of focusing images of astronomical objects. Instruments now being developed by the group include high sensitivity cathodes for x-ray imaging tools, high-speed visible light image converters, improved x-ray spectrometers for use in fusion studies and general x-ray astronomy applications, and improved imaging proportional counters. Several of these activities are aimed at the preparation of focal plane instrumentation suitable for future missions, such as the 1.2-meter telescope and the large-area modular array.
Rocket experiments devoted to the test of prototype HEAO-B in-
102 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 114>>>

struments (imaging proportional counter and the high resolution imaging detector), as well as to the study of extended x-ray sources (Coma), have been developed and flown during the year. Of particular scientific significance have been the flights of the low resolution duo-dimensional mirror and imaging proportional counter for the study of clusters. And, of great importance for the HEAO—B mission were the inflight determinations of background rates for the high resolution imaging detector.
Continuing research on energetic phenomena was considerably aided by the availability of extensive uHuRU data. For example, analyses of uHuRU data led to computation of the Point Summation Technique for use on sources in the Fourth UHURU Catalog. This work, in turn, led to the discovery of x-ray halos around clusters, implying large masses of hot gas in clusters.
Analyses of data provided by the Astronomical Netherlands Satellite have also continued.
The Optical and Infrared Division is involved in programs of extragalactic astronomy, stellar astronomy, and space astronomy, as well as the development of new facilities and instrumentation. Two facilities, the Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmr) at Mount Hopkins, Arizona, and the infrared telescope for Spacelab II, are well under way.
The mrt, a joint venture of sao and the University of Arizona will provide high-quality observational capability equivalent to that of a 175-inch telescope and is scheduled to begin astronomical observations in fiscal year 1979. A program of hardware development, intended to supply state-of-the-art instruments for it, has culminated in the development of two new instruments: the Z-machine (a moderate resolution spectrometer) and the CCD camera. The Z-machine has already been utilized in a redshift survey of nearby bright galaxies, which, ultimately, will contribute greatly to the understanding of the overall distribution of matter in the universe and of fluctuations and turbulence at the time galaxies were forming. Tests performed after the interfacing of the CCD camera system with the 24and 60-inch telescopes indicate that the system can usefully detect brightest cluster galaxies to a redshift of at least z= 0.5. Data were obtained to look for halos around edge-on gal-
Science / 103

<<<Page: 115>>>

axies, and a program of surface photometry of interacting galaxies was begun. Two other instruments, a Michelson-type far-infrared spectrometer and an InSb detector array, are in various stages of development.
The Division’s programs in extragalactic astronomy also include a galaxy radial velocity survey for the ~1100 galaxies brighter than 14th magnitude in the north galactic cap and a survey of optical-infrared colors of very blue and interacting galaxies. A technique for measurement of the Hubble Constant by use of an infrared magnitude, 21-cm-width correlation has been uncovered, while other members of the Division have used grid photography to measure the distribution of light in the outer regions of NGC 4565 down to 1/3000 of the night sky at Agassiz Station. An investigation of cD galaxies in poor clusters shows that the main bodies of these galaxies are similar in absolute magnitude and color to the brightest ellipticals in rich clusters, such as M87.
The infrared telescope, a small, helium-cooled infrared telescope experiment for the Spacelab 2 mission of the Space Shuttle, is due to be launched in 1981. The definition phase study, carried out by an SAO group, was completed in April 1978; the experiment will be performed in cooperation with the University of Arizona, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, and nasa Ames Research Center.
The May 1978 flight of the 102-cm balloon-borne far-infrared telescope, which carries the University of Palermo four-color photometer, was terminated by a balloon failure during ascent. The flight package was returned safely and is in operating condition. Two major items had been added to the payload this year: a video inertial pointing system (Nasa Ames Research Center) and a silicon intensified television camera as a finder telescope.
Reduction of data from previous flights continues. Observations of the outer planets have confirmed the absence of an internal heat source for Uranus and the presence of one for Neptune, and the first far-infrared observations of an asteroid, Ceres, were made. A new compact far-infrared and CO source was discovered, which probably represents an early stage of stellar evolution. A new model of the H II region M17 was developed by comparison of farinfrared and radio maps.
Infrared observations of the most luminous quasar were made at Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory. In a search for candidate
104 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 116>>>

infrared identifications, about 80 not-visible objects were found ranging down to K= +49, but none could be identified with an x-ray source; the brightest were identified as luminous late-type stars and include four newly discovered supergiants.
A member of the Division is principal investigator for an observation program on the International Ultraviolet Explorer (1ue) satellite, which is observing spectroscopically x-ray sources, globular clusters, chromospheres, and a range of late-type stars. So far, data returned by tue have revealed conditions in the centers of globular clusters that could definitely test the theory that black holes reside there.
Early type stellar winds and a mechanism to produce coronal gas in such winds are the subjects of new research. The Harvard Plate Collection has been used in a study of the cool emission-line dwarfs; long-period variability that may be analogous to solar activity and cycles has been revealed.
Interstellar line research has resulted in the first optical detection of molecular carbon toward £ Oph. Analysis of some Fe VII and Fe X interstellar emission-line searches has given upper limits on the emission measure of the ionized gas in the 10°-10° K range in the supernova remnants W28 and Vela.
The Division carries out a wide variety of solar system investigations that exclude the sun and concentrate on lunar studies, comets, and asteroids. Of particular importance is research related to the origin of the solar system.
The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams continues to be located at the Center for Astrophysics under the directorship of a Division member. Some 150 Circulars were issued during the year. In addition, the same member of the Division assumed on July 1, 1978, the directorship of the IAU Minor Planet Center and the responsibility for issuing the Minor Planet Circulars.
Studies were made of the few lunar samples that appear to represent specimens of the deep lunar crust. These investigations are part of a first step to model the initial evolution of the lunar crust. Other analyses of lunar material included descriptive studies of soil returned by the Soviet Luna 24 mission, and a study of Apollo 12
Science / 105

<<<Page: 117>>>

soil samples—in particular, a unique clod of exceptionally Ti-rich red-glass spherules. This clod could represent an impact-melted ilmenite cumulate rather than a product of volcanic fire-fountaining, which has been the general interpretation for spherule-aggregates found elsewhere on the moon.
In cometary research, an investigation of the gravitational interaction between two fragments of a split comet has shown that their relative motion depends so critically on the circumstances at breakup that the velocity of separation as derived from observations of the split comets is not straightforwardly correlated with the mass of the comet. The existence of binary cometary nuclei appears unlikely but not entirely impossible.
A method for determining the axis of rotation of the nucleus of a comet showing outbursts has been developed. The method depends on asymmetric ejection of material as measured by asymmetry in the observed coma. Successful application of the method has been made to Comet P/Schwassmann-Wachmann 1. The observed behavior of this comet has also been found to support the hypothesis of crustal formation by amorphous ices. The new theory for the outbursts involves a chain reaction of falling crust that follows a small local triggering event.
A theory to determine the rotation periods of the nuclei of comets that exhibit single active areas for some period of time has been developed. The new method has been successfully applied to 6 comets in which the periods of nuclear rotation range from 4.6 to 121 hours and supports dramatically evidence for the presence of a thick insulating crust.
Solar system studies include investigation of the structure and evolution of isolated giant gaseous protoplanets that are formed as a result of gravitational instabilities in the primitive solar nebula. It has been found that for masses on the order of a Jupiter mass or less that the interiors passed through the liquid fields of common meteoritic materials. It was further determined that a remarkably short time exists for coalescence and rain-out of liquid droplets of these materials into a central core. Tidal stripping of protoplanetary envelopes from these cores can occur out to about the orbit of Jupiter, but the precise conditions are sensitive to the surface conditions, which change when protoplanets are embedded in the primitive solar nebula. Study of the embedded structures has begun.
106 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 118>>>

Other solar system studies include the first phase of a quantitative explanation of the azimuthal brightness variations of Saturn’s Ring A and investigation of three-dimensional modeling that may provide estimates of the ring thickness. A detailed set of predictions for observations of mutual events of the Jovian and Asturnian satellites has been issued. And, the motion of apparently stable but nonlibrating asteroids in the outer belt has been examined to set limits on Jupiter’s eccentricity and the effect of Jupiter and Saturn on long-term dynamical depopulation of the middle belt.
Neutrino studies in the Homestake Mine, North Dakota, have been carried out at 1100, 1850, and 4850-foot depths. *‘Ar activities of 14.1 + 1.0, 3.0 + 0.6, < 1.0 decays per day from 9.7 X 107" °°K atoms were found. A cosmic-ray background of 0.97 SNU is estimated for the *‘Cl— *‘Ar solar neutrino experiment and a decay-mode independent stability limit for nucleons of 2.2 10°° years is determined from these measurements.
The research objectives of the Radio Astronomy Division concentrate on microwave atomic and molecular spectroscopy of the interstellar medium, very long baseline interferometry of galactic and extragalactic sources, participation in the Very Long Baseline Interferometry Network, laboratory microwave and submillimeter wave spectroscopy of molecules of astrophysical interest, and experiments in radio aeronomy.
Spectroscopic research on interstellar OH provided for the first time unmistakable evidence of magnetic splitting. Several molecular investigations of interstellar clouds continued, including research on sulphur monoxide, methyl alcohol, the hydroxyl radical, water, and silicon monoxide. Observations with a newly developed millimeter wave atmospheric molecular spectrometer demonstrated the mesospheric growth of nighttime ozone and its rapid decay at dawn. Supporting laboratory research investigated the pressure broadening of ozone. The Harvard Radio Astronomy Station at Fort Davis, Texas, expanded its participation in very long baseline interferometry research programs.
The Solar and Stellar Physics Division carries out a broad range of research activities that focus on the sun as it relates to the solar-
Science / 107

<<<Page: 119>>>

terrestrial environment, to other stars, and to astrophysical processes. The analyses of Skylab solar data from the Evv spectrometer and the soft x-ray telescope continued. Work on the physics of active regions and flares showed important results for the energy balance of flare loops. Other studies concentrated on the steady-state heating of magnetically confined coronal loops of all scales from small ephemeral bipolar loops in the low corona to large-scale coronal structures. The dynamics of the expanding solar wind were investigated as well as the nonradial geometry of coronal holes.
An atlas of the solar spectrum from 225 A to 3200 A, observed with high spectral resolution (28 mA), was published, using data obtained during a 1974 sounding rocket flight. The atlas also displays a theoretical solar spectrum at the same spectral region, which was calculated using stellar spectral synthesis programs developed within the Division.
The long-term variability of solar activity was studied under the auspices of the sao Langley-Abbot Program. Significant results included the discovery of an apparent slowing of the overall rotation rate of sunspots over the past 100 years. In addition, study of the relative rotation rate of gas and magnetic fields in the solar surface layers has led to a qualitative description of the variation of rotation with depth below the surface, which is important to understanding the dynamics of convection and rotation in the interior. This is expected to be valuable in studies of the solar activity cycle, and possibly its long-term variations.
In the area of stellar research, members of the Division are participating with members of the Optical and Infrared Astronomy Division in the initial observing programs of the recently launched International Ultraviolet Explorer satellite. Chromospheres and coronas of late-type stars have been observed, as well as binary x-ray sources and globular clusters. The Copernicus satellite has been used in studies of the interstellar medium. Concomitant theoretical studies included development of model atmospheres and prediction of spectra of early and late stars, as well as the interpretation of flare statistics from dMe stars and other transient sources in comparison with solar flares.
The Theoretical Astrophysics Division carries out research on a di-
108 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 120>>>

verse range of astrophysical phenomena, with theoretical studies often applied to the support and interpretation of observational data. Division members frequently work in collaboration with members of other divisions as well as with scientists in other institutions. In addition, they contribute significantly to the educational programs of the Observatory.
Valuable progress was achieved in the understanding of inter‘stellar dust grains, of charge transfer processes in the interstellar gas, of the mechanisms of star formation in molecular clouds, and of the physical processes that occur in x-ray sources.
Important advances occurred in basic studies of stellar dynamics, gravitational theory, radiative transfer, kinetic theory, quantum mechanics, and cosmology.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Tropical habitats are extraordinary for their overwhelming diversity of plants and animals, the variety and apparent perfection of their adaptations, and the intricacy of the relationships that link them. Tropical disguises are one example: a twig, or a bird dropping, or a dead leaf, may be an insect pretending to its predators that it is something else.
Some squid and octopi of tropical waters can change color like chameleons, matching their backgrounds or assuming bold patterns as signals to other animals as circumstances require. Some tropical marine fish possess elaborate social systems, where a few large males garner most of the matings. In some species this is offset by all individuals being born female and only turning male when “large enough to hold their own.” Others solve the problems of “the useless male”’ by being both sexes at once. Some plants must attract and culture biting ants to protect them from marauding herbivores or strangling vines.
It is as if the overwhelming variety of organisms assured the exploitation of every opportunity by something well suited to the task (if it weren’t, it would be replaced by something better). Much of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s task is concerned with elucidating such examples of particularly perfect or bizarre
Science / 109

<<<Page: 121>>>

adaptation, understanding their context, and learning how this incredible variety of plants and animals fits together to form a community.
The tropics are not merely of academic interest. Tropical forests, for example, are seemingly a culminating climax of evolutionary process, where man has not only failed to maintain dense populations in any comfort, but (at least in some areas) seems well on the way to making a desert. Worldwide, it is estimated that tropical moist forests are being destroyed at a rate of 21 ha/min. Studying such a forest for its own sake, on its own terms, where one can take the time to be curious about it without imposing upon it the preconceptions, and the sheer hurry, of trying to discover how best to use it, may help us learn why nature has succeeded where man has so conspicuously failed. It also provides an essential context of basic understanding without which applied research would wither and die.
The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (str1) provides two unique opportunities for students of the tropics. It administers Barro Colorado Island, a well-protected tract of moist forest with an unusually complete vertebrate fauna. There are vaster tracts of forest in the tropics, and forests with more kinds of animals, but no other tropical forest community of comparable quality is so easily reached, or so well studied, as Barro Colorado. stri also has marine stations on both sides of this narrow isthmus, permitting one to compare the communities of the relatively clear, nutrient-poor, waters of the Caribbean, with its elaborate coral reefs, with the richer, more turbid waters of the Gulf of Panama, whose luxuriant soft-bottom mollusc communities resemble those which lived from Trinidad to Ecuador before the isthmus blocked the seaway three million years ago. The value of these locales is immensely enhanced by the steady stream of graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, many financed by Smithsonian programs, who pursue research projects here. These students form an essential part of the “‘critical mass” of the stri scientific community.
Some examples of the research conducted during the past year are presented. These students, however, would not work here in such numbers, or to such effect, without the wealth of background information built up by their predecessors. When Marcel and Annette Hladik came a decade ago, for their pioneering study of the response
110 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 122>>>

— . teammate SS ais:
Deforestation in the Panama Canal watershed. One of the objectives of the new Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s Office of Conservation is to coordinate the action of various government agencies to prevent such devastation. Below. Acanthaster planci feeding in a mixed patch of Caribbean and Pacific corals. These animals were maintained in isolation in a 115 kl (30,400 gal) tank at Naos Island.

<<<Page: 123>>>

of monkey diets to seasonal changes in food supply, naming plants from Barro Colorado was a forbidding task, feasible only for professional botanists. When they returned this year to test methods of measuring fruit production in the forest, they found tagged, identified trees, keys for identifying plants from leaf and twig, a herbarium, and collections of identified seeds and seedlings, which would allow any industrious student to identify most plants. Thomas Croat’s immensely detailed flora of Barro Colorado will soon be published, providing further help. Similarly, Robert Ridgely’s excellent field guide has transformed the identification of birds from an esoteric art to an everyday hobby. Identifying the insects on the Island is still a very difficult and chancy business, but Hindrik Wolda and Robert Silberglied are arranging for the professional identification of a multitude of insects and forming synoptic collections; Annette Aiello is rearing a variety of caterpillars to see what they will become; Terry and LaVerne Erwin are pusuing the taxonomy of the local groundbeetles, and Henry Hespenheide, that of the leafminers. As this taxonomic work continues, the work of other researchers is greatly facilitated.
Seven years ago, an environmental monitoring program was founded to systematize the recording of seasonal and year-to-year changes in climate, and their effects on the community. Fluctuations in rainfall and the resulting changes in soil moisture, are most nearly decisive for the community, through their effect on the phenology of the different forest trees, their schedules of flowering, fruiting, production of new leaves, and dropping of old ones. The program also measures aspects of forest production, primarily litter fall, and monitors consuming populations by trapping, marking, and releasing terrestrial mammals and censusing insects attracted to light traps.
The monitoring program has greatly influenced research on Barro Colorado Island. With Environmental Sciences Program support, Miguel Estribi is monitoring fruit production by 125 fig trees, finding some in fruit at any season of the year. Charles Handley and a host of collaborators have netted over 6000 bats in the first 20 months of a study of population fluctuations, ranging behavior, and breeding cycles of the various bats that live on this least seasonal of all forest foods. Douglas Morrison, who began the fig study 5 years ago, has returned to study by means of radio tracking, the
112 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 124>>>

feeding and roosting habits of bats. The Environmental Sciences Program also allows students of, say, the pollination of particular flowers or the dispersal of particular fruits, to time their arrival appropriately, and it provides many students with needed background information.
More generally, by providing a context, it permits us to see how the many specific studies in progress on this island help us toward understanding the community as a whole, and allows us to pinpoint the gaps in our understanding.
Many other scientists have sought to learn about the animals and plants of Barro Colorado from their response to seasonal changes in their environment and have directly or indirectly benefited from the Environmental Sciences Program monitoring. For example, Katharine Milton is continuing her work on population regulation in howling monkeys, showing how seasonal changes in the availability of suitable food affects diet, ranging patterns, and the degree of aggression between troops. She is currently concerned with how howlers choose what they eat: is the choice dictated by the presence or absence of toxins, or nutritional quality? William Glanz and Jacqueline Madden have been laying foundations for long-term studies of the island’s squirrel population, which is now unusually dense. Andrea Worthington has begun a two-year study of the feeding strategy of fruit-eating birds. Fruit as a food source varies in seasonal and spatial abundance.
Henry Howe has finished the first stage of studying what is essentially the same problem from the plant’s point of view: how do different trees attract birds to disperse their fruit; why do some species fruit in close synchrony and others not, and why do some species attract a wide variety of dispersal agents while others attract a specialist suited to their needs? George Angehr is studying how the behavior and territory-forming habits of hummingbirds is affected by the removal of dominant individuals, in relation to nectar supply and time of year.
Hindrik Wolda is in the fourth year of a study relating insect population fluctuations to seasonal changes in climate and the availability of new leaves. He has shown that tropical insect populations fluctuate as much as their temperate counterparts. Judy Gradwohl and Russell Greenberg are studying the ““antwren flocks” of the forest understudy and the ecological roles played by war-
Science / 113

<<<Page: 125>>>

blers migrating from the northern winter. Each flock forms about a pair of checker-spotted and a pair of white-flanked antwrens, which feed together and defend a common territory against other flocks. Do these flocks seek out trees with new leaves? Does their behavior change with seasonal change in the availability of new leaves and the insects they attract?
Sally Levings has finished a third year of sampling small arthropods in the leaf litter of the forest floor, trying to learn how different categories of these arthropods vary in relating to seasonal changes in climate and in thickness of leaf litter. During the severe dry season, the forest drops many of its leaves. However, these leaves begin to decay in earnest, and the numbers of leaf litter arthropods begin to increase, when the rains come. Nigel Franks is beginning a two-year study of population regulation in army ants, which eat some litter arthropods. Milton Clark is following seasonal changes in abundance and reproduction of forest floor frogs. Stanley Rand, Robin Andrews, and Stella Guerrero continue to examine the population dynamics of the small forest floor lizard Anolis limifrons, whose numbers seem to be unaffected by food supply, seasonal changes in climate, and apparently by the malaria (of a kind peculiar to lizards) which most of them carry. The sea-
1973 Sr/s] SIZ WSIrAS} 1977 The monthly mean maximum and minimum air temperatures recorded on
Barro Colorado Island in two locations: (1) in the forest (“weir-”) and (2) in the laboratory clearing (‘“CL-”).
114 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 126>>>

sonal changes in activity on the forest floor, may be decisive to the life of the forest: the nutrients released by the rotting litter may help fuel the burst of forest production at the beginning of the rainy season, thereby contributing to the season of growth for the forest’s animals.
These, and many other studies, show how thoroughly the alteration of dry and rainy seasons have impressed themselves on every feature of the biology of this forest. We can learn something of how this community’s balance is maintained from its response to unseasonable events. For example, heavy rains in the dry season of 1970 prevented many trees from flowering, greatly reducing that fall’s fruit crop and causing many mammals to starve.
There is a concurrent Environmental Sciences Program at Galeta, the Caribbean marine laboratory, which records climate, tidal fluctuations, sea water temperature and salinity, and seasonal changes in the reef community. The laboratory fronts on a reef flat, which can be roughly divided into a coralline algae zone where the surf breaks; an outer zone of red algae; a zone dominated, at least at times, by colonial anemones; a turtlegrass zone; and an inner red algae zone. The program monitors fluctuations in the boundaries of these zones and the proportion of available space occupied by different species in each zone. This program has documented the devastation wrought when tides leave the reef flat exposed during sunny days. Such exposures, which happen once or twice a year, devastate populations of urchins and colonial anemones, kill large numbers of octopi, and visibly alter the appearance of the reef flat. Such seemingly catastrophic exposure are much rarer in the bay of Panama, or in temperate areas such as the outer coast of the Pacific Northwest, despite their greater tidal ranges.
At Galeta, John Cubit added to the synoptic collections started by previous laboratory directors. The environmental monitoring program has supported a two-year study of the dissemination and abundance of algae by Bruce Harger and Mark Hay. Hay has shown that many algae living on isolated rocks in the “sand plain” below the reef front, will die if transplanted to the reef, unless they are protected from the grazers there. Grazing fish, that readily eat these algae if transplanted to the reef, will not venture out on that sand plain because it offers them no cover from their predators. Herbivores and predators have a much more visible effect on the
Science / 115

<<<Page: 127>>>

texture of the “landscape” at Galeta than they do on Barro Colorado Island.
Comparable projects are under way in the eastern Pacific. Bruce Menge and Jane Lubchenco, are studying the relative roles of competition, predation, herbivory, and “disturbance” in controlling the distribution of intertidal plants and animals on the rocky shore of an island near Naos, the Pacific marine laboratory. They find that sessile creatures such as barnacles, mussels, and algae are eaten to the extent that they never become “over-crowded,” and never encounter serious competition for space. ‘“Zonation” is accordingly much less prevalent here than on the exposed coasts of Maine or Oregon, for example, where one level of the shore may be packed solid with mussels, while above is a “barnacle zone” and below is a solid mass of seaweeds.
Peter Glynn has been continuing his studies of the reef communities of the eastern Pacific. While the molluscs of the Bay of Panama closely resemble their counterparts of the Miocene, eastern Pacific corals probably descend from relatively recent immigrants from the Indo Pacific. Glynn is interested in the ages and growth rates of these reefs. He is also concerned with the factors governing the distribution of reefs, how reefs react to the excess of nutrients associated with upwellings (the nutrients may, on balance, be more harmful than the coldness of the water), and the effects of reefdestroying organisms. He has found, for example, that in the Galapagos sea urchins have greatly restricted the distribution of reef corals, while on mainland shores the fish which eat these urchins are more common, and do not allow these urchins to become sufficiently abundant to destroy mainland reefs.
Geerat Vermeij and Edith Zipser visited the Naos marine laboratory in connection with their studies of tropical molluscs. They can recognize how a snail or clam died from the damage its shell sustained. They have analyzed shell features which make it more difficult for various predators. For example, knobs discourage pufferfish crushing, while a smooth shell offers little purchase for a shellcrushing crab. They are now studying the distribution of mollusc shell shapes, and the types of predation between the Bay of Panama, with its nutrient-rich upwellings, and the Gulf of Chiriqui, where upwelling does not occur. They hope that further knowledge of the molluscs of the eastern Pacific will provide perspective of
116 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 128>>>

how the closing of the sea way at Panama affected the living molluscan fauna of Florida, Panama, the West Indies, and Northern South America.
Sexual selection is especially interesting to biologists because it so often favors baroque characteristics that appear to be detrimental for the species. Analysis of such conflicts between an individual’s advantage and the good of its group are often instructive of how evolution works. Naida Zucker is studying sexual selection in fiddler crabs at Naos. She wishes to know how a female crab chooses her mate, and what advantages she derives from choosing her mate in the way she does.
Leo Buss is studying a minute isopod which overcomes a sexual selection discriminating against smaller, younger males by being born female and turning male when large enough to attract mates, or to defend itself against other males. The young isopods feed on a coralline alga, adult females on one sort of bryozoan, and males on another. These isopods are most abundant on rocks with all three food species, and Buss is now studying how these isopods adjust competitive relationships between the coralline algae and the two bryozoans so that they all can continue to coexist on the same rock. This relationship is remarkably precise: the two successive molts of juvenile isopods living on coralline algae resemble the holes made by serpulids and barnacles respectively. The bryozoan eaten by males has structures that would kill smaller isopods. Work continues to decipher how this relationship evolved.
The evolution of social behavior also fascinates biologists here, individual advantage seems often to be subordinated to the good of the species. Very often, the advantage of the individual is ‘‘sacrificed” on behalf of its family, thus increasing the proportions of the population carrying that individual’s genes, since its relatives are more likely to share these than other members of the population. At Cali, Colombia, Mary Jane West Eberhard is studying the role of such “kin selection” in the evolution of social behavior in wasps. Not all cooperative behavior, however, is to help relatives.
Communication plays an essential role in social behavior. Some years ago Martin Moynihan suggested that vertebrates communicate largely through combinations of perhaps 15—40 stereotyped “displays,” and that this number represents a steady state between the origin of new displays and the decay of old ones “. . . the
Science / 117

<<<Page: 129>>>

probable evolution of displays is comparable to what is known to happen to certain human signals. A particularly ‘strong’ word or phrase, for example an obscenity or striking new technical term, is apt to be very impressive and effective when it first begins to be used. Simply because it is effective, it tends to be used more and more frequently. And, unless constantly reinforced, it becomes essentially meaningless and should be replaced.” Beverly Dugan is studying the ecology and social behavior of iguanas on Flamenco Island, near Naos. Iguanas are among the few herbivorous lizards, and, for some reason, have a remarkably small repertoire of basic displays.
Arcadio Rodaniche is studying communication among octopi in the laboratory. Their powers of color change permit them spectacular displays some of which are shared by other cephalopods separated from them by nearly two hundred million years of evolution. Moreover, some octopi have a display repertoire as limited as an iguana’s and others a repertoire as varied as a monkey’s.
Mark Bertness has been studying the ecology of hermit crabs on both coasts. He finds, both in the field and in the laboratory, that when more empty shells are available, hermit crabs grow faster and become larger, and few of them reproduce. Moreover, if the same habitat contains both a dominant and a subordinate species, the subordinates grow less and reproduce more, because the dominants monopolize the “better” shells. Therefore, the high reproductive rate of the subordinate crab does not reflect a favorable environment.
Jane Wulff has been studying the relationship between sponges and corals in the San Blas Islands, off the Caribbean coast of Panama. Sponges play a vital role in binding some corals to the reef, and if one snips the sponge away from these corals, the corals are far more likely to be knocked off the reef. What do the sponges get out of it? Jane will first check whether they are less likely to be eaten when situated on the corals.
By way of studying some of the intricacies of tropical adaptations, Michael and Barbara Robinson have been examining the leafmimicking mantid Acanthops falcata whose females occur in several different forms. They find that Acanthops mates in the twenty minutes or so after sunrise, the time is controlled by light level rather than by an internal clock. Females release a pheromone at this time, which attracts the male. This is a time of the day when the light
118 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 130>>>

Assistant Secretary for Science David Challinor presided at the opening of the new Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s Tivoli administration building. With him from left to right, Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Director, str1; Dr. Aristides Royo, Minister of Education, Republic of Panama; and Dr. Hugo Spadafora, ViceMinister of Health, Republic of Panama. Below. Panama praying mantid Phyllorates chlorophaea being studied by M. H. Robinson and B. Robinson mating—in this species the female does not always eat the male after mating.

<<<Page: 131>>>

level is still lower than that required for foraging birds, an important predator of mantids.
Neal Smith is continuing his research on the day-flying moth Urania fulgens, which periodically migrates in great swarms. He would like to know what stimulates them to migrate. Donald Windsor has begun to study chrysomelid beetles of the cassidine group, enquiring what they eat, what eats them, and how their larvae behave. One species, Achromis bispersa, cares for its immature offspring, while Polychalma multicaya does not. Why?
One of the advantages for students and visitors at strI is the experience many of the stri staff are acquiring of other tropical areas, and the perspective this confers. Olga Linares has been studying the Diola peoples of Senegal. Alan Smith has been comparing rosette plants in habitats above tree line in Kenya, Venezuela, and Papua New Guinea. These plants are rather distantly related, yet all have evolved the same shape, a shape which he has shown allows them to function better in the cold. He is also comparing how fast they grow, how soon they die, and what controls their populations. Ross Robertson has been working at Heron Island on Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, documenting how the habitats of the different species of damselfishes are distinct.
Martin Moynihan has been comparing social systems and modes of communication in various animals the world around. He is now interested in the social systems of the kingfishers, rollers, and hornbills in Africa, all predatory birds of the same order, but with very odd sex-ratios and very peculiar behavior. One species of roller has four females for every male, while one of the kingfishers has six males for every female. Why such variation? Understanding the seemingly unreasonable helps us understand the variety of ways evolution can work.
A number of political and administrative events of note occurred last year. In June, President Carter visited Panama to exchange the instruments of ratification of the new Panama Canal Treaty with General Omar Torrijos. Earlier in the year, while the treaty was being debated in the Senate, about half of the Senators visited the Isthmus and several included a visit to stri in their agenda.
Under the terms of the Treaty, Barro Colorado Island and three east bank peninsulas Bohio, Buena Vista, and Frijoles, as well as one west bank peninsula, will become part of the expanded Barro
120 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 132>>>

Colorado Island Nature Monument. This designation is derived from Article IV of the 1940 Convention on Nature Protection and Wildlife Preservation in the Western Hemisphere. The agreement concerning the Smithsonian custodianship of the Barro Colorado Island Nature Monument will be transmitted by both countries to the Inter-American Economic and Social Council of the Organization of American States. Other parts of the Panama Canal Treaty authorize the continued use by the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute of other facilities in Ancon, Galeta, and Naos Island.
Mr. Luis R. del Rio was appointed new Administrative Officer and Dr. Harilaos Lessios from Yale University joined the scientific staff.
Dr. Nicholas Smythe was named the first Conservation Coordinator at stRI and is busy relating str1 basic research to government officials concerned with national parks, deforestation, and other environmental issues. This office will also strengthen cooperative links between tropical regions and developed countries and with international organizations. Mr. Dennis Josephs was appointed Educational Coordinator in May and completed a course on environmental education for twenty-two secondary school teachers and their supervisors designated by the Panama Ministry of Education.
In June the renovation of the Tivoli administration building was finally completed and Dr. David Challinor officiated at the opening ceremonies which were attended by many Canal Zone and Republic of Panama officials. In August, we received a gift of a 63-foot steel hulled, twin-engined vessel from a donor in New Orleans. Tom Borges, our Facilities Manager, and a crew of stri volunteers transported the vessel to Panama where it is currently being overhauled for research use. We hope that the R.V. Benjamin will augment the capacity of our marine scientists to conduct research in tropical America.
Our program of short-term fellowship was continued with grants from the Exxon Foundation, The Edward John Noble Foundation, the Smithsonian Office of Public Service’s Outreach Program, and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science Scholarly Studies Program.
In October, Mrs. Adela Gomez was presented with the Smithsonian Institution Secretary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional Service, an award truly deserved.
Science / 121

<<<Page: 133>>>

Jikoku-ten (one of a set of Shitenno), early fourteenth century, Kamakura period, Japanese, wood sculpture, polychrome. Height 2642 inches (67.3 centimeters). Freer Gallery of Art Accession Number 77.19.

<<<Page: 134>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
Piotr y AND TART
Archives of American Art
Most of the documentary records acquired by the Archives reflect the history of American art in the twentieth century. Acquisitions made in 1978 conformed to this pattern, but some particularly important material dating from earlier times added special interest to the year’s collecting.
A group of previously unknown letters from the landscape painter Homer Martin (1836-1897) and his wife to James Stillman, a New York art collector, tells us much about Martin’s life in France in the 1880s and during his last sad years of struggle against poverty and impending blindness. They also reveal the role of the patron (Stillman), acting as benevolent agent for the sale of an artist’s work.
The most active and best-known patron of American art in the same period was Thomas B. Clarke, a New York merchant who devoted much of his time, money, and energy to the promotion of works by contemporary painters. Eleven scrapbook volumes containing clippings, photographs, catalogues, and letters document the activity from Clarke’s early involvement in the 1870s to the 1920s. They also incorporate a wealth of information on the late nineteenth-century art world of New York, Boston, and other centers.
A third and slightly later collector, John Gellatly, is notable for having given his many works of art to the Smithsonian Institution, where the collection forms a part of the National Collection of Fine

<<<Page: 135>>>

Arts. A major group of letters to Gellatly from Albert Pinkham Ryder, Abbott Thayer, Irving Wiles, and Frederick S. Church, recently acquired by the National Collection of Fine Arts and deposited in the Archives, represents useful documentation on his relationships with those artists.
The American art market in general is further documented in the correspondence and other records of the American Art Association, the leading art auction house in the country in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. This collection, much of it dealing with the activities of the Association’s president, Thomas M. Kirby, supplements the firm’s ledgers and account books acquired by the Archives in 1974.
The papers of Russell Smith, a painter of scenery for theaters up and down the East Coast, cover the years from the 1830s to his death in 1896 and contain a considerable family correspondence as well as letters from such figures as Rembrandt Peale, Edwin Booth, and Susan B. Anthony. Additional and related records in the collection are the papers of Russell Smith’s son Xanthus, a marine painter. His correspondence and writings include an extended description of the Centennial art exhibition in Philadelphia and a biographical sketch of his sister Mary, whose early death cut short her promising career as a painter of chickens and small animals.
Correspondence, sketches, and clippings of David Claypoole Johnson (1797-1865), widely known as the American Cruikshank, and of his sons Thomas G. and John B. show another instance of family talent. Ellen Day Hale (1854-1939), a Boston painter whose brother Philip was a well-known artist and teacher, is represented _ by sketchbooks and calendar diaries of the 1870s and 1880s. An unusual feature of her papers is a series of sketches of government figures made when her father, Edward Everett Hale, was Chaplain of the United States Senate in the early years of this century.
Some of the most important and interesting of the twentiethcentury collections received include several photograph albums kept by Waldo Peirce, with snapshots of Ernest Hemingway, Max Eastman, and Gertrude Stein; the extensive correspondence of Peppino Mangravite covering the years from the 1920s to the present, with letters from many notable artists of our time; diaries, notes, and correspondence kept by Beatrice Wood, a painter and ceramist and intimate friend of the Arensbergs and Marcel Du-
124 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 136>>>

champ; a microfilm of Marsden Hartley’s essays and poems; the papers of the curator and writer Emanuel Benson, which include Calder, Lyonel Feininger, John Marin, Ben Shahn, Alfred Stieglitz, and dozens of others’ letters, many of them illustrated; a long series of letters from Mark Tobey to the California collectors Joyce and Arthur Dahl; and the personal and professional records of the scholar and museum director Perry Rathbone.
Gallery records, always a prime source of information on the art world, were an important aspect of Archives’ acquisitions. The correspondence and other business papers of Jacques Seligmann, Inc., the New York branch of a Paris firm, cover the entire twentieth century to date and, with over 100,000 items, represent one of the Archives’ largest single collections. Records of the Rehn and Fischbach Galleries in New York and of the HCE Gallery in Provincetown are, if less voluminous, certainly of major importance to students of American art from the 1940s to the 1970s.
Several informative taped interviews were conducted during the year under the Archives’ Oral History Program. Reminiscences and observations of the painters Robert Bechtle, Archibald Motley, Nathan Oliveira, and Hassel Smith; the sculptors Walker Hancock and Tony Smith; the writers Marshall Davidson and Alfred Frankenstein; and such influential figures as Porter McCray, and Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson were recorded and are being transcribed.
The organization and cataloguing of the collections, a major aspect of the Archives’ work, resulted in over 2500 catalogue cards describing and analyzing groups of records and individual items. Use of Archives’ holdings by researchers continued to rise, with 2570 research visits made to the five Archives centers and 1190 rolls of microfilm sent out through interlibrary loans to scholars and students here and abroad. Both figures represent a 10-percent increase over the previous year.
Books, articles, exhibition catalogues, and dissertations flow from research conducted at the Archives. Among those completed in the past year have been a major survey of American art to 1900; a catalogue and articles on the Synchromist movement; dissertations on Louis Lozowick, Philip Evergood, Romare Bearden, and Olin Levi Warner; a book on the Mark Rothko Estate suit; a catalogue raisonne of the works of Jackson Pollock; biographies of Arthur B. Davies and Dorothea Lange; and exhibition catalogues on the work
History and Art / 125

<<<Page: 137>>>

of Stuart Davis, Edwin H. Blashfield, the John Quinn Collection, and the New York School.
The Archives service to scholarship is not confined to assembling and preserving documentation. Items from its holdings were displayed in connection with ten museum exhibitions, and fifteen talks were given by staff members. The New England center sponsored a series of six lectures on American art by authorities in the field and organized an exhibition and catalogue based on the archives of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The Midwest center held a film series on women artists, and the West Coast office conducted a panel discussion on American art studies in the Bay area. The Washington, D. C., office prepared and published A Manual for Archives Technicians and A Checklist of the Collection, 2d edition, revised. The Archives of American Art Journal continued to provide readers information on Archives’ holdings and acquisitions and to open its pages to scholarly articles on American art.
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design and Decorative Arts
The Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened its second fall season with the first major exhibition of its collections, entitled “More Than Meets the Eye.” A selection of over 500 objects, including prints, drawings, textiles, and decorative arts from the Museum’s vast holdings, was exhibited in a series of self-contained but inter-related categories, each devoted to a particular process of design. Since the collections had not been seen on this scale since the Museum became part of the Smithsonian, the exhibition proved to be extremely popular with the public—so much so that a second Collection exhibition called “Look Again!” was installed.
In addition to the two exhibitions of the Collection, CooperHewitt objects were included in twenty-six shows outside of the Museum. Among the borrowing institutions were: the Hayward Gallery (London, England), The Metropolitan Museum of Art (New York, N.Y.), the Minneapolis Institute of Arts (Minneapolis, Minn.), the University of Chicago David and Alfred Smart Gallery (Chicago, Ill.), New York University Grey Art Gallery (New York, N.Y.), The Jewish Museum (New York, N.Y.), and the Renwick Gallery (Washington, D.C.).
126 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 138>>>

Deve
# Hehe cbs : " berg b Aaah
43 a EE
Sarton
Annual Members’ Garden party at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Below. Visitors at the opening of the show “Celebration of Water” in the Contemporary Design Gallery of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
: 4 a 4 a | a |e \

<<<Page: 139>>>

Participation in the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s workshop, classes, seminars, and lectures increased in fiscal year 1978. Here a children’s class is conducted by Jenet Hoffmann. Below. A quilter at the quilting workshop held in the fall of 1977.

<<<Page: 140>>>

The major exhibition “Embroidery Through the Ages” opened in June and was on view until mid-September; it filled two floors of the Museum and consisted of two parts. One-half of the show was an exhibition loaned from the Musée des Arts Decoratifs in Paris; the other half presented the Museum’s own collection of “Western European Embroideries.” The catalogue produced for the latter is the first in a special series of publications planned on various aspects of the Cooper-Hewitt Collection.
The embroidery festival was followed by ‘’Cross-Currents: Neoclassical French and Italian Drawings and Prints from the CooperHewitt Collection.” This exhibition featured a selection of 135 drawings and prints of late eighteenthand nineteenth-century architecture and ornament designs, along with related objects.
In addition to its major exhibitions, the Cooper-Hewitt has had a series of small shows in the Contemporary Design Gallery. They have covered a wide range of pertinent issues including architectural drawings, vernacular architecture, and design for occasion and function. The Gallery also was host to a traveling exhibition entitled “The Museum of Drawers,” a self-contained unit of miniatures by 500 painters, sculptors, and architects.
The Museum staged its second Immovable Objects exhibition last winter. “Subways,” as it was entitled, consisted of a tabloidstyle catalogue sold at newsstands throughout New York City, related programs, seminars, tours, and an exhibition in the newly renovated station at 42d Street and Avenue of the Americas, one of the busiest in the city. The display was open 24 hours a day in an area that was traversed by 28,500 people daily. The exhibition, which dealt with the design of rapid-transit systems worldwide, was requested by eighteen cities on four continents. It is being circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, along with “Cross-Currents’” and “Close Observation,” an exhibition of Frederick Church sketches from the Cooper-Hewitt Collection.
Seventy-one dedicated volunteers served in all curatorial departments as well as in the library, in the education department, in the exhibitions department, and in the office of public relations. A formal museum training program was also initiated. Twenty-three interns participated, three of whom received $500 fellowships pro-
History and Art / 129

<<<Page: 141>>>

vided by Mrs. Celia Seigel. In conjunction with the City University of New York’s Center for Advanced Study in Education, a video tape was made of the dismantling of two exhibitions at the Museum in an effort to provide new training materials for registrars.
The Museum offered a full complement of workshops, lectures, seminars, tours, and special classes on decorative arts and design taught by distinguished curators, designers, scholars, and design professionals. Attendance in the programs increased to 3500 students this year: Docents conducted 430 tours accommodating over 15,000 young people and adults. Free performing arts events presenting CETA artists were held in the Carnegie garden during good weather. A video film and slide show on the architecture and design of Los Angeles was also shown during the summer.
Over 200 donors contributed close to 4400 objects to the Museum’s collections this year. Outstanding gifts include four albums of drawings and prints by Ely Jacques Kahn, a length of seventeenth-century Persian velvet, twelve silk murals by Lydia BushBrown, and two Venetian blackamoors. In addition, the Museum was most fortunate to receive the first third of an extraordinary collection of over 4000 matchsafes dating from the early nineteenth century, and a Tiffany dragonfly lamp belonging to the Carnegie family, and a silver tea service formerly the property of Roswell Miller, Mr. Carnegie’s son-in-law. Perhaps the most celebrated gift of the year, however, was the elaborately embellished Beatles’ Rolls Royce, donated by John and Yoko Lennon.
Generous donations over the past year have enabled the Museum to plan for important additions to its current facilities. The Samuel H. Kress Foundation has provided for the installation of a Paper Conservation Laboratory which will be housed adjacent to the recently completed Textile Conservation Laboratory. A Textile Study Center is in the final stage of completion, thanks to the kindness of the Thomas Evans Foundation.
Other significant gifts were received from the Arthur Ross Foundation, the J.M. Kaplan Fund, the Ralph J. Weiler Foundation, DMC, and the Embroidery Council of America. The Urban Mass Transit Authority sponsored the travel of the “Subways” exhibition. Also the Museum again received considerable support from the New York State Council on the Arts and the New York Community Trust.
130 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 142>>>

The membership grew to 5500. A newsletter was launched to inform members of upcoming events, exhibitions, and programs, as well as of the development and history of the Museum. The annual benefit auction of specially donated objects successfully raised over $110,000 for exhibitions and educational programs. Museum Shop Sales increased considerably, and two items from the Collection were reproduced by American Heritage.
After forty years of service as caretaker of the Carnegie Mansion, starting when the Carnegies were still in residence there, Manuel Perez retired as Building Manager. Administrator John Dobkin moved on to become the Director of the National Academy of Design. Kurt Struver was appointed as Business Officer and Robin Parkinson was hired as Exhibits Designer.
Since its reopening, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum has been honored by every major professional society in the design field. Its activities have continued to receive critical acclaim and a strong public following.
Freer Gallery of Art
Several major appointments were made during the past year. In October 1977, Thomas Lawton was named Director, becoming the fifth person to hold that position since the Gallery opened in 1923. Lawton came to the Freer as Curator of Chinese Art in 1967 and was appointed Assistant Director in 1971. He served as Acting Director following the death of Dr. Harold P. Stern on April 3, 1977.
In July 1978, Richard Louie joined the Freer staff as Executive Assistant to the Director. Educated at Princeton University and at the University of Washington, Louie holds masters degrees in both economics and in Far Eastern Studies. He will oversee the Gallery’s administrative and financial programs and policies.
During 1978, the Gallery’s major exhibition entitled, ‘“Chinese, Japanese and Korean Ceramics,” presented approximately 350 objects from the Freer collection and spanned the period from the late neolithic to the end of the nineteenth century. Publication of a handsomely illustrated volume on ceramics in the Freer Gallery of
History and Art / 131

<<<Page: 143>>>

Art, part of the series entitled, Oriental Ceramics: The World's Great Collections, provided the original impetus for the exhibition. Dr. Harold P. Stern, the late Director of the Gallery, guided the initial planning. After his death, members of the Gallery’s curatorial staff continued the task of selecting the finest examples of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean ceramics in the collection and of preparing them for display.
Plans for future exhibitions continued during 1978. Dr. Esin Atil, Associate Curator of Islamic Art, completed research for a catalogue of those Iranian and Indian drawings to be included in “The Masters of the Brush,” scheduled to open on October 16, 1978. Following that exhibition, the Gallery will install a selection of Japanese lacquer in April 1979. The exhibition will be one of the activities being planned for the “Japan Today” program.
His Majesty The Emperor of Japan honored Dr. Harold P. Stern with a posthumous award of Japan’s Order of the Sacred Treasure, Third Grade. The Order was given in recognition of Stern’s many contributions to furthering the understanding of Japanese art and culture in the United States. The Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund has now received over $100,000 from over 90 contributors for the purpose of furthering Japanese art.
In July 1978, a comprehensive inventory of the collection was completed after two years with satisfactory results. Each piece in the collection was physically checked against a card catalogue file located in each storage area. The card file was checked for completeness against existing records. A total of 11,291 objects in the collection was inventoried.
The retirement of Raymond A. Schwartz, the Gallery’s chief photographer, on August 31, 1978, marked the end of thirty-eight years of distinguished government service. Schwartz came to the Freer in 1945, shortly after his discharge from the United States Army. Following several months as a guard, he began to assist the Gallery’s photographer. His extraordinary sensitivity to the subtleties of Oriental art objects earned Schwartz an international reputation as an art photographer. His dedication to the Gallery and his unassuming manner reflect the remarkable personal qualities that have guided him throughout his career.
Members of the Smithsonian Council, led by Dr. Gordon N. Ray, spent one morning at the Freer Gallery of Art during their
132 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 144>>>

Supervisory Photographer Raymond A. Schwartz retired on August 31, 1978, after thirty-three years of service at the Freer Gallery of Art.

<<<Page: 145>>>

latest meeting on May 12 to 14, 1978. After touring the exhibition galleries, conservation laboratories, and storage areas, the Council members discussed Gallery programs, policies, and problems with the Freer staff. In their report to Secretary Ripley, the Council stated, “It was clear that the Freer had no problem of so-called collection management. . . . Its control of the collection is close to perfection in its completeness and its availability to students and scholars, both here and in other museums. . . . The members of the Council were particularly impressed with the conservation and restoration program which is one of the finest in the country. ... The situation of the Freer is clearly excellent. It is a distinguished collection and one of the great museums of its kind in the world. A visit here refreshes the mind and spirit.”
Among other Gallery visitors of note were Her Royal Highness Princess Alia of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and Lee Kuan Yew, Prime Minister of Singapore.
Dr. Thomas Lawton accepted an invitation by the National Palace Museum in Taiwan, the Republic of China, to lecture and to study the collections. While in Taiwan as an official guest of the museum in June, Lawton held discussions with curators and other staff members. He also visited museums and colleagues in Japan and Singapore.
Lawton was appointed to serve on the Gallery Advisory Committee of the Asia House Gallery, New York; the Visiting Committee to the Department of Far Eastern Art of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; the Subcommittee on Museums of the United States-Japan Conference on Cultural and Educational Interchange (cutcon), New York; and on the Committee on Education of the Association of Art Museum Directors. For his work in promoting Equal Employment Opportunity, Lawton received the Smithsonian Institution Women’s Program Certificate of Appreciation.
The collection was increased during this fiscal year by forty-five objects.
The Freer Gallery sponsored the twenty-fifth annual series of “Illustrated Lectures on Oriental Art.’” One of the six lectures was sponsored jointly with the Embassy of Japan entitled, “The Reconstruction of Todaiji and the Styles of Kamakura Sculpture,” by Dr. Christine Guth Kanda of Princeton University. The Rutherford J. Gettens Memorial Lecture, ““Some New Thoughts on Old Chinese
134 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 146>>>

Bronzes,” was given by W. Thomas Chase of the Freer Gallery. Mr. Gettens was Head Conservator at the Freer from 1951 to 1974, and Mr. Chase is the present Head Conservator.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Now in its fourth year and firmly established as a major museum of contemporary art, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden continues to bring a diversified program of significant exhibitions, lectures, films, and symposia to the public. A balance of offerings treating the art of the recent past and that of the present has emerged as the pattern for the Museum’s exhibits program together with didactic offerings designed to enhance and extend the effectiveness of exhibitions.
More than a million visitors took advantage of these programs during 1978; for many it was their first encounter with contemporary art, for others it was a renewed acquaintance with works and artists previously seen and admired. Written comments from these visitors testify to the diverse and vigorous public reaction and the ability of the Museum to engender intense responses at either end of the critical scale. A singular manifestation of free expression in a free society, contemporary art leaves no one indifferent to its presence or significance when presented with boldness, eloquence, and style.
The Museum’s 1978 exhibits program began with a notable retrospective exhibition “Kenneth Noland” that presented the work of this American color field artist whose bold paintings, suffused with dazzling color contrasts, have earned him an international reputation and have had an undeniable influence on the younger generation of artists.
An exhibition dealing with more conceptual forms in contemporary art, ‘Probing the Earth: Contemporary Land Projects,” generated great interest among Museum visitors and its importance was signified by extensive coverage in the national and European press. The “Noland” and “Earth” exhibitions followed ‘Thomas Eakins,” a presentation of the Museum’s collection of paintings by this artist. The three shows provided a demonstration of the Mu-
History and Art / 135

<<<Page: 147>>>

seum’s varied exhibition schedule as well as a dramatic contrast of nineteenthand twentieth-century esthetics.
The “Gregory Gillespie” exhibition introduced the Museum’s visitors to a young American artist whose great pictorial power and skill aroused unusual viewer involvement. This was the artist’s first major museum exhibition and the press and critical reaction was exceptional.
The “Gillespie” exhibition was followed by “Europe in the Seventies: Aspects of Recent Art,” a display originating at the Art Institute of Chicago and presenting a lively view of avant-garde directions in current European art. Challenging and provocative, it reflected the philosophical and esthetic imperatives which have shaped much European art in the last decade.
Reaching back in time to an important but little known movement in the history of modern art that took root in Barcelona at the turn of the century and included the young Pablo Picasso, the Museum presented “Els Quatre Gats: Art in Barcelona Around 1900,” an exhibition prepared by Princeton University.
One of the Museum’s most ambitious exhibitions to date was presented during the summer months. “The Noble Buyer: John Quinn, Patron of the Avant-Garde” consisted of seventy-eight works identified as having been in the collection of John Quinn, one of the earliest and liveliest American collectors of paintings and sculpture during the early part of this century. Loans from museums and private owners around the world contributed to a visually exciting exhibition of great historic significance. The exhibition and its scholarly catalogue was the work of Judith Zilczer of the Department of Painting and Sculpture.
As a participant in the Smithsonian Institution’s presentation of a historical survey of Mexican art from the pre-Columbian era to the present, sponsored by the Armand Hammer Foundation, the Hirshhorn Museum displayed paintings, drawings and prints of. Mexico’s modern “Big Three” in an exhibition entitled, ‘“Orozco, Rivera, Siqueiros.” This display was comprised of works from the national museums of Mexico, many of them being shown in the United States for the first time.
During the late summer and fall of 1978, the Museum paid homage to the great British sculptor Henry Moore. In celebration of Moore’s eightieth birthday, the Museum showed for the first time
136 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 148>>>

On a visit to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden on November 15, 1977, Georgia O’Keeffe studies a work she created in 1945, Goat’s Horn with Red, now in the Hirshhorn’s permanent collection. Miss O’Keeffe was in Washington for a ninetieth birthday homage. Below. Gregory Gillespie’s Still Life with Squash and Rutebegas, 1975, (oil and magna on wood), is a recent acquisition of the Hirshhorn Museum. Gillespie, an American painter, was honored with a major oneman exhibition at the Hirshhorn this past winter.

<<<Page: 149>>>

The Hirshhorn Museum plaza was the scene of the dedication ceremony on July 19, 1978, of Isis, Mark di Suvero’s monumental sculpture, a gift from the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel. Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, left, accepts the Deed of Gift from Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary Ripley is seated behind
them; seated at the right is Noah Liff, President of the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel. Below. On July 11, 1978, Mrs. Joan Mondale visits Mark di Suvero at work on Isis in the Hirshhorn Museum plaza.

<<<Page: 150>>>

its total holdings of Moore sculpture, drawings, and prints, consisting of seventy-five items. As part of the Museum’s continuing program of displaying the diversity and depth of its collection in the form of small, selected one-person exhibitions, forty-three works by the American artist Philip Evergood were selected from the permanent collection by Kendall Taylor, a Smithsonian Institution fellow working at the Museum on her dissertation, which deals with Evergood’s work. Also from the Museum’s permanent collection came an exhibition of works by the German-American artist George Grosz.
Augmenting the Museum’s exhibits program was a series of lectures on various aspects of contemporary art and art history. Among the speakers were Edward Fry, Agnes Martin, James Wines, Jan van der Marck, Laurance Hubbert, Jacqueline Barnitz, Max Kozloff, Robert Rosenblum, Michael Blackwood, and Ivan Karp. An all-day seminar relating to the John Quinn exhibition was held in cooperation with the Smithsonian Associates. Speakers included Professor George Heard Hamilton, Anne d’Harnoncourt, Sidney Geist, and Professor B. L. Reid.
The Museum’s film program presented outstanding films on contemporary art and artists, as well as films created by contemporary film-makers. These included Walls of Fire, Wandering Wall, Isis, Paris 1900, Cubist Directions, and Gabriel.
The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden was invited to select the United States entry to the Belgrade International Exhibition held in conjunction with the international meeting ‘The Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe” attended by thirtythree nations. The paintings and sculpture of Willem deKooning were selected by the Museum as the United States entry, and their exhibition proved a great success. The works have also been shown in Bucharest, Warsaw, Vienna, and Berlin, under the auspices of the International Communication Agency.
The Museum continues the important task of building its permanent collection through gifts and purchases. The purpose of these acquisitions is to keep the collection contemporary so that it will continue to reflect current developments in painting and sculpture, and, wherever possible, build upon original strengths in the collection. During 1978, the Museum acquired eighty-four works of art.
Responding to requests from institutions throughout the United States and abroad, the Museum lent 101 individual items which
History and Art / 139

<<<Page: 151>>>

were seen by the public in cities as far apart as San Francisco, California; Durham, North Carolina; Grand Forks, North Dakota; and Phoenix, Arizona. A traveling exhibition, drawn from the Museum’s permanent collection, consisting of twenty-four sculptures and twenty-four drawings by major European and American sculptors of the past one-hundred years, continued its schedule of showings in South Carolina museums. It was also seen there during the “Spoleto Festival, U.S.A..” A tour of this exhibition during 19791980 is now being scheduled with the cooperation of the Smithsonian’s Traveling Exhibition Service.
The Museum continues to provide visitors with a variety of didactic material including wall labels, checklists, brochures, and handouts, the latter ranging from a single page to more ambitious illustrated mini-catalogues, all distributed free to the public. All major exhibitions were also accompanied by well-documented and illustrated catalogues that served the general public as well as students and scholars.
The highly successful “Hirshhorn Holiday,” originated in 1976 specifically for children, was repeated in 1977. This delightful fourhour program of music, clowns, mimes, and puppeteers was again made possible through the generosity and cooperation of the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates. The performance drew a crowd of 4500 adults and children.
Members of the staff continued to lecture at the Museum and at other institutions; to write for publication; to work with graduate and undergraduate museum interns and Smithsonian fellows; to respond to written inquiries and visits from scholars, students, and artists; and to carry forward the tasks of research and documentation.
An active docent program offered expert guidance to interested visitors with regard to the permanent collection as well as special exhibitions. An extension program designed to prepare school classes for their Museum visits began in September 1977 and has thus far included 2744 children.
Other departments of the Museum, concerned with the care and management of the collection and the mounting of exhibitions, continued to make important contributions.
The Office of the Registrar completed an ongoing inventory of the sculpture collection, and such inventory will be rotated yearly
140 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 152>>>

between the painting, sculpture, and print and drawing collections. It also continued its project of translating the Museum’s catalogue data onto machine-retrievable forms.
The Department of Exhibits and Design was responsible for the design, construction, and installation of eleven exhibitions, as well as for continuing changes in the installation of the permanent collection. A lead role in the redesign of the Sculpture Garden was played by the Department Chief Joseph Shannon who worked with Mr. Lester Collins, Landscape Architect, and Philip Reiss, Director of the Office of Facilities Planning and Engineering Services, in producing a design concept which was approved by the National Commission of Fine Arts and the National Capital Planning Commission. The reconstructed Sculpture Garden will provide wheelchair access to both levels of the Garden by means of special ramps, while more plantings and benches will be introduced for the greater comfort of visitors and the more effective display of the sculpture.
The Conservation Department continued to examine and treat works of art requiring minor conservation or serious restoration. An outstanding accomplishment during 1978 was the reconstruction of two monumental works of sculpture that had been severely damaged by a wind storm. The Nicolas Schoffer Spatiodynamique 17 which appeared to have been irreparably damaged was in fact completely restored, while the George Rickey Three Red Lines was reconstructed and its balancing mechanism improved by the artist in his upstate New York studio.
The Photography Department continued to add to its archives and record of the permanent collection as well as special exhibitions. The Department responded to numerous requests for photographs, slides, and color transparencies from students, scholars, and publishers.
An outstanding event in 1978 was the installation and dedication of a forty-two-foot-high sculpture by the American artist Mark di Suvero on the Museum’s Plaza, a gift to the American people from the Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel, Inc. A gala ceremony marked the sculpture’s unveiling and a large audience consisting of representatives from government, business, and the arts listened to remarks by Secretary Ripley; Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Chairman of the Hirshhorn Museum’s Board of Trustees; Mr. Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior; and Mr. di Suvero.
History and Art / 141

<<<Page: 153>>>

Joseph Henry Papers
Volume 3 of The Papers of Joseph Henry is in the hands of the Smithsonian Institution Press, with publication anticipated early in 1979. Covering Henry’s career in 1836 and 1837, the volume is dominated by the documentation of his eight-month European visit.
Considerable progress has been made in the research and editing for the following volume, spanning the years 1838 through 1840. Of paramount interest in volume 4 are the many entries from Henry’s laboratory notebook. This was a period of intense experimentation by Henry spurred by his acceptance as an equal by the leading members of the European scientific community. The surviving documentation of his scientific activity is extensive.
Concurrently with the editing of volume 4, the Henry Papers staff began work on a volume of Henry’s nontechnical writings spanning his professional career that consists primarily of addresses or articles describing the activities of the scientists for general audiences or interpreting the role of the scientist in American society. Annotations will be kept to a minimum. The resulting volume should be useful as a set of readings for courses in the history of American science, American intellectual history, and American social history.
The project continues to search respositories for further Henry documentation and to enter Henry manuscripts into the computer index. During the past fiscal year successful hunts were conducted in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the Peabody Museum of Archaeology, and the Hunt Botanical Library. The number of documents indexed surpassed the 43,000 mark.
In addition to its publication efforts, the Henry Papers project has functioned as a central scholarly resource for the history of science in the United States and as a model for historical editing projects. It supplies assistance for scholars working on such diverse topics as state geological surveys, the contributions of the Rogers brothers to science, and the work of Jacques Loeb. Fellows on both the graduate and undergraduate level used its facilities. Among the editorial projects which have consulted the Henry Papers during the past year were the John W. Dawson and Thomas A. Edison Papers. .
142 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 154>>>

Under the auspices of Nathan Reingold, the Nineteenth-Century Seminar continued to provide a forum for scholars both inside and outside the Smithsonian. The past year saw presentations on topics in the history of science, art history, and military history.
National Collection of Fine Arts
Ten years ago, on May 16, 1978, the National Collection of Fine Arts (NcFA) opened its galleries to the public in its new-old home —the Patent Office Building. To commemorate the occasion this year a major exhibition, “Past and Present,” was mounted to recall the collection’s long and sometimes troubled history—the earliest objects were collected at the beginning of the 1830s—and to illustrate the change in taste and function of art museums over the almost century and a half of the collection’s existence. More than four hundred objects were selected from the museum’s reserves— some had not been shown publicly for almost a century—and exhibited in settings suggestive of the ways they were first displayed. Some of the pieces must have felt particularly at home because they had been exhibited before in the Patent Office. But that was in the 1840s when that building housed Washington’s first national gallery.
In the past ten years the collection has almost doubled in size, the Renwick Gallery has been opened, and museum activities have greatly expanded. Innovative programs in public education; graduate research in American art; the building of comprehensive, retrievable archives necessary for intensive study; training museum personnel; and maintaining an extensive publications program are all now part of the ongoing activity. Through much of the period the museum not only produced an average of twenty-five exhibitions a year, mostly on previously unknown or little-studied material, but also rehabilitated a substantial portion of the longneglected collection. The ncra, with specialists working in many fields, has become a major center for the documentation, study, and appreciation of American art, past and present.
Among the notable accessions during this celebration year was a large, compellingly beautiful painting by Albert Bierstadt, the
History and Art / 143

<<<Page: 155>>>

bequest of Mrs. Helen Huntington Hull. Restored to its original luminous elegance by the Department of Conservation, it now serves as the focal point of the nineteenth-century landscape galleries. Added to the galleries as well are a fine view by Frederick Kensett bequeathed by Mrs. Hull, a meticulously painted early seascape by William Bradford, and a recently restored colorful landscape by the little known Samuel Lee, who painted in Cincinnati and New Orleans before 1841. The area devoted to Americans working in Italy during the nineteenth century was enriched by an 1849 landscape by Daniel Huntington and an evocative view of the Roman campagna by Thomas H. Hotchkiss, newly cleaned to reveal its astonishing range of color.
A great addition to the Lincoln Gallery is Rembrandt Peale’s monumental painting, The Roman Daughter, an acquisition made possible by the generosity of members of the James Smithson Society. Painted in 1811 and widely discussed at the time, it is considered a key work in the development of American art. On the approach to the Lincoln Gallery one now encounters a moody, thought-provoking sculpture by George Segal, The Curtain, a recent museum purchase. Close by is the arresting permanent installation of James Hampton’s glistening Throne of The Third Heaven of the Nation’s Millenium General Assembly, finally settled back at the museum after exhibition in Minneapolis, New York, Montgomery, and Boston.
Among the large group of works added to the collection of prints and drawings were several from the notable exhibition ‘““New Ways with Paper,” which called attention to recent concentration on the qualities and uses of paper, the paper often being made by the artist himself. One of the most popular exhibitions of the year was the superb group of color prints and pastels by Mary Cassatt, selected by Consultant Adelyn Breeskin for showing in the print and drawing galleries, a prelude to the republication of her authoritative long-out-of-print volumes on the artist. Another popular print and drawing exhibition was the presentation of the warmly human drawings and watercolors of Raphael Soyer which opened the season.
In October an exhibition of paintings by Charles Bird King, the first painter to settle permanently in Washington, known chiefly for his portraits of Indians from the 1820s, revealed a complex
144 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 156>>>

Albert Bierstadt’s Western Landscape, 1868, is a bequest of Mrs. Helen Huntington Hull to the National Collection of Fine Arts. Below. New installation at NCFA
of James Hampton’s Throne of the Third Heaven of the Nation’s Millenium General Assembly.

<<<Page: 157>>>

Gift of the Smithson Society, Rembrandt Peale’s The Roman Daughter, 1811, is now permanently hung in the Lincoln Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts.

<<<Page: 158>>>

artistic personality. The exhibition and accompanying book brought together for the first time the full range of King’s activity. Among the exhibitions to follow, was a restrospective, later shown at the Guggenheim Museum, of Attilio Salemme, a highly original artist who died in 1955. Continuing the policy of keeping in touch with art in various parts of the country, Curator of Education Peter Bermingham assembled an exhibition of contemporary art from Alaska which provided many surprises. In honor of Alice Pike Barney, whose Studio House is being restored by ncra, an exhibition was devoted to her paintings and the work of her turn-of-thecentury friends.
The Department of Exhibition and Design, in addition to rehanging many galleries following the huge, successful California show, installed some twenty-seven exhibitions, sixteen of which required major construction. Some of the most complex installations were for the Renwick’s twelve varied exhibitions. ““The Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd Wright” required the adaptation of a Victorian interior to the severe designs of Wright, and the great collection of ceramic ware by Maria Martinez and her family had to be mounted in an atmosphere sympathetic to the refined traditional Indian shapes. The elegant recent works in enamel by William Harper and the precisely designed silver and gold objects by Ronald Pearson made very different demands. One of the fascinating installations was for ‘Murals in the Round,” which showed off an extraordinary collection of miniature painted tipis of the Kiowa and Kiowa-Apache Indians, commissioned by the Smithsonian in the 1890s and never before shown as the works of art they are. John C. Ewers, Senior Ethnologist of the National Museum of Natural History, where the works have been stored, collaborated with the ncra staff to produce the exhibition and publication. Another collaborative exhibition was ‘“The Harmonious Craft: American Musical Instruments,” produced in association with the Division of Musical Instruments of the National Museum of History and Technology.
Fifteen visiting research fellows were in residence during the year, some supported by a generous grant from the Merrill Trust, which also provided much needed travel funds for the fellows. Fifteen interns, ranging from undergraduate to advanced graduate students studied museum procedures with the staff, and two stu-
History and Art / 147

<<<Page: 159>>>

FP me ATTHE Renwick. me ETHEL w. MOHAMED. 1173 —
A recent gift to the Renwick Gallery is Ethel Mohamed’s recollection in stitchery of the opening of an exhibition of her story-telling “stitch pictures” at the Renwick. Below. Maria Montoya Martinez, a Tewa Indian from the San Ildefonso Pueblo near Sante Fe, New Mexico, is internationally recognized as the foremost Native American potter. Now 96 years of age, Maria’s craft tradition is continued by her family. The exhibition which opened at the Renwick Gallery March 31, 1978, displayed pottery made by five generations of the Martinez family.

<<<Page: 160>>>

dent conservators worked in the Conservation Laboratory. All fellows gave public lectures on their research, and in May the museum sponsored a seminar with invited scholars to examine the concept, once so fondly maintained, that American culture at the end of the nineteenth century had a particular affinity with the Italian Renaissance. The major papers were later presented as a public program.
The question of what one looks for, and where one begins in a museum displaying a thousand works, was answered in part by the Department of Education’s cleverly devised and very popular “‘selftours” that helped children and families to explore for themselves various aspects of art in the galleries. ncFa’s notable docent tours which stimulate discussion and thoughtful looking among visitors also were available, and as heretofore drew much praise from nearly 17,000 participants. The Renwick Gallery was able to carry its craft demonstrations to local schools, and present performances, demonstrations, and lectures in the gallery. Cooperation of the schools also made possible a humanities program and teacher institutes, as well as the continuing activity in Discover Graphics. Junior interns (high-school students working with the education staff) made their lively contribution, and the annual May family celebration, Kaleidoscope Day, kept some 3500 young people busy exploring, creating, and enjoying art.
National Museum of History and Technology
After the intense activity surrounding the Bicentennial, the National Museum of History and Technology has entered a period of transition. The efforts of 1976, besides celebrating the nation’s birth, marked the close of the Museum’s first dozen years, a time in which the new Museum developed the characteristic blend of rigorous scholarship and exciting exhibits that earned it a reputation for innovation and flair. Now, in 1978, with this creative energy an established force, the Museum is entering a new phase of activity, directed toward systematic planning for the future and managing and improving its collections.
History and Art / 149

<<<Page: 161>>>

The credit for setting this process in motion belongs to former Director Brooke Hindle, who, before completing his term in June of this year, saw through the reorganization of the curatorial departments, thus providing a new structure on which the Museum can continue to build. While this internal change is still in progress, activities in the areas of exhibits, scholarship, and collections have continued strong.
The Museum opened two major exhibits during the year, “Atom Smashers: Fifty Years” and the ‘Hall of American Maritime Enterprise.” Both are products of several years of preparation and together they cover over 20,000 square feet of the first floor.
“Atom Smashers,” which opened on December 2, 1977, is the first exhibit in the country to assemble historic high energy particle accelerators—the machines used to explore the inner workings of the atom. It is also the museum’s first attempt to construct a major exhibit on a complex scientific subject. The historical development of particle accelerators is treated on a fairly high plane, although the exhibit may be successfully viewed on less demanding levels as well.
The visually intriguing machines on display represent landmarks in the scientific search for ever higher energies required to “smash” the atom’s core. The exhibit introduces E. O. Lawrence and his 27-inch cyclotron, which produced 6 million volts in the 1930s, and progresses to a walk-through partial reconstruction of Fermilab’s 4-mile proton synchrotron, at 500 billion volts the most powerful accelerator in the world.
The exhibit was planned by Dr. Paul Forman, Curator of Modern Physics. The Department of Energy provided major funding, and important contributions were made by accelerator laboratories across the country and abroad.
The “Hall of American Maritime Enterprise’ opened to the public on August 11, 1978. The largest exhibit produced by the Museum’s own design and production staff in many years, it is a historical introduction to the various aspects of two centuries of commercial shipping in America. At the heart of most exhibit units are the exquisite models of clipper ships, fishing craft, river steamboats, and ocean liners which form the National Watercraft
150 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 162>>>

Secretary Ripley introduces First Lady Rosalynn Carter in a ceremony celebrating the donation of her Inaugural Ball gown to the National Museum of History and Technology. The gown is now installed in The First Ladies’ Hall. Below. In NMuT’s
exhibit “Atom Smashers: Fifty Years” is a reconstructed section of the largest scientific instrument ever made. It is the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory’s proton synchrotron, a machine four miles long that was built to split the atom. It was completed in 1972. In the exhibit, life-size transparencies at each end of the tunnel section create the illusion of depth. (Photograph by Rick Fenner, Fermilab Photo Unit.)

<<<Page: 163>>>

— = ro a
eaten oe
NA es
SAS weet

<<<Page: 164>>>

A rare watercolor from the Thomas Cochran Dudley Collection in NMut’s Division of Naval History. Dudley was a Purser’s Assistant on Commodore Perry’s expedition to Japan in 1853-1854. His painting gives contemporary insight into shipboard customs in the pre-Civil War Navy. Note the interesting uniform detail and the careful record-keeping on the issuance of grog.
Facing page. In the “Hall of American Maritime Enterprise,” an exhibit presents various aspects of two centuries of commercial shipping in America. Shown above is a model of the transatlantic liner Philadelphia, built in 1891, which sailed with the American Line Fleet. Below. The display includes a full scale replica of a section of mast and rigging used in the 3-masted tobacco ship Brilliant, built in Hampton Roads, Virginia, in 1775.
ne .

<<<Page: 165>>>

This American common press (1810) is being demonstrated by volunteer Chris Pomeroy of the Georgetown Day School. Below. Volunteers from the Office of Horticulture decorated Christmas trees from many lands in a popular exhibition at NMHT. The Italian Tree of Lights (left) displays at its base the manger scene, the significant
Italian Christmas symbol that dates to Saint Francis of Assisi (12th-13th centuries). The decorations on the Japanese tree (right) are characteristic of other Japanese festivals as well as Christmas, which is observed by both the religious and nonreligious.

<<<Page: 166>>>

Collection. Other significant artifacts highlighting the hall are an operating Fresnel lens which greets the visitor, and a fully-outfitted whaleboat from one of America’s last square-rigged whaling ships. One can find the oldest surviving steam engine made in America (used by John Steven in 1804 to power his Little Juliane on the Hudson River), the entire engine room from a 1920s Coast Guard buoy tender, and mementos from great luxury liners such as the Leviathan and the United States. An important collection of scrimshaw is displayed near the exit, opposite a recreation of a tattoo parlor.
The exhibit was financed largely through donations from individuals and organizations associated with the maritime industry. Dr. Melvin Jackson, former Curator of Marine Transportation, was responsible for the original plans, while Dr. Robert C. Post, Project Manager, and Nadya Makovenyi, Designer, carried the project throtigh to completion.
Considerable activity was visible also in the Museum’s temporary exhibit areas. In the Dibner Library gallery, the exhibit “Focusing on America,” which featured rare hand-colored maps of the New World, was followed by “Aspects of Art and Science,” an attractive display of objects illustrating the continual collaboration between art and science that exists in many different cultures. The same gallery next featured an exhibit titled “Women in Science in Nineteenth Century America,” which focused on the many roles women played in areas such as astronomy, physics, and chemistry.
Another area devoted to rotating exhibits is the Hall of Printing and Graphic Arts. Replacing last year’s ““Pochoir” exhibit, ““Cut on Wood: The Art of Wood Engraving” opened in June. The exhibit was organized by Dr. Peter C. Marzio, the Museum’s Curator of Prints, who departed this year to take on the directorship of the Corcoran Gallery.
The Hall of Photography featured the second half of the exhibit “Photographing the Frontier,” comprised of nearly a hundred
photographs of life in frontier America. In a newly-created exhibit area at the entrance to the Hall of Everyday Life in the American Past, on the second floor, a traveling display presented the story of the Malaspina Expedition, one of the first scientific voyages along the American northwest coast. On the third floor, the exhibit “Loose the Mighty Power,” representing the growth of steam power in America, opened in late September.
History and Art / 155

<<<Page: 167>>>

Smaller temporary exhibits reflected a wide array of topics. One featured Adrian, a fashion designer of the 1940s, and another, the mathematician Gauss. John R. Gerwig’s collection of historic American handtools was displayed, as were ‘Tools to Test Psychic Phenomena.”
Research by the Museum’s staff resulted in the publication this year of sixteen books and separate publications and fifty-seven articles and scholarly papers.
The largest, without doubt, is The American Railroad Passenger Car, by John H. White, Jr., which brings to fruition ten years of research into one of American industry’s richest histories. In the 700 pages of this comprehensive work, White documents the range of styles and functions of passenger cars from the Hacker’s ““hogshead” car (an improvisation on the barrel) to the luxurious “City of Toledo,” with its frescoed ceilings, plush carpets, and ornate woodwork. Technological features of railroad cars are described and illustrated in detail, be they the workings of air brakes or flush toilets. Critics have described White’s book as “first of all a scholar’s work, but one written with warmth and wit... as full of fascinating details as an old railroad junkyard.”
Wheeled elegance at an easier pace is the subject of Don H. Berkebile’s Carriage Terminology: An Historical Dictionary. This work, which illustrates its definitions with over 500 scale drawings, catalogue plates, cuts and photographs of vehicles, parts and accessories, establishes for the first time a standard nomenclature and terminology for all carriage types of the Western World.
The first comprehensive history of modern coinages from 1450 to 1789 was published this year in Switzerland, with a French translation to come out later in the fall. In this volume, authors Vladimir and Elvira Clain-Stefanelli consider the increasing numbers of coins from the Renaissance to the French Revolution not only as measures of value, but as historical documents and expressions of technological development. A large amount of the Stefanellis’ research had to be directed toward establishing the weight and fineness of the metallic contents of the coins in order to demonstrate their place within the general monetary development of a country or a monetary system. This book concludes the monu-
156 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 168>>>

mental history of money undertaken with the cooperation of the numismatic centers in Oxford, Cambridge, London, and Munich.
In Neptune’s Gift—A History of Common Salt, Robert P. Multhauf details the history of man’s oldest raw material, and an unexpectedly essential ingredient of modern living. Multhauf describes society’s tremendous efforts to obtain and use this substance which has affected spheres of activity ranging from politics and trade to chemistry and geology. Lot’s wife and Taghaza, the Saharan city purported to have been built of salt bricks, share the pages of this history with technological discoveries and economic developments.
Other book-length publications by the Museum’s staff include The Common Press, by Curator Elizabeth Harris and Clinton Sisson of the University of Virginia, which for the first time provides detailed plans and descriptions of “the common press, using the Museum’s own Franklin Press as an example. Science in Culture: The Early Victorian Period, by Susan Faye Cannon, discusses the development and “professionalization” of science in the early nineteenth century; and Georg Scheutz and the First Printing Calculator, by Uta C. Merzbach, is one of the Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, describing the life and times of the early nineteenth-century publisher, who designed a machine to compute tabular differences and print the results.
Care and improvement of the collections was of major importance to the Museum this year. Attention was focused particularly on acquisitions, with Acting Director Otto Mayr’s decision to devote the Museum’s unrestricted trust funds to the purpose of acquiring important historical objects. Individual collections management projects were carried on throughout the Museum, and long-range planning in this area was a top priority.
Among the Museum’s acquisitions this year is the gown worn by First Lady Rosalynn Carter to the Inaugural Ball on January 20, 1977. A gift from Mrs. Carter, the gown, which she wore also at the ball celebrating her husband’s inauguration as Governor of Georgia in 1971, is of blue chiffon with a matching full length coat, gold shoes, and a gold leather purse.
History and Art / 157

<<<Page: 169>>>

The women’s history collection of the Division of Political History was strengthened by the acquisition of the symbolic torch that was run, in November 1977, from Seneca Falls, New York, to the National Women’s Conference in Houston, Texas, and by the Declaration of Interdependence issued by women at a Philadelphia re-enactment of the Centennial protest, in July 1976.
Two fine examples of United States leather mitre caps of the Revolutionary War period were purchased this year by the Division of Military History. One was used by the Newport Light Infantry, and the other is attributed to the 26th Massachusetts Regiment of the Continental Line. An exceptionally fine suit of English Pikeman Armor of the type used in America during the early seventeenth century was also acquired by the division.
The Chase Manhattan Bank’s Money Museum Collection, presented to the Museum in January of this year, represents one of the most significant additions to the numismatics collection ever received. The Chase Manhattan collection is particularly strong in primitive media of exchange, paper currencies, and historically significant checks, as well as in important single items previously not included in the Museum’s collections.
In May, the Museum was also fortunate to acquire by transfer the Treasury Department’s collection of United States paper currencies, encompassing the vast majority of United States paper money issued since 1861. The 808 pieces of the collection have a face value of $578,365.79, and form a needed balance to the Museum’s collections of United States coins.
The Division of Mechanisms, a new Museum unit concerned with timekeeping, kinematics, and automatic control has added two important acquisitions to its collection relating to cybernetics and automation. The first, a sixteenth-century automaton of a monk, powered by a key-wound, spring-driven clockwork, is one of only two automata of similar age and sophistication known to exist. Now on exhibit with a film showing him in motion, the monk was purportedly made for the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V by an Italian mechanician, Juanelo Turiano. The other acquisition, a modern descendant of such devices, is a one-armed, 3500-pound industrial robot programmed to perform a sequence of manufacturing operations. Built about 1960, it is one of the first generation of industrial robots ever made.
158 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 170>>>

The American College of Radiology’s donation of a comprehensive collection of radiological instruments has substantially enriched the Medical Sciences Division, making the Museum collection of such instruments the most complete in the country. Another highly important acquisition by this division was the first totally mechanical human heart to be successfully implanted in man. The historic operation was performed in 1969, by Dr. Denton A. Cooley at the Texas Heart Institute in Houston.
In the area of cultural history, acquisitions ranged from the original set furnishings of the television series All in the Family, and the Gerwig Collection of 1200 handtools, both acquired for the Division of Community Life, to the highly significant Remensnyder Collection of 155 brass and copper objects dating from the eighteenth and nineteenth century, the large majority of which bear maker’s marks. This addition to the collections of the Division of Domestic Life is a handsome complement to another acquisition by the division—forty pieces of scrimshaw depicting whale hunts, ships, harbor scenes, and portraits, some of which can be found on display in the Hall of American Maritime Enterprise.
This year, the sixth series in the Frank Nelson Doubleday Lectures was dedicated to ‘The Human Mind” and featured four leading authorities who have explored the nature and operation of the mind —Dr. Roger W. Sperry, Professor Marvin Minsky, Dr. J. B. Rhine, and Dr. Rollo May.
As the focus of a large variety of scholarly activities, the Museum has continued this year to host meetings and symposia, present lectures, and edit several important scholarly publications. In October 1977, the Society for the History of Technology, held its 20th annual meeting in the Museum, featuring four days of lectures and other intellectual exchanges. In March 1978, the Museum sponsored a three-day symposium on the rise of the American system of manufacture, at which papers were presented by leading scholars in the field, including Alfred D. Chandler of Harvard, the recipient later in the year of a Pulitzer Prize. This year also marked the end of Robert Multhauf’s third and final term as editor of ISIS, the journal of the History of Science Society. For fifteen years this publication, generally acknowledged as the most important in
History and Art / 159

<<<Page: 171>>>

Grover Cleveland, 1899, an oil-on-canvas painting by Anders Zorn, gift of the Reverend Thomas G. Cleveland to the National Portrait Gallery. Dimensions: 48 by 36 inches. Accession Number 77.229.

<<<Page: 172>>>

its field, has been edited at the Museum by Dr. Multhauf, assisted by Bernard Finn as Managing Editor.
Besides serving the scholarly community, the Museum has developed and maintained with the help of several hundred volunteers and docents countless other programs designed for the benefit of the 6 million people who visit the Museum each year. In October, the Division of Education and Visitor Information opened its third “hands on” area, the Rehabilitation Discovery Corner, featuring the prosthetic devices which aid the handicapped. The Museum has also continued its highly successful film and concert series, its holiday festivities, and other special efforts directed toward the general public.
National Portrait Gallery
The enactment of Public Law 94209 in February 1976, enabling the National Portrait Gallery to expand its collecting activities to include photography, resulted in the establishment at the Gallery of a Department of Photographs and the appointment of William F. Stapp, formerly on the staffs of the Philadelphia and Princeton museums, to head it. The first major exhibition in this field to be organized by the Gallery, and three of the most outstanding photographic acquisitions made during the past year, will be cited below.
Inaugurated this year was a “Self-Portrait’’” Lecture Series, the purpose of which is to invite individuals who have made significant contributions to American life in various fields to speak at the National Portrait Gallery. These talks are recorded and videotaped for preservation at the Gallery. Speakers in the first series were Harry Bridges, Lee Strasberg, Robert Moses, and Dr. Karl Menninger.
During the past year, the Gallery mounted ten exhibitions, plus special installations of selections from its print, drawing, and photograph collections. The largest of these exhibitions were “The TIME of Our Lives,” which consisted of original paintings, drawings, sculptures, and photographs of 100 individuals who had appeared on Time Magazine covers over the past two decades; and “Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreotypes,”
History and Art / 161

<<<Page: 173>>>

organized by Harold Francis Pfister of the Gallery’s staff, and accompanied by a full-scale catalogue by Mr. Pfister.
Among other exhibitions were ‘Instrument of the Lord,” about Harriet Beecher Stowe; “Perry in Japan,” which was organized around the original watercolors of the event by Peter Bernard William Heine (who accompanied Perry), lent anonymously; “Helen Keller and Anne Sullivan Macy,” which centered on the Gallery’s life masks of these two individuals by Onorio Ruotolo, along with material lent by the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf; ‘“William Cullen Bryant,” which marked the 100th anniversary of the poet’s death; “Jay Gould: Mephistopheles of Wall Street,” which featured furniture and objects from Gould’s home, Lyndhurst, a National Trust property; and “Adalbert Volck: Fifth Column Artist,” which dealt with the work of the most notable artist-illustrator of the Confederacy. These shows were prepared by Messrs. Frederick S. Voss and Michael L. Lawson of the Gallery’s staff.
“Portrait of a New England Town,” a remarkable series of murals depicting the inhabitants of Chatham on Cape Cod, done by Alice Stallknecht during the 1930s and 1940s, also was exhibited.
Two rooms, each given over to the work of an individual portraitist, were opened. One is devoted to ‘“The Sihouettes of Auguste Edouart,” and consists of a cross section of a group of 348 silhouettes Edouart did of Americans between 1839 and 1844, lent anonymously. A volume by Andrew Oliver, a member of the National Portrait Gallery Commission, which reproduced the entire collection together with biographical data on all the subjects, was published for the Gallery by the University Press of Virginia with a subvention from the Barra Foundation. The other room was occasioned by the gift from Dr. Maury Leibovitz of twenty-five Jo Davidson portrait sculptures (bringing the Gallery’s collection of this artist’s work to a total of forty-three), and displays a selection of these holdings. A catalogue was published to celebrate the opening of the Davidson Room.
During the past year the Gallery added 248 portraits (not including the Time collection, which will be discussed below), 192 by purchase and 56 by gift. A handsome and significant self-portrait by William Page, acquired by purchase, deserves special mention,
162 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 174>>>

as do three exceptional photographs from a large group of important images in that medium: daguerreotypes of Dorothea Dix and Jefferson Davis and a particularly striking platinum print of Thomas Eakins, probably by the artist’s wife, Susan Macdowell Eakins. These three individuals heretofore were not represented by life portraits in the Gallery’s permanent collection. Especially noteworthy among likenesses added by gift were the great Anders Zorn oil of President Grover Cleveland, presented by The Reverend Thomas G. Cleveland (together with its companion of Frances Folsom Cleveland donated by Mrs. Frances Payne) and a portrait of John Jacob Astor by John Wesley Jarvis, given by Susan Mary Alsop. Without this likeness, Astor might never have been represented in the Gallery in a fashion commensurate with his importance in American history. Among the twenty-five Jo Davidson sculptures presented by Dr. Maury Leibovitz, perhaps the most outstanding is the full-length terra cotta of Gertrude Stein. Another
Dorothea Lynde Dix, circa 1846, a daguerreotype by M. A. Root, was shown in the National Portrait Gallery’s exhibit “Facing the Light: Historic American
Portrait Daguerreotypes.” Dimensions: 14 by 10.7 centimeters. Accession Number 77.261.
History and Art / 163

<<<Page: 175>>>

Davidson which was added to the Gallery’s collection is a striking terra cotta head of Senator George Norris, the acquisition of which was made possible by Mr. and Mrs. James Louis Robertson and Mr. John P. Robertson.
When the entire collection of original works for Time Magazine covers has been received, it will number more than 900 items. Although not all of the original works from the period encompassed by this gift were kept by Time and hence are not available to the National Portrait Gallery, a very large number of significant individuals are represented. Worthy of special mention is the Pietro Annigoni portrait of John F. Kennedy, which is one of only three life portraits of the President. Among the noted artists whose paintings and sculptures are included in the collection are: Boris Artzybasheff, Ernest Hamlin Baker, Aaron Bohrod, Boris Chaliapin, Frank Gallo, Peter Hurd, Jacob Lawrence, David Levine, Roy Lichtenstein, Marisol, Alice Neel, Sidney Nolan, Robert Rauschenberg, Larry Rivers, and Jamie Wyeth.
The Catalog of American Portraits has commenced an eightyear national survey of public and private collections in states not already covered by previous fieldwork. This newly inaugurated survey has been assisted by a grant of $325,000 from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.
Office of American and Folklife Studies
The Office of American Studies continued its program in graduate education throughout the year. The fall 1977 semester in Material Aspects of American Civilization had as its theme “Communication of Knowledge by Exhibits, Festivals, and Symposia.” Taught by the Director of the Program and Professor Bernard Mergen, of The George Washington University, the course had thirty students.
Other seminars given during the academic year 1977-1978 included: “The American Decorative Arts in Historic Preservation,” taught by Barbara Carson; ‘“The Material Culture of Alexandria, Virginia: 1770-1830,” taught by Dennis O’Toole, Curator of Education of the National Portrait Gallery; ““Vernacular Architecture,” taught by Howard W. Marshall, Folklife Specialist of the Library
164 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 176>>>

Lee Strasberg, actor and teacher
of acting, the second speaker in the National Portrait Gallery’s “SelfPortrait’ Lecture Series, February 13, 1978.
Gertrude Stein, 1923, full-length terra cotta portrait sculpture by Jo Davidson, one of twenty-five David-
son sculptures presented to the National Portrait Gallery by Dr. Maury Leibovitz. Accession Number 78.195.

<<<Page: 177>>>

of Congress; “Introduction to Industrial Archaeology and Material Culture,” taught by Dr. Lawrence Lankton of the Historic American Engineering Survey; “Folklife in America” taught by members of the Office of American and Folklife Studies of the Smithsonian Institution; and “The Arts and Crafts Movement in Architecture and Design,” taught by Dr. Cynthia Field.
As the Smithsonian program that focuses and coordinates the Institution’s research in and presentation of contemporary folk cultures, the Folklife Unit completed its second year since it was established within the Office of American Studies under the direction of Ralph Rinzler. Consistent with its goals the Folklife Unit planned, researched, and presented the eleventh annual Festival of American Folklife, which included several folklife presentations within exhibits of the Museum of History and Technology and the Renwick Gallery.
The traditional outdoor component of the Festival was transformed from a twelve-week, Bicentennial production model to a six-day, museum-related event. Cooperative relationships with the Music Performance Trust Fund were carried over to the 1977 and 1978 Festivals. A two-year relationship was established with the Department of Energy. And, after a year’s hiatus, the National Park Service resumed its co-sponsorship of the Festival in 1978.
The Folklife Unit through the efforts of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education augmented its academic programs by direct involvement with District of Columbia public schools. Educational materials, including a pre-Festival printing of the Festival program book, were distributed to teachers at seminars designed to increase and to enrich District of Columbia area public school participation in Festival activities.
On a college level, members of the Folklife Unit staff taught a series of graduate and undergraduate courses for the Departments of American Studies and Anthropology at The George Washington University. ‘Introduction to Folklore” taught during several semesters by Smithsonian staff folklorists, John Santino and Steven Zeitlin, met with faculty praise and high student enrollment. “Folklife in the Modern World,” a graduate course which treated the involvement of governmental and other large institutions in areas of folklife, was organized and taught by the same folklorists. Both courses involved, as guest lecturers, scholars from the Smithsonian,
166 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 178>>>

Mrs. Katherine Geraci, a former teacher at the Dunham School, demonstrates her
teaching methods during the 1977 Festival of American Folklife in the Dunham School classroom in “Nation of Nations” exhibit in the National Museum of History and Technology. Below. Also at the Festival were Joseph Muchnick, Jacob Auerbach, Lucy Nigro, and Tom Wakin, recounting their Ellis Island experiences for audiences at the Nation of Nations program.

<<<Page: 179>>>

Reuben Oberholtzer, Henry Thomas, and Leander Hall unload wheat for the threshing demonstration at the energy exhibit at the 1977 Festival of American Folklife.
Below. Phipps Bourne, from Springvalley, Virginia, demonstrates the craft of the blacksmith, attracting many Festival visitors in spite of the rain.

<<<Page: 180>>>

Library of Congress, and the National Endowment for the Arts’ Folk Arts Program.
Another area of institutional cooperation is a folklore research and presentational project undertaken among several ethnic and regional groups in Nevada under the combined auspices of the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress, the Folk Arts Program at the National Endowment for the Arts, and the Smithsonian Folklife Unit.
Members of the Folklife Unit produced several studies, some of which developed directly from Festival-related research and some of which reflect long-standing research commitments. Among the former, two Ph.D. dissertations by Steven Zeitlin and John Santino were completed and accepted by the Department of Folklore and Folklife, University of Pennsylvania, in 1978, on the topics of family folklore and occupational narrative, respectively. Festivalgenerated research materials were at the center of a special issue of the scholarly journal, Western Folklore. Edited by Smithsonian’s Senior Folklorist, Dr. Robert Byington, and including contributions by Dr. Roger Abrahams of the Smithsonian’s Folklife Advisory Council, and Dr. Archie Green (a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson Center), as well as articles by staff and former staff members of the Unit, the special issue focused on occupational folklife, an area of research and presentation in which the Smithsonian has been preeminent since the Festival began its program ‘“Working Americans.”
Two films with accompanying monographs produced in 1978 in the Folklife unit record technological processes among two American folk groups and indicate the social and cultural matrix that surrounds them. The first film, entitled The Meaders Family, North Georgia Potters, documents the rapidly disappearing technical processes of traditional Appalachian stoneware pottery production. The second, entitled The Drummaker, records the ceremonial and technological steps in constructing a traditional Lac Court Oreilles Chippewa drum.
The Festival archive, consisting of 4166 reels of magnetic tapes recorded over ten years of Festivals, was catalogued and crossindexed.
In 1978, Dr. Robert Byington was obliged to retire because of ill health. He was replaced on the staff by Dr. Peter Seitel, who serves as the program’s Senior Folklorist.
History and Art / 169

<<<Page: 181>>>

From March 3-8, 1978, the Smithsonian’s Office of Horticulture presented two major exhibitions at The Flower Show, sponsored by the D. C. Branch of the Professional Grounds Management Society, featuring an award-winning Victorian parterre (shown above), based on designs taken from Henderson's Picturesque Gardens of 1906, and an educational exhibit on Victorian bedding designs.

<<<Page: 182>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
No ONE CAN DISPUTE the educational value of museums for contemporary society. We do not mean education in the traditional sense of the term, exemplified by the classroom, but rather education in its larger sense: providing to the alert and inquiring individual the stimulation to sharpen his knowledge and broaden his perceptions of the world around him by being exposed to the tactile reality of past accomplishments, be they natural or man-made. This is education independent of the strictures of time and which in the long run has, possibly, the most lasting social value.
The role of museums in providing the environment and the substance that makes this type of education possible cannot be overestimated. For within their halls they bring to the abstract notions of history, evolution, and art a three-dimensional reality. Were these functions alone the focus of a museum’s activity, not only would there be a major gap, but, without exaggeration, a betrayal of the heavier responsibility that the museum has to the future. For the museum, whatever be the focus of its collections, is to a great extent the custodian of the tactile “truth” of the past and, perhaps, its greatest responsibility is to develop methods to transmit this heritage not to the immediate, coming generation, but to a future extending indefinitely. Thus, the museum is both a today and a tomorrow organization and one of the major dilemmas of the museum administrator is to find a balance between these two responsibilities. This dilemma is particularly acute for a set of museums that are keepers of the nation’s national collections and, collectively, have the largest number of visitations in the world.

<<<Page: 183>>>

During the great efflorescence of activities that preceded the Bicentennial year, a large portion of the Smithsonian staff focused its efforts on meeting this contemporary need and opportunity. And though the essentials of conservation and collection management were by no means forgotten, the planning of new facilities, the developments of new technologies, and the sharpening of collections management processes, played a secondary role.
Over the past two years these aspects have received increasing attention on the part of those units of the Office of Museum Programs most directly concerned with them. The management of collections, and the development of methods which will assure their safekeeping while at the same time facilitating access to them for study, contemplation, or repair have been increasingly focused upon. A keystone to the success of this effort is the proposed Museum Support Center, now authorized by the Congress, which will be erected in Suitland, Maryland, starting in the latter part of 1980, and will be completed by the end of 1982. This facility, perhaps unique in the museum world, will provide, for the first time, an environment specifically designed for the compact storage and easy retrieval of a vast part of the research collections of the National Museum of Natural History. The facility will also provide an opportunity for the Institution to expand greatly its conservation effort and, in the process, share its knowledge more broadly with members of its own staff and with students in conservation, who will be taking courses and interning there.
The time is long past when any responsible museum manager can say, with any degree of assurance, that the collections in his care are stabilized. Objects are matter and matter has a life span. This span can be shortened or lengthened depending upon the conditions under which the objects are housed. It is now the first priority of the Institution to develop optimum environmental conditions for the objects in its custody.
Connected with this is the development of new inventory procedures, facilitated by advanced information technology and based upon the most careful consideration of scholarly, administrative, and legal needs. These aspects have also received major attention, particularly during the past twelve months. New methods have been initiated, which, combined with the Institution’s drive to prepare for the removal of major parts of its research collections to the new
172 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 184>>>

facility at Suitland, will have far ranging effects and, we trust, will provide models from which others faced with similar problems may benefit. Several registrarial committees were formed during the year to identify specific problems. One is attempting to quantify the conservation needs of the Institution’s collections. Another is seeking to identify collections of objects which might be located in noncollecting research bureaus and departments. A third will review existing policies and make recommendations for revisions or new approaches.
During the year, an analysis of the conservation programs of the Institution was initiated, with particular attention being given to the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, to the relationship of the Laboratory with the other laboratories of the Institution, and to the extension of training activities in the new Support Center. To develop greater pan-Institution conservation coordination, and to identify more readily the gaps in existing programs, the Conservation Council was reactivated. It includes representatives of all the conservation laboratories and of those curatorial departments which have conservation expertise.
Conservation and research in the nature of materials, their sources, and the methods used in their production and shaping are intimately related. Archaeometric studies which extend the grasp of curatorial analysis have been intensified through work at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory proper and in cooperation with colleagues, through the recent access to the equipment and staff of the National Bureau of Standards and the Brookhaven National Laboratory. Results of these cooperative programs have been rewarding and these programs will receive increased priority in the years ahead.
The rare book collections, which are integral to an understanding of major parts of the collections of the National Museum of Natural History, among others, are also being attended to with renewed vigor. An active program to identify those volumes in need of conservation has been undertaken and work has been progressing in a recently established laboratory especially devoted to this purpose.
Volumes and series from the latter part of the nineteenth century, published on unstable paper and whose existence can no longer be assured owing to their brittle condition, are being copied on microfilm or microfiche.
Museum Programs / 173

<<<Page: 185>>>

The flood of new publications and reports, and a scholarly community increasingly overwhelmed by the masses of new data and interpretations issued in this country and abroad, has required new or refined approaches to library management. During the year the Libraries have strengthened their Entry Data Processing (EDP) procedures, and, particularly, sought ways to minimize the impact of the forthcoming discontinuance of the Library of Congress catalogue.
Some years ago the Institution’s archival records—that is, those records pertaining to its own history, activities, and relationships with other research organizations—were, if not in a state of disarray, to a great extent unorganized and uninventoried. Over the past few years major headway has been made to gain intellectual access and control over this material, and plans have been developed so that each museum and major unit in the Institution has a clearly identified archival program. An outward manifestation of this effort has been the publication of the Guide to the Smithsonian Institution Archives, a major compendium that, for the first time, identifies the location of data important for an understanding of the history of the Institution, and of its role in the growth of scientific inquiry in this country.
Conservation, organization, and transmission are key words for the units mentioned above. They are also vital for the Office of Horticulture which, over the past few years, has introduced into the Institution the concept of horticulture as an art and historical form as opposed to being mere grounds management. The Institution’s greenhouses now shelter vast numbers of species, some on the endangered lists, such as certain varieties of orchids, which, in a parallel fashion to the Front Royal extension of the National Zoo, are being propagated to ensure their transmission to future generations.
The Office of Horticulture is also embarking on scholarly activities that will lead to publications particularly relating to developments in the Victorian era, a period that has been under intense study partly because of the creation of the Victorian Garden in the south quadrangle of the Smithsonian Institution Building and the development of the 1876 Exhibition in the Arts and Industries Building. |
174 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 186>>>

As in years past, the efforts of the Office of Exhibits Central (orc) have buttressed the exhibit programs of the separate design and production units of the Institution’s several museums. oc has continued to provide excellence in graphics. Its design and construction facilities have been major suppliers to the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites). The latter has continued to build upon the great following developed during the Bicentennial years. The exhibitions that were generated then are continuing to circulate and new ones, particularly from foreign countries, are being developed to further enrich the program. The groundwork is being laid for the eventual extension of sires abroad, a step that is indispensable if the Institution is to continue to receive, as it has in the past, contributions from foreign institutions. Reciprocity and cooperation are key elements for the flourishing of such programs and it is hoped, in time, that the Institution can play a role in supplying museums abroad with certain facets of America’s experience, whether historical, artistic, or scientific.
Services to the profession-at-large have not been ignored. The National Museum Act Program has further refined its guidelines, carefully studied its constituency, and striven to cooperate, as fully as possible, with other funding organizations and particularly the National Endowments, the National Science Foundation, and the newly formed Institute of Museum Services so that the resources of each could be used to best advantage. Professional enhancement, research in museum matters, conservation, and, particularly, training in the special skills of the conservator have been major priorities for the National Museum Act. Efforts will be made, as they have in the past, to avoid duplication and to provide prompt advice and funding to applicants.
The Office of Museum Programs has developed, on a regular basis, a series of workshops relating to various aspects of museum management. These are in constant demand and have been attended by museum professionals from every part of the country. A new program in the series has been developed specifically designed to meet the needs of Native American communities. The first of this series of seminars and workshops was held in Washington and consultations here and elsewhere are leading to the development of cooperative programs on or near tribal areas.
Museum Programs / 175

<<<Page: 187>>>

The Museum Reference Center, an integral part of the Smithsonian Institution’s Libraries, has been reorganized and expanded and now provides the most comprehensive source of information on museum matters available in one location. The Reference Center is used by the Smithsonian staff and by persons from all parts of the country who seek information on various aspects relating to the history and management of museums.
In one way or another the major part of the activities of the Office of Museum Programs is dedicated to furthering the wellbeing of the Institution’s collections, communicating up-to-date information to the Institution’s staff, and to the profession-at-large on museum procedures and policies, and to fostering the concept of museums as vital repositories and as essential foci for learning.
The responsibility of museums today is greater than it was in the past: now, society relies on them to ensure the safekeeping of a heritage which belongs to the nation but which is also part of humankind’s patrimony. Transcending national boundaries and ethnic groupings, the resources of museums here and elsewhere are a trust held for the increased diffusion of knowledge for the benefit of the generations to come. The units of the Office of Museum Programs are dedicated to transmitting this heritage in the finest possible physical condition and with the scholarly apparatus that will expand to the utmost its contributions to human understanding and enjoyment.
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (cat) is a highly centralized organization offering a variety of services to the museums of the Institution in carrying out fundamental research on the property of materials and the manner in which these were constituted and formed. cat offers guidance to other laboratories of the Institution on specialized subjects, provides information and training in basic principles of conservation to the various staffs of the Institution, and assists the general public through the issuance of guidelines and bibliographies. cat also monitors and advises on environmental controls and assists the Institution’s various museums in the preparation of materials for special exhibitions here or elsewhere.
176 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 188>>>

Activities of the Conservation and Analytical Laboratory are highly technical and diverse. Above. Walter Angst carves a replacement for a piece of frame; a museum object is always repaired in ways that are clearly recognizable in contrast to repairs on antiques to be sold, where replacements are usually hidden. Left. Joan Mishara positions an Etruscan ewer and the x-ray radiographic unit in order to assure a well resolved image, Below. The equipment for gamma ray spectrum analysis is employed in studies of the provenience of ceramics, glasses, and obsidian artifacts.
merece etre cose cece crce toca |@en Geaw ADLINGLARALE -;

<<<Page: 189>>>

The Laboratory’s conservation staff devoted a major part of its efforts this year to the preparation of objects for the opening of the Hall of American Maritime Enterprise. Services included fumigation of nearly all of the organic materials acquired for the exhibition, examination, analysis, treatment, and advice on handling a wide variety of objects ranging from a Chinese lantern to sailors’ furnishings, colored illustrations, and a rare collection of scrimshaw. As in the past, the laboratory assisted neighboring institutions, and, in particular, Gallaudet College, in the preparation of an exhibition of early plastic hearing aids.
Among the more exacting tasks undertaken by the Laboratory was the examination, reconstruction, and treatment of an arm chair from President Madison’s bedroom. While some of these tasks reguired over two hundred and fifty hours of work, a substantial amount of staff time was devoted to advising curators, curatorial technicians and specialists, exhibits designers, registrars, collection managers, and building managers on various conservation problems. Over one hundred sessions of this kind were recorded during the year. Work was also done on Roman, Byzantine, and Islamic artifacts excavated by the Smithsonian’s archeological expedition at Tell Jemmeh, Israel.
A variety of highly specialized analytical services were provided by the scientific staff. X-ray radiography, microscopy, and spectrophotometry were among the several techniques used. Among the objects radiographed were a bull mummy from the Department of Anthropology, and a collection of ancient bronze artifacts, mostly Etruscan and Roman but also Late Swiss Dweller, Trojan, and Egyptian. A number of seventeenthand nineteenth-century instruments from the Division of Musical Instruments also were examined. Metalographic investigations involved the failure analysis of an early zinc-aluminum casting from the steering box of a 1903 Winton automobile which had cracked extensively. Grain boundary melting and stress corrosion cracking were present and gave evidence of the reason why this alloy, so convenient to cast in difficult shapes, never attained commercial importance.
Infrared spectrophotometry was also frequently used in the identification of materials which may come in contact with objects found in storage or on exhibition. These studies were made to
178 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 190>>>

assess the suitability and safety of these materials, and their potential negative impact on these objects.
During the year 4870 continually revised Conservation Guidelines embracing all areas of conservation were distributed in response to questions of the general public.
National Museum Act Program
The Smithsonian Institution has for many years initiated and supported service programs responsive to museum needs and the National Museum Act of 1966 reaffirms the Institution’s traditional role of assisting other museums. The Act directs the Institution to cooperate with museums and their professional organizations in a ‘continuing study of museum problems and opportunities both in the United States and abroad; to prepare and carry out programs for training career employees in museum practices; to prepare significant museum publications; to perform research on museum techniques; and to cooperate with departments and agencies of the Government concerned with museums. Within these objectives, emphasis is given to projects dealing with museum conservation: the study of conservation problems, research leading to new or improved conservation techniques, and training of museum conservators.
Funds appropriated to the Smithsonian for the implementation of the National Museum Act are made available primarily by grants and contracts to museums, nonprofit museum-related organizations and associations, academic institutions, and individuals employed or sponsored by an eligible organization. Each year, guidelines describing the specific grant program offerings and application requirements are distributed widely to the museum community and institutions having an interest in the objectives of the National Museum Act.
Applications for support are reviewed and evaluated by an Advisory Council composed of museum professionals who represent a cross section of museum interests and disciplines as well as various regions of the United States. Members of the Advisory Council are
Museum Programs / 179

<<<Page: 191>>>

appointed to three-year terms by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. In addition to its review and evaluation of applications, the Council assists with the determination of policies governing the grant program and with the establishment of standards which applicants must meet. The Council requires that projects supported by the National Museum Act must be of substantial value to the museum profession as a whole, and must contribute to the improvement of museum methods and practices, or to the professional growth of individuals entering or working in the museum field. A list of the members of the Advisory Council in 1978 is given in Appendix 1.
In 1978 the National Museum Act received an appropriation of $789,700. During the year, 178 applications requesting more than $2,600,000 were received and reviewed. The Advisory Council recommended funding for 78 grants totaling $720,185. Of this amount, $338,751 was directed to conservation training and research activities.
Many of the 1978 grant awards supported the training of individuals preparing for professional museum careers and provided continuing education opportunities for museum personnel. In keeping with the special emphasis placed on conservation more than one-third of the grants awarded were to assist individuals to obtain training in the conservation of textiles, ethnographic and archeological materials, contemporary paintings, and other conservation specialties. A seminar offered intensive training to museum conservators on the use of the polarizing microscope. Training in various other museum functions, including exhibition, administration, education, and curation, was also supported. One individual arranged to study sample preparation techniques and curatorial procedures at the Palynological Laboratory at the National Museum of Natural History.
Among the research projects supported by the National Museum Act this year was one which investigated the separation and spectrophotometric identification of organic pigments used in works of art. Projects of this nature contribute to the establishment of data bases essential to the development of new techniques for use in museum conservation.
Other needs of the museum field are served through National Museum Act support of the Consultant Service Program offered by
180 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 192>>>

the American Association for State and Local History and the Legal Information Program developed by the Association of Systematics Collections. The latter provides the museum community with information on wildlife laws at the state, national, and international levels pertaining to the acquisition, transport, and maintenance of biological specimens. A complete list of the projects supported this year by the National Museum Act is included in Appendix 3.
Although many of the projects have provisions for publishing and distributing the results of project activities, the National Museum Act maintains copies of all project reports in the Museum Reference Center of the Office of Museum Programs, where they are available for study and reference.
To coordinate efforts and to meet insofar as possible the increasingly complex needs of museums and museum professionals, the National Museum Act has continued to consult regularly with government agencies and professional associations having an interest in museums and their responsibilities. In January 1978, the chairman of the National Museum Act Advisory Council joined with representatives of the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Institute of Museum Services, and the National Science Foundation in hearings before the House Sub-Committee on Interior and Related Agencies to discuss the areas served by the various museum funding programs. The National Museum Act has also participated actively in the renewed functions of the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities.
Office of Exhibits Central
The tempo changed somewhat in fiscal year 1978 in the Office of Exhibits Central (o&c), with several projects being more comprehensive in the amount and type of participation. The result was more staff effort on fewer specific job listings—the variety and unique nature of orc work, however, continues in the tradition of the museum profession.
At North Capitol Street, improvements in shop operations and safety provisions were carried out, new portable and stationary equipment has been acquired on a very selective basis and modifi-
Museum Programs / 181

<<<Page: 193>>>

cations of existing techniques, notably, silk-screening, are still in progress. Planning has been completed for much needed changes in security and ventilation under the guidance of the Support Activities units and implementation is now being scheduled. otc staff has continued to serve as faculty for the Museum Workshops program of the Office of Museum Programs, the Museum Studies Program of George Washington University, and for several intern and individual training programs. Staff has also lectured, consulted, and advised other museums and other government agencies using exhibitions in their communication programs.
This year orc congratulated Roy LaRoche on his retirement after eighteen years at the Institution and regretfully acknowledged the disability retirement of Sylvan Sean, a Smithsonian modelmaker for twenty-three years. Also, the Office of Exhibits Central shares in the great sense of loss at the death of world-famous Architect/Designer Charles Eames. Mr. Eames was instrumental in establishing the Motion Picture Unit at the Smithsonian Institution and was a continual source of inspiration and encouragement to us, personally and professionally.
The Exhibits Motion Picture Unit, for the second time, was awarded Emmys by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. Celebrating a Century, completed for the National Musum of History and Technology (NMuT) in 1976, was made eligible for the awards after being shown on nationwide television in 1977. The film award was in the Independent Documentary Programs category. Individual awards went to Karen Loveland, orc (producer/director), Benjamin Lawless, NMuHT (scriptwriter), and John Hiller, orc (cinematography). Four Emmys! A cine Golden Eagle was also awarded for the film Tiger, produced for the National Zoological Park, and several films from the Film Unit’s library were chosen for overseas screening by the International Communication Agency. Other productions completed this year included three films for the exhibition “Origins and Traditions of Western Civilization,” at the National Museum of Natural History, a film on “Automation,” a television spot, and two films for the Hall of American Maritime Enterprise (NMHT).
The “Maritime” exhibition also provided the most comprehensive editorial and typographic project of the year for the Exhibits
182 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 194>>>

The late Charles Eames, appearing in the Smithsonian film Celebrating A Century, which was directed and produced by the Exhibits Motion Picture Unit, Office of Exhibits Central. Produced as part of the NMHT bicentennial exhibition “1876,” Celebrating A Century won four Emmy awards after being televised in 1977. Mr. Eames was instrumental in establishing the Film Unit at the Smithsonian Institution. During one of his business trips to Washington, he donned a costume for a “walk on” appearance in the film, as did hundreds of Smithsonian employees.

<<<Page: 195>>>

Editors Office. A major portion of this formidable task was handled personally by Constance Minkin, Chief of the Office. The acquisition of a Quadritek cold-typesetting machine by the Exhibits Editors Office made considerable impact on orc editing and graphic production operations. Savings of about 50 percent in time and dollar cost are being realized by this direct, in-house method of producing exhibition labels; use of this method has been particularly successful on projects for the Associates and for several of the larger Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites) exhibitions, such as “Judaean Antiquities’ and ‘Exhibition Flight.” Many projects required original writing—the translation of researched information into exhibition language—as well as editing. These include the program book for the Folklife Festival with the Folklife Unit; “Know What You See,” “Frederic Church,” “Buildings Reborn,” “America’s Architectural Heritage,” and others for sites; and exhibitions, travel brochures, and program announcements for various programs of the Smithsonian Associates. A final editing of Freeze-Drying Biological Specimens—A Laboratory Manual by Rolland Hower, who is director of the orc FreezeDrying Unit, topped off the year. The book is scheduled for publication by the Smithsonian Institution Press early in 1979.
A small forest is growing in the shops of orc Models, Plastics and Restoration Unit at the Smithsonian Institution Service Center. This and other model work will be part of the exhibition “Dynamics of Evolution” at the NMNnu. Over 63,000 cockroaches (B. germanica) have been prepared by the Freeze-Dry Taxidermy Unit for the same exhibition as have most of the 550 specimens freezedried this year. The Exhibits Motion Picture Unit is also working on two films for this exhibition.
“Scientific Illustration,” an exhibition done for and with sites is another example of the comprehensive involvement of oEc in several projects this year. Conceived and coordinated by sites, this exhibition was written, edited, designed, produced, and created by orc in close cooperation with the nmNnu, the Smithsonian Institution Archives, and the Washington Chapter of the Society of Scientific Illustrators. A memorial exhibition “Spencer Fullerton Baird” was a similar project carried out with the Smithsonian Institution Archives for the Office of the Secretary. The exhibition opened in
184 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 196>>>

the Great Hall at the ceremonies dedicating the Leonard Baskin statue of the second Secretary of the Institution, located in the Victorian Garden. ““The Wilkes Expedition” for the National Associates Programs was done with the cooperation of the NMNH and shipped for inclusion in the Smithsonian Week program in Hawaii. OEC participation in these programs is expanding. “Exhibition Flight,” produced with the cooperation of the National Air and Space Museum, and based on its hall of the same name, may be the largest, most comprehensive sites exhibit produced completely in-house by oEc.
Projects unique to okc’s resources and capabilities included a demonstration of the four colors of “white” light for the exhibition “Know What You See,” custom casework for Zoolab’s demonstration/education exhibits and the sculpting and casting of the mannequin for First Lady Rosalynn Carter’s inaugural gown. Of some 260 requests, preliminary data indicate that 137 projects of all types were completed this year. The balance are in process or are being scheduled. otc anticipates continued participation in and assistance to all Smithsonian units in a great variety of the Institution’s activities.
Over the years, the internal units of orc, each representing different media skills within the overall use of the exhibit as a communication tool, have developed in responsiveness and adaptability. The units coordinate smoothly with each other to the benefit of the Smithsonian offices utilizing their resources. The level of participation ranges from initial progam and concept planning to the individual practice of specific skills on a single component of larger projects produced outside oEc.
Office of Horticulture
During 1978, the Office of Horticulture continued its program to develop the surrounds of Smithsonian buildings as horticultural display areas and to enhance the Institution’s environment through the installation of flower beds and borders, interior plantings, and floral arrangements for special events. The staff, however, was
Museum Programs / 185

<<<Page: 197>>>

called upon to expend an increased amount of time and effort on educational, scientific, and research projects, and on public programs of lectures, demonstrations, and workshops.
In December 1977, the Office opened its first cooperative exhibition with the National Museum of History and Technology, “The Trees of Christmas,” based on the book of the same title by Mrs. Edna Metcalf. The exhibition featured decorated trees, eight to twelve feet high, representative of the distinct ethnic cultures of Japan, Brazil, Denmark, the Ukraine, Russia, Italy, and France, as well as American trees of several historical periods. Most of the decorations were handmade by volunteers, whose contributions enlivened this presentation of holiday traditions.
Two major exhibitions were presented at the annual Flower Show sponsored by the District of Columbia Branch of the Professional Grounds Management Society. One, the feature entrance display depicting a formal Victorian parterre fashioned of a rich assortment of plants and garden accessories, received ““The Grand Award” as the best special and best color-coordinated exhibit in the show. The second exhibit offered enlarged black and white photographs of bedding designs of the nineteenth century, and color photos of similar designs being recreated at the Smithsonian and in other municipal parks and botanical gardens in the United States and Great Britain.
The Victorian bedding design used for the Flower Show exhibition was recreated on the southeast lawn of the National Museum of History and Technology to renovate an unsightly area that had been overused by the public. An identical parterre will be installed at the southwest corner of the Museum in 1979. The area surrounding the Joseph Henry statue in front of the Smithsonian Institution Building on the Mall was made more attractive with the installation of a formal hedge of golden privet and a floral bedding design of the Smithsonian Institution logo, the sunburst.
Three new floral beds containing roses, spring and summer annuals, and perennials were developed in the Victorian Garden to the south of the Smithsonian Institution Building. Four magnificent Victorian cast-iron urns by J. L. Mott and Company were arranged near the statue of Spencer Fullerton Baird and planted with plants typical of the nineteenth century.
At the Greenhouse-Nursery Complex at the U.S. Soldiers’ and
186 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 198>>>

In late April 1978, the Office of Horticulture recreated a Victorian bedding design from Henderson’s Picturesque Gardens of 1906 on the southeast lawn of the National Museum of History and Technology. (Design is shown below.) An identical parterre for the southwest corner of the Museum will be installed in 1979.

<<<Page: 199>>>

Airmen’s Home, construction of a 2500-square-foot greenhouse for the storage and production of cool weather crops was completed. The orchid collection, started in 1976, began to expand rapidly in 1978 after an orchid specialist was employed to propagate and manicure a growing collection of members of the orchidaceae. By the end of September 1978, the collection included 1824 plants, 115 genera, and 4868 seedlings. Plans are now being formulated to increase the collection by 2500-3000 new species, with special attention to endangered species. The orchid collection is used on a regular basis in the various educational, research, and exhibition programs of the Office. During the year, the GreenhouseNursery Complex was responsible for the propagation and production of 115,511 annual bedding plants, 8786 cut flowers, 3393 seasonal plants, such as poinsettias, chrysanthemums, and Easter lillies, and maintained 350 tropical plants for use in conjunction with such special exhibitions as the “Treasures of Mexico,” shown at the National Museum of Natural History in April. In addition, the Grounds Management Division installed 175,000 spring bulbs and large numbers of fall cabbage, kale, and chrysanthemums on Smithsonian grounds.
Grounds management and maintenance operations were improved in 1978 with the assignment of a central horticultural storage and maintenance facility at Suitland, Maryland. The Education Division of the Office continued to develop its library holdings, especially the rare book collection on the Victorian era, and its slide collection; assistance was provided by an intern from Cornell University and a Hispanic student from the Office of Equal Opportunity. The Education Division also supervises the Volunteer Program, which contributed more than 2000 hours of service to the Office in 1978.
A monthly column entitled “Flora Smithiantha” has been prepared each month for The Torch to inform Smithsonian staff of current horticultural projects and to provide practical hints on gardening.
In cooperation with the Selected Studies Program of the National Associates, the Office conducted a seminar on “Practical Horticulture: Eighteenth to Twentieth Century.” The seminar was attended by thirty professionals from across the United States and was the first attempt to feature tours and lectures on the practical mainte-
188 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 200>>>

nance of historic gardens in the greater Washington area and on the development of Victorian landscapes and conservatories.
Several new major landscape and improvement projects, which have long been in the planning stages, were reviewed and approved by the Fine Arts Commission and the National Capitol Planning Commission during 1978. These include the installation of the magnificent Victorian cast-iron bandstand at the National Museum of History and Technology, the recreation of the Renwick Gates south of the Victorian Garden and the Smithsonian Institution Building, the Mini-Garden for the Visually Handicapped, and the East Garden at the East Entrance of the Smithsonian Institution Building on Jefferson Drive.
Office of International Activities
The Office of International Activities, which fosters and coordinates international aspects of Smithsonian research and cultural exchange programs, was transferred from the jurisdiction of the Assistant Secretary for Science to that of the Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs in 1978.
The Office serves the Institution’s interests abroad through continuing liaison with United States and foreign governments, with private institutions, and with international organizations. During the year, particular attention was devoted to developing cooperation with the new United States International Communication Agency (ica). 1cA brings together for the first time the overseas cultural and information programs of the former United States Information Agency and the education and cultural exchange activities previously conducted by the Department of State. The Agency may provide new opportunities for support of Smithsonian international activities as it seeks to strengthen programs of institutions in the private sector engaged in cross-cultural communications.
Initial cooperation with 1ca entailed Smthsonian briefings on museums in general, and the Smithsonian in particular, as an integral part of 1ca’s Junior Officer Training Program as well as its orientation program for cultural officers being assigned abroad. The briefings are intended to foster exchanges among United States
Museum Programs / 189

<<<Page: 201>>>

and foreign museums and to ensure the fullest possible official support for development of the apolitical cross-cultural educational potential of museums. In support of this objective, 1ca also agreed to add Smithsonian museum training workshops to its programs for visitors from foreign museums.
During 1978, the Office watched improving relations between the People’s Republic of China and the United States for opportunities for Smithsonian researchers to renew ties with Mainland China. Long cut off from scientific contact with the United States, the People’s Republic of China is an area of great interest to natural and cultural historians of the Smithsonian. Because of the recent stress on collaboration with the United States in science and technology by the People’s Republic of China, the Office prepared an illustrative list of Smithsonian staff interests for collaboration with China which the Secretary sent to the President of the Academy of Sciences in Peking. The list was carried to Peking in May by the zoo and museum professional group sponsored by the National Zoo. The Office arranged for briefings and background material on China, which were provided by the United States Committee on Scholarly Communications with the People’s Republic of China for the National Zoo group, and for a group of Smithsonian National Associates Board Members. The Office also coordinated visits to the Institution by five groups from China, ranging professionally from heads of universities to an opera company. .
Other examples of Office of International Activities services included obtaining and maintaining, through State Department channels, the logistical support provided by the American Embassy in Manila for the marine research program of the Smithsonian’s Oceanographic Sorting Center. Silliman University and the Fisheries Research Division of the Department of Natural Resources of the Philippines are host institutions. The Office also established with six American embassies procedures for the shipment of live insects to the Insect Zoo of the NMNH.
During the year, the Office processed visa applications for Smithsonian scholars traveling abroad and scholars from other institutions operating under Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program grants. The office assisted a number of foreign nationals collaborating in work at the Institution in meeting residence and other legal requirements.
190 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 202>>>

Finally, the Office arranged Smithsonian visit programs for more than 200 foreign officials from 61 nations traveling under United States Government or international organization auspices. The Office’s special concern is to see that foreign officials or scholars who can assist Smithsonian programs are put in touch with appropriate Smithsonian staff, and assisted, as required, for the success of their journeys.
Office of Museum Programs
The Office of Museum Programs organizes and conducts a group of distinct but closely related activities for the professional enhancement of museum personnel throughout the United States and abroad and investigates methods that will improve the effectiveness of museum operations.
The Office offers museum training workshops, arranges for internships, produces and distributes audiovisual presentations on conservation theory and practice, undertakes psychology-based studies to evaluate museum exhibits and educational programs, provides training and consulting services for Native American museums, offers counseling services on museum careers and training, and maintains a reference center of books, periodicals, research papers, and documents on museums and their operations.
Grouping these functions into one program entity permits coordination of diverse and extensive Smithsonian resources and facilitates the efforts of the Institution to respond effectively and directly to the many requests received from museums for assistance and guidance. It has the added benefit of keeping the Institution aware of museological developments elsewhere.
The Workshop Series presented 30 training sessions in 1978 which were attended by 567 museum professionals. All workshops were filled to capacity and most were oversubscribed. Participants, representing all types of museums and a wide range of disciplines, came from most of the states within the continental United States as well as Alaska and Hawaii. Professionals from Australia, France, Hungary, Iran, Kenya, South Africa, and Sweden also attended.
Selection of subject matter for the year-long program was guided
Museum Programs / 191

<<<Page: 203>>>

by surveys taken to ascertain the most urgent needs of the museum profession for new or additional information. Topics this year included traveling exhibitions, museum methods and practices, exhibit preparation, educational programming, registration methods, museum shop management, docent training, grant solicitation, collection management and maintenance, evaluation, membership development, museum budgeting and accounting, and interpretation. Faculty for the workshops was drawn largely from the Smithsonian staff, supplemented upon occasion by outside experts.
In addition, the Office of Museum Programs offered a series of specialized ‘‘refresher’” workshops for Smithsonian staff on museum lighting, label writing and editing, information management and automation, and conservation awareness.
During the year, nonsubsidized internship programs were arranged for thirty-eight students and museum professionals who were sent to the Smithsonian by their museums, universities, or foreign governments for longer periods of training in one or another of the Institution’s museum departments. Each internship was specially structured to meet the needs and goals of the individual. The Office of Museum Programs staff works closely with other units of the Institution to arrange the most beneficial program for each intern, and, when appropriate, makes similar arrangements with other museums throughout the country for interns to continue their studies there. Occasionally, an internship assignment may cover a period of two years, but the average lasts from three to fourth months, and most programs include involvement in research, collections management, museum education, cataloguing, and exhibit preparation.
The Native American Training Program advanced from its initial planning phase into an active training and consulting service. As the program became better known, Indian and Eskimo groups and individuals contacted the office in increasing numbers for information regarding the program and to arrange for instruction on the care and exhibition of their ethnographic and esthetic collections.
In this first full year of operation, the program offered training to some thirty Native Americans, furnished on-site assistance to eleven Native American groups in New York, South Dakota, Arizona, and New Mexico; conducted a weeklong workshop at the Smithsonian for the nine staff members of the Cherokee Indian Museum of North Carolina; assisted the Comanche Cultural Cen-
192 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 204>>>

fghanisiau, Maal
Trainees Curtis Martin and Bob Lomadafkie, Jr., of the Native American Program of the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Programs, examine anthropological collections. Below. A Fundamentals of Museum Management Workshop is in session, July 10, 1978.

<<<Page: 205>>>

ter in Oklahoma to locate collections materials to be purchased for display; provided photographs and complete identification of Smithsonian holdings of Jicarilla Apache material culture to representatives of that tribe; assisted in loans of materials from the collections of the Department of Anthropology of the National Museum of Natural History for the Hoopa Tribal Museum, Hoopa, California; the Cheyenne-Arapaho Tribal Museum in Canton, Oklahoma; and the Oglala Sioux Museumobile in Pine Ridge, South Dakota.
To enable Native Americans to attend Smithsonian workshops, the program identified and obtained funding from the Arizona Commission for the Arts and Humanities, the Employment Assistance Program of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the National Indian Training and Research Center, and the Oklahoma Indian Commission. In cooperation with the Robert H. Lowie Museum of Anthropology and the Oakland Museum in California, internships were arranged for three persons from the Mendo Lake Pomo Tribe and the Owens Valley Piaute-Shoshone Tribe. With the assistance of the Conservation Information Program, and at the request of the Department of Anthropology of the National Museum of Natural History, archival videotapes were made of the art and technique of the Maria Martinez family of potters from San Ildefonso Pueblo, New Mexico, and of an interview and demonstration by Georgia Harris, a Catawba Indian potter from North Carolina.
Limited financial resources prevented full response to all of the requests that were received, and much effort was applied to securing support from other organizations and agencies interested in advancing the development of Native American training. The result of this effort was promising, but limited: the United States Department of Labor provided funds which enabled the coordinator to make five trips to tribal areas for on-site consultations and training recruitment; an additional trip was financed through George Washington University; and a grant to fund a seminar for tribal museum directors and to provide stipends for six internships was received from the Trust Fund Outreach Program established by the Regents of the Smithsonian.
Efforts to obtain additional support for future on-site work at reservations, and to bring trainees to the Smithsonian for internships, will continue to be a significant part of the coordinator’s activities.
194 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 206>>>

The Conservation Information Program (crip) distributed 440 slide shows and 208 videotape packages to museums, universities, and other educational organizations interested in the principles of conservation of museum collections. Most of the audiovisual presentations seek to demonstrate the need for respect of the museum object and the care it demands. Among the presentations produced to date is a core series of eighty videotaped lectures, prepared in cooperation with the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, dealing with the procedures and chemistry of conservation. Other videotapes and slide shows illustrate specific preventive techniques in the care of paper, textiles, pottery, and basketry materials. One specialized slide show discusses the treatment of metals, and another the use and installation of the hygrothermograph. A new slide presentation treats technical problems affecting the safety of objects while on exhibition. During the preparation of all audiovisual presentations, the Conservation Information Program staff consult closely with Smithsonian conservators, scientists, and other experts.
In response to many requests, copies of these informational audiovisual presentations were made available for sale in 1976. This year, 275 videotapes and 46 slide programs were purchased by 29 institutions in the United States, Canada, Australia, Italy, Great Britain, Hong Kong, Venezuela, Switzerland, and New Zealand, producing a total sales distribution of 701 videotapes and 107 slide presentations to date.
Projects initiated in 1978 include the first videotape by cip on historic preservation, a new series of slide shows on problems of handling museum objects, and a new series of videotapes documenting Smithsonian craftsmen at work. crip also produced and made available in the 1977-1978 season a videotape on docent training. As a service to other units of the Institution, videotapes were made this year of the events of Kaleidoscope Day at the National Collection of Fine Arts and of three lectures presented at the National Portrait Gallery.
While some cip presentations are designed to illustrate techniques useful to museums, others are intended to enhance the awareness of basic principles of conservation. Future programming will continue the much needed conservation series while expanding into other aspects of museum operations, such as educational programming, exhibition design and installation, and archival uses of
Museum Programs / 195

<<<Page: 207>>>

videotaped materials. New programs in both formats are continuously under production, and increased amounts of printed instructional and technical materials are being prepared to accompany them.
This year, a gift of four videotapes of children’s games and two films on family folklore were received from staff members of the Folklife Festival. These will be released as part of the distribution program when printed matter has been prepared.
Activities of the Psychological Studies Program were renewed in 1978 through a technical services contract with Dr. Robert Wolf of Indiana University. The basic purpose of the program is to assist the museum bureaus of the Institution to understand the impact and effectiveness of their exhibits and programs and to develop procedures for the inclusion of these considerations in the planning and development stages of future exhibits.
During the year, meetings held with representatives of most of the bureaus underscored an Institution-wide interest in evaluation, and it became clear that evaluation needs differed for each museum. Specific planning sessions were begun with the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the National Museum of History and Technology, the National Museum of Natural History, and the National Zoological Park. In some instances, the Psychological Studies Program itself will perform the evaluation service and use these projects as prototypes for future internal studies.
During the year, work was completed on an annotated bibliography of evaluation literature, focusing particularly on references to qualitative inquiry methods relevant to the study of the museum environment. The bibliography will reinforce the ability of individual museums to initiate and pursue evaluation programs responsive to their particular circumstances.
The Museum Reference Center, which holds a growing collection of bibliographic and documentary materials on the history, philosophy, and operation of museums, as well as on legislation, conventions, and other developments affecting museums, was established in 1974 as a part of the Office of Museum Programs. Because of its growth and the increasing complexity of its holdings, this year the Center was made a unit of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, which will permit it to enjoy the full range of bibliographic services which that system can offer. The Center will re-
196 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 208>>>

main, however, an adjunct to the Office of Museum Programs, since it is that unit which draws most heavily on the Center’s resources and through which most of its growth and use will be channeled.
The Center remains as the only location of museum information assembled and collected on a systematic basis for use by the museum profession. Its holdings are rich in such fields as museum organization, administration, and management; museum programs, activities, and exhibitions; architecture; exhibit design; the management of collections; training activities; conservation, registration, and related technologies.
During the past year, the Center provided a variety of services for museum professionals doing research on museums. These services included literature searches, preparation of bibliographies, response to requests for information on current activities, issues, and training opportunities, and assembly of materials for use in workshops and training programs. The Center also distributed copies of reports as well as publications it generated. Among these are Museum Studies Programs in the United States and Abroad, The Museum Visitor by C. H. Wells, and reports produced under the National Museum Act grants.
A new brochure, describing Museum Reference Center services and holdings, was prepared and distributed during the year.
During fiscal year 1978, the Office of Museum Programs continued to offer career counseling for persons interested in the museum field, compiled resource materials, and provided consulting services for other museum studies programs. The Office conducted task force meetings to develop plans for the Smithsonian’s conversion to the metric system and assembled statistics to support recommendations for procedures to be followed during the conversion process. Members of the staff served frequently during the year as speakers at museum conferences, and were engaged in national and international museum training activities.
Office of the Registrar
The most significant development involving the Office of the Registrar in 1978 was the initiation of a new Smithsonian collection
Museum Programs / 197

<<<Page: 209>>>

inventory program. Although the necessity for conducting accurate inventories has always been emphasized as a major priority in the management of the Institution’s collections, integration of the individual inventory activities has not been made a requirement. Under the new program, overall responsibility for coordinating inventories on an Institution-wide basis has been assigned to the Smithsonian Registrar.
The inventory control assignment is a logical extension of the collections policy and management effort, which—after the conclusion of the initial major study last year—was reconstituted as a continuing activity, and the role of the Office in regard to it remains the same.
Ccordination of registrarial activities was provided as usual this year through the Council of Registrars. In addition to transacting business and discussing professional matters at its regular monthly meetings, the Council held a number of special sessions with staff members from other offices on proposed procedures and other issues related to the management of collections. One of the Council’s projects in 1978 was the preparation of a document delineating the occupation of museum registrar and suggesting evaluation criteria based on the new Factor Evaluation System recently initiated by the Civil Service Commission.
Members of the Council again served as instructors in a seminar on registration methods, the second one offered by the Office of Museum Programs as part of its Workshop Series. This year the Office of the Registrar developed and presented a new seminar on information management and automation in museums. The material was first offered to participants from other institutions in the regular external series and subsequently to Smithsonian staff members in an internal series.
Smithsonian Institution Archives
The long-awaited Guide to the Smithsonian Archives was finally published in fiscal: year 1978. The Guide comprises some 300 pages and includes over 400 entries. A guide to the manuscripts and special collections of the National Museum of History and Technology
198 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 210>>>

has been completed by the Archives staff and will be published in fiscal year 1979. Work continued on the records of the National Museum of Natural History, the National Museum of History and Technology, and the National Collection of Fine Arts. A records survey was conducted in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; and records management services were provided for the Accounting Office and the Smithsonian Institution Employees Federal Credit Union.
In May the Archives developed an exhibit illustrating the life of Spencer Fullerton Baird, the Smithsonian’s second Secretary, and the premier nineteenth-century American naturalist. Designed to illustrate Baird’s success as a naturalist and as a scientific administrator, the exhibit was displayed in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution Building in conjunction with the dedication of a statue of Baird by Leonard Baskin, which stands in the Victorian Garden south of the Smithsonian ‘’Castle.”
Major accessions were received from the National Museum of Natural History, the National Museum of History and Technology, the Office of Equal Opportunity, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, the Office of Grants and Insurance, and the Office of the Secretary. Other accessions of note include the papers of Alexander Wetmore, Rowland R. McElvare, and Arthur Allen, and the records of the Botanical Society of Washington.
The Archives Oral History Program continued, with emphasis on the history of the National Museum of Natural History, the history of the National Zoological Park, and Smithsonian administrative history. Important accessions included interviews with Lucile Q. Mann relating to the history of the National Zoo; Frank A. Taylor, former director of the National Museum of History and Technology; and John Warren Aldrich, Fenner A. Chace, Jr., Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., and Leonard P. Schultz of the National Museum of Natural History.
Scholars continued to visit the Archives during fiscal year 1978. Several recent publications have appeared, based at least in part on material in the Archives. Among them are: Joseph Ewan, “Josiah Hale, M.D., Louisiana Botanist, Rafinesque’s Pupil,” Journal of the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History, 8 (1977): 235-243; Kevin Robert Hart, Government Geologists and the Early Man Controversy: The Problem of “Official” Science in America, 1879-
Museum Programs / 199

<<<Page: 211>>>

1907, Ph.D. dissertation Kansas State University, 1976; Arthur L. Norberg, “Simon Newcomb’s Early Astronomical Career,” Isis, 69 (1978): 209-225; and Ronald L. Numbers, Creation by Natural Law: Laplace’s Nebular Hypothesis in America (Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1977).
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
In fiscal year 1978, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries (sit) unit has made slow but significant gains in endeavors to improve control over and access to its dispersed collections, in improved access to bibliographic information, in conservation, and in the growth of outreach programs.
Mechanisms of control were considerably improved by the introduction of an alternate system to full cataloguing, achieved by the use of automated techniques. This alternate system allows relatively rapid listings of books and can provide access to them by several approaches, such as author, title, date, publisher, etc. Over 5000 titles have been recorded in the system. These titles comprise four major gift collections that have been languishing in various library staging areas with only the barest documentation while awaiting full cataloguing. These collections are now more accessible to users, and records for inventory and for eventual disposition of individual items are available. Portions of the permanent collections for which nonconventional cataloguing is more appropriate than full cataloguing have also been listed in this way. Among these is the National Museum of History and Technology’s collection of catalogues of national and international expositions. A short title catalogue of the rare books in the magnificent Dibner gift has also been completed. It is now possible to search these landmarks in the history of science by author, title, date, printer, and place.
Improved control and access were also expanded by traditional cataloguing. Virtually the entire Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies Library collection, a recent addition to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, was catalogued. Where the need was most critical, it was also possible to increase the amount of recataloguing from the old Dewey system of classification used by
200 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 212>>>

the Libraries during most of its first hundred years to the Library of Congress system adopted in 1965. Over 1200 titles, mostly in the natural history libraries, have been recatalogued during the year. The Libraries’ online cataloguing system made most of these . gains possible. Expanded use of the Libraries online cataloguing through the Ohio College Library Center required the purchase of two more terminals. One of the terminals has also been used for reference purposes to tap the tremendous Ohio College Library Center data base of a large part of the nation’s literature resources.
Additional new products of the Libraries’ automated systems included a partial list of currently received books as well as a listing of books purchased by the Institution, but not catalogued.
Further efforts to improve control and access have included improvements in charging systems initiated in the National Zoological Park Library and several of the partially manned library collections of the National Museum of Natural History Library as well as inventories of materials in curatorial offices. Organization of most of the diverse materials in the Smithsonian Institution Service Center has also been completed. Partial inventories in the National Museum of History and Technology and the National Zoological Park have been completed and organization of Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s materials has continued.
During 1978, the sit expanded its reference services to include online bibliographic data base searching which allows the Libraries to scan journal, report, and book citations and abstracts, and provide bibliographies tailored to the particular research question of the user. Large files of book and journal citations are searched rapidly by a number of different approaches including combinations of subjects not always possible when searching printed indexes and abstracts manually.
The Smithsonian Institution Libraries unit made significant progress in its conservation program. The Conservation Laboratory was completed and the Conservator reviewed the library collections for conservation needs. Hundreds of books were worked on; scotch tape was removed from the victims of “home” repair; paper clips and paper clip marks, colored tapes, and rubberbands were removed; books were repaired, restored, rebound, and put in special acid-free folders and envelopes, and were deacidified. Leather bindings were treated. The newly appointed handbinder performed in-
Museum Programs / 201

<<<Page: 213>>>

house restoration and handbinding of non-rare books. Other inhouse handwork included map encapsulation and pamphlet binding. Additional resources also allowed sit to increase the commercial binding of journal volumes as well as the rebinding of volumes worn out by heavy use or old age.
sIL continued to extend its services beyond the immediate Smithsonian circle. The Library of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, soon to open with its rich resources in design literature, will serve as support to the New York design community. The National Air and Space Museum Library responded to an increasing number of inquiries from air buffs and historians and created a unique data base of citations, the National Air and Space Museum Library Bulletin, to facilitate and improve its responses. The Museum Reference Center is expanding its role as an information center for museums in this country and abroad.
A number of exhibits were prepared in the Dibner Library and several items loaned to other Institutions for exhibit including Agricola’s De re Metallica, Basle, Froben, 1556, for the opening of the National Gallery of Art’s East Building. Exhibits in the Dibner Library prepared by rare book library staff included the following:
Treasures from the Dibner Collection
Important Works in the History of Technology
In Honor of William Harvey (works in the history of medicine)
Women Scientists
Highlights of the Collection for visitors from The People’s Re-
public of China
Early Printed Works for library science students from Pittsburgh.
The Libraries unit has also been able to offer some assistance to several libraries which were victims of natural disasters. Staff from the Corning Museum of Glass Library visited the National Museum of History and Technology Library and selected items from the glass trade literature collection for microfilming to replace material lost at Corning in the recent flood. The gift and exchange program of Acquisitions Services provided new and old Smithsonian publications in botany and anthropology to several major libraries in Honduras damaged or destroyed by hurricane “Fifi.”
si. involvement with the outside world was not only outerdirected, but also the outside world imposed itself upon the Libraries unit’s operation—not in all cases helpfully. sm addressed implica-
202 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 214>>>

tions of the new copyright law and changes in the lending policy of the Library of Congress and began to examine the impact on the Smithsonian Institution Libraries of revolutionary changes in cataloguing now planned by the Library of Congress in response to changes in international cataloguing rules. The examination and solution of the first two of these problems have for the most part been the work of library staff committees. Staff committees are also studying the future of the sit card catalogue in light of the Library of Congress’s planned cataloguing changes. The study will result in recommendations for implementing the new rules and possibly new means of access to bibliographic records, such as a transportable union catalogue.
Library space, insufficient and dispersed, continues to be the Smithsonian Institution Libraries unit’s most pressing problem and although a number of measures have been undertaken to reduce its impact they are inadequate and do not compensate for normal growth. The Radiation Biology Laboratory Library, one-fourth full when it moved into its present quarters in 1970, will be at capacity level in 1980. Even the new National Air and Space Museum Library is beginning to pinch, and still further dispersal of the National Museum of History and Technology’s book collection has been forced on that Library. To alleviate the crunch, weeding continues as well as the purchase of microfilm.
The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received a number of notable gifts during 1978. Mrs. George D. Brabson gave a color set of the superb Rex Brasher bird prints, Birds and Trees of North America, copy #52 of 500 copies printed, only 100 copies of which have colored prints. Charles Sachs gave to the National Air and Space Museum Library the flight chart of Charles Lindbergh; the flight chart has a manuscript addendum in the hand of Charles A. Lindbergh, signed and dated by him. The National Air and Space Museum gave a George Washington note discovered in the National Air and Space Museum’s Harry F. Guggenheim balloon print collection to the National Air and Space Museum Library. A ticket of admission to Foulke’s balloon demonstration at the University of Pennsylvania on May 17, 1784, accompanied the autograph letter signed by George Washington, who regretted that he could not be present at the demonstration because he had to attend the first meeting of the Sons of the Cincinnati.
Museum Programs / 203

<<<Page: 215>>>

Two large and appropriate collections from government libraries were also donated: the historical portion of the Oklahoma Field Office Library of the Federal Aviation Agency was transferred to the National Air and Space Museum, and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing transferred its Office of Engraving Library to the National Museum of History and Technology Library; the latter library consists of about 400 nineteenth-century titles.
The Smithsonian staff continued to be generous donors. Fortyfive individuals gave almost 400 volumes plus 74 phonograph records.
Not only books were received. In appreciation for help given by the National Air and Space Museum, the National Zoological Park, the National Museum of Natural History, and the National Museum of History and Technology library staffs to Time-Life staff doing background research, the Company gave the Libraries $2,000. In addition, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum Library welcomed the gift of a much needed and expensive paper cutter from a thoughtful volunteer.
Funded by the Institution’s Foreign Currency Program, sIL worked with the National Science Foundation to produce the translation of 966 pages of foreign research publications from 8 different languages, as well as the translation and publication of 8 books, among them Keys to the Insects of the European USSR, by G. Bei-Bienko and N. N. Tsvelev’s Grasses of the Soviet Union.
Volunteers have again provided invaluable support in a number of areas. At the National Air and Space Museum they have been indexing the Alexander Graham Bell aeronautical scrapbooks in preparation for microfilming, and listening to audiotapes to record data for a computerized catalogue of this collection. At the CooperHewitt Museum Library they have been a mainstay to the entire library operation struggling to get the collection unpacked and organized.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
For the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sires), 1978 was marked by an increase in major projects jointly devel-
204 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 216>>>

oped with Smithsonian bureaus and other United States museums. “Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church,” which opened in September at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, was the first major exhibition to be developed with the CooperHewitt Museum. sites arranged for Dr. Theodore Stebbins of the Museum of Fine Arts to curate the exhibition and write the catalogue in exchange for the opening booking of the tour at Boston. sites also co-published the exhibition catalogue with the Smithsonian Institution Press. Two other joint ventures with the CooperHewitt were “Subways: An Underground Exhibition” and “Crosscurrents: Neoclassical Drawings and Prints from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.”
SITES was especially pleased to develop, with the support of the Office of Exhibits Central, the first traveling exhibition from the National Air and Space Museum. “Exhibition Flight” includes illustrated text panels augmented by three scale model airplanes, carefully built by the Office of Exhibits Central modelmakers. A joint venture with the National Museum of Natural History produced “A Korean Village in Transition: An Anthropological Field Trip.”
The majority of the planning and negotiation for exhibitions with other Smithsonian bureaus included: ‘“Louis M. Eilshemius in the Hirshhorn Museum Collection” and “Modern Sculptors and their Work” with the Hirshhorn; “What’s in a Map?” and “Pochoir” with the National Museum of History and Technology; and “The Likeness They Left Behind’ with the National Portrait Gallery.
Among exhibitions developed with other United States museums were “Charles Burchfield: The Charles Rand Penney Collection” with the Memorial Art Gallery of the University of Rochester and “Dorothea Lange: Her Collection’ with the Oakland (California) Museum. sites made arrangements to co-develop and circulate a major exhibition of paintings from the Phillips Collection to begin tour in September 1979 and is planning to design and produce, with support from the Office of Exhibits Central, an important exhibition on the history of jazz and ragtime with the Louisiana State Museum.
Twenty-five new exhibitions were introduced into the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service’s program in 1978. New exhibitions in sires International Program included ‘Daum:
Museum Programs / 205

<<<Page: 217>>>



<<<Page: 218>>>

A Pageant of
sring:
Facing page. Frederic Church, during his 1857 trip to South America, portrayed Mount Chimborazo from various distances and under different weather and atmospheric conditions. Mount Chimborazo shown here is one of four versions in the exhibition jointly organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum entitled “Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church. Another exhibition “Korean Village in Transition: An Anthropological Field Trip” was developed by sires and the National Museum of Natural History and was curated by Dr. Eugene Knez. Above. Secretary Ripley opens the siTEs exhibition “Sringar” with Mrs. Cyrus Vance and Indian Ambassador Nani Palkhivala at the Museum of Natural History. Right. Female Saint and Thistle from sites exhibition “One Man’s Vision: The Graphic Works of Odilon Redon,” which was lent by Edwin Binney, 3rd. sites published a 45-page catalogue and a poster to accompany the exhibition.

<<<Page: 219>>>

One Hundred Years of Glass and Crystal,” “French Folk Art,” and “Sringar.”
The sires General Program developed two important paper exhibitions, “Paper as Medium” and “New American Monotypes.” Other new exhibitions included ‘Artists’ Postcards” and “The First 4000 Years: The Ratner Collection of Judaean Antiquities.”
The sires American Studies Program introduced several new science and technology exhibitions, ““The Art of Scientific Illustration,” “Images of Earth from Space,” “Birds of Prey: Paintings by Louis Agassiz Fuertes,’”” and ‘“What’s in a Map?,” while continuing to arrange for exhibitions on aspects of American cultural history, such as “Shaker Built’”” and ‘Dorothea Lange: Her Collection.”
Two popular exhibitions were refurbished and put back on tour: “Handicrafts of the Southeast” and ‘’Embroideries by the Children of Chijnaya, Peru.”
Compared with 1977, sires more than doubled the number of major catalogues published. Eight titles were issued under the aegis of sites, including Charles Burchfield: The Charles Rand Penney Collection; The Image of Urban Optimism; One Man’s Vision: The Graphic Works of Odilon Redon; and Paper as Medium. Black Women: Achievements Against the Odds Calendar, 1978-80 was developed by sires staff in collaboration with the staff of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. sites also published booklets, folders, and posters to accompany exhibitions.
Among the more innovative educational projects undertaken by sites staff was a videotaped gallery tour by the curator of “Close Observation,” filmed at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
Although sites functions primarily as an agency for the circulation of exhibitions in the United States, the office arranges to send a limited number of shows abroad every year upon special request. This past year the number of exhibitions shown abroad (not including Canada, which regularly receives sites exhibitions) increased dramatically. “Antarctica” went to New Zealand; “There’s a Sound in the Sea” went to Norway; “The Seat of American Invention” to Holland; and two exhibitions spent the year in Australia: ‘“American Coverlets’” and “Molas from the San Blas Islands.”
208 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 220>>>

Tours for period October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978
MGEEREOE DOGKINES acl) Ge see ov hee oe Re Ye ate Whee oe 760 NMPEEEGE States SErVEd +... o)e/sshc os eee Bees ee see hms 47 RPRM EME ITGTCTICR os Seyi. = fale Mesto gk 6 Sw haw ne els 6,080,000
Exhibitions (including duplicates) listed in last Update ieataleeue at SILES exhibitions) 22. sv s..02e<% 6.2 s oe 213
Exhibitions produced for tour during the year fieiccane additional versions) s20.6. 2.52/52. 2j68 sole = 27
Exhibitions beginning tours October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978
African Artists in America
America’s Architectural Heritage (3 duplicates)
The Art of Scientific Illustration
Artists’ Postcards
Birds of Prey: Paintings by Louis Agassiz Fuertes
Charles Burchfield: The Charles Rand Penney Collection Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church Daum: One Hundred Years of Glass and Crystal
Dorothea Lange: Her Collection
Embroideries by the Children of Chijnaya, Peru
Exhibition Flight
The First 4000 Years: The Ratner Collection of Judaean Antiquities French Folk Art
The Great West, Real/Ideal
Handicrafts of the Southeast
The Image of Urban Optimism
Images of Earth from Space
Korean Village in Transition: An Anthropological Field Trip New American Monotypes
One Man’s Vision: The Graphic Works of Odilon Redon Paper as Medium
Portrait of America
Shaker Built
Sringar
What's in a Map?
Museum Programs / 209

<<<Page: 221>>>

Bhs, > \
Community youngsters participate in a summer art workshop at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. The masks on the wall are samples of their work.

<<<Page: 222>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
As the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum enters its second decade, it continues to present varied and exciting exhibitions and programs to the Washington area. Believing that in speaking to the needs and interests of the Anacostia community ideas of interest to all are developed, the Museum offers shows and educational concepts that cover a wide range of topics and experiences.
The year began with the continuation of ‘The Anacostia Story: 1608-1930,” an exhibition on the Anacostia community’s rich history that would have been impossible without the participation of community residents. Many of these same people are active membrs of the Museum-sponsored Anacostia Historical Society.
Organized over four years ago, the Anacostia Historical Society this past year presented a popular lecture series. With a grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, the Society sponsored the appearance of five speakers. The series began in November, when Dr. Paul Cook, former president of D.C. Teachers College spoke on the history of public higher education in the District. Colonel West Alexander Hamilton spoke on ‘“Reminiscences or Experiences Relating to Anacostia History”; Dr. Benjamin Quarles, historian and author, spoke on “Frederick Douglass: The Unfading Light’; Mr. Lisle C. Carter, president of the University of the District of Columbia, spoke about the future of public

<<<Page: 223>>>

higher education in Washington, D.C.; and Dr. Sylvia Render, specialist in Afro-American history and culture at the Library of Congress, ended the series with a talk on “Afro-American Women: The Outstanding and the Obscure.”
In celebration of Black History Month (February), the Museum presented a new version of “The Frederick Douglass Years.” Designed to be circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the exhibit traces the life of the nineteenthcentury human-rights leader from his birth as a slave until his death in 1895 at Cedar Hill in Anacostia.
To enhance the exhibition and to show the relationship between Douglass and the Washington community, the Museum, in cooperation with the National Park Service, published Douglass’s “Lecture on Our National Capital,” with an introduction by the noted historian Dr. Benjamin Quarles. Assessing the city’s virtues and vices in an effort to measure the progress made by the nation during his lifetime, Douglass delivered his speech in Washington, D.C., in 1875 and again in Baltimore in 1877. Until its publication by the Museum and the National Park Service, the speech had never before appeared in print.
Also in connection with the exhibition, the Education Department produced two resource units conforming to competency-based curricula guidelines for use in city schools: “Frederick Douglass: Fighter for Freedom (1817—1895)” and “Secondary School Questions for Discussion and Research.” This exhibition and educational programming demonstrated the Museum’s continuing cooperation with other government agencies and local groups in an effort to serve its audience more effectively. This past year, the Education Department, working with teachers and area residents, also produced “Minority Women Speak,” a twenty-page directory of speakers available on such topics as local history, career development, and consumerism.
In April 1978, the Museum presented ‘Phil Ratner’s Washington,” a tribute to the city of Washington and the local artist who has captured so much of its life in sculpture. Ratner, who has taught art at the Anacostia High School for twenty years, turns to the community for inspiration. Besides Ratner’s sculptures, stained glass, tapestries, and drawings, the show included works by some of his most promising students.
212 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 224>>>

“Exhibition ’78,”” the Museum’s sixth cooperative show with the District of Columbia Art Association, opened on the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s eleventh anniversary. Such joint ventures are evidence of a renaissance of artistic activity in the Washington area, and the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum is glad to have contributed to the improvement of day-to-day relationships between the artist and the community. As part of this process, the Education Department sponsored demonstrations, lectures, and tours that were given by the members of the District of Columbia Art Association.
While presenting these varied exhibitions and their support programs, the research, education, design, and production staffs have at the same time been busy preparing for a major exhibition ‘““Out of Africa: From West African Kingdoms to Colonization,” to open in Black History Month in 1979. The exhibition marks a significant step for the Museum, for in telling this story it is relying mainly on original artifacts and documents that it has borrowed from distinguished institutions and that it will display in a visually exciting environment.
In preparation for this new emphasis on source materials, members of the research staff have taken various courses—given by both the Smithsonian Institution and the National Park Service—in the preservation and conservation of artifacts, curatorial methods, and collections management. Areas of the Research Department and the Exhibits Center, set aside for storage of loaned objects as well as a permanent collection, are now being readied to receive the artifacts and documents for this upcoming exhibition. Collections-management guidelines are also being formulated and instituted to insure continued proper treatment of artifacts.
During the past year, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum looked ahead as it developed a proposed mission statement on its future. The statement calls for the Museum to become a national center for the study of Afro-American history and art and to begin the collection of appropriate artifacts. As the Museum seeks to broaden its scope, the success of its training program in exhibits design and production, which was funded by the Ford Foundation and terminated in April 1978, augurs well for the future.
Public Service / 213

<<<Page: 225>>>

a s..
a Ss oe %
Judging entries for the D.C. Art Association’s ‘Exhibition ’78’” at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum are Joshua Taylor, Director, National Collection of Fine Arts; John N. Robinson, Anacostia artist and member of the D.C. Commission on the Arts and Humanities; and David Driskell, Professor of Art at the University of Maryland. Below. Artist Phillip Ratner in conversation with Georgia Jessup-Luck, Supervising Director of Art, D.C. Public Schools.

<<<Page: 226>>>

An outstanding exhibit at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum in 1978 was “Phil Ratner’s Washington.” Here a young visitor is intrigued by the sculpture Two Wheel Lovers, while below another visitor studies Subway.

<<<Page: 227>>>

Division of Performing Arts
The Division of Performing Arts’ major thrust in 1978 was the development of closer liaison with the museums and collections of the Smithsonian in the programmatic development of the concerts and special events that are presented to the public throughout the year.
Two major special events were presented: The Christmas Celebration and the Fourth of July Celebration at the National Museum of History and Technology. These Celebrations combined demonstrations of craft skills, music and dance performances, games, films, puppet shows and other children’s events, historic speeches and readings, and special audience-participation activities. The program resulted from a collaborative effort of the curatorial staff of the National Museum of History and Technology and the program staff of the Division of Performing Arts. Both events enlivened the Museum and focused attention on the history and traditions of these two great American holidays. Public enthusiasm for these celebrations was evidenced by the attendance of 131,928 during the sevenday Christmas Celebration and 129,272 for the four-day July 4th Celebration.
During its regular season of events the Division of Performing Arts produced more than fifty public concerts. Many of these events were dramatic extensions of the exhibits offered by the Smithsonian museums. Of special interest were the performances of music and dance from West Java and Sri Lanka, an evening of Victorian ballroom dancing presented in the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery, several concerts of contemporary music presented at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and concerts devoted to historic music from the American Musical Theater.
A notable achievement in intra-institutional programming was achieved by the reconstruction of a concert of the Hutchinson family which took place at the Renwick Gallery. The Hutchinsons, America’s most popular singing group of the nineteenth century, performed at the Smithsonian Institution on the eve of the Civil War, were actively involved in the forefront of the abolitionist movement, were early supporters of women’s suffrage, and established a public-performance tradition the influence of which extended well into the twentieth century. The reconstructed concert was a cooperative effort with the Division of Musical Instruments
216 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 228>>>

Count Basie, the great jazz pianist and orchestra leader, talks with Julian T. Euell
(center), Assistant Secretary for Public Service, and James R. Morris, Director of the Division of Performing Arts, at the reception in Count Basie’s honor following the performance of his orchestra at Baird Auditorium on February 5, 1978. Below. The Smithsonian Chamber Players in rehearsal at the Hall of Musical Instruments.

<<<Page: 229>>>

and utilized period dress, the bust of John Hutchinson, period instruments, furniture, graphics, and decor drawn from the collections of the Museum of History and Technology. The format of the concert reflected careful research by the staff of the Division of Performing Arts into the performance traditions common to nineteenth-century America. The music performed in this concert was recorded and will be issued for public and educational uses in 1979. It is through programs such as these that the unique role of performances, presented in a museum context, is best realized.
For the sixth year the Division offered a distinguished group of concerts in its Jazz Heritage series. Artists participating in these concerts included Freddie Hubbard, Dexter Gordon, Count Basie, Dick Hyman, and Benny Carter. A particularly noteworthy event of the concert series was the reconstruction of a program of music composed for small ensemble by Ferdinand “Jelly Roll” Morton. The recording of this concert will be issued by the Smithsonian Collection of Recordings late in 1978.
The Jazz Oral History Project, conducted under contractual agreement with the National Endowment for the Arts, has continued to collect and transcribe lengthy autobiographical interviews with elder jazz musicians who have shaped the musical life of America and the world. Fifty-three such interviews have been conducted to date, and an additional series is scheduled for 1978-1979.
The African Diaspora Program, in the person of Dr. Bernice Reagon, has been engaged in summarizing, analyzing, and documenting five years of research and presentation. A final manuscript on the program is to be completed by January 1979.
During the year, Dr. Reagon produced and/or participated in a number of concerts, lecture demonstrations, and workshops. Highlights were: “Street Culture in D.C.,” five days of performances and demonstrations by participants from Afro-American, AfroCuban, and Afro-Brazilian communities in the D.C. area as part of the 1977 Festival of American Folklife; the last concert appearance of blues musician Big Chief Ellis just three weeks before his death in December 1977; and “An Evening of American Protest Song,” with Sweet Honey in the Rock and Pete Seeger.
Lecture demonstrations and workshops presented by Dr. Reagon included: “Politics of Black Culture,” for the Department of Political Science, Howard University; “Black Traditional Solo Styles,”
218 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 230>>>

for the Cincinnati, Ohio, public school system; and “American Protest Culture,” for the international symposium “Latin American Protest Culture: Music and Literature,” held in Mexico City.
The Division of Performing Arts continued its major publications effort by the issuance of nine recordings. The recordings issued in 1978 were: Music for Harpsichord; Orchestrion—The Magnificent Music Machine; Duke Ellington 1939; John Kirby 1937-1941—The Biggest Little Band; Ziegfeld Follies of 1919; Anything Goes; Lady, Be Good!; Oh, Kay!; and Souvenirs of Hot Chocolates.
A substantially increased activity for the dissemination of these publications resulted in the placing of over 80,000 copies of the Smithsonian Collection of Recordings in schools, libraries, and homes. Popular and critical reaction to these recordings was extremely enthusiastic as illustrated by these comments: “’. . . this is an important set of records for anybody who cares about the past and future of the American musical.’”—Los Angeles Times; “ very handsomely packaged with splendid documentation (could the Smithsonian do otherwise?) .. ..’” —New York Times. Yet another measure of the worth of these recordings was the award of a Gold Record by the Recording Industry Association of America signifying that a million records of the jazz album, The Smithsonian Collection of Classic Jazz, were pressed and distributed. This is the first time such an award has been made in the field of educational recordings.
The Division of Performing Arts also managed a second national tour by the Smithsonian Chamber Players as participants in the Smithsonian National Associates’ Regional Program. The Chamber Players performed music of the Baroque and Classical periods utilizing instruments from the Smithsonian Collection, participated in workshops, and gave lectures; these activities extended the performance of the Division of Musical Instruments to a national audience.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education With the belief that it is equally as important for students to learn
to use works of art, natural history specimens, historical artifacts, and other museum resources as research tools as it is for them to
Public Service / 219

<<<Page: 231>>>

use words and numbers, the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (oEsE) continued to serve the Smithsonian’s education offices while working to meet a growing commitment to foster the educational uses of museums in the Washington area and throughout the nation.
Art to Zoo—a four-page publication to promote the use of museums, parks, libraries, zoos, and other community resources—was distributed to approximately 25,000 teachers nationally. In conjunction with Art to Zoo a new seventeen-minute film entitled Museums: Where Fun Is Learning was prepared by oEsE to show how students in a museum can actively learn rather than simply stare. The film, narrated by Assistant Secretary Julian Euell, illustrates the contention that “learning comes in many forms, but it is active learning that stays with you.” Designed for national distribution, the film encourages teachers to see museums as an alternative source of education, one which brings their children into contact with the real objects of life.
Supported by a grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, staff members from orsE and the National Portrait Gallery began production of a slide package for national distribution, showing how you too can create—with maximum educational profit—a full-fledged museum in your classroom from materials readily at hand. This slide package will be ready for teachers to use during the 1978-1979 school year.
On the local level, ogse continues to offer a number of programs that have proven successful in the past, while continuing to grow with new programs and new directions. Let’s Go (a monthly newsletter) and Learning Opportunities for Schools (an annual brochure) that inform teachers of the ever-growing variety of Smithsonian services available to students were sent free to approximately 1200 schools in the District of Columbia area. Let’s Go was expanded to include two new columns—an “Editor’s Corner” and a section especially for high school teachers.
Also offered for local teachers is ‘“Teacher’s Day,” held annually. This year, Teacher’s Day brought more than a hundred Washington area teachers and Smithsonian staff together for an informal program of activities arranged for the occasion by the Education Office at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. In December, ogse’s Teacher’s Christmas Program was held at the National
220 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 232>>>

Museum of History and Technology. Traditional Christmas games and foods enriched a tour of the Museum’s holiday exhibits.
Now in its seventh year, orse’s workshop and seminar program offered a wide variety of activities designed to help teachers find means of using Smithsonian and other community resources to maximum advantage in their classrooms. Approximately 2000 teachers participated in the workshops which included four summer (1978) courses enabling the development of curriculum units based on Smithsonian resources. A new course “The Museum as a Resource for Teaching Writing Skills’’ emphasized the teaching of basic writing skills by utilizing museum resources.
In 1978, oEsE sponsored its fourth annual program for summer interns. Intern ’78 brought thirty-five high school seniors from rural and inner-city communities to the Smithsonian to engage in learning and service projects. The students worked under the guidance of curatorial and technical staff members in various parts of the Institution. These assignments give a new perspective; as one intern explained, “Since I have been working at the Zoo, I have really become interested in animals .. . I have decided that maybe, when I graduate from college, I would like to work with animals.” This summer, for the first time, the James Smithson Society provided financial support for the program. This, together with continued support from the DeWitt Wallace Fund, opened the program to students from a wider geographic area.
Supported by a grant from the Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach Fund, oksE is now working with the bureaus’ Education Offices to develop a series of programs for hearing-impaired visitors. The position of Handicapped Program Coordinator has been established to coordinate this effort and to assist in the program development.
Other important OEsE activities included: (1) chairmanship of a special Smithsonian committee for handicapped individuals; (2) operating a resource center, which loans to the education staff throughout the Institution printed and audiovisual materials relating to museum education; and (3) expanding the scope and understanding of the professional museum educator, through participation in national and regional conferences and workshops. oese staff members also helped to plan and teach seminars on Docent Training, Museum/School Relations, and Museum Interpretation given at the Smithsonian by the Office of Museum Programs.
Public Service / 221

<<<Page: 233>>>

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Throughout fiscal year 1978, the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars increased its efforts to demonstrate the intimate links between the dual process of increasing and diffusing knowledge, and the uses of the sciences and humanities in analyzing trends in modern civilization.
Working with an advisory group made up of specialists from all over the Smithsonian, the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars has begun preparations for three major educational endeavors: (1) the seventh international Smithsonian symposium scheduled for the spring of 1981, on human adaptation; (2) the 1979 centennial of the birth of Albert Einstein, organized in close collaboration with the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton; and (3) participation in the International Year of the Child proclaimed for 1979 by the United Nations and for the United States by President Carter.
Understanding biological and cultural factors in how humans adapt to food, health, and population problems will be the aim of the 1981 symposium. An international task force chaired by Donald J. Ortner, physical anthropologist, National Museum of Natural History, will help design the program. As with earlier symposia, a volume of essays will be published for an audience of scholars and the general public. Simultaneously with the choice of theme, efforts were started to solicit financial support for the symposium and other programs proposed for the next five years.
Seminars, lectures, exhibits, workshops, and other events honoring Albert Einstein are on the calendar for 1979. The Smithsonian’s observance of the Einstein Year is coordinated with that of the Institute in Princeton (where Dr. Einstein did his work in the United States), the National Academy of Sciences, the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, and the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies. As was done for the Copernicus quincentennial in 1973, the Smithsonian supported proposals to the United States Postal Service for commemorative stamps in 1979 paying tribute to Einstein and the International Year of the Child.
In anticipation of the International Year of the Child, the Children’s Area of the North Carolina Folklife Festival was organized for July 1-4, 1978, in Durham, North Carolina, under the director-
222 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 234>>>

ship of George M. Holt and with the cooperation of Ralph and Kate Rinzler, Carla M. Borden, and Wilton S. Dillon of the Smithsonian.
Designated by Secretary Ripley as the Smithsonian liaison with groups around the country and the world planning the International Year of the Child, the Office became further involved owing to the June 1978 appointment of its director, W. S. Dillon, as an honorary commissioner of the U.S. National Commission for the International Year of the Child, chaired by Mrs. Andrew Young. These duties build upon the data and organizational networks forming the legacy of the Smithsonian’s 1977 symposium, “Kin and Communities: The Peopling of America.” The year 1978 also saw the completion of the manuscript for publication by the Smithsonian Press of the “Kin and Communities’”” symposium as well as the production of an audio-cassette of the opening ceremony of the symposium, which features the keynote address of Senator Hubert H. Humphrey. Copies of the cassette and accompanying illustrated booklet were sent to Members of Congress in honor of one of their colleagues who also had served as a Smithsonian Regent during his vice presidency. These presentations were received with expressions of warm appreciation.
While working on interdisciplinary communications within the Smithsonian, the Office also engaged in various cooperative programs with other institutions as part of the Smithsonian’s educational outreach responsibilities. They include the following:
A seminar by Prof. M. S. Voslensky, University of Linz, Austria, October 20, 1977, on “The Influence of the Pugwash Movement and International Exchange on Soviet Decision-Making Regarding SALT Negotiations” (with the International Security Studies Program, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars).
A seminar, November 4, 1977, on “Kinship by Choice” (with the Joint Council on International Children’s Services for North America, Inc.).
A conference, November 17, 1977, on “The Community and Telecommunications” (with the National Commission on Cooperative Arrangements).
A lecture by James Ralph Scales, president of Wake Forest University, February 21, 1978, on “Federal Aid and Independent Institutions of Higher Learning” (with Wake Forest University).
Public Service / 223

<<<Page: 235>>>

peegee reapers eress soadebiaiiiili
e% a
POR-THEING was week ¢

<<<Page: 236>>>

Facing page, top. The Advisory Committee of the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars holds a meeting. Below. A nineteenth-century plaque bearing the Smithsonian’s educational aims has been restored and placed in the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars, which is engaged in both the increase and diffusion of knowledge. The restorer, Gordon Dentry, has simulated the signatures of the eight Smithsonian secretaries on the plaque, which once hung in the Arts and Industries Building. Above. Teachers visit the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden during the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s “Teacher’s Day.”

<<<Page: 237>>>

A symposium in Newport, Rhode Island, May 24-26, 1978, on “From Religious Toleration to Religious Freedom” (with Columbia University, The Redwood Library of Newport, Brown University, and the Rockefeller Foundation).
A workshop, June 9, 1978, on “Science and Technology as Resources for Undergraduate Education” (with the Forum for the Advancement of Students in Science and Technology and the Association of American Colleges).
A seminar, September 7-8, 1978, on American productivity (with the National Center on Productivity and the Quality of Working Life).
In addition, planning was started in 1978 for the resumption of the seminar series, ‘“Voluntarism and the Public Interest in American Society,” in cooperation with the Council on Foundations, the Carnegie Council on Children, and the Federal Interagency Committee on the International Year of the Child.
Ongoing cooperation with the Institute for Psychiatry and Foreign Affairs took the form of planning seminars on the uses of the social and behavioral sciences in analyzing cross-cultural communications problems.
Office of Telecommunications
On December 7, 1977, the Office of Telecommunications was honored with the 1977 CINE Golden Eagle for its film, The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary. The new film, which also earned a Venus Medallion of the 10th Annual Festival of the Americas, has been a United States entry in several international festivals and has been featured in numerous national festivals. It has been broadcast over public television stations, including special showings in Washington, D.C., over WETA-TV. The film is available to organizations and groups through the National Audiovisual Center.
During the year two other Office of Telecommunications films were in production. One film, Reunions—Memories of an American Experience, focuses on certain ‘vital oldsters’” who represent the creative drive and excellence of the American past. The other film, a co-production with the University of Arizona, deals with the
226 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 238>>>

revolutionary new Multiple Mirror Telescope. Also, the Office cooperated in the production of a one-hour documentary on the history of flight, A Place of Dreams, for release on the public broadcasting network.
Among other projects that have moved further along this year is Smithsonian World, the monthly television magazine designed for public broadcasting viewers. Also, in the development stage is a children’s television special prepared by science fiction writer Ray Bradbury.
A number of public service announcements were also produced and distributed nationwide with good results.
In addition, Radio Smithsonian, now in its eighth year, continues strongly with its half-hour weekly program which airs on 65 radio stations with a potential audience of 5 to 6 million. Forging ahead on the radio front is a new venture entitled “Smithsonian Galaxy.” Designed for broadcast throughout the country, this is to be a series of short features, two-to-three minutes each, growing out of Smithsonian activities.
Smithsonian Exposition Books
A new book-publishing arm of the Institution, Smithsonian Exposition Books, was established at the request of the Secretary and the Board of Regents, after a year of existence as the Publishing Task Force. In that year, the staff analyzed the publishing business, the resources of the Instiution, and the appropriateness of the Smithsonian entering the field of general-interest book publishing. Also during that year the staff completed editorial, production, and preliminary marketing work on The Smithsonian Experience. This first book, a kaleidoscopic introduction to the Institution as a whole, was published in October 1977 to considerable critical acclaim and great acceptance by Associates, people from other, outside mailing lists, and bookstores. One year after publication, the first printing of 250,000 copies had been sold out and a second printing of 85,000 was available for distribution.
A second volume, The Magnificent Foragers, concerning the field activities of scientists at the National Museum of Natural History,
Public Service / 227

<<<Page: 239>>>

was published in September 1978 and launched with an initial sale of 50,000 from a printing of 85,000 copies. In addition, at the end of the year. The Smithsonian Book of Invention was about to go on press with a run of 150,000 copies.
Editorial exploration and market research was under way on several projects for the future: a book on the National Zoological Park; a major book on the American land; and an analysis of the potential for a series of children’s books. Also, as requested by the Secretary, the staff of Smithsonian Exposition Books lent advice and assistance to publishing opportunities elsewhere in the Institution.
All of these books, written largely by Smithsonian scholars and other staff members, are designed to take subjects arising from Smithsonian research and exhibition programs, render them into readable, attractive, and entertaining educational books, and by sophisticated marketing techniques (including the national sales staff of W. W. Norton and Company in New York) reach as many people as possible with a distinctly Smithsonian message.
Smithsonian Institution Press
In 1978 the number of books, catalogues, monographs, and miscellaneous publications published by the Smithsonian Institution Press amounted to 148. The number of manuscript pages submitted in fiscal year 1978 was 25,815, an increase of 65 percent over the 15,632 manuscript pages received at the Press the previous fiscal year. In the series publications alone, manuscript pages submitted in 1978 totaled 11,348 compared with 6,621 in 1977. Eighty-two percent of the Press’s activity was devoted to federally funded publications, including such noteworthy titles as ‘“The Noble Buyer:” John Quinn, Patron of the Avant-Garde; Fifty American Faces: From the Collection of the National Portrait Gallery; The International Handbook of Aerospace Awards and Trophies; A Russian/ English, English/Russian Dictionary of Vertebrate Zoology; and The Paintings of Charles Bird King. Significant monographs in the scientific and technological series included Earth Observations from the Apollo-Soyuz Mission (Air and Space); Georg Scheutz and the
228 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 240>>>

First Printing Calculator (History and Technology); Of Cabbages and Kings: Tales from Zinacantan (Anthropology); and the final volume of the monumental six-part work Permian Brachiopods of West Texas, VI (Paleobiology), by G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant.
The Press’s publication of trade books on subjects relevant to Smithsonian collections or research interests is another important and growing part of Smithsonian Institution Press activity. Thirtythree new titles or reprints of important earlier publications will be added to the Press’s sales inventory in calendar year 1978, compared with a 1977 total of nine. Sales income in fiscal year 1978 was up 74 percent over the like period in 1977, in part as a result of the stimulating effect of the new publications, but also in part by virtue of more effective marketing of all titles on the Press list.
Profitable co-publication and co-distribution arrangements have been developed with the World Wildlife Fund, with the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, and with commercial publishers of specialized works both in the United States and in New Zealand. Important and well-received new books in the 1978 Smithsonian Institution Press catalogue include The Smithsonian Collection of Newspaper Comics (co-published with Harry N. Abrams, Inc., and chosen as an alternate by two national book clubs); Charles A. Lindbergh, An American Life; Probing the Earth: Contemporary Land Projects; Black People and Their Culture: Selected Writings from the African Diaspora; Endangered and Threatened Plants of the United States; and The Biology and Conservation of the Callitrichidae. In addition, 1978 saw the publication by the Press of Excalibur III: The Story of a P-51 Mustang, the first in a projected “Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum” series.
Significant progress has been made on the Bicentennial publishing project, Bibliography of the Arts in America. Editing is completed and production under way for the four-volume set that is due to be published in 1979.
During 1978, the Press also moved into an important role of publications advisor and go-between in the development of a series of publishing contracts that several Smithsonian Institution Museum directors wished to arrange with the publishing firm of Harry N. Abrams, Inc. Resultant agreements between Abrams and the
Public Service / 229

<<<Page: 241>>>

Smithsonian Institution will result in the publication by Abrams of handsome and comprehensive books on the National Air and Space Museum, National Museum of Natural History, and the National Museum of History and Technology, on terms very favorable to the Institution.
Early in the year America as Art, written by Dr. Joshua Taylor and published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, was selected by the editors of Choice (the publication of a division of the American Libraries Association) for inclusion on their “Outstanding Academic Books List for 1977.”
Smithsonian Magazine
The magazine is continuing its excellent contribution to the increase and diffusion of knowledge with 1000 editorial pages sent to 1.6 plus million Associates in 1978. Basic is the news of the Institution itself, with a complete representation monthly in “Events at Smithsonian,” highlights in Edwards Park’s “Around the Mall,” and Secretary Ripley’s ‘The view from the castle.”
Notable exhibits were given extended treatment, such as ‘“Splendors of Nature” from the National Museum of Natural History, “More Than Meets the Eye” from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, “Twelve Millennia of Mexican Art” from the Hirshhorn Museum and the National Museum of Natural History, the Smithsonian National Zoo’s tiger operation in Nepal, the tenth anniversaries of the National Collection of Fine Arts and of the National Portrait Gallery, and the imaginative and informative signs that have made all parts of the Institution easy to find.
Using the Institution’s broad concerns as a guide, Smithsonian magazine has given substantial attention—outside its walls—to: the mighty Amazon and the potential threat to its biosphere, the preservation of the unique wild areas of Alaska, the redwoods of California, fragile progress in bringing back the whooping crane, the continuing threat to everyone’s cultural center—Venice. And, in expanding the. parameters of science, such subjects as: solar cells, industry in space, and possibly listening in on Creation with the Very Large Array of radio telescopes.
230 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 242>>>

Fine writers have enriched Smithsonian readers with sometimes erudite, sometimes charming, and always provocative articles: Pulitzer prizewinners Carl Sagan (possible extraterrestrial beings) and Gaylord Shaw (dangerous dams); Lewis Carroll and his suppressed chapter on Alice; Russell Lynes and John Russell with their perceptive interpretations of culture; famous historian Richard B. Morris’s revelation of the fourteen presidents before Washington; and satiric historian Bill Mauldin with his impudent view of the Revolution.
Illustrations, which complement the words of articles, have been supplied by great photographers such as Dmitri Kessel and Alfred Eisenstaedt, not to mention a hitherto unknown Taiwanese, SungYang Lee, with his extraordinary disclosures of insect behavior. Where photographs were not revelatory enough, a group of illustrators, of whom Robert Osborn is the best known, have been assigned.
A dramatic demonstration of the public’s interest in Smithsonian covers was the sale of the double page picture of a Bengal tiger, dozing after a full meal. Priced at just above cost, a poster, enlarged three times from the cover size, sold more than 30,000 copies.
The magazine is fully aware that the advertisements are part of the total package of any given issue, that the revenue keeps the national membership fee low ($12, with only one increase since 1970) and allows the editors to spend more to improve the quality of the articles. Smithsonian is enhanced by the stature of the clients and of the generally high quality of the advertisements themselves.
The magazine membership list provided the basis for successful mailings for the Museum Shops catalogue, Smithsonian Exposition Books, Woodrow Wilson Quarterly, Division of Performing Arts, and for transfers of memberships from the National Associates to the Resident Associates of Washington and the Cooper-Hewitt Associates of New York.
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
Established in 1971, the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center continues to expand and reinforce its role as the central
Public Service / 231

<<<Page: 243>>>

point of contact for the public, Associate members, and Smithsonian staff who seek information and/or resources for assistance.
The receipt of the first annual ‘““Robert A. Brooks Award for Excellence in Administration” by the Center’s Director acknowledged the development and administration of the Institution’s visitor information and volunteer services.
From 10-4 Monday through Sunday, some 46 volunteers a day staffed Information Desks in seven of the Smithsonian’s museums, contributing 33.7 thousand hours of service and achieving an impressive 88 percent of the coverage goal. Through snowstorms and bus strikes, Information Specialists remained undaunted, consistently staffing their posts, evidencing the very special quality and commitment which characterizes this volunteer corps.
To keep pace with many new permanent exhibits opened this year, increased emphasis was placed upon continuing education programs for the Information Specialists. Led by the professional staff, tours and orientation sessions were provided of “Western Civilization” in the National Museum of Natural History, the “Hall of American Maritime Enterprise” in the National Museum of History and Technology, ‘““The Noble Buyer” in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the new East Building of the National Gallery of Art. All were well received, widening the focus of interest and the scope of knowledge of the many volunteers who attended.
National members arrived in droves, availing themselves of Associate orientation amenities, which included, during the peak visitation season, staff representatives in The Court who supplemented the assistance provided in the “Castle.”
More than any other measure of effectiveness, escalation of the Center’s telephone traffic points to the ever-increasing public interest and awareness of the Smithsonian and its activities. Some 300,000 calls necessitated additional lines and volunteer staffing to maintain prompt and efficient service.
In its third year, the Public Inquiry Mail Service recorded a 26 percent increase in volume, averaging 2500 incoming pieces of correspondence per month, with a 50-50 ratio between public and member requests. Updating and expansion of reference files was ongoing. Procedures for responding to frequent inquiries directed to other Smithsonian organizations were inaugurated and now are
232 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 244>>>

being implemented as a routine service. With the addition of one full-time staff member, and with volunteers contributing as research aides and office assistants, mail response was considerably facilitated. In order to function with still greater efficiency and more expediency, a proposal was submitted to revise and expand the Smithsonian Leaflet Program. As in years past, the mail continued to provide an excellent reflection and documentation of the impact of the Institution upon the public and the thinking and interests of the time.
Several innovative programs were introduced. The Group Orientation Program, in its pilot stage, began exploring and experimenting with presentation techniques and variations for special interest and age groups. This much needed program will significantly enhance the Institution’s visitor services while preparing more individuals for the knowledgeable enjoyment and educational benefit of the national collections.
The Center’s “Castle” docents cooperated further with the National Associates Program by offering tours for participants in the new Selected Studies seminars, as well as continuing those tours conducted weekly for Washington “Anytime” weekends.
A 100-percent increase in the number of behind-the-scenes volunteers on file with the Independent Volunteer Placement Service has resulted from the designation of the Center as the Smithsonian’s official point of registration and orientation for volunteers working on special projects in restricted areas. The Service responded to a record number of requests from the professional staff for project assistance, effecting volunteer placements that netted over 34,000 hours of service. Adults remain the major source of reliable involvement, with student assignments to short-term projects increasing. Volunteers are actively involved in the Institutionwide Collection inventory and have participated in the development of many aspects of newly opened exhibits. Working jointly with the Office of Public Affairs, a special issue of Torch (the Institution’s in-house newspaper) was produced which was devoted entirely to Smithsonian volunteers.
As each year passes, Smithsonian museums throughout the Washington area become more indebted to the dedicated corps of volunteers which unselfishly donates time, intellect, and creativity in order to perpetuate the Institution’s reputation for excellence.
Public Service / 233

<<<Page: 245>>>

Smithsonian Associates have an excitingly close view of a grey whale with her offspring at San Ignacio Lagoon, Baja, Mexico. Below. On another expedition Smithsonian Associates traverse the Soviet Union on the famed Trans-Siberian Express.

<<<Page: 246>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
THE MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM of the Smithsonian, first instituted in 1965 with the formation of the Smithsonian Associates, was created essentially to serve Washington area residents. In 1970, the publication of Smithsonian magazine created a national constituency and with it the National Associates Program came into being. Today, then, there are two Smithsonian membership programs— the Resident Associates, providing a wide variety of activities and benefits for some 48,000 Washington area members, and the National Associates, with more than 1,600,000 members across the country. Each is more fully described below.
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
The National Board of the Smithsonian Associates has, since 1970, provided the National Associates Program with leadership and support. Its members comprise a valuable network of informed leaders who are intimately involved with the programs of the Smithsonian Institution as these activities affect communities around the nation. Under the chairmanship of William S. Anderson, the Board met in Washington the autumn of 1977 and in San Antonio, Texas, in the spring of 1978.
Five new members were elected to the Board in 1978. Messrs. Robert H. B. Baldwin, Nicholas F. Brady, E. Mandell deWindt, James E. Elkins, and David E. Skinner.

<<<Page: 247>>>

Other members of the Board are: William S. Anderson, Chairman; Mr. Robert O. Anderson; Mr. Harry Hood Bassett; Mr. Henry C. Beck; Mr. Keith S. Brown; Mr. Thomas M. Evans; Mr. Charles T. Fisher III; Ms. Carol P. Guyer; Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr.; Mr. Henry J. Heinz II; The Honorable John N. Irwin II; Mrs. Robert A. Magowan; Mrs. Robert S. McNamara; The Honorable George C. McGhee; Mr. Scott McVay; Dr. Ruben F. Mettler; Mr. John R. Norton III; Mr. Charles M. Pigott; Mr. George S. Pillsbury; Mr. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.; and Mr. James O. Wright.
Smithsonian National Associate Program
In Secretary Ripley’s words’ an Associate ‘‘(has) joined a special community . . . Someone who has become part of a rigorous educational and cultural force everywhere in the land.” This national dynamism was observed again and again in 1978 as Associates participated in activities planned for members, and as the Institution continued to expand its commitment to public education and scholarship through membership programs.
Since 1970 and the appearance of Smithsonian magazine, programs have been developed which allow active participation in the life of the Smithsonian without regard to geographical location. These National Associate Programs include, Contributing Membership, Regional Events, Selected Studies, and the Travel Program. These programs are dedicated to the proposition that learning should be an enjoyable lifelong pursuit for everyone and that the national museums and research organization of the Smithsonian Institution can make a valuable contribution to this learning process.
The Contributing Membership Program offers four levels of annual support to National and Resident Associates: Supporting ($50); Donor ($100); Sustaining ($500); and James Smithson Society ($1,000 and above). With a renewal rate of 90 percent, the
' Smithsonian, September 1976, page 6.
236 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 248>>>

membership provides a steady income for Smithsonian projects in education and research.
Since 1975, when Contributing Membership became part of the National Associate Program, the major objective has been to increase the number of contributors outside the Washington area. Through a series of mailings to National Associates, membership expanded from 650 in 1975 to 2900 in 1978. Contributing Members living outside the Washington area receive complimentary tickets to Regional Events, advance notice of Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sires) exhibitions, and two major Smithsonian publications each year.
Locally, the Program has focused on the $100 Donor level. With the assistance of the Women’s Committee and the Austrian Embassy, the Program sponsored a white tie Viennese Waltz in the Renwick Gallery’s Grand Salon to honor the Donor members. As a result of this and other special events, the $100 membership increased from 250 to 600 during 1978.
The Contributing Membership participated in two major Washington cultural events in 1978. As part of ‘Animal in Art” activities, the Contributing Membership worked with the National Museum of Natural History to present a film viewing and exhibition reception of Kjell Sandved’s work. After opening in Washington, the exhibition toured several cities as part of the Regional Events of the National Associate Program. To celebrate the opening of the National Gallery’s East Building, the Program sponsored the first membership event in the new building: a private viewing of ‘The Splendor of Dresden: Five Centuries of Art Collecting,” followed by a reception in the new study center.
The James Smithson Society, established in 1977, represents the highest order of Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian Associates. Annual Members are individuals who make unrestricted contributions of $1,000 or more in a given year. Life Members are those who give $25,000 or more, in either monetary donations or additions to the collections.
In its second year, the Smithson Society membership increased 25 percent in Annual Members to 119 and 244 percent in Life Members who now number 62. Contributions from the Annual Members made possible three significant acquisitions. The National Portrait Gallery acquired the important oil portrait of Dr.
Membership and Development / 237

<<<Page: 249>>>

John Morgan by Angelica Kauffman (1764). The Max Beckmann bronze sculpture Adam and Eve (1936) was added to the collection of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the National Museum of Natural History was able to carry out improvements and refurbishments in its popular Discovery Room.
Forty-four new Life Members’ gifts represented a wide range of splendid objects and collections given to eight Smithsonian bureaus, among them sculptures, paintings, drawings, portraits, minerals, gems, jewelry, porcelains, and scientific equipment.
The Smithsonian Institution acknowledges with deep gratitude the generous support of the James Smithson Society’s 1978 Annual Members, Life Members, and the Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates, all of whose names are listed in Appendix 8.
Responding to the enthusiasm generated by Smithsonian magazine, the Regional Events, established in 1974, offer Associates additional educational experiences in their home communities. A series of events—highlighting current Smithsonian research and complementing local museum interests—travels to selected cities across the country. During 1978, programs of up to two weeks in length were presented at co-sponsoring museums in Honolulu, Houston, Raleigh, Louisville, Indianapolis, Dayton, and Phoenix. Approximately 131,000 Associates and local museum members received invitations. More than 170 lectures, performances, and workshops were offered, for which 32,000 tickets were requested.
In developing educational activities, the Regional Events Program has sought to strengthen a sense of cooperation between the Smithsonian and local museums by providing programs of mutual interests, tailored to community needs. Focusing on the unique cultural and natural characteristics of the Hawaiian Islands, the Honolulu program included lectures on volcano watching and a specially designed exhibition of Oceanic artifacts from the Smithsonian collection. In Dayton, lectures on paper conservation and paper as an art medium complemented an ongoing museum exhibition.
Local museums responded to the cooperative venture in a variety of ways. In Raleigh, the State of North Carolina Department of
238 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 250>>>

Cultural Resources opened the Smithsonian Events with an indoor
“street fair,’ complete with banners, balloon, and a popcorn vendor. Co-sponsoring organizations commented that the Regional Events brought new faces from rarely touched segments of the population to museum activities. When active membership campaigns were launched during the series of events, co-sponsors noted a significant increase in new members.
During 1978, the Regional Events increased the total number of programs and focused on events for family audiences. Children were joined by their parents at special young people’s lectures on geology and space colonization. The Smithsonian Chamber Players presented afternoon programs designed to introduce young listeners to Baroque music. Families responded enthusiastically to Kjell Sandved’s film on animal motility and Francis Greenwell’s presentation on nocturnal animals. Both staff members represented the National Museum of Natural History. Ann Bay, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, joined local education officers in Indianapolis for a public panel on the museums’ roles in providing meaningful educational alternatives for children. As in the past three years, the Regional Events Program developed workshops, exhibition and handout materials for many of the programs, intended to enhance the educational experience for all participants.
Selected Studies, a new membership benefit, was made available to National Associates for the first time during 1978. The office was created in response to requests from Associate members nationwide, who had participated in the activities of the Regional Events Program and in the thematic weekends in Washington, D.C., designed by the Associates Travel Program. These Associates were interested in additional opportunities to complete longer, more intensive study in a variety of subjects in the nation’s capital.
Selected Studies’ seminars provide the environment for Associates to pursue knowledge for their own stimulation, enrichment, or professional advancement by broadening an appreciation and understanding of the arts, sciences, and humanities.
Each seminar is designed for groups of thirty participants and includes lectures, films, special behind-the-scenes tours, and field trips at the Smithsonian and in the greater Washington area. More
Membership and Development / 239

<<<Page: 251>>>

ee ae
54 ;

<<<Page: 252>>>

Facing page, top. Holding a rock specimen from the Smithsonian collections, Dr. Richard Fiske, geologist, National Museum of Natural History, answers questions after his “Geology for Young People” lecture at the Heard Museum in Phoenix, Arizona. Dr. Fiske’s lecture was part of a two-week series of exhibitions, workshops, and lectures produced by the Smithsonian National Associate Program in Phoenix in May 1978. Facing page, bottom. Joan Danziger (leaning over table on left), an artist from Washington, D.C., representing the Regional Events Program, leads papier-maché construction workshops for children at The Dayton Art Institute in April 1978; these workshops were co-sponsored locally by The Dayton Art Institute, with the assistance of the Mead Paper Corporation. Above. Ambassador and Mrs. Robert M. McKinney received their James Smithson Society medal from National Board of the Smithsonian Associates Chairman, Mr. William S. Anderson.

<<<Page: 253>>>

social aspects include a welcoming reception and tour of the historic Smithsonian “Castle,” breakfast each morning in the Associates Court, cultural activities in the free evenings, and a farewell luncheon with the faculty and staff. Faculty is drawn from many sources, including Smithsonian research, scientific, and professional staff in addition to visiting scholars and distinguished experts from outside the Institution.
The seminars commenced in June with “Horticulture: A Practical Approach to Eighteenth-Twentieth Century Gardening.” In addition to careful scrutiny of the Smithsonian grounds and greenhouses, the week’s events included lectures on topics ranging from colonial gardening to the latest plant introduction programs at the United States Department of Agriculture and visits to the numerous public and private gardens and botanical research facilities in the greater Washington area. This week was followed by two Selected Studies seminars: ““A Look at Modern Sculpture,” with lectures and tours of the collection given by the staff of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and “A Cultural History of China,” which included special tours and activities at the Freer Gallery of Art.
In September, “A Grand Tour of the Solar System” drew upon the eminent staff of the National Air and Space Administration and Smithsonian experts to offer participants the chance to learn about the latest information available from the space exploration programs and to examine some prospects for the future. Participants enjoyed the field trips to the National Air and Space Museum, the National Museum of Natural History, Goddard Space Flight Center, and the United States Naval Observatory. A week later thirty Associates arrived to study “Connoisseurship of American Antique Furniture, 1650-1840” and to visit the Museum of History and Technology, as well as the Diplomatic Reception Rooms of the Department of State, the Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum, and the Lindens—the oldest private home in Washington.
The response to the initial Selected Studies offerings was enthusiastic. Participants were drawn from many parts of the United States and Canada and their backgrounds ranged from interested novices to life-long buffs and professionals in the various fields being studied.
242 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 254>>>

The Associates Travel Program designs and administers a variety of educational tours for the National Associate members and for other organizations within the Smithsonian Institution. Planned for participants who convene from all parts of the United States, travel experiences made available by the Program are divided into three categories: Weekends on the Mall, Domestic Study Tours, and Foreign Charter Tours.
Weekends on the Mall vary from the lightly structured Washington “Anytime” Weekend executed in cooperation with the Visitors Information and Associates’ Reception Center to the in-depth studies of a single museum or department in cooperation with the curatorial staff or education departments. The Smithsonian Sampler Weekend was made available for the first time during 1978, through the Business Management Office, Mail Order Division. An immediate success, each Sampler Weekend was attended by fifty Associates who were given an opportunity to visit a variety of the Institution’s collections and to hear specially prepared lectures by curators and other museum scholars.
Domestic Study Tours provide unusual learning experiences for small groups in many parts of the United States, and are as divergent as a program planned on the pioneer history of Utah to a tour focusing on the early architecture of Alabama. Each domestic group is accompanied by a study leader and a Smithsonian staff representative. During 1978, the domestic program cooperated with a number of educational organizations to present unique study opportunities at the Teton Science School, Yosemite Institute, and Northwestern University’s Archeological Program.
Again in 1978, Foreign Charter Tours answered a need for quality educational and culturally oriented tours at a modest cost. Each charter tour provides educational travel opportunities for 172 members. The most popular destination continues to be the Soviet Union, with the ninth charter since 1975 going to Russia during this year. Another charter group traveled the breadth of the Soviet Union via the Siberian Express, starting in Nahodka and ending in Moscow. Other destinations included Kenya, where participants met with Cynthia Moss and other wildlife researchers in the game parks; Paris and Provence which focused on the art and architecture of Paris as well as the charm of the countryside; and Guatemala which featured visits to remote archeological sites.
Membership and Development / 243

<<<Page: 255>>>

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program was established in 1965 by Secretary Ripley to provide residents of the greater Washington area the opportunity to participate actively in the life of the Institution. The Program, which grew and flourished under the aegis of the Office of Public Service during its formative years, seeks to achieve this goal through an extensive range of quality educational activities, consonant with the exhibitions, collections, and research of the Smithsonian: courses in the arts, sciences, humanities, and studio arts; study tours; lectures and seminars; film series; exhibition previews; outdoor festivals; art poster projects; performing arts events; and a wide variety of young people’s and family activities. All programs are conducted by Smithsonian and visiting scholars.
The Program’s 1978 focus was to maintain the high calibre of its educational offerings while continuing to ensure responsive and responsible service to members. Although major membership growth was not sought, over 12,000 new members joined and the retention rate climbed to 79 percent, bringing the overall membership to 48,500 (as compared with 44,000 at the end of fiscal year 1977), representing more than 120,000 individuals in the greater Washington area. The biennial random sampling of members indicates that they are well educated, that the majority are between ‘the ages of 26 and 45, and that they are increasingly active in Resident Associate activities.
During the course of the year several new membership benefits were added, including a 10-percent discount on most activity fees for Resident Associates 60 years and over, and a special service to furnish the hearing impaired with simultaneous translation upon request.
The year was distinguished by projects designed to enhance knowledge of the Smithsonian bureaus and appreciation of their exhibitions, research, and curatorial expertise. Such projects included an all-day seminar with the National Collection of Fine Arts, exploring the concept of the “Renaissance in American Art;” an all-day seminar with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden related to the exhibition The Noble Buyer; and an eightweek course on “The Rise and Grandeur of Western Civilization,”
244 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 256>>>

offered in conjunction with the opening of a new exhibition hall at the National Museum of Natural History. Member previews were offered for the Kenneth Noland exhibition at the Hirshhorn and The Time of Our Lives show at the National Portrait Gallery. Some 4600 members attended lectures and walk-throughs of the National Gallery of Art’s new East Building. An intensive behind-the-scenes tour of the National Museum of History and Technology’s permanent collections was a highlight of the year with 964 individuals attending. Each month at least one Smithsonian curator is scheduled to lecture on a particular area of expertise relating to Institutional resources.
The Resident Associate Program also plays a significant role in the District of Columbia area, cooperating closely with community organizations and continuing its effort to be accessible to a wider range of age, interest, and ethnic groups. Young Associate scholarships enabled over 160 inner city youngsters from 39 District of Columbia schools to participate tuition-free in classes, and, for the first time, the Program also awarded 69 tuition-free scholarships to adults, working with the Office of Adult Education and the Office of Continuing Education of the D.C. Public Schools. Another major initiative was the increase in programming especially geared to the interests of ethnic groups not previously affiliated.
In fiscal year 1978, the Program presented 744 activities; these were attended by 100,000 individuals.
Invaluable assistance is rendered to the Resident Associate Program by 400 volunteers who on a regular basis assist at special events, monitor classes and tours, and perform office duties.
Membership and Development / 245

<<<Page: 257>>>

ee |
dein a
A view of the inner court of the Freer Gallery of Art. Photo: James Hayden.

<<<Page: 258>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
On MAY 24, 1978, MICHAEL COLLINS, Director of the National Air and Space Museum, was appointed to the position of Under Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The Under Secretary serves as the principal assistant to and associate of the Secretary in managing the Institution in accordance with its basic charter (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), the policies and limitations established by the Congress, and policies and procedures approved by the Board of Regents.
Smithsonian Year 1977 summarized the results of reviews of the Institution’s operations conducted by the General Accounting Office (Gao) and by the Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents. Recommendations resulting from those reviews dealt largely with actions to improve the accountability of the Smithsonian to the Congress and to strengthen its internal management. In response to the GAo recommendations of March 31, 1977, a number of steps have been taken by the Board of Regents and the Secretary and staff of the Institution over the past year. Alternative administrative procedures have been developed for the research and education programs previously administered by the Smithsonian Research Foundation; no further use of the Foundation is being made. The matter of the future status of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc., including its organizational placement, was referred to the Office of Management and Budget (oms) where it was taken up by the President’s Reorganization Project. The Institution felt that it could not take unilateral

<<<Page: 259>>>

action to dissolve the Exchange from its present corporate status given its history and purpose. By the end of fiscal year 1978, the oms and the Congress had agreed to transfer the Exchange to the Department of Commerce in fiscal year 1979 as a more appropriate affiliation, given that Department’s other responsibilities for the management of technical data.
Concerning other matters raised by the Gao, the Institution has strengthened its procedures for providing full information to the oms and the Congress on the sources and expenditures of grant, contract, and trust funds at the time that federal budgets are submitted. Policy statements on the use of federal and trust funds have been prepared and the Appropriations Committees have developed and issued revised reprogramming procedures for all agencies to allow a systematic approach to making necessary adjustments during the year to congressionally approved amounts for individual organization units or projects.
Actions are well along on all the recommendations in the Regents’ Audit and Review Committee report of September 1, 1977, which was accepted by the full Board of Regents at its September 27, 1977, meeting. A policy of seeking specific authorizations for all significant new programs and projects involving the use of federal funds is in effect. Thanks to the participation and cooperation of the Institution’s staff at all levels, a five-year perspective on the Institution’s operations, covering the period 1980-1984, was prepared for review by the Board of Regents at its September 25, 1978, meeting. When approved, it will be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, the Congress, and others. This plan will be updated annually and should be useful for communications and management purposes. As recommended, a procedure has been placed in effect for the review by the Regents or their Executive Committee of any research awards which might be perceived by the Congress or the public as inappropriate.
Another recommendation stemming from the Regents’ review has resulted in a comprehensive inventory and description of programs and activities with organization charts, which will provide useful background information in connection with the five-year perspective. This document was approved by the Board of Regents at its May 5, 1978, meeting and subsequently was prepared for distribution to recipients of the perspective and others. Other rec-
248 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 260>>>

ommendations have led to the appointment of Michael Collins to the permanent position of Under Secretary (referred to above) and to the phased addition of staff to strengthen the internal audit function.
Subsequent to the GAo review and while the Audit and Review Committee study was in progress, the Appropriations Committee of the United States House of Representatives decided that a further examination of the Institution’s statutory authority, accountability to Congress, and policies and practices in administering and funding programs would provide useful information to the Committee and to the Congress. This examination, conducted by the Committee’s Surveys and Investigations Staff, was documented in a report dated December 20, 1977. Several recommendations emerged from the review. The Institution prepared a detailed response to these and other matters contained in the Investigation Staff’s report.
The report recommended that the Committee consider legislation or specific appropriations language defining the status of the Smithsonian Institution as a federal instrumentality with accountability, as a federal agency, for all funds, both federal and trust, and defining the status of trust-fund employees with respect to coverage by federal-employee benefit programs. The Institution’s reply stressed its full accountability as a federal establishment to the Congress for all funds. Such accountability will be reinforced by implementation of the recommendations in the Gao and Audit and Review Committee reports, including the development of the five-year program perspective and the provision of full budget information on the sources and applications of funds (with special emphasis on those cases where proposed uses of trust funds could result in the need for appropriations). The Institution felt that a problem could result from actions that would change the status of the Institution’s trust-fund employees given the separate personnel management system under which these employees now work, the benefits that they have accrued, and the fact that many of the trustfund employees are assigned to the auxiliary activities.
It was further recommended by the Investigation Staff that the Smithsonian Institution submit future federal appropriation requests with comparative trust fund availability projections on a side-by-side basis for the Committee’s consideration in determin-
Administration / 249

<<<Page: 261>>>

ing federal funding levels. For several years, the Institution has provided, as an appendix to the federal budget justification to the Congress, bureau-by-bureau information on comparative appropriations, federal grants and contracts, and trust fund expenditures for the preceding fiscal year. Recognizing, however, that these historical data were of limited help for a review of the proposed federal budget, the Smithsonian had already provided trust fund projections to the Congress prior to receiving this recommendation. This information will be updated each year and, with the five-year outlook, should afford the basis for a full review of the Smithsonian’s programs and resource requirements.
The Investigation Staff made two recommendations that they felt would strengthen internal management and congressional oversight. They recommended that the Board of Regents publish a set of bylaws that contains specific thresholds for management discretion in Smithsonian Institution program and project initiation, reprogramming of trust funds from activities specified in the budget, establishment of a definitive program funding source policy and a mechanism for the Regents’ approval of organizational change. It was further suggested that the bylaws specify the authorities vested in the Executive Committee as well as in the full Board of Regents. This staff also recommended that the appointment of members of the Board of Regents be limited to twelve years, or two consecutive terms, to increase Regent participation and provide additional periodic policy and program stimulation. At its September 25, 1978, meeting, the Board of Regents gave preliminary consideration to the matter of bylaws.
As a final recommendation, the Investigation Staff suggested that the Committee consider authorizing the Smithsonian Institution to continue to compete as a “private” educational activity for grants and contracts from federal, state, local, and private organizations, and authorizing a research grant award program with specified internal and external peer review to encourage and stimulate the continued research endeavors of the Institution. The Smithsonian’s response noted that, except for limitations recently established by the Appropriations Committees (i.e., seeking grants from the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities), the Institution has authority to compete for many grants and con-
250 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 262>>>

tracts. The Smithsonian strongly concurred with the recommendation for a competitive research awards program.
As stated a year ago, this period of reviews of the Institution’s policies and operations has been most helpful. It has afforded opportunities to examine and strengthen procedures. The explanations that have been provided the Congress have helped to clarify an understanding of the nature of the Smithsonian. Efforts will continue to keep the oms and the Congress fully informed of activities and plans.
During the year, consideration was given to reassigning certain administrative units within the Smithsonian organization in order to provide for a more equitable span of responsibility. This review resulted in transferring the Office of Personnel Administration, the Office of Equal Opportunity, and the Management Analysis Office from the Director of Support Activities to the Assistant Secretary for Administration.
Administrative Activities
The Office of Personnel Administration began work on a Federal Personnel Handbook that will contain policies and procedures applicable to the Institution’s civil service employees. Several sections of this handbook were issued for use. Similarly, work continued on the development of a companion Trust-Fund Personnel Handbook.
Upward Mobility, handicapped, employment, and contract compliance programs were strengthened by the Office of Equal Opportunity. Minority and women employment slightly improved their relative positions with regard to total employment. The Civil Service Commission gave complimentary approval to the Institution’s affirmative action program for the handicapped. The Office of Equal Opportunity also organized the Smithsonian’s wellreceived participation in the National Women’s Conference in Houston, Texas, as part of the International Women’s Year.
In the Management Analysis Office, significant progress was made on the plan to prepare a series of administrative handbooks. Work continued on a comprehensive inventory of forms.
Administration / 251

<<<Page: 263>>>

Financial Management Activities
As chief financial officer, the Treasurer has primary responsibility for oversight and administration of the financial assets of the Institution. Such responsibility includes the budgeting and accounting of federal appropriations, private gifts, grants and contracts, and auxiliary activities. A report on the finances of the Institution for the past year can be found in the Statement by the Secretary.
Working closely with the Investment Policy Committee of the Board of Regents, the Treasurer oversees the management of the endowment funds of the Institution by four professional advisory firms. The Investment Accounting Division assists the Treasurer with monitoring of the endowments and is also responsible for the short-term investment of current funds in excess of immediate operating needs. This is accomplished through daily cash management and forecasting procedures to insure the highest possible return. During fiscal year 1978, the Division coordinated the replacement of two of the Institution’s three investment managers with three firms evidencing superior performance records.
The Office of Programming and Budget works closely with all operating and managerial levels in the development and justification of budgets to the President’s Office of Management and Budget and to the Congress. In the second zero-base budget submission prepared for the Office of Management and Budget, the redirection of base funds to meet Institutional priorities was once again an important element. Estimates of grant, contract, and trust funds are now submitted along with the Institution’s federal budget request in order to permit comprehensive review and improved understanding of the Institution’s total resources. During the year, expenditures and staffing plans for some seventy organization units were closely monitored in relation to their established budgets.
The Accounting Office continued refinement of the new financial accounting system initiated in fiscal year 1977. Major improvements in fiscal year 1978 included the automated production of daily fund balances and the development of procedures permitting off-site units to enter financial transactions into the Washington computerized accounting records on a daily basis. Attention also was focused on improving the financial operations of Institutional business activities. Comprehensive internal reviews of accounting
252 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 264>>>

controls were performed at selected business activities, and monthly meetings of the Institution’s business managers were organized to coordinate common functions such as multiple-line orders, credit card management, and lockbox deposits.
The Grants and Insurance Administration Division, in addition to its administration of grant and contract awards to the Institution, made significant progress in the area of risk management and insurance. Risk management surveys of a number of areas were initiated to minimize potential losses. Additional automation and closer coordination with bureau registrars were emphasized in administration of the Institution’s unique fine arts insurance policy.
With steadily expanding public awareness of Institutional activities, it is also experiencing continuous growth in the operations and revenues of its auxiliary activities. Innovative, award-winning displays in the Institution’s museum shops and new emphasis in such popular areas as craft items contributed to a 15-percent increase in museum sales in fiscal year 1978. In addition, museums throughout the United States benefited from a highly acclaimed seminar for museum shop managers held at the Smithsonian.
Fiscal year 1978 also saw the continued rapid growth of the Mail Order Division. Sales from the 1977 fall catalogue were excellent and a favorable response was received to the test mailing of a sixteen-page spring catalogue. The 1978 fall catalogue featured a wide range of gift selections created through the Product Development Program. These included such items as glass reproductions, an engagement calendar, a variety of silver and pewter items, jewelry reproductions, and needlework kits. Increased mail order sales required a move of the order entry and shipping operation to a large modern facility in suburban Virginia with ample space to allow for more efficient current operation as well as future expansion. A newly created customer service division will further enhance the Institution’s ability to provide prompt, quality service to its customers.
The Belmont Conference Center, a 240-year-old manor house, with 365 surrounding acres of lawns, forests, and fields, located between the District of Columbia and Baltimore near Interstate 95, offers an attractive, secluded, conference site for the needs of small groups that require a location unencumbered by the normal intrusions associated with offices. Belmont can accommodate twenty-five
Administration / 253

<<<Page: 265>>>

in-house residents, with facilities for ten to twelve additional guests, speakers, or observers for meals and meeting sessions. Of the eighty or so meetings that Belmont hosts in a year, approximately 60 percent are from federally-funded agencies; the balance includes those from foundations, universities, and other philanthropic organizations as well as private industry.
Support Activities
During the past year, significant improvements were made to provide timely, administrative support for the Institution; some highlights follow.
The Office of Computer Services completed the conversion of all programs to the new computer system installed during 1977. With the greater capabilities now possible, new applications and time-saving techniques are being introduced in the areas of collections management, research, and administration.
The International Exchange Service (1Es) contracted with the Government Printing Office (Gro) for the distribution of United States Government publications for the benefit of the Library of Congress. Legislation was introduced in the 95th Congress to transfer this responsibility officially to Gro, but it was not enacted; however, it is expected to be reintroduced in the 96th Congress. If authorized, the transfer will enable 1&s to devote more time to its original mission—the exchange of publications between educational institutions, scientific, literary and other professional societies, museums, libraries, and individuals.
The Office of Plant Services (OPlantS) continued to make progress toward energy conservation. The computerized power management system has been installed in all non-art museum buildings on the Mall; this system is designed to reduce utilities consumption and demand, while maintaining temperature and humidity conditions required for the protection of the Institution’s collections. The installation of the equipment monitoring system began; when completed toward the end of 1979, this system will enable OPlantS to monitor the operation of vital mechanical equipment instantaneously, twenty-four hours a day. Additionally, the quality of audiovisual support for the Institution improved significantly with the upgrading of sound, lighting, and projection equipment.
254 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 266>>>

The Office of Printing and Photographic Services (oprs) won the Professional Photographers of America’s “Industrial Photographic Department of the Year Competition” in the public relations category. OPPS continues to emphasize the quality and variety of its services for the Institution and the general public. The increasingly popular Smithsonian Slide Series continues steady growth; this Series is based on Smithsonian collections and includes individual sets of slides along thematic lines accompanied by brochures and, in some cases, audio cassettes.
During fiscal year 1978, the Office of Facilities Planning and Engineering Services emphasized a greater volume of professional architectural-engineering services while developing more in-depth management systems. As a result, the quantity and quality of the work effort was significantly improved as compared with prior years, particularly in the areas of contract administration, engineering capabilities, and planning functions.
The Office of Protection Services increased its support of collections management programs within the Institution. Particular attention was directed to the National Museum of Natural History and the National Museum of History and Technology—the Smithsonian museums with the largest collections. Aggressive safety inspection and accident prevention programs continued, with an increased number of occupational safety and health surveys and fire prevention inspections. Additionally, a fire protection master planning program has been initiated, aimed at identifying weaknesses and programming improvements.
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities
The Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council began long-range planning for career-oriented training during fiscal year 1978. Council members participated in seminars on career development, personnel administration, labor-management relations, and equal employment opportunity counseling; these seminars were sponsored by various organizations within and outside the Smithsonian, including the National Conference on Women, held in Houston, Texas, and the Federally Employed Women’s Conference, held in Denver, Colorado. The Council also sponsored six programs on women’s safety and a five-part series on retirement.
Administration / 255

<<<Page: 267>>>

Wilson Center Director James H. Billington with First Lady Rosalynn Carter at conference on “Latin America, The United States and the World of the 1980's” held in the Wilson Center Library. This conference, organized by the Center’s’ Latin American Program under Dr. Abraham F. Lowenthal, was intended to help senior editors of U.S. newspapers and monthly publications improve their understanding of key issues in inter-American relations. As is the case with many sessions at the Center, its purpose was to relate the world of affairs with the world of ideas. Participants in the two-day meeting included Enrique Iglesias, Executive Secretary, Economic Commission for Latin America, United Nations; Rodrigo Botero, publisher of Estrategia in Bogota; Foreign Minister Antonio Azaredo da Silveira of Brazil; as well as Center fellows, scholars from the United States and Latin America, U.S. Government officials, editors, and reporters. Among the highlights of the conference was a session with President Carter at the White House.

<<<Page: 268>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
THE WILSON CENTER Is—together with the Kennedy Center and the National Gallery—one of three institutions created by the Congress within the Smithsonian Institution in Washington to perform a national mission with mixed trust/public funding under a board appointed by the President of the United States. While the Kennedy Center and National Gallery are showcases for quality in the performing and visual arts respectively, The Wilson Center is an active workshop and switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels. It has gained widespread recognition for the work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of Washington, for its many meetings bringing together the world of affairs and the world of ideas, and for a democratic openness, unique among the world’s great institutes of advanced study.
Fellows are brought in through annual international competition involving ever-increasing numbers of applicants from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines, states, and nations. A broad spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a nonspecialized national audience through the Wilson Quarterly, which already has more subscribers than any other scholarly quarterly in the English-speaking world.
The Center seeks to render a service to this country and to the Washington community by throwing its core fellowship program open to all comers, both American and foreign. The Center coordinates, in effect, an annual inventory of creative scholarship through-

<<<Page: 269>>>

out the world. Fellows are selected for the promise, importance, and appropriateness of their projects on the recommendation of broadly-based academic panels outside the Center. Nevertheless, the Center does have special areas of emphasis that provide focus without the rigidities of university departments and of a tenured faculty. Thus, the Center chooses fellows competitively for limited periods, not only in its broadly inclusive general divisions of Social, Political, Historical, or Cultural Studies but also for special programs in Russian and Soviet Studies (The Kennan Institute), Latin American Studies, and International Security and Environmental Studies. Each program is headed by a scholar on the staff.
Following its mandate to symbolize and strengthen the fruitful relation between the world of learning and the world of practical affairs, the Center sponsors conferences and seminars on topics of special current interest to both worlds. In 1978, for example, three core seminars, each meeting over a period of several months, brought scholars and policymakers together to discuss (1) the United States and the Caribbean; (2) a current assessment of the Soviet Union today (chaired by former Ambassador George Kennan), and (3) United States policy toward the two Koreas. In each case, the seminars produced papers or books that are to be widely circulated to interested persons.
As usual, the Center’s fellows come from every corner of the globe and from all sections of the United States. Among its 1978 fellows have been: Japan’s former ambassador to Peking, Heishiro Ogawa; Polish historian Bronislaw Geremek; Professor John Ely of Harvard Law School; journalist and founder of Ms. Magazine Gloria Steinem; political scientist Manakkal Venkataramani of India; author and journalist Robert Donovan; historian Alexander Dallin of Stanford University; sociologist Simon Schwartzman of Brazil; and historian Marcus Cunliffe, of Sussex University, England. The sum of this broad mixing of scholarly interest and life experience is greater than the total of its parts; the collegial atmosphere provides opportunity for communication and learning which crosses cultural, national, and disciplinary boundaries for the enrichment of all.
258 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 270>>>

Francis B. Sayre, Jr. (center), grandson of Woodrow Wilson and former Dean of the Washington Cathedral, was recently appointed Associate Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. He is shown here with George Packard, Deputy Director (left) and Charles F. Barber, Advisory Council Member.

<<<Page: 271>>>

Gelsey Kirkland and Mikhail Baryshnikov in the world premiere of Baryshnikov’s production of Don Quixote (or Kitri’s Wedding) at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, March 1978. Photo: Richard Braaten.

<<<Page: 272>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
POnN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
THe JoHN F. KENNEDY CENTER for the Performing Arts is unique in concept and mandate—established by Act of Congress in 1958 to serve as this country’s National Cultural Center for the performing arts and designated in 1964 as a living memorial to President Kennedy. Under the John F. Kennedy Center Act, the Center is called upon to:
1. Present classical and contemporary music, drama, dance and poetry from the United States and abroad;
2. Present lectures and other programs;
3. Develop programs for children, youth and the elderly, specifically for their participation, education, and recreation; and
4. Provide facilities for civic activities.
Of necessity, the Center’s first years of operation, following its opening in 1971, were devoted primarily to organizing quality programming for its three main stages and to developing the audiences and financial base that would ensure its viability as a major new arts facility. Its success may be measured by the fact that, since 1971, more than 7000 performances have been presented to a total audience of nearly 11 million.
Recently, the Center has sought to respond more fully to its public service role by developing and expanding programs for the public at large and specifically for children, young people, and minorities. In doing so, it is also moving to fulfill its mandate as a national institution by bringing to Washington exemplary perform-

<<<Page: 273>>>

ing arts groups from around the United States and, in turn, by sending programs into all parts of the country.
In seven years, the Center has become recognized as one of the world’s most active arts institutions, operating seven days a week, 365 days a year. As a living memorial, it has welcomed more than 30 million patrons and visitors. It is an expression of this country’s commitment to the arts and concern for the quality of the lives of its citizens. It is dedicated not only to presenting the best of the performing arts of our present and past but to fostering the new works, new talent, and new audiences that will help ensure the vitality of the nation’s performing arts in decades to come.
Performing Arts Programming
During the 1977-1978 season, 1036 performances were presented in the Opera House, Concert Hall, and Eisenhower Theater, and audience attendance exceeded 1.6 million. In addition, the American Film Institute presented more than 800 films to an audience of 100,000 in the American Film Institute (ar1) Theater.
During 1977-1978, 330,000 theatergoers attended 572 performances of 14 productions. The drama season included Arnold Wesker’s The Merchant; Eugene O’Neill’s A Touch of the Poet, directed by Jose Quintero and starring Jason Robards, Geraldine Fitzgerald and Milo O’Shea; First Monday in October, by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee, starring Henry Fonda and Jane Alexander; Richard Wesley’s The Mighty Gents; Samuel Taylor’s Gracious Living, with Tammy Grimes, Paul Hecht, and Patricia Routledge; Dracula, starring Raul Julia; the American premiere of Players, by Australian playwright David Williamson; and Frederick Lonsdale’s The Last of Mrs. Cheyney, starring Deborah Kerr.
In September 1978, the Center presented Every Good Boy Deserves Favor, a play for actors and orchestra, by Tom Stoppard and Andre Previn. Staged in the Concert Hall, the production starred John Wood and Eli Wallach and involved the participation of the entire Pittsburgh Symphony, under the direction of Mr. Previn.
262 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 274>>>

The season’s musicals included Michael Bennett’s A Chorus Line: Timbuktu, by Luther Davis, Robert Wright, and George Forrest, starring Eartha Kitt and Melba Moore; The Wiz, by William F. Brown and Charlie Smalls; a revival of George and Ira Gershwin’s Oh, Kay!, with Jack Weston and Jane Summerhays; and Platinum, by Will Holt, Bruce Vilanch, and Gary William Friedman, starring Alexis Smith.
Since 1971, 121 theatrical productions have been presented at the Center. Of these, 78 have been produced, co-produced, or made possible by the Center itself.
The Center presented 104 performances of ballet by the American Ballet Theatre, the New York City Ballet, the Ballet Nacional de Cuba, and the London Festival Ballet during the 1977-1978 season.
American Ballet Theatre (apr), the Center’s official company, appeared in two engagements totaling seven weeks. Highlights included the world premieres of Glen Tetley’s Sphinx and Mikhail Baryshnikov’s Don Quixote (or Kitri’s Wedding), with Baryshnikov as Don Basil, Gelsey Kirkland as Kitri, and Alexander Minz as Don Quixote. Don Quixote followed ast’s Nutcracker (1976) as the Center’s second world premiere of a Baryshnikov production.
The New York City Ballet’s fifth Center engagement featured sixteen ballets, including seven Washington premieres: Divertimento No. 15; Episodes; Monumentum Pro Gesualdo; Ballo Della Regina; Kammermusik No. 2; Movements for Piano and Orchestra; and Vienna Waltzes.
Alicia Alonso’s Ballet Nacional de Cuba and the London Festival Ballet were the second and third ballet companies presented in the United States through a new dance partnership of the Kennedy Center and the Metropolitan Opera. The engagement of the Ballet Nacional de Cuba marked the company’s first American appearance and the first major cultural exchange between Cuba and the United States in more than seventeen years. Included in the company’s repertoire of sixteen ballets were productions of Giselle and Carmen, with Miss Alonso dancing the title roles.
The London Festival Ballet presented six works and featured Rudolf Nureyev in his own production of Romeo and Juliet and in Giselle, Scheherazade, and Le Spectre de La Rose.
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 263

<<<Page: 275>>>

The season’s ballet audience totaled more than 229,000 and exceeded 97 percent of capacity.
The Washington Performing Arts Society, a Center affiliate, presented the seventh Center engagement of the Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater and an eight-performance engagement of the Soviet Georgian Dance Company. The Society also presented single performances of folk dance troupes from Bali, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mexico, and Spain.
Through the combined efforts of the Center, its affiliates and independent producers, the 1977-1978 season included 138 symphony concerts, 61 opera performances, 36 recitals, 19 choral concerts, 16 concerts of chamber music, and 19 concerts of popular music, folk and jazz.
The annual Center-sponsored engagement of the New York City Opera featured productions of The Marriage of Figaro, Madama Butterfly, Le Coq d’Or, Mefistofele, La Boheme, La Fanciulla del West, and The Merry Widow, with Beverly Sills and Alan Titus.
Two Handel operas, Poro and Alcina, were presented in concert stagings as a part of the Center’s second Handel Festival. The presentation of Poro marked the first performance of the work in the United States. The Festival, directed by Stephen Simon, also included a performance of Handel’s oratorio, Alexander's Feast.
During May 1978, the Center presented the Concertgebouw Orchestra of Amsterdam, under the direction of Bernard Haitink, performing the complete Beethoven symphonies and piano concerti. The concert series completed the Center’s Brahms/Beethoven Cycle, which began in 1977 with the Cleveland Orchestra performing the symphonies and concerti of Brahms.
The Center also presented a return engagement of Britain’s D’Oyly Carte Opera Company, with productions of lIolanthe, H.M.S. Pinafore, The Mikado, Princess Ida, and The Pirates of Penzance, as well as a series of concerts by the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
The National Symphony Orchestra, the Washington Performing Arts Society, and the Washington Opera are Kennedy Center affiliates which operate within the Center under separate administrations. During the 1977-1978 season, the National Symphony,
264 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 276>>>

under the direction of Mstislav Rostropovich, performed 108 concerts to a total audience of nearly 273,000. The Washington Performing Arts Society presented more than 60 concerts, including performances by 17 major orchestras and such recital artists as Vladimir Ashkenazy, Itzhak Perlman, Marilyn Horne, and Jean Pierre Rampal. The Washington Opera staged productions of L’Elisir d’ Amore; The Magic Flute; The Seagull, by American composer Thomas Pasatieri; and Tosca.
The American Film Institute (ar1) Theater has shown more than 2,650 different motion pictures to an audience of nearly 600,000 since it opened in April 1973. The 224-seat facility is operated by the afl, which maintains its national headquarters within the Center. Programs have ranged from silent films to current American and foreign productions, and showings often include archival works rescued by the art's film preservation program and film classics rarely available for general distribution.
Among the series presented by the ari during 1977-1978 were: a tribute to RKO Radio Pictures; retrospective salutes to Katharine Hepburn, Audrey Hepburn, Henry Fonda, Jean Arthur, and Samuel Fuller; Science Fiction; the American Avant-Garde; Children on Film; Great Theater; The Academy Awards; and classic and contemporary cinema from Bulgaria, the Soviet Union, India, Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Israel.
In November 1977, the ari celebrated its tenth anniversary with a twelve-day film festival. More than 160 films were shown in the AFI Theater and Screening Room and in the Eisenhower Theater; participating guests included Gene Kelly, Elizabeth Taylor, Irene Dunne, and Michael Cacoyannis. The celebration concluded with a salute to America’s most memorable films, broadcast on nationwide television on November 21.
Educational/ Public Service Programming
As the National Cultural Center, the Kennedy Center’s responsibilities and concerns extend beyond the Nation’s Capital and its
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 265

<<<Page: 277>>>

environs to the entire country. During the past two years, the Center has greatly expanded its educational and public-service efforts in order to broaden its local and national constituency and to stimulate national interest in the performing arts.
Kennedy Center education programming includes three major components: State and Local Programs; the American College Theatre Festival; and Programs for Children and Youth. Each is integrated with a national outreach network developed through the Alliance for Arts Education (AAE), a joint project of the Center and the United States Office of Education, and each has major elements conducted at the Center and at other sites around the country.
The Alliance for Arts Education is committed to integrating the arts with the educational experience of every child. It seeks, at both the national and the state level, to identify and support exemplary arts education programs and to promote greater cooperation between arts organizations and educational institutions. As one part of its national commitment, the AAE recognizes and supports the work of its member organization, the National Committee, Arts for the Handicapped, an educational affiliate of the Kennedy Center.
The National Alliance for Arts Education’s State and Local component assists state AAE committees in providing technical assistance in the planning and implementation of comprehensive arts-ineducation plans. Technical assistance includes monitoring progress; convening meetings, conferences, and workshops; developing advocacy programs; providing in-service programs to arts-education demonstration sites; identifying community arts resources; developing curriculum materials; and implementing cooperative programming using existing state and local resources. Thus far, artsin-education plans have been developed in forty states.
During fiscal year 1978, regional conferences were organized, funded, and implemented by the National aat in Columbus, Ohio; Boston, Massachusetts; Phoenix, Arizona; and Little Rock, Arkansas. Agenda topics ranged from strengthening communication networks between state and local projects to handling specific
266 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 278>>>

challenges on the community and state levels. The Little Rock conference was jointly sponsored by the aag, Arts, Education and Americans, Inc. and the American Council for the Arts and was supported by the Department of Arkansas Natural and Cultural Heritage.
The American College Theatre Festival is presented annually by the Kennedy Center and the aat serves to provide national recognition to the efforts of college and university theaters throughout the United States. During 1977-1978, the Festival’s tenth anniversary year, 12,500 students and 2200 faculty members from 430 schools participated in the program, and their productions across the country drew an audience of more than 2 million.
The Festival seeks to encourage new styles of theatrical presentation and new methods of staging, new approaches to the classics, new plays by young writers, and revivals of important plays of the past, as well as excellence of total production—acting, directing, design, and writing.
Nearly 70 productions were selected for presentation in a series of 13 regional festivals, and, of these, 7 were chosen for showcase presentation at the Center’s Eisenhower Theater in April: Sideshow, Angelo State University, San Angelo, Texas; When You Comin’ Back Red Ryder?, University of Montana School of Fine Arts, Missoula, Montana; The Robber Bridegroom, Rhode Island College, Providence, Rhode Island; The Amorous Flea, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan; The Learned Ladies, Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts; and Equus, Portland State University, Portland, Oregon.
Included in the Festival program are a series of annual awards for individual excellence. Winners during 1977-1978 were: Rick Smith, San Angelo, Texas—National Student Playwriting Award (Sideshow); Christine Houston, Chicago, Illinois—Norman Lear Award for best student-written comedy; Farrell J. Foreman, DeKalb, Illinois—Lorraine Hansberry Award for best original play on the subject of the Black experience; Edward A. Mast, Venice, California—David Library of the American Revolution Award for best original play on the subject of American freedom; Saundra Lane Daniel, Birmingham, Alabama, and Jeff J. Redford, Los An-
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 267

<<<Page: 279>>>

geles, California—National Irene Ryan Scholarship Awards for acting. (Thirteen Irene Ryan Scholarships were also awarded to student actors on the regional level.)
The Festival is sponsored by the Amoco companies and produced by the American Theatre Association.
The Center’s 1977-1978 Children’s Arts Series included 127 free performances by 24 different performing groups selected from around the country for national showcase. Staged in the Grand Foyer and in the Center’s Laboratory Theater, the Series drew more than 43,000 young people, teachers, and parents and featured puppets, mime, chamber music, opera, theater, dance, ethnic programs, storytellers, and multimedia productions. Teacher materials relating performances to classroom activities were made available for each of the weekly presentations.
For the second year, the Series culminated in the National Children’s Festival, An Imagination Celebration, with 24 free performances and related events presented throughout the Center to an audience of more than 15,000 over a one-week period. Among the showcase productions were: Opera New England’s The Jumping Frog of Calaveras County, alternately conducted by Sarah Caldwell and William Fred Scott; Concrete Dreams, commissioned by the Alliance for Arts Education expressly for the festival and staged by the Improvisational Theatre Project of the Mark Taper Forum of Los Angeles, California; Drums, Whales and Eskimo Tales, a production of the Performing Arts Foundation of Long Island, New York; and We 3, a musical review created by Leon Bibb, Gail Nelson, and Stan Keen tracing the influence of Black performers on the American musical theater.
During the Children’s Festival, the Kennedy Center presented its first annual ‘Award for Excellence” to Sarah Caldwell, Artistic Director of the Opera Company of Boston, in recognition of her outstanding contributions to the arts and to young people.
For the first time, key elements of the National Children’s Festival were replicated outside Washington at the Denver, Colorado Center for the Performing Arts and the nearby Arvada Center for the Arts and Humanities. Plans have been developed for future Festival presentations in other cities.
As a part of the Children’s Festival program and in cooperation
268 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 280>>>

John Wood (center) and Eli Wallach, with Andre Previn and the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, in a rehearsal of Every Good Boy Deserves Favor, September 1978. Below. Joseph Evans, Eunice Alberts, and Jason Byce performing Opera New England’s The Jumping Frog of Calaveras County during the National Children’s Festival, “An Imagination Celebration,” in April 1978 at the Kennedy Center. Photo: Richard Braaten.

<<<Page: 281>>>

with the National Committee, Arts for the Handicapped, a series of puppet workshops and performances, by nationally known puppeteer George Latshaw, was presented in selected schools in the Washington and Denver areas.
In conjunction with the Festival, major conferences dealing with “The Role of Performance in an Arts in Education Program” and involving artists and educators from around the country were held both in Washington and in Denver.
Children’s Festival programming in Washington and in the Denver area was supported in large part by a grant from McDonald’s Corporation and the Center’s Corporate Fund.
During 1977-1978, more than 700 teachers attended 24 different arts education workshops which were conducted at the Center by leading artists and educators. The ongoing workshop program is presented in cooperation with the National Aesthetic Education Learning Center.
Thirteen special performances were presented in the Grand Foyer during the year by student ensembles representing the states of California, Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, New York, North Carolina, and West Virginia.
From August 21-23, the Center and the Alliance for Arts Education presented an International Youth Choral Festival in the Concert Hall. Participating in the series of individual concerts and a combined concert conducted by Dr. Jester Hairston were: the Coro de Ninos de San Juan, Puerto Rico; Choir Oldutunsskola of Iceland; the Hong Kong Children’s Choir; the Mennonite Children’s Choir of Winnipeg, Canada; and the Page High School Choral Ensemble of Greensboro, North Carolina. All performances were open to the public, free of charge.
SPECIALEVIPRIGED MERE T oS
Since its opening in September 1971, the Kennedy Center has maintained a Specially Priced Ticket Program through which up to 15 percent of tickets for regular Center performances are made available at half-price to students, the handicapped, senior citizens over the age of 65, low-income groups, and military personnel in grades E-1 through E-4, The program is designed to make the Center’s performances accessible to everyone, regardless of economic circumstances. Attendant costs, in terms of reduced revenue potential
270 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 282>>>

and administrative overhead, are borne by the Center itself without public subsidy.
During fiscal year 1978, 110,757 tickets for Center-produced or presented attractions were sold at half-price through the program. The Center also requires that independent producers and affiliate organizations participate by making a percentage of their tickets available for half-price sale. During the year, combined Specially Priced Ticket sales for the Center’s own attractions and those of independent producers and affiliates totaled 129,707, representing a total price reduction of $769,721.
In addition to its children’s programming, the Center annually hosts a full range of symposia, special performances, lectures, and workshops which are open to the public free of charge. During fiscal year 1978, 338 free events were presented, of which 306 were sponsored by the Center itself and 32 by affiliates and other public service organizations.
Weekly performing arts symposia are coordinated by the Friends of the Kennedy Center, the Center’s auxiliary, and feature many of the artists appearing at the Center and at other theaters in the Washington area. Among the participants during the past year were Alicia Alonso, Carol Channing, Donald Gramm, and Julius Rudel.
The Friends also coordinate weekly demonstrations of the Concert Hall’s Filene Memorial Organ that include recitals by young organists from around the country. Demonstrations are also presented periodically in the American Film Institute Theater to illustrate the use of organ background in silent film showings.
The Center’s 1977 Holiday Festival included 13 performances for all age groups. In addition to puppet programs and choral and symphony concerts, the Festival featured the annual Messiah SingAlong, with Washington-area guest conductors and full audience participation.
The National Town Meeting Program, sponsored by Mobil Oil Corporation, continued to provide a unique opportunity for direct exchange between the public and national leaders. During the year, twenty-five Town Meetings were held in the Eisenhower Theater, Opera House, and Concert Hall.
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 271

<<<Page: 283>>>

In 1966, the Center’s Board of Trustees established the Friends of the Kennedy Center as its nationwide, volunteer, self-supporting auxiliary. For the past twelve years, the organization has met its goal of providing public service programs and activities on the Center’s behalf through monetary income from memberships and from the sale of gift and souvenir items.
Friends membership now numbers nearly 8,500, including 290 active volunteers whose combined contribution to the Center totaled more than 64,500 hours during fiscal year 1978. Friends’ volunteers staff the Volunteer Office, an information and assistance center for visitors and performance-goers, 365 days a year from 9:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. Volunteer guides provide free tours of the Center to more than 1000 visitors each day, and, for the benefit of foreign visitors, tours are available in French, German, and Spanish. In addition, the Friends have prepared tour-script translations in Dutch, Italian, Hebrew, and Japanese.
Volunteers also aid in the administration of the Specially Priced Ticket Program, staff souvenir stands, help coordinate special arrangements for the handicapped, assist in the Center’s mail-order department, and respond to requests for Center information from all over the country.
The Friends work closely with the National Park Service, which is responsible for maintaining the Center as a national memorial, and during fiscal year 1978 the Friends and Park Service personnel offered information, assistance, and hospitality to more than 4.3 million visitors and performance patrons.
Activities of the Friends are guided by Mrs. Polk Guest, who has served as chairman continuously since 1968.
From its inception, the Kennedy Center has sought to present programs which reflect the diversity of the various cultures that comprise American society and to encourage the participation of the widest spectrum of performers and audiences. In 1977, the Chairman’s National Commission to Expand the Scope and Constituency of black Participation at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts was established on a one-year basis to assess and
272 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 284>>>

increase the efficacy of the Center’s programs and operation with respect to the black community and, in so doing, to develop avenues for increased minority participation in all areas of the performing arts.
Among the Commission’s chief efforts were: the dissemination of information about minority participation in the performing arts both at the Center and nationwide, including the development of the first national directory of black theaters; the sponsorship of performances, programs, and new works highlighting the black performing arts community; and the examination of the employment status and visibility of blacks as performing artists, creators, and administrators at the Center and across the country.
In the Washington area, the Commission sponsored a six-part radio series, The Soul of the Classics, which focused on the music of black composers. In addition, it supported a concert at the Center by the Urban Philharmonic, a predominantly black symphony orchestra, and a concert by the D. C. Youth Orchestra.
A Black Theater and Playwright Project Task Force was established as an arm of the Commission to stimulate the creation and production of new or previously unproduced plays of merit by awarding grants and commissions to black theaters and playwrights. Six theaters were selected to participate in the project on the basis of submitted proposals, and these, in turn, will select playwrights and works for production. Resulting productions will each be considered for possible future presentation at the Center. The participating theaters and works selected by them thus far are: AMAS Repertory Theatre, New York, New York (Charles Fuller’s Sparrow in Flight); Dashiki Project Theatre, New Orleans, Louisiana; Inner-City Cultural Center, Los Angeles, California; Karamu House, Cleveland, Ohio; New Freedom Theatre, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Urban Arts Corps, New York, New York (Vinnette Carroll’s But Never Jam Today).
The Commission also completed arrangements for a music competition and colloquium for young minority performers, and regional auditions will be held during 1979 in Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and Saint Louis. In addition, it commissioned major compositions from George Walker and Roque Cordero to be performed at the Center during 1979 by noted violinist Sanford Allen, and announced the sponsorship of a 1979
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 273

<<<Page: 285>>>

Center performance of Nathan Davis’s jazz composition, Suite for Martin Luther King, Jr.
Members of the Black Commission are: Dr. Archie L. Buffkins, President; Kathryn Bloom; Catherine Chance, Shirley Trusty Corey; Mattiwilda Dobbs; Katherine Dunham; John M. Ehle; Roberta Flack; James O. Gibson; Denise Hamilton; Jesse Hill; Marvin Holloway; Fred Hudson; Quincy Jones; Jack Morrison; Budd Schulberg; Elie Siegmeister; Ellen Stewart; and Nancy Wilson.
The work of the Commission is made possible through assistance from the Kennedy Center’s Corporate Fund. The Black Theater and Playwright Project is assisted by a grant from General Foods Corporation.
The first annual John F. Kennedy Center-Rockefeller Foundation International Competitions for Excellence in the Performance of American Music culminated in a week-long series of semifinal and final piano recitals presented in the Concert Hall in September. Competition winners, announced after the final recital on September 17, were: First Place—Bradford Paul Gowen, Tuscaloosa, Alabama; Second Place—Donna Coleman, Ambler, Pennsylvania; Third Place—Robert Weirich, New Orleans, Louisiana.
The aim of the Kennedy Center-Rockefeller Foundation Competitions is to stimulate the interest of performers, teachers, and students in the large body of recital music written by American composers since 1900, in the hope that by doing so more of the heritage of twentieth-century American music may become known generally. The Competitions will be open to pianists, vocalists, and instrumentalists on an alternating-year basis, and are funded by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation.
The Kennedy Center-Friedheim Awards have been established to recognize outstanding American achievement in the composition of symphonic and chamber music. Entries are reviewed by a jury representing the Music Critics Association, and the works of five finalists are performed at a Center Awards Concert. The first winners for symphonic composition, announced on September 17 following a performance of the five competing works by the Peabody Conservatory Symphony Orchestra, were: First Place— Vincent
274 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 286>>>

Persichetti, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Concerto for English Horn and String Orchestra; Second Place—Aurelio de la Vega, Northridge, California, Adios; Third Place—Stanislaw Skrowaczewski, Minneapolis, Minnesota, Ricercari Notturni for Saxophone and Orchestra.
The Awards honor the late-pianist, Arthur Friedheim, and are funded by a grant from the Eric Friedheim Foundation. The 1979 Awards will be presented to composers of chamber music.
The Center’s Board of Trustees has established an annual program of Kennedy Center Honors to recognize those individuals who have provided particular enrichment to American life and culture through their life work in the performing arts.
The first recipients, Marian Anderson, Fred Astaire, George Balanchine, Richard Rodgers, and Arthur Rubinstein, will be saluted at a special Opera House performance on December 3, 1978. The evening’s program, which will involve the participation of outstanding American artists representing the full spectrum of the performing arts, will be broadcast on nationwide television by the Columbia Broadcasting System (css) on December 5.
Building Repairs
In 1977 Congress authorized an appropriation of $4.7 million to the National Park Service for repair, renovation, and reconstruction necessitated by serious waterleaks from the Center’s terraces, East Plaza Drive, kitchen, and roof. Roof repairs were completed during 1977, and repairs to the kitchen floor and Concert Hall ceiling, during the early part of 1978. Work on the final and most extensive phases of the project, the repair of the East Plaza Drive and the Roof Terrace, began in September 1978, and is expected to be completed in mid to late 1979.
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 275

<<<Page: 287>>>

Terrace Theater/Performing Arts Library Complex
A new, 500-seat auditorium, the Terrace Theater, will open on the Center’s upper level in January 1979, as the result of a $3-million Bicentennial gift from the government and people of Japan to the people of the United States. The facility, which was left unfinished during original construction for lack of funds, has been designed by Philip Johnson and will be used for drama, dance, chamber music, children’s programming, the American College Theatre Festival, poetry readings, lectures, and experimental works.
A Performing Arts Library, also designed by Philip Johnson, will open in March 1979, in the North Gallery, adjacent to the new theater. A joint project of the Center and the Library of Congress, the library will house a reference and periodical collection covering all aspects of the performing arts, including motion pictures and broadcasting. Performing arts exhibits and audio/visual facilities will complement the Library’s information services. Computer access will be provided through video display terminals to the extensive performing arts resources of the Library of Congress. Construction and furnishing are being made possible through the Center’s Corporate Fund and the generosity of former Center Trustee Lew Wasserman. A grant from the National Home Library Foundation will permit further enlargement of the collections, and a gift from the Recording Industry Association of America will considerably enlarge the library’s disc-recording collection.
Funding
The Kennedy Center receives no federal funding for its performing arts programming and administrative expenses. In addition, its educational and public service programs are carried out largely without subsidy. The sole exception is an annual congressional appropriation to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare for the Alliance for Arts Education, a joint project of the Center and the United States Office of Education. Appropriated funds are used primarily for State and Local Programs, and while they partially
276 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 288>>>

subsidize Programs for Children and Youth and the American College Theatre Festival, the two components are supported for the most part by funds raised by the Center from private sources.
During fiscal year 1978, the Center’s operating budget exceeded $21 million, and in meeting its budget obligations, the Center was almost wholly dependent upon revenues from theater operations, concession income, and private contributions.
The Center reimburses the National Park Service a pro-rata share of annual maintenance costs on the basis of a formula devised by independent accountants for the House Public Works Committee. Reimbursement payments totaled more than $500,000 for fiscal year 1978.
The financial support of the national community is vitally important to the Center’s programming activities, and since 1971 individuals, foundations, and corporations have contributed a total of more than $10.3 million.
In 1977, principal officers of 36 major American corporations organized the Corporate Fund for the Performing Arts to provide continuing corporate support for the Center’s public service and educational efforts. Contributed funds are used to encourage the development of new theatrical and musical talents, to broaden the Center’s constituency and to make performing arts presentations available on a free or low-priced basis.
Participation in the Corporate Fund is open to any corporation which makes a contribution to the Center. The Chairman of the 1978 Corporate Fund was Frank T. Cary, Chairman, International Business Machines Corporation. During fiscal year 1978, Fund Contributions were received from the following:
Corporate Leadership Circle
American Telephone and Telegraph Company; Exxon Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Prudential Insurance Company of America.
Corporate Patrons
Atlantic Richfield Company; CBS, Inc.; Canteen Corporation; E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company, Inc.; General Motors Corporation; Alvin Nederlander Associates, R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.; United States Steel Corporation; Xerox Corporation.
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 277

<<<Page: 289>>>

Corporate Sponsors
Allied Chemical Foundation; The Folger Fund; Ford Motor Company; General Electric Company; Gulf Oil Corporation; Mobil Oil Corporation; Philip Morris, Inc.; Procter and Gamble; Raytheon Company; Rockwell International Corporation; Sears, Roebuck and Company; Shell Oil Company; Texaco, Inc.; United Technologies Corporation.
Corporate Donors
Allstate Insurance Company; Aluminum Company of America; American Broadcasting Company; American Express Company; Baker International Corporation; Bechtel Corporation; Bethlehem Steel Corporation; Black, Starr and Frost, Ltd.; Bristol-Myers Company; Burson-Marsteller; Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company; Chevron, U.S.A.; Citicorp; The Coca Cola Company; Continental Oil Company; Deere and Company; Deloitte Haskins and Sells; Walt Disney Productions; Dresser Industries; Federal National Mortgage Association; Federated Department Stores; General Dynamics Corporation; Getty Oil Company; The Gillette Company; Grace Foundation; International Paper Company; International Telephone and Telegraph Company; John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company; Johnson & Higgins; Levi Strauss and Company; Martin Marietta Corporation; Merrill, Lynch and Company; Metropolitan Life Foundation; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York; NCR Corporation; Owens-Illinois Corporation; Peabody Coal Company; Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company; J.C. Penney Company; Perpetual Federal Savings and Loan Association; Phelps Dodge Industries; Price Waterhouse & Company; Reynolds Metals Company; Schering-Plough; Sun Company; Technicolor, Inc.; Time, Inc.; Union Carbide Corporation; Woodward and Lothrop, Inc.
Corporate Contributors
American Airlines, Inc; AMF, Inc.; Borg-Warner Corporation; Burlington Industries; Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation; Cities Service Company; Continental Corporation; Continental Group; Ethyl Corporation; Garfinkel’s; B. F. Goodrich Company; Earl G. Graves, Ltd.; Green Giant Company; Halliburton Company;
278 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 290>>>

H. J. Heinz Charitable and Family Trust; Johns-Manville Corporation; LTV Corporation; Lever Brothers Company; Liberty National Bank & Trust Company; Eli Lilly and Company; Mars Foundation; National Steel Corporation; Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation; Petrolane, Inc.; Phillips Petroleum Company; Reading and Bates Offshore Drilling Company; William R. and Virginia F. Salomon Family Foundation, Inc.; Singer Company; Textron, Inc.; U.S. News and World Report; Uniroyal, Inc.; Hiram Walker and Sons; Western Electric Company.
Although organizationally a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy Center is administered separately by a 45-member Board of Trustees composed of 30 members appointed by the President of the United States to 10-year overlapping terms and 15 members ex-officio from pertinent government agencies, the Senate, and the House of Representatives.
Members of the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees are as follows:
Charles H. Percy Mrs. Donna Stone Pesch
Roger L. Stevens, Chairman Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Daniel J. Boorstin Ernest Boyer
J. Carter Brown
Joseph A. Califano, Jr. Robert S. Carter
Mrs. Edward Finch Cox Mrs. J. Clifford Folger Abe Fortas
Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen J. William Fulbright
R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Orval Hansen
Mrs. Paul H. Hatch Mrs. Bob Hope
Frank Ikard
Edward M. Kennedy Melvin R. Laird
Mrs. J. Willard Marriott Ronald H. Nessen
Albert H. Quie
John E. Reinhardt
S. Dillon Ripley I
Teno Roncalio
William H. Rumsey
Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith
John G. Spatuzza
Henry Strong
Frank Thompson, Jr.
Benjamin A. Trustman
Jack J. Valenti
Walter E. Washington
William J. Whalen
Harrison A. Williams, Jr.
Mrs. Jack Wrather
Mrs. George A. Garrett, Honorary Trustee
Six presidential appointments are pending.
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 279

<<<Page: 291>>>

Children show their very own books which they have selected as a part of the Reading Is Fundamental Program. The Mobile (below) further encourages reading by bringing books directly to the neighborhood.

<<<Page: 292>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
IN A YEAR WHEN THE DEMAND for basic skills has severely challenged the entire education community, Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) has continued to hold its place as a recognized and much honored leader in the campaign to give each American young person good books and the motivation to read them.
RIF was organized in the Washington, D.C., public schools in 1966 by Mrs. Robert McNamara, and located its national headquarters in the Smithsonian Institution in 1968. There are now over 2300 local rir reading motivation programs in all fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. These programs operate in all types of communities—urban and rural, large and small—and adapt to the young people they serve the classic r1F techniques of free books and stimulating reading activities. Using federal matching funds, these programs are distributing about 10 million inexpensive books to about 2.5 million young people, ages three through high school.
RIF has succeeded largely because it is simple and unbureaucratic, because it engages volunteers from all sectors of the community, and because it contributes to the literacy campaign in a unique way. Most literacy programs have concentrated on techniques of reading instruction. RIF recognizes that effective teaching is indispensable, but it also recognizes one thing more: without the will to read, even the most imaginative teaching cannot coax a child into literacy. RIF aims to develop the desire to read by circling exciting reading activities around book distributions, occasions when children freely choose inexpensive books and keep them for their own.

<<<Page: 293>>>

The efficacy of r1F’s techniques to motivate young people to read has been widely acclaimed. In September 1976, the success of the RIE method was acknowledged when the United States Office of Education awarded to Reading Is Fundamental the contract to administer the Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. This contract marks a milestone in r1F’s history. Local reading motivation programs, which formerly depended on local funds, may now apply to RIE for federal funds to match each local dollar raised to buy books for youngsters. The combined attraction of federal funds and RIF techniques has been impressive. In the first two years of this program, RIF has received tens of thousands of inquiries, and has approved 2348 proposals to receive federal funds for reading motivation programs.
Leaders in education and government have joined private citizens in supporting Reading Is Fundamental. Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., has endorsed rtr’s efforts, as has Commissioner of Education Ernest L. Boyer, who wrote: “I endorse wholeheartedly the remarkable private volunteer effort that Reading Is Fundamental has become . . . | commend it to educators everywhere for their cooperation and support.” Mrs. Joan Mondale has publicly supported rir, along with Governor Ella Grasso of Connecticut, the mayors of several cities, and a number of state superintendents of education.
Other national organizations have cooperated extensively in the RIF effort. The Association of Library Services for Children of the American Library Association issued a resolution endorsing Reading Is Fundamental. The Boys Clubs of America and the Camp Fire Girls have supported rir, urging their local affiliates to establish reading motivation programs for their young members. r1F has similarly achieved the endorsement of many other major professional and service organizations, among them the National Urban League, the National Association of Elementary School Principals, the International Reading Association, and the National Education Association.
The publishing community has also supported Reading Is Fundamental. Over 200 publishers and distributors, including major publishing houses, small presses and local distributors, have qualified to supply books to the Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. The industry’s trade magazine, Publishers Weekly, has willingly
282 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 294>>>

publicized the new federal program, as have such magazines as the School Library Journal. And rtF continually enjoys the friendly cooperation of the Association of American Publishers and prominent figures in the juvenile book world.
In addition to organizing a countrywide network of reading motivation programs, Reading Is Fundamental has researched the theory and practice of reading motivation and forged the results into tools for volunteers. With a grant from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, r1F produced two sets of tapes and two training manuals to guide intensive volunteer training sessions. RIF also created the film Read, Read, Read to dramatize the r1F concept, as well as a resource manual and various periodicals to refine volunteer skills. Through its ability to translate research into training tools, R1F has made a major contribution to the development and education of America’s volunteer movement.
In addition to the millions of young people who have learned to love books through rir, the volunteers are perhaps the brightest token of this program’s success. Since 1976 alone, over 80,000 people have been actively engaged in r1F programs. For those who rely, as Reading Is Fundamental does, on the common sense and dedication of private citizens, the support of these volunteers is the clearest, most telling evidence of the program’s practical ability to convince children of all backgrounds, from every region of the country, that reading is a joy worth pursuing.
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. / 283

<<<Page: 295>>>

i i 14
i td
The western end of the original Smithsonian Building is shown in this print from Robert Dale Owen’s Hints on Public Architecture, 1849. The tower is not only famous for its beauty but also for the owls which have made it their abode—quite fittingly so as the owl stands for Wisdom and the Institution’s mandate from its founder James Smithson is “to increase and diffuse knowledge.”

<<<Page: 296>>>

Smithsonian Year « 1978
THE MOST SIGNIFICANT EVENT of the year for the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange was the decision by the Legislative and Executive Branches of the Government to affiliate the Exchange with the Department of Commerce in fiscal year 1979. This action stemmed from the General Accounting Office Report of March 31, 1977, on the Smithsonian Institution, ‘Need to Strengthen Financial Accountability to the Congress.” One of the recommendations in that report was that the Board of Regents dissolve the corporate status of the Exchange and carry out its operations as part of the Smithsonian’s regular organizational structure. The Smithsonian concluded that given the history and purpose of the Exchange, which has been operated separately from the Institution as a service to the science community, the Regents should not take unilateral action. Instead, the matter of the future status of the Exchange, including its organizational placement, was referred to the Office of Management and Budget. At the oms, the question was taken up by the President’s Reorganization Project. After study, the oms and the Congress agreed that the Department of Commerce would be a more appropriate affiliation given that Department’s responsibilities for the management of technical information.
This decision will end the Smithsonian Institution’s long relationship with the Exchange, which dates back to 1953 when the Institution first undertook the operation of the Exchange for a group of federal agencies concerned with improving the management of their research programs. During the period of its management re-

<<<Page: 297>>>

sponsibility, the Exchange has increased the registration of information about research in progress from 7200 research projects per year to 120,000 per year. This dramatic increase has resulted from greater federal support of research and from an increasing awareness on the part of research managers and policy makers of the important role that the Exchange has played over the years as an integral part of the research planning and management process.
Many other changes have taken place in the Exchange over the years that it has been managed and/or operated under the aegis of the Institution. Most notable has been the recognition by the information and research community, both nationally and internationally, of the Exchange’s leadership role in this important area of scientific information. The Exchange has developed and published numerous techniques and methods for improving the processing and dissemination of “research in progress” information as well as establishing its use in research and development planning and management. A recent review of the growth and development of ongoing research information systems illustrates the progress made in this field over the past twenty-eight years, and the integral part played by the Exchange in promoting such systems both nationally and internationally.’
During the period of its growth under the Smithsonian Institution, the Exchange successfully made the transition from a manual system to a fully computerized one and from a system which provided services without cost to one with a full user cost recovery program without the loss of a single day’s work. These changes could not have been so easily accomplished without the support and help so generously provided by the Institution over the years.
One of the major reasons for the success and growth of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange over the years has been its dedication to determining current and potential users’ needs and responding wherever possible to those needs. In the current year, the Exchange has continued these efforts through two user surveys.
* David F. Hersey, “Information Systems for Research in Progress” in The Annual Review of Information Science and Technology, vol. 13, 1978, Knowledge Industry Publications, Inc., White Plains, N.Y.
286 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 298>>>

Response to user needs expressed in these surveys has already begun by developing new products and services or by improving existing ones that the Exchange believes will be of increasing value to both current and potential users. Among the new products developed in 1978 was a special trends analysis in two major areas of research, namely, composite materials research and coal research. This service provides a historical look at research in these areas as well as a monthly update of newly reported research projects. A number of other new products and services are being considered as a result of these surveys. The surveys have also provided information on certain data elements which the Exchange has been considering for inclusion in its data base format and a number of improvements are being made in the internal processing system of the Exchange so as to provide more meaningful output to the user. These changes include better information on performing and supporting organizations as well as other administrative information.
Fiscal year 1978 saw the release of a number of important publications relating to the Exchange or prepared by it. One of the most important of these was the release of a General Accounting Office Report to the Congress in July relating to recommendations for the improvement of management of materials research. This report recommended the need for a centralized materials clearinghouse to avoid unnecessary duplication of research and to facilitate the coordination of research and development programs. It was also recommended that the Exchange become the official information center for research in this field and that the Office of Management and Budget take certain actions to insure that information for the center be collected. This role for the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, although in a new subject area, is not new for the Exchange, which was earlier designated as the national center for water resources, urban research, and marine research. This continuing recognition of the Exchange’s ability to fill such a role, however, is important in view of the need to demonstrate continuously the value that ongoing research systems, such as the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, have in research and development management.
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. / 287

<<<Page: 299>>>

Another report was issued this year by an interagency Toxic Substance Strategy Committee on federal research, development, testing, and monitoring activities in this area. The report makes extensive reference to information obtained from the Exchange in this area and noted that better utilization of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange (with tighter quality control) would provide an excellent means for alerting project managers to ongoing research. The Exchange data furnished to the task force performing the review provided a detailed characterization of the programs supported by various federal agencies in this important area of research. This type of support to federal interagency committees, in which an entire field of research is reviewed both in terms of who supports the research and the amount of research being carried out in a given year, is a primary part of the Exchange’s effort to help agencies minimize duplication and improve coordination of research and development. The Exchange is continually striving to improve the quantity and quality of the data base and its services so as to improve the value of its data base system to the user.
The Exchange continued its program for the dissemination of information contained in its data base in a wide variety of ways during 1978. Catalogues and special listings of ongoing research in selected subject areas were prepared for a number of federal agencies, and magnetic tapes containing research information received during the year in cancer and water resources research were provided to the National Cancer Institute and the Office of Water Resources Research in the Department of the Interior respectively, for use in online data systems established by these organizations for special users. The Exchange also made its data base available online to the public through a second commercial organization this year, the Lockheed Dialog System in California. The combined use of the new system along with use of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange file which has been available through the System Development Corporation has more than doubled the use online of the data base over its 1977 use, thus improving the dissemination of ongoing research information and reaching a greater segment of the research and development community.
288 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 300>>>

This year the Exchange, in cooperation with unesco, has compiled and prepared for publication in the fall, the first inventory ever published on “Information Services on Research in Progress: A Worldwide Inventory.” The directory will be distributed in this country through the National Technical Information Service of Springfield, Virginia. Publication of this directory represents the third in a series of efforts by the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, in cooperation with unesco, to develop an increasing awareness of the need for, and availability of, ongoing research information throughout the world. Earlier efforts included the development of an “International Symposium on Information Systems and Services in Ongoing Research in Science” in October 1975 and participation by the Exchange as a part of an international group of ad hoc consultants to unesco in October 1977. The consultant group was convened to provide recommendations to UNESCO regarding future activities which they should consider supporting in connection with this important area of information science. The Exchange also continued its operation of the Current Cancer Research Project Analysis Center of the International Cancer Research Data Bank program for the National Cancer Institute.
During 1978, the Exchange also undertook for the first time the preparation of a preliminary prototype directory of biosaline research in progress (primarily United States supported research). The preparation of this directory, under a contract from the National Science Foundation was the first step in a new effort by the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange to collect, classify, store, and disseminate information about ongoing international biosaline research. This project will involve the collection of information from thirteen countries including the United States and will result in the preparation of an international directory of biosaline research for publication in the fall of 1979. The Exchange currently is exploring sources of support to continue its program of collecting, indexing, and preparing for publication a third edition of international energy research and development based on energy research outside of the United States.
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. / 289

<<<Page: 301>>>

Interior view of the Court of the National Gallery of Art’s new East Building which was opened to the public the first of June 1978.

<<<Page: 302>>>

Smithsonian Year * 1978
THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, although formally established as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and separately administered organization. It is governed by its own Board of Trustees, the statutory members of which are the Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman; the Secretary of State; the Secretary of the Treasury; and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, all ex officio; and five general trustees. Paul Mellon continued as President of the Gallery and John Hay Whitney as Vice President. Other general trustees continuing to serve were Carlisle H. Humelsine, Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, and John R. Stevenson.
During the year, attendance in both the Gallery’s West Building and the new East Building reached 4,587,172. One million visitors were counted in the East Building alone during the first seven weeks after its opening.
The Gallery’s expansion program begun in the mid-60s reached a major milestone on the first of June 1978 when President Carter accepted the East Building for the people of the United States and opened it to the public. The structure was designed by I. M. Pei & Partners and was constructed under the auspices of the Gallery’s trustees by the Chas. H. Tompkins Co. Its cost, as well as that of the Connecting Link which was opened in 1976, was covered by funds donated for the purpose by Paul Mellon, the Gallery’s President; his late sister, Ailsa Mellon Bruce; and The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. The new construction more than doubles the usable space available in the original building, now entitled the West Building.

<<<Page: 303>>>

Of the East Building’s 450,000 square feet of floor space approximately half is devoted to public exhibition areas, auditoria, and a restaurant, and half to the Library and Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts and offices for the Gallery’s curatorial and administrative staffs.
To demonstrate the flexibility of the East Building, its opening was celebrated by the simultaneous premieres of six major exhibitions on five levels. At the concourse level was ““The Splendor of Dresden,” its 714 works illustrating five centuries of art collecting by the Electors of Saxony. At the street level one first encountered an exhibition of “Master Drawings and Watercolors” from the twelfth to the twentieth centuries and then an exhibition, “Small French Paintings,” mostly Impressionist, that the late Ailsa Mellon Bruce had assembled and donated to the Gallery.
On the mezzanine level were an exhibition of Piranesi engravings, illustrating his early architectural fantasies, and the first section of a tripartite exhibition entitled ““Aspects of TwentiethCentury Art,” displaying early paintings of Picasso as well as others in the period of Cubism. In the upper galleries, the “Aspects” exhibition continued with “European Painting and Sculpture,” and an exhibition of ““American Art at Mid-Century” displayed seven artists’ multiple treatments of a subject or a technique on which each had concentrated heavily. Represented were Jackson Pollock, Robert Motherwell, Willem de Kooning, Barnett Newman, Arshile Gorky, Mark Rothko, and David Smith. Finally in the tower gallery, a permanent installation of the Gallery’s holdings of Matisse’s cutouts as well as two editions of his Jazz was opened to view.
From its collections, the Gallery made loans to temporary exhibitions at 4 European and 24 United States institutions; the objects included 18 sculptures, 230 paintings, and 43 works of graphic art.
Major examples of works by renowned twentieth-century artists were added to the collection and unveiled at the opening of the East Building. Sculptures include Henry Moore’s monumental Knife Edge Mirror Two Piece; Alexander Calder’s very large mobile; five David Smiths, among them Voltri VII and CUBI XXVI; Noguchi’s granite monolith; Anthony Caro’s Ledge Piece; and a work of James Rosati. Among the paintings are Jackson Pollock’s Lavender Mist and a large oil by Robert Motherwell, as well as works by Klimt and Kandinsky (unveiled later in the year).
292 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 304>>>

Two unique tapestries are based on designs by Joan Miro and Jean Arp.
The Department of Extension Programs’ bookings for its freeloan materials increased 22 percent during the year to 36,596, with an estimated audience of 6,240,000. With the cooperation of the Arts and Humanities staff of the United States Office of Education, State Arts Supervisors in all fifty states have actively fostered use of the Gallery’s films and slide programs. Requests for the catalogue of available items averaged 225 per week, up 100 percent over the previous year. Seventeen new slide programs and two new films were added during the year as well as French and Spanish versions of the film The Eye of Thomas Jefferson.
Total attendance at talks given by the Gallery’s Education Department and at the programs presented in the auditorium was 148,990. These included the regularly scheduled auditorium lectures and films; the Introduction to the Collection, the Tour of the Week, and Painting of the Week talks; and special introductory presentations keyed to four of the exhibitions. There were 38 guest lecturers including the twenty-sixth annual Andrew W. Mellon Lecturer in the Fine Arts, Joseph Alsop, who propounded a new thesis in art history linking art collecting, art history, the art market, and art museums—a modern phenomenon—and traced their interaction in six civilizations spanning 2,500 years. Other distinguished scholars who lectured included Agnes Mongan, Kress Professor in Residence; Jules Prown of Yale University; Sir John Pope-Hennessy, Consultative Chairman of the Department of European Paintings at the Metropolitan Museum; Julius Held, Professor Emeritus of Art History, Barnard College; and Carl Nordenfalk, Director Emeritus, the Swedish National Museum.
The most notable acquisition of the Gallery’s library was Huntington Cairns’s gift of his 14,000-volume collection covering virtually all areas of humanistic study assembled by the donor, who for twenty years served as the Gallery’s Secretary, Treasurer, and General Counsel. Other accessions included 1572 books and 36,900 photographs for the Photographic Archives, most of them purchased with funds provided by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation.
The Editor’s Office, gearing itself to the opening of the East Building, edited, designed, and produced 5 books, 15 brochures and leaflets, and a guide to the new building, plus 5 posters and 26
National Gallery of Art / 293

<<<Page: 305>>>

postcards. Over 2,220,000 pieces of material were printed in time for the June 1 opening.
The Music Program consisted of 38 Sunday evening concerts in the East Garden Court, 11 of them by the National Gallery Orchestra. In addition, the Gallery’s string ensemble played during a preview of the East Building by members of the Congress and at the opening of the Dresden exhibition.
Matisse: The Cut-outs From the previous fiscal year until October 24, 1977. French Prints by 20th-Century Masters From the previous fiscal year until November 20, 1977. Nineteenth-Century Toys and Dolls from the Index of American Design December 21, 1977, to March 19, 1978. The European Countryside: 16thand 17th-Century Prints December 21, 1977, to March 19, 1978. Master Drawings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art and Promised Gifts June 1 to August 13, 1978. The Splendor of Dresden: Five Centures of Art Collecting An Exhibition from the German Democratic Republic June 1 to September 4, 1978. Piranesi: The Early Architectural Fantasies June 1 until the end of the fiscal year. American Art at Mid-Century: The Subjects of the Artist June 1 until the end of the fiscal year. Aspects of Twentieth-Century Art I. Picasso and Cubism IJ. European Painting and Sculpture lI. Henri Matisse: Cut-outs and Jazz June 1 until the end of the fiscal year. Small French Paintings from the Bequest of Ailsa Mellon Bruce June 1 until the end of the fiscal year. The American Folk Art Tradition: Paintings from the Garbisch Collection August 29 until the end of the fiscal year.
294 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 306>>>

Smithsonian Year 1978
Organization Chart
Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1978
Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978
National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1978
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1978
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1978
Academic Appointments in Fiscal Year 1978
Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1978
List of Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1978
Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1978
Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1978
page 296
308 312
377 390
493 494

<<<Page: 307>>>

ASSISTANT SECRETARIES for: Administration * History and Art Museum Programs ¢ Public Service Science
Coordinator of Public Information Director of Membership and Development Director of Support Activities General Counsel Treasurer
HISTORY AND ART MUSEUM PROGRAMS Archives of American Art Conservation Analytical Laboratory Cooper-Hewitt Museum of National Museum Act Programs Design and Decorative Arts Office of Exhibits Central Freer Gallery of Art Office of Horticulture Hirshhorn Museum and Office of International Activities Sculpture Garden Office of Museum Programs Joseph Henry Papers Office of the Registrar National Collection of Smithsonian Archives Fine Arts Smithsonian Institution Libraries Renwick Gallery Smithsonian Institution National Museum of History Traveling Exhibition Service
and Technology National Portrait Gallery Office of American and
Folklife Studies
Management Analysis Office Accounting
Office of Equal Opportunity Business Management
Office of Personnel Administration Belmont Conference Center Ombudsman Concessions Management
Mail Order Division Smithsonian Museum Shops Grants and Insurance Administration Investments Accounting Programming and Budget

<<<Page: 308>>>

_ aol Under Separate Boards of Trustees:
| | l | | WOODROW WILSON
ee ee ee
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Division of Performing Arts
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Exposition Books
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithscnian Magazine
Visitors Information and Associates’ Reception Center
Smithsonian National Associates Smithsonian Resident Associates
Office of Congressional Affairs Office of Public Information Office of Special Events
eco or cae)
Advisory Council of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design and Decorative Arts
Advisory Council for the National Museum Act
Archives of American Art Board of Trustees
Board of Fellowships and Grants
Freer Visiting Committee
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Board of Trustees
Joint Committee for the Papers of Joseph Henry
National Air and Space Museum Advisory Board
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
National Collection of Fine Arts Commission
National Portrait Gallery Commission
Smithsonian Council
Smithsonian Research Awards Advisory Council
Se EEE
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
Fort Pierce Bureau
National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of Man Center for the Study of Man
National Museum of Natural History
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
National Zoological Park
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Radiation Biology Laboratory
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Computer Services Contracts Facilities Planning and Engineering Services International Exchange Service Plant Services Printing and Photographic Services Protection Services Supply Services Travel Services

<<<Page: 309>>>

APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1978
Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio (Chancellor) Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States, ex officio Henry M. Jackson, Senator from Washington
Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona
Robert B. Morgan, Senator from North Carolina
Elford A. Cederberg, Representative from Michigan
George H. Mahon, Representative from Texas
Leo J. Ryan,’ Representative from California
Anne Armstrong, citizen of Texas
J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia
John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island
William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York
Murray Gell-Mann, citizen .of California
Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of the District of Columbia
A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut
James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia
Executive Committee, Board of Regents
Warren E. Burger, Chancellor (Board of Regents), ex officio James E. Webb, Chairman
William A. M. Burden
Caryl P. Haskins
S. Dillon Ripley
The Smithsonian Council
George A. Bartholomew Stephen Jay Gould Milton W. Brown Neil Harris
Reid A. Bryson August Heckscher Frederick H. Burkhardt Nathan I. Huggins Archie F. Carr, Jr. George F. Lindsay Carl W. Condit Giles W. Mead Mrs. Camille W. Cook Ruth Patrick William H. Davenport Gordon N. Ray Anne d’Harnoncourt Harold Rosenberg Richard M. Dorson Carl E. Sagan
A. Hunter Dupree Andre Schiffrin Murray Gell-Mann Barbara W. Tuchman
Frank B. Golley
1 Deceased November 18, 1978.
298 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 310>>>

Roger D. Abrahams David Hawkins George C. Seybolt
H. Harvard Arnason Jan LaRue Cyril Stanley Smith Herman R. Branson James L. Liverman John D. Spikes
Fred R. Eggan Clifford L. Lord Stephen E. Toulmin Donald S. Farner Charles D. Michener Warren H. Wagner, Jr. Anthony N. B. Garvan Peter M. Millman William von Arx Philip Handler Philip C. Ritterbush Rainer Zangerl
Archives of American Art Board of Trustees
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman Harold O. Love
Irving F. Burton, President Russell Lynes
Gilbert H. Kinney, Vice President Richard Manoogian
Mrs. Nancy B. Negley, Vice President Porter A. McCray
Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson, Vice President Abraham Melamed
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Secretary Mrs. William L. Mitchell
Henry de Forest Baldwin, Treasurer Frederic A. Sharf
Joel S. Ehrenkranz A. Alfred Tauban
Mrs. Walter B. Ford II Mrs. Louise Talbot Trigg
Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn Edward M. M. Warburg
Miss Milka Iconomoff S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio
Howard W. Lipman Charles Blitzer, ex officio FOUNDING TRUSTEE Lawrence A. Fleischman
HONORARY TRUSTEE Mrs. William L. Richards
Archives of American Art Advisory Committee
James Humphry III, Chairman
John Baur John Howat Jules D. Prown
Milton Brown Bernard Karpel J. T. Rankin
Frederick Cummings John A. Kouwenhoven Marvin Sadik
Ann d’Harnoncourt Abram Lerner Joshua Taylor
Lloyd Goodrich Russell Lynes Charles van Ravenswaay Eugene Goossen A. Hyatt Mayor William B. Walker James J. Heslin Barbara Novak Richard P. Wunder
Board of Fellowships and Grants
Ira Rubinoff, Chairman Thomas Lawton David Challinor, ex officio Porter M. Kier Abram Lerner Charles Blitzer, ex officio
National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man
Margaret Mead? Edward T. Hall George D. Spindler John Adair Paul Hockings Sol Tax
Mrs. Roma S. Crocker Matthew Huxley Fuller E. Torrey William H. Crocker Mrs. Contance B. Mellon Carroll Williams Gordon D. Gibson Mrs. Marion Stirling Pugh
2? Deceased November 15, 1978.
Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 299

<<<Page: 311>>>

Advisory Council of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design and Decorative Arts
August Heckscher, Chairman Susan Mellon
Joanna DuPont, Co-Chairman Kenneth Miller
Rosemary Corroon Arthur Ross
Howard Gilman Robert Sarnoff
Harmon Goldstone S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio Karen Keland Charles Blitzer, ex officio Russell Lynes Susan Hamilton, ex officio
Freer Visiting Committee
Mrs. Jackson Burke Mrs. Katharine Graham Laurence Sickman Kwang-chih Chang Charles A. Greenfield John Thacher
Marvin Eisenberg John M. Rosenfield Richard Weatherhead Murray Gell-Mann Hugh Scott
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Board of Trustees
Daniel P. Moynihan, Chairman Jerome Greene Leigh B. Block, Vice Chairman Joseph H. Hirshhorn Anne d’Harnoncourt Sydney Lewis Thomas M. Evans Dorothy C. Miller
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
Horticultural Advisory Committee
Jimmie L. Crowe Carlton Lees Robert Read Mrs. Belva Jensen Donald Parker
Joint Sponsoring Committee for the Papers of Joseph Henry John H. Van Vleck, Chairman Lee Anna Embrey Blick _S. Dillon Ripley Whitfield J. Bell, Jr. Charles Blitzer Henry D. Smyth
National Air and Space Museum Advisory Board
EX OFFICIO S. Dillon Ripley Major General B. F. Starr, Jr. Brigadier General James L. Collins Vice Admiral Frederick C. Turner Rear Admiral Robert H. Scarborough Jefferson W. Cochran
Lieutenant General Thomas H. Miller, Jr. | Designee, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Mrs. O. A. Beech Lieutenant General Elwood R. Quesada, USAF (Ret.)
National Air and Space Museum Visiting Committee
Dr. Alexander H. Flax Lieutenant General Dr. Gerald K. O’Neill James T. Stewart, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Leon T. Silver Dr. Richard T. Whitcomb
300 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 312>>>

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
John Nicholas Brown, Chairman
Clifford L. Alexander, Jr., Secretary of the Army W. Graham Claytor, Secretary of the Navy John C. Stetson, Secretary of the Air Force
Fred L. Dixon
William I. Greener, Jr. William H. Perkins, Jr. Theodore Ropp
James M. Stone, Sr.
Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
Advisory Council for the National Museum Act
Paul N. Perrot, Chairman Robert Feller
Russell Fridley
Ann Hitchcock
Julia Hotton
Thomas W. Leavitt
Peggy Loar
Joseph V. Noble Richard H. Randall A. Bret Waller Vernal L. Yadon
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
William S. Anderson, Chairman
Robert O. Anderson Robert H. B. Baldwin Harry Hood Bassett Henry C. Beck, Jr. Nicholas F. Brady Keith S. Brown
Mrs. Jackson Burke William T. Coleman, Jr. E. Mandell deWindt Gaylord Donnelley James A. Elkins, Jr. Thomas M. Evans Charles T. Fisher III Ms. Carol P. Guyer Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr.
Richard P. Cooley Joseph F. Cullman III Leonard K. Firestone Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. William A. Hewitt
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 301
Henry J. Heinz II
John N. Irwin II
James M. Kemper, Jr. Mrs. Robert A. Magowan George C. McGhee
Mrs. Robert S. McNamara Scott McVay
Ruben F. Mettler
John R. Norton III Charles M. Pigott
George S. Pillsbury Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr. David E. Skinner
Vernon Taylor, Jr.
James O. Wright
Lewis A. Lapham
Nelson A. Rockefeller Francis C. Rooney, Jr. Merritt Kirk Ruddock Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

<<<Page: 313>>>

National Collection of Fine Arts Commission
George B. Tatum, Chairman Mrs. Robert Homans Otto Wittmann, Vice Chairman Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary David Lloyd Kreeger Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake Abram Lerner Thomas S. Buechner Mrs. Hiram W. McKee Lloyd Goodrich Harold Rosenberg® Walker Hancock Charles H. Sawyer R. Philip Hanes, Jr. George Segal Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth August Heckscher Mitchell A. Wilder HONORARY MEMBERS Martin Friedman Edgar P. Richardson Henry Mcllhenny Alexander Wetmore* Paul Mellon Andrew Wyeth
Ogden Pleissner
National Portrait Gallery Commission
John Nicholas Brown, Chairman Andrew Oliver Joe L. Allbritton® E. P. Richardson Barry Bingham, Sr. Robert H. Smith Ralph Ellison® Frank Stanton Katie Louchheim Barbara Tuchman
Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
Office of International Programs, Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program Advisory Councils ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES ADVISORY COUNCIL
Esin Atil George Hughes Thomas Jacobsen
Daniel G. Bates Daniel H. H. Ingalls John Yellen (observer) George F. Dales
Felix Chayes Paul Hodge Thornton Page
Henry Faul William H. Klein Victor Szebehely
George Field William Melson Louis Walter SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY ADVISORY COUNCIL
D. A. Livingstone Herbert H. Ross
Robert P. McIntosh (observer) R. Ruibal
Norman D. Newell Richard W. Thorington, Jr.
Robert Ornduff
Smithsonian Research Awards Advisory Council
Dr. William Hazen Dr. Allison Palmer Dr. Beatrice Sweeney Dr. John A. O’Keefe Dr. Frank Rhodes Dr. Harry Woolf
® Deceased July 11, 1978. 5 Resigned April 17, 1978.
* Deceased December 7, 1978. ® Resigned June 30, 1978.
302 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 314>>>

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars Board of Trustees
William J. Baroody, Chairman
Paul W. McCracken, Vice Chairman
James A. Baker III, Houston, Texas
Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian of Congress
Robert J. Bork, New Haven, Connecticut
Joseph A. Califano, Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Joseph D. Duffey, Chairman, National Endowment for the Humanities Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy Bryce N. Harlow, Washington, D.C.
John E. Reinhardt, Director, International Communication Agency
A. James Reichley, Yardley, Pennsylvania
James B. Rhoads, Archivist of the United States
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State
Rawleigh Warner, Jr., New York, New York
Kennedy Center Board of Trustees
Roger L. Stevens, Chairman Charles H. Percy
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Mrs. Donna Stone Pesch Daniel J. Boorstin Albert H. Quie
Ernest Boyer John E. Reinhardt
J. Carter Brown S. Dillon Ripley II Joseph A. Califano, Jr. Teno Roncalio
Robert S. Carter William H. Rumsey
Mrs. Edward Finch Cox Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith Abe Fortas John G. Spatuzza
Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen Henry Strong
J. William Fulbright Frank Thompson, Jr.
R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Benjamin A. Trustman Orval Hansen Jack J. Valenti
Mrs. Paul H. Hatch Walter E. Washington Mrs. Bob Hope William J. Whalen Frank Ikard Harrison A. Williams, Jr. Edward M. Kennedy Mrs. Jack Wrather Melvin B. Laird Mrs. George A. Garrett, Mrs. J. Willard Marriott Honorary Trustee
Ronald H. Nessen (Note: Six Presidential appointments are pending.)
National Gallery of Art Board of Trustees EX OFFICIO
The Chief Justice of the United States Warren E. Burger, Chairman The Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance
The Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal
The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution S. Dillon Ripley
GENERAL Carlisle H. Humelsine Franklin D. Murphy John R. Stevenson
Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 303

<<<Page: 315>>>

APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978
American Anthropological Association, Washington, D.C. Travel support for United States participants in the Tenth International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences (India).
American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; photohistory of India from 19thand 20th-century photographs; studies in the comparative linguistics of the Munda languages.
American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Operation of Center in Cairo; continuation of the epigraphic survey of the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago; preparation for publication of a manuscript by the Late Georges Legrain on Egyptian sculpture from Karnak in the Cairo Museum; The Middle Commentaries on Aristotle’s Organon by Averroes; the remains of a Temple of Tutankhamun and the Ay from the Second Pylon of the Temple of Amun at Karnak; continuation of the excavation of the medieval Islamic site of Fustat (Old Cairo) by the Fustat Expedition of the American University in Cairo; medieval Islamic astronomy; excavation at Mendes; fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disciplines; archeological investigation at Qasr Ibrim, Egyptian Nubia; Quseir project; Naukratis project.
American Schools of Oriental Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Excava-
tions in salient areas of Punic and Roman Carthage (Tunisia); the Wadi Tumilat project (Egypt).
California State University, Hayward, California. Edition and translation of Ibn Ridman’s On the Prevention of Bodily Ills in Egypt.
Columbia University, New York, New York. The sacred years: a village temple in South India and its function as a focus of art and ritual performance in traditional society; the study, transcription and translation of popular narrative ballads of modern Egypt.
Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. Design theory in contemporary, traditional architecture of India.
Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire. The anthropology of music (India).
Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, Washington, D.C. A corpus of the mosaics of Tunisia.
Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Indo-American fellowship program.
Lehman College, Bronx, New York. Social anthropology of peasantry (India).
304 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 316>>>

Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio. Translation of selections from al-Kafi by Kulayni (Egypt).
Rutgers, the State University, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Urbanization in developing areas: the informal economy and capitalist penetration (India). Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt.
State University of New York at Binghampton, Binghampton, New York. Qsar Es-Seghir: an investigation in Islamic archeology and history (Morocco).
University of California, Berkeley, California. A program of archeological and faunal research in Pakistan: Balakot and Mohenjodaro; translation of the Arabic Tales of the Prophets (Egypt).
University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Change and development in nomadic societies (India).
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Second International Congress on Austroasiatic Linguistics (India).
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois. Medical anthropology; anthropology for the future (India).
University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky. Exploration of an early medieval settlement in the Kujawy Region (Upper Notec River) in Poland.
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. The story of medieval Egypt: al-Magrizi’s Topographical History (Egypt).
University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska. Prehistoric archeology development trip to Egypt.
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Anthropology and desertification; anthropology and food; the systems of settlement and sub-
sistence of the Harappan civilization during urban and posturban phases in Northwestern India; publication of Ancient Cities of the Indus.
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas. Population structures and human variations (India).
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Contemporary South Asian films project (India).
Washington State University, Pullman, Washington. Studies in predynastic Egypt.
Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu, Hawaii. A review of the Indian Ocean Ophiuroid collections at the Zoological Survey of India (Calcutta) and other institutions.
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Anthropological and paleontological research on fossil anthropoid sites of the Egyptian Oligocene.
Howard University, Washington, D.C. Cenozoic mammals of Pakistan; Cenozoic mammals of India.
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Dynamics of nitrogen in a mangrove system in Western India.
National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Revisions of Trimen’s Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon; biosystematic study of insects of Ceylon; a study of the biological productivity of some tropical lakes in South India;
Appendix 2. Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program / 305

<<<Page: 317>>>

the natural history of ground beetles at a temperate forest site, Bialowieza Primeval Forest, Poland; gene pools for Indian plants of economic value.
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida. Biological investigations of Clearwing moth relatives in Poland.
University of Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts. Reproductive biology of tropical forest trees in India.
University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida. Nitrogen fixation in mangrove soils in Western India.
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Studies on the molluscan genus Bulinus in Africa and other regions, intermediate hosts of Schistosoma haematobium; fossil mammals in Paleocene and Euocene continental sediments of Pakistan.
University of Texas at El Paso, El Paso, Texas. A systematic study of the Trionychid turtles in India.
Utah State University, Logan, Utah. Systems analysis of the Presaharan ecosystems of Southern Tunisia.
Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Hominoid evolution in South Asia and the origins of Hominidae (Pakistan).
International Solar Energy Society, Santa Clara, California. U.S. participation in the International Solar Energy Society Congress, New Delhi.
Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey. Research development trip to India for crustal geophysics.
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Continuation of operation of satellite tracking lasar system on Helwan Observatory in Egypt; continuation of Uttar Pradesh State Observatory/SAO at Naini Tal, India.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Defining Pliocene-Quarternary to recent sedimentation patterns on the Nile Cone (Egypt).
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Playa Lake studies, Nubian Desert, Egypt.
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Nucleosynthesis and the advanced stages of stellar evolution (Poland).
University of Denver, Denver, Colorado. A study of geomagnetic pulsations by using International Magnetospheric Study (IMS) magnetometer network in India.
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Field investigation of the geologic context of the present occurrence of Libyan Desert silica glass
(Egypt). University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Geodynamic evolution of Pakistan: deep seismic studies in Baluchistan and other selected regions.
Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, New York. African history media project (Egypt).
306 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 318>>>

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Museum professional exchange (India).
Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Museums program development.
The Puppeteers of America, New Orleans, Louisiana. Folk puppet traditions in Africa and Asia (Egypt, Guinea, India, Pakistan).
Appendix 2. Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program / 307

<<<Page: 319>>>

APPENDIX 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1978
American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee. Association of Science/Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.
National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C.
North Carolina State Museum of Natural History, Raleigh, North Carolina. Washington Conservation Guild, Washington, D.C.
Barbara H. Christen, Institute of Archaeology, University of London, London, England.
Richard K. Dozier, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C.
Natalie Firnhaber, Institute of Archaeology, University of London, London, England.
Helen Ganiacis, Art Conservation Programme, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
Mark Richardson Gilberg, Institute of Archaeology, University of London, London, England.
Alexander W. Katlan, Rosary College Graduate School of Fine Arts, Florence, Italy.
Christine Leback, Art Conservation Program, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware.
Jean A. Madsen, The Science Museum of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota. Harold F. Mailand, Indianapolis Museum of Art, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Geoffrey Martin, Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, New York, New York.
Barbara Gina McKay, The Whitney Museum, New York, New York. Andrea Mones, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C. Deborah Ritzenberg, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C.
Marian E. Rodee, Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
308 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 320>>>

Gina-Marie Romeo, University of Cambridge, Whittlesford, England.
Julia Meredith Seton, Institute of Archaeology, University of London, London, England.
Linda Gale Scheifler, Art Conservation Programme, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
Susan Tate, College of Architecture, Gainesville, Florida. Zahira Veriz, Intermuseum Laboratory, Oberlin, Ohio.
Evie Zachariades-Holmberg, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.
Conservation Center Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, New York, New York.
Cooperstown Graduate Programs, Cooperstown, New York. The George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
The Museum of Early Southern Decorative Arts, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
The Regents of the University of California, Los Angeles, California. University of Delaware, The Hagley Program, Wilmington, Delaware.
University of Delaware, The Winterthur Program in Early American Culture, Newark, Delaware.
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut.
The American Museum of Natural History, New York, New York. Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C. Cooperstown Graduate Programs, Cooperstown, New York.
The Hagley Museum, Greenville-Wilmington, Delaware.
The Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
The New York Zoological Society, Bronx, New York.
The Pierpont Morgan Library, New York, New York.
Rochester Museum and Science Center, Rochester, New York. University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware.
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut.
Apendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 309

<<<Page: 321>>>

Nancy K. Hall-Duncan, International Museum of Photography, Rochester, New York.
Ellen Jacobowitz, Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Linda Konheim Kramer, The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York, New York.
Frederick Lamp, Museum of African Art, Washington, D.C. Marjorie Swain, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
C. Tung Wu, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.
James P. Bacon, The Zoological Society of San Diego, San Diego, California. Stephen P. Crisafulli, The New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York. Imelda DeGraw, Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colorado.
Lynne Hollingshead, Semitic Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Nobuko Kajitani, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York.
Marsha MacDowell and Kurt Dewhurst, The Museum, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan.
Christine J. Niezgoda, Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, Illinois. Barclay W. Ogden, The Newberry Library, Chicago, Illinois.
Leslie Smith, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.
Lotus Stack, The Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis, Minnesota. John Strother, The University of California, Berkeley, California.
Terry Jane Tegarden, Asia House Gallery, New York, New York.
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York.
The School of Textiles, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina.
Alaska State Museum, Juneau, Alaska. American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee.
Association of Systematics Collections, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas.
Midwest Museums Conference, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
310 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 322>>>

Mountain Plains Museums Conference, Fort Worth, Texas. Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.
National Center of Afro-American Artists, Boston, Massachusetts. National Conservation Advisory Council, Washington, D. C.
New England Museums Conference, Lincoln, Massachusetts. Northeast Museums Conference, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Southeastern Museums Conference, Newport News, Virginia.
Western Regional Museums Conference, Fresno, California.
Apendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 311

<<<Page: 323>>>

APPENDIX 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1978
John Beardsley. Probing the Earth: Contemporary Land Projects. 111 pages, 1 color and 67 black-and-white illustrations. January 16, 1978. $15.00.
Don H. Berkebile. Carriage Terminology: An Historical Dictionary. 488 pages, 1 color and 539 black-and-white illustrations. August 21, 1978. $35.00.
Bill Blackbeard and Martin Williams. The Smithsonian Collection of Newspaper Comics. 336 pages, 96 color and 667 black-and-white illustrations. April 19, 1978. Paper: $12.50; Cloth: $27.50.
Andrew J. Cosentino. The Paintings of Charles Bird King (1785-1862). 214 pages, 5 color and 300 black-and-white illustrations. January 12, 1978. $22.50.
Margaret C. S. Christman. Fifty American Faces from the Collection of the National Portrait Gallery. 256 pages, 9 color and 42 black-and-white illustrations. September 11, 1978. $25.00.
Stillman Drake, translator. Galileo Galilei: Operations of the Geometric and Military Compass, 1606. 95 pages, 50 black-and-white illustrations. September 27, 1978. Paper: $5.95.
Stevan A. Grant, for the Kennan Institute. Edited by Zdenick V. David. Scholar’s Guide to Washington, D.C., for Russian/Soviet Studies. xii + 404 pages. October 26, 1977. Paper: $5.95; Cloth: $19.95.
Devra G. Kleiman, editor. The Biology and Conservation of the Callitrichidae. vi + 354 pages, 57 black-and-white illustrations. September 11, 1978. Paper: $8.95; Cloth: $15.00.
Abram Lerner. Gregory Gillespie. 112 pages, 20 color and 53 black-and-white illustrations. July 15, 1978. $16.50.
Luis G. Lumbreras. The Peoples and Cultures of Ancient Peru. Translated by Betty J. Meggers. Third reprint. December 16, 1977. Paper: $9.95; Cloth: $19.95.
J. Meester and H. W. Setzer, editors. The Mammals of Africa: An Identification Manual. 432 pages in a three-ring binder. September 14, 1978. $40.00.
Robert C. Mikesh. Excalibur III: The Story of a P-51 Mustang. 84 pages, 125 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $4.95.
Judith Zilczer. The Noble Buyer: John Quinn, Patron of the Avant-Garde. 199 pages, 27 color and 97 black-and-white illustrations. July 1, 1978. $20.00.
Edward S. Ayensu and Robert A. DeFilipps. Endangered and Threatened Plants of the United States. 403 pages, illustrated. February 1978. $17.50.
312 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 324>>>

Hans Hollein. MANtransFORMS. 172 pages, illustrated. November 1977. Paper: $5.95.
Rosie Lee Hooks. Black People and Their Culture: Selected Writings from the African Diaspora. 141 pages, illustrated. February 1978. Paper: $3.95.
George J. Jacobs. Russian-English/English-Russian Dictionary of Vertebrate Zoology. 64 pages. September 1978. Paper: $4.25.
Peter C. Marzio. The Men and Machines of American Journalism: A Pictorial Essay. 144 pages, illustrated. November 1977. Paper: $3.95.
Staff of the National Air and Space Museum Library, editors. International Handbook of Aerospace Awards and Trophies. 252 pages, illustrated. August 1978. Paper: $15.00.
R. M. McDowall. New Zealand Freshwater Fishes. 230 pages, illustrated. September 1978. $27.50.
Oskar Theodor. Diptera Pupipara. 169 pages, illustrated. April 1978. $25.00.
. On the Structure of the Spermathecae and Aedeagus in the Asilidae and Their Importance in the Systematics of the Family. 175 pages, illustrated. April 1978. $25.00.
American Historical Association. Annual Report, 1976. viii + 172 pages. October 28, 1977.
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies. Annual Report, 1977. 16 pages. September 15, 1978.
Smithsonian Institution. Smithsonian Year, 1977. Programs and Activities. October 1, 1976, through September 30, 1977. viii + 459 pages, 71 black-andwhite illustrations. June 1978.
. Smithsonian Year, 1977. Statement by the Secretary. 72 pages, 16 black-and-white illustrations. May 1978.
EXHIBITION CATALOGUES Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
D.C. Art Association Exhibition ’78. 48 pages, 53 black-and-white illustrations. December 6, 1977. Phil Ratner’s Washington. 64 pages, 53 black-and-white illustrations. March 2, 1978.
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Cross-Currents: Neoclassical Drawings and Prints from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Design. 144 pages, 142 black-and-white illustrations. September 27, 1978.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
John Beardsley. Probing the Earth: Contemporary Land Projects. 111 pages, 1 color and 67 black-and-white illustrations. October 19, 1977. Paper: $6.25.
Frank Gettings. George Grosz. 48 pages, 55 black-and-white illustrations. September 14, 1978. Paper: $2.50.
Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 313

<<<Page: 325>>>

Abram Lerner. Gregory Gillespie. 112 pages, 20 color and 53 black-and-white illustrations. December 16, 1977. Paper: $8.50.
Judith Zilczer. The Noble Buyer: John Quinn, Patron of the Avant-Garde. 199 pages, 27 color and 97 black-and-white illustrations. June 2, 1978. Paper: $7.25.
The Animal in Art. 16 pages, 50 black-and-white illustrations. November 15, 1977. Paper: $1.50.
National Collection of Fine Arts
Andrew J. Cosentino. The Paintings of Charles Bird King (1785-1862). 214 pages, 5 color and 300 black-and-white illustrations. November 7, 1977. Paper: $8.00.
Attilio Salemme: Inhabitant of a Dream. 64 pages, 2 color and 50 black-andwhite illustrations. April 14, 1978. Paper: $5.75.
Collages by Irwin Kremen. 48 pages, 11 color and 44 black-and-white illustrations. September 5, 1978. Paper: $3.90.
Contemporary Art from Alaska. 64 pages, 56 black-and-white illustrations. June 30, 1978. Paper: $3.50.
Mary Cassatt: Pastels and Color Prints. 38 pages, 4 color and 26 black-andwhite illustrations. February 23, 1978. Paper: $5.00.
Raphael Soyer: Drawings and Watercolors. 40 pages, 2 color and 25 blackand-white illustrations. November 16, 1977. Paper: $3.50. National Portrait Gallery
Margaret C. S. Christman. Fifty American Faces from the Collection of the National Portrait Gallery. 256 pages, 9 color and 42 black-and-white illustrations. August 14, 1978. Paper: $5.50.
Harold Francis Pfister. Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreotypes. 378 pages, 327 black-and-white illustrations. September 11, 1978. Paper: $10.25.
Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts
John C. Ewers. Murals in the Round: Painted Tipis of the Kiowa and KiowaApache Indians. 54 pages, 18 color and 30 black-and-white illustrations. July 13, 1978. Paper: $3.00.
Susan Peterson. Maria Martinez: Five Generations of Potters. 48 pages, 38 black-and-white illustrations. August 14, 1978. Paper: $4.00. Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Theodore E. Stebbins, Jr. Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church. ix + 110 pages, 15 color and 122 black-and-white illustrations. September 13, 1978.
22 Polish Textile Artists. 64 pages, 44 black-and-white illustrations. October 19, 1977.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Kendall Taylor. Philip Evergood: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. 16 pages, 1 color and 9 black-and-white illustrations. August 1, 1978. Paper: $1.00.
314 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 326>>>

National Collection of Fine Arts
New Ways with Paper. 20 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. February 1, 1978.
The Paintings of Charles Bird King. 12 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. November 7, 1977.
Where Shadows Live: Alice Pike Barney and Her Friends. 24 pages, 8 blackand-white illustrations. January 20, 1978. Paper: $1.00.
National Museum of History and Technology
Deborah Warner. Women in Science. 16 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. September 15, 1978.
Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts The Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd Wright. 18 pages, 14 black-and-white illustrations. December 15, 1977. Paper: $1.10.
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
The Anacostia Story. xxviii + 158 pages, 4 color and 116 black-and-white illustrations. Reprint. November 21, 1977. Paper: $8.95.
National Air and Space Museum
Robert C. Mikesh. Excalibur III. 76 pages, 12 color and 125 black-and-white illustrations. July 20, 1978. Paper: $4.95.
Handbook of Awards and Trophies in Aerospace. 250 pages, 8 black-andwhite illustrations. July 21, 1978. Paper: $15.00.
National Collection of Fine Arts
Federick C. Moffatt. Arthur Wesley Dow, 1857-1922. 160 pages, 4 color and 99 black-and-white illustrations. October 26, 1977. Paper: $5.50.
National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution. 40 pages, 45 blackand-white illustrations. June 14, 1978. Paper: $4.25.
National Museum of History and Technology
Stillman Drake, Translator. Galileo Galilei: Operations of the Geometric and Military Compass, 1606. 96 pages, 50 black-and-white illustrations. September 20 OTS.
National Museum of Natural History
Paul D. Hurd, Jr. An Annotated Catalog of the Carpenter Bees of the Western Hemisphere. iv + 106 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. August 14, 1978.
George G. Jacobs. Dictionary of Vertebrate Zoology: Russian/English, English/Russian. 48 pages. July 24, 1978. Paper: $4.50.
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History, Art, Science. 152 pages. Reprint. September 26, 1978.
Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 315

<<<Page: 327>>>

Radiation Biology Laboratory Solar Radiation Measurements/1976-1977. 56 pages. August 18, 1978. Smithsonian Institution Archives
Guide to the Smithsonian Archives. xxviii + 298 pages. September 9, 1978.
BOOKLETS National Collection of Fine Arts
Education Programs. 18 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. Reprint. December 15, 1977.
National Museum of History and Technology
Tobia Frankel. Timekeepers: From Sundials to Atomic Clocks. 12 pages, 31 black-and-white illustrations. December 14, 1977. Paper: $.85.
Elizabeth M. Harris. How Presses Print. 16 pages, 36 black-and-white illustrations. December 12, 1977. Paper: $.85.
Michael Harris. Drugs and Their Dispensers. 12 pages, 54 black-and-white illustrations. April 4, 1978. Paper: $.85.
John White. Steam Locomotives. 16 pages, 29 black-and-white illustrations. December 12, 1977. Paper: $.85.
National Portrait Gallery
National Portrait Gallery. 12 pages, 21 black-and-white illustrations. May 8, 1978.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: Learning Opportunities for Schools. 30 pages, 44 black-and-white illustrations. August 31, 1978.
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Institution, Welcome. 16 pages. April 20, 1978. Reprinted July 26, 1978.
Office of Museum Programs
National Museum Act Guidelines for 1978 Grant Programs. 32 pages. October 201977
National Museum Act Guidelines for 1979 Grant Programs. 32 pages. June 15, 1978.
Smithsonian Institution, Office of Museum Programs, Workshop Series, 19781979. 16 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. March 14, 1978.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
What's in a Map? 12 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. Reprint. January 31, 1978.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden The Noble Buyer: John Quinn, Patron of the Avant-Garde. June 13, 1978.
316 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 328>>>

National Air and Space Museum
Langley’s Aerodrome. Reprint. September 6. 1978. To Fly. Reprint. September 1, 1978.
National Collection of Fine Arts
National Collection of Fine Arts: A Museum of American Art. Reprint. January 24, 1978.
National Museum of History and Technology
Atom Smashers: Fifty Years. November 15, 1977.
A Handicapped Visitor's Guide to the National Museum of History and Technology. August 15, 1978.
Railroad Hall. Reprint. May 24, 1978. Walk-Around Needlework. October 18, 1977. $1.00. Welcome to the National Museum of History and Technology. June 15, 1978.
National Museum of Natural History
The National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution. Reprint. March 30, 1978.
National Portrait Gallery
Catalog of American Portraits. April 3, 1978. Portrails, I. April 3, 1978. Portrails, II. April 3, 1978.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Art to Zoo. Newsletter published several times a year.
Let’s Go to the Smithsonian! Bulletin published several times a year. Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts
Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Reprint. August 12, 1978.
National Collection of Fine Arts Attilio Salemme. February 16, 1978. Contemporary Art from Alaska. May 25, 1978. Discover Graphics at the National Collection of Fine Arts. September 8, 1978. First Ten Years in the Old Patent Office Building. April 13, 1978. Mary Cassatt: Pastels and Color Prints. January 24, 1978. Paintings of Charles Bird King. October 3, 1977. Past and Present: A Century-and-a-Half of a National Collection. May 5, 1978. Perceptions and Evocations; The Art of Elihu Vedder. September 18, 1978. Ronald Pearson: Silver and Gold. April 17, 1978.
Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 317

<<<Page: 329>>>

National Portrait Gallery
Facing the Light. August 29, 1978. National Portrait Gallery, Tenth Anniversary Dinner. August 29, 1978.
Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts
Maria Martinez: Five Generations of Potters. March 3, 1978. Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd Wright. November 29, 1977. The Harmonious Craft and New Stained Glass. September 1, 1978.
23. Robert M. Laughlin. “Of Cabbages and Kings: Tales from Zinacantan.” 427 pages, 11 figures and frontispice, 8 maps. December 16, 1977.
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY 38. Mason E. Hale, Jr. ““A Revision of the Lichen Family Thelotremataceae in Panama.” 60 pages, 15 figures. May 1, 1978.
39. F. Raymond Fosberg. “Studies in the Genus Boerhavia L. (Nyctaginaceae) 1-5.” 20 pages. May 12, 1978.
21. Roy S. Clark, Jr., and Joseph I. Goldstein. “Schreibersite Growth and Its Influence on the Metallography of Coarse-Structured Iron Meteorites.” 80 pages, 28 figures, 20 tables. April 14, 1978.
2. David L. Pawson. “The Echinoderm Fauna of Ascension Island, South Atlantic Ocean.” 31 pages, 11 figures. May 1, 1978.
32. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant. “Permian Brachiopods of West Texas, VI.” 209 pages, 2 tables. October 6, 1977.
34. Porter M. Kier and Mary Hurd Lawson. “Index of Living and Fossil Echinoids, 1924-1970.” 182 pages. February 10, 1978.
35. Storrs L. Olson. “A Lower Eocene Frigatebird from the Green River Formation of Wyoming (Pelecaniformes: Fregatbidae).” 33 pages, 31 figures. October Un SEV/Y/-,
249. Rasanayagam Rudan. “Socioecology of the Blue Monkeys (Cercopithecus mitis stuhlmanni) of the Kibale Forest, Uganda.” 88 pages, 34 figures, 58 tables. April 11, 1978.
250. Louis S. Kornicker and Francisca Elena Caraion. “West African Myodocopid Ostracoda (Sarsidellidae, Rutidermatidae).” 110 pages, 59 figures, 33 plates, 2 tables. February 10, 1978.
318 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 330>>>

251. Donald R. Davis. “A Revision of the North American Moths of the Superfamily Eriocranioidea with the Proposal of a New Family, Acanthopterocetetidae (Lepidoptera).” 131 pages, 344 figures, 6 maps, 3 tables. August 18, 1978.
253. Arthur G. Humes. “Lichomolgid Copepods (Cyclopoida) Associated with Fungiid Corals (Scleractinia) in the Moluccas.” 48 pages, 30 figures, 1 table. January 11, 1978.
254. Robert R. Warner and D. Ross Robertson. “Sexual Patterns in the Labroid Fishes of the Western Caribbean, I: The Wrasses (Labridae).” 27 pages, 11 figures, 7 tables. June 21, 1978.
255. D. Ross Robertson and Robert R. Warner. “Sexual Patterns in the Labroid Fishes of the Western Caribbean, II: The Parrotfishes (Scaridae).” 26 pages, 12 figures, 6 tables. May 1, 1978.
256. David Judkins. “Pelagic Shrimps of the Sergestes edwardsii Species Group (Crustacea: Decapoda: Sergestidae).” 34 pages, 21 figures, 4 tables. May 18, 1978.
257. Nicholas Smythe. “The Natural History of the Central American Agouti (Dasyprocta punctata).” 52 pages, 25 figures, 2 tables. March 31, 1978.
258. Raymond B. Manning. “Notes on Some Species of the Falcatus Group of Gonodactylus (Crustacea: Stomatopoda: Gonodactylidae).” 15 pages, 13 figures. March 31, 1978.
259. Raymond B. Manning. “Synopeses of the Indo-West-Pacific Species of Lysiosquilla Dana, 1852 (Crustacea: Stomatopoda: Lysiosquillidae).” 16 pages, 13 figures. March 31, 1978.
260. Louis S. Kornicker. “Harbansus, a New Genus of Marine Ostracoda, and a Revision of the Philomedidae (Myodocopina).” 75 pages, 37 figures, 16 plates, 2 tables. June 5, 1978.
261. W. Donald Duckworth and Thomas D. Eichlin. “The Type-Material of Central and South American Clearwing Moths (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae).” 28 pages. March 31, 1978.
262. Ernest A. Lachner and James F. McKinney. “A Revision of the IndoPacific Fish Genus Gobiopsis with Descriptions of Four New Species (Pisces: Gobiidae).” 52 pages, 7 figures, 11 plates, 8 tables. May 24, 1978.
263. Stanley H. Weitzman. “Three New Species of Fishes of the Genus Nannostomus from the Brazilian States of Para and Amasonaas (Teleostei: Lebiasinidae).” 14 pages, 10 figures. March 31, 1978.
264. Raymond B. Manning. “New and Rare Stomatopod Crustacea from the Indo-West-Pacific Region.” 36 pages, 16 figures. April 4, 1978.
265. Lang Elliott. “Social Behavior and Foraging Ecology of the Eastern Chipmunk (Tamias striatus) in the Adirondack Mountains of New York.” 107 pages, 52 figures and frontispiece, 30 tables. May 12, 1978.
266. John R. Holsinger. “Systematics of the Subterranean Amphipod Genus Stygobromus (Crangonyctidae), Part II: Species of the Eastern United States.” 144 pages, 77 figures, 4 tables. May 30, 1978.
267. Gayle A. Heron and David M. Damkaer. “Seven Lubbockia Species (Copepoda: Cyclopoida) from the Plankton of the Northeast Pacific, with a Review of the Genus.” 36 pages, 22 figures, 2 tables. June 29, 1978.
268. Victor G. Springer and August E. Spreitzer. “Five New Species and a New Genus of Indian Ocean Blenniid Fishes, Tribe Salariini, with a Key to Genera of the Tribe.” 20 pages, 11 figures, 4 tables. April 11, 1978.
Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Press / 319

<<<Page: 331>>>

270. Victor G. Springer. “Synonymization of the Family Oxudercidae, with Comments on the Identity of Apocryptes cantoris Day (Pisces: Gobiidae).” 13 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables. April 4, 1978.
272. Raymond B. Manning. “Further Observations on Oratosquilla, with Accounts of Two New Genera and Nine New Species (Crustacea: Stomatopoda: Squillidae).” 44 pages, 25 figures, 1 table. May 1, 1978.
274. Arthur H. Clarke. “Polymorphism in Marine Mollusks and Biome Development.” 15 pages, 5 figures. March 31, 1978.
275. Thomas E. Bowman. “Revision of the Pelagic Amphipod Genus Primno (Hyperiidea: Phrosinidae).” 23 pages, 13 figures. June 29, 1978.
276. George R. Zug. “Anuran Locomotion—Structure and Function, 2: Jumping Performance of Semiaquatic, Terrestrial, and Arboreal Frogs.” 31 pages, 9 figures, 15 tables. September 14, 1978.
277. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., and Lipke B. Holthuis. “Psalidopus: The ScissorFoot Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda: Caridea).” 22 pages, 14 figures and frontispiece. August 2, 1978.
278. Clyde F. E. Roper and Michael J. Sweeney. “A Catalog of the Type-Specimens of Recent Cephalopoda in the National Museum of Natural History.” 19 pages. August 16, 1978.
280. Roman Kenk. “The Planarians (Turbellaria: Tricladia Paludicola) of Lake Ohrid in Macedonia.” 56 pages, 57 figures. September 20, 1978.
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 36. Uta Merzbach. “Georg Scheutz and the First Printing Calculator.” 74 pages, 35 figures. November 11, 1977.
40. Arthur H. Frazier. “United States Standards of Weights and Measures: Their Creation and Creators.” 21 pages, 10 figures. May 30, 1978.
1. Farouk El-Baz. “Astronaut Observations from the Apollo-Soyuz Mission.” 400 pages, 280 figures, 11 tables. December 22, 1977.
220. S. V. Smith, editor. “Coral Reef Ecosystems: Proceedings of Papers Presented at the 13th Pacific Science Congress, Vancouver.” 113 pages, 27 figures, 8 tables. September 15, 1978.
221. S. V. Smith and R. S. Henderson, editors. “Phoenix Islands Report, I: An Environmental Survey of Canton Atoll Lagoon, 1973.” 183 pages, 46 figures, 25 tables. September 15, 1978.
320 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 332>>>

APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1978
Publications are by staff members unless otherwise indicated.
National Anthropological Film Center
Balikci, A.; Newman, D.; and Asch, T. Sons of Haji Omar, Part III: At the High Mountain Camp and Buzkashi. Produced by E. Richard Sorenson and Mike McKennirey. Produced jointly by National Anthropological Film Center, Washington, D.C., and National Film Board of Canada, Montreal, 1978.
Sorenson, E. Richard. “Cooperation and Freedom among the Fore of New Guinea.” In Learning Non-Aggression: The Experience of Non-Literate Societies, edited by A. Montague. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1978.
. “Growing up as a Fore.” In Readings in Human Development, edited
by C. Torniero. Guilford, Conn.: Dushkin Publishing Group, 1978.
. “Phenomenological Inquiry in Ethnobotanical Studies.” In Drugs,
Rituals, and Altered States of Consciousness, edited by Brian DuTroit.
Rotterdam: A. A. Balkema, 1977.
Correll, D. L. “Estuarine Productivity.” BioScience 28, no. 10 (October 1978): 646-50.
. “Relationship of Land Use to Water Quality in the Chesapeake Bay
Region.” In Application of Remote Sensing to the Chesapeake Bay Region,
vol. 2, pp. 117-87. Proceedings of the National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration Conference Publication 6.
. “Endangered Receiving Waters: Runoff Monitoring as a Tool to Determine Sources and Magnitudes of Pollution.” In United Nations, Economic and Social Council, International Hydrologic Program Casebook on Results from Representative and Experimental Basins. Forthcoming.
Correll, D. L.; Faust, M. A.; and Pierce, J. W. Non-Point Source Studies on Chesapeake Bay: VIII. Preliminary Tests of the Application of Rhode River Statistical Models to Patuxent River Subwatersheds. Chesapeake Research Consortium, no. 61. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University.
Correll, David L.; Pierce, J. W.; and Wu, T. L. “Studies of the Transport of Altrazine and AlaChlor from Minimum Till Cornfields into Chesapeake Bay
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 321

<<<Page: 333>>>

gee Waters.” In Proceedings of the Northeastern Weed Science Society,
vol. 32.
. “Herbicide and Submerged Plants in Chesapeake Bay.” In Coastal Zone ‘78. Symposium on Technical, Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Regulatory Aspects of Coastal Zone Management, edited by O. T. Magoon et al., vol. 2, pp. 858-77. New York: American Society of Civil Engineers, 1978.
Falk, John H.; Martin, W. W.; and Balling, J. D. “The Novel Trip Phenomenon: Adjustment to Novel Settings Interferes with Task Learning.” Journal of Research in Science Teaching (1978): 127-34.
Faust, Maria A., and Goff, N. M. “Sources of Bacterial Pollution in an Estuary.” In Coastal Zone ’78. Symposium on Technical, Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Regulatory Aspects of Coastal Zone Management, edited by O. T. Magoon et al., vol. 2, pp. 819-39. New York: American Society of Civil Engineers, 1978.
Friebele, E. S.; Correll, D. L.; and Faust, M. A. “The Relationship between Phytoplankton Cell Size and the Rate of Orthophosphate Uptake: In Situ Observations of an Estuarine Population.” Marine Biology 45 (1978): 39-52.
Good, R. E.; Whigham, D. F.; and Simpson, R. L. Freshwater Wetlands: Ecological Processes and Management Potential. New York: Academic Press, 1978.
Lynch, James F., and Wake, D. B. ““A New Species of Chiropterotriton (Amphibia: Candata) from Baja Verapaz, Guatemala, with Comments on Relationships among Central American Members of the Genus.” In Natural History Museum, Los Angeles County, Contributions to Science, no. 294, pp. 1-22.
Lynch, James F., and Whitcomb, R. F. “Effects of Insularization of the Eastern Deciduous Forest on Avifaunal Diversity and Turnover.” In Proceedings of the National Symposium on the Classification, Inventory, and Analysis of Fish and Wildlife Habitat. Forthcoming.
Lynch, James F.; Yang, S. Y.; and Papenfuss, T. J. “Studies of Neotropical Salamanders of the Genus Pseudoeurycea |: Systematic Status of Pseudoeurycea ungidentia.” Herpetologica 33 (1977): 46-52.
Pogell, S. M. “Bay Center Studies Effect of Habitat Disruption on Birds.” Smithsonian Institution Research Reports (Summer 1978): 1-2.
Simpson, R. L.; Whigham, D. F.; and Branningan, K. ‘The Mid-Summer Insect Communities of Freshwater Tidal Wetland Macrophytes.” Bulletin of the New Jersey Academy of Sciences, in press.
Simpson, R. L.; Whigham, D. F.; and Walker, R. “Nutrient Movement in Freshwater Tidal Wetlands with Special Reference to Delaware River Wetlands.” In Freshwater Wetlands: Ecological Processes and Management Potential, edited by R. E. Good, D. F. Whigham, and R. L. Simpson, pp. 243-58. New York: Academic Press, 1978.
Sullivan, J. Kevin; Cronin, L. E.; Gross, M. G.; and Lynch, M. P. “The Condition of the Chesapeake Bay.” In Proceedings of the Bi-State Conference on Chesapeake Bay, 1978.
““Non-Point Source Pollution in Chesapeake Bay.” In Proceedings of the Bi-State Conference on Chesapeake Bay, 1978.
Wake, D. B., and Lynch, J. F. “The Distribution, Ecology, and Evolutionary History of Plethodontid Salamanders in Tropical America.” In Natural History Museum, Los Angeles County, Contributions to Science, no. 25, pp. 1-65.
Whigham, D. F.; McCormick, J.; Good, R. E.; and Simpson, R. L. “Biomass and Primary Production of Freshwater Tidal Wetlands.” In Freshwater Wetlands: Ecological Processes and Management Potential, edited by R. E. Good, D. F. Whigham, and R. L. Simpson, pp. 3-20. New York: Academic Press, 1978.
Whigham, D. F., and Simpson, R. L. “Growth, Mortality, and Biomass Partitioning of Freshwater Tidal Wetland Populations of Wild Rice (Zizania
322 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 334>>>

aquatica var aquatica).” Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club 104 (1977):
347-51.
. “Nitrogen and Phosphorus Movement in a Freshwater Tidal Wetland
Receiving Sewage Effluent.” In Coastal Zone ’78. Symposium on Technical,
Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Regulatory Aspects of Coastal Zone
Management, edited by O. T. Magoon et al., vol. 2, pp. 2189-203. New
York: American Society of Civil Engineers, 1978.
. “The Relationship between Aboveground and Belowground Biomass Relationships of Freshwater Tidal Wetland Macrophytes.” Aquatic Botany, in press.
Whigham, D. F.; Simpson, R. L.; and Lee, K. “The Effect of Sewage Effluent on the Structure and Function of a Freshwater Tidal Marsh Ecosystem.” In Annual Report, Fiscal Year 1977. New Jersey Water Resources Research Institute, pp. 59-62. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University, 1977.
Whitcomb, R. F.; Lynch, J. F.; Opler, P. A.; and Robbins, C. S. “Island Biogeography and Conservation: Strategy and Limitations.” Science 193 (1976): 1030-32.
Chia, F. S., and Rice, M. E., eds. Settlement and Metamorphosis of Marine Invertebrate Larvae. New York: Elsevier North Holland Press, 1978.
Gore, Robert H. “Larval Development of Galathea rostrata under Laboratory Conditions, with a Discussion of Larval Development in the Galatheidae (Crustacea Anomura).” Fishery Bulletin, 76, no. 4, in press.
. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of
Florida. VII. A Field Character for Rapid Identification of the Swimming
Crabs Callinectes ornatus Ordway, 1863, and C. similis Williams, 1966
(Brachyura: Portunidae).” Northeast Gulf Science 1, no. 2 (1977): 119-23.
. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of
Florida. VI. The Identity of Parthenope (Platylambrus) serrata (H. Milne
Edwards, 1834) and Parthenope (Platylambrus) granulata (Kingsley, 1879).”
In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp.
505-31, 1977.
. “Zygopa michaelis Holthuis, 1960: A First Record and Range Exten-
sion to the Continental United States (Decapoda Anomura, Albuneidae).”
Crustaceana 33, no. 2 (1977): 219-321.
. “Neopisosoma angustifrons (Benedict, 1901): The Complete Larval Development under Laboratory Conditions, with Notes on Larvae of the Related Genus Pachycheles (Decapoda Anomura, Porcellanidae).” Crustaceana 33, no. 3 (1977): 284-300.
Gore, Robert H.; Kulczycki, G.; and Hastings, P. “A Second Occurrence of the Brazilian Freshwater Shrimp, Potimirim potimirim, along the Central Eastern Florida Coast.” Florida Scientist 41, no. 1 (1978): 57-62.
Gore, Robert H., and Wilson, K. A. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of Florida. X. A First Continental Record for Discias atlanticus Gurney, 1939 (Caridea, Disciadidae).” Crustaceana, in press.
Pilger, John F. “Settlement and Metamorphosis in the Echiura: A Review.” In Settlement and Metamorphosis of Marine Invertebrate Larvae, edited by F. S. Chia and M. E. Rice. New York: Elsevier North Holland Press, 1978.
Rice, Mary E. “Morphological and Behavioral Changes at Metamorphosis in the Sipuncula.” In Settlement and Metamorphosis of Marine Invertebrate Larvae, edited by F. S. Chia and M. E. Rice. New York: Elsevier North Holland Press, 1978.
Ruppert, E. E. “The Reproductive System of Gastortrichs. II. Insemination in Macrodasys, a Unique Mode of Sperm Transfer in Metazoa.” Zoomorphologie 89 (1978a): 207-28.
. “The Reproductive System of Gastrotrichs. III. Genital Organs of
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 323

<<<Page: 335>>>

Thausastodermatinae Subfam. n. and Diplodasyinae Subfam. n. with Discussion of Reproduction in Macrodasyida.” Zoologica Scripta 7 (1978b), in press.
. “A Review and Metamorphosis of Turbellarian Larvae.” In Settlement and Metamorphosis of Marine Invertebrate Larvae, edited by F. S. Chia and M. E. Rice. New York: Elsevier North Holland Press, 1978.
Ruppert, E. E., and Shaw, K. “The Reproductive System of Gastrotrichs. I. Introduction with Morphological Data for Two New Dolichodasys Species.” Zoologica Scripta 6 (1977): 185-96.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
Andre, C. G.; Adler, I.; and Wolfe, R. W. ‘““Apollo-Soyuz Observations of Desert Environments.” In
Planetary Geology Field Conference on Aeolian Processes, edited by R.
Greeley and D. Black, pp. 57-58. National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration, TM-78, 455, 1978.
. “The Meaning of Desert Color in Earth Orbital Photographs.” Pho-
togrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing 44, no. 1 (January 1978):
69-75.
. Text accompanying photographs in Apollo over the Moon: A View
from Orbit, pp. 33-35, 58, 89, 96, 108, 117-18, 125, 149-51, 153-55, 208,
219a, 219b, 220-21, 254-55. National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
. “Some Comparisons of Eolian Features on Earth and Mars.” In Lunar
and Planetary Science IX, pt. 1, pp. 285-87. Houston: Lunar and Planetary
Institute, 1978.
. “Earth Photography by the Large Format Camera.” In Summaries;
Twelfth International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, p. 71.
Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1978.
. “Rihalat Al-Fada wa ma Asdathu Lil En-Saniya” : 26 (April 1978): 30-35.
. “Rihalat Al-Fada wa ma Asdathu Lil En-Saniya” “Crater Morphology and Subsurface Layering in Mare Crisium.” In Conference on Luna 24, pp. 204-6. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1978.
Wolfe, R. W., and Giese, R. F. “The Stability of Fluorine Analogs of Kaolinite.” Clays and Clay Minerals 26 (1978): 76-78.
Department of Aeronautics
Boyne, Walter J. “Huff Daland, Part I.” Airpower (November 1977).
. “Huff Daland, Part II.” Wings (December 1977).
. “Rotabuggy Man.” Wings (February 1978).
. “Howell Miller Story, Part I.” Airpower (March 1978).
. “Howell Miller Story, Part II.” Wings (April 1978).
. “Airplanes Famous and Obscure, #2.” Air and Space 1, no. 2
(April 1978): 11.
. “Airplanes Famous and Obscure, #3, Air and Space 1, no. 3
(May-June 1978): 7.
. “Airplanes Famous and Obscure, #4.” Air and Space 2, no. 1
(September—October 1978): 15.
. “Rare Planes—The Fernic.”” Wings (June 1978).
——.. “Martin B-51.” Airpower (July 1978).
. “The Joys of Flight.” Flight Time (July 1978).
. “Those Rare Birds.” Wings (August 1978).
. “More Rare Birds.” Airpower (September 1978).
Casey, Louis S. Naval Aircraft, 1914-1945. London: Phoebus Publishers, 1977.
. Float Planes. London: Phoebus Publishers, 1977.
Mikesh, Robert C. “Flying the Invader.” Air Enthusiast no. 7.
. Douglas B-26 Invader. Tokyo: Burindo Co., Ltd., 1977.
. Excalibur III, The Story of a P-51 Mustang. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Japanese Cockpit Interiors, Part II. Boylston, Mass.: Monogram Pub-
lications, 1978.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 325

<<<Page: 336>>>

. “Meet the Real Charles F. Blair.” Virgin Islander Magazine (July/
August 1978).
. “B-57 Canberra, Buy British, Fly American, Part III.” Wings (October 1978).
Spenser, Jay P. “Moskito.” Wings (February 1978).
. “Flak Bait! Biography of an Intrepid Marauder.” Airpower (Septem-
ber 1978).
Department of Astronautics
Crouch, Tom D. “General Aviation: The Search for a Market, 1919-1949.” In Two Hundred Years of Flight in America: A Bicentennial Survey, edited by E. M. Emme. San Diego: American Astronautical Society, 1977.
, ed. Charles A. Lindbergh: An American Life. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
Durant, F. C., II. “Astronautics.” In Funk and Wagnall Year Book. 1978.
. “Satellite Systems.” In Encyclopaedia Britannica Yearbook of Science and the Future. 1978.
Kennedy, Gregory. “The Space Shuttle—A Status Report.” Model Rocketeer (December 1977).
. “New Wardrobe for Space.” Model Rocketeer (January 1978).
. “The Space Shuttle—An Overview.” Model Rocketeer (June 1978).
Department of Science and Technology
Hallion, Richard P. “Commercial Aviation: From the Benoist Airboat to the SST, 1914-1976.” In Two Hundred Years of Flight in America: A Bicentennial Survey, edited by E. M. Emme. San Diego: American Astronautical Society, 1977.
. “Saga of the Rocket Ships.” Air Enthusiast 5 (1977).
. “The Exotic Birds of Dryden.” Aviation Quarterly 3, no. 4 (Fourth
Quarter, 1977).
. “Saga of the Rocket Ships: The X-15.” Air Enthusiast 6 (1978).
Hanle, Paul A. High Technology on Earth. Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space, no. 3. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
“Erwin Schroédinger’s Reaction to Louis de Broglie’s Thesis on
Quantum Theory.” Isis 68 (1977).
. “Memoirs of a Physicist in the Atomic Age, by W. M.
Elsasser.” Physics Today (August 1978).
. “The Physicists: The History of a Scientific Community in
Modern America, by Daniel J. Kevles.” Journal of American History (1978).
. “The Schrédinger-Einstein Correspondence and the Sources of Wave
Mechanics.” American Journal of Physics (1978)
Library
Scott, Catherine D. “Aerospace and Science-Fiction Reference Books, 1977— 78.’ In Specialists’ Choice. Washington, D.C.: District of Columbia Library Association, Reference Book Roundup, 1978.
Staff of the National Air and Space Museum Library, eds. International Handbook of Aerospace Awards and Trophies. Compiled under the sponsorship of the Aerospace Division, Special Library Association, and the National Air and Space Museum. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Department of Anthropology
Angel, J. Lawrence. “Porotic Hyperostosis in the Eastern Mediterranean.” MCV Quarterly 14, no. 1 (1978): 10-16.
326 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 337>>>

Evans, Clifford, and Meggers, Betty J. “Accomplishments of the Proyecto Andino de Estudios Arquelogicos, 1967-1971.” In National Geographic Research Reports, 1969 Projects, pp. 162-71. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1978.
. “Archaeology: South America.” In Handbook of Latin American Studies, vol. 39, pp. 73-109. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., and University of Florida, Gainesville, 1977.
Ewers, John C. Murals in the Round: Painted Tipis of the Kiowa and KiowaApache Indians. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 1978.
. “Notes on the Weasel in Historic Plains Indian Culture.” Plains An-
thropologist 22, no. 78 (November 1977): 253-92.
. “Plains Indians.” in Encyclopedia Americana, vol. 22, pp. 169-71, 1977.
. “Richard Sanderville, Blackfoot Indian Interpreter.” In American In-
dian Intellectuals, edited by Margot Liberty, pp. 116-26. Proceedings of the
American Ethnological Society for 1976. St. Paul: West Publishing Com-
pany, 1978.
. “Three Effigy Pipes by an Eastern Dakota Master Carver.” American
Indian Art Magazine (1978): 51-55.
, ed. Indian Art in Pipestone: George Catlin’s Portfolio in the British Museum. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Fitzhugh, William W. “Regional Repositories: A View from the Smithsonian.” In Missouri Archaeological Society Research Series, no. 14, pp. 18-19, 1977.
. “Indian and Eskimo/Inuit Settlement History in Labrador: An Ar-
cheological View.” In Our Footprints Are Everywhere: Inuit Land Use and
Occupancy in Labrador, pp. 1-14. Nain, Labrador: Labrador Inuit Associa-
tion, 1977.
. “Archaeological Material and Ethnic Identification: A Study
of Lappnol Material. from Varanger, Norway, by Else J. Kleppe.” Norwegian
Archaeological Review 10, no. 1-2 (1977): 49-51.
. “Some Developments in North European Prehistory in the
Period 1969-1976, by Carl-Axel Moberg.” Norwegian Archaeological Review
11, no. 1 (1978): 19-21.
. “Utilisation of Soapstone in Labrador by Indians, Eskimos, and
Norse.” Nature 271, no. 5642 (1978) : 237-39.
. Introduction to Prehistoric Maritime Adaptations of the Circumpolar
Zone, edited by William W. Fitzhugh, pp. 1-18. The Hague: Mouton Pub-
lishers, 1975.
. “A Comparative Approach to Northern Maritime Adaptations.” In Prehistoric Maritime Adaptations of the Circumpolar Zone, edited by William W. Fitzhugh, pp. 339-86. The Hague: Mouton Publishers, 1975.
Gibson, Gordon D., and McGurk, Cecilia R. “High-Status Caps of the Kongo and Mbundu Peoples.” Textile Museum Journal 4, no. 4 (1977): 71-96.
Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “A Further Note on Pidgin English.” International Journal of American Linguistics 44 (1978): 73.
. “The Sutaio Dialect of Cheyenne: A Discussion of the Evidence.” In
Papers of the Ninth Algonquian Conference, edited by William Cowan, pp.
68-80. Ottawa: Carleton University, 1978.
. “Technical Alphabet.” In California, edited by Robert F. Heizer. Hand-
book of North American Indians, vol. 8, pp. x-xi, William C. Sturtevant,
genrl. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
, linguistic ed. California, edited by Robert F. Heizer. Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 8, pp. x—xi, William C. Sturtevant, genrl. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
Koritzer, Richard T., and Levy, J. “Improved Penetration of Fluoride into Enamel.” Journal of Dental Research 57, special issue A (January 1978): 335.
. “A Modified Method of Fluoride Concentration Determination and
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 327

<<<Page: 338>>>

Minimal and Sample Dilution.” Journal of Dental Research 57, special issue A (January 1978): 238.
Liberty, Margot, and Sturtevant, William. “Appendix: Prospectus for a Collection of Studies on Anthropology by North American Indians.” In American Indian Intellectuals, edited by Margot Liberty, pp. 241-48. Proceedings of the American Ethnological Society for 1976. St. Paul: West Publishing Company, 1978.
Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford. “The Lowlands of South America and the Antilles.” In Ancient Native Americans, edited by Jesse Jennings, pp. 543-91. San Francisco: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1978.
“Las tierras bajas de suramérica y las antilles.” In Estudios Arqueo-
légicos, pp. 11-69. Quito: Centro de Investigaciones Arqueoldgicas, Edici-
ones de la Universidad Catolica, 1977.
. “Aspectos Arqueoldgicos de las Tierras Bajas de Suramérica y las Antillas.” Cuadernos del Cendia 258, no. 4 (1978): 1—40.
Norman, Jane. “Conserving Southwestern Pottery.” American Indian Art 3, no. 3 (1978): 70-72.
Ortner, D. J. “Culture Change in Bronze Age.” Smithsonian (August 1978): 82-87.
Phebus, George R. “The Smithsonian Institution 1934 Bonneville Reservoir Salvage Archeology Project.” In Northwest Anthropological Research Notes, vol. 12, no. 2. Moscow, Idaho: University of Idaho, 1978.
Phebus, George R., and Drucker, Robert. “Archeological Investigations at Seaside, Oregon.” In Seaside Historical Society. 1978.
Quilter, Sarah McAnulty, comp. Bhutan—Land of Dragons . Washington, D.C.: Office of Printing and Photographic Services, Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
Richman, E. A., and Ortner, D. J. “Intracortical Bone Remodeling in Three Aboriginal American Populations: Possible Dietary Factors in Differences.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 48 (1978): 429.
Riesenberg, Saul H.; Fischer, John L.; and Whiting, Marjorie C., trans, and eds. The Book of Luelen. Pacific History Series, vol. 8. Australia National University Press, 1977.
, trans. and eds. Annotation to the Book of Luelen. Pacific History Series, vol. 9. Australia National University Press, 1977.
Rose, Carolyn. “An Introduction to Museum Conservation.” American Indian Art 3, no. 1 (1977): 30-34.
Rose, Carolyn, and Dietze, Edith. “Examination and Stabilization of Two Bull Mummies.” Technology and Conservation 3, no. 1 (1978): 28-32.
Selig, Ruth O. “The Indian Legacy.” In The Smithsonian Experience, pp. 154— 63. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
Smith, Bruce D. “Archaeological Inference and Inductive Confirmation.” American Anthropologist 79 (1977): 598-617.
.“Faunal Analysis: Problems and Potential.” Journal of Field Archae-
ology 4 (1977): 131.
. Prehistoric Patterns of Human Behavior. New York: Academic Press,
1978.
. Mississippian Settlement Patterns. New York: Academic Press, 1978.
“Variation in Mississippian Settlement Patterns.” In Mississippian Settlement Patterns. New York: Academic Press, 1978.
Stanford, Dennis. “Comments of Push vs. Pull Technique of Lithic Reduction.” Flintknapers Exchange 1, no. 1 (1977): 20-22.
Stewart, T. D. “History of Physical Anthropology.” In Perspectives on Anthropology 1976, edited by A. F. C. Wallace et al., no. 11, pp. 70-79. Washington, D.C.: American Anthropological Association, 1977.
Stewart, T. D., and Spencer, F. “Paris on the Potomac: Ale’ Hrdlitka’s Vision of American Physical Anthropology.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 48 (1978): 440.
328 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 339>>>

Sturtevant, William C. “The Ethnological Evaluation of the Le Moyne-De Bry Illustrations.” In The Work of Jacques Le Moyne de Morgues, a Huguenot Artist in France, Florida, and England, vol. 1, pp. 69-74, 163-64, 185, 20414. London: British Museum Publications, Ltd., in association with the Huguenot Society of London, 1977.
. Guide to Field Collecting of Ethnographic Specimens. 2d ed. Smith-
sonian Information Leaflet 503. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution,
1977.
. “Collection Policies.” In Indian Notes, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 2-3. New
York: Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, 1978.
, genrl. ed. California. Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 8.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
. “The Sources of Lafitau’s American Illustrations.” In Customs of the American Indians Compared with Customs of Primitive Times, vol. 2, pp. 271-303. Toronto: Publications of the Champlain Society XLIX, 1978.
Trousdale, William. City in the Desert. The University of Michigan—Harvard University Excavations at Qasr al-Hayr, 2 volumes. Cambridge, Mass., 1978.
. “Where Ail the Swords Have Gone.” In Early China, vol. 3, pp. 65-66,
1977.
. “Problems of Retrieval and Retention of Artifacts in Field Excavations.” In Corrosion and Metal Artifacts: A Dialogue between Conservators and Archaeologists and Corrosion Scientists, pp. 179-89. Washington, D.C.: National Bureau of Standards, 1977.
Ubelaker, Douglas H. “Drilled Human Teeth from the Coast of Ecuador.” Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 67, no. 2 (1977): 83-85.
. “Reconstruccion Demogafica de Restos Oseos Prehistoricos.”” Annario
Cientifico, Universidad Central del Este, Republica Dominicana, 1, no. 1
(1977) : 167-77.
. “The Population of the California Indians, 1769-1970, by
Sherburne F. Cook.” American Historical Review (October 1977).
. “Human Skeletal Remains from Puerto Frances, Dominican Republic.”
Revista Dominicana de Antropologia y Historia 5 (1977): 187-88.
. “Population Variation in the Rate of Age Change within
Human Cortical Bone.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 48,
no. 3 (1978): 445.
“Human Skeletal Remains Excavation, Analysis, Interpretation.” Chicago: Aldine Publishing Company, 1978.
Ubelaker, Douglas H., and Willey, P. “Complexity in Arikara Mortuary Practice.” Plains Anthropologist 23 (1978): 69-74.
Viola, Herman J. Introduction to History of the Indian Tribes of North America by Thomas L. McKenney and James Hall, pp. ix—xxviii. New ed. Kent, Ohio: Volair Limited, 1978.
. “Fathers and Children: Andrew Jackson and the Subjuga-
tion of the American Indian, by Michael Paul Rogin.” Pacific Historical Re-
view (May 1978): 295-96.
“United States—Comanche Relations: The Reservation Years, by William T. Hagan.” Arizona and the West (Spring 1978): 65-66. Von Endt, David W. “Amino-acid Analysis of the Contents of a Vial Excavated at Axum, Ethiopia.” Journal of Archeological Science 4 (1977):
367-76.
Walsh, Jane M. John Peabody Harrington: The Man and His California Indian Fieldnotes. Anthropological Papers, no. 6. Calif.: Malki Museum and Ballena Press, 1978.
Wedel, Mildred M. “A Synonymy of Names for the Ioway Indians.” Journal of the Iowa Archeological Society 25 (1978): 49-77.
. “Location of La Harpe’s 1719 Post on Red River and Nearby Caddo
Settlements.” In Bulletin 26. Austin: Texas Memorial Museum, 1978.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 329

<<<Page: 340>>>

Wedel, Waldo R. “Mummy Cave—A Synopsis.” In The Mummy Cave Project in Northwestern Wyoming, pp. 21-32. Cody, Wyo.: Buffalo Bill Historical Center, 1978.
Wilcox, U. Vincent. “The Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation.” American Indian Art Magazine 3, no. 2 (1978): 40-49, 78-81.
. “Collections Management Meeting.” Council for Museum Anthro-
pology Newsletter 2, no. 4 (1978): 6-8.
Department of Botany
Austin, Daniel F.; Powell, Dulcie A.; and Nicholson, Dan H. “Stictocardia tiliifolia (Convolvulaceae) Revisited.” Brittonia 30 (May 1978): 195-98.
Ayensu, Edward S. “Conserving the African Environment.” Africa Report 23, no. 3 (1978): 14.
. Medicinal Plants of West Africa. New York: Reference Publications,
Inc., 1978.
. “Scanning Electron Microscopy of Epidermal Features in Erythrina (Fabaceae).” Lloydia 40, no. 5 (1977): 436-53.
Ayensu, Edward S., and DeFilipps, Robert A. Endangered and Threatened Plants of the United States. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution and World Wildlife Fund, Inc., 1978.
Bohlmann, F.; Mahanta, P. K.; Natu, A. A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “New Germacranolides from Isocarpha Species.” Phytochemistry 17 (1978): 471-74.
Cuatrecasas, J. “Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora. IX.” Phytologia 38, no. 1 (1977): 7-22.
. “Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora. X.” Phytologia 40, no. 1
(1978): 25-36.
. “Studies on Neotropical Senecioneae, Compositae. I, Reinstatement of Genus Lasiocephalus.” Phytologia 40, no. 4 (1978): 307-12.
Ernst, Carl H., and Norris, James N. “Observations on the Algal Genus Basicladia and the Red-Bellied Turtle, Chrysemys rubriventris.” Estuaries 1, no. 1 (1978): 54-57.
Eyde, R. H. “Reproductive Structures and Evolution in Ludwigia (Onagraceae). I. Androecium Placentation, Merism.” In Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden, vol. 64, pp. 644-55, 1977.
Fosberg, F. R. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring Islands: IV. A New Bulbostylis and Observations on Cyperus (Cyperaceae).” Kew Bulletin 31, no. 4 (1977): 829-35.
. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring
Islands: V. Pandanus tectorius Parkingson, Sensu Latissimo (Pandanaceae).”
Ken Bulletin 31, no. 4 (1977): 837-40.
. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring
Islands: VI. Portulaca (Portulacaceae) in the Aldabra Group.” Kew Bulletin
32, no. 1 (1977): 235-58.
. “Paspalum distichum Again.” Taxon 26, no. 2/3 (1977): 201-2.
. Studies in the Genus Boerhavia L. (Nyctaginaceae), 1-5. Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, no. 39. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Fosberg, F. R.; Boiteau, P.; and Sachet, M.-H. “Nomenclature of the Ochrosiinae (Apocynaceae): 2. Synonymy of Ochrosia Juss. and Neisosperma Raf.” Adansonia series 2 17, no. 1 (1977): 23-33.
Fosberg, F. R.; Falanruw, M. V. C.; and Sachet, M.-H. “Additional Records of Vascular Plants from the Northern Mariana Islands.” Micronesica 13, no. 1 (1977): 27-31.
Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. “Nomenclature of the Ochrosiinae (Apocynaceae): 1. Application of the Names Neisosperma Raf. and Calpicarpum G. Don.” Adansonia series 2 17, no. 1 (1977): 19-22.
330 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 341>>>

Fosberg, F. R.; Sachet, M.-H.; and Tsuda, Roy T. “Distribution of Seagrasses in Micronesia.” Micronesica 13, no. 2 (1977): 191-98.
Fosberg, F. R.; Stoddart, David R.; and Sachet, M.-H. “Island News and Comment.” Atoll Research Bulletin 219 (1977): 1-30.
Gautier, T. Gary; Shetler, Stanwyn G.; and Black, Craig. “Data Processing in Natural History Museums.” In Proceedings of the Third National Symposium on Management of Data Elements in Information Processing, pp. 47-57, 1977.
Hale, Mason E., Jr. A Revision of the Lichen Family Thelotremataceae in Panama. Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, no. 38. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. “Studies on the Thelotremataceae. 4.” Mycotaxon 7, no. 2 (1978): 377-85.
Hale, Mason E., Jr., and Vobis, G. “Santessonia, a New Lichen Genus from Southwest Africa.” Botaniska Notiser 131, no. 1 (1978): 1-5.
King, R. M., and Robinson, H. “Compositae in Flora of Guatemala: A Review.” Taxon 26, no. 4 (1977): 435-41.
“Guayania davidsei and Hebeclinium gentryi, New Species from
Northern South America (Eupatorieae—Asteraceae).” In Annals of the Mis-
souri Botanical Garden, vol. 64, no. 2, pp. 366-70, 1977.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLx1v. Various Notes and
Additions.” Phytologia 37, no. 5 (1977): 455-60.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). ctxv. A New Genus, Goy-
azianthus.” Phytologia 37, no. 5 (1977): 461-66.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLxv1. A New Genus Scherya
and Additions to Acritopappus.” Phytologia 38, no. 2 (1978): 99-105.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLxvu. Four New Species of
Bartlettina.” Phytologia 38, no. 2 (1978): 106-17.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). crxvi. Additions to the
Genus Ageratina.” Phytologia 38, no. 4 (1978): 323-55.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLx1x. Two New Species of
Fleischmannia from Guatemala.” Phytologia 38, no. 5 (1978): 417-23.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cixx. Additions to the
Genus Neocabreria.” Phytologia 38, no. 5 (1978): 424-28.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cixx1. A New Genus,
Corethamnium.” Phytologia 39, no. 1 (1978): 54-57.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cixxu. A New Genus,
Castenedia.” Phytologia 39, no. 1 (1978): 58-60.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLxx1. A New Species of
Lomatozoma.” Phytologia 39, no. 3 (1978): 129-31.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLxx1x. Notes on the Genus
Symphyopappus.” Phytologia 39, no. 3 (1978): 132-35.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLxxx. Three New Critonioid
Species from Tropical America.” Phytologia 39, no. 3 (1978): 136-42.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cLxxx1. Two New Species of
Trichogonia.” Phytologia 39, no. 5 (1978): 334-38.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cixxxu. A New Genus,
Bishovia.” Phytologia 39, no. 5 (1978): 339-42.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). cixxx1t. A New Genus, Bejaranoa.” Phytologia 40, no. 1 (1978): 51-53.
Lellinger, David B. “The Identity of Lonchitis Aurita and the Generic Names Anisosorus and Lonchitis.” Taxon 26, no. 5/6 (1977): 578-80.
. “Nomenclatural and Taxonomic Notes on the Pteridophytes of Costa
Rica, Panama, and Colombia, I.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, vol. 89, no. 61, pp. 703-32, 1977.
. “Nomenclatural Notes on Some Ferns of Costa Rica, Panama, and
Colombia.” American Fern Journal 67, no. 1 (1977): 58-60.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 331

<<<Page: 342>>>

Lellinger, David B., and de la Sota, E. R. “The Phytogeography of the Pteridophytes of the Departemento del Chocd, Colombia.” In National Geographic Society Research Reports, 1969 Projects, pp. 381-87. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1978.
Little, Elbert L., Jr. Atlas of the United States Trees. Minor Eastern Hardwoods. U.S. Department of Agriculture Miscellaneous Publications, 1342, vol. 4. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1977.
. Atlas of the United States Trees. Florida. U.S. Department of Agriculture Miscellaneous Publications, 1361, vol. 5. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1978.
Nicolson, Dan H. “Araceae: A Precursor to a New Flora of Fiji.” Allertonia 1 (March 1978): 345-48.
. “Notes for the Flora of Dominica: Spermacoce confusa and Schradera
exotica (Rubiaceae).” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum 58 (October 1977):
445-50.
. “Notes on ‘Some Remarks on the International Code of Botanical
Nomenclature,’ by V. P. Botschantzev.” Taxon 26 (August 1977): 415-16.
. “Typification of Names vs. Typification of Taxa: Proposals on Article 48 and Reconsideration of Mitracarpus hirtus vs. M. villosus (Rubiaceae).” Taxon 26 (November 1977): 569-74.
Norris, James N. “Seri Indian Seaweed Knowledge: Taxonomy, Ecology, and Uses.” In American Philosophical Society Year Book, edited by George W. Corner, pp. 202-6. Philadelphia: George H. Buchanan Company, 1977.
Powell, Dulcie A.; Nicolson, Dan H.; and Austin, Daniel F. “Convolvulus grandiflorus Jacquin (Convolvulaceae) Re-examined.” Brittonia 30 (May 1978): 199-202.
Robinson, H. “An Analysis of the Characters and Relationships of the Tribes Eupatorieae and Vernonieae (Asteraceae).” Systematic Botany 2, no. 3 (1977): 199-208.
. “Compositae—Liabeae.” In Flora of Ecuador, no. 8, pp. 1-60, 1978.
. “The Identity of Eupatorium fuertesii (Asteraceae) of Hispanola.”
Phytologia 38, no. 2 (1977): 149-50.
. “Studies in the Senecioneae (Asteraceae). vit. A New Species of
Psacalium from Mexico.” Phytologia 38, no. 4 (1978): 356-58.
. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). 1x. Restoration of the Genus
Alloispermum.” Phytologia 38, no. 5 (1978): 411-12.
. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). x. The Relationship of Calea
skutchii.” Phytologia 38, no. 5 (1978): 413-14.
. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). x1. A New Genus Kingi-
anthus.” Phytologia 38, no. 5 (1978): 415-16.
. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). x11. Re-establishment of the
genus Smallanthus.” Phytologia 39, no. 1 (1978): 47-53.
. “Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). x11. A New Species of Munnozia from Costa Rica.” Phytologia 39, no. 5 (1978): 331-33.
Robinson, H., and Cuatrecasas, J. “A Review of the Central American Species of Pentacalia (Asteraceae: Senecioneae).” Phytologia 40, no. 1 (1978): 37-50.
Robinson, H., Holm-Nielsen, L. B.; and Lojnant, Bert. ‘““Mosses of Ecuador II.” Lindbergia 4, no. 1-2 (1977): 105-16.
Robinson, H., and King, R. M. “Eupatorieae—Systematic Review.” In The Biology and Chemistry of the Compositae, by various authors, edited by V. H. Heywood, J. B. Harborne, and B. L. Turner, pp. 437-85. London: Academic Press, 1977.
Sandved, Kjell B. “Die federleichte Grossmacht.” GEO (July 1978): 6-24.
Sandved, Kjell B., and Emsley, Michael G. Insect Magic. New York: The Viking Press, 1978.
Shetler, Stanwyn G., and Skog, Laurence E., eds. “A Provisional Checklist of Species for Flora North America (Revised).” In Flora North America Re-
332 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 343>>>

port 84. Monographs in Systematic Botany from the Missouri Botanical Garden, vol. 1, 1978.
Smith, Lyman B., and Downs, R. J. “Tillandsioideae, Bromeliaceae.” In Flora Neotropica, monograph no. 14, pt. 2, pp. 663-1492, 1977.
Smith, Lyman B., and Read, R. W. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, xxx1x.” Phytologia 38, no. 2 (1977): 135-48.
Smith, Lyman B., and Wasshausen, D. C. “Os Géneros de Gramineas no Brasil.” Bradea 2, no. 32 (1977): 221-28.
. “Notas sobre Gramineas Brasileiras—1.” Bradea 2, no. 35 (1978): 243-
Soderstrom, Thomas R. “The Species of Chusquea (Poaceae: Bambusoideae) with Verticillate Buds.” Brittonia 30, no. 2 (1978): 154-64.
Stern, William L. “Can We Save the Native Plants of the Florida Keys?” Kampong Notes 11, no. 1 (1977): 1-4.
. “Index Xylariorum. 2.” Taxon 27 (1978): 233-69. White, George A., and Solt, Marie. “Chromosome Numbers in Crambe, Crambella, and Hemicrambe.” Crop Science 18 (January-February 1978): 160. Wurdack, John J. “Certamen Melastomataceis. xxv.” Phytologia 38, no. 4 (February 1978): 287-307.
. “Certamen Melastomataceis. xxv.” Phytologia 39, no. 5 (June 1978):
320-30.
. “Melastomataceae.” In. “New Taxa from the Avila and Naiguata
Mountains, Venezuela,” by J. A. Styermark and collaborators. Brittonia 30,
no. 1 (March 1978): 44—45.
. “Suplemento a las Melastomataceae de Venezuela.” Acta Botanica Venezuelica 13 (March 1978): 125-72.
Wurdack, John, and Wurdack, Marie. “Granitic Flat-Rocks: Natural Rock Gardens of Southeastern United States.” Bulletin of the American Rock Garden Society 36, no. 2 (May 1978): 53-56.
Department of Entomology
Clarke, J. F. Gates. “A New Species of Stathmopoda from Colombia (Lepidoptera: Stathmopodidae).” Entomological News 89, no. 1 (1978): 51-54.
Davis, Donald R. A Revision of the North American Moths of the Superfamily Eriocranioidea with the Proposal of a New Family, Acanthopteroctetidae (Lepidoptera). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 251. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Duckworth, W. Donald, and Eichlin, Thomas D. “A New Species of Clearwing Moth (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae) from Northern Mexico and Southeastern Arizona.” In Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol. 74, no. 3, 1976.
_ A Classification of the Sesiidae of America North of Mexico (Lepidop-
tera: Sesioidea). Occasional Papers in Entomology, no. 26. California De-
partment of Food and Agriculture, 1977.
. “Two New Species of Clearwing Moths (Sesiidae) from Eastern North
America Clarified by Sex Pheromones.” Journal of the Lepidopterists’
Society 31, no. 3 (1977).
. “A New Species of Clearwing Moth from Southcentral Texas (Lepi-
doptera: Sesiidae).” The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 53 (1977).
. The Type-Material of Central and South American Clearwing Moths
(Lepidoptera: Sesiidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 261.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. The Clearwing Moths of California. Occasional Papers in Entomology, no. 30. California Department of Food and Agriculture, 1978.
Erwin, Terry L. “Studies of the Subtribe Tachyina (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Bembidiini) Supplement C: Discovery of the Sister Group of Mioptachys Bates, in the Amazon Basin—Inpa psydroides a New Genus and Species.” Coleopterists Bulletin 32, no. 1 (1978): 29-36.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 333

<<<Page: 344>>>

. “The Larva of Neotropical Enceladus gigas Bonelli (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Siagoninae: Enceladini) with Notes on the Phylogeny and Classification of Promecognathini, Apotomini, Enceladini, Melaenini, Cymbionotini, and Siagonini.” Coleopterists Bulletin 32, no. 2 (1978): 99-106.
Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Larvae of the North American Caddisfly Genera, by Glenn B. Wiggins.” Bulletin of the Entomological Society of America 24 (1977): 127.
Froeschner, Richard C. “Cylindrocnema plana Mayr, 1865, A Senior Synonym of Nopalis crassicornis (Reed), 1898 (Hemiptera: Acanthosomatidae).” In Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol. 80, no. 1, pp. 130-31, 1978.
. “The Stink Bug Padaeus trivittatus Stal and Not Padaeus viduus (Vollenhoven) in the United States (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae).” In Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol. 80, no. 1, pp. 130-32, 1978.
Gordon, Robert D., and Cartwright, O. L. “Four New Species of Aegialia (s. str.) (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) from California and Nevada Sand Dunes.” Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 67, no. 1 (1977): 42-48.
Harbach, R. E., and Knight, K. L. “A Mosquito Taxonomic Glossary xu. The Larval Labiohypopharynx.” Mosquito Systematics 9, no. 3 (1977): 337-65.
. “A Mosquito Taxonomic Glossary x11. The Larval Pharynx.” Mosquito
Systematics 9, no. 3 (1977): 389-401.
. “A Mosquito Taxonomic Glossary x1v. The Larval Body (except
Chaetotaxy).” Mosquito Systematics 10, no. 1 (1978): 53-105.
. “A Mosquito Taxonomic Glossary xv. The Egg.” Mosquito Systematics 10, no. 2 (1978): 245-98.
Huang, Y.-M. “The Mosquitoes of Polynesia with a Pictorial Key to Some Species Associated with Filariasis and/or Dengue Fever.” Mosquito Systematics 9, no. 3 (1977): 289-322.
. “A New Record of Aedes (Stegomyia) patriciae Mattingly (Diptera:
Culicidae).” In Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington,
vol. 79, no. 4, p. 625, 1977.
. “The Identity of Two Species of Stegomyia Belonging to the Aedes albolineatus Group (Diptera: Culcicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 10, no. 2 (1978) : 197-210.
Hurd, Paul D., Jr. An Annotated Catalog of the Carpenter Bees of the Western Hemisphere. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Knight, K. L., and Harbach, R. E. “Maxillae of Fourth State Mosquito Larvae (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 9, no. 4 (1977): 455-77.
Mathis, W. N. “Key to the Neotropical Genera of Parydrinae with a Revision of the Genus Eleleides Cresson (Diptera: Ephydridae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 79, no. 1, pp. 64-74, 1977.
. “A New Synonym and Lectotype Designation in Ephydridae (Dip-
tera).” In Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol. 79,
no. 4, p. 537, 1977.
. “A Revision of the Genus Rhysophora Cresson with a Key to Related
Genera (Diptera: Ephydridae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 921-45, 1977.
. “A Revision of the Nearctic Species of Limnellia Malloch (Diptera:
Ephydridae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol.
91, no. 1, pp. 250-93, 1978.
. “New Synonymy in Ephydridae (Diptera).” Entomological News 89, no. 2/3 (1978): 105-6.
Mathis, W. N., and Wirth, Willis W. “New Synonymy in Ephydridae (Diptera).” InProceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol. 79, no. 4, p. 520, 1977.
Price, Roger D., and Emerson, K. C. “The Genus Meromenopon (Mallophaga: Menoponidae) from the Coraciiformes (Aves).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 50, no. 2 (1977): 215-21.
334 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 345>>>

Sirivanakarn, S. “A New Species of Culex (Eumelanomyia) from India with Descriptions of Pupae and Larvae of Cx. pluvialis Barraud (Diptera: Cullicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 9, no. 4 (1977): 537-47.
. “Redescription of Adults and Illustration of Male Genitalia (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 10, no. 4 (1977): 239-45.
Sirivanakarn, S., and White, G. B. “Neotype Designation of Culex quinquefasciatus Say (Diptera: Culicidae).” In Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol. 80, no. 3, pp. 360-72, 1978.
Spangler, P. J. “Three New Ecuadorian Species of the Aquatic Beetle Genus Chaetarthria (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 566-78, 1977.
Spangler, P. J., and Longley, G. “The Larva of a New Subterranean Water Beetle, Haideoporus texanus (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae: Hydroporinae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 53239, 1977.
Traub, R. “Tiflovia, a New Genus of Pygiopsyllid Fleas from New Guinea, with Notes on Convergent Evolution and Zoogeography (Siphonaptera).” Journal of Medical Entomology 13, no. 6 (1977): 653-85.
Traub, R.; Wisseman, C. L., Jr.; and Farhang-Azad, A. “The Ecology of Chigger-Borne Rickettsiosis and Murine Typhus—Changing Concepts and Epidemiology.” In Proceedings of the Fifteenth International Congress of Entomology, pp. 487-89, 1977.
. “The Ecology of Murine Typhus—A Critical Review.” Tropical Dis-
eases Bulletin 75, no. 4 (1978): 237-317.
Department of Invertebrate Zoology
Anderson, R. S.; Jordan, L. A.; and Harshbarger, J. C. “Tunic Abnormalities of the Urochordate Halocynthia pyriformis (Rathke).” Journal of Invertebrate Pathology 30 (1977): 160-68.
Barnard, J. L. “The Cavernicolous Fauna of Hawaiian Lava Tubes. 9. Amphipoda (Crustacea) from Brackish Lava Ponds on Hawaii and Maui.” Pacific Insects 17 (1977): 267-99.
. “A New Species of Synchelidium (Crustacea, Amphipoda) from Sand
Beaches in California.” In.Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington, vol. 90, pp. 877-933, 1977.
. “Redescription of the Amphipod, Calliopiella michaelseni Schellenberg from South Africa, with Comparison to a New Genus from the Pacific Ocean.” In Annals of the South African Museum, vol. 75, pp. 33-40, 1978.
Barnard, J. L., and Drummon, M. M. Amphipoda of Australia, part 3. The Phoxocephalidae. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 245. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Bayer, Frederick M., and Muzik, Katherine M. “An Atlantic Helioporan Coral (Coelenterata: Octocorallia).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 975-84, 1977.
Bowman, Thomas E. “Orchestia vaggala, a New Land-hopper from the Galapagos Islands (Crustacea: Amphipoda: Talitridae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 659-68, 1977.
. “Ceratolana papuae, a New Genus and Species of Mangrove-boring
Cirolanid Isopod from Papua New Guinea.” In Proceedings of the Biologi-
cal Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 819-25, 1977.
. “A Review of the Genus Antromysis (Crustacea: Mysidacea), includ-
ing New Species from Jamaica and Oaxaca, México, and a Redescription
and New Records for A. cenotensis.” In Studies on the Caves and Cave
Fauna of the Yucatan Peninsula., edited by J. R. Reddell. Association for
Mexican Cave Studies Bulletin, no. 6, 1977.
. “Restoration of the Subgenus Emphylia Koelbel for the Parasitic
isopod Nerocila sundaica Bleeker (Fabellifera: Cymothoidae).” Crustaceana
34, no. 1 (1978): 33-44.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 335

<<<Page: 346>>>

-“Nomenclatural Problems in the Cymothoid Isopod Genera Cerathothoa, Codonophilus, Glossobius and Meinertia—Their Solution by Applying the Law of Priority.” Crustaceana 34, no. 2 (1978): 217-19.
. Revision of the Pelagic Amphipod Genus Primno (Hyperiidea: Phrosinidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 275. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Bowman, T. E., and Beckett, David C. “A Redescription of the Troglobitic Isopod, Caecidotea stygia, from the Environs of Cincinnati, Ohio (Crustacea: Isopod: Asellidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, no. 1, pp. 294-302, 1978.
Bowman, T. E.; Grabe, Stephen A.; and Hecht, Jack H. “Range Extension and New Hosts for the Cymothoid Isopod Anilocra acuta.” Chesapeake Science 18, no. 4 (1977): 390-93.
Canet, Isabel C. “Range Extensions of the Shrimps Solenocera necopina Burkenroad and Parapenaeus americanus Rathbun (Crustacea, Decapoda, Penaeoidea).”” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, pp. 597-99, 1978.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr. “Waldo L. Schmitt, 25 June 1887-5 August 1977.” Crustaceana 31, pt. 1 (1978): 83-90.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr., and Holthuis, Lipke B. Psalidopus: The Scissor-Foot Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda: Caridea). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 277. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Child, Allan C. “Four New Species of Anoplodactylus (Pycnogonida) from the Western North Atlantic.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 584-96, 1978.
. “Gynandromorphs of the Pycnogonid Anoplodactylus portus.” In Sea Spiders (Pycnogonida). Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society of London, 63, no. 1/2: 133-44.
Clarke, A. H. “The Endangered Mollusks of Canada.” In Canada’s Threatened Species and Habitats, pp. 148-50. Canadian Nature Federation and the World Wildlife Fund, 1977.
. Polymorphism in Marine Mollusks and Biome Development. Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 274. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1978.
. “Comments on the Proposed Designation of a Type-species for Pleu-
rocera Rafinesque, 1818 Z.N.(S.) 183.” Bulletin Zoological Nomenclature
34, pt. 4 (February 1978): 199.
. “The Asian Apple Snail, Cipangopaludina chinensis (Viviparidae) in Oneida Lake, New York.” The Nautilus 92, no. 3: 134.
Clarke, A. H., and Harrington, C. R. “Asian Freshwater Mollusks from Pleistocene Deposits in the Old Crow Basin, Yukon Territory.” Canadian Journal of Earth Sciences 15, no. 1 (1978): 45-51.
Collette, Bruce B., and Ruetzler, Klaus. “Reef Fishes over Sponge Bottoms off the Mouth of the Amazon River.” In Proceedings, Third International Coral Reef Symposium, pp. 305-10. University of Miami, 1977.
Cressey, R. F. “Two New Species of Colobomatus (Copepoda: Cyclopoida) Parasitic on Pacific Fish.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 579-83, 1977.
. “Boylea longispica n. g. and Other Parasitic Copepods from Pacific
Fishes.” In Transactions of the American Microscopical Society, vol. 96, no.
4, pp. 467-76, 1977.
. “Marine Flora and Fauna of the Northeastern United States. Crustacea: Branchiura.” In National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Technical Report, circular 413, pp. 1-10. National Marine Fishery Service, 1978.
Downey, Maureen E. “On the Genera Echinaster Mueller and Troschel and Othilia Gray and the Validity of Verrillaster Downey (Echinodermata:
336 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 347>>>

Asteroidea).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol.
90, no. 4, pp. 829-30, 1977.
. “Rediscovery of the Giant Seastar Luidia superba A. H. Clark in the Galapagos Islands.” Bulletin of Marine Science 28, no. 2 (April 1978): 37576.
Harshbarger, J. C. “Spontaneous Neoplasms in Amphibians” and “Spontaneous Neoplasms in Reptiles.” In Pathology of Laboratory Animals, edited by K. Benirschke, F. M. Garner, T. C. Jones, and C. Kozma, vol. 2. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1978.
. “The Role of the Registry of Tumors in Lower Animals in the Study of Environmental Carcinogenesis in Aquatic Animals.” In Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, vol. 298, pp. 280-89, 1977.
Higgins, R. P. “Two New Species of Echinoderes (Kinorhyncha) from South Carolina.” In Transactions of the American Microscopical Society, vol. 96, no. 3, pp. 340-54, 1977.
. “Echinoderes gerardi n. sp. and Echinoderes riedli (Kinorhyncha) from
the Gulf of Tunis.” In Transactions of the American Microscopical Society,
vol. 97, no. 2, pp. 171-80, 1977.
. “Phylum Kinorhyncha.” In An Annotated Checklist of the Biota of the Coastal Zone of South Carolina, edited by R. G. Zingmark. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1977.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. “Cave-Inhabiting Crayfishes of Chiapas, Mexico (Decapoda: Cambaridae).” In Further Results of the Italian Zoological Missions to Mexico. Subterranean Fauna of Mexico, pt. 3, pp. 197-206. National Academy of Lincei, 1978.
Hope, W. D. “Gutless Nematodes of the Deep-Sea.” Mikrofauna Meeresboden 61 (1977): 307-8.
. “Deontostoma coptochilus n. sp., a Marine Nematode (Leptosomati-
dae) from the Foot Cavity of the Deep-Sea Anemone Actinauge longicornis
(Verrill, 1882).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 946-62, 1977.
. “Nematoda.” In An Annotated Checklist of the Biota of the Coastal Zone of South Carolina, edited by R. G. Zingmark, pp. 101-7. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1978.
Houbrick, R. S. “Redescription of Bittium proteum (Jousseaume, 1930) with Comments on Its Generic Placement.” The Nautilus 92, no. 1 (1978): 9-11.
Jones, M. L. “Three New Species of Magelona (Annelida, Polychaeta) and a Redescription of Magelona pitelkai Hartman.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, pp. 336-63, 1978.
Kaesler, R. L.; Mulvany, P. S.; and Kornicker, L. S. “Delimitation of the Antarctic Convergence by Cluster Analysis and Ordination of Benthic Myodocopid Ostracoda.” In Sixth International Ostracod Symposium, Saalfelden, pp. 235-44, 1977.
Kornicker, L. S. “Sarsiella Maurae, a New Species of Marine Ostracoda (Sarsiellidae: Myodocopina) from Bahia de Los Angeles, Gulf of California, Mexico.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 676-84, 1977.
. “Diversity of Benthic Myodocopid Ostracodes.” In Sixth International
Ostracod Symposium, Saalfelden, pp. 159-73, 1977.
. Harbansus, a New Genus of Marine Ostracoda, and a Revision of the Philomedidae (Myodocopina). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 260. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Kornicker, Louis S., and Caraion, Francisca Elena. West African Myodocopid Ostracoda (Sarsidellidae, Rutidermatidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 250. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Kornicker, L. S., and Maddocks, R. F. “Cycloleberis Christiei, a New Species of Marine Ostracoda (Suborder Myodocopina) from Saldanha Bay and
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 337

<<<Page: 348>>>

Langebaan Lagoon, South Africa.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 894-914, 1977.
Lewis, Julian J., and Bowman, Thomas E. “Caecidotea carolinensis, n. sp., the First Subterranean Water Slater from North Carolina (Crustacea: Isopoda: Asellidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 968-74, 1977.
McKinney, Larry D., and Barnard, J. L. “A New Marine Genus and Species of the Nuuanu-Group (Crustacea: Amphipoda) from the Yucatan Peninsula.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, pp. 161-71, 1977.
Manning, Raymond B. “A Monograph on the West African Stomatopod Crustacea.” Atlantide Report 12 (November 1977): 25-181.
. Notes on Some Species of the Falcatus Group of Gonodactylus (Crus-
tacea: Stomatopoda: Gonodactylidae). Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, no. 258. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Synopses of the Indo—West-Pacific Species of Lysiosquilla Dana, 1852
(Crustacea: Stomatopoda: Lysiosquillidae). Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, no. 259. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. New and Rare Stomatopod Crustacea from the Indo—West-Pacific
Region. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 264. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Further Observations on Oratosquilla, with Accounts on Two New
Genera and Nine New Species (Crustacea: Stomatopoda: Squillidae). Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 272. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1978.
. “A New Genus of Stomatopod Crustacean from the Indo—West-Pacific Region.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, no. 1, pp. 1-4, 1978.
Pawson, D. L. “Molpadiid Sea Cucumbers (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea) of the Southern Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans.” In Antarctic Research Series, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 97-123, 1977.
. “Marine Flora and Fauna of the Northeastern United States. Echino-
dermata: Holothuroidea.” In National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Technical Report, circular 405, pp. 1-15. National Marine Fishery
Service, 1977.
. “Occurrence of the Subgenus Holothuria (Holothuria) in the Gulf of
Mexico (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea).” In Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 915-20, 1977.
. “Some Aspects of the Biology of Deep-Sea Echinoderms.” Thalassia
Jugoslavica for 1976, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 287-93, 1978.
. The Echinoderm Fauna of Ascension Island, South Atlantic Ocean. Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, no. 2. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Pettibone, Marian H. “The Synonymy and Distribution of the Estuarine Hypaniola florida (Hartman) from the East Coast of the United States (Polychaeta: Ampharetidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 2, pp. 205-8, 1977.
Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr., and Manning, Raymond B. “The Later Larval Stages of Gonodactylus oerstedii Hansen Reared in the Laboratory. Studies on Development of Stomatopod Crustacea, II.” Bulletin of Marine Sciences 28, no. 2 (May 1978): 297-315.
Rehder, H. A. “Comments on the Proposed Designation of a Type-species for Pleurocera Rafinesque, 1818. Z.H.(S.) 83.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 34, pt. 4 (February 1978): 198.
Roper, Clyde F. E. “The Biogeography and Numerical Taxonomy of the Oegopsid Squid Family Ommastrephidae in the Pacific Ocean, by J. H. Wormuth.” Malacological Review 10 (1977): 95-97.
338 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 349>>>

Roper, Clyde F. E., and Sweeney, M. J. A Catalogue of the Type-specimens of Recent Cephalopod in the National Museum of Natural History. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 278. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Roper, Clyde F. E., and Young, R. E. “Intensity Regulation of Bioluminescence during Countershading in Living Midwater Animals.” Fishery Bulletin 75, no. 2 (1977): 239-52.
Rosewater, J. “Zoogeography of West African Littorinidae.” Bulletin of the American Malacological Union, Inc., for 1977 (April 1978): 31-34.
. “A Case of Double Primary Homonymy in Eastern Pacific Littorinidae.” The Nautilus 92, no. 3 (July 1978): 123-25.
Ruetzler, Klaus. “Photogrammetry of Reef Environments by Helium Balloon.” In Coral Reefs: Research Methods, edited by D. R. Stoddart and R. E. Johannes. Monographs on Oceanographic Methodology, no. 5, pp. 45-52. Paris: United Nations, Economic and Social Council, 1978.
. “Sponges in Coral Reef.” In Coral Reefs: Research Methods, edited by D. R. Stoddart and R. E. Johannes. Monographs on Oceanographic Methodology, no. 5, pp. 299-313. Paris: United Nations, Economic and Social Council, 1978.
Williams, A. B.; Shaw, J. K.; and Hopkins, T. S. “Stilbomastax, a New Genus of Spider Crab (Majidae: Tychinae) from the West Indies Region, with Notes on American Relatives.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, pp. 884-93, 1977.
Williams, A. B., and Wigley, R. L. “Distribution of Decapod Crustacea off Northeastern U.S.A. Based on Specimens at the Northeast Fisheries Center, Woods Hole, Massachusetts.” In National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Technical Reports. National Marine Fishery Service, 1977.
Department of Mineral Sciences
Aumento, F.; Melson, W. G.; et al. Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, vol. 37. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1977.
Chalmers, R. O., and Mason, Brian. “Two Chondrites from New South Wales.” In Records of the Australian Museum, vol. 30, no. 18, pp. 519-31, 1977.
Clarke, Roy S., Jr. “William Thomson (1761-1806): A Neglected Meteoriticist.” Meteoritics 12 (1977): 194-95.
Dunn, Pete J. “Andradite from the Junnila Mine, California.” The Mineralogical Record 8 (1977): 519.
. “Chromium in Dravite.” Mineralogical Magazine 41 (1977): 408-10.
. “From Unknown to Known: The Characterization of New Mineral
Species.” The Mineralogical Record 8 (1977): 341-49.
. “Gemmological Notes.” Journal of Gemmology 16 (1978): 90-93.
. “Hutchinsonite from Quiruvilca, Peru.” The Mineralogical Record 8
(1977): 394.
. “Scheelite from Korea.” The Mineralogical Record 8 (1977): 394.
. “Manual of Mineralogy (after James D. Dana), by Cornelius
S. Hurlbut, Jr., and Cornelis Klein.” The Mineralogical Record 9 (1978): 123.
. “On the Composition of Some Canadian Green Garnets.” Canadian
Mineralogist 16 (1978): 205-6.
. “Polydymite, Vaesite, and Siegenite from Missouri.” The Mineralogi-
cal Record 9 (1978): 111-12.
. “Tungstenian Tetrawickmanite from Langban, Sweden.” The Miner-
alogical Record 9 (1978): 41.
. “Guest Editorial: Tunnel Vision in Mineral Collecting.” The Mineralogical Record 9 (1978): 2.
Dunn, Pete J., and Appleman, Daniel E. “Perhamite, a New Calcium Aluminum Silico-Phosphate Mineral, and a Re-examination of Viseite.” Mineralogical Magazine 41 (1977): 437-42.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 339

<<<Page: 350>>>

Dunn, Pete J.; Appleman, Daniel E.; and Nelen, Joseph E. “Liddicoatite, a New Calcium End-Member of the Tourmaline Group.” American Mineralogist 62 (1977): 1121-24.
Dunn, Pete J., and Gaines, Richard V. “Uralolite from the Dunton Gem Mine, Newry, Maine: A Second Occurrence.” The Mineralogical Record 9 (1978): 99-100.
Dunn, Pete J.; Gaines, Richard V.; Wolfe, C. Wroe; and Barbosa, Carlos de Prado. “Epitaxial Wodginite and Cassiterite from Lavea Jabuti, Baixio, Galilea, Minas Gerais, Brazil.” The Mineralogical Record 9 (1978): 14-18.
Dunn, Peter J.; Nellen, Joseph E.; and Norberg, Julie. “On the Composition of Gem Scapolites.” Journal of Gemmology 15 (1978): 4-10.
Dunn, Peter J., and Norberg, Julie. “Phosphophyllite, Variation in Composition.” American Mineralogist (1977): 818.
Dunn, Peter J.; Rouse, Roland C.; and Norberg, Julie A. “Hydroxyapophyllite, a New Mineral, and a Redefinition of the Apophyllite Group. I. Description, Occurrences, and Nomenclature.” American Mineralogist 63 (1978): 196-202.
Dunn, Peter J., and Wilson, Wendell E. “Nomenclature Revisions in the Apophyllite Group: Hydroxyapophyllite, Apophyllite, Fluorapophyllite.” The Mineralogical Record 9 (1978): 95-98.
Fiske, Richard S., and Tobisch, Othmar T. “Paleogeographic Significance of Volcanic Rocks of the Ritter Range Pendant, Central Sierra Nevada, California.” In Mesozoic Paleogeography of the Western United States. Pacific Coast Paleogeography Symposium 2, pp. 209-21, 1978.
Florensky, P. V.; Short, N.; Winzer, S. R.; and Fredriksson, K. “The Zhamanshin Structure: Geology and Petrography.” Meteoritics 12, no. 3 (1977): 227-28.
Fredriksson, K.; de Gasparis, A.; and Ehmann, W. ‘The Zhamanshin Structure: Chemical and Physical Properties of Selected Samples.” Meteoritics 12, no. 3 (1977): 229-31.
French, Bevan M.; Jezek, Peter A.; and Appleman, Daniel E. “Virgilite: A New Lithium Aluminum Silicate Mineral from the Macusani Glass, Peru.” American Mineralogist 63 (1978): 461-65.
Fudali, R. F. “Geophysical and Geologic Investigations of Some ‘Accidents Circulaires’ in Mauritania.” In National Geographic Society Research Reports, pp. 195-201. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1978.
Jarosewich, E., and Mason, Brian. “Composition of Lunar Basalts 10069, 10071, and 12008.” In Lunar Sample Studies, pp. 35-40. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, SP-418, 1977.
Johnson, J. E.; Scrymgour, June M.; Jarosewich, Eugene; and Mason, Brian. “Brachina Meteorite—A Chassignite from South Australia.” In Records of the South Australian Museum, vol. 17, no. 19, pp. 309-19, 1977.
Konnert, John H., and Appleman, Daniel E. “The Crystal Structure of Low Tridymite.” Acta Crystallographica 34 (1978): 391-403.
Levi-Donati, G. R.; Nelen, J.; and Fredriksson, K. “The Vigarano Chondrite— A Reevaluation.” Meteoritics 12, no. 3 (1977).
McGregor, V. R., and Mason, Brian. “Petrogenesis and Geochemistry of Metabasaltic and Metasedimentary Enclaves in the Amitsoq Gneisses, West Greenland.” American Mineralogist 62 (1977): 887-904.
Mason, Brian. “Geochemistry of the Greenland Group: Comment.” New Zealand Journal of Geology and Geophysics 20, no. 4 (1977): 811-12.
. “Elemental Distribution in Minerals from the Wolgidee Hills Intrusion, Western Australia.” In Geochemistry 1977, pstr (New Zealand), bulletin 218, pp. 114-20.
Mason, Brian; Jarosewich, E.; Jacobson, Sara; and Thompson, G. “Composition of Eight Apollo 17 Basalts.” In Lunar Sample Studies, pp. 4-47. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, SP-418, 1977.
340 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 351>>>

Melson, W. G., “Eruption of Arenal Volcano, Costa Rica.” In National Geographic Research Reports, 1969 Projects, pp. 433-46. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1978.
Moreland, Grover, and Johnson, Richard. “A Technique for Preparing a Polished Thin Section from a Diamond-Containing Meteorite.” Meteoritics 12, no. 4 (1977).
Noonan, A. F.; Nelen, J.; and Fredriksson, K. “Zr-Y Oxides and High-Alkali Glass in an Ameboid Inclusion from Ornans.” Meteoritics 12, no. 3 (1977).
Olsen, E.; Moreland, G.; Jarosewich, E.; and Fredriksson, K. “Ten Stony Meteorites from the Antarctic: Classification and Description.” Meteoritics 12, no. 3 (1977): 335.
Olsen, Edward; Bunch, T. E.; Jarosewich, Eugene; Noonan, Albert F.; and Huss, Glenn I. “Happy Canyon: A New Type of Enstatite Achondrite.” Meteoritics 12, no. 2 (1977): 109-23.
Olsen, Edward; Noonan, A.; Fredriksson, K.; Jarosewich, E.; and Moreland, G. “Eleven New Meteorites from Antarctica, 1976-1977.” Meteoritics 13 (1978): 209-25.
Rabinowitz, P. A.; Melson, W. G.; et al. “Along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge: Challenger Drills on Leg 45.” Geotimes 21, no. 4 (1976): 20-23.
Rambaldi, E. R., and Fredriksson, K. “Trace Elements in Chondrites: Whence and Where.” Meteoritics 12, no. 3 (1977): 344.
Rouse, Roland C.; Peacor, Donald R.; and Dunn, Pete J. “Hydroxyapophyllite, a New Mineral, and a Redefinition of the Apophyllite Group. II. Crystal Structure.” American Mineralogist 63 (1978): 196-202.
Taylor, S. R., and Mason, B. H. “Chemical Characteristics of Cal-Al Inclusions in the Allende Meteorite.” In Lunar and Planetary Science IX, pp. 1158-60. Houston: Lunar Science Institute, 1978.
Wilson, Wendell E., and Dunn, Pete J. “Famous Mineral Localities: The Kalahari Manganese Field.” The Mineralogist Record 9 (1978): 137-53.
Youngblood, E.; Fredriksson, B. J.; Kraut, F.; and Fredriksson, K. “Celtic Vitrified Forts: Implications of a Chemical-Petrological Study of Glass and Source Rocks.” Journal of Archaeological Science (1978).
Department of Paleobiology
Benson, R. H. “The Cenozoic Ostracode Faunas of the Sao Paulo Plateau and the Rio Grande Rise (DSDP Leg 39, Sites 356 and 357).” In Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, vol. 39, pp. 869-83. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1977.
. “On the Use of Ostracodes for Tracing Changes in Oceanic Circula-
tion.” In Aspects of Ecology and Zoogeography of Recent and Fossil Ostra-
coda. Proceedings of the Sixth International Symposium on Ostracods,
Saalfelden (Salzburg), July 30—August 8, 1976, edited by Heinz Loffler and
Dan Danielopol, pp. 15-21. The Hague: Dr. W. Junk v.b. Publishers, 1977.
. “The Paleoecology of the Ostracodes of DSDP Leg 42A.” In Initial
Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, vol. 42, pt. 1, pp. 777-87. Wash-
ington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.
. “Preliminary Examination of the Ostracodes of DSDP Leg 42B.” In Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, vol. 42, pt. 2, pp. 1039-40. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.
Buzas, M. A. “Vertical Distribution of Foraminifera in the Indian River, Florida.” Journal of Foraminiferal Research 7, no. 3 (1977): 234-37.
Cooper, G. Arthur, and Grant, Richard E. Permian Brachiopods of West Texas, VI. Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, no. 32. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
Correll, D. L.; Faust, M. A.; and Pierce, J. W. Non-Point Source Studies on Chesapeake Bay: VIII. Preliminary Tests of the Application of Rhode River Statistical Models to Patuxent River Watersheds. Chesapeake Research Consortium, no. 61. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University, 1977.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 341

<<<Page: 352>>>

Correll, D. L.; Pierce, J. W.; and Wu, T. L. “Herbicides and Submerged Plants in Chesapeake Bay.” In Coastal Zone ’78. Symposium on Technical, Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Regulatory Aspects of Coastal Zone Management, edited by O. T. Magoon, et al., vol. 2, pp. 858-77. New York: American Society of Civil Engineers, 1978.
Glenister, B. F.; Bolton, T. E.; Broadhead, T. W.; Eldredge, N.; Silberling, N.J.; Sweet, W. C.; and Waller, T. R. Fossil Invertebrates—Collections in North American Repositories 1976. A Report of the Paleontological Society Ad Hoc Committee on North American Resources in Invertebrate Paleontology (CONARIP). Columbus: The Paleontological Society, 1977.
Groupe MEDIBA . “Données sur la Structure et le Recouvrement Sédimentaire.” In VI éme Colloque sur la Géologie des Régions Egéennes. Athens: Mediterranean Balearic Group, 1977.
Hickey, L. J. “Orgin of the Major Features of Angiospermous Leaf Architecture in the Fossil Record.” Courier, Forschungsinstitut Senckenberg 30 (1978); 27-34.
Hickey, L. J., and Peterson, R. K. “Zingiberopsis, a Fossil Genus of the Ginger Family from Late Cretaceous to Early Eocene Sediments of Western Interior North America.” Canadian Journal of Botany 56, no. 9 (1978): 1136-52.
Kelling, Gilbert, and Stanley, D. J. “Sedimentation in Submarine Canyons, Fans, and Trenches: Appraisal and Augury.” In Sedimentation in Submarine Canyons, Fans, and Trenches, edited by D. J. Stanley and Gilbert Kelling, pp. 377-88. Stroudsburg, Pa.: Dowden, Hutchinson, and Ross, Inc., 1978.
Kier, Porter M., and Lawson, Mary Hurd. Index of Living and Fossil Echinoids, 1924-1970. Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, no. 34. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Macintyre, I. G. “Reply: Distribution of Submarine Cements in a Modern Caribbean Fringing Reef, Galeta Point, Panama.” Journal of Sedimentary Petrology 48, no. 2 (1978): 669-70.
. “A Hand-Operated Submersible Drill for Coring Reef Substrata.” In Coral Reefs: Research Methods, edited by D. R. Stoddard and R. E. Johannes. Oceanographic Methodology, no. 5, pp. 75-80. Paris: United Nations, Economic and Social Council, 1978.
Macintyre, I. G.; Burke, R. B.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Thickest Recorded Holocene Reef Section, Isla Perez Core Hole, Alacran Reef, Mexico.” Geology 5, no. 12 (1977): 749-54.
Macintyre, I. G.; Pilkey, O. H.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Relict Oysters on the United States Atlantic Continental Shelf: A Reconsideration of Their Usefulness in Understanding Late Quaternary Sea-Level History.” Geological Society of America Bulletin 89, no. 2 (1978): 277-82.
Maldonado, Andrés, and Stanley, D. J. “Nile Cone Depositional Processes and Patterns in the Late Quaternary.” In Sedimentation in Submarine Canyons, Fans, and Trenches, edited by D. J. Stanley and Gilbert Kelling, pp. 239-57. Stroudsburg, Pa.: Dowden, Hutchinson, and Ross, Inc., 1978.
Stanley, D. J. “Ionian Sea Sapropel Distribution and Late Quaternary Palaeoceanography in the Eastern Mediterranean.” Nature 274, no. 5667 (1978): 149-52.
. “Sedimentary Petrology Part III. The Origin of Sediments and Sedimentary Rocks, by W. von Engelhardt.” The American Mineralogist 63, no. 3/4 (1978): 428-29.
Stanley, D. J., and Freeland, G. L. “The Erosion-Deposition Boundary in the Head of Hudson Submarine Canyon Defined on the Basis of Submarine Observations.” Marine Geology 26, no. 3/4 (1978): M37—M46.
Stanley, D. J., and Kelling, Gilbert, eds. Sedimentation in Submarine Canyons, Fans, and Trenches. Stroudsburg, Pa.: Dowden, Hutchinson, and Ross, Inc., 1978.
342 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 353>>>

Stanley, D. J.; Knight, J. R.; Stuckenrath, R.; and Catani, G. “High Sedimentation Rates and Variable Dispersal Patterns in the Western Hellenic Trench.” Nature 273, no. 5658 (1978): 110-13.
Stanley, D. J.; Palmer, H. D.; and Dill, R. F. “Coarse Sediment Transport by Mass Flow and Turbidity Current Processes and Downslope Transformations in Annot Sandstone Canyon-Fan Valley Systems.” In Sedimentation in Submarine Canyons, Fans, and Trenches, edited by D. J. Stanley and Gilbert Kelling, pp. 85-115. Stroudsburg, Pa.: Dowden, Hutchinson, and Ross, Inc., 1978.
Stanley, D. J., and Wear, C. M. “The ‘Mud-Line’: An Erosion-Deposition Boundary on the Upper Continental Slope.” Marine Geology 28, no. 1/2 (1978) : M19-M29.
Waller, T. R. “Scallops.” In “Offshore Dredging, South Santo,” by J. N. Carney. In New Hebrides Condominium Annual Report of the Geological Survey for the Year 1975, p. 15. British Service, 1977.
Department of Vertebrate Zoology
Alvarez, Rafael, and Olson, Storrs L. “A New Merganser from the Miocene of Virginia.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, no. 2, 1978.
Arnason, U.; Benirschke, K.; Mead, J. G.; Nichols, W. W. “Banded Karyotypes of Three Whales: Mesoplodon europaeus, M. carlhubbsi, and Balaenoptera acutorostrata.” Heridatas 87 (1977): 189-200.
Ash, John S. “Turtle Dove Migration in Southern Europe, the Middle East and North Africa.” British Birds 70, no. 11 (1977): 504-6.
. Bird Ringing in Ethiopia, Report No. 7, 1969-1977. Addis Ababa:
Naval Medical Research Unit No. 5.
. “Sarothrura Crakes in Ethiopia.” Bulletin of the British Ornitholo-
gists’ Club 98, no. 1 (1978): 26-29.
. “Inland and Coastal Occurrences of Broad-Billed Sandpipers Limicola
falcinellus in Ethiopia and Djibouti.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’
Club 98, no. 1 (1978): 24-26.
. “Ethiopia as a Presumed Wintering Area for the Eastern Grasshopper
Warbler Locustella naevia straminea.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’
Club 98, no. 1 (1978): 22-23.
. “A Basra Reed Warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus griseldis in Mo-
zambique.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 98, no. 1 (1978):
29-30.
. “The Undescribed Female of Harwood’s Francolin Francolinus harwoodi and Other Observations on the Species.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 98, no. 2 (1978): 50-55.
Ash, John S., and Ashford, O. M. “Great Black-Headed Gulls Larus ichythaetus and Red-Necked Phalaropes phalaropus lobatus Inland in Ethiopia.” Journal of the East Africa Natural History Society and National Museum 31, no. 162 (1977): 1-3.
Ash, John S., and Howell, Thomas R. “The Bald Ibis or Waldrapp Geronticus eremita in Ethiopia.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 97, no. 3 (1977): 104.
Froelich, J. W.; Socha, W. W.; Wiener, A. S.; Moor-Janowski, J.; and Thorington, R. W. “Blood Groups of the Mantled Howler Monkey (Alouatta palliata).” Journal of Medical Primatology 6 (1977): 219-31.
Goin, C.; Goin, O.; and Zug, G. R. Introduction to Herpetology. San Francisco: W. H. Freeman, 1978.
Handley, C. O., Jr. “Regarding the Draft Environmental Impact Statement on Bowhead Whales.” In Final Environmental Impact Statement. International Whaling Commission’s Deletion of Native Exemption for the Subsistence Harvest of Bowhead Whales, vol. 1. U.S. Department of Commerce, Na-
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 343

<<<Page: 354>>>

tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Marine Fisheries Service.
Heyer, W. Ronald. “Taxonomic Notes on Frogs from the Madeira and Purus Rivers, Brasil.” Papéis Avulsos de Zoologia 31, no. 8 (1977): 141-62.
“Variation in Members of the Centrolenella eurygnatha Complex
(Amphibia: Centrolenidae) from Serra do Mar and Serra da Mantiqueira,
Brazil.” Papéis Avulsos de Zoologia 32, no. 2 (1978): 15-33.
. “A Biogeographical Analysis of the Chihuahuan Desert through Its Herpetofauna.” Herpetological Review 9, no. 2 (1978): 50-51. Lachner, Ernest A., and McKinney, James F. A Revision of the Indo-Pacific Fish Genus Gobiopsis with Descriptions of Four New Species (Pisces: Gobiidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 262. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Leatherwood, S.; Deerman, M. W.; Potter, C. W. “Food and Reproductive Status of Nine Tursiops truncatus from the Northeastern United States Coast.” Cetology 28 (1978).
McKinney, James F., and Lachner, Ernest A. “Two New Species of Callogobius from Indo-Pacific Waters (Teleostei: Gobiidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, no. 1, pp. 203-15, 1978.
Mead, J. G. “Records of Sei and Bryde’s Whales from the Atlantic Coast of the United States, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean.” In Reports of the International Whaling Commission, special issue 1, pp. 113-16, 1977.
Olson, Storrs L. “A Paleontological Perspective of West Indian Birds and Mammals.” In Zoogeography in the Caribbean, edited by Frank B. Gill. The 1975 Leidy Medal Symposium. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia Special Publication, no. 13, pp. 99-117, 1977.
. A Lower Eocene Frigatebird from the Green River Formation of Wy-
oming (Pelecaniformes: Frebatbidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobi-
ology, no. 35. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
. “A Great Auk, Pinguinis, from the Pliocene of North Carolina.” In
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 690—
97, 1977.
. “The Nomenclatural Status of the Taxa of Fossil Birds Attributed to Auguste Aymard.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, no. 2, 1978.
Olson, Storrs L., and Angle, J. Phillip. “Weights of Some Puerto Rican Birds.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 97, no. 4 (December 1977): 105-7.
Olson, Storrs L., and Gillette, David D. “Catalogue of Type Specimens of Fossil Vertebrates, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. Part III: Birds.” In Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, vol. 129, no. 7, pp. 99-100, 1978.
Orejas-Moranda, B.; Zug, G. R.; Garcia, D.; and Achaval, F. “Scale Organs on the Head of Leptotyphlops (Reptiles, Serpentes): A Variational Study.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 2, pp. 209-13, 1977.
Reeves, R. R.; Mead, J. G.; and Katona, S. “The Right Whale in the Western North Atlantic.” In International Whaling Commission Twenty-eighth Report, pp. 303-12, 1978.
Ripley, S. D. “Ecologists Have Begun to Realize that It May Be Too Much to Ask ‘Have-Not’ Nations to Save Wildlife as Man’s Common Heritage.” Environmental Awareness 1, no. 1 (1977): 7-8.
. “Ecologist Returns to South Asia for Another Look.” Tata Review
12, no. 2 (1977): 13-19.
. “A Dialogue on ‘Rails: The Oddest Bird Family’ with Dillon Ripley
and Fenwick Lansdowne.” Discovery 12, no. 3 (1977): 43-49.
344 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 355>>>

. “A New Subspecies of Island Thrush, Turdus poliocephalus, from
New Ireland.” Auk 94, no. 4 (October 1977): 772-73.
. “A Revision of the Subspecies of Strix leptogrammica Temminck, 1831
(Aves: Strigiformes, Strigidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, vol. 90, no. 4, pp. 993-1001, 1977.
. “The Smithsonian: An Interdisciplinary Institution 150 Years after
Its Conception by James Smithson.” Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 3,
no. 2 (June 1978): 89-98.
. A Naturalist’s Adventure in Nepal. Bibliotheca Himalayica, ser. 1, vol. 27. Katmandu: Ratna Pustak Bhandar, 1978.
Springer, Victor G. Synonymization of the Family Oxudercidae, with Comments on the Identity of Apocryptes cantoris Day (Pisces: Gobiidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 270. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Springer, Victor G., and Spreitzer, August E. Five New Species and a New Genus of Indian Ocean Blenniid Fishes, Tribe Salariini, with a Key to Genera of the Tribe. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 268. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Taylor, W. R. “Observations on Specimen Fixation.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, pp. 753-63, 1977.
Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Some Problems Relevant to the Conservation of Callitrichidae.” Primates in Medicine, vol. 10. Basel: Karger, 1978.
. “Conservation and Primatology: A Glum View of the Future.” In Re-
cent Advances in Primatology, edited by D. J. Chivers and W. Lane-Petter,
pp. 3-5. London: Academic Press, 1978.
. “Summary Remarks on Primate Conservation.” In Recent Advances in Primatology, edited by D. J. Chivers and W. Lane-Petter, pp. 97-100. London: Academic Press, 1978.
Watson, George E. “Pyramids of Life.” Smithsonian 8, no. 8 (1977): 157-59.
. “Proceedings of the Ninety-fifth Stated Meeting of the American
Ornithologists’ Union.” Auk 95, no. 1, supplement (1978): 1AA-19AA.
. Foreword to Key to North American Waterfowl, rev. ed., by S. R. Wylie and S. S. Furlong, p. 3. Chestertown, Md.: Schroeder Prints, 1978.
Weitzman, Stanley H. The Phylogeny of the Neon Tetras, an Example of Systematic and Zoogeographic Problems in Characoid Fishes from the Central Amazon and Southern Orinoco Basins. Sao Paulo, Brazil: Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de S4o Paulo, 1977.
. Three New Species of Fishes of the Genus Nannostomus from the Brazilian States of Para and Amazonas (Teleostei: Lebiasinidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 263. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Weitzman, Stanley H., and Kanazawa, Robert H. “The South American Fish Genus Elachocharax Myers with a Description of a New Species (Teleostei: Characidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, no. 1, pp. 158-83, 1978.
Zug, G. R. “Distribution and Variation of Leptotyphlops tricolor.” Copeia 1977, no. 4 (1977): 744-45.
Zusi, R. L. “The Interorbital Septum in Cardueline Finches.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 98, no. 1 (1978): 5-10.
. “Remarks on the Generic Allocation of Pseudochelidon sirintarae.”
Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 98, no. 1 (1978): 13-15.
Handbook of North American Indians
Heizer, Robert F. California. Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 8, William C. Sturtevant, genrl. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 345

<<<Page: 356>>>

Baskin, G. B.; Montali, R. J.; Bush, M.; Quan, T. J.; and Smith, E. E. “Yersiniosis in Captive Exotic Mammals.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 171, no. 9 (1977): 908-12.
Block, J. A.; Hamer, A.; and Hess, A. “A Method of Zoo Inventory Reporting.” In International Zoo Yearbook, vol. 17, pp. 205-7, 1977.
Brownstein, D. G.; Strandberg, J. D.; Montali, R. J.; Bush, M.; and Fortner, J. “Cryptosporidium Associated Hypertrophic Gastritis in Snakes.” In Veterninary Pathology, vol. 14, pp. 606-17, 1977.
Bush, M. “External Fixation of Avian Fractures.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 171, no. 9 (1977): 943-46.
. “Giraffe Restraint and Immobilization.” In Proceedings of the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, pp. 151-55, 1977.
Bush, M.; Custer, R.; Smeller, J. M.; and Bush, L. M. “Physiologic Measures of Nonhuman Primates during Physical Restraint and Chemical Immobilization.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 171, no. 9 (1977): 866-69.
Bush, M., and Roberts, M. “Distemper in Captive Red Pandas (Ailurus fulgens).” In International Zoo Yearbook, vol. 17, pp. 194-96, 1977.
Bush, M.; Smeller, J. M.; Charache, P.; and Solomon, H. M. “Preliminary Study of Antibiotics in Snakes.” In Proceedings of the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, pp. 50-54, 1977.
Collins, L. R. “Diets (Natural and Synthetic) for Marsupialia.” In Handbook of Nutrition, pp. 439-67. Cleveland: C. R. C. Press, 1977.
. “Diets (Natural and Synthetic) for Monotremata.” In Handbook of Nutrition, pp. 435-38. Cleveland: C. R. C. Press, 1977.
Custer, R.; Kramer, L.; Kennedy, S.; and Bush, M. “Hematologic Effects of Xylazine When Used for Restraint of Bactrian Camels.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 171, no. 9 (1977): 889-901.
Dittus, W. P. J. “The Ecology of a Semi-Evergreen Forest Community in Sri Lanka.” Biotropica 9, no. 4 (1977): 268-86.
. “The Social Regulation of Population Density and Age-Sex Distribu-
tion in the Toque Monkey.” Behaviour 63 (1977): 281-322.
. “The Socioecological Basis for the Conservation of the Toque Monkey (Macaca sinica) of Sri Lanka (Ceylon).” In Primate Conservation, edited by G. Bourne, pp. 237-65. New York: Academic Press, 1977.
Egoscue, H. J. “Desert Fox Comes to Zoo.” ZooGoer 6, no. 4 (1977): 9-11.
. “The Sagebrush Vole Flea, Megabothris clantoni princei, in Western Utah with Comments on the Distribution of Megabothris in the Bonneville Basin.” Great Basin Naturalist 37 (1977): 75-76.
Eisenberg, J. F. “The Evolution of the Reproductive Unit in the Class Mammalia.” In Reproductive Behavior and Evolution, edited by J. S. Rosenblatt and B. Komisaruk, pp. 39-71. New York: Plenum, 1977.
Eisenberg, J. F., and Golani, I. “Communication in Metatheria.” In How Animals Communicate, edited by T. Sebeok, pp. 575-99. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1977.
Eisenberg, J. F., and Kleiman, D. G. “Communication in Lagomorphs and Rodents.” In How Animals Communicate, edited by T. Sebeok, pp. 634-54. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1977.
. “The Usefulness of Behavior Studies in Developing Captive Breeding Programs for Mammals.” In International Zoo Yearbook, vol. 17, pp. 81-89, 1977.
Greenwell, G. A., and Kiracofe, J. The International Wild Waterfowl Association, Inc.: History of Achievement, 1958-1977. Jamestown, N.D.: International World Waterfowl Association, 1977.
Hodgen, G. D.; Turner, C. K.; Smith, E. E.; and Bush, M. “Pregnancy Diag-
346 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 357>>>

nosis in the Orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus) Using the Subhuman Primate Pregnancy Test Kit.” Laboratory Animal Science 27, no. 1 (1977): 99-101.
Hoopes, J.; Montali, R. J.; Ensley, P. K.; Bush, M.; and Koch, S. A. “Allergic Conjunctivitis in a Juvenile Black Spider Monkey.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 171, no. 9 (1977): 870-71.
Kennedy, S.; Crisler, J. P.; Smith, E. E.; and Bush, M. “Lead Poisoning in Sandhill Cranes.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 171, no. 9 (1977): 955-58.
Kennedy, S.; Montali, R. J.; Smith, E. E.; and Bush, M. “An Outbreak of Systemic Mycosis with Absidia corymbifera in a Reindeer Herd.” In Proceedings of the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, pp. 40—44, 1977.
Kleiman, D. G. “Changes in the Golden Lion Tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia) Population in 1976.” American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums Newsletter 18 (1977): 20-21.
. “Monogamy in Mammals.” Quarterly Review of Biology 52 (1977):
39-69.
. “1975 World Register of Golden Lion Tamarins (Leontopithecus
rosalia rosalia).” In International Zoo Yearbook, vol. 17, p. 232, 1977.
. “Pheromones in Mammals.” In International Encyclopedia of Psychia-
try, Psychology, Psychoanalysis, and Neurology, vol. 8, pp. 369-73, 1977.
. “Progress and Problems in Lion Tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia) Reproduction.” International Zoo Yearbook, vol. 17, pp. 92-97, 1977.
Kleiman, D. G., and Mack, D. S. “A Peak in Sexual Activity During MidPregnancy in the Golden Lion Tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia (Primates: Callitrichidae).” Journal of Mammalogy 58 (1977): 657-60.
Laurie, A., and Seidensticker, J. “Behavioral Ecology of the Sloth Bear.” Journal of Zoology 182 (1977): 187-204.
Marcellini, D. L. “Acoustic and Visual Display Behavior of Gekkonid Lizards.” American Zoologist 17 (1977): 251-60.
. “FONZ Research Support.” ZooGoer 5, no. 6 (1977): 15-17.
. “The Functions of the Vocal Display of the Lizard, Hemidactylus
frenatus.” Animal Behavior 25 (1977): 414-17.
. “Siamang Gibbon Birth.” ZooGoer 6, no. 2 (1977): 11-12.
Montgomery, G. G., and Lubin, Y. D. “Prey Influences on Movements of Neotropical Anteaters.” In Proceedings of the 1975 Predator Symposium, edited by R. Phillips and C. Jonkel, pp. 103-31. Montana Forest and Conservation Experiment Station, 1977.
Morton, E. S. “Ecology and Behavior of Some Panamanian Odonata.” In Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol. 79, no. 2, p. 273, 1977.
. “Intratropical Migration in the Yellow-Green Vireo and Piratic Fly-
catcher.” Auk 94, no. 1 (1977): 97-106.
. “On the Occurrence and Significance of Motivation-Structural Rules
in Some Bird and Mammal Sounds.” American Naturalist 111 (1977):
855-69.
. “Guide to the Birds of Panama.” Auk 94, 1 (1977): 183-184.
Morton, E. S., and Shalter, M. D. “Vocal Response to Predators in Pair-Bonded Carolina Wrens.” Condor 79, no. 2 (1977): 222-27.
Novak, G. R.; James, A. E., Jr.; and Bush, M. “Rhinorrhea, Ventricular Radiopharmaceutical Stasis and Communicating Hydrocephalus: Evaluation by Serial Cisternography.” Investigative Radiology 12, no. 1 (1977): 101-5.
Ralls, Katherine. “Okologie und Verhalten des Banteng (Bos javanicus), by U. Halder.” Journal of Mammalogy 58 (1977): 255-56.
. “Sexual Dimorphism in Mammals: Avian Models and Unanswered Questions.” American Naturalist 111 (1977): 917-38.
Rudran, R. Socioecology of the Blue Monkeys (Cercopithecus mitis stuhlmanni) of the Kibale Forest, Uganda. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 249. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 347

<<<Page: 358>>>

Seidensticker, J. “Notes on Early Maternal Behavior of the Leopard.” Mammalia 41 (1977): 111-13.
Smeller, J. M.; Bush, M.; and Custer, R. “The Immobilization of Marsupials.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 8, no. 3 (1977): 16-20.
Wemmer, C. “Can Wildlife Be Saved in Zoos?” New Scientist 75, no. 1068 (1977): 585-87.
Wemmer, C., and Scow, K. “Communication in the Felidae with Emphasis on Scent-Marking and Contact Patterns.” In How Animals Communicate, edited by T. Sebeok, pp. 749-66. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1977.
Xanten, W. A. “Bicentennial Baby Arrives.” ZooGoer 6, no. 1 (1977): 11-12.
Adey, Walter H.; Macintyre, Ian G.; Stuckenrath, Robert; and Dill, Robert F. “Relict Barrier Reef System off St. Croix: Its Implications with Respect to Later Cenozoic Coral Reef Development in the Western Atlantic.” In Proceedings, Third International Coral Reef Symposium, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science. Miami, Fla.: University of Miami, 1977.
Adovasio, J. M.; Gunn, J. D.; Donahue, J.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. ‘““Meadowcroft Rockshelter: Retrospect 1977.” Pennsylvania Archeologist 42 (1977); 1-93.
Adovasio, J. M.; Gunn, J. D.; Donahue, J.; Stuckenrath, Robert; Guilday, J.; and Lard, K. “Meadowcroft Rockshelter.” In Early Man in America from a Circum-Pacific Perspective, edited by A. L. Bryant, pp. 140-80, 1978.
Aikens, C. Melvin; Cole, David L.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. “Excavations at Dirty Shame Rockshelter Southeastern Oregon.” In Tebiwa. Miscellaneous Papers of the Idaho State University, Museum of Natural History, no. 4, Ppl 29 O77.
Cleland, Charles F. “The Flowering Enigma.” BioScience 28 (1978): 265-69.
Dumond, D. E.; Stuckenrath, Robert; and Henn, W. “Archaeology and Prehistory of the Alaska Peninsula.” In Anthropological Papers of the University of Alaska, vol. 18, pp. 17-29, 1976
Gantt, Elisabeth. “Yearly Review. Recent Contributions in Phycobiliproteins and Phycobilisomes.” Photochemistry and Photobiology 26 (1977): 685-89.
Gantt, Elisabeth, and Lipschultz, Claudia A. “Probing Phycobilisome Structure by Immuno-electron Microscopy.” Journal of Phycology 13 (1977): 185-92.
Grabowski, J., and Gantt, E. “Photophysical Properties of Phycobiliproteins from Phycobilisomes: Fluorescence Lifetimes, Quantum Yields, and Polarization Spectra.” Photochemistry and Photobiology 28 (1978): 39-45.
. “Excitation Energy Migration in Phycobilisomes: Comparisons of Experimental Results and Theoretical Predictions.” Photochemistry and Photobiology 28 (1978): 47-54.
Jabben, Merten, and Deitzer, Gerald F. “A Method for Measuring Phytochrome in Plants Grown in White Light.” Photochemistry and Photobiology 27 (1978): 799-802.
Johnson, Eileen; Holliday, Vance T.; Kaczor, Michael J.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. “The Garza Occupation at the Lubbock Lake Site.” In Bulletin of the Texas Archaeological Society, vol. 48, pp. 83-109, 1977.
Klein, W. H., and Goldberg, B. Solar Radiation Measurements/1976-1977. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Macintyre, Ian G.; Burke, Randolph B.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. “Thickest Recorded Holocene Reef Section, Isla Perez Core Hole, Alacran Reef, Mexico.” Geology 5 (1977): 749-54.
Macintyre, Ian G.; Pilkey, Orrin H.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. “Relict Oysters on the United States Atlantic Continental Shelf: A Reconsideration of
348 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 359>>>

Their Usefulness in Understanding Late Quaternary Sea-Level History.” In Geological Society of America Bulletin, vol. 89, pp. 277-82, 1978.
Péwe, Troy L.; Journaux, Andre; and Stuckenrath, Robert. ‘Radiocarbon Dates and Late-Quaternary Stratigraphy from Mamontova Gora, Unglaciated Central Yakutia, Siberia, U.S.S.R.” Quaternary Research 8 (1977): 51-63.
Shropshire, Walter, Jr. “Photomorphogenesis.” In The Science of Photobiology, by Kendric C. Smith, pp. 281-312. New York: Plenum Publishing Corporation, 1977.
Stanley, Daniel J.; Knight, R. John; Stuckenrath, Robert; and Catani, Gianpiero. “High Sedimentation Rates and Variable Dispersal Patterns in the Western Hellenic Trench.” Nature 273 (1978): 110-13.
Zilinskas, B. A.; Zimmerman, B. K.; and Gantt, E. “Allophycocyanin Forms Isolated from Nostoc sp. Phycobilisomes.” Photochemistry and Photobiology 27 (1978): 587-95.
(Including Contributions from Harvard Members of the Center for Astrophysics)
Ahmad, I. A., and Withbroe, G. L. “EUV Analysis of Polar Plumes.” Solar Physics 53 (1977): 397-408.
Aksnes, K. “Quantitative Analysis of the Dermott-Gold Theory for Uranus’s Rings.” Nature 269 (1977): 783.
Aksnes, K., and Franklin, F. A. “Mutual Phenomena of Jupiter’s Five Inner Satellites in 1979.” Icarus 34 (1978): 188-93.
. “Mutual Phenomena of Saturn’s Satellites in 1979-1980.” Icarus 34 (1978): 194-207.
Averett, E. H., and Vernazza, J. E. “Scattering in the Doppler Core of the Solar Ly a Line.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 432.
. “Mean Chromospheric Models.” In Proceedings of the November 7-10, 1977, OSO-8 Workshop, p. 1. Boulder: University of Colorado, 1978.
Baliunas, S. L.; Hartman, L. W.; Liller, W.; Vaughan, A. H., Jr.; Avrett, E. H.; and Dupree, A. K. “Photometric and Spectrometric Variability of Ca II H and K in Gand K-Type Giants.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10 (1978): 461.
Ball, J. A. Algorithms for RPN Calculators. New York: Wiley, 1978.
. “Pointing and Range of a Pocket Calculator.” Ham Radio Magazine 11, no. 2 (1978): 40.
Bond, H. E.; Liller, W.; and Mannery, E. J. “UU Sagittae: Eclipsing Nucleus of the Planetary Nebula Abell 63.” Astrophysical Journal 223 (1978): 25259.
Brinkman, A. C.; Heise, J.; den Boggende, A. J. F.; Grindlay, J.; Gursky, H.; and Tucker, W. “X-ray Observations from Cygnus A region with ANS.” Astrophysical Journal 214 (1977): 35-37.
Broadfoot, A. L.; Sandel, B. R.; Shemansky, D. E.; Atreya, S. K.; Donahue, T. M.; Moos, H. W.; Bertaux, J. L.; Blamont, J. E.; Ajello, J. M.; Strobel, D. F.; McConnell, J. C.; Dalgarno, A.; Goody, R.; McElroy, M. B.; and Yung, Y. L. “Ultraviolet Spectrometer Experiment for the Voyager Mission.” Space Science Review 21 (1977): 183-205.
Cardon, B. L., and Smith, P. L. “Physics beyond the Fringe: Hooks, Oscillator Strengths, and Solar Abundance.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society 23 (1978): 705.
Chaffee, F. H., and Lutz, B. L. “The Detection of Interstellar Diatomic Carbon toward Ophiuchi.” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): L91-L94.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 349

<<<Page: 360>>>

Chaisson, E. J. “Cosmic Evolution: A Synthesis of Matter and Life.” Harvard Magazine (November—December 1977) : 20-33.
Chaisson, E. J.; Lichten, S. M.; and Rodriguez, L. F. “The Helium Problem in Sagittarius B2.” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): 81-15.
. “The Helium Problem in Sagittarius B2.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1978): 555.
Christensen, S. M. “Regularization, Renormalization, and Covariant Geodesic Point Separation.” Physical Review D 17 (1978): 946-63.
Cominsky, L.; Jones, C.; Forman, W.; and Tananbaum, H. “Transient X-ray Sources in the Galactic Plane.” Astrophysical Journal 224 (1978): 46-52. Cooke, B. A.; Ricketts, M. J.; Maccacaro, T.; Pye, J. P.; Elvis, M.; Watson, M. G.; Griffiths, R. E.; Pounds, K. A.; McHardy, I.; Maccagni, F. D.; Seward, F. D.; Page, C. G.; and Turner, M. J. L. “The Ariel v (SSI) Catalogue of High Galactic Latitude (|b"|>10°) X-ray Sources.” Monthly No-
tices of the Royal Astronomical Society 182 (1978): 455-70.
Cowley, A. P.; Crampton, D.; Hutchings, J. B.; Liller, W.; and Sanduleak, N. “Optical Candidates for 3U1538-52.” Astrophysical Journal 218 (1977): L3-L6.
Cox, L.; Lewis, J.; and Lecar, M. “A Model for Close Encounters in the Planetary Problem.” Icarus 34 (1978): 415-27.
Cravens, T. E., and Dalgarno, A. “Ionization, Dissociation, and Heating Efficiencies of Cosmic Rays in a Gas of Molecular Hydrogen.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): 750-52.
Dalgarno, A. “Formation and Excitation of Molecular Hydrogen.” In Topics in Interstellar Matter, edited by H. van Woerden, pp. 125-33. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1977.
. “Atomic and Molecular Data.” In Planetary Nebulae, edited by Y. Terzian, pp. 139-49. Boston: R. Reidel Publishing Company, 1978.
Dalgarno, A., and Butler, S. E. “Charge Transfer of Multiply-ionized Species.” Atomic and Molecular Physics 7 (1978): 129-35.
Davies, J.; Golub, L.; and Krieger, A. S. “Solar Cycle Variation of Magnetic Flux Emergence.” Astrophysical Journal 214 (1977): L141-L144.
Davies, M.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “The Local Mean Mass Density of the Universe: New Methods for Studying Galaxy Clustering.” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): 1-18.
Davies, P. C. W.; Fulling, S. A.; Christensen, S. M.; and Bunch, T. S. “Energy Momentum Tensor of a Massless Scalar Quantum Field in a RobertsonWalker Universe.” Annals of Physics 109 (1977): 108-42.
Delvaille, J. P.; Epstein, A.; and Schnopper, H. W. “The X-ray Structure of NGC 5128.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): L81—-L84.
Dickinson, D. F. “Cosmic Masers.” Scientific American (June 1978).
Dickinson, D. F.; Blair, G. N.; Davis, J. H.; and Cohen, N. L. “New Stellar Water Masers.” Astronomical Journal 83 (1978): 32-35.
Dickinson, D. F.; Reid, M. J.; Morris, M.; and Redman, R. “Long-Period Variables: Stellar and Expansion Velocities.” Astrophysical Journal 220 (1978): L113-L116.
Dickinson, D. F.; Snyder, L. E.; Brown, L. W.; and Buhl, D. “New Silicon Monoxide Masers.” Astronomical Journal 83 (1978): 36—40.
Draine, B. T., and Salpeter, E. E. “Intensity of Interstellar Lyman Alpha.” Nature 271 (1978): 730-31.
Dulk, G. A.; Sheridan, K. V.; Smerd, S. F.; and Withbroe, G. L. “Radio and EUV Observations of a Coronal Hole.” Solar Physics 52 (1977): 349-67. Dupree, A. K.; Baliunas S. J.; and Lester, J. B. “Detection of Emis-
sion HD153919 (3U1700-37).” Astrophysical Journal 218 (1977): L71-L74.
Eddy, J.; Noyes, R. W.; Wolbach, J. G.; and Boornazian, A. A.  “Secular Changes in Solar Rotation.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10 (1978): 400.
350 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 361>>>

Elmegreen, B. G.; Dickinson, D. F.; and Lada, C. J. “Heat Sources for Bright Rimmed Molecular Clouds: CO Observations of NGC 7822.” Astrophysical Journal 220 (1978): 853-63.
Elmegreen, B. G., and Lada, C. J. “CO and H:O Observations of the H Region near NGC 281.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): 467-74.
Emslie, A., and Noyes, R. W. The Characteristics of Impulsive Solar EUV Bursts.” Solar Physics 57 (1978): 373-83.
Epstein, R. I., and Geller, M. J. “A Model for Superlight Velocities of Extragalactic Radio Sources.” Nature 265 (1977): 219-22.
Fabricant, D.; Topka, K.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Gorenstein, P.  “Comparison of X-ray Structure of Clusters of Galaxies with Thermal Models of the Intra-Cluster Gas.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1978): 560.
Fazio, G. G. “A 102-cm Balloon-Borne Telescope for Far-Infrared Astronomy.” Optical Engineering 16 (1977): 551-57.
. “Infrared Astronomy Zooms to Prominence.” Aeronatics & Astronautics (January 1978): 40-51.
Fazio, G. G.; Lada, C.; Kleinmann, D.; Wright, E.; Ho, P.; and Low, F. “A New Compact Far-Infrared Source in the W31 Region.” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): L77-L81.
Feigelson, E.; Dexter, L.; and Liller, W. “The Optical Variability of the X-ray Binary AM Herculis.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): 263-68.
Field, G. B.; Verschuur, G. L.; and Ponnamperuma, C. Cosmic Evolution: An Introduction to Astronomy. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1978.
Fireman, E. L. “Radiochemical Study of Cosmic Rays and Baryon Conservation.” Neutrino ’77 1 (1978): 53-59.
Fireman, E. L.; DeFelice, J.; and D’Amico, J. ‘““C in Lunar Soil: TemperatureRelease and Grain-Size Dependence.” Geochimica and Cosmochimica Acta, supp. 8, vol. 3 (1977): 3748-54.
. “Carbon-14 in Lunar Soil.” In Lunar and Planetary Science IX, pp. 320-22. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1978.
Forman, W.; Jones, C.; Murray, S; and Giacconi, R. “Detection of Large Xray Halos in Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal (1978).
Foukal, P. “Magnetic Loops, Downflows, and Convection in the Solar Corona,” Astrophysical Journal 223 (1978): 1046-57.
Fox, J. L.; Dalgarno, A.; and Victor, G. A. “The Absorption of Energetic Electrons by Argon Gas.” In Planetary and Space Science, vol. 25, pp. 71-78, 1977.
Franklin, F. A., and Colombo, G. “On the Azimuthal Brightness Variations of Saturn’s Rings.” Icarus 33 (1978): 279-87.
Freeman, D. E.; Yoshino, K.; and Tanaka, Y. “Vacuum Ultraviolet Absorption Spectra of Binary Rare Gas Mixtures and the Properties of Heteronuclear Rare Gas van der Waals Molecules.” Journal of Chemical Physics 67 (1977): 3462-81.
Gaposchkin, E. M. “Global Gravity Field from Geos-3 Satellite Altimetry and Other Data.” In Transactions of the American Geophysical Union, vol 59, p. 260.
Garrison, R. F.; Hiltner, W. A.; and Schild, R. E. “MK Spectral Classifications for Southern OB Stars.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 35 (1977): 11126.
Geller, M. J. “Large-Scale Structure in the Universe.” American Scientist 66 (1978) : 176-84.
Gettys, J., and Schild, R. E. “A Photometric Peculiarity Index in the Ap Stars.” In Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 89, pp. 519Zon A977,
Giacconi, R. “The Origin of X-ray Emission from Clusters.” Europhysics Journal 17, no. 3 (1978).
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 351

<<<Page: 362>>>

. “Extragalactic X-ray Sources (1).” Europhysics Journal 17, no. 3 (1978).
. “The HEAO-B X-ray Telescope and Its Observing Program.” Europhysics Journal 17, no. 3 (1978).
Gingerich, O. “Tycho Brahe and the Great Comet of 1577.” Sky and Telescope 54 (1977): 452-58.
. “The Basic Astronomy of Stonehenge.” Technology Review 80 (1977):
64-73.
. “Price of De revolutionibus.” Observatory 97 (1977): 147-48.
. “Ph.D. Language Requirement.” Physics Today 30 (1977): 9, 11.
. “James Lick and the Founding of Lick Observatory.” Pacific Discovery 31 (1978): 1-12.
Giuffrida, T. S.; Greenfield, P. E.; Burke, B. F.; Haschick, A. H.; Moran, J. M.; Rydbeck, O. E. H.; Ronnang, B. O.; Barth, L.; Yngvesson, K. S.; Matveyenko, L. I.; Kostenko, V. I.; Kogan, L. R.; and Moiseev, I. G.  “VLBI Studies of the W3(OH) Water Maser.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 576.
Golub, L.; Krieger, A. S.; Harvey, J. W.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Magnetic Properties of X-ray Bright Points.” Solar Physics 53 (1977): 111-21.
Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Coronal Heating and Its Relation to Magnetic Field Evolution.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10 (1978): 440.
Golub, L., and Vaiana, G. S. “Differential Rotation Rates for Short-lived Features of Emerging Magnetic Flux.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): L55-—L57.
Gorenstein, P.; Fabricant, D.; and Harnden, F. R., Jr. “Soft X-ray Structure of the Coma Cluster of Galaxies.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 560.
Gorenstein, P.; Fabricant, D.; Topka, K.; Tucker, W. H.; and Harnden, F. R., Jr. “Structure of the X-ray Source in the Virgo Cluster of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 216 (1977): L95-L99.
Gottlieb, C. A.; Gottlieb, E. W.; Litvak, M. M.; Ball, J. A.; and Penfield H. “Observations of Interstellar Sulfur Monoxide.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): 77-94.
Gottlieb, E. W., and Liller, W. “The Historical Light Curve of PKS 2134+ 004, a Highly Luminous QSO.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): L1-L2.
. “Photometric Histories of Five Infrared Objects and Three Highly Reddened Blue Supergiants.” Astrophysical Journal (1978).
Griffiths, R. S.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; Friedman, H.; Gursky, H.; Johnston, M.; Leach, R.; Longmore, A.; Malin, D. A.; Murdin, P.; Ricketts, M. J.; Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.; and Watson, M. G. “Nova Ophiuchi 1977: An X-ray Nova.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977) : 627.
Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; Friedman, H.; Gursky, H.; Johnston, M.; Longmore, A.; Malin, D. A.; Murdin, P.; Schwartz, D. A.; and Schwarz, J. “Nova Ophiuchi: An X-ray Nova. Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): L63—L67.
Griffiths, R. E., and Seward, F. D. “Observations of the LMC X-ray Sources with the Ariel v Sky Survey Instrument.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 180 (1977): 75P-79P.
Grindlay, J. E.; Gursky, H.; Parsignault, D. R.; Brinkman, A. C.; Heise, J.; and Cohn, H. “X-ray Observations of Globular Clusters with ANS.” Astrophysical Journal 212 (1977): L67-L71.
Grindlay, J. E., and Liller, W. “Optical Identification of 4U1608—-52.” Astrophysical Journal 220 (1978): L127—L130.
Grossi, M. D., and Colombo, G. “Spaceborne High-power Microwave Beam at 22.2 GHz (Water-Vapor Absorption Line) and Its Potential for Atmospheric Modifications.” Journal of Microwave Power 12, no. 3 (1977): 209-13.
352 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 363>>>

Gursky, H.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.; Dower, R.; Fabbiano, G.; Griffiths, R. E.; Johnston, M.; Leach, R.; Ramsey, A.; and Spada, G. “Measurement of X-ray Source Positions by the Scanning Modulation Collimator on HEAO-1.” Astrophysical Journal 223 (1978): 973-78.
Hagen, W. “The Circumstellar Envelopes of M Giants and Supergiants.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): L37-L40.
Hansen, S. S.; Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; Johnston, K. J.; Spencer, J. H. and Walker, R. C. “The Hydroxyl Masers in the Orion Nebula.” Astrophyical Journal 218 (1977): L65-L69.
Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Lightman, A.; and Gorenstein, P. “Large Population of Low Luminosity Stellar X-ray Sources—Implications for Observers.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1978): 627.
Hartmann, L. “Disk Structure of Early-Type Envelopes.” Astrophysical Journal (1978).
. “The Infrared Eclipse of V444 Cygni and the Structure of Wolf-Rayet Winds.” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): 193-99.
Hartmann, L. W., and Raymond, J. C. “Nebular Observations and Stellar Coronae.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): 541—46.
Helmken, H.; Delvaille, J. P.; Epstein, A.; Geller, M. J.; Schnopper, H. W.; and Jernigan, J. G. “Compact and Extended X-ray Sources in the Core of the Perseus Cluster (A426).” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): L43—L48.
Herzberg, C., and Wood, J. A. “Spinel Cataclasites as Samples of the Lower Crust of the Moon.” In Lunar and Planetary Science 1x, pp. 500— 502. Houston: Lunar Science Institute, 1977.
Hodge, P. W., and Wright, F. W. The Small Magellanic Cloud. Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1978.
. “Variable Stars in the Leo 1 Dwarf Galaxy.” Astronomical Journal 83 (1978): 228-33.
Hollingsworth, L. M., and Liller, M. H. “An RR Lyrae Star in NGC 288.” Information Bulletin on Variable Stars, no. 1360, 1977.
Huchra, J. “Star Formation in Blue Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 217 (1977) : 928-29.
Huchra, J., and Geller, M. J. “Groups of Galaxies: Density Enhancements in Redshift Space.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 583.
Johnson, D. R.; Lovas, F. J.; Gottlieb, C. A.; Gottlieb, E. W.; Litvak, M. M.; Guelin, M.; and Thaddeus, P. “Detection of Interstellar Ethyl Cyanide.” Astrophysical Journal 218 (1977): 370-76.
Jones, C., and Forman, W. “X-ray Clusters of Galaxies and the LuminosityRichness Relation.” Astrophysical Journal 224 (1978): 1-13.
Kirby-Docken, K., and Liu, B. “Absorption Oscillator Strengths for VibrationRotation Transitions of Ground State CO.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 36 (1978): 359-87.
Kirby-Docken, K., and Oppenheimer, M. “Indirect Determinations of Molecular Oxygen Densities in the Daytime Thermosphere from Atmosphere Explorer-C Measurements.” Journal of Geophysical Research 82 (1977): 3503-8.
Klein, R. I.; Stein, R. F.; and Kalkofen, W. “Radiative Shock Dynamics. 1. Hydrogen Continua.” Astrophysical Journal 220 (1978): 1024-40.
Klemola, A. R.; Liller, W.; and Marsden, B. G. “Predicted Occultations by Neptune, 1978-1980.” Astronomical Journal 83 (1978): 205-7.
Klemola, A. R., and Marsden, B. G. “Predicted Occultations by the Rings of Uranus, 1978-1980.” Astronomical Journal 82 (1977): 849-51.
Kohl, J. L.; Lafyatis, G. P.; Palenius, B. P.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Absolute Cross Section for Photoionization of Atomic Oxygen.” Physical Review A 18 (1978): 64-67.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 353

<<<Page: 364>>>

Kohl, J. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Kurucz, R. L. Center and Limb Solar Spectrum in High Spectral Resolution, 225.2 nm-319.6 nm. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 1978.
Kohl, J. L.; Reeves, E. M.; and Kirkham, B. “The Lyman Alpha Coronagraph.” In New Instrumentation for Space Astronomy, edited by K. van der Hucht and G. S. Vaiana, p. 91. Oxford and New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.
Kopp, J. P.; Frederick, J. E.; Rusch, D. W.; and Victor, G. A. “Morning and Evening Behavior of the F-Region Green Line Emission: Evidence Concern-
ing the Sources of 0('S).” Journal of Geophysical Research 82 (1977): 4715— ie),
Kowal, C. T.; Liller, W.; and Marsden, B. G. “The Discovery and Orbit of 1977 UB.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10 (1978): 481.
Kuhne, M., and Kohl, J. L. “Absolute Radiometric Measurements of the Emission from a BRV Source at 34 nm.” Applied Optics 16 (1977): 1786. Kurucz, R.; Traub, W.; Carleton, N.; and Lester, J. ‘““The Rotational Velocity
and Barium Abundance of Sirius.” Astrophysical Journal 217 (1977): 771-74.
Lada, C. J., and Reid, M. J. “CO Observations of a Molecular Cloud Complex Associated with the Bright Rim near VY CMa.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): 95-104.
Lafyatis, G. P., and Kohl, J. L. “Absolute Photoabsorption Cross Section of Atomic Oxygen.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society 22 (1977): 1324.
Latham, D. W.; Feigelson, E. D.; and Lester, J. B. “Grid Photography.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 8 (1977): 566.
Layzer, D. “Is the Universe Running Down?” Griffith Observer 42 (1978): 10— Wo
Levine, R. H. “EUV Structure of a Small Flare.” Solar Physics 56 (1977): 185— 203.
. “Evolution of Open Magnetic Fields on the Sun: The Skylab Period.”
Astrophysical Journal 218 (1977): 291-305.
. “Evolution of Photospheric Magnetic Field Patterns during Skylab.”
Solar Physics 54 (1977): 327-41.
. “Recurrent Minima in Solar Energetic Particle Fluxes and Their Association with Coronal Magnetic Structure.” In Transactions of the American Geophysical Union, vol. 58, p. 1204, 1978.
Lightman, A. P.; Giacconi, R.; and Tananbaum, H. “Rapid X-ray Variability in NGC 4151: Accretion onto a Massive Black Hole?” Astrophysical Journal (1978).
Liller, M. H., and Carney, B. W. “A Photometric Study of the X-ray Globular Cluster NGC 6624.” Astrophysical Journal (1978).
Liller, M. H., and Coutts, Clement C. “The Variable Stars in the Globular Cluster NGC 6535.” Astronomical Journal 82 (1977): 965-71.
Liller, M. H., and Lichten, S. M. “The Variable Stars in the Globular Cluster NGC 5986.” Astronomical Journal (1978).
. “The Variable Stars in the Globular Cluster NGC 5286.” Astronomical Journal 83 (1978): 41-47.
Liller, W. “Optical Observations of X-ray Globular Clusters.” In Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, vol. 304, pp. 248-60, 1977.
. “Colors and Magnitudes of Stars Occulted by the Rings of Uranus, 1977-90.” Astronomical Journal 82 (1977): 929.
Liller, W.; Papaliolios, C.; French, R. G.; Elliot, J. L.; and Church, C. “The Occultation of Gem by Mars as Observed from Agassiz Station.” Icarus (1978).
Lin, C. D.; Johnson, W. R.; and Dalgarno, A. “Oscillator Strengths of Transitions between Low-Lying S and P States of Helium-Like Ions.” Astrophysical Journal 217 (1977): 1101-15.
354 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 365>>>

Lin, C. D.; Laughlin, C.; and Victor, G. A. “Magnetic Quadrupole Transitions of the Beryllium and Magnesium Isoelectronic Sequences.” Astrophysical Journal 220 (1978): 734-36.
Liu, B.; O-Ohata, Kyosi; and Kirby-Docken, K. “Theoretical Study of the Anion of Lithium Hydride.” Journal of Chemical Physics 67 (1977): 1850-57.
MacGregor, K. B. “Coronal Regions in the Winds of Early-Type Stars.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10 (1978): 412.
Marsden, B. G. “Carl Friedrich Gauss, Astronomer.” Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 71 (1977): 309-23.
. “Report of Meeting of Commission 6.” In Transactions of the Inter-
national Astronomical Union, vol. 16B, p. 75, 1977.
. “The Mini-Planet.” New Scientist 76 (1977): 827.
. “The Rings of Uranus.” Physics News (1977) : 8-9.
Marsden, B. G., and Roemer, E. “Comets in 1974.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 19 (1978): 38-58.
. “Comets in 1975.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 19 (1978): 59-89.
Marsden, B. G.; Sekanina, Z.; and Everhart, E. “New Osculating Orbits for 110 Comets and Analysis of Original Orbits for 200 Comets.” Astrophysical Journal 83 (1978): 64-71.
Marvin, U. B.; Ryder, G.; and McSween, H. Y., Jr. “Some Exotic Particles in the Luna 24 Probe.” In Conference on Luna 24, pp. 106-9. Houston: Lunar Science Institute, 1977.
Matveyenko, L. I.; Moran, J. M.; Kogan, L. R.; Moiseev, I. G.; Burke, B. F. “Radiointerferometer with Crimea-Haystack Base Line.” Pisma v Astronomicheskii Jhurnal 4 (1978): 51-56.
Matveyenko, L. I.; Moran, J. M.; Kostenko, V. I.; Kogan, L. R.; Moiseev, Ie G.; and Burke, B. F. “H2O Observations of W51 Object with the CrimeaHaystack Interferometer.” Pisma v Astronomicheskii Jhurnal 4 (1978): 57-63.
Maxson, C. W., and Vaiana, G. S. “Determination of Plasma Parameters from Soft X-ray Images for Coronal Holes (Open Magnetic Field) and Coronal Large-Scale Structures (Extended Closed-Field Configuration).” Astrophysical Journal 215 (1977): 919-41.
Mende, S. B., and Chaffee, F. H. “Single Electron Counting by Self-Scanning Diode Array in a Kron Camera.” Applied Optics (October 1977): 2698-702.
Moore, R.; Tang, F.; Bohlin, J. D.; and Golub, L. “He Macrospicules: Identification with EUV Macrospicules and with Flares in X-ray Bright Points.” Astrophysical Journal 218 (1977): 286-90.
Moran, J. M.; Johnston, K. J.; Spencer, J. H.; and Schwartz, P. R. “Observations of the SiO and H:O Masers in Orion A.” Astrophysical Journal 217 (1977): 434-41.
Murray, S.; Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and Giacconi, R. “Evidence for X-ray Emission from Superclusters of Galaxies Determined from UHURU.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): L89-L93.
Noyes, R. W. “The Faint Object Spectrograph for Space Telescope.” In New Instrumentation for Space Astronomy, edited by K. van der Hucht and G. S. Vaiana, pp. 71-74. Oxford and New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.
Oppenheimer, M. “What Are Comets Made of?” Natural History 87 (1978): 42-48.
Oppenheimer, M.; Constantinides, E. R.; Kirby-Docken, K.; Victor, G. A.; Dalgarno, A.; and Hoffman, J. H. “Ion Photochemistry of the Thermosphere from Atmosphere Explorer-C Measurements.” Journal of Geophysical Research 82 (1977): 5485-92.
Oppenheimer, M.; Potter, W. E.; Kayser, D. C.; Brinton, H. C.; and Brace, L. H. “Comparison of Measured and Calculated Thermospheric Molecular Oxygen Densities.” Journal of Geophysical Research 82 (1977): 5243-48.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 355

<<<Page: 366>>>

Pallavicini, R.; Serio, S.; and Vaiana, G. S. “A Survey of Soft X-ray Limb Flare Images: The Relationship between Their Structure in the Corona and Other Physical Parameters.” Astrophysical Journal 216 (1977): 108-22.
Parkinson, W. H., and Tomkins, F. S. “The gf Value of the Intercombination Line of Barium, Ba I.” Journal of the Optical Society of America 68 (1978): 535.
Parsignault, D. R.; Epstein, A.; Grindlay, J. E.; Gursky, H.; and Cohn, H. “Radiation Environment Detected by a Proportional Counter in Earth Orbit.” In The Moon and the Planets, vol. 18, pp. 41-64.
Parsignault, D. R.; Grindlay, J.; Gursky, H.; and Tucker, W. “Observational Constraints on the Models for Cygnus X-3.” Astrophysical Journal 218 (1977): L232—-L242.
Payne-Gaposchkin, C. H. ‘Fifty Years of Novae.” Astronomical Journal 82 (1977): 665-73.
Peres, G.; Serio, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; and Rosner, R. “Solar X-ray Transients in Magnetically-Confined Plasma: Observational Data and Hydrodynamic Model.” In Space Research xvi, edited by M. J. Rycroft and A. C. Stickland, pp. 341-44. New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.
Phillips, M. J., and Hartmann, L. “Long Term Variability of dMe Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 224 (1978): 182-84.
Porter, N. A., and Weekes, T. C. “A Search for High Energy Gamma-ray Bursts from Primordial Black Holes or Other Astronomical Objects.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 183 (1978): 205.
Raymond, J. C. “On Dielectronic Recombination and Resonances in Excitation Cross Sections.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): 1114-16.
Raymond, J. C., and Dupree, A. K. “Carbon ur Density Diagnostics in NonEquilibrium Plasmas.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): 379-83.
Relyea, L., and Kurucz, R. “A Theoretical Analysis of uvby Photometry.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 37 (1978): 45-69.
Ricker, G. R.; Doxsey, R. E.; Dower, R. G.; Jernigan, J. G. Delvaille, J. P.; MacAlpine, G. M.; and Hjellming, R. M. “Discovery of an X-ray QSO.” Nature 271 (1977): 35-37.
Rodriguez, L. F., and Chaisson, E. J. “A Comparative Study of High-Radiofrequency and Far-Infrared Observations of Galactic H 1 Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): 816-24.
Rosen, B. R.; Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; Walker, R. D.; Burke, B. F.; Johnston, K. J.; and Spencer, J. H. “Observations of OH and HxO Microwave Maser Emission from Canis Majoris.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): 132-39.
Rosner, R.; Golub, L.; Coppi, B.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Heating of Coronal Plasma by Anomalous Current Dissipation.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978) : 317-32.
Rosner, R.; Tucker, W. H.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Dynamics of the Quiescent Solar Corona.” Astrophysical Journal 220 (1978): 643-65.
Rosner, R., and Vaiana, G. S. “Hydrostatic and Dynamic Models of Solar Coronal Holes.” Astrophysical Journal 216 (1977): 141-57.
. “Constraints upon Models for Solar and Other Flare Transients.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): 1104-8.
Ryder, G.; McSween, H. Y., Jr.; and Marvin, U. B. “Basalts from Mare Crisium.” In The Moon, vol. 17, pp. 263-87, 1977.
Schild, R. E. “Energy Distributions of Be Stars in Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 37 (1978): 77-100.
Schmahl, E. J.; Solodyna, C.; Cheng, C-C.; and Smith, J. B., Jr.  “Pre-Onset Visible, EUV and X-ray Flare Structures.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10 (1978): 456.
Schnopper, H. W., and Delvaille, J. P. “Extragalactic X-ray Sources.” In Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, Proceedings of the 8th Texas Symposium of Relativistic Astrophysics, edited by M. D. Papagiannis, pp. 300-311. New York: The New York Academy of Sciences, 1977.
356 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 367>>>

Schnopper, H. W.; Delvaille, J. P.; Epstein, A.; Helmken, H.; Harris, D. E.; Strom, R. G.; Clark, C. W.; and Jernigan, J. G. “X-ray and Radio Observations of the Structure of Abell 478.” Astrophysical Journal 217 (1977): L15L18.
Schwartz, D. A.; Gursky, H.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; Schwarz, J.; Dower, R.; Fabbiano, G.; Griffiths, R. E.; Johnston, M.; Leach, R.; Ramsey, A.; and Spada, G. ‘Measurements of X-ray Source Positions by the Scanning Modulation Collimator on HEAO-1.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 626.
Sekanina, Z. “Splitting of Comet West (1975n).” In Transactions of the
International Astronomical Union, vol. 16B, edited by E. M. Miiller and A.
Jappel, p. 140. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1977.
. “Orbits and Photometric Behavior of Comets of Large
Perihelion Distance.” In Transactions of the International Astronomical
Union, vol. 16B, edited by E. A. Miiller and A. Jappel, p. 164. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1977.
. “Differential Nongravitational Forces in the Motions of the Split
Comets.” In Comets, Asteroids, Meteorites: Interrelations, Evolution, and
Origins. Proceedings, International Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 39,
edited by A. J. Delsemme, pp. 51-56. Toledo, Ohio: University of Toledo
Press, 1977.
. “Meteor Streams in the Making.” In Comets, Asteroids, Meteorites:
Interrelations, Evolution, and Origins. Proceedings, International Astro-
nomical Union Colloquium No. 39, edited by A. H. Delsemme, pp. 159-68.
Toledo, Ohio: University of Toledo Press, 1977.
. “Dust Evolution from Comets.” In Space Research xvu, edited by M.
J. Rycroft and A. C. Stickland, pp. 573-84. Oxford and New York: Per-
gamon Press, 1977.
. “Relative Motions of Fragments of the Split Comets u. Separation Velocities and Differential Decelerations for Extensively Observed Comets.” Icarus 33 (1978): 173-85.
Sekanina, Z., and Schuster, H. E. “Meteoroids from Periodic Comet d’Arrest.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 65 (1978): 29-35.
Serio, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Godoli, G.; Motta, S.; Pirronello, V.; and Zappala, R. A. “Dynamical Behaviour of Coronal Cavities, Prominence Material and Magnetic Field.” In Space Research xvi, edited by M. J. Rycroft and A. C. Stickland, pp. 337-39. New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.
Seward, F. D. “A Trip to the Crab Nebula.” Journal of the British Interplanetary Society 31 (1978): 83-92.
Seward, F. D., and Liller, W. “Was the Bright Transient X-ray Source Centaurus XR-41 a Globular Cluster?” In Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vol. 89, pp. 696-98, 1977.
Shao, C-Y., and Liller, W. “Astrometry and Photometry of Stars in the Vicinity of the Hulse-Taylor Binar Pulsar.” Astrophysical Journal 223 (1978): 266-67.
Shapiro, P. R., and Field, G. B. “Consequences of a New Hot Component of the Interstellar Medium.” Astrophysical Journal 205 (1977): 762-65.
Shorer, P., and Dalgarno, A. “Relativistic Random-Phase Approximation Calculations on the Zinc Isoelectronic Sequence.” Physical Review A 16 (1977): 1502-6.
Spada, G.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; Griffiths, R.; Gursky, H.; Schwartz, D. A.; and Schwarz, J. “Search for Interstellar Scattering X-ray Halos with HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 626.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 357

<<<Page: 368>>>

Svestka, Z.; Solodyna, C. V.; Howard, R.; and Levine, R. H. “Open Magnetic Fields in Active Regions.” Solar Physics 55 (1977): 359-69.
Takahashi, H.; Yokoyama, Y.; Fireman, E. L.; and Lorios, C.  “Iridium Content and Accretion Rate of Cosmic Matter.” In Lunar and Planetary Science 1x, vol. 2, pp. 1131-33. Houston: Lunar Science Institute, 1978.
Tananbaum, H.; Peters, G.; Forman, W.; Giacconi, R.; Jones, C.; and Avni, Y. “UHURU Observations of X-ray Emission from Seyfert Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 223 (1978): 74-81.
Timothy, J. G. “The Solar Spectrum between 300 and 1200 A.” In The Solar Output and Its Variation, edited by O. R. White, p. 237. Boulder, Colo. Associated University Press, 1977.
. “A Progress Report on Multi-Anode Microchannel Arrays.” In New Instrumentation for Space Astronomy, edited by K. van der Hucht and G. S. Vaiana, p. 43. New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.
Toor, A., and Seward, F. D. “Observation of X-rays from the Crab Pulsar.” Astrophysical Journal 216 (1977): 560-64.
Topka, K.; Fabricant, D.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Gorenstein, P.  “Short Observation of Bright Stars with a Rocket Borne Imaging X-ray Telescope.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1978): 560.
Traub, W.; Carleton, N.; and Black, J. “A Search for Emission from Vibrationally Excited Hz.” Astrophysical Journal 223 (1978): 140-46.
Traub, W.; Mariska, J.; and Carleton, N. “A Search for Stellar Oscillations.” Astrophysical Journal 223 (1978): 583-88.
Turner, J.; Kirby-Docken, K.; and Dalgarno, A. “The Quadrupole VibrationRotation Probabilities of Molecular Hydrogen.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 35 (1977): 281-92.
Ulmschneider, P.; Schmitz, F.; Renzini, A.; Cacciari, C.; Kalkofen, W.; and Kurucz, R. “Theoretical Stellar Chromospheres of the Late Type Stars 11. Temperature Minima.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 61 (1977): 515-27.
Uzer, R.; Watson, D. K.; and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Lifetimes of the B’I]u States of Lis.” Chemical Physics Letters 55 (1978): 6-8.
Vaiana, G. S. “Solar X-ray Imaging Techniques, Past and Future: The Sun as a Laboratory Plasma.” In New Instrumentation for Space Astronomy, edited by K. van der Hucht and G. S. Vaiana, pp. 177-88. New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.
Vessot, R. F. C., and Levine, M. “A Time Correlated Four-Link Doppler Tracking System.” In A Close-up of the Sun, edited by M. Neugebauer and R. W. Davies. Pasadena, Calif.: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1978.
Watson, M. G.; Ricketts, M. J.; and Griffiths, R. E. “The X-ray Light Curve of Nova Ophiuchi 1977 (H1705-25).” Astrophysical Journal 221 (1978): L69L/L,
Webb, D., and Schmahl, E. J. “Response of the Solar Atmosphere to Infalling Surge Material.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10 (1978): 455.
Wehlau, A.; Liller, M. H.; Demers, S.; and Coutts, Clement C. “Periods for Nineteen RR Lyrae Variables in NGC 1851.” Astronomical Journal 83 (1978): 598-605.
Whipple, F. L. “Rotation and Outbursts of Comet P/SchwassmannWachmann 1.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 563.
. “The Reality of Comet Groups and Pairs.” Icarus 30 (1977): 736.
. “The Status of Cometary Science.” In Proceedings of the ShuttleBased Cometary Workshop, edited by G. Allen Gary and K. S. Clifton, pp. 169-90. Alabama: NASA, George C. Marshall Space Flight Center, 1977.
. “The Constitution of Cometary Nuclei.” In Comets, Asteroids, Meteorites: Interrelations, Evolution, and Origins. Proceedings, International
358 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 369>>>

Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 39, edited by A. H. Delsemme, pp.
25-35. Toledo: Ohio: University of Toledo Press, 1977.
. “Cometary Brightness Variation and Nucleus Structure.” Moon and
the Planets 18 (1978): 343.
. “Comets.” In Cosmic Dust, edited by J. A. M. McDonnell. New York:
Wiley, 1978.
., The Rotation Period of Comet Donati.” Nature 273 (1978): 135.
. The Earth as a Part of the Universe.” In Annual Review of the Earth and Planetary Sciences, vol. 6, pp. 1-8, 1978.
Withbroe, G. L. “The Chromospheric and Transition Layers in Coronal Holes.” In Coronal Holes and High Speed Wind Streams, edited by J. B. Zirker, pp. 145-77. Colorado: Colorado Associated Press, 1977.
. “Models for the Solar Transition Layer.” In Proceedings of the November 7-10, 1977 OSO-8 Workshop, p. 2. Boulder: University of Colorado, 1977.
Withbroe, G. L., and Noyes, R. W. “Mass and Energy Flow in the Solar Chromosphere and Corona.” In Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics, vol. 15, pp. 363-87, 1977.
Wood, J. A. The Solar System. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1978.
. “Formation of the Solar Mg 1 Spectrum.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 9 (1977): 568.
Zarnecki, J. C.; Culhane, J. L.; Toor, A.; Seward, F. D.; and Charles, P. A. “The X-ray Spectrum and Structure of the Puppis—A Supernova Remnant.” Astrophysical Journal 219 (1978): L17-L21.
Zeilik, M., and Lada, C. J. “Near Infrared and CO Observations of W40 and W48.” Astrophysical Journal 222 (1978): 896-901.
Ferrari, Frank. “Spermatophore Placement in the copepod Euchaeta norvegica Boeck 1872 from Deepwater Dumpsite 106.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, no. 2, pp. 509-21, 1978.
Landrum, B. J. “Studies in Polar Biology.” Antarctic Journal of the United States 12, no. 4 (1977): 39-40.
Abele, Lawrence G. “Rediscovery of Sesarma aequatoriale Ortman, 1894, in the Eastern Pacific (Crustacea, Decapoda, Grapsidae).” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 90, no. 3, pp. 495-504, 1977.
. “The Taxonomic Status of Sesarma festae Novili, 1901, S. ophioderma Nobili, 1901, and S. biolleyi Rathbun, 1906 (Crustacea, Decapoda, Grapsidae) in the Eastern Pacific.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 89, pp. 631-44, 1977.
Abele, Lawrence, G., and Blum, Nina. “Ecological Aspects of the Freshwater Decapod Crustaceans of the Perlas Archipelago, Panama.” Biotropica 9, no. 4 (1977): 239-52.
Abrams, Peter. “Shell Selection and Utilization in a Terrestrial Hermit Crab, Coenobita compressus (Edwards).” Oecologia 34 (1978): 239-53.
Andrews, Robin M., and Asato, Teresa. “Energy Utilization of a Tropical Lizard.” Comparative Biochemical Physiology 58A (1977): 57-62.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 359

<<<Page: 370>>>

Bird, Junius, and Cooke, Richard. “Los Artefactos Mas Antiguos de Panama.” Revista Nacional de Cultura 6 (1977): 7-13.
. “The Occurrence in Panama of Two Types of Paleo-Indian Projectile Points.” In Early Man in America from a Circum-Pacific Perspective, pp. 115-72, 1977.
Birkeland, Charles. ‘The Importance of Rate of Biomass Accumulation in Early Successional Stages of Bethnic Communities to the Survival of Coral Recruits.” In Proceedings, Third Internationl Coral Reef Symposium, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, pp. 15-21. Miami, Fla.: University of Miami, 1977.
Bortone, Stephen A. “Gonad Morphology of the Hermaphroditic Fish Diplectrum pacificum (Serranidae).” Copeia 3 (1977): 448-53.
. “Observations on the Life History of Diplectrum pacificum and D.
macropoma (Serranidae) from the Bay of Panama.” Pacific Science 31, no. 1,
(1977): 49-60.
. “Osteological Notes on the Genus Centropristis (Pisces: Serranidae).”
Northeast Gulf Science 1, no. 1 (1977): 23-33.
. “Revision of the Sea Basses of the Genus Diplectrum (Pisces: Serranidae).”” NOAA Technical Report NMES Circular, vol. 404, 1977.
Bradford, David F., and Smith, Christopher C. “Seed Predation and Seed Number in Scheelea Palm Fruits.” Ecology 58, no. 3 (1977): 667-73.
Cartmill, Matt, and Milton, Katherine. “The Lorisiform Wrist Joint and the Evolution of Brachiating Adaptations in the Hominoidea.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 47, no. 2 (1977): 249-72.
Castro, Peter. ““Movements between Coral Colonies in Trapezia ferruginea (Crustacea: Brachyura): An Obligate Symbiont of Scleractinian Corals.” Marine Biology 46 (1978): 237-45.
Cooke, Richard. “Recursos Arqueoldégicos. Apendice No. 7.” In “Evaluacion Ambiental y Efectos del Proyecto Hydroeléctrico Fortuna. Informe Final.” Revista Loteria 254-56 (1977): 399-444.
Cooke, Richard, and Camargo, Marcela R. “Coclé y Su Arqueologia: Una Breve Historia Critica.” La Antigua 6, no. 9 (1977): 115-72.
Dawson, C. E. ““A New Western Atlantic Wormfish (Pisces: Microdesmidae).” Copeia 1 (1977): 7-10.
. “Micrognathus vittatus (Kaup): A Junior Synonym of M. crinitus (Jenyns), with Description of the Insular Pipefins, M. tectus, New Species.” Copeia 1 (1978): 13-16.
Dexter, Deborah M. “Natural History of the Pan-American Sand Beach Isopod Excirolana braziliensis (Crustacea: Malacostraca).” Journal of Zoology 183 (1977): 103-9.
Dressler, Robert L. “Dos Polycycnis Nuevas de Sur America.” Orquideologia 12, no. 1 (1977): 3-12.
Eberhard, Mary Jane West. “Temporary Queen in Metapolybia Wasps: Nonreproductive Helpers without Altruism?” Science 200, no. 4340 (1978): 441-43.
Eberhard, William G. “Aggressive Chemical Mimicry by a Bolas Spider.” Science 198, no. 4322 (1977): 1173-75.
. “Rectangular Orb Webs of Synotaxus (Aranea: Theridiidae).” Journal of Natural History 11 (1977): 501-7.
Eisner, Thomas; Jones, Tappey H.; Aneshansley, Daniel J.; Tschinkel, Walter R.; Silberglied, Robert E.; and Meinwald, Jerrold. “Chemistry of Defensive Secretions of Bombardier Beetles (Brachinini, Metriini, Ozaenini, Paussini).” Journal of Insect Physiology 23, no. 11-12 (1977): 1383-86.
Eisner, Thomas; Jones, Tappey H.; Hicks, Karen; Silberglied, Robert; and Meinwald, Jerrold. “Quinones and Phenols in the Defensive Secretions of Neotropical Opilionids.” Journal of Chemical Ecology 3 (1977): 321-29.
Feekes, Francisca. “Colony-Specific Song in Cacicus cela (Icteriade: Aves): The Pass-word Hypothesis.” Ardea 65 (1977): 197-202.
360 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 371>>>

Glynn, Peter W. “Coral Growth in Upwelling and Nonupwelling Areas of the Pacific Coast of Panama.” Journal of Marine Research 35, no. 3 (1977): 567-85.
Gorman, George C., and Kim, Y. J. “Genotypic Evolution in the Face of Phenotypic Conservativeness: Abudefduf (Pomacentridae) from the Atlantic and Pacific Sides of Panama.” Copeia 4 (1977): 694-97.
Graham, Jeffrey; Kramer, Donald L.; and Pineda, Elpidio. “Respiration of the Air Breathing Fish Piabucina festae.” Journal of Comparative Physiology 122 (1977): 295-310.
Graham, Jeffrey B.; Rosenblatt, Richard H.; and Gans, Carl. “Vertebrate Air Breathing Arose in Fresh Waters and Not in the Oceans.” Evolution 32, no. 2 (1978): 495-63.
Greene, Harry W.; Burghardt, Gordon M.; Dugan, Beverly A.; and Rand, A. Stanley. “Predation and the Defensive Behavior of Green Iguanas (Reptilia, Lacertilia, Inguanidae).” Journal of Herpetology 12, no. 2 (1978): 169-76.
Griffith, James R., and Bultman, John D. “Fluorinated Naval Coatings.” In Industrial Engineering Chemical Product Research and Development, vol. L7;noyd; 1978:
Guerrero, Stella; Rodriguez, César; and Ayala, Stephen C. “Prevalencia de Hemoparasitos en Lagartijas de la Isla Barro Colorado, Panama.” Biotropica 9, no. 2 (1977); 118-23.
Heck, K. L., and Weinstein, M. P. “Mimetic Relationships between Tropical Burrfishes and Opisthobranches.” Biotropica 10 (1978): 77-78.
Heck, Kenneth L., and Wetstone, Gregory S. “Habitat Complexity and Invertebrate Species Richness and Abundance in Tropical Seagrass Meadows.” Journal of Biogeography 4, no. 2 (1977): 135-42.
Howe, Henry F. “Sex-Ratio Adjustment in the Common Grackle.” Science 198, no. 4318 (1977); 744-46.
Jones, S. E. “Coexistence in Mixed Species of Antwren Flocks.” Oikos 29 (1977): 366-75.
Kennedy, Helen. “An Unusual Flowering Strategy and New Species in Calathea.” Botaniska Notiser 130 (1977): 333-39.
Kramer, D. L. “Terrestrial Groups Spawning of Brycon petrosus (Pisces: Characidae) in Panama.” Copeia 3 (1978): 536-37.
Lasker, Howard Robert. “Patterns of Zooxanthellae Distribution and Polyp Expansion in the Reef Coral Montastrea cavernosa.” In Proceedings, Third International Coral Reef Symposium, Rosensteil School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, pp. 607-13. Miami, Fla.: University of Miami, 1977.
Leigh, Egbert G., Jr. “How Does Selection Reconcile Individual Advantage with the Good of the Group?” In Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 74, no. 10, pp. 4542-47, 1977.
Linares, Olga. “Ecology and the Arts in Ancient Panama: On the Development of Social Rank and Symbolism in the Central Provinces.” In Studies in PreColumbian Art and Archaeology, vol. 17, 1977.
MacIntyre, Ian G. “Distribution of Submarine Cements in a Modern Carribbean Fringing Reef, Galeta Point, Panama.” Journal of Sedimentary Petrology 47, no. 2 (1977): 503-16.
MacMillan, Calvin. “Morphogeographic Variation under Controlled Conditions in Five Seagrasses, Thalassia testudinum, Halodule wrightil, Syringodium filiforme, Halophila engelmannii, and Zostera marina.” Aquatic Botany 4 (1978): 169-89.
MacPhail, J. D. “A Possible Function of the Caudal Spot in Characid Fishes.” Canadian Journal of Zoology 55, no. 7 (1977): 1063-66.
May, Michael L. “Thermoregulation and Reproductive Activity in Tropical Dragonflies of the Genus Micrathyria.” Ecology 58, no. 4 (1977): 787-98.
Milton, Katherine. “Role of the Upper Canine and P* in Increasing the Har-
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 361

<<<Page: 372>>>

vesting Efficiency of Hapalemur griseus Link.” Journal of Mammology 59,
no. 1 (1978).
. “The Quality of Diet as a Possible Limiting Factor.” In Proceedings of the Sixth Congress of the International Primatological Society, pp. 387-89, 1978.
Milton, Katherine, and Mittermeir, Russell A. “A Brief Survey of the Primates of Coiba Island, Panama.” Primates 18, no. 4 (1977): 931-36.
Montgomery, G. Gene, and Lubin, Yael D. “Prey Influences on Movements of Neotropical Anteaters.” In Proceedings of the 1975 Predator Symposium, pp. 104-31, 1977.
Moynihan, Martin H., and Rodaniche, Arcadio F. “Communication, Crypsis, and Mimicry among Cephalods.” In How Animals Communicate, edited by T. Sebeok, pp. 293-302. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1977.
Oppenheimer, J. R. “Forest Structure and Its Relation of Activity of the Capuchin Monkey (Cebus).” In International Symposium Held in New Delhi, India. Use of Non-Human Primates in Biomedical Research, pp. 74-84, 1977.
Perrone, Michael, Jr. “Mate Size and Breeding Success in Monagamous Cichlid Fish.” Environmental Biology of Fishes 3, no. 2 (1978): 193-201.
Rabinowitz, Deborah. “Dispersal Properties of Mangrove Propagules.” Biotropica 10, no. 1 (1978): 47-57.
Rasweiler, John J., 1v. “Preimplantation Development: Fate of the Zona Pellucida, and Observations on the Glycogen-Rich Oviduct of the Little Bulldog Bat Noctilio albiventris.’” American Journal of Anatomy 150, no. 2 (1977): 269-99.
Ricklefs, Robert E. “Reactions of Some Panamanian Birds to Human Intrusion at the Nest.” Condor 79, no. 3 (1977): 376-79.
Robertson, D. Ross, and Hoffman, Steven G. “The Roles of Female Mate Choice and Predation in the Mating Systems of Some Tropical Labroid Fishes.” Zeitschrift fiir Tierpsychologie 45 (1977): 298-320.
Robertson, D. Ross, and Warner, Robert R. Sexual Patterns in the Labroid Fishes of the Western Caribbean, 11: The Parrotfishes (Scaridae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 225. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Robinson, Barbara, and Robinson, Michael H. “Developmental Studies of Argiope argentata (Fabricius) and Argiope aemula (Walckenaer).” In Symposium of the Zoological Society of London, vol. 42, pp. 31-40.
Robinson, Michael H. “Symbioses between Insects and Spiders: An Association between Lepidopteran Larvae and the Social Spider Anelosimus eximius (Aranea: Theridiidae).” Psyche 83, nos. 3—4 (1977): 225-32.
. “Tropical Spiders.” New Scientist 76, no. 1080 (1977): 552-54.
Robinson, Michael, H.; and Robinson, Barbara. “The Evolution of Courtship Systems in Tropical Araneid Spiders.” In Symposium of the Zoological Society of London, vol. 42, pp. 17-29.
“Associations between Flies and Spiders: Bibiocommensalism and Dipsoparasitism?” Psyche 84, no. 2 (1977): 150-57.
Robinson, Michael H., and Valerio, Carlos E. “Attacks on Large or Heavily Defended Prey by Tropical Salticid Spiders.” Psyche 84, no. 1 (1977): 1-10.
Sebens, Kenneth P. “Autotrophic and Heterotrophic Nutrition of Coral Reef Zoanthids.” In Proceedings, Third International Coral Reef Symposium, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, pp. 397-404. Miami, Fla.: University of Miami, 1977.
Sebens, Kenneth P., and DeRiemer, K. “Diel Cycles of Expansion and Contraction in Coral Reef Anthozoans.” Marine Biology 43, no. 3 (1977): 247-56. }
Silberglied, Robert E. “Communication in the Lepidoptera.” In How Animals Communicate, edited by T. Sebeok. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1977.
Smith, C. C. “Feeding Behaviour and Social Organization in Howling Mon-
362 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 373>>>

keys.” In Primate Ecology: Studies of Feeding and Ranging Behavior in Lemurs, Monkeys, and Apes, pp. 97-126. London: Academic Press, 1977.
Smith, James N. M. “Feeding Rates, Search Paths, and Surveillance for Predators in Great-Tailed Grackle Flocks.” Canadian Journal of Zoology 55, no. 6 (1977): 891-98.
Smythe, Nicholas. The Natural History of the Central American Agouti (Dasyprocta punctata). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 257. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Stearns, S. C. “Interpopulational Differences in Reproductive Traits of Neoheternadria tridentiger (Pisces: Poeciliidae) in Panama.” Copeia 1 (1978): 188-90.
Vermeij, Geerat J., and Veil, John A. “A Latitudinal Pattern in Bivalve Shell Gaping.” Malacologia 17, no. 1 (1978): 57-61.
Warner, Robert R., and Robertson, D. Ross. Sexual Patterns in the Labrid Fishes of the Western Caribbean, 1: The Wrasses (Labriade). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 254. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Weinstein, M. P., and Heck, K. K., Jr. “Comments on the Life and History of Host-Parasite Relationships of Cymothoa excisa (Isopoda, Cymothoidae) and Three Species of Snappers (Lutjanidae) in the Caribbean Sea, Panama.” Fishery Bulletin 75 (1977): 875-77.
Wells, Kentwood. “Territoriality and Male Mating Success in the Green Frog (Rana damitans).” Ecology 58 (1977) : 75-62.
. “The Courtship of Frogs.” In Reproductive Biology of Amphibians,
pp. 233-62, 1977.
. “The Social Behaviour of Anuran Amphibians.” Animal Behaviour 25, no. 3 (1977): 666-93.
Wilder, George J. “Structure and Symmetry of Species of the Asplundia Group (Cyclanthaceae) Having Sympodial Vegetative Axes: Evodianthus funifer and Carludovia palmata.” Botanical Gazette 138, no. 2 (1977): 219-35.
Windsor, Donald M., ed. Environmental Monitoring and Baseline Data: Tropical Studies. Compiled under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Environmental Sciences: Program, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DIG. 1977.
Wolda, H. “Fluctuations in Abundance of Some Homoptera in a Tropical Forest.” Geo-Eco-Trop 3 (1977): 229-57.
. Seasonal Fluctuations in Rain Fall, Food, and Abundance of Tropical
Insects.” Journal of Animal Ecology 47, no. 2 (1978): 369-81.
. “Stabiliteit en Instabiliteit van Insectenpopulaties in de Tropen.” Contactbland voor Oecologen 13, no. 4 (1977): 70-74.
Wosley, E. K.; Franz, D. R.; and Hendler, G. “Seasonal Patterns of Gametogenesis in a North Atlantic Brooding Asteroid, Leptasterias tenera.” Biological Bulletin 153 (1977): 237-53.
Zaret, Thomas M. “Inhibition of Cannibalism in Cichla ocellaris and Hypothesis of Predatory Mimicry among South American Fishes.” Evolution 31, no. 2 (1977): 421-37.
Zipser, Edith, and Vermeij, Geerat J. “Crushing Behavior of Tropical and Temperate Crabs.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 31 (1978): 155-72.
Archives of American Art. A Checklist of the Collection. 2d rev. ed. Washington, D.C., 1977.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 363

<<<Page: 374>>>

Barrie, Dennis. ““Edris Eckhardt Interviewed.” Link (May 1978).
Brown, Robert. “The Aesthetic Transformation of an Industrial Community.” Winterthur Portfolio 12 (1978).
Karlstrom, Paul. “The Archives of American Art in California.” American Art Review (December 1977).
. Louis Michel Eilshemius. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1978.
. “Louis M. Eilshemius: A Closer Look.” American Art and Antiques (September—October 1978).
McCoy, Garnett. “The Archives of American Art.” ARLIS/NA Newsletter (Summer 1978).
Dee, Elaine Evans. Introduction to The World of Simon Lissim. Washington, D.C.: International Exhibitions Foundation, 1978.
Oliver, Richard B., ed. “Drawing from History.” Journal of Architectural Education (Fall 1978).
. “Place, Product, Packaging.” Architectural Record (February 1978).
. “Voyages of the Imagination: Four Post-Modern Buildings of Bertram Goodhue.” Architectural Record (September 1978).
Sonday, Milton. Western European Embroideries in the Cooper-Hewitt Collection. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
Taylor, Lisa. Foreword to Embroidery through the Ages. Houston: Rice University, 1978.
. Foreword to Immovable Objects: Subways. Cooper-Hewitt Museum,
Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
. Foreword to Cross-Currents: Neoclassical Drawings and Prints from
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum
of Design. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Foreword to Western European Embroideries in the Cooper-Hewitt
Collection. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, Smithsonian Institution,
1978.
. Foreword to Cooper-Hewitt Museum 1978 Benefit Auction. New York:
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
. “Words from the Director.” Cooper-Hewitt Newsletter 1, nos. 1, 2, 3;
and 2, no. 1 (1977-78).
Atil, Esin. “The Glory of the Hunt.” Washington Post, February 1978.
Winter, John. “Authenticity in Art: The Scientific Detection of Forgery, by Stuart J. Fleming.” Studies in Conservation 22 (1977): 45-47.
, ed. “ICOM Reports on Technical Studies in Conservation.” In supplement to Art and Archaeology: Technical Abstracts, vol. 14, no. 2, pp. 372-477. New York: New York University, Institute of Fine Arts, 1977.
Zycherman, Lynda A. “Radiography in the Freer Gallery: New Equipment and New Techniques.” Technology and Conservation 1/78 (Spring 1978): 28-32.
, abstractor. Art and Archaeology: Technical Abstracts, vol. 14, no. 2.
New York: New York University, Institute of Fine Arts, 1977.
Gettings, Frank. George Grosz. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
McCabe, Cynthia Jaffee. “A View of Sculptors in the Hishhorn Museum Collection.” In Modern Sculptors and Their Drawings: Selected Works from
364 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 375>>>

the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Greenville, S.C.: Greenville
County Museum of Art, 1977.
. “George Rickey, by Nan Rosenthal.” Smithsonian 8 (November 1977): 8.
Millard, Charles. “Morris Louis.” Hudson Review (Summer 1977): 253-58.
. “Bosio’s Bust of the Marquis de Lauriston.” Los Angeles County Mu-
seum of Art Bulletin (1977): 22-25.
. “Images of Nature: A Photo-Essay.” In Nature and the Victorian
Imagination, pp. 3-26. Berkeley, 1977.
. “Hans Hoffman.” Hudson Review (Autumn 1977): 404-8.
. “American Style and Quality.” Hudson Review (Spring 1978): 163-69.
. “The Matisse Cut-Outs.” Hudson Review (Summer 1978): 320—27.
Rosenzweig, Phyllis. “American Painting: From the Colonial Period to the Present, by Jules David Prown and Barbara Rose.” Museum News (March/April 1978).
. “Major European Art Movements, 1900-1945, edited by Pa-
tricia Kaplan and Susan Manso.” Museum News (July/August 1978).
. “Frank O’Hara: Poet among Painters, by Marjorie Perloff.” Museum News (January/February 1978).
Weil, Stephen E. “It’s Modern Art and You'll Like It.” In The Smithsonian Experience, pp. 180-83. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
. “Resale Royalties: Nobody Benefits.” Art News (March 1978): 58-62.
Zilczer, Judith. “Primativism and New York Dada.” Arts Magazine 51 (May 1977): 140-42.
. The Noble Buyer: John Quinn, Patron of the Avant-Garde. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. “The Armory Show and the American Avant-Garde: A Reevaluation.”
Arts Magazine 53 (September 1978): 126-30.
Reingold, Nathan. “Democratic Vistas during Starry Nights.” Reviews in American History 6 (1978): 209-13.
. “O, Pioneers!” Wilson Quarterly 2 (1978): 55-64.
. “National Style in the Sciences: The United States Case.” In Human Implications of Scientific Advance (Proceedings of the xvth International
Congress of the History of Science), pp. 163-73.
Cosentino, Andrew J. The Paintings of Charles Bird King (17851862). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
Ewers, John C. Murals in the Round: Painted Tipis of the Kiowa and KiowaApache Indians. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Fink, Lois M., and Taylor, Joshua C. Academy: The Academic Tradition in American Art. Michofiche ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1978.
Moffatt, Frederick C. Arthur Wesley Dow (1857-1922). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
Palmer, Marlene. Training and Development Organizations Directory: A Reference Work Describing Firms, Institutes, and Other Agencies Offering Training Programs for Business, Industry, and Government, Paul Wasserman, managing ed. Detroit: Gale Research Company, 1978.
Taylor, Joshua C. National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 365

<<<Page: 376>>>

Abelson, Alison, “A Bill Wegman Retrospective: Tests, Collisions, and Affinities.” Television 6, no. 2 (Summer 1978).
Bermingham, Peter. Acknowledgments and essay in Contemporary Art from Alaska. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Betsky, Celia. ‘Reconsideration: The Trilogy of Josephine Herbst.” New Republic (July 8, and 15, 1978).
. “American Literary Painting during the Late Nineteenth Century.”
American Art Review (Fall 1978).
. “Players, by Don DeLillo.” New Leader (January 2, 1978).
. “Let Them Speak for Themselves: Women in the American
West, 1849-1900, by Christiane Fischer.” Smithsonian 8, no. 11 (February
1978).
. “Beginnings of Sisterhood: The American Women’s Rights
Movement, 1800-1850, by Keith E. Melder.” Smithsonian 8, no. 11 (Feb-
ruary 1978).
. “Rembrandt’s House, by Anthony Bailey.” Smithsonian 9,
no. 2 (May 1978).
. “American Painting: From the Colonial Period to the Pres-
ent, by Jules David Prown and Barbara Rose.” Art in America (May-June
1978).
. “Art America, by Mary Ann Tighe and Elizabeth E. Lang.”
Art in America (May-June 1978).
. “American Realists, Homer to Hopper, by Mahonri Sharp
Young.” Art in America (May-June 1978).
. “The Life, Manners, and Travels of Fanny Trollope: A Bi-
ography, by Johanna Johnston.” Smithsonian 9, no. 6 (September 1978).
. “Rediscovered Fiction by American Women: A Personal
Selection, edited by Elizabeth Hardwick.” Washington Review of the Arts
(Fall 1978).
. “Going after Cacciato, by Tim O’Brien.” Commonweal (Fall 1978).
Breeskin, Adelyn D. Essay in Paintings of Sarah Baker at the Phillips Collection. Washington, D.C.: The Phillips Collection, 1977.
. Essay in Mary Cassatt: Pastels and Color Prints. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Essay in Attilio Salemme: Inhabitant of a Dream. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Fink, Lois. “The Child as the Image of Innocence in Nineteenth-Century Art.” Nineteenth Century 3, no. 4 (Winter 1977).
. “The Theory of Evolution and Late Nineteenth-Century American
Art.” American Art Review 4, no. 4 (January 1978).
. “French Art in the United States, 1850-1870. Three Dealers and Collectors.” Gazette des beaux-arts 92 (September 1978).
Flint, Janet A. Acknowledgments in Mary Cassatt: Pastels and Color Prints. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Essay in New Ways with Paper. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian In-
stitution Press, 1978.
. “Why Collage? An Interview with the Artist.” In Collages by Irwin Kremen. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Haifley, Julie Link. Chronology in Attilio Salemme: Inhabitant of a Dream. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Hobbs, Susan. “A Connoisseur’s Vision: The American Collection of Charles Lang Freer.” American Art Review 4 (November 1977).
366 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 377>>>

Hormats, Bess. “German War Art.” Washington Post, February 12, 1978.
McClelland, Donald R. Essay in Where Shadows Live: Alice Pike Barney and Her Friends. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Monroe, Michael W. Essay in William Harper: Recent Works in Enamel. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
Rand, Harry. “A Ragamala Painting.” Albright-Knox Gallery Studies (October 1977).
. “Joseph Cornell.” Arts Magazine (December 1977).
“Louisa Mattiasdottir.” Arts Magazine (April 1978).
“Dennis Clive.” Arts Magazine 52, no. 10 (June 1978): 3.
“Cinematics, by Paul Weiss.” Leonardo (Autumn 1977).
“The Scene, by Calvin Tomkins.” Leonardo (Autumn 1978).
“Jim Dine Prints: 1970-77." Choice (March 1978).
Interview in Emphasis Monthly 1, no. 3 (August 1978).
“Entropy.” The Humanist (November—December 1977).
. Untitled statement on poetics in Center 10 (Spring 1978).
Ratzenberger, Katharine M. Introduction to Directory of Art Libraries and Visual Resource Collections in North America, by Judith A. Hoffberg and Stanley W. Hess. New York: Neal-Schuman, 1978.
. “American Sculpture: A Guide to Information Sources, by
Janis Ekdahl.” Choice (May 1978).
. “World Painting Index, by Patricia Havlice.” Choice (July 1978).
Taylor, Joshua C. Foreword to Arthur Wesley Dow (1857-1922). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
. Foreword to Attilio Salemme: Inhabitant of a Dream. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Foreword to Collages by Irwin Kremen. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Foreword to Mary Cassatt: Pastels and Color Prints. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Foreword to The Paintings of Charles Bird King (1785-1862). Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
. Foreword to Where Shadows Live: Alice Pike Barney and Her Friends.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
. Essay in Jacob Kainen. Washington, D.C.: Lunn Gallery, 1978.
. “National Collection and Its Wandering over 149-Year Span.” Smithsonian 9, no. 4 (July 1978).
Walker, William B. “The Development of National and International Cooperation between Art Libraries.” Art Libraries Journal 3, no. 1 (Spring 1978): 9-20.
Fink, Eleanor, comp. The Paintings of Charles Bird King (1785-1862) . In Proceedings of the First International Symposium for the His-
tory of Arabic Science, vol. 1, pp. 641-80. Aleppo, Syria, 1977.
. “Medicine and Pharmacy under the Fatimids.” In Isma’ili Contribu-
tion to Islamic Culture, edited by S. H. Nasr, pp. 141-85. London and
Tehran: Imperial Iranian Academy of Philosophy, 1977.
. “Arabic-Islamic Science and Technology: An Editorial.” Journal for
the History of Arabic Science 1 (1977): 3-7.
. “Arabic Manuscripts of the National Library of Medicine.” Journal
for the History of Arabic Science 1 (1977): 72-180.
. “Challenge of a Journal on Arabic-Islamic Science.” Journal for the
History of Arabic Science 1 (1977): 185-86.
. “Sarton (1884-1956) and the Arabic Islamic Legacy.” Journal for the History of Arabic Science 1 (1977): 299-318.
Hamarneh, Sami K., and Awad, Hemri A. “Early Instruments Excavated in Old Cairo, Egypt.” International Surgery 62 (1967): 520-24.
Harding, Robert S., and Papish, Norma. Walk-Around Needlework: A SelfGuiding Tour of Selected Exhibits in the National Museum of History and Technology, Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
Hindle, Brooke. ““Mechanizing a Nation.” In Visiting Our Past: America’s Historylands, pp. 353-76. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, L977.
. “How Much Is a Piece of the True Cross Worth?” In Material Culture and the Study of American Life, edited by Ian M. G. Quimby, pp. 520. New York, 1978.
Lawless, Benjamin W. “The Smithsonian Style.” In The Smithsonian Experience, pp. 52-59. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
Malone, Alice Reno. “Museum Education and the Handicapped Student.” In Proceedings of the Twenty-third Annual Conference of Mountain-Plains Museums, October 6-8, 1976, Grand Island, Nebraska, vol. 7, pp. 24-27. 1977.
Museums and Handicapped Students: Guidelines for Educators. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
Post, Robert C. American Maritime Enterprise: Checklist, Guide, Acknowledgments. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of History and Technology, 1978.
. Foreword to 1876: A Centennial Offering. Ames: The Iowa State
University Press, 1977.
. “Manuscript Sources for Railroad History.” Railroad History 137
(1977): 38-63.
. “From Pillar to Post: The Plight of the Patent Models.” IA: The Journal of the Society for Industrial Archeology 4 (1978): 58-60.
Sharpe, Elizabeth. A Handicapped Visitor’s Guide to the National Museum of History and Technology. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Department of Cultural History
Ahlborn, Richard E. “Spanish Crafts in the Southwest.” In 1977 Festival of American Folklife, pp. 13-15. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, USI. :
Fesperman, John. “The Beginning of Mechanical Action Organ Building in the Eastern United States.” In The Tracker Organ Revival in America, pp. 1-9. Berlin: Pape Verlag, 1978.
368 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 378>>>

Harris, Elizabeth M. How Presses Print. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
. Smithsonian Type Revivals No. 1: Tell Text. Privately printed in cooperation with Pat Taylor of The Out of Sorts Pres and Letter Foundery, Larchmont, N.Y., 1978.
Harris, Elizabeth M., and Sisson, Clinton. The Common Press. 2 volumes. Boston: David R. Godine, 1978.
Harris, Karyn Jean. “Perishable: Handle with Care.” Museum News 56, no. 2 (1977): 43-45.
Hoover, Cynthia Adams. “Music of the Federal Era: The Instruments and Performance Practices.” In Music of the Federal Period. New World Records, no. 299, 1978.
Marzio, Peter C. Cut on Wood: The Art of Woodengraving in America. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. “Changes: The Natural Groupings of Steven Barbash.” In Steven Barbash: The Limits of Control. Binghamton: The State University of New York, 1977.
Odell, Scott, and Germann, Sheridan. ” ‘Pleasing to Eye and Ear’: The Jean Mari Dedeban Harpsichord of 1770.” In The William A. Clark Collection, pp. 96-104. Washington, D.C.: Corcoran Gallery of Art, 1978.
Scheele, Carl H. “Smithsonian Workshop on Theory and Practice of Museum Interpretation.” In Roundtable Reports (Winter 1978): 1-3.
Scheele, Carl H., and Raymond, John. Introduction to and discography for Ziegfeld Follies of 1919. Division of Performing Arts, Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
Department of National History
Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira E. “Amerikai egyesiilt allamok .” In L’exposition internationale de la médaille du xvii" congres de la FIDEM a Budapest, 1977. Budapest, 1977.
. Dimitri Ferentinos and His Art. Athens, 1977.
Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira E., and Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. Miinzen der Neuzeit. Die Welt der Miinzen, vol. 5. Munich: Battenberg, and Fribourg, Switzerland: Office du Livre, 1978.
Collins, Herbert R. “Poster Art in World War I.” In War against Freedom, pp. 10-12. Washington, D.C.: National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1978.
Klapthor, Margaret B. Foreword to “Behind the Scene”: The Story of the Founding Women of Colonial Maryland. Southern Maryland Society of the Colonial Dames, 1978.
Lundeberg, Philip K. “Microcosm of Revolution: The Continental Gondola Philadelphia.” Bulletin of the American Society of Arms Collectors 57 (1978): 43-51.
. “The Monitor: Fragile Survivor.” In The Monitor: Its Meaning and Future. Washington, D.C.: National Trust for Historic Preservation, 1978.
Mayo, Edith P. “The Council of 1888.” In Women on the Move. Reprint ed. Houston Conference Program, 1977.
. “Ladies and Liberation: Icon and Iconoclast in the Women’s Move-
ment.” In Icons of America, pp. 209-27. Bowling Green, Ohio: Popular
Press, 1978.
. Women in Politics. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
Newman, Lowell S., and Turner, Craig J. “New at the Smithsonian.” S.P.A.  Journal 40, no. 8 (1977): 527-32.
Turner, Craig J. “Charles F. Steel—Superintendent of the Manufacture of United States Postage Stamps.” S.P.A.  Journal 40, no. 3 (1977): 161-67; no. 4 (1977): 239-48; no. 5 (1978): 31524; no. 6 (1978): 395-403.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 369

<<<Page: 379>>>

Department of the History of Science
Cannon, Susan F. Science in Culture: The Early Victorian Period. New York: Science History Publications, and Folkestone, England: Wm. Dawson & Sons, 1978.
Davis, Audrey B. “Thomas Louis Jerome Auzoux and the Papier Mache Anatomical Model.” In Proceedings of the First International Congress: Wax Modelling in Science and Art, pp. 257-79, 1977.
. “Historical Studies of Medical Instruments.” History of Science 16 (May 1978): 107-33.
Eklund, Jon B. “Art Opens the Way for Science.” Chemical and Engineering News 56, no. 23 (1978): 24-32.
Merzbach, Uta C. Georg Scheutz and the First Printing Calculator. Smithsonian Contributions to History and Technology, no. 36. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.
“Concerning Preservation of Mathematical Materials.” Newsletter, Conference Board of the Mathematical Sciences 13, no. 3 (1978): 33-35. Multhauf, Robert P. Neptune’s Gift: A History of Common Salt. Baltimore:
The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1978.
Warner, Deborah J. “Science Education for Women in Antebellum America.”
Isis 69 (1978): 58-67.
Department of the History of Technology
Adrosko, Rita J. “Comments on the Artist’s Technique.” In Annette Kaplan, Tapestries. Washington, D.C.: The Phillips Collection, 1978.
. “Polish Textile Art.” Quarterly Review of Polish Heritage 30 (1978): 1, 5-6.
Berkebile, Don H. Carriage Terminology: An Historical Dictionary. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press and Liberty Cap Books, 1978.
Bowman, Doris. “William A. Clark, Lace Collector.” In The William A. Clark Collection, pp. 87-90. Washington, D.C.: Corcoran Gallery of Art, 1978.
Haberstich, David E. “Reflections on the ‘Exactly Repeatable’ Visual Statement.” In The White House News Photographers’ Best, pp. 55-56. Washington, D.C.: Acropolis Books, Ltd., 1977.
Ostroff, Eugene. “Saving Nitrate Negatives.” Museum News (1978).
. “The Calotype and the Photographer.” Journal of Photographic Science 25 (1978): 83-88.
Schlebecker, John T. “Farmers and Bureaucrats: Reflections on Technological Innovation in Agriculture.” In Agricultural History, vol 50, pp. 641-55, 1977.
. “The Occupation of the Great Plains, 1897-1960.” In Modernized Agricultural Enterprise in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries, pp. 41118. Edinburgh: International Economic History Association, 1978.
Sharrer, G. Terry. “Agricultural Museums in Developing Countries.” In Annual Proceedings of the Association for Living Historical Farms and Agricultural Museums, pp. 5-11. Washington, D.C., 1978.
—. “The Search for Naval Policy.” In Peace and War, pp. 26-45. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1978.
Vogel, Robert M. “Industrial Archeology in the United States—The Two Years since FICCIM.” In Transactions of the Second International Congress on the Conservation of Industrial Monuments, pp. 13-36. Bochum, Germany, 1978.
. “Industrial Preservation—The Techniques.” In Transactions of the
Third International Congress on the Conservation of Industrial Monuments,
pp. 1-20. Stockholm, 1978.
. “Stone Rails along the Patapsco.” IA: The Journal of the Society for Industrial Archeology 4 (1978): 1-14.
Vogel, Robert M., and Newell, Dianne. “Industrial Archeology: A North American Report.” In Transactions of the Third International Congress on the Conservation of Industrial Monuments, pp. 91-108. Stockholm, 1978.
370 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 380>>>

White, John H., Jr. The American Railroad Passenger Car. Baltimore and London: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1978.
. “Tracks and Timber.” IA: The Journal of the Society for Industrial
Archeology 2 (1978): 25-46.
. “Winans Invented the Eight Wheel Car, True False, Pullman Invented
the Sleeping Car, True False, Westinghouse Invented the Air Brakes, True
False.” Trains 39 (1978): 44-48.
. “Railroad Car Builders of the United States.” Railroad History 138
(1978): 5-29.
. “George P. Kimball: A Pacific Coast Car Builder.” Railroad History
138 (1978): 78-84.
. “An End to Pot Boilers.” Trains (1978): 66.
White, John H., Jr., and Vogel, Robert M. “Stone Rails along the Patapsco.” IA: The Journal of the Society for Industrial Archeology 4 (1978): 15-25.
Appel, Toby. “The Spirit of System. Lamarck and Evolutionary Biology, by Richard W. Burckhardt, Jr.” Isis (June 1978).
Christman, Margaret C. S. Fifty American Faces from the Collection of the National Portrait Gallery. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Fabian, Monroe H. The Pennsylvania-German Decorated Chest. Clinton, N.J.: The Main Street Press, 1978.
. “Sulfur Inlay in Pennsylvania-German Furniture.” Pennsylvania Folk-
life (Fall 1977).
. “The Pennsylvania-German Decorated Chest.” Magazine Antiques (May 1978).
Henderson, Amy. “Images of the Ohio Valley, by John Jakle.” Filson Club Quarterly (Fall 1978).
Lawson, Michael L. “Omaha: A City in Ferment: The Summer of 1919.” Nebraska History (Fall 1977).
. “How the Bureau of Indian Affairs Discourages Historical Research.”
Indian Historian (Fall 1977).
. “Alternative to Extinction: Federal Indian Policy and the
Beginnings of the Reservation System, 1846-51, by Robert A. Trennert, Jr.”
Nevada State Historical Society Quarterly (Spring 1978).
. “Hamlin Garland’s Observations on the American Indian, 1895-1905, by Lonnie Underhill and Daniel Littlefield.” Arizona and the West (Autumn 1978).
Miles, Ellen. “The Portraits of John Marshall, by Andrew Oliver.” Magazine Antiques (March 1978).
Miller, Lillian B., ed. Charles Fenderich: Lithographer of American Statesmen. Text-fiche ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1978.
. “The Virginia Journals of Benjamin Henry Latrobe, 17951798, edited by Edward C. Carter 11.” Smithsonian (July 1978).
Pachter, Marc, and Henderson, Amy E. Biographical entries in Jo Davidson Portrait Sculptures. Washington, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery, 1978. Pfister, Harold Francis. Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguer-
reotypes. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Sadik, Marvin S. Foreword to Fifty American Faces from the Collection of the National Portrait Gallery. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. Introduction to Jo Davidson Portrait Sculptures. Washington, D.C.:
National Portrait Gallery, 1978.
. Foreword to Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreo-
types. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
. “A Singular Acquisition.” In The Smithsonian Experience. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 371

<<<Page: 381>>>

Office of American Studies
Washburn, Wilcomb E. “Footholds in a New World.” In Visiting Our Past: America’s Historylands, pp. 13-31. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1977.
. “A Contribuigao da Marinha Brasileira para a Exposicao Universal de
1876 em Filadélfia.” Navigator: Subidios para a Historia Maritima do Brasil
13 (June 1976—December 1977).
. Journal 67, no. 7 (June 1978): 42-52.
Folklife Program
Byington, Robert, ed. Working Americans: Contemporary Approaches to Occupational Folklife. Smithsonian Folklife Series, no. 3.
Kalcik, Susan. “The Festival as Community.” In 1978 Festival of American Folklife. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
Kalcik, Susan, and Gonzalez, Alicia. ““Mexican-American Crafts and Household Arts.” In 1978 Festival of American Folklife. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
Rinzler, Kate, ed. Series of guides for teachers .
. “A History of Ojibwa Song Forms.” Selected Reports of the Institute
of Enthnomusicology (Spring 1978).
. “Chippewa” and “Songs of the Chippewa.” Ethno-
musicology (Spring 1978).
. “Ojibwa Origin-Migration Songs of the Mitewiwin.” Journal of Amer-
ican Folklore (Summer 1978).
. “Tolowa and York Music.” Ethnomusicology (1978).
Zeitlin, Steven. “Good Stories from Hard Times.” In 1978 Festival of American Folklife. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.
D.C. Art Association: Exhibition ’78. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
372 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 382>>>

Hutchinson, Louise Daniel. The Anacostia Story: 1608-1930. Reprint ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
A Lecture on Our National Capital by Frederick Douglass. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Phil Ratner’s Washington. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Morris, James R. . Washington Post, June 11, 1978.
Williams, Martin. “Helen Morgan and the Blues.” Films in Review (January 1978).
. 79, no. 4 (May 1978).
Harney, Thomas, and Sherwood, John. The Magnificent Foragers. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978. The Smithsonian Experience. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 373

<<<Page: 383>>>

Alin, Michael C., and Solinger, Janet W. “Cultural Resources as Part of the Community Life-Long Learning System” . Read into the Congressional Record, March 1978.
Solinger, Janet W., contributing ed. and author. Handbook of Standard Terminology for Describing and Classifying the Learning Activities of Adults. Boulder, Colo.: National Center for Educational Statistics, National Center for Higher Education Management Systems, 1978.
Angst, Walter. “The Case for Scientific Furniture Conservation.” Museum News 56, no. 6 (July/August 1978).
Goodwin, Jack. “Cyrus Adler.” In Dictionary of American Library Biography, pp. 3-5. Littleton, Colo.: Libraries Unlimited, 1978.
. “Current Bibliography in -the History of Technology.” Technology
and Culture 19 (April 1978): 286-356.
. “The Uses of Languages and the Study of Linguistics at the Smithsonian.” Federal Linguist 8, nos. 3-4 (1978): 4-9.
Scott, Catherine D. “Aerospace and Science-Fiction Reference Books, 197778.” In Specialists’ Choice. Washington, D.C.: District of Columbia Library Association, Reference Book Roundup, 1978.
. ‘Scott Directed Library Switch,” by Kathleen Brooks.
Smithsonian Torch (March 1978).
Binney, Edwin, 3rd. One Man’s Vision: The Graphic Works of Odilon Redon. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.
Black Women: Achievements against the Odds: Calendar 1978-80. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.
Daum, Noel. Daum: One Hundred Years of Glass and Crystal. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.
Farmer, Jane M. The Image of Urban Optimism. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1977.
. New American Monotypes. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.
. Paper as Medium. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.
Miklos, Pal, and Ernyey, Gyula. Hungarian Art Nouveau. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.
Penney, Charles Rand; Chambers, Bruce W.; and Czestochowski, Joseph S. Charles Burchfield: The Charles Rand Penney Collection. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.
374 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 384>>>

Cuisenier, Jean. French Folk Art. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1977.
Gerson, Sareen. Hungarian Art Nouveau. 1978. SITES Information Brochure. 1978.
Ayres, Linda L., contributor. Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreotypes. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Backlund, Carolyn. Index, 1976-1977, to Smithsonian (Summer 1978).
. “Art Sales—Sources of Information.” ARLIS/NA Newsletter (Summer 1978).
. “Bibliography of Recent Art Reference Books.” In Specialists’ Choice Washington, D.C.: District of Columbia Library Association, Reference Book Roundup, 1978.
Brown, David A. “Italian Paintings in the Walters Art Gallery, by Federico Zeri.” Art Bulletin 60, no. 1 (June 1978): 367-69.
. Letter to the editor, Master Drawings 16, no. 1 (1978): 67-68.
. “A New Book on Correggio” . Burlington Magazine 119, no. 897 (December 1977): 860-
. “Andrea Vanni in the Corcoran Gallery.” In The William A. Clark
Collection, pp. 32-37. Washington, D.C.: Corcoran Gallery of Art, 1978.
. “The London Madonna of the Rocks in Light of Two Milanese Adaptations.” In Collaboration in Italian Renaissance Art (Essays in Memory of Charles Seymour, Jr.), edited by Wendy Stedman Sheard and John T. Paoletti, pp. 16-77. New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 1978.
Carmean, E. A., Jr. “On Five Paintings by Helen Frankenthaler.” Art International 22, no. 4 (April-May 1978).
. “Peter Reginato.” Arts Magazine 52, no. 10 (June 1978).
. The Subjects of the Artist. Washington, D.C.; National Gallery of Art, 1978.
Edelstein, J. M. “Caught in the Web of Words” . New Republic 177, no. 20 (November 12, 1977): 33-34.
. “The Oxford University Press” . New Republic 178, no. 13 (April 1, 1978): 28-30.
Lewis, Douglas. “The Convento della Carita (Corpus Palladianum, vi), by Elena Bassi.” Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians 36, no. 4 (December 1977): 258-59.
. Introduction to John Safer Sculptures. Atlanta: The High Museum of
Art, 1978.
_ “The Clark Copy of Antonio Canova’s Hope Venus.” In The William
A. Clark Collection, pp. 32-37. Washington, D.C.: Corcoran Gallery of Art,
1978.
. “John Safer.” Arts Magazine 52, no. 10 (June 1978): 22.
. “The Washington Relief of Peace and Its Pendant: A Commission of
Alfonso d’Este to Antonio Lombardo in 1512.” In Collaboration in Italian
Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff / 375

<<<Page: 385>>>

Renaissance Art (Essays in Memory of Charles Seymour, Jr.), pp. 233-44. New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 1978.
Powell, Earl A., ut. The James A. Michener Collection: Twentieth-Century American Painting. Austin: The University of Texas at Austin, 1978.
. “Thomas Cole and the American Landscape Tradition: The Naturalist
Controversy.” Arts Magazine 52, no. 6 (February 1978): 114-24.
. “Thomas Cole and the American Landscape Tradition: The Pictur-
esque.” Arts Magazine 52, no. 7 (March 1978): 110-18.
. “Thomas Cole and the American Landscape Tradition: Associationism.” Arts Magazine 52, no. 8 (April 1978): 113-17.
Rathbone, Eliza. The Subjects of the Artist. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1978.
Robison, Andrew. Giovanni Battista Piranesi: The Early Architectural Fantasies. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1978.
. Master Drawings. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1978.
. “Preliminary Drawings for Piranesi’s Early Architectural Fantasies.” Master Drawings 14, no. 4 (1977): 387-401.
Wheelock, Arthur K., Jr. “A Reappraisal of Gerard Dou’s Reputation.” In The William A. Clark Collection, pp. 60-66. Washington, D.C.: Corcoran Gallery of Art, 1978.
. “An Introduction to Rembrandt, by Kenneth Clark, and Rembrandt's House, by Anthony Bailey.” Washington Post, July 1978.
Wilmerding, John. “Harvard and American Art.” Apollo 107, no. 196 (June 1978): 490-95.
. Painting in America. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Information Agency,
1977.
376 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 386>>>

APPENDIX 6. Academic Appointments in Fiscal Year 1978
Smithsonian Fellows pursue research problems in Smithsonian facilities and collections in collaboration with professional staff members.
Program in American and Cultural History
Gerald F. Linderman, Ph.D., Northwestern University. Memory of war, the reshaping of the Civil War experience, with Forrest C. Pogue, Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Program in Anthropology
Kathryn Ann Klar, Ph.D., University of California in Berkeley. Southern California Indian languages particularly Chumash, using the manuscripts of John P. Harrington, with R. H. Ives Goddard III and William C. Sturtevant, Department of Anthropology, from October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978.
Ray A. Williamson, Ph.D., University of Maryland. The astronomical record of the prehistoric Pueblo Indian, with Waldo Wedel, Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Program in Astrophysics
Bruce T. Draine, Ph.D., Cornell University. Study of the interstellar medium, with Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Wendy Anne Hagen, Ph.D., University of Hawaii. Optical and infrared observations of stellar maser sources, with H. Gursky, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
John Huchra, Ph.D., California Institute of Technology. Basic research in the field of extragalactic astronomy and studies of the stellar populations and space distributions of galaxies, with H. Gursky, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 20, 1977, through September 20, 1978.
Alan M. Levine, Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Research in X-ray astronomy, with Riccardo Giacconi, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through June 30, 1978.
Program in Earth Sciences
Christopher J. Hatton, Ph.D., University of Cape Town, South Africa. Study of igneous processes relevant to the relation of peridotites and eclogites and geochemistry and geographical relation of diamondiferous eclogites, with Brian H. Mason, Department of Mineral Sciences, from March 1, 1978, through February 28, 1979.
Appendix 6. Academic Appointments / 377

<<<Page: 387>>>

Michael P. Ryan, Ph.D., Pennsylvania State University. Mechanics and thermal structures of near-surface magma reservoirs of Kilauea and Mauna Loa volcanoes in Hawaii, with Richard S. Fiske, Department of Mineral Sciences, from December 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Program in Environmental Sciences
Theodore M. DeJong, Ph.D., University of California at Davis. Ecophysiological aspects of distribution and productivity of three dominant plant species within Kirkpatrick Marsh, with Bert G. Drake, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from January 1, 1978, through December 31, 1978. ©
David W. Hopkins, Ph.D., University of California at San Diego, EppleySmithsonian Fellow. Analysis of solar radiation and study of effects of elevated levels on plant growth, with William H. Klein, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from August 1, 1977, through July 31, 1978.
John F. Pilger, Ph.D., University of Southern California. Systematics, reproduction, and distribution of Themiste on the east coast of North America, with Mary E. Rice, Fort Pierce Bureau, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Edward E. Ruppert, Ph.D., University of North Carolina. Structural and ultrastructural features of turbellarian larvae during metamorphosis and comparative ultrastructure of myoepithelial pharynges of lower metazoa, with Mary E. Rice, Fort Pierce Bureau, from October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978.
Osamu Tanaka, Ph.D., Kyoto University, Japan. Study of the physiology of flowering in Lemna, with Charles Cleland, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Richard H. Yahner, Ph.D., Ohio University. Auditory communication in muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi), with Christen Wemmer, National Zoological Park Conservation and Research Center, from July 1, 1977, through May 31, 1978.
Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology
Sankar Chatterjee, Ph.D., University of Calcutta, India. Study of North American Mesozoic vertebrates and comparison with Indian Gondwana vertebrates, with Nicholas Hotton III, Department of Paleobiology, from May 1, 1977, through April 30, 1978.
G. David Johnson, Ph.D., Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Systematics and functional morphology of the Perciformes fishes, with Victor Springer, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from September 15, 1977, through September 14, 1978.
Brian F. Kensley, Ph.D., University of Cape Town, South Africa. Taxonomic revision of the Isopoda Anthuridea, with Thomas Bowman, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from July 1, 1977, through June 30, 1978.
James A. Lackey, Ph.D., Iowa State University. Taxonomic study of American Phaseolinae, with Richard Cowan, Department of Botany, from June 1, 1977, through May 31, 1978.
Charles W. Mitter, Ph.D., State University of New York at Stony Brook. Evolution of feeding habits in Catocala, the underwing moths, with John M. Burns, Department of Entomology, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
378 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 388>>>

Peter W. Skelton, Ph.D., Oxford University, England. Paleobiological interpretations of New World rudists, with Norman F. Sohl and Thomas R. Waller, Department of Paleobiology, from October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978.
Program in the History of Art
Roger B. Stein, Ph.D., Harvard University. American art of the period 18601910, clarifying and redefining the interdisciplinary analysis of the arts in American culture, with Lois M. Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Program in the History of Science and Technology
Bettina E. Berch, Ph.D., University of Wisconsin. The impact of technological change on the household: American homes at the turn of the century, with G. Terry Sharrer, Department of Industries, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Robert M. Friedman, Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University. Investigations on the development of aviation and the rise of well-organized meteorological science, with Richard P. Hallion, National Air and Space Museum, from August 15, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Program in Tropical Biology
Henry F. Howe, Ph.D., University of Michigan. Studies of plant fecundity and seed dispersal by birds, with Neal G. Smith and Nicholas Smythe, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1977, through August SL, 1978:
David P. Janos, Ph.D., University of Michigan. The synecology of vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizae, with Nicholas Smythe, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1977, through February 28, 1979.
Katharine V. Milton, Ph.D., New York University. Nutrition, reproductive patterns, and population-regulating mechanisms in the howler monkey (Alouatta palliata), with Egbert G. Leigh, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from June 15, 1977, through June 14, 1979.
Friedrich-Wilhelm Vollrath, Ph.D., Albert Ludwigs University. Ecology and behavior of the social spider Anelosimus, with Michael H. Robinson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from December 1, 1977, through November 30, 1978.
Program in Anthropology
Susan A. Kaplan, Ph.D. candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Technological and functional studies of bone implements from the Arctic, with Dennis Stanford, Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Stephen R. Potter, Ph.D. candidate, University of North Carolina. Late woodland manifestations in the lower Potomac and Rappahannock River valleys and the foundations for historic chiefdoms, with Clifford Evans, Jr., Department of Anthropology, from January 1, 1978, through December 31, 1978.
Appendix 6. Academic Appointments / 379

<<<Page: 389>>>

Program in Astrophysics
John C. Brasunas, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Construction of a Fourier transform spectrometer and near and far infrared spectroscopy of gaseous nebulae, with Wesley Traub, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Scott E. Butler, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Charge exchange calculations and radiative and collisional processes, with Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through May 31, 1978.
Jules P. Halpern, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Imaging studies of soft X-ray objects, with Riccardo Giacconi, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through May 31, 1978.
Paul L. Hertz, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Work in high energy astrophysics, with Alan Lightman, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through May 31, 1978.
Ira Wasserman, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Problems in the origins of galaxies, angular momentum, and magnetic fields, with George Field, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1977, through May 31, 1978.
Program in Cultural History
Nancy J. Groce, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. A study of hammered dulcimers, their history and use in America, with J. Scott Odell, Department of Cultural History, from June 1, 1977, through May 31, 1978.
Program in Environmental Sciences
Peter V. August, Ph.D. candidate, Texas Technical University. Population ecology of a tropical small-mammal community, with John F. Eisenberg, National Zoological Park, from July 1, 1977, through June 30, 1978.
Hemanta R. Mishra, Ph.D. candidate, University of Edinburgh. Population distribution and behavior of chital in the Royal Chitwan National Park in Nepal with reference to population and distribution of the tiger, with Drs. Theodore H. Reed and Christen M. Wemmer, National Zoological Park, from February 1, 1978, through January 31, 1979.
Margaret A. O’Connell, Ph.D. candidate, Texas Technical University. Population ecology of neotropical rodents, with John F. Eisenberg, National Zoological Park, from June 15, 1977, through December 15, 1977.
J. L. David Smith, Ph.D. candidate, University of Minnesota. Study of tiger dispersal in Chitwan National Park in relation to other aspects of social organization, with Christen Wemmer, National Zoological Park, from August 1, 1977, through January 31, 1979.
Rebecca Gay Troth, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. Field research on the problem of community distribution and dynamics of Bombax ceiba and its survival tactics, with Dan Nicholson, National Herbarium, Museum of Natural History, from August 1, 1977, through July 31, 1978.
Kotaro Yamamoto, D.Sc. candidate, University of Tokyo. Study on the photoreversible binding in vitro of purified phytochrome to particulate fractions isolated from pea epicotyls, with William Smith, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
380 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 390>>>

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology
Katherine M. Muzik, Ph.D. candidate, University of Miami. Systematics of Hawaiian Octocorallia, with Frederick Bayer, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Susan M. F. Peters, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pittsburgh. Systematic revision of the Platyrrhini, with Richard Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from September 15, 1977, through September 14, 1978.
Alan H. Savitsky, Ph.D. candidate, University of Kansas. The intergeneric relationships of xenodontine snakes, with George Zug, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from July 1, 1977, through June 30, 1978.
Program in the History of Art
Jeremy E. Adamson, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. American paintings of Niagara Falls, 1800 to 1880, with Lois M. Fink and William Truettner, National Collection of Fine Arts, from January 1, 1978, through December 31, 1978.
Gerald W. Adelmann, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Study of Jonathan S. McDonald of Lockport, Illinois, with Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies, and Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from January 1, 1978, through December 31, 1978.
Celia Betsky, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Inner spaces, the interior in American art and literature, 1860-1910, with Lois M. Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Michele Bogart, Ph.D. candidate, University of Chicago. The problem of reproduction of works of art in late 19th-century America, with Lois Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Richard J. Campbell, Ph.D. candidate, Brown University. Designs for sculpture, architectural embellishment, and general ornament in the late 18th century, with Elaine Dee, National Museum of Design, Cooper-Hewitt Collection, from October 1, 1977, through March 31, 1978.
H. Nichols B. Clark, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. The impact of Dutch painting on American painting in the first half of the 19th century, with Lois Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Douglas K. Hyland, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Study of Lorenzo Bartolini and American sculpture, 1825-1850, with Lois Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Melvin P. Lader, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Program for museum training for advanced students of art history, with Patricia Chieffo, National Collection of Fine Arts, from October 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
M. Shreve Simpson, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. The illustration of an epic, three Shah-Nameh manuscripts of the early 14th century, with Esin Atil, Freer Gallery of Art, from July 1, 1977, through June 30, 1978.
Kendall F. Taylor, Ph.D. candidate, Syracuse University. Study of Philip Evergood and the humanist tradition and an iconographic study of his social commentary, with Abram Lerner, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from May 15, 1977, through May 14, 1978.
Bruce E. Weber, Ph.D. candidate, City University of New York. A study of Robert Frederick Blum, 1857-1903, and his milieu, with Lois Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from November 1, 1977, through October 31, 1978.
Appendix 6. Academic Appointments / 381

<<<Page: 391>>>

Program in the History of Science and Technology
George M. Danko, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pennsylvania. The evolution of the simple truss bridge in America, 1820-1940, with Robert Vogel, Department of Science and Technology, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Richard F. Hirsh, Ph.D. candidate, University of Wisconsin. The history of X-ray astronomy in the 1960’s, with Paul A. Hanle, National Air and Space Museum, from October 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Anne M. Millbrooke, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pennsylvania. State geological surveys of the 19th century, with Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from September 1, 1977, through August 31, 1978.
Philip J. Pauly, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. A study of the American experience of Jacques Loeb, with Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from July 1, 1977, through June 30, 1978.
Program in Tropical Biology
Mary E. Power, Ph.D. candidate, University of Washington. Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar. The interaction of loricariids and aufwuchs in Panama streams, with Ross Robertson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from January 1, 1978, through December 31, 1979.
Thane K. Pratt, Ph.D. candidate, Rutgers University. The ecology of fruiteating birds in New Guinea rain forests, with Michael Robinson, Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute, from August 1, 1977, through July 31, 1978.
R. W. Fisher, Professor of Biology, Virginia Commonwealth University. Study to determine the action spectrum for light reversal of ethylene-induced inhibition of spore germination in Onoclea sensibilis, with Walter Shropshire, Jr., Radiation Biology Laboratory, from June 13, 1977, through July 22, 1977.
Charles Harvard Gibbs-Smith, Keeper Emeritus, Victoria and Albert Museum. Study of the Wright brothers and contemporary problems, at the National Air and Space Museum, from January 1, 1978, through December 31, 1978.
Program in Anthropology
Thomas M. Brown, Johns Hopkins University. A study of museum exhibits: anthropology and the public, with William Sturtevant, Department of Anthropology.
Sharon Y. Pruitt, Cornell University. Research and study in the Smithsonian’s African collections, with Gordon Gibson, Department of Anthropology. Mary J. Young, University of Pennsylvania. Analysis of late 19thand early 20th-century Zuni ritual poetry, with Ives Goddard, Department of Anthropology.
382 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 392>>>

Program in Astrophysics
Allan B. Garland, Harvard University. Study of the heating of the intergalactic medium and double radio sources, with George Field, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
Daniel T. Jaffe, Harvard University. Development work on the CFA InSb IR array camera, with G. G. Fazio, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
Paul Shapiro, Harvard University. Theoretical studies of relativistic hydrodynamics, relativistic blast waves, both analytical and computer work and their connection with extragalactic radio sources, with George Field, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
Jan M. Vrtilek, Harvard University. A search for highly excited iron emission lines from supernova remnants and study of the Zeeman effect in hydrogen radio-frequency recombination lines, with Nathaniel Carleton, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
Program in Conservation
Meredith Michelson, University of Delaware, Winterthur Program. Dorothy and Elsie Shaver Scholarship. Study and practice of paper conservation methods and techniques, with Katherine Eirk of the National Collection of Fine Arts Conservation Laboratory.
Jody R. Shiffman, University of Toronto. Modern conservation methods and techniques for archaeology and museology, with Jacqueline Olin, Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
Program in Cultural History
David J. Byrnes, Texas Tech University. Study of the Gerwig collection of hand tools, with Richard Ahlborn and Thomas Tully, Department of Cultural History.
Kenneth P. Eschete, Tulane University. Musical instrument preservation and restoration, with J. Scott Odell, Department of Cultural History.
Jo B. Paoletti, University of Maryland. A comparison of styles offered by Demorest and Butterick pattern companies, 1875-1885, with Claudia Kidwell, Department of Cultural History.
Program in Earth Sciences
Pamela J. W. Gore, George Washington University. Petrology and petrography of the Wissahickon diamictite and related metamorphosed inclusion bearing rocks of the Central Appalachian Piedmont, with William G. Melson, Department of Mineral Sciences.
Janet Zilczer, George Washington University. The orthoclase problem, symmetry transformation and Al/Si ordering in natural potassium feldspars, with Daniel Appleman, Department of Mineral Sciences.
Program in Environmental Sciences Katherine E. Troyer, University of California at Davis. Comparison of food
preference in normal and lactating captive red pandas, with Olav Oftedal and Miles Roberts, National Zoological Park.
Appendix 6. Academic Appointments / 383

<<<Page: 393>>>

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology
Diana R. Gutierrez, Louisiana State University. Ontogeny, phylogeny, and evolutionary history of the Upper Cretaceous Exogyra costata lineage, with Earle Kauffman and Norman Sohl, Department of Paleobiology.
Lawrence R. Heaney, University of Kansas. Body size of insular mammals from southeast Asia, with Richard Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zoology.
Rebecca F. Surdick-Pifer, University of Utah. Systematic studies of the Nearctic Chloroperlinea, with Oliver Flint, Department of Entomology.
Program in the History of Art
Jeanine Falino, Rhode Island College. Sidney and Celia Siegel Summer Fellow. Research in the 20th-century decorative arts collections, with Christian Rohlfing and Joy Wolf, Decorative Arts Department, Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Elizabeth Ferrer, Wellesley College. Sidney and Celia Siegel Summer Fellow. Development of fall programs for adults and young children, with Jane Clark, Jennifer Jarvis, and Mary Kerr, Programs Department, Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Robert McGlynn, Columbia University. Sidney and Celia Siegel Summer Fellow. Study in the area of exhibits, with Dorothy Globus and Robin Parkinson, Exhibition Department, Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Edith Tonelli, Boston University. Study of the Massachusetts Federal Art Project, with Merry Foresta, National Collection of Fine Arts.
Program in the History of Science and Technology
Susan E. Geib, Boston University. Research and study in the collections of implements relating to husbandry, agricultural storage, and food processing in the U.S., with G. Terry Sharrer, Department of the History of Technology.
Jonathan Liebenau, University of Pennsylvania. A study of German and American medical supply catalogues, 1880-1914, with Audrey Davis and Ramunas Kondratas, Department of History of Science.
Elinor F. Oakes, George Washington University. Dairying in 18th-century America, with John Schlebecker, Department of History of Technology.
David G. Tomas, University of Montreal. The cloud chamber and cloud chamber photography, their implantation, adaptation, and use with particle accelerators, with Paul Forman, Department of History of Science.
Program in Tropical Biology
Deborah K. Hoffmaster, Iowa State University. Comparative defense behaviors in tropical orb-weaving spiders, with Michael Robinson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
Michael Ryan, Cornell University. Social behavior of the red-eyed tree frog, with A. Stanley Rand, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN INTERNS
Judi H. Freeman, Vassar College. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Charles W. Millard.
Ceil Friedman, University of California at Berkeley. Research and study in the Department of Education, with Edward P. Lawson.
384 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 394>>>

Eric Gordon, New York University. Research and study in the Conservation Laboratory, with Laurence M. Hoffman.
Amy Tolins, Philadelphia College of Art. Research and study in the Department of Exhibition and Design, with Joseph M. Shannon.
Reva Wolf, Brandeis University. Research and study in the Office of the Registrar, with Douglas J. Robinson.
Michael Zakian, Columbia University. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Charles W. Millard.
Julie Downing, Rhode Island School of Design. Research and study in the Department of Exhibition and Design, with David B. Keeler.
Shellie Goldberg, University of Michigan. Research and study in the Department of Education, with Peter Bermingham.
Donna Jo Hassler, George Washington University. Research and study in the Office of the Registrar, with William R. Johnston.
Marsha Hudson, George Washington University. Research and study in the Department of 20th-Century Painting and Sculpture, with Harry Z. Rand.
Michael J. Olson, Gallaudet College. Theory and practice of archives administration, with Richard Lytle.
Carolyn P. Davies, Mary Washington College. Research in naval publications on a wide range of topics in U.S. naval history covering the period 18661946, with Philip Lundeberg, Department of National History.
Elizabeth Dryden, George Washington University. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden museum intern assigned to the Department of Exhibits and Design and to the Department of Painting and Sculpture.
Leann Gustafson, Southern Oregon State University. Research on spiritual possession for a report being prepared on the African Diaspora, with Bernice Reagon, Division of Performing Arts.
Louise Harris, Mount Vernon College. Research and study cataloguing specimens, planning an exhibit of late 19th-century rugs, fiber analysis, specimen cleaning and blocking, textile storage, handling, and photography, with Rita Adrosko, Department of the History of Technology.
Nancy Hoerner, Rhode Island School of Design. Photographic and bibliographic research concerning the 1977-78 Concert Season and promotional activities for Festival of American Folklife, with Suzanne Roschwalb, Division of Performing Arts.
Amy Horowitz, University of California at Santa Cruz. Research on the role of women in Black culture using data collected by the African Diaspora program, with Bernice Reagon, Division of Performing Arts.
Sharyn Huriaux, University of Cincinnati. Research and study involving promotional activities for the Winter Concert Series, with Manuel Melendez, Division of Performing Arts.
Appendix 6. Academic Appointments / 385

<<<Page: 395>>>

Sara Hutchinson, George Washington University. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden intern assigned to the Department of Education.
Matthew J. Hyman, University of Massachusetts. Study of American Indian infectious disease, with Donald Ortner, Department of Anthropology.
Roger S. Kohn, Yale University. Analyzing and editing documents and locating information in manuscripts and printed sources, with Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers.
Carmine Mokhiber, Washington and Jefferson College. Research activities and collection management in the Division of Birds and of Vertebrate Paleontology, with Storrs Olson, Department of Vertebrate Zoology.
Scott R. Porter, San Jose State University. Archival research and study involving the Festival of American Folklife, with Frank Proschan, Division of Performing Arts.
Daniel Preston, Evergreen State College. Research in printed and manuscript material used to develop annotations for the Henry Papers, with Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers.
Kay D. Robinson, Carroll College. Research and study involving museum public relations, with Geraldine Sanderson, Museum of History and Technology, Office of Public Affairs and Special Events.
Elizabeth Schmidt, Oberlin College. Research and study involving both printed and manuscript materials, transcribing foreign language manuscripts, and entering manuscripts into computer catalog, with Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers.
Kathryn Shanks, National Cathedral School. Research and study involving museum publicity and public relations, with Manuel Melendez, Division of Performing Arts.
Frances E. Silcox, University of San Francisco. Study of operations and problems involved in information relation and working within a museum framework, with Suzanne Roschwalb, Division of Performing Arts.
Terry D. Smith, The George Washington University. Study involving general promotional activities attempting to promote public awareness of portraiture, with Suzanne Roschwalb, National Portrait Gallery.
Ann E, Steele, University of Delaware. Practical museum experience including registration, cataloguing, cleaning and restoring collections, and research on women in business using Warshaw papers, with Carl Scheele, Department of Cultural History.
Jennifer Weedon, Mount Vernon College. Study in all areas of planning and production of the Folklife Festival including work with design and layout of prefestival publications, with Betty Beuck, Festival of American Folklife.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS PREDOCTORAL FELLOWS Ruth Bohan, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Katherine S. Dreier and the Société Anonyme.
Betsy Fahlman, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Guy Pene du Bois.
George Gurney, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. The Sculpture of Olin Levi Warner.
Mitchell Kahan, Ph.D. candidate, City University of New York. Subjective Trends in American Art of the 1930s; Surrealism and Magic Realism.
386 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 396>>>

Miranda McClintic, Ph.D. candidate, Institute of Fine Arts, New York University. The Paintings of David Smith.
Lydia Pena, Ph.D. candidate, Loretto Heights College, Denver, Colorado. Agnes Tait in the 1930s and 1940s.
Julie Schimmel, Ph.D. candidate, New York University. Westward the Course of Empire: The Rise and Progress of John Mix Stanley.
Gilbert Vincent, Ph.D., candidate, University of Delaware. Artistic Perceptions of Eighteenth Century America from 1870 to 1920.
David Atkins, Harvard University. Chemistry of Air-Water Interface, Dr. Tung Lin Wu.
Deborah A. Banning, Princeton University. Chemistry of Air-Water Interface, Dr. Tung Lin Wu.
William Carmen, Humboldt State University. Large Mammal Study, Dr. James Lynch.
Arlene Chandler, Emma Willard School. Upland Plant Ecology, Dr. Dennis Whigham.
Deborah Clark, University of Vermont. Outdoor Environmental Education Curriculum Development, Dr. John Falk.
Judith Dickinson, Cook College, Rutgers University. Upland Plant Ecology, Dr. Dennis Whigham.
Thomas Faha, Patterson College. Watershed Project, Dr. David Correll. David Hastings, Princeton University. Air-Water Interface, Dr. Tung Lin Wu.
Rosemary Leen, University of California, Riverside. Estuarine Molluscan Fauna, Robert Cory.
Elizabeth Ley, University of North Carolina. Upland Plant Ecology, Dr. Dennis Whigham.
Elizabeth Lyons, Radcliffe College, Harvard University. Psychological Effects of Outdoor Experiences, Dr. John Balling.
Jack Markin, University of Michigan. Estuarine Animal Ecology, Joseph Miklas.
Greg Pelletier, Springfield College. Bay Grasses Project, Dr. David Correll. Gary Tabor, McGill University. Estuarine Microbiology, Dr. Maria Faust.
Stephen Vail, Carleton College. Foraging Behavior and Aggressive Interactions of Prenolepsis impanis, Dr. James Lynch.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK APPOINTMENTS Funded by Friends of the National Zoo
Ken Green, Johns Hopkins University. Karl Kranz, George Mason University. Susan Wilson, Open University of London.
INTERNS Jandel T. Allen, Dartmouth College (Office of Animal Health).
Appendix 6. Academic Appointments / 387

<<<Page: 397>>>

Kristin Brugger, University of Maryland (Office of Zoological Research).
Mary Joe Campbell, Indiana University (Office of Graphics and Exhibits).
Lucia de Leiris, University of Maryland (Conservation and Research Center).
Steve Gilliatt, Indiana University (Office of Graphics and Exhibits).
Adam Glick, Oberlin College (Office of Animal Management).
Laura Grady, University of Maryland (Office of Zoological Research).
Suzanne Hodges, Virginia Polytechnic Institute (Office of Education).
Gary Johnston, George Mason University (Conservation and Research Center).
Fred Koontz, University of Maryland (Conservation and Research Center).
Jeffrey M. Kramer, Cornell University (Office of Pathology).
Dale Lytle, William Paterson College (Conservation and Research Center).
Sara S. Mann, George Washington University (Office of Education).
Elizabeth Merritt, Yale University (Office of Zoological Research).
Ranka Sekulis, University of Maryland (Office of Zoological Research).
Lucinda Taft, George Mason University (Office of Zoological Research).
Lynn D. Wiezycki, University of Southern Florida (Office of Animal Management).
Paul Wilson, Michigan State University (Conservation and Research Center).
James Zook, Colorado State University (Office of Animal Management).
Rita Villella, Virginia Polytechnic Institute. Scimitar-horned oryx pasture management, with Dr. Christen Wemmer, Conservation and Research Center, from June 1, 1978, through October 31, 1978.
George Archibald, Ph.D., International Crane Foundation, Baraboo, Wisconsin (Conservation and Research Center).
David Brownstein, D.V.M., Lovelace Foundation, Albuquerque, New Mexico (Office of Pathology).
Beverly Ann Gilroy, D.V.M., University of California, Davis (Office of Animal Health).
James Malcolm, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts (Office of Zoological Research).
Funded by Grants from the National Institutes of Mental Health
Charles Brady, Ph.D. candidate, University of Ohio.
Susan Farabaugh, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. David Mack, University of Illinois.
Ingrid Porton, University of Arizona.
Kathy A. Rozgonyi, William Paterson College. Rasanayagam Rudran, Ph.D., University of Maryland.
Funded by a Grant from the National Science Foundation Wolfgang Dittus, Ph.D., University of Maryland.
The Edward John Noble Foundation
Kathleen Bub, University of Wyoming Richard Cowie, Oxford University Diane De Steven, University of Michigan
388 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 398>>>

Judy Gradwohl, University of California at Berkeley
Elizabeth Mallory, Dartmouth College
David Schneider, State University of New York at Stony Brook Gustaaf VanVliet, University of Michigan
EXXON Corporation
Juan Achurra, Universidad de Panama Ramon Alvarado, Universidad de Panama Rafael Araujo, Universidad de Panama Arsenio Arauz, Universidad de Panama Aramis Averza, Universidad de Panama Juan Barria C., Universidad de Panama Jorge Bricenio, Universidad de Panama Alberto Cabrera, Universidad de Panama Milton Clark, Universidad de Panama Gilberto Gasteazoro, Universidad de Panama Guillermo S. Jules, Universidad de Panama Gustavo Justines, Universidad de Panama Jorge Limongi, Universidad Central de Venezuela Carlos Martin, Universidad de Panama Rodolfo Mendoza, Universidad de Panama Cruciano Montaner, Universidad de Panama Felix Oramas, Universidad de Panama
Vidal A. Peralta, Universidad de Panama Wolfgang Pfizenmaier, Universidad del Valle, Colombia Vielka Quintero, Universidad de Panama Argelis Roman, Universidad de Panama Guadalupe Scott, Universidad de Panama Frank Solis, Universidad de Panama
José Urrutia, Universidad de Panama
Jorge Ventocilla, Universidad de Panama Janzel Villalaz, Universidad de Panama Ricardo Villarreal, Universidad de Panama Octavio Winter, Universidad de Panama
Appendix 6. Academic Appointments / 389

<<<Page: 399>>>

APPENDIX 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1978
As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution has received federal support since it was established in 1864 to carry out the terms of James Smithson’s will. Appropriated funds have long provided important additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subsequent benefactors, to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for research and exhibition of the national collections and maintenance of the valuable objects and records of science, history, and culture entrusted to the Institution.
The Smithsonian’s basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research, acquisition, and educational programs, which are central to the Smithsonian’s present resources and achievements.
The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to the foundations, corporations, and individuals listed below for their gifts, bequests, and contribut-
ing memberships in the Smithsonian Associates.
$100,000 or more:
The Ford Foundation Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Estate of Atherton Seidell James Smithson Society
$10,000 or more:
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
American Can Company
American Commercial Barge Line Company
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Anonymous
The Arcadia Foundation
The Brown Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Helen W. Buckner
Cenro Corporation ~
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon
Crowley Maritime Corporation
Doubleday & Company, Inc.
390 / Smithsonian Year 1978
The Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation, Inc. The T. M. Evans Foundation The Eppley Foundation for Research EXXON Corporation Edwin G. and Carol Fullinwider Estate of Mr. Howard S. Gale Garfinckel’s Armand Hammer Foundation Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. Mrs. Karen J. Keland Robert J. Kleberg, Jr., and Helen C. Kleberg Foundation

<<<Page: 400>>>

$10,000 or more—continued
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Lushan Foundation
Mr. Richard Manoogian
Mrs. Cordelia Scaife May
McDonald’s Corporation
Mr. Paul Mellon
The Charles E. Merrill Trust
Mid-Atlantic Adfund, Inc.
Milliken Foundation
Mobile Oil Corporation
Philip Morris Incorporated
National Geographic Society
NCR Corporation
T. Nelson
State of New York
The New York Community Trust
New York State Council on the Arts
State University of New York
Edward John Noble Foundation
Occidental Petroleum Corporation
Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Taylor
PPG Industries Foundation
Frank M. Pray Residuary Trust
Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey Combined Shows, Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller 3rd
Mr. Arthur Ross
St. Lawrence Seaway
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Lewis and Rosa Strauss Memorial Fund
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation
The Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation
The Tinker Foundation Incorporated
The Estate of Marcia Brady Tucker
Mrs. Lila Tyng
Union Mechling Corporation
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
DeWitt Wallace Fund, Inc.
Water Transport Association
Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead
The Weatherhead Foundation
Ralph J. Weiler Foundation
The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
World Wildlife Fund
Wrightson-Ramsing Foundation, Inc.
$1,000 or more:
American Furniture Academy AKC Fund, Inc. The Alvord Foundation Amax Foundation, Inc. American Institute of
Marine Underwriters Amos Press, Incorporated Anonymous Ashland Oil, Inc. The Barker Welfare Foundation The Barra Foundation, Inc. Mrs. Evelyn F. Bartlett The Bass Foundation Estate of Anna Boller Beach Mrs. Patricia D. Beck Mr. Barry Bingham, Sr. Mr. Leigh B. Block Edith C. Blum Foundation Book of the Month Club Mrs. John L. Bradley Braniff International Mr. John Nicolas Brown H. Brown Broyhill Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Claus von Bulow The Bundy Foundation Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton Mr. and Mrs. Joshua B. Cahn
Canal Barge Company, Inc.
Cargo Carriers, Incorporated Center for Inter American Relations Century
Mr. Edward T. Chow
The Coca-Cola Company
Mrs. Priscilla Cunningham
Mr. and Mrs. Christian de Guigné Mr. David Dibner
Dillingham Corporation
Dixie Carriers, Inc.
The D.M.C. Corporation
Joel Ehrenkranz Foundation, Inc. Mrs. Frederick Ehrman
Falcon
Estate of David E. Finley
FMC Foundation
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund Friends of Music at the Smithsonian General Mills Foundation
Sumner Gerard Foundation Gilman Foundation Inc.
Mrs. Bernard F. Gimbel
Goethe House
The Henry L. Goldberg Foundation Mrs. Katharine Graham
Mr. Jerome L. Greene
The Griffis Foundation Inc.
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 391

<<<Page: 401>>>

$1,000 or more—continued
Mr. Gordon Gund
The Ewing Halsell Foundation
Mr. R. Philip Hanes, Jr.
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mr. and Mrs. Carleton C. Hascall, Jr.
Hobby Foundation
Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume
Edgar and Theresa Hyman Foundation
Ingram Barge Company
International Council for Bird Preservation
The Japan Ukiyo-e Society
Mrs. Sally Faile Jeancon
Mr. Philip Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Winslow Jones
Mrs. Ruth Cole Kainen
Kaman Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann
Miss Karen Henrietta Keland
Kent-Lucas Foundation
Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney
The Kiplinger Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore N. Law
The Sydney & Frances Lewis Foundation
Mrs. Ann J. Light
Howard & Jean Lipman Foundation, Inc.
The Arthur D. Little Foundation
Mrs. Pare Lorentz
Kathleen Scofield Louchheim
S. C. Loveland Co., Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney
Manufacturers National Bank
Mr. and Mrs. Tom F. Marsh
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller
Mr. and Mrs. John Mayer
J. Ray McDermott & Co., Inc.
McGregor Fund
Mrs. Edwin Meredith
Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation
State of Michigan
The Midgard Foundation
Mrs. William A. Mitchell
Mobile Oil Corporation
Monet Jewelers
Motorola Inc.
Mrs. Nancy B. Negley
The Bank of New York
Mr. William B. O’Boyle
Ohmstead Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer
392 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation
The Pioneer Foundation, Inc.
The Polaroid Foundation, Inc.
The Propeller Club of the United States Port of San Diego
Miss Jacqueline Rea
Sid W. Richardson Foundation
The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C.
Mr. and Mrs. James Louis Robertson
Mr. John P. Robertson
The Rockefeller Foundation
Helena Rubenstein Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin
Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley
St. Joe Mineral Corporation
Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer
Sarah I. Schieffelin Residuary Trust
SCM Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Carl L. Seldon
Miss Elsie Shaver
Shell Chemical Co.
Siegel Foundation
Silverstein Family Foundation
Mr. David G. Skinner
Denmil Slone
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Smits
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens
Dr. and Mrs. Robert D. Straus
Lewis and Rosa Strauss Memorial Fund
The Stroh Brewery Company
The Allie L. Sylvester Fund, Inc.
Professor Ichimatsu Tanaka
Mr. Toyosaburo Taniguchi
Mr. John S. Thacher
Mr. Robert Tobin
Upper Mississippi Towing Corporation
The Valley Line Company
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks Walker, Jr.
Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Wenner-Gren Foundation
Edna Rider Whiteman Foundation
Charles Whitney
Mrs. Claire A. Williams
Mildred Ann Williams
Charles W. Wright Foundation of Badger Meter, Inc.
Mrs. Jean Wright

<<<Page: 402>>>

$500 or more:
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Alsdorf Mr. George W. Hilton Anonymous Dr. Marjorie Hoschlander Baker, Knapp and Tubbs Miss Milka Iconomoff Mrs. Emil Bisttram Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Johnson Mrs. Rena Bransten Mr. and Mrs. John S. Judd Mrs. David R. C. Brown Kennedy Galleries, Inc. Mrs. Helen R. Bush Mrs. Carmen Lacoppidan William H. Buskirk Mr. and Mrs. Philip S. Lawrence Campbell Barge Line Mr. and Mrs. Karl A. Limbach Mr. Willard G. Clark, President Mrs. Marian B. Luchs Mrs. William Gilmor Costin Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Lee Mattingly Mrs. Edward S. Cook Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Mrs. Chester Dale Mitchell, Hutchins, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. de Guigne National Radio Astr. Observatory Mrs. Maria Mercedes de Medina Nef Mrs. Albert de Salle Mrs. Henry Pearlman Mrs. Daniel J. Donahoe III David L. Pearson Ms. Peggy Dulany and Mrs. Herbert Polacheck
Mr. David Quattrone Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal, Jr. Mr. James F. Duffy, Jr. Mrs. Roslyn Rubin George R. and Elise M. Fink Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Schoenith
Foundation Mrs. A. A. Seeligson Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Fleischman Mr. Stephen Shalom William & Martha Ford Fund Mr. Sidney N. Shure Mr. Dean F. Frasche Spring Mills, Inc. Mrs. Helena Fraser Paul F. Stiga Mr. David L. Gamble Time-Life Books, Inc. General Electric Company Mrs. Louise Talbot Trigg Mrs. Leigh Gerdine Mrs. Hooper Truettner Rick Glaser Mr. C. C. Wang Mrs. J. L. Goodwin Mr. John E. K. Wisner Mrs. A. B. Hargrave Mrs. Samuel H. Wolcott
Mrs. Amy E. Higgins
We also gratefully acknowledge other contributions in excess of $275,000 received from approximately 3,000 contributions in 1978.
The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support the Institution’s work through annual contributions of $50, $100, and $500.
The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and recognize major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. This Society, which is the highest order of the Contributing Memberships in the Smithsonian Associates, is comprised of two membership categories. Annual Members are individuals who make unrestricted contributions of $1,000 to $24,999 annually. Life Members are those who give $25,000 or more either in monetary gifts or additions to the collections.
The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous support of the James Smithson Society 1978 Annual Members, Life Members, and the Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Associates.
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 393

<<<Page: 403>>>

1978 Life Members
SMITHSON Mr. Leonard E. Wilkinson
Scott R. Anselmo
Mrs. David K. E. Bruce Willard D. Dover
Dale B. Dubin, M.D. Armand Hammer
Janet A. Hooker
Ronald P. Anselmo
Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Major General and Mrs. Daniel S. Campbell
Allan Caplan
Thomas Grover Cleveland
Carol and Edwin Fullinwider
Jerome L. Greene
Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Robert L. Coleman
Joseph M. Erdelac
Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur James Gould Ida Watkins Harkness
Mrs. Louise Page Kastner
Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn
Membership (Annual and Life)
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson The Honorable and Mrs.
Walter H. Annenberg Mr. Hilary G. Barratt-Brown Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hood Bassett Mr. Henry C. Beck, Jr. Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Best* Mrs. Harry Payne Bingham Mr. and Mrs. Leigh B. Block* Mr. Winton M. Blount Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Brown The Honorable and Mrs.
Philip W. Buchen Mrs. Jackson Burke Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr. The Honorable and Mrs.
Henry E. Catto, Jr.
* Life Members.
394 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Dr. Morris P. Leibovitz
R. Henry and Emery May Norweb Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner Leonard John Wilkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merrill Klein Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord
Elis Howes Robison
Judge Martin J. Roess
Benjamin Stack
Norman Stack
Richard W. Weatherhead
Mrs. Stanley Woodward
Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu
Ambassador and Mrs. Robert M. McKinney Arthur Ross Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith Ann and Vernon Taylor, Jr. Edith Hale Thomas Bardyl R. Tirana Mr. and Mrs. David O. Woodbury
Mr. and Mrs. George P. Caulkins, Jr. Mrs. Robert Horne Charles
Mr. E. Taylor Chewning, Jr.
Mr. James H. Clement
Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles Mr. Marshall B. Coyne
Miss Louise Crane
Mr. Kenneth M. Crosby
Ms. Linda C. Crow
Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd
Mr. and Mrs. Leo Daly III
Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis
Mr. Morse G. Dial, Jr.
Mrs. Kathryn W. Donaldson Mr. James C. Donnell II
Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley Mr. John T. Dorrance, Jr.

<<<Page: 404>>>

Membership (Annual and Life)—continued
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Downey Mr. Duncan L. Edwards*
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans* Mrs. Eric Eweson
Mr. Charles T. Fisher III
The Honorable John Clifford Folger Mrs. John Clifford Folger
Mrs. George A. Garrett
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. Mr. Robert C. Graham, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley Greene Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway Mr. William H. Greer, Jr.
Mrs. Helen K. Groves
Mr. Gordon Hanes
Mrs. W. Averell Harriman
Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold* John and Lucia Heard
Mr. Andrew Heiskell
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Herring Mr. Jacob W. Hershey
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn*
The Honorable and Mrs. Frank N. Ikard Mr. R. L. Ireland III The Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin II Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels Mr. and Mrs. George Frederick Jewett, Jr. Mr. J. E. Jonsson Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen* Mr. and Mrs. H. Warren Kampf Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman*
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.
The Honorable and Mrs.
W. John Kenney Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney Mr. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick Dr. David Landau* Mr. R. Heath Larry Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan* Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr. Mr. Malcolm MacNaughton Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Magowan Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Marks Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott The Honorable and Mrs.
William McChesney Martin, Jr. The Honorable and Mrs.
George C. McGhee
* Life Members.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald McNeely Mr. Henry S. McNeil Dr. Ruben F. Mettler Mrs. Clifford W. Michel Mr. Robert A. Mickle Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Monell* Mr. and Mrs. John D. Murchison Dr. Josephine L. Murray The Honorable and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze Mr. and Mrs. John R. Norton III Mr. and Mrs. Gyo Obata George L. Ohrstrom Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom The Honorable Daniel Parker Mrs. Jefferson Patterson Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson* Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Polk Mrs. Abraham Rattner* Mr. and Mrs. John Paul Remensnyder* The Honorable Frederick W. Richmond Mr. and Mrs. Bernard H. Ridder, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Ridder Mr. and Mrs. Walter T. Ridder Mr. and Mr. Ralph C. Rinzler* Dina Merrill Robertson Mr. John J. Robertson Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock Mr. William R. Salomon Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul II Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr. Mr. William M. Siegel Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman* Mr. David G. Skinner Mr. and Mrs. C. Grove Smith The Honorable and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Morton I. Sosland Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright Dr. Joanne H. Stroud Mr. David A. Sutherlund Mr. J. Fife Symington III Mrs. Gardiner Symonds Dr. Hans Syz* The Honorable and Mrs. Clark W. Thompson Ms. Margaret Brown Trimble Mr. and Mrs. Wynant D. Vanderpool, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 395

<<<Page: 405>>>

$1,000 or more—continued
Mr. Brayton Wilbur, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner Mr. James O. Wright
* Life member
Mr. Barry Yampol* His Excellency Ardeshir Zahedi Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick
SUSTAINING MEMBERS ($500 and above)
Mr. George H. C. Arrowsmith Mr. Richard Lee Birchler Mr. Alfred P. Brooks Ms. Frances S. Doss Mr. Abner J. Golieb Mr. W. J. Handelman The Honorable and Mrs. John W. Hechinger Mr. A. Atwater Kent, Jr. Mr. LeRoy W. Mink
Dr. Raymond A. Mize Mr. and Mrs. Mandell J. Ourisman
_ Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips Mr. and Mrs. Laughlin Phillips
Mr. Marvin Small
Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith
Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger
Mr. Raymond John Wean
DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)
Mr. and Mrs. David C. Acheson
Mr. James E. Alford
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley N. Allan
Mr. Woodley A. Allen
Mrs. Shirley P. Alper
Dr. and Mrs. R. Eric Alving
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Amory
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Emmet D. Anderson
Professor Evelyn J. Anderson
Mr. Joseph R. Anderson
Mr. Myron Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes
Mr. John D. Archbold
Mr. Earl A. Armbrust
Mr. Joseph S. Asin
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
Mr. Fred C. Babcock
Ms. Mildred Bach
Mr. and Mrs. Morton W. Bachrach
Mr. Alan Baer
Mr. and Mrs. Smith Bagley
Mr. George W. Baker
Mr. John E. Baker
Mr. Warren Baker
Dirvandi Mrs) Ee lesbalehy jr
Lieutenant General and Mrs. Earl W. Barnes
Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. Barrett
Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett
Mr. Arthur Bauer
Ms. Winifred H. Bauer
Mr. and Mrs. J. Pat Beaird
Mr. J. Fred Beamer
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Beck
396 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Colonel and Mrs. George C. Berger Mr. and Mrs. John H. Bernard Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer Mr. and Mrs. Steven Bershader Mr. and Mrs. Livingston L. Biddle Ms. Joan Bingham Mr. H. Harold Bishop Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Bjorge Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black Mrs. Denton Blair The Honorable and Mrs. Robert O. Blake Mr. Frank Bliss, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Huntington Block Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Bogan Mr. and Mrs. Mel H. Bolster Mr. and Mrs. Victor L. Bonat Ms. Joan V. Bonk Mr. and Mrs. Philip Bonsal Mr. and Mrs. F. Borowsky Mr. C. Joseph Bowdring Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles Mr. and Mrs. John Boyd Mr. Maxwell Brace Mrs. Eugenie Rowe Bradford Mr. and Mrs. B. Rionda Braga Mr. Glenn M. Branco Mr. J. Bruce Bredin Mr. and Mrs. Terence R. Brewer Mr. Robert L. Bridges Dr. and Mrs. S. B. Brinkley Mr. Harvey K. Brock Mrs. George H. Brodie Lieutenant Colonel William W. Brooks

<<<Page: 406>>>

Donor Members—continued
Mr. James A. Brown
Mrs. Patricia L. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph H. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant
Ms. Amy Morgan Buckli
Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Buhler
The Honorable William A. M. Burden
Mr. and Mrs. I. Townsend Burden III
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Burger
Mrs. Julia T. Burlen
Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Burns
Mr. Richard Scott Burow
Mr. Joseph Burton
Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell
Mr. Marion B. Busch
Mr. E. T. Byram
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Byrne
Dr. and Mrs. Charles M. Cabaniss
Mr. and Mrs. William N. Cafritz
Dr. G. W. Cage
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Callahan
Dr. Francis Caponegro, Jr.
Mr. William I. Cargo
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth S. Carpenter
Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten
Colonel Douglas H. Carter
Mr. Robert J. Carver
Mrs. Eugene B. Casey
Dr. and Mrs. David Challinor
Mr. E. P. Charlap
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk
Mr. Joel Chaseman
Mrs. Harold W. Cheel
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs
Mrs. Priscilla M. Christy
Mr. and Mrs. Jerald L. Clark
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Clement
Captain and Mrs. Richard Cobb
Mr. W. C. Cobb
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas W. Coffey
Dr. and Mrs. David G. Cogan
Ms. Nancy Coggins
Commander and Mrs. Russell C. Coile
Mrs. Ethel Conlisk
Dr. George W. Conner
Mr. Leonardo Contardo
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Corbet
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph J. Coselli
Ms. Patricia D. W. Counts
Mrs. Logan O. Cowgill
Mr. and Mrs. David M. Crabtree
Dr. Fritz J. Cramer
Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker
Mr. Arthur J. Curry
Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Cuthbertson Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Cutler
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Damgard Captain and Mrs. R. L. Daniels Dr. and Mrs. Donald Davis Ms. Evelyn Y. Davis Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis Mr. and Mrs. Keith Davis Ms. Olivia Davis Mrs. Alva A. Dawson Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Dean Mr. Albert L. Dean, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. David R. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Wayne Richard Delaney Mr. Howard Dellon Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Hilliard Dennis Ms. Eileen Desmond General Jacob L. Devers Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Dickey Mr. and Mrs. Allen T. Dittmann Mr. Steven Donaghey Mr. George Arntzen Doole Mr. Alden Lowell Doud Dr. Joseph S. Drage Mr. Wilson A. Draughon Helen Jean Arthur Dunn Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr. Dr. Elizabeth M. Earley Mr. Lawrence A. Ehrhart Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz Mr. George M. Elsey Mr. J. C. Mason Emde Mr. and Mrs. Pleasanton H. Ennis Mrs. Lionel C. Epstein Mr. George L. Erion Mr. and Mrs. John G. Esswein Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr. Mrs. Herbert P. Fales Ms. Marilyn Farrand Mr. Jim P. Farrell Colonel and Mrs. J. J. Felmley Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Fesler Mr. and Mrs. Donald Finberg Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone Mr. and Mrs. S. Greenhoot Fischer Mr. Yule Fisher Mr. H. Marshall Fitzgerald The Honorable W. H. Fitzgerald Mr. Lewis I. Flacks Mr. Thomas R. Flagg Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty Mr. J. Fleischman Mr. Robert W. Fleming Mr. and Mrs. M. K. Fleschner Mr. David Fogelson The Honorable and Mrs.
Edward Foley Mr. and Mrs. Lee M. Folger
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 397

<<<Page: 407>>>

Donor Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Harold Folk Ms. Alverne S. Hellenthal
Mr. Richard E. Ford The Honorable and Mrs.
Miss Helen E. Forshier Richard Helms
Mrs. Janet E. A. Freeman Mr. Ralph D. Helwig
Mr. and Mrs. Randolph French Mr. Jeffrey L. Hendry
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Fribourg Ms. Genevieve Hennig
Mr. William C. Frogale Ms. Deborah D. Herb
Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey S. Fuller Miss L. Heriot
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner Ms. Nona G. Herndon
Mr. T. Jack Gary, Jr. Mr. George S. Heyer, Jr.
Ms. Rachel Gay Mr. David A. Hicks
Dr. K. L. Geoly Mr. Robert A. Hicks
Mr. Robert S. Gillian, Jr. Mr. Alan R. Hill
Mr. Roswell L. Gilpatric Dr. and Mrs. J. D. Hills
Dr. Sanford A. Glazer Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Hinton Mr. W. J. Godard Mr. and Mrs. L. Hoffman
Mr. John M. Goehner Mr. E. Roberts Hofsas
Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Goldberg Mr. and Mrs. John B. Holden Dr. Lea Goldberg Mr. and Mrs. George B. Holmes Ms. Susan Goldman Mr. William E. Horn
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Goldman Mr. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr. Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith Mrs. Lawrence R. Houston Colonel and Mrs. Julius Goldstein Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Hubatka III Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Gordon Mrs. Albert A. Hughes
Mrs. Bette C. Graham Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hughes Ms. Betty R. Graham Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Hunt Mrs. Katharine Graham Mr. R. Bruce Hunter
Captain and Mrs. C. A. Grandjean Mr. Claude D. Hurd
Dr. Sheila H. Gray Mr. and Mrs. F. Irving Hutchins Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green Miss Ann Hyde
Mr. Fitzhugh Green Mrs. S. T. Inglish
Mr. Hix H. Green, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Jacobsen Mr. and Mrs. John H. Groth Dr. Glenn James
Mr. Rand Guffey Mr. and Mrs. W. Janney
Mr. Joseph Guilietti, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Lars E. Janson Ms. Helena Gunnarsson Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries Mr. John F. Gunnell Mr. J. Ruskin Jelks, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Guttag Mr. David B. Jenkins
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Fund Mr. James L. Johnson
Mr. John L. Hafenrichter Colonel and Mrs. F. M. Johnson, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Ernest V. Hallberg, Jr. Mr. G. Quinton Jones, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Francis D. Hamory Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Jung Mrs. E. P. Hand Ms. Anne Kaufman
Ms. Morella R. Hansen Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Kaye
Mr. and Mrs. Lon J. Hardin Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kearns Mr. George D. Hardy Mr. Ronald G. Keeping
Mr. Joseph Hardy Mrs. George C. Keiser
Mr. Robert C. Harris Mr. Stephen D. Kelly
Mr. William J. Harris, Jr. Mr. Harris L. Kempner
Mr. George A. Hatzes, Jr. Mr. Walter H. Kidd
Mr. Thomas Hays’. Mr. Charles T. Kindsvatter
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy III Dr. Harold King
Ms. Mercedes Hearn Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer Ms. Judith B. Heimann Mr. Edgar P. Kirsopp
Colonel and Mrs. Robert D. Heinl, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Klein
398 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 408>>>

Donor Members—continued
Mr. Leslie Kleyman
The Honorable and Mrs. Herbert W. Klotz
Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Knee
Mr. David E. Koranek
Dr. and Mrs. M. C. Korengold
Mr. and Mrs. Fritz-Alan Korth
Mr. Laurence E. Korwin
Ms. Anna Kowalski
Mr. Stanley J. Kuliczkowski
Mr. Albert J. Laflam
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Lanahan
Mr. and Mrs. A. Scheffer Lang
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham
Mr. and Mrs. Felix J. Lapinski
Dr. and Mrs. K. C. Latven
Mr. Robert F. Law
Mr. James A. Lee
Dr. and Mrs. La Salle D. Lefall, Jr.
Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Edward L. Lembitz
Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard
Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Levi
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Levine
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis
Dre. Pe Lewis). }r:
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Lichtfuss, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Liebhardt
Mr. Frank W. Lindenberger
Mrs. Jean C. Lindsey
Mr. R. Robert Linowes
Mrs. Katharine H. Lloyd
Dr. Kathleen E. Lloyd
Ms. M. Lockwood
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Loewenstern, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Loftin
Mr. and Mrs. James P. Londergan, Jr.
Mrs. John E. Long
Mr. Phillip C. Luttenberger
Mr. and Mrs. John A. L. Lyons Mrs. Edward Macauley
Mr. Anthony J. Maciorowski
Mrs. J. Noel Macy
Mr. Alfred C. Maevis
Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt Mr. and Mrs. Walter Mann, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Marshall, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Guy Martin
Mr. and Mrs. Larry B. Marton Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Mascioli Miss Priscilla Mason
Ms. Billie G. Matheson
Mr. Stephen C. Matula
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Maxwell
Mr. and Mrs. Michael E. Mazer Mr. and Mrs. Terence McAuliffe Mr. Donald L. McCathran Mr. and Mrs. Lacy McClain Mr. Matthew B. McCullough Mr. James P. McGranery, Jr. Dr. and Mrs. John J. McGrath Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. McHugh Mr. John S. McInnes Mrs. David H. McKillop Mr. J. Frank Melcher Mr. and Mrs. Alfred A. Michaud Mr. and Mrs. John Miklas, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Miller Mr. and Mrs. E. Kirkbride Miller Mr. R. Eric Miller Mr. and Mrs. Walter C. Miller Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Minutillo Mrs. Edwin Hale Mooers Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward Moore Richard H. Moore Mr. David J. Moran Mr. Charles W. Morris Mr. and Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. James H. Muncy Mr. G. R. Munger Mr. John F. Murphy Mr. and Mrs. Edmund L. Murray Dr. Henry A. Murray Mrs. Albert T. Murri Mr. and Mrs. Bruce H. Nelson Mr. Thomas L. Nessmith Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Newby Mr. and Mrs. William Newlin Dr. and Mrs. Dwight W. Newman Mr. Gary Ray Newport Mr. Thomas S. Nichols Mr. and Mrs. Glenn Nordin Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Norwood Mrs. John Nuveen Mr. Robert O’Brien Ms. Patricia H. O’Connor Ms. Marilyn O’Harrow Mr. and Mrs. Jerry O’Regan Commander and Mrs.
Lester E. Ogilvy Mrs. Carolyn C. Onufrak Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Osbourne Mr. and Mrs. Allan W. Ostar Mr. and Mrs. David Osterman Mrs. Dudley Owen Mr. George E. Paleologos
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 399

<<<Page: 409>>>

Donor Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. Guyon P. Pancer
Commander Everett A. Parke, USN
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Parnell, Jr.
Mrs. R. Parvin
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick
Ms. Helen Ann Patton
Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul
Mr. Stanley J. Pawlowski
Mr. Harry A. Paynter
Mr. Louis Peller
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Walter Peltason
Mr. William C. Penick
Mr. James P. Perry
Mr. Melvin G. Perry
The Honorable and Mrs. Christopher H. Phillips
Ms. Rae H. Pickrel
Mr. J. Pierce
Mr. and Mrs. Larry R. Pilot
Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter
Mrs. Prentice Porter
Mr. Paul E. Postelnek
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Prenzel
Ms. Dorothy B. Preslar
Mrs. Charles P. Price
Mr. Douglas S. Price
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price
Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato
Mrs. Dow Puckett
Mr. Cyrus J. Quinn
Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey
Mr. William Rausch
Mr. and Mrs. Michael M. Rea
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene L. Reagan
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Rector
Dr. Michael J. Reilly
Mr. Don Rhodes
Ms. Gladys L. Ripley
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Robb
Ms. Jane F. Roberts
Mrs. David Roberts III
Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson
Mr. Walter P. Robinson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Rosen
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Rosenfeld
Mr. Benjamin J. Rosenthal
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Rosenthal
Mr. Edwin G. Ross
Mr. and Mrs. Alan K. Rubin
Dr. Maryon W. Ruchelman
Mr. H. E. Russell
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. Hachemi Saada
Mr. Henry Sabatell
400 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs Ms. Dorothy B. Sandleman Mr. and Mrs. David Sapadin Mrs. Joseph C. Satterthwaite Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Savitt Mr. and Mrs. Ron Saxton Mr. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer Dr. Basil A. Schiff Ms. Antoinette B. Schmahl Ms. Diane M. Schmitt Ms. Florence M. Schoenborn Mr. and Mrs. Morton Schomer Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Schroffel Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Schubert Mr. Lloyd E. Schuster Mr. James G. Schwade Mr. C. W. Scott Mr. James J. Scott Ms. Marjorie H. Scribner Mr. Allen J. Seeber Miss Carolynne Seeman Mr. and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers Ms. Jean T. Seidenstein Mr. Sherman J. Sexton Mr. James G. Shakman Ms. Geraldine Shapiro Mr. Donald W. Shaw Mr. and Mrs. Ben Shneiderman Miss Donna Shor Mr. and Mrs. William Short Mr. and Mrs. Milton L. Shurr Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Siegel Mr. and Mrs. Jack Silberman Mrs. John Farr Simmons Mrs. Charles Simon Dr. and Mrs. James D. Singletary Mr. and Mrs. Robert Sivard Mr. Nelson Slater Mr. Sanford Slavin Ms. Victoria B. Smalley Mr. Raymond L. Smart Mr. Charles S. Smith The Honorable and Mrs.
David S. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith Ms. Wilfred J. Smith Mr. Benjamin M. Smith, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence P. Snipper Mr. and Mrs. Harry R. Snyder Mr. and Mrs. Joel W. Solomon Dr. Marian A. Solomon Mr. and Mrs. Hugh M. South Lieutenant General
Thomas P. Stafford Mr. Gary Staples

<<<Page: 410>>>

Donor Members—continued
Mr. Bruce E. Stauffer
Dr. Colby S. Stearns
Mr. William R. Stehle
Dr. Marjorie L. Stein
Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart Mrs. Tegner M. Stokes
Dr. Philip B. Sullivan
Ms. Mary S. Swanson
Mrs. Mary Davidson Swift
Mr. Richard O. Swim
Martha Frick Symington, Inc. Ms. Cleonice Tavani
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Taylor The Treuhaft Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Thomson Ms. Helen Thornberry
Miss Cecile G. Timolat
Mr. and Mrs. Vladimir S. Tolstoy Mrs. Stirling Tomkins
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Toner
Mr. John E. Toole
Mr. and Mrs. David G. Townsend Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Treat III Mr. Edmond R. Tremblay
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Trentman Truland Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Tull
Mr. James M. Tully
Mr. D. L. Turley
Mr. David S. Turner
United Steelworkers of America Ms. Caroline E. Van Mason
Dr. and Mrs. Philip Varner
Ms. Emily W. Vaughn
Mr. John R. Wagley
Mr. and Mrs. Jeremy Waletzky
Colonel and Mrs. John K. Walker, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jay R. Wallace Ms. Barbara R. Walsh Mr. and Mrs. William W. Warner
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Waters Mr. and Mrs. Ray Watkins
Mr. Arnold Watson
The Honorable James E. Webb Mr. and Mrs. William Weber
Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Wechsler Mr. and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann Ms. Elizabeth A. Werner
Mr. Stuart L. Werner
Mr. Kenneth F. Wesolik
Mrs. Mary Nan West
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Westreich Mr. and Mrs. William B. Wharton Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler
Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. White
Mr. and Mrs. Grover C. White, Jr. Mr. James L. Whitehead
Ms. Laura Whitmore
Mr. G. William Whyers
Mrs. Vivian Wildman
Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke Wilkinson Mr. and Mrs. Harold M. Williams Mr. and Mrs. Paul Williams
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Williamson, Jr. Mr. Michael C. Wilt
Mrs. Mark Winkler
Mr. and Mrs. Milton S. Winters Mrs. Loren Winterscheid
Mr. and Mrs. Philip B. Wisman Mr. Clifford R. Wordell
Mr. and Mrs. Herman Wouk
Mr. Walter Ray Wright
Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz
Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney Mr. and Mrs. David N. Yerkes Mr. and Mrs. Hal L. Young
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Zafren
Mr. Thomas G. Zee
Dr. Isaiah M. Zimmerman
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel E. Zimmerman
SUPPORTING MEMBERS ($50 and above)
Barbara Abel
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Abel Dr. James David Adams
Mr. Robert E. Ahrens
Dr. and Mrs. Nevin E. Aiken Mr. Robert R. Aitken
Mr. Richard G. Akeroyd, Jr. Mrs. Charles T. Alexander Mr. and Mrs. George E. Alexander Mr. W. W. Alexander
Ms. Dorothy A. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Junius F. Allen Mr. Ray Allison Mr. and Mrs. Lambert E. Althaver Mr. Joseph Altschuller The Reverend and Mrs. Herbert L. Aman Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Amidon, Jr. Ms. Nancy C. Anderson Mrs. Paul S. Anderson Mr. William E. Anderson Mr. G. J. Andrews Mr. James G. Andrews
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 401

<<<Page: 411>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Anison Mr. and Mrs. M. B. Antrim Mr. and Mrs. John J. Arcuri Mr. Rudolph Arkin Mr. and Mrs. Millard D. Ashley Mrs. Irene Atkins Mr. Philip E. Atkinson The Augustinian Fathers Mrs. H. Thomas Austern Mrs. Dorothy Aylward Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Bach Dr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Backer Dr. Bernard W. Bail Dr. Wallace Bailey Mr. Geoffrey B. Baker Mr. and Mrs. Larry E. Baker Mr. Michael D. Baker Ms. Pamela J. Baker Mr. Robert Quincy Baker III Ms. Melody Rae Baldwin Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Bales Mr. Harry F. Ball Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Bambach Mr. Floyd R. Bankson, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. E. S. Banta Mr. and Mrs. Robert O. Barber Mr. B. J. Barclay Mr. Jeffrey O. Barnes Mr. Harry G. Barnes, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. David H. Barnett Mr. William F. Barston Captain Celia Barteau Mr. John P. Bartlett Dr. H. David Barton Mr. and Mrs. James H. Barton, Jr. Mr. James Bateman Mr. Norman Battist The Honorable and Mrs.
Lucius Battle Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bauer Lieutenant Colonel
R. J. Baun, USAF Dr. and Mrs. P. L. Bayless Mr. and Mrs. Martin E. Bayol Mr. John M. Beaulieu Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Bechtel Mr. and Mrs. George T. Beck Mr. D. R. Beggs Mrs. J. W. Behnken Mr. and Mrs. James E. Behrens Mr. Norman B. Belecki Captain and Mrs. Peter Belin Mr. Fredric J. Bell Mr. and Mrs. John Bell Mr. and Mrs. Calvin D. Beller
402 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Ms. P. J. Belling
Mr. Thomas Bellinger
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Bemis
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Benedict
Ms. Janet P. Benham
Mrs. Brenda C. Bennett
Mr. Edward E. Bennett
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Bennett
Mr. and Mrs. Earl W. Benser
Mr. M. A. Benson, Jr.
Dr. Jeffrey Berenberg
Ms. Carol J. Berg
Mr. Richard G. Berger
Mr. L. Bergland
Mr. Mark D. Berlo
Dr. James E. Bernstein
Mr. Jules Bernstein
Mr. Lloyd G. Berriman, Jr.
Mrs. Viola L. Bessette
Dr. Richard S. Beverly
Mr. William G. Beyer
Mr. Edward Beyersdorfer
Mrs. Howard Bice
Mr. Jery B. Bickenbach
Ms. D. Vaughn Bidwell
Mr. Irwin J. Biederman
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic F. Bigio
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Biloon
Dr. and Mrs. James F. Bing
Ms. Anna L. Bird
Mr. and Mrs. F. Douglas Birdzell
Mr. J. A. Bishop
Mrs. Sallie W. Bishton
Ms. Jill S. Bixler
Mrs. R. T. Black
Mr. and Mrs. Charles P. Blackledge
Mr. and Mrs. Harold D. Brown
Mr. J. James Brown
Ms. Marjorie K. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Brown
Mrs. A. Britton Browne
Mr. Herbert S. Brownstein
Mrs. Truman E. Bruch
Captain and Mrs. Ernest V. Bruchez, USN (Ret.)
Mr. Donald J. Bruckmann
Mr. Percival F. Brundage
Mr. Sherwood Kim Brunnenmeyer
Ms. Lynne W. Bryant
Mr. W. B. Bryant
Mr. and Mrs. Page S. Buckley
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Buddington
Mr. Eugene J. Buehler
Mr. Dennis P. Buehrle
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Buell, Jr.

<<<Page: 412>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. C. Emery Buffum Mrs. T. Bugbee Mr. and Mrs. George G. Bull Dr. and Mrs. Robert W. Bull Mr. Edward P. Bullock Mr. George R. Bunker Mr. R. K. Burkhart Ms. Mary C. Burnham Mrs. Clara May Burns Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. Burns Mr. David Burpee Mr. King B. Burton Mrs. John L. Bush Mr. and Mrs. William R. Bush Mr. Don Butler Mr. and Mrs. Thompson H. Butz Mr. John J. Byrne Mr. and Mrs. Daniel P. Cahill Mr. Andrew J. Calhoun Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Calhoun Mr. Joe D. Calkins Mr. Donald E. Callahan Mr. and Mrs. Gregory M. Cambi Mr. C. Cameron Mr. and Mrs. Brodnax Cameron, Jr. Mr. Richard Caminiti Mr. William B. Camm Mr. Richard C. Campany, Jr. Mr. Joe W. Campbell Mr. and Mrs. John B. Campbell Mr. and Mrs. Roy K. Campbell Mr. William D. Campbell Mr. and Mrs. William F. M. Campbell Mr. Charles F. Campen, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Milton A. Caniff Mr. and Mrs. Charles Cantor Mr. Lawrence E. Cantrell, Jr. Dr. Cesar B. Carabuena Mrs. Mary H. Carder Mr. Henry A. Carey, Jr. Mr. Robert M. Carlisle Mr. Charles G. Carlyle Mr. E. H. Blackwell Mrs. Anthony F. Blanks Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blensly Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman Mr. A. E. Blevins Mr. James B. Blinkoff Mr. Donn W. Block Dr. and Mrs. Eugene C. Bloom Rear Admiral and Mrs.
Robert H. Blount Ms. Josephine C. Blue Mr. and Mrs. Harry Blum Mr. and Mrs. Chauncey G. Bly
Ms. Pearl Pondelek Bodor
Mr. Robert F. Bodroghy
Mr. & Mrs. August Boesche Ms. Germaine L. Bohlman
Dr. J. E. Boland
Miss Johanna B. Boltz
Mr. Norman A. Bolz
Mr. and Mrs. James C. H. Bonbright Mr. Frederic W. Boots
Mr. Arthur S. Boraca
Ms. Barbara L. Borchardt
Mr. E. Bordenet, Jr.
Mr. Vincent B. Boris
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Boston Mr. and Mrs. Jere Boswell
Mr. James H. Boughton
Mr. Richard R. Bowles
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney M. Boxer Mr. John F. Boyd
Mr. John J. Boyd, Jr.
Ms. Barbara L. Boyd-Carlin Mr. and Mrs. David P. Boyer Dr. P. H. Boyer
Ms. Patricia J. Bradbury
Ms. Evelyn W. Bradshaw
Mr. Raymond A. Brady
Mr. Edward L. Brady II
Mr. Thomas P. Brandt
Ms. Leslie Branham
Mr. James W. Bransford
Dr. James C. Bray
Mr. Gerald Brenner
Ms. Molly Breton
Mr. and Mrs. Homer T. Brewer Mr. J. B. Bricker, Jr.
Mr. and Mr. Robert P. Bright Mrs. C. V. Brinkerhoff
Dr. Frank Brochu
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Brockway Dr. Michael Brody
Mrs. Theodore K. Broido
Mr. Edward T. Brooks
Dr. and Mrs. Richard M. Brooks Dr. and Mrs. M. James Brooks, Jr. Mr. Carlton Q. Brown
Mr. Charles S. Brown
Miss Dorothy A. Brown
Mr. George J. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Woolsey Carmalt Mr. Harvey Carmel
Ms. Ruth W. Carney
Mr. Philip L. Carret
Mr. and Mrs. John Carrico Ms. Patricia Carroll
Colonel Charles F. Carter, Jr.
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 403

<<<Page: 413>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. William B. Cassin Mr. and Mrs. Louis J. Castaldi Mr. and Mrs. Edmund L. Castillo Mr. Sabastino J. Castro Drs. Kevin and Maria Catt Mrs. Joseph E. Cavataio Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Chachkin Mr. Charles E. Chamberlain Mr. Alfred W. Chan Mr. and Mrs. James G. Chandler Mr. Paige L. Chandler Colonel John C. Chapman Mr. Clifford S. Charles Dr. Kenneth H. Chase Mr. and Mrs. Magnus E. Chelstad Mr. K. Dexter Cheney Mr. Raymond E. Chesi Mr. and Mrs. B. A. Chinnes Mr. David Christensen Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Christie Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Cihak City Sights Tours, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett Mr. Blake Clark Mr. H. Lawrence Clark Dr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Clark Mr. William B. Clatanoff, Jr. Mrs. Eleanor J. Clausner Ms. Frances Cleary Miss Sylvia Ileen Clements Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Clifford, Jr. Ms. Ane Clint Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Close Mr. Richard E. Cobb Dr. David W. and Joanne W. Cochran Mrs. B. A. Cody Mr. Peter N. Coffeen Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Cohan Mr. and Mrs. Aaron J. Cohen Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Cohen Mr. Bertram M. Cohen Mr. and Mrs. Bruce B. Cohen Mr. Robert N. Cohen Mr. Ronald M. Cohen Commander and Mrs.
Gerald L. Cole, USN Mr. Joseph L. Coleman Mr. and Mrs. George C. Collett Ms. Anne T. Collins Mr. and Mrs. George Collins Mrs. James M. Collins Ms. Nancy M. Collins Mr. T. Clyde Collins, Jr. Mr. A. R. Colon Mrs. J. F. Colwill
404 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. Robert M. Comly Colonel J. M. Compton Mr. Louis E. Condon Mr. and Mrs. Donald D. Coney Ms. Ellen F. Connell Mr. and Mrs. James R. Connell Colonel Michael M. Conrad, USAF (Ret.) Mr. A. George Cook Ms. Margaret Cook Dr. and Mrs. William Cooley, Jr. Mr. Thomas G. Corcoran, Jr. Colonel and Mrs. Robert A. Cordes Mr. William F. Cordo Mrs. Mildred S. Corrigan Mr. and Mrs. Howard V. Covell Mr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Covert Mr. and Mrs. Ronald A. Cowan Miss Mary L. Cox Mr. Richard S. Cox Mrs. W. C. Cox Mr. Patricia E. Coyle Mr. Jesse L. Crabbs Mr. Langdon T. Crane, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. S. F. Creane Mr. Glenn R. Crocker Mrs. Richard S. Cross Ms. Betty A. Crummel Mr. George A. Crump Mr. and Mrs. William B. Culver Lieutenant Colonel Estella G. Cunningham (Ret) Mr. Virgil L. Cunningham Dr. and Mrs. W. T. Cunningham Mr. Gregory Cybul Mr. and Mrs. Emmanuel D’Amonville Ms. Marian L. Dacey Mr. Royal Dadmun Mrs. Madeline L. Daigneault Mrs. Chester Dale Mr. and Mrs. John H. Dalton Mr. Ernest B. Dane Mr. Herbert I. Dann, Jr. Mr. Irving Danson Dr. F. Danziger Colonel Joseph J. Darlak, M.D. Mr. David D. Davis Mr. Montez D. Davis Drs. Nancy W. and William E. Davis Mrs. Preston Davis Mr. Robert J. Davis Captain and Mrs. Vernon E. Day Ms. Donna A. DeCorleto Mr. George B. DeLano

<<<Page: 414>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. Silvester DeThomasis
Mr. A. R. DeVitis
Mr. Alan L. Dean
Mr. H. Lawrence Deaville
Ms. Marie B. Debacker
Mr. Robert J. Decker
Mr. A. F. Delaney
Captain and Mrs. Victor Delano Mr. Arthur F. Dellheim
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Deming Mr. Frank S. Deming
Ms. Rose M. Dennis
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Derofield Mr. Gerard L. DesAutels
Mr. and Mrs. Bill D. Dever
Mr. E. P. DiGiannantonio Captain and Mrs. Paul F. Dickens, Jr. Mr. F. L. Diehn
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Dillingham Ms. Mary C. Dillingham
Mr. Edward B. Dillon
Dr. Henry Dillon
Mr. R. Samuel Dillon, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John Dimick
Mr. and Mrs. S. W. Dittenhofer, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. J. Douglas Diven Mr. Bailey Dixon
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Dodd Mrs. Alfa D. Dodge
Ms. Elizabeth Donahue
Mr. David G. Donovan
Ms. Sharon Kay Dooley
Mr. James A. Dorsch
Mrs. Marshall L. Doty, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David Dove
Mrs. B. E. Dover
Mrs. Charlotte Dow
John P. Doyle
Ms. Maurine A. Drake
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Draper
Mrs. William G. Dreisbach
Mrs. James A. Drennan
Dr. Joseph C. Dreyfus III
Major General Hans H. Driessnack Ms. Collette M. Drobel
Ms. Chloe Drusilla
Dr. Seymour Dubroff
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold L. Ducoffe Mr. E. A. Dudley, Jr.
Mr. H. C. Duffield
Mr. A. P. Dumas, Jr.
Mr. Robert Andre Dumas, Sr. Ms. J. E. Dumene
Mr. Richard L. Duncan
Mr. Walter W. Duncan
Ms. Lucia J. Dunham
Miss Marjorie H. Dunham
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Dunn
Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. John J. Durant
Dr. Edgar Durbin, Jr.
Mr. J. Bowden Duryee
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon James Dwyer
Mr. and Mrs. Quentin P. Dyce
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn R. Eastridge
Mrs. J. T. Eaton
Brigadier General and Mrs. Richard J. Eaton
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M. Edison
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Edleman
Mr. Clarence W. Edminster
Mr. Bert T. Edwards
Mr. Roy C. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Efron
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Egan
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Eger
Mr. Frank K. Eggleston
Mr. George G. Eggleston
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Ehrlich
Mr. Albert N. Eisenberg
Mr. Edward L. Eisenstein
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Eisenstein
Mr. Roger W. Eisinger, Sr.
Miss Babs Eisman
Mrs. John Eldridge, Sr.
Miss Giner A. Elliott
Mr. David V. Ellis, Jr.
Miss Lynette F. Eltinge
Mrs. J. T. Emery
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Emlet
Mr. Ed Endicott
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Epifano
Mr. R. O. Erickson
Mr. and Mrs. Howard E. Espin
Mr. and Mrs. Karl Eurenius
Mr. and Mrs. John N. Eustis
Mr. Selby Evans
Mr. Timothy Evans
Mr. and Mrs. W. Evans, Jr.
Mr. Henri Eyl
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Fabricant
Mr. Lawrence W. Fagge
Dr. and Mrs. Robert J. Falta
Ms. Eve B. Farquharson
Mr. and Mrs. Rocko M. Fasanella
Mr. and Mrs. James E. Fearn
Ms. Margaret B. Feero
Mr. Morris L. Feibusch
Mr. Bruce F. Fein
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Felland
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 405

<<<Page: 415>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mrs. John P. Fellows
Mr. John F. Felter
Mr. John F. Feltus
Mrs. Guido C. Fenzi
Ms. Gilda Ferrara
Mr. Joseph C. V. Ferrusi
Mr. William W. Fibiger
Mr. Alfred W. Fielding
Mr. Norman G. Fine
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Fink Dr. William G. Finnegan
Mrs. Thomas D. Finney, Jr. Mr. Edward P. Fischer
Dr. John A. Fischer
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Fisher
Mr. Curtis W. Fisher
Mr. and Mrs. Joel H. Fisher Mr. Kenneth P. Fisher
Ms. Maureen Fisher
Mrs. Con Fitzgerald
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Fitzgerald Dr. and Mrs. A. L. Fjordbotten Ms. Sally A. Flanik
Mr. Edwin F. Fleischman
Mrs. Julius Fleischmann
Mr. Nicholas T. Fleischmann Mr. and Mrs. Merle Fleit
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry L. Fletcher Mr. and Mrs. John E. Flodin Mr. and Mrs. Henry N. Flynt, Jr. Mr. Albert A. Folop
Ms. Mary E. Foreman
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Forester Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey L. Forman Mr. Robert J. Formanek
Mr. Raymond F. Forthuber
Mr. Jule P. Foster
Mr. Joel Burr Fowler II
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond R. Fox Colonel C. B. Fralick
Ms. Patricia A. Frame
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest F. Frank Dr. and Mrs. R. D. Frank
Mr. and Mrs. DeJongh Franklin Mr. and Mrs. Charles O. Frazee Mr. David M. Frazier
Dr. and Mrs. Irwin J. Fredman Miss Enda C. Fredrick
Mr. Lucius L. Free
Ms. Elaine Freedman
Mr. Donald E. Frein
Ms. Jeanette A. Frese
Colonel and Mrs. Clarence D. Fried Ms. Susan John Friedson
Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Frommer
406 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. William F. Frye
Mr. and Mrs. Everett G. Fuller Mr. and Mrs. H. N. Fullerton Mr. Daniel L. Gaba
Mrs. Roberta J. Gabel
Dr. and Mrs. H. Paul Gabriel Mr. Samuel Gadsden
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Gambaro Mr. and Mrs. John Willis Gardner II Mr. and Mrs. Phil R. Garn
Mrs. Virginia B. Garvey
Mr. William Gasperow
Mr. Robert E. Gayer
Mr. Bradley Gaylord
Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Gayner Mr. Larry Gaynes
Miss Olga M. Gazda
Mr. John J. Geddie
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald L. Geiger Mr. and Mrs. LeRoy Geist
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Geller
Mr. Samuel Geller
Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Genis Ms. Nancy L. George
Mr. Rodney W. George
Mr. Keith H. Gerlach
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Gerviro Mr. and Mrs. David Gevanthor Mr. John Ghiardi
Dr. and Mrs. James W. Giacobine Mr. Steve Gianos
Mr. Wiliam H. Gibbons
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. Giddens Mr. Lincoln J. Gilbert
Mr. Wallace E. Giles
Mr. Harrison R. Gill
Mr. John A. Gillies
Dr. and Mrs. Roy S. Gillinson Mrs. Bernard Gimbel
Dr. and Mrs. Carl Gingles
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur S. Ginsberg Mr. Melvin Gladstone
Mrs. E. W. Glascock
Mr. and Mrs. Lester E. Glass, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. James Glasse
Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Glatter
Mr. Rolf Goderstad
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard J. Godet Mr. and Mrs. George E. Goff Mr. Norris S. Goff
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Gohrband Mr. Robert N. Gold
Dr. and Mrs. Donald Goldberg Mr. and Mrs. Julian S. Goldberg Mr. Raymond R. Goldberg

<<<Page: 416>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Goldman Ms. Gwendolyn Goldstein
Mr. Peter S. Goltra
Drs. Ernest and Malka Goodman Miss Elinor Goodspeed
Mr. Carroll A. Gordon
Ms. Fredricka Y. Gordon
Dr. and Mrs. G. Gordon
Mr. Paul M. Gordon
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Gorman Mrs. Adolph Gottlieb
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Gould
Ms. Kathryn R. Gover
Mr. Richard A. Govoni
Mrs. Jack A. Gowan
Mr. G. Gowans
Mr. and Mrs. Moses J. Gozonsky Mr. Clarence F. Graham
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Graham David Graham Foundation
Mr. Theodore W. Grahlfs
Mr. Hugh M. Gramling
Mr. William F. Graney
Mr. and Mrs. John Grattan
Mrs. Earle Gray
Dr. and Mrs. Frank D. Gray, Jr. Mr. Thomas E. Greathouse
Ms. Enid M. Green
Colonel and Mrs. Thomas C. Green Dr. and Mrs. Louis Greenberg Mr. Antone G. Gregory
Mr. Donald M. Gregory
Dr. and Mrs. James B. Gregory Mr. Henry J. Grenier, Jr.
Miss Gretchen Grieb
Mr. and Mrs. Barron K. Grier Miss Jeanne Griest
Mr. J. Donald Griffin
Ms. Elisabeth Griffith
Dr. Walter C. Griggs
Mr. Richard P. Grill
Mr. Bruce L. Grimes
Mr. Frank M. Grimes
Mr. William A. Grimes
Mr. and Mrs. E. T. Grivin
Mr. and Mrs. David Grodsky Dr. and Mrs. C. D. Groover
Mr. Alan S. Gross
Ms. Sara D. Groves
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Gruber Ms. Reba J. Gruen
Dr. Grace H. Guin
Mr. Darryl D. Gunther
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Gustafson Mr. Louis Enrique Guzman
Mr. Louis P. Haffer
Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Hagemeyer Mr. Robert Hajeck
Ms. Frances Cushing Hall
Mr. Richard T. Hall
Mrs. Robert S. Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Halpern
Mr. Maurice E. Halsey
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M. Hamady Dr. and Mrs. Allen Hamburg
Mrs. Samuel Hamburger
Mr. C. W. Hamer
Mr. Thomas R. Hamilton
Dr. and Mrs. William F. Hamilton, Jr. Mr. Edward Hamlin
Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Hammock
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hampton Ms. Doris Hamric
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Handiboe
Mr. and Mrs. Lee T. Hannah
Mr. and Mrs. Wiliam B. Hannum, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Hansen Mrs. V. G. Hansen
Dr. Stephen J. Hanten
Mrs. Dorcas Hardin
Mr. J. H. Harms
Dr. Curtis Harris
Dr. James C. Harris
Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Harris
Mr. and Mrs. David Harrison
Mr. and Mrs. Allen H. Harrison, Jr. Mr. Peter M. Hart
Mr. George S. Hartley
Mr. Edwin S. Hartman
Ms. Marilyn Reed Hartman
Dr. Saul S. Haskell
Ms. E. F. Hassbaum
Mrs. Nancy Hastie
Mr. Warren W. Hastings
Dr. Fred C. Hauck
Mr. James A. Hay
Ms. Effie M. Hayes
Mr. Joe M. Hayes
Mr. Hugh S. Head
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent P. Healey Ms. M. A. Healy
Mr. and Mrs. George L. Hebben Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hedlund Major Charles E. Heimach
Mr. and Mrs. Martin D. Held
Dr. and Mrs. L. M. Hellman
Mr. and Mrs. James N. Hendershot Mr. Eric D. Henderson
Mrs. Robert G. Henderson
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley W. Henderson
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 407

<<<Page: 417>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hennage
Dr. Jane Ellen Henney
Mr. and Mrs. Harald F. Henningsen
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Henry
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Herman
Mr. William H. Hernandez, Jr.
Mr. Francis E. Hertel
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Hertl
Colonel Lee C. Herwig
Dr. and Mrs. Donald Hesby
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Hewitt
Mrs. Frederick C. Hewlett
Ms. Helen M. Heydt
Mrs. Gail Parsons Heyes
Mrs. H. B. Hicks
Mr. Herbert A. Higginbotham
Mr. Donald Hill
Mr. Walter L. Hill
Mr. Charles H. Himman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Hinchcliff
Mr. William M. Hines
Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson
Mr. Joseph U. Hinshaw
Ms. Barbara Hinsvark
Mr. E. Frances Hinton
Mr. Thomas Hinton
Ms. Margaret I. Hinz
Mr. Robert D. Hippert
Dr. T. Hiratzka
Mr. Stanley R. Hirsch
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Hitch
Ms. Susan S. Hitch
Mr. M. L. Hite
Lieutenant Colonel John G. and Outi K. Hoaas
Mr. Derek J. Hodgson
Mr. and Mrs. John Hoecker
Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Hoefke
Dr. Gilbert L. Hoffer
Mr. Charles Beecher Hogan
Ms. F. Lynn Holec
Ms. L. Holleman
Mr. Henry E. Holley
Miss H. M. Hollinghurst
Mr. and Mrs. Nathaniel Holmes
Mr. and Mrs. X. L. J. Holroyd
Mr. Robert G. Holscher
Mrs. Charles D. Holt
Mr. Roger E. Holtman
Ms. Karen Holtzman
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence G. Hoop
Ms. Rowena Hoover
Mr. Vincent Hoover >
Mr. and Mrs. Walter E. Hoover
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Horning, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Hove
408 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. James R. Howe
Dr. and Mrs. Jack O. Hubbard
Miss Ann Hubel
Ms. Barbara Huegler
Ms. Carole Huffman
Dr. Larry L. Huggins
Dr. and Mrs. David L. Hughes
Mr. Martin Thomas Hughes
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Hughes-Caley
Ms. Marian L. Hull
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Hull
Mrs. E. H. Hulsey
Mr. Vance Y. Hum
Ms. Sara J. Humm
Ms. Celia E. Humphreys
Dr. Albert C. Hunt
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd
Mr. John D. Hurley
Ms. Marjorie P. Hutchinson
Mr. Richard C. Hyde
Mr. Lawrence R. Hyslop
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Idema
Mr. William W. Idler and Ms. Joan Lunney
Lieutenant and Mrs. Scott D. Ingram
Ms. Janet R. Inscore
Mrs. Donna Isringhausen
Ms. Anita Jackson
Mr. and Mrs. David S. Jackson
Mr. Roger D. Jake Jackson
Mr. W. D. Jackson
Mr. Edward George Jacobs
Mr. and Mrs. Ephraim Jacobs
Mr. Nicholas Jacobs
Mr. Rollo E. Jacobs, Jr.
Mr. Harald W. Jacobson
Mr. and Mrs. Martin A. Jacoby
Colonel John R. Jacoway
Dr. Julian J. Jaffe
Captain and Mrs. J. L. Jagenow
Ms. Irene Alice Jaman
Ms. Charlene James
Mr. J. Stuart Jamison
Mr. and Mrs. Donald M. Jansky
Mr. Joseph M. Jaron
Mr. William L. Jarrell
Dr. and Mrs. Gregory Jeane
Mr. and Mrs. Frank R. Jeffrey
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Jenks
Mr. W. N. Jersin
Dr. Shelby Leigh Jester
Ms. Carolyn M. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. David D. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. David E. A. Johnson
Dr. Donald A. Johnson

<<<Page: 418>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin B. Johnson Mr. Mark E. Johnson
Dr. Michael C. Johnson
Ms. Nancy H. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph E. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond P. Johnson
Mr. Robert E. Johnson
Miss Charlotte Jones
Mr. Edgar A. Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Eldon M. Jones Ms. Nell D. Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne V. Jones Mr. Grandison F. Jones, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. John B. Jones, Jr. Mr. Mitchell F. Jones, Jr.
Mrs. Shirley L. Jordan
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Joseph A. J. Julicher Associates
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Kaeser Mr. John M. Kalbermatten Mr. Henry I. Kalfholm
Mrs. Joan M. Kalisch
Ms. Linda H. Kamm
Mr. Maynard H. Kaplan
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Kaplan Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Kaplin Mrs. Fred J. Kapp
Mr. James B. Karickhoff
Mr. William G. Karslake
Mr. D. C. Kaufman
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Kaufman Mr. and Mrs. Larry Kaufman Ms. Ruthanne Kaufman
Mr. Peter S. Kaufmann
Mr. and Mrs. Ira Kaye
Mr. E. J. Kazanowski
Ms. Catherine Kazmierczak Mr. Terrence O. Keating
Mr. and Mrs. Earl W. Keegan Mr. S. Keeler
Mr. Thomas M. Keeling
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene A. Keller Mr. and Mrs. W. Ivan Keller Mr. Robert C. Keller, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Kelley Mr. Thomas J. Kelley
Mrs. H. L. Kempner, Jr.
Mrs. W. L. Kenagy
Ms. Anna Marie Kent
Mr. Andrew A. Kerhulas, Jr. Mrs. J. Kern
Mr. John Kicak
Mr. and Mrs. George N. Kidd Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Kilcarr Mrs. York Kildea
Mr. T. J. Kimmel
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 409
Mr. Robert Y. Kimura
Mr. Harold B. King
Ms. Margrethe J. Kingsley Mr. Charles W. Kinzer
Captain and Mrs. Alexander L. Kivlen
Mr. Albert Kleeman
Mr. and Mrs. Murray Kleid Mr. Kenneth W. Klein
Ms. Roswitha J. Klement
Mr. Louis H. Knaak
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence G. Knecht Mr. Stephen C. Knight
Mr. Wily W. Knighten
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Knorr Ms. Anne Knowles
Mr. John W. Knowles
Mr. Jean R. Knutsen
Mr. and Mrs. Allison J. Koberg Dr. and Mrs. Rolf A. Koehler Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod Mr. John C. Kohl
Mr. Donald Kolodne
Mr. Eugene S. Komarek
Mr. and Mrs. Earl V. Koons Ms. Anne Kopmeier
Mr. and Mrs. Larry Koziarz Mr. Michael Kraft
Ms. Kristie B. Kral
Mr. Albert Kramer
Mr. F. W. Kramer
Mrs. Howard D. Kramer
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Kranker Ms. Nanette Krieger
Ms. Robin Lois Kropf
Mr. F. R. Kruse
Miss S. Victoria Krusiewski Mr. and Mrs. Walter Kudlick Mrs. George F. Kugler, Jr. Mr. Raoul Kulberg
Dr. K. Krishna Kumar
Ms. Mary A. Kumpe
Mr. Arthur B. Kurtz
Colonel and Mrs. J. Scott Kurtz (Ret).
Dr. and Mrs. Otto A. Kurz Mr. and Mrs. Edward Kwalwasser Mr. William P. LaPlant, Jr. Ms. Ruth M. LaPointe
Ms. Benay LaRock
Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Lachman Mr. and Mrs. Paul E. Lackland Mr. Perry Lacy
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney K. Lafoon Mr. John F. Lamond
Mrs. Norma L. Lamont
Mr. Glenn G. Lamson, Jr.
Mr. John Lanchak

<<<Page: 419>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. Francis R. Landolf
Ms. Marilyn B. Lane
Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Lantz Ms. Andrea Larson
Dr. and Mrs. C. Philip Larson, Jr. Mr. T. W. Laub
Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Laun
Dr. and Mrs. Charles E. Law, Sr. Mr. John T. Lawrence
Mrs. Esther C. Lawton
Mr. Sperry Lea
Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Leahy, Jr. Mr. Wilfred M. Leatherwood, Jr. Mr. Robert Lebron
Ms. Betty McCluer Lee
Ms. Candie C. W. Lee
Miss Margie Lee
Mr. and Mrs. W. David Lee
Mr. Marion S. Leech
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Lees
Colonel and Mrs. Jack L. Leggett
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley W. Legro
Mr. James C. Lehrer
Mr. Frank G. Lemmond
Lieutenant Colonel Richard J. Leonard
Mr. George H. Leopold
Ms. Virginia Lerch
Ms. Monica Lescaut
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon H. Lester
Mr. and Mrs. Harold R. Leuba
Mr. Daniel W. Leubecker
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Levenson
Dr. and Mrs. Carl M. Leventhal
Mr. and Mrs. David Levine
Mr. Herman D. Levy
Mr. and Mrs. D. Robert Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. David A. Lewis
Mr. H. D. Lewis
Mr. James P. Lewis
Dr. and Mrs. John D. Lewis
Ms. Morgan Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Martin Lichtenstein
Mr. and Mrs. J. Lickhalter
Ms. Isadore Lieberman
Mr. Raymond Lieberman
Mr. Richard C. Liebich
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Liggett
Mr. William Lijinsky
Mrs. Maren E. Lindberg
Mr. and Mrs. H. Lindgren
Dr. and Mrs. D. A. Lindquist
Miss Jane T. Lingo
Mr. and Mrs. Sol M. Linowitz
Mr. Robert F. Lint
410 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Lederer, Jr.
Mr. Robert J. Liskay
Mr. William Liss
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List Mr. M. Littmann
Colonel Roy L. Lockwood Mr. and Mrs. Jerome T. Loeb Mr. and Mrs. R. Logan
Ms. Myrna L. Lohman
Ms. Ursula G. Lohmann
Mr. Lawrence J. Loiacopo Dr. Sonja Loncarec
Ms. Christine Amory Long Mires enone:
Ms. Juanita Longstreet
Mr. Tom H. W. Loomis
Mr. Joseph P. Lopardo, Jr. Mr. Duarte A. Lopes
Mr. Arnold Lorbeer
Mr. P. H. Loughlin IV
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Loughran Mr. Roland J. Loup
Dr. Ira S. Lourie
Mr. Richara G. Loutsch
Mr. H. B. Louya, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Low Ms. Jane Lowenstein
Mr. William Lowenthal
Mr. Charles L. Lowery
Mrs. Joseph C. Luli
Mr. Harry Lunn
Mr. J. L. Lunsford, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Luquire Mr. Norman W. Lutkefedder Mr. Stephen J. Lux
Mr. and Mrs. James E. Lyddane Mr. James F. Lynch
Ms. Margaret R. Lynch
Mr. Herbert C. Macey
Mr. Robert B. MacGregor Mr. Biard MacGuineas
Mr. T. Macklin, Jr.
Ms. Mary R. MacMartin Mr. J. Robert MacNaughton
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. MacWilliams
Mr. A. Martin Macy
Ms. Paula Madden
Mr. Rex A. Maddox Commander Joseph F. Madeo, Jr. Miss Gail Madsen
Mrs. James T. Magee
Captain Ronald L. Magee
Mrs. Isabel C. Mahaffie
Dr. and Mrs. Robert A. Mainzer Mrs. John Malek
Mr. and Mrs. M. Malmlouk Miss Agnes T. Manclelian

<<<Page: 420>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Mann
Mr. Robert W. Mann
Mr. E. Manuel Manning
Mr. and Mrs. Don F. Manns
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Mansbach Major and Mrs. George S. Mansfield Mr. Richard E. Mansfield
Mr. James Renwick Manship Lieutenant and Mrs. Harold E. Manzy Mrs. Dorothy H. Marbut
Mrs. Edward Marcus
Mr. Francis M. Marion
Mrs. R. A. Marmet
Ms. Mary Martha Marsden
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew W. Marshall Mr. Barton A. Marshall
The Honorable Ray Marshall
Mr. Richard Heeman Marshall Mrs. Elizabeth Martin
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Martin
Mr. Richard W. Martin
Mrs. William Marvel
Mr. and Mrs. Frank R. Mason
Mr. and Mrs. James I. Mason
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Massey Mr. and Mrs. Chistopher F. Masters Mrs. Barbara F. Masur
Dr. and Mrs. Glenn B. Mather
Mr. P. H. Mathews
Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Mauger
Dr. and Mrs. Charles E. May
Dr. Wiliam B. May
Dr. and Mrs. Francis Mayle, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Mazza
Mr. Arthur J. Mazzaro
Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. McCabe Mr. and Mrs. George W. McCagg, Jr. Mr. Thomas L. McCamley
Mr. and Mrs. David McCandlish Mrs. Marshall McCann
Dr. R. McCann
Mr. Martin E. McCavitt
Dr. William A. McClelland
Mrs. Betty McComsey
Colonel Stephen McCormick
Mr. David R. McCulloch
Mrs. John P. McDade
Mr. James D. McDaniel
Mr. Allan R. McDonald
Dr. and Mrs. James P. McDonald Mr. David A. McDonough
Mr. Thomas J. McDowell
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. McEachren Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. McGrath Mr. Hugh F. McGrath
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth C. McGuiness
Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. McHargue Mr. and Mrs. Jerry McHenry
Dr. Richard J. McIlroy
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. McLarney Ms. Mary P. McMahon
Dr. and Mrs. R. R. McMeekin, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Robert S$. McNamara Dr. J. Malcolm McNeill
Ms. Emily M. McQueen
Mr. W. W. McWhinney
Mr. and Mrs. Burch McKay
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead Mr. John A. Meade
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Medalie Dr. Barbara A. Mella
Mrs. R. B. Menapace
Mr. A. C. Mendelson
Mr. and Mrs. Louis W. Mendonsa Mr. M. Bruce Meredith
Dr. June C. Meredith
Captain and Mrs. Robert H. Mereness Mr. and Mrs. Norman J. Merksamer Mrs. Ida C. Merriam
Mr. and Mrs. Harold W. Merritt Mr. David Messent
Mrs. A. W. Metzger
Mr. and Mrs. L. Meyer
Mr. L. F. Meyer
Mrs. Franz Michael
Mrs. E. B. Mileski
Mr. Carl W. Miller
Mr. Dennis F. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Miller Mr. and Mrs. G. O. Miller
Mrs. Kathryn E. Miller
Mr. Lawrence C. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Marc E. Miller
Mr. Milo E. Miller
Mr. Warren G. Miller
Dr. M. H. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Millians Mr. Don W. Minium
Dr. and Mrs. John Minna
Dr. Charles L. Minor
Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Minowitz
Dr. Russell F. Minton, Jr.
Mr. Anthony Mitchell
Mrs. John W. Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Mitzner
Mr. and Mrs. Clint Mochon
Dr. Emile R. Mohler, Jr.
Mr. Robert M. Moliter
Ms. Isabel Moll
Colonel and Mrs. Kenneth L. Moll Ms. Peggy Monaghan
Mr. and Mrs. George D. Monk
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 411

<<<Page: 421>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Dr. and Mrs. J. Charles Monnet Mrs. J. R. Monroe
Dr. Frederick Paul Montana Mr. Marion S. Montgomery Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Montgomery Mr. and Mrs. Philip G. Moon Mr. Brian Moore
Mrs. E. P. Moore
Mr. James Moore
Mr. William E. Moore
Mrs. Mary F. Moorehead
Mrs. Theda A. Moreno
Mr. Leonard Moretz
Mr. Jerry W. Morgan
Mr. and Mrs. Kile Morgan Ms. Margaret Morgan
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Morgan Mr. and Mrs. John J. Morrison Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Morrow Ms. Elizabeth Mosher
Ms. Linda M. Moyer
Mr. and Mrs. John Mudd
Mr. and Mrs. Ted Mueller Mrs. Stanley N. Muirhead
Mr. Frank Muller, Sr.
Mr. Charles H. Mumford, Sr. Mr. Burnaby Munson
Mr. Patrick J. Murphy
Dr. Frank J. Murphy
Dr. J. Bryan Murphy
Ms. Douglas Murray
Mr. Ralph E. Murray
Ms. Dorothy C. Muse
Mr. and Mrs. Bryant Myers Dr. and Mrs. Donald A. Myers Mr. John Rodman Myers
Miss Lucile Myers
Mr. Peter B. Myers
Dr. and Mrs. Joel B. Nadler Dr. and Mrs. Thomas Nadolski Mr. Thomas W. Nawn
Ms. Mary T. Nealon
Mr. Edgar R. Neff
Mr. Joel R. Neisen
Mr. Arthur H. Nelson
Mrs. H. O. Neukomm
Mr. Leland J. Newell
Dr. Earl N. Newman
Mr. and Mrs. Fred J. Newton Mr. and Mrs. Edmund L. Nichols Mr. and Mrs. Henry Nickel Mr. Roger A. Nickles
Mrs. Peter Nicolia
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Niles Mr. and Mrs. Earl G. Nisonger
412 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Nixon
Mrs. F. C. Noble
Major Gerald T. Nolan
Mr. Giles R. Norrington
Mr. David P. Notley
Mr. and Mrs. Michael P. Novelli
The Honorable Mrs. Sam A. Nunn
Ms. Melinda J. Nunnelley
Mr. and Mrs. Paul T. O’Day
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. O’Hara
Colonel J. W. Oberg
Ms. Feralee Henderson O’Brien
Mr. Robert C. Ochsner
Dr. A. R. Oesterle
Mrs. John B. Ogilvie
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds
Mr. Jerry C. Oldshue
Mr. R. S. Oleksy
Mr. Jim Oliver
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth P. Olson
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Olyniec
Mr. Cyrus Omidyar
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Opp
Mrs. Irving L. Opsahl
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Orr
Mr. and Mrs. David Osnos
Dr. and Mrs. John Ottina
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Owen
Mrs. Henry S. Owens
Mr. W. W. Owens
Mr. Ralph A. Palmer
Dr. and Mrs. Michael N. Papadopoulos
Dr. and Mrs. W. Alfred Parcell
Mr. James Edward Parcman
Ms. Alice Mengel Parker
Judge and Mrs. Barrington D. Parker
Mr. Carl A. Parker
Dr. Wayne Parris
Ms. Virginia N. Parrish
Mrs. Richard P. Parshall
Mr. Ronald Pasternack
Mrs. G. W. A. Patterson
Mr. Jeffrey Ewen Patterson
Mrs. Paul Pavnica
Mr. Charles W. Payne
Mr. Raymond Pearlstine
Dr. and Mrs. Harold A. Pedersen
Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Pedersen
Captain J. E. Peek
Mr. William C. Pennington
Mr. George E. Perez
Mr. and Mrs. Waldo A. Perez
Mr. Thomas W. Perry, Jr.
Mrs. Jacqueline J. Peters

<<<Page: 422>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mrs. Svetlana Peters
Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. Pfaeffle Mr. and Mrs. D. G. Pfoutz, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Philibert Mrs. Joseph B. Philips
Captain and Mrs. Charles Phillips Ms. Ruth Phillips
Mr. William J. Phillips
Mr. James H. Pickford
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Pierce Mr. A. E. Piller
Mr. Noel T. Pinkerton
Mrs. E. H. Piper
Mr. Stanley B. Plotkin
Ms. Diane J. Plotts
Mr. and Mrs. Dexter S. Plumlee Mr. Sydney M. Polakoff
Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Polsky
Mr. and Mrs. Leo Pompliano Mr. and Mrs. John J. Popovich Mr. Bernard L. Poppert
Mr. Joseph L. Porter
Mr. and Mrs. Rodman Porter Mr. Paul J. Posner
Mr. John N. Postak
Mr. Harold A. Potsdam
Ms. Laura R. Potter
Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Povich
Mrs. Anne D. Pozzi
Mr. John D. Pratt
Mr. Fred N. Pratt, Jr.
Mrs. Richard Preece
Drs. Richmond T. and Lisa Prehn Mr. and Mrs. Richard Preston Mr. John F. Preston, Jr.
Mr. Robert E. Price
Miss Jeanne Priester
Mr. William R. Probst
Mrs. Milan Prokupek, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey A. Prussin Ms. Inez L. Pulver
Dr. Regina A. Puryear
Mr. John J. Putzel
Mrs. Dorothy Quigan
Mr. George Rakos
Mr. and Mrs. E. Randolph
Dr. and Mrs. Russell R. Raney Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Rankin
Mr. Raja Ram Rao
Dr. Carl L. Rasak
Dr. and Mrs. Walton A. Rathbun, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Ravner
Ms. Isabel M. Rea
Mr. and Mrs. John Gradin Reading Mr. Jack Reams
Mr. Philip C. Reaper
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Reass Mr. Mark D. Reckase
Mr. W. Rees
Mr. and Mrs. Thorburn Reid Dr. George B. Reinhardt
Mr. F. Fisher Reynolds
Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Reynolds Mr. John Arthur Reynolds
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Reynolds Major Glenn M. Rice
Mr. Joseph A. Rice
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Rice Mr. Ronald P. Rich
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Richards Mr. and Mrs. Warren Richards Mr. John M. Richardson
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Richardson Mr. and Mrs. William W. Richardson Mr. William H. Richelderfer, Jr. Ms. Carol A. Richie
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Richman Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Riehl Dr. Monira K. Rifaat
Mr. Elbert E. Rife
Mr. Richard J. Ring
Mr. James E. Ringdahl
Mr. and Mrs. Julien K. Ripley Mr. Stuart M. Ripley
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rixse, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell B. Roberts Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Robertson Mr. and Mrs. John M. Robertson Mr. Paul W. Robideaux
Dr. Max Robinowitz
Mr. Curville J. Robinson
Mr. H. A. Robinson
Ms. Margaret Ann Robinson Mr. Lynn H. Robson
Mr. R. Eugene Rockey
Dr. and Mrs. S. David Rockoff Mr. Charles J. Rodis
Mr. J. Roen
Mr. C. O’Neil Rogers
Mrs. William B. Rogers
Mr. William Rogers
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Rollins
Mr. Steven R. Roman
Mr. Glenn A. Rome
Mr. John J. Roome
Mr. John L. Roper II
Mr. George E. Rose
Mr. Irving Rose
Mr. William R. Rose III
Mr. Marvin Rosenberg
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 413

<<<Page: 423>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. Leon I. Rosenbluth
Dr. and Mrs. Daniel Rosenthal
Mr. R. M. Rosenthal
Mr. and Mrs. Albert S. Roslyn
Dr. and Mrs. Alexander T. Ross
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Rossen
Mr. H. W. Rotert
Mr. James J. Roth
Mr. and Mrs. Alan H. Rotton
Mr. Robert J. Rovang
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Rowland
Mr. and Mrs. William Rubin
Mr. R. W. Ruble
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Runyon, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Rusher
Mr. Jim I. Russell
Ms. Justine Milliken Russell
Ms. Lynn A. Russell-Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Allan J. Ryan
Mrs. John Barry Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. Harry R. Rynders
Ms. Mary L. Safrit
Mr. Stephen M. Salny
Mr. J. Jefferson Sandel
Mr. and Mrs. Craig S. Sanders
Mr. Andrew K. Sanderson
Mr. and Mrs. Julius Sankin
Mr. Howard Santamore
Mr. Robert M. Sarbinowski
Mrs. Robert P. Sattler
Mr. Robert E. Sauer
Mr. and Mrs. John Saunders
Lieutenant Colonel William H. Saunders
Mrs. Simmons B. Savage, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Savit
Mr. Michael F. Sawyer
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Sayers
Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Saylor
Ms. Catherine M. Scannell
Ms. Lisa B. Schade
Mr. Ernst M. Schaefer
Ms. Irma Schaefer
Mr. Mark D. Schaefer
Dr. Joseph H. Schaffer
Mr. and Mrs. Radford Schantz
Mrs. Eva Scharf
Mr. and Mrs. David W. Schein
Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Scheips
Mr. Ronald J. Schellhase
Mr. Robert J. Schemel
Ms. Marianne Schieber
Mr. Bob Schieffer
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Schimberg
414 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mrs. Anita Schlem
Mr. John C. Schleter
Mr. Kenneth P. Schmidt
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Schneiderman Mr. Jacques J. Schoch
Mr. Richard F. Schreck
Miss Greta Schuessler
Dr. and Mrs. William J. Schultis Captain and Mrs. Adam Schutz Mr. Bernard S. Schwartz
Major and Mrs. T. E. Schwartz Mr. Tommy L. Schwartz
Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin K. Schwarz Mrs. Roberta E. Schwimmer
Mr. P. W. Scott
Mr. Robert M. Scott
Dr. Wayne Scott
Mr. Robert D. Scott, Jr.
Mr. Robert C. Scully
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Segal
Ms. Marilyn J. Seiber
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd R. Seiling Mr. Richard J. Sekerka
Mr. Harry L. Selden
Mr. Hortense Self
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Max Selig Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Sellers
Ms. Catherine H. Sells
Mr. Sol Seltzer
Mr. and Mrs. Edward E. Sergent Mr. Charles V. Sessums
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Shacklett Ms. Linda L. Shaffer
Dr. Gordon T. Shahin
Mr. L. L. Shaneyfelt
Dr. James J. Shanley
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Shannon Mr. and Mrs. Clarence M. Shannon II Captain and Mrs. A. L. Shapero Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Shapley Mr. David M. Shaw
Mr. John F. Shaw
Mr. L. J. Sheaffer
Mr. Winslow T. Shearman
Dr. Alan E. Sheen
Ms. Barbara Sherlock
Dr. Robert L. Sherman
Ms. Mary Gay Sherrod
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Sherwin Mr. James Shiells
Mr. John D. Shilling
The Reverend Kenneth H. Shiner Mr. Hal Shiota
Mr. Rufus Shivers
Mrs. Margaret E. Shock

<<<Page: 424>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Shockley Ms. Therese L. Shor
Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Shore Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Short Mr. and Mrs. Harry Shoub Colonel B. S. Shute
Mr. and Mrs. David H. Sibilsky Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Sidler Mr. and Mrs. Norman S. Siegel Dr. Sidney I. Siegel
Mr. Alexander W. Sierck
Mr. Ellen Vera Sigal
Dr. Henry K. Silberman
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Silverstein Ms. A. K. Simmons
Mr. and Mrs. Richard K. Simmons Mr. Matthew H. Simon
Mr. Stanley Simon
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin I. Singer Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Sites Ms. Nancy L. Sloss
Ms. Anne Smalet
Colonel and Mrs. C. Haskell Small Mr. B. A. Smith
Mr. Bailey Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Smith Mr. David B. S. Smith
Mr. Edward M. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Harold A. Smith Mr. Hugh Stewart Smith
Mr. Ivian C. Smith
Mr. James W. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Pitts Smith Miss Josephine A. Smith
Ms. Kirker Smith
Mrs. L. M. Smith
Mrs. Marcene D. Smith
Mr. Philip Smith
Dr. and Mrs. Scott M. Smith Ms. Shirley A. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Stevan B. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Timothy D. Smith Mr. P. Smythe
Mr. Paul Snead
Miss Anne Snell
Mr. and Mrs. Lynford K. Snell Mr. and Mrs. Larry Snodgrass Mr. Earl A. Snyder
Mr. and Mrs. Saul Snyder
Mr. Robert W. Snyder II
Ms. Wanda A. Socha
Mr. Dave Sokol
Mrs. James J. Solon
Mr. Davidson Sommers
Mr. David Sorgen
Mrs. Virginia C. Spafford
Mr. Stephen A. Spalding
Mr. W. J. Spargo
Dr. John P. Spargo
Mr. Edward W. Spears
Mr. John F. Sphatt
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Spiegelblatt Colonel and Mrs. Robert B. Spilman Dr. and Mrs. William Spindel Mr. Gary W. Spokes
Mr. G. Sprague
Mr. and Mrs. David St. John
Dr. Daniel L. Stabile
Dr. D. J. Stafford
Mr. W. A. Stamfield
Mr. and Mrs. Julius Stanges
Ms. Suzanne W. Stanhope
Mr. Ronald A. Stanley
Mr. Warren Stannard
Mr. George E. Staples
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene N. Starbecker Mrs. Edythe E. Stauffer
Mr. Stauart L. Stauss
Dr. Colby S. Stearns
Mr. Gerald O. Steil
Mr. Brent L. Steiner
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Z. Steinway Mr. and Mrs. Peter T. Steinwedell Mr. and Mrs. Leo M. Stepanian Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens Ms. Elizabeth M. Stern
Mr. Daniel Stevenson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. N. P. Stevland
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. J. Stewart Mr. Richard W. Stickell
Mr. John S. Stiles, Jr.
Ms. Mary E. Stilson
Mr. and Mrs. Paul K. Stockmeyer Dr. and Mrs. Charles J. Stokes Mr. and Mrs. Herbert S. Stone Mr. Richard Z. Storm
Mr. John F. Straitz III
Dr. and Mrs. K. A. Strand
Mrs. Richard H. Stratton
Mrs. R. Strickhart
Mr. Floyd Strickland
Mrs. Marjorie Taylor Striker
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne A. Stroup Dr. Warren J. Strudwick
Mr. Albert E. Stuart
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Stuart
Mr. and Mrs. A. Stutzer
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Suchman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Sugarman
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 415

<<<Page: 425>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Ms. Elizabeth C. Sullam
Mr. Eugene T. Sullivan
Mr. Vincent M. Sullivan
Mr. Dwight Y. Sumida
Mr. Donn E. Summers
Lieutenant General and Mrs. Gordon Sumner, Jr.
Mr. Charles A. Suter
Dr. David E. Suttle
Mr. David A. Svendsen
Dr. Russell and Marie Swanson
Mr. Robert L. Swart, Jr.
Mr. Gerard Swarthout, Jr.
Mr. W. M. Swatek
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Sweeney
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Sweet
Dr. and Mrs. Edgar Sweren
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Swetlow
Ms. Lois Swift
Mr. Gerard L. Swope
Mr. Harry F. Swope III
Mr. and Mrs. James McK. Symington
Mr. Albert Szvetics
Dr. I. R. Tabershaw
Mr. Curtis Takakawa
Mr. Worthington Heaton Talcott
Mr. and Mrs. Pier Talenti
Mr. Darrell G. Tangman
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Tank
Mr. Curtis W. Tarr
Mrs. Benjamin E. Tate
Mr. Charles G. Tate, Jr.
Mr. Fumie Tateoka
Miss G. E. Tatting
Dr. Joel M. Taubin
Ms. Hilda Taylor
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie C. Taylor
Mr. Russell Taylor
Ms. Susan Taylor
Mr. Julian M. Teal
Mr. G. L. Tedder
Mr. Thomas Teichner
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph H. Teller
Mr. Joseph M. Tessmer
Mr. and Mrs. Wiley C. Tester
Mr. James Thaggard
Mr. Alfred Thieme, Jr.
Mr. Kirk J. Thieroff
Mr. Allen D. Thomas
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Thomas
Mr. Frank G. Thomas, Jr.
Ms. Linda R. Thompson
Mr. David Thomson
Ms. Mary Edith Thomson
Mr. D. S. Thorne
416 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Dr. John L. Thornton
Mrs. B. W. Thoron
Mr. and Mrs. O. Fiske Thrasher
Mr. Michael John Tirpik, Jr.
Mrs. Sylvia Tkalitch
Mr. and Mrs. Sylvan M. Tobin
Colonel and Mrs. Paul E. Todd
Mr. and Mrs. LeRoy M. Tolman
Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Tomlinson
Ms. Esther C. Toms
Dr. R. Torres-Delgado
Dr. and Mrs. Herman D. Tow, Jr.
Ms. Dorothy Townsend
Mr. and Mrs. Francis R. Trainor
Mrs. Austin E. Trask
Mr. Middleton Train
Mr. Henry R. Traubitz
Mr. Thomas T. Traywick, Sr.
Mr. William R. Trigg III
Mr. Warren L. Tripp
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Trobaugh
Mr. James Glen Trott
Mr. and Mrs. A. Buel Trowbridge
Mr. Frank M. Trujillo
Mrs. James N. Tulloh
Mr. George E. Tuttle
Mr. Walter A. Turchick
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Turkeltaub
Mr. John H. Turner
Mr. Charles A. Turner III
Mrs. A. G. Tuthill
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Tuttle
Mrs. A. C. Twitchell
Mr. and Mrs. Paul E. Tychsen
Dr. Winston M. Ueno
Mr. Thomas J. Uhl
Mr. Ira A. Updike
Mr. Gregory Vail
Mr. Richard Vanderpogl
Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Van Dusen
Egbert N. P. Van Es
Charles O. Van Horn
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Van Story
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Van Zant, Jr.
Commander and Mrs. Joseph C. Vanzant
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore J. Vass
Captain Robert E. Vaughn
Mr. and Mrs. Ray B. Vaughters
Mr. John M. Venditti
Mr. Peter F. Verkouw
Mr. Wesley A. Vermies
Mr. and Mrs. Jaroslav J. Verner
Mr. Harry B. Vickman
Mr. Paul Everett Vinson

<<<Page: 426>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mr. Craig E. Vogel
Mr. Wallace W. Voigt
Ms. Catherine B. Wagner
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Wagner Mr. Ralph B. Wagner
Mr. Richard F. Wagner
Mr. and Mrs. Milo Waldes
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest L. Walker Mr. and Mrs. Norman A. Walker Mr. Robert D. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Wallace Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Wallace Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Wallace
Mr. Forrest E. Waller
Dr. H. Wallerstein
Mr. Daniel J. Walsh
Mrs. Elizabeth D. Walsh
Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Walsh Mr. M. Walter
Dr. and Mrs. William T. Walter Mr. and Mrs. Fred F. Wampler Mr. Glenn H. Wampole
Mrs. Harry Wanger
Drs. Henry and Celia Ward
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Ward
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Warinsky John Carl Warneke and Associates Colonel and Mrs. Louis V. Watwood Mr. John P. Wayland
Mr. Frank M. Weaver
Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Weaver
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Webster Mr. Fred Weck
Mr. Larry A. Wehr
Mr. Norman Weiden
Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Weil
Miss Ruth M. Weiland
Mr. J. K. Weinman
Mr. Fred J. Weir
Mr. Charles F. Weiss
Mr. Edmund Wellington, Jr.
Mr. Fletcher E. Wells
Colonel and Mrs. James F. Wells Mr. and Mrs. Oscar M. Wells Mr. Wiley C. Wells
Mr. and Mrs. Adam G. Wenchel Ms. Sallie Jones Wendt
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Wertheimer Mr. Charles R. Wesner
Mr. Julian R. West
Mr. and Mrs. Lyle H. West
Mr. and Mrs. Larry E. Westphal Mr. Allen F. Wharry
Ms. Carolyn W. Wheaton
Mr. and Mrs. George Y. Wheeler
Mr. and Mrs. Ben White
Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. White Ms. Raquel C. White
Mrs. Robert K. White
Ms. Verna H. White
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. White
Mr. Leigh Whitehead
Mr. James H. Whiting
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Whiton Mrs. Joseph M. Whitson
Mr. G. Allan Whittaker
Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Whyte Mr. and Mrs. John C. Wicart
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Wickman Mr. A. Warren Wiegman
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard A. Wien Mr. and Mrs. Warren W. Wiggins Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Wilbur Dr. U. V. Wilcox II
Mr. Julius Wile
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Wiley
Mrs. Richard E. Wilkie
Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson Mr. J. Harvey Wilkinson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Willard
Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Clarke Williams Mr. and Mrs. Charles N. Williams Ms. Dixie L. Williams
Mr. E. H. Williams
Mr. Gordon Williams
Mrs. Harold B. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Williams Mr. Daniel Williams, Jr.
Mr. Howard Williams
Colonel E. J. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Williamson Mr. and Mrs. Robert Williamson Mr. and Mrs. John K. Willis
Mr. Jesse D. Willmott
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Foss Wilson Ms. Emily M. Wilson
Mr. Jeffrey V. Wilson
Mr. L. E. Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Luke W. Wilson Mr. Robert W. Wilson
Mr. Thomas R. Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith Wilson Mrs. Milton Wilson, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr. Mr. George E. Winch
Mr. Roy Winder
Mrs. Willis Kingsley Wing
Mr. and Mrs. Curtin Winsor, Jr. Mrs. Flora Jane Winton
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 417

<<<Page: 427>>>

Supporting Members—continued
Mrs. Jean Sohner Wirtz
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Wise
Dr. James B. Wise
Colonel Ralph M. Wismer
Mr. Russell R. Witherow
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Woerner Mr. Gilbert A. Wolf
Mrs. Saralyn V. Wolff
Ms. Audrey J. Wolfinger
Mrs. William Wolfinger
Mr. Melville B. Wolpert
Mr. and Mrs. David B. Wood Mr. David L. Wood
Mr. and Mrs. William Woodward Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Woodwyk Mrs. Nan B. Word
Mr. and Mrs. William Work Mrs. Frank L. Wright
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth M. Wright Mrs. Mary E. Wright
Mr. Christopher B. Wry, Jr.
Dr. Jane Wuchinich
Mr. Carl Q. Wyatt
Mrs. Leslie Hl. Wyman
Ms. Marylou Yablonski
Mr. and Mrs. Albert R. Young Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Young Mr. and Mrs. Frederick W. Young Ms. Mildred L. Young
Mr. Kenneth R. Youngert
Mr. N. P. Ytterdal
Mr. John Samuel Yuhas
Mr. William Zacharias
Mr. Stanley R. and Carroll A. Zajdel Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence G. Zambotti Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Zauner Mr. Alan O. Zelina
Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Zelony Mrs. John H. Zentay
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Zimmerman Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Zinn
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc
Dr. S. S. Zungoli
Mr. and Mrs. Gunter Zweig
Dr. and Mrs. Irving Abramson Miss Mildred Akins
Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Albright Mrs. Frances Allensworth
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Altschul Mr. W. L. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Garo Antreasian Mr. Arthur R. Armstrong
Ms. Jacinta Bacchetta
Mr. and Mrs. Franklin Balch Mrs. Paul F. Barham
Mrs. R. Buist Barnes
Mr. and Mrs. George Bashlow Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Beebee, Jr. Miss Margaret Beede
Mrs. Ira J. Berlove
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert C. Bernard Miss Margaret Berry
Mrs. R. David Berry
Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Bishop Mrs. Lilian Blackford
Miss Frances Blank
Mrs. Howard B. Bloomer, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Alvin H. Blum Mrs. Julian S. Boardman
Mr. and Mrs. Ben C. Bowman Mrs. E. Kendall Bragg
Mrs. Jane Braucher
Mr. Reynold Brooks
Miss J. Brosamer
418 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin C. Buerk
Mr. Orton P. Camp, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Waller Carson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Carter
Mr. Ludwig Claps
Mr. Bernard F. Clark
Mrs. Travis H. Clark
Mrs. C. R. Clements, Jr.
Miss Patricia E. Cody
Mrs. Pauline G. Cohen
Ms. Kathleen Collier
Mr. Fred N. Colmer
Ms. Lois Lorton Cook
Miss Mary Cooley
Dr. Mary Rose Costello
Mrs. Robert S. Craig
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald W. Craik
Mrs. Caryl Cramer
Mr. and Mrs. George R. Creegan
Miss Ernestine Crisler
Miss Jacqueline H. de Ghelcke
Mr. and Mrs. I. H. Deitrick
Mr. and Mrs. Norman DeWind
Mr. and Mrs. S. William Dittenhofer, Jr.
Ms. Elizabeth Donahue
Dr. and Mrs. Orville W. Donnelly
Miss P. M. Douglas
Mrs. William G. Dreishbach
Mrs. Robert D. Duncan

<<<Page: 428>>>

Foreign Study Tour Participants—continued
Mrs. W. Gurnee Dyer
Mr. and Mrs. Kent D. Eastin Ms. Alice L. Ebel
Miss Eloise Ebert
Dr. Carol Jean Ehlers
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick L. Emeny Mr. and Mrs. Oscar A. Erickson Mrs. Sandra Joyce Evans
Mrs. Rita F. Farbish
Mr. and Mrs. Henry G. Fischer Mrs. John G. Fox
Mrs. June B. Frazier
Miss Louise M. Freund
Mrs. Harry M. Frohne
Mrs. Frederick F. Fuessenich Mrs. J. Heyward Furman
Mrs. Dorothy R. Gallanter
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Gamper Dr. Mitchel G. Garren
Mrs. John W. Gendron
Mrs. Carl E. Gericke
Ms. Rebecca K. Gilford
Miss Elaine E. Gilvear
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Gleason Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Gleeson Mrs. Joseph Webster Golinkin Mrs. John A. Grammer
Miss Dorothy M. Grant
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Green Miss Nancy C. Greenlee
Mrs. James P. Grizzard
Mr. and Mrs. I. Grodzins
Miss Cornelia Gross
Colonel and Mrs. Allen W. Gullion Dr. Grace H. Guin
Mrs. Mahlon G. Guthrie
Mrs. Joan W. Haber
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh G. Hadley Mrs. Harold H. Hallock
Mrs. Betty K. Hamburger
Mr. Raymond J. Hamby
Mrs. Carl Hammer
Mrs. Margaret W. Hancock
Ms. Elisabeth J. Hand
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Hand, Jr. Mrs. Bryant Hanley
Miss Claire Hardy
Dr. Mary Hardy
Mrs. Eunice Harris
Mrs. Nelson Helm
Dr. James B. Helme
Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur E. Henry, Jr. Mrs. Arthur Henderson
Miss Sophia Herrell
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick C. Hill
Mr. and Mrs. A. George Hoffman
Mr. Pendleton Hogan
Miss Margaret E. Hollender
Mrs. Thomas R. Houghton
Mr. and Mrs. Morton B. Howell
Mrs. Howard L. Hyde
Mrs. Charlotte R. Ingley
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Ireland
Miss M. Roberta Irwin
Mrs. Marguerite S. Jansky
Miss Louise Jarrell
Miss Mona Jarrell
Ms. Sydney Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Jones
Dr. Mary W. Juday
Mrs. E. L. Kane
Commander and Mrs. Bernard M. Kassell
Mr. and Mrs. James Kay
Miss Irene Kent
Mr. and Mrs. Hobart Key
Mr. Walter H. Kidd
Mrs. William R. Knowlton
Mrs. R. Kochansky-Katz
Mrs. Benjamin A. Lee
Miss Anna T. Lehlbach
Miss Mary H. Lepper
Mrs. Rita C. Lepper
Mrs. Marion Levin
Mrs. Mildred Levy
Mrs. Richmond Lewis
Mr. George M. Linn
Mr. and Mrs. Gorge E. London
Ms. Lois Lorton
Mrs. William R. Lummis
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Lunny
Mrs. Jack Brown Lyle
Miss Mary White Lyle
Mrs. J. Noel Macy
Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffit
Miss Margaret Mangel
Mr. and Mrs. Kurt Mann
Mrs. R. C. Martin
Mrs. William Marvel
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Maurer
Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Maurice
Mrs. Franklin A. McCarthy
Mrs. James R. McCredie
Miss Maxine E. McDivitt
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene C. McHenry
Miss Mabel E. McNary
Mrs. Urla Hazen McNary
Mr. Joseph E. McNeil
Mrs. Tatiana Messing
Miss Mildred J. Middlekauff
Appendix 7. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 419

<<<Page: 429>>>

Foreign Study Tour Participants—continued
Miss Mary Ann Millet
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Mochel Mrs. Marie Monk
Mrs. Jeffrey G. Mora
Mrs. J. Morton Mora
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Morgan Mrs. Symbylla T. Morton
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Moser Mrs. James C. Mouzon
Miss Margaret H. Mower
Mr. Joseph A. Murphy, Jr.
Miss Evelyn D. Mullen
Miss E. Jeannette Myers
Miss E. V. Nash
Mr. John Neary
Mrs. Jess Neely
Mrs. E. Marshall Nixon
Dr. and Mrs. Walter Nudelman Ms. Lorraine M. Nye
Mr. and Mrs. Noel S. O’Reilly Mrs. Henry D. Ormsby
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Ott Mrs. Dudley Owen
Mrs. Joe Sam Palmer
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin E. Parker Mr. James D. Parker
Mrs. John Parkinson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. N. Gorham Parks
Dr. and Mrs. Eduardo R. Pons, Jr.
Miss Jacqueline Preis
Miss Evelyn M. Puffenberger Mrs. Richard Quaintance
Miss Mary P. Rafferty
Mrs. Phyliss D. Rapaport Miss Lois Reddin
Mrs. Hertha Reinemann
Miss Jean Rentoul
Mrs. Edwin Tupper Rice
Mrs. William L. Ritchie
Mr. Roger K. Roby
Mrs. Louise Roche
Mrs. J. A. Rogers
Mrs. John S. Rudd
Mr. and Mrs. J. Rucker Ryland Mr. and Mrs. Alfred T. Scigliano Mr. and Mrs. Mark P. Schlefer Mrs. Jack C. Schoo
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Schopf Mrs. Hanna Schreiber
Mr. George C. Schribner
420 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Schulman Miss Mathilda Schwink Mrs. Joan L. Seeley
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Segal Mr. John W. Simms
Mrs. Helen D. Shannon Miss Margaret Shannon
Dr. and Mrs. Harry Smejkal Miss Barabara E. Smiley Mrs. Jean Smith
Miss Leona Smith
Mrs. Irene M. Sorrough
Mr. and Mrs. B. Sprick Mrs. Julie Strellrecht
Dr. Rebecca W. Stewart Mrs. Arthur Stockstrom Mrs. Murray Stokely
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Lamar Stone Mr. Jerome Stone
Mr. Steven Stoneburner Mr. Curtis H. Stout
Captain and Mrs. Edgar K. Thompson
Miss Paula Thorpe
Mrs. Arthur M. Tode
Miss Gladys A. Tozier
Mrs. DeForest Van Slyck
Mrs. Edward C. Von Tress
Mrs. Horton Watkins
Miss Susan Watts
Mr. Eddy Weigl
Dr. and Mrs. William C. Weir
Miss Sprinzl Weisenblatt
Colonel and Mrs. Richard Lane Welpton
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Westcott
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Wheeler
Miss Frances E. Whitehead
Mrs. E. Holland Whitney
Mrs. Charles K. Wilkinson
Mrs. George Williamson
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Williamson
Mrs. Frances Winslow
Miss Laura Winslow
Mr. and Mrs. Kent C. Withers
Mr. and Mrs. Howard A. Wolf
Dr. and Mrs. Harold S. Yood
Ms. Marian C. Young
Mr. Edward J. Zeigler
Mr. William Zimmerman
Mr. and Mrs. Manuel Zweig

<<<Page: 430>>>

APPENDIX 8. List of Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1978
The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for their generous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inadvertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian wishes to thank them for their generosity.
SPEGIAL PROJECTS Donors to the Furnishings Collection
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Arpad, Washington, D.C.: 2 oil portraits by Eliphalet Frazer Andrews of Washington, D.C., c. 1870.
Mrs. David K. E. Bruce, Washington, D.C.: 2 partial dinner services of porcelain, c. 1850 French Old Paris pattern and English Worchester Queen Charlotte pattern.
Mrs. Sylvia Clark, Washington, D.C.: pair of Victorian bell jars with mounted African and South American birds, c. 1870, labeled J. Gardner, Ltd., London.
Estate of Richard Folsom Cleveland and Jessie Black Cleveland, Baltimore, Maryland: English secretary, c. 1815, owned by President John Quicy Adams and President Grover Cleveland.
Dr. Richard H. Howland, Washington, D.C.: Gothic Revival arm chair.
Miss Virginia C. Jones, Washington, D.C.: Rococo Revival sofa; Rococo Revival side chair.
Mrs. Jennifer C. Kruger, Albuquerque, New Mexico: Rococo Revival side chair.
The Reverend and Mrs. E. S. Matthews and Mrs. David C. Wellers, Wappingers Falls, New York: Neo-Grec music cabinet.
Mr. and Mrs. Paul McElroy, Nonquit, Massachusetts: Sheraton side table; Federal mirror; 2 Mission tables; Victorian wicker bench; Renaissance Revival dining table; 4 Victorian metal lamps; field trunk of Lieutenant General Philip Sheridan; miscellaneous English nineteenth-century porcelain; set of Victorian silver-plated flatware.
Mrs. O. R. McGuire, Annapolis, Maryland: Rococo Revival sofa.
Estate of Elizabeth Medinger, Washington, D.C.: portrait of Captain James W. King, U.S. Navy, c. 1855; pedestal; oriental carpet; pair of Renaissance Revival side chairs; Empire arm chair; writing table.
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson, Washington, D.C.: Mission floor lamp.
Peter Mack Brown Antiques, Washington, D.C.: Empire breakfast table.
Mrs. Olivia C. Regan and Mr. William S. Shacklette, Lake Worth, Florida: oil portrait of Mrs. Adolph Cluss by Henry Ulke, 1872.
Riggs National Bank, Washington, D.C.: roll-top desk, labeled J. K. Rishel Co., Williamsport, Pa.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 421

<<<Page: 431>>>

Mrs. Lucy Stark, Uniondale, Pennsylvania: Rococo Revival side chair. Mr. Edward Stead, Baltimore, Maryland: Empire sofa. Dr. Fong Yun Wah, Hong Kong: Chinese scroll painting, An American Eagle.
Donors to the Collections CENTER FOR EARTH AND PLANETARY STUDIES
Applied Physics Laboratory: one-half scale model MAGSAT spacecraft. Bendix Corporation: one-half scale model of LAGEOS spacecraft. General Electric Company: one-sixth scale model LANDSAT spacecraft. Yousuf Karsh: copy of photograph of Apollo 11 crew.
Everett Cassagnares: Lindbergh memorabilia.
Eipper-Formance, Inc.: Cumulus 10 hang glider.
Federal Aviation Administration: Boeing ‘‘quiet nacelle” from 707.
Gates Learjet Corp.: Learjet Model 23.
General Dynamic Corp.: “Tomahawk” cruise missile.
Dr. Paul B. MacCready: ‘“Gossamer Condor”.
Robert C. Mikesh: Model aircraft.
Para-Flite, Inc.: Strato-Cloud parachute.
Polish Air Force: badge collection.
Victor D. Powell: Valkyrie hang glider.
Oresti Sergievsky: memorabilia of Capt. Boris V. Sergievsky.
Major Walter J. Shaffer: memorabilia of Walter J. Shaffer, Lafayette Flying Corps, WW I.
US Air Force: North American F-100D.
US Army: Cessna 0-1.
US Women’s Air Force Directors Office: WAF clothing including uniform of Major General Jeanne M. Holm.
Bristol Aerospace Ltd., Canada: Nike-Black Brant 5-C sounding rocket.
Dr. Constantine Generales, New York: Aerospace biomedical slides.
Rockwell International, Space Division, California: Apollo fuel cells and command module instrument panel.
Lieutenant General G. A. Mikhaylov, Military Attache, U.S.S.R. Embassy: Apollo-Soyuz commemorative stamp series.
EDO Corporation, New York: lunar module surface sensing probe.
G. E. Space Systems, Pennsylvania: Landsat “C” scale model.
Dr. C. S. Draper, Massachusetts: “Pioneer Award” and Goddard memorial trophy.
Richard Koszarski, New York: rocket motor and related documents.
Marian Banks, San Diego, California: autographed photographs of the “Powder Puff Derby” winners.
C. E. Becker, Wankesha, Wisconsin: Charles Lindbergh commemorative cover.
Mrs. Mary C. Doxsee, Athens, Ohio: 4 photographs of the “Old Glory” crew.
Lieutenant M. J. Kasiuba, Texarkana, Arkansas: 6 aircraft slides.
Rae R. Lewis, Washington, D. C.: 30 baggage labels.
Trent J. Morgan, Clintonville, Wisconsin: Charles Lindbergh handbill.
Mrs. J. B. Newman, Arlington, Virginia: diary of Carl Mitman.
422 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 432>>>

Graeme T. Powell, Canberra, Australia: plaque commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the first trans-Pacific flight of the Southern Cross.
Charles Sachs, (The Scriptorium), Beverly Hills, California: authentic facsimile of the original flight chart, dated December 12, 1927, with a holograph addendum in the hand of Charles A. Lindbergh.
Mark Slota, Greenack, Scotland: photographs of the Tupolev TU 4.
Frank Winter, Washington, D.C.: 74 space music and sound phonograph records.
Donors to the NASM Art Collections
Anonymous: Astronaut in Space, by Joan FitzGerald.
Tsing-Fang Chen (artist): Homage to the Flight.
Jack Coggins (artist): Braking Down on the Moon.
Enrique Cordero (artist): Super Nova.
Anne Duncan (artist): PT-17.
Jorge Espinosa (artist): Luna Nueva.
Donald Gates (artist): Free Throw.
James Goode: 2nd Lt. Robert Coleman, by Camelia Whitehurst.
William Hartman (artist): Martian River Channels.
Carol Schiffleger (artist): Passage V.
Frances Schoenwetter (artist): Astronaut.
Charles W. Smith (artist): Cocards and Roundels.
Ingo Swann (artist): Aft Ship’s View of Sagittarius; Highways, #1; Salt Flat’s Vision.
Lee Weiss (artist): Night Song.
Donors of Financial Support—National Anthropological Film Center
Peggy Dulaney and David Quattrone: in support of the National Anthropological Film Center’s film records on human behavior.
National Cancer Institute: for a research film study among the inhabitants of the Hunza Valley in the Karakoram Mountains of Pakistan.
William B. O’Boyle: toward support of the work of the National Anthropological Film Center.
Donors and Collaborative Acquisitions— National Anthropological Film Center
Dr. and Mrs. Robert Chanock: library copies of Tokyo String Quartet tape recordings of eight performances at the Corcoran Gallery of Art using the rare seventeenth-century Amati instruments.
Lewis Cotlow: 2,800 feet of film of traditional Eskimo life, entitled High Arctic, plus four books for the National Anthropological Film Center Library written by the donor: In Search of the Primitive; The Twilight of the Primitive; Zanzabuku; and Amazon Head-Hunters.
National Anthropological Film Center: 28,000 feet of synch sound research footage of traditional daily life on Pukapuka Atoll, Cook Islands, filmed in 1977-1978; and 15,626 feet of synch sound research footage of traditional Polynesian dance in the Cook Islands, filmed in May 1978.
Sandra Nichols: 70,992 feet of negative and workprint from the film record Maragoli, a documentary film depicting cultural change in Western Kenya in 1976.
Mary Ryan: 583 feet of black-and-white film, shot in the 1930s, of the Jivaro Indians of Ecuador.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 423

<<<Page: 433>>>

Donors of Financial Support
American Can Company
Anonymous
Association of Pennsylvania State College
Center for Environmental Education, Inc.
Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company
The Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation, Inc.
The Eppley Foundation for Research
Exxon Corporation
FMC Corporation
Sumner Gerard Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Goldman
Wenner Gren Foundation
The Griffis Foundation, Inc.
Armand Hammer Foundation
Ronald W. Heyer
Mrs. Amy E. Higgins
Mary Stuart Horner
George J. Jacobs
Restricted Trust Fund Donors
Beauregard Fund Brown Fund Canfield Fund Casey Fund Chamberlain Fund Drake Fund Hillyer Fund Hitchcock Fund Hrdlicka Fund Hughes Fund
Donors to the National Collections
Aarhus Universitet, Denmark
Aberdeen, University of, Scotland
Academy of Sciences, U.S.S.R.
Adelaide, University of, Australia
Agriculture, U.S. Department of
Albany Museum, South Africa
Alberta, University of, Canada
Allan Hancock Foundation
Alpine Exploration
American Federation of Mineralogical Societies
American Museum of Natural History
American University
Amoco Production Company
Arabian American Oil Company
424 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Krotki
Latin American Archeology Fund
J. Ray McDermott
National Geographic Society
New Jersey Shell Club
Frank S. Phillips, Inc.
The Rockefeller Foundation
St. Joe’s Mineral Corporation
Atherton Seidell
Shell Chemical Company
Paul Slud
Lewis and Rosa Strauss Memorial Fund
Stuart Foundation
The Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation
The Tinker Foundation, Inc.
Marion D. Tolbert
Union 1st National Bank
Dewitt Wallace Fund
World Wildlife Fund
George R. Zug
Kellogg Fund Maxwell Fund Mitchell Fund Noyes Fund Rathbun Fund Roebling Fund Schultz Fund Sprague Fund Springer Fund Walcott Fund
Argonne National Laboratory
Arizona State University
Arizona, University of
Arthropod-Borne Animal Diseases Research
Auburn University
Auckland, University of, New Zealand
Australian Museum, Australia
Bagdad, University of, Iraq
Battelle
Bellairs Research Institute of McGill University, West Indies
Belmont Abbey College
Bermuda Biological Station, Bermuda
Bernice P. Bishop Museum

<<<Page: 434>>>

Biosystematics Research Institute, Canada
Black Hills Minerals
Blair Research Laboratory, Rhodesia
Blakely Minerals and Gems
Bombay, University of, India
Boston, University of
Botanischer Garten, West Germany
Bradeanum Herbarium, Brazil
Brigham University
Brigham Young University
British Columbia Provincial Museum, Canada
British Columbia, University of, Canada
British Museum of Natural History, England
Bruce Hughes Fund
Bureau of Mineral Resources, Australia
Calgary, University of, Canada
Calicut University, India
California Academy of Sciences
California Institute of Technology
California State University
California State University at Sacramento
California, University of
California, University of at Berkeley
California, University of at Santa Barbara
California, State of
Cambridge, University of, England
Canada Centre for Mineral and Energy Technology Mineralogy
Canada, Agriculture Research Station
Canada, Geological Survey of
Canberra Botanic Garden, Australia
Canfield Fund
Canterbury, University of, New Zealand
Cape Breton College, Canada
Cape Town, University of, South Africa
Carnegie Institution of Washington
Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Carol’s Rock Shop
Catoctin Mountain Zoo
Cattey College
Centre O. R. S. T. O. M., France
Chamberlain Fund
Chicago, University of
Cincinnati, University of
Cleveland Museum of Natural History
Cnia Nataima, Colombia
College of North Wales
Colorado Gem and Mineral Company
Colorado State University
Columbia University
Commerce, U.S. Department of
Commonwealth Institute of Entomology, England
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australia
Connecticut, University of
Consejo Superior de Investigacione Cientificas, Spain
Coordenadora Geral do Instituto de Formacao de Technologie, Brazil
Copenhagen, University of, Denmark
Cornell University
County Sanitation Districts of Orange County, California
Crystal Cavern Minerals
Crystals of India
Defense, U.S. Department of, Army
Defense, U.S. Department of, Navy
Defense, U.S. Department of, Air Force
Delaware Museum of Natural History
Delaware, University of
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Zealand
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research Chemistry, New Zealand
Duke University
Duke University Herbarium
East Africa, University of, Kenya
Ecole Nationale Superieure des Mines, France
Escuela Nacional de Agricultura, Mexico
Escuela Superior de Ciencias Marinas, Mexico
Fairchild Tropical Garden
Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources, Germany
Field Mueum of Natural History
Fisheries Research Board of Canada
Florida A & M University
Florida, Geological Survey of
Florida State University
Florida State Museum
Florida, State of
Forschungsinstitut Natur Museum Senckenberg, Germany
Franklin and Marshall College
Friday Harbor Laboratories
Fundacao Instituto Agronomico do Parana, Brazil
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 425

<<<Page: 435>>>

Gemological Institute of America
Geological and Mining Museum, Australia
Geological Museum, Denmark
George Washington University
George William College
Georgia, State of
Georgia, University of
Ghana, University of, Ghana
Goteborgs Universitet, Sweden
Grand Valley State Colleges
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory Museum
Hansen Minerals
Harry Winston, Inc.
Harvard Medical School
Harvard University
Hawaii, University of
Hawaii, University of at Manoa
Health, Education and Welfare, U.S. Department of
Heidelberg, der Universitat, Germany
Helsinki, University of, Finland
Herbario “Alberto Castellanos”, Brazil
Hokkaido University, Japan
Hungarian Natural History Museum, Hungary
Huntington Botanical Gardens
Ichthyological Associates
Idaho, State of
Illinois Natural History Survey
Illinois, University of
Imperial Household Biological Laboratory, Japan
India, Zoological Survey of
Indiana, State of
Indiana, University of
Institute de Medicine Tropicale, Belgium
Institute for Systematic Botany, Netherlands
Institute of Mineralogy, U.S.S.R.
Instituo Botanica Darwinton, Argentina
Instituto Botanico, Venezuela
Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario, Colombia
Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario, Tibaitata of Entomology, Colombia
Instituto de Biologia Del Mare, Italy
Instituto de Biologia Unam, Mexico
Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Colombia
Instituto de Conservacao de Natureza, Brazil
426 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Instituto de Edafologia, Spain
Instituto di Biologia Del Mare, Italy
Instituto Nacional da Pesquisas de Amazonia, Brazil
Instituto Politecnico Nacional
Instituto Technologico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, Mexico
Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission
Interior, U.S. Department of
Iowa, University of
Island Resources Foundation, Inc., Virgin Islands
Jamaica Institute of Science Museum, Jamaica, West Indies
Japan Marine Fishery ResourceResearch Center, Japan
Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Jardin Botanique National de Belgique, Belgium
Jewel Tunnel Imports
Johns Hopkins University
Kansas State University
Kansas, University of
Karachi, University of, Pakistan
Kentucky, Commonwealth of
Kentucky, University of
Kenya National Museum
Kiel, University of, Germany
Kobe University, Japan
Kristalle
Kumamoto University, Japan
Kuwait University
La Trob University, Australia
Laboratorio di Tecnologia Della Pesca, Italy
Lae, Territory of Papua, New Guinea
Lafayette College
Lamar University
Lawler, Matusky and Skelly Engineers
Leiden, University of, The Netherlands
Liege, University of, Belgium
Liverpool Polytechnic, England
London, King’s College, University of, England
Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History
Los Angeles Zoo
Louisville, Museum of Natural History and Science
Lyko Mineral and Gem, Inc.
Maine, University of
Malaya, University of, Malaysia
Manchester, University of, England

<<<Page: 436>>>

Marie Selby Botanical Gardens
Marine Research Foundation
Marine Research Laboratory
Maryland, State of
Maryland, University of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Massachusetts, University of
MDI Corporation
Merck, Sharp and Dohme Research Laboratories
Miami, University of
Michigan State University
Michigan Tech University
Michigan, University of
Mineralogical Research Company
Mineralogisches Institut, Germany
Mineralogisk-Geologisk Museum, Norway
Minerals Unlimited
Minette
Ministry of Agriculture, Land and Fisheries, Trinidad
Minnesota, University of
Missouri Botanical Garden Herbarium
Mobile Oil Corporation
Monash University, Clayton, Australia
Moss Landing Marine Laboratory
Musee Royal de |’Afrique Centrale, Belgium
Museo de Historia Natural, Peru
Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil
Museum d’Histoire Naturelle, Switzerland
Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, France
Nairobi, University of, Africa
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Fund
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
National Herbarium of New South Wales, Australia
National Institute for Metallurgy, South Africa
National Museum in Prague, Czechoslovakia
National Museum of Natural History, Dominican Republic
National Museum of Natural History, France
National Museum of Natural Sciences, Canada
National Museum of New Zealand
National Museum of Wales,
United Kingdom
National Science Foundation
National Science Museum, Japan
National Science Museum, Tokyo
Natural Arts
Naturhistorisches Museum, Basel, Switzerland
Naturhistoriska Rijksmuseet, Sweden
Nebraska, University of
New Hebrides Condominium Geological Survey, New Hebrides
New Orleans, University of
New South Wales, University of, Australia
New York Botanical Garden
New Zealand Geological Survey, New Zealand
Newcastle upon Tyne, University of, England
Nonomura Studios
Noordbrabants Museum, Netherlands
North Alabama, University of
North Carolina State Museum of Natural History
North Carolina State University
Northern Iowa, University of
Nucleo de Sucre, Venezuela
Ocean City Civic Club
Oceanside Gem Imports, Inc.
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer, France
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer, French Guyana
Ohio State University
Ohio, State of
Old Dominion University
Oregon State University
Otago, University of, New Zealand
Oxford, University of, England
Pala Properties International, Inc.
Pensacola Junior College
Pet Farm, Inc.
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences
Philippines, University of
Phuket Marine Biological Center, Thailand
Point Reyes Bird Observatory
Puerto Rico, University of
Queens College
Republica Peruana, Peru
Rhode Island, University of
Rhodes University, South Africa
Rijksherbarium, Netherlands
Rijksmuseum Van Natuurlijke Historie, Netherlands
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 427

<<<Page: 437>>>

Rijksuniversiteit de Utrecht, Netherlands
Roebling Fund
Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia
Royal Botanic Gardens, England
Royal Botanic Gardens, Scotland
Royal Ontario Museum, Canada
Scotland, Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, Scotland
South African Museum, South Africa
South Carolina, University of
South Florida, University of
Southern California Coastal Water Research Project
Southwest Foundation for Research and Education
St. Joseph’s College, India
Stanford Natural History Museum
New York, State University College
State, U.S. Department of
Station Marine d’Endoume, France
Sul Ross State University
Sul Ross University
Swedish Museum of Natural History, Sweden
Tampa, University of
Teheran, University of, Iran
Tel-Aviv, University of, Israel
Tennessee Valley Authority
Tennessee, University of
Texas A&M Marine Laboratory
Texas A&M University
Texas Speleological Survey
Texas Tech University
Texas, University of
Texas, University of at Austin
Texas, University of at Dallas
Texas, University of at El Paso
The Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Japan
The Marine Biomedical Institute
The Mineralogical Record
Tokyo, University of, Japan
Toronto, University of, Canada
Towson State College
Transvaal Museum, Republic of South Africa
Tulane University
Ulster Museum, Ireland
Underwater Biological Research
United Nations
United States Steel Corporation
Universidad Austral de Chile, Chile
Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana Iztapalapa, Mexico
Universidad Catolica de Valparaiso, Chile
428 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Universidad de Concepcion, Chile
Universidad de Costa Rica, Central America
Universidad de los Andes, Colombia
Universidad de los Andes, Venezuela
Universidad de Oriente, Venezuela
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Mexico
Universidad Nacional De Colombia. Colombia
Universidad Nacional del Nordeste, Argentina
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil
Universita degli Studi, Italy
Universita delgi Studi, di Milano, Italy
Universita di Pisa, Italy
Universita Torino, Italy
Universitat Hamburg, West Germany
Universitat Heidelberg, Germany
Universitat Osnabruck Abt. Vechta, Germany
Universitat Stuttgart, Germany
Universitat Zu Berlin, East Germany
Universite D’Aix Marseille, France
Universite de Dijon, France
Universite de Paris, France
Universiteit Van Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Universitetet I Bergen, Norway
Universitets Zoologiske Museum, Denmark
University of the South
Uppsala, University of, Sweden tah State University
Utah, University of
Vanderbilt University
Venezuelu, Republica de, Venezuela
Virginia Institute of Marine Science
Virginia Military Institute
Virginia Polytechnic Institute
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Virginia State Library
W. L. Abott Fund
Washington State University
Washington, State of
Washington, University of
Wenner Gren Foundation for Anthropology Research, Inc.
Western Australia, University of, Australia
Western Australian Museum, Western Australia
Western Minerals
What on Earth
Wisconsin, University of,

<<<Page: 438>>>

Wollongong, University of, Australia
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution
Acciavatti, Robert E. Agnew, Mary Grace Akers, Dr. W. H.
Alpern, Dr. D. K.
Amin, Dr. Omar M. Andersen, Dr. William A. Angle, J. Phillip
Anne, Martin
Armstrong, Mr. and Mrs. Julian
Ash, Mrs. Jonquil Ashby, Wallace L. Ashley, Burton E. Aslakson, Captain Carl I. Bacescu, Dr. Doc M. Baddeley, M. O. E. Bagchi, Dr. Pranab Baker, James H.
Banks, Harold H. Baranowski, Dr. Richard M. Barber, John C. Barbosa, Carlos Do Prado Barker, Mrs. Patricia Barker, Mrs. Robert Barlow, F. John Barnard, Dr. J. L. Barnes, Mrs. Broda O. Barreto, Luizhelio Bartelke, Wolfgang Baum, John L.
Bayer, Dr. Frederick M. Bayliss, R. D. A.
Beale Dr, Re S;, Jr: Belkin, Dr. J. N. Belsher, Mrs. Dee Bennett, Dr. Fred Bennett, Mrs. Thelma Bennett, Virginia W. Benson, Dr. Richard H. Berman, Dr. Bernard A. Bernard, Dr. Frank
Berry, Dr. and Mrs. William B.
Beshear, Dr. Ramona J. Bevensee, Sean
Bick, Dr. George H. Bickley, William E. Biggs, Dr. Douglas C. Billipp, James
Birtles, Alastair Bishop, Dr. Gale A. Blasdell, Francis S.
Zoological Institute, Sweden
Zoologisches Institute der Universitat Munster
Zoologisk Museum, Denmark
Blow, Warren
Blume, Dr. Richard R.
Boggs, Robert
Bolick, Mr. and Mrs. Glenn
Bonar, Henry B.
Booth, Dr. Billie B., Jr.
Bostwick, Richard
BCoucot, Dr. Arthur J.
Bourgeois, Marie E. (Deceased)
Brandon, Dr. Donald A.
Brewer, George N.
Bridges, Campbell R.
Brigham, Dr. Warren U.
Brinkhurst, Dr. R. O.
Broadley, Dr. Donald G.
Broadwin, Thomas L.
Brodjinsky, Jake
Brodney, Kay
Brown, A. P.
Brown, Dr. Kathleen O.
Brown, Dr. Walter C.
Brown, Dr. William L., Jr.
Brown, Jane Liberty
Browne, Mrs. Ruth G.
Bruce, Dr. A. J.
Bruce, George A.
Brumbach, Dr. William C.
Buchanan, Mrs. Richard B.
Buechener, Dr. Helmut K.
Buetelspacher, Dr. Carlo
Bullock, Dr. Theodore H.
Burch, Dr. and Mrs. Thomas A.
Burr, Allan L.
Busack, Stephen D.
Buzas, Dr. Martin A.
Calhoun, Wallace
Campiranon, Dr. Amara Markvong
Cannon, Bart
Caplan, Allan
Capriles, Dr. J. Maldonado
Cardin, Master Sergeant Charles
Carle, Frank Louis
Cartwright, Oscar L.
Cate, Crawford N.
Cei, Jose M.
Cernohorsky, Walter O. Chadwick, James P., Commander USNR
Challet, Gilbert
Chalumeau, Dr. Fortune
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 429

<<<Page: 439>>>

Chamberlain, Steve Dickson, C. G.
Charter, R. R. Dietz, Robert E., IV Chaudhuri, Dr. P. K. Disney, Dr. R. H. L. Chavez, Sr. Rene Ditada, Ismael E. Chester, Jim Dodd, Dr. C. Kenneth Child, C. Allan Donaldson, Mr. and Mrs. Charles T.., Chilman, Dr. William A. Sr.
Chilman, Dr. Ruth E. Douglas, Raymond Chilman, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Dowell, R. W.
Choremi, John Downer, Mrs. Audrey C. Christianson, W. D. Doyen, Dr. John T. Claffy, Mrs. Ester Dubin, Dr. Dale B. Clark, Don M. Dugdale, John S.
Clark, Dr. Wayne Dunn, Mrs. Ethel L. Clark, William H. Dunn, Pete J.
Clarke, Dr. Arthur H. Dunson, Dr. William A. Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates Easland, Leslie B. Clarke, Dr. William H. Ebert, Professor Thomas A. Cobben, Dr. R. H. Ebertz, Mark R.
Cohen, Mrs. Anne Edwards, Dr. George D. Coil, Clarence Egoscue, Harold J. Collins, J. R. Elliot, Dr. Orville
Cook, Dr. William R., Jr. Elliott, Dr. Nancy
Cook, Mrs. Alice W. Elmberg, Johan
Cooke, Dr. Richard Emerson, Dr. K. C. Coon, Carleton Emry, Dr. Robert J. Corliss, Dr. Bruce H. Ernst, Dr. Carl H. Corliss, Dr. Jack Erwin, Dr. Terry L. Cosses, Cecil S., Jr. Evans, Dr. Clifford Cowden, Susan Eyerdam, Dr. Walter J. Cox, W. S. Fain, Dr. A.
Craig, Wilfred S. Farmer, Raymond Cranfill, Julian Farmer, Wesley M. Critchely, Dr. Brian R. Farrington, Charles A. Crombie, Ronald I. Faulkner, Douglas Cuatrecasas, Dr. Jose Feist, George
Cullinan, Michael Feldman, Dr. Lawrence Cunningham, Chris Felix, Dr. Charles J. Cureton, F., II Fender, Kenneth Curfman, Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Ferreira, Dr. Antonio J. Dahl, Dr. Arthur L. Figiel, Dr. Leo
Dahrling, Dr. Bruce E., II Figiel, Dr. Steven Darnell, Mrs. Delbert A. Fincher, Dr. G. Truman Darrah, Dr. William Culp Fitzhugh, Dr. William Davidson, Dr. Robert Fitzpatrick, The Reverend Tom Davis, Dr. and Mrs. Donald R. Fjellberg, Dr. Arne Davis, Dr. Donald R. Fleischer, Dr. Michael Dawson, Dr. C. E. Fleming, Colonel William D. Dawson, Norman E. Flint, Dr. and Mrs. Oliver S., Jr. Day, Adelaide G. Flint, Dr. Oliver S., Jr. Dayvault, Richard Flint, Mrs. Carol M.
De Groot, Dr. Alice Fonger, George C.
De Quoy, General Alfred W. Fornari, Dr. Daniel J. Deliens, Dr. Michel ~ Fosberg, Dr. F. R. Denny, Mrs. Helen C. Foster, Robert A. Dellacasa, Giovanni Francis, Carl
Devries, Philip J. Frankie, Dr. Gordon W.
430 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 440>>>

Franklin, Roland
Frick, Jane
Frost, Dr. John S. Fudali, Dr. Robert F. Gaffigan, Thomas V. Gaines, Dr. Richard V. Galenon, P.
Gallo, Paolo
Gardner, Sue
Garske, Dr. David H. Gaskin, Dr. David E. Gaston, Gary R.
Gatti, Gregg
Gavin, Bill
Gehlbach, Frederick R. Gerk, Arthur Gerstmann, Ewald Gibson, Kenneth E. Gibson, Mrs. Beth Glacon, Dr. Georgette Glanz, Dr. William E. Glass, Elena
Glenn, Murray O. Goldstein, Dr. Robert J. Golubev, Dr. Michael L. Gratz, Dr. John F., Jr. Gray,-PrI-E:
Gray, Richard E. Green, Derek
Grigg, Dr. Richard Gronau, Christian W. Gull, Dan
Gunther, Dr. Lloyd F. Gust, Cynthia
Haag, Hans-Dieter Haas, Tom
Habe, Dr. Tadishige Hall, Dr. Nicholas Halpern, Anne
Hamell, Dr. Richard D. Hand, Dr. Cadet Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr. Hanke, Mrs. Helen Hansen, Dr. Gary Hardy, Dr. Alan R. Harris, Ed
Harris, Rex
Harris, Robert Harrison, Richard V. Hasbrouck, Dr. Frank F. Hasinger, David J. Haskell, Craig
Haskell, Mrs. Mabel Haskin, Dr. George Hatschbach, Dr. G. Hatton, Dr. Christopher Hatton, Lester E., Jr.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 431
Hauck, Richard Hayashi, Dr. Nodoka Hayes, Dr. Guy Hefner, Roger
Helmy, Dr. M. M. Henderson, Edward P. Henry, T. J.
Hentschel, Dr. Gerhard Hepner, Dr. Leon W. Heppner, John B. Hermann, Dr. F. J. Herron, Phil Hespenheide, Dr. Henry Hessler, Dr. Robert R. Hevel, Gary F.
Heyer, W. Ronald Higgins, Dr. John B. Higgins, Dr. Robert P. Hill, Dr. Carol A. Hintze, Dr. Lehi F. Hirsty, Maurice
Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr. Hock, Walter E., Sr. Holms, Dr. Bean L. Hooker, Mrs. James Stewart Hoover, Don
Hope, Dr. W. Duane Hopper, Bruce E. Houbrick, Dr. Richard S. Houser, Mrs. Gertrude Howden, Dr. Henry Howell, Dr. Kim M. Howell, Dr. Thomas Howell, Q. D.
Hronik, Richard Hubricht, Leslie Huckett, Dr. H. C. Hueber, Dr. Francis M. Human, Vernon L. Hurd Dr, PauliD: Jr: Hurlbut, Dr. Cornelius Hurlbut, Henry C. Hutter, Dr. Terry
Ilyin, Mrs. Nadedja Imlay, Dr. Marc Inderbitzin, Mrs. Ann Isaman, Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Jacobs, George J. Jacobs, Jeremy F. Jacobson, R. S.
Jakob, Dr. Hans
Jandy, Edward C. Jarrett, Dr. Alan
Jaxel, Robert
Jenkins, Dr. D. Graham Jensen, Charles M. Jensen, Dr. Lauritz A.

<<<Page: 441>>>

Jensen, Kathe Larson, Ronald J.
Jeremiah, Dr. Clifford Larson, William Jimenez, Dr. Jose Jesus Lattin, Dr. Jack Johansen, Walter E. Laurent, Raymond F. Johnson, Karin Lazzaroni, Vince Johnston, Mrs. Therese Leader, Norman R. Jones, Dr. Meredith L. Leavitt, Charles L., Jr. Jones, Robert E. Leroy, Dr. Duane O. Joy, Mr. and Mrs. Oliver T. Leslie, J. Kahn, Walter Lewis, Dr. Philip A. Kastenbein, Lieutenant Commander Lhungay, Tsering R. William H. Linsley, Dr. Robert Kearns-Preston, Mrs. D. A. Linsley, Professor E. Gorton Keller, Dr. Paul Llewellyn, Mrs. Betty H. Kelley, Richard Lloyd, Brian S. Kemp, Mrs. Ellen S. Lobel, Dr. Phil Kennedy, James H. Logan, Dr. Alan Kiel, Warren J. Lowell, Jack Kier, Dr. Porter M. Lowrie, Dr. O. C. Kilmer, Scott Lynch, James F. Kimball, Charles Lyons, William G. King, Vandall T. Mabry, Frank E. Kingsolver, Dr. John M. MacDonald, John Kinzie, Dr. R. A. MacGinitie, George E. Kirkbride, Dr. Joseph MacGinitie, Nettie Kissinger, Dr. D. G. MacKinnon, Dr. D. Kistner, Dr. David H. MacLean, Dr. William P. Klein, Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Maculay, Julian Street Klose, William F., II Madden, Mrs. Joan C. Knez, Dr. and Mrs. Eugene Maglione, Louis P. Knowlton, Dr. George F. Malone, Leo J. Kohn, Dr. Alan J. Manning, Dr. Raymond B. Kolic, John Manning, James Komov, Serge A. Marcuzzi, Dr. G. Korfmacher, Dr. Stanley D. Margolies, Mrs. Daniel F. Kormilev, Dr. Nicholas A. Markham, Dr. John C. Kornicker, Dr. Louis S. Mars, Charles W. Kornicker, Lance Marshall, Dr. Bruce A. Kozykowski, Bernard Marshall, Elsie Kraft, Wade Marshall, Mr. and Mrs. Joe T., Jr. Kraissl, Mrs. Alice Mason, Dr. Brian H. Krauss Dra Niile ble Mather, Bryant Kristiansen, Roy Matthews, Francis Kullerud, Professor G. Maxson, Dr. Linda Kunkel, Dr. G. McDaniel, Lucky La Bell, Oldric J. McFarland, Dr. Craig Lake, Dr. Robert W. McGhee, The Ambassador Lamar, Bill McGuiness, L. Lamb, Catherine McGuire, Dr. William W. Lamb, Mrs. Gillian N. McKinney, Dr. Ken Lamberson, Janet Mead, Mrs. Rebecca G. Land, Mr. and Mrs. L. K. Medler, Dr. John T. Lanier, Legrande Meese, Norman Larrain, Dr. Alberto P. Meggers, Dr. Betty Larsen, Dr. Arne Rosenkranda Meister, Charles A. Larsen, Ron Meixner, Charles Larson, Dr. David Melanson, Frank
432 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 442>>>

Merrill, Dr. Glen K. Meskimen, Connie Mesnil, Dr. L. P. Messersmith, Dr. Donald H. Metcalf, Dr. Artie L. Metzler, Eric
Miehe, Mrs. Evelyn (Deceased) Miller, Dr. Robert R. Minette, James
Mitchell, Dr. T. B. Montgomery, Dr. Arthur Mopper, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Morris, Walter F., Jr. Morrison, Robert W. Morse, Dr. John C. Morse, Dr. M. Patricia Mossman, Walter Muffley, Richard
Mulaik, Dr. Stanley B. Muller, Dr. Pamela Muzik, Katherine
Nagle, Dr. Ray B.
Nair, N. Balakrishman Natland, Dr. James Negre, Jacques
Nelson, Robert C., Jr. Nicholson, Dr. Dan H. Nigrini, Dr. Catherine Nikas, Dr. A. James, III Niles, Mrs. R. M. O’Brien, Dr. Charles W. O’Neal, William, Jr. Obodda, Herb
Ogden, Dr. James Olaloya, Olatokunbo Olson, Dr. Storrs L. Orloyv,-DrY. L.
Overal, Dr. William L. Palmer, Dr. Marlene Parker, Fred
Patterson, The Honorable and Mrs.
Jefferson Payne, Sebastian Pearson, Dr. David L. Pearson, Mrs. G. Burton, Jr. Peck, Dr. Stewart B. Pederzaniz, F. Peigler, Richard S. Peisley, Vince Penny, Dr. Norman D. Petit, Dr. Richard E. Petuch, Edward J. Peyton, E. L. Phelan, Thomas F. Pickens, Dr. Gordon Pickett, Joseph F., Sr. Pigeon, George
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 433
Pillai Dr. eS:
Pinch, William
Pine, Dr. Ronald H. Pinkerton, Mrs. Mique Pletsch, Dr. Donald Poelchau, Dr. Harald S. Polhemus, John T. Pollack, Joseph A. Ponder, Dr. Winston F. Porter, Dr. James W. Pough, Dr. Frederick H. Puckett, James
Pyburn, William F. Queit, C. S.
Quick, H. E.
Rabor, Dr. Dioscoro S. Ralph; Dr Gs J:
Raske, Dr. Arthur Read, Dr. Peter B. Read, G. B.
Reddell, James Redford, Kent
Reinert, Dr. John F. Relyea, Kenneth Renzo, Dr. Porini Reutzler, Dr. Klaus Reyes, Norman E. Richards, Tim Richerson, Dave Richter, Dr. Conrad B. Ripley, S. Dillon Roback, Dr. S. S. Roberts, Dr. H. Radclyffe Roedder, Dr. Edwin Roger, Dr. David Roper, Dr. Clyde F. E. Rosenblatt, Dr. Richard Rosewater, Dr. Joseph Roth, Barry
Roth, Bernard
Rowat, Stanley H. Rowe, Dr. Gilbert Rowett, Dr. C. L. Rowley, Elmer B.
Ruiz, Maximo Reyero Ruiz-Carranza, Pedro M. Rumpp, Dr. Norman L. Runnels, Curtis N. Ryan, Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Sabado, Professor Marcelino A. Sabrosky, Dr. Curtis W. Sadat, Anwar
Sage, Richard D. Sakurai, Dr. Kinichi Sanders, Dr. Howard Sanford, Steve
Saroop, Hayman

<<<Page: 443>>>

Scheltma, Dr. Rudy Schlepp, Eugene Schmerling, Don Schoelkopf, Robert Scholz, Frederick J. Schooner, Richard Schooner, Robert Schreiber, Henry D. Schultz, Dr. George A. Schuppin, Betsy Schuppin, Michael Schuster, Dr. Guenter Schwartz, Dr. Albert Scott, Whitcomb Randolph, Jr. Seeno, Dr. Terry Sergio, Dr.
Sever, Dr. David M. Severance, William Severin, Kenneth P. Sheppard, Mrs. Martha F. Shinkle, J. G. Shinohara, Akihiko Shweky, Mrs. Amira Siddons, Derek C. Siebert, Lee
Sik, Chong Chun Silberglied, Dr. Robert Simkin, Dr. Tom Simons, Charles Sinclair, Douglas Sixberry, Richard L. Skalski, Richard L. Skiles, Dr. Durward D. Skog, Dr. Laurence Skogland, Mrs. Carol Slocum, John L.
Small, Gordon
Small, Mrs. Jane A. Smith, Dr. Nigel J. H. Smith, David M. Smith, Stephen Soderstrom, Dr. Thomas R. Sorauf, Dr. James E. Spangler, Dr. Paul J. Spencer, Douglas R. Spencer, Jerry Springer, Dr. Victor G. St. Hoyme, Dr. Lucile Stange, A. H. “Brick”, Jr. Stark, Dr. William P. Steadman, David Steiner, Warren Steinhardt, Dr. and Mrs. David Stewart, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, John
Stewart, R. M.
434 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Steyskal, George
Stibolt, Virginia M.
Stock, Dr. Carl W. Stoltzfus, Dr. Bryan Stone, Dr. Jay D. Stornelli, Dr. Leo F. Stump, Dr. Edmund Sturgis, M.
Suchanek, Thomas Sumlin, Dr. William D., III Summers, Ray
Svecz, Robert
Swabe, Richard
Sweeney, Michael J. Swindell, Clyde
Szenics, Terry
Talbot, Dr. James J. Tenery, Dr.
Teskey, Mrs. Margaret Thomas, Dr. Maurice E. Thomas, Dr. Robert A. Thomas, Mrs. Edith H. Thomassin, Dr. Bernard A. Thompson, Dr. Fred G. Thompson, M. E. Thomssen, Richard W. Thorington, Dr. Richard W. Tidwell, Dr. Mac A. Tower, Mrs. Osgood Treadway, Stephen R. Trondle, Jean
Trotter, Dr. Mildred Truedsson, Ake
Tsuneki, Dr. K.
Tunnell, Dr. John W., Jr. Turnbow, Robert H., Jr. Turner, Mr. and Mrs. Milton Tuskes, Dr. Paul Ubelaker, Dr. Douglas Uebelacker, Joan M. Ueno, Dr. Shun-ichi Uhlig, Manfred
Umpress, Michael
Ureta S., Sr. Eduardo J. Van Den Hoven, W.
Warn iitida, Mo 12
Van Velthuizen, Gerry Vandyke, George
Vanin, Dr. Sergio Antonio Vickery, C. L.
Vincent, Mr. and Mrs. David L. Visel, Mrs. Gladys
Vittor, Dr. Barry A. Wallace, Mrs. S. L.
Wals, Dr. Lourens
Walsh, Frances M., Estate of

<<<Page: 444>>>

Ward, Robert D. Wastinga, Dr. E.
Watson, Dr. George E. Watters, Dr. W. A. Weber, Mrs. Charles Webster, Dr. G. D. Wegner, Dr. Gerald S. Wendel, Mrs. G. W. Werner, Tracey K.
West, Dr. David A. Westfall, Douglas M. Westman, Dennis Wetmore, Dr. Alexander Wewalka, Dr. Gunther Wheeler, Dr. Marshall R. Whitaker, Dr. Romulus White, Dr. Graham B. White, John Sampson Whitehead, Dr. Donald R. Whitmore, Dr. Frank C. Wielgus, Ronald S. Wiker, Arlan R. Wilkinson, Leonard John Wilkinson, Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Willever, Donald Williams, Mr. and Mrs. L. T. Williams, Prosper
Donors of Financial Support
Albert M. Alling Edwin G. and Carol Fullinwider Torrence H. MacDonald
Grants Edward John Noble Foundation
Eugene and Agnes Meyer Foundation National Institutes of Mental Health
National Science Foundation
Wilson, Dr. Wendell E.
Wing, Mrs. June S.
Winiarz, Dr. Witold V.
Winters, Mrs. Mary
Wirtz, Peter
Walker, Dr. and Mrs. Egbert H.
Wobber, Don
Wolfe, G. W.
Wolterding, Martin
Womble, Edgar A., Jr.
Wood, Dr. F. E.
Wright, Stephen
Wu, Mr. and Mrs. James
Yampol, Mrs. Florence
Yodh, Dr. Shyam
Young, Dr. Daniel K.
Young, Dr. Frank N.
Young, Dr. Ruth A.
Young, M. E.
Young, Orrey P.
Youngsteadt, Dr. and Mrs. Norman W.
Yount, Victor
Yuthok, Mrs. Dorje
Zekov, Mrs. Galina
Zug, Dr. George R.
Zweibel, Mr. and Mrs. Julius
National Cathedral School Contribution in memory of Dr. Paul Tamarkin
Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey Combined Shows, Inc .
Mr. David G. Skinner
Friends of the National Zoo (These funds were earned by Friends of the National Zoo, according to their provision of public service under contract to
the Smithsonian Institution.)
Donor of Financial Support
Eppley Foundation
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 435

<<<Page: 445>>>

Donors of Financial Support $100 and above
Mr. and Mrs. Hale D. Allen
Mr. Arthur C. Altschul
Mr. and Mrs. Denton Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Wendell W. Anderson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Ash
Ms. Edith M. Aufiero
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Augerson
Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Baker
Mr. and Mrs. Henry deForest Baldwin
Mr. W. N. Banks
Dr. and Mrs. James Bannon
Mr. and Mrs. M. Morton Barak
Mr. and Mrs. J. Addison Bartush
Mrs. James H. Beal
Mr. and Mrs. Sherman Becker
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Benkert
Mrs. James A. Beresford
Mr. and Mrs. James Biddle
Mrs. Anne H. Bing (Bing Fund)
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore D. Birnkrant
Mr. and Mrs. H. Glenn Bixby
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Bloom
Mrs. James Scripps Booth
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman
Mr. Robert M. Brent
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Brown
Mr. J. Lawrence Buell, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph G. Butler
Mr. and Mrs. Howard B. Camden
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin
Mr. Gardner Cowles (Cowles Charitable Trust)
Miss Ruth Cumming
Mr. and Mrs. Keith Davis
Mrs. Amy Dobronyi
Mr. Lawrence F. Du Mouchelle
Mr. and Mrs. Saul H. Dunitz
Mr. and Mrs. S. Allen Early, Jr.
Mrs. Allan D. Emil
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Endicott
Mr. and Mrs. John V. Erickson
Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Estes
Mrs. Aubrey Ettenheimer
Mr. Bayard Ewing .
Mr. and Mrs. Burton D. Farbman
Mrs. W. Rodman Fay
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Fine
436 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred J. Fisher III
Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Fisher
The Janet and Mortimer Fleishhacker Foundation
Mrs. Frederick C. Ford, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. K. G. Frank
Mrs. J. Wayne Fredericks
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall M. Fredericks
Mrs. John S. French
Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Friedman
Miss Elizabeth Fuller
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Gilman Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Howard Gilman
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Glen
Mr. and Mrs. Seth M. Glickenhaus
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Gorelick
Mr. Alan L. Gornick
Mr. and Mrs. William T. Gossett
Mr. Charles M. Grace
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Hamburger
Mr. Joseph Hardy
Dr. and Mrs. Reginald Harnett
Mrs. Robert G. Hartwick
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Hickman
Mrs. Dorothy Hirshon
Mrs. George C. Hixon
Mrs. Charles Lamson Hoffman
Mr. Mark Hoffman
Mrs. Kempf Hogan
Mrs. Augusta Jacobson Hoiles
Mrs. Grace Garden Hooker
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Hoover
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Horn II
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz
Dr. and Mrs. J. Stewart Hudson
Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings
Mr. and Mrs. James Humphrey III
IBM Corp., Graphic Design
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Irving
Mrs. Harrison Ivancovich
Dr. and Mrs. David Jacknow
Mrs. Virginia W. Kampf
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Karbal
Dr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Karlan
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Karpel

<<<Page: 446>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Katzman
Mr. and Mrs. James O. Keene
Mr. and Mrs. Martin A. Kellman
Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Koenigsberg
Mr. Nate Krause
Mr. Hugo Krave
Mr. Peter Kriendler
Mrs. Roger Kyes
Dr. William A. Lange
Mr. and Mrs. Rodney M. Layton
Mr. Rensselaer W. Lee
Mr. Arthur D. Leidesdorf
Dr. and Mrs. I. H. Leopold
Mrs. Lenord Levine
Mr. and Mrs. Louis M. Loeb
Mr. and Mrs. Harold O. Love
Mr. Melvis T. Lowrance
Mr. Earle Ludgin
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes
The Lachaise Foundation
Mr. David Hunter McAlpin
Mr. James T. McKay
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh McMillan
Mrs. Elizabeth H. Maddux
Mrs. Robert A. Magowan
Mr. Gunnar Maske
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam
Drs. Paul and Laura Mesaros
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Department of American Painting and Sculpture
Mr. Byron R. Meyer
Mrs. Barbara B. Millhouse
Mr. and Mrs. Irving J. Minett
Mr. and Mrs. A. Minowitz
Mrs. Carleton Mitchell
Dr. and Mrs. Coleman Mopper
Mrs. Juana Mordo
Mr. and Mrs. T. A. Murphy
Mrs. Lillian R. Muss
Mrs. Harry J. Nederlander
Mrs. Eldo Netto
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger
Mr. John C. Nicholls, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oroshnik
Mr. Alfonso A. Ossorio
Mrs. Lawrence Ottinger
The Pace Gallery of New York, Inc.
Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Pastor
Mr. and Mrs. H. Lynn Pierson
Dr. Harold Plotnick
The Honorable and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky
Mr. and Mrs. M. P. Potamkin
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Radom
Albert B. and Faye Ratner
Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord
Mrs. James A. Rawley
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond
Mr. Raphael Recanati
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Richardson
Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley
Drs. Ulrich O. and Barbara Ringwald
Mr. and Mrs. C. David Robinson
Mr. David Rockefeller
Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, 3rd
Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller
Dr. and Mrs. Michael E. Rollins
Mrs. William F. Rosenblum
Mrs. Medeleine H. Russell
Mr. Lewis J. Sappington
Dr. Charles A. Sarnoff
Dr. Ivan C. Schatten
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Sharf
Mr. and Mrs. Alger Shelden
Mrs. Allan Sheldon III
Mr. and Mrs. George Simon
Mr. Stephen Sloan
The George M. and Mabel H. Slocum Foundation
Mrs. J. Scott Smart
Mr. James Avery Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Emmett G. Solomon
Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest P. Spear
Mrs. Girard Spencer
Mr. and Mrs. Roy W. Stevens
Mr. Stanford C. Stoddard
Mr. Philip A. Straus
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Stroh
Mr. Emanuel Sulkes
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig
Mr. Eugene Victor Thaw
Mr. and Mrs. Carsten Tiedeman
Mrs. Louis Tishman
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend
Mrs. Hooper Truettner
Mrs. Nion Tucker
Mrs. Helen Urban
Mr. Adele Volpe
Miss Berta Walker
Mr. C. Carter Walker, Jr.
Mrs. Hudson D. Walker
Ms. Suzanne Walker
Mr. Edward M. M. Warburg
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein
Mr. Jerome Westheimer
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Wollenzin, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence J. Woodward
Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward
Mr. and Mrs. LeRoy H. Wulfmeier, III
Mr. Nicholas Wyeth
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Young, Jr.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 437

<<<Page: 447>>>

$500 and above
Mrs. Emil Bisttram
Mrs. Rena Bransten
Mrs. David R. C. Brown
Mrs. Helen R. Bush
Mrs. William Gilmor Costin
Mrs. Edward S. Cook
Mrs. Chester Dale
Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. de Guigne
Mrs. Maria Mercedes de Medina
Mrs. Albert de Salle
Mrs. Daniel J. Donahoe III
Mr. James F. Duffy, Jr.
George R. and Elise M. Fink Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. L. A. Fleischman
William and Martha Ford Fund
Mrs. Helena Fraser
Mr. David L. Gamble
Mrs. Leigh Gerdine
Mrs. J. L. Goodwin
Mrs. A. B. Hargrave
$1000 and above
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce The Bundy Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton H. E. Butt Grocery Co.
Mr. and Mrs. Joshua Binion Cahn The Cain Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. George L. Carlson Mrs. Lucile Daum
Mrs. H. H. Dewar
Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz The Fondren Foundation Benson and Edith Ford Fund Walter and Josephine Ford Fund Gilman Foundation Inc.
Mrs. Bernard F. Gimbel
Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goldberg Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mr. and Mrs. Carleton C. Hascall, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn Hobby Foundation
$5000 and above The Ewing Halsell Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney
$10,000 and above
The Brown Foundation, Inc. Robert J. Kleberg, Jr., and Helen C. Kleberg Foundation
438 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Miss Milka Iconomoff Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Johnson Mr. and Mrs. John S. Judd
(The Lyon Foundation) Kennedy Galleries, Inc. Mrs. Carmen Lacoppidan Mr. and Mrs. Philip S. Lawrence Mr. and Mrs. Karl A. Limbach Mrs. Marian B. Luchs Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Mrs. Henry Pearlman Mrs. Herbert Polacheck Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal, Jr. Mrs. Roslyn Rubin Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Schoenith Mrs. A. A. Seeligson Mr. Stephen Shalom Mrs. Louise Talbot Trigg Mrs. Hooper Truettner Mrs. Samuel H. Wolcott
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Winslow Jones
Mrs. Ann J. Light
Howard and Jean Lipman Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney
Mr. and Mrs. Tom F. Marsh
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller
Mrs. Edwin Meredith
Mrs. William A. Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin
Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer
Mr. and Mrs. Carl L. Selden
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Smits
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Straus
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks Walker, Jr.
Mrs. Claire Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore N. Law Sid W. Richardson Foundation
Mr. Richard Manoogian The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

<<<Page: 448>>>

Donors to the Collections
Elfride Abbe
Ansel Adams
Lee Adler
William G. Allan Edmond R. Amateis American Antiquarian Society Winslow Ames Architectural League of New York John Ashbery
Robert W. Ashbrook Elizabeth Baldwin Joellen Bard
Will Barnet
Don Baum
Nathaly Baum
Dennis Beall
Esther Bear
Romare Bearden
Sylvia Marlowe Berman Theresa Bernstein
Clara G. Binswanger Isabell Bishop
Peter Blanc
Vernon Bobbitt
Mrs. Arthur Bohnen Louis Bosa
Dorr Bothwell
Nancy Douglas Bowditch Mrs. Fredson Bowers Anne Brigadier
Judith S. Brown
Mrs. Byron Browne Rosalind Bengelsdorf Browne Wilbur Herbert Burnham, Jr. Dr. Irving F. Burton Alexander Byer
Charles Byrne
Lawrence Calcagno William H. Calfee Norman Carton
Gaetano Cecere
Arnold Chanin
Michael Church
Mina Citron
John Clancy
Sylvan Cole
Mrs. Louise Connaway George Constant
Robert Cook
Mrs. F. duPont Cornelius Ruth Cravath
Mrs. Peter Curtis
Joyce and Arthur Dahl David E. Davis
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 439
Mr. Allison Delarue William Dole Marilyn Dorato Linda Downs Ruth Duckworth George Dworzan Jack Eastman William J. Eisenlord Valerie Eldridge Paula Eliasoph Ronnie Elliott Edith Emerson Roxanne Everett Gerald L. Fabian S. Lane Faison, Jr. Richard Faralla Mrs. James Feeney Elly Fleischmann Mrs. Joseph Floch Ruth Fortel
Peter Frank Mallory Freeman Mark Freeman Penelope Fried Kenneth Friedman Eugenie Gershoy Ruth Gikow Elizabeth Hamm Glass Lloyd Lozés Goff Leon Golub Donald B. Gooch Lloyd Goodrich Jack Greenbaum Juanita Guccione
The Reverend and Mrs. Samuel Hale
Beverly Hallam
Nathan Halper
Juliette Hamelecourt Walker Kirtland Hancock Agnes Hart
Cleo Hartwig
Anne Helioff
Katherine Thayer Hobson Paul Hollister
Charles B. Hosmer
Ruth M. Huston
Eric Isenburg
Barbara Ivins
C. Paul Jennewein
Judith Clancy Johns
John L. Jones
Constance Kane
Martha Kantor
Bernard Kassoy

<<<Page: 449>>>

Karl Kasten
Helen B. Keen
Greta Kempton William King
Svea Kline
J. Wilhelm Kluver James Harold Koch Mina Kocherthaler Mary Mintz Koffler Albert Kotin
Brenda Kuhn Katherine Tubman LaFleur Hedy Backlin Landman Martyl Langsdorf
Mrs. Gean Lawler Michael Lekakis
Jack Levine
Mrs. Marsden London Mrs. Rupert Lovejoy Ruth Ludlow
Lillian MacKendrick Peppino Mangravite Aladar Marberger Marcia Marcus Herbert Maril
Bena Frank Mayer Ralph Mayer
Conger A. Metcalf William Meyerowitz Sarah Midgette
Cyril Aronson Miles Jeanne Miles
Richard Kidwell Miller Samuel Miller
Herbert Molner
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Moore Robert Morgan Liselotte Moser
Jan Muhlert
David Nellis
Mrs. Barnett Newman Helen Newman Natalie Nolan Elizabeth Olds
Phillip Pearlstein Gordon F. Peers Michael Peirce
Nata Piaskowski Elinor Poindexter Queens College Library Ethel B. Rabin
Perry T. Rathbone Irina Reed
Mrs. Gordon V. K. Reid Katherine B. Reynolds Carl Rieser
440 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Neal Richmond
Mr. and Mrs. Hugo Robus, Jr. Lenore Ross
Antonio Salemme Emilio Sanchez
Angelo Savelli
Ernest Scan2s
William E. Schremp Mrs. Anton Schutz Dorothy Seckler
Mrs. Germain Seligman Bernard Simon
Nell Sinton
Miriam Tane Siporin Mary-Leigh Smark Franklin R. Smith Charles C. Squires
Jack W. Stauffacher Ursula Stechow
George L. Stout Marjorie Strider
Muriel P. Strout Charles Strong
Jane Bouché Strong Mrs. Frederick Sturges III Katherine Sergava Szyncer Toshiko Takaezu Prentiss Taylor
Allen Townsend Terrell Mrs. Evan Thomas Helen Thomas
Isabel Thorp
Julius Tobias
Mrs. Paul Travis
Joyce Treiman
DeWain Valentine
The Reverend Ernest D. Vanderburgh Dorothy Varian Thomas K. Vasey
Ruth Vodicka
Sidney Waintrob
Sylvia Wald
Ruth Washawsky
Toan Washburn
Mrs. Herman Wechsler Wesley Wehr
Anita Weschler
Nelson C. White Whitney Museum William Whitney
Brian Withers
Beatrice Wood
Mireille Wood
Hale Woodruff
Clifford Young
Wendell F. Zoehler

<<<Page: 450>>>

Donors of Financial Support
$500 and above
Steven Sloan Spring Mills Paul F. Stiga
$1,000 and above Barker Welfare Foundation
Bayerische Hypo and Wechselbank
Edith C. Blum Foundation Claus Von Bulow
City University of New York Mr. and Mrs. John Corroon Priscilla Cunningham
The D. M. C. Corporation
De Menil Foundation Embroidery Council of America Goethe House
Gordon Gund
Sally Faile Jeancon
$10,000 and above
Anonymous
Mrs. Helen Buckner
T. M. Evans Foundation
Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust The J. M. Kaplan Fund
Karen Johnson Keland
Samuel A. Kress Foundation
Benefactors CORPORATE SPONSORS
Brunschwig & Fils, Inc. Conde Nast Publications, Inc. Deskey Associates, Inc.
Ms. Betsy Babcock
Mrs. Neville J. Booker
Mrs. Helen W. Buckner
Mr. Howard Gilman
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt
Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Heinz II Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Jeancon Mr. Philip C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Brush Mr. and Mrs. John Kunstadter
Mr. and Mrs. Hubert T. Mandeville
Mrs. Werner Abegg Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Burnett
Philip Johnson
Ruth Cole Kainen
Karen Henrietta Keland Lushan Foundation
Monet Jewelers
Ohrstrom Foundation Jacqueline Rea
Helena Rubenstein Foundation Charles E. Sampson Memorial Mrs. Celia Siegel
Smithsonian Associates Robert Tobin
Union Bank of Bavaria
Milliken Foundation
New York Community Trust
New York State Council on the Arts Arthur Ross
Urban Mass Transit Authority
Ralph J. Weiler Foundation
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill Stavropoulos Corp. W. & J. Sloane, Inc.
Ms. Andrea K. Keland
Ms. Karen Johnson Keland Mr. Laurence E. Korwin
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Lauder Mrs. Howard J. Sachs
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Salomon Mr. Bernard Selz
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Thaw Miss Alice Tully
Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger Mr. and Mrs. Claus Von Bulow
Mrs. Arthur G. Cohen Ms. Priscilla Cunningham
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 441

<<<Page: 451>>>

Jane Albert Studios, Inc—Mr. John Sacks
Mr. Frederick R. Koch
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Kreizel
Mr. Ben Meiselman
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Nelson Pharr
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Adler
Mr. Christopher Adlington
Mr. and Mrs. Hale R. Allen
Amicus Foundation—Mr. Leigh Weiner
Mr. and Mrs. C. Minot Amory
Mr. Carl Andre
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Annenberg
Atelier International, Ltd.
Mr. Joseph Avvocato
Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Baker
Mr. Jonathan Barnett
Miss Evelyn S. Behrens
Mr. and Mrs. Jay I. Bennett
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Bernstein
Mr. John Betts
Mrs. Harry Payne Bingham
Mr. Howard M. Bloch
Mr. and Mrs. R. Wallace Bowman
Mr. Hugh M. Boyer
Mrs. George E. Brewer
Mr. Mario Buatta
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Burlingham
Mr. David Richmond Byers III
Mr. and Mrs. Miles Cahn—Coach Leatherware
Mrs. John Chancellor
Mr. L. Peter Cogan
Mrs. Arthur G. Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Cohn
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin
Miss Quintina Colio
Mrs. S. Barclay Colt
Mr. Henry B. Cortesi
Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles
Dr. Denton Sayer Cox
Mr. John Cronin
Mrs. Joan Cullman
Mr. Nathan Cummings
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Dale
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Dante III
Mrs. Joan K. Davidson
Ms. Mary Davis
Mrs. Marie-Christophe De Menil
The Honorable and Mrs. Douglas Dillon
Mrs. Elizabeth K. Dollard
Mrs. Albert Douglas
Mrs. Joanne DuPont
442 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Ms. Sandra L. Read
Mr. and Mrs. Donald S. Rice Mr. Robin Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Rodgers Miss Mary Schiefflin
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Wolf
Mr. Eldon Elder
Mr. Scott C. Elliott
Richard and Rebbeca Evans Foundation
Fante Merchandise, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald M. Feuerstein
Ms. Candace Fischer
Mr. Richard Fitzgerald
Mr. W. James Futterman
Dr. and Mrs. Mario L. Giampe
Ms. Marion L. Gibbons
Mr. Howard Gilman
Mrs. Bernard T. Gimbel
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Globus
Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goldberg
Mr. and Mrs. William T. Golden
Mr. and Mrs. Lucien Goldschmidt
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Greenberg
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Griner
Ms. Olga Gueft
Mr. Albert Hadley
Mrs. Francis Head
Mrs. Nugent Head
Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Henningsen
Ms. Cecelia Hildebrandt
Mr. and Mrs. C. Hugh Hildesley
Mr. and Mrs. Dustin Hoffman
Mrs. Hans J. Hoffman
Mr. and Mrs. Dewitt Hornor
Miss Josephine C. Howell
Ms. Nina Hughes
Ms. Paula D. Hughes
Mr. and Mrs. John Jakobson
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Jones
Mrs. Jay Bernard Joseph
Mrs. Faie Jarmel Joyce
Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Kahn, Jr.
Mrs. Liselotte Kahn
Mr. Gershon Kekst
Mrs. Francis Kernan
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Kimmelman
Mr. and Mrs. William Kissiloff
Mr. Calvin Klein
Mr. R. M. Kliment
Mr. Laurence E. Korwin
Ms. June Kraft
Mr. and Mrs. Louis V. Krall
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Kreizel

<<<Page: 452>>>

Mrs. Nancy Evans Kruger Mr. and Mrs. John Kunstadter Mrs. William F. Lamb Mr. Max Landau Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Landsman Mr. Jack Lenor Larsen Mr. and Mrs. Leonard A. Lauder Mrs. Stephanie Lebowitz Mr. and Mrs. John Quong Lee Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Lesley Dr. Marjorie Lewisohn Mrs. Dita N. Leyland Mr. Harold F. Linder Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Lipkins Mrs. Ellen L. Long Mr. and Mrs. Mathew Love Mrs. Edith W. MacGuire Mr. James C. Marlas Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller Mrs. Flagler Matthews Mrs. Vera Maxwell Mr. and Mrs. Myron Mayer Mr. and Mrs. F. H. McAdoo McMillen, Inc.—Mrs. A. M. Brown Mrs. Joseph V. McMullan Mrs. Patricia Meister Mrs. E. J. Meredith Mr. and Mrs. Harry Meresman Mrs. Lu Esther T. Mertz Ms. Pauline Metcalf Mr. M. A. Meyer Ms. Elizabeth Miller Mr. William Milliken Mr. William Monaghan and
Ms. Gail Marius Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Montgomery Mrs. Marion K. Morgan Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Moss Mr. and Mrs. Winthrop R. Munyan Mr. Jon Alan Nagel Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Newhouse Mrs. Betty Newmark Mr. and Mrs. Elliott S. Nichols Mrs. P. R. Norman Mr. and Mrs. Braham Norwick Mrs. Eliot Noyes Mr. and Mrs. Elliot M. Ogden, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Donald Oresman Pamela Banker, Inc. Mrs. David S. Patterson Mrs. J. C. Penney Mrs. George W. Perkins Mr. G. Daniel Perry and
Ms. Georgia Asher Mr. Louis H. Pfohl Mr. and Mrs. DiGeorge Phillippi
Miss Mary Walker Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. Max Pine
Mr. and Mrs. Myron B. Poloner
The Honorable and Mrs. Leon Polsky
Mr. and Mrs. George S. Rattner
Mr. and Mrs. Milton S. Rattner
Mrs. Elaine Reiner
Mrs. Bernice Richard
Mrs. Kit Robbins
Mrs. Ann Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Robinson
Mrs. Barbara Rockefeller
Mr. Arthur Ross
Mr. and Mrs. Derald H. Ruttenberg
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Saladino
Mr. Emilio Sanchez
Mr. Albert Sanders
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert D. Schimmel
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Schluger
Mr. Barry Scott
Mr. Martin Segal
Mr. Melvin R. Seiden
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney B. Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Simon
Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Sloan
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Sloan
Ms. Constance H. Smith
Mr. Gregory B. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. W. Mason Smith
Mrs. Esther D. Snyder
Ms. Marion Scheuer Sofaer
Mr. Steven Sokoloff
Mrs. Sidney R. Solomon
Ms. Shirley Spain
Mr. Ira Spanierman
Mr. Frederick Stafford
Mr. Daniel Stark— WestPoint Pepperell
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Stevenson
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald G. Stiebel
Mr. Paul F. Stiga
Mrs. Emily C. Stillman
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Stover
Mrs. Linden Stuart
Mrs. Sarah Sullivan
Mrs. Simone Swan
Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III
Mr. and Mrs. Williard B. Taylor
Mr. and Mrs. Emmanuel Theodoredis
Mr. David M. Tobey
Ms. Pauline Trigere
Tulnoy Lumber, Inc.
Mrs. Gerit Van De Bovenkamp
Mrs. Edward Van Lier
Mr. Carleton Varney
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Vietor
Mrs. Eleanor S. Wallstein
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 443

<<<Page: 453>>>

Mr. Walter Phelps Warren
Mr. and Mrs. Jack G. Wasserman Mr. and Mrs. Philip P. Weisberg Ms. Polaire Weissman
Mr. Ward Bennett
Mr. Peter Cannizarro
Dr. and Mrs. William J. Collis Mrs. Lamott DuPont Copeland Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon Ms. Joanne Creveling
Mrs. John DeMenil
Miss Ann Dreyfuss
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Dreyfuss Mr. and Mrs. German H. Emory Mr. Donald Gratz
Mrs. Janet Hooker
Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kaplan
Mr. Edgar F. Kaufman
Donors of Works of Art
Mrs. Christian H. Aall Mr. Paul Afferiat
Mr. Gerald Allen
Dr. Herman S. Alpert
Mr. James Amster
Mr. Eric Andersen
Mr. Carl Andre
Mr. Gabor Attalai
Mr. Randy Barcelo
Mr. Jonathan Barnett
Mr. Stanley Barrows
Mr. and Mrs. Nat Bass Mr. Robert Beauchamp Mr. Billy Al Bengston
Mr. David Benn
Mrs. William Augustus Bleeker Mr. J. B. Blom
Mr. Peter Max Bode
Ms. Denise Bouche
Mr. Joseph Braswell Bray-Schaible Design
Ms. Carol Brener
Mr. Stephen W. Brener Mr. Robert Delford Brown Mr. Mario Buatta
Mr. Art Buchwald
Mr. Noah L. Butkin
Mr. and Mrs. David Caccamo Ms. Xenia Cage
Mr. Antonio Calderone Mr. Edward Callahan
Mr. and Mrs. Allessandro Carlini Mr. Thomas Carnase
Ms. Nancy Carter
444 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mrs. John C. White Mr. and Mrs. Francis H. Williams Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Zeller
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Koshland Mrs. Phyllis Lambert
Mr. Joseph L. Lander
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Lapham Mr. and Mrs. Robert Massar Mr. and Mrs. William Mathers Mr. Ken Miller
Mrs. Margaret Carnegie Miller Mr. and Mrs. John Mudd Prof. James Prestini
Mrs. Margaret S. Robinson Mrs. Celia Siegal
Mrs. Gail Wilson
Mr. Henry Wolf
Mr. Michael Casey
Mrs. Juliett Castle
Ms. Barbara Chancellor Mr. Ivan Chermayeff Mr. Michael Christiano Mr. F. E. Church
Mr. Albino Cimonetti Mr. Christopher Clapp Ms. Jane Clark
Mr. Michael Clark
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Collins Ms. Virginia Conder Mr. William Conklin Mrs. Rosemary Corroon Mr. Jay Crawford
Mr. Theo Crosby Dadamaino
Mrs. Paul Dahlstrom Mr. Reuben de Saavedra Mr. Karl Deiler
Mr. Hugo DeMarco
Mr. Dino di Gerlando Miss Ann Dreyfuss
Mr. John Dreyfuss
Mr. David Easton
Mrs. Susanna Ebendorf Mrs. Mamie Eisenhower Mr. Edward Fella
Ms. Julie Finch
Mr. Jean-Michel Folon Mr. Vincent Fourcade Mrs. Catherine Frangiamore Ms. Helen Frankenthaler Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Freund

<<<Page: 454>>>

Mr. Shigeo Fukuda Mrs. Sabina Gatheral Mr. Jochen Gerz
Mr. Milton Glaser
Mr. David Glickman Ms. Dorothy Globus Mr. Keith Godard
Mr. Jeremiah Goodman Mr. Jerome W. Gratenstein Ms. Jonnie Greene
Mr. Murray Grigor
Mr. Lawrence Halprin Ms. Frances Halsband Halston
Mr. Mark Hampton Mr. William J. Harrison Mrs. Kitty Carlisle Hart Mrs. Francis Head
Mr. George Heinrichs Ms. Lillian Hellman Mr. Kevin Hemmings Mr. Ron Herron
Ms. Helena Hirnmark Ms. Haley Hodnett
Mr. Anders Holmquist Mr. and Mrs. John Hope Mr. DeWitt Hornor Ms. Amy Horowitz
Mr. P. Horst
Ms. Joyce Hullinger Mr. Richard Hunnings
Mr. Robert Dinsmore Huntington International Contract Furnishings,
Inc. Mr. Al Jarnow Mr. Ray Johnson Mr. Donald Junkins Mr. Vladimir Kagan Mrs. Ely Jacques Kahn Mr. Jacob Kainen Mr. Hubert Kaufman Ms. Moya King Mr. Miroslav Klivar Mr. Edward Koren Mr. Irving Kriesbergh Ms. Jennifer C. Kruger Mrs. Martha Landman Mr. Michael Lax Mr. Samuel Lebowitz Mr. and Mrs. John W. Lennon Mr. Les Levine Mr. Ted Liebman Mr. Wallace Litwin Mr. Raymond Loewy Mrs. Maureen Lord Mr. Sven Lund Ms. Edith MacGuire
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 445
Mr. Wallop Magnum Mrs. Maliheh Mahhouk Mr. Victor Margolin Mr. J. L. Marlas
Ms. Vera Maxwell
Mr. Joseph McCrindle Mr. McDonough
Mrs. Harry M. McLeod McMillen, Inc.
Ms. Moira Megargee Mr. Samuel Menashe Miss Elinore Merrell Mr. Robert Metzger Mr. Eugene Mihaesco Mrs. Margaret Carnegie Miller Mr. Roswell Miller
Mr. William Miller
Mr. Patrick Moerell Ms. Gillian Moss
Mrs. Madeleine Huntington Murdock
Mr. John C. Murphy Mr. Richard Lowell Neas Ms. Janet Needham-McCaffrey Ms. Madeline Kahn Nelinson Mr. Lowell Nesbitt
Mr. Richard Oliver
Mr. Robert Osborn
Mr. J. Owczarek
Mr. William Pahlmann Mr. David Payne
Mr. Henry Pearson
Ms. Lynn Peterfreund Mr. Peter Plagens
Mrs. Caroline B. Reeves Mr. James W. Rhodes Mr. John Rieck
Mr. Christian Rohlfing St. Regis-Sheraton Hotel Mr. John Saladino
Ms. Lorraine Scheckter Mr. Ed Schlossberg
Mrs. Helen Scholz
Mr. Vincent Scilla
Mr. Artie Shaw
Mr. Rodrigo Shopis
Mrs. Selig J. Silverman Ms. Sylvia Sleigh
Ms. Liz Smith
Ms. Sheila Smith
Mr. Peter Smithson
Mrs. Donald P. Spence Mr. Peter Stambourg Mrs. Helen Stanbury
Ms. Lucy C. Stark
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Stein Dr. Calvin W. Stillman Ms. Emily C. Stillman

<<<Page: 455>>>

Mr. William Sweeny
Mr. Edgar Tafel
Mr. Bertrand L. Taylor
Ms. Laurie Taylor
Ms. Lisa Taylor
Mrs. Marietta Peabody Tree Mrs. Arthur William Ufland Mr. O. M. Ungers
Mr. Carleton Varney Venturi and Rauch
Mr. Inver Villefrance
1978 Benefit Auction
Edward J. Agostini, Principal Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, P. C—Architects
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Belfer
Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell B. Booth
Mrs. Archibald M. Brown
Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.
Mr. Mario Buatta
Mrs. Cass Canfield, Jr.
Mr. Oleg Cassini
Mr. and Mrs. Sackett Barclay Colt
Dr. Denton Sayer Cox
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Dale, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Ron Dante
Mrs. Joan K. Davidson
Mrs. Elizabeth de Cuevas
The Design Works of Bedford Stuyvesant
Mr. and Mrs. Albert I. Edelman
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans
Mrs. A. Grant Fordyce
Doris and Alan Freedman
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
Nina Hughes, ASID
Mrs. Kenneth A. Ives
Mr. Richard W. Jones, FASID
Mr. Arthur G. Altschul Atelier International, Ltd. Mrs. Isabel H. Ault
Mr. Robert T. Bonn
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Bookshin Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Bunshaft Mrs. Priscilla Cunningham Mrs. Walter G. Dunnington Mrs. Charles W. Engelhard Mr. Kenneth L. Everett
Mr. and Mrs. Martin D. Fife Mr. and Mrs. Bert Freidus
446 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Ms. Diana Vreeland Mrs. Clara Waldeck Mr. Scott Wallace Wallpaper Information Bureau Mr. Doug Warner Mr. John J. Waterman Mr. Lynton Wells Mrs. Gail Wilson
F. W. Woolworth Co. Ms. Susan Yelavich Mrs. Joseph E. Zajac
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan
Mrs. Karen Johnson Keland
Mrs. Francis Kettaneh
Mr. Lawrence Korwin
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Lauder
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Luce III
Mr. and Mrs. Nino Luciano
Mrs. Vera Maxwell
Christophe de Menil
Mrs. Stanley R. Miller
Mr. Lee Nordess
Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom
Parish-Hadley, Inc.
Provence Antiques
Mr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Princess Alexander Romanoff
Mrs. Howard J. Sachs
Mr. Alan T. Schumacher
Talbot Shelton
Mr. Alan B. Slifka
Mary Belle Sullivan
Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor II]
Mr. and Mrs. Angus Lightfoot Walker
Mrs. Orme Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Wolf
Trina Hidalgo
Rebecca A. House
Mrs. W. T. Hughes, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Kar
Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Ketcham, Jr. Kevin McNamara, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Kimmelman Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Kreizel Phyllis Lambert
Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer Levitt Mr. and Mrs. Simon Lissim
Mr. and Mrs. Allen I. Marx

<<<Page: 456>>>

Maurice Weir Associates, Inc. Mrs. Joseph V. McMullan
Mr. Robert Metzger
Mr. Matthew A. Meyer
Mr. and Mrs. F. Franklin Moon Ruth Mueller
Patterson, Flynn & Martin, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Miles Pennybacker Miss Mary Walker Phillips Mrs. Samuel P. Reed
Mr. and Mrs. David Ritter
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Rowan Dean George Sadek
Mr. Frederick G. Schab
Dr. and Mrs. Walter N. Scott
Mrs. Ita Aber
Andy Warhol Enterprises, Inc. Associated American Artists Atelier International, Ltd. Bill and Susanna Baird
Mrs. Brenda Baldwin Bedford Green Antiques Miss Alice Beer
Mrs. Bernard Berman
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert C. Bernard Ms. Virginia Berresford
Mr. Robert G. Berry
Doris Leslie Blau
Mrs. George Booth
Mr. Benno Bordiga
Boris, Inc.
Peggy Bowart
Mrs. Voorhis Brainard
Mr. Richard L. Brecker
Mrs. George E. Brewer
Mrs. Archibald M. Brown Brunschwig and Fils, Inc. Mrs. Roger Brunschwig
Mr. Mario Buatta
Bulgari
Dr. and Mrs. Lester R. Cahn Carleton V., Ltd.
Bonnie Cashin
Cavallon Associates, Inc. Mrs. Sylvia Chandler Charles R. Gracie & Sons, Inc. Chelsea Antiques, Inc.
Mrs. Frederick R. Childs Mr. Jeffrey S. Childs
J. S. Childs & Co.
Estate of Fanet Chutjian Clarence House
Mrs. Carmel J. Cohen
Miss Quintina Colio
Elizabeth Gilmore Shaw
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Perkman Shaw Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Stafford Mr. and Mrs. George Stavropoulos Mr. Norman T. Turkish
Patricia S. Vaill
Mrs. Edward van Lier
Mr. and Mrs. Rynhard Van Tets Gerda and George Walling
Dr. and Mrs. Herbert N. Weber Mr. and Mrs. A. Weiner
Polaire Weissman
Miss Nancy White
Jacqueline L. Young
Joanne Cooper—Peter M Design Studio Mr. Nathan Cummings Mrs. Russell W. Davenport Davis & Long Gallery David Weiss Importers, Inc. Robert Denning and Vincent Fourcade, Inc. Mrs. Barbara C. Deutsch Devenish & Co. Diane Love Mrs. John A. Dietz Mr. and Mrs. Roger D. Ditman Mr. Angelo Donghia Mrs. George Draper Dwork/Maguire, Incorporated Mr. and Mrs. W. Coleman Edgar The Elements Mrs. Sandra Canning Feigen Mrs. Nereo Fioratti Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald Florian Papp, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Flynn Mr. and Mrs. James H. Fogelson Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Freund Audrey Friedman Mr. and Mrs. David J. Friedman The Ghiordian Knot, Ltd, and Dr. and Mrs. Elias Sedlin Debbie Gioello and David T. Novick Mr. and Mrs. Yves Gonnet Gordon Bishop International, Ltd. Gordon Foster Antiques & Accessories Graham Gallery Mr. Jerome Gratenstein Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Greenberg Roger and Jonnie Greene Miss Tammy Grimes Grosvenor Gallery
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 447

<<<Page: 457>>>

Miss Dona Guimaraes Patterson-Piazza
Mr. R. Eric Gustafson Mr. Ted Peckham
Mr. Richard Hare Mrs. Sally Pepper
Mr. John Davis Hatch Jane Perrin
Mrs. Enid Haupt Mr. Edward Grover Platt, Jr.
Mr. Kirk Henckels Miss Mary Jane Pool
Mr. Stanley Herzman Price Glover Antiques
Mr. Frederick D. Hill Les Prismatiques
Hinson & Company Quadrille
House of Hite, Inc. Ralph M. Chait Galleries
Howard Kaplan Country French Alexander R. Raydon Antiques R. E. S. Manufacturing
Mrs. Henry Ittleson, Jr. Mr. John Rieck
Jack Soskin Associates, Inc. Robert K. Lewis Associates, Inc.
J. Allen Murphy & Associates, Inc. Mr. William Robertson
Cecile Johnson, A.W.S. Governor and Mrs. Nelson A.
Jones and Erwin, Inc. Rockefeller
Mrs. Faie J. Joyce Mr. George Rodriquez
J. P. Stevens & Co. Joseph Rondina
Julian Pretto Gallery Roundtree, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan Christine Roussel
Mr. Theodore Kaplan Mr. and Mrs. Matthew N. Rubinstein
Karl Springer, Ltd. Ruth Hubbell Interiors
The Honorable and Mrs. Francis L. Mrs. Howard J. Sachs Kellogg Miss Edwina Sandys
Kenmore Carpet Co. Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Sarnoff
Katharine Kosmak Schumacher
Kruger Gallery, Inc. Helen Dimos Schwindt
Mrs. William F. Lamb Seaman Schepps
Mrs. Reginald Lanier Mr. Bernard Selz
Mr. Jack Lenor Larsen Mr. Michael Shamilzadeh
Ms. Fern Letnes Mr. Nathan Royce Silverstein
Lillian Nassau Rita Simon
Mrs. Denise Linden Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Simon
Lorin Marsh, Ltd. Mr. Stephen Sloan
Lucien Goldschmidt, Inc. Mr. Gregory B. Smith
The Manhattan Galleries Ira Spanierman
Mrs. Seabury Marsh Mr. Stephen Spector
Matthew Schutz, Ltd. Lydia P. Speir
Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Mayor Mrs. Albert Stanbury
Mrs. Vera Maxwell Mrs. Rex Stark
Mr. and Mrs. Robert McKinney Stark Carpet Corp.
Mrs. Harry M. McLeod Mr. Sandy Starkman
Garvin J. Mecking Mr. Garrick Stephenson
Elinor Merrell Mme. Alice Stern
Mr. Robert Metzger Stroheim & Romann
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Milbauer Mrs. Charles Stroud
The Millbrook Antique Shop Mr. Dalmar Tifft
M. Knoedler & Co., Inc. Transworld Art
Mrs. Marion K. Morgan Miss Pauline Trigere
Ned Marshall & Harry Shule, Inc. Mrs. Lila Tyng
The Old Shell Game, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Ufland
Mr. and Mrs. Hans Oppenheimer & Vice Versa
Mrs. Kermit Osserman and Doris Warner Vidor Miss Ruth Sue Osserman A La Vieille Russie, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Ostrow Vojtech Blau, Inc.
Patterson, Flynn, and Martin, Inc. Mrs. Eleanor Ward
448 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 458>>>

David Webb, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Albert Weiss Miss Jessica M. Weber The Wicker Garden Mrs. Lester Weindling Becky Young—Frame House Gallery
Donors of Financial Support
Dr. Richard W. Weatherhead The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation The Weatherhead Foundation
Donors to the Study Collection in Memory of Dr. Harold P. Stern
Charlottesville/ Albemarle Foundation for the Encouragement of the Arts: 1 Japanese painting. Dr. and Mrs. Kurt A. Gitter: 1 Japanese calligraphy. Mr. and Mrs. N. V. Hammer: 1 Japanese sutra box. Mr. and Mrs. Province Henry: 2 Japanese pottery plates. Family of Dr. Harold P. Stern: 1 Japanese painting; 1 Japanese pottery dish.
Donors to the Study Collection
The Honorable David K. E. Bruce: 1 Chinese stone sculpture.
Miss Elise Buckman: 1 Egyptian stone scarab.
Dr. and Mrs. Kurt A. Gitter: 1 Japanese painting.
Mrs. Richard Helms: 1 Persian pottery bowl.
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: collection of jars, jugs, sherds, and lamp.
Mrs. Myron B. Smith: 1 Persian bronze dish.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Snyder: collection of Chinese pottery, Martabani ware sherds.
Mr. Tenkei Tachibana: 1 Japanese painting (pair of screens).
Mrs. Janet Vance: 1 Chinese bronze mirror.
Dr. John Winter: 10 Chinese bronze coins.
Donor to the Library Mrs. Myron B. Smith: 6 Japanese books.
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN Donors of Financial Support
Art Seminar Group, Inc. Sisterhood Washington Hebrew Congregation Mr. Robert F. Sermier Washington Art League
CURATORIAL FIELD RESEARCH CONTRIBUTIONS Jerome L. Greene Sydney and Frances Lewis Foundation
Leigh B. Block Joseph H. Hirshhorn T. M. Evans Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis Jerome L. Greene
Armand Hammer Foundation
SCM Corporation
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 449

<<<Page: 459>>>

Donors of Works of Art
Mrs. David K. E. Bruce Washington, D.C. Mrs. Beuford Cole Eugene, Oregon Mr. Douglas Davis, Mr. Vitaly Komar, and Mr. Alexander Melamid New York, New York* Mr. Joseph Erdelac Cleveland, Ohio Mrs. Gertrude Friedman Arlington, Virginia Mr. Allan Frumkin New York, New York Dr. and Mrs. John Gedo Wilmette, Illinois Miss Kay Hillman New York, New York Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn Naples, Florida
Institute of Scrap Iron and Steel, Inc.
Washington, D.C.
Mr. George W. Johnson, Jr. McLean, Virginia Mr. and Mrs. A. Leese Longview, Washington Mrs. Walter Loucheim Washington, D.C. Mr. Vincent Melzac Arlington, Virginia Mrs. Elinor Poindexter New York, New York Mr. Paul Rauch New York, New York Mrs. Hans Richter Locarno, Switzerland Mrs. Gustav Ring Washington, D.C. Mr. David Soyer New York, New York Miss Suzanne Vanderwoude Great Neck, New York
Donors of Financial Support
Armand Hammer
R. Philip Hanes
Thomas Howe
Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume
Edgar and Theresa Hyman Foundation
Donors to the Collections
Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Allmendinger Estate of Cyrus LeRoy Baldridge Stanley Bard
Tom Beard
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Benedict Fritz Blumenthal
Joseph Bransten
Adelyn D. Breeskin
Mrs. Melvin S. Brotman
Carrol I. Burtanger
Howard Russell Butler
Chemex Corporation
Max Arthur Cohn
Copco, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Wiliam Kay Daines Paul M. Dove
Jane M. Dowe
Werner Drewes
*Group gift
450 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann Paul Mellon
Charles Sawyer
C. G. Sloan & Co., Inc. Harry Zichterman
Fondo del Sol
Frank E. Fowler
Helen Gerardia
Walker Hancock
Mrs. Richard Harkness
Henri Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Christian Herter
DeWitt Hornor
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Horwich
Thomas Carr Howe
Estate of Helen Huntington Hull
Independent Lithuania through Gallery of Ciorilionis
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
David Keeler
Maurice Kish
Frederick E. Kline

<<<Page: 460>>>

Mr. David Kluger
Dr. and Mrs. Monroe Kornfeld
Frank McCloud
Frank McClure
Henry P. MclIlhenny
Mrs. Hiram W. McKee
Moissaye Marans
Roger Medearis
Vincent Melzac
Mrs. H. C. Menger
Dorothy Cook Moursund
Mr. and Mrs. Flew Murphy
Mr. and Mrs. John Naughlan
Benjamin J. Nicolette
Judith Newman
A. W. Pearlman
Leonard T. Peterson
Peter Powers
Misses Serene and Claire Puglisi
Bequest of Henry Ward Ranger through the National Acadamy of Design
Mr. and Mrs. Gustave Ring
Jo Roman
Rosenthal U. S. A. Limited
S. C. Johnson and Son, Inc.
Joseph J. Senturia
Smithson Society
Society of Washington Printmakers
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Mr. Philip Stern
Mrs. Katharine Sergava Sznycer
Alma Thomas
Mildred Thompson
Dr. and Mrs. Milton Turner
Daniel Valenza
Violet Oakley Memorial Foundation, Inc.
Aline Fruhauf Vollmer
Mrs. Faith Weston
Lawrence Nelson Wilbur
Will R. Wilson, Sr., and Marjorie Ashcroft Wilson
Woodward Foundation
Mahonri Young
Virginia Zabriskie
Harry W. Zichterman
Donors of Financial Support MISCELLANEOUS UNRESTRICTED GIFTS
. David Dibner . Torrence H. MacDonald
. David E. K. Bruce . and Mrs. John Mayer
DuPont Company Garfinckel’s
DIVISON OF NUMISMATICS Amos Press, Inc.
DIVISION OF PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY Mr. Peter R. Morris
Amos Press, Inc. Stanley M. Bierman, M.D.
Time-Life Books Inc.
Wrightson-Ramsing Foundation, Inc.
Washington Fashion Group
The Bass Foundation
Mr. Sidney N. Shure
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers
PPG Industries Foundation
NCR Corporation
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 451

<<<Page: 461>>>

DOUBLEDAY LECTURE SERIES Doubleday & Company, Inc.
U. S. Chamber of Commerce
American Commercial Barge Line Company American Institute of Marine Underwriters
C. J. Thibodeaux and Company Campbell Barge Line
Canal Barge Company, Inc. Cargo Carriers, Inc.
Crowley Foundation
Delta Concrete Company Dillingham Corporation
Dixie Carriers, Inc.
General Electric Company Professor George W. Hilton Ingram Barge Company Propeller Club, Port of San Diego S. C. Loveland Co., Inc.
Union Mechling (Dravo)
Upper Mississippi Towing Corporation
The Valley Line Company Water Transport Association
Womens Propeller Club of the U.S., Port xf New York
Friends of Music at the Smithsonian
Miss Catherine Absalom
AKC Fund, Inc.
Miss Margaret Allred
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Anderson Ms. Susan Babson
William and Barbara W. Bebbington Mr. Harold H. Bredell
Mr. and Mrs. Percy W. Brown Miss Jeanne M. Buccola
Mr. and Mrs. David Challinor, Jr. Mr. Anthony Chanaka
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs Mrs. Thomas K. Cline
Dr. and Mrs. Marshall Clinton Miss Elizabeth Cobler
Mrs. Philip Colman
Mrs. John Dimick
Miss Patricia Donovan
Mr. Henry D. Duarte
Miss Barbara Effron
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. T. Emond Dr. and Mrs. Robert H. Furman Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Gaylord Mr. and Mrs. Paul E. Geier
Mr. Gene E. Genae
Ms. Beatrice L. Goldberg
Mr. and Mrs. S. I. Goldman
Mrs. James L. Goodwin
452. / Smithsonian Year 1978
Mr. Albert L. Harshbarger
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Harvey Mrs. Helen R. Hollis
Mr. Bruce Howe
Mrs. C. L. Hulbert
William and Mary B. Jack Capt. and Mrs. E. E. Johnson Miss Emily W. Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Waldo Jones Mrs. R. Keith Kane
Mrs. Shirley Kaufman
Mr. William Keener
Mrs. F. Corning Kenly
Miss Mary L. Kerr
Anthony J. T. Kloman
Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger Elizabeth N. Kuziemski
Naomi Kuziemski
Mrs. Virginia T. Leighton
Ms. Ella Jean Mark
Mrs. Helen Markel
Dr. John Russell Mason
Miss Jean McGue
Mr. David H. McKillop
Mrs. Loudon Mellen
Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Morse Mr. and Mrs. John U. Nef

<<<Page: 462>>>

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr. Mrs. Janet W. Solinger
Mrs. Henry Parkinson Mr. Davidson Sommers
Ms. Ann Radion Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Stauber
Ms. Ardella R. Reeve Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Suberman Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Rivinus Mrs. Elizabeth T. Thompson
S. W. Childs Management Corp. Mrs. Richard H. Thompson
Ms. Marie A. Samson Pauline Bird Treman
Mr. Carl H. Schlapp, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Carington Tutwiler Mrs. John Farr Simmons Mr. and Mrs. Bronson Tweedy Mr. C. Haskell Small Dr.,and Mrs. C. F. Tyner
Mrs. Francis A. Smith Washington Performing Arts Society Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Harrell Smith Frances P. Wilkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Henry P. Smith III Bertha Williams
Donors to the National Collections
18 West 30th Street Corporation (through Frederick F. Winkler): cable call box (1977.0525).
20-30-40 Society of Wisconsin (through Lee Wagner): pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated metal tops manufactured by Hazel Atlas Glass Co. (1978.0444).
George W. Abbott (through The Institute for Certification of Computer Professionals): Certificate in Data Processing awarded to donor on September 4, 1962 (1977.1047).
Dr. Roger Abrahams: chord zither (1977.1061).
Carol J. Accetta: 2 buttons and a ribbon concerning the August 26, 1977, Alice Paul ERA March, Washington, D.C. (1978.0113).
Barbara and John Adair: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops manufactured by Jeannette Glass Co. (1978.0037).
Mrs. Lolan Adams: Sylvania promotional thermometer (1978.0188).
George B. Agnew, Jr.: six-foot, circular needlepoint rug by Patience Agnew, depicting full-length portraits of 38 First Ladies’ gowns (1977.0747).
Shirley Aidekman: sterling silver pendant on silver chain (1977.0800).
Etienne Aigner (through Lucien Aigner): 6 silver print photographs by Lucien Aigner (1977.0759).
Government of Aitutaki, Aitutaki Post Office, Postal Accounts (through Resident Agent’s Office): 25 mint postage stamps, 16 used postage stamps, 5 mint souvenir sheets, and a First Day cover all of Aitutaki (1977.0955); 2 First Day covers, 2 mint souvenir sheets, 16 mint postage stamps, and 4 used postage stamps all from Aitutaki (1978.0248).
G. Norman Albree: metal tube mounted on Albree telescope mount (1978.0172).
Mrs. Betty W. Alexander: 2 brooches (323521.00).
Sheila M. Alexander: Italian emergency scrip, 1977 (1978.0812).
Dr. Salim Ali (through S. Dillon Ripley): 40 First Day covers of India and 4 used postage stamps of Bhutan (1978.0252).
Muhammad Ali: boxing gloves and robe used by the donor (1977.1073).
Philip F. Allan: photographs of Mrs. Grover Cleveland made from original negatives by C. M. Bell, dated 1886 (1977.0757).
Allergen-Proof Encasings Inc. (through N. E. Shapiro): allergy-proof pillow case cover with literature, set of 5 pens stamped with address of company, photograph of common house mite, bottle A.P.E—mr (mold remover), Aerosol can A.P.E. 100, can Greer disinfectant deodorant, can Nite & Day Insect Killer, and a sample Flex-A-Lite All Purpose Mask (1978.0467).
Ann Mitchell Alvey (through Doris A. MacNeal): woman’s dress, c. 1830, woman’s shoes, 1830—45, and 2 men’s stocks, 1820-45 (323495.00).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 453

<<<Page: 463>>>

Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America, A.F. of L. (through Hilton Hanna): deck of playing cards illustrated with pictures of American labor leaders, issued by the AMCBW (1978.0636).
John F. Amelunxen, P.E.: Dutch wall clock (1977.0924).
Mrs. Dina L. and John F. Amelunxen: copper and brass Doof Pot (1977.0839).
American Antiquarian Society (through Marcus A. McCorison): booklet “The Boatswain’s Mate or, an Interesting Dialogue Between Two British Seamen” (1977.0891).
The American Association of Variable Star Observers (through Charles Scovil): refractor telescope (1977.0600).
American Revolution Bicentennial Administration (through R. L. Miller): “The Bicentennial History of the United States,” the Franklin Mint 100-ingot series in pewter and silver, and “American Revolution Bicentennial Plates” (1978.0020); (through Robert J. Dolehide): Bicentennial commemorative medals (1978.0103); (through Mr. Miller): album containing US Bicentennial related First Day covers from 48 different postal administrations (1978.0295).
Lorraine C. Anderson: 6 lengths of silk fabric, 1 silk Mexican shawl, and 1 table cover (1978.0618).
Poul Anderson: 2 letters written in 1866 (1977.0858).
Hughes Angell: Watergate stationery, pamphlet, hotel reservation for 1972 Democratic National Convention, Music Contract, tax receipt, admission ticket to Vice President’s gallery, and a Democratic layout sheet from Watergate (1977.0736).
Jay Angello: modern-day Pony Express cover carried between Woodland Park and Cripple Creek, Colorado, on July 10, 1975 (1977.1025).
David B. Ansell: 2 US helmet liners and 2 US steel helmets (1978.0433).
Argonne National Laboratory (through Donald F. Coleman): superconducting bubble chamber magnet, 10” (1978.0469).
Armco Steel Corporation (through J. C. Winget): 2 memory core samples (314506.00).
Brad Armstrong: Schwinn Unicycle, 1977 (1978.0548).
Leontine M. Asmus: embroidered linen skirt and matching embroidered jacket (1978.0790).
Mrs. Lydie G. Auchincloss: passport 1854 (1978.0506).
Mrs. Robert Low Bacon: riding apparel including formal hunting and casual riding attire (319023.00).
Alan Baer: a suite of 6 embossed etchings with pochoir by Salvador Dali, “La Conquete du Cosmos II” (1978.0297).
Dr. John C. Bailar, Jr.: tubulated retort (1977.0602); mineralogical assaying kit (1978.0592).
Estate of Cyrus Leroy Baldridge (through Jerome B. Stern and the First National Bank of Santa Fe): gold medals commemorating the coronation of Haile Selassie, Emperor of Abyssinia, 1928 (1978.0159).
Mr. and Mrs. David M. Baldwin: woman’s dress, c. 1880; girl’s hat, 1865-70; woman’s belt 1825-80, and woman’s neckerchief 1800—49 (319059.00).
Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton (through John C. Kosky): extrusion press “Rita” and forging press “Major” (314523.00).
Steven Barbash: 4 etchings and their etched zinc plates by Steven Barbash, “Looking up from a Swim” nos. 2, 3, 4, and 5 (1977.0801).
Government of Barbuda, Post Office, Philatelic Bureau: 4 First Day covers, a mint souvenir sheet, a used postage stamp and 42 mint postage stamps all from Barbuda (1977.0960); Bureau First Day cover and 3 mint postage stamps all from Barbuda (1978.0390).
Mrs. Winifred Barrows: 2 Calvin Coolidge postcards (1978.0538).
William Milo Barum: see Elizabeth Barum Curtis.
Dr. F. Lewis Bartlett: 2 ancient Greek silver coins (1978.0601).
454 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 464>>>

Frederick W. Bartlett II: 4 offset lithographs (1977.0921); Elgin pocket watch (1977.0922).
Philip Batchelder, M.D.: 38 X-ray tubes, 3 valve tubes, and a protective shield for the X-ray tubes (1978.0121).
Bruce Bazelon: US Marine Corps expert rifle bar and 2 collar insignia, US Navy cloth rating badge for Seaman Ist Class, 2 officer rate insignia, specialty insignia for Metalsmith, and fatigue cap insignia for Petty Officer 2nd Class (1977.0083).
Howard Beall: pocket sextant by H. Huges & Son, Ltd., London, 1918 (1977.1038).
Joyce Bearden: bumper sticker “We Support Agriculture Strike,” flyer “Alert,” newspaper page from Cordelle, Ga., “Dispatch,” newspaper “The Agribusiness Buyer’s Guide,” and a small card “Farmers Creed” (1978.0537).
Bernhard G. and Estelle S. Bechhoefer: 2 etchings, one of church building with children descending steps by Axel H. Haig and one of church interior by Louis Orr, and 2 drypoints “The Toy” and “Le Repas” by Lee Hankey (1977.0868).
Mrs. Katherine Thompson Beede: “Continental” style uniform pieces, c. 1850 including coat, breeches, and waistcoat (321703.00).
Virginia Beets: woman’s sweater, 1965 (1978.0450).
Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania (through H. A. Suter and Robert Straw): cross arm section (plus miscellaneous hardware) (1977.1097).
Don H. Berkebile: dump cart, c. 1910 (1978.0380); tire repair boot, bicycle lamp, wooden wheel, chauffeur’s badge, rein holder, spring lubricator, 4 pairs of carriage lamps, paint press, can harness oil, can veterinary compound, and an Indianapolis Motor Speedway badge (1978.0419); tie plate model, c. 1930 (1978.0463).
Irving Berlin: 48 medieval Islamic coins (1978.0027).
Martha Berrien: collection of 47 pochoir-colored prints and a set of 8 stencils (1977.0885).
William E. A. Best: pocket watch (1978.0054).
Bethlehem Steel Corporation (through Frank Lindsay Fisher): steelworker’s equipment including ladle, leggings, shoes, gloves, helmet, safety glasses, jacket, trousers, and a coat (1977.1132).
The Bethlehem Steel Corporation (through E. T. Moffett and William A. Latshaw): scale models of an open hearth furnace, open hearth furnace operations, blast furnace operations, and Henry Grey’s 48” Universal Structural Mill (314512.00).
Government of Bhutan (through Bhutan Stamp Agency Ltd.): 2 mint souvenir sheets and 19 mint postage stamps all of Bhutan (1978.0653).
Bicentennial Commission of the Town of Wawarsing (through Eugene Glusker): pewter plate (1978.0003).
Big “D” Pression Glass Club (through Janice C. Phaup): pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with threaded, perforated metal tops (1978.0449).
Mrs. Lenore R. and William C. Binzer (through Daughters of the American Revolution): Royal Horse Artillery full dress jacket, 1881-1901; Middlesex Regiment dress coat, 1881-1901, and a canteen with carrying strap, 1881-1901 (1977.0894).
Mrs. Lenore R. and William C. Binzer: needlework sampler dated 1881 and 5 modern wooden printing blocks (1978.0615).
Ilse Bischoff: German hard-paste porcelain plate decorated in the Kakiemon manner with the tiger and bamboo pattern (1977.1290).
Black Box Collotype Studios, Inc. (through Michael Intrator): collotype, “Basket of Fruit” (1977.0706).
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Bloom: Centennial award medal (1977.1001).
Henry H. Boehm: hay fork (1978.0076).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 455

<<<Page: 465>>>

Bertha Boehmer: Centennial flag “1776 Centennial 1876” (1977.0967).
Mrs. Ruth F. Boorstin: patterned woven band which was wrapped around a “Palm-Leaf-Type” book (of metal leaves) which contained religious subject matter (1978.0152).
Carl D. Bosley: section of Mt. Savage iron rail (1978.0372).
John C. Botkin: 1 cased set drawing instruments (1978.0226).
Knowlton K. Boyce: telephone coin box and pay telephone box (1978.0316).
Ann F. Boyce: sash of yellow felt with black letters spelling out the word “Egality”’ are left out of equality. Refers to lack of passage of Equal Rights Amendment (1978.0071).
John J. Boyd: Surveyor’s compass by James Lynch, set of surveyor’s marking pins, protractor, plumb line (1978.0655).
Brede Inc.: Hydrofac model (314515.00).
Mrs. Deborah Bretzfelder in memory of Dr. Karl B. Bretzfelder: US and foreign military material (314526.00).
Mrs. Rose L. Briskman in memory of Nathan S. Briskman: lady’s watch, Lepine (1977.0936).
Marguerite Wale Broaddus: woman’s clothing items including 2 shawls, 2 dresses, a nightgown, jacket, coat, and fan (1977.0842).
Mrs. Virginia M. Brooks: 38-star American flag (1977.0887).
Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters (through Ernest Ford): items used in the donors’ Washington, D.C. headquarters including chairs, bulletin board, window glass, ballot box, cocktail trays, ashtrays, posters, cardboard and wood fans, convention program, handbooks, playing cards, poker chips, and a program (1978.0671).
Dr. Annella Brown: French hard-paste porcelain teapot and cover (1977.0226).
Franklin Q. Brown: Packard Phaeton, 1932 (1978.0587).
Ruth Eleanor Brown: wooden clothespin with metal wire around top, patented in 1929, and the patent document for the clothespin (1978.0084).
Eleanor H. Brown: steel measuring tape (1978.0319).
Evangeline Bell Bruce: 106 pieces of ceramics, glass, and porcelain, including eighteenth century Meissen, eighteenth and nineteenth century Worcester, nineteenth century Paris, Ming Dynasty, and others (1977.1251).
Mrs. Charles E. Brush: dress form (1977.0948).
Eugene D. Buchanan (through Gordon Buchanan, Jr.): 44 pieces of porcelain from England and Wales, 9 pieces from Germany and China, 8 pieces of non-porcelains from England, and 99 medallions of which 75 are eighteenth century Wedgwood and Wedgwood and Bentley (1977.1253); 8 drawings with a color wash, 1 etching with a color wash and 3 etching and aquatints with a color wash, all by Thomas Rowlandson (1977.1098).
Marion A. Buck: The Royal Family Cameo Collection by Michael Rizzello struck in sterling silver by John Pinches (medalists) Ltd. (1977.1269).
Buehler Ltd. (through G. W. Graves): Simplimet press, Surfmet belt surfacer, Handimet grinder, and a standard polisher (322790.00).
George G. Bull: sheet of Apollo-Soyuz commemorative postage stamps consisting of 24 specimens (1978.0109).
George G. and Mary E. Thatcher Bull: 2 student schedule books, 2 examination documents, 2 photographs, and a commemorative postcard (1977.0578).
John T. Bullington: agricultural strike cap (1978.0094).
Bulova Watch Company, Inc. (through Haskell C. Titchell): Bulova chronometer (1977.0923).
Jean R. Burris: 16 phonograph records (1978.0393).
Lauri Burris: 12 phonograph records (1978.0128).
Nannie Helen Burroughs School (through Violet M. Ankrum and Dr. Aurelia R. Downey): 66 items of furniture, furnishings, photographs, and assorted memorabilia (1978.0342).
Government of Burundi, Postal Administration of Burundi, philatelic agency:
456 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 466>>>

4 First Day covers, 2 mint souvenir sheets and 32 mint postage stamps all from Burundi (1978.0341); postage stamps of Burundi, 25 mint and 43 used (1977.0959).
Gale S. Burwell: French nineteenth century coffee maker tin pot with lid, ceramic warmer, wick holder, ceramic cup, drip section, drip section lid, strainer and ceramic lid (1977.0712).
Mrs. Mary H. Byrd: Woman’s shoes and purse, c. 1958 (322626.00)
University of California, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory (through George Pappas): 1930’s vintage electrometer (1977.0992).
University of California, The Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory (through Dr. James D. Doss): coagulating cutting forceps (312618.00).
Mrs. Irene G. Camp: copper wheel engraving lathe with copper wheels and related accessories (1978.0479).
The Reverend Charles T. Campbell: manuscript for speech of Mary Agnes (Shontz) Campbell for a WCTU office, c. 1881 (1978.0656).
Jean Stuart Campbell: 3 daguerreotypes, 3 tintypes, and 2 daguerreotypes ina double plate case (1977.0741).
Leopoldo Cancio: group of 5 Umaiyad coins (1977.1266); “Bonos Birf’” issued by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (1977.1267).
Dr. M. Hamlin Cannon: Spanish saluting cannon (323599.00).
Toni Carabillo: jewelry, newspaper, catalog, and kit, mainly pertaining to ERA and NOW (1978.0460).
Carlisle Colonial Minute Men, Inc. (through Robert R. Heath): US Estabrook trail walk medal, 1977, issued by the donor in silver and in bronze (1977.1198).
James W. and Miriam Carpenter (through National Collection of Fine Arts): 9 earthenware items made by George Ohr, Biloxi, Mississippi, late nineteenth century (1978.0104).
Walter A. Carpus: US WW II Victory Medal, US American Defense Service Medal, US American Defense Service Lapel Pin, 2 US plastic flashlights, and Japanese WW II items including a can of cooking fuel, M 91 hand grenade and HE shell, M 89 (1978.0431).
Alice Carr in memory of her sister Dolly Green: woman’s coat, 1933-1945 (1977.0046).
Joseph C. Carter: Chronik motion picture camera and accessories in carrying case (1977.0908).
Mrs. Rosalynn Carter: floor length blue gown with matching coat, gold shoes, and gold handbag (1978.0485).
Diane Cash: depression glass pepper and salt shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Hocking Glass Co. (1977.1254).
Nancy W. Cassady and Robert M. Chilton: model of brick street (323479.00).
Elsie E. Caughlan: 2 tin pie plates with perforated bottoms (1977.1029).
Dr. Francis Celoria: British post office insulators (1978.0385).
Central Bank of Egypt (through H. Shakankin): Egypt 20 Pound specimen banknote (1977.1180).
CERN, European Organization for Nuclear Research (through H. O. Wuster): intersection chamber (1977.0938).
CERN, European Organization for Nuclear Research (through M. BuhlerBroglin): Charpak drift chamber and Charpak multi-wire proportional counter (1977.0708).
Edmond and Patricia Chagnon: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Jeannette Glass Co. (1978.0043).
Dr. A. A. Chaplan: 3 US gold medals (1977.1249).
Thomas L. Cheney: watch-making lathe, c. 1886 (1978.0607).
Cheston Company (through Richard M. Kuehner): governor, water turbine (1977.1136).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 457

<<<Page: 467>>>

Robert M. Chilton: see Nancy W. Cassady.
Republic of China, Directorate General of Posts (through S. P. Wang): 16 First Day covers, 3 used postage stamps, 2 mint souvenir sheets, and 135 mint postage stamps all from the Republic of China (1977.0962); 9 First Day covers, 24 mint postage stamps, and 20 specimen stamps, all from the Republic of China (1978.0464).
Virginia Reeder Christensen: marimba by J. C. Deagan, Inc., Chicago (1978.0471).
Liz Claiborne, Inc. (through Liz Claiborne): woman’s trousers and 2 blouses, all from 1976 (1977.0088).
E. Clain-Stefanelli: 6 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman Emperor Vespasian and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1274); 6 dies for Roman republican denarii and lead offstrikes made using these dies (1977.1278); 6 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman Emperor Domitian and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1279); 4 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman Emperor Augustus and lead offstrikes made using these dies (1977.1276); 6 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman rulers Aelius, Antoninus Pius, and Faustina II, and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1282); 6 dies for Denarii and/or aurei as well as quinarii of the Roman Emperor Trajan, and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1283).
V. Clain-Stefanelli: 4 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman Emperor Titus and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1273); 4 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman emperors Tiberius and Nero, and lead strikings made using these dies (1977.1275); 4 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman Emperor Augustus and lead offstrikes made using these dies (1977.1277); 4 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman Emperor Nerva and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1280); 6 dies for denarii and/or aurei of the Roman Emperor Hadrian and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1281); pair of dies for the striking of aurei of the Roman Emperor Commodus and lead offstrikes from these dies (1977.1284); group of US and foreign tokens and medals (1977.1285); ancient coins of Istros, in the Lower Danubian region, 3 B.C. to 3 A.D. (1977.1286).
Clark Equipment Company (through Robert H. Braun, Jr.): Clark Tructractor (1978.0368).
Mrs. Travis H. Clark: infant’s shirt, c. 1912 (1977.0310).
Carl H. Claudy, Jr.: eagle radiator ornament, 1914 (1978.0421).
Cleveland Board of Education (through Carl A. Long): copying press with a toggle joint (1977.1002).
Cleveland Indians, Inc. (through Carl Hoerig): baseball uniform worn by Frank Robinson, includes trousers, shirt, hat, and footless stockings (1977.1131).
Judith Cody (through Jane Dale): 8 Women’s Year poems written by the donor (1978.0669).
Cole County Historical Society (through Mrs. Caroline Schweer): 13-star flag with stars arranged in a series of arcs—non-official US flag (1977.0756).
Robert L. Coleman: membership medal, in gold, presented to Mr. William T. Coleman of the San Francisco Committee of Vigilance, in 1856 (1977.1201).
Herbert R. Collins: cider barrel (1977.0772); painted side chair and a container of matches (1977.0804).
Republic of Colombia, Administracion Postal Nacional, Asesora Tecnica Filatelica, Jefe de la Oficina Filatelico (through Mrs. Beatriz Pantoja de Gil): 15 First Day covers, 3 mint postage stamps, and 3 mint souvenir sheets (1977.1017); (through Carlos Julio Medina Salamanca): 16 First Day covers, 2 mint souvenir sheets, 43 mint postage stamps, all of Colombia (1978.0247).
Paul S. Conger; prism binoculars, 9 power with 20mm objectives (1977.0991).
Continental Walk for Disarmament and Social Justice (through Ed Hede-
458 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 468>>>

mann): objects concerning the Continental Walk for Disarmament and Social Justice including a button, 3 booklets, 2 handouts, 3 posters, a banner, and a novelty (1977.0900).
Government of Cook Islands, Ministry of Posts (through Officer in Charge): 8 First Day covers, 8 mint souvenir sheets, 13 used postage stamps, and 47 mint postage stamps all of Cook Islands (1977.0951); 4 First Day covers, 7 mint souvenir sheets, 9 mint postage stamps, and 3 used postage stamps all of the Cook Islands (1978.0305).
Mary G. Cooper: woman’s 2-piece dress (1977.0097).
Mrs. Elsie Copeland: girl’s dress, c. 1870 (1977.0766).
Steven V. Correia: studio art glass made by donor including a vase, a paperweight, and a cobalt goblet (1977.1252).
Crane Co. (through D. C. Fabiani): 13 old plumbing fixtures (1977.1217).
Samuel A. Cravotta: U.S. 4-barrel shotgun (1978.0593).
Peggy Crawford: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Federal Glass Company (1978.0005).
Cornelia Cree: 3 photographs, 5 posters, a concert program, and a newsletter of the First World War (1977.0978).
Mrs. F. A. Cucolo. WW I period souvenir handkerchief from France (1978.0335).
Henry L. and Carol C. Culp: Grabo tool grinder (1978.0384).
Cumberland Steel Company (through George Wyckoff, Jr.): steam engine— Buckeye, steam engine with Gardner governor, and a Triplex pump (1977.0510).
Marie H. Cunningham: objects relating to the Democratic National Convention including 3 photographs, 2 booklets, 1 letter, 1 license plate, 1 broadside, and 1 program (1977.0849).
Dr. Virginia Currey: felt banner used in torch ceremony at the National Women’s Conference in Houston, Texas (1978.0278).
Field Curry: switchboard, 4 lighting arrestors, 8 insulators, and 3 signs (1977.1121); railway signalling relay (1978.0169); transposition bracket—four-pin bracket for open wire pole line (1978.0350); block limit signal lantern and whistle post sign (1978.0572).
Mrs. Leon R. Curry: US WW II garrison caps including a wool enlisted, a cotton khaki, and a wool enlisted—Chemical Corps (1977.1050).
Elizabeth Barnum Curtis and William Milo Barnum: woman’s two-piece dress 1885-86? (1977.1201).
Cybis (through Frank L. Bader): Presidential chess set containing 16 brown chessmen, 16 blue chessmen, case for the chessmen, chess board, and chess board case (1978.0805).
The Danbury Mint (through Patsy Seeliger): gold Lindbergh commemorative medals and a pewter model (1978.0026).
Jerry Dantzic: panoramic color photograph, East River view, “Tall Ships” (1977.0588).
John W. and Trannie Davis: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Indiana Glass Company (1977.1288).
Mrs. Carterette C. Davis: WW II sewing kit, 2 Gillette double-edge razor blades, and US Army shoulder sleeve insignia, 6th Army (1978.0553).
Dr. Giles E. Dawson: bootmaker’s rasp (320021.00).
Irma Sutton de Carpentier: woman’s clothing items including a tennis dress, 1927-1939; beach coat, 1930-1939, and pajamas, 1926 (319037.00).
Margaret K. de Ruiz: needlework bag with needle and pin holder (1977.1095) ; game, “Pin the Tail on the Donkey” (1977.0763); buckles, compact, cigarette case, 7 bracelets, watch accessory, pocketbook, and a bag (1977.1095).
Borghild and Robert J. de Villiers: Civil War field medical chest, Kocker
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 459

<<<Page: 469>>>

hemostatic clamp, nasal speculum, Mayo dissecting scissors, biopsy forceps, tissue forceps, uterine dilator, stone forceps, g. a. sound dilator, hypodermic syringe, and a wound irrigating kit (313040.00).
F. Dean: WW I Armistice “C” message telegram and WW . Armistice message and signal form (1978.0330).
John Wesley Dean: draft of the actual copy of testimony read from by donor during the Senate Watergate hearings and the letter of transmittal (1977.1122),
John F. Demeis: US Engineer badge, New York District (1977.0824).
Kingdom of Denmark Ministry of Public Works (through E. L. Moller): 5 mint souvenir sheets, 75 mint postage stamps, all from Denmark, and 35 mint postage stamps of the Faroe Islands (1978.0462).
Kingdom of Denmark: 76 mint postage stamps of Denmark and 15 mint postage stamps of Faroe Islands (1977.0956).
Detecto Scales, Inc. (through Mack Rapp and Michael Guinan): micrometer scale, portable platform scale, portable platform scale with drop lever, and a trip scale (1978.0424).
Barbara Dickstein: woman’s brassieres—one dating from 1971, the other 1974 (1978.0575).
Nancy Dickstein: girl’s shoes, 1976; girl’s or boy’s socks, 1978; girl’s belt, 1976; girl’s purse, 1975, and girl’s blouse, 1975 (1978.0155).
Mrs. Margaret M. Divelbis: red brocade curtain valence from the Red Room of the White House, c. 1900, consisting of two swags and two tails (1977.0711).
Mrs. Evelyn Domrese: button depicting Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., with the inscriptions “Nonviolence,” “Precious Lord, Take My Hand,” “Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. / 1929-1968” (1978.0555).
Gladys C. Dougherty: small sterling silver dish, silver plated spoon, silver plated pickle fork, sterling silver ladle, glass and metal Christmas ornament, and a china egg Christmas ornament (1977.0729) ; woman’s hat, 1960— 1963 (1978.0574); woman’s earrings, 1947-49 (1977.0004); 3 records by Edward R. Murrow and Fred W. Friendly (1978.0219).
Edna M. Dragoo: woman’s mourning bonnet, 1880-90, and woman’s hat, 1916 (1977.0764).
Drake Well Memorial Park (through Alan W. Perkins): Robert’s torpedo (314509.00).
Government of Dubai, General Post Office, Philatelic Section: 36 mint postage stamps of Dubai (1977.0957); 33 mint postage stamps of Dubai (1978.0256).
Mrs. Arthur Wallace Dunn: 3 glass miniature intaglios (1977.1289).
Ann and Ray C. Durham: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, “Lydia Ray” pattern (1977.1255).
William R. Duryee: 2 Netherland Revenue receipt impressions of the 1820s (1978.0016).
Professor Wilbur H. Dutton: arithmetic teaching device, ‘““Visigraph Model C” (1978.0490).
Dan C. Dwelle: gold pin which according to donor’s family history belonged to Mary Todd Lincoln (1977.0785).
Roderic V. and Vinton J. Dyer: set of sled runners consisting of four individual runners (1977.0870).
The Eastern Light Company (through H. C. S. Samuels): 14 elements of domestic carbide-gas illuminating and heating system and album of advertising and other printed matter on carbide-gas system (1977.0935).
Dr. Harold Edgerton: color photographic print with silver print from same photograph and a silver print all by the donor (1978.0819).
Edwards Pacemaker Systems (through Peter Halter): Edwards pacemaker (1978.0466).
Marleen Edwards: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with per-
460 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 470>>>

forated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Hazel Atlas Glass Co. (1978.0006).
Duncan L. Edwards in memory of his sister, Helen Park Edwards: silver teapot by Barent ten Eyck, Albany, N.Y., c. 1735 (1977.0770).
Mary Ellen Eichert: woman’s underwar, combination, 1910-25 (1978.0576).
Pam Elam: Kentucky IWY materials including 3 buttons, 2 booklets, a fact sheet, a memo, and a packet of information (1978.0558).
Major John M. Elliott, USMC (Ret): pair of US Marine Corps dress uniform shoes (1977.0716).
Mrs. Dorothy Ellis: New Jersey 15 shilling note (1977.1200).
Mrs. Dorothy M. Ellis: double row, shot mold (1977.0912).
Allen L. Emlen: Cope Line of packets ticket (1978.0360).
Ida C. and Ray Allen Engleking: whaler’s light (1978.0367).
Church of the Epiphany (through Martin Petersilia): plate, The Wonderful World of Ohio (1977.0928).
Eleni Epstein: woman’s coat, c. 1970 (1977.1219).
Esso Production Research Co. (through Russell M. Jeffords): 6 photographs of marine fossils (314497.00).
Mrs. Madelyn M. Euvrard: naval fire control and navigation publications (1977.1044).
Evan-Picone (through Irving Spitalnick): woman’s designer clothing items from 1977 including a blouse, hat, jacket, trousers, 2 skirts, 3 vests, and a scarf (1977.1165).
Dr. Clifford Evans: 21 mint postage stamps and 1 used postage stamp all from Cuba (1978.0267).
Joan Evans: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops (1978.0033).
Ruth Everard: button: “I’m a Lifer”, pro-life, anti-abortion (1978.0063).
Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Failing: Sunbeam electric toaster—Model B. (1978.0388).
Fairfax County Public Schools (through Bonnie Becker): 2 posters, “Sex Discrimination is against the Law” and “But it’s not fair / not only unfair, Sex Discrimination is against the Law” (1977.0816).
Estate of Mrs. Bessie Allyn Farnsworth (through Leonard Paulin): honing machine for cylindrical bores (1978.0168).
The Fashion Group, Inc. (through Edna Sivek): woman’s designer dress, 1965-1970 (317892.00).
R. A. Feagle: agricultural strike cap and jacket (1978.0098).
Mary R. Feeley: 27 Kansas State IWY materials (1978.0585).
William M. Fenston: WW II service combat boots 1944 (1978.0331).
Fiesta San Antonio Commission, Inc. (through Davis Burnett, Jr., and The Honorable Henry B. Gonzalez): stone from the Alamo (1977.1022).
Mrs. Ethel Drummond Finley: 76 candy molds by Peter Benston Drummond, 1896-1961, of Racine, Wisconsin, for use by the Ideal Mould Company (323489.00).
First Bapist Church of Suitland, Maryland (through Darlie Fay Norton and Norman F. Duehring): 1 Underwood Sundstrand adding machine (1978.0279).
The Honorable Hamilton J. Fish, Jr.: 7 buckles, 1700-99 (1977.0281).
Mrs. Richard Fisher: 3 brass plates believed to have been removed from French construction equipment used in digging the Panama Canal (1978.0608).
Norm Flayderman: U.S. Army WW I and WW II equipment and accessories, Canadian web pouches, and British first aid pouch (1977.0972).
Mrs. Bertha C. Flom in memory of Dr. Charles Flom: electro-therapeutic device, model 6, #290 (1978.0596).
Fly By Night Depression Glass Club of Pennsylvania (through Chester W.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 461

<<<Page: 471>>>

Llewellyn): pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops (1978.0481).
Estate of Miriam S. Foote (through Evan T. Sage): polychrome photograph of fruit by Frederic E. Ives (1977.0713).
Shelly Jayne Foote: woman’s clothing items including a slip, panties, nightgown, gloves, and a purse (323492.00).
The Honorable Harold Ford (through Scott Morrell): objects associated with the political campaign of Congressman Harold Ford including 2 photographs, 2 broadsides, a sticker, a bumper sticker, a leaflet and a handout (1977.0930).
Jean E. Ford; handout, pamphlet, program, and booklet from the Nevada Women’s Conference (1977.1057).
Fred G. Fournet: liquid measure, shot glass style (1977.1147).
Frank R. Foust: Haynes M.C.M. photometer and Curtis Dufaycolor printer (1978.0820).
Hans Godo Fraebel: Glass sculptures by the donor, “Motion” and “Faucet” (1977.0678).
The Franklin Mint (through William F. Krieg): sterling silver silhouette of the schooner yacht “America” (1978.0371).
Freehold Bicentennial Committee (through Michael J. Lilley): Borough of Freehold Bicentennial mug, stoneware with picture of courthouse (1977.1040).
Jo Freeman: 72 items, including political campaign buttons concerning black civil rights, the women’s movement, the Chicago 7 conspiracy trial, the free speech movement at the University of California, and credentials and identification for the tenth National Organization for Women convention 1977 (1977.0737); 72 items from the women’s movement including pens, posters, notecards, bookmarks, bumper stickers, jewelry, clothing, buttons, flyers (1978.0284); 21 women’s movement buttons (1978.0287).
Freightliner Corporation (through Kenneth W. Self): Freightliner tractor, 1950 (1978.0356).
Jon D. Freshour: woman’s parasol, 1860-1895 (1977.0768).
Dr. Charles Frederick Frey: see Mrs. Katherine Maxwell.
Ronald Freyberger: man’s formal suit, formal shirt and bow tie from 1967 and man’s shoes, c. 1958 (319948.00).
Maurice W. Frier: balloon part from the Baldwin-Ziegler polar expedition of 1901 and SOS note with the ballon (1977.1148).
Mrs. Helen M. Fritz: Dutch delft plate with blue and white foliate decoration, c. 1750-75 and an English delft plate with polychrome decoration c. 1765 (1978.0542) ; beadwork purse (1978.0791).
Melinda Y. Frye: T-shirt with caricature of former President Richard Nixon holding up both arms with fingers in V position, “Impeachment with Honor” (1977.0709).
Florence Yarnell Fullerton: Quaker clothing, including woman’s under bonnet, pieces of an under bonnet, shawl, gloves, shoes, handkerchief and fichu, and man’s necktie and card case (1977.0342); 54 wood-carving tools (1977.0925).
E. F. Furman: diamond necklace, 1950-1970 (323596.00).
M. William Furman: graduated diamond necklace (323597.00).
Gaertner Scientific Corporation (through L. W. Higgins): cathetometer (1978.0230).
Patricia Gallant: US Post Office box rent receipt, 1870 (1978.0088).
David L. Ganz, Esq.: Aluminum blank for proposed US cent, 1973/1974. (1977.1202); small-size dollar blank, made of magnimat material by Vereinigte Deutsche Metallwerke A.G. (West Germany), c. 1976 (1977.1203).
Mrs. Leona Garber: flag used at the inaugural ball of Grover Cleveland in 1893 (1977.0802).
462 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 472>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin C. Garbow: 2 perforated veneer side chairs by Gardner & Co. (1977.0734).
Georgia Eichner Gardner: woman’s wedding dress, 1953, woman’s wedding veil, 1953; man’s clothing items including hat, 1968; cap 1947-48; 2 ties, 1968, bow tie, 1950-65; 2-piece suit, 1956, and 2-piece suit, 1963 (1977.0213).
Gardner-Denver Company (through L. L. Leigh): rock drill, stoping (1978.0208).
John Garver: 60 puzzles (1978.0067).
Mrs. Margaret L. Gaver: collection of business letters, patents & engineering data from Rust Boiler Company, oil painting of Mr. Rust by Charles Curranina in 1926, and a service medal of the US Naval Campaign, West Indies, 1898 (1978.0333).
William Charles Geasa: cotton service WW I uniform with accessories and 3 cartridges (1978.0009).
General Telephone Company of Michigan (through Robert M. Urdiales) : presidential trip switchboard (1978.0317).
Georgian Lighting Studios, Incorporated (through Judy K. Hymes): 2 hand lamps (1977.0671).
Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, Deutsches Bundespostmuseum: presentation folder commemorating the one-hundredth anniversary of the German telephone (Oct. 13, ’77) (1978.0408).
John R. Gerwig, Jr.: hand tools including several foot-powered machine tools (1977.1101).
J. E. Gherson: woman’s beach outfit, c. 1950 (320861.00).
Mrs. Marlyn C. Gibbons (through William J. Ellenberger): German Haenel air pistol with two boxes of pellets (1978.0173).
Virginia Gibson: bottle in box with insert (1977.1028).
Evelyn H. Gilbert: woman’s two-piece dress, c. 1898 (1977.1164).
Mrs. Eileen K. Gililland in memory of her husband Dr. Norman Gililland: French Perrin revolving cylinder rifle (323486.00).
Cora Ginsberg: man’s vest, c. 1850 (1977.0309).
Virginia Winston Jackson Gleim: woman’s memorial pendant, 1858-65, jewelry box, 1858-65, woman’s handkerchief holder, 1869, and 2 woman’s bracelets, 1865-69 (323595.00).
Rino Gnesi: Bicentennial Mennucci macaroni poster (1977.0818).
Valerie A. Goddard: woman’s clothing items including dress, 1974, shoes, 1974, 2 dresses, 1976, and shoes, 1975 (1978.0156).
Rachel M. Goetz: decorated eggshell “Footnotes to History” (1977.1190).
The Honorable Juanita W. Goggins: broadside, biographical sketch, political campaign button, advertising card, bumper sticker, and poster from the donor’s successful campaign for the South Carolina State House of Representatives in 1974 (1977.0964).
James M. Goode: 4 mezzotint engravings entitled “English Merchant” by Valentine Green, “Simon Harcourt” by Ed Fisher after Robert Hunter, “Mrs. Bunbury” by James Watson after Reynolds, and “Charles James Fox” by John Jones after Reynolds (1977.1183); 2 mezzotint engravings entitled “King Charles the First” by Josiah Boydell after a painting by Van Dyke and “Monsieur De St. George” by W. Ward after a painting by M. Brown (1977.1224).
Mrs. George S. Goolsby: 2 woman’s dresses, infant’s robe, infant’s slip, infant’s dress, 4 girl’s dresses, pair of woman’s shoes, woman’s hat, and woman’s jacket (318990.00).
Elizabeth C. Grant: bi-centennial patch and bi-centennial banner (1977.0021).
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Greenberg: women’s clothing items including threepiece suit c. 1971; dress c. 1965-66; two-piece suit, 1955; dress, 1955; hat, 1955; shoes, 1971, and scarf 1955 (1977.0175).
George H. Greidinger, M.D.: used Australian Aerogram, color proof sheet of
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 463

<<<Page: 473>>>

Cuba, 278 commercially used worldwide covers, 169 worldwide First Day covers, 24 used post cards of the world, 2 souvenir sheets of Ryukyu Islands, unused souvenir sheet of Spain (Spanish Civil War issue), and 6 used Spanish Civil War stamps (1978.0015).
Jeanette A. Griver: official observer's badge for the National Women’s Conference, Houston, Texas, Nov. 18-21, 1977, for the donor (1978.0556).
Mrs. Doris Grondin in memory of Eugene Roland Grondin: bow drill and ebony smoothing plane (1977.0919).
Mrs. Elgin Groseclose: 1 Jacquard woven coverlet, 2 unfinished stockings, and 27 needlework tools (1978.0634).
Ruth E. Grout: child’s shoes, 1859, and woman’s shoes (sample), 1880s (1977.0696).
Mrs. Winifred M. Grout: 4 women’s dresses and woman’s suit (309722.00).
Robert L. Grover: collection of 126 ancient coins from Roman Alexandria (1977.1270).
Government of Guam, Guam Guard Mail (through Robert L. Haddock): 4 mint souvenir sheets of Guam Guard Mail stamps and 225 mint Guam Guard Mail stamps (1978.0221).
Eugenie Guilmette: 3 US covers with 1857, 1859, and 1860 stamps (1978.0243).
Dona Guimaraes: woman’s corset, 1910-15 (1977.0320); woman’s garter belt, 1978 (1978.0582).
Dorothy Guimaraes (through Dona Guimaraes): man’s collar bag, c. 1912 (1978.0164); 50 needlework tools and accessories, fabrics and needlework (1977.0179); grey velvet housewife (1978.0164).
Estate of Mrs. Elizabeth Guinan in memory of George Weber (through Michael Guinan): “B flat” and “A” clarinets by Oehler (1977.1060).
Government of the Republic of Guinea (through Agence Philatelique de la Republique de Guinee): 27 mint postage stamps and 8 used postage stamps from Guinea (1977.1013) ; 53 mint postage stamps and 9 used postage stamps all from Guinea (1978.0241).
Gulf Research & Development Co. (through Dr. R. D. Wycoff): illustration of Earth’s magnetic field (314503.00); (through Dr. Sigmund Hammer): map of the Nash Dome (314507.00).
Hadassah, the women’s Zionist Organization of America (through Mrs. Gerald Shukow): pamphlet, button, and press release related to International Women’s Year (1978.0567).
Elizabeth B. Hagler: man’s 2-piece suit, c. 1935 (1977.0649).
Ralph C. Haltiwanger: 2 US Army Field Rations, Type C, B-unit (1978.0257).
Lila Leech Hambright: woman’s fan, 1876 (1977.1096).
Henry Hamelly: 6 US first day covers, 1976, and 9 US first day covers 1977 (1978.0085); 10 US first day covers, issue of 1977, and 3 US first day covers, issue of 1978 (1978.0544).
Joyce E. Hamula: anti-ERA advertising card and button (1978.0313).
David A. Hanks: folding chair and child’s bed (1978.0179).
Mrs. Richard V. Hare: woman’s dress, 1958, and woman’s dress, 1953 (1977.0286).
Mrs. Geneva Sullivan Harriman: pair of hand cards for carding cotton, wood with metal teeth in leather base (1978.0617).
William G. Harrington and Melissa A. Thompson: a poster, an E.R.A. sticker, and 18 E.R.A. political buttons (1977.1051).
Julian H. Harris: 3 pages of sketches, studies made for the Jimmy Carter Inaugural Medal (1978.0022).
Ruth K. Harris: woman’s dress, 1966 (1977.0997).
Samuel E. Harris, Jr.: woman’s hat, 1967-68 (1977.0947).
Edward R. Harrison: 2 1964 speeches of Nelson Rockefeller, 1 speech of Barry Goldwater, 1964 (1978.0595).
Norman R. Hast: iron rail (314521.00).
464 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 474>>>

John R. Haynsworth: electric hot plate (1978.0245).
Toni Goddard Head: felt sash “Florida Now” (1977.0889).
Jon W. Hean (through Mrs. Kathryn U. Hean): US national flag—4e6-star, 1908-12 (1977.1099).
Raymond Hebert: woman’s dress, 1962 (1978.0126).
Margaret Seaton Heck: woman’s shoes, 1945—48 (1978.0072).
Mrs. Neva B. Hecker: 2 game plates, design of state service of President Rutherford B. Hayes—Ptarmigan’s bath and prairie hen (1977.0904).
Jascha Heifetz: 6,044 mint postage stamps of the world, 142 used postage stamps of the world, 95 mint souvenir sheets of the world, 2 used souvenir sheets of the world, 9 worldwide pieces of postal stationery, 106 essays and proofs of stamps, all items connected with music, and 23 miscellaneous labels and sheet music connected with the collection (1978.0197).
Helen Henderson: photograph of the Woman Suffrage Convention in Portland, Oregon, 1905 (1978.0486).
Arthur G. Henning, Inc.: model of schooner yacht “America” (1978.0376).
Sharon Lee Henson: handout (Xerox) “What is a Farmer?” (1978.0566).
Wiliam K. Henson: olive drab field jacket, model 1950 (1977.1182).
Caroline L. Herzenberg: poster from the National Organization for Women Convention, Detroit, 1977 (1978.0277).
Jacques J. and Mrs. Lee B. Hess: woman’s dress with jacket, 1933; woman’s hat, 1933; woman’s shoes, 1933, and man’s 3-piece suit, 1933 (316456.00). Mrs. Vera Hickman: 37 45-rpm records, 3 45-rpm record sets, and a record
album for 10 records (1978.0264).
Duane Hillmer: album containing counterfeit and reprint stamps showing the work of the master forger, Francois Founier (1978.0528).
Bernard C. Hinden: refrigeration compressor (1977.1292).
Marion L. Hobart: Wisconsin State IWY materials including 2 directories, 2 programs of resolutions, a songsheet, a pamphlet, and a name tag (1978.0127).
Edward P. Hock and Family: “Pony Express” cover dated Jan. 30, 1974, and 2 “Pony Express” covers dated Jan. 23, 1976 (1978.0110).
John N. Hoffman: Alnor velometer (1978.0664); US cream separator poster (1978.0386).
William D. Hogan: brass paperweight and a brass matchbox (1978.0289).
Donald Hoke: Icypi scoop (ice cream scoop) (1977.1102); presser and “Takeup” reel for electric iron (1977.1181); Weston voltmeter (1977.1196).
Frank Holthoff: red agricultural strike cap (1978.0095).
Jon Holtzman: 2 ancient Roman imperial medallions (1978.0019); ancient Roman medallion struck in the name of Marcus Aurelius (1978.0021); ancient Roman medallion struck in the name of the emperor Antoninus Pius (1978.0025).
The Hoover Company, Hoover Worldwide Corporation (through J. S. Hoover): Warner vacuum cleaner, early twentieth century (1977.1031).
George J. Hopkins, Jr.: 10 fulgurite fragments found at Fort McCoy, Wisconsin (1978.0002).
Barbara E. Horsky: girl’s dress, 1876-78 (320694.00).
Mary Ferebee Howard: woman’s evening dress, 1938; woman’s shoes and purse, 1937 (320011.00).
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Howard: telegram dated May 25, 1907, from Mary E. Barber, sister of Mrs. McKinley, to A. J. Duncan, her brother-in-law, about her final illness, telegram dated May 26, 1907, from George B. Cortelyou to Mr. Duncan announcing the death of Mrs. McKinley, and a handwritten telegram dated September 8, 1901, from Buffalo, N.Y., to Mr. Jack Duncan regarding President McKinley’s condition (1977.0769).
Ruby Taylor Howard: British monocular with leather carrying case (1977 0364).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 465

<<<Page: 475>>>

Dr. Richard H. Howland: needle and thread case, needle, thread, and safetypin case, darning bag, crocheted bag, and crochet(?) hook (1977.1160); journal of European tour, 1904 (1977.0914); adjustable armchair (1978.0177) ; kitchen table, 2 side chairs, and a bill of sale for these items (1978.0178).
The J. L. Hudson Co. (through Joseph L. Hudson, Jr.): US 50-star national flag flown outside the J. L. Hudson Co. (1977.0657).
Ellen Roney Hughes: slap stick (1977.1006); poster, “McKay / The Better Way” (1977.1116); theater program “Othello / The Playbill / For the Sam S. Shubert Theatre” starring Paul Robeson (1978.0672); 2 Della Robbia wall plaques (1977.0966).
Patricia D. Hughes: ice-boating costume including a sweater, mask, hood, dickey, 3 pairs of mittens, 3 pairs of socks, and a pair of boots (1978.0810).
Roger B. Huntman: WW II German banner (1977.0398).
Col. Alfred R. Hurley, USAF: tropical combat boots (1977.0732).
Robert A. Hut: bronze seated figure of Abraham Lincoln (1978.0029).
Anna and Milton H. Hutchinson: 14 Edison discs (1978.0312).
Professor G. Evelyn Hutchinson: 1,198 mint postal strike stamps, 267 postal strike covers, 38 mint postal strike souvenir sheets, 1 embossed proof of a postal strike stamp, and 2 unexploded postal strike booklets of stamps all British (1978.0013).
Sarah S. Hutchinson: woman’s lounging outfit (1977.1066).
Mrs. Nina S. Hyde: woman’s beach jacket, 1967, and woman’s dress, 1954 (322600.00).
Louis M. Hyreman: see Joan M. Main.
Ideas For Industry (through L. C. Shagam): bumper sticker “Let’s Get Going” (1977.0820).
Ingersoll-Rand Company (through Joseph J. Kachurak): steam pump, Simplex (1978.0343); (through Lowell L. Lauver): 16 pneumatic jackhammers, 25 pneumatic rock drills, 4 pneumatic pavement breakers, 3 rock drills, 8 pneumatic stopping drills, air compressor and original drawings about rock drilling by Batchelor (1978.0480).
Lowell Innes: “Shell and Circle” pattern glass plate, c. 1830-40 (1977.1077).
International Harvester (through John Davies): 9 Ertl toys including minitractor, wagon for mini-tractor, grain and livestock truck, hay rake, grain drill, tandem disc, 4-bottom plow, scout traveler, #1568 tractor, and 3 International Harvester caps (1977.0989).
Israel Broadcasting Authority (through Larry Magne): Standard Electric Co. microphone (1978.0407).
State of Israel, Ministry of Posts (through the Director General): First Day covers of Israel, 13 from 1976 and 11 from 1977 (1977.0958); 7 First Day covers, 1977 issues and 1 mint postage stamp, 1977 issue, all from Israel (1978.0389).
Jerome P. Jackson, Jr.: clepsydra with brass frame and wooden base (1978.0606).
Mr. and Mrs. Albert F. James: Smith Premier typewriter, c. 1889-90 (1978.0626).
Mrs. Janet R. James (in memory of James Ferguson): covered nested cup weights (1978.0489).
Jantzen, Inc. (through Donald L. Smith): woman’s clothing items including bathing suit, 1941, bathing suit, 1976, 2 blouses, 1976, trousers, 1976, and man’s clothing items including 2 bathing suits, 1976, bathing suit, 1975, 2 shirts, 1976, shirt, 1974, jacket, 1976, trousers, 1976, and a golf sweater (1977.0184); (through Patricia J. Jensen): woman’s bathing suit, man’s tennis shorts, man’s tennis shirt, man’s trousers, man’s shirt, and man’s sweater all from 1977 (1978.0453).
Leon Jaworski: items associated with the Watergate hearings including the donor’s identification card, pen set and notebook, a photograph, and 2 autographed copies of briefs (1977.0656).
466 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 476>>>

Jewish Welfare Board: poster, “Don’t Worry, He’s All Right,” modern reproduction of a Nov. 11, 1918, Jewish Welfare Board, United War Work poster (1977.0971).
Joel’s Flat Field: hand-forged spade bit, 1865 model (314519.00).
Charles E. Johnson: The Blue Book of the John Birch Society by Robert Welch, 1961 (1978.0192).
E. F. Johnson Company (through E. F. Johnson): Viking amateur CW transmitter. (1977.0669).
H. & R. Johnson, Ceramic Tile Mfg. (through the Company Director and Derek H. Johnson): wine coaster and 4 drink mats (1978.0191).
Conover Hunt Jones: woman’s 2-piece dress, originally 1765-85 (1977.1161).
Mrs. Katherine Kaczmarek: typed record of the Atlantic crossings of the USS Comfort; photograph of the USS Comfort with original signatures of the men who served aboard her from the time of her commissioning to March 18, 1919; black and white print and negative of the photograph of the USS Comfort; war service certificate; honorable discharge; certificate of discharge and testimonial for B. H. Kaczmarek (1977.1019).
Merrill S. Kaplan: Dickeson Continental dollars, 2 in silver and 2 in goldene (1978.0023).
Stephen P. Kaplan: 15 unused postage stamps of Palestine issued under British administration in 1922 and 5 unused postage stamps of Palestine issued during 1927-45 (1978.0529).
June C. Karamessines: See Vera C. Parmiter.
Mrs. David B. Karrick: nineteenth-century Kurdish Village-type rug (1977.0462).
Jerome J. Kaspar: collection of 45 iron molder’s tools and wooden tool box (1978.0441).
James M. Kater: Leica I 35mm camera manufactured by Ernst Leitz, Wetzlar, Germany, 1926-27 (1978.0227).
Arlyne Katz: T-shirt “N.Y. State women’s meeting—Albany, N.Y. 1977.” (1978.0114).
Kenmore Stamp Company (through Henry Adams): 83 US covers, 4 Canadian covers, and 5 British covers all commemorating the American Revolution Bicentennial (1978.0153).
Dr. Ralph B. Kennard: Interferometer, sodium arc lamp, recording thermograph, and recording hygrograph (1978.0207).
Mrs. Verna Rudd Kenvin: see Joan W. Smith.
Kerr-McGhee (through E. H. Bennett): offshore drilling rig model (322789.00).
Calvin and Gwyn Key: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, metal threaded tops (1978.0448).
Mrs. Fenton Keyes: damask tablecloth (408523.00).
Claudia B. Kidwell: pair of roller skates (1977.1104).
Mrs. Theodora S. King: brass compass from the pilot house of the Spanish cruiser Don Juan de Austria (1977.0755).
William S. King: glass preserve jar (1978.0066).
Myron Kinley: film, fighting fire at Akwaz (314499.00).
Frank Klapthor: embroidered, canvas work pocket book (1978.0083).
Gustave Knoeckel: 8 progressive color proofs of the 1975 “Florex’” stamp exhibition souvenir card and an unused “Florex 1975” cacheted envelope (1978.0222).
Mrs. Pearl E. Kommer, Vincent Kommer, and Mrs. Karen Unger in memory of Fred A. Kommer: model of Advance-Rumely steam engine (1977.1185). Koppers Co., Inc. (through D. L. Devries): indicator, steam engine (1978.0167) ; (through Thomas J. Gately): gas meter and viscosimeter (1978.0078); (through B. W. Hinchliffe): model of Kopper’s Becker coke oven (314520.00).
Dr. Loren Kreck: nineteenth-century song sheet, “Our Red, White and Blue” (1977.0973).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 467

<<<Page: 477>>>

Kreisler Group, Inc. (through Stuart Kreisler): woman’s jacket, trousers, blouse, and vest from 1976 (1977.0311).
Neil K. Kroschel: 7 first day covers of Australia, 241 used postage stamps of Australia, 25 mint postage stamps of Australia, 9 used stamps of Australian Antarctic Territory, 5 mint postage stamps of Cocos Islands, 25 used postage stamps of Papua and New Guinea, 30 used postage stamps of New Zealand, and 1 mint postage stamp of New Zealand (1977.1112); 7 First Day covers, 23 mint and 324 used postage stamps of the British Oceana (1978.0370); 2 commemorative covers, 9 mint postage stamps, 89 used postage stamps, all from Australia, and 13 used postage stamps of Papua and New Guinea (1978.0412).
Elizabeth Anne and J. M. Kuykendall: wocden spool cabinet with six storage drawers (1977.1035).
Lake Carriers’ Association (through Vice Admiral Paul F. Trimble, USCG (Ret)): model of Great Lakes self-unloading ore carrier “James E. Barker’ (1978.0374).
Mrs. Martha Landman: fragment of silk printed curtain (1978.0616).
Mrs. Mary Lane: guidebook “Eighty Views of Washington” (1978.0281).
John M. Lapp: paint press, c. 1875 (1978.0369).
Roger H. Lapp in memory of his father Claude Jerome Lapp: hunting bow, one of 6 bows taken on Byrd Antartic Expedition, 1933, and 4 spools of Barbour’s pure flax shoe thread used in the construction of bows (1977.0502).
Joy E. Larrabee (through Lloyd I. Turrentine): ceramic doll head and toy teddy bear, c. 1903 (1977.0528).
Mrs. Jane M. and Dr. K. Charles Latven: obstetrical forceps (1978.0228).
Laurel Highland Telephone Company (through Mary Lou Barnhart and J. Paul Kalp): telephone wire, copper clad steel (1977.1075).
Isabelle Russell Lavagnino: infant’s coat, 1867 (1977.0568).
Lieut. Col. Benjamin T. Layton, USAR Ret: US Army Decoration including bronze star medal, bar ribbon, lapel pin, and box (1978.0008); Army green uniform coat, officer; Red Ball Express, and 2 Red Ball Express patches (1978.0429).
The League of Women Voters of the United States (through Nancy Thompson): objects associated with the August 26, 1977, Women’s Equality Day March, Washington, D.C. includes 2 posters and 6 handouts (1977.0937).
Mrs. James T. Leahan in memory of J. Edmund Stanton: canal boat lantern (1978.0291).
Allan and Marilyn Lee: stamps depicting worldwide maps housed in 27 albums and 4 small boxes, comprising 10,579 items (1977.1119).
Mrs. Louis Emerson Lee: woman’s dress, shawl, shoes, gloves, purse, and hat from 1932 (317959.00).
William G. Lee: train order hoop, c. 1950 (1978.0475).
Edna G. Leidinger (through Lauren D. Studebaker): American fife (1977.1108).
Lenox, Incorporated (through Robert J. Sullivan): Lenox porcelain plate decorated with a pair of robins, daffodils, and apple blossoms (1977.1046). Mrs. Frances D. Lesser: 11 cabinet photographs by J. S. Wooley and a cabinet photograph display frame with five openings for photographs (1977.0909).
Mrs. Hope Anthony Levy: wooden hetchel with 67 metal spikes (1978.0118).
The Lifwynn Foundation (through Hans Syz, M.D.): wax paper kymograph (1978.0624).
Elizabeth Neely Linck: tintype of Elizabeth Bird Brookes, c. 1863 and a silver print of an infant in baby carriage with older child standing, 1900 (1978.0406).
Lincoln Land 20-30-40 Society (through Sheila L. Arth): pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops (1978.0447).
468 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 478>>>

H.L. Lindquist: 728 US and foreign First Day covers (1977.1085); 1628 First Day covers of the world (1977.1129).
Jay Lloyd: stereo viewer and 86 German training stereograms (1977.0758)
Josephine J. Lloyd: woman’s bracelet and earrings, both 1840-50. (1977.1094).
Robert Locurto: collection of 19 contraceptives and patent medicines (1977.0941).
Edith Safe Loebs: canvas work bench cover, gros point and petit point in wool (1978.0082).
Claude and Leo J. Loesch (through John J. Dierbeck, Jr): Cyclo-planter (1978.0387).
Mrs. Rebecca Pollard Logan: collection of glass consisting of 221 pieces, primarily of Mediterranean and Middle Eastern origin, dating from c. 1500 B.C. to c. 1900 A.D. (1977.0931).
Mrs. Gordon B. Logwood: bisque doll head (1977.0998).
Long Island Depression Glass Society (through Antoinette Hechtman): pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops (1978.0446).
Dr. Charles T. G. Looney: Colt semi-automatic pistol with case and 5 cartons of .22 caliber IR cartridges (1978.0314).
The Los Angeles Feminist Theatre (through Sarah Sappington Kuhn): flyer, program, and a script from ‘The Sirens” (1977.0999).
Ruth Ann Y. Loxley and Benjamin Rhees: woman’s dress and gloves, 1872 (1977.0697).
Benjamin R. Loye: objects from the 1976 Republican National Convention used by the Colorado delegation including 2 buttons, 2 leaflets, and a hat (1977.0519).
Edna Luginbuhl: woman’s coat, 1962 (1978.0125).
Mary W. Lund: poster, “Love It or Leave It” autographed by Eugene McCarthy and a quote by him concerning his philosophy (1978.0193).
Mary E. Lutz: feminist poster, classical type statue in center. ““WWomen Unite and Resist” lettered in black around all four sides (1977.0832).
John E. Lynch: license plate, 1976 (1978.0415).
Walter J. Lynch: 2 military passes—one for the military district of Alexandria, Virginia, June 18, 1861, and the other for Headquarters, Military Department of Washington, June 18, 1861 (323593.00).
Mrs. Alice Hall MacNulty (through The Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association of the Union, Christine Meadows): ceramic lid from a service of Nast china owned by President and Mrs. James Madison (1977.0791).
Donna T. Madigan: man’s trousers, 1971 (1978.0124).
Joseph Madruga: model of tuna purse seiner Madrugador (1978.0373).
Mrs. Helen Mahlum: 20 objects from the 1976 (unsuccessful) ratification campaign for The Equal Rights Amendment in North Carolina including pamphlets, leaflets, magazine, bumper sticker, button, stationery and envelope, and 15 ERA note cards (1977.0752).
Ernest C. Mailliard: 34-star flag allegedly flown over Fort Sumter, 1861 (1977.0939).
Joan M. Main, Helen M. Yurso, and Louise M. Hyreman: woman’s 1881 wedding dress; woman’s riding habit, 1880-89, and woman’s hat, c. 1928 (1977.0308).
Frances Helen Mains: red leatherette record album and 11 RCA Victor records (1978.0129).
Frank Marr: Envelope bearing Postage Meter Permit No. 1 cancellation (1977.1024).
Marshall Electronics, Inc., Clayton Division (through Franklin B. Zorn): Marshall’s family “Black Bag” home health kit, model # 40 (1978.0051). Richard G. Marshall: Daven television viewer, c. 1931 and Daven scanning
disc, c. 1931 (1978.0229).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 469

<<<Page: 479>>>

Martin County Historical Society (through Mrs. Janet Hutchinson): man’s waistcoat, 1770-85 (1977.0811).
Sally V. Martinez: report “International Women’s Year California State Meeting,” tote bag, and a button “Viva La Mujer” (1978.0472).
Dr. L. Marton: pencil slide rule (1977.1120).
William J. Masters: 4 auto parts boxes, 14 battery molds, solder bar mold, spruce cutters, hub cap wrench, piston vise, and alignment jig (1978.0414).
Mrs. Rosalie L. Mathews: Belgian “Bull Pup” revolver. (1978.0174).
Mathis Welding and Machine Co., Inc.: see St. Regis Paper Co.
Teresa Lynn Matthews: political buttons from the Farm Workers Movement (1978.0073).
Mrs. Katherine Maxwell and Dr. Charles Frederick Frey: surgical kit, c. 1885— 90, and an autopsy kit (1978.0605).
Mrs. Annie May Mayfield in memory of George Noth: motor vehicle operator’s permit, 1899 (1978.0417).
Carl L. Mayhue: two pairs of men’s shoes, 1935-40 (316503.00).
Mrs. Edith P. Mayo: “Cause” and political materials, pamphlets, posters and handouts. Topics include: women, blacks, consumers, economics, campaigns, Vietnam, religion and government (1977.0295); United Farm Workers buttons (1978.0565); buttons from the National Organization of Women (1978.0275); newspaper—“Quicksilver Times,” vol. III, no. 7, April 14-27, 1971 (1978.0461).
Henry C. Mayo: “Billy Beer” can (1978.0250).
McCloskey Varnish Company (through J. Richard Kiefer, Jr.): “Man O’ War Ultra Spar” varnish and set of 2 cans of liquid wood filler (1978.0515).
Mrs. Adelaide D. McDonough: cotton pieced-work quilt (1978.0788).
Robert L. McFerren: pneumatic displacement pumping system including compressor, pump chamber, set of 3 gauges, set of 2 regulators, and a breather pipe (1977.1134).
McKinley Senior High School (through Howard S. White): Kipp generator, “KIMAX” and flash point tester ,“IAG” (1978.0799).
The Medical Supply Center (through William Radoff): record book of receipts and sales of intoxicating liquors, Treasury Dept., 1931, and a prescription, National Prohibition Act, 10/6/33 (1978.0274).
Elizabeth Eudora Medinger (through A. P. Crenshaw III): oil portrait of Chief Engineer James Wilson King, USN (1977.1043).
Abby Merchant: woman’s cape, c. 1890 (1977.0287).
Judith Meuli: 23 items consisting of jewelry, catalog, and newspapers relating to the Women’s Movement (1978.0476).
Robert B. Meyer, Jr.: Argus 35mm Rangefinder camera with leather field case, flash attachment, and instruction booklet (1978.0233).
Mary S. Michehl: woman’s clothing items from 1925 including a wedding dress, wedding shoes, stockings, girdle, teddy, lounging jacket, slippers, and shoe trees (323491.00).
Michigan State IWY Meeting (through Dorothy Brush): materials relating to the Michigan State IWY Meeting including 4 booklets, a poster, information sheet, handout, plastic bag, and a button (1977.1054).
Charles W. Millard: 2 war ration books no. 3, WW II (1978.0539).
Mrs. Mabel G. B. Millen (through William C. Boersma): 3 round valve check balls in brass, a four pounder common shell, and a piece of grape shot (1977.0975).
Andrew P. Miller and Robert D. Miller: 34 pieces of eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth century embroidery (1978.0382).
Frank C. and Dorothea S. Miller: dress, nightgown, woman’s suit, 2 bags, blouse, hat, pair of shoes, handkerchief, pair of gloves, man’s pajamas, and man’s trousers (318019.00).
470 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 480>>>

Mrs. Gretchen M. Miller: WW II women’s Army Corps uniforms worn by the donor (323640.00).
J. Jefferson Miller II: “New Bible Cards” game, 1887 (1977.0723); Wedgewood medallion, stoneware with portrait bust of Beethoven in relief (1977.1045). Mrs. Mary J. Miller: 3 postmaster’s appointments for Nobel E. Welch, dates
are Jan. 6, 1882, Dec. 27, 1889, and May 7, 1902 (1978.0525).
Milwaukee Brewers Baseball Club (through Thomas J. Ferguson): baseball uniform worn by Hank Aaron in 1975 season. Includes shirt, trousers, footless stockings, and hat (1977.1133).
The Honorable Patsy T. Mink: buttons, bumper stickers, handouts, letters, journals, and reprints, about the elective campaigns for national office, and the congressional career of US Congresswoman Patsy T. Mink (1977.0857).
Mrs. Edward B. Mitchell: man’s 2-piece suit, 1935; man’s 3-piece suit, 1936, and man’s hat, c. 1935 (319950.00).
Government of Monaco (through H. Chiavassa): 88 mint postage stamps and 2 mint souvenir sheets of Monaco (1977.0961); Office des Emissions de Timbres-Posts (through J. Chivassa): 52 mint postage stamps of Monaco (1978.0409).
Connie and Jerry Monarch: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops (1978.0035).
Shirley Monson: mug and leaflet of the Michigan ERAmerica Group (1978.0512).
R. Alexander Montgomery, Lieut. Comdr., USNR (Ret.) (through Harold L. Peterson).: US long range rifle (1978.0323).
Benjamin Moore & Company (through J. E. Lynch) : Caleimine brush (1978.0514).
Annabelle Sylvester Moore: certificate of marriage, 1878 (1977.0730); (through Paul W. Corrigan): group of three carpet designs (1977.1105).
Lee C. Moore Corporation (through J. R. Woolslayer): rig profiles (schematic drawing, 1860-1930) (314510.00).
Lorna L. Morfitt: woman’s wedding dress, 1915; 3 ribbons, 1915; child’s shoes c. 1919; child’s shoes c. 1902-5 (319864.00).
Dorothy and Ralph Morgan: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Hazel Atlas Glass Co. (1978.0001).
John W. Moroney: ship models including three-mast schooner Ed McWilliams, two mast row and sail boat, and Tancook whaler (1978.0383).
Mrs. J. R. Morris: collection of rail (323571.00).
Joan Morris: woman’s ice skating outfit, 1935-36, woman’s scarf, 1929-33, 2 pairs of woman’s gloves, 1933, man’s trousers hanger, c. 1905-10, and man’s shorts, 1920-29 (1977.0569).
William G. D. Morrison: woman’s dress, c. 1830 (322676.00).
Dennis P. Mroczkowski: plastic canteen, 1943 (1977.0761) ; M 1949 Arctic sleeping bag (1978.0396).
Dr. Walter Mueller: notebooks, January 1926 to July 1929 relating to Zaehlrohr (1977.0323).
Carolyn J. Mugar (through Stephen P. Mugar): Galilaean Giovilabio replica (1977.0878).
Mrs. Ollie Murphy (through Mrs. Clarine Brinkley): Ku Klux Klan robe and hood (1977.0750).
Joe B. Murray: US Navy enlisted man’s dress blue uniform jumper and trousers (1977.0974).
Mrs. John H. Murray: folder containing illustrated magazine covers from the Journal, House Beautiful, and the Saturday Evening Post, designed by Norman Rockwell, Preston, Drew, Parker, and others, dating from 1926 to 1955 (1977.0504) ; clear colorless glass vase, clear colorless pressed glass creamer; small earthenware tankard; earthenware creamer; large earthenware mug,
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 471

<<<Page: 481>>>

and a large beverage server with ice compartment (1977.1197); painted child’s rocking chair, coffee pot, coffin lid tray, deed box, trinket box, mirror with reeded frame, and water-color folk painting (1977.1227); stoneware jar with cobalt-blue illustration of a woman carrying an umbrella (1978.0064) ; molded cake or butter crock, earthenware dish, Rockingham-glazed pan, stoneware ink or blacking bottle, dark-glazed stoneware jug, Rockinghamglazed shaving mug and Rockingham-glazed soap dish (1978.0111); 14 napkins, a Madiera napkin box, 2 handkerchief cases, 18 towels, a needlework pattern, a bread cover, a framed silhouette picture, 2 samplers, a needlework picture and a pieced work quilt square (1978.0627).
Patrick J. Murray: portions of the Cowing House (323585.00).
Mrs. George W. S. Musgrave: boy’s dress, 1873 (320826.00).
Maurice Musler: Brush model BK-401 tape recorder with microphone (1977.0895).
Dr. Raymond R. Myers (through Gerould Allyn): Bingham viscometer (1978.0434).
Dr. Perham C. Nahl: 274 United States first flight covers from contract Air Mail Route No. 12 (1978.0526).
The Naito Museum of Pharmaceutical Science and Industry, The Naito Foundation (through Dr. Nobuo Aoki): Japanese herb cutter and pulverizer of the Edo era (1977.1293).
Yuji Naito: Japanese souvenir sheets commemorating: the Golden Jubilee of the Imperial Marriage, 1974; the Imperial visit to the United States, 1975, and the fiftieth anniversary of the Emperor’s enthronement, 1975 (1977.1205).
The National Association of Postmasters of the United States (through John C. Goodman): 30,174 US postal cards bearing the postmarks of US post offices in service in Bicentennial 1976 (1978.0263).
National Association of Realtors (through P. C. Smaby): original pastel painting of “Uncle Sam” by Herbert Noxon (1977.0911).
National Commission on the Observance of INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S YEAR (IWY): 69 items relating to the International Women’s Year, such as: cassette tapes, video tapes, booklets, posters, and promotional material (1978.0307).
National Congress of American Indians (through George Waters): 2 booklets, a handout, a book, and a paper concerning Indian affairs (1977.1055).
National Organization of Women (through Sandra R. Rath and Elizabeth Leopold): bandanna and badge relating to the NOW organization (1978.0308).
National Railway Historical Society, Washington Chapter (through Harry H. Olmsted): locomotive headlight (1978.0294).
Henry Naylor: lathe, pattern maker’s style (1978.0625).
NBC News (through Donald Meaney): stage set used for the “Meet the Press” TV show which includes 3 desks, 5 chairs, 2 logos, and a television camera with stand and equipment (1978.0100).
Mrs. Esther K. Nehls: meat chopper (1978.0262).
Mortimer L. Neinken: group of ancient Roman and Greco-Roman bronze coins, including large medallions (1977.1271); collection of ancient Greek and Roman and Italian coins (1977.1272).
Government of The Netherlands (through A. W. van Ommeren): 101 mint postage stamps and 2 mint souvenir sheets all of The Netherlands (1977.0952); unused postal card, 3 used postage stamps, unused souvenir sheet, 68 unused semi-postal stamps, and 78 unused postage stamps all of The Netherlands (1978.0649).
Netherlands Antilles (through The Honorable J. J. Beaujon and the Office of the Vice President of the United States): oil painting, The First Official Salute to the American Flag, 1776 (1978.0283).
472. / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 482>>>

Netherlands Postal and Telecommunications Service (through Dr. A. W. Van Ommeren): 48 mint postage stamps of The Netherlands (1978.0322).
The New Jersey Zinc Company (through J. W. Brown): grate furnace (1978.0477).
Government of New Zealand, Post Office Philatelic Bureau (through A. J. Murray): 29 mint postage stamps and 2 mint souvenir sheets all from New Zealand (1977.1016); 8 mint postage stamps of New Zealand (1978.0391).
Government of Nicaragua (through William D. Cox): 3 mint souvenir sheets and a mint sheet of airmail stamps all of Nicaragua (1978.0115).
Mary Burke Nicholas: New York State IWY materials including a circular and 2 programs (1978.0568).
Emmet A. Nichols: bullet, U.S. Gardiner explosive (1978.0175).
Rosswell C. Nichols: man’s 3 piece suit (318928.00).
Mrs. C. C. Nikiforoff (through Dr. D. M. Cochran): No. 2C Brownie camera, Model A, manufactured by Eastman Kodak Co., 1917-34 (1978.0007).
Government of Niue, Niue Post Office (through L. Douglas): 2 mint souvenir sheets, 2 First Day covers, 10 used postage stamps, and 19 mint postage stamps all from Niue (1977.0255); 12 First Day covers, 3 mint postage stamps and a mint souvenir sheet all of Niue (1977.0954).
Norfolk and Western Railway Company (through Robert B. Claytor): centralized traffic control machine (1978.0422).
Elick N. Norris: electric toaster (1977.1195).
North Jersey Depression Glassers (through Ann Rutten): pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded, white plastic tops (1978.0445).
Government of Norway, Postens Generaldirektorat: 3 First Day covers, 1976, 3 First Day covers, 1977, DRAFNIA ’76 souvenir card, and 16 mint postage stamps all of Norway (1977.0953); 13 First Day covers and 22 mint postage stamps all of Norway (1978.0654).
Mr. and Mrs. R. Henry Norweb: Liberty head nickel struck at the United States Mint at Philadelphia, 1913 (1977.1199).
Donnel O’Flynn: set of 4 geometric models (1977.0809).
Frances Peebles Ocheltree: woman’s dress with jacket, c. 1935 (1977.0843).
Oglvy Benson & Mather Limited (through Douglas Haines): lithographic poster “Earlybird” by E. McKnight Kauffer, 1918 (1977.1193).
The Oklahoma Depression Era Club (through Mrs. Teri Stanek): pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops (1978.0413).
Smith Hempstone Oliver: woman’s hat, 1958-62 (1978.0580) ; 1 “Wizard” adder (1977.1159).
Mrs. Margaret Olmstead: game plates, design of the state china for the administration of President Rutherford B. Hayes—ruffed grouse and teal (1977.1048).
Omark Industries, Sporting Equipment Division, CCI-Speer Operations (through B. R. Robinson): bullet display board “US Bicentennial Commemoration” and bullet display board “1977 Current Model” both manufactured by the donor (1978.0663).
Optimist International (through Mr. Hugh H. Cranford): “Heritage ’76 Artpiece” commissioned by the donor (1977.1118).
Barbara Overman and Mrs. Sherril Rister: American Agriculture strike materials including 8 posters and 1 bumper sticker (1978.0584).
Mabel Owen: political materials, concerning voter turnout, inaugural activities, and campaigns, include 2 handouts, 2 T-shirts, 2 article reprints, a bumper sticker, and a photograph (1977.0851); Carter tote bag and a bumper sticker (1978.0004).
Jack Palmer: handout. “We’re All One Big American Family” (1978.0536).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 473

<<<Page: 483>>>

Paramount International Coin Corporation (through Barry L. Hile): Bank of Jamaica current set, series of 1976 (1978.0024).
Mrs. Cary Millholland Parker: embroidered picture in gold frame with black mat (1978.0792).
Mrs. Lillian Roger Parks: crocheted bedspread given to Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt in honor of the Centennial Central Exposition in Dallas in 1936 (1977.0790).
Mrs. Ruth M. Parks in memory of Roland Parks: mining items including hats, belts, plumb bobs, safety glasses, compasses, and lamps (1978.0288). Vera C. Parmiter and June C. Karamessines: receipt for a barrel of rice, March 27, 1779; receipt for a steer, Camden District of Militia, Jan. 2, 1779, and a
receipt for a hog, April 14, 1779 (1978.0432).
Wayne W. Parrish: 293 used foreign postage stamps, 24 mint foreign postage stamps, 2 mint souvenir labels from the 1960 INTERPEX Expo, 14 foreign flight postcards, 2 US flight postcards, 572 US and foreign first flight or First Day covers, and 1 US mint stamp (1977.1084).
Donald and Leslie Parrott: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Hocking Glass Co. (1977.1256).
The Pasquany Trust (through John Gemmill): dressmaker’s fluting iron 1877-95 (323446.00).
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: man’s shorts, 1967, man’s shirt, 1967, man’s 2-piece suit, 1970, and man’s shirt, 1967-69 (316434.00); collection of foreign coins and medals (1977.0795), woman’s clothing items including 2 chemises, c. 1900, combination, c. 1900, nightgown, c. 1900, corset, c. 1900; girdle, 1927— 29, belt, 1927-29, hat, 1959, boots, 1959, card case, 1840-95, and an infant’s bonnet, 1902 (1977.0180).
Harry J. Patton: 3 woman’s vests (underwear) and box (313773.00).
Joseph Jay Pavlik: baseball autographed by Mayor Daley and Bill Veeck, certificate of attendance for 1976 Cubs opener (autographed), official program to the Chicago Cubs game, and a photograph of Thomas Keane and Mayor Daley with the Mayor’s autograph (1977.0516).
Peach State Depression Glass Club, Inc. (through John W. Davis): place setting of green depression glass, molded in the “Georgian” pattern (1977.0913).
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Commission for Women (through Marie R. Keeney): document, proclamation by Governor Milton Shapp of Pennsylvania proclaiming 1975 as International Women’s Year (1977.1083).
Government of Penrhyn: First Day cover, 2 mint souvenir sheets, 6 mint postage stamps, and 8 used postage stamps all of Penrhyn Island (1977.0950); 3mint postage stampsand5 used postage stamps all from Penrhyn (1978.0249).
Nancy Mergenthaler Perkins: paper matrix for Heath’s typograph system consisting of a letter from Thomas T. Heath to Ottmar Mergenthaler, Oct. 15, 1898, proposing a business partnership for promotion of the typograph (1978.0523).
August A. Perse: First Day covers and souvenir folders of the world (1977.1128); First Day and commemorative covers of the US, UN, and foreign countries (1977.1187).
Martin J. A. Petersilia: 225 items concerning various political protest and activist causes (1977.0296).
Mrs. Dorothy P. Peterson, from the Harold L. Peterson Collection: suit of English pikeman’s armor bearing the cypher of James I. Consists of helmet, gorget, breastplate, backplate, and two tassets (1978.0217).
Nancy L. Peterson: Federal Woman’s Program IWY buttons (1978.0569).
Phillips Petroleum Company (through L. E. Fitzjarrald): drilling rig model (314525.00).
Betty and Claude Pickelsimer: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shak-
474 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 484>>>

ers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Jeannette Glass Co. (1977.1257).
Picker X-ray Corporation (through Walter Engle): Picker X-ray Exhibit (314511.00).
Ysabel Cooper Pine: woman’s dress, 1942-44 (1977.0812).
Plains Baptist Church (through Deacon P. J. Wise): hymn book signed by President Carter Aug. 7, 1977 (1977.0867).
Mr. and Mrs. B. S. Plyler: pint whiskey bottle, c. 1920 (1977.1030).
James W. Poisal, Jr., and Mrs. Sara Gilbert Poisal: document, Feb. 10, 1818, listing the division of the slaves and their families in the estate owned by a Mr. Burwell. Document lists names, ages, and value of slaves to be divided among the Burwell heirs and a bill of sale and eventual manumission of slaves from Cossander Merryman to Sarah Merryman (1977.1130).
Max Poole: button, “I support the American Agriculture Strike” (1978.0570).
Mrs. Alice James Pope: 4 woman’s caps, 1800-49, woman’s neckerchief, 1750— 1810, woman’s fan, 1820-80, and children’s boots, 1900-3 (1977.0048); gold pencils (1977.0574); silver napkin ring marked “L. Pope” (1977.0853).
Janis S. Popowicz in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Popowicz: slide rule (1977.1113).
Henry H. Porter: marine steam engine model, steam water pump model, toy vacuum engine, toy Bavarian traction engine, and a two-drum hoisting rig (1977.0920).
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Porter: woman’s stockings, woman’s 2-piece ensemble, girl’s coat, girl’s ballet slippers, 4 boy’s 2-piece suits, boy’s dress, boy’s coat, boy’s 4-piece suit, and boy’s suspenders (1977.0285).
Peter G. Powers: 2 American painted window seats, c. 1820—40 (1977.1106).
Mrs. D. Prendergast: 3 Grover Cleveland flags and 2 Benjamin Harrison Flags (1977.0831).
Mary G. Press: woman’s hair dryer instruction book (1978.0455).
Mrs. Sylvia Epstein Press: woman’s dress, 1929-30 (1977.0214).
Dale C. Price: oil-burning solar bicycle lamp (1978.0482).
Herb Quick: 2 silver print photographs “Cliff House, San Francisco, by Adolph Dittmer 3/7/1905” printed by the donor (1977.0742).
Annemarie B. Quigley: Milwaukee back brace (1977.1076).
Odelle Quigley: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Hazel Atlas Glass Co. (1977.1258).
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Raport: collection of patent models (1977.1216).
Thomas M. Raysor, Jr.: USAF gray woolen gloves (1978.0309).
Reading and Bates Offshore Drilling Company: model of drilling catamaran and copy of Patent Number 3127681 (314508.00).
Mrs. Ronald Reagan: woman’s two-piece dress, 1976 (1977.0086).
Charles A. Reams, Jr.: poster, American Humanist Association for E.R.A. (1977.0890).
Sharon Reiss: girl’s shoes, 1975 (1977.1220).
Mrs. Freda L. Reiter: 14 original drawings made by the donor for use on ABC TV News and a taped interview with the donor on Oct. 14, 1977, by Herbert C. Collins (1977.0681).
John P. Remensnyder: stoneware water cooler (1977.0337).
R. D. Remley: pressed glass salt shaker with flat, threaded, metal top with perforations in shapes of stars, circles, dashes and arcs (1978.0437); simulated leather needle case with silver lettering (1978.0633).
Dennis L. and Thomas P. Rettger: Linotype machine, composing stick and 8 chases (1977.0884).
Benjamin Rhees: see Ruth Ann Y. Loxley.
Zandra Rhodes: woman’s designer dress, 1977 (1978.0581).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 475

<<<Page: 485>>>

Dorothy M. Richardson: 1892 Harrison and Reid glass paperweight (1977.0705).
Edward J. Richardson: painted window screen, 1950-55 (1977.1117).
Mr. and Mrs. William Richardson in memory of the Kredell Family: US Navy enlisted man’s white uniform blouse, c. 1866-69 (1977.0888).
Mrs. Alma Fowler Richter: 2 New York State documents dated 1720, 3 stampless covers from Ulster County, N.Y., and an 1841 Postmaster’s appointment for New Hurley, N.Y. (1977.1014).
Rhea K. Riedel (through Robert T. Peckinpaugh): collection of mechanical pencils, miscellaneous writing instruments, and advertising pencils (1978.0438).
Yosef Riemer: see Robert S. Weiner.
Constance Kakavecos Riggs: miniature book, leather and marbelized paper binding, hand bound, with an enclosed copy of C54 mint postage stamp of the US (1978.0086).
Rijksmuseum voor de Geschiedenis der Natuurwetenschappen (through Dr. A. J. F. Gogelein): replica of Anton Van Leeuwenhoek microscope (1977.0653).
Jane M. Riley: materials from Maine State IWY meeting, includes pamphlets, handouts, bumper stickers, and badges (1978.0112).
Mrs. Sherril Rister: see Barbara Overman.
Dennis Roberts: Civil Rights material including 4 copies of the newspaper The Student Voice dating from Dec. 9, 1963, to Aug. 12, 1964, a typescript, ‘Diary of a Student Civil Rights Worker in Georgia, 1963, Working with Voter Registration Project on Legal Aspects,” a map of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 1964 Voter Registration Project, Mississippi, 1964, and 2 buttons, “One Man/One Vote/SNCC” and “A Free University in a Free South/SSOC” (1978.0123).
Edwin K. Robinson: electric hot plate, c. 1930 (1977.1005); group of foreign coins (1977.1179); Italian medal distributed at the Columbian Exposition in 1893 (1978.0017); US cover cancelled at the Pan-American Exposition, Buffalo, N.Y., in 1901 (1978.0090); combined pruning saw and chisel (1978.0096).
Ellis H. Robison: US Hard Times Tokens (1977.0520); group of US tokens, coins and related materials (1977.0777); collection of United States Transportation tokens (1977.0778); collection of United States patriotic tokens from the Civil War period (1977.0779); collection of United States storecards from the Civil War period (1977.0780) ; collection of English eighteenthcentury tokens (1977.0781); collection of coins, mostly French and English (1977.0782); group of United States medals (1977.0784); collection of early US storecards (1977.0793); collection of Canadian tokens and medals (1977.0794); collection of foreign coins (1977.1137); specialized collection of Canadian tokens and coins (1977.1177); specialized collection of Canadian coins (1977.1178); group of United States coins (1977.1186).
Col. Morris E. Rogat: wood iron (1977.0869).
Elaine Rogers: woman’s cloak, c. 1907 (1977.1124).
Government of Romania, Director General, Posts and Communications: 25 mint postage stamps, 5 mint souvenir sheets, and 20 used postage stamps all from Romania (1978.0196).
Mrs. Louise deLong Rompell: cup and saucer, commemorative design of the Lincoln china (1978.0520).
Dr. Morton H. Rose and Jean Y. Rose: English Wedgwood including teapot and cover, a pair of vases, game dish and cover, cream pitcher, wine ewer, footed dish, bowl, 2 vases with covers, flower pot, and a vase with plinth (1978.0044).
Charles W. Ross: Rollin White Arms Co. revolver, caliber .22 (1977.0463).
Dr. H. Justin Ross: set of full upper dentures, gold swagged with porcelain teeth on vulcanite base (1978.0189).
476 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 486>>>

Philip Ross: State of Georgia, Department of Commerce and Labor, day work card, November 1918, patriotic work card backing our boys at the front (1978.0535).
Wayne S. Roth: replica of the Liberty Bell made of inlaid wood (1978.0630).
Mrs. Edgar H. Rowland: man’s hat, 1940-55 (1977.0695).
Edward Rubin: US Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Merchant Service, and British Navy uniforms and uniform items, c. 1900-75 (1977.0846).
Mary Russell: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Jeannette Glass Co. (1977.1287).
Charles S. Ryland: circular porcelain dish marked Herold/Golden/Colo. (1977.0687).
Raul Santiago Acosta y Lara: Uruguay, N$5.00, 1976, commemorating the two-hundred-fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the city of Montevideo (1978.0028).
Mrs. C. P. Sawyer: 2 pamphlets, paperback, lantern slide, postcard, biography of Champ Clark, The Champ Clark Houn’ Dawg Song, and a brochure (1977.0899).
Sarah Harkins Sawyer (through Ruth D. Sawyer and Warren D. Sawyer): woman’s dress (with two bodices), 1865-69, and woman’s shawl, 1850-70 (1977.0089).
Mrs. Emily L. Schaffer: Earthenware teapot and cover decorated in relief with scenes commemorating Admiral Vernon’s victory over the Spanish Armada (1978.0045).
Carl H. Scheele: magnetic tape recorder (1977.1080).
Schlumberger Well Services (through Adam Perez): collection of oil-well measuring devices (314489.00).
Schlumberger Well Surveying Corp. (through Adam Perez): 2 well-logging models (314545.00).
Ralph A. Schoenfeld: 9 US stamps precancelled Mississippi (1978.0527).
Philip H. Schofield: street sign from the 1965 Inauguration (1977.0745).
Mrs. Katheryn Hess Schrenk: Pennsylvania German ceramic bird rattle (1977.1115).
Margaret Jean Schuddakopf: pamphlet “Women of Washington” (1978.0561).
Emma M. Schuerch: banner-silk, chenille, and metallic embroidery on rose silk taffeta (1978.0635).
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Schwartz: Boy’s vest, 1800-30, woman’s shoes, 1845-65, boy’s 2-piece suit, 1875-1900, man’s shirt, 1800-50, woman’s curling iron and stand, 1840-75 (1977.0038).
L. Albert Scipio II, Ph.D.: 5 WW I “US” collar insignia, Enlisted, and 4 WW I Infantry bronze collar insignia, Enlisted (1977.0844).
Adolph and Elizabeth A. Scolnick: US WW II field jacket, 1943 (1977.1020).
Andrew R. Scott: sheet music Keep Cool and Keep Coolidge (1978.0218).
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Seiderman: 2 microscopes and accessories (1978.0292).
T. L. Selke: lamp with sign from Laurel, Maryland, B&O Station (1978.0358).
Mrs. Cora Semoneit in memory of Harold G. Semoneit: memorabilia of the Junior Order United American Merchanics (1978.0334).
Anne Marie Serio: Relax Acizor kit with instruction book (1978.0639).
Julia M. Settle: girl’s shoes, c. 1892, infant’s booties, c. 1891, infant’s bonnet, c. 1891, infant’s dress, c. 1891, and girl’s two-piece dress, c. 1895 (1977.0767).
Helen C. Shaffer: woman’s blouse and hat, 1947 (318923.00).
Lucy C. Shain in memory of James Lewis Shain: collection of 947 jazz recordings (1978.0670).
Edwin J. Sharples: 6 WW II canteens with covers and cups, pair of WW II hickory skis, WW II trail snowshoes, WW II reversible ski parka, laminated ski poles, foot powder box dated 1917, straight wood medical litter, WW I canvas medical litter and an artillery rammer pole (1977.0339).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 477

<<<Page: 487>>>

Dr. Gordon Shortland: two sets of uncirculated Australian commemorative coins from 1977 (1978.0093).
Ted F. Silvey: 5 water faucet knobs and 2 gas cocks (1977.0727); Sinko windshield heater, c. 1930 and a Fulton windshield heater, c. 1932 (1978.0365); 1 “General 599” adding machine (1977.1142).
Mrs. John Farr Simmons: 3 man’s sweaters, 1896 (1977.0650); hat band, c. 1913 (1977.0650); woman’s coat, 1936, and woman’s jacket, 1935-47 (1977.0969).
F. M. Richard Simons: WW II wool field jacket (1977.0877).
Laura D. Singer: 9 photographs concerning the Florida State IWY Women's Conference (1978.0042).
Judge John J. Sirica: robe worn by donor during the Watergate trials (1977.1009).
Marlow L. and Mary E. Sisson: patent medicine—Dr. E. L. Robertson Eclectic Balsam” (1977.1039).
Judith E. and Laurence E. Skog: patented folding and adjustable bed spring (1977.0915).
M. G. Slater Corporation (through Hyman H. Slater): historic Israel-Egypt Peace Mission button (1978.0032).
Alexander B. and Nelson Slater: Carrier air conditioning system components (1978.0166).
Doris E. Slothower: 2 woman’s money belts, 1860-65 (1978.0579); bronze leather housewife with gold satin lining and a knitted beaded bag (1978.0621).
Walter B. Smalley: Underwood typewriter no. 5 (1977.1007).
W. F. Smart: button “I Support the American Agriculture Strike” and a cap “We Support Agriculture Strike” (1978.0562).
Edith H. Smith: certificate, United War Work Campaign 1918 (1978.0259).
Edith Weil Smith: lounge cover, cushion top, 3 handkerchief cases, all stamped cotton fabric, blunt needle and yarn, 2 sachets, cotton batting, and a pair of netted gloves (1978.0117).
Gary and Millie Smith: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, Jeannette Glass Co. (1977.1259).
George O. Smith: cutaway model of WW II proximity fuze (1977.1041).
Harriet Karll Smith: woman’s coat, 1920-29 (1977.1067).
Joan W. Smith and Mrs. Verna Rudd Kenvin: seizure order, 1784 (323619.00).
Col. Maude M. Smith, USA (Ret.): 4 pairs of dress shoes worn by donor while in service with the Army Nurse Corps (1978.0332).
Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of History and Technology, Department of Exhibits Design and Production: 3 plaster plaques—US Senate Seal, US House of Representatives Seal, US Supreme Court Seal (1977.0735).
Smithsonian Institution, Product Development Office (through Ann McClellan): small footed compote, plate, dish, and celery vase all in “broken column pattern,” c. 1888 (1977.0879); “coverlet made by Fieldcrest, copied from a coverlet in the collections (1978.0794); (through Mrs. Ann McC. Miller): pieces of upholstery fabric. Pattern is a reproduction of a coverlet in collections (1978.0789).
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service: 18 dolls (1977.0575).
Mr. and Mrs. Gustave Sokol: surgeon’s instrument kit, c. 1860s (1977.1103).
Karl H. Sommermeyer: 3 men’s ties, c. 1930-36 and a pair of man’s galoshes, 1938-39 (317926.00).
South African mint (through J. J. Groenwald): 8 South African coins struck in 1970 (1977.1265).
Anne M. and John E. South: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops manufactured by Federal Glass Co. (1978.0060).
478 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 488>>>

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (through Dana Swan): 76 pamphlets, posters, newspapers, photographs, and booklets on civil rights (1977.0691).
Southern Maryland Chapter of F.E.W. (through Jean H. Holden): Order Form “Support Ratification of ERA, Order Your Alice Paul March T-shirt .. .” and the T-shirt “Alice Paul March, Washington, D.C., August 26, 1977” (1978.0075).
Christopher J. Spanos: Xerox copy of Public Law 93-73 (The Voting Rights Act of 1965, Extension) and Congressional Research Service Report E 185 D, 75-243 GGR: “The Voting Rights Act of 1965 as Amended: History, Effects, and Alternatives” (1977.1123).
Speech Communications Research Laboratory, Inc. (through David J. Broad): sound spectrograph, Bell Telephone Laboratories (1978.0185).
William F. Spengler: 21 Oriental coins and medals (1977.1204).
Alfred D. Spinner: RCA Victor phonograph (1978.0187).
Norman E. Spiro: 1 Monroe calculator with case and cover (1978.0402).
St. Regis Paper Co. and the Mathis Welding and Machine Co., Inc. (through Marcus G. Rawls, Leon H. Mathis, Jr., and Leon H. Mathis, Sr.): fire break plow (320026.00).
Benjamin, Harvey G., and Norman Stack: collection of Chinese and other Oriental coins, tokens, and amulets (1977.0796); collection of German emergency issues of the post-World War II period (1977.0797); group of Scottish Communion Tokens (1977.0798); specialized collection of Siamese porcelain “coins” and tokens (1977.1206); collection of Massachusetts and California Company five dollar 1849 offstrikes in various metals (1977.1207); the “Dominion of the Sea” gold medal by N. Briot with the portrait of King Charles I of England (1977.1208); collection of foreign medals and plaquettes (1977.1209); specialized collection of primitive Media of Exchange (1977.1211); collection of Chinese silver Sycees (1977.1212); collection of gold coins from India, Persia, Tunis, Turkestan, Turkey, the Normans in Sicily, and Portugal (1977.1213); collection of obsolete State Bank Notes and Federal issues, (mostly $2.00 denominations) (1977.1215); silver medal struck 1686 by the City of Hamburg in memory of Court Iastram and Hieronimus Schnitger (1977.1228); Ancient Greek Charon’s token in gold Corinth or general circulation area of coins of Corinthian type, c. 4 BC (1977.1229); extremely rare ancient Etruscan silver drachm and group of mostly celtic coins (1977.1230); ancient Greeek gold coins from Ionia, 7 BC (1977.1231); group of ancient coins from Asia Minor and neighboring areas (1977.1232); German concentration camp scrip (1977.1233); Ghetto tokens from Lodz, 1943 (1977.1234); tokens issued by Indian traders (1977.1235); group of Medieval and modern coins (1977.1236); ancient Roman medallions (1977.1237); group of European coins, mostly Medieval bracteates (1977.1238) ; ancient Greek imperial medallions from Cilicia in Asia Minor (1977.1239); ancient Greek imperial medallions from Lydia in Asia Minor (1977.1240); ancient Greek imperial medallions from Laodicaea and Mytilene (1977.1241); medallions from Asia Minor in the name of Emperor Pupienus, 238 AD (1977.1242); ancient Greek electrum ingot (1977.1243); ancient Greek electrum coin (1977.1244); original obverse die for silver gulden of Bishop Christian August of Luebeck (1706-26) (1977.1245); cast copper brick, 4-3 BC of the Roman Republic (1977.1246); select group of medals typifying the work done by Stefano Johnson Co., Milan (1977.1247); collection of United States medals (1977.1248); Italian Renaissance medal, fifteenth century (1977.1250); original engravings illustrating coining processes and (or) of numismatic interest (1977.1260); specialized collection of dies by two Italian master counterfeiters used for striking Byzantine gold coins, also dies for a unique Ostro-gothic gold medallion, as well as lead
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 479

<<<Page: 489>>>

offstrikes (1977.1261); notes issued in The Netherlands (1977.1262); specialized collection of dies for late Byzantine gold and electrum coins, made by an Italian master counterfeiter (1977.1263).
Mrs. Edna Standring: amateur golfing trophy “S.E.G.A. Class ‘A’ May-Flight Winner John Standring 19-Parma Cafe Award-64” (1978.0130).
Daniel Stanton: Naval photograph of Co. 268, Platoon 1 of the graduation class at the US Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, Illinois, and US Navy enlisted man’s blue sweater (1978.0210).
Daniel P. Stanton: Application for Citizenship to donor for the State of Maryland dated March 21, 1941, and a Washington guidebook, 1909 (1977.0949) ; US Navy Occupation bronze medal, auth. 1946, issued to the donor (1978.0586); golf bag, c. 1927-28; golf balls, pre-1946 and 1946-49 (1977.1072).
Robert A. Stanton: 5 pairs woman’s panties, 1 woman’s brassiere, 8 girl’s panties, 1 pair boy’s briefs, 2 girl’s undershirts, 3 child’s combinations (319949.00).
Staodynamics, Inc. (through Thomas H. Thomson): transcutaneous nerve stimulator (322656.00).
Janet Newbolt Stewart (through Stanley Weaver): 3 child’s dresses, 1930-31, 2 child’s slips, 1930-31, child’s bib, 1930-31 and woman’s dress, 1949-50 (1977.0458).
John A. Stewart: Colt revolver and a small hunting flask (1977.0584).
Mrs. William Rhinelander Stewart (through Stanley E. Weaver): woman’s mourning veil, 1945 (1978.0457).
Mrs. Marjorie J. Stickland: US Navy Wave raincoat and belt (1977.0940).
Mrs. Matthew W. Stirling: Army Smith & Wesson revolver with leather holster (1978.0315).
Stokely-Van Camp Inc., General Offices (through Alfred Stokely): 34 food labels dating from 1920-40 (1978.0509).
Gregory Stolow: collection of First Day covers, mint stamps, used stamps and related philatelic material (1978.0012).
Jerry and Donna Stoner: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops (1978.0541).
Ellicott B. Strauss: 2 women’s two-piece dresses, c. 1910 (323606.00).
Robert Livingston Strong in memory of Mrs. Theodore Strong (Cornelia Livingston Van Rensselaer): woman’s weeding dress, 1764, with matching petticoat (315492.00).
Roy W. Strothman: photograph of ceremonies at St. Helena Training Station at detachment of Corporal John H. Dayton, photograph of Company 148 at St. Helena Traning Station and a miniature poster “In Honor of the Boys Who Won World’s Peace” (1977.0861).
John E. Strout: Marquette-Joilet tricentennial cover commemorating the establishment of the Catholic Mission promised to the Kaskaskia, Illinois, Indians in 1673 and 2 covers issued by the Old Appleton, Mo., Post office Sesquicentennial for the re-enactment of horse-carried mail from Old Appleton to Wittenburg, Mo. (1 with two stamps, the other has three stamps) (1978.0154).
Mary E. Studebaker: headwear trimmings from a woman’s costume, c. 1897 (1978.0184); 2 pairs of scissors, and 3 brass thimbles (1978.0793).
Samuel J. Summers IV: US cover addressed to an assistant surgeon in the Confederate States military hospital at Salisbury, N.C. (1978.0268).
E. Michael Swanton: football helmets, face masks, sports programs, cartoons, caricatures and instruction books from professional, amateur, and spectator sports (1977.1114).
Government of Sweden, General Directorate of Posts (through Nils Horjel): 37 First Day covers, 1977 issue; 14 First Day covers, 1978 issue; 8 Aerograms, 1977 issue; 8 letter sheets, 1977 issue; 6 postal cards, 1977 issue; 30
480 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 490>>>

unexploded booklets of stamps, and 120 mint postage stamps all from Sweden. (1978.0321); 18 postal cards with First Day cancels, 10 mint postal cards, 85 mint unexploded booklets, 25 mint souvenir sheets, 12 postal stationery with First Day cancels, 88 First Day covers of 1974, 84 First Day covers of 1975, 24 First Day covers of 1976, and 585 mint postage stamps all of Sweden (1978.0667); First Day cover from 1971, 6 First Day covers from 1975, 40 First Day covers from 1976, 56 First Day covers from 1977, 30 unexploded booklets of stamps, 13 postal cards and 330 mint postage stamps all from Sweden (1977.1015).
Henrietta P. Talbott: woman’s dress with jacket and woman’s purse both from 1937 (321799.00).
Richard S. Taussig: first flight cover flown from Washington, D.C., to New York, N.Y., on May 18, 1918, autographed by President Woodrow Wilson (1978.0014).
R. N. Taylor, M.D. (through Mystic Seaport, Inc.): collection of medical materials (1977.1223).
Telephone Pioneers of America, Oregon Chapter #31 (through Donald E. Wilson): amplifier model, 3-way amplifier model, and a wrist model of light probe (1978.0473).
Tennessee Valley Authority (through Jesse C. Mills): glass insulator, highvoltage transmission-line insulator section (1978.0231).
Mary A. Teske: 3 covers from the Canal Zone, Department of the Interior (United States Indian Service) official business cover and a partly burned airplane crash cover (US) (1978.0089).
Melissa A. Thompson: see William G. Harrington.
Mrs. Michel J. Thorgevsky (through Mrs. Virginia T. Parsons): A. Francotte 12 ga. double-barrel shotgun with leather carrying case (1978.0040).
Robert G. Tillotson: ICOM First Day cover issued in Russia May 25-28, 1977 (1977.1010).
The Tobacco Institute, Inc. (through Horace R. Kornegay): scale model of tobacco ship Brilliant (1978.0403).
Tokelau Islands Administration (through J. A. Bain): mint postage stamps of Tokelau Islands issued during 1976 (1977.1012).
Tokheim Corporation (through Robert K. Disser): fuel dispenser, 1974 (1978.0363).
Train Collectors Association (through Eric Buckley, Jr.): train set including 1 locomotive and 3 passenger cars (1978.0392).
Florence Trexler (through Laura M. Trexler): boy’s clothing items including a shirt, dress, and 2-piece suit, girl’s clothing items including shoes, 2 dresses, and pinafore, infant’s clothing items including 2 bibs, drawers, diaper, and dress, and a woman’s petticoat (322729.00).
Laura M. Trexler: man’s muffler, c. 1890, girl’s dress, c. 1884, and a woman’s 2-piece dress, c. 1919 (1977.0765) ; crib quilt and 3 bolster covers (1978.0619).
Don A. Troiani: modern watercolor of the 14th New York Zouaves, period of the Civil War, by the donor-artist (1978.0041).
Turkish Federated State of Cyprus (through the Director of the Department of Posts): 3 First Day covers, 2 specimen stamps, and 19 mint postage stamps from Turkish Cyprus (1978.0242).
Maxine Kennedy Turquette: woman’s ice skating outfit, 1940, and woman’s ice-skating stockings, 1941 (1977.0183).
Margaret Hanselman Underwood: woman’s clothing items including a dress, c. 1933, coat, c. 1933, and a jacket, 1930s (1977.0176).
Karen Ungar: see Mrs. Pearl E. Kommer.
Union Railroad Company (through W. S. Miller): telephone pole section (1977.1081).
United Nations Postal Administration (through Ole Hamann): 1,000 mint sheets of postage stamps and 80 mint postage stamps all from the United
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 481

<<<Page: 491>>>

Nations (1977.1011); 1,700 mint sheets of UN stamps (50 stamps per sheet), and 2 mint souvenir sheets of UN (1977.1049); 672 mint postage stamps of the United Nations (1978.0320).
Unknown: button hook, 1890-1920? (1977.0268).
Unknown: agricultural strike items including 2 buttons, 2 bumper stickers, and 7 pieces of propaganda (1978.0097).
US Congress, Architect of the Capitol, Arts and Reference Library (through Mrs. Florian H. Thayn): “Gusle’” musical instrument, silver boat, facsimile of the Manx Sword of State, bronze statue of Confucius, framed copy of letter of credential of John Adams (1977.0866).
US Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards: one gallon liquid test measure, five gallon liquid test measure, 3 gas meters, Sargent wet test meter, 2 tachometers, and a pressure and vacuum gauge (1978.0483).
US Department of Defense, Defense Property Disposal Office, Boston Naval Shipyard Annex: ammunition carrying vest (314668.00).
US Department of Defense, Department of the Air Force (through Capt. R. G. Saunders): Vice Presidential china (wings down), used on Air Force One (1977.0771).
US Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Center of Military History: Army shoulder sleeve insignia Volunteer Artist (1977.0731); Institute of Heraldry, Cameron Station: US Armed Forces insignia (317953.00) ; USAF service ribbon-honor graduate-basic training and a US medal set with medal, box, minature, service ribbon and lapel pin (1977.0189); 36 distinctive unit insignia and 12 shoulder sleeve insignia (1977.0676); Military Academy Museum: Compax bicycle, c. 1946 (1978.0354).
US Department of Defense, Marine Corps Museum: 24 US rifles, caliber .30 M1 (1978.0623).
US Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Food and Drug Administration, Personal Property Management Section (through Richard L. Capek): binocular microscope by Bausch & Lomb (1977.0514).
US Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines (through Henry P. Wheeler, Jr.): helium process flow chart (314541.00); National Park Service (through Lee A. Wallace, Jr.): Swiss Vetterli rifle, Russian Nagant rifle, US Allin action barrel rifle and US Meigs action barrel rifle (1977.0597); US Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Public Affairs (through Bob Hines): 180 US migratory bird hunting stamps, 1927-78, and 7 migratory-bird huntingstamp die proofs. (1978.0163).
US Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration: P. Baretta semi-automatic pistol with silencer (1977.0648) ; Rossi two-barrel pistol, caliber .22 (1977.0981).
US Department of State, Office, Chief of Protocol: Argentina double-barrel pistol with case and a Finland Sako rifle (1977.0583); (through Cyrus R. Vance): antique glass bottle of Roman period, 1-2 A.D., given to Cyrus Vance by Israel (1977.0690).
US Department of Transportation, US Coast Guard: Fresnel lighthouse lens, French made c. 1890’s—3rd and half order (1977.0860).
US Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing (through Seymour Berry): certified plate proof sheets of US postage stamps, souvenir sheets and booklets (1977.0963); certified plate proof sheets of US Postage Stamps (1978.0091); 404 certified plate proof sheets of United States postage stamps (1978.0600).
US Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Mint (through F. H. MacDonald). 1977 Annual Assay Commission Medal (1978.0102).
US Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service (through J. Kurtz): 250 filled cheese stamps (series 1952) unused, 2,600 filled cheese stamps series 1961) unused, 200 certificates in lieu of lost or destroyed special tax stamps, unused, and 2,000 sheet process butter stamps (series 1916) unused
482 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 492>>>

(1977.0965); assorted purple and green strip stamps for narcotics and marihuana tax revenue (1978.0092); unused US green strip stamps for distilled spirits bottled in bond, series 1954 (1978.0116); US colt revolver, lightning model (1978.0182).
US Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service, Bureau of ATF: 2 Newton match rifles, 5 Newton rifles, Mauser sporting rifle, pattern 14 Enfield rifle, Ross Canadian rifle, Greener D/barrel shotgun, Belgian D/ barrel shotgun, Parker Brothers D/barrel shotgun and Farquharson-Newton rifle (1977.0217); 2 gun silencers (1977.0543); US Savage semi-automatic pistol, M1917 and US Savage semi-automatic pistol, M1910 (1977.0845); over and under Derringer pistol, Smith and Wesson revolver, and an Italian revolver “Cattleman .45” with shoulder stock (1977.0976); US Government model Colt semi-automatic pistol, caliber .22 (1977.0980).
US Department of the Treasury, Secret Service (through Craig B. Ashe): hat worn by secret service guard (1978.0031); 2 black hats, 2 white hats, 2 white coats, 3 pairs of pants, and 2 aiguillettes (1978.0194).
US Government Energy Research and Development Administration (through Herbert Kinney): demonstrator’s sign “I want an Atom Smasher” (1978.0400).
US Government Executive Branch, Office of the Vice President: metal disc with the red, white and blue seal of the Vice President and a small rectangular metal sign with the seal of the Vice President against a yellow background (1978.0195).
US Government, Works Progress Administration, Federal Project No. 6, Historic American Merchant Marine Survey: 18 folio size volumes of original ship drawings, 48 looseleaf notebooks containing negatives, photographs and notes, 3 file drawers of rough drawings and correspondence, and one 4” x 6” card file containing the index (1978.0220).
US International Communication Agency, Office of American Republic Affairs (through Donald Kreisberg): mint souvenir sheets of Honduras commemorating the American Bicentennial (1978.0573).
US Library of Congress (through Nathan R. Einhorn): memorabilia relating to voting campaigns, the 1963 march on Washington, and Presidential inaugurations removed from the records of the National Urban League, 196065, during processing (1977.0542); souvenirs including a piece of wood marked “Aztic Ruins National Monument, Aztic, New Mexico”, paperweight made of a section of cable inscribed “Boulder Dam Transmission cable 1.4” diameter, 500,000 c.m./290,000 volts/1626 conductor miles,” a souvenir marked “Olin Corp. 9-7-42—First Casting Aluminum/Tacoma,” gavel marked “Buzzard Roost/Greenwood, S.C.,”” and a letter opener made of wood “from the handle of a shovel that helped build the Grand Coulee Dam” (1977.0783); Manuscript Division (through John C. Broderick): 4016 assorted philatelic specimens (1978.0598).
US Postal Service: silk banner with picture of a green tree (1978.0338): Administration Group (through Gordon C. Morison): American commemorative panels of US postage stamps issued by the American Banknote Company and the US Postal Service (1977.1026); US stamp with First Day cancellations (3 copies of each US stamp) (1977.1027); 24 postal stationary, 6 postal cards, 12 souvenir sheets, 30 coil stamps, 3 unexploded booklets, and 138 postage stamps all US mint (1977.1018); Benjamin Franklin Station (through H. B. Montague): carriage odometer, c. 1900 (1978.0416); Office of International Postal Affairs (through H. Edgar S. Stock): 370 mint postage stamps and 10 mint souvenir sheets all of Japan (1978.0087).
US Steel Corporation (through E. J. Sederberg): Wean Engineering Model (314522.00).
Jacqueline Van Voris: T-shirt, “Equality under the law shall not be denied or
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 483

<<<Page: 493>>>

abridged because of sex, race, color, creed, or national origin,” on the back of T-shirt is “Vote Yes on #1” (1977.0710).
Richard W. Velde: Fotron III electronic camera, c. 1963, Kodak Ektra 35mm split-image rangefinder camera, c. 1940, and a flash synchronizer for Kodak Ektra camera, c. 1940 (1977.0810).
Gladys Visel: 3 pieces of Batik fabric and 2 pices of Ikat fabric (1978.0620).
Robert M. Vogel: advertisement calendar notebook and elevator rack section (1977.1053).
Voter Education Project (through Stanley Alexander): press releases, booklets, pamphlets, reprints, handouts, small posters concerning voter registration in the South, statistics on black elected officials in the South, barriers to minority political participation, how to register and vote, citizenship rights, the Universal Voter Registration Act, 1977 (1977.0754).
Wages for Housework (through Barbara Bernstein): pamphlet, newsletter, literature list, and button all pertaining to ‘Wages for Housework” (1977.0848).
Clair K. Wagner: powder horn of animal horn and wood made by donor (1977.0982).
Gale Wagner (through The Henri Gallery): complete set of stamps portraying the Watergate, designed by the donor (1977.0683).
John J. Wagram: Autochrome transparency and ground glass magnifier (1977.0582).
Vincent George Walkendifer: 188 electrotype finisher’s tools, 12 electrotype plates, blocks and test strips, and 9 books related to electrotyping (1977.0740).
Mrs. Wallace Haynes Walker: small two-handled inking roller (1977.0792).
Susan N. Wallace: woman’s brassiere, 1965-68 (1977.0946).
Roger O. Walther: man’s shoes, 1972 (1977.0995).
War Resisters League (through Grace Hedemann and Ed Hedemann): antiwar material including 2 T-shirts, 2 posters, 2 flyers, a button, and a leaflet (1978.0564).
Thos. W. Ward Limited (through P. M. Griesson and D. Walton): glass skylight from liner S/S Majestic, and 8 plaster relief panels (1978.0206).
Mrs. Anita S. Warner: vacuum tube radio receivers, 1925 (1977.0524).
Frances W. Warner: 11 cabinet photographs and display frame (1977.0909).
Warren Pumps (through John E. Gilbert): vertical splining machine (1978.0050).
Washington Cathedral (through John H. Bayless): formulas for colored glass used by L. B. Saint in producing his stained glass windows for The Washington Cathedral, c. 1920s to 1930s (322722.00).
Waterbury Companies Inc. (through Bruce Bazelon): US Navy, US Marine Corps and US Coast Guard gold uniform buttons 1812 to twientieth century (304809.00).
Frank D. Waterman: Waterman no. 1 IDEAL fountain pen, nib and spoon feed pen section, vest chain dip pen and ink bottle, and Waterman pen box from first office and store (1977.0773).
Joan Pearson Watkins: woman’s hat, 1957-62 (1977.1107); American stoneware covered dish made by Glidden Pottery, Alfred, N.Y., c. 1950 (1978.0513).
Genevieve Carter Watson: woman’s dress, c. 1917, girl’s hood, c. 1879, woman’s apron, 1870-1900, woman’s drawers, 1860-81 and woman’s spats, 1890-1905 (1977.0833).
Mrs. Jean E. Watson: part dinner service consisting of pieces of ceramics designed by Russell Wright, Steubenville Pottery Co., c. 1940 (1978.0266).
Samuel P. Watt in memory of Myrtle I. Watt: philatelic items contained in a 35-volume collection of the world (1978.0543).
484 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 494>>>

Mrs. Ruth N. Waugh in memory of Charles R. Waugh, Jr.: approximately 10,000 pens and pencils (1978.0165).
Mrs. Ellen B. Way: book, Things That I Remember At Ninety-Five by Olive Cleaveland Clarke (1881) (1977.0806).
Mary Lloyd Weekley: 2 woman’s dresses, 3 woman's hats, 1 purse, and 1 pair of shoes (319951.00).
Ruth D. Wehle: woman’s clothing items including 4 hats, 3 pairs of shoes, and a woman’s suit (1977.0814).
Ben H. Weil: 5 UN souvenir cards with First Day cancels, 5 UN First Day covers with Geneva cancellations, and 14 used UN stamps (1977.1127).
Robert S. Weiner and Yosef Riemer: handouts, newsletters, pamphlets, reprints, regarding Carter/Mondale appeals to votes of Senior Citizens, policy on aging, etc., 1976 campaign (1977.0817).
Rosemary Quesada Weiner: booklet: Las Mujeres/1977/National Women’s Conference (1978.0265).
Helen Weisberg: official observer’s badge for the National Women’s Conference, Houston, Texas, Nov. 18-21, 1977, for the donor (1978.0563).
Donna Werner: Illinois State IWY meeting materials including pamphlets, envelopes, a booklet, a badge, and a piece of stationery (1978.0122).
Virginia M. West: man’s vest, 1800-24 (1978.0048).
Westingthouse Electric Corp. (through Timothy M. Wilkinson): Westinghouse induction range (322661.00); Westinghouse Research Laboratory (through Dr. John W. Coltman): replica of nuclear scintillation detector, 1947 (1977. 0993).
Nancy Whistler: 29 items from the Colorado State International Women’s Year meeting (1978.0560).
Mrs. Esther and George White: “King’s Ale” bottle, marked “Brewed 22nd Feb. 1902” (1977.0933); silver medal struck to commemorate one-hundredseventy-fifth anniversary of Burton, Ohio (1977.1268).
James J. White III: 9 railway mail clerk tests (1978.0597).
John H. White, Jr.: 2 Ib. flour bag (1978.0276); 5-chime locomotive whistle 1978.0290); spike from Duquesne Incline Railway, Pittsburgh, Pa. (1978.0436); Elgin pocket watch (1977.0922).
C. W. Whitehorn: sterling silver Susan B. Anthony medallion, sterling silver Labyris symbol, and a sterling silver “E.R.A.” pendant (1978.0061).
Holyoke L. and Joanne L. Whitney: silk skirt (1978.0795).
Ronald and Shirley Wilbanks: pair of depression glass salt and pepper shakers with perforated, threaded metal tops, manufactured by Westmoreland Glass Co. (1977.1291).
Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Wilkinson: US Coast Guard Auxiliary Service dress blue uniform coat and trousers, c. 1960 (1977.1184).
Williams College (through Peter P. Welanetz): Martin Van Buren desk (1977.0707).
David G. Williams: 1 Marchant ERB 8 calculator (1977.1225).
Ralph G. Wilson, MM1, USN (Ret.): US covers commemorating “Railroad Day” in the Florida Keys (1978.0530).
Rollin L. Wilson: man’s accessories including a pill box, c. 1970, money clip, c. 1958, and match case, c. 1920 (1978.0326).
Alice Winkles: badge “American Agriculture Movement 1977. Terry County, Texas” (1978.0540).
Mrs. Annette Witkin: metal compact with portrait of President Franklin D. Roosevelt (1977.0701).
Larry N. Wolfe: WW II wool field jacket (1977.0863).
The Women’s Coalition for the Third Century (through Patricia Budd Kepler): document, Declaration of Interdependence issued by Coalition at Bicentennial ceremonies in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, July 4, 1976 (1977.0983).
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 485

<<<Page: 495>>>

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates (through Patricia A. Harr): Grant-Wilson flag banner (1978.0030). Clark Wood, Sr. (through Joe Wood): 1909 model Army ambulance, (1978.-
0223).
Colonel William D. Wooldridge: US Army distinctive insignia, 295 pieces
(1977.0703).
Jocelyn Wurzburg: voting cards, ballots, registration forms, program, memo, booklets, and pamphlets concerning the Tennessee Woman’s IWY Con-
ference (1978.0055).
Yashica Inc. (through Hisayuki Sano): Contax RTS single-lens reflex 35mm camera with electronic focal plane shutter, Yashica MAT-124G twin-lens reflex, Yashica “Electro 35 GSN/GTN” 35mm camera with rangefinder and
electronic shutter (1977.0932). Helen M. Yurso: see Joan M. Main.
Mrs. Glenda Youritzin: portrait of Dr. Paul Peck (1978.0038). Joanna S. Zangrando: 5 handouts, a button, and a map from the New York
IWY State meeting (1977.0905).
David and Charlotte Zeitlin: figure of Pan, c. 1878, and figure of a boy, c. 1872, both from Minton, England. From Doulton, England, a pair of “Lambeth Faience” vases, c. 1878, a stoneware openwork vase, 1880, a stoneware jug with handle, a tobacco jar with cover and weight, c. 1875, and a pitcher
with 2 goblets (1978.0478).
Mrs. Marian Carne Zinsmeister: gold award key (SPA Lagerloef Award) presented to J. Elmer Zinsmeister while he was editor of the SPA Journal and a “Society of Philatelic Americans” pin (1978.0602).
Donors of Financial Support
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton Barry Foundation, Inc.
Barry Bingham, Sr.
Braniff International
John Nicholas Brown
Mrs. Claus von Bulow
Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc. The Coca-Cola Company
David E. Finley (by bequest) Kent-Lucas Foundation
Donors to the Collections
Mrs. Susan Mary Alsop
Lee Boltin
The Reverend Thomas G. Cleveland Miss Winifred S. Compton Colonel John Coolidge
Mrs. Lincoln Dryden
Jean-Antony Du Lac
Mrs. Donald Fenn
Ira Glackens
Hebrew Union College
Mrs. Chester E. King |
Dr. Maury Leibovitz
Mrs. Katie Louchheim
Dr. John A. P. Millet (by bequest) W. Bedford Moore
486 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Katie Louchheim
Lu Shan Foundation
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Polaroid Foundation, Inc.
Riggs National Bank
Mr. and Mrs. James Louis Robertson John P. Robertson
Silverstein Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Xerox
Old Print Gallery
Old Print Shop
Mr. and Mrs. James Parton II Mrs. Frances Payne
Dr. David Reiss
George Rinhart
Mrs. Harriet Murphy Ross Marvin Sadik
Mr. and Mrs. Karl Simonson Mrs. Doreen Canaday Spitzer Bardyl Tirana
Henry Villard
Frederick Wight
Daniel Wolf
Mr. and Mrs. David O. Woodbury

<<<Page: 496>>>

Contributors to the Folklife Program
Aid to Artizans, Inc. Government of Mexico
Coca-Cola Company Inter-American Foundation
Coca-Cola de Mexico McDonald’s Washington Area Family Restaurants Department of Energy Music Performance Trust Funds
Donors of Financial Support
Susan Amos Anita Jackson Arleen Olson
Elizabeth Butler Jean Jacobson Harry Parham
Isabelle Cosby Alan Krause John Roberts
Donald Fletcher Paula Madden Robert and Linda Robinson Rebecca Frischkorn Peggy McLaughlin Christine Sauer
Hugh and Carol Gramling Kathleen Meehan Arnold Webster
Sara Groves Elizabeth Mount Thomas Wilson
Rowena Hahn Russell Neff Lida Woodbury
Linda Hosticka Janet Norman
Donors to the Collections
Mr. Warren Abbott: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Italian Tree.
Mr. William S. Campbell: ivy cultivars and unusual ornamental cultivars.
Lawson Carr, Edna Pennell and the Flower Cupboard: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Williamsburg Folk Art Tree.
Mrs. Demaris E. Cash: cast-iron Victorian garden bench and chair.
The Danish Club of Washington, D.C.: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Danish Tree.
Mr. Paul E. Desautels: 32 mature orchid plants.
The Evergreen Garden Club of Georgetown: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Tidewater Plantation Tree.
The Fairfax County Extension Homemakers: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Pioneer Tree.
Mrs. Helen Gunderson: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Tree of the Ukraine.
Mr. Gary Hansen: 203 mature orchid plants.
Mrs. Harry Harris: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Tree of Russia.
Mr. Edward L. Miller: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Italian Tree.
Mr. Robert Nelson: funds for a collection of orchids.
Miss Sunny O’Neil: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Victorian Tree.
Miss Anne C. Reade: 1 mature orchid plant.
St. Elizabeths Hospital, Dr. Charles Meredith: 4 cast-iron Victorian garden urns (on permanent loan).
Star Roses, Conrad-Pyle Company, Mr. Richard Hutton: 483 rose plants for use in the 1978 Flower Show.
The Visitor Information and Associates Reception Center: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the Tree of Brazil.
Volunteers from the Resident Associates Program: handcrafted Christmas decorations for the U.S. Community Tree.
The West Grove Women’s Club: 2 garden books on perennials.
Mrs. Bissell Wood: historic catalogues of plants and garden accessories.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 487

<<<Page: 497>>>

SMITHSONIAN ARCHIVES Donors to the National Collections INDIVIDUALS
Aldrich, John Warren: taped reminiscences.
Blake, Mrs. Doris H.: papers of Doris H. Blake and Sidney F. Blake
Boardman, Richard S.: taped reminiscences.
Brooks, Mrs. Robert A.: the papers of Robert A. Brooks.
Buechner, Mrs. Jimmie H.: the papers of Helmut Buechner.
Buzas, Martin L.: taped reminiscences.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr.: taped reminiscences.
Cook, Peter D.: the papers of Edward A. Preble.
Cowan, Richard S.: taped reminiscences.
Daley, Mr. and Mrs. M. S.: the papers of Arthur deC. Sowerby.
Davis, Audrey: the papers of Watson Davis.
Evans, Clifford: taped reminiscences.
Ewers, John C.: taped reminiscences.
Friedmann, Herbert: taped reminiscences.
Giacconi, Riccardo: the papers of Riccardo Giacconi.
Gibson, Gordon D.: taped reminiscences.
Givens, Earl and Stuart: 12-volume set of the Smithsonian Scientific Series.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr.: taped reminiscences.
Hope, W. Duane: taped reminiscences.
Howe, Letitia T.: one letter of Spencer F. Baird.
Kauffman, Erle G.: taped reminiscences.
Kier, Porter M.: taped reminiscences.
Mann, Lucile Q.: taped reminiscences; the papers of William Mann.
McElvare, Mrs. Rowland R.: the papers of Rowland R. McElvare.
Multhauf, Robert P.: taped reminiscences.
Oehser, Paul H.: taped reminiscences.
Ray, G. Carlton: records of the Marine Mammal Program of the International Biological Program.
Reingold, Nathan: taped reminiscences.
Riesenberg, Saul H.: taped reminiscences.
Schmitt, Waldo L.: papers of Waldo L. Schmitt.
Schultz, Leonard P.: taped reminiscences, the papers of Leonard P. Schultz.
Taylor, Frank A.: taped reminiscences.
Walker, Egbert H.: the papers of Egbert H. Walker.
Wetmore, Alexander: taped reminiscences.
Whipple, Fred L.: taped reminiscences, the papers of Fred L. Whipple.
Yochelson, Ellis: photographs of the Charles D. Walcott family.
American Ornithologists’ Union: the records of the Union.
Botanical Society of Washington: the records of the Society. NOTE: The Smithsonian Archives has also been designated as the continuing depository for the Botanical Society of Washington.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES Donors to the Collections
Adrosko, Rita: 2 volumes.
Ahlborn, Richard: Afro-American Tradition in Decorative Arts.
Anderson, Florence: 13 documents relating to the construction of the Carnegie Mansion.
Babcock & Wilson Law Firm: Scientific American, 1859-1963.
Baroni, George. Story of the 98th—1942-45.
488 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 498>>>

Beech, Mrs. Olive Ann: History of Beech, by William H. McDaniel, 1976.
Beer, Alice: 100 magazine issues and books.
Berkebile, Don H.: American Carriages, Sleighs, Sulkies and Carts.
Blanchette, Arthur E.: Geophysics in the Americas.
Bondurant, Lynn: 2 volumes.
Boyne, Walter: several journals.
Brabson, Mrs. George D.: Rex Brasher prints.
Burnham, Elizabeth: 1 volume.
Carey, Colonel E. F., Jr.: History of the 35th Aero Service Squadron, U.S. Army Air Services.
Carman, C. D.: Shuttleworth Collection, 1977.
Carriker, R. C.: guides to the microfilm editions of Alaskan Manuscript.
Chiacos, Stephanie: material of June Wayne.
Clarke, Martin: aircraft manuals.
Clattenburg, Albert E.: journals on birds.
Cohen, Dan: 16 volumes of Dredged Material Research Program “Technical Reports.”
Coles, Victor L.: government publications.
Correll, David: Plant Physiology, volumes 34-60.
Cupid, Gwendolyn: Inaugural Book, 1973.
Dee, Elaine: 75 volumes.
Department of the Environment, Tehran, Iran: Birds of Iran.
Emme, Dr. Eugene M.: 9 books; 42 reprints of articles; 36 book reviews.
Emmons, Douglas L.: Encyclopedia Britannica Yearbooks.
Engraving and Printing Office, Department of Treasury: collection of volumes.
Ernst, Gertrud: 360 issues of scientific journals.
Federal Aviation Administration: collection of 800 books on the history of aeronautics and astronautics.
Fleisher, M. T.: 54 copies of Chirp.
Fox, David: 19 childrens’ books.
Frank, Peter: 15 cartons of reference material on art.
Friedrich, Margaret: 13 space-science books.
Gibbs-Smith, Charles: The Flight Claims of Gustave Whitehead.
Gilbert, Sheryl: 4 volumes.
Gilcriese, John: 347 reels of microfilm.
Glaser, Frank: 1 volume.
Goldwater, The Honorable Barry: Air Fighters, 1962.
Goode, James: The Confederate University: The Forgotten Institution of the American Civil War.
Gumerove, Sharon: 3 issues of Intergalactic Etcetera.
Haight, Gerald: The Life of George Washington.
Hale, Hal H.: 22 books of guns, hunting, and gun control.
Harshbarger, John: 8 cartons of journals.
Henderson, E. P.; 2 volumes.
Hoekstra, Harold D. 45 government publications and 19 aircraft photographs.
Howson, Mrs. Hubert: 4 historical volumes.
Hurst, Randle M.: Smokejumpers, by the donor, 1966.
Idso, L. K.: 2 publications by the donor.
Irwin, L. K.: 2 volumes.
Kamenev, V.: Valery Chkalov—Immortal Leader.
Kaufmann, Robert.: 25 volumes.
Keppes, Wm.: 10 items, posters, and exhibition catalogues.
Knight, Gene: collection of 5 books on aviation history.
Kohno, Masaharu: Live Hydroid Species from the Gulf of Aqaba Red Sea, by Hirohito, Emperor of Japan.
Lerman, Leo: 1,000 books, auction catalogues, and magazines.
Lewis, Rae: 2 monographs and 10 periodicals.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 489

<<<Page: 499>>>

Lott, Arnold S.: Brave Ships, Brave Men, by Arnold S. Lott, 1977.
Lund, Mary: issues of AOPA Pilot.
MacGuire, Edith: 1 volume.
Marton, L.: IBM Journal of Research and Development, subscription.
Mason, Brian: 3 volumes of Proceedings of the Eighth Lunar Science Conference.
Massar, Phyllis: 10 volumes.
Maximus, John: 200 volumes.
Mecinski, Louise: 75 volumes.
Medical History Division, U.S. Army Center of Military History: Radiology in World War II, 1966.
Mercier, Suzanne: Recherche en Neologismes Dans Le Domaine Scientifique Americain.
Mikesh, Robert: 28 issues, Aviation Journal.
Miller, Duncan: United States Air Force in Southeast Asia, 1961-1973, by Carl Berger, 1976.
Miller, J. Jefferson Il: Porzellan des 18. Jahrunderts im Kirshgarten .. .
Million, Jan, Ninety-Nines, Inc.: 3 issues, 99 News.
Mills, Ernest: 3 volumes on rats.
Mock, Mrs. Jerrie: Three-Eight Charlies, by Jerrie Mock, 1970.
Mosteller, Dee: Fiftieth Anniversary issue of Flying.
Multhauf, Robert: Herman Hollerith: Data Processing Pioneer.
National Bureau of Standards: Bibliotheca Aeronautica, auction catalog of Maggs Brothers.
New York Public Library: Crockery and Glass Journal, 45 volumes.
Nichols, Eldon: 26 books on transatlantic and under-sea cables.
Nickerson, Dorothy: 20 cartons of material on color.
Olson, Storrs. Faconicormes, 4 parts; 48 volumes of Florida Naturalist; Checklist of the Genera and Species of Mallophaga.
Oppenheimer, Harry: 1976 reprint of Wm. Harris’s Portraits of the Game and Wild Animals of Southern Africa.
Osgood, Cornelius: 11 cartons of anthropological material.
Paddock, Mrs. Gardiner Fiske, Astra Castra; Beauty of Flight.
Paine, Martha and Howard: 10 trade catalogues on photographic equipment.
Patterson, G. Clifford: Starts and Stripes, 1918-1919.
Peckham, Florence, FAA Library, Oklahoma: 195 volumes.
Perrot, Paul: Danse Macabre.
Petit, Edmond: 2 volumes on history of aviation.
Phillips, Philip, and James A. Brown.: Pre-Columbian Shell Engravings from the Craig Mound at Spiro, Oklahoma, 3 volumes.
Ray, Clayton: The Schizotheriinae (Mammalia, Perissodactyla) ....
Rea, Jacqueline: table paper-cutter and special photo envelopes.
Reed, Theodore: 2 volumes.
Rehder, Harold: Natural History Journal, 1937-1940.
Remley, R. D.: Brick Moon, reprint of 1865 edition.
Riesenberg, Saul: 11 volumes.
Ripley, S. Dillon: journals and 4 books.
Rubenstein, Frank: Dropsie University.
Sachs, Charles: photocopy of Lindbergh’s original flight log.
Salussolia, Peter: 8 volumes.
Schallert, Ruth: The Victorian Fern Craze.
Schefer, Leo J.: several issues of Touchdown.
Schmid, Randolph E.: several serials.
Schwartz, David: 1 book and 3 exhibition catalogues.
Setzer, Henry: 2 volumes.
Shabaan, General Saad: 7 volumes.
Sheldon, Bert: 11 volumes.
490 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 500>>>

Smalley, Walter: 5 newspaper issues.
Sohn, I. Gregory: scientific journals.
Space Publications, Inc.: Defense/Space Business Daily, volumes 80-82, 1975-1977.
Stanbury, Helen: 50 magazine issues.
Stann, Jeff: Rain Forests of Golfo Dulce.
Stark, Helen: 100 journal issues.
Steele, Jeff: 3 volumes of Bungee Cord.
Storch, Robert: index to Soaring Mazagine, 1937-1971.
Sturtevant, Wm. C.: Native American Heritage.
Suthard, Karl: Kitchener, Portrait of an Imperialist.
Sutnar, Rad: 20,000 items from the library of his father, Salislaz Sutnar.
Thalberg, Knut: Facsimilia Scientia et Technica Norvegica, 1-5, 9-40.
Thompson, Daniel: Moths of America North of Mexico, Fascicle 21.
Tillotson, Robert: Porcelaines de Vincenes.
Time-Life Books: funds.
van der Linden, Frank Robert: 5 issues, Airpower.
Vick, Charles P.: 466 serial publications, 10 books.
Vogt, Peter: 4 newspaper issues.
Walford, James: Book of Orchid Paintings.
Walkowiak, Arthur: aeronatuical periodicals.
Ward, Ronald: 11 volumes.
Warleta, Senor Jose: Autogiro, Juan De La Cierva y Su Obra, by Jose Warleta, 1977.
Wasicko, Richard: aeronautical books and journals.
Watkins, Marvin: 3 aeronautical works.
Watson, George: 2 volumes.
White, Don: 2 volumes.
White, John: American Railroad Passenger Car.
Wilson Druid: Paleontology of the Jurassic and Cretaceous of West Central Argentina.
Winter, Frank: 74 phonograph records.
Winter, Henry: Early Aviation U.S.A. by Henry Winter, 1977.
Zeek, Leo: Infantry Exercise of the U.S. Army.
Zug, George: Introduction to Herpetology.
Donors of Financial Support
Aston Magna Foundation: made funds available for the preparation of the recording of Bach’s Brandenburg Concerti.
McDonald’s Corporation: made funds available for the Christmas Celebration at the National Museum of History and Technology, December 26, 1977, through January 1, 1978.
National Endowment for the Arts: granted funds to support the Jazz Connoisseur and the Jazz Heritage Concert Series and the Jazz Oral History Project.
Donors of Financial Support:
Mr. DeWitt Wallace, Intern ’78 Program. James Smithson Society, Intern ’78 Program. Smithsonian Women’s Committee, School Outreach Program.
Appendix 8. Donors to Smithsonian Institution / 491

<<<Page: 501>>>

Donors of Financial Support
National Endowment for the Humanities and National Endowment for the Arts: granted funds for Program’s participation in national symposium, Mexico Today, September 29—mid-November, 1978.
National Science Foundation: granted funds for a monthly lecture series, “Key Issues in Science Today,” January through May, 1978.
Smithsonian Women’s Committee: for the Free Film Theater.
Donors of Works of Art
Elsie F. Alsberg
Anonymous Donor
Larry Dale Arnold
William and Ruth Benedict
Lewis Cabot
Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
Leon Chalette
Collectors Committee
Elizabeth Miles Cooke in memory of Hereward Lester Cooke
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Eichholz
George L. Erion
Frank and Jeannette Eyerly
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Gray
Peter Josten
Ruth Cole and Jacob Kainen
Otto and Franziska Kallir
Madeleine Chalette Lejwa
Arthur Lejwa
Mrs. Constance Mellon
Donors of Financial Support
Avalon Fund
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund
William Nelson Cromwell Fund
Chester Dale Fund
Carol and Edwin Gaines Fullinwider Fund
492, / Smithsonian Year 1978
Dr. Dieter Erich Meyer Graham Nash Edith G. Rosenwald William S. Rubin David E. Rust David E. Rust in honor of Lincoln Kirstein Sherwood B. Smith, Jr. William M. Speiller John H. Steiner Frederick Sturges, Jr. Horton and Chiyo Telford in grateful memory of the artist Howard Mehring Mr. and Mrs. Burton Tremaine Mr. David Tunick in memory of Allison Hope Tunick Mr. and Mrs. David Tunick Mr. and Mrs. Arthur E. Vershbow Dr. and Mrs. Maclyn E. Wade Monroe Wheeler
Andrew W. Mellon Fund Adolph Caspar Miller Fund Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund Print Purchase Fund

<<<Page: 502>>>

APPENDIX 9. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1978
Smithsonian Arts & Natural Air & Freer History & Institution Industries History Space Gallery Technology
Month Building Building Building Building of Art Building October, 1977 44,003 39,099 301,423 654,130 19,703 299,708 November 34,471 35,929 365,529 578,269 16,857 207,917 December 26,838 39,995 184,950 373,066 I) BEY/ 226,261 January, 1978 19,726 24,411 156,172 283,162 10,403 133,466 February 17,833 36,560 230,739 SPH MEE ZA 161,587 March 44,641 ZA GAUSIS) 455,903 T2LA77 22,990 339,172 April 56,142 93,709 666,695 1,115,040 25,001 505,913 May 69,605 83,742 746,090 1,192,554 24,175 469,020 June 111,022 104,244 692,358 1,206,868 22,990 406,923 July 145,458 140,165 691,299 1,433,420 295239 568,698 August 134,278 141,348 641,112 PAS AGUOS 28,919 513,999 September 53,468 54,820 233,889 667,874 18,628 218,023 TOTALS 757,485 903,081 5,366,159 10,028,888 244,493 4,050,687
Fine Arts Anacostia Cooper& Portrait Renwick Hirshhorn Neighborhood Hewitt
Month Galleries Gallery Museum Museum Museum Totals October, 1977 37,403 15,261 103,763 3,744 8,716 1,547,453 November 34,594 13,800 89,479 5,088 12,901 1,412,234 December 29,859 17,651 70,811 3,565 10,285 996,678 January, 1978 28,925 18,227 58,684 3,076 10,312 746,564 February Ziyeee Aleehul 61,532 4,478 12,208 962,105 March 50,907 18,044 108,351 3,088 10,246 1,845,678 April 50,859 20,404 155,821 978 8,727 2,699,289 May 54,087 18,648 134,786 2,585 Sy 7/Alil 2,801,003 June 45,567 PA /EIE) 128,398 2,289 8,556 2,741,951 July 37,849 18,421 152,836 3,682 DIAS 3,230,780 August 38,315 15,008 154,219 2,473 13,474 3,114,340 September 36,649 16073 80,454 1,484 6,016 1,387,478 TOTALS 480,947 201,284 1,299,134 36,530 116,865 23,485,553
Note: Not reflected in the above tabulation are an estimated 2,600,000 visitors to the National Zoological Park in calendar year 1978. The very nature of the Park, with its indoor and outdoor exhibits and its several vehicular and pedestrian entrances, makes it impossible to obtain exact visitor statistics. To overcome this difficulty, NZP has developed a reliable sampling system; this system was used to determine the 1978 estimate.
Appendix 9. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution / 493

<<<Page: 503>>>

APPENDIX 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1978
MHE-SECREDARY)).0 cj uerc es ond ei ere S. DILLON RIPLEY ExecutiverAssistant ene steele Dorothy Rosenberg Speciali@Assistantu sme nce veritas James M. Hobbins Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Richard H. Howland Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Margaret Hird Assistant Secretary for Administration . John F. Jameson Assistant Secretary for History and Art . Charles Blitzer Assistant Secretary for Science ......... David Challinor Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs Paul N. Perrot Assistant Secretary for Public Service .. Julian T. Euell
MRC ASUTED) sieeve Hi nc Ales tah deena T. Ames Wheeler General'Counsell 2. 5). so iste cas! series Peter G. Powers Director of Support Activities .......... Richard L. Ault Director of Membership and Development James McK. Symington Coordinator of Public Information ...... Lawrence E. Taylor Curator, Smithsonian Institution Building James M. Goode Honorary Research Associates ......... Alexander Wetmore,
Secretary Emeritus Paul H. Oehser
The Under Secretary .................. Michael Collins EXectitiviemAssistante emer cd oe: John G. Motheral Director, Officesof Audits: 7.50. see Chris S. Peratino IASSistantaDinectoneaeee eee eee eee Patrick J. Stanton ASsistantaDirectornmn nen eae eee: Benedict T. Maltagliati SGIENGE Assistant Secretary ................4.. David Challinor Executivel@fficen.)242 san ciadae same Harold J. Michaelson Programe Manager: 1a sass sie Meio Ross B. Simons AdiministrativemAssistantsmne een eee Marsha S. Cox
Rita R. Jordan Secretary: Uyaes susie ye ces or ctl Oe ee Claire Geller
Director ........... Ht Nixons Choi he mc ethe ts J. Kevin Sullivan Associate Director for Scientific Programs David L. Correll
1 Deceased December 7, 1978.
494 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 504>>>

Associate Director for Education
Bere INS) le hie pss ce eiege Het chee oe sia’ John H. Falk Administrative Officer Geiicccs <ecis «i002. Donald L. Wilhelm Paeties Mana PEE .0.. 6.6 ws dees sialon John Rynarzewski Scientific Staff UPLAND ECOLOGY: ESTUARINE ECOLOGY: WATERSHED STUDIES: Edward Balinsky Robert Cory Margaret McKim Daniel Higman Robert Disque William Schaffner James F. Lynch Douglas Dixon Tung Lin Wu ee eham Rene corr LAND USE HISTORY:
Tee Meyer Amy Hiatt Joseph Miklas Education Staff John Balling Sharon Maves Linda Chick Suzanne Pogell Ann Coren FORT PIERCE BUREAU | OPES a5 che OU o ern U ICRC REP ic eRe Me EL a Vacant Administrative Assistant .............. June J. Jones Scientific Staff BPARCINOIOGISH) fo. Sis oi Sedo es oe aie este's Robert H. Gore Embryologist/Life Histories ........... Mary E. Rice Research) Assistants’ .4 <5. 00s ss sees Karen J. Carle
Joseph P. Murdoch Julianne Piraino Liberta E. Scotto Kim A. Wilson
Oa Paula M. Mikkelsen ne eees H. Jack McDonald
John F. Pilger Edward E. Ruppert
Mirector (Acting) !. 2.2... /.... DeputyeDirector’s: 2. 40-6--2. Executive Officer (Acting) ..... urator Of “Art 222.5). 06.23: Administrative Officer ........
Stat Assistant... :.2 322.02. 5c!Building Manager ............ BPRS EAT bape oso 0 Kate 4, dis) '5 s/n! o others
Department of Aeronautics
Assistant Director os .%..4.<<< Flistonianvemeritus.....:5.) Surators metre he sooo ae
Associate Gurator) 30 eee
Appendix 10.
Eisen eben Melvin B. Zisfein acto Melvin B. Zisfein
ae a Walter J. Boyne Bee James D. Dean Pane M. Antoinette Smith Sey oie Vacancy
be otic Louise H. Hull
Ae AL Joseph J. Davisson SARIS Robin A. Schroffel
J aBOE tt Donald S. Lopez Saye Meatetes Paul E. Garber Bia eeiererers Walter J. Boyne
Louis S. Casey Robert B. Meyer, Jr. E. T. Wooldridge, Jr.
eee Robert C. Mikesh
Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 495

<<<Page: 505>>>

AGSistantiGuratOrsinen ernie eee Claudia M. Oakes Charles G. Sweeting
Department of Astronautics
Megane IDibtAxctiole olds cotodecsocadscc F. C. Durant III Gita CORSE eee aa alert OSs dcrreleetseauers Tom D. Crouch Walter H. Flint Ego (CURENO® oho sbdoooocooabeodas Louis R. Purnell Researchmilistonianwmnare mec niece Frank H. Winter Department of Science and Technology IAcsistanta inectOninee eee ence Howard S. Wolko (GURATOTS HR eer esa l siecle fevaeetet ateRENS Richard P. Hallion
Paul A. Hanle Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
Reaseaimedn IDAHO? sodscoodacoanbasoduc Farouk El-Baz
Geologistsi er marie heel ae emne ete Andrew Chaikin Diane Cobb Ann Gifford
Ted Maxwell Priscilla A. Strain Alta Walker Robert W. Wolfe
Presentations Division
GSE iis cro eae pee neem an gs oA oy alia Von Del Chamberlain Pianetaritim) Oficenmeen ere seca lesen: Charles G. Barbely heaters Manager seteisa ta ieca tear. Ronald E. Wagaman Education Division
(Glan ANUS Sta ob nA Ae re Ae ie ee Kerry M. Joéls Assistant: @hiehi Wace occ aden acer Vacancy
Writer /Editortesceiniee ace conte emits Julie Forbush Program) (Coordinator )ebs/ sce 2 te eae ns Harold Snider Exhibits Division
Ghief ((Aicting,)) ioe ai sitar cine erecenenrane Frank A. Nelms GhiefrAudiovisualaUiniteseenanoeeee orc Hernan Otano Chief Design! Umit eens ass ieee een Robert Widder Desionions yi (ever ee tite eketiaje cael ate John W. Brown
John R. Clendening Lucius E. Lomax Terezia M. Takacs
WN rstraton: <i ciewal Ueees seven cimaee ater cteirers eevee Peter P. DeAnna Epo hvon ei Penn at eins rey nee Rte er eas loco SE Edna W. Owens GhicGakroductions Unites aces Frank A. Nelms Preservation, Restoration and Storage Division
Give fe ec Sey Wa es ile aan sere OMe eRe Ge Walter J. Boyne Assistant Chie aasiics one eee Edward B. Chalkley Shop Foreman}... Leaner antes Walter R. Roderick
Director! oe ek ca Ae a tem NIRS east Porter M. Kier ASsistantubirectonmeniics anurans James F. Mello AdmunistrativeOficerwenee eee eerie Sherrill Berger
496 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 506>>>

ET “UO a 2 i E. Richard Sorenson
Research Film Studies Coordinator ..... Gay C. Neuberger
mesraren Veil EGitoM 2 oo 5.. ews es o's Pamela C. Wintle
Assistant Research Film Editor ......... Vacant
Misual) Data Specialist 2. s. 46 eee ce Barbara Y. Johnson
esearch Assistants: 222.0005.) 0.660665 M. Michael Maloney Mathias Maradol
Research Film Cataloguer ............. Vacant
Assistant Research Filmmakers ......... Ragpa Dorjee
Ruth Klionsky Steven C. Schecter
Administrative Assistant .............. Leslie A. Curtin
PRBRPOMMe NS here see SDS Las dale s Vacant
Poamumeirative Aide ..2s...5.0.060680% Diana Cohen
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scholars
Research Associates .......... Asen Balikci, University of Montreal, Quebec
John K. Marshall, Director, Documentary Educational Resources, Sommerville, Massachusetts
Collaborating Scholars ....... Lain S. Bangdel, Vice Chancellor, Royal Nepal Academy, Kathmandu, Nepal
William H. Crocker, Associate Curator, National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C.
Bayazid Hatsak, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India
John Kolia, Director, Institute of Papua New Guinea Studies, Boroko, Papua New Guinea
John Reinhard, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin
Gyatsho Tshering, Director, Library of Tibetan Works and Archives, Dharamsala, India
Scott Williams, Bellevue Community College, Bellevue, Washington
RSOMIAUILANES 002% oF eo sos cee se oe Margaret Mead, The American Museum of Natural History, New York City
Sol Tax, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
Carroll Williams, Anthropology Film Center, Santa Fe, New Mexico
DIECCIOTECE OS face cree ee soe ree Roy S. Bryce-Laporte Administrative Assistant .............. Betty S. Dyson Research Goordinator ....... ij .-++>+ += Stephen R. Couch Program Coordinator...) 2.2 ps see as Delores M. Mortimer BER ree IGE rece ae cs ie an, c a's os aia hyaisi Constance Trombley Research Associate .........-2-0. 00000 Donald L. Horowitz
DIS OCEO Te eee eee ee Porter M. Kier IASGISt ANE SPT ECLON sane ie iene eo nevere James F. Mello
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 497

<<<Page: 507>>>

Wiriter-EditOnme neon cee eee Administrative Officer Budget Analy stuce cutee ctor ci say atetsunjatcversts Staff Assistants to Director ............
eee ee eee ee ee ee oe
GhichotsExhibitsee ee eee ccc Coordinator, Office of Education Chief of ADP Program Buildings Managertjc scree ceils e crehs Anthropological Researcher ............ eoistranin any Atria ko eia ei ckemukscateloveroisnete Editor, Handbook of North American Mr caleara Spee es aor raes ere cacer Sree care eee cnet Operations Officer, Scientific Events Alert Network
Chatcmianyctew). Gosh x hae Sea ele sae SeniorsEthnologists asec oeeieel Curator, National Anthropological
AT CHIVES Wilma e aR REA lies a Amel, Gollections Managers eoee ooo Supervisor, Conservation Laboratory ... Supervisor, Processing Laboratory Public Information Specialist
Latin American Anthropology Curators
OOnt Od) O00 000 0e0' O00) O1c 0 Ovcon. ClO 6
Associate Curator
Old World Anthropology Curators
North American Anthropology Curators
Associate Curator
Ch 0 OpUe0! Our OOO GOO OO Chord
Linguistics Associate Curator
Physical Anthropology Curators
Associate Curator Chemist
OO, 0 Of OU DO Oo ClO. bed Ovo Oo Olo go Ol0 oO
? Appointed October 2, 1977. 5 Appointed October 3, 1977.
498 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Thomas R. Harney Charles Ossola John Townsend C. Willard Hart William P. Haynes Catherine Kerby Eugene F. Behlen Joan C. Madden T. Gary Gautier Jerome A. Conlon Samuel L. Stanley Margaret A. Santiago
William C. Sturtevant
David R. Squires
William W. Fitzhugh John C. Ewers Saul H. Riesenberg
Herman J. Viola U. Vincent Wilcox’ Carolyn L. Rose George E. Phebus Ruth O. Selig
Clifford Evans Robert M. Laughlin William H. Crocker
Gordon D. Gibson Eugene I. Knez William B. Trousdale Gus W. Van Beek
William W. Fitzhugh Dennis M. Stanford William C. Sturtevant Bruce D. Smith*®
R. H. Ives Goddard III
J. Lawrence Angel Donald J. Ortner Douglas H. Ubelaker Lucile E. St. Hoyme David W. Von Endt

<<<Page: 508>>>

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
James Adovasio (Archeology) Larry D. Banks (Geology) Alison S. Brooks (Archeology) Henry B. Collins (Archeology) Geoffrey W. Conrad (Archeology) Robert S. Corruccini (Physical Anthropology) Steven Cox (Archeology)* Paula Hesse (Archeology)° Richard T. Koritzer (Physical Anthropology) Betty J. Meggers (Archeology) Ann Palkovich (Physical Anthropology)
Ohana nce oo oro ee a aro aaa SENIOEEDOLATIISES: «Pics cic oe eee
Phanerogams
MOUICALOISMEIS TE cline es ce peaches
(Associate Curators 3. cscs osc cs ee 3 2
Ferns
IASSOGIAteGEUTatOL 6 6sg.s csc eine ee
Grasses
COREE a Bel GRINS Io en eR eRe
Cryptogams
(CURE ITO? +4255 backer
Palynology
Associaten trator (soe a ded sehe oes
Plant Anatomy
ETALOLS Bar an Pe ee as ah RTI Rs oe
C. J. Putschar (Physical Anthropology)
E. A. Richman (Physical Anthropology)®
Owen S. Rye (Archeology)
T. Dale Stewart (Physical Anthropology)
Mildred Mott Wedel (Archeology and Ethnohistory)
Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)
Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)
John E. Yellen (Archeology)
... Dieter C. Wasshausen ... Richard S. Cowan
Mason E. Hale, Jr.
.-Dan H. Nicolson
Dieter C. Wasshausen John J. Wurdack
... Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr.
Robert W. Read Marie-Heléne Sachet Stanwyn G. Shetler Laurence E. Skog
... David B. Lellinger
... Thomas R. Soderstrom
... Harold E. Robinson ... James N. Norris
... Joan Nowicke
... Edward S. Ayensu
Richard H. Eyde
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Katina Bucher (Cryptogams)
Paul S. Conger (Diatoms)
José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical South America)
Arthur Lyon Dahl (Algae)
* Appointed April 24, 1978. 5 Appointed March 1, 1978.
James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)
Marie L. Farr (Fungi)
F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Island Plants)’
Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)
® Appointed May 18, 1978. 7 Appointed August 1, 1978.
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 499

<<<Page: 509>>>

Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)
William H. Hathaway (Flora of Central America)
Paul A. Lentz (Fungi)
Elbert L. Little (Dendrology)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams)
Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams)
James L. Reveal (Phanerogams)
ENTOMOLOGY Chairman Collections Manager Senior Entomologist
Neuropteroids and Diptera Curator Associate Curator
ree er ee ee
Lepidoptera Curators
oe ee wee eee eee eee ee ee ee eo
Associate Curator
Ce ee ed
Coleoptera Curator Associate Curator
ee ee
CCC CC Cr ea)
Hemiptera and Hymenoptera Curators
eee reece ete eee see e eee eee oe
Myriapoda and Arachnida Curator
a} ast siteiiella) bv) ule! (0! \elie) -el eee) (0) lajjejjele)im (ele) lene
Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae) Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil) Seymour H. Sohmer (Phanerogams) Marie L. Solt (Melastomataceae) Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams) William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy) Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams) Francis A. Uecker (Fungi)
Egbert H. Walker (East Asian Flora)
Don R. Davis Gary F. Hevel Karl V. Krombein
Oliver S. Flint, Jr. Wayne N. Mathis
Don R. Davis
W. Donald Duckworth William D. Field
John M. Burns
Terry L. Erwin Paul J. Spangler
Richard C. Froeschner Paul D. Hurd, Jr.
2) Ralphres Grabill ir
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Charles P. Alexander (Diptera)
Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera)*®
Edward W. Baker (Mites)®
S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera)”
Doris Blake (Coleoptera)
S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera)
Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera)®
Frank L. Campbell (Insect Physiology)
Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera)
Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)
J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera)
Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka)
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)
John H. Fales (Lepidoptera)
Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera)*®
Richard H. Foote (Diptera)®
John G. Franclemont (Liepidoptera)
Raymond J. Gagné (Diptera)*®
® Appointed August 1, 1978.
500 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera)® E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera)® Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera)® Jon L. Herring (Hemiptera)* Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera)* Harry Hoogstraal (Medical Entomology) W. L. Jellison (Siphonaptera, Anoplura) John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera)* Lloyd Knutson (Diptera)*® James P. Kramer (Homoptera)*® Harold F. Loomis (Myriapoda) Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera)*® Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera)*® Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera)*® Carl F. W. Muesebeck (Hymenoptera) Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera) George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera)

<<<Page: 510>>>

Mary Livingston Ripley (General Entomology)
Louise M. Russell (Homoptera)°
Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera)*®
Robert L. Smiley (Mites)*
David R. Smith (Hymenoptera)*®
Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera)*
George C. Steyskal (Diptera)*
Mayna B. Stoetzel (Homoptera)*
F. Christian Thompson (Diptera)*
CISRIGT NETO eer a ps a oe
Crustacea
NESTE AEENTS Pitino. oi aie «el eieiere ie tevs leleiaie
Echinoderms
Ir AtOrset ey. ees ited c eae oes
Mollusks
MB ALOLS Et rai eiais eres o eisle breve oes aie
Worms
eratars ee ees ee esis eee ees
Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera)*®
Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)
Hayo H. W. Velthuis (Hymenoptera)
Ronald A. Ward (Medical Entomology)
Richard E. White (Coleoptera)*
Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera)®
Willis W. Wirth (Diptera)*
David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)
W. Duane Hope Fenner A. Chace, Jr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
J. Laurens Barnard Thomas E. Bowman Roger F. Cressey Louis S. Kornicker Raymond B. Manning
Frederick M. Bayer David L. Pawson Klaus Ruetzler
Arthur H. Clarke Richard S. Houbrick Clyde F. E. Roper Joseph Rosewater
Robert P. Higgins’ Meredith L. Jones Mary E. Rice
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
S. Stillman Berry (Mollusks)
J. Bruce Bredin (Biology)
Isabel C. Canet (Biology)
John C. Harshbarger (Marine Invertebrates)
Lipke B. Holthuis (Crustacea)
Roman Kenk (Worms)
J. Ralph Lichtenfels (Worms)
Patsy McLaughlin (Crustacea)
RGR asriniatierel: sl ciiccs 2 aialenshetl saves so Grdes
® Appointed August 1, 1978. ® Appointed March 12, 1978. ? Appointed August 1978.
™ Appointed March 1, 1978.
Marian Pettibone (Worms)””
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr. (Crustacea)
Harald A. Rehder (Mollusks)
Frank R. Schwengal (Mollusks)
I. G. Sohn (Crustacea)
Gilbert L. Voss (Mollusks)
Austin B. Williams (Crustacea)
David K. Young (Mollusks)
... Daniel E. Appleman”
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 501

<<<Page: 511>>>

Division of Meteorites
GCuUratOrsih Cheol ae oe eal sks Roy S. Clarke, Jr. Brian Mason Geochemistsaeeee eee eee Lee Kurt Fredriksson
Robert F. Fudali
Division of Mineralogy C@uratore ce nan Oe ee Metin ante oe Paul E. Desautels INssociatem@uratorme eee eee eee John S. White
Division of Petrology and Volcanology
Guratorsie seo a alee eicrstr torent rae Richard S. Fiske William G. Melson Thomas E. Simkin
Physical Sciences Laboratory Ghemistsi wipes aese eerste: Eugene Jarosewich Joseph A. Nelen
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Howard J. Axon (Meteorites) Peter A. Jezek (Petrology) Vago F. Buchwald (Meteorites) Peter Leavens (Mineralogy) William C. Buell IV (Volcanology) Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy) Gary R. Byerly (Petrology) Arthur Roe (Mineralogy) Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites) George Switzer (Mineralogy) John Filson (Petrology) Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology) Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy)” Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology) Martin Flower (Petrology) John J. Trelawney (Mineralogy) John J. Gurney (Petrology) Suzanne Wass (Meteorites)”
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites)
Chairman gnc. on eraiocing shia seeo: Martin A. Buzas
Paleobiologists Emeritus ............ G. Arthur Cooper C. Lewis Gazin
Gollections Managera-c shite Frederick J. Collier
Invertebrate Paleontology
Gurators see nee Sena eis eo laniecis Richard M. Benson Richard S. Boardman Martin A. Buzas Alan H. Cheetham Richard Cifelli Richard E. Grant Erle G. Kauffman Porter M. Kier Thomas R. Waller
Geologist Pee Me Rm mel ees, Kenneth M. Towe Vertebrate Paleontology Guratorsni sieeve cvs cicusge nici tesseeestets aaes Nicholas Hotton III Clayton E. Ray Associate) Guratony a5 46ee oe Robery J. Emry % Appointed June 19, 1978. * Appointed October 1, 1977. 8 Appointed April 1, 1978. © Appointed June 1978.
502 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 512>>>

Paleobotany
GcTratOrsji nae 6 5d ce ae ee eee
Sedimentology
(CUIRALIOTS, “Big SOOO nara eran Geological Oceanographer ....... RGRIPESE NGG sins «i is wigs ed Bae) 016)*
Walter H. Adey Leo J. Hickey Francis M. Hueber
Jack W. Pierce Daniel J. Stanley Ian G. Macintyre
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Patricia Adey Arthur J. Boucot Sankar Chatterjee” Anthony G. Coates Raymond Douglass J. Thomas Dutro Douglas Emlong Ralph E. Eshelman Jerzy A. Federowski Robert M. Finks Mackenzie Gordon, Jr. Richard Graus
Peter J. Harmatuk Bruce N. Haugh Joseph E. Hazel
S. Taseer Hussain” Ralph W. Imlay Jeremy B. C. Jackson Gilbert Kelling Harry S. Ladd
N. Gary Lane Kenneth E. Lohman Venka V. Macintyre Andrés Maldonado Sergius H. Mamay
CINGITD IT 2 SRE eee rere
Fishes
Gurators) Hse kes Sah evs meee
Associate) Gurator 2.00.5: 65086
Reptiles and Amphibians
SUTALOTS Eee ee eee
¥* Appointed January 13, 1978. ™ Appointed October 14, 1977. *8 Appointed October 14, 1977.
*® Appointed January 12, 1978.
*° Appointed February 1, 1978.
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 503
James F. Mello Robert B. Neuman William A. Oliver, Jr. Thomas F. Phelen John Pojeta, Jr.
Roy H. Reinhart”* Charles A. Repenning E. Carol Roth”
Jan J. Roth
Bruce Runnegar™ William J. Sando™ Frederick R. Siegel Elwyn L. Simons™ Judith E. Skog Norman F. Sohl Steven M. Stanley Robert S. Steneck Margaret Ruth Todd Ronald R. West” Frank C. Whitmore, Jr. Druid Wilson
John W. Wilson Wendell P. Woodring Ellis P. Yochelson
George R. Zug™
Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. Ernest A. Lachner Victor G. Springer Stanley H. Weitzman William R. Taylor
W. Ronald Heyer George R. Zug
= Appointed January 1, 1978.
*° Appointed October 14, 1977. *3 Appointed February 15, 1978. * Appointed October 9, 1977.

<<<Page: 513>>>

Birds
Guratorsy ace cee ornoneeeiteele
Associates Guratorsmere eee
Mammals
GuTatOrsi ey ee A eeiaua arate Lapeer
iNssociate: Curaton cone seco
George E. Watson Richard L. Zusi Storrs Olson
Paul Slud
Charles O. Handley, Jr. Henry W. Setzer
Richard W. Thorington, Jr. James G. Mead
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
John W. Aldrich (Birds)
Ronald Gail Altig (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Richard C. Banks (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)
Michael A. Bogan (Mammals)
James E. Bohlke (Fishes)
Ronald A. Brandon (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Robert L. Brownell (Mammals)
Howard W. Campbell (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)
Robert K. Enders (Mammals)”
Carl H. Ernst (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Herbert Friedmann (Birds)
Jeffery Froelich (Mammals)
Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)
Richard Highton (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Marshall A. Howe (Birds)
James H. Huheey (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Philip S. Humphrey (Birds)
George J. Jacobs (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Frances C. James (Birds)
Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)
Gordon L. Kirkland (Mammals)”
E. V. Komarek (Mammals)
Irving Kornfield (Fishes)
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)
J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)
Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)
Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)
William F. Perrin (Mammals)
Dioscoro S. Rabor (Birds)
Randall R. Reeves (Mammals)”
S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)
Brian Robbins (Mammals)
Rudolfo Ruibal (Reptiles, Amphibians)
William Schevill (Mammals)
Leonard P. Schultz (Fishes)
David W. Steadman (Birds)”
Ian R. Straughan (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Stephen G. Tilley (Reptiles, Amphibians)
Richard Wassersug (Reptiles, Amphibians)
John C. Weske (Birds)
Alexander Wetmore (Birds)
Ralph E. Wetzel (Mammals)
James D. Williams (Fishes)
Don E. Wilson (Mammals)
Directories ee eet eerie Supervisory Marine Biologists .....
Oceanographer iat einen seit
2° Appointed March 1, 1978. 8 Appointed February 1, 1978. 27 Appointed December 1, 1977.
504 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Frank D. Ferrari” Herman A. Fehlmann Gordon Hendler” Leslie Knapp
Bettie J. Landrum Ernani Menez
Cathy J. Kerby
*8 Appointed January 1, 1978. 7» Appointed January 1, 1978. ®* Appointed November 13, 1977.

<<<Page: 514>>>

PRISPCROEE se ectet = star ho Pee wee P Ree Sc. Theodore H. Reed LETC EIS c) ee a ee Edward Kohn General Curator, Office of Animal
Mama rementy jeiyescyracrale sistelele = «5, <yarch Jaren G. Horsely CUE ORS PB SSG ae ORAS CT os a etir Daryl Boness
Harold J. Egoscue Dale L. Marcellini Olav Oftedal Charles W. Pickett, Jr. Miles S. Roberts William A. Xanten, Jr. Scientist-in-Charge, Office of Zoological eRe areNe tne ck ihe clan ph hse udess John F. Eisenberg SIE CROLATE: c-ccc 5 WETS, ele «cles Devra G. Kleiman Eugene S. Morton Katherine Ralls mesaeiate in ECOlO SY (a. s2 awe 2c «= <)e S. Dillon Ripley
Research Associates:
Jean Delacour Theodore Grand Rasnayagam Rudran Wolfgang Dittus Robert Hoage John C. Seidensticker IV Alfred L. Elliott Edgardo Mondolfi Susan A. Wilson
Edwin Gould Galen B. Rathbun Bernard Zook (DILLALPCTD See ee ene eee Paul Leyhausen
Chief, Office of Animal Health ........ Mitchell Bush
Semon Vetciifiafiatl . ... 2.2.3. 6s ese sees Clinton W. Gray™
Ghiet Office of Pathology ............: Richard J. Montali
Research Associates (Pathology) : Joseph P. Crisler K. J. Kwon-Chung Ulysses S. Seal
Gary Hodgen William Marsh Marsha Serre Robert Jenness Peter Nye John D. Strandberg Lloyd Knutson Tom J. Quan Charles O. Thoen Curator-in-Charge, Conservation and
J BSE2 G2 thy So 1 ee RR ne oe a Christen M. Wemmer Chief, Office of Public Affairs ......... Patricia Hurley GhiehO@ftice of Education) ....-..-... 1. < Judith White
Chief, Office of Graphics and Exhibits.. Robert E. Mulcahy Acting Chief, Office of Construction
LES Doi a i al ilo ee em David Boothe Chief, Office of Facilities Management.. Emanuel Petrella Chief, Office of Police and Safety ..... Samuel L. Middleton, Jr. Chief, Office of Management Services .. Vincent J. Doyle Director, Friends of the National Zoo .. Sabin Robbins
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Rebecca Field, Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University, Research Affiliate
Mary S. Geitgey, University of Maryland, Research Assistant
Galen B. Rathbun, Ph.D., University of Maryland, Research Associate
John Robinson, University of North Carolina, Research Affiliate
Christine M. Schonewald, Ph.D., University of Maryland, Research Associate
= Retired July 31, 1978.
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 505

<<<Page: 515>>>

Director *..)5)5 5 Je Pag stds cuir William H. Klein AG sistanta Dine clo Gane iirc W. Shropshire, Jr. AgriculturalvEngineer cic) reer > John Sager Anthropologist erreyiite aeietae oltre er Robert Stuckenrath BiochemlistSaereceieree eer nerlor ar Ora Canaani Maurice Margulies Biologists eases sterner tere oe oer okeroueieciere ol = Elisabeth Gantt Rebecca Hayes Biophysicistieqacie oe ice oie ines o/s oles Merten Jabben Developmental Biologist .............. Gloria Devore Geneticist: a eee a eter elev ouewesure Roy W. Harding, Jr. PY SICIS Ey eo Ce uaic/ietcecalc yer cueialele aeanete Bernard Goldberg Physiological Ecologistsii. oa412 <li Theodore DeJong Bert Drake Stephen Turitzin Plantiehysiologistsaacere cameos eer Charles F. Cleland
Gerald Deitzer John L. Edwards William Elliott Tetzuya Katoh William O. Smith Tomatsu Tanaka Solar Radiation Biologist .............. David W. Hopkins
(Including Harvard Members of the Center for Astrophysics)
Director, Sac) ies on tee aoe sincere George B. Field Assistant DinectoLmeneneeerneionice John G. Gregory Kaare Aksnes Alex Dalgarno Eugene H. Avrett Marc Davis
James G. Baker Robert J. Davis John A. Ball Anthony J. DeGregoria Doron Bardas John P. Delvaille Cardon Bartley Dale F. Dickinson Barbara Beli Bruce Draine*
John H. Black Theodore Dunham Paul E. Boynton Andrea K. Dupree Graziella Branduardi Bruce Elmegreen Robert Brown Arnold S. Epstein
A. G. W. Cameron Giuseppina Fabbiano Nathaniel P. Carleton S. Michael Fall* Frederic Chaffee Giovanni G. Fazio Eric J. Chaisson Edward L. Fireman Steven Christensen Brian P. Flannery Giuseppe Colombo William Forman Eustratios Constantinides Peter V. Foukal
Alan F. Cook Fred A. Franklin
* Center for Astrophysics Postdoctoral Fellows.
506 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 516>>>

Daryl E. Freeman Edward M. Gaposchkin Margaret Geller Riccardo Giacconi Owen Gingerich Leon Golub
Paul Gorenstein Carl A. Gottlieb Richard E. Griffiths Jonathan Grindlay Mario Grossi Steven Guberman Herbert Gursky Wendy Hagen* Frank R. Harnden, Jr. Lee Hartmann Thomas Hartquist Timothy Heil Henry F. Helmken Claude T. Herzberg John, P. Huchra* Luigi G. Jacchia Christine Jones-Forman Paul F. Julien
Paul Kalaghan Wolfgang Kalkofen Edwin Kellogg Kate Kirby-Docken Douglas Kleinmann John L. Kohl
Max Krook
Robert L. Kurucz Charles J. Lada David Latham David Layzer Myron Lecar Martin Levine Randolph Levine Margaret N. Lewis Alan Lightman Martha Liller William Liller
A. Edward Lilley Marvin Litvak Keith MacGregor* Marcos Machado Brian G. Marsden Ursula Marvin Edward Mattison Alan Maxwell Richard E. McCrosky Brian P. McBreen Marshall Melin
Lawrence W. Mertz James Moran Stephen S. Murray Robert W. Noyes Michael Oppenheimer Costas Papaliolios William H. Parkinson Daniel P. Parsignault Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin Michael R. Pearlman Geraldine Peters William Press Harrison E. Radford John C. Raymond Edmond M. Reeves Fred Rosenberg Robert Rosner Micheline Roufosse George B. Rybicki Paul L. Schechter Rudolph E. Schild Herbert Schnopper Ethan J. Schreier Daniel A. Schwartz Joseph Schwarz Zdenek Sekanina Frederick D. Seward Charles Skinner Wayne L. Slattery Peter L. Smith Robert Stachnik Paul O. Taylor
J. Gethyn Timothy Wesley A. Traub Wallace H. Tucker Edwin L. Turner Giuseppe S. Vaiana Leon P. van Speybroeck Jorge E. Vernazza Robert F. C. Vessot George Victor
Peter Vitello*
Trevor C. Weekes Steven Weinberg Heinz Weiser
Fred L. Whipple George L. Withbroe Charles A. Whitney John A. Wood Francis W. Wright Kouichi Yoshino Martin V. Zombeck
* Center for Astrophysics Postdoctoral Fellows.
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 507

<<<Page: 517>>>

Director Special Assistant to Director Assistant Director Assistant Director (Academic Programs) . Senior Scientist
ee eeceee see oe
Marine Coordinator Educational Coordinator Administrative Officer Facilities Manager Librarian
Oe Ce CC ee sissies! ieje\lel se, levielielic/(etiel selec) isiverle CC re
Scientific Staff:
John Cubit
Robert L. Dressler
Mary Jane West Eberhard Peter W. Glynn
Egbert Leigh, Jr.
Olga F. Linares
Harilaos Lessios
Gerald G. Montgomery
Research Associates: Annette Aiello Humberto Alvarez Robin Andrews Carlos Arellano L. Charles F. Bennett, Jr. José Ignacio Borrero Gordon M. Burghardt Richard Cooke Reinaldo Diaz V. William G. Eberhard Nathan Gale
Pedro Galindo Carmen Glynn
Assistant Secretary .................+.Special Assistants to the Assistant Secretary
COO OO OOP ONO IG) CeO OOo Oa Deco. Cobnch iG
NEW YORK (ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE) Director
WASHINGTON (PROCESSING OFFICE) Deputy Director/Archivist Administrative Officer Secretary
Ce aD Ce ee
Oy ORR CHOU Cer CC Ciuc Ch eco. Cine Cid) Od)
508 / Smithsonian Year 1978
Ira Rubinoff
Adela Gomez
A. Stanley Rand Neal G. Smith Martin H. Moynihan Nicholas Smythe Roberta W. Rubinoff Dennis Josephs
Luis R. del Rio Thomas R. Borges Alcira Mejia
Elena Lombardo Georgina DeAlba
David Ross Robertson Michael H. Robinson Arcadio F. Rodaniche Robert E. Silberglied Alan P. Smith
Donald Windsor Hindrik Wolda
Jeffrey B. Graham Deborah Caldwell Hahn Jane Lubchenco Yael Lubin
Ernst Mayr
Bruce Menge Anthony Ranere Tyson Roberts Barbara Robinson Gordon B. Small W. John Smith Henry Stockwell Paulo E. Vanzolini
Charles Blitzer
Dean Anderson Susan Hamilton
William E. Woolfenden
Garnett McCoy Richard J. Nicastro Elizabeth C. James

<<<Page: 518>>>

Curator of Manuscripts Assistant Curator of Manuscripts Area Collector
aye ele pile Sia\in = feels) s se e}e”e.e! (0) see = wis
Bn wlelia, 6) ae) e)e wks ie vl eiele
Microfilmer
eie)\e) (e)\s, 6p) eee (0 (alice ce! ©] a) @) © (6)\e) 00:00 .0 0
NEW YORK AREA OFFICE Area Director Secretary Eel eReseAarChner. .4.0. 2.6: <2 iciNownisolot es oes
Avice = aka) (oie fay a9 ‘etnj ee) se kehelele) © 0) ee b's ©
BOSTON AREA OFFICE Area Director Secretary Archives Technician Archives Clerk
Mime’) e °e. (eta) @ 6.0m! 8 /.e\ 0) 0 }s\\e\6 ¢ 06) s\'s\e mw feljel vs ee ee ses ts s\\e\e\e\s © (ha « e's) e018 @\ (6) 0\j= 6/10) le s)\s. ls, ofele e'/e..¥) ss
©) (o) aSs «| wlinle, 6 «es © &.6\ ee © © © 0 2.0
DETROIT AREA OFFICE Area Director Administrative Aide Archives Technicians
aiellslieXa’ «= (o) = 2% e| © 1a ee) © 0 avis tee ele Se) (=> 's/s |e) ® (W186) 0/8) 01 \e\\e, 8, 0) 0,0
SAN FRANCISCO AREA OFFICE Area Director Secretary Archives Technician
i e) 0.6) u, )ie/(6)\6, 00) 0 ‘6 slo) e)\e) ee 10) e\(e)le16
oe ess DIC Oi GiGi CO Banh olecick Gicecert Oe cae
Sie ieleis) 6 ine! sim\\e''s ©) © (0),0) 0.0
Arthur Breton Nancy Zembala Julie Link Haifley Linda Best
Fred Donohue Ann Ferrante Buck Pennington Judy Reis
Judith Thom Susan Williams Gloria Robinson
William McNaught Jemison Hammond Ivor Avellino
Robert Brown Lane Rogers Joyce Tyler Demetra Pulos
Dennis Barrie Marilyn Wheaton Marilyn Florek Jeannie Bentley
Paul Karlstrom Sue Coffey Karen Davis
Ssielteeliaelsie eae ce 20s, s els sis 0 0.0. 0 8 \e « '¢
aisle) = ee elses ls @) eels e 6 © ee ee 0
Business Manager Curator of Drawings and Prints Technician for Drawings and Prints .... Curator of Textiles Consultant for Textiles Curator of Architecture and Design . Registrar Assistant Registrar Exbapiion Coordinator. ....... 2)<....+:+--+. EA PIBUHON: RESCATCH, 6.00.5 o\e os cc es a s'ee a 0 Exhibition Designer: «0. <.:.<6:0 «s,s «21.00 » 0s Program Coordinators
nije) iniial wife) ee). e),eille' (se (0; 8 6s ~
Pie, ee 6) eile
o ejel\si'e (6) = \0)\e. ee. \nllo 0s © Je 0) 0
ww is .«)\s) aw wip is © 66 e) 6
Se. S in a mile) eisciee) a6) 66.0, 's el wy nes a6. «0 \e10
p),0)-6. 6)'s 0) (=, "0, Bi wis ia) \o \e 0: @ 0,8
© else 0.16 0 0.6 6 0 oe
Membership Coordinator .............. PPOCTARLCAGSISEANE foo seis ca. pceld we oven 08 Librarian Building Manager Chief of Security Assistant to the Director Secretary to the Director’... ........,
Slee mise) shake «ns \6g0! eis :0).0),e 6 s\\5) 00) @ \6'e-ei,0
CU Cir ace Cecect rec ge WT et ete
NO oS CA er
Lisa Taylor Christian Rohlfing Vacant
Kurt Struver Elaine Evans Dee Xenia Cage
Milton Sonday Alice Baldwin Beer Richard Oliver Elizabeth Burnham Sheila Silverman Dorothy Twining Globus Lucy Fellowes Robin Parkinson Jane Clark Jennifer Jarvis Mary Kerr
Linda Currie Robert Kaufmann Vincent Salierno Luis Palau
Pamela Theodoredis Susan Yelavich
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 509

<<<Page: 519>>>

Receptionist ie terriceeerlbereeron rset els Sandra Dana
RublicationsMEditoneceee eee ern Brenda Gilchrist Pitarree IEC Yoocongoooodobanouonado Lisa Little mextilesGonservator gone circle er Lucy Commoner Rublicukelationsmaremeeeoe oe eed: Isabelle Silverman ibranywAssistam try seiecten rr orerernrelic: Margaret Luchars Bundy GontroluGleskanenneeeer setae cel Elizabeth McKirdie Procurementn Glerauanaeee ee ee Alan Dunn Museum Shop Manager .............-Ann Mitchell
DiTeCtON ee Oe eee tee eee Thomas Lawton
EXE CULIVERASSIST Antari tarred ctr Richard Louie Associate Curator, Chinese Art ........ Hin-cheung Lovell Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art ... Esin Atil
Assistant Curator, American Art ...... Susan Hobbs
Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory. W. Thomas Chase III @onsenvatorseneo eee einen: John Winter
Lynda A. Zycherman Research Curator, Far Eastern Ceramics. John A. Pope
ReseanchimAssistantame cinerea rac Josephine H. Knapp [Eibraniangen crores eerie socks Priscilla P. Smith Administrative Officers. sclera elk Willa R. Moore Repistrare so. se epseecresonicuiPupete = scien: Eleanor Radcliffe ANESISEING IRGAGEEWR boglasoocobescgo0008 Judy M. Keene Honorary, Associates) creepy screier: Richard Edwards
Calvin French
DIT CET Vis Ho ilirieatea: RN arate ore ler cieattate Abram Lerner Deputy ADInectOrygy ee mocks aeiaes se ee Stephen E. Weil Atdiministrativer © ficers csi aii seyret ok Nancy F. Kirkpatrick Ghie Curator elcre vic ciactsreeiixch ache Charles W. Millard GuratonoteExhibitionSaase eee eee ee Cynthia J. McCabe CuratontonsArchivesiscaanarc oe ecice Inez Garson Associates Guratorsieieaeeeeice aaceanen Frank Gettings
Phyllis Rosenzweig Judith Zilczer
INEIBING (CURES naccocccoasonos0co00s Howard Fox Miranda McClintic ibrarianies aco oni gamie ciocerae eerie Anna Brooke @onsenvatoneeeeo eee Cone ene Laurence Hoffman Rieeistrar yee sent cere caichs eevee eserel oes Douglas Robinson GhieHrEducationiaae se eee eeecee Edward Lawson Ghief) Exhibits and Designyese eae Joseph Shannon ImformationiopecialiStaemnee aero Sidney Lawrence Photographer. eaeectcc cs cisiee aes seo: John Tennant Building Service Coordinator ........... Frank Underwood
Editors 22 ka.doeundane Suiretisciteysl conte ream hats Nathan Reingold NGOS JEehioi? aoahotovovosounbocou Ge Arthur P. Molella ANecieeintc ECHO oocousbadbedaedooopoOt Marc Rothenberg Stattullistorian anna aao aoe Kathleen Waldenfels
510 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 520>>>

esearch) Assistant) 2... 00 sci cece cece Joan F. Steiner 22 20g i es eae a ee Beverly Jo Lepley
= COE TID ge on ae Joshua C. Taylor EISSistAME DVITECIOL « S). 2 esis fo nie eines cies © Harry Lowe PRORMITSEDAROE 2 moos d.c:siciale Sieieieimcicia'e H. Eugene Kelson Associate Administrator ............... Charles Robertson Associate Curator and Chairman, 20th
Century Painting and Sculpture ...... Harry Rand Consultant, 20th Century Painting
MEAP SCHIDIULE <.. jas 5 = 1s as dees es Adelyn Breeskin Curator, 18th and 19th Century Painting
BSR MIPENTE’? \ oo 5 oso ok Sle a oie eels William H. Truettner Associate Curator, 18th and 19th Century
Pamtnge and Sculpture ............5% Robin Bolton-Smith Curator, Prints and Drawings .......... Janet Flint Assistant Curator, Prints and Drawings.. Martina Norelli Wmratore: Education. .2..52:.. 2... ..... +. Peter Bermingham Associate Curator of Education ........ Teresa Grana Director, Kenwick Gallery ............ Lloyd Herman Associate Curator, Renwick Gallery .... Michael Monroe Manararior Research. «.. «sie: iidleds.+ ss Lois Fink
Chief, Office of Exhibition and Design .. David Keeler Assistant Chief, Office of Exhibition and SEL STL 0S Ae Val Lewton COPSCRVALOE pam Nee Oe Oe ao nee Thomas Carter Katherine Eirk Stefano Scafetta
Editor, Office of Publications ........... Carroll Clark Chief, Office of Public Affairs ......... Margery Byers Chief, Office of Slides and Photography ._ Eleanor Fink Chief, Office of Program Support ..... Lois Bingham Coordinator, Inventory of American
eMC INES ore Me gi, 2s a2 he ayo e858 Martha Andrews Letbrariany INGEA/NPG! <2 .22.2-....6¢2% William B. Walker
RCE VIOSTCCIOF 2 25) ASS cereale Otto Mayr
MEA A PAS SIS EAR cs 21. Bi Bia toca stew ts Sate oe Josiah Hatch
Assistant Director for Administration .. Robert G. Tillotson
Administrative: Officer, .... 2) .2/ii\e ost css Jean J. Middleton
ABE EC Ged SEE eee epee Virginia Beets
pissistame WRepiSiTAT . 2.022 cibwi cess ese Martha Morris
Public Information Officer ............. Geraldine E. Sanderson
Coordinator of Education .............. Alice Reno Malone
Museum Research Specialist ........... Warren J. Danzenbaker
EAISCORIATIG ery Nero ts restr EO = ereeebit Robert C. Post
Semioriilistoriaie sa see ee eke eee Brooke Hindle
Senior Scientific Scholar 2225... 2. . 2-1 Robert P. Multhauf CULTURAL HISTORY
ett MN ABTIMATE: «21/512. hic 4. ho ato 0 5-0 Anne C. Golovin
SeniorsGuratort .<oe eeee C. Malcolm Watkins
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 511

<<<Page: 521>>>

Ceramics and Glass Acting i Siupervisor aa) an ecioeeiel sia ck Anne C. Golovin Gon’sultantavcw mais cin or es lereeare J. Jefferson Miller IT
Community Life Curators. ee er we Hs amoebae cae Richard E. Ahlborn Carl H. Scheele
Costume GUTAEOR. Ni Meey ame eter tn aR ary SE OI i hb Claudia B. Kidwell Guratoriemenrituspssee ewes oe seer Anne W. Murray
Domestic Life Gator ee yet ie es Re eon ata as Rodris C. Roth INssociatenG@uratonn entree Anne C. Golovin
Graphic Arts
AGsociatenCunatonin nena cco ca Elizabeth M. Harris Musical Instruments Guratorseye eee eee ere ciaye John T. Fesperman Cynthia A. Hoover Associate Guratorn eee eon occ: James M. Weaver Honorary Research Associates: Geramicsiand:Glassmerpe ieee Hans Syz Domestic Wike wy eee neater Ivor Noel Hume Joan Pearson Watkins Musicalinstrumentsi mo eccrine cee sere Mrs. Sheridan Germann NATIONAL HISTORY Chairman he ce Gee RU Bee cvatenty os Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli
Military History GURAtO ae eee tN ice ae UA aration Craddock R. Goins, Jr. Ncsociaten Guratore neem eer Donald E. Kloster
Naval History G@uratorsn rier eweue ts ol es soeey eer ter eee Philip K. Lundeberg Harold D. Langley
Numismatics Ga ratO rs hrs ee cee rae aS teers ibaa strane Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli Elvira Clain-Stefanelli
Political History
Guratorsi eee ie me rere: Margaret B. Klapthor Herbert R. Collins Assistant Curatorial Edith P. Mayo
Postal History IAcsocintem@uratorsiee ae ee cris Franklin R. Bruns, Jr. Reidar Norby
Honorary Research Associates:
Militaryullistoryi. cteye sci ooteteyetca leaner Anne S. K. Brown Navalwblistonyarvazrsenetieicle tee iether teen Lee Houchins Niamismiatics sere price crciteientele or oichets R. Henry Norweb
Emery May Norweb
HISTORY OF SCIENCE Chairman: 2 eicpieee ca cestacreasiate yore) sasecolevelsiaye Bernard S. Finn
512 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 522>>>

Electricity and Modern Physics COAT Ce Sei WL AR UA Hee Bernard S. Finn Paul Forman
Mathematics
RGCIEALOTME TS eis Se ee ee ace aS sce Ba Uta C. Merzbach Mechanisms
S22 eS ea Sede en eee Otto Mayr
Medical Sciences
REAR foo) Nn eat 6% wn) 61a) aint ne aie Sues (0 Audrey B. Davis PASSIStatit mC UratOM (6.6.64 /s sis os Severe ems se es Ramunas A. Kondratas
Physical Sciences
Reese CR EMME 2 SHI war dies MEER bd iad es Susan Faye Cannon
INSSORIGTEMC@UTALOLS: foe euccicunsios:c Ope, Jon B. Eklund Deborah J. Warner
Honorary Research Associates:
GiftecnoteChoinman %. 2 ....2070. sa aes Bern Dibner Derek J. De Solla Price Electricity and Modern Physics ........ Ladislaus L. Marton Gerald F. J. Tyne Pnesteal ICiences 521...) VEEN Sie wdis dies Arthur Frazier HISTORY OF TECHNOLOGY Slaten! See eee ear John T. Schlebecker Extractive Industries (CONNOR 3 ole. d eae an eR IRA IR Ree eae John T. Schlebecker WonmeriresG@unator fh slo oe etek John N. Hoffman Va PSS ig) OUST Ee 6) George T. Sharrer Mechanical and Civil Engineering (CP Ey Dp a) a ee Te la Robert M. Vogel Photographic History OEE oS a eee ee Eugene Ostroff Textiles COMRIIGE 30 GOR Beco IE Se eee Rita J. Adrosko Transportation NERA ANCE EON PP AIOE oie tdl Sie tw le.ioln aid ans John H. White
Don H. Berkebile Honorary Research Associates:
Mechanical and Civil Engineering ...... Charles T. G. Looney Pee RESEHEE ATO NN pee) och 08 x, d)4, «le, aynleleslate Oe Peter Bell Arthur D. Dubin WARN A RST SIRI ens tS cas, & e'siha sre! 6 2 eh se Edwin A. Battison OFFICE OF EXHIBITS Assistant Director for Exhibits ......... Benjamin W. Lawless Chief, Exhibits Management ........... Richard S. Virgo Acting Chief, Exhibits Design .......... William Miner @hief Exhibits Production! .-..2...5...Walter N. Lewis OFFICE OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT Building Managers.) 2...te s « Seiscd oc Lawrence A. Bush
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY DirectOta-tintc st oe ee: Sore Taetet a ores ... Marvin Sadik
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 513

<<<Page: 523>>>

Deputy Director and Administrative
OMICET IES PMI PY SEEE ee ePe tere ctitersune ke Douglas E. Evelyn FAIS tOriamaysiaceal oaks ee a To lok eueeiG Marc Pachter Gira toner e ele eae creer a alone ore Robert G. Stewart Associates Guratorsurecuticcc ochecre uae Monroe Fabian
Ellen Miles Goordinatorlof Exhibitions; -.2 4... .----'Beverly J. Cox Guratonmoteducations eee eee oe Dennis O’Toole Associate Curator of Education ........ Kenneth Yellis
Chief, Exhibits Design and Production .. Nello Marconi Keeper of the Catalog of American
POrtraitsmer ccc se ne okie <iueiscintvn See cisyeNe Mona Dearborn National Survey Coordinator of the Catalog of American Portraits ....... Richard K. Doud
Editor of the Charles Willson Peale Papers and Historian of American
Gultureys eng ieee Oe OnPe ontos Lillian B. Miller | Eoh Toh ONS SRR CEPR REN Be, Paint hs aire Ione Frances S. Wein Senior GConsenvatomnee oe eo ole Felrath Hines ibranian (INRG=NGEA) Maan eo William B. Walker Photographers seins gees serail creraer. Eugene Mantie Registrants c.2).15 os ihoeraet wi eaters sercicie Suzanne Jenkins RiblicnAttairsa@ ficerm eee Susanne Roschwalb
Directors ila sct ae ree ce tothe es ephemeris ener ehe Wilcomb E. Washburn Secretary io s'5 es eachey sean eee aot rae Debra Reich
FOLKLIFE UNIT Director: hee sae oon eit ee oes Ralph Rinzler Seniombolklonistiea oe ae Peter Seitel Administrative: Officer, Saen-se eee ee nee Betty Beuck Program ‘Goordinaton) -/.-22 see eee oe Jeffrey LaRiche Ethnomusicolocistareemeaoreeeerere eee: Thomas Vennum Bolklonists) ters Meena thacen ete ha rece naa ee Susan Kalcik
John F. Santino
Steven Zeitlin Sound and Video Specialist ............ Richard Derbyshire Designer vac wera accra soe oreo Janet Stratton
Director iy) sii) ae ees cho ie aiel ound ene oie Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth Associates Directoneyay hero eee Edward Davidson (Grermnis Sawasinists soscobacstionccovccar Francine Berkowitz
Betty Wingfield
Assistant Secretary ................... Paul N. Perrot EXectiverAssistantan nee aie ieee William N. Richards National Museum Act Coordinator ..... F. Matilda Wells
LS) 11) RoR aa, eee oar Robert M. Organ Research '@hemist r-kvciery oy hereruorers ae aes Jacqueline S. Olin
514 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 524>>>

Supervisory Conservator .............. Eleanor McMillan maministrative Officer sie ic ujso.ds 0 ses Montague Smith RENNES OES 55/0), 5 3.5) ols ks) Soto pale sp Sahni se! sve Walter Angst Mary L. Garbin Nikki Horton Conservation-Scientist, X-ray Diffraction Joan Mishara Conservation-Scientist, X-ray
BIO TESCENCEM Sickie i tee woe Peter Waldstein
REPRISES 6 oc css 5 5 ss So He daisceere a ss Walter Hopwood Harold Westley
MACtAMMIECISES Oo. os ols ebb belo ee ee ees Martha E. Goodway 23257 3 Ge eae Zelma Coleman Male DISET eee oA ee Ber oe ced L. Susan Tolbert Clerk (Typing) (700-hour appointment) . Hetty Barthel Gonservation Technician .......:...... Carol Callahan Technical Information Specialist ....... John Fuller Postdoctoral Eellow .....55.2. «0000008 James M. Blackman Visiting Research Student ............. Jody Shiffman
SE 2S Sas See entero James A. Mahoney OSS SST SA Gi ee ee Constance Minkin Admunsstrative Officer 3.22... 0560508808 William M. Clark ietog Design. «ioe. 5. sss eee cee es es James A. Mahoney Assistant Chief of Design ............. Kenneth V. Young Ghefiofibroduction). 2. 22... -..5-see.sJohn C. Widener Assistant Chief of Production .......... Joseph W. Saunders Supervisor, Exhibit Editors Office ...... Constance Minkin Director, Motion Picture Unit ......... Karen Loveland Supervisor, Museum Lighting Unit ..... Carroll B. Lusk Ereeze Dry/Taxidermy .......05.....0+% Rolland Hower
DITCCLORM Ste oo eneeele James R. Buckler
ASSIS LATEOIECCEOL. 2 4 rlis sas Seis se sb 8s John W. Monday Administrative Services Assistant ...... Michele C. Sengsourinh” Administrative Services Clerk .......... Sandra L. Conway
SRC VEIN 7 >| Bae hee a Cee eee cee er Rebecca A. Evans Horticulture: Technician «2... <i. ho. 6% Lauranne C. Nash Foreman, Grounds Management Division Kenneth Hawkins Foreman, Greenhouse-Nursery Division . August A. Dietz IV
DEES Ge RS ee a Cee ees ee Kennedy B. Schmertz DIS EO) Din ee cy ena ae en Richard T. Conroy
OPE Ana OGICE Tis 7.05 ee Vo Aaa eS Sas LeRoy Makepeace International Liaison Specialist ......... Saundra Tilghman-Thomas
Peepram Manager: sii... ccess ose sas% Jane R. Glaser mdnunistrative Officer (oA 4.4.6 ges ss. os « Gwendolyn G. Baker Assistant Program Manager, Training .. Nancy L. Murphy
® Resigned March 3, 1978.
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 515

<<<Page: 525>>>

Native American Museum Training
Coordinators a ees eters mate James A. Hanson Program Coordinator, Conservation
Information erogramy erie ee icle Elena Borowski Television Production Specialist ........ Peter R. Erikson Audio-Visual Production Specialist ..... Eleanor D. Crow Program yASsistantie acco ee erence Mary B. Nugent Psychologist/ Evaluator) ey. .5 soe se cls: Robert Wolf Reference Center Librarian ............ Rhoda Ratner
Registrars is. y pit mescceniepsteciarcneia eho ee acts Philip Leslie Assistant RegiStrag .) ysis cian clelsmiane o> Mary W. Lund ManagementjAssistamt)). (pte wh lee 2 slo) © Melva L. Simmons Secretamysiic ete ataccc lens alensieies oles seatatars akcuetelises Stephen Boruchowitz
ATCHIVists SAN LAS ie a ear en Saale Richard H. Lytle Deputy Archivist) iacaers te moet clases William A. Deiss AssociatevArchivistusemcomcmence acc: Allan L. Bain IASsistanbeArchivistsae -etaeeeoe eae James A. Steed Richard V. Szary Supervisory Archives Technician ...... Norwood N. Biggs Oraliiiistoriany . ceo Mewes Pamela M. Hensen
Acting Director of Libraries ........... Jean C. Smith Administrative |Libranian’). uc Thomas L. Wilding Administrative) Officer) 22 <2 ales le eyes Mary C. Quinn Assistant Director of Libraries for
MechnicaliiSenvicess asec eee Vija L. Karklins Gonservatoni ik veer tO area esl eee Johannes H. Hyltoff Special! Projects Librarian) $2 js445-4)-.-4 Neal T. Turtell®* Acquisitions Service Gites Aa Ate aD PR eet RAs Mildred D. Raitt Gift and Exchange Librarian ........... Sharon H. Sweeting Order) Librarian Mae seo eee ee William B. Neff Serials) Librarian’) Sietesw.dasanstee ose antares Robert W. Hull Cataloguing Services (1 GICs ane les a TAD AY eC MOU V A eae NEE OT ata Mary Jane H. Linn Catalogtiers:: (isn en cere serene aie Angeline D. Ashford
Charles H. King Helen S. Nordberg Frances W. Penfold Margaret A. Sealor Bertha S. Sohn
Processing Services GPE ES See Ry ue AN IO EAR arta et Ce LL Mary J. Pierce
%3 Appointed October 2, 1977.
516 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 526>>>

Bibliographic Support Services CIA? cies: Sts RIERA AS Ee RMS EO oe nO Assistant Director of Libraries for Institution Services Assistant to the Assistant Director of Libraries for Institution Services
©, 6 (eels elle, «ee « ele: ae ss
Access Services “ICS? = od AEE Se enone ee Assistant Chief Bibliographer for the History of Science
and Technology
=u cele) sfs7-e)\e), 0). 0)e,16 (eel micwe) © Je) eke) e
Bureau Libraries Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies Librarian Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design Librarian Freer Gallery of Art Librarian Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Librarian Museum Reference Center Librarian .... National Air and Space Museum Librarian
wife uiet@telialeile lale ole 0/0, «6016
National Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait Gallery Librarian ... Reference Librarian National Museum of History and Technology Librarian Reference Librarian Reference Librarian Rare Book Librarian National Museum of Natural History Librarian Anthropology Branch Librarian Botany Branch Librarian National Zoological Park Librarian Reference Librarian Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Librarian Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory Librarian Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Librarian
ule’ |aliei's]'s)\s! (ele? 1a pot see (ete) (elite
ee) aat ee, elfe) s('¢ «| 02 0.6
ms l© mele) elle
ew DSO Chee Curent)
Bielleleiiefelmia'rele! «jie! wileiehetw © «| s)s)\0\:e) 0) =, -«
Ce |
Victoria Avera Jean C. Smith
Susan V. Mackler™
Jack F. Marquardt Amy E. Levin
Jack S. Goodwin
Mary Clare Gray
Robert C. Kaufmann Priscilla B. Smith
Anna M. Brooke Rhoda Ratner”
Catherine D. Scott Dominick A. Pisano
William B. Walker Katharine Ratzenberger
Frank A. Pietropaoli Charles G. Berger Barbara F. Veloz Mary Rosenfeld”
Sylvia J. Churgin Janette K. Saquet Ruth F. Schallert
Mary Clare Gray Diane S. Cunningham™ Joyce M. Rey
Mary Clare Gray
Alcira Mejia
DE CEO Kes 2 re store te beige ais International Program Officer .......... Public Affairs Officer Education Coordinator
«a 16) 6) @),6).¢/ 6, © 6's (© 6) @; 6) 0
* Appointed January 23, 1978. * Appointed August 27, 1978.
Dennis Gould Eileen Rose Eileen Harakal Marjorie Share
% Appointed February 26, 1978. 57 Resigned May 6, 1978.
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 517

<<<Page: 527>>>

Administrative Staff
Administrative! ©fficen! (sy qeri-jae cy cietl=toret Antonio Diez Repistrang eect crite vepreusis eo oreloiete eichsreieis Emily Dyer Assistant) Registrarse. 2) clon) eee Sally Slater
Mary Lou Cocker VN(alolo} bb gaz} qlled areas uduy Bo OBIS Oaks coro O DG Marie-Claire Jean Administrative! Glerka s.y57)c-ciaient-youesenieie Michele Newman Reso oo sdoodéccpuudoaucuocoodt Marie-Marthe Goodwin General Exhibitions Program Programy Oicery cirri ice eer rs Anne Gossett Exhibitions Coordinators .............. Quinton Hallett
Regina Lipsky
American Studies Program American Studies/Publications
(Goroidshiaeyiepveeraaouns on eo Moss ceo ss Andrea Stevens Exhibitions Goordinator =5.. 7-0... -.Nancy Davis Science Exhibitions Coordinators ....... Deborah Dawson
Martha Cappelletti
Assistant Secretary ................05: Julian T. Euell EXe CULVER ASSIStantine ee cect Vincent L. MacDonnell Administrative Officer) saaererenccsieie Jewell S. Dulaney
Director secession eo aes John R. Kinard Admuinistrativer Officers] eerie ca Audrey Archer Supervisory Program Manager
(Education)) (Bee. See CR tena Zora Martin-Felton Program Manager (Outreach) .......... Vacant FIStORaAMt tee elcrsee alae case ett ees creme Louise Daniel Hutchinson Exhibits Program Manager ............ Vacant Visual Information Specialist .......... Larry E. Thomas Supervisory Exhibits Specialist ......... James E. Mayo
Director 2.) M368 oo te ie ieee James R. Morris Agengierae IDI soococneaspacdu0ccse Saul Baran® Adiministratives Oficenmaer nme mence renin Ernestine A. Potter Director, Jazz and American Culture
Programs, ti).ccisGia rte pire aee oiae Goer Martin Williams Production Associate nner areca Peggy Martin
Coordinator, Jazz Oral History Program J. R. Taylor Culture Historian, African Diaspora
PROS TAMU sacl Miler ee eusie Mienael orensebade) ats Bernice Johnson Reagon Director, Museum Programs .......... Shirley Cherkasky ihechnicallGoordinatonseseeer meats Harold A. Closter Coordinator of Children’s Programs .... Susan Price Director, Education Services ........... Cynthia Hightower Manrketines Goordinatormer cee rah Sally Roffman
88 Retired February 28, 1978.
518 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 528>>>

Production Coordinator Public Affairs Officer
Sjjehe).s\e..0'/w\ ‘se ye) ogee e) @
Brock Holmes” Manuel Melendez
Education Program Coordinator ........ Assistant Education Coordinator Education Specialist Writer/Editor
e) 6:0! © ecu w/e) 0) .=| se] @ 6) © 16) 6 © ©1858) 8\e)s) ©
David W. Estabrook Selma A. Searles
Ann P. Bay
Thomas E. Lowderbaugh
JIS LEITE soe | aoe AG ee Deputy Director for Administration and
Publications Deputy Director for Programs “DOSE ET Se eee
oo 6 = 6 es Bis e © 6 e's s 6 ele ee see
Wilton S. Dillon
Dorothy Richardson Carla M. Borden Barrick W. Groom
LUGE EITI" 45 Seve ne pee Senior Telecommunications Specialist .. Telecommunications Specialist Radio Production Specialist ............ Production Goordinators ...............
® er eje 6 06 «6
Nazaret Cherkezian William C. Grayson Paul B. Johnson
Ann M. Carroll Lawrence E. Kline, Jr. Jean B. Quinnette
DRCCLORM IETS cscs cre cio cwlaisioias 4a eees Secretary to the Director DepiiivaDinectOr isk oieiace 2 cafe ce cis Sle aievs 6 Administrative Officer Administrative Assistant Managing Editor, General Publications .. Managing Editor, Series ...........>-.Production Controller PLOUGH OMPASSIStANt « .ciscc sls <6 s0 6s oss Series Production Manager ............ Writer/Editor SeMOMEGILODM essere sae lie aS ees Editors:
Mary Frances Bell Joan B. Horn Louise J. Heskett John Korytowski EdutonialyAssistant: eee ce tes cae OHIO EMINESIOMEL 2s. . 5 <0 02.0 6 o's 0,010)s10' RANE SMe ae yes ahs) sks, 2's sie, racic ww Se
=e! is] e,\s ‘so ome! «6 8 6 6
«ce je 0, ©/\@ 0.6 © \s0 0s
ele (ulsile’ «isis (eee 0)le7e'e ie: ©
eo) 0) «Lele) es) 's)/s)'s)/s)(s)\e|6 [© «| 0, |=).6 5 0a ete
Distribution Manager Publications Assistant Publications Technician Distribution Facilities Specialist ........ Publications Clerks: Eleanor R. Dixie Brenda Green
FO) COLO Sa CCT
% Resigned September 23, 1978. “ Retired April 28, 1978. “ Retired August 8, 1978.
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 519
Edward F. Rivinus Ruby Hamblen Felix C. Lowe Georgianna Hahn Bessie J. DeBeck Maureen R. Jacoby Albert L. Ruffin, Jr. Lawrence J. Long Alan Burchell Charles L. Shaffer® Hope Pantell Nancy L. Powars*
Barbara Spann
Ruth Spiegel
Judith F. Wilder Stephen Kraft Natalie Bigelow Elizabeth Sur Frederick H. MacVicar Theresa F. Hostettler Rosa E. Maness Frank Mathis
Sarah King
Florence R. Morgan

<<<Page: 529>>>

Director eee erro Sterne James K. Page, Jr. Senior Editor wicyenurs seat atclhe Susie sh cicieh a py aRtacals Russell Bourne Business: Managerie sociale ais oerertsiere aise Thomas A. Hoffman Marketing (Consultant ele eee eishoras William H. Kelty
Editor and Publisher .................. Edward K. Thompson
Executive Editorsija keira em ea ee aie Ralph Backlund Donald B. Moser
Members, Board of Editors ............ Grayce P. Northcross
Edwards Park Bennett Schiff
Paul Trachtman John P. Wiley, Jr. Richard L. Williams
Associate Publisher @.-s4-2 oon oe eeeoe : Joseph J. Bonsignore Advertising Directors perce eo enee: Thomas H. Black Circulation-Promotion Director ........ Anne Keating PicturenAssociatey metus spam vier olaletensiare le Caroline Despard Productions scrlem atuscr cule re oreres cu syaisiens Nannie Shanahan Businessit. Ain nxn antrongicenscrceseaeesye aac Carey O. Randall
Directors 45 sng rs ial ner eter ere Mary Grace Potter Deputy, Information Services .......... Carolyn Clampitt Program Manager, Independent
Volunteer Placement Service ......... Sally Covel Manager, Public Inquiry Mail .......... Ann Perper Office, Manager Visti eines tae rolaysln csr es Blenda G. Livsey Assistant Program Coordinator,
Wreekendsitis.cincat cutsareertieunct a crane Jennifer Williams Rrogrambpeditonene eae eree errs Maria Heasly Building Goordinatorsoans scien) Gilmer Van Poole
Gretchen Latimer Gail Dalmat
Director see ete ated: seein lew site James McK. Symington
Deputy;(Director .2 ysis weaeroeuloesene E. Jeffrey Stann Associate Development Officer ......... Arthur W. Gardner Research, Associate of. cicis ssiecs crore scien Martha McLure
Director! 2.0) oe Aaah ole yale lyr ay Robert H. Angle Regional Events
Programme Manacenaeeererncrcin ier tit Charlene James ProgramvAssistantimmer rie eiseetetelike Amy Kotkin
520 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 530>>>

Contributing Membership
Broeeam (Goordinator .). «5. ..,< 2.060600 Jessie Brinkley
Selected Studies
Broeramie Manager (hiya feye sls eifolsis @'<\0'she ale Nancy Starr
Travel Program
USS VCE UE Es) ioe er Jacqueline Austin
Depaty Travel Manager ...: 2.3.25. ...0. Prudence Clendenning
ProcrammCoordinatOrs: 22.6. 66: <2 0Barbara Schneider Janet Varn
Foreign Study Tours C2 PELE EU a oa Se ase eee Christopher Tunnard PPMIRPRAES EDA EOE cn a io feo is spsie a.a8 Ws 6 oo 6 Bliss Schumann
_ CEE? a dR eee Janet W. Solinger Assistant Director for Administration .. W. Darryl Hansen Assistant Director for Programming ... Michael C. Alin Broeram, (Coordinators ......-2.2.--s+% Paul J. Edelson Edward P. Gallagher Moya B. King Christine Parker Associate Program Coordinators ....... Roberta G. Lederer James Novak Gonsiultant, studio Arts... é2.0% 5-006 Andy Leon Harney Membership Coordinator .............. Jeanne B. George MGIC CLOTS eet 2) ications oe 6 slese ice ges Margaret V. Lee Public Information Specialist .......... Helen A. Marvel Assistant Public Information Specialist .. Michael L. Roney Registrar, Adult Courses .............. Xenia Sorokin Arnelle Registrar, Special Events, Trips and TCI.” ho Be Rn OES OE ene ne eaters Nuzhat Sultan-Khan Woeluntecr:Goordinator ~...-..........% Elinor Emlet ADMINISTRATION SSIStAME SECKCLALY o..0 5s. cece set John F. Jameson Parectar,,Agenda Office’). 60. a. se ee Robert L. Farrell Director, Management Analysis Office .. Ann S. Campbell
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity .. Will Douglas, Jr. Director, Office of Personnel PIMA ISITAMON |, 2! = o.5 seis os 6x oe aa <i Oe Howard Toy
PE ASIAEER Ee ois (SSAA NMS S's, ie mae o's T. Ames Wheeler PSSSEANT OL RCASUTED. oto 5 5 5 oss jejs < ose. 0's Christian C. Hohenlohe Assistant to the Treasurer ............... John R. Clarke EMMAnctal Analyse mene Gack ee ce a eee Frances C. Rooney Director, Office of Programming and
(BV5(3 re) CMMs te ne a eae 9 | Jon E. Yellin SEP EE MATIANISE 2 coe haiacle these aoe Paes Ohlen J. Boyd Director, Accounting Office ............ Allen S. Goff Assistant Director, Accounting Services . William B. Henegan
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 521

<<<Page: 531>>>

Assistant Director, Financial Systems .. John P. Howser Director, Grants and Insurance
Administration Division ............ Phillip H. Babcock Director, Investment Accounting Division Ernest A. Berger Director, Business Management Office .. Richard Griesel Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops ... James J. Chmelik Director, Belmont Conference Center ... Mary B. Force
Marketing Manager, Mail Order Division Virginia A. Fleischman Fulfillment Manager, Mail Order Division Don Press
General Counsel ...................45Peter G. Powers Associate General Counsel ............ Alan D. Ullberg Assistant General Counsels ............ George S. Robinson
Suzanne D. Murphy Marie C. Malaro Robert A. Dierker James I. Wilson John W. Lang III
Directors nee ie ie keris Richard L. Ault Administrative Officer we sera eal: Mary Anne Sedillo Contracting Officer, Contracts Office .... Elbridge O. Hurlbut Director, Office of Computer Services ... Stanley A. Kovy Director, Office of Protection Services .. Robert B. Burke, Jr. Ghief, Travel Services Office .........:. Ann H. Krafthofer Director, Office of Plant Services ....... Kenneth E. Shaw Director, Office of Facilities Planning and
Engineering” Services) ees cne cee.) ei Phillip K. Reiss Director, Office of Printing and
Rhotographic) Services saccade James H. Wallace, Jr. Director, Office of Supply Services ..... Harry P. Barton
Director, International Exchange Service John E. Estes
Director ings isn sols. ee OES James H. Billington Deputy Director neem eee cele eee George R. Packard Editorii er tie tartar yeaah aveusrcie tole ace Peter Braestrup IXSSOClat eH GitOne eee eee Francis B. Sayre, Jr. IES layer Gatbalun ie ermam ent alse ee Aree DRUMMER Zdenik V. David Publications: Oficenmmnene ee eee Elizabeth G. Dixon Assistant Director for Administration .. William M. Dunn Fellowship Specialist amare erin sei Alfred Runte Assistant Director for Fellowship
SCleCHON: sae een eee Oar aLn Michael J. Lacey Secretary, Latin American Program ..... Abraham F. Lowenthal Special Assistant to the Director ....... George Liston Seay Secretary, Kennan Institute, and
NssistantmDinectormmanneemen ore S. Frederick Starr Executive Assistant to the Director ..... Mernie-Wright Weathers Secretary, International Security Studies
Pro era Mn serecwsatneewsceiagereccietsieae ie eosin Samuel F. Wells, Jr.
522 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 532>>>

Honorary. Chairmen. s,..: oi: o.s06 sie s.3 Mrs. Jimmy Carter Mrs. Gerald R. Ford Mrs. Richard M. Nixon Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson Mrs. Aristotle Onassis Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower
RORRAREMRAM OL (oor 2)s sisls. 5.5, ore Sia ee stousldea 6 4 os Roger L. Stevens WHCEMG@NAITINIEM feycicic serie ciniociem emis etre Charles H. Percy Henry Strong SEGRE LAG YM tr irae oie of oe Shela ok 5 © Sauetteteues Frank Ikard PESENGEAMESECECTOLTY 550.6: oc oan oe 3 Charlotte Woolard LSS. SUETTEE J aie SR W. Jarvis Moody INGSIGtant MTeASUTELs 6. a. tie sc ee es: James F. Rogers
William H. Ryland Henry Strong
Genera@ounselssss ose nce es feces Harry C. McPherson, Jr. Associate Counsell 25.5.5 ac macnicee sess William W. Becker Executive Director of Performing Arts .. Martin Feinstein General Manager of Theaters .......... Alexander Morr
Parcetor of Operations 3... ...0....%: Thomas R. Kendrick
Ghairmaniof the Board) ;.:...<. «2c/s00. 2+. Mrs. Robert S. McNamara National Executive Director ............ Ruth Graves Deputy National Director .!.:..'.2. 0.6% Arnold Baker Director of Resource Coordination and
DUPPOGESCEVIGES. 6 «iS -ehe nice eile eae on Barbara Atkinson Director of Field Services .............. Carolyn Gunn
Director, Finance and Program Contracts Christina Mead Resource Coordinator and Support Senvicesi@ ices cit:s) ss 2 ))55 see Sei diocese Ryszard Obuchowicz Regional Program Coordinators ........ Don Walther Barbara Melnicove Jessie Lacy Propram) Specialists 2... 622 sehen ces os Leslie Dery Curtis Brown Denise Bulluck Laura Baker Mary Erkson Alex Intermaggio
Bucector of ‘Publications . 0... 2). .:..6 ss Kristine Wilcox supeconinact, Manager 2): 4. s.)2 5.6 <<:26%<\e Victoria Garfink binance Manager . 2524.5... ls. eels 3 Donna Wagley Assistant Finance Manager ............ John Crance Subcontract Control Specialist ......... Jean Merriweather Invoice Gontrol Specialist! 5. 5.55 +s <1 Christine Moore Resource Coordination Manager ....... Maxine Cohen Materials/Supply Manager ............ Calvin McFadden Reception/Communication Control ..... Joann Campbell Oiiice Worker. 122 c: jas Saatio sk «bias Michael Thomas Administrative Assistant .............. Beverly Briscoe Resource and Research Coordinator .... Rosemary Zibart
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 523

<<<Page: 533>>>

Information)/Specialist eee {eee ae Elizabeth Fairchild
SpecialsAssistamt es Myer e sre sie laneCoasts © Roxanne Iszard Executivey Secretanyan aero emia ce Dorothy Jones Finance Secretary a ee eiscieicete Vickie Lewis Seeretariese rs inners Meiers ey ter: Clydis Evans Bobbi Nash
Angela Brooks
Lawarne Coffer
Dorothy Deeter Data Retrieval Specialist .............. Ron Robinson
Bresidenty Goce in ites acer eeieinaaiens David F. Hersey Vice President, Scientific Affairs Division Donald A. Elliott Acting Vice President, Natural Sciences
and Engineering Division ............ Donald A. Elliott Vice President, Data Processing Division Martin Snyderman Special Assistant to the President and
SPTeASUTe rin Reo Ae Ce at USN ONE Thomas P. Bold, Jr. Assistant Treasurer and Secretary ...... Evelyn M. Roll ManrketingsManagen cnacri mcrae eer Janet D. Goldstein
CURRENT CANCER RESEARCH PROJECT ANALYSIS CENTER DIRE GEOR APOE ha) ae AD RUTAS A Maga Donald A. Elliott DED EEY Carrot anise eas arewnne eae a, Seat Nees Lily Ayad
MEDICAL, BEHAVIORAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCES DIVISION Director: ae dejatanuieeis aelaeisiha cee clare Donald A. Elliott BDepurtygy ire ate (ee ean eR AN AUN RR ARC Charlotte M. Damron Chief, Medical Sciences Branch ........ Charlotte M. Damron Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch ...... Rhoda Goldman Ghief SocialsSciences/Branchy ase Ann Riordan
NATURAL SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING DIVISION Acting. Directory. kya dota rlcenonrs alee Donald A. Elliott | Deyo) bh Ata UPn Re wy ATLLII ARCS: Sanya ar LAN ot eam Samuel Liebman ChiefGhemistry¢branchweeeneeeee cies Samuel Liebman Chief, Agricultural Sciences Branch .... William T. Carlson Chief, Biological Sciences Branch ....... James R. Wheatley, Jr.
Chief, Materials and Engineering Branch William H. Payne Chief, Physics, Mathematics and
Electronics Branchieeerea ener oo cee Robert Summers
Acting Chief, Earth Sciences Branch .... Chalmer G. Dunbar DATA PROCESSING DIVISION
Director iis). 4. ec me eee aim athe Martin Snyderman Dee oly ais is ROR A Ea cote letaiattedon she Bernard L. Hunt Manager, Systems Development Branch ._ Bernard L. Hunt Manager, Input Services Branch ........ Jack Devore Manager, Programming and Reports
Services Branch os secon etal: Robert A. Kline Manager, Computer Operations Branch ._ Paul Gallucci
524 / Smithsonian Year 1978

<<<Page: 534>>>

BRANES ES a6 dh 5, s Rs ke hay ewe. Ws Paul Mellon TED. Eig St 6 (2 1 John Hay Whitney ID RROD. 2 LAYS ee RCI a ee Aare J. Carter Brown AS SISEAN EMM ITECCOL, 5... ee oleae s baleen Charles P. Parkhurst TIBET, OS 6 Reno OIE PRO eI aio spree Robert C. Goetz PNSROMUSETATOD Go eins oe chews ews Joseph G. English Secretary and General Counsel ........ Robert Amory, Jr. Staff Assistant to the Director, Music ....... Richard Bales Assistant to the Director, Public
AIMEO TMA OM yc iewcle oe Biseere 2 eis) dlaveidove mle aos Katherine Warwick Assistant to the Director, Special Events Carol M. Fox Piannine) Gonsultant: 0.42 .si0c05onssee «2 David W. Scott Ganstruction Manager .......2-60055+ Hurley F. Offenbacher Curator of American Painting ......... John H. Wilmerding lrotamletonaniatty 2. sce.0 access cuavs ecstvs.evsis J. M. Edelstein Ghichebadcation® (i sccscen sie alias eutien Margaret I. Bouton Head, Extension Program Development . Joseph J. Reis Head, Art Information Service ......... Elise V. H. Ferber [ECHO . oo de.6 SO eRe CIS ora Theodore S. Amussen Chief, Photographic Laboratory ........ William J. Sumits Curator of Photographic Archives ..... Ruth Rowe Philbrick SentonsG@onservatOn jascccs cen csswioe see Victor C. B. Covey Head, Exhibitions and Loans .......... Jack C. Spinx Head, Department of Design and
ligngealllanionw’ Sloe Gemeente Oeomiaerone Gaillard F. Ravenel IECISthAl ea cyecaiiaic.e Sic ih Jas Weis nua owe Peter Davidock, Jr. Curator of Early Italian and Tuscan
ERIE See eye YS hem laa a 'ny 6, a ¢ licens She ahs David A. Brown CGunatomolGraphictArts. .-5.600-6 0+ <6 Andrew C. Robison, Jr. Gurater of French Painting .........-.. David E. Rust Cuntteriot Sculpture ... 2... 265.060.5005 Douglas Lewis, Jr. Curator of Twentieth-Century Art ..... E. A. Carmean, Jr. Curator of Northern and Later Italian
Re MNRE MARCIE cA = a) i or cides ai) wen Aol 64 a Sheldon Grossman Curator of Northern European Painting . John O. Hand Gavatar of Dutch Painting ...........<.Arthur K. Wheelock Curator of Spanish Painting ........... Anna Voris ASSistantmlineasurenee eee eiatane James W. Woodard Assistant Administrator... .. 0055-3. George W. Riggs Assistant General Counsel ............ Elizabeth A. Croog AScibtant SPCLCLATY | @ = 5.5.).<,5 22 = ois spe Kathryn K. Bartfield RETSOniie OHICens ote iss ae reis ek wasn slvelets Jeremiah J. Barrett
Appendix 10. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 525

<<<Page: 535>>>



<<<Page: 536>>>

Ate Nib, Atiaiet a Me att Ta hy Naan hae Wok ah iy i LP f { iwi We AE ‘ te MAT, ar ic ee ae Aa a
aus Mi a
) Pa nS Gale
ra mM :

<<<Page: 537>>>



<<<Page: 538>>>

Loans

<<<Page: 539>>>

abe ie ‘ VE AT yh A

<<<Page: 540>>>

oa 4 Oe a Gh G | a a: ; Wie ee & he “gaa aad Oa@ "se ne +46 | atte tattle oat eed tetera ee a a SOF Se EWE WR Ei
bctatatatats! wtatyts ete 1 4 a Ge ag ye ee eek eRe RS ep 4 tls MAAS EASE ES 8a Me or) Af eerie rnee ‘ tana a" atgtet 44400080200 Cae CS
& a i 4 OW 4 4 “ ? Seat fete etree th stare
ye we tae ah ea eta ate atee iA
bate ata! keh) i ¢ Ra Cet aee 4 gg (ea ada a a4 ed eA Vewka ee bik is Re@as s a i é x A. a f ‘. (6 ee 9 a 4 1 ‘4 Le ad e's i “9 a esse A teh
he ot, cate ‘é ao os if ‘e ae + ‘€ fe < € ¢ < € if sete eee a a
La ®
14 “t f% it, « 7) es t s 4 “¢ «4% “¢ vee 4 ‘c ea [ “ Ee ee . ata’ catalase! tye te EG ee |
jaara ee yn WANN i « eG eee! a ee ate . Re err c oe wee kD) Aa ed ee UA eA we ee a BAL 8 CA
ee a ee ae C888, ates 4
ia 6 4 @ “< £ Le * 4 AA ‘. a ste’ ete tists *¢ fi € a wlan feet ‘€ t ¢ ate SM 8 Ee Se Se OH Re 4 a, eo § Led a oe ge t {. “A As “gt
pean ae eg aa
(re 4 “y ty &
{ a i
sf \ fo sc it is Lf x He
[8 6 ak et EN ee ae i. ee “i au J CA, at
he eg eg ££ t ee t ew ; ms = di 5 = _ a oo a 4 oad
4 a: ae ae ps Cae ge gtr ix: ¢ cH 7 F “i +f A Mm SS oo = dy
Pag coe *) S4 + dee a= SA
ah Rem i ee 3 a ia
oh BS,
Ss "ape . a +o 4 oe i, fe ae fa a y lag @t @ & 8 2 ee es
Kes 23
ssc)
Petey
os . Pe es SR eh a E 5. 1S tort = a SS
Suds Fe, Ris oe “ae + ras | ee
od : a a = = ee Ae Re SS. “Ge “a oo f ow mh BA 4B — .) s es Fy "te Ee os ; ais Ce ; +a:
ex ie
eo ey Rk ¢ A 8 ot Bl oa Ml “a Oe 5 a. Ei bY og ad ay F sy mi ee se | ot, Tae ee or: ee ne ais <=, -* 7 pg i 4 4 2 Bk 8 8 oa ee ee ee a cs gg a: ig : yi FS) « =a ae oes ; +2, # x a ar. ry *

<<<Page: 541>>>



<<<Page: 542>>>



<<<Page: 543>>>



<<<Page: 544>>>

a Se ee