<<<Page: 1>>>

bead
na \

<<<Page: 2>>>

Me se Set oe ata oS .

<<<Page: 3>>>

WS 3 YE Ze 338 GS 2 SNE S32 x82 HZ 2 WS 3 YK EW 3] 3 ve N m\ So ‘WE WSs Uf ll. = WES Yy E ways = SS Neat SAN HES 1 NS \S SNe m7 = S St Ss INOSASS 5 RNS = Wasi’) Ss NN 5’ S Zz 7) Bs ae = YdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS” S31uvual7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA Wi
Saluvudglt INSTITUTION INSTITUTION
Sa1uvudly Wy, Yj ies % fa* 7
Yadi1_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
NVINOSHLINS S3iIuVYEIT_ LI BRARIES
Be |S < < E = z
by % NX = Zz 4 Lt fe = 4 tf fy =
Y o & Si Fs ° Tap ates ‘My ro) ae hy, ro)
p ESL EQ ES EOF PWwyiGg ? = . 2& = > G = > Ee = 7?) Se ra w re : n PA, 22) -
UTION | NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS _LIBRARI ES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIN a = Ss a z G Fa Hf > Re : 4 ONE Z = ip * : EN < = \\ ee ra. <iVYtpe < 3 WSS cc SF BW cc = a YZ, =| e S WN 2 5 NX ° a QPS 3 a 5 . a Z a a 2 a 2 = 4
UgI1 LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN” INSTITUTION NOILNJILSNITNVINOSHLINS |S31UVYSI1 LIBRARIES” SMITHSONIZ = oS Pose ie s) owe fo) —_ ro) iy. a = GY, ™ = 2 E a = 2 = pr Yy;, 2 > a = a = ty > = Yj = > i > = G fi/ 2 = GF KA > ra rae E 2 = UF! fe mi or”. m @ m ma Grae wn = wn = wn = wn =
gong NOLERLTULSN I: NVINOSHLINS SAVEVE ETI LIBRARIES | _ INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHIIV = < = ) =" = 14% =
\ 2 YYy2 3 5 We 2 \y i B
\ a a g 2B NN 2 ae SS 2 bb
\S ea aa Zz, E Nor2z E AS 2.474
ae Ss = 5 =. te = oS 2 7) va 7) Fa a ao =
‘YUd!i] LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3JIYVYE!IT LIBRARIES
UTION NOILNLILSNI S3luYvVeYsIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIW
SatUVUSIT LIBRARIES
INSTITUTION INSTITUTION Salyvuat INSTITUTION
Yall LIBRARIES
NVINOSHLINS S3tuYVUaiT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLINS S31YVUdIT
». saiuvugiq LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIA
SY é NK S_ SMITHSONIAN
VYdI1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
wn = = = w — a) = SYS 2 W = WwW = _ \ WN n — 7 << — a 4 ASN a noe ti Zo 4 cc 4 < a INAS = av ip = < = a XY = w Gy = a = a 2 °N 5 a “GPS 5% © S | 4 z a = = 2 = 2 = Sie CUBRARTES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS (S31 dvd alt LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA = rc > pa Ja (e) ty DO NOD o Sul = (e) “Gli = y fo) BY Pr) 2 MD 2 Gy 2 ZOD) = G2 Ye EGM2 Ge ~ At) ea ES \ > fHG. > (|= =A ae ey By i RRR 2 PAVE FAME EY

<<<Page: 4>>>

Yer» —s! tose | PEGE =m} GY pion Fain, ~~ NN 5 = 7? 7 b fe fi NN SG fi SAY SY OC re) Vip fs fe) Hy; x Y fo) NYY 2 a 2/9" EE NEY 2 | a ee Ea z we ION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI f
NVINOSHLINWS saluvugin LIBRARIES SMITHSOf
Ai7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
SJIYVYUStT INSTITUTION
Saluvygit INSTITUTION INSTITUTION
NVINOSHLINS S3tLYVUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSOP
SMITHSONIAN us ge
Gj NVINOSHLIWS
aii,
LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILQLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS saiuvugi
RARIES ve
ION_ NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S3SI1Y¥VYdIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
i7 LEBRARIES
INSTITUTION saluvugiy LIB saruvuai saluvug INSTITUTION
= a 2 <— wn z w F z . < = < aa < = Wh: < BZ =| x at a Y z y. 5 Z AN 7 2 Y% 5 Ge g 2 NY B 2 8 i 2 ; = 2 z = RN \S <5 Zz 1) = ee a es 5 = es ION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYAIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS o Ps _ wo _ w ‘~ 2 g = G : & E _ a =a pe eae —_ Zz = < 4 < es! < es \ ce = ce S aw S cc = NO a = e re) pa ° ee fe) “SY 24 a) 2 os = am 2 J17 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS S3IYVHEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN =z —_ e = =z ~ re) = rs) ra} ~ re} o — Piss] pa = wo — 2 = 2 5 = x 5 > Es 5 = = = i = A = 5 F = z Hs = a z 2 o z ION NOILNLILSNI S3IYVYGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN NOILALILSN! NVINOSHLIWS
NVINOSHLINS S3tYVvuyslt
LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIAWS SMITHSONIAN 2 mA z a 2 & 3 = mf « _ ws .S <a om r wt ef we. a fe =a NSE az = «. 1 LZ = * 4 ce SF WER = en és Ky S a” cS te S AY Ps c a Ugg = 2 S ca 5 Sa 5 a GF me car i ay a ae | ne em) ION _NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS “S31 dvVudIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION _ NOILALILSNI _NVINOSHLINS Si Gm GF ". 2) VON pa Kegivs 2° Vg y, EL, ° <ul ow : ES 2 Noe = GAR 2 Gem = GZ 2 GAM = Gem ® \ov

<<<Page: 5>>>

sh) ita? ut coAk Py

<<<Page: 6>>>

Smithsonian Year 1987 Supplement
Chronology and Appendixes
Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

Smithsonian Year 1987 Supplement
Chronology and Appendixes
Smithsonian [nstitution Press Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 9>>>

5% «coursed: Be AL.

<<<Page: 10>>>

Contents
Chronology 5
Appendix r. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1987 42
Appendix 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1986, through September 30, 1987 61
Appendix 3. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in Fiscal Year 1987 64
Appendix 4. | Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1987 66
Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1987 138
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1987 150
Appendix 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1987 255
Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1987 307
Appendix 9. Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1987 387
Note. The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual appendixes is not alphabetical but rather follows the organization of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.
The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically reproduced from typescript provided by the bureaus and offices.

<<<Page: 11>>>

Smithsonian Institution
Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Committee, and the Secretary Office of the Secretary Office of the Under Secretary Office of Audits and Investigations Office of the General Counsel Research Joseph Henry Papers National Zoological Park Office of American Studies Office of Fellowships and Grants Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Smithsonian Environmental Research Center Smithsonian Institution Archives Smithsonian Institution Libraries Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Museums Anacostia Museum Archives of American Art Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery of Art Conservation Analytical Laboratory Cooper-Hewitt Museum Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden National Air and Space Museum National Museum of African Art National Museum of American Art National Museum of American History National Museum of Natural History / National Museum of Man National Portrait Gallery Office of Exhibits Central Office of Horticulture Office of Museum Programs
Office of the Registrar Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service Public Service National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive Educational Technologies National Science Resources Center Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience Office of Elementary and Secondary Education Office of Folklife Programs Office of Interdisciplinary Studies Office of Public Affairs Office of Telecommunications Smithsonian Institution Press Smithsonian Magazine Smithsonian World Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center Administration Administrative and Support Activities Financial Management Activities Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Smithsonian Internship Council Directorate of International Activities Membership and Development Office of Membership and Development James Smithson Society National Board of the Smithsonian Associates Smithsonian National Associate Program Smithsonian Resident Associate Program Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates Under Separate Boards of Trustees John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts National Gallery of Art Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

<<<Page: 12>>>

Smithsonian Year 1987 Chronology
The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events and milestones during the fiscal year 1986-1987.
October
Exhibition: "Russia, The Land, The People: Russian Painting, 1850-1910," an
exhibition of artworks from the collections of the State Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow,
and the State Russian Museum, Leningrad, opened at the Renwick Gallery. Organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, this exhibition marked the
first exchange stemming from the November 1985 cultural agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union.
October
Conservation: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute was named as a member of the newly installed board of Panama City’s Metropolitan Nature Park.
October
Office Move: The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service moved its offices from the Arts and Industries Building to the S. Dillon Ripley Center, located on the third level of the new museum complex. New facilities include the International Gallery and a spacious room for workshops.
October
Outreach: Dr. Joallyn Archambault joined the National Museum of Natural History’s Department of Anthropology as director of the museum’s new Native American Program, part of an interbureau activity developed with the National Museum of American History.
October
Publication: "A Space Odyssey," a wall calendar published by Universe Books, New York, featured astronomical images produced by Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics scientists using the HEAO-2 (Einstein) X-ray Satellite.
October 5
Milestone: The Dibner Library, Special Collections Branch of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, celebrated its tenth anniversary with "Nota Bene," an exhibition featuring twenty-nine rare annotated books on the history of science and technology. The opening was attended by the benefactor, Dr. Bern Dibner, and his wife, Barbara Druss Dibner.

<<<Page: 13>>>

October 6-10
Course: As part of its conservation training program, the Conservation Analytical Laboratory offered "Metallography of Ancient Metals," a specialist course taught by Dr. David Scott of the Institute of Archaeology, University of London.
October 10
Exhibits: Two aircraft representing the pioneer days of aviation were placed on display in the National Air and Space Museum’s Early Flight Gallery--the 1911 Ecker Flying Boat, a three-in-one aircraft equipped to take off from land or water, and the 1911 Caproni CA 9, Italy’s first passenger-carrying aircraft and its first massproduced military aircraft.
October 10-21
Workshop: Representatives of ten nations participated in the first international
workshop on the Management of the Green Iguana, held at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama. The workshop was organized by the Foundation Pro-Green Iguana, in conjunction with the University of Heredia (Costa Rica) and the United States World Wildlife Fund.
October 15
Special Event: As part of an ongoing effort to strengthen ties between museums and schools across the United States, the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education offered the first of three regional workshops. In all, more than fourteen hundred teachers attended the workshops in Jackson, Michigan; Waterloo, Iowa; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
October 15
Film Series: The first in a series of seven films from the Soviet Union premiered during an event organized by the Resident Associate Program. Guests at the opening night reception were Soviet Ambassador Yuri Dubinin and Elem Klimov, president of the Soviet Filmmakers Union.
October 18-19
Special Event: Nearly three hundred people attended the Sixth National Zoo Symposium for the Public. "Behind the Scenes: Animal Studies at the Zoo" presented a range of research projects conducted by zoo professionals at the park and in the field.
October 18-19
Symposium: Five hundred people attended the Archives of American Art symposium on visual arts in Southern California. The symposium attracted much media attention, and a local station of the Public Broadcasting Service expressed interest in producing a television series based on the symposium’s topic and in underwriting a symposium on visual arts in Northern California.

<<<Page: 14>>>

October 22-26
Special Event: Contributing members participated in a weekend program that featured visits to selected exhibitions with museum directors and curators.
November
Publication: The first issue of Rittenhouse: The Quarterly Journal of the American Scientific Instrument Enterprise was published by the Department of the History of Science and Technology at the National Museum of American History.
November
Publication: Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman by Dr. Stanwyn G.
Shetler, assistant director for programs at the National Museum of Natural History,
was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press and Viking Penguin Books, New York. The book was produced for the museum’s 1987 exhibition of Bateman’s works.
November
Milestone: Researchers at the Tropical Biology Library at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute gained on-line access to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries catalogue in Washington, D.C.
November
Residencies: The semiannual, ten-day residency session of the Kellogg program for senior-level museum professionals was held at the Smithsonian. Coordinated by the the Office of Museum Programs, the residencies provide opportunities for participants from around the nation to focus on issues relating to museums as educational resources in communities.
November
International Project: The thirty-day Project on Museum Management began with a seminar at the Smithsonian. Designed for foreign museum professionals and organized by the Office of Museum Programs and U.S. Information Agency, programs were held in five cities.
November 1
Concert Series: The 20th-Century Consort gave the first of four concerts in its 198687 season at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
November 2
Benefit Premiere: The Washington premiere of The Mission, sponsored by the Resident Associate Program, was held in the National Museum of Natural History. The event, which included a reception at the Organization of American States Building, benefited the Resident Associate Program’s various Outreach activities.

<<<Page: 15>>>

November 3
Obituary: Smithsonian physical anthropologist J. Lawrence Angel, 71, died in Washington, D.C. During his career, Angel studied skeletal remains at key archaeological sites in Cyprus, Turkey, and the United States. He also assisted
federal and local law enforcement agencies in identifying the skeletal remains of more than five hundred people, many of them murder victims.
November 3-5
Workshop: The Office of Public Affairs organized and conducted a workshop for the Office of Museum Programs on "Getting the Word Out: Museum Public Relations." The workshop was attended by thirty public information specialists from as many museums in twenty-one states, Washington, D.C., and the Virgin Islands.
November 5
Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members of the Contributing Membership previewed "Berlin 1900-1933: Architecture and Design," an exhibition at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
November 5
Obituary: Cynthia Jaffee McCabe, 43, curator for exhibitions at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden suffered an apparent heart attack and died in Rio de Janeiro, where she was doing research on a proposed exhibition on contemporary Latin American art.
November 6
Special Event: Andrew, Nathaniel, Henriette, and Ann Wyeth attended the press screening of "The Wyeths: A Father And His Family," the season premiere of "Smithsonian World," at the New York headquarters of Metropolitan Life. The program was aired over the Public Broadcasting Service on November 19.
November 10-11
Exhibition: "Berlin 1900-1933: Architecture and Design" opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Organized by the museum, the exhibition was recreated in Berlin in Spring 1987 as part of the city’s 750th anniversary celebration. A symposium organized by the Museum and Internationales Design Zentrum in Berlin featured prominent American and German experts in design. In addition, the Cooper-Hewitt’s first bilingual publication, an exhibition catalogue of the same title, was subsequently produced.
November 13
Agreement: Smithsonian Secretary Adams and Nizar Hamdoon, the Ambassador of Iraq, signed a memorandum of understanding between the Institution and the Scientific Research Council of Iraq. The understanding provides the mechanism necessary to carry out exchanges in areas of mutual scientific interest.

<<<Page: 16>>>

November 16-17
Reception: Contributing Members residing in the Fort Worth, Texas, area were invited to a special reception following the National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program presentation, "The Golden Age of Song: American Jazz Favorites," by John Eaton. This and other similar receptions were initiated to more closely involve Contributing Members around the country with the Smithsonian.
November 17
Exhibition: "Recent Acquisitions, 1983-1986," at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, displayed major works by Jean Dubuffet, Anselm Kiefer, Claes Oldenburg, Frank Stella, and others.
November 17-20
Course: E. Benner Larsen, director of the Research Center at Legre, Denmark taught "Making High Quality Electroform Replicas of Museum Objects," a conservation training course organized by the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
November 19
Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired a daguerreotype of Jefferson Davis by an unidentified photographer. It is the earliest photographic likeness of Davis, taken on his arrival in Washington as a congressman.
November 20
Premiere: "State of the Universe" opened in the National Air and Space Museum’s Einstein Planetarium. The show takes viewers on a whirlwind tour of space, exploring current ideas about the past, present, and possible future of the universe. An exhibition of the same name went on display in the planetarium lobby.
November 21]
Exhibition: "Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revolution, 1790-1860" opened at the National Museum of American History. This permanent exhibition introduces some of the people, machines, new sources of power, and new ways of organizing work that were part of the nation’s transformation from an agricultural economy into an industrial power.
November 21
Exhibition: "Near Eastern Art" opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. Paintings and a wide variety of objects dating from the fifth century B.C. through the eighteenth century reflected the quality and diversity of the Freer’s collection of Near Eastern art.
November 21
New Chancellor: Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist was elected as the Smith-sonian’s sixteenth chancellor, succeeding retired Chief Justice Warren E. Burger.

<<<Page: 17>>>

December 1
New Position: Dr. Ned Rifkin, previously with the Corcoran Gallery of Art, was named to the newly created position of chief curator for exhibitions at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
December 5
Move: The National Museum of African Art began its move from its Capitol Hill location (318 A Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002) to its quarters in the Smithsonian’s new museum and education complex on the National Mall.
December 5-7
Milestone: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its fifteenth annual Christmas at the Smithsonian Weekend for Smithsonian Associates. A festive dinner and tree-trimming party in the Castle highlighted the weekend program.
December 8
Special Event: The National Science Resources Center (NSRC), established in 1985 by the Smithsonian Institution and the National Academy of Sciences, moved from its temporary quarters at the National Academy of Sciences to permanent facilities in the northeast wing of the Smithsonian’s Arts and Industries Building.
December 12
Special Event: The Smithsonian Women’s Committee held its fifteenth annual Christmas dinner dance in the National Museum of American History. The fund-raising event had a colonial American theme, and Chief Justice Warren Burger and Mrs. Burger were guests
of honor.
December 17
Name Change: The Office of Symposia and Seminars was redesignated the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, more accurately reflecting the office’s basic purpose of
bringing together specialists in the sciences and humanities to address questions demanding insight from a variety of sources.
December 18
Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired Eastman Johnson’s painting The Girl I Left Behind Me (ca. 1870-75). Purchase of this major work was made
possible by funds realized from the museum’s recent deaccessioning program and by a special Smithsonian grant.
December 19
Exhibition: The tenth annual "Trees of Christmas" exhibition opened at the National Museum of American History.

<<<Page: 18>>>

November 22
Closing: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center’s fifty-seven year-old laboratory in Rockville, Maryland, ceased operations. Originally part of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory, the Rockville facility was created by Smithsonian Secretary Charles G. Abbot to study the influence of sunlight on the growth and development of organisms. The laboratory is credited with many important contributions to the understanding of biological responses regulated by sunlight.
November 23
Special Events: The first of five "Sunday Afternoons at the National Zoo" was held. Designed to encourage people to visit the Zoo in the winter, programs were offered once a month from November to March.
November 25
Property Sale: The Institution sold the buildings and property that had been the home
of the National Museum of African Art. The Capitol Hill site was purchased for $2.25 million by National Association for Home Care. The funds were used to offset the cost of constructing the museum’s new home on the National Mall.
November 26
Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired a rare daguerreotype of Franklin Pierce. The daguerreotype is attributed to Albert Sands Southworth and Josiah Johnson Hawes, considered to be the masters of this medium.
December
Discovery: Radar observations of twelve near-Earth asteroids led a HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics astronomer and colleagues at other institutions to suggest that members of this special class of minor planets have extremely irregular, nonconvex shapes. The observations were made with the radio telescope at Arecibo, Puerto Rico.
December
Awards: Films and video productions by the Office of Telecommunications won six Golden Eagle awards from the Council on International Non-theatrical Events. The winning productions will represent the United States in competitions abroad. December
Workshop: An Office of Museum Programs workshop on "Collections Management and Care' was conducted in Trinidad by a team of three Smithsonian registrars and conservators.
December
Special Course: Eight students from Howard University attended a two-week course in tropical biology conducted at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama.

<<<Page: 19>>>

December 23
Acquisition: An important collection of 113 works of the 1930s and 1940s by American abstract artists was donated to the National Museum of American Art by Patricia and Phillip Frost of Miami Beach.
December 30
Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired 378 folk art objects of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries, a purchase and a major gift from Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr., whose holdings are acknowledged to be among the finest in private hands in the United States today.
December 30
Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired a painting of Rubens Peale by Rembrandt Peale.
December 30
Temporary Closing: The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum closed at its site at 2405 Martin Luther King, Jr., Ave., Southeast, Washington, D.C. The converted movie theater had been the museum’s home since its opening in 1967. The museum remained closed until May, when it reopened at its new site in Southeast Washington’s historic Fort Stanton Park and was redesignated the Anacostia Museum, reflecting the national and international recognition accorded the museum’s program on Afro-American history, art, and culture.
January
Conservation Program: From January through May 1987, an environmental education program was carried out in the San Blas Islands by the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Office of Education and Conservation. The program acquainted inhabitants of the archipelago with the institute’s work and described how the results of research
can be applied to daily activities and to conservation.
January
New Program: The Program in Hispanic American History was begun in the Department of Public Programs at the National Museum of American History. The program addresses critical themes of Hispanic American history, from colonial times to the contemporary struggles of Hispanics to find a place in American society.
January
Discovery: Two Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics astronomers reported convincing evidence that one class of young variable stars may be brightening due to material from surrounding disks falling onto their surfaces. The finding suggests that such disks, which are precursors of planetary systems, may be very common features of all young stars.

<<<Page: 20>>>

January
Reorganization: The Office of Safety Programs was reorganized and renamed the Office of Environmental Management and Safety. This reorganization recognized the dramatic increase in regulatory and safety concerns, the obligations associated with
environmental management and safety, and the continuing importance of this work inside and outside the Institution.
January
Film: From Reliable Sources, a half-hour film produced to support the fund-raising efforts of the Archives of American Art, was completed. Produced by the Office of Telecommunications, the film depicts the role of the Archives in documenting the history of American art.
January
Exhibition Video: "Field to Factory--1915 to 1940: The Urban North," a videotape created for the exhibition opening in February at the National Museum of American History, was completed by the Office of Telecommunications.
January 1
Exhibition: "77ME: Man of the Year" opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
January 9
Media Event: The Office of Public Affairs held a luncheon for media representatives to introduce the Smithsonian’s Cultural Education Committee, recently formed to help the Institution reach underrepresented audiences.
January 11-16
Seminars: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program held five seminars in Washington, D.C.: "Masters of Central Italian Art," "The Art of Scientific
Illustration," "American Antique Furniture," "Presidential Washington," and "Post-
World War II Aviation."
January 14
Special Event: James Smithson Society Members were invited to a lecture by Smithsonian Secretary Adams. The lecture, "Stability versus Resilience: Urbanites, Peasants, and Nomads in Mesopotamian History," was followed by a reception at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
January 16
Exhibition: "Charles Lang Freer: The Man and His Gallery" opened at the Freer Gallery
of Art. This small exhibition on the ground floor of the museum traced the development of the museum through photographs from the Freer Archives.

<<<Page: 21>>>

January 17
Exhibition: "Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman" opened at the National Museum of Natural History. This major retrospective featured more than 100 paintings by the Canadian artist, regarded as one of the world’s foremost wildlife artists. The exhibition drew more than 275,000 visitors during its four-month run and was a major factor in the museum’s record-breaking attendance in early 1987.
January 19
Special Event: To commemorate the birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., the Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service hosted a reception to introduce the newly formed Cultural Education Committee.
January 24
Exhibition: "Like and Unlike: Caricature Portraits by Henry Major and Herman Perlman" opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
January 30
Exhibition: "Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation Collection" opened at the National Museum of American Art. This major exhibition included 95 of the 174 paintings, sculptures, and drawings, from the 1920s to the present, given to the
museum in 1984 by the late Sara Roby.
February
Black History Month: Former New York Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm discussed "AfroAmericans and the Constitution" as the keynote speaker for an Institutionwide
celebration that included films, concerts, lectures, and tours. Among the many
special programs were a two-day conference on African-American lifestyles during the first years of the republic; a lecture by Gail Lumet Buckley, daughter of Lena Horne; and performances of jazz, blues, tap, and social dance. "Field to Factory: AfroAmerican Migration, 1915-1940," a major exhibition that examines the mass movement of black Americans from the rural South to the urban North, opened February 5 at the National Museum of American History.
February
Training and Support: Members of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory provided onsite assistance and training to workers at the important archaeological excavation
under way at Harappa, Pakistan.
February
Conservation: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute was named to the local
committee to organize the 1992 World National Parks Congress, which will be held in Panama.

<<<Page: 22>>>

February
Appointment: Dr. Philip Ravenhill was appointed to the newly created position of chief curator at the National Museum of African Art.
February
Awards: The Society for Technical Communications, Washington, D.C., Chapter, cited Smithsonian publications and articles for excellence. Four first place awards in
various categories went to the Department of Botany brochure and The Torch (both awarded to the Office of Public Affairs and the Smithsonian Institution Press) and two Smithsonian News Service feature stories. The Department of Botany brochure subsequently won an honorable mention award in the organization’s international competition.
February |
New Location: Smithsonian Institution Libraries opened its new National Museum of African Art Branch in the Quadrangle. It was later named the Warren M. Robbins Library, honoring the founder of the museum.
February 8
Television: National Zoological Park Director Michael Robinson showcased several zoo animals on "Capital Edition," a local, Sunday morning television program.
February 9
Acquisition: With support from the Smithsonian Institution Regents Special Acquisitions Fund, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum added a remarkable piece to other extremely rare Oriental textile works in its permanent collection--a thirteenthcentury needlework figure of a bodhisattva, believed to have originated in China.
February 11
New Publication: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Career Awareness Program published the first issue of its student newsletter, The CAP-LET.
Developed and written by the staff and student volunteers, the newsletter reaches more than seven hundred program alumni, current participants, teachers, and school administrators.
February 12
Exhibition: "The Making of a Dinosaur" opened at the National Museum of Natural History. Over a span of two years, visitors will be able to monitor the progress of fossil-preparation experts as they carefully extract the bones of a dinosaur (Coelophysis) from a ten-ton block of siltstone and reassemble the fossilized
remains of the 220-million-year-old dinosaur for display.

<<<Page: 23>>>

February 17
Grant: The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates awarded a $20,000 grant to the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center to support future production
of "The Smithsonian Institution: Airplanes to Zoos," a video to prepare children and families for their visit to the Smithsonian.
February 17
Exhibition: “The Catalan Spirit: Gaudi and His Contemporaries" opened at the CooperHewitt Museum. A reception celebrating the opening of the exhibition was held February 23 and attended by opera star Placido Domingo and other internationally known figures.
February 18
Lecture Series: The National Air and Space Museum offered the first lecture in its five-part series, "Exploring Space." The series featured well-known space scientists who examined current understanding of the origins, evolution, and structure of the universe.
February 19
Expansion: With the opening of “Nancy Graves: A Sculpture Retrospective" and the relocation of its Museum Shop, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden inaugurated its newly expanded Special Exhibition Galleries on the lower level and introduced its Orientation theater. Visitors to the theater will view audio-visual programs on
special exhibitions and a program, made possible by a grant from the J. Paul Getty Trust, on the permanent collection.
February 19-20
Conference: "A Common Agenda for History Museums" was held at the National Museum of American History. Sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution, the American Association
of Museums, and the American Association for State and Local History, the conference identified many shared concerns and problems of historical organizations and history museums and developed recommendations for organizations with historical collections.
February 22
Performance: Internationally acclaimed cabaret singer Michael Feinstein made his Smithsonian debut in a performance organized by the Resident Associate Program.
February 24 New Facility: The National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive Educational Technologies was established. The first U.S. facility to focus entirely on research
and demonstration of state-of-the-art interactive video technology, the laboratory is a joint project of the Smithsonian and a consortium of public television stations.

<<<Page: 24>>>

February 25
Lecture: Ohio Senator and former astronaut John Glenn commemorated the twenty-fifth anniversary of his flight in Friendship 7 in a program cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program and the National Air and Space Museum.
February 26
Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members of the Contributing Membership participated in a special tour of "Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman," an exhibition at the National Museum of Natural History.
February 27
Exhibition: "Gene Davis, A Memorial Exhibition" opened at the National Museum of American Art. The eighty-four paintings and drawings by Davis, a major figure in twentieth-century American art, included the finest examples of his familiar stripe paintings, as well as a selection of his best work in lesser-known formats.
Subsequent programs included workshops for children and a panel discussion with five prominent figures in the art world reviewing color painting and its continued importance.
March
Grant: The National Museum of American History received approximately $1 million from the DuPont Company in support of "A Material World," a major exhibition, on the use man-made materials in our culture, to open in spring 1988.
March
Training: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory announced several new initiatives in its rapidly growing conservation training program. These include a graduate program in conservation science, a joint enterprise with Johns Hopkins University, and a number of Institutionwide postgraduate internships for conservators.
March
Publication: The Office of Printing and Photographic Services produced a book as a companion to its exhibition of photographs of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, which opened at the Russell Senate Office Building in November 1986. Published by Stackpole Books of Harrisburg, Pa., Reflections on The Wall was well-received and, by the
close of the 1987 fiscal year, was in its second printing.
March
Publication: The first general brochure for visitors to the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, which is under the custodianship of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, was produced by the Office of Public Affairs. English and Spanish editions of the brochure were printed.

<<<Page: 25>>>

March
Publication: A guide to the new Nature Trail on Barro Colorado Island was completed. "A Day on Barro Colorado Island" was written by Dr. Marina Wong, ornithologist, and Jorge Ventocilla, of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s Office of Education and Conservation. A Spanish version will be published in 1988.
March 5
Acquisition: A reception following a lecture on the Dibner Library honored Silvio A. Bedini, who retired after twenty-six years of service to the Institution. To mark Mr. Bedini’s contributions, Smithsonian Institution Libraries purchased for its Special Collections Branch a finely illustrated volume of Misura del tempo (Padua: 1665) by Giuseppe, de Capriglia. Misura del Tempo is believed to be the first book on
clocks, one of Mr. Bedini’s many fields of scholarship.
March 6
Installation: For the first time since its opening in January 1972, the Renwick Gallery installed prime objects from its permanent collection--forty-four works chosen to represent all contemporary craft media. During the year, the gallery presented lectures by artists whose works are included in its collection.
March 9
Acquisition: The Office of Horticulture was given the Garden Club of America’s comprehensive slide collection of notable parks and gardens.
March 12-15
Special Event: National Associates attended lectures and private tours in conjunction with the Matisse exhibit at the National Gallery of Art.
March 15
Groundbreaking: Construction began on a new dining facility at the National Air and Space Museum. Scheduled to be completed in fall 1988, the new facility will include an 800-seat, self-service cafeteria and a self-service restaurant seating 180
persons.
March 16
Milestone: At a meeting of the entire staff of the National Museum of Natural History, Director Robert S. Hoffmann summarized the results of a six-month study of the museum’s organizational effectiveness and highlighted four areas where changes were recommended. The study was conducted by McKinsey and Company, Inc.
March 24
Exhibition: "Louis Sullivan: The Function of Ornament," an exhibition devoted to the work of one of America’s most influential architects and organized by the Chicago Historical Society and the St. Louis Art Museum, opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Presentation in New York was made possible by a generous grant from the J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

<<<Page: 26>>>

March 24
Special Event: Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members of the Contributing Membership were given a special tour of "Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation," an exhibition at the National Museum of American Art.
March 25
Award: On behalf of the American Heart Association, Congressman Frank R. Wolf of Virginia presented awards to Office of Protection Services security officers Ida
Chase, Willie Jones, and Kenneth Doll for administering cardio-pulmonary resuscitation under life-threatening circumstances.
March 27
Special Event: A special screening of "Voices of Latin America," a "Smithsonian World" cultural documentary, was held at Carmichael Auditorium for members of Washington’s Hispanic community. The program was aired nationally over the Public Broadcasting Service on April 8.
March 30
Outreach: As part of a major effort to reach the Hispanic community, the Office of Public Affairs hired a full-time public affairs specialist, fluent in Spanish and English, to develop and carry out an appropriate media program.
April
Acquisition: The Smithsonian acquired Folkways Records, the best known publisher of commercial recordings of folk and tribal music and publisher of a historically
significant collection of spoken-word recordings. The Folkways Records catalogue contains more than twenty-two hundred albums. Folkways Records was acquired from the estate of founder Moses Asch.
April
Discovery: A Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics scientist and colleagues, working with images of Jupiter’s moons returned by the Voyager spacecraft, found evidence that material from the interior of Europa may be venting through its icecovered surface.
April
Reorganization: Responsibility for Smithsonian communications was transferred from the Office of Plant Services to the Office of Information Resource Management. Consolidation of all communications-management activities into one organization marked an important step toward full integration of the Institution’s voice-, data-, and image-communications technologies.

<<<Page: 27>>>

April
Planning: On the basis of a study by the Office of Programming and Budget, several major new procedures were incorporated into the annual budget formulation process to aid budget decision-making. The procedures facilitate communication of budget information throughout the Institution and further automate entry and analysis of budget data.
April
Restoration: The second phase of the Olmsted Walk restoration was completed at the
National Zoological Park. Striking red-toned, man-made stones now pave the walkway. New stone walls, niches for benches, curbs, and plantings extend from the pedestrian
gate on Connecticut Avenue to the entrance area of the Education Building.
April
Grants: The Office of Fellowships and Grants announced the Webb Fellowship recipients.
April
Exhibition: In conjunction with National Science and Technology Week, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service inaugurated "Diversity Endangered," a poster exhibition that addresses the loss of biological diversity on the planet. A grant
from the National Science Foundation supported the development of the twenty fullcolor posters that make up the exhibition. A videotape to accompany the exhibition was produced by the Office of Telecommunications.
April
Research: For the International Research and Exchanges Board, the Office of Museum Programs organized a delegation of four museum Specialists, including two Native Americans, to view and document for the first time American Indian collections in East Germany.
April
Collaboration: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute inaugurated a collaboration with the University of Panama’s Museum of Invertebrates. The institute donated and identified specimens and provided support for student research projects.
April
Lectures: "Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time," a series of public lectures on current theories about the origin, evolution, and ultimate fate of the universe, was presented in Boston and Washington, D.C., by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. In Boston, the series was organized with the Boston Museum of Science; in Washington, the Resident Associate Program was the cosponsor.
April 1
Anniversary: Air & Space/Smithsonian, the bi-monthly magazine of the National Air and Space Museum, celebrated its first anniversary.

<<<Page: 28>>>

April 1
Visit: Bernadette Chirac, wife of the premier of France, along with her guests, became the first official visitor to the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. They were accompanied through the new museum, which was still under construction, by Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler and Milo Beach, assistant director.
April 1-5
International Program: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program visited Toronto, Canada, for the first time. The program offered a series of events to celebrate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Royal Ontario Museum.
April 2 Exhibition: "The Art of Henry Inman" opened at the National Portrait Gallery. April 3
Groundbreaking: At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, construction of the Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Center began. Groundbreaking ceremonies were attended by Panama President Eric A. Delvalle, other government officials, and representatives of educational and scientific organizations, including Glenn Tupper
and Gladys Liddy of the Earl S. Tupper Foundation, which made the facility possible through its donation to the institute.
April 8
Benefit: A dinner dance, organized by the Decorative Arts Association of the CooperHewitt Museum, was held in honor of Mrs. Virgil Sherrill and her firm, McMillen, Inc., one of the oldest interior design firms in New York, for their contributions to the development of design in this century. Funds raised by the event will support the acquisition of important decorative art objects for the museum’s permanent
collection.
April 8
Reception: Contributing Members in Topeka, Kansas, were invited to a special reception following the National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program performance "The Old Ship of Zion: Afro-American Gospel Music, 1755-1986," by Horace Clarence Boyer.
April 10
Publications: The first issue of Smithsonian Studies in American Art, a new
semiannual journal examining a wide spectrum of the nation’s visual heritage, was published by Oxford University Press in association with the National Museum of American Art. This year also saw the inauguration of the Library of American Art series--published by Harry N. Abrams, Inc. in association with the National Museum of American Art.

<<<Page: 29>>>

tw ie)
April 15
Grants: The Office of Fellowships and Grants named the recipients of fellowships for 1987-88.
April 15
Course: The Resident Associate Program presented the first session of "The Best of The New Yorker," a course that was arranged in collaboration with The New Yorker magazine and featured Brendan Gill, John Updike, Ann Beattie, Pauline Kael, Calvin Trillin, John McPhee, Mark Singer, Lee Lorenz, George Booth, Ed Koren, Charles Saxon, and Robert Weber.
April 16
Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired J. S. Duplessis’s 1785 painting of Benjamin Franklin.
April 16
Special Event: Sustaining, Patron and James Smithson Society Members previewed the exhibition "American Art Deco" at the Renwick Gallery.
April 17
Agreement: During his visit to the Soviet Union, Smithsonian Secretary Adams signed a protocol of negotiation with the country’s Ministry of Culture. The agreement,
covering a period from 1988 through 1992, is the first step in a program of
cooperation that will include joint research projects and exchanges of art exhibitions and delegations of museum experts and curators.
April 17
Exhibition: “American Art Deco," a comprehensive exhibition of more than two hundred objects in all media, opened at the Renwick Gallery. Accompanied by a book of the same title, the exhibition demonstrated how the Art Deco movement’s modernist style revolutionized the fine and decorative arts. Art Deco experts participated in a complementary all-day symposium. After its showing at the Renwick, the exhibition was circulated to museums in Miami, Omaha, Tulsa, and St. Paul.
April 21
Research Milestone: National Zoological Park scientists used artificial insemination techniques to produce common (European) ferrets. The procedure holds promise as an option for breeding programs to reverse the decline of the endangered black-footed ferret.
April 24-26
Special Event: The Smithsonian Women’s Committee sponsored the fifth annual Washington Craft Show. One hundred craftspeople exhibited and sold their work in the juried show. Proceeds from the show and the preview reception are used to fund educational and research projects throughout the Institution.

<<<Page: 30>>>

April 26
Film Festival: The Office of the Committeee for a Wider Audience and the Resident Associate Program, in collaboration with the Washington, D.C., International Film Festival, hosted a screening of the film Opera Do Malandro to celebrate the opening of the Brazilian Showcase of Filmfest D.C. The event attracted nearly five hundred guests from the local Brazilian, Hispanic, and diplomatic communities and helped the Institution establish new ties with these audiences.
April 27-28
Special Event: The National Air and Space Museum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Facility in Suitland, Maryland, hosted its Fifth Annual Open House, attracting more than fifteen thousand visitors.
April 30
Exhibition: "IRAS: A Telescope in a Bottle" went on display in the National Air and Space Museum’s Stars Gallery. The exhibition includes a full-scale reconstruction of the space-based /nfrared Astronomical Satellite that has given astronomers a new
look at the distant universe, resulting in many important findings, which are described in the exhibition.
Publication: A brochure on the Anacostia Museum was produced and distributed to coincide with the opening of the museum at its new location. The brochure was funded by a grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.
Discovery: A team of Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics scientists, using the optical speckle interferometry technique with a telescope in Chile, observed a bright companion to Supernova 1987A. The apparent brightness of the object and its nearness to the supernova suggested it was linked to the stellar explosion.
Field Course: With the University of Panama, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute sponsored a field course on bryophytes and lichens. The course was directed by university Professor Noris Salazar and Alan Smith, an institute scientist. It focused on the ecological importance of these plant groups and gave students the opportunity to do independent research.
Visit: A delegation from Yerevan, capital of Soviet Armenia, visited the HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics as part of the cultural, scientific, and political activities associated with the sister-city agreement between Yerevan and Cambridge, Massachusetts.
i Wo

<<<Page: 31>>>

Public Awareness Campaign: The Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience received a grant from the Smithson Society to launch a major public awareness campaign intended to acquaint black Americans with the Smithsonian’s programs and services.
Symposium: “The Impact of Very Long Baseline Interferometry on Astrophysics and Geophysics," hosted by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, attracted some three hundred scientists from two dozen countries for discussions on topics ranging from the observation of "superluminal" motion in quasars to the measurement of continental drift.
Workshop: "Interpretive Labeling for Art Museums," a workshop organized by the Smithsonian’s Kellogg Project, was held at the Toledo Museum of Art. Teams from ten art museums participated.
May 1
Education Program: "Zoo animals: A Closer Look," the National Zoological Park’s science education program for elementary school children, celebrated its tenth anniversary with a reception for all teachers who have participated in the program.
May 1-3
Outreach: Representatives of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute participated for the first time in the biannual General Kuna Indian Congress. For more than a decade, the institute has operated an important marine research facility in the Kuna Yala Archipelago. Participation in the congress strengthened the institute’s relationship with the Kuna Indians.
May 1-3
Special Event: National Air and Space Associates attended a weekend program with curators and staff at the National Air and Space Museum.
May 4
New Board Members: Professor Frederick Mote of Princeton University and Sherman Lee, director emeritus of the Cleveland Museum of Art, were named to the Visiting Committee of the Freer Gallery of Art.
May 5
New Trustees: Agnes Gund, a well-known collector of contemporary art, and Robert T.
Buck, director of the Brooklyn Museum, were elected to the Board of Trustees of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden at the board’s semiannual meeting.

<<<Page: 32>>>

May 7
Exhibit: The "Invertebrate Exhibit," the first comprehensive exhibit of living invertebrates in the United States, opened at the National Zoological Park.
May 7
Award: The National Zoological Park awarded a Silver Medal to E. O. Wilson of Harvard University in recognition of outstanding service to zoological science and
conservation. The award ceremony included a talk by Wilson on the importance of invertebrates in global ecology.
May 7
Exhibition: Following a highly successful thirteen-month tour to museums in Seattle, Minneapolis, Cleveland, Fort Worth, and Atlanta, "Treasures from the National Museum of American Art," an exhibition of eighty-one works from colonial to contemporary times, returned to its home for its final showing.
May 12
Grant: The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center received a grant from the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation to support production of an orientation video for the new Smithsonian Information Center, scheduled to open in 1989.
May 13
Telecast: The Public Broadcasting Service aired "The Elephant On The Hill," the third special of the third season of "Smithsonian World."
May 14
Lecture: In a lecture cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program and the National Air and Space Museum, Dick Rutan and Jeana Yeager relived their around-the-world flight in Voyager.
May 15
Research Milestone: "Test tube," or in vitro, fertilization resulted in the births of domestic cats, marking the first time that the fertilization method was successful with a carnivore species. The application of this technique to felines, developed by National Zoological Park scientists, may eventually help save species of small wild cats from extinction.
May 15-19
International Workshop: Thirty-five leading paleoecologists from the United States, Canada, England, and West Germany evaluated current understanding of catastrophic disruptions to land ecosystems during the past 400 million years. The conference--the first devoted to this topic--was organized by the scientists directing the National Museum of Natural History’s new Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems program.
ie) an

<<<Page: 33>>>

May 16
Symposium: In conjunction with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum exhibition "Louis Sullivan: The Function of Ornament," four preeminent scholars of American architectural history examined Sullivan’s work in light of contemporaneous developments in the urban fabric of Chicago.
May 16
Special Program: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education presented "Teaching the Constitution," a symposium that attracted 150 elementary and secondary school teachers and administrators from throughout the mid-Atlantic region. A report on the proceedings was distributed free of charge to participants and other interested
teachers.
May 17
Reopening: The Anacostia Museum reopened at its new site at 1901 Fort Place, Southeast, Washington, D.C. The inaugural exhibition was "Contemporary Visual Expressions," which featured the artworks of Sam Gilliam, Martha Jackson-Jarvis, Keith Morrison, and William T. Williams.
May 17 and 21
Anniversary: The sixtieth anniversary of Charles Lindbergh’s solo transatlantic
flight was commemorated at the National Air and Space Museum by "A Festival of American Music," performed by the U.S. Air Force Concert Band, and the annual Charles A. Lindbergh Memorial Lecture, delivered by retired Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis, Jr., the U.S. Air Force’s first black general.
May 18-23
Symposium: "Constitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities," the Ninth
International Smithsonian Symposium, was the scholarly centerpiece of the national observance of the bicentennial of the United States Constitution. Held in Charlottesville, Virginia, and Washington, D.C., the symposium brought together sixtyeight participants from twelve countries. Essays will be published in a volume to be edited by A.E. Dick Howard, symposium chairman; several video documentaries also will be produced.
May 21
Exhibition: "Morris Louis" opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, concluding a successful three-city national tour that began at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. The exhibition featured forty-six paintings by the acclaimed Washington colorist.
May 21-22 Dedication and Opening: The 4.2-acre Enid A. Haupt Garden, the pastoral "roof" of
the Institution’s new underground museum complex, was dedicated and opened to the public.

<<<Page: 34>>>

May 23-24
Workshop: Dr. Anson Hines of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center conducted a workshop on the ecology of blue crabs and other portunid species.
May 26
Obituary: Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, 73, primary benefactor of the Sackler Gallery died unexpectedly in New York City without realizing his expressed dream of participating in the public opening of the new museum that would bear his name.
May 27
Course: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program presented an extensive program of lectures, workshops and seminars in Madison, Wisconsin. The four-day series was presented by Smithsonian curators and members of the University of Wisconsin-Madison faculty.
May 29
Reinstallation: The completion of the National Portrait Gallery’s reinstallation of its permanent collection was marked with the opening of "Stage Portraits: Photographs by Mathew Brady from the Frederick Hill Meserve Collection."
May 29
Exhibition: "Portraits from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters" opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
June
Award: The Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities awarded a grant to the National Museum of African Art to support one of the museum’s inaugural exhibitions, "African Art in the Cycle of Life," which featured works on loan from other collections.
June
Research: The Mineral Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior awarded a contract to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute for studies on the long-term biological effects of the April 1986 oil spill on the Caribbean coast of Panama. The five-year project is centered at the institute’s Galeta Marine Laboratory.
June
Outreach: The Office of Public Affairs began distributing a Spanish version of the Smithsonian’s monthly calendar of events to 113 Hispanic publications and civic organizations. In July, the Spanish language calendar was published as a paid advertisement in the Washington newspaper E/ Latino. Reprints of the calendar ad were made available to the public during the Washington, D.C., Hispanic-American Festival and the Smithsonian’s Tarde Hispana.

<<<Page: 35>>>

June
Temporary Closing: In preparation for a major construction project that will eventually link the Freer and Sackler galleries and add space for conservation and collections storage, eight exhibition galleries on the east side of the Freer Gallery of Art were closed to the public. A representative selection from the museum’s permanent holdings remained on display in several special exhibitions that opened during the year in other parts of the building: "American Painting," "Japanese Art," and "Chinese Art."
June
Workshop: The Office of Museum Programs conducted a "Facilitators Workshop" for Smithsonian staff members who serve as faculty for the office’s workshops.
June
Acquisition: In memory of Mrs. Bern Dibner, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries purchased for its Special Collections Branch a rare volume, Bianchelli, Mengo, Super Logicam of Pauli Veneti (Venice: Junta, 1520).
June |
Milestone: Seward Johnson, Jr., chairman of the board and president of the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution, Inc., and Secretary Adams signed a long-term lease agreement, allowing for construction of needed facilities at the Smithsonian Marine
Station at Link Port, Fort Pierce, Florida.
June 3
Acquisition: In appreciation for the Smithsonian’s contributions to Nepal’s efforts
to preserve its Royal Chitawan National Park, Prince Gyenendra presented two young greater one-horned rhinoceroses to the National Zoological Park. Participants in the ceremony included U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel.
June 3
Research Tour: For representatives of the U.S. Department of Energy and visiting scientists, Bert Drake of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center displayed and described the facilities and equipment he is using to control levels of carbon dioxide in his novel study on the effects of the "greenhouse gas" on marsh plant communities.
June 3
Special Event: National Associates attended a lecture and reception at the National Air and Space Museum before departing on the Odyssey of Flight study tour.
June 4
Benefit: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s Tenth Anniversary Ball included a Farewell Salute to Lisa Taylor, who earlier in the year announced her retirement as the museum’s director. The event, held at the museum, raised money for an endowment fund for special research projects in the field of design. The fund will be named in Taylor’s honor.

<<<Page: 36>>>

June 7
Program: The High School Summer Intern Program began its first session under the auspices of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Each summer this program brings forty high school graduates from throughout the country to the Institution for a five-week series of educational and service activities.
June 8
Agreement: Secretary Adams signed an agreement with the Soviet Academy of Sciences. The agreement specifies the details of Institution’s and the Soviet Union’s
participation in an upcoming exhibition, "Crossroads of Continents," that will be displayed in the United States and the Soviet Union.
June 9
Special Event: Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members attended "A Victorian Evening," a special reception in the Arts and Industries Building and the new Enid A. Haupt Garden.
June 10
Telecast: The Public Broadcasting Service aired "The Promise of the Land," the fourth special of the third season of "Smithsonian World."
June 10-14
Tour: "Smithsonian Treasures: A Behind-the-Scenes Tour for Contributing Members" was sponsored by the Smithsonian National Associates Travel Program in cooperation with the Contributing Membership Program.
June 15
Publication: "Disabled Museum Visitors: Part of Your General Public," a video program and handbook, was published by the special education program of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, in collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution Press and the Office of Telecommunications. Designed to help museum docents work more effectively with disabled visitors, the materials will be used for training at the
Institution and will be distributed to museums across the country by the Office of Museum Programs.
June 17
Gift: The National Museum of American History received the first Jarvik-7 artificial heart used in an authorized implant as a temporary measure for patients awaiting a donor heart. The heart was designed by Robert Jarvik and donated by the University Medical Center of the Arizona Health Sciences Center at the University of Arizona.

<<<Page: 37>>>

June 18
Award: In a private ceremony, Ira Rubinoff, director of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, received the Government of Panama’s Order of Vasco Nunez de Balboa for his accomplishments in marine research and for his support of young scientists
from Panama and elsewhere in Latin America.
June 19
Agreement: A mutual cooperation agreement was signed by Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and Kuna Indian representatives. The agreement provides formal recognition of the institute’s marine station on the Kuna Yala (San Blas) islands.
June 19
Exhibition: "Into the Sunlit Splendor," an exhibition featuring forty oil paintings by contemporary aviation artist William S. Phillips, opened in the National Air and Space Museum’s Flight and the Arts Gallery.
June 23-27
Panda Births: Giant panda twins were born at the National Zoological Park. One cub died within seconds of birth, apparently unable to survive because of its small size. The other cub survived the birth and appeared healthy until June 26. It succumbed early on June 27.
June 24-28; July 1-5
Folklife Festival: The 21st annual Festival of American Folklife featured Michigan folklife; the role of language in the preservation of cultural heritage; music of the cultural communities of metropolitan Washington, D.C.; and dance parties. LaoAmericans from the Washington, D.C., area celebrated a Rocket Festival, a tradition believed to encourage rain.
June 29
Seminars: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its 1987 series of summer seminars for local teachers from the Washington, D.C., area and one graduate course for teachers from throughout the United States.
June 28-July 3
Seminars: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program conducted three weeklong seminars in Washington, D.C. These were: "Garden Planning and Design" and two new seminars, "Sculpture in the Nation’s Capital," and "Photojournalism."
July
Grant: The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation awarded a $542,000 grant to the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service for the research, production,
and educational programming of the exhibition "Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure." The foundation contributed an additional $300,000 to support development
of local educational programming during the exhibition’s national tour.

<<<Page: 38>>>

July
Discovery: The discovery of what may be the first true "binary quasar" was reported by an international team of astronomers that included a HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics scientist. Confirmation of the distances of the objects from Earth
was made with the Multiple Mirror Telescope at the Smithsonian’s Whipple Observatory.
July
Acquisition: With the aid of a grant from the James Smithson Society, the National Museum of African Art purchased a carved figure of a seated male and female from the Akan peoples of Ghana.
July
Staff Change: Ira Rubinoff, director of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, began a one-year sabbatical at Harvard University.
July |
Outreach: As part of continuing outreach efforts focused on minority communities, backlit dioramas, produced by the Office of Public Affairs with Educational Outreach Funds, were installed in six subway stations and the Washington, D.C., Amtrak station. Using the theme "Explore Your Heritage," the dioramas highlighted the multi-cultural aspects of the Smithsonian’s collections.
July 1
Publication: The second edition of /ntroduction to the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden was published by Harry N. Abrams, Inc., New York. Revised and updated, the publication includes an introduction by Hirshhorn Director James T. Demetrion and reproductions of several works acquired since the museum’s opening in 1974.
July 1
Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members attended an exclusive presentation of the Michigan Program of the Festival of American Folklife on the National Mall. A traditional Michigan picnic supper was served.
July 2
Resignation: Peggy A. Loar resigned as director of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service to head the Wolfsonian Foundation in Miami. Eileen Rose, associate director for programs, was named acting director.
July 6-31
New Program: The National Science Resources Center began its Science and Technology for Children project with a four-week workshop to develop science materials for elementary schools. Representing urban, suburban, and rural school districts
nationwide, more than seventy scientists, teachers, and science museum educators participated.

<<<Page: 39>>>

July 8
Publication: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries published a facsimile of the nineteenth-century trade catalog, L. Straus and Sons Richest Cut Glassware, with the American Cut Glass Association.
July 8
Course: The Resident Associate Program, the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, and the National Portrait Gallery presented a course in which six authors and artists discussed their work. The participating artists and authors were George Rickey, Will Barnet, Cyrthia Ozick, Philip Pearlstein, Anthony Hecht, Elizabeth Hardwick, Susan Sontag, and Hugo Weisgall.
July 9
Anniversary: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Book Conservation Laboratory celebrated its tenth anniversary with an exhibition that illustrated traditional methods of binding and book repair and modern ultrasonic techniques.
July 10
New Council: The Office Elementary and Secondary Education convened the first meeting of the Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education. Appointed by Smithsonian Secretary Adams, the council is charged with helping to stimulate and shape Smithsonianwide priorities and directions in education.
July 10
Exhibition: "Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria," a major exhibition organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service with the cooperation of the Syrian Directorate of Antiquities, opened at the National Museum of Natural History. Displaying 281 examples of statuary, inscriptions, mosaics, jewelery, and other artifacts that had never been viewed in America, the exhibition illustrated how Syrian cultures have influence ten thousand years of history.
July 10
Exhibition: "John La Farge," co-organized by the Carnegie Museum of Art, opened at
the National Museum of American Art. The exhibition featured 111 works documenting the nineteenth-century artist’s accomplishments in painting, graphics, and stained glass--
the medium in which he made his most enduring contribution. A symposium that explored the history, aesthetics, and techniques of American stained glass was presented in conjunction with the exhibition.
July 15 Appointment: Robert Hoffmann, director of the National Museum of Natural History, was
named Smithsonian assistant secretary for research. Hoffmann’s appointment is effective January 1, 1988. He succeeds David Challinor, who retired.

<<<Page: 40>>>

July 15
Special Event: The Embassy of Egypt and WETA hosted a special screening of "Islam," the fifth and final special of the third season of "Smithsonian World." The program, which was telecast in the United States on July 22, received wide acclaim in the international Islamic community.
July 15
Premiere: The half-hour film The Movie Palaces, produced by the Office of Telecommunications, premiered nationwide on the Public Broadcasting Service network.
July 15
Awards: Blue Pencil awards, from the National Association of Government Communicators, were given to The Torch, the Department of Botany brochure, and two Smithsonian News Service feature stories--all produced by the Office of Public
Affairs.
July 16
Special Event: The National Zoological Park offered the first concert in its annual series, Sunset Serenades. Between four hundred and seven hundred people attended each of the six Thursday evening concerts in 1987.
July 29
New Advisory Council: The first meeting of the new Smithsonian Film, Television, and Radio Council was held. Smithsonian Secretary Adams appointed Adrian Malone as chairman of the council.
July 30 Acquisition: The Office of Folklife Programs began its custodianship of the Folkways Archives. Received were about six hundred boxes of sound tapes, original glass disks,
as well as ethnographic files, correspondence, and other documentation associated with Folkways Records over the past half century.
July 30
Lecture: Author and lawyer Archibald Cox reflected on the role of the Supreme Court in a Resident Associate Program offering to mark the bicentennial of the
Constitution.
July 31
Retirement: John E. Reinhardt retired as director of the Directorate of International Activities, concluding his more than seven years of service to the Smithsonian.
a w)

<<<Page: 41>>>

August
Research: James Karr, Alan Smith, and Joseph Wright, all of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, gave research presentations at the Annual Joint Meetings of the Ecological Society of America and the Association for Tropical Biology in Columbus, Ohio. A total of twenty-one presentations at the meetings were based on research conducted at the institute.
August
Workshop: An Office of Museum Programs workshop, "Planning, Design, and Production of Exhibitions," was conducted in Costa Rica by a team of four Smithsonian staff
members. The workshop served as a model for the Training Committee of the International Council on Museums.
August
Outreach: About twenty high school teachers attended a summer workshop sponsored by Project STAR, a National Science Foundation-funded program at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The workshop was designed to improve the teaching of secondary school science through an astronomy curriculum.
August
Construction: Three greenhouses were completed--two for the Greenhouse-Nursery Division of the Office of Horticulture and one for the Marine Systems Laboratory for the development of an everglade mesocosm.
August
Publication: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) published Collections Management: An SIL Policy Manual, a two-volume work that was distributed to administrative offices and SIL units.
August
Public Service Announcement: "There’s a New Look at the Smithsonian," thirty-second and ten-second public service announcements were produced for television by the Office of Public Affairs. Announcing the opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the National Museum of African Art, the announcements were distributed to one hundred television stations around the country.
August 3-7
Conference: The Office of Protection Services (OPS) hosted the annual meeting of the International Committee on Museum Security. OPS Director Robert Burke was elected chairman of the committee. In conjunction with the meeting, the office conducted its tenth annual conference on museum security, attended by more than two hundred museum security specialists from around the world.

<<<Page: 42>>>

August 13
Exhibition: "Roger Brown," a midcareer retrospective for this Chicago-based artist, began its four-city national tour at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Brown later appeared at the museum in a public dialogue with film critic Gene Siskel.
August 13
Media Event: The Office of Public Affairs held the first Smithsonian press preview organized for the Hispanic media. Focusing on the Institution’s plans for the Columbus Quincentenary, the event was attended by twenty-nine journalists and sixty key figures from the Smithsonian and the Hispanic community.
August 17
Appointment: Cornell University astrophysicist Martin O. Harwit was appointed director of the National Air and Space Museum.
August 24
Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired John Valentine Haidt’s Young Moravian Girl (ca. 1755-1760) with funds provided by the American Art Forum, a group founded in 1985 to support and enrich the museum’s collection of American art.
August 27
Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members viewed the exhibition "John La Farge" at the National Museum of American Art.
September
Research Milestone: In a historic new project designed to aid in the preservation of the richest area of biodiversity on earth, a team of National Museum of Natural History scientists, working with colleagues from the United States and Latin America, systematically began to inventory the plant and animal life of Bolivia’s Beni
Biosphere Reserve. It was the first of a series of biodiversity inventories planned
by the museum over the next decade in protected reserves and parks in Latin America.
September
International Center: International Activities inaugurated the public and scholarly programs of the International Center with three presentations: Professor David Maybury-Lewis, Harvard University, spoke on "Tomorrow’s Children: An Outlook for the Next Generation"; award-winning filmmakers Phil Agland and Lisa Silcock premiered their film In the Shadow of the Forest: The Baka Pygmy; and noted author Carlos Fuentes opened the Columbus Quincentenary Lecture Series with a lecture on "The Americas: Our Shared Memory."
LSS) nN

<<<Page: 43>>>

September
Exhibition: "Sojourners and Settlers," a photographic exhibition of Yemeni migrants
in Yemen and in the United States opened in the foyer of the international conference area of the new S. Dillon Ripley Center. The exhibition inaugurated a program of modest exhibitions to enhance cross-cultural understanding.
September
Research: W. David Kingery, Kyocera Professor of Ceramic Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and internationally recognized authority on
historic ceramic technology, began a one-year Regents Fellowship at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory and the National Museum of American History. Kingery will study models of the interaction of society and technology.
September
New Program: Two graduate students entered the new conservation science training program, a joint initiative of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory and the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.
September
Minority Award: The Office of Museum Programs made its first Alaskan native award to Rose Fosdick under its Minority Awards program.
September
Publications: The Office of Public Affairs updated and redesigned the Institution’s visitor brochure for the opening of the new museum complex. Also revised and expanded were the “Guide for Disabled Visitors" and "Explore Your Heritage," which focuses on exhibitions and collections related to Afro-American history. A flyer and
commemorative brochure on the new complex were also produced by the office.
September
Grant: The Smithsonian Women’s Committee awarded a grant to the Smithsonian Archives to support a two-part workshop and seminar for Smithsonian staff on the care of photographs, motion picture film, audiotape, and videotape.
September |
Obituary: Thomas R. Soderstrom, curator in the Department of Botany, National Museum of Natural History, died in Washington, D.C. Soderstrom was an international expert in the taxonomy and biology of bamboos.
September 10
Tribute: The third level of the Institution’s new underground museum, research, and education complex was named in honor of Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley in recognition of Ripley’s vision, leadership, and public service and of his pivotal role in the creation of the complex. The S. Dillon Ripley Center houses a major exhibition gallery, offices, and education areas.

<<<Page: 44>>>

September 10
Media Event: Nearly three hundred people, representing ninety-eight print and broadcast outlets, attended an all-day preview of the Smithsonian’s new museum, research, and education complex. The largest single-day press event in the Institution’s history, the conference resulted in national and international media coverage in radio, television, newspapers, and magazines.
September 10
Expanded Service: The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center began operating information desks in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, National Museum of African Art, and S. Dillon Ripley Center.
September 11
Symposium: Organized by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies and the National Academy of Sciences, "Recreations with the Muses: Creativity in the Arts and Sciences” marked the upcoming opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Personal testimony from accomplished individuals in various walks of life and areas of expertise gave insight
into the creative process.
September 11
Special Event: A seated dinner for three hundred guests was held in honor of the opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Speakers included His Excellency Kyung-Won Kim, the ambassador of Korea, and Mr. Nagao Hyodo, minister for general affairs, Embassy of Japan. The governments of Korea and Japan contributed to the construction of the Sackler Gallery.
September 11
Special Event: As part of its Lectures and Seminars Series, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) presented a public program on "Books in the Attic: What Are They Worth?" Nearly two hundred people attended the panel discussion and the reception following the program. Copies of SIL’s "Book Collecting and the Care of Books" (revised edition) were distributed to the audience.
September 11-13
Special Event: In cooperation with several other Smithsonian offices, the Office of
the Committee for a Wider Audience participated in the Black Family Reunion held on the Mall and sponsored by the National Council of Negro Women. "Blacks in the Westward Movement," a photo-panel exhibition by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, was displayed; literature describing Smithsonian programs was distributed to visitors; and staff members were on hand to answer questions.
September 12
Award: "Smithsonian World" won a Primetime Emmy for "Outstanding Informational Series" from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.

<<<Page: 45>>>

September 12
Symposium: The National Museum of American History hosted "After Columbus: Encounters in North America," which examined early contacts between European settlers and Native Americans.
September 12
Special Program: A program of lectures on Asian art and culture was presented in honor of the opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Featured were speakers from the British Museum, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Chicago, and the University of Pennsylvania.
September 12
Memorial Concert: A concert was presented by Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler and the family and friends of the late Dr. Sackler in the Kennedy Center Concert Hall to celebrate the life of Dr. Sackler and the opening of the museum named for him.
September 13-19
Hispanic Heritage Week: Lectures, poetry readings, craft demonstrations, exhibition tours, films, and concerts were organized by six museums and the Resident Associate Program in observance of Hispanic Heritage Week. Subjects for the many programs ranged from social issues to the night skies over Latin America--graphically presented in a planetarium show. Tours, conducted in Spanish and English, were offered by the National Museum of American Art and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
September 13
Special Event: A festschrift in honor of the late Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, primary benefactor of the Smithsonian’s new museum of Asian art, was held in the lecture hall of the S. Dillon Ripley Center.
September 15
Exhibition: "Lucian Freud Paintings" began a four-city international tour with its opening at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden--the exhibition’s only American venue. The exhibition, organized by the British Council in London, featured eightyone paintings by the acclaimed British realist. British Ambassador Anthony Ackland hosted a dinner two days later and also attended the exhibition’s preview on September 14,
September 15
Award: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum received the Big Apple Award from the New York Chapter of the National Home Fashions League at a luncheon attended by four hundred members of the press and the home fashions industry. Director Emeritus Lisa Taylor accepted the award for the museum.

<<<Page: 46>>>

September 16
Symposium: The National Museum of African Art organized a symposium, "African Art Studies: The State of the Discipline." Made possible by a grant from the Shell Companies Foundation, the symposium was one of the museum’s inaugural events.
September 16
Lecture: In a Resident Associate Program lecture, author Toni Morrison presented readings from her recently published novel, Beloved. The lecture was followed by a book-signing reception.
September 17
Award: Cooper-Hewitt Museum Director Emeritus Lisa Taylor was presented the Henry Medal by Secretary Adams at a reception in his home. Taylor is the twentieth recipient of the award, named in honor of the first Secretary of the Institution.
September 17
Award: The National Zoological Park awarded a silver medal to Sir David Attenborough for his outstanding service to zoological science and conservation. Three hundred people attended the ceremony.
September 18
Benefit: The Junior Committee of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum held its first fall fundraising event--a black-tie ball organized around the theme of the exhibition "Art Nouveau Bing: The Paris Style 1900." More than eight hundred people attended the event.
September 22
Gift: The Gold Rush, one of the fastest human-powered land vehicles, was presented to the National Museum of American History. In May 1986, the Gold Rush reached a recordsetting speed of 65.48 miles per hour on a paved highway in the Sierra Nevada
mountains.
September 22-23
Special Event: The Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience hosted two receptions to introduce the Institution’s new museum complex: the first for members of local minority communities and the second for five hundred teachers from the Washington metropolitan area.
September 24-25
Conference: With funding from the Education Outreach Fund, the Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience and the Program in Black American Culture at the National Museum of American History organized a national forum for museum professionals to present and analyze innovative outreach programs that have succeeded in drawing new audiences to museums.

<<<Page: 47>>>

September 25
Film Series: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden launched its hightly acclaimed series of independent films, animated short features, and documentaries for the 198788 season.
September 26
Symposium: The Smithsonian Quincentenary Program presented its first public symposium, "Americans Before Columbus: Ice Age Origins.". Prominent North American scholars engaged in a lively debate focusing on the first human occupation of the Americas and on late Ice Age extinctions. The day-long event was cosponsored by the National Museum of Natural History.
September 26
Special Event: The annual activities for members of the James Smithson Society were held. Included were a morning tour of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the National Museum of African Art, followed by a luncheon at the official residence of H. E. Nobuo Matsunaga, ambassador of Japan. In the evening, a formal dinner was held at the National Air and Space Museum.
September 28
Dedication Ceremony: The new Smithsonian museum complex, including the National Museum of African Art, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the S. Dillon Ripley Center, and the Enid A. Haupt Garden, opened following a dedication ceremony headed by Secretary Adams; Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley; architect Jean-Paul Carlhian; Regent Anne L. Armstrong; and John R. Kinard, director of the Anacostia Museum.
September 28
Smithsonian Institution Day: A proclamation by the mayor of the District of Columbia named this day as Smithsonian Institution Day in honor of the public opening of the two new Smithsonian museums of art and the new international center.
September 28
Inaugural Exhibition: The Smithsonian’s International Gallery opened its inaugural exhibition, "Generations," organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service (SITES) and the International Center. "Generations" combined
three hundred artifacts from lenders worldwide with 125 award-winning photographs, resulting in an unprecedented look at how families around the globe and through the centuries have anticipated and welcomed newborns. SITES published a companion book, Generations: A Universal Family Album, for distribution by Pantheon Books.
September 28
Inaugural Exhibitions: The National Museum of African Art celebrated its opening with five inaugural exhibitions: "African Art in the Cycle of Life"; "Royal Benin Art in
the Collection of the National Museum of African Art"; "Patterns of Life: West
African Strip-Weaving Traditions"; "The Permanent Collection of the National Museum of African Art"; and "Objects of Use." Catalogues were published for the first three exhibitions.

<<<Page: 48>>>

September 28
Inaugural Exhibitions: The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery joined the Smithsonian family as its fourteenth museum as it opened to the public with the following inaugural exhibitions: "In Praise of Ancestors: Ritual Objects from China"; "Monsters, Myths,
and Minerals"; "Pavilions and Immortal Mountains: Chinese Decorative Art and Painting"; and "Nomads and Nobility: Art from the Ancient Near East."
September 29-30
Special Event: Donor, Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society
Members of the Contributing Membership Program attended private viewings of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the National Museum of African Art, the International Center, and the Enid A. Haupt Garden. A special reception was held in the Arts and Industries Building.

<<<Page: 49>>>

Appendix 1
Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1987
Honorable William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States
ex officio, Chancellor
Homprable George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States
ex officio
Honorable Edwin J. (Jake) Garn,
Senator from Utah
Honorable Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York
Honorable James R. Sasser,
Senator from Tennessee
Honorable Edwin P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts Honorable Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Honorable Norman Y. Mineta,
Honorable David C. Acheson,
Honorable Anne L. Armstrong, Dr. William G. Bowen, Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark, Dr. Murray Gell-Mann, Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Honorable Carlisle H. Humelsine, Mr. Samuel C. Johnson, Mr. Barnabas McHenry,
Neil Harris Chairman Dore Ashton John N. Bahcall Paul Fussell Stephen Jay Gould Thomas P. Hughes Ada Louise Huxtable Alice S. Ilchman Miguel Leon-Portilla Thomas E. Lovejoy Peter R. Marler
Representative from California
citizen of the District of Columbia citizen of Texas
citizen of New Jersey
citizen of the District of Columbia citizen of California
citizen of Pennsylvania
citizen of Virginia citizen of Wisconsin citizen of New York
Robert M. May Matthew S. Meselson Sidney W. Mintz Arthur Mitchell Frederick W. Mote David F. Musto Jaroslav J. Pelikan Peter H. Raven
Carl E. Schorske Alan Shestack
Emily D. T. Vermeule Dave Warren
Sheila E. Widnall

<<<Page: 50>>>

Frederick Seitz, Chairman Robert McC. Adams Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.
David Challinor Charles C. Gillespie Jean R. St. Clair
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Honorary Chairman
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, Chairman Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President
Mr. Dave H. Williams, Vice President/Treasurer
Mrs. Nancy B. Wellin, Vice President
Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall, Vice President Mrs. Francis de Marneffe, Vice President Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, First Secretary Miss Julienne Michel, Assistant Secretary
Miss Caroline R. Alexander Mrs. Eli Broad
Mr. Eli Broad
Mr. Ivan Chermayeff
Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun
Mrs. Walter B. Ford II
Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway Mrs. Philip C. Jessup, Jr. Mrs. Henry C. Johnson
Mrs. Charles Kessler
FOUNDING TRUSTEES Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman Mr. Edgar P. Richardson (deceased) Mrs. Edsel B. Ford (deceased)
Mr. Robert McC. Adams Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney Mr. Irvin A. Levy
Mr. Howard W. Lipman
Mr. Richard Manoogian Mr. Alexander R. Mehran Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman Mrs. John Rosekrans, Jr. Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain Mr. Alan E. Schwartz
Mr. Richard Jay Schwartz Mr. C. Bagley Wright
HONORARY TRUSTEES Dr. [Irving F. Burton
Mr. Russell Lynes Mrs. William L. Richards

<<<Page: 51>>>

Washington, D.C.
Bernard Mergen, Chair Marjory Balge Lorraine Brown
David Driskell Charles Eldredge Alan Fern
Lois Fink
New York
Milton Brown, Chair William C. Agee Thomas N. Armstrong John Dobkin
Anne d'Harnoncourt Linda S. Ferber William Gerdts Eugene Goossen
John Howat
New England
Harley P. Holden, Chair Winslow Ames
David S. Brooke Georgia Bumgardner Robert Cardinale Theresa Cederholm Anne Farnam Charles Ferguson Wolfgang Freitag Hugh Gourley
Elton W. Hall Patricia Hills Sinclair Hitchings John Holverson William Johnson John Kirk
Henry Glassie William Homer Charles F. Hummel Mare J. Pachter Ned Rifkin
John Vlach
John Wilmerding
James Humphry III John A. Kouwenhoven Russell Lynes Porter McCray Barbara Novak
Clive Phillpot Jules D. Prown William B. Walker H. Barbara Weinberg
Elizabeth M. Kornhauser William Lipke
Laura C. Luckey
Paul Master-Karnik Elliot Offner
James O'Gorman
Ronald Onorato
Stephen Riley
Daniel Rosenfeld
David Ross
Theodore Stebbins Susan Strickler Katharine Watson Michael Wentworth Peter A. Wick
Margret Craver Withers

<<<Page: 52>>>

Northern California
Herschel Chipp, Chair Graham Beal
Whitney Chadwick Wanda Corn
John Dillenberger James Elliott
Albert Elsen
Harvey Jones
Southern California
Constance Glenn, Chair E. Maurice Bloch
Ruth Bowman
Susan Danly
Bram Dijkstra
Beatrice Farwell Burton Fredericksen Henry Hopkins Christopher Knight
Chicago Documentation Project
Dennis Adrian
Don Baum
Jack Brown, ex officio Courtney Donnell Robert Evans
Richard Gray
Neil Harris
Mary Jane Jacob
Judith Kirshner
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY Visiting Committee
Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio David Challinor, Ex Officio
Dr. Charles Blitzer
Professor Kwang-chih Chang
Mrs. Cynthia Helms
Mr. Porter A. McCray
Ambassador George McGhee
Mr. Henry Millon
Connie Lewallen Margaretta Lovell Christina Orr—-Cahall Moira Roth
Peter Selz
Marc Simpson
Donald L. Stover
Ian McKibbin White
Richard Koshalek Susan Larsen-Martin Ronald Onorato
Earl A. Powell III Michael Quick
Josine Ianco Starrels Maurice Tuchman Richard V. West
Katharine Lee Maureen McKenna Archibald Motley Franz Schulze David Sokol James Wells
Wim de Wit
John Zukowsky
The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta Mrs. Cynthia Polsky
Dr. Edith Porada
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
H.H. Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu Professor Seymour Slive
Mr. Michael Sonnenreich

<<<Page: 53>>>

Visiting Committee
Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Mrs. Katherine Graham
Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio Sherman Lee
David Challinor, Ex Officio Porter McCray
The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Frederick W. Mote Chairman John M. Rosenfield
Laurence Sickman, Vice Chairman The Honorable Hugh Scott
Mrs. Jackson Burke Priscilla Soucek
Kwang-chih Chang Richard Weatherhead
Marvin Eisenberg
August Heckscher, Chairman Karen Johnson Boyd
Donald J. Bruckmann Rosemary Corroon (until June 1987) Joan K. Davidson
Joanne. du Pont
Harmon Goldstone
Russell Lynes
Kenneth Miller
Arthur Ross
Robert Sarnoff
Marietta Tree
Robert McC. Adams, ex Officio Tom Freudenheim, ex Officio
Sydney Lewis, Chairman
Jerome Greene, Vice Chairman
Charles Blitzer
Robert T. Buck (appointed May 5, 1987)
Agnes Gund (appointed July 1, 1987)
Thomas M. Evans (term ended June 30, 1987) Daniel P. Moynihan (resigned January 23, 1987) Robert Rosenblum
A. James Speyer (died November 9, 1986) Leonard C. Yaseen
Robert McCormick Adams, Ex Officio Warren E. Burger, Ex Officio (retired September 26, 1986) William Hubbs Rehnquist, Ex Officio (appointed
September 26, 1986)

<<<Page: 54>>>

Rebert Mcc. Adams, Chairman Jacsueline Pender
Vice Admiral Rebert F. Dunn, USN Bernard E. Smith, Jr.
Vice Acmiral James C. Irwin, USCG Le. General Keith A. Smith, Denald M. Koll USMC
Lt. General Donald D. Pihl, USA Willis Shapley, NASA
General Larry D. Welch, USAF
Dr. Lew Alien Dr. Jcnn Legscéen
Dr. CPaniel Jz-Beerstin Professor Otto Mayr Professor Freeman Dyscn Professor Alex Roland
Dr. Herbert Friedman Dr. Harriscn H. Schmidt Acmiral Neel Gaylor Professor William R. Sears Prortessor James R. Hansen Dr. Joan Warncw
Frank E. Moss, Chairman Frieda Rosenthal Frances Humphrey Howard, Susan Samuels Vice-Chairman Gustave Schindler David Driskell Michael Sonnenreich John A. Friede Robert Farris Thompson Colbert I. King Walter Washington Richard Long Robert McC. Adams, ex officio Helen Neufeld Tom L. Freudenheim, ex officio
Robert Nooter
Mrs. Mary Homans, Chairman David S. Purvis, Vice Chairman
Donald Anderson Richard Hunt
Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake R. Crosby Kemper, Jr. Thomas S. Buechner Myron Kunin
Wendell K. Castle Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy Mrs. Johnson Garrett Charles Parkhurst
Ms. Nancy Graves Mrs. John D. Rockefeller IV R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Wilbur L. Ross Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Mrs. Oliver Seth August Heckscher Mrs. John Farr Simmons Thomas C. Howe Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth Mrs. Jaquelin Hume Mrs. Bagley Wright
Robert McC. Adams, ex officio James T. Demetrion, ex officio

<<<Page: 55>>>

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY Commission
Senator Jake Garn (Chairman) Robert O. Anderson
Barry Bingham, Sr. Michael Collins
Thomas Mellon Evans
W. John Kenney
R. W. B. Lewis
Katie Louchheim
Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Senator Robert H. Morgan Barbara Novak
Frank Stanton
J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary,
HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE James R. Buckler, Belva Jensen Chairman
Orchid Subcommittee James R. Buckler
Edward S. Ayensu Mary L. Ripley
OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS NATIONAL W.'K. Kellogg Foundation Project
Tom L. Freudenheim, Chairman Mary Schmidt Campbell
David De La Torre
Alan M. Fern
J. O. Grantham
Philip S. Humphrey
Abram Lerner
William F. McSweeny
Smithsonian Institution,
ex officio
Carlton Lees
Paul E. Desautels
Paul N. Perrot
Richard H. Randall, Jr.
Ralph C. Rinzler
Michael H. Robinson
Susan Stitt
Michael Templeton
Jane R. Glaser, ex officio Janet W. Solinger, ex officio

<<<Page: 56>>>

Richard Bauman, Chairman Roger Abrahams
Douglas Evelyn
Henry Glassie
Rayna Green
Adrienne Kaeppler
John Langston Gwaltney
Adrian Malone, Chair Ann Bay
Jane Glaser
Paul Johnson Jeffrey LaRiche Felix Lowe
Arthur Molella Marc Pachter Bernice Reagon Ralph Rinzler Michael Robinson Virginia Schofield Stanwyn Shetler Janet Solinger
Charlotte Heth
Ivan Karp
William Merrill Bernice Johnson Reagon Roy Seiber
John Tchen
Carlos Velez-Ibanez
Advisers:
Edward Bastian Robert Dierker Madeleine Jacobs Tom Wolf
Carolyn Jones Chairperson Mary Combs Vice-Chair Christine Louton Secretary Lauranne Nash Secretary Katherine Sprague Treasurer Kathleen Baxter Historian Anne Carman Diana Cohen Montrose Cones
Lori Dempsey Debora Fletcher Carole Fox Roberta Geier Shadia Habbal Vera Hyatt Susan Jewett Susan Kalcik Ann Noel
Judith Petroski Margaret Santiago Joanna Scherer Ellen Sprouls Susan Warner Miriam Weissman

<<<Page: 57>>>

Bruce Craig Co-Chairperson
Mary Dyer Co-Chairperson
Eileen Hall Co-Chairperson
Magda Schremp Co-Chairperson
Ann Noel
January 1987-December 1988
Term
July 1987-June 1988
Term
January 1986-December 1986
Term
July 1986-June 1987
Term
Staff Assistant to the Council
Marcia Anderson Vicki Avera Linda Chick
Pat Chiatfo
Sal Cilella Bruce Craig Amy Crittenberger Zed David William Deiss Betty Beuck Derbyshire Kathy Dorman Mary Dyer
Erica E11 Shirley Epps Susan Epstein Zora Felton Marilyn F lorek William Gaske James Goode Eileen Hall Nancy Hinton Judith Houston Vera Hyatt
Harry Jackson
Mark Katz
Peter Xibbee Betty Lathern Edward Lawson
Trish Long
Tom Lowderbaugh Eleanor McMillan Carolyn Mills Lauranne Nash
Anne Peret
Alan Postlethwaite Ralph Rinzler Argelis Roman Magda Schremp Gayle Southworth Nei] Spitzer Rarbara Strickland Laurie Trippett
Marge Turgel
Linda Warden Wilcomn Washburn
Ken Yellis

<<<Page: 58>>>

Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr., Chairman
Mrs)... Joeqhier Abr ititionm
Mee ArthuneG. Adis chil:
Mr. Philip Anschutz
Mr. George B. Binghan, Jr. Mr. William W. Boeschenstein Mrs. I. Townsend Burden
Mr. Frank T. Cary
Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr. Mr. James H. Clement
Mr. Jeffrey Cole
Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.
Mr. Marshall Field
Honorable Ulric St. Clair Haynes, Mr. Gerald D. Hines
Mr. S. Charles Kemp
Mr. Thomas M. Keresey
Mr. Howard M. Love
Mr. Brooks McCormick
Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan Mr. Arjay Miller
Mr. John W. Morrison
Mr. Charles H. Murphy, Jr. Mr. Jack S. Parker
Mr. Sidney R. Petersen
Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, IV Mr. Charles W. Schmidt
Mrs. George M. Seignious II Mr. Malcolm T. Stamper
Mrs. James M. Walton Honorable John C. Whitehead Mr. J. Tylee Wilson
Mrs. Gay F. Wray
Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff
Honorary Members
Mr. William S. Anderson
Mr. Richard P. Cooley
Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III Honorable Leonard K. Firestone Mr ow Aliried aC: -Girassell, Jr. MrenwWia ia Had lkey-sGriffin Honorable William A. Hewitt Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.
Mr. Seymour H. Knox, III
Mr. Lewis A. Lapham
Honorable George C. McGhee Justice Sandra D. O'Connor
Mr. S. D&dslon chi pLey.
Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Mr, Merritt Kirk Ruddock Honorable Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Hpgs

<<<Page: 59>>>

Chairman
Vice Chairman Secretary
Assistant Secretary Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer
Mrs. Mrs. Mris:. Mrisis Mrs. Miris.. Mrs... Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mirisi. Minisis Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mr's:. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
ia Nv
David C. Acheson Daniel Antonoplos Denton Blair
Mario H. Boiardi Phidap Sk. Bowie Clarence Brown George Bush
Thomas J. Camp, Jr. Joseph V. Charyk Frank Clay
Richard Cobb
Robert Collier Stuart C. Davidson J. Edward Day Domenico De Sole Avery Faulkner Sydney J. Freedberg George C. Gerber John Worden Gill Robert Reed Gray Kari (Gs, (Harr, .d rs Walter James Hodges Walter Innis
Donald W. Jeffries George W. Jones Lucien Kinsolving Henry Krieger
Nevin E. Kuhl George Varick Lauder
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mires: : Mrs. Mrs; Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
I. Townsend Burden, III Williams S. Mailliard Adrian Fisher
Godfrey W. Kauffmann John Voorhees
James K. Mitchell
Wendell Lund
Bruce MacLaury Alexander M. Maish David E. MeGiffert
Sam Nunn
Dudley Owen
Richard R. Palmer Charles H. Percy Horace White Peters Charles. L.. Poor
Thomas Malcolm Price S. Dillon Ripley Frederick B. Rooney John T. Sapienza
W. Jerrold Scoutt, Jr. George Marion Seignious Henry P. Smith, III Harold Snell
Guy Thomas Steuart, II Potter Stewart
Mark Sullivan, III Richard L. Thompson Robert D. van Roijen Charles Swan Weber Edwin M. Wheeler
T. Ames Wheeler
Philip C. White
Gordon Page Williams

<<<Page: 60>>>

Board of Trustees HONORARY CHAIRMEN
Mrs. Ronald Reagan Mrs. Gerald R. Ford Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Chairman
Vice Chairman
Vice Chairman
Vice Chairman secretary
Assistant Secretary Treasurer
General Counsel Associate Counsel Assistant Treasurer
Members Appointed by the
JoerL., Albibritton
Mrs. Bennett Archambault Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Marshall B. Coyne Richmond Crinkley
June Oppen Degnan
James H. Evans
Robert Fryer
Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn Mrs. W. Lee Hanley, Jr. Charlton Heston
Caroline Rose Hunt
Mrs. Earle Jorgensen Melvin R. Laird
Marjorie M. Lawson
Mrs. Jimmy Carter Mrs. Richard M. Nixon Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
Roger L. Stevens
James A. McClure Leonard L. Silverstein Henry Strong
Jack Valenti
Charlotte Woolard Timothy ¢.. Coughlin Harry C. McPherson, Jr. William Becker
Henry Strong
President of the United States
Mrs. J. Willard Marriott Dina Merrill
Joan Mondale
Gerald M. Rafshoon
Mrs. Abraham Ribicoff Leonard L. Silverstein Jean Kennedy Smith
Roger B. Smith
Dennis Stanfill
Roger L. Stevens
Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss Henry Strong
Lew R. Wasserman
Mrs. Jack Wrather
Members Ex Officio Designated by Act of Congress
Otis R. Bowen William J. Bennett Charles Z. Wick Edward M. Kennedy Lowell Weicker, Jr. James A. McClure Joseph M. McDade Charles Wilson
Honorary Trustees Mrs. Albert Lasker s
. Jouett Shouse William Fulbright
Sidney R. Yates Marion S. Barry Robert McC. Adams James H. Billington
J. Carter Brown William Penn Mott, Jr. William B. Johnson
Ralph E. Becker Mrs. :J< Cilattord Folger
wn Wo

<<<Page: 61>>>

Michael X. Morrell, Chairman Thomas J. Mader, Executive Director
The Friends of the Kennedy Center would like to express gratitude to the following Patron members:
Alexandria Lighting & Supply, Inc. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. Mrs. Louis S. Ansberr
Alexandra Armstrong Advisors, Inc. Harry J. Banachowski
Drs. Rheda and Jordan Baruch Carole and Maurice Berk
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Berman Bozell & Jacobs, Inc.
The Hon. William E. Brock, III Mr. John J. Brogan
Edmund Cc. Bujalski
Ira Byram Foundation
Mresand: Mrs.B.T. Chapin
Mrs. Earl N. Chiles, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth G. Clare
Mr. and Mrs. David Dawson
Ms. Sukhbans K. Dhillon
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Dockser Dr. and Mrs. Seymour Dubroff
ERC International
Eastman Kodak Company
Mr. Khosro Eghbal
Calis. Polks, Led.
Mr. William C. George, Jr.
Dennis M. Gingold
Gerald Glaize
Miss Elisabeth J. Hand
Dr. and Mrs. Richard J. Haas
Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Harrison Paul and Annetta Himmelfarb Foundation, Inc. Mrs. Marilyn Brachman Hoffman
Dr. and Mrs. Richard E. Horman LBM Corporation, D:.c. International Developers, Inc. The Journal Newspapers
Mrs. Peter S. Kapo, IItl
Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Kay
Dr. William M. King
Mr. and Mrs. William F. Kroener, III Malcolm and Vivienne Lassman Warner and Kay LeRoy
Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Liebhaber Rutus! S. Lusk, Jr.
their

<<<Page: 62>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Murdaugh Stuart Madden A. Caroline Maloney
Mr. Forrest Edward Mars
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon I. Matzkin Sandra and David Mayhocd Herbert S. and Patrice Miller Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Michael X. Morrell Gordon and Diane Myers Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Myers
fr, and Mrs. William c. Pal Mrs. Charles Emory phiiadse * Mrs. Mildred Poretsky Mr. and Mrs. Robert Raven Benjamin T. Rome John H. Safer Mr. and Mrs. Benno C. Schmidt Mr. and Mrs. Larry G. Settle Peggy and David Shiffrin Mrs. Louise M. Simons Sharon R. Simons General and Mrs. W.Y. Smith
r. and Mrs. Robert W. Stewart Mr. John Stimac
Dick and Jane Stoker
Bernard Stopak, M.D. and Carolyn Stopak
Joy Carter Sundlun
Carolyn Krell Tanner
Riley K. Temple
Mary Pat Toups
Mosc “arc. Mics. LnOhtaAs) OlLrLon John A. Waters
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Williams Dr. and Mrs. William R. Wilson Stanley Oliver Zell
an nA

<<<Page: 63>>>

Sponsoring Members
Althea Woodland Nursing Home American Medical Association Mrs. Paul S. Anderson
Deborah W. Baker
Goldene and Herschel Blumberg Mr. and Mrs. David K. Booth Carter and Melissa Cafritz
Mo jand Mrs. John C. Cams
Mr. and Mrs. Cummins Catherwcod Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Conley Credit Union National Association, Inc. William and Miyoko Dillon
Clara L. Adams Ender
Reverend H. Albion Ferrell Benno M. Gerson
James W. Gurley
Mr. and Mrs. Vico Henriques Mary B. Hevener
Dr. Lois M. Hoskins
Mark and Anastasia Joelson
Me. and. Mrs. Joseph L. Kir! Henry W. Kramer, Jr.
Helen Sperry Lea Foundation Russell Cc. Lindner
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Martinisko Edward J. Mathias
Mr. and Mrs. G. Wilson Miller Lucile D. Nelson
Mr. and Mrs. Eli Nisenfeld
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Norton Linda R. Potter
Lipman and Vivien Redman
Jose I. Ricard, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. W.E. Roehl Peggy-Grace Plourd Rubp
Eugene Sarnort
Roger and Susanne Schlaifer Carol and David Schwartz
Samuel Shapiro & Company, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Sheppard Joseph A. Sickles
Mr. Michael Teigen
Fereniki Ward
Dr. and Mrs. Julian L.D. Weaver Harriet Weltman
Edward B. Wilber
Trisha Wilson
Mrs. Jack Wrather
Judy and Leo Zickler

<<<Page: 64>>>

1987 Corporate Fund Leadership CHAIRMAN
Theodore F. Brophy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer GTE Corporation
John F. Akers Chairman of the Board IBM Corporation
H. Brewster Atwater, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer General Mills, Inc.
Stephen D. Bechtel, Jr. Chairman of the Board Bechtel Group, Inc.
John F. Bookout President Shell Oil Companies
John-H: Bryan, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sara Lee Corporation
James E. Burke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Johnson & Johnson
John L. Clendenin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer BellSouth Corporation
Lodwrick M. Cook Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Atlantic Richfield Company
Donald’ ly’. *Craib, JL. Chairman, Retired Allstate Insurance Company
Jonn J. Creedon President and Chief Executive Officer Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

<<<Page: 65>>>

Thomas H. Cruikshank President and Chief Executive Officer Halliburton Company
James L. Ferguson Chairman, Executive Committee General Foods Corporation
Roberto’ C. Goizueta Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Coca-Cola Company
John R. Hall Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ashland O21, Ine.
Richard E. Heckert Chairman and Chief Executive Officer E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co.
Edward L. Hennessy, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Allied-Signal Inc.
William R. Howell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
David T. Kearns Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Xerox Corporation
James L. Ketelsen Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tenneco Inc.
Robert D. Kilpatrick Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CIGNA Corporation
Charles F. Knight Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Emerson Electric Company
Duane R. Kullberg Managing Partner--Chief Executive Officer Arthur Andersen & Co.
Howard M. Love Chairman and Chief Executive Officer National Intergroup Inc.

<<<Page: 66>>>

William G. McGowan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MCI Communications Corporation
Ruben F. Mettler Chairman and Chief Executive Officer RW anc.
E. James Morton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company
Jack Moseley Chairman and Chief Executive Officer USF&G Corporation
Allen E. Murray Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mobil Corporation
James E. Olson Chairman and Chief Executive Officer American Telephone and Telegraph Campany
Donald E. Petersen Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ford Motor Company
Edmund. T... Pratt, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Piazer[ne
James D. Robinson III Chairman and Chief Executive Officer American Express Company
William A. Schreyer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Merrill Lyneh “& ‘Co.
Jonn G. Smale Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Procter & Gamble Company
John F. Welch, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer General Electric Company
SECRETARY Harold Burson
Chairman of the Board Burson-Marsteller

<<<Page: 67>>>

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES General Trustees
Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman John R. Stevenson
Ruth Carter Stevenson
Robert H. Smith
Alexander M. Laughlin
Trustees Ex Officio
William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States George P. Shultz, Secretary of State
James A. Baker III, Secretary of the Treasury
Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Honorary Trustee Paul Mellon Trustee Emeritus
Carlisle H. Humelsine
Board of Trustees
William J. Baroody, Jr., Chairman
Robert A. Mosbacher, Vice Chairman
Robert McC. Adams Dwayne 0. Andreas James A. Baker III Theodore C. Barreaux James H. Billington Otis R. Bowen
Frank G. Burke
Lynne V. Cheney Gertrude Himmelfarb Max M. Kampelman
Den Walard Marriott. JT. John S. Reed
George P. Shultz Charles Z. Wick

<<<Page: 68>>>

Appendix 2 Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1986, through September 30, 1987
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Conference for special Daedalus issue on India.
American Foundation for the Blind, New York, New York. Workshop on cross-cultural issues in rehabilitation (India).
American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago. Illinois. Continued support for administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; Archives and Research Center for Ethnamusicology.
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. Archeological research in Karnataka (India).
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Land use and vegetation changes in south and southeast Asia, 1800 1980 A.D. (India and Burma).
Freer Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. and University of Chicago, Chicago, Tilinois. Garden, city, and empire: the historical geography of Mughal Lahore (Pakistan).
Indo-U.S. Subcammission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Indo-American fellowship program.
Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, Washington, D. C. National Cultural Festival (India).
Social Science Research Council, New York, New York. Conference on agricultural terminologies; workshop on public culture in the late twentieth century (India).
Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts. South Asia and world capitalism conference (India).
University of California, Berkeley, Califormia. Excavations at Opovo-Bajbuk (Yugoslavia); archeological investigations at Harappa, Pakistan.
University of Califormia, Los Angeles, Califormia. Sikh studies conference.
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. The religious significance of horses in India: tests on the horse sacrifice and on the care of horses.
University of Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts. Conference on numismatics and archeology (India).
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Ajanta caves seminar (India).

<<<Page: 69>>>

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Muslim intelligentsia in the 18th century: intellectuals' response to the crisis of change in north India (Pakistan) .
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Excavation at Arikamedu (India); Reame and India, the sea trade conference.
University of Texas, Austin, Texas. Formative aspects of Burmese civilization.
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Telugu folklore conference, conference on old problems, new perspectives in archeology (India).
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Virginia. Epigraphic of the tambs at Assiut, Egypt.
Bethel College, North Newton, Kansas. Change in the structure of an amphibian assemblage in a changing agricultural ecosystem in rural Grissa after thirty years (India).
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Late Miocene hominoids and the origins of haminidae: paleabiology and paleoenvironments (Pakistan).
Howard University, Washincton, D. C. Cenozoic manmals and biostratigraphy of Pakistan.
Lamont—Doherty Geological Observatory, Palisades, New York. Paleoclimatic and paleoenvirommental changes in Asia during the last 4 million years, a symposium at Ahmedabad, India.
Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan. Camparative studies of dance orientation and vision in the Asian honey bees (India).
National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Botanical research (India)
National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C. Genetic analyses of captive lions (India); International symposium on primates.
University of Guam, Mangilao, Guam. Effect of natural enemies on Chromolaena odorata and Eupatorium adenophorum and their influence on the native vegetation of India.
University of Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts. Conference on agroforestry for rural needs (India).
University of North Carolina, Morehead City, North Carolina. Biology, ecology and systematics of sharks of the east and Coramondal coasts of India.

<<<Page: 70>>>

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Geochemical and geochronological studies on mafic volcanic rocks fram the central and eastem Himalaya, India.
Radio Astronamy Observatory, Socorro, New Mexico. Observations of cosmic hydrogen and deuterium and development of a spectral line capability for a new Indian radio telescope.
Smithsonian Astrophsysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. CC studies (India).
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Early Miocene chronology (Pakistan) ; meteorites and the origin of the solar system conference (India) .
University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. ISCA/AAAS Joint Scientific Seminar at Bangalore, India.
University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska. Quaternary stratigraphy and chronology, Nanga Parbat and Karakoram Himalaya (Pakistan).
Discovery Place, Charlotte, North Carolina. Museum education exchanges (India) .
Indo-U.S. Subcammission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Joint programs (India).
National Museum of American History, Washington, D. C. History of science training workshop (India).
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. Artists' books, U.S.A.; museum outreach conference; wamen and the Constitution conference; 12th Sarabhai memorial lecture series (India).

<<<Page: 71>>>

L7p’768’ g'Bt Lbo'stz 0Z0’6hz’ BSE‘ PPE 4 T 9 7] € ’ ety Isp’z 88 T9 €0O€E 688 '719'Z eee ct ae ad ece’OSL’ Ez ave? PI8‘6h0'Z 18°61 TE SE 19 62 S 988/'L ETO’88b‘Z T69’EZ 897'82 LLO'GSE 608 Sct L GT9’E6F GS9‘09T'T 18h ‘Tos Ove ’st LGE” ET 6L6'88P 6L9'STT'T EOE B71 Sey ott ate Gz8’6h0'T p6S‘92 p68 ‘PI €ze’B8z T98’7L9 bo6’6EL 189‘9TT ee 686’'8ZI'T 917‘97 6££'0Z2 B8LE’9bT P6S ‘OLE OPE‘’SL 899’GET ee 780'0Z EGE UI G9E’9T 16S Sbz 6ST ‘8b 608 '98 sees 716 ‘82 90007 THS‘SZE BIE Tp LTv 6) eae CLT VE 9TO‘ETH CEE 267 B6L'SE eee STRIO”d AzetrTeo €0P’O6P 96L‘ItP 00S’°99 L86T pees yoTMuSYy Azetteo 88S’Z6E TOPLEL OT8‘ES 1a} 4Te az Ort’ EEE’ pes aaoda: — 9A aa 6 ae res requisoed pue J4Av TOTTeD uTPT Ta 6 89 18 TSquUeAON Geo OU: sti epeds REP LIN 6 ST a pue iaTw A204STH uTpttna oO TernjeNn seTiqsn Hutpttna pue ee uoTynyTW6U . erica qUuOW
Lg61 iva x |e Ost Ul IJ ul suimasn W uonnimsuy ueuosLUOSYMNUWIS O IUIS 0} SIONS! ISTA
£ xipuaddy

<<<Page: 72>>>

sioqztsta Auew souts
TE6‘9bL'SZ t0’rse’9
Tzo’LTS Tpp'78L 9TT‘ES6 TEE’ THB TL8‘0F8 09L'698 b60‘66P 979'0GZ 9SE’b07
TEp’ote
STeIOL
*UOTINATISUI UPTUOSYATUS SY} OF SIORTSTA TeNPTATpuT JO Aequnu Tenqoe sy ueYyR AeyhTYy st pue ‘sjzunoos AORTSTA wnesnu Jo aeyeberbhbe ey sjueseiderz Asyq ‘sAep aaTAnoesuod [TereAes uO suMaesnwW snoTreA OF Ob JO ‘AxXeTSUTAT ATeYyR UO WHEeSNnU sUO UeYQ eTOW epntouT
GSS‘PT 679‘EE0'T 6SL‘78 LSO‘ETT CVC HELL LEO‘ POT 676 ‘87I 6€8 ‘PCI Z7B8E ‘96 OSE’SHE 6Pe’LE
P6S ‘LP €€p’s9 889’EL
unosnn wnesnn JAW ueoTISJW UTOYYSATH
AzeTTe9 rTeTyoers
PL9'Db
rTe\us9 Aotdtyu uoTTTd
‘gzojyerseu
TSL‘96E €p8‘999 199'878 O0E’OZL plb’969 ThE‘ ZEL 8SL‘O6E O17’ 96T 9Z70‘LST
THC‘ OPT €S8’88z p9S‘STE
wnesnn AIOASTH ueoTIoUY
‘Te}07 puerb sus
LeL‘ET PLIT‘2T VEL‘TZ
wnesnn 39 TMOH —iedoo9
“souty [TeASANS psqQuUuNnoS 91e
‘wnesnu Jey OF SAIORTSTA TeNPTATpuT Jo Tequnu ey yOeTJeT wMesnu yore ATOZ sTeqoL
ee9’e LEE 09S‘
898 ‘7 6€8'T Tet’ 2
wnesnn pooyszoqyubTteon eTJsooPrUY
‘ALON TeqIOL purer SsTeqOL
requeydes asnbuw
Aqtne
eune
Tradw
yoren Azenaiqed L86T Aaenuec
asequsosd
Tequsaon 9861 18q0390
yqUON

<<<Page: 73>>>

Appendix 4
Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1987
Listed immediately below in the first section of this Appendix, under the heading, “Academic and Research Training Appointments,” are Predoctoral and Postdoctoral fellows, Graduate Student fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awardees and participants in special programs. This list was compiled by the Office of Fellowships and Grants. Interns, other academic appointees, and scholarly visitors are listed in the second section under the heading, “Internships and Other Appointments.” These entries were submitted by the Visitor Information and Associates Reception Center. The final section in this Appendix lists academic, research training, and internship appointments submitted by bureaus, offices, and divisions of the Smithsonian Institution and may contain some duplication.
The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appointees are provided access to the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources. The awardees, listed in this Appendix by bureau, office, or division, began their residencies between October 1, 1986 and September 30, 1987. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral fellows, Graduate Student fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awards and participants in special programs are so listed. The entries include the institution where the Fellow received or expects to receive the degree, or the home institution of the Visiting Scientist or Scholar and other special appointees. A brief description of the project to be undertaken at the Smithsonian is included where appropriate. The fellow’s or visitor’s Smithsonian advisor and dates of tenure are also listed.
Penny Joy Bealle, Graduate Student Fellow, Cornell University. "Introduction of Modern Art to New York (1905-1939) : Its Reception and Influence," with Garnett McCoy, from January 5, 1987 to March 13, 1987.
Jill Pearlman, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Chicago. "Educating the Modern Architect : Joseph Hudnut and the Emergence of the New American Architect (1933-1953)," with Garnett McCoy, from September 14, 1987 to November 20, 1987.

<<<Page: 74>>>

Wheeler McIntosh Thackston, Jr., Rockefeller Fellow, Harvard University. "Timurid Sources for Art History and History of Patronage," with Milo Beach, from June 1, 1987 to May 30, 1988.
Roya Marefat, Visiting Scholar, Harvard University. "Translation and Transcription of the Persian Material in the Vever Collection of the Sackler Gallery," with Glenn Lowry, from June 1, 1987 to September 1, 1987.
David Kingery, Regents' Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Artifact Interpretation and the Rise of Pictorial Traditions in the Ceramics of 5th c. Greece, 12th c. Islam, 15th c. Italy and the Early Qing Dynasty of China : Models for the Interaction of Society and Technology," with Lambertus van Zelst and Roger Kennedy of the National Museum of American History, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
J. Emlen Myers, Visiting Scientist, State University of New York at Binghamton. "Refinement of the Typology, through Trace-Element Analyses, of 15th to l6th-century Maiolica Ceramics Excavated in Southern Spain," with James Blackman, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Hector Neff, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Santa Barbara. "Interpretive Data on the Chemical Composition of Ceramics, with Application to Ceramics from Contemporary Highland Guatemala and Late Classic Period, Palingus," with Ronald Bishop, from November 1, 1986 to October 31, 1987.
Michael Brand, Visiting Scholar, Harvard University. "Garden City, and Empire : The Historical Geography of Mughal Lahore," with Milo Beach, from June 1, 1987 to September 30 1987.
Matthew Kercher, Predoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. "The Caligraphy of Pa-ta Shan-jen (1626-1705)," with Shen C.Y. Fu, from September 21, 1987 to September 20, 1988.
John Alan Siewert, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "The "Nocturnes' of James McNeill Whistler," with Linda Merrill, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

<<<Page: 75>>>

Jan Stuart, Visiting Scholar, Princeton University. "Research and Cataloguing of the l6th-century Zhe School Painting," with Shen C.Y:. Fu, from April 15, 1987 to April 14, 1988.
Emmie Donadio, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "The Art and Life of Richard Stankiewicz, American Sculptor," with Valerie Fletcher, from September 15, 1987 to March 15, 1988.
Dietlinde Ulrike Luitgard Hamburger, Predoctoral Fellow, Kassel University. "Research on Carl Grossberg : A Bauhaus-trained Painter," with Judith Zilczer, from March 1, 1987 to February 28, 1988.
Ronald S. Brashear, Predoctoral Fellow, The Johns Hopkins University. "The History of Infrared Astronomy, 1880-1960," with Joseph Tatarewicz, from September 15, 1987 to September 14, 1988.
Ronald E. Doel, Guggenheim Predoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. "Development of Planetary Astronomy, 1945-1965," with Joseph Tatarewicz, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Emil Edward Friberg, Jr., Graduate Student Fellow, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "A Study of the Impact of the Federal Government Policy on the Growth of the U. S. Computer Industry," with Paul Ceruzzi, from June 15, 1987 to August 21, 1987.
C. Vance Haynes, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona. "Geochronology of Quaternary Climatic Change, Eastern Saharan Egypt and Sudan," with Ted A. Maxwell, from August 15, 1987 to December 15, 1987.
Eric Schatzberg, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "The Design of Aircraft and Structures : Sikorsky Seaplanes as a Case Study," with Howard Wolko, from June 1, 1987 to August 7,1987.
Ebenezer N.O. Quarcoopome, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California at Los Angeles. "Regalia and Patterns of Leadership in the Dahomey Gap of West Africa," with Roy Sieber, from June 29, 1987 to September 4, 1987.

<<<Page: 76>>>

Ramona Marie Austin, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Staffs of Authority and Mediation: The Kongo and Ngoyo Origins of AfroAmerican Conjuring Canes and Walking Sticks," with Lynda Hartigan, from October 15, 1986 to October 14, 1987.
Gerald Lawrence Caziz, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "British Influences on American Art, 1837-1887," with William Truettner, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Wanda Corn, Regent's Fellow, Stanford University. "Cultural Nationalism in Post World War I American Art," with Charles Eldredge, from December 15, 1986 to December 14, 1987.
Carolivia Herron, Faculty Fellow, Harvard University. "Fundamental Backgrounds in Afro-American Visual Arts," with Lynda Hartigan, from July 1, 1987 to August 31, 1987.
Joni Louise Kinsey, Predoctoral Fellow, Washington University. "Creating a Sense of Place : Thomas Moran and the Surveying of the American West," with William Truettner, from July 15, 1987 to July 14, 1987.
Mary Panzer, Predoctoral Fellow, Boston University. "Photography and the Reception of Realism in America, 1850-1900," with William Truettner, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Susan Noyes Platt, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. "Examining Concepts of Modernism in the 1930's, with a Focus on Hans Hofman," with Judith Zilczer, from January 1, 1987 to June 30, 1987.
Susan M. Sivard, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "The Volcano as Image and Symbol in 19th-century American Art," with William Truettner, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Nancy Bercaw, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "Emergence of Victorian Handicrafts and Fancywork as They Relate to Women's Status and Growth of Consumer Goods," with Gary Kulik, from June 8, 1987 to August 14, 1987.
Beth Alice Bullard, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "Women Playing Musical Instruments in 19th-century America : An Iconographic Study," with Cynthia Hoover, from August 15, 1987 to August 14, 1988.
ON oO

<<<Page: 77>>>

Terrence Epperson, Predoctoral Fellow, Temple University. "Thus in the Beginning All the World was America : Class Formation and the Social Construction of Race in the Chesapeake, 1676-1740," with Barbara Clark Smith, from September 14, 1987 to September 13, 1988.
Miriam Formanek-Brunell, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. "The American Doll Industry, 1890-1930," with Rodris Roth, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Charles M. Haines, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. "A Study of the Causes and Effects of the Industrialization of Wood," with Robert Post, from September 9, 1987 to September 8, 1988.
Marybeth Hamilton, Predoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. "'When I'm Bad I'm Better,' The Rise of Mae West," with Carl Scheele, from June 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Christine Hoepfner, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "Of Popular Interest The Past and the Public National and Personal Identity and the Smithsonian Historical Collections," with Gary Kulik and Barbara Clark Smith, from September 8, 1987 to September 7, 1988.
Alexander Gustave Keller, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Cambridge University. "Mechanics, Mathematics and Machines in the Age of the Renaissance," with Silvio Bedini, from February 1, 1987 to September 30, 1987.
David Kingery, Regents' Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Artifact Interpretation and the Rise of Pictorial Traditions in the Ceramics of 5th c. Greece, 12th c. Islan, 15th c. Italy and the Early Qing Dynasty of China : Models for the Interaction of Society and Technology," with Roger Kennedy and Lambertus van Zelst of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Lynne Elizabeth Kirby, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at Los Angeles. "The Railroad and the Cinema : 1895-1929," with William Withuhn, from October 1, 1986 to March 31, 1987.
Sally Gregory Kohlstedt, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois. "A Study of Natural History Museums in 19th-century U.S.," with Arthur Molella, from January 1, 1987 to April 30, 1987.
Michael O'Brien, Graduate Student Fellow, Catholic University. "A Documentary Study of Clavichords in the Smithsonian Collection," with John Fesperman, from July 6, 1987 to September 11, 1987.
Michael Hugh O'Malley, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley. "Popular Conceptions of Time in America, 1850-1920," with Carlene Stephens, from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.
Kathy L. Peiss, Postdoctoral Fellow, Brown University. "Face Value
Cosmetics, Gender and Consumption in Twentieth-century American Society," with Barbara Melosh, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.

<<<Page: 78>>>

Steven C. Reber, Predoctoral Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "A Comparative Study of Ceramics Manufactories in Britain and France during the 18th Century," with Susan Myers, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
David Reed, Predoctoral Fellow, University of London. "Development of the Modern Magazine in America, Britain, and France, 1880-1960," with Elizabeth Harris, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Linda Shopes, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "A Study of the Canning Industry in Baltimore, 1860-1960," with G. Terry Sharrer, from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.
Nina Silber, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley. "The Image of the South in Northern Culture," with Pete Daniel, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Julie H. Weiss, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University. "Popularization of the Psychoanalytic Definitions of Women, 1925-1963," with Spencer Crew and Edith Mayo, from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.
Jeannie Whayne, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at San Diego. "Reshaping the Rural South : Land, Labor, and Federal Policy in Poinsett County, Arkansas, 1900-1940," with Pete Daniel, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Paula Faye Bienenfeld, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York at Binghamton. "Functional Analysis of African Late Stone Age Tools," with Dennis Stanford, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Vagn F. Buchwald, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Copenhagen. "A Study of Iron Meteorites in the Smithsonian Collections, Particularly those Collected in the Antarctic during the 1980's," with Roy Clarke, from September 1, 1987 to January 31, 1988.
Peter Cannell, Postdoctoral Fellow, City University of New York. "Avian Anatomy and Systematics," with Richard Zusi, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Laurel Smith Collins, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "The Effect of Environment on Morphologic Variation within a Benthic Foraminiferal Species," with Martin A. Buzas, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
John D. Damuth, Visiting Scientist, Yale University. "Development of a Computerized Database on Paleoecology for the Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems Program," with Anna Kay Behrensmeyer, from December 1, 1986 to September 30, 1988.

<<<Page: 79>>>

Denise Decker, Visiting Student, Shippensburg University. "The Phylogenetics of Procynids," with Wallace Wozencraft, from June 1, 1987 to June 30, 1987.
Mary Adelaide Evins, Visiting Student, University of Chicago. "Neutron Activation Analysis from Archeological Ceramics from the Karababa Basin, Southeastern Turkey, 4th and 3rd Millenia B.C.," with Robert Mc. Adams, from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.
John Washburn Fisher, Jr., Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley. "Analysis of Faunal Remains from the Lamb Spring Archeological Site, Colorado," with Dennis Stanford, from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.
Gayle Jeannine Fritz, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "Analysis of Archeobotanical Remains from the Toltec Site and Other Sites in the Lower Mississippi River Valley for Research on the Evolution of Agriculture," with Bruce Smith, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Robert J. Hard, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New Mexico. "Analysis of Tarahumara Field Data Focusing on Ethnoarcheological Work," with William Merrill, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Suzette Heald, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of London. "Two African Modes of Being : Society and Person Among the Gim and Teso of East Africa," with Ivan Karp, from December 15, 1986 to December 14, 1987.
Timothy Howard Heaton, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. "Patterns of Evolution in the Fossil Rodent Ischyromys from Oligocene Deposits of the Great Plains of North America," with Robert J. Emry, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.
Mark Alan Hershkovitz, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at Davis. " Leaf Architecture and Phylogeny in the Centrospermae," with Joan W. Nowicke, from December 15, 1986 to December 14, 1987.
Martin Joel, Graduate Student Fellow, Duke University. "Creek Indians and the Eighteenth-century Deer-skin Trade," with William Fitzhugh, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.
Naomi N. Kipury, Predoctoral Fellow, Temple University. "Social Change and Gender Among Maasai Women," with Ivan Karp, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Jean M. Kozul, Graduate Student Fellow, Rutgers University. "The Chemistry and Petrology of the HED Achondrites," with Glenn MacPherson, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.
~I i)

<<<Page: 80>>>

Benjamin Ray Kracht, Graduate Student Fellow, Southern Methodist University. "Religious Syncetism Among the Kiowas," with Ives Goddard, from June 8, 1987 to August 14, 1987.
Stephen Loring, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Massachusetts at Amherst. "The Archaeology and Ethnography of the Late Indian Population of Labrador : A Social Perspective," with William Fitzhugh, from June 22, 1987 to August 28, 1987.
Paula Marie Mabee, Postdoctoral Fellow, Duke University. "The Interrelationship of Elassoma and the Role of Paedomorphosis in its Evolution," with G. David Johnson, from May 1, 1987 to Aprilx30; 19838
Susan Jo Mazer, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Davis. "The Analysis of Ecological Correlates of Interspecific Seed Weight Variation," with Scott Wing, from January 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.
Frank H.L. McCormick, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Oklahoma. "Geographic Variation and Zoogeography of the Rainbow Darter, Etheostroma caeruleum," with Leslie Knapp, from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.
Thomas Allan Munroe, Postdoctoral Fellow, William and Mary College. "A Phylogenetic Study of the Flatfish Suborder, Soleoidea," with Richard Vari, from January 15, 1987 to January 14, 1988.
Madhav Nagarkar, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Poona. "On Asian Species of Thelotremataceae, Their Relatives in the New World Tropics, and Cladistic Classification of the Family," with Mason Hale, from September 14, 1987 to September 13, 1988.
Richard Terence O'Grady, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of British Columbia. "A Phylogenetic Study of the Co-evolution between Crocodilians and Some of their Nematode Gut Parasites," with W. Duane Hope, from April 1, 1987 to March 31, 1988.
Thomas Pape, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Copenhagen. "A Systematic-Taxonomic Revision of Blaesoxopha Loew," with Wayne Mathis, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Esther Peters, Visiting Scientist, University of Rhode Island. "Review of the Invertebrate Neoplasia Cases of Comparative Histopathology," with John Harshbarger, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Michael D. Petraglia, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New Mexico. "Natural Formation Processes and the Archeological Record," with Richard Potts, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
John James Pipoly III, Postdoctoral Fellow, City University of New York. "Phylogenetic Systematics and Biogeography of the Genus Cybianthus (Myrsinaceae)," with Vicki A. Funk, from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.

<<<Page: 81>>>

Ruth Pamela Reed, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Miami. "Occurrence and Characterization of Fine-grained Carbonate Precipatates," with Ian MacIntyre, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Scott Schaefer, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Chicago. "Phyletic Relationships of Scoloplax," with Stanley Weitzman, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Shi Xiaoying, Postdoctoral Fellow, Beijing Graduate School of Geology. "Jurassic Brachiopod Fauna, Systematic and Paleobiogeography," with Richard Grant, from February 1, 1987 to January 31, 1988.
Darrell J. Siebert, Postdoctoral Fellow, City University of New York. "Interrelationships within the Family Cyprinidae," with Richard Vari, from September 1,1987 to August 31, 1988.
Irene Silverblatt, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "Andean Symbols of Colonization : The History of Santiago and the Peruvian Mountain Gods," with William Merrill, from August 15 1987 -to July °o31,<1988°.
Claudia Sobrevilla, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Phylogenetic Studies of the Subtribe Espeletiinae," with Vicki Funk, from March 1, 1987 to February 28, 1988.
Christopher K. Starr, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Georgia. "Phylogeny of Stenogastrine Wasps," with Karl V. Krombein, from June 17, 1987 to June 16, 1988.
Bruno Thomas, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Paris. "Study of the Sediments of Cores Located West of Lake Manzala in the Eastern Nile Delta," with Daniel J. Stanley, from October 26, 1986 to April 30, 1987.
Debra Ann Willard, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Illinois. "Correlation of Lycospora with Lycopod Cones : Compressions and Anatomically Preserved Cones in Coal Balls," with William A. DiMichele, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.
Barbara Day, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Irvine. "Political Figures in Popular Art of the Early National Period," with Wendy Wick Reaves, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

<<<Page: 82>>>

Andrew Baker, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "The Ecological and Evolutionary Basis of Group Living and Cooperative Breeding in the Golden Lion Tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia)," with Devra Kleiman, from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.
Theodore J. Grand, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley. "Patterns of Growth in the African Bovidae," with Richard Montali, from June 1, 1987 to March 15, 1988.
Susan M. Haig, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Dakota. "Population Management of Guam Rails and Micronesian Kingfishes," with Scott Derrickson, from September 1, 1987 to August 31,1988.
Sara J. Iverson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "Comparative Study of Milk Liquids and Neonatal Gastric Lipid Digestion in Three Species of Pinnipeds," with Olav T. Oftedal, from February 1, 1987 to January 31, 1988.
Ann Miller, Predoctoral Fellow, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. "Factors Influencing In Vitro Fertilization of the Domestic Cat," with David Wildt, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Sriyanie Miththapala, Graduate Student Fellow, Smith College. "Genetic Variation in Island Leopards," with John Seidensticker, from June 29, 1987 to September 4, 1987.
Michael L. Power, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley. "An Investigation of Food Transit Time and Digestive Efficiency in the Callitrichidae," with Benjamin Beck, from August: 1 ,19872ito. July 31, 1988.
Steven McLeod Bedford, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "Photographs of Work by John Russell Pope," with Cynthia Field, from November 1, 1986 to April 30, 1987.

<<<Page: 83>>>

Harihar Prasad Bhattarai, Graduate Student Fellow, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "Research for the Development and Presentation of a Nepalese Folk Life Festival," with Richard Kurin, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.
Olivia Cadaval-Bosserman, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. "Performance and Ethnic Identity : The Festival of American Folklife and the Washington D.C. Latino Festival," with Peter Seitel, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Ruma Ahmad-Mirza, James E. Webb Fellow, Georgetown University. With Kathy Harmon, from September 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.
Gianluigi Bodo, Visiting Scientist, University of Torino. "Thermal Instabilities in Magnetic Flux Tubes," with Robert Rosner, from May 9, 1987 to June 7, 1987.
Joao Braga, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. “Experimental Research in High Energy Astrophysics," with Stephen Murray, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Leonardo Bronfman, Visiting Scientist, Columbia University. "Molecular Clouds in the Galaxy, North and South," with Patrick Thaddeus, from February 2 to March 14, 1987 and from August 8 to September 30, 1987.
Patricia Carral-Davila, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley. "Study of the Activity in the Nuclei of 'Normal' Galaxies," with Paul Ho, James Moran, and Mark Reid, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Bruce Carney, Short Term Visitor, University of North Carolina. "Halo Binaries," with David Latham, from August 6, 1987 to August 20, 1987.
Tomasz Chlebowski, Visiting Scientist, Warsaw University Observatory. "The X-Ray Properties of Hot Stars; X-Ray Spectroscopy of Cyg X1; X-Ray and Optical Observations of HL CMa," with Harvey Tananbaum, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

<<<Page: 84>>>

Ara Chutjian, Visiting Scientist, California Institute of Technology. "Measuring the Absolute Cross Section for the Dielectronic Recombination Process in Triply Ionized Carbon," with John Kohl, from September 7, 1987 to September 25, 1987.
John Cowan, Visiting Scientist, University of Oklahoma. "The Nucleosynthetic Production of Heavy Nuclei in Evolved Stars," with George Rybicki and A.G.W. Cameron, from August 1, 1987 to September 30, 1987.
Ian Evans, Visiting Scientist, Space Telescope Science Institute. "Computer Photoionization/Shock-modelling of Astrophysically Interesting Cases of High Density Plasmas," with John Raymond, from July 5, 1987 to July 31, 1987.
Guido Garay, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. "Analysis and Publication of Radio Astronomical Data," with James Moran and Patrick Thaddeus, from May 13, 1987 to June 12, 1987.
William R.S. Garton, Visiting Scientist, York University. "The Use of Synchronton Light for VUV Spectroscopy of Molecules such as CO," with W.H. Parkinson, from May 16, 1987 to May 27, 1987.
Gerard Gillanders, Predoctoral Fellow, University College, Dublin. "The Detection of Ultra-High Energy Gama Rays from Cygnus X-3 and Other Possible Sources such as Hercules X-l1," with Trevor Weekes, from January 1, 1987 to August 31, 1987.
Patrick Hartigan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona. "Studies of T Taurus Stars," with Irwin Shapiro, from August 1, 1987 to July 31, 1988.
Thomas Hartquist, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. "Modelling of Dense Molecular Photodissociation Zones and Interstellar Hydroxyl Masers," with Alex Dalgarno, from February 2, 1987 to February 28, 1987.
Philip Judge, Visiting Scientist, Oxford University. "Calculating Model Stellar Atmospheres Based on Sulphur Atomic Data," with Eugene H. Avrett, from July 18, 1987 to August 10, 1987.
Laurent Koechlin, Visiting Scientist, University of Paris. "Development of Image Processing Techniques for Interference Fringe Detection," with Peter Nisenson, Wesley Traub, and Michael Shao, from November 1, 1986 to April 30, 1988.
Lawrence Krauss, Visiting Scientist, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "The Interface of Elementary Particle Physics and
Cosmology/Astrophysics," with Alan Lightman, from November 1, 1986
to April 30, 1988.
Ping-wai Kwok, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona. "Observational and Experimental High Energy Cosmic Gamma Rays Using Atmospheric Cherenkov Technique," with Trevor Weekes, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

<<<Page: 85>>>

John Laird, Short Term Visitor, University of North Carolina. "Derivation of Metallicities Using Low Signal-to-Noise Digital Spectra," with David Latham, from August 2, 1987 to August ll, 1987.
Yun-gang Liu, Short Term Visitor, Oklahoma State University. "A Study on the Relationship between Chandralls and CAI's in Meteorites," with John A. Wood, from August 18, 1987 to September 14, 1987.
Patrick K. MacKeown, Visiting Scientist, University of Hong Kong. "Cosmic Ray Air Shower Physics," with Irwin Shapiro, from September 1, 1987 to September 15, 1987.
Pablo Mauas, Predoctoral Fellow, Universidad de Buenos Aires. "Study of Si I Overionization and the Influence of the CO Molecule in the Radiative Balance of Chromospheric Levels," with Eugene Avrett, from November 1, 1986 to November 30, 1988.
Zdzislaw Musielak, Short Term Visitor, University of Gdansk. "Study of Wave Generation and Propagation in the Solar Interior and
Outer Atmosphere," with Leon Golub, from July 4, 1987 to July 8, 1987.
Paul Reynolds, Visiting Student, University College, Dublin. "Development of a Gamma Ray Trigger at the Whipple Observatory," with Trevor Weekes, from January 7, 1987 to April 15, 1987.
Barbara Ryder, Postdoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. "Calculations of the Properties of the Distribution of Galaxies which Form Random Phase Perturbation," with Irwin Shapiro, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Steven Saar, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Colorado. "A Detailed Study of Magnetic Fields in Late-type Dwarfs," with Leon Golub, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Zdenek Sekanina, Short Term Visitor, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California. "Cometary Science in the Post Halley Era," with B.G. Marsden, from August 25, 1987 to August 28, 1987.
Amiel Sternberg, Visiting Scientist, Columbia University. "Infrared Response of a Dense Gas to an Intense Radiation Field," with Alex Dalgarno, from February 1, 1987 to October 15, 1987.
P. Venkatakrishnan, Visiting Scientist, Bangalore University. "Solar Magnetic Flux Tubes; Interferometry; Helioseismology," with Robert Noyes and Peter Nisenson, from October 29, 1986 to December 10, 1986.
Christopher Barkan, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York at Albany. "The Effect of Social Status and Competition on Chickadee Foraging Ecology," with James Lynch, from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.

<<<Page: 86>>>

Martin Posey, Visiting Scientist, University of Oregon. "The Effects of Predation by Grass Shrimp on the Composition of Benthic Communities," with Anson Hines, from August 1, 1987 to July 31, 1988.
Parke A. Rublee, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, North Carolina State University. "The Microbial Loop in the Rhode River Estuary Role of Microzooplankton and the Effect of Suspended Sediments on Microzooplankton Predation," with Charles Gallegos, from June 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Michael Anthony Shirley, Graduate Student Fellow, North Carolina State University. "Selective Pressures Affecting Habitat Selection by Premolt Male and Prepubertal Female Blue Crabs During Ecdysis," with Anson Hines, from June 2, 1987 to August 7, 1987.
Mark Southerland, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina. "Behavioral Ecology of Coexisting Generalist Ant Species," with James Lynch, from January 1, 1987 to June 30, 1987.
John Kilar, Postdoctoral Fellow, Dalhousie University. "Functional Morphology of Sargassum polycertium," with Mark Littler and Diane Littler, from December 1, 1986 to November 30, 1987.
Jaime Cavalier, Noyes Fellow, University of Cambridge. "The Cost of Growth and Maintenance of Fine-root Systems in Tropical Mountain and Lowland Rainforests," with Alan Smith, from August 15, 1987 to March 15, 1988.
Jae Chun Choe, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Social Evolution and Mating System in Zoraptera," with William Eberhard, from October 15, 1986 to May 15, 1988.
William James Davis, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. “Study of Parental Investment Strategies in Neotropical Kingfishers," with Martin Moynihan, from December 1, 1986 to November 30, 1987.
Philip DeVries, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. "The Biology and Evolution of an Association, and Nectar Feeding in Larval Rionid Butterflies," with Donald Windsor and Steven Hubbell, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Theodore Robert Dudley, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cambridge. "Aerodynamics of Butterfly flight," with Neal Smith, from May 1, 1987 to April 30, 1988.

<<<Page: 87>>>

Andrew Green, Graduate Student Fellow, Oxford University. "Does Foraging Success Determine the Mating Success of Male Tungara
Frogs?," with Stanley Rand, from July 7, 1987 to September 11, 1987.
Kevin Patrick Hogan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois. "The Effects of Sunflects on Growth and Survival of Tropical Tree Seedlings," with Alan Smith and Steven Hubbell, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
David John Hughes, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wales. "Genetic and Environmental Correlates of Polymorphism in Marine Cheilostome Bryozoa," with J.B.C. Jackson, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.
Roberto Ibanez, Noyes Fellow, University of Connecticut. "The Reproductive Behavior and Energetics of Glass Frogs, Genus Centrolenella," with A.Stanley Rand, from May 1, 1987 to April 30, 1988.
Dominique Irvine, Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford University. "Examination of the Regional Variation in Indigenous Resource Management by the Runa Indians of the Ecuadorian Amazon," with Olga Linares, from February 1, 1987 to January 31, 1988.
Jane Molofsky, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Illinois. "The Effect of Litterfall on Germination of Neotropical Tree Seedlings," with S. Joseph Wright, from June 6, 1987 to August 7, 1987.
Giselle Mora, Noyes Fellow, University of Florida. "Exclusive Male Parental Care in the Harvestmen Zygopachilus albomarginus (Arachnida Opiliones : Gonyleptidae)," with Donald Windsor,
from July 1, 1987 to December 31, 1988.
Steven Gaines Morgan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "Field and Lab Studies of Reproductive and Larval Ecology of Brachyuran Crabs," with John Christy, from December 1, 1986 to November 30, 1987.
Anthony Ranere, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Davis. "Environment, Human Settlement and Subsistence in the Seasonal Tropics of Central Panama : The Last 10,000 Years," with Richard G. Cooke, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Hugh Sweatman, Postdoctoral Fellow, MacGuire University. "Predatory
Behavior of Some Coral Reef Fishes," with Ross Robertson, from March 1, 1987 to February 29, 1988.

<<<Page: 88>>>

The Smithsonian offers internships and other appointments to visiting undergraduate and graduate students, and museum professionals. The interns—listed by bureau or office—in this Appendix began their appointments between October 1, 1986 and September 30, 1987. Holders Bf eel awards and participants in special programs are so listed. Where possible, the institutions attended, a Huet desenoeon of the project undertaken, and the duration of appointment are given for each intern.
Kim Connor, High School. Exhibits Department, assisted in the development and process of an exhibit, produced materials and displays, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Marion A. Gill, Bachelors Candidate, Fisk University. Design and Exhibits Departments, assisted with graphic drawings and location of vendors for
"Climbing Jacob's Ladder...” exhibit; helped to schedule videos and c
acob s Ladder..." exhibit; helped to schedule videos and coordinate flyer and invitation printing; helped organize a museum design office, March 3, 1987 through July 1/7, 1987. Amy Grey, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Education Department, re-
searched origin of Juneteenth Day, how it is celebrated across the coun-
try, and suggested how a plan might be implemented for a celebration next
summer, July 6, 1987 through August 14, 1987. Isabel Mendoza, Visiting Professional, Museo del Hombre. Studied exhibition roduction techniques as practiced at large and small museums, September 29, 1987 through August 30, 1988. Reynise Mann, Bachelors Candidate. Education Department, assisted professional staff, July 12, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
James M. Huttlinger, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Searched archival files for exhibit-related information, June 12, 1987 through September 15, 1987.
Katharine D. Cheek, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut College. Department of Design and Installation, assisted in preparation of art, graphs, copy, charts, etc. for screen printing reproductions; assisted with painting of armatures and object mounts, assisted with organizational details and clean-up, June 1, 198/ through August 15, 1987.
Victoria M. Corbeil, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Assisted in cataloging American paintings, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Paul I. Song, Bachelors Degree, University of Wisconsin. Registrar's Office, cataloged curatorial records, researched and updated files, prepared related material for catalogs, and worked on database for the Sackler Gallery, June 1, 198/ through August 14, 1987.
Ellen Willenbecher, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Educa-

<<<Page: 89>>>

tion Office, worked on areas of education in cooperation with George Washington University, January 12, 1987 through May 1, 1987.
Amy L. Wright, Bachelors Degree. Assisted lighting specialist in design and installation of exhibit lighting in Sackler and Freer Galleries, unpacked and took inventory of fixtures, relamping, daily light checks, June 23, 1987 through September 28, 1987.
Michael Hicks. Museum Shops, assisted in development of displays and decorations for museum shops, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Toni Wilkerson. Museum Shops, assisted in development of displays and decorations, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Michele E. Hamill, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Paper Laboratory, com-
piled bibliography of paper conservation-related projects; conserved Vic-
torian folding screen and researched light bleaching of paper, June l, 1987 through May 31, 1988.
Laura Gail Hazlett, Bachelors Degree, University of Alberta. Textile Laboratory, assisted in conservation of 19th century American flags, May 18, 1987 through July 24, 1987.
Jeffrey C. Kimball, Masters Candidate, University of London, Institute of Archaeology. Objects Laboratory, assisted with archaeological conservation of lime plaster statues from Ain Ghazal, Jordan, July 13, 1987 through September 18, 1987.
Esther Méthé, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta. Textile Laboratory, assisted with conservation of 19th-century American flags, May 18, 1987 through July 24, 1987.
Kathryn Pease, Bachelors Candidate, Converse College. Archaeometry, studied the correlation of stylistic and physical science data dealing with Maya ceramic vessels, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Theresa Power, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware/Winterthur Museum. Objects Laboratory, assisted with conservation of George Washington statue, June 1, 1987 through July 24, 1987.
Rosemarie Selm, Bachelors Degree, student at Textile Conservation Centre, Hampton Court Palace, England. Textile Laboratory, assisted with conservation and storage of 19th century American flags, July 6, 1987 through through September 4, 1987.
Deborah Schoeps, Graduate, Instituto per Arte e i] Restauro, Florence, Italy. Paintings Laboratory, examined and treated Smithsonian collections, October 1, 1986 through April 30, 1987.
Jill Sigman, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Textile Laboratory, assisted with conservation and storage of 19th-century American flags, July 6, 1987 through September 4 1987,
Diana Alper, Masters Candidate, Columbia University. Library, surveyed rare book collection, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

<<<Page: 90>>>

Yolanda Avila, Bachelors Candidate, Rutgers University. Library, maintained rare book collection, June 8, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Betsy Biern, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Department of Textiles, assisted with collections management, January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.
Leslee Browning, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York. Programs, assisted with program administration and planning, September 16, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Bernd H. Dams, Bachelors Candidate, RWIG Aachen, Germany. Director's Office, performed publication research, October 31, 1986 through April 30, 1987.
Marianne Ertberg, Museum Professional, Danish Museum of Decorative Art. Studied collections management techniques, April 2, 1987 through May 1, 1987.
Jeanne Faton, Bachelors Degree, University of Lyon II. Department of Decorative Arts, assisted with French decorative art and furniture, October 17, 1986 through April 15, 1987.
John Febbo, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Buffalo. Exhibitions, installed exhibitions, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Elaine Glusac, Masters Candidate, University of Michigan. Development, performed management research June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Margaret Goenring, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Special Events and Department of Wallcovering, planned events and maintained collections, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Teresa M. Heady, Masters Candidate, Fashion Institute of Technology. Department of Textiles, assisted with textile conservation, December 17, 1986 through December 31, 1987.
Diane Kessler, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta. Department of Textiles, assisted with textile conservation, January 5, 1987 through September 30, 1987.
Usha Kutty, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Programs, studied the planning and administration of programs. June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987. ei
Marv Marvin, Bachelors Candidate, Moore College of Art. Department of Textiles, assisted with collection maintenance June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Juan Mila, Bachelors Candidate, Bennington College. Exhibitions, assisted in the preparation of the Gaudi Exhibition, January 5, 1987 through March 2, 1987.
Beth E. Posner, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Business Office, assisted with office administration, December 22, 1986 through January 31, 1987.
Paige Roberts, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Exhibitions, performed maps exhibition research, June 8, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Jessica Rudin, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Exhibitions, performed festivals exhibition research June 8, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Lorna Ryan, Bachelors Candidate, Camberwell School of Art. Library, assisted with the rare books collection, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Ulrike Schonfeldt, Bachelors Candidate, Freie Universitat of Berlin. Department of Drawings and Prints, assisted with collections management,
July 11, 1987 through September 15, 1987.
Sofia Vecchio, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Drawings and Prints, assisted with collection maintenance and exhibition research, June 8, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Jonn Willmann, Masters Candidate, City University of New York. Shop Opera-

<<<Page: 91>>>

tions, assisted with product development, January 15, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
Douglas W. Bell, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Division of Programs, conducted research for the Asian Pacific American Heritage Week exhibition, November 10, 1986 through March 10, 1987.
Andreanna E. Kounas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas. Office of Service and Protocol, updated profile of Smithsonian Institution international research activities published by the Directorate of International Activities, February 12, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
Maggie Mak, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College. Office of Service and Protocol, compiled foreign visitor orientation project, June 15, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Michael E. Martin, Bachelors Candidate. Division of Programs, conducted research for tropical forest exhibition June 30, 1987 through August 3, 1987.
Emily L. Carroll, Bachelors Candidate, Maryland Institute, College of Art. Department of Exhibits and Design, assisted with putting up exhibitions and also assisted in the performance of other various related duties, June 8, 1987 through August 15, 1987,
Sandra R. Donner, Foxcroft High School. Department of Education and Library, assisted professional staff in both the Education Department as well as the library, March 9, 1987 through March 27, 1987.
Elizabeth M. Klein, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Public Affairs Office, internship in public relations department, June 8, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Stefania Lucamante, Ph.D Candidate, University of Cagliari and the University of Rome. Department of Painting and Sculpture, worked on archival material, November 24, 1986 through February 20, 1987.
Mark Murray, High School. Exhibits Office, assisted in the development and process of an exhibit; produced materials and displays, June 28, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Henriette Schroder, Bachelors Degree, American University. Department of Education, conducted educational research and assisted with docent training, September 21, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Karla Smith, High School. Exhibits Office, assisted in the development and process of an exhibit; produced materials and displays, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Harriet S. Stern, Bachelors Degree, Kenyon College. Office of Education, conducted educational evaluation research, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
India Joan Swayze, High School, Madeira School. Office of Education, assisted with the docent program, September 30, 1987 through May 30, 1988.
Melissa Welch, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Department of Painting
and Sculpture, organized Armory Show papers and did curatorial research, June 8, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

<<<Page: 92>>>

Julia C. Ross, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Compiled information on Smithsonian employees, 1846-1878, May 11, 1987/7 through July 31, 1987.
Lee Anna Schwartz, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard University. Studied the Smithsonian chemical laboratory, 1846-1884, June 1, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Steven B. Stoll, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Examined Smithsonian-Patent Office relations, 1846-1878, June 1, 1987 through August 8, 1987.
Douglas G. Castenson, Visiting Professional. Collections Management, assisted with computer data base and researched educational materials, June 30, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
John Chadwick, Bachelors Degree. James Madison University. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, generated topographic profiles for lunar ridges and anticlinal ridges of the Columbia Plateau; made a systematic search for high-resolution Viking orbiter images, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
David P. Collins, High School. Office of Exhibits, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Steven Cramer, High School. Office of Exhibits, assisted professional staff, July 12, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Diane K. Froyd, Bachelors Candidate, East Carolina University. Garber Facility, Archival Support Center, reviewed literature on care, handling, and storage of large-format drawings, inventoried the Archival Support Center's drawings, and developed a plan for storage and retrieval, June 8, 1987 through August 18, 1987.
John Green, Bachelors Degree, Gallaudet University. Photo Laboratory, assisted with operation of the laboratory, May 26, 1987 through July 13, 1987.
Deidra M. Hailes, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia State College. Garber Facility, Archival Support Center, assisted with clerical duties, computer and document collections, microfilm collection; and met the public, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Charles Hyatt, High School. Langley Theater, assisted theater staff with scheduling, film projection, usher scheduling, general theater administration, and crowd control, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Joanna Karp, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Photo Laboratory, aided laboratory operations, June 2, 1987 through August 10, 1987.
Snaron J. Kelley, Bachelors Candidate. Gallaudet University. Photo Laboratory, learned photography lab techniques, January 28, 1987 through April 30, 1987.
Brian D. Larrick, Bachelors Candidate, East Carolina University. Garber Facility, Archival Support Center, reviewed reels of film in the Archives collection for content and condition, and entered findings in a microfilm index; also assisted with reference and research use of microfilm collections, June 8, 1987 through August 12, 1987.
Donna M. Lord, Masters Candidate, Georgia College. Garber Facility, Archival
Support Center, undertook preliminary processing of open reel audio tapes
and prepared abstracts for each tape; then combined tape inventory sheets

<<<Page: 93>>>

and abstracts into a finding aid for the collection, June 8, 1987 through August I4, 1987.
Derek H. Marble, Bachelors Candidate, Utah State University. Garber Facility, assisted with restoration and preservation of on-going projects including assembly, dissembly, reassembly, rework, painting, and chemical treatment
and preservation of all components of selected aircraft and spacecraft, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Trina R. Maslowski, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Exhibits, executed preliminary designs for an art catalog and helped with miscellaneous assignments, January 20, 1987 through May 1, 1987.
Leslie McNeal, High School. Office of Education, helped with the development of Education Resource Center, general office duties, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Delano McRavin, High School. Garber Facilty, assisted with clerical duties; operated personal computer to enter data regarding master lists of trans-
ortation usage, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
I. David Muhlbaum, Bachelors Candidate, Middlebury College. Office of Public Affairs, wrote press releases and articles for the in-house newspaper, did photographic research for various brochures and press events, assisted with the promotion of a new gallery installation, participated in over-all daily operation of a museum press office and assisted with duties in the Special Events office, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Alexander Pak, High School. Information Management, assisted professional staff, July 12, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Julie B. Simon, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College. Space Science and Exploration, assisted in archival processing of the James E. Webb papers, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Lynn Sloan, High School. Library, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 1l, 1987.
M. Kirk Stevenson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Education, assisted in developing education programs, January 12, 1987 through April 27, 1987.
Scott R. Stienke, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Educa-
tion, assisted in the development of the Education Resource Center by compiling written and audiovisual resource materials; assisted in plan-
ning and executing teacher workshops, June 8, 1987/7 through August 14, 1987.
Mitchell Alan Yockelson, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Library, arranged and described the Lawrence Lovell Jr. Collection and performed a survey of Ramsey Rare Book Room, May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Karl E. Werner, Bachelors Candidate, Villanova University. Office of Exhibits, completed “as built" drawings for projects completed in the year, drafted plans for proposed exhibits, researched new lighting equipment for various projects, devised plans of existing electrical circuits on the computer for future use and assisted in gallery installation and maintenance, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Sarah Ashton, Masters Candidate, Colgate University. Department of Education and Research, organized and cataloged art objects for the Department of Education; prepared outreach KitS, workshop materials and slide kits for teachers, September 8, through December 4, 1987.
Brenda Chalfin, Bachelors Degree, Amherst College. Curatorial and Photographic

<<<Page: 94>>>

Archives, researched exhibitions and cataloged archival material, October 1, through December 31, 1986.
Keith M. Conway, Bachelors Candidate, University of the District of Columbia. Assisted with the conservation of archaeological artifacts, March 30, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Marie Durquet, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Davis. Curatorial, researched future exhibitions, June 29, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Winona Hubbard, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Office of Public Affairs, gathered, prepared and presented information for public and press use, July 13, 1987 through August 18, 1987.
Anita W. McNamee, Masters Degree. Office of Public Affairs, assisted with programs for 1987 museum opening, which included list development and writing a newswire feature, etc., January 7, 1987 through March 31, 1987.
Henry Thaggert, III, Bachelors Degree, Tulane University. Department of Education and Research, prepared educational materials for the docent program, August 3, 1987 through August 28, 1987: Aided in writing a handbook for the new wing of the National Museum of African Art, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Stryk D. Thomas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Photographic Archives, cataloged and researched, June 1, 1987 through August 11, 1987.
Beth Almanza, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Curatorial, assisted with folk art collection, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Paula Artal-Isbrand, Bachelors Degree, Bridgewater College. Participated in all_ aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Renée Ater-Roberts, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Department of Graphics, researched information for contemporary pastel exhibition, June 8, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
George Benoit, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 15, 1986 through December 8, 1986.
David Burnhauser, Masters Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Office of Intern Programs, Participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8, 1986 through December 8, 1986.
Thereza Crowe, Masters Candidate, University of St. Andrews. Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Alice Dewys, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8, 1986 through April 24, 1987.
Anne A. Edwards, Masters Candidate, Southern Methodist University. Participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, January 12, 1987 through April 24, 1987.
Suzanne Fauteux, Masters Candidate, Columbia College, Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8, 1986 through May 8, 1987.
Marjorie S. Flintom, Masters Candidate. Curatorial, researched bibliographies

<<<Page: 95>>>

for proposed exhibition of contemporary work in Americna pastels, February 9, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
David Gallalee, Masters Candidate, University of Virginia. Department of Graphic Arts, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Richard Hamilton, University of East Anglia. Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Jason Horowitz, Masters Degree, Virginia Commonwealth. Department of Graphic Arts, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Emil Her Many Horses, Bachelors Degree. Renwick Gallery, assisted with "Lost and Found Traditions" exhibition, September 1, 1987 through November 30, 1987.
Tonia Horton, Masters Degree, College of William and Mary. Participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, January 13, 1986 through December 7, 1986.
Anne P. Kamstra, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Public Programs, assisted professional staff, January 12, 1987 through April 24, 1987.
Anne-Louise Marquis, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8, 1986 through April 24, 1987.
Albert Marshall, Bachelors Candidate, University of Delaware/Winterthur Museum. Department of Conservation, assisted with various aspects of conservation, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Alan R. McMann, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of
Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8, 1986 through April 24, 1987.
Jean Morrissey, Masters Candidate, American University. Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8, 1986 through May 30, 1987.
Margaret Morse, Bachelors Degree, New Mexico State University. Office of Public Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Oriskany Oldham, Bachelors Candidate. Library, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Susan Pitney, Bachelors Candidate, Penn State. Office of Intern Programs, assisted with docent programs in Office of Museum Programs, September 8, 1986 through December 8, 1986.
Barbara Rawlins, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Curatorial, assisted with the permanent collection, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Michael Reed, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Lisa Regier, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Office of Museum Programs, assisted with all aspects of museum programs, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Marianna Robin, Bachelors Degree, DePaul University. Office of the Registrar, obtained an overview of functions of the Registrar's Office, June 2, 1986 through July 25, 1986.
Amy Schichtel, Bachelors Candidate, University of Arizona. Office of Design and Preparation, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

<<<Page: 96>>>

Erin M. Shea, George Mason University. Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 25, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Courtenay Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Franklin & Marshall College. Office of the Registrar, assisted in all aspects of Registrar's Office, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Carole Starr, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of Museum Programs, assisted with public programs, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Ruth Sudweeks, Masters Candidate, Office of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8, 1986 through April 24, 1987.
Joanne Thompson, Bachelors Candidate, Bowdoin College. Office of Museum Programs, assisted in the Office of Museum Programs, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Elizabeth Weglein, Masters Candidate, American University. Department of Painting and Sculpture, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11, 1987/7 through December 31, 1987.
Peter A. R. Wilson, Bachelors Degree, Kenyon College. Office of Design and Preparation, assisted with Renwick exhibitions and overview of design and production functions, October 1, 1986 through December 31, 1987.
Stephanie Yoffee, Bachelors Candidate, Rhode Island School of Design. Office of Design and Preparation, assisted in all aspects of design and production, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Nina J. Ahuja, Visiting Professional. Design Division, Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assisted the design of Japanese Internments Exhibit others requiring graphic design, June 1, 1987 through August 31, 1987.
Darlene Alberty, Bachelors Degree, Tyler School of Art. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assisted in the fabrication and installation of various exhibit elements within the Exhibit Production Shop, September 10, 1987 through December 10, 1987.
Dixie R. Alperin, Bachelors Degree, University of Maryland. Department of Social and Cultural History, assisted with collections management,
April 6, 1987 through July 16, 1987.
Caroline D. Alyea, Bachelors Degree, Princeton University. Division of Graphic Arts, assisted professional staff, December 1, 1986 through April 1, 1987.
Karen Andrade, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Costume, assisted with Men and Women: Dressing the Part Great Expectations, The 19th Century, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Ken Arnold, Ph.D Candidate, Princeton University. Department of the History of Science and Technology, researched for “A Material World" exhibition, and assisted in cataloging, measuring, and documenting objects, September 4, 1987/7 through June 30, 1988.
John D. Barbry, Visiting Professional. American Indian Program, assisted in producing a slide/tape educational package on the Seneca exhibit, and a program on [Iroquois lacrosse; researched materials for a resource kit on Indians and the U.S. Constitution, April 27, 1987 through October 30, 1987,
Carol —. Barton, Bachelors Candidate, Rhodes College. Division of Transporta

<<<Page: 97>>>

tion, compiled a bibliography relating to the railroad and other duties, June 22, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Wendy Barton, Bachelors Candidate, University of Idaho. Smithsonian Archives Center, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Julieann Bell, Bachelors Candidate, Bowling Green State University. Public Affairs, handled press and public inquiries, disseminated information to press and the public, June 8, 1987 through August 13, 1987.
Jesse Berrett, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Department of the History of Science and Technology, studied the history of the 1970's and 1980's computer revolution, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Victor Bibbins, High School. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assisted in customizing work for mountings, casings, working with plexiglas, involving use of tablesaw, power tools, hand saws, drills and adhesives, June 28, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Kathryn A. Bolinger, Bachelors Candidate, Texas Christian University. Department of Exhibits, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July tt, 1987.
Tracy K. Breslin, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Division of Medical Sciences, helped arrange two guides to Women's History, June 1, 1987 through July 12, 1987.
Mary Louise Brown, Visiting Professional, University of Missouri at St. Louis. Division of Political History, worked on Life in America exhibit "American Empire," January 5, 1987 through March 6, 1987.
Christina Bulanti, Bachelors Candidate, Santa Clara University. Division of Graphic Arts, assisted in aspects of design publication, layout and printing, September 17, 1987 through December 4, 1987.
Chris S. Cameron, Bachelors Candidate, Miami University at Oxford, Ohio.
Division of Domestic Life, assisted a museum specialist, participated in ee See A ENCE ee eR An Dima ae cide AG ll aca Gh cnc esos esl nee
rehousing collections, maintained “After the Revolution” and processed new accessions, May 26, 1987 through August 13, 1987.
Diane Carson, Ph.D Candidate, St. Louis University. Office of Telecommunications, assisted producer on film and video projects; preproduction, pro-
duction and postproduction elements such as location surveys, filming and
videotaping, footage research, logging and editing, August 3, 1987 through September 1, 1987.
Catherine A. Carter, Bachelors Degree, Kenyon College. Divisions of Community Life and Armed Forces History, assisted with Superman exhibition installation and crowd-control, collection management, exhibit and collection improvement and maintenance, including background research, June 16, 1987 through August 31, 1987.
Joan M. Casey, Bachelors Degree, University of Florida. Office of the Registrar, trained in record system, loan and special exhibits programs, objects processing, packaging, shipping, storage, inventory and computer applications, January 27, 1987 through May 12, 1987.
Maurice Chesley, High School. Office of the Registrar, performed minor clerical work such as data entry; identification and numbering of objects, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Ryan L. Christensen, Bachelors Candidate, Illinois State University. History of Science and Technology, assisted with "A More Perfect Union: Japanese Americans and the U.S. Constitution" exhibition, June 1, 1987 through July 30, 1987.
Edward Christian, High School. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, as-
sisted in customizing work for mountings and casings, working with plexi-

<<<Page: 98>>>

las, using table saw, power tools, hand saws, drills, and adhesives, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Jason Clayton, Gonzaga High School. Office of the Registrar, assisted with data entry, identification, and numbering objects, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Pamela J. Clodfelter, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conservation, studied environmental monitoring and conservation treatment, November 10, 1986 through June 26, 1987.
Karen Cooper, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Public Affairs, served as project liason with curator, September 17, 1987 through December 4, 1987.
Jerold Council, Bachelors Degree. Department of Public Programs, prepared
paste-ups and mechanicals in graphic design, June 29, 1987 through ugust 21, 1987.
Joseph Cravotta, Bachelors Candidate, Franklin and Marshall College. Division of Musical Instruments, researched for book on Hoagy Carmichael, June 1, 1987 through July 24, 1987.
Arlyn S. Danielson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Division of Political History, assisted in all aspects of curatorial and object processing work, May 7, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
David Des Roches, Bachelors Candidate, St. Anselm College. Department of Public Programs, researched topics relating to the Presidents and photograph collections in the National Archives, Martin Luther King Library, and the Library of Congress, September 1/7, 1987 through December 4, 1987.
Charles Diesen, Museum Professional, Minnesota Historical Society. Department of Conservation, researched for conservation condition survey/archaeologic collection, assessed needs of the collections and produced a research paper, March 2, 1987 through April 10, 1987.
Gloria Dominguez, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A & M University. Department of the History of Science and Technology, cataloged and documented exhibits in genetic engineering and artificial organs, June I, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Gerald Drake, High School. Department of Public Programs, assisted with the documentation of pertinent activities at the museum, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Ilana D. Drucker, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Division of Political History, researched and maintained "We The People," including take-down, 19th-century research, June 1, 1987 through August 5, 1987.
Jeri Dyson, High School. Program in Black American Culture, assisted the pro-
gram coordinator, and helped in the development and planning of future
programs, and performed archival work, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Alan D. Eisler, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Division of Political History, worked on President's project, June 9, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
William R. Ellis, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Public Programs, assisted on Public Programs project with Phillips museum, May 19, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Eric C. Engleman, High School, Robinson High School. Division of Armed Forces History, focused on collections project and helped set up the Constitution exhibit, June 22, 1987/7 through August 22, 1987.
Janet English, Masters Candidate, State University of New York. Department of Conservation, surveyed European and American prints in the Division,

<<<Page: 99>>>

June 1, 1987 through August 15, 1987: assisted with paper conservation, July 27, 1987 through August 20, 1988.
Kieran Eustace, Bachelors Candidate, St. Francis College. National Numismatic Collection, cataloged medals and researched photo journal, September 8, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Lisa Falk, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. American Indian Program, assisted with public programs, educational activities, and exhibit related research, January 12, 1987 through April 23, 1987.
Alice A. Forbes, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Department of the History of Science and Technology, researched the history of technology as an academic discipline, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Alachia Foster, High School. Department of Public Programs, assisted intern
and fellowship coordinator, clerical work, filing, tracking applications,
prepared orientation material and coordinated special activities for interns and fellows, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Michelle Fresia, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Ceramics and Glass, worked on exhibition dealing with the department store of the 19th century, September 8, 1987 through December 15, 1987.
Chari Fykes, High School. Department of Social and Cultural History, assisted with data collection and entry, and filing and typing to create a computerized database of Afro-American materials in the collection, June 29, 1987, through August 14, 1987.
Gayle Gibson, Bachelors Degree, Abilene Christian University. Division of Ag-
riculture and Natural Resources, assisted in final installation of "Offifit AR LC EA AARC NST Aaa
cial Images" exhibition, and helped coordinate a project titled “An Oral History of Southern Agriculture," June 4, 1987 through August 1, 1987.
Paula Gibson, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Department of Science and Technology, assisted in rehousing rare book material from the Jackson collection, and helped organize and rehouse uniform collection,
May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Helene C. Gillette, Masters Degree. Department of Conservation, developed art conservation skills, September 14, 1987 through September 14, 1988.
Karen Golden, Bachelors Candidate, Siena College. Department of Public Programs, served as Assistant Intern Coordinator, February 12, 1987 through April 30, 1987.
Terry Goldsworthy, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University at Bloomington. Division of Political History, researched American Presidency 1789-1989 exhibit and assisted in collections processing, July 12, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Andrea Goldwyn, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Divisions of Graphic Arts and Computers, worked on printing demonstration in “After the Revolution" and researched discoveries of major computer pioneers, June 1, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Renee L. Gonzalez, Bachelors Candidate, Scripps College. Office of Public Affairs, served as media coordinator for the office, February 5, 1987 through May 8, 1987.
Paul D. Gosselin, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Public Programs, gathered information and prepared press releases; maintained contact with the press and updated mailing lists, September 17, 1987 through December 4, 1987.
Anne D. Grace, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Division of Political History, assisted in locating and researching pictorial images and union emblems for exhibit entitled "Images of Labor," February 5, 1987 through May 15, 1987.

<<<Page: 100>>>

Lisa K. Graddy, Bachelors Degree, Texas Tech University. Office of the Registrar, assisted with collection management, June 15, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Robin A. Graham, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Department of Social and Cultural History, compiled and analyzed database of Afro-American items for Index project, June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Jennifer L. Greathouse, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Program in Black American Culture, researched and interviewed for conference on Black American migration, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Brigitta Hack, Masters Candidate, Joanne-Gutenberg University. Division of Domestic Life, prepared a checklist of patent models, cataloged, cleaned, numbered, photographed, measured and described models, February 9, 1987 CHCOUGKWA DM elas LO Ores
Heather L. Hagopian, Bachelors Candidate, College of Wooster. Office of Public Programs, assisted intern coordinator; facilitated placement and orientation of interns, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Birdie L. Harlan, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Carolina. American Indian Program, researched a bibliography of Indian medicine and agriculture, June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Christopher T. Haze, High School Graduate. Office of Public Programs, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
James B. Hay, Masters Degree, Queen's University. Department of Conservation, surveyed guitar collection and learned procedures for conserving musical instruments, furniture, and other artifacts made primarily of wood, August 28, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Julie Ann Herman, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Public Programs, assisted in Program of Hispanic American History, September 8, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Meredith K. Hobbs, Bachelors Candidate, University of Georgia. Division of
Political History, researched the southern history portion of "Great Ex-
ectations" upcoming exhibition, September 8, 1987 through December 11, 1oET
Winona Hubbard, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Office of Public Affairs, gathered, prepared, and presented information for public and press usage, June 8, 1987 through July 10, 1987.
Suzanne Hubbell, High School Graduate. Office of Printing and Photographic Services, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Sharman E. Jacoby, Bachelors Candidate, Amherst College. Division of Armed Forces History, assembled permanent catalog of Civil War uniforms collection: researched files at Archives and Library of Congress and applied research to objects for identification and documentation, May 18, 1987 through June 26, 1987.
Karen M. Jenkins, Bachelors Candidate, Metropolitan State College. Archives Center, worked on "Field to Factory" exhibition, organized and maintained archives for exhibit, answered public inquiries, conducted oral interviews and conducted research, June 1, 198/7 through August 21, 1987.
Eileen E. Joseph, Bachelors Candidate, Bucknell University. Department of Public Programs, worked on American Sampler Series, June 3, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Maurine D. Keller, Madeira High School. Division of Transportation, worked on rehousing ship plans, October 1, 1986 through May 31, 1987.
Jonn M. Kennedy, Bachelors Candidate, Colgate University. Department of Social

<<<Page: 101>>>

and Cultural History, worked on 19th-century exhibit project, prepared a research paper, January 5, 1987 through January 29, 1987.
Martha E. Kesler, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College. Division of Community Life, assisted in the development of a Hispanic American History Program/
facilitating information flow, February 2, 198/ through May 12, 1987.
Sarah Kinard, High School. Archives, researched processing and organization of the archival collection, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Christine Kreamer, Bachelors Candidate, University of Delaware. Department of Public Programs, served as Assistant Intern and Fellows Coordinator, March 26, 1987 through April 30, 1987.
Susan K. Lana, Bachelor's Degree, Mills College. Internship Office, assisted
in the development and maintenance program to recruit and successfully place interns in the museum; maintained current rosters of interns and
fellows while developing special programs to further the knowledge of the functions and structures, etc., May 1, 198/ through September 30, 1987,
Mary H. Leavell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas at San Antonio. Division of Community Life, worked on Superman exhibition, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Dana Leventhal, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Berkeley. Department of Social and Cultural History, researched Greek Revival architecture in 19th-century America and studied the origins and influence of balloon frame houses in America, September 8, 1987 through December 15, 1987.
Stephanie G. Lipscomb, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center,
researched the History of Stereoscopic 3-D Photography, August 27, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Miguel A. Longo, High School, St. Stephen's. Division of Community Life, assisted with "Superman, Many Lives, Many Worlds"; also provided research for technical and collections management support, May 4, 1987 through May 19, 1987.
Erma Jean Loveland, Masters Candidate, Abilene Christian University. Archives
Center, processed manuscript collections, rehoused Warshaw Collection and
learned word processing and SIBIS data base, April 2/7, 1987 through May 29, 1987.
James E. Malaro, Bachelors Candidate, Washington and Jefferson College. Division of Political History, researched Whig Convention in Baltimore in 1844, December 29, 1986 through January 28, 1987.
Emily S. Martin, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of Public Programs, assisted the publications officer, and helped coordinate a_direct mail poster project, which included all phases of publication, May 26, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Lisa Mathai, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Department of Public Programs, investigated visitor behavior in and reactions to three exhibitions: "After the Revolution," “Engines of Change," and "Field to Factory," September 14, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Marian Matrician, Masters Degree. Department of the History of Science and Technology, researched project on the history of the National Museum of American History as reference to the position of science and technology, June 9, 1987 through August 30, 1987.
Wesley C. Mattie, Museum Professional, Canadian Museum of Civilization. Registrar's Office, worked on collections management manual, February 17, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
Susana Measelle, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. National

<<<Page: 102>>>

Numismatics Collections, recorded information on design, weight, color, and year of government medals, July 8, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Isabel Mendoza, Visiting Professional, Museo del Hombre. Department of Exhibits, obtained an overview of exhibition production techniques as employed at large and small museums, September 29, 1987 through August 30, 1987; Division of Conservation, studied the programs and services of the Smithsonian Institution, October 7, 1986 through October 7, 1987.
Valerie M. Mendoza, Bachelors Candidate, The Johns Hopkins University. Division of Community Life, researched Hispanic studies, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Tnhomasine M. Miles, Bachelors Degree, University of the District of Columbia. Office of Public Affairs, assisted with the preparation of news releases and public service announcements, researched information, disseminated press releases, fielded media requests, June 1, 1987 through August 2, 1987.
Rod Milstead, High School, Georgetown Day School. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, researched for "A More Perfect Union: The Japanese-American Experience During World War II," April 27, 1987 through May 25, 1987.
Kelly McBrearty, High School Graduate. Division of Electicity and Modern PhySics, assisted professional staff, July 12, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Kathy McKoy, Masters Degree. Division of Ceramics and Glass, assisted with interpretation and furnished of two 1805 and 1870s' parlors; to be part of 19th century “Life in America’ exhibition, August 3, 1987/7 through August 28, 1987.
John H. McWhorter, Masters Candidate. Department of Public Programs, helped with publicity, researched in performing arts-oriented public programs and exhibitions, February 9, 1987 through May 1, 1987.
Susan J. Mertz, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Division of Costume, worked on costume conservation -projects related to “Men and Women" exhibit opening in 1989, January 1, 1987 through April 30, 1987.
Holly Mitchell, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Political History, assisted in research on women during the progressive era,
August 2/7, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Mary Mockovak, Bachelors Candidate, DePauw University. Office of Public Affairs, assisted professional staff, February 5, 1987 through May 8, 1987.
Mona Morris, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Santa Barbara. Archives Center, researched and cataloged collections, September 21, 1987 through December 11, 1987.
Stella Nair, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Computers, Information and Society, produced archival and collection searches, researched relevant photographs, June 22, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Jessica Nicoll, High School. Division of Electricity and Modern Physics, worked on geographical organization of Ham Station QSL cards received from around the world, July 21, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Robert Norbrey, High School. Division of Graphic Arts, assisted in cataloging antique type, assisted with introducing the public to print and press, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Elizabeth O'Rourke, Masters Candidate, University of Kansas. Division of
Costume, assisted with research and preparatory tasks for “Men and Women: Dressing the Part’; studied the 1912 dance scene for proper stance, hair-
styles, accessories, etc., located items in collections to accompany garments; preparatory tasks included making accurate reproduction underwear, May 18, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Ted Osgood, High School. Archives Center, aided research in processing and

<<<Page: 103>>>

organizing the archival collection, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Stacey Otte, Bachelors Candidate, Arizona State University. Division of Domestic Life, assisted with rehousing collections and with maintenance of ex-
hibit "After the Revolution", processed new accessions including clean-
ing, storing and numbering objects, June 1, 198/ through August 7, 1987. David Pearson. High School Graduate. Division of Military History, assisted
professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Lisa A. Pertillar, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Program in Black American Culture, assisted with gathering information for a conference on museum outreach to minorities, June 7, 1987 through July ll, 1987.
Carole L. Planicka, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Depart-
ment of Public Programs, assisted in direct mail poster project, prepared
camera-ready mechanicals for museum publications, June 8, 1987 through August 29, 1987,
Kate Prinsley, Visiting Progessional. Registrar's Office, worked on the collections of the "1876" exhibition, September 21, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Natalie M. Rebar, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of
Public Programs, was responsible for design and paste-up of brochures and other small publications concerning department activities; filled mailorder requests, assisted with administrative requirements, September 9, 1987 through December 2, 1987.
Elizabeth Regier, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Ceramics and Glass, researched domestic space in late 19th-century America,
September 8, 1987 through December 22, 1987.
Yevette Richards, Masters Candidate, Yale University. Program in Black American Culture, conducted oral history interviews connected with the AfroAmerican migration project, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Jessica Richter, Bachelors Degree. Department of Public Programs, assisted with research in the Performance Division, October 8, 1986 through December 31, 1986.
Beth A. Richvine, Bachelors Candidate, State University College at Buffalo. Department of Conservation, worked in objects conservation, September 14, 1987 through August 14, 1988.
Victoria A. Rocha, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College. Office of Public Affairs, responded to press and public inquiries, supervised film crews,
wrote press releases etc., February 4, 1987 through May 8, 1987. Jonathan Rodriguez, Bachelor of Fine Arts Candidate, Maryland College of Art
and Design. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assisted in the development and processing of an exhibit, produced materials and displays, June 29, 1987 through August 13, 1987: helped to produce 442; in “A More Perfect Union," August 14, 1987 through September 4, 1987. Lois Rohlfing, Bachelors Candidate, University of Nebraska at Lincoln. Division of Textiles, worked with 18th and 19th century textiles, cataloged textiles and related materials, June 8, 1987 through August 12, 1987. Beth Ann Rondeau, Bachelors Candidate, Michigan Technological University. Division of Medical Sciences, photographed medical instruments and laboratory researchers for future exhibit, June 7, 1987/7 through July 11, 1987. Christine Russell, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Public Programs, filed in the audio-visual library, compiled "Programs" notebook, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987. Julie A. Schafer, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Office of Educa-

<<<Page: 104>>>

tion, supported in Hands on History Room, helped with testing of activity kits made by the Education Office, June 3, 1987 through August 5, 1987.
Kimberly Schenk, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware/Winterthur Art Conservation Program. Department of Conservation, conservation treatment of photographic album, June 3, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Dana Sergent, Bachelors Candidate, Bowling Green State University. Division of Community Life, assisted in the maintenance of an exhibit, worked on Superheroes symposium and sport costumes collection, cataloged and accessioned collections, September 8, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Carol Sexton, Visiting Professional. Department of Exhibits, assisted with exhibit and publication design, October 14, 1986 through January 30, 1987,
Robert Shanklin, High School. Office of Telecommunications, assigned various tasks and duties associated with the production of audio-visual presentations: movies, videos, and radio broadcasts, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Mumia Shimaka-Mbasu, Ph.D Candidate, Howard University. Archives Center, assisted with archival organization and administration, June 6, 1986 through March 28, 1986.
Jonathan Snhipler, Bachelors Candidate, Middlebury College. Division of Engi-
neering and Industry, researched and assisted with photographing and
preservation of Bond Shop tools, June 1, 1987 through August 15, 1987. David R. Simmons, High School, The Prairie School. Department of Public Pro-
grams, assisted with "American Sampler" and "Palm Court Cameos" programs, March 9, 1987 through March 20, 1987.
Thomas R. Sixbey, Bachelors Candidate, Johns Hopkins University. Archives Center, processed Arab-American manuscript collections, June 1, 1987 through September 1, 1987.
Sarah M, Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, assisted with photographs and oral histories for book on Field to Factory exhibit, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Valerie Smith, Masters Degree, University of Delaware. Department of Public Programs, served as Assistant Intern coordinator, and developed programs Fall 1987 interns, September 23, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Jennifer L. Soden, Bachelors Candidate, University of Oregon. Division of Medicine, assisted curator on "Search for Life: The Development of Genetic Technologies in 20th C. America” exhibition, March 17, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
William Southerland, Bachelors Candidate, University of Bridgeport. Office of the Director, assisted in completion of a variety of administrative projects, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Jennifer L. Spence, Bachelors Candidate, Florida Southern University. Division of Electricity and Modern Physics, entered computer data for photographic index and mounted, labeled and fixed historic photographs, June 8, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Brent L. Sterling, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Division of Political History, researched political history; worked on collections and acquisitions planning for 1988 presidential election material, June l, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Kathleen Stewart, Bachelors Candidate, Lynchburg College. Division of Armed Forces History, cataloged 19th-century collection of foreign uniforms and insignia and prepared documentation of files, May 20, 1987/7 through August 7, 1987.

<<<Page: 105>>>

Todd Dean Stockwell, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio State University. Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources, worked with appropriate conservation techniques practiced by the museum, evaluated trade literature collection, provided assistance, June 22, 1987 through September 15, 1987.
Yoonjoo Strumfels, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware. Division of Conservation, assisted with the conservation of graphic arts, June 8, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Leah M. Sullivan, Bachelors Candidate, Holy Cross. Division of Political History, researched 19th century American life, September 2, 1987 through December 8, 1987.
Dwight W. Swanson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Colorado. Division of Political History, researched material for the "Images of Labor" exhibition, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Moira Thomas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Massachusetts. Division of Engineering and Industry, research assistant on the Bond's of Boston Project, June 2, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Alison Tilghman, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Medical Sciences, researched recent innovations in medicine, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Dawn Tinoco, High School. Department of Social and Cultural History, sorted
and numbered objects such as antique type, use of the printing press;
projects tailored to the skills of the museum aide, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Julie Vergamini, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Political History, studied 19th-century business cycles, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Jennifer Vigil, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin. American Indian Program, conducted photo and archival research on Native American Women and Native American history, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Mary Clare Wallace, Bachelors Candidate, Lake Forest College. Division of Domestic Life, assisted with collections management, January 5, 1987 through April 20, 1987.
Marjorie Weaver, Visiting Professional. Department of Exhibits and Public
Spaces, designed small exhibits, helped with graphic aspects of design,
produced drafting drawings, exhibit preparations, printing and light carpentry, July 27, 1987 through July 31, 1988.
Nancy P. Webster, Masters Candidate, North Carolina State University. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assisted with exhibition design, January 28, 1987 through May 12, 1987.
Carrie Weems, Masters Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Archive Center, worked on paper on “Images of Labor in America", photographed and reported on various collections, June 1, 1987 through July 3, 1987.
Gail S. Weiss, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Registrar's Office, assisted with shipping, loans, packaging and computer applications, January 29, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
Kelly Welch, Bachelors Degree. Department of the History of Science and Tech-
nology, assisted in collections management in cataloging, marking and
storing 450 transistors; integrated circuits and related objects; assisted staff in the Division of Electricity and Modern Physics in photograph
filing project, September 28, 1987 through December 22, 1987.
Brian Wescott, Ph.D Candidate, Yale University. American Indian Program, reworked broadcasts from Smithsonian radio into educational tapes, and researched films for an Indian Film Festival, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

<<<Page: 106>>>

Elizabeth D. White, Madeira High School. Division of Transportation, assisted
with rehousing ship plans, October 1, 1986 through May 31, 1987.
Mark D. White, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Division of Medical Sciences, performed 18th-19th-century American patent medicine cataloging, June 22, 1987 through July 24, 1987.
Jocelyn A. Young, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Graphic Arts, studied 19th-century women in industry, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Joan M. Zenzen, Masters Candidate, University of Michigan. Division of Political History, researched material for the exhibit “Life in 19th century America, series of research reports on westward expansionism in 19th-
century America, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Amelia M. Adams, Masters Candidate, Smith College. Department of Anthropology, did microcopic toothwear analysis, June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Lawrence A. Alice, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, did curation of small families, November 2, 1986 through December 23, 1986.
Kristina M. Arnold, Bachelors Candidate, Illinois State University. Department of Anthropology, prepared a bibliography of The Plains' Sun Dance Ceremony, September 9, 1987 through November 28, 1987.
Andres Aslan, Bachelors Degree. Department of Paleobiology, detailed sedimentological analyses used for paleoecological reconstructions of Cenozoic terrestrial etc., October 6, 1986 through June 30, 1987.
Dana Bahar, Bachelors Degree, Smith College. Department of Mineral Sciences,
processed a collection of volcano photographs recently donated to the Global Volcanism Program by Carnegie Institution s Geophysical Laboratory, June 1, 198/ through August 21, 1987.
Christopher Bailey, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Department of Botany, studied chenopodaceae and Rosaceae curation, December 19, 1986 through January 2, 1987,
Patricia Barlow, Masters Candidate, University of New Mexico. Department of Botany, computerized Herbarium, December 29, 1986 through January 14, 1987.
Christine Bertels, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Department of Botany, worked in the Marine Algae Laboratory, May 26, 1987 through September 31, 1987.
Elizabeth Bick, Bachelors Candidate, Stockton State College. Department of Botany, did marine algae curation, January 23, 1987 through May 8, 1987.
Kim Bookard, High School. Department of Botany, worked on plant collections management; assisted with processing in-coming and out-going collections, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Michael G. Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Colorado College. Department of Botany, did marine algae studies, June 8, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Christopher 1. Conti, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Department of Entomology, generated hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships among populations of soldier flies, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Carol M. Cummings, University of Michigan. Department of Anthropology, researched African cultural transmissions, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987,
Denise M, Decker, Bachelors Candidate, Shippensburg University. Department of

<<<Page: 107>>>

Mammals, did a phylogenetic study of the species Procyonidae (mammalia, carnivora), January 29, 1987 through May 7, 1987.
Margaret F. Dinse, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University. Department of Botany, studied flora of the Guianas, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Jean Elsasser, Masters Degree. Anthropology Archives, worked on Education Outreach Program for Columbus Quincentenary planning, assisted with fundraiser and budget, etc., February 25, 1987 through April 27, 1987.
Mitra Fattahipour, Bachelors Degree. Department of Mineral Sciences, did volcanic hazard assessment in Chile, November 17, 1986 through February 13, 1987.
Susan M. Folkerth, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A & M University. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, researched evidence from fossils and museum skin collections to study extinction in Hawaiian birds, June 2, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Jess Freidenburg, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Department of Anthropology, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through Juiyail, 1987.
J. Phil Gibson, Bachelors Candidate, Oklahoma State. Department of Botany, did solanaceae curation, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987. 159
Victoria Godwin, Bachelors Degree, Florida State. Department of Botany, processed Marine algae, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Orit Gover, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Education, worked with museum education in cooperation with George Washington University, January 12, 1987 through April 30, 1987.
Margaret Hangan, Bachelors Candidate, Pitzer College. Department of Anthropology, worked on Paleo-Indian artifacts and analyzed mammal bones, June l, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Susan Harrington, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of Mineral Sciences, assisted in study of volcanology, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Steward Adams Hill, Bachelors Candidate, Roanoke College. Department of Paleobiology, studied Pompeii plant material, May 26, 1987 through June 19, 1987.
Tracy E. Hippensteel, Bachelors Candidate, Pennsylvania State University. Department of Botany, studied marine algae, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987,
Flavio P. Hinojosa, Universidad Mayo da San Andras. Vertebrate Zoology, collected mammals and birds in Panama, February 16, 1987 through June 5, 19875
Rosemary Hooper, Masters Candidate, University of Arizona at Tucson. Discovery
Room, assisted with general management and developed educational material
for use in the Discovery Room; maintained existing material: and worked with school groups, September 14, 1987 through April 30, 1988.
Gustavo Hormiga, Masters Degree. Department of Entomology, studied scientific illustration techniques, April 27, 1987 through September 30, 1987. Tanya L. Jackson, Masters Candidate, American University. Department of Bot-
any, worked on an ethnobotanical exhibition and assisted with a palm bibliography book, February 12, 1987 through June 1, 1987.
Bridget A. Jones, Masters Degree, University of Kansas. Department of Anthropology, worked on bibliographies and collection documentation, June 1, 1987 through Septemer 1, 1987.
Paul Jung, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

<<<Page: 108>>>

Karen Laun, Bachelors Degree. Office of Education, worked on educational material for use by docents, teachers and the public, September 15, 1987 through January 1, 1988.
Jeanne Leone, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Telecommunications, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Sabrina Lewis, High School. Museum Support Center, set up insect traps, collected data by monitoring environment, apparatus, or temperature and hyperthermographics, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Lauri Mackelburg, Bachelors Candidate, Shippensburg University. Department of Invertebrate Zoology, researched platyrrhine biogeography, September 18, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Suely A. Marques, Masters Degree. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, trained in bat systematics, May 15, 1987 through August 13, 1987: bats of Para State (Brazil): an account of the species and natural history; reviewed Ailiblus lituralus, August 1, 1987 through October 15, 1987.
Melissa Martin, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Exhibits, assisted professional staff, July 12, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
June Mauceri, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Binghamton. Department of Botany, performed gesneriaceae cultivation, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Ann R. Meyer, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Department of Botany, did curation of : Schrophulariaceae and Boraginaceae,
December 29, 1986 through January 14, 1987.
Dawnita Neconie, High School. Department of Anthropology, prepared a catalog of the Smithsonian collections from the Kiona people of Oklahoma, September 8, 1987 through November 30, 1987.
Jonn A. Nissenbaum, Bachelors Degree. Physical Anthropology, studied evolution of Pleistocene Econosystems, November 18, 1986 through May 1/7, 1987.
Ann S. Oliver, Bachelors Candidate, William and Mary College. Department of Invertebrate Zoology, dissected and identified multiple characters of the squid family Chirotenthidae, June 15, 1987 through September 14, 1987.
Marceline Pascuzzi, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University of Pennsylvania. Office of Education, assisted with public programs, visitors, collection management and specimen preparation training, June 1, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Sasikala Pattabhiraman, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Botany, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Patricia J. Perry, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Exhibits,
computed graphic design using terminals at University of Maryland Campus;
drafted floor plans; illustrated artifacts; created displays, June l, 1987 through August 31, 1987.
Radhika Philip, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Department of Anthropology, researched and archived photographs for the HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS, September 9, 1987 through December 15, 1987.
Luther J. Raechal, Bachelors Degree. University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point. Department of Botany, studied flora of the Guianas, worked as assistant intern coordinator, May 20, 1987 through May 26, 1987.
Ang Robinson. Office of Education, wrote a grant proposal for outreach project targeting Southeast Asians, children and adults in the District of
Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, May 2/7, 1987 through December 31, 1987;
completed education internship in cooperation with George Washington University, January 12, 1987 through April 30, 1987.
Kathy Rupp, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Invertebrate Zoology, compu-

<<<Page: 109>>>

terized a list of the shells of Hawaiian tree snails, June 15, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Rebecca Schlott, Bachelors Candidate, Emory University. Department of Botany, filed Gramineae, December 29, 1986 through January 14, 1987,
Scott Schultz, Bachelors Candidate, Kansas State University. Office of Exhibits, assisted staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Whitney A. Seymour, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of Education, assisted with public programs and participated in summative evaluation of Micronesian exhibition, May 26, 1987 through August 2, 1987.
Thalassa W. Skinner, Bachelors Degree, Yale University. Anthropology, assisted in paleoanthropological research, March 9, 1987 through May 1, 1987.
Kelly Lynn Sobczak, Bachelors Candidate, Allegheny College. Office of Exhibits, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Orlo Colin Steele, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Santa Barbara. Department of Botany, studied endangered plants, March 15, 1987 through September 30, 1987.
Thomas C. Stein, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University. Department of Mineral Sciences, assisted in the development and integration of the Global Volcanism Program's computer files of volcanological data, June l, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
I. Wayan Suanda, Masters Candidate, Bali Museum. Department of Anthropology, worked on collections management project and other works in the ethnographic collections, September 10, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Patricia C. Taylor, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Department of Botany, collected flora of Guyana; was in Guyana from June to August 1987, March 13, 1987 through August 31, 1987.
Susan Van Gundy, Bachelors Candidate. Marine Systems Laboratory, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
I-Ming Wang, Masters Candidate, Indiana State University. Department of Bot-
any, performed solanceae curation, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Doris S. Warriner, High School Graduate, St. Timothy's School. Department of Anthropology, helped with public inquiries, putting information materials on the word processor, and recording photographic negative numbers on catalog cards, May 14, 1987 through June 4, 1987.
Sonja Webb, Masters Degree. Department of Anthropology, researched crossroads of continents, July 6, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Wilhelmina S. Weyer, High School, Holton-Arms School. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, studied causes of variations in symmetry of rodent's skeletons, May 18, 1987 through June 5, 1987.
Chandra White, High School. Department of Anthropology, filed, copied, and proofread for the Handbook of North American Indians, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Melanie Wilcox, High School. Office of Exhibits, assisted in the maintenance,
interpretation and feeding of insects, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Margaret Wood, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Office of Education, assisted in fossil shell classification, July 6, 1987 through August 19, 1987.
T. Ajit Younger, Bachelors Candidate, University of Waterloo. Department of Botany, did gramineae curation, June 29, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Beatrice E. Bachmann, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Assisted
Io02

<<<Page: 110>>>

with research on radio and TV personnel of the 20's and 30's, October 22, 1986 through May 31 1987.
Kimberly Beynum, Duke Ellington High School of the Fine Arts. Assisted in the Building Management Office, helped with scheduling and served as receptionist, June 8, 1987 through July 7, 1987.
Jane Bierman, Bachelors Degree, Colorado College. Department of Prints and Photographs, organized Meserve Collection negatives, June 15, 1987 through August 31, 1987.
Clare C. Franklin, Wellesley College. Conducted biographical research and performed exhibits work for exhibition on broadcasting pioneers, May 20, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
M. Claire Garrett, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University. Assisted in organization of gifts and exchange materials, vertical file collection and auction catalogue, June 2, 1987 through August 8, 1987.
Kellie M. Gaudry, Bachelors Candidate, Hollins College. Assisted in production of gallery graphics, January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.
Leslie A. Gray, Masters Degree, George Mason University. Developed secondary school program on the Constitution and the Presidency, June 9, 1987 through October 31, 1987.
Carola Haden, Bachelors Degree, Drury College. Assisted staff in operation of research office, verified photographic data, labeled integrating information and performed research for staff and public, June 15, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Mary E. Hale, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Office of Design and Production, implemented new vertical plan storage and filing system for drawings; became familiar with role of exhibits work,
June 5, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Mary Herrington, Masters Degree, Marymount College. General library work: bibliographic GEAC computer; handled organization of Special Collections, October 16, 1986 through November 15, 1987.
Jill] Heyman, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Education, assisted in marketing programs and promoting the Portrait Gallery and its activities, January 12, 1987 through May 1, 1987,
Audrey Hollett, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Riverside. Office of Education, developed outreach material for conservation program and updated school mailing list, June 29, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Jack Holliday, Masters Degree, University of Dayton. Office of Education, was. a research coordinator, researched and wrote drafts for "The Constitution and the Presidency," July 6, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Russell Jackson, Bachelors Candidate. Office of the Historian, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Leah Ligon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Arkansas at Fayetteville. Assisted with organizing gifts and exchange material, vertical file collection and auction catalogs, May 26, 1987 through July 3, 1987.
Carol J. McCullough, Bachelors Candidate, Hollins College. Assisted in production of gallery graphics, January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.
Lisa M. Melchiori, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Office of Prints and Photographs, researched items in the Meserve Exhibit,
January 21, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
Kimberly R. Meldrun, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Department of Exhibits, started information gathering for a database system, June 3, 1987 through August 3, 1987.
Christine Multra, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Library, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

<<<Page: 111>>>

Paula Pergament, Bachelors Candidate, Earlham College. Office of Education, initiated information gathering for a database system; was. responsible for data entry, June 22, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Mary I. Peters, High School, Sidwell Friends School. Office of Prints and Photographs, conducted biographical research on some drawings by S.T. Woolf which date from the 1920's through the 1940's, May 13, 1987 through June 4, 1987.
Elizabeth Peterson, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut College. Catalog of
American Portraits, verified photographic data, labeled, integrated data jnto master file, did research, responded to general reference questions, June I, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Sylvie-Anne Robinson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Education, designed and developed brochure on programs for adult audi-
ences; executed grants for monetary support for publications and distribution, January 12, 1987 through May 1, 1987.
Margot C. Sklar, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Office of Historian, assisted in on-going research projects on biographical information about notable Americans who are the subjects of exhibitions or lectures at the museum, June 15, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Elizabeth Stebbins, Bachelors Degree, Bates College. Office of Education,
prepared program notes and programs for “American Voices," prepared for fall programs including “Portraits in American Jazz and “American Colonial Portraits 1700-17/6," June I, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Margaret Steward, Bachelors Degree, University of Virginia. Department of Painting and Sculpture, was research assistant for exhibition (1992-93) celebrating Columbian Quincentenary portraits displayed in Fine Arts Building, Chicago Exposition of 1893, June 23, 1987 through July 31, 19875
Elizabeth Stutzman, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Catalog of
American Portraits, verified photographic data, labeled, integrated data into master file, did research, responded to general reference questions, June 1, 1987 through September 1, 1987.
Margaret B. Swallow, Bachelors Degree. Office of Prints and Photographs, cataloged collection of confederate prints, June 15, 1987 through
September 11, 1987. Anne M. Vescovi, Bachelors Degree, Fort Wayne Art Museum. Office of Museum
Programs, assisted staff in operation of research office; verified photoraphic data, labeled, integrated information into a master file, did research for National Portrait Gallery staff and public, April 7, 1987
through August 30, 1987.
Sylvia Alsisto, High School. Office of Education, learned about educational
programs in conservation and natural history, June 3, 1987 through July 20, 1987.
Barbara M. Borderieux, Bachelors Candidate, Maryville. Friends of the National Zoo, assisted in the publications office, June 7, 1987 through July ll, 1987.
William Burnside, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Conservation and Research Center Front Royal, was course assistant for Wildlife Training course, June 8, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Julia W. Carter, Bachelors Candidate, Sweet Briar College. Department of Path-

<<<Page: 112>>>

ology, assisted in the pathology diagnostic laboratory with the opportunity to assist with dissections and preparation of slides, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Cynthia R. Gibson, Bachelors Candidate, Hinds Junior College. Department of Animal Health, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July ll, 1987.
Chani Jalkim, High School. Department of Mammalogy, participated in animal husbandry and management programs, June 3, 1987 through July 20, 1987.
Kimmlyn Marshall, High School. General Services Division, performed general clerical duties including data entry, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Cynthia L. Pogorzelski, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin. Department of Mammology, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through Duly S19 Sir
Robert Shanklin. Office of Facilities Management, assisted professional staff, June 8, 1987 through July 10, 1987.
Jerome Simmons, High School. Office of Facilities Management, landscaped and assisted with tropical plant care and propagation, June 29, 1987 through August 14,1987.
Christopher Smith, High School. Office of Facilities Management, worked as a mechanical assistant, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Michelle Smith, Bachelors Candidate. Invertebrate Exhibition, assisted profesSional staff, April 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Katherine Swain, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Education, assisted profesSional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Kerri Traynor, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Zoological Research, as-
sisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987. pare Gerald F. Weaver, Masters Degree. Office of Education, studied and developed
teacher resources, and assisted with preparation of lesson plans related to primate behavior, June 30, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Tanya Coble, High School. Assisted in documentation in Accounts Payable, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Timothy Heggans, High School. General Accounts, assisted professional staff, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Obinna Ugorji, High School. General Accounts, assisted professional staff, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Dumile Wilson, Robert E. Lee High School. Office of the Comptroller, assisted with clerical and office work, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Monyca Wright, High School. General Accounts, assisted professional staff, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Steven M. Bedford, Ph.D Candidate, Columbia University. Researched architectural career of John Russell Pope, November 1, 1986 through May 30, 1987.
Heather Ewing, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Researched architectural history of the National Zoo, June 9, 1987 through August 10, 1987.
Howard A. Gill, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Worked in the archives of architectural history, February 9, 1987 through March 5, 1987.

<<<Page: 113>>>

Linda NeCastro, Masters Candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Researched the Grace
Temple's design contribution at the Smithsonian Institution, July 15, 1987 through October 2, 1987.
Ricardo Canales, High School. American Visions Project, assisted the production manager in maintaining order requests and distributing the magazine; provided light clerical assistance, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Kirsten Downs, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. American Visions Project, read articles and researched for appropriate photographs to accompany articles, June 1, 1987 through August 2, 1987.
Tiffane White, Bachelors Degree, Howard University. American Visions Project, assisted with production, logging of advertising, handling insertion orders, processing calendars of events and transferring data to typesetter, September 28, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Lisa Williams, High School. American Visions Project, assisted with maintaining order requests, distributing the magazine and performing light clerical duties, June 28, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Ronald Norbrey, High School Graduate, Electrical Facility, helped reset cir-
cuit breakers, re-lamp light fixtures, and perform minor maintenance, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Alejandra Miranda-Naén, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Special Education, developed museum orientation slide kit for students who are retarded or learning disabled, January 12, 1987 through April 24, 1987.
Karla Smith, High School Graduate. Assisted in all aspects of the summer intern program, June 8, 1987 through July 10, 1987.
Beatrice Taylor, Ph.D Candidate, George Mason University. Evaluated teacher Summer workshops, June 4, 1987 through September 28, 1987.
Saleh E. Al Jassim, Museum Professional, Ministry of Information, Bahrain. Model Shop, assisted with taxidermy and model making, October 1, 1986 through December 24, 1986.
Samuel Batzli, Bachelors Degree. Assisted in the production of models and displays for museum and traveling exhibitions; bracketing and cavity packing of objects, August 3, 1987 through November 27, 1987.
Thomas Gastel, Bachelors Candidate, Rhode Island School of Design. Design and Editing, designed a panel exhibit on the new Sackler Gallery, National Museum of African Art, and International Center for display at the Martin Luther King Library, June 8, 1987 through August 5, 1987.

<<<Page: 114>>>

Eric Russ, Bachelors Candidate. School of Visual Arts (New York). Graphics Shop, assisted in the development and process of an exhibit, and produced materials and displays, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Cynthia Southerland, Bachelors Candidate, Pratt Institute. Model Shop, assised with making exhibition models which included castings in plaster, mold making, construction of brackets and other related tasks and duties,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Gary T. Staab, Bachelors Candidate, Hastings College. Model Shop, assisted with model building, including manufacture of rubber molds, plastic and fiberglass casts, March 1, 1987 through June 5, 1987.
Rick Towne, Bachelors Candidate, Milford South East Community College. Fabri-
cation Shop, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Katherine C. Bond, Bachelors Degree. assisted in areas involving folk arts of
the Indochinese refugee population, including the transcription of folk
songs and the accumulation of bibliographic material for planning proposal, September 22, 1987 through June 1, 1988.
S. Curtis Bowman, Visiting Professional, Institute of American Indian Arts. Worked on Folklife Festival, May 26, 1987 through July 10, 1987.
Carol A. Chapin, Bachelors Degree. Folklife Programs Office, worked on folklife archives, October 20, 1986 through January 20, 1987.
R. Kevin Donald, Ph.D Candidate, University of Oregon. Photographed each performer at the Festival of American Folklife, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Suzanne Fauteux, Masters Candidate, Columbia College. Folklife Festival, assisted in all aspects of the preparation and execution of the Festival of American Folklife, February 2, 1987 through May 8, 1987.
Gordon A. Kirsch, Bachelors Candidate, Evergreen State College. Archives, worked on folklife archives, January 28, 1987 through July 17, 1987.
Dennis G. Medina, Masters Candidate, University of Texas. Performed activities related to expressive culture associated with impact on agricultural production of Columbus" voyage, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Cynthia Y. Munoz, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas. Worked on Texas languages and research, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Micnael J. Nelson, Bachelors Candidate, Haverford College. Assisted with Festival of American Folklife, June 1, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Emmett Printup, Masters Degree. Ethnomusicology, researched, February 17, 1987 through March 27, 1987.
Heidi Tobler, Bachelors Candidate, Brigham Young University. Folkways Records, worked on the archives of Folkways records acquisitions, August 31, 1987 through December 17, 1987.
Saran Louise Williams, High School, St. Agnes School. Assisted in cataloging field material from research travels for the Folklife Festival, May 8, 1987 through May 29, 1987.
Martnanne P, Aleman, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A & M University. Analyzed site and made conceptual drawing for two areas being developed, nursery

<<<Page: 115>>>

and research center, researched topography, utilities, drainage studies,
grading plans, and irrigation systems, layouts, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Daniel H. Bentrup, Bachelors Candidate, West Virginia University. Greenhouse, assisted with collection management of the Cattleya orchids (both cultural_ and records work), May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Ning Dai, Masters Degree, American University. Greenhouse, production of poinsettias and special training techniques for pot mums, June 8, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Lee S. DeMars, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Greenhouse, general greenhouse work potting, watering, weeding, June 7, 1987 through YUL TEN O87.
Beth Hanlon, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Assisted with verification, labeling and cataloging of the GCA slide collection, May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Dianne Hilborn, Bachelors Candidate, Michigan State University. Office of Horticulture, revised maintenance manual and assisted in maintenance of Horticulture exhibition, September 14, 1987 through December 11, 1987.
Patricia A. Swartz, High School, Westtown School. Greenhouse, potted, watered, weeded, etc., February 23, 1987 through March 6, 1987.
Jeffery Beranek, Bachelors Candidate. Assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Christian Crute, University of North Carolina. Assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Geoffrey C. Blackwell, High School Graduate. Wilton Dillon, research assistant, June 8, 1987 through August 10, 1987.
Sigisbert Ratier. Served as research assistant to Director in completion of manuscript on THE STATUE OF LIBERTY: THE ULTIMATE GIFT: liaison with French and U.S. institutions in planning commemoration of Bicentennial of the French Revolution; and prepared for "Science, Ethics and Food" symposium, September 14, 1987 through October 9, 1987.
Marco Paulo Alvim, Fundacao Casa de Rui Barbosa. Trained in the organization and development of museum exhibition programs, September 14, 1987 through December 18, 1987.
Sharonne Jenkins, High School Graduate. Researched activities of interest to Native American museum professionals, designed a format for a twelve month calendar; assisted with writing newsletter articles; compiled a calendar for newsletter, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Craig Locklear, Visiting Professional. Native American Museums Program, designed a brochure for the Native American Indian Program and spent one day a week at the Resident Associate Program, September 29, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

<<<Page: 116>>>

Cheryl Smith, Bachelors Degree. Native American Museums Program, assisted with writing and editing the Native American Museums Program newsletter and with overall office functions, September 20, 1987 through December ll, 1987.
Karla Smith, High School Graduate. Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion, Summer Intern 1987 program and Career Awareness Program, June 8, 1987 through July 10, 1987.
Dexter Glen. Electrical Facility, reset circuit breakers, re-lamped light
fixtures, and performed minor maintenance, June 28, 198/ through August 14, 1987.
Brian Foster, High School. Duplicating Branch, processed printed material: collated, stapled, and proofed, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
James Harrison, High School. Duplicating Branch, processed printed material: collated, stapled and proofed, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Christ
opher Haze, Bachelor's Candidate. Assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Suzanne Hubbell, High School Graduate. Assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.
Ricardo Lacy, High School. Preserved and collated records, assisted photogra-
pher and dark room technician, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,
Laura E. Lanier, Bachelor's Candidate, Goucher College. Assisted Branch Chief
with special photo assignments, including taking photographs and processing film, June 8, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Pedro Chin, High School. Training Office, performed clerical and receptionist duties for an international museum conference, June 29, 1987/7 through August 14, 1987,
Damon Gaston, High School. Performed clerical and receptionist duties for an international museum conference, June 29, 1987/7 through August 14, 1987.
Ruth Migliorelli, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Health Services Division, assisted program manager with counseling and health techniques, January 12, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
George B. Rodenburg, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Office of Safety Programs, assisted with safety inspections, January 5, 1987 through January 9, 1987.
Martin G. White, High School. Assisted Deputy Chief in security operations, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Michele C. Benson, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

<<<Page: 117>>>

Lena M. Hernandez, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Assisted with production responsibilities, story writing and analyzing usage of Smithsonian News Service and The Torch newspaper, May 18, 1987 through August 12, 1987.
Mari Beth McQuaite, Bachelors Candidate, Villanova University. Assisted with production responsibilities, storywriting and analyzing usage of Smithsonian News Service and The Torch newspaper, January 28, 1987 through May 8, 1987.
MeiPu Yang, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Worked on database for registrar methods material, May 8, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Lara L. Goodman, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Public Affairs, prepared
publicity and information on Resident Associate Program events in the Performing Arts, educational, and cultural areas; disseminated this
information to media and community, May ll, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Brenda Kwan, Bachelors Candidate, Sweet Briar College. Discovery Theater, managed audiences, assisted sales coordinator with reserving tickets, assisted theater director with preparation of education materials, January 5, 1987 through January 28, 1987.
Mary M. Patton, Bachelors Candidate, Towson State University. Office of Public Affairs, prepared publicity and information on events in the performing arts, educational and cultural areas; disseminated information to media and the community, July 22, 1987 through December 11, 1987.
Robert A. Schiller, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Discovery
Theater, assisted in sales and audience development for the Discovery Theater, May 18, 1987 through July 24, 1987.
Mark Edward Chasse, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Arranged and described records of Division of Reptiles and Amphibians, National Museum of Natural History, September 28, 1987 through December 4, 1987.
Monica Drake, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Described and
arranged the records of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1950-1962, September 14, 1987 through November 20, 1987.
Lisa Balduman, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York. Plant EcolOgy, studied "Vine and Herb Ecology," January 19, 1987 through July 24, 1987.
Sarah J. Chamberlain, Bachelors Degree, University of South Carolina. Studied the effects of elevated C02 on marsh ecosystem, May 4, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

<<<Page: 118>>>

Elizabeth English, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia. Researched pollination ecology of wild radishes, June 15, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Amy Fanning, Bachelors Degree, Southampton College. Worked on estuarine fish biology, May 4, 1987 through September 25, 1987.
Joanne Feldman, Bachelors Degree. Assistant Director's Office, studied acid atmospheric deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, March 2, 1987 through May 22, 1987.
Suzanne Hill, Bachelors Candidate, Towson State University. Researched response of brackish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide,
June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Mary Howe, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Researched community structure and population dynamics of phytoplankton in estuary, June l, through August 14, 1987.
Ramona O'Halloran, Bachelors Degree. Studied foraging behavior of ants, September 18, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Darius Nassiry, Bachelors Candidate, Carleton College. Researched response of brackish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, June 15, 1987 through September 4, 1987.
Donald Norman, Masters Candidate, Huxley College, West Virginia. Studied habitat utilization by migratory warblers, May 4, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Michael Rogers, Bachelors Candidate, North Carolina State. Worked on acid deposition, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Michael Sacopulos, Bachelors Candidate, Bowdoin College. Studied acid atmosphere deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, June 15, 1987 through Juyest 7) 1987.
Toni Washuta, Bachelors Candidate, Evergreen State College. Studied community structure and population biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary, June 8, 1987 through September 11, 1987.
Erin Watts, Towson State University. Researched community structure and population biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary, August 1/7, 1987 through November 13, 1987.
Francoise Brown. Assisted with book binding and book conservation, August 18, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Katnryn Kiaunis, Bachelors Candidate. Museum Reference Center, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Ora Michaely, Masters Degree, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem. Worked on book conservation and book binding, August 18, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Mary Pound. Book Conservation Lab, performed treatments on materials, September 21, 1987 through September 20, 1988.
Martha-Luci Sierra, Masters Degree. Conservation Laboratory, worked on paper conservation of flat papers, March 9, 1987 through June 15, 1987.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS Elizabeth D. McLean, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Smithsonian
Books, assisted in publishing areas, June 8, 1987 through August 28, 1987.

<<<Page: 119>>>

Benjamin Simmons, assisted with archival project involving editorial processing of film; trained in aspects of advertising procedures as they pertain to magazine production, June 29, 198/ through August 14, 1987.
Nancy M. Perry, Masters Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College.
Travel, replaced registrar for Washington "Anytime" Weekend while she accompanied a Smithsonian trip, June 10, 1987 through August 28, 1987.
Rachel Bernhardt, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Museum Studies Program, provided project assistance to the coordinator of an exhibition on the folk art of older Americans, May 12, 1987 through September 30, 1987. ae
Wm. Frank Mitchell, Masters Candidate, Yale University. Researched, June 8, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Kyu H. Park, Museum Professional, Museum in Seoul. Learned to organize exhibitions and studied museum management, February 2, 1987 through April 30, 1987.
Maria del Carmen Cossu Saettone, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University of Peru. Provided research support to exhibition coordinator for traveling
exhibition on tropical rain forests, researched exhibit content, photography, and education programs, June 1, 1987 through December 1, 1987. SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Hector Barrios V., Ph.D, Instituto de Zoologia, URSS. Barro Colorado Island, studied exclusive male parental care in the Neotropical Harvestman Zygopachylus albemarginis (Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), August 3, 1987 through January 3, 1988.
Aura Estela Correa, Bachelors Candidate, University of Panama. Barro Colorado Island, studied mating and social evolution in Zoroptera, November 24, 1986 through April 10, 1987.
Eyda L. Gomez, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Panama. Studied biomechanics and biology of flight in butterflies, August 3, 1987 through October 30, 1987.
Plinio A. Gondola Diaz, Bachelors Degree, Fundacao Universidade de Rio Grande. Researched spawning settlement and growth of reef fishes, September 14, 1987 through November 6, 1987.
Franklin Guardia, Bachelors Degree, University of Panama. Studied development of tropical forest edge vegetation and the effects of edges on forest structure, February 17, 1987 through March 17, 1987. Worked on effect of predators, plant quality and maternal guarding on reproductive success of Acromis sparsa, April 2/7, 1987 through July 17, 1987.
E. Cybele Londono S., Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Los Andes. Barro Colorado Island, studied interactions between the insect herbivores of young leaves, February 22, 1987 through June 22, 1987.

<<<Page: 120>>>

Jose Luis Machado Torres, Bachelors Degree, Universidad do Los Anges. Barro Colorado Island, studied patterns of leaf development in tropical species implications for carbon gain and herbivory, September /, 1987 through December 7, 1987.
Miguel Marmolejo, Centro de Investigaciones de Q. Roo. Barro Colorado Island, illustrated flora of seedlings of Panamanian tropical forest with special emphasis on Barro Colorado Island, March 16, 1987 through June 13, 1987.
Albeloel Miranda, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Rio Grande. Naos Lab, worked on spawning settlement and growth in reef fishes, April 27, 1987 through October 7, 1987.
Luis Ernesto Medina Bravo, Universidad de Panama. Ancon, studied the reproductive behavior and energetics of glass frogs, genus Centrolenella, September 1, 1987 through December 1, 1987.
Marta C. Moreno, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Panama. Ancon, studied color polymorphism in Chelymorpha alternans, July 20, 1987 through October 31, 1987.
Elizabeth Padron, Bachelors Degree, Universidad Central de Venezuela. San Blas, studied predatory behaviour of some reef fishes, April 6, 1987 through October 2, 1987.
Marcela Quinones, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Los Andes. Summit Gardens, made census of iguana hatchlings, July 7, 1987 through October 7, 1987.
Jorge A. Lobo Segura, Masters Degree, Universidad de Costa Rica. San Jose, studied kinship structure in social wasp colonies, April 1, 1987 through June 30, 1987.
Jorge F. Silva, Bachelors Degree, University of Panama. Studied kingfisher's behavior at Cascajal River (Portobelo), March 26, 1987 through June 17, 1987.
William Breslin, Bachelors Candidate, Hobart College. American Society and Politics, assisted with research in American history and politics, January 5, 1987 through May 13, 1987.
Pamela A. Jordan, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Worked as a research assistant, December 29, 1986 through January 31, 1987.
Betsy Martin, Masters Candidate, Middlebury College Russian. Worked as a
research assistant on turn-of-century Russian philosophy, December 29, 1986 through May 31, 1987.

<<<Page: 121>>>

Chris Barkan, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York. Foraging birds, with Dr. James Lynch, from June 15, 1987 through June 15, 1988.
Peter DeFur, Visiting Scientist, George Mason University. Oxygen uptake of blue crabs during ecdysis at low salinity, with Dr. Anson Hines, from July 1, 1987 through August 20, 1988.
Laura A. Nye, Graduate Fellow, North Carolina State University. Telemetric analysis of foraging and movement by Callinectes sapidus (Rathbun) , with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 5, 1987 through May 4, 1988.
Martin Posey, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Oregon. The role of predatory shrimp in structuring an estuarine bottom community, with Dr. Anson Hines, from August 1, 1987 through July 31, 1988.
Parke Rublee, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Whitman College. The microbial
loop _in_the Rhode River estuary, role of microzooplankton and the effect of suspended sediments on microzooplankton predation, with Dr. Charles Gallegos, from June I, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Michael Shirley, Graduate Fellow, North Carolina State University. Selective pressures affecting habitat selection b remolt male and pubertal female blue crabs Callinectes sapidus (Rathbun), with Dr. Anson H. Hines, from April 1, 1987 through November 6, 1987.
L. David Smith, Visiting Graduate Student, University of Maryland. The ecological impact of autotomy on the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 1, 1987 through September 30, 1987.
Allison Snow, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Massachusetts. Male and female reproductive success of a woodland orchid, Tipularia discolor, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from October 1, 1987 through July 31, 1988.
Mark Southerland, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina. Behavioral ecology of coexisting generalist ant species, with Dr. James Lynch, from January 1, 1987 through June 30, 1987.
Timothy Spira, Visiting Scholar, Georgia Southern College. Complete research on pollen competition in Hibiscus moschentos (Malvaceae), with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 23, 1987 through September 13, 1987.
James Stretch, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Santa Barbara. Role of emergent plankton in regulating infaunal patchiness, with Dr. Anson Hines, from March 1, 1986 through March 20, 1987.
Lisa K. Wagner, Visiting Scholar, Georgia Southern College. The reproductive success of Poa annua, P. pratensis, and P. bulbosa in disturbed habitats, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 23, 1987 through September 13, 1987.
Thomas G. Wolcott, Research Associate and Professor, North Carolina State University. Telemetric analysis of movement, habitat utilization
and, foraging in ue crabs allinectes sapidus), wi r. Anson Hines, from July 1987 through October 1987.

<<<Page: 122>>>

Lisa Balduman, B.S., State University of New York. Vine and Herb Ecology, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from January October 1987.
Nancy Bretz, Volunteer Research Assistant, B.S., Mills College. The use of stable isotopes for the study of nutrient dynamics, with Dr. David Correll, from September 1986 through August 1987.
Sybil Carrere, Volunteer Research Assistant, Ph.D. Candidate, University of California at Irvine. Estuarine ecology and physiological aspects of stress, with Dr. Anson Hines, from March 1, 1986 through March 20, 1987.
Sarah Chamberlain, B.S., University of South Carolina. Response of brackish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, with Dr. Bert Drake, from May November 1987.
Elizabeth English, B.S. Candidate, University of Virginia. Pollination ecology of wild radishes, with Dr. Allison Snow, from January August 1987.
Amy Fanning, B.S., Long Island University. Estuarine fish biology, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May November 1987.
Joanne Feldman, B.S., Huxley College. Acid atmospheric deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, with Dr. David Correll, from March May 1987.
Suzanne Hill, B.S. Candidate, Towson State University. Response of brackish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, with Dr. Bert Drake, from June August 1987.
Mary Howe, B.A., Mount Holyoke College. Community structure and population dynamics of phytoplankton in an estuary, with Dr. Charles Gallegos,
from June November 1987.
Darius Nassiry, B.S. Candidate, Carleton College. Response of brackish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, with Dr. Bert Drake, from June September 1987.
Donald Norman, M.S. Candidate, Huxley College. Habitat utilization by migratory warblers, with Dr. James Lynch, from May August 1987.
Ramona O'Halloran, B.A., Swarthmore College. Habitat utilization by migratory warbdlers, with Dr. James Lynch, from September 1987 January 1988.
Micnael Rogers, B.S. Candidate, North Carolina State University. Acid atmospheric deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, with Dr. David Correll, from June August 1987.
Michael Sacopulos, B.S. Candidate, Bowdoin College. Acid amospheric deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, with Dr. David Correll, from June August 1987.
Melanie Sutton, B.S., University of California at San Diego. Chicadee foraging behavior, with Dr. Chris Barkan, from September November 1987.
Toni Washuta, B.S. Candidate, Evergreen State University. Community struc-
ture and population biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary,
with Dr. Anson Hines, from June September 1987.
Erin Watts, B.S., Town State University. Community structure and population biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary, with Dr. Anson
Hines, from August November 1987.

<<<Page: 123>>>

Program in Tropical Biology
Eldridge Stevens Adams III, Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of California, Berkeley. The Behavioral Ecology of Queen Number in Nasutitermes corniger (Isoptera:Termitidae), with Dr. Mary Jane West-Eberhard, from January 1, 1988 through December 31, 1988
Brian Bock, Visiting Scientist, University of Tennessee. Iguana Management Possibilities through the Study and Manipulation of Nesting, Juvenile, and Adult Iguana Habitats, with Dr. James Karr, from January 1, 1987 through June 30, 1988.
Jeffrey D. Brawn, Visiting Scientist, Northern Arizona University. Avian Population and Community Ecology in the Understory of Moist Lowland Forests, Central Panama, with Dr. James Karr, from March 15, 1987 through September 30, 1987.
Jae Chun Choe, Predoctoral Fellowship, Harvard University. Mating System and Social Evolution in Zoraptera, with Dr. William Eberhard, from October 15 to December 15, 1986, February 1 to August 15, 1987, and February 1 to May 15, 1988.
Philip James DeVries, Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of Texas. The Biology and Evolution of an Association and Nectar Feeding in Larval Riodinid Butterflies, with Drs. Donald Windsor and Stephen Hubbell, from September 1987 through September 1988.
Andrew John Green, Graduate Student Fellow, Wolfson College. The Relationship between Foraging Success and Mating Success in Male Tungara Frogs Physalaemus pustulosus, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from July 6 through September 21, 1987.
David John Hughes, Postdoctoral Fellow, University College of North Wales. Genetic and Environmental Correlates of Polymorphism in Marine Bryozoa, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from June 1, 1987 through May 31, 1988.
Rachel Levin, Postdoctoral Fellowship, Cornell University. Male and Female Reproductive Strategies in a Tropical Wren Thryothorus nigricapillus, with Dr. Neal Smith, from February 1 to July 31, 1988 and February 1 to July 31, 1989.
Jane Molofsky, Graduate Student Fellowship, University of Illinois. The Effect of Litterfall on the Germination and Early Establishment of Tropical Trees, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from June 1 through August 7, 1987.

<<<Page: 124>>>

Steven Gaines Morgan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. The Effect of Fish Predation on Hatching Rhythyms of Brachyurans: the Tracking of a Complex Environment, with Dr. John Christy, from December 1, 1986 through December 1, 1987.
Daniel E. Morse, Regent Fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara. Environmental, Biochemical and Genetic Factors Controlling the Reproduction and Recruitment of Panamanian Reef Corals and Associated Fauna, for 12 weeks in 1987 and 12 weeks in 1988.
Christopher William Petersen, University of Arizona, Postdoctoral Fellowship. Sexual Selection and Sexual Size Dimorphism in Fishes with Paternal Care, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from September 27, 1987 through September 26, 1988.
Anthony James Ranere, Senior Postdoctoral Fellowship, Temple University. Environments, Human Settlement and Subsistence in the Seasonal Tropics of Central Panama--the last 10,000 years, with Dr. Richard Cooke, from September 1, 1987 through August 31, 1988.
Kyle Summers, Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Michigan.
Reproductive Strategies in Dendrobates auratus and Dendrobates histrionicus, with Drs. A. Stanley Rand and Naney Knowlton, from January 1 through December 31, 1988.
Short-term Fellowships in Tropical Biology
Mark Alfano, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Predation and the Evolution of Anuran Advertisement Calls, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from July 1 through August 30, 1987.
Charlton Carscallen, B.S. candidate, Trent University, Canada. Faunal Analysis of Zapotal Site, with Dr. Richard Cooke, from February 1 through April-30,; 1987.
Monique Giausserand, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Zapotal: Coastal Adaptations in Central Panama (3000 BC 1200 BC), with Dr. Richard Cooke, from February 1 through April 30, 1987.
Jillian W. Gregg, Ph.D. candidate, University of Utah. Variation of Winged Leaf Rachises in Relation to Environment in Tropical Plants, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from January 1 to March 31, 1988.
Anita Hayworth, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Davis. Microclimate and Heat Budget of the High Intertidal Limpet Siphonaria gigas, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from November 1, 1987 through January 31, 1988.
Joshua Hayes, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Investigations into the Feeding Ecology and Impact of the Corallivorous Gastropod, Coralliophila abbreviata, with Dr. Nancy Knowlton, from September 21 through December 14, 1987.

<<<Page: 125>>>

Kaoru Kitajima, Ph.D. candidate, University of Illinois. Comparative Study of Photosynthetic and Growth Characteristics of Neotropical Tree Seedlings on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Alan Smith, from June 4 through August 3, 1987.
Robin Manasse, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Davis. Genetic, Anatomical and Ecological Correlates of Seed Size Variation in Crinum erubescens (Amaryllidaceae), with Dr. Joseph Wright, from June 1 to June 30,. 1987:
David M. Olson, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Davis. The Effects of Elevation on the Ant Fauna and Other Litter Organisms of Tropical Moist Forests in Panama, with Dr. Donald Windsor, from June 22 through September 4, 1987.
Stephen Pratt, B.S. candidate, Harvard College. Foraging and Recruitment Behavior in the Ponerine Genera Ectatomma and Odontomachus, with Dr. Donald Windsor, from April 11 through July 11, 1987.
Andrew Stuart Pullin, Ph.D., University of Leeds, United Kingdom. Environmental Control of Life-History Strategies in Tropical Lepidoptera, with Dr. Donald Windsor, from November 22, 1987 through January 17, 1988.
David Stern, B.S. candidate, Cornell University. The Behavior and Morphology of Male Euglossine Bees, with Dr. David Roubik, from February 1 through May 31, 1988.
David A. Wiedenfeld, Ph.D. candidate, Florida State University. Ecomorphology and Foraging Behavior of Resident and Migrant Populations of the Yellow Warbler, Dendroica petechia, with Dr. Neal Smith, from January 15 through February 27, 1987.
Exxon Fellowship & Assistantship Program
Onel Arias, Exxon Fellowship Extension, Universidad de Panama. Evaluacién Hidrogrdfica del Rio Abudi, with Dr. James Karr, from February 16 through August 15, 1987.
Eliseo Hector Barrios, Exxon Assistantship, Zoology Institute USSR. Exclusive Male Parental Care in the Neotropical Harvestman, Zygopachylus albomarginis (Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), with Giselle Mora, from August 3, 1987 through January 3, 1988.
Rita Bethancourt, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Efecto de Fertilizacién con P y N en la Formacién de Micorrizas y Rhizobium en el Crecimiento Temprano de Acacia mangium, with Dr. Gilberto Ocafia, from August 3 through November 3, 1987.
Aura Correa, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panamd. Mating System and Social Evolution in Zoroptera, with Jae Choe, from November 24, 1986 through May 8, 1987.

<<<Page: 126>>>

Eyda Luz Gomez, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Biomechanics and Ecology of Flight in Butterflies, with Dr. Robert Dudley, from September 14 through December 11, 1987.
Plinio A. Gondola, Exxon Assistantship, Fundacao Universidade do Rio Grande, Brazil. Spawning Settlement and Growth in Reef Fishes, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from September 14 through October 30, 1987.
Franklin Guardia, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Development of Tropical Forest Edge Vegetation and the Effect to Proximity to the Edge on Forest Structure, with Guadalupe Williams, from February 18 through March 25, 1987.
Franklin Guardia, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panamd. Effect of Predators, Plant Quality and Maternal Guarding on the Reproductive Success of Acromis sparsa, with Dr. Donald Windsor, from April 27 through July 17, 1987.
Heraclio Herrera, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. El Uso de las Plantas en la Medicina Tradicional en el Oeste de Kuna Yala (San Blas), Panama, with Dr. Gordon McPherson, from May 3 through November 3, 1987.
Daniel Holness, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Identificacién de Especies que Puedan Utilizarse en Educacién Ambiental dentro del Parque Metropolitano, with Dr. James Karr and Jorge Ventocilla, from February 17 through May 17, 1987
Daniel Holness, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Estimacidén de la Biomasa y la Productividad de Hydrilla verticillata en dos Sitios en la Isla de Barro Colorado, with Dr. Alan Smith, from August 3 through November 3, 1987.
Yolanda Jimenez, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panamd. Identificacién de Especies que Puedan Utilizarse en Educacién Ambiental dentro del Parque Metropolitano, with Dr. James Karr and Jorge Ventocilla, from February 17 through May 17, 1987.
Yolanda Jimenez, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Estudio Bacteriolégico de Playas de Anidacidén de Lepidochelys olivacea, with Dr. Haris Lessios, from August 3 through November 3, 1987.
Jorge Lobo, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Costa Rica. El Parentesco y su Estructura en Colonias de Avispas Sociales, with Dr. Mary Jane West-Eberhard, from April 1 through June 30, 1987.
E. Cybele Londofio, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de los Andes, Colombia. Interactions between Insect Herbivores and the Phenologies of Their Host Plants, with Mitch Aide, from March 1 through June 15, 1987.
Jose Luis Machado, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de los Andes, Colombia. Patterns of Leaf Development in Tropical Species: Implications for Carbon Gain and Herbivory, with Drs. Phyllis Coley and Tom Kursar, from September 14 through December 14, 1987.

<<<Page: 127>>>

Miguel Marmolejo, Exxon Assistantship, Centro de Investigaciones de Quintana Roo, Mexico. Illustrated Flora of Seedlings of Panamanian Tropical Moist Forest, Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Nancy Garwood, from March 15 through June 14, 1987.
Luis E. Medina, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panamd. The Reproductive Behavior and Energetics of Glass Frogs, genus Centrolenella, with Roberto Ibafiez, from September 1 through December 1, 1987.
Albeloel Miranda, Exxon Assistantship, Fundacao Universidade do Rio Grande, Brazil. Spawning Settlement and Growth in Reef Fishes, with Ross Robertson, from April 27 through August 21, 1987.
Marta C. Moreno, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Estudio Genético en el Polimorfismo de Color en Chelymorpha alternans (Parque Soberania, Panama), with Dr. Donald Windsor, from July 20 through October 16° 198%
Elizabeth Padrdn, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad Central de Venezuela. Predatory Behavior of Some Reef Fishes, with Dr. Hugh Sweatman, from April 6 through October 2, 1987.
Marcela Quifiones, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Los Andes, Colombia. Survival of Hatchling Iguanas in the Wild, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from July 7, 1987 through January 7, 1988.
Jorge Silva, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Sex Role Reversal in Neotropical Kingfishers, with Dr. William Davis, from March 26 through June 15, 1987.
Eyda J. Timm, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Estudio Bacteriolégico de Playas de Anidacidén de Lepidochelys olivacea, with Dr. Haris Lessios, from August 3 through November 3, 1987.
Luis Wong, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Isolation and Characterization of Chemical Principles from the Anal Gland of Pelamis platurus, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, from March through August 1987.
Other Fellowship and Internship Programs
Jaime Cavelier, Noyes Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom. The Cost of Growth and Maintenance of Fine Root Systems in Lowland and Montane Rainforests, with Dr. Alan Smith, from August 15, 1987 through March 15, 1988.
Rosendo Fraga, Senior Sabbatical, University of California, Santa
Barbara. Host-Parasite Interactions between the Oropendola Gymnostinops montezumae and the Giant Cowbird Scaphidura oryzivora in the Postfledgling Stage, with Dr. Neal Smith, from June 1 through August 31, 1987.

<<<Page: 128>>>

Jurgen Hoth v.d. Meden, Alton Jones Internship, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico. Behavioral Studies of the Paca (Agouti_ paca) in Semicaptivity, with Dr. Nicholas Smythe, from September 1, 1986 through June 15, 1987.
Roberto Ibafiez, Noyes Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Connecticut. The Reproductive Behavior and Energetics of Glass Frogs, Genus Centrolenella, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from May 15 through December 15, 1987.
Kizhakkedathu Mathai Kochummen, Senior Sabbatical, Forest Research Institute, Malaysia. Flora of Pasoh Research Forest, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from July 1, 1986 through June 30, 1987.
Giselle Mora, Noyes Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Florida. Exclusive Male Parental Care in the Harvestmen Zygopachylus albomarginis (Arachnida, Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), with Dr. Donald Windsor, from July 1 through December 31, 1987 and from July 1 through December 31, 1988.
Gustavo Rodriguez, Alton Jones Internship, Universidad Simon Bolivar, Venezuela. Monitoring of Agouti Populations in Selected Areas for Management, with Dr. Nicholas Smythe, from August 15, 1986 through December 15, 1987.
Other Visiting Scholars
Stephen T. Emlen, Short-Term Visitor, Cornell University. Social Behavior of Wattled Jacanas, with Drs. James Karr and Neal Smith, from April 1 through June 15, 1987.
Leo J. Fleishman, Short-Term Visitor, University of Texas at Austin. Prey Localization in Crocodilians, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from April 13 through April-26,1987
Peter Jung, Short-Term Visitor, Natural History Museum, Switzerland. Inventory of Neogene Faunas (Mollusks) in Bocas del Toro, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from July 31 through August 27, 1987.
Gabor Lovei, Short-Term Visitor, Plant Protection Institute, Hungary. Evaluation of Light Trap Catches, with Dr. Hindrik Wolda, from May 31 through June 22, 1987.
Stephen S. Mulkey, Short-Term Visitor, University of Missouri. Diurnal Variation in Atmospheric Drought and Schedules of Carbon Gain and Water Loss in Understory Species, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from December 14 through January 10, 1987.
Hermann H. Remmert, Short-Term Visitor, Fachbereich Biologie der Universitat, Marburg, West Germany. Patch Dynamics in Forest Ecosystems, with Dr. Hindrik Wolda, from July 5 through July 19, 1987.

<<<Page: 129>>>

Michael J. Ryan, Short-Term Visitor, University of Texas at Austin. Sexual Selection and Sound Localization in the Frog Physalaemus pustulosus, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from July 1 through July 31, 1987.
Isaac J. Schlosser, Short-Term Visitor, University of North Dakota. Land Use and Stream Ecosystems, with Dr. James Karr, from March 27 through May 3 sl Qos
Leila M. Shultz, Short-Term Visitor, Utah State University. Investigations in Leaf Anatomy, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from March 23 through April 8, 1987.
John Sperry, Short-Term Visitor, University of Vermont. Water Stress Physiology of Trees, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from February 1 through February 28, 1987.
Nellie M. Stark, Short-Term Visitor, University of Montana. The Influence of Excess Leaching on Weathering and Mycorrhizal Uptake of Nutrients, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 5 through July 18, 1987.
Melvin Tyree, Short-Term Visitor, University of Vermont. Water Stress Physiology of Trees, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from February 1 through February 28, 1987.
Paul Weldon, Short-Term Visitor, Texas A & M University. The Proximate Cues Used by Pacific Snappers to Identify the YellowBellied Sea Snake, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, from June 6 through August 17, 1987.
Walter Wilczynski, Short-Term Visitor, University of Texas at Austin. Behavioral and Neural Mechanisms by which Neotropical Frogs Organize Themselves within a Breeding Chorus, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from June 23 through July 14, 1987.
Truman P. Young, Short-Term Visitor, University of Miami. Investigations of Canopy Shapes, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from February 1 through March 25, 1987.
Volunteers
James Robert Duran, worked on scanning the literature in the STRI Library, from October 1986 through September 1987.
Sarah Flick, worked on the causes and consequences of rarity and distributions of certain tree species, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from January through May 1987.
Joseph P. Garofalo, worked as electronics technician with Dr. Haris Lessios, from August 31 through September 30, 1987.
Corina S. Hinkle, worked on reviewing the literature in the STRI Library, from October 1986 through September 1987.

<<<Page: 130>>>

Mary Ragoza, worked on a remapping of trails and streams in the Forest Dynamics Plot, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, during April 1987.
John Reese, worked on an assessment of flowering conditions of Ceiba
pentandra and Cavanalesia planifolia, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, during February 1987.
Bob Stamper, worked on a detailed map of seedlings and saplings of an endemic shrub with a clumped distribution, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, during August 1987.
Francisco Ulloa, worked on the diving behavior of the yellow bellied sea snake, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, from April through June 1987.
Deborah Wallace Dupuy, worked on the Panama bibliography in the STRI Library, from December 1986 through September 1987.
Carolyn White, worked general duties in the STRI Library, from June through August 1987.
Clarita A. S. Wright, worked on the Panama bibliography in the STRI Library, from October 1986 through September 1987.
Michael Brand, Sackler Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Harvard University. "Garden, City and Empire: The Historical Geography of Mughal Lahore," with Milo C. Beach from June 1, 1987, through September 30, 1987.
Cao Yin, Sackler Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Beijing University. "All Aspects of Museum Operations," with staff members of the Freer Gallery of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery from <september 30, 1987 through June 30, 1988.
Mathew Kercher, Smithsonian Fellow. Ph.D. Candidate, Princeton University. "Calligraphy of Pa-ta Shan-jen (1626-1705), with Dr. Shen C. Y. Fu from September 21, 1987, through September 20, 1988.
Ingrid Larsen, Freer Fellow. Ph.D. Candidate, University of Michigan. "Huang Shen, Qing Dynasty Painters Known as Yangshou Eccentrics," with Dr. Shen C. Y. Fu from January 12, 1987, through May 30, 1987.
John Siewert, Smithsonian Fellow, Ph.D. Candidate, University of Michigan.
"The Nocturnes of James McNeill Whistler," with Dr. Linda Merrill from September 1, 1987, through August 31, 1988.
Song Xiangguang, Sackler Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Beijing University. "All Aspects of Museum Operations," with staff members of the Freer Gallery of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery from September 30, 1987 through June 30, 1988.
Jan Stuart, Smithsonian Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Princeton University. "Researching and Cataloging the 16th-Century Zhe School of Paintings," with Dr. Shen C. Y. Fu from April 15, 1987, through April 14, 1988.
Wheeler Thackston, Jr., Rockefeller Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Harvard University. "Princely Art in 15th-Century Iran: The House of Timur," with Dr. Glenn Lowry from June 9, 1987, through September 30, 1987.
Som P, Verma, Fulbright Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Aligarh Muslim University. "The Study of Mughal Paintings and Other Related Indian Schools," with Dr. Milo C. Beach from July 1, 1987, through November 15, 1987.
nH pV to

<<<Page: 131>>>

Regents Fellcw
W.D. Kingery, Ph.D., Recents Fellew, Artifact Intersretaticn ard the Rise of Pictorial Traditicns in the Ceramics of 5th c. Greece, 19th c. Islam i5th cs. Ttaiv ard the aarly Qing Dynasty of China: Mceels for the Intaractien cf Seciaty and Techrelecy, from September 1987 threush Sectember 1988.
Felicws
Nancy Bencs, Ph.D., Pestdcctoral Fellcw in Material Analysis, SUNY at Binchamtcsn, NY. Comeesiticon Techrolecist Variability: Am arercach to the studv of cotzery scecializaticen in ancient scciety, with Jaccueline S. Olin ard M. James Blaciman, from February 1986 tarcuch Jamcary 1987.
Rebert Enrenreich, Ph.D., Pestdcectcral Fellcw in Materials Analysis, Cxford University, Unitad xXincdem, The State of iren techrolcecy in Roman Ceominated Britain, with Jacqueline 8. Clin and Rey S. Clarke, Jz., for Cctccer 1, 1985 thrcuch Lecemrer 31, 1986.
Resemary Gianno, Ph.D., Pestcdcctoral Felicw in Materiais Analysis, Yale University, New Haven, CT. The Araivsis ard Identizicaticn of Scutheast Asian Resins, with Cavid ven Exct, from Ferrvary 1, 1986 tarcuch Jamuary 31, 1987.
Hectcr Neff, Pu.D., Pestacctsral Fellcw in Materials Analysis. University of Califcrmia at Santa Barbara. Arolicaticn of mitivariat2 patterm-recccniticn and statistical crececures to ceramic intersretaticon, with Dr. Renald Bishco and Dr. Frederick J. Bove, foo Nevemrer 1986 threuch April 1988.
Int2ars
Ann EBcultsn, Pestsracuat2 Conservaticn Intern, Stat2 University Collece at Buffalo, NY, Art Conservaticn [Lecariment. Svecial orojects in Chiects Conservaticn, with Carcl A. Grissem, from Cctcrer 1, 1986, threuch Sectamrer 30, 1987.
Lymn Brestsf£, Masters decree, New York University. Parer Ccrservaticn, 3ra year intermshis, Research and Treatment, with Tim Vitale, Cctcker 1, 1986 threuch Sectamber 15, 1987.
Michelle 2. Hamill, Bachelors Decrse, Cherlin Collece. Parer Conservaticn Laboratory, compiled bibliccrarhy of tarer conservaticn-related oroject, with Tim Vitale, also worked cn the conseryaticn of a Victorian folding sersen and a science project cn the effects cf acquecus licht bleaching on paver, Jume 1, 1987 threuch Avcust 21, 1987: Parer Lakeratory, worked cn carer conservaticn, with Diarre van cer Reyden, Sectember 1, 1987 tharcuch May 31, 1988.
Laura Hazlett, Summer Inter, Textile Conservaticn Lakeratory. May-July, 1987.

<<<Page: 132>>>

Jefti=sy Ximball, Conservaticn Intern, Institute of Archaeolesy, Universit; ef Lereen, Work amd Stucv in Cbhiects Conservation, with Carol A. Grissan, foom July 13 threuch Seotamber 18, 1987.
Ingrid Lucsna, Conservator, Naticnal Gallery of Art, Caracas, Verezuela. Paintincs Conservation. Exeminaticn and Treatment of Smithscnian Collecticns, with Roland H. Cumnincham, from Seotsember 25, 1986 tarcuch September 15, 1987.
Esther Methe, Summer Intern, Textile Conservation Laboratory. May-July, 1987.
Theresa Power, Conservaticn Intern, Art Conservaticn Precram, University of Delaware/Wintershur Museum, Work and Stucy in Chiects Conservaticn, with Carol A. Grisscm, June 1 thareuch July 24, 1987.
Deborah Schcecs, Pestoracuate Conservaticn Intarm. Paintinss Conservaticn, Instituto per Arte e il Restauro, Florence, Italy. Exaeminaticn and Treatment of Gmithscnian Collecticns, with Roland 4H. Cumnincham, from Seotamrer 15, 1986 threuch April 30, 1987.
Resemarie Seln, Summer Intern, Textile Conservaticn Laboratcr;. July-Sestember, 1987.
Jill Sicman, Summer Intern, Textile Ccnservaticn Laboratory. July-Sestember, 1987.
Constance Stromberg, Pestsracduat2 Conservyaticn Intarn, Art Conservaticn Precram, University of Delaware/Wintertomur Museum. Srecial vrojects in Cbiects Conservaticn, with Carol A. Grissem, frem Cctcber 5, 1986, tarcucgh Sectember 30, 1987.
Visiting Lacturers
Marylcu Davis, Scuthbridse, Massachussetts. "Sistcric Painted Finishes!,
Cari Eck2iman, Ph.D., Collece of Forest=y, Purdue University. "Structural Analysis ef Furniture",
Michael Ettema, Ph.D., Curator of Demestic Lifts, Henry Ferd Musemm. "cst Incust=ial Revoluticn American Furniture’,
Ian Frsestsre, British Museum Research Laboratcry
Wallace Guslar, Director of Conservaticn, Colcnial Williamsburg. ‘re Incustzial Revoluticn American Purmiture’’,
Wallace Gesler, Directcr of Conservaticn, Colcnial Wililiamsburc. Wty yan.
Rese Ker=, Decuty xXeecer, Far Zastern Lecarment, Victoria and Albert Museum, Leoncen.
Greg Larcrsy, Pormmitura Conservator, H. F. Durent Winterthur Museum. "Structural Conservaticn of Furniture’,
Lavid Ray Pine, Mt. Crawferd, Virginia. ‘Inlay Manufacture’.
Victsr ven Reventicw, Brocklyn New York. '"Conservaticn of Marquetzy and Boulle—weork.
Victor ven Reventlicw, Breoklyn NY. "Structure of Eurccean Furnitiure!!.
James Rice, Ph.D., Collese cf Ferestzy, University of Gecroia. ‘'Achesives Technolesy for Furniture".
Siz Francis Watsen, former Xeecer of the Cueen’s Collecticn. "Seventeenth and Zicht2enth Century French Furniture’,
Caristian Witt-Cceerzing, Pa.D., Curator of Furmiture and Weedwork, Austzian Museum of arplied Arts. "History of Burcrean Furniture (excluding French)",

<<<Page: 133>>>

Visiting Professicnals
Veletta Carcuts, Fh.D., Visiting Schelar, Scuthernm Illincis University. ' Hevi Secial Beurdéary Mainterarce ard Excharce Relaticnshiss, AD:
1260-1500, with Renald Bishcp, from Sectamber 1, 1985 threuch Aucust 31, 1987. Mary Anne Frish, Visiting Professicnal foom the Fabric Werxsicp,
Philacelshia, Pemnsvivania. Fetruary-Aarril, 1987. Study of picment/bincer relaticnship to the stability of mederm printed textiles.
Susan Hckks, Ph.D., Research Asseciat2, Corelli University, Ithaca NY.
Neutron Inerced Autoradiccrarhy of Paintincs bv Themas Wilmer Dewing, wita Y. Cheng, from Cetcber 1986 threuch Cctcber 1989.
Scchie Mery, Pradcctoral Visiting Scientist, Universite de Paris I, France. Ceramic Prsdcucticn in the Cman Peninsula from the Perscective of Capital Hiii, with M. James Blackman, foom May 1987 to Jume 1987.
Emlen Myers, Ph.D., Research Collakcrator, SUNY at Binchamtscn. Neutccn activation analysis of Italian Majolica from the Sackler Collecticn with M. James Blackman, from June 1986 thorcuch May 1987.
Irsne Skals, Visiting Proressicnal from the Naturalmseet of Dermarx. March—May, 1987. Stucy of micrcsceric analysis of archeolecical textiles. Recipient of the Suzanne Liebers Erikscn Danish Exchance Precram Award.
Rita Wright, Ph.D., Research Asscciate, Harvard University, Cambricce, MA. Preéucticn and Distz{buticn of Ceramics in Middle Asia, with M. James Blackman, f>cm Ccccber 19, 1985 tnreuch Cctccer 19, 1988.
Znanrg Fukans, Ph.D. and Sum Jins, Ph.D., Institute of Caramics, Academia Sinica, Shanchai, ina, to work cn Chinese trace ceramics found in Sri Lanka.
Diana Alper, Masters Candidate, Columbia University. Library, surveyed rare book collection, with Kathy Martinez, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Yolanda Avila, Bachelors Candidate, Rutgers University. Library, maintained rare book collection, with Kathy Martinez, June 8, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Betsy Biern, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Department of Textiles, collections management, with Ysabella Hincapie-Gara, January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.
Leslee Browning, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York.
Department of Programs, assisted in program administration and planning, with Susan Yelavich, September 16, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Bernd H. Dams, Bachelors Candidate, RWTG Aachen, Germany. Director's Office, publication research, with Lisa Taylor, October 31, 1986 through April 30, 1987.
Marianne Ertberg, Museum Professional, Danish Museum of Decorative Art. Department of Drawings and Prints, studied collection management techniques, with Elaine E. Dee, April 2, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

<<<Page: 134>>>

Jeanne Faton, Bachelors Degree, University of Lyon II. Department of Decorative Arts, French decorative art and furniture, with David McFadden, October 17, 1986 through April 15, 1987.
John Febbo, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Buffalo. Exhibitions Department, exhibition installation, with Dorothy Globus, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Elaine Glusac, Masters Candidate, University of Michigan. Development Office, development research, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Margaret Goehring, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Special Events, planning of events, with Anne Patterson and Wallcoverings Department, collection maintenance, with Ann Dorfsman, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Teresa M. Heady, Masters Candidate, Fashion Institute of Technology. Department of Textiles, textile conservation, with Lucy Commoner, December 17, 1986 through December 31, 1987.
Diane Kessler, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta. Department of Textiles, textile conservation, with Lucy Commoner, January 5, 1987 through September 30, 1987.
Usha Kutty, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Programs Department, studied
the planning and administration of programs, with Susan Yelavich, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Marv Marvin, Bachelors Candidate, Moore College of Art. Department of Textiles, collection maintenance, with Ysabella Hincapie-Gara, June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Juan Mila, Bachelors Candidate, Bennington Collection. Exhibitions
Department, assisted in the preparation of the Gaudi exhibition, January 5, 1987 through March 2, 1987.
Beth E. Posner, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Business Office, assisted in office administration, with William Gaske, December 22, 1986 through January 31, 1987.
Paige Roberts, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Exhibitions Department, research for maps exhibition, with Dorothy Globus, June 8, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Jessica Rudin, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Exhibitions Department, research for festivals exhibition, June 8, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Lorna Ryan, Bachelors Candidate, Camberwell School of Art. Library, rare books collection, with Kathy Martinez, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Ulrike Schonfeldt, Bachelors Candidate, Freie Universitat of Berlin. Department of Drawings and Prints, collection management, with Elaine E. Dee, July 11, 1987 through September 15, 1987.

<<<Page: 135>>>

Sofia Vecchio, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Department of Drawings and Prints, collection maintenance and exhibition research, with Elaine E. Dee, June 8, 1987 through July 8, 1987.
John Willman, Masters Candidate, City University of New York. Shop Operations, product development, with Polly Dufresne, January 15, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN Internship and Other Student Appointments
Harriet Stern, BA, Kenyon College. Worked and studied with Teresia Bush in Education from June 15 through August 21.
Emily Carroll, BA candidate, Maryland Institute, College of Art. Worked and studied with Eddie Schiesser in Exhibits and Design from June 8 through August 14.
Elizabeth Klein, BA candidate, Dartmouth College. Worked and studied with Sidney Lawrence in Public Affairs from June 8 through August 14.
Melissa Welsh, BA candidate, Oberlin College. Worked and studied with Judith Zilczer in the Department of Painting and Sculpture from June 8 through August 14.
Fellows and Visiting Scholars
Ruth Bohan, Post Doctoral Fellow, Associate Professor, Art Department, University of Missouri, St. Louis. "Walt Whitman and American Art, 1882-1919." Advisor: Judith Zilczer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, August 1987 through August 1988.
Emmie Donadio, Predoctoral Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University, New York. "Richard Stankiewicz." Advisor: Valerie Fletcher, Department of Painting and Sculpture, September 15, 1987 through March 14, 1988.
Dietlinde Hamburg, Predoctoral Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, Kassel University, West Germany. "Carl Grossberg-New Objectivity Movement." Advisor: Judith Zilczer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, March 1, 1987 through February 28, 1988.
Rebecca Zurier, Predoctoral Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University..«*The Graphic Art of the Ashcan. School." Advisor: Judith Zilczer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, May 1986 through August 1988.

<<<Page: 136>>>

Interns
Stefania Lucamante, graduate intern, University of Cagliari, Italy. Supervisor: Valerie Fletcher, November 1986 through May 1987.
Melissa Welch, intern, Oberlin College. Supervisor: Judith Zilczer, June through August 1987.
National Air and Space Museum
Jchn D. Ancerscn, the Charles A. Lindkerch Chair of Aercspace History. Definitive history of aercaéynamics ard research in hycerscnic aerccynamics with Dr. Hewerd Wolko, Aeronautics Derartnent, from Sectemrer 1, 1986, threuch August 30, 1987.
Glenn Buges, Smithscnian Predcctoral Fellew. Testing the F-4 Fhantcm Ii: Engineering practice in the develcement of American military aircraft,
1952-1967 with Dr. Ven Hardesty, Aercnautics Deparmcnent, from Sectemcer 1, 1986, threuch Aucust 30, 1987.
Michael A. Dennis, Smithscnian Predcctoral Fellcw. New Relaticns: Academic-military relaticns at the Hopkins Applied Fhysics Lab and the MIT Instrumentaticn Lab, 1942-1952 with Dr. David DeVerkin, Srace Science and Expicraticn Derartment, from Sectember 1, 1986, throush Aucuse 30, 1987.
Renald E. Deel, Gucgenheim Precectoral Fellcw. Joining Astrcenamy with Gecrnysics:. The Formaticn of a Planetary Science Discipline, 1945-1965 with Dr. Jcosech Tatarewicz, Srace Science and Exploraticn Derarmnent, frem Sectember 1, 1987, threuch August 31, 1988.
Icuis R. Eltscher, Alfred Verville Fellcw. A history of the Curtiss-Wright aerenautical corscraticn with Mr. F. Reker= van der Linden, Aercnautics Derarmment, from September 1, 1986, thrcouch August 30,
Dr. Herbert Friecman, the Martin Marietta Chair in Space History. Fermal, in_
the Aerckee era in the 1950s with Dr. David DeVorkin, Srace Science and Exploraticn Lerartment, from Sectemcer 1, 1986, through August 31, 1987.
Jcse Villela Gomez, Internaticnal Fellcw. Early airlines of Mexico, establishment of the Mexican airline industry, and Mexico's place in
aviation history with Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Aeronautics Department, fom July 7, 1986, threuch July 6, 1987.
Dr. C. Vance Haynes, Smithsonian Senior Pestdectoral Fellcw. Work on joint research in remcete sensing of scuthern Egypt and northern Sudan with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, frem August 15, 1987, threuch December 15, 1987.

<<<Page: 137>>>

George E. McGill, Visiting Scientist. Geolegic and tectcnic evoluticn of the northern hemischere of Mars with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from September 15, 1986, threuch Jamuary 15, 1987.
Hassan Abdel Salam, Intsrnaticnal Exchange Visitor. Grcoundwater exploration in the Western Desert of Egypt with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Centar for Earth and Planetary Studies, from Octcber 15, 1986, through Octcber 30, 1986.
Bric Schatzkers, Short Term Visiter. Study of Icor Sikersky ard the istery of technolesy with Dr. Vcn Hardesty, Aercnautics Derartment, frem July 1, 1987, threush August 31, 1987.
Scot: Smith, Short Term Visitor. Research cn air combat tactics of the Sceviet Air Ferce with Dr. Ven Hartesty, Aercnautics Derartnent, f&cm June,.22,..1987., threugn July 3, 1987.
Ted Young, Shert Term Visiter. Research cn Curtiss aircraft excerts with Dr. Von Hardesty, Aercnautics Derarmnent, from Sertemcer 14, 1987, threucn Ccccker 2, 1987.
Interns and Fellows
Sarah Aston, Masters Candidate, Colgate University. Organized
and catalogued art objects belonging to the Department of
Education; prepared outreach kits, workshop materials and slide kits for teachers, from September 8, 1987 to December 4, 1987.
Brenda Chalfin, Amherst College. Researched exhibitions and catalogued archival material, from October 1, 1986 to December 31, 1986.
Keith M. Conway, University of the District of Columbia. Assisted with the conservation of archaeological artifacts, from March 30, 1987 to December 31, 1987.
Marie Durquet, University of California at Davis. Researched future exhibitions, for the curatorial department from June 29, 1987 to August 21, 1987.
Winona Hubbard, University of California at Berkeley. Gathered, prepared and presented information for public and press use, from July 13, 1987 to August 18, 1987.
Anita W. McNamee. Assisted with public affairs programs for
1987 museum opening, included list development, wrote newswire feature, etc., from January 7, 1987 to March 3l, 19387.

<<<Page: 138>>>

Henry Thaggert, III, Tulane University. Prepared educational materials for the members of the docent program, from August 3, 1987 to August 28, 1987. Aided iin compiling a
docent handbook on the permanent collection for the museum, JuNnes ELIS to July Skerssy'. a5
Stryk D. Thomas, University of Michigan. Catalogued and researched archival material, for the Eliot Elisofon Archives, from June 1, 1987 to August 11, 1987.
Visiting Scholars
Ebenezer Nii Quarcoopome, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California,
Los Angeles. Art and Leadership among the Ga-Adangme and Ewe of Ghana and Togo with Roy Sieber, from June 30 to September 4, 1987.
Dr. Christaud Geary, Rockefeller Resident Fellow, University of Boston. Historical photographs for art historical and historical research on Africa with Roy Sieber, from September 2, 1986 to September 2, 1987.
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY Interns
Beatrice E. Bachmann, Undergraduate, Georgetown University. Assisted with research on radio and TV personnel of the 20's and 30's, with Amy Henderson, Office of the Historian, from October 22, 1986 through May 31, 1987.
Kimberly Beynum, High School Student, Duke Ellington School of the Arts. Assisted in building management office, helped with scheduling and served as receptionist, with Mary Massey, Building Management Office, from June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Jane Bierman, Graduate, Colorado College. Organized Meserve collection negatives, with William Stapp, Office of Prints and Photographs, from June 15, 1987 through August 31, 1987.
Clare C. Franklin, Undergraduate, Wellesley College. Conducted biographical research and performed exhibits work for exhibition on broadcasting pioneers, with Amy Henderson, Office of the Historian, from May 20, 1987 through August 28.5. L987.
M. Claire Garrett, Undergraduate, Vanderbilt University. Assisted in organization of gifts and exchange materials, vertical file collection and auction catalogue, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from June 2, 1987 through August 8, 1987.
Kellie M. Gaudry, Undergraduate, Hollins College. Assisted in production of gallery graphics, with Anice Doak, Office of Design and Production, from January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.
Leslie A. Gray, Masters Degree, George Mason University. Developed secondary school program on the Constitution and the Presidency, with Leni Buff, Office of Education, from June 9, 1987 through October 31, 1987.
Carola Haden, Graduate, Drury College. Assisted staff in operation of research office; verified photographic data, label integrating information and did research for staff and public, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of American Portraits, from June 15, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

<<<Page: 139>>>

Mary E. Hale, Undergraduate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Implemented new vertical plan storage and filing system for all drawings in Office of Design and Production; became familiar with role of exhibits work in museums and other museum operations, with Steve di Girolamo, Office of Design and Production, from May ll, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Mary Herrington, Masters Degree, Marymount College. General library work, bibliographic search, GEAC computer; handled organization of Special Collections, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from October 16, 1986 through November 15, 1987.
Jill Heyman, Masters Degree, George Washington University. Assisted Education Department in marketing its programs and promoting the Portrait Gallery and its activities, with Kenneth Yellis, Office of Education, from January 12, 1987 through May 1, 1987.
Audrey Hollet, Graduate, University of California at Riverside. Developed outreach material for conservation program; updated school mailing list, with Harry Jackson, Office of Education, from June 29, 1987 through August 28,
HO Si.
Jack Holliday, Masters Degree, University of Dayton. Researched and wrote drafts for "The Constitution and the Presidency," with Leni Buff, Office of Education, from July 6, 1987 through July 31, 1987.
Russell Jackson, Undergraduate, University of Dallas. Assisted professional staff, with James Barber, Office of the Historian, from July 31, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Jennifer Kabot, Undergraduate, Barnard College. Conducted biographical research on Sara Hallowell (1846-1924), with Carolyn Carr, Assistant Director for Collections, August 1987.
Leah Lignon, Undergraduate, University of Arkansas at Fayetteville. Assisted with organizing gifts and exchange material, vertical file collection and auction catalogs, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from May 26, 1987 through July Si LIS:
Carol J. McCullough, Undergraduate, Hollins College. Assisted in production of gallery graphics with Anice Doak, Office of Design and Production, from January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.
Lisa M. Melchiori, Undergraduate, George Mason University. Researched items in the Meserve Exhibit, with William Stapp, Office of Prints and Photographs, from January 21, 1987 through May 15, 1987.
Kimberly R. Meldrum, Undergraduate, University of Michigan. Initiated information gathering for a database system, with Claire Kelly, Office of Exhibitions, from June 3, 1987 through August 3, 1987.
Christine Multra, Undergraduate, Gallaudet University. Assisted professional staff, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987. Paula Pergament, Undergraduate, Earlham College. Initiated information gathering for a database system; was responsible for data entry, with Claire Kelly, Office of Exhibitions, from June 22, 1987 through August 14, 1987. Mary I. Peters, High School Student, Sidwell Friends School. Conducted biographical research on a group of drawings by S. T. Woolf which date from the 1920's through the 1940's, with Wendy W. Reaves, Office of Prints and Photographs, from May 13, 1987 through June 4, 1987.
Elizabeth Peterson, Undergraduate, Connecticut College. Verified photographic data, labeled, integrated data into master file; did research; responded to general reference questions, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of American Portraits, from June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Sylvie-Anne Robinson, Masters Degree, George Washington University. Designed and developed brochure for programs for adult audiences; developed grant proposal for monetary support for publications and distribution, with Harry Jackson, Office of Education, from January 12, 1987 through May l, 1987.

<<<Page: 140>>>

Margot C. Sklar, Undergraduate, Wellesley College. Assisted with on-going research projects on biographical information about notable Americans who are the subjects of exhibitions or lectures at the museum, with James Barber, Office of the Historian, from June 15, 1987 through August 7, 1987.
Elizabeth Stebbins, Graduate, Bates College. Prepared program notes and programs for "American Voices;" prepared for fall programs including "Portraits in American Song" and "American Colonial Portraits: 1700-1776," with Kenneth Yellis, Office of Education, from June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Margaret Steward, Graduate, University of Virginia. Served as research assistant for exhibition (1992-93) celebrating Columbian Quincentenary-portraits displayed in Fine Arts Building, Chicago Exposition of 1893, with Brandon Fortune, Office of Paintings and Sculpture, from June 23, 1987 through July-31., *1937-.
Elizabeth Stutzman, Undergraduate, James Madison University. Verified photographic data, labeled, integrated data into master file; did research; responded to general reference questions, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of American Portraits, from June 1, 1987 through September 1, 1987.
Margaret B. Swallow, Graduate, University of Vermont. Cataloged collection of confederate prints, with Wendy W. Reaves, Office of Prints and Photographs, from June 15, 1987 through September 11, 1987.
Anne M. Vescovi, Graduate, Fort Wayne Art Museum. Assisted staff in operation of research office; verified photographic data, labeled, integrated information into a master file; did research for National Portrait Gallery staff and public, with Richard Doud, Catalog of American Portraits, from April 7, 1987 through August 30, 1987.
Marthanne P. Aleman, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M University. Analyzed
site and made conceptual drawings for two areas being developed, nursery and research center, research topography, utilities, drainage studies,
grading plans, irrigation systems, and layouts, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Daniel H. Bentrup, Bachelors Candidate, West Virginia University. Assisted with collection management of the Cattleya orchids (both cultural and records work), May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Ning Dai, Masters Degree, American University. Production of poinsettias and special training techniques for pot mums, June 8, 1987 through
August 28, 1987.
Lee S. DeMars, Bachelor Candidate, George Mason University. General greenhouse work potting, watering, weeding, June 7, 1987 through July 11, O87
Beth Hanlon, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Assisted with verification, labeling and cataloguing of the Garden Club of American
Slide Collection, May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Dianne Hilborn, Bachelors Candidate, Michigan State University. Revised Maintenance Manual and assisted in historic horticultural research, September 14, 1987 through December 11, 1987.
Patricia A. Swartz, High School, Westtown School. General greenhouse work
(potting, watering, weeding, etc.), February 23, 1987 through March 6, 1987.

<<<Page: 141>>>

Harihar Prasad Bhattarai, Ph.D. candidate, University of North Carolina. Research on the Festival of American Folklife for the development and presentation of Nepalese folk festivals, with Richard Kurin, from June 1 through August 7, 1987.
Katherine C. Bond, B.A., Swarthmore College. Assistance in areas involving folk arts of the Indochinese refugee population, including the transcription of folk songs and the accumulation of bibliographic material for a planning proposal, with Frank Proschan, from September 22 through June 1, 1988.
S. Curtis Bowman, Visiting Professional, Institute of American Indian Arts. Analysis of preparation and presentation of Festival of American Folklife for use by local American Indian museums, with Laurie Sommers, from May 26 through July 10,
Olivia Cadaval, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Comparison of performance and ethnic identity at the Festival of American Folklife and the Washington, D.C. Latino Festival, with Peter Seitel, from June 1 through May 31, 1988.
Carol A. Chapin, B.A., University of Wisconsin. Archival work, with Pete Magoon, from October 20 through January 20, 1987.
R. Kevin Donald, Ph.D. candidate, University of Oregon. Photographic documentation of the Metropolitan Washington program, Festival of American Folklife, with Phyllis MayMachunda, from June 1 through August 21, 1987.
Suzanne Fauteux, M.A. candidate, Columbia College. Archival work, with Pete Magoon, from February 2 through May 8, 1987.
Huaren He, Visiting Professional, China Federation of Literary and Art Circles, People's Republic of China. Research on proverbs, with Peter Seitel, from April 24 through July 31, 9187s
Gordon A. Kirsch, B.A. candidate, Evergreen State College. Archival work, with Pete Magoon, from January 28 through July Le LOB Ws
Dennis G. Medina, M.A. candidate, University of Texas. Research on expressive culture associated with the impact on agricultural production of Columbus' voyage, with Alicia Gonzalez, from June 15 through August 21, 1987, and September through May, 1988.
Cynthia Y. Munoz, B.A. candidate, University of Texas. Research on Texas languages, with Alicia Gonzalez, from June 15 through August 21, 1987.
Michael J. Nelson, B.A. candidate, Haverford College. Assistance with production and presentation of the Festival of American Folklife, with Frank Proschan, from June 1 through August 7, LOS Es
Emmett Printup, B.A., Syracuse University. Bibliographic research on American Indian lacrosse, with Thomas Vennum, Jr., from February 17 through March 27, 1987.
Yunus Rubanza, Ph.D. candidate, Michigan State University. Research on linguistic aspects of African epics, with Peter Seitel, from August 1 through August 31, 1987.

<<<Page: 142>>>

Heidi Tobler, B.A. candidate,
Brigham Young University.
Archival
work with the Folkways Records acquisitions, with Ed O'Reilly,
from August 31 through December 17, Sarah Louise Williams, High School Sr.,
Alexandria.
2:9 9 Sree
Visiting Professionals~ Program
Slvia Alsisto Sandakan Ferest of Sabah Sabah, Malaysia Marco Alvin Rui Barbesa Foundation Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Marcelo Araujo Museu Lasar Segall Sao Paulo, Brazil Shifra Aronson The Education Gallery Tel-Aviv, Israel Kathy Ball Lafayetze Latayette, Mary Bellah Carnegie Art Museum Oxnard, California Jacques Beauftet Museum of Fine Arts t. Etienne, France Norman Birnbaum Shippensburg University Shippensburg, PA Renal Bourgeois National Museum of Canada Ottawa, Canada Denna Bryman Vancouver Museum Vancsuver, Canada Jean Byers Heritage Museum Baker, LA Nicolas Cando Cantini Museum Marseilles, France Kuei-mao Chen National Museum of Taipei, Taiwan
Louisiana
History
Natural History Mus.
19187. St. Agnes School,
Transcription of interviews from fieldwork on creolization, with Nicholas Spitzer,
from May 8 through May
Bill. Chicdo Dade Co. Public Schools Miami, Florida Susan Chykaliuk McMichael Canadian Collection Ontario, Canada PatrictaCorsa i Millicent Rogers Museum Taos, New Mexico Henry Crawford Milwaukee Public Museum Milwaukee, WI Wendy Donowa Barbados Museum Barbados, West Indies Adrian Ellis Design Museum at Butlers Wharf Lenden, England Dorothy Fields Dade Co. Public Schools Miami, Florida Noel Frankhan Visual Arts North Sydnev, Lorenzo Galvan Inst. of Texas Cultures San Antonio Freidhelm Haering Oberhessiches Museum Giessen, West Germany Jorn Otto Hansen Tonder Museum South Jutland, Denmark Eric Hedavist Goteborgs Museer Goteberg, Sweden Nina Hobolth Randers Art Randers,
Crafts Board Australia
Museum Denmarx

<<<Page: 143>>>

Maria Horta-Barretito Fundacao Nacional pro-Memoria io de Janeiro, Brazil Kuang-nan Huang Taipei Fine Arts Museum Taipei, Taiwan Elizabeth Huntoon Ghicaco iPublic. Library Ehicago:,.7 LL Paul Huvenne Rubenshuis Museum Antwerp, Belgium Per Hvamstad Museum in Nord-Osterdalen Norway Estalle Impey Manitoba Mus. of Man & Nature Winnipeq, Canada James Jagan U. S. Embassy Per= of Sdain, Trinidad Carroll Jones Wyoming State Museum Cheyenne, Wyoming Tom Kaczkowski University of Champaign Irene Kersting Albuquerque Museum Albuquerque, NM Bobby Kidd The Brocklyn Museum Brocklyn, New York Lean Luc Koltz National Museums of Luxembcurg Luxembourg Andrzej Kostolowski Adam Mikiewicz Museum Smielow, Poland Marilyn Kyles Edison His West Orange, NU In-Scok Lee Seoul Nat. University Museum Seoul, Scuth Korea Patrick Lynca *. Louis Science Canter *. Louis, MO Sarah Main Australian Museum Svadney, Australia
EL inoen si
M + dn 7) 3 4 rie Sice
Maria Marabie The Southwest Museum Los Angeles, CA S. C. Mehta Dept. of Electronics New Delhi, India Michael Miksicek <. Louis Science Center St. Louis, MO Patricia Miles New Mexico State Univ. Museum Las Cruces, NM Hazel Moffat Dept. of Educ. & Science North Lincoln, England Leo Napoleon VA Dept. of Conservation & Historic Resources Charlottesville, VA Ronnie Nichols Arkansas Arts Center Little Rock, Arkansas M. L. Nigam Salar Jung Museum Hyderabad, India Shoshana Nitzan Israel Museum Jerusalem, Israel John Nolan Ulster Museum & Gardens Belfast, Northern Ireland rinivasa Rajagcpvolan Archeolccical Survey of India Madras, India Vs. Ps. Rangie Natl. Handicrafts & Handlocms Museum New Delhi, India Beldon Raspberry Brocklyn Children's Museum Brooklyn, New Yorx Denise Rosario Strecker Museum Waco, Texas Martina Rudloff Gerhard Marcks Foundation Bremen, West Germany S. K. Sahni Nat. Gallery of Mcecern Art New Delhi, India

<<<Page: 144>>>

Sabita Sarkar Indian Museum Galcucsta ~ ineata
Markette Seppala Pori Art Museum Pori, Finland
Gabriel Serrano
Kansas Museum of History
Topeka, KS Cynthia, Shubert
Saint Louis Art Museum
Saint Louis, MO L. BP. Sihare National Museum New Delhi, India Ant2 Soric Muzejski Prostor
Zaqreb, Yugoslavia
Christine Takata Bishop Museum Honolulu, Hawaii
Franz van der Avert Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, The Netherlands Olge and Inge-Lise Villadsen Lolland-Falsters, Denmark Lilia Villasenor Portland Children's Museum Portland, Oregon Tyra Walker Frederick Douglass House Wasnhingtony..D..¢.s Mei Wan Texas Tech University Museum Bubbpeck.,, Lx Lawrence Wang Meacows Museum of Art Dallas.,.. TX Rosemary Watt Burrell: Collection Glasgow, Scotland Carol Weatnersroon
NC Museum of Lire and Science Regional Council of Hong Kong Durham, North Carolina Emilio de la Torre Elisheva Yarhi
Science & Technology Museum Israel Museum
Bessie Tong
Project Guatemala City,
Guatemala
Jerusalem, Israel

<<<Page: 145>>>

Appendix 5
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1987
Trade Publications
pages, | chart, 2 maps. September, 1987. Paper: $14.95.
Bergon, Frank, editor. A Sharp Lookout: Selected Nature Essays of John Burroughs. 500 pages, 18 black and white illustrations. September, 1987. Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95.
Blatti, Jo, editor. Past Meets Present: Essays About Historic Interpretation and Public Audiences. 192 pages, 10 black and white illustrations. May, 1987. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $11.95.
Chock, Phyllis Pease, and June R. Wyman, editors. Discourse and the Social Life of Meaning. 232 pages, 5 figures. November, 1986. Cloth: $22.50.
Airways. 432 pages, 36 black and white illustrations, 7 maps. July, 1987. Cloth: $22.50.
Caribbean, 1500-1800. Volume I: Ceramics, Glassware, and Beads. 208 pages, 6 color and 114 black and white illustrations, 17 line drawings. July, 1987. Cloth: $35.00; paper: $19.95.
DeVorkin, David H.; illustrations by Steve Postman. Practical Astronomy: Lectures on Time, Place, and Space. 110 pages, 66 black and white illustrations. October, 1986. Paper: $12.95.
Duncan, Wilbur A., and Marion B. Duncan. The Smithsonian Guide to Seaside Plants of the Gulf and Atlantic Coasts from Louisiana to
Massachusetts, Exclusive of Lower Peninsular Florida. 410 pages, 588 color and 189 black and white illustrations. March, 1987. Cloth: $45.00; paper: $29.95.
Eberhard, William G., Yael D. Lubin, and Barbara C. Robinson, editors. Proceedings of the Ninth International Congress of Arachnology, Panama 1983. 334 pages, 187 black and white illustrations. November, 1986. Paper: $25.00.
Ehrenberg, Ralph E. Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C: Cartography and Remote Sensing Imagery. 420 pages. June, 1987. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $15.00.
Hazen, Margaret Hindle, and Robert M. Hazen. The Music Men: An Illustrated History of Brass Bands in America, 1800-1920. 272 pages,
170 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95.
Hindle, Brooke, and Steven Lubar. Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revolution, 1790-1860. 310 pages, 217 black and white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $14.95.
Hoage, R. J., and Larry Goldman, editors; introduction by David Challinor. Animal Intelligence: Insights into the Animal Mind. 208 pages, 34 black and white illustrations. December, 1986. Paper: $10.95.

<<<Page: 146>>>

Society from Prehistory to the Islamic Conquest. 406 pages, 90 tables, 39 line drawings. June, 1987. Cloth: $49.95.
Hotton, Nicholas III, Paul D. MacLean, Jan J. Roth, and E. Carol Roth, editors. The Ecology and Biology of Mammal-like Reptiles. 336 pages, 166 black and white illustrations. December, 1986. Cloth: $35.00; paper: $19.95.
Isar, Yudhishthir Raj, editor; foreword by Paul Perrot. The Challenge to Our Cultural Heritage: Why Preserve the Past? 252 pages, 55 black and white illustrations. November, 1986. Paper: $11.95.
Isler, Morton L., and Phyllis R. Isler; foreword by Theodore A. Parker III. The Tanagers: Natural History, Distribution, and Identification. 464 pages, 32 color plates, 263 maps. April, 1987. Cloth: $70.00; paper: $49.95.
Jarrett, Philip. Another Icarus: Percy Pilcher and the Quest for Flight. 238 pages, 48 black and white illustrations, 19 figures, 2 maps. March, 1987. Cloth: $22.50.
American Culture. 258 pages, 8 black and white illustrations. November, 1986. Cloth: $24.95; paper: $14.95.
and white illustrations, 12 line drawings, 4 two-color posters. July, 1987. Paper: $9.95.
Park, Edwards, with Jean Paul Carlhian; foreword by Robert McC. Adams. A on the National Mall. 160 pages, 28 color and 134 black and white illustrations, 40 drawings. September, 1987. Paper: $19.95.
Reingold, Nathan, and Marc Rothenberg, editors. Scientific Colonialism:
A Cross-Cultural Comparison. Papers at a Conference at Melbourne, May 25-30, 1981. 412 pages. December, 1986. Paper: $29.95.
Shetler, Stanwyn G.; foreword by Robert S. Hoffmann. Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman. 160 pages, 32 color and 54 black and white illustrations. January, 1987. Paper: $17.50.
Spenser, Jay P. Focke-Wulf Fw 190: Workhorse of the Luftwaffe. 104 pages, 4 color and 124 black and white illustrations, 4 figures.
March, 1987. Paper: $10.95.
Strom, Robert G.; foreword by Ted A. Maxwell. Mercury: The Elusive Planet. 208 pages, 1 color and 74 black and white illustrations, 28 line drawings. April, 1987. Cloth: $19.95.
—S ee eS eee ee
Arizona to the Smithsonian. 48 pages, 15 black and white illustrations. December, 1986. Paper: $8.95.
Wolko, Howard S., editor; foreword by Walter J. Boyne. The Wright Flyer: An Engineering Perspective. 106 pages, 142 black and white illustrations. December, 1986. Paper: $9.95.
Exhibition Catalogues Issued as Trade Publications
Anacostia Museum Driskell, David; foreword by John Kinard. Contemporary Visual
Expressions. 80 pages, 21 color and 13 black and white illustrations. June, 1987. Paper: $15.95.

<<<Page: 147>>>

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Lawton, Thomas, Shen Fu, Glenn D. Lowry, Ann Yonemura, and Milo C. Beach.
pages, 64 color and 245 black and white illustrations. September, 1987. Paper: $24.95.
National Museum of African Art
African Art. 64 pages, | color illustration, 33 duotones. September, 1987. Paper: $12.95.
Gilfoy, Peggy Stoltz; foreword by Sylvia Williams. Patterns of Life: West African Strip-Weaving Traditions. 96 pages, 42 color illustrations, 5 maps, 17 duotones, | line drawing. September, 1987. Paper: $16.95.
Sieber, Roy, and Roslyn Adele Walker. African Art in the Cycle of Life. 168 pages, 58 color illustrations, 76 duotones, | map. September, 1987. Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95.
National Museum of American Art
Mecklenburg, Virginia M., and William Kloss; foreword by Charles C. Collection. 144 pages, 48 color and 68 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Paper: $16.95.
Serwer, Jacquelyn D., Douglas Davis, and Donald Kuspit; foreword by Charles C. Eldredge. Gene Davis: A Memorial Exhibition. 192 pages,
90 color illustrations, 28 duotones. March, 1987. Cloth: $49.50. National Museum of American History
Daniel, Pete, Merry A. Foresta, Maren Stange, and Sally Stein. Official Images: New Deal Photography. 208 pages, 171 black and white illustrations. July, 1987. Paper: $24.95.
National Portrait Gallery
Honored Tradition. 88 pages, 32 color and 2 black and white plates. September, 1987. Paper: $12.95.
Trade Reprints New Editions
Bleeker, Pieter. Atlas Ichtvologique des Indes Orientales Néérlandaises. Volume VI: Pleuronectes Scombrésoces Clupées, Clupésoces, Chauliodontes, Saurides. 175 pages, 43 color plates. July, 1987.
Cloth: $50.00.
Lumbreras, Luis G.; tramslation by Betty J. Meggers. The Peoples and Cultures of Ancient Peru. 248 pages, 232 black and white illustrations. June, 1987. Paper: $14.95.
Middleton, John; foreword by Ivan Karp. Lugbara Religion: Ritual and Authority Among an East African People. 294 pages, 5 black and white plates, 10 figures. December, 1986. Paper: $14.95.

<<<Page: 148>>>

Peters, James A., Roberto Donoso-Barros, and Braulio Orejas-Miranda; new material by P.E. Vanzolini. Catalogue of the Neotropical Squamata. Part I: Snakes. Part Il: Lizards and Amphisbaenians. 672 pages, 148 black and white illustrations. November, 1986. Paper: $29.95.
Swanton, John R. Indians of the Southeastern United States. 1,068 pages,
112 black and white illustrations, 13 maps. September, 1987. Paper: $25.00.
Trade Reprints of Previous Editions
Boyne, Walter J., and Donald S. Lopez, editors. Vertical Flight: The Age of the Helicopter. 272 pages, 216 black and white illustrations, 28 figures. May, 1987. Paper: $19.95.
Dick, Harold G., with Douglas H. Robinson. The Golden Age of the Great Passenger Air Ships: Graf Zeppelin and Hindenburg. 226 pages, 88 black and white illustrations. June, 1987. Cloth: $24.95.
Hoage, R. J., editor. Animal Extinctions: What Everyone Should Know. 206 pages, 30 black and white illustrations. July, 1987. Paper: $10.95.
Kloss, William; foreword by Charles C. Eldredge. Treasures from the
white illustrations. December, 1986. Cloth: $39.95.
Malaro, Marie C. A Legal Primer on Managing Museum Collections. 366 pages. April, 1987. Paper: $14.95.
Nero, Robert W.; photographs by Robert R. Taylor. The Great Gray Owl: Phantom of the Northern Forest. 168 pages, 30 color and 56 black and white illustrations. September, 1987. Paper: $12.50.
Protopappas, John J., and Lin Brown, editors. Washington on Foot. 224 pages, 95 black and white illustrations, 26 maps. June, 1987. Paper: $5.95.
Trade Publications Distributed for Other Publishers
Copublished with Airlife Publishing, Ltd., England
Golley, John, and William Gunston. Whittle: The True Story. 290 pages, 1 color and 48 black and white illustrations, 1 map, 9 figures. August, 1987. Cloth: $24.95.
Hudson River Museum, Yonkers, New York
Panzer, Mary; foreword by Estelle Jussim. In My Studio: Rudolf Eickemeyer, Jr., and the Art of the Camera, 1885-1930. 112 pages, 92
duotones. July, 1987. Paper: $18.95.
Marg Publications, Bombay
Doshi, Saryu, editor. An Age of Splendor: Islamic Art in India. 150 pages, 86 color and 96 black and white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $45.00.
. Goa: Cultural Patterns. 152 pages, 69 color and 200 black
and white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $45.00.

<<<Page: 149>>>

Homage to Karnataka. 156 pages, 48 color and 139 black and white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $45.00.
India and Greece: Connections and Parallels. 132 pages, 46 color and 82 black and white illustrations. February, 1987. Cloth: $45.00.
Maharashtra. 306 pages, 227 color and 300 black and white
illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $65.00.
Pageant of Indian Art. 174 pages, 84 color and 164 black and white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $45.00.
Michell, George, editor. Islamic Heritage of the Deccan. 130 pages, 55 color and 94 black and white illustrations. February, 1987. Cloth: $45.00.
Pal, Pratapaditya, editor. American Collectors of Asian Art. 205 pages, 60 color and 165 black and white illustrations. February, 1987. Cloth: $50.00.
National Archives, Washington, D.C.
of Relations, 1765-1815. 1,184 pages, 4 color and 115 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $40.00. Beers, Henry Putney; introduction by Frank G. Burke. The Confederacy: A
Bloom, Sol. The Story of the Constitution. 192 pages, 51 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $8.95.
Butler, John P., compiler. Index: Papers of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 6,615 pages. April, 1987. Cloth: $85.00.
Charleton, James H., Robert G. Ferris, and Mary C. Ryan, editors. Framers of the Constitution. 260 pages, 106 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $19.50.
Guide to Genealogical Research in the National Archives. 304 pages, | color and 40 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $35.00; paper: $25.00.
Harris, Kenneth E., and Steven D. Tilley, compilers. Index: The Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 430 pages, 1 black and white illustration. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.
Hill, Edward E., compiler. Guide to Records in the National Archives Relating to American Indians. 468 pages, 24 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.
Munden, Kenneth W., and Henry Putney Beers; introduction by Frank G. Burke. The Union: A Guide to the Federal Archives Relating to the Civil War. 722 pages. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.
Newman, Debra L., compiler. Black History: A Guide to Civilian Records in the National Archives. 380 pages, 40 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $15.00.
Ryan, Garry D., and Timothy K. Nenninger, editors. Soldiers and Civilians: The U.S. Army and the American People. 244 pages, 30 black
and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.

<<<Page: 150>>>

Ulibarri, George, and John P. Harrison, compilers. Guide to Materials on Latin America in the National Archives. 490 pages. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.
Walch, Timothy, editor. Guardian of Heritage: Essays on the History of the National Archives. 94 pages, 76 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Paper: $7.00.
, compiler. Our Family, Our Town: Essays on Family and Local
The Written Word Endures: Milestone Documents of American History. 112
pages, 66 color and 158 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $12.50.
Scottish Academic Press, Edinburgh
Fardon, Richard, editor. Power and Knowledge: Anthropological and Sociological Approaches. 216 pages. October, 1986. Cloth: $19.95.
Annual Reports
American Historical Association Annual Report. 148 pages. October, 1986.
National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986. 246 pages, 2 color and 69 black and white illustrations. November, 1986.
Smithsonian Year 1986. 192 pages, | color and 63 black and white illustrations. May, 1987.
Smithsonian Year 1986 Supplement: Chronology and Appendixes. 380 pages. May, 1987.
Books National Museum of Natural History Fiske, Richard S., Tom Simkin, and Elizabeth A. Nielson, editors. The Volcano Letter. A reprint of journal issues published by the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory from 1925-1955. 1,536 pages. December, 1986.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Part of Your General Public is Disabled: A Handbook for Guides. 104
pages, 3 black and white illustrations. June, 1987. Office of Public Affairs
Yesterday and Today. 106 pages, 29 black and white illustrations, 3 line drawings. July, 1987.
Smithsonian Institution Press
Official Guide to the Smithsonian. 160 pages, 198 color illustrations.
January, 1987.

<<<Page: 151>>>

Booklets Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. 32 pages, 12 color illustrations and 13 duotones. September, 1987.
Assistant Secretary for Research
Smithsonian Support for Research, Exhibitions, Acquisitions, Education and Publication. 20 pages. September, 1987.
National Museum of African Art
Educational Programs and Resources. 24 pages, 13 color slides and 9 black and white illustrations. September, 1987.
Office of Membership and Development
James J. Smithson Society Dinner Program 1987. 24 pages. September, 1987.
Office of Public Affairs
white illustrations, | map. September, 1987.
A Guide to the Smithsonian for Disabled Visitors. 28 pages, 14 black and
Brochures Anacostia Museum
Climbing Jacob’s Ladder. 10 pages, 8 black and white illustrations. May, 1987.
Contemporary Visual Expressions. 8 pages, 6 color and | black and white illustration, 2 line drawings. May, 1987.
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. 8 pages, 10 color illustrations. September, 1987.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Winter/Spring 1987 Calendar. 8 pages, 9 black and white illustrations. January, 1987.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Spring/Summer 1987 Calendar. pages, 12 black and white illustrations. April, 1987.
Lucian Freud. 4 pages, 5 black and white illustrations. September, 1987.
Morris Louis. 4 pages, 4 black and white illustrations. May, 1987.
Nancy Graves: A Sculpture Retrospective. 4 pages, 6 black and white illustrations. February, 1987.
Roger Brown. 4 pages, 6 black and white illustrations. August, 1987.

<<<Page: 152>>>

National Museum of African Art
National Museum of African Art. 10 pages, 4 color and 5 black and white
illustrations. May, 1987.
Office of Public Affairs
Complex. 4 pages, 1 black and white illustration, | line drawing, color folder. September, 1987.
Explore Your Heritage. 8 pages, 3 black and white illustrations. September, 1987.
Flyers
National Museum of African Art
February, 1987. National Museum of African Art Calendar of Events: Fall, 1987. 2 pages,
5 black and white illustrations. September, 1987. Office of Elementary and Secondary Education Intern ’87. 6 pages, 8 black and white illustrations. December, 1986. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Barro Colorado Monument. 2 pages, 7 color and 2 black and white illustrations, 3 line drawings. March, 1987.
Folders Office of Fellowships and Grants
Research and Study Opportunities at the Smithsonian Institution. 6 pages, 1 line drawing. September, 1987.
Office of Horticulture
he Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, | black and white illustration, 2 maps. December, 1986.
Office of Public Affairs
The Smithsonian’s New Museum Complex on the Mall. 4 pages, | color illustration, | line drawing. July, 1987.
Invitations National Museum of American Art
Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation Collection. 3 pages,
1 color illustration.

<<<Page: 153>>>

Office of Public Service
Opening of the Smithsonian Institution’s New Museum and Garden Complex: The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the Enid A. Haupt Garden, the National Museum of African Art, and the S. Dillon Ripley Center.
Associate Donor Open House. 3 pages, 1 black and white illustration, | line drawing. July, 1987.
Board of Regents Dinner and Reception. 3 pages, 1 black and white illustration, 1 line drawing. July, 1987.
Congressional Open House. | page. July, 1987.
Facilities Service Reception. | page. July, 1987.
James S. Smithson Society Dinner. | page. July, 1987.
pages, 2 line drawings. July, 1987. Opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Black-Tie Dinner. | page. July, 1987. Festschrift in Celebration of Dr. Arthur M. Sackler. 4 pages, 2 black and
pages, | black and white illustration. July, 1987.
Opening of the National Museum of African Art
drawing. July, 1987. Black-Tie Dinner. | page. July, 1987.
1 color illustration. July, 1987. Opening of the S. Dillon Ripley Center
Directorate of International Activities/Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service Evening Lecture. "Tomarrow’s Children: The Outlook for the Next Generation," by David Maybury-Lewis. 1 page. July,
1987. Exhibition Service Reception. 4 pages, | color illustration. July, 1987.
Directorate of International Activities/Smithsonian Resident Associate Program Evening Lecture. "The Americas: One Shared Memory," by Carlos Fuentes. | page. July, 1987
Directorate of International Activities/Smithsonian Resident Associate Program Reception. 4 pages, | color illustration. July, 1987.
International Center Film Program and Luncheon. "In the Shadow of the Forest: The Baka Pygmies." 4 pages, 1 line drawing. July, 1987.

<<<Page: 154>>>

Newsletters Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Art to Zoo. Published quarterly. et’s Go to the Smithsonian. Published monthly, September through May.
Office of Public Affairs
Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 50, Winter 1986. January, 1987.
Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 51, Spring 1987. June, 1987.
Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 52, Autumn 1987. August, 1987.
Posters Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Inaugural Poster. September, 1987. Discover Asian Art. September, 1987.
September, 1987. Naturalist Center Identification Series
Butterflies and their Flowers. 10 color illustrations. April, 1987.
Distributed by SI Press/$5.00.
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities, 1988-1989. 1 color illustration. September, 1987.
SERIES PUBLICATIONS Smithsonian Contributions to Botany
62. Patricia G. Palmer and Susan Gerbeth-Jones. "A Scanning Electron Microscope Study of the Epidermis of East African Grasses, IV." 120 pages, 86 black and white plates. October 27, 1986.
64. Harold Robinson and Clodomiro Marticorena. "A Palynological Study of the Liabeae (Asteraceae)." 50 pages, 208 black and white figures. October 10, 1986.
65. Thomas R. Soderstrom, Roger P. Ellis, and Emmet J. Judziewicz. "The Phareae and Streptogyneae (Poaceae) of Sri Lanka: A MorphologicalAnatomical Study." 27 pages, 8 black and white figures. April 15,
1987.

<<<Page: 155>>>

437.
442.
443.
444,
445.
446.
447.
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences
Eugene Jarosewich, Roy S. Clarke, Jr., and Julie N. Barrows, editors. "The Allende Meteorite Reference Sample." 49 pages, 32 tables. February 24, 1987.
Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent Benthic Foraminifera off the North American Pacific Coast from California to Baja." 634 pages, 131 black and white figures, 2 tables. December 29, 1986.
Jane E. Lewis and James N. Norris. "A History and Annotated Account of the Benthic Marine Algae of Taiwan." 38 pages, 1 black and white figure. June 8, 1987.
Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent Benthic Foraminifera off the Pacific Coast of Mexico and Central America." 184 pages, 115 black and white figures. September 10, 1987.
Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology
Roberta K. Smith and Martin A. Buzas. "Microdistribution of Foraminifera in a Single Bed of the Monterey Formation, Monterey County, California." 33 pages, 4 black and white figures, 2 black and white plates, 7 tables. October 27, 1986.
Clayton E. Ray, editor. "Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek Mine, North Carolina, II." 283 pages, 49 black and white figures, 80 black and white plates, 21 tables. June 15, 1987.
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology
Hernan Ortega and Richard P. Vari. "Annotated Checklist of the Freshwater Fishes of Peru." 25 pages, 1 black and white figure, 1 table. October 10, 1986.
Richard P. Vari and Hernan Ortega. “The Catfishes of the Neotropical Catfish Family Helogenidae (Ostariophysi: Siluroidei)." 20 pages, 9 black and white figures, 3 tables. November 21, 1986. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. "A Review of the Crayfish Genus Astacoides (Decapoda: Parastacidae)." 50 pages, 23 black and white figures. March 24, 1987.
David K. Camp and Raymond B. Manning. "Observations on Nannosquilla, with Descriptions of Three New Species from the Northwestern Atlantic (Crustacea: Stomatopoda)." 17 pages, 8 black and white figures. November 21, 1986.
Richard S. Houbrick. "Anatomy, Reproductive Biology, and Phylogeny of the Planaxidae (Cerithiacea: Prosobranchia)." 57 pages, 27 black and white figures, 6 tables. March 18, 1987.
Paul J. Spangler and Silvia Santiago. "A Revision of the Neotropical Aquatic Beetle Genera Disersus, Pseudodisersus, and Potamophilops (Coleoptera: Elmidae)." 40 pages, 140 black and white figures. February 24, 1987.
Masahiro Dojiri and Roger F. Cressey. “Revision of the Taeniacanthidae (Copepoda: Poecilostomatoida) Parasitic on Fishes and Sea Urchins." 250 pages, 166 black and white figures, 5 tables. April 17, 1987.

<<<Page: 156>>>

448. Marjorie L. Reaka and Raymond B. Manning. "The Significance of Body Size, Dispersal Potential, and Habitat for Rates of Morphological Evolution in Stomatopod Crustacea." 46 pages, 11 tables. March 24, 1987.
449. Anne C. Cohen and Louis S. Kornicker. "Catalog of the Rutidermatidae (Crustacea: Ostracoda)." 11 pages. February 24, 1987.
450. Oliver S. Flint, J. Frank McAlpine, and Herbert H. Ross. "A Revision of the Genus Leptonema Guerin (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae: Macronematinae.)" 193 pages, 798 black and white figures, 31 maps, 1 dendrogram. July 16, 1987.
451. Karl V. Krombein and J. van der Vecht. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XVII: A Revision of Sri Lankan and South Indian Bembix Fabricius (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Nyssonidae)." 30 pages, 36 black and white figures. March 26, 1987.
452. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., and William H. Krueger. "Biology of Freshwater Fishes of the Bermuda Ocean Acre." 187 pages, 4 black and white figures, 169 tables. June 17, 1987.
455. C. W. Hart, Jr., and Janice Clark. "An Interdisciplinary Bibliography of Freshwater Crayfishes (Astacoidea and Parastacoidea) from Aristotle through 1985." 437 pages. March 28, 1987.
Smithsonian Folklife Studies 5 Robert Sayers with Ralph Rinzler. "The Korean Onggi Potter." 292 pages, black and white frontispiece, 117 black and white figures. July 15, 1987. Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology 48. Robert F. Multhauf and Gregory Good. "A Brief History of Geomagnetism and a Catalog of the Collections of the National Museum of American History." 87 pages, 76 black and white figures. April 2, 1987. DIRECT MAIL PUBLICATIONS Books Boyne, Walter J. The Smithsonian Book of Flight. 288 pages, 186 color
and 158 black and white illustrations. May, 1987. Retail: $26.97; Associates: $22.95.
Recordings
by Nolan Porterfield. 24 page booklet with 9 illustrations accompanies 2 records or | cassette. December, 1987. Retail: $16.98: Associates: $15225:
Singers and Soloists. Selected by Martin Williams and annotated by Mark Tucker. 78 page booklet with 58 illustrations accompanies 6 records or 4 cassettes. September, 1987. Retail: $47.96; Associates: $44.96.
Smithsonian Collection of Classic Jazz. Selected and annotated by Martin Williams; biographies by Ira Gitler. 120 page booklet with 31 illustrations accompanies 7 records or 5 cassettes. February, 1987. Retail: $49.96; Associates: $44.96.

<<<Page: 157>>>

Appendix 6
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1987
Director
Robinson, M.H. 1986. Zoos today and tomorrow. American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, Regional Preceedings. Pp. 527-531.
=—=——-— . 1986. Egg-sac burying behavior in Nephila maculata: a specialized adaption. Proceedings, Ninth International Congress of Arachnology, W.G. Eberhard, H.D. Lubin and B.C. Robinson, eds., pp. 245-254, Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C.
SSSSsS -. 1987. Zoos today and tomorrow. Place, January-February, pp. 2224, Washington, D.C.
------. 1987. Phenomena, comments and notes. Smithsonian, 17(11), pp. 3037, Washington, D.C.
sae . 1987. The actual and potential role of biological research in the development of exhibits. American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, Regional Proceedings, pp. 12-18.
------. 1987. Spiders: Webs, Behavior and Evolution by William A. Shear, ed. National Geographic Research, 3(3):273-275.
------. 1986. The biological resources of Southeast Asia and future development. Proceedings, ASEAN Science and Technology Converence, Kuala Lumpur, Malasia.
------Alternatives to destruction. Biodiversity, E.0. Wilson ed., National Academy Press, Washington, D.C. (in press).
Registrar
Block, Judith A. 1987. Wildlife regulations in the United States: A review of Controlled Wildlife Volume III: State Wildlife Regulations. Zoo Biology 6:89-90.
Department of Animal Health
Brown, J.L., K.L. Goodrowe, D. Armstrong, L.G. Simmons and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Hormonal responses to GnRH and serum cortisol levels in two species of wild felidae. Proceedings. Society for the Study of Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction, Supplement 1, 36:129.
Bush, M., L.G. Phillips and R.J. Montali. 1987. Clinical management of captive tigers. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species, R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Noyes Publications, Park Ridge (in press).

<<<Page: 158>>>

Chaudhuri, M., D.G. Kleiman, D.E. Wildt, M. Bush, E.S. Frank and R.B. Thau. 1987. Urinary steroid levels during natural and induced estrus, pregnancy and pseudopregnancy in the giant panda. Proceedings. Society for the Study of Reproduction, Supplement 1, 34:146.
Citino, S.B., M. Bush and L.G. Phillips. 1987. ECG of the month. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association. 190:950-951.
Goodrowe, K.L. and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Ovarian response to human chorionic gonadotropin or gonadotropin releasing hormone in natural or inducedestrus cats. Theriogenology 29:811-817.
Howard, J.G., M. Bush, V. de Vos, M.C. Schiewe, V.G. Pursel and D.E. Wildt. 1986. Influence of cryoprotective diluent on post-thaw viability and
acrosomal integrity of spermatozoa from the African elephant (Loxodonta
africana). Journal of Reproduction and Fertility (in press).
Monfort, S.L., C. Wemmer, M. Bush, T.H. Kepler and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Effective diagnosis of pregnancy and parturition onset in Eld’s deer (Cervus eldi): Evaluation of urinary hormonal metabolites. American Association of Zoo Veterinarians. Annual Proceedings (in press).
O°Brien, S.J., G.E. Collier, R.E. Benveniste, W.G. Nash, A.K. Newman, J.M. Simonson, M.A. Eichelberger, U.S. Seal, D. Janssen, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Setting the molecular clock in Felidae: The great cats, Panthera. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species, R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal eds., Noyes Publications, Park Ridge (in press).
O’Brien, S.J., J.S. Martenson, C. Packer, L. Herbst, V. de Vos, P. Joslin, J. Ott-Joslin, D.E. Wildt and M. Bush. 1987. Biochemical genetic variation in zoogeographic isolates of African and Asiatic lions. National Geographic Society. Research Reports. (in press).
O’Brien, S.J., D.E. Wildt, M. Bush, T.M. Caro, C. FitzGibbon and R.E. Leakey. 1987. East African cheetahs: Evidence for two bottlenecks? National Academy of Sciences. Proceedings (in press).
Schiewe, M.C., M. Bush, V. de Vos and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Semen characteristics, sperm freezing and endocrine profiles in free-ranging wildebeest and greater kudu. Proceedings. Society for the Study of Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction, Supplement 1, 36:158.
Schiewe, M.C., P.M. Schmidt and D.E. Wildt. 1987. A comparative study of mouse embryo freeze preservation including the examination of the thermo-electric cryogenic device. Cryobiology 24:238-246.
Schmidt, P.M., M.C. Schiewe and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Technical considerations for freezing mammalian embryos. Annual Proceedings, American Association of Zoo Veterinarians. (in press).
<——==—= . 1987. Genotypic response of mouse embryos to multiple freezing variables. Biology of Reproduction (in press).
Wallace, R.S., M. Bush and R.J. Montali. 1987. A review of deaths from exertional myopathy at the National Zoological Park from 1975-1985. Journal of Wildlife Diseases (in press).
Wallace, R.S. and M. Bush. 1987. Exertional myopathy complicated by a ruptured bladder in a dama gazelle (Gazella dama). Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine (in press).
Wallace, R.S., R.J. Montali and M. Bush. 1987. Select diseases of captive small mammals. Procedures of the 29th International Symposium on the
Diseases of Zoo and Wild Animals, Cardiff, Wales. pp. 131-135.
Wallace, R.S. and B. Rideout. 1987. What is your diagnosis? Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association (in press).

<<<Page: 159>>>

Wildt, D.E. 1987. Strategies for the practical application of reproductive technologies to endangered species. Zoo Biology. (in press).
Wildt, D.E. and K.L. Goodrowe. 1987. The potential of applying embryo technology to the black-footed ferret. Conservation Biology and the Black-Footed Ferret, U.S. Seal, ed., Yale University Press, New Haven (in press).
Wildt, D.E., J.G. Howard, C. Morton and M. Bush. 1987. Reproductive studies of the domestic ferret as an investigational model for the black-footed ferret. American Association of Zoo Veterinarians. Annual Proceedings. (in press).
Wildt, D.E., S.J. O’Brien, J.G. Howard, T.M. Caro, M.E. Roelke, J.L. Brown and M. Bush. 1987. Similarity in ejeculate-endocrine characteristics in captive versus free-ranging cheetahs of two subspecies. Biology of Reproduction. 36:351-360.
Wildt, D.E., L.G. Phillips, L.G. Simmons, K.L. Goodrowe, J.G. Howard, J.L. Brown and M. Bush. 1987. Seminal-endocrine characteristics of the tiger and the potential for artificial breeding. Tigers of The World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species, R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds. Noyes Publications, Park Ridge (in press).
Department of Pathology
Dein, F., J.W. Carpenter, G.G. Clark, R.J. Montali, et al. 1986. Mortality of captive whooping cranes caused by eastern equine encephalitis virus. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 189:1006-1010.
Nichols, D.K., V.L. Campbell and R.J. Montali. 1986. Pansteatitis in great blue heron. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, 189:1110-1112.
Partington, C. and R.J. Montali. 1986. Capillaria in Kirk’s dik dik. Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, 17:123-128.
Plowman, C., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, Jr., L. Schlater and L. Lowenstine. 1987. Septicemia and chronic abscesses in iguanas associated with a Neiserria sp.. Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, (in press).
Montali, R.J., E.C. Ramsay, L.G. Phillips, Jr. and M. Bush. 1987. Pathology survey of captive golden lion tamarins. The Biology of the Golden Lion Tamarin, ed., Kleiman, D. (in press).
Montali, R.J. 1987. Comparisons of diseases of waterfowl in captive and free-living species. XXIX Internationalen symposium uber die erkrankungen der zootiere, Cardiff, pp./7-12.
------1987. Comparative pathology of inflammation in the higher vertebrates: A review in reptiles, birds and mammals. Journal of Comparative Pathology, (in press).
Rideout, B., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, Jr. and C. Gardiner.” I987Tortoise mortalities due to viviparous nematodes of the genus Proatractis (Family Atractidae). Journal of Wildlife Disease, 23:103108.
Rowley, M.A., E.S. Loker, J.F. Pagels and R.J. Montali. 1987. Terrestrial gastropod hosts of Parelaphostrongylus tenuis at the National Zoological Park’s Conservation and Research Center, Virginia. Journal of Parasitology, (in press).
Wallace, R.S., M. Bush and R.J. Montali. 1987. Deaths from exertional myopathy at the National Zoological Park, 1975-1985. Journal of Wildlife Diseases, (in press).
H wr ‘S)

<<<Page: 160>>>

Animal Exhibit Departments
Ballou J. and J. Seidensticker. 1987. The genetic and demographic characteristics of the 1983 captive population of Sumatran tigers (Panthera tigris sumatrae). Pp. 329347. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management, and Conservation of an Endangered Species, Noyes Publications, Park Ridge NJ.
Jenssen, T.A. and D.L. Marcellini. Tail autotomy due to courtship in Leiocephalus schreibersi (Sauria: Iguanidae). Herpetological Review, 17:89.
Marcellini, D.L. and L. Rodriguez Schettino. Some aspects of the natural history of the Cuban lizard, Anolis lucius. Herpetological Review, 18.
Seidensticker, J. 1986. Large carnivores and the consequences of habitat insularization: ecology and conservation of tigers in Indonesia and Bangladesh. Pages 1-41. S.D. Miller and D.D. Everett, eds. Cats of the World: Biology, Conservation and Management, National Wildlife Federation, Washington, D.C.
ee . 41987. Bearing witness: observations on the extinction of Panthera tigris balica and P. t. sondaica. Pages 1-8. R.L. Tilson amd U.S. Seal, eds. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management, and Conservation of an Endangered Species, Noyes Publications, Park Ridge NJ.
—-----= . 1987. Managing tigers in the Sundarbans: experience and oppertunity. Pages 416-426 R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management, and Conservation of an Endangered Species, Noyes Publications, Park Ridge NJ.
------. 1987. On the trail of the versatile leopard. Zoogoer 16 (4): 14-15.
----—. 1987. Last of the island tigers. Zoogoer 16 (4):2425.,
White, J. and D.L. Marcellini. Herplab: a family learning center at the National Zoological Park. International Zoo Yearbook. 24/25:340-343.
Department of Zoological Research
Allen, M.E., V. Rumpler, D.E. Ullrey, R.D. Earle, S.M. Schmitt and T.M. Cooley. 1987. Body composition of white-tailed deer estimated by deuterium oxide dilution. Canadian Journal of Zoology, 65:204-208.
Ballou, J.D. 1987. 1985 International Golden Lion Tamarin Studbook. National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.
Beck, B.B., J.M. Dietz, D.G. Kleiman, M.I. Castro, R.L. Sa and V.L. Luz. 1987. Reintroducao de micos-leoes dourados (Leontopithecus rosalia) (Linnaeus, 1776) (Callitrichidae, Primates) em seu ambiente natural (Reintroduction of golden lion tamarins into their natural habitat). Primatologia no Brasil, Vol. 2 (M. T. Mello, ed.).
Beissinger, S.R. 1987. Mate desertion and reproduction effort in the snail kite. Animal Behaviour, 35: 1504-1519.
—~<--— 1987. Anisogamy overcome: female strategies in snail kites. American Naturalist, 129: 486-500.
SSS 1987. The snail kite. Handbook of North American Birds, Volume IV (R. S. Palmer, Ed.), New Haven, Yale University Press (in press).
a 1986. Demography, environmental uncertainty, and the evolution of mate desertion in the snail kite. Ecology, 68: 1445-1459.
Beissinger, S.R. and N.F.R. Snyder. 1987. Mate desertion in the snail kite. Animal Behaviour, 35: 477-487.

<<<Page: 161>>>

Boness, D.J. The role of zoos in the conservation of marine mammals. Proceedings of the Symposium on Endangered Marine Animals and Marine Parks, E.G. Silas (ed.) (in press).
—<=-—— . Water quality management in aquatic mammal exhibits, Wild Mammals in Captivity, Vol. 1, S. Lumpkin (ed.), Sunderland: Sinauer Associates (in press).
Boness, D.J., W.D. Bowen and O.T. Oftedal. Evidence of polygyny from spatial patterns in the hooded seal (Cystophora cristata). Canadian Journal of Zoology (in press).
Boness, D.J., 0.T. Oftedal and K.A. Ono. The effects of El Nino on early postnatal growth of suckling California sea lions. The Effects of El Nino on Marine Mammals of the Eastern Pacific, F. Trillmich (ed.) (in
Bowen, W.D., D.J. Boness, and 0.T. Oftedal. 1987. Mass transfer from mother to pup and subsequent mass loss by the weaned pup in the hooded seal, Cystophora cristata. Canadian Journal of Zoology. 65: 1-8.
Derrickson, K.C. 1987. Yearly and situational changes in the estimate of repertoire size in northern mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos). Auk, 104:198-207.
SSS 1987. Behavioral correlates of song types of the northern mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos). Ethology, 74: 21-32.
Dietz, J.M. Conservation of the maned wolf. Canid Conservation Dossier, IUCN Special Publication (in press).
Dietz, J.M. and D.G. Kleiman. Reforestation in Poco das Antas Biological Reserve. Primate Conservation (in press).
-----Sexual dimorphism, sexual selection and mating system variability in the New World primate, the golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia) (in press).
Dittus, W.P.J. 1987. Group fusion among wild toque macaques: an extreme case of inter-group resource competition. Behaviour, 100: 247-291.
Dittus, W.P.J. and A. Baker. Behavioral research in wildlife management: rationale and techniques. Manual of Wildlife Management Techniques for Asia, S. Berwick and S. Saharia, eds., Oxford U. Press (in press).
Forman, L., D.G. Kleiman, R.M. Bush, J.D. Ballou, L. Phillips, J.M. Dietz, A. Coimbra-Filho and S.J. O’Brien. 1986. Genetic variation within and among lion tamarins. American Journal of Physical Anthropology.
Freed, L.M., C.M. York, M. Hamosh, J.T. Sturman, 0.T. Oftedal, and P. Hamosh. 1986. Bile salt stimulated lipase: the enzyme is present in nonprimate milk. Human Lactation, Vol. 2, Maternal-Environmental Factors. (M. Hamosh and A.S. Goldman, A.S. (eds.)) New York: Plenum Press.
Gittleman, J.G. and 0O.T. Oftedal. 1987. Comparative growth and lactation energetics in carnivores. Symposia of the Zoological Society of London (in press).
Gittleman, J. and S. Thompson. 1988. Energetics of mammalian reproduction: allocation of energy. American Zoologist (in press).
Glatston, A. and M. Roberts. The current status and future prospects of the red panda (Ailurus fulgens) studbook population. Zoo Biology (in press).
Goff, M.L., J.0. Whitaker and J.M. Dietz. 1987. The genus Speleocola (Acari: Trombiculidae), with description of a new species from Brazil and a key to the species. Journal of Medical Entomology.
SSeS 1987. A new species of Microtrombicula (Acari: Trombiculoidae) from the golden lion tamarin of Brazil. International Journal of Acarology.

<<<Page: 162>>>

Greenberg, R. 1987. Social facilitation does not reduce neophobia in chestnut-sided warblers, Dendroica pensylvanica. Journal of Ethology.
SES 1987. Development of dead-leaf foraging in a tropical migrant warbler. Ecology.
Guimaraes, E.F., L. Mautone, A. Mattos Filho, J.M. Dietz, L. Pinder and D.M. Pessamillio. A vegetacao da Reserva Biologica Poco das Antas, habitat do mico leao (Leontopithecus rosalia L.) (Vegetation of the Poco das Antas Biological Reserve, habitat of the golden lion tamarin). Annais do 36 Congresso Nacional de Botanica, Curitiba, Brasil (in press).
Harvey, P.H. and K. Ralls. 1986. Do animals avoid incest? Nature. 320:575-576.
Kleiman, D.G., B.B. Beck, J.M. Dietz, L.A. Dietz, J.D. Ballou, and A.F. Coimbra-Filho. 1986. Conservation program for the golden lion tamarin: captive research and management, ecological studies, educational strategies, and reintroduction. Primates: the road to self-sustaining populations, (K. Benirschke, ed.). Springer-Verlag, New York. Pp. 959979.
Kleiman, D.G. 1986. Introduction to zoological research. JZoogoer, 15(6):
3-4,----. 1986. Zoo with a zoo: The DZR animal collection. Zoogoer, 15(6): 11-14.
-----1986. The zoo afield: field research. Zoogoer, 15(6): 19-22.
=<--—= . Reintroduction programs. Wild Mammals in Captivity, Vol. 1 (Susan Lumpkin, editor). Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, MA.
Kleiman, D.G., R.J. Hoage and K.M. Green. 1987. Behavior of the golden lion tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia. Ecology and Behavior of Neotropical Primates. (R.A. Mittermeier and A.F. Coimbra-Filho (eds.)).
Kohn, F. 1986. Ghost monkey. Zoogoer. 15(4): 19-21.
== 1986. The National Zoo’s Department of Zoological Research: A three tiered philosophy to zoo research. Animal Keeper’s Forum. 13(12): 376-381. (Also presented at 1986 National Conference of American Association of Zoo Keepers, Winnipeg, Canada.)
Lillegraven, J.A., S.D. Thompson, B.K. McNab and J. Patton. 1988. The origins of eutherian mammals. Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society (in press).
Lumpkin, S. 1986. Lifestyles of the rare and exotic. Singing in the vein (sidebar). Zoogoer, 15: 5-8.
----1987. Beavers in America: Dam-nation! Zoogoer. In press.
Lumpkin, S. and J. Seidensticker. 1987. Elephants at war. Zoogoer 16 (2): 4-8.
Morton, E.S. 1986. The relationship between fruit crop sizes and removal rates by birds (with Priya Davidar). Ecology. 67:262-265.
Sa 1986. Adaptation of amplitude structure of songs to propagation in field habitat in song sparrows. Ethology. 72: 177-184. (with Eyal Shy )
a 1986. The role of distance, familiarity, and time of day in Carolina wren responses to conspecific songs. Behav. Ecol. Sociobiology. 19:393-400. (with Eyal Shy)
aa 1987. Variation in mate guarding intensity by male purple martins. Behavior.
——=——-—— 1987. Do male hooded warblers exclude females from nonbreeding territories in tropical forest? Auk. 104: 133-135. (with.J. Lynch, K. Young and P. Mehlhop)
-----1987. The effects of isolation and distance on song sharing in the Carolina wren. Wilson Bulletin (in press).
n an

<<<Page: 163>>>

ee 1987. Song type distribution in a population of the Kentucky warbler. Wilson Bulletin. (with N. Tsipoura) (in press).
Nicoll, M. and S.D. Thompson. 1987. The energetics of reproduction in therian mammals: didelphids and tenrecs. Symposium of the Zoological Society of London (in press).
Oftedal, O.T., D.J. Boness and R.A. Tedman. 1987. The behavior, physiology and anatomy of lactation in the Pinnipedia. Current Mammalogy. 1:175245.
Porton, I., D.G. Kleiman and M. Rodden. Aseasonality of bush dog reproduction and the influence of social factors on the estrous cycle. Journal of Mammalogy (in press).
Ralls, K., P.H. Harvey and A.M. Lyles. 1986. Inbreeding in natural populations of birds and mammals. Pp. 35-36 Conservation Biology: the Science of Scarcity and Diversity. (M. Soule, ed.). Sinauer.
Ralls, K., B. Lundrigan and K. Kranz. 1987. Mother-young relationships in captive ungulates: spatial and temporal patterns. Zoo Biology. 622h1-20.
-----1987. Mother-young relationships in captive ungulates: behavioral changes over time. Ethology. 75:1-14.
Ralls, K. A semi-captive breeding program for the baiji, Lipotes vexillifer: genetic and demographic considerations. Proceedings of the workshop on
Ralls, K.°and D:' B. Siniff.: 1987.5. Sea otters and oil: “ecological perspectives. (J. Gerachi, ed.), Syntheses of Information on the Effects of Oil on Marine Mammals.
Roberts, M., D. Kessler, C. Pickett and M. Davenport. Captive propagation of the rare and endangered fauna of the Indian subcontinent. Proceedings of the Centenniary Symposium of the Bombay National Historical Society (in press).
Roberts, M., K. Thompson and J. Cranford. Reproduction and growth in the punare (Thrichomys apereoides) (Rodentia: Echimyidae) of the Brazilian Caatinga with reference to the reproductive strategies of the Echimyidae. Journal of Mammalogy (in press).
Roberts, M., F. Koontz, L. Phillips and E. Maliniak. Management and biology of the prehensile-tailed porcupine, Coendou prehensilis, at the National Zoological Park and New York Zoological Park. International Zoo Yearbook (in press).
Roberts, M. Report of the North American Red Panda SSP International Studbook for the Red or lesser panda (in press).
Rudran, R. Problems and prospects for wildlife conservation in Sri Lanka. Bombay Natural History Society Centenary Volume (in press).
Schryver, H.F., 0.T. Oftedal, J. Williams, N.F. Cymbaluk, D. Antczak and H.F. Hintz. 1986. A comparison of the mineral composition of milk of domestic and captive wild equiids (Equus przewalski, E. zebra, E. burchelli, E. caballus, E. asinus). Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology. 85A:233-235.
Schryver, H.F., 0.T. Oftedal, J. Williams, L.V. Soderholm and H.F. Hintz. 1986. Lactation in the horse: The mineral composition of mare’s milk. Journal of Nutrition. 116:2142-2147.
Thompson, S.D. 1987. Body size, duration of parental care, and the intrinsic rate of natural increase in eutherian and metatherian mammals. Oecologia (Berlin). 71:201-209.
-----1987. Resource availability and microhabitat utilization by Mojave Desert Merriam’s kangaroo rats, Dipodomys merriami. Journal of Mammalogy. 68:256-265.

<<<Page: 164>>>

Thompson, S.D., K. Ono, O. Oftedal and D. Boness. 1987. Thermoregulation of neonatal California sea lions (Zalophus californianus). Physiological Zoology (in press).
Thompson, S.D. and J. Gittleman. The energetics of animal behavior.
American Zoologist (in press).
Department of Conservation
Berger, J. 1987. Reproductive fates of dispersers in a harem-dwel ling ungulate: The wild horse. Chepko-Sade and Z.T. Halpin, eds. Mammalian Dispersal Patterns: Effects of Social Structure on Population Genetics. University of Chicago Press.
SSS 1987. Resources, social systems, and phylogeny: an experimental test and its limitations. Slobochnikoff, ed. Resources and the Evolution of Social Behavior. Academic Press, New York.
Berger, J. and C. Cunningham. 1987. Influence of familiarity on frequency of inbreeding in wild horses. Evolution, 41:229-231.
Blohowiak, C.C. 1987. Baffling black ducks. Zoogoer, 16:18-19.
Blohowiak, C.C., S.R. Derrickson and E.S. Morton. 1987. Poster. Evidence for Individual Recognition and Social Preferences in the North American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes). International Ethological Conference XX, University of Wisconsin.
Boyd, L. 1986. Behavior problems of equids in zoos. pp. 653-664. S.L. Crowell-Davis and K.A. Houpt, eds. Veterinary Clinics of North America: Equine Practice and Behavior, Vol. 2, No. 3.
Collins, L. 1987. Clouded leopard. JZoogoer, 16(4):13.
Collins, L., C. Wemmer and J. Smith. The National Zoological Park Conservation and Research Center’s Small Animal Facility. International Zoo Yearbook (in press).
Derrickson, S.R. 1987. Captive propagation of whooping cranes, 1982-1984. Pp. 377-386 J.C. Lewis, ed. Proceedings of the 1985 Crane Workshop. Platte River Whooping Crane Maintenance Trust, Grand Island, Nebraska.
SSS . (1987. Current status and captive propagation of the endangered Guam rail. Pp. 187-195 A.C. Risser, ed. Proceedings of the Jean Delacour/IFCB Symposium on Breeding Birds in Captivity. International Foundation for the Conservation of Birds, North Hollywood, California.
Dinerstein, E. Deer, plant phenology and succession in South Asian lowland forests. C. Wemmer, ed. Biology and Managment of the Cervidae, Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, DC (in press).
-<---Reproductive Ecology of Fruit Bats and the Seasonality of Fruit Production in a Costa Rican Cloud Forest. Biotropica (in press).
Dinerstein, E., H.R. Mishra and C. Wemmer. Megafaunal dispersal: dissemination of Trewia nudiflora (Euphorbiaceae) by greater one-horned rhinoceros. Ecology (in press).
Dinerstein, E., C. Wemmer and H.R. Mishra. Adoption in Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis). Journal of Mammalogy (in press).
Grodinsky, C. and M. Stlwe. Return to the alps 75 years of ibex conservation. Smithsonian Magazine (in press).
Holzenbein, S. 1987. Poster. Social environments and behavior influencing dispersal of maturing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). International Ethological Conference XX.
Kock, M. and J. Berger. 1987. Chemical restraint of wild bison in Badlands National Park, South Dakota. Journal of Wildlife Diseases.

<<<Page: 165>>>

McDougl, C.W. 1987. The man-eating tiger in geographical and historical perspective. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey.
McDougal, C.W. and J.L.D. Smith. 1987. Scent Marking in Tigers. Cats of the World: Biology, Conservation and Management. Proceedings of the International Cat Symposium, Kingsville, Texas, 1982.
Mishra, H.R. and E. Dinerstein. 1987. New zip codes for resident rhinos in Nepal. Smithsonian Magazine, 66-73.
Mishra, H.R., C. Wemmer and J.L.D. Smith. 1987. Tigers in Nepal: Management conflicts with human interests. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey, pp. 449-463.
Rood, J. 1987. Dispersal and intergroup transfer in the dwarf mongoose, Mammalian Dispersal Patterns: The Effects of Social Structure on
Schwede, G. Weissedelhirschsetzzeit in Virginia. Das Tier (in press).
Schwede, G. and H. Hendrichs. 1987. Mother-offspring relations in free ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Abstract accepted for a poster at the 20th International Ethology Conference, Madison, Wisconsin.
Smith, J.L.D., C. Wemmer and H.R. Mishra. 1987. A tiger geographic information system: The first step in a global conservation strategy. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey, pp. 464-474.
Smith, J.L.D., C. McDougal and M.E. Sunquist. 1987. Land tenure system in female tigers. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey.
Smith, J.L.D., C. McDougal and D. Miquelle. Chemical communication in freeranging tigers (Panthera tigris). Animal Behavior (in press).
Stlwe, M. and C. Grodinsky. Reproductive biology of captive alpine ibex (Capra i. ibex). Zoo Biology (in press).
Wemmer, C. Ed. 1987. The Biology and Management of the Cervidae. Symposia of the National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, DC. 577 pp.
Wemmer, C. and S. Derrickson. Reintroductions: the zoobiologists dream. Prospects and problems of reintroducing captive bred wildlife. Aquariums Conference, Portland, Oregon (in press).
Wemmer, C. and C. Grodinsky. Reproduction in captive female brow-ant lered deer (Cervus eldi thamin). Journal of Mammalogy (in press).
Wemmer, C. and R. Montali. Latrine use and the subcaudal gland of the browantlered deer (Cervus eldi thamin). Journal of Mammalogy (in press).
Wemmer, C. and M. Sunquist. Snow leopard reintroductions: Economic and energetic considerations. Proceedings of the Fifth International Snow
Leopard Symposium, Srinigar (in press). Wemmer, C., J.L.D. Smith and H.R. Mishra. 1987. Tigers in the wild: The biopolitical challenges. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Tigers of
the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of Endangered Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey, pp. 396-405.

<<<Page: 166>>>

Washburn, Wilcomb E. Reply to Edmund Hanauer, American Studies Newsletter,
U.S. Information Service, American Embassy, Bonn, Germany, no. 10 (September 1986), pp. 55-56. . "The Coming of the Europeans: Epilogue,’
Chapter in
The Smithsonian Book of North American Indians before the Coming of the
Europeans by Phillip Kopper and the Editors of Smithsonian Books (Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Books, 1986), pp. 269-281.
Introduction entitled "Sport" to Part IV of Cultural Dimensions of Play, Games, and Sport, edited by Bernard Mergen (Champaign, Illinois: Human Kinetics Publishers, Inc. 1986), pp. 167-168.
“Justice Brennan's Challenge to Historians," Perspec-
tives: American Historical Association Newsletter, vol. 24, no. 9,
December 1986, pp. 19-20. . "An Alternative to Treaties," The Wall Street Journal,
Letters to the Editor, December, 24, 1986.
"As Ilhas Canarias e a Questao do Meridiano de Ref-
eréncia: A Busca do Rigor na Medi cao da Terra," Em Homenagem a Luis de
Albuquerque, in A Abertura do Mundo: Estudos de Historia dos Descobri-
mentos suropeus. Vol. 1 (Lisbon: Editorial Presenca, 1986), pp. 213-220. "Distinguishing History from Moral Philosophy and Pub-
lic Advocacy, "chapter 8 in The American Indian and the Problem of His-
tory, edited by Calvin Martin (New York: Oxford University Press, 1987), pp. 91-97.
"Do Museums Want Evaluation?," Visitor Behavior, Psy-
chology Institute, Jacksonville State University, vol. 2, no. 1 (Spring
1987-),.-p:.' 10% "A Proposed Explanation of the Closed Indian Ocean on
Some Ptolemaic Maps of the Twelfth-Fifteenth Centuries," reprinted in
Revista da Universidade de Coimbra, Vol. 32, Actas da IV Reuniao Internacional de Histéria da Nautica e da Hidrografia. Coimbra, 1985, pp. 431-441. (1987)
“Preparations and Problems of Preparing for the 500th
Anniversary of Columbus's Discovery of America," Anais Hidrograficos,
Tomo XLI (Suplemento), 1984, pp. 393-400. (1987) "The Development of the National Museum at the Smith-
sonian Institution, 1846-1855: A Response to Joel J. Orosz's Article,"
co-authored with S. Dillon Ripley, Museum Studies Journal, Vol. 2, No. 1, Spring-Summer 1987, pp. 6-11. "Stephen Saunders Webb's Interpretation of Bacon's
Rebellion," The Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, Vol. 95, No. 3 (July 1987), pp. 339-352.

<<<Page: 167>>>

Abreu, V. J.; Yee, J.-H.; Solomon, S. C.; and Dalgarno, A. “The Quenching Rate of O(!D) by (3P).” Planetary and Space Science 34 (1986): 1143.
Aksnes, K.; Franklin, F. A.; and Magnusson, P. “The Longitude Discrepancy for Mutual Satellite Phenomena Resolved.” Astronomical Journal 92(6) (1986): 1436.
Arnaud, K. A.; Johnstone, R. M.; Fabian, A. C.; Crawford, C. S.; Nulsen, P. E. J.; Shafer, R. A.; and Mushotzky, R. F. “X-Ray Observations of the Ophiuchus, PKS 0745-191 and Cygnus-A.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 227 (1987): 241.
Arnold, D. A. “The Behavior of Long Tethers in Space.” Journal of the Astronautical Sciences 35(1) (1987): 3.
Bahcall, J. N.; Field, G. B.; and Press, W. H. “Is Solar Neutrino Capture Rate Correlated with Sunspot Number?” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 320 (1987): L69.
Baliunas, S. L.; Loeser, J. G.; Raymond, J. C.; Guinan, E. F.; and Dorren, J. D. “The Surface and Atmospheric Structure of the Active G8III Star FF Aquarii.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 185. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.
Baliunas, S. L.; Raymond, J. C.; and Loeser, J. G. “Flares and Active Sectors on YY Geminorum.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 181. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.
Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. I.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Shapiro, I. I.; Bonometti, R. J.; Cohen, N. L.; Gorenstein, M. V.; and Marcaide, J. M. “VLBI Observations of the Compact Components in M82.” Highlights of Astronomy 7 (1986): 661.
Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. I.; Shapiro, I. I.; and Rogers, A. E. E. “VLBI Observations of the M81—M82 Pair of Galaxies.” In Observational Evidence of Activity in Galaxies, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 121, eds. E. Ye. Khachikian and K. J. Fricke, p. 521. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Bartel, N., Rupin, M.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Supernova 1986J in NGC 891.” IAU Circular No. 4292, January 5, 1987.
Bechtold, J.; Czerny, B.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; and Green, R. F. “X-Ray Spectra of PG Quasars II: The X-Ray-Ultraviolet Excess of PG1221+143.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 699.
Blau, S. K.; Guendelman, E. I.; and Guth, A. H. “The Dynamics of False Vacuum Bubbles.” Physics Review D 35 (1987): 1747.
Bloemhof, E. E.; Townes, C. H.; and Vanderwyck, A. H. B. “Diffraction-Limited 10 um Imaging with 3-Meter Telescopes.” Proceedings of Society of Photo-Optical InstruR mentation Engineers 627 (1986): 473.
Boyd, L. J.; Genet, R. M.; and Baliunas, S. L. “The Beginning of the Automatic Photoelectric Telescope Service.” International Amateur Professional Photoelectric Photometry Communications 25 (1986): 15.
Buch, V. “Trapping of Atoms on Disordered Corrugated Surfaces — A Statistical Wavefunction Approach.” Journal of Chemical Physics 86 (1987): 3627.
Canizares, C. R.; Fabbiano, G.; and Trinchieri, G. “Properties of the Hot, X-Ray Emitting Gas in Early Type Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 503.

<<<Page: 168>>>

Cannizzo, J. K., and Kenyon, S. J. “The Spectral Evolution of Dwarf Nova Outbursts.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 319.
Carleton, N. P.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Willner, S. P.; Lawrence, A.; and Ward, M. “The Continuum of Type 1 Seyfert Galaxies: II. Infrared Thermal and Non-Thermal Components.” Astrophysical Journal 318 (1987): 595.
Chance, K. V.; Nolt, I. G.; Zink, L. R.; Jennings, D. D.; Evenson, K. M.; Vanek, M. D.; and Radostitz, J. V. “Collisional Broadening of HCl Rotational Transitions Using Tunable Far-Infrared Radiation.” In 11th International Conference on Infrared and Millimeter Waves, Conference Digest, ed. G. Moruzzi, p. 277. Pisa: Editrice, 1986.
Chance, K. V., and Traub, W. A. “Evidence for Stratospheric Hydrogen Peroxide.” Journal of Geophysical Research 92 (1987): 3061.
Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Freeman, D. E. “Molecular Spectroscopic Constants of O2(B°d u): The Upper State of the Schumann-Runge Bands.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 119 (1986): 1.
Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Parkinson, W. H.; Guberman, S. L.; and Freeman, D. E. “Absorption Cross Section Measurements of O» in the Wavelength Region 195-241 nm of the Herzberg Continuum.” Planetary and Space Science 34 (1986): 1007.
Connor, B. J., and Radford, H. E. “Pressure Broadening of the CO J = 1—0 Rotational Transition by Ng, Og, and Air.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 119 (1986): 229.
Cooper, D. L.; Bienstock, S.; and Dalgarno, A. “Mutual Neutralization and Chemiionization in Collisions of Alkali Metal and Halogen Atoms.” Journal of Chemical Physics 86 (1987): 3845. |
Cooper, D. L., and Kirby, K. “Theoretical Study of Low-Lying !Z* and !II States of CO. I. Potential Energy Curves and Dipole Moments.” Journal of Chemical Physics 87 (1987): 424.
Cowan, J. J.; Thielemann, F.-K.; and Truran, J. W. “Recent Results in Nucleocosmochronology.” In Advances in Nuclear Astrophysics, eds. E. Vangioni-Flam, Y. Andouze, M. Casse, J. P. Clireze, and J. Trans Thanh Van, p. 477. France: Editions Frontiéres, 1987.
Coyle, L. M.; Aurilio, G.; Nystrom, G. U.; Bortz, J.; Nagy, B. G.; Chance, K. V.; and Traub, W. A. “Design of a Single-Axis Platform for Balloon-Borne Remote Sensing.” Reviews of Scientific Instruments 57 (1986): 2512.
Croswell, K.; Hartmann, L.; and Avrett, E. H. “Mass from FU Orionis Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 227.
Dalgarno, A. “Atomic Physics through Astrophysics.” In Atoms in Unusual Situations, ed. J. P. Briand, p. 21. Plenum Press, 1986.
. “Astrochemistry A Summary.” In Astrochemistry, eds. M. S. Vardya and
S. P. Tarafdar, p. 577. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
. “Molecules in the Universe.” Science Age 5 (1987): 466.
Dalgarno, A., and Layzer, D., eds. Spectroscopy of Astrophysical Plasmas. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1987.
Dalgarno, A., and Lepp, S. “Chemistry in the Early Universe.” In Astrochemistry, eds. M. S. Vardya and S. P. Tarafdar, p. 108. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
de Bra, D.; Eardley, D.; Hamilton, W.; Leung, G. S.; McMillan, B.; Matzner, R.;

<<<Page: 169>>>

Vessot, R. F. C.; Winkler, G.; Yannoni, N.; and Will, C. (Chairman) Report of the Committee on the Accuracy of Time Transfer in Space. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1986.
Delamere, W. A.; Reitsema, H. J.; Heubner, W. F.; Schmidt, W. K. H.; and Whipple, F. L. “Radiometric Observations of the Nucleus of Comet Halley.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, EK. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol. II, p. 355. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.
de Vries, H. W.; Heithausen, A.; and Thaddeus, P. “Molecular and Atomic Clouds Associated with Infrared Cirrus in Ursa Major.” Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987): 723.
Dupree, A. K. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics 24 (1986): 377.
. “The Local Interstellar Medium as Observed from LYMAN.” In Proceedings of
the Twenty-Sixth Plenary Meeting of COSPAR, Advances in Space Research. eds.
C. Gry and W. Wamsteker, p. 171. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1986.
. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” Mitteilungen der Astronomischen Gesellschaft 67 (1986): 101.
Dupree, A. K.; Baliunas, S. L.; Guinan, E. F.; Hartmann, L.; Nassiopoulos, G. E.; and Sonneborn, G. “Periodic Photospheric and Chromospheric Modulation in Alpha Orionis (Betelgeuse).” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 317 (1987): L85.
Dupree, A. K.; Kirshner, R. P.; Nassiopoulos, G. E.; Raymond, J. C.; and Sonneborn, G. “The Interstellar Medium Toward SN 1987A.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 597.
Dupree, A. K., and Reimers, D. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” In Exploring the Universe with the [UE Satellite, eds. Y. Kondo, W. Wamsteker, A. Boggess, M. Grewing, C. de Jager, A. L. Lane, J. L. Linsky, and R. Wilson, p. 321. New York: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Elvis, M.; Czerny, B.; and Wilkes, B. J. “Continuum Features in Quasars.” In The Physics of Accretion Onto Compact Objects, eds. K. O. Mason, M. G. Watson, and N. White, p. 389. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1987.
Elvis, M.; Green, R. F.; Bechtold, J.; Schmidt, M.; Neugebauer, G.; Soifer, B. T.; Matthews, K.; and Fabbiano, G. “X-Ray Spectra of PG Quasars I: The Continuum from X-Rays to Infrared.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 291.
Estes, R. D. “Alfvén Waves from an Electrodynamic Tethered Satellite System.” In Proceedings of USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting, p. 149. Boulder, Colorado: University of Colorado, 1987.
. “Alfvén Waves and the Circuit Closure Path.” In Proceedings of Electrodynamic Tether Circuit Closure Path Issues Workshop. McLean, Virgina: General Research Corporation, 1987.
Evans, N. J. II; Levreault, R.M.; Beckwith, S.; and Skrutskie, M. “Observations of Infrared Emission Lines and Radio Continuum Emission from Pre-Main-Sequence Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 364.
Everhart, E., and Marsden, B. G. “Original and Future Cometary Orbits. III.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 753.
Fabbiano, G.; Kelin, U.; Trinchieri, G.; and Wielebinski, R. “A Statistical Analysis of

<<<Page: 170>>>

the Einstein Normal Galaxy Sample: III. Radio and X-Ray Properties of Elliptical and SO Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 111.
Fabbiano, G., and Trinchieri, G. “X-Ray Observation of Spiral Galaxies: II. Images and Spectral Parameters of 13 Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 46. Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; and Van Speybroeck, L. S. “The X-Ray Spectral
Properties of the Bulge of M31.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 127.
Falco, E. E. “Gravity Makes a Spectacle of Itself.” New Scientist 113 (1987): 46.
“Ultimas Noticias Sobre el Sistema de Lente Gravitacional 0957+561 (The Latest News on the Gravitational Lens System 0957+561).” In Proceedings of V Regional Latin American Meeting of the IAU, ed. 5S. Torres-Peimbert, Revista Mexicana de Astronomia ey Astrofisica, 14(1), p. 127. Mexico City: Instituto de Astronomia, Universidad Nacional Auténoma de Mexico, 1987.
Farhi, E. H., and Guth, A. H. “An Obstacle to Creating a Universe in the Laboratory.” Physics Letters 183B (1987): 149.
Feigelson, E. D.; Wood, P. A.; Schreier, E. J.; Harris, D. E.; and Reed, M. J. “X-Rays from the Radio Halo of M87.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 101.
Field, G. B. “Theory of the Interstellar Medium.” In Highlights of Modern Astrophysics: Concepts and Controversies, eds. S. L. Shapiro and S. A. Teukolsky, p. 235. New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1986.
Field, G. B., and White, F. “A Positive Vision for the American Space Program: The Report of the National Commission on Space A Commentary.” Journal of Space Law 14 (1986): 170.
. “Principles for Pioneers.” Space Policy 3 (1987): 71.
Fleming, T.; Gioia, I.; Maccacaro, T.; and Mereghetti, S. “1E1751+7046” A New FK Comae Candidate.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 1502.
Franklin, F. A.; Cook, A. F. II; Barry, R. T. F.; Roff, C. A.; Hunts, G. E.; and de Rueda, H. B. “Voyager Observations of the Azimuthal Brightness Variations in Saturn’s Rings.” Icarus 69 (1987): 280.
Fuller, G. and Myers, P. C. “Dense Cores in Dark Clouds.” In Physical Processes in Interstellar Clouds, eds. G. E. Morfill and M. Scholer, p. 137. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Garay, G.; Moran, J. M.; and Reid, M. J. “Compact Continuum Radio Sources in the Orion Nebula.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 535.
Gilliland, R. L., and Baliunas, S. L. “Objective Characterization of Stellar Activity Cycles. I. Methods and Solar Cycle Analyses.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 766.
Gingerich, O. Editor, Scientific Genius and Creativity. New York: D. E. Freeman and Company, 1987.
“Zoomorphic Astrolabes and the Introduction of Arabic Star Names into
Europe.” From Deferent to Equant: Annals of New York Academy of Sciences 500
(1987): 89.
. “Introduction” to William Bevis. Uranographia Britannica. Norfolk: Archival
Facsimiles, 1987.
“Faintness Means Farness.” Proceedings of the Royal Institution 58 (1986):
201.

<<<Page: 171>>>

“The Mysterious Nebulae, 1610-1924.” Journal of the Royal Astronomical
Society of Canada 81 (1987): 113.
. “Foreword” to Will Tirion, Barry Rappaport, George Lovi. In Uranometria 2000.0. Richmond, Virginia: Willman-Bell, 1987.
Gioia, I. M., and Fabbiano, G. “Radio Continuum Observations of Early and Late Type Spiral Galaxies at 20 cm.” Astrophysical Journal (Supplement) 63 (1987): 771. Gioia, I.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; Stocke, J.; and Danziger, J. “The Medium Sensitivity Survey and the X-Ray Selected Quasar Sample.” In Quasars: Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 119, eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 233. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Gioia, I.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; Wolter, A.; Stocke, J. T.; Morris, S. L.; and Danziger, I. J. “Active Galactic Nuclei from the Extended Medium Survey.” In Observational Evidence of Activity in Galaxies: Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 121, eds. E. Ye. Khachikian, K. J. Fricke, and J. Melnick, p. 329. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; and Wolter, A. “X-Ray Surveys as Tools to Investigate the Cosmological Evolution of Quasars, BL Lac Objects and Clusters of Galaxies.” In Observational Cosmology, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 124, eds. A. Hewitt, G. Burbidge, and L. Z. Fang, p. 593. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Golub, L. “Theory Tested by Means of the Stars.” NASA Conference Proceedings 2358 (1986): 106.
Gondhalekar, P. M.; Wilson, R.; Dupree, A. K.; and Burke, B. F. “Ultraviolet Light Curve of the Double Quasar Q0957+561A,B and a Determination of the Hubble Constant.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 715. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.
Grabelsky, D. A.; Cohen, R. S.; May, J.; Bronfman, L.; and Thaddeus, P. “Molecular Clouds in the Carina Arm I. Large-Scale Properties of Molecular Gas and Comparison with H I.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 122.
Graff, M. M., and Dalgarno, A. “Oxygen Chemistry of Shocked Interstellar Clouds. II. Effects of Nonthermal Internal Energy on Chemical Evolution.” Astrophysical Journal 317 (1987): 432.
Green, D. W. E. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 8 (1986): 73.
. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 9 (1987): 1-136.
Green, D. W. E., and Morris, C. S. “The Visual Brightness Behavior of P/Halley during 1981-1986.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol. I, p. 613. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.
Green, D. W. E.; Rokoske, T. L.; and Morris, C. S$. “The ICQ Photometric Archive for P/Halley and Other Comets.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol. I., p. 249. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.
Grindlay, J. E.; Bailyn, C.; Mathieu, R.; and Latham, D. “Radial Velocity Study of NGC 6712.” In Globular Cluster Systems in Galaxies, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 126, eds. J. Grindlay and A. G. D. Philip, p. 659. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

<<<Page: 172>>>

Grossi, M. D. “Feasibility of an Electrodynamic Tether as a Generator and Injector of e.m. Waves From a Few Hertz to a Few Kilohertz.” In Proceedings of USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting, p. 150. Boulder, Colorado: University of Colorado, 1987.
Guberman, S. L. “Windows in Dissociative Recombination Cross Sections.” Canadian Journal of Physics 64 (1986): 1621.
.“The Production of O(!S) from the Dissociative Recombination of O3.” Nature 327 (1987): 408.
Guinan, E. F.; Wacker, S. W.; Baliunas, S. L.; Loeser, J. G.; and Raymond, J. C. “Evidence of Large-Scale Structures in the Atmosphere of the Active K-Dwarf Component of V471 Tauri.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 197. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.
Gullahorn, G. “SLACK3: High Resolution Slack Tether Simulator.” In Tether Dynamics Simulation, NASA CP-2458, p. 125. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1987.
“TSS-1 Dynamics Flight Experiments.” In Tether Dynamics Simulation, NASA CP-2458, p. 235. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1987.
Habbal, S. R., and Harvey, K. L. “Simultaneous Observations of Changes in Coronal Bright Point Emission at the 20 cm Radio and He X 10830 Wavelengths.” In Proceedings of the Coronal Plasmas and Prominences Workshop, NASA CP-2442, p. 343. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1986.
Harris, D. E., and Stern, C. P. “X-Ray Emission Associated with the Jet in 3C 273.” Astrophysical Journal 313 (1987): 136.
Hartigan, P.; Raymond, J.; and Hartmann, L. “Radiative Bow Shock Models for HH Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 323.
Hartmann, L. W.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “Kinematics of H II Regions in the Blue Irregulars NGC 4214 and NGC 4449.” Astronomical Journal 92 (1986): 1278.
Hartmann, L.; Hewett, R.; Stahler, S.; and Mathieu, R. “Rotational and Radial Velocities of T Tauri Stars. Astrophysical Journal 309 (1986): 275.
Hartmann, L., and Kenyon, S. J. “Further Evidence for Disk Accretion in FU Orionis Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 243.
Hashimoto, A., and Wood, J. A. “Enhanced Volatility of CaO in H2O-Rich Gas Environments as a Factor in the Alteration of Ca,Al-Rich Inclusions.” Meteoritics 21 (1986): 391.
Herring, T. A.; Gwinn, C. R.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Correction to ‘Geodesy by Radio Interferometry: Studies of the Forced Nutations of the Earth, 1, Data Analysis’.” Journal of Geophysical Research 91(14) (1986): 165.
Holmen, B. A., and Wood, J. A. “Chondrules That Indent One Another: Evidence for Hot Accretion?” Meteoritics 21 (1986): 399.
Huang, Y.-L., and Thaddeus, P. “Molecular Clouds and Supernova Remnants in the Outer Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 30(9) (1986): 804.
Hughes, J. P. “X-Ray Studies of the Supernova Remnant N132D: (I) Morphology.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 103.
Jennings, D. A.; Evenson, K. M.; Vanek, M. D.; Nolt, I. G.; Radostitz, J. V.; and Chance, K. V. “Airand Oxygen-Broadening Coefficients for the Og Rotational Line at 60.46 cm~!.” Geophysical Research Letters 14 (1987): 722.

<<<Page: 173>>>

Joshi, Y. N.; Mazzoni, M.; Nencioni, A.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Cantu, A. “Photoabsorption Spectrum of Atomic Sulphur.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics 20 (1987): 1203.
Keller, H. U.; Arpigny, C.; Barbieri, C.; Bonnet, R. M.; Cazes, S.; Coradini, M.; Cosmovici, C. B.; Curdt, W.; Delamere, W. A.; Huebner, W. F.; Hughes, D. W.; Jamar, C.; Kramm, R.; Malaise, D.; Reitsema, H.; Schmidt, H. U.; Schmidt, K.; Schmidt, W. K. H.; Seige, P.; Whipple, F. L.; and Wilhelm, K. “Observations by the Halley Multicolour Camera.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol. II, p. 347. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.
Keller, H. U.; Delamere, W. A.; Heubner, W. F.; Reitsema, H.; Schmidt, H. U.; Schmidt, W. K. H.; Whipple, F. L.; and Wilhelm, K. “Dust Activity of Comet Halley’s Nucleus.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol. II, p. 359. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.
Kenyon, S. J. The Symbiotic Stars. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1987.
. “Recent Activity in Two Symbiotic Stars.” Journal of the American Association of Variable Star Observers 15 (1987): 173.
Kenyon, S. J., and Fernandez-Castro, T. “The Cool Components of Symbiotic Stars I. Optical Spectral Types.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 938.
“Spectroscopic Observations of the Symbiotic Binary RW Hydrae.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 427.
Kenyon, S. J.; Fernandez-Castro, T.; and Stencel, R. E. “Far-Infrared Data for Symbiotic Stars: I. The IRAS Pointed Observations.” Astronomical Journal 92 (1986): 1118.
Kenyon, S. J., and Wade, R. A. “Spectroscopic Observations of Nova PW Vulpeculae.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 98 (1986): 935.
Kirby, K., and Heil, T. G. “A Molecular Representation of Alt? + H Charge Transfer Reactions.” Journal of Chemical Physics 85 (1986): 6420.
Kirshner, R. P.; Sonneborn, G.; Crenshaw, D. M.; and Nassiopoulos, G. E. “Ultraviolet Observations of SN 1987A.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 602.
Lafyatis, G. P., and Kohl, J. L. “Measurement of Electron Impact Excitation in BoronLike Carbon.” Physical Review A 36 (1987): 59.
Lafyatis, G. P.; Kohl, J. L.; and Gardner, L. D. “Experimental Apparatus for Measurements of Electron Impact Excitation.” Review of Scientific Instruments 58 (1987): 383.
Lawrence, A.; Watson, M. G.; Pounds, K. A.; and Elvis, M. “Low Frequency Divergent X-Ray Variability in the Seyfert Galaxy NGC 4051.” Nature 253 (1987): 694.
Le Floch, A. C.; Launay, F.; Rostas, J.; Field, R. W.; Brown, C. M.; and Yoshino, K. “Reinvestigation of the CO AIII State and Its Perturbations: The v=0 Level.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 121 (1987): 337.
Lepp, S., and Dalgarno, A. “The Ionization Rate in Dense Interstellar Clouds.” In Astrochemistry, eds. M. S. Vardya and S. P. Tarafdar, p. 255. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Levreault, R.; and Opal, C. “CCD Observations of the Counterfan in PV Cephei.”

<<<Page: 174>>>

Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 669.
Lightman, A. P., and Zdziarski, A. A. “Pair Production and Compton Scattering in Compact Sources and Comparison to Observations of Active Galactic Nuclei.” Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987): 643.
Lightman, A. P.; Zdziarski, A. A.; and Rees, M. J. “Effects of Electron-Positron Pair Opacity for Spherical Accretion onto Black Holes.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 315 (1987): L113.
Lin, F. J.; Chance, K. V.; and Traub, W. A. “Atomic Oxygen in the Lower Thermosphere.” Journal of Geophysical Research 92 (1987): 4325.
Lorenzini, E. C. “Large, Tether-Connected, Two-Dimensional Structures in Low Earth Orbit.” In Proceedings of the Pacific Basin International Symposium on Advances in Space Science Technology and Its Applications, ed. Ren Xin Min, p. 792. Beijing, China: Chinese Society of Astronautics, 1987.
“A Three-Mass Tethered System for Micro-g/Variable-g Applications.”
Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics 10(3) (1987): 242.
. “Artificial Gravity Laboratory.” In Tether Dynamics Simulation, NASA CP2458, p. 141. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1987.
MaaiG.siClarks eA -:) Ryans id. W;)Aerring.T...:A.: ;Shapiro,;. 1:.1.; :Corey,:.B..1i.; Hinteregger, H. F.; Rogers, A. BE. E.; Whitney, A. R.; Knight, C. A.; Lundqvist, G. L.; Shaffer, D. B.; Vandenberg, N. R.; Pigg, J. C.; Schupler, B. R.; and Ronnang, B. O. “Radio-Source Positions from VLBI.” Astronomical Journal 92 (1986): 1020.
Maccacaro, T.; Garilli, B.; and Mereghetti, S. “A Systematic Search for Long-Term Variability in a Large Sample of X-Ray Sources.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 1484.
Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I.; Schild, R.; Maccagni, D.; and Stocke, J. “X-Ray Emission as Evidence of Activity in Otherwise ‘Normal’ Galaxies.” In Observational Evidence of Activity in Galaxies: Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 121, eds. E. Ye. Khachikian, K. I. Fricke, and J. Melnick, p. 469. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Maccacaro, T.; Romaine, S.; and Schmitt, J. H. M. M. “Log N-Log S Slope Determination in Imaging X-Ray Astronomy.” In Observational Cosmology, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 124, eds. A. Hewitt, G. Burbidge, and L. Z. Fang, p. 597. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Maccagni, D.; Barr, P.; Garilli, B.; Gioia, I. M.; Giommi, P.; Maccacaro, T.; and Schild, R. “X-Ray Selected BL Lac Objects: Time Variability and X-Ray Spectrum.” In Quasars, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 119, eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 265. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.
Maccagni, D.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; and Stocke, J. “1E0116.3-0116: A Peculiar X-Ray Bright Early-Type Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 132.
Maggio, A.; Sciortino, S.; Vaiana, G.; Majer, P.; Bookbinder, J.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; and Rosner, R. “Einstein Observatory Survey of X-Ray Emission from Solar-Type Stars: The Late F and G Dwarf Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 687.
Malagoli, A.; Rosner, R.; and Bodo, G. “On the Thermal Instability of Galactic and Cluster Halos.” Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987): 632.

<<<Page: 175>>>

McClintock, J. E. “Black Holes in X-Ray Binaries.” In The Physics of Accretion Onto Compact Objects, Lecture Notes on Physics, vol. 266, eds. K. D. Mason, M. G. Watson, and N. E. White, p. 211. Berlin: Spinger-Verlag, 1986.
Marsden, B. G. “Comets in 1984.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 27 (1986): 590.
Catalogue of Orbits of Unnumbered Minor Planets, 2nd edition, 147 pp.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: Minor Planet Center, 1986.
. Catalogue of Discoveries and Identifications of Minor Planets. 2nd edition,
141 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Minor Planet Center, 1986.
. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 10885-11464, 1986.
. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 11465-12164, 1987.
Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. (editors) International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4234-421, 1986.
. (editors) International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4292-4438, 1987.
Marvin, U. B. “The Planetary and Interstellar Components of Meteorites: A Review.” In Astrochemistry, eds. M. S. Vardya and S. D. Tarafdar, p. 469. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.
Marvin, U. B.; Lindstrom, M. M.; Bernatowicz, T. J.; Podosek, F. A.; and Sugiura, N. “The Composition and History of Breccia 67015 from North Ray Crater.” Journal of Geophysical Research 92(B4) (1987): E471.
Mattison, E. “How to Shop for Instruments.” Physics Today (Buyers’ Guide Issue) 40 (1987): BG17.
Mattison, E.; Vessot, R. F. C.; Bain, C.; Wasserman, S.; and Whitesides, G. “Surface Interactions of Atomic Hydrogen with Teflon.” In Proceedings of 41st Annual Frequency Control Symposium, p. 95. New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1987.
Mauche, C. W., and Raymond, J. C. “IUE Observations of HL CMa and the Winds of CVs.” In Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 93, Cataclysmic Variables, Astrophysics and Space Science 130 (1987): 269.
Mazzoni, M.; Joshi, Y. N.; Nencioni, A.; Grisendi, T.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Photoabsorption Spectrum of Atomic Bismuth.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and Molecular Physics 20 (1987): 2193.
Mereghetti, S.; Garilli, B.; and Maccacaro, T. “Search for Flux Variability in a Sample of X-Ray Sources Dominated by Poisson Statistics.” In Proceedings of the Meeting on “Variability of Galactic and Extragalactic X-Ray Sources,” ed. A. Treves, p. 247. Bologna: Associacione per |’Avanzamento della Astronomia, 1987.
Molnar, L. A. “Cygnus X-3.” In Proceedings of ESA Workshop, The Physics of Accretion Onto Compact Objects,” eds. K. Mason, M. Watson, and N. White, p. 313. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1986.
Molnar, L. A., and Mauche, C. W. “Effects of the Scattering Halo on the Observational Properties of Cygnus X-3.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 343.
Moran, J. M.; Elvis, M.; Fazio, G.; Ho, P. T. P.; Myers, P. C.; Reid, M. J.; and Willner, S. “The SAO Submillimeter-Wavelength Telescope Array.” In Radio Astronomy from Space, ed. K. Weiler, pp. 111-116. Green Bank, West Virginia: National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 1987.
Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; and Sams, B. “Expansion of Ultra Compact HII Regions in

<<<Page: 176>>>

Star Forming Regions.” In Star Forming Regions, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 115, eds. M. Peimbert and J. Jugaku, p. 197. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; Schneps, M. H.; Gwinn, C. R.; Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; and Ronnang, B. “The Distance to the Center of the Galaxy.” In The Galactic Center, Proceedings of AIP Conference 155, p. 166. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1987.
Morris, 8S. L.; Schmidt, G. D.; Leibert, J.; Stocke, J.; Gioia, I.; and Maccacaro, T. “1E1048.5+5421: A New 114-Minute AM Herculis Binary.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 641.
Murray, 8S. S.; Chappell, J. H.; Elvis, M. S.; Forman, W. R.; Grindlay, J. E.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; Jones, C. F.; Maccacaro, T.; Tananbaum, H. D.; Vaiana, G. S.; Pounds, K. A.; Fraser, G. W.; and Henry, J. P. “The AXAF High Resolution Camera (HRC) and Its Use for Observations of Distant Clusters of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Letters and Communications 26 (1987): 113.
Myers, P. C. “Dense Cores and Young Stars in Dark Clouds.” In Star Forming Regions, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 115, eds. M. Peimbert and J. Jugaku, p. 33. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
“Observations of Molecular Cloud Structure and Internal Motions.” In Interstellar Processes, eds. D. Hollenbach and H. Thronson, p. 71. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Myers, P. C.; Fuller, G.; Mathieu, R.; Beichman, C.; Benson, P.; Schild, R.; and Emerson, J. “Infrared and Optical Observations of Young Stars In and Near Dense Cores.” Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987): 340.
Neufeld, D. A., and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer in Collisions of Doubly Charged Ions of Iron and Nickel with Hydrogen Atoms.” Physical Review A 35 (1987): 3142.
Nisenson, P., and Karovska, M. “Speckle Imaging at CfA.” In Proceedings of ESONOAO Conference on High Angular Resolution in Astronomy, ed. J. Beckers, p. 229. Tucson: National Optical Astronomy Observatories, 1987.
Nisenson, P., and Traub, W. “Magnitude Limit of the Group Delay Fringe Tracking Method for Long Baseline Interferometry.” In Proceedings of ESO-NOAO Conference on High Angular Resolution in Astronomy, ed. J. Beckers, p. 129. Tucson: National Optical Astronomy Observatories, 1987.
Noci, G.; Kohl, J. L.; and Withbroe, G. L. “Solar Wind Diagnostics from Doppler Enhanced Scattering.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 706.
Nolt, I. G.; Chance, K. V.; Zink, L. R.; Jennings, D. A.; Evenson, K. M.; Vanek, M. D.; and Radostitz, J. V. “Collisional Broadening of OH Rotational Transitions Using Tunable Far-Infrared Radiation.” In 11th International Conference on Infrared and Millimeter Waves, Conference Digest, ed. G. Moruzzi, p. 286. Pisa: Editrice, 1986.
Nolt, I. G.; Predko, 8.; Radostitz, J. V.; Moseley, J. T.; Ade, P. A. R.; Robinson, F. D.; and Chance, K. V. “A Far-Infrared Polarization Interferometer with 5 Meter Path Difference.” In 11th International Conference on Infrared and Millimeter Waves, R Conference Digest, ed. G. Moruzzi, p. 147. Pisa: Editrice, 1986.
Noyes, R. W., and Avrett, E. H. “The Solar Chromosphere.” In Spectroscopy of Astrophysical Plasmas, eds. A. Dalgarno and D. Layzer, p. 125. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1987.

<<<Page: 177>>>

Nyman, L.-A.; Bronfman, L.; Cohen, R. S.; and Thaddeus, P. “A Large Molecular Cloud in Lupus Far from the Galactic Plane.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 374.
Owocki, S. P., and Rybicki, G. B. “Instabilities in Line-Driven Stellar Winds: III. Wave Propagation in the Case of Pure Line Absorption.” Astrophysical Journal 309 (1986): 127.
Paque, J. A. “CaAl4O7 from Allende Type A Inclusion 4691.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVIII, p. 762. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1987.
Parkinson, W. H. “Laboratory Astrophysics: Atomic Spectroscopy.” In Spectroscopy of Astrophysical Plasmas, eds. A. Dalgarno and D. Layzer, p. 302. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1987.
Peck, J. A., and Wood, J. A. “The Origin of Ferrous Zoning in Allende Chondrule Olivines.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 51 (1987): 1503.
Reasenberg, R. D. “Solar-System Tests in Transition.” In Proceedings of the Ninth Course of the International School of Cosmology and Gravitation: Topological Properties and Global Structure of Space-Time, eds. P. G. Bergmann and V. deSabbata, p. 177. New York: Plenum Press, 1986.
“POINTS: A Small Astrometric Interferometer.” In Proceedings of the
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 24th Annual International
Technical Symposium on Optical and Electro-Optical Engineering, Large Optics
Technology, ed. G. M. Sanger, pp. 245-251. Bellingham, Washington: SPIE57,
1986.
. “Microarcsecond Astrometric Interferometry.’ In Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 109, Astrometric Techniques, eds. H. K. Eichhorn and R. J. Leacock, p. 321. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.
Reasenberg, R. D.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Prospects for Observations of Relativistic Effects in the Solar System.” In Relativity in Celestial Mechanics and Astrometry, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 114, eds. J. Kovalevsky and V. A. Brumberg, p. 383. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.
Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Gwinn, C. R. “HyO Masers and the Cosmic Distance Scale.” In Radio Astronomy from Space, ed. K. Weiler, p. 145. Green Bank, West Virginia: National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 1987.
Reid, M. J.; Myers, P. C.; and Bieging, J. “The Circumstellar Envelope of W3(OH): NHg3 Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 830.
Reid, M. J.; Schneps, M. H.; Moran, J. M.; Gwinn, C. R.; Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; Ronnang, B. “The Distance to the Center of the Galaxy.” In Star Forming Regions, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 115, eds. M. Peimbert and J. Jugaku, p. 554. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Reitsema, H. J.; Delamere, W. A.; Huebner, W. F.; Keller, H. U.; Schmidt, W. K. H.; Wilhelm, K.; Schmidt, H. U.; and Whipple, F. L. “Nucleus Morphology of Comet Halley.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol. II, p. 351. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.
Roncin, J.-Y.; Launay, F.; and Yoshino, K. “New Emission Bands in the High Resolution Vacuum Ultra-Violet Spectrum of Molecular Nitrogen.” Planetary and Space Science 35 (1987): 267.

<<<Page: 178>>>

Rybicki, G. B. “A Gridless Fourier Method.” In The Use of Supercomputers in Stellar Dynamics, eds. P. Hut and $8. McMillan, p. 181. Berlin, Springer-Verlag, 1986. Schmitt, J. H. M., and Maccacaro, T. “Number-Counts Slope Estimation in the
Presence of Poisson Noise.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 334.
Schwartz, D. A. “Use of a Minimum Rate of Change Formalism to Quantify Variability of Extragalactic X-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical Journal 318 (1987): 568.
Seward, F. D. “Neutron Stars in Twelve Supernova Remnants.” The Origin and Evolution of Neutron Stars, eds. D. J. Helfand and J. H. Huang, p. 99. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Shapiro, I. I. “Faraway Quasars.” Nature (Letter to the Editor) 324 (1986): 10.
Silva, D. R.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Mereghetti, S.; and Stocke, J. “Spectroscopic Observations of X-Ray Selected Stars.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 869.
Smith,--P.. L Huber, M. C. 3. -Kuhne, M.;.° Parkinson;,, W., H.;and Kock, M. “Absolute Extreme-Ultraviolet Solar Spectral Irradiance Monitor on Space Station/Columbus.” In Proceedings of the ESA/BNSC/CNES Workshop on Solar Terrestrial Physics on Space Station/Columbus, eds. A. Balogh, D. A. Bryant, R. A. Jeans, and D. R. Lepine, p. 146. Chilton, Didcot: Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, 1986.
Smith, P. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; Kiihne, M.; Huber, M. C. E.; and Kock, M. “Absolute Extreme-Ultraviolet Solar Spectral Irradiance Monitor.” In Eighth Workshop on the Vacuum Ultraviolet Radiometric Calibration of Space Experiments, ed. D.C. Ebbets, paper IJ-10. Boulder: Ball Corporation, 1987.
Smith, P. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; Wheaton, J. E. G.; Thorne, A. P.; and Harris, C.J. “Imaging, High-Resolution, Vacuum Ultraviolet Spectrometer.” In Proceedings of SPIE Conference 687, Ultraviolet Technology, ed. R. Huffman, p. 81. Bellingham, Washington: Proceedings of SPIE — The International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986.
Sonneborn, G.; Baliunas, S. L.; Dupree, A. K.; Guinan, E. F.; and Hartmann, L. “LongTerm Spectroscopic Monitoring of Alpha Orionis.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 221. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.
Stark, G.; Yoshino, K.; and Smith, P. L. “A High Resolution Study of the Vacuum Ultraviolet Spectrum of CS: The B!n* —X!50+ system.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 124 (1987): 420.
Staubert, R.; Brunner, H.; and Worrall, D. M. “EXOSAT Observations of 3C 371.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 694.
Stauffer, J. R., and Hartmann, L. “The Rotational Velocities of Low-Mass Stars.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 98 (1986): 1233.
. “Rotational Velocities of Low-Mass Stars in the Pleiades. II.” Astrophysical Journal 318 (1987): 337.
Stauffer, J. R.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Latham, D. W. “Rotational Velocities of Low Mass Stars in the Hyades.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 320 (1987): L51.
Sternberg, A.; Dalgarno, A.; and Lepp, S. “Cosmic-Ray Induced Photodestruction of Interstellar Molecules in Dense Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 676.
Stocke, J.; Schneider, P.; Morris, S. L.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; and Schild, R. “X-Ray Selected AGNs Near Bright Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 315

<<<Page: 179>>>

Stolper, E., and Paque, J. M. “Crystallization Sequences of Ca-Al-Rich Inclusions from Allende: The Effects of Cooling Rate and Maximum Temperature.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 50 (1986): 1785.
Thomas, P. A.; Fabian, A. C.;.Arnaud, K. A.; Jones, C.; and Forman, W. “The Prevalence of Cooling Flows in Early-Type Galaxies.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 222 (1986): 655.
Traub, W. A.; Chance, K. V.; and Coyle, L. M. “Performance of a Single Axis Platform for Balloon-Borne Remote Sensing.” Reviews of Scientific Instruments 57 (1986): 2519.
Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Canizares, C. R. “The X-Ray Surface Brighteness Distribution and Spectral Properties.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 637.
Tuohy, I.; Buckley, D.; Remillard, R.; Bradt, H.; and Schwartz, D. “Identification of Two Southern X-Ray Emitting Cataclysmic Variables.” Astrophysical Journal 311 (1986): 275.
Ulmschneider, P.; Muchmore, D.; and Kalkofen, W. K. “Acoustic Tube Waves in the Solar Atmosphere I. Magnesium and Calcium Line Emission with Complete Redistribution.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 177 (1987): 292.
Ungerechts, H., and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Dark Nebulae in Perseus, Taurus, and Auriga.” Astrophysical Journal (Supplement) 63 (1987): 645.
van Ballegooijen, A. A. “Cascade Model of Coronal Heating.” In Proceedings of the SMM Workshop on Coronal and Prominence Plasmas, CP 2442, ed. A. Poland, p. 439. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1986.
Verbunt, F.; Shafer, R. A.; Jansen, F.; Arnaud, K. A.; and Van Paradijs, J. “A Soft X-Ray Observation of w Centauri with EXOSAT.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 168 (1986): 169.
Vessot, R. F. C. “A Hydrogen Maser Clock for Space: Clocks in Future Possible and Improbable Applications.” In Proceedings of the Workshop at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory, p. 195. Green Bank, West Virginia: National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 1986.
Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Walsworth, R. L., Jr.; Silvera, I. F.; Godfried, H. P.; and Agosta, C. C. “A Hydrogen Maser at Temperatures Below 1K.” IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurements IM-36(2) (1987): 588.
Vilenkin, A., and Field. G. B. “Quasars and Superconducting Cosmic Strings.” Nature 326 (1987): 772.
Vrtilek, J. M.; Gottlieb, C. A.; LePage, T. J.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Radio Spectrum of Cyclopropene.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 826.
Vrtilek, J. M.; Gottlieb, C. A.; and Thaddeus, P. “Laboratory and Astronomical Spectroscopy of C3Hg, the First Interstellar Organic Ring.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 716.
Ward, M.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Carleton, N. P.; Willner, S. P.; and Lawrence, A. “The Continuum of Type 1 Seyfert Galaxies: I. A Single Form Modified by the Effects of Dust.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 74.
Welther, B. “Martha Betz Shapley: First Lady of Harvard College Observatory 19211952.” Journal of the American Association of Variable Star Observers 15 (1986): 282.

<<<Page: 180>>>

. “Physics in the Dark Ages.” The Physics Teacher 25 (1987): 255.
Whitney, C. “The Skies of Vincent van Gogh.” Art History 9 (1986): 351.
. “Casino Physics in the Classroom.” American Journal of Physics 54 (1986): 1079.
Whipple, F. L. “News from Visits to Halley’s Comet.” In Papers Read at a Joint Meeting of the Royal Society and the American Philosophical Society, Symposium on Halley’s Comet, American Philosophical Society Special Publication No. 44, vol. 2, p. 1. Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1987.
Wood, J. A. “Comet Nucleus Models: A Review.” In Comet Nucleus Sample Return, ESA SP-249, p. 123. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.
“Planning a Sample-Return Mission to a Comet Nucleus.” Meteoritics 21 (1986): 542.
“Was Chondritic Material Formed During Large-Scale, Protracted Nebular Evolution or by Transient Local Events in the Nebula?” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVIII, p. 1100. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1987.
Worrall, D. M. “Luminosity Dependence in the Ratio of X-Ray to Infrared Emission of QSOs.” Astrophysical Journal 318 (1987): 188.
“Superluminal Radio Sources: What Does X-Ray Emission Tell Us?” In
Superluminal Radio Sources, Proceedings of a Workshop, eds. J. A. Zensus and
T. J. Pearson, p. 251. England: Cambridge University Press, 1987.
“Correlation of X-Ray and Infrared Emission of Radio-Quiet QSOs.” In Observational Cosmology, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 124, eds. A. Hewitt, G. Burbidge, and L. Z. Fang, p. 607. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.
Worrall, D. M.; Giommi, P.; Tananbaum, H.; and Zamorani, G. “A Statistical Study of the Relationship between X-Ray, Optical and Radio Luminosity for a Sample of QSOs.” In Quasars, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 119, eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 263. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.
“X-Ray Studies of Quasars with the Einstein Observatory (IV): X-Ray Dependence on Radio Emission.” Astrophysical Journal 313 (1987): 596.
Yee, J.-H., and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Lifetime Analysis of the Shuttle Optical Glow.” Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets 23 (1986): 635.
. “Energy Transfer of O(!D) Atoms in Collision with O(?P) Atoms.” Planetary and Space Science 35 (1987): 399.
Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Esmond, J. R.; and Parkinson, W. H. “High Resolution Absorption Cross Sections and Band Oscillator Strengths of the Schumann-Runge Bands of Oxygen at 79 K.” Planetary and Space Science 35 (1987): 1067.
Zdziarski, A. A., and Lightman, A. P. “Relativistic Plasmas in Active Galactic Nuclei.” In Proceedings of Conference on Variability of Galactic and Extragalactic X-Ray Sources, ed. A. Treves, p. 121. Milan: Associazone per L’avanzaneto Dell’astronomia, 1987.
Zygelman, B., and Dalgarno, A. “Impact Excitation of the n=2 Fine-Structure Levels in Hydrogen-Like Ions by Protons and Electrons.” Physical Review A 35 (1987): 4085.

<<<Page: 181>>>

Correll, D. L. "Nutrients in Chesapeake Bay. In Contaminant Problems and Management of Living Chesapeake Bay Resources (1987): 298-320. Edited by S. K. Majumdar, L. W. Hall, Jr. and H. M. Austin. The Pennsylvania Academy of Science.
Correll, D. L., Miklas, J. J., Hines, A. H., and Schafer, J. J. "Chemical and Biological Trends Associated with Acidic Atmospheric Deposition in the Rhode River Watershed and Estuary." In Water, Air, and Soil Pollution 351987), -.63-86.
Hines, A. H., Lipcius, R. N., and Haddon, A. M. "Population Dynamics and Habitat Partitioning by Size, Sex, and Molt Stage of Blue Crabs (Callinectes sapidus) in a Subestuary of Central Chesapeake Bay." In Marine Ecology, Progress Series 36 (1987): 55-64.
Hull, J. C. and Whigham, D. F. "Vegetation Patterns in Six Bogs and Adjacent Forested Wetlands on the Inner Coastal Plain of Maryland." In Atlantic White Cedar Wetlands (1987): 143-173. Edited by A. D. Laderman. Westview Press.
Jordan: Is.-Es«,. Pterce, J. W., and. Correll, De JL. "Flux of Particulate Matter in the Tidal Marshes and Subtidal Shallows of the Rhode River Estuary." In Estuaries 9 (1986): 310-319.
Lynch, J. Fr. "Responses of Breeding Bird Communities to Forest FragmentaiON. In Nature Conservation: The Role of Remnants of Native Vegetation (1987): 123-140. Edited by D. A. Saunders, G. W. Arnold, A. A. ae and A. J. M. Hopkins. Surrey Beatty and Sons.
Mehlhop, P. and Lynch, J. F. "Bird Habitat Relationships Along a Successional Gradient in the Maryland Coastal Plain." In The American Midland Naturalist 116 (1986): 225-239.
Stephens, D. W., Lynch, J. F., Sorensen, A. E., and Gordon, C. “Preference and Profitability: Theory and Experiment." In The American Natural 1st, b27 (1986): 533-553:
Whigham, D. F. “Water Quality Studies of Six Bogs on the Inner Coastal Plain of Maryland." In Atlantic White Cedar Wetlands (1987): 85-90. Edited by A. D. Laderman. Westview Press.
Whigham, D. F. “Ecosystem Processes and Biogeographical Considerations." In Atlantic White Cedar Wetlands (1987): 371-373. Edited by A. D. Laderman. Westview Press.
Sx, William E. "Guide to the Parers cz Paul D.. Hurce, Jz., 1928-19382; and: undated." Guides to Collections in the Smithsonian Archives, no. 6. “Archives and Special Collectisons oz the Smichsonten Insti suticn., Washingtcn, D. C.: Smithsenian Archives;71w1¢37<
Moss, William W. “Archives in the People's Republic of China Revisited." The American Archivist 49 (Fall, 1886) :481-490.
Steed, James A. "Guide to the Records cf the Office of the Secretary (Gherles "DS. Walcot=); 1s90=1929. Guides to Collections in -tne Smithsenian Archives, no. 5. Archives and Special Collecticns’ cit thre Smztnsenien, Instituticn,. 1987.

<<<Page: 182>>>

Bedini, Silvio A. "The Galilean Jovilabe," Annali di Storia della Scienza anno I, fasc. 1 (1986):25-46.
“Rowland Houghton's 'New Theodolate,'" Rittenhouse: Journal of the American Scientific Instrument Enterprise I (2) (February 1987):30-39.
Review of Gli Strumenti del Gabinetto di Fisica ell'rIstituto Tecnico Toscano, I: Acoustica by Paolo Brenni (Florence: Biblioteca dell'Assessorato alla Cultura, 1986).
» Review of La Biblioteca dell'Istituto Tecnico Toscano, TI: Libri Antichi: Catalogo (1482-1799) by Guido Gori and Massimo Misiti (Florence: Biblioteca dell'Assessorato alla Cultura, 1986).
Review of Il Teatro di Filosofia Sperimentale di Giovanni Poleni, Mostra di Strumenti Scientifici, Padova, Pallazzo della Ragione, 15 Marzo-27 Aprile 1986 by Gian Antonio Salandin and Maria Pancino (Padua: Universita degli Studi di Padova, 1986).
. Review of Der Drechselude Souvrann, Materialien zu Hiner Furstlichen Maschinenkunst by Klaus Maurice Zurich: Verlag Ineichen).
Review of Gli Strumenti nella Storia e nella Filosofia della Scienza ed. by Gino Tarozzi (Bologna: Istituto per i Beni Artistici Culturali Naturali della Regione Emilia-Romagna, 1985).
. Review of Leopoldo Nobili e la Cultura Scientifica del suo Tempo ed. by Gino Tarozzi (Bologna: Nuova Alfa Editoriale, 1986).
Review of La Collezione degli Antichi Aparecchi dell'Istituto di Fisica: Elettricita e Magnetismo (1835-1900) by EZio Regozzino and Edvige Schettino (Naples: Universita degli Studi di Napoli, 1986) in Bulletin of the Scientific Instrument Society ll (1986):9-11l.
Review of Catalogo della Corrispondenza degli Astronomi di Brera 1726-1799 by Agnese Mandrino, Guido Tagliaferri, and Pasquale Tucci (Milan: Universita degli Studi di Milano, 1986) in Bulletin of the Scientific Instrument Society 12 (1987):19.
. Review of The Time MuSeum: Catalogue of the Collection. Volume I: Time Measuring Instruments. Part I: Astrolabes/Astrolabe Related Instruments. Section 3: Water-Clocks/Sand-Glasses/Fire-Clocks. by Anthony J. Turner (Rockford: Time Museum, 1984-5) in Technology and Culture 28 (January 1987):159-61,
Child, Margaret. "NEH Support for Special Collections." Library Trends. 36 (1)(Summer 1987):215-227. Kenyon, Kay. "Spotlight on National Zoological Park Library." Biofeedback (Biological Sciences Division Special Library Association Newsletter), 12 (4):4-5.
Library News for Zoos and Aquariums, #15, June 1987.
The Recommended List of Books and Other Resources for Z00 and Aquarium Libraries. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1987.
Knudsen, Monica. "The Institution's Institution," Air and Space Smithsonian 2 (1)(April/May 1987):28-9.

<<<Page: 183>>>

Stanley, Janet. Review of Ahmadu Bello University Thesis and Dissertation Abstracts. 1962-1978 by Joe Ezeji in African Book Publishing Record 12 (3)(1986):154.,
Wells, Ellen B. Review of How to Ride a Winning Dressage Test: The Judge's Guide to Step-to-Step Improvement by Jonathan R. Burton and Darlene Sordillo (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1985) in Dressage and CT 4 (January 1987):10-12.
Review of An Early History of Horsemanship. by A. Azzaroli. (Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1985) in Technology and Culture 28 2) eCApEeTiy 1938 7-)'33'48".
Abele, L. G., Campanella, P. J. and Salmon, M. "Natural History and Social Organization of the Semiterrestrial Grapsid Crab Pachygrapsus
transversus (Gibbes)." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 104(1986): 153-170.
Ackerman, J. D. and Montalvo, A. M. "Two New Species of Epidendrum with Lateral Inflorescences." Selbyana 9(1)(1986): 126-129.
Aide, T. M. "“Limbfalls: a Major Cause of Sampling Mortality for Tropical Forest Plant." Biotropica 19(3): 284-285.
----"The Influence of Wind and Animal Pollination on Variation in Outcrossing Rates." Evolution 40(2)(1986): 434-435.
Aiello, A. "Genuchinus muzo Krikken (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) Larvae
Reared from a Bird’s Nest in Panama." The Coleopterists Bulletin 41(3) (1987): 259-262
Angermeier, P. L. and Karr, J. R. "Applying an Index of Biotic Integrity Based on Stream-Fish Communities: Considerations in Sampling and
Interpretation." North American Journal of Fisheries Management 6(1986): 418-429.
Augspurger, C. K. and Franson, S. E. "Wind Dispersal of Artificial Fruits Varying in Mass, Area, and Morphology." Ecology 68(1)(1987): 27-42.
Baker, E. W., Roubik, D. W. and Delfinado-Baker, M. "The Developmental Stages and Dimorphic Males of Chaetodactylus panamensis, n. sp. (Acari: Chaetodactylidae) Associated with Solitary Bee (Apoidea:
Anthophoridae). International Journal of Acarology 13(1)(1987): 65-73.
Baker Berrio, Esmeraldo M. "Agrupamiento segun Relacidén Genética en Recién Nacidos de Iguana iguana." Thesis, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (1987). Panama: Universidad de Panama.
Batten, M. "Body Talk Beneath the Sea." Calypso Log 13(4)(1986): 14-15.

<<<Page: 184>>>

Becker, P. and Rundel, P. W. "Relaciones Hidricas y Fenologia Vegetativa en el Sotobosque de un Bosque Tropical Humedo en Barro Colorado, Panama. (Afiche)." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Ndjera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 223.
Belwood, J. J. and Morris, G. L. "Bat Predation and its Influence on Calling Behavior of Neotropical Katyclids." Science 238(1987): 64-67.
Bermingham, E. and Lessios, H.A. "Mitochondrial DNA and Protein Divergence Between Organisms Separated by the Isthmus of Panama." Genetics 1165(1987): 18.
Bock, B. C., Rand, A. S. and Burghardt, G. M. "Seasonal Migration and Nesting Site Fidelity in the Green Iguana." In Migration: Mechanisms and Adaptive Significance (1985): 435-443. Edited by M. A. Rankin. Port Aransas, Texas: University of Texas Marine Science Institute.
Boreham, M. M. and Roubik, David W. "Population Change and Control of Africanized Honey Bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae) in the Panama Canal Area." Bulletin of the ESA Spring (1987): 34-39.
Brawn, J. D. "Nest Boxes and Western Bluebirds in Arizona’s Pine Forests." Sialia 9(1987): 123-126.
Brawn, J. D., Boecklen, W. J. and Balda, R. P. “Investigations of Density Interactions among Breeding Birds in Ponderosa Pine Forests: Correlative and Experimental Evidence." Oecologia 72(3)(1987): 348-357.
Bricefio, R. D. "Como las Arafias Determinan el Tamafio de Camada."° In Proceedings of the Ninth International Congress of Arachnology, Panama 1983 (1986): 25-28. Edited by W. G. Eberhard, Y. D. Lubin and B. C. Robinson. Washington D.C.: Published for the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Brokaw, N. V. L. "Algunos Aspectos Importantes en el Estudio de la Demografia de Plantas en los Bosques Tropicales." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 205-206.
----. "Gap-Phase Regeneration of Three Pioneer Tree Species in a Tropical Forest." Journal of Ecology 75(1)(1987): 9-19.
Brokaw. N. V. L. and Mallory, E. P. "Crecimiento de Arboles en Aberturas Experimentales en un Bosque Tropical (Afiche)." In Ecologia y
Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol.
35,4 SUPPe AGIOS Te 2 Be
Brucher, H. "The Isthmus of Panama as a Crossroad for Prehistoric Migration of Domesticated Plants." GeoJournal 14(1)(1987): 121-122.

<<<Page: 185>>>

Burgett, J. M., Cubit, J. D. and Thompson, R. C. "Seasonal Growth Patterns in the Tropical Littorinid Snails Littorina angulifera and Tectarius muricatus." The Veliger 30(1)(1987): 11-23.
Candanedo, M. "Biologia Para Todos: La Biblioteca del Smithsonian" El Ejecutivo Septiembre-Octubre (1985): 10-11.
Chandler, D. S. and Wolda, H. "Seasonality and Diversity of Caccopletus, with a Review of the Genus and Description of a New Genus,
Caccoplectinus (Coleoptera: Pselaphidae)." Zool. Jb. Syst. 113(1986): 469-524.
Choe, J. C. and Timm, R. M. "Roosting Site Selection by Artibeus watsoni (Chiroptera: Phyllostomidae) on Anthurium ravenii (Araceae) in Costa
Rica." Journal of Tropical Ecology 1(1985): 241-247.
Christy, J. H. "Timing of Larval Release by Intertidal Crabs on an Exposed Shore." Bulletin of Marine Science 39(2)(1986): 176-191.
Coley, P. D. "Patrones en las Defensas de las Plantas: Por qué los Herbivoros Prefieren Ciertas Especies?" In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia
de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 151-164.
Cooke, R. G. "La Arqueologia del Panama Precolombino y su Importancia para los Estudios de los Pueblos de Habla Chibcha." In Memorias del Primer Simposio Cientifico sobre Pueblos Indigenas de Costa Rica (1987): 81-95. Edited by R. Barrantes, M.E. Bozzoli and P. Gudifio. San José, Costa Rica: Comcit/Universidad de Costa Rica/Instituto Cartografico.
----. "El Motivo del "Ave de las Alas Desplegadas" en la Orfebreria de Panama y Costa Rica." In Metalurgia de América Precolombina, 450. Congreso Internacional de Americanistas 1985 (1986): 137-168. Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia.
Craig, C. L. "Prey Capture among Orb-Weaving Spiders." (Abstract). In Proceedings of the Ninth International Congress of Arachnology, Panama 1983 (1986): 309. Edited by W. G. Eberhard, Y. D. Lubin and B. C. Robinson. Washington D.C.: Published for the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
----. "The Ecological and Evolutionary Interdependence Between Web Architecture and Web Silk Spun by Orb Web Weaving Spiders."
Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 30(2)(1987): 135-162.
Cubist hed SjeGetters CicDs5"Jaekson; J. Bi Ca, «Garrity ts. De; eCarhey; H. M., Thompson, R. C., Weil, E. and Marshall, M. J. "An Oil Spill Affecting Coral Reefs and Mangroves on the Caribbean Coast of Panama." Proceedings of the 1987 Oil Spill Conference, American Petroleum Institute, Washington D.C. (1987): 401-406.

<<<Page: 186>>>

Cubit, J. D., Windsor, D. M., Thompson, R. C. and Burgett, J. M. "Water-Level Fluctuations, Emersion Regimes and Variations of Echinoid Populations on a Caribbean Reef Flat." Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science 22(1987): 719-737.
Davidar, P. "Fruit Structure in Two Neotropical Mistletoes and Its Consequences for Seed Dispersal." Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 137-139.
DelValle, D. "Geochemical Analysis of Bottom Sediments from Gatun Lake, Panama: A Background Study." Gerliner Geowiss. Abh. (A) 211(1986): 119-120.
DeSteven, D. "Impacto de Mamiferos en la Regeneracién de una Especie de Arbol con Semillas Grandes en Panama (Afiche)." In Ecologia y
Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol.
35°. Supp. VGl987 ji: 278.
DeVries, P. J. Ecological Aspects of Ant Association and Host Plant Use in a Riodinid Butterfly, (1987). Ph.D. dissertation, University of Texas at Austin.
----. "“Hostplant Records and Natural History Notes on Costa Rican Butterflies (Papilionidae, Pieridae & Nymphalidae)." The Journal of
Research on the Lepidoptera 24(4)(1986): 290-333.
----. The Butterflies of Costa Rica and their Natural History (1987): 327p. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
DeVries, P. J., Harvey, D. and Kitching I. "The Ant Associated Epidermal Organs of the Larva of the Lycaenid Butterfly Curetis regula Evans." Journal of Natural History 20(1986): 621-633.
DeVries, P. J., Schull, J. and Greig, N. "Synchronous Nocturnal Activity and Gregarious Roosting in the Neotropical Skipper Butterfly
Celaenorrhynis fritzgaertneri: (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae)." Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 89(1987): 89-103.
DeVries, P. J. and Singer, M. C. "Butterflies of North America: Natural History and Field Guide, by J. Scott, 1985." (Book Review).
Quarterly Review of Biology 62(1987): 330-331.
Dressler, R. L. "Cladistic Analysis of the Orchidaceae: a Commentary." Lindleyana 2(1)(1987): 66-71.
Eberhard, W. G. "Possible Mutualism Between Females of the Subsocial Membracid Polyglypta dispar (Homoptera)." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 19(1986): 447-453.
----"“Pupation in Micetophilid Flies: A Correction." Psyche 93(1-2) (1986): 117-119.
----. "“"Web-Building Behavior of Ampid, Symphytognathid and Mysmenid Spiders (Araneae)." The Journal of Arachnology 14(3)(1986): 339-356.

<<<Page: 187>>>

Eberhard, W. G. and Bricefio, D. "Behavior and Ecology of Four Species of Modissimus and Blechroscelis (Araneae, Pholcidae)." Revue Arachnologique 6(1)(1985): 29-36.
Fischer, E. A. “Mating Systems of Simultaneously Hermaphroditic Serranid Fishes." In Indo-Pacific Fish Biology: Proceedings of the Second Conference on Indo-Pacific Fishes (1986): 776-784. Edited by T. Uyeno, R. Arai, T. Taniuchi and K. Matsuura. Tokyo: Ichthyological Society of Japan.
Fischer, E. A. and Harper, A. "Local Mate Competition in Finite Groups." Evolution 40(4)(1986): 862-863.
Fischer, E. A. and Petersen, C. W. "The Behaviour of Males and Simultaneous Hermaphrodites in the Lantern Bass." Ethology 73(3)(1986): 235-246.
Fleishman, L. J. "Cryptic Movement in the Vine Snake Oxybelis aeneus". Copeia (1985): 242-245.
----“Motion Detection in the Presence and Absence of Background Motion
in an Anolis Lizard." Journal of Comparative Physiology A 159(1986): 711-720.
Fraga, R. M. "Vocal Mimicry in the Epaulet Oriole." The Condor 89(1987): 133-137.
Franks, N. R. "Reproduction, Foraging Efficiency and Worker Polymorphism in Army Ants." In Experimental Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, In Memoriam Karl von Frisch 1886-1982 (1985): 91-107. Edited by B. Holldobler and M. Lindauer. Sunderland: Sinauer Associates.
Franks, N. R. and Holldobler, B. "Sexual Competition During Colony
Reproduction in Army Ants." Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 30(1987): 229-243.
Freed, L. "Rufous and White Wrens Kill House Wrens Nestlings During a Food Shortage." The Condor 89(1987): 195-197.
Garrity, S. D., Levings, S. C. and Caffey, H. M. “Spatial and Temporal Variation in Shell Crushing by Fishes on Rocky Shores of Pacific
Panama." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 103(1,2,3)(1986): 131-142.
Garwood, N. C. "Effects of Acid and Hot Water Pretreatments and Seed Burial on the Germination of Tropical Moist Forest Seeds." Turrialba 36(4) (1987): 479-484.
Garwood, N. C. and Lighton, J. R. B. "Consumo de Oxigeno en Semillas Tropicales (Afiche)." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologfa de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 220.

<<<Page: 188>>>

Glynn, P. W., Howard, L. S., Corcoran, E. and Freay, A. D. "Preliminary Investigations into the Occurrence and Toxicity of Commercial Herbicide Formulations in Reef Building Corals." In Coral Reef Population Biology (1986): 473-485. Edited by P. L. Jokiel, R. H. Richmond and R. A. Rogers.
Glynn, P. W. and Krupp, D. A. "Feeding Biology of a Hawaiian Sea Star Corallivore, Culcita novaequineae Muller and Troschel." In Coral Reef Population Biology (1986): 330-349. Edited by P. L. Jokiel, R. H. Richmond and R. A. Rogers.
Graham, J. B., Baird, T. A. and Stockmann, W. "The Transition to Air
Breathing in Fishes." Journal of Experimental Biology 129 (1987): 83-106.
Graham, J. B., Gee, J. H., Motta, J. and Rubinoff, I. "Subsurface Buoyancy Regulation by the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus." Physiological Zoology 60(2)(1987): 251-261.
Graham, J. B., Lowell, W. R., Rubinoff, I. and Motta, J. "Surface and Subsurface Swimming of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus." Journal of
Experimental Biology 127(1987): 27-44.
Greig, N. and DeVries, P. "Observations on the Diurnal Gregarious Roosting of Ocalaria sp. (Noctuidae) in Costa Rica." Journal of the
Lepideopterists Society 40(1986): 124-126.
Griffith. P..C.,Cubit,, J. D.5. Adey, W...H...and: Norris:,,.ds.N: Computer-automated Flow Respirometry: Metabolism Measurements on a Caribbean Reef Flat and in a Microcosm." Limnology and Oceanography 32(2)(1987): 442-451.
Hamrick, J. "Algunos Aspectos Importantes en el Estudio de la Genética de Poblaciones de Plantas en Bosques Tropicales." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 355 Supp. 1¢T987)? 213=214.
Hamrick, J. L. and Loveless, M. D. "The Influence of Seed Dispersal Mechanisms on the Genetic Structure of Plant Populations, In
Frugivores and Seed Dispersal (1986): 211-223. Edited by A. Estrada and T. H. Fleming. Dordrecht: Dr. W. Junk.
----"Isozyme Variation in Tropical Trees: Procedures and Preliminary Results." Biotropica 18(3)(1986): 201-207.
Harrison, S. "Treefall Gaps Versus Forest Understory as Environments for a Defoliating Moth on a Tropical Forest Shrub." Oecologia 72(1) (1987): 65-68

<<<Page: 189>>>

Hastings, P. A. and Petersen, C. W. "A Novel Sexual Pattern in Serranid Fishes: Simultaneous Hermaphrodites and Males in Serranus
fasicatus." Environmental Biology of Fishes 15(1986): 59-68.
Hay, M. E. "Functional Geometry of Seaweeds = Ecological Consequences of Thallus Layering and Shape in Contrasting Light Environments." In On
the Economy of Plant Form and Function (1986): 635-666. Edited by T. E. Givnish. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Heckadon Moreno, S. "El Costo Ambiental del Desarrollo en la Cuenca del Canal." In La Cuenca del Canal de Panama (1986): 9-43. Edited by S. Heckadon Moreno. Panama: Impretex.
----Informe del Grupo de Trabajo Sobre La Cuenca del Canal de Panama. (Sumario Ejecutivo) (1986). Panama: Impretex.
----. "Traduccién y Notas, Los Indios Valiente de Bocas del Toro en 1817
segun Testimonio de Roberts." Revista Panamefia de Antropologia 3(1987): 148-175.
-----. (Editor). La Cuenca del Canal de Panama. Actas de los Seminarios Talleres (1986). Panama: Impretex.
Hernandez, A. "Preface." In A Day on Barro Colorado Island (1986): v, by M. Wong and J. Ventocilla. Panama: Published by Impretex for Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
Herre, A. “Optimality, Plasticity and Selective Regime in Fig Wasps Sex Ratios." Nature 329(1987): 627-629.
Herre, E. A., Leigh, E. G. and Fischer, E. A. "Sex Allocation in
Animals." In The Evolution of Sex_and its Consequences (1987). Edited by Steven Stearns. Birkhanser.
Herre, E. A., Windsor, D. M. and Foster, R. "Nesting Associations of Wasps and Ants in Lowland Peruvian Ant-Plants." Psyche 93(1986): 321-330.
Hogan, K. P. "“Aspectos Ecoldédgicos del Crecimiento de Dos Especies de
Palma en la Isla Barro Colorado, Panama (Afiche)." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, supp. 1(1987): 221.
-----. Plant Architecture, Photosynthetic Responses, and Population Biology in the Palms Socratea durissima and Scheelea zonensis on Barro Colorado Island, Panama (1986). Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Plant Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana.

<<<Page: 190>>>

Homi. daaM 6. Leese Diakix, Smith), Nes Ge) Nash; Bru dis,,, nellows, Lb. .Bevand Bell, E. A. "The Urania-Omphalea Interaction: Host Plant Secondary Chemistry." In Insects Plants (1987): 394. Edited by V. Labeyrie, G. Fabres and D. Lachaise. The Netherlands: Dr. W. Junk Publishers.
Howe, H. F. and Wright, S. J. "Spatial Pattern and Mortality in the
Desert Mallow (Sphaeralcea ambigua). National Geographic Research 2(4)(1986): 491-499.
Hubbell, S. P. and Foster, R. B. "Biology, Chance, and History and the Structure of Tropical Rain Forest Tree Communities" In Community Ecology (1986): 314-329. Edited by J. Diamond and T. J. Case. New York: Harper and Row Publishers.
----. "Canopy Gaps and the Dynamics of a Neotropical Forest." In Plant Ecology (1986): 77-96. Edited by M. J. Crawley. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
----. "La Estructura Espacial en Gran Escala de un Bosque Neotropical." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 7-22.
----"The Spatial Context of Regeneration in a Neotropical Forest."
In Colonization, Succession and Stability (1987): 395-412. Edited by A. J. Gray, M. J. Crawley and P. J. Edwards. Oxford: Blackwell
Scientific. Hubbell, S. P. and Johnson, L. K. "Environmental Variance in Lifetime Mating Success, Mate Choice, and Sexual Selection." The American
Naturalist 130(1)(1987): 91-112.
Jackson, J. B. C. "Modes of Dispersal of Clonal Benthic Invertebrates: Consequences for Species” Distributions and Genetic Structure of Local Populations." Bulletin of Marine Science 39(2)(1986): 588-606.
Jackson, J. B. C. and Kaufmann, K. W. "Diadema antillarum Was Not a Keystone Predator in Cryptic Reef Environments." Science 235(1987): 687-689.
Jackson, J. B. C. and McKinney, F. K. "Depth Distribution of Living Marine Invertebrate Morphologies: Limited Carry-Over to the Fossil Record in one Phylum (Bryozoa)." Abstracts with Programs TC2 C19 87 2201.2
Johnson, L. K. "Bats Eaten by Nambiquara Indians in Western Brazil." Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 188-189
----"Communication of Food Source Location by the Stingless Bee,
Trigona fulviventris." In Chemistry and Biology of Social Insects (1987). Edited by J. Eder and H. Rembold. Munich: Verlag J.
Peperny.

<<<Page: 191>>>

-----. "The Pyrrhic Victory of Nest-Robbing Bees: Did They Use the Wrong Pheromone?" Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 188-189.
Johnson, L. K. and Howard, J. J. “Olfactory Disc Number in Bees of Different Sizes and Ways of Life (Apidea: Meliponinae). " Journal of
the Kansas Entomological Society 60(3)(1987): 380-388.
Johnson, L. K., Hubbell, S. P. and Feener, D. H. "Defense of Food Supply by Eusocial Colonies." American Zoologist 27(1987): 347-358.
Karr, J. R. “Australian Bird Population" (Book Review) Birds of Eucalypt Forests and Woodlands, edited by A. Keast, H. F. Recher, H. Ford, and D. Saunders. Science 234(4776)(1986): 620.
-----. "Biological Monitoring and Environmental Assessment: A Conceptual Framework." Environmental Management 11(2)(1987): 249-256.
Karn Ji Ris, Yant.,: PP. Rag ‘Bausch ,. KD. and: Schlosser, Lv dio tSpatzal and Temporal Variability of the Index of Biotic Integrity in Three
Midwestern Streams." Transactions of the American Fisheries Society VIO CIOS VHT 1.
Kilar, J. A. and Lou, R. M. "The Subtleties of Camouflage and Dietary Preference of the Decorator Crab, Microphrys bicornutus Latreille
(Decapoda: Brachyura)". Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 101(1,2)(1986): 143-160.
Kilar, J. A., and McLachlan, J. "Branching Morphology as an Indicator of Environmental Disturbance: Testing the Vegetative Fragmentation of Acanthophora spicifera and the Turf Morphology of Laurencia
papillosa". Aquatic Botany 24(1986): 115-130.
Kimsey, L. S. and Dressler, R. L. “"Synonymic Species List of Euglossini." Pan-Pacific Entomologist 62(3)(1986): 229-236.
Knowlton, N. and Keller, B. D. “Larvae which Fall Far Short of their Potential: Highly Localized Recruitment in an Alpheid Shrimp with Extended Larval Development." Bulletin of Marine Science 39(2)(1986): 213-223.
Lee, D. W. "The Spectral Distribution of Radiation in Two Neotropical Rainforests." Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 161-166.
Lee, D. W., Brammier, S. and Smith, A. P. "The Selective Advantages of Anthocyanins in Developing Leaves of Mango and Cacao." Biotropica 19:
4o-49,.
Lee, D. W. and Graham, R. "Leaf Optical Properties of Rainforest Sun and Extreme Shade Plants." American Journal of Botany 73(8)(1987): 1100-1108.

<<<Page: 192>>>

Leigh Jr., E. G. "Ronald Fisher and the Development of Evolutionary
Theory. I. The Role of Selection." Oxford Surveys in Evolutionary Biology 3(1986): 187-223.
----. “Unfinished Synthesis, by Niles Eldredge, 1985." (Book Review). The Condor 89(2)(1987): 447-448.
Leigh, dri; E.G, Patines R. JT, Quinn, J. Fe;and: Suchanek;..T. H. . "Wave Energy and Intertidal Productivity." Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 84(6)(1987): 1314-1318.
Lessios, H.A. "Fate of Diadema antillarum Populations in the Four Years Following Mass Mortality." Abstract, 6th. International Echinoderm Conference (1987).
Linares, 0. F. "Deferring to Trade in Slaves: The Jola of Casamance,
Senegal in Historical Perspective." History in Africa: a Journal of Method 14(1987): 113-139.
----. "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico con los Kuna." Revista Panamefia_de Antropologia 3(1987): 10-39.
----. "Islamic “Conversion” Reconsidered." Cambridge Anthropology 11(1) (1987): 4-19.
----. "Organizacién Politica y Demarcacién de la Comarca Guaymi." Revista Panamefia de Antropologia 3(1987): 178-187.
----. "Prdlogo." Revista Panamefia_ de Antropologia 3(1987): 7-8.
Lobo, W. V. "Investigaciones Preliminares en dos Abrigos Rocosos en la Regidén Central de Panama." Vinculos 11(1-2)(1985): 17-29.
Loveless, M. D. and Hamrick, J. L. "Distribucién de la Variacidn en Especies de Arboles Tropicales." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de
Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologfa Tropical Vol. 35, Supp.
1(1987): 165-176.
Lowell, R. B. "Safety Factors of Tropical Versus Temperate Limpet Shells: Multiple Selection Pressures on a Single Structure." Evolution 41(3)(1987): 638-650.
McKinney, F. K. and Jackson, J. B. C. "Paleozoic vs Post-Paleozoic Bryozoan Faunas: Reversal of Relative Dominance of Growth Forms." Abstracts with Programs 1986. 99th Annual Meeting (1986): 690. San Antonio, Texas: Geological Society of America.
Menge, B. A., Lubchenco, J., Gaines, S. D. and Ashkenas, L. R. "A Test of the Menge-Sutherland Model of Community Organization in a Tropical Rocky Intertidal Food Web." Oecologia 71(1)(1986): 75-89.

<<<Page: 193>>>

Montalvo, A. M. and Ackerman, J. D. “Relative Pollinator Effectiveness and Evolution of Floral Traits in Spathiphyllum friedrichsthalii (Araceae)." American Journal of Botany 73(12)(1986): 1665-1676.
Mora M., G. Male Egg-Guarding Behavior in the Neotropical Harvestman,
Zygopachylus albomarginis (Opiliones: Gonyleptidae) (1987). M. Se. Thesis, Department of Zoology, University of Florida, Gainesville.
Moynihan, M. "Social Relations Among Halcyon Kingfishers in Senegal." Revue D“Ecologie (Terre et Vie) 42(2)(1987): 145-166.
Mulkey, S. S. "Photosynthetic Acclimation and Water-Use Efficiency of Three Species of Understory Herbaceous Bamboo (Gramineae) in Panama." Oecologia 70(4)(1986): 514-519.
Parker, D. A. and Shulman, M. J. “Avoiding Predation: Alarm Responses of Caribbean Sea Urchin to Simulated Predation on Conspecifics and Heterospecific Sea Urchin." Marine Biology 93(4)(1986): 201-208.
Philippi, T. and Eberhard, W. G. "Foraging Behavior of Stictia signata
(Hymenoptera: Sphecidae)." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 59(4)(1986): 604-608.
Rehfeldt, G. "Verteilung und Verhalten von Segellibellen (Odonata: Libellulidae) wahrend der Trockenzeit in Regenwaldern Panamas." Amazonia 10(1)(1986): 57-62.
Robertson, D. R. “Responses of Two Coral Reef Toadfishes (Batrachoididae) to the Demise of Their Primary Prey, the Sea Urchin Diadema antillarum." Copeia (1987): 637-642.
Robinson, M. H. "The Fate of the Tropics and the Fate of Man." Zoogoer 15(3)(1986): 4-10.
Roubik, D. W. "Long-Term Consequences of the African Honeybee Invasion: Implications for the United States." Proceedings of the Africanized
Honey Bee Symposium, February 11-12, 1986 (1987): 46-54. Park Ridge, Illinois, American Farm Bureau Research Foundation.
----. "Notes on the Biology of Anthroporid Bee Tetrapedia and the Mite Chaetodactylus panamensis Baker, Roubik and Delfinado-Baker (Acari:
Chaetodactylidae)." International Journal of Acarology 13(1)(1987): 75-76.
Roubik, D. W., Smith, B. H. and Carlson, R. G. "Formic Acid in Caustic Cephalic Secretions of Stingless Bee, Oxytrigona (Hymenoptera: Apidae)." Journal of Chemical Ecology 13(5)(1987): 1079-1086.

<<<Page: 194>>>

Rundel, P. W. and Becker, P. F. "Cambios Estacionales en las Relaciones de Arboles del Dosel en Bosque muy Humedo Tropical: Aspectos Tedricos y Practicos." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Nadjera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 71-84.
Rubinoff, I. "Foreword." In A Day on Barro Colorado Island (1986): lii-iv, by M. Wong and J. Ventocilla. Panama: Published by Impretex for Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
Schupp, E. W. “Azteca Protection of Cecropia: Ant Occupation Benefits in Juvenile Trees." Oecologia 70(3)(1986): 379-385.
----. Studies on Seed Predation of Faramea occidentalis, an Abundant Tropical Tree (1987). Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Biology, University of Iowa, Iowa City.
Schwartz, J. J. "Male Calling Behavior and Female Choice in the Neotropical Treefrog Hyla microcephala." Ethology 73(2)(1986): 116-127.
----"The Function of Call Alternation in Anuran Amphibians: A Test of
Three Hypothesis." Evolution 41(3)(1987): 461-471.
-----. "The Importance of Spectral and Temporal Properties in Species and Call Recognition in a Neotropical Treefrog with a Complex Vocal Repertoire." Animal Behaviour 35(1987): 340-347.
Shelly, T. E. "Natural History of Three Riparian Species of Robber Flies
in a Panamanian Forest (Diptera: Asilidae). Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 180-184
Smith, A. P. "Ecology of a Leaf Color Polymorphism in a Tropical Forest
Species: Habitat Segregation and Herbivory." Oecologia 69(1986): 283-287.
-----. "Respuestas de Hierbas del Sotobosque Tropical a Claros Ocasionados por la Cafida de Arboles." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 111-118.
Smith, N. G. "Dynamics of the Transisthmian Migration of Raptors between Central and South America." ICPB Technical Publication No. 5(1985): 271-290.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. Informe de la Caracterizacién Ecolégica del Area del Proyecto "PEMASKY", a la Asociacién de
Empleados Kunas (AEK) Administradores del Proyecto (1985). Panama: STRI.

<<<Page: 195>>>

Smythe, N. "Competition and Resource Partitioning in the Guild of Neotropical Terrestrial Frugivorous Mammals." Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 17(1986): 169-188.
----"The Importance of Mammals in Neotropical Forest Management." In
Management of the Forests of Tropical America: Prospects and Technology (1987). USAID/USFS.
----"The Paca (Cuniculus paca) as a Domestic Source of Protein for the
Neotropical, Humid Lowlands." Applied Animal Behaviour Science 17(1987): 155-170.
Snow, A. A. and Roubik, D. W. "Pollen Deposition and Removal by Bees Visiting Two Tree Species in Panama." Biotropica 19(1)(1987): 57-63.
Sork, V. L. "Demografia de Gustavia superba, un Arbol con Semillas Grandes Diseminadas por Mamiferos (Afiche)." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologfa Tropical Vol. 35,4. SUpp. 141987) :232.
-----. "Effects of Predation and Light on Seedling Establishment in Gustavia superba." Ecology 68(5)(1987): 1341-1350.
Steger, R. "Effects of Refuges and Recruitment on Gomodactylid Stomatopods, a Guild of Mobile Prey." Ecology 68(5)(1987): 1520-1533.
Tanaka, S., Denlinger, D. L. and Wolda, H. "Daylengh and Humidity as Environmental Cues for Diapause Termination in a Tropical Beetle." Physiological Entomology 12(1987): 213-224.
Tanaka, S., Wolda, H. and Denlinger, D. L. "Abstinence from Mating by Sexually Mature Males of the Fungus Beetle Stenotarsus rotundus, During a Tropical Dry Season." Biotropica 19(3)(1987): 252-254.
Thorne, B. L. “Termite Polygyny: The Ecological Dynamics of Queen
Mutualism." In Experimental Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, In Memoriam Karl von Frisch 1886-1982 (1986): 325-341. Edited by B. Holldobler and M. Lindauer. Sunderland: Sinauer Associates.
Tristan A., Vianeth M. and Alvarez M., Rubén. "Efecto de la Temperatura de Incubacién en el Desarrollo de Recién Nacidos de Iguana iguana."
Thesis; Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (1987). Panama: Universidad de Panama.
Troyer, K. "Posthatching Yolk in a Lizard: Internalization and Contribution to Growth." Journal of Herpetology 21(2)(1987): 102-106.
----. "Small Differences in Daytime Body Temperature Affect Digestion of
Natural Food in a Herbivorous Lizard (Iguana iguana) ." Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology 87A(3)(1987): 623-626.

<<<Page: 196>>>

Ventocilla, J. "El Instituto de Investigaciones Tropicales Smithsonian. Comprender y Conservar el Ecosistema Tropical: Un Reto para la Ciencia." La Prensa, junio 4(1987):
Ventocilla, J. and Samudio, R. "La Situacién de la Fauna". In La Cuenca del Canal de Panama (1986): 181-192. Edited by S. Heckadon Moreno. Panama: Impretex.
Wells, K. D. and Bard, K. M. "Vocal Communication in a Neotropical Treefrog, Hyla ebraccata: Responses of Females to Advertisement and Aggressive Calls." Behaviour 101(1/3)(1987): 200-210.
Werner, D. I. "Iguana Management: Conservation of Green Iguanas Through Rational Use?" Notes from Noah: The Northern Ohio Association of
Herpetologists 14(1)(1986): 11-13.
----"Iguana Management Success in Panama Shared With Other Nations."
Bostid Developments 7(2)(1987): 22-23.
"Manejo de la Iguana Verde en el Bosque Tropical." Interciencia 12(5)1987): 226-229.
Werner, D. I., Baker, E. M., Gonzalez, E. del C. and Sosa, I. R. "Kinship Recognition and Grouping in Hatchling Green Iguanas." Behavioral
Ecology and Sociobiology 21(2)(1987): 83-89.
West-Eberhard, M. J. "Evolution Through Group Selection, by V. C. Wynne-Edwards." (Book Review). Journal of Genetics 65(3)(1986): 213-217.
----. "Flexible Strategy and Social Evolution." In Animal Societies: Theories and Facts (1987): 33-51. Edited by Y. Ito, J. L. Brown and J. Kikkawa. Tokyo: Japan Scientific Societies Press.
----"Phenotypic Plasticity and "Genetic" Theories of Insect
Sociality." In Evolution of Social Behavior and Integrative Levels (1987): 123-133. Edited by E. Tobach and G. Greenberg. Hillsdale,
N.J.: Erlbaum Press.
Wolda, H. "Altitude, Habitat and Tropical Insect Diversity." Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 30(4)(1987): 313-323.
Wolda, H. and Sabrosky, C. W. "Insect Visitors to Two Forms of Aristlochia pilosa in Las Cumbres, Panama." Biotropica 18(4)(1986): 295-299.
Wong, M. and Ventocilla, J. A Day on Barro Colorado Island (1986).
Panama: Published by Impretex for Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. 103p.

<<<Page: 197>>>

Wujek, D. E. and Cocuzza, J. M. "Morphology of Hair of Twoand ThreeToed Sloths (Edentata: Bradypodidae." Rev. Biol. Trop. 34(2)(1986): 243-246.
Zeh, D. W. "Life History Consequences of Sexual Dimorphism in a Chernetid Pseudoscorpion." Ecology 68(5)(1987): 1495-1501.
Driskell, David C. (Inaugural catalog) Contemporary Visual Expressions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987. 80 pages, 21 color and 13 black and white illustrations.
Archives of American Art
Brown, Robert F. "The Bauhaus Era in Germany and America." Exhibition checklist and essay, November 1986."Regional Office Report--New England." Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4); 26(1-3). Karlstrom, Paul T. "Regional Office Report--West Coast."" Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4); 26(1-3).Art in the San Francisco Bay Area, 1945-1980, by Thomas
Albright. Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4). Kendall, Sue Ann. "C. J. Bulliet: Chicago's Lonely Champion of Modernism." Archives of American Art Journal, 26(2&3)."Regional Office Report--Midwest." Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4); 26(1-3). Kirwin, Liza. "Regional Office Report--Southeast." Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4); 26(1-3). McCoy, Garnett. "Editorial Note." Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4); 26(1-3). . "Letters from Spain, 1936-1939." Archives of American Art Journal, 26(2&3). McNaught, William. "Regional Office Report--New York." Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4); 26(1-3). Paul, Stella. "Regional Office Report--Southern California." Archives of American Art Journal, 25(4); 26(1-3).

<<<Page: 198>>>

Beach, Milo C. With Michael Brand and Glenn Lowry. "The Study of FatehpurSikri," pp. 13-24, In Fatehpur-Sikri, Bombay : Marg Publications 1987. . Early Mughal Painting. Cambridge : Harvard University Press, 1987.
. Asian Art in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery: The Inaugural Gift. Washington, D. C. : Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.
Chase, W. Thomas III. With I. Lynus Barnes and Emile C. Deal, "Appendix II Lead Isotope Ratios," pp. 558-560. In Shang Ritual Bronzes in the Arthur M. Sackler Collections by Robert W. Bagley, Washington, D. C. The Arthur M. Sackler Foundation and the Arthur M, Sackler Museum, Harvard University, 1987,
FitzHugh, Elisabeth West. "Red Lead and Minium," pp. 109-139, In Artists’
Pigments: A Handbook of Their History and Characteristics Volume Le Washington, D. C. ' National Gallery of Art, 1986.
Fu, Shen C. Y. Asian Art in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery: The Inaugural Gift, Washington, D. C. : Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, 1987. "Huang Binhong's Shanghai Period Landscape Paintings and His Late Floral Works in the Arthur M. Sackler Collection," Orientation, XVIII.9 (Sept. 1987), 66-78.
. "Chu Ta's (1676-1705) Influence on Ch'i Pai-shih (1864-1957) ," Hsiung Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, no. 190 (Dec. 1986), 38-47; no. 191 (Jan. 1987), 96-101; no. 192 (Feb. 1987), 116-121.
"The YUan Calligraphy Master Teng Wen-yllan (1258-1328) and His Works," National Palace Museum Research Quarterly, III.3 (Spring 1986), 1-14. . “The Sung Epigraphist Couple: Chao Ming-ch'en (1081-1129) and Li
Ch'ing-chao (1084-c. 1140)," National Palace Museum Monthly of Chinese Art, III.8 (Nov. 1985), 82-89.
"Teng Wen-yllan (1258-1328) and Mo Shih-lung (ca. 1538-1587) : A Study of Problematic Chinese Calligraphy Work in Japan," Commemorative Essays in Honor of Professor Nakata Yujiro (Tokyo, 1985), 763-791
Koob, Stephen P. "Detachable Plaster Restorations for Archaeological Ceramics," Recent Advances in the Conservation and Analysis of Artifacts, 1987 Jubilee Conservation Conference, Institute of Archaeology, London, pp. 63-65.
Lawton, Thomas. "An Imperial Legacy Revisited: Bronze Vessels from the Qing Palace Collection" Asian Art, vol. 1, no. 1 (Fall/Winter 1987-1988), pp. 5119).
. Asian Art in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery: The Inaugural Gift, Washington, D. C. : Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, 1987.
2 Book review: Xu Bangda, Gu shu hua wei e kao ban (Examination and Identification of the Forging of Ancient Calligraphy and Painting). 4 volumes: Part I, Text 233 pp.; 345 black-and-white plates; Part II, Text 225 pp., 472
black-and-white plates. Suzhou : Xinhua shuju, 1984. Ars Orientalis, vol. XVII (1987).
Lowry, Glenn. Asian Art in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery: The Inaugural Gift, Washington, D. C. : Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, 1987. . "Urban Structures and Functions," pp. 25-48. In Fatehpur-Sikri, Bombay : Marg Publications 1987. "Persian Paintings from the Vever Collection," Orientation, XVIII (October 1987) (Forthcoming) ii ho eh eee
. Fatehpur-Sikri: Selected Papers from the International Symposium on Fatehpur-Sikri held on October 17-19, 1985, at Harvard University. Ed. with Michael Brand. Bombay : Marg Publications 1987.

<<<Page: 199>>>

Snyder, J. G. With R. L. Virta and J. M. Segreti, 1987. "Eyaluation of the Phase Contrast Microscopy Method for the Detection of Fibrous and Other Elongated Mineral Particulates by Comparison with a STEM Technique," American Industrial Hygiene Association Journal 48 (5), pp. 471-477.
Winter, John. With Tamar Ellentuck, "The Photographic Enhancement of Seal Impressions," Archives of Asian Art, 40 (1987), 74-77.
2 "Organic Colors in East Asian Paintings: The Identification of Gamboge,"' ICOM Committee for Conservation, 8th Triennial Meeting, 6-11 September
1987, Sydney, Australia: Preprints, Getty Conservation Institute 1987, pp. 111-117.
Yonemura, Ann. '"Japanese Calligraphy" (educational leaflet). Freer Gallery of Art,* 1986, » Asian Art in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery: The Inaugural Gift, Washington, D. C. : Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, 1987. . "The Art of Chinese Lacquer," Asian Art vol. 1, nos. 1-2 (Fall-Winter, 1987-88), 31-49. . "Japanese Ceramics," Encyclopedia of Asian History. New York :
Charles Scribner's Sons, 1987.
Publicaticns
Ballard, M.W. "The Remcval of Crcsslinked Synthetic Latex from Carsets: Preliminary Results," Preorints, ICCM Committse fer Conservyaticn, 1987: 331-328.
Ballard, M.W. ‘Textile Conservaticn Laboratory, Conservaticn Analytical Laboratsry,' Textile Conservation Newslettar (Sering, 1987): 22-23.
Ballard, M. and Baer, N.S. "Conservation Netes: Is Pmicaticn Pessible?"
The Intermaticnal Jcurmal of Museum Marnacement and Curatorsnipd (1987) 6: 382-86.
Bishco, R.L., “Accendix 3: Preliminary comecsiticnal characterization of pottery and jace samples," in Archaeolecical Investicaticns in the Ner=nem Maya Zichlands. Guatemala, University Museum Menccrach 59, edited by Rcrert J. Sharer and David W. Sedat, University Museu, Phildceiznia (1987): 480-487.
Bishcp, R.L., "Ceramic paste compecsiticnal chemistry: init ckservaticns of variaticn in the Tucson Basin," in Arshaeclecy of the
San Savier Bridce Sita: AZ BBi3-14, Tucsen Basin, Scutherm Ar=zena, edited Sy Jchn Raveslcot. Arizcna State Mrsemm Series 171 (1987): 370-390.
Bishep, R.L., M.P?. Beaudry, R.M. Leventhal, ard R.J. Sharer, "“Comecsiticnal analysis of Ccracor and related pettery in the Scutheast Maya area,'! in The Scutheast Maya Periphery, edited by Patzicia A. Urban and Ecward M. Schcerimnan, University of Texas Press, Austin (1986): 143-167.
Cneng, Y.T. and M. Ganccezy, "Arplication of Neutron Radiccraphy and Activaticn Analysis to the Stucy of Ancient Brenzes," Preprints of the 1987 Vanccuver Conference of the American Institut= fer Conservation: 233.

<<<Page: 200>>>

Cheng, Y.T. and J.S. Olin, "Neutcen Activaticn Autoradiccrarhy Study of Paintings," NBS Technical Nete 1231, Naticnal Bureau of Standards (1986): 59-s6.
Ehrenreich, Rebert M. and Denna K. Strahan. ''The effects of boiling cn the quenched stsel structure of martensite," in Recent Acvances in the Conservation and Analysis of Artifacts, ed. James Black, (1987): 125-129. Summer Schcol Press of the University of Lenccn, Lencon.
Exharet, Cavid and Natalie Firnhaber, "Analysis and Identificaticn of Oils in Hawaiian Oiled Tara'', Recent Advances in the Conservaticn and Analysis of Artifacts, Precrints of the University of Lencen Institute or Archaeoiccy Jubilee Conservaticn Conference, Lendéen (July 1987): 223-227.
Erharct, David, David ven Enct and Waltar Hccweed, "The Evaluaticn of Accelerated Aging Cenditicns Threuch the Analysis of Extracts of Artificially Aged Paver, Preprints of the 1987 Vanccuver Confsrence of the American Institute for Conservaticn: 43-55.
Garbin, Mary. "Nerthampton Leather Seminar," Leather Conservaticn News 3:1 (Fall 1986): i8.
Gianro;,. R.,: D.. ven 2nct, ‘Ds Eoharct, K.M.. Kechiamen! and W. Hecweed,. Th Iéentiticatien of Insular Scutheast Asian Resins and Cther Plant Exmcates for Archaeciccical and Ethnolegical Arplicaticn, Recent Acvances in the Conservyaticn and Aralysis ef Artifacts: Preprints of the University of Lencen Institute of Archaeclecy Jubilee Ccnservaticn Ceontarence, Lercecn (Guly 1987): 229-238.
Geceway, Martha, "Theschorus in anticue iren music wire,” Science 226 (2987): 927-332; summary in Scientific American 287 (Aucust 1987): 20-22; recort in The Daily Telecrarh (Lenden) 2 Jume 1987.
Gcccway, Marcha, "Fiber identéficaticn in practice," JAIC 26 (1987):
hare ee a untae scotia ened:
—— Marina, "News of archaecmetallurcy," SAS Newslettar 10 (1) 1987:
a ee Marina, 'News cof archaecmetallurcy,” SAS Newslettar 10 (2) 1987:
eet Marcna, "News of Archaecmetallurcy,"” SAS Newsletter 10 (3) 1987: 14.
Grisscm, Carol A. "Green Earth," in Artists’ Picments: A Handbeck of Their History and Charactarstics, ed. Rebert L. Feller, (1986): 142-167. Naticnal Gallery of Art, Washincton, D.C.
Holmes, L.L., C.T. Little, and Edward V. Sayre, "Hlemental Cnaractarizaticn of Medieval Limestone Sculpture from Parisian and Burcundian Scurces,'" Jcurnal cf Field Archaeciccy, 13 (1986): 420-438. (pacinatien corrected).
Kingery, W.D. and P.3. Vandiver, "Scng Dynasty Jun Ware Glazes,” in Scient:=ic and Techrnolecical Insights en Ancient Chinese Pottary and Porcelain, (1986) 182-186, Ed., Shamchai Institute of Ceramics. Proceedings of the Internaticnal Conference on Ancient Chinese Pottary
and Porcelain, Shanchai, November 1-5, 1982.
Lance, ¥.#. and R.L. Biskco, "Settilement pattern and jade research on the Santa Elena Peninsula,’' in Jcurnmal of the Steward Anthrcvolecical Seciety, edited by L. Ner= and 7.W. Lance, University of Illinois, Urtana (1987): 221-225.liceza, M., D.W. ven Enct, W.D. Erhardt, J.S.
Olin ard Y-T Cherg, "The Effects of Gamma Radiaticn on the Chemical Stability of Paint Films, Preprints of the 1987 Vanccuver conference
of the American Institut2 for Conservation: 228.

<<<Page: 201>>>

Licseza, M., D.W. ven Enct, W.D. Exhardt, J.S. Olin and Y-T Cheng, "The Sects of Gamma Raciaticn on the Chemical Stability of Paint Films", Precrints of the 1987 Vanccuver conference of the American Institute fcr Conservaticn: 238.
McMillan, E., "Recor: of ICCM Conservaticn Committee Informaticn Desk, ICCM-’36 Conference, Buencs Aires", ICCM—cC News, Winter/Spring 1987.
Olin, Jacqueline S. and Blackman, M. James, Proceedincs of the 24th International Archaecnet=y Symecsimm, Smithscnian Instituticn Press, Washington, D.C., 1986.
Pacfield, Tim, "Climat2 Control in Archives and Litraries, Dreceedizncs of the Conference on the Preservyaticn ef Library Materials, Vienna, April 1986.
Pacfieid, Tim, "A Himalayan lecend describes an early example of science arplied to the packing and transcort of a work of art," ICM Bulietin (Australia), Secteamber 1987.
Padfieid, Tim, "Climat2 Contcol in Mvseums Control of Smidity'’, vicectare lecture available tarcuch CAL.
Pacfieid, Tim ard David Zrharct, "The Sccntarecus Transfer to Glass of an Imace of Jcan of Arc', Drevrints of the Svcrevy Conference of the Intermaticnal Commissicn cf Museums Committee fer Conservaticn,
1987): 909-9313.
Pestlethwaita, Alan W., '"Svmicaticn, Chcice of Fumicant and [esicn of Facility," Proceedincs of the Sichth triennial Meeting of the ICM Committ2e for Conmservaticn, Sycney, Australia (Sectsemrer 1987): 1239-1196.
Strahan, Demra K. ‘Treatment of a silver draccn fer the remcval of silver evanice and chalccnat=cnite." Jcurmal of the American Institute for Conservation, 25: 2 (fall 1986): 73-31.
Vandiver, Pamela B. and W. Lavid Xincery, "Accendix A: Calaccns: The Techrolecical Basis of Their Visual Arrearances," in Ice and Green Cleuds: Traditions of Chinese Celaccn, Indianarelis Museum of Art in cccceraticn with Indiana University Press (1986): 217-224.
Vanciver, P.3. and W.D. Kincery, "Egyptian Faience, The First Hich-Tech Ceramic," in Caramics and Civilization Yol IZI: Hich-Technolecy Ceramics, Past, Present and Future, W.D. Kincery Ed., American Caramics Scciety, Columbus CH, (1987):19-34.
Vandiver, P.3. and Peter Laccvara, "An Cutline for the Develcument of Ecyptian Ceramics," Bulletin of the Ecvetoleaical Seminar, 7 (1985-36): 53-85.
Varciver, P.3. and W.D. Kingery, "Scng Dynasty Calacecn Glazes f=orom Layao near Lemoquan," in Seientific and Techmolecical Insichts cn Ancient Chinese Pottery and Porcelain (1986) 187-191, Ed., Shanchai Institute ef Ceramics. Precsedincgs of the Intermaticnal Conference on Ancient Chinese Pcttary and Porcelain, Shanghai, November 1-5, 1982.
Vandiver, P.3. and W.D. Kingery, "The Technclecy of Calaccn Giazes," Ceramics Menthly (Sestember 1987): 55-58.
van der Reycen, Dianne, T.J. Vitale, et al., co-editors: Parer Conservation Cataleq, Fourth Zditicn, Book and Parer Greup of the Amer—can Inmstitut2 for Conservaticn, May 1987.
Vitale, T.J. and Dianne van der Reyden, "Filling of Losses," Chapter 26, 1-17, Paver Conservatien Cataicg, Beck and Parer Group of the American
tl2tute for Conservyaticn, May 1987.

<<<Page: 202>>>

ven Enct, David and David Erhardt, "Chemical Studies cn the Proteins of Archeolegical Ecnes and Teeth", Preorints of the 1987 Denver meeting of the American Chemical Scciety, Hist:9020.
Williams, Marc A., "Surmiture Conservation Ethics," Anticve Review 12:9 (Septamcer 1986): 30-31.
Williams, Marc A., "Weed Technolcgy Part I", Anticue Review 12:10 (Cctcber 1986): 29-31.
Williams, Marc A., "Weed Techrolcsy Part I", Anticve Review 12:11 (Nevember 1986): 43-45.
Williams, Marc A., 'Technolesy of Adhesives and Finishes", Anticue Review 12:12 (Cecemrber 1986): 22-23.
Williams, Mats A., "Surmiture Constructicn Techniques’, Anticue Review 13:1 (January, 1987): .27-31.
Williams, Mars A., "furmiture Detericraticn: Temperature ard Relative Bumidity', Anticue Review, 13:2, (Feoruary, 1987): 17-20.
Williams, Marc A., "Surmiture Deterioratien: Light, Envircmmental Contaminants and Bicoredaticn", Anticve Review 13:3 (May, 1987): S2-34.
Williams, Marc A., "Furmiture Deterioraticn: Man", Anticve Review 13:3 (Sume 1987): 47-49.
Williams, Marc A., "Summary of FPurmituirs Preservaticn ard Care", Anticre Review 12 (Atcust 1987): 32-35.
Presented Papers, Courses, Lectures, Symecsia
Baker, Mary T. ard Julian F. Jchnsen, "Automated Analysis of Cocolymer Comcsi les with Rescect to Molecular Weicht Distributicn Using Minimal Calizraticrs," 45th Anmmual Technical Meeting of the Scciety of Plastics ecard Les Arcelss, 1987.
Baker, Mary T. ard Julian ¥. Jcbmsen, "SELC Cali>raticns for Analysis of Additives in Crcss-Linked Cable i ei American Chemical Sceciety Meeting, Divisicn of Polymeric Matarials: Science and Encineericc, Cerver, 1987.
Ballard, M.W., R. Keestier, C. Blair, and N. Indictsr, "Stucy of Histcric Silx Banners Using Scamning Hlectrcn Micrscscery Enersy Discersive Z-Ray Scectrometry," ACS Zichth Symecsium en Archeclecy and Chemistc7, 193rq American Chemical Scciety General Meeting, April 5-10, 1987.
Cheng, Y.T. and M. Garecezy, "Arolicaticn of Neutcen Radicgraphy and Acci-vaticn Analysis to the Stucy of Ancient Bronzes," Pestar, American Institute for Conservaticn Annual Meeting, Vanccuver BC, May 20-24, 1987.
Cunnincham, Roland H. Lecture given in CAL Purniture Conservaticn ccurse, "Ultraviolet and Infrared Phetcorarhy and Examinaticn of Painted Cbjects," March 1986.
Erhardt, David, Instouctor for the shert ccurse "The Musemm Envircmment", Given at the Conservaticn Analytical Laboratory, Smithscnian Instituticn, June 22-26, 1987. Lecture tepics included the effect of emvircrmental ccnditions cn decracaticn precesses, and scurces, ertlects and control of polluticn in the msetn.
Erharct, Lavid, Instructor for the short ccurse "Sxeaminaticn, Cocmmentaticn and Analysis of Furniture! given at the Conservaticn Analytical Lakcratory, Smithscnian Instituticn, March 2-14, 1987. Lecuired and coneucted demcnstzaticns en the chemistry, analysis, and identification of historic weed finishes.

<<<Page: 203>>>

Erharct, David, "The Evaluaticn of Artificial Acing Conditicns Threuch the Analysis of Extracts of Artificially Aced Parer', lecture presented at the University of Lencecn Institute of Archaeolegy Jubilee Conservation Conference, Lenccn, July 1987.
Gcccway, Marcha, "Ninetsenth-century metals technolecgy," Cctcbker 20, 1986, Naticnal Park Service/Naticnal Asscciaticn of Corzcsicn Engineers conference on the Statue of Liberty, New York City.
Geceway, Martha, "Unusual structures in tin bronzes," December 29, 1986, Archaeolcgical Institute of America, San Antcnio.
Geceway, Martha, "Ccoulamb’s data cn harssicherd wire,” Arril 10, 1987, History Decariment Seminar, Wesleyan University, Middletcwn cr.
Geceéway, Martha, "Stsel and ircn," April 26, 1987, M.I.T., Cambridcse MA.
Geceway, Marcha, "Metallurgy in the museum,"' May 18, 1987, ASM Internaticnal, Baltimore MD.
Gceceway, Martha, '"The read to Science," May 19, 1987, Naticnal Museum of American History Seminar, Washingtsn D.C.
Geceway, Martha, "Intrceucticn to metallurcy,”" June 20, 1987, Naticnal Par Service, Washinctcn D.C.
Grisscem, Carol A. "ICCMCS Fetrocrarny Greup Meeting in Pavia ard the Ic Meeting in Belccna, Italy." Washinctscn Conservaticn Guild, Wasniscton, D.C., Jamuery 3, 1987.
Indictsr, N. and M.W. Ballard, "The Use of Metal in Historic Textiles," 124h Gereral Assembly, Centre intarmaticral d/etzce ces taxtiles
lens, Lycn, France, Sectember 29-Cctcker 1, 1987.
Liceza, M., D.W. ven Exct, W.D. Exharct, J.S. Clin and Y.™. Chenc, "The E<act of Gamma Raciaticn cn the Chemical Stability of Paint Media," Pester, American Institute for Conservation Anmual Meeting, Vanccuver, BC, May 20-24, 1987.
McMilian, E., "Preventive Conservaticn,", lecture for Office of Museum Procrams Werkshco, "Develcoing, Manacing, and Maintaining Collecticns'', Cctcher 1986.
McMillan, E., "Conservyaticn', lecture for CMP Workskco, 'Musemm Security", Nevemrer 1986.
McMillan, E., "What is Conservaticn?" lecture for dccents, Naticnal Musem of American History, February 1987.
McMillan, E., "Conservation Cconsideraticns,’' lecture in the CMP Worksitco, "Stsrace and dardlinc’', March 1987.
McMilian, E., "Conservaticn Consideraticns," lecture in Senior Curatorial Course, sccnsored by the Cantar for Military History, Airlie, VA, April 1987.
McMillan, E., "Basic Preblems and Prececures," lecture in CMP wWorkshco, "Drinciples of Conservaticn and Preventive Care", July 1987.
McMillan, 3., "Suncamentals of Conservaticn Sthics'', leccure in CMP Workshcp, Principles of Conservaticn and Preventive Care', July 1987.
McMilian, E., "Collecticns Manacement and Care: Ccnservaticn," lecture in CMP Seminar, 'Museum Carsers!', July 1987.
McMillan, E., "Sxaminaticn of Cbjects," lecture in '"Sxaminaticn, Cocumentaticn, and Analysis of Furniture, third ccurse of Furniture Conservaticn Training Program, Conservyaticn Analytical Lakcratsry, Marca 1987.
McMillan, E., "Training Activities of the Conservation Analytical Labcratsry," Pestar for Eichth Triennial Meeting or the ICM Conservaticn Comittse, Svdney, Sectember 1987.

<<<Page: 204>>>

Olin, J.S. and M. James Blackman, "Compcsiticnal Classificaticn of Mexican Masolica Ceramics of the Scanish Colenial Pericd,” Archaeolccical Chemistry Svmrcsimm, American Chemical Scciety, Demver, Colcraco, April 1987.
Olin, Jacqueline S., Reber> Clark Distincuisned Visiting Professcr, Lecarsment of Art, San Jcse Stat2 University, April-May, 1987.
Padfield, Tim, "Sew envircmmental controls can damace buidings," seminar, Envircmmental Controls in Histcric Buildings, New England Museums Assceciaticn, Bestcn, April 1987.
Padfield, Tim and McMillan, Eleanor, organizers and lecturers, Exvircmmental Control in Museums, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, Smithscnian Instituticn, Washingtcn DC, June 1987.
Padfield, Tim, "Wetmess sensors, what do they really measure?", Task Force on Acid Rain Effects on Materials, Restcn VA, June 1987.
Pacfialid, Tim, "Climat2 centrol in mseusi!', lecture to a ccurse, Preventive Conservyaticn, Office cf Musemm Procrams, Smithscnian Tssticutien,duly.1987.
Pestiethwaits, Alan, '"Sumicaticn What Shall We Do?" Washinctcn Conservaticn Guild, aArril 2, 1986
Power, Theresa, "Analysis and treatment of the statue of Gecrce Washicctsn," Meserm cf American Histsry, Smithscnian Instituticn, Washicctcn, D.c., July 24, 1987.
Sayre, Ecward V., "The Charactar=zaticn of Recks and Stone Artifacts", Teiyo Naticnal Research Institute of Cultural Precerties, February 1987.
Sayre, Ecward V., "Arplicaticn of Nuclear Methcds to the Stucy of Art and Archaeclccical Matariais," Institute for Radicisctcce Researca, Tokyo University, February 1987.
Sayre, Ecwara V., "Technical Studies of Early Chinese Bronze Vessels," Tckyo Naticnal Meseum, February 1987.
Sayr2, Ecward V., ‘The Technical Examinaticn, Lead Isotcre Letermnminaticn and Zlemental Analysis of Same Sharg and Zhcu Dynasty Bronze Vessels’, the seccnd syvmecsium cn "The Beginning of the Use of Metals and Alicys," Zhengzheu, China, Cctsber 1986.
Stranran, Comma KX. ‘The effects of boiling cn the quenched stsel stzruccure of martensite." Jubilee Conservaticn Conference, Institute of Arcnaeciccy, University of Lenden, Lenccn, July 6-10, 1987.
Strahan, Conma X. "Wield ccnservaticn technicues." Hararcan Excavaticn Team, Haracca, Pakistan, March 1987.
Strahan, Donna K. "A conservator’s view of the field: Hararca.” 15th Anmeal Conference on Scuth Asia, Maciscn, Wisccnsin, November 7-9, 1986.
Strahan, Donna K. ‘The 1987 excavaticn seascn at Hararca, Pakistan: a cconservatsr’s view." CAL, Smithscnian Instituticn, May 29, 1987.
Strahan, Donna X. "Conservaticn and preservaticn of ethnolegical Materials conference held in Cttawa." Washinctcn Ccnservaticn Guild, Washizgtcn, D.C., Jamuary 3, 1987.
Stramberg, Constance. "A technical stucy of three cloiscnne enamels from the Beticine collecticn.” CAL lecture, Smithsenian Instituticn, Aucust 23, 1987.
van cer Revcen, Dianne, orcanizer and mcderator of panel, '"Parer Conservaticn, an Intermaticnal Perscective’', Washingtcn Conservaticn Guild meeting, Library of Ceoncress, January 1987.

<<<Page: 205>>>

Varciver, P.3., "Case Studies of the Analysis of Ancient Caramicsi!, "Nucleaticn and Growth in Caramic Systams’! lectures in ccurse given at the M.I.T., Cctcber and November 1986.
Vandiver, P.B., "An Cutline for the Technolegical Develcrment of Eoyptian Ceramics", Conference cn Ancient Ecyptian Caramics, Metxrcrolit Museum of Art, November 1986.
Vandiver, P.B., "Secuential Slab Constructicn: A Neolithic Pottery Technolecy in West Asia’, American Anthrerolegical Asscciaticn, December 1986.
Vandiver, P.3. and Zhang Fukumg, "The Technolegy of Ancient Chinese Ceramics", Met=ccolitan Museum of Art, January 1987.
Varciver, P.3B., "From Paleclithic Picments ts Pottery, Plastars and
Perselain: Case Studiss’', Matarials Science and Archaeclesy ATs University of iiiineis, April 1987.
Vandiver, P.B., "The Techrolecy cf Xersan Calaccn", Naticnal Buraau of
Starcarcs, June 1987.
Vancivyer, P.B., “Arcient Ceramic Techreliccy', Anthrecolesy seminar, Yale University. ‘Neolithic to Barly Bronze Ace Caramic Techmciccy in West
Asia! and 'Methccs of Ceramic Analysis’, ccurse Given at Yale University, Feorzary, Marca, 1987.
Williams, Ceraid C,. crsanmizer, assistant acministratcr, faculty member, Smithsenian Instituticn/ Conservaticn Analytical Laberatsry Furniture Conservation. Training Precram.. Ccurse tepics:.") Fummitics Aistery ard Constructicn"', Lecember 1986, 'Methcds cf Hmminaticn, Aralysis, and Decumentaticn of Furniture’, March 1987, Adhesives fer Furniture Conservaticn", Jume 19387, "Structural Conservaticen of Furniture’, Sestember 1987.
Williams, [Denald C., scenser and organizer, werkskco "Conservaticn of Ma>suetry ard Beullework', Cctcsbrer 1986.
Williams, Ccralid C., "furniture LDetericraticn’', lecture to a SI Naticnal Asscciates ccurse, January 1987.
Williams, Cenald Cc, scenser, crcanizer and lecturer, workshep "Historic Painted Finishkes’', February 1987.
Williams, Cenald C., Pregram Chair, Weed Artifacts Screcialty Greup Sessicn, Annual Meeting of the American Institute for Conservation, Vanccuver, British Columbia, May 1987.
Williams, Ucnald C., lectures/worksrcp "Finishing Matariais and Technicues’', Dakota County Area Vecaticnal Technical Institute, Resemcunt, Minnescta, Jume 1987.
Williams, Conald C., '"Turmiture Care and Preservaticn!', CCAVTI, Resemcunt MN, June 1987.
Williams, Denaid C., "Preventative Conservaticn Furniture, SI Cw Ccurse, July 1987.
Williams, Cenald C., scenser and organizer, wortsicp 'S rvying", Jul 1987.
Williams, Marc A.,. organizer, acministcator, faculty member, Smithscnian Instituticn/ Conservaticn Analytical Laboratory Furniture Conservaticn Training Precram. Ccurse topics: " Furmiture Histecry and Constructicn’', December 1986, 'Methceds of Exeminaticn, Analysis, and Decumentaticn of Furniture’, March 1987, Adhesives fcr Furniture Conservaticni', June 1987, "Structural Conservaticn of Furniture", Sestember 1987.

<<<Page: 206>>>

Williams, Marc A., scenser and organizer, werkshcp "Conservaticn of Marcuetry and Bcullework”’, Cctcber 1986.
Williams, Mare A., "furniture Detericraticn and Care", SI Naticnal Asscciates ccurse, Jamuary 1987
Williams, Mars A., scenscr and orcanizer , workshcp "Historic Painted Finishes", February 1987.
Williams, Marc A., sccnsor and organizer, workshcp "Inlay Manufacture", April 1987.
Williams, Mars A., "Snuviremmental Effects cn Purmiiure', CAL ccurse cn envirtcmmental ccnt=ol, Jime 1987.
Williams, Marc A., stcnsor and corcanizer, workshop "Wecedcaryinc", July 1987.
Commoner, Lucy. ''The Folding Fan: History, Materials, Storage, Exhibition, and Laboratory Treatments" (published lecture), The Textile Conservation Group Newsletter, Vol. IX, No. 8, July, 1987.
Folding Fans in the Collection of the Coover-Hewitt Museum. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1986.
"Storage Containers for Textile Collections," New York State Conservation Consultancy, 1987.
Davidson, Gail. Drawing the Fine Line: European Drawings from Long Island
Private Collections. ex. cat. Hillwood Gallery, Greenvale, New York: Long Island University, C. W. Post Campus, 1986.
"Nicolas Poussin and Jacques Stella and the Classical Style in Paris 1640: The Altar Paintings for the Sainte Chapelle at Saint-Germain-en-
Laye,"' The French Academv: Classicism and its Antagonists. Newark,
Delaware: University of Delaware Press, 1987 (in press).
Dee, Elaine. "Les decors de théatre dans les collections du Cooper-Hewitt Museum 4 New York," L'Estampile, 207, October, 1987, pp. 36-44.
Moss, Gillian. (Catalogue entries for textiles and wallpapers) The Art That is Life: The Arts and Crafts Movement in America. 1875-1920. ex. cat. Boston: Museum of Fine Arts, 1987.
Sonday, Milton. "Pattern and Weaves: Safavid Lampas and Velvet," Woven from the Soul. Spun from the Heart: Textile Arts of Safavid and Oajar Iran (16th-19th Centuries). Washington, D.C.: The Textile Museum, 1987.
Taylor, Lisa. (Foreward) Berlin 1900-1933: Architecture and Design. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum and Berlin: Gebr. Mann Verlag, 1987.
(Foreward) Folding Fans in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1986.
(Foreward) Keys and Locks in the Collection of the Coover-Hewitt Museum, New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1987.

<<<Page: 207>>>

Fletcher, Valerie J. "Cubist Sculpture in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden." (Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1987).
Lawrence, Sidney "Sculpture in the Open Air: The Evolution of Sculpture Parks and Gardens." Sculpture (May/June 1987):2>16=17
So eeieiatntienienteientententententan "Ex Libris: Garden Pleasure." (book review). Garden Design 6, no. 3 (Autumn 1987): 12-15.
Weil, Stephen "Deaccession Practices in American Museums." Museum News 65, no. 3 (February 1987): 44-50.
Roger Brown by Sidney Lawrence, with an essay by John Yau. 119 pages, 28 color and 73 black and white illustrations. Copublished with George Braziller, New York. August 1987.
NATIONAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM Aeronautics Department
Anderson, John D., Jr. "The Wright Brothers: The First True Aeronautical Engineers." The Wright Flyer: An Engineering Perspective, pp. 1-17. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
, Boweutt, K. G., and Capriotti, D. "Vicous Optimized Hypersonic Waveriders." ATAA Paper No. 87-0272. Presented at the ATAA 25th Aerospace Sciences Meeting, Reno, Nevada, Jan. 12-15, 1987.
, Bowcutt, K. G., and Capriotti, D. "Numerical Optimization of Conical Flow Waveriders Including Detailed Vicous Effects." Aerodynamics of Hypersonic Lifting Vehicles, pp. 27-1 to 27-23. AGARD Conference Preprint No. 428, March 1987.
and Kothari, A. P. "Low Reynolds Number Effects on Subsonic Compressibility Corrections." Journal of Aircraft 24(8) (1987) :567-568.
"Sir George Cayley." Great Lives from History: British and Commonwealth Series. Inglewood Cliffs, N.J.: Salem Press, 1987.
Davies, R. E. G. Rebels and Reformers of the Airways. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
Douglas, Deborah G. (Abstract). "United States Women in Aviation, 1940 to Present." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 209-210. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.

<<<Page: 208>>>

lee, Russell E. "Leroy R. Grumman and the F6F Hellcat." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 141-145. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Leyes, Richard A. "The 1903 Wright Flyer Engine: A Summary of Research." World War I Aero 112 (December) (1986) :17-24.
"The 1903 Wright Flyer Engine: A Summary of Research." ~ National Air and _Space Museum Research Report 1986, po. 185-197. Washington, D.C. Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Mikesh, Robert C. “might Flyer Model Kit Review." World War I Aero 112 (December) (1986) :29-33.
"Saga of the Spirit of St. Louis Nose Cone." American Aviation ~ Historical Society Journal 31(4) (1986) :284-87.
. "More About the Saga." American Aviation Historical Society ~ Journal 32 (1) (1987) :80.
"Seaplane Shuttle." Professional Pilot 21(7) (1987) :50-52.
Oakes, Claudia M. "Heroines in the History of Aviation." Revista Aerea 101(1) (1987) :26-29.
. Book review, Women of the Air. Air & Space/Smithsonian 2(3) (1987) :110.
Pisano, Dominick A. "A Brief History of the Civilian Pilot Training Program, 1939-1944." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 21-41. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
. "American Jet Flight." Book of Days, 1987: An Encyclopedia of Information Sources on Historical Fiqures and Events, Keyed to the Calendar Dates, pp. 491-492. Ann Arbor, Michigan: Pierian Press, 1986.
Schneide, Karl S. "Restoration: SPAD XIII." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 125-131. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
van der Linden, F. Rabert and Winter, Frank. "Out of the Past."
Aerospace America (Monthly column). Wolko, Howard S., ed. The Wright Flyer: An Engineering Perspective.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987. : feet Design of the 1903 Wright Flyer." The Wright ‘Flyer: An Engineering Perspective, pp. 97-106. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987. Wooldridge, E. T. "Chairman's Overview: Department of Aeronautics."
National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 15-19. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
Andre, C. G., Blodget, H. W., and Marcell, R. F. (Abstract). "Tracing Sedimentary Formations Using TM Visible, Near IR and Thermal IR Data. In Summaries, International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment,
Fifth Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geology, pp 69-70, Reno: 1986.
(Abstract). "Geologic Investigation of a Volcanic Complex in Saudi Arabia Using Satellite Images of Thermal and Reflected
Radiation." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, p.99. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.

<<<Page: 209>>>

wv w
. (Abstract). "Subsurface Structure of the Palo Duro Basin Inferred from T™ Imagery." In Summaries, International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, Fifth Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geology, pp. 130-131. Reno: 1986.
Baker, V., Carr, M., Fanale, F., Greeley, R., Haberle, R., Leovy, C., and Maxwell, T., (eds.) (Summary). "MECA Symposium on Mars: Evolution of its Climate and Atmosphere Summary of Technical Sessions." In Lumar and Planetary Institute Technical Report 87-01, pp. 7-12. Houston: lunar and Planetary Institute, 1987.
Bougan, S. J. and Maxwell, T. A. (Abstract). "Spectral and Spatial Variation in Desert Lag Deposits and Inferences for Mixing Models of
Terrestrial and Planetary Remote Sensing Data." In Geological Society of American Abstracts with Programs 18 (1986) :548.
, Leff, C., and Maxwell, T. A. (Abstract). "Spectral and Thermal Characteristics of the Southeastern Amenthes Region of Mars." In Lunar and Planetary Science XVIII, pp. 115-116. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1987.
. (Abstract). "Geologic Mapping of Ganymede." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 207-208. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Hooper, D. M. and Jacobberger, P. A. (Abstract). "Spectral and Characteristics of Dunes and Interdunme Corridors West of the Okavango Delta, Botswana." In Geological Society of American Abstracts with Programs 18 (1986) :640.
, and Maxwell, T. A. (Abstract). "Distribution of Lunar Craters and Multi-Ring Basins: A Test for Lunar Polar Wandering." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 211-212. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Jacobberger, P. A. (Abstract). "Mapping of the Abandoned Fluvial System of Azaouad Depression Using MSS and TM Data." In Summaries, Twentieth International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Enviromment: Remote Sensing of Africa, pp. 66-67. Nairobi: 1986.
. (Abstract). "Drought-related Changes in the Inland Niger Delta of Mali." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 18 (1986) :644.
(Abstract). "Remote Sensing and Field Study of Drought-related Changes in the Inland Niger Delta of Mali." In Summaries, Twentieth International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Enviromment: Remote Sensing of Africa, pp. 196-197. Nairobi: 1986.
"Geomorphology of the Upper Niger Delta." Journal of Arid Environments 13 (1987) 95-112.
Maxwell, T. A. "Chairman's Overview." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 93-97. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
, and Jacobberger, P. A. (Abstract). "Remote Sensing Observations of Sand Movement in the Bahariya Depression, Western Desert of Egypt." In Summaries, Twentieth International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Enviromment: Remote Sensing of Africa, p. 49. Nairobi: 1986.
(Guest Editorial). "Learning Earth Sciences From Space." Science Books and Films 22 (1986):80.
. (Invited Paper). "Exploring Deserts." Earth Science 39
(1986) :12-14.

<<<Page: 210>>>

, and McGill, G. (Abstract). "Ages of Fracturing and Resurfacing Along the Martian Dichotomy Boundary Between Nepenthes and Nilosyrtis Mensae." In Lunar and Planetary Science XVIII, pp. 604-605. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1987.
, and Leff, C. (Abstract). "Tectonic Domains in the Eastern Hemisphere of Mars." In Reports of Planetary Geology and Geophysics Program 1986, pp. 487-488. NASA TM-89810, 1987.
. (Abstract). "Implications of Viking Color Data for Evolution of the Amenthes Region Mars." In Reports of Planetary Geology and Geophysics Program 1986, pp. 472-473. NASA TM-89810, 1987.
. (Invited Editorial). "A Revolution in Resolution." Air & Space/Smithsonian 2 (1987) :4.
Strain, Priscilla. "Looking at Earth—a New Exhibition Gallery." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986 pp. 147-157. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Watters, T. R. (Abstract). "The Tharsis Plateau: A Case for Thin-skinned Deformation on Mars." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 18 (1986):783.
(Abstract) "Structural Analysis of the Volcanic Plains of the Columbia Plateau Using Seasat Radar." HOS 67 (1986):1075.
. (Abstract). "Volcanic-Plains Ridges on the Terrestrial Planets: A Comparison of the Columbia and Tharsis Plateaus." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 19 (1987) :463.
(Abstract). "The Volcanic Plains Ridges of the Chryse and Amazonis Depressions." In Lumar and Planetary Science XVIII, pp. 1064-1065. Houston: Innar and Planetary Institute, 1987.
(Abstract). "Thin and Thick-skinned Deformation in the Tharsis Region of Mars." In Reports of Planetary Geology and Geophysics Program 1986, pp. 481-483. NASA TM-889810, 1987.
Office of Collections Management
Ezell, Linda Neuman. "Tooling Up for Space." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 133-140. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
, and Lewis, Cathleen S. 'Mission to Moscow—-Repairing the Apollo-Soyuz Exhibition." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 117-123. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Office of External Affairs Duff, Brian. "On the Wing: The Movie That Created Its Own Monster." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp.169-173. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986. Office of Information Management Suthard, Karl P. "Documentary Collections and Facilities." National
Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 219-224. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.

<<<Page: 211>>>

Department of Space Science and Exploration
Ceruzzi, Paul E. Book Review, Wallace J. Eckert, Punched Card Methods in Scientific Computation; D.R. Hartree, Calculating Machines, (both vols., Cambridge, MA, 1984), in ISIS 77 (1986) :154-6.
. Book Review, Konrad Zuse, Der Computer, Mein Lebenswerk, 2nd ed. (Berlin, 1984), in Ann. Hist. Comp. 8 (1986): 317.
Book Review, Carolyn Caddes, Portraits of Success (Palo Alto, 1986), in Computing Reviews, July, 1987: #8707-0551.
Book Review, James Beniger, The Control Revolution (Cambridge, MA, " MA, 1986), in Science, Technology & Human Values, 12/2 (spring 1987): 67-68.
. The Aerospace Computing Gallery—Research Issues; National Air
and Space Museum Research Report 1986: pp. 175-178.
. "Heartbeat"; Air & Space/Smithsonian, August/September, p-6.
Collins, Martin J. "Glennan-Webb-Seamans Fund for Research in Space History," in National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986: pp 199-204. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Dennis, Michael Aaron. "Accounting for Research: New Histories of Corporate Laboratories and the Social History of American Science," Social Studies of Science vol. 17 (1987): 479-518.
DeVorkin, David H. Practical Astronomy: Lectures on Time, Place and Space (Smithsonian Press, October/November 1986): pp. 104. Reviewed in:
Sky & Telescope (July 1987).
. "Chairman's Overview." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp.45-48. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
, and Henry, R. C., co-eds., H. A.Rowland and Astronomical Spectroscopy, (Special Issue) Vistas in Astronomy 29 #2 (1986).
"The Dawn of Balloon Astronomy," Sky & Telescope, (December 1986).: pp 579° =. 582.
. Book Review, Sky With Ocean Joined (Steven Dick) in American Scientist 74 (November/December 1986): pp. 668 669.
. Book Review, Astronomy and Astronautics: An Enthusiast's Guide ~ to Books and Periodicals. (Andy Lusis) in Isis 77 #4 (1986): pp. 679 680.
Book Review, Bernard Iovell, A Biography. (Dudley Saward), in ‘Technology and Culture (in press for volume 29).
Book Review, The Analysis of Starlight. (J. B. Hearnshaw), in Science 237 (14 August 1987): pp. 783 784.
. "Charles Greeley Abbot's Balloon-Borne Pyrheliometer,"Bulletin_ ~ of the American Astronomical Society, 26 (1986). Paper delivered at AAS meetings January 1987.
. "Henry Norris Russell and the Composition of the Sun," Bulletin of the American Physical Society (1987). Paper delivered at the APS meetings, May 1987.
Kosloski, Lillian D., and Hill, Janice. "Conservation Lecture Series." National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1986, pp. 179-183. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Lewis, Cathleen S. "Plans for Soviet Space Station Complex Discussed," USSR Technology Update, Vol 2, no. 10 p. 1-2. "Soviets Initiate Mathematical Modeling Projects for Jupiter Probe," USSR Technology Update, no. 11, p. 1-2.

<<<Page: 212>>>

_,: and Ezell, Linda Neuman. "Mission to Moscow—-Repairing the ~~ Apollo-Soyuz Exhibition." National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1986, pp. 117-123. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Needell, Allan A. "Lloyd Berkner, Merle Tuve and the Federal Role in Radio Astronomy," OSIRIS 3, 1987: pp. 261-288.
. Preparing for the Space Age: University-based Research, 1946-1957, Historical Studies in the Physical and Biological Sciences 18: (1), 1987.
. “Historical Seminar on Contemporary American Science and ~~ Technology—The First Three Years." National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1986, pp. 163-165. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Tatarewicz, Joseph N. Slide Set Review, ios Slides. Science Books and Films Films 22/1 (September—October 1986):
. Film Review, Growing Up with Sea Science Books and Films 22/2 (Nov.-Dec. 1986): 134-5.
. Software leit The Daily Planet. Science Books and Films 22/2 (Nov.-Dec. 1986):
«) ». Te: the Sue on a Firm Basis--Origins of the JPL Table ~ Mountain Observatory, 1957-1965." (Abstract) Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 18/4 (1986): 1055.
. Book Review, Ewen A. Whitaker, The University of Arizona's ~ Lonar and Planetary Laboratory, Its Founding and Early Years. Isis 78/1 (1987): 96-97.
. Book Review, O'Neill, W.M. Early Astronomy: From Babylonia to Copernicus; Science Books and Films 22/5 (May-June 1987): 293.
Winter, Frank H. "Lighting the Fuse — The Cleveland Rocket Society." Timeline (Columbus, Ohio, Ohio Historical Society), Vol. 3. No. 5, October November 1986: 14-25.
. (Abstract). "The Congreve-Hale Era of Rocketry." NationalBir and Space Museum Research Report 1986, pp. 217-218. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
__s, and van der Linden, F. Robert. "Out of the Past."
Aerospace America (Monthly column).
Freyer, Bryna. Royal Benin Art in the Collection of the National Museum
of African Art. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
Geary, Christraud. "Basketry in the Aghem-Fungom Area of the Cameroon Grassfields." African Arts 20 (May 1987): 42-53.
Gilfoy, Peggy Stoltz. Patterns of Life: West African Strip-—Weaving Traditions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
National Museum of African Art. The Art of West African Kingdoms. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
Robbins, Warren. "African Art."' Museum and Arts Washington 3 (SeptemberOctober 1987): 36.
Sieber, Roy, and Roslyn Adele Walker. African Art in the Cycle of Life. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
Williams, Sylvia. "The Art Museum and Its Library." Art Documentation 6 (Fall 1987): 124.

<<<Page: 213>>>

Art,.1987:.
Broun, Elizabeth. "Thomas Hart Benton: A Politician in Art." Smithsonian Studies in American Art I:l (Spring 1987): 59-77.
Corn, Wanda. "Women Building History." In American Women Artists 1830-1930, pp. 26-34. Washington, D.C.: The National Museum of Women in the Arts, 1987.
Eldredge, Charles C. "Nature Symbolized" American Painting from Ryder to Hartley." In The Spiritual in Art: Abstract Painting 1890-1985, ed. Maurice Tuckman, pp. 112-129. New York: Abbeville Press, 1986.
"Torre dei Schiavi: Monument and Metaphor." Smithsonian
Studies in American Art I:2 (Fall 1987): 14-33.
Fink, Lois M. Review of Drawn to Art: A Nineteenth-Century American
Dream, by Diana Korzenik. American Studies 27 (Spring 1987): 70. Foresta, Merry A., with Pete Daniel. Official Images: New Deal Photography. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987. Moser, Joann. "Behind the Surface." In American Master Prints. Washington, D.C.: The Trust for Museum Exhibitions, 1987. Mecklenburg, Virginia M., with William Kloss. Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation Collection. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987. Norelli, Martina Roudabush. "Hermitage." In Art Museums of the World, pp. 1423-43. New York: Greenwood Press, 1987."The Status of Computerization in 1987: A Survey of Print Council Members." Print Council of America Newsletter (1987): 2-33. Panzer, Mary. In My Studio: Rudolf Eiwckemeyer, Jr., and the Art of the Camera 1885-1916. Yonkers, N.Y.: The Hudson River Museum, 1987. Panzer, Nora. "American Landscapes: Twentieth-Century Selections" , 1987. Rand, Harry Z. Hundertwasser der Maler, German language edition. Munich: F. Bruckmann Verlag, 1986.Merrill Mahaffey: Canyons of the Green and Colorado Rivers.
Houston: Museum of Art of the American West, 1986.
Review of Morris Louis: The Complete Paintings, A Catalogue Raisonne, by Diane Upright. Leonardo 19:3 (1986).
Byron Browne: Paintings and Drawings from the Thirties, Forties, and Fifties. Roslyn, N.Y.: Nassau County Museum of Fine AGES, 198.7%.
The Collections of the Convention Center. Washington, D.C., L987 «
"Comments on the 'Display of Art: An Historical Perspective'
by David Carrier." Leonardo 20:2 (1987).
“Jules Olitski." Arts Magazine, March 1987. Lester Johnson. Greensburg, Pa.: Westmoreland Museum of
Manet's Contemplation at the Gare Saint-Lazare. Berkeley:
University of California Press, 1987."To the Gare Saint-Lazare." Arts Magazine, January 1987. Serwer, Jacquelyn Days, with Douglas Davis and Donald Kuspit. Gene Davis: A Memorial Exhibition. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.

<<<Page: 214>>>

Department of the History of Science and Technology
Daniel, Pete. “Command Performances: Photography from the United States Department of Agriculture.” In Official Images: New Deal Photography by Pete Daniel, Merry A. Foresta, Maren Strange, and Sally Stein. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
Ezell, Ed. Reflections on the Wall: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, introduction, captions, and editorial content by Edward C. Ezell, forewords by Jan C. Scruggs, John P. Wheeler, III, General William C. Westmoreland, and James Quay, design and photographic layout by James H. Wallace, Jr., photographs by Smithsonian Office of Printing and Photographic Services. Stackpole Books, Inc., 1987.
> and R. Blake Stevens. The Black Rifle: Ml6 Rifle Retrospective. Toronto: Collector Grade Publications, Inc., 1987.
. “Small Arms." In Weapons and Warfare: Conventional Weapons and Their Roles in Battle, edited by Major General Ken Perkins, 193-205. Pergammoa Brassey's, 1987.
. “Small Arms for the Year 2000." International Defense Review 20, no. 6 (1987): 801-02, 804.
“Recent Developments in 40mm Grenade Launchers and Related Ammunition.” International Defense Review (April 1987): 5
. "The Search for the Advanced Combat Rifle.” International Defense Review nos 9 GL9s7) 1221525).
, and Donald E. Kloster. "American Posters and the First World War.’ AB Bookman'’s Weekly 79, no. 26 (June 29, 1987).
Kidwell, Peggy A. "The Webb Adder." Rittenhouse 1 (1987): 12-18.
. "Prentice's Rectangular Protractor.” Rittenhouse 1 (1987): 61-63.
"J.W. Nystrom's Calculating Rule.” Rittenhouse 1 (1987): 102-05.
,» and David Packard. Encyclopedia of World Biography, Twentieth Century Supplement. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1987.
» and An Wang. Encyclopedia of World Biography, Twentieth Century Supplement. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1987.
Kondratas, Ramunas, and Barry B. Goldberg, M.D. "Preserving the History of Diagnostic Ultrasound.” Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology 13 (1937): 239-40.
Langley, Harold D. "Trade as a Precursor of Diplomacy.” Arms at Rest: Peacemakers and Peacekeepers in American History, edited by Joan Challinor and Robert L. Beisner. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1937.
lubar, Steve, and Brooke Hindle. Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revolution, 1790-1350. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
Engines of Change: An Exhibition on the American Industrial Revolution. Washington: National Museum of American History, 1986.
"Public History in a Federal Museum: The Smithsonian's National Museum of American History.” In Public History: An Introduction, edited by Barbara Howe and Emory Kemp. Malabar, Florida: Krieger Publishing, 1986.

<<<Page: 215>>>

"A Place for Public Business: The Material Culture of the Nineteenth-Century Federal Office,” with Carlene Stephens. Business and Economic History 15 (1986).
"Railroad Lines, Trolley Cars, and Community: The Early Suburban History of Silver Spring, Maryland." Maryland Historical Magazine (Winter 1986).
“Culture and Technological Design in the 19th-Century Pin Industry: John Howe and the Howe Manufacturing Company.” Technology and Culture (April 1987).
Melosh, Barbara, and Christina Simmons. “Exhibiting Women's History." In Presenting the Past, edited by Susan Porter Benson, Stephen Brier, and Roy Rosenzweig, 203-221. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1986.
"“'Peace in Demand’: Gender as Politics in 1930s Antiwar Plays.” History Workshop Journal 22 (Autumn 1986): 70-88.
"Nursing and Reaganomics: Cost Containment in the United States.’
In Political Issues in Nursing: Past, Present, and Future, Vol. 2, edited by Rosemary White. New York: John Wiley, Inc., 1936.“The Politics of Birth in the 1980s." In Generations. New York:
Pantheon Books, 1987.
Post, Robert C. “The Cars Won't Fly.” Air and Space 1 (August-September 1986): 76-84.
"Von Daimler und Benz zu Garlits und Beck: Woher kommen die allerschnellsten Rennwagen?” Kultur & Technik 10 (1986): 114-123.
“Tancook Island: Birthplace of the Tancook Whaler.” Quarterboard
(Maine Maritime Museum) (Spring 1986): 4-5.
“In Praise of Top Fuelers.” Invention and Technology 1 (1986): 58-63.
Preface to The Wessaweskeag Thorndikes. Bath: Maine Maritime Museum, 1986.
Reingold, Nathan. "Uniformity as Hidden Diversity: History of Science in the United States, 1920-1940." Britisn Journal for the History of Science 19 (November 1986): 243-62.
“On Not Doing the Papers of Great Scientists." British Journal for the History of Science 20 (January 1987): 29-38.
. "“Vannevar Bush's New Deal for Research: Or the Triumph of the Old Order. HSPS 17, no.2 (1987): 299-344.
Warner, Deborah Jean. "At the Sign of the Quadrant: The Navigational Instrument Business in America to the Civil War." American Neptune 46 (1986): 258-63.
. “Air Pumps in American Education.” The Physics Teacher (February 1987): 82-85.
"“Rowland's Gratings: Contemporary Technology.“ Vistas in Astronomy 29 (1986): 125-30.
“The Surveyor's Compass.” Rittenhouse 1 (1987): 64-74.
. “American Kaleidoscopes.” Rittenhouse 1 (1987): 113-15.
White, Jr., John H. “More Than an Idea Whose Time Has Come: The Beginnings of Steel Freignt Cars." History of Technology, edited by Norman Smith, 181-207. Imperial College, London: Mansell Publishing Limited, 1986.
“The Real Thing.” Timber Transfer 4, no. 1 (Spring 1987): 6-9.“More Noteworthy Railroaders.” Railroad History 156 (Spring 1987): 86-87.

<<<Page: 216>>>

Withuhn, William L. "The 1986 Railroad History Awards.” Railroad History 155 (Autumn 1986): 7-11. . "1218: Home to Roanoke.” Trains 47, no. 11 (September 1987): 26-33. . "New Steam in the 1980s--What Happened?" Railroad History 156 (Spring 1987): 7-10.
Department of Social and Cultural History
Ahlborn, Richard. "An Arizona Mission Font." Journal of the Southwest 29, no. 2 (Summer 1987): 4.
Crew, Spencer. Field to factory: Afro-American Migration 1915-1940. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1987.
“Collecting Afro-American Material Culture in the Twenty-First Century. Serip.3,: nos.69(Falt. 1986).
» and John A. Fleckner. “Archival Sources for Business History at the National Museum of American History.” Business History Review 60 (Autumn 1986).
“The Great Migration of Afro-Americans, 1915-40." Monthly Labor Review 110 (March 1987).
Crouch, Tom D, ed. Charles A. Lindbergh: An American Life. Wasnington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, third printing. “From Dream to Reality." In The Smithsonian Book of Flight, 23-31. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
. “How the Bicycle Took Wing.” American Heritage of Invention and Technology. Reprinted in SirS Science. Boca Raton, Florida: Social Issues Resources, 1987, reprint 67.
“Capable of Flight, the Feud Between the Wright Brothers and the Smithsonian. American Heritage of Invention and Technology 2, no. 3 (Spring 1987): 34-50.
"Who Else Flew First?" American Heritage of Invention and Technology 3, no. 1 (Summer 1987): 2.
. "A Wrong or Two Wrights?" Timeline 4, no. 4 (August-September 1987):
42-48.
Fesperman, Jonn, trans. Organs of the Mexico City Cathedral by D. A. Flentrop. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987."Cambridge Records: An Appreciation.” Early Keyboard Studies 3, no.
2 (1987).
Harris, Elizabeth. “Inventing Printing for the Blind." Printing History 8, nos2.(L986)% 12-15%
Hasse, John. "Ragtime: The Sounds of a Nation and Generation.” 13th Festa
New Orleans Music Ascona. Ascona, Switzerland: Festa New Orleans Music Ascona, 1987.
Articles on Hoagy Carmichael, the Indiana University Archives of Traditional Music, and nine ragtime figures, and contributions to articles on Cincinnati and Indianapolis. Im The New Grove Dictionary of American Music, edited by H. Wiley Hitchcock and Stanley Sadie. Four volumes. London and New York: Grove's Dictionaries of Music, 1986.
Hazen, Robert M., and Margaret Hindle Hazen. The Music Men: An Illustrated History of Brass Bands in America, 1800-1920. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 19387.
Mayo, Edith. "ERA Postmortem of a Failure in Political Communication. In Rignots of Passage, edited by Joan Hoff-Wilson. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1986.

<<<Page: 217>>>

“Anti Commodifiers in Public History." American Quarterly 33
(Winter 1986).
Sturm, Gary, and William Monical. American Violin Makers before 1930.
American Federation of Violin and Bow Makers, 1987. . Classic Bowed Stringed Instruments from the Smithsonian Institution. Tokyo: Gakken, 1936.
Wright, Helena. “The Image Makers: The Role of the Graphic Arts in
Industrialization.” Journal of the Society for Industrial Archeology 2. en Oem-2 qa Gl 986).
National Philatelic Collection
Bruns, James H. “More Post Office (Dead Letter) Puzzles.” The United
States Specialist 58, no. 4 (April 1987): 181-84. . “Remembering the Dead." Stamps (January 17, 1987): 8-10. . "Mailster Mania." The United States Specialist 58, no. 1
Sas L987.)s 35=4L.
United States Specialist 57, no. 12 (December 1986): 558-62.
"Tractor-Trailer Troubles on Highway Post Office Route Two.” The
. "Mail Responds to Crisis.” Stamps (July 25, 1987): 44-45.“The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly...Early Mail Trucks.” Stamps
(February 28, 1987): 10-12.
. "Hammering Away at an Old Debate. The United States Specialist
58, no. 4 (April 1987): 155-162.
. “RFD: Reaching Rural America." Scott Stamp Monthly 5, no. 8
(June 1987): 16-20.
. “What You See Is Not Always What You Get.” The United States
Specialist 58, no. 7 (July 1987): 313-17.
. "A Coming of Age...the Post Office Department turns to Typewriters." Stamps (June 20, 1987): 36-38."New York Harbor Boat Service." The Heliograph 1, no. 2 (Spring
1987 )2 1=6
. “Marking America's Mail...An Overview of the Turn of the Century Rapid Cancelling Machine Makers and the Machines Used in Cancelling Postal Cards." Postal Stationery 29, no. 1 (January-February 1987): 2-13.
"A Tenure of Change...Motorizing the Mail.” Stamps 217, no. 12
(December 1986): 8-12.
. "Early Plate Destruction Reports.” The United States Specialist
58, no. 2 (February 1987): 55-59.
"Here's How the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Solved Early Stamp Gum Problems." The United States Specialist 58, no. 3 (March 1987): 123=26.
Geraci, Joseph J. “One Man's Impression of ITALIA '85." Mare Nostrum 4,
no. 4.
National Numismatic Collection
Cancio, Leopold. "Notas Sobre La Insigne Orden del Toison de Oro en el Siglo
XVI." Gaceta Numismatics no. 82 (September 1986): 33-38.“The Coming Bicentennial of the U.S. Dollar.” Numismatic Circular
(April 1987).

<<<Page: 218>>>

Clain Stefanelli, Elvira. "Gems from the Smithsonian: The Mystery of Two of the Most Striking Coins Ever Issued by the U.S. Mint.” New England Journal of Numismatics 1, no. 16 (Summer 1986).
Doty, Richard. Introduction to The American Silver Coinage, 1794-1891. New York: American Numismatic Society, 1987.
. “British Tokens and the Industrial Revolution." Coin World (April 1987 supplement).
Gillilland, Cory, and Raymond Hebert. “North and South America." In Vol. 2 of A Survey of Numismatic Research, 1978-1984, Oriental Numismatics, Medals and Scientific Techniques, 950-9650. London: International Numismatic Commission, 1986.
"The Art of the Medal." Coin World (July 1987 supplement): 1-50.
Hebert, Raymond. "“Lucien-dippolyte Gosselin--French American Medallist and Sculptor.” The Genealogist (Spring 1987): 64-66. Reprinted in Je Me Souviens (Summer 1987): 76-83.
“Not in Kardkoff." Journal of the Russian Numismatic Society (Spring 1987): 11-18.
"The China Inland Mission and Its Currency." NI Bulletin 21, no. 1 (January 1987): 11-14.
"Indian Christian Devotional Medals." NI Bulletin 20, no. 11 (November 1986): 245-51.
. "Note on Two 13th Century Isfahan Bronzes." NI Bulletin 20, no. 10 (October 1986): 231-33.
"Medieval Coins Out of Africa." NI Bulletin (June 1987): 131-39.
. “Chinese Cloth Money.” NI Bulletin (July 1987): 165-67.
. "A Sallarid Dirham of Abu Nasr Justan B. Sharmazan." Newsletter Oriental Numismatic Society (March-April 1987): 1-2.
Volson, Lynn. "Rittenhouse Banknotes." Rittenhouse 1, no. 4 (1987): 196.
Office of Academic Programs
Kulik, Gary. "Factory Discipline in the New Nation: Almy, Brown, and Slater and the First Cotton—Mill Workers, 1790-1808." Massachusetts Review (Spring 1987).
Department of Public Programs
Bowers, Dwight Blocker. "“'Show Boat' on the Potomac.” WETA1, no. 2 (November 1987): 18-19.
Cherkasky, Shirley, Ken Yellis, and Laura McKie. "Public Programming in Museums.” The Museologist 51, no. 176 (Summer 1987): 5-8.
Hilke, D.D. "Museums as Resources for Family Learning: Turning the Question Around.” The Museologist 50, no. 175 (Winter 1987): 14-15.
Paisley-Jones, Heather, and Joan Madden. "First Hand Experience.” Journal of
Museum Education: Roundtable Reports 12, no. 2 (Spring-Summer 1987).
Paisley—Jones, Heather, and Nancy McCoy. "Consider This.” Journal of Museum
Education: Roundtable Reports 12, no. 2 (Spring-Summer 1987). Reagon, Bernice Johnson. Black American Culture and Scholarship: Contemporary Issues. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1985. Sharpe, Elizabeth. "The Visitor as Historian: The Hands on History Room Experience.” Journal of Museum Education: Roundtable Reports 12, no. 2 (Spring-Summer 1987).

<<<Page: 219>>>

Taiwo, Camellia Blackwell. The Relationship Between Color Preference and SelfConcept Among Senior High School Students. Doctoral dissertaion. Ann Arbor, Michigan: University Microfilms, 1987.
Taylor, Lonn, ed. A Common Agenda for History Museums. Nashville:
American Association for State and Local History, 1987.
» and Dessa Bokides. New Mexican Furniture 1600-1940...The Origins, Survival, and Renewal of Furniture Making in the Hispanic Southwest. Santa Fe, New Mexico: Museum of New Mexico Press, 1987.
Archives Center
Flaherty, Stacy A. “Boycott in Butte: Organized Labor and the Chinese Community, 1896-1897." Montana: The Magazine of Western History 37, no. 1 (Winter 1987): 34-47. Fleckner, John A. “An Archivist Speaks to the Museum Profession.” Museum News 65 (October-November 1986). Harding, Robert S. Register of the William J. Hammer Collection, c. 1874-1935. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1936.Register of the George W. Sims Papers, c. 1896-1981. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1936.Guide to the Julian Black Scrapbooks of Joe Louis, 1935-1944. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1987.
Afro-American Communities Project
Horton, James 0., and Lois Horton. "Changes in Society: Pluralism and Fragmentation.” In The American Destiny: An Illustrated History of the United States, edited by Marcus Cunliffe, et.al. London: Orbis Book Publishing Corporation, Ltd., 19386.
. “Black Families in Freedom.” In Legacies: An Audiocourse on the History of Women and tne Family in America, 1607-1870. An Annenberg Project, 1986.

<<<Page: 220>>>

Department of Anthropology
Adovasio, J. M. "Prehistoric Basketry." In Great Basin. Edited by Warren d'Azevedo. Handbook of North American Indians 11 (1986): 194-205. General Editor, W. Sturtevant. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Adovasio, J. M., and Carlisle, R. C. "Pennsylvania Pioneers." Natural History 95 (12)(1986): 20-27.
Adovasio, J. M., and Lamberg-Karlovsky, C. C. Note: "Textile Impression from Tepe Langar." In Excavations at Tepe Yahya, Iran 1967-1975, The Early Periods, by Thomas Wight Beale. American School of Prehistoric Research Bulletin (38)(1986). Cambridge, Massachusetts: Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, Harvard University.
Adovasio, J. M.; Burkett, C. K., Jr.; Ilisevich, R. D.; and Carlisle, R. C. "Phase I Cultural Resource Management Report, Fairview Sewer Project, Fairview Township, Erie County, Pennsylvania." A Report Prepared by CRM Associates, Pittsburgh, for PRC Engineering Company, Erie, Pennsylvania.
Albanese, John. "Geologic Investigations." In The Horner Site: The Type Site of the Cody Cultural Complex. Edited by George C. Frison and Lawrence C. Todd. (1987): 279-326. Orlando: Academic Press.
Andrews, R. L., and Adovasio, J. M. "'Minor League?' A Reply to Glenna Williams-Dean." North American Archaeologist 7 (4)(1986): 355-364.
Andrews, R. L.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Carlisle, R. C. "Perishable Industries from Dirty Shame Rockshelter, Malheur County, Oregon." Jointly issued as Ethnolo Monographs (9) and University of Oregon Anthropological Papers (34)(1986). Pittsburgh.
Andrews, R. L.; Adovasio, J. M.; Carlisle, R. C.; Frison; George C.; and Edgar, Robert. "A Late Paleoindian Animal Hunting Net from Northern Wyoming." American Antiquity 51 (20)1986: 352-361.
Angel, J. L.; Kelley, Jennifer; Parrington, Michael; and Pinter, Stephen. "Life Stresses of the Free Black Community as Represented by the First African Baptist Church, 1823-1841." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 74 (2)(October 1987).
Antonm-Pacheco, Carmen; Payas, Alba; Gumiel, Pablo; Schmidt, R. G.; Kingston,
J. J.3; Milton, Nancy; and Ehmann, W. J. "Mineral Exploration in Central North Carolina Using Spectra of Forest Trees and of Soil in Cultivated
Fields." Proceedings of International Symposium on Remote Sensing of
Environment Sept. 29-Oct. 2, 1986. (1986): Reno, Nevada. Bienenfeld, Paula. "Stone Tool Use at Five Neolithic Sites in the Netherlands:
A Lithic Use-wear Analysis." Ph.D. Dissertation, Department of Anthropology, State University of New York, Binghamton. Ann Arbor:
University Microfilms. Blakey, Michael L. "American Nationality and Ethnicity in the Depicted Past."
Archaeological 'Objectivity' in Interpretation. 2 (1987): 1-13. Southampton and London: The World Archaeological Congress/Allen and Unwin Press.
Brooks, Alison S. "Teacher's Corner: Archeology in the Classroom." Anthro-Notes 8 (3)(1986): 5-6. . "Interior Africa: Central and Southern at 18,000 B.P." Socie for
American Archeology. Abstracts of Annual Meeting (1987): 55.
ite H =>)

<<<Page: 221>>>

Brooks, Alison S. "Biosocial Perspectives on School-Age Pregnancy." Anthro-Notes 9 (2)(1987): 1-4, 14.
Brooks, Alison S., and Smith, Catherine C. "Ishango Revisited: New Age Determinations and Cultural Interpretations." African Archaeological Review 5 (1987): 65-78.
Brocks, Alison S., and Yellen, John E. "The Preservation of Activity Areas in the Archaeological Record: Ethnoarchaeological and Archaeological Work in Northwest Ngamiland, Botswana." In Method and Theo for Activity Area Research: An Ethnoarchaeological Approach. Edited by Susan Kent. (1987): 63-106. New York: Columbia University Press.
Burch, Ernest S., Jr. "The Eskaleuts--A Regional Overview." In Native Peoples. The Canadian Experience. Edited by R. Bruce Morrison and C. Roderick Wilson. (1986): 98-106. Toronto: McClelland and Stewart.
"The Caribou Inuit." In Native Peoples. The Canadian Experience.
Edited by R. Bruce Morrison and C. Roderick Wilson. (1986): 106-133. Toronto: McClelland and Stewart.
Crowell, Aron. "The Economics of Site Destruction on St. Lawrence Island." The Northern Raven (1987). Wolcott, Vermont: The Center for Northern Studies.
D'Agostino, J. P., and Schmidt, R. G. "Gold in Panned Concentrates from Southern Alamance County, Central North Carolina." U. S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 86-453 (1986): 5 pages, 7 tables, 1 map.
Dwyer, J. P.; Siemon, E. J., III; Adovasio, J. M.; and Carlisle, R. C. "Phase I Cultural Resource Management Report for the Chelyan Bridge Replacement Project, Kanawha County, West Virginia." A Report Prepared by the Cultural Resource Management Program, Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, for the West Virginia Department of Highways, Environmental Services Division. (1986).
Dwyer, J. P.; Vento, F. J.; Jones, J. R.; Carlisle, R. C.; and Adovasio, J. M. "A Phase I and II Cultural Resource Management Assessment of Two Subareas Within the Batesville Discharge Rights-of-Way, Butler County, Ohio." A Report Prepared by the Cultural Resource Management Program, Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh for Texas Eastern Gas Pipeline Company, Houston, Texas.
East, T. C.3; Adovasio, J. M.; Johnson, W. C.; Donahue, J.; and Jorstad, T. "Archaeological Investigations at 36BK549, Berks County, Pennsylvania." A Report Prepared by the Cultural Resource Management Program, Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh for Texas Eastern Gas Pipeline Company, Houston, Texas.
Engard, Ron. "Dance and Power in Bafut (Cameroon)." In The Creativity of Power: Essays in Ritual and Authority in African Societies. Edited by Ivan Karp and William Arens. (1987). Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Erhardt, David, and Firnhaber, Natalie. "Analysis and Identification of Oils in Hawaiian Tapa Cloth." In Recent Advances in the Conservation and Analysis of Artifacts (1987). London, England: Summer Schools Press, University of London, Institute of Archaeology.
Ewers, John. "Charlie Russell's Indians." Montana, Magazine of Western History (Summer 1987).
Fitzhugh, William W. "The Nulliak Pendants and Their Relation to Spiritual Traditions in Northeast Prehistory." Arctic Anthropology 22 (2) (1985): 87-109.
"Persistence and Change." In Art and Ideology in Western Alaska Eskimo Cultures, in Late Prehistoric Development of Alaska's Native Peoples. Edited by Robert D. Shaw, Roger Herritt, and Don E. Dumond. Alaska
Historical Commission, Studies in History (190)(1986): 124-165. Anchorage.

<<<Page: 222>>>

Fitzhugh, William W. "Social Science." Chapter IV. D. In U.S. Arctic Research Plan. Interagency Arctic Research Policy Committee (1987): 235-287. Washington, D. C.: National Science Foundation, Division of Polar Programs.
Fitzhugh, William W., and Tuck, James A., Jr. "Paleo-Eskimo Traditions in Newfoundland and Labrador: A Reappraisal." In Paleo-Eskimo Traditions in Newfoundland and Labrador. Edited by James A. Tuck, Jr. (1987). St. John's, Newfoundland: Memorial University Studies in Archaeology, l. Institute of Archaeology, Memorial University.
Fleming, Paula Richardson, and Luskey, Judith. The North American Indians in Early Photographs (1986). New York: Harper and Row.
Fowler, Don. "History of Research." In Great Basin. Edited by Warren L.
d' Azevedo. Handbook of North American Indians 11 (1986): 15-30. General Editor, W. Sturtevant, Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution.
Foreword. In The Smithsonian Book of North American Indians Before the Coming of Europeans by P. Koppers and Editors of Smithsonian Books. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Books."Uses of the Past. Archaeology in the Service of the State." American Antiquity 52 (2): 229-248.Myself in the Water. The Photographs of Jack Hillers. 1871-1900. Wasnington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Fowler, Don, and Fowler, C. S. "Edward Sapir, Tony Tillohash and Southern
Paiute Studies." In New Perspectives in Language, Culture and Personality. Studies in the History of the Language Sciences. Edited by W. Cowan, M. K. Foster and K. Koerner. (41): 41-65. Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Co.
Fowler, Don, and Irwin-Williams, C. (co-editor) SAA Regional Conferences: Summary Report. Washington, D.C.: Society for American Archaeology.
Fowler, Don, and Madsen, D. B. "Prehistory of Southeastern Area." In Great Basin. Edited by Warren L. d'Azevedo. Handbook of North American Indians AdenCOB6) ¢:0.1175—182
Frison, George C. "Bison Procurement and Lithic Analysis at the Horner Paleoindian Site, Park County, Wyoming, U.S.A." Quaternary Research (Selected Papers of the XI INQUA Congress) (1986). Edited by I. P. Kartashov and K. V. Nikiforova, Moscow, U.S.S.R. (In Russian).
Frison, George C.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Carlisle, Ronald C. "Coiled Basketry fom Northern Wyoming." Plains Anthropologist 31 (112): 163-168.
Frison, George C., and Todd, Lawrence C. The Horner Site: Type Site of the Cody Cultural Complex (1987). Academic Press.
"Old World Archaeology and Archaeologists from a New World Perspective." In The Pleistocene Old World: Regional Perspectives. Edited by Old Soffer. (1987): 5-14. New York: Plenum Press.
Fritz, Gayle J. "Desiccated Botanical Remains from Three Bluffshelter Sites in the Pine Mountain Project Area, Crawford County, Arkansas." In Contributions to Ozark Prehistory. Edited by George Sabo III. (1986): 80-97. Arkansas Archeological Survey Research Series 27.
Fritz, Gayle J. "Mounds in Northwest Arkansas: A More Positive Approach to Late Prehistory in the Ozarks." In Contributions to Ozark Prehistory. Edited by George Sabo III. (1986): 49-54. Arkansas Archeological Survey Research Series 27.
"Maize." In Appendix 3 of French-Indian Interaction at_an 18th Century Frontier Post: The Roseborough Lake Site, Bowie County, Texas, by Kathleen
Gilmore. North Texas State University Contributions in Archeology (3)(1986): 131-134. Institute of Applied Science.
ie Lal wn

<<<Page: 223>>>

Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Sapir's Comparative Method." In New Perspectives in Language, Culture, and Personality. Edited by William Cowan, Michael K. Foster, and Konrad Koerner. (1986): 191-214. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
"Leonard Bloomfield's Descriptive and Comparative Studies of Algonquian." Historiographia Linguistica 14 (1-2)(1987): 179-217. Griffin, James B. "The Tchula Period in the Mississippi Valley." In The Tchula
Period in the Mid-South and Lower Mississippi Valley. Edited by David H. Dye and Ronald C. Brister. Proceedings of the 1982 Mid-South Archaeological Conference. (1986): 40-43. Jackson: Mississippi Department of Archives and History.
"Comments on the Kampsville Early Woodland Conference." In Early Woodland Archeology. Edited by Kenneth B. Farnsworth and Thomas E. Emerson. Kampsville Seminars in Archeology (2)(1986). Kampsville, Illinois: Center for American Archeology Press.
Gundy, B. M.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Pedler, D. R. "Phase I Archaeological Investigations at the Michael J. Kriwin Dam and Reservoir, Portage County, Ohio." (1987). Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: A Report Prepared by the Cultural Resource Management Program, Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh for Gannett Fleming Water Resources Engineering, Inc.
Hardin, Kris. "Rock-A-Bye Baby..." In Generations. Edited by Anna Cohn, Lucinda Leach and Sheila Kitzinger. (1987). New York: Pantheon.
"Aesthetics and the Cultural Whole: A Study of Kono Dance Occasions."
Empirical Studies of the Arts. (1987).
Heald, Suzette. "Witches and Thieves: Deviant Motivations in Gisu Society." Man n.s. 21 (1)(1986): 65-78.
"The Ritual Use of Violence: Circumcision Among the Gisu of Uganda."
In The Anthropology of Violence. Edited by D. Riches. (1986). Oxford:
Basil Blackwell.
"Mafias in Africa: The Rise of Drinking Companies and Vigilante Groups in Bugisu District, Uganda." Africa 56 (4)(1986): 446-467.
Hesse, Brian. "Animal use at Tel Migne-Ekron in the Bronze Age and Iron Age."
Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research (264)(1986): 17-27. "Buffer Resources and Animal Domestication in Prehistoric Northern
Chile." Archeozoologie (1)(1986): 73-85. Melanges.
"Ancient Herds and Pack Trains in the Chilean Andes." Chilean
University Life 22 (1987): 8-9.
Hesse, Brian and Wapnish, Paula. "Appendix F--Faunal Remains." In Tel
Migne-Ekron, Report of the 1984 Excavation, Field INE/SE by Ann E. Killebrew. 1986): 207-230. Jerusalem: W. F. Albright Institute of Archaeological Research.
"Faunal Remains." In Ch. XVII, The Roman Port and Fishery of Cosa, by A. M. CcCann, et al. (1987): 315-317. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Hochrein, M. J.; Siemon, E. J., III; Carlisle, R. C.; and Adovasio, J. M. "Phase I Cultural Resource Management Report, Mid-Centre County Authority, Unionville Sanitary Sewer Extension, Centre County, Pennsylvania." (1986). Pennsylvania: A Report Prepared by CRM Associates, Pittsburgh, for BCM Eastern, Inc., State College.
Houchins, Chang-su. "Miguk sdo on Choson yumul (The Return from America of Yi
Dynasty Regalia)." Saem i kip'un mul (The Fountainhead). (July 1987):
54-59. Seoul.

<<<Page: 224>>>

Kaeppler, Adrienne L. "Cultural Analysis, Linguistic Analogies, and the Study of Dance in Anthropological Perspective." In Explorations in Ethnomusicology: Essays in Honor of David P. McAllester. Edited by Charlotte J. Frisbie. Detroit Monographs in Musicology (9)(1986): 25-33.
"Concerning a Maori Shell Trumpet from Cook's Second Voyage and Some
Implications." Journal of the Polynesian Society 96 (2)(1987).
"Pacific Festivals and Ethnic Identity." In Time Out of Time: Essays
on the Festival. Edited by Alessandro Falassi. (1987): 162-170.
Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press.
"Polynesian Religion: Mythic Themes." The Encyclopedia of Religion 11 (1987): 432-435. New York: Macmillan.
Karp, Ivan. "Anthropology." In Encyclopedic Dictionary of Semiotics (1986). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter."Ivan Karp, Perspective and Comments on Objects." In Perspectives on African Art (1986): 31-97. New York: Center for African Art and Harry Abrams Publishing Co.Review Essay: Oedipus and Job in West African Religions, by Meyer Fortes with an essay by Robin Horton. International Journal of African Historical Studies (1986): 715-720. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press."Guest Editorial: Why Real Ethnographies?" In Cultural Anthropology, by Emily Schultz and Robert Lavend. (1987): 60-63. Boston: West Publishing Co.
"Preface" to the reprinted edition of Lugbara Religion by John Middleton (1987): vii-xiii. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Explorations in African Systems of Thought. Edited by Ivan Karp and Charles Bird. (1987). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
(Reprint of 1980 with a new preface by Karp).
"Preface" to the reprinted edition of Explorations in African Systems of
Thought. Edited by Ivan Karp and Charles Bird. (1987). Wasnington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Kaupp, P. Ann. Anthro-Notes 8 (3); 9 (1); 9 (2). Smithsonian Publications for Teachers.
Kelley, Jennifer, and Angel, J. Lawrence. "Stresses of Slavery." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 74 (2)(October 1987).
Killeen, Victoria, and Owsley, Douglas W. "Port Hudson Excavation Confederate Mystery Unearthed." Baton Rouge Magazine (August 1987): 47-49, 77.
Loring, Steven, and Cox, Steven. "The Postville Pentecostal Groswater Site, Kaipokok Bay, Labrador." In Palaeo-Eskimo Cultures in Newfoundland, Labrador and Ungava. Reports in Archaeology (1)(1987): 65-93. St. Johns: Memorial University of Newfoundland.
Maloney, Patricia D. "A Matter of Life or Death." Ceramics Monthly 35 (6) (1987): 75-79. eae
Manhein, Mary H., and Owsley, Douglas W. "Archaeological Testing of the Horton Family Cemetery." Tennessee Anthropological Association Newsletter. 2 (2)(1987): 1-3.
Manhein, Mary H.; Owsley, Douglas W.; Marks, Murray K.; and Whitmer, Ann M. "Jackson Digs up its Past." LSU Magazine 63 (2)(1987): 32-35, 41-42.
Meggers, Betty J. "Archaeology: South America." Handbook of Latin American Studies (47)(1987): 64-96. Austin: University of Texas Press.
"The Early History of Man in Amazonia." In Biogeography and Quaternary
Histo in Tropical America. Edited by T. C. Whitmore and G. T. Prance. S87) 151-174. Oxford: Clarendon Press.

<<<Page: 225>>>

Merrill, William. "The Raramuri Stereotype of Dreams." In The Anthropolo and Psychology of Dreaming. Edited by Barbara Tedlock. (1986). Cambridge University Press.
Milanich, Jerald T. "Tracing the Route of Hernando de Soto through Florida."
In Essays in Florida History (1987). Tampa: Florida Endowment for the
Humanities.
"Hernando de Soto and Spain's Exploration of Florida, 1539-40." In
Spanish Pathways in Florida (1987). Tampa: Florida Endowment for the Humanities.
Milanich, Jerald T., and Saunders, Rebecca. "The Spanish Castillo and the Franciscan Doctrine of Santa Catalina at Santa Maria, Amelia Island,
Florida (8-Na-41)." Florida State Museum Miscellaneous Project Report Series (20)( 1986).
Mintz, Sidney W. "Eating and Being Human." Faces 3 (3): 4-9.
"Scupting with Sugar." Faces 3 (3): 34-36.
"The Role of the Tropical Plantation in the Birth of the Modern World." Proceedings of the First World Plantation Conference. pp. 17-25. Louisiana State University Publications.
. “American Eating Habits and Food Choices." Journal of Gastronomy 2 (3): 15-22."Cultivo y cultura: havia una antropologia de la produccion en
plantaciones." In La heterodoxia recuperada: en torno a Angel Palerm. Edited by S. Glantz. Pages 461-471.
. "Bitterer Zucker." Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. (1 July 1987): 3-4.
Nagle, Christopher L. "Flaked Stone Procurement and Distribution in Dorset Culture Sites Along the Labrador Coast." In Palaeo-Eskimo Cultures in Newfoundland, Labrador and Ungava. Reports in Archaeology. (1)(1987). Memorial University of Newfoundland.
Orser, Charles E.; Owsley, Douglas W.; and Shenkel, J. Richard. "Gaining Access to New Orleans' First Cemetery." Journal of Field Archaeology 13 (3)(1986): 342-345.
Ortner, Donald J. “Archaeological Evidence of Polyarticular Inflammatory Arthritides in North America." In Art, History and Antiquity of Rheumatic Diseases. Edited by Thierry Apperboon. 1987): 92-96, 124-125, 128. Brussels: Elsevier Librico.
Owsley, Douglas W. "Bioarchaeological Testing of New Orleans' Cemeteries." Tennessee Anthropological Association Newsletter 11 (5)(1986): 7-12.
Owsley, Douglas W., and Marks, Murray K. "The Role of the Forensic Anthropologist in Medico-Legal Investigations." Southern Association of Forensic Scientists Newsletter 15 (3)(1987): 3-7.
Potts, Richard. '"Reconstructions of Early Hominid Socioecology: A Critique of Primate Models." The Evolution of Human Behavior: Primate Models. Edited by Warren G. Kinzey. (1987): 28-47. State University of New York Press.
Quinn, A.; Adovasio, J. M.; Carlisle, R. C.; and Johnson, W. C. "Interim Report on Phase I Cultural Resource Management Reconnaissance at Grays Landing, Fayette County, Pennsylvania." A Report Prepared by the Cultural Resource Management Program, Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, for Gannett Fleming Water Resources Engineering, Inc., Harrisburg, Pannsylvania. (1986).
Quinn, A.; Adovasio, J. M.; Johnson, W. C.; Carlisle, R. C.; and Pedlar, D. R. "Phase I Archaeological Investigations at Grays Landing, Fayette County, Pennsylvania." A Report Prepared by the Cultural Resource Management Program, Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh for Gannett
Fleming Water Resources Engineering, Inc., Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. (1987).

<<<Page: 226>>>

Ragsdale, B. D., and Josselson, A. R. "Winchester Silvertip Ammunition A Study in Ordnance Gelatin." Journal of Forensic Science 31 (1986): 855-868.
Ragsdale, B. D., and Sweet, D. E. "Benign Antecedents of Malignancy (in the Skeleton)." Chapter 22 In Patholo of Incipient Neoplasia. Edited by D. Henson and J. Albores-Saavedra. (1586): 381-423. W. B. Saunders Co.
Rose, Carolyn L. "The Biodeterioration of Museum Objects and Methods of Control
Introduction." Biodeterioration 6 (1986). London: CAB International. "Ethical and Practical Consideration in Conserving Ethnographic Museum
Objects." 9th International S osium on Ethnology: The Conservation of Ethnographic Objects in Museums. (1987). Osaha: National Museum of Ethnology.
Schmidt, Robert G.; Payas, Alba; Gumiel, Pablo; and D'Agostino, J. P. "The Saxapahaw, North Carolina, Gold Occurrences Search for a Deposit Model and New Remote Sensing Techniques." In USGS Research on Mineral Resources1987 Program and Abstracts. Edited by J. S. Sachs. (U. S. Geological Survey Circular 995)(1987): 62-63.
Schmidt, Robert G., and Koslow, M. H. "Preliminary Map Showing the Occurrence of Siliceous Rocks in Central North Carolina Derived from Enhanced Principal Component Landsat Images." U.S. Geological Survey (1986). Map MF 1817.
Selig, Ruth 0. "Anthropology for Wyoming Teachers." In Practicing Anthropology. 8 (2)(1986): 16-17, 21.
"Talking with Teachers." In AnthroNotes, Natural History Newsletter for
Teachers, 9 (2)(1987): 13-14.
AnthroNotes, Natural History Newsletter for Teachers. Edited by Ann Kaupp, Ruth 0. Selig, Alison S. Brooks and JoAnne Lanouette. (1986-1987): 8 (3); 9 (1); 9 (2). Each issue 15 pages.
Selig, Ruth 0., and Higgins, Patricia J. (guest editors). Practicing Anthropology 8 (2): 35 pages. Special issue devoted to "Anthroplogy and Precollege Education."
"Practicing Anthropology in Precollege Education." Introduction to
Practicing Anthropology, 8 (2)(1987): 2.
"For Further Reading." Practicing Anthropology 8 (2)(1986): 30.
Shay, Wendy. "Introduction to the Human Studies Film Archives." Commission on Visual Anthropology Newsletter. (January 1987): 25-28.
Siemon, E. J. III; Dwyer, J. P.; Carlisle, R. C.; and Adovasio, J. M. (with a section by W. C. Johnson). "Phase I Cultural Resource Management Assessment of the Proposed Thorn Run/Parkway West Interchange Moon Township, Allegheny County, Pennsylvania." A Report Prepared by CRM Associates, Pittsburgh, for the Thorn Run Interchange Group.
Smith, Bruce D. "The Independent Domestication of Indigenous Seed-Bearing Plants in Eastern North America." In Emergent Horticultural Economies of the Eastern Woodlands. Edited by William Keegan. Occasional Paper (7)(1987). Southern Illinois University Center for Archaeological Investigations.
Smith, Bruce D., and Cowan, C. W. "Domesticated Chenopodium in Prehistoric Eastern North America: New Accelerator Dates from Eastern Kentucky." American Antiquity (1987): 355-357.
Stanford, Dennis J. "Geoarchaeology." In Society for Archaeological Sciences Newsletter. 10 (3): 1. Stanford, Dennis J., and Bradley, Bruce. "The Claypool Study." In Horner Site:
The Type Site of the Cody Cultural Complex. Edited by George Frison and Lawrence Todd. (1987): 405-4355. New York: Academic Press.

<<<Page: 227>>>

Stanford, Dennis J.; Haynes, C. Vance; Saunders, Jeff; and Agogino, George. "Blackwater Draw Locality 1: History, Current Research and
Interpretations." In Guidebook to the Archaeological Geology of Classic Paleoindian Sites on the Southern High Plains, Texas and New Mexico.
Edited by Vance T. Holliday. (1986): 82-113. College Station, Texas: Texas A&M University Press.
Taylor, Paul M. "Plant and Animal Nomenclature in the Tobelorese Language." Halmahera dan Raja Ampat sebagai Kesatuan Majemul: Studi-studi Terhada suatu Daerah Transisi. Edited by E. K. M. Masinambow. (Reprinted TOE 41-76. Jakarta: KELNAS-LIPI 1983.
"Maluku Studies." Antara Kita: Bulletin of the Indonesian
Studies Committee. (25)(August 1986): 14.
Tosi, Maurizio. "Early Maritime Cultures of the Arabian Ocean." In Shaykha Haya. Edited by A. al-Khalifa and M. Rice. Bahrain Through the Ages.
(1986): 94-107. London.
"Ot Shari-i Sohte do Moendjo-Daro." (1986): 57-72. Nauka i
Celovestvo. Moskva.
"Dalla "Molle" Shari-i Sokhta alla "Rigida" Moenjodaro, Ovvero il Consiglio Disatteso." In Studi in Onore diS. M. Puglisi. Edited by M. Liverani, A. Palmieri, and A. Peroni. (1986): 277-289. Roma.
"The Emerging Picture of Prehistoric Arabia." Annual Review of
Anthropology. 15 (1986): 461-490.
"The Archaeology of Early States in Middle Asia." Oriens Antiquus. 25
(1986): 153-87.
Tosi, Maurizio, and Mariania, L. "L'Universo Familiare a Shari-Sokhta Attraverso le Attivita Domestiche e le Strutture Residenziali." In Orientalia I. Tucci Memoriae Dicata. Edited by G. Gnoli, and L. Lanciotti. (1987): 853-879. Roma.
Trousdale, William. The British in Afghanistan 1878-80. (1986): vii+ 169.
Washington, D. C.
"'tA Person of Desperate Fortunes': On the Evaluation of Historical
Sources." Bulletin of the Asia Institute. 1 (1987): 139-143.
Ubelaker, Douglas H. “Human Skeletal Remains from the Thorn Mounds (46MG78 and 46MG79)." West Virginia Archeologist. 38 (2)(1986): 51-53. 1986.
Ubelaker, Douglas H., and Damadio, Stephanie H. "Human Remains from the Isinglass Mound (46MS54)." West Virginia Archeologist. 38 (2)(1986): 53-54.
Van Beek, Gus W. "Arch and Vault in the Near East." Scientific American. 257 (1)(July 1987): 96-103.
Wapnish, Paula, and Brian Hesse. "Appendix F-Faunal Remains." In Tel Migne-Ekron. Report of the 1984 Excavations, Field III SE, by B. M. Gittlen. (1986): 227-250. Jerusalem: W. F. Albright Institute of
Archaeological Research.
"Faunal Remains." Chapter XVII. Human and Faunal Remains. In The Roman
Port and Fishery of Cosa, by A. M. McCann, et al. (1987): 315-317. Princeton University Press.
Wedel, Mildred. "Peering at the Ioway Indians Through the Mist of Time:
1650-circa 1700." Journal of the Iowa Archeological Society 33 (1986): 1-74.
Wedel, Waldo R. "History of the Princeton and Smithsonian Investigations at the Horner Site." In The Horner Site: The Type Site of the Cody Cultural Complex. Edited by George C. Frison and Lawrence C. Todd. GEE 19-38. Orlando: The Academic Press.
Wintle, Pamela, and Shay, Wendy. Human Studies Film Archives: Guide to the Collections. 1987.
rs) 3 19)

<<<Page: 228>>>

Wright, Rita "The Frontiers of Prehistoric Baluchistan and the Development of the Indus Civilization." In Polities and Partitions. Human Boundaries and the Growth of Complex Societies. Edited by Kathryn Maurer Trinkaus. Arizona State University Anthropological Research Papers. (37) (1987): 61-82.
"Comment on Zagarell's 'Trade, Women, Class and Society in Ancient
Western Asia.'" Current Anthropology. 27 (5): 425.
"The Boundaries of Technology and Stylistic Change." In Ceramics and
Civilization. Edited by W. David Kingery. The American Ceramic Society TI (1986): 5-25. Columbus, Ohio.
Zeder, Melinda. "The Equids from Tal-e Malyan." In Equids of the Old World. Edited by R. H. Meadow and H.-P. Uerpmann. Biehefte zum Tubinger Atlas des Vorderern Orients. (1986): 366-413. Tubingin: University of Tubingen.
"Urbanism and Animal Distribution in Southwest Highland Iran, 3400-1500
BC." Ph.D. Dissertation, Department of Anthropology, University of
Michigan. (1985).
Department of Botany
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Warning, U.; Grenz, M.; Chau-thi, T. V.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Sesquiterpenes with New Carbon Skeletons, Furoerephilanes, Seco-eremophilanes and Other Constituents from Argentinian
Senecio Species." Bulletin des Societes Chimiques Belges. 95 (9-10)(1986): 707-736.
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Neue Sesquiterpenlacton Und Andere Inhaltsstoffe Aus Stevia mercedensis und Stevia achalensis." Liebigs Annalen der Chemie. (1986): 799-813.
Davis, S.; Droop, S. J. M.; Gregerson, P.; Henson, L.; Leon, C.; Lamlein Villa-Lobos, J.; Synge, H.; and Zantovska, J. Plants In Danger. What Do We Know? Cambridge: International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. (1986).
DeFilipps, R. A. "Topics in the Succulent Plant Trade: Euphorbias." In Conservation and Commerce of Cacti and Other Succulents. Edited by D. Fuller and S. Fitzgerald. (1987): 11-31. Washington, D. C.: World Wildlife Fund TRAFFIC (U.S.A.).
Demoulin, V., and Nicolson, Dan H. "Report of The Special Committee For Orthography with Proposals (171-198) to Amend The Code." Taxon 35 (1986): 794-803.
Elix, J. A., and Hale, M. E. "Canomaculina, Myelochroa, Parmelinella, Parmelinopsis and Parmotremopsis, Five New Genera in the Parmeliaceae (Lichenized Ascomycotina)." Mycotaxon 29 (1987): 233-244.
Ellmauerer, E.; Pathak, V. P.; Jakupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F., Dominguez, X. A.; King, R. M.3; and Robinson, H. "6B-lactonized Xanthanolides from Ratibida Species." Phytochemistry 26 (1)(1987): 159-163.
Faden, Robert B., and Hunt, D. R. "Reunion of Phaeosphaerion and Commelinopsis with Commelina." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 74 (1) (1987): 121-122.
Fosberg, F. R. "Biodiversity." Environmental Awareness. 9 ered ane —___"The Genus Trukia Kanehira (Rubiaceae).” Phytologia 62 (3)(1987):"A New Pisonia (Nyctaginaceae) from the Hawaiian Islands." Phytologia 62 (1987): 177-178.
tv ie) H

<<<Page: 229>>>

Fosberg, F. R. "Bobaea platypes Fosberg, New Species (Rubiaceae) from Maui, Hawaiian Islands." Phytologia 63 (3)(1987): 179-180.
"New Nomenclatural Combinations for Galapagos Plant Species." Phytologia. 62 (3)(1987): 181-183. . "Artificial Diversity." Environmental Conservation. 14 (1987): 74.
Fredericq, S., and Norris, J. N. "The Structure and Reproduction of Dasya haitiana sp. nov. (Dasyaceae, Rhodophyta) from the Caribbean Sea." Phycologia 25 (2)(1986): 185-196.
Goldberg, Aaron. "Classification, Evolution, and Phylogeny of the Families of Dicotyledons." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 58 (1986). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Graham, A.; Nowicke, J. W.; Skvarla, J. J.; Graham, S. A.; Patel, V.; and Lee, S. "Palynology and Systematics of the Lythraceae. II. Genera Haitia through Peplis." American Journal Botany 74 (1987): 829-850.
Gregerson, P. R., and DeFilipps, R. "United States." In Plants in Danger: What Do We Know? (1986): 381-394. By S. D. Davis, et al. Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, England: IUCN.
Griffith, P. C.; Cubit, J. D.; Adey, W. H.; and Norris, J. N. "Computer— Automated Flow Respirometry: Metabolism Measurements on a Coral Reef Flat and in a Microcosm." Linmology and Oceanography 32 (2)(1987): 442-451.
Hale, Mason E. "New Species of the Lichen Genus Xanthoparmelia from Southern Africa (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Mycotaxon 27 (1986): 563-610.
'"Lichens." In McGraw-Hill Yearbook of Science and Technology 1987 (1987): 269-271. New York: McGraw-Hill.
. “Additions to the Xanthoparmelia Flora of Southern Africa (Lichenized Ascomycotina: penieticcenelct Mycotaxon 29 (1987): 251-266.
Hale, Mason E. "A Monograph of the Lichen Genus Parmelia Sensu Stricto (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 66 (1987). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Epilithic Lichens in the Beacon Sandstone Formation, Victoria Land, Antarctica." Lichenologist 19 (1987): 269-287.
Hernandez, H., and Nicolson, Dan H. "Proposal to Amend the Conservation of 3444 Calliandra (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae)." Taxon 35 (1986): 747-748. Jakupovic, J.; Banerjee, S.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "New Diterpenes from Chiliotrichium rosmarinifolium and Nardophyllum lanatun."
Tetrahedron 42 (5)(1986): 1305-1313.
Jakupovic, J.; Baruah, R. N.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "New Types of Germacranolides from Austroliabum candidum." Planta Medica 1986 (3)(1986): 204-206. Ss See GALES a pe
Jakupovic, J.; Boeker, R.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Humulene Derivatives from Heterotheca villosa." Phytochemistry 26 (2)(1987): 445-448.
Jakupovic, J.; Pathak, V. P.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "New Pseudoguaianolides from Gaillardia megapotamica var. scabiosoides." Planta Medica 1986 (4)(1986): 331-332.
« "Obliqin Derivatives and other Constituents from Australian Helichrysum Species." Phytochemistry 26 (3)(1987): 803-807.
Jakupovic, J.; Schmeda-Hirschmann, G.; Schuster, A.; Zdero, C.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; Robinson, H.; and Pickardt, J. "Hirsutinolides, Glaucolides and Sesquiterpene Lactone from Vernonia Species." Phytochemistry 25 (1) (1986): 145-158.
Jakupovic, J.; Schuster, A.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "New Lignans and Isobutylamides from Heiopsis buphthalmoides." Planta Medica 1986 (1)(1986): 18-20.
tw vv vv

<<<Page: 230>>>

Kennedy, H., and Nicolson, Dan H. "Nomenclatural Notes on Central American Marantaceae." Brittonia 39 (1987): 139-140.
Lewis, J. L., and Norris, J. N. "A History and Annotated Account of the Benthic Marine Algae of Taiwan." Smithsonian Contributions to Marine Sciences 29 (1987). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Lewis, S. M.; Norris, J. N.; and Searles, R. B. "The Regulation of Morphological Plasticity in Tropical Reef Algae by Herbivory." Ecology 68 (3) (1987): 636-641.
Littler, D. S., and Littler, M. M. "The Unnoticed Reef Builders." Ocean Realm (1986): 80-83.
Littler, M. M.; Littler, D. S.; Blair, S. M.; Norris, J. N. “Deepwater Plant Communities from An Uncharted Seamount off San Salvador Island, Bahamas: Distribution, Abundance, and Primary Productivity." Deep-Sea Research 43 (7)(1986): 881-892.
Littler, M. M.; Littler, D. S.; and Lapointe, B. E. "Baseline Studies of Herbivory and Eutrophication on Dominant Reef Communities of Looe Key National Marine Sanctuary." NOAA Technical Memoranda Series (1986) NOS MEMD 1.
Littler, M. M.; Littler, D. S.; and Taylor, P. R. "Animal-Plant Defense Associations: Effects on the Distribution and Abundance of Tropical Reef Macrophytes." Journal Experimental Marine Biology Ecology 105 (1987): 107-121.
McAlpin, B., and Lellinger, D. B. "An Annual, Tuber-Forming Selaginella from Pcia. Puntarenas, Costa Rica." Brenesia 24 (1986): 409-411.
Nicolson, Dan H. "Two New Combinations in Chromolaena (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae) For Dominica." Phytologia 62 (1987): 164.
. "Assignment of Numbers To Overlooked Conservation Proposals." Taxon 36 (1987): 558.
Nicolson, Dan H., and Robyns, A. "A Proposal To Conserve 5024a Bombacopsis Against Pochota (Bombacaceae)." Taxon 36 (1987): 655-656.
Nicolson, Dan H., and Suresh, C. R. "Proposal to Conserve 8352a Canthium Lan. (Rubiaceae)." Taxon 35 (1986): 607.
Read, R. W. "Icones Bromeliacearum IV: Aechmea paniculigera." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 37 (1)(1987): 8-10, figs. 3-5.
Read, R. W.; Zanoni, T. A.; and Mejia, M. "Reinhardtia paiewonskiana (Palmae), A New Species for the West Indies." Brittonia 39 (1) (1987): 20-25, figs. 1-5.
Robinson, H., and Funk, V. A. "A Phylogenetic Analysis of Leiboldia, Lepidonia, and a New Genus Stramentopappus (Vernonieae: Asteraceae)." Botanische
Jahrblcher fiir Systematik Pflanzengeschichte und Pflanzengeographie 108 (1987): 213-228.
Robinson, H., and Kahn, B. "Trinervate Leaves, Yellow Flowers, Tailed Anthers, and Pollen Variation in Distephanus Cassini (Vernonieae: Asteraceae) ." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (3)(1986): 493-501.
Robinson, H., and Marticorena, C. "Palynological Study of the Liabeae (Asteraceae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 64 (1986). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Shetler, Stanwyn G. "Prefatory Comments." Section III, Biological Survey Information. In Foundations for a National Biological Survey. Edited by Ke Chung Kim and Lloyd Knutson. (1986): 87-89. Lawrence, Kansas:
Association of Systematics Collections, University of Kansas, 215 pp.
5 Portraits of Nature--Paintings by Robert Bateman. (1986): 160 pp.
Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. (Illustrated by Robert
Bateman) .

<<<Page: 231>>>

Shetler, Stanwyn G. "Mapping the Global Gardens." A Review of Floristic Regions of the World, by Armen Takhtajan. Nature 328 (23 July 1987): 304.
Shetler, Stanwyn G., and Morin, Nancy R. "Seed Morphology in North American Campanulaceae." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 73 (1986): 653-688.
Skog, Laurence E. "Sinningia reitzii, Now Validly Published." The Gloxinian 37 (1)(1987): 34-35. Pea apEong Tor"New Species of Gesneriaceae from Tropical America." Opera Botanica 92 (1987): 225-233.
Skog, Laurence E., and Wetzel, H. M. "Translationes Operum Sinensium de Gesneriaceis--I." Contributions from the New York Botanical Garden 16 (1986): 1-131.
Smith, Lyman B. "An Unusual Dyckia." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 37 lassen 451, 156; £460 3. ee
"Morren's Paintings 8: Aechmea nudicaulis var. rosea." Journal of the
Bromeliad Society 37 (4)(1987): 152, fig. 4.
« "Revision of the Guayana Highland Bromeliaceae." Annals of the Missouri
Botanical Garden 73 (4)(1987): 689-721, Figs. 1-30.
Smith, Lyman B.; Lebrun, J.-P.; Stork, A. L.; and Wuest, J. "Un Xerophyta (Velloziaceae) Nouveau d'Ethiopie Meridional." Bulletin du Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle (Paris) Series 4, Volume 8, Section B, Adansonia, (3)(1986): 297-300, plates 1, 2.
Smith, Lyman B., and Wasshausen, Dieter C. "Begoniaceae." In Flora of Ecuador. Edited by Gunnar Harling and Lennart Andersson. (1987): 1-66. Stockholm: Swedish Research Council.
Soderstrom, T. R. "Bamboo Systematics: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow." Journal American Bamboo Society. 6 (1-4)(1987): 4-16.
Soderstrom, T. R.; Edelman, D. K.; and Deitzer, G. F. "Bamboo Introduction and Research in Puerto Rico." Journal American Bamboo Society 6 (1-4) (1987): 43-57.
"Flowering Physiology of Bamboo in Puerto Rico." Journal American Bamboo Society 6 (1-4)(1987): 36-42.
Soderstrom, T. R.; Ellis, R. P.; and Judziewicz, E. J. "The Phareae and Streptogyneae (Poaceae) of Sri Lanka: A Morphological-Anatomical Study." Smithsonian Contributions To Botany 65 (1987). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Soderstrom, T. R., and Londono, X. "Two New Genera of Brazilian Bamboos Related To Guadua (Poaceae Bambusoideae Bambuseae)." American Journal Society 74 (1)(1987): 27-39.
Soderstrom, T. R., and Zuloaga, F. O. "Olyra Holttumiana, a New Species from Panama (Gramineae: Bambusoideae)." Kew Bulletin 43 (3)(1986): 721-724.
Villa-Lobos, J. "Botanic Gardens Secretariat." Biological Conservation Newsletter 47 (1987): 1.
Wasshausen, Dieter C. "New and Interesting Species of Justicia (Acanthaceae) from Amazonia." Suplemento, Acta Amazonica 14 (1 /2)(1984): 145-151.
"New and Interesting Species of Acanthaceae from Ecuador." Opera Botanica 92 (1987): 265-275.
Wurdack, J. J. "Notes on Melastomataceae of the Guianas." Brittonia 39 (1987): 159-164.
Zanoni, T. A.3; Mejia, M.; and Read, R. W. "Notas Sobre La Flora de La Isla Espanola. I. Bromeliaceae." Moscosoa 4 (1986): 54-104, figs. 1-9. Zdero, C.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Guaianolide Glucosides
from Helenium donianum." Planta Medica 1986 (1)(1986): 22-24.
"Further 5-Methyl Coumarins and other Constituents from the Subtribe
Mutisiinae." Phytochemistry 25 (2)(1986): 509-516.
fv lied b

<<<Page: 232>>>

Zedro, C.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Diterpene Glycosides and Other Constituents from Argentinian Baccharis Species." Phytochemistry 25 (12)(1986): 2841-2855. «. "A-Isocedren Derivatives, 5-methyl Coumarins and other Constituents from the Subtribe Nassauviinae of the Compositae." Phytochemistry 25 (12)(1986): 2873-2882."Pyrone Derivatives from Podolepis hieracioides and Sesquiterpene Acids from Cassinia longifolia." Phytochemistry 26 (1)(1987): 187-190."Sesquiterpene Lactones from Bedfordia arborescens." Phytochemistry 26 (4) (1987): 1207-1209.
Department of Entomology
Adis, J.; Paarmann, W.; and Erwin, T. L. "On the Natural History and Ecology of Small Terrestrial Ground-beetles (Col.: Bembidiini: Tachyina: Polyderis) from an Amazonian Black-water Inundation Forest (Satz). In Carabid Beetles (1986): 413-427. Edited by den Boer, et al. Gustav Fischer, Stuttgart, New York.
Bloemer, S. R.; Russell, C. L.; and Keirans, J. E. Amblyomma calcartum (Acari: Ixodidae), a Central and South American Bird and Mammal Tick Found in Kentucky, USA." Journal of Medical Entomology 24 (ft )sio4dzs
Carvalho, Jose C. M., and Froeschner, Richard C. "Taxonomic Names Proposed in the Insect Order Heteroptera by Jose Canido de Melo Carvalho from 1943 to January 1985, with Type Depositories." Journal of the New York Entomological Society 95 (2)(1987): 121-124.
Clarke, J. F. Gates. "The Correct Identity of Acleris inana (Robinson) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 89 (1)(1987): 175-176.
Clifford, C. M., and Keirans, J. E. "Glen Milton Kohls, 1905-1986 (Obituary) ." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 89 (2) (1987): 376-384.
Coddington, J. A. "The Monophyletic Origin of the Orb Web." In Spiders. Webs, Behavior, and Evolution (1986): 319-363. Edited by W. A. Shear. Stanford University Press, Stanford, California.
Davis, Don R. "Neotropical Tineidae, III: The Geographic Origins and Systematic Relationships of Two Species Questionably Attributed to the Americas (Lepidoptera) ." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 88 (4)(1987): 734-739.
"Neotropical Tineidae, IV: Three New Acrolophus Species from Cuba and
the Rediscovery of Acrolophus niveipunctatus Walsingham (Lepidoptera) ."
Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 89 (2)(1987): 275-283."Micropterigidae, Eriocraniidae, Nepticulidae, Tischeriidae, Opostegidae, Incurvariidae, Heliozelidae, Tineidae, Psychidae, Ochsenheimeriidae, Lyonetiidae, Gracillariidae, and Epipyropidae." In The Immature Insects of North America 1 (1987): 38 contributed pages. Edited by F. W. Stehr. Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co.
Davis, Don R., and Frack, D. C. "Acanthopteroctetidae." In The Immature Insects of North America. Edited by F. W. Stehr. 1 (1987): SATs Dubuque, lowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co.
Erwin, Terry L. "Agra, Arboreal Beetles of Neotropical Forests: Feisthameli Group Systematics (Carabidae)." Systematic Entomology 12 (1987): 137-161.
ie tw a7

<<<Page: 233>>>

Evans, H. E.; Finlayson, T.; Middlekauff, W. W.; and McGinley, R. J. " Order Hymenoptera." In Immature Insects. Edited by F. W. Stehr. 1 (1987): 597-704. Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co.
Flint, Oliver S., Jr. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXXVI: The Genus Cochliopsyche in Middle America (Trichoptera: Helicopsychidae) ." Anales del Instituto de Biologia, Universidad Nactional Autonoma de Mexico, Series de Zoologia 56 (1986): 213-216, 5 figures.
"Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXXVI : The Genus Calosopsyche in Central America, with Descriptions of its Immature Stages (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae) ." Proceedings of the 5th International Symposium on Trichoptera (1987): 29-37, 27 figures.
"A Revision of the Genus Leptonema Guerin (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae:
Macronematinae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 450 (1987): 1-193, 798 figures, 31 maps, 1 dendrogram.
Freidberg, A., and Mathis, Wayne N. "Studies of Terelliinae (Diptera: Tephritidae): A Revision of the Genus Neaspilota osten Sacken." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 439 (1986): 1-75.
Geoffroy, Bernard. "The Aedes (Aedimorphus) Domesticus Group (Diptera, Culicidae). I. New Species, Descriptions of Aedes bambiotai and Aedes bancoi." Mosquito Systematics 19 (1)(1987): 100-110.
Harbach, Ralph E. "Culex verutus, a New Species of the Subgenus Culex (Diptera: Culicidae) from Sierra Leone." Mosquito Systematics 18 (3,4)(1986): 216-229.
Harbach, Ralph E.; Jakob, W. L.; and Peyton, E. L. "Recognition of Culex bidens Dyar and Culex interfor Dyar (Diptera: Culicidae) as Separate Species." Mosquito Systematics 18 (2)(1986): 139-144.
Harbach, Ralph E.; Rattanarithikul, Rampa; and Peyton, E. L. "Occurrence of Uranotaenia (Pseudoficalbia) hirsutifemora Peters (Diptera: Culicidae) in Thailand, with Notes on the Larval Stage and Species Affinity." Mosquito Systematics 18 (3,4)(1986): 230-232.
Harrison, Bruce A. "Culex Subgenus Thaiomyia Bram, a Synonym of Culex Subgenus Culiciomyia Theobald (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 19 Gyasa7): 411-116.
"Book Review of "The Anophelines of India." Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 3 (2)(1987): 338-339.
Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. "Jon Lamar Herring, 1922-1985 (Obituary)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 89 (2) (1987): 384-388.
Huang, Yiau-Min. "Aedes (Stegomyia) corneti, a New Species of the Africanus Subgroup (Diptera: Culicidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Societ of Washington 88 (4): 764-776.
Keirans, J. E. "Harry Hoogstraal (1917-1986): A Bibliography." Journal of Medical Entomology 24 (2)(1987): 121-140.
Keirans, J. E., and Barnes, J. K. "Lectotype Designations for the Tick (Acari: Ixodoidea: Ixodidae) Described by Asa Fitch." Journal of the New York Entomological Society 95 (1): 109-113.
Keirans, J. E., and Robbins, R. G. “Amblyomma babirussae Schulze (Acari: Ixodidae): Redescription of the Male, Female, and Nymph, and Description of the Larvae." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 89 (4) (1987): 646-659.
Krombein, Karl V. '"Synonymic Notes on the Bethylidae Described by V. deMotschulsky (Hymenoptera: Aculeata)." Proceedings of the #ntomological
Society of Washington 89 (2)(1987): 356-358."Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XVIII: The Species of
Trachepyris Kieffer (Hymenoptera: Bethylidae: Epyrinae)." Pan-Pacific Entomologist 63 (1987): 135-144, 27 figures.
iS} ie ON

<<<Page: 234>>>

Krombein, Karl V., and van der Vecht, J. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XVII: A Revision of Sri Lankan and South Indian Bembix Fabricius (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Nyssonidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 451 (1987): 1-30, 36 figures.
Lindroth, C. H.; Bangsholt, F.; Baranowski, R.; Erwin, T. L.; Jorum, P.; Landin, B.-0.; Refseth, D.; and Silfverberg, H. The Carabidae (Coleoptera of Fennoscandia and Denmark 2 (1987): 497 pages. Copenhagen: E. J. Brill Publishers.
Mathis, Wayne N., and Deeming, John C. "A Revision of the Shore Fly Genus Elephantinosoma Becker (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington 89 (3)(1987): 562-570. McAllister, C. T., and Keirans, J. K. "Additional Records of Tick (Acari:
Ixodidae, Argasidae) Ingestion by Whiptail Lizards, Genus Cnemidophorus." Texas Journal of Science 39 (3)(1987): 287.
McGinley, R. L., and Michener, C. D. Editors. Melissa. Melittologist's Directory (1986): 45 pages.
Oliver, Jr., J. H.; Keirans, J. E.; Lavender, D. R.; and Hutcheson, H. J. "Txodes affinis Neumann (Acari: Ixodoidae): New Hosts and Distribution Records, Descriptions of Immatures, Seasonal Activities in Georgia, and Laboratory Rearing." Journal of Parasitology 73 (3)(1987): 646-652.
Pegram, R. G.; Clifford, C. M.; Walker, J. B.; and Keirans, J. E. "Clarification of the Rhipicephalus sanguineus Group (Acari: Ixodoidea: Ixodidae). I. R. sulcatus Neumann 1908 and R. turanicus Pomerantsef 1936."
Systematic Parasitology 10 (1987): 3-26. Pegram, R. G.; Keirans, J. E.; Clifford, C. M.; and Walker, J. B.
"Clarification of the Rhipicephalus sanguineus Group (Acari: Ixodoidae: Ixodidae). II. R. sanguineus (Latreille 1806) and Related Species.
Systematic Parasitology 10 (1987): 27-44.
Reinert, John F. "Albuginosus, A New Subgenus of Aedes Meigen (Diptera: Culicidae) Described from the Afrotropical Region." Mosquito Systematics 18 (3,4)(1986): 307-346.
Robbins, R. G. "Evolution and Identification of the New World Hairstreak Butterflies (Lycaenidae: Eumaeini): Eliot's Trichonis Section and Trichonis
Hewitson." Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society 40 (1987): 138-157. Robbins, R. G., and Henson, P. M. "Why Pieris rapae is a Better Name Than
Artogeia rapae (Pieridae)." Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society 40 (1987): 79-92.
Robbins, R. G., and Keirans, J. E. "Ixodes (Ixodiopsis) woodi (Acari: Ixodidae): Description of the Larva and Redescription of the Nymph. Journal of Medical Entomology 24 (3)(1987): 310-314.
Savage, Harry M. "Identification and Location of the Holotype and Paratypes of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) nuneztovari Gabaldon (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 18 (3,4)(1987): 279-283.
Spangler, Paul J. "Laridae Vigors, 1825 (Aves) and Larini LeConte, 1861
(Insecta, Coleoptera): Proposal to Remove the Homonymy. Case 2581."
Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 44 (1)(1987): 25-26.
"A New Species of Water Penny Beetle, Pheneps cursitatus, from Cerro de la Neblina, Venezuela (Coleoptera: Dryopoidea: Psephenidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 89 (2)(1987): 219-225, 15 figures.
"Holcodryops mouli, an Anomalous New Genus and Species of Beetle from
Ecuador (Coleoptera: Dryopidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological
Society of Washington 89 (3)(1987): 626-631.

<<<Page: 235>>>

Spangler, Paul J., and Froeschner, Richard C. "Distributional Data, Illustrations, and Habitat of the South American Water-strider Microvelia ayacuchana (Hemiptera: Veliidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 89 (1)(1987): 167-174, 17 figures.
Spangler, Paul J., and Perkins, Philip D. "A New Water Beetle, Elmoparnus
ordanorum, from Guyana (Coleoptera: Dryopidae)." Coleopterists' Bulletin 40 (4)(1986): 359-365, 8 figures.
Spangler, Paul J., and Santiago, Silvia. "Una Nueva Especies de Coleoptero Acuatico, del Genero Macrelmis Motschulsky de Mexico y Centroamerica (Coleoptera: Elmidae)." Annals Instituto de Biologia Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico 56 (1985), Series Zoologia (1)(1986): 155-158, 3 figures.
Spangler, Paul J., and Santiago, Silvia. "A Revision of the Neotropical Aquatic Beetle Genera Disersus, Pseudodisersus, and Potamophilops (Coleoptera: Elmidae: Larainae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 446 (1987):
i-iv + 1-40, 140 figures.
Ward, Ronald A. "Nomenclatural Status and Some Additions to the Species Listed
in the Publication, New Species of Mosquitoes in the Fauna of the USSR by
A. V. Gutsevich and A. M. Dubitskiy (1981)." Mosquito Systematics 19
(1)(1987): 93-99.
Editor. Translation into English: "A New Species of Mosquitoes in the Fauna of the USSR" by A. V. Gutsevich and A. M. Dubitskiy. Mosquito Systematics 19 (1): 1-92.
Wirth, Willis W.; Mathis, Wayne N.; and Vockeroth, J. R. "Ephydridae. 98." In Manual of the Families and Genera of Nearctic Diptera 2 (1987): 1027-1047. Edited by F. M. McAlpine, et al.
Yunker, C. E.; Keirans, J. E.; Clifford, C. M.; and Easton, E. R. "Dermacentor Ticks (Acari: Ixodoidea: Ixodidae) of the New World. A Scanning Electron
Microscope Atlas." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 88 (4)(1986): 609-627.
Department of Invertebrate Zoology
Barnard, J. L. Book Review. Ledoyer, M. "Crustaces Amphipodes Gammariens.--Faune de Madagascar." Editions de 1'ORSTOM, 59(2): 600-1112. Journal of Crustacean Biology 7 (1986): 202.
Barnard, J. L., and Agard, J. "A New Species of Ampelisca (Amphipoda) from Trinidad." Bulletin of Marine Science 39 (1987): 630-636, figs. 1-3.
Barnard, J. L., and Ingram, C. "The Supergiant Deep-Sea Amphipod: Alicella gigantea (Lysianasidae) from the North Pacific Gyre." Journal of Crustacean Biology 6 (1986): 825-839, 8 figs.
Barnard, J. L., and Thomas, J. D. "New Species of Neomegamphopus from Tropical America (Marine Amphipoda, Crustacea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (1987): 147-163, figs. 1-6.
Chornesky, E. A., and Peters, E. C. "Reproduction and Growth in the Reef Coral Porites astreoides." Biological Bulletin 172 (1987): 161-177.
Clark, J., and Barnerd, J. L. "Chono, a New Genus of Zobrachoidae (Amphipoda, Crustacea) from Magellan Strait, with Revision of Urohaustoriidae."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (1987): 75-88, figs. 1-6.
Cohen, Anne C., and Kornicker, L. S. "Catalogue of the Rutidermatidae
(Crustacea: Ostracoda)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (44) (1987): i-iv, 1-11.

<<<Page: 236>>>

Downey, M. E. "Revision of the Atlantic Brisingida (Echinodermata: Asteroidea), with Description of a New Genus and Family." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (435): iii+ 57 pp., figs. 1-24.
Gardner, G. R.; Yevich, P. P.; Malcolm, A. R.; Rogerson, P. F.; Mills, L. J.; Senecal, A. G.; Lee, T. C.; Harshbarger, J. C.; and Camerson, T. P. "Tumor Development in Winter Flounder Exposed to a Contaminated Marine Sediment Under Laboratory and Field Conditions." In Program and Abstracts: Winter Flounder Biology Workshop (December 2-3, 1986). Mystic, Connecticut.
Abstr.
Grygier, M. J. "Nauplii, Antennular Ontogeny, and the Position of the Ascothoracida Within the Maxillopoda." Journal of Crustacean Biology 7: 87-104.
"Reappraisal of Sex Determination in the Ascothoracida." Crustaceana 52 (1987): 149-162.
Harshbarger, J. C., and Black, J. Jj. "A Strategy for Using Fish Bioassays and Surveys to Identify and Eliminate Point Source Environmental Carcinogens." In Toward a Transboundary Monitoring Network: A Continuing Binational Exploration. Edited by B. L. Bandurski, P. T. Haug, and A. L. Hamilton.
2 (1986): 510-517. Canada: International Joint Commission, United States and Canada.
Hershler, R. "Redescription of Assiminea infima Berry 1947 from Death Valley, California." Veliger 29 (1987): 274-288.
Hershler, R., and Longley, G. "“Phreatoceras, a New Name for Hadoceras Hershler and Longley, 1986 (Gastropoda) Non Strand, 1934 (Cephalopoda) ." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (1987): 402.
"Phreatodrobia coronae, a New Species of Cave Snail from Southwestern Texas." Nautilus 101 (1987): 133-139.
Hershler, R., and Minckley, W. L. "Microgeographic Variation in the Banded Spring Snail (Hydrobiidae: Mexipyrgus) from the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Coahuila, Mexico." Malacologia 27 Gee). 357-374.
Hershler, R., and Thompson, F. G. "North American Hydrobiidae (Gastropoda: Rissocea): Redescription and Systematic Relationships of Tryonia Stimpson, 1865 and Pyrgulopsis Call and Pilsbry, 1886." Nautilus 101 T1987): 25-32.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. "Highlights of a Half Century of Crayfishing." In Freshwater Crayfish VI, Papers from the Sixth International Symposium of Astacolo Lund, Sweden, 13-15 August 1984. Edited by Per Brinck. Pages 12-23, 3 Figures.
. "A New Troglobitic Crab (Crustacea: Decapoda: Pseudothelphusidae) from Belize." In Studies on the Cave and Endogean Fauna of North America. Edited by James R. Reddell. Texas Memorial Museum Speleological Monographs 1 (1986): 1-4, 2 Figures. Austin, Texas: Texas Memorial Museum.
"On the Identity of Astacus (Cambarus) mexicanus Erichson (1846) and Cambarus astecus Saussure (1857) (Decapoda: Cambaridae) with the Description of Procambarus olmecorum, New Species, from Veracruz, Mexico." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (1)(1987): 198-215, 3 Figures.
"A Review of the Crayfish Genus Astacoides (Decapoda: Parasacidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (443): 3 + 50 pages, 23 Figures.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Franz, Richard. "New Troglobitic Crayfish with Comments on its Relationship to Epigean and Other Hypogean Crayfishes of Florida." Journal of Crustacean Biology 6 (3)(1986): 509-519, 3 Figures.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Grubbs, Andrew G. "Notes on the Crayfish Procambarus (Ortmannicus) xilitlae (Decapoda: Cambaridae)." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 99 (4)(1986): 735-738, 1 Figure.
tr i \O

<<<Page: 237>>>

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Whiteman, Mike. "A New, Economically Important Crayfish (Decapoda: Cambaridae) from the Neches River Basin, Texas, with a
Key to the subgenus Fallicambarus." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (2) (1987): 403-411, 2 Figures. Houbrick, R. S. "Comparative Reproductive Biology of Planaxis Species."
American Malacological Bulletin 3 (1)(1986): 96. "Cerithidea reidi, spec., nov., from Western Australia." The Veliger
waewios (3)(1986): 280-286.
Houbrick, R. S. "Clypeomorus, a Genus of Littorinid-like Cerithids." American Malacological Bulletin 4 (1)(1986): 109. Ta Sees"The Systematic Position of Royella sinon (Bayle) (Prosobranchia: Cerithiidae)." The Veliger 28 (4): 429-435."Discovery of a New, Living Cerithioclava Species in the Caribbean (Cerithiidae, Prosobranchia) ." Proceedings 0 of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (2)(1986): 257-260.
"Transfer of Quadrasia from the Planaxidae to the Buccinidae (Prosobranchia: Gastropoa)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (2)(1986): 359-362.
Jones, M. L. "The Generic Marian." Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington (7)(1987): 2.
Jones, M. L., and Bright, C. F. “Index to Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington." Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington (6) (1987) : 547-566.
Kornicker, L. S. "Redescription of Sheina orri Harding, 1966, a Myodocopid Ostracod Collected on Fishes off Queensland, Australia." Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 99 (4)(1986): 639-646.
"Codonocera cuspidata, a New Species of Pelagic Ostracod from off Queensland, Australia (Crustacea: Ostracoda: Cypridinidae)." Records of the Australian Museum 38 (3)(1986): 119-134.
"Eusarsiella thominx, a New Species of Myodocopid Ostracoda from the Continental Shelf of Southern California." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 100 (1)(1987): 134-181.
"Supplementary Description of Cypridina americana (Miller, 1890), a Luminescent Myodocopid Ostracod from the East Pacific." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (1)(1987): 173-181.
Perez Farfante, I., and Boothe, B. B., Jr. "Redescription and Henge Extension of the Shrimp Parapenaeopsis balli (Decapoda: Penaeidae)." Journal of Crustacean Biology 6 (3) (1986) 401-407.
Pettibone, Marian H. "A New Scale-worm Commensal with Deep-sea Mussles in the Seep-sites at the Florida Escarpment in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico (Polychaeta: Polynoidae: Branchipolynoinae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (3)(1986): 444-451, 4 Figures.
Roper, C. F. E., and Vecchione, M. "Occurrence of Larval Illex illecebrosus and Other Young Cephalopods in the Slope Water/Gulf Stream Interface." Biological Society of Washington 99 (4)(1986): 703-708, 2 Figures.
Ruetzler, K. "Tetillidae (Spirophorida, Porifera): A Taxonomic Reevaluation." In Taxonomy of Porifera. NATO ASI Ser. G13, (1987): 16 Pages. Berlin: Springer.
Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "New Genera and Species of the Megaluropus Group (Amphipoda, Megaluropidae) from American Seas." Bulletin of Marine Science 38 (1986): 442-476, Figures. 1-15.
Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "Two Species of Hornellia (Subgenus Metaceradocus from the Florida Keys and Belize (Amphipoda, Melphidippoidea)." Bulletin of Marine Science 38 (1986): 447-487, 6 Figures.
id Wo Oo

<<<Page: 238>>>

Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "The Indo-Pacific Audulla chelifera Reported from the Caribbean Sea (Crustacea: Amphipoda) ." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 100 (1987): 364-370, 4 Figures.
Department of Mineral Sciences
Buchwald, V. F., and Clarke, R. S., Jr. "The Verkhne Dnieprovsk Iron Meteorite Specimens in the Vienna Collection and the Confusion of Verkhne Dnieprovsk with Augustinovka." Meteoritics 22 (1987): 121-135.
Clarke, R. S., Jr. “Antarctic Iron Meteorites: An Unexpectedly High Proportion of Falls of Unusual Interest." International Workshop on Antarctic Meteorites (1986): 28-29. Edited by J. 0. Annexstad, L. Schultz, and H. Wanke.
Clayton, R. N.; Mayeda, T. K.; MacPherson, G. J.; and Grossman, L. "Oxygen and Silicon Isotopes in Inclusions and Chnondrules from Vigarano." Lunar and Planetary Sciences XVIII (1987): 185-186 (Abstract).
Davis, A. M.; MacPherson, G. J.; Hinton, R. W.; and Laughlin, J. R. "An Unaltered Vigarano Fine-grained Inclusion." Lunar and Planetary Sciences XVIII (1987): 223-224 (Abstract).
Dunn, P. J. "Barcenite Discredited." Canadian Mineralogist 24 (1986): 591.
» "Manganostibite: New Chemical Data, and its Relation to Kolicite and Holdenite." Geologiska Forenigens Forhandlingar 109 (1987): 101-102. Stockholm.
Dunn, P. J., and Francis, C. A. "Davisonite and Lehiite Discredited." American Mineralogist 71 (1986): 1515-1516.
Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; Erd, R. C.; and Ramik, R. A. "Franciscanite and Orebroite, Two New Minerals from California and Sweden, Related to Redefined Welinite." American Mineralogist 71 (1986): 1522-1526.
Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; Su, S. -C.; Nelen, J. A.; and von Knorring, 0. V. "Johninnesite, a New Sodium Manganese Arsenosilicate from the Kombat Mine, Namibia." Mineralogical Magazine 50 (1986): 667-670.
Dunn, P. J., and Roberts, W. L. "Cuprocassiterite Discredited as Mushistonite, and an Unnamed Tin Mineral from the Etta Mine." Mineralogical Record 17 (1986): 383.
Dunn, P. J.; Sturman, B. D.; and Nelen, J. Aw. "Wendwilsonite, the Mg-analogue of Roselite, from Morocco, New Jersey, and Mexico." American Mineralogist 72 (1987): 217-221.
Dunn, P. J., and Wilson, W. E. "Quality Mineral Lectures." Mineralogical Record 18 (1986): 114-115.
Fiske, R. S.; Duffield, W. A.; and Swanson, D. A. "The Magnitude-7.2 Earthquake November 1975 and the Structure of the South Flank of Kilauea." Abstract Volume Hawaii Symposium on How Volcanoes Work (1987): 77. Hilo. (Abstract).
Fiske, R. S.; Simkin, T.; and Nielsen, E. Editors. "The Volcano Letter." (1987): 1500 p. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. Fredriksson, K. "Experiments on Melting, Solidification and Crystallization of
Chondritic Components." Meteoritics 21 (1986): 364-365.
Fredriksson, K., and Fredriksson, B. J. "Partition of Major Elements in Chondrules." Abstract Volume Meteoritical Society Meeting. (1987): 62. Newcastle Upon Tyne.
Fudali, R. F. "Wolf Creek Crater Revisited." Journal of Geology 95 (1987): 134-135.

<<<Page: 239>>>

Grice, J. D.; Ercit, T. S.; Van Velthuizen, J.; and Dunn, P. Tie "Poudretteite, KNa5BzSij, 5039» a New Member of the Osumilite Group from Mont Saint Hilaire,
Quebec, and its Crystal Structure." Geological Association of Canada / Mineralogical Association of Canada, 19387 Annual Meeting, Program with Abstracts (1987): 49. (Abstract).
Grice, J. D.; Van Velthuizen, J.; Dunn, P. J.; Newbury, D. E.; Etz, E. S.3; and Nielsen, C. H. "Moydite, (Y,REE)(B(OH),)(cOz), a New Mineral Species from
the Evans-Lou Pegmatite, Quebec." Canadian Mineralogist 24 (1986): 665-673.
Hanson, R. B.; Sorensen, S. S.; and Fiske, R. S. “Cretaceous Hydrothermal Alteration Accompanying Contact Metamorphism, Ritter Range Pendant, Sierra
Nevada, California." EOS, Transactions American Geophysical Union 68 Goam) emi Custrdeeye eT OE ee ee
Jarosewich, E.; Clarke, R. S., Jr.; and Barrows, J. N. Editors. "The Allende Meteorite Reference Sample." Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Seiences (27)(1987): 49.
Kampf, A. R., and Dunn, P. J. "“Ogdensburgite from Mapimi and New Data for the Species." American Mineralogist 72 (1987): 409-412.
Keller, P.; Innes, J.; and Dunn, P. J. "Zincroselite, Cay Zn( AsO, )5.2H50, a New
Mineral from Tsumeb, Namibia." Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie Monatshefte (1986): 523-527.
Leavens, P. B.; Dunn, P. J.; and Burt, D. M. "Glaucochroite, (olivine, CaMnSi0,) from Franklin, New Jersey: its Composition, Occurrence, and
Formation." American Mineralogist 72 (1987): 423-428.
MacPherson, G. J.; Crozaz, G.; and Lundberg, L. L. "Rare Earth Element Distribution in a Complex Type B1 Allende Inclusion, an Ion Microprobe Study." Lunar and Planetary Sciences XVIII (1987): 590-591 (Abstract).
MacPherson, G. J., and Huebner, J. S. "Systematics of Ti-Al Substitutions in Synthetic Augite." EOS, Transactions American Geophysical Union 68 (1987): 460 (Abstract).
Mason, B. M., and Taylor, S. R. "High-grade Basement Gneisses and Granitoids in Westland, New Zealand." Journal of the Royal Society of New Zealand 17 (1987): 100-124.
Melson, W. G. "Commentary on Paper by Melson and Van Andel on “Metamorphism in the Mid-Atlantic Ridge' for Citation Classic Section." Current Contents 13 (1987): -16.
Peacor, D. R.; Dunn, P. J.; Simmons, W. B.; and Wicks, F. J. "Manganarsite, the Arsenite Analogue of Manganpyrosmalite, and Unnamed Analogues of Friedelite and Schallerite from Langban, Sweden." American Mineralogist 71 (1986): 1517-1521.
Peacor, D. R.; Dunn, P. J.; and Sturman, B. D. "Ramsbeckite, an American Occurrence at the Ecton Mine, Pennsylvania." Mineralogical Record 18 (1987): 131-132.
Peacor, D. R.; Dunn, P. J.; Su, S. -C.; and Innes, J. "“"Ribbeite, a Polymorph of Alleghanyite and Member of the Leucophoenicite Group from the Kombat Mine, Namibia." American Mineralogist 72 (1987): 213-216.
Post, J. E., and Burnham, C. W. "Modeling Tunnel-cation Displacements in Hollandites Using Structure-energy Calculations." American Mineralogist 71 (1986): 1178-1185.
Post, J. E., and Burnham, C. W. "Structure-energy Calculations on Low and High Albite." American Mineralogist 72 (1987): 507-514.
ie ie}

<<<Page: 240>>>

Rachlin, A. L.; Mandarino, J. A.; Murowchick, B. L.; Ramik, R. A.; Dunn, P. J.; and Back, M. E. "Mineralogy of hilgardite-4M from Evaporites in New Brunswick." Canadian Mineralogist 24 (1986): 689-693.
Rouse, R. C.; Dunn, P. J.; and Innes, J. "Kombatite, the Vanadium Analogue of Sahlinite, from the Kombat Mine, South West Africa." Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie Monatshefte (1986): 519-522.
Rouse, R. C.; Peacor, D. R.; Dunn, P. J.; Simmons, W. B.; and Newbury, D. "Wheatleyite, Na,Cu(C50) )>+2H99, a Natural Sodium Copper Salt of Oxalic
Acid." American Mineralogist 71 (1986): 1240-1242. Siebert, L.; Glicken, H.; and Kienle J. "Debris Avalanches and Lateral Blast at Mount St. Augustine Volcano, Alaska."
EOS, Transactions American Geophysical Union 67 (1986): 1259 (Abstract). Siebert, L.; Glicken, H.; and Ui, T. "Volcanic Hazards from Bezymainny-and
Bundai-type Eruptions." Bulletin of Volcanology 49 (1987): 435-459. Sorensen, S. S., and Barton, M. D. "Matasomatism and Partial Melting in a Subduction Complex: Catalina Scnist, Southern California." Geology 15 (1987): 115-118. White, J. S.. "The Nation's Gem Collection One Hundred Years." Earth Sciences History 5 (1986): 159-169."Neotocite from the Foote Mine, North Carolina." Mineralogical Record 18 (1987): 133-134. "Pokrovskite, a Common Mineral." Mineralogical Record 18 (1987):
135-136. . "An Unusual Quartz Crystal from Zaire." Mineralogical Record 18 (1987): 207-209.
White, J. S., and Evans, H. T. "The Colorful Vanadium Minerals: a Brief Review and a New Classification." Mineralogical Record 18 (1987): 333-340.
White, J. S., and Nelen, J. A. "Monazite and Calcioancylite from the Foote Mine, North Carolina." Mineralogical Record 18 (1987): 203-205.
Department of Paleobiology
Behrensmeyer, A. K. Review of "Systematic Butchery by Plio/Pleistocene Hominids at Olduvai Gorge, Tanzania," by H. T. Bunn and E. M. Kroll. Current Anthropology 27 (5)(1986): 443-4.
Review of "Zhoukoudian: A Closer Look," by L. R. Binford and N. M. Stone. Current Anthropology 27 (5)(1986): 469.
"Patterns of Bone Distribution in Plio-Pleistocene and Recent Environments." In Abstracts of the 85th Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological Association (1986): 113 (abstract). Washington, D. C.: American Anthropological Association.
"Miocene Fluvial Facies and Vertebrate Taphonomy in Northern Pakistan."
In Recent Developments in Fluvial Sedimentology, Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Sedimentology, Society of Economic
Paleontologists and Mineralogists Special Publication Number 39 (1987): 169-76. Edited by F. G. Ethridge, R. M. Flores, and M. D. Harvey. Tulsa,
Oklahoma: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists. Behrensmeyer, A. K.; Cifelli, R. L.3; Stevens, Larry; and Downs, W. R. "Overview of Quaternary Deposits in the Grand Canyon." In Abstracts with Programs, 1986 9th Annual Meetin Rocky Mountain Section of the Geological Societ of America 18 (5)(1986): 341 (abstract). Flagstaff, Arizona: Geological
Society of America.

<<<Page: 241>>>

Boardman, R. S. "Class Stenolaemata." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 509-30. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Boardman, R. S., and Cheetham, A. H. "Phylum Bryozoa, Part I Phylum Overview," In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 497-509. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Boardman, R. S.; Cheetham, A. H.; and Rowell, A. J., editors. Fossil Invertebrates (1987). Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
"Nature and Scope of Invertebrate Paleontology." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 1-3. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Bond, G. B.; Lighty, R. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Raymond, Ann. "Holocene Stratigraphy of a Carbonate Mangrove Buildup, Twin Cays, Belize, Central America." In Geological Socie of America Abstracts with Programs, Annual Meeting 18 (6)(1986): 546 (abstract). Boulder, Colorado: Geological Society of America.
Buzas, M. A. "Kingdom Protista, Part I Kingdom Overview." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 67-72. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
"Kingdom Protista, Part II -— Additional Concepts, Smaller Foraminifera." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 72-81. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Buzas, M. A., and Behrensmeyer, A. K. "Ecology —Paleoecology." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 19-28. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Chatterjee, Sankar, and Hotton, Nicholas, III. "The Paleoposition of India." Journal of Southeast Asian Earth Sciences 1 (3)(1986): 145-89.
Cheetham, A. H. "SingleVersus Multiple-character Patterns of Morphologic Change in Cheilostome Bryozoa." In Fourth North American Paleontological Convention (1986): AQ (abstract). Boulder: University of Colorado.
. "Class Gymnolaemata." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 530-49. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
"Tempo of Evolution in a Neogene Bryozoan: Are Trends in Single Morphologic Characters Misleading?" Paleobiology 13 (3)(1987): 286-96.
Cheetham, A. H., and Hayek, L. C. "Character Weighting in Bryozoan Phylogeny Reconstruction." In Abstracts Seventh International Bryozoolo Conference (1986): 12 (abstract). Bellingham: Western Washington University.
Coutellier, Vincent, and Stanley, D. J. “Eastern Nile Delta Evolution During the Holocene." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs Annual Meeting 18 (6)(1986): 572 (abstract). Boulder, Colorado: Geological Society of America.
DiMichele, W. A., and DeMaris, P. J. "Structure of a Pennsylvanian-age Lepidodendron Forest: Colonizers of a Disturbed Swamp Habitat in the Herrin (No. 6) Coal of Illinois." PALAIOS 2 (2)(1987): 146-57.
DiMichele, W. A.; Phillips, T. L.; and Olmsted, R. G. "Opportunistic Evolution: Abiotic Environmental Stress and the Fossil Record of Plants." Review of
Palaeobotany and Palynology 50 (1/2)(1987): 151-76.

<<<Page: 242>>>

DiMichele, W. A.; Phillips, T. L.; and Willard, D. A. "Morphology and Paleoecology of Pennsylvanian-age Coal-swamp Plants." In Land Plants: Notes for a Short Course; Department of Geological Sciences Studies in Geology 15 : 97-114. Edited by T. W. Broadhead. Knoxville: University of Tennessee.
Domning, D. P., and Ray, C. E. "The Earliest Sirenian (Mammalia: Dugongidae) from the Eastern Pacific Ocean." Marine Mammal Science 2 (4) (1986): 263-76.
Douglass, R. C. "Kingdom Protista, Part II Additional Concepts, Larger Foraminifera." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 81-92. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne." Blackwell Scientific Publications.
"Fusulinid Biostratigraphy and Correlations between the Appalachian and Eastern Interior Basins." U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1451 (1987). Washington, D. C.: United States Government Printing Office.
Emry, R. J. “Mammal Fossil Incompletely Drawn." Review of "Mammal Evolution: An Illustrated Guide, " by R. J. G. Savage and M. R. Long. Naturalist Review Winter (1987): 3.
"The Course of Evolutionary History." Review of "Life Pulse: Episodes from the Story of the Fossil Record," by Niles Eldredge. The Scientist 1 (12)(1987): 22.
Gordon, Mackenzie, Jr., and Yochelson, E. L. "Late Mississippian Gastropods of the Chainman Shale, West-central Utah." U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1368 (1987). Washington, D. C.: United States Government Printing Office.
Graus, R. R., and Macintyre, I. G. "Controls of Zonation Patterns of Caribbean
Reefs as Revealed by Computer Simulation." In Sixth Annual Meeting of the International Society for Reef Studies, Abstract Volume (1986): 25 (abstract). Marburg, West Germany: International Society for Reef Studies.
Guillette, L. J., Jr., and Hotton, Nicholas, III. "The Evolution of Mammalian Reproductive Characteristics in Therapsid Reptiles." In The Ecology and Biology of Mammal-like Reptiles (1986): 239-50. Edited by Nicholas Hotton III, P. D. MacLean, J. J. Roth, and E. C. Roth. Washington, D. C.: The Smithsonian Institution Press.
Hayek, L. C., and Cheetham, A. H. "Curvilinear Regression in Release 2." Lotus 3 (5)(1987): 78-83. en
Hotton, Nicholas, III. "Dicynodonts and their Role as Primary Consumers." In The Ecology and Biology of Mammal-like Reptiles (1986): 71-82. Edited by Nicholas Hotton III, P. D. MacLean, J. J. Roth, and E. C. Roth.
Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Hotton, Nicholas, III; MacLean, P. D.; Roth, J. J.; and Roth, E. C., editors. The Ecology and Biology of Mammal-like Reptiles (1986). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Jordan, T. E.; Pierce, J. W.3; and Correll, D. L. “Flux of Particulate Matter in the Tidal Marshes and Subtidal Shallows of the Rhode River Estuary." Estuaries 9 (4B)(1986): 310-19.
Macintyre, I. G.; Graus, R. R.; Reinthal, P. N.; Littler, M. M.; and Littler, D. S. "The Barrier Reef Sediment Apron: Tobacco Reef, Belize." Coral Reefs 6 (1)(1987): 1-12.
Mamay, S. H. "New Species of Gigantopteridaceae from the Lower Permian of
Texas." Phytologia 61 (5)(1986): 311-15.

<<<Page: 243>>>

Neuman, R. B. "Type Section of the Early Ordovician Shin Brook Formation and Evidence of the Penobscot Orogeny, Northern Penobscot County, Maine." In Northeastern Section of the Geological Society of America, Centennial Field Guide Volume 5 (1987): 307-9. Edited by D. C. Roy. Boulder, Colorado: Geological Society of America.
Neuman, R. B. and Max, M. D. "Penobscottian-Grampian-Finnmarkian Orogenies as Indicators of Terrane Linkages." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs, Annual Meeting 18 (6)(1986): 705 (abstract). Boulder, Colorado: Geological Society of America.
Pierce, J. W. "Temporal Patterns of Suspensate Concentrations in the Rhode River Estuary, Maryland, U. S. A." In Proceedings of the International Symposium on Physical Processes in Estuaries (1986): 85 (abstract).
Delft, Netherlands: Delft Hydraulics Laboratory.
Pierce, J. W.; Correll, D. L.; Goldberg, Bernard; Faust, M. A.; and Klein, W. H. "Response of Underwater Light Transmittance in the Rhode River Estuary to Changes in Water-quality Parameters." Estuaries 9 (3)(1986): 169-78.
Pierce, J. W.3; Correll, D. L.3; Klein, W. H.; and Goldberg, Bernard. "Regression Models of Beam Attenuation on Water Quality Parameters in Two Turbid Estuaries, Indian River Florida, and Rhode River, Maryland, U. S. A." Estuarine and Brackish-water Sciences Association Bulletin 45 (1986): 66.
Pierce, J. W., and Nichols, M. M. "Change of Particle Composition from Fluvial into an Estuarine Environment, Rappahanock River, Virginia." Journal of Coastal Research 2 (4)(1986): 419-25.
Pojeta, John, Jr., and Gordon, Mackenzie, Jr. "Class Cephalopoda." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 329-58. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Ray, C. E., editor. Geolo and Paleontolo of the Lee Creek Mine, North Carolina II; Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology Number 61 (1987). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Forward." In Geolo and Paleontolo of the Lee Creek Mine, North Carolina, II; Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology Number 61 (1987): 1-8. Edited by C. E. Ray. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Rohr, D. M.; Davis, R. A.; Mamay, S. H.; and Miller, J. M. "Leonardian Plant-bearing Beds from the Del Norte Mountains, West Texas." In The Leonardian Facies in W. Texas and S. E. New Mexico and Guidebook to the Glass Mountains, West Texas; 1987 Permian Basin Section, Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists Publication 87-27 (1987):
67-68. Edited by D. W. Cromwell, Jr., and L. J. Mazzulo. Midland, Texas: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists.
Roth, J. J.; Roth, E. C.; and Hotton, Nicholas, III. "The Parietal Foramen and Eye: Their Function and Fate in Therapsids." In The Ecology and Biology of Mammal-like Reptiles (1986): 173-84. Edited by Nicholas Hotton III, P. D. MacLean, J. J. Roth, and E. C. Roth. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Rowell, A. J., and Grant, R. E. "Phylum Brachiopoda." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 445-96. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Sohn, I. G. "The Ubiquitous Ostracode Darwinula stevensoni (Brady and Robertson, 1870), Redescription of the Species and Lectotype Designation." Micropaleontology 33 (2)(1987): 150-63.
"Middle and Upper Triassic Marine Ostracoda from the Shubik Formation,
Northeastern Alaska." U.S. Geological Survey Bulletin 1664 (1987): C1i-C24.
tw We ON

<<<Page: 244>>>

Sohn, I. G. and Sando, W. J. "Paleobathymetric Significance of Ostracodes from the Paine Member of the Lodgepole Limestone (Early Mississippian),
Northeast Utah." U.S. Geological Survey Bulletin 1690 (1987): E1-E7. Stanley, D. J. "Mediterranean Deltas and Cones: Introduction and
Generalities." Rapport de la Commission International pour la Mer Mediterranee 30 (1986): 61-62.
Stanley, D. J., and Liyanage, A. N. "Clay-mineral Variations in the Northeastern Nile Delta, as Influenced by Depositional Processes." Marine Geology 73 (3/4)(1986): 263-83.
Sturt, B. A.; Ramsay, D. M.; Furnes, Harald; and Neuman, R. B. "The Vagamo Ophiolite Implications for Accretionary Evolution of the Scandinavian Caledonides." In 17th Nordic Geological Meeting, May 12-15, 1986 (1986): 195 (abstract). Helsingfors, Finland: Helsingfors Universi
Towe, K. M. "Fossil Preservation." In Fossil Invertebrates (1987): 36-41. Edited by R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell. Palo Alto, Oxford, London, Edinburgh, Boston, Melbourne: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Wardlaw, B. R., and Grant, R. E. "Conodont Biostratigraphy of tne Cathedral Mountain and Road Canyon Formations, Glass Mountains, West Texas." In The Leonardian Facies in W. Texas and S. E. New Mexico and Guidebook to the Glass Mountains, West Texas; 1987 Permian Basin Section, Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists Publication 87-27 (1987): 63-66. Edited by D. W. Cromwell, Jr., and L. J. Mazzulo. Midland, Texas: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists.
Wardlaw, B. R.; Schindel, D. E.; and Yochelson, E. L. "A New Species of Isogramma (Brachiopoda) from the Pennsylvanian of North-central Texas."
U. S. Geological Survey Bulletin 1664 (1987): B1-B5. Whitmore, F. C., Jr. "Cetacea from the Sahabi Formation, Libya." In Neogene
Paleontology and Geology of Sahibi (1987): 145-52. Edited by N. T. Boaz, Ali El-Arnauti, A. W. Gaziry, Jean de Heinzelin, and D. D. Boaz. New York: Alan R. Liss, Inc.
Review of "Mammalian Evolution: An Illustrated Guide," by R. J. G. Savage. American Association for the Advancement of Science, Books and Films 21 (4)(1987): 232-33.
Wilson, Druid. "A New Pycnodont Oyster from the Pungo River Formation, and an Annotated List of the Cenozoic Pycnodonts of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain." In Geolo and Paleontolo of the Lee Creek Mine, North Carolina II; Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology Number 61 (1987): 13-20. Edited by C. E. Ray. Wasnington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Species of Ecphora, Including the Subgenus Stenomphalus, in the Pungo River Formation." In Geolo and Paleontolo of the Lee Creek Mine, North Carolina, II; Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology Number 61 (1987): 21-27. Edited by C. E. Ray. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Wing, S. L., and Eckenwalder, J. E. "Quantitative Architectural Comparisons of Fossil and Modern Leaves." American Journal of Botany 74 (5)(1987): 694 (abstract).
Wing, S. L., and Tiffany, B. H. "The Reciprocal Interaction of Angiosperm Evolution and Tetrapod Herbivory." Review of Palaeobotany and Palynology 50 (1/2)(1987): 179-210.
"Interactions of Angiosperms and Herbivorous Tetrapods through Time."
“In The Origins of Angiosperms and their Biological Consequences 1987 ): 203-224. Edited by E. M. Friis, W. G. Chaloner, and P. R. Crane.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

<<<Page: 245>>>

Wing, S. L.; Wight, D. C.; Stein, W. E.; and DiMichele, W. A. "The Concept of Genus in Paleobotany." American Journal of Botany 74 (5)(1987): 717 (abstract).
Yochelson, E. L. Review of "The Geology of China," by Yang Zunyi, Cheng Yugi, and Wang Hongtzen, Earth Sciences History 5 (1)(1986): 98-99.
« Review of "The Resolution Journal of Johann Reinhold Forster 1772-1775," edited by M. E. Hoare. Earth Sciences History 5 (1)(1986): 99.
Review of "Invertebrate Palaeontology and Evolution," 2nd edition, by E. N. K. Clarkson. Earth Sciences History 5 (2)(1986): 171-2.
"Redescription of Spirodentalium Walcott (Gastropoda: Late Cambrian) from Wisconsin." Journal of Paleontology 61 (1)(1987): 66-69.
Yochelson, E. L., and Lindemann, R. H. "Considerations in the Systematic Placement of the Styliolines." In Problematic Fossil Taxa; Monographs on Geology and Geophysics 5 (1987): 45-58. Edited by A. Hoffman and M. N. Nitecki. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Yochelson, E. L., and Stinchcomb, B. L. "Recognition of Macluritella (Gastropoda) from the Upper Cambrian of Missouri and Nevada." Journal of Paleontology 61 (1)(1987): 56-61.
Department of Vertebrate Zoology
Beehler, Bruce M. "Ecology and Behavior of the Buff-Tailed Sicklebill
(Paradisaeidae: Epimachus albertisi)." The Auk 104 (1987): 48-55.
"Review: Harry T. Bell's ‘Occupation of Urban Habitats by Birds in Papua
New Guinea'." The Wilson Bulletin 99 (1)(1987): 144.
Beehler, Bruce M., and Beehler, Carol H. "Observations on the Ecology and Behavior of the Pale-Billed Sicklebill." The Wilson Bulletin 98 (4)(1986): 505-515. é
Beehler, Bruce M.; Raju, Krishna K. S. R.; and Ali, Shahid. "Avian Use of Man-Disturbed Forest Habitats in the Eastern Ghats, India." Ibis 129 (1986): 197-211.
Brisbin, I. Lehr., Jr.; Ross, Charles A.; Downes, M. C.; and Gammon, B. "The Compilation of a Cross-indexed Topical Bibliography for the American Alligator A Study of Trends in the Literature Concerning an Endangered Species." In Crocodiles. Proceedings of the 7th Working Meeting of the Crocodile Specialists Group. IUCN Publ. NS: (1986): 124-131.
Brisbin, I. Lehr, Jr.; Ross, Charles A.; Downes, M. C.; Staton, Mark A.; and Gammon, Brad R. "A Bibliography of the American Alligator oo
ator mississippiensis)." Savannah River Ecology Laboratory NERP 13: (1986): xii-310.
Crombie, Ronald I. "The Status of the Nicobar Toads Bufo camortensis Mansukhani & Sarkar, 1980 and Bufo spinipes Fitzinger In Steindachner, 1867." Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 83 (1)(1986): 226-229.
. “Another New Forest-dwelling Frog (Leptodactylidae: Eleutherodactylus)
from the Cockpit Country of Jamaica." Transactions of the San Diego Society of Natural History 21 (9)(1986): 145-153.
Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "The Stomioid Fish Genus Eustomias and the Oceanic Species Concept." In Pelagic Biogeography. Edited by A. C. Pierrot-Bults et al. UNESCO Technical Papers in Marine Science (49)(1986): 98-103. . “Family No. 67: Stomiidae." In Smith's Sea Fishes. Edited by Margaret M. Smith and Phillip C. Heemstra. (1986): 229-230.
ie) eo co

<<<Page: 246>>>

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "Family No. 68: Chauliodontidae." In Smith's Sea Fishes.
Edited by Margaret M. Smith and Phillip C. Heemstra. (1986): 230.
"Femily No. 69: Astronesthidae." In Smith's Sea Fishes. Edited by
Margaret M. Smith and Phillip C. Heemstra. (1986): 231-234.
"Family No. 72: Melanostomiidae." In Smith's Sea Fishes. Edited by
Margaret M. Smith and Phillip C. Heemstra. (1986): 236-243.
Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., and Krueger, William H. Editors. Biology of Midwater Fishes of the Bermuda Ocean Acre." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (452)(1987): i-iii, 1-187.
Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., and Karnella, Charles. "Background and Methods Used in Studies of the Biology of Fishes of the Bermuda Ocean Acre." In Biology of Midwater Fishes of the Bermuda Ocean Acre. Edited by Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
apo Wi Liten H. Krueger. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (452)(1987):
Goodyear, Richard H., and Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "Family No. 71: Malacosteidae." In Smith's Sea Fishes. Edited by Margaret M. Smith and Phillip C. Heemstra (1986): 235-236.
Graves, Gary R., and Olson, Storrs L. "A New Subspecies of Turdus swalesi (Aves: Passeriformes: Muscicapidae) from the Dominican Republic." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (4)(1986): 580-583."Chlorostilbon bracei Lawrence, an Extinct Species of Hummingbird from New Providence Island, Bahamas." Auk 104 (2)(1987): 296-302.
Graves, G. R., and Robbins, M. B. "A New Subspecies of Siptornis striaticollis (Aves: Furnariidae) from the Eastern Slope of the Andes." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (100)(1987): 121-124.
Graves, G. R., and Weske, J. S. "Tangara phillipsi, a New Species of Tanager from the Cerros del Sira, Eastern Peru." Wilson Bulletin (99)(1987): 1-6.
Handley, Charles 0., Jr. "Christmas Bird Count: Lewisburg W. VA." American Birds 40 (4)(1986): 793.
Handley, Charles 0., Jr., and Webster, David. "The Supposed Occurrence of Glossophaga longirostris Miller on Dominica and Problems with the Type Series of Glossophaga rostrata Miller." Occasional Papers 108 (1987): 1-10. The Museum, Texas Tech University.
Hoffmann, Robert S. "Foreword." In Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman, by S. G. Shetler. (1986): 7-8. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 160 Pages.
"A New Locality Record for the Kouprey from Viet-Nam, and an Archaeological Record from China." Mammalia 50 (1986): 391-395.
"A Review of the Systematics and Distribution of Chinese Red-Toothed Shrews (Mammalia: Soricinae)." Acta Theriologica Sinica 7 (1987): 100-139.
Hoffmann, Robert S.; Jones, J. K., Jr.; Campbell, J. A. "First Record of Myotis auriculus from Guatemala. Southwestern Naturalist 32 (3)(1987): 391. Hoffmann, Robert S.; Jones, J. K., Jr.; Carter, D. C.; Genoways, H. H.; Rice, D. W.; and Jones, C., Jr. "Revised Checklist of North American Mammals North of Mexico." Occasional Papers (107)(1986): 1-22. Texas Tech University.
Hoffmann, Robert S.; Vorontsov, N. N.; Frisman, L. V.; Nadler, C. F.; and Serdynk, V. A. "Populyatsionaya Genetika i Genogeografiya Dikikh Mlekopitayushchikh  Genetika 23 (1987): 725-737. In Russian, Engl. summ.
James, Helen F.; Stafford, Thomas W., Jr.; Steadman, David W.; Olson, Storrs L.; Martin, Paul S.; Jull, A. J. T.; and McCoy, Patrick C. "Radiocarbon Dates on Bones of Extinct Birds from Hawaii." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA 84 (1987): 2350-2354.
Johnson, G. David. "Scombroid Phylogeny: An Alternative Hypothesis." Bulletin of Marine Science 39 (1)(1986): 1-41.

<<<Page: 247>>>

Johnson, G. David, and Smith-Vaniz, William. "Redescription and Relationships of Parasphyraenops atrimanus Bean (Pisces: Serranidae), with a Discussion of Other Bermudian Fishes Known only from Stomach Contents." Bulletin of Marine Science 40 (1)(1987): 48-58.
Keene, Michael J.; Gibbs, Robert H., Jr.; and Krueger, William H. "Family
Melamphaidae, Bigscales." In Biology of Midwater Fishes of the Bermuda Ocean Acre. Edited by Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. and William H. Krueger.
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (452)(1987): 169-185.
Martin, L. D., and Hoffmann, Robert S. "Pleistocene Faunal Provinces and Holocene Biomes of the Central Great Plains." In Quaternary Environments of Kansas. Edited by W. C. Johnson. (5)(1987): 208 Pages. Lawrence, Kansas: Kansas Geological Survey Guidebook Series.
Neas, J. E., and Hoffmann, Robert S. "Budorcas taxicolor." Mammalian Species (277) (1987): 7 Pages.
Olson, Storrs L. "Distribution and Habits of Madagascar Birds," by Austin L. Rand. (1986). New York: Department of Ornithology, American Museum of Natural History.
"Catamblyrhynchus and Paradoxornis: An Unremarked Instance of Convergence in Bill Morphology for Feeding on Bamboo." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 106 (4)(1986): 161-163.
"The Correct Specific Name for the Akepa of Oahu (Drepanidini, Loxops)." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 106 (4)(1986): 148-149.
"Gallirallus sharpei (Buttikofer) nov. comb., a Valid Species of Rail (Rallidae) of Unknown Origin." Gerfaut 76 (4)(1986): 263-269.
"An Early Account of Some Birds from Mauke, Cook Islands, and the Origin of the "Mysterious Starling" Aplonis mavornata Buller." Notornis 53 (4)(1986): 197-208.
"Comment on the Family Name for the Storm Petrels (Aves: Procellariiformes) Z.N.(S.)2024." Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 44 (1)(1987): 44-45.
peeks . "The Beginnings of Birds: Proceedings of the International Archaeopteryx Conference Eichstatt 1984." Edited by M. K. Hecht, J. H. Ostrom, G. Viohl, and P. Wellnhofer. American Scientist 75 (1)(1987): 74-75. ca Mee Rc baa
"More on the Affinities of the Black-collared Thrush of Borneo
(Chlamydochaera jefferyi)." Journal fur Ornithologie 128 (2)(1987): 246-248.
"On the Extent and Source of Instability in Avian Nomenclature, as
Exemplified by North American Birds." Auk 104 (3)(1987): 538-542.
Olson, Storrs L.; Angle, J. Phillip; Grady, Frederick V.; and James, Helen F. "A Technique for Salvaging Anatomical Material from Study Skins of Rare or Extinct Birds." Auk 104 (3)(1987): 510-512.
Olson, Storrs L., and Kurochkin, Evgeny N. "Fossil Evidence of a Tapaculo in the Quaternary of Cuba (Aves: Passeriformes: Scytalopodidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (2) (1987): 3535=357 «
Ortega, H., and Vari, R. P. Annotated Checklist of the Freshwater Fishes of Peru. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 437 (1986): 1-25.
Rickart, E. A.; Hoffmann, Robert S.; Rosenfeld, M. "Karyotype of Spermophilus townsendii artemesiae (Rodentia: Sciuridae) and Chromosomal Variation in the Spermophilus townsendii Complex." Mammalian Chromosome Newsletter 26 (for 1985) (1987): 94-102.
Ripley, S. Dillon. "In Memoriam: Rodolphe Meyer de Schauensee." The Auk 103
(1)(1986): 204-206.
"A Brief Biography of Alain C. White, Father of Connecticut
Conservation." Publication of the Litchfield Institute (1986).

<<<Page: 248>>>

Ripley, S. Dillon. "Review: Salim Ali's "The Fall of a Sparrow"." The Wilson Bulletin 99 (2)(1987): 308-309.
Ripley, S. Dillon, and Beehler, Bruce M. "New Evidence for Sympatry in the Sibling Species Caprimulgus Atripennis Jerdon and C. macrurus Horsfield”". Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 107 (2)(1986): 47-49.
Ripley, S. Dillon, and Steed, James A. "Alexander Wetmore, 1886-1978." Biographical Memoirs 56 (1987): 597-626.
Ripley, S. Dillon, and Washburn, Wilcomb E. "The Development of the Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1855: A Response to Joel J. Orosy's Article." Museum Studies Journal II (4)(1987): 6-11.
Ross, Charles A. "Comments on Indopacific Crocodile Distributions." In:
Crocodiles. Proceedings of the 7th Working Meeting of the Crocodile
Specialists Group. IUCN Publ. NS (1986): 349-354.
. “Crocodylus moreletii." Catalogue of American Amphibians and Reptiles
(40798793 1-3.
Springer, Victor G. "Family No. 235: Blenniidae." In Smiths' Sea Fishes. Edited by M. M. Smith and P. C. Heemstra. Pages 742-755.
Tyler, James C. "Triacanthodidae." In Smith's Sea Fishes. Edited by M. M. Smith and P. C. Heemstra. 1047 (1986): 887-890, 4 Figures. Smith Institute of Ichthyology. South Africa: Macmillan.
Tyler, James C., and Su, J. "Diagnoses of Arothron nigropunctatus and A. meleagris, Two Extremely Polychromatic Indo-Pacific Pufferfishes (Pisces: Tetraodontidae) ." Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia 138 (1)(1986): 14-32, 4 Figures.
Tyler, James C.; Su, J; Hardy, G. S. "A New Generic Name for Anchisomus multistriatus Richardson 1854 (Tetraodontidae), with Notes on its Toxicity and Pufferfish Biting Behavior." Records Western Australian Museum 13 (1)(1986): 101-120, 5 Figures.
Vari, R. P., and Ortega, H. "The Catfishes of the Neotropical Family Helogenidae (Ostariophysi: Siluroidei)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 442 (1986): 1-20.
Vari, R. P., and Nijssen, H. "Curimata punctata, a New Uniquely Pigmented Species of Curimated from the Morawijne River Basin of Surinam and French Guiana (Pisces, Characiformes)." Beaufortia 36 (4)(1986): 51-55.
Vari, R. P., and Williams, A. M. "Headstanders of the Neotropical Anostomid Genus Abramites (Pisces, Characiformes)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (1)(1987): 89-104.
Wang, Xiao-ming, and Hoffmann, Robert S. "Pseudois nayaur and Pseudois schaeferi." Mammalian Species (278)(1987): 6 Pages.
Weitzman, M., and Vari, R. P. "Astyanax scologaster, A Distinctive New Species from the Upper Rio Negro of Venezuela." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (4)(1986): 707-714.
Wynn, Addison H.; Cole, Charles J.; and Gardner, Alfred L. "Apparent Triploidy in the Unisexual Brahminy Blind Snake, Ramphotyphlops braminus." American Museum Novitates 2868 (1987): 1-7.
Zug, George R. "Sternotherus." Catalogue of American Amphibians and Reptiles 397 (1986): 1-3.
Zusi, R. Le. "Skimmer." In A Dictionary of Birds. Edited by B. Campbell and E. Lack. (1985): 546-547.

<<<Page: 249>>>

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
Calumpong, H. P.; Medalla, S.; and Menez, E. G. "Taxonomy and Distribution of Seagrasses in the Gulf of Davao, Mindanao, Philippines." Philippine Journal of Science 114 (1-2)(1985): 69-85.
Calumpong, H.; Menez, E.; and Phillips, R. "Seagrasses in Batanes Province, Northern Philippines." Silliman Journal 33 (1-4)(1986): 148-154.
Dearborn, J.; Ferrari, F; and Edwards, K. "Can Pelagic Aggregations Cause Benthic Satiation? Feeding Biology of the Antarctic Brittle Star, Astrotama agassizii (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea)." Antarctic Research Series 44 (1986): 1-28.
Ferrari, F., and Bottger, R. "Sexual Dimorphism and a Sex-limited Polymorphism of Paroithona pacifica (Cyclopoida: Oithonidae) from the Red Sea." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (2)(1986): 274-285.
Knapp, L. W. "Bembridae and Platycephalidae." In Smith's Sea Fishes (1986): 481-486. Edited by M. M. Smith and P. Heemstra. Johannesburg: McMillan South Africa Ltd.
Knapp, L. W., and Wongratana, T. "Sorsogona melanoptera, a New Flathead Fish
from the Northern Indian Ocean." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (2)(1987): 381-385.
Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port
Bieler, Rudiger. "Die Gattungen der Architectonicidae (Gastropoda: Allogastropoda). Teil 4: Heliacus (Pyrgoheliacus) n. subgen. und Architectonica (Adel hotectonica) n. subgen." Frankfurt: Archiv fur Molluskenkunde 117 (4/6)(1987): 203-215.
Dineen, Jr., Joseph F. "The Larval Stages of Lithotrya dorsalis (Ellis and Solander, 1786): A Bioeroding Thoracican Barnacle." Biological Bulletin 172 (1987): 284-298.
Hines, Anson H., Jr. "Larval Patterns in the Life Histories of Brachyuran
Crabs: (Crustacea, Decapoda, Brachyura)." Bulletin of Marine Science 39
(2)(1986): 444-466.
"Larval Problems and Perspectives in Life Histories of Marine Invertebrates." Bulletin of Marine Science 39 (2)(1986): 506-525. Houbrick, Richard S. "Anatomy, Reproductive Biology, and Phylogeny of the
Planaxidae (Cerithiacea: Prosobranchia)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 445 (1987): 1-57, 27 Figures.
. "Anatomy of Alaba and Litiopa (Prosobranchia: Litiopidae): Systematic Implications." The Nautilus 101 (1)(1987):9-18.
"Transfer of Cerithiopsis crystallina Dall to the Genus Varicopeza Grundel, Family Cerithiidae." Prosobranchia: Gastropoda). The Nautilus 101 (2)(1987): 80-85.
"Anatomy and Systematic Position of Fasligiella carinata Reeve (Cerithiidae: Prosobranchia)." The Nautilus 101 (3)(1987): 101-110.
Kool, Silvard P. "The Significance of Radular Characters in Reconstruction of Thaidid Phylogeny (Neogastropoda: Muricacea)." The Nautilus 101 (3)(1987): 117-132.
Manning, Raymond B., and Felder, Darryl L. "The Status of the Callianassid Genus Callichirus Stimpson, 1866 (Crustacea: Decapoda: Thalassinidea)."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (3)(1986): 437-443.

<<<Page: 250>>>

Manning, Raymond B., and Felder, Darryl L. "Notes on Western Atlantic Callianassidae." (Crustacea: Decapoda: Thalassinidea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (2)(1987): 386-401.
Norenburg, Jon. "Redescription of a Brooding Nemertine, Cyanophthalma obscure (Schultze) gen. et comb. n., with Observations on its Biology and Discussion of the Species of Prostomatella and Related Taxa." Zoologica Scripta 15 (4)(1986): 275-293.
Okamura, Beth. "Seasonal Changes in Zooid Size and Feeding Activity in Epifaunal Colonies of Electra pilosa." In Bryozoa: Present and Past. Seventh International Conference in Bryozoa. Edited by J. R. P. Ross. (1986): 197-205. Washington University Press.
Paul, V.; Littler, M. M.; Littler, D. S.; and Fenical, W. "Chemical Defense in the Tropical Green Alga Caulerpa ashmedii (Caulerpaceae Chlorophyta) with Emphasis on New Bioactive Sesquiterpenoids." Journal of Chemical Ecology 13 (5)(1987): 1771-1185.
Pawson, David L., and Miller, John E. "Holothuria arenicola Semper, 1868 (Echinodermata, Holothuroidea): Proposed Conservation of the Specific Name. Case 2415." Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 44 (2)(1987): 114-115.
Reaka, Marjorie L., and Manning, Raymond B. "The Significance of Body Size, Dispersal Potential, and Habitat for Rates of Morphological Evolution in Stomatopod Crustacea." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 448 (1987): 1-46.
Rice, Mary E. "Factors Influencing Larval Metamorphosis in Golfingia misakiana (Sipuncula)." Bulletin of Marine Science 39 (2)(1986): 362-375.
Schiff, H., and Abbott, B. C. "Shape, Structure, and Optics of the Eyes of Two Lysiosquilloid Stomatopods." Journal of Crustacean Biology 7 (1)(1987): 158-170.
Strathmann, R. R., and McEdward, L. R. "Cyphonautes' Ciliary Sieve Breaks a Biological Rule of Inference." Biological Bulletin 171 (1986): 694-700.
Winston, Judith E., and Hakansson, Eckart. "The Insterstitial Bryozoan Fauna from Capron Shoal, Florida." American Museum Novitates 2865 (1986): 1-50.
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY Publications
Carr, Carolyn K. "The Art Collection of Edwin Coupland Shaw." The Edwin C. Shaw Collection. Akron, Ohio: Akron Art Museum, 1986. Fern, Alan M. (Foreword) The Art of Henry Inman by William H. Gerdts and Carrie Rebora, 1987. . (Foreword) Portraits from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters by Lillian B. Miller and Nancy A. Johnson, 1987. (Review) "Krazy Kat. The Comic Art of George Herriman." AIGA Journal of Graphic Design, vol. 4, no. 4, 1986 (January 1987). (Foreword) Man of the Year: A TIME Honored Tradition by Frederick S. Voss; 1987.
(Foreword) American Colonial Portraits: 1700-1776 by Ellen G. Miles and Richard H. Saunders, 1987. Henderson, Amy. "Hurrah, Farrar! The American Diva Bids Farewell to the
Met." Performing Arts Annual, 1986. The Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., pp. 38-53.

<<<Page: 251>>>

(Review) A Character of Hugh Legare by Michael O'Brien. History: Reviews of New Books, 15:1 (Fall 1986), p. 26.
(Review) "Les Miserables." South County Journal (2 April 1987), p. Dye
Kalfatovic,;-Martin R. "Faulkner's Knights Gambit." The Explicator 45 (3) (Spring 1986):47-48.
Miles, Ellen G. "Saint-Memin in the South, 1803-1809."" The Southern Quarterly xxv (no. 1) (Fall 1986):22-39.
Miles, Ellen G., and Richard H. Saunders. American Colonial Portraits: 1700-1776. Washington, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery in association with the Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
Miller, Lillian B. (Review) Drawn to Art: A Nineteenth-Century American Dream by Diane Korzenik. American Historical Review, February 1987.
(Review) The Architecture of Richard Morris Hunt, edited by Susan R.
Stein. American Historical Review, April 7, 1987.
(Review) Philadelphians and the China Trade, 1784-1844 by Jean
Gordon Lee. American Studies, vol. 27, no. 2.
Miller, Lillian B., and Nancy A. Johnson. Portraits from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. Washington, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery, 1987.
Reaves, Wendy Wick. Like and Unlike: Portrait Caricatures by Henry Major and Herman Perlman (exhibition brochure), 1987.
"Thomas Nast and the President." The American Art Journal 19 (1)
(Spring-Summer 1987):60-71.
Stewart, Robert G. (Review) Colonial American Portraiture: The Economic, Religious, Social, Cultural, Philosophical, Scientific, and Aesthetic Foundations by Wayne C. Craven. Antiques, August 1987: 262, 264.
Voss, Frederick S. "Honoring a Scorned Hero: America's Monument to Thomas
Paine." New York History 68 (2) (April 1987): 133-150.
Man of the Year: A TIME Honored Tradition. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1987.
Yellis, Kenneth A. "The Eleven Commandments of Public Programming." Museologist, May 1987. "Evaluating The Journal of Museum Education." The Journal of Museum Education 12 (1) (Winter 1987):23. "Letting Go." The Journal of Museum Education (Autumn 1987):2-3. Yellis, Kenneth A., and Education Department Staff. "The Exploring
Personality" (October 1986); "In Good Company: Plain Talk" (December 1986); "Telling Lives, II: Jon Spelman Returns" (May 1987); "American Voices" (July-August 1987); Portraits in American Song" (November 1987-
January 1988); Portraits in Motion Program Notes.

<<<Page: 252>>>

Gonzalez, Alicia. Eva Castellanoz: Corona Maker. Slide/tape program for the Idaho Commission on the Arts.
Kurin; «Richard ce"AGhetica Dhes Living: Arts of Indiasn Reply to Seneviratne," in Journal of American Folklore 100(397):307-08.
"Birth of) Bodywand Spirithudin’ Pakistan; 4 in Generations, eds. Cohn and Leach, New York: Pantheon Books and Washington: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
and Pria Devi. "Conception in India," in
Generations, eds. Cohn and Leach, New York: Pantheon Books and
Washington: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service.
. "Doctor, Lawyer, Indian: Chief; : in; Conformity and Conflict, eds. Spradley and McCurdy, Boston: Little and Brown.
"Folkways Records: The Legacy of Moses Asch Comes to the Smithsonian," in Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Edward Brown, pp. 7-10. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution. "Tslamization in Pakistan: A View from the Countryside," in Islamic Resurgence in Pakistan, ed. Anita Weiss, Syracuse: Syracuse University Press.
May-Machunda, Phyllis. "Music in Metropolitan Washington: Thriving Traditions," in Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Edward Brown, pp. 11-15. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
Proschan, Frank. "Language in the New Nation Jefferson and Rush," in Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Edward Brown, pp. 22-26. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian  Cajun Music: A Reflection of a People, by Ann Allen Savoy, in Journal of Country Music 11(3) 247-50.
"'"Lache pas la Patate:' French in Louisiana," in Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Edward Brown, pp. 32-36. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution:
Omaha Music, in American Indian Culture and Research Journal, Vol. 10.
"Celebrations: The World of Victor and Edith Turner." 16mm color sound film, 30 min.

<<<Page: 253>>>

Audiovisual Program, Orfice of Museum Pregrams. Photocr2aphnic Necatives in the Julev Collection: Their Care and Preservation. (To accompany slide pregram). Washington, Di Gun, LO87
Hicks, Ellen Cochran, Ed. Women's Chancing Roles in Museums. Washington, D.C.: Office. of * Museum Programs, 1986.
Museum Reference Center. (Office of Museum Programs). Children in Museums Bibliceraphy. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, January 1987.
. Disasters and Plannina: Earthouaekes,
Fires. Floods and Other Disasters in Cultural Institutions Bibliography. (Office of Museum Programs). Washington, D.C.: Smithscnian Institution, Revised June 1987.
.’ The Gifted Child in Museums Bibliceraphv. (Office of Museum Programs). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, July 1987.
Museum Training Biblicaraphy. (Office of
Museum Programs). Washington, D.C.: Smithscnian Institution, Revised July 1987.
. -Museworld. Washington, D.sC::
Smithscenian Institution Libraries, January-cune 1987.
. Traveling Exhibition Organizations:
Resource Guide. Smithsonian Institution, Revised June 1987.
Tymitz-Wolf, Barbara. International Congress on Learning in Museums: Evaluation Renert. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Kellogg Project, 1986.
Eoecks ard Exhibiticn Catalccues
Cohn, Amma R., amd Lucinda A. Leach. Genereticns: A Universal Family Aleem. New York: Panthecn Bccks, and Washinctcn, D.C.: Smithsonian Instituticn Traveling Exnibiticn Service, 1987.
Dutch Paintines of the Golden Ace from the Collecticn of the National Gallery of Ireiand. Washincten, D.c.: Smithscnian Instituticn Traveling Exnibiticn Service, 1987.
Eickel, Nancy, ed. Urdate, 1987. Washinctcn, D.C.: Smithscnian
ciouticn Traveling Exnibiticn Service, 1986.
Gerdcn, Peter H. Diamends Are Forever: Artists and Writers on Baseball. San Franciscs: Chronicle Becks, 1987.
Russia. The Land. The Pecole: Russian Painting, 1850-191 D.C.: Smithscnian instivution Traveling Exhibiticn §
QO. Washington, ervice, 1986.
Paver Panel Exhibition
McGrath, Susan. Diversity Endarcered. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Instituticn Traveling Exhibition Service, 1987.

<<<Page: 254>>>

Bocklets
Alward, Dale E., ed. Siteline, no. 26. Washington, D.C.: Smithscnian Instituticn Traveling Exhibition Service, 1987.
Demesey, Lori. Let Us Go to Dinner... Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Instituticn Traveling Exnibiticn Service, 1987.
Bickel, Nancy, ed. Sitsline, no 25. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Inscituticn Traveling Exhibiticn Service, 1987.
Judziewicz, Emmet J. Fields of Grass: The Varied Uses of Grasses. Washingten, D.C.: Smithscnian Instituticn Traveling Exnibition Service, 1986.
May, Laurie. Diversity Endancered: Rescurce Guide. Smithscnian
Instituticn Traveling Exnibiticn Service, 1987. Posters
Dutch Paintines of the Golden Ace Fields of Grass Generaticns
Remaking America: New Uses, Old Places Russia, The Lard, The People (2 pesters)
LowderDbaugn,. Thomas E. A “Cricical Edition of: Sir Jonn Vanbrucn’s "The Confederacv." New York: Garland Bcoks, 1987.
Majewski, Janice. Part of Your General Public Is Disabled: A Handbook for Guides in Museums, Zocs and Historic _ Houses. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, .1987.
This listing contains material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel: From Reliable Sources A half-hour film that chronicles the role of the Archives of American Art in documenting the history of American art. (AAA) Disabled Museum Visitors: Part of Your General Public A 23-minute video production designed to show docents the most effective and appropriate ways to work with disabled visitors. (OESE) Diversity Endangered A 10-minute video production demonstrating the interrelatedness of living organisms and the part man plays in disturbing or preserving the crucial balance. (OTC)

<<<Page: 255>>>

Field to Factory -1915 to 1940: The Urban North A 7-minute video production was created as an element in the "Field to Factory" exhibition. (MAH)
Northwest Coast Indian Masking A 5-minute videotape was produced as part of the Hall of Indian and Eskimo Cultures exhibition. (MNH)
HERE AT THE SMITHSONIAN... three-minute television features
This listing contains material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel: A Smithsonian Holiday Preparations for the holidays include card collection exhibition, tree trimming and gingerbread baking. (MAH) Russia: The Land, the People A new travelling exhibition gives Americans their first look at the art of late-19th-century Russia. (SITES) The Harlem Renaissance A look back at Harlem in the 1920's -a cultural Mecca for black artists, musicians, writers and thinkers of the day. (AM) A Painter at Large A 25-year retrospective of the work of James Rosenquist who became one of the most provocative exponents of Pop-art. (NMAA) From Field to Factory An exhibition chronicles the "great migration" that occurred early in the 20th century when thousands of blacks from the rural South journeyed to the industrial centers of the North searching for work. (MAH) Second Nature Canadian artist Robert Bateman discusses his depictions of wildlife in action that have made him a popular spokesman for conservation. (MNH) Engines of Change A look at the transformation of American society brought on by the 19th century's explosion of technology, now known as the Industrial Revolution. (MAH) Meet the Beetles The Insect Zoo is a place where young and old can learn about the fascinating world of insects and how entomologists study them. (MNH) Capturing the Spirit On the 60th anniversary of Lindbergh's historic crossing of the Atlantic, the story of his other important flights in this plane and how it ended up at the Smithsonian are told. (NASM) A Firm Grip on Reality While the art world of the 1940's and 50's was agog with abstract expressionism, less attention was paid to artists who continued to work in figurative realism. A new Smithsonian collection of this art is explored. (NMAA) Zoo Vets A day in the life of a veterinarian diagnosing what's ailing a snake, a gorilla or a giant panda. (NZP) Spanning the Spaces A two-sided look at the ways bridges have fostered industrial progress and inspired some of the best-known artists of the 20th century. (MAH/HMSG) American Art Deco A survey of the most important decorative style of the 1920's and 30's, whose flashy colors and streamlined shapes pervaded the design of everything from radios to Radio City Music Hall. (NMAA) The Making of a Dinosaur Scientists are dispelling some of the myths about dinosaurs while museum goers watch them unearth a dinosaur skeleton from a 10ton block of stone. (MNH) TR in Africa Museum visitors still marvel at finds from Teddy Roosevelt's March 1909 expedition to Africa, items among the Smithsonian's most valuable collections. (MNH) Contemporary Expressions The Anacostia Museum opens the doors to its new home in Southeast Washington, D.C., with a new mission and a new exhibition of works by four contemporary black artists. (AM)

<<<Page: 256>>>

Rediscovering John LaFarge A century ago his works in oil, watercolor and stained glass were considered some of the finest examples of American art. Now, after years of relative obscurity, a new exhibition is helping to restore him to prominence. (NMAA)
Folklife Festival '87 A look at what goes into organizing the Annual Festival of American Folklife featuring highlights from this year's festival. (OFP) Biosphere II In the Arizona desert scientists are creating a 24 acre, selfcontained model of Earth (Biosphere I). A Smithsonian scientist involved in the project explains it and how the model might one day lead to a space colony on Mars. (MNH)
Portrait of a Life By presenting paintings, photographs, caricatures, dramatic performances and even public discussions with living, prominent Americans, the National Portrait Gallery is redefining what a portrait can be. (NPG)
RADIO SMITHSONIAN 52 half-hour radio programs.
The partial listing of segments, which follows, contains material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel: "A More Perfect Union" Addresses the controversial relocation of Americans of Japanese ancestry during World War II and the constitutional guarantee of citizens’ rights. (MAH) "Woodrow Wilson's Fellows" A profile of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and its commitment to bringing together the world of affairs and the world of ideas. (WWICS) "Book Conservation Lab" Conservators discuss latest restoration and conservation treatments for rare materials and books. (CAL) "Dino-Revolution: Images of Dinosaurs Past and Present" Curators, researchers and artists trace the changing images of dinosaurs and their environments from the late 1800's, when they were portrayed as clumsy, pea-brained giants to today's interpretations of sleeker, smarter, more aggressive creatures. (MNH) "World Beat in the American Capital" Performances and interviews with musicians from the 21st Annual Festival of American Folklife. (OFP) "Superman: Many Lives, Many Worlds" New exhibition chronicles the history of the man of steel. (MAH) "The Feather Detective" A Smithsonian vertebrate zoologist explains her work with law enforcement officials in identifying birds. (MNH) "Artificial Heart Donation" A discussion of the Jarvik 7 artificial heart as the prototype is donated to the Smithsonian. (MAH) "America's Space Trunk" The story of the U.S. space shuttle program as told in a new exhibition. (NASM) "Mail in Motion" Letter carriers and historians reminisce about the joys, headaches and heartbreaks of America's letter carriers and demonstrate mail collection equipment techniques from 1863-1987. (MAH) "The Lindbergh Legacy" A tribute to the pilot and his aircraft on the 60th anniversary of his journey across the Atlantic. (NASM) "American Art Deco" A discussion of the most important decorative style of the late 1920's and 30's, featured in a new exhibition. (NMAA) "Thyme on My Hands" A Smithsonian entomologist and a scientific illustrator tell the story of producing a whimsical, philosophical book about gardening in the English tradition. (MNH)

<<<Page: 257>>>

"Garden Planning and Design" Horticulturists share their knowledge of site development, choice of plants and maintenance in a seminar on the basic principles of gardening. (OH)
"Haupt Garden" Planners and designers introduce the garden atop the new underground museum complex. (OH)
"Spineless Wonders" A tour of the Zoo's new first-of-its-kind exhibition of invertebrate animals. (NZP)
"Grooming the Giraffe" A taxidermist explains his craft while repairing a flooddamaged giraffe collected by Teddy Roosevelt in 1909. (MNH)
"The Far Side of Science" Cartoonist Gary Larson visits an exhibition of over 500 of his drawings while Smithsonian scientists, some of his greatest fans, comment on their favorite cartoons.
"America's Many Voices" Presentations of song, music, oratory and other folk traditions which highlight the role of language in the preservation of cultural heritage, from the 21st Annual Festival of American Folklife. (OFP) "Contemporary Visual Expressions" A tour of the inaugural exhibition at the
new location of the Anacostia Museum presenting works of four contemporary black American artists. (AM)
"The Songs and Times of Richard Allen" A tribute to the hymn writer and church builder who helped form the African Methodist Episcopal Church.
"Play by Eye" As musicians play by ear, children play by eye and describe their spontaneous creations in a workshop, which coincides with a memorial exhibition of the work of abstract painter Gene Davis. (MNAA)
"Traditional Dance and Song of the Seneca" Music and dance of the Iroquois
with commentary from ethnomusicologists and folklorists from the American Indian Program. (MAH)
"Installing the Chesapeake" Biologist Walter Adey explores the delicate ecology of the Chesapeake Bay as he recreates the world's most productive estuarine environment in a museum. (MNH)
"Scientists for a Day" The Environmental Research Center invites elementary students to study the physical properties of the Chesapeake Bay and its subestuaries. (ERC)
"The Age of the Sultan Suleyman the Magnificent" A private showing of the National Gallery's extraordinary exhibition honoring the "Grand Turk” who led the Ottoman Empire to its cultural peak. (FGA)
"The Constitution: Youth and Justice" Teens from across the country meet with constitutional scholars for a debate on contemporary issues, coinciding with
the Smithsonian's International Symposium commemorating 200 Years of the Constitution. (OIS)
"Second Nature" Two exhibitions celebrate the work of contemporary wildlife artist Robert Bateman and the man whose work inspired him, John James Audubon. (MNH) "The Making of a Dinosaur" A behind-the-scenes look at a working fossil preparation laboratory where technicians chisel away at a ten ton block of rock in search of a dinosaur. (MNH)
"Visualizing the Impossible" Sculptor Nancy Graves discusses her creative and evocative art in conjunction with a major retrospective of her work. (HMSG)
"Is There Life in Outer Space?" Scientists involved in current research into extraterrestrial life debate the possibility of life on distant worlds and recent attempts to locate it. (RAP)
"Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems" Anthropologists and paleobiologists discuss ways of comparing land ecosystems through time. (MNH)
"The Supreme Camouflage Artist" Entomologist David Nickle returns from Peru
to discuss Amazon Katydids and their fantastically varied songs and appearances. (MNH )

<<<Page: 258>>>

"Insect Zoo" School groups tour an exhibit hall devoted solely to insects and their relatives. (MNH)
"The Information Revolution" An installation scheduled for 1989 is one of the Smithsonian's most ambitious exhibitions ever and is devoted to the history
and operation of computers. (MAH)
"Intelligence: Natural and Artificial" Computer scientists say the next generation of computer hardware will "think" as well as blink. At the Smithsonian
and the National Geographic Society, a look at how the human brain works and how well computers of the future will be able to duplicate it. (MAH)
"The Pedal and the Mettle" A new book chronicles the history and lore of the independent trucker. (SIP)
"Silver Anniversary Portrait" A salute to the National Portrait Gallery as
it enters its 25th year. (NPG)
"Via Air Express" Curator Ron Davies chronicles the 70-year history of getting it there overnight. (NASM)
"Sigmund Romberg: Will You Remember?" The story of the Hungarian-born composer whose operetta music helped lay the foundation for American popular song with research specialist Dwight Bowers. (MAH)
"Fiddler on the Beach" At the Marine Biology Laboratory at STRI, biologist John Christy studies the ubiquitous but mysterious fiddler crab. (STRI)
"Engines of Change" A new exhibition details the transformation of American society brought on by the 19th century's explosion of technology, now known
as the Industrial Revolution. (MAH)
"From Field to Factory" Historian Spencer Crew discusses his efforts to chronicle the "great migration" of hundreds of thousands of blacks from the rural South to the industrial centers of the North as they searched for work. (MAH) "The Portrait in Miniature" Curator Robin Bolton-Smith discusses a new gallery devoted to the unique medium of the miniature--popular in the 1700's and enjoying a revival today. (NMAA)
"The Portrait Writ Large" A 25-year retrospective of the work of James Rosenquist, one of the most provocative exponents of Pop-art. (NMAA)
"Genius at the Margins" A display of books from the Dibner Library, dating
back to the 15th century, complete with the handwritten annotations of the brilliant scientists who used them in their work. (MAH)
"The Wildest Food on Earth" Stalking the elusive "free lunch" with the wild plant fancier Ruth Smith. (MNH)
"The Best Food in Space" An exhibition reveals the ways and means of weightless cuisine. (NASM)
"Commuters on the Orient Express" Dr. John Anderson, Jr., this year's Lindbergh Scholar, discusses the work now being done to develop a hypersonic airplane that can fly from New York to Tokyo in two hours. (NASM)
"Passage by Pachyderm" Caroline Stanley-Millson details her use of elephants
as transportation and special helpers in her studies of tribal architecture
in Southern India. (NZP)
"A Century of Struggle" A look at how far labor has come coincides with the centennial of the American Federation of Labor. (MAH)
"Families" Family stories gathered from across America form a tribute to the Christmas season. (OTC)
"The Holiday Spirit" A celebration of the holidays with international music, craftspeople and "The Trees of Christmas." (MAH)
"Russia: The Land, The People" An exhibition of late-19th-century Russian
art tours the U.S. under the auspices of the Smithsonian's Traveling Exhibition Service and sparks a major gathering of scholars to discuss art, culture and politics of 19th-century Russia. (SITES)
wv A | oa |

<<<Page: 259>>>

"The Hawk That's Ruled by a Mouse” Ornithologist Frances Hammerstrom has spent years pursuing the secrets of the Marsh Hawk on the Wisconsin prairies and published her studies in a new book. (SIP)
"Bee Eater Society" Studies of a species of bee eaters, an African bird, reveal an advanced social order with elaborately extended families. (MNH)
"The People of China" Artist Lunda Hoyle Gill's portraits reflect the faces
of the world's most populous nation. (MNH)
"Italy's Golden Age of Flight" An exhibition honors the centennial of the birth of Italian avaition pioneer Gianni Caproni whose plane flew history's first paying passenger. (NASM)
"The Rise of the Fighter Aircraft" Aviation historian Richard Hallion recounts the advent of fighter planes and fighter pilots in World War I. (NASM)
"The Sands of the Nile" Oceanographer Daniel Stanley, one of the world's foremost authorities on marine sedimentology, describes the past, present and future of the river that feeds a nation. (MNH)
"The Making of Deserts" Why and how are deserts formed? Can we avoid killing droughts? These are some of the questions pursued by geologists using Landsat images and on-site observations in Africa. (NASM)
"Discoveries from Ancient Rome" Herculaneum was recently unearthed and is proving to be even better preserved than Pompeii; Baldo Conticello, superintendent, describes the site. (MNH) :
"Ice Age History" Glacial periods of the world are reviewed by Museum of Natural History's director Robert Hoffman. (MNH)
"Jivaro Diary" Explorer/researcher Robert McCracken Peck recounts his recent travels in the Cordillera de Cutucu in Ecuador, home of the Jivaro Indians,
best known for their headhunting proclivities. (MNH)
"Turkey Calls, Rice Straw and the Law" A review of the crafts and craftspeople, folk and folklore from the 20th Annual Festival of American Folklife, featuring Japan and Tennessee as well as the lore of trial lawyers. (OFP)
"Black, White and Blues" Music from the Folklife Festival serves as the source for a program examining the roots of American music and the connections between the folk music of the many cultures that converged in the formative years of
the United States. (OFP)
"Virtuosi, Part Two" (lst program aired in FY 1986) Highlights from the Smithsonian Collection of Recordings' recent release, a package of rare selections dating back to 1926 and featuring performances by such masters as Reginald Kell, Yehudi Menuhin, Dennis Brain, and Leon Goossens with commentary by critic and annotator Richard Freed. (SIP)

<<<Page: 260>>>

Williams, Martin, "How Long Has This Been Going On? II Changes
in Changes." Jazz Times February 1987.
; "How Long Has This Been Going On? III In Praise of Eric Dolphy." Jazz Times March 1987.
i ""How Long Has This Been Going On? IV The Fruits of Conservatism." Jazz Times April 1987.
, "Jazz in New Grove Dictionary of American Music?" Sonneck Society Bulletin, Summer 1987.
, “Duke Ellington The Grand Old Man of Jazz" . Washington Post Book World, September 20, 1987.
, "John D. MacDonald at his Peak." Washington Post Book World, January 17, 1988.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION Office of Information Resource Management
Russo, Joseph L. "The Stability of Classification and Phylogenetic Uncertainty: Scombroidei, a Case Study." Presented at the Sixth Annual meeting of the Willi Hennig Society, New York, N.Y., November 7-10, 1986.
Sledge, Jane. "Survey of Collections Management Systems and PracticeThe United States and Canada." Presented at the International Conference on Collections Management for Museums, organized by Museum Documentation Association, Cambridge, England,
September 26-29, 1987.
Toney, Stephen R. "Is Data Administration Part of IRM Policy and Planning or Part of Systems Development?" Presented at Naval Sea Systems Command Data Base User Group Conference, Long Beach,
California, December 3, 1986.
"Planning Techniques for Collections Information Systems." Presented at Museum Documentation Association Conference, Cambridge, England, September 27, 1987.
Walker, Ralph. "SST The Smithsonian Simple Typesetting" System Procedure of XPLOR International 7th Annual Conference, Vol. II, Sec. 35.
Office of Printing and Photographic Services
Photographic Services, Smithsonian Institution. Reflections On The Wall, The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, 160 pp., Stackpole Books, Harrisburg, Pa: Principal photographers: Richard Hofmeister, Dane Penland, Jeff Tinsley, Jeffrey Ploskonka. Designed by Jim Wallace, Director OPPS. Text by Edward Clinton Ezell, Curator Armed forces History, NMAH.

<<<Page: 261>>>

RIF Newsletter. Published three times a year, the Newsletter reports on RIF activities nationwide. A technical assistance insert, addressing local projects' requests for information on how to motivate youngsters to read, is included in Newsletters sent to RIF projects. The Newsletter reaches 24,000 people throughout the United States and offshore territories.
The RIF Guide to Encouraging Young Readers (Doubleday, 1987). A sourcebook of activities, children's book suggestions, and resources for parents.
Reading Is Fundamental. A newly published brochure describing the organization and its accomplishments.
"Parent Guide" Brochures. A series of seven brochures on the topics "Choosing Good Books for Your Children," "TV and Reading," "Reading Aloud to Your Children," "Upbeat and Offbeat Activities to Encourage Reading," "Teenagers and Reading," "Children Who Can Read, But Don't...," "Encouraging Soon-To-Be Readers."
Books to Grow On: A Parent's Guide to Encouraging Young Readers. A resource for parents of children from infancy to age eleven.
The RIF Book of Ideas. A series of booklets on fundraising, selecting books for young people, and motivating children to read.
I Want You. A brochure to assist RIF projects in recruiting and training volunteers.
Reading Is Fun! Tips for Parents. A booklet offering suggestions on how to encourage children up to the age of eight to read.
Children's Bookshelf. An annotated list of 106 books for children up to the age of eleven.
Profiles. Descriptions of the publishers and distributors that serve RIF projects. The Profiles list special discounts and services offered by each supplier and are distributed annually to all projects.

<<<Page: 262>>>

Appendix 7
The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1987
The Secretary
Executive Assistant
Special Assistant
Administrative Assistant (Appointments)
Supervisor, Secretary's Files
The Under Secretary Administrative Assistant
Director
Deputy Director
Assistant Directors Audits
Investigator Administrative Officer
General Counsel Associate General Counsels
Assistant General Counsels
Robert McCormick Adams James M. Hobbins Joseph Coudon
Mary Lee Nissley Betty J. Edwards
Dean W. Anderson Teresa E. Pietroski
Patrick J. Stanton
vacant Jerry L. Chandler John C. Fawsett
Richard H. Cook Sandra J. Anderson
Peter G. Powers
Robert A. Dierker George S. Robinson Alan D. Ullberg
James D. Douglas
Lauryn Guttenplan Grant Elaine L. Johnston Sharon White Senghor Marsha S. Shaines
James I. Wilson
i) A A

<<<Page: 263>>>

Assistant Secretary for Research Executive Officer
Program Manager Research Program Specialist
Editor
Assistant Editor Assistant Editor Assistant Editor Administrative Officer
Director Registrar Development Officer
Chief, Office of Public Affairs Chief, Office of Education
Executive Officer and
Chief, Office of Management Services Budget Officer
Computer Specialist
Personnel Specialist
Associate Director
Assistant Director for Conservation and Captive Breeding Programs
Assistant Director for Research
General Curator
Veterinarian-in-Charge Associate Veterinary Animal Physiologist
David Challinor Harold J. Michaelson Rita R. Jordan
Ross B. Simons Rita R. Jordan
Marc Rothenberg Kathleen W. Dorman John C. Rumm
Paul H. Theerman Beverly Jo Lepley
Michael H. Robinson Judith Block
Elsa Jablonski Robert J. Hoage Judith White
Vincent J. Doyle James E. Fitzpatrick Peter B. Kibbee Johnnie Smith
Gaetano G. Calise, Jr.
Christen M. Wemmer Devra G. Kleiman
Benjamin B. Beck
R. Mitchell Bush
(retired)
Lyndsay G. Phillips, Jr.
David E. Wildt

<<<Page: 264>>>

Research Associates
Prabir Chakroborty Stephen J. OBrien
Collaborators
Michael D. Abramowitz Max J. Appel
M. Kathryn Hammock
A. Everette James, Jr. Bill Lasley
Carroll Platz
Edward Ruley
DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY Patho logist-in-Charge
Research Associates Richard Alsaker Chris Gardiner Michael Loomis Bruce Smith Bernard Zook
ANIMAL EXHIBIT DEPARTMENTS General Curator
Curator Associate Curator
Collection Managers
Lisa Stevens William Xanten
Curator Collection Manager
DEPARTMENT OF ORNITHOLOGY Curator
Assistant Curator Collection Manager
Beverly Gilroy
Richard Alsakar Kenneth C. Bove David S. Herring Seth W. Kotch Douglas W. McKay William J. Ravich Patricia Schmidt
Richard J. Montali
Max J. G. Appel Kathryn Holmes John Pletcher
John Strandberg
Benjamin B. Beck
Edwin Gould John Seidensticker
Elizabeth Frank Edward Bronikowski
DaleMarcellini Michael Davenport
Scott Derrickson Charles Pickett Paul Tomassoni

<<<Page: 265>>>

Curator
Assistant Director for Research Scientific Staff
Daryl J. Boness Olav T. Oftedal Miles Roberts
Population Manager Research Associates
Mary Allen
Carolyn M. Crockett James Dietz
John Frazier Theodore I. Grand Susan Lumpkin
Nancy Muckenhirn Douglas Richards Melvin Sunquist Steven D. Thompson
Assistant Director for Conservation and Captive Breeding Programs
Facilities Manager Research Associates
Peter August Steven Berwick Charles McDougal J. L. David Smith Richard Watling
Fellows and Associates
Lee Boyd
Eric Dinnerstein John Lehmkuh1 Hemanta Mishra
Jaren Horsley
Devra G. Kleiman
Eugene S. Morton Katherine S. Ralls Rasanayagam Rudran
Jonathan Ballou
Gerald Borgia
Priya Davidar Wolfgang P. J. Dittus John Gittleman Russell G. Greenberg Jeffrey A. McNealy Galen B. Rathbun
John Robinson
Betsy Trent Thomas Susan Wilson
Christen M. Wemmer
John N. Williams
Joel Berger Catherine Blohowiak Illar Muul
Michael Stlwe
Susan Crissey Stefan Holzenbein Narayen Mehata George Schwede

<<<Page: 266>>>

Chief, Office of Facilities
Management David Boothe Chief, Office of Construction Management Donald Muddiman Chief, Office of Graphics and Exhibits Robert E. Mulcahy Chief, Office of Police and Safety Samuel L. Middleton, Jr.
Executive Director Sanders Lewallen
Director Wilcomb E. Washburn Secretary Ruby Hamblen
Director Roberta W. Rubinoff Assistant Director Elizabeth W. Veatch Administrative Officer Catherine F. Harris Academic Programs Specialist Amelia Crittenberger
Jacki Thompson Rand Academic Programs Assistant Dan Center
Lori Deitz Carolin McManus
Director Irwin I. Shapiro
Associate Directors
Planning Bruce Gregory Atomic and Molecular Physics William H. Parkinson High Energy Astrophysics Harvey Tananbaum Optical and Infrared Astronomy David W. Latham

<<<Page: 267>>>

Brian Marsden
(through December 31, 1986, John A. Wood) James M. Moran
(through December 31, 1986, A. Edward Lilley) Andrea K. Dupree
Alan P. Lightman (Acting)
(through December 31, 1986, George B. Rybicii)
Planetary Sciences Radio and Geoastronomy
Solar and Stellar Physics Theoretical Astrophysics
Department Heads
Richard B. Dias James B. Conklin, Jr. George D. Dick Robert T. Ayer Harris E. Rosenthal James C. Cornell, Jr.
Central Engineering Computation Facility Contracts and Procurement Controller’s Office Personnel
Publications
Giovanni G. Fazio George B. Field Edward L. Fireman William Forman Fred A. Franklin Larry Gardner John C. Geary Margaret Geller Owen Gingerich Isabella Gioia Zachary Goldberg Leon Golub
Paul Gorenstein Mario Grossi Stephen L. Guberman
Luis A. Aguilar Keith Arnaud
Yoram Avni
Eugene H. Avrett Robert W. Babcock Sallie L. Baliunas Jonn Biretta
Eric Bloemhof Donato Bramanti Victoria Buch
C. Nelson Caldwell Nathaniel P. Carleton Frederic H. Chaffee, Jr. Kelly V. Chance John F. Chandler
Jon H. Chappell
M. Mark Colavita Allan F. Cook, 0 John J. Cowan
Alex Dalgarno Thomas M. Dame Robert J. Davis Valerie de Lapparent Andrzej K. Drukier Martin S. Elvis Robert Estes Giuseppina Fabbiano Daniel G. Fabricant Emilio Falco-Acosta
Gordon Gullahorn Alan H. Guth
Carl R. Gwinn Shadia Habbal Thomas Hamilton F.R. Harnden, Jr. Daniel Harris
Lee W. Hartmann Akihiko Hashimoto John Hiilier
John P. Huchra Jonn Hughes
Luigi Jacchia Christine Jones-Forman

<<<Page: 268>>>

Kenneth Kalata Wolfgang Kalkofen Margarita Karovska Scott Kenyon
Kate Kirby
David G. Koch John L. Kohl Lawrence Krauss Michael Kurtz Robert L. Kurucz Cedric Lacey Myron Lecar Russel] M. Levreault A. Edward Lilley Enrico Lorenzini Tommaso Maccacaro Ursula B. Marvin Robert D. Mathieu Edward Mattison Jeffrey McClintock Richard E. McCrosky Robert McMahon Gary J. Melnick Lawrence A. Molnar Stepnen Murray Philip Myers
Peter Nisenson Robert W. Noyes Leonid Ozernoy Samuel Palmer Costas Papaliolios Michael Pearlman Francis Primini Harrison E. Radford Jonn C. Raymond
Robert Reasenberg Mark J. Reid Robert Rosner George B. Rybicki Rudolph Schild Matthew H. Schneps Daniel Schwartz Joseph Schwarz Frederick Seward Michael Shao
Jack Slowey
Robert Stachnik
J. Gregory Stacy Robert P. Stefanik Patrick Thaddeus Wesley Traub Ginevra Trincnieri Wallace H. Tucker Giuseppe Vaiana Aad Van Ballegooijen Leon Van Speybroecx Robert Vessot George A. Victor Trevor C. Weekes Steven Weinberg Fred L. Whipple Charles A. Whitney Belinda Wilkes Steven P. Willner George L. Withbroe Anna Wolter
John A. Wood Diana Worrall Kouichi Yoshino Martin Zombeck

<<<Page: 269>>>

Acting Director David L. Correll Administrative Officer Helen M. Dalaski Facilities Manager Gary M. Melvin
Program Assistants for Public Information Linda M. Chick Tom Wisner
Research Scientists
Agricultural Engineer Paul J. Robert Ecologists Thomas E. Jordan Geoffrey G. Parker Modeler Donald E. Weller Plant Ecologists Peter S. Curtis
Allison A. Snow Dennis F. Whigham
Plant Physiologist Bert G. Drake
Zoologists Anson H. Hines James F. Lynch
Microbiologist Charles L. Gallegos
jRaleotelatt plore! William W. Mess Cescuty Archivist William A. Deiss Asscciate Archivists Alan L. Bain
Diane L. Veot-O'Csnner fistorian Pamela M. Henscn
Siseant, ArcaLviscs William E. Cox Susan W. Glenn Willi R. Massa, Jr.
James A. Stsed
Acting Director Vija L. Karklins Manager, Planning & Administration Mary Augusta Rosenfeld Administrative Assistant Laudine C. Creighton Publications Officer Nancy L. Matthews
Deputy Director and
Manager, Automated Systems Division Vija L. Karklins
Systems Administrator Thomas Garnett Assistant Systems Administrator Marcia L. Adams
Chief, Automated Bibliographic Control Victoria Avera Librarian, ABC Sheila Riley
Chief, Catalogue Records Brooke Henley

<<<Page: 270>>>

Program Chief, Original Cataloguing and Indexing Services
Cataloguer
Cataloguer
Cataloguer, Special Collections
Cataloguer, Special Collections
Technical Information Specialist
Assistant Director and Manager, Research Services Division Central Services Unit Unit Manager & Chief Librarian, Central Reference & Loan Services Branch Reference Librarian, CRLS Branch Library of Congress Liaison Chief Librarian, Museum Reference Center Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, MSC Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, MSC History and Art Unit Unit Manager & Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAH Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAH Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAH Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, OH Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, CHM Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAFA Special Collections Chief Librarian, Special Collections Branch
Natural Sciences Unit Unit Manager & Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH
Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NZP
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, SERC Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, STRI Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, STRI
Physical Sciences Unit
Unit Manager & Chief Librarian,
SIL Branch, NASM Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM Technical Information
Specialist, SIL Branch, NASM Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, SAO
Assistant Director and Manager, Collections Management Division
Helen Nordberg Margaret A. Sealor Bertha H. Sonn Mary L. Elder Mayda Riopedre Mimi Scharf
Margaret §. Child
Maureen L. Canick Barbara Veloz Scott Berger Catherine D. Scott Karen Preslock Angela Haggins
Rhoda S. Ratner Charles Berger James Roan
Susan Gurney Katharine Martinez Janet L. Stanley
Ellen B. Wells
Ann Juneau
Mary K. Davies Ruth Schallert Robert Skarr David Steere
Kay Kenyon
Angela Haggins Sylvia Churgin Roberto Sarmiento
Martin Smith Mary Clare Gray Amy Levin
Philip Edwards Joyce Rey-Watson
Nancy E. Gwinn
iw) ON Wo

<<<Page: 271>>>

Chief, Acquisition Services Supervisor, Monographs Section Supervisor, Serials Section Supervisor, Binding Section
Chief Conservator, Book Conservation Laboratory
Conservator Conservator Research Associate Research Associate
Pauline T. Lesnik William B. Neff Lucien R. Rossignol James —. Lawson
John H. Hyltoft Joyce Dreyfuss Maria Nugent
Silvio A. Bedini Jean Chandler Smith
Director Acting Director
Acting Deputy Director
Senior Scientist
Executive Officer
Special Assistant to the Director Conservation Resources Manager Facilities Manager
Chief, Procurement Section Personnel Specialist
Coordinator, Educational Programs
Budget Analyst
John H. Christy Richard G. Cooke Robert L. Dressler William G. Eberhard Stephen P. Hubbell Jeremy B. C. Jackson Leslie Johnson (began 06/87) Nancy Knowlton Egbert G. Leigh, Jr. Harilaos A. Lessios
Ira Rubinoff James R. Karr (07/87 07/88) Alan P. Smith (07/87 07/88) Martin H. Moynihan Leonor Motta Elena Lombardo Gilberto Ocafia Ramon Ely Mercedes Arroyo Carmen Sucre Georgina de Alba Argelis Roman (08/86 12/87) Carlos Urbina
Olga F. Linares A. Stanley Rand D. Ross Robertson Arcadio Rodaniche David W. Roubik Neal G. Smith Nicolas Smythe Mary Jane West-Eberhard Donald M. Windsor Hindrik Wolda
S. Joseph Wright

<<<Page: 272>>>

Annette Aiello
Robin Andrews
Carlos Arellano Lennox Charles Bennett, Jr. John Bort
Nicholas Brokaw Gordon M. Burghardt Terry E. Christensen Mireya Correa
Luis D’Croz
Kerry Ann Dressler Robin Foster
Nathan Gale
Pedro Galindo
Judy Gradwohl Jeffrey B. Graham
Stanley Heckadon Leslie Johnson Ross Kiester Yael Lubin
Ernst Mayr
Jorge Motta Anthony Ranere Michael Ryan Myra Shulman Gordon B. Small W. John Smith
F. Gary Stiles Henry Stockwell Katherine Troyer Paulo E. Vanzolini Fritz Vollrath
Assistant Secretary Deputy Assistant Secretary Program Manager
Program Manager Administrative Officer Program Analyst Administrative Assistant
Director
Administrative Officer
Historian
Exhibits Program Manager
Education Specialist
Supervisory Visual Information Specialist
Supervisory Exhibits Specialist
Photographer
Tom L. Freudenheim Elaine Heumann Gurian Beverly Lang
Barbara K. Schneider Patricia A. DuVall Thomas J. Peyton William E. Lowry
John R. Kinard Audrey Archer Jeffrey Stewart vacant
Zora Martin Felton
Sharon A. Reinckens James E. Mayo Harold Dorwin

<<<Page: 273>>>

Washington Headquarters Office Director Senior Curator Curator of Manuscripts Collections Manager Area Collector Administrative Officer
New York Headquarters Office Deputy Director
Midwest Regional Center Regional Director
New York Regional Center Regional Director
New England Regional Center Regional Director
West Coast Regional Center
Regional Director
Richard N. Murray Garnett McCoy Arthur Breton Judy E. Throm Liza Kirwin Sherrill Berger
Susan Hamilton
Sue Ann Kendall
William McNaught
Robert Brown
Paul Karlstrom
Southern California Research Center
Area Collector
Stella Paul
Director
Assistant Director, Sackler Gallery
Assistant Director, Freer Gallery
Assistant Director, Administration
Curator, Chinese Art
Curator, Near Eastern Art
Assistant Curator, Ancient Near Easter Art
Assistant Curator, American Art
Assistant Curator, Japanese Art
Head, Special Programs
Thomas Lawton Milo C. Beach Richard Louie Sarah L. Newmeyer Shen Cc. Y. Fu Glenn D. Lowry
Ann Gunter Linda Merrill Ann Yonemura Esin Atil

<<<Page: 274>>>

Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory
Head Conservation Specialist
Museum Specialist (Ceramics)
Exhibition Designer
Head Librarian
Head Registrar
Head, Publications
Head Photographer
Director, Merchandising and Marketing
Director of Education
Public Affairs Officer
Acting Docent Coordinator
Honorary Associate
W. Thomas Chase, III Ryo Nishiumi
Louise A. Cort Patrick H. Sears, III Lily Kecskes
Eleanor Radcliffe Karen Sagstetter
Kim Nielsen
Rosaria Guaragna Lucia B. Pierce Susan D. Bliss Susan Grigsby Richard Edwards
Acministraticn Director Decuty Director Acministrative Officer
Sr. Technical Informaticn Srecialise Sr. Conservaticn Information Aide
Archaecmetry
Acministzator, Archaecmetry Senior Research Archacelegist Senior Research Chemist Senicr Research Fhysicist Chemist
Conservation
Surervisory Conservator Senior Textile Conservatcr Senior Paintincs Conservator Senior Cbjects Conservator Chjects Conservator
Cbhjects Conservator
Senior Parer Conservator Senior Parer Conservator Senior Furniture Conservator Furniture Conservator
Lambercus van Zelst Alan W. Pesctlethwaite Vermetza M. Williams Marjcrie W. Clevelard Sherry L. Medley
Jacqueline S. Olin Renald L. Bishcp M. James Blackman
Yu-Tarng Cieng Emile C. Jcel
Eleanor McMillan Mary W. Ballard Roland H. Cimnincham Carol A. Grisscm Mary L. Gardin
Denna K. Stranan Timothy J. Vitale Dianne van der Reycen Marc A. Williams Donald Williams

<<<Page: 275>>>

Censervaticn Science
Organic Chem., Gircup Leader Researcn Creanic Chemist Research Organic Chemise
Organic Chemist
Inorganic Chem., Group Lead
Electron Micrcescepist
Metallurgist
Censervaticn Scientist
Ceramic Scientist Chemist
Senior Research Scientisc Research Materials Engineer
David W. Ven Enct Mary T. Baker
W. David Erhardt Walter R. Hcrwccd Ecward V. Sayre Melanie E. Feather Marcha E. Gcccway Jcan W. Mishara Pamela Vandiver Harold Westley Timothy D. Padfield
Maricn F. Mecklenburg
Research Asscciates and Collaborators
Research Asscciate Researcn Asscciata Research Asscociats
Research Collaborator Researcn Collakorator Researcn Collarcratsr Researcn Collarcrator Researcn Collaborator
Visiting Scientist
Visiting Scientist Fellcws
Resents Fellcw
Material Analysis Fellcw Material Analysis Fellcw
Intsms
Pestsgracuat= Intern, Festoeracuats Inter, Intam, Cbjects Inter, Cbhjects Poestcracuate Intern, Pescesracuats Inter, Inter, Parer Intem, Parer Intern, Textiles Inter, Textiles Intern, Textiles ter, Textiles
Cbhjects Cbjects
Paintings Paintings
Susan Hcbbs Rerert M. Organ Rita P. Wright Marilyn Beaudry Nancy Benco Patricia Crcwn Emlen Myers
Derie Reents-2udet
Veletta Cancuts
W. David Kincery Rebert Ehrenreich Eectcr Nerf
Ann tcn Constance Stremcerg Theresa Powers Jeffery Kimball Ceroran Lieoran Inorid Lucena Lynn Brestrort Michelle Hamill Laura Hazletz Esther Methe Resemarie Selm Jill Sicman

<<<Page: 276>>>

Director Assistant Director
Administrator Administrative Specialist Membership & Development Officer Membership Assistant Curator of Drawings and Prints Assistant Curator of Drawings and Prints
Curator of Textiles Assistant Curator of Textiles Curator of Decorative Arts Museum Technician for Wallcoverings Conservator, Paper Conservator, Textiles Designer Curator of Exhibitions Exhibition Researcher Editor Registrar Assistant Registrar Automation Services Manager Program Coordinator
rogram Coordinator
Public Information Manager Public Information Assistant Special Events Coordinator Museum Shop Manager Facilities Manager
Assistant Facilities Manager Chief of Security
Librarian
Lisa Taylor (Retired June 1987)
Harold Francis Pfister (Acting Director from June 1987)
Linda Dunne
William Gaske
Georze Nichols
Judy Soffian
Elaine Evans Dee
Gail Davidson Milton Sonday Gillian Moss
David Revere Mc¥adden Ann Dorfsman Konstanze Bachmann Lucy Commoner vacant
Dorothy Globus Lucy Fellowes Nancy Aakre Cordelia Rose Steven Langehough Jay Vanatta
Susan Yelavich George King
Arthur Lindo Michele Raphoon Anne Patterson Polly Dufresne Jim Ledford
Barry Johnson
Luis Palau Katherine Martinez
Direccor
Deputy Director
Executive Officer
Chief Curator for Exhibitions Curator of Exhtbrtirons Curator of Prints/Drawings Associate Curators
* died November 5, 1986
James T. Demetrion Stephen E. Weil
Nancy Kirkpatrick Edwin Rifkin
Cynthia Jaffee McCabe* Frank Gettings
Valerie Fletcher Phyllis Rosenzweig Judith Zilczer

<<<Page: 277>>>

Librarian Chief Conservator Conservators
Registrar
Chief, Exhibits and Design Chief, Education
Public Information Officer Photographer
Building Manager
Director Besuty Director Assistant for Srecial Projects Chief, Public Affairs Membership ard Corecrat= Relations Officer
Chairman, Derarmnent of Aercnautics Stecial Acviscr fer Technolccy Senior Curator
Curators
Asscciats Curator Assistant Curator Histcrian
Bisesr: Emerit.
ry ; fh vD H
Chairman, Cantez fe Planetary Studies Geolegists
Research Asscciats
Acting Chairman, Srace Science and Exploration Cerarmnent
Curaters
Asscciat2= Curator Assistant Curator
Historian
Chief, Publicaticns
Chief, Voluntser Services Caief, Educaticn
Manacer, Cccrerative Programs
Anna Brooke Laurence Hoffman Leland Aks Clarke Bedford Susan Lake Meredith Michelson Wippman Douglas Robinson Edward Schiesser Edward Lawson Sidney Lawrence Lee Stalsworth Frank Underwood
Ven D. Harcesty Howard S. Wolko Rekert C. Mikesh R. E. G. Davies Claudia M. Cakes Deminick A. Pisano Reber= van der Linden Fetter L. Jakab Paul E. Garrer
Ted A. Maxwell Patricia A. Jacckberger Priscilla L. Strain Thomas R. Watters Constance G. Andre
Jcsercn N. Tatarewicz David H. DeVericin Allan A. Neecell Paul E. Caruz2zi Dersk W. Ellict= Frank H. Winter Cathleen S. Lewl
Patricia J. Grabcske Patricia M. Long Kasse Ancrews-weller Helen C. McMahcn

<<<Page: 278>>>

Assistant Director fer Collecticns Management Foreman, Preaservaticn Restoration Divisicn Chief, Collecticns Maintenance Chier, Art Cerartment Chief, Informaticn Management Registrar
Assistant Director fer
Cutreach and Emplcyee Preorem Manacer
Assistant Director for Exhibits Chief, Design Unit Gnier .. Peccucticon Unit Chier, Audicvisual Unit
Assistant Director for Museum Creraticns Theater and Planetarium Manager Ciuief, Planetarium Museum Facilities Manacer Cffica Autcmaticn Manager
7, anar
Pu isner
Associate Publisher, Advertising
Circulation Director
Business Manager
Production Manager
Consultants to the Magazine NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART
Director
Associate Director for Collections and Research
Assistant Director
Chief Curator
Linda N. Ezell
Richard D. Horigan, Jr. Alfred J. Bachmeier Mary S. Henderscn
Karl P. Suthard Rebin A. Schrorfel
Wercy A. Stercnens M. Antoinett= Amcs
Nacya A. Makovenyi Lucius E. Lomax Harold J. -Pispin David N. Heck
E. T. Weoldridse Renald E. Waceman James H. Snarp Clauce D. Russell sed Kincaid
George Larson Tom Huntington
Lee Battaglia
Sylvia H. Williams
Roy Sieber Jean Salan Philip Ravenhill

<<<Page: 279>>>

Curators Assistant Curators
Public Affairs Officer Director of Development Curator of Education Chief, Exhibition Production Chief, Office of Design Conservator
Photo Archivist
Librarian
Docent/Intern Coordinator Writer/Editor
Graphic Designer Photographer
Founding Director Emeritus and Senior Scholar
Lydia Puccinelli Roslyn A. Walker Bryna Freyer Andrea Nicolls Margaret Bertin Donna Ari
Edward Lifschitz Basil Arendse Richard Franklin Stephen Mellor Judith Luskey Janet Stanley Marjorie Turgel Dean Trackman Christopher Jones Jeffrey Ploskonka
Warren Robbins
Director Deputy Director
Charles C. Eldredge Charles J. Robertson
Elizabeth Broun Barbara Shissler Nosanow Sherwood A. Dowling
Assistant Director and Chief Curator Assistant Director, Museum Programs Assistant Director, Museum Resources
Deputy Assistant Director for
Museum Programs Administrative Officer Research Curator
Curator-in-Charge, Renwick Gallery
Curator-in-Charge, Sculpture
Painting and
Curators, Painting and Sculpture
Associate Curators, Sculpture
Painting and
Associate Curator, Sculpture
Painting and
Curator-in-Charge, Graphic Arts Associate Curators, Graphic Arts
Assistant Curator, Studio House Senior Conservator
Barney
Judith R. O'Sullivan Maureen E. Damaska Lois M. Fink Michael W. Monroe (since 5/31/86) Virginia M. Mecklenburg (since 6/21/87) William H. Truettner Harry Z. Rand
Robin L. Bolton-Smith Jacquelyn Serwer (until 3/28/87)
Lynda Roscoe Hartigan (since 3/29/87) Joann G. Moser Martina R. Norelli Merry A. Foresta
Jean L. Kling Stefano Scafetta

<<<Page: 280>>>

Conservators
Registrar
Assistant Registrar for Loans
Assistant Registrar for Packing and Shipping
Chief, Office of Design and Production
Ann M. Creager
R. Quentin Rankin
Fern Bleckner
Katherine Maynor (since 11/3/86)
W. Robert Johnston
Melissa L. Kroning
Michael R. Smallwood
James W. Volkert
Chief Designer, Office of Design and
Production
Chief, Office of Research Support
Coordinator, Computer Resources
Coordinator, Inventory of American Paintings
Chief, Office of Publications
Chief, Office of Public Affairs
Chief, Office of Intern Programs
Head, Special Services Programs
Head, Docents and Volunteer Services
Chief Photographer
Librarian NMAA/NPG
Assistant Librarian NMAA/NPG Building Manager NMAA/NPG
Val E. Lewton
Rachel M. Allen (since 6/21/87)
Elizabeth L. Murphy
Christine M. Hennessey Gaye L. Brown Margery A. Byers Patricia H. Chieffo Margaret P. Cogswell Nora M. Panzer Michael G. Fischer Cecilia, BH... Chin Patricia M. Lynagh Mary E. Massey (since 4/12/87)
OFFICE Or THE DIRECTOR
Director
Deputy Director
Assistant Director for Administration
Administrative Officer
Administrative Specialist
Special Assistants
Office of External Affairs
Director Public Affairs Special Events
Roger G. Kennedy Douglas E. Evelyn
Ronald E. Becker Elizabeth E. Greene Shirley Vann
Naomi Glass lawrence A. Busn James D. Whoolery
Marilyn Lyons Susan Foster Anne Walton

<<<Page: 281>>>

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli Coralee C. Gillilland
Executive Director Curators
Richard Doty
Executive Director Curators
Herbert R. Collins Reidar Norby James H. Bruns
Director
ARCHIVES CENTER Senior Archivist Archivists
OFFICE OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT Building Manager
COMPUTER SERVICES CENTER Chief
Head Conservator Conservators
EISENHOWER INSTITUTE Director DEPARTMENT OF EXHIBITS
Assistant Director for Exhibits Deputy Assistant Director Chief, Design Division
Chief, Exhibits Production Chief, Historic Restoration
James 0. Horton
John Fleckner Robert Harding Jane H. Odom
Richard A. Day
Dennis S. Dickinson
J. Scott Odell Martin Burke Ann Craddock Nikki Horton Lynne Gilliland
Vacant
J. Michael Carrigan
Richard J. Nicastro Deborah M. Bretzfelder Robert H. Norton
Terrence Conable

<<<Page: 282>>>

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROGRAMS Assistant Director for Public Programs
Deputy Assistant Director Design Editor Intern Program Coordinator Program Manager Director, Program in Black American Culture Director, Program in Hispanic American History Public Information Officer Publications Officer
Registrar Assistant Registrar
Director
Lonn Taylor Elizabeth Sharpe Crimilda Pontes Robert Selim Mary Dyer
Harold Closter
Bernice Reagon Luz Maria Prieto
Vacant Camellia Taiwo
Martha Morris Shannon Katherine P. Spiess
Gary Kulik
Chairman Deputy
William L.
Arthur P. Molella Withuhn
Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Curators
Pete Daniel G. Terry Sharrer
Division of Armed Forces History
Curators Historian Curator Emeritus Division of Computers,
Curators
Edward C. Ezell Donald E. Kloster Harold D. Langley James Hutchins Philip Lundeberg
Information, and Society
David Allison Jon 8. Eklund
Division of Electricity and Modern Physics
Curators
Bernard Finn Paul Forman
i “I A

<<<Page: 283>>>

Division of Engineering and Industry Curators Carlene E. Stephens Robert M. Vogel Steven Lubar Division of Medical Sciences Curators Audrey B. Davis Ramunas A. Kondratas Barbara Melosh
Division of Physical Sciences and Mathematics
Curators Deborah J. Warner Uta C. Merzbach
Division of Transportation
Curator William L. Withuhn Senior Historian John H. White
Senior Historians Office
Historian Emeritus Brooke Hindle Senior Historian Nathan Reingold
Technology and Culture
Editor Robert Post American Indian Program
Director Rayna Green DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL AND CULTURAL HISTORY
Chairman Tom D. Crouch Deputy Susan H. Myers
Afro-American Index Project
Project Manager Fath Davis Ruffins Division of Ceramics and Glass
Curator Susan H. Myers Division of Community Life
Curators Richard E. Ahlborn
Carl H. Scheele Spencer Crew

<<<Page: 284>>>

Division
Curator
Curator Emeritus
Division
Curators
Division
Curators
Division
Curators
Division
Curator
Division
Curators
Curator Emeritus
Division
Curator
Costume
Claudia B. Kidwell Anne W. Murray
Domestic Life Anne C. Golovin Rodris C. Roth Barbara C. Smith
Graphic Arts
Elizabeth M. Harris Helena C. Wright
Musical History John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover John E. Hasse
Horace Boyer James Weaver Photographic History
Eugene Ostroff
Political History Edith P. Mayo Keith E. Melder Margaret B. Klapthor
Textiles
Rita J. Adrosko
Director
Robert S. Hoffmann
Associate Director James C. Tyler
Acting Associate Director
Stanwyn G. Shetler (Term ended July 20, 1987)
Assistant Director for
Special Projects
Catherine J. Kerby
Assistant Director for
Programs
Stanwyn G. Shetler

<<<Page: 285>>>

Special Assistant to the Director
Special Assistant to the Associate Director
Director, Quincentenary Programs
Writer-Editor
Administrative Officer
Budget Analyst
Administrative Specialist
Management Analyst
Assistant Director for Education
Acting Assistant Director for Education
Assistant Director for the Automatic Data Program
Assistant Director for Exhibits
Assistant Director for Collections Management
Registrar
Building Manager
Supervisory Museum Specialist, Scanning Electron Microscope Laboratory
Chairman Administrative Specialist
Collections Manager Conservation Laboratory Public Information Specialist
Handbook of North American Indians
General Editor
Managing Editor
Production Manager
Management Services Assistant Anthropologist
Linguist
Librarian
Human Studies Film Archives
Director Assistant Director
Ruth 0. Selig
Jerome A. Conlon Herman J. Viola Thomas R. Harney Mary Rakow Tanner Noreen Dinndorf Penelope K. Gift Marsha Sitnik Joan C. Madden (Retired July 1, 1987) Laura McKie
(Appointed July 2, 1987)
T. Gary Gautier Laurence P. O'Reilly
Janet Gomon
Margaret A. Santiago Edward McCoy
Walter R. Brown
Adrienne L. Kaeppler Carole Lee Kin
(Appointed October 1986)
Candace Greene Carolyn L. Rose Ann Kaupp
William C. Sturtevant R. H. Ives Goddard III Diane Della-Loggia Melvina Jackson Joanna C. Scherer
R. H. Ives Goddard III Lorraine H. Jacoby
Adrienne L. Kaeppler Wendy A. Shay

<<<Page: 286>>>

National Anthropological Archives Archivist Assistant Archivist Latin American Anthropology Curator Associate Curator Expert North American Anthropology Curators
William W. Fitzhugh Bruce D. Smith
Associate Curator
North American Indian Program
Director
Old World Anthropology Curators
Adrienne Kaeppler Ivan Karp
Associate Curators
Mary Jo Arnoldi
Physical Anthropology Curators J. Lawrence Angel (deceased November 1986) Donald J. Ortner
Associate Curators
Douglas Owsley (Appointed June 1, 1987)
James R. Glenn Paula Fleming
Robert M. Laughlin William H. Crocker Betty J. Meggers
Dennis J. Stanford
William C. Sturtevant
William L. Merrill
JoAllyn Archambault
William B. Trousdale Gus Van Beek
Paul Taylor
Douglas H. Ubelaker
Richard Potts

<<<Page: 287>>>

Linguistics
Curator
Research Associates, Collaborators,
James M. Adovasio (Archeology) John Albanese (Geology)
George Appell (Ethnology) Larry Banks (Archeology)
Ava Berenstein (Linguistics)
Michael D. Blakey (Physical Anthropology)
Kathleen J. Bragdon (Linguistics)
Alison S. Brooks (Archeology)
Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Archeology)
Henry B. Collins (Archeology)
Aron Crowell (Archeology)
Edith Dietze (Ethnology)
John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology)
Don D. Fowler (Archeology)
George Frison (Archeology)
Bruno Frohlich (Physical Anthropology)
Kathleen Gordon (Physical Anthropology)
James Griffin (Archeology)
Gary Haynes (Archeology)
Brian Hesse (Archeology)
Neil C. Hughes (Archeology)
Bennie C. Keel (Archeology)
Jennifer 0. Kelley (Physical Anthropology)
Chairman
Acting Chairman
Administrative Assistant
Collections Manager Senior Botanists
Mason E. Hale, Jr.
R. H. Ives Goddard III
and Affiliated Scientists
Richard T. Koritzer (Physical Anthropology)
JoAnne Lanouette (Education)
Paulina Ledergerber (Archeology)
Julio C. Melatti (Ethnology)
Jerald T. Milanich (Archeology)
Chris Nagle (Archeology)
Stephen Potter (Archeology)
Walter G. J. Putschar (Physical Anthropology)
Bruce D. Ragsdale (Pathology)
Leslie Rankin-Hill (Physical Anthropology)
Lucile E. St. Hoyme (Physical Anthropology)
Robert G. Schmidt (Geology)
T. Dale Stewart (Physical Anthropology)
Maurizio Tosi (Archeology)
Mildred M. Wedel (Archeology and Ethnohistory)
Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)
Pamela J. Wintle (Film Archives)
Rita Wright (Physical Anthropology)
Melinda Zeder (Zooarcheology)
Mark M. Littler (Term ended August 31, 1987 )
Laurence E. Skog (Appointed September 1,
1987 ) Nella F. Lloyd George F. Russell
Mark M. Littler

<<<Page: 288>>>

Phanerogams
Curators Dan H. Nicolson Laurence E. Skog Robert W. Read Dieter C. Wasshausen Stanwyn G. Shetler Jonn J. Wurdack
Associate Curators
Robert B. Faden Vicki A. Funk Ferns Associate Curator David B. Lellinger Grasses Curator Thomas R. Soderstrom (Deceased September 1, 1987) Cryptogams Curators James N. Norris Harold E. Robinson Palynology Curator Joan W. Nowicke
Plant Anatomy
Curator Richard H. Eyde
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Katina Bucher (Algae) Charles R. Gunn (Seeds) Jose Cuatrecasas (Flora of Mark Edward Hay (Marine Algae) Tropical South America) Otto Huber (Plant Ecology) Alva G. Day (Polemoniaceae) Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. James A. Duke (Flora of Panama) (Rubiaceae) Patricia M. Eckel (Mosses) Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology) Anthony Fletcher (Lichens) Diane S. Littler (Marine Algae) F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Ximena Londono (Grasses) Island Plants) Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams) Botany)

<<<Page: 289>>>

Carlos Ochoa (Solanum) John C. Ogden (Marine Ecology) Kittie F. Parker ea Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae) Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams) Amy Y. Rossman (Fungi) Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae) Edith E. B. Scott (Bryophyta) Walter Shropshire, Jr.
(Plant Physiology)
Chairman
Chairman
Collections Manager
Senior Scientist Coleoptera Curators
Terry L. Erwin
Hemiptera
Curator
Hymenoptera Senior Scientist Associate Curator
Lepidoptera
Curators John M. Burns
Associate Curator
Myriapoda and Arachnida
Associate Curator
tr co ie
Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
Christopher E. Tanner (Marine Botanical Systematics)
Phillip R. Taylor (Marine Botanical Ecology)
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)
Egbert H. Walker (East Asian Flora)
Anna Weitzman (Rain Forest Ecology)
Wayne N. Mathis (Term ended June 30, 1987) Ronald J. McGinley (Appointed May 1, 1987) Gary F. Hevel Karl V. Krombein
Paul J. Spangler
Richard C. Froeschner
Karl V. Krombein Ronald J. McGinley
Don R. Davis
Robert K. Robbins
Jonathan A. Coddington

<<<Page: 290>>>

Neuropteroids and Diptera Curators
Olivers. Flint. dir.
Wayne N. Mathis
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Joachim Adis (Coleoptera) Annette Aiello (Lepidoptera) Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera) Edward W. Baker (Mites)
S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera)
S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera) Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera) Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera) J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera) Margaret Collins (Orthoptera) Jerry Coyne (Diptera)
Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka) Lance Durden (Siphonaptera)
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)
John H. Fales (Lepidoptera) Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera) Richard H. Foote (Diptera)
John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera) Raymond J. Gagne (Diptera) Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera)
E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera) William L. Grogan, Jr. (Diptera) Ashley B. Gurney (orthoptera) Ralph E. Harbach (Diptera)
Bruce A. Harrison (Diptera) Thomas J. Henry (Hemiptera)
John B. Heppner (Lepidoptera) Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera) W. L. Jellison (Mites, Ticks) James E. Keirans (Ticks)
John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera) Lloyd V. Knutson (Diptera) James P, Kramer (Homoptera)
Chairman Collections Manager Administrative Assistant
Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera) Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera) Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera) Scott E. Miller (Microlepidoptera) Carl F. W. Muesebeck (Hymenoptera) David F. Nickle (Orthoptera) Paul A. Opler (Lepidoptera) David L. Pearson (Coleoptera) Robert V. Peterson (Diptera) Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera) Robert W. Poole (Noctuidae) Mary Livingston Ripley (General Entomology) Louise M. Russell (Homoptera) Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera) Michael E. Schauff (Hymenoptera) Jay C. Shaffer (Microlepidoptera) Sunthorn Sirivanakarn (Diptera) Robert L. Smiley (Mites) David R. Smith (Mites) Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera) George C. Steyskal (Diptera) Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera) F. Christian Thompson (Diptera) Robert Traub (Siphonaptera) Katsuji Tsuneki (Hymenoptera) Hayo H. W. Velthuis (Hymenoptera) Ronald A. Ward (Medical Entomology) Richard E. White (Coleoptera) Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera) Willis W. Wirth (Diptera) David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)
Roger F. Cressey Roland H. Brown Martha V. Joynt
ie) co Ss)

<<<Page: 291>>>

Crustacea
Curators J. Laurens Barnard Robert P. Higgins Thomas E. Bowman Brian F. Kensley Roger F. Cressey Louis S. Kornicker C. W. Hart, Jr. Raymond B. Manning
Echinoderms and Lower Invertebrates
Curators Frederick M. Bayer David L. Pawson Stephen D. Cairns Klaus Ruetzler Mollusks Curators Richard S. Houbrick Clyde F. E. Roper
Associate Curators
M. G. Harasewych Robert Hershler Worms Curators Kristian Fauchald Meredith L. Jones W. Duane Hope Mary E. Rice
Registry of Tumors in Lower Animals
Director John Harshbarger Biological Lab Technician Jennifer B. Clark Biological Lab Technician Kathy Price Research Assistant Marilyn Slatick Museum Specialist Phyllis Spero
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
J. Bruce Bredin Steven Chambers Fenner A. Chace, Jr. Elizabeth Chornesky (Emeritus Zoologist) Joan D. Ferraris

<<<Page: 292>>>

Stephen J. Gardiner Terrence M. Gosliner Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. (Emeritus Zoologist) Lipke B. Holthuis Roman Kenk J. Ralph Lichtenfels Patsy McLaughlin Charles G. Messing John E. Miller Katherine Muzik Isabel Perez-Farfante (Canet) Esther C. Peters Richard E. Petit Marian H. Pettibone (Emeritus Zoologist)
Chairman Administrator
Meteorites Curator Associate Curator Geochemnist Mineralogy Curator
Associate Curator Crystallographer
Petrology and Volcanology
Curators
Richard S. Fiske William G. Melson
Associate Curator
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
Harald A. Render (Emeritus Zoologist)
Janet W. Reid
I. G. Sohn
Ronald B. Toll
Paul N. Turner
Michael Vecchione
Geerhart J. Vermeij
Gilbert L. Voss
Austin B. Williams
David K. Young
Vassil N. Zlatarski
Robert F. Fudali Roberta Lynn Ellington
Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Glenn J. MacPherson Kurt Fredriksson
John Sampson White Jeffrey Post Daniel E. Appleman
Tom Simkin
Sorena Sorensen

<<<Page: 293>>>

Physical Sciences Laboratory Chemists
Eugene Jarosewich Joseph A. Nelen
Electronics Technician James E. Collins
Scientific Event Alert Network
Museum Specialist Lindsay R. McClelland
Museum Technicians
Elizabeth Nielsen Lisa Wainger
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites)
Cathy Busby-Spera (Petrology)
Gary R. Byerly (Petrology)
Felix Chayes (Petrology and Volcanology) Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites)
John Filson (Petrology and Volcanology) Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy)
Martin Flower (Petrology
Peter Levens (Mineralogy)
Brian H. Mason (Meteorites)
Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy)
Debra S. Stakes (Petrology and Volcanology)
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology and Volcanology)
Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology
and Volcanology) Edward Henderson (Meteorites)
Chairman Curator Emeritus
Administrative Assistant
Collections Manager
Deputy Collections Manager
Paleobiological Information Specialist
Scientific Illustrator
Vertebrate Paleontology Preparation Laboratory,
Supervisor Senior Scientists
Richard H. Benson Richard E. Grant
and Volcanology)
Ian G. Macintyre
G. Arthur Cooper (Retired June 7, 1987)
Betty M. Lomax
Frederick J. Collier
Jann W. M. Thompson
Raymond T. Rye II Mary A. Parrish
Arnold D. Lewis
Daniel J. Stanley

<<<Page: 294>>>

Geologists
Ian G. Macintyre James F. Mello (Retired February 28, 1987)
Curators
Walter H. Adey Martin A. Buzas Alan H. Cheetham Robert J. Emry Nicholas Hotton III
Associate Curators
Anna kK. Behrensmeyer William A. DiMichele
Research Associates, Collaborators,
Jean M. Berdan William A. Berggren Raymond L. Bernor Arthur J. Boucot Robert C. Carpenter Sankar Chatterjee Anthony G. Coates G. Arthur Cooper Josepnine W. Cooper Stephen J. Culver Ted E. Delaca
Daryl P. Domning Raymond C. Douglass J. Thomas Dutro, Jr. Ralph E. Eshelman Jerzy A. Federowski Robert M. Finks Frank A. Garcia Robert A. Gastaldo Mackenzie Gordon, Jr. Richard R. Graus Peter C. Griffith Peter J. Harmatuk Jessica A. Harrison Leo J. Hickey
S. Taseer Hussain Carl F. Koch Kenneth E. Lohman Andres Maldonado John N. Malinky
Kenneth M. Towe
Francis M. Hueber Jack W. Pierce Clayton E. Ray Thomas R. Waller
Scott L. Wing
and Affiliated Scientists
Sergius H. Mamay Robert B. Neuman William A.cOliver, Jr. Lisa E. Osterman David B. Packer Thomas F. Phelan
John Pojeta, Jr.
Roy H. Reinhart Charles A. Repenning Kenneth D. Rose
Bruce Runnegar William J. Sando David E. Schindel Judith Schneider Vincent P. Schneider R. Craig Shipp Frederick J. Siegle Elwyn L. Simons Judith Skog
Roberta K. Smith-Everenden Norman F. Sohl
I. Gregory Sohn Donald Spoon
George D. Stanley, Jr. Steven M. Stanley Phillip Sze
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr. Druid Wilson
Ellis L. Yochelson

<<<Page: 295>>>

ioe)
Chairman
Chairman
Collections Managers
Administrative Assistant
Fishes Curators
Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. Victor G. Springer
Associate Curators
G. David Johnson
Amphibians and Reptiles
Curators
W. Ronald Heyer
Birds Curators Storrs L. Olson
Assistant Curator
Mammals Curators
Michael D. Carleton Charles 0. Handley, Jr.
W. Ronald Heyer (Term ended August 31, 1987 )
Richard W. Thorington, Jr. (Appointed September 1, 1987 )
J. Phillip Angle
Susan L. Jewett
Charles W. Potter
Jeffrey T. Williams
Anna L. Datcher
Stanley H. Weitzman
Richard P. Vari
George R. Zug
Richard L. Zusi
Gary R. Graves
James G. Mead Richard W. Thorington, Jr.

<<<Page: 296>>>

Office of the Secretary Emeritus
Secretary Emeritus Special Assistant Museum Specialist
S. Dillon Ripley Adele Y. Issa Bruce M. Beehler
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
John W. Aldrich (Birds)
John S. Ash (Birds)
Richard C. Banks (Birds)
Bruce M. Beehler (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)
Michael A. Bogan (Mammals)
Heraldo Britski (Fishes)
Eleanor D. Brown (Birds)
Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals)
John Cadle (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)
G. Ken Creighton (Mammals)
C. Kenneth Dodd, Jr. (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Andrzej Elzanowski (Birds)
Louise H. Emmons (Mammals)
Robert K. Enders (Mammals)
Carl H. Ernst (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Alan Feduccia (Birds)
Sara V. Fink (Fishes)
William L. Fink (Fishes)
Mercedes S. Foster (Birds)
Thomas H. Fritts (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Jeffery Froenlich (Mammals)
Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)
J. Whitfield Gibbons (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Michael Goulding (Fishes)
Richard Highton (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Peter W. Houde (Birds)
Morton and Phyllis Isler (Birds)
Frances C. James (Birds)
Gordon L. Kirkland, Jr. (Mammals)
Irving L. Kornfield (Fishes)
William H. Krueger (Fishes)
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)
John M. Legler (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Roy W. McDiarmid (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Antonio Machado-Allison (Fishes)
Francisco Mago-Leccia (Fishes)
Joe T. Marshall (Birds)
Linda R. Maxson (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Naercio Menezes (Fishes)
Joseph C. Mitchell (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Richard M. Mitchell (Mammals)
Ralph S. Palmer (Birds)
Lynne R. Parenti (Fishes)
William F. Perrin (Mammals)
Allan R. Phillips (Birds)
Ronald H. Pine (Mammals)
Gregory K. Pregill (Amphibians and Reptiles)
John E. Randall (Fishes)
G. Carleton Ray (Mammals)
Randall R. Reeves (Mammals)
S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)
Carol Ruckdeschel (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Alan H. Savitzky (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Albert Schwartz (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Norman J. Scott, Jr. (Amphibians and Reptiles)
William F. Smith-Vaniz (Fishes)
Thomas W. Stafford, Jr. (Birds)
David W. Steadman (Birds)
Kenneth J. Sulak (Fishes)
Stephen G. Tilley (Amphibians and Reptiles)
James C. Tyler (Fishes)
Joseph P. Ward (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Richard J. Wassersug (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Marilyn Weitzman (Fishes)
John S. Weske (Birds)
E. 0. Wiley (Fishes)
James D. Williams (Fishes)
Don E. Wilson (Mammals)

<<<Page: 297>>>

Director Administrative Assistant
Marine Biologists
Frank D. Ferrari Betty J. Landrum
Leslie W. Knapp Patricia K. Buckley
Ernani G. Menez
Scientist-in-Charge Administrative Officer
Research Assistants
William D. Lee Sherry Anne Petry
Director
Administrative Assistant Collections Coordinator Data Manager
Shipping Officer Facility Manager
Director
Assistant Director for Collections
Assistant Director for History and Public Programs
Executive Officer
Curator of Painting and Sculpture
Curator of Exhibitions
Associate Curator of Painting and Sculpture
Mary E. Rice Lorraine M. Brouillard
Julianne Piraino Hugh F. Reichardt
U. Vincent Wilcox Patti B. Young (Vacant)
Joan B. Andrews James Lee
Charles E. Dunn
Alan Fern Carolyn K. Carr
Marc Pachter Barbara A. Hart
Robert G. Stewart Beverly J. Cox
Ellen Miles

<<<Page: 298>>>

Curator of Prints
Curator of Photographs
Curator of Education
Editor of Publications
Chief, Design and Production
Keeper, Catalog of American Portraits
Editor of the Charles Willson Peale Papers and Historian of American Culture
Librarian
Conservator
Senior Photographer
Registrar
Public Affairs Officer
Director
Administrative Officer
Assistant Director/Chief of Design and Editing
Assistant Director/Chief of Production
Supervisor, Fabrication Shop
Supervisor, Graphics Unit
Supervisor, Model Shop
Director
Assistant Director
Administrative Officer
Manager, Grounds Management Division Manager, Greenhouse-Nursery Division Landscape Architect
Wendy Wick Reaves William F. Stapp Kenneth Yellis Frances K. Stevenson Nello Marconi
Richard K. Doud
ba liitans Bi, Mal Ler Cecilia Chin Cindy Lou Molnar Eugene Mantie Suzanne Jenkins Sandra Westin
Vacant Eva Goodwin
Karen Fort
Walter Sorrell Kenneth Clevinger James ''Buddy'! Speight Ben Snouffer
James R. Buckler Kathryn L. R. Meehan Peter J. Nerret Kenneth Hawkins August A. Dietz IV Paul H. Lindell
Direcror Jane R. Glaser Assistant Director and NAMP Coordinator Nancy J. Fuller Audiovisual Pregram Coordinator Laura T. Schneider Workshop Ccordinator James Quinn On-Site WorksnenCoordinator Patricia Barrows Internships and Visiting Professionals
Cocrdi nates librarian, Museum Refarence Cant logg Project Coordinator
Bruce Craig Catherine § PRraidsp
cote
piess
——s {

<<<Page: 299>>>

Director Assistant to the Director Administrative Assistant
Mary E. Case Joseph L. Wiley Freida D. Hancock
Acting Directs
Asscciat= Director
Assistant Director for Acministzraticn
Acministrative Divisicn
Budget Analysts
Office Manager
Head Registrar
Asscciats Registrar isc for Shirping
—_ Recisczar for Scheculing Communicatiens Divisicn
Curator of Educaticn Educaticn Ccocrdinateor Workshcep Coordinator
Public Relaticns Director Public Relations Cocrdinator Publicaticns Director Eciiter
Pregram Divisicn Senior Exhnibiticn Ccordinator Exhibiticn Cccerdinatcrs Lori CLemrsey Elizabeth Driscoll Matcu Geceawin Kris Hardin izakbeth Eenninss
Guest Curators (Stars)
Anna R. Cohn Iucinda Leach
Eileen Rese Claires Fremville
Lirca Bell
Allecra Wright Marice-—Claire Jean Kemmeti D. Fenty Lee Williams Frecric P. Williams Carol Farza Carol Harsn
Myriam Soringuel Laurie M. Triprett Frederica Adeiman Deboren D. Benmnet= Liz Hill
Ancrea Stevens David Andrews
Marcha Carrelletti
Germaine Juneau Gail Kaplan Denalid McClelland Retry Teller
Judith Gradwchl

<<<Page: 300>>>

Assistant Secretary Ralph Rinzler Executive Assistant James C. Early Special Assistant Mary Lynne McElroy Special Assistant Jeffrey T. LaRiche Program Assistant Manjula Kumar Special Advisor for
Telecommunications Thomas H. Wolf Secretary Carol F. Anderson Secretary Annette Sukarloo
Executive Director Glen Hoptman Program Officer Susan Ueberhorst
Executive Director Douglas M. Lapp Program Director Sally G. Shuler
Director Vera Hyatt Secretary Pearline Waldrop
Director Ann Bay Program Manager Thomas E. Lowderbaugh Writer/Editor Betsy EHisendrath Coordinator for’ Special
Education Janice Majewski Workshop Coordinator Clare Cuddy Career Awareness Coordinator Mentrose Cones Career Awareness Education
Specialist Brenda Brown Program Assistants Mary Lynn Sienkiewicz
Beth Anne Shaw
ie) \oO SS)

<<<Page: 301>>>

Director
Deputy Director
Festival Director
Senior Ethnemusicolcegist
Folklorist/Director, Quincenteanary Programs
Polkloriscs
Curator, Massachusetts Program Administrative Officer Festival Services Manager Program Specialist
Designer
Acting Archivist
Audio Visual Secratary to Clerk/Typist
the Director
Production Assistant
Peter Seital Richard Kurin Diana Parker Thomas Vennum, Jr. Alicia Gonzalez Marjorie Hunt Phyllis May-Machunda Frank Proschan Nicholas Spitzer Betty Belanus Jewell Dulaney Barbara .Stcrickland Arlene Liebenau Dapnne Snuttleworta Peter Magoon
Guha Shankar Kathryn Trillas Teresa Toliaferro
Director Associate Director
Director
Special Assistant to the Director Administrative Services Coordinator Public Affairs Assistant
Assistant Director Staff
Wilton S. Dillon Carla M. Borden
Madeleine Jacobs Eileen Hall Carolyn Amundson Michelle Carr
Kathryn Lindeman John Barrat
Mary Combs
Kim Grant
Peggy Langrall Vicki Moeser Lilas Wiltshire

<<<Page: 302>>>

Assistant Director Staff
liinda St. Johnnie Douthis
Thomas
Gabriela Frings Cynthia Haley David Maxfield Ink Mendelsohn Bill Schulz Rachel Sears
Director
Acting Director eff. 12/19/87 Director of Special Projects
Motion Picture Production Specialist Audio/Visual Production Specialists
Marketing & Promotion Specialist Radio Production Specialists
TV Production Specialist Administrative Officer
Director
Deputy Director Financial Manager Marketing Director Marketing Consultant Administrative Officer
University Press Division
Assistant Director and Managing Editor Senior Science Editor
Editor, Special Projects
Editorial Director
Acquisitions Editors
Nazaret Cherkezian Paul B. Johnson Karen Loveland John W. Hiller John P. Meehan Carolyn Hopewell Lee Cioffi
Jean B. Quinnette Denise E. Freeland Mary Beth Kirchner John Tyler
Peter R. C. Erikson Charlotte Brown
Felix Lowe
Vincent MacDonnell John Ouellette Gail Grella William Kelty Dorothy Blaska
Maureen Jacoby Edward Rivinus Martin Williams Daniel Goodwin Amy Pastan Theresa Slowik
id \o nN

<<<Page: 303>>>

Chief Manuscript Editor Series Publications Supervisor
Production Design
Direct Mail Book Division
Editor-in-Chief Senior Editor
Recordings Division
Associate Producer
Editorial and Design Coordinator
University of the Air
Project Manager
Editor
Board of Editors:
Constance Bond Caroline Despard
Jim Doherty Timot
Foote
Marlane Liddell
Publisher
Associate Publishe Associate Publishe Darector of Cireul Director of Produc Consuitants to the
Executive Producer Senior Producer Production Coordinator
Administrative Assistant to
Executive Producer Production Secretary
Ruth Spiegel Barbara Spann Kathleen Brown Alan Carter
Patricia Gallagher Alexis Doster III
Margaret Robinson Jane Sapp
Edward Bastian
Sal Ss
Don Mose Bennett Schiff
Nancy Seaman
Paul Trachtman
John P, Wiley, dr. Josepn J. Bonsignore Thomas H. Black Carey O. Randail John O'Donnell
E. Cherry Doyle Edward K. Thompson
Anne Keatin
Adrian H. Malone Sandra Bradley Dorothy Gatch
Jill Case vacant

<<<Page: 304>>>

Director
Deputy Director, Information Services
Adminstrative Officer
Manager, Information Resources Division
Manager, Staff, Volunteer, and Intern Services Unit Manager, Public Inquiry Mail Unit
Manager, Telephone Information Program
Coordinator, Group Information Services Coordinator, Information Outreach Program
Mary Grace Potter Gretchen Jennings Elizabeth Bennett Jane Gardner Nancy Hinton Lavon Callanan Cordelia Renedict Julia Robertson Molly Campbel1
Training Coordinator, Acting Manager, Central Services
ADMINISTRATION Assistant Secretary Special Assistant Ombudsman
Director Congressional Liaison Specialist
CONTRACTS OFFICE Director
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Director Program Manager, Accessibility Program Manager, Complaints Program Manager, Education Program Manager, Affirmative Action
Director
Director
Lois Brown Bee Gee Livsey
John F. Jameson Elizabeth Beuck Derbyshire Chandra P. Heilman
Margaret C. Gaynor Carey M. Wilkins
Elbridge O. Hurlbut
Will Douglas, Jr. Diane Cook-Lee
Robert L. Osborne Shirley Whitfield-Epps John B. Taylor
Richard L. Siegle AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Cynthia R. Field

<<<Page: 305>>>

Director
Deputy Director
Chief, Planning Division
Chief, Design Division
Acting Chief, Construction Division Administrative Officer
Phillip K. Reiss David L. Slingerland Harold J. Rombach William L. Thomas Vincent Cogliano James N. Guandolo
Director
Special Assistant
Executive Officer
Chief, Safety Division
Chief, Fire Protection Division
Chief, Environmental Management Division
Director
Administrative Officer
Chief, Computer Services
Assistant Director, Physical Plant Services
Assistant Director, Support Services
Assistant Director, Engineering Services
Director
Deputy Director
Administrative Officer
Chief, Protection Service
Chief, Security Systems Division Chief, Security Services Division Medical Officer
Security Officer, Cooper-Hewitt
F. William Billingsley Edward R. Sniechoski Andrew W. McCoy Walter G. Bailey
J. Andrew Wilson
Ruth E. Lantzy
Michael R. League Judith A. Cooper Michele L. Thatcher
William M. Adams Michael J. Sofield
Lawrence D. Stuebing
Robert B. Burke, Jr. G. Clifford Boocks Robert D. Seabolt Jay W. Chambers Barton B. Rinehart Thomas W. Bresson
J. Andrew Armer, M.D. Luis A. Palau
Director Acting, Deputy Director Manager, Information System Division
Manager, Computer and Communications Div.
Acting Manager, Information Support Services Division
Manager, Information Management Division
Administrative Officer
Richard H. Lytle Stephen Toney James Crockett George Anderson
Joseph Russo Stephen Toney Donald L. Wilhelm

<<<Page: 306>>>

Director Assistant Director Chief, Operations
Director
Assistant Director for Operations Assistant Director for Policy and Programs Benefits Officer
Labor Relations Officer
John G. Motheral James M. Young Iris Pickens
Howard Toy Peter McSwain Barry Pierce Wendell Mickle Nancy Johns
Director
Deputy Director
Production Control Officer
Chief, Special Events/Photography Branch Chief, Laboratory Branch
Chief, NASM Branch
Chief, NMNH Branch
Chief, Color Branch
Chief, Duplicating Branch
James H. Wallace, Jr.
Lorie H. Aceto
Mary Ellen McCaffrey Richard Hofmeister Edes F. Talman
Dale Hrabak
Victor Krantz
Joe A. Goulait Herman Thompson
Director Deputy Director
OFFICE OF PROGRAMMING AND BUDGET Director Assistant Director, Planning Assistant Director, Federal Funds Assistant Director, Trust Funds OFFICE OF SPECIAL EVENTS Director Special Event Coordinators
Director Travel Assistant
Robert P. Perkins John W. Cobert
Naney D. Suttenfield Robert L. Farrell Mary J. Rodriguez Jack D. Zickafoose
Barbara Spraggins Kathleen A. Bauer Brigit Bush
Judith Petroski Carol P. Ailes

<<<Page: 307>>>

Treasurer Assistant Treasurer, Office of Financial Management and Planning Comptroller, Office of Accounting and Financial Services Director, Office of Risk Management Director, Business Management Office Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops Director, Mail Order Division Director, Product Licensing & Development Concessions Administrator
Director
Deputy Director Special Assistant Program Staff
Secretaries
Office of Publications Exchange
Acting Manager Management Assistant Shipping Clerk
Office of Service and Protocol
Director
Deputy Director
International Affairs Specialist International Liaison
Secretary
Quincentenary Planning Coordinator
Program Manager Program Assistant
*Retired August 31, 1987
Ann R. Leven
John R. Clarke Shireen L. Dodson Phillip H. Babcock James J. Chmelik Samuel J. Greenberg Donald E. Press Lisa Stevenson Roland W. Banscher
John E. Reinhardt*
Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
Margaret P. Anderson Edward W. Bastian Christine Helms Cheryl B. LaBerge Mary S. McCutcheon Anne E. Peret Barbara H. Russell Earline L. Williams
Richard fT. Conroy. Thomas J. Matthews Darryl H. Williams
Schmertz Conroy Thomas LeMay Mendelsohn
Kennedy B. Richard 1. Saundra T. Brian W.J. Sarah E.
Carrera Rand Minichiello
Magali M. Jgacki-~ Tl. Lhasa Ke

<<<Page: 308>>>

Special Foreign Currency Program
Program Manager Program Assistant
Prog
Man and the Biosphere Program
ram Manager
Francine C. Berkowitz L. Ernelle Ross
Francisco Gomez-Dallmieier
Director Deputy Director Development Officers
Technical Information Officer
and Seminar
—-s Lectura
Program Manager Senior Program ‘Coordinators
James McK. Symington E. Jeffrey Stann
Donna B. Ari Diana D. Duncan Arthur W. Gardner
Bonnie Krench Michael Syphax Susan Kalcik
Joseph Carper
Charlene James-—Ducu
a Warner
Amy Kotkin xner MaryBeth Mullen
Contributing Membership Program
Program Manager Program Specialist Program Coordinator
Associatas Travel
Program Manager Deputy Program Manager
Fern Segerlind John Shaer Uwe EeSsoron
Prue Clendenning

<<<Page: 309>>>

Director
Associate Director for Programming Assistant Director for Administration Senior Program Coordinators
Program Coordinators
Editor
Assistant Editor
Public Affairs Officer Marketing Manager Registration/Membership Manager Assistant Registration Manager Assistant Membership Coordinator Volunteer Coordinator
Chairman Artrstiec Director Assistant to the Chairman/
Roger L. Marta Istomin
Janet W. Solinger Edmund H. Worthy, Jr. Michael W. Cassidy Anna Caraveli Roslyn C. Beitler Moya B. King Elizabeth H. McClung Marcus L. Overton Nancy P. Rosnow Susan L. Swarthout Penelope P. Dann Karen M. Gray Katherine Wood Kathryn Stafford Edward Taylor Catherine J. Cole Kathleen Harmon Dennis Smoot
Xenia S. Amelle Claudette E. Moore Elinor K. Emlet
Stevens
Director of Development Jillian H. Poole DEVELOPMENT Deputy Director Richard W. Bauer
Associate Director
Director
Barbara A. Hall
Clifton B. Jeter
Administrative Assistant for Programming
Director
Sheldon Schwartz
Geraldine M. Otremba

<<<Page: 310>>>

General Manager
of Productions Alan C. Wasser Director of Theater Operations Anne F. Zimmerman
Division Director/
Director of Public Affairs Laura Longley Director of Media Relations Tiki Davies Director of Marketing John H. McAuliffe Director of Advertising Joanne B. Stellar
Director Charlotte Woolard CULTURAL DIVERSITY AFFAIRS
Director Archie L. Buffkins EDUCATION PROGRAM
Director Jack W. Kukuk Deputy Director/
Alliance for Arts Education David R. Humphrey Programs
for Children and Youth c. CoMSultivan National Symphony Orchestra Carole J. Wysocki American College
Theater Festival David Young
Executive Director Thomas J. Mader Associate Director Peg Allen
Executive Director Stephen Klein General Manager Allison B. Vulgamore
Ko Oo sy)

<<<Page: 311>>>

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT President
Nts Oni Ck OF THh DIRECTOR Director .
Special Assistan
Executive Assistant
Jive Carter B Robert Bowe Angela LoRe
OFFICE, OF THE DEPUTY. DIRECTOR John Wilmerding
Deputy Director
Chief, Education Department ioulylepa
Chief of Exhibition Programs Executive Librarian
Chief, Photographic Laboratory
Head, Photographic Services
Head, Extension Programs
Acting Head, Art Information Service
Curator of Photographic Archives
Chief, Department of Design and Installation
Managing Curator, Records and Loans
Registrar
Head, Department of Loans and National Lending Service
Assistant to the Deputy Director
CURATORS Chief Curator Senior Curator, Curator of Prints and Drawings Curmator of French Prints Curator of Italian Drawings
Curator of Contemporary Prints Curators of Northern Renaissance
Painting
Curator of Southern Renaissance
Painting
Curator of Northern Baroque Painting
Curator of American Art
Curator of Sculpture
Curator of Modern Painting
Curator of Twentieth-Century ATS
Chief of Conservation
Russell Sal Frances Smy
John R. Stevenson
rown n
e ch
D. Dodge Thompson
Neal fT. Tur Richard Amt
fell
Ira A. Bartfield
Ruth R. Per
Christopher
Ruth Rowe Philbrick
Gaillard F.
Suzannah Fa Mary E. Suz
Stephanie B
Carol Kelle
Sydney J. Freedberg
nea al
With
Ravenel
bing Ox
Andrew C. Robison,
H. Diane Ru Diane DeGra Ruth Fine
John O. Han
David A. Br
Arthur K. W
Nicoidlady Crk
ssell Zia
heelock ovsky
Douglas Lewis
Charles S.
Jack Cowart Ross M. Mer
Moffett
ma Ed

<<<Page: 312>>>

OFFICE OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS External Affairs Officer Special Events Public Information Corporate Relations
President's Office, Special Project, Patrons' Permanent Fund
Music
Joseph J. Krakora Genevra Higginson Ruth Kaplan Elizabeth A. C. Weil
Laura E. Smith George Manos
Secretary-General Counsel
Associate Secretary-General Counsel
Assistant Secretary
Chief Archivist, Gallery Archives
CENTER FOR ADVANCED STUDY Dean Associate Dean
OFFICE OF THE TREASURER Treasurer Assistant Treasurer
Philip.C.; Jessup, Jr.
Elizabeth A. Croog Kathryn K. Bartfield
Maygene Daniels IN THE VISUAL ARTS
Henry A. Millon Marianna S. Simpson
Daniel Herrick
Administrator
Personnel Officer Facilities Manager Chief of Security
Chairman of the Board President Executive Assistant and Director of Special Projects Director of Development Director of Supplier and Organizational Relations Director of Finance Director of Parent Services and Publications Director of Program Services Director, Systems, Computer, and Support Operations
Michael W. Levine Anne B. Evans Michael B. Bloom
Gregg A. Reynolds Francis E. Verrier
Mrs. Elliot Richardson Ruth Graves
Nancy Sullivan Wade St. Clair
Rarbara B. Atkinson Christina Mead
James Wendorf Jessie L. Lacy
Don Perron

<<<Page: 313>>>

Deputy Director, Finance Writer/Editor Manager of Communications
and Parent Services Support Services Manager Program Coordinator Resource Coordination Specialist
Donna M. Wagley Gail Oerke
Victoria J. Heland Calvin L. McFadden Krystal Patrick Barbara Holton
Director Acting Director Associate Director and Chairman, European Institute Assistant Director for Development and Secretary, Asia Program Assistant Director for Publishing Assistant Director for Administration and Finance Assistant Director for Fellowships and Coordinator, Program on History, Culture, and Society Executive Assistant to the Director Editor, Wilson Quarterly
‘Librarian
Publications Program Manager Special Assistant for Public Affairs
Secretary, West European Program
Secretary, East European Program
Secretary, Program on American Society and Politics
Senior Program Associate, InterMational Security Studies Program
Secretary, Latin American Program
Secretary, Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies
James H. Billington
Prosser Gifford (as of September 9, 1987)
Samuel F. Wells, Jr.
Ronald A. Morse Shaun Murphy (as of April 20, 1987)
Jon E. Yellin
Ann C. Sheffield Mernie Wright Weathers Peter Braestrup
Zdenek V. David Elizabeth Dixon
George Liston Seay Michael Haltzel John R. Lampe Michael J. Lacey Robert Litwak
Richard M. Morse
Peter B. Reddaway

<<<Page: 314>>>

Appendix 8
Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1987
The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for their generous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inadvertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian wishes to thank them for their generosity.
$10,000 or more Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation Sidney Stein, Jr.
The Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation
$5,000 or more William Waller Carson, Sr. Revocable Trust Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.
$1,000 or more Berkshire Hathaway FFHS&J Funds, Inc. George S. May International Company Harry I. Saul H. James Schonblom Sidney Stern Memorial Trust The Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust The Raymond John Wean Foundation
$500 or more Anonymous Mr. & Mrs. Benjamin F. Cloud Mr. & Mrs. William T. Coleman, Jr. William F. Franck James A. MacDonald Foundation Mr. & Mrs. Henry Schneider Mrs. William S. Weedon
$250 or more Daphne Seybolt Culpeper Foundation, Inc. Charles S. Fields Charitable Trust Elizabeth Lynne Gilham Betty H. Llewellyn

<<<Page: 315>>>

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger
$10,000 or more Mars Foundation The Bay Foundation World Wildlife Foundation Resources for the Future, Inc. All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. Arthur Sawyer Redfearn The David & Lucille Packard Foundation The Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation
$5,000 or more Wildlife Preservation Trust Goethe-Stiftung fur Kunst und
Wissenschaft
$1,000 or more American Ecological Union, Inc. The Conservation Foundation (WWF) Perrybell Investments, Inc.
$500 or more Sally S. Tongren
$250 or more Friends of the Washington Park Zoo
JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS Donor of Financial Support
$10,000 or more Richard Lounsbery Foundation

<<<Page: 316>>>

SMZITESCNIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES Ponors to'the Collections
Gs -Arehnur Csover: pacers’ or G.. Amenhur Cscre= Mark Ge Dali Marks Dall Collecticn George B. Field: parers cf Georce B. Field Alam Hardy: 9 °Collected Phctccrapns of Encsmolegists W. Ronald Hever: papers of W. Renald Hever Breeke Hindle: pavers of Brocke Hindle Phillip S. Hughes: taped reminiscences Richard Ho \hycls: pacers: or Richard H. Lytle Ellen J. Mcore: papers of Ellen J. Mcore Rebere P. Multaut: parers of Robert P. Multaut Geerge S. Myers Estate: parers of George S. Myers Rebert Nesbit=: papers of Ira N. Gabrielscn Ss \Dillen: Ripley: parers er Ss. Dillen Ripley Uses Wt Sabresky: perers of Curzis W. Saprosky Walter Shropshire, Jr.: papers of Walter Shrepshire, Jr. Israel G. Sonn: papers of Israel G. Sohn Doris)’ Hi. Sceirs:. records or the American Grmitholecises’ Union Marie Tharp: parers or Bruce C. Heezen
z r11
Bliss) Ls Yeehelson: .“photcoranch of Weshingeon, D.C: Hatzen Yoder: National Academy of Sciences Bicgrapnhical Memoirs
Institutions
American Asscciation of Museums: records of the Asscciaticn
American Ornitholegists' Unicn: records of the Unicn
American Scciety of Ichthyolegists and Herpetolcgists: records of the Scciety
American Séciety of Zoolccists: records of the Seciety
Colonial Watarbird Group: records of the Group
Eastern Birdbanding Association: racords of the Asscciaticn
Museum Ecucation Reundtable: records of the Roundtable
Scciety of Vertabrate Palecntolegy: records of the Scciety
United States CLerarmnent of Agriculture: records of the Systematic Entcmolcgy Laboratory

<<<Page: 317>>>

Donors of Financial Support
Dibner Fund, Incorporated
Donors to the Collections
Individual Donors
Virginia Adamski
Dre, John Aldricn Mrs. Robert Alexander Mabry Anderson Philip Angle
Dan Appleman
David Aradeon Geoffrey Arend Thierry, Arnold
Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod Mary A. Baish
Mary Ballard
George A. Bayless
Cc. W. Beilstein
Don Berkebile
Raimar Bernard Edward Blank
Manuel Blasco
Dr. Werner Boehme
Ed Braverman
Charles W. Brickner Ralph Browning
H. S. Brownstein
Dew M. ON. Bruton Margaret Bush
Robert P. Bryson William S. Campbell Gari Caplan, 1)..D.S:. Russell Cashdollar Felix Chayes
Dr. Jean-Phillippe Chippaux Roy SS: Clark
Fred Colliere
Henry B. Collins Gayl Cook
Dr. G. Arthur Cooper Phyllisann Courtis R. I. Crombie
Zola Crosby
Alan Crown
Jacqueline Cundiff Mrs. William Curtin Alexander Dandie
Mary Kay Davies
Dr. Bern Dibner William Bryant Doty Richard Drake
Dr. James A. Duke
Drs Brian Ms. Darloit Dr. Bohdan Dziadyk Col. Johny i. He Bales Jim Ellis
Dr. Andreziy Elzanowski Richard H. Eyde Christiane Falgayretts Jim Farraiolo
Dr. Richard: S. -Fiske Dr. Oscar A. Flores Villela Paul Forman
Dr. Robert F. Fudali Carl Gans
Paul E. Garber
Judith Gardner
Hugette Van Geluwe Alfonso Garcia Giron Craddock Goins
Fred Grady
Susan Rothwell Gurney Nancy Gwinn
Dr. Paul Haefner Yoshikazo Hasegawa Hisakazu Hayashi Thomas P. Hayes
Philip Heemstra
Mr. Michael Heidkamp Ms. Kristin Helberg
Ed Henderson
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Henry

<<<Page: 318>>>

Mr. Raymond J. Herbert Dis Wize Re He wen Christephe Hinkelmann Bruce A. Hitman Morna Holden
Olaf Holm
Gerard Ingold
Roy H. Jackson
Dele Jegede
Eric Jensen
Dr. Jerry Douglas Johnson Ms. Helen Kafka Michael J. Katz
Peter S. Kaufmann John S. Kebabian
Ruth Kerr
Mary Stiles Kline Dred. die Korte Atsushi Kuga
Jean Lagoutte
Gerald R. Lee Wilhelm Lewicki
Fula B. Lewis
Mack A. Lewis
Rick Leyes
Donald S. Lopez
Dr. Carlyle Lue
Diann MacRae
Mark L. Madsen
Dr. Robert Maloy Henri Marchal
Dr. Joe T. Marshall Brian Mason
Daniel J. Mason, M.D. Joe S. Maynor
Sonny McNorthey
James G. Mead
Dr. Peter A. Meylon Harry G. Miller
Dr. “Sadneyr W. Mintz Bruce Moore
Robert Multhauf Andrea J. Nicholls Elizabeth Nielson Elliott A. Norse
Dir. Storrs L.. Olson Din. Lauriatz Ops tad Oyekan Owomoyela Gilberto Pacheco
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson Dr. Carlos’ Perez-Santos Barbara Pitschel
David SS... Pio liven
E.40. Quarcoopme
Drees Jose Ramirez—Pulido Dinte: dot eh. famicdans
Dr. Philip Ravenhill Dr. Clyde Reed
Gerardo Reichel-Dolmatoff Janet Reid
Duane H. D. Roller Warren Ryerson
Curtis W.. Sabmros ky
Mary Thomas Sargent Ellis M. Schwab
Dr. Ludwig Seligsberger Dr. Walter Shropshire Roger F. Snultis
Ray Silverman
Dr. Laurence Skog
Anita Smith
Margaret Smith
Neal Smith
Dirk H. R. Spennemann Vee Ge" Spranger
Patricia Squire
George Steyskal
Amy Stone
George Hl Stuart
Lenore Swoiskin
David J. Thomas Margaret C. Thomas Harry Todd
Pauwlwebs i todd
Grace Townsend Angelo Tremamunno Ds Pack Vanz olin Dr. Dominique Verut De. (Carlo Vislani Robert M. Vogel Roslyn Walker
R. G. Walther Ellen B. Wells George Weiss Beatrice Wetmore Dr. Dennis Whigham John H.Whites: dtr. John S. White Roger White Raymond J. Wielgus Helene E. Wright John Zimmerman George Zug

<<<Page: 319>>>

Insti tiwt ronal -Dion'or’s
Bibliotheque Forney
Center itor “History “of
Chemistry
Fundacao Afro-Brasileira de Arte
Government of Rivers State of Niveria
Ikebana International Dallas Chapter
Jewish History Society of Maryland
National Geographic Society
Okinawa Prefectural
Institute
Spanish National Commission of the Quincentennial of the Discovery of America
Verdix Corporation
Ss )
Instituto Nacional Wings Club de Los Recursos Naturales Renovables y del Ambiente
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE Facilities Development
Tupper Foundation Contribution to the Construction of the Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Center,
Educational Programs
Exxon Corporation Fellowship and Assistantship Program Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation Latin American Predoctoral
and Postdoctoral Fellowships Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr. Short-term Fellowship Program Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin Short-term Fellowship Program Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schmidt Fellowship and Assistantship
Program
Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spenser Short-term Fellowship Program
Conservation
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates = Kuna Yala Environmental Education Project
Research W. Alton Jones Foundation Alternatives to Destruction Center for Field Research/Earthwatch Tree Census on Barro
Colorado Island
Ht ie

<<<Page: 320>>>

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center books and journals on
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Silberglied,
biochemistry and physiology
Mrs. Margaret Vandoren Robert
L. Silberglied Memorial Funds
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates British documents relating to trade between Grand Colombia and the Isthmus of Panama
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY Donors to the Collection
Alfred Bodian
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Horowitz
Indian Advisory Cammittee for the Festival of India
Narinder K. Keith and Rajinder K. Keith
Gordon H. and Alm H. Mattison
Nakajima Yoichi
Dr. Arthur M. Sackler
Shiro Otani
Donors to the Collection
Dorothy Bray Charlottesville/Albemarle Foundation for the Encouragement of the Arts
George Jackson Eder
Jack B, Kent
Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P, Nolan Dr. Irving Philips
Dorothy Slak
Donors to the Study Collection
Elizabeth Berger Dorothy Bray
George Jackson Eder Harold Gottlieb John Menke
Mrs. John A. Pope
Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more Arthur M. Sackler Foundation
$50,000 or more Anonymous
$500 or more Kenneth X. Robbins Ralph Ogden Foundation, Inc.
Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more John K. Havemeyer, Estate of (Harold P, Stern Memorial Fund) Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation
$5,000 or more Mr, and Mrs. Willard G. Clark Dr, Peter F. Drucker Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation
$1,000 or more Dr. and Mrs, Stanton P. Nolan
$500. or wre Joyce Easton Ashley T. Richard Fishbein Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

<<<Page: 321>>>

Donors to the Library
Louise A. Cort Mrs. Frank A, Hassell (In Memory of Marjorie Fitch Waite)
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM Donors to the Collection
Mrs. Christian Aall
Atter Six, Ltd.
Alpenlandische Veredelungs-Industrie Gesellschaft m.b.H.
Joyce Ames
Anonymous Donors
Dr. Herbert Appel
Felice and David Axelrod
Florence I. Balasny-Barnes
Beyer Blinder Belle
Diane Benson
Bloomingdale's
Barbara E. Busch
Eileen Canning
E. Paul Charak
Quintina Colio
Aw Goltsh, Inc.
Ann Hysa Dorfsman
Alan J. Dworsky
Leo H. Dworsky
Natalie du Pasquier
Barry Friedman
Robert Fudim
Jean and Martin Gerstell
Dorothy Globus
Erica Gorecka-Egan
Rose Gottschalk
Dona Guimaraes
Dorothy Hafner
Nicholas Harris
Miss Elizabeth Haynes
Mrs. Frederick Holdsworth, Jr.
Michael Honack
Marjorie and Edward Hulla
Dora D. Ide
Barbara Jarocki
Dr. Marilyn Karmason
Judith and Steven Kattan
Jung-Hoo Kim
Jeannette D. Krongold
Arthur Lindo
Manfred Ludwig
Mr. and Mrs. Ormond Maisch
Susan Hobbs Helen Latimer Takashi Yanagi
David Marshall
Larry Marshall
Gloria A. Marsteller
Howard Marton
David R. McFadden
Barbara Miller
Robin Mix
Mobil Corporation
Cleto Munari
Oak Hill Industries Corporation
Osiris Publications, Ltd.
Patricia Pastor
Catherine C. Perkins
Frieda Perry
Porcelli Associates, Inc.
Lino Sabattini
Ben Sanders
Gayle Saunders
Seccose, Inc.
Tyler Smith
Smart Design, Inc.
Smithsonian Exhibition Traveling Service
Lydia P. Speir
Milton Sonday
Steelcase, Inc.
Paul Stiga
Peter Szego
Joey Rayburn
Mrs. Richard Rodgers
Mr. Takami Sugiura
Myron Tapler
Mrs. Lisa Taylor
Mrs. Otis Chatfield Taylor
Tucker Viemeister
Lella and Massimo Vignelli
Christopher Wadsworth
Carola Teegen Walton
Dorothy Warren
Richard E. Weinreich
Wilkens Bremen Silberwaren AG
Robert Winthrop
May Wohlman

<<<Page: 322>>>

Donors of Financial Support $100,000 or more
Der Senator ftir Kulturelle Angelegenheiten, Berlin
Smithsonian Institution Regents Special
Exhibition Fund $50,000 or more
Anonymous
Iberia Air Lines of Spain
The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.
Mobil Oil Corporation
New York State Council on the Arts
Smithsonian Institution Regents Special
Aquisitions Fund $10,000 or more
Mr. Edward Lee Cave
Comité Conjunto HispanicoNorteamericano para la Cooperacidn Cultural y Educativa
Compar, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon
Freixenet, S.A.
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin
William Randolph Hearst Foundation
Instituto de Estudios Norteamericanos
Lufthansa German Airlines
Mitchell Energy and Development Corp.
Helena Rubinstein Foundation
$5,000 or more
Ajuntament de Barcelona
Anonymous
AT&T Foundation
Arcade, Inc.
Bristol-Meyers Co.
The Cowles Charitable Trust
Gaylord Donnelly
Hardesty & Hanover
Mrs. H. J. Heinz II
Robert Krups North America
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K. McLanahan
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Milton Petrie
Pfizer, Inc.
Phillips, Ltd.
Potlatch Corporation
Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
Steelcase, Inc.
The Ralph J. Weiler Foundation
Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
$1,000 or more
Mrs. Christian H. Aall
A la Vieille Russie
Anonymous
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Allen
Avon Products, Inc.
Lee Howard Beshar
Bill Blass
Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd Brunschwig & Fils
Mrs. Jackson Burke
Citicorp Capital Investors, Ltd. The Coach Dairy Goat Farm
Condé Nast Publications, Inc. Consumers Union
The Elsie de Wolfe Foundation, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. C. Douglas Dillon Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr. Mrs. Joanne du Pont
Mr. and Mrs. George Gillespie III The Howard Gilman Foundation Albert Hadley
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred H. D. Haiblen Mrs. Enid Haupt
Herman Miller, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. George Hinman
IBM Corporation
Arata Isozaki
Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson Johnson & Higgins
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Bill Lambert
Lister Butler, Inc.
McMillen, Inc.
The Joyce Mertz-Gilmore Foundation Metropolitan Life Foundation Richard and Carole Morrill
Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr. The New York Times
The Ohrstrom Foundation
Lillian Nassau Palitz
Philip Morris Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. George Pillsbury Louis F. Polk, Jr. Prudential-Bache Securities, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II Mr. and Mrs. David Rockefeller Ted and Betsy Rogers
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Ross
Mr. Matthew Schutz
Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Virgil Sherrill Sotheby's, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. James Sowell
LS) 1H nn

<<<Page: 323>>>

$1,000 or more, continued
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Stanton
Mr. George Stavropoulos
Stroheim & Romann
Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger
Mr. Bertrand L. Taylor III
The Tisch Family
Marietta Tree
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Publishers
$500 or more
Mr. Hervé Aaron
Armin B. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul Mr. and Mrs. Mark Andrews
W. Graham Arader III
Mr. and Mrs. Tobin Armstrong Banco Industrial de Venezuela Irwin Belk
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Blanchard Mr. and Mrs. John D. Block
Mr. and Mrs. Dixon Boardman Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Brady Edward Bramson
Mario Buatta
Mr. and Mrs. John Chancellor Mr. and Mrs. Denis P. Coleman, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon Mrs. Jan Cowles
Mrs. Joanne Toor Cummings Priscilla Cunningham
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Dana Mr. and Mrs. Marquette de Bary Mr. and Mrs. Loic de Kertanguy Edward de Pasquale
Mr. James L. Ferguson
Mrs. Mary Ann Fribourg
Mrs. Morton Globus
Mr. Harmon Goldstone
Mr. and Mrs. David Granger Bruce Gregga
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Gregory
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Gutfreund Mr. and Mrs. Mark Hampton Hearst Magazines
Marife Hernandez
Walter W. Hess, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John Hilson
Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Hirschfeld Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Ireland III Henry Anthony Ittleson
Harry A. Jacobs, Jr.
Richard Jenrette
Mr. and Mrs. David T. Johnston
Mrs. Ely Jacques Kahn
Mr’. and Mrs. E. J. Kahn, Jr.
Honorable Francis L. Kellogg
Gilbert Kiggins
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Landrigan
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Lapham, Jr.
Jack Lenor Larsen Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Lauder
Patricia Kennedy Lawford
Mr.and Mrs. Samuel Lebowitz
Lee Jofa Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Derek Limbocker
Mr. and Mrs. Laurence F. Lindeman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. Lombard
Magowan Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. David J. Mahoney
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Marron
Mr. and Mrs. David B. Martin
Mr. and Mrs. Roman Martinez IV
Mrs. John A. Morris
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Mortimer
George Nichols III
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Niven
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Nye
Orrefors
Paine Webber
Melinda Florian Papp
Gordon B. Pattee
Mr. and Mrs. William Patton
Mary H. Peabody
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Pflueger
Mary Jane Pool
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Purnell
Mr. and Mrs. John S. Pyne
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Racamier
Howard Rea
Julia Robinson
Mr. and Mrs. Laurance S. Rockefeller
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Safdie
Scalamandré Silks
Benno C. Schmidt
Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz
William T. Seed
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Seiter
Mrs. Joseph E. Sheehan
Talbot Shelton
Tiffany & Co.
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Tilchman
Robert S. Trump
Mr. and Mrs. Senen Ubifia
Mr. and Mrs. Gerrit P. Van de Bovenkamp
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Victoria

<<<Page: 324>>>

$500 or more, continued
Mr. and Mrs. Rawleigh Warner Richard M. Wasserman
Mr. and Mrs. James E. Watkins P. A. B. Widener
Mr. and Mrs. R. Thornton Wilson
$250 or more
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas N. Armstrong III Mrs. Frances B. Atkins
Mrs. Douglas Auchincloss Mildred H. Beattie
A. Van H. Bernhard
Nadine Bertin
Denise Bouche
Garrett R. Bowden
Courtney P. Bowles
Peter Bradford
Frederick C. Bremer
James L. Buttenweiser
Alan Campbell
Mr. and Mrs. Cass Canfield, Jr. Lucy Canger
Ralph Caplan
Bonnie Cashin
Oleg Cassini
Jane Clark Chermayeff Jean-Claude Christo and Christo Mrs. Barclay Colt
Michael A. Connors
Jill Cowen
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Coy
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Davis Elizabeth de Cuevas
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dickey, Jr. Niels Diffrient and Helena Hernmarck Dr. William P. Duggan
Mr. and Mrs. Albert I. Edelman Mr. William Cc. Ellis
Mr. Talton R. Embry
André Emmerich
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Feld
Mr. and Mrs. David Fenichel George Ford
Mr. and Mrs. Gary Fradin
M. Paul Friedberg
James Galanos
Howard and Judie Ganek
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner Milton Glaser
GN Associates
Mrs. Hugh J. Grant
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Gwathmey Jane and Arthur Hadley
Frances Halsband and Robert Kliment
Hugh and Tiziana Hardy
Michael J. Harkins
Mr. and Mrs. Horace Havemeyer III Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Hearst, Jr. Kirk Henkels
Harry Hinson III
Philip Hirschler
Hans Hollein
Thomas and Nancy Hoving
Heidi Humphrey
Eric W. Hurner
Julia Ireland
Mary Jickiewicz
Vladimir Kagan
Theodore N. Kaplan
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III Bill N. Lacy
Mr. and Mrs. P. Baxter Lanius Michael Lax
Mrs. Ruth E. Lese
Richard Loew
Louis Vuitton USA
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes Esther Shady Masters
Mr. and Mrs. Francis McAdoo, Jr. Mary McFadden
Mr. and Mrs. Louis A. McMillen Kevin McNamara
Frederick A. Melhado
Mr. and Mrs. George Merck Robert Metzger
Renée Meyers
Clarence Michalis
Julienne Michel
Kenneth Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Milliken Judith York Newman
Gladys and Michael Newmark George C. Nichols
Michael Nicoletta
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Norris, Jr. Dr. Jurgen Ohlau
Mr. and Mrs. Derek Ostergard Mr. and Mrs. Marc C. Ostrow Denise Otis
Cesar Pelli
Arnold Penner
Amy Petronis
Harold F. Pfister
Arnold Polinsky
Mr. and Mrs. James Polshek
Theo Portnoy
Dr. and Mrs. Jeffrey D. Postman Dr. and Mrs. R. A. Rees Pritchett Perry T. Rathbone

<<<Page: 325>>>

$250 or more, continued Mr. and Mrs. Rodman Rockefeller Dorcas Roehrs Mr. and Mrs. Richard Rosan Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Ross Mr. and Mrs. Shoji Sadao John F. Saladino Rosita Sarnoff Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schlossberg Mr. and Mrs. Morton Jay Seifter Ann Sheps Deborah Shinn Lucie Jadot Shirazi Barbara and Inge Skjelfjord Jonathan Snellenburg
Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel and
Carl Spielvogel Mr. and Mrs. Christopher D. Stack John Stair Robert A. M. Stern David M. Swersky Mrs. T. Suffern Tailer Mrs. Regine Traulsen George H. Uihlein Anna Glen Vietor George and Gerda Walling Carmel S. Wilson Robert C. Woolley
Donors to the Collection
Jonathan B. Aaronsohn Hildegard Arbiter Robert Arneson Stanley Bard
Louis Helion Blair Grace Borgenicht Roberta L.A. Carroll Peggy Charren
Mark L. Edelman
Sam Francis
Randy Hansen
Robert Lehrman
Charles W. Millard
Mr. and Mrs. J.V. Mladek
Henry Ward Ranger Purchase Fund, National Academy of Design
Frank Ribelin
Margaret Schultz
Janet Solinger
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Sundells Louis Wener Mr. and Mrs. Allan White
Donors of Financial Support
$25,000 or more Credit Suisse Xerox Corporation
$10,000 or more J. Paul Getty Trust
$5,000 or more James Smithson Society Stratton Commercial Carpets Leonard Yaseen Foundation
Donors to the Library
Gene LePere, Hollywood, Olga Hirshhorn, Washington,
$1,000 or more
S.I. Women's Committee Sandoz, Inc.
George W. Johnson, Engineers
Jt. >, GAL
$25 or more John Brand Ridgewells Caterer, vonn Ji. Brady; Jr James T. Demetrion Art Lover's League
ine.
Florida DG.

<<<Page: 326>>>

NATICNAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM Deners Cr, Financial .Succcr=
$100,000 ocr more
Digital Eqcuizment CSrscraticn Easuman Kecak Ccmcany
$50,000 cr more
Internaticnal Teleccmmmicaticns
Satellite Crganizaticn
Martin Mariet=a Corpcraticn Alfred P. Slean Fourcaticn Inisys Corscraticn
Amertcan Express Corgecraticn
$10,000 or more
Paine-Wetker Cevelcrment Corp. T. Rowe Price Asscciatss, Inc. Drexel Purmham Lamber=, Inc. Molex, Inc.
Gennets Co. Ine.
Pan American World Airways, Inc. Westinghouse Electric Corp.
Ieckhesd Missiles and Srace Co., Inc. Mer~ill Lynch Capital Markets
McScmnell Deuglas Astxcenautics Co. The Bceing. Co.
American Steck Exchars
Naticnal Gecorarhic Sceciety
Perin-=lmer Corp
Trea Gnas Fem Wo ecer orn ine Greemwicn NCLXSsccp, ne.
— i we
Doners to the collecticn
All Nirscn Airways ATST Bell Laboratory
Jeserh Allen
Iecn Arpleraum
Ncel R. Baccn
Ball Aercsrac2 Systems Cnarles H. Becarc Sara Dudley Brown
Miao Cor-orataen
William G. Carlisle Icuis Carola, Jr. Kathleen Caray Michael Collins Icuis Carola, Jr. Henry F. Colvin
$5,000 or mcra
McCcmmell Deuglas Feurcaticn
$1,000..or mors Gecrse Mueller Sanders ard Asscciates Naticnal Space Club General Elect=ic Corgcraticn The Whirly Girls Scholarship Pund, Inc.
500 or mcr) Keystcne Aerial Surveys, Inc. BD. C.. Fazio Asscciaticn of Naval Aviaticn, Ine.
Jetirey Shedd American Institute of
Aercnautics and Astronautics Helen Mccv-ay
$250 or more Travel Dynamics, Inc
Rebert R. McKeskin
Rebert B. Mills
Nerman Meccra
Marks Morziscn, Donald Scorfield, and Heward Recker iscn
Themas Muir
Jim Nawara
NASA, Ames Research Center
NASA, Headquarters
NASA, Jchnson Space Flight Canter
Naticnal Ccsanic and Atmescheric Acministraticn
Naval Research Laboratory

<<<Page: 327>>>

Les)
Herswaxd Lester Cocke Fourdaticn
Daniel J. Desser=
The Early Birds of Aviaticn, Inc.
Lee Embree
Barclay Ferguscn
Firearms Identificaticn Lakcratcry
Galerie Decuments
Charles W. Genrke
George Guzzi, dr.
Richard A. Henscn
Intarnaticnal Air Leases, Inc.
TEM Corporation
Clintcn Jcnes, Jr.
Shirley Jcserch
Major Ctto Kamny
Fred C. Knauer
Timethy Lloyd
Ican Family Commmity Croanizaticn ef Greater Fhiladelrhia
Ieckhesd Missiles ard Sracs Comeany, Inc.
Nancy Levencanhl
Jceserh Lucas
Lutthansa German Airlines
Norman MacYarlane
Nick Maccocs
George McCsy
Mctcnnell Douglas Astronautics Combary
Stuart G. Newman
Grarktes A. Csserm, dx:
Cole Palen
Patarscn Museum
Catherine Fhilliss
Charles Rhcaces
Al Renrbaucn
Relis-Reve2, Inc.
Reyal Air Force
Saint Mary's Ecspital
Sects Aviation
Bernard E. smith, Jr.
Smithsenian Instituticn Traveling Exnibits
Emil Cc. Scemmerfelct
Gree Su. “Clar=
Zezislaw I. Szewozyk
Dis Pecouceoon
U.S. Air Ferca Museum
Fert Mesce Amy Museum
U.S. Marine Corps Museum
U.S. Naval Air Develcement Center
U.S. Navy
Richard Wekb
Escat2 of Paul Wilkinscn
Marin Willochs
B. A. Williams
E. Dale Witz
Gen. amd Mrs. Charles =. Yeacer
Nancy Yolen
Deners to the Information Management Divisicr
Aveo Lycoming
Rex T. er
Estat] of Ralph Stanton Barnaby Maricn Barzy , Jr.
Wilfred C. Becker
Glenn F. Bcas
Warxen M. & Catherine C. Bedie Gary Brounst2in
David R. Bryant
Nick Chacss
Cden Chaney
Henry H. Cherry
Paul L. Creslev
Neil Cleers
Jack C. Cleric
Mary Wells Geer Jcse Villela Gemez Ecyntcn Hacaman Mary Haizlip
csid T. Hanzalek Millard Harmen Maricn S. Harziscn Bernice Haycu Rerers F. Hegenkerser Jchn Hirsh Walter T. Holmes Page Lee Hurty Paul A. Hunter Jeffarsen D. Jernicin, Jr.
7 Tc? Clarence "Kelly" Jcnnscr

<<<Page: 328>>>

Helen I. Cock
Verma S..Cse!
Be A. Ceome
Myrile W. Cumeo
Charles Cunningham
Curtiss-Wright Corseraticn
Jce Cavidsen
R. E. G. Davies
Muriel Smith Leardeor=f
J. T. Debnam
Cerarmnent of Aercnautics, NASM
Derarmment of Srace Science and Exploraticn, NASM
W.. dieDixcn
Cenald Cencvan
Dan Cumicz=u
Easter Airlines Inc.
Lemnard Ese
Fairchild Rerublic Conrany
Federal Aviaticn Acminiscraticn
Sam relcaman
Georse H. Fisher 5 dr.
Karen S. Franklin
Paul E. Garzer
William R. Gateley
Colm M. Geary
Al Fezzoli
Eugene Risedorsh
Dorstiy Renckevitz
Renjamin Ruhe
Herzer= H. Ruse
lee Saegesser
Roland B. Scst=
Smithscen1 ieSceeiceen EVorares
Sterhen Solanic
Ellic F. Scmer William J. Stadlman Cnarles Stantcn , Jr. Sterchen Stcn
S. Conovan Swann , Jr. Far! H. Symends
Zdzislaw I. Szewozyk
Billie TJchrsen
Rick Leyes
Marseret Cc. Love
Eric, lumdan!
Sareh N. McClerden
Jacksen F. Mccsy
Bar Bruno! Maclicess
Harold R. Metcalt
Reber= B. Mever , Jr.
Michelin & Cie
Vern Mccelard
Rick Mcccy
National Aercnautics ard Srace Acministraticn
Vivian Gilchrist Nemnauser
Charles Hamscn Nerzh
Bill Parker
Larry Pistole
Estate of James R. Fortertield
Cnarles Ecward Tayler IT
Ea Thurmcr
U.S. Air Force Museum
U.S. Naval Ckservatory
United Technolegies Corgeraticn
W. R. Viclen
Samuel Waltcn
James Ecwin Webb
Fred Wellman
Maceline West>surg
Alcert Wnalev
Gorden Elict White
Ann Weed
William R. Weed
Feter Zollman

<<<Page: 329>>>

Tenors to the Collecticn
All Niceen Airways: 2 flicht attendant umiferms with accessories.
ATSTRPellnlebcratory: meceleorsfirse transistor.
Air Traffic Control Asscciaticn: Glen A. Gilbert Memerial Award, trorhy.
Dr. Jceserh Allen: tcy oyrcsccre, 2 gyresccre metal thimbles ard metal placue.
Mr. Lecn Arpleraum: glass tcwl, Cutside View: Impressicn of Flicht Technoleay by doner.
Mr. Ncel R. Bacon: "Flying Tiger" scar=, Javanese shrecnel fracment, cersmcnial Japanese dagger, 3 star flying medal ard "Cloud ard Blecd Barner" mecal.
Ball Aeresrace Systems: Infrared Astrencmical Satellite (TRAS).
Mr. -Ciarles: fH. Recaro: 18 iccmmercial aviatien pesters.
Ms. Sara Dudley Brown: Fokker F=-30 aircraft medel.
Contac, Corecraticni:= 64 fiicne: inscsuments.
Mr. William G. Carlisle: Sccwith Camel walking stick.
Mr. Lewis Carola, Jr.: lumar medule windccw shade test strip.
Ms. Kathleen Carey: oil painting, New Day: Sky ard Zarth by denoer.
Mr. Michael Collins: varicus certificates, placues and rersen memorabilia.
Mr. Henry F. Colvin: Orville Wright letter to Fred Colvin, 2 commemorative medals, 2 prorams, 2 menus, 1 invitaticn ard 1 seating list for varicus hener dinners.
Hereward Lester Cocke Feurdaticn threuch Wilscn T.M. Burke: lithesgraph on paper, Farch Crust by Rebert Rauschenberg.
Mr. Daniel J. Ccsser=: Naval Aircraft Factory FN-9 aircraft Mcdel.
The:Farly Birds.of Aviatien, Inc: through Forrest: E. Wyseng: Early Bird Placue.
Mr. Lee Embree: Continental aircraft engine cutaway, Sensenich prereller and silk parachute.
Mr. Barclay Fercuscn: acrylic painting, Gver Carmel Valley by doner. Firearms Identificaticn Laberateory threuch R.R. Hawkins: 3 Scviet fixed caricns.
Galerie Cecuments: aviaticn pester. Dr. Caarles W. Gehrke: Varian 2100 series chrematccrerh.
Mr. George Guzzi, Jr.: watercolor cn parer, Cale A. Garéner, Srace Shutele Missicn 51-4 by denor. Mr. Richard A. Hemscn: de Havilland DHC-3 aircraft medel.
International Air Leases, Inc.: Rolls-Royce Comway turbojet engine.
Intermaticnal Business Machines Corperaticn: vacuum tube rack.
Mr. Clintcn Jones, Jr.: World War I German Parabellum machine gun.
Ms. Shirley Jcsech: Hartzell preseller.
Major Ctto Kanny: 3 USAF ast<cnaut winss.
Mr. Fred C. Knauer: Daimler-2enz airccoled 2-cylinder engine.
Mr. Timothy Lloyd: 2 pieces made of titanium, silver, delrin ard plastic, Lard Drift Breech ard Lardscare by denor.
Ica Family Commmity Organizaticn of Greater Fhiladelrnia: Lao Beun Barg Fei Recket.
Leckheed Missiles and Space Company, Inmc.: Hubble srace talesccre test vehicle.

<<<Page: 330>>>

enewel Series:
Ms. Nancy Icverdanl: glazed and staired rercelain, Urhen {The Barvese by dencr: Terear? Tiimacs WAM Suey Johor 3 a Aal 7 UCSeen shucas': Alle Trane "Susher: qircrar emcee, Iutthansa German Airlines threuch Herr Willi Vecler: Junkers JU 52/in iperare mee.
Mr. Norman Mactarlare: weceden aircraft medel cf a flying Ecat,
tWAc-t2a-rea". Mr. Nick Mecccs:; 2° taintinrces, Baran Orbit: A Disecant Temerzcw and Bessre
Necoirme by Reker= Mccall.
Mr. George McCsv: acrylic painting, Caallercer STS-7 by dencr. McDcmnell Deuglas Astrecnautics Cameany: space staticn mecel.
Dr. Rebert R. McKeekin: Tactair tyre T-3 autcpilct system.
Mr. Rebert B. Mills: World War I Waltham aircratt clock.
Mr. Norman Mcore: 2 World War IT gumsicnts.
Mr. Marks Morsisen, [cenald Scoffield and Heward Rckertscn: Mercury 4
spacecrait paris.
Mr. Thomas Muir: piece of silver and titanium, Fields Bin by dcnroer.
Mr. Jim Nawara: sericgrach cn parer, Darm=ncer by dccncr.
Naticnal Aeronautics and Srace Acminiscraticn, Ames Research Canter: terzain beard and equircment.
Naticnal Aeronautics and Space Administration, Headquarters: memorial placue;, SIS *Si=L.
Naticnal Aercnautics and Space Acministxraticn, Jchmscn Srace Flight Canter: launch/entry coveralls worn by Congressman Bill Nelsen, shuttle svacefccd, shuttle focd tray, shuttle tile and remcte maniculatcr system (shutcle mechanical arn).
Naticnal Oceanic ard Atncsrheric Acministraticn, Naticnal Envircrmental Satellite, Data and Informaticn Service: Satellita Infrared Scecttcemeter (SIRS) instruments.
Naval Research Lakcratery: aerenemy artifacts.
Mr. Stuar= G. Newman: World War IT German aerial camera, Harndckemmer HK.
Mi, -GharlessA SOskcrms oi. :,\ AbSoWw. sccbe dirorare.
Mr. Cole Dalen: Vickers machine cun.
Paterscn Museum: 2 aircraft engines (Curtiss Wricht Wankel and Curtiss Wricht remjet) and a Harczell 3-blace orcreller.
Ms. Catherine Fhillirs: 8 sericrarnms, Hot Air Balleocn, Harcing Twentz (Hara Glider), Cassna, Gyvrceccoptar, Sailplane, Pararoil Parachuts, Parachuts Tew, Cne Giant Sten for T.V., and 1 acrylic painting, Cassa by Clayton Fond.
Mr. Charles Rhcades: Nelscn Hummirchird aircraft.
Mr. Al Renr>auch: Ornitherter Rehrbauch medel aircraft.
Rolls-Revee, Inc.: Rellis-Royce Virer turzcjet aircrart engine.
Reyal Air Force: Rolls-Reyce Derwent Mark 3 turhojet aircraft engine.
Saint Mary's Hespital: Julie GAS flicht patches.
Scstt Aviation: 23 varicus pieces of oxygen ecuinment.
Mr. Bernard E. ith, Jr.: 2 cachet covers of the Anglo-American Geedwill Corenaticn Flicht.
Smithscnian Instituticn Traveling Exhibits: North American P-51D Mustand aircrare mecel.
Mr. Emil C. Scmmerteldt: airline passenger seat.
Mr. Greg St. Clair: Deuglas [C-3 ai
Mr. Zdzislaw I. Szewcozyk: 29 pieces of wearen equipment.
ectronic, communication and

<<<Page: 331>>>

ies)
TVS Precucticn: Mustard mecel, (British) shuttle tyce craft.
U.S. Air Force Museum, Wricht-Patiarscn AFB: 8 Erewning, 2 Breda ard 1 Eetchkiss machine guns.
Fert Mead Army Muse: Pratc ard Whitmey turécfan aircraft ercgine.
U.S. Marine Corss Air-Greurd Museum: U.S. Navy srace pilcts suitcase, 3 aircratt engines (Continental, Lyccming and Franklin) ard 3 aircrart wheels.
U.S. Naval Air Cevelcrment Canter: Univac 1819 airberne dicital camcuter ard interface conscle.
U.S. Navy?» Caance Veucht RF-8G Crusader aircrart.
Unknewn: single white rese received after the exmlcsicn of the space shuttle.
Mr. Richard Wekb: wumiform and memorabilia from Captain Midnicht televisicn shcw.
Estate of Paul Wilkinsen threuch Lawrence C. Sween: Wricnt Flyer (1903) Plece of fapric.
Mr. Martin Willcecns: lithccrarh on parer,
ontess by dencer.
Mr. B.A. Williams: battery charger.
Mr... E. Dale Wits: Srerxy directicnal gyro. cutaway.
General and Mrs. Charles E. Yeacer: varicus articles of flicht clothing, mecals, awerds ard memorabilia.
Ms. Narcy Yolen: silver, mecnstcne and acrylic jewelry, Veovacer IT™ Pin by dcnor.
Tilinois State Fair Plewin
a : Se ea tes 1 = apie ECrers © Cae Ine tocn Manacement Divisicn
— ab ee to ee ieee
Aveo Lyceming: 12 pesters of Avco Lycemirg ergines, 1986.
Colcrel Rex T. Barber: audio tare cf a screech given by Jchn W. Mitchell, Gcesrer 1985.
Estate of Ralch Stantcon Barmaky: extensive bicorarhical material on Ralsh Stanton Barmakv, 1915-1986. _ ed
The Ecncrable Marion Rarzy J. tanth anniversary.
Mr. Wilfred C. Beckert: scrarkeck cn early aviaticn, 1904-1927.
. oe 7 Seren eee A ' r.: letter of commercaticn cn thie Musemm's
ey J . Hse AA e rm = Var s+ + ah
Dr. Glerm F. Ecas: tual titled "Hand Sewing of Material fer mh sey = _——_ Qs 5 pwn ony JA70 Covering of Airplane Surfaces," Cctcber 1919.
Mr. & Mrs. Warren M. & Catherine C. Bedie: 116 phcetcorarchs ard 54 necatives of varicus aircraft, 1914-1970.
—— /
an a : : : 2 aime Mea Gata srcursesins 2 Cestscrerns OL Vericus aizcrars, 1S387%
. | b=] =_ + ar : a Say H$meat7 m~arit Mr. David R. Bryemt: ten pnotccracns of the Srace Snoutile "Challenger
explesicn, Jamuary 1986. Mr. Nick Chaccs: a Ecoklet titled "25 Missicns The Story of the Memrhis Belle," July 1943.
—_—=y;
Mr. Céen Cnanev: photesrach of the crew of the XM—-1 naval airship, 1944. roa
x tr, z _ o tnt oaed a os eee oe Mey rey : Mr. Benry H. Cner=sv: plams for the Horcen H-LV flying wing glicer arc’a : : 2 =e German Manuscript concerning stress analyses, 1973.
Mr. Paul L Chesley: 24 photcorarhs of the Rerublic F-105G, circa 1967.
; 7 y ats = Peseccat . Mr. Neil Cleers: 14 pestars of Garret= timine engin
ae a =

<<<Page: 332>>>

Mr. Jack C. Clerk: two manuals on the LeRhcne retary ercine ard the Niewussre airplane, circa 1917.
Mrs. Helen DT. Ccok::phetserarh of Charles.A. Lindkersh's cadet: flying class at Breck Field, Texas, taken in 1924.
Mrs. Verna S. Cock: bicgrarhical material on Bessie Coleman.
Mr. E.,A.. Crome: mencdrapn, titled. "frem-Shits to Helicsotars;," bywEi JA. Crame, and material on hot-air ballecning in Australia.
Mrs. Myrcle W. Cumeo: 55 uncublished pen and ink drawircs bv Jenn R. Gimeo, circa 1947.
Mr. Caarles Cunningham: bicgrarhical matarial on Alkert C. Read, dated 1906=L9125
Cartiss-Wright Corscraticn: cover 600 patents decumenting the evoluticn of the Curtiss-Wricnt Corperation.
Mr. Jce Davidsen: cigar box proof of Har=iet Quimby, circa 1920-1930.
Mr. R. E. G. Davies: rescurce material for R. E. G. Davies' beck titled
Retels ard Reformers of the Airwavs, 19438-1987.
Mrs. Muriel Smith CeardorS=: bicgrarhical material on Glenn Irwin Smith, circa 1914-1918.
Mrs. J. T. Cecnmam: material certaining to the tubular fuselace work of General Jconn T. Themescn, 1920-1922.
Derartment of Aeronautics, NASM: records collected by Capntain Edwerd V. Rickenbacker decumenting the 94th Aero Scquadren during World War I.
Cerarmment of Aeronautics, NASM: three drawings of the Northrep NIM Flying Wing prototyre bomber, undatad.
Cerarmment or Aeronautics, NASM: audio tare interview and transcript of Lymn Rirplemeyer, May 1985.
Cerermnent of Aercnrautics, NASM: audio tare interview and transcript ci
Le. Col. Yverrme C. "Fact" Pataman, Sectemcer 1985.
Cerarmnent of Aercnautics, NASM: audio tare interview of Le. Beth Hukerc, Aucust 1985.
Derarcment of Aercnautics, NASM: audio tare interview of Tcky Felker, Jume 1985.
Cerarcnemt of Aercnautics, NASM: audio tare interview cf Nancy Fitzrcv, January 1986.
Derermment of Aercnautics, NASM: audio tare intarview of Janet Rassmussen, May 1985.
Derarcment of Aercnautics, NASM: audio tare interview orf Jean Ress Howard, November 1985.
Derartment of Aercnautics, NASM: audio tare interview of Marcaret C. Marky" [ceve, June 1985.
Derarmcnent of Scace Science ard Emleraticn, NASM: blueprints for the V-2 recket cowerplant, 1943-1945.
Devarmment of Space Science and Eclcraticn, NASM: cortespenden Gemini 4 and 5 flight crews, 1965.
Mr. W. J. Dixon: Aero Club cf America certificate, 1912.
Mr. Denald Dencvan: an unrublished maruscrint titled "Eagles' Nest West," om the history of Caklarnd International Airport.
Mr. Dan Dumitru: biccrarnical material on several Remanian aviaticn Dicneers, 1989-1935.
Eastern Airlines Inc.: material from the Eastern Airlines Corporate Library, 1930-1976.
i oO
. Lennard Ege: material on the history cf aviaticn in Demmarx, 1906-1981.
Mr. Ariel Fabius: photcorarchs of Uruguayan military aircraft, 1917-1962.

<<<Page: 333>>>

Fairchild Recublic Comeany: 1939 contract with U.S. War Derar=nent for eichty Fairchild P44 airplanes.
Mr. David Farer: phetcerarhs of the l0lst fichter scuadren, circa 1941-1945.
Messrs. David Farer, Sam Felaman, Al Fozzoli: 114 chetcgrarhs of the Israeli War for Inderencence, dated circa 1945-1980.
Feceral Aviaticn Acministration: five special studies of air reutses ard facilities, 1939-1957.
Dr. George H. Fisher, Jr.: scrapkcok of Alaskan photcorarhy, 1939 and 1941.
Mr. William A. Fleming: Natinal Aercnautics and Srace Acminiscraticn Ad Hec Caommittse records cn the Arcllo precram, 1961.
Ms. Karen S. Franklin: material on the Rumler airplane develcred by Julian Spiegel, 1904-1930.
Dr. Paul E. Garser: two newsrarer articles on the 1909 ballecn race in Indianarolis, Indiana.
Dr. Paul E. Garker: bicgrarhical material on Acmiral Patrick Bellinger, 1984.
Mr. William R. Gateley: scrarkcok of photccrarhs taken by William R. Gateley during Werld War I.
Mr. Colm M. Geary: eight phetcararhs of the Amelia Earhart Memorial in Londonderxy Northern Ireland, and a commemorative pregram.
Mrs. Mary Wells Geer: bicorarhical material cn Ecward C. Wells, 1914-1986.
Mr. Jése: Villéla Goméz: 22 phetsgrarhs of a Curtiss: C-46, “circa 1986:
Mr. Ecvntcn Haceman: seven bluecrints cf a Pietenrol airplane, 1933-1934.
Mrs. Mary Haizlip: urvublished manuscrists written by James "Simmie" Haizlip, 1930-1982.
Ms. Astrid T. Hanzalek: aviaticn picneer Gecrce Ce Bothezat's nctas on the develcrment of a mathematical theory, 1923.
Dr. Millard Harmen: biccrarhical material on Dr. Millard Harmen.
Mrs. Marion S. Harriscn: phetcoerarks ard bicerarhical material on kallccnist Gecrge Blair Harziscn, 1904-1979.
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Harciscn: bicgrerhical material cn Walter 2. ‘Jehnscn, UOUVO=1973'.
Mrs. Bernice Haycu: material on women Air Force service pilots, 1944-1980.
terial on is
Mr. Robert F. Hecenberser: bicgrarhical mataz Hecenkercer, 1895-1983. Mr. Jchn Hirsh: two articles cn airplane etiquettes in 1920. Mr. Walter T. Holmes: biccrarhical material cn Walter T. Holmes. Mrs. Pace Lee dutty: material cn the Guka Flying Beat, 1939-1940, 1946, ard 1972. Mr. Paul A. Hunter: material cn general aviaticn, circa 19230-1980.
Tats, t Tarics T . Ree Amr? ae = ; i—— Mrs. Jefierscn D. Jermicgin , Jr.: pretcoraph aleum of the Cuist Bircren, undated.
Mr. Clarence "Kelly" Jchmscn: slides and a transcrint of a speech given by Clarence "Kelly" Jcnmscn at the Naticnal Air ard Scace Musem, circa 1980.
Mrs. Billie Jchmscn: phcotcgrarh of Willa B. Brewn, circa l
Mrs. Helene B. Karstans: drawings of varicus aircraft by N Griftt Karstenms, 1977-1978, ard 1986.
Ms. Linda Killen: three rhetssrarhs of Amelia Earhart and friends, circa 1930.
Mr. Lester E. Klean: biccrarchical material cn Peccy Salaman Bell, 1984.

<<<Page: 334>>>

Mr. Fred Cc. Knauer: extensive material cn the College Park (Maryland) Aircort, 1903-1986.
Mr. Ed Lawlar: audio tare interview of Helen Barney Derewsky, daucntar o aircrart builder Coleman J. Barney.
Mr. & Mrs. Rekert G. Leary: 21 drawings ard cne pester of World War IT aviaticn.
Mr. W. N. Leslie: the Acmiral Maxell Franklin Leslie parers, circa 1940s.
Mr. Rick Leyes: microfilm records and index on Beech Aircraft Corseraticn and Beech Mccel 17, circa 1926-1944,
Ms. Marcaret C. Love: bicorachical material on Nancy Love, 1926-1976.
Mr. Eric Limdahl: phctcgrarhs of the 1986 air meet in Cshkesh, Wisccnsin.
Ms. Saran N. McClenden: material on the Cefense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services, 1951-1986.
Mr. Jackson F. McCsy: biograrhical material cn Charles Wesley "Cari" Cnarman, 1919.
Dr. E. Bruno Magliccco: the General Vincenzo Magliccco Collection, circa 1936.
Mr. Harold R. Metcalf: 23 volume set of training manuals from tm Aviation Institutes, circa 1914 ard 1928.
Mr. Rebert B. Meyer , Jr.: extensive biccraphical material, photcgrarphs, and records or Dr. Arthur Nute, 1915-1945,
Michelin & Cie: manual titled "Technical Notes cn the Brecuet
AS Poe Tyce," 1o82 and’ 3 cnctserarnss
ial)
Aercolane-1
Mr, Vern Mccelard: records of Vern Mccelard's asscciaticn with Beech Aircrart Cammany, 1965-1975.
Mr. Rick Mccdy: bicorarhical material en Chandler Batss and Crestar Weisskerh, dated 1910-1913.
Naticnal Aercrautics and Srace Acministzraticn: 20 keeks ard corresperdins Microfiche titled "NASA Imcexes to News Releases ard Sreeches," 1963-1984.
Naticnal Aercrautics ard Srace Acministraticn: three mylar drawings of the Limar Reving Vehicle, circa 1966.
Mrs. Vivian Gilchrist Nemhauser: records of the Wemen Flyers of America, 1940-1955.
Mrs. Charles Hamscn Nerth: newsrarer frem the S disarcearance of Amelia Earhart, 1937.
Mr. Bill Parker: bicgrachical material cn Bill Parker.
Mr. Larxy Pistole: extensive material on the Flying Ticers, 1921-1942.
Estate of James R. Porterfield: phetcerach of Wricnt flyer sicned by
rville Wricht, ard award given Cavid A. Lingle by King Gecrsge ard Queen Mary, November 1945.
Mr. Eugene Risecorsn: drawings by Eucene Risecorsh of the Martin B-i0 ard the Beeing YIE-17, 1980.
Mrs. Dorothy Renckovitz: bicgrarhical material on early aviator Edward lee "Swanee" Taylor, 1937 and undated.
Mr. Benjamin Ruhe: extensive research material on becmerares.
Dr. Hercer: H.,. Rust: black. and. wnite. shotccrachs of varicus aircrars.
Mr. Lee Saecesser: matarial covering several asrects of aviaticn, 1919-1978.
Le. Col. Roland B. Scotti: bicqrephical material en Jefferscn Davis "Duka! Jernigin, dated 1917-1939.
Y) é i. (D r ‘ 0 i : Q fF (D

<<<Page: 335>>>

ithscnian Imstituticn Libraries: two shenecrarh albums of an airmen interview: cn the "Stars: and Stzires" pregram by the British Breaccascincg; Csrscraticn,circa 1941%
Mr. Sterhen Solanic: drawings cf the Stanley Nomad Seaplane, umcatsd.
Mr. Ellic F. Scmer: drawines of the SPAD XIII, 1987.
Mr. William J. Stadlman: phetcgrarch ef Ruth Law, undated.
Mr. Charles Stanton , Jr.: extensive bicorarhical material on Charlies Stantsn, 1917-1973.
Mr. Sterhen Stone: two issues of Trade-a-Dlane magazine, 1937 ard 1987.
Mr. S. Dencvan Swann , Jr.: bicgrarhical material on Samuel Lencvan Swann, 1918-1925.
Mr. Earl H. Symerds: bombing survey ard a beck titled Your Pest-War Dlacs in Aviation, circa 1940.
Mr. Zdzislaw I. Szewozyk: Airborne Radar Technical Archive, circa 1941-1974.
Mr. Charles Ecward Tayler II: corresrendence of Charles Edward Taylor Sr., mechanic for Orville ard Wilbur Wricht, 1928-1966.
Mr... Ed; Thurmend: revert on the Asren/Piktin County (Colorado) Airvort, July 1986.
United States Air Force Museum: 250 rchotcgrarhs of the 148th Aero Squacron, circa 1914-1918.
United Statas Air Force Museum: 36 glass plates of Pre-wWerld War I
United States Naval Chservatory: Science Service reference files cn ascrcnamy amd srac2 science.
United Techmolegies Cormeraticn: photesrarh ef a Prati-whitmey J-37 engine, undatsad.
United; Techrolegies Corscraticn: microfiche ef Sikersky helicsster svecificaticns, 1942-1948, ard 1958.
Mr. W. R. Viclen: letter dated 1834 dccumenting William durmard's atismct at el iehe.
Mr. Sameel Walton: biccrarhical material cn Samtel Thomas Waltcn, cated 1920-1939.
Mr. James Ecwin Wekb: the James Ecwin Wekb Farers, circa 1501-1985.
Mr. Fred Wellman: seven air transrccre label catalcoves, 1982-1986.
Mrs. Maceline Westhurg: mylar drawings cf 3 W. Westcurg between 1970 ard 1981.
Mrs. Alser= Whalev: ehetcsrerh of Charles A. Lincberch are General Russell, circa 1927.
Mr. Gorden Eliot White: corporate files and engineering recorcs of the
ircrate Radio Cormcraticn amd Radio Frecuency Laboratcries,. circ
1921-1984.
Ms. Ann Weed: material on the Air Transcecrt Ammclary, 1940-1986.
x Testis TJ, Cer eee oe eT oo 3 — 7 6 Mr. Willsam R. Weed: diari of George W. Weed , Jr., and a chetcorern os = 4r ers ee ee a a 3 7 " 3=_I19G45 alvum or the 475th Ficntsr Greup, "Satan's ancels," 1942-1945.
Mr. Peter M. Zollman: 12 frent races frem varicus Florica newsrarers dccumenting the explicsicn of the Srace Shuttle "Challencer."

<<<Page: 336>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART Donors to the Collection
Mr. Emile Deletaille
Evelyn A. J. Hall and John A. Friede
Pamela Gerdau Griffin and Jeffrey T. Griffin Orrel Belle Holcombe in memory of Bryce Holcombe Mr. and Mrs. Bunyon Knight
Dr. and Mrs. Woodrow Knight
Mr. and Mrs. George Lois
Nancy MacDonald
Werner Muensterberger
Robert and Nancy Nooter
Blake Robinson
Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal
Gustave and Franyo Schindler
Donors of Financial Support $100,000 or more
Anonymous The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
$10,000 or more
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc. James Smithson Society
$5,000 or more
King Ranch Family Trust The Rockefeller Foundation Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
$1,000 or more
Robert and Nancy Nooter Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal
Donors to the Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives
Duplicate photographs from Christaud Geary of vintage black and white prints and color slides of fieldwork in Cameroon. Duplicate color slides from Veronique Vanomilier's fieldwork among the Luba people of Zaire Duplicate color slides from Scott Parker of Muslim leaders, textiles, body art and villages from Ghana.
Les)

<<<Page: 337>>>

Donors to the Collection
Anne and Ronald Abramson American Art Forum
Baychar
Albert Best
Fritz Blumenthal
Milton Brown
Dr. and Mrs. Matthew Cohen Lois Connor
David Culverwell
Antonio R. Damasio
Mrs. Dorothy C. Danforth Philip Desind
Maria Drewes
Roberts and Howard Dunitz Richard L. Eagan
Michael J. Ettner
Jack ance Arlene Fogel Lydia and Michael Fried Friends of Adelyn Dohme Breeskin Patricia and Phillip Frost Mrs. Johnson Garrett Wreatham E. Gathright Dalton A. Griffith
Michael B. Gross
J. B. Hanson
Thomas L. Haulk
Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr. Barbara Hirschl
Ron Kent
Val Lewton
Anna Kutha McCosh
Herman and Esta Maril
Charles Millard
Alfred [. Morris,. Jr.
Bruce Nachbar
Francis Naumann
George H. O'Connor
Lillian Dudley Owen
Perkins Center for the Arts
Louis Fs Polk« ors
Mrs. Julie Pratt
James Renwick Alliance
Sara Roby Foundation
Edouard Roditi
Mark Rothko Foundation
Gerd Sander
Larry Schwarm
Eugene Schwartz
Merle Collins Shera and sons, Ned and Tim
Joshua P. Smith
Peter Solow
David Sutherland
Mrs. Gretchen Graver Vanderhoof
Estate of Dorothy Varian
Mrs. Mary Montagu Walke
Emanuel and Linda Wright
Tessim Zorach

<<<Page: 338>>>

Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more
Enid and Crosby Kemper Foundation
The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.
$50,000 or more
Dorothy C. Danforth Fine Art Acquisitions Ltd. United Technologies Corporation
$10,000 or more
American Can Company Foundation John P. Axelrod
Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.
Sacred Circles Fund
Eloise A. Spaeth
The Washington Post Company
$5,000 or more
William R. and Nora H. Lichtenberg Foundation, Inc.
$1,000 or more
Ronald and Anne Abramson
Mr. and Mrs. Donald B. Anderson Norman Bernstein Management, Ralph T. Coe
Formica Corporation
Mrs. Johnson Garrett
$1,000 or more (continued)
David Geffen
Arvin Gottlieb
Hugh Halff, Jr.
Philip and Charlotte Hanes Jaquelin and Caroline Hume Ruth and Jacob Kainen Dorothy and Randolph Kidder Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Koffler Robert and Arlene Kogod Sharon and Kara Lawrence Melvin and Thelma Lenkin Mrss Scott. Libby, Jz.
Mr. and Mrs. C. Thomas May, Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon Barbara Millhouse
Nancy B. Negley
Mr. and Mrs. Meyer Potamkin David and Sally Purvis
John and Sharon Rockefeller Samuel G. Rose
Caroline T. Simmons
Jack Warner
Adam A. Weschler & Son, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Dave Williams
The Women's Committee of the
Smithsonian Institution Virginia Bloedel Wright
$500 or more
J. N. Bartfield Galleries Jean M. Seth

<<<Page: 339>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY Donors to the Collection
Joyce R. Adamson, M.D. in memory of Robert B. Roberts: early keypunch with paper card and wooden stand (1987.0601).
Rita J. Adrosko: carved and painted wooden shepherd possibly from an Eastern European creche (1986.0792); Girl Scout diary (1987.0046).
Richard E. Ahlborn: Jewish New Year's greeting card, printed in Germany 1900-35 (1986.0965); Afro-American coiled basketry cake cover and plate made of palmetto leaf, sweet grass, and pine needles, ca. 1980 (1987.0057).
Air Transport Employees (through James Shields): button, sticker, placard, and a sheet of letterhead all relating to the Air Transport Employees (1986<.035.1))..
Government of Aitutaki, Post Office: 8 stamps, 4 souvenir sheets, and 3 first day covers of Aitutaki (1986.0191); 15 mint stamps, 6 souvenir sheets, and 4 first day covers of Aitutaki (1986.0721).
Elinor W. Allard: Jacquard double-woven coverlet of red wool and white cotton dated 1859 and inscribed "Catherine M. Wilson, Woven at Palmyra, N. Y. by Ira Hadsell" (1986.0880).
David W. Allen: deep-green glass vase with gilt and enamel decorations, probably made in Bohemia about 1890 (1987.0252).
Aluminum Company of America (through L. L. Corbin): COz laser assembly used to drill holes in the rubber nipples of Alcoa's disposible baby formula units, 2 disposable baby formula units, 2 nipples, and a bottle (1980.0009).
American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, Inc. in cooperation with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (through Marilyn B. Jones): 23 industrial hygiene sampling instruments and a respirator (1986.0837).
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (through Philip Sparks): 2 videotape cassettes of the "Carry It On" advertising campaign (1987.0483).
American Museum of Electricity (through Dr. John C. Fisher and Dr. Milan D. Fiske): 97 electric motors, meters, tubes, and miscellaneous artifacts (21979...0'2:99') <
American Physiological Society (through Dr. Martin Frank and Dr. R. R. Sonnenschein): bronze medal commemorating the founders of the American Physiological Society and the Society's centennial in 1986 (1987.0275).
American Postal Workers Union, AFL-CIO (through Douglas C. Holbrook): 17 documents, 2 pens, 2 T-shirts, a cap, canvas bag, label, button, patch, sticker, and a nameplate, all relating to the American Postal Workers Union, AFL-CIO (1986.0255).
American Red Cross, National Headquarters, Treasury Operations (through William M. Rose): 1,000-ruble State Credit note of the U.S.S.R. dated VOLT (198'7;..0557 )..
American Wood Type Manufacturing Company, Inc., American Printing Equipment and Supply Company (through R. Mandel): 3 pattern letter samples for making wood type (1986.0673).
Helen and Polie L. Ames: U.S. wooden button cleaner used by Edwin A. Searson during his service with the U.S. Army, ca. 1898 (1987.0175).
Phyllis Bradford Post Anders: 76 pieces of Spanish-American War memorabilia collected by Charles Johnson Post (1980.0022).

<<<Page: 340>>>

Murphy Anderson: original black and white ink drawing for Superman comic, 1971 (1987.0461).
Anonymous: 2 woman's riding habits, 2 woman's shirts, 2 woman's stocks, a pair of woman's boots, pair of shoe stretchers, and a riding crop, all 1930s (1986.0553).
Government of Antigua, Barbuda Dependency, Barbuda Post Office, Philatelic Bureau: 14 mint stamps and 2 first day covers of Barbuda (1985.0495); 35 Mint postage stamps and 9 first day covers of Barbuda (1985.0660); 14 Mint stamps and 4 first day covers of Barbuda (1986.0300); 48 mint stamps and 12 first day covers of Barbuda (1986.0688).
Branden Arakelian, James Datete, James D. Haskell, and David E. Morse: 3 paper textbook covers made by ninth-grade students at Pentucket Regional Junior High School in West Newbury, Massachusetts, 1985 (1985.0806).
Audrey Z. Archer-Shee: 3 cartes de visite of military subjects and a carte de visit of Mrs. Millard Filmore (1986.0847).
University of Arizona, Arizona Health Sciences Center, University Medical Center (through Alethea 0. Caldwell): Jarvik-7 total artificial heart designed by Dr. Robert Jarvik, made by Symbion of Salt Lake City, Utah, implanted by Dr. Jack G. Copeland into Michael Drummond on August 29, 1985, and replaced in Mr. Drummond by a human heart transplanted on September 7, 1985, and a wooden display base (1987.0474).
Gerald A. Arnold: set of 56 sheets of button covers with the slogan "Bull Moose/This Time" (1986.0807).
Mrs. Rochelle D. Aschheim: game of “Lotto or House" in its original box, made in England in the 1930s (1986.0720); 2 pieces of personal stationery used by Dwight D. Eisenhower in the White House (1986.0760); bell-shaped brass gauge used to measure the size of knitting needles, made by H. Walker of London in the 19th century (1986.0883).
AT&T, Bell Laboratories (through Marcy G. Goldstein): 2 metal translator cards, a translator card template, and a 3A phototransistor (1984.0517); (through B. F. Levine): 52 crystals used by physicist Joseph Giordmaine to test various materials during the development of laser technology, ca. 1960 (1985.0048).
AT&T Teletype Corporation (through R. A. Tarbox): 27 pieces of teletype equipment (1986.0205).
Lt. Col. Joseph R. Austell, USAF (Ret.): locomotive fireman's shovel used by Joseph Hopson Austell on the Southern Railroad's Engine #1401 (1986.0736).
Richard Avedon: 10 photographs signed by photographer Jacques-Henri Lartigue, 5 unsigned Lartigue photographs, and an envelope inscribed "Pour Dick" (1986.1028).
Clarence B. Avery: model of a horsepower machine used to thresh grain, invented by Cyrus Avery and patented in 1860 (1987.0129).
Lawrence Baden: 41 cartes de visite, 25 ambrotypes, 10 cabinet prints, 10 daguerreotypes, and 2 photograph albums (1985.0656).
Bernice Baer: 31 political buttons and a lapel pin (1986.0519).
William F. Baggerman: Dalton "Little Giant" adding machine, 1920s (1986.0977).
Bally-Sente Technologies (through Nolan K. Bushnell): arcade version of PONG video game (1984.0890).
Col. Mary Evelyn Bane, USMC (Ret.): 4 grade insignia, 2 identification tags, a set of medals, and a gold-embroidered scarlet tiara, all worn by Colonel Bane during her career in the U.S. Marine Corps, 1951-77 (1987.0543).
Ethel M. Barach: plaque with a quarter-length portrait of Abraham Lincoln by Victor D. Brenner, 1908 (1986.1008).
Donald 0. Barber: pass from the Ohio National Guard, 7th Regiment, Company K
a >) LSS)

<<<Page: 341>>>

for Corporal Barber and Privates Adams, Sanders, and Anderson, WW I (1986.0917).
Douglas E. Barden: color photograph of the Brooklyn Bridge at night against fireworks celebrating the bridge's centennial, May 1983 (1986.0861).
Ruth McCallum Townsend Barnes: woman's graduation dress worn by Florence McCallum, ca. 1897 (1986.0488).
Russell T. Barnhart: 16-piece rigged traveling roulette wheel and table, manufactured by H. C. Evans & Company of Chicago, 1930 (1984.0540),
Steven Barryte: 4 components of the SWAC computer and an engineering manual for the National Bureau of Standards Western Automatic Computer, 1951 (304214).
Donald P. Basham: 42 pieces of U.S. WW I and WW II insignia, accessories, documents, and memorabilia (1979.0508).
Carter BayS: sewing machine patent model number 159,575 issued to Hirons & Moore, February 9, 1875 (1984.0933).
Bruce S. Bazelon: 60 pieces and sets of inSignia and a metal soap dish (19)7'9". 0'0'3'5')).
Robert P. Beaver: box containing a kit of 107 electrotyping tools used by Mr. Beaver, a master electrotyper (1986.0681).
Noreen A. Beebe: blue "U.S. Mail" flag (1986.0741).
Elizabeth Behr: communion prayer book belonging to Mary Held and a photograph of Mary Held in her First Communion dress holding the prayer book, 1901 (1987.0023).
Thomas W. Bein and Dwight Rogers: machine used to cut hay straw and corn Stalks for animal fodder, ca. 1872 (1987.0536).
Leo Beiser: Holofacet laser scanner (1986.0628).
Wilfred A. Belanger: pattern maker's outside calipers, pattern maker's dividers, and a pair of sugar cutters with spring-action handles (1986.0602).
Edith B. and Frederick R. Bell: 100 cabinet prints, 48 cartes de visite, and 2 albumen portraits (1986.0109).
Bellevue Hospital Center (through Robert B. Milch): light beige wool blanket with peach stripes marked "M.S.T., Bellevue Hospital, Dec. 1934" (1986.0577).
Roy E. Benner: treadle loom with 4 shuttles used for rag-rug weaving and a furniture cover and throw rug woven on the loom (1987.0113).
Ivan B. Berger: set of 9 diskettes, diskette in folder, cassette, set of 4 paper tapes, document index, letter, and a computer printout (1986.0130).
Mrs. John McFarland Bergland and Mrs. Asher Abbott White: hand-painted silk dress worn by Martha Washington, late 18th century (1987.0080).
Albert M. Berkowitz: 7 phonograph records (1986.0597).
Alfred S. Best: Whitney revolover, Bumford flintlock trade gun, U.S. percussion cap target rifle, U.S. Evans 1808 contract musket, and a Union Machine Company double-barrelled shotgun (1983.0698).
Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Bethlehem Mines Corporation, Elkhorn Division: 1,436 glass negatives, 1,381 photographic prints, and 112 film negatives recording the building, operation, and daily lives of workers of the Consolidation Coal Company in Kentucky, 1911-46 (1987.0369).
Frederick V. Betts: Adirondack split-wood backpack basket, ca. 1880 (1987.0025).
Richard L. Biby: 9 PDP-8 computer components, 3 sets of miscellaneous circuit boards, a group of connectors, teletype reader control, paper tape reader with a group of tapes, and 15 books and documents about the PDP-8 and other computers (1983.0473).

<<<Page: 342>>>

Robert L. and Wilma W. Bidwell: 2 mezzotint prints of Abraham Lincoln by John Sartain after E. D. Marchant published in 1864 (1986.1013); 2 engravings of Andrew Johnson, President of the United States (1987.0105).
Steven J. Bilsbury: collection of 43 experimental cartridges, projectiles, and casings, 1950-80 (1986.0569).
Larry Bird: bumper sticker declaring "Russia Sucks" (1986.0114); 2 "Ronbo"” posters depicting Ronald Reagan with a machine gun (1986.0249).
Harry B. Blackstone, Jr.: "floating" electric light bulb made by Thomas Edison in 1929 and a Casa Dega cabinet, both used by The Great Blackstone, Harry B. Blackstone, Sr., in his magic act (1985.0868).
John A. Bland: 5-digit numbering machine in a wooden box marked "National Seal Works” (1981.0688).
Albert and Ruth S. Block: wood and glass display case used in Block's Department Store, 1900-50 (1987.0260).
Rabbi Arthur Bogner and Nathan Bogner: Yahrzeit anniversary memorial tablet in the form of a cabinet with 99 spaces for names of the deceased and 9 glass name plates, used by Ezras Israel Congregation of Washington, D.C. Erom:about. 1925 until :1956° (.1987..0361):.
Daniel J. Boorstin: Tasco pocket adder with instruction leaflet, 1920s (1986.0663).
Richard C. Borges: Sony radio model EFM-117L (1986.0856).
Betty Borgmeyer: apron made from a U.S. Navy enlisted man's neckerchief and decorated with rating badges and a hat band of the USS South Carolina, made by Edward Ames McConnell, WW I (1986.0921).
Peter N. Borsi: 2 wave meters, a transmitting tube, vacuum tube Type VT25, radio transformer, tube socket, induntances, circuit VHF oscillator, and a radio frequency insulator (1985.0697).
Prof. Joseph W. Boudreau: daguerreotype, uranium print, and a Hillotype plate, all made by Professor Boudreau, 1984-85 (1986.0699).
Paddy Bowler and Barry Cottrell: 2 engravings and a sheet of homemade paper (1986.0763).
Clare Shenehon Boyd: 411 ceramic items including English fine earthenwares, American red earthenwares and stonewares, and other miscellaneous wares (1980.0614).
The Bradford Coal Company, Inc. (through Ray S. Walker): commemorative plate, "The Whiskey Rebellion" (1986.0084).
Helene Bress: floor-based single-heddle tape loom with squirrel cage (1984.0165).
Deborah Bretzfelder: poster with slogan "Machinist Union/Say NO to REAGAN'S RAW DEAL" (1985.0949); woman's shoe, 1740-80 (1987.0250).
Donald M. Briskman: 3 Cibachrome prints of the Brooklyn Bridge at dawn, morning, and early afternoon taken by Paula Barr on December 8, 1982 (1985.0784).
Marguerite Wale Broaddus: 2 woman's handkerchiefs, woman's purse, and a woman's bracelet, all 1920s-30s (1987.0027).
Oscar W. Brock, Jr.: St. Augustine pennant and an ashtray from Silver Springs, Florida (1986.0966).
Edward A. and Shirley J. Brom in memory of Helen C. Brom: handwritten letter from Aaron Burr to Judge Easton of St. Louis dated July 30, 1805 and a guest ticket to the Republican National Covention held in St. Louis on June 16,1896 (1987.0013)).
The Brooklyn Museum, Costumes and Textiles (through Elizabeth A. Coleman): pair of woman's off-white linen drawers, 1897, and a black crepe dress, 1938-48 (1986.0998).
Wo Wo wn

<<<Page: 343>>>

Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen, AFL-CIO, CLC (through R. T. Bates and W. D. Best): 3 lapel pins, 2 labels, 2 decals, an envelope, piece of stationery, patch, and a button of the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen (1986.0485).
Carleton W. and Hazel Brown: mirrored tin candle sconce, believed to have been made by a Philadelphia tinsmith for Carpenters' Hall, ca. 1774 (1987.0004).
Pamela Wedd Brown: 3 wood blocks, 2 prints, and a drawing for Night Visitors by Pamela Wedd Brown (1987.0018).
James H. Bruns: 2,406 stamps, 274 stamped envelopes, 149 covers, 77 postal cards, 26 souvenir sheets, 21 blind reading envelopes, 14 miscellaneous philatelic objects, and 6 cut squares (1984.1128); American Numismatic Association medal commemorating the 80th Anniversary Convention in Washington, D.C., 1971 (1985.0741); fashion plate, The Delineator, June 1897 (1986.0281); 5 fashion plates, 1896-98 (1986.0565); metal container with cardboard interior separators used to mail 4 dozen eggs (1986.0674); 2 stereocards depicting the aftermath of the Johnstown Flood in Pennsylvania, 1889 (1986.1041).
Capt. Charles E. Brush, USCG (Ret.): 2 epaulets, a chapeau anda belt all contained in a tin carrying case, used by Capt. Brush with his dress uniform as a Lieutenant in the Coast Guard in 1937 (1987.0456).
Fred K. Bryant: original set of six Burma-Shave advertising signs made by the Burma-Vita Company of Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1960 (1986.0661).
Building and Construction Trades Department, AFL-CIO (through Robert A. Georgine): 4 bumper stickers, 3 posters, 2 pieces of stationery, a button, and a set of voter registration leaflets produced by the Building and Construction Trades Department, AFL-CIO (1986.0242).
George G. Bull: 27 U.S. Army distinctive insignia, WW II (1986.0254).
Beatrice Bulla: set of drawing instruments in case (308964).
Linda C. Burgess: songbook, Centennial Collection of National Songs, 1876 (1987.0438).
Dean E. Burget, Jr., M.D. and Undine Ehrman Burget: Steinway Duo-Art reproducing grand piano with a concertola roll-changing cabinet, custom-made in 1930 for Benjamin Dwight Phillips' home, Elm Court, in Butler, Pennsylvania (1983.0587).
John P. Burnham: 2 commemorative coins from the 350th Anniversary of the founding of Saybrook Colony in Connecticut, 1635-1985 (1986.0620); 75th anniversary medal of the Elizabethan Club of Yale University, 1985 (1987.0149).
Bernard N. Burnstine: man's walking cane, 1880-1920 (1986.0762).
Frances M. Burroughs: 2 woman's paper mini-dresses in their original plastic containers, made by the Promo Dress Company of Beverly Hills, California, 1966-67 (1986.0943).
Timothy C. Butz: 3 "Vietnam Veterans Against the War" membership buttons, 1971-73, a "G.I. Unity” button designed by Mr. Butz in 1971, “Amnesty” button, 1973, and a name badge from the first Winter Soldier Investigation into U.S. War Crimes held in February 1971 (1986.0223).
Gwendolyn D. Cafritz: 1963 Chevrolet Corvette convertible automobile (1986.0784).
The University of California, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (through Glenda Smithies): 5 laser Nova/Novette targets, 2 x-ray targets, a diagnostic laser target, alloy glass bell, laser EOS target LP1351, and a Shiva laser amplifier (1985.0236).
University of California Medical Center, Animal Care Facility (through Joseph

<<<Page: 344>>>

Spinelli, D.V.M.): Coulter Model A counter, ca. 1973 (1987.0248).
Heather H. Campbell: wooden ditty box used by U.S. Navy enlisted man Albert G. Bouton, 1900-9, and 2 naval manuals dated 1902 (1987.0374).
Mrs. Jessie McCartney Campbell for the Children of Samuel McCartney, Sr.: framed photograph of the U.S. Marine Corps honor guard at the funeral of President Warren G. Harding in Washington, D.C. on August 8, 1923 (1987.0167).
Campbell Soup Company (through Steven A. McNeil): Swanson "TV Dinner” aluminum tray, 1955, and 2 videotape cassettes of Swanson commercials, 1955-59 (1987 .0265)).
Bank of Canada (through D. G. M. Bennett): Canadian 5-dollar bank note specimen, 1986 (1986.0621); Department of Banking Operations (through D. G. M. Bennett): 1986 Canadian 2-dollar specimen note (1986.0909).
Leopoldo Cancio: 17 phonograph records (1985.0887); 75 ancient Greek bronze coins, 10 Oriental coins, and a silver Greek stater (1986.0842); 77 ancient Greek bronze coins and a silver Greek hemidrachm, 7 Indian coins, 2 Spanish coins, and a Spanish silver medal commemorating Lenin's birth and the Communist Party in Spain, 1970 (1986.0911).
Peter R. Cannella, Jr.: R.O.T.C. shoulder loop-style Master Sergeant insignia and a steel helment (1987.0241).
Catherine B. Cantrell: 3 badges, 2 plaquettes, 2 pins, and a key, all given to President William Howard Taft between 1906 and 1912 (1986.1030).
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Carey: red, white, and blue banner marked "Clay, Frelingchuysen and Markle" used in the presidential campaign of Henry ClayA(937..0001))..
Col. Amelia J. Carson: jacket and skirt from a U.S. Army woman's black mess uniform, a jacket from a U.S. Army woman's white mess uniform, 1969, and a pair of shoulder straps (1986.0887).
Russell K. Cashdollar: metal-polishing cone with candle shade (1986.0436).
Christine M. Cassidy: red cotton knit gym suit worn by Ms. Cassidy at Wakefield Junior High School, Wakefield, Massachusetts, 1973-75 (1986.0409).
Howard Cayton: razor sharpener, 1921 (1986.0524); Bell gasoline saver in original box (1986.0971).
Penny Persico Cerchio: letter opener with hatchet and profile of George Washington (1986.0404).
Flossie M. Chambers: 2 man's clip-on ties, 1960s (1987.0512).
James A. Chappelear: 8 mint stamped envelopes of the U.S. (1986.0622).
Alfred B. and Maureen P. Charley: uniface bronze medal depicting a nude torso by Mr. Charley, 1986 (1986.0785).
Shirley Cherkasky: 2 delegates' badges to the 1964 Democratic National Convention and an autographed copy of President Johnson's State of the Union address to Congress on January 4, 1965 (1986.0805).
C&P Telephone (through J. M. Nichols): #5 cross-bar switch and a trunk link crossbar switch used in the White House's telephone system from August 1966 to May 1986 (1987.0210).
The University of Chicago, The Enrico Fermi Institute (through Alexander E. Sharp): cloud chamber built by Prof. Robert W. Thompson, a set of 7 film canisters, stereoscopic camera, and a spanner wrench (1984.0984).
Valentine Z. Chilk: carved bone ivory tape measure with blue silk tape (198720119).
Government of the Republic of China, The Philatelic Department, Directorate General of Posts: 120 mint and specimen stamps, 21 first day covers, and 4 souvenir sheets of the Republic of China (1986.0652); (through Charles
1S) Wo

<<<Page: 345>>>

C. Y. Wang): 104 mint stamps, 20 first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of the Republic of China (1986.0118); (through John S. T. Wang): 104 mint and specimen stamps, 26 first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of the Republic of China (1985.0557).
Elisabeth M. Christensen: 535 tools, equipment, and demonstration examples used in the production of silver holloware by Hans Christensen, 1924-83 (1984.0748).
Christie, Manson & Woods, Inc. (through Jonathan Snellenberg): wye level made by Meneely and Oothout in West Troy, New York, 1836-38 (1986.0464).
University of Cincinnati Medical Center, College of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Newborn Division (through Paul H. Perlstein, M.D.): Bloxsom air-lock incubator and respirator and a Kreiselman bassinet resuscitator (1986.0835).
Citizens for Tax Justice (through David M. Legge and David C. Wilhelm): 4 posters showing the inequality of taxes paid by large corporations compared to individuals (1986.0758).
Civil Employees Beneficial Association: National bookkeeping machine on a stand,-‘ca.) 1930 (305774).
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: 3 Islamic coins of the 14th-19th centuries and an Islamic silver medal dated 1891 (1987.0151); brass medalet inscribed "Rough & Ready" on one side and "The Heart of Monterey" on the other (1987.0611).
Elizabeth C. Clark: H & R revolver and 5 accessories (1986.0590).
Barbara J. Coffee: letter, envelope, and membership card from the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island Foundation, Inc. and a bumper sticker and decal with the slogan "I'm Saving the Statue of Liberty," 1986 (1986.0806); Keuffel & Esser N4058W slide rule in case (1987.0184).
Edward W. and Jessie L. Coles: medal commemorating the play "Two Sisters" presented on the centennial of George Washington's Inaugural, 1889 (1987.0408).
Gen. J. Lawton Collins, USA (Ret.) (through Michael J. Rubino): 12 pieces of U.S. Army uniforms and accessories worn by General Collins (1986.0127).
Paul Collins: wooden cut-out peace symbol carried in numerous peace demonstrations (1987.0247).
Colt Industries, Firearms Division (through Ronald E. Stilwell): U.S. M16A2 Colt Industries rifle (1986.0888).
CBS/Broadcast Group, CBS Incorporated (through Donn Weirick): audio control unit, turntable unit, and a turntable control unit used in a television studio control room (1986.0176).
CBS Television Network (through Donn Weirick): VR-1000 Ampex videotape recorder and a program switching digital computer (1983.0309).
Committee to Save Fort McDowell Reservation (through Carolina Butler): T-shirt with slogan "Stop Orme Dam, July 4-10, 1976," used by the Yavapai Indians in efforts to prevent the dam's construction and the inundation of their reservation (1986.0826).
COMSAT Laboratories (through J. V. Evans): 6 satellite components (1981.0655).
Connecticut General Life Insurance (through W. Boyd Hopkins): 10 RCA 501 computer components (1979.0418).
James L. Connor, Jr.: scrapbook containing designs for trade cards and other advertising from the J. A. Lowell Company of Boston, 1876-80 (1986.0251).
Government of the Cook Islands, Ministry of Posts, Philatelic Bureau, Post Office: 21 mint stamps, 5 souvenir sheets, and 3 first day covers of the Cook Islands (1986.0444); 9 mint stamps, 9 souvenir sheets, and 3 first day covers of the Cook Islands (1986.0689).

<<<Page: 346>>>

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper: thermostat made by the Minneapolis Heat Regulator Company with an 8-day clock and timer made by Minneapolis-Honeywell, ca. 1927 (1987.0261); camera lucida for Bausch and Lomb microscope, ca. 1959 (1987 ..0316:7)
Marjorie A. Cope: Northwestern University Centennial bronze medal, 1951 (1987.0610).
Corning Glass Works, Research and Development Division (through Dr. David A. Duke): 6 optical waveguides, 4 drawn preforms, 2 soot preforms, and a fused preform (1986.0134).
Sir Robert C. Cotton: 58 photographs of the C. & O. Canal from Georgetown to Harper's Ferry taken by Sir Robert while serving as Australia's ambassador to the U.S., 1984-85 (1986.0550).
Jonathan P. Cox: 11 sketches and 5 charts drawn by Lotte Guthrie Peet as part of a design class taken at Iowa State College, 1919 (1986.0605).
Joya B. Cox: violin with a false "Hieronimus Amati" label and table ornaments similar to English viols of the 17th and 18th centuries (1986.1022).
Cox-Uphoff International (through Randolph J. Kroenert): 3 tissue expanders used as synthetic bladders (1986.0871).
John F. Craemer: "Novelty" printing press made by Woods & Tuttle of Boston for amateur printers and small businesses, ca. 1876 (1985.0753).
Crime Victims for Court Reform (through Debra L. Goff): 6 documents, 2 Videotape cassettes, a button, and a T-shirt, all advertising the cause of Crime Victims for Court Reform in California in 1986 (1986.0994).
Jeffery R. D. Crockett: blackout window shade kit with instruction booklet, ca. 1942 (1986.0323); Stroh violin made in England between 1904 and 1942 (1986.0858).
Thomas N. Cross, M.D.: 3-piece elkhide hunting suit and a horsehide belt, 1905-10, and a silk and wool Groton School vest hand-knitted in 1910, all worn by Dr. Cross' father, W. Redmond Cross (1986.0938); penknife with hollow sheath to carry a house key, patented May 13, 1924 and used by Dr. Cross' father, W. Redmond Cross (1987.0179).
Government of Cuba, Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Empresa de Correos, Prensa y Filatelia: 113 postage stamps, 44 first day covers, and 10 souvenir sheets of Cuba (1985.0384); 24 mint stamps, 10 first day covers, and a souvenir sheet of Cuba (1985.0795); 32 mint stamps, 27 first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of Cuba (1986.0898).
Margaret Cuninggim: 2 man's Shirts, 2 pairs of woman's shoes, and a woman's wedding dress, 1890-1910 (1986.0558).
Mrs. Jean Moore Curry: handkerchief and shawl with white-on-white embroidery and lace, associated with Sarah Angelica Singleton Van Buren, 1838-40 (1987.0574).
Government of the Republic of Cyprus, Ministry of Communications and Works, Department of Postal Services (through George Antoniou and A. Stamataris): 7 specimen stamps of the Republic of Cyprus (1986.0772); (through Andreas Stamataris): 6 specimen stamps of the Republic of Cyprus (1986.0230).
D. G. Enterprises (through Diane E. Gard): “Rough Rider" toy bear named Theodore Roosevelt made by Diane Gard (1986.0616).
Ralph K. Dakin: polarizing eyepiece by John A. Brashear of Allegheny, Pennsylvania and a Porro prism monocular by J. G. Hofmann of Paris dated 1862 (1986.0465).
Clarence Damon: straight razor in its original case, used by John Paulding, 1775-1825 (1986.0853).
Victor C. Darnell: photograph album of projects by the Berlin Iron Bridge
a oo \o

<<<Page: 347>>>

Company of Berlin, Connecticut, ca. 1890 (1986.0995).
William H. Davenport: British award medal for the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, 1819 (1986.0910). Kenneth H. Davidson and Dennis C. Shumaker: 13 pieces of promotional material
for "Hands Across America," 1986 (1986.0801).
Elizabeth Davis: 9 pieces of U.S. Army man's and woman's uniforms and 4 insignia (1986.0918).
Lawrence W. Davis: 6 inSurance documents, 4 membership cards, 4 amendments, 2 agreements, a letter, and an identification card, all from Mr. Davis' membership in the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, 1940-73 (1986.0647); whisk broom, clothes brush, first aid kit, Pullman Company rate book, employee excursion ticket, railroad pass, time card, and a memo, all used by Mr. Davis while working as a Pullman porter (1986.0811).
John Deere & Company (through Gary J. Justus): battery cover modification kit for a John Deere Model 110 lawn and garden tractor (1987.0412).
Rosemond T. de Hart (through Patricia Flanagan): scrapbook of newspaper clippings, photographs, and other paper memorabilia of Dana Chase de dart including his service as one of the first U.S. Air Mail pilots, 1918-19 (USS 7c OM'5i2:)) 2
Amos S. Deinard, M.D., M.P.H.: 5 schoolroom charts of ancient monuments developed and published in 1912 by Rabbi Samuel Deinard (1986.0738).
David R. Delorier: 2 covers commemorating the inauguration of the U.S. Highway Post Office route from Washington, D.C. to Harrisonburg, Virginia on February 10, 1941 (1987.0371).
Dorothea N. and Robert S. Denison: wardrobe trunk used in the 1920s (1984.0248).
Government of Denmark, Ministry of Public Works, General Directorate of Posts and Telegraphs: 120 mint stamps and 5 souvenir sheets of Denmark and the Faroe Islands (1986.0690); (through Lls Birkedal): 105 mint stamps and 5 souvenir sheets of Denmark and 45 mint stamps of the Faroe Islands (2985..0722) .
H. Martin Deranian, D.D.S.: set of 6 ivory teething aids, 1840s, jar of cherry-flavored toothpaste, ca. 1845, dropper bottle of chloroform, ca. 1870, and a WWI flight surgeon's kit (1986.0930).
Matthew Dickstein: man's shirt, hat, and watch, 1969-76, and a woman's 3-piece suit and sweater, 1975-81 (1986.0510).
Nancy J. Dickstein: 3 necklaces, a bracelet and earring set of liquid silver, and an identification bracelet, 1972-80 (1986.0388).
Ralph B. Diller: electric fence controller invented by Ralph B. Diller, ca. 1937 (1986.0547).
J. Sterling Dimmitt, Ph.D. in memory of Pauline S. Dimmitt, Ph.G.: Tycos sphygmomanometer guage used by Pauline S. Dimmitt, Ph.G., 1920s (1987.0203).
Distillery, Wine and Allied Workers International Union AFL-CIO/CLC (through Elvira L. Catalli and George J. Orlando): lapel pin and a sheet of stationery from the Distillery, Wine and Allied Workers International Union (1986.0263).
D. C. Coalition for the Homeless (through Patricia Makin): 11 pieces of equipment from the dental offices of the late Dr. Burwell and Robert E. Smith, Jr., D.S.S. (1986.0644).
Herbert A. Dolin: 12 silk screen film stencils hand cut by Mr. Dolin while a student at the School of Industrial Arts in New York City, 1948-49, and 2 Silk screen prints (1987.0455).
Paul M. Dougherty: U.S. Army sleeping shirt issued to Vice-Admiral Joseph B.

<<<Page: 348>>>

Logue of the USMC Medical Corps, WW II (1987.0430).
Bruce Douglas: trumpet made by Dominic Calicchio of Los Angeles, California about 1955 with 2 mutes, a mouthpiece, and a period case (1986.0798).
Richard E. Drake: serving tray painted black with gold Hebrew inscriptions and symbols (1987.0530).
James Christopher Draper and John William Christopher Draper: 19 pieces of mathematical instruments and documentation (304826).
Charles Dullea: sworn written application for registration, form no. ES-440B, cae (1965: 2( 198600117)
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (through R. J. Woodward): "Gold Rush,” the human-powered vehicle which attained a speed of 65.48 mph and won the Du Pont Prize for Human-Powered Speed on May 11, 1986 (1987.0231).
Frank J. Dwyer: copy of the Renovo Evening News from Saturday, June 8, 1889, printed on the back of wallpaper (1986.0311).
Mary West Dyer: song sheet, "Tie a Loving Ribbon 'Round the Pentagon," from the Peace Ribbon Rally, August 1985 (1986.0063).
Eagle Arms Corporation (through William Bell): U.S. 9mm submachine gun made by the Eagle Arms Corporation (1985.0770).
Col. John I. H. Eales, USA (Ret.): 52 uniforms, uniform items, and insignia used by Colonel Eales during his U.S. Army service, 1943-53 (1978.2232).
Howard Ebenstein: Keuffel & Esser slide rule in case with instruction manual, ca. 1947 (1987.0085).
Marion L. Edwards: set of Brigadier General's epaulettes in original box and an aiguilette in box, use attributed to Henry A. S. Dearborn of the Massachusetts Militia, ca. 1814 (1987.0429).
Central Bank of Egypt, Head Office, Note Issue Department (through Z. H. Georgy): Egyptian 50-plastres banknote, no. 371 (1986.0503).
Merril Eisenbud, M.D.: radium emanator patented in 1923 by National Radium Products Company of New York, a radiumator, and an empty bottle of Radiathor radioactive water made by Bailey Radium Laboratories of East Orange, New Jersey (1986.0284).
Signy S. S. Ellerton-Jones: telephone answering machine (1987.0176).
Bernice P. Ellis: 21 gelatin prints and 16 negatives of the rescue of Titanic survivors by the Carpathia and the Kodak "Brownie" camera used by Mrs. Ellis, a passenger on the Carpathia, to take the photographs in 1912 (1986.0173).
James William Elyea: officer's epaulette, ca. 1800 (1987.0360).
Clyde R. Englehardt: 1982 U.S. dime without a mint mark (1987.0452).
Guy and Marjorie M. Epley: pink and white case glass bride's bowl with a silver-plated stand, ca. 1894 (1985.0515).
Suzanne Liebers Erickson (through Ralph Erickson): 3 woman's rings, 1930-80 (1986.0528).
Faye Esserman: 2 pairs of clear plastic high-heeled slippers with open backs and'stoes, 1950's 1(298770513).
Dan Ettema and Elizabeth King-Ettema: hinged sign with 2 inscriptions, "For Colored Passengers" and "For White Passengers" (1987.0072).
Government of the Faroe Islands, Postverk Foroya: 50 mint stamps and 4 first day covers of the Faroe Islands (1985.0700); The Faroese Postal Service, Philatelic Office: 45 mint stamps and 3 first day covers of the Faroe Islands (1986.0623); (through B. Jacobsen): 35 mint stamps, 3 first day covers, and a souvenir sheet of the Faroe Islands (1987.0199).
Estate of Cleopatra Kavadias Faulkner (through Mary H. Driscoll): 6 linen damask dinner napkins with the heraldic insignia of Czar Nicholas II of Russia and 6 linen damask tea napkins with the monogram insignia of

<<<Page: 349>>>

Alexander III of Russia (1986.0422).
Federation of Westinghouse Independent Salaried Unions (through Ira J. Matthews): blank sheet of stationery of the Federation of Westinghouse Independent Salaried Unions (1986.0267).
Marjorie Fedorski: 18 U.S. Navy uniform items and personal memorabilia from the WW I service of Mrs. Fedorski's father, Joseph Andrysco, and a WW II Air Raid Warden's banner used by Mr. Andrysco (1987.0007).
J. Walter Feigenbaum: 28,569 foreign stamps in sheets and panes (1984.0421).
Aline M. Feldman: 3 woodcut prints and a wood block of October Fields by Aline Feldman (1987.0019).
Joseph E. Fennimore: U.S. 48-star flag made from a German WW II-period flag and used by the 4th Division, 8th Regiment of the Infantry as their command post flag (1986.0895).
Fenton Communications, Inc. (through Maria Rodale): videotape cassette of "Witness for Peace" commercial critical of aid to the Nicaraguan Contras and an audiotape cassette of "SANE" commercial critical of nuclear weapons tests (1986.0603).
Harry W. Ferguson, Jr.: U.S. check drawn on the First National Bank of Washington dated May 19,1865 (1987.0376).
John R. Ferguson: political campaign flyer for Bill Bobo, "Go-Go with Bobo," 1986 (L986.0717).
Ferranti Limited (through S. Z. deFerranti and D. J. Stephenson): Williams
tube memory component of a Ferranti Mark I computer, late 1940s (309902).
Virginia B. Fico: 14 certificates, licenses, contracts, letters, deeds, and sheet music of the late 19th and early 20th centuries (1987.0239).
Elaine L. and Jonathan Fiencke: 2 bronze medals commemorating the 350th anniversary of the State of Connecticut and the 200th anniversary of the Town of Hampton with the Hampton Bicentennial portion of the coins designed by Mr. Fiencke when 11 years old, 1986 (1986.0786).
Hilda and Samuel S. Fink: photoetched print of Doors II by Mary Trevor (1986.1016).
Bernard S. Finn: Merrow sewing machine, 1920-30 (1984.1056); box of mercerized shoelaces (1986.0748).
Carol S. FitzSimonds: aquatinted plate for Night Magic by Carol S. FitzSimonds (2987501020).
555th Parachute Infantry Association, Washington Metro Chapter (through James C. Queen): shoulder sleeve insignia from the 555th Parachute Infantry (198'6).;0067 )i~
Evangeline M. Flett and Jo M. Steetle: wooden security box made in the mid-18th century and brought to America about 1770 by John Mechling of Mechlingburg, Germany (1986.0214).
Janice L. Flug in memory of William R. LeFevre: 6 unused cachets, 3 rubber handstamps, 2 cancelled covers, a steel handstamp, and a steel cachet stamp all used on the last run of the Highway Post Office on June 30, 1974, and 6 cancelled covers from the last run of the Railroad Post Office on June 30, 1977 (1987.0237).
Bert L. Fogel: 38 trading cards, 27 brochures, and 3 postcards from the 1933 World's Fair in Chicago and a pass to the fair dated October 9, 1933 (1982.0363).
Fonar Corporation (through Raymond V. Damadian, M.D.): a nuclear magnetic resonance whole-body scanner, the "Indomitable," designed by Dr. Damadian and built in 1977 (1986.0575).
Robert G. Fones: U.S. Navy enlisted man's dress blue flat hat worn by Mr. Fones aboard the USS Lexington, 1931 (1987.0058).

<<<Page: 350>>>

Shelly Jayne Foote: 2 woman's leotards and 2 pairs of woman's tights used in aerobic dance classes, 1976-85 (1986.0592); 3 pieces of beige Samsonite luggage, 1960, a Dr. Scholl's foot massager used as a darning egg, 1940-50, and a woman's fur stole, 1950-60 (1986.0609).
George E. Foreman: red velvet boxing trunks worn by George Foreman during his championship fight against Ken Norton in Caracas, Venezuela on March 26, 1974 (1985.0040).
Joel J. and Linda K. Forman: bronze lepton of Judea, A.D. 6-9 , and a copper stater of Kashmir, A.D. 950-8 (1986.0891).
Dr. Frederick Forscher: scrapbook of newspaper clippings collected by Dr. Forscher, "NUMEC, the first ten years," 1957-71 (1982.0619).
Howard S. Foust: leather mail bag made by Bona Allen, Inc. in 1970 (1987.0433).
Bob Fratis: 10 buttons from the Republican National Convention in 1964 (1987.0459).
Friday Canning Corporation (through F. C. Friday): pea can filler used from the 1920s to 1951 (1987.0411).
Paul E. Fry: 3 WW II posters dealing with labor and the war effort and war bonds (1987.0549).
Robert Fudim and Barbara Jarocki: 7 decks of playing cards, fortune telling Cards,. and Tarot ‘cards '(1987.0197).
Betty Furness: Red polyester double-knit dress by designer Norman Norell worn by Ms. Furness at the press conference announcing her appointment as President Johnson's Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs on March 4, 1967. (1986.0982).
David L. Ganz: 2 process sets showing the stages in striking commemorative presidential inaugural medals in 1981 and 1985 by Medallic Art Company (1986.1043).
Irene Gardner: 11 pieces of uniform clothing, a badge, purse, Colt .38 revolver, handcuffs, and a wallet with identification used by Mrs. Gardner as a member of the Los Angeles Police Department in 1949 (2987.0258)):.
Dr. Tom S. Garrison: "“Ivrene"™ translucent white glass bowl with an iridescent surface made by Frederick Carder for the Steuben Glass Company of Corning, New York, ca. 1932 (1987.0270).
General Electric Company, Corporate Research and Development (through Laddie L. Stahl): computerized x-ray tomography whole-body scanner gantry with 2 tables, 1970s (1986.0730).
General Motors Corporation, Delco Electronics Division (through Dr. E. D. Wilmoth): MAGIC I computer developed for spaceborne guidance systems and a pamphlet about the computer, ca. 1961 (305776).
Georgetown University Medical Center, Division of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery (through Sharon Romm, M.D.): 21 instruments used in plastic surgery on the face, late 20th century (1986.0418).
Estate of Rudi Gernreich (through Dr. Oreste F. Pucciani): 61 pieces of man's, woman's, and unisex clothing designed by Rudi Gernreich between 1956 and 1985 and 7 sketches done by Mr. Gernreich in 1970 (1986.0013).
Phillip T. Gesell: square grand pianoforte made by Knabe & Sons of Baltimore, Maryland, ca. 1860 (1985.0799).
Florence F. Giddings and Helen F. Johnson: brass replica of Admiral Schley's belt buckle presented to David H. Fenton about 1900 (1986.0823).
Wilbur J. Giesler: adjustable wooden ironing board made by Mr. Giesler's grandfather and a wooden laundry paddle (1986.0821).
Constance A. and Gerard F. Gilbert: pair of white silk wedding shoes embroidered with flowers and worn by Mercy Lavinia Warren Bumpus when she

<<<Page: 351>>>

married "General Tom Thumb," Charles Sherwood Stratton, on February 10, 1863 (1987.0177).
Lorraine Gillespie: Dizzy Gillespie's King "Silver Flair" custom-made trumpet with angled bell, made by N. H. White of Eastlake, Ohio and its original case (1986.0003).
C. Gillilland: set of Cuisenaire rods and cubes used in teaching mathematics and 6 instruction books, 1960s (1987.0542).
C. Gillilland and L. W. Vosloh: 3 U.S. satirical political medals issued by Robert Julian, 1977-80 (1986.1012).
Girl Scouts of the United States of America (through Gordon V. MacKay): 8 posters, 3 sets of badges, a camp uniform of 1919, Junior uniform of the 1970s, Brownie uniform and Daisy uniform of 1986, and a set of postcards (1986.0906).
Vincent E. Giuliano: digital magnetic core shift register used in the Harvard Mark IV computer, built 1951-52 (1987.0041).
Morris Glachman: Voigtlander Prominent camera with F1.5 lens, 100mm telephoto lens, 35mm wide-angle lens, accessory viewfinder, sunshade/filter kit, and close-up lens/rangefinder attachment (1986.0904).
Robert D. Gleichenhaus: collection of 1,868 postage stamps, 34 covers, and 6 souvenir sheets of Switzerland, 1850-1979 (1986.0119).
Dale Gnage: automobile model which won the First National Scholarship Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, 1966 (1987.0253).
Roger Goiran: collection of 30 uniforms, insignia, and accouterments used by General Francois Goiran who served in the French Army from 1869 to 1914 (1982.0641).
Mrs. Gardner C. Goldthwaite: black linen girl's gym suit with a pair of black leather slippers worn by Mrs. Goldthwaite while attending Alhambra City High School in 1918 and a baseball player-shaped bottle opener (2987 ..0353).
Estate of Lillian S. Goodall (through Russell N. Shewmaker): 19 pieces of television and radio equipment collected by Alfred B. Goodall (1986.0178).
Nancy Gooding: man-in-service pin, bronze coat button, and a photo-holder collar insignia, WW I (1986.0875).
Leonard H. Gordy: rubber railroad car spring, ca. 1865 (1987.0378).
Constance R. Grace: print and 6 pieces of preliminary artwork of Return to Somerset by Constance R. Grace (1987.0017).
Elizabeth F. and Thomas B. Grave: cotton applique and pieced-work quilt signed and dated in 1843 by members of the Society of Friends of Philadelphia and New Jersey for Hanna Nicholson Grave (1986.0657).
Arlene M. Gray: 7 uniform items worn by Ms. Gray while serving as a radioman, 3rd class in the U.S. Navy, 1974-77 (1987.0457).
James W. Green: automobile model which won the Third National Scholarship Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, 1961 (1987.0084).
John L. Green: 2 pairs of boxing gloves and a leather pouch (1986.0319).
Dr. Mary Eloise Green and Earle M. and Jewell S. Green: 15 board games, card games, and puzzles used by the Green family from the late 1890s to the 1950s (1986.0814).
William F. Green: 85 phonograph records (1986.0253).
R. C. Gregg: Confederate ribbon with a 3-stripe, 8-star flag and the words "The South Forever/Jeff. Davis, Pres./A.H. Stephens, Vice President," 1860s (1987.0550); advertising note from Georgia printed on the back of an 1864 Confederate States of America 10-dollar note anda 2-dollar script note from the City of Chattanooga, Tennessee, 1870s (1987.0558).

<<<Page: 352>>>

Robert Grodanz: child's 3-piece silverplate flatware set and a "Tiddledy Winks" game in its original box, 1950s (1987.0492).
Dr. Jonathan Grossman: silver presentation cup given to William B. Wilson, first Secretary of Labor, by the Maritime Organizations of the Pacific Coase. dnwl9132 (1987 20052).
Aileen D. Gruendel in the name of Emma and Eva Dopp: 2 cabinet prints, one of Rudolph Eickenmeyer, Sr. and the other of Rudolph Eickenmeyer, Jr., taken by H. S. Wyer of Yonkers, New York (1986.0770).
Yao Gu-Shun: 52 mint stamps, 2 souvenir sheets and 2 souvenir folders of the People's Republic of China (1987.0417).
Frank W. Gyori, Jr.: phonograph recording of The Broadway Album by Barbra Streisand (1986.0514).
McVander Haef: woman's dress bodice, 1875-85 (1986.0557).
David H. and Shirley I. Hamley and their children Michael A. and Scott D. Hamley: industrial locomotive made by the Plymouth Locomotive Works about 1919 and equipped with a gasoline engine, dump car made by the Watt Car & Wheel Company about 1953, and 2 sections of narrow gauge rail (1986.0274).
Hammond Incorporated (through Caleb D. Hammond and Dean Hammond): set of 3 gores for a 16-inch terrestrial globe made by C. S. Hammond & Co. in the mid-1930s (1987.0154).
Robert E. Hanley: 2 leather mailbags, one marked "Bucheimer 1965" and the other "Bona Allen Inc 1970" (1987.0173).
Emma Miles Hanna and Frank A. Miles: woman's second day dress, 1854 (1986.0564).
Rita Hansen: English violette of the Prague School, ca. 1735, later reconstructed as a viola (1987.0028).
Scott H. Hanville, Jr. in memory of his grandfather William Goodhue: 15 stampless covers and a page of a letter, all 19th century (1986.0560).
F. C. Harding: Fi-Cord International tape recorder made in Switzerland, 1964 (1986.0407).
Robert S. Harding: RCA Victor television receiver, ca. 1960 (1986.0244).
Capt. and Mrs. David Louis Harlow: red brocade furnishing fabric (1980.0369).
Larry Harmon: 9-piece "Bozo the Clown" suit worn by Mr. Harmon (1984.0788).
Edward A. Harms: medal commemorating Salmon P. Chase and the Chase National Bank "Moneys of the World" exhibit and a photograph of Mr. Harms and the Chase National Bank Planning Department, 1939 (1986.0900).
The Harriman Jones Medical Clinic (through G. Borowick): 34 vials of surgical sutures, ca. 1940 (1984.0853).
Michael R. Harris: 2 moving picture posters from before 1920 (1987.0200); jar of "Superman Krunchy" peanut butter (1987.0380).
N. Neil Harris: bronze medal commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Purdue University School of Veterinary Medicine, 1959-84 (1987.0150).
Harvard University, Department of Physics, Lyman Laboratory of Physics (through Prof. Norman F. Ramsey): 2 radio-frequency oscillatory field coil assemblies built by Professor Ramsey about 1950 and his original hydrogen maser laboratory apparatus invented in 1960 (1980.0594).
William T. Hassett, Jr.: brass maker's plate for "Peter Smith's Patent Press Number 445" made by Robert Hoe Company of New York (1986.0877).
Hattori Corporation of America, Consumer Electronics Division (through Jerry Astor): Seiko TFT Pocket Color TV and Seiko Datagraph System with 7 components (1984.0944).
Dr. Lloyd E. and Vivian S. Hawes: 51 pieces of English ceramics, 17th and 18th centuries, 2 pieces of French ceramics, 18th century, and a plaster copy of the Portland Vase made in England (1987.0005).
Ss) as WN

<<<Page: 353>>>

Mrs. Corinne Heard in honor of her grandson, Leonard A. J. Richard, Jr.: phonograph record of "America, Our Home," written by Corinne Heard and performed by Liberace (1986.0803).
Daniel A. Hearlihy: 6 instruction books and pamphlets, 2 bow compasses, 2 sets of drawing instruments, a set of architect's rules, and a pusher pencil (1987.0589).
Col. Julian G. Hearne, Jr. USA (Ret.): Japanese officer's sword with scabbard and sword knot surrendered by Maj. Yoshihiki Noda to Colonel Hearne on Aka Shima Island on August 22, 1945, surrender document signed by Major Noda, and a carbon copy of a surrender document signed on August 23, 1945 (1981.0837).
Raymond J. Hebert: 15 U.S. Army insignia and shoulder boards, Vietnam War era, and 14 modern Civil Air Patrol insignia (1986.0964).
Meryem S. and Raymond J. Hebert: 15 U.S. and foreign bank notes (1985.0914); brown silk string with 86 multi-colored West African "Aggry" trade beads and a wooden bead (1986.0804); 28 U.S. and foreign tokens and medals (1986.0841); 647 U.S. and foreign Roman Catholic medals, 16th-20th centuries (1986.0984); 95 coins, medals, and tokens of India and the Middle East, 171 B.C. to the 20th century (1986.1009); 11 ancient Greek bronze coins of Panticapeum on the Black Sea, 350 to 50 B.C. (1986.1010); 58 U.S. medals and tokens, 30 foreign medals, weights, and tokens, and 8 U.S. stock certificates, 19th and 20th centuries (1986.1011); 96 U.S. and foreign medallic pins and badges, 1950-70 (1986.1045).
Edward L. Heller: U.S.-manufactured Alpaca-lined jacket for extreme cold weather, issued on lend-lease to the Russian Army in WW II (1987.0015).
Ralph R. Hellerich: flat-bed cylinder hand press made by Ernest Vaughan of Paris and used to emboss braille letters in paper and 4 boxes of braille type made by Allain Guillaume & Cie, ca. 1900 (1985.0476).
Rochambeau A. Herosian: industrial whole-face gas mask made by the Mine Safety Appliance Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, ca. 1960 (1985.0912).
Hewlett-Packard Company (through Ernest S. Drake): cesium beam tube and a cesium beam tube cut away to show internal structure (1981.0506); (through Thomas E. Osborne): "Green Machine" calculator prototype with logic unit developed by Thomas E. Osborne, prototype of the Hewlett-Packard 9100A calculator, and 11 documents, 1964-68 (1978.0311); (through Dr. Emery H. Rogers): Hewlett-Packard Model 5061A cesium beam frequency standard digital clock (1980.0704).
Father Francis J. Heyden: aircraft navigational computing device in a case (1987.0109).
William J. Hickman: bronze reproduction of "The Lone Sailor" statue at the U.S. Navy Memorial in Washington, D.C., 1987 (1987.0283).
Harry A. Hilbert: covered oak and cane pyriform basket made by Mr. Hilbert in the 19th-century Nantucket tradition, 1986 (1987.0229).
Prof. Roger H. Hildebrand: 2 liquid hydrogen bubble chambers (1980.0357).
John W. Hiller: leaflet encouraging people to register and vote and a poster of the F.B.I.'s 10 most wanted men for offenses against women (1986.0782).
Bill Hoak in memory of Daniel Ray Hoak: 4 autographed lithographs, 2 baseballs, 2 drinking glasses, a ceramic mug, and a program, all souvenirs of baseball games, 1921-71 (1986.0702).
Viola F. Hoes for the family of Valentine Doub Clark: sheet music titled "General Lukbon, National Hymn of the Visayans," Philippine rope and reed shoes, Philippine card game and a ribbon arm band, all of the Spanish-American War period, and an issue of the San Francisco Bulletin, Philippine Island Edition, dated March 9, 1902 (1977.0193).

<<<Page: 354>>>

Henriette Mednick Hoffman: 5 copies of The National Aegis published in 1802, a copy of The Western Luminary dated May 13, 1829, and a copy of Universal Yankee Nation dated February 6, 1841 (1986.0850).
John N. Hoffman (through the Rev. James B. Parsons): 1,126 charity seals (1986.0459).
George A. Hormel & Company (through V. Allen Krejci): 2 videotape cassettes of a press conference and a question-and-answer program held during a labor dispute, January 24, 1985 (1986.0643).
Harold Horowitz: wood engraved print, Bestiarium Juvenile, by Fritz Eichenberg, 1965 (1986.0927).
Lawrence S. House: upper frame from a patent model of a carriage frame for a locomotive patented on February 10, 1843 by Septimus Norris and William Knight (1987.0469).
Margaret S. Howard: 2 progressive trial strikes for a medal to commemorate Lt. Col. John E. Howard and his courage at the Battle of Cowpens on January Li BB I (-1L98i6:.. 0833)"
Richard H. Howland: handwritten receipt for a cashmere shawl dated December 17, 1867 (1986.0884).
William J. Hubbard: Hellige comparator and a Wallace and Tierman comparator used to analyze water (1986.0765).
Bernard J. Hubenet: set of 3 iron grape shot, set of 2 wrought iron nails, nail in a cleat, langrage fragment, and a lead shot, all collected from the wreck of the Royal Savage off Valcour Island in 1934 (1982.0263).
Hughes Aircraft Company, Electro-Optical & Data Systems Group (through D. A. Peat): laser target designator (1987.0026).
Ruth Mildred Hunter: 53 pieces of sheet music and 3 issues of Popular Song magazine (1986.0021).
James Lyle Hurd: Schwinn Panther girl's bicycle, 1953 (1986.1021).
Capt. M. E. Husted, Jr., USN, (Ret.): 9 uniform items worn through the U.S. Naval career of Captain Husted, 1956-86 (1987.0061).
James S. Hutchins: Japanese Army officer's field cap, WW II (1986.0967).
Prof. G. Evelyn Hutchinson: 424 stamps, 120 covers, 4 stamped envelopes, 2 aerogrammes, 2 postal order sheets, a postal card, parcel receipt, sample stamp card, miniature sheet, souvenir sheet, proof, and a broadside, all used by independent carriers during the 1971 postal strike in England (1985.0045).
Clare Cardozo Imburg: 28 needle working tools of the 19th century and a patterned silk shawl worn by Mrs. Imburg's grandmother, Miriam Peixotto Davis of New York City, in the early 20th century (1986.0696).
Rosalind B. Immerman: 9 photographs, 8 housedresses, 2 bills of sale, a blouse, and an advertising pencil, which all document the clothing manufacturer Manhatten Wrapper Company, 1902-19 (1986.0187); 3 payroll ledgers of the Manhattan Wrapper Company, 1909-28, and a photograph of the factory interior, ca. 1910 (1986.0715).
Inlandboatmen's Union of the Pacific, Marine Division-International Longshoremen's & Warehousemen's Union (through Lawrence J. Miner): 3 photographs, a cap, T-shirt, button, tie clip, pin, newspaper, sheet of Stationery, and an envelope, all relating to the Inlandboatmen's Union of the Pacific (1986.0342).
Adm. W. D. Innis, USN (Ret.): brown leather U.S. Naval Aviator's transport coat used at cold altitudes by Admiral Innis during WW II (1986.0824).
Intel Corporation (through A. S. Grove): 12 microelectronic devices (1984.0124).
International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers

<<<Page: 355>>>

(through James E. Cole, Juel D. Drake, and Jake West): 28 items including decals, stationery, lapel buttons, buttons, belt buckles, bumper stickers, a sticker, lapel pin, tie bar and cufflinks set, and a Sheet of letterhead, all relating to the International Association of Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron Workers (1986.0357).
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Office of the International President (through Janice Kuch): 3 stickers and a poster of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (1986.0955).
International Business Machines Corporation (through David E. Benevides): holographic disc from an IBM point-of-sale scanner (1985.0103); (through Doug E. Knight): IBM 650 drum cross-section and a CPC plugboard (1986.0779).
International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union (through Jay Mazur): 16 badges, 13 posters, 7 advertisements, 6 buttons, 3 banners, 2 phonograph records, 2 dues books, 2 hats, a piece of sheet music, booklet, pin, and a medal of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union (1986.0710).
International Union of the Journeymen Horseshoers of the United States and Canada, AFL-CIO (through Nick Marinelli): 2 stickers with the logo of the International Union of the Journeymen Horseshoers of the U.S. and Canada (1986.0346).
International Union of Life Insurance Agents (through Robert C. Schuetz): 2 newsletters, a piece of stationery, and a card of the International Union of Life Insurance Agents (1986.0364).
Government of the State of Israel, Ministry of Communications, Philatelic Services: 7 first day covers of Israel (1985.0649); 11 first day covers of Israel (1986.0089); 3 first day covers of Israel (1986.1048); 10 first day covers of Israel (1987.0171).
Dorothy P. Jacobs: 4 video posters (1987.0128).
Walter H. Jacobs, D.D.S.: 2 bronzed plaster casts of the right fists of Joe Louis and Jack Dempsey (1987.0159).
Jacques Noel Jacobsen, Jr.: 4 insignia of the Civilian Conservation Corps, 1930s (1986.0100).
Leona C. James (through Linda C. Woodcock): refined earthenware pitcher with "silver luster" finish, ca. 1825 (1986.0471).
Barbara Suit Janssen: 2 membership cards, a sash with badges and pins, and a knife, all used by Mrs. Janssen as a Girl Scout, 1958-68 (1987.0050).
The Bank of Japan, Cash Department (through Kazuhiho Sugimoto and Kozo Tsukagoshi): 2 silver 10,000-yen coins and 2 copper-nickel 500-yen coins commemorating the 60th anniversary of Emperor Hirohito's accession to the throne in 1926 (1986.1020).
Barbara W. Jarrell: cheese-ball holder made by the Wilcox Silver Plate Co., late 19th century (1987.0140).
Allen W. and Gwendolyn M. Jay: Monroe CSAE-10 electric calculating machine with cord (1987.0182).
Hilda L. Jay: woman's white fabric fan, 1880-1900, and a green chiffon handkerchief with a printed design, 1920-30 (1987.0511).
Allen H. Johness, Jr.: U.S. Sharps "John Brown" sporting rifle (1982.0025); U.S. revolver made by the Massachusetts Arms Company (1982.0723).
Lester D. Johnson, M.D.: 8 contraceptive devices, 4 cups and a pen used to advertise contraceptive devices, 2 buttons of the Virginia Alliance for the Eradication of Venereal Disease, and a gestation calculator (1'982,.0'3;7.0)):.
Marilyn A. Johnson: 2 tickets designating Ms. Johnson's place in line at

<<<Page: 356>>>

Dupont Circle in Washington, D.C. and a "Staff" hat and armband, all from the "Hands Across America" event held May 25, 1986 (1986.0618).
Richard J. Johnson: automobile model which won the National Styling Scholarship Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, 1962 (1987.0254).
Jeffrey Jonas: 2 IBM printer carriage control tape punches and 2 groups of punched tapes (1986.0751).
Brigitte M. Joncas in memory of Carlo Alexander Brioschi and Roland A. Joncas: Austrian uniform with a coat, helmet, shoulder belt, sash, and a uniform box, 14 Austrian medals, 2 Austrian swords with scabbards, knots, and a sling, an identification tag, and a Hungarian medal, all belonging to Carlo Alexander Brioschi, WW I (1986.0373).
Mrs. Allen A. Jones (through Mr. and Mrs. John Coffland): set of drawing instruments in case used by Allen A. Jones as a civil engineer (305772).
Carroll R. Jones: woman's jacket, coat, 2-piece dress, and a bag, and a man's bearskin coat, late 19th-early 20th century (1986.0589).
Daisy Barnwell Jones: 3-piece wool suit hand-knitted by Mrs. Jones, dickey, and a pair of shoes, all worn by Mrs. Jones at her wedding on June 12, 1935 (1986.0766).
Norah E. Jones: leather pipe case, ca. 1895 (1987.0178).
Roger D. Jones: booklet titled Instructions for Conduct of Carriers and Delivery of Mail Matter, dated June 1945 (1986.0501).
Suzanne R. Jones and Sharon R. Pagendarm: medal with ribbon and pendant given to the last Commander-in-Chief of the Grand Army of the Republic, Theodore A. Penland, during the last encampment of the G.A.R. at Indianapolis, Indiana in 1949 (1987.0343).
R. W. Julian: 5 souvenir tokens from the Ironhorse Festivals in Cass County, Indiana, 1982-86, and a satirical "Justice" medal, 1981 (1986.0655).
K M Inc., Call Carl (through Joanna L. Creeger): Pitney Bowes postage meter mailing machine (1986.0216).
Carolyn S. & Col. H. Carl Kait: handwoven overshot coverlet of the 1840s (1986.0162); 14 pressed glass items in the "Frosted Ribbon" pattern, probably made by Bakewell, Pears & Co. of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1870s (1986.0165).
Rowland Kanner: automobile model which won the National Styling Scholarship Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, 1964 (1987.0363).
Alvin R. and Marjorie Sered Kantor: 20 post office forms dated 1836 to 1849 and 23 quarterly account reports for the 1840s (1986.0897); lithograph portrait of William Goddard, early organizer of the U.S. postal system (1986.0913).
Edward K. Kaprelian: 8 continuous-tone electrophotographs and a silver gelatin print made by the Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories on January 8, 1951, showing an electrograph camera (1986.0905).
Kasto-Racine, Inc. (through Hans Jehle): salesman's display book of 51 Photographs of power hacksaws made by the Racine Tool and Machine Company of Racine, Wisconsin, ca. 1926 (1987.0366).
Jane Kayser-Simpson, Roger Simpson, and Jeff Smith: 4 rubber stamps, "REAGAN/BUSH '84," sold at the 1984 Republican National Convention (1984.1113).
Edward V. Keegan and Helene A. Larkin: 2 woman's dresses and a woman's 2-piece suit, 1897-1912.(1986.0555)..
Mrs. Kathleen Keller: glove stretcher with silver handles in its original box, made in Birmingham, England in 1908 (1986.0852).
George H. Kelley: 7 surgical instruments and a case (1985.0581).

<<<Page: 357>>>

Dorothy B. Kennedy: 2 hat boxes, 1928 and 1940s (1987.0212).
Roger G. Kennedy: pair of stained glass windows designed by George Grant Elmslie, ca. 1920 (1985.0328).
Kenyon College, Department of Physics (through Thomas B. Greenslade, Jr.): cardboard wheei calculator used to determine the formulae for chemical compounds, made by the Chemical Rubber Company of Cleveland, Ohio, ca. 1933 (1986.0776); color absorption chart by Bausch & Lomb, 1916 (1987.0093).
Boonsong Keomanywong: house model of bamboo, palm, and wood made by Mr. Keomanywong as representative of his native Kmhmu culture (1985.0573).
Dr. Edward Keonjian: portable solar-powered radio transmitter, 1954 (1986.0377); 88 microelectronic transistors, integrated circuit packages, and resistors, some invented by Dr. Keonjian, 1959-62 (1986.0417).
Loretta G. and Steven M. Kepler in honor of Carmelo Guglielmino and Reginald H. Metcalf, Jr.: 21-star U.S. national flag, 1819-20 (1987.0106).
William E. Kerber: 24 U.S. Army insignia and 19 U.S. Army Aviation uniform items worn by Captain Kerber, ca. 1970 (1986.0306).
James W. Kerr: forged postage stamp of the Gold Coast (1986.1042).
Keuffel & Esser Company (through Marsh W. Bull): logarithmic Analon slide rule and instruction manual (304347).
Elizabeth D. Keyes: scarlet net military sash, artillery hat cord, and a medal of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the U.S.(308523).
Boonthong Khansouvong: 6 bamboo objects used to prepare and serve food, 2 musical instruments, and a ritual staff, all Kmhmu-American items made and used by Mr. Khansouvong (1985.0574).
Leck Khoonsirivong: set of equipment for making fish nets and a flute, all Kmhmu-American items made and used by Mr. Khoonsirivong (1985.0571).
Claudia Brush Kidwell: a girl's 6-piece Hawaiian costume and a girl's Red Cross nurse's apron, 1974 (1987.0043); board game, "What Shall I Wear?," by Selchow & Righter Company, 1969 (1987.0048).
Mrs. Howard Kinzer: boy's clothing including 2 pairs of gloves, 2 pairs of shoes, and 2 2-piece suits, and a picture of Howard Kinzer wearing one of the suits, all 1908-16 (1986.0479).
Mavis L. Kislingbury: woman's knickers, gaiters, gloves, stockings, and shoes, late 19th to early 20th century (1986.0611).
Margaret B. Klapthor: WW II Army Air Force Observer armband and pin (1986.0594).
Ben Kleinerman: 3 Bowling Swing motion sensors, a Steelman transitape recorder, Cinesone motion picture audio converter, Hughes slow-scan television, and a cardiac function indicator, all invented and patented by Mr. Kleinerman, 1950s-60s (1986.0724).
H. Douglas Kline: U.S. leather-laced, legging-topped boots, WW II (1986.0098).
Robert Lee Klinger: bicycle bell (1986.0389).
Wm. B. Knapp: 2 women's baseball cards of Maud Nelson and the Western Bloomer Girls (1986.0020).
Judith L. and Wayne R. Knight: upright parlor reed organ made by Mason & Hamlin, 1895-1900 (1985.0583).
Edith Kramer: ink drawing titled "Noise in the Machine Shop" done by Ms. Kramer while working as a machinist at Sossner Steel Stamp Company during WW II (1987.0190).
Carol L. Kregloh: pair of woman's drawers, 1880-1920, woman's undershirt, 1890-1920, and 2 baby's bibs, 1986 (1986.0740).
Alice Lilly Krueger in memory of Prof. Hugo Burghauser: English horn made by Otto Moennig with original case, bocal, and reed, late 19th century

<<<Page: 358>>>

(1986.0581); oboe d'amour made by Adler & Co., early 20th century (1987.0054).
Philip Krupen: 5 slide rules, a Wood-Regan lettering set, Dietzgen French curve set, Sprague template for logic circuits, and 3 instruction pamphlets (1986.0790).
Michael Krzyzanowski: translucent blue "Tupperware" pitcher with lid, ca. 1954 (1987.0180).
Robert P. Kunst: bumper sticker, handout, newspaper article, biographical sketch, letter and a press release documenting Mr. Kunst's campaign for the U.S. Senate in 1986 (1986.0923); 11 bumper stickers with political messages (1987.0555).
Herbert M. Kurima: duffle bag and a piece of packing canvas used to move to an assembly center, a night stand made at the Fresno Assembly Center, and a berry tray with 12 baskets and a shipping crate used at Jerome Relocation Center during WW II (1985.0832).
Mrs. Ellen S. Kurtz: woman's 2-piece dress worn by Clara Scheifley, ca. 1905-10 (1986.0480).
Alberta M. and John R. Kutz: newspaper, The Firey Cross, dated July 6, 1923 (1986.0248).
Labor Institute of Public Affairs (through Larry Kirkman): 3 videotape cassettes and a press kit of advertisements (1986.0924).
Cameron J. LaClair, Jr.: Heathkit shortwave communications receiver (1985.0099).
Landis Tool Company (through D. H. Ruth): universal cylindrical grinding machine designed and constructed by Abraham B. Landis in 1883 and a transfer grinding machine model, mid-20th century (234095).
Lansburgh's Department Store: woman's torso clothing display form, 1950-65 (1986.0974).
Blair Chamberlain Larsen: pair of U.S. hobnail shoes, 1917 (1987.0444).
Jack Larson: bow tie worn by Mr. Larson when playing Jimmy Olson on the "Superman" television series, 1956 (1987.0458).
Nadine L. Lawson: 40 Islamic coins, 22 Byzantine coins, 21 Roman coins, 20 U.S. and foreign tokens and medals, 17 Greek bronze and silver coins, 3 modern minor coins, and 2 medieval Italian coins (1986.1038).
Laybourne/Lemle, Inc., Media Probes (through Linda Cameron): videotape cassette, Media Probes: Political Spots (1982.0506).
League of Women Voters Education Fund (through Grant P. Thompson): 7 videotape cassettes of presidential and vice-presidential candidates' debates in 1984 and League of Women Voters public service announcements (1985.0299).
Mortimer C. Lebowitz and Leonard Lesley: 27 stained glass windows from Jelleff's Department Store in Washington, D.C. made by D'ascenzo Studios of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, ca. 1925 (1985.0195).
Pamela Lechtman: 2 diaries kept by Ms. Lechtman, 1955-56 (1987.0094).
O. H. Lee: letter carrier's badge issued by the Gardena, California Post Office, ca. 1949 (1986.0648).
Dr. John R. Lehmann: code practice machine used to learn radio telegraph code (1986.0693).
Sherry G. Lehr: 7 pairs of artificial legs and an artificial left leg worn by Ms. Lehr from 1954-81 (1987.0362).
David B. Lellinger: 2 pocket compasses (1986.0243).
Jonn E. Lenker: 2 medals commemorating the Redlands Coin Club of Redlands, California and the 50th anniversary of the landing of 3 Russian flyers on July 14, 1937, designed by Mr. Lenker in 1987 (1987.0090).
Eleanor R. Leon: yellow-glazed earthenware jar and cover with silver resist

<<<Page: 359>>>

decoration, made in England, 1800-35 (1986.1006).
Mrs. Pearl Leonard: U.S. Navy officer's blue boat cloak, WW I (1987.0143).
Dr. Robert L. Leslie: 9 sets of type punches used to make matrices for casting printing type and 7 bookbinder's stamps, collected by Dr. Leslie in Paris in 1922))(1986.0193).
Judy Lester: Woman's Ambulance Defense Corps of America khaki uniform with insignia and accessories worn by Miss Lester during WW II (1986.0851).
Charlotte D. and David S. Letts: woman's robe worn by Laura Whitmore Dana, 1878-84 (1986.0815).
Ann Gordon Levine: 4 volumes of the book, The History of Woman Suffrage, and a lithograph of Frances Wright (1986.0050).
Bernard R. Levine: 5 dinner knives, 2 dessert knives, and a dinner fork (1986.0635); dessert knife manufactured by the New York Knife Company and a 3-tined fork, mid-19th century (1987.0377).
Hope Anthony Levy: 289 needlework tools, perforated cardboard embroideries, and examples of canvas work, ribbon work, and pieced work, 18th through 20th centuries (1986.1023).
Steven A. Levy and Lois R. Zuckerman: cash register made by National Cash Register in the 1920s (1986.0899).
Eula B. Lewis: leather fishing tackle wallet, ca. 1800 (1986.0957); 2 silver-plated oil lamps, ca. 1886, 2 brass stencils for calling cards, ca. 1890, a mechanical swimming doll, 1890s, soapstone griddle, ca. 1890, doll stand patented July 26, 1892, and a costume doll, ca. 1941 (1987.0001); 1888 "Harrison" ribbon, "Carrie Nation Hatchet Crusade" medal, Lincoln Exhibit coin, and a section of rail with affidavits verifying its having been split by Abraham Lincoln, all from the 1933 World's Fair, "A Century of Progress," in Chicago, Illinois (1987.0012).
Tommy K. Lewis: self-administered acu-pressure massage device (1986.0937).
Robert D. Lichty: 3 U.S. medals, a U.S. silver ingot, German medal, Canadian dollar, and a Mexican 5-peso coin, all of which commemorate railroads (1986.0709); bronze medal commemorating John F. Kennedy's visit to Germany and Konrad Adenauer, 1963, bronze medal commemorating John F. Kennedy, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and Robert F. Kennedy, and a silver ingot commemorating the Philadelphia Centennial, 1976 (1987.0356).
George Lill III: 2 artist's plasters, dated 1912, by James Earle Fraser for the obverse and reverse of the Indian head-buffalo nickle issued from 1913 to 1938 (1986.0908).
H. L. Lindquist Publications Inc. (through Daniel R. Milliman): 1,152 U.S. and foreign first day and commemorative covers and a souvenir folder (1986.0207); Stamps Magazine (through James Morton): worldwide philatelic collection of 2,315 covers, 26 souvenir cards, 24 stamped envelopes, 19 cinderellas, 15 postal cards, 15 stamps, 8 maximum cards, 5 aerogrammes, 2 postcards, 2 date-stamps, 2 souvenir sheets, and a special events card (1984.0155).
Dana A. Linett: 10-pound note of South Carolina authorized on April 7, 1770 and redeemable for taxes until March 25, 1775 (1986.1007).
The Linotype Group (through Dr. W. Kummer): 2 Merganthaler-Celephane type composing machines which indented letters into papier-mache for type-casting, 1876 and 1879, and Otto Mergenthaler's second "band" machine which cast line-of-type, 1884 (1986.0879).
Joel M. Litman: 7 USAF officer mess dress uniform items and a 2-piece USAF fatigue uniform (1986.0461).
J. B. Litzinger: Japanese naval ensign believed to have been flown from the battleship Mikasa (1986.0828).

<<<Page: 360>>>

George Lloyd: Hickok electric ammeter, 1920s (1986.0993).
Charles E. Locke: handkerchief and personal calling card of Mrs. Woodrow Wilson and a letter from her secretary dated November 16, 1921 (1987.0011).
Paul L. Loewenwarter: 7 Boy Scout uniform items, 2 membership cards, and a roster card used by Ernest David Loewenwarter at Camp Custer, New York, T9T1=14' °(1:986;;0029));.
Ricardo T. Lopez: carved aspen and juniper sculpture of flowers and birds made by Mr. Lopez, ca. 1982 (1986.0700).
Korla Pandit Lord: 2 pieces of telegraph cable laid by American Radio and Cable Company from New York to Cuba about 1915 (1986.0567).
Lordship Industries Incorporated, Manufacturing Jewelers (through Judith Corrigan): 2 U.S. eagle belt plates, a Legionnaire Legion of Merit set, and a Veterans Administration "50 Years of Service" lapel pin (1979.1057).
Betty Lotz in memory of Dorothy Blanchard Bird: sheer silk dress with bobpin lace insertion, ribbon work, and trim embroidered in a floral pattern, 20th century (1986.0882).
Jeffrey A. Lowin: baseball fielder's glove used by Mr. Lowin's father in 1910 (1986.0958).
Ted Lowy: electric pleating iron, ca. 1929 (1986.0737).
Barbara K. and William M. Lubar: "Bay West" wash-up kit, 1920s (1986.0979). Isabel Cary Lundberg: 18-piece silver dresser set made by Frederick Desborough Cary, founder of Globe Art Manufacturing Company in Belleville, New
Jersey, 1907-30, and a machine-made lace runner (1983.0697).
Philip K. Lundeberg, Ph.D.: parachutist badge insignia worn by Paul Munson Lundeberg (1987.0193); philatelic cover commemorating the first battle between the ironclads USS Monitor and CSS Virginia, cancelled at Portsmouth, Virginia on March 9, 1987 (1987.0207).
Barbara M. and Lloyd S. Luther: carte de visite by W. W. Hoyt titled "Dr. M. L. Rossvally, The Converted Jew" (1986.0903).
Robert R. Lyons in memory of Robert Lyons: 2 U.S. Naval cutlasses, model 1860, used by the donor's grandfater Robert Rodgers during his service in the U.S. Navy (1986.0920).
Nancy Cunningham MacDonald: child's appliqued and pieced work bed cover and matching pillow case made in China in 1926 (1986.0676).
Nancy E. MacDonald: 2 composition books, ca. 1832 (1986.0716).
Malcolm MacGregor (through Eugene R. Sullivan): 1,794 autographed postage stamps and 1,407 unautographed postage stamps (1984.0121).
Joseph J. Machado, Jr.: equatorial star finder made by Cc. J. Kullmer of Syracuse, New York in 1910 (1986.0544).
G. A. MacKenzie: 4 covers cancelled at the Shearwater International Air Show in Canada, 1984 and 1986 (1987.0485).
Christine M. Magee: pair of boy's cowboy boots, 1980 (1987.0030).
Christine M. and Christopher M. Magee in memory of Golden Magee Griener: 4 pairs of woman's kid leather gloves which belonged to Mrs. Griener, 1890-1910 (1985.0734).
Samuel B. Magill: sector (305959).
Kenneth R. Mains: metal souvenir cup of the Grand Army of the Republic's 42nd National Encampment held at Toledo, Ohio in September 1908 (1987.0545).
Ward P. Mann: watercolor painting of the house on Holinbeck street in Rochester, New York, considered to be the birthplace of xerography, painted by Mr. Mann in 1980 (1984.0442).
Royal Marcher, Jr.: 38 ship's newspapers and paper memorabilia reflecting a sailor's life aboard the USS Randolph in 1945 and 2 pieces of silk from a

<<<Page: 361>>>

Japanese pilot's parachute (1984.0317).
Marketcom Group (through Robert G. Hennkens): 5 baseball trading cards, 3 pin-back buttons, a set of Conlon series "Baseball Immortals" commemorative cards, and a section of Astroturf from Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri (1985.0811).
Leslie L. Martinez: 5 banner pieces from Pennsylvania used in the Ribbon Peace Rally held in Washington, D.C. on August 4, 1985 (1986.0619).
Justin D. R. and Orlando D. Martino: 3 nuclear protest posters, a mask worn by Justin Martino at the Ribbon Peace Rally in Washington, D.C. on August 4, 1985, and 5 photographs of Justin Martino at the rally (1986.0060).
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lincoln Laboratory: 24 components of a CG-24 computer (304346); (through Evelyn M. E. Murray): silicon wafer (1985.0308).
Margot Bailey Bell Maw: 2 pen holders in an original box marked "Mabie Todd & Company” (1981.0798).
Barbara Ann Maxwell: shoulder bag, pair of gloves, and 2 cap insignia of the woman's U.S. Public Heath Service officer's uniform (1986.0382).
Elizabeth Eckhardt May: colored lithograph of the Battle of Manila Bay copyrighted by Kurtz and Allison of Chicago in 1898 (1980.0491).
Evelyn May: scarf commemorating the 28th convention of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union held in Chicago, May 1953 (1986.0969).
Alfred M. Mayo: 3 Varo "flip-flop" microcircuits, 2 Litton "flip-flop" Microcircuits, a ceramic microcircuit, set of Douglas Aircraft plug-in devices, Seromechanism's magnetic "bubble" microcircuit, anda transmitter microciruit, all 1955-60 (1985.0404).
Edith P. Mayo: booklet titled See How She Runs, Effective Political Techniques by Patricia Jo Smith, DeEtta V. Thompson, and Melissa Thompson in 1975 (1978.0998).
Josephine L. and Terry J. McAdams: wool paisley-type long shawl, ca. 1864 (1986.0881).
Dr. Gilbert McArdle: automobile model which was the First State and Regional Award winner in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, 1955 (1987..0364,) .
John McCabe: handwritten gag by Stan Laurel (1987.0215).
Gregg C. McCornack: 21 phonographic records (1986.0960).
Lynn M. McCullough in memory of Hazel Fitch Foehner: New York State Commission of lst Lieutenant William Thayer signed by Governor William Seward, 1842 (1986.0970).
Ellen J. and Roger W. McIntire: 5 agricultural implement models, 1929-54 (1986.0818).
Helen McPherson: double-bell euphonium with original case, made by C. G. Conn & Company of Elkhart, Indiana in 1934 (1986.0391).
CSM Elwood Lee McSherry, USA (Ret.): U.S. Army green uniform and accessories for Command Sergeant Major (1986.0215).
George Mecir: 3-piece enlisted man's dress blue uniform, 2 enlisted warrants, 1908, and an honorable discharge, 1909 (1986.0462).
John P. Meehan: towel commemorating the Democratic Party Conference of June 1982 held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (1984.1029).
Edith R. Meggars (through Howard Kolodny): 43 mathematical instruments and puzzles (314637).
Mrs. William F. Meggers: 2 Millionaire calculating machines with stands and 5 pieces of documentation (319929).
Barry A. Mehlman: man's burgundy ribbed silk robe with blue brocaded design, made by A. Sulka and Company about 1955 (1986.0939).

<<<Page: 362>>>

Maj. Gen. Thomas W. Mellen, USA (Ret.): U.S. Army Major General mess dress uniform with 3 insignia and a pair of shoulder knots in their original box (1986.0876).
Anthea deForest Mellon in memory of Clayton Ely Emig, Esq.: square grand piano made by Charles Stieff & Co. of Baltimore, Maryland, ca. 1856 and a piano stool (1987.0091).
Mrs. Anita Mercer and Miss Elizabeth A. Skorvaga: woman's dress, 1910-20 (1986.0554).
Margaret Kober Merzbach: 2 neckties and 2 matching handkerchiefs worn by Professor L. H. Merzbach in Texas, 1950-59 (1979.0397).
Bruce H. Meyer: child's Howdy Doody cowboy costume including chaps, vest, boot covers, and neck scarf, worn by Mr. Meyer about 1950 (1986.0587).
Camilla Cherry Michael and Lois Raymond Michael: English medal commemorating the Royal Henley Regatta, Visitors Challenge Cup, 1932 (1987.0453); miner's "dipping needle" compass made by Jos. G. Pollard Company of Brooklyn, New York (1987.0480).
Robert Middleton: Rural Free Delivery cash and stamp box (1986.0483).
Caroline Benes Miller: 2 combs, a rosary, ceramic statue of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, ceramic statue of the Sacred Heart of Mary, tin type, anda copy of Uncle Tom's Cabin (1978.0647).
Robert B. Mills: U.S. Army leather jerkin, WW I (1986.0250).
Forrest M. Mims III: 34 pieces of computer manuals and documentation, a MITS 816 calculator assembled by Mr. Mims in 1971, and an analog language translator computer built by Mr. Mims, 1961-62 (1986.0463); Altair 8800 microcomputer made by Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems of Albuquerque, New Mexico in 1974 (1987.0066).
Claire F. Minami: 2-piece wooden box coated with shellac made by Mrs. Minami's father, Tsuchiichi Fujishige, while interned at Hila River Camp, California during WW II (1986.0424).
State of Minnesota, Department of Revenue (through Thomas R. Lehman): 90 marijuana and controlled substance revenue stamps of Minnesota first issued in August 1986 (1986.0744).
Clarissa Coburn Minnick: 20 Christmas ornaments, 16 kitchen utensils, and an oak dresser with tilting mirror made by Coppes, Zook, and Mutschler Company of Nappanee, Indiana, ca. 1900 (1987.0160).
Rachael F. Mischker in memory of her husband, Erwin John Mischker: micrometer invented and patented by John S. Mischker in 1932 and a pair of electric hedge trimmers invented and patented by Mr. Mischker about 1943 (1987.0422).
University of Missouri-Columbia, Department of Civil Engineering (through Prof. Jonn J. Cassidy): 35 surveying and mapping instruments and 2 books (300659).
Edna G. Mitchell: U.S. Women's Army Corps taupe wool enlisted uniform including a coat, skirt, garrison cap, shirtwaist, and a pair of dress brown pump-style shoes, ca. 1950 (1986.0126).
Frank T. Mitchell, Jr.: 5 tintypes, 4 cabinet cards, 3 mounted photographs, an ambrotype, and a carte de visite (1986.0864).
Abbot Low Moffat and Marion Adams Moffat: watch alarm in its original box (1986.0132).
David R. Moffit: 5 buttons produced for the Democratic Party of Oregon during the 1984 presidential campaign (1986.0855).
Albert F. and Loretta M. Moglie: 3 fiberglass bows by Roth-Glasser, 2 violin bows by A. H. Karr, a violin bow by Albert, cello bow by Richard Geipel, electric metronome, early 19th-century French violin back, anda

<<<Page: 363>>>

workbench with 2 stools and a bending iron used by Mr. Moglie to make and repair violins in Washington, D.C., 1922-87 (1987.0501).
Goverment of the Principality of Monaco, Postes et Telecommunication, Office des Emmissions de Timbres-Poste: 55 mint stamps, 3 souvenir sheets, anda die proof of Monaco (1985.0565); 34 mint stamps, 3 souvenir sheets, and a die proof of Monaco (1986.0277); 15 mint stamps and a miniature sheet of Monaco (1986.0912).
Joan Mondale: 9 buttons, 2 T-shirts, 2 boxes containing cufflinks and tietacks, a necktie, letter in envelope, cookbook, umbrella, scarf, embroidered pocketbook, and a pin (1987.0396).
Mrs. Mary E. Moore: 10 pieces of infant's clothing and accessories dated 1907-08, an infant's robe made in the 1860s, and a girl's dress of 1909-10, all worn by Mrs. Moore as a small child (1986.0280).
Paul Moore: program for the Army-Navy football game on November 29, 1941 (1986.0477).
Robert H. Moore: machine tool price list, machine tool broadside, Thames Tunnel broadside, and a Dynamo design testimonial, 19th century (1986.0610).
D. D. and Lloyd Morgan: 1,183 books, booklets, leaflets, pamphlets, and periodicals on printing and allied trades (1982.0187).
Gale P. Morris: automobile model which won the Third National Scholarship Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, 1949 (1987.0447).
Joan Morris: 9 WW II ration stamp books with a wallet and 2 S&H Green Stamp books (1986.0863).
Lucien E. Morris, M.D.: "Copper Kettle" anesthesia machine made by the Foregger Company about 1955 according to specifications by Mr. Morris, the inventor (1985.0735).
Peter Morse: 1,604 postage stamps and souvenir sheets of Turkey, 1938-72 (1986.0401).
Julia M. Morton: man's combination dress-shirt and a man's skirt designed by Ms. Morton for Spring 1987 (1987.0003).
Marjorie F. Morton: postage stamp-sized minature tintype album dated 1867 (1986.0845).
Lt. Col. William B. Mosey, Jr., USA (Ret.): bolt of fabric printed with 2 48-star U.S. flags (1987.0118).
Motley's Auctions Inc. (through Mark Motley): egg mailing crate (1986.1027).
Dorothy Williams Mott: 2 dresses, a pair of drawers with matching petticoat, cape, neckpiece, and sash worn by Rose Ladd Knowlton, ca. 1900 (1986.0437).
Frances M. Rudell Moyer: 2 woman's bracelets, a woman's brooch, pair of man's Mittens, and a girl's dress, late 19th and early 20th century (1987.0163).
Joan E. Murphy in memory of Regina Codey: 2 woman's jackets with floral embroidery made by Mariska Karasz, mid-20th century (1987.0280).
Mrs. John H. Murray: pieced work quilt in the “Double Wedding Ring" pattern, North Carolina, 1930 and an embroidered butterfly lapel pin, 1930 (1986.1029).
Museu Paranese Emilio Goeldi (through Guilherme M. de La Penha, Ph.D.): Brazilian medal commemorating the 120th anniversary of the Museu Paranese Emilio Goeldi, 1986 (1986.0907).
John P. and Shirley A. Myers: 7 prints and 3 souvenir booklets from the early 20th century (1986.0378).
Susan H. Myers: 207 stereographs of views in Washington, D.C., including the U.S. Capitol building, the White House, and the Pension Building, and a Magazine article about pianos in the White House (1986.0188); 205

<<<Page: 364>>>

stereograph cards of scenes in Washington, D.C. (1987.0002); 21 stereocards of views in Philadelphia, 1887-1907 (1987.0045).
Dr. Alixa Naff: 4 bracelets and a black satin pouch made in Syria in the late 19th century (1986.0878).
Frank A. Nagy: 361 mint and used postage stamps of Turkey (1986.0399).
Dr. Perham C. Nahl: 608 first flight covers from Contract Air Mail routes (1986.0026); 218 first flight covers from Contract Air Mail routes (1986.0990).
National Association of Letter Carriers (through Lorraine Swerdloff): piece of letterhead with envelope, cacheted cover, and a patch of the National Association of Letter Carriers (1986.0769),
National Organization for Women, Inc. (through Lois Galgay Reckitt): 5 T-shirts with ERA slogans, a book titled ERA Countdown Campaign 1981-1982, and a sun visor reading "NOW/PAC Woman" (1986.0061).
National Society Children of the American Revolution (through James H. Johnson): M1842 Austrian Augustin carbine bayonet picked up on a battlefield (1984.0075).
National Tire Wholesale, Inc. (through P. E. Brosmer): oil cloth banner made by workers of the National Tire Wholesale in support of "Hands Across America" held on May 25, 1986 (1986.0617).
National Women's Political Caucus--Pasadena (through Shirley S. Spencer): videotape cassette called "Trailblazers" on women who ran for political office in the Pasdena, California area in 1986 (1987.0188).
The National Yeoman (F) (through Irene M. Brown): 13 documents and Memorabilia, a checkbook, and a plaque of The National Yeoman (F), an organization of women who served in the U.S. Navy during WW I which was disbanded in 1986 (1987.0060).
Mary Ellen P. Neal and Ellen C. Potter: Campfire Girls' Indian dress worn by Ellen C. Potter, ca. 1918 (1987.0425).
Government of the Netherlands, PTT Centrale Directie: 9 mint stamps of the Netherlands (1986.0327); 21 mint stamps and a souvenir sheet of the Netherlands (1986.0680); PTT Headquarters, Postal Department (through A. W. van Ommeren): 9 mint stamps and a souvenir sheet of the Netherlands (1985.0564).
Barbara L. Nettesheim: 2 white linen damask tea tableclothes initialed "L. Si cas: S69 8CL98'6.021 7)\<
Government of New Zealand, Post Office, Philatelic Bureau (through G. W. Warner): 9 mint stamps of New Zealand (1985.0595); 24 vending machine postage labels, 19 mint stamps, and a souvenir sheet of New Zealand (1986.0138); 10 mint stamps and a souvenir sheet of New Zealand (1986.0743).
Jonn W. Nickum, Jr.: 32 Edison phonorecord disks (1985.0893).
A. C. Nielsen Company (through James D. Lyons): audimeter with waxed tape stylus used to monitor radio listening in the 1930s, prototype audimeter with magnetic tape used only in Japan, and a mailable audimeter used to monitor radio and television from 1949 to the 1970s (1986.0664).
Government of Niue, Niue Post Office, Philatelic Bureau: 7 stamps, 3 first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of Niue (1986.0111); 10 mint stamps, 7 souvenir sheets, and 6 first day covers of Niue (1986.0726).
Town of North Brookfield, Massachusetts (through Sheila A. Buzzell): flag of the 12th Colored Artillery Regiment, ca. 1863 (1981.0747).
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Wilson Library, Southern Historical Collection (through Carolyn A. Wallace): 27 political posters (1986.0534).
1S) nA

<<<Page: 365>>>

George A. Norton, Jr.: 2 dues books, a certification card, button, and a decal from the International Association of Machinists, Lodge 174 anda withdrawal card from the Retail International Association, all used by Mr. Norton (1986.0517).
Government of Norway, General Directorate of Posts: 6 mint stamps and 4 first day covers of Norway (1985.0385); 8 mint stamps and 3 first day covers of Norway (1985.0710); 2 mint stamps and a first day cover of Norway (1986.0614); 4 mint stamps and 2 first day covers of Norway (1986.1047); 8 mint stamps, 5 first day covers, and a souvenir sheet of Norway CLS 8720069).
Rev. Donnel O'Flynn: 8-keyed wooden flute made in the 19th century by William Hall & Son of New York (1987.0029).
Robert S. Oakes: celestial globe by James Wilson, 1821 (1987.0077).
Estate of Jay G. Odell, Sr. (through David A. Odell): Laotian handcrafted Muong rifle (1986.0170).
Odin International Limited (through Thomas B. Nelson): Finnish Valmet M-76 light machine gun (1986.0838).
Office and Professional Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC (through G. Beauregard): 4 placards, 2 pieces of Stationery, and 2 buttons of the Office and Professional Employees International Union (1986.0271).
Official Presidential Inaugural Commemoratives (through Jerry L. Wallace): 15 souvenir items, information packets, and tickets distributed during the 1985 inauguration of President Ronald Reagan (1986.0486).
Warren G. Ogden, Jr.: horseshoer's foot vise, Pratt and Whitney Company bench micrometer, combination anvil and vise tool patented in 1877, and a pair of Morley & Sons thread scissors made in Germany (1986.0848).
Ohio Historial Society (through William G. Myers): 39 labor union badges, ribbons, and lapel pins, a wooden token, and a Red Cross button (1986.0408).
Ordnance Technology, Inc. (through Andrew J. Grandy): 5 containers holding 12 cartridges of "U"-shaped ammunition (1986.0057).
Sabinita L. Ortiz: carved pine statuette of St. Anthony of Padua and the Infant Jesus made by Mrs. Ortiz in 1986 at the 20th Festival of American Folklife (1986.0701).
Miss Libbie Osborn: 18 medals and badges and a sword with scabbard used by George Osborn during the Spanish-American War, 1898 (1981.0940).
Susan Ostroff: woman's collar, 1840-60, and a woman's blouse, 1905-10 (1987.0078).
Robert L. Overmyer, Jr.: U.S. Navy Security Police armband worn by Mr. Overmyer while on duty in East Danang, Vietnam, 1968-69 (1987.0174).
Joyce M. Overton: 2 arm bands, 2 song sheets, 2 envelopes, a mailing folder, poster, garbage bag, button, lapel pin, cap, and a T-shirt, all used py MS. Overton during her participation in Chicago in "Hands Across America" on May 25, 1986 (1986.0789).
Randall Owens: stereo viewer and a box of 14 slides, "Genesis Collection" (198730259).
J. Mark Paden: 107 Uruguayan banknotes, 19th and 20th centuries (1986.1037).
Ruth M. Parks: grain testing scale manufactured by E. & T. Fairbanks and Company in St. Johnsbury, Vermont, ca. 1877 (1986.0566).
Parkway Plastics Inc. (through Edward W. Rowan): 8 empty plastic pharmaceutical jars (1983.0748).
Dr. Sidney Peerless: 18 ancient Greek silver coins and a Roman imperial bronze coin (1986.0632).
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Property and Supplies, Bureau of

<<<Page: 366>>>

Management Information Systems (through L. H. Walker, Jr.): UNIVAC I computer component console (305982).
Government of Penrhyn, Post Office: 10 mint stamps, 8 souvenir sheets, and 2 first day covers of Penrhyn (1985.0555); 5 stamps, 2 first day covers, and a souvenir sheet of Penrhyn (1986.0258); 11 mint stamps, 4 souvenir sheets, and 4 first day covers of Penrhyn (1986.0722).
People For The American Way (through Arthur Kropp): 4 videotape cassettes and a poster (1986.0756).
The Peoria Journal Star, Inc. (through David J. Schlink): Unicon calculating slide rule (303772).
Charly Perethian: modified Rifle/Yamaha high-mileage motorcycle (1987.0233).
John C. Perkins: boy's 2-piece black velvet suit with a bolero-style jacket, 1870s (1986.0941).
Richard Peshek: adding machine enclosed in glass made by the Austin Adding Machine Company of Baltimore, Maryland, ca. 1912 (304348).
Arnold C. Petersen: 2 postal money orders of the 1890's, 2 postal money orders of 1951, a postal note of 1945, and a first flight cover for Contract Air Mail route 49B (1986.0945); podium plaque with the U.S. Post Office Department seal used by Mr. Petersen when giving policy speeches while he was the Director of Postmasters (1987.0192); twine knife (1987.0446).
Mendel L. Peterson: 1,540 modern coins of Europe, the Indian subcontinent, the Far East, and the Pacific area (1986.0800); 1,504 foreign modern minor coins, 1l U.S. and foreign tokens and medals, 10 ancient and medieval Islamic and Oriental coins, and 2 pieces of numismatic memorabilia relating to Stuart Mosher (1986.0862); 11 cowrie shells used in trade, 5 Moghal silver rupees of India, 2 bronze Roman counterfeit coins, and a piece of trade copper encrusted with coral and cowrie shells (1986.0892).
Jane F. Petitmermet: Philco radio receiver (1986.0671).
Thongsoun Phuthama: Kmhmu-American canteen made for use in the house by Mr. Phuthama (1985.0576).
Naomi Piekarski in the names of her children Bernard, Esther Bernice, and Leonard David Piekarski: adding machine patented by the Smallwood Calculator Company of Oakland, California on February 23, 1926 (1977.0688).
Byronul Pineda: phototransmitter made by Muirhead Company in England and used by Time-Life Magazines to transmit pictures to and from overseas bureaus (1983.0308).
Robert A. Podrog: red fiberglass-reinforced plastic chair designed by Verner Panton in 1960 and manufactured by Herman Miller, Inc. in 1971 GU9871..039'3)) =
O. L. Polinger: Monroe adding machine (1987.0403).
Poole's Fifth Avenue: belt buckle commemorating the 200th anniversary of the U.S. Constitution (1987.0100).
Lisa S. Popeil for the Popeil Family in memory of Samuel J. Popeil: Popeil "Pocket Fisherman" spin casting outfit (1986.0978).
Zaida Mirzy Potter in memory of Nejib Mirzy: woman's leopard and beaver coat, 1938-46 (1986.0636).
James A. Potts: 54 postage stamps and 2 second day covers commemorating athlete Jim Thorpe, May 25, 1984 (1986.0559).
Pratt Graphics Center, Pratt Institute (through Mel Alexenberg): offset lithograph titled Digitized Homage to Rembrandt: Day Angels made from a computer-generated image by Mel Alexenberg in August 1986 (1987.0021).
William S. Pretzer: 4 buttons condeming Richard Nixon and the Watergate scandal (1985.0173).

<<<Page: 367>>>

Princeton University, Plasma Physics Laboratory (through Harold P. Furth and Lyman Spitzer, Jr.): Model A stellarator, 1952-53 (1984.0103).
John B. Priser: 371 electronic calculators and 9 AC adapters, 1971-86 (1986.0988); 32 electronic pocket calculators (1987.0435).
Pulse Electronics, Inc. (through Emilio A. Fernandez and Jose M. Llosa): Slack Detector System end-of-train device test unit, 1970s, and a Trainlink end-of-train monitoring device, 1985 (1985.0876).
Purdue University, School of Civil Engineering (through Douglas N. Winslow): screw-power materials testing machine made by Riehle Brothers Testing Machine Company of Philadelphia, 1893 (1987.0357); model of Fink truss bridge and a model of a covered bridge (1987.0477).
RCA/David Sarnoff Research Center (through J. Maddocks): 2 laser diodes, a holograph player, holobeam system tape sample, argon laser frame, argon laser tube, and a Weierstrasse sphere (1985.0222); (through Wm. Webster): 3 microprocessors, transistor, and a transistorized ukelele (1984.0120).
RCA Service Company, Government Services (through James J. Cook): Videovoice unit, Videovoice control, pulse unit, FM generator, frame storage module, FM demodulator, and a pulse sampler, all developed about 1970 (1985.0802).
The RAND Corporation: memory plane and gating bay components of the JOHNNIAC computer (1986.0768).
N. Random: 3-D photographic postcard of Jesus praying in the Garden of Gethsemane, made in Japan, ca. 1975 (1986.0070).
J. H. Ratcliffe: 7 photographs taken at Natural Bridge, Virginia, ca. 1920 (19:87. 0:254.)).
Oliver Read: 95 early phonographs (253422).
James H. Reck: 2 tunnel-lining-bolts from the Hudson & Manhatten Tunnel, 1903, and the third Lincoln Tunnel, 1954 (1987.0211).
Blanche E. Reid: 337 objects from the contents of the Reid Pharmacy in Clifton, Illinois, which closed about 1950 (1984.0351).
Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union: piece of stationery, button, and a label of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (1986.0270).
Lillian Rhodes: photoetched print of titled Doors by Mary Trevor (1986.1017).
The Ribbon California (through Audrey A. Keller): 20 ribbon banners used in the August 4, 1985 peace rally held in Washington, D.C. (1986.0006); 18 ribbon banners used in the August 4, 1985 peace rally held in Washington, Dac. (198650563).
Margaret van D. Rice: 7 drawing instruments and 4 scales owned by Erasmus D. Leavitt, Jr., 19th century (1977.0460).
Marjorie M. Rice: book of embroidery silk thread made by Moody "Art Silks," late 19th or early 20th century (1986.0678).
Oscar W. Richards. Ph.D.: 222 microscope parts, accessories, and test equipment and 2 microscopes used in Dr. Richards' work at Spencer Lens Company, 1920s-40s (1986.0500).
Jacqueline and John F. Richardson, Jr.: mechanical bear with key in original box made in Geneva, Switzerland, ca. 1900, and a Santa Claus picture puzzle in original box made by McLoughlin Brothers of New York, ca. 1897 (1986.0561).
Countess Graziella Righi-Battaglini: 3 man's waistcoat's, 1770-90, and a Silver clothing brush, 1910 (1986.0613).
Carter Rila: field jacket from the U.S. Army and a field jacket from the U.S. Army Air Force (1986.0972).
Ringe Media, Inc.: 2 videotape cassettes titled "Coalition for SDI 'Peace Shield,'" made October 16, 1985 (1986.0312).
Fred E. Ringe, Jr.: 2 pieces of linoleum manufactured by Congoleum-Nairn,

<<<Page: 368>>>

ENC ey. Cais LIAO! (1987. 013'5))i.
R. Rinzler: saucer inscribed "Votes For Women" made for people attending a suffrage meeting at Alma Belmont's Marble House in Newport, Rhode Island, 1909 (1986.0604).
Prof. Charles G. Rob, M.D.: surgical stapler made in the Union of Soviet Socialists Republics and used to connect blood vessels, ca. 1956 (1986.0626).
Frances L. and Wilfrid Robbins: red wool cloak with detachable hood and red fox fur trim, worn in the 18th century by members of the Cotton Family (1987.0024).
Edwin K. Robinson: tie pin commemorating the first meeting of the Brotherhood of Railway Trainmen (1986.0968).
Margaret F. Robinson in memory of Col. John H. Robinson, USAF: armchair made of steer horns from Henry H. Robinson's Turtleneck Ranch, Wyoming, 1890s (1986.0989).
Marcel X. Rocca: 15 silver tankas of Aq Qoyunlu Ya' Qub, A.D. 1478-90 (1986.0865).
Beatrix D. Roesler: 11 objects related to Mrs. Roesler's participation in the "Walk for Heart" fund-raising race held in Washington, D.C., 1986 (CV986'..0777-5)).
R. G. Rolfe: Model A "Paisley Calculator" calculating rule (1987.0183).
Edward Rondthaler: 2 sets of photographic layout dry plates used in an original Rutherford opticon, 1936-38, 2 photo-lettered stock certificates produced 1933-35, and a photomatrix alphabet plate used in 1933 (1987.0540).
Lucy W. Rosenau in memory of Fred S. Rosenau: identification tags and collar insignia for the Office of War Information, WW II (1986.0228).
J. William Rosenthal, M.D.: 18 optical instruments (1986.0929); pair of Chinese spectacles, English spectacle case, and an English monocular, all 19th century (1987.0016); 7 pairs of spectacles, a pair of goggles, and an artificial eye (1987.0244).
George C. Ross: standard street mailbox made by the Danville Stove and Manufacturing Company in 1926 (1986.0759).
Ann Rothberg: Curl Free hair relaxer kit made by the Prom Cosmetics Division of the Gillette Company of Chicago, Illinois, ca. 1970 (1981.1006).
Sol Ruch: washing machine patent model by Bennett C. Bailey of Constitution, Ohio, patented on November 29, 1870 (1987.0040).
E. Arthur Russell: automobile model which won the First National Scholarship Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest and a wrench for removing or tightening wheel hubs on the model, 1957 (1987.0449).
Helen Winnett Russell: black fur hat and a straw hat with pink silk flowers, 1950-53, and a hatbox, 1942-53 (1986.0745).
SACO Defense Systems, Inc. (through Charles M. Roberts): 30 linked machine gun cartridges and a U.S. M60E3 prototype machine gun (1983.0420).
Virginia H. Sahm: 134 U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army uniform items, insignia, and accessories (1987.0166).
Simone A. Saidman: woman's T-shirt, “Liberty 1886 Centennial 1986" (1986.0750).
Jeanne Saindon: pair of silk and leather high-heeled sandal-type shoes, ca. 1950 (1986.0682).
St. Louis Medical Society (through Harry O. Cole and Gordon R. Garrett): 129 medical instruments (1977.0808).
St. Mary's Hospital (through Sister Juli Hanser and Myron Muckerheide): 2 Model 100 laser handpieces and a discharge tube (1985.0342).
St. Mary's University of San Antonio, Physics Department (through William J.

<<<Page: 369>>>

Hamm, S.M. and Daniel J. White): betatron constructed under the supervision of Donald Kerst at the University of Illinois in 1944, a power source and control cabinet, vacuum chamber, and a broken vacuum chamber (1984.0739).
Robert Salem: tie with "Superman" logo woven into the fabric, 1940-59 (1987.0488).
Dr. Matt T. Salo: sign advertising "Miss Sally, Palm Reader" used at her place of business in Washington, D.C. from 1984 to 1986 (1987.0639).
Frank J. Sargent and John Cameron Swayze: desk plaque with the name "John Cameron Swayze" carved by Frank J. Sargent in 1950 and used by Mr. Swayze on the Camel News Caravan Television Show (1987.0479).
Helen Sargent: 9 uniform items and insignia, 4 letters and papers of discharge, 3 photographs, a calling card, service certificate, anda letter awarding the Victory Medal, all from the U.S. Marine Corps service of Pvt. Helen E. Ostheimer during WW I (1987.0467).
SAS Philatelic Club (through Delmar Nordh): 10 first flight covers of the Scandanavian Airline Systems (1986.0653); (through Niels Sommer): 20 first flight covers of the Scandanavian Airline Systems (1986.0090).
Stephen O. Saxe: Lanston Monotype Machine Company's first stock ledger with entries dating 1892 to 1906 (1986.0692).
Paul Arthur Scheeler: "hand phaser" prop weapon said to have been used in the television series "Star Trek" (1987.0095).
Scheitlin & Borner U.S.A. (through P. Dutton): 30 samples of contemporary tablecloth and napkin fabrics (1985.0418).
Paul L. Schmidt: Indian Chief motorcycle with Princess sidecar manufactured by the Hendee Manufacturing Company of Springfield, Massachusetts in 1923 (1:9861.0753>)\.
Alan J. M. Schneider: "Teacher in Space" cacheted cover postmarked from Kennedy Space Center on January 28, 1986 (1986.0217).
Harry E. Schoepf: automobile model which won the National Styling Scholarship Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, 1961 (1987.0436).
Ted Schofield: cyanotype postcard of the exterior of a house in Carlisle, Kentucky, ca. 1906 (1987.0158).
Albert W. Schreck: 2 money orders, a silver certificate, postal cancelling device used in Naples, Italy, and a V-Mail letter from Mr. Schreck to his wife, all WW II (1987.0547).
June Sakata Scoggins: chest of 6 drawers made in a Japanese-American relocation camp during WW II (1985.0831).
Phillip Seitz: box of 11 glass stereo slides titled "Monuments de Paris" and a box of ll glass stereo slides titled "Photographies: Chateau De Versailles" (1987.0605).
Selchow and Righter Company (through Richard P. Selchow): "Genus" and “Baby Boomer" editions of "Trivial Pursuit" board game, 1983 (1984.0858).
Ross Sellers: 5 design books from I. Bedichimer & Company of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1893-1925, 2 photograph albums, an order book, jewelry carrying case, and a jewelry case with 41 masonic pins (1986.0502); photographic sample book of jewelry made by I. Bedichimer & Company, 1920s (1986.0916).
Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC (through Richard W. Cordtz): sheets of labels, piece of stationery, button, and a sticker of the Service Employees International Union (1986.0363); (through Martin H. Dickenson): 2 videotape cassettes, a leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, and a folder, all concerning labor and the 1988 presidential candidates (1987.0514); (through Suzanne M. Miller): 6 posters of the Services

<<<Page: 370>>>

Employees International Union (1987.0522).
Alex Shagin: 4 U.S. art medals by Alex Shagin, 1984-86 (1986.0290); 2 bronze medals commemorating Georgia O'Keeffe and Amasis Painter by Alex Shagin, 1986 (1987.0355).
Rose Shain: 21 paintings and drawings of labor strikes and civil rights subjects by Sarah Berman Beach (1987.0132).
James C. Shanks: 15 objects related to rehabilitation after a laryngectomy (1986.0959).
Anne R. Shaw: woman's pheasant feather hat worn by Mrs. Shaw's aunt, Evelyn B. Martin, in the 1950s (1987.0428).
Margery W. Shaw, M.D.: volumes 10 and 11 of the Henry A. Meyer collection containing 128 Napoleonic and French Revolution covers and documents (1985.0026); volumes 12, 13, and 14 of the Henry A. Meyer collection containing 293 Napoleonic and French Revolution covers and documents (1986.0025).
Mary Shaw and Charletta J. Woodward: "Dana" poseable doll from the "Barbie" series by Mattel, Inc., 1986 (1986.0719).
David H. Shayt: white plastic pocket slide rule used to compute dividend rates, current yields, and market selling prices for bonds, ca. 1960 (1987.0409).
Robert E. Sheldon: patented Jew's harp with aluminum amplifying horn, early 20th century (1986.0375).
Shugart Associates (through J. S. Campbell): Shugart SA900 computer floppy disk drive made in 1973 (1980.0612).
Sam Silverman: 4 photographs of Adlai E. Stevenson, Jaqueline Kennedy, John F. Kennedy, and Lyndon B. Johnson taken on December 6, 1962 (1986.0518).
Frances L. Simmons: 2 cotton quilt sections, ca. 1922, and a printed cotton poster titled Forest Fires, ca. 1900 (1987.0278).
Roger Simpson and Bob Williams: commemorative silver coin encased in plastic, "1984 Republican National Convention" (1986.0394).
George W. Sims: 2 sets of vest studs, a set of cuff buttons, pair of cuff links, collar stud, and a jewelry box, all 1920-50, and a gold-headed cane, 1895 (1986.0487).
The Singer Company (through Thomas W. David and R. C. Hauf): 6 sewing machines, 5 model sewing machines, 2 prototype sewing machines, an experimental sewing machine, and a film of sewing machine cabinet making, 1850-1978 (1985.0584); Diehl Manufacturing Company electric motor fan, ca. 1885 (1985.0593).
Nathan Singer: box of Poudre de Riz white face powder made by Vogue Parfumery of New York, ca. 1920 (1981.0377).
Bounsouk and Lay Sivilay: 6 musical instruments, 4 rice baskets and winnowers, a fish trap, cotton gin model, pot holder, spoon, carabao bell, and a ritual staff, made and used by Kmhmu-Americans Lay Sivilay and his son, Bounsouk (1985.0570).
Adele and Lewis Smith: 10 Stevengraph portraits and a Stevengraph postcard of Coventry, all made of Jacquard-woven silk in paper mounts (1987.0114).
Mrs. Beatrice F. Smith: 2 banners from The Ribbon Peace Rally held on August 4, 1985 in Washington, D.C. (1986.0379).
C. Charles and Veronica Smith: D-cylinder copper-plate printing press made by the Kelton Machine Company of Brooklyn, New York in 1895 (1984.0698).
Mrs. Hugh F. Smith: obverse die and 2-piece broken reverse die for striking a Washington half-dollar, dated 1792 (1986.0868).
Marguerite C. Rawdon Smith: first aid kit and pouch, canvas leggings, Lanyard pistol, pistol belt, and an officer's coat, WW I and WW II eras

<<<Page: 371>>>

A. Richard Stirni: U.S. Army Air Force flying suit and a U.S. Navy helmet (1986.0209).
Gregory Stolow: 24,701 postage stamps, 748 covers, 74 postal cards, and 1,902 miscellaneous philatelic material (1981.0369).
H. W. Stone: 5 shoulder patches, 2 jackets, and a raincoat worn by Mr. Stone while a letter carrier in the Miami, Florida area, 1960s (1986.0651).
Lois Greene Stone: 3 buttons and a set of 6 glass beads and a set of 2 mother-of-pearl buttons in floral and animal shapes, all 1930-55 (1986.0199); 13 cards of buttons made by various manufacturers and a set of 4 mother-of-pearl horse buttons made by the B. Blumenthal and Company button manufacturers, all made before 1954 (1986.0299); woman's rhinestone necklace and bracelet set, a necklace of "pop-it" beads, and 2 woman's bracelets, 1940-60 (1986.0697); lucite handbag purchased by Ms. Stone in Miami Beach in 1956 (1986.0703); clear plastic pin in the shape of a horse's head worn by Ms. Stone during the 1940s (1986.0704).
Kurt G. Strauss: 19 medals and insignia worn by Jacques Strauss while a Master Chief Petty Officer in the Austro-Hungarian Navy, 1900-18 (1987.0230).
Clay T. Strickland: 10 tobacco sticks, 4 tobacco grading sticks, a looping horse, and a chopping hoe (1986.0797).
Jeremiah J. Sullivan: 4 police, fire department, and ranger badges (1987.0204).
Suncor Incorporated, Oil Sands Division (through E. R. G. Moore): 6 tar sand specimens and a holding tray (1981.0336).
David M. Sundman: 197 approval booklets and cards, philatelic mounting devices, measuring gauges, and miscellaneous papers used by stamp collectors and dealers and 6 philatelic covers from various stamp dealers (1987.0198); $1.00 Rush Lamp and Candle stamp with invert error, issued by the U.S. Postal Service in 1979 (1987.0145); empty stamp album, "The Heritage Collection, United States Commemorative Stamps 1935-1984," made by the Mystic Stamp Company, 1985 (1987.0217).
Dr. James M. Swain: 35 Western flutes, 18th-19th centuries (1985.0016).
Curtis D. Swan: original drawing for Superman comic (1987.0462).
Swarthmore College, Department of Engineering (through Prof. Nelson A. Macken): surveyor's transit made by C. L. Berger & Sons of Boston, ca. 1896, a transit case made by Queen & Company of Philadelphia, and an unmarked tripod (1986.0668); Sproul Observatory (through John E. Gaustad): 2 photographs of C. A. Robert Lunden and a transit circle (1986.0667); calculating machine distributed by Reuter (1986.0684).
Government of Sweden, Postens Frimarksavdelning (through Sirkka Lentinen): 505 mint stamps, 35 first day covers, 24 maximum cards, 8 aerogrammes, and 6 souvenir booklets of Sweden (1986.0122); 265 mint stamps, 30 maximum cards, 28 first day covers, and 5 souvenir sheets of Sweden (1985.0702).
James W. Symington: model of the steamboat Charlotte Dundas built in 1965 by Robert I. Innes after the original steamboat built by William Symington of Scotland in 1801 (1987.0042).
Jay Tabari: nurse's cap handmade of linen with a drawn work border and a mother of pearl button at the neck (1986.0732).
Ellenor Tallmadge: Northwind electric fan, ca. 1915 (1986.0981).
Masako Tanaka: wooden chest made in Manzanar Relocation Camp and painted by Mrs. Tanaka with Pennsylvania Dutch motifs, WW II (1985.0829).
Gerd Tangeman: manipulator for the "Double-Check" cash fare receipt used in issuing train tickets, invented and patented by Charles 0. Tangeman of Fern Bank, Ohio on August 4, 1896 (1987.0053).
Ruth McVitty Taquery: woman's 2-piece black dress, 1903-6 (1986.0474).
Paul M. Taylor: 23 Indonesian banknotes, 5 Indonesian coins, an Indonesian

<<<Page: 372>>>

currency announcement broadside, and a medal and medalet of the Supreme Patriarch of Thailand (1986.1036).
Nell P. and William F. Tearman: first day cover commemorating the Second Annual Frankfort, Indiana, Air Show held June 7, 1987 (1987.0495).
Eleanor Lee Templeton: oil portrait of Fleet Surgeon Bailey Washington III by an unknown artist, 1820s (1987.0164).
Texas Instruments Incorporated (through Herman L. Pope, Jr. and Bob Wilkins): "Silent 700" portable electronic data terminal (1987.0186).
The University of Texas, McDonald Observatory (through Dr. Harlan J. Smith): 2 photomultiplier tubes, Korad laser with ruby rod, and a Varian computer used for lunar survey, 1969-85 (1985.0752).
Textile Processors, Service Trades, Health Care, Professional and Technical Employees International Union (through Frank A. Scalish): piece of letterhead stationery, label, and a newsletter of the Textile Processors, Service Trades, Health Care, Professional and Technical Employees International Union (1986.0359).
Pauline Thomas: fragment of fused glass, concrete, and metal found near Ground Zero at the atomic blast site at Hiroshima, Japan in 1947 (1986.0097).
V. L. Thompson: 6 uniform items of Woodmen of the World and the Knights of Pythias, 1895-1910 (1986.0606).
Vicki L. Thorn: 355 political message buttons (1986.0666); 162 pinback buttons with slogans relating to sports, entertainment, fraternal organizations, education, and other community activities (1986.0773).
Caroline C. Thorpe: copy of an editorial from the Woman's Home Companion of April 1921 and an issue of The Woman Citizen dated September 10, 1921 (1987.0268).
Marilee Tillstrom: pair of girl's OshKosh overalls embroidered with animal designs, 1975 (1986.0944).
Jeffrey W. Tinsley: cotton T-shirt from the "Walk For Hunger" fund-raising campaign (1986.0774).
Paul A. Tolovi: Civil Defense Radioactivity Detection Kit, including 2 radiological survey meters, 2 dosimeters, and a dosimeter charger (1986.0018); U.S. reimpregnation kit (1986.0208).
Mary Trevor: 2 working proofs, 2 positives, a negative, plate for Doors and a working proof for Doors II, illustrating the photoetching process (1L9862:1015)).
George M. and Shirley A. Trotter: Osborne I microcomputer and monitor, 1981 (1986.0683).
Marion A. Trozzolo: "Happy Pan," the first Teflon-coated cooking pan produced, made by the LPF Plastics Corporation of Kansas City, Missouri in 1961 (1986.1005).
Robert A. Truax: folded letter dated June 1853, postcard of "The Mason, R.F.D." dated February 11, 1907, and a postcard of an "Auto Car in Mail Service" dated July 21, 1909 (1986.1026); 2 programs commemorating the laying of the cornerstone and the dedication of the Seventh Post Office Department Headquarters Building, 1932 and 1934 (1987.0088).
Mary Tsuruko Tsukamoto: woven suitcase painted green, ca. 1940 (1985.0830).
Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Directorate of the Postal Department: 13 mint stamps and 8 first day covers of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (1985.0594); 16 mint stamps, 12 first day covers, and a souvenir sheet of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (1986.0670); (through Aysel N. Erduran): 11 stamps and 5 first day covers of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (1985.0023).
Turner Entertainment Co. (through Haldon R. Harrison): original screenwriter's

<<<Page: 373>>>

copy of the first script for The Wizard of Oz, written and annotated by Noel Langley, 1938 (1987.0395).
Mrs. Joe Turner: 4 phonograph records and 2 cassette tapes of recordings by "Big Joe" Turner (1986.0425).
Government of the United Arab Emirates, General Post Office, Philatelic Section: 4 mint postage stamps of the United Arab Emirates (1985.0785); 12 mint postage stamps of the United Arab Emirates (1986.0218).
United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada (through Charles J. Habig and H. Allyn Parmenter): 4 labels, 2 patches, 2 year buttons, 2 Stickers, a tie bar, banner, cuff links, decal, tie tac, envelope, sheet of stationery, booklet, and a book, all relating to the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry (1986.0427).
United Auto Workers (through Peter G. Laarman): 2 videotape cassettes on "Trade and the Future of America" and a news brochure (1987.0189).
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (through Roger A. Sheldon): membership campaign card in case, membership card, dues book, patch, decal, envelope, booklet, piece of letterhead, and a sheet of union logos of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (1986.0854); ribbon of the Cripple Creek Miners Union Number 40 (9'8'7"..0525').
United Family Awareness, Air Line Pilots Association (through John E. LeRoy): 8 buttons, 3 posters, 3 handouts, 2 cassette tapes, 2 information kits, a sticker, and a booklet from the United Pilots Strike, 1985 (1985.0906).
United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 1986 (through Fred W. Tittle): piece of stationery and a lapel pin of the United Food Handlers Union (19:8'6:.:0'2'6:9')\.
United Furniture Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC, International Office: piece of stationery with a decal of the United Furniture Workers of America (1986.0330).
United Garment Workers of America (through William O'Donnell): piece of stationery, button, and a label of the United Garment Workers of America (1986.0539).
United Nations Postal Administration: 348 postage stamps of the United Nations (1986.0256); 648 mint stamps and 14 souvenir sheets of the United Nations (1986.0649).
United Paperworkers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, International Headquarters: 2 union label cards, 2 pieces of stationery, 2 Stickers, and 2 buttons of the United Paperworkers International Union (1986.0337).
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service (through Walter E. Furen): 18-piece laser range pole system (1986.0499).
U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards: 11 components of the SWAC computer (1983.0208); (through John P. Tinker): Cuthill soft X-ray spectrometer with spare components (1981.0438).
U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Geodetic Survey (through Marvin Waggy): 36 scientific instruments (1986.0395).
U.S. Department of Defense, Defense Mapping Agency, Hydrographic/Topographic Center (through Col. Peter G. O'Neill): copper engraving plate, British Isles North Sea (1987.0125); Department of the Air Force (through Herbert H. Bell): U.S. AR-15 Armalite rifle (1982.0514); Air Force Museum (through Gwendolyn M. King): phaser trigger switch (1985.0351); Headquarters Rome Air Development Center (through Anthony J. Feduccia and

<<<Page: 374>>>

Frank Mollura): 4 thermoelectric generators, control panel cabinet, and skid base mount (1982.0260); Department of the Army, Anniston Army Depot: 4 machine guns, 2 rifles, 2 pistols, and a grenade launcher (1983.0410); Combat Systems Test Activity (through Cecil E. Martin, Jr. and Robert C. Schnell): 20 U.S. Howitzer cartridges, 6 U.S. Howitzer cartridge cases, and a training cartridge (1986.0396); Fort Carson Frontier Museum
through Barbara Springer): 10 firearms (1986.0525); Fort Carson Museum of the Army of the West (through Barbara Springer): 1l reproductions of U.S. and Viet Cong flags, an original U.S. 49-star flag, and a tunic of a Japanese navy cadet pilot (1986.0787); The Institute of Heraldry (through Opal V. Landrum): 29 U.S. distinctive unit crest insignia (1986.0886); 48 U.S. distinctive insignia (1987.0373); (through Col. Gerald T. Luchino): Multinational Force and Observers Medal with case (1986.0915); Operations Command (through William J. Stephens): Russian and English language teletypewriters and a type ECTRRMII cryptographic equipment used for international communication (1983.0232); The Pentagon (through Raymond A. Bell): 17 pieces of equipment comprising the Washington-Moscow Direct Communications Link (1986.0520); U.S. Army Center for Military History, Fort George G. Meade Museum (through James A. Speraw, Jr.): 8 firearms (1986.1001); U.S. Army Quartermaster Museum (through Horace Mann): 175 experimental uniforms including prototypes and issue standards, 95 pieces of insignia, and a swatch book of uniform clothing samples (318026); U.S. Military Academy (through Lloyd A. Buchalter): steam-heating system convector, ca. 1899 (1986.0211); Women's Army Corps Museum (through Elizabeth J. Avery): 3 booklets, a leaflet, and a pamphlet on the history of the Women's Army Corps (1986.0962); Department of the Navy, Naval Air Reserve Center Denver, Buckley Air National Guard Base (through L. W. Perry): U.S. Navy service dress blue uniform cap and necktie and a yearbook of the Naval Air Technical Training Center at Norman, Oklahoma, 1945, all used by Lt. (jg.) Leone C. Bradbury (1986.0658); Naval Research Laboratory (through Capt. E. L. Ebbert) first production prototype of Varian Associates Model H-10 atomic hydrogen maser (1981.0276); U.S. Marine Corps, Headquarters, Office of the Commandant: 14 battle streamers (1985.0884); U.S. Naval Submarine Library and Museum (through Mr. Hackett and Wallace W. Wilhelm): 3 pieces of British Mark VII submarine escape equipment and a Steinke hood escape appliance with 4 accessories (1980.0852). Department of Energy (through Don R. Sloan): set of 7 modules and an explanatory panel of a 1/24 scale engineering model of the Clinch River Breeder Nuclear Reactor Plant, ca. 1982 (1986.0392). Department of the Interior, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (through Peter A. Anastasi): pane of 30 stamps and the die proof for the 1986-87 season of Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation federal revenue stamps (1986.0742); (through Norma Opgrand): uncut sheet of 120 Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation federal revenue stamps for the 1987-88 season, autographed around the edges by people responsible for its production (1987.0486). Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, Dallas Field Division (through M. J. Sibice): 21 mint postage stamps (1986.0612); Federal Bureau of Investigation (through Jan W. Brown): 15 pieces of U.S. paper currency, 1875-1918 (1985.0675). Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (through L. E. Dallas): U.S. Marlin rifle, Austrian Mannlicher Schonauer rifle, and a German MG34 machine gun (1982.0515); (through Sherman P.

<<<Page: 375>>>

Route): 11 U.S. and foreign small firearms (1986.0608); ATF Evidence Vault (through Sherman P. Route): U.S. Marlin rifle (1987.0764); Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (through Louise Beachler): Japanese light machine gun and a Belgian assault rifle (1986.0515); Financial Management Service (through Thomas Gilliliand): U.S. Treasury check for $1.00 encased in lucite and payable to Robert McC. Adams, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (1986.0182); U.S. Mint (through Donna Pope): 4 bronze medals from the U.S. National Historical Series (1986.0291); 4 gold bullion coins and a silver bullion coin issued by the U.S. Mint in 1986 (1987.0476); U.S. Secret Service (through Richard T. Race): 15 firearms (1986.0493).
Executive Branch, Office of the Vice President (through Mary Ann Fronce): 172 stamps and 25 souvenir sheets of Hungary contained in a commemorative album presented to Vice President George Bush by Jozsef Marjai, Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Hungary in May 1982 (1987.0089). General Services Administration, Federal Property Resources Services, DPUP: 26 wrist watches and a pocket watch, all reflecting state of the art in watch manufacturing of the 1970s (1982.0058).
Legislative Branch, Library of Congress, Exchange and Gift Division (through Elena Zahirpour): infant's dress and a boy's dress, 1829-35 (1986.0582); Manuscript Division (through James H. Hutson): 1,245 philatelic covers, 3 postal cards, 2 stamps, a souvenir program, and a money order receipt (1984.0422); 656 philatelic covers, 184 stamps, 7 cut corners, 4 unused cachets, 3 meter strips, and 2 postal cards (1985.0699); 536 folded letters, 482 postage stamps, 266 covers, and 2 stamped envelopes (1987.0096).
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Jet Propulsion Laboratory (through J. B. Jesus): Varian Associates pre-production model and production Model V-4700A rubidium-vapor frequency standards and a power supply (1980.0511); Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center (through Elsie M. Easley, Mike Puryear, and Dorothy Starnes): life-support space suit with air hose and a mobile bio-isolation system equipment pushcart used to protect David, the "Bubble Boy," born with severe combined immune deficiency syndrome, whenever he left his bubble-like isolation chamber, ca. 1984 (1986.0450).
Office of Personnel Management, Alexandria Distribution Center (through David P. Funsten): 3 helmets, a gas mask with identifying tag, and a tin of biscuits produced for the Civil Defense Agency, early 1970s (1987.0191); Purchase, Policy, and Property Section (through Wade Burger): 26 hardware components of a UNIVAC 9400 computer, 1960s (1987.0465).
Postal Service (through C. R. Clauson): 2 Thompson submachine guns (1986.0698); (through Preston R. Tisch): framed hand-printed plate proof of the AMERIPEX '86 stamp (1987.0172); Customer Services Department, Stamp Management Branch, Stamps Division (through James R. Williams): 710 postage stamps, 183 souvenir pages, 36 commemorative panels, 16 covers, 16 souvenir programs, and 3 postal cards (1985.0553); District of Columbia City Post Office, Collections and Delivery Services (through Francis T. Brisco): blue waterproof canvas mailbag (1986.0754); International Postal Affairs Department (through Peter Van Dernoot): 3,221 postage stamps and 252 souvenir sheets of the Universal Postal Union nations, 1983-84 (1984.0602); International Relations Branch (through Michael J. Regan): 21,514 postage stamps, 1,326 souvenir sheets, 3 labels, and a die proof, all of Universal Postal Union nations, 1978-82

<<<Page: 376>>>

(1983.0147); 3,066 postage stamps and 184 souvenir sheets of the Universal Postal Union nations, April-September 1984 (1985.0021); 2,270 postage stamps and 181 souvenir Sheets of Universal Postal Union nations, October 1984 to January 1985 (1985.0263); 1,139 mint stamps and 60 souvenir sheets of the People's Republic of China and 220 mint stamps and 20 souvenir sheets of Austria (1985.0554); 3,622 postage stamps and 271 souvenir sheets of the Universal Postal Union nations, February to July 1985 (1985.0796); 640 mint stamps, 54 die proofs, and 20 souvenir sheets of Austria, Japan, South Africa, and Togo (1986.0301); 2,210 postage stamps and 140 souvenir sheets of Universal Postal Union nations, August to November 1985 (1986.0302); Marketing Department, Stamps Management Branch, Stamps Division (through Francis J. Janeczek and Don McDowell): 8,279 stamps, 93 souvenir pages, 42 stamped envelopes, 33 postal cards, 30 souvenir cards, 24 commemorative panels, 13 covers, 13 souvenir Programs, 7 cylinder proofs, and 6 letter sheets of the U.S. (1986.0659); (through Don McDowell): 617 stamps, 30 commemorative panels, 20 covers, 14 souvenir programs, 12 postal cards, 4 souvenir sheets, and 3 aerogrammes (1986.0110); 793 commemorative stamps, 21 first day covers, 21 commemorative panels, 19 souvenir programs, 12 postal cards, and a souvenir card (1987.0134).
United States Lines, Inc. (through Kevin C. O'Rourke): model of the containership American New York, 1982 (1986.0326).
United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC (through Gary Hubbard): poster commemorating the 50th anniversary of the United Steel Workers of America (1987.0384).
United Transportation Union (through Donald R. Carver and Fred A. Hardin): 2 pieces of stationery with the logo of the Railroad Yardmasters of America (1986.0292).
Unknown: 22 U.S. and foreign banknotes (1986.0470); woman's 3-piece dress, 1905-15 (1986.0551); pair of woman's shoes, 1830-50 (1986.0552); l-pfenning piece of the Democratic Republic of Germany, 1968 (1986.0629); Canadian 5-cent piece, 1983 (1986.0708); copper-nickle Swiss franc coin, 1981 (1986.0843); 5 transportation tokens, 1919-22, a medal commemorating Thomas Edison and electric light, 1929, and a medal commemorating the 100th anniversary of Sears & Roebuck and refurbishment of the Statue of Liberty, 1986 (1986.0869); corn sheller and a corn cracker (1987.0224); 2 woman's floral print dresses, 1942 (1987.0240); button, "Be Union/District 65 U.A.W." (1987.0397).
UOP Inc. (through V. Dean Freese): circular protractor (1986.0662).
Chantal and Jan Vagassky: 14 Greek coins, 5th-4th century B.C. (1985.0937).
G. M. Vause: postal card mailed from Wilberforce, Ohio to Otley, Yorkshire, England on August 28, 1900 with 2-cents overseas postage (1987.0146).
Vermont Federal Savings & Loan (through Dorothy J. Sampugna): 3 adding Machines and ribbons (1987.0285); electronic desk calculator manufactured by the National Cash Register Company (1987.0339).
Victor Comptometer Corporation (through A. C. Buehler, Jr.): McCaskey credit register, 1893 (1977.0174).
Victory Drugstore (through Ann Failla): 4 pairs of woman's hosiery, 4 containers of face powder and make-up, box of dinner napkins and a box of facial tissue by Doeskin, bottle of Victory cough balsam, tin of Zip crystals, Schieffelin moth crystals, Camel tire repair kit, and a Bugler cigarette rolling machine with tobacco (1982.0055).
Visiting Nurse Association of Boston Foundation (through Eileen M. Freitag) 4-piece visiting nurse's uniform consisting of a dress, apron, tie, and
379°

<<<Page: 377>>>

bonnet in the original late 19th-century style (1986.0496).
Jeffrey T. Vogel: 15 pieces of Commodore VIC-20 computer hardware with 44 pieces of software, ca. 1979 (1987.0249).
Robert M. Vogel: advertising wood plate of "Colbert's Envelope Manufactory and Printing Office, Philadelphia" from Colton's Atlas of America, ca. 1856 (1987.0075).
Rose C. Vogel: pair of off-white cotton gloves worn by Mrs. Vogel, 1940-55 (1987.0498).
Maria von Matthiessen: collection of 6 black and white photographs titled "The Narcissism of Youth," black and white portrait of Harriet Levine, and a black and white self-portrait, all by Ms. von Matthiessen (1986.0902); 7 black and white portrait photographs by Ms. von Matthiessen (1987.0205).
L. W. Vosloh: brick of East Asian tea used as monetary exchange, 19th-20th centuries (1986.1046).
Comdr. Richard D. Waer, USN: silver Boehm-system flute made by T. Berteling and Company of New York with its original case, early 20th century (198'7. 0133)
Charles L. Wagandt: collection of 190 fabric sample and weaving layout books from W. & J. Dickey & Sons, Oella, Maryland, 1919-72 (1980.0877); collection of 297 documents relating to the administration of the Union Manufacturing Company, Oella, Maryland, 1916-64 (1982.0129).
Charlotte A. and Homer L. Walkup: American Model 4 adding machine used by Mr. Walkup's father and an Allen Wales Model E adding machine used by David D. Lloyd (1986.0894).
Dorothy M. Wallace: black net and lace gown, early 20th century, and a silk and lace petticoat, late 19th century (1986.0438); fragment of an embroidered gold satin ball gown and a fragment of printed silk and cotton fabric (1986.0679).
Susan N. Wallace: 3 blackout window shades made by Clopay Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, 1940-45 (1986.0963).
Janet Wallach: pair of woman's black patent leather pumps with black ribbon bows, 1976 (1986.0942).
Josepha L. Walsh: political cartoon by C. K. Berryman dated June 25, 1938 (21987.0063)) .
Gladys M. Warfield in the name of Thomas Owings Warfield: photographic self-portrait by Edward Steichen (1986.0472).
Senator John W. Warner: round wood and leather ski pole base, 1902-11, found in Antarctica near the site of Capt. Robert F. Scott's base camp in 1973 (1986.0627).
Carol L. and Robert D. Warrington: "Eagle in Canton" 3l-star flag (1985.0739).
Teru Watanabe in memory of Tomoichi Watanabe: 5 military medals, 3 military citations, 2 Red Cross Society of Japan citations, and 2 Red Cross Society of Japan scarves, all awarded to Tomoichi Watanabe for his service in the Russo-Japanese War, 1904-05 (1986.0914).
C. Malcolm Watkins: lidded carved oak box with iron corners, hinges, and lock, probably made in Finland, 1750-1800 (1986.0043); in memory of Lura Woodside Watkins: grand piano, style M, made by Steinway and Sons, New York, 1936 (1985..0935).
George H. Watson: grain shovel (1986.0686).
William S. Webb: medal depicting the heads and names of 39 Presidents and the Presidential Seal made by the Empire Mint, 1981 (1986.0746).
Harris and Rosa Weinstein: pair of size 8 shoe stretchers, 1900-49 (1986.0940).
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Research and Development Center (through John K. Hulm): de-ion circuit breaker, laboratory model of an ignitron

<<<Page: 378>>>

electron tube, and a cut away model of an ignitron electron tube (1980.0743).
The White House (through John E. Hilboldt): plaque given to Robert C. McFarlane of the National Security Council by Eduard Shevardnadze, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the U.S.S.R. in 1985 (1986.0778).
Carolyn Scott White and Michael G. White: pair of man's off-white socks with the word VOTE and a donkey design covering them, made by Mayor Mills of Tarboro, North Carolina for the 1968 Governor's election, which was won by Robert W. Scott (1986.0586).
James J. White III: 71 phonograph records (1986.0642).
Roger B. White: 63 bumper stickers, handouts, pamphlets and documents, a pennant, and a T-shirt, all related to various presidential election campaigns of the 1960s and 1970s (1984.1015); saleman's sample book of The Life and Public Services of James G. Blaine... and Biography of Gen. John A. Logan..., 1884 (1986.0252).
Florence S. and Gladys M. Whitehead: cast iron combination tool patented by Nathan S. Clement of New Britian, Connecticut on March 19, 1867 (1985.0927).
J. W. A. Whitehorne: U.S. Army uniform items including a field cap, windbreaker, raincoat, Allied Forces utility shirt, and a field jacket (1986.0129).
Stanley E. Whiting: 35 phonograph records (1986.0771).
Harry E. Whitman: automobile model which won the First National Award in the Fisher Body Craftsman's Guild Contest, white beret given to the National winner, blue beret given to the state or regional winner, anda scholarship certificate, 1948 (1987.0049).
Leon A. Whitney II: 2 WW II posters, "SPARS, Coast Guard" and "Semper Fidelis, 168th Anniversary” (1985.0765); 13 WW II posters (1985.0776).
Estate of Richard A. Whitney (through Leon A. Whitney II): WW I poster, "Americans All" Honor Roll (1985.0775).
Ann Watt Wiechmann: woman's cape, 1918-20 (1986.0516).
Joan W. Wiefelspuetz in memory of M. Lee White: 2 pieces of embroidered silk net, early 19th century, 2 pieces of silk tulle, late 19th century, a linen bobbin lace, 17th century, and a fancy white braid, 20th century (193.6... 071.2))..
Charles M. Williams: 151 "Bryan Dollar" tokens used in the 1896 and 1900 presidential campaigns of William Jennings Bryan, a part of a die used to strike some of the tokens, and a catalogue by Farran Zerbe (1983.0715).
Grover C. and Josephine B. Williams: silver fork and spoon of French Colonial design, used in Louisiana, 1815-44 (1987.0560).
Dr. Michael R. Williams: 2 magnetic core memories from a Honeywell computer, 2 magnetic core memories from an IBM computer, a magnetic core memory from a GE 115 computer, plug-in unit from a UNIVAC computer, and an intergrated circuit memory board from a Burroughs computer (1987.0466).
Swanee K. Wilson, RN, NAACOG in honor of Ervin E. Nichols, MD, ACOG: 8 models of the uterus showing different stages of pregnancy, a cranioclast, anda chain decapitator (1986.0478).
The Winchester-Thurston School (through Frances G. Hein): Keuffel & Esser classroom demonstration slide rule (1987.0137).
Osborne K. Winslow: 639 photographs, negatives, and color progressives, 140 tools and chemicals, a film about photoengraving, and a copper plate, all related to the career of Mr. Winslow as a photograver for magazines, 1920-70 (1986.0829).
Mrs. Ann Winter: 10 steel engraved prints of presidents of the United States (1987.0242).

<<<Page: 379>>>

Richard Winters: 26 Ku Klux Klan artifacts of the 1960s (1986.0665).
University of Wisconsin, School of Pharmacy (through Prof. Glenn Sonnedecker): set of 7 apothecary coin weights manufactured by Henry Troemer in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, ca. 1920 (1982.0275).
Michael L. Wolfe: pair of cavalry presentation spurs made by Tiffany & Company in 1863 (1987.0234).
Fay Shien Wong: 5-piece uncirculated U.S. coin set, 1982 (1986.0901).
John S. Wood, Jr.: U.S. Army lieutenant's 3-piece evening dress uniform and a pair of shoulder knots worn by John S. Wood, 1912 (1986.0144).
The Rev. David S. Woodworth: portable 2-burner gasoline stove which folds into a carrying case, manufactured by the Coleman Lamp Company and patented in 1924 (1987.0354).
William E. Worthington, Jr.: 3-piece hollow-wire gasoline lighting system made by Knight Light Company of Chicago, ca. 1920 (1987.0202).
Helena E. Wright: drypoint print dated 1977 (1986.0413); photomechanical lithographic print after M. D. H. Keene and a frame (1987.0082); 3 woodcut prints by Lynd Ward (1987.0083); pamphlet, "An Introduction to Carrageenan and Watercolor Marbling" by Paul Maurer and Diane Philippoff Maurer (1987.0126).
Eileen O'Connor Wulf: letter with envelope dated July 31, 1927 written to T. V. O'Connor, Chairman of the U.S. Shipping Board, from David A. Burke aboard the S.S. Leviathan, regarding the institution of ship-to-shore Mail and a photograph of the ship dated August 1, 1927 (1987.0102).
Mrs. George A. Wyeth: woman's ivory and silk fan with gold lace and sequins in its original box, made in France, 1850-74 (1987.0442).
Gary D. Yanker: 112 political and social issue posters and 3 "Famous Dates in History" book covers, early 1970s (1986.1035).
Frank M. Yasechko: paratrooper arm band worn by Mr. Yasechko during WW II (1986.0324).
Arthur K. Yellin in memory of his father, Philip Yellin: test indicator patented by Henry Koch on July 17, 1906 (1987.0047).
W. T. Ylvisaker: silver polo trophy won by Mr. Ylvisaker at the last East-West series held at the Meadowbrook Club of Westbury, New York, 1951 (1986.0595)) .
William E. Young in memory of Frank L. Dumont: single-cylinder marine engine made by the Lockwood-Ash Motor Company of Jackson, Michigan, ca. 1916 (1987.0554).
Henry Zack: baker's lamp (1987.0225).
Hope F. T. Zarensky: pair of Reconstruction Aide collar insignia, 1919 (1986.0283).
David E. Zeitlin: ceramic teapot and cover with a hand-painted black and red scene of a Seated woman inscribed "Solitude is my Choice," ca. 1770, and a ceramic female figure of "Hope," 1790-1810 (1986.1002).
Zenith Electronics Corporation (through John I. Taylor): collection of 49 cathode x-ray tubes, radio tubes, lenses, and related equipment (1985.0556).
Ferne A. Zetty: 29 phonograph records (1986.0624).
Anne B. Zill: 2 puppet posters, a mime troupe poster, and a 1980s Olympics poster (1986.0273).
Rosemary E. Zimmer in memory of Charles C. Zimmer: 14 Railway Express Agency Pins, 2 Air Express pins, an American Express pin, Brotherhood of American Railway Express Employees union pin, and a Wells Fargo pin (1987.0584).
Robert E. Zumwalt: percussion sporting rifle, leather bullet pouch, bullet mold, box of percussion caps, and a powder horn, 1832-1915 (1986.0591).

<<<Page: 380>>>

Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more American Australian Bicentennial Foundation Dr. Edward P. Henderson The Philecology Trust
$10,000 or more All Nippon Airways Dr. and Mrs. Richard H. Benson The Cadillac Fairview Corporation Limited The Cousteau Society, Inc. Mr. Eric Hotung Ralph C. and Kate H. Rinzler Dr. I. Gregory Sohn The International Foundation
$5,000 or more American Cyanamid Corporation Laura Boulton Foundation, Inc. Merck and Company, Inc. Dr. Judith P. Sulzberger Annie Beatrice Wetmore Utah International, Inc.
$1,000 or more Association of Philippine-American Women Dr. Joe W. Begley G. Arthur Cooper Richard Dybas Dr. Kurt Frederiksson Sumner Gerard Foundation MreGe We shart. sd, Mr. Terry L. Humfeld International Cultural Society of Korea Mr. and Mrs. John Johnson JCPDS International Centre for Diffraction Data
$1,000 or more (continued) Shiegeo Kitaoka National Geographic Society Walter P. Preste Mr. Lloyd E. Raport Seoul Art Academy
$500 or more Yoo. Atallah; Ph.D, DAS Bal. Mr. and Mrs. George Collier Dr... Oliver Si. Flint, Jr. Mr. Raymond F. Hasek Joe C. Hayes The Korean Embroidery Council Karl V. Krombein Robert and Judy Lavigne Dr. and Mrs. Jong-Soo Lee National Capital Shell Club Mr. J. W. Van Gorkom Mrs. Catherine H. Walker Jean Davies Wright Kyun G. Sook Yoon Kyung Sug Yoon
$250 or more Dr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Akers and Family Harry F. Bisel Dr. and Mrs. John M. Burns Mr. Chang-won Cho Elizabeth Lynne Gilham Dr. Phyllis T. Johnson Min Kim Korean Embassy No. 2 Dr. and Mrs. Jack D. Lange Werner U. Spitz, M.D. Dr. R. H. Watten Dr. Donald R. Whitehead

<<<Page: 381>>>

Donors to the Collection
Joan B. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Sr.
Frederick McLean Bugher The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation Mrs. Lelia M. Easson Mrs. Louis T. Edwards Mary Richardson Gauthier
Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more CIGNA Foundation ProServ Inc.
$5,000 or more Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton Gallery Place Associates and The Oliver Carr Company
$1,000 or more Barry Bingham, Sr. The Hechinger Foundation The Clarence & Jack Himmel Foundation Chester H. Lasell Robert L. McNeil, Jr. The New York Community Trust Messrs. Jim & Ted Pedas
Mrs. James Burd Peale Green
Dr. Maury Leibovitz Joshua Mostel
Jane S. Murray
Joseph and Rosalyn Newman Lydia de Polo
Mary P. Sears
Janet Gregg Schroeder
$500 or more Herman Perlman
$250 or more Beverly J. Lang Raleighs
Mrs. Samuel Schwartz
Under $250 The Capitol Informer Chlorinda V. Russo G. Douglas Stephens Robert G. Stewart Time-Life Books Inc.
Armard Hammer Foundaticn Cthman Benjellcun
Mrs. Evangeline Bruce
The Dillen Furd
Demino Farms
Dorothy Jordan Chacwick Fund Sareh G. Exst2in
Mrs. Jchnscn Garrett
Richara £. Gray
Gind Feurdcaticn
Iccyves
Frenklin H. Kissner
MacArchur Feurndcaticn
MepilO21 (Csrecratzcn
New Yor Lancmarks Conservency Persico Foundaticn
David Reckefeailer

<<<Page: 382>>>

Donors to the National Orchid Collection
Mary MacMartin 26 species and hybrids Estate of Tom Sodestrom 1 species Hollin Hills Orchid Society 2 species
Donors to the Trees of Christmas Ornament Collection
Brandywine River Museum Volunteers 1,100 ornaments for the Christmas Tree "1984 White House Christmas Tree.”
Donors to the Library Collection
Barbara Pitschel 1 book, (1987 Thesis) on Beatrix Jones Farrand Alice Moore 1 book, (1885) on plants Gilbert Gude 2 catalogues, (1939) on the A. Gude Sons Company Nurseries Mrs. William Curtin 10 books, (1938-1971) on gardening Ikebana International: Washington, D. C. Chapter 3 books, (1973) on the Ichiyo School Dallas, Texas Chapter 2 books, (1950) on the Saga School
and general Ikebana Donors to the Artifact Collection Akihiro Kasuya 4 framed photographs Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more $10,000 or more Folger Foundation Honoré Throne Wamsler
$1,000 or more Mary L. Ripley
OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS Donors of Financial Supsore
Organization of American States: Funds for two Office of Museum Programs/On Site workshops in Trinidad and Costa Rica.
W.K. Kellogg Foundation: Grant for programs to "Expand the Educational Influence of Museums."

<<<Page: 383>>>

OFSTiCE OF FOLALIFE PROGRAMS Denors of ‘Financial Suppor:
$100,000 or more Michigan Department of State Michigan Sesquicentennial Commission
$10,000 or more Music Performance Trust Funds United Auto Workers
Donors of In Kind Support
D.C. Commission on the Arts and Humanities Dunkley International, Inc.
Escanaba and Lake Superior Railroad
FNT Industries
Department of Horticulture, University of Maryland Michigan State University Museum
University of Michigan Flint Library
North Carolina Arts Council, Folklife Section North Carolina Department of Agriculture Texas Department of Agriculture
John Zelenka Evergreen Nursery Inc.
Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more $5,000 or more Times Mirror Merrill Lynch Annie Laurie Aitken Charitable Trust AFL=CLO $10,000 or more $1,000 or more Gannett Foundation/Gannett Co., Inc. Joseph H. Hazen Foundation Ford Foundation A. Smith Bowman Distillery, Inc. The Lawyers Co-operative Publishing Saul Poliak Publishing Company/BancroftThe Dillon Fund Whitney Barrick W. Groom
Charles F. Kettering Foundation Siemens Capital Corporation Education Outreach Funds Beazley Foundation
Estate of Arthur M. Sackler
rus) | Q

<<<Page: 384>>>

Ronald M. Costell, MD
Hechinget Foundation
The Washington Post
Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Company Mrs. George Cotton Smith Adams Candace Adelson
Alcoa Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Edward K. Aldworth Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton The Allbritton Foundation David W. Alling
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Alsdorf Arthur G. Altschul
American Express Company American Security Bank
Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.
Leonard E. B. Andrews Anonymous
The Art Lovers' League, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. William E. Arthur Mrs. Douglas Auchincloss
Dr. and Mrs. George Baer
The Baltimore Bulletin
Mrs bs Goibannerot;e wr. Gwendolyn Baptist
Mr. and Mrs. Dwight H. Barnes Mr. and Mrs. Will Barnet
The Barra Foundation, Inc. Anne T. and Robert M. Bass
Mr:.. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass Mrs. Sid -‘R. Bass
The Bass Foundation
Bechtel Foundation
Mary C. Belin
Bell Atlantic Corporation
Dr. Ruth Benedict
Munir P. Benjenk
Berger Foundation
Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman
Theresa Bernstein
Robert Hunt Berry
William McC. Blair, Jr.
Robert O. and Sylvia Blake

<<<Page: 385>>>

Edward M. Block
Huntington T.. Block
The Boston Company, Inc.
Boston Safe Deposit and Trusts Company Mr. and Mrs. John G. Bowes
Brady Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Brady, Jr. Peter M. Brant
Gerald J. Brody
C..E. Brooks
Harry A. Brooks
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Brough
The Brown Foundation
David Brown
J. Carter Brown
Nicholas Brown
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. Mrs. Ernest R. Bryan
Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr.
Philip W. Buchen
The Budd Company
Mrs. Ella Poe Burling
Barbara Rosalyn Butts
William G. Byrnes
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation William N. Cafritz
Miriam L. Cameron, M.D.
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S. Campbell, Ret. Florence J. Carlile Fund
Oliver TT. Carr, Jr.
Amon G. Carter Foundation
Carter Hawley Hale
Carroll J. Cavanagh
Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund
Miles L. Chappell
Margaret J. Charlton
Chevy Chase Savings & Loan, Inc. Blair Childs
Julius Chroscicki
Estate of Valerie Lee Churchill
The Circle of the National Gallery of Art Richard J. Coffey
Melvin S. Cohen
Collectors Committee
Miles C. Collier
Armida B. Colt
Community Foundation of Greater Washington, Inc.
Catherine M. Conover
Donald Cook
Gordon Cook
Thomas Jefferson Coolidge IV

<<<Page: 386>>>

Jack Coopersmith
Jack Cowart
Edwin Li. Cox
The Marshall B. Coyne Foundation Douglas S. Cramer
Bar eM Craig:Jr.
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc. Catherine G. Curran
Madeleine R. Cury
Rita M. Cushman
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart C. Davidson John B. Davidson
The Arthur Vining Davis Foundations Imre de Cholnoky
Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. De Costa Elisabeth de Picciotto
Katherine W. Dennis
Cortlandt S. Dietler
Jane Dillenberger
Mr. and Mrs. C. Douglas Dillon Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Dittmer DM Foundation
Mary T. Doben
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Donnell Lamia Doumato
The Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Dupree James T. Dyke
Dynalectron Corporation
Robert B. Egelston
Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr. Mrs. Charles W. Engelhard
The Charles Engelhard Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans Thomas M. Evans, Jr.
Exxon Corporation
Frank and Jeannette Eyerly William Stamps Farish Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Farquhar
The Fay Improvement Company Elise Ferber
Donald M. Feuerstein
Ruth Fine
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone Angela B. Fisher
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher Annelise and William H. G. Fitzgerald J. Michael Flanigan
William J. Flather III
Emily L. Foley
The Folger Fund
The Ford Foundation

<<<Page: 387>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Ben J. Fortson
The Foundation Center
Domenique Fourcade
Arnold D. Frese Foundation
Charles Rahn Fry
The Fuller Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger
John R. Gaines
The JoAnn and Julian Ganz, Jr. Foundation Trust Joseph A. Gatto
Dr. and Mrs. Webster Gelman
Estate of Leola S. Gerhart
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation Morris and Frances Gewirz Foundation, Inc. Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. Giddens
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Gidwitz
Helen F. Goeser
Myrtle B. Goldstein
The Goldstone Foundation
Herb Gordon Nissan
Katharine Graham
Stephen Graham
C. Boyden Gray
Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mary W. Greenway
GTE Corporation
Guest Services, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. George Gund III
Leo S. Guthman
Miriam and Peter Haas Fund
Alphons J. and Muriel F. Hackl
Mack E. Haddock
Jane Allison Halaby
Mr. and Mrs. Prentis Cobb Hale
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Halff, Jr.
Armand Hammer
The Armand Hammer Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Hampton
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes
Mrs. Clarence B. Hanson
The W. Averell and Pamela C. Harriman Foundation The Very Reverend and Mrs. Charles Harris The John A. Hartford Foundation
John Davis Hatch
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Hauslohner
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen Hechinger Foundation
John M. Heckler
Mrs. Rudolf J. Heinemann
Henry J. and Drue E. Heinz Foundation

<<<Page: 388>>>

Mary Hemingway *
The Henfield Foundation
Claude E. Hermann
Susan Morse Hilles
The Margaret Mellon Hitchcock Foundation Mr. and Mrs. George C. Hixon
Oveta Culp Hobby
Irene Hochman
David F. Hoffman
H. Clay Hofheimer II
Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust Anne Horan
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz Lubumir Hromadka
Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Hudson, Jr. Carlisle H. Humelsine
George H. Hurwitz Enterprises
The George Hyman Construction Company IBM Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Ireland III
Mr. and Mrs. John N. Irwin II Ittleson Foundation, Inc.
George and Janet Jaffin
The George F. Jewett, Jr. 1965 Trust Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson
Mrs. J. Seward Johnson
Samuel C. Johnson
Ruth and Jacob Kainen
Dr. and Mrs. William Kalchoff
Ann Claire Kaufman
Edward George Kaufman
George M. and Linda H. Kaufman
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kellen Franklin Kelly
The Honorable Randolph A. Kidder and Mrs. Kidder The Elbrun and Peter Kimmelman Foundation Mr. and Mrs. David S. Kirkland
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Kirstein Knight Foundation
Seymour H. Knox
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod
G. Kolbe
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Susan C. Kudlow
Dr. and Mrs. Roy Lambert
William G. Land
Dr. and Mrs. Michael F. Lapadula
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham
The Lauder Foundation
Leonard and Evelyn Lauder Fund
* deceased

<<<Page: 389>>>

Ronald S. Lauder Fund
Alexander M. Laughlin
Greta Brown Layton Charitable Trust Boris Leavitt
Joan Lees
Mr. and Mrs. Judd Leighton
Antje Lemke
Mr. and Mrs. John O. Lenaghan
Fern Letnes
The Sydney and Frances Lewis Foundation Denise Lindner *
Seymour Lipton *
Mr. and Mrs. Nash M. Love
Alison Luchs
Asbjorn R. Lunde
Edward E. MacCrone Charitable Trust Jane C. MacElree
The Magnus Foundation of Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kline Eunice C. Madison
Hayward F. and Beatrice G. Manice Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Mansell
BLo A. G. Manton
Roger H. Marijnissen
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Marin, Jr.
The Marks Foundation, Inc.
Mars Foundation
Maryland House and Garden Pilgrimage Jane S. and Arthur K. Mason
Dr. Thomas A. Mathews
Edward J. Mathias
Armen Matossian
The May Stores Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick R. Mayer Sameeran Y. McAlee
Mr. and Mrs. John A. McCone
Mrs. Eugene McDermott
Robert A. McNeil
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Paul Mellon
The R. K. Mellon Family Foundation Dr. Georges and Dr. Lois de Menil Katharine H. Metcalf
The Honorable Charles A. Meyer Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation Robert and Jane Meyerhoff
Estate of Mark J. Millard
Mr. and Mrs. G. William Miller Judith H. Miller
* deceased

<<<Page: 390>>>

Barbara B. Millhouse
Mobil Oil Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Moncrief Robert Moody Foundation
Barbara B. Moore
Mrs. O. Ray Moore
Sidney C. Moosnick
Rex Moser
Franklin D. Murphy
John Naisbitt
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond D. Nasher Mr. and Mrs. John U. Nef
Hugo V. Neuhaus, Jr.
Neutrogena Corporation
The New England
Mr. and Mrs. William V. P. Newlin New York Stock Exchange Foundation Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.
Mrs. P. Roussel Norman
Northern Telecom, Inc.
NS&T Bank
John O'Brien
Mr. and Mrs. Peter O'Donnell, Jr. Ralph E. Ogden Foundation
Olin Corporation Charitable Trust Trudi Olivetti
Margaret D. Olsen
William B. O'Neal
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin S. Osher
The Overbrook Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Duncan S. Owen, Jr. Pacific Telesis Foundation William S. Paley
Alexander P. Papamarkou
Estate of Betty Papayianis Parking Management, Inc.
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Lynne and Gary Penrith
Perpetual American Bank, F.S.B. Ruth Philbrick
Philip Morris Incorporated
Mr. and Mrs. Christopher H. Phillips Mr. and Mrs. Neil Phillips Vincenzo Pialorsi
Mr. and Mrs. Sumner Pingree III Morris J. Pinto
Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky
Mrs. John A. Pope
Micaela J. Portilla
Potomac Electric Power Company Mrs. AL Ns] Pritzker
Mr. and Mrs. Jay Pritzker
Mr. and Mrs. Lenard Quinto General Dillman A. Rash
Reader's Digest Association

<<<Page: 391>>>

Republic National Bank of New York
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart A. Resnick
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Resor
Padre Domenico Restante
Rhodes College
Adelaide Riggs
The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C.
Murry and Selma Robinson
James E. Robison Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rogers
Rosenthal Automotive Organization
Edith G. Rosenwald
Arthur Ross Foundation
The Mark Rothko Foundation
Diane Russell
Chlorinda V. Russo
Jill and Arthur M.* Sackler
Marie C. Sadd
Russell Sale
William R. Salomon and Virginia F. Salomon Family Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Fayez Sarofim
B. Francis Saul Co.
Thorndike and Janet Saville, Jr.
L. Ronald Scheman
Mr. and Mrs. Benno C. Schmidt
The Schreiber Family Foundation
Hannelore B. Schulhof
Florence and John Schumann Foundation
Shell Oil Company
Clyde E. Shorey, Jr.
Silverstein Family Foundation
Mrs. John Farr Simmons
William K. Simpson
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Singer
Carolyn Skelly
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill
Mrs. Gerard C. Smith
Joshua P. Smith
Maria Petschek Smith
Robert H. and Clarice Smith
Staar Saanty, inc.
Rudolph Sobernheim
Mr. and Mrs. Roger P. Sonnabend
Sotheby's
Southwestern Bell Foundation
Alice Steiner
Frank Stella
Ruth Carter Stevenson
Countess A. Szapary
Taggart, Jorgenson & Putnam
* deceased

<<<Page: 392>>>

Sheldon J. Tashman
Prentiss Taylor
William Griffith Thomas
Violet S. Thoron
Tame: we AGe
Estate of William L. Topf, Jr. Eleanor H. Trowbridge
Republic of Turkey
Unilever United States, Inc. The Union Labor Life Insurance Company USAir
Bo Vahlne
Margaret van Schaack
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Vaughn, Jr. Alexander Vershbow
L. and Beatrix von Hoffmann Anne M. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks Walker, Jr. John Walker
Mallory and Diana H. Walker Lila Acheson Wallace/National Gallery of Art Fund Wallace Funds
Mr. and Mrs. F. Howard Walsh, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. James N. Walton Virginia S. Warner
Washington Gas Light Company Mrs. Paul L. Wattis
Patricia M. Watts
P. Devers Weaver
Malcolm H. Wiener
Mr. and Mrs. Keith Wellin Perry H. Wheeler
Arthur K. Wheelock
Della Evie White
Charles S. Whitehouse
John R. and Suzanne S. Whitmore Peter A. B. Widener
Malcolm H. Wiener
Mrs. William H. Wildhack
John Wilmerding
A. S. Wilsey
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson Anne B. Windfohr
Christopher With
Alan F. Wohlstetter
George M. Wood
Susan M. Wood
Mrs. William Wood Prince
Ian Woodner
Stanley Woodward
World Monuments Fund
Eleanora M. Worth
Wyeth Endowment
Nurettin Yardimici

<<<Page: 393>>>

Appendix 9
Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1987
The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support the
Institution through generous annual contributions. Such participation, in conjunction with special gifts from the members, enables the Institution to pursue specific projects
and broader research, acquisition, preservation, and education efforts which might
otherwise not be possible.
The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the loyal and thoughtful
support of the Contributing Membership. Sponsoring Members ($300) and Sustaining
Members ($600) are listed below.
Mr. and Mrs. David C. Acheson Mr. Roger S. Ahlbrandt
Mr. Thomas Aldredge
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Allen
Ms. Marcia Y. Almassy
Mr. G. J. Andrews
Dr. and Mrs. Henry D. Angelino Mr. Keith W. Antcliff
Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes Honorable Anne L. Armstrong Mr. D. F. Attaway
Mrs. John Paul Austin
Mrs. Theodore Babbitt
Mr. Gordon N. Backlund
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Bailey, Jr. Mr. William W. Baker
Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Ball, Jr. Mr. Jean L. Barker
Mr. Lee Barnes
Ms. Janine F. Barre
Mr. and Mrs. Jay Barton
Mrs. W. P. Battell
Mr. Jeffrey D. Bauman
Dr. David R. Bayless
Mr. Ralph Beals
Mr. W. H. Beardsley
Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman
Mrs. . Alexandra Blackhurst . and ww G.e'N. “Blair
. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair Mr.
Charles Beer
and Mrs.
E. E. Benedict
and Mrs. Seymour Bernett Harry M. Bickford Anthony P. Biemans
J. Birdsall
Miss Eliza H. Bishop
Hill Blackett
Mrs.
Robert E. Black
and Mrs. David H. Blumberg Honorable Lindy Boggs
Honorable and Mrs. Edward P. Boland Mr. J. A. Boorman
Dr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs. Mrs. Constance T. Boyd
and and and and and and and and
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
William G. Bowen
Mitchell T. Bowie
Jay M. Boyd
Robert A. Brechler Robert C. Breckenridge Karl K. Breit
Leo V. Brenna Clemens B. Bribitzer Stephen B. Brickel Robert Brody

<<<Page: 394>>>

Mrs. Arlene A. Brown
Ms. Patricia L. Brown
Ms. Ruth L. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Burgee Honorable Warren E. Burger
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Burnham, Sr. Honorable and Mrs. George H. W. Bush . Nicholas Bush
. and Mrs. Mark J. Carroll
. and Mrs. Bruce F. Carson
. and Mrs. Anderson Carter Ms. Lily Marie Carter
Honorable Elford A. Cederberg Dr. William M. Chardack
Mr. Harry R. Charles, Jr.
Mrs. Harold W. Cheel
Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett Mrs. Charles Clark
Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin
Mr. and Mrs. Julius Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Cole
Miss Vivian G. Conklin Honorable and Mrs. Silvio O. Conte Mark E. Cooper
and Mrs. Frederick D. Cornelius and Mrs. Ralph J. Coselli Curtis W. Cox
and Mrs. David M. Crabtree and Mrs. Earle M. Craig, Jr. Joyce Creamer
Eugene E. Crockett
and Mrs. Joseph William Cuddy Robert D. Cunningham
Ms. Mae E. Dahl
Captain and Mrs. R. L. Daniels Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis Mrs. Jerry R. Davis
Mr. John F. Davis
Mrs. Alva A. Dawson
Mrs. Walter L. Day, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Gregory W. Dean Ms. Lois M. Delaney
Captain and Mrs. Victor Delano and Mrs. Arthur F. Dellheim Geert M. Deprest
Mary J. Deutschbein
. Hilton B. Dickerson
. Douglas Dillon
and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr. J. G. Dobry
David Donovan
D. D. Dowling
and Mrs. David C. Dressler
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Drummeter, Jr. Ms. Mary Jane C. Due
Ms. Joanne E. Dumene
Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr. Mr. A. Dzigas
Mr. Eric L. Eakin
Mr. Robert Edelmann
Mr. Peter D. Ehrenhaft
Miss Babs Eisman
Mr. F. H. Ellenberger
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Emlet
Mr. Ostrom Enders
Colonel Charles O. Eshelman
Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein Nicholas M. Ferriter
Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Fisher, III Mr. Gordon J. Flesch
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph B. Folladori, Jr. Mr. Philip E. Forest
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Foster
Thiry Foundation
Mr. Henry W. Franklin
Mr. Cary J. Frieze
Honorable J. William Fulbright Captain and Mrs. J. E. Galloway Honorable E. J. Garn
Dr. and Mrs. Murray Gell-Mann Mr. Peter L. Geller
Dr. William H. Gerber
Miss Helen W. Giacobine
Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Glaser
Dr. and Mrs. Leonard M. Glassman Dr. Sanford A. Glazer
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Gleim Honorable Robert F. Goheen Colonel and Mrs. Julius Goldstein Honorable and Mrs. Barry Goldwater Mrs. Seabury S. Gould, IV
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen H. Grant Mrs. Earle Gray
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green
Mrs. Judith Greene
Mr. and Mrs. Crawford Greenewalt Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg
Mr. Barron K. Grier
Mr. and Mrs. William P. Groves Mr. George T. Guernsey, IV
Mrs. Florence L. Gussman
Mr. Ernest T. Guy
Dr. Lee P. Haacker
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Haas Mr. Allen R. Halper
Ms. Morella R. Hansen

<<<Page: 395>>>

. Irving B. Harris
. Leslie S. Harrold
Caryl P. Haskins
and Mrs. John Heard
Arthur Hebert
and Mrs. Felder F. Heflin Frederick H. Heierding
and Mrs. Donald E. Henderson and Mrs. Robert M. Henry and Mrs. John Dean Herman and Mrs. S. O. Hessler Richard F. Hewett Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Hinton
SS RS SSS SES oe
Mr. and Mrs. A. Sidney Holderness, Jr. Colonel and Mrs. Harry C. Holloway Mr. Gregory Hopfer
Mrs. Ruth Housek
Dr. and Mrs. John H. Hoyert
Mrs. W. C. Huffman
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes
Mr. Richard H. Hulit
Mr. and Mrs. Carlisle H. Humelsine Dr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey
. Rollo E. Jacobs, Jr.
. William P. Jambor, Jr.
. Ernest S. Johnston
and Mrs. Richard E. Jones
. Walter Keating
and Mrs. George A. Kelser, Jr. and Mrs. Kenneth E. Kerle
s. Juliet F. Kidney
. William W. King
Cc. D. Kinney
and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby
and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer Ms. Anne Knowles
Ms. Jane E. Kosa
Mr. Albert P. Kramer
Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar
Mr. Stanley J. Kuliczkowski
Dr. M. Kuppusami
Mrs. E. N. Laboyteaux
Honorable and Mrs. Marion Ladwig Mr. William R. Lamb
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Lammerding Mr. James H. Landers, Jr.
Mr. Richard F. Langston
Ms. Agatha Larson
Dr. Jack M. Layton
Mr. Sperry Lea
Miss A. K. Lee
Mrs. Florence J. Lee
Mr. T. °C. Lee
Mr. and Mrs. George J. Lehner Mr. and Mrs. Elmore Leonard Mrs. Lawrence S. Lesser
Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield
Mr. Robert J. Lockridge
Mr. Joseph R. Lorence
Miss Doris J. Lothrop
Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Love
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Ludwick
Mr. La Rue R. Lutkins
Dr. and Mrs. George B. Mackaness Mrs. William P. Macones
Mr. H. L. Mahoney, III Honorable George H. Mahon
Ms. Helen J. Malmstead Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. William K. Malone Mr. E. Mandac
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Mandil
Mr. Robert A. Marmon
Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. Glenn W. Mayer Mr. and Mrs. Gordon W. McBride Mr. Donald E. McCallister
Mr. Jack H. McCreery
Mr. and Mrs. Clayton McCuistion Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Barnabas McHenry
Mr. Ralph W. McIntire
Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean Mr. James A. McNeese
Mr. and Mrs. Marcus Mehtonen Mr. Benjamin T. Meintzer, Sr. Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Melville Mrs. Rose Menz
Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr.
Mr. Paul D. Meyer
Ms. Carla Michaels
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone Colonel and Mrs. James E. Miller Mr. Warren G. Miller
Honorable Norman Y. Mineta Honorable William E. Minshall Ms. Laura A. Mitchell
Colonel and Mrs. Robert O. Mitchell Ms. M. Miyamoto
Mrs. Ann K. Morales
Honorable Robert B. Morgan
Dr. W. Dickson Moss, III Honorable and Mrs. Frank E. Moss Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan
Miss Janet H. Murray
Mr. John M. Murray
Mr. Gary A. Murrell
Mr. and Mrs. Ward R. Neely

<<<Page: 396>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce C. Netschert Mr. Scott Newton
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Nickel
Mr. Allen Nixon
Mr. William P. O’Brien Inclinator Company of California Ms. R. Ohara
Mrs. Alfred J. Olmo
Mrs. John Omaster
Mr. Steve Ott
Mrs. Leah H. Owen
Mr. James Pastore
Mr. William R. Patterson
Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Peer Honorable Claiborne Pell
Mr. J. Roy Pennell, Jr.
Mrs. Jackman Pfouts
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Phillips Mr. W. M. Piatt, III
Mr. Zigmund J. Podell
Dr. Marjorie P. Pollack
Mr. Paul E. Pontius
Ms. Doris D. Poole
Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Price, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Melville J. Price Dr. Don W. Printz
Dr. Conrad W. Raker
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence W. Randall Mr. Michael F. Reagan
Ms. Nina Belle Redditt
Mr. Thomas M. Reed Mr. and Mrs. William B. Reese Honorable William H. Rehnquist
and Mrs. J. Donald Reilly Frank M. Reynolds
and Mrs. Charles S. Richards William W. Richardson Frederick W. Richmond Daniel M. Ricker, Jr.
and Mrs. R. C. Riggle
J. Jerome Rinaldi
Mary M. Roberts
Nancy J. Robertson
and Mrs. George A. Robeson, Jr. L. A. Roepcke
and Mrs. Robert W. Root
. Anton H. Rosenthal
Ray W. Rosevear
. John J. Ross
and Mrs. L. Rothschild
. and Mrs. H. J. Rowe
Mrs. William E. Royer
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo
Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr.
Ms. Louise Sagalyn
Mr. and Mrs. Frank P. Sanders Honorable James R. Sasser
Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr. Ms. Claudia A. Sawyer Honorable and Mrs. James H. Scheuer Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Schreyer Mr. D. L. Schroeder
Honorable Hugh Scott
Mr. James J. Scott
Mr. Sol Seltzer
Mr. and Mrs. Harold A. Serr Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Seubert Mr. Theodore J. Shively
Dr. Stefan Shrier
Dr. and Mrs. Lionel J. Skidmore Mrs. Eileen S. Slack
Dr. Harvey C. Slocum, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small Mrs. Richard K. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. W. Y. Smith
Mrs. Roger Squire
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Stanton Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens Mr. and Mrs. William O. Stewart Dr. L. Dow Strader,..Jr.
Mr. Jeffrey Sturgess
Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger
Mr. Allen D. Thomas
Ms. Arlene K. Thomashow
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey C. Thomas Mr. and Mrs. William S. Thomas Ms. Sylvia Marie Thompson
Dr. John L. Thornton
Mrs. B. W. Thoron
Mr. George S. Trees, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald O. Tucker Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Turner, III Mr. John H. Turner
Mrs. Jean A. Twitchell
Dr. Emily A. Ulmer
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Ulrich Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Valencourt, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Gordon A. Volkers Miss Maria C. Volpe
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis C. Wachs
Mr. George W. Walburn
Mr. Theodore H. N. Wales
Mr. Robert Walker
Mrs. Jocelyn M. Wallace
Ms. Jean W. Wall
Mr. and Mrs. Frank S. Walters

<<<Page: 397>>>

Mr. P. Devers Weaver Honorable and Mrs. James E. Webb Mrs. R. K. Wenzelgall
Colonel! and Mrs. Grover C. White, Jr.
Dr. John P. Whiteley
Mrs. B. A. Whitmarsh
Ms. Mary Wibel
Mr. Warren K. Wilhelm
Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox Mrs. Elizabeth M. Williams
Mr. James A. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Byrle M. Abbin Dr. J. Scott Abercrombie, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. William Ackerman Mr. Davey L. Adams, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Adams Dr. Samuel W. Adams
Mr. and Mrs. B. R. Adelman Mr. Howard Adler
Mrs. Barbara Jean Ageno
Mr. T. L. Albertson
Mr. Walter Alber
Mr. P. Albiez
Ms. Hope Aldrich
Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Alexander, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Alexander Mrs. Lynne L. Alfieri
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Allbert Mr. Charlies D. Allen
Mr. Ethan Allen
Ms. Katherine F. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Allen Mr. Steven J. Allen
Mr. Thomas Roy Allen
Mr. James H. Allison
Mrs. Carolyn Alper
Mr. and Mrs. Donald F. Ames Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson Mr. J. Donald Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Paul B. Anderson Mr. Arthur Andraitis
Dr. George C. Anison
Ms. Rose C. Anthony
Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz Miss Marcia Ann Appel
Miss Marie G. Argana
Mr. R. Arkin
Mr. J. Reid Williamson
Ms. Pauline E. Williman
Mrs. John M. Willits
Mrs. Louise W. Willson
Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff
Dr. Sheila Z. Wood
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley Honorable Sidney R. Yates
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Zitter
Mrs. E. Armstrong
. William D. Armstrong
. and Mrs. V. H. Arnold
. and Mrs. W. S. Atherton
. Jean M. Auel
. Dean D. Aulick
. and Mrs. Ray Awtrey
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Baca Mr. and Mrs. David A. Baerncopf Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Bahan Mrs. Virginia B. Baker
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Balfour Dr. Mark E. Ballinger
Mr. Fred C. Ballman
Mr. and Mrs. George R. Ballowe Captain and Mrs. Stuart M. Ball Farmers State Bank
Mrs. Delphine B. Banko
Mr. George L. Barbour
Mr. Michael Barczak
Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld
Mr. and Mrs. Allen E. Barlow Dr. and Mrs. Herbert M. Barnard Mr. and Mrs. Dwight H. Barnes Mrs. Earl W. Barnes
Mr. Andrew Barr
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Barrow Mr. Richard L. Barr
Captain Celia Barteau
. and Mrs. Art Bartlett
and Mrs. Charles W. Bash . Robert D. Baynes
and Mrs. Anthony J. Bazza Barbara Purse Beach
Mrs. Lloyd P. Beachy
Mr. Donald R. Bean

<<<Page: 398>>>

Mr. John W. Bean
Mr. R. Gifford Beaton
Mr. John R. Beaver
Mr. Allan Beckanstin
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Becker Mr. Eugene H. Beck
Honorable and Mrs. Berkley Bedell Dr. T. C. Bedwell
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Bender
Mrs. Linda B. Bender
Ms. Marguerite Bender
Dr. and Mrs. Richard W. Benjamin
Honorable and Mrs. W. Tapley Bennett,
Mrs. Harriet F. Benson
Ms. Marie Bergmann
Dr. Harold Berman
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Bermant Mr. John A. Bernard
Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Jules Bernstein Mrs. Carol P. Berry
Dr. William R. Bertelsen
Ms. Margaret Bethany
Miss E. I. Beyer
Mr. John A. Biddle
Mr. Joseph B. Bidwell
Mr. Howard M. Bingham
Mr. William S. Birdseye
Captain and Mrs. H. Harold Bishop Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander F Black Mrs. Deane M. Black
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black Mr. and Mrs. Floyd F. Blair Mr. James Blaser
Mr. James B. Blinkoff
Mrs. Edna F. Blum
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon H. Blume Ms. Enola V. Bode
Mr. David Bodycombe
Dr. George P. Bogumill
Mr. Clifton W. Boots
Mr. Christian E. Born
Dr. Antonio Bosch
Mr. Robert M. Bosma
Mrs. T. Botsford
Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini
Dr. and Mrs. Maxwell Boverman Mr. George C. W. Bowles
Mrs. Robert M. Boyd
Mr. and Mrs. Alton Boyer
Dr. Norman Boyer
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Braden Miss Eugenie R. Bradford
392.
Mrs. Anna E. Bradley
Mrs. Helen M. Brandt
Mr. James Brannan
Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantley Mr. William W. Bray
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Bremerman, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Gene C. Brewer Mr. and Mrs. John F. Breyer, Jr. Mr. Robert L. Bridges
Mr. Ronald C. Britt
Mr. Richard Brockman
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Brodie Mr. Jeffrey R. Broido
Colonel Colleen L. Brooks
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Bross Mr. Walter C. Brower Ms. Anita H. Brown Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Brown, II Mr. Lawrence D. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Brown
Mr. and Mrs. E. Edward Bruce Ms. Deborah C. Brudno
Mr. Steven Brummel
Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Brundige Ms. Alice S. Buch
Mr. William H. Buchanan
Mrs. Cora S. Buell
Mrs. W. H. Burchfield
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Burdeshaw Mr. James M. Burger
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Burkart Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks
Lieutenant Colonel and Mrs. Robert M.
Ms. Anne Burns
Mrs. Laura W. Burr
Mr. and Mrs. Philip S. Burr Miss Edna-Lea Burruss
. and Mrs. Glenn F. Burton . and Mrs. Edward J. Bush . and Mrs. James T. Bush
. R. L. Butler, Jr.
S. A. Cacciatore
and Mrs. William M. Cahn, Jr. Mr. Donald A. Caldwell
Mr. Toxey H. Califf
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Draper Campbell Miss Helen R. Cannon
Mr. Philip L. Cantelon
Mr. Albert I. Cardiff
Ms. Phyllis H. Carey
Mr. Joseph Carper
Ms. Christine K. Carrico
Ms. Martha A. Carr, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Carson
eeeee 6
Burnham

<<<Page: 399>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten Colonel and Mrs. Douglas H. Carter John J. Cashmire
. Sebastino J. Castro
and Mrs. James E. Caudill B. R. Cayward
M. H. Chamberlain
and Mrs. J. B. Chapman and Mrs. Clifford S. Charles and Mrs. Charles W. Cheek Henry S. Chenault, Jr.
and Mrs. Boris E. Cherney Bernard P. Chewning
B. Miller Childers
Jerry L. Childers
John Childs
Wah G. Chin
Everett N. Ciccone
Angelo Cicolani
John C. Cini
George Clark
H. Lawrence Clark
Sylvia M. Clark
William Whitney Clark
and Mrs. Le Roy D. Claycomb Fred Clements
and Mrs. W. H. Clement
B:, Fa<Cloud
. Stephanie K. Coakley
and Mrs. Charles F. Coates William H. Cochrane
Jack M. Coe
and Mrs. Walter W. Coffman Linda L. Cogswell
Mrs. Helen H. Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace M. Cohen Mrs. Brenda K. Colasanti
Mr. Addison D. Cole
Captain and Mrs. Gerald L. Cole Mr. and Mrs. Curtis U. Coleman Mrs. Jeanne Collier
Mr. and Mrs. T. Clyde Collins, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. Collyer Mr. William L. Coman
Miss Bertita E. Compton
Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Conant Mrs. Herman Cone, Jr.
Mr. Steven S. Conner
Mr. Charles W. Consolvo
Mrs. Camille L. Cook
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Cookson Mr. Thomas Cook
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Cooney, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. William L. Coon Ms. Janet B. Cooper
. John N. Cooper
. and Mrs. Thomas W. Coppock . Janis M. Coray
Henry G. Corey
David J. Cornell
and Mrs. George L. Cornell Walter H. Corson
and Mrs. Robert Costello
and Mrs. C. Cotteleer
A. Cotts
H. M. Coulson
M. Coursey
. J. Harry Covington
Miss Mary L. Cox
Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Creede Mr. Wilmer H. Cressman
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore R. Crom Ms. Kathryn M. Crossgrove Mrs. Richard S. Cross
Mr. David Crow Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr
. Cornelius J. Crowley . Wellington W. Cummer . Charles S. Curran > den Gor Cutler . Roy Cutler Mrs. Richard M. Cutts Mr. and Mrs. A. W. D’Ambrosio Miss Margaret M. Dahm Mr. Terry G. Dallas Mr. Kevin B. Dalton Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Dalton Friar Felix Daprato Mr. L. Randall Daspit Dr. T. G. Daughtridge Mrs. A. Davis Mr. John E. Davis Mr. Oscar H. Davis Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward Day Mr. and Mrs. William J. Dean Mr. Mel L. Decker Mr. James L. Deegan Ms. Judith B. Deich Mr. Marvin Dekelboum Mrs. G. F. Dekeyser Mr. and Mrs. Ben T. Delahay Ms. Margaret Delk Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Deming Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio Ms. Danna Denning Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Denzler, Jr. Mrs. N. J. Detor Mrs. Laura L. Devine

<<<Page: 400>>>

Mrs. T. T. Dewolf Ms. Ruth E. Dewton Dr. and Mrs. Paul F. Dickens, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Dickerson
Mrs. Robert L. Dick
. Robert Dickstein
. J. E. Diegelman
. and Mrs. James Dietz
. L.A Dietz
. and Mrs. William E. Dixon . Keith A. Dobbins
s. Charles G. Dodge
Mrs. Walter W. Doescher
. Gerald P. Doherty
N. L. Doligalski
. and Mrs. H. R. Dolstra
. Mark S. Donahue
s. Lloyd Donant
and Mrs. D. A. Doran John T. Dorrance, Jr. James A. Dorsch
. Joyce N. Dortch
Alden Lowell Doud Joseph F. Douglas
Karl Douma
Richard G. Doyen
J. William Drach
and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage Imogene S. Driscoll
and Mrs. Irenee Du Pont, Jr. Russell F. Dubes
s. Albert Dudgeon
and Mrs. David A. Duff and Mrs. Walter W. Duncan Wayne Durbin
and Mrs. Vernon J. Dwyer Anon L. Dyke
and Mrs. John A. Earnest Mrs. J. T. Eaton
Mrs. Alvey E. Eddy
Dr. Robert H. Edmund
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Edson Dr. David H. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Edwards Mrs. Robert G. Edwards
Miss V. A. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Ehbrhart Mrs. Alvin Q. Ehrlich
Mr. Lasker Ehrman, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Bart M. Eisner Mr. Robert B. Eldridge
Mrs. Leila Eley
Mrs. R. E. Ellinwood
Mr. and Mrs. VY. L. Elliott
SESESS ESSER ESS SSE S SESS SS SERRE SS eS
Mr. and Mrs. Paul G. Ellis Mr. Ward Ellis
Mr. and Mrs. George T. Elmore Mr. and Mrs. Walter C. Emery Mr. and Mrs. Richard England Mrs. Jane M. Epstine
Mr. A. C. Escalle
Mrs. Harold Eskew
Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Estridge Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Evans, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr. Miss Shirley M. Evans
Mr. W. M. Evans
Miss Constance M. Ewy
Mr. Dale L. Faber
Commander and Mrs. Thomas E. Fahy Ms. Rose Ann Farace
Reverend M. F. Farina
Ms. Marilyn Farrand
Mr. and Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Faver Mrs. Roland C. Fegan
Mrs. Ernest R. Feidler
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Feinberg Mr. and Mrs. Armando Felix Colonel and Mrs. J. J. Felmley Mrs. Rugeley Ferguson
Mr. and Mrs. Giovanni Ferrante Reverend H. A. Ferrell
. Nathan L. Ferris
. Joseph C. V. Ferrusi
. William B. Fetsch
. James George Fidler
. and Mrs. Thomas F. Finkle and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty Julius Fleischman
Gerold L. Fleming
and Mrs. James J. Fleming Olivia Page Floyd
and Mrs. Paul Flum Albert A. Folop
and Mrs. Gary S. Fonarow Dr. and Mrs. Giraud V. Foster Mr. and Mrs. William F. Franck Mrs. Brantley Vernon Frank Mr. John K. Freeman
Dr. Robert G. Freeman
Ms. Mary M. Free
Mrs. Marian M. Freese
Mrs. Donald B. French
Mr. Andrew L. Frey
Mr. Peter Racine Fricker
Mrs. B. Mark Fried
Mr. Art Frink

<<<Page: 401>>>

William C. Frogale
Warren Fugate
Donald H. Fuhs
and Mrs. A. E. Fuller
and Mrs. Edward E. Gahres Vernon M. Gale
Thomas J. Galligan, Jr.
and Mrs. Paul Morton Ganeles s. Lillian T. Garber
E. H. Gardiner
John W. Gardner
and Mrs. Malcolm O. Garfink and Mrs. Geoffrey G. Garney . and Mrs. John Garney
Mrs. John M. Gates, Jr.
Miss Olga M. Gazda
Mr. Edward K. Geehan
Mr. and Mrs. Walter F. Geisinger Mr. B. Geismar
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Geller Dr. Sheila C. Gelman
Dr. Byron A. Genner, III
Mr. Gerald T. Gentry
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Gerding Mr. and Mrs. Carl S. Gewirz
Mr. A. Edward Giberti
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Gibian Dr. and Mrs. William A. Giblin Dr. and Mrs. David M. Gibson Ms. Frances E. Gibson
Mr. Lincoln J. Gilbert
Mrs. Nancy V. Giles
Mr. Wallace E. Giles
Mrs. Sara E. Gillis
Dr. and Mrs. Paul H. Gilpatric Mrs. D. J. Gladwin
Mrs. E. W. Glascock
Mr. Paul Gleich
Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn
Mr. Franklyn B. Glinn
Dr. Louis Gluck
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Goering
Mr. Albert Goldberg Mr Mr Mr
. and Mrs. Fred T. Goldberg . and Mrs. Raymond R. Goldberg . and Mrs. Richard W. Goldman Mr. Larry L. Goldstein Mr. David M. Goodman Mr. Stuart N. Goodman Mr. and Mrs. James F. Goodrich Mrs. Lois R. Gordon Dr. Kenneth P. Gorelick Mr. James C. Gorman Dr. Richard E. Gorozdos
Mr. N. C. Goudeseune
Mr. and Mrs. William Gouldsbury Mr. D. P. Graham
Miss Eunice Graham
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Graham Mr. S. Grandits
Dr. M. L. Oster Granite
Mr. Harold D. Grant, Jr.
Lieutenant General and Mrs. Ernest Graves
Mr. and Mrs. Russell J. Graves Mr. William F. Graves
Ms. Ruth C. Greenberg
Mrs. Dorothy Green
Mr. Preston Greene
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Green, [I Dr. M. Jean Greenlaw
and Mrs. Peter B. Greenough Seymour D. Greenstone
and Mrs. Mark Greenwold
. Regis A. Greenwood
. Donald O. Grimes, Jr.
. William A. Grimes
s. Audrey J. Groene
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Grossman Mrs. Helen Grossman
Ms. Nancy Grove
Ms. Marilyn L. Guerra
Mr. and Mrs. Victor W. Gumper Mrs. Helen W. Gunderson
Mr. David L. Guthrie
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Haas
Mr. Larry L. Haase
Mr. Brian C. Hagenbuch
Miss Elizabeth P. Hagen
Mr. Philip J. Hahn
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander S. Haig Miss Marion E. Haigh
Mrs. Eloise Halliburton
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell L. Hall Mrs. Erna S. Hallock
Ms. Sue Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Halpern Mr. Charles W. Halsey, Jr.
Mr. M. Hamada
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M. Hamady Mr. Patrick L. Hames
Dr. and Mrs. Lynn R. Hamilton
Colonel and Mrs. William T. Hamilton,
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Hamman Ms. Anne E. Hammill
Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Hammock
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Hammond Mr. J. S. Handler
Mr. Norman G. Hansen

<<<Page: 402>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph E. Hansmann Mrs. Kathryn W. Hanson
Mr. Kurtz M. Hanson
Mr. Charles C. Hansult
Mrs. Paul O. Harder
Mr. Eldon A. Hardy
Mr. Hardy Hargreaves
Mr. J. D. Harman
Mr. and Mrs. William Harmon Mr. Edwin F. Harper
Dr. Robert A. Harper
Mr. C. J. Harrington
Mrs. Frank L. Harrington
Mrs. E. T. Harrison
Mr. Robert C. Harris
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Hauslohner Dr. Jeffrey W. Hawkins
Mr. Mones E. Hawley
Mrs. Charles W. Hayes
Mr. Louis J. Hazel
Dr. Kenneth P. Head
Miss Annabelle Heath
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton Mr. and Mrs. Anthony E. Hecht Mr. Richard D. Heckel
Mrs. W. A. Heck
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner Mr. R. D. Heffernan, Jr.
Mrs. Kay Hembree
Ms. Deborah W. Hemenway Mr. and Mrs. Donald F. Hemenway Mr. B. D. Henderson
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas B. Hendrick Mrs. D. J. Hendrickson
Mr. and Mrs. Jim W. Henley Mr. Karl F. Herd
Mr. Jack E. Herington
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Herman Dr. William Herring
Mr. Arnold L. Hespe
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Hester, Jr. Mr. Edward G. Hetrick
Ms. Mary Jane Heyl
Ms. Doris Hiatt
Mrs. Geraldine Hicks
. William L. Higgins
. and Mrs. Friedrich Hilken . and Mrs. Houston Hill, [II . Wendell T. Hill
and Mrs. William J. Hines . Charles W. Hinkle
-. Joseph U. Hinshaw
. Karl V. Hirschmann
S. R. Hobgood
Seeees ess
Ms. Eleanor J. Hoehn
Ms. Margaret M. Hoffman
Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Hogan Brigadier General E. P. Hoisington Mr. Duncan A. Holaday
Mr. William P. Holcombe
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond T. Holden Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hollander Captain F. N. Holley
Mr. and Mrs. Franklin P. Holman Mrs. Robert E. Holmgren
. and Mrs. Robert C. Holsen
. and Mrs. E. R. Hommet
. and Mrs. Daniel Honig
. and Mrs. Richard Hook
. and Mrs. James P. Hope
Ms. Ann Hopping
Mr. W. D. Hord
Ms. Jennifer J. Horinek
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Horn Mr
ssses
. John K. Hoskinson
. Robert Howard
Mr. and Mrs. Ceil Howe, Sr. Mrs. Sally C. Hoyt
Mr. Samuel G. Hubbard
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Hudspeth Mrs. Charles J. Hughes
Mrs. Rosemarie J. Hughes
Ms. Evelyn L. Huisentruit
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings Mr. William R. Humphrey
Mr. E. C. Humphries
Mr. Jack B. Humphries
Mr. Frank Hunsicker
Mr. Albert S. Hunt, Jr.
Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd Ms. Emma Gade Hutaff
Ms. Barbara A. Hutchinson
Ms. Marjorie P. Hutchinson Honorable Daniel H. Huyett, III
Rear Admiral and Mrs. Walter D. E.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Irby
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Ireson Miss Anne M. Jacks
Mr. Lynn E. Jackson
Dr. John R. Jacoway
Mr. John M. Jacquemin
Mr. and Mrs. John Jaeschke Dr. and Mrs. Jonathan Ravid Jaffe Mr. and Mrs. Sidney A. Jaffe Mr. Reinhardt H. Jahn
Ms. Charlene James
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Hudgins, IV
Innis

<<<Page: 403>>>

and Mrs. Chet H. Jameson, Jr. Michael T. Jamgochian Axel Jelstrup
and Mrs. David G. Jennings Thomas A. Jensen
Siding JEresex
. Ludwig Jesselson
Co tonal Alfred H. Johnson
and Mrs. David D. Johnson Denny Johnson
Harald R. Johnson
Ray A. Johnson
Woodrow C. Johnson
and Mrs. John P. M. Johnston Virginia A. Johnston
. Brian L. Jones
Buell B. Jones
wee Charlotte Jones
. James E. Jones
. and Mrs. John B. Jones, Jr. . aod Mrs. Rose M. Jones
. and Mrs. Samuel C. Jones . Thomas O. Jones
s. Wallace L. Jones
. William J. Jones
. Robert E Jordan
. Thomas A. Jordan
Dr. Herbert H. Joseph
Mrs. Jean Joyner
Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Judson Mr. Forrest Junod
Mrs. Rosemary Bonar Kabel
Ms. Melanie L. Kacho
Mrs. Edmund J. Kahn
Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Kaim
rere ee
SSSSSSSh88
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Justin Kallina, Sr.
Mr. John D. H. Kane
Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Kaplin Mr. Emanuel Karadimos
Mr. Robert H. Karatz, Sr.
Mrs. R. H. Karns
Mr. Stanley S. Kask, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Richard A. Kaslow Mr. and Mrs. Jack Katz
Mr. Joseph A. Kayatta
Mrs. James P. Keane
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert W. Keech Ms. Sheila A. Keefe
Mr. and Mrs. Earl W. Keegan Dr. and Mrs. James K. Keeley Mrs. Jane Simmons Keen
Mr. Peter Kehoe
Mr. Robert Keller
Miss Ann S. Kelly
Mrs. J. E. Kemper
Mr. and Mrs. George P. Kendall, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. David T. Kenney Mr. A. Atwater Kent, Jr.
Mrs. Anna Marie Kent
Mr. B. R. Kent
Lieutenant Colonel Tiiu Kera Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Keyes, Jr. Dr. H. Norman Key
Mr. W. Ben Kibler
Mr. and Mrs. John Kicak
Mr. Walter H. Kidd
Dr: T..,L.. Kilgore,,..Jr.
Mrs. J. Killen
Mr. Gary Kilpatrick
Mrs. Samuel C. Kincheloe
Mr. Edward J. King
Mr. Patrick T. King
Mr. David T. Kingsbury
Mrs. F. G. Kingsley
Mr. Stephen King
Dr. W. B. Kintzing
Mr. Harry L. Kirkman
Mr. K. M. Kirkpatrick
Dr. Kirby Kirksey
Mr. and Mrs. John Klein
Mr. Kenneth W. Klein
Ms. Rebecca Klemm
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Kline Ms. Linda Heckman Kling
Mr. L. S. Klotz
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Kluckhohn Mrs. J. K. Knee
Mr. M. G. Knerr
Ms. Teresa Knoester
Mrs. James H. Knowles
Mr. John W. Knowles
Ms. Jean R. Knutsen
Ms. Janet V. Koch
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard R. Kojm Mr. William J. Kollar
Mr. John P. Kondig
Colonel George C. Konolige Mr. Herbert J. Kopff
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin C. Korengold Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Kosciuszko Mrs. Anna Kovasznay
Mr. G. D. Kovener
Mrs. June F. Kraft
Dr. Ralph G. Kramer
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Krebs, Jr. Mr. Irving Kreisberg
Ms. Gloria I. Kreisher
Mrs. Leroy Krusi
397,

<<<Page: 404>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Morton J. Kuff Mrs. William O. Kurtz, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Ladd Miss Martha Ladd
Mr. and Mrs. Herman R. Ladenheim Mrs. Patraicia K. Lafferty
Mr. John A. Laird
Mr. Stephen L. Lake
Mr. Glenn G. Lamson, Jr.
Mr. Willie O. Land, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Emmanuel Landau Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Lando Mrs. Marge Langworthy
Mr. John Lansdale
Colonel and Mrs. John V. Lanterman Captain and Mr. Douglas B. Lapierre
Mr. and Mrs. George Lari
Ms. Susan B. Larsen
Mr. and Mrs. Francis H. Laube Mr. K. F. Lauenstein
Mrs. J. W. Laughlin
Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Laun Mrs. Virginia D. Lavin-Hunter Mr. Eugene Richard Lawson, Jr. Dr. and Mrs. Noel Lawson
Dr. and Mrs. Ronald E. Leach Mr. C. W. Ledebur
Miss Dorothy A. Lee
Mr. James A. Lee
Mr. and Mrs. Jen P. Lee
Mr. and Mrs. William Lehfeldt Ms. Jeanne Lemmer
Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard
Mr. Daniel W. Leubecker
Mr. Jan T. Leung
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Levine
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Levin, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Michael Levitt Mr. and Mrs. Baugh Lewis
Ms. Diana Bonnor Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Liebhardt Mr. James R. Lightfoot
Mr. R. A. Lile
Ms. S. Lindelof
Mr. Wilbur Loren Lindholm Miss Jane T. Lingo
Mr. Robert S. Lipsey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List Mr. and Mrs. Robert Litowitz Miss Dinah B. Little
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur D. Littlepage Mr. and Mrs. William O. Lively Mr. Michael A. Locking
aa |
C. Henry Lockwood, II
and Mrs. Walter M. Loeffler and Mrs. James E. Loesch and Mrs. John H. Loewy Richard D. Lombard
Walter H. Long, Jr.
Everett J. Long
William A. Long
Mrs. Earl H. Look
Colonel and Mrs. Duarte A. Lopes and Mrs. Charles R. Lord Kenneth B. Lord
Dr. and Mrs. Norman Lord
Mr. John B. Lounibos
Mr. Robert B. Love
Mr. Bart W. Lovins
Mr. and Mrs. Burton N. Lowe Mr. Charles L. Lowery
Mr. and Mrs. Schuyler Lowe Mrs. E. H. Lowther
Mr. Remy H. Ludwig
Miss Edna M. Luginbuhl
Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Lund
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Luttrell Miss Louise Lutz
Mr. and Mrs. Martin E. Lybecker Mr. and Mrs. Maurice B. Lynch Mr. Myles V. Lynk
Miss I. T. Lynn
Mr. Jim R. Lyons
Mr. Neil R. Macdonald
Ms. Marian S. Macintyre
Mr. and Mrs. Steven A. Macintyre Ms. Sharon Mackay
Mr. Gordon S. Macklin
Mrs. J. A. Macnabb
Ms. Ellen B. Macneille
Mr. and Mrs. Rex A. Maddox Mr. Frank J. Madia, Jr.
Mr. Ralph K. Madway
Mr. Mitchell S. Magid
Ms. Susan Makara
Mr. and Mrs. Dayton S. Mak Dr. and Mrs. Bernard M. Malloy Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Mandel Mrs. Louise Mann-Kenney
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes
Mrs. Robert Mannherz
Mr. E. Manuel Manning
Mrs. A. Marcelle
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Margus
Mr. and Mrs. Allan W. Markham Ms. C. S. Markson
Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Marmet

<<<Page: 405>>>

. and Mrs. John F. Marshall, Jr. R. N. Marshall
. Kenneth S. Marsh
. George H. Marston
. Robert C. Marston
. Mary Martell
. Alfred S. Martin
Dr. Diana Martin
Mr. and Mrs. John Cephas Martin
Mr. M. S. Martin
Mr. Michael L. Martin
Miss Priscilla Mason
Dr. Robert B. Matheny
Colonel Billie G. Matheson, ( Ret.)
Mrs. Elbert G. Mathews
Mr. and Mrs. Larry Matre
Mr. Robert A. Matthews
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Maxey
Mr. and Mrs. George B. Maxwell
Miss Julia A. Maxwell
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Mayo
Dr. John E. Mazuzan, Jr.
Mr. James I. McAuliff
Mr. Walter J. McBride
Mr. J. C. McCabe
Ms. Nancy M. McCabe
Mrs. Violet McCandlish
Ms. June W. McCarron
Mr. James D. McClary
Mr. Bruce McClintock
Dr. David C. McClure
Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey E. McCool Mr. E. J. McCormack, Jr.
Mr. John O. McCracken
Mr. W. C. McCrone
Mr. Dale E. McDaniel Mr Ms Dr Ms Mr Mr Mr
feesees
. and Mrs. John S. McDaniel, Jr. . Sue H. McDaniel . and Mrs. Morris G. McGee . Nancy J. McGinness . and Mrs. J. Michael McGinnis . and Mrs. Kenneth C. McGuiness . John McIntosh
Dr. and Mrs. W. E. McIntyre
Dr. and Mrs. Douglas W. McKay
Ms. Martha C. McKay
Mr. and Mrs. Edward McKee
Mr. W. J. McKeel
Dr. J. W. McKibben
Mr. Robert W. McKnight
Mrs. Martha McLaughlio
Mr. and Mrs. John L McLucas
Mr. Paul B. McMahon, Jr.
Mr. W. Hugh McNaughton
W. C. McNeal
. W. J. McNeil
. Ruth R. McRae . and Mrs. David L. Mead
James C. Meade
Glenn S. Meader, Jr.
and Mrs. Thomas Mears
and Mrs. Wilbur T. Measley, Jr. Frank Meek, Jr.
H. J. Meinert
Hans M. Mende
Valere P. Menefee
Leon A. Mensing
Vincent Mercurio
. and Mrs. James Mero
and Mrs. William H. Meroney
. Ida C. Merriam
John J. Meyer, III and Mrs. Samuel M. Meyers and Mrs. Howard F. Michelsen
Commander and Mrs. R. J. Miles
. Grace Milgram
Carroll L. Miller
and Mrs. Herbert E. Miller and Mrs. James T. Miller and Mrs. James E. Miller and Mrs. John L. Miller John W. Miller
K. K. Millholland
Hurley F. Minish
and Mrs. Michael H. Mishkind and Mrs. Ford F. Miskell and Mrs. Donald M. Mitchell and Mrs. George B. Mitchell
. Walter W. Mitchell
. and Mrs. Leo Molinaro
. Jules G. Mollere, III
. R. W. Mompter
. Sarah D. Monk
. Carmen G. Montaner,
. Wilson M. Montero
. and Mrs. H. Albert Montgomery . J. B. Montgomery
. and Mrs. Robert M. Montgomery
and Mrs. W. F. Montgomery
Colonel and Mrs. E. W. Moody
Mrs. Mr.
Dr. Mr.
E. Moore James R. Moore James A. Moore P. J. Moore
. and Mrs. Richard H. Moore
Robert H. Moore and Mrs. John H. Morava

<<<Page: 406>>>

Dr. Edwin E. Morey
Mr. Shane Moriarity
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Morison Mrs. Blanche M. Morris
Mr. Charles W. Morris
Ms. Firth Morris
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh M. Morris Mr. J. C. Morris
Ms. Rosanna Morris
Mr. John M. Morss
Dr. P. Steven Mote
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Mott
Rear Admiral and Mr. Douglas F. Mow
Dr. and Mrs. Gary L. Mueller Mr. James G. Mummert
Mrs. Gail W. Munder
Mr. Burnaby Munson
Dr. and Mrs. John C. Munson
. and Mrs. Clifford W. Murphy . and Mrs. James Murphy
E. H. Muschlitz
. Janet Musumeci
Ms. Betty Jane F. Myers
Mr. Eugene E. Myers
Mr. Raymond R. Myslivy
Mr. George Nassauer
Mr. Paul F. Naughton
Mr. David N. Neal
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Neary Mr. Robert H. Neff Mr Dr Mr Mr
. Robert L. Neff
. Heidar Nemat
. Andrew K. Ness
. Conley W. Ness Mrs. M. E. Newcomb Lieutenant Colonel Arthur Newton Mr. Robert W. Ney Dr. Orville F. Nielsen Dr. and Mrs. Earl W. Niles Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Niles Mr. and Mrs. Roger A. Nitto Mr. August M. Noble Mr. and Mrs. Roger M. Nolan Mr. Glenn Nordin Mrs. Nanna M. Norrington Mr. and Mrs. F. N. Norris, Jr. Mr. Robert B. Norris Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. North Mr. and Mrs. David P. Notley Mr. Milton G. Nottingham, Jr. Mr. Walter J. Novak Colonel William F. O’Meara Mr. and Mrs. Denis T. O’Sullivan Mr. Dennis F. O’Brien
Mr. T. H. Obenchain
Ms. Eileen Obrien
Mr. R. B. Obrien
Mr. Terry A. Obrien
Mr. Gerald Offerdahl
Mr. John A. O’Brien
Mr. Carl L. Olson
Mr. Richard Omohundro
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Lloyd Onion Mro JeE @reillyeur.
Mr. Robert D. Orton
Mr. James C. Overholt
Ms. Bethea Owen
Mr. Joseph H. Owen
Mr. Joseph H. Owens
Mr... J. ‘C: Pace
Mr. George Page
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph A. Palmer Dr. Havner H. Parish, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Parker Mr. James W. Parks
Miss Muriel H. Parry
Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Parsons Mr. and Mrs. John Parsons Mr. George Paterson, Jr.
Dr. J. D. Patterson
Mr. Geoffrey L. Patton
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr. Mr. George H. Paul, Jr.
Ms. Joan Paull
Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul
Mr. B. R. Paulsen
Mr. and Mrs. Michael D. Payne Mr. Raymond Pearlstine
Mr. C. L. Pecchenino
Mr. Robert Peck
Mr. Louis Peller
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Pellissier Mrs. Paul J. Peltier
Mr. Edmund Pendleton
Mrs. Thorn Pendleton
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Penick Mr. Clarence Pennington
Mr. and Mrs. Warren A. Perkins Mrs. Shelley Perper
Ms. Dorothy F. Perry
Mr Esa. / Perry
Mr. Gene Perry
Miss Jacqueline Perry
Mr. James P. Perry
Ms. Samantha A. Peterson Mrs. Harold S. Pettit
Mr. Cliff Pfaff
Mr. Robert F. Pfafman

<<<Page: 407>>>

Mr. John W. Pfeiffer Mr. Robert T. Pfeiffer Mr. A. Phillips
Dr. I. Robertson Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. J. Olcott Phillips Mr. and Mrs. Sumner Pingree Mr. John B. Pitchford
Mr. and Mrs. Gary M. Placko Mrs. John N. Plakias
Ms. Elinor Plimack
Ms. Diane J. Plotts
Mr. Welch Pogue
Mrs. Donald T. Pomeroy
Ms. Janice Popp
Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter Dr. Reno R. Porter
Mr. and Mrs. Alan L. Potter Mrs. George Poulson
Miss Amy H. Pound
Dr. and Mrs. W. F. Pounds Mrs. Oscar M. Powell
Mr. Robert E. Pownall
Mr. Tom Preston
Mrs. Charles P. Price
Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato Ms. Gloria Prochaska
Mrs. Dow Puckett
Mrs. Helen T. Purcell
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Purcell Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Purnell Dr. and Mrs. L. King Quan Miss Anne E. Quiggle
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Raddatz
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Anton Rademaker
Mr. David A. Ransom
Miss Ann Rasche
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Rassa Mr. and Mrs. Earl C. Ravenal Mr. Russell D. Raymond
Mr. W. Ray
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick H. Reagan Mr. Atlee J. Reeb
Mr. Rollin M. Reeder
Mr. Philip D. Reed, Jr.
Ms. Faith Rees
Mrs. John H. Rees
Mrs. Charlotte Rehberg
Mrs. Joseph M. Reidy
Dr. Michael J. Reilly
Mr. James D. Reily
Mr. H. A. Rentschler
Dr. and Mrs. F. Turner Reuter Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, Jr.
Mr. Roy C. Rhinehart, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads Mr. R. L. Rhodes, Jr.
Mr. George F. Rhodes
Miss Kathleen Ribaudo
Mr. Arthur H. Rice
Mr. Allen Richards
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Richards Ms. Melissa J. Richens
Miss B. A. Richmond
Mr. Richard D. Rife
Miss Marilyn Rising
Mr. and Mrs. John O. Rittenhouse Mrs. F. Ritter
. Robert E. Ritter
. and Mrs. John H. Rixse, Jr. . Stephen C. Robbins
W. R. Robbins
. and Mrs. Chalmers M. Roberts Miss Jean Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Robertson Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Robinson Mr. and Mrs. Ray Robinson
Dr. Ava D. Rodgers
Mr. Fred W. Rodgers
Mrs. Richard Rodgers
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Rodgers Mr. Dietrich Roesler
Mr. John L. Rogers, Jr.
Mrs. Don E. Rogers
Ms. Priscilla B. Rogers
Mr. W. R. Rogers
Mrs. William B. Rogers
Mrs. E. James Roschman
Mr. Charles H. Rose
Mrs. Sara C. Rosefield
Mr. Irving Rose
Gerald A. Rosen
. and Mrs. Raymond T. Rose . J. W. Roskos
S. Rossello
Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Rosser Mrs. Robert T. Ross
Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Rothenhoefer Ms. Janice K. Rothlauf
Mrs. Elizabeth D. Rott
Mr. and Mrs. Josiah P. Rowe Mrs. Lois B. Rowland
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Rowland Ms. Marcia Rubenstein
Dr. and Mrs. Leonard R. Rubin Dr. Philip Rubovits-Seitz
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Rule Mr. J. W. Runyon, Jr.
Dr. Edward C. Ruth
Sees es
ress

<<<Page: 408>>>

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Ryan
Dr. Stephen K. Rymer
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Sabino Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon P. Sadugor Mr. Alan B. Sadwin
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Sander Dr. Arthur Sandstrom
Mr. A. Herbert Sandwen
Mr. Samuel C. Santangelo
Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff
Mr. and Mrs. Dale Satran
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Sawick Mrs. Lillian M. Saxe
Mr. Albert Sbar
Mr. James P. Scannell
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schaffer, Jr. Mr. William F. Schaper
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Scheinman Lieutenant Colonel Ronald A. Schena Mrs. Robert S. Scheu
Miss Matilda P. Schlicht
Dr. and Mrs. S. P. Schmal
Ms. Ann D. Schmidt
Miss Marguerite V. Schneeberger Dr. and Mrs. Hans H. Schneider Ms. Margaret M. Schneider
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Schneider Dr. William H. Schneider
Mrs. Agnes Schnurer
Mr. Anthony A. Schoendorf
Mr. James E. Scholl
Ms. Alice Schonberg
. and Mrs. J. Schroeder
C. F. Schutte
and Mrs. Harold A. Schwartz Edward H. Schwarz
. James J. Schweiger
M. B. Scott
and Mrs. Robert M. Scott
. Mary E. Sears
and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers Mr. William See
Mrs. Gerald H. Seifert
Dr. and Mrs. Robert G. Self
Mrs. Catherine H. Sells
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest R. Seymour Ms. Elaine G. Shafrin
Mr. Kevin E. Shanahan
Shaw Investment
Mr. and Mrs. Ross S. Shearer Mr. and Mrs. H. Franklin Shedd Mr Mr
. Philip V. Sheehan . and Mrs. Frank Sheffield
Mrs. W. Mason Shehan
Mrs. Elsie T. Shelton
Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Shelton Ms. Joanna Sher
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Sherman Mr. F. J. Sherwood
Ms. Lynne Sherwood
Miss Katherine Shilling
Mr. Rufus Shivers
Mr. and Mrs. Clyde E. Shorey Mr. George B. Shott
Mr. Roy Shrobe
Mrs. Lulu G. Shuff
Mr. Harley F. Shuford, Jr.
Mr. Warren Sichel
Mr. Clifton Siegelin
Mr. and Mrs. Irving H. Siegel Mr. and Mrs. Jack Silberman Mr. Russell L. Sill
Dr. A. E. Silver
Mr. Raymond Simon
Mrs. Manley H. Simons
Miss Alice H. Simpson
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Singer
Dr. and Mrs. James D. Singletary Mr. and Mrs. Robert Sivard
Dr. Raymond A. Skeehan
Mr. Richard C. Sloan
Mr. and Mrs. Leon Sloss Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Smith Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith Mr. Edward M. Smith Ms. Ella E. Smith
Mr. Frank O. Smith Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr
. James B. Smith
. Joseph C. Smith
. and Mrs. Norman L. Smith . R. J. Smith
. Raymond S. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Stevan B. Smith Mrs. Witham Smith
Mr. Howard F. Smothers
Mr. Patrick Snead
Dr. George E. Snider, Jr.
Mr. W. P. Snyder, III
Mr. David Solo
Mr. Juan Armando Soto
. Lynn A. Soukup
. and Mrs. R. C. Soxman Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Spear Mr. Harry H. Spence Mrs. Colletta F. Sperling
Lieutenant Commander Gladys M. Sperrle,
Mrs. G. Spivey

<<<Page: 409>>>

Mr. L. Spozais Mr. John Taylor
Mrs. R. E. Spreen Ms. Robyn D. Taylor Mrs. J. Spurlock Mr. William Telcher Mrs. Donna W. Stanford Mr. Joseph M. Tessmer . Ellwood C. Stang Dr. Charles W. Thacker . and Mrs. Ralph C. Stayer Mr. Alan Thebert . and Mrs. Frederick R. Stebbins Mr. Barry Dan Thomas John Stefano Dr. F. Joseph Thomas R. N. Stefan Mr. and Mrs. Holcombe H. Thomas . William R. Stehle Mr. J. T. Thomas and Mrs. Cabot T. Stein Mr. Stephen J. Thomas
George R. Steiner Captain and Mrs. Edgar K. Thompson
. Abigail Sterling Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Thompson and Mrs. Bruce B. Sterling Mr. and Mrs. James L. Thompson and Mrs. Carleton W. Sterling Ms. Mims Thompson Douglas D. Sterling Mr. W. Thompson W. Clinton Sterling, III Mr. Charles A. H. Thomson B. J. Stevens Miss Isabel Thomson
Roland E. Stevens Joseph T. J. Stewart
Mrs. Margot K. Thomson Mrs. Veronica Thorp
. Gardiner Symonds
. Albert Szvetics
and Mrs. James R. Talbot
. and Mrs. John Talbot
. and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott . and Mrs. George S. Tallichet T. Miriam Tani
. Peter J. Tanous
. Nancy Tarsitano
Thomas E. Stewart, III Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Tibor and Mrs. Eugene P. Stichman Ms. Barbara L. Tierney and Mrs. Richard W. Stickell Mrs. L. E. Tierney and Mrs. Frank A. Stocking Dr. Donald C. Tilton Robert A. Stone Mr. and Mrs. Paul Tishman Virgil R. Strader Mr. H. Titchell and Mrs. S. Tudor Strang Mr. Toshio Tokunaga and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton Mrs. Araks V. Tolegian Warren J. Strudwick Mr. and Mrs. Everett R. Tomlinson William T. Stumb Mr. William J. Tonkin and Mrs. Steven C. Suddaby Mrs. Helen B. Tormoen Harris M. Sullivan Mrs. William C. Tost James P. Sullivan Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L. Townsend . Sally A. Sullivan Mr. and Mrs. F. Gerald Toye Vincent M. Sullivan Mr. Adrian G. Traas . William R. Sullivan, IT Mr. and Mrs. Francis R. Trainor Donn E. Summers Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Tralla . John Sutch Mrs. William C. Treuhaft . David A. Sutherlund Mrs. Carol K. Trigonoplos Jenks Swank Mrs. Suzanne Trussell Russell Swanson Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker . and Mrs. Robert L. Swart, Jr. Mrs. James N. Tulloh . Phelps H. Swift Mr. Robert L. Tull . Phyllis Swigert Mr. and Mrs. William J. Turbeville, . Paul C. Symmons Mr. David S. Turner
Mrs. George C. Underwood, II Miss Eleanor Unzicker
Paul L. Urban
. Donald Usher
. and Mrs. Jean L. Vaillant
. and Mrs. Peter A. Valentino . and Mrs. J. B. Vallandingham . Ray E. Vanalstine
. and Mrs. Philip Vance

<<<Page: 410>>>

Mrs. F. B. Vandenburgh . Lois A. Vandenburg . Leroy J. Vanderwende . and Mrs. Richard C. Vandusen Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Vanhaeften Ms. Caroline E. Vanmason Dr. William C Van Arsdel, III Mr. and Mrs. John A. Varela Mrs. Franklin Veatch Ms. Natalie D. Venneman Ms. June A. Ventura Mr. Raoul M. Verhagen Mr. Victor J. Villone Ms. Ada Vincent Ms. Alice B. Vincillione . Raymond D. Vinick . and Mrs. Ellis C. Vogel . Clarence E. Vollmer Jill R. Wade Woodward Waesche M. G. Waggoner W. A. Waggoner Paul M. Walison . Brian S. Wallace L. Wallace . John O. Wallor Alan B. Wambold Mrs. Harry Wanger Miss Carolee J. Ward Mr. F. B. Warder Dr. Joe W. Ward Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Wareheim Mrs. George F. Warner Mr. and Mrs. George E. Warner Mr. William W. Warner Mrs. Saul Warshaw Ms. Ruth G. Wasley Dr. Barbara Waters . George E. Watson . Mildred V. Watts . James E. Wayland . H. Wayne Weagly . Anna Weaver . V. Phillips Weaver . and Mrs. John F. Weersing
Re SSeSES ERE S
. and Mrs. Edward Weinberg
. Linda S. Weingarten
. and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann
. Leonard W. Weis
. J. R. Weiss
. and Mrs. H. Dawson Wells, Jr. . and Mrs. Jack W. Wells
. and Mrs. Irwin H. Wensink
Mr Ms Mr Mr Ms Mr Mr Mr. and Mrs. Emil P. Weilbacher, Jr. Mr Ms Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr
Mr. Gerald L. Werner
Mr. Stuart L. Werner
Ms. Shirley Werris
Captain J. H. Wesson (USN, Ret.) Mr. and Mrs. James S. West
Mr. Raymond E. Weston, Ir.
Miss Hilda Wexler
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Wharton Mr. and Mrs. George Y. Wheeler, III Ms. Adelia C. Wheeler
Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan
Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Wherley Ms. Jaan Whitehead
Mr. T. Jeffrey Whitehurst
Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. White
Ms. Rita L. White
Mrs. Virginia Roper Whitney
Mr. James H. Wiborg
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Wicklund Mr. Lawrence A. Wien
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard A. Wien Dr. and Mrs. Harry W. Wilcke Dr. and Mrs. U. V. Wilcox, II Mrs. Vivian Wildman
Mrs. Ruth Wilhelm
Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke Wilkinson Mrs. Gladys E. Willard
Mr. Andrew W. Williams
Mr. Henry J. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. H. Williams, Jr. Major General and Mrs. Ellis W. Williamson
Mr. and Mrs. M. M. Williamson Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Williams Ms. Mil Willis
Mr. and Mrs. George B. Wilson, III Captain Lucille A. Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Henry T. Wilson Mr. Hugh H. Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Wilson Mr. Lowell Wilson
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr. Dr. and Mrs. Richard B. Wilson Mrs. Winifred C. Wilson
Mrs. Harriet L. Wilt
Mr. Robert Windsor
Dr. and Mrs. James R. Wirth Mr. James D. Wirt
Mr. Neal H. Wirt
Ms. Louise Woerner
Mrs. Saralyn V. Wolff
Mr. and Mrs. Leland A. Wolf Mr. and Mrs. William T. Wolf

<<<Page: 411>>>

Dr. and Mrs. Allan Y. Wolins
Mrs.
Robert M. Wolterstorff and Mrs. William A. Wood, Baird Woodcock
David L. Wood
and Mrs. Harry E. Wood James A. Wood
Marshall D. Woods William S. Woods
H. R. Wrage
Jack A. Wright
and Mrs. Nelson Wurz T. Evans Wyckoff
. S. T. Wyland
Margaret J. Wyllie
. Charlotte S. Wyman
and Mrs. Frederick B. Wynn
. Bruce Yamanaga
and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney and Mrs. Charles Yarbrough
sess
. Sallie Ann Yater
. and Mrs. Michael S. Yauch
. Jerome E. Yochelson
. Paul M. Yoder
. and Mrs. Gary B. Yost
. and Mrs. Daniel K. Young, Jr.
and Mrs. Gerald D. Young
Ki E. Young . and Mrs. James Youniss
and Mrs. Berton Zbar and Mrs. Fred M. Zeder and Mrs. M. L. Zeigler, Jr.
Colonel Frank J. Zeller
and Mrs. Robert Zeppa
. and Mrs. George H. Ziener . and Mrs. Edwin Zimmerman . and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc
. Louis  "ni é Ss 1 , , 7 7 * ' mi »

<<<Page: 412>>>

(OS Siar eae
No! LIB Not
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IuvVusIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTI!
satuvygit
Me yaly
INSTITUTION NOIL INSTITUTION Saryvugit LIBi INSTITUTION
Mp his ‘ INSTITUTION NOI1 INSTITUTION saiuvugi7 Li
SMITHSONIAN NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVus
) S Saluy
WS Qe
Ys NVINOSHLIWS S31uvua
SMITHSONIAN Gp, “he
NYINOSHLIWS ye SS \Sas
NVINOSHLIWS ’ & WS & x AN
\e >
NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUSIT Se AE SB NE SMITHSONIAN
LIBRARIES S31uvudil_ Li
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS Saluvuag
NVINOSHLINS S31YVYUstil LIBRARIES
g§17 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
S3tyvyudi
sary’
Kus Wasr\ INSTITUTION
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNIE NVINOSHLINS S31Yvyuslt LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTI
NVINOSHLINS S31NWHSIT LIBRARIES / iy Cs Ue
wo re ze, i g z oe gw, 2 g z g z YO fy, Zz = by = = = ee fy, Zz Ss = = > Xx Uf 2 6 hii = eS } = ro) Vif fli, re) x eS fe} ry WN foe = ij’ SS FE as ie colada = Z, E We’ 2 E Wy z = z Ss Z = z z Zz. SWE z ARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHIIWS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31uVvuag o S o i f z 2 z ay = e Ty a us a 3 2 & = @ < ¥ = ") = = < 2 SQ: & = & 2 Qe \e ae = WS RNS Je g é 5 W's 5 S a or o . o Ge oO ae oO ae {eo} _ 2) i. OS 4 =z — 2 z =i = — Pa a JLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31¥VUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31¥VYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUT! c z= (pe rs ie ra ~ Li ee i vat ee co = = oD ° = S) = ° ao ses = : 5 Git ® : : : : : : 4) > SS = > ey Ley = > & eas Lip = s) 2 = 2 Gay a = = res a i 2 . = wn = = w _ 2 = ARIES. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S318VYEITLLIBRARIES | SMITHSONIAN — p NOILOLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31UVUS wee = Sas wo we NE = = Snkaa = < = < Xe = <x = = = SS = Wo §F = = “Ss MM. 5 = = “S ee WW. 3 5 SS = = ou DG, Md 6 NN 4 = = 7 oy rs Zz BY Wa NN a Z BOGGS 2K & Z SYM 2 G4 Sz = Se Ee Gy = NS 2 = e YY E 2 Uy > = > ‘ = > = > 4 > ee = > = = a & = 5. as. ee

<<<Page: 413>>>

}D RSVFe 2 Xaae St ee. alee =} wp XS ea = “gs as LY “oy \S 2] = 1 BAN a SN m <tinos OWN = Eu 2 Vey =. 7 4 2 ee D RNS = ears m Ceo” gt " “ m Neo7 B RIES. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILN: RAN NS w Fase’ m Os cs gi LIBRA on i ~, =z * AN z on ~NVINOSHLINS S3IuYvY ae g <x = ££ = ON NOILNLILSNI_N o e z ES Br & =) Z HSONIAN_INSTITUTI z = yy iS = QZ Y ESSENIANSINS z Z = Wy, ? _ 2 WN Y = 43 = 5 iz Ya AD fe) = AS’ 2 FZ, 5 \ . a A B re) YG; Leh rs Zz e WS =a 2 WE S ce RF aes = ee Pee, “LIBRA =e YQ" Z = = a LILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS saluvugiy_ = SN > a ITUTION NOILAL well no Zz = eros Fa IES SMITHSONIAN INST 7) z ira n” PSalyVvealT LIBRARIES 3 s & = a o 2 w iY = Ez SWS ia c ia at o ior x (ox Sa oc a : : : we = 2 A's 5 _< (= o Su fo) “DS 7 Za SSA = m Oo = 2 = STITUTION NOILN. WS = 2 3 WS S3INVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ IN x an = SNI NVINOSHLI = z = S) ION NOLLALIL i S a ER SONIAN INS TUEYS z = Ne 5 ow = Yh My Sa 5 : = oO 5 : a4 : : : E > WS D> — ff > : ce x Ge — 7) iS = Es = = 9 Vil m Ses, = 9 m ee PNOLLNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31NVU GI Jet 4 a SONIAN <= z= cS WW AINOSHLINS, S31 UVHGIT_LIBRARIES | SMITH z = 3 2 Dip § Ss : E Ws FE 2 2 ih fy & BGI ON = 4 fy Z NS ro) ; 9 Oy = =r , a i 5 \T, : aE a 2) Fy tiff so 2 CY = = wD tp BS Reo GD = 9 ‘ty EF = *h = S Gigs = \: 2 = 5 We 3 2 NNOILN 2 i = ae & = LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTIO o = o ’ OSHLIWS be o A ww AITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NOLLALILSNI_N¥ING | “ i Sas & = = Oe Bs fh x < 2 2 WX = = de) a = a < c A oc = no “GEG S) im E a = Pe S ares “saluvugiT LIBR = a fs) ay 2 LLSNI_NVINOSHLINS $3! = g S) =; = TITUTION NOILNL Ges z = : z ~LIBRARIES~ SMITHSONIAN” INS z = S) @ SHLINS_S3IuVYSIT LIB Be i z = N S : vINO z iS fe) %» Oo = x aN Sa > ‘. o w = A 2 2} aa Ya Ww = 2 . _ ely, te = IW = = \ i D = LE? = eas ANS 2) m SX = = = Vs Zz a m SN z 7) i BS e\ e — n* ; m z ? HSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIL SOE) ra wo ARIES SMIT : wo ‘SY Z @ |_NVINOSHLINS Saluvudi7 LIBR 2 ee = Se INS TNE NOME ASH = Wy, ? = 5 Xe 2 Y = *% 4 cs = = ~ RMA © Vf: = ee = Ly, F = YU, 9 ’ © ‘AN 9 G 5 Nw? Ye: 8G? z = We = AYN 2 hia: = = een ie Sines atiae =a A 2 * NOLLALILSNI_ NYINOSH 5 = ae 2 aie INSTITUTION | = ue z VINOSHLINS S3IUVYGIT LIBRA be M, ay : a ! 7p) z Ww m) = = WI < Pa a % a a < Sc WWe = e = < = cc 2 WS 2 3 WN «= 5 Ee 3 = o ; * ITUTION NOILN SOY 5 5 = = 4 SMITHSONIAN INST “er 3 sy = Ydi7_ LIBRARIES 2 2 cate UTION NOLLMALLSNI” NVINOSHLIWS SAINY z = a MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION _ Eee |Z = = “3 5 —_ je) SN ne = > o = 2 NR 5 > Ey 2 = : = EUR = z 5 ; : > Lead = 3) re = = 4 w = & ) = — ” m = Yal1_ LIBR = Z D ‘2 NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS, S31U¥ =o ai _LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN w be s ‘Ze WN WINOSHLINS, S21UWY GIT LIBRAF Y z = = = ENN z e WN z = 1 Uy & B 2% = . o xy thy n 7 = S fey Z WS > fe) GO yf Jf Se $ 5 7 4, $2) SK, ~ ” o hy YG E = = G4 2 & zZ 2p = = i 2 Ly e Ae = Bet coon a SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILC = % = Sie ' ai 1yvyugiy LIBRARIES | a w Z eo ISNI NVINOSHLINS $3 ~ # = INSTITUTION NOILNLI ih n Zz Ww ae esn re ae Ww ee ae. te Jp < Zz ed 2 XE = = ae Pip ral Pe n a 4 gw S o& = iY eZ Cc “a oc = SS, < Sc a “Biz, ay co S <x = ENN oc = mo Mijplg = xe e in a AN oO Saat = 0 —_

<<<Page: 414>>>

iwi INSTIT 3 9088 016

<<<Page: 415>>>

smithsonianye
‘ ’ : ' a ees 2 fh