<<<Page: 1>>>

! ) t £ ¥ ‘ ; | ; } ; I t , } I ‘ } } ) } ora j i } | 7 4 } xh } } +} 4 | 1. . 7 } } i }
b| } } \ } 4 }
4 ‘ ‘ ; f eS is
ys oa
aE Bey Y
s , ce
St mR
met?
i j I ' ; }
i } t 1
} t } } ]
a4 med } i
*) es th
oe — , ~
% a a , ‘& 4 » et x ¥ i ® .
Dustin
tome
Peet
i . a

<<<Page: 2>>>

i Son aa naa SE

<<<Page: 3>>>

TION NOILOALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS S3IuVYUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIW
INSTITUTIO! INSTITUTIO! saluvual INSTITUTIO
Jd11 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
Ga NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUE! LY NVINOSHLINS SZIUVUal
SMITHSONIAN tLe Gs ie NVINOSHLIWS ENG aS SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN We: NVINOSHLIWS KE LN SMITHSONIAN
wo = Ww = w = oP) = Ww Zz SY y wi 2 WwW a Ww 2 = GX 2 g 2S og @ < SWS EF : iP 3 F = fea = a. oc S rae “Ue, S cc S 2 3 ue S a date S = 5 c ak = as = ad . JG 17 LIBRARIES” SMITHSONIAN” INSTITUTION | NOLLNLILSNINVINOSHLINS S31 ¥VYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA — Yo, wo =< s — o = 7 = uae Gin, x = Neg 5 x E (eth, S) a Js =) . a) = > & LL F LAWS E > © OL Oo z o Zz sale D =
NVINOSHLINS S3tuVvyal
n me a2 = =. -« w a
gt. : : z 2 a. i &,: % i Lei Di Oe: s Ny 93: NS rs} Vig i ae fe) or T WINE S Vig os a Weis E Zi iS = NY 2,77 } = a : : 2 zs 8 5 JAN LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NVINOSHLINS SSIYVUEIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
z ui ty, Zz WwW 2 uw =
g = Yu, % “ as @
a < jae < c ‘SS al
Fa ne GY for S eg a. COS =
fe) a ro) = js) as re)
2 ea Sg = : S
saluvadgi INSTITUTION INSTITUTION
Saiuvudlt INSTITUTION
Z 2 = 2 z 2 ZS yok Qs = Ea yt fy Z = wl fy & NS 4p 5 WS = ro} = ro) Se SY tp D CK J Re F z so Y GGG 2X po EY 2 E 2 Uy «= 2 Gay = SS Fee 5 ee: = Bia UTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI rf 2 & w 2 2 Z us z 2 2 WX = = =. oy fp > = = < as AK Nee A <vf Le =A < = cc S WN oe = a Yi Cc x c a = YS mo = a Ge, mL o = = ro) =e ro) = Z Oo = Oo =) 2 ee | 2 <aJ Zz | 2 bi Udit LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3I14YVYaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONI/ iz zs ; — 5 bate = z oh fo) 4 = 2) = oO = ro) BH = 5 53 5 = 5 2 5 ZZ > = i D> = > = = = y E : E E > = Yj 2 23 2 : 2 = = = Sh m n* m Ls m & m n* ; o = n 2 7) = 4h z EN OVIOEIESNE NVINOSHIINS SSIUVEEIT LIBRARIES | INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIL z z z Wy Sie z a g z = = = Lily, Zz é = > & = S \ 5 2 5 fefia NN: S WN: 3 WS 8 oe 8 Oli 2 SNS Z WN = QT 2. = 2. Sy oN z E Ww) 2: E ~ = 2 ee So, = aS = SEISEIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS Saluvasia LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA Tur m JANG Ww Z ONG uw MSUTOD A ~& Lu <Gill> = = oe yy, m2 Cor Gy. ° KE = KMS Av = LMR 2 LD ' |S

<<<Page: 4>>>

saluvuat INSTITUTIO S S3IUVUEI INSTITUTIO INSTITUTIO sa1uvual INSTITUTIO
ION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S3iYVHYSIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NYINOSHLIWS
L ¥/, OF fer NVINOSHLINS S31uvual
— oe g Z = = -§ z Z 3 = z a “Zz Ss = | = 5 2 By 2 We 3 & 3 8 = z Es NS cS 2 = g a 2 a . z g a : : an J17_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS _LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN = a. ot Jy a = AS Ps = « tf fy = roe Wig, = a = NN a = « ZZ 5 a ‘YZ 3 (3) S . faa) 5 fea) Vp) 2 = = ey = Seer Zz i ON | NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS [S318VYS1T LIBRARI ES_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION z NOLLALILSN!~NVINOSHLIWS S) ay ee re) = ° ee, sa 3 = Ss = o ‘ — ow = o = ow : = 2 LY as x E Ea s a WS E 5 WHEE = e ope E > eS = 2 QNYE ~ ro ae a Boas no =i SNS no = no” a o = WS = wo ial = a z in z o SS IITLLIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS, S3IYVEGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN ae A : = yy, = = wp ; s 25 We: Ny 2 G3 2 YG 5 mia: XN a ~ WX & Pim na a fais \N a pO o BAS Oo GY GG = 9 0S for ND 9 SF = Nr 2.7K E = S = a ‘ 2 = 2 FA 7 * 2
INSTITUTION S321YVvdstt
INSTITUTION, NOILALILSNI s SS 7 jl . “ity S3IUVUGIT. LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
S3tYVYslT
NVINOSHLINS SZiu¥VUsIT LIBRARIES
Ml SMITHSONIAN NVINOSHLIWS SMITHSONIAN
Ji7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN. INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
> w wo — w
Zz ul x 2
7) ; WAS n Se ke | pig = sq ee 5 tf Z Vy < WSS \ Vf Lf 2) S ges oc ; om Wiz. pe “i N a a
5 % et OQ We
ION_ NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3I1Y¥VYdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION — NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS
S hes
S3tYVYSITLIBRARIE INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI SZ1YWUGITLIBRARIE
Ssatyvygl
ee ; uw : 2 ¥ w z E ma ar tf, — as Zi 5 \ = 5 SY 2 9G5 2 OU24Y.5 wi FE EN S Zz AW 3 Vif i “2 6 GP Hi ZF WS Ee Ne’ 2 E QO 2.47kh = g we EF NAY 2 a ~~ 2 So = = 5 = w ON NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31YVYAIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS =z N WwW z n = ui S = n Re ” — nw a ~ a
Kull Ket VE LON KE ~~ VILE (> ENB) lS Qiao (So CTY yo.
eR wo

<<<Page: 5>>>



<<<Page: 6>>>

FIY\ 101 Sb It
Smithsonian Year 1985 Supplement
Chronology and Appendixes
Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

Smithsonian Year 1985 Supplement
Chronology and Appendixes
Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 9>>>



<<<Page: 10>>>

Contents Chronology 5
Appendix 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1985 33
Appendix 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1984, through September 30, 1985 47
Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1985 51
Appendix 4. Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1985 by,
Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1985 94
Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1985 106 Appendix 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1985 228 Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1985 279
Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1985 401
Appendix ro. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in Fiscal Year 1985 444
Note The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual appendixes is not alphabetical but rather follows the organization of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.
The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically reproduced from typescript provided by the individual bureaus and offices.

<<<Page: 11>>>

The Smithsonian Institution
Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Committee, and the Secretary Office of the Secretary Office of the Under Secretary Office of Audits and Investigations Office of the General Counsel Science National Air and Space Museum National Museum of Natural History National Zoological Park Office of Fellowships and Grants Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Smithsonian Environmental Research Center Smithsonian Office of Educational Research Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute History and Art Anacostia Neighborhood Museum Archives of American Art Center for Asian Art: Freer Gallery of Art and Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Cooper-Hewitt Museum Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Joseph Henry Papers National Museum of African Art National Museum of American Art National Museum of American History National Portrait Gallery Office of American Studies Museum Programs Conservation Analytical Laboratory National Museum Act Programs Office of Exhibits Central Office of Horticulture
Office of Museum Programs
Office of the Registrar
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Public Service
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Public Affairs
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
Administration
Administrative and Support Activities Financial Management Activities Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Smithsonian Internship Council
Directorate of International Activities Membership and Development
Office of Development
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates James Smithson Society
Smithsonian National Associate Program Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Under Separate Boards of Trustees
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts National Gallery of Art

<<<Page: 12>>>

Smithsonian Year 1985 CHRONOLOGY
The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the fiscal year. No attempt has been made to make this a complete compilation of the Institution's activities.
October
Awards: The American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA) presented the Marlin Perkins Award of Excellence to former National Zoo Director Theodore H. Reed. AAZPA Significant Achievement Awards were also presented to the National Zoo for the new Monkey Island exhibit and a new public affairs program, "Symposia for the Public."
October
New Service: Information Desk services provided through the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center began at the National Museum of American Art and the National Portrait Gallery.
October
Publication: The first issue of Journeys, a magazine for junior-high-schoolaged children based on Smithsonian programs and resources, was printed and
. distributed on a test basis to selected teachers around the nation. The pilot project was funded by the Educational Outreach Fund and carried out by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, assisted by the Office of Public Affairs.
October
Publication: The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings released a seven-record set entitled "American Popular Song: Six Decades of Songwriters and Singers."
October
Seminar: Dr. Richard Mitchell, author, professor of English at Glassboro State College and editor of The Underground Grammarian, gave a seminar at the Smithsonian Office of Educational Research on "Alternatives to the Traditional Education System.”
October
Television: "Smithsonian World," the series of prime-time, one-hour specials co-produced by the Smithsonian and WETA-TV, aired five new programs between October and May; reruns of seven earlier shows were also aired during July and August. Among many of the most prestigious industry honors received by the show was an Emmy awarded in August.

<<<Page: 13>>>

October
Workshop: The Office of Museum Programs, in cooperation with the Virginia Association of Museums, began a series of four on-site workshops at locations across Virginia.
October 1
Organization: The Directorate of International Activities was established and John E. Reinhardt, formerly Assistant Secretary of History and Art, was named as director, with responsibility for the Office of Service and Protocol (formerly the Office of International Activities), the Office of Publications Exchange (formerly the International Exchange Service) and the International Center, a component of the Center for African, Near Eastern and Asian Cultures.
October 4
Milestone: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden celebrated the tenth anniversary of its opening.
October 5
Exhibition: Werner Drewes, Sixty-five Years of Printmaking, opened at the Museum of American Art with 110 works drawn from the museum's extensive holdings. In a subsequent public program, Drewes discussed his life and work with noted critic and designer Wolf von Eckardt.
October 6-8
Exhibition: The Office of Horticulture displayed prime specimens of the orchid collection at the National Capital Orchid Society Show.
October 9
Exhibition: European Roots of American Pharmacy, an exhibition of instruments,
paintings, drug containers and other objects showing the influence of the tools
and practices of the European apothecary on the American pharmacy, opened in the Dibner Gallery at the National Museum of American History.
October 12-13
Symposium: Eight distinguished scientists examined the diversity of animal mating systems in the National Zoo's public symposium entitled "The Mating Game: Exploring the Mysteries of Animal Reproduction."
October 19
Exhibition: Baseball Immortals, 1905-35: The Photographs of Charles Martin Conlon opened at the National Portrait Gallery, an exhibit jointly organized with The Sporting News.

<<<Page: 14>>>

October 19
Special Event: Archaeologist Mary Leakey lectured for the Resident Associate Program on discoveries of fossil human ancestors in East Africa; the event was cosponsored by the National Museum of Natural History.
October 20
Concert series: The 20th-Century Consort opened its 1984-85 season at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden with the first of four concerts, entitled "Election Special."
October 20
Symposium: "Can't Something Be Done?," a program co-sponsored by the Museum of American History, focused on Eleanor Roosevelt's activities in Washington, D.C., during the New Deal and featured discussions among scholars of the New Deal
era and individuals who had helped to fashion the New Deal policies.
October 21
Exhibition: The Anacostia Museum opened Black Women: Achievements Against the Odds, an exhibition providing an overview of black women's history from the colonial period to the modern era. The exhibition was produced by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.
October 21
Special Program: The Office of Museum Programs and the United States Information Agency co-sponsored the second annual museum administration project, enabling seven museum professionals from six European countries to study current practices and problems of museum administration at the Smithsonian and other museums in the United States.
October 24-26 Colloquium: The Kellogg Project's "Colloquium II" was held at the Xerox International Training Center, Leesburg, Va. The theme, "Museums in Pursuit of Educational Excellence," was addressed by six speakers.
October 29
New System: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries introduced its new Automated Library System to representatives of Institution units.
October 31
Exhibition: Praise Poems: The Katherine White Collection opened at the National Museum of African Art.

<<<Page: 15>>>

November
Gift: The Earl Silas Tupper Foundation pledged $4 million to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute for the construction of the Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Center in Panama.
November
New Facility: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries announced the opening of a new branch library in the Office of Horticulture. The library, currently located in the Arts and Industries building, is the fifteenth branch library in the system.
November 1
Premiere: "Comet Quest," a multi-media presentation that explores comets through the ages, opened at the National Air and Space Museum's Albert Einstein Planetarium.
November 1
Workshop: A regional workshop, sponsored by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, was held in Oakland, Calif., bringing more than 310 teachers to work with local museum educators. Additional workshops were held in Charleston, S.C. (November 8), and in Oak Ridge, Tenn. (March 23).
November 5
Exhibition: Marine Mammals of the World, an exhibit of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, opened at the National Bank of Panama Museum under the sponsorship of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and the Directorate of Marine Resources of the Government of Panama. All exhibit materials were translated into Spanish.
November 10
Workshop: Carolyn Landon, artist, conducted an adult workshop, "African Sculpture Through the Artist's Eyes," in the galleries of the Museum of African Art.
November 13-14
Visit: Their Royal Highnesses the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg visited the Freer Gallery of Art and the galleries, plaza and garden of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
November 13
Seminar: Prof. Andrew S. Skinner, Adam Smith professor of political economy at the University of Glasgow, led a discussion on Adam Smith and public policy, part of a continuing series examining the intellectual roots of the U.S. Constitution and Bill of Rights.

<<<Page: 16>>>

November 13
Special Event: Avant-garde performer Meredith Monk appeared at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in a program co-sponsored by the Resident Associate Program and the Hirshhorn as part of the Hirshhorn's tenth anniversary celebration.
November 14
Exhibition: Miguel Covarrubias Caricatures, the first retrospective of this artist's caricatures, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
November 14
Exhibition: The Metropolitan Opera Centennial: A Photographic Album opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
November 26
Milestone: The SIL acquisitions unit began processing orders of books and journals electronically on its SIL Automated Library System through the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Information System (SIBIS).
November 28
Telecast: "The Sea: A Quest for Our Future," a one-hour documentary produced by the Office of Telecommunications, had its premiere on the Public Broadcasting System network and subsequently received the 1984 Best Nature Production Award from the International TV Movie Festival (March 1985) and a second-place award from the 1985 National Educational Film Festival.
November 29
New Facility: The archives of American Art officially opened its sixth center, the Southern California Research Center, in San Marino, Calif.
November 29
Publication: The first volume of a series of annual reports, National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984, was published, covering the historical and scientific research programs of the National Air and Space Museum.
December
Discovery: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scientists discovered a new gravitational lens in Constellation Pegasus, a lens which is apparently serving as a "cosmic magnifying glass" to enhance the image of a much more distant quasar.
December Discovery: Botanists of the Museum of Natural History reported the
identification of the deepest growing plant found on Earth, an alga they discovered off an uncharted, underwater island in the Bahamas.

<<<Page: 17>>>

December
Publication: Solar Flux Atlas from 296 to 1300 nm was published by SAO, National Solar Observatory and Harvard. The atlas serves as a spectroscopic standard for researchers in solar and planetary physics, stellar spectroscopy, and atmospheric sciences.
December 1
Special Event: The ninth annual "Hirshhorn Holiday for Children" was presented at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, drawing some 3,500 visitors to the Museum during four hours of live performances.
December 5
Announcement: The Air and Space Museum announced a project to construct and fly a replica of a prehistoric flying reptile, a pterosaur known as Quetzalcoatlus northropi. The radio-controlled flying replica will be included in "On the Wing," the museum's upcoming large-screen film that compares natural and mechanical flight.
December 7
Exhibition: Homage to Franz Kline: Photographs by Aaron Siskind opened at the Museum of American Art with 48 works, celebrating the friendship between the two artists. In a subsequent public program, Siskind discussed that friendship as well as his own life and work.
December 7-9
Milestone: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its 13th annual Christmas at the Smithsonian Weekend for Smithsonian Associates, highlighted by a festive dinner and tree-trimming party in the Castle.
December 10
New Facility: The Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution Building was designated as the site for the Smithsonian Information Center, a central point for visitor information and orientation to the Institution.
December 13
Graduation: Thirty-five high school students graduated from the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's Career Awareness Program, part of the Institution's affirmative action initiative, which features a special educational program for District of Columbia high school students.
December 13 Milestone: The first artifact--a jar filled with Pacific Halibut plankton
specimens--was placed in storage at the Museum Support Center, to be followed by millions of other objects and specimens from the Smithsonian collections.

<<<Page: 18>>>

December 13
Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum hosted a party in honor of Secretary Adams to introduce him to the friends of the Smithsonian Institution in New York City.
December 14
Exhibition: The opening of the eighth annual Trees of Christmas, an exhibition developed by the Office of Horticulture in conjunction with the Museum of American History, included 12 trees decorated to display the ethnic, artistic and cultural use of the Christmas tree.
December 14
Special Event: The Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates held its 14th annual Christmas dinner dance in the Museum of Natural History. The proceeds, along with those from the Washington Craft Show, were used to support 29 projects throughout the Institution.
December 21
Exhibition: Japanese Calligraphy. Traditional styles of Japanese writing, as well as cursive styles inspired by Chinese models developed during the 8th through 12th centuries, were displayed at the Freer Gallery in this exhibition of screens, hanging scrolls and hand scrolls. ,
December 26-31
Special Event: "Holiday Celebration," the Museum of American History's annual celebration, drew on the talents of more than 70 musical groups, dramatic performers, artisans and cooks to demonstrate the customs of 22 countries and cultures now practiced during Christmas, Hanukkah and New Year's festivities in the United States. The celebration attracted more than 115,000 visitors.
December 31
Visitors: An estimated 23.5 million visits were recorded at the Smithsonian's 13 museums in Washington, D.C., in 1984. Peak tourist months were June and July, during the Folklife Festival, the Aditi exhibition at the Museum of Natural History, and the introduction of the new IMAX film, "The Dream Is Alive," at the Air and Space Museum.
January
Acquisition: Successful negotiations began for the purchase of an unparalleled treasury of Islamic and Persian paintings and manuscripts assembled between 1900 and 1943 by Henri Vever, a French Jeweler. The collection provides a comprehensive survey of the art of the Persian book and is considered one of the most significant purchases in the Institution's history.

<<<Page: 19>>>

January
Acquisition: A premier collection of butterflies from North and South America, numbering 100,000 specimens, was acquired by the Museum of Natural History. Included are many species previously not represented in the Smithsonian collection and species previously unknown to scientists.
January °
Gift: Gamez and Bolanos, two uninhabited and virtually undisturbed islands off the Pacific coast of Panama, were donated by Mrs. Jean Niemier to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute through the Nature Conservancy's International Program in honor of her late husband, Edward A. "Ed" Niemeir.
January
Grants Review: The Office of Fellowships and Grants convened advisory councils to approve Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program grants.
January
New Program: The Educational Fellowship was established by the Office of Fellowships and Grants to support minority students while they pursue graduate study in a relevant Smithsonian field.
January
Report: "Role of Family in the Promotion of Science Literacy," final report for a National Science Foundation grant, was completed by Smithsonian Office of Education Research.
January 11
Acquisitions: The Museum of American Art announced the gift of 311 paintings, sculptures, drawings and collages from Container Corporation of America, including works by Leonard Baskin, Joseph Cornell, Willem de Kooning, Jacob Lawrence, Larry Rivers, James Rosenquist and Ben Shahn.
January 11
Exhibition: Spanning Niagara: The International Bridges, 1848-1962, an exhibition of approximately 75 prints, drawings and photographs at the Museum of American History, showed the technical and aesthetic challenges met by the 13 bridges built over the Niagara River to link the United States and Canada.
January 13-15
Workshop: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center in Rockville, Md., sponsored a workshop in which 15 experts discussed landscape ecology. Future meetings are planned in January 1986 and January 1987 to continue the task of developing a better theoretical basis for this field of ecology.

<<<Page: 20>>>

January 15
Exhibition: Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America opened at the Museum of American Art on the anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr's birth. A month-long series of related public programs, "A Festival of Afro-American Arts," included lectures, a musical revue, films, readings, a dance performance and conversations with contemporary artists. Among these events, "Forum '85: A Question of Place," documenting the status of the Afro-American visual artist in the contemporary marketplace, was made possible by a grant from the Metropolitan Life Foundation.
January 16
New Series: A series of orientation gatherings was initiated by the Staff, Volunteer and Intern Services Unit of the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center to provide Smithsonian interns with an opportunity to meet their peers and to learn about the Institution as a whole.
January 18
Exhibition: Peace and Friendship: Indian Peace Medals in the United States opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
January 18-21
Inaugural Events: Seven Smithsonian museums remained open until 9 p.m. for four days during the week of the Presidental inaugural. Special concerts were offered in the Air and Space Museum and in the Museum of American History. One of the official Inaugural Balls was held in the Air and Space Museum.
January 29-30
Seminar: Dr. Reuven Feuerstein, Israeli psychologist, in collaboration with the Smithsonian Kellogg Project and the Capital Children's Museum in Washington, D.C., presented a two-day seminar at the Smithsonian entitled "The Mediated Learning Experience" for about 70 selected participants.
January 30-February 1
Special Project: A team of 15 conservators and scientists from the Conservation Analytical Laboratory made an extensive study of the condition of the various parts of the Wright Brothers Flyer in preparation for restoration by the staff of the Air and Space Museum.
February
Awards: The Torch, the Smithsonian's staff newspaper produced by the Office of Public Affairs, received an Award of Excellence (second place) in the annual writing competition of the Washington Chapter of the Society of Technical Communication and subsequently a first prize in the Society's international competition. Society awards also went to Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, the brochure Science at the Smithsonian and several individual
stories of the Smithsonian News Service. Research Reports also won top honors for writing and design in the annual competition of the American Association of Museums.

<<<Page: 21>>>

February
Film: The Office of Telecommunications completed a half-hour film for educational use. Its working title is "Coral Reefs and the Discovery of New Resources."
February °
Milestone: A theme for the inaugural exhibition and associated programs of the International Center was selected. The exhibition, scheduled to open in the Spring of 1987, is tentatively entitled "Generations" and will focus on the universal experience of birth.
February
Research: The gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, an instrument for the analysis of complicated mixtures of organic materials in very small samples and the only one of its kind in the United States totally devoted to work on museum materials, became operational.
February 1
Exhibition: Conservation of Modern Art, an exhibition outlining the treatment and restoration of 26 works from the Hirshhorn Museum's collection, opened at the museum supported by the Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.
February 7-8
Colloquium/Concert: "The Art of Jazz Improvisation: A Festival of Traditional and Contemporary Approaches," held at the Museum of American History, included performances by jazz artists Clark Terry, Archie Shepp, Eddie Barefield and Doc Cheatham and a colloquium chaired by Dr. Leonard Goines, professor of Jazz History at New York University.
February 8
Restoration: The restoration of the 1903 Wright Flyer, the first machine to achieve controlled, powered, heavier-than-air flight, began at the Air and Space Museum. The five-month project was completed in a special gallery that allowed visitors to watch the restoration.
February 13
New Research: Dr. M. James Blackman and Dr. Rita P. Wright started a major archaeometrical project on the production and distribution of ceramics in fourth and third millenia B.C. Middle Asia with the help of funding provided by the Scholarly Studies Program. This project is a cooperative effort between the Conservation Analytical Laboratory and a number of archaeological institutions in Europe and the Middle East.

<<<Page: 22>>>

February 15
Exhibition: The National Portrait Gallery opened the exhibition Joseph Wright: American Artist, 1756-1793, accompanied by a full biographical study and the first catalogue raisonne of his work.
February 15
Panel Discussion: In conjunction with the opening of the Museum of American Art exhibition LIFE: The Second Decade, 1946-1955, six LIFE photographers reminisced about their magazine careers in a program co-sponsored by .the Smithsonian Resident Associates.
February 17-March 18
Special Program: The Office of Museum Programs and USIA co-sponsored a new program, "Collections: Management, Preventive Care and Conservation," enabling 13 international museum professionals to study various aspects of collections Management at the Smithsonian and at host museums in six U.S. cities.
February 18-19
Workshop: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center Facility at Edgewater, Md., and the National Science Foundation convened a group of 50 international experts on the metabolic processes operating below the soil surface in tidal salt marshes.
February 20
Exhibition: Jim Dine: Five Themes, a traveling exhibition organized by the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
February 25-April 4
Field Course: The Smithsonian Tropical Research’ Institute and the University of Panama offered the first Graduate Field Course in Marine Ecology. Attendance by a visiting instructor, Dr. Peter W. Glynn, from the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, and students from Mexico, Venezuela, Costa Rica, Ecuador and Colombia, was made possible by a grant to STRI from the Tinker Foundation.
February 27
Lecture Series: A five-part "Exploring Space" lecture series, in which wellknown space scientists participated, began at the Air and Space Museum. The series continued through June.
March
Acquisition: The Museum of American History and the Pilgrim Society of Plymouth, Mass., jointly acquired a rare silver wine cup that belonged to William Bradford, governor of the Plymouth Colony. On June 14, the cup went on display for approximately two years at the Museum of American History.

<<<Page: 23>>>

March
Contracts Awarded: Leon Van Speybroeck of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory was selected as Telescope Scientist for the Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility and an SAO proposal to build a High Resolution Camera for that spacecraft was accepted for "definition phase" funding.
March
Grant: The National Endowment for the Arts awarded two grants for the production of two new versions of the Office of Telecommunications' film "American Picture Palaces," one a short-subject, the other a half-hour documentary for Public Broadcasting System telecast.
March
Milestone: The National Museum of Natural History celebrated the 75th anniversary of the opening of its present building with a series of events and exhibitions, installations, and publications.
March A New Service: Public tours of the original Smithsonian Institution Building were initiated through the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center's Castle docent program.
March 2
Colloquium: "Public Enjoyment of Irish Legacies: Castles, Gardens and Scientific Wonder" featured a joint illustrated presentation on Ireland's lasting treasures by The Hon. Desmond Guinness and the Seventh Earl of Rosse.
March 7
Milestone: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Translations Publishing Program Review Committee, composed of representatives of four museums, met to rank the proposals received for translation of publications funded with Special Foreign Currency.
March 24-29
Seminar: The National Zoo conducted a five-day seminar, sponsored by Smithsonian National Associates, on animal communication and the Zoo's related research projects and specialized equipment.
March 29
Exhibition: Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotapaxi by Frederic Edwin Church opened at the Museum of American Art with 38 works documenting the artist's extended fascination with the Ecuadorian volcano. A related symposium was also held.

<<<Page: 24>>>

April
Research: Stephen Hubbell of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and Peter Ashton of the Harvard Arboretum established a mapping project to study tropical tree diversity and population dynamics at the Pasoh Forest Reserve in conjunction with the Forest Institute of Malaysia. This study is similar to a project underway at Barro Colorado Island, Panama, and will permit comparisons of forest dynamics between Old and New World tropical rain forests.
April
Seminar: John Holt, educator, consultant and author, conducted a seminar on nonschool educational means at the Smithsonian's Office of Educational Research.
April 10
Exhibition: A major exhibition entitled African Masterpieces from the Musee de l'Homme, one of the most significant collections of African art in the world, opened at the Museum of African Art.
April 11
Exhibitions: William Edward West, 1788-1857: Kentucky Painter opened at the National Portrait Gallery. The first exhibition of West's work, it included portraits of Lord Byron, Robert E. Lee and other prominent personalities of the ‘period. A companion exhibition, A Truthful Likeness: Chester Harding and His Portraits, was also on view during this period.
April 15
Grant Awards: The Office of Fellowships and Grants designated the 1985-1986 fellowships recipients. The first two recipients of the Rockerfeller Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities grant were also announced.
April 15
Installation: The Museum of American Art installed "Achelous and Hercules," a major mural painting by Thomas Hart Benton. This important 1947 work was a gift from Allied Stores Corporation and a museum purchase through the Smithsonian's Major Acquisitions Fund.
April 15
Lecture Series: "Connoisseurship, Collectors and Collections: African Masterpieces from the Musee de 1'Homme," an eight-session series of lectures was launched, presented and co-sponsored by the Museum of African Art and the Smithsonian's Resident Associate Program.
April 16 Course: The Resident Associate Program launched a course on "The Television Age"
featuring lectures by such distinguished television news correspondents as Roger Mudd, Ted Koppel, Sam Donaldson and Lesley Stahl.

<<<Page: 25>>>

April 21
Award: A first-place award was given to the Office of Horticulture for its display in the Maryland Orchid Society Show.
April 21-24
Workshop: Forty noted soil science authorities gathered at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center to evaluate the present status of the applications of soil science to environmental research and to write a position paper on future needs.
April 23-27
Conference: The National Zoo acted as host for the "Smithsonian Interbureau Conference on Tropical Biology," focusing on areas where cooperative efforts could be effectively applied. Formal presentations by Tropical Research Center, Museum of Natural History and National Zoo staff were followed by workshop sessions at the Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Va.
April 24-28
Workshop: A Kellogg Project workshop on "Conservation Through the Looking Glass," i.e., carrying out conservation work in the exhibition galleries where it can be interpreted for the public, was held at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco.
April 26
Exhibition: Designers of the Jet Age, devoted to the careers and contributions of two renowned aircraft designers, Ed Heinemann and Clarence "Kelly" Johnson, opened at the Air and Space Museum.
April 26
Exhibition: The Glazed Ceramic Tradition of Seto and Mino Wares. Recent research in these neighboring pottery districts generated this Freer exhibition examining the development of glazed ceramics during Japan's medieval period (13th-16th centuries).
April 26-28 Special Event: One hundred craftspeople from 28 states and the District of Columbia participated in the third annual Washington Craft Show, a fundraising activity sponsored by the Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.
April 27-28
Special Event: The Air and Space Museum's forth annual Paul E. Garber Facility Open House attracted more than 8,000 visitors.

<<<Page: 26>>>

Award: Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley was presented the Medal of Freedom by President Ronald Reagan.
May a Award: "Telling Lives: That Damn Cowboy," a production of the Office of Telecommunications, received a CINE Golden Eagle Award.
Film: "The Blue Planet," a film on marine ecosystems produced by the Office of Telecommunications for the Marine Life Hall of the Museum of Natural History, was completed.
Outreach: Smithsonian Museums At-A-Glance, a full-color leaflet designed to promote pre-visit orientation, was produced by the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center for distribution through the tour and travel industry.
Publication: An essay on 19th-century horticulture, co-authored by James Buckler and Katheryn Meehan, appeared in the exhibition catalogue for The Art of Gardening--Maryland Landscapes and the American Garden Aesthetic 1730-1930, presented by the Historical Society of Talbot County, Md.
May 1
Visit: Her Majesty Queen Noor al-Hussein, Queen of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, visited the Freer Gallery of Art.
May 2-4
Symposium: A conference on music in America, held at the Museum of American History, brought together some 50 artists, scholars and organizational representatives to discuss the Smithsonian's role in the research and presentation of American musical forms.
May 6
Appointment: Dean Anderson, Acting Assistant Secretary for History and Art, was named Smithsonian Under Secretary.
May 7
Visit: Mme. Georges Pompidou, widow of the former President of France, toured the galleries, garden and plaza of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

<<<Page: 27>>>

May 8
New Study: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries launched a preservation planning program as one of ten libraries selected by the Association of Research Libraries to conduct a self-study to recommend new preservation policies and programs.
May 9
Course: The Resident Associate Program began a course on "The Ascendancy of Asia: The Pacific Community in the 21st Century," in cooperation with the Woodrow Wilson Center's Asia Program and the Asia Foundation.
May 10
Graduation: Commencement exercises were held for the second class of the CooperHewitt Museum and Parsons School of Design Master's Degree Program in the History of Decorative Arts.
May 12-June 10 International Program: The Office of Museum Programs and USIA co-sponsored the sixth annual "Education in Museums" project for 12 international museum professionals.
May 13
Award: The Charles Lang Freer Medal was presented to Prof. Stella Kramrisch, distinguished Indianist.
May 13-17
Training: "Techniques, Uses, Differences and Operating Parameters of Current Paper Suction Tables," an advanced training course taught at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory by seven expert instructors, was attended by 20 conservators.
May 14
Exhibition: The Arts of South Asia. In observance of "Aditi: The Festival of India at the Smithsonian," the Freer presented its largest exhibition of painting and sculpture from the Indian subcontinent, including a rare 13th-14th-century bronze bull and other new acquisitions displayed for the first time.
May 14-18
Milestone: Secretary Adams and nine other Smithsonian speakers traveled to Tokyo, Japan for the first international lecture series sponsored by the Smithsonian National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program. Many of the sessions were translated simultaneously into Japanese.

<<<Page: 28>>>

May 16
Exhibition: Celestial Images: Astronomical Charts, 1500-1900, at the Museum
of American History, displayed 39 rare depictions of star patterns and planetary systems that illustrate a unity of art and science from the Renaissance to the end of the 19th century. :
May 16
Special Event: "National Zoofari," a Friends of the National Zoo's annual fundraising event, featured entertainment and silent auctions in support of the T.H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund.
May 19
Special Event: The Office of Horticulture hosted an open house for Smithsonian staff and volunteers at its greenhouses, providing guests the opportunity to view the plant collections under cultivation.
May 19-23
Seminar: "Aircraft Restoration," a week-long seminar held at the Paul E. Garber Facility, was sponsored by the Smithsonian National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program.
May 20-22
Training: A course on "Metals for Conservators," organized by the Objects Speciality Group of the American Institute for Conservation, was cosponsored by the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
May 21
Groundbreaking: Secretary Adams and other Smithsonian officials, officials of the National Park Service and members of the Fort Stanton Civic Association participated in groundbreaking ceremonies for the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum Exhibition Hall, Education Department and Public Space.
May 21
Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum celebrated the opening of the exhibition Timeless'Sources: Rare Books from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the publication of an accompanying handbook.
May 22
Chairman Elected: Sydney Lewis, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Best Products Company Inc., Richmond, Va., was elected Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, succeeding Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan (D-N.Y.).

<<<Page: 29>>>

May 25
Summer Hours: Hours at the Air and Space Museum were extended to 7:30 p.m. seven days a week between May 25 and Labor Day.
May 28-31
Training: An advanced training course on wood identification was taught by Dr. Richard Dodd at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
June
Acquisition: Asian lions, one male and one female, were added to the collections of the National Zoo as part of a breeding program between cooperating zoos.
June
Awards: Two Smithsonian News Service stories, published by the Office of Public Affairs, received first and third place awards in the National Association of Government Comunicators Blue Pencil competition. The television public service announcement "Kids at the Smithsonian," with actress Sandy Duncan, was awarded an “NAGC Gold Screen award. "Radio Smithsonian," an Office of Telecommunications production, won two NAGC awards: "Cowboys," a program in the American Stories mini-series, won Best of Competition, and the series as a whole won the Outstanding Audiovisual Production honors.
June
Grant: The Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation awarded $49,000 to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute for fellowships to Latin American students to conduct predoctoral research at STRI.
June
Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries was awarded three grants from the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund, one to publish scientific records in non-Roman alphabets, a second to purchase back issues of journals for the STRI Branch Library, and the third to acquire an image digitizer that permits rapid teletransmission of documents.
June
National Event: The Festival of India 1985-1986 opened in Washington, D.C., with Smithsonian-wide participation planned for the next 18 months, including exhibitions, seminars, classes, a major portion of the Festival of American Folklife, radio programs and publications.
June Publication: <A Summary Profile of Smithsonian International Activities, the
first comprehensive survey of Smithsonian activities around the world, was published by the Office of Service and Protocol.

<<<Page: 30>>>

June
Publication: Smithsonian Institution Libraries Research Guide No. 4, African
Art: A Bibliographic Guide by Janet L. Stanley, Chief Librarian of the Museum of African Art Branch Library, was published by Africana Publishing Company, a division of Holmes and Meier.
June
Special Program: Dr. Jerry Bell of the National Science Foundation spoke on community involvement in science education projects at the Community Science Project "Recognition Night" at Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Lab, an event sponsored by the Smithsonian Office of Educational Research.
June 3
Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened Wine: Celebration and Ceremony, a major exhibition focusing on design related to the history of winemaking and wine-drinking.
June 3-7
Program: Fifteen students from the Multiculture Bilingual High School in Washington, D.C., participated in a one week junior externship program in nine curatorial, administrative, design and educations areas. The program was organized by the Office of Museum Programs.
June 4
Acquisition: The Museum of African Art exercised the first option on a major collection of African art objects from the 12th/15th century to the mid-20th century, assembled over the years by a private European collector.
June 4
Exhibition: Aditi: A Celebration of Life, a major exhibition marking the Festival of India 1985-1986, opened at the Museum of Natural History. The exhibition, organized by the Museum of Natural History Office of Exhibits and the Office of Folklife Programs, incorporated 2,000 objects with India's venerable folk traditions as expressed by 40 craftsmen and performing artists in a setting simulating Indian village life. Plants native to India were provided by the Office of Horticulture to complement the exhibition.
June 4 Special Event: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum hosted the opening ceremonies of Museum Mile Night in New York City. Mayor Edward I. Koch officiated, and more than 8,000 visitors toured the museum in a three-hour period.
June 5 Award: Christine Jones and William Forman of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory received the Bruno Rossi Award of the American Astronomical Society for their research on hot X-ray coronae around elliptical galaxies.
Nv LS)

<<<Page: 31>>>

June 5
Exhibition: Representation Abroad, a major exhibition of representational art by 16 artists from Australia, Colombia, Great Britain, France, Italy, West Germany and Spain, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, previewed on June 4 by 651 guests, including eleven of the artists.
June 5
Series: "Conserving Traditional Cultures," a four-part film/lecture series, was launched. It was organized and co-sponsored by the Office of Folklife Programs, Department of Anthropology, Human Studies Film Archives, and the Resident Associates Program, and featured four award-winning ethnographic films focusing on cultural conservation issues, with interpretations and discussions by leading folklore and anthropology scholars. :
June 8
Workshop: A program of films, African board games and music was held at the Museum of African Art for children and their families in connection with the exhibit African Mankala.
June 9
Premiere: The Resident Associate Program screened "Wagner," a nine-hour film epic about the operatic genius, in its Washington premiere.
June 10
Internships: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began the first session of "Intern '85," a high school intern program which brought 33 students from across the country to participate in a learning/service program at the Smithsonian.
June 10
Workshops: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its summer workshop series for teachers. For local teachers, eight courses ranging from architecture to insects were offered, and for teachers from the rest of the country, a national seminar on the teaching of writing through the use of museums.
June 10-12
Symposium: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center sponsored a symposium on "Watershed Research Perspectives."
June 12
Exhibition: The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers, the first major exhibition of both Albers' graphics and textiles, opened at the Renwick Gallery on the artist's 86th birthday. In a related public program, Nicholas Fox Weber, executive director of the Josef Albers Foundation, discussed the artist and her work.

<<<Page: 32>>>

June 12-14
Training: A training course on polymer chemistry was given by Dr. James Mark and Dr. George Odian at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
June 15
Special Event: The world-renowned sitarist Ravi Shankar performed as part of the Festival of India at the Smithsonian in a concert sponsored by the Resident Associate Program.
June 17 and 20
International Project: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries assembled an ad hoc American Review Committee of distinguished museologists to make final revisions to English-language entries in the Dictionarium Museologicum, a multi-lingual glossary of 2,066 museum-related terms, jointly produced by the International Council of Museums and UNESCO.
June 19
Film Premiere: "The Dream Is Alive," a spectacular new large-screen film that offers an insider's view of America's space shuttle program, opened at the Air
and Space Museum's Samuel P. Langley Theater. Footage was taken by astronauts
during three 1984 space shuttle flights.
June 21
Exhibition: The Martha Jackson Memorial Collection opened at the Museum of American Art with 66 works selected from the 127 paintings, sculptures and works on paper donated to the Museum of American Art by Mr. and Mrs. David Anderson.
June 21-24
Symposium: "The Canvas of Culture: Rediscovery of the Past as Adaptation for the Future" was developed as a major Festival of India program.
June 26-30; July 3-7
Folklife Festival: The 19th annual Festival of American Folklife featured a mela--an'Indian fair, Louisiana folklife, and the cultural traditions of indigenous, ethnic and regional communities. Traditional foodways and dance parties were also included.
June 27
Agreement: An agreement facilitating joint research, cooperative programs, and exchanges of scholarships, exhibitions and publications with Malaysian institutions was signed by Secretary Adams and Malaysian Ambassador Dato' Lew Sip Hon on behalf of the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports.
ie) wa

<<<Page: 33>>>

June 28
Exhibition: Fabled Cloth: Batik from Java's North Coast opened at the CooperHewitt Museum.
June 28
Exhibition: A living microcosm of a Maine coastal ecosystem, housed in a 3,000gallon aquarium simulating natural conditions, went on display at the Museum of Natural History.
June 28
Telecast: "The Work of Peace," a half-hour film produced by the Office of Telecommunications on the Treaty of Paris of 1783, had its national premiere on the PBS network. The film won the Silver Medal of the International Film and TV Festival of N.Y., the Silver Award at the Houston International Film Festival, a CINE Golden Eagle and second place in the 1985 National Educational Film Festival.
June 30-July 1
Update: Giant pandas Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing mated four times. Subsequent urine samples indicated a possible pregnancy.
June/July
Publication: A major five-part series on the Smithsonian Institution appeared in the French magazine Paris Match.
July
Gift: Amber collector Jacob Brodzinsky donated to the Museum of Natural History his collection of rare pieces of amber some 24 million years old.
July
Milestone: 18,616 public inquiries, a record monthly high, were received by the Telephone Information Program of the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center.
July
Publication: As part of the Festival of India, a 13-part series on "India Today" was distributed by the Smithsonian News Service, a monthly feature-story service of the Office of Public Affairs. The series, based on information gathered by two Public Affairs writers who traveled in India for six weeks, gave a first-hand acount of the colorful and complex past, present and future of India.
July Publication: Communication and Non-communication by Cephalopods by Martin
Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, was published by Indiana University Press as part of its series on animal communication.

<<<Page: 34>>>

July 1
Milestone: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory marked the 30th anniversary of the move of its headquarters to Cambridge, Mass., and the beginning of its research association with Harvard College Observatory.
July 1
New Project: The Directorate of International Activities was assigned overall institutional responsibility to coordinate research and planning for the Smithsonian commemoration of the Columbus Quincentenary in 1992.
July 2
Redesign: The design concept and prototypes for uniform exterior identification and direction signs were completed by the Office of Exhibits Central and the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center in Phase I of the Institution-wide exterior graphic information program.
July 9
Research: The National Zoo sent a second shipment of golden lion tamarin monkeys to Brazil's Poco das Anta Preserve. Twelve animals in two groups were released in late July as part of the Zoo's ongoing project to save this species from extinction.
July 11
Concert Series: The 1985 summer concert series, "Sunset Serenades," began at the Zoo. Evening performances were held each week until August 29.
July 12
Telecast: "In Open Air: A Portrait of the American Impressionists," a half-hour
film produced by the Office of Telecommunications, was telecast nationally over PBS.
July 17
International Protocol: The Government of Panama extended to the Smithsonian Tropical-Research Institute the prerogatives and benefits that correspond to International Missions operating in the Republic of Panama.
July 17
Symposium: "Ten Years After Apollo-Soyuz," held at the Air and Space Museum to mark the anniversary of the joint U.S.-U.S.S.R. space program, brought together leading scientists, historians and policymakers from the United States and abroad to discuss cooperation and competition in space. The three astronauts and two cosmonauts who participated in the joint mission were present.

<<<Page: 35>>>

July 22
Appointment: Barnabus McHenry, general counsel for the Reader's Digest Association Inc., was appointed to the Smithsonian Board of Regents.
July 23
Significant Birth: Ryma, a male giraffe, was born in the presence of hundreds of Zoo visitors.
July 24
Visit: His Excellency Li Xiannian, president of the People's Republic of China, toured the Air and Space Museum and viewed the new large-screen film, "The Dream is Alive."
July 25
Exhibition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries held a reception to open Panorama of India, its exhibition of books, plates and manuscripts relating to India, 1698-1898, in the Dibner Library, Special Collections Branch.
July 29
Experiment Flown: An infrared telescope (IRT) designed and built by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in cooperation with the University of Arizona and the Marshall Space Flight Center was launched aboard Space Shuttle Flight 51F for a week-long mission as part of Spacelab 2.
July 31
Exhibition: An exhibition entitled Igbo Arts: Community and Cosmos, the first exhibition ever presented on the art of the Igbo people of Africa, opened at the Museum of African Art.
August
Award: A plastic tote bag designed to promote Associate membership, created by the Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center in cooperation with Smithsonian magazine, received a merit award in the 1985 Printing Industries of American Graphic Award Competition.
August
Calendars: 1986 Smithsonian Family Learning Calendar, prepared by the Smithsonian Office of Educational Research, was offered for sale through the Smithsonian museums shops, bookstores and catalogs. The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education published Museum Adventures: A Year at the Smithsonian, a calendar advertising education programs at the Institution's. Washington museums, the Zoo and the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center.

<<<Page: 36>>>

August 4-10
Outreach: Thirty-five high school students and eight teachers participated in an ecology and environmental educational seminar offered by the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and Panama's Ministry of Education to acquaint high school students with local marine and terrestrial environments. The seminar was supported by Special Education Outreach funds.
August 6
Exhibition: The Museum of American History marked the 40th anniversary of the dropping of the first atomic bomb in Building the Bomb: Forty Years after Hiroshima. The display related the history of the Manhattan Project through photographs, documents and artifacts from Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as bomb casings of the types of bombs dropped on the two cities.
August 9
Exhibition: History as Seen from the National Museum of American History, an annual display of black-and-white photographs taken by Smithsonian photographers, presented images of protests, celebrations, parades, and dedications that took place near the museum since the beginning of 1984.
August 10
Celebration: American artist Larry Rivers and his 13th Street Band performed at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in a preview concert for the 20th anniversary of the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.
August 19
Groundbreaking: A ceremony was held to mark the beginning of the Zoo's Olmstead Walk reconstruction, a project to rejuvenate the main pedestrian pathway in preparation for the Zoo's centennial in 1989.
September
Acquisition: The suit and helmet worn by Sen. Jake Garn (R-Utah), a regent of the Smithsonian Institution, on his Discovery shuttle flight was accessioned by the Air and Space Museum.
September
Presentation: Dr. John Falk and Lynn Dierking of the Smithsonian Office of Educational Research presented a paper, "The Community Science Project: A New Approach to Environmental Education," at the Third International Conference on the Nature and Teaching of Environmental Studies and Sciences in Higher Education, Sunderland, England.
September Restoration: The original 1902 ceiling fresco in the South Tower room of the
Smithsonian Institution Building was uncovered during preliminary restoration activities for the Smithsonian Information Center.

<<<Page: 37>>>

September
Space Sciences: Precise observations of Comet Giacobini-Zinner were carried out by astronomers at the SAO-administered Oak Ridge Observatory to assist in the historic comet rendezvous of the ICE spacecraft.
September
Technology Advancement: The Air and Space Museum announced development of a System for Digital Display that can potentially store up to 100,000 images of documents, maps, books, drawings and three-dimensional artifacts on optical disks. These, in turn, can be easily indexed, searched and images reproduced or telephoned to locations around the world. A patent was subsequently applied for.
September
Television: The Office of Public Affairs produced two public service announcements for national television entitled "America's Memories," with Bob Hope narrating. The spots were close captioned for the hearing impaired and subsequently translated into Spanish.
September 1
Research: "Hopi Social Boundary Maintenance and Exchange Relationships," a new major research project at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory in cooperation with a number of museums and universities, was launched by Dr. Ronald L. Bishop and Dr. Veletta Canouts.
September 1
Acquisition: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory, with special funding provided by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, acquired unique collection of reference materials for the analysis of textile dyes, a collection assembled by one of the foremost international experts in this field.
September 4
Publication: The Joseph Henry Papers published the fifth volume of the papers of the Institution's first secretary, documenting the years 1841-1843.
September 4
Workshop: In conjunction with the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education presented the first in a series of workshops on making historic sites accessible to disabled visitors.
September 5
Milestone: The first North American exhibition of antiquities from Syria opened at the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore, Md., organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and the Directorate General of Antiquities, Syrian Arab Republic. The exhibition, entitled Fbla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria, consisted of 281 objects representing 10,000 years of history.

<<<Page: 38>>>

September 6
Exhibition: Painting and Calligraphy of the Ch'ing Dynasty. Culminating a series of exhibitions, this selection of works (1644-1912) at the Freer showed the artistic impact on Chinese painting and calligraphy of cultural, political and economic change during China's last dynasty.
September 6
Exhibition: Private Lives of Public Figures: The Nineteenth Century Family Print. Opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
September 7 Workshop: "Such a Pretty Face: Igbo Maiden Masks," a program for children and adults, included creating replicas of the Igbo masks featured in the current exhibition at the Museum of African Art.
September 9-13 Training: E. Benner Larsen, from the Conservation Training School in Copenhagen, gave a course on "High Quality Molding and Casting of Museum Objects" at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.
September 11 Renovation: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries began a major renovation project designed to strengthen the Natural History Branch Library through physical expansion and consolidation of its collection as well as to consolidate the central administrative and processing offices of the Libraries.
September 13 Special Event: Smithsonian Associates participating in the 7th annual Smithsonian/Oxford Seminar attended a Convocation and reception in the Castle before departing for England.
September 15
Exhibition: The Renaissance: Black Arts of the Twenties, an exhibition displaying the cultural history of the New Negro Movement of the 1920s, opened at the Anacostia Museum.
September 16
Milestone: First live television images of Comet Halley were transmitted nationwide from the Whipple Observatory via the CBS Morning News.

<<<Page: 39>>>

September 16
New Program: The Office of Fellowships and Grants held its first "Visiting Associate Program," designed to increase knowledge of Smithsonian research and opportunities in the minority academic community.
September 18
Premiere: "Huey Long," a 90-minute documentary by Ken Burns, had its premiere at the first of the 1985-86 Frank Nelson Doubleday Lecture Series, sponsored by Doubleday and Company, Inc., and the Museum ofeAmerican History.
September 20
Publication: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Office of Printing and Photographic Services published The Electronic Sky, a collection of 40 computer-processed astronomical images for amateur astronomers, schools, and planetaria, the most extensive collection published to date.
September 20
Special Event: Singer Karen Akers and her trio launched the 20th Anniversary celebration of the Resident Associate Program. The anniversary festivities continued into the fall and included performances, lectures, and receptions.
September 22
Special Event: The Minister of Culture and Sciences of Greece, Melina Mercouri, delivered the inaugural lecture for the Resident Associate Program course, "Today's Greece: A Modern Odyssey," a 20th Anniversary program.
September 23-27
Training: "Glass Restoration," an advanced conservation course, was conducted at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory by Sandra Davidson of the Institute of Archaeology in London.
September 27 Exhibition: Islamic Metalwork. This exhibition of the Freer's small but select collection of Islamic metalwork resulted from a year-and-a-half collaborative effort beween the technical laboratory and the curatorial staff. September 30 Update: Construction work continued on the Smithsonian's Center for African,
Near Eastern and Asian Cultures. The roof was completed and topped with drainage gravel and top soil in preparation for planting of the gardens.

<<<Page: 40>>>

Appendix 1
Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1985
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS Honorable Warren E. Burger, The Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor Honorable George H. W. Bush, The Vice President of the United States, ex officio Honorable E. J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah Honorable Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona
Honorable James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee
Honorable Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts Honorable Silvio 0. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California
Honorable David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of Columbia Honorable Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas
Dr. William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey
Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of Columbia Dr. Murray Gell-Mann, Citizen of California
Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Citizen of Pennsylvania Honorable Carlisle H. Humelsine, Citizen of Virginia
Mr. Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin
Mr. Barnabas McHenry, Citizen of New York

<<<Page: 41>>>

Neil Harris, Chairman Dore Ashton Paul Fussell Stephen Jay Gould Christian C. Hohenlohe Thomas P. Hughes Ada Louise Huxtable Alice S. Ilchman Oliver O. Jensen Bennetta Jules-Rosette Sherman E. Lee Thomas E. Lovejoy Peter R. Marler Robert M. May Matthew S. Meselson Sidney W. Mintz Arthur Mitchell Frederick W. Mote David F. Musto Jaroslav J. Pelikan Peter H. Raven Carl E. Schorske Emily D. T. Vermeule Dave Warren
Robert McC.-Adams, Vice Adm. Edward H. Martin, USN Chairman Jacqueline Ponder
Ann P. Bradley Lt. Gen. Keith A. Smith, USMC
Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, USAF Vice Adm. Benedict L. Stabile, USCG
Richard H. Jones Lt. Gen. Louis C. Wagner, Jr., USA
Donald M. Koll
Dr. Lew Allen Dr. Robert Frosch
Professor Luis Alvarez Professor Charles Gillispie Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin Mr. Gerald D. Griffin
Dr. John Brademas Dr. Glenn Seaborg
Professor A. Hunter Dupree Professor James Van Allen
Professor Freeman Dyson

<<<Page: 42>>>

Mrs.
Mrs.
Otto L. Spaeth, Honorary Chairman A. Alfred Taubman, Chairman Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President
Nancy B. Wellin, Vice-President
Robert F. Shapiro, Vice-President Irvin A. Levy, Vice-President/Treasurer Dana M. Raymond, Secretary
Caroline R. Alexander Eli Broad Eli Broad Francis de Marneffe George C. Dillon Ahmet M. Ertegun Walter B. Ford II Benjamin D. Holloway Henry. C...Johnson:. «Dwight M. Kendall Charles Kessler Gilbert H. Kinney Howard W. Lipman Richard Manoogian Alexander R. Mehran Julienne Michel William L. Mitchell Muriel Kallis Newman John Rosekrans, Jr. David Stickelber John A. Swearingen Dave H. Williams C. Bagley Wright
FOUNDING TRUSTEES Lawrence A. Fleischman Edsel B. Ford (deceased)
Edgar P. Richardson (deceased)
loving ers Burton
Harold O. Love Russell Lynes
William L. Richards
Robert McC. Adams Dean Anderson

<<<Page: 43>>>

Herschel Chipp, Chairman
Whitney Chadwick
Wanda Corn
James Elliott
Albert Elsen
Henry Hopkins
Harvey Jones
Margaretta Lovell
Christina Orr-Cahall
Peter Selz
Marc Simpson
Donald L. Stover
Ian McKibbin White
Constance Glenn, Chairperson E. Maurice Bloch Ruth Bowman Bram Dijkstra Beatrice Farwell Burton Fredericksen Richard Koshalek Susan Larsen-Martin Ronald Onorato Earl A. Powell III Michael Quick Josine Ianco Starrels Maurice Tuchman Susan Walther Richard V. West
Harley P. Holden, Chairman
Winslow Ames
David S. Brooke
George H. Bumgardner
Georgia Bumgardner
Robert Cardinale
Theresa Cederholm
Carl Chairenza
Anne Farnam
Charles Ferguson
Wolfgang Freitag
Tom L. Freudenheim
Hugh Gourley
Elton W. Hall
Jonathan P. Harding
Patricia Hills
Sinclair Hitchings
John Holverson
John Kirk
Elizabeth M. Kornhauser
William Lipke
Laura C. Luckey
Paul Master-Karnik
ELToOte OFEnNeCE
James O'Gorman
Ronald Onorato
Stephen Riley
Daniel Rosenfeld
David Ross
Theodore Stebbins
Katharine Watson
Peter A. Wick
Margret Craver Withers

<<<Page: 44>>>

Bernard Mergen, Chairperson
Marjory Balge
Lorraine Brown
David Driskell
Alan Fern
Lois Fink
Henry Glassie
William Homer
Charles F. Hummel
Abram Lerner
Mark J. Pachter
Phoebe B. Stanton
John Vlach
John Wilmerding
Milton Brown, Chairman Thomas N. Armstrong John I.H. Baur John Dobkin Anne d'Harnoncourt Linda S. Ferber William Gerdts Lloyd Goodrich Eugene Goossen John Howat James Humphry, III John A. Kouwenhoven Abram Lerner Russell Lynes Porter McCray Barbara Novak Clive Phillpot Jules D. Prown Joseph T. Rankin William B. Walker
Dennis Adrian Don Baum Courtney Donnell Robert Evans Richard Gray Neil Harris
Mary Jane Jacob Katharine Lee Archibald Motley Franz Schulze David Sokol
Wim de Wit
John Zukowsky
Don Foster
Bruce Guenther LaMar Harrington Marshall Hatch Martha Kingsbury Arlene Schnitzer Harvey West Virginia Wright
John Biggers William Camfield Linda Cathcart Dominique de Menil Louise Ferrari Eleanor Freed Carolyn Farb
Mimi Kilgore Caroline Law
Betty B. Marcus Peter C. Marzio Margaret McDermott Lupe Murchison Bill Robinson
Joan Seeman Robinson David Warren

<<<Page: 45>>>

CENTER FOR ASIAN ART FREER GALLERY OF ART and the ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Norman Y. Mineta, Chairman Laurence Sickman, Vice-Chairman Mrs. Jackson Burke
Kwang-chih Chang
Marvin Eisenberg
Katharine Graham
Porter McCray
John M. Rosenfield
Hugh Scott
Priscilla Soucek
Richard Weatherhead
August Heckscher, Chairman Karen Johnson Boyd Amanda Burden Rosemary Corroon Joan K. Davidson Joanne du Pont Harmon H. Goldstone Russell Lynes Kenneth Miller Arthur Ross Robert Sarnoff Marietta Tree Robert McC. Adams, ex officio Dean Anderson, ex officio
Wirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Sydney Lewis, Chairman Jerome Greene, Vice Chairman Charles Blitzer
Anne d'Harnoncourt
Thomas M. Evans
Daniel P. Moynihan
A. James Speyer
Leonard C. Yaseen
Board of Trustees
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex
Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
ex officio

<<<Page: 46>>>

JOINT SPONSORING COMMITTEE FOR THE PAPERS OF JOSEPH HENRY Frederick Seitz, Chairman
Dean W. Anderson
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.
Robert McC. Adams
Jean R. St. Clair
Henry D. Smyth
Frank E. Moss, Chairman Frances Humphrey Howard, Vice-Chairman David Driskell
John A. Friede
Colbert I. King
Richard Long
Helen Neufeld
Robert Nooter
Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal Susan Samuels
Gustave Schindler
Michael Sonnenreich
Robert Farris Thompson Walter Washington
Robert McC. Adams, ex officio Dean W. Anderson, ex officio
National Museum of American Art Commission
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy, Chairman Thomas C. Howe
Mrs. Hampton Barnes, Vice Chairman Mrs. Jaquelin Hume Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, ex officio Richard Hunt
Donald Anderson R. Crosby Kemper, Jr. Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake David Lloyd Kreeger Thomas S. Buechner Myron Kunin
James T. Demetrion, ex officio Charles Parkhurst
Mrs. Johnson Garrett David S. Purvis
Ms. Nancy Graves Mrs. John D. Rockefeiler IV Walker Hancock Mrs. Oliver Seth
R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Mrs. John Farr Simmons Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth August Heckscher Mrs. Bagley Wright
Lloyd Goodrich, Commissioner Emeritus

<<<Page: 47>>>

National Portrait Gallery Commission
Senator Jake Garn (Chairman)
Robert O. Anderson
Barry Bingham, Sr.
Thomas Mellon Evans
Katie Louchheim
Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Senator Robert H. Morgan
Barbara Novak
Frank Stanton
J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
Advisory Council for the National Museum Act
Patti Carr Black
James H. Duff
Edmund B. Gaither
Perry C. Huston
Paul H. Knappenberger
Thomas W. Leavitt (ex officio) Roger Mandle
William N. Richards (ex officio) Raymond H. Thompson
Bret Waller
Terri Weisser
James R. Buckler, Belva Jensen Carlton Lees Chairman Orchid Subcommittee Edward S. Ayensu James R. Buckler Paul E. Desautels
Mary L. Ripley

<<<Page: 48>>>

Office of Museum Programs National Advisory Committee,
W. K. Kellogg Foundation Project
William N. Richards, Chairman Jane R. Glaser, Ex officio Janet W. Solinger, Ex officio
Richard Fiske
J. 0. Grantham
Neil Harris
Philip S. Humphrey Watson Laetsch Abram Lerner William F. McSweeny Paul Perrot
Richard H. Randall, dr.
Adelle Robertson Susan Stitt Michael Templeton
Adrienne Kaeppler, Chairman
Roger Abrahams Richard Bauman Douglas Evelyn Henry Glassie Rayna Green
John Landston Gwaltny
Lloyd Herman Charlotte Heth
Ivan Karp
William Merrill
Roy Seiber
John Tchen
Carlos Velez-Ibanez
Women's Council of the Smithsonian Institution
Susan Kalcik, Chairperson Carolyn Thompson, Vice-Chair Marge D'Urso, Secretary Ruby Davis, Treasurer Roberta Geier, Historian Sherril Berger Delores Brown Diane Cook Lee Betty Beuck Derbyshire
Frances Dulay
Ann Gilstrap
Matou Goodwin Margery Gordon Victoria Hershiser Julie Hoover
Susan Jewett
Susanne Owens Koenig Christine Eason Louton Margaret Santiago Joanna Scherer Katherine Sprague Miriam Weissman

<<<Page: 49>>>

Lauranne Nash Co-Chairperson
Vicki Avera Co-Chairperson
Ray Branham
Linda Chick
Pat Chieffo
Sal Cilella
Bruce Craig
Zed David Georgina de Alba William Deiss Betty Beuck Derbyshire Kathy Dorman erica cel
Shirley Epps
Zora Felton
Joan Fram
William Gaske Eileen Hall Judith Houston Harry Jackson Gretchen Jennings Peter Kibbee
Ann Noel Staff Assistant to the Council
Betty Lathern Edward Lawson Nancy Long
Tom Lowderbaugh Eleanor McMillan Carolyn Mills Lauranne Nash
Anne Peret
Alan Postlethwaite Jacki Rand
Magda Schremp Marjorie Share Gayle’ Southworth Neil Spitzer Barbara Strickland Marge Turgel Carolyn Walker Wilcomb Washburn Rick Yamada
Ken Yellis
William J. Baroody, Jr. Chairman
Robert A. Mosbacher, Vice Chairman
Robert McCormick Adams
James A. Baker III
Theodore C. Barreaux Daniel J. Boorstin Kenneth B. Clark
Stuart
Margaret M. Heckler
Gertrude Himmelfarb Max M. Kampelman Jesse H. Oppenheimer George P. Shultz Charles Z. Wick
E. Eizenstat

<<<Page: 50>>>

Officers Chairman: Vice-Chairman: Secretary: Asst. Secretary Treasurer:
Asst. Treasurer
Mrs. Avery Faulkner
Mrs. Richard Cobb
Mrs. Edmund Wellington, Jr. : Mrs. Bruce MacLaury
Mrs. William T. Hamilton
: Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly, III
Mrs. David C. Acheson Mrs. William Alexander, II Mrs. Daniel Antonoplos Mrs. Albert Barclay, Jr. Mrs. James M. Beggs
Mrs. Huntington T. Block Mrs. Adelyn Breeskin
Mrs. George Bush
Mrs. Thomas J. Camp, Jr. Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk Mrs. James L. Collins, Jr. Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker Mrs. Stuart C. Davidson Mrs. J. Edward Day
Mrs. Sidney J. Freedberg Mrs. George C. Gerber Mrs. Parker T. Hart
Mrs. Edgar W. Holtz
Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries Mrs. George W. Jones
Mrs. Godfrey Kauffman Mrs. Roger G. Kennedy Mrs. Robert Koehler
Mrs. Henry Krieger
Mrs. Nevin E. Kuhl
Mrs. George Varick Lauder Mrs. James Lehrer
Mrs. Malcolm MacIntyre
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
Henry Roemer McPhee Donald Notman
Sam Nunn
Lawrence Bruce Olds Richard R. Palmer James R. Patton, Jr. Charles H. Percy Horace White Peters Richard Powell
C. Michael Price
S. Dillon Ripley Thomas M. Roberts
Kirby Rodriquez
Mrs. Mrs.
Robert E. Rogers Frederick B. Rooney
Mrs. Peter T. Russell Mrs. John T. Sapienza Mrs. W. Jerrold Scoutt, Jr. Mrs. Leonard Silverstein Mrs. Howard Smith, Jr. Mrs. Potter Stewart
Mrs. Mark Sullivan, III Mrs. Thomas K. Taylor Mrs. Richard L. Thompson Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen Mrs. Charles Verrill
Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler Mrs. Philip White
Mrs. Gordon Page Williams Mrs. Laurence I. Wood
Mrs.
Barold Snell

<<<Page: 51>>>

Board of Trustees
Honorary Chairmen
Mrs. Ronald Reagan Mrs. Jimmy Carter
Mrs. Gerald R. Ford Mrs. Richard M. Nixon Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
Officers
Roger L. Stevens, Chairman
Senator James A. McClure, Vice Chairman Leonard L. Silverstein, Vice Chairman Henry Strong, Vice Chairman
Frank Ikard, Secretary
Charlotte Woolard, Assistant Secretary Timothy C. Coughlin, Treasurer
Harry C. McPherson, Jr., General Counsel William Becker, Associate Counsel Richard H. Owens, Assistant Treasurer Henry Strong, Assistant Treasurer
Members Appointed by the President of the United Joe L. Allbritton Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Marshall B Coyne
Richmond Crinkley Trammell Crow
June Oppen Degnan
Robert Fryer
Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr. Orval Hansen
Charlton Heston
Mrs. Earle Jorgensen Melvin R. Laird
Marjorie M. Lawson
Mrs J. Willard Marriott Dina Merrill
Joan Mondale
Gerald M. Rafshoon
Mrs. Abdraham Ribicoff Caroline Hunt Schoellkopf Leonard L. Silverstein Jean Kennedy Smith
Roger B. Smith
John G. Spatuzza
Dennis Stanfill
Roger L. Stevens
Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss Henry Strong
Jack Valenti
Lew R. Wasserman
Mes. Jack Wrather
States

<<<Page: 52>>>

a SS -Cl
Charlies: Z. Wick, Director, United States Information Agency Senator Edward M. Kennedy Senator Lowell Weicker, Jr. Senator James A. McClure Representative Joseph M. McDade Representative Charles Wilson Representative Sidney R. Yates Marion S. Barry, Mayor, ; District of Columbia Robert McC. Adams, Secretary Smithsonian Institution Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian of Congress
J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts
William Penn Mott, Jr., Director, National Park Service F. Alexis H. Roberson, Director, District of Columbia Department of Recreation
Honorary Trustees
Mrs. George A. Garrett Ralph E. Becker
Mrs. Albert Lasker
Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger J. William Fulbright
President's Advisory Committee on the Arts
a a i SS eS
Herbert L. Hutner, California Chairman
Margaret Archambault, Illinois Robert D. Bain, North Dakota
Joy S. Burns, Colorado
Charles A. Camalier, Jr., Maryland Claire Chambers, Michigan
Margot Denny, Alaska
Ophelia’ De Vore-Mitchell,New York Mollie Faison, North Carolina William M. Fine, New York
Richard A. Gallun, Wisconsin Beverly J. Gosnell, South Carolina Carl Halvorson, Oregon
Leota L. Hayes, Mississippi
T. David Higgins, West Virginia Martin B. Hoffman, Massachusetts Stepnen Jernigan, Oklahoma
Peggy Mallick, Wyoming
Alyne Massey, Tennessee
Julia McCabe, Delaware
Virginia McCann, New Jersey

<<<Page: 53>>>

Millicent L. Monks, Maine Julie P. Montgomery, Georgia Lindsay J. Morgenthaler, Ohio Thomas Moses, Indiana
Lillian N. Nall, Nevada
Jim Nelson, South Dakota Jeannette Nichols, Kansas Betty Noe, Lousiana
Kay Orr, Nebraska
John George Pappajohn, Iowa Ann S. Penberthy, Arizona John Piercey,Utah
Millie Pogna, New Mexico Gladys Prescott, Florida Chesley Pruet, Arkansas
Ann Rydalch, Idaho
Hugh Schilling, Minnesota William Siems, Montana Harriet Slaybaugh, Vermont Eileen Slocum, Rhode Island Charles C. Spalding, Hawaii Richard. Taylor, District of Columbia Dr. Paul Tessier, New Hampshire James Thompson, Kentucky Judith Thompson, Alabama
G. Robert Truex, Jr., Washington Diane Ushinski, Pennsylvania Dorothy Vannerson, Texas Joseph Vetrano, Connecticut Judith Woods, Missouri
Naomi Zeavin, Virginia
Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman John R. Stevenson
Carlisle H. Humelsine
Ruth Carter Stevenson
Robert H. Smith
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
George P. Shultz, Secretary of State, ex officio
James A. Baker, III, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio
Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

<<<Page: 54>>>

Appendix 2
Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards Made October 1, 1984, through September 30, 1985
American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; Archives and Research Center for Ethnomusicology; translations fellowships; 1985 elections study project.
American Research Center in Egypt, New York, New York. Operation of Center in Cairo; continuation of the architectural and epigraphic survey of Egypt; fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disciplines.
Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona. A dictionary of old Marathi.
Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. Comparative analysis of women's work and family survival and mobility strategies.
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. Archeological research in Karnataka (India).
Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. Ethnographic research on Greek medicine among the Pakhtun (Pakistan).
Columbia University, New York, New York. Seminar on the Buddhist Stupa in India and Southeast Asia.
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Gandhian socialism as belief and practice (India).
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Cultural and visual anthropological research on Indian ritual.
Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Indo-American fellowship program.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. India's children:policies affecting education and work; technological style of early neolithic pottery from Mehrgarh (Pakistan).
National Museum of American History, Washington, D. C. International symposium on peripatetic societies (India).
San Diego State University, San Diego, California. A comparative study of texts on the tala system of Indian music.
Social Science Research Council, New York, New York. Conference on microMacro approaches to economic change in South Asia (India).
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt (Egypt and India).

<<<Page: 55>>>

(o4)
State University of New York Binghampton, New York. Effects of Roman colonial system in Serbia, Yugoslavia.
Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York. Conference on Women and the Household (India).
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Late Quaternary geochronology (Egypt).
University of California, Berkeley, California. Excavations at OpovoBajbuk (Yugoslavia); survey for undisturbed Lower and Middle Paleolithic activity sites with falina in India; archeological investigations at Harappa, Pakistan.
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Seminar on cultural dimensions of the Nationalist period (India).
University of Colorado, Colorado Springs, Colorado. International seminar on religion and challenges of the present (India).
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Conversations with a Burmese musician.
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Architectural plans: Nalanda and the Lodi-Mughal transition (India); intellectuals' responses to
the change in northern India (1707-1803) (Pakistan).
University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Urban space in medieval Hindu imperial capital, Vijayanagara (India).
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A multidisciplinary study of Pakistani folk culture; Pashto verse narrative and technologi-
cal change (Pakistan).
University of Texas, Austin, Texas. Formative aspects of Burmese civilization (Burma and India).
University of Wisconsin, Madison. Gandharan architecture survey (Pakistan). SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY (INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY) Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. Evolutionary ecology and systematics
of Indian Papilionidae.
Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire. Biology and ecology of freshwater zooplankton and larval fish (India).
Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, Illinois. Symposium on Endangered Marine Animals and Marine Parks (India).
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Later Miocene hominoids and the origins of hominidae (Pakistan).

<<<Page: 56>>>

Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, New York. Lower Paleozoic trilobite faunas of northwestern India.
Lincoln Park Zoological Gardens, Chicago, Illinois. Collection and preservation of genetic material of two endangered Asian species.
Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan. Seminar on Wildlife Management in Kerala, India.
Museum of Northern Arizona, Flagstaff, Arizona. Triassic vertebrates of peninsular India.
National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Systematic studies of -
Indian bamboos.
National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C. Conservation field institute (India); 2nd International Conference on Environmental Education; Symposium of Endangered Marine Animals and Marine Parks (India).
Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, Los Angeles, California. Middle Eocene archaeocete whales from Kutch, India.
New York University, New York, New York. The snakes of Burma (Burma and India).
Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Ecology of a semitropical monsoonal wetland in India; 2nd International Conference on Environmental Education.
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania. A comparative study on the old world and new world tiger beetle community structure (India).
Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana. Systematics of rust fungi in peninsular India.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Panama. Indian Academy of Sciences Golden Jubilee Symposium; development of program exchange on biological diversity with Center for Ecological Studies (India); Symposium on Endangered Marine Animals and Marine Parks (India).
University of California, Berkeley, California; Ecology and social dynamics: a langur monkey model (India).
University of California, San Diego, California. Evolutionary and systematic biology of snails and their parasites (Burma and India).
University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. Ecological and genetic comparison of Alpine rosy finches (India).
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky. Himalayan bamboos: taxonomy and ecology (India).
University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida. Biosaline research workshop (Pakistan); symposium of mangroves (India).
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Evolution of mating systems and sex ratio strategies in tubuliferan trips (India); plumage patterns and speciation in the avian genus Phylloscopus (India).

<<<Page: 57>>>

University of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota. Genetic structure of tiger populations (India).
University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, North Dakota. Reproductive biology and conservation of the mugger crocodile (India).
American Geophysical Union, New York, New York. Regional Assembly of the International Association of Seismology and the Earth's Interior (India).
Kent State University, Kent, Ohio. Orogenic history of the Sulaiman Range, Pakistan.
National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Petrology and geochemistry of the Dras volcanics, Himalayas (India).
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 5th annual workshop on atomic and molecular physics (India). U. S. participation in the International Astronomical Union Congress (India).
State University of New York, Binghampton, New York. Geomorphology of the Western Ghats, India.
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Assessing and monitoring desertification in grazing systems (Pakistan).
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. Rock magnetism of the deep crust (Pakistan).
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Geochemistry of the Irrawaddy River, Burma.
Washington State University, Pullman, Washington. Holocene climatic changes in the Thar Desert (India).
Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Exchange of Museum personnel with the National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, India.
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Installation of vertebrate fossil exhibition in Geologic Museum, Cairo, Egypt.
Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Joint Indo-U.S. programs.
Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, Washington, D. C. Festival of India programs at Smithsonian.
Smithsonian Office of Museum Programs, Washington, D. C. Preventative care and maintenance of collections workshop (Pakistan).

<<<Page: 58>>>

Appendix 3
National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1985
Columbia University, New York, New York
New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York State University of New York, Cooperstown, New York University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California
Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
Bronx Zoo, Bronx, New York
Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colorado
Harvard University Herbaria, Cambridge, Massachusetts Historic Deerfield, Deerfield, Massachusetts
Intermuseum Conservation Association, Oberlin, Ohio
Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, California Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts
New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York
Nortneast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Philadelphia Zoo, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania : Rochester Museum and Science Center, Rochester, New York St. Louis Zoo, St.. Louis, Missouri
University of California, Los Angeles, California University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Walker Art Gallery, Minneapolis, Minnesota
Yale Universitys New Haven, Connecticut
Maria Fredericks, Newberry Library, Chicago, Illinois
Hana Harris, United States/International Council on Monuments and Sites, Washington, D.C.
Richard Laub, United States/International Council on Monuments and Sites, Washington, D.C.
Cynthia Luk, Williamstown Regional Art Conservation Laboratory, Williamstown, Massachusetts
Barbara Mangum, Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, England
Deborah Mayer, Conservation Center for Art and Historic Artifacts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

<<<Page: 59>>>

Benjamin Nistal-Moret, United States/International Council on Monuments and Sites, Washington, D.C. Elizabeth Steele, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York
Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C. Bucks County Historical Society, Doylestown, Pennsylvania
High Museum of Art, Atlanta, Georgia
Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, California Minnesota Zoological Park, Apple Valley, Minnesota
National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C. Northeast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts Oklahoma Museums Association, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Old Salem, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
Ringling Museum of Art Foundation, Sarasota, Florida
Rocky Mountain Regional Conservation Center, Denver, Colorado Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois Williamstown Regional Art Conservation Laboratory, Williamstown, Massachusetts
Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio
City of Buenaventura, Ventura, California
Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana
Mystic Marinelife Aquarium, Mystic, Connecticut
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina
Old Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge, Massachusetts
San Diego Zoo, San Diego, California
Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, Boston, Massachusetts
University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky
African-American Museums Association, Washington, D.C.
American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.
American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee Center for Occupational Hazards, New York, New York
International Species Inventory System, Apple Valley, Minnesota National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property, Washington, D.C.
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

<<<Page: 60>>>

Appendix 4
Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1985
The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appointees are provided access to the Institution's facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources. The persons
listed by bureau, office, or division in this Appendix began their residencies between October 1, 1984, and September 30, 1985. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral fellows, Graduate Student fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awards and participants in special programs are so listed. The institution where each Fellow received, or expects to receive, the degree, or the home university or institution of Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special appointees are listed. A brief
description of the project to be undertaken at the Smithsonian is included where appropriate. The fellow's or visitor's host bureau or office and the Smithsonian advisor are also listed.

<<<Page: 61>>>

Veletta Canouts, Visiting Scientist, Scuthern Illinois University. Hopi yellow firing pottery: a structural stylistic approach to 1300-1600 A.D. social relatimships with Dr. Rmald Bishop, from September 15, 1985 through September 14, 1986.
Julian Henderson, Postdoctoral Fellow in Materials Analysis, University of
Bradford, England. Chemical and archaeological investigation of Iron Age glass from Magdelenska Gora in northwestern Yugoslavia with Dr.
James Blackman and Mrs. Jacqueline Olin of the Laboratory and Dr. William Melsm, Department of Mineral Sciences, from October 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985.
Cornelius van Horne, Visiting Scientist, Museum voor Landen Volkenkunde. Research and study of ethnographic and furniture conservatim practices with Mr. Mark Williams, Furniture Cmservator, and Ms. Carolyn Rose, Anthropology Cmservation Laboratory, National Museum of Natural History, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.
Suzanne Tise, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pittsburgh. Le Moderne: French design and architecture 1910-1935, the Therese Bonney Collection--C operHewitt Museum with Mr. David McFadden, from August i, 1985 through July 31, 1986.
Tadashi Kobayashi, Harold P. Stern Visiting Scholar, Gckushuin University.
Study of the Ukiyo-e collection with Ms. Ann Yonemura, from July 17, 1985 through August 23, 1985.
Raman Srinivasan, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. A scientific and historical investigation of Aranmulla mirrors: a case study in metal technology with Ms. Martha Goodway, of the Museum Support Center, and Mr. Tam Chase, Freer Gallery of Art, from May 27, 1985 through June 7, 1985, August 19, 1985 through September 13, 1985 and December 16, 1985 through January 10, 1986.
Richard Wilsm, Poatdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Problems in connoisseurship: ceramics and paintings attributed to Ogata Kenzan
(1663-1743) in the Freer Gallery of Art with Ms. Lauise Cart, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 62>>>

Michael Oren, Visiting Scholar, University of Massachusetts. Catemporary American avante-garde groups: some historical perspectives with Ms. Lynda Hartigan, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from September 15, 1985 through September 14, 1986.
Rebecca Zurier, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. The graphic roots of the Ashcan School with Dr. Judith Zilezer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from February 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.
James Fleming, Pastdoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. The Smiths mian
meteorological project, 1847-1874 with Dr. Nathan Reingold, from September 15, 1985 through September 14, 1986.
Steven Kottsy, National Historical Publications and Records Canmissim Fellow, University of Cincinnati. The Papers of Joseph Henry with Dr. Mare Rothenberg, from September 15, 1985 through June 30, 1986.
Ronald Brashear, Graduate Student Fellow, Jchns Hopkins University. The fine guidance system of the Hubble Space telesape with Dr. David Devorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Peter Brooks, International Fellow, London University. History of the autogiro and its contributio to the later development of the helicopter with Mr. Ram Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from May 1, 1985 through April 30, 1986.
Leo Goldberg, Martin Marietta Chair in Space History, University, of Arizona. History of space physics, 1934-1985 with Mr. Walter Boyne, and staff, from April 1, 1985 through March 31, 1986.
Damald Hooper, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Missouri, Rolla. Use of Viking Orbiter images taken with the three filters to produce some
implicatims for the composition of geologic units as mapped photogeologically with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary
Studies, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
an" wr

<<<Page: 63>>>

Necati Hurturk, A. Verville Predoctoral Felloq, University of Istanbul. Turkish aviation since 1911 a comprehensive history with Mr. Rmald Davies, Department of Aeronautics, fran September 15, 1985 through September 14, 1986.
Peter Jakab, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. Beyond Kitty Hawk, the Curtiss-Wright patent suit and beginnings of American aviation with Dr. Tam Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, from November 15, 1984 through Noember 14, 1985.
Hans J.P. von Ohain, Charles A. Lindbergh Chair, University of Goettingen. The application of gas turbine technology to sea and land transportation and power generatim for earth and space with Mr. Walter Boyne, Director, and staff, fron October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.
Charles Ziegler, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow, Brandeis University. History of the interactive development of aerospace technology and high energy radiatio techniques with Dr. Alan Needell, from July 1, 1985 through March 31, 1986.
Blythe Follett-Colo, Graduate Student Felloy, University of Cmnecticut. East African art history, personal art as code: age, gender and women's beaded jewelry with Dr. Roy Sieber, from June 9, 1985 through
August 9, .1985.
Barbara Frank, Predoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. Horsetrappings of the
Western Sudan: a study of style, technology and history with Dr. Roy Sieber, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Elisha Renne, Graduate Student Fella, University of Minnesota. A taxonomy of handwoven West African textile: classification by material, design motif, weave and finish with Dr. Roy Sieber, from June 17, 1985 through August 23, 1985.
Rebecca Bedell, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. Geolacy and American landscape painting, 1850-1875 with Mr. William Truettner, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from September 1, 1985 through April 30, 1986.
Janet Headley, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. The influence of English art and aesthetics on American sculptors in Italy from 1825 to 1875 with Dr. Lois Fink, Curator, Office of Research and Fellowships, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 64>>>

Kimberly Kroeger, Graduate Student Fellow, George Washington University. The iconography of the barn in nineteenth century American art with Mr. William Truettner, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Karol Lawson, Predoctoral Fellaq, University of Virginia. The American . landscape in painting and prints, ce. 1600-1820 with Mr. William Truettner, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
Richard Powell, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. William H. Jonson: expressimist and artist of the blues aesthetic with Dr. Virginia Mecklenburg, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from October 1, 1985 through September 30, 1986.
Jamtyle Ra@insm, Faculty Fellow, Emory University. Archibald Jonn Motley, Jr.
and his artistic milieu with Mr. Garnett McCoy, Archives of American Art, from September 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
Elizabeth Blackmar, Pastdoctoral Fello, Harvard University. Central Park: a
social history of public space with Mr. Carl Scheele, Department of Social and Cultural History, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Daniel Bluestone, First Ladies Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of Chicago. Promenading and public display in 19th-century American cities with Mrs. Claudia Kidwell and Mr. Carl Scheele, Department of Social and Cultural History, from November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.
Christopher Clark, Postdoctoral Fello, Harvard University. Goods and money in American rural life, c. 1780-1870 with Drs. Gary Kulik and Barbara Clark Smitn, Department of Social and Cultural History, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.
Gail Cooper, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara. Manufactured weather: a history of air mnditioing, 1906-1979 with Mr. Robert Vogel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
Colleen Dunlavy, Predoctoral Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technolagy. Variations in 19th-century technological development: a comparative study of railway development in Prussia and the United States, 1830s-1880s with Dr. Robert Past, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from July 15, 1985 through July 14, 1986.

<<<Page: 65>>>

ive)
Michael Ettema, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. The art of _Materialism: the fashion system of American furniture with Ms. Rodris Roth and Dr. Barbara Smith, Department of Social and Cultural History, from August 1, 1985 through July 31, 1986.
Frank Greenaway, Regents Fella, Keeper of the Chemistry Department of the Science Museum, Lmdon. Artifacts of science and technology and their relatim to historical information with Mr. Roger Kennedy, Director, and Dr. Jm Eklund, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from March 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.
Alferdteen Harrison, Faculty Fello, University of Kansas. A study of the use of exhibits to interpret Afro-American culture during the age of disenfranchisement with Dr. Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from June 3, 1985 through August 16, 1985.
Christine Hoepfner, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania.
THE PAST AND THE PUBLIC: historical artifacts and national ideology: the Smithsonian's flag collection as text with Dr. Gary Kulik, Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Dmald Jackson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. Jan S. Eastwood and the development of the multiple arch dam with Mr. Robert Vogel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.
Hartmut Keil, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Munich, Germany. Work traditions, technological transfer and industrialization; German
metal workers in American foundry and machine smps, 1870-1910 with
Dr. Art Molella, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from October 15, 1984 through July 31, 1985.
Sara Leach, Graduate Student Fella, University of Virginia. The kitcnen in mntext: a study of the social role of the kitchen in the 17th and 18th century American house types with Dr. Barbara Smith, Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Barbara Little, Predoctoral Fellow, State University of New York, Buffalo. Analysis of excavated printers’ type with Dr. Elizabeth Harris, Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
James Livingston, Pastdoctoral Fello, Narthern Illinois University. The social analysis of late 19th century economic history with Dr. Gary Kulik, Department of Social and Cultural History, from September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 66>>>

Stephanie McCurry, Predoctoral Fellow, University of New York, Binghamton. In defense of their world: yeoman farmers of the low-country and piedmmt of ante=bellum Saith Carolina with Dr. Pete Daniel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.
Marie McGraw, Postdoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. The structure and organization of the free black community in Richmond, Virginia with Dr. James Harton, Director, Afro-American Canmunities Project, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Grace Palladino, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Pittsburgh. Anthractive coal industry, 1840-1890 with Dr. Pete Daniel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Katherine Preston, Predoctoral Fellow, State University of New York. Traveling opera troupes in the United States, 1830-1875 with Dr. John Hasse, Department of Sccial and Cultural History, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Alan Rauch, Graduate Student Felloy, Rutgers University. The rise of science in the novel, 1800-1859: the source of scientific knowledge with Ms. Ellen Wells and Dr. Barbara Melosh, Department of History of Science
and Technology, from June 24, 1985 through August 31, 1985.
Amy Stanley, Predoctoral Fellom, Yale University. The role of contractual practice in gender, commercial, and political relations in 19thcentury America with Drs. Gary Kulik and Keith Melder, Department of Social and Cultural History, from March 1, 1985 through February 28, 1986.
Jonn Swann, Patdoctoral Fella, University of Wisconsin, Madison. The deve-
lopment of cooperative medical research between universities, the phar-
maceutical industry, and the federal government in America, 1895-1945 with Dr. Ramunas Kqmdratas, Department of the History of Science and Technolagy,
from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Preston Thayer, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Delaware. Daniels’ Planernineteenth century woodworking machine with Mr. Robert Vogel, Department of tne History of Science and Technology, from June 17, 1985 through August 23, 1985.
Herbert Lee West, Faculty Fellow, University of Minnesota. Black minstrelsy and its impact on black culture in America with Mr. Carl Scheele, Department of Cultural History, from June 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.
David Adamski, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Massachusetts. Phylogenetic study of the Nearctic Blastobasinae (Lepidopterai Gelecnioidea) witn Dr. Dmaid Davis, Department of Entomology, from July 22, 1985 through September 27, 1985.

<<<Page: 67>>>

James Allan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. Volcanism in the Colima Graben, southwest Mexico with Dr. William Melsm, Department of Mineral Sciences, from October 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.
Andrew Apter, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. Data analysis of Yoruba Orisa worship with Dr. Ivan Karp, Department of Anthropology, from March 1, 1985 through February 28, 1986.
Dm Baker, Patdoctoral Fellow, Pennsylvania State University. The petrogenesis of Aleutian rocks, a petrographic and chemical study with Dr. William Melson, Department of Mineral Sciences, from January 1, 1985 through September 30, 1985.
James S. Beard, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Davis. A study of _ore-related plutonic rocks in the Smartville Canplex and gabbro xenoliths from Irazu voleano, Cota Rica with Drs. S@ena Sorensm and William Melsom, Department of Mineral Sciences, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.
Jonathan Becker, Postdoctoral Fella, University of Flaiida. Relatimmships and evo lution of the Limpkin (Aves, Aramidae) and the Crowned Cranes (Aves, Gruidae, Balearicinae) with Dr. Storrs Olsm, Department of Vertebrate
Zoology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Rudiger Bieler, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Hamburg. The gastropod
family, Mathildidae, anatomy, phylogeny, taxonomy, and its position in the "Heterogastropds" with Dr. Richard Haubrick, Department of
Invertebrate Zology, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
Carlos Brunet, Visiting Scientist, University of Houston. Significance of sexual versus asexual recruitment in Acromra cervicornis with Dr. Ian MacIntyre, from June 1, 1985 through September 30, 1985.
Maria Byrne, Visiting Scientist, University of Victoria, Canada. The
reproductive biology of Caribbean ophiuroids that brood their young with Dr. Gardon Hendler, from May 15, 1985 througn June 30, 1985.
Jcin Carr, Graduate Student Fellow, Saquthern Illinois University, Cartondale.
Phyl qenetic analysis of a diverse radiatim of Neotropical turtles (Rhinoclemmys) with Dr. George Zug, Department of Vertebrate Zology,
from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Paterno Castillo, Graduate Student Fellow, Washington University. Geology,
petrology and tactonic implications of Cocos, Cocos Island, Costa Rica with Dr. Tam Simkin, Department of Mineral Sciences, from June 10,
1985 through August 16, 1985.

<<<Page: 68>>>

Frederic Cardova, Faculty Fellow, Seattle University. Fifty primitive wild people...head hunters!...dog eaters!...from the Philippine Islands... in Seattle with Dr. Paul Taylor, Department of Anthroplogy, from July 15, 1985 through September 15, 1985.
Corrine Ehrlich, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. Solar energy and
wave and current energy used to grow turf algae with Dr. Walter Adey, Department of Paleobiology, from May 1, 1985 through April 30, 1986.
Brian Farrell, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. Study of leaf-beetles (coleoptera: chrysamelidae) with Dr. Terry Erwin, Department of Entomology, from August 1, 1985 through November 30, 1985.
Kathleen Gordon, Patdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. A test of dental
microwear analysis in reconstructing diets of prehistoric human mp pulatims
with Dr. Douglas Ubelaker, Department of Anthroplogy, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
Xu Guirong, Senior Patdoctoral Fellow, Peking College of Geology. Upper Permian and lowermost Triassic brachiopod fauna in South China and their main ewlutionary events with Dr. Richard Grant, Department of Paleobiology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Kris Hardin, Predoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. Technique and the fa-
mation of conceptual systems; a West African case with Dr. Ivan Karp, Department of Anthropology, from August 1, 1985 through July 31, 1986.
Robert Harrington, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara. Morpmology, growth interactions ammg tabulate corals and stromatop roids with Dr. Ian MacIntyre, Department of Paleobiology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Roger Heitzman, Postdoctoral Felloy, University of Maryland. Congruence of larval and adult phylqenies of the Ennanini with Dr. Jcmn Burns, Department of Entomology, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
Jonn Haniak, Pa@tdoctoral Fellow, Brandeis University. Rastafari and the Afro-Jamaican tradition with Dr. William Merrill, Department of Anthropology, from November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.
Seott Ishman, Graduate Student Fellow, Ohio State University. Systematic and morpnometric investigation of high latitude late cenomic fmqmaminifera to determine bi-polarity with Dr. Martin Buzas, Department of Paleobiology, from June 17, 1985 through August 23, 1985.
Emmet Judziewiez, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin, Madison. The
search for an out-group for Pharus: the anatomy and morphology of the herbaceous bamboc tribes Anamochiceae, Streptogyneae and Phareae with Dr.
Thomas Soderstrom, Department of Botany, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 69>>>

Jan Kmlneyer, Visiting Scientist, University of North Carolina. Marine fungi at Carrie Bow and Twin Cays with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate Zoolcy, from April 1, 1985 through April 30, 1985.
Brian Lapointe, Visiting Scientist, University of Sqith Florida. A comparison of nutrient status and physiological state of cacroalgae from a Caribbean barrier reef and mangrove ecosystem with Dr. Mark Littler, Department of Botany, from April 1, 1985 through April 30, 1985.
Diana L. Lipscomb, Visiting Scientist, George Washington University. Mangrove protozans with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from July 1, 1985 through July 31, 1985.
James S. Miller, Postdoctoral Fello, Ca@nell University. A phylogenetic analysis of the dioptive genera (Lepidoptera: Notodontidae) with Dr. Robert Robbins, Department of Entomology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Oscar Mmterrosa, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Puerto Rico. Shrimp from deep-water traps off the south and west coasts of Puerto Rico with Dr. Fenner Chace, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from July 15, 1985 through September 20, 1985.
Beth Narden, Predoctoral Fellav, University of Maryland. Taxonomic discrimination and biology of Ceratina (Dupla species group) with Dr. Rmald McGinley, Department of Entomology, from November 15, 1984 through November 14, 1985.
Lisa Osterman, Pastdoctoral Fella, University of Colorado, Boulder. Pleistocene and holceene foraminiferal assemblages in deep and shallow water arctic marine environments with Dr. Martin Buzas, Department of Paleobiology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Esther Peters, Pastdoctoral Fella, University of Rmwde Island. The value of histolqical characters as taxonomic tools for distinguishing species of Dichocoenia (Zoantharia, Scleractinia) with Dr. Stephen Cairns, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.
Mary Lucas Powell, Postdoctoral Fellow, Narthwestern University. Synchronic and diachronic patterns of health and disease in Mississippian populatims from the Macon Plateau and the Georgia coast with Dr. Dmald Ortner, Department of Anthropology, from November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.
Michael Price, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Development of a new taxonamic system for pteridophytes and reclassificatim and rearrangement of Smithsonian pteridophyte collectims in accordance With this new system with Dr. David Lellinger, Department of Botany, from February 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 70>>>

David Reid, Pastdoctoral Fella, James Cook University, Australia. The systematics of the genera Bembecium and Peasiella and an investigatim of phylogeny within the family Littorinidae with Drs. Ja@eph Raewater and Richard Haubrick, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from February 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.
Susanne Renner, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Hamburg. Systematics and biogeography of Macairea (Melastomataceas) with Dr. Jchn Wurdack, Department of Botany, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.
Jean-Laip Rausselot, Patdoctoral Fella, University of Munich, Germany. Material culture of the Mackenzie Eskimo at contact time with Dr. William Fitzhugh, Department of Anthropology, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.
David Russell, Visiting Scientist, George Washington University. Syllid . polychaetes from the mangrove environment with Dr. Kristian Fauchnald, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from June 1, 1985 through September 30, 1985.
Jurgen Sieg, Senior Patdoctoral Fellm, Universitiat Osnabruck, Vechta. Systematics and phylogenetic biogeography of Antarctic Tanaidacea with Dr. Thomas Bowman, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from August 1, 1985 through July 31, 1986.
Petra Sierwald, Patdoctoral Fell, University of Hamburg. Systematic pmsitim
of the spider genus Thalassius SIMON, 1885, within the pisauridae and defi-
nitiom of mmophyletie units within the family with Dr. Jmathan Ccddington Department of Entomolagy, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
David Stoddart, Regents Fellow, Cambridge University. Biogeography of coral reefs and islands with Dr. Richard Fiske, Director, and staff, from March 1, 1985 through November 30, 1985.
C.R. Suresh, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Calicut, India. A reinvestigation of the plants of Ha@tus Malabaricus with Dr. Dan Niwlson, Department of Botany, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.
James Thomas, Visiting Scientist, Newfound Hartor Marine Institute. Diel Migration of Amphimds from specific coral reef substrates, Carrie Pow Cay, Belize with Dr. J.L. Barnard, Department of
Invertebrate Zoolagy, from May 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.
Shirley Turner, Postdoctoral Fellow, Arigna State University. Structural study of manganese oxides by single-crystal x-ray diffraction, microprobe analysis and HRTEM with Dr. Jeffrey Past, Department of Mineral Sciences, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.

<<<Page: 71>>>

Robert Voss, Visiting Scientist, University of Michigan. Phylqenetic significance of male reproductive anatomy in squirrels with Dr. Richard Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zology, from February 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.
David Wahl, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. The phylogeny classification of P@aiantinae (Hymenoptera: Ichneummidae) with emphasis upon the larvae with Dr. Rmald McGinley, Department of Entomology, from August 15, 1985 through August 14, 1986.
Charles M. Wahle, Visiting Scientist, University of Maryland. Octomral biology study at Carrie Bow Cay and Twin Cays with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from June 1, 1985 through July 31, 1985.
Peter Wainright, Visiting Scientist, University of Chicago. Hogfish feeding with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate Zolay, from July 1, 1985 through July 31, 1985.
Wirt Wills, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Early village ommunities in prehistoric American southwest with Drs. Dennis Stanford and William Merrill, Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Elizabeth Brame, Predoctoral Fellm, University of Nath Carolina-Chapel Hill.
Portraits of virtue and genius: the hall of fame and civic prtraiture in
the early American republic, 1780-1820 with Dr. Ellen Miles, Department of
Paintings and Sculpture, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Patricia Jonnston, Predoctoral Fellow, Boston University. The work of Edward Steichen and its context in prtrait, advertising and fashion photography of the period 1914 to 1938 with Mr. Alan Fern, Director, and Mr. William Stapp, Curatorial Department, from March 1, 1985 through February 28, 1986.
Debtorah.Van Buren, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. The Cornish colony: the study of an artists' colmy 1885-1916 with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willso Peale Papers, from September 1, 1985 through August 3a, 1986.
Alan Wallach, Senior Patdoctoral Fella, Columbia University. Thomas Cole's patronage with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 72>>>

Mary Allen, Predoctoral Fellow, Michigan State University. Nutritional aspects of insectivory with Dr. Dale Marcellini, Department of Herpetology, and Dr. Richard Mmtali, Department of Pathology, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
Lee Boyd, Graduate Student Fellow, Carnell University. Reproductive behavior of
asiatic wild horses (Equus Przewalskii) with Dr. Christen Wemmer, Department of Cmservation, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Susan D. Crissey, Postdoctoral Fellm, University of Maryland. The relatimsnip of reproductio energetics to climatic origin in deer with Dr. Olav Oftedal, Office of Zoological Research, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Lisa Forman, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. Molecular genetic analysis of captive and natural populations of Leontopithecus with Dr. Katherine Ralls, Office of Zoological Research, from July 15, 1985 through July 14, 1986.-
Georg Sechwede, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Bielefeld. Influence of a high and low quality habitat on the socicecology of two white-tailed deer populations with Dr. Christen Wemmer, Department of Cmservatim, and Dr. John Seidensticker, Department of Mammalogy, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.
Nellie Tsipura, Graduate Student Fellaq, Washington State University. Similarity of song in neighboring versus non-neighboring Kentucky Warblers with Dr. Eugene Marton, Department of Cmservatim, from May 13, 1985 through July 22, 1985.
Mare Aaronson, Visiting Scientist, University of Arimna. Extragalactic distance scale, the red stellar mntent of nearby galaxies and the dynamics of nearby dwarf spheriodals with Dr. David Latham, from May 31, 1985 through August 2, 1985.
Luis Aguilar-Chiu, Patdoctoral Fellqm, University of California, Berkeley. Dynamics of stellar and galactic systems with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Joon Biretta, Postdoctoral Fellow, California Institute of Technology. Costruction of a unified model for flat radio spectrum quasars and ewlution and proper motion of large seale radio with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 73>>>

Eric Bloemhof, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Califaqnia. Observational and experimental studies in optical and infrared astronomy and radio and geoastronomy with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1986.
Richard Burg, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. Optical and infrared astronomy with Dr. Irwin Shapiro and staff, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Giles Chapman, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Structure and dynamics
of highly-flattened clusters of galaxies with Dr. Margaret Geller, from July 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
Ronald Eastman, Predoctoral Fella, University of Michigan. Analysis of a series of optical spectra of the Type II supernova 1980k Th NGC 6946 with Dr. George Rybicki, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Gary Fuller, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. Observational study of physical and chemical processes in the interstellar medium with Dr. Phil Myers, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Cheng Fu-Zhen, Visiting Scientist, University of Science and Technology of China-Anhui. Active galactic nuclei with Dr. Harvey Tananbaum, from March 12, 1985 through May 10, 1985.
Michael Garcia, Educatim Fellow, Harvard University. Development of the
EXITE detector and a study of galactic bulge x-ray sourced variability with Dr. Stephen Murray, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1987.
Kenneth Gibbs, Visiting Scientist, University of Arizona. Optical and infrared astronomy with Dr. Trewr Weekes, from May 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.
Gerard Gillanders, Visiting Student, University Callege, Dublin. Detectim
of ultra high energy gamma rays from Cygnus X-3 with Dr. Trewr Weekes, from August 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
S.P. Goldman, Visiting Scientist, The University of Western Ontario. Calculation of forbidden transitimms in molecular systems with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, from May 13, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Alan G. Gregory, Visiting Scientist, University of Adelaide, Australia. FLWO air shower array with Dr. Trevor Weekes, from September 10, 1985 through December 10, 1985.

<<<Page: 74>>>

Patrick Hartigan, Visiting Student, University of Arizona. Interactim of the collimated flow from a young star exciting the HH djects witn the clad fran which the star formed with Drs. John Raymamd and Lee Hartmann, fran May 27, 1985 through August 18, 1985.
Thomas W. Hartquist, Visiting Scientist, Max-Planck Institut fur Extraterrestrische Physik. Chemistry of magnetohydrodynamic shocks with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, from May 6, 1985 through June 17, 1985.
Lawrence Krauss, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Application of elementary particle physics to astropnysics with Dr. George Rybicki, from June 1, 1985 through July 14, 1985.
Valerie de Lapparent, Predoctoral Fellow, Universite Pans. A study of the Share-Wirtaren counts and analysis of a galaxy redshift survey witn Dr. Margaret Geller, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Jam Marcaide, Visiting Scientist, Max-Planck Institut fur Radioastronomie. Interpretation of very lmg baseline interferometry observatims of quasars with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from May 18, 1985 through June 18, 1985.
Laurence A. Marschall, Visiting Scientist, Gettysburg College. Study of the internal velocity fields of yung open clusters with Dr. David Latham, from June 10, 1985 through August 2, 1985.
Tsevi Maseh, Visiting Scientist, Tel Aviv University. Spectroscopic survey to detect extrasolar clae planets with Dr. David Latham, from July 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986.
Lawrence Molnar, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. Cores of active galactic nuclei (AGNs) with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff from April 1, 1985 through August 31, 1987.
Jeremiah Ostriker, Regents Fellow, Princeton University. The structure and stability of rotating stars with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from January 1, 1985 through June 30, 1985.
Rutn Peterson, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Globular clusters and the abundances of the chemical elements in very old stars with Dr. David Latham, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
Martin Rees, Regents Fellow, Cambridge University. Radio and X-ray astronany and observational cosmology with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from February 21 to April 21, 1985, February 21 to April 21, 1986 and February 21 through April 21, 1987.

<<<Page: 75>>>

Stephen Shectman, Visiting Scientist, Mount Wilson and Las Campanas Observatories. Large scale structure of the universe with Dr. David Latham, from July 1, 1985 through August 23, 1985.
Amiel Sternberg, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. Infrared and ultraviolet observations of molecular hydrogen and of im-molecule chemistry in interstellar gas clouds with Dr. Alexander Dalgarno, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
Wao Mo Sven, Visiting Scientist, California Institute of Technology. Problems involving cosmic strings and axions with Dr. George Field, from September 1, 1985 through November 1, 1985.
Martin Woodard, Visiting Scientist, University of California, San Diem@.. Relations between solar-cycle activity and low-degree solar five-minute oscillations with Dr. R.W. Noyes, from June 16, 1985 through August 7, 1985.
Dennis Byrne, Pastdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Messenger RNA from
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii thylakoid-tund ritosames with Dr. Maurice Margulies, Rockville, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
Bartolameo Lercari, Visiting Scientist, University of Pisa, Italy. The induc-
tion of bulbing in onions by light involving a number of action spectra at
different times during the photoperiod with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, Rockville, from May 6, 1985 through November 8, 1985.
Erik Scully, Visiting Scientist, Towsm State University. Patterns of growth and reproduction observed in populations of the intertidal hermit crab, Pagurus logicarpus with Dr. Anson Hines, Edgewater, from August 15, 1985 through August 14, 1986.
Jacob Weiner, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Oreg@n. Size hierarchies and interspecific mmpetitim in weed populatios with Dr. Dennis Whigham, Edgewater, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
Thomas Aide, Predoctoral Fellm, University of Utah. The interactims of leaf
phenology and insect herbiwry with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from November 1, 1985 to March 31, 1986 and November 1, 1986 through March 31, 1987.
Brian Bock, Patdoctoral Fellow, University of Tennessee, Knoxville. The effects of gene flow barriers on the differentiatim of Anolis limifrons
sub-po pulations in Panama with Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 15, 1985 through July 14, 1986.

<<<Page: 76>>>

Jae Chun Choe, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. Dispersal and social organization in Zoraptera with Dr. William Eberhard, from May 26, 1985 through August 2, 1985.
Philip Devries, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin. Mutualistic
interactions between ants, plants, parasitoids and two species of riodinid butterflies with Dr. Dmald Windsor, from September 1, 1985 through
August 31, 1986.
Damald Feener, Pastdoctoral Fella, University of Texas. Defense strategies against competitors, predators and parasites in a tropical ant community with Dr. Joseph Wright, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.
Edward Herre, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iqa. The implications of reproductive allocation patterns for the coewlution of figs and fig pllinating wasps with Drs. Egbert Leigh and Dmald Windsor, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.
James Marden, Graduate Student Fella, University of Vermont. Thermoregulatory
physiology and behavior of large tropical insects with Dr. David Raubik, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Keith McGuinness, Patdoctoral Fella, University of Sydney, Australia. Experimental analysis of disturbance and other factors structuring communities on reef plates in the Caribbean with Dr. Jan Cubit, from November 1, 1984 through October 31, 1985.
Robert Richmond, Patdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York, Stony Brook. The ecology, physialogy and population biology of the reef-building wral Pocillomora damicornis in the Eastern Pacific with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from June 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.
Kyle Summers, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Michigan. Mating and parental
behavior in the green mison-arrow frog, Dendrobates auratus with Dr. Stanley Rand, from June 3, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Jess Zimmerman, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Utan. Sex change in Catasetum viridiflavum with Dr. Joseph Wright, from June 1, 1985 to November 30, 1985 and June 1, 1986 through November 30, 1986.

<<<Page: 77>>>

The Smithsonian offers internship and other appointments to visiting graduate and undergraduate students. The persons listed by bureau, office, or division in this Appendix began their appointments between October 1, 1984, and September 30, 1985. Holders of special awards
and participants in special programs are so listed. The institutions attended, the title or a brief description of the project undertaken, where appropriate, and the name of the Smithsonian supervisor are
given for each intern. The names listed below have been supplied by the individual bureaus, offices, and divisions of the Smithsonian Institution. Duplication of names listed above has not been corrected.
Peter W. Brooks, International Fellow. History of the autogiro and its contribution to the later development of the helicopter, with
Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from May 1, 1985, through April 30, 1986.
Peter L. Doorn, Planetary Geology Undergraduate Research Program. Analysis of structural features on Mars, with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 3 through July 26, 1985.
Leo Goldberg, the Martin Marietta Chair in Space History. Compile memoirs of his career as an astronomer, administrator, and participant in NASA's space science program, with Dr. D. H. DeVorkin, Department of
Space Science and Exploration, from April 1, 1985, through March 31, 1986€.
Adam L. Gruen, Guggenheim Predoctoral Fellow. United States civilian Space station concepts: a case study of the nature of technological change, 1958-1983, with Ms. Linda Ezell, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.
Donald M. Hooper, Smithsonian Graduate Student Fellow. Investigations of Mars stratigraphy using Viking Orbiter data, with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 3 through August 9, L985 i,
Kivane Hurturk, Alfred Verville Fellow. Turkish aviation since 1911: a comprehensive history, with Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from September 15, 1985, through September 14, 1986.
Peter L. Jakab, Smithsonian Graduate Student Fellow. Ph.D. dissertation on early American aviation and the integration of the airplane into American life, with Dr. Tom Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, from November 15, 1984, through November 14, 1985.
Richard K. Smith, Alfred Verville Fellow. The new American airplane of
1934, with Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from September 17, 1984, through September 16, 1985.

<<<Page: 78>>>

Joseph N. Tatarewicz, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow, The role of planetary astronomers in developing the Space Telescope, with Dr. Allan Needell, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from December Dy, 1983, through December 14, 1984.
Hans J. P. von Ohain, the Charles A. Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History. Application of gas turbine technology to sea and land transportation and power generation for earth and space, with Mr. E. T. Wooldridge, Department of Aeronautics, from October l, 1984, through September 30, 1985.
Charles A. Ziegler, Guggenheim Predoctoral Fellow. History of the interactive development of aerospace technology and high energy
measurement techniques, with Dr. Allan Needell, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from July 1, 1985, through March 31, 1986.
Edward Arnold, B.S. candidate, George Mason University, with Dr. Patricia Jacobberger, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from October 1 through December 31, 1984.
Robert Berkowitz, B.S. candidate, Carnegie-Mellon University, with Dr. David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from September 18 through December 17, 1985.
Tracy Bessette, B.S. candidate, University of Delaware, with Mr. Thomas Callen, Albert Einstein Planetarium, September 13 through December 20, 1985.
Kelly Doucet, B.S. candidate, Gallaudet College, with Mr. Dale Hrabak, Photography Office, from January 23 through May 17, 1985.
Ronald Duncan, M.A. candidate, University of Idaho, with Dr. Patricia Jacobberger, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 3 through August 2, 1985.
Martin Fetherston, B.S. candidate, College of the Holy Cross, with Dr. David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from January 14 through April 30, 1985.
Leslie Gerber, B.A. candidate, University of Maryland, with Ms. Barbara Brennan, Exhibits Division, from June 10 through August 16, 1985,
Tom Gilliam, M.A. candidate, Wright State University, with Ms. Robin Schroffel, Office of the Registrar, from June 17 through August 23, 1985.
Beatrice Locher, B.A. candidate, Boston College, with Ms. Holly Haynes, Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.
Timothy Noakes, B.S. candidate, Notre Dame University, with Dr. David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.

<<<Page: 79>>>

Alicia Rosenfeld, B.A. candidate, The American University, with Ms. Holly Haynes, Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services, from March 4 through May 3, 1985.
Mark Taylor, B.S. candidate, George Mason University, with Ms. Patricia Woodside, Exhibits Division, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.
Ashley Tidey, B.A. caradidate, Williams College, with Miss Helen Claire McMahon, Office of Aerospace Education and Publications, from June 10 through August 9, 1985.
Curtis Utz, M.A. candidate, University of Maryland, with Dr. Tom Crouch, Department of Aeronautics, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.
Eric Wichman, B.S. candidate, University of Maryland, with Ms. Mary Valdivia, Exhibits Division, from July 1 through September 6, 1985.
DENNIS BYRNE, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Messenger RNA from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii thylakoid-bound ribosomes, with Dr. Maurice Margulies, from June 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986.
SILVIA FROSCH, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. Leaf gradients and circadian rhuthms in photosunthetic capacitu in relation to photoperiodic induction in long-day plants, with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, from September 1, 1984 through August 27, 1985.
ELIEZER GOLDSCHMIDT, Visiting Scientist, Hebrew University of Jerusalen, Rehovot, Israel. Investigation into the chemical control of flowering in Pharbitis nil, with Dr. Charles Cleland, from January 1, 1985 through March Sih) 985i.
MICHAEL KRONES, Visiting Student, University of Maryland, Automatic control sustems testing the effects of dunamic changes in light qualitu on plant growth, with Dr. John Sager, from August 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986. BARTOLOMEO LERCARI, Visiting Scientist, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Phutochrome action in the photoperiodic regulation of bulbing in onion, Allium.cepa L., with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, from May 6, 1985 through November 8, £985).
MAMORU MIMURO, Visiting Scientist, University of Tokyo. Terminal pigment in a major light harvesting photosynthetic pigment complex (Phuccbilisomes), with Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, from April 1, 1985 through September 30, 1985. INGRID OLMSTED, Visiting Scholar, Centro de Investigaciones de Quintana Roo, Mexico. Vegetational analysis for Sian Ka'an Reserve, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 24, 1985 though July 30, 1985.
ERIC SCULLY, Postdoctoral Fellow, Towson State University. Latitudinal variation in life history parameters of the hermit crab, Pagurus longicarpus, with Dr. Anson Hines, from August 15, 1985 through August 14, 1986.
TIMOTHY SPIRA, Visiting Scholar, Georgia Southern College. Reproductive aspects of Hibiscus palustris, with Dr. Dennis Whigham from June 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.

<<<Page: 80>>>

FREDRICKA SPONGA, Visiting Scientist, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Blue light "HIR" in anthocyanin production: cryptochrome or phytochrome, with Dr. GERALD DEITZER, from June 24, 1985 through July 19, 1985 and September 9, 1985 through November 30, 1985.
LISA WAGNER, Georgia Southern College. Biomass allocation of species of
Poa, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from March 1 through August 31, 1985.
JACOB WEINER, Postdoctoral Fellow, Swarthmore College. Self-thinning in wild rice Zizania aquatica var. aquatica, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.
DONNA WOLCOTT, Visiting Scholar, North Carolina State University.
Development of ultrasonic telemetru of feeding in blue crabs, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.
THOMAS WOLCOTT, Visiting Scholar, North Carolina State University. Development of telemetru of feeding in blue crabs, with Dr. Anson Hines,
from May 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.
PATRICK FLAHERTY, Work/Learn Student, B.S. candidate, University of Pittsburgh. Nutrient exchange in brackish marshes, with Dr. Thomas Jordan, from May 13, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
SHARON HOSKO, Work/Learn Student, B.S., Baldwin-Wallace College. Community structure and population dynamics of benthic invertebrates in an estuary, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 20, 1985 through September 27, 1985.
ANN LEVIN, Work/Learn Student, M.A., University of California, Davis. Insect Ecologu, with Dr. James Lynch, from May 6, 1985 through August 30, 1985. MONICA MCMANUS, Work/Learn Student, B.S., University of New Hampshire. Woodland herb migration, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 10, 1985 through August 30, 1985.
MERLE POTCHINSKY, Work/Learn Student, B.S. candidate, Brandeis University. Estuarine fish biologu project, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 20, 1985 through August 23, 1985.
JAMES SCHAFER, Research Intern, M.S., Eastern Kentucky University. Chemistry of forest throughfall, with Dr. David Correll, from April 1985 through September 1985.
ADRIAN WESOL, Work/Learn Student, B.S., Southern Illinois University. Community structure and population of benthic invertebrates In an estuaru, with Dr. Anson Hines, from April 1, 1985 through June 21, 1985.
LENORE WEICHERT, B.S. candidate, University of Maryland. Population and feeding of estuarine fish, with Dr. Anson Hines, from March 4, 1985 through September 27, 1985.
Doris Johnson, Ph.D. candidate, University of the District of Columbia. Pilot study on museum research with Dr. John Balling, from September through December 1984.
Gail Leeds, M.A., George Washington University. Collect bibliographic information on learning in museums for Dr. Falk, from July through August 1985.
Stephanie Ratcliffe, Museum Education Program, George Washington University. Worked with Director on community science project research from January through May 1985.

<<<Page: 81>>>

Academic, Research Training and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1985
Program in Tropical Biology
Brian Bock, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Tennessee. The Effects of Gene Flow Barriers on the Differentiation of Anolis limifrons Sub-populations in Panama, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 15, 1985 through July 14, 1986.
Philip DeVries, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Texas at Austin. Mutualistic Interactions between Ants, Plants, Parasitoids and Two Species of Riodinid Butterflies, with Dr. Donald M. Windsor, from September 1, 1985 through August 30, 1986.
Jae Choe, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. Dispersal and Social Organization in Zoroptera, with Dr. William Eberhard, from June 3 through August 9, 1985.
Nancy B. Elliot, Short-term Visitors, Sienna College, Presocial Behavior in
Cerceris, with Dr. Mary Jane West-Eberhard, from July 1 through July 3l,
1985.
William M. Elliot, Short-term Visitor, Hartwick College. Presocial Behavior in Cerceris, with Dr. Mary Jane West-Eberhard, from July 1 through July 3l, 1985.
Donald Feener, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. Defense Strategies against Competitors, Predators and Parasites in a Tropical Ant Community, with Dr. Stephen P. Hubbeil, from October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.
Mickey Marcus, Visiting Student, University of Maine at Orono. Study of Frugivory and Seed Dispersal by Birds and Terrestrial Mammals of Understory Trees and Shrubs in the Premontane Forests of the Camarca de San Blas, with Drs. Egbert Leigh and Nicholas Smythe, from October 1 through December 10, 1985. 4
James Marden, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Vermont. Thermoregulatory Physiology and Behavior of Large Tropical Insects, with Dr. David W. Roubik, from June 1 through August 14, 1985.
Keith McGuiness, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Sydney, Australia. Experimental Analysis of Disturbance and other Factors Structuring Reef Plates in the Caribbean, with Dr. John Cubit, from November 1, 1985 through October 31, 1986.
Robert Richmond, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York at Stony Brook. The Ecology, Physiology and Population Biology of the Reef-building
Pocillopora damicornis in the Eastern Pacific, with Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson,
from June 1 through December 31, 1985 and July 1 through August 31, 1986.

<<<Page: 82>>>

Kyle Summers, Visiting Graduate Student, University of Michigan. Mating and Parental Behavior in the Green Poison-arrow Frog, Dendrobates auratus, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from June 1 through August 9, 1985.
Jess Zimmerman, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. The Ecological Implications of Sex Change in the Orchid, Catasetum viridiflavum, with Drs. Alan P. Smith and Joseph Wright, from June 1 through November 30, 1985 and June 1 through November 30, 1986.
Short-term Fellowships in Tropical Biology
Eldredge Bermingham, Ph.D. candidate, University of Georgia. Mitochondrial DNA Differentiation among Fishes and Invertebrates of the Eastern Pacific and Caribbean: Testing a Molecular Clock, with Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from September 27 through November 1, 1985.
Scott Carroll, Ph.D. candidate, University of Utah. The Ecology of Reproductive Competition among Male Dysdercus bimaculatus, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from February 1 through April 30, 1985.
Christian D'Orgeix, M.S. candidate, California State University at Fullerton. Individual Recognition of Conspecifics in the Lizard Anolis
limifrons on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from May l through September 30, 1985.
Jeronimo Garcia, M.S. candidate, University of Iowa. Strategies of Establishment of Neotropical Trees, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from May 15 August 15, 1985.
Monica Geber, Ph.D. candidate, University of Utah. Ecological and Populational Determinants of Mating System in Parasitic Fig Wasps of the Genus Idarnes (Torymidea: Chalcioidea), with Dr. Donald Windsor, from November 1, 1984 through January 31, 1985.
Matthew Grober, Ph.D. candidate, University of California at Los Angeles. The Anti-Predator Functions of Bioluminescence in Tropical Ophiuroids, with Dr. Harilacos Lessios, from November 9, 1984 through February 8, 1985.
Michael Keller, Ph.D. candidate, Princeton University. Chemistry of the Soils of Barro Colorado Island: A Study of Rock and Soil Weathering, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from December 15, 1985 through January 30, 1986.
Eric Larsen, Ph.D. candidate, University of Arizona. Community Structure of Tropical Aquatic Insects, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from March 1 through May 15, 1985.
Catherine McFadden, Ph.D. candidate, University of Washington. Size Regulation and Patterns of Dispersion in Colonial Organisms: a Dependence on Flow, with Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson, from September 23 December 20, 1985.
Giselle Mora, Ph.D. candidate, University of Florida. Egg Guarding by Males in Zygopachylus albomarginis (Arachnida: Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from August 7 December 17, 1985.

<<<Page: 83>>>

Christopher Peterson, Ph.D., University of Arizona. Gender Allocation in Simultaneous Hemaphroditic Animals: Tests for Plasticity in Allocation, with Dr. D. Ross Robertson, from May 22 through August 27, 1985.
Kathryn Sieving, Ph.D. candidate, University of Illinois. Habitat Use and Abundance among Insectivorous Birds of Tropical Forest Understory: Peru Panama Comparison, with Dr. James R. Karr, from June 1 through August Si, 1985.
Keryea Soong, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Reproductive Strategies in the Branching Coral, Porites furcata, in various habitats at Galeta Point, Panama, with Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson, from July 15 through August 30, 1985.
Nathan Stephenson, M.S. candidate, Cornell University. A Comparison of Habitat Fidelity of Tropical and Temperate Alpine Plants, with Dr. Alan Smith, from September 1 through December 31, 1985.
Fellowship & Assistantship Program
Victor Acuna, Exxon Assistant, University of Costa Rica. Environment, Settlement and Subsistence in Central Panama, with Dr. Richard Cooke, from June 3 through November 2, 1985.
Nidia Aguirre, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Phytoliths in Modern Plants and Archaeological and Geological Soils, with Dr. Dolores Piperno, from February 1 through July 24, 1985.
German I. Andrade, Exxon Assistant, Institute of Natural Resources, Colombia. Study of Understory Birds in the Barro Colorado Nature Monument and Soberania National Park, with Doctors Marina Wong and James Karr, from January 16 through April 12, 1985.
Itzel D. Angulo, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Population Structure and Ecology of Spiny Lobsters, with Dr. R. Anne Richards, from November 9 through December 21, 1984.
Axel Calderdn, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Breeding Isopods from the Different Coasts of Panama, with Dr. James Weinberg, from April 23 through June 7, 1985 and Sea Urchin Studies, with Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from July 15 through October 4, 1985.
Ricardo Calvo, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Simén Bolivar, Venezuela. Study of Reproductive System and Pollination in Erythrina costaricensis, with Dr. Lyn Loveless, from September 7 through December 7, 1985.
Ricardo Caicedo, Marine Ecology Post-Course Award, University of Panama. Distribucién y Aspectos Taxonémicos de los Moluscos Marinos del Archipiélago de Las Mulatas, San Blas, with Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from August 1, 1985 through January 31, 1986.
Alcibiades Cedeno, Exxon Assistant, Universidad de Rio Grande, Brazil. Study of Fish Otoliths, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from September 5, 1985 through January 17, 1986.

<<<Page: 84>>>

Clementina Chung, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Comparative Ecology of Growth Form in Two Species of Palms, with Kevin Hogan, from February 2 through May 10, 1985.
Fernando Cornejo, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Agraria del Pert. Mapping Project of Trees on a 50 hectare Section of Forest on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Robin Foster, from September 11 through December 10, 1985.
Amada Dominguez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Preparation of Illustrated Flora of Seedlings of Panama Tropical Moist Forest, with Dr. Nancy Garwood, from September 2 through November 22, 1985.
Silvia Farrugia and Ernesto Ponce, Exxon Fellows, University of Panama. Distribucién de invertebrados en un manglar en Juan Dfaz en la estaci6n seca, with Prof. Victor Hugo Tejera and Dr. Neal Smith, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.
Rosa E. Franco, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Iguana Management Project, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.
Octavio Gonzalez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Iguana Management Project, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.
Modesto Guardia, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Physiological Study of Diapause in Certain Species of Beetles, with Dr. Seiji Tanaka, from April 29 through November 8, 1985.
Belkys Jiménez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Habitat Use and Selection by Birds in Soberania National Park, with Dr. James Karr and Kathryn Sieving, from June 10 through August 15, 1985.
Gustavo Justine and Freddy Pérez, Marine Ecology Post-Course Award, Direccidén de Recursos Marinos and University of Panama. Cantidad y calidad energética del material de reserva contenido en las etapas iniciales de vida de los cangrejos Xanthidos: Xanthidius stenberghii y Eurypamopeus planus, with Dr. John Christy, from August 1 through October 31, 1985.
Georgina Lezcano, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Patterns of Leaf Development in Tropical Species: Implications for Carbon Gain and Herbivory, with Doctors Phyllis Coley and Thomas Kursar, from September 11 through December 23, 1985.
Elsa Meza, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Nacional del Centro del Pert. Study of Tachygalia Trees on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Robin Foster, from April 5 thorugh October 1, 1985.
Angel Modes, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Population Dynamics and Ecology of Rocky Intertidal Organisms, with Dr. Hugh Caffey, from October 15, 1984 through January 4, 1985.
Luis Manuel Mota, Exxon Assistant, Universidad Nacional Auténoma de México. Experimental Study of Selection of Natural Diets by Hatchling Iguanas, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from May 17 through September 15, 1985.

<<<Page: 85>>>

Freddy Pérez, Exxon Assistant and Tinker Intern, Universidad del Valle, Colombia. Body Size, Reproductive Traits and Mating System of Fiddler Crabs of the Pacific Coast of Panama, with Dr. John Christy, from April 23 through October 15, 1985.
Ada Rodriguez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Study of Leaf Loss on Ten Different Plants in a Tropical Forest, with Dr. Peter Becker, from May 29 through December 31, 1985.
Jorge Roldan, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Faunal Study of the Kuna-Yala Nature Reserve, with Mickey Marcus and Susan Charnley from October 1, 1984 through June 24, 1985.
Myozotis Ryfkogel, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Demographic Study of Tropical House Wrens, with Dr. Leonard Freed, from July 8 through September 27, 1985.
Nereyda Sdnchez, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Management of the Green Iguana, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.
Roger Séptimc, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. Efectos Agroecdlogicos de la Carretera Chiriqui-Bocas del Toro sobre la Poblacién Guaymi, with Doctors Luz Graciela Joly, John Bort and Richard Cooke, from August 5 through November 15, 1985.
Isabel Urrieztieta, Exxon Assistant, Fundacién Cientifica Los Roques, Venezuela. The Biology of Commensal Crustaceans and Population Biology of
Acropora cervi cornis, with Dr. Nancy Knowlton, from September 22 through
December 15, 1985.
Maria Vergara, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Management of the Green Iguana, with Dr. Dagmar Werner, from February 15 through May 15, 1985.
Ileana Visuetti, Exxon Assistant, University of Panama. Breeding Experiments between Isopods of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, with Dr. James Weinberg, from October 3 through December 12, 1985.
Luis Wong, Exxon Assistant, University of Havana. Population Biology of the Coral, Pocillepora damicornis in the Eastern Pacific, with Dr. Robert Richmond, from September 2 through November 22, 1985.
Ernesto Weil, Exxon Assistant, Fundaci6én Cientffica Los Roques, Venezuela. Study of Encrusting Organisms on Coral Reefs on Both Coasts of Panama, with Dr. Jeremy J.C. Jackson, from June 12 through November 30, 1985.
Fernando Zapata, Exxon Assistant, University of Arizona, Study of Seabasses in the San Blas Islands and Taboga Island, with Dr. Christopher Petersen, from June 10 through August 17, 1985.
Lydia Zubieta, Intern, Hood College, Courtship Behavior of Fiddler Crabs and Dispersal of Crab Larvae, with Dr. John Christy, from May 23 through July 31% 1985

<<<Page: 86>>>

Visiting Scholars
Dr. Rodolfo Dirzo, Universidad Auténoma de México. Dr. Jack Goody, Cambridge University.
Dr. Esther Goody, Cambridge University.
Dr. Nigel Franks, University of Bath, England.
Ms. Dominique Irvine, Stanford University.
Lic. Victor Martinez, Universidad Autonoma de México. Dr. Ernest Williams, Harvard University.
CENTER FOR ASIAN ART FREER GALLERY OF ART and the ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Katharine Burnett, Freer Fellow, M. A. Candidate, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. "The Shanghai Collector P'ang Lai-ch'en,"
with Dr. Shen C. Y. Fu, from January 22 through May 31, 1985.
Raman Srinivasan, Smithsonian Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "A Scientific and Historical Investigation of Aranmulla Mirrors: A Case Study in Metal Technology," with W. Thomas Chase and Martha Goodway, from June 17 through August 10, 1985.
Richard Wilson, Smithsonian Postdoctoral Fellow. Assistant Professor of Art History, Rice University. ''Problems in Connoisseurship: Ceramics and Paintings Attributed to Ogata Kenzan (1633-1743) in the Freer Gallery of Art," with Louise A. Cort, from June 1, 1985 through May 313" 1986.
Albrecnt, Thomas, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. candidate, Brown University. Work and study in the Assistant Director's Office, with Harold Pfister, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.
Ameen, Sounad, M.A. candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Work and study in the Registrar's Office, with Cordelia Rose, from August 30, 1985 to October 31, 1985.
Berger, Laura, The Wooster School, Work and study in the Director's Office, with William Gaske, May 1, 1985 to June 30, 1985.
Brody, Barbara, M.A. candidate, New York University. Work and study in the Capital Campaign Office, with Richard Stainbrook, from July 23, 1985 to September 30, 1985.
Brostoff, Lynn, B.A., Institute of Fine Arts. Work and study in Paper Conservation and the Drawings and Prints Department, with Konstanze Bachmann, from February 7, 1985 to May 20, 1985.
Cire, Annette, M. A. candidate, University of Bonn. Work and study in
the Director's Office, with Lisa Taylor, from February 25, 1985 to April 5, 1985.

<<<Page: 87>>>

v/a)
Clarke, Kathryn, B.A. candidate, Colby College. Work and study in the Director's Office, with Lisa Taylor, from January 2, 1985 to January 31. 1985.
Connor, Mary Ellen, B.A., Wheaton College. Work and study in the Director's Office, with Lisa Taylor, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.
Deeley, Ann, B.A. candidate, University of Scranton. Work and study in the Capital*Campaign Office, with Richard Stainbrook, from January 2, 1985 to January 31, 1985.
Fields, Paris, B.A. candidate, Sarah Lawrence College. Work and study in the Registrar's Office, with Cordelia Rose, from October 19, 1984 to January 31, 1985.
Foster, Rebecca, B.A. candidate, Williams College. Work and study in the Exhibitions Department, with Zette Emmons, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.
Gaardboe, Susan, B.A. candidate, New York University. Work and study in Textile Conservation, with Lucy Commoner, from January 22, 1985 to October 31, 1985.
‘Gessner, Barclay, B.A. candidate, Williams College. Work and study in
the Programs Department, with Susan Yelavich, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.
Gillman, Sarah, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Work and study in the Publications Department, with Nancy Akre, from June 10, 1985 to August 165,21985.
Haviland, Patricia, M.A., Iowa State University. Work and study in Textile Conservation, with Lucy Commoner, from January 2, 1985 to September 30, 1985.
Hirsch, Elizabeth, B.A., Rhode Island School of Design. Work and study in the Textiles Department, with Milton Sonday, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.
Lafond, John H., M.A. candidate, New York University. Work and study in the Exhibitions Department, with Dorothy Globus, from February 11, 1985 to May 30, 1985.
Larsen, Diana, B.A., University of British Columbia. Work and study in the Decorative Arts Department, with David McFadden, from January 23, 1985 to January 31, 1986.
Sideman, Luke, B.A., New York University. Work and study in the Registrar's Office, with Cordelia Rose, from June 10, 1985. to August 16, 1985. Smith, Alexandra, B.A. candidate, The Hollins College. Work and study in the Drawings and Prints Department, with Elaine Dee, from January 2, 1985 to January 31, 1985.
Tedeschi, Christine, B.A. candidate, Rhode Island School of Design.
Work and study in the Exhibitions Department, with Robin Parkinson, from January 2, 1985 to January 31, 1985.
Ueno, Takemi, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. candidate, Harvard University. Work and study in the Wallcoverings Department, with Ann Dorfsman, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.
Vogel, Elaine, B.A., Indiana University. Work and study in the Public Information Department, with Isabelle Silverman, from September 5, 1985 to December 31, 1985.
Yatzeck, Tanya, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. candidate, Beloit College. Work and study in the Drawings and Prints Department, with Elaine Dee, from June 10, 1985 to August 16, 1985.

<<<Page: 88>>>

Academic and Research Training Appointments Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Nicholas Natanson, M.A. candidate, University of Iowa. Work and study with Dr. Judith Zilczer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from June 19 through August 19, 1985.
Rebecca Zurier, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. The Draw-
ings of the Ash Can School, with Dr. Judith Zilczer, from April, 1985 through May’, 1986
Internship and Other Student Appointments Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Angela Adams, B.A., College of Wooster. Work and study. with the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Dr. Judith Zilczer and Cynthia Jaffee McCabe, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.
Lisa Burkhalter, B.A., Texas Christian University. Work and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Valerie Fletcher, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.
Audrey Davis, B.A. candidate, University of Virginia. Work and study in the Department of Education, with Teresia Bush, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.
Jennifer Frey, B.A., Stanford University. Work and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Phyllis Rosenzweig, from June 17 through August 23, 1985.
Dayna Johnson, B.A., University of Houston. Work and study in the Department of Education, with Edward P. Lawson, from June 17 through July -2619385..
Hannah Yi, A.B. candidate, Smith College. Work and study in the Department of Exhibits and Design, with Joe Shannon, from June 10 through August 16, 1985.
Eli Bentor, Indiana University. Short-term Visitor, May 1985 to July 1985. Blythe Follet-Colon, University of Connecticut. Graduate Fellow, June 1985 to August 1985.
Sharon Patton, University of Maryland. January 1985 to May 1985.
Elisha Renne, University of Minnesota. Short-term Visitor, June 1985 to August 1985.

<<<Page: 89>>>

Lisa Koenigsberg (Yale University), Pre-doctoral: "Professionalising Domesticity: American Women Writer's on Architecture, 1965-1917"; Sept. 1984-May 1985.
Sandra L. Langer (University of South Carolina), Post-doctoral: “John Frederick Kensett, A Critical Study of His Life and Art"; June-November 1984,
Karol Lawson (University of Virginia), Pre-doctoral: "The American Landscape in Painting and Prints, ca. 1600-1820"; Jan. 1985-Dec. 1985.
J. Gray Sweeney (Grand Valley State College), Post-doctoral: "A Study of Thomas Cole's Iconographic and Stylistic Influence over Mid-nineteenth Century American Painting"; September 1984-Aug. 1985.
Cecile Whiting (Stanford University), Pre-doctoral: "The American Painter's Response to Fascism, 1933-45"; June 1984-May 1985.
Smithsonian Fellows, continuing appointments
Richard Masteller (Whitman College), Post-doctoral, Visiting Scholar, “Satiric Form in the 1930s: Dissident Voices, Dissident Visions"; Sept.-Aug. 1985.
Reginia Perry (Virginia Commonwealth University), Post-doctoral, Ford Foundation Fellowship, “A History of Black American Art, 1650-1984"; Aug.-July 1985.
Martha Anderson (University of Maryland), Pre-doctoral: “The Indigenous Roots of New York Dada"; June 1985.
Nancy Anderson (University of Delaware), Pre-doctoral: “Albert Bierstadt and the California Landscape Painters of the 1870s"; Dec. 1984-Aug. 1985.
Sara Boehm (Bryn Mawr College), Pre-doctoral: "Seth Eastman's Illustrations for Henry Schoolcraft's Historical and Statistical Information Respecting the History, Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States"; Sept. 1985.
Sara Parrott (George Washington University), Pre-doctoral: “Expatriates and Professionals: A Study of the Careers in Italy of American Women Writers and Artists Born Between 1810 and 1850"; Aug. 1984-Aug 1985.

<<<Page: 90>>>

Elizabeth Turner (University of Virginia), Pre-doctoral: “American Artists in Paris, 1920-1929"; Dec. 1984-Aug. 1985.
Susan Rather (University of Delaware), Pre-doctoral: "Paul Manship and Archaism in American Sculpture, 1900-1930"; Dec. 1984-Aug. 1985.
Elizabeth Tebow (University of Maryland), Pre-doctoral: "The Mythical Imagination in American Painting of the Late Nineteenth Century”; Sept. 1984.
University Interns
Kathryn Buttrick, The University of Virginia, September 7, 1984April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.
Debra Harrison, Carnegie-Mellon University, September 7, 1984December 12, 1984. Special project in the Office of Museum Programs.
Kim Kroeger, George Washington University, September 7, 1984April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.
Cynthia Kundar, Pennsylvania State University, January 16, 1985May 15, 1985. Special project in the Office of Museum Programs.
Gail Leeds, George Washington University, January 16, 1985April 19, 1985. Special project in the Office of Museum Programs.
Jonathan Mann, The American University, September 7, 1984April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.
Miguel Seco, Johns Hopkins University, January 16, 1985April 19, 1985. Special Project with the Assistant Director for Museum Resources.
Julie Stein, The University of Virginia, September 7, 1984April 19, 1985. NMAA University Program.
Jason Wrenn, Howard University, January 16, 1985-April 19, 1985. Special project split between the Office of Museum Programs and the Smithsonian's Office of Telecommunications.
April 19, 1985.
Nancy Yeide, The American University, September 7, 1984December 12, 1985. NMAA University Program.
wo Wo

<<<Page: 91>>>

High School Interns:
Leah Gilliam, Tne Sidwell Friends School, Washington, D.C., September 7, 1984-December 12, 1984. Special project in the Office of the Registrar.
Summer Interns:
Emma-Rose Barbar, University of East Anglia, Great Britain June 10, 1985-July 29, 1985. Office of Museum Programs.
Marcie Campbell, Colby College, June 3, 1985-July 22, 1985.. Department of Design and Production.
Ana Soto Canino, Princeton University, June 3, 1985-July 22, 1985. Office of Museum Programs.
Elizabeth Chew, Yale University, June 3, 1985-July 22, 1985. Office of the Director.
Patricia Freuh, University of Wisconsin-Madison, June 3, 1985July 22, 1985. Curatorial Division.
Janice Isemoto, University of California at Santa Barbara, June 3, 1985-July 22, 1985. Curatorial Division.
Anita Saxon, Howard University, June 3, 1985-July 29, 1985. Curatorial Division.
Laila Schulmeisters, Wellesley College, June 3, 1985-July 29, 1985. Department of Design and Production.
Alexandra Woods, Wellesley College, June 3, 1985-July 29, 1985. Office of Research Support.

<<<Page: 92>>>

Interns National Portrait Gallery
Clarissa Cantacuzene, Undergraduate, University of Virginia. Developed and compiled training materials for Education Aide program, with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from June 7, 1985 through July 22, 1985. Denise Carty, Undergraduate, Smith College. Researched and wrote annotations for Peale Papers and participated in the preparation of manuscripts for publication, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Peale Papers, from August 22, 1985 through December 19, 1985.
Thomas H. Coolsen, Graduate work in art history. Updated files related to American Portraits, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of American Portraits, from June 18, 1985 through September 1, 1985.
Susan E. Davis, Graduate, University of Michigan. Conducted searches for Time magazine portraits privately owned and in other public collections, with Fred Voss, History Department, from June 3, 1985 through August 3, 1985.
Shannon M. Duffy, Undergraduate, Mount Holyoke College. Made curatorial records for most recent acquisition of Time magazine covers, with Fred Voss, History Department, from June 6, 1985 through August 23, 1985.
W. McNeill Eaton, Undergraduate, Smith College. Researched and edited Manuscripts, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Peale Papers, from August 27, 1984 through December 3, 1984.
Susan S. Gindlin, Undergraduate, Smith College. Did collection related research on the lives of Robert Ball Hughes and Theobald Chartran, with Dr. Carolyn Carr, Assistant Director for Collections; researched biographical files for Broadcasting exhibition, with Amy Henderson, History Department; and researched nineteenth century American sculpture, with Dr. Ellen G. Miles, Office of the Curator, from August 1984 through January 24, 1985.
Robin E. Hall, Undergraduate, Hollins College. Served as technician in silk screen lab, with Alice Rodowsky Seegers, Department of Exhibits Design & Production, from January 1, 1985 through January 30, 1985. Deborah Macanic Jones, Graduate Student, Howard University. Worked on portraits to be included for the exhibition, "The Portrait in America from 1700-1776," and worked on the portraits by Healy in the collection, with Dr. Ellen G. Miles, Office of the Curator, from September 24, 1984 through December 14, 1984 and July 1, 1985 through September 6, 1985. Nichelle A. Lloyd, High School Student, School Without Walls. Researched office operations, learned how to give guided tours and staff information desk, with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from September 21, 1984 through May 30, 1985.
Christine A. Monsen, College Graduate in art history. Located portrait material for bibliography on portraiture, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from July 3, 1985 through September 5, 1985.
Lesley M. O'Malley, Undergraduate, Denison University. Assisted with dark room tasks, helped in studio and on-site, and with public relations Photographs, with Eugene Mantie, Photo Lab, from June 25, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Katherine L. Ormand, Undergraduate, University of Arizona. Conducted Education Department school programs and observed techniques of conservation, with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from September
4, 1984 through December 14, 1984.

<<<Page: 93>>>

National Portrait Gallery
Edward Bolling Ripley, Undergraduate, Emory and Henry College. Assisted in the Department of Design and Production, with Stephen di Girolamo, Design and Production, from May 28, 1985 through July 2650985
Karen Rubenstein, Undergraduate, Smith College. Researched and helped to organize exhibition of American jurists, with Fred Voss, History Department, from August 22, 1985 through December 19, 1985.
Debra A. Seddon, Undergraduate, Cooper Union College. Assisted in Exhibition Production, with Anice Doak, Exhibits Office, from April 23, 1985 through August 30, 1985.
Karen E. Vance, Undergraduate, Howard University. Conducted Outreach Programs for high schools and senior citizens with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from February 11, 1985 through May 30, 1985. Margaret Weinstein, Undergraduate, Wellesley College. Cataloged portrait data, conducted research, and answered inquiries, with Richard Doud, Catalog of American Portraits, from June 6, 1985 through August 9, 1985.
Ann Boulton, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, State University College at Buffalo, N.Y., Art Conservation Department. Special Projects in Objects Conservation, with Carol A. Grissom, from September 16, 1985 through September 15, 1986.
Julia M. Burke, Conservation Intern, University of Washington at Seattle. Work and Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W. Ballard, from June 17, 1985 through September 27, 1985.
Veletta Canouts, Ph.D., Visiting Scholar, Southern Illinois University. Hopi Social Boundary Maintenance and Exchange Relationships, AD1300-1600, with Ronald L. Bishop, from September 1, 1985 through August 31, 1987.
Theresa M. Colamatteo, Conservation Intern, University of Wisconsin at Minneapolis. Work and Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W. Ballard, from June 17, 1985 through September 27, 1985.
Julian Henderson, Ph.D., Postdoctoral Fellow in Materials Analysis, University of Bradford, United Kingdom, Analysis of Iron Age Glass from Magdalenska Gora, Northwestern Yugoslavia, with Jacqueline S. Olin, from October 1, 1984 through April 30, 1985.
D. Linn Kennedy, Conservation Intern, University of Maryland. Work and Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W. Ballard, from July 15, 1985 through September 20, 1985.
Lana Poffenroth, Conservation Intern, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Work and Study in Textile Conservation, with Mary W. Ballard, from July 15, 1985 through September 20, 1985.
Jane Sugarman, Conservation Intern, University of Delaware at Winterthur. Work and Study in Paper Conservation, with Timothy J. Vitale and Dianne van der Reyden, from September 16, 1985 through September 15, 1986.
Cornelius van Horne, Visiting Conservator, Training School of Restorers, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Special projects in Furniture and Ethnographic Conservation, with Mare A. Williams and Carolyn L. Rose, from September 1, 1984 through July 31, 1985.

<<<Page: 94>>>

David Steingrubey, Office cf Horticulture Intern. Work and study in a plant collection greenhouse, with August A. Dietz IV, Greenhouse-Nursery Division from July 5, 1984 tnrough September 4, 1985.
Jennifer Dimling, Office of Horticulture Intern, B.A. candidate, The Colorado College. Work and study in a plant collection greenhouse, with August A. Dietz, IV, Greenhouse-Nursery PEO from September 14, 1985 through December 14, 1985.
Barbara Young, Gftice of Horticulture Intern, B.S. candidate, Gallaudet College. Work and study in a plant collection greenhouse and on museum grounds, with August A. Dietz IV and Kenneth Hawkins, Greenhouse-Nursery Division and Grounds Management Division from February 7, 1985 through May 9, 1985.
Mary Breeding, Office of Horticulture Intern, B.S. candidate, James Madison University. Work and study in a museum horticulture office, with Kenneth Hawkins, August A. Dietz IV and Kathryn Meehan, Greenhouse-Nursery Division, Grounds Management Division and Historic Horticulture Division from June 3, 1985 through August 16, 1985.
Monica Meehan, Office of Horticulture Intern and a Professional Training Program for Careers in the Floral Industry Trainee, B.S. candidate, University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Work and study in a museum horticulture office with Kenneth Hawkins, August A. Dietz IV, and Kathryn Meehan, Greenhouse-Nursery Division, Grounds Management Division and Historic Horticulture Division from May 28, 1985 through August 9, 1985.

<<<Page: 95>>>

io 9)
ioe)
Interns Placed by The Office of Museum Prograis National Museum of Natural History
Remi Adedayo, Museum of Natural History, Lagos, Nigeria James An, Taiwan Museum
Biodun Areo, Museum of Natural History, Lagos, Nigeria oy Berlin, School of the Art Institute of Chicago Steven Fondriest, Ohio State University
Joseph Keleher, Beloit College
asashi Kimura
Teresa McGervey, California University of Pennsylvania Jessica Meltzer, Earlham College
National Museum of American History
Rebecca Nelson, Ohio Wesleyan University
Rita Organ, California College of Arts and Crafts Lauren Clark, College of the Holy Cross
Andrea Giordano, University of Massachusetts
Judy Harper, Austin College
Barbara Harrick, College of William and Mary Robert Hilton, University of Michigan Ann Arbor Jane Horrocks, University of Maryland
Jedd Kensinger, James Madison University
Vivian Kim, University of California, Irvine Karla Kirk
Yvonne Laboy, University of Maryland
Donna Martin, Smith College
Alice Mastrangelo, Franklin and Marshall College
National Portrait Gallery
Lesley O'Malley, Denison University Thomas Coolsen
National Zoological Park
Irene Pollman
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Stephanie Rachum, Israel Museum
National Air and Space Museum
Kelly Doucet, Gallaudet College
Office of Service and Protocol uljette Sartin
Grace Scarboro, Furman University
Ulrike Duenkesbuehler, University of Konstanz Sara Mendalson, Wellesley College

<<<Page: 96>>>

Museum Shops
Francine Acker, Troyes University of Trade, France Michelle Gerdy, Troyes University of Trade, France
Office of Public Affairs
Mary MacInnis, College of William and Mary Jennifer Mearns, Texas Christian University
Office of Museum Programs
Mary McFarland, Hollins College
Meg Fowler, Georgetown University
Francine Furey, University of Scranton
Lorena Garmezy, Cornell University
Rachel Lerner, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor Michael Judd, George Washington University Resident Associates Program
Jeffrey McKibben, Georgetown University Margaret Coaldrake, University of Leicester
Office of Folklife
Cynthia Moore
Nancy Darby, Montgomery College
Gretchen Frick, George Washington University
Frank Lepore, University of Maryland
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Sylviane Ashworth, Bibliotheque de Documentation Intntl. Smithsonian Press
Elizabeth Estes, University of the South
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibitions Service Lindsey Haines
Smithsonian Castle
Scott Hall
Office of Exhibits Central
Harry Haon, University of Oregon
(oe) \O

<<<Page: 97>>>

Julie Hamman, B.A. candidate, Portland State University. Survey of Animalrelated Records at the National Zoological Park, with William A. Deiss, from September 30 through December 10, 1985.
Catherine McGeehan, B.A. candidate, The George Washington University. Archival work on the Collected Letters on Ethnology and the Papers of Ernest P. Walker, with William A. Deiss, from June 3 through July 31, 1985. Margaret Stevens, B.A., The University of Virginia. Work on the Photograph Survey Project, with Diane L Vogt Oars from June 7 through September 30, 1985.
Donna Webber, B.A. The iacsachusctee Institute of Technology Archives. Work on the SIBIS Automation System from April 8 through May 3, 1985.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service Interns
Thereza Crowe, M.A. candidate, St. Andrews University, Edinburgh, Scotland. Conducted research with Donald McClelland for Views of Rome and Art From Our
Time: Selections from the Olga Hirshhorn Collection from June 1985 through August 1985.
Cathy Griggs, B.A. candidate, George Washington University. Assisted in the research and selection of artifacts for the "hands-on" archaeology kit being developed by the Education Department from July 1985 through August 1985.
Lindsey Haines, B.A., 1984, University of California, Los Angeles. Aided with the research and coordination of the catalogue for Three Centuries of German Painting and Drawing; assisted Ann Singer and Ronald Geatz, Public Affairs Office, with the organization of the Cultural Attache Reception and updated the SITES mailing list; researched educational programs for Martha a eet and Marjorie Share; from January 1985 through March 1985.
Wynne Harrison, B.A., 1985, Pennsylvania State University. Researched and developed education materials with Marjorie Share for Audubon: Science Into Art and Material Evidence: New Color Techniques in Handmade Furniture;
conducted preliminary research on Canminity Industries of the Shakers from June 1985 through August 1985.
Emily Stern, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Assisted Betty Teller and Mary Bet Dobson with the exhibition Hollywood: Lecend and Reality; prepared text and photographs for the brochure to accompany Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria from June 1985 to August 1985.

<<<Page: 98>>>

Nancy Darby, B.A. candidate, Montgomery College, Maryland, with “Dr 4 Richard’ Kurin,.,from May: 21). through, August,2;, 21985).
Gretchen Frick, M.A. candidate, George Washington University, Washington, D.C., with Marjorie Hunt, from September 2 through October, 15,1985.
Louise Victoria Jeffredo, B.A. candidate, University of Southern California, with Alicia Gonzalez, from June 10 through August 9, 1985.
Frank Lepore, B.A. candidate, University of Maryland, with Richard Derbyshire, from November 6, 1984 through May 3, 1985.
Cynthia Moore, B.A., Miami University, Ohio, with Dr. Peter Seitel, from October 29, 1984 through January 3, 1985.
Office of Museum Programs Visiting Professionals, 1985
El-Hussein Abou al-Atta, Greco-Roman Museum, Egypt
Hagura Adachi, Modern Art Museum of Kama Kura; Japan
Nayla Ali Al Khalifa, Ministry of Information and Culture, Bahrain Juan Alvarez, Kenosha Public Museum, Wisconsin
Saphalya Amatya, Department of Archeology, Nepal
Mario Socorro Arras-Rodriguez, INBA, Chihuahua, Mexico
Seema Bhatt, World Wildlife Fund, New Delhi, India
Suhail S. Bisharat, Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts, Jordan Maria Elvira Bonila-Otoya, Gold Museum, Columbia
Paulo Brochado, Porto Allegre, Brazil
Cecilia Brugnini, Montevideo, Uruguay
Stella Butler, Greater Manchester Museum of Science and Industry, England Sahib Khan Channo, Archives, Govt. of Sind, Pakistan
Yeshwant Chaudhary, Society of Industrial Designers, India Wenhao Chou, National Museum of Natural Science; Taiwan
Nanette Clark, Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum Antonio Cordova, City of Bayamon, Puerto Rico
Audixford Coronel, Porto Allegre, Brazil
Janeen Costa, Utah Museum of Natural History
James Coulter, Glasgow Art Gallery and Museum, U. K.
Jan Davidson, Mountain Heritage Center, North Carolina
Dakoji Devraj, LaLit Kala Studios, New Delhi, India
Deborah Dunn, Bishop Museum, Hawaii
Mrs. Robert Dunne, California Academy of Sciences
J. Struan Ensor, Auckland Institute and Museum, New Zealand Feisal A. H. Esmael, Egyptian Antiquities Organization, Egypt Ragayan Eusoff, Bank Negara Malaysia
James Fajardo, Hearst San Simeon Historical Monument
Hanna Aly Farid, Kuwait National Museum, Kuwait

<<<Page: 99>>>

Graeme Farnell, Scottish Museum Council
Wendy Fitch, Manitoba Museum of Man
Eva Forgacs, Museum of Applied Arts, Hungary
Gladys Edith Magdalen Fullman, Fiji Museum, Fiji
Giuseppe Gambardella, Universita di Genova
Tapan Ganguly, Natl. Council of Science Museums, India
Joao Carlos Garcia, Observatorio Nacional, Brazil
Annete Gibbs, Charlotte Brown Project, North Carolina Deborah Graham, Missouri Botanical Garden
M. G. Grainger, Ministry of Works and Development, New Zealand Almeida Guarita, Dept. of Museums and Archives, Sao Paulo, Brazil Frans Haak, Groninger Museum, The Netherlands
Andrea Hauenschild-Frank 7 Stanley J. Hipwood, Los Alamos National Laboratory
Maria Iacob, Council of Culture and Education, Romania
Jacob Ikunyua, Kitale Museum, Kenya
Elizabeth Jacob, National Museum of Natural History, India Marlene Jaffe, Textile Conservation Workshop, New York William Jeffries, Parliamentary Under-Secretary, New Zealand Somnuk Kaekrachang, Parliamentary Museum, Thailand
Khader Ibrahim Salameh Khmour, Al-aqsa Library, West Bank/Jerusalem Dag Kjelldahl, Oslo, Norway
Yuko Kodama, Hokkaido Museum of Modern Art, Japan
Andrew Kugfas, State Historic Preservation Office, Yap Antoine Landreau, Institut Superieur des Carrieres Artisitiques Ang Kim Ling, Bank Negara Malaysia
Hilde Lobel, Memling Museum, Belgium
Patricia Lontoc, Barangay Manggahan, Philippines
Peter Ludvigsen, Arbejdermuseet, Copenhagen, Denmark
Richard MacLeod, U. S. Space Foundation, Colorado
Maria Maldonado, Republican Bank, Columbia
Maureen McDonough, Michigan State University
Darryl McIntyre, Australian War Memorial
Patsy McMillan, Klamath Falls Museum Complex
Terence Measham, Australian National Gallery
Jayashree Mohta, Birla Academy of Art and Culture
Mohammed Mousli, Department of Antiquities, Syria
Alessandra Mottola Molfino, Museo Poldi Pezzol, Italy
Jose Munoz, USIS, Quito, Ecuador
Ahmed Nabi-Khan, Augaf Department, Punjab Govt., Pakistan Lilas Okita, Centre for Nigerian Cultural Studies, Nigeria Joyce Padem-Sing, New Amsterdam Museum, Suriname
Javiar Pava, Centro Nacional de Restauracion, Colombia George Perry, Austin Nature Center, Texas
Steven Pollock, British Museum, Natural History
Harrison Prince, Red Mountain Museum, Alabama
Dilip Ramade, Prince of Wales Museum, India
Sharon Rao, The Gallery, Madras, India
Renato Romoli-Martinez, Natl. Museum of Nat. Hist., Dominican Republic
Barbara Rountree, Children's Hands On Museum, Alabama
Archana Roy, Birla Academy of Art and Culture, India
Keith Russell, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia Mohamed Saleh, Egyptian Museum, Egypt
Kartikeya Sarabhai, Centre for Environmental Education, India Colleen Schafroth, Horner Museum, Oregon
Johann-Karl Schnidt, Landsmuseum, Fed. Rep. of Germany

<<<Page: 100>>>

Catnerine Scott, L. A. Cnildrens Museuai
G. K. Snarotri, National Museum of Art, India
Yasuko Snimizo, Hokxaido Museum of Modern Art, Japan Rayendra Shrestha, Natural History Museum, Nepal
Beverly Smalls, New Hanover County Museum, North Carolina Rosalie Smith-McCrea, National Gallery of Jamaica Christoph Stoelzl, Munich City Museum, Fed. Rep. of Germany Diane Turner, Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum Mr. Wahyono, National Museum, Indonesia
Anne-Lise Walsted, Arbejdermuseet, Copenhagen, Denmark Said Ahmed Warsama, ISERT, Djibouti
Kimberly Webber, University of Sydney, Australia
Susan Will, Fort Egbert, Eagle, Alaska
Denis Williams, Gog Walter Roth Museum, Guyana
David Wixted, Natl. Trust of Queensland, Australia
Dennis Zamora, Spanish Colonial History of Texas Project Barbara Zucker, I]linois Cooperative Conservation Program

<<<Page: 101>>>

Appendix 5
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1985
Aditi: The Living Arts of India. Dedication by Robert McC. Adams; Foreword hy S. Dillon Ripley; Preface by Rajeev Sethi; Introduction by Pupul Jayakar. 280 pages, 71 color and 200 black-and-white illustrations, 1 map. Cloth: $27.50; Paper: $14.95. June 1985.
Ann Uhry Abrams. The Valiant Hero: Benjamin West and Grand-Style History Painting. 256 pages, 7 color and 142 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $39.95; Paper: $19.95. Auqust 1985.
Esin Atil, W. T. Chase, and Paul Jett. Islamic Metalwork in the Freer Gallery of Art. 274 pages, 195 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $17.50. September 1985.
Pieter Bleeker. Atlas Ichtyologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises-Volume IV: Murenes, Symbranches et Leptocephales (Atlas of Fishes of the Dutch Fast Indies). 132 pages, 49 color plates. Cloth: $50.00. May 1985.
Walter J. Boyne. Phantom in Combat. 176 pages, 269 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $22.50. April 1985.
Beverly J. Cox and Denna Jones Anderson. Miguel Covarrubias Caricatures. With essays by Al Hirschfeld and Bernard F. Reilly, Jr.; Foreword by Alan Fern. 164 pages, 15 color and 87 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $24.95; Paper: $12.50. January 1985.
David Damas, editor. Handhook of North American Indians--Arctic: Volume 5. 862 pages, 579 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $29.00. January 1985.
Howard Ensign Evans. The Pleasures of Entomology: Portraits of Insects and the People Who Study Them. 238 pages, 19 black-and-white illustrations. Paper:.$14.95. April 1985. :
George Gurney. Sculpture and the Federal Triangle. Introduction hy Joshua C. Taylor; Foreword by James M. Goode. 464 pages, 261 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $39.95. August 1985.
Lynda Roscoe Hartigan. Sharing Traditions: Five Rlack Artists in Nineteenth-Century America. Foreword by Charles C. Fldredge. 120 pages, 13 color and 70 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $14.95. January 1985.

<<<Page: 102>>>

James R. Heintze. Scholars' Guide to Washington, D.C. for Audio
Resources: Sound Recordings in the Arts, Humanities, and Social, Physical,
and Life Sciences. With contributions by Trudi W. Olivetti, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. 396 pages. Cloth: $29.95; Paper: $15.00. May 1985.
Clarence L. "Kelly" Johnson with Maggie Smith. Kelly--More Than My Share of It All. Foreword by Brigadier General Leo Geary (U.S.A.F. Ret.). 210 pages, 22 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $17.50. May 1985.
David B. Lellinger.. A Field Manual of the Ferns and Fern-Allies of the United States and Canada. 446 pages, 402 color and 26 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $45.00; Paper: $29.95. September 1985.
Leah Lipton. A Truthful Likeness: Chester Harding and His Portraits. Foreword by Alan Fern. 196 pages, 13 color and 401 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $19.95. June 1985.
Robert McCarl. The District of Columbia Fire Fighters' Project: A Case Study in Occupational Folklife. Foreword hy Thomas Vennum, Jr. 244 pages, 34 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $9.95. July 1985.
Marie C. Malaro. A Legal Primer on Managing Museum Collections. 366 pages. Cloth: $29.95. August 1985.
Katherine Manthorne. Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic Edwin Church. Foreword by Charles C. Fldredge; Introduction hy Richard S. Fiske and Flizabeth Nielsen. 88 pages, 6 color and 52 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. Paper: $14.95. March 1985.
Robert C. Mikesh and Osamu Tagaya. Moonlight Interceptor: The Story of Japan's "Irving" Night. 112 pages, 4 color and 132 black-and-white illustrations, 3 maps. Paper: $9.95. June 1985.
Lon O. Nordeen, Jr. Air Warfare in the Missile Aqe. 266 pages, 112 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. Cloth: $24.95. August 1985.
Claudia M. Oakes and Kathleen L. Brooks-Pazmany, compilers. Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum. Third edition. 76 pages, 373 blackand-white illustrations. May 1985.
Nathan Reingold, editor. The Papers of Joseph Henry--Volume Five: The Princeton Years January 1841-December 1843. 500 pages, 246 line cuts, 13 portraits. Cloth: $45.00. September 1985.
Peter T. Rohrbach and Lowell S. Newman. American Issue: The U.S. Postaqde Stamp, 1842-1869. 232 pages, 109 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $19.95. December 1984.
Richard H. Stroud, editor. National Leaders of American Conservation. 432 pages. Paper: $24.95. June 1985.
Sara D. Toney with the assistance of Sherryl K. Kohr and Deborah FE. Corsi. Smithsonian Surprises. 96 pages, 75 color and 30 hlack-and-white illustrations. Paper: $7.95. Auqust 1985.

<<<Page: 103>>>

Nicholas Fox Weber, Mary Jane Jacob, and Richard S. Field. The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers. Introduction by Lloyd E. Herman; Foreword by Anni Albers. 140 pages, 40 color and 88 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $39.95; Paper: $17.50. July 1985.
Nancy Wells-Gosling. Flying Squirrels: Gliders in the Dark. Foreword by Dorcas MacClintock. 128 pages, 79 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. . Cloth: $24.95; Paper: $9.95. August 1985.
Alexander Wetmore, Roger F. Pasquier, and Storrs L. Olson. The Birds of the Republic of Panama--Part 4, Order Passeriformes, Suborder Passeres, Hirundinidae (Swallows) to Fringillidae (Finches). 670 pages, 1 color and 49 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $29.95. December 1984.
Fred L. Whipple. The Mystery of Comets. 276 pages, 17 color and 119
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $24.95; Paper: $12.50. September 1985.
Trade Reprints
Roland W. Brown. Composition of Scientific Words. 882 pages. Cloth:
$24.95. December 1984.
Grace Rogers Cooper. The Sewing Machine: Its Invention and Development. Revised edition. 238 pages, 216 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $27.50. July 1985.
John C. Ewers. The Horse in Blackfoot Indian Culture. 374 pages, 33 figures, 17 plates. Paper: $15.00. June 1985.
William W. Fitzhugh and Susan A. Kaplan. Inua: Spirit World of the Bering Sea Eskimo. 295 pages, 8 color and 500 black-and-white illustrations,
maps. Cloth: $35.00; Paper: $19.95. February 1985.
Paul A. Johnsgard. Hummingbirds of North America. 303 pages, 16 color and. 75 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $35.00. December 1984.
John Murdoch. Ethnological Results of the Point Barrow Fxpedition. 450 pages, 428 figures, 2 maps. Paper: $19.95. March 1985.
Allan Needell, editor. The First Twenty-five Years in Space. 165 pages, 5 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $12.50. November 1984.
Donald J. Ortner and Walter G. J. Putschar. Identification of Pathological
Conditions in Human Skeletal Remains. 488 pages, 765 figures, 14 tables.
Cloth: $29.95. June 1985. John J. Protopappas and Lin Brown, editors. Washington on Foot. Third Edition, revised. 224 pages, 95 black-and-white illustrations, 26 maps.
Paper: $4.95. June 1985.
Tom Simkin and Richard S. Fiske. Krakatau 1882--The Volcanic Eruption and
Its Effects. 464 pages, 49 color and 139 hlack-and-white illustrations.
Cloth: $25.00; Paper: 19.95. October 1984.

<<<Page: 104>>>

John R. Swanton. Indian Tribes of North America. 726 pages, 4 maps. Paper: $35.00 December 1984.
John R. Swanton. Final Report of the United States De Soto Commission. 400 pages, 12 maps, diagrams. Paper: $19.95. April 1985.
Cyrus Thomas. Report of the Mound Fxplorations of the Bureau of Fthnology. 742 pages, 41 black-and-white illustrations, 344 figures. Paper: $25.00. May 1985.
Stephen E. Weil. Beauty and the Beasts: On Museums, Art, the Law, and the Market. 272 pages. Cloth: $19.95; Paper: $9.95. May 1985.
Frank H. Winter. Prelude to the Space Age--The Rocket Societies: 1924-1940. 222 pages, 52 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $15.00. October 1984.
E. T. Wooldridge. Winged Wonders: The Story of the Flying Wings. 230 pages, 224 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $17.50. June 1985.
DIRECT-MAIL BOOKS James S. Trefil. Space, Time, Infinity: The Smithsonian Views the
Universe. 256 pages, 257 color and 58 black-and-white illustrations. Associates: $19.95; Non-Associates: $21.96; Trade: $29.95. June 1985.
American Historical Association Annual Report 1983. 184 pages. January 1985. Report of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center October 1, 1983,
through September 30, 1984. 28 pages. July 1985. Report of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute October 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984. 38 pages, 2 black-and-white illustrations. July 1985. = Smithsonian Year 1984. 694 pages, 62 black-and-white illustrations. May 1985.
Museum Shops
Official Guide to the Smithsonian Institution. 144 pages, 170 color and 17 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $2.95. April 1985 (third printing).

<<<Page: 105>>>

Mational Air and Space Museum
National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984. 218 pages, 17 color and 38 black-and-white illustrations, 3 fiqures, 13 tahles, 4 maps.
November 1984. National Museum of Natural History
Microscopic Properties of Meteorites by G. Tschermak. 144 pages, and-white illustrations. October 1984.
Office of Fellowships and Grants
25 black-
Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History, Art, Science.
176 pages. September 1985.
Freer Gallery of Art
Eighth Presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal. 4 pages, 1
black-and-white illustration. May 1985.
James Smithson Society
James Smithson Society Invitation. 12 pages. June 1985. James Smithson Society Dinner Program. 28 pages. September 1985.
National Museum of African Art
illustrations. September 1985. National Museum of American Art
Barney Studio House Information Brochure (Revised). 2 pages, 7
black-and-white illustrations. February 1985.
National Museum of Natural History
1985.< pages, 4 black-and-white illustrations. February 1985.
National Portrait Gallery
The National Portrait Gallery (Revised). 12 pages, 1 color and 26 black-andwhite illustrations. May 1985.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
black-and-white illustrations. January 1985.
Education Programs and Resources 1985-1986. 16 pages, 6 black-and-white
The National Museum of Natural History: 75 Years in the New National Museum by Ellis L. Yoehelson. 24 pages, 29 black-and-white illustrations.
March
National Museum of Natural History/Natural Science Symposium Program. 4
Making Sense: Writing from Objects--A Smithsonian Approach. 8 pages, 4 black-and-white illustrations. November 1984. Treaty of Paris: The Work of Peace. 43 pages, 1 color and 5

<<<Page: 106>>>

BROCHURES National Museum of African Art
Igbo Arts: Community and Cosmos. 8 pages, 11 black-and-white illustrations. July 1985.
National Museum of American Art
National Museum of American Art (calendar of events). 2 pages, 12 black-andwhite illustrations. December 1984.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education Intern 85. 6 pages, 7 black-and-white illustrations. Movember 1984. Office of Equal Opportunity Equal Opportunity Program of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. August 1985. How the Discrimination Complaint System Works at the Smithsonian Institution. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. June 1985.
Office of Membership and Development
Life-Income Gifts to the Smithsonian Institution: Pooled-Income Fund. pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. March 1985.
Office of Museum Programs On-Site Workshop Program. 4 pages. August 1985.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Panorama of India. 8 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. June 1985.
Smithsonian Institution Press
Archives of American Art Journal Circular. 4 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. July 1985.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Oportunidades de Investigacion en el Tropico: Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute. 6 pages, 1 color and 2 black-and-white illustrations.
March 1985.
Office of Museum Programs
National Museum Act Guidelines for 1986 Grant Programs. 28 pages. June
1985.

<<<Page: 107>>>

Office of Personnel Administration
Employment at the Smithsonian Institution. 16 pages, 8 black-and-white
illustrations. June 1985.
Smithsonian Institution Press
American Popular Song: Six Decades of Songwriters and Singers (Reprint).
52 pages, 104 black-and-white illustrations. June 1985. First Ladies' Hall by Margaret Brown Klapthor (Reprint). 24 pages, 9 color
and 48 black-and-white illustrations. January 1985.
Official White House China: 1918 to the Present by Margaret Brown
Klapthor. 26 pages, 18 color and 2 black-and-white illustrations.
November 1984.
EXHIBITION CATALOGS Freer Gallery of Art
Islamic Metalwork in the Freer Gallery of Art by Esin Atil, W. T. Chase,
and Paul Jett. 274 pages, 195 black-and-white illustrations. September
1985.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
A New Romanticism: Sixteen Artists from Italy by Howard N. Fox. 124 pages,
46 color and 15 black-and-white illustrations. September 1985.
Representation Abroad by Joe Shannon. 222 pages, 38 color and 138
black-and-white illustrations. May 1985. Selections from the Collection of Marion and Gustave Ring. 64 pages, 50
color and 1 black-and-white illustrations. September 1985.
National Air and Space Museum
Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum. 212 pages, 1 color and 342
black-and-white illustrations. June 1985.
National Museum of American Art
Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic Edwin Church by
Katherine Manthorne. Foreword by Charles C. Eldredge; Introduction by Richard S. Fiske and Elizabeth Nielsen. 88 pages, 6 color and 52 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. March 1985. (Distributed by SI Press)
The Martha Jackson Memorial Collection. 114 pages, 1 color and 137
black-and-white illustrations. June 1985. Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America by
Lynda Roscoe Hartigan. Foreword by Charles C. Eldredge. 120 pages, 13
color and 70 black-and-white illustrations. January 1985. (Distributed by SI Press)
National Portrait Gallery
Joseph Wright: American Artist, 1756-1793 by Monroe H. Fabian. 160 pages,
8 color and 49 black-and-white illustrations. April 1985.
Miquel Covarrubias Caricatures by Beverly J. Cox and Denna Jones Anderson.
164 pages, 15 color and 87 black-and-white illustrations. November 1984.

<<<Page: 108>>>

National Museum of American Art Alice Pike Barney: Pastel Portraits from Studio House by Jean Lewton. 8 pages, 5 black-and-white illustrations. November 1984.
The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers. 6 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. June 1985.
FLYERS Freer Gallery of Art
Islamic Metalware. 2 pages. September 1985. National Air and Space Museum
Space Shuttle (Study Print). 2 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. September 1985.
Office of Horticulture
Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration, 2 maps. December 1984.
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Institution Press Organization Chart. 1-:page. December 1984.
POSTERS National Museum of American Art
Continuing Traditions: A Festival of Afro-American Arts. 2 pages, 1 color and 10 black-and-white illustrations. January 1985.
Office of Fellowships and Grants Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities 1985-1986. 2 pages. October 1984. Fellowships in Residence at the Smithsonian Institution. 1 page, 1 black-and-white illustration. August 1985.
Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities 1986-1987. 2 pages. August 1985.
INVITATIONS Freer Gallery of Art
Eighth Presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal. 1 page. May 1985.

<<<Page: 109>>>

James Smithson Society
James Smithson Society (Invitation to join). 12 pages, 1 hlack-and-white illustration. November 1984.
National Museum of American Art
The Afro-American Artist in the Nineteenth Century: Darktown Strutters' Ball. 2 pages. January 1985.
Architecture in Silver. 1 page, 1 color illustration. June 1985.
Forum '85: A Question of Place. 5 pages. January 1985.
Homage to Franz Kline: Photographs by Aaron Siskind. 2 pages. November 1984.
LIFE--The Second Decade, 1946-1955: Years of Challenge, Years of Hope. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. January 1985.
The Martha Jackson Memorial Collection. 6 pages. May 1985.
Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America. 2 pages. November 1984.
The Woven and Graphic Art of Anni Albers. 6 pages, 2 black-and-white illustrations. May 1985.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries Manuscript of the Dibner Collection (reception invitation). 4 pages, 1
black-and-whiteillustration. August 1985. Panorama of India Exhibition (reception invitation). 1 page. July 1985.
MISCELLANEOUS Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Art to Zoo Let's Go to the Smithsonian
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Directory of Fellows (cover). 2 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. August 1985.
Office of Public Affairs
Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, Number 43, Autumn 1984. 8 pages, 13 black-and-white illustrations. October 1984.
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Guide to the Papers of Charles P. Alexander, circa 1870-1982. 1 page. February 1985.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Robert E. Silberglied Bookplate. October 1984.

<<<Page: 110>>>

Smithsonian Institution Press
National Air and Space Museum Archival Videodiscs 1 and 2. May 1985.
SERIES -PUBLICATIONS Smithsonian Contributions to Botany
55. Patricia G. Palmer, Susan Gerbeth-Jones, and Susan Hutchison. "A Scanning Electron Microscope Survey of the Epidermis of East African Grasses, III." 136 pages, 98 black-and-white plates. May 1985.
56. Otto Huber and John J. Wurdack. "History of Botanical Exploration in Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela." 83 pages, 2 tables, 10 maps. November 1984.
57. Tatiana Sendulsky and Thomas R. Soderstrom. "Revision of the South American Genus Otachyrium (Poaceae: Panicoideae)." 29 pages, 7 black-andwhite figures. December 1984.
59. Fernando 0. Zuloaga and Thomas R. Soderstrom. "Classification of the Outlying Species of New World Panicum (Poaceae: Paniceae)." 63 pages, 25 black-and-white figures, 2 tables. May 1985.
Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
24. Brian Kensley. "The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, III: New Marine Isopoda." 8&1 pages, 48 black-and-white figures. November 1984.
25. R. Craig Shipp, Stephanie A. Staples, and Walter H. Adey. "Geomorphologic Trends in a Glaciated Coastal Bay: A Model for the Maine Coast." 76 pages, 44 black-and-white figures, 3 tables. June 1985.
26. Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent Benthic Foraminifera off the North American Pacific Coast from Oregon to Alaska." 234 pages, 139 black-and-white figures, 2 tables. August 1985.
Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology
57. Jessica A. Harrison. "Giant Camels from the Cenozoic of North America." 29 pages, 17 black-and-white figures. June 1985.
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology
396. Karl V. Krombein. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XIV: A Revision of Carinostigmus Tsuneki (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Pemphredonidae)." 37 pages, 52 black-and-white figures. October 1984.
399. Arthur H. Clarke. "The Tribe Alasmidontini (Unionidae: Anodontinae), Part II: Lasmigona and Simpsonaias." 75 pages, 22 black-and-white figures, 14 tables. March 1985.

<<<Page: 111>>>

402. W. Ronald Heyer. "Variation, Systematics, and Zoogeography of Eleutherodactylus guentheri and Closely Related Species (Amphibia: Anura: Leptodactylidae)." 42 pages, 25 black-and-white figures, 20 tables. November 1984.
403. Richard S. Houbrick. "Genus Clypeomorus Jousseaume (Cerithiidae: Prosobranchia)." 131 pages, 62 black-and-white figures, 33 tables. April 1985.
404. Karl V. Krombein and Sandra Shanks Gingras. "Revision of North American Liris Fabricius (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Larridae)." 96 pages, 49 black-and-white figures. December 1984.
405. John M. Burns. “Evolutionary Differentiation: Differentiating Goldbanded Skippers--Autochton cellus and More (Lepidoptera: Pyrginae)." 38 pages, 90 black-and-white figures, 3 tables. December 1984.
406. Wayne N. Mathis and Kumar D. Ghorpade. "Studies of Parydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), I: A Review of the Genus Brachydeutera Loew from the Oriental, Australian, and Oceanic Regions." 25 pages, 27 black-and-white figures. February 1985.
407. Richard C. Froeschner. "Synopsis of the Heteroptera or True Bugs of the Galapagos Islands." 84 pages, 43 black-and-white figures, 1 table. May 1985.
408. Louis S. Kornicker. "Sexual Dimorphism, Ontogeny, and Functional Morphology of Rutiderma hartmani Poulsen, 1965 (Crustacea: Ostracoda)." 28 pages, 20 black-and-white figures. January 1985.
409. Janet R. Gomon and Robert H. Gibbs. "Taxonomy and Distribution of the Stomioid Fish Genus Eustomias (Melanostomiidae), II: Subgenus Riradiostomius New Subgenus." 58 pages, 21 black-and-white figures, 5 tables. June 1985.
410. Wayne N. Mathis. "Studies of Parydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), II: A Revision of the Shore Fly Genus Pelinoides Cresson." 46 pages, 59 black-and-white figures. May 1985.
411. Fenner A. Chace, Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 3: Families Thalassocarididae and Pandalidae." 144 pages, 62 black-and-white figures.
August 1985.
412. Thomas H. Fraser and Ernest A. Lachner. "A Revision of the Cardinalfish Subgenera Pristiapogon and Zoramia (Genus Apogon) of the IndoPacific Region (Teleosteii, Apogonidae)." 47 pages, 20 black-and-white figures, 6 tables. May 1985.
414. Karl V. Krombein. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XV: A Monograph of the Alyssoninae, Nyssoninae, and Gorytinae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Nyssonidae)." 43 pages, 39 black-and-white figures. July 1985.

<<<Page: 112>>>

417. S. Dillon Ripley and Bruce Beehler. "Rails of the World: A Compilation of New Information, 1975-1983 (Aves: Rallidae)." 28 pages, 2 figures. September 1985.
Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space
6. Claudia M. Oakes. "United States Women in Aviation 1930-1939." 70 pages, 71 black-and-white figures. August 1985.
Smithsonian Folklife Studies
4. Robert S. McCarl. "The District of Columbia Fire Fighters' Project: A Case Study in Occupational Folklife." 241 pages, frontispiece, 33 blackand-white figures. June 1985.

<<<Page: 113>>>

Appendix 6
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1985
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM Office of the Director
Boyne, W. J. Phantom in Combat. United Kingdom: Jane's Publishing Company, Limited, 1985.
"Howell Miller Zeta.” Air Line Pilot 53(10) (1984).
"General Aviation G.A. 43.” Air Line Pilot 53(11) (1984).
“Vultee XP-54." Air Line Pilot 53(12) (1984).
"Deeble Double-Action Special.” Air Line Pilot 54(1) (1985).
"Chamberlin C-82." Air Line Pilot 54(2) (1985).
"De Havilland DH-4." Air Line Pilot 54(3) (1985).
"Fairchild XAT-13." Air Line Pilot 54(4) (1985).
"Spratt Controlwing.” Air Line Pilot 54(5) (1985).
“Wheelair.” Air Line Pilot 54(6) (1985).
“Detroit Lockheed XP-900." Air Line Pilot 54(7) (1985).
"Martin XB-48." Air Line Pilot 54(8) (1985).-
“Ackerman Tailless.” Air Line Pilot 54(9) (1985).
“Blame It On Women.” AOPA Pilot 27(10) (1984).
"Forever Used.” AOPA Pilot 27(11) (1984).
"Living History." AOPA Pilot 27(12) (1984).
“The Cutting Edge.“ AOPA Pilot 28(1) (1985).
“Stretching Exercises.” AOPA Pilot 28(2) (1985).
"Armchair Aviation.” AOPA Pilot 28(3) (1985).
“Air and. Space.“ AOPA Pilot 2809) ¢1985)).
"America's DH-4." British Aerospace Quarterly, vol. 7, no. 2,
Summer 1985,
ee ee eo 8 eo fe eo oe ee ee eo 8 e
Office of the Associate Director for Research
Hanle, P. A. “Report of the Associate Director for Research: The National Air and Space Museum and Scholarship.” In National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 15-20. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984,
“Congress and the Large Space Telescope." In National Air and
Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 85-95. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984,
“Astronomers, Congress, and the Large Space Telescope.” Sky & Telescope, pp. 300-305, April 1985.
Smith, R. W. “Studies of the Milky Way 1850-1930: Some Highlights." In The Milky Way Galaxy by H. van Woerden, R. J. Allen and B. Barton, pp. 43-58. Dordrehct: D. Reidel 1985.
"Heavenly Motions." In The Times Higher Educational Supplement, p. 19. November 26, 1984.
Review of Eddington by S. Chandrasekhar. Physics Today, 38 (1985):88-89.,
Review of Frame of the Universe by F. Durham and R. D. Purrington. Isis, 715 (1984):593:.
Review of Glimpsing an Invisible Universe by Richard Hirsh. Journal for the History of Astronomy, 16 (1985):142-143.

<<<Page: 114>>>

Smith, R. W. with Tatarewicz, J. N. “Replacing a Technology: The Large Space Telescope and CCD's." In Proceedings of the IEEE 73 C1985) 31 221= 1.235%.
Office of Aerospace Education and Publications
National Air and Space Museum Publications Catalogue. Describes the publications produced by the museum, plus videodiscs and educational filmstrips.
National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984. Contributions by NASM staff and visiting scholars. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984,
Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services
Cipalla, R. "The Video-Disk Advantage." History News 40(8) (1985).
Women in Aviation and Space. A brochure describing the contributions of women in the fields of air and space.
National Air and Space Museum Events. Published monthly, this calendar ~highlights lectures, films and exhibition openings and includes feature articles each month relating to air and space.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
Andre, C. G. "Orbital Multispectral Thermal Infrared Data: Geological Applications.” In National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 149-59. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984,
. “Detection of Regional Structural Features in Sedimentary Basins Using Thermal Infrared Thematic Mapper Data." In International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, Fourth Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geology, p. 8l. Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1984,
Andre, C. G. and Blodget, H. W. “Thermal IR Satellite Data for the Study of Tectonic Features.” Geophysical Research Letters ll (1984) :983-86.
Andre, C. G., Blodget, H. W., and Minor, T. B. . "Surface Composition Mapping with Thermal IR Data From the Nimbus-5 and NOAA-7 Satellites.” In Geological Society of America GSA Abstracts with Programs 16 (1984):430.
Andre, C. G., Blodget, H. W., and Marcell, R. F. . "Volcanism and Faulting Related to the Red Sea/Gulf of Aden Tectonism: The Thermal Infrared Satellite View." EOS 66 (1985):377.
. . "Morphology and Changes in Surface Hydrology in the Upper Inland Niger Delta, Mali.” In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 16 (1984):549.
. . “Changes in Surface Hydrology in the Upper Inland Niger Delta of Mali as a Function of Drought.” EOS 66 (1985) :262.
Maxwell, T. A., and Watters, T. R. "“Photogeology of Structural Landforms in the Tharsis Region of Mars." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 135-47. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.
Maxwell, T. A., Frey, H., and Semeniuk, A. . "Geomorphology and Evolution of the Ancient Cratered Terrain Smooth Plains Boundary of Mars." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 16 (1984) :586.
Maxwell, T. A. and Corrigan, J. D. . "Fold Model for Ridges of the Tharsis Region of Mars.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVI, pp. 897-98. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1985.
Department of Aeronautics
Brooks-Pazmany, K. L. and Oakes, C. M., comp. Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum (3rd ed. rev.) Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985,
Crouch, T. D. “Flight and the Founding Fathers.” National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp.27-46. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.
“Taking to the Air." Science 84 5(11)(1984).
. "“Wingding at Oshkosh." National Geographic Traveler 2(2)(1985).
“A Practical Flying Machine: The 1905 Wright Flyer." Timelines (Summer )(1985).
Davies, R. E. G. “Marcel Bouilloux-Lafont: Airline Pioneer Extraordinaire.” National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 47-62. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.
Grosz, P. M. “Some Reflections on Austro-Hungarian Aviation in World War I." National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1984, pp. 63-77. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.
Mikesh, R. C. The Great Book of World War II Airplanes. Tokyo:
Bonanza Books, 1984. “Veteran From Vietnam." Air Combat (Winter)(1984).
Mikesh, R. C. and Osamu, T. Moonlight Interceptor: Japan's “Irving” Night Fighter. Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum Series, no. 8. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

<<<Page: 115>>>

Oakes, C. M. United States Women in Aviation 1930-1939, Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space, no. 6. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
Schneide, K. S. and Grosz, P. M. “Cockburn-Lange Hoax Exposed.” World War I Aeroplanes. Part I, 102(December)(1984). Part II, 103(February) (1985).
van der Linden, F. R. and Winter, F. “Out of the Past." Aerospace America. (Monthly Column).
Department of Space Science and Exploration
Collins, M. J. The History of Geophysics and Meteorology: An Annotated Bibliography. New York: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1985. :
DeVorkin, D. H. “Stars: Augmenting a National Collection in Space Astronomy." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1984, pp. 169-172. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
. "Electronics in Astronomy: Early Applications of the Photoelectric Cell and Photomultiplier for Studies of Point Source Celestial Phenomena. In Proceedings of the IEEE vol. 73, no. 7 (July, 1985):21205,.
DeVorkin, D. H. and Collins, M. J. Space Astronomy Oral History Project Catalog. Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1985.

<<<Page: 116>>>

Department of Anthropology
Adovasio, J. M., and Andrews, R. L. Basketry and Miscellaneous Perishable Artifacts from Walpi Pueblo, Arizona. Introduction to the Walpi Archaeological Project by E. Charles Adams. Edited by R. C. Carlisle. Ethnology Monographs, no. 7. Pittsburgh.
Adovasto>7,0.,M.3) Carlisle, R. C.; Cushman;>K. As: Donahuey J2% Guilday, J. E.; Johnson, W. C.; Lord, L.: Parmalee, P. W.:; Stuckenrath, R.; and Wiegmann, P. "Paleoenvironmental Reconstruction at Meadowcroft Rockshelter, Washington County, Pennsylvania." In Environments and Extinctions: Man _ in the Late Glacial North America (1985). Edited by J. I. Mead and D. J. Meltzer. Peopling of the America Series, Centerfor the Study of Barly Man: “Orono: University of Maine.
Adovias0 wa. M.¢ Boldurtan. Az T..;-and Carlisle; R. Cz "Archaeological Research Activities of the University of
Pittsburgh in 1984." Current Research in the Pleistocene 2 (L9BS): 3-5.
Albanese, John P. "Geology of the Dead Indian Creek Site." In The Dead Indian Creek Site: An Archaic Occupation in the Absaroka Mountains of Northwestern Wyoming. Edited by
George C. Frison and Danny N. Walker. Wyoming Archaeologist 27 (1984): 101-110.
"Geological Investigation at 48 FR 1398." In Archaeological Salvage at 48 FR 1398: The Castle Gardens Access Road Site, Fremont County, Wyoming. Edited by Danny N. Walker and Lawrence C. Todd. Occasional Papers on Wyoming Archaeology, no. 2 (1984): 65-74. Laramie: Office of the Wyoming State Archaeologist.
Andrews, R. L.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Carlisle, R. C. "Perishables from Dirty Shame Rockshelter, Malheur County, Oregon." University of Oregon Anthropological Papers,
Noe 3.461985) Eugene, Oregon.
Angel, J. Lawrence. "Varlation in Estimating Age at Death of Skeletons." Collegium Anthropologicum 8 (2)(1984): 163-167.
"The Forensic Pathologist's Examination." The Pathologist 39 (5)(1985).
Arnoldi, Mary Jo. "The Artistic Heritage of Somalia." African Arts 27 (4)(August 19984): 24-33 (notes, 93).
To be reprinted as the Introductory Essay in Somalia in
Word and Image. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Press.
Bentley, Gillian R. "Hunter-Gatherer Energetics and Fertility: A Reassessment of the !Kung San." Human Ecology 13 (1985 79-109.

<<<Page: 117>>>

Berinstein, Ava. "Evidence for Multiattachment in K'ekchi Mayan." Outstanding Dissertations in Linguistics (1985). New York: Garland Publishing.
Brooks, Alison S. "The Tangled Wing: Biology and Human Destiny." Anthro-Notes 6 (3)(1984): 4-6.
"San Land-use Strategies, Past and Present: Implications for Southern African Prehistory." In Frontiers: Southern African Archaeology Today (1984): 40-52. Edited by M. Hall, et al. Cambridge Monographs in African Archaeology 10, BAR International Series 207. Oxford.
"South African Director Meets Noble Savage." Anthro-Notes 7 (1)(1985): 5-6.
Brooks, Alison S.; Gelburd, Diane E.; and Yellen, John E. "Food Production and Culture Change Among the !Kung San: Implications for Prehistoric Research." In From Hunters to Farmers: The Causes and Consequences of Food Production in Africa (1984): 293-310. Edited by J. Desmond Clark and Steven A. Brandt. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Burch, Ernest S., Jr., ed. "The Central Yupik Eskimos." Etudes/Inuit/Studies 8 (1984). Supplemental Issue.
"The Central Yupik Eskimos: An Introduction." Etudes/Inuit/Studies 8 (1984): 3-19. Supplemental Issue.
"Kotzebue Sound Eskimo." In Handbook of North American Indians. Edited by William C. Sturtevant. Arctic 5 (1984): 303-319. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"The Land Claims Era in Alaska." In Handbook of North American Indians. Edited by William C. Sturtevant. Arctic 5 (1984): 657-661. Edited by David Damas. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. Cheek, Annetta L.; Cheek, Keel; and Cheek, Bennie C. "Value Conflicts in Osteo-Archaeology." In Ethics and Values in
Archaeology (1984): 194-207. Edited by Ernestine L. Green. New York: The Free Press.
Clark, Donald W., and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy." In "Pacific Eskimo: Historical Ethnography." Handbook of North American Indians . Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5 (1984): 195-196. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Cordova, Fred. "Filipinos: Forgotten Asian Americans, a Pictorial Essay/1763-circa-1963" (1983). Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Co.

<<<Page: 118>>>

Crocker, William H.
Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2:
J. Wilbert and K. 58. Los Angeles:
"The Legend Literature of the J. Wilbert and K. 58. Los Angeles:
"Awkéé." In 97-106.
Edited by J. Wilbert and K. American Studies 58.
"The Legend of the Sun and the Moon." 17-32. Edited by Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies UCLA Latin American Center Publications. of the Great Cotton Boll." In Folk Gé Indians 2: 50-52. Edited by Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies UCLA Latin American Center Publications. Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2: Simoneau. UCLA Latin UCLA Latin American
Los Angeles:
Center Publications.
"The Myth of Kruwapu." In Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2: 195-203. Edited by J. Wilbert and K. Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies 58. Los Angeles: UCLA Latin American Center Publications.
"The Story of a Woman Shaman During a Cakamekra War." In Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2: 354-356. Edited
by J. Wilbert and K. Simoneau. UCLA Latin American Studies
58. Los Angeles: UCLA Latin American Center Publications. . "Pep." In Folk Literature of the Gé Indians 2:
356-358. Edited by J. Wilbert and K. Simoneau. UCLA Latin
American Studies 58. Center Publications. East, T.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Carlisle, R. C. Phase III Cultural Resource Management Excavations at Site 36CO9, Columbia County, Pennsylvania: An Executive Summary (April 11, 1985). A report prepared by the Cultural Resource Management Program for a Meeting with the Secretary of
Los Angeles: UCLA Latin American
Transportation, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. East ;clss) Jorstad, T. F£:5 Adovasio, J: Ms: Donahue, J.
Carlisle, Rk. C.s. FLtzqibbons; “P.-T. > and Baker, 1:
Archaeological Investigations on Cinnamon Creek Ridge,
McKenzie County, North Dakota. A report prepared under the supervision of J. M. Adovasio, Ph.D., Principal
Investigator. Submitted to the USDA Forest Service, Custer National Forest under the terms of a Letter of Agreement of October 6, 1980. Final Report, April 5, 1985.
El-Najjar, M.; Aufderheide, A.; and Ortner, D. J. "Preserved Human Remains from the Southern Region of the North American Continent: A Report of Autopsy Findings." Pathology 16 (1985): 273-276.
Fitzhugh, William W. "“Paleo-Eskimo Cultures of Greenland." In Handbook of North American Indians. Arctic 5 (1984):
Human
528-539. Edited by David Damas.
"Archeological Finds in Labrador." The Labradorian ll (1984): 43-509.
"Pioneers of Labrador." Thems Days 10 (2)(1984):
4-28.

<<<Page: 119>>>

Frison, George C. "Avocational Archaeology: Its Past, Present, and Future." In Ethics and Values in Archaeology (1984): 184-193. Edited by Ernestene L. Green.
New York: The Free Press.
"The Carter/Kerr-McGee Paleoindian Site: Cultural Resource Management and Archaeological Research." American Antiquity 49 (2)(1984): 288-314.
"The Dead Indian Creek Site: An Archaic Occupation in the Absaroka Mountains of Northwestern Wyoming." Edited by George C. Frison and Danny N. Walker." Wyoming Archaeologist 27 (1-2)(1984): 11-122.
Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "The Obviative in Fox Narrative Discourse." In Papers of the Fifteenth Algonquian
Conference (1984): 273-286. Edited by William Cowan. Ottawa: Carleton University.
"Synonymy." In "Introduction." Handbook of North American Indians 5 (1984): 5-7. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Technical Alphabet." Handbook of North American Indians 5 (1984): x-xi. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Handbook of North American Indians. Edited by W. Sturtevant. Arctic 5 (1984). Linguistic edition.
Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Gordon, Kathleen D. "The Assessment of Jaw Movement Direction from Dental Microwear." American Journal of Physical
Anthropology 63 (1)(1984): 77-84. "Taphonomy of Dental Microwear, II."
American Journal of Physical Anthropology 63 (2)(1984): 164-165. (Abstract. )
"Difficulties in Using Silicone Elastomeres for
Surface Replication." Journal of Microscopy 134 (2) (1984); 183-188.
"Hominoid Dental Microwear: Complications in the Use of Microwear Analysis to Detect Diet." Journal of Dental
Research 63 (8)(1984): 1043-1046. "Using Dental Microwear to Detect Orientation of
Occlusal Contacts." Archives of Oral Biology 29 (10) (1984): 783-787. Houchins, Chang-su. "The Magic of the Korean Tiger." Korean
Culture 5 (4)(December 1984): 28-37. Los Angeles. "Miguk eso palgyondoen Kojong ch'osang yuhwa ."
Kyegan Misul (Arts Quarterly)34 (Seoul)(Summer 1985): 104-9. :

<<<Page: 120>>>

Hughes, Charles C., and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy." In "Siberian Eskimo" and "Saint Lawrence Island Eskimo." Handbook of North American Indians. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5 (1984): 259-60, 276-77. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Kaeppler, Adrienne L. "Foreword." In Siapo: Samoan Bark Cloth by Mary Pritchard (1984): vi-vii. Pago Pago: Arts Council of American Samoa.
e . “Hawaiian Art and Society: Traditions and Transformations." In Transformations of Polynesian
Culture. Edited by Antony Hooper and Judith Huntsman. Memoir 45 (1985): 105-131. Auckland, New Zealand: The Polynesian Society.
"Traditional Transmission and the Transmission of Tradition in Polynesian Dance." In Becoming Human Through Music: The Wesleyan Symposium on the Perspectives of
Social Anthropology in the Teaching and Learning of Music (1985): 29-42. Reston: Music Educators National
Conference.
Karp, Ivan. "Deconstructing Culture-Bound Syndromes." Social Science and Medicine 21 (2)(1985): 221-228.
Keel, Bennie C., and Egloff, Brian J. "The Cane Creek Site, Mitchell County, North Carolina." Southern Indian Studies 33 (1984): 3-44.
Kleivan, Inge, and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy." In "West Greenland Before 1950." Handbook of North American
Indians. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5 (1984): 620. Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Knez, Eugene, Scholars in Korean Studies. "Eugene Knez, Korea and Korean Studies." Korean and Korean-American Studies Bulletin 1 (2/3)(1985): 1O=—12. New Haven: HRAF.
Lantis, Margaret, and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy."
In "Nunivak Eskimo." Handbook of North American Indians. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5. (1984) 2 (2222). Edited by David Damas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Laughlin, Robert M. "La Rama Dorada: Magia y Botanica en Zinacantan." In Investigaciones Receintes en el Area Maya,
XVII Mesa Redonda, Sociedad Mexicana-de Antropologia 1 (1984): 349-355.
Ledergerber, Paulina. "Tesis en Antropologia Ecuatoriana Aprobadas por Universidades del Canada y los Estados
Unidos." Miscela-Antropologica Ecuatoriana, Ano 3 C3 "C98 4 )*.

<<<Page: 121>>>

Meggers, Betty J. "The Indigenous Peoples of Amazonia, Their Cultures, Land Use Patterns and Effects on the Landscape
and Biota." In The Amazon, Limnology and Landscape Ecology
of a Mighty Tropical River and Its Basin (1984): 627-648. Edited by Harald Sioli. Dordrecht, Boston, and Lancaster:
Dr. W. Junk Publishers.
"Advances in Brazilian Archaeology, 1935-1985." American Antiquity 50 (1985): 364-373.
"Archaeology: South America." Handbook of Latin American Studies 45 (1985): 63-93. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Merrill, William. "Rites: L'univers Religieux des Indiens Tarahumaras." In GEO (Paris) (May 1983): 132-144. Michael, Franz. "Rule by Incarnation: Tibetan Buddhism and
Its Role in Society and State" (1982). In collaboration with Eugene Knez, assisted by Lobsang Lhalungpa and Tashi Densapa. Boulder: Westview Press.
Milanich, Jerald T.; Chapman, J.; Cordell, A. S.; Hale, S.;
and Marrinan, R. "Towards an Understanding of the Prehistoric Development of Calusa Society in Southwest Florida--Excavations on Useppa Island, Lee County." In
Perspectives on Gulf Coast Prehistory, 258-314. Edited by
Dave D. Davis. Ripley P. Bullen Monographs in Anthropology and History 5 (1984). Gainesville: University Presses of
Florida.
Milanich, Jerald T.; Cordell, A. S.; Sigler-Lavelle, B. J.; Kohler, T. A.:; and Knight, V. J. McKeithen Weeden Island--The Culture of Northern Florida, A.D. 200-900 (1984). New York: Academic Press.
Ortner, Donald J. "Bone Lesions in a Probable Case of Scurvy from Matlatavik, Alaska." MASCA 3 (1984): 79-81.
"Possible Mycotic Infection in Three Archeological Cases from Alaska." Papers on Paleopathology. Presented at the 12th Annual Meeting of the Paleopathology Association (1985): 9-10. (Abstract. ) Owsley, D. W.; Ortner, D. J.; and Mires, A. M. "Case Report
No. 4." Paleopathology Newsletter 49 (1985):. 7-8. Parks, Douglas R., and Wedel, Waldo R. "Pawnee Geography:
Historical and Sacred." In Great Plains Quarterly 5 (1985): 143-176.
Potts, Richard. "Home Bases and Early Hominids." American Scientist 72 (1985): 338-347.
"Hominid hunters? Problems of Identifying the Earliest Hunter-gatherers." In Hominid Evolution and Community Ecology (1985): 129-166. Edited by R. Foley. London: Academic Press. 2 "L'homme, ce charognard." La Recherche 16 (1985):
685-686. :

<<<Page: 122>>>

Powell, Mary L. "The Analysis of Dental Wear and Caries for Dietary Reconstruction." In The Analysis of Prehistoric Diets (1985): 307-338. Edited by R. I. Gilbert and J. H. Mielke. San Diego: Academic Press.
"Differential Diagnosis of Treponematosis in the Southeastern Mississippian Population at Moundville, Alabama." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 66 (1985): 215-216.
"Health, Disease and Social Organization in the Mississippi Community at Moundville" (1985). Ann Arbor: University Microfilms.
Rose, Carolyn L. "Ethnographic Conservation in the United States." First Newsletter of the International Council of Museums Working Group on Ethnographic Conservation (Calgary) (1985): 13-14.
"Leather Conservation in the Anthropology Conservation Laboratory at the National Museum of Natural History." Leather Conservation Refresher Course Proceedings (1985): 83-84. Washington, D.C.: American Institute for Conservation.
Rose, C.; Raphael, B.; Lechtman, H.; Singley, K.; and Allardt, A. "Ethnographic and Archaeological Conservation in the United States" (1984): 20 pages.
Washington, D.C.: National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property.
Rose, C.; Weisser, T.; Ford, R.; Lechtman, H.; and Sterud, E. "Suggested Curriculum for Training in Ethnographic and Archaeological Conservation." National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property. Washington, D.C. (1984): 20 pages. In Student Training Conference Papers. Los Angeles: Getty Institute for Conservation.
Schmidt, Dwight... “The Old Réd Bricks: Insight. for: the Living." Anthro-Notes 7 (2)(Spring 1985).
Smith, Bruce D. Introduction to the 1985 Edition. Report on
the Mound Explorations of the Bureau of Ethnology, by Cyrus Thomas (originally published in 1894). Seventh
reprint in the Classics of Smithsonian Anthropology series (1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"The Role of Chenopodium as a Domesticate in Pre-maize Garden Systems of the Eastern United States." Southeastern Archaeology 4 (1985).
Smith, B. D., and Funk, V. "A Newly Described Subfossil Cultivar of Chenopodium (Chenopodiaceae)." Phytologia GLESI8 5).
Stanford, Dennis J. "The Jones-Miller Site: A Study of Hell Gap Bison Procurement and Processing." National Geographic Society Research Reports 16 (1985): 615-635.
Stanford, Dennis J., and Graham, R. "A Report on Karst Studies in the Peoples! Republic of China." The National
Speleological Society Bulletin 45 (1985): 79-81.

<<<Page: 123>>>

Stanford, Dennis J., and Haynes, G. "On the Possible Utilization of Camelops by Early Man in North America." In Taphonomic Analysis and Interpretation in North American Pleistocene Archeology. Edited by E. James Dixon. Quaternary Research 22 (1985): 216-230.
Stanford, Dennis J., and Patton, R. "R-6, A Preliminary Report of a Cody Complex Site in North Central New
Mexico." Papers of the Philmont Conference on the Archeology of Northeastern New Mexico Proceedings 6
(1)(1985): 187-199. Edited by Carol Condie. Sturtevant, William C., ed. Arctic. Handbook of North American Indians 5 (1984). Edited by David Damas.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. "Foreword." In Final Report of the United States De
Soto Expedition Commission, by John R. Swanton (1985): v-ix. Classics of Smithsonian Anthropology. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Views of a New World America from Drake's Quarterdeck: Sixteenth-century Drawings from
Sir Francis Drake's Voyages...." American Heritage 36 (5),G19'8'5)).: 82-92. Sturtevant, William C., and Meltzer, David J. "The Holly Oak Pendant." Science 227 (4684)(Jan. 18, 1985): 242, 244. Taylor, Paul M. "Tobelorese Deixis." Anthropological
Linguistics 6 (Spring 1984): 77 102-122: "Covert Categories Reconsidered: Identifying Unlabeled Classes in Tobelo Folk Biological
Classification." Journal of Ethnobiology 4 (2)(1985): 105-122.
"The Indonesian Collections of William Louis Abbott (1860-1936): Invitation to a Research Resource at the
Smithsonian Institution." Council for Museum Anthropology Newsletter 9 (2)(1985): 5-14.
Trinkaus, Erik, and Stewart, T. D. "The Shanidar 3 Neanderthal; a Fragmentary Skeleton from Fhanidar Cave, Northern Iraq." Sumer, a Journal of Archaeology and History in the Arab World 36 (1980): 9-35. Baghdad, Iraq.
Trousdale, William. "Buddhistiche Kloster am Hilmend-Fluss." Aus den Osten des Alexanderreichs (Festschrift fiir Klaus Fischer). K6ln (1984): 143-153.
Trousdale, William, ed. The Gordon Creeds in Afghanistan, 1839 and 1878-79 (1984): 189. London.

<<<Page: 124>>>

Ubelaker, Douglas H. "Prehistoric Human Biology of Ecuador: Possible Temporal Trends and Cultural Correlations." In Paleopathology at the Origins of Agriculture, chapter 19 (1984): 491-513. Edited by Mark N. Cohen and George J. Armelagos. New York: Academic Press.
"Positive Identification from the Radiographic Comparison of Frontal Sinus Patterns." In Human Identification (1984): 399-411. Edited by T. Rathbun and J. Buikstra. Springfield: Charles C. Thomas.
Human Skeletal Remains, Excavation, Analysis, Interpretation. Revised Edition (1984): 119 pages. Washington: Taraxacum.
. “A Discussion of Mid-Atlantic Ossuaries." In The Accokeek Creek Complex and the Emerging Maryland Colony (1984). Accokeek, Maryland: Alice Ferguson Foundation.
"Huesos Humanos y Arqueologia." Miscelania Antropologica Ecuatoriana. Boletin de los Museos del Banco Central del Ecuador 3 (1984): 117-142.
Ubelaker, Douglas H.; Bass, William M.; Jantz, Richard L.; and Fred H. Smith. A Review of Human Origins. Revised fifth edition (1984): 92 pages: Knoxville.
Van Stone, J. W., and Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Synonymy." In "Mainland Southwest Alaska Eskimo." Handbook of North American Indians. Edited by W. Sturtevant. In Arctic 5 (1984): 241-242.. Edited by David Damas.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. Von Endt, D. W., and Ortner, D. J. “Experimental Effects of Bone Size and Temperature on Bone Diagenesis." Journal of
Archaeological Science 11 (1984): 247-253.
Webb, S. D.; Milanich, J. P=; Alexon, R.; -and Dunbar, J: "BR Bison Antiquus Kill Site, Wacissa River, Jefferson County, Florida." American Antiquity 49 (1984): 384-392.
Department of Botany
Banerjee, S$; Jakupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "A Rearranged Eudesmane and Further Verbesindiol Derivatives from Verbesina eqgersii." Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985): 1106-1108.
Blair, S. M., and Norris, J. N. "Deep-Water Caribbean Species of Halimeda (Udoteaceae): Observations of Depth Distributions and Morphology." Journal of Phycology 21 (Suppl.) (1985): 5.
Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Three Kolavane Derivatives and 2 Beta-Angeloyloxy Himachanolide from Acritopappus longifolius." Rev. Latinoamer. Quim. 15 (1)(1984): 1618.

<<<Page: 125>>>

Bohlmann, F.; Banerjee, $.; Jakupovic, J
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Zdero, C
Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Hartono, L
Bohlmann, F.; Schmeda-Hirschmann, G.; Jakupovic, J
Bohlmann, F.; Ang, W.; King, R. M.: and Robinson, H.
"A Further Steiractinolide from Wedelia grandiflora." Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984): 2069-2070.
-; Grenz, M:; Misra, L. N.; Schmeda-Hirschmann, Gi; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. "Clerodane and Labdane Diterpenoids from Baccharis Species." Phytochemistry 24 (3)(1985): 511-515. Bohlmann, F.; Banerjee, S.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Bisabolene Derivatives and Acetylenic Compounds from Peruvian Coreopsis Species." Phytochemistry
24 (6)(1985): 1295-1297.
Bohlmann, F.; Banerjee, S.; Wolfrum, C.; Jakupovic, J.;
King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Sesquiterpene Lactones, Geranylnerol and Tremetone Derivatives from Ageratina Species ."s 9Phytochenmistry 24 (6)%". 1319-2321"
Bohimann7 7F.? >Castrol Vit: Zdero, “C.s"-King?"R:*M?> “and
Robinson, H. "New Furanoeremphilanes from Senecio Species." Rev. Latinoamer. Quim. 14 (3)(1984): 101-103.
Bohlmann, F.; Grenz, M.; Jakupovic, J.:; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. "New Labdane Derivatives and Other Constituents from Fleischmannia viscidioes." Rev. Latinoamer. Quim. 15 (1)(1984): 1-3.
oo. Kang, OR Mes oand Robinson, H. "Onognaphalin, a Further 5-Methyl Coumarin from Onoseris gnaphalioides." Phytochemistry 24 (6)(1985): 1392-1393.
.: King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "A Further Steiractinolide Derivative from
Spilanthes leiocarpa." Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985): 1100-1101.
Bohlmann; F..:-Jakupovic, J.; Schuster; ‘Avy King, R. M>; “and
Robinson, H. "Germacranolide, Hydroxyverbenon Und Ent-Kaur-15(16)-en-17, 19-Disaure aus Helianthus occidentalis var. dowellianus." Planta Medica 1984 (2)(1984): 202?
"Homogeranyl Nerol Derivatives and a Melampolide from
Smallanthus glabratus." Phytochemistry 24 (6)(1985):
1309-1313.
Bohlmann, F.; Misra, L. N.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and
King, R. M. "New Sesquiterpene Lactone Type from Dugaldia hoopesi." Journal of Natural Products 47 (4)(1984): 658-662.
Bohimann, F.7 “Mista,L. “Ni; dakupovicy J.7 King, R-°M.; and
Robinson, H. "Guaianolide A-Arabinopyranosides from Helenium amarum." Phytochemistry 24 (6)(1985): PS ES = 138. King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Germacranolides from
Gochnatia vernonioides." Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984): 1989-1993.

<<<Page: 126>>>

Bohimann, Fos oTrinks, «C. 3 Jakupovic,.Js). King sak. OMe s cand
Robinson, H. "Isolation of a Guaianolide from Symphyopappus compressus." Planta Medica 1984 (3)(1984): 276-277.
. "A Further Guaianolide from Kaunia arbuscularis." Planta Medica 1984 (3)(1984): 284.
Bohlmann, F.; Wallmeyer, M.; Jakupovic, J.; Gerke, T.;
King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Cuauthemone Sesquiterpenoids from Blumea alata." Phytochemistry 24 (3)(1985): 505-509. Z
Bohimann, F.s Wolfrum, C.;. Jakupovic;2d.7; .King}.-ResMes sand Robinson, H. "Further Cadinene Derivatives from Heterotheca latifolia." Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985): 1101-1103.
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Pseudoguaianolides and Other Sesquiterpene Lactones from
Gaillardia Species." Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984): 1979-1988. "Gutierrezial and Further Diterpenes from Gutierrezia sarothrae." Phytochemistry 23 (9)(1984): 2007-2012. "“Oplopane Derivatives from Arnoglossum atriplicifolium." Rev. Latinoamer. Quim. 15(1)(1984): 13.
"Phenylethylamida aus Critoniella acuminata.” Planta Medica 1984 (2)(1984): 187-188. "Polyacetylenverbindungen aus Jungia seteriana." Planta Medica 1984 (2)(1984): 190-191. "Neue Aromadendren-Derivate aus Wyethia arizonica." Planta Medica 1984 (2)(1984): 195-196. "A Further Geranylnerol Derivative from Helianthopsis Species." Phytochemistry 24 (5)(1985): LLO8—1LLULO. Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Jakupovic, J.; Misra, L. N.; Banerjee, S.; Singh, P.; Baruah, R. N.; Metwally, M. A.; Schmeda-Hirschmann, G.; Vincent, L. P. D.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H: "Eremophilane Derivatives and Other Constituents from Senecio Species." Phytochemistry 24 C6) (E9785). : 1249-1261. Burns-Balogh, P., and Funk, V. A. "Evolution of the Monandrous Orchidaceae I." Canadian Orchid Journal 2 (2), C19:38'5)) : 22-31. "Evolution of the Monandrous Orchidaceae III." Canadian Orchid Journal 2 (3)(1985): 6-14. "Evolution of the Monandrous Orchidaceae." Canadian Orchid Journal 2 (4)(1985): 3=115. Burns-Balogh, P.; Robinson, H.: and Foster, M. S. "The Capitate-Flowered Epiphytic Spiranthinae (Orchidaceae) and a New Genus from Paraguay." Brittonia 37 (2)(1985): 154-162.

<<<Page: 127>>>

Connon 2/3 45542 vCubitaiaA"E.cvand. Norris J 2°NG. | “Cyclic Changes in Biotic Surface Cover of a Fringing Reef in
Caribbean Panama." Journal of Phycology 20 (Suppl.)(1984): lee
Cowan, R. S. "Studies in Tropical American Leguminosae IX." Brittonia 37 (3)(1985): 291-304.
Cuatrecasas, J. "Studies in Neotropical Senecioneae V. Two New Species of Pentacalia from Colombia." Phytologia 57 (3) ¢1985)); 169-174.
"Brunelliaceae, Supplement." Flora Neotropica, Monograph no. 2 (Suppl.)(1985): 28-103.
"Miscellanea Sobre Flora Neotropica IV." Fontqueria 8 (1985): 9-18.
Faden, R. B. "New Taxa of Aneilema R. Br. (Commelinaceae) from Southern and Tropical East Africa." Bothalia 15 (1-2) (1984): 89-100.
"Commelinaceae." In The Families of the
Monocotyledons, 381-387 by R. M. T. Dahlgren, H. T. Clifford, and P. F. Yeo. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1985.
"Mayacaceae." In The Families of the Monocotyledons GLOSS) iss 7 BS 7—SES by Rw) Mio; ET." Dahigren;,* F.> To, Clvt ford.,...and P. F. Yeo. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
"Overlooked Combinations in the Commelinaceae
Published by Robert Sweet and J. C. Loudon." Taxon 34 (2)(1985): 295-296. ; Fosberg,, E.R. "Henderson Island Saved." Environmental
Conservation 11 (1984): 183-184.
"Phytogeography Comparison of Polynesia and Micronesia." In Biogeography of the Tropical Pacific (1984): 33-44. Edited by F. J. Radovsky, P. H. Raven, and S. H. Sohmer. Honolulu: Association of Systematics Collections.
"Range Extension of Diaporthiopsis metrosideri to Bird Park, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park." Newsletter Hawaiian Botanical Society 24 (1985): 18.
"Cordyline fruticosa (L.) Chevalier (Agavaceae)." Baileya 22 (4)(1985): 180-181.
"Present State of Knowledge of the Flora and
Vegetation of Emergent Reef Surfaces." Proceedings of the 5th International Coral Reef Congress 2 (1985): 138. "Classification of Emergent Reef Surfaces." Atoll
Research Bulletin 292 (1985): 29-35.
"Botanical Visits to Krakatau in 1958 and 1963." Atoll Research Bulletin 292 (1985): 39-47.
"Origin and Early History of the Flora Neotropica
Project." Flora Neotropica, Monograph no. 2 (Suppl) (1985): 25-27.
Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M. -H. "History of the Generic Name Pseuderanthum Radlkofer (Acanthaceae)." Baileya
22(4)(1985): 178-179.

<<<Page: 128>>>

Fosberg, F. R., and Terrell, E. E. "A Recently Established Exotic in West Florida and Alabama (Hedyotis salzmannii or
Oldenlandia salzmannii Rubiaceae)." Castanea 50 (1985): 49-51. Funk, V. A. "Cladistics and Generic Concepts in the
Compositae." Taxon 34 (1985): 72-80. "Preface and Curriculum Vitae of Jose Cuatrecasas." Flora Neotropica 2 (Suppl.)(1985): 1-12.
Gerwick, W. H.; Fenical, W.; and Norris, J. N. "Chemical Variation in the Tropical Brown Seaweed Stypopodium zonale (Dictyotaceae)." Phytochemistry 24 (6)(1985): 1279-1283.
Graham, A.; Nowicke, J. W.; Skvarla, J. J.; Graham, S.;
Patel, V.; and Lee, S. "Palynology and Systematics of the Lythraceae. I. Introduction and Genera Adenaria Through Ginoria." American Journal of Botany 72 (1985): 768-788.
Hale, Mason E., Jr. "The Lichen Line and High Water Levels in a Freshwater Stream in Florida." The Bryologist 87 (3)(1984): 261-265. if
"An Historical Review of the Genus Concept in Lichenology." Beiheft 79 zur Nova Hedwigia, Festschrift J. Poelt (1984): 11-23.
"New Species in the Lichen Genus Xanthoparmelia
(Vain.) Hale (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Mycotaxon 22 (2) (1985): 281-284. Hale, Mason E., Jr., and Lawrey, J. A. "Annual Rate of Lead
Accumulation in the Lichen Pseudoparmelia baltimorensis." The Bryologist 88 (1) (1985): 5-7.
Hale, Mason E., Jr., and Ocampo-Friedmann, R. "Ascospore Cultures of Lichen Phycobionts From the Antarctic Desert." Antarctic Journal 19 (5)(1984): 170.
Hay, M. E., and Norris, J. N. "Seasonal Reproduction and Abundance of Six Sympatric Species of Gracilaria Grev. (Gracilariaceae; Rhodophyta) on a Caribbean Subtidal Sand
Plaine" “Hydrobiologia’ 1267117 (1984): 63-72. Jensen,:P. R.; Gibson; R. A.3;. Littler, M. M.; and Littler, D. S. » "Photosynthesis and Calcification: in four
Deep-Water Halimeda Species (Chlorophyceae, Caulerpales)." Deep-Sea Research 32 (4)(1985): 451-464.
Kidarce Jip A. s Norris.’ J.» Neo Hay, Me Basovand Cubaity,) 3 -E.. "Spatial Patterns and Seasonal Abundances of Major Reeflat Assemblages on a Caribbean Fringing Reef (Galeta Point,
Panama)." Journal of Phycology 21 (Suppl.)(1985): 52 King, R. M., and Robinson, H. "Studies in the Eupatorieae
(Asteraceae). CCXVIII. A Second Species of Iltisia." Phytologia 56 (5)(1984): 249-251. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXIX.
A New Species of Cronquistianthus." Phytologia 56 (5) /Gi9'8'4,):: 252—255..
"Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXX.
A New Species of Alomiella from Brazil." Phytologia 56 C5)°¢2 984) = 256-2581.

<<<Page: 129>>>

Lamlein, Jane. "Announcing: The Center For Plant
Conservation." Endangered Species Technical Bulletin Reprant 2) (Qs )iGLS84i)ts iis"
| "Indian Forest Reserve in Panama." Threatened Plants Newsletter 13 (1984): 6. "Latin American Conservation Network." Threatened
Plants Newsletter 13 (1984): 6-7. ; "“WWF-UF Plants Programme." Threatened Plants Newsletter 13 (1984): 7.
Lellinger, David B. "Nomenclatural and Taxonomic Notes on the Pteridophytes of Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia, II." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1985): 366-390.
"The Distribution of Panama's Pteridophytes. In ~ Botany and Natural History of Panama (1985): 43-47. Edited by W. G. D'Arcy and M. D. Correa. St. Louis: Missouri Botanical Garden.
Littler, M. M., and Littler, D. S: "Models of Tropical Reef Biogenesis: The Contribution of Algae." In Progress in Phycological Research 3 (1984): 323-364. Edited by F. E. Round and D. J. Chapman. Bristol: Biopress.
LittlerseMs Mes Littler, Do 1S. ?'Blair; (S. M.+ and Norris ,235 UN: "Deepest Known Plant Life Discovered on an Uncharted Seamount." Science 227 (1985): 57-59.
Littler, M.eMip&Taylor,-P. Rei Littler, D-°S::°Sims, "R. H.: and Norris, J. N. "The Distribution, Abundance and Primary Productivity of Submerged Macrophytes in a Belize Barrier Reef Mangrove System." Atoll Research Bulletin 289 (1985): 1-22.
Lourteig, A., and Fosberg, F. R. "Application of the Name Calophyllum calaba L. Guttiferae (Clusiaceae)." Phytologia B7ALCZ). 61985 )is F513 =—1 5:5
Metwally, M. A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "An Acetylenic Epoxide and a Ferulate from Coreopsis longula."
Phytochemistry 24 (1)(1985): 182-183. Murray, S. N., and Littler, M. M. "Analysis of Seaweed
Communities in a Disturbed Rocky Intertidal Environment Near Whites Point, Los Angeles, California." Hydrobiologia 116/117 (1984): 374-382. Nicolson, Dan H. "Aglaonema. In The European Garden Flora 20 (1984): 94-96. Edited i S$. M. Walters, et al. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. "Notes on a New Genus Pentastemona ." Aroideana 7 (1984): 53. "AR Second Collection of Pedicellarum (Araceae)." Aroideana 7 (1984): 56-57. "Notes on Aroid Papers." Aroidenan 7 (1984): 63. 5 "Suprageneric Names Attributable to Araceae." Taxon 3 (1984): 680-690. "Postscriptum." Taxon 34 (1985): 299-300.

<<<Page: 130>>>

Nicolson, Dan H.; Bogner, J.; Mayo, S.; and Sivadasan, M. "(776) Proposal to Amend 723 Amorphophallus, add Thomsonia,
nom. rej. prop. (Araceae)." Taxon 33 (1984): 740. Nicolson, Dan H., and Jarvis, C. E. "Cissus verticillata.
a New Combination for C. sicyoides (Vitaceae)." Taxon 33 (1984): 726-727.
Nicolson, Dan H., and Suresh, C. R. "(795) Proposal to Conserve 5793 Ludwigia (Onagraceae)." Taxon 34 (1985):
537-538. Norris, J. N. "Non-Flowering Plants: Marine Algae ." In People of the Desert and
Sea: Ethnobotany of the Seri Indians (1985): 207-216, by R. S. Felger and M. B. Moser. Tucson: University of Arizona Press.
Nowicke, J. W. "A Palynological Study of the Pandaceae." Pollen and Spores 26 (1)(1984): 31-42.
Nowicke, J. W.; Skvarla, J. J.; Raven, P. H.: and
Berry, P. E. "Palynological Study of the Genus Fuchsia (Onagraceae)." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 71 (1984): 35-91.
Nowicke, J. W.; Patel, V.C.; and Skvarla, J. J. "Pollen Morphology and the Relationships of Aetoxylon, Amyxa, and Gonystylus to the Thymelaeaceae." American Journal of Botany 72 (7)(1985): 906-913.
Obermeyer, A. A., and Faden, R. B. "Commelinaceae." In Flora
of Southern Africa 4 (pt. 2)(1985): 23-60. Edited by O. A. Leistner. Cape Town: Government Printer.
Oliver, R. L.,. and Skog, L. E. "Gesneriaceae." In "Chromosome Number Reports LXXXVII." Taxon 34 (2)(1985): 346.
Read, R. W. "Aechmea strobilina, Rediscovered?" Journal of
the Bromeliad Society 35 (3)(1985): 104-105 (fig. 3). "The Evolution of a New Genus Lymania gen. nov."
~~ Journal of the Bromeliad Society 34 (5)(1984): 199-201, 2i2=-216, (figs. 2-11). "Incidental Mention: For Example..." Taxon 34 (2) (1985): 341-342. "Natural Hybridization: The Problem." Proceedings of the 1982 WorldBromeliad Conference (1984): 98-104. Read, Rk. W., and Philcox, D: "Bull, You Say?" Taxon 32 G2) CL9'8'S Fz 294. Read, R. W., and Zanoni, T. A. "Thrinax morrisii H. Wendland (Arecaceae): A Palm New for the Flora of Hispaniola."
Moscosoa 3 (1984): 151-152 (fig. 1).

<<<Page: 131>>>

Robinson, H. "Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXX. A New Species of Wulffia from Ecuador." Phytologia 56 (5)(1984): 259-261.
"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXIX. New Species of Aspilia from Brazil." Phytologia 56 (5)(1984): 262-286.
"Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). XVII. Two New Species of Munnozia." Phytologia 56 (5)(1984): 287-292.
"Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXIV. Redelimitation of the Genus Angelphytum." Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 961-969.
"Observations on Fusion and Evolutionary Variability in the Angiosperm Flower." Systematic Botany 10 Gi) €29:8.5)s: 105-109. "In Honor of the Botanical Career of Jose Cuatrecasas." Flora Neotropica 2 (Suppl.)(1985): 13-16. Robinson, H., and Cuatrecasas, J. "Observations of the Genus Gynoxys in Ecuador (Senecioneae: Asteraceae)." Phytologia 56 (5)(1984): 368-375. Robinson Hap iand ‘King «Rk. 'M. "Comments on the Generic Concepts in the Eupatorieae." Taxon 34 (1)(1985): 11-16. Robinson, H., and Shaw, J. "Considerations on the Evolution of the Moss Operculum." The Bryologist 87 (4)(1984): 293-296. Sachet, M. -H. "Vegetation et Flore Terrestre de l1'Atoll de Scilly (Fenua Ura)." Oceanistes 39 (77)(1985): 29-34. "Vegetation and Flora of Society Island." In French
_ Polynesian Coral Reefs 1 by P. A. Pirazzoli. Proceedings
of the 5th International Coral Reef Congress (1985): 25-26. Moorea, Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.
Seeley, T. D.; Nowicke, J. W.; Meselson, M.; Guillemin, J.;
and Akratanakul, P. "Yellow Rain." Scientific American 2527-269) iGH9'38'5 ) : 128-137. Sendulsky, T., and Soderstrom, T. B. "Revision of the South
American Genus Otachyrium (Poaceae: Panicoideae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 57 (1985). Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. Shaw, J., and Robinson, H. "On the Development, Evolution, and Function of Peristomes in Mosses." Journal of the
Hattori Botanical Laboratory 57 (1984): 319-335.

<<<Page: 132>>>

Skog, L. E. "Another Well-Known Name Bites the Dust." The Gloxinian 35 (2)(1985): 9-10. . “Flora of the Guianas Project." American Journal of Botany 72 (6)(1985): 969-970. ‘
Entries pertaining to Eponymy on approximately 100 pages. In Taxonomic Literature Selective Guide To Botanical Publications and Collections with Dates, Commentaries and Types. Vol. 5, 2d edition (1985). Sal-Ste by F. A. Stafleu and R. S. Cowan. Utrecht, The Netherlands: Bohn, Scheltema and Holkema.
"]11. Gesneriaceae." In The Flora of the Tamilnadu Carnatic 2 (1983): 1124-1125. Gamopetalae & Monochlamydeae. Edited by K. M. Matthew. Tiruchirapalli, India: Rapinat Herbarium, St. Joseph's College.
"AR Review of Chromosome Numbers in the Gesneriaceae." Selbyana 7 (2-4)(1984): 252-273.
"Proposal to Conserve the Spelling Rhynchoglossum
(Gesneriaceae)." Taxon 34 (2)(1985): 319-320. Smith, L. B. "AR New Genus of Velloziaceae." Phytologia 57
(2) (1985): 152. "Morren's Paintings, 4: Neoregelia chlorosticta." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 35 (3)(1985): 100. "Morren's Paintings, 5: Aechmea aureo-rosea."
Journal of the Bromeliad Society 35 (4)(1985): 148.
"Morren's Paintings, 6: Aechmea dealbata." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 35 (5)(1985): 196.
"Morren's Paintings, 3: Neoregelia Tristis." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 34 (6)(1984): 244.
Smith, L. B.; Steyermark, J. A.> and Robinson. H"Bromeliaceae in Direccion de Investigaciones Biologicas Instituto Nacional de Parques." Acta Botanica Venezuelica Way (3 261984): 8-18 (figs. 1-10).
Smith, L. B., and Steyermark, J. A. "A New Species of Connellia from Venezuela." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 35 (2)(1985): 52-53 (£igs. 2-2).
Smith, L. B., and Wasshausen, D. C. "A New Ecuador Species." The Begonian 52 (1985): 11-13.
Soderstrom, T. R., and Zuloaga, F. OQ. "New Species of Grasses in Arberella, Cryptochloa, and Raddia (Poaceae: Bambusoidea: Olyreae)." Brittonia 37 (1985): 22-35.
d "Diandrolyra tatianae (Poaceae: Olyreae), a New Herbaceous Bamboo from Brazil." Brittonia 37 (1985): 1-5.
Stafleu, F. A., and Cowan, R. S. Taxonomic Literature Selective Guide to Botanical Publications and Collections with Dates, Commentaries and Types 5 (1985): i-iii, 1-1066. 2d edition. Sal-Ste. Utrecht, The Netherlands: Bohn, Scheltema and Holkema.
Stoddart, D. R., and Fosberg, F. R. "Vegetation and Floristics of the Western Indian Ocean Coral Islands." In Biogeography and Ecology of the Seychelles Islands (1984): 221-238. Edited by D. R. Stoddart. The Hague, The Netherlands: Dr. W. Junk Publishers.

<<<Page: 133>>>

Wasshausen, Dieter C. "Kalbreveracanthus kirkbridei (Acanthaceae), a New Species from Colombia." Brittonia 37 (2) :@2:9'3 5:)) 199-202.
"New Species of Hansteinia (Acanthaceae) from Colombia and Ecuador." Brittonia 37 (2)(1985): 203-208.
"New Species of Habracanthus (Acanthaceae) from Ecuador." Brittonia 37 (3)(1985): 243-251.
Zuloaga; -FPa.O%.«7and ‘Soderstrom, Ts Ri 7 °"CPassificatiron “of the Outlying Species of New World Panicum (Poaceae: Paniceae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 59 (1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Department of Entomology
Anderson, John F.; Magnarelli, Louis A.; and
Keirans, James E. "Ixodid and Argasis Ticks in Connecticut, U.S.A.: Aponomma latum, Amblyomma dissimile, Haemaphysalis leachi group, and Ornithodoros kelleyi (Acari: Ixodidae, Argasidae)." Internatational Journal of
Acarology 10 (3)(1984): 149-151.
Baimai, V.3; Green, C. A.:\ Andre. RR. G.3’ Harrison. B.2 A. sand Peyton, E. L. "Cytogenetic Studies of Some Species Complexes of Anopheles in Thailand and Southeast Asia." Southeast Asian Journal of Tropical Medical Public Health LS: (4) (2984): 536-546.
Burns, John M. "Evolutionary Differentiation: Differentiating Gold-banded Skippers--Autochton cellus and More (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae: Pyrginae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 405 (1984): i-iii, 1-38.
Coddington, J. A. Review of The Explanation of Organic
Diversity: The Comparative Method and Adaptations for Mating. Journal of Cladistics 1 (1984): 102-107.
Davis, D. R. "Families Neopseustidae, Incurvariidae, Adelidae, Prodoxidae, Cecidosidae, Nepticulidae, Opostegidae, Tineidae, Psychidae, Arrhenophanidae." In Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera 2 (1984): 16-25. Edited by J. R. Heppner. Checklist, part 1 (Micropterigoidea to Immoidea). The Hague: Dr. W. Junk.
. Presidential Profile. G2E9:8:5;) 2 es
"RA Reexamination of Enteucha cyanochlora Meyrick and Its Subsequent Transfer to the Nepticulidae (Lepidoptera:
Nepticuloidea)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (1)(1985): 142-145.
Lepidopterists News 1

<<<Page: 134>>>

(oe)
Davis, D. R., and Miiler, S. E. "Families Gracillariidae and Lyonetiidae." In Atlas of Neotropical Lepidoptera 2 (1984): 25-27.) Edited. by J. R. Heppner=<) Checklist; part 1 (Micropterigoidea to Immoidea). The Hague: Dr. W. Junk.
Davis, D. R., and Nielsen, E. S. "The South American Neopseustid Genus Apoplania Davis: A New Species, Distribution Records and Notes on Adult Behavior (Lepidoptera: Neopseustina)." -Entomologica Scandinavica 15 (1984): 497-509.
Erwin, T. L. "Composition and Origin of the Ground-Beetle Fauna of Sri Lanka (Coleoptera: Carabidae)." In Ecology and Biogeography of Sri Lanka (1984): 371-389. Edited by C. H. Fernando. The Hague: Dr. W. Junk b. v. Publishers.
"Small Terrestrial Ground Beetles of the Amazon Basin (Coleoptera: Bembidiini: Tachyina and Anillina).” Amazoniana 8 (4)(1984): 511-518.
Erwin, T. L., and Sims, L. L. "Carabid Beetles of the West Indies (Insecta: Coleoptera): A Synopsis of the Genera and Checklists of Tribes of Caraboidea, and of the West Indian Species." Quaestiones Entomologicae 20 (1984): 351-464.
Faran, Michael E.; Burnett, Charlotte; Crockett, James J.; and Lawson, W. L. "A Computerized Mosquito Information and Collection Management System for Systematic Research and Medical Entomology (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito
Systematics 16 (4)(1984): 289-307.
Farhang Azad, A.; Traub, R.; Sofi, M.; and Wisseman, C. L "Experimental Murine Typhus Infection in the Cat Flea, Ctenocephalides felis. Journal of Medical Entomology 21 (6)(1984): 675-680 (refs).
Farhang Azad, A.; Traub, R. 3 and Baqar, S$. "Transovarial Transmission of Murine Typhus Rickettsiae in Xenopsylla cheopis Fleas." Science 227 (4686)(1985): 543-545.
Farhang Azad, A., and Traub, R. "Transmission of Murine
Typhis Rickettsiae by Xenopsylla cheopis, With Notes on Experimental Infection and Effects of Temperature."
American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 34 (3) .€19'38'5)) : 555-563.
Flint, Oliver S.. Jr. “Studies on the Genus Brachycentrus:” Proceedings of the 4th International Symposium on Trichoptera~(1984): ~143.
"The Genus Brachycentrus in North America, With a Proposed Phylogeny of the Genera of Brachycentridae
(Trichoptera)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 398 (1984): Leiv, 2-58.
Freidberg, A., and Mathis, Wayne N. "On the Feeding Habits of Rhynchopsilopa (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Entomophaga 30 CX) (219185 ).: 13-21.
Froeschner, R. C. "Synopsis of the Heteroptera or True Bugs of the Galapagos Islands." Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology 407 (1985): 1-Litgel-84..

<<<Page: 135>>>

Froeschner, R. C., and Pena G., L. E. "First South American Record for the Circum-Mediterranean Patapius spinosus (Rossi) (Heteroptera: Leptopodidae)." Revista Chilena de Entomologia 11 (1985): 2 pages.
Gaffigan, T. V., and Ward, R. A. Index to the Second Supplement to "A Catalog of the Mosquitoes of the World"
with corrections and additions. (Diptera: Culicidae). Mosquito Systematics 17 (1)(1985): 52-53. : Glorioso, Michael J., and Flint, 0. S., Jr. "A Review of the
Genus Platyneuromus (Insecta: Neuroptera: Corydalidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (1984): 601-614.
Goldman, Luther S.; Krombein, Karl V.; and Oehser, Paul H. "The Members and History of the Washington Biologists Field Club" (1984): 80 pages. Lawrence, Kansas: Allen Press.
Green, C. A.; Baimai, V.; Harrison, B. A.:;: and Andre, R. G. "Cytogenetic Evidence for a Complex of Species Within the Taxon Anopheles maculatus (Diptera: Culicidae).
Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 24 (1985): 321-328. ;
Green, C. A.: Harrison, B. A.:; Klein, T. A.: and Baimai, V. "Cladistic Analysis of Polytene Chromosome Rearrangements in AN le Mosquitoes, Subgenus Cellia, series Neocellia. Canadian Journal of Genetics and Cytology 27 (2)(1985): 123-133.
Harbach, R. E.; Dahl, C.; and White, G. B. "Culex (Culex) pipiens Linnaeus (Diptera: Culicidae): Concepts, Type Designations and Description." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (1)(1985): 1-24.
Huang, Y. M. "A New African Species of Aedes (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 17 (2)(1985): 13 pages.
Kavanaugh, D. K., and Erwin, T. L. "Trechus obtusus Erichson (Coleoptera: Carabidae), A European Ground Beetle, on the Pacific Coast of North America: Its Distribution,
Introduction and Spread." Pan-Pacific Entomology 61 €2)) (E985); 170-179.
Keirans, James E. "Amblyomma paulopunctatum Neumann (Ixodoidea: Ixodidae): Redescription of the Male and Female, With an Account of Its Known Hosts and Distribution." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (3)(1985): 489-497.
"George Henry Falkiner Nuttall and the Nuttall Tick Catalogue." U. S. Department of Agriculture Miscellaneous Publication 1438 (1985): 1785 pages.
Keirans, James E., and Clifford, Carleton M. "A Checklist of Types of Ixodoidea (Acari) in the Collection of the Rocky
Mountain Laboratories." Journal of Medical Entomology 21 3! ), 9/8i4:). 310-320.

<<<Page: 136>>>

+ 1)
Keirans, James -E.;, Clifford, Carleton M:; and Hoogstraal, Harry. "Ornithodoros (Alectorobius) yunkeri, New Species (Acari: MIxodoidea: Argasidae), from Seabirds and Nesting Sites in the Galapagos Islands. Journal of Medical Entomology h21 (3)(1984): 344-350.
Kleinvat: (AL: tharrisoncBa-Aes Baimad ~.V.2 4and Phunkitchar, V. "Hybridization Evidence Supporting Separate Species Status for Anopheles nivipes and Anopheles phillippinensis." Mosquito News 44 (4)(1985): 466-470.
Krombein, Karl V. "Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XIV: A Revision of Carinostigmus Tsuneki (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Pemphredonidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 396 (1984): i-iii, 1-37 pages.
"Two New Egg Parasites of South African Walking
Sticks and Notes on Two Previously Described Species
(Hymenoptera: Chrysidoidea: Amiseginae)." Journal of the Entomological Society of Southern Africa 47 (1984): 211-215.
"Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XV: A Monograph of the Alyssoninae, Nyssoninae and Gorytinae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Nyssonidae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 414 (1985): i-iii, 1-43.
"Oxybelus (Anoxybelus) maidlii Kohl, an Oxybelus With Unusual Features (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea:
Crabronidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (1985): 634-640.
Krombein, Karl V., and Gingras, Sandra S. "Revision of North American Liris Fabricius (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Larridae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 4104 (1984): LoL, 1-96.
Masteller, E. C., and Flint, 0. S., Jr. "Trichoptera Emergence Patterns from a Small Stream in Northwestern Pennsylvania Influenced by Sewage Effluent." Proceedings of the 4th International Symposium on Trichoptera (1984): 225-2333 '\«
Mathis, Wayne N. "A New Psilopine Genus and Species From Israel With a Recharacterization of the Tribe and Key to Other Psilopine Genera of the Middle East (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (2)(1985): 375-380.
; "Studies of Parydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), II: A Revision of the Shore Fly Genus Pelinoides Cresson." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 410 (1985): = hye 1-46.
Mathis, Wayne N., and Ghorpadé, Kumar D. "Studies of Parydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), I: A Review of the Genus Brachydeutera Loew from the Oriental, Australian, and
Oceanian Regions." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 406 (1985): PL.) £-25'.

<<<Page: 137>>>

Nielsen, E. $., and Davis., D. R. "First Southern Hemisphere Prodoxid and the Phylogeny of the Incurvarioidea (Lepidoptera).”" Systematic Entomology 10 (3)(1985):
307-322.
Nurul Huda, K. M., and Harrison, B. A. "Priority of the Name Anopheles Pseudojamesi for the Species Previously Called An. ramsayi (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics E74 G1) GES'S'S Dus 49-51.
Perkins, Philip D., and Spangler, Paul J. "Quadryops New
Genus, and Three New Species of Arboreal Dryopidae (Coleoptera) from Panama and Ecuador. Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 490-506, 47 figs.
Roberts, D. R.; Peyton, E. L.; Pinheiro, F. P.; Balderama, F.; and Vargas, R. "Associations of Arbovirus Vectors With
Gallery Forests and Domestic Environments in Southeastern Bolivia. PAHO Bulletin 18 (4)(1985): 337-350.
Roshdy, Mohamed A.; Hoogstraal, Harry; Clifford, Carleton M.; Keirans, James E.; and Corwin,: Melvin D. "Bat Ticks of the Genus Argas (Ixodoidea: Argasidae). 13. Haller's Organ Roof and Anterior Pit Setae in Carios and Chiropterargas." Journal of Parasitology 70 (3)(1984): 407-411.
Spangler, Paul J. "A New Species of the Aquatic Beetle Genus Dryopomorphus from Borneo (Coleoptera: Elmidae: Larinae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 412.417, 9 figs.
"A New Genus and Species of Riffle Beetle, Neblinagena prima, from the Venezuelan Tepui, Cerro de la Neblina (Coleoptera: Elmidae: Larinae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (3)(1985): 538-544, 15 figs.
"Obituary: Oscar Ling Cartwright. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 87 (3)(1985): 690-698, 1 fig.
"Five New Species of the Predacious Water Beetle Genus Hydrodessus from Guyana and a Key to the Species (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae)." Proceedings of the Academy of
Natural Science of Philadelphia 137 (1985): 80-89, 26 figs.
Ward, R. A. Second Supplement to "A Catalog of the Mosquitoes
of the World (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 16, .€3,).C1984,)2 °227-270..
Watts, Dy M:: Harrison, B: Ai: Pantawatana, S.2 Kleimsct. A.;
and Burke. Di. .Ss "Failure to Detect Natural Transovarial Transmission of Dengue Viruses by Aedes Aegypti and Aedes albopictus (Diptera: Culicidae)." Journal of Medical Entomology 22 (3)(1985): 261-265.
Wolfe, George W., and Spangler, Paul J. "A Synopsis of the
Laccornis difformis Species Group With a Revised Key to North per ican Species of Laccornis Des Gozis (Coleoptera:
Dytiscidae). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 61-71, 17 figs.

<<<Page: 138>>>

Department of Invertebrate Zoology
Barbteri, R.t Esteves; F.jA.3 and Reid, J2°wW.. "Contribution of Two Aquatic Macrophytes to the Nutrient Budget of Lobo Reservoir (Sao Paulo, Brazil)." Verhandlungen der Internationale Vereinigung fiir Limnologie 22 (1984): 1631-1635.
Barnard, J. L., and Drummond, M. M. "A New Paracalliopiid, Katocalliope kutyeri, Gen. et Sp. Nov. (Crustacea: Amphipoda) from Queensland." Proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria 96 (September 1984): 147-153, 4 figs.
Barnard, J. L., and Thomas, J. D. "Two Species of the Siphonoecetes Complex from the Arabian Gulf and Borneo (Crustacea: Amphipoda)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (December 1984): 864-881, 9 figs, /1. table.
Baumann, P. C., and Harshbarger, J. C. "Frequencies of Liver Neoplasia in a Feral Fish Population and Associated Carcinogens" (1985). Third International Symposium on Responses of Marine Organisms to Pollutants, April 17-18, 1985. Plymouth, England: Institute for Marine Environmental Research.
Bieler, Rudiger. '"Morphometrische Analyse der Architectonica maxima-Gruppe im Indo-Pazifik (Mollusca: Gastropoda: Architectonicidae)." Verhandlungen des naturwissenschaftlichen Vereins in Hamburg (NF)27(1984): 453-492.
"Die Gattungen der Architectonicidae (Gastropoda: 'Heterogastropoda'). Teil 2: Architectonica, Philippia, Stellaxis, Discotectonica, Solatisonax, Climacopoma,
Granosolarium." Archiv fiir Molluskenkunde 115 (4/6) (Frankfurt) (1984)(1985): 23 2=1:6.5): Bowman, Thomas E. "The Correct Identity of the Pelagic
Amphipod, Primno macropa, with a Diagnosis of Primno abyssalis (Hyperiidea: Phrosinidae). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1): 11-126.
Bowman, Thomas E.; Garner, Susan P.; Hessler, Robert R.;
Iliffe, Thomas M.; and Sanders, Howard L. "Mictacea, a New Order of Crustacea Peracarida." Journal of Crustacean Biology 5 (1): 7.4-78'.
Bowman, Thomas E., and Iliffe, Thomas M. "Mictocaris halope, a New Unusual Peracaridan Crustacean from Marine Caves on Bermuda." Journal of Crustacean Biology 5 (1): 58-73.
Bowman, Thomas E., and Wasmer, Robert A. "The Deep-sea
Amphipod Paracyphocaris praedator (Gammaridea: Lysianassidae) Associated with the Pelagic Shrimp Oplophorus novaezelandiae as an Egg-mimic." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4): 844-848.

<<<Page: 139>>>

Bowman, Thomas E.; Yager, Jill; and Iliffe, Thomas M. "Speonebalia cannoni n. gen., n. sp., from the Caicos Islands, the First Hypogean Leptostracan (Nebaliacea:
Nebaliidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2): 439-446.
Brakoniecki, T., and Roper, C. F. E. "Lolliguncula argus, a New Species of Loliginid Squid (Cephalopoda: Myopsida) from the Tropical Eastern Pacific." Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 47-53.
Cairns, Stephen D. "New Records of Ahermatypic Corals (Scleractinia) from the Hawaiian and Line Islands." Occasional Papers Bishop Museum 25 (10)(1984): 1-30.
"An Application of Phylogenetic Analysis to the Scleractinia: Family Fungiidae." Fourth International
Symposium of Fossil Cnidaria. Palaeontographica Americana 54 (1984): 49-57. "Three new species of Stylasteridae." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (3)(1985): 728-739. Chace, Fenner A., Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 3: Families Thalassocarididae and Pandalidae." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 411 (1985): i-iv, 1-143. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. ; Chornesky, E. A. Review of "A Reef System: Corals and Coral Reefs of the Galapagos Islands," by P. W. Glynn and G. M. Wellington. Science 2985 (228): 1522-1523.
Clark, J..,..and Barnard, J.) L. "Lucayrina catacumba, New Genus, New Species, a Bahamian Sea-Cave Amphipod (Crustacea: Amphipoda: Lysianassidae)." Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 98 (March 1985): Z243-254,,. ‘SA figs ;
Cooper, M. R., and Kensley, B. "Endemic South America Permian Bivalve Molluscs from the Ecca of South Africa." Journal of Paleontology 58 (6): 1360-1363.
Couch, J. A.; and Harshbarger,: J... C. "Effects of Carcinogenic Agents on Aquatic Animals: An Environmental and Experimental Overview." Journal of Environmental Science
and Health, Part C, Environmental Carcinogens, Rev. 3 (1985) : 63-105. ‘
Cressey, Roger. "A New Genus of Bomolochid Copepod from Eastern Pacific Haemulid Fishes." Bulletin of Marine Science 35 (2): 182-186.
Danielopol, D. L., and Hart, C. W., Jr. "Notes on the Center of Origin and on the Antiquity of the Sphaeromicolonae, with Description of Hobbsiella, New Genus (Ostracoda.
Entocytheridae)." Stygologia 1 (1)(1985): 54-70. Fauchald;,, “K..., "Polychaete; Distxcibution; Patterns,..Or: Can Animals With Palaeozoic Cousins Show Large-scale Geographical Patterns." Proceedings of the First International Polychaete Conference (1984): 1-6. Edited
by P. A. Hutchings. Sydney: The Linnean Society of New South Wales.

<<<Page: 140>>>

Gardiner, S. L., and Jones, M. L. "Ultrastructure of Spermiogenesis in the Vestimentiferan Tube Worm Riftia pachyptila (Pogonophora: Obturata)." Transactions of the American Microscopical Society 104 (1)(1985): 19-44.
Harshbarger, J. C. "Fish Neoplasms: Epizootiology, Experimental Carcinogenesis, Risk and Benefits." In Abstracts and Program of the IIth Annual Aquatic Toxicity Workshop (Vancouver, British Columbia) (November 13-15, 1984): 2 pages.
Harshbarger, J. C.;-.Cullen, L. J.; Calabrese, M. J.;
Spero, P. M.; Baumann, P. C.; and Parland, W. K. "Epidermal, Hepatocellular and Cholangiocellular Carcinomas in Brown Bullheads, Ictalurus nebulosus, from Industrially
Polluted Black River, Ohio." Marine and Environmental Research 14 (1984): 535-536. Hart, C. W., Jr.; Manning, R. B.; and Iliffe, T. M. "The
Fauna of Atlantic Marine Caves: Evidence of Dispersal by Sea Floor Spreading While Maintaining Ties to Deep
Waters." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 288-292. Hart, C. W., Jr.; Manning, R. B.; and Iliffe, T. "The Fauna
of Atlantic Marine Caves: Evidence of Dispersal by Sea Floor Spreading While Maintaining Ties to Deep Waters." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1) (1985): 288-292.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Carlson, Paul. "Member of the
Genus Distocambarus (Decapoda: Cambaridae) from the Saluda Basin, South Carolina." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 81-89.
Houbrick, Richard S. A New "Metula" Species from the Indo-West Pacific (Prosobranchia: Buccinidae). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 G28: 420-424.
"The Giant Creeper, Campanile symbolicum Iredale, an Australian Relict Marine Snail." In Living Fossils: 232-235. Edited by S. Stanley and N. Eldridge. Springer-Verlag.
"Diastoma melanioides (Reeve), a Relict Snail from South Australia." In Living Fossils: 236-239. Edited by S. Stanley and N. Eldridge. Springer-Verlag.
"The Relict Cerithiid Prosobranch, Gourmya gourmyi (Crosse)." In Living Fossils: 240-242. Edited by S. Stanley and N. Eldridge. Springer-Verlag.
"Monograph of the Genus Clypeomorus (Cerithiidae,
Prosobranchia)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 403 (1985): 313 pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.
"Going Collecting? Look for a Live Royella sinon." Hawaiian Shell News, 32 (4): U2: 3
Jones, M. L. "The Giant Tube Worms." Oceanus 27 (3)(1984): 47-52.

<<<Page: 141>>>

Jones, M:,L:j,and,Gardiner, SS. Lb. ~"Light::and Scanning Electron Microscopic Studies of Spermatogenesis in the Vestimentiferan Tube Worm Riftia pachyptila (Pogonophora:
Obturata)." Transactions of the American Microscopical Society 104. (1)i451=18..
Kensley, B. "The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, III. New Marine Isopoda." Smithsonian Contributions to Marine Sciences 24 (1984): i-iv, 1-81. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"The Faunal Deposits of a Late Pleistocene Raised Beach at Milnerton, Cape Province, South Africa." Annals
of the South African Museum 95 (2)(1985): 111-122. Kensley, B., and Heard, R. "A New Species of the Genus Spinianirella Menzies (Crustacea: Isopoda: Janiridae)
from the Western Atlantic." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 98 (3): 682-686. Kensley, B., and Tobias, W. "Redescription of Heterocarpus
laevis A. Milne Edwards (Crustacea: Decapoda: Pandalidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1): 237-242.
Kimura, I.; Ando, M.; Kinae, N.; Wakamatsu, Y.; Ozato, K.; and Harshbarger, J. C. "MNNG Induction of Gill Tumors ina Platyfish x Swordtail Fl Hybrid and in Medaka (Oryzias latipes) and Nifurpirinol Induction of Hepatomas in Medaka." In Annual Report Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute 1981-1983 (1984): 60-62. Nagoya, Japan:
Arakawa Printing.
Kornicker, Louis S. "Sexual Dimorphism, Ontogeny, and Functional Morphology of Rutiderma hartmanni Poulsen, 1965 (Crustacea: Ostracoda)." Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology 408 (1985): i-iii, 1-28. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Preliminary Report on Myodocopine Ostracoda (Cypridinoidea)" In Peuplements Profonds du Golfe de Gascogne (1985): 409-412. Edited by L. Laubier and C. Monnoit. tIfremer: Service Documentation-Publications Centre de Brest.
Kornicker, Louis S., and Iliffe, T. M. "Deeveyinae, a New Subfamily of Ostracoda (Halocyprididae) from a Marine Cave on the Turks and Caicos Islands." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2) 1985: 476-493.
Luvs. CurcCesoRoper; Co F.-E. ©. and. Tait; R.eWiWACRevision of Loliolus (Cephalopoda: Loliginidae), Including L. noctiluca, a New Species of Squid from Australian Waters." Proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria 19 (2)(1985): 59-85.
Milliken, M. R., and Williams, Austin B. "Synopsis of Biological Data on the Blue Crab, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun." NOAA Technical Report NMFS. FAO Fisheries Synopsis 1 (138): iv, 39 pages.

<<<Page: 142>>>

Nowell, A. R. M.; Jumars, P. A.; and Fauchald, K. "The Foraging Strategy of a Subtidal and Deep-sea Deposit Feeder." Limnology and Oceanograpy 29 (3)(2984): 645-649.
Pawson, David L. Psychropotes hyalinus, New Species, a Swimming Elasipod Sea Cucumber (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea) from the North Central Pacific Ocean."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2) (1985): 523-525.
. “Review of Echinoid Paleobiology." Bulletin of Marine Science 36 (2)(1985): 401-402.
Perez Farfante, I. "New Locality Records for Cryptopenaeus catherinae De Freitas and Benthesicymus bartletti S.I. Smith (Decapoda: Penaeiodea)." Crustaceana 48 (3)(1985): 316-318.
Perez Farfante, I., and Kensley, B. "Cryptopenaeus crosnieri,
a New Species of Shrimp, and a New Record of C. sinensis (Penaeoidea: Solenoceridae) from Australian Waters." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 @)) 2 281-287.
Perez Farfante, I., and Kensley, B. "Cryptopenaeus crosnieri, a New Species of Shrimp, and a New Record of C. sinensis (Penaeoidea: Solenoceridae) from Australian Waters." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 G1) 281-287.
Pettibone, Marian H. "Two New Species of Lepidonotopodium (Polychaeta: Polynoidae: Lepidonotopodinae) from Hydrothermal Vents off the Galapagos and East Pacific Rise at 21°N." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 849-863.
"Polychaete Worms from a Cave in the Bahamas and from Experimental Wood Panels in Deep Water of the North Atlantic (Polynoidae: Macellicephalinae: Harmothoinae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 127-149.
"An Additional New Scale Worm (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from the Hydrothermal Rift Area off Western Mexico at 21°N." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 150-157.
"Additional Branchiate Scale-worms (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from Galapagos Hydrothermal Vent and Rift-area off Western Mexico at 21°." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 447-469.
"New Genera and Species of Deep-sea Macellicephalinae and Harmothoinae (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from the Hydrothermal Rift Areas off the Galapagos and Western Mexico at 21°N. and from the Santa Catalina Channel." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 C3) C2935 ais 740-757.
Reams, R. C., and Williams, Austin B. "The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii, H. M. Edw., s.1. Populations. in Alabama, U.S.A." Fishery Bulletin 81 (4)(1984 for 1983); 885-890.

<<<Page: 143>>>

Rehder, Harald A. "Cypraea thomasi Cross: A Valid Species."
Levantina: A Malacological Review 49 (1984): 563-565. Israel Malacological Society. "Williamia Monterosato 1884 (Mollusca: Gastropoda):
Proposed./Conservatiliones Z.°N.:\((Si) 2237." Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 41 (3)(1984): 159-162.
Reid, J.W., and Esteves, F.A. "Consideracoes ecologicas e biogeograficas sobre a fauna de copepodos (Crustacea) planctonicos e bentonicos de 14 lagoas costeiras do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil" [Ecological and Biogeographical Considerations on the Planktonic and Benthic Copepod (Crustacea) Fauna of 14 Coastal Ponds, State of Rio de Janeiro, BraziljJ. In Restingas: Origem, Estrutura, Processos (1984): 305-326. Edited by L. D. Lacerda,
D. S. D. Araujo, R. Cerqueira, and B. Turcq. Rio de Janeiro: CEUFF, Niteroi.
Rice, Mary E. "Description of a Wood HyeIanG Sipunculan, Phascolosoma turnerae, New Species. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 54-60.
Rice, Mary E., and Reichardt, H. F. "Larval Development and Metamorphosis of Siphonosoma cumanense (Keferstein, 1867) (Sipuncula)." American Zoologist 24 (3)(1984): 242.
Roper, C. F. E. "S. Stillman Berry (1887-1984): A Tribute Through Glimpses and Reflections." American Malacological
Union Bulletin 3 (1)(1985): 55-61. "Is There a Squid in Your Future: Perspectives for
New Research." In Perspectives in Malacology. American Malacological Union Bulletin, Special Edition no. lL: 93-100.
Schiff scH::; Abbott; 7Bs 4€ i> Mand :Manning;:'ReaBe i"Possible Monocular Range-finding Mechanisms in Stomatopods from Different Environmental Light Conditions." Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology 80A (3)(1985): 271-280.
Schiff; Hes cand Manning, Rs.) B..). "Déscription of ‘a-“Unique Crustacean Eye." Journal of Crustacean Biology 4 (4) (1984): 604-614.
Suarez, -M. F:s;Ayala, D.;) Nelson, ;M. J.; and’ Reid, J. W.
"Hallazgo de Mesocyclops aspericornis (Daday) (Copepoda: Cyclopidae) depredador de larvas de Aedes aegypti en
Anapoima Colombia." [Occurrence of Mesocyclops aspericornis (Daday)(Copepoda: Cyclopidae) Predator of Larvae of Aedes aegypti in Anapoima Colombia]. Biomedica
4 (2) (1:98 4): 74-76.
Sullivany<cB. 2 Miller, Ka: (Singleton: K.1; (Scheer, A: Gs; -and Williams, Austin B. "The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii H. M. Eds., s.1. Electrophoretic Analyses of Hemocyanins from Four Forms With Observations on the Ecology of Form
obesa." Fishery Bulletin 81 (4)(1984 for 1983): 883-885. Sweeney, M. J., and Roper, C. F. E. "The Zoological Taxa and
Bibliography of S. Stillman Berry." American Malacological Union Bulletin 3 (1)(1985): 63-82.

<<<Page: 144>>>

Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "Acanthohaustorius pansus, a New Species of Sand-Burrowing Amphipod from Looe Key Reef, Florida Keys, with Redescription and Distribution Data of Acanthohaustorius bousfieldi Frame, 1980 (Amphipoda: Haustoriidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (December 1984): 909-926, 9 figs.
"Perioculodes cerasinus N. Sp., the First Records of the Genus from the Caribbean Sea (Amphipoda: Oedicerotidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (March 1985): 98-106, 3 figs.
"Two New Species of Two New Gammaridean Genera (Crustacea: Amphipoda) from the Florida Keys." ‘Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (March 1985): 191-203, 7 figs.
Van Dover, C. L.; Williams, Austin B.; and Factor, J. R. "The First Zoeal Stage of a Hydrothermal Vent Crab (Decapoda: Brachyura: Bythograeidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (2)(1984): 413-418.
Williams, Austin B. "The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii, s.1l. Partition Into Six Species (Decapoda: Xanthidae)."
Fishery Bulletin 81 (4)(1984 for 1983): 863-882.
Department of Mineral Sciences
Appleman, D. E.; Dana, James D.; and Pacific Geology. In
Magnificient Voyagers. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. To be published October 1, 1985.
Bish, D. L., and Post, J. E. "Thermal Behavior of Todorokite and Romanechite." Geological Society of America 16 (446)
(1984): (abstract). Bowes, W. A.:; Kutina, J.; Asker, S. K.; Fredriksson, K.; and
Golightly, D. W. "A Porphry-type Mo-Cu Discovery at Granite Mountain, Nevada." Global Tectonics and Metallurgy
1 (1985): 402-439. Chamberlain. GC. P=: Docka, J. Aa: Post. d6 Bas and
Burnham, C. W. "Scapolite: Alkali Atom Configurations, Antiphase Domains, and Compositional Variations." American Mineralogist 70 (1985): 134-140.
Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Structural Development in the Santa Catharina Meteorite." Meteoritics 19 (1984):
207-208(abstract).
Clarke, aR 4Sin, hes iSallamuthu,. Rist and "Goldsiteimar:.] 2h: "Massive Schribersite in the Bellsbank and Santa Luzia Meteorites." Meteoritics 19 (1984): 208 (abstract).
Len! a) (ve)

<<<Page: 145>>>

Dunn, P. J.; Rouse, R. C.; and Nelen, J. A. "Englishite, New Chemical Data and a Second Occurrence, from the Tip Top
Pegmatite, Custer, South Dakota." Canadian Mineralogist 22 (1984): 469-470.
Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; and Simmons, W. B. "Retzian (La), a New Mineral from Sterling Hill, Sussex County, New Jersey." Mineralogical Magazine 48 (1984): 533-535.
Dunn, P. J. "Barian Muscovite from Franklin, New Jersey." Mineralogical Magazine 48 (1984): 562-563.
Dunn, P. J., and Rouse, R. C. "Freedite and Thorikosite from
Langban, Sweden, and Laurion, Greece: Two New Species Related to the Synthetic Bismuth Oxyhalides." American Mineralogist 70 (1985): 845-848.
Dunn, P.J.; Petersen, E. U.; and Peacor, D. R. "Turneaureite, a New Member of the Apatite Group from Franklin, New Jersey, Balmat, New York, and Langban, Sweden." Canadian Mineralogist 23" (7985) tu 251-254.
Dunn, °Ps-J. "Manganese Humites and Leucophoenicites from Franklin and Sterling Hill, New Jersey: Parageneses, Compositions, and Implications for Solid Solution Limits." American Mineralogist 70 (1985): 379-387.
Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; Simmons, W. B.; and Gaines, R. V. "Sverigeite, a New Tin Beryllium Silicate Mineral from Langban, Varmland, Sweden." Geologiska Foreningens Forhanlingar <i “Stockholm 106 (1984): 175-177...
Dunn, P. J., and Ferraiolo, J. A. "Memorial of Earl Shannon". American Mineralogist 69 (1984): 993.
Dunn; °P. J.;°Péeacor, D.. Ri; Leavens, P. B.; and Wicks; “F. “J. "Minehillite, a New Layer Silicate Related to Reyerite and Truscottite. American Mineralogist 69 (1984): 1150-1155.
Etz ESS! sNewbucy, (Dw ES: Dunn Ps od Shand Grice, -d-4 Dp? "Application of Synergistic Microanalysis Techniques to the Study of a Possible New Mineral Containing Light
Elements." Microbeam Analysis 1985 (1985): 60-64. Fredriksson, K.; Clarke, R. S., Jr.; and Pugh, R. "A New H-3 Chondrite from Study Butte, Texas." Meteoritics 19 (4):
°225-226(abstract). Fredriksson, «Kii-Murty 4S. Vio St. and Marti. K:-="Some
Chemical and Isotopic Observations in Chondrules." Meteoritics 20 (2/2): 347-357.
Fiske, Ri S., and*Nielsen, E.°"Church's. Cotopaxi: -A-Modern Volconological Perspective." In Creation and Renewal, Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic Edwin Church (1985): 1-6. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Grice, J. D.; Van Velthuizen, J.; and Dunn, P. J. "A New Yttrium-borate-carbonate Mineral from the Evans-Lou Pegmatite, Quebec, Geological Association of Canada/Mineralogical Association of Canada, 1985 Joint Meeting, Programs with Abstracts (1985): A23.

<<<Page: 146>>>

Grice, J: De, Peacor,, D.wR.c7 Robinson. G.% Wes Van Velthuizen, J.; Roberts, W. L.; Campbell, T. J.: and Dunn, Pe. J...) "“Tiptopa te,
(Li, K, Na, Ca)gBeg(POq4)¢(OH)q. a New Mineral Species from the Black Hills, South Dakota." Canadian Mineralogist 23 (1985): 43-46.
Hinton, R. W.; Grossman, L.; and MacPherson, G. J. "Magnesium and Calcium Isotopes in Hibonite-bearing CAI's." Meteoritics 19 (1984): 240-241 (abstract).
Jarosewich, E., and Dodd, R. T. "Chemical Variations Among L-chondritesIV." Analyses, with petrographic notes of 13 L-group and 3 LL-group chondrites. Meteoritics 20 (1985): 23-36.
MacPherson, G. J.; Grossman, L.; Hashimoto, A.;
Bar-Matthews, M.; and Tanaka, T. "Petrographic Studies of Refractory Inclusions from the Murchison Meteorite." Journal of Geophysical Research Supplement 89 (1984):
MacPherson, G. J., Grossman, L. "Accretionary Rims on Inclusions in Allende: Clues to the Accretion of the Allende Parent Body." Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta. In press.
MacPherson, G. J. Refractory Inclusions in the Mighei C2 Meteorite. Meteoritics 19 (1984): 262-263 (abstract).
MacPherson, G. J., and Delaney, J. S. "AR Fassaite-two olivine-pleonaste-bearing Refractory Inclusion from Karoonda." Lunar and Planetary Science 16: 515-516 (abstract).
Melson, W. G. "Alternation Between Acidic and Basic Magmas in
Major Explosive Eruptions of Arenal Volcano, Costa Rica." Boletin de Volcanolgia (Universidat Nacional, Costa Rica) 174 (1985 ).: 65-76.
Murase, T.; McBirney, A. R.; and Melson, W. G. "Viscosity of the Dome of Mount St. Helens." Journal Volcanology and Geothermal Research 24 (1985): 193-204.
Oen, I. S.; Dunn, P. J.: and Kieft, C. "The Nickel Arsenide Assemblage from Franklin, New Jersey." Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Abhandlungen 150 (1984): 259-272.
Pagoaga, K.; Appleman, D. E.; and Stewart, J. M. "Protasite, a New Mineral of the Uranyl Oxide Hydrate Group." Mineralogical Magazine. In press.
Peacor,. .D. R.; Dunn, P. J.: and Simmons, W. B. "Earlshannonite, the Mn Analogue of Whitmoreite, from North Carolina." Canadian Mineralogist 22 (1984): 472-474.
Peacor, -D. R.; Dunn, PP. J.«; and Simmons, Wa Ba “Raulkerrite; a New Titanium Phosphate from Arizona." Mineralogical
Record 15 (1984): 303-306. Peacor, D,. Rei Dunn, PP. Jin} Ramik, Rw An: Campbells)! Tat ss sand
Roberts, W. L. "A Wicksite-like Mineral from the Bull Moose Mine, South Dakota." Canadian Mineralogist 23
(1985): 247-249.

<<<Page: 147>>>

PeacoreD. a.Ri0r Dunn: oP.) Joe Ramik > “Rs aA “Sturman, B.D. : “and Zeihen, L. G. "Philipsburgite, a New Copper Zinc Arsenate Hydrate Related to Kipushite, from Montana." Canadian Mineralogist 23 (1985): 255-258.
Peacor, D. R.; Dunn, P. J.; Schnorrer-Kohler, G.; and
Bideaux, R. A. "Mammothite, a New Mineral from Tiger, Arizona, and Laurium, Greece." Mineralogical Record 16 (1985): 117-120.
Peacor, D. R., and Dunn, P. J. "Sodium-pharmacosiderite, a
New Analog of Pharmacosiderite from Australia, and New Occurrences of Barium-pharmacosiderite from Australia." Mineralogical Record 16 (1985): 121-124.
Petersen,. O.<V.3."Bolilhorn,) 3.4 .and Dunn Pid. "A Highly Magnesian Alleghanyite from Sterling Hill, New Jersey." Mineralogical Record 15 (1984): 299-302.
Post, J. E., and Busek, P. R. "Quantitative Energy Dispersive Analysis of Lead Halide Particles from the Phoenix Urban Aerosol." Environmental Science and Technology. In press.
Post, J. E., and Burnham, C. W. "Disordering in High Albite: Insights from Electrostatic Energy Minimizations."
Geological Society of America Abstracts 16: 625 (abstract).
Rachlin, .-A.<.b.3.Mandarino, J. A.3) Ramik,. R.. A.
Murowchick, B. L.; and Dunn, P. J. "Mineralogy of Hilgardite from New Brunswick." Geological Association of Canada/Mineralogical Association of Canada, 1985 Joint Meeting, Programs with Abstracts (1985): A50O.
Rouse, R. C., and Dunn, P. J. "A Re-examination of Sahlintie." Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie Monatschefte (1985): 127-131.
Rouse,-R.~C.,.,.and.Dunn,, P.. ds. "ThesStructure of Thorikosite; a Naturally Occuring Member of the Bismuth Oxyhalide Group." «Journal of }Solid. State Chemistry°57 (19865).
Rouse, R.# C.3.Dunn,.Ps J.¢)and«Peacor; .D.. RE "Hedyphane from Franklin, New Jersey, and Langban, Sweden: Cation Ordering in an Arsenate Apatite." American Mineralogist 69 (1984): 920-927.
Roy-Poulsen, H.; Larsen L.; Roy-Poulsen, N. 0.; Vistisen, L.; and Clarke,.R..Si, Ir. "Mossbauer Spectroscopy and X-ray Diffraction of Samples from the Santa Catharina Iron Meteorite." Meteoritics 19 (1984): 303 (abstract).
Rubin,-A.-EB.j;adames,+3. Az:..Keck; BiasaDzs Weeks siK.S.5 Sears, D. G.; and Jarosewich, E. "The Colony Meteorite and Variations in CO3 Chondrite Properties." Meteoritics 20 (1985): 175-196.
Simkin, T. S.;,.and McClelland, <L.é"Spurred byBvents; Volcanology Thrives." Geotimes 29 (1984): 15-16.

<<<Page: 148>>>

Sorensen, S. S. "Petrologic Evidence for Jurassic, Island-arc Like Basement Rocks in the Southwestern Transverse Ranges and Southern California Borderland." Geological Society of America Bulletin. In press.
"Trace Element Effects of Eclogite/Peridotite Metasomatism, Catalina Schist Terrane, Southern California." Geological Society of America Abstracts, with Programs 16 (1984): 663 (abstract).
"Metamorphism of Jurassic, Island-arc-basement Rocks from the Transverse Ranges and Southern California Borderland." Geological Society of America Abstracts 17 (19:85): 410.
Stolper, E.; MacPherson, G. J.; Beckett, J. R.; and
Grossman, L. "Thermometry of Ca-Al-rich Inclusions." Lunar Planetary Science 16: 827-828 (abstract). Walenta, K., and Dunn, P. J. "Arsenogoyazit, ein neues
Mineral der Crandallitgruppe aus dem Schwarzwald."
Schweizerishe Mineralogische und Petrographische Mitteilungen 64 (1984): 11-19.
White, J. S. "Vanadinite from Touissit, Morocco, and Comments on Endlichite." Mineralogical Record 15 (1984): 347-350.
Department of Paleobiology
Anastasakis, G. C., and Stanley, D. J. "Sapropels and Organic-rich Variants in the Mediterranean: Sequence Development and Classification." Edited by D. A. V. Stow and D. J. W. Piper. In Fine-Grained Sediments: Deep Water Processes and Facies: Geological Society of London Special
Publication 15 (1984): 497-510. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific Publications.
Barnes; b2.G.'s “Domning, D. P.3“and Ray, Cs EB... —"Status*ot Studies on Fossil Marine Mammals." Marine Mammal Science 1 CAD G29'3'S i: 5 =53".
Behrensmeyer, A. K. "Taphonomy: New Insights for the Fossil Record." American Scientist 72 (6)(1984): 558-66.
"Miocene Fluvial Facies and Vertebrate Taphonomy in Pakistan." Third International Fluvial Sedimentology
Conference, August 7-9, 1985, Fort Collins, Colorado: Abstract Volume (1985): 8 (abstract).
Behrensmeyer, A. K., and Kidwell, S. M. "Taphonomy's Contributions to Paleobiology." Paleobiology 11 (1) (1985): 105-19.
Benson, R. HH. "Estimating Greater Paleodepths with
Ostracodes, Especially in Past Thermospheric Oceans."
Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology 48 (1) (1984): 107-41.

<<<Page: 149>>>

Cheetham, A. H. "Mechanical Vs. Spatial Constraints on Arborescent Growth in Evolution of Cheilostome Bryozoans." In Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs, Northeastern Section Meeting 17 (1)(1985): 10 (abstract). "Branching, Biomechanics and Bryozoan Evolution." In Discussion Meeting on Growth and Form of Modular Organisms,
London, England, June 27-28, 1985, Abstracts (1985): 3 (abstract). London: The Royal Society.
Culver, S. J., and Buzas, M. A. "Distribution of Recent Benthic Foraminifera off the North American Pacific Coast: Oregon to Alaska." Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences#cnos.~26(1985)-; "Washington, D:. Gs: -Smithsonian Institution Press.
Gerges; Mie Av, and Stanley, D.i%d. "Assessing Hydrography and Man's Influence on Sediments in the Northern Suez Canal." Marine Geology 65 (3/4)(1985): 325-31.
Graus, R. R.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Herchenroder, B. E. Environmental Control of Caribbean Reef Zonation: Experiments in Computer Simulation." In Joint Meeting of the Atlantic Reef Committee and the International Society for Reef Studies, Miami, Florida, October 26-28, 1984, Abstracts (1984): 45 (abstract). Miami: University of Miami.
"Computer Simulation of the Holocene Facies History of a Caribbean Fringing Reef, Galeta Point, Panama." In Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti, 27 May-1 June, 1985: Volume 2, Abstracts (1985): 154. Edited by C. Gabrie, J. L. Toffart, and B. Salvat. Moorea, French Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.
Hill, Andrew, and Behrensmeyer, A. K. "Disarticulation Patterns of Some Modern East African Mammals."
Paleobiology 10 (3)(1984): 366-76.
"More Natural Disarticulation and Butchery." American Antiquity 50 (1)(1985): 141-45.
Macintyre, I. G. "Preburial and Shallow-Subsurface Alteration of Modern Scleractinian Corals." In Recent Advances in the Paleobiology and Geology of the Cnidafia, Proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Fossil Cnidaria, Washington, D.C., August, 1983; Palaeontographica Americana, no. 54 (1984): 229-44. Edited by W. A. Oliver, Wil "Sando. SS: Dé Cairns, A. G. Coates; Ts"G. Macintyre, EFoeMiBayer; and J.B. Soravt:. Ithaca, New York: Paleontological Research Institute.
"Submarine Cements The Peloidal Question." In Carbonate Cements: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists Special Publication, no. 36 (1985): 109-16. Edited by N. Schneidermann and P. M. Harris. Tulsa:
Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists.

<<<Page: 150>>>

Macintyre, I. G.; Multer, H. G.; Zankl, H. L.; Hubbard, D. K.; Weiss, M. P.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Growth and Depositional Facies of a Windward Reef Complex, Nonsuch Bay, Antigua, W.I." In Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti, 27 May-l June, 1985: Volume 2, Abstracts €7985)° .260...Edited.by ¢. Gabrie, J. cLecToffarts cand B. Salvat. Moorea, French Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.
Mamay, S. H., and Reed, B. L. "Permian Plant Megafossils from the Conglomerate of Mount Dall, Central Alaska Range." In The United States Geological Survey in Alaska: Accomplishments During 1981; United States Geological Survey Circular 868 (1984): 98-102. Edited by W. L. Coonrad and R. L. Elliott. Reston: United States Geological Survey.
Mamay, S. H.; Miller, J. L.; and Rohr, D. M. "Late Leonardian: Plants from West Texas: The Youngest Paleozoic Plant Megafossils in North America." Science 223 (4633)(1984): 279-81.
Neumann, A. C., and Macintyre, I. G. "Reef Response to Sea Level Rise: Keep-up, Catch-up, or Give-up." In Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti, 27 May-1l June 1985: Volume 2, Abstracts (1985): 266. Edited by C. Gambrie, J. L. Toffart, and B. Salvat. Moorea, French Polynesia: Antenne Museum-EPHE.
Oliver, W. A.; Sando, W. J.; Cairns, S. D.; Coates, A. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; Bayer, F. M.; and Sorauf, J. E. Recent Advances in the Paleobiology and Geology of the Cnidaria, Proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Fossil Cnidaria, Washington, D.C., August, 1983; Palaeontographica Americana, no. 54 (1984). Ithaca, New York: Paleontological Research Institute.
Pierce, J. W.; Correll, De L.3 Goldberg, Bernard: “and Klein, W. H. "Variability in Concentration of Suspensates in an Estuarine Environment." Geo-Marine Letters 4 (3-4) (1984-1985): 153-55.
Ray, C. E. "Fossil Seals from the Calvert Formation of the Pamunkey River, Hanover County, Virginia." In Stratigraphy and Paleontology of the Outcropping Tertiary Beds in the Pamunkey River Region, Central Virginia Coastal Plain, Guidebook for the 1984 Field Trip, Atlantic Coastal Plain Geological Association (1984): 232-35. Edited by L. W. Ward and Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Old Dominion University.
Ray, C. E., and Sanders, A. E. "Pleistocene Tapirs in the Eastern United States." In Contributions in Quaternary Vertebrate Paleontology: A Volume in Memorial to John E. Guilday: Special Publication of Carnegie Museum of
Natural History, no. 8 (1984): 283'=3:L5:. Edited by H. H. Genoways and M. R. Dawson. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Museum of Natural History.

<<<Page: 151>>>

Shipp.” R:(C.; Staples, S..A.3. and Adeyis W:... H.i 'Geomorphologic Trends in a Glaciated Coastal Bay: A Model for the Maine Coast." Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, no. 25 (1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Sorauf, J. E., and Macintyre, I. G. "Diagenesis ,of Carbonate Material: Implications for the Study of Fossil Cnidaria Introduction, Invitational Symposium." In Recent Advances in the Paleobiology and Geology of the Cnidaria; Proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Fossil Cnidaria, Washington, D.C., August, 1983; Palaeontographica Americana, no. 54 (1984): 227-28. Edited by W. A. Oliver, W.sd.22Sandot<S.=-D.~ Cai-rns,-A-G. Coates’, ~1.<G.. Macintyre, F. M. Bayer, and J. E. Sorauf. Ithaca, New York: Paleontological Research Institute.
Stanley, D. J. "Mud Redeposition and Problems of Assessing Microfossil, Isotopic, and Radiocarbon Data in the Mediterranean." Marine Geology 62 (3/4)(1984): 381-89.
"Unifites: Structureless Muds of Gravity-Flow Origin in Mediterranean Basins." Rapport de la Commission
Internationale pour 1'Exploration Scientifique de la Mer Mediterranee, December, 1982, Cannes, France 28 (1984): 199-201.
"Symposium on Sedimentology in the Mediterranean Summary Report." XXIXth Congress, Commission Internationale pour 1'Exploration Scientifique de la Mer Mediterranee, October 11-19, 1984, Lucerne, Switzerland
(1984). "Mud Redepositional Processes as a Major Influence on Mediterranean Margin-Basin Sedimentation." In Geological
Evolution of the Mediterranean Basin (1985): 337-410. Edited by D. J. Stanley and F. C. Wezel. New York: Springer-Verlag.
Stanley, D. J., and Wezel, F. C. eds. Geological Evolution of
the Mediterranean Basin (1985). New York: Springer-Verlag.
Stanley, D. J.; Nelsen, T. A.; and Stuckenrath, R. "Recent Sedimentation on the New Jersey Slope and Rise." Sciencé 226 (4671)(1984): 125-33.
Waller, T. R. “Jurassic 'Malleidae' and the Distinction
between Ostreoida and Pterioda (Mollusca: Bivalvia)." Journal of Paleontology 59 (3)(1985): 768-69.
Westgate, J. W., and Emry, R. J. "Land Mammals of the Crow Creek Local Fauna, Late Eocene, Jackson Group, St. Francis County, Arkansas." Journal of Paleontology 59 (1)(1985): 242-48.

<<<Page: 152>>>

Whitmore, F. C., Jr. "Cetaceans from the Calvert and Eastover Formations, Pamunkey River, Virginia." In Stratigraphy and
Paleontology of the Outcropping Tertiary Beds in thePamunkey River Region, Central Virginia Coastal Plain, Guidebook for the 1984 Field Trip, Atlantic Coastal Plain
Geological Association (1984): 227-31. Edited by L. W. Ward and Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Old Dominion
University.
"Land Mammals from the Calvert Formation, Pamunkey River, Virginia." In Stratigraphy and Paleontology of the Outcropping Tertiary Beds in the Pamunkey River Region, Central Virginia Coastal Plain, Guidebook for the 1984
Field Trip, Atlantic Coastal Plain Geological Association (1984): 236-39. Edited by L. W. Ward and
Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Old Dominion University.
Review of "American Science in the Age of Jefferson," by J. C. Green. Earth Sciences History 3 (2)(1984): 188-90.
Review of "Sea of Slaughter," by Farley Mowat. Audubon Naturalist News 11 (4)(1985): 8.
Wing, S. L. "A New Basis for Recognizing the Paleocene Eocene Boundary in Western Interior North America." Science 226 (4673)(1984): 439-41.
Review of "Catastrophes and Earth History." Edited by W. A. Berggren and J. A. Van Couvering. Earth Sciences Bistoxy 3 (2) (4984): 190-91.
"Impressions of Fallen Leaves." Earth Science 37
(4) (1984): 16-17.
"Eocene and Oligocene Vegetation of the Northern Rocky Mountains." In Proceedings of the Pacific Division, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 66th Annual Meeting, University of Montana, Missoula, June 9-14, 1985, Program with Abstracts 4 (part 1)(1985): 43
(abstract).
Wing. S. L., and Bown, T. M. "Fine Scale Reconstruction of the Late Paleocene-Early Eocene Paleogeography in the Bighorn Basin of Northern Wyoming." In Cenozoic
Paleogeography of the West Central United States, Rocky Mountain Symposium 3 (1985): 93-105. Edited by R. M. Flores and S. Kaplan. Denver: Rocky Mountain Section, Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists.
“Late Paleocene-Early Eocene Paleogeography of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming." In Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, Annual Midyear Meeting,
Golden, Colorado, August 11-14, 1985, Abstracts 2 (1985): 98 (abstract).
Wing. S. L., and Tiffney, B. H. "Evolution of Angiosperms and Terrestrial Herbivores." In Third International Congress
of Systematic and Evolutionary Biology, Brighton, Sussex,
England, July 4-10, 1985: Abstract Volume (1985): 214 (abstract).

<<<Page: 153>>>

Yochelson, E. L. The National Museum of Natural History (1985). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press. Review of "Disclosing the Past," by Mary Leakey. Science Books and Films 20 (4)(1985): 200. . Review of "Discoverers of the Lost World," by G. G. Simpson. Science Books and Films 20 (4)(1985): 201.
Yochelson, E. L., and Nuelle, L. M. "Strepsodiscus (Gastropoda) in the Late Cambrian of Missouri." Journal of
Paleontology 59 (3)(1985): 733-40. Yochelson, E. L.; Boyd, D. W.; and Wardlaw, B. R. "Redescription of Bellerophon bittneri (Gastropoda:
Triassic) from Wyoming." Contributions to Geology 23 (2) (1985): 99-104.
Department of Vertebrate Zoology
Ahlstrom, E. H.; Richards, W. J.:; and Weitzman, S$. H. "Families Gonostomatidae, Sternoptychidae, and Associated Stomiiform Groups: Development and Relationships." In Ontogeny and Systematics of Fishes (1984): 184-198.
Edited by H. G. Moser and W. J. Richards. American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists.
Anderson, W. D., Jr., and Johnson, G. D. "A New Species of Callanthias (Pisces: Perciformes: Percoidei: Callanthiidae) from the Southeastern Pacific Ocean."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 942-950.
Beehler, Bruce M. "Conservation of New Guinea Rainforest Birds." International Council for Bird Preservation Technical Publication, no. 4 (1985): 233-247.
Carleton, Michael D. "Macroanatomy." In Biology of New World
Microtus, Special Publication no. 8 (1985): 116-175.
Edited by R. H. Tamarin. American Society of Mammalogists. Cooke, Richard G., and Olson, Storrs L. "An Archaeological
Record for the White-faced Whistling-duck (Dendrocygna viduata) in Central Panama." Condor 86 (4)(1984): 493-494.

<<<Page: 154>>>

[o'2)
Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "“Astronesthidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 325-335. Edited by P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO. :
"Chauliodontidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 336-337. Edited by P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.
"Stomiidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 338-340. Edited by P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.
"Melanostomiidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 341-365. Edited by P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.
"Malacosteidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 366-370. Edited by P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.
"Tdiacanthidae." In Fishes of the North-eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean (1984): 371-372. Edited by P. J. P. Whitehead, et al. Paris: UNESCO.
Gomon, Janet R., and Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. "Taxonomy and Distribution of the Stomioid Fish Genus Eustomias (Melanostomiidae), II: Biradiostomias, New Subgenus." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 409 (1985): i-iii, 1-58.
Handley, Charles. "New Species of Mammals from Ronen South
America: A Long-Tongued Bat, Genus Anoura Gray.
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 C3) (1984): 513-521.
"The Black-Headed Gull Inland in Virginia
(March 1983-January 1985)." The Raven 54 (1)(1985): 18-20. Hansen, Larry. J.: ‘Perrin, William F.; Sokolov,. Anatoli SS.) -and Mead, James G. "A List of American and Soviet Institutions Possessing Collections of Osteological Specimens from Pinnipeds and Sea Otters." In Soviet-American Cooperative
Research on Marine Mammals 1 (1984): 101-104. Pinnipeds. Edited by F. H. Fay and G. A. Fedoseev.
Heyer, W. Ronald. "Variation, Systematics, and Zoogeography of Eleutherodactylus gquentheri and Closely Related Species (Amphibia: Anura: Leptodactylidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 402 (1984): 1-42.
"Taxonomic and Natural History Notes on Frogs of the
Genus Centrolenella (Amphibia: Centrolenidae) from Southeastern Brasil and Adjacent Argentina." Papeis
Avulsos de Zoologia 36 (1)(1985): 1-21.
"The Systematic Status of Adenomera griseigularis Henle, with Comments on Systematic Problems in the Genus Adenomera (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae)." Amphibia-Reptilia Se C2) 1(09:8'5 ) 7 97-100.

<<<Page: 155>>>

Keene, M. J., and Tighe, K. A. "Beryciformes: Development and Relationships." In Ontogeny and Systematics of Fishes, Special Publication no. 1 (1984): 383-392. Edited by H. G. Moser, et al. American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists. beim
Mead, James G. Review of "Strandings, Ways to Save Whales: A ‘Humane Conservationists Guide," by F. D. Robson. African Wildlife 38 (4)(1984): 168-169. i
"Survey of Reproductive Data for the Beaked Whales (Ziphiidae)." Reports of the International Whaling Commission, Special Issue no. 6 (1984): 91-96.
Mead, James G., and Mitchell, Edward D. "Atlantic Gray Whales." In The Gray Whale (1984): 33-53. Edited by
_ M. L. Jones, S. L. Swartz, and S. Leatherwood.
Olson, Storrs L. "A Brief Synopsis of the Fossil Birds from the Pamunkey River and Other Tertiary Marine Deposits in Virginia." Stratigraphy and Paleontology of the Outcropping Tertiary Beds in the Pamunkey River Region, Central Virginia Coastal Plain. Guidebook for the 1984 Field Trip Atlantic Coastal Plain Geological Association (1984): 217-223. Edited by Lauck W. Ward and Kathleen Krafft. Norfolk: Atlantic Coastal Plain Geological Association.
"The Last St. Kitts Bullfinch Loxigilla portoricensis grandis (Emberizinae) and the Extinction of Its Race." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 104 (4) (1984): 121-123.
"The Relationships of the Extinct Chatham Island Eagle." Notornis 31 (4)(1984): 273-277.
"AR Hamerkop from the Early Pliocene of South Africa (Aves: Scopidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 736-740.
"Evidence of a Large Albatross in the Miocene of Argentina (Aves: Diomedeidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (4)(1984): 741-743.
"A New Species of Siphonorhis from Quaternary Cave
Deposits in Cuba (Aves: Caprimulgidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 526-532.
"The Italian Specimen of Bulweria fallax (Procellariidae)." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Gib 0512s). GL 9185) % 29-30.
"Weights of Some Cuban Birds." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 105 (2)(1985): 68-69.
"The Fossil Record of Birds." Avian Biology 8
(1985): 79-238. Edited by Donald S. Farner, James R. King, and Kenneth C. Parkes. New York and London: Academic Press.
"Pleistocene Birds of Puerto Rico." National Geographic Society Research Reports 18 (1985): 563-566.
"Possil Seabirds and Marine Environments ." South African Journal of Science 81 (6)(1985): 290-291.
"Barly Pliocene Procellariiformes (Aves) from Langebaanweg, South-western Cape Province, South Africa." Annals of the South African Museum 95 (3)(1985): 123-145.

<<<Page: 156>>>

"An Early Pliocene Marine Avifauna from Duinefontein, Cape Province, South Africa." Annals of the South African Museum 95 (4)(1985): 147-164.
Olson, Storrs L., and Ames, Peter L. "Promerops as a Thrush and Its Implications for the Evolution of Nectarivory in Birds." Ostrich 56 (4)(1984): 213-218.
Potter, iC. Wi: "Marine Mammals of Maryland." In Threatened and Endangered Plants and Animals of Maryland, Special Publication 84-1 (1984): 442-453. Edited by A. W. Norden, D. C. Forester, and G. H. Fenwick. Maryland Natural Heritage Program.
Ripley, S$. Dillon. "Conservation." The Phenomenon of Change (1984): 68.
"Know thy Neighbor as Thyself." Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 9 (3)(1984): 196-199. "The Sacred Grove: An Afterword." Museum Studies
Journal 1 (5)(1984): 48-49.
"Hypsipetes madagascariensis sinensis (La Touche): A First Record for India." Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 81 (1)(1984): 195-196.
Review of Dear Lord Rothschild, by Miriam Rothschild. American Scientist 72 (6)(1984): 617-618.
Springer, Victor G. "Oman ypsilon, a New Genus and Species of Blenniid Fish from the Indian Ocean." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 90-97.
Steadman, David W., and Olson, Storrs L. "Bird Remains from
an Archaeological Site on Henderson Island, South Pacific: Man-caused Extinctions on an 'Uninhabited' Island."
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 82 (1985): 6191-6195.
Thorington, R. W., Jr. "Flying Squirrels Are Monophyletic. Science 225 (1984): 1048-1050.
"The Taxonomy and Distribution of Squirrel Monkeys
(Saimiri)." In Handbook of Squirrel Monkey Research
(2985): 1-33. Edited by L. A. Rosenblum and C. L. Coe. Tighe, K. A., and Keene, M. J. "Zeiformes: Development and
Relationships." In Ontogeny and Systematics of Fishes,
Special Publication no. 1 (1984): 393-398. Edited by H. G. Moser, et al. American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists.
Vari, Richard P. "Two New Fish Species of the Genus Curimata (Pisces: Curimatidae) from Venezuela." Acta Biologica Venezuelica 11 (4)(1984): 27-43.
"Family Teraponidae." In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fisheries Purposes, Western Indian Ocean (1984): 13 pages.
"Family Ambassidae." In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fisheries Purposes, Western Indian Ocean (1984): 2 pages.
"Systematics of the Neoeage ca Gate eee Genus Potamorhina (Pisces: Characiformes). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 400 (1985): 1-36.
"A New Species of Bivibranchia (Pisces: Characiformes) from Surinam, with Comments on the Genus.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2) (1985): 511-522.

<<<Page: 157>>>

Weitzman, M. J., and Weitzman, S. H. "A Brazilian Biologist A Permanéncia de Rodolpho von Ihering, Livro Jubilar pela Passagem do Primeiro Centenario do Seu Nascimento (1883-1983). Melquiades Pinto Paiva. Ed. Fundagao Brasileira para a Conservacao de Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
1984. 212 pp. ills. Paper $8." Science 288 (1985): U72-173" “
Weitzman, S. H. "Biogeography of the Glandulocaudine Characid Freshwater Fishes of South America." In National
Geographic Society Research Reports, 1977. National Geographic Society 18 (1985): 775-778.
Wetmore, Alexander; Pasquier, Roger F.; and Olson, Storrs L. "Birds of the Republic of Panama. Part 4: Order Passeriformes, Suborder Passeres, Hirundinidae (Swallows)
to Fringillidae (Finches)." Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 150 (4)(1984): vi, 670. Williams, Jeffrey T. "Cirripectes imitator, a New Species of
Western Pacific Blenniid Fish." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (2)(1985): 533-538.
Zug, George R. "Pacific Island Lizards -Status of Type Specimens from the US Exploring Expedition." Copeia 1
(1985): 150-154. "AR New Skink (Reptilia: Sauria: Leiolopisma) from
Fiji." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 918i a1) G19'8:5:)r3 221=—23) 1.
. Review of "The Rattlesnake." Science Books and Films 20 (4)(1985): 219. Review of "The Alligator." Science Books and Films
20: -€5))(€198 5) 309.."Anuran Locomotion: Fatigue and Jumping Performance." Herpetologica 41 (2)(1985): 188-194. Review of "The Book of Indian Reptiles."
Herpetologica 41 (2)(1985): 236-237.
Zug, George R., and Balazs, George H. "Skeletochronological Age Estimates for Hawaiian Green Turtles." Marine Turtle Newsletter 33 (1985): 9-10.
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
Boxshall, G.; Ferrari, F.; and Tiemann, H. eds. "The Ancestral Copepod: Towards a Concensus Opinion at the First International Conference on Copepoda." Crustaceana Supplement 7 (1984): 68-84.
Ferraris, Fi. "A Copepodologist's Thoughts About Punctuated Equilibrai." Crustaceana 47 (1984): 220-224.
"Pleiotropy and Pleuromamma, the Looking-glass Copepods." Crustaceana Supplement 7 (1984): 166-181. Hendler, G. "Brittlestar Color-change and Phototaxis (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea: Ophiocomidae)." P.S.Z.N.I1.: Marine Ecology 5 (4)(1984): 379-401. Landrum, Bi. J., "Biclogical Services. and Collections.” U.S. Antarctic Journal of the U.S. 18 (5)(1984): 294-295.

<<<Page: 158>>>

Menez, E. G. "History of Philippine Phycology." In
Proceedings of the First Philippines-US Phycology Workshop, October 24-November 5, 1984. Manila, Philippines.
Menez, E. G., and Calumpong, H. P. "Halophila decipiens: An Unreported Seagrass in the Philippines." Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1)(1985): 232-236.
Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port
Byrne, Maria. "The Mechanical Properties of the Autotomy Tissues of the Holothurian Eupentacta quinguesemita (Selenka) and the Effects of Certain
Physico-chemical Agents. Journal of Experimental Biology D7 GESBIS)2
Harasewych, M. G. "Comparative Anatomy of Four Primitive Muricacean Gastropods: Implications for Trophonine Phylogeny." American Malacological Bulletin 3 (1) (1984): 11-26. 2
Jensen, Paul R.; Gibson, Robert A.; Littler, Mark M.; and Littler, Diane S. "Photosynthesis and Calcifiction in Four Deep-Water Halimeda Species (Chlorophycae, Caulerpales). Journal of Deep-Sea Research 32 (4)(1985): 451-464.
Kristensen, Reinhardt Mobjerg, and Higgins, Robert P. "A New Family of Arthrotardigrada (Tardigrada: > Heterotardigrada) from the Atlantic Coast of Florida
U.S.A." Transactions of the American Microscopical Society Os 63) (1984's 29'5=—3 02
Littler, Mark M.; Littler, Diane; Blair, Stephen; and
Norris, James N. "The Deepest Known Plant Life on Earth Is Discovered on an Uncharted Seamount." Science 227 (1985): 57-59.
Manning, Raymond B., and Holthuis, L. B. "Geryon fenneri, a New Deep-water Crab from Florida (Crustacea: Decapoda: Geryonidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97 (3)(1984): 666-673.
Rice, Mary E. "Description of a Wood-dwelling
Sipunculan Phascolosoma turnerae, New Species."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (1) (2985): 54-60.
Rice, Mary E., and Reichardt, Hugh F. "Larval Development and Metamorphosis of Siphonosoma cumanense (Keferstein, 1867)(Sipuncula)." American Zoologist 24 (3)(1984): 242.
Schiff, H., and Manning, R. B. "Description of a Unique Crustacean Eye." Journal of Crustacean Biology 4
(4)(1984): 604-614.

<<<Page: 159>>>

Publications of the National Zoological Park
Animal Departments
Beck, B. 1984. The great escape. On The Edge, 25:11,17.
Beck, B. 1985. Double jeopardy: The gorilla dilemma. Zoogoer, 14:9-15. Bingaman, L. 1985. How fast can an alligator run? Zoogoer, 14:15-17.
Eisenberg, J. E. and E. Gould. 1984. The insectivores. A. Jolly, P. Oberlé and R. Albignac (eds). Key Environments. Madagascar. (New York, Pergamon). Pp. 155-165.
Stevens, L. 1985. Genetic management through deception. Lion-Tales, 2:1.
Department of Animal Health
Alvarado, T.P. 1985. What is your diagnosis? J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. In press.
Alvarado, T.P. and R.J. Montali. 1985. What is your diagnosis? J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. In press.
Bush, M., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, T.P. Alvarado and W.J. Ravich. _(1985) Acute hemorrhagic enteritis in a male giant panda. (Submitted)
Bush, M., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, S.B. Citino, G. Boch, and Ed. Ruley. (1985) Anemia and renal failure in a giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). (Submitted).
Goodrowe, K.L. and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Ovarian response to gonadotropins in natural and induced-estrus cats. Fed. Proc. p. 2536.
Goodrowe, K.L., P.K. Chakraborty and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Pituitary and gonadal response to exogenous LH-releasing hormone in the male domestic cat. J. Endocrinol. 105:175-181.

<<<Page: 160>>>

Hall, L.L., M. Bush, J.G. Howard and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Migration of sperm from various species through a synthetic cervical mucus. Fed. Proc. p. 2537.
Hall, L.L., M. Bush, J.G. Howard and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Intra-and interspecies comparison of sperm migration through polyacrylamide gel as an index of spermatozoal viability. Zoo Biol. (in press).
Hall, L.L., M. Bush, R.J. Montali, P.K. Chakroborty and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Loss of genetic variation affects testes/endocrine function in the male dog. Proceedings: 3rd Internat. Cong. Androl.
Knight, J. A., M. Bush, M. Celma, A. L. Garcia del Campo, R. Goltenboth, J. P. Hearn, J. K. Hodges, D. M. Jones, H. G. Klos, L. Monsalve, R. Montali, H. D. M. Moore. 1985. Veterinary aspects of reproduction in the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Bongo (sumbitted).
O'Brien, S.J., M.E. Roelke, L. Marker, A. Newman, C.W. Winkler, D. Meltzer, L. Colly, J. Everman, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Genetic basis for species vulnerability in the cheetah. Science 227:1428-1434.
O'Brien, S.J., W.G. Nash, D.E. Wildt, M. Bush and R.E. Benveniste. 1985. Riddle of the giant panda's phlogeny: A molecular solution. Nature 317:140-145.
Schiewe, M.C., J.G. Howard, L.S. Stuart, K.L. Goodrowe and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) for superovulation of sheep. Proceedings: Inter. Embryo Trans. Soc., Theriogenology 23:227.
Schiewe, M.C., M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Multiple ovulation induction in sheep with human menopausal gonadotropin. Fed. Proc. p. 2537.
Schiewe, M.C., P.M. Schmidt, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Toxicity potential of absorbed/retained ethylene oxide residues in culture dishes on embryo development in vitro. J. Animal Sci.
Schmidt, P.M., C.T. Hansen and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Viability of frozenthawed mouse embryos is affected by genotype. Biol. Reprod. 32:507514.
Schmidt, P.M., M.C. Schiewe and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Variables influencing post-thaw empryo survival rates in mice. Proceedings: Inter. Embroy
Trans. Soc., Theriogonology 23:229.
Schmidt, P.M., M.C. Schiewe and D.E. Wildt. 1985. Comparative aspects of mouse embryo survival following thawing. Proceedings: Soc. Develop. BOWS Sps elif;
Wildt, D.E. 1985. Reproductive techniques of potential use in the artificial propagation of non-human primates. In: The Lion-Tailed Macaque: Status and Conservation, P.G. Heltue, ed. Alan R. Liss,
Inc., New York, pp. 161-194.

<<<Page: 161>>>

Wildt, D.E. and D.F. Lawler. 1985. Laparoscopic sterilization of the bitch and queen by uterine horn occlusion. Amer. J. Vet. Res. 46: 864-869.
Department of Conservation
Berger, J. and R. Rudman. 1985. Predation and interactions between coyotes and feral horse foals. J. Mammal. 66(2):401-402.
Blohowiak, C. C. and P. B. Siegel. 1985. Mate preferences by males from lines of Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) selected for mating frequence. 1. Preference among lines. Biology of Behavior, 10:87-95. .
Blohowiak, C. C. and P. B Siegel. 1985. Mate preferences by males form lines of Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) selected for mating frequency. 2. Preference among plumage colors. Biology of Behavior 10:97-103.
Blohowiak, C. C., T. L. DeSanto, Y. R. Lin, and C. Y. Lin. 1985. Diurnal, premating, and postmating testosterone levels in roosters genetically selected for mating frequency. Poultry Science, 64:1028-1030.
Blohowiak, C. C., D. J. Zelanka, and P. B. Siegel. 1985. Ontongeny of aggressive-secual behavior between males in lines of Japanese quail (Coturnix cotrunix japonica) selected for male mating frequency. Journal of Comparative Psychology, 99:30-34.
Pfeifer, S. 1985. Flehmen and dominance among captive adult female scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx damah). J. Mammal. 66(1):160-163.
Stuwe, M., and HK Hendrichs. 1984. Organization of roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) in an open field habitat. Zeit. fur Saugetierkunde 49(6):359-667. fi
Wemmer, C. 1985. Black-footed ferret management and research: views of a zoo biologist. In: Black-footed Ferret Workshop Proceedings, Pp. 31.1-31.10, (S. H. Anderson and D. B. Ankley, eds), Wyoming Fish and Game Department, Laramie, Wyoming.

<<<Page: 162>>>

Department of Pathology
Bush, M., Montali, R. J., Phillips, L. G., Citano, S. B., Bock, G. and Ruley, E. J. 1984. Anemia and renal failure in a Giant Panda JAVMA, 185(11):1435-1437.
Bush, M., Montali, R. J., Reid, F. 1985. Clinical trials with killed rabies vaccine in zoo mammals Symposium on Immunology of Zoo Animals, Riverbanks Zoological Park, S.C. (Abstract).
Dein, F. J. 1984. Laboratory Manual of Avian Hematology. Association of Avian Veterinarians.
Dein, F. J., Wilson, A., and Montali, R. J. 1984. Experimental infection and diagnosis of avian tuberculosis Proceedings of AAZV, Louisville (Abstract).
Montali, R. J., Allen, G. P., Bryans, J. T., and Bush, M. 1984. Equine Herpesvirus Type-1 (EHV-1) in exotic equidae. Abstracts/proceedings, American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Louisville, pp. 100-109.
Montali, R. J., Bartz, C., Bush, M., and Grate, S. 1984/1985. Viral diseases of nondomesticated carnivores. In: Viral Infections cf Vertebrates, editor-in-chief, Horzinek, N. Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company, Amsterdan.
Montali, R. J., R.A. Freeman, L. Collins, C. Wemmer, and M. Bush. 1985. Pathology survey of captive cervids at the National Zoological Park. Proceedings: 27th International Symposium for the Diseases of Zoo Animals, Turin, pp. 17-28.
Montali, R. J., Phillips, L., and Appel, M. J. G. 1985. Canine distemper in exotic carnivores: Update on vaccination procedures Symposium on Immunology of Zoo and Wild Animals. Riverbanks Zoological Park, S. C. (Abstract).
Montali, R. J., Reid, F., Sanders, G., Freeman, R., and Bush, M. 1984.
Monitoring a raccoon rabies epizootic from Northern Virginia to Washington, D.C. In: Proc of the North American Symposium on Rabies in Wildlife. The John Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health and Centers for Disease Control, In Press.
Nichols, D., and Montali, R. J. 1985. Atherosclerosis in zoo birds. Laboratory Investigations, 152:48A-49A (Abstract).
Shaw, M., Montali, R. J., and Bush, M. 1984. Streptococcus zooepidemicus in small carnivorous mammals fed uncooked horse meat. Journal of Zoo Animal medicine, 15:(4)161-164.
Wells, M. Y. and Montali, R. J. 1985. Pasteurellosis in Southern Potoroos (Potorous apicalis). Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, 16:21-25.

<<<Page: 163>>>

Department of Zoological Research
Ballou, J. D. "Strategies for maintaining genetic diversity in captive populations through reproductive technology." Zoo Biology. 1984 3:3311-323.
Bekoff, M., T. J. Daniels and J. Gittleman. Life history patterns and the comparative social ecology of carnivores. Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics. 15(1984):191-232.
Blohowiak, C. and H. P. Van Krey. "Time of mating behavior by males from lines of chickens selected for high and low mating frequency." Poultry Sci. 1984 63:1677-1678.
Blohowiak, C. and P. B. Siegel. "Plumage phenotypes and mate preferences in Japanese quail. 2. Sexual imprinting." Behav. Proc. 1984 8:255-275.
Boness, DL J. "Activity budget of male grey seals, Halichoerus grypus." Mammal. 1984 65:291-297.
Boness, D. J., 0. T. Oftedal and K. A. Ono. "Maternal investment and pup development in the California sea lion on San Nicolas: Some preliminary results." Proc. Biennial Mugu Lagoon/San Nicolas Island. Ecol. Res. Symp.: 3:151-169.
Crockett, C. M. "Emigration by female red howler monkeys and the case for female competition." In Female Primates: Studies by Women Primatologists, ed. Meredith Small, pp. 159-173. Alan Liss Inc., New York, 1984.
Crockett, C. M. "Population studies of red howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus)." National Geographic Research. 1985. 1(2):264-273.
Crockett, C. M. and R. Sekulic. "Infanticide in red howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus)." In Infanticide: Comparative and Evolutionary Perspectives, eds. G Hausfater, S. Blaffer Hrdy, pp. 173-191.Aldine Press, New York, 1984.
Cunningham, B. "Habitat preference in house crickets, Acheta domesticus." Animal Keepers' Forum. 1984 11:342-344.
Davidar, P. "Feeding territories of the small sunbird (Nectarinia minima)." J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soc. 1984.
Davidar, P. "Ecological interactions between south Indian mistletoes and their avian pollinators." J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soe. 1984.
Dietz, James M. "Chrysocyon brachyurus. Mammalian Species No. 234." The American Society of Mammalogists. 1985 pp. 1-14.

<<<Page: 164>>>

rl co
Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. A study of social evolution: The influence of environment, behavior, and kinship on the demography of a opulation of toque monkeys. National Geo. Soc. Research Report, (1984) pp. 171-182.
Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. "Toque macaque food calls: Semantic communicaton concerning food distribution in the environment." Anim. Behav. 1984 32: 470-477.
Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. "The influence or cyclones on the dry evergreen forest of Sri Lanka." Biotropica. 1985 17(1):1-14.
Dittus, Wolfgang P. J. "The influence of leaf-monkeys on their feeding trees in a cyclone-disturbed environment." Biotropica. 1985 17(2): 100-106.
Frazier, J.. "Records of cetaceans from Kenya." African Journal of Ecology. 1984 21(2):115-118.
Frazier, J. "The Marine turtles situation in the East Pacific." CDC Newsletter. 1984 2(1):7-9.
Frazier, J. "Analisis estadistico de las tortugas golfinas Lepidochelys olivacea (Eschscholtz) de Oaxaca, Mexico." Ciencia Pesquera. 1984 4249-75.
Frazier, J. "Marine turtles in the Seychelles and adjacent territories." In Biogeography and Ecology of the Seychelles Islands, ed. D. R. Stoddart, pp. 417-468. Junk, The Hague, 1984.
Frazier, J. Contemporary problems in sea turtle biology and conservation The urgent need for regional cooperation. Bulletin of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Special Publication, Cochin, 18 (1984) :77-91.
Frazier, J. "Tetracycline as an in vivo label in bones of green turtles, Chelonia mydas (L.)." Herpetologica. 1985 41(2):228-234. Frazier, J. "A review of in vivo labels of studies of age determination and growth in amphibians and reptiles." Herpetologice. 1985 . 41(2):222-227.
Frazier, J. and J. F. Eisenberg. "A leatherback turtle feeding in the wild." Journal of Herpetologica. 1984 17(1):81-82.
Frazier, J. and K. Kranz. "Predation on tortoises by antelopes: Angolan legends regarding Kinixys belliana." Bulletin of the British Herpetological Society. 1984 8:58-59.
Frazier, J. and S. Salas. "Tortugas marinas en Chile." Boletin del Museo Nacional de Historia Natural de Chile. 1984. 39:63-73.
Frazier, J. and S Salas. "Tortugas Marinas en la Costa Peruana." Boletin de Lima. 1984. 5(30):13.

<<<Page: 165>>>

Frazier, Jd. and S. Salas. "The status of marine turtles in the Egyptian Red Sea." Biological Conservation. 1984. 30:41-67.
Frazier, J., K. Kranz, E. Glumak and J. Toah. Geographic distribution: Pelusioa niger. SSAR Herp. Review, 15(3):77.
Gittleman, J. L. "Functions of communal care in mammals." In Evolution: Essays in Honor of John Maynard Smith, eds. P. Greenwood, P. Harvey and M. Slatkin, pp. 187-205. Cambridge Univ. Press, 1984.
Gradwohl, J. A. and R. Greenberg. "Search behavior of the checker-throated antwren foraging in aerial leaf litter." Behav. Ecol. Sociobiol. 1984 15:281-285.
Grand, T. I. "Motion economy within the canopy: four strategies for mobility." In Adaptations for Foraging in Non-Human Primates, eds. J. G. H. Cant and P. S. Rodman, pp. 54-72. Columbia Univ. Press.
Greenberg, R. "The winter exploitation systems of bay-breasted and chestnut-sided warblers in Panama." Univ. Calif. Publ. Zool. 1984 116:1-107.
Greenberg, R. "Neophobia in the foraging site selection of a neotroical migrant bird: an experimental study. " Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. (USA). 1984 81:3778-3780.
Greenberg, R. "Differences in feeding neophobia between two species of tropical migrant warblers (Dendroica pennsylvanica and D. castanea)." J. Comp. Psych. 1984 98:131-136.
Harvey, P. H. and K. Ralls. "Homage to the null weasel." In Evolution, eds. P. J. Greenwood, M. Slatin and P. Harvey, pp. 155-171. Cambridge Univ. Press, 1985.
Hodges, J. K., D. J. Bevan, M. Celma, J. P. Hearn, D. M. Jones, D. G. Kleiman, J. A. Knight and H. D. Moore. "Aspects of the reproductive endocrinology of the female giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) in captivity with special reference to the detection of ovulation and pregnancy." J. Zool., London. 1984 Vol. 203:253-267.
Kleiman, D. G "Review of J. H. Wolfheim, Primates of the World: ‘Distribution, Abundance and Conservation." American Scientist, Univ. of Washington Press, Seattle. 1983 72:402.
Kleiman, D. G@ "Implications of monogamy for infant social development in mammals." In Beyond the Dyad, ed. M. Lewis, pp. 91-108. Plenum Press, New York, 1984.
Kleiman, D. G. "Conservation Strategies." Zoogoer. 1984 13(3):8. Kleinman, D. G "The National Zoo's role in an international primate
conservation program." IUCN/SSC Primate Specialist Group Newsletter. 1984 4:45-H6,

<<<Page: 166>>>

Kleiman, D. G. Review of D. M. Taub (ed.), Primate Paternalism. Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York, 441 pp. Science, 227 (No. 4684) (1985) :288.
Kleiman, D. G@ "Criteria for the evaluation of zoo research projects." Zoo Biology. 1985 4:93-98.
Kleiman, D.'G. and J. Seidensticker. Review of G. S. Schaller, et. al., Giant Pandas of Wolong. Univ. of Chicago Press, 298 pp. Seience, 228 (1985):4701.
Kleiman, D. G., B. Beck and R. Hoage. "Golden lion tamarins successfully released." AAZPA Newsletter. 1985 26:April.
Kohn, F., M. Roberts, A. Keppel, E. Maliniak and M. Deal. "Management and husbandry of the western tarsier, Tarsius bancanus, at the National Zoological Park." Animal Keepers Forum. 1984 11:468-478.
Koontz, F. W. "Sternal gland scent communication in the Rufous elephantshrew, Elephantus rufescens, with additional observations on behavior and reproduction in captivity." , Univ. of Maryland, College Park. 1984.
Kranz, K. R. “Pair bonding and scent marking behavior in captive dik-dik, Madoqua kirki (Artiodactyla: Bovidae)." Review of ‘Animal Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution' by C. J. Barnard. Quart. Rev. Biol., 59 (1984):99-100.
Lumpkin, S. and K. R. Kranz. "Cephalophus sylvicultor." Mammalian Species. American Society of Mammalogists. 1984 225:1-17.
Macdonald, D. W., K. Kranz and K. T. Aplin. "Behavioral, anatomical and chemical aspects of olfactory communication amongst capybaras (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), (Rodentia, Hystricomorpha). J. Zool. 1984 202:341-360.
McDade, L. and P. Davidar. "Determinants of fruit and seed set in Pavyonia lasypetala." Oecologia. 1984.
Montali, R., M. Roberts, R. Freeman and M. Bush. "Pathology of red pandas, Ailurus fulgens." In One Medicine, eds. 0. Ryder, and M. Byrd, pp. 128-140. Springer-Verlag, 1984.
O'Brien, S., D. Goldman, J. Knight, H. Moore, D. Wildt, M. Bush, R. Montali and D. G. Kleiman. "Giant panda paternity." Science. 1984 223:1127-1128.
Oftedal, O. T. "Body size and reproductive strategy as correlates of milk energy yield in lactating mammals." Acta Zoologica Fennica. 1984 171: 183-186.

<<<Page: 167>>>

Oftedal, O. T. "Lactation in the dog: Milk composition and intake by puppies." J. of Nutrition. 1984 113:2096-2106.
Oftedal, O. T. "Milk composition, milk yield and energy output at peak lactation. A comparative review." In Physiological Strategies of Lactation, eds. M. Peaker, R. G. Bernon and C. H. Knight, pp. 33-85. Academic Press, New York, 1984.
Oftedal, 0. T. and D. J. Boness. "Fish quality: The net result." Proc. © Amer. Assoc. Zoo. Vet. 1984 47-51.
Oftedal, O. and D. J. Boness. "Considerations in the use of fish as food." In Proceedings of the 3rd Annual Dr. School Conf. on Nutrition of Captive Wild Animals. Lincoln Park Zoological Gardens, Chicago, IL, 1984.
Ralls, K. "Genetic management of zoo animals." Biologist. 1984 31:99102.
Ralls, K. The Biology and Management of an Extinct Species: Pere David's Deer by B. J. Beck and C. Wemmer. Quart. Review Biol., 59 (1984) :78-79.
Ralls, K. and K. Kranz. "Duikers." In Encyclopedia of Mammals, ed. D. Macdonald, pp. 556-559. Facts on File Pubs., New York, 1984.
Ralls, K. and Paul H. Harvey. "Geographic variation in size and sexual dimorphism of North American weasels." Biological Journal of the Linnean Society. 1985 25:119-167.
Ralls, K., H. K. Buechner, R. Kiltie and K. Kranz. "Behavior and
reproduction of captive bongo, Tragelaphus eurycerus." Zoo. Garten N.F., 1985 55:41-67.
Ralls, K., K. Kranz and B. Lundrigan. "Letter to the Editor: Mother-young behaviour in ungulates." Applied Animal Behaviour Science, 1985 14: 201-203.
Ralls, K., P. Fiorelli and S. Gish. "Vocalizations and vocal mimicry in captive harbor seals, Phoca vitulina.” Can. J. Zool. 1985 63(5):1050-1056. :
Roberts, M. and J. Gittleman. "Ailurus fulgens." Mammalian Species No. 222. Amer. Soc. of Mammalogists. 1984 222:1-8.
Roberts, M., E. Maliniak and M. Deal. "The reproductive biology of the rock cavy, Kerodon rupestris, in captivity: A study of reproductive adaptation in a trophic specialist." Mammalia. 1984 48:253-266.
Roberts, M., F. Kohn, A. Keppel, E. Maliniak and M. Deal. "Management and husbandry of the western tarsier, Tarsius Bancanus, at the National Zoological Park." Proc. AAZPA Regional Meetings. 1984 1984:588599.

<<<Page: 168>>>

Ross, W. D., T. I. Grand, G R. Marshall and A. D. Martin. "On human and animal geometry. VII Common. & Int'l Conf. of Sport, Phys. Ed., Recreation & Dance. The Kinesiological Sciences." Eds., M. Howell and B. Wilson, 7.
Shy, E. "Sympatry and allopatry of song in North American tanagers." Behav. Ecol. Sociobiol. 1984 15:189-195.
Shy, E. "The structure of song and its geographic variation in North American tanagers (Thraupinae: Piranga)." Oecologia. 1984 63:281285.
Shy, E. "The structure of song and its geographical variation in the scarlet tanager (Piranga olivacae)." Am. Midl. Nat. 1984 112:119130.
Sieber, 0. J. "Vocal communication in raccoons, (Procyon lotor)." Behaviour. 1984 90:80-113.
Sieber, 0. J. "Individual recognition of parental calls by bank swallow chicks (Riparia riparia)." Animal Behaviour. 1985 33:107-116.
Thompson, S. D. "Subspecific differences in metabolism, thermoregulation, and torpor in the western harvest mouse Reithrodontomys megalotis." Physiol. Zool. 1985 58(4):430-444.
Thompson, S. D. "Bipedal hopping and seed-dispersion selection by heteromyid rodents: the role of locomotion energetics." Ecology. 1985 66:220-229.
Zullinger, E. M., R. E. Ricklefs, K. H. Redford and G. M. Mace. "Fitting Sigmoidal equations to mammalian growth curves." J. Mammal. 1984 75:607-636.

<<<Page: 169>>>

Abreu, V. J.; Dalgarno, A.; Yee, J. H.; Chakrabarti, S.; and Solomon, S. E. “The O1 989-ATropical Nightglow.” Geophysical Research Letters 11(1984):569.
Abreu, V. J.; Skinner, W. R.; Hayes, P. B.; and Yee, J.-H. “Optical Effects of SpacecraftEnvironment Interactions: Spectrometric Observations by the DE-B Satellite.” Spacecraft and Rockets 22(1985):177.
Armstrong, J. T.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Barrett, A. H. “VLA Observations of Smooth, Rapidly Rotating NHzj in the SgrA ‘15 kms} Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):159.
Asaro, C. and Dalgarno, A. “Bound Vibrational Levels of the Two Lowest 'Z* States of LiF.” Chemical Physics Letters 118(1985): 64°
Avrett, E. H. “Recent Thermal Models of the Chromosphere.” In Chromosphertc Diagnostics and Modeling, ed. B. W. Lites, p. 67. Sunspot, New Mexico: National Solar Observatory, 1985.
Bailyn, C.; Rosner, R.; and Tsinganos, K. “On the Solution Topologies of Polytropic Winds.” Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):696.
Baliunas, S. L. “Outer Atmospheres of Cool Stars Observed with IUE.” In Future of Ultraviolet Astronomy Based on Siz Years of IVE Research, eds. J. M. Mead, R. D. Chapman and Y. Kondo, p. 64. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2349, 1984.
Baliunas, S. L., and Guinan, E. F. “The Old Galactic Cluster NGC 188 and the Origin of the W Ursae Nijons type Binaries.” utronhyeccal Journal 294(1985):294.
Baliunas, S. L.; Horne, J. H.; Porter, A.; Duncan, D.; Frazer, J.; Lanning, H.; Misch, A.; Waele Jes Noyes, R.; Gerace, D.; arid Vachon: VAY AS eMme: Series Makstrements of Chreneestoc Ca I H and K Brnission in Cool Stars and the Search for Differential Rotation.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):310.
Band, D. L., and Grindlay, J. E. “On the Origin of X-ray Variability of SS433.” Astrophysical Journal 285(1984):702.
Barnes, A.; Goldstein, M.; Hollweg, J.; Mariska, J.; Matthaeus, W.; Smith, C.; Smiths, E.; Stein, R.; Withbroe, G.; and Woo, R. “MHD Waves and Turbulence in the Sun and Interplanetary Medium.” In Solar Terrestrial Physics: Present and Future, eds. D. M Butler and K. Papadopoulos, p. 4-3. College Park, Maryland: NASA Reference Publication 1120, 1984.
Bartel, N. “Angular Diameter Determinations of Radio Supernovae and the Distance Scale.” In Proceedings, Supernova as Distance Indicators, Lecture Notes in Physics, No. 224, ed. N. Bartel, p. 107. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1985.
Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. L.; Shapiro, I. I.; Cappallo, R. J.; Rogers, A. E. E.; and Whitney, A. R. “Pulsar Astrometry via VLBI.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):318.
Berger, M., and Field, G. B. “The Topological Properties of Magnetic Helicity.” Journal of Fluid Mechanics 147(1984):133.
Biermann, P.; Schmidt, G. D.; Liebert, J.; Stockman, H. S.; Tapia, S.; Kuhr, H.; Strittmatter, P. A.; West, S.; and Lamb, D. Q. “The New Eclipsing Magnetic Binary System E1112+182.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):303.
Biermann, P.; Strom, R.; and Bartel, N. “NGC 6212: An Elliptical Galaxy with a Highly Active Nucleus.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 147(1985):L27.
Birkinshaw, M., and Davies, R. L. “The Orientations of the Rotation Axes of Elliptical Galaxies. I. Radio Morphologies of Bright Elliptical Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):32.
Black, J. H., and Smith, P. L. “Interstellar Oz, I: Abundance, Excitation, and Prospects for Detection of ©0180 at Radio Frequencies.” Astrophysical Journal 277(1984):562.
Blair, W. P.; Fesen, R. A.; and Kirshner, R. P. “New Views of the Cygnus Loop.” Mercury 13(1984):16.
Blair, W. P., and Kirshner, R. P. “Improved Optical Spectrophotometry of Supernova Remnants in M33.” Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):582.
Blair, W. P.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Winkler, P. F. “A Powerful Young Supernova Remnant in Another Galaxy.” Mercury 14(1985):80.
Bodo, G.; Ferrari, A.; Massagila, S.; Kalkofen, W.; and Rosner, R. “Equilibrium Model of Thin Magnetic Flux Tubes.” Proceedings of a Course and Workshop on Plasma Astrophysics (Varenna, Italy), p 277. European Space Agency SP-207, 1984.

<<<Page: 170>>>

Bodo, G.; Ferrari, A.; Massaglia, S.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S. “MHD Thermal Instabilities in Cool Inhomogeneous Atmospheres.” Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):798.
Bonin, K. D.; MclIlrath, T. J.; and Yoshino, K. “High-Resolution Laser and Classical Spectroscopy of Xenon Autoionization.” Journal of the Optical Society of America A 2(1985):1275.
Bothun, G.; Aaronson, M.; Schommer, R.; Mould, J.; Huchra, J.; and Sullivan III, W. “A Catalog of Radio, Optical and Infrared Observations of Spiral Galaxies in Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal Supplements 57(1985):423.
Brainerd, J. J., and Lamb, D. Q. “Orientations of AM Her Stars from THeir Polarization Properties: The Case of the Missing AM Her Stars.” In Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binartes, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 247. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.
Cameron, A. G. W. “Star Formation and Extinct Radioactivities.” Icarus 60(1984):416.
. “Formation of the Prelunar Accretion Disk.” Icarus 62(1985):319.
Cameron, A. G. W.; Cowan, J. J.; and Truran, J. W. “Neutron Source Requirements for the Helium RProcess.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on Challenges and New Developments in Nucleosynthesis, eds. W. D. Arnett and J. W. Truran, p. 190. Chicago, Hlinois: University of Chicago Press, 1985.
Cantu, A. M.; Parkinson, W. H.; Grisendi, T.; and Tagliaferri, G. “Absorption Spectrum of Atomic Chlorine: 3p° ? PS 2-1/2 — 3p4 ns,nd.” Physica Scripta 31(1985):579.
Carney, B. W., and Latham, D. W. “A New Halo Survey.” In [.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 89. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; and Straizys, V. “Kinematics of Halo Red Giants.” In [.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 177. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Cawley, M. F., and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma Ray Absorption and the Distance to Cygnus X-3.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 133(1984):80.
Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Hillas, A. M.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Mackeown, P. K.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Application of Imaging to Atmospheric Cherenkov Techniques.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 3(1985):453.
Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Gorham, P. W.; Kenny, S.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Hercules X-1: Pulsed Gamma Rays Detected above 150 GeV.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):119.
Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Mackeown, P. K.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Observations of the Crab Nebula at Energies >4.1011.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):131.
Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Mackeown, P. K.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search for Gamma Rays above 400 GeV from Geminga.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):173.
Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search for Gamma Rays from M31 and Other Extragalactic Objects.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):264.
Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing, D. F.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; Weekes, T. C.; and Williams, R. J. “Variability in the High Energy Gamma-Ray Emission from Cygnus X-3 over a Two-Year Period (1983-1984) at E > 4 x10? eV.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 1(1985):87.
Chaffee, F. H., Jr.; Foltz, C. B.; Roser, H.-J.; Weymann, R. J.; and Latham, D. W. “High-Resolution Spectroscopy of Selected Absorption Lines Toward Quasi-Stellar Objects. II. The Metal-to-Hydrogen Ratio in a ‘Metal-Free’ Cloud Toward $5 0015+81.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):362.
Chance, K. V., and Traub, W. A. “An Upper Limit for Stratospheric Hydrogen Peroxide.” Journal of Geophysical Research 89(1984):11655.
Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Freeman, D. E. “Herzberg Continuum Cross Section of Oxygen in the Wavelength Region 193.5-204.0 nm and Band Oscillator Strengths of the (0,0) an (1,0) Schumann-Runge Bands.” Canadian Journal of Physics 62(1984):1752.

<<<Page: 171>>>

Clark, T. A.; Corey, B. E.; Davis, J. L.; Elgered, G.; Herring, T. A.; Hinteregger, H. F.; Knight, C. A.; Levine, J. L.; Lunqvist, G.; Ma, C.; Nesman, E. F.; Phillips, R. B.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Ronnang, B. O.; Ryan, J. W.; Schupler, B. R.; Shaffer, D. B.; Shapiro, I. I; Vandenberg, N. R.; Webber, J. C.; and Whitney, A. R. “Precision Geodesy Using the Mark III Very-Long-Baseline Interferometer System.” Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Geoscience and Report Sensing Transactions GE-23(1985):438.
Cooper, D. L.; Kirby K.; and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Charge Transfer and Radiative Association of Helium Ions with Neon Atoms.” Canadian Journal of Physics 62(12)(1984):1622.
Cooper, D. L.; Yee, J. H.; and Dalgarno, A. “Energy Transfer in enHydrogen Collisions.” Planetary and Space Science, 32(1984):82.
Cotton, W. D.; Geldzahler, B. J.; Marcaide, J. M.; Shapiro, I. I.; Sanroma, M.; and Ruis, A. “VLBI Observations of the Polarized Radio Emission from the Quasar 3C 454.3.” Astrophysical Journal 286(1984):503.
Cowan, J. J.; Cameron, A. G. W.; and Truran, J. W. “R-Process Nucleosynthesis in Dynamic HeliumBurning Environments.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):656.
Croswell, K., and Dalgarno A. “The Abundance of Interstellar OD.” Astrophysics Journal 289(1985):618.
da Costa, L. N.; Nunes, M. A.; and Geary, J. “The Observatorio Nacional Intensified Photon-Counting Reticon Detector.” Publicacoes do Observatorio Nactonal No.5 (1985).
Dainty, J. C.; Pipher, J. L.; Lacasse, M. G.; and Ridgway, S. T. “Spatially Resolved Infrared Observations of the Red Rectangle.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):530.
Dalgarno, A., and Lepp, S. “Deuterium Fractionation Mechanisms in Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal Letters 287(1984):L47.
Dickel, H. R.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Wright, M. C. H. “The Molecular Core Associated with DR21.” Astrophysical Journal 286(1984):503.
Duncan, D. K.; Baliunas, S. L.; Noyes, R. W.; Vaughan, A. H.; Frazer, J.; and Lanning, H. “Chromospheric Emission and Rotation of the Hyades Lower Main Sequence.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 96(1984):707.
Dupree, A. K.; Avrett, E. H.; Hartmann, L.; and Smith, G. “Ultraviolet and Optical Observations of Metal Deficient Red Giants and Chromospheric Models.” In Fourth European IUE Conference, p. 191. European Space Agency SP-218, 1984.
Dupree, A. K.; Sonneborn, G.; Baliunas, S. L.; Giunan, E.F.; Hartmann, L.; and Hayes, D. “Betelgeuse at Maximum Luminosity.” In Future of Ultraviolet Astronomy Based on Siz Years of IVE Research, eds. J. M. Mead, R. D. Chapman, and Y. Kondo, p. 462. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2349, 1984.
Elvis, M. “Einstein IPC Spectra of Quasars: First Results.” In Compact Galactic and Eztragalactic X-ray Sources, eds. Y. Tananka and W. H. G. Lewin, p. 291. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, 1985. °
Elvis, M., and Lawrence, A. “X-ray Spectra of Active Galaxies and Quasars.” In Astrophysics of Active Galazies and Quast-Stellar Objects, ed. J. S. Miller, p. 289. University Science Books, 1985.
Elvis, M.; Wilkes, B.; and Tananbaum, H. “The Diversity of Soft X-ray Spectra in Quasars.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):357.
Fabbiano, G., and Trinchieri, G. “A Statistical Analysis of the Einstein Normal Galaxy Sample: I. Spiral and Irregular Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):430.
Fabricant, D.; Rybicki, G. B.; and Gorenstein, P. “X-Ray Measurements of the Nonspherical Mass Distribution in the Cluster of Galaxies A2256.” Astrophysical Journal 286(1984):186.
Falco, E. E.; Gorenstein, M. V.; and Shapiro, I. I. “On Model-Dependent Bounds on Ho from Gravitational Images: Applications to Q0957+561A,B.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 289(1985):L1.
Farmer, C. B.; Carli, B.; Bonetti, A.; Carlotti, M.; Dinelli, B. M.; Fast, H.; Louisnard, N.; Alamichel, C.; Mankin, W.; Coffey, M.; Nolt, I. G.; Murcray, D. G.; Goldman, A.; Stokes, G.; Johnson, D.; Traub, W.; Chance, K.; Zander, R.; Delbouille, L.; and Roland, G. “Balloon Intercomparison Campaign: Results of Remote Sensing Measurements of HCl.” In Proceedings of Quadrennial Ozone Symposium eds. C.S. Zerefos and A. Ghazi. Hingham, Massachusetts: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

<<<Page: 172>>>

Faucherre, M; Lacasse, M. G.; Nisenson, P.; Reasenberg, R. D.; Shao, M.; Stachnik, R. V.; and Traub, W. A. “A 50-Meter Michelson Stellar Interferometer on a Space Platform.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on High Angular Resolution Optical Interferometry from Space, eds. P. B. Boyce and R. D. Reasenberg, Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 16(1984):793.
Faucherre, M.; Stachnik, R.; and Aram, S. “Numerical Experiments in Imaging Reconstruction.” In Proceedings of a Colloquium, Kilometric Optical Arrays in Space (Cargese, Corsica), p. 121. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEK, 1985.
Fazio, G. G.; Bleeker, J. A. M.; deKorte, P. A. J.; and Caldwell, J. J. (Editors) Astronomy from Space, vol. 5, Advances in Space Research. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1985.
Feretti, L; Gioia, I. M.; Giovannini, G.; Gregorini, L.; and Padrielli, L. “High Resolution Radio and X-ray Observations of Abell 115.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 139(1984):50.
Ferrari, A.; Trussoni, E.; Rosner, R.; and Tsinganos, K. “On Wind-Type Flows in Astrophysical Jets. I, The Initial Relativistic Acceleration.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):397.
Fesen, R. A.; Blair, W. P.; and Kirshner, R. G. “Optical EmissionLine Properties of Evolved Galactic Supernova Remnants.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):29.
Field, G. B., and Chaisson, E. The Invisible Universe. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Birkhauser, 1984.
Fireman, E. L. “Radioactive Dating of Byrd Core and Allan Hills Ice.” Antarctic Journal of the United States 18(5)(1984):111.
Fireman, E. L.; Cleveland, B. T.; Davis, R.; and Rowley, J. K. “Cosmic-Ray Depth Studies at the Homestake Mine with °°K°7 Ar Detectors.” In Proceedings of the American Institute of Physics, vol. 126, p. 22. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1984.
Fireman, E. L.; Jull, A. T. J.; Donahue, D. J.; and Zabel, T. H. “Carbon-14 Ages of Antarctic Meteorites with Accelerator and Small-Volume Counting Techniques.” Journal of Geophysical Research Supplement 89(1984): 329.
Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and DeFaccio, M. “X-ray Survey of the Virgo Cluster.” In ESO Workshop on the Virgo Cluster, eds. D. G. Richter and B. Binggeli, p. 323. European Southern Observatory Publication, 1985.
Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and Tucker, W. “Hot Gaseous Coronae Around Early-Type Galaxies.” The Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):102.
Franklin, F. A., and Aksnes, K. “Predictions of Mutual Phenomena of the Galilean Satellites.” Icarus 60(1984):180.
. “Upcoming Mutual Events of Jupiter’s Moons.” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):116.
Freeman, D. E.; Yoshino, K.; Esmond, J. R.; and Parkinson, W. H. “High Resolution Absorption Cross Section Measurements of SO, at 213 K in the Wavelength Region 172-240 nm.” Planetary and Space Science 32(1984):1125.
. “Absolute Absorption Cross Section Measurements of Ozone.” In Atmospheric Ozone, eds. C.S. Zerefos and A. Ghazi, p. 622. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Garay, G.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. “VLA Observations of Recombination Lines of Compact HII Regions Associated with OH Maser Emission.” Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):681.
Geller, M. J.; de Lapparent, V.; and Kurtz, M. J. ‘The ShaneWirtanen Counts.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 287(1984): L55.
Giampapa, M. S., and Rosner, R. “The Appearance of Magnetic Flux on the Surfaces of the Early Main-Sequence F Stars.” The Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 286(1984):L19.
Gingerich, O. “Astronomical Institutions—Introduction.” In The General History of Astronomy, ed. O. Gingerich, p. 111. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1984.
. “The 1784 Autobiography of William Herschel.” Harvard Library Bulletin 32(1984):73.
. “The Phases of Venus in 1610.” Journal for the History of Astronomy 15(1984):209.
. “Reflections on a Seminar on the Recording and Preservation of Astronomical Manuscripts.”
Bollettino del Centro Internazionale Beltrame di Storia dello Spazio e del Tempo (Numbers 3-
4)(1984):79.
. “The International Copernicus Census and the New Paduan Copies of the De Revolutionibus.”

<<<Page: 173>>>

Bollettino del Centro Internazionale Beltrame di Storia dello Spazio e del Tempo (Numbers 3-
4)(1984):145.
. “The Discovery of the Spiral Arms of the Milky Way.” In The Proceedings of I.A.U. Symposium
No. 106, The Milky Way, eds. H. Van Woerden, R. J. Allen, and W. B. Burton, p. 59. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
. “Did Copernicus Owe a Debt to Aristarchus?” Journal for the History of Astronomy 16(1985):36.
. *The Shapley-Curtis Debate.” In Universe, ed. W. J. Kaufman III, p. 492. New York: W. H.
Freeman and Co., 1985.
“Introduction.” In The Astronomical Scrapbook: Skywatchers, Pioneers, and Seekers in
Astronomy, by J. Ashbrook, p. v. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Corporation, 1984.
. “The Accuracy of Ephemerides, 1500-1800.” Vistas in Astronomy 28(1985):339.
. “The Astronomy of Alfonso the Wise.” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):206.
. “Ptolemaic Astronomy for an Emperor’s Eyes.” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):406.
. “Robert Trumpler and the Dustiness of Space.” Sky and Telescope 70(1985):213.
Gingerich, O., and Welther, B. “Some Puzzles of Ptolemy’s Star Catalogue.” Sky and Telescope 67(1984):421. ; :
Gioia, I. M. “From the Universe at Large to the Stars Near Us: An X-ray Survey at Faint Fluxes.” In X-ray Astronomy 784, eds. M. Oda and R. Giacconi, p. 349. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Science and Astronautical Science, 1985.
Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Maccagni, D.; and Stocke, J. “On the Surface Density of X-ray Selected BL Lac Objects.” In Proceedings of the Garching Meeting on X-ray and UV Emission from Active Galactic Nuclei, eds. W. Brinkmann and J. Trumper, MPE Report 184(1984):135.
Goldberg, Z. M., and Reasenberg, R. D. “Venus Gravity West of Beta Regio.” Icarus 62(1985):129.
Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Cohen, N. L.; Corey, B. E.; Porcas, R. W.; Falco, E. E.; Bonometti, R. J.; Preston, R. A.; Rius, A.; and Whitney, A. R. “The Milliarcsecond Images of Q0957+561.” Astrophysical Journal 287(1984):538.
Grindlay, J. E. “Studies of Galactic X-ray Sources.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Thermal and Very High Temperature Phenomena in X-ray Astronomy, eds. G. C. Perola and L. Salvati, p. 17. Rome, Italy: Istituto Astronomico (1985).
“X-ray Sources as Dynamical Tracers in Globular Clusters.” In Dynamics of Star Clusters, Proceedings of IAU Symposium 113, eds. J. Goodman and P. Hutt, p. 89. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Grindlay, J. E., and Hertz, P. “Galactic Bulge X-ray Burst Sources from Disrupted Globular Clusters?” In Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-ray Binaries, eds. D. R. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 79. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Grossi, M. D., and Tacconi, G. “Editorial for Special Issue on Beam-Forming.” IEEE Journal of Oceanic Engineering OE-10(3) (1985):197.
Gullahorn, G. E.; Fuligni, F.; and Grossi, M. D. “Gravity Gradiometry from the Tethered Satellite System” IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing GH-23(1985):531.
Guth, A. H. “The Inflationary Universe.” In Shelter Island II (Proceedings), eds. R. Jackiw, N. Khuri, S. Weinberg, and E. Witten, p. 171. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press, 1985.
Gwinn, C. R.; Taylor, J. H.; Weisberg, J. M.; and Rawley, L. A. “The Parallax of PSR 0950+08 and the Local Interstellar Medium.” In J.A.U. Colloquium 81, The Local Interstellar Medium, eds. Y. Kondo, F. C. Bruhweiler, and B. D. Savage, p. 281. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2345, 1984.
Habbal, S. R., and Rosner, R. “Temporal Evolution of the Solar Wind and the Formation of a Standing Shock.” Journal of Geophysical Research 90(1985):199.
Harmon, J. K.; Campbell, D. B.; Head, J. W.; Bindschadler, D. L.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Mercury Radar Altimetry: A Preliminary Analysis.” Lunar and Planetary Science XV(1984):343.
Harnden, F. R., Jr. “X-rays from Non-Accreting Pulsars.” In Galactic and Extragalactic Compact X-ray Sources, (Proceedings of the Japan-U.S. Seminar), eds. Y. Tanaka and W. H. G. Lewin, p. 239. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, 1985.
Harris, D. E., and Johnson, H. M. “High Resolution X-ray Observations of Nearby Binary Systems: Flaring and Evidence for Unseen Companions.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):649.

<<<Page: 174>>>

Hartmann, L. “Winds from Pre-Main Sequence Stars.” In Comments on Astrophysics X(1984):97.
Hartmann, L.; Huchra, J. P.; and Geller, M. J. “How to Find Galaxies at High Redshift.” Astrophysical Journal 287(1984):487.
Hartmann, L.; Jordan, C.; Brown, A.; and Dupree, A. K. “On the Outer Atmospheres of Hybrid Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 296 (1985):576.
Haschick, A. D., and Ho, P. T. P. “Formation of OB Clusters: CO, NH3, and H2O Observations of the Distant HII Region Complex in $128.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):200.
Hazen-Liller, M. “Photoelectric Sequences Near Nine Galactic Globular Clusters.” Astronomical Journal 89(1984):1551.
. “The Variable Stars in the Field of the Globular Cluster NGC 6569.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):1807. ;
Herbold, G.; Ulmschneider, P.; Spruit, H. C.; and Rosner, R. “Propagation of Nonlinear Radiatively-Damped Longitudinal Waves Along Magnetic Flux Tubes.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 145(1985):157.
Ho, P. T. P.; Jackson, J. M.; Barrett, A. H.; and Armstrong, J. T. “Interactions Between the Continuum Sources in the Galactic Center and Their Immediate Molecular Environment.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):575.
Huchra, J. “On Contemporary Observational Cosmology: When Did It All Begin?” In Studies in Jewish Philosophy, IV, Academy for Jewish Philosophy, 1984.
. “The Virgo Cluster Redshift Survey.” In The Virgo Cluster, eds. O. Richter and B. Binggeli, p. 181. Garching, Germany: European Southern Observatory, 1985.
Huchra, J.; Gorenstein, M.; Kent, S.; Shapiro, I. I.; Smith, G.; Horine, E.; and Perley, R. *2237+0305: A New and Unusual Gravitational Lens.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):691.
Hughes, J. P., and Helfand, D. J. “Self-Consistent Models for the X-ray Emission from Supernova Remnants: Application to Kepler’s SNR.” The Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):544.
Hummer, D. G., and Rybicki, G. B. “The Sobolev Approximation for Line Formation with Continuous Opacity.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):258.
Johnson, B. C.; Smith, P. L.; and Knight, R. D. “The Radiative Lifetime of the °S3 Metastable Level of 07+.” Astrophysical Journal 281(1984):477.
Jones, C., and Forman, W. “Hot Gas in Early Type Galaxies.” In X-ray Astronomy ’84, eds. M. Oda and R. Giacconi, p. 355. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, 1985.
Kalkofen, W. “Ayres’ Bifurcated Solar Model.” In Chromospheric Diagnostics and Modelling, ed. B. W. Lites, p. 272. Sunsport, New Mexico: National Solar Observatory, 1985.
. “IAU Report on Numerical Methods in Radiative Transfer.” In Reports on Astronomy, p. 504.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
“Numerical Methods in Radiative Transfer.” In Progress in Stellar Spectral Line Formation
Theory, eds. J. E. Beckman and L. Crivellari, p. 153. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1985.
. “Partial versus Complete Linearization.” In Progress in Stellar Spectral Line Formation, eds. J. E. Beckman and L. Crivellari, p. 169. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Kalkofen, W.; Ulmschneider, P.; and Schmitz, F. “Apparent Solar Temperature Enhancement Due to Large Amplitude Waves.” Astrophysical Journal 287(1984):952.
Kalata, K. “A General Purpose Computer Configurable Television Area Detector for X-ray Diffraction Applications.” Methods in Enzymology 114(1985):486.
Kalata, K.; Murray, S. S.; and Chappell, J. H. “Configuration and Performance of a Television X-ray Detector System for Imaging and Diffraction Applications.” Advances in Electronic Electron Physics 64B(1985):509.
Kallne, E.; Kallne, J.; Dalgarno, A.; Marmar, E. S.; Rice, J. E.; and Pradhan, A. K. “Observations of Recombination Population of n=2 Excited States of Ar 16+ in Tokamak Plasmas.” Physical Review Letters 52(1984):2245.
Kent, S. M. “Photometry of Stars in the uvgr System.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 97(1985):165.
Kohl, J. L.; Gardner, L. D.; Lafyatis, G. P.; Young, A. R.; and Chutjian, A. “Photo-Ion Coincidence
Measurements of Dielectronic Recombination in C°+.” In Atomic Ezcitations and Recombination in

<<<Page: 175>>>

External Fields, eds. M. H. Nayfeh and C. Clar, p. 421. New York: Gordon and Breach Science Publisher, 1985.
Kenyon, S. J. “Physical Models for the UV Continua of Symbiotic Stars.” In Future of UV Astronomy Based on Siz Years of IVE Research, eds. J. M. Mead, R. D. Chapman, and Y. Kondo, p. 408. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2349, 1984.
“Accretion Disks in Symbiotic Stars and Their Relation to Cataclysmic Variables.” In
Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 417.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
. “Symbiotic Stars.” In Interacting Binaries, Proceedings of NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. P. P. Eggleton and J. E. Pringle, p. 179. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Kenyon, S. J., and Gallagher, J. S. “Spectroscopy of the Winds from Hubble-Sandage Stars in M31 and M33.” Astrophysical Journal 290(1985):542.
Kenyon, S. J.; Michalitsianos, A. G.; Lutz, J. H.; and Kafatos, M. “The 1984 Eclipse of the Symbiotic Binary SY Muscae.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 97(1985):268.
Kirshner, R. P. “Astrophysical Distances to Type II Supernovae.” In Supernova as Distances Indicators, ed. N. Bartel, p. 171. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1985.
. “Giant Voids in the Universe.” In Sctence Year 1985, p. 181. Chicago, Illinois: Encyclopedia Britannica, 1985.
Koch, D. “Using the ET for Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on Gamma-Ray and High Energy Gamma-Ray Experiments for the Space Station Era, eds. V. Jones and J. Wefel, p. 454. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University, 1985.
. “Results of a Study to Build a Gamma-Ray Telescope in an External Tank.” Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 3(1985):363.
Kurtz, M. J. “Progress in Automation Techniques for MK Classification.” The MK Process and Stellar Classification, ed. R. F. Garrison, p. 136. Toronto, Canada: David Dunlap Observatory, 1985. Kurtz, M.; Huchra, J. P.; Beers, T. C.; Geller, M. J.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccaccaro, T.; Schild, R. E.; and
Stauffer, J. R. “The X-ray Cluster Abell 744.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):1665.
Kurucz, R. L.; Furenlid, I.; Brault, J.; and Testerman, L. Solar Fluz Atlas from 296 to 1800 nm. Sunspot, New Mexico: National Solar Observatory, 1984.
Kwok, T. L.; Dalgarno, A.; and Posen, A. “Transition Probabilities of the B1L, — Ke System of Molecular Hydrogen.” Physics Review A 32(1985):646.
Lacasse, M. G., and Traub, W. A. “COSMIC Image Reconstruction.” In Colloquium on Kilometric Optical Arrays in Space, p. 133. Paris, France: European Space Agency, 1985.
Lamb, D. K.; Aly, J.-J.; Cook, M. C.; and Lamb, D. Q. “Synchronization of Magnetic White Dwarfs in Close Binary Systems.” In Cataclysmie Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Variables, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 237. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.
Lamb, D. Q. “Physics of Gamma-Ray Burst Spectra.” In High Energy Transients in Astrophysics, AIP Conference Proceedings No. 115, ed. S. E. Woosley, p. 512. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1984.
. “Recent Developments in the Theory of AM Her and DQ Her Stars.” In Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 179. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.
Lamb, D. Q.; Lattimer, J. M.; Pethick, C. J.; and Ravenhall, D. G. “Physical Properties of Hot, Dense Matter: The General Case.” Nuclear Physics A432(1985):646.
Lamb, D. Q., and Patterson, J. (Editors). Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binartes. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.
LaSala, J., and Kurtz, M. J. “A Fast, Reliable Spectral Rectification Technique.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 97(1985):605.
Latham, D. W. “Digital Stellar Speedometry.” In [.A.U. Colloqium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 21. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Latham, D. W.; Carney, B. W.; and Stefanik, R. P.; “A Search for Halo Binaries: The First Results.” In Proceedings of I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D.

<<<Page: 176>>>

W. Latham, p. 381. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Latham, D. W.; Hazen-Liller, M. L.; and Pryor, C. P. In Proceedings of I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 264. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Lawrence, A.; Ward, M. J.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Willner, S. P.; Carleton, N. P.; and Longmore, A. “1-20 wm Observations of Low Luminosity Active Nuclei.” Astrophysical Journal 291 (1985):117. Leopold, K. R.; Fraser, G. T.; Lin, F. J.; Nelson, D. D., Jr.; and Klemperer, W. “Microwave and Radiofrequency Stark Spectrum of ArHCN: A Highly Nonrigid Molecule.” Journal of Chemical
Physics 81(1984):4922.
Lepp, S.; McCray, R.; Shull, J. M.; Woods, D. T.; and Kallman, T. “Thermal Phases of Interstellar and Quasar Gas.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):58.
Lo, K. Y.; Backer, D. C.; Ekers, R. D.; Kellermann, I. I.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. “On the Size of the Galactic Center Compact Radio Source: Diameter 21 AU.” Nature 315(1985):124.
Maccacaro, T. “X-ray Surveys of Quasars with the Einstein Observatory, in X-ray and UV Emission from AGNs.” In Proceedings of the Garching Meeting on X-ray and UV Emission from Active Galactic Nuclei, eds. W. Brinkmann and J. Trumper, MPE Report 184(1984):63.
Maccacaro, T., and Gioia, I. M. “Extragalactic X-ray Sources Counts and Optical Identifications.” In Proceedings of Non-Thermal and Very High Temperature Phenomena in X-ray Astronomy, eds. G. T. Perola and M. Salvati, p. 147. Rome, Italy: Istituto Astronomico, 1985.
Malumuth, E. M., and Kirshner, R. P. “Dynamics of Luminous Galaxies. II. Surface Photometry and Velocity Dispersions of Brightest Cluster Members.” Astrophysical Journal 291(1985):8.
Maraschi, S.; Schwartz, D. A.; Tanzi, E. G.; and Treves, A. “Multifrequency Observations of the BL Lac Object PKS 0547-441.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):615.
Marcaide, J. M.; Bartel, N.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Corey, B. E.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Webber, J. C.; Clark, T. A.; Romney, J. D.; and Preston, R. A. “The Quasar 4C39.25 is Not Contracting.” Nature 314(1985):424.
Marcaide, J. M.; Shapiro, I. I.; Corey, B. E.; Cotton, W. D.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Romney, J. D.; Schild, R.; Ball, J.; Baath, L.; Bartel, N.; Cohen, N. L.; Clark, T. A.; Preston, R. A.; Ratner, M. I.; and Whitney, A. R. “On the Quasars 1038+528 A and B.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 142(1985):71.
Marsden, B. G. “Remarks on Cometary Astrometry.” In Cometary Astrometry, eds. D. K. Yeomans, R. M. West, R. S. Harrington, and B. G. Marsden, p. 27. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1984.
. “Nongravitational Effects.” In Cometary Astrometry, eds. D. K. Yeomans, R. M. West, R. S.
Harrington, and B. G. Marsden, p. 27. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1984.
. (editor and contributor). International Astronomical Union Circular Nos. 8995-4024, 1984;
International Astronomical Union Circular Nos. 4025-4086, 1985.
. (editor and contributor). Minor Planet Circular Nos. 9121-9814, 1984; Minor Planet Circular
Nos. 9815-9842, 1985.
. “Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.” International Information
Bulletin No. 58, (1985).
. “Annual Report of the Minor Planet Center.” International Astronomical Union Information
Bulletin No. 58, (1985):18.
. “Comets in 1979.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):106.
. “Orbits for Amateurs with a Microcomputer (review).” Sky and Telescope 69(1985):322.
. “Nongravitational Forces on Comets: The First Fifteen Years.” In Dynamics of Comets, eds.
A. Carusi and G. B. Valsecchi, p. 343. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
. “Supernovae Up Close.” In Supernovae as Distance Indicators, ed. N. Bartel, p. 222. Berlin:
Springer-Verlag, 1985.
. “Comets in 1980.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):156.
. “Magnetic Tape of Observations of Minor Planets and Comets.” Minor Planet Center, 373,847 entries.
Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. “Comets in 1977.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):81.

<<<Page: 177>>>

. “Comets in 1978.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):92.
“Initial Orbit Determination: The Pragmatist’s View.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):1541.
Marsden, B. G.; Green, D. W. E.; and Roemer, E. “Comets in 1976.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 26(1985):68.
Marvin, U. B., and Walker, D. “A Transient Heating Event in the History of a Highlands Trocolite from Apollo 12 Soin 12033.” In Proceedings of the 15th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference 90, C421. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Science Institute, 1985.
Marvin, U. B., and Lindstrom, M. M. “Geochemistry and Petrology of Clasts from North Ray Crater Breccia 67015.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVI 2(1985):495.
Mathieu, R. D. “The Structure and Internal Dynamics of Open Clusters.” In Dynamics of Star Clusters, eds. J. Goodman and P. Hut, p. 427. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
. “Radial Velocity Studies of the Internal Kinematics of Open Clusters.” In Proceedings I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 249. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Mathieu, R. D.; Hartmann, L.; and Latham, D.W. “Stellar Kinematics in Star-Forming Regions.” In I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 263. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Mathieu, R. D.; Stefanik, R. P.; and Latham, D. W. “The Binary Population of the Hyades.” In Proceedings I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 385. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Mattison, E. M.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and Shen, W. “Measurement and Interpretation of Hydrogen Maser Quality Parameters.” In Proceedings of 39th Annual Frequency Control Symposium, p. 72. Ft. Monmouth, New Jersey: U.S. Army Electronics Laboratory, 1985.
Mattison, E. M.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and Jacobs, S. F. “Properties of Low-Expansion Materials for Hydrogen Maser Cavities.” In Proceedings of 39th Annual Frequency Control Symposium, p. 75. Ft. Monmouth, New Jersey: U.S. Army Electronics Laboratory, 1985.
Mauche, C.; Gorenstein, P.; and Fabricant, D. “Measurements of X-ray Scattering from Interstellar Dust.” Advanced Space Research 5(1985):141.
McClintock, J. E., and Rappaport, S. A. “Low-Mass X-ray Binaries.” In Cataclysmic Variables and Low-Mass X-ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 61. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Micela, G.; Sciortino, S.; Serio, S.; Vaiana, G.S.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Rosner, R. “Einstein X-ray Survey of the Pleiades: The Dependence of X-ray Luminosity on Stellar Age.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):172.
Molnar, L. A.; Reid, M. J.; and Grindlay, J. E. “Confirmation of Radio Periodicity in Cygnus X-3.” In Radio Stars, eds. R. Hjellming and D. M. Gibson, p. 329. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Moran, J. M. “The SAO Submillimeter Telesocpe Array Project.” In Proceedings of the International Symposium on Millimeter and Submillimeter Astronomy, ed. J. Gomez-Gonzalez, p. 89. Granada, Spain: International Union of Radio Science, 1985.
Murcray, D. G.; Goldman, A.; Kosters, J.; Zander, R.; Evans, W.; Louisnard, N.; Alamichel, C.; Bangham, M.; Pollitt, S.; Carli, B.; Dinelli, B.; Piccioli, S.; Volboni, A.; Traub, W.; and Chance, K. “Intercomparison of Stratospheric Water Vapor Profiles Obtained During the Balloon Intercomparison Campaign.” In Proceedings of the Quadrennial Ozone Symposium, eds. C. S. Zerefos and A. Ghazi, p. 144. Hingham, Massachusetts: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.
Myers, P. C. ‘Star Formation in Dense Cores in Nearby Dark Clouds.” In Proceedings of the International Symposium on Millimeter and Submillimeter Wave Radio Astronomy, ed. J. Gomez-Gonzalez, p. 251. Granada, Spain: International Union of Radio Science, 1985.
Nemec, J. M.; Hazen-Liller, M. L.; and Hesser, J. E. “The Secular Period Behaviour of 38 RR Lyrae Stars in the LMC Globular Cluster NGC 2257.” Astrophysicai Journal Supplements 57(1985):329.
. “Period Changes of RR Lyrae Stars in the LMC Globular Cluster NGC 2257.” In Proceedings
I.A.U. Symposium No. 108, eds. S. van den Bergh and K. S. de Boer, p. 39. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

<<<Page: 178>>>

Noyes, R. W. “Stellar Magnetic Activity, Rotation, and Convection.” Advances in Space Research 4(No. 8)(1984):151.
Noyes, R. W.; Baliunas, S. L.; Belserene, E.; Duncan, D. K.; Horne, J.; and Widrow, L. “Evidence for Global Oscillations in the K2 Dwarf Epsilon Eridani.” Astrophystcal Journal (Letters) 285(1984):L23.
Noyes, R. W., and Rhodes, E. J. (Editors). “Probing the Depths of a Star: The Study of Solar Oscillations from Space,” 76 pp. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1984.
Noyes, R. W.; Weiss, N. O.; and Vaughan, A. H. “The Relation Between Stellar Rotation Rate and Activity Cycle Periods.” Astrophysical Journal 287(1984):769.
Ostro, S. J.; Campbell, D. B.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Mainbelt Asteroids: Dual-Polarization Radar Observations.” Science 229(1985):442.
Owocki, S. P., and Rybick, G. B. “Effect of Scattering on Instabilities in the Line-Driven Stellar Winds.” In The Origin of NonRadiative Heating/Momentum in Hot Stars, eds. A. B. Underhill and A. G. Michalitsianos, p. 221. Greenbelt, Maryland: NASA Conference Publication 2358, 1985.
Patterson, J.; Beuermann, K.; Lamb, D. Q.; Fabbiano, G.; Raymond, J. C.; Swank, J.; and White, N. E. “VV Puppis, The Soft X-Ray Machine.” Astrophysical Journal 279(1984):785.
Patterson, J., and Raymond, J. C. “X-Ray Emission from Cataclysmic Variables with Accretion Disks. I. Hard X-Rays.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):535.
“X-Ray Emission from Cataclysmic Variables with Accretion Disks. II. EUV/Soft X-Ray Radiation.” Astrophysical Journal 292 (1985):550.
Peterson, B. M.; Meyers, K. A.; Capriotti, E. R.; Foltz, C. B.; Wilkes, B. J.; and Miller, H. R. “The Variability of the Spectrum of Arakelian 120 II. Evidence for a Small Broad-Line Emitting Region.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):164.
Philip, A. G. D., and Latham, D. W. (Editors). [.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Pipher, J. L.; Willner, S. P.; and Fazio, G. G. “Infrared Astronomy on the Hubble Space Telesope.” In Advances in Space Research, eds. G. G. Fazio, J. A. M. Bleeker, P. A. J. deKorte, and J. J. Caldwell, p. 173. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1985.
Porter, N. A.; Fegan, D. J.; MacNeill, G. C., and Weekes, T. C. “A Search for Evidence of Nuclearites in Astrophysical Pulse Experiments.” Nature 316(1985):49.
Postman, M.; Huchra, J. P.; Geller, M. J.; and Henry, J. P. “The Magnitude-Redshift Relation for 561 Clusters.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):1400.
Pryor, C.; Latham, D. W.; and Hazen-Liller, M. H. “An Extension of the Search for Spectroscopic Binaries in M3.” In Proceedings [.A.U. Symposium No. 118, Dynamics of Star Clusters, eds. P. Hut and J. Goodman. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Raymond, J. C. “Observations of Supernova Remnants.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics 22(1985):75.
Reasenberg, R. D. “Microarcsecond Astrometric Interferometry.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on High Angular Resolution Optical Interferometry from Space, eds. P. B. Boyce and R. D. Reasenberg, Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 16(3)(1984): 758.
Reid, M. J., and Ho, P. T. P. “G34.3+0.2: A ’Cometary’ HII Region.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 288(1985):L17. :
Rengarajan, T. N.; Fazio G. G.; Maxson, C. W.; McBreen, B.; Serio, S.; and Sciortino, S. “FarInfrared Observations of Two Southern HII Regions RCW122 and G351.6-1.3.” Astronomical Journal 90(1985):88.
Robbins, D.; Evans, W.; Louisnard, N.; Pollitt, S.; Traub, W.; Chance, K.; and Waters, J. “Ozone Intercomparisons from the Balloon Intercomparison Campaign.” In Proceedings of the Quadrennial
zone Symposium, eds. C. S. Zerefos and A. Ghazi, p. 454. Hingham, Massachusetts: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.
Roberts, D. H.; Greenfield, P. E.; Hewitt, J. N.; Burke, B. F.; and Dupree, A. A. “The Multiple Images of the Quasar 0957+561.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):356.
Rodriguez, L. F.; Garcia-Barreto, J. A.; Canto, J.; Moreno, M. A.; Torres-Peimbert, S.; Costero, R.; Moran, J. M.; and Garay, G. “Radio Observations of the Young Planetary Nebula NGC 6302.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 215 (1985):353.

<<<Page: 179>>>

Rogers, A. E. E.; Moffet, A. T.; Backer, D. C.; and Moran, J. M. “Coherence Limits Imposed by Atmospheric Noise in VLBI Observations at 3-mm Wavelength.” Radio Science 19(1983):1552. Rybicki, G. B. “Escape Probability Methods.” In Progress in Stellar Spectral Line Formation Theory, eds. J. E. Beckman and L. Crivellari, p. 199. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1985. ‘
Sanders, D. B., and Willner, S. P. “The Orion B Molecular Jet.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 293(1985):L39.
Schild, R. “CCD Observations of Galaxies in Clusters at High Redshift.” Astrophysical Journal 286(1984):450.
Schild, R.; Huchra, J.; and Tresch-Feinberg, R. “CCD Photometry of the Seyfert Galaxy NGC 1068.” Astronomical Journal 90 (1985):441.
Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; and Rosner, R. “An Einstein Observatory Survey of Late-Type Stars with Shallow Convection Zones.” Astrophysical Journal 290(1985):307.
Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; Peres, G.; Rosner, R.; and Serio, S. “The X-ray Corona of Procyon.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):751.
Schmitt, J. H. M. M., and Reid, M. J. “VLBI Observations of the Nucleus of M87 at Two Epochs.” Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):120.
Schmitz, F.; Ulmschneider, P.; and Kalkofen, W. “Acoustic Waves in the Solar Atmosphere VII: NonGrey non-LTE models.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 148(1985):217.
Schrijver, C. J.; Zwaan, C.; Maxson, C. W.; and Noyes, R. W. “Study of Ultraviolet and X-ray Emissions of Selected Solar Regions.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 149(1985):123.
Schwartz, D.; Bradt, H.; Buckley, D.; Patterson, J.; Remillard, R.; Roberts, W.; and Tuohy, I. “New Identifications of Bright X-ray Sources with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” In Astronomy ’84, eds. M. Oda and R. Giacconi, p.. 455. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, 1985.
“Recent Optical Identifications of HEAO-1 X-ray Sources.” Advanced Space Research 5(1985):137.
Seward, F. D. “Supernova Remnants Containing Neutron Stars.” Comments on Astrophysics 11(1985):15.
Seward, F. D.; Gorenstein, P.; and Tucker, W. H. “Young Supernova Remnants.” Sctentific American 253(1985):88.
Seward, F. D.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Elsner, R. F. “The 50 Millisecond Pulsar in the Large Magellanic Cloud and the X-ray Pulsar Emission Mechanism.” In The Crab Nebula and Related Supernova Remnants, eds. M. C. Kafatos and R. C. Henry, p. 165. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1985.
Seward, F. D.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; and Helfand, D. “Discovery of a 50 millisec Pulsar in the Large Magellanic Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 287(1984):L19.
. “Discovery of a 50 millisec Pulsar in the Large Magellanic Cloud.” In X-ray Astronomy ’84, eds. M. Oda and R. Giacconi, p. 297. Tokyo, Japan: Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, 1985.
Shao, M.; Colavita, M.; Staelin, D.; and Johnston, K. “The Technology Requirements for a Small SpaceBased Astrometric Interferometer.” In Proceedings of the Workshop on High Angular Resolution Optical Interferometry From Space, eds. P. B. Boyce and R. D Reasenberg, Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 16(3)(1984):750.
Smith, P. L.; Johnson, B. C.; Kwong, H. S.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Measurements of Transition Probabilities for Spin-Changing Lines of Atomic Ions Used in Diagnostics of Astrophysical Plasmas.” Physica Scripta TA8(1984):88.
Smith, P. L.; Magnusson, C. E.; and Zetterberg, P. O. “Laboratory Identification of the 3s? 3p? °P2,;3s3p? °S2 Intersystem Lines of S III.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 277(1984):L79.
Spergel, D. N., and Press, W. H. “Effect of Hypothetical, WeaklyInteracing, Massive Particles on Energy Transport in the Solar Interior.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):663.
“Capture of the Sun of a Galactic Population of Weakly-Interacting, Massive Particles.”
Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):679.

<<<Page: 180>>>

Stachnik, R. V., and Gezari, D. Y. “SAMSI: A Orbiting Spatial Interferometer for Microarcsecond Astronomical Observations.” In Proceedings of a Colloquium ”Kilometric Optical Arrays in Space,” (Cargese, Corsica), ESA SP-226, p. 35. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEK, 1985.
Starrfield, S.; Kenyon, S.; Truran, J. W.; and Sparks, W. M. “Hydrodynamic Simulation of a Combined Hydrogen-Helium Thermonuclear Runaway on a 10-km Neutron Star.” In Cataclysmic Variables and Low Mass X-Ray Binaries, eds. D. Q. Lamb and J. Patterson, p. 133. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.
Stauffer, J. R.; Hartmann, L.; Burnham, N.; and Jones, B. F. “Evolution of Low Mass Stars in the a Persei Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal 289(1985):247.
Stefanik, R. P., and Latham, D.W. “The Hyades: Membership and Convergent Point From Radial Velocities.” In Proceedings I.A.U. Colloquium No. 88, Stellar Radial Velocities, eds. A. G. D. Philip and D. W. Latham, p. 213. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1985.
Stier, M. T.; Jaffe, D. T.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Fazio, G. G.; Maxson, C. W.; McBreen, B.; Loughran, L.; Serio, S.; and Sciortino, S. “Far-Infrared and CO Observations of the W33 Complex.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1985):573.
Taylor, J. H.; Gwinn, C. R.; Weisberg, J. M.; and Rawley, L. A. “Pulsar Astrometry.” In Proceedings ILA.U. Symposium 110, VLBI and Compact Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti, K. Kellermann, and G. Setti, p. 347. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.
Teske, R. G., and Kirshner, R. P. “An 16374 Image of a Part of the Cygnus Loop.” Astrophysical Journal 292(1985):22.
Torrelles, J. M.; Canto, J.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Moran, J. M. “An Ammonia Toroid Aligned Perpendicular to the HH1 and HH2 Bipolar Outflow.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 294(1985):L117.
Torrelles, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Canto, J. “VLA Observations of Ammonia and Continuum in Regions with High Velocity Gaseous Outflows.” Astrophysical Journal 288(1985):595.
Traub, W. A. “COSMIC: A High Resolution, Large Collecting Area Telescope.” In Proceedings of Colloquium on Kilometric Optical Arrays in Space, eds. N. Longdon and O. Melita, p. 43. Paris, France: European Space Agency, 1985.
Trinchieri, G.; and Fabbiano, G. “A Statistical Analysis of the Einstein Normal Galaxy Sample: II. Elliptical and SO Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):447.
Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Palumbo, G. G. C. “Detailed X-ray Observations of M82.” Astrophysical Journal 290(1985):96.
Tsinganos, K.; Ferrari, A.; and Rosner, R. “Quasi-two-dimensional Cosmic Jets.” In Proceedings I.A.U. Symposium 107, Unstable Current Systems and Plasma Instabilities in Astrophysics, August 6-10, 1983, eds. M. R. Kundu and G. D. Holman, p. 497. Baltimore, Maryland: University of Maryland, 1985.
Tucker, W., and Giacconi, R. The X-ray Universe. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1985.
Turner, J. L., and Welch, W. J. “Discovery of a Young Stellar Object Near the Water Masers in W3(OH).” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 287(1984):L81.
van Dishoeck, E. F., and Dalgarno, A. “The Dissociation of OH and OD in Comets by Solar Radiation.” Icarus 59(1984):305.
van Dishoeck, E. F.; van Hemert, M. C.; Allison, A. C.; and Dalgarno, A. “Resonances in the Photodissociation of OH by Absorption into Coupled 7II States: Adiabatic and Diabatic Formulations.” Journal of Chemical Physics 81(1984):5709.
Vessot, R. F. C. “Tests of Gravitation and Relativity.” Contemporary Physics 25(1984):355.
. “Tests of Gravitation and Relativity.” In Prectston Measurements and Fundamental Constants II, eds. B. N. Taylor and W. D. Phillips, National Bureau of Standards (U.S.) Special Publications 617(1984):611.
Vessot, R. F. C.; Allan, D. W.; Alley, C. O.; Decher, R.; Penfield, H.; and Winkler, G. M. R. “A High Accuracy Spaceborne Worldwide Time and Frequency Comparison System.” In Proceedings of International Conference on Frequency and Time Meteorology, Honzu, China (Sept. 1984), 1985.
Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Imbier, E. A.; Zhai, Z. C.; Klepczynski, W. J.; Wheeler, P. G.; Kubik, A. J.; and Winkler, G. M. R. “Performance Data of U.S Naval Observatory VLG-11 Hydrogen

<<<Page: 181>>>

Masers Since September 1984.” In Proceedings of the 16th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval Conference (Goddard Space Flight Center, Nov. 27-29, 1984,) ed. R. L. Sydnor, p. 375. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1984.
Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Klepczynski, W. J.; Winkler, G. M. R.; Silvera, I. F.; and Godfried, H. P. “Present Clock Stability and Realistic Prospects for the Future.” In Proceedings of 4th Annual Marcel Grossman Meeting on General Relativity (Rome, Italy, June 17-21), 1985.
Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; and Zhai, Z. C. “Atomic Hydrogen Measurements with Wall Surfaces of Carbon Tetrafluoride.” In Proceedings of the 16th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval Conference, (Goddard Space Flight Center, Nov. 27-29, 1984), ed. R. L. Sydnor, p. 357. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1984.
Vrtilek, J. M., and Carlton, N. P. “Seyfert Galaxy Narrow-Line Regions. I. Observations of {O III] 45007.” Astrophysical Journal 294(1985):106.
Weekes, T. C. “A Third Generation VHE Gamma Ray Observatory.” In Proceedings of Workshop on Cosmic Ray and High Energy Gamma-Ray Experiments for the Space Station Era, eds. V. Jones and J. Wefel, p. 497. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University, 1985.
“An Observatory to Study 10/9 to 1017 eV Gamma Rays.” In Proceedings of the 19th International Cosmic Ray Conference (La Jolla, USA) 3(1985):422.
Wehrse, R., and Kalkofen, W. “Resonance Lines in Dusty Gaseous Nebulae.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 147(1985):71. :
Wetmore, R. W.; Fox. J. L.; and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Lifetimes of the Second Negative System of the O2.” Planetary and Space Science 32(1984):1111.
Whitney, C. “Semiregular Variables: Are They Chaotic or Ringing?” Journal of the American Association of Variable Star Observations 13(1)(1984).
. “Generation and Testing of Pseudo-Random Numbers.” BYTE October(1984):128.
Whitney, C., and Aikawa, T. “Stellar Acoustics III. Pulse Propagation and Bump Features. Astrophysical Journal 296(1985):165.
Whipple, F.L. “Comet P/Holmes, 1892 III a Case of Duplicity?” Icarus 60(1984):522.
Wilkes, B. J. “PG0946+301: A Low Redshift BAL QSO.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 288(1985):L1.
Withbroe, G. L.; Habbal, S. R.; and Ronan, R. S. “Impulsive Phenomena in a Small Active Region.” Solar Physics 95(1985):297.
Withbroe, G. L., and Raymond, J. C. “Plasma Diagnostics for the Outer Solar Corona, UV and XUV Fe XII Lines.” Astrophysical Journal 285(1984):347.
Witt, A., and Schild, R. “Colors of Reflection Nebulae. II. The Excitation of Extended Red Emission.” Astrophysical Journal.294(1985):225.
Wood, J. A. “Formation of Chondrules by Drag Heating in Dust-Enriched Environments.” Lunar and Planetary Sctence XV(1984):933.
. “On the Formation of Meteoritic Chondrules by Aerodynamic Drag Heating in the Solar
Nebula.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters 70(1984):11.
. “An Overview of the Cosmic History of the Biogenic Elements and Compounds.” In Cosmic
History of the Biogenic Elements and Compounds, eds. J. A. Wood and S. Chang, NASA SP-476, p.
. “The Initiation of Chondrule Accretion after Chondrule Formation by Drag Heating.” Lunar and Planetary Science XVI(1985):920.
Wood, J. A., and Chang, S. (Editors) “Cosmic History of the Biogenic Elements and Compounds.” NASA SP-476. NASA, 1985.
Wood, J. A., and Kornacki, A. S. “The Mineral Chemistry and Origin of Inclusion Matrix in the Allende CV3 Chondrite.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 48(1984):1663.
“Mineral Chemistry and Origin of Spinel-Rich Inclusions in the Allende CV3 Chondrite.”
Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 49 (1985):1219.
“The Identification of Group II Inclusions by Electron Probe Microanalysis.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters 72(1985):74.
Worrall, D. M. “BL Lacertae Objects: Multifrequency Observations and Model Applications.” In Proceedings of the Conference on X-ray and UV Emission from Active Galactic Nuclet, eds. W.

<<<Page: 182>>>

Brinkmann and J. Trumper, p. 11. MPE Report 184, 1984.
Worrall, D. M.; Puschell, J. J.; Rodriquez-Espinosa, J. M.; Bruhweiler, F. C.; Miller, H. R.; Aller, M. F.; and Aller, H. D. “Multifrequency Spectral Behavior of the BL Lac Objects OI 90.4 and 3C 66A.” The Astrophysical Journal 286(1984): 711.
Yee, J-H.; Abreu, V.J.; and Dalgarno, A. “Characteristics of the Spacecraft Optical Glow.” Geophysical Research Letters 11(1984): 1192.
Yee, J-H., and Dalgarno, A. “Energy Transfer of O(.5) Atoms in Collision with O(? P) Atoms.” Planetary and Space Science 33(1985):825.
Yoshino, K., and Freeman, D.E. “High Resolution. Vacuum Ultraviolet Absorption Spectrum of Nz: Perturbations in the c£(0)'Zt and c4(0)'II, Rydberg Levels.” Canadian Journal of Physics 62(1984):1478.
“Absorption Spectrum of Xenon in the Vacuum-Ultraviolet Region.” Journal of the Optical Society of America B 2(1985): 1268.
Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D.E.; and Parkinson, W.H. “High Resolution Absorption Cross Section Measurements of N2O at 295-299 K in the Wavelength Region 170-222 nm.” Planetary and Space Science 32(1984):1219.
“Atlas of the Schumann-Runge Absorption Bands of O2 in the Wavelength Region 175-205 nm.” Journal of Physical Chemistry Reference Data 13(1985):207.
Zheng, X. W.; Ho, P. T. P.; Reid, M. J.; and Schneps, M. H. “Molecular Clouds Associated with Compact HII Regions II. The Rapidly Rotating Condensation Associated with ON1.” Astrophysical Journal 293(1985):522.

<<<Page: 183>>>

Chereskin, Barbara M.; Clement-Metral, Jenny D.; and Gantt, Elisabeth. “Characterization of a Purified Photosystem II-Phycobilisome Particle Preparation from Porphuridium cruentum.," Plant Phusiologu 77(1985):626-629.
Cleland, Charles F. “Biochemistry of Induction The Immediate Action of Light.” In Light and the Flowering Process, pp. 123-136. Academic Press, 1984.
Clement-Metral, Jenny D.; Gantt, Elisabeth; and Redlinger, Thomas. "A Photosystem I1-Phycobilisome Preparation from the Red Alga, Porphyridium cruentum: Oxygen Evolution, Ultrastructure, and Polypeptide Resolution.” Archives of Biochemistry and Biophusics 238(1985):10-17.
Cotter, J. F. P.; Evenson, E. B.; Sirkin, L.; and Stuckenrath, R. "The Interpretation of 'Bog-Bottom' Radiocarbon Dates in Glacial Chronologies.” In Correlation of Quaternary Chronologies. ed. W. C. Jahaney, pp. 299-316. Teo Books, 1984.
Deitzer, Gerald F. "“Photoperiodic Induction in Long-Day Plants.” In Light and the Flowering Process, Chapt. 4, pp. 51-63. Academic Press, 1984.
Dennison, David S., and Shropshire, W., Jr. "The Gravireceptor of Phucomuces:Its Development Following Gravity Exposure." Journal of General Phyusiologu 84(1984):845-859.
Drake, Bert G. “Light Response Characteristics of Net CO» Exchange in Brackish Wetland Plant Communities." Oecologia 63(1984):263-270.
Fujioka, S.; Yamaguchi, I.; Murofushi, N.; Takahashi, N.; Kaihara, S.; Takahashi, A.; and Cleland, C. F. 1985. "The Role of Benzoic Acid and Plant Hormones in Flowering of Lemna gibba G3." Plant and Cell Phusiologu 26(1985):655-659.
Goldberg, Bernard; Klein, William H.; Correll, David L.; and Pierce, J. W. “Instrumentation for Performing Spectral Measurements in a Marine Environment." Marine Technology Society Journal 18(1985):1-6.
Harding, R. W.; Philip, D. Q.; Drozdowicz, B. Z.; and Williams, N. P. "A Neurospora crassa Mutant Which Overaccumulates Carotenoid Pigments.” Neurospora Newsletter 31(1984):23-25.
Hines, A. H., and Comtois, K. L. “Vertical Distribution of Infauna in Sediments of a Subestuary of Central Chesapeake Bay." Estuaries 8(1985): 251-261.
Hines, A. H.; Osgood, K. E.; and Miklas, J. J. “Semilunar Reproductive Cycles in Fundulus heteroclitus (Pisces; Cyprino dontidae) in an Area Without Lunar Tidal Cycles." Fishery Bulletin 83(1985):201-206.
Holliday, Vance T.; Johnson, Eileen; Haas, Herbert; and Stuckenrath, Robert. "Radiocarbon Ages from the Lubbock Lake Site, 1950-1980: Framework for Cultural and Ecological Change on the Southern High Plains." Journal of the Plains Anthropology Society 28(1983):165-182.
Holmes, M. G.; Klein, W. H.; and Sager, J. C. "Photons, Flux and Some Light on Philology.” HortScience 20(1985):29-31.
Longworth, J. W.; Jagger, J.; and Shropshire, W., Jr. (eds.) Photobiologu 1984. pp. 1-283. New York: Praeger Scientific Publishers, 1985.
Lynch, J. F. “The Feeding Ecology of Aneides flavipunctatus and Sympatric Plethodontid Salamanders in Northern California.” Journal of Herpetologu 19(1985):328-352.

<<<Page: 184>>>

Meeson, B. W. and Faust, M. A. “Response of Prorocentrum minimum (Dinophuceae) to Different Spectral Qualities and Irradiances: Growth and Photosynthesis.” In Marine Biology of Polar Regions and Effects of Stress on Marine Organisms, eds. J. S. Gray and M. E. Christiansen, pp. 445-461. John Wiley & Sons, 1985.
Moore-Landecker, Elizabeth and Shropshire, W., Jr. “Effects of Ultraviolet A Radiation and Inhibitory Volatile Substances on the Discomycete, Puronema domesticum.” Mycologia 76(1984):820-829.
Peterjohn, William T. and Correll, David L. "Nutrient Dynamics in an Agricultural Watershed: Observations on the Role of A Riparian Forest.” Ecologu 65(1984):1466-1475.
Rublee, P. A.; Merkel, S. M.; Faust, M. A.; and Miklas, J. “Distribution and Activity of Bacteria in the Headwaters of the Rhode River Estuary, Maryland, U.S.A." Microbial Ecologu 10(1984):243-255.
Shropshire, W., Jr. “Signal Processing in the Transduction Mechanisms of Phototropism.” In Sensory Perception and Transduction in Aneural Organisms, ed. Giuliano Colombetti and Pill-Soon Song, pp. 211-229, Plenum Publishing Corp., 1985.
Stanley, Daniel Jean; Nelsen, Terry A.; and Stuckenrath, Robert. "Recent Sedimentation on the New Jersey Slope and Rise.” Science 226(1984)125-133.
Thompson, Laura K.; Ziv, Meira; and Deitzer, Gerald F. “Photocontrol of Peanut (Arachis hupogaea L.) Embryo and Ovule Development in vitro." Plant Physiology 78(1985):370-373.
Whigham, D. F. “The Effect of Competition and Nutrient Availability on the Growth and Reproduction of Ipomoea hederacea in an Abandoned Old Field.” Journal of Ecologu 72(1984):721-730.
. “Vegetation in Wetlands Receiving Sewage Effluent: The Importance of the Seed Bank.” In Ecological Considerations in Wetlands Treatment of Municipal Wastewater, eds. P. J. Godfrey, E. R. Kaynor, S. Pelczarski, and J. Benforado, pp. 231-240. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1985.
Zeiger, Eduardo; Grivet, C.; Assmann, Sarah M.; Deitzer, Gerald F.; and Hannegan, M. W. "“Stomatal Limitation to Carbon Gain in Paphiopedilum sp.
(Orchidaceae) and Its Reversal by Blue Light.” Plant Phusiologuy 77( 1985 ):456-460.
Falk, J.H. "Defining Excellence in Informal Education." In Focus on Excellence, Vol. 2(3), ed. J.E. Penick, 1985.
Falk, JH. ; Koran, J.J.; and Dierking, L.D. "The Things of Science: Assessing the Learning Potential of Science Museums." Science Education 69(3)(1985):75-89.
Mager, R., and. Falk. J... "Informal Science Education: A
Critique." In Focus on Excellence, Vol. 2(3), edi we: Penick, 1985.

<<<Page: 185>>>

Ackerman, James D. "“Euglossine bees and their nectar hosts.” In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 225-234. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
Ackerman, James D. and Montalvo, Arlee M. “Longevity of euglossine bees.” Biotropica 17(1)(1985): 79-81.
Altamar J., Aurora and Garcia Vielka. Cria en el laboratorio, estudio de la ecologia y del ciclo de vida del orden Ephemeroptera (Insecta) en el Rio la Puente, Panamaé. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1985.
Angehr, George, Coley, Phyllis and Worthington, Andrea. Gufa de los Arboles Comunes del Parque Nacional Soberania, Panama, éd. Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute and Direccién Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables. /71p, 1984.
Armbruster, W. Scott and Herzig, Ann L. “Partitioning and sharing of pollinators by four sympatric species of Dalechampia (Euphorbiaceae) in Panama." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 71(1)(1984): 1-16.
Angermeier, Paul L. and Karr, James R. "Relationships between woody debris and fish habitat in a small warmwater stream.” Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 113(4)(1984): 716-726.
Augspurger, Carol K. “Flowering synchrony of neotropical plants.” In: The Botany and Natural. History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 235-244. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
-----. "Light requirements of neotropical tree seedlings: a comparative study of growth and survival.” Journal of Ecology, 72(3)(1984): THA =195
=-ssz . "Seedling survival of tropical tree species: interactions of dispersal distance, light-gaps, and pathogens.” Ecology 65(6)(1984): 7. OSs 7s. 2;. i
Becker, Peter and Wong, Marina. "Seed dispersal, seed predation, and juvenile mortality of Aglaia sp. (Meliaceae) in Lowland dipterocarp rainforest.” Biotropica 17(3)(1985): 230-237.
Bennett, Charles A. "The Panama land bridge: a brief review." In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 117-124. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.

<<<Page: 186>>>

Blake, John G. and Karr, James R. “Species composition of bird communities and the conservation benefit of large vs. small forests.” Biological Conservation 30(2)(1984): 173-187.
Blomquist, Gary J., Roubik, David W. and Buchmann, Stephen L. "Wax chemistry of two stingless bees of the Trigonisca group (Apidae: Meliponinae)." Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology 82B(1)(1985): 137-142.
Borgia, Gerald. “Bower quality, number of decorations and mating success of male satin bowerbirds (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus): an experimental analysis. Animal Behaviour 33(1983): 266-271.
Brokaw, Nicholas V.L. “Gap-phase regeneration in a tropical forest.” Ecology 66(3)(1985): 682-687.
SSS . "“Treefalls, regrowth, and community structure in tropical forests." In: The Ecology of Natural Disturbance and Patch Dynamics, ed. S.T.A. Pickett and P.S. White, pp. 53-69. New York: Academic Press, 1985.
Caicedo R., Ricardo E. Distribucién y aspectos taxonédmicos de los moluscos marinos del archipiélago de las Mulatas, San Blas (Kuna Yala). Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1984.
Caldwell, Roy L. "A test of individual recognition in the stomatopod Gonodactylus festae." Animal Behaviour 33(1)(1985): 101-106.
Carlisle, Tamsie R. “Parental response to brood size in a cichlid fish.” Animal Behaviour 33(1)(1985): 234-238.
Chen Fong, Eugenio. Contribuci6én a la evaluacién poblacional de Cichla ocellaris Bloch y Schneider, 1801, en el Lago de las Cumbres, Reptiblica de Panama. Thesis, Universidad Auténoma de Guadalajara, 1985.
Christenson, Terry E. “Behavior of colonial and solitary spiders of the theridiid species Anelosimus eximius."” Animal Behaviour 32(3)(1984): UP SVS
Christy, John H., and Salmon, Michael. “Ecology and evolution of mating systems of fiddler crabs (genus Uca)." Biological Reviews, 59(4) (1984): 483-509.
Coates, A.G. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “The morphological distinction distinction between zooxanthellate corals from shallow water ( 100 m) reffs and non-zooxanthellate coral from deeper water ( 200 m).” Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti, 2985) 279%
Connor, J.L. Seasonality and reproduction of algae on Galeta Reef. Ph.D. dissertation. Berkeley, California: University of California.

<<<Page: 187>>>

Cooke, Richard G. "Ancient painted pottery from Central Panama.” Archaeology July/August (1985): 33-39.
-----. "Archaeological research in Central and Eastern Panama: a review of some problems." In: The Archaeology of Lower Central America, ed.
F.W. Lange and D. Stone, pp. 263-302. Alburquerque: University of New
Mexico Press, 1984.
== . “Birds and men in Prehistoric Central Panama.” In: Recent Developments in Isthmian Archaeology, Proceedings of the 44th
International Congress of Americanists, ed. Frederick W. Lange, pp. 243-282, 1984.
----. "La arqueologia prehistérica en Panama: una introduccién.”
Suplemento Educativo Cultural de La Prensa, Serie Nuestra Historia 124935) HLOe
-----. "La arqueologia prehistdérica de Panama: II Parte. Una Sintesis cronolégica.” Suplemento Educativo Cultural de La Prensa, Serie Nuestra Historia 13(1985): 1-19.
Cooke, Richard G. and Bray, Warwick. "The goldwork of Panama: an iconographic and chronological perspective.” In: The Art of Precolombian Gold: the Jan Mitchell Collection, ed. Julie Jones, pp. 35-45. London: Weidenfeld and Nicholson, 1985.
Cooke, Richard G. and Olson, Storrs L. “An archaeological record for the
white-faced whistling-duck (Dendrocygna viduata) in Central Panama." The Condor 86(1984): 493-494.
Cooke, Richard G., Piperno, Dolores, Ranere, Anthony J., Clary, Karen, Hansell, Patricia, Olson, Storrs, Valerio L., Wilson and Weiland, Doris. "La influencia de las poblaciones humanas sobre las ambientes terrestres de Panama entre el 10,000 A.C. y el 500 D.C." In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 3-25, Panama: Instituto de Investigaci6én Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
Cooke, Richard G. and Ranere, Anthony J. “The “Proyecto Santa Maria": a multidisciplinary analysis of prehistoric adaptations to a tropical watershed Panama.” In: Recent Developments in Isthmian Archaeology,
Proceedings of the 44th International Congress of Americanists, ed. Frederick W. Lange, pp. 3-30, 1984.
Croat, Thomas B. "The large monocots of Panama.” In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama,
ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 5-12. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
Cubit, John D. "“Herbivory and the seasonal abundance of algae on a high intertidal rocky shore.” Ecology 65(6)(1984): 1904-1917.

<<<Page: 188>>>

sSos= . "Possible effects of recent changes in sea level on the biota of a Caribbean reef flat and predicted effects of rising sea level. In: Proceedings from the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress. Antenne
du Musuem National d'Histoire Naturelle et de 1'Ecole Pratique des
Hautes Etudes en Polynesie Francaise. Tahiti, French Polynesia.
Cubit, John D., Batista, Gloria, Roman, Argelis and Batista, Victoria. "El valor de los manglares y arrecifes en la costa de Colén.” In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 183-199, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
De Alba, Georgina and Rubinoff, Ira. "El valor de nuestros bosques.” In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 201-214, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
D'Croz, Luis. "Los manglares: su importancia para la zona costera tropical. In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 167-181, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
De Steven, Diane and Putz, Francis E. “Impact of mammals on early
recruitment of a tropical canopy tree, Dipteryx panamensis, in Panama. Oikos 43(1984): 207-216.
Decae, Arthur E. "A theory of the origin of spiders and the primitive function of spider silk." Journal of Arachnology 12(1)(1984): 21-28.
DeLong, Dwight M., and Wolda, Henk. "New Panamanian Gyponine leafhoppers (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) belonging to the genera Polana and Curtara.” Uttar Pradesh Journal of Zoology 4(1)(1984): 22-30.
= . "New Panamanian Gyponine leafhoppers (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) belonging to the genera Hecalapona, Gypona and Gyponana.” Uttar
Pradesh Journal of Zoology 4(2)(1984): 135-144.
DeLong, Dwight M., Wolda, Henk and Estribf, Miguel. "Some new species of Panama Xestocephalus (Homoptera: Xestocephalinae).” Uttar Pradesh
Journal of Zoology 3(2)(1983): 73-80.
Denny, Mark W. “Mechanical properties of pedal mucus and their consequences for gastropod structure and performance." American Zoologist 24(1)(1984): 23-36.
Denny, Mark W., Daniel, Thomas L. and Koehl, M.A.R. "Mechanical limits to size in wave-swept organisms." Ecological Monographs 55(1)(1985): 69-102.

<<<Page: 189>>>

Dressler, Robert L. “La delimitacién de géneros en el complejo
Epidendrum." Orquidea 9(2)(1984): 277-298. (Includes English version.--—— . “The orchid flora of Panama." of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 25-28. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
= "“Palmorchis en Panam4: una nueva especie donde menos se le esperaba." Orquidea 9(2)(1984): 213-230. (Includes English version).
Eberhard, William G. Sexual Selection and Animal Genitalia. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1985.
Eberhard, William G. and Bricefio, Daniel. “Behavior and ecology of four species of Modissimus and Blechroscelis (Araneae, Pholcidae).” Rev. Arachnol. 6(1985): 29-36.
Fadlallah, Yusef H., Karlson, Ronald H. and Sebens, Kenneth P. "A comparative study of sexual reproduction in three species of Panamanian zoanthids (Coelenterata: Anthozoa)." Bulletin of Marine Science 35(1)(1984): 80-89.
Fausch, Kurt D., Karr, James R. and Yant, Philip R. "Regional application of an index of biotic integrity based on stream-fish communities.” Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 113(1)(1984): 39-55.
Fisher, Eric A. “Egg trading in the chalk bass, Serranus tortugarum, a
simultaneous hermaphrodite." Zeitschrift fur Tierpsychologie 66(2)(1984): 143-151.
Foster, Robin. "Plant seasonality in the forests of Panama.” In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botdnica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 255-262. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
Garrity, Stephen D. and Levings, Sally C. “Aggregation in a tropical neritid.” The Veliger 27(1)(1984): 1-6.
Gilliam, Martha, Buchmann, Stephen L., Lorenz, Brenda J. and Roubik,
David W. "Microbiology of the larval provisions of the stingless bee, Trigona hypogea, an obligate necropage."” Biotropica 17(1)(1985): 23=3 1.
Glanz, William E. "Food and habitat use by two sympatric Sciurus species in central Panama." Journal of Mammalogy 65(2)(1984): 342-347.
Glynn, Peter W. “An amphinomid worm predator of the crown-of-thorns sea star and general predation on asteroids in eastern and western Pacific coral reefs." Bulletin of Marine Science, 35(1)(1984): 54-71.
-----. "Widespread coral mortality and the 1982-83 El Nifio warming event.” Environmental Conservation 11(2)(1984): 133-146.
In: The Botany and Natural History

<<<Page: 190>>>

Glynn, Peter W., Howard, L.S., Corcoran, Eugene and Freay Ana D. “The occurrence and toxicity of herbicides in reef building corals.” Marine Pollution Bulletin 15(10)(1984): 370-374.
Glynn, Peter W., Perez, Miguel and Gilchrist, Sandra L. “Lipid decline in stressed corals and their crustacean symbionts.” Biological Bulletin 168(2)(1985): 276-284.
Gémez Q., Nelida E. Balance de Nitrégeno y Fésforo en un Manglar de la Costa de la Bahia de Panama. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1984.
Graham, Jeffrey B. "Seasonal and environmental effects on the blood hemoglobin concentrations of some Panamanian air-breathing fishes.’ Environmental Biology of Fishes 12(4)(1985): 291-301.
Graham, Jeffrey B., Jones, Clara B., and Rubinoff, Ira. "Behavioural, physiological, and ecological aspects of the amphibious life of the pearl blenny Entomacrodus nigricans Gill." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 89(1985): 255-268.
Greenberg, Russel and Gradwohl, Judy. "A comparative study of the social organization of antwrens on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Ornithological Monographs 36(1985): 845-855.
Guerra, Urrutia, Marcos A. "El guardabosques y su funcidén social.” La Prensa June 16(1984): 3B
SSS . "La 6tica ecolégica. El conservacionismo ecolédgico no admite demagogias.” Boletin Harpia May (1)(1984): 10.
Hagedorn, Mary and Carr, Catherine. "Single electrocytes produce a sexually dimorphic signal in South American electric fish, Hypopomus occidentalis (Gymnotiformes, Hypopomidae)." Journal of Comparative Physiology A 156(1985): 511-523.
Hagedorn, Mary and Heiligenberg, Walter. "Court and spark: electric signals in the courtship and mating of gymnotoid fish." Animal Behaviour 33(1)(1985): 254-265.
Hay, Mark E. "Predictable spatial escapes from herbivory: how do these affect the evolution of hervibore resistance in tropical marine communities?” Oecologia 64(3)(1984): 396-407.
Hay, Mark E. and Gaines, S.D. “Geographic differences in herbivore impact: do Pacific herbivores prevent Caribbean seaweeds from colonizing via the Panama Canal?" Biotropica 16(1)(1984): 24-30.
Hay, Mark E. and Norris, James N. "Seasonal reproduction and abundance of six sympatric species of Gracilaria Grev. (Gracilariaceae: Phodophyta) on a Caribbean subtidal sand plain.” Hydrobiologia 116/117(1984): 63-72.

<<<Page: 191>>>

Heckadon Moreno, Stanley. "La colonizacién campesina de bosques tropicales en Panama.” In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 397-410. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
-----. “La ganaderfa extensiva y la deforestacién: los costos de una alternativa de desarrollo. In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzdlez, pp. 45-62,, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
-----. “La urbanizacién y la basura en la ciudad de Panama 1905-1985.” In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 299-317, Panam4: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
----. "Los panamefios y los recursos naturales.” Revista Panamefia de la Construccién 1(4)(1984): 3-13. 7 Heckadon Moreno, Stanley and Gonz4lez, Jaime Espinosa (eds.). Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Ppanamefio. Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
Hendler, Gordon. "Brittlestar color-change and phototaxis (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea: Ophiocomidae)." Marine Ecology 5(4)(1984): 379-401.
Herre, Edward Allen. "Sex ratio adjustment in fig wasps." Science 228(1985): 896-898.
Him F., José J. Estudio de las Angiospermas del Valle de Hornito y los Cerros Fortuna y Pinola, Ubicados en el Proyecto Hidroeléctrico Fortuna. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1984.
Hodkinson, I.D. Taxonomic and ecological studies on the psyllids (Insecta: Homoptera: Psylloidea) of tropical rain forest in Panama. Progress Report to RENARE and STRI, 8p., 1985.
Howden, H.F. and Gill, B. "Two new species of Neoathyreus Howden and Martinez from Costa Rica with distribution notes on other Athyreini from Mexico and Central America (Coleoptera: Geotrupinae)." The
Canadian Entomologist 116(12)(1984): 1637-1641.
Howe, Henry F. “Constraints on the evolution of mutualism. Naturalist 123(6)(1984): 764-777.
The American = "“Gomphothere fruits: a critique. The American Naturalist 125(6) (1985): 853-865.
-----. “Implications of seed dispersal by animals for tropical reserve Management.” Biological Conservation 30(3)(1984): 261-281.
H (oe) A

<<<Page: 192>>>

Howe, Henry F., Schupp, Eugene W., and Westley, L.C. “Early consequences of seed dispersal for a Neotropical tree (Virola surinamensis). Ecology 66(3)(1985): 781-791.
Hubbell, Stephen P. "Methodologies for the study of the origin and maintenance of tree diversity in tropical rainforest.” In: The Significance of Species Diversity in tropical forest ecosystems. In: Biology International, ed. G.M. Hadley and T. Younes, pp. 8-12. IUBS Special Issue No. 6, 1984.
Hubbell, Stephen P. and Foster, Robin B. "Biology, chance, and history and the structure of tropical rainforest tree communities.” In: Community Ecology, eds. J. Diamond and T.J. Case, Chapter 19. New York: Harper and Row.
ee . “Canopy gaps and the dynamics of a neotropical forest." In: Plant Ecology, eds. M.J. Crawley, Chapter 3. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Hubbell, Stephen P., Wiemer, David F. and Adejare, Adeboye. "An antifungal terpenoid defends a neotropical tree (Hymenaea) against attack by fungus-growing ants (Atta).” Oecologia 60(3)(1983): 321-327.
Hughes, T.P. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Population dynamics and life histories of foliaceous corals.” Ecological Monographs 55(2)(1985): 141-166.
Hughes, T.P., Keller, B.D., Jackson, Jeremy J.B.C. and Boyle, M.J. "Mass mortality of the echinoid Diadema antillarum Philippi in Jamaica.” Bulletin of Marine Science 36(2)(1985): 377-384.
Humes, Arthur G. “Hemicyclops columnaris sp.n. (Copepoda, Poecilostomatoida, Clausidiidae) associated with a coral in Panama (Pacific side).“ Zoologica Scripta 13(1)(1984): 33-39.
SSS . "“Ostrincola and Pseudomycola (Crustacea: Copepoda: Poecilostomatoida) associated with marine bivalve mollusks on the Pacific coast of Panama.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(3)(1984): 589-600.
Ito, Yosiaki. “A comparison of frequency of intra-colony aggressive behaviours among five species of polistine wasps (Hymenoptera: Vespidae).” Zeitschrift fur Tierpsychologie 68(2)(1985): 152-167.
---—. "Shifts of females between adjacent nests of Polistes versicolor
(Hymenoptera: Vespidae) in Panama.” Insectes Sociaux 31(1)(1984): 103-111.
=o “Social behaviour and social structure of neotropical paper wasps Mischocyttarus argulatus Richards and M. basimacula (Cameron).” Journal of Ethology 2(1)(1984): 17-29.

<<<Page: 193>>>

Jackson, Jeremy B. “Ecology of cryptic coral reef communities. III. Abundance and aggregation of encrusting organisms with particular reference to cheilostome Bryozoa." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology, 75(1984): 37-57.
Jackson, Jeremy B. and Hughes, Terence P. "Adaptive strategies of coralreef invertebrates." American Scientist 73(3)(1985): 265-274.
Jaramillo Adam, Fidel E. and Jaramillo Adam, Cesar A. Algunos aspectos sobre la sistematica, conducta, ecologia y distribucién de las "“ranas~» de cristal", género Centrolenella (Amphibia, Anura, Centrolenidae), de Panama. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1984.
Jaramillo de Ventociila, Yira M. Ciclo de vida de Brassolis isthmia (Nymphalidae-Brassolidae Lepidoptera. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1985.
Johnson, Leslie K., Haynes, L.W., Carlson, M.A., Fortnum, H.A. and Gorgas, D.L.° “Alarm substances of the stingless bee, Trigona silvestriana.” Journal of Chemical Ecology 11(4)(1985): 409-416.
Johnson, Leslie K. and Hubbell, Stephen P. “Male choice. Experimental demonstration in a brentid weevil.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 1984(15)(1984): 183-188.
-----. "Nest tree selectivity and density of stingless bee colonies in a Panamanian forest.” In: Tropical Rain-Forest: The Leeds Symposiun, ed. A.C. Chadwick and S.L. Sutton, pp. 147-154. Leeds: Leeds Philos. and Lit. Society, 1984.
Joly, Luz Graciela. "El uso del Piper auritum para alimentar y atrapar pescado por los Naturales de Rfo Indio, Panama." In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 369-378. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
Jopling, Carol F. "Art and ethnicity.” Ethnos, 49(1/2)(1984): 98-118.
Karr, James R. “Birds of Panama." In: The Botany and Natural History of
Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G.
TVA Gass aE Ee OL LLea Sa PN PRLS TSE SET Ma A Ee a SEL TENET, lo oh penoner nite . : .
D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 77-94. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
--—---. "Costa Rican Natural History", ed. Daniel H. Janzen. (Book review). The Auk 101(3)(1984): 642-643.
-----. "Dictionary of the Environment", by Michael Allaby. (Book review). The Auk 102(1)(1985): 228-229.
-—---. “Evaluation of an index of biotic integrity: temporal variability and regional application." Research Brief, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Corvallis, Oregon. EPA-600/D-84-053. 8p, 1984.

<<<Page: 194>>>

coe . “Landscape Ecology: Theory and Application” by Zev Nveh and Arthur S. Lieberman. (Book review). Ecology 66(2)(1985): 641.
-----, "Turnover rates in tropical forest bird communities.” -In: Research Reports 1975 Projects, National Geographic Society, pp. 421-425, 1983.
Karr, James R. and Freemark, Kathryn E. “Habitat selection in tropical birds.” BioScience 34(4)(1984): 256.
SSS . “Disturbance and vertebrates: an integrative perspective. In: The Ecology of Natural Disturbance and Patch Dynamics, ed. S.T.A. Pickett and P.S. White, pp. 153-168. New York: Academic Press, 1985.
Karr, James R., Heidinger, R.C. and Helmer, E.H. “Sensitivity of the index of biotic to changes in chlorine and amonia levels from wastewater treatment facilities.” Journal Water Pollution Control Federation 57(9)(1985): 912-915.
Karr, James R., Toth, Louis A. and Dudley, Daniel R. “Fish communities of Midwestern rivers: a history of degradation.” BioScience 35(2)(1985): 90-95.
Kilar, John A. “Interactions between the red algae Acanthophora specifera and the decorator crab Microphrys bicornutus. Ph.D. dissertation. Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada: Dalhousie University.
Kilar, John A., and Lou, R.M. “Ecological and behavioral studies of the decorator crab, Microphrys bicornutus Latreille (Decapoda: Brachyura): a test of optimal foraging theory.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 74(2)(1984): 157-167.
Kimsey, Lynn Siri and Smith, David R. "Two new species, larval descriptions, and life history notes of some Panamanian sawflies (Hymenoptera: Argidae, Tenthredinidae)."” Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington 87(1)(1985): 191-201.
Knapp, Sandra and Mallet, James. “Two new species of Passiflora (Passifloraceae) from Panama, with comments on their natural history.” Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 71(4)(1984): 1068-1074.
Knowlton, Nancy. "The Explanation of Organic Diversity" by Mark Ridley. (Book review). Science 225(1984): 160-161.
Knowlton, Nancy and Greenwell, Simon R. “Male sperm competition avoidance mechanisms: the influence of female interests.” In: Sperm Competition and the Evolution of Animal Mating Systems ed. R.L. Smith, pp. 61-84. New York: Academic Press, 1984.
LaBarbera, Michael. "Mechanisms of spatial competition of Discinisca strigata (Inarticulata: Brachiopoda) in the intertidal of Panama. Biological Bulletin 168(1)(1985): 91-105.

<<<Page: 195>>>

Laguna, Jorge. “Caries-like infections in Loxorhynchus crispatus (Crustacea, Brachyura, Majidae)." Journal of Invertebrate Pathology 45(1985): 247-248.
-----. Systematics, ecology and distribution of Barnacles (Cirripedia; Thoracica) of Panama. San Diego, University of California, 1985.
Lasker, Howard R. “Asexual reproduction, fragmentation, and skeletal
morphology of a plexaurid gorgonian.” Marine Ecology Progress Series
19(3) (1984): 261-268.
SSS . "Prey preferences and browsing pressure of the butterflyish
Chaetodon capistratus on Caribbean gorgonians.” Marine Ecology Progress Series 21(3)(1985): 213-220.
Leon C., Ameth S. de. Estudio Comparativo de dos Sotobosques en el Area de Gigante, Lago Gatin. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1984.
Lessios, Harilaos A. "Genetic consequences of mass mortality in the Caribbean sea urchin Diadema antillarum" (Abstract). Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti, 2(1985): 233.
-----. "Lunar spawning cycles: an isolating mechanism in sea urchins separated by the Isthmus of Panama.” (An abstract). Proceedings of the Benthic Ecology Meetings, p. 24, 1983.
-----. "Possible prezygotic reproductive isolation in sea urchins separated by the Isthmus of Panama.” Evolution 38(5)(1984): 1144-1148.
-----. "Reproductive periodicity of nine Caribbean species of echinoids in Panama” (Abstract). Proceedings, 5th International Echinoderm Conference, 1984.
Lessios, Harilaos A., Cubit, John D., Robertson, D. Ross, Shulman, M.J., Parker, M.R., Garrity, Stephen D. and Levings, Sally C. "Mass mortality of Diadema antillarum on the Caribbean coast of Panama.” Coral Reefs 3(1984): 173-182.
Lessios, Harilaos A., Robertson, D. Ross, and Cubit, John D. "Spread of
Diadema mass mortality through the Caribbean.” Science 226(4672) (1984): 335-337.
Levings, Sally C. and Adams, Eldridge S. “Intraand interspecific territoriality in Nasutitermes (Isoptera: Termitidae) in a Panamanian mangrove forest.” Journal of Animal Ecology 53(3)(1984): 705-714.
Levings, Sally C. and Garrity, Stephen D. "Grazing patterns in Siphonaria
gigas (Mollusca, Pulmonata) on the rocky Pacific coast of Panama.” Oecologia 64(2)(1984): 152-159.
Levings, Sally C. and Windsor, Donald M. "Litter moisture content as a determinant of litter arthropod distribution and abundance during the dry season on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Biotropica 16(2)(1984): P25 US Ik

<<<Page: 196>>>

SSS . “Litter arthropod populations in a tropical deciduous forest: relationships between years and arthropod groups.” Journal of Animal Ecology 54(1985): 61-69.
Linares, Olga F. "Cash crops and gender constructs: the Jola of Senegal.” Ethnology 24(2)(1985): 83-93.
----“Peoples and resources in the tropics.” (Book review). Science 226(4677)(1984): 962-964.
SSS . "Prefacio” In: Los Ngawbere de la Peninsula Valiente, ed. INAC Direccion Nacional de Patrimonio Historico, p.3. Panama: INAC, 1985.
Lubchenco, Jane, Menge, Bruce A., Garrity, Stephen D., Lubchenco, Peggy R., Ashkenas, Linda R., Gaines, Steven D., Emlet, Richard, Lucas, John, and Strauss, Sharon. "Structure, persistance, -and role of consumers in a tropical rocky intertidal community (Taboguilla Island, Bay of Panama)." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 78(1/2)(1984): 23-73.
Lubin, Yael D. "Changes in the native fauna of the Galapagos Islands following invasion by the little red fire ant, Wasmannia auropunctata." Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 21(1/2)(1984): 229-242.
McDade, Lucinda A. "Systematics and reproductive biology of the Central American species of the Aphelandra pulcherrima complex (Acanthaceae).” Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 71(1)(1984): 104-165.
McDade, Lucinda A. and Davidar, Priya. “Determinants of fruit and seed set in Pavonia dasypetala (Malvaceae)." Oecologia 64(1)(1984): 61-67.
McNab, Brian K. “Physiological convergence amongst ant-eating and termite-eating mammals.” Journal of Zoology 203(4)(1984): 485.
Martin, Thomas E. "Resource selection by tropical frugivorous birds: integrating multiple interactions.” Oecologia 66(1985): 563-573.
Menge, Bruce A., Lubchenco, Jane and Ashkenas, Linda R. "Diversity, heterogeneity and consumer pressure in a tropical rocky intertidal community.” Oecologia 65(3)(1985): 394-405..
Meyer, J. Harlar, Zakon, Harold H., and Heiligenberg, Walter. "Steroid influences upon the electrosensory system of weakly electric fish: effects upon discharge frequencies with indirect effects upon
electroreceptor tuning.” Journal of Comparative Physiology 154A(1984): 625-631.
Meylan, Anne, Meylan, Peter and Ruiz, Argelis. “Nesting of Demochelys coriacea in Caribbean Panama.” Journal of Herpetology 19(2)(1985): 293=29)7%
Mielke, von Wolfgang. “Einige Paramesochridae (Copepoda) von Panama.”
Spixiana 7(3)(1984): 217-243.

<<<Page: 197>>>

Montgomery E. and Caldwell, Roy L. "Aggressive brood defense by females in the stomatopod Gonodactylus bredini.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 14(1984): 247-251.
Montgomery, G. Gene, Lee Mo., Claudette, Charity, Sandra, Riviero del Valle, Maria Beatriz, and Peralta, P.H. “Prevalencia del anticuerpo de encefaclitis de St. Louis en algunas aves marinas de Panama." Revista Medica de Panama 8(3)(1984): 212-221.
Montgomery, G. Gene and Martinez, Marta Lucia. "Timing of Brown Pelican nesting on Taboga island in relation to upwelling in the Bay of Panama." Colonial Waterbird 7(1984): 10-21.
Moynihan, Martin. Communication and Non-Communication by Cephalopods. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1985.
_ccc--. "Why are cephalopods deaf?" The American Naturalist 125(3)(1985): 465-469.
Mulkey, Stephen S., Smith, Alan P. and Young, Truman P. "Predation by elephants on Senecio Keniodendron (Compositae) in the Alpine zone of Mount Kenya.” Biotropica 16(3)(1984): 246-248.
Nentwig, Wolfgang. “Architis nitidopilosa, a neotropical pisaurid with a permanent catching web (Araneae, Pisauridae).” Bulletin of the British Arachnological Society 6(7)(1985): 297-303.
ae . "Feeding ecology of the tropical spitting spider Syctodes longipes
(Araneae, Scytodidae)." Oecologia 65(2)(1985): 284-288.
SS "Social spiders catch larger prey: a study of Anelosimus eximius
(Araneae: Theridiidae)."” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 17(1985): 79-85.
Piperno, Dolores R. “A comparison and differentiation of phytoliths from maize and wild grasses: use of morphological criteria." American
Antiquity 49(2)(1984): 361-383. ————— . The Application of Phytolith Analysis to the Reconstruction of Plant Subsistence and Environments in Prehistoric Panama. Ph.D.
dissertation, Temple University, 459p, 1983.
-----. "Phytolithic analysis of geological sediments from Panama.” Antiquity 59(1985): 13-19.
SSIS "Phytolith taphonomy and distributions in archeological sediments
from Panama.” Journal of Archaeological Science 12(1985): 247-267. Piperno, Dolores P. and Clary, Karen Husum. "Early plant use and
cultivation in the Santa Maria Basin, Panama: data from phytoliths and
pollen.” In: Recent Developments in Isthmian Archaeology, Proceedings
of the 44th International Congress of Americanists, ed. Frederick W. Lange, pp. 85-122, 1984.

<<<Page: 198>>>

Platenkamp, Gerrit A.J. "Seasonal fluctuations in the flight activity of aquatic Heteroptera (Nempomorpha) on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Studies on Neotropical Fauna and Environment 19(4)(1984): 201-208.
Power, Mary E. “Grazing responses of tropical freshwater fishes to different scales of variation in their food.” Environmental Biology of Fishes 9(2)(1983): 103-115.
SSS . “Habitat quality and the distribution of algae-grazing catfish in a Panamanian stream.” Journal of Animal Ecology 53(2)(1984): 357-374.
Putz, Francis E. “The natural history of lianas on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Ecology 65(6)(1984): 1713-1724.
Putz, Francis E., Coley, Phyllis D., Lu, Karen, Montalvo, Arlee M. and Aiello, Annette. "“Uprooting and snapping of trees on Barro Colorado Island." In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 263-266. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, P9S'5i.
Rand, A. Stanley. "Clutch size in Iguana iguana in Central Panama.” In: Vertebrate Ecology and Systematics, ed. R.A. Seigel, L.E. Hunt, J. Knight, L. Malaret and N.L. Zuschlag, pp. 115-122, 1984.
Read, Robert G. “Interaction of man and the microclimate in a tropical forest of Panama.” In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 411-414. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
Richmond, Robert H. “An energetic approach relating fecundity, growth and reproduction in the reef coral Pocillopora damicornis.” American
Zoologist 24(3)(1984): 131.
SSS . “Reversible metamorphosis in coral planula larvae." Marine Ecology Progress Series 22(1985): 181-185.
Richmond, Robert H. and Jokiel, Paul L. “Lunar periodicity in larva release in the reef coral Pocillopora damicornis at Enewetak and Hawati.” Bulletin of Marine Science 34(2)(1984): 280-287.
Richter, Wayne. "A structural approach to the function of butresses of Quararibea asterolepis."” Ecology 65(5)(1984): 1429-1435.
Rodaniche, Arcadio F. “Iteroparity in the lesser Pacific striped octopus Octopus chierchiae (Jatta, 1889)." Bulletin of Marine Science 35(1)(1984): 99-104.
Rodda, Gordon. “Movement of juvenile American crocodiles in Gatun Lake, Panama.” Herpetologica 40(4)(1984): 444-451.
Roman, Argelis C. "El manglar: un ecosistema en peligro.’
La Prensa May 21(1985).

<<<Page: 199>>>

-----. "Parque recreativo Natural Isla Margarita." Enciclopedia de la Cultura Panamefia para Niffos y Jévenes, Suplemento Educativo Cultural La Prensa, 48(1985): 19.
-----. "Salvemos nuestros patrimonios nacionales y riaturales.”
May 13(1985): 4B.
Roubik, David W. and Aquilera Peralta, Francisco Javier. “Thermodynamics in nests of two Melipona species in Brasil." Acta Amazonia 13(2) (1983): 453-466.
Roubik, David W. and Buchmann, Stephen L. “Nectar selection by Melipona and Apis mellifera (Hymenoptera: Apidae) and the ecology of nectar intake by bee colonies in a tropical forest.” Oecologia 61(1984): Hk.
Roubik, David W., Holbrook, N. Michele and*Parra V., German. "Roles of nectar robbers in reproduction of the tropical treelet Quassia amara (Simaroubaceae)." Oecologia 66(1985): 161-167.
Roubik, David W. and Michener, Charles D. "Nesting biology of Crawfordapis in Panama (Hymenoptera, Colletidae)." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 57(4)(1984): 662-671.
Roubik, David W. and Reyes, Francisco. "African honey bees have not brought acarine mite infestations to Panama.” American Bee Journal 124(9) (1984): 665-667.
Roubik, David W., Schmalzel, R.J. and Moreno, E. "Estudio apibotdnico de Panam4: cosecha y fuentes de polen y néctar usados por Apis mellifera y sus patrones estacionales y anuales. " Report submitted to USAID, 64p.
Ruiz, Argelis and Rand, Stanley. "Las iguanas y el hombre en Panama.” In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 243-249, Panam4: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
Ryan, Michael J. The Tingara Frog. A Study in. Sexual Selection and Communication. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1985.
Schwartz, Joshua J. and Wells, Kentwood D. ."Intraand interspecific vocal behavior of the neotropical treefrog Hyla microcephala.” Copeia VOS85CL) GL985) 2" 27=338..
—----. "Vocal behavior of the neotropical treefrog Hyla phlepodes." Herpetologica 40(4)(1984): 452-463.
Sexton, Owen. “Transport of deer by Choco." In: The Botany and Natural
History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed.
William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 345-346. Saint Louis,
Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
La Prensa

<<<Page: 200>>>

Shelley, Todd E. “Ecological comparisons of robber fly species (Diptera: Asilidae) coexisting in a neotropical forest.” Oecologia 67(1)(1985): 57-70.
Shulman, Myra J. “Resource limitation and recruitment patterns in a coral reef fish assemblage.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 74(1)(1984): 85-109.
Silberglied, Robert E. "Visual communication and sexual selection among butterflies." In: The Biology of Butterflies, ed. Richard I. Vane-Wright and Phillip R. Ackery, pp. 207-223, London: Academic Press, 1984.
Smith, Alan P. "“Postdispersal parent-offspring conflict in plants: antecedent and hypothesis from the Andes." The American Naturalist 123(3) (1984): 354-370.
Smith, Neal G. “Nesting associations." In: A Dictionary of Birds, ed. Bruce Campbell and Elizabeth Lack, pp. 389-391. The British Ornithologists' Union, 1985.
— . “Sharpbill."” In: A Dictionary of Birds, ed. Bruce Campbell and Elizabeth Lack, p. 533. The British Ornithologists' Union, 1985.
Sork, Victoria L. “Germination response in a large-seeded neotropical tree species, Gustavia superba (Lecythidaceae)." Biotropica 17(2) (1985): 130-136.
Steger, Rick and Caldwell, Roy L. “Intraspecific deception by bluffing: a defense strategy of newly molted stomatopods (Arthropoda: Crustacea)." Science 221(1983): 558-560.
Steiner, Kim E. "The role of nectar and oil in the pollination of Drymonia serrulata (Gesneriaceae) by Epicharis bees (Anthophoridae) in Panama." Biotropica 17(3): 217-229.
Sugden, Andrew M. “Aerial walkways in rain forest canopies: construction and use in Panama, Papua New Guinea, and Sulawesi." In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 207-219. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
Sullivan Caldwell, Gloria and Rubinoff, Roberta Wolff. "Avoidance of
venomous sea snakes by naive herons and egrets." The Auk 100(1)(1983): 195-198.
Suman, Daniel. "El oleoducto: efectos y peligros de su operacién.” In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 27/-298, Panam4: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.

<<<Page: 201>>>

Sussman, R.W. and Kinzey, W.G. "The ecological role of the Callitrichidae: a review." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 64(4)(1984): 419-449.
Taylor, Phillip R. and Hay, Mark E. "Functional morphology of intertidal seaweeds: adaptive significance of aggregate vs. solitary forms.” Marine Ecology-Progress Series 18(1984): 295-302.
Telesca T., Antonio and Visuetti E., Ileana A. Estudio del crecimiento y la migracién horizontal de Protothaca asperrima Sowerby, 1835 (Lamellibranchia: Veneridae) en la Bahia de Bique, Panama. Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1985.
Thorne, Barbara L. “Las termitas neotropicales como colonizadoras de monticulos creados por Arboles caidos: informe preliminar.” In: The Botany and Natural History of Panama: La Botanica e Historia Natural de Panama, ed. William G. D'Arcy and Mireya D. Correa A., pp. 111-113. Saint Louis, Missouri: Missouri Botanical Garden, 1985.
-----. "Polygyny in the Neotropical termite Nasutitermes corniger: life history consequences of queen mutualism."” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 14(2)(1984): 117-136.
Vasquez Montoya, R and Thomassin, B. "Contribucién al conocimiento de los anélidos poliquetos de las praderas de Thalassia testudinum y Halodule sp. del sector de Punta Galeta (Panam4, Provincia de Colén)." Anales del Instituto de Ciencias del Mar y Limnologia 20(1)(1985): 1-10.
Ventocilla, Jorge. "El Monumento Natural Barro Colorado." Enciclopedia de la Cultura para Niffos y Jévenes, Suplemento Educativo Cultural de La Prensa, Panama, 48(1985): 8-9.
~----. "El "Refugio de Vida Silvestre" Islas Taboga y Urabd, un hogar seguro para los pelicanos.” Eciclopedia de la Cultura para Nifios y Jévenes, Suplemento Educativo Cultural de La Prensa, Panama, 48(1985): 17-18.
=——-—— . "La avifauna: riqueza natural de Panama.” Enciclopedia de la Cultura para Nifios y Jévenes, Suplemento Educativo Cultural de La Prensa, Panama, 45(1985): 2-6.
-—---. "La iguana: un recurso natural renovable. "
Abridh VEl984)i: I 245° 23).
Supplemento El Istmo
Ventocilla, Jorge and Gonzalez, Alvaro. "Los pelfcanos de Taboga."” In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 251-256, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
Weinberg, James R. "Interactions between functional groups in soft-substrata: do species differences matter?" Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 80(1)(1984): 11-28.

<<<Page: 202>>>

Wells, Kentwood D. and Schwartz, Joshua J. “Vocal communication in a neotropical treefrog, Hyla ebraccata: advertisement calls.” Animal Behaviour 32(2)(1984): 405-420.
Werner, Dagmar. "Research on management of an endangered species in Panama: the green iguana.” Biological Conservation Newsletter: 21(1984): 1-2.
West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Sexual selection, competitive communication, and species-specific signals in insects." In: Insect Communication,
ed. Trevor Lewis. Proceedings of the 12th Symposium of the Royal Entomological Society of London, pp. 283-324. London: Academic Press, 1984.
Wheeler, Diana E. "Behavior of the ant, Procryptocerus scabriusculus (Hymenoptera: Formicidae), with comparisons to other cephalotines.” Psyche 91(3-4)(1984): 171-192.
Willis, Edwin 0. “Anis (Aves, Cuculidae) as army ant followers.” Revista Brasileira de Biologia 43(1)(1983): 33-44.
eae 'Longevities of some Panamanian forest birds, with note of low survivorship in old spotted antibirds (Hylophylax naevioides).” Journal of Field Ornithology 54(4)(1983): 413-414.
-----. "Playa cuckoos (Aves, Ciuculidae) as army ant followers.”
Brasileira de Biologia 43(1)(1983): 29-32.
Revista
-----. "Toucans (Ramphastidae) and hornbills (Bucerotidae) as ant followers." Le Gerfaut 73(1983): 239-242.
-----. "“Touracos (Musophagidae), woodpeckers (Picidae), and ovenbirds (Furnariidae) as indirect ant followers." Ciencia e Cultura 35(6)(1983): 804-807.
= ."“Trans-Andean Xiphorhynchus (Aves, Dendrocolaptidae) as army ant followers.” Revista Brasileira de Biologia 43(2)(1983): 125-131.
Windsor, Donald M. and Rand, Stanley. “Cambios climaticos en los registros de lluvias en Panama y Costa Rica." In: Agonia de la Naturaleza. Ensayos sobre el costo ambiental del desarrollo Panamefio, ed. Stanley Heckadon Moreno and Jaime Espinosa Gonzalez, pp. 147-164, Panama: Instituto de Investigacién Agropecuaria de Panama and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1985.
Winston, Judith E. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Biomass accumulation and community development in cryptic coral reef environments." Proceedings of the Fifth International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti, 2(1985): 408.
-----. “Ecology of cryptic coral reef communities. IV. Community development and life histories of encrusting cheilostome Bryozoa.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 76(1984): 1-21.

<<<Page: 203>>>

Wittman, D. “Aerial defense of the nest by workers of the stingless bee Trigona (Tetragonisca) angustula (Latreille) (Hymenoptera: Apidae).” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 16(2)(1985): 111-114.
Wolda, Henk. “Diversidad de la entomofauna y como medirla.” Informe
Final IX CLAZ Peri, October, pp. 181-186, 1984.
---—-. "Diversity and seasonality of Panamanian cicadas.” Mitteilungender Schweizerischen Entomologischen Gesellchaft 57(1984): ASME
-----. "Variacién estacional en la abundancia de la plaga del maiz Peregriaus maidis (Ashmead) (Homoptera, Delphacidae) en Panama.” Revista Colombiana de Entomologfa 8(1984): 35-39.
Wolda, Henk and Broadhead, E. “Seasonality of Psocoptera in two tropical forests of Panama.” Journal of Animal Ecology 54(1985): 519-530.
Wong, Marina. "Behavioral indication of an African origin for the Malaysian Honeyguide Indicator archipelagicus." Bulletin of the British Ornithologists' Club 104(2)(1984): 57-60.
-----. "The birds of China, by R. Meyer de Schauensee."
The Auk 102(2)(1985): 431-432.
(Book review).----. "Fauna Sinica, Series Vertebrata. Aves 2: Anseriformes, by Z.X. Zheng and others.” (Book review). The Auk 101(1)(1984): 215-217.
-----. "Les oiseaux de Chine, de Mongolie et de Coree; Passereaux, by R.D. Etchecopar and F. Hue." (Book review). The Auk 101(1)(1984): 2NO=25152)<
SSS "Understory birds as indicators of regeneration in a patch
of selectively logged West Malaysian Rainforest.” In: Conservation of
Tropical Forest Birds, eds. A.W. Diamond and T.E. Lovejoy, ICBP Technical Publication 4(1985): 249-263.
Wright, S. Joseph. “How isolation affects rates of turnover of species on islands.” Oikos 44(1985): 331-340.
Wright, S. Joseph, Faaborg, John and Campbell, Claudia J. “Birds from tightly structured communities in the Pearl Archipelago, Panama.” Ornithological Monographs 36(1985): 798-812.
Yant, Philip R., Karr, James R. and Angermeier, Paul L. "“Stochasticity in fish communities: an alternative interpretation.” 124(1)(1984): 573-582.
Young, Orrey P. "“Perching of neotropical dung beetles on leaf surfaces: an example of behavioral thermoregulation.” Biotropica 16(4)(1984): 324-32]
Zucker, Naida. “Delayed courtship in the fiddler crab Uca musica
terpsichores.” Animal Behaviour 32(3)(1984): 735-742.
American Naturalist

<<<Page: 204>>>

Brown, Robert F. "Waldo Observed." In Waldo Peirce, A New Assessment. Orono, Maine: University of Maine, 1984.
"Regional Office Report New England." Archives
of American Art Journal, 24(1-4).
Karlstrom, Paul T. "Regional Office Report West Coast." Archives of American Art Journal, 24(1-4).
"Jackson Pollack and Louis Bunce." Archives of American Art Journal, 24(2).
Kendall, Sue Ann. "Regional Office Report Midwest." Archives of American Art Journal, 24(1-4).
Kirwin, Liza. "Regional Office Report Mid-Atlantic." Archives of American Art Journal, 24(1-4).
Levy, Sandra J. "Regional Office Report Texas Project." Archives of American Art Journal, 24(1-4).
McCoy, Garnett. "Editorial Note." Archives of American Art Journal,
24(1-4).
McNaught, William. "Regional Office Report New York." Archives of American Art Journal, 24(1-4).
Paul, Stella. "Regional Office Report Southern California." Archives of American Art Journal, 24(2-4).

<<<Page: 205>>>

CENTER FOR ASIAN ART FREER GALLERY OF ART and the ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Beach, Milo C. "Mughal Tents." Orientations, vol. 16, no. 1 (January 1985): 32-43, . The Art of India and Pakistan. Durham, N. C., Duke University Institute of Arts, 1985, Chase, W. Thomas, III, with Nicolas F. Veloz. ''Some Considerations in Surface Treatment of Outdoor Metal Sculptures."" The American
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works Preprints, Thirteenth Annual Meeting, Washington
gy 1 DG Cl. 22226) May (1985): 23=35%
Cort, Louise A. "Ceramics and the Tea Ceremony." Apollo, vol. CXXI, no. 276 (February 1985): 120-123.
. "Temple Potters of Puri.” res. 7/8 (Spring/Autumn 1984): 33-43,
Fu, Shen C. Y. "Han-shih t'ieh, The Best Calligraphic Work under Heaven by the Sung Master Su Shih (1036-1101)." (In Chinese)
The National Palace Museum Monthly of Chinese Art, no. 19 (October 1984): 76-85.
. A Period Division and the Influence of Yen Chen-ch'ing's Calligraphy. (In Chinese with a summary in English). Taipei , 1984.
. "The Influence of the T'ang Master Yen Chen-ch'ing on the Calligraphv of the Ming Master Tung Ch’i-ch'ang (1555-1636)." (In Chinese) The National Palace Museum Monthly of Chinese Art, no. 21 (December.1984): 96-103.
"The Genuine and Forged Calligraphic Works of Po Ch'u-
chih (772-846) and Chang Chi-chih (1186-1266)."' (In Chinese). The National Palace Museum Monthly of Chinese Art, no. 26 (May MOSS) Rely 18a 125%
. "Reproduction and Forgery in Chinese Calligraphy." (In Chinese) Shufa yen chiu (Studies in Calligraphy), Shanghai, vol. 18 (December 1984): 93-115.
Jett, Paul, with Shelley Sturman and Terry Drayman Weissen. "A Study of the Egyptian Bronze Falcon Figures in the Walters Art Gallery." Studies in Conservation, vol. 30, no. 3, London. (Scheduled for publication August 1985.
Lowry, Glenn D. Fatehpur-Sikri: A Sourcebook, ed. with Michael Brand. Cambridge: Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture at Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1985.
Towry, Glenn D. With Michael Brand, Akbar'’s India: Art from the Mughal City of Victory. New York: The Asia Society, 1985./Review/ "l'art Islamique, by M. S. Simpson." MESA Bulletin. vol. 18, no. 2 (December 1984): 253-254. » /Review/ "Die Paithan-Malerie, by A. L. Dallapiccola." Indo-Iranian Journal. (December 1984). Winter, John with Elisabeth West FitzHugh. ''Some Technical Notes on Whistler's 'Peacock Room.'"' Studies in Conservation, vol. 30, no. 3, London. (Scheduled for publication August 1985). "Some Material Points in the Care of East Asian Paintings." International Journal of “Museum Management and Curatorship, vol. 4, Toncon. Scheduled for nunlication Sentember 1925).

<<<Page: 206>>>

Dee, Elaine Evans. Designed for Theater, Drawings and Prints from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Detroit: Detroit Institute of Arts, 1984.
Dee, Elaine Evans and Joice, Gail. Old Master Prints from The Wallerstein Collection. Seattle: Seattle Art Museum, 1984.
Martinez, Katharine. Timeless Sources: Rare Books in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1985.
McFadden, David Revere. "Documents of Design: Silver at Cooper-Hewitt Museum." (Part II of 2 parts.) The Magazine Silver, vol. 17, no. 2 (March-April, 1984), pp. 8-15.
. "Documents of Design: The Silversmiths' Legacy," The Minneapolis
Institute of Arts Antique Show 1984 Catalogue. Minneapolis: 1984, pp.
41-48,
"Cooper-Hewitt Museum, New York: Design for the Nation," Theta
House Charity Antiques Show Catalogue. Houstcn: Texas, 1984, pp. 76-81. "A Question of Choice," Sweden Now, vol. 18, no. 6 (1984), pp. 22-25.
"Design is Also a Verb," Form Function Finland, no. 2 (Spring 1985). New American Glass: The State of the Art in the States," introductory essay for a catalogue of an exhibition at Kulturhuset, Stockholm, Sweden, 1985. Juror's statement: "New Glass, 1985," Neues Glas, Germany. General editor, Wine: Celebration and Ceremony, exhibition catalogue. "Celebration and Ceremony: Patterns of Ritual," from above. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1985. "Classics in Context,” Finland Living Design. New York: Rizzoli International Publications, Inc., 1984, pp. 12-13. "Tapio Wirkkala," gallery guide for exhibition. New York: IBM Gallery of Science and Art, 1985. Moss, Gillian. Theater Designs in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York: Cooner-Hewitt Museum, «1985.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Demetrion, James T. (Foreword) Representation Abroad by Joe
Shannon. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1985.
Gettings, Frank. Artists and Models: Portraits from the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Brochure. Washington, D.c.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.
=--—-. Forum: Picasso's 'Portrait of Dora Maar'. Drawing.
The International Review published by The Drawing Society... Vol’. Vil, Now 10), May/gune,985i, pg. “Ox

<<<Page: 207>>>

McCabe, Cynthia Jaffee. Immigrant Artists/American Experi-
ence. Exhibition catalogue. New York: Independent Curators Incorporated, 1985.
SSSSS= . The Internationalization of American Art. Humanities OC February 905) appeal 2)
-----. (Preface) The Miami Generation: 9 Cuban American Artists. Philadelphia: Balch Institute for Ethnic Studles, 1985
Millard, Charles. Jack Bush in the 1970s. Jack Bush, Toronto,» 1984,: pp! 48-59.
aim mo ome . The Gardens of Kyoto in Summer. The Hudson Review, Summer, 1985, pp. 182-192.
Rosenzweig, Phyllis. Some Notes on Richard Nonas's Work, Richard Nonas. Exhibition catalogue. Roslyn Harbor, New York: Nassau County Museum of Fine Art, 1985.
Zilezer, Judith. Alfred Stieglitz and John Quinn: Allies in the American Avant-Garde. American Art Journal 17, no. 3 (Summer 1985): 20-33.
Reingold, Nathan. '"Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Meets the Atom Bomb." In Expository Science: Forms and Functions of Popularisation, eds.
T. Shinn and R. Whitley. Sociology of the Sciences 9 (1985):
229-245.
Reingold, Nathan, and Bodansky, Joel N. "The Sciences, 1850-1900, a North Atlantic Perspective." Biological Bulletin 168 (suppl.) (1985) :44-61.
Reingold, Nathan; Rothenberg, Marc; Dorman, Kathleen W. and Theerman, Paul, eds. The Papers of Joseph Henry. Vol. 5,
The Princeton Years, January 1841-December 1843. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
Rothenberg, Marc. "History of Astronomy," Osiris 1 2nd Series (1985):117-131.
"America's Independence: Political and Scientific." TInterdisciplinary Science Reviews 9 (1984) :339-346.
Theerman, Paul H. "Unaccustomed Role: The Scientist as Historical Biographer--Two Nineteenth-Century Portrayals of Newton." Biography,
An Interdisciplinary Quarterly 8 (1985):145-152.
Bertin, Margaret. . Wichita Decorative Arts National Exhibition. Wichita Art Association, September 1985.
Manthorne, Katherine. Creation and Renewal: Views of Cotopaxi by Frederic Edwin Church. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985 (English and Spanish editions).
Panzer, Nora. Art & Literature: Supplementary Reading for Exploration in American Art. Washington, D.C.: NMAA Publication, 1984.

<<<Page: 208>>>

. . 9th Decade (London, England), 1985.
Renwick Gallery, . The Flexible Medium. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Duplicating, 1984.
_Truettner, William H. "Dressing the Part: Thomas Eakins's
Portrait of Frank Hamilton Cushing.” The American Art Journal, XVII, 2 (Spring 1985).

<<<Page: 209>>>

Department of the History of Science and Technology
Daniel, Pete. Breaking the Land: The Transformation of Cotton, Tobacco, and Rice Cultures since 1880. Champaign: University of Illinois Press,
1985.
Davis, Audrey. Obituary of Walter Pagel, Isis 75 (1984): 363-365.
----=. "Dentistry and its Image in the Nineteenth Century.” Medical Collectors' Association Newsletter 2 (March 1985): 1-10.
Saae . "Society Business.” Isis 76 (1985): 213-215.
Ezell, Edward C. The Great Rifle Controversy: Search for the Ultimate Infantry Weapon from World War II Through Vietnam and Beyond. Harrisburg, Pa.: Stackpole Books, 1984.
SS Small Arms Today: Latest Reports on the World's Weapons and Ammunition. Harrisburg, Pa.: Stackpole Books, 1984.
Green, Rayna, ed. That's What She Said: Contemporary Fiction and Poetry by Native American Women. Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1984.
Ss “Love At First Byte: Word Play and Imagination in the New Machine Age." Cocona 5 (October 1985).
-----. “Wasted Away Again in Margaritaville: The Cult of Nachismo and the New American Cuisine.” The Digest (October 1985).
Kidwell, Peggy Aldrich. "Women Astronomers in Britain, 1780-1930." Isis (September 1984).
SSSSS . “Elijah Hinsdale Burritt and 'The Geography of the Heavens.'" Sky and Telescope (January 1985).
Kondratas, Ramunas. Biographical sketches of Samuel Clagett Busey, Charles R. Drew, George Martin Kober, George Lloyd Magruder, Frederick May, Thomas Miller, Mary Almera Parsons, Robert Rayburn, and George Tully Vaughan. In Dictionary of American Medical Biography, edited by Martin Kaufman et al. 2 vols. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1984.
SSS . "The Community Pharmacy." New York: Ayerst Laboratories, 1985.
=—————— . "Pharmaceutical Botany." New York: Ayerst Laboratories, 1985.
SS . "Pills and Other Solid Dosage Forms.” New York: Ayerst Laboratories, 1985.
Langley, Harold. Biographical sketch of Admiral John Rogers. In
Dictionary of American Military History. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1985. Lubar, Steven. “Customize Your Wordstar!" Washington Area Rainbow
User's Group Newsletter (February, 1984). i . . Managerial Structure and Technological Style: The Textile Mills
of Lowell, Massachusetts," Economic and Business History, 2d series, TS GE984)).
=~ . “A Career in History." In How to Get There From MIT. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1984.
Melosh, Barbara, and Christina Simmons. “Exhibiting Women's History."
In Presenting the Past, edited by Susan Porter Benson, Stephen Brier, and Roy Rosenzweig. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1985. Melosh, Barbara, comp. American Nurses in Fiction. New York: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1984. “"Every Woman Is a Nurse': Work and Gender in the Emergence of American Nursing.” In Send Us a Lady Physician, edited by Maura Walsh. 985).

<<<Page: 210>>>

-----. “Museum Exhibits: Breaking the Science,” Organization of American Historians Newsletter 13, no. 2 (May, 1985): 23-24.
Merzbach, Uta C. “Idolatry, Automorphic Functions, and Conceptual Change. Reflections on the Historiography of Nineteenth-Century Mathematics.” In Transformation and Tradition in the Sciences. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1984.
Molella, Arthur P. “At the Edge of Science: Joseph Henry, Visionary Theorizers, and the Smithsonian.” Annals of Science 11 (1984): 445-461.
Molella, Arthur P., with Bernard Finn. "History of Electricity at the Smithsonian.” IEEE Transactions in Education E-27 (1984): 218-225.
Post, Robert C., and Otto Mayr, eds. Yankee Enterprise: The Rise of the American System of Manufactures. Japanese translation. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.
Post, Robert C. "Patent Models: Symbols for an Era." In American Enterprise: Nineteenth-Century Patent Models, edited by Robert C. Post. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1984.
=————— . "From the Editor.” Drag Racing 1 (November 1984): 4.
<a . ed. Every Four Years '84: The American Presidency. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.
Sharrer, Terry. American Anthem: An Exhibit of Songs and Symbols of American History. Dallas: Trammel Crow Company, 1985.
Staudenmaier, John M. "Foreword," Technology's Storytellers: Reweaving the Human Fabric. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1985.
Stephens, Carlene. "Before Standard Time: Distributing Time in 19th-Century America." Vistas in Astronomy 28 (July 1985): 113-118.
—== . "“Schreibund Rechenmaschinensch a tze der Smithsonian Institution.” Historische Burowelt 10 (July 1985): 7-10.
Vogel, Robert M. “Industrial Structures." In Built in the U.S.A., American Buildings from Airports to Zoos, edited by Diane Maddox. Washington, D.C.: The Preservation Press, 1985.
SSS "Cornwall Iron Furnace.” American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1985.
SS . "Draughting the Steam Engine.” Railroad History 152 (1985): 17-28.
SSS . "Casting About & Forging Ahead: The Preservation & Restoration
of Historic Iron-Working Sites in the United States.” In Ironworks and
Iron Monuments: Study, Conservation, & Adaptive Use. Rome: ICCROM, 985%
Warner, Deborah J. Introduction to facsimile edition of Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue of Optical, Mathematical and Philosophical Instruments 1856 by Benjamin Pike, Jr., 1984.
SSS . "William J. Young: From Craft to Industry in a Skilled Trade.” Pennsylvania History 52 (1985): 53-68.
-----. "Star Charts: Their Lore and Meaning." In Celestial Images. Boston: Boston University Art Gallery, 1985.
White, John H., Jr. “Another Early Snowplow.” Railroad History 151 (Autumn 1984): 6-9.
ae . "The Lion and the Dragon: The First Railway in China.” National Railway Bulletin 50, no. 1 (1985): 34-41.
-—---. “More on Matthew.” American Heritage (February/March 1985): 108-109.
ae . "Profile: Why Write History.” Railroad History 152 (Spring 1985): 6-12.
——-----, "The Steam Engine in Prints and Photographs." Railroad History £52 (Spring 2985)e~29=41%

<<<Page: 211>>>

SS . “Almost on the Right Track: The Densmore Tank Car." Pennsylvania Heritage (Summer 1985): 12-17.
Withuhn, William L. "The 1984 Railroad History Awards.” Railroad History 151 (Autumn 1984): 6-9.
Withuhn, William L., with Linn Moedinger. “The Pennsy Pulled a Fast One!" Railfan & Railroad (September 1985): 36-42.
York, Neil Langley “Foreword,” Mechanical Metamorphosis: Technological Change in Revolutionary America. Westport, Comn.: Greenwood Press, 1985).
Department of Social and Cultural History
Adrosko, Rita J. “American Coverlet Looms.” In Made in New York State, Handwoven Coverlets 1820-1860. Watertown, N.Y.: The Jefferson County Historical Society, 1985.
Harris, Elizabeth. "Wilkes'Die Entwicklung der eisermen Buchdruckerpresse” Fine Print (1985).
Mayo, Edith, ed. American Material Culture: The Shape of Things Around Us. Bowling Green, Ohio: Bowling Green University Press, 1985.
Melder, Keith. "A History of Partisan Press,” Campaigns & Elections (Spring 1985).
Meider, Keith. "The Birth of Modern Campaigning, (Summer 1985).
Roth, Rodris. “The New England, or ‘Olde Tyme,' Kitchen Exhibits at Nineteenth-Century Fairs.” In The Colonial Revival in America, edited by Alan Axelrod. New York: W.W. Norton and Company, 1985.
Rubenstein, Harry. "Collecting for Tomorrow: Sweden's Contemporary Documentation Program." Museum News (August 1985): 55-60.
Wright, Helena. "Ephemera at the Smithsonian Institution," AB Bookman's Weekly (March 4, 1985): 1571-1594.
Campaigns & Elections
Department of Public Programs
Cherkasky, Shirley, comp. Paper Crafts for the Holidays. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1984
aaa acaere Holiday Recipes from Our Ethnic Heritage. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1984.
Kemp, Barbara, and Shirley Cherkasky. Eleanor Roosevelt's Washington. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1984.
National Philatelic Collection
Bruns, James H. “National Philatelic Collection Library Houses Outstanding Literature Selection." Linn's Stamp News (October 8, 1984).
= . The First Highway Post Office. Mobile Post Office Society, 1985.
SS “A Case of Something that was Overblown." The Transit Postmark Collector (July-August 1985).
SSS "Henry Jarrett's Annapolis Provisional Fakes." The United
States Specialist 56, no. 1 (1985): 33-39.----—— ‘Letters at War." The United States Specialist, 56, no. 4 (1985): 159-166.

<<<Page: 212>>>

-----. “Letters at War.” The United States Specialist 56, no. 5 (1985): 205-210.
a . "Remembering the Catcher Arm." The United States Specialist 56, no..6..,(1985) 2281-82. GA kD Leg ae 2
—-----, "Little Letters of World War II." Stamp Action 1 no. 1, (1985):
= . “It's All on the Stamp." (1985): 360-65.
------. "Owney's Story." Stamp Action 1, no. 2 (1985): 4-5.
The United States Specialist 56, no. 8
National Numismatic Collection
Cancio, Leopoldo. "El Cid and his Money”. Gaceta Numismatica 73 (1984): ily earls
SSS . “Inflation in Portugal as evidenced through the centuries by its coinage.” Gaceta Numismatica 77 (1985): 21-22.
Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira, “Copper Coinages and the Monetary Economy of the Early United States." In America's Copper Coinage 1783-1857. New York: The American Numismatic Society, 1985.
aaa . Numismatic Bibliography. Munich: Battenberg Verlag, 1985.
————-= . "V.D. Brenner.” Medallic Sculpture. (Spring 1985): 3-8.
Gillilland, Cory. "Early American Copper Coinage in Relation to the Art and Taste of the Period.” In America's Copper Coinage, 1783-1857. New York: The American Numismatic Society, 1985.
SS . "85 FIDEM Congress.” Coin World (July 10, 1985): 1-3.
= . "“Medallic Treasures." The Robb Report 9, no. 3 (March 1985:
=== . "Medals Evoke Moods of Individual Artists." Coin World (July 3, 1985): 27-28.
Hebert, Raymond J. "An Anonymous Isfahan Bronze Dated in the Monkey Year." Numismatics International Bulletin 18, no. 12 (December 1984): 3/9=375:
SS . "I. Marian Shrine Devotional Medals: Our Lady of Lourdes.” Numorum 4, no. 1 (Winter 1984): 3-8.
SSS . "St. George, the Dragon, and the Holy Family." Numismatics International Bulletin 19, no. 5 (May 1985): 137-139.
= . "A Devotional Medal Commemorating a Multiple Canonization in 1671." Numismatics International Bulletin 19, no. 1 (June 1985):
Vosloh, Lynn W., with Peter Huntoon. "A Unique Error and Great Rarity.” Paper Money Magazine 24, no. 3 (May-June, 1985): 114-133.
Vosloh, Lynn W. Modern Gold Coinage 1984. Washington, D.C.: The Gold Institute, 1985.
SSS . Modern Silver Coinage 1984. Washington, D.C.: The Gold Institute, 1985.
Archives Center
Baty, Laurie A. Emily Hayden: Early Maryland Photographer. Towson, Md.: Goucher College, 1985.
Fleckner, John A. Native American Archives: An Introduction. Chicago: Society of American Archives, 1984,

<<<Page: 213>>>

Haberstitch, David A. "Sally Stein on FSA Color,” “Reflections on Curatorship and Connoisseurship,” and "Photographers of the Mid-Atlantic Region.” Available Light (September 1985): 11-18. e Harding, Robert S. Register of the George H. Clark Radioana Collection c. 1880-1950. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1985.
Afro-American Communities Project
Horton, James 0. "Double Consciousness: Afro-American Identity in the Nineteenth Century.” In Sharing Traditions: Five Black Artists in Nineteenth-Century America, edited by Lynda Roscoe Hartigan. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
National Portrait Gallery
Barber, James G. U.S. Grant: The Man and the Image. The National Portrait Gallery in association with Southern Illinois University Press, Carbondale and Edwardsville, 1985.
Carr, Carolyn K. "Double Take: Master Otis Barton and his Grandfather by William Merritt Chase", The Currier Gallery of Art Bulletin,
1984.
Christman, Margaret C. S. "Costumes" (at Historic Deerfield), The Magazine Antiques 127 (3) (March 1985): 680-683.
Cox, Beverly J. and Denna Jones Anderson. Miguel Covarrubias Caricatures.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984. Fabian, Monroe H. Joseph Wright, American Artist, 1756-1793. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
Fern, Alan M. (Review) Bauhaus Photography, MIT Press, 1985, in The New York Times Book Review, September 22, 1985.
(Review) Herbert Bayer: The Complete Work by Arthur A. Cohen, MIT Press, 1984, in AIGA Journal of Graphic Design, Vol. 3, No. 3, Autumn 1985. (Foreword) Joseph Wright, American Artist, 1756-1793 by Monroe H. Fabian, 1985.
(Foreword) Miguel Covarrubias Caricatures by Beverly J. Cox and Denna Jones Anderson, 1984.
New American Posters (exhibition brochure). Manchester, New Hampshire: Currier Gallery of Art, March 1985.
"Portraits: Imperial, Official, and Personal," essay in People And Power: Portraits from the Federal Village. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1985.

<<<Page: 214>>>

(Foreword) A Truthful Likeness: Chester Harding and His Portraits.
Washington, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery, 1985. (Foreword) U.S. Grant: The Man and the Image by James G. Barber, 1985.
. (Foreword) William Edward West (1788-1857): Kentucky Painter. Washington, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery, 1985.
Hart, Sidney. "A Graphic Case of Transatlantic Republicanism", The Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography CIX (2) (April 1985): 203-213.
Henderson, Amy. (Review) James Barbour,‘ A Jeffersonian Republican by Charles D. Lowery, in History, Reviews of New Books, April 1985.
Miller, Lillian B. "The Puritan Portrait: Its Function in Old and New England", Seventeenth-Century New England. Edited by David D. Hall and David Grayson Allen. The Colonial Society of Massachusetts. Charlottesville, Virginia: University of Virginia Press, 1985.
"Rembrandt Peale: The Career of An American Old Master",
Rembrandt Peale 1778-1860. A Life in the Arts, catalogue for an
exhibition at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, February 22,
1985 to June 28, 1985. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: Historical
Society of Pennsylvania, 1985.
Voss, Frederick S. Packaging Presidents: Campaign Memorabilia from Presidential Campaigns Past. Hudson River Museum, 1984.
(Review) The Lincoln Image: Abraham Lincoln and the Popular Print by Harold Holzer, et al., New York, 1984, in Winterthur Portfolio, Spring, 1985.
Yellis, Ken. "Getting It Down on Paper." The Journal of Museum Education: Roundtable Reports, Vol. 10, No. 2, Spring, 1985.
Yellis, Ken; and Education Department Staff. ''Variations on a Theme: A Tribute to the American Musical Theater" (September 1984); "A Lone Wolf," "Women's Work," and "Eleanor" (October 1984); "Mencken in Winter: Reveries of an Iconoclast" (December 1984); 'In Good Company" (January 1985); "Lou: The Remarkable Miss Alcott" (January 1985); "Not Above a Whisper" (January 1985); "Enter Frederick Douglass" (February 1985); "The Sage of Emporia" (March 1985); "A Bright and Steady Flame: The Brilliant Miss Katharine Cornell" (May 1985); "A Charles Ives Decoration Day" (May 1985); "Walt Whitman: Liberal and Lusty as Nature" (May 1985); "Journey Through the Mind...Edgar Allan Poe" (June 1985), Portraits in Motion Program Notes.

<<<Page: 215>>>

i) (@)
Washburn, Wilcomb E. "The Shaping of an American Ideology," Commentary page, The Washington Times, September 11,.1984.
. "Indian Policy Since the 1880s," chapter in The Aggressions of Civilization: Federal Indian Policy Since the 1880s, edited by Sandra L. Cadwalader and Vine Deloria, Jr. (Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1984), pp. 45-57.
"Nach 50 Jahren: Ruckblick auf das Indian Reorganization Act (IRA)" (German translation of "A Fifty-Year Perspective on the Indian Reorganization Act") Amedian, News from Native America (Berichte aus dem indianischen Amerika), Vol. 12, No. 6/84, November 1984, pp. 7-11. :
"Pulling the Plug on the Sandinistas,"
page, The Washington Times, January 2, 1985.
Commentary
"Star Wars Scheme Protection Against U.S. Weakness as Well as Soviet Might," Columns page, The Miami News, January 24, 1985.
. "Ethical Perspectives in North American Ethnology," (in Social Contexts of American Ethnology, 1840-1984; 1984 Proceedings of the American Ethnological Society, June Helm, Editor and Symposium Organizer, and Stuart Plattner, Proceedings Editor (Washington: American Anthropological Association, 1985), pp. 50-64.
"Indianer und Weisse: Die Geschichte ihrer Beziehung," chapter in Indianische Kunst im 20.Jahrhundert, edited by Gernard Hoffmann (Munchen: Prestel-Verlag, 1985), pp. 15-21.
"The Southeast in the Age of Conflict and Revolution," in Alabama and the Borderlands: From Prehistory to Statehood, edited by R. Reid Badger and Lawrence A. Clayton (University, Alabama: University of Alabama Press, 1985), pp. 143-153.
"Constructive Engagement and the U.S.S.R.," Commen-
tary page, The Washington Times, August 23, 1985.

<<<Page: 216>>>

Beaudry, M. P. "Ceramic Production and Distribution in the Southeastern Maya Periphery. Late Classic Painted Serving Vessels."' BAR International Series 203. British Archaeological Reports 1. Oxford, 1984.
Bishop, R. L.; Reents, D.J.; Harbottle, G.; Sayre, E. V.; and van Zelst, L.
"The Area Groups: An Example of Style and Paste Compositional Covariation in Maya Pottery." In Fifth Palengue Roundtable, 1983, edited by Merle Greene Robertson and Virginia M. Fields. Pre-Columbian Art Institute, Hearld Printers, Monterey. pp. 79-84, 1985.
Blackman, M. J. “The Provenience of Obsidian Artifacts from Late Chalcolithic Levels at Aphrodisias, Turkey.'"' In Prehistoric Aphrodisias, ed. M. Joukowsky, (Archaeologia Transatlantica Vol. IV) Louvain-la-Neuve, Institut Superieur D'Archelogie et Histoire de L'Art, Brown University, 1985.
Blackman, M. J. “Chemical Characterization of Sealing Clays from Fourth Millenium B.C. Sites in Iran. In The Transactions of the American Nuclear Society, vol. 49, pp. 168-169, La Grange, IL, 1985.
Cheng, Y., and Olin, J. S. "The Neutron Activation Autoradiography Program
at the Smithsonian Institution. In the Transactions of the American
Nuclear Society, vol. 49, pp 169, La Grange, IL, 1985.
Fraunfelter, G. H., and Bishop, R. L. "Invertebrate Megafauna of the Palengue, Chiappas, Mexico Area."' Southern Illinois Studies 18, (1985).
Garbin, M. L. “Leather Bibliography."' in Fogle ed. Recent Advances in Leather Conservation. Foundation of the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works (FAIC), Washington, DC, 1985.
Goodway, M. "Disintegration of Zine Die-Castings." Journal of the Historical Metallurgy Society 19 no 1 (1985) pp. 37-38. ;
Hamburg, D., Van Der Reyden, D., and Vitale, T. Paper Conservation Catalog. Sec. 22: Humidification, Book and Paper Group. American Institute of Conservation, Washington, DC, May, 1984.
Hamburg, D., and Vitale, T. Paper Conservation Catalog. Sec: 28 Drying/Flattening, Book and Paper Group, American Institute of Conservation, Washington, DC, May, 1984.
Henderson, J. ‘An Iron Age Glass Bead." in Britnall and Savory ed. Excavations at Gwerndale Cambrian Archaeological Society Monograph,
“no 2 (1984).
Henderson, J., et al. "A Bronze Age Glass Bead from Wilsford, Wiltshire." Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society 52 (1984).
Jornet, A., Blackman, M.J., and Olin, J. S. "XIIIth to XVIIIth Century Ceramics from the Paterna-Manises Area (Spain)."' In Ceramics and Civilization, ed. David Kingery, American Ceramic Society, pp 235-255, 1985.
Myers, J. E., and Blackman, M. J. “Conical Plates from Medieval Qsar
es-Seghir."' In the Proceedings of the Third International Congress on Medieval Ceramics. 1985.

<<<Page: 217>>>

Padfield, T. “A Cooled Display Case." Museum 146 (1985) pp. 102-103. . Reents, D. J. and Bishop, R. L. “History and Ritual Events on a Petexbatun Classic Maya Polychrome Vessel."" In Fifth Palenque
Roundtable, 1983, edited by Merle Green Robertson and Virginia M. Fields. Pre-Columbian Art Institute, Hearld Printers, Monterey, pp 57:=63,:. 1985:
Stark, B. L., Heller, L., Nelson, F. W., Bishop, R. L., Pearsall, D. M.,
Whitley, D. S., and Eells, H. "Rl Balsamo Residential Investigations = a Pilot Project and Research Issues. American Anthropologist, 1985.
Von Endt, D. W., and Ortner, D. J. “Experimental Effects of Bone Size and Temperature on Bone Diagenesis." Journal of Archaeological Science, 11 (1984) pp. 247-253.
Wright, R. “Technology and Style in Ancient Ceramics." In. W. D. Kingery, Ceramics and Civilization. Pittsburgh, American Ceramic Society, pp. 5-25, 1985.
Wright, R. “The Frontiers of Prehistoric Baluchistan and the Development of the Indus Civilization."' In. K. M. Trinkaus, Ed. Polities and Partitions. Arizona State Press, 1985.
Papers Presented at Technical Meetings
Ballard, M. W. "Weighted Silks Observed with SEM-EDS."" Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American Institute for Conservation, Washington, DC, May 1985.
Beaudry, M. P. “Late Classic Painted Ceramics as Indicators of Social Class.'' Symposium on Copan Archaeology, at the Annual Meeting of the Society for American Archaeology, Denver, April 1985.
Blackman, M. J. “Chemical Characterization of Sealing Clays from Fourth Millenium BC Sites in Iran.'’ Symposium on Advances in Nuclear and Atomic Analytical Methods: Nuclear Archaeometry Applications, at the Annual Meeting of the American Nuclear Society, Boston, June 1985.
Blackman, M. J. and Wright, R. P. "Technological and Stylistic Changes in Ceramics from the Fourth Millenium BC in Highland Iran."' Seminar on Interactions among Technology, Style and Design in Ceramic History and Archaeology, at the Annual Meeting of the American Ceramic Society, Cincinnati, May 1985.
Cheng, Y. T. and Olin, J. S. “The Neutron Activation Autoradiography Program at the Smithsonian Institution." Symposium on Advances in Nuclear and Atomic Analytical Methods: Nuclear Archaeometry Applications, at the Annual Meeting of the American Nuclear Society, Boston, June 1985.
Goodway, M. “Iron."' Seminar on Metals for Conservators, at the Twelfth
Annual Meeting of the American Institute for Conservation, Washington, DC, May 1985.

<<<Page: 218>>>

Grissom, C. A. "Zinc." Seminar on Metals for Conservators, at the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the American Institute for Conservation, Washington, DC, May 1985.
Jornet, A., Blackman, M. J., and Olin, J. S. “Investigation on Post Medieval Glazed Ware from the Sevilla and Talavera Puenta Areas (Spain)."' Seminar on Interaction among Technology, Style and Design in Ceramic History and Archaeology, at the Annual Meeting of the American Ceramic Society, Cincinnati, May 1985.
Myers, E. "Spanish State Building and Colonial Expansion: The Old World Background of New World Maiolica."" Annual Meeting of the Society for Historic Archaeology, December 1984.
van Zelst, L. "Gold and Silver.'' Seminar on Metals for Conservators, at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American Institute for Conservation, Washington, DC, May 1985.
Wright, R. P. "Technological Innovations and Stylistic Change." Seminar on Interactions among Technology, Style and Design in Ceramic History and Archaeology, at the Annual Meeting of the American Ceramic Society, Cincinnati, May 1985.
Wright, R. P. "New Perspectives on Third Millenium Painted Gray Wares." Eight International Conference on South Asian Archaeology, Moesgard, Denmark, July 1985.
Buckler, James R., and Meehan, Kathryn “American Horticuiture.”
Garden Aesthetic 1730-1930, pp. 10-14. Historical Society of Talbot County, Easton, Maryland, 1984.

<<<Page: 219>>>

Office of Museum Programs
Abrams, Morris editor. A Reference Guide for Materials Concerning Native American Culture and History, Native American Museums Program/Office of Museum rograms,
American Indian Collections in European Museums and Archives, Native American Museums Program/Office of Museum Programs, 1985.
Degan, Paula editor. Proceedings for "Ways of Effectively Addressing Cultural Responsiblities” a National Workshop for Tribal Museum Directors and Administrators, Los Angeles, 1983. Native American Museums Program/Off ice of Museum Programs,
Dong, Margaret and Glaser, Jane R. editors. Museum Studies/International, Office of Museum Programs, 1984.
Mallet, Marcia editor. Studies by Museums for Program Planning and Exhibition Evaluation. Native American Museums Program/Office of Museum Programs, 1985.
Native American Museums Program Newsletter Issue 4, Summer 1985, Native American Museums Program/Office of Museum Programs.
Padwe, Alice ed. Older Adults and the Museum World: An Emerging Partnership. Office of Museum Programs.
Training Program/Office of Museum Programs. OMP Newsletter, Volume II, September, 1985.
Turgel, Marjorie ed. Let's Look at Washington The Office of Museum Programs' Guide to the Nation's Capital, Office of Museum Progams.
Cox, William E., "Guide to the Papers of Charles P. Alexander, circa 18701982." Guides to Collections in the Smithsonian Archives, no. 3. Archives and Special Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Archives, 1985.
Deiss, William A., "The Making of a Naturalist: Spencer F. Baird, the
Biology and Geology, Papers from the Fifth Easter Meeting of the Society for the History of Natural History, 28-31 March, 1983. London: Society for the History of Natural History, Special Publication 3 (1985) :141-148.
Deiss, William A, "William Greenleaf Eliot: The Formative Years (18111834) ," Introductory Essay in Earl K. Holt, III, William Greenleaf Eliot, Conservative Radical (St. Louis: First Unitarian Church of St. Louis, 1985).
Deiss, William A, "Audubon: Influences on an American Naturalist," In John J. Audubon, 1785-1851, exhibit catalogue, Chattahoochee Nature Center, 8

<<<Page: 220>>>

SIL Staff Publications
Bedini, Silvio A. Clockwork Cosmos. Bernardo Facini and the Farnese Planisferologio. Vatican City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, 1985.
Il Gioco del Domino. Milan: Jaca Book Editoriale, 1985. Translation into Italian of The Spotted Stones, 1978.
. "Thomas Jefferson and American Vertebrate Paleontology." Derek de Solla Price (1922-1983), Eloge. Florence, Italy, 1984. Virginia Division of Mineral Resources Publication No. 61. Charlottsville, Va.: Department of Mines, Minerals, and Energy, Division of Mineral Resources, 1985.
A Catalogue of European Scientific Instruments in the
Department of Medieval and Later Antiquities of the British Museum by F. A. B. Ward, in Technology and Culture 26 (3) (1985) :636-37.
A Discourse on the Character and Services of Thomas
Jefferson, More Especially as Promoter of Natural and Physical Sciences, in Technology and Culture 26 (3)(1985):637-38.
Il circolo matematico di Palermo by Aldo Brigaglia and Guido Masotto in Isis 75 (3)(1984):589-90.
The Georgia-South Carolina Boundary. A Problem in Historical Geography by Louis De Vorsey, Jr. in Annals of Science, 42
(2)(1985)':175-76.
Child, Margaret S. "The Future of Cooperative Preservation Microfilming."
Library Resources and Technical Services 29 (1)(1985):94-101.
"New Techniques in Preservation.
" Humanities VI (4)(1985):31-2.
Gwinn, Nancy E. "The Rise and Fall and Rise of Cooperative Projects."
Library Resources and Technical Services 29 (1)(1985):80-86.
Hyltoft, John & Joyce Dreyfuss. "Non-Adhesive Bindings -Utopia or 25". "AIC Preprints: (1985).
Kenyon, Kay. "Zoo/Aquarium Libraries: A Survey," Special Libraries 75(1984):329-34. Reprinted in Animal Keevers' Forum 12 (1985):150181-83.
ol Ww re) 3 Q,
Maloy, Robert. "College and research libraries and IFLA." College & Research Libraries News 46 (7) (1985) :353-54.
Martinez, Katherine. Timeless Sources: Rare Books in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1985.
Matthews, Nancy L. William Sheppard, Cromwell's Law Reformer. Cambridge Studies in English Legal History. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1984.
Rahim, Enayetur. Smitnsonian focus on India: a quide to the Institution's
resources. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
ww lanl in

<<<Page: 221>>>

Scott, Catherine D. & Lee Ash, eds. Aeronautics and Space Flight Collections. New York: Haworth Press, 1985. Also published as Svecial
Collections 3 (nos. 1 and 2) (1985).
Stanley, Janet L. African Art: A Bibliographic Guide. Smithsonian Institution Libraries Research Guide No. 4. New York: Africana Publishing
Co. 781985.
"African Art and the AAT". Art Documentation (Tucson) 4 (3) (1985):103-105.
« “National Museum of African Art Branch Library, Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Washington, DC," African Research and Documentation (London) 35 (1984) :38-39.
"African Art Periodicals," Art Documentation (Tucson) 3 (1984) :93-95.
Africa Adorned, by Angela Fisher. Library Journal (Oct.1l, 1984).
African Libraries: Western Tradition and Colonial Brainwashing, in Africana Journal (New York) 13 (1984): 1-4. 1984.
. African Masterpieces From the Musée de l'Homme, by
Susan Vogel and Francine N'Diaye. Library Journal (June 1, 1985).
-° Broken Roots: a Biographical Narrative on the Shona People
in Zimbabwe, by Paul Chidyausiku. African Book Publishing Record (Oxford)
TY Aa) a985)) 5
Kenya Magic, by John Schmid. African Book Publishing Record (Oxford) 10 (3)(1984).
Libraries in West Africa: A Bibliography, by Helen Davies. Africana Journal 13 (1-4) (1984).
(Review] Nigerian Periodicals Directory, by C. N. C. Asomugha. African Book Publishing Record (Oxford) 10 (3)(1984).
A Short History of African Art, by Werner Gillon. Library Journal (May 1, 1985).
Wells, Ellen. Horsemanshiv: A Bibliograpny of Printed Materials from the Sixteenth Century through 1984. (Garland Reference Library of the Humanities, vol. 474). New York: Garland Publishing Inc., 1985.
: "Horsemanship: its literature and bibliography." Encyclopedia of Library and Information Science, 38 (1985):192-204.
(a a
7 "Prints commemorating the Rome, 1656 plague epidemic." Annali
dell'Istituto e Museo di Storia della Scienza di Firenze, X (1985):15-21.
& Renata Rutledge. "Book Collecting and Care of Books." Revised edition. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1985.

<<<Page: 222>>>

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution.Traveling Exhibition Service
Books and Exhibition Catalogues
Chambers, Katherine, ed. Update, 1984-85. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.
Material Evidence: New Color Techniques in Handmade Furniture. Washington,
. D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1985. Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Cologne. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1985.
Weiss, Harvey A. Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1985.
Booklets and Brochures
Chambers, Katherine, ed. Siteline, nos. 19 and 20. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1985.
Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1985.
Gettings, Frank. Artists and Models: Portraits from the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.
Exhibition Service, 1984.
Goodman, Deborah Lerme. Eva Zeisel: Designer for Industry. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984. . Newcomb Pottery: An Enterprise for Southern Women, 1895-1940.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service,
1984.
Proposing an Exhibition to SITES. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1985. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1985.
Posters
Drawn from the Sea: Art in the Service of Ichthyoloay
Fola to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria
Mouton Rothschild: Paintings for the Labels
Newcomb Pottery: An Enterprise for Southern Women, 1895-1940
Power and Gold: Jewelry from Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines
Sculpture: Exploring Three Dimensions
Three Centuries of German Painting and Drawing from the Collections of the Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Cologne

<<<Page: 223>>>

Hunt, Marjorie. “Cultural Conservation." Festival of
American Folklife Program Book, ed. Thomas Vennum, Jr., pp. 38-39. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1985.
Kenoyer, Jonathan Mark. "South Asian Cooking." Festival of
American Folklife Program Book, ed. Thomas Vennum, Jr., pp. 82-86. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1985.
Kurin, Richard. “Morality, Personhood and the Exemplary Life: Popular Conceptions of Muslims in Paradise." Moral Conduct
. and Authority: The Place of Adab in South Asian Islam, ed. Barbara Metcalf, pp. 196-220. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1984.
and Pria Devi. "Aditi--A Celebration of Life." Aditi: The Living. Arts of. India,,ed. Patricha Gallagher, pp. 31-183. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
“Aditi: A Celebration of Life." Festival of
American Folklife Program Book, ed. Thomas Vennum, Jr., pp. 95-96. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1985.
"Doctor, Lawyer, Indian Chief." Anthropology 85/86, ed. Elvio Angelonia, pp. 12-17. Guilford: Dushkin Annual Editions. (Reprint, 1985)
“Islamization in Pakistan: A View from the Countryside.” Asian Survey 25, no. 9 (1985)3852-62.
"Mela: A Festival Fair of India." Festival of India, pp. 150-154. New York: Harry Abrams, -Inc., 1985.
“Mela! An Indian Fair." Festival of American
Folklife Program Book, ed. Thomas Vennum, Jr., pp. 66-71. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1985.
McCarl, Robert. The District of Columbia Fire Fighters’ Project: A Case Study in Occupational Folklife. Smithsonian Folklife Studies Number 4. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
Vennum, Thomas, Jr. Traditional Ojibwa Religion, by Christopher Vecsey. American Indian Quarterly (Spring 1984) :369-73.
"The Ojibwe Begging Dance." Music and Context: Essays in Honor of John Ward, ed. Anne D. Shapiro, pp. 54-78. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Music Department, 1985.
, ed. Festival of American Folklife Program Book. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1985.
: Die Volksmusikinstrumente der Schweiz, by Brigitte Geiser-Bachmann. Ethnomusicology (Fall 1985) 3517-20.
wv H oo

<<<Page: 224>>>

Office of Telecommunications
Film and Video Productions. The listing which follows contains material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel:
"The Blue Planet." A 15-minute film. Compares and contrasts the Maine coast with a tropical coral reef. (NMNH)
"Coral Reefs and the Discovery of New Resources on a Blue
Planet." (working title) A 28-minute film. A documentary on the complex ecosystems and food sources of a tropical reef.
"Here at the Smithsonian..." 15 2-2 1/2-minute features.
The following is a complete listing of "Here at the
Smithsonian..." features, distributed to stations during 1985,
which contain material based on research done by Smithsonian
curators or other personnel: ;
"Say It Ain't So, Wesley." Two curator-sleuths at the National Air and Space Museum have proved that the world's most famous aerial photographs--the fabled Cockburn-Lange collection from World War I--are fakes. (NASM)
"Black Artists in the 19th Century." To celebrate Black History Month, a look at five black artists who overcame the odds, achieving success in 19th century America. (NMAA)
"Mechanical Musical Marvels." They brought music to cafes, dance halls, and into the home long before the phonograph -and now they play again. (NMAH)
"America's Castle." Tourists have often wondered why the "heart" of the Smithsonian is a medieval castle. A look behind the scenes at the history of this unique American building. (SI)
"Deep Sea Mysteries." A unique submersible now makes it possible for scientists to dive to observe the extraordinary creatures living deep in the waters of the Caribbean. (NMNH)
"The Smithsonian's Model Shop." Behind the scenes, skilled craftspeople create the models -from airplanes to dinosaurswhich enhance Smithsonian exhibitions.
"Keeping Orchids Alive." The National Orchid Collection boasts over 45,000 plants, many of them endangered and rescued from the world's vanishing rain forests. (OH/NMNH)
"Something To Hang The Paint On." Artist Jim Dine has become famous for his paintings of everyday things like robes, hearts, and tools. He comes to the Smithsonian for a major exhibition of his work. (HMSG)
"The World's Biggest Camera." Located on a mountain in southern Arizona, this camera takes snapshots of gamma rays in the distant universe. (SAO)

<<<Page: 225>>>

"The Tale of The Kite." A brief history of mankind's first aircraft, as told by a Smithsonian historian who's been putting kites to some amazing uses for nearly eighty years. (NASM)
"A Modern Noah's Ark." A visit to the Smithsonian's Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia, a "country home" for some of the rare and endangered animals being cared for by the National Zoo. (NZP)
"Restoring It Wright." The world's first airplane, the original 1903 Wright Brothers' Flyer, has just undergone a complete restoration for the first time since coming to the Smithsonian--and museum visitors were able to watch the whole process. (NASM) :
"Diplomats In Buckskins." In the 19th century, thousands of Indians came to the Nation's Capitol and were treated with all the ceremony of foreign diplomats. It's a little known but important chapter in the government's dealings with the Indians. (NMNH)
"Folklife '85." The sights and sounds of the Festival of American Folklife, from marimba music of the Mayan Indians to New Orleans Dixieland. (OFP)
"Advertising Yesterday and Today." The three million artifacts in the Smithsonian's Collection of Advertising History do more than "plug" products; they help document the "America" of their time. (NMAH)
"Video Astronomy." A revolutionary new tool, developed at the Harvard/Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, is providing highly detailed and colorful images of the universe, including Halley's Comet. (SAO)
"A Woman Ahead Of Her Time." The story of Martha Jackson, a Manhattan gallery owner who gave many of the superstars of contemporary American art their first big chance. (NMAA)
"The Old Country Post Office." For decades, in much of rural America, the post office was the most important link to the outside world. Recalling that time, we visit the one-room Headsville, West Virginia, post office and general store, now located in the Museum of American History. (NMAH)
"Smithsonian Galaxy," 104 2 1/2-minute features.
"Radio Smithsonian," 52 half-hour programs.
The partial listing of Radio Smithsonian segments, which follows,
contains material based on research done by Smithsonian curators
Or other personnel:
"Apollo's Legacy." Moon rocks brought back to Earth by astronauts. (NASM) September 2, 1984.
"The Curse that Wasn't." The Hope Diamond's legend and its true story. (NMNH) September 9, 1984.
"Looking Forward in Retrospect." An exhibition called "Yesterday's Tomorrows" explores popular expectations about the future. (NMAH) September 16, 1984.

<<<Page: 226>>>

"One Million Mosquitos." More than one million are in the Smithsonian's mosquito collection. (NMNH) September 23, 1984.
"Thinking about Animals." People's attitudes toward animals. (NZP, SI) September 23, 1984.
"The World's Biggest Tenderfoot." Little-known elephant facts and lore combined with preservation attempts for an endangered species. (NZP) September 30, 1984.
"Political Spots." Brief history of campaign "spots" from the 30's through the 50's. (NMAH) November 4, 1984.
"The Final Frontier." Speculation on living and working in outer space. (NASM) December 16, 1984.
"Here Comes Halley's." Smithsonian astronomers preview 1985's big celestial event, the arrival of Halley's Comet. (NASM, SAO) December 16, 1984.
"Hairstreaks and Skippers." Two entomologists report on the bizarre lifestyles of butterflies. (NMNH) December 30, 1984.
"Seaweed Mystery." Seaweed grows 850 feet beneath the sea without sunlight. Scientists are trying to find out how. (NMNH) January 6, 1985.
"Quetzalcoatlus Flies Again...Maybe." Quetzalcoatlus Northropi, better known as the Pterosaur, was the largest creature ever to fly. Experts try to build a working model. (NASM) January 13, 1985.
"Say It Ain't So, Wesley." Wesley Archer published some of World War I's most famous aerial combat photos. Two curators say they're fakes and explain how and why Wesley did it. (NASM) January 13, 1985.
"New at the Zoo." New director Dr. Michael Robinson looks at the changing roles of modern zoos. (NZP) January 20, 1985.
"Insects in Peru, Part 2." Follow-up on the continuing canopy studies of biologist Terry Irwin, who at last count had upped the number of insect species in the rain forests to 30 Million. (NMNH) January 20, 1985.
"The Spider's Web." Jonathan Coddington provides more information on evolution derived from the lives and habits of arachnids. (NMNH) February 10, 1985.
"Understanding Echinoderms." Found in marine habitats all over the world, it is no easy task to understand these sea urchins, starfish and their kin. (NMNH) February 10,1985.
"Happy Birthday, DC-3." The first commercially viable plane turns 50 this year but the credit should really go to its older brother, the DC-2. (NASM) February 17, 1985.
"People in transition." Anthropologist Allison Brooks observes a major cultural change in !Kung San people of Africa's Kalahari Desert as they evolve from a hunter-gather society into an agricultural one. (NMNH) February 24, 1985.
id te Lan

<<<Page: 227>>>

"Animals and Tools." New research reveals that animal tool use is far more widespread than suspected. (NZP) March 17, 1985.
"Venezuela's Lost World." Cerro Neblina, a mountain rising out of a remote rain forest offers unique research opportunities. (NMNH) March 24, 1985.
"Thomas Paine: A Hero Scorned." A chronicle of the career of an American patriot and revolutionary. -(NPG) March 31, 1985. "Stamp Stories." Postal peculiarities recounted by the curator
of the National Philatelic Collection. (NMA) March 31, 1985.
"A Museum Milestone." Celebrating the 75th anniversary of the National Museum of Natural History. (NMNH) April 7, 1985.
"Frontier Warfare." Historians, curators, and archivists trace the history of combat between Native Americans and settlers from 17th-century confrontations in Virginia to Custer's Last Stand. (NMNH/NMAH) April 28, 1985.
"Mammals in the Spotlight." A new permanent hall reveals the origin and evolution of mammals, from 60 million years ago to the present day. (NMNH) July 7, 1985.
"The Coast of Maine." A new living biosystem recreates the complex chains of life in the salt marches, mud flats and rocky shores of Maine's coast. (NMNH) July 7, 1985.
"Before America." From the language of the Maya to the music of the Chippewa, a review of our current Knowledge and speculation about America before the white man came. (SI, NASM, MNAH) July 14, 1985.
"The First Secretary." Exploring the research and writings of Joseph Henry, the Smithsonian's first presiding officer. (JHP) July 12, 1985.
"U.S. Grant--the Unknown Soldier." Portraits, photographs and personal memorabilia trace Grant's rise to fame as a Civil War general and President of the United States. (NPG)
July 28, 1985.
"American Gypsies." A portrait of the Rom, an American Gypsy group that has carved a niche in this country despite their illiteracy, lack of education, and harsh treatment from the rest of society. (NMAH) September 1, 1985.
"IRAS the Magnificent." IRAS is the Infra-Red Astronomy Satellite which recently concluded its triumphant tour of space. (NASM) September 15, 1985.
"Deep Sea Creatures." In the deep dark cold of the oceans, many a strange and fanciful being resides. (NMNH) September 29, 1985.

<<<Page: 228>>>

Williams, Martin, "Honoring Bill Evans" (annotation to The Complete
Riverside Bell Evans record album).
‘"Just Asking." Jazz Times (September 1984).
™"Fictionalizing Tarzan." Tarzine (June 1985).
"Celebrating the Word Saxophone Quartet." Jazz Times (August 1985).
. "Drug Abuse and the Comic Strip" (letter). The Comics Journal (June 1985).
"Jazz: What Happened in Kansas City." American Music (Summer 1985).
Jazz Heritage (Oxford). (September 1985).
Caraveli, Anna. Scattered in Foreign Lands: A Greek Village in Baltimore. Exhibition Catalogue. Baltimore, Md.: The Baltimore Museum of Art, 1985.
----"The Symbolic Village: Community Born in Performance.” Journal of American Folklore, vol. 98, July-Sept., 1980.
Frye, Melinda Young. “Charles Wilcomb's Colonial Kitchens, 1895, 1906; 1910." In The Colonial Revival in America. New York: Norton/Winterthur, 1985.
The Smithsonian Associate, monthly 32to 52-page newsletter, Janet W. Solinger, publisher/executive editor, and Karen R. Sagstetter, editor.

<<<Page: 229>>>

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.
RIF Newsletter. Published three times a year, the Newsletter reports
on RIF activities nationwide. A technical assistance insert, addressing local projects' requests for information on how to motivate youngsters to read, is included in Newsletters sent to RIF projects. The Newsletter reaches 20,000 people throughout the United States and offshore territories.
Parents' Brochures. A series of four brochures on the topics "Choosing Good Books for Your Children," "TV and Reading," "Reading Aloud to
Your Children," and "Upbeat and Offbeat Activities to Encourage Reading." i
Books to Grow On: A Parent's Guide to Encouraging Young Readers. A resource for parents of children from infancy to age eleven.
The RIF Book of Ideas. A series of booklets on fundraising, selecting books for young people, and motivating children to read.
I Want You. A brochure to assist RIF projects in recruiting and training volunteers.
Reading Is Fun. Tips for Parents. A booklet offering suggestions on how to encourage children up to the age of eight to read.
Children's Bookshelf. An annotated list of 106 books for chidren up to the age of eleven.
Profiles. Descriptions of the publishers and distributors that serve RIF projects. The Profiles list special discounts and services offered by each supplier and are distributed annually to all projects.

<<<Page: 230>>>

Aronson, Julie, contributor. American Naive Paintings.from the National Gallery of Art. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1985.
Ash, Nancy. "Media Problems." Paper Conservation Catalog (1985).
Brown, David. "Leonardo and the Idealized Portrait in Milan." Arte Lombarda, 67 (1983-84):102-116. "A Leonardesque Madonna in Cleveland." Scritti di storia dell-arte in onore di Federico Zeri, 2 vols. Milan, 1984. M2912 301, . "Parmigianino at Fontanellato." FMR, no. 1 (1984):140-147. Carriveau, Gary W., et al. "Some Comparisons Among Majolica Samples from Faenza and Pesaro." Faenza, LXX, 1985. . “A Characterization of the Pesaro Samples in the Trace
Elements." Bulletin American Ceramics Society, no. 5 (1985). . "Caratterizzazioni chemico-fisiche di campioni di majolica
d'area romagnolo medioevale e post medioevale." Faenza, 1985. Chotner, Deborah, contributor. American Naive Paintings from the National Gallery of Art. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1985. Cikovsky, Nicolai, Jr. Essay and entries. George Inness Los Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1985. . "The Civilized Landscape." American Heritage (April/May 1985) :32-41. "George Inness." FMR (1985). "Notes on the Museum Set." Ansel Adams: Classic Images  Contemporary Designers ed. by Ann Lee Morgan. Reference Quarterly, 23, no.4 (Summer 1985):495, 505.
. Helen Frankenthaler: Works on Paper by Karen Wilkin. Choice (July/August 1985):13.
. A Woman's Touch: Women in Design from 1860 to the Present Day by Isabelle Anscombe. Choice (March 1985):21.
» contributor. Gemini G.E.L.: Art and Collaboration.  Devour the Fire: Selected Poems of Harry Crosby -17Finerrrint, I1, no. 2(April 1985)s112.
Ezra Pound: A Bibliography by Donald Gallup.
Credences: A Journal of Twentieth Century Poetry and Poetics, N.S., 3, no. Il(Spring 1984):202-203.
Feigenbaum, Gail, contributor. Around 1610: The Onset of the Baroque. London, Matthiesen Gallery, 1985.
. "Old Master Exhibitions in New York." Burlington Magazine,
CXXVII, no. 985 (1985):255-56.
Fine, Ruth, contributor. Gemini G.E.L.: Art and Collaboration.  Houston: The Blaffer Collection. . “On Art History." New Criterion, 4, no. 1 (September 1985):18-21.
Graselli, Margaret. "Prodiges des crayons." Beaux Arts (Collection Les Grandes Expositions), special issue devoted to Watteau (October 1984) :50-55.,
Grier, Margot E., contributor. Gemini G.E.L.: Art and Collaboration. {Exhibition catalogue] Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art; New York: Abbeville Press, 1984.
"Belvedere Examined." Art Documentation, 3, no.4 (Winter
1984) :128-130.
Hirschauer, Gretchen. Leonardo da Vinci. Drawings of Horses from the
Royal Library at Windsor Castle. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1985.
. “Leonardo da Vinci's Studies of the Horse." The Chronicle
of the Horse, 48, no. 11 (15 March 1985) :38-39.
Kelly, Franklin. Reflections of Nature by Ella Foshay. Winterthur Portfolio (Autumn 1985).
Lewis, Douglas. "Madonna and Child, 1420s." In Jean C. Harris, ed., The Mount Holyoke College Art Museum, Handbook of the Collection. South Hadley, Massachusetts, 1984, 22-23,
. "Il significato della decorazione plastica e pittorica a Maser.'"' Bollettino del Centro Internazionale di Studi di Architettura, 22 ("1980"=1985), pt. 1, Atti del convegno internazionale su "Palladio e il palladianesimo: 203-213.
"David with the Head of Goliath, Cast no. 1."3 "David with the Head of Goliath, Cast no. 2"; and "David of the Casa Martelli." In Italian Renaissance Sculpture in the Time of Donatello.  Detroit: Detroit Institute of Arts, 1985.
Luchs, Alison. ''Madonna and Child under an Arch"; "Cosimo de'Medici, Pater Patriae"'; "Bernardo Rossellino"; "A Lady of the Vespucci Family(?)"; "Francesco di Giorgio"; "The Deposition"; "Saint John the Baptist"; and "David." In Italian Renaissance Sculpture in the Time of Donatello. Detroit: Detroit Institute of Arts, 1985. :
Lydecker, John Kent. "The Patron, Date and Original Location of Andrea del Sarto's Tobias Altar-piece." The Burlington Magazine, 127 (1985) :349-355.
Olivetti, Trudi, contributor. Scholars' Guide to Washington, DJG. fox Audio Resources: Sound Recordings in the Arts, Humanities, and Social, Physical and Life Sciences. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
Owens, Carlotta J. John James Audubon: The Birds of America.  Art in America, 73 (February 1985):5 . "Rebecca Howland's Brainwash." In ABC No Rio Dinero: The
Story of a Lower East Side Art Gallery. New York, 1985:159-6l. . Renoir: His Life, Art, and Letters by B. E. White. Art in America, 72 (December 1984) :23-24. . Degas: His Life, Times and Work by R. McMullen, and James Tissot by M. Wentworth. Art in America, 73 (June 1985) :17-19. . 19th-Century Art by R. Rosenblum and H. W. Janson. Art in America, 73 (February 1985):17-19. . "Recent Degas Publications." Burlington Magazine, 127, no. 988 (July 1985):465-67. Tuttle, Virginia. "Lilith in Bosch's Garden of Earthly Delights." Simiolus, 16, no.2 (1985). Williams, William James. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1985, 71-103...
Wolff, Martha. German and Netherlandish Masters of the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries. The Illustrated Bartsch, X. New York, 1985.

<<<Page: 231>>>

Appendix 7
The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1985
Office: of the. Secretary
The Secretary
Executive Assistant
Special Assistant
Administrative Assistant (Appointments)
Supervisor, Secretary's Files
Office of the Under Secretary
The Under Secretary Administrative Assistant
Robert McCormick Adams
James M. Hobbins Joseph Coudon
Mary Lee Nissley Betty J. Edwards
Dean W. Anderson Teresa Pietroski
Office of Audits and Investigations
Director Deputy Director
Assistant Directors Audits
Investigator
General Counsel... i.e ccdwedes Associate General Counsels...
Assistant General Counsels...
Chris S. Peratino Patrick J. Stanton Jerry L. Chandler John C. Fawsett William M. Phillips
Peter G. Powers Marie C. Malaro Alan D. Ullberg Ildiko P. DeAngelis Robert A. Dierker George S. Robinson Sharon White Senghor Marsha S. Shaines James I. Wilson
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science
Assistant Secretary Executive Officer
Program Manager
Research Program Specialist
David Challinor
Harold J. Michaelson Ross B. Pita R.
Simons Jordan

<<<Page: 232>>>

Director
@e@eereeceeeeceeeceeeeeeesee ee eee e eee ee @
Deputy DITSCEOTS Giclee iepcesacm cscs ces cecccie sc
Chief,
Information Management .......0.%
RESACIER AT Uatereseleterateteveretetele cr s'c.0c ¢: s6ishels.¢;%« Museum Facilities Manager .....cceceees
Associate Director for Research
Chief,
and Publications
Aerospace Education
EB Caste Oeteloneseres elo ereienehelehelele cveteserevere «, cle, overs DOCETIIED COORGPNAT OT. wictotelela ci cccte ie <lcle'ae'e e Program Manager, University Programs .. Associate Director for External Affairs .. Assistant Director for Resource
Management
THCAECESMaANa GET! ais sicisiete o e's eis ce e's s-0 s/s 6
Chief,
Services
Public Affairs and Museum
e@ecereevreereoeeeoeceereeeoeeeeooce ee eee
Special Events Coordinator .......... Adminis tratd vesOPE TCE. eietai. cele 00 60 e000
Director,
Historian Emeritus
Chairman,
Advanced: iPrOjECES mettic cic cies aie.e 0's
Department of Aeronautics ......
Special Adviser for Technology ........
Senior Curator Curators
Associate Curators
Assistant Curators
Chairman,
Planetary Studies ..
eececeereeeeeeceeeeoee ec eee eee
e@oeeeeeoceeeeee eee ee &
e@eceoeeeseeseeeeeeo ee ev ee
Center for Earth and
eecececrereoeeeeeoeoe eee oe
Geol PASS im eaters che celeusiel ckelete ie: or etwle ousie s/s) 01 oie
Research Associate
Chairman,
Space Science and Exploration
DEPaIEMETE Malevalevctsverers cstevsioveierscloneieve! eles, ever
Associate Curators
eoeceoereeoeeceeeee ee eee 0
ASSiSiEAnNE Gura tor se en npeteragece oigle overs tehe:e 0 0
HiiS COGS mM bewsjene o's nyere:e eheede fs Talal diene ee alte corevelens
Chief,
Planetarium Unit. aierdcts 000
Walter J. Boyne Donald S. Lopez Karl P. Suthard Robin A. Schroffel Claude D. Russell Paul A. Hanle
Helen C. McMahon Patricia J. Graboske Patricia E. Johnston Nancy H. Starr
Brian M. Duff
M. Antoinette Amos Ronald E. Wagaman
Rita C. Cipalla Marilyn E. Lyons Wendy A. Stephens Hernan I. Otano
Paul E. Garber Edmund T. Wooldridge Howard S. Wolko Robert C. Mikesh Tom D.Crouch
R. E. G. Davies
Von D. Hardesty
C. Glen Sweeting Claudia M. Oakes Dominick A. Pisano Jay P. Spenser Robert van der Linden
Ted A. Maxwell
Patricia A. Jacobberger Priscilla L. Strain Thomas R. Watters Constance G. Andre
David H. DeVorkin Paul E. Ceruzzi Linda N. Ezell
Allan A. Needell Derek W. Elliott Joseph N. Tatarewicz Frank H. Winter Cathleen S. Lewis James H. Sharp

<<<Page: 233>>>

Assistant Director for Exhibits
O20 0-00 OREO Nadya A. Makovenyi
Ghieke Deston SUN Ret wee series cca ss sie eacee Lucius E. Lomax Chief,Production Unt. ..csiccscac oe ses Harold J. Pippin Chief, Auddloviistial TUNEES. ccc cede se os S0% John E,. Hartman Chief; JATCLUMGE oN Sle cece ane reds ee Mary H. Valdivia Chief, Media Resources ws csc cosine Soc 8s Patricia A. Woodside Assistant Director for Operations ...cece. Edward B. Chalkley
Chief, Preservation and Restoration
OPSTAELOMIS oie ssuete eras: eens! o-eua) ats! otehatchcvevete: s Walter R. Roderick
Collections Manager i. 6c es ce stews cidete Alfred J. Bachmeier
Director
Associate Director
Acting Director
Acting Associate Director
Assistant Director for Special Projects
Assistant Director for Programs
Special Assistant to the Associate Director
Writer-Editor
Administrative Officer
Administrative Assistant
Administrative Specialist
Management Analyst
Program Manager
Special Assistant to the Director
Assistant Director for Education
Assistant Director for the Automatic Data Processing Program
Assistant Director for Exhibits
Registrar
Building Manager
Supervisory Museum Specialist, Scanning Electron Microscope Laboratory
Richard S. Fiske
(Resigned July 7, 1985)
James C. Tyler (Appointed March 3, James C. Tyler
1985)
(Appointed July 7, 1985)
Stanwyn G. Shetler (Appointed August 4,
Catherine J. Kerby Stanwyn G. Shetler Jerome A. Conlon Thomas R. Harney Mary Rakow Tanner Noreen Dinndorf Elizabeth E. Greene John C. Townsend, Jr. Marsha Cox
Ruth Selig
Joan C. Madden
T. Gary Gautier Laurence P. O'Reilly
Margaret A. Santiago Edward McCoy
Walter R. Brown
1985)

<<<Page: 234>>>

Anthropology
Chairman
Administrative Assistant Collections Manager Conservation Laboratory,
Supervisor Public Information Specialist
Adrienne L. Kaeppler
(Appointed March 17, 1985) Clara Ann Simmons
(Retired July 3, 1985) Candace Greene
(Appointed June 9, 1985)
Carolyn L. Rose Ann Kaupp
General Editor
Managing Editor
Production Manager
Management Services Assistant Anthropologist
Linguist
Librarian
Director Assistant Director
William C. Sturtevant R. H. Ives Goddard III Diane Della-Loggia Melvina Jackson Johanna C. Scherer
R. H. Ives Goddard III Lorraine H. Jacoby
Herman J. Viola Barbara Johnson
Director Deputy Director Assistant Director
Curator Associate Curator Expert
Herman J. Viola James R. Glenn Paula Fleming
Robert M. Laughlin William H. Crocker Betty J. Meggers
ie) od H

<<<Page: 235>>>

Curators
Associate Curator
Curators
Associate Curators
PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY Curators
Associate Curator
Curator
James M. Adovasio (Archeology)
John Albanese (Geology)
Andrew Apter (Ethnology)
Larry Banks (Archeology)
Virginia L. Bavendam (Ethnology)
Gillian Bentley (Physical Anthropology)
Ava Berenstein (Linguistics)
William W. Fitzhugh Bruce D. Smith
Dennis J. Stanford William Cc. Sturtevant William L. Merrill
Adrienne Kaeppler Ivan Karp
William B. Trousdale Gus Van Beek
Mary Jo Arnoldi
(Appointed November 1, 1984)
Paul Taylor
J. Lawrence Angel Donald J. Ortner Douglas H. Ubelaker Richard Potts
(Appointed November 5,
R. H. Ives Goddard III
Kathleen J. Bragdon (Linguistics) Alison S. Brooks (Archeology) Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Archeology) Margaret Caldwell (Physical Anthropology) Henry B. Collins (Archeology) Frederic A. Cordova (Ethnology) Aron Crowell (Archeology)
1984)

<<<Page: 236>>>

Edith Dietze (Ethnology) John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology) Don D. Fowler (Archeology) George Frison (Archeology) Bruno Frohlich (Physical Anthropology) Gordon D. Gibson (Ethnology) Kathleen Gordon (Physical Anthropology) James Griffin
(Archeology) Chris Hardin (Ethnology) Gary Haynes (Archeology) Brian Hesse (Archeology) John Homiak (Ethnology) Neil C. Hughes (Archeology) H. Edwin Jackson (Archeology) Bennie C. Keel (Archeology)
Jennifer O. Kelley (Physical Anthropology)
Eugene Knez (Ethnology)
Richard T. Koritzer (Physical Anthropology)
JoAnne Lanouette (Education)
Paulina Ledergerber ° (Archeology)
Mary McCutcheon (Anthropology)
Botany
Chairman
Administrative Assistant Collections Manager Senior Botanists
David Meltzer (Archeology)
Jerald T. Milanich (Archeology)
Jill Neitzel (Ethnology)
Stephen Potter (Archeology)
Mary L. Powell (Physical Anthropology)
Walter G. J. Putschar (Physical Anthropology)
Bruce D. Ragsdale (Pathology)
Saul H. Riesenberg (Ethnology)
Jean-Loup Rousselot (Archeology)
Lucile E. St. Hoyme (Physical Anthropology)
Robert G. Schmidt (Geology)
Shirley J. Schwarz (Archeology)
Andrew Sillen (Physical Anthropology)
T. Dale Stewart (Physical Anthropology)
Russell Thornton (Physical Anthropology)
Jean Umiker-Sebeok (Linguistics)
Mildred M. Wedel (Archeology and Ethnohistory)
Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)
Wirt Wills (Archeology)
Pamela J. Wintle (Film Archives)
Melinda Zeder (Zooarcheology)
Mark M. Littler Nella F. Lloyd George F. Russell Edward S. Ayensu
(Resigned June 30, 1985) Richard S. Cowan
(Resigned October 31, 1985) Mason E. Hale, Jr.

<<<Page: 237>>>

Curators
Associate Curators
Associate Curator
Curator
Curators
Curator
Curator
Dan H. Nicolson Robert W. Read Stanwyn G. Shetler Dieter C. Wasshausen John J. Wurdack Robert B. Faden Vicki A. Funk Marie-Héléne Sachet Laurence E. Skog
David B. Lellinger
Thomas R. Soderstrom
Mark M. Littler James N. Norris Harold E. Robinson
Joan W. Nowicke
Richard H. Eyde

<<<Page: 238>>>

Pamela Balough (Orchids)
Katina Bucher (Algae)
Jose Cuatrecasas (Flora? ‘o£: Tropical South America)
James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)
F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Island Plants)
Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)
Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)
LeRoy H. Harvey (Grasses)
Mark Edward Hay (Marine Algae)
Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. (Rubiaceae)
EUbent Lar Little, Jr. (Dendrology)
Diane §S. Littler (Marine Algae)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams )
Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae)
Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams )
Amy Y. Rossman (Fungi)
Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae)
Edith BE. B. Scott (Bryophyta)
Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
Christopher E. Tanner (Marine Botanical Systematics) Phillip R. Taylor (Marine Botanical Ecology) Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams ) Egbert H. Walker (East Asian Flora)

<<<Page: 239>>>

Entomology
Chairman
Collections Manager
Senior Scientist
Curators
Curators
Associate Curator
Curators
Curator
Senior Scientist Associate Curator
Associate Curator
Wayne N. Mathis Gary F. Hevel Karl V. Krombein
Oliver S. Flint, Jr. Wayne N. Mathis
John M. Burns Don R. Davis Robert K. Robbins
Terry L. Erwin Paul J. Spangler
Richard C. Froeschner
Karl V. Krombein Ronald J. McGinley
Jonathan A. Coddington

<<<Page: 240>>>

Joachim Adis (Coleoptera) Annette Aiello
(Lepidoptera) Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera)
Edward W. Baker (Mites) S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera) | S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera) Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera) Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera) J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera) Margaret Collins (Orthoptera) Jerry Coyne (Diptera)
Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka)
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)
John H. Fales (Lepidoptera)
Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera)
Richard H. Foote (Diptera)
John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)
Raymond J. Gagne (Diptera)
Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera)
E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera)
William L. Grogan, Jr. (Diptera)
Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera)
Ralph E. Harbach (Diptera)
Bruce A. Harrison (Diptera)
Thomas Henry (Hemiptera)
John B. Heppner °* (Lepidoptera)
Jon L. Herring (Hemiptera)
Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera)
Harry Hoogstraal (Medical Entomology)
W. L. Jellison (Mites, Ticks)
James E. Keirans (Ticks)
John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera)
Lloyd Knutson (Diptera)
James P. Kramer (Homoptera)
Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera)
Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera)
Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera)
Scott E. Miller (Microlepidoptera)
Carl F. W. Muesebeck (Hymenoptera)
David F. Nickle (Orthoptera)
Paul A. Opler (Lepidoptera)
David L. Pearson (Coleoptera)
Robert V. Peterson (Diptera)
Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera)
Robert W. Poole (Noctuidae)
George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera)
Mary Livingston Ripley (General Entomology)
Louise M. Russell (Homoptera)

<<<Page: 241>>>

Las) co
Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera)
Jay C. Shaffer (Microlepidoptera)
Sunthorn Sirivanakarn (Mosquitoes) |
Robert L. Smiley (Mites)
David R. Smith (Hymenoptera)
Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera)
George C. Steyskal (Diptera)
Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera)
F. Christian Thompson (Diptera)
Invertebrate Zoology
Chairman Collections Manager
Administrative Assistant
Curators
Associate Curator
Curators
Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera) Robert Traub (Siphonaptera) Katsuji Tsuneki (Hymenoptera) Hayo H. W. Velthuis (Hymenoptera) Ronald A. Ward (Medical Entomology) Richard E. White (Coleoptera) Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera) Willis W. Wirth (Diptera) David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)
Clyde F. E. Roper Roland H. Brown Martha J. Vincellette
J. Laurens Barnard Thomas E. Bowman Roger F. Cressey Charles W. Hart, Jr. Robert P. Higgins Louis S. Kornicker Raymond B. Manning Brian F. Kensley
Frederick M. Bayer
Stephen D. Cairns (Appointed February 1985)
David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler

<<<Page: 242>>>

Curators
Curators
Richard S. Houbrick
Clyde F. E. Roper
Joseph Rosewater (Deceased March 1985)
Kristian Fauchald W. Duane Hope Meredith L. Jones Mary E. Rice
Director
Microbiologist
Biological Laboratory Technician
Histotechnologic Specialist
Biological Research Assistant
Museum Specialist
Biological Research Assistant
Research Assistant
John Harshbarger Sing Chen Chang
Jennifer B. Clark
(Appointed December 1984) Linda Cullen
(Resigned July 1985) Linda Deck
(Appointed March 1985) Phyllis Spero Christine Louton
(Resigned February 1985) Marilyn Slatick
J. Bruce Bredin
Fenner A. Chace, Jr. (Emeritus Zoologist)
Steven Chambers
Joan D. Ferraris
Stephen L. Gardiner
Terrence M. Gosliner
M. G. Harasewych
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. (Emeritus Zoologist)
Lipke B. Holthuis
Roman Kenk
J. Ralph Lichtenfels
Patsy McLaughlin
Charles G. Messing
John E. Miller Katherine Muzik
Isabel Perez-Farfante (Canet)
Richard E. Petit
Marian Pettibone (Emeritus Zoologist)
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder (Emeritus Zoologist)
I. G. Sohn
Ronald B. Toll
Geerart J. Vermeij
Gilbert L. Voss
Austin B. Williams
David K. Young

<<<Page: 243>>>

Mineral Sciences
Chairman Administrator
Curator Associate Curator Geochemist
Curator Associate Curator Crystallographer
Curators
Associate Curator
Chemists
Electronics Technician
Museum Specialist Museum Technicians
Robert F. Fudali Roberta Lynn Ellington
(Appointed October 14, 1984)
Roy S. Clarke, Jr. Glenn J. MacPherson Kurt Fredriksson
John Sampson White Jeffrey Post Daniel E. Appleman
Richard S. Fiske William G. Melson Tom Simkin
Sorena Sorensen
Eugene Jarosewich Joseph A. Nelen James E. Collins
Lindsay R. McClelland Elizabeth Nielsen Emily Wegert

<<<Page: 244>>>

Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites) William C. Buell IV (Volcanology) Cathy Busby-Spera (Petrology) Gary R. Byerly (Petrology) Felix Chayes (Petrology and Volcanology) Suzanne P. DeAtley (Petrology and Volcanology) Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites) John Filson (Petrology and Volcanology) Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy)
Paleobiology
Chairman Curators Emeritus
Administrative Assistant
Collections Manager
Deputy Collections Manager
Paleobiological Information Specialist
Scientific Illustrator
Vertebrate Paleontology Preparation Laboratory, Supervisor
Senior Scientists
Martin Flower (Petrology and Volcanology) Edward Henderson (Meteorites) Peter Levens (Mineralogy) Brian H. Mason (Meteorites) Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy) Debra S. Stakes (Petrology and Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology and Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology and
Volcanology)
Volcanology)
Volcanology)
Ian G. Macintyre
G. Arthur Cooper
C. Lewis Gazin Betty M. Lomax Frederick J. Collier Jann W. M. Thompson
Raymond T. Rye II Mary A. Parrish
Arnold D. Lewis Richard H. Benson
(Appointed June 9, 1985) Richard E. Grant Porter M. Kier
(Retired June 3, 1985)

<<<Page: 245>>>

Geologists
Curators
Associate Curators
Jean M. Berdan William A. Berggren Raymond L. Bernor Gioacchino M. Bonaduce Arthur J. Boucot Sankar Chatterjee Anthony G. Coates Josephine W. Cooper Steven J. Culver Daryl P. Domning Raymond C. Douglass J. Thomas Dutro, Jr. Ralph E. Eshelman Jerzy A. Federowski Robert M. Finks Frank A. Garcia Mackenzie Gordon, Jr. Richard R. Graus Peter C. Griffith Peter J. Harmatuk Jessica A. Harrison Leo J. Hickey
S. Taseer Hussain Jeremy B. C. Jackson Gilbert Kelling
Carl F. Koch
N. Gary Lane
Ian G. Macintyre James F. Mello Kenneth M. Towe Walter H. Adey Richard S. Boardman (Retired March 31, Martin A. Buzas Alan H. Cheetham Robert J. Emry Nicholas Hotton III Francis M. Hueber Jack W. Pierce Clayton E. Ray Thomas R. Waller Anna K. Behrensmeyer William A. DiMichele (Appointed September 15, 1985) Scott L. Wing (Appointed September 30, 1984)
Kenneth E. Lohman Venka V. Macintyre Sergius H. Mamay Robert B. Neuman
1985)
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Thomas F. Phelan John Pojeta, Jr.
Roy H. Reinhart Charles A. Repenning Kenneth D. Rose Bruce Runnegar William J. Sando Judith Schneider Vincent P. Schneider R. Craig Shipp Frederick J. Siegel Elwyn L. Simons Judith Skog
Roberta K. Smith-Everenden
Norman F. Sohl Donald Spoon
George D. Stanley, Jr. Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Druid Wilson Ellis L. Yochelson Rinaldo Zinardi

<<<Page: 246>>>

Vertebrate Zoology
Chairman Collections Manager Administrative Assistant
Curators
Associate Curators
Curators
Curators
Curators
Associate Curator
W. Ronald Heyer J. Phillip Angle Anna L. Datcher
Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. Victor G. Springer Stanley H. Weitzman G. David Johnson Richard P. Vari
W. Ronald Heyer George R. Zug
Storrs L. Olson George E. Watson
(Resigned January 3, 1985) Richard L. Zusi
Charles O. Handley, Jr. James G. Mead
Richard W. Thorington, Jr. Michael D. Carleton
Secretary Emeritus Special Assistant Museum Specialist
S. Dillon Ripley Adele Y. Issa Bruce M. Beehler

<<<Page: 247>>>

John W. Aldrich (Birds)
John S. Ash (Birds)
Richard C. Banks (Birds)
John C. Barber (Birds)
Bruce M. Beehler (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)
Gregory D. Bentz (Birds)
Michael A. Bogan (Mammals )
Heraldo Britski (Fishes)
Eleanor D. Brown (Birds)
Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals )
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)
C. Kenneth Dodd, Jr. (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Andrzej Elzanowski (Birds)
Louise H. Emmons (Mammals )
Robert K. Enders (Mammals)
Carl H: Hrust (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Alan Feduccia (Birds)
Sara V. Fink (Fishes)
William L. Fink (Fishes)
Mercedes S. Foster (Birds)
Thomas H. Fritts (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Jeffery Froehlich (Mammals)
Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)
Michael Goulding (Fishes) Martha B. Hays (Birds) Richard Highton (Amphibians and Reptiles) George J. Jacobs (Amphibians and Reptiles) Frances C. James (Birds) Gordon L. Kirkland, Jr. (Mammals ) Irving L. Kornfield (Fishes) William H. Krueger (Fishes) Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds) John M. Legler (Amphibians and Reptiles) Roy W. McDiarmid (Amphibians and Reptiles) Antonio Machado-Allison (Fishes) Francisco Mago-Leccia (Fishes) Joe T. Marshall (Birds) Linda R. Maxson (Amphibians and Reptiles) Naercio Menezes (Fishes) : Joseph C. Mitchell (Amphibians and Reptiles) Ralph S. Palmer (Birds) Lynne R. Parenti (Fishes) Allan R. Phillips (Birds) Ronald H. Pine (Mammals ) Gregory K. Pregill (Amphibians and Reptiles) John E. Randall (Fishes) G. Carleton Ray (Mammals )

<<<Page: 248>>>

Randall R. Reeves (Mammals) S. Dillon Ripley (Birds) Cc. Brian Robbins (Mammals) Alan H. Savitzky (Amphibians and Reptiles) Albert Schwartz (Amphibians and Reptiles) Norman J .cScott orc. (Amphibians and Reptiles) William F. Smith-Vaniz (Fishes) David W. Steadman (Birds) Kenneth J. Sulak (Fishes) Stephen G. Tilley (Amphibians and Reptiles)
James C. Tyler (Fishes) Joseph P. Ward (Amphibians and Reptiles) Richard J..Wassersug (Amphibians and Reptiles) Marilyn Weitzman (Fishes) John S. Weske (Birds) Claudia P. Wilds (Birds) E. 0. Wiley (Fishes) James D. Williams (Fishes) Don E. Wilson (Mammals) David B. Wingate (Birds)
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
Director Administrative Assistant Marine Biologists
Leslie W. Knapp Patricia K. Buckley Frank D. Ferrari Gordon L. Hendler Betty J. Landrum Ernani G. Menez
Smithsonian Marine Station At Link Port
Scientist-in-Charge Administrative Officer Research Assistants
Director
Administrative Assistant Collections Coordinator Data Manager
Shipping Officer
Facility Manager
Mary E. Rice
June J. Jones William D. Lee Sherry Anne Petry Julianne Piraino Hugh F. Reichardt
U. Vincent Wilcox Patti B. Young Wendy C. Jessup Joan B. Andrews James Lee (Appointed June 23, 1985) Charles E. Dunn

<<<Page: 249>>>

National Zoological Park
Director eceosececoooonseeecaeaceeoaesoeeeeoaoeeeeecesaeeeeceo eees Michael H. Robinson Chief, Office of Public Affairs ...cccccccccccccccccessse RODErt J. Hoage Chief, Office of Education e@eesvseeestceseceee#se#eseeeeseeeseeeseeese Judith White Registrar e@eeeeoeevsoeceaoesceosceeeeeeeeeeseeseeeeeeesceeeeeeseoaeeee eae @ Judith Block
Executive Officer, Chief Office of Management Services ............++ee.. Vincent J. Doyle
BUGESCVOPLICEH so00screseeaisevccincioescacecsccesveedvcsececeond ames he Pitzpatnick
Personnel Coordinator ..sccccccccccccccccccscccscsecee Michael J. Johnson
Management Analyst eeeoetceaeoeoeceaeoeoeeeoeeeoeeeceeoseee ee eee eee ee ee Peter B. Kibbee Assistant Director for Support Services ...... scsssseseoe Gaetano G. Calise, Jr.
Assistant Director. for Research ........ iSiaks-a 6 ee elerere «ee. Devra G Kleiman
Assistant Director for Conservation and
Captive Breeding Programs ..ecccccccceee ecceccesseseee Christen M. Wemmer Curators: Department of Herpteology .csccccccccccccccccscscves Dale Marceilini Department. of Mammalogy sicccccewccaceccssecesseecs Edwin Gould Research Primatologist .c.ccsscccewesscsaccede Benjamin Beck Department of Ornithology wc.cccececceccveecs eeeeee SCOtt Derrickson
Department of Zoological Research: Assistant Director for Research ...ccccoceceee Devra G. Kleiman DCUVENCLE Gu OGAL Ts sec o.cietenaie@icleelacclavete eeiee o crereteiele Eugene S. Morton Katherine S. Ralls Miles Roberts Rasanayagam Rudran
Populativon sManager . ccsccre ce o,0:0 6.6.6 640'6.6 0 o.01cce apie «0° Jonathan Ballou
Research Associates and Affiliated Scientists (Zoological Research):
Associate in Ecology ...cccrecacee aieileteeveietetace cls S. Dillon Ripley

<<<Page: 250>>>

CollaboratonsSy circ shee cketelerewcieleras «
Adelmar Coimbra-Filho Priya Davidar Wolfgang Dittus — John F. Eisenberg Richard Estes John Frazier
John Gittleman Theodore Grand Russell G. Greenberg James G. Hallett Susan Lumpkin Naney Muckenhirn Galen B. Rathbun Douglas Richards John Robinson Kenhelm W. Scott Melvin Sunquist Betsy Trent Thomas
Susan Wilson
Department of Animal Health: Veterinarian-in-Charge e@ooeeereeveeoeeeeoeece ee eee R. Mitchell Bush
Associate Veterinarian .....ccsercccseccceesess Lyndsay Phillips, Jr. Animal Physiologist @eeescseaeocoee@eeecseseeseeseeeee @ David Wildt
Research Associates (Animal Health):
Prabir Chakraborty Beverly Gilroy Stephen J. O'Brien
Collaborators, ic.s,sieje eres aisiaeucnere rs aie
Michael D. Abramowitz Richard Alsakar Max J. Appel Kenneth C. Bovée Thomas McPherson Brown Harold Clark
Art Clexton M. Kathryn Hammock A. Everette James, Jr. John Knight
Seth A. Koch Bill Lasley Douglas W. McKay Stephen J. O'Brien Carroll Platz William J. Ravich Edward Ruley Patricia Schmidt
Department of Pathology: PathnolOgisSt—in=CHaAr Ge 2 ciccccccdvccscscccess Richard J. Montali
Research Associates (Pathology):
George P. Allen Richard Alsaker Max J.G. Appel Chris Gardiner George Imes Bruce Smith John Strandberg Bernard Zook

<<<Page: 251>>>

Department of Conservation, Front Royal, Virginia Curat or-in-Charge @e@oeoeeoeceseaoeceeeeeeeoeseeeoceee Christen M. Wemmer
Research Associates:
Peter August Joel Berger Richard Estes Charles McDougal Hemanta Mishra Rodney Jackson
Rickard Watling
Facilities Manager @eeeoeeteoeaceoceoseeoeeeeenoeeeeeeoee @ John N. Williams
Office of Support Services
Office of Facilities Management Chief eeeescesesoeaoeoeoeoeseeoeeeeeeeeeceeeeseeoeeseeeaeeee @ David Boothe
Office of Construction Management GNUeL Oise csisaieeecsieesieseceeeeecerciesee cee cece DONakaCMuddiman
Office of Graphics and Exhibits CHILO Li ciale aye o:0'eraiejereve)0\e ew eevereies 0.06 04 0 1000s sieves RODEPGo EN. Mulicahy
Office of Police and Safety COLCT ecicrewisc piace ssc aeeies cartels wee sweeeecelse Samer. Middlevoniarurys
Friends of the National Zoo
Executive Director (Acting) ....ceccecccccececeeees RODeErt Mason
Acting Director--~----~---------------------------Roberta W. Rubinoff Administrative Officer------------~---------------Catherine F. Harris Grants Program Manager—---------------~-----------Francine C. Berkowitz Grants Program Assistant—-------------------------L. Ernelle Ross Academic Programs Manager------------------------Raymond W. Branham Academic Network Coordinator—-------------------=--Magali M. Carrera Academic Programs Specialist---------------------Jacki Thompson Rand Academic Programs Assistant----------------------=Carolin McManus Records Coordinator--------------------=----------Amelia Crittenberger

<<<Page: 252>>>

Director Irwin Shapiro
Lois Aguilar-Chiu Yoram Avni Eugene H. Avrett Robert Babcock Sallie L. Baliunas Eric Bloemhof Donato Bramanti Victoria Buch Nathaniel P. Carleton Frederic H. Chaffee Kelly V. Chance John Chandler
Jon H. Chappell M. Mark Colavito James B. Conklin, Jr. Allan F. Cook, II Valerie de Lapparent Robert J. Davis Marino Dobrowolny Andrzej K. Drukier Andrea K. Dupree Martin S. Elvis Robert Estes Giuseppina Fabbiano Daniel G. Fabricant Michel Faucherre Giovanni G. Fazio George B. Field Edward L. Fireman William Forman Jane L. Fox
Fred A. Franklin Franco Fuglini Larry Gardner John C. Geary Margaret Geller Owen Gingerich Isabella Gioia
Leon Golub
Paul Gorenstein Mario Grossi Stephen L. Guberman Gordon Gullahorn Alan H. Guth
Carl R. Gwinn Shadia Habbal
F. R. Harnden, Jr. Daniel Harris
Lee W. Hartmann Robert G. Hohlfeld John P. Huchra
John Hughes Edward Imbier Christine Jones-Forman Kenneth Kalata Wolfgang Kalkofen Scott Kenyon
Kate Kirby
David G. Koch John L. Kohl Michael Kurtz Robert L. Kurucz Donald Q. Lamb David W. Latham Myron Lecar Russell M. Levreault Robert R. Lewis Alan P. Lightman Florence J. Lin Edward Lilley Enrico Lorenzini Tommaso Maccacaro Brian Marsden Ursula B. Marvin Robert D. Mathieu Edward Mattison Jeffrey McClintock Richard E. McCrosky Gary J. Melnick James Moran Stephen Murray Philip Myers
Peter Nisenson Robert W. Noyes Costas Papaliolios William H. Parkinson Francis Primini Harrison E. Radford John C. Raymond Robert Reasenberg Mark Reid
George B. Rybicki Rudolph Schild Daniel Schwartz Joseph Schwarz Frederick Seward Michael Shao
Jack Slowey
Robert Stachnik Robert P. Stefanik Harvey Tananbaum Wesley Traub
Ginevra Trinchieri Wallace Tucker Jean Turner Giuseppe Vaiana Leon Van Speybroeck Robert Vessot George A. Victor Trevor C. Weekes Wei Shen
Steven Weinberg Fred L. Whipple Charles A. Whitney Belinda Wilkes Steven P. Willner George L. Withbroe John A. Wood Diana Worrall Kouichi Yoshino Martin Zombeck

<<<Page: 253>>>

DTTC O Tove esi o) cneietelelelc)aletereusiate ene evsiiexc ere e-eie.evecclereros Wil team pire. Kulenisn
Assistant DirectorsS....c.ec.
Ceesvedevecceees David Ls Correia Walter Shropshire, Jr.
Executive Officer. .ccccccscccevcccccseesceee: Garolyn M. Walker
Administrative Officer......
ccceccccacoeecece JOoSeph C. Fisher
OFFLice Manager. sescccccreccceccvoceccovesese, Joanne Battista
Facilities Manager..ccccccecce
$06 ee: sieve terse eiessnoe.sRODETL, N. ,Davacs
Program Assistants. for Public Information... Linda Chick
Judy Collins
Agricultural Engineer.....ccecccccecceceeeee JONN Sager
Anthropologist....cscccccesee
S42 ose oeecjese eet RODELL Stuckenrath
BUOCHEMES Eisis s:c10101s 0.0.6 ce.esessiecs cee wees ee. Maurice Margulies
Bi OUOLTUSIE siexsiejs,s 6 4-0 0.0.00 6.0.6 e080
4 06 8 6.6.00 sre04s.eieGlasabeth Gantt
GEN GEUCIS Uierereicie's eusieieie slale aie siesvelaie a e.0ie, eee cyalerie gROY Wie HaArGine rs Jit.
LLY SiGAisiteieisieie.e 1 e1sie' 1 014s (6 6166
0 600.0000 e%60 ste, Bernard Goldberg
Plant ECOLOLISE. .cscsccesescecesecccvcesccges Dennis F. Whigham
Plant Physiologists.........
Meliss eie.s,e.0%ele elec ery Oharles! b. Cleland Gerald Deitzer Bert G. Drake William O. Smith
LOOUOSLSES eis cere oe sos se sits csscceees cesueiancice es ANSON H. Hines
Affiliated Scientists:
BHOCHEMAUSIE seis eletere © os .ce ereveieiere
James F. Lynch
a ee: Barbara Chereskin
ECOMO SUSIE <5 ic vle eso 00's sie oe. sieve ole eo efeieielcwielsieies) LUOMaS) Ee Jordan
MOGGWETS ier: atclevere oie evetelensue aveletes
seecececvecesevee Henry McKellar Donald Weller
Pilani BLOUO SUSE <0. ow cio wisiele 4 sueioresicheseieeiiose clo lorael Levy
Pilant Physiologist sisis/s) es cve.0%
ceeccccccoeeesse Francis X. Cunningham; Jr.
Zoologist..... eteiaere aveneielers Serre eslalsiexe eietevevslere (ROMUALA Lipeius
Smithsonian Office of Educat
Director Administrative Assistant
Research Psychologist
ional Research
John H, Falk Mary Mangone John D, Balling Deborah D, Hilke

<<<Page: 254>>>

Da at=\o Moka sinerco ho COR OOO pies ajeisislesieie sic oe olla MRUDINOLE Deputy DLO CEOS 26 sists oe cscs ere Gus viotetole efoto este ames Rj wKarr SENPOT SCHEMES Cis ereie. cisco wisieie ele eles siel4 eevee Martin H. Moynihan Executive: OffICEr see 5 Wels Sieleeiels cies sresroe hank am eMoOrrd Ss (Resigned 08/31/85) Special Assistant to the Director........ .-Elena Lombardo
Superintendent, Barro Colorado
Nature: Monument s..cc cectesiscesscsescctses es Gilberto Ocana Facilities Manager... .c.ccecccceccescecveseeekamon Ely
Chief, Procurement Section.............+.-Mercedes Arroyo Personnel SpecialisSt......eseceeseeeeeeeee-Hernando Leyton Coordinator, Educational Programs.........Georgina de Alba Budget Analyst ccccccwcdeiccessvese sv ese oes ss Carmen sucre
Scientific Staff
John H. Christy Richard G. Cooke John Cubit Robert L. Dressler William G. Eberhard Peter W. Glynn
(resigned 08/17/85) Stephen P. Hubbell Jeremy J.C. Jackson Nancy Knowlton Egbert G. Leigh, Jr. Harilaos A. Lessios Olga F. Linares G. Gene Montgomery A. Stanley Rand D. Ross Robertson Arcadio F. Rodaniche David W. Roubik Alan P. Smith Neal G. Smith Nicholas Smythe Mary Jane West-Eberhard Donald M. Windsor Hindrik Wolda S. Joseph Wright
Research Associates Annette Aiello Robin Andrews Carlos Arellano-Lennox Charles Bennett, Jr. John Bort Nicholas Brokaw Gordon M. Burghardt Terry E. Christenson Mireya Correa
Luis D'Croz
Kerry Ann Dressler Robin Foster Nathan Gale
Pedro Galindo Judy Gradwohl Jeffrey B. Graham Stanley Heckadon Leslie Johnson Yael Lubin
Ernst Mayr
Jorge Motta Anthony Ranere Michael Ryan
Myra Shulman Gordon B. Small W. John Smith
F. Gary Stiles Henry Stockwell Katherine Troyer Paulo E. Vanzolini Fritz Vollrath

<<<Page: 255>>>

Acting Assistant Secretary ...... eeeeeeee Dean Anderson Special ASSISTANT seseeerevceseeecens »+++ Beverly Lang Administrative Officer ....cssceccsscveees Patricia DuVall
DPRECEOT,, evecie.'e, sp eueleteys oie e1eis)c)ayeere ones. 10.6, 6 John R. Kinard Administrative OLFICeT w.cdie cc else eed Audrey Archer Drrector of Research, -cjejccvsjc.ene-cic saye.ee Vacant
PSEOGUAN sie evcte-ereve. cicero: 010/0,0,000'6) 0:06 6 0.06 Louise Hutchinson Education Specialist —i.icieccie, sre neve sicler ec Zora Felton Supervisory Visual
intormation Specialist. .iricss 3 seas os. <, 4 Sharon Reinckens Supervisory Exhibits
Specralisit..c. cua enie + os wileiie allel obeliare le exere .. dames Mayo PHOCOPLAPHET | wieieic oresers cieie sis o ove e's. cee ees Christopher Capilongo
Washington Headquarters Office
Director Richard N. Murray Senior Curator Garnett McCoy Curator of Manuscripts Arthur Ereton Collections Manager Judy E. Throm Area Collector Liza Kirwin Administrative Officer Sherrill Berger
New York Headquarters Office
Deputy Director Susan Hamilton Developnient Officer Ilene Rubin Administrative Assistant Larry Clark
Midwest Regional Center Regional Director Sue Ann Kendall
New York Regional Center Regional Director William McNaught
New England Regional Center Recional Director Robert Brown
West Coast Regional Center Regional Director Paul Karlstron
Southern California Research Center Area Collector Stella Paul

<<<Page: 256>>>

FREER GALLERY OF ART and the ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
DIT CCLON saree eaters orn ce weloee Sunde boa teed Assistant Director, Freer Gallery. 6.66 cies 406 Assistant Director, Sackler Gallery.......... Administrative JOf ff Cet ecient « »6:)4 5/9/5:5:0-4/exalej4 Curaton, | Chinese “ATE cro6 escisierete s 01.0) 6/s1eie) 6; 16, sie, 018 Curator, Near Eastern) (Art iecie so ajs,0 0:0 316,070, s,0/0 Assistant Curator, Japanese AYrt..ccccssecsees Coordinator of Special Programs......ce.seeees Head Conservator, Technical
TAD OTAC OLY .cyexetorcletsvorsteteversvoroce lel eve oe el eceieie sep ouevessye COnSETVAELON wS CLONES Es crenete) eve «0/0, sc h0re.0-010,0 ieseyere CONSETT VAEO Ti eiere, ajetsnefetoieve sleseicveife.s: 0/0. 6:0. 0\eie),0 sie'seels CONS CHVAC OTs atereterelaheteralorsierelete svere se 51-60, 0 es ersieiels ConsSermvattomySCLemMeELS ER atevere s «e166 0 cies. ahs oiei eee Head Gonservat lon 7S pectalUsStis 2 cies «,ecieisess.e8e1siene ConServabswony Spee Palais sy ioycve ere teiare-arsheeredeysraecenexe Museum Specialist (Ceramics) ...c.ccccsscccces Museum Specialist (Ceramics) ci. e0s0 eee cle cies EXM UD TEPOM POESAOT CTs eyaleve co) 5/010) 0):e\ 6: 61c,¢10.0'e eiaieie ers.
WUD Har UuAM se soles cvese osere
Assistant Librarians ccc. eeceee
Head Registrar...... Regis CEAT6<0,s101 <6 « and Marketing....
Docent Coordinator.... Honorary Associates..
Director of Merchandising
eeeseeeveeesee eee oe ee eee eee e
Registrarial Specialist. ....e..s
eoeoveeceevece
eoeeeeoeceeee se eeee eee eee e ee
eeoeeeee
.Ellen A.
Thomas Lawton Richard Louie
Milo C. Beach
Sarah Newmeyer-Hill Shen C. Y. Fu
Glenn D. Lowry
Ann Yonemura
Esin Atil
W. Thomas Chase
John Winter
Paul Jett
Jane Norman
Janet Snyder
Ryo Nishiumi Yoshiyuki Nishio Louise A. Cort Josephine H. Knapp Patrick H. Sears, III Nollman Lily Chia-Jen Kecskes Eleanor Radcliffe Harriet McWilliams Emily J. Dyer
Rosaria Guaragna Gayle Southworth Richard Edwards
Calvin French

<<<Page: 257>>>

Dstarae Get O Vipscrekoy suey shale ey avalsveuerslie? exeioresetelele teice Assistant Director.......«. pualeseVeveusavers INGA TTIATTHS EVR OY enev atone eueue-0:lselevrers sist efelleieenel's Administrative Specialist. ..0c.20..8 Administrative Assistant to Director...
Curator of Drawings and Prints....... Curator of Decorative Arts...........
Curator ‘of Textiles: ..c..0000 00. s
Assistant Curator‘of Textiles. «<6...
Pibieaiteiliattiacershe clovotel ofexe aveie els spect sel aia ecerei cus ConsServators MEXtT1ES .. ccccccscedees 73 CONSEVaATONS PADS ics <0 cistereas saree Me
REGIS EVAiia anche cre nied sua 0 oxaneraiet ore’el Pele! ofalats EGAWOV otiidletevesdco diate oue EN ee ee EXhi D1 ETON COONGINALOM: ace cies a's eeu EXMTDT CON DESTONEMRS « is:0% ware’ oie’ siaiahaatets
Exhibition Researcher..<.cccscscesces Public Information Manager........... PrOGisalt COON ETNA TOR Sis. oo creia'e'a'sdhates’s Program! COONGHANATON is «6-4-4 ~et0t ta a'ee%s
GO @ile SO CUNGT E Vics oie sara.saiarSelacs Yo celereta tore BuhGanta! MaMmaGer 2.0%, <i' «scr «ichwle ois
Lisa Taylor
Harold Francis Pfister
Linda Dunne
William Gaske
Larry Deemer (Appointed 9/3/85)
Elaine Evans Dee
David Revere McFadden
Milton Sonday
Gillian Moss
Katharine Martinez
Lucy Commoner
Konstanze Bachmann
Cordelia Rose
Nancy Akre
Dorothy Globus
Robin Parkinson
Lucy Fellowes
Isabelle Silverman
Susan Yelavich
George King (Appointed 7/29/85)
Luis Palau
Jim Ledford
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Director
Deputy Director Executive Officer Chief Curator
Curator of Exhibitions Associate Curators
Librarian Chief Conservator
Conservators
Registrar
Chief, Education
Chief, Exhibits and Designs Public Information Officer Photographer
Building Manager
James T. Demetrion Stephen E. Weil Nancy F. Kirkpatrick Charles W. Millard Cynthia Jaffee McCabe Valerie Fletcher Howard N. Fox
Frank B. Gettings Phyllis Rosenzweig Judith Zilczer
Anna Brooke
Laurence Hoffman (Appointed October 21, Leland Aks
Clarke Bedford
Susan Lake Antoinette Owen Douglas Robinson Edward Lawson
Joseph Shannon Sidney Lawrence
Lee Stalsworth
Frank Underwood
19385)

<<<Page: 258>>>

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS HOP COU aeiecats eine ca ea Wie sacs sie ieeiec oe were a) NOtCHan I heineold Associate Editor.......eseeees Went Nie iar otal ore .. Marc Rothenberg Assistant! “Editors. os. cc ehs lee welle's « hes Ree .... Kathleen W. Dorman Paul Theerman Administrative Officer. (chilies oes seaeceess Beverly Jo -Lepley
DER SCEO Ti essteieteus sfeve cleterereis eieeiie\eherer eters ..-.-Sylvia H. Williams Associate Director for Collections and Research........Roy Sieber Assistant DITeCtOrs iwc se es.ceceeceesetean Salan Founding Director Emeritus............Warren Robbins Curators... sien Wdeteletels es sas e cle ecas sre sUydla Puccinelis Roslyn A. Walker Assistant Curators...........c.ee.e.---bryna Freyer Andrea Nicolls Public Affairs Officer................Margaret Bertin
Curator of Education........ Veeaieise es setdward Litschitez Operations Manager....... sie seis eieie sess basis Arendse Chief, Office of Design..... oeeeeeeee Richard Franklin CONSCIVaAtOLs sock nce ccc nccesccesvees.otephen Mellor PNOPOCAT CMA VAS Eis 1% oi erereiene) siete eel elise: 6 ...-Judith Luskey PEDAL TAT o soi iai's oie op a's 6. eke oe Srevel one) siete ci enste Janet Stanley
Docent/Intern Coordinator..... eoees-.-Marjorie Turgel

<<<Page: 259>>>

Director
Assistant Director, Chief Curator Assistant Director, Museum Programs Assistant Director, Museum Resources
Charles C. Eldredge Elizabeth Broun
Barbara Shissler Nosanow Charles J. Robertson
Assistant to the Director Administrative Officer
Senior Curatorial Advisor Director, Renwick Gallery Curator, Renwick Gallery Curator, Research
Curator, Barney Studio House Curators, Painting and Sculpture
Associate Curator, Painting and Sculpture Curator, Graphic Arts
Associate Curators, Graphic Arts
Assistant Curator, Painting and Sculpture
Senior Conservator
Conservators
Deputy Assistant Director for Museum Programs
Chief, Office of Design and Production
Chief Designer, Office of Design and
Production Chief, Office of Intern Programs Chief, Office of Public Affairs
Julie A. Schimmel Sherwood A. Dowling Adelyn D. Breeskin Lloyd E. Herman Michael W. Monroe Lois M. Fink
Jean L. Lewton
Virginia H. Mecklenburg
Harry Z. Rand William.H. Truettner
Robin L. Bolton-Smith Janet L. Flint (resigned 10/5/84) Merry A. Foresta Martina R. Norelli
Lynda Roscoe Hartigan
Stefano Scafetta
Ann M. Creager
Katherine G. Eirk (resigned 7/19/85)
R. Quentin Rankin
Meredith P. Mickelson
Judith R. O'Sullivan David B. Keeler (resigned 3/15/85)
Val E. Lewton Patricia H. Chieffo Margery A. Byers

<<<Page: 260>>>

Chief, Office of Research Support
Assistant Chief, Office of Research Support
Coordinator, Computer Resources
Coordinator, Inventory of American Paintings
Head, Special Services Programs Editor, Office of Publications
Registrar
Assistant Registrar for Loans
Assistant Registrar for Permanent Collection
Assistant Registrar for Packing and Shipping
Producer, Art Documentaries
_ Head, Docents and Volunteer Services’
Chier Photographer Librarian NMAA/NPG Assistant Librarian NMAA/NPG
Building Manager NMAA/NPG
Eleanor E. Fink
Rachel M. Allen James L. Yarnall (resigned 2/1/85)
Martha §. Andrews (resigned 11/2/84) Margaret P. Cogswell Gaye L. Brown (appointed 4/14/85) W. Robert Johnston Melissa L. Kroning
Thomas W. Bower
*Michael R. Smallwood
Alison R. Abelson Nora M. Panzer Michael G. Fischer Cecilia H. Chin Patricia M. Lynagh (appointed 9/3/85) Helen M. Dalaski

<<<Page: 261>>>

DIRIGO oe efeiic 6's 6 &l0'Gi 6.6.6 cc sie @ So 0re epayeroioueketn See « Roger G. Kennedy Deputy DITeECtOr.. ..ccccccscccsscesesesscess Douglas E. Evelyn Assistant Director for Administration..... Ronald E. Becker . Admunestratave OLL1 CCX sw. 2 -4.. oes © s016« sie erate cite Richard J. Nicastro Special Assistants to the Director........ Naomi Glass
Lawrence A. Bush Richard S. Virgo Museum Support Manager. cceccceecsccveccece Renee Kortum National Numismatics Collections
HU SHEO IGN aM eves elkeke eho wie eo. 9 ©, ouewenele) ee ee Mevetouw =e receneiie Elvira Clain-Stefanelli GUITEAE © ero peutever ois, 6.0/0.6 wilox6 e110 -e Silene, ele eis «ei e/eeliej oveneel's Coralee ise Gili liand
National Philatelic Collections MXCCUETVE DIrECEOR «<0 2 s0ise-<s aratae. s) ete veneiteowewete Herbert R. Collins CUBA OS icine « o.e.015 0:6 60 ae ee S$ sane Reidar Norby James H. Bruns Afro-American Communities Project
DIETS CRONE io feve! on.eeke ace love fo. oe oeiiel obs le eersve ele evedene eke James O. Horton
Archives Center
Sendo (AGeCHiViSt.. ss) s..0s sce aie exe er ere sieusvevorere John Fleckner ACMA VIS tee iche ce sie 06 elie (one (elle ole ieifeieysne velevlele lo (oles Robert Harding HGS POAT sve wi eles leis «6 oko tauaioyesece ciel eforetevouel> iexe Gece Spencer Crew
Office of Building Management Bus Vos sManaGey <.4.6 sis. ecw 6 ee 2 we wile wee oe 0 08 James D. Whoolery Computer Services Center
CNIECE Sesc'ee Rofatotel oifeie:cl ah ate.o, eieiete ene Stieverereler@)els e166 6 Dennis S. Dickinson
Head IGOnSErVaACOT <ic.c.c16 00,6 elere\ Syafeleralelenele canons J. Scott Odell

<<<Page: 262>>>

Department of Exhibits
ASSiStant Director Lor Exhibits... sss. Secee J. Michael Carrigan Deputy Assistant DIFECtOr. ccc ccervccvesces Leonard Faber
Ghiet S Destan Diy LSTOM es sis ee ee ere acs cre we Deborah M. Bretzfelder Chieét FVEXNYDLtS “Production sss soak ese Se sce e Walter N. Lewis
Chaet Hustorie Restoration. <5. cscs ewes es Charles Rowell
Department of Public Programs
Assistant «Director for Public ‘Programs...'. Lonn «Taylor DESIG Seisiete sce Sele ee ess ewe cesses enc eeseces Crimilda Pontes Director, Program in
Black wAmerican! “HiSTOFY cic oes) eres wwe Bernice Reagon CUI One tea relepaais) o atanenere itr eene e767 svaielelscevaieva-s mi aia cele Robert Selim SCUUG cts O Meda aie) alete ers ee) aie ieee) eicia'o\s avele sie 0s 6, <2. 6/6 Elizabeth Sharpe Perrormances DELCCCOLK. + <s\c 5 o/s seic sd: e'e.6%s 0 ses. % James Weaver PrOGUCEMON? DiUECCTCON cscs « s's's's'e'6 2's 0 ss so « 5 6 6 Harold Closter Publi Ce in roOrmMae1On, OfLUCST . oc osc wists orcs 6 ere Mary Dyer PU Cd er ONs sOme Cer orc a see) cms 51) oreo wo oce'te ace Camellia Taiwo
Office of the Registrar
REGUS TE Galles cree ereretesjeie!sieens)'s oie 6161 o2s' 016 6)! 01/8) 66s Martha Morris Shannon INSSU Sian eRe GaSe at crereiers evale o sie leis © oc) s/weieie ous Katherine P. Spiess
Department of the History of Science and Technology
CS ipcite ei et eters etce re eye crete e ce leee «cee o Wie os 4.0 la"es aie ei aire Arthur P. Molella DEDUEY ws cies o's nies 4.0.6 © 5 Olen 's.6:0 6.06 4 0646 6 d's 6 6 6 William L. Withuhn
Agriculture and Natural Resources
ECUITAEOLS 270% cise wis aisle o 8 eye lenwiece beter eves eve terse James C. Daniel George T. Sharrer
Armed Forces History
Curate OS ce ever) 16 aHalioteeretetetetere e/ cleletelenenelevele siecle Edward C. Ezell ' Donald E. Kloster i Harold D. Langley Bar StOrilamn. ieei.s ayaneMetciel at olelioe sr ceeiereceterereder ere evs. ave James Hutchins Curator BMELIVEUS. 6 oe ce-ch sre wisi ces bis mee 06 Siete Craddock R. Goins, Jr.
Electricity and Modern Physics
Curators sans. Siete HONE otnhe lone velo Suave a. Go Guawere: Cree ene Bernard Finn Paul Forman
Mathematics
GUrAEOG A sts.cts shal oh cvienovale is elie jerelciiovclereloveselevee aueve evens Uta C. Merzbach
ie) \O

<<<Page: 263>>>

Mechanisms
GUNG OLS eee ctevere o o.c cava c-clais 6 wiclg esos Gk ee 6 e's lace Carlene Stephens David Noble
Medical Sciences
GUase OISieteveue, onsite) snesc/eelepe (so) ose © os excuse, efenenepers shone] s Audrey B. Davis
‘ Ramunas A. Kondratas
Barbara Melosh
@uisaie O EMCI EU'S sys eeeyers: <0 6 le ee 01 e) sue s\s e615 ote Sami K. Hamarneh Mechanical and Civil Engineering
(Cbkashelopas Coop ni Cerin OOOO or Oe erie Robert M. Vogel Photographic History
Guise Oitarepenenetonsite Ye taltens:.6 \e 0] eve ie leivelle>ever e/e\'s es) s (s)-5 ells) eweus Eugene Ostroff
Physical Sciences
GUisaite OlsSirepereverc 1s10 wi'e\0\ os) 6 felevotoleielele:s ues okeye (ole eherexe Deborah J. Warner Jon B. Eklund
Transportation CW alt= OWS reyroltereis ele tol elio ves s)oNoicua eke sie castenseitererelecelele e John H. White ; William L. Withuhn Curator? HMC 2 GUS ~ ais aie lenw sie tewe.ahe eee «a 0.0 Philip Lundeberg Senior Historian's Office HeeSite Oram RIMM ANE LIS|< oi5.0,.S:e' 6 wore wieiece:e one.eisene-sie Brooke Hindle Senvote SSrenELEIC SCHOLAY « 6.cc0 d0.0 ose sees Robert P. Multhauf Technology and Culture IF; Clelgt|@Torete fetes ee ewevel sei sielecovoue ls ao, 01e0e-6. 66/0 34-0 vene se esas ve Robert Post
Department of Social and Cultural History
ROTI Tea ayia faialgsiyeuea.lal essa oy oi ease mye, aVecé i a. #) 9©,.0;5.6 ome Gary B. Kulik VEC Cl CliiclistaMclinchetelets eteleneieveloiere siciele-e evsteretel se el ele c Susan H. Myers
Ceramics and Glass
Cust Oeyetevsl sleye) ap@ieheirelle’ Sire eile ‘eiieiielelej seer eieveuene) aeteveece Susan H. Myers SiisaeOr GEM WES e166 eye cponeis elie elie ele guereieiles eels leis J. Jefferson Miller II

<<<Page: 264>>>

Community Life
Grate OG Siovehorencistones cuisreveyerete: o
Costume
CWE ate Ose lee wie ejece] elleiesc! oe! cele CURATOR, Mer IES cre 6) chee
Domestic Life
CUA OS tevez. aie cyeke le ote dsiere: elete
Graphic Arts
@wTsaieOmSieie eere ec1o ore) evel or eneie
Musical Instruments
CUGEGEOES 6.66 «evens 06st 0 6 ders
Political History CUM AUEOT Steves « olsiever ele! sie) aa0s Curator EMerrtus.,3). «ess s Textiles
CUTAT OE 66-66 6. s.0 sete 6 elexeye oe
Richard E. Ahlborn Carl H. Scheele
Claudia B. Kidwell Anne W. Murray
Anne C. Golovin Rodris C. Roth Barbara C. Smith
Elizabeth M. Harris Helena C. Wright
John T. Fesperman Cynthia A. Hoover John E. Hasse Horace Boyer
Edith P. Mayo Keith E. Melder Margaret B. Klapthor
Rita J. Adrosko

<<<Page: 265>>>

National Portrait Gallery
Director. =. s Ae Oe eat act oy cote reign ee ae Assistant DAT ECEOE for Collections Buona Hes : Assistant Director for History and Public Programs Executive OfFFICeEr”. . . . De apenionits ancy we Curator of Painting and Scuipeure sou nentislaes rest sits Gurator of -Exhiibrtioms: <M. 8 a) [sir «! %
Associate Curators of Painting and Sculpture .
Guratonror Primes: Sarsete 6 os tee eos) el ol 6 don fo Gurator of Photographs .°. 2. 2 6 6 6 « «) s Curator of Education .......
Editor of Publications . . . . 3 « «
Chief, Design and Production... ae
Keeper and National Survey eoocdinaron. Catalog ‘GE
American Portraits ..... : Editor of the Charles Willson pean Papers Fort
Historian of American Culture ...... IG DGARTAN “69s. 6 «© 6 « © 6 6 6 *© © © # @ o % Conservator... Mets Lie ret Wome eemn enero cer tis aes ne Senior Papcoerapnen Registrar... : PORTE Uric SCR Set ed err rs Public Affairs Ofriter:
Office of American Studies DiVCGEOM< sss 6.c.6 « «ave Wilcomb E. Washburn
Alan FernCarolyn K. CarrMare Pachter
Barbara A. Hart Robert G. Stewart
Beverly J. CoxMonroe Fabian
Ellen Miles Wendy Wick Reaves
. William F. StappKenneth Yellis . Frances S. Wein
Nello Marconi
Richard K. Doud
Lillian B. Miller
Cecilia Chin Cindy Lou Molnar Eugene Mantie Suzanne Jenkins Sandra Westin
Acting Assistant Secretary........ William N. Richards PROGRAM AANA Y Sitio. os) sceis cice'eveisiti-ciehereiioxe Thomas J. Peyton
Dare SEOT a. 0) oy ceyaientici ie) We Ker ve! 6) youth outs Deputy, Director. 66: 6 sive os 4 os 4 © Administrative Officer. ....... Information Specialist. .......
Conservation Information Aide. . Conservation
Supervisory Conservator. .... Senior Textile Conservator. ... Senior Paintings Conservator. .... Senior Objects Conservator. ..... Objects Conservators . ... +...
Lambertus van Zelst Alan W. Postlethwaite Vernetta M. Williams Marjorie W. Cleveland Bernard F. Gallagher
Eleanor McMillan
. Mary W. Ballard
Roland H. Cunningham Carol A. Grissom Mary L. Garbin
Donna K. Strahan
Susan West

<<<Page: 266>>>

Senior Paper Conservators...
Senior Furniture Conservator. .
Furniture Conservator. .....
Conservation Science Ghief Sctentiists. . 2. 2 3st Senior Conservation Scientist. . Conservation Scientist. .... Research Scientist. ..... .
Metalturedstes 2m) ws 6 al 6 Research: Chemists). 7°." 2S)?
Archaeometry
Administrator of Archaeometry. .
Research Archaeologist. .... Senior Research Chemist. .... Senior Research Physicist. ... Research Chemist. .......
Research Associates
Visiting Scientist
Interns
National Museum Act
. Timothy J. Vitale Dianne van der Reyden. Marc A. WilliamsDonald Williams
: Edward V. Sayre David W. Von EndtTimothy Padfield
ee Joan W. Mishara
: Pamela Vandiver
5 Martha Goodway
: David Erhardt Walter Hopwood Harold Westley
Jacqueline S. Olin C Ronald L. Bishop%M. James BlackmanYu-Tarng Cheng : Emile C. Deal
Susan Hobbs David W. Kingery Robert M. Organ Rita P. Wright
Veletta Canouts
Ann Boulton Jane Sugarman
Program Goord nator’. cu\se se sees eeharpara K. Schneider
Director Chief of Production Assistant to Director
Chief of Design and Editing Administrative Officer Supervisor, Model Shop Supervisor, Fabrication Supervisor, Graphic Production
James A. Mahoney, Jr. John C. Widener
Karen Hummer Fort William M. Clark, Jr. Walter G. Sorrell Kenneth R. Clevinger James A. Speight, Jr.

<<<Page: 267>>>

DiipeOOtOL, vc lsfekehohenene slots, cfenelenefele[isielols eneisie.0 James R. Buckler Administrative Officer ........c.cce0Peter J. Nerret Coordinator of Horticultural Services Lauranne C. Nash Foreman, Grounds Management Division Kenneth Hawkins Manager, Greenhouse-Nursery Division August A. Dietz IV Museum Specialist ...secccccevccccee Kathryn Meehan
Office of Mus eum Programs
DiMmEGLO wen etc oe reese che ee oes ac tease teen ceed ree Jane R. Glaser AGHIMSOL ac IV ASSUS CaNta tac vs vies 6st se pad ons ae ae mies ee eee Mary J. Paden Assistant Program Manager and
Native American Museums Program Coordinator................4. Nancy Fuller Kellillogg@Proyect Coordinator 2222s. sccccs we os occa se cous eine Philip D. Spiess II Kellogg: Project Program ASSTStANnt ©. 2... sceseesdecesweeccsee Margo Del Vecchio RedmoggerroqeGt JEValIUATOM Je cies se alee tie see ee a eects atten n Robert Wolf lipaaiminGeReOGiram COORdIMACOIe rc ate sete asctare o claie cro. s esis cca aie cuss Mary Lynn Perry On-site Norkshop-P rogram: COOrdINdtOY fas ccc see koe ences bere Patricia Barrows Intern and Visiting Professionals
BOC GOOMRGH Mac Olarcpeyerseycters e's cyst cisyscereiev shavaves Gaels clei ere Sues aay a veueneue ees Bruce C. Craig hudvavasual: Program Coordinator jc2c2s25-sc00e bec as cea sacs Laura T. Schneider AEN EMP ROdUGETION SDCCTaINS Ce omic,c a ereie cols suena ote Srraseke melee cituareie Stephen Cupp DiSGIDULTON COOTCINA EON 3. tcl assole ee eanrie ¢ wise Bleivis owen ea: cn ales Bettie J. Lee Museum Rererence Center Librarian <i0osc <tc wwsis'soveese o's acs Catherine Scott
IRE PF AUSIET AIS “aire eres ok lanctonorehetolietetsteverele s Vacant SECO CAI yim clelesekecekelieiere stele, 0 arenes seit Athena Mylonas
AQCHIVASE ssecscc ssc Booe aiecsa se éSace mace eve 4 dines eralea ee William W. Moss DEPUEVPAMCOAVAS, Le cient scpis eras eels bis'e eee o's eee ware cs William A. Deiss Associate ArFcHIViSE .és.eses Siersavaversi aiovereioCoerstere -. Alan L. Bain Assistant Archivists ....... aie, os aero eve Sieie ex8 oie: eee. William E. Cox Susan Westgate Glenn Harry G. Heiss
William R. Massa, Jr.
James A. Steed
Diane L. Vogt-O'Connor HaStoriall\ shea eee vse See as fowler a oe eiex Seserecercsesecioe Pamela M. tHensen

<<<Page: 268>>>

Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Director eeeeseeeveeveeneeveeoeeoeoevoeeeaeevoeeeeveeeseeoeee ee DEDUEY) DATE CUO s oie wes cre ei eleic ole ee eicte le c's ons «es 0 ee SPECTAINASSUSEANE ccc cece cloteinecersieisls o6 ofers le essleie
Manager,
Planning & AdminiStration weccecccoce Administrative Assistant Publications Officer
Manager, Automated Systems DiviSion ....eceeee Systems AdMiniStrator ceescccecescccccccsecs
Chief, Automated Bibliographic Control
Chief, Catalogue Records sescccscccvecvesecee
Chief, Original Indexing Services
Catalog uerrnigcrclere sve crepes exe) 6) ore) 0: 6: shaxeveserallerene:s\erere’ eve
Cataloguer Cataloguer
eoeeereeeceeree en eeeoe ee ece ee eee eoeeenee
Catalloguerrigecrsts:s «oc: <,0,0Lens slercleis ejaiersieileteieis erences Cataloguer, Special Collections ...........
Technical Information Specialist
Assistant Director and Manager, Research Services DiViSiOn weccccsscccesae
Central Services Unit
Unit Manager & Chief Librarian,
Central Reference & Loan Branch Reference Librarian, Reference Librarian,
CRL Branch CRL Branch
Library of Congress Liaison Librarian .....
Chief Librarian,
Museum Reference Center ...
Chief Librarian, Special Collections .......
History and Art Unit
Unit Manager & Chief Librarian,
SIL Branch, NMAH
Reference Librarian,
eeceeceeeeoereoceoe ee eevee eee ee oO
SIL Branch, NMAH ..2..-.
Chief Librarian, Sib, Branch, OH <es0seoc sees
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, CHM
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAFA ...cecee.
Museum Support Center
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, MSC
‘Mary L.
Robert Maloy
Vija L. Karklins Silvio A. Bedini
Mary Augusta Rosenfeld Laudine C. Creighton Nancy L. Matthews
Vija L. Karklins Thomas Garnett Victoria Avera Brooke Henley Mary Jane H. Linn Helen Nordberg Margaret A. Sealor Angeline Smith Bertha H. Sohn Elder Mimi Scharf
Margaret S. Child
Mary Clare Gray Gloria Atkinson Barbara Veloz Janette K. Saquet Catherine D. Scott Ellen B. Wells
Rhoda Ratner Charles Berger Susan Gurney Katherine Martinez Janet L. Stanley
Karen Preslock

<<<Page: 269>>>

Natural Sciences Unit
Unit Manager & Chief Librarian,
STL BranchgcNMNH., scc:c.0c:¢ 010.0 0.000 0.0 eles 0's eleven. Ann Juneau Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH .coce Ruth Schallert Assistant Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH cocoe Mary K. Davies Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NZP .seccoeecce Kay Kenyon Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, SERC ...cececcee Angela Haggins Chief Librarian, Sib. Branch, STRI <<csssenes Sylvia Churgin Technical Information Specialist,
SIL-“Branch, STR wevsededewsvecivtesasiovecs Roberto Sarmiento
Physical Sciences Unit
Unit Manager & Chief Librarian,
Sia Branch NASM | 0:06: 0ie.0,.01's)-00;0; 41040, 0 everelonenexsvere Frank A. Pietropaoli Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM .eco.. Philip Edwards Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM ...o. Monica Knudsen Reference Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM ..... Amy Levin
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, SAO 2/. 0 csisd-s. 0% Joyce Rey-Watson
Assistant Director and Manager,
Collections Management DiviSion .ec.cecceee Nancy E. Gwinn Chief, Acquisition Services csscccacccccsnee Mildred D. Raitt Supervisor, Monographs Purchasing
AandmGiEE S/EXCHANGES? iexerererc.e%s: vale eieie aierajele 6 ale William B. Neff Supervisor, Serials PurchaSing. ..ccccscsece Lucien R. Rossignol Supervisor, Binding PurchaSing ccccccccccee James E. Lawson Chief Conservator, Book Conservation
ADOT ait OY, + wile-e:0.0\ s o:'s)e\\e: 6.0) ee ieis\e.0 we b.6 Slexe 6.6 sei" Johannes H. Hyltoft CONS SRV aOR Wie, a; 01.0\e)-010:6is-0)0eleceneseletee.sieielelelateterelereke Joyce Dreyfuss CONS SEV .a COT aise! 0 ere: 60. eine tele elielle%elerey sie eveic/efee ies Maria Nugent
RESSarenASSOCWaAEC: 4:0.6-410,.sier014 0:6 410, sete" ete) oes Wlers e.e6 Jean Chandler Smith

<<<Page: 270>>>

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service Director Executive Assistant
Associate Director for Program
Assistant Director for Exhibition Development Senior Exhibition Coordinator
Exhibition Coordinators
Associate Director for Administration Head Registrar
Budget Accountant
Budget Analyst
Registrar for Shipping
Associate Registrar
Associate Director for Canmuinications Publications Officer
Peggy A. Loar Irene Spector
Eileen Rose
Anne R. Gossett Martha Cappelletti Judith Bell
Lori Dempsey Elizabeth Driscoll Matou Goodwin Elizabeth Hennings Donald McClelland Betty Teller
Antonio Diez
Mary Jane Clark Allegra Wright Marie-Claire Jean vacant
Fredric Williams
Claire Fronville Andrea Stevens
Editor Nancy Eickel Head Education Coordinator Marjorie Share Education Coordinator vacant Public Information Officer Ronald Geatz Head of Scheduling Vera Hyatt PUBLIC SERVICE NSSAS CAN TOCCKOCAILY ai ou.saig aoe e nee ee oes deee Ralph Rinzler AGMINASECAbAVE: Ot PiCOMccanecc as ccrecmumte wo sewee Andrew McCoy OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION DASE Oe Pare ee ce th chara uate ated te cee RACE ie 2 oe he Ann Bay
eeee eo ee ee ee ee eo eo oo eo Oe
Coordinator for Special Education WY CCI BCMCOM otec oiets asus odes ale tenable ao ese oe eres Assistant Intern Coordinator Administrative Assistant Program Assistant Secretary
eoceeceoce eee ee eee oe
eoeecee oes eee ees ee eo ee oe
oeeeese ees eo ee oe oe eo oe eee eee
eee eee eee ee eee ee oe eee oe eee eee eo ee
Alan R. Gartenhaus Thomas E. Lowderbaugh Janice Majewski Dorothy MacEoin Vacant
Mary Williams
Evelyn Reese
Audrey Moore

<<<Page: 271>>>

DR CCEOL Kisieree occieieterscrcleieseocls 6 ols succes waebeterusencel: Depucy DIGECCOE! cscs secs secs sce ctevesss Richard Kunin Festival’ DITECtOr sec ccc ccc. cece cas Diana Parker Senior EthnomusicologisSt ......eeeee+e-Thomas Vennum, Jr. BEHNOMUSTCOMOGISE ~ciiew ccs cs.0 6 0 0 es eee. Kazadi wa Mukuna Folkiionists) sticss occe sees conning cece tees s, RiictanMasta Conzale Marjorie Hunt Phyllis May Administrative Officer ...%cis<sss eseee-e Jewell Dulaney Festival Services Manager.......eee+eeeeBarbara Strickland Technical Production Specialist ....... Richard Derbyshire Program SpecialiSt ........eeseeeeeee2Arlene Liebenau DEOSVONGE” 2a came. se es tees een es cclomees Daphnessnt te Leworurn Media Technicians ..... puslchelcienersteleterer er eters Cal Southworth Peter Magoon Audio Visual Production Assistant ..... Guha Shankar SCGGEOCARY, tes seers o sileere oie seroleveretse seseces Kathryn Trillas
DIO GTO E . sictecs ters ocr svsusi'ere sate. sts vorewalauaneievsue steers Alvin Rosenfeld ASSisivanits DIREC OM serotisturiorre ot ststeuevenete ois Madeleine Jacobs EXCGUBIVeG™ OR PICERS siceinsvecia sts ciel seers oer Eileen Hall
Public Affairs Specialists:
Susan Bliss Kathryn Lindeman William G. Schulz Mary Combs David Maxfield Rachel Sears Johnnie Douthis Ingrid Mendelsohn Lilas Wiltshire Margaret Langral] Linda St.Thomas
DTIC COT Paperelicreroteneyeteuensietc eis (9's cos Wilton S. Dillon Associate DIiTeCEOES) © «60768808 Dorothy Richardson Carla M. Borden

<<<Page: 272>>>

Office of Telecommunications
Director We Ee A Lk saat el eles erehele eee twlevee Oielevers es NaAaZaLrec Cherkezian Assistant “Director. wccccccdscccsccccecessbaul Johnson Director of Special Projects ............Karen Loveland
Telecommunications Specialists .......
Production Coordinator .cccccccccccece
e.-Carolyn Hopewell Jean B. Quinnette eeeLawrence E. Kline
TV. -PrOGUCELON SPECIaliSt) seccscosscesceecreter R. C. Erikson
Motion Picture Production Specialist . Motion Picture Production Assistant Radio Production Specialists .........
Radio Production/Marketing Specialist Administrative Officer ..ccccccccccces
Director 3 Deputy Director. Financial Manager. Marketing Consultant Administrative Officer
University Press Division
Assistant Director and Managing Editor Senior Science Editor.
Editor, Special Projects
Acquisitions Editors
Production and Design Manager. Series Publications Supervisor Distribution Section Supervisor.
Direct Mail Book Division
Editor-in-Chief. Senior Editor.
Recordings Division Executive Producer
Associate Producer Aico i Editorial and Design Coordinator
...John W. Hiller e--Lee Cioffi eee.vesse E. Boggs John P. Meehan Ken Mason, Jr. »-eDenise E. Freeland e-eCharlotte Brown
Felix C. Lowe
Vincent L. MacDonnell
John R. Ouellette
. William KeltyDorothy Blaska
. Maureen R. Jacoby
Edward F. Rivinus
Martin WilliamsDaniel H. Goodwin
Kathy Ann Kuhtz Lawrence J. Long Barbara J. Spann
Rosa E. Maness
Patricia Gallagher
. Alexis Doster III
James R. Taylor
. Margaret Robinson
Jane Sapp

<<<Page: 273>>>

Editor Don Moser Executive Editor Ralph Backlund Members, Board of Editors: Caroline Despard Nancy Seaman Jim Doherty Paul Trachtman Timothy Foote John P. Wiley, dr. Bennett Schiff Publisher Joseph J. Bonsignore Associate Publisher, Advertising Thomas H. Black Associate Publisher, Administration Carey 0. Randall Associate Publisher, Circulation Anne Keating Printing and Distribution E. Cherry Doyle Editorial Production Manager Ruth Ravenel Editor and Publisher Emeritus Edward K. Thompson
DANGE CIE OVD vere aconcvavchanenexcecle charcteroreuros eo emaieers. 6 Mary Grace Potter DEDULVEDIREGEOR: cAracrsrertncrevciercerieichetessic Carolyn Clampitt Manager, Information Resources
DTRVAIES NOM Mie toversascots eretecsncts Ghevelovevet ouecevel tere Maria Heasly Manager, Staff, Volunteer, and
Intern: Services UNI «.c0 acd. wesos «< Gretchen Jennings Manager, Public Inquiry Mail Unit ... Debora Fletcher Manager, Telephone Information
PYRO GRAINY Wes taye citantss avo. Sc's cfomoreueleteoi eronenetetet ere Katherine Neil]
Coordinator, Group Information Services Julia Daniel Robertson Coordinator, Information Outreach
PROOWAM Un ajsexcaregiste-cia.ets.« augur aiee ve eats Molly Sawyer Campbel] Manager, Central Services ........... Bee Gee Livsey

<<<Page: 274>>>

Assistant Secretary, sccisercccccceos cece cececsy VON Fo. Jameson Planning OGELC!? ji cic.ccejcyeiete. vice eee seeesouscis.ce e's. RODCrt 4+L.1harrell OMDUCSMAN ». sre, 6, cus:e,enareuss* elsperereeisieeviceevcecevice es oe) Chandra Py, ¢hesiman Special Assistant. ..csccocscccccscccccccseses Betty Beuck Derbyshire Contracting Officer, Contracts Office ....... Elbridge O. Hurlbut Director, Management Analysis Office ........ John G. Motheral Director, Office of Equal Opportunity ....... Will Douglas, Jr. Director, Office of Facilities Services ..... Tom L. Peyton, Jr.
Director, Office of Design and
CONSCHUCELON «cee cele ccc cewiesciceecisececces Pn ip. Resss
Director, Office of Plant Services ........ Michael R. League
Director, Office of Protection Services.... Robert B. Burke, Jr.
Keeper of the Castle ...cscccccceccevcsecese vames M. Goode Director, Office of Information Resource
Management) 2's esis o siejerere: sieieieieiev eer elessrereecpsiecei TRLCharGey He) LY tLe Director, Office of Personnel
Administration) siciisesssleieie vie cee eeseeeeese ee HOWArG LOY, Director, Office of Printing and
Photographic ServiceS .ccceccccscccscecseee vames H, Wallace, Jr. Director, Office of Programming and Budget... Jon E. YellinActing Director, Office of Programming
ANd BUA Et. sc o.6.0:c c.0.6 008 0.0.0 0) 016, 0/0), 03e erscelecieeereeuManry. ores ROGriguez Director, Office of Supply Services ......... Robert P. Perkins Director, Travel Services Office ......0.eee. Judith Petroski
Director, Office of Special Events........... Barbara Spraggins
Director, Office of Congressional Liaison.... Margaret C. Gaynor
PEREASURETI iar’ eisleseierelarsie/slelevs o's evexelelsieielexe chetsre ce eee ea ennn her even Assistant Treasurer, Office of Financial Management: & Planningis.:s‘«00's'seseevesesees00hn KR. Clarke (Appointed 4/1/85) Assistant Treasurer, Office of Accounting and Financial Services..........Allen S. Goff Assistant Director, Office of Accounting and Financial Services.....csccccesccceeeseeohireen L, Dodson Director, Office of Grants and Risk Management. aise cosccccceveseccesssceveeee Phil LipHe Babcock Director, Business Management Office...........dames J. Chmelik Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops...........eSamuel J. Greenberg Director, Mail Order Division.......+eeese+.eeDOnald E. Press Director, Product Licensing and Development..Josephine L. Rowan (Appointed 4/28/85) Food Services Administrator...sssesesesessesehOland W,. Banscher Parking sCOOrdinatOMes eves sieeesseess s ocieeescees Carolyn B.-Jones

<<<Page: 275>>>

DERPECEO RIT Sat ok ee Deputy Director ... Special Assistant. . Program otakhwes sos.
Secretaries . . e« e« e
Office of Acting Manager ... Office of
DISECEOr: sls se 6's Deputy Director . . .«
International Activities Specialist
International Liaison
John E. Reinhardt Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth Margaret P. Anderson
Edward W. Bastian
Cheryl A. Brauner
Anne E. Barbara Earline
Publications Exchange
Service and Protocol
Saundra
e e e e e e e
Quincentenary Planning
Coordinator <-. << '% DCECECEALY «6 6 3 29%
Di GE CEOTaetoresie so sis oe w ene cs Deputy Director s<.<.. e252 0% 0 Development Officers.......
Research Coordinator.......
eeoeceeeerseeeer eee eeeeeeee
Peret
Mary S. McCutcheon
H. Russell L. Williams
Thomas
Richard T. Conroy
Kennedy B. Schmertz Richard T. Conroy
Brian W. J. LeMay
Magali M. Carrera Lisa K. Minichiello
James McK. Symington E. Jeffrey Stann Donna B. Ari
Salvatore G. Cilella,
Diana D. Duncan Arthur W. Gardner Michael B.
eee eee eee eee eee ee eeees
Syphax
Susan J. Kalcik

<<<Page: 276>>>

Director sees ee sac nce nate Jacqueline Austin ASS Stan ea DiCOC COMA: c:anstecis e avecers Joseph Carper Program Coordinator for
the Women's Committee ..... Marta Doggett
Lecture and Seminar Program
PROGH al UMaNgGGI . ve acaccisicce: eis ieiece Charlene James-Duguid Senior Program COORGIMALORS cscs a tersterease euler Amy Kotkin
MaryBeth Mullen
Contributing Membership Program PrOGram MaNaGen _. ctcieicrsverekessts 000.4 Janet Fesler Program. ASSIS tant ~ orci: sjensis «e-0rere William Stewart Associates Travel Program
Program Manager, Domestic
Study 1OUNS:. x decease ca a cewins Prudence Clendenning Program Manager, Foreign SEUGY POUNS}) Sa sisi is cis aie es ase ots Barbara Tuceling
WAC CLOG «,s otesete ts eielsleie.e!oue%e.s s:0 6/00/66 s 0/6/s's 6/6) s ee eieieish eietes TAN EWW cs OOLINGET Associate Director for Programning.......eeeeeee--ebdmund H. Worthy, Jr. Assistant Director for Administration....eeeceeeee Michael W. Cassidy Assistant Director for, CourseSs.cccasesedeslecdseessbaul (J. Edelson Senior Program CoordinatorSeccccccccccsccesccceeveskoSiyn Beitler Moya B. King Melinda Y. Frye Marcus L. Overton PLOSEamM. COOrdina lorie... ss 06 s.0 0 sieyesisfersie« sieicieiesiAnna, Caraveli Penelope P. Dann Karen M. Gray Elizabeth H. McClung Susan S. Taub Katherine Wood AT: DLTCCEOT c/a reiercreieyeneis ies 6 0/60) 0 1101016 ee) eeie) eens srefetalereereloMaLoarec? Vier Lee Public Information Specialist/Editor.......eeeeeeeeKaren R. Sagstetter Assistant: Editors. ss0c ss sistee cies sieiee secs scene eees LOLence Winch PD UCTS tice sisistelensiers ersiersiavcceleielsisjeisiele sissies ecveeioeeees oCatnerine Jie, Cole Membership Coordinator. cccccccsecccccccecsccesseseseteanne 8B, George Assistant Membership Coordinator. ..sccseccseecceeeeeclaudette E. Moore Registration ManagericnicaccervccisiesievcecceeneseoscseceMarjorie Ls Walker Assistant Registration Manager...ccccccccesseeeeeee Xenia S. Arnelle Volunteer ‘Goordinarcor ic cc cielcteieiecic cise eciecis~eseesecoetLinor Ke Emlet

<<<Page: 277>>>

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.
Chairman, Of the Board... ....0sj0..e.e.sss Mrs... Eliiot.Richardsen PrCSTOON Cs acs sas eacise eels sccueseteesans’ RUM Graves Executive Assistant and a
Director of Special Projects........ Nancy Sullivan Director o£ Development... i.cessseseecs Wade. St. Claix Director of Supplier and
Organizational Relations............ Barbara B. Atkinson’ Director of Financial Operations....... Todd Palmquist Director of Parent Services
and PubLICACIONS ..6cssecceesseeessee ames Wendork Program Services Officer............... Jessie L. Lacy Regional Program Coordinator........... Mary Chor Subcontract and Data Retrieval
OGRICEE Mice sis cewies sce mecioweeace acre DOW Perron Resource Coordination Specialist..... .. Harry Noles Finance and Personnel Officer...... ....Donna M. Wagley Materials/Supplies Manager............. Calvin L. McFadden WELECE /POLEOTS ..6 wa cs oe cos tuises eance sss Gall Gerke
ees e owas Seeetcvssves’ ViLCLOrIa Heland
DLTECCOL acccccscescsecccscccvccccccesnsccs James H. Billington Deputy DITectoOr wecveccvcccccccccccssseseses Prosser Gifford Associate Director and Chairman, European Institute ....ececeeseeee samuel F. Wells, Jr. EGLEGT sciclerere ers 016 ciel soe © owisiaesele's siciceeclewieiee HCCOT Bracstrup Librarian .cccccccccvcccvcccscccccscvssveee Adenek V. David Publications Program Manager ..cecceceeeseeee Elizabeth Dixon Assistant Director for Development ........ George Liston Seay Executive Assistant to the Director ....... Mernie Wright Weathers Assistant Director for Administration ..... Jon Yellin Secretary, American Society and Politics
PYOTTAM SC wcice ves eciesieesecescessocoeosoereee Michael. J.ebacey Secretary, AstalProgram: Je<secsssicsessecees Roald A. Morse Acting Secretary, East European Program ... George W. Hoffman ‘Coordinator of History, Culture, and
Society and Assistant Director for
BEURMOWSNLEPS Meise cece we erliececeecseeseceeocs Ann Ce. Shettveld Senior Program Associate for International
Security Studies Program ....cscececeseees RObert Litwak Secretary, Kennan Institute ..s,cecccsceseee Herbert J. Ellison Secretary, Latin American Program ........Richard M. Morse Secretary, West European Program .......... Michael Haltzel

<<<Page: 278>>>

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts BRS UONn Sek Nee ee See eer Se ee orm”, Sees Roger L. Stevens, Chairman
Marta Istomin, Artistic Director
Jillian H. Poole, Director of Development
Clifton B. Jeter, Director of Finance Geraldine M. Otremba, Director of Planning Jack W. Kukuk, Director of Education
David S. Charlip, Controller
Alan C. Wasser, General Manager of Theaters
Richard H. Owens, Director of Theater Operations
Wayne Richardson, Administrative Assistant for Programming Richard W. Bauer, Deputy Director of Development
Barbara A. Hall, Associate Director of Development
Laura Longley, Director of Communications
John H. McAuliffe, Director of Marketing
Carl A. Matte, Manager of Sales
Edward G. Schessler, Director of Building Services
Chloe Aaron, Television Consultant Archie.iLs -Buttkines, Cultural Diversity :Atfiairs, Director
Kennedy Center Production, Inc. Adrienne Arsht Feldman, Chairman Roger L. Stevens, President
Henry Strong, Secretary-Treasurer
Board of Trustees Harold Burson William Cafritz Louisa Duemling Gerald A. Freed Monica L. Greenberg Robert McElwaine William G. McMurtrie Harry McPherson Robert I. Millonzi Herbert Salzman

<<<Page: 279>>>

National Park Service
The Kennedy Center building is secured partially maintained as a Presidential by the National Park Service.
Donald Hodel, Secretary, U.S. Department of the Interior
William Penn Mott, Jr., Director National Park Service
Manus J. Fish, Regional Director, National Capital Region
E.O. "Skip" Larson, General Manager, Kennedy Center
Annette G. Strauss, Chairman Thomas J. Mader, Executive Director
National Council
Alexandra Armstrong
Gayle Perkins Atkins
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Mabel Brandon
Anne H. Freeman
Donald Garretson
Russell Lindner
Dina Merrill
Michael X. Morrell Caroline Hunt Schoellkopf Carol Schwartz
Roger L. Stevens
Henry Strong
Joy Carter Sundlun
David Waller
Togo D. West, Jr.
and memorial

<<<Page: 280>>>

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT PRESHGEmit ac umcere eee cts vertis vane Vice: Presidents) ale oe.
DATS CCOL eet nel brea: dente are temo uineners SpecialrAssisittant™ 2) ire Executive Assistant . .... -.
OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR Deputy Director ~ c:., «95. 6 Chief, Education Department. . Iebiiobed, oS Uo cet «ht oon Chief of Exhibition Programs. . Chief Librarian Fee 3.4 4). Acting Chief, Photographic
WabOratOnyic seumee er ys te hehe s0 Head, Photographic Services. . Head, Extension Programs. ... Head, Art Information Service . Curator of Photographic
AT CHAV. CS ete are uie | eau ol er te meyare Chief, Department of Design
and Instalwatdon wy site 6) cs, = Managing Curator, Records
and wlOanSi metre easel oils t er eile REGUSEDAL sec. sei. eo, 6 “ete. Head, Department of Loans and
National Lending Service. .. Assistant to the Deputy
DireCtOTe .c sete e8 e! elmet, ee CURATORS Ghiek*Curator™. 3 « “Js: « 3 Senior Curator, Curator of
Prints and Drawings ..... Curator of French Prints. ...
Curator of Italian Drawings .
Curator of Contemporary Prints.
Curators of Northern Renaissance a Anh tT Siew Peperaeis’ sf eiemdas cel los
Curator of Southern Renaissance
aa .cP 4c, ey cas fat Meh otet fe) ws) Curator of Northern Baroque
Painting. 2 © % « «© 6 « © Curator of American Art... . Curator of ‘Sculpture. ....:. . Curator of Modern Painting. . . Curator of Twentieth-Century
ATCi Wer reeves te sbihe mre) Ween errs
Chief of Conservation... . «
John R. Stevenson Carlisle H. Humelsine
J. Carter Brown Robert Bowen Angela LoRe
John Wilmerding Danielle Rice Frances Smyth
D. Dodge Thompson J. M. Edelstein
Richard Amt
Ira A. Bartfield Ruth R. Perlin Elise V. H. Ferber Ruth Rowe Philbrick Gaillard F. Ravenel
Suzannah Fabing Mary E. Suzor
Stephanie Belt
Carol Kelley
Sydney J. Freedberg
Andrew C. Robison, H. Diane Russell Diane DeGrazia Ruth Fine
John O. Hand Martha A. Wolff
David A. Brown
Arthur K. Wheelock Nicolai Cikovsky Douglas Lewis Charles Stuckey
Jack Cowart Ross M. Merrill

<<<Page: 281>>>

OFFICE OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS External Affairs Officer. Special Events. Public Information. ... Corporate Relations . President's Office, Special Project, Patrons' Permanent Fund. Music .
e ° ©
° ° ° ° ° e e ° ° © °
° e ° e e e e e ° ° °
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY-—GENERAL Secretary-General Counsel . Associate Secretary-General
Counsel Assistant Secretary . Chief Archivist, Gallery
Archives.
e ° e ° ° ° e e e
e e ° e e e °
CENTER FOR ADVANCED STUDY Dean. Associate Dean.
e ° ° e e e ° e
° e ° . °
OFFICE OF THE TREASURER Treasurer . Assistant Treasurer .
OFFICE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR Administrator .. Assistant Administrator Personnel Officer . Building Superintendent Chief of Security .
e . °
Joseph J. Krakora Genevra Higginson (vacant)
A. C. Viebranz
Laura E. Smith George Manos
COUNSEL Philip C. Jessup, Jr.
Elizabeth A. Croog Kathryn K. Bartfield
Maygene Daniels
VISUAL ARTS Henry A. Millon Marianna S. Simpson
Robert C. Goetz Michael W. Levine
Joseph G. English George W. Riggs Michael B. Bloom Charles I. Suplee Francis E. Verrier

<<<Page: 282>>>

Appendix 8
Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1985
The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for their generous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inadvertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were received from donors’ who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian wishes to thank them for their generosity.
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM Donors of Financial Support
Allentown Pennsylvania Chapter of the International Plastic Modelers Society
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Alexander
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics
American Stock Exchange
Ball Aerospace Systems
Mr. William G. Bertain
Boeing Aerospace Company
Ms. Tracy Bouvier
CBS: Inc.
Clark-Winchcole Foundation
Mr. Bill ‘Fox
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Franey
Fred A. Nunnemaker Accountancy Corporation
General Electric Corporation
General Motors Acceptance Corporation
Mz. Ed George
Grumman Corporation
Mr. John Heyde, Jr.
Hilton Hotels Corporation
Jacqueline Cochran, Inc.
Mr. Armas E. Jutila
Mrs. Ruth Jutila
Mr. Ed Kovacvich
Mr. John Kovacvich
Ms. Betty Laizure
Mr. James Lauffenberger
Ms. Nancy Levine
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Low
Lucas & Harris Certified Public Accountants
Mr. and Mrs. Collis Mahan
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mahan
Martin Marietta Corporation
Melvin Simon & Associates, Inc.
Mrs. Helen J, McCray
Ms. Barbara McGill
Ms. Carrie McGill
Mr. John F. McGill
Mr. Byron McKean
Mr. Harry McWhorter
Mr. Will McWhorter
Mr. Edwin R. Miller
Mr. Frank Murray
Mr. Don Murrish
National Defense Transportation Association
National Science Foundation
National Space Club
Mr. Gerhard Neuman

<<<Page: 283>>>

New York University
Mr. Darrel H. Norberry Perkin-Elmer
Mr. Anthony Puglisi Senator Jennings Randolph Mr. Larry Renner
Mrs. Tina Trejo
TRW, Inc., Electronics & Defense Sector
The Government Research Corporation
Time-Life Books, Inc.
Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen
Mr. Mike Renner USAir Resco U.S. Air Force Advisory Board Rockwell International Corporation Secretariat
Rohr Industries, Inc. United Technologies
Mr. Allan M. Rose Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Walker Sam and Rie Bloomfield Mr. Ken Wallan Foundation, Inc. Mr. James E. Webb
Ms. Teresa Sand Dr. Bryan C. West, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Darold Schorlig Western Pacific L-C Corporation Ms. Flora Solarz Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Whiteley
Mr. and Mrs. William Tamo Mr. Michael Wilke
Donors to the Collection
American Kite Fliers Association (through Miller Makey, Sr.): Hamamatsu Kite.
Arianespace: model, Ariane 3 launch vehicle.
Augusta Group: collage of photos, The Ages of Rotorcraft in Italy, by Paolo Bellavita.
Mrs. John Ballenger: Charles Lindbergh commemorative medal, dated Sept. 20, 1927 and 2 menus from banquet honoring Lindbergh.
Mr. Bill Beavan: World War II emergency fishing kit.
Mr. Albert C. Beckwith: aircraft, Bede BD-5A/B and Honda automobile engine.
Bendix Corporation: World War II aircraft instruments.
Mrs. John D. Bick: 2 pilot badges.
Dr. Alan M. Bieber, Jr.: radio equipment.
Mr. Len Blake: 2 wire spoke wheels.
Col. Christopher Blaydon: electrically heated flying suit.
Boeing Aerospace Company: 19 paintings, Lunar Base Concept, Solar Power Satellite Lightshed, Solar Power Satellite Rectenna, Solar Accelerated Orbital Transfer Vehicle, Orbital Transfer Vehicle with Geostationary Platform, Orbital Transfer Vehicle with Communications Satellite, Aero Assisted Orbital Transfer Vehicle--NASA Version, Aero Assisted Orbital Transfer Vehicle--Air Force Version, Initial Space Station, Space Station Module Cutaway, Space Station Greenhouse, Space Operations Center, Space Station Hangar, Air Launched Sortie Vehicle Atop a /47, Air Launched Sortie Vehicle Separating from 74/7, Heavy-Lift Launch Vehicle, Unmanned Launch Vehicle, and Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle, by John J. Olson.
Boeing Vertol Company:
Mr. Robert S. Boyd: World War I.
Brevard County Board of Education: U.S. flag flown aboard the Freedom 7 spacecraft with Alan B. Shepard.
Cessna Aircraft Company: radar set remote control, radar set mixer amplifier, radar set indicator, 2 radar set power supplies, 4 radar set RF tuners, and VHF gang alignment fixture.
painting, The Country Builder, by Wilson McLean. German World War I machine gun and equipment from

<<<Page: 284>>>

Mr. Norman K. Chipps: radio receiver, spare parts kit, Bendix, radio compass, altimeter, gun mount, and gunsight.
Mr. Mark Clark: painting, Lotsa Luck, by Mark Clark.
Mr. Carl B. Cobb: Sputnik model music box.
Colspan Environmental Systems: 2 sounding rockets.
Mr. Michael Collins (through Michael Collins Associates): personal items from the Gemini 10 and Apollo missions.
Ms. Carol E. Cronin: pilot's badge.
Curtiss-Wright Flight Systems Inc.: propeller and propeller control power unit.
Mr. John Davidson: print, Deploying to Kingsley, by William Phillips.
Mr. Edward P. Davis: signal light.
Dow Chemical Company: aircraft, Windecker Eagle I.
Mr. Rowland Emett: drawing, Study for the SS Pussiewillow II, by Rowland Emett.
Mr. Gudmundur Erro: painting, Apollo 5, by Gudmundur Erro.
Federal Aviation Administration: engine, Turbojet J-69-T 25A.
Mr. Paul E. Garber: pilot badge, 3 medals, and a brass cartridge case.
Honorable E. J. (Jake) Garn: 2 STS 51-D flight patches and 2 Senator Jake Garn flight patches.
Mr. Frank Garove: radio transmitter and receiver.
Mr. David Gerrold: "Tribbles” from the Star Trek television program.
Mr. R. T. Godden: plastic vial.
Grid Systems Corporation: grid compass computer.
Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation: Goddard rocket and engine.
Dr. Emmitt E. Hancock: 1 pair high-top service shoes, World War II.
Mr John J. Hanson: model airplane engine.
Mr. William T. Hardaker: 2 flying jackets, flying suit, flying gloves, and goggles.
Mr. James E. Hardnock: navigation clock.
Mr. John Hartman: radio telegraph transmitter.
Mrs. Ronald Hemphill: aircraft alignment indicator.
Mr. Clifford W. Henderson Family Trust: Bendix trophy.
Honeywell Inc.: ring laser gyro inertial reference unit.
Mr. Fred P. Hueber: summer flying suit.
Japan Air Lines: model aircraft, Boeing 747 LR.
Mr. Frederick Jensen: coil set and aircraft radio receiver.
Johns Hopkins University, Applied Physics Laboratory: satellite.
Mr. Thomas Jones: painting, VSFl Squadron, A-4 Skyhawks, by Thomas Jones.
Mr. G. Stanley Joslin: poster used as a World War II training aid.
Ms. Mary Juhasz: airship ladder.
Mr. Art Kingston: U.S. Air Force aircrew cap.
Mr. Preston Kirk: early U.S. aircraft instruments.
Mr. Siegfield Knoll: propeller pitch indicator instrument.
Mr. Craig Kodera: painting, Good Afternoon Phoenix (Super 80), by Craig Kodera.
Mr. Arnold Kolb: summer flying helmet.
Mr. I.A. Kurzman: World War II Japanese propaganda leaflets.
Mr. Ronald E. Lewis: aircraft model, Convair 880.
Mr. Lefferts Mabie Jr.: aircraft, Piper J-2 Cub.
Ms. April May: weaving, Veil Nebula, by April May.
Ms. Imogene McCausland: 5 paintings, Lunar Basalt #4-Apollo 15, Lunar Basalt #5-Apollo 17, Anorthosite, Lunar Basalt #9, and Lunar Basalt #10, by Imogene McCausland.

<<<Page: 285>>>

Mr. Phillip McCoy: Japanese aircraft instruments.
Mr. Samuel E. McIntosh: World War II aircraft radio equipment.
Maj. Paul E. McVickar: 2 radio receivers and omniscope.
Mrs. Allen H. Meyers: altimeter, goggles, and helmet.
Mr. Robert Millstone: propeller.
Monterey Park Police Dept.: aircraft, American Aerolights Double Eagle.
Mr. Greg Mort: painting, Portrait of Christian Huygens, by Greg Mort.
Mr. Kenneth M. Murray: Polish Air Force badges, circa 1920,
Mr. Atsundo Nagao: photographs of Charles and Anne Lindbergh and a Japanese watercolor of Lindbergh's “Sirius”.
National Aeronautics Associaton: MacKay Trophy.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Ames Research Center: Mars penetratar droptest.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Goddard Space Flight Center: model landsat multi-spectral scanner.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Johnson Space Center: 2 pocket calculators, unitized electric power circuit board, liquid cooling garment, abort electronics assembly, left glove, right glove, 2 television cameras, camera control unit, Royal Doulton plate with Discovery 41-D mission logo, and transfer paper for plate signed by the mission crew members.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Langley Research Center: VGH recorder and VG recorder.
National Science Foundation: paper airplane hand-folded by Senator Jake Garn.
Mr. Raymond Nelson: air mail container.
O'Neal & Prelle Advertising: model of Leonardo da Vinci's one-man flying machine,
Mr. John J. Olson: 2 paintings, Early Space Shuttle Concept and Lunar Scene, by John J. Olson. ;
Mr. Bill Palmer: Montgolfier balloon pin.
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: flying clothing.
Mr. Arthur B. Perry and Naodi Perry: painting, 10lst Air Refueling Wing, Bangor, Maine, by Naima Rauam.
Ms. Marguerite Pinkerton: 2 letters from Charles Lindbergh to Richard Kuyl.
Don F, Pratt Museum, (through Charles Cureton): German World War II electrically heated winter flying suit.
Mr. Larry and Mrs. Jamie Pye: diorama with Douglas model aircraft.
Mr. Bob Resley: painting, Mustery S, by Bob Resley.
Mr. George Rhetts: identification tag.
Rockwell International: tires from STS-1 Space Shuttle.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Rogers: flying suit worn by Gen. Chuck Yeager.
M. Sgt. Russell E. Sackreiter, USAF (Ret.): 1 pair high-top service shoes and U.S. Air Force khaki shorts, World War II.
Mr. John Safer: National Air and Space Museum Trophy.
Maj. Francis N. Satterlee, USAF (Ret.): World War II GI service shoes.
Mr. William B. Saunders: 2 heavy gauge main aircraft wheels.
Mr. Fred Scarf: 5 plasma ware instruments.
Mr. Joseph A. Sirkis: civilian flying goggles.
M. Sgt. Victor H. Smith, USAF (Ret.): 1 pair high-top service shoes, World War II.
Mr. Richard K. Smith: first-day issue philatelic cover commemorating Alfred Verville.

<<<Page: 286>>>

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory: 2 antennas.
Ms. Rosemary Soubiran: fabric from a Lafayette Escadrille aircraft.
Maj. Merle D. Spence, USAF (Ret.): aircraft parts and instruments.
Mr. Vincent R. Sprouls: medal.
Ms. Wendy Stehling: painting, Afterglow, by Naima Rauam.
Mr. Marty Steiner: tokens from Junkers Aircraft Factory.
Ms. Monica Steinhoff: bust of Werner von Braun by Monica Steinhoff.
Mr. James L. Sunstein: World War II Japanese aircraft instruments.
Mr. C. G. Sweeting: air gunner sleeve insignia.
Mr. Bob Tabler: 2 radio receivers, radio indicator, radar receiver indicator, and radio inverter.
U.S. Air Force, Wright Patterson: 6-cylinder aircraft engine.
U.S. Army (through the Maryland National Guard): Bell UH-1M Huey helicopter. ;
U.S. Army, Fort Campbell: aircraft engine, Pratt and Whitney R-985.
U.S. Army, Natick Research and Development Center: 2 armor helmets, neck armor, and groin armor.
U.S. Army, Red Rivér Army Depot: 2 machine guns.
U.S. Marine Corps Museum: 2 Hartzell propellers, World War I balloon basket, 2 aircraft drones, and drone control equipment.
Mr. Mark Waki: painting, Portrait of a DC-3, by Mark Waki.
Ms. Wilma Wethington: painting, Threatening Weather, But the Mail Must Go Through, by Wilma Wethington.
Col. Byron E. White, USAF (Ret.): navigational watch.
Mr. Gordon White: triade vacuum tube.
Capt. Carman Woodley, USAF: Soviet SA-2 missile.
Mr. W. Woolner: recognition slide projector.
Donors to the Records Management Division
Mr. David Baron: 56 photographs of Royal Navy and Israeli War of Independence.
Mr. Frederick Beatley: 27 postcards of German Airship LZ-1l Graf Zeppelin and 19 photographs of German Dornier Aircraft.
Mr. Warren Bodie: 85 prints and negatives of miscellaneous aircraft.
Mr. Walter J. Boyne: 977 black and white and color photographs and negatives of the McDonnell Douglas F-4, and 622 photographs of the Boeing B-52, with supporting documentation.
Mr. Gary Brounstein: 344 prints of miscellaneous aircraft.
Mr. R. Burgess: 45 photographs of miscellaneous aircraft taken at Croydon Aerodrome.
Mr. Ira Chart (Northrop, Corporation): 3 color photographs, 12 black and white photographs, and a brochure on the F-20 Tigershark.
Ms Carol Cronin: one brochure, photograph, and pilots wings from Wings West Airlines.
Mr. Steve Detch: Northrop Alpha construction prints (1 cubic foot).
Mr. George Dillman: 12 photographs of B-26, including "Flakbait.”
Mrs. Gisela Enchelmayer: film, photographs, clippings, and personal papers of Willibald Seybelt.
Mr. David Farer: 85 photographs of Israeli War of Independence.
Mr. Allan Katzberg: publication on radiobiologic experiment in Discovery XVET :
Mr. Robert J. Lannen: 40 photographs of World War I airplanes.
U.S. Air Force: 453 Korean War color slides.
U.S. Air Force Museum: plans for the 1905 Wright Flyer III.

<<<Page: 287>>>

Donors of Financial Support
Dr. M. A. Aguire American Ornithologists' Union Dr. J. Lawrence Angel Anonymous Atlantic Richfield Foundation Leslie Ann Barfield Dr. Richard H. Benson Dr. and Mrs. Donald T. Bosch Dr. Alan H. Cheetham Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke Colonial: African Violet
Society Cousteau Society a Dr. Don R. Davis Bill Depenbrock William H. Donner Foundation Bernardo Dougherty Mrs. Mary Alice Dunham Earthwatch Foundation Exxon Corporation Mercedes S. Foster Gateway West Gesneriad Society Girl Scout Council of
the Nation's Capitol Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation Dr. Richard E. Grant GC. W.. Hart, Jr. Joe C. Hayes Marjorie C. Hayes Dr. Carole S. Hickman Dr. Robert Higgins Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Johnson Kaya Interiors Dr. Karl V. Krombein Catherine L. Lamb Luckett Gardening Club Edgar J. Maiz Mark Mamalakis Mars Foundation Dr. and Mrs. Wayne N. Mathis Dr. and Mrs. Don Michael John H. Miles, Jr. Mill Pond Press
CO p
National Capitol Area Chapter of American Gloxinia and Gesneriad Society
National Capitol Shell Club
National Geographic Society
New York Shell Club
Elis Olsson Memorial Foundation
Richard E. Petit
Center for Plant Conservation
Mr. and Mrs. Freeman G. Prior
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Reiff
Reston Garden Club
Mrs. Mary L. Ripley
Dr. Robert Robbins
Rock Foundation
Marie-Héléne Sachet
Walter E. Sage III
Scientific American
Dr. Stanwyn G. Shetler
Dr. Gordon B. Small, Jr.
Maria A. Solis
Elbridge and Mary Stuart Foundation
Mrs. Marion Butler Stuart
Sumner Gerard Foundation
United Nations Children's Fund
George L. Venable
Dr. and Mrs. Willard B. Walker
Dr. Willard B. Walker
Western Michigan Bone and Joint Surgeons, P. GC.
Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore
Dr. Austin B. Williams
John W. Winn
Mrs. Jean Davies Wright
Yale Club of Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 288>>>

Donors to tne National Collections INSTITUTIONAL
Aahas Univ., Sweden: 80 plants (365785, exchange).
Academia Sinica, China: 2 plants (362032); 2 wasps (365138, exchange).
Academy of Sciences, Czechoslovakia: 125 plants (364562).
Academy of Sciences, Poland: 1 plant (364622, exchange).
Academy of Sciences, U.S.S.R.: 21 assorted mammals (353638, exchange); 3 weevils (365570).
Adelaide, Univ. of, Australia: 35 marine algaes (363135, exchange) .
Agricultural Institute, China: 1 plant (360897).
Agriculture, U. S. Department of: 331 plants (359644, 361976, 361997, 363556, 363569, 365674); 5,077 insects (365544, 365564, 367078, 367079).
Alabama, Univ. of: Herbarium: 5 plants (364648).
Alberta, Univ. of, Canada: 200 plants (359704, exchange).
American Museum of Natural History: 2 fishes (357278); 4 birds (358562); 1 bird skin (364060, exchange); 5 fossil mammal casts (361143, exchange); 3 plant bugs (363960, exchange).
American Univ.: 9 echinoderms (322436).
Aquatic Environments Limited, Canada: 2,945 crustaceans, 120 echinoderms (357661).
Arizona, Univ. of: 29 echinoderms (294745, 366449); 1 prea (362036); 510 plants (364627, exchange).
Assiut Univ., Egypt: 16 crustaceans (348560).
Auburn Univ.: 2 echinoderms (359814); Herbarium: 805 plants (363486) .
Australian Museum, Australia: 19 fishes (338537, 355082, 363843); 2 fishes (357227, exchange); 1 meteorite (359363, exchange); 24 worms (363796, 365396).
Balcones Researen Center: 2 fossil casts (361150); 22 fossil mammal casts (364372, exchange).
Baltimore National Aquarium: 1 dolphin (364864).
Baltimore Zoo: 1 ground squirrel (360567).
Barry A. Vittor and Associates: 149 worms (365996).
Bayer Staatssammlung fur Palaontologie U. Historiche Geologie, Germany: 4 fossil skull casts (361198, exchange).
Bereich Botanik und Aboretum Museum fur Naturkunda, Germany:
45 plant slides (347561, exchange).
Bermuda Biological Station, Bermuda: 821 crustaceans (325158, 346417, 351962, 352284); 16 echinoderms (352284, 364310); 1 fish (364310).
Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 6 plants (359659, exchange); 7 crustaceans (358541); 296 corals (346950, 361138, 361637); 5 fishes (356327, 361457, 362563, 362574, 363872, 365287, exchanges).
Bioligacas Marie del Piler Reyes Barragan, Mexico: 43 worms (361669).
Biologische Station Lunz, Australia: 24 sponges (359521).
Biosystematics Research Institute, Canada: 2 insects (365559).
Black Hills Institute of Geological Research: 6 fossils (359190).
Bochum, University of, Germany: 6 sponges (359519).
itd ioe) an

<<<Page: 289>>>

Boston Univ.: 113 corals (258822, 274378, 4 mollusks (353523).
Botanical Museum Herbarium, Denmark: 1 plant (359706, exchange).
Botanical Research Institute, South Africa: 507 plants (363557, 361886 , 362075, exchange); 9 photographs of plants (360884).
Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 329 plants (363206, 363596, exchanges).
Brigham Young Univ.: Monte L. Bean Life Science Museum: 230 plants (364634, exchange); 2 plants (361980).
British Columbia, Univ. of, Canada: 73 plants (361900, 363470).
British Museum (Natural History), England: 239 plants (359643, 359713, 364724, exchanges); 1 insect (361676, exchange); 2 fossils (361577, 362514, exchanges); 2 fossil casts (362798); 2 stylasterines (352304, exchange).
Calicut, Univ. of, India: 28 plants (363476).
Calcutta, Univ. of, India: 15 crustaceans (349043).
California Academy of Sciences: 4 plants (363512); 39 fishes (337116, 361466, 362539, 365329).
California, State of: Department of Fish and Game: 5 echinioderms (243747); Department of Food and Agriculture: 596 sap beetles (365554).
California Jungle Gardens: 3 caridean shrimps (361565).
California State Univ.: 32 echinoderms (324196).
California, Univ. of: 657 plants (359715, 360764, 364633, exchanges); 759 plants (360747, 360887); 6 crustaceans (362512); 5 echinoderms (318087); 4 insects (365561); 90 worms (363255); Scripps Institute of Oceanography: 1 crustacean (361125); 11 echinoderms (324261, 343249); 118 fishes (325036, exchange); 2 fishes (361480); 3,170 fossil slides (363248); 8 worms (336922, 366115).
Cambridge, Univ. of, England: 1 fossil cast (359451).
Canada Geological Survey, Canada: 1 mineral (361787); 6 fossils (363249).
Canberra Botanic Gardens, Australia: 71 plants (365817, exchange).
Canfield Fund: 28 minerals (363930, 362930, 362939, 363379, 363382, 363394, 363397, 363398).
Carnegie Museum of Natural History: 1 fossil wolf cast (362492, exchange).
Centre Orstom de Noumea, New Caledonia: 11 plants (350860).
Chamberlain Fund: 1 mineral (362899); See also Mineral Fund (362904).
Colegio de Postgraduados, Mexico: 1 plant (363499).
Colorado, Univ. of: Museum: 39 plants (361945, exchange).
Columbia, Univ. of: Lemont-Doherty Geological Observatory: 33 echinoderms (347716, 356470).
Comissao Executiva Do Plano Da Lavoura Cacaueira, Brazil: 9 insects (367030).
Commerce, U. S. Department of: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration: 42 crustaceans (306445); 20 holothurians (356495); 1,027 ascidians and asteroids (357890); 6 gorgonian (324686); 4 mollusks (364549); 1 fish (314432); 1 beaked whale (364880).
Commonwealth Institute of Biological Control, India: 100 armored scales (362850).
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organization, Australia: 3 slides of echinoderm (359450).

<<<Page: 290>>>

Connecticut, Univ. of: 192 plants (351227, 359700, 364576, exchanges); 16 plants (365767).
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas, Spain: 45 fishes (353917, exchange).
Conservatoire et Jardin Botaniques de Laville de Geneve, Switzerland: 28 plants (365664); 36 plants (364565, exchange).
Cornell Univ.: 110 corals (245674, 342628); 17 insects (366975); Liberty Hyde Bailey Hortorium Herbarium: 147 plants (362029, 363574, 363617, 363629, exchanges).
Crown Prince's Household, Japan: 1 fish (365311).
Cureton Mineral Company: 1 mineral (357572, exchange).
Dalhousie Univ., Canada: 34 insects (346014).
Dames and Moore: 15 crustaceans (352959, 356878).
Dauphin Island Sea Laboratory: 10 echinoderms (321867).
David Shannon Minerals: 2 minerals (361095).
Defense, U. S. Department of: Department of the Army: 156 carpet beetles and biting midges (365152, 365565, 365572); Department of the Navy: 92 echinoderms (248236, 359829, 363701); 16 echinoderms (248236, 359829); 16 echinoderms, 1 mollusk, 1 worm (363787); Marine Corps: 1 fossil tooth (366273).
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Zealand: 2 weevils (353993, exchange); 2 seed feeding bugs (363962).
Desert Botanical Garden: 130 agaves (360754).
Discovery Bay Marine Laboratory, Jamaica: 1 echinoderm (336917); 2 crustaceans (359184).
Duke Univ. Herbarium: 118 plants (363599, exchange); 3 plants (365673, 365678); Marine Laboratory: 17 anemones (242630); 2 corals (247810); 2 holothurians (295023); 3 asteroids (361822).
Bast African Herbarium, East Africa: 1 plant (360755, exchange).
Empresa Pernambucana de Pesquisa, Brazil: 1 plant: (364743).
Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologicas, Mexico: 49 plants (359702, exchange).
Estacion Biologica Charles Darwin, Ecuador: 11 echinoderms (313183).
EWHA Woman's Univ., Korea: 1 plant (363143).
Field Museum of Natural History: 212 plants (361985, 363138, 364628, exchanges); 159 plants (360867, 361985, 363138, 363201, 364628, 365697 ); 40 crustaceans (363128); 103 fishes (285331, 362538, exchanges); 2 fossil casts (361151, 363690, exchanges).
Florida Atlantic Univ.: 15 plants (362037).
Florida, State of: Department of Agriculture: 7 dragonflies (365507, exchange); Department of Environmental Regulation: 1 worm (366098); Department of Natural Resources: 16 ‘echinoderms (364837); 7 worms and 1 worm slide (362671, 365345, 366089).
Florida, Univ. of: 51 echinoderms and 4 slides (231171, 345754, 348470); 16 crustaceans (362477); Florida State Museum: 3 crustaceans (361602); Vascular Plant Herbarium: 14 plants (360894, 363561, 363562).
Forest Herbarium, Thailand: 54 plants (364736, exchange).
Forschungsinstitut Senckenberg, Germany: 7 insects (365539, exchange).
Fundacao Universidade Brasilia, Brazil: 862 plants (361891).
Georgia Conservancy: 1 crustacean (360711).
Georgia Southern College Herbarium: 1 plant (363500).
Georgia, Univ. of: 2 ferns (363203).

<<<Page: 291>>>

Goteborg, Univ. of, Sweden: 83 plants (359710, exchange); 14 plants (360906, 361934).
Grice Marine Biological Laboratory: 11 crayfishes (363712).
Guam, Univ. of, Guam: 26 fishes, 21 echinoderms, 3 worms (359474); Marine Laboratory: 51 echinoderms (325059, 328174).
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory: 28 echinoderms (231457, 239394); 31 crustaceans (361398, 362478, 363123); Museum: 242 crustaceans, 2 echinoderms, 3 worms (361564).
Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc.: 21 crustaceans (362196).
Harvard Univ.: Arnold Aboretum: 1 plant (365682); Gray Herbarium: 79 plants (363205, 364630); 1,968 plants (359697, 360908, 353205, 363224, 364630, 364632, 363588, exchanges); Museum of Comparative Zoology: 24 echinoderms (356570, 356676, exchanges); 2 spiders (362839); 3 fishes (365309): 263 worms (365521).
Haskins Laboratories: 19 echinoderms (260769).
Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology: 2,227 fishes (363838).
Hawaii, Univ. of: 177 flies (365575).
Helsinki, Univ. of, Finland: Herbarium: 25 plants (361890).
Herbario Albert Castellanos, Brazil: 23 plants (363220); 23 plants (363475, exchange).
Herbario Centro de Pesquisas de Caucau, Brazil: 310 plants (360909, 362026, 364661).
Herbario da Reserva Ecologia do Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatista, Brazil: 51 plants (361882).
Herbario Dr. Victor Manuel Ovalles, Venezuela: 87 plants (360921): 125 plants (364709, exchange).
Herbario Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 500 plants (363545).
Herbario Nacional de Mexico, Mexico: 11 plants (361963).
Herbario Universitario, Venezuela: 129 plants (360842, 363627,
363664).
Herbier National du Cameroun, Cameroun: 5 plants (363644).
Herbarium Bradeanum, Brazil: 1 plant (365836).
Hillman Fund: 12 minerals (358364).
Hokkaido Univ. of, Japan: 26 fishes (357272); 5 insescts (365566).
Hopkins Marine Station: 9 algaes (363471).
Houston, Univ. of: 95 crustaceans and 102 crustacean slides (362191).
Howard Minerals: 11 minerals (359932, excnange).
Hubbs Marine Research Institute: 10 bird skirts (364039).
Humboldt State Univ.: 1 plant (363487).
Hungarian Natural History Museum, Hungary: 7 brachiopods (361570, exchange).
Huntsman Marine Laboratory, Canada: 2 fishes (361481).
Ichthyological Laboratory, China: 6 fishes (337624, exchange).
Illinois, State of: Natural History Survey Division: 21 crustaceans (360381).
Indian Cancer Research Centre, India: 3 anemones (253015).
Indian River Coastal Zone Study Reference Museum: 89 crustaceans (358540, 363945); 9 corals (356952); 12 asteroids (365199).
Institut D'Estudis Ilerdencs de la Diputacio Provincial de Lleida, Spain: 1 plant (361982).
Institut fur Allgemeine Biologie der Universitate Wein, Austria: 110 crustaceans (360068, exchange).
Institut fur Allemeine Botanik, Germany: 1 plant (363620).

<<<Page: 292>>>

Institut fur Botanik und Botanischer Garten der Universitat, Austria: 12 plants (360725, exchange); 22 plants (360725, 364649).
Institute for Development of Pacific Natural Resources, Japan: 24 octocorals (344114).
Institute of Biology, Roumania: 75 crustaceans (361561).
Institute of Marine Sciences, Trinidad and Tabago: 2 crustaceans (361015).
Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, England: 2 fishes (361479).
Institute of Parasitic Diseases, China: 4 insects (363974).
Institute for Systematic Botany, The Netherlands: 45 plants
(361935, 364567, 364650); 267 plants (361905, 361935, 361943, 363553, 364567, 364650, exchanges).
Instituto Botanico, Venezuela: 1,172 plants (363559, 364664).
Instituto Botanico A. J. Cavanilles, Spain: 57 plants (359699).
Instituto de Botanica Darvinion, Argentina: Herbarium: 4 plants (363575).
Instituto De Investigaciones Oceanologicas, Chile: 2 crustaceans (362677) .
Instituto di Ricerche sulla Pesca Marittima, Italy: 1 crustacean (363023 ) ‘
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas de Amazonia, Brazil: 13 plants (362034); 4 fishes (361461, exchange); 5 fishes (366203).
Instituto Oceanografico Universidad de Oriente, Venezuela: 13 echinoderms (361700, exchange).
Instituto Veterinario de Investigaciones, Peru: 335 fishes (365243, exchange).
Interior, U. S. Department of: Bureau of Land Management: 6,600 echinoderms (339841, 359235); 94 fishes (348038); 100 crustaceans (356512); 9 worms (364005); Fish and Wildlife Service: 5,650 echinoderms (240182, 254880, 261291, 273551); 159 amphibian and reptiles, 2 snakes (358012, 358027, 362157, 362158, 362721); 88 birds (360440, 362354); 18 manatees, 1 whale (360565); 17 worms (362760 , 365637); 32 insects (367058); Geological Survey: 2 plants (360904); 21 echinoderms (359477, 360700); 7 minerals (356833, 361741, 362908, 362969); 87 basalts, quartzs, volcanic ashes and 29 thin sections (361783, 364224, 364226); 1 fish (361444); 14 fossil thin sections, 50 sharks teeth, 1,079 fossil slides, 883 fossils (359424, 361277, 361569, 361859, 361881, 362223, 362282, 362311, 362448, 362500, 362638, 362639, 363717, 365726, 363727, 363853, 364003, 364528, 364530, 364777, 364988, 365022,365853, 366281, 366298).
INVEMAR, Columbia S.A.: 16 echinoderms (334541, 356623).
Jacksonville, Univ. of : 3 crayfishes (360686).
James Cook Univ. of Nortn Queensland, Australia: 12 marine algaes (363134, exchange).
Jardin Botanico, Spain: 2 photographs of plants (361937).
Jardin Botanico de Maracaibo, Venezuela: 693 plants (361991, 362013).
Jardin Botanico de Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 82 plants (360893, 363199, 363213, 363216, 364675).
Jardin Botanico Nacional, Dominican Republic: 577 plants (361902, 363584, 364624, exchanges); 24 plants (364624, 364642).
Jardin Botanique National de Belgique, Belgium: 1 plant (364585).
Jewel Tunnel Imports: 1 mineral (364284).
Juniata College: 59 crustaceans (362494).
tr (oa) \o

<<<Page: 293>>>

Justus Liebig Univ., Germany: 14 plants (365684).
Kagoshima Univ., Japan: 1 crustacean (362487).
Kansas, Univ. of: 6 bird skeletons (358590, exchange); 7 fishes (360171); 71 plants (361889).
Karl-Franzens-Universitat GRAZ, Austria: 4 lichens (364731).
Kent State Univ.: -1 crab (363694).
Kumamoto Univ., Japan: 65 crustaceans (361223).
Kuwait, Univ. of, Kuwait: 4 fishes (363864, exchange).
Kyoto Univ., Japan: 10 octocorals (209648).
Laboratorium voor Nematologie, The Netherlands: 3 nematode slides (360944).
Landesanstalt fur Gawasserkunde und Gwassserschut Nordrhein Westfalen, West Germany: 5 crustaceans (364376).
Ljubljana, Univ. of, Yogoslavia: 7 crustaceans (353169).
Longwood Gardens: 2 plants (363581, 364638).
Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History: 4 fishes (324961, 361436, exchanges); 85 plants (362020, 363578).
Louisville, Univ. of: 397 crustaceans (348440, 361813).
Louisiana State Univ.: College of Arts and Sciences: 4 echinoderms (320516, 356471); Medical Center: 6 protozoan slides (356471); School of Forestry and Wildlife Management: 10 crustaceans (363055).
Lyman House Museum: 2 basalts (364225).
Lyndon State College: 32 ferns (361940).
Malaya, Univ. of, Malaya: 202 echinoderms (307145).
Marie Selby Botanical Gardens: 16 plants (360917, 363552, 363645, exchanges); 1 plant (360917).
Marine Animal Productions: Pygmy Sperm Whale (360566).
Marine Research Foundation: 22 echinoderms (363129).
Maryland, Univ. of: 1 coral (352332); 5 vials, 9 crustaceans (361615 , 364500).
McDaniel Photography: 1 coral (358060).
McGill Univ. Redpath Museum, Canada: 2 echinoderms (356901).
McNeese State Univ.: 3 echinoderms (347039).
Memorial Univ. of Newfoundland, Canada: 24 ophiuroids and asteroids (350501):
Miami Univ.: 22 plants (360918, 364679, 364703).
Miami, Univ.: Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science: 623 echinoderms (359185, 336863, 323036, 354501, 359889); 26 fishes (219416, 256534); 1 manatee (364883).
Michigan, Univ. of: Herbarium: 42 plants 360746, 363133, 363490, 363650, 365831); Museum of Zoology: 39 fishes (337428, 361470, 362575); 20 bats (357358).
Micronesia, Dept. of Resources & Development, Caroline Islands: 17 fishes (363851).
Mid-Pacific Marine Lab., Marshall Islands: 21 echinoderms (326939).
Milwaukee Public Museum: 2 plants (360832).
Mineral Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 63 minerals (355966, 358439, 360028, 361784, 362904, 362905, 363395, 363396, 364231, 364232, 364254).
Ministere de L'Education Nationale, France: 50 crustaceans (358931).
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, Fiji: 20 pumices (359310).

<<<Page: 294>>>

Missouri Botanical Garden Herbarium: 1,401 plants (360899, 360911, 361950, 361977, 363183, 363187, 363195, 363502, 363621, 364569, 364637, 364685, 365749, 365652, 365653, 365654, 365655, 365656); 652 plants ( 361950, 363601, 364587, 364626, 365657, 3656583, exchanges).
Montana , Univ. of: 12 plants (364561).
Montana State Univ.: 8 sponges (348505).
Morton Aboretum: 19 plants (363539).
Moscow Lomonosov State Univ., U.S.S.R.: Zoological Museum: 1 mammal (360539).
Moss Landing Marine Laboratories: 248 coelenterates and 50 echinoderms (332157).
Mote Marine Laboratory: 3 sponges (361638); 185 worms (362446, 364195, 365184).
Museo Argentina de Ciencias Naturales "Bernardino Rivadavia", Argentina: 4 plants (360836).
Museo Civico di Storia Naturale, Italy: 7 fishes (363862, exchange).
Museo Nacional de Historia Natural, Chile: 47 insects (365134, exchange).
Museu Anchieta, Brazil: 6 fishes (363879, exchange).
Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 276 plants and 9 bamboos (360861, 362917, 363171, 363511, 365681); 40 plants (364727, exchange).
Museu de Ciencias da Pucrgs, Brazil: 62 fishes (363880, exchange).
Museu Nacional, Brazil: 4 fishes (361464, exchange).
Museu Paraense Goeldi Herbario, Brazil: 83 phanerogams (363537).
Museum National D'Histoire Naturelle, France: 247 plants (359685, 360889, 363587, exchanges); 12 fishes (297117, 363866, exchanges); 2 fishes (362560, 365298); 2 mollusks (360973); 10 fossil mammal casts (359763, exchange).
Museum of Natural History, Bulgaria: 58 fishes (360166, exchange).
Mystic Marinelife Aquarium: hooded seal (364863).
Nacional de Costa Rica Herbario: Museo Nacional, Costa Rica: 1 plant (364735).
Natal, Univ. of, South Africa: 7 phanerogams (363583).
National Aeronautics and Space Administration: 561 minerals (363897).
National History Institute: National Science Museum, Japan: cast of an aghorophus skull (364759, exchange).
National Institute of Amazonian Research, Brazil: 17 fishes (361462, exchange).
National Museum of Natural Sciences, Canada: 373 plants (361885, 361883, exchanges).
National Museum of New Zealand, New Zealand: 11 echinoderms (323845, 356739); 3 fishes (365244); 2 fossil penguins (363732).
National Museum of Victoria, Australia: 4 sponge fragments (361636); cast of a dinosaurs maxilla (361258).
National Science Foundation: 42 trilobites (364825).
National Science Museum, Japan: 50 plants (360766, exchange); cast of a fossil porpoise skull and 6 fossil mammal casts (365360, 366326, exchanges).
National Taiwan Univ., China: 1 fish (361441).
National Univ. of Singapore, Singapore: 7 crustaceans (360664).
New England Aquarium: 10 marine mammals (360552).
New Hebrides Condominium Geological Survey, New Hebrides: 6 echinoderms (315765).
New Mexico State Univ.: 4 plants (363174, 364617); 13 ants (3655569)

<<<Page: 295>>>

New York Botanical Garden Herbarium: 3,507 plants (359684, 361996, 363568, 364596, exchanges); 446 plants (363568, 364596, 361996, 362074, 363178, 364694).
New York, State of: Office of Public Health: 26 crustaceans (363825).
New York State Univ.: Harpur College: 1 ‘sponge (198013); State Museum: 100 corals (201007, exchange); 4 corals (318116).
New Zealand Geological Survey, New Zealand: 11 fossil slides (360722).
New Zealand Oceanographic Institute, New Zealand: 50 hard corals (248155).
North Carolina, State of: Department of Natural Resources: 1 fish (365274); State Museum: 33 fishes (362579); bird trunk (364017). North Carolina, Univ. of: 48 echinoderms (332562, 338788); 3 fishes
(361453); 2,056 fishes (365327, exchange).
North Carolina State Univ.: School of Physical and Mathematical Sciences: 1 echinoderm (360319).
Northeast Louisiana Univ. Herbarium: 172 plants (360882).
Northern Kentucky Univ.: 1 plant (361989).
Northern Virginia Mineral Club: 1 mineral (362935).
Office De La Recherche Scientifique Et Technique Outre-mer, French Guiana: 169 phanerogams (362021).
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre Mer Herbaria, Bolivia: 54 phanerogams (363525).
Ohio, Univ. of: 1,061 fossils (364001).
Ohio State Univ.: 275 plants (363538, exchange); Herbarium: 1 plant (363580); 4 sap beetles (365164).
Oil Pollution Research Unit, England: 9 crustaceans (360042).
Oklahoma, Univ. of: 70 sponges, 2 soft corals (335984, 344052, 349441, 359830, 364965); Robert Bebb Herbarium: 1 plant (362080).
Old Dominion Univ.: 1 sponge, 1 stylasterid, (364495); 1 worm (366144).
Oregon, Univ. of: 7 fossil fishes (363718); Institute of Marine Biology: 5 octocorals (355185); 5 crustaceans (362475); School of Oceanography: 11 asteroids (354129).
Oregon State Univ.: 1 fish (362623); Herbarium: 1 plant (364663).
Osborn Laboratories of Marine Sciences: 1 protozoan slide (357659).
Oslo, Univ. of, Norway: 5 worms (361628, exchange).
Osmania Univ., India: 13 insects (362836).
.Otago, Univ. of, New Zealand: 1 protozoan slide (360120).
Pacific Bio-Marine Supply Company: 1 sponge (268291).
Palomar College: 3 echinoderms (307637).
Pennsylvania, Univ. of: 20 echinoderms (335248).
Pennsylvania State Univ.: School of Forest Resources: 12 fishes (361531, 365300, exchanges).
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences: 5 fishes (356333, 363855, exchanges); 2 fishes (359030); 64 crustaceans (355995); 1 bird skin (362396, exchange).
Pontificia Universidad Catolica del Ecuador, Ecuador: 107 plants 359626, 363189, 363202).
Princeton, Univ. of: 3 casts of fossil reptile remains (355599,
jeto Radambrasil Herbario, Brazil: 32 phanerogams (363536).

<<<Page: 296>>>

Provincetown Center for Coastal Studies: 1 bottlenose dolphin (364872).
Publications and Information Directorate, CSIR, India: 1 plant (363153).
Puerto Rico, Department of Natural Resources: 191 ferns (363555, exchange); 1 plant (360896).
Puerto Rico, Univ. of: 5 anemones and phoronids (244778); 199 marine algaes (360901, 363136).
Purdue Univ.: 260 small mammals (360569).
Queensland Museum, Australia: 4 fishes (365261).
QLM Laboratories, Inc.: holothurians (307487).
Rama de Botanica: Herbario-Hortorium, Mexico: 1 plant (363505).
Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden: 53 phanerogams (361895, exchange).
Rhodes Univ.: J.L.B. Smith Institute of Ichthyology, South Africa: 8 fishes (332330, 363885, 363905); 3 fishes (365305, exchange).
Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Histoire, The Netherlands: 4 sea anemones (326667 );47 sawflies (364515, exchange).
Rocky Mountain Herbarium: 13 plants (362018); 52 plants (362018, exchange).
Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 82 minerals (359309, 359330, 360031, 361039, 361067, 361715, 361726, 361779, 361803, 362884, 362948, 362963, 362980, 363349, 363380, 363393, 363409, 365914); 358364 (See also Hillman Fund).
Roland W. Brown Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 31 ambers containing fossil insects and plant parts (359163); a cycadeoid trunk (364987); 41 fossil wood (364755).
Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia: 130 misc. plants (363598, 364671, exchanges).
Royal Botanic Gardens, England: 378 plants (360751, 363208, 363570, 363630, exchanges); 17 plants (360761, 362078).
Royal Botanic Garden, Scotland: 11 photographs of plants and 7 plants (360753, 360762, 360892).
Royal Botanic Gardens: National Herbariuim, Sri Lanka: 6 bamboos (361992).
Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute, The Netherlands: pumices (362894).
Royal Ontario Museum, Canada: 5 fishes (362576, 365241, exchanges); 25 caddisflies (367062).
Ryksherbarium, The Netherlands: 238 plants (363196, exchange).
Ryukyus, Univ. of, Japan: 18 caridean shrimps (362294); 6 insects (362814).
San Carlos, Univ. of, Philippines: 9 sponges 343472).
San Diego Natural History Museum: 2 bird skeletons (358570, exchange); 33 caddisflies and 3 fishflies (365537).
San Diego Zoo: 5 mammals (360571).
San Francisco State Univ.: 1 plant (361990).
Santa Barbara Museum of Natural History: 1 ascidian (277652); 5 mollusks (364116).
Secao Artropodos Reconhentos, Brazil: 1 spider (363968).
Shinshu Univ.,Japan: 4 fishes (362552).
Skidaway Institute of Oceanography: 2 starfishes (313776).

<<<Page: 297>>>

Smithsonian Institution (see the following funds: Canfield,
Chamberlain, Hillman, Mineral, Roebling, Roland W. Brown, Springer, Stuart, and Walcott): National Museum of Natural History: Collected: 153 echinoderms, North America, Dr. Frederick M. Bayer (231965, 347966); 86 birds and 20 mammals, India, Bruce M. Beehler (355770); 700 fossil and recent bones, Dr. A. K. Behrensmeyer (362221); 700 mammals, 58 amphibians and reptiles, Sierra Leone, Dr. Michael D. Carleton (357344); 5,000 misc. invertebrates and 156 crustaceans, North Western Atlantic Ocean and North America, Dr. Robert S. Carney (332965, 352305); 8 echinoderms, New Guinea, C. Allan Child (341155); 3 brachiopods, Antarctica, Dan Chaney (366279); 1 coral, Jamaica, Elizabeth Chornesky (362531); 10 echinoderms, Belize, Timothy E. Coffer (349206); 5 polychaetes, Dr. G. Kent Colbath (361378); 23,984 misc. insects and arthropods, India, Venezuela, Dr. Don R. Davis (365155, 367059); 32 bamboos, Dave Edelman (364590, 364715); 4 fossil reptiles, North America, Richard Efthim (365471); 19 mollusks, Diego Garcia Islands, Cdr. Robert E. Elster (361005); 29 amphibians and reptiles, Peru, French Guiana, Louise H. Emmons (362688, 362689); 1,100 fossil plants and vertebrates, North America, Dr. Robert J. Emry (361620, 363748); 533 plants, Africa, Dr. Robert Faden (361925); 16 rocks, 1,214 plants, Venezuela, Dr. Vicki Funk (359934, 362040, 364690); 200 mollusks, North America, Mrs. Raye Germon (362255); 134 fishes, Bahamas, Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. (363870); 233 crustaceans, 1,173 crustacean slides, Dr. Robert H. Gore (356533); 50 mollusks, Bahamas, Dr. C. W. Hart, Jr. (358266); 7 amphibians and reptiles, Venezuela, John B. Heppner (350404); 87 amphibians and reptiles, Brazil, Dr. W. Ronald Heyer (362718); 3,613 crustaceans, 1,450 worms, North America, Newfoundland, China, Dr. Robert P. Higgins (347428, 349482, 361668, 362444, 365512); 21 birds, Jamaica, Bill Hilgartner (360429); 400 worms, North America, Isles of Scilly, Dr. W. Duane Hope (362277, 363033, 365340); 2,143 mollusks, 3 fossils, 9 echinoderms, 1 worn, North America, Australia, Belize, Dr. Richard Houbrick (356679, 360320, 361849, 363946, 365498); 59 birds, Trinidad, Dr. Peter Houde (360433); 180 crustaceans, 169 mollusks, 6 echinoderms, North America, Bermuda, Dr. Meredith L. Jones (351556, 355730, 360675); 145 fossils, 1 asteroid, 2 fishes, 100 worms, Seychelles, Dr. Brian F. Kensley (355515, 360082); 8 echinoids, North America, Dr. Porter M. Kier (358235); 50 echinoderms, New Caledonia, Cathy Lamb (337316); 84 echinoderms, North America, Ronald J. Larson (332888); 300. fossil vertebrates, North America, Lloyd Logan (364004); 1 spider, Venezuela, Dr. Jerry Louton (367057); 1,186 crustaceans, 201 echinoderms, Japan, North America, Dr. Raymond B. Manning (359409, 361134); 107 crustaceans, North America, Dr. Raymond B. Manning and Woody Lee (355577); 42 sea anemones and echinoderms, Ascension Island, Dr. Raymond B. Manning, Dr. Meredith L. Jones, Dr. David L. Pawson, Dr. Joseph R. Rosewater and Dr. Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr. (323014); 2,821 insects, Mexico, Dr. Wayne N. Mathis (367081); 11 volcanic rocks, North America, Dr. William G. Melson (362956); 3 blocks of limestone containing fossil seagrass, Worth America, Gary S. Morgan (361362); 2 sponges, China, Jim Norris (356869); 25 sea urchins, 2 bird skeletons, 34 prairie chickens, South Atlantic Ocean, North America, Bermuda, Dr. Storrs Olson (318271, 362331,

<<<Page: 298>>>

Smithsonian (cont'd)
360416); 20 holothurians, Puerto Rico, Dr. David L. Pawson (361697); 8 worms, Antarctica, Charles W. Potter (363467); 72 fossil vertebrates, North America, Dr. Clayton E. Ray (363235); 50 phanerogams, Panama, Dr. Robert Read (363592); 97 birds, 12 mammals, 18 fishes, India, Dr. S. D. Ripley (362364); 4 minerals, North America, Timothy Rose (365082); 50 amphibians and reptiles, North America, Charles A. Ross (358619); 51 sponges and octocorals, 40 slides of sponges, North America, Bermuda, Dr. Klaus Ruetzler (346420, 365629); 1 echinoid, Rangiroa Atoll, M.H. Sachet (357619); 939 plants, Russia, Dr. Stanwyn Shetler (360883, 363622); 250 plants, Peru, Dr. Steve Smith (364666); 600 worms, Guam, Myriam Smythe (362445); 2 bamboos, India, Dr. Thomas Soderstrom (357704); 66,177 insects and arthropods, Cuba, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Venezuela, Dr. Paul J. Spangler (366282, 366996, 366997, 367080); 19 crustaceans, 398 fishes, Seychelles, Dr. Victor G. Springer (356342); 1 rat, Indonesia, Dr. Paul M. Taylor (355782); 9,390 fishes, 413 crustaceans, 111 insects, 1 mollusk, 6 amphibians, Venezuela, Peru, Dr. Richard P. Vari (351119, 353910,359102); bulk fossil samples, New Hebrides, Fiji, Dr. Thomas Waller (310434); 124 fishes, Brazil, Dr. Stanley H. Weitzman (363878); 1 mineral, North America, John Sampson White (361801); 16 bamboos, Mexico, Steve Young (360903, 363641); 12 corals, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Vassil Zlatarski (365002, 365533); 47 mammals, Marine Mammal Program (360551); 8,573 sponges and lower invertebrates, Tunisia, Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center (298584). Found in Collections: 1 petrified wood, North America (364210); 5,919 fossils (358264); 439 minerals (361098). Purchased: 10 copepods, North America (260739); 1 meteorite, North America (358446); 1 meteorite, North America (362910); 5 trilobites (360366); 1 meteorite, North America (356821); 98,225 butterflies (367029); 2,300 caddisflies, Bolivia (365543); 100 bird skeletons and 8 alcoholics, Ecuador (362336); 14 moths, Chili (367870); National Zoological Park: 1 elephant seal (357918); 36 mammals (360574); 1 salamander, North America (357945); 8 sea turtles, Greece (362106); 1 sea turtle, Cayman Islands (362701). Oceanographic Sorting Center: 344 stlasterines, 2,764 scleractinians, 1,087 echinoids, Antarctica, Indian Ocean (260779); 9,624 mise. invertebrates, Antarctica, Indian Ocean and Brazil, (323383); 12 algaes, Philippines (363571); 81 plants, Philippines (363576); 10 plants, Chile, Argentina, Philippines (357839); 3.084 holothurians, Antarctic Ocean (289601); 6 echinoderms, Antarctica (318316); 26,080) siphonophora and medusae, Ocean Acre Program (319613); 2,932 echinoderms and misc. invertebrates (356847); 2 gorgonians (356880); 10,325 echinodermata larvae, 228 echinoids, 182 erinoids, 61 asteroids, 61 holothurians, 109 ascidians, 12 scleractinians, 38 gorgonians, 10 ophiuroids (363789); 127 fishes, Belize (361433), 31 fishes, Bering Sea (363856); 112 fishes, Africa (363881); 2 gastropods, Panama (363760); 1,425 recent brachiopods (295038); 1,800 brachiopods (318633); 21 brachiopods (363941); 100 foraminifera (364780); 3 worms (361632); 1,549 worms (366143); 30 polychaetes (362274); 2 polychaetes, Belize (362789); 20 worms (363245); 85 worm slides (363468); 1,210 nematodes (363686); 290 polychaetes, Arctic Ocean (363755); 3,000 polychaetes (364522); 9 worms (365346); 31 worms (365409); 171 worm slides, Antarctic Ocean

<<<Page: 299>>>

Smithsonian (cont'd)
and South Pacific (366118); Tropical Research Institute: 16 echinoderms, Panama (314408); 3 sponges, Panama (359186); 1 mammal skeleton, Panama (362178); 1 crocodile, Panama (362178); 1 treefrog, Panama (364399).
South African Museum, South Africa: 2 bird skeletons (362388, exchange).
South Florida Research Center: 1 echinoderm (352816).
South Florida, Univ. of: 8 echnoids (331914); 10 fishes (363884, exchange); 2 plants (364716).
Southern California, Univ. of: 994 echinoderms (248694, 249302, 361699); 11 crustaceans (349537); Allan Hancock Foundation: 18 echinoderms (357631, 357618); 1 worm (363949); 303 corals and anemones (255039).
Southern Illinois Univ. of: 18 fishes (317090, exchange).
Southeastern Oklahoma State Univ.: 68 phanerogams (363625, exchange) .
Southwestern Louisiana, Univ. of: 128 plants (359703, exchange); 161 plants (360837, 364673, 363579); 205 crustaceans (361133, 361650).
Springer Fund: 12 fossil crinoids (363747); 3 fossil echinoids (364779) .
Staatliches Naturhistorisches Museum, Germany: 2 fishes (361440, exchange); 3 fishes (361450).
Stanford, Univ. of: 4 sea anemones (244137); 24 fossils (361571).
Station Marine D'Endoume, France: 6 corals (359249).
Stuart Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 5 minerals (358437, 359318, 361029); 358364 (See also Hillman Fund).
Swedish Museum of Natural History, Sweden: 14 lichens (364725, exchange).
Tasmania, Univ. of, Australia: 1 plant (359650).
Tatsuo Tanaka Memorial Biological Station, Japan: 1 fish (337309).
Tennessee, Univ. of: 1 echinoderm (362306); 1 lichen (364563).
TereEco Corporation: 475 echinoderms (344397, 345879).
Texas A&I Univ.: 4 holothurians (306442).
Texas A&M Univ.: 11 asteroids, 1 coral, 8 ecninoids and holothurians (310232, 326305, 335983, 338320); S. M. Tracy Herbarium: 104 plants (361904, 3646565, exchanges).
Texas Tech Univ.: 9 fossils (364118).
Texas, Univ. of: Herbarium: 67 plants (363554, 363602, 363623, 364746); 20 plants (364745, exchange); Institute of Marine Science: 24 fishes (248691, exchange); Marine Biomedical Institute: 25 sponges (332586).
Toronto, Univ. of, Canada: 20 echnoids (361327).
Tropic World Foundation Inc.: 16 plants (363176).
Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology, Canada: 7 slabs of Devonian brachiopods (353571, exchange).
Universidad Autonoma de Nueva Leon, Mexico: 4 fishes (319464).
Universidad Catolica de Valparaiso, Chile: 11 fishes (362541, exchange).
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Venezuela: 65 fishes (361452, 362540, exchanges); 1 plant (360866, exchange); 249 plants (360866, 360768, 360881, 360905, 363190, 364706 364623).
Universidad de Antioquia, Colombia: 10 plants (360391).

<<<Page: 300>>>

Universidad de Concepcion, Chile: 10 holothurians (260599). Universidad de Costa Rica, Costa Rica: 35 fishes (362573, 565552)’. Universidad de Guadalajra, Jalisco: 1 plant (359701, exchange). Universidad de Los Andes, Venezuela: 20 plants (360341, exchange); 109 plants (360841, 363573, 363600, 364568, 364659, 364711). Universidad de Oriente, Venezuela: 2 tunicates (363075). Universidad Nacional de Asuncion, Paraguay: 86 phanerogams (364653). Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Colombia: 5 plants (364616, exchange). Universidad Nacional del Nordeste, Argentina: 33 plants (exchange), 10 plants (364621). Universidad Nacional de Tucuman, Argentina: 28 mealybugs (365135).
Universidad Nacional Experimental de Los Llanos Occidentales "Ezequiel
Zamora", Venezuela: 26 plants (363192).
Universidad Nacional Tecnica de Cajamarca, Peru: 91 pnanerogams (364573).
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil: 101 phanerogams (360885); 1,787 fishes (361451, exchange); 17 insects (361611, exchange); 366 caddisflies (365577).
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil: 2 plants (360848).
Universidade Federal de Sao Carlos, Brazil: 98 fishes (365256, exchange).
Universidade Fereral de Vicosa, Brazil: 20 plants (365815).
Universitat Hamburg, Germany: 12 plants (363631, exchange).
Universitat Munchen, Germany: 8 plants (362073).
Universitat Tubingen: Zoophysiologishes Institut, West Germany: 11 sea anemones (249108); 15 echinoids (352485).
Universite D'Aix Marseille, France: 1 echinoderm (330419).
Universite Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium: 1 echinoderm (352070).
Universitetet I Tromso, Norway: 1 insect slide (362834).
University College of the West Indies, Jamaica: 1 sea anemone (233397); 4 scleractinian corals (256553); 11 plants (363501).
University of the West Indies, Trinidad: 16 octocorals (323843).
University College of Swansea, England: 7 crustacean slides (362983).
Uppsala, Univ. of, Sweden: 118 plants (360765, 363597, 364564, 364672, exchanges).
Utah, Univ. of: 4 sponges (361017); 1 plant (363488).
Vanderbilt Univ.: 28 plants (362072); 73 plants (364670, exchange).
Yepco-North Anna Power Station: 17 crayfishes (362529).
Virginia Institute of Marine Science: 36 sharks (361445); 5 mammals (364847); 4 sea anemones (239462).
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State Univ: 2 scale insects (365136). .
Visayas State College of Agriculture, Philippines: 30 sponges (355888).
Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 2 fossil (361196, 364755).
Washington, Univ. of: Fisheries Research Institute: 22 crustaceans (363997); School of Oceanography: 83 crustaceans (361821); Marion Ownbey Herbarium: 125 plants (359677).
Waterloo, Univ. of, Canada: 5 crustaceans (360936, exchange).
Western Foundation of Vertebrate Zoology: 125 birds (355790 ,exchange).

<<<Page: 301>>>

William and Mary College: 9 insects (365578).
Wisconsin, Univ. of: Herbarium: 68 plants (359707, 361924, exchanges); 17 plants (361924).
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution: 19 fishes (213425, exchange); 1 horn coral (251124); 24 worms (362217).
Wyoming, Univ. of: 60 bagworms (365159).
Yale Univ.: Peabody Museum of Natural History: 100 sea anemones (243276); 1 bird skeleton (362317, exchange).
Zoologisches Museum: Christian-Albrechts-Unversitat, Germany: 235 lacewings (365153, exchange).
Zoologisk Museum, Denmark: 2 asteroids (361823, 363266, exchange).
Rolf L. Aalbu: 9 beetles (362293).
Robert Aaronheim: 100 moths (362813); 82 butterflies (363958, 365139, 365563).
Dr. R. Tucker Abbott: 2 mollusks (363790).
Dr. Robert E. Acciavatti: 19 insects (365376, exchange).
Drs. Naosuke Adachi and Isao Yagi: 5 synthetic beryls (361792).
John Agard: 2 crustaceans (362532).
Dr. David G. Ainley: 136 sea birds (360458, 362382).
Dr. Herculano Alvarenga: 15 birds (362370).
Eliseo Amado-Gonzalez: 1 spider (362823).
Joseph R. Anderson: fossil walrus canine (362278).
Karen Anderson: 2 treefrogs (358019).
Dr. Bryan L. Andryszak: 3 crustaceans (363321).
J. Phillip Angle: 5 mammals (364876).
Roy A. Armstrong: 7 corals (365440).
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace L. Ashby: 7 fossil bird and seal (350129); fossil seal skeleton (361567); 2 fossil fish (363733).
Dr. J. R. Ashworth: 2 minerals (363364).
Sal Avella: 2 minerals (361752).
Avril Ayling: 2 sponges (360121).
Milton and Rita Babcock: 7 trilobites (362675).
Dr. Julie Bailey-Brock: 15 worms (362881).
Richard Bailowitz: 2 skippers (365143).
Mr. and Mrs. J. Wayne Baker: 457 fossil vertebrates (359166, 365385).
Greg Bammerlin: 9 fossil mammals (363090).
Carlos do Prado Barbosa: 6 minerals (365916).
Dr. Michael T. Barbour: ‘11 worm slides (366045).
A. Barnes: 20 holothurians (331886).
Roger C. Barnett: 9 minerals (359276, 364231).
Jeannette Barreca: 12 worms (365361).
Dr. Fabrizio Battoni: 1 beetle (362847).
Bruce H. Bauer: 225 fishes (365326).
John L. Baum: 1 mineral (363373).
Dr. R. W. Baumann: 2 stoneflies (365165).
Donald Baumgartner: 76 blowflies (367055); 92 houseflies (367070).
Robert L. Benner: 1 fern (364676).
Mrs. Thelma Bennett: 1 fossil tapir tooth (363254).

<<<Page: 302>>>

Dr. Richard H. Benson: 1 trilobite (366051).
Ezio Bernabe: 30 minerals (364259, exchange).
Colin D. Berrisford: 10 holothurians (260383).
Dr. G. J. Beukes: 2 minerals (361076).
Dr. Robert R. Bidigare: 1 gorgonian (363756).
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Biggs: fossil porpoise skull (363260).
T. Dale Bishop: 15 worms (361627).
Capt. and Mrs. D. B.. Bixler: 21 crustaceans (362676).Andre Blanchard: 18 moths (365145).
Francis S. Blasdell: 23 amphibians and reptiles (358026).
Dr. Nabil Z. Boctor: 1 meteorite (365903).
Dr. Russell Boggs: 1 mineral (351051).
David J. Bohaska: 4 fossil sea lion bones (363818).
T. Bonace: 11 caddisflies (363973).
Richard C. Bostwick: 1 mineral (361096).
Dr. Raymond W. Bouchard: 170 mollusks (338755).
John Boursot: 2 centipedes (365163).
Michel Boutet: 14 land snails (366077).
Dr. Ray A. Boyce: 7 pieces of petrified wood (366113).
Jane Boyle: 6 mollusks (365608); 10 echinoderms (365633).
Dr. Richard Braithwaite: 3 minerals (361077).
Dr. John Brattey: 19 worms (362251).
Jeffrey L. Briggs: 432 amphibians and reptiles (362768).
Kevin B. Briggs: 505 recent brachiopods (363295).
Dr. Ralph 0. Brinkhurst: 9 worms (365410).
Dr. Donald Brinkman: 39 Permian vertebrates (364000).
Dr. Pierce Brodkorb: 280 bird skeletons (329591).
Vernon Antoine Brou: 77 moths (362808,365543).
Mark Brown: 1 fossil porcupine fish jaw (363734).
Dr. Richard L. Brown: 44 butterflies (362846).
Roland Brown: 13 worms, 3 insects and 1 fish (361562).
Dr. Robert L. Brownell: 1 porpoise (364888).
Mrs. Ruth Browne: 4,000 fossils (360385).
Paul and Helen Buchanan: 2 fossils (363830).
Dr. John B. Buck: 182 insects (362842).
Dr. David J. Bullock: 3 frogs (364396).
Beatrice L. Burch: 4 corals (363311).
Mrs. Thomas A. Buren: 1,751 echinoderms (300062).
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Burns: 5 fossil seal bones (361367); 67 fossil vertebrates (362280, 363238, 365868).
Stephen D. Busack: 86 amphibians and reptiles (362725).
Hector Caballos: 1 bird (360426).
Curtis Callaghan: 26 insects (365546).
Philip Cambridge: 50 echinoids (362513).
Dr. Lyle Campbell: 1 fossil walrus bone (362880).
Robert H. Campbell: 1 fossil wood (363256).
Juan I. Canete and Dr. Louis H. Disalvo: 14 worms (365582).
Dr. C. S. Carbonell: 470 caddisflies (365553).
Dr. James T. Carlton: 100 mollusks (366313).
Dr. James Carpenter: 24 insects (367043).
Kenneth Carpenter: 1 fossil cast (359502).
Dr. AnaLuisa Carreno: 13 microslides of fossils (362799).
Gerard R. Case: 5 fossil whale specs. (363719).
Dr. F. Chalumeau: 11 beetles (353764, exchange).

<<<Page: 303>>>

Ralph S. Chamness: 2 fossil fish jaws (366347).
Dr. George Y. Chao: 1 mineral (365072).
Paul J. Cheung: 2 protozoan slides (363323).
C. Allan Child: 7 salamanders (283929).
Dr. Leon S. Ciereszko: 12 gorgonians (319522).
Mrs. Sharon Cisneros: 4 minerals (361060).
Clarence F. Clark: 3 land mollusks (364117).
Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke: 836 misc. insects (362830, 363957, 365568).
Dr. Jonathan Coddington: 140 misc. insects and arthropods (365156).
Paul Coffee: fragments of coral and pearl shell (357658).
Ed. Cohen: 8 spiders (362838, 363965, 365573, 367063); 30 phanerogams (363209).
Dr. E. I. Coher: 12 horseflies (367034).
Dr. G. Kent Colbath: 19 fossil slides (366111).
A. J. Comproni, II: 624 mise. insects (367039).
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Comproni, Sr.: 238 misc. insects (367038).
Dan L. Cooper: 21 fossils (361379).
Elly Ana Cordiviola: 10 sponges (269111).
Dr. David T. Corey: 21 vial of spiders (363977); 58 arthropods (367072).
Dr. Charles V. Covell, Jr.: 23 insects (363980, 365137).
Dr. James Craig: 2 minerals (361080).
Julian Cranfill: 3 minerals (361782, 363416).
Dr. David Craw and Dr. John Williams: 4 minerals (361099).
Dr. Brian R. Critchley: 1 worm (332774).
Dr. Ronald I. Crombie and Jerry Hardy, Jr.: 12 mexican fruit bats (364477).
Marvin Cross: 300 fossil shark and reptile remains (363261).
Mrs. H. E. Crouch: 14 fossil samples (364157).
Charles R. Crumly: 9 amphibians and reptiles (353816).
Lydia Czapek: 1 quartz (361124).
Dr. Stephen Danielson: 1 spider (367067).
Dr. Mike Dardeau: 2 worms (362794).
Charles N. D'Asaro: 300 egg capules and masses (363459).
Dr. Dan M. Dauer: 3 worms (364761).
Charles E. Dawson: 100 misc. invertebrates (212754).
Mrs. J. A. Day: 2 insects (363956).
Allen Dean: 4 minerals (361118).
Dr. David Dean: 48 worms (366052).
Dra. Nelly Carillo de Espinoza: 14 spiders (357073).
Drs. Otto and Isa Degener: 40 phanerogams (361995).
Hironori Deguc hi: 1 plant (364728).
Dr. Don Denning: 16 vials of spiders (362843).
Philip DeVries: 2 insects (365558).
Dr. Louis H. DiSalvo: See also Juan I. Canete (365582).
Helmut Dismer: 1 mineral (362893).
George Divoky: 3 birds (360484).
Dr. Peter S. Dixon: 591 algae specs. (363540).
David Dockery: 23 fossils (363332).
Dr. T. W. Donnelly: 1 damselfly (362845).
Raymond Douglas: 38 fossil vertebrates and amber (363240).
Harry C. Dunlap: 4 squirrels, 1 weasel (360556).
James M. DuPont: 5 meteorites (363357).
Arthur F. Eadie: 1 mineral (352940, exchange).

<<<Page: 304>>>

Frances Eddy: 33 mollusks (359499).
Dr. William G. Eberhard: 2 spiders (367031).
Rev. Robert Eisele: 7 insects (362828).
J. P. Eissen, P. Maillet, M. Monzier: 20 pumices (362895).
Mrs. Elsie K. Eltzroth: 1 albino bluebird (360472).
Richard Emlet: 10 holothurians (358061).
Dr. Dodge Engleman: 1,997 misc. true bugs (362833).
John H. Epler: 5 slides of flies (367074).
Roland Eriksson: 25 minerals (359315, 365036, 365919).
Carl H. Ernst: 61 turtles (356034).
Dr. Christer Erseus: 12 worms, 11 worm slides (363279, 365613).
Dr. Terry L. Erwin: 45 mise. insects (365576).
Dr. Ralph E. Eshelman: 1 fossil (360131).
Alvaro Esteues Migotto: 25 worms (361712).
Dr. Elwin D. Evans: 4 fishflies (367052).
Janet L. Evans: 4 mayflies (367060).
Robert Evans: 1 mineral (359293).
Dr. Michael Ewing: 6 worms (364762).
Dr. H. Lee Fairbanks: 8 mollusks (355178).
Dr. D. John Faulkner: 7 sponges (354812, 365167).
Dr. Alice D. A. Fay: 201 ferns (364620).
Dr. Mark Feinglos: 14 minerals (361732, 362951, 365061, exchanges).
Albert L. Ferguson: 1 fossil auk humerus (360124).
Dr. Douglas C. Ferguson: 2,921 moths (363971).
Carl Ferraris: 28 corals (363720).
Dr. C.D. Ferris: 4 insects (363961).
Ola Fincke: 18 lots of frog larvae, 12 dragonflies (362737, 365571).
Dr. Lloyd T. Findley: 2 hydroids (366312).
Dr. Kenneth Finger: 9 fossils (366112).
Robert Finkelman: 3 minerals (366511).
Dr. Arne Fjellberg: 3 spiders (365162).
David B. Flanagan: 2 bamboos (364729).
Art Fletcher: 1 mineral (361052).
Mrs. Carol M. Flint: 277 insects (363970).
Dr. Larry Flynn: 46 fossil rodent casts (360075).
Terence B. Foley: 56 insects (363975).
George C. Fonger: 1 fossil seal incisor (363236).
E. J. Ford, Jr.: 130 leaf miners (365562). ,
Dr. W. A. Foster: 92 mosquitoes (367077).
Jim Fowler: 3 minerals (365114).
Harry Foye: 6 minerals (361123, 362975).
Dr. J. H. Frank: 14 beetles (362844).
Dave Franz: 45 asteroids (340673).
Dr. Jack Frazier: 2 echinoderms (350354); 55 mollusks, 1 snake (362702).
Dr. John G. Frazier: 8 echinoderms (330168, 347787); 22 worms (365600).
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Freed: 5 minerals (365933).
Vicky S. Frey: 29 echinoids (344925).
Norton A. Vicira Fritzscne: 6 fossil fish skeletons (365633).
Charles M. Fugler: 46 amphibians and reptiles (355027).
Emilio F. Garcia: 1 mollusks (364369).
Frank A. Garcia: 1 calcite (361780), 63 fossil fish and sirenian remains (362314).

<<<Page: 305>>>

Torgeir T. Garmo: 2 minerals (362938).
B. J. Gartrell: 1 mineral (364214).
Christopher Garvie: 22 eocene decapod crustaceans (363746).
Ronald Gates: 4 minerals (363401).
William R. Gates: 3 frog larvaes (362133).
Arthur Gerk: 77 fossils (364781).
Ewald Gerstmann: 2 minerals (365875).
Dr. Willis J. Gertsch: 18 vials of spiders (362810).
Loran D. Gibson: 1 butterfly (363967).
Mrs. Dorothy B. Gilchrist: 1 quartz (365083).
Dr. R. J. Gilkes: 1 mineral (361050).
Liz Gilreath: 1 beetle (365131).
Colin W. Gipson: 2 fossil mammal jaws (363455).
Dr. E. Gittenberger: 11 marine mollusks (364155);
Dr. Thomas Gloerfelt-Tarp: 37 fishes (356448).
Harry Joseph Goett: 122 metavolcanic rocks (364258).
Mrs. Natalia Goodall: 11 fossil crabs and mollusks (363463).
David Grabda: 3 shark-bitten whale rib fragments (364827).
Frederick V. Grady: 40 fossil fish and mammal remains (363291).
Dr. Richard E. Grant: 12 fossils (361666).
Catherine D. Gray: See also James M. Gray (364753, 364754).
James M. and Catherine D. Gray: 2 pieces of green fossil woods and 3 petrified wood logs (364753, 364754).
Paul R. Greenhall: 12 amphibians and reptiles (298757).
Dr. Joel Grice: 2 minerals (361746).
Dr. J. Norman Grim: 1 protozoan slide (366500).
Todd Grimsley: fossil albatross portion (362214).
Matthew S. Groher and Dr. James G. Morin: 6 ophiuroids (363786).
Dr. W. T. T. P. Gunawardane: 8 insects (365216).
John Gunderson: 2 protozoan slides (365985).
Gerald Gunderson: fossil acanthodian (363674).
Dr. Charles R. Gunn: 19 plants (363572).
Lloyd Gunther: fossil slab (366277).
Dr. Stefan Hain: 5 mollusks (365342).
Peter A. Hall: 15 mollusks (363826).
Mr. and Mrs. Rick Hamera: 347 moths (367040).
S. W. Hamilton: 1 caddisfly (367061).
Jeff Hancey: 1 fossil (363735).
Samuel Hansen: 2 minerals (365055).
Dr. Staffan Hansen: 1 mineral (364275).
Charles Hanzlick: 1 fossil wood (365632).
Richard Harbison: 2 echinoderms (334763).
Jerry David Hardy, Jr: See also Ronald I. Crombie (364477).
Peter H. Harmatuk: 1,836 fossil vertebrates (361307, 3635244, 365018).
Francis Harrington: 202 misc. insects (365547, 367046).
Dr. S. C. Harris: 53 caddisflies (362824).
Simon Harrison: 1 mineral (363399).
Harold W. Harry: 27 worms (352076); 1 sponge (352075).
Jack Harry: 4 insects (365160).
G. Schmedia Harschmann: 53 plants (363139).
Dr. John P. Hartley: 2 worms (362193).
Eugene F. Hartstein: 3 fossil mossaur teeth (3654790).
Michiaki Hasegawa: 12 water beetles: (363964).

<<<Page: 306>>>

Dr. Phyllis Hasson: 35 fossils (365988).
Dr. Marea Hatziolos: 17 sponges (356576, 359478).
Fred Hayes: fossil shark, seal and sirenian remains (363239).
Robert M. Hazen: 7 minerals (361737).
Richard W. Heard: 7 sponges (362307).
Dr. Barbara Hecker: 1 asteroid (365406).
Claus Hedegaard: 13 minerals (361785, 365049).
Joe Heidenberg: fossil seal metatarsal (361149).
Dieter Heinlein: 1 meteorite (363423).
Ernst Heiss: 2 insects (362832).
Edward P. Henderson: 25 minerals (363419, 365961).
Dr. Q. B. Hendey: 200 mollusks (355468).
Wolfzang Henkel: 2 minerals (362947).
Dr. George Herman: 5 corals (365170).
Hugh Heron: 1 mineral (364305).
Mr. and Mrs. Scott Hertenstein: portion of a fossil monk seal jaw (363262).
Martin Hetz: 84 weevils (363955).
Dr. Henry A. Hespenheide: 18 insects (365555).
Gary F. Hevel: 15,124 misc. insects (365545).
James Hill: 51 birds (362413).
Dr. Steven Hill: 168 phanerogams (364641).
Evelyn Himelgrin: 1 mineral (363410).
Mr. and Mrs. L. Hodges: fossil shearwater toe bone (363088).
Richard L. Hoffman: 2 salamanders, 21 insects (357982, 367049).
N. D. Holland: 1 protozoan slide (363310).
David W. Hollenbaugh: 14 minerals (361119).
Jay Holley: portion of a fossil walrus and 3 fossil vertebrates (360246, 363237).
Ralph W. Holzenthal: 21 dragonflies (367050).
Carolus Holzschuh: 2 beetles (365551).
Dr. Hideo Horikawa: cast of a fossil sea lion (361197).
Peter Houde: 1 partial bird skeleton (360478).
Richard Hronik: 3 minerals (365065).
Dr. Neil C. Hulings: 100 marine mollusks (362432).
Dr. Mario A. Hunicken: cast of a fossil spider (362502).
Alexander D. Huryn: 6 caddisflies (362811).
John A. Hyatt: 188 moths (362822).
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Hyne: 1,152 fossil vertebrates (360247, 362281, 5637165). 505551)
Dr. Thomas Iliffe: 2 echinoderms (342201).
Dr. Billy G. Isom: 12 freshwater mollusks (363314).
Michael A. Ivie: 4 beetles (365140).
Jeremy F. Jacobs: 71 amphibians and reptiles (358028).
Dr. John L. Jambor: 7 minerals (365126).
Matthew J. James: 4 fossil echinoids (363749).
Dr. Henry Jarecki: 4,620 mise. insects (363972).
Dr. Dale Jenkins: 32 butterflies (362840).
Dr. J. G. Johnson: 12 fossil brachiopods (361018).
Mark E. Johnson: 2 fossil seal flipper bones and a partial tooth (363241).
Thomas T. Johnson: 1 fossil (363736).
David Jonnston: 2 snakes (362751).
Jerome Jones: 2 salamander larvaes (326286).
Wo Oo Va

<<<Page: 307>>>

Victoria Jones: 80 caddisflies (367395).
Charles Judd: a bound book of plant specs. (359711).
James Kaltenbach: a partial porpoise skull (351147).
Dr. Anthony Kampf: 1 mineral (361800).
Dr. Leslie Kanat: 1 mineral (3655907).
Dr. B. J. Kaston: 240 vials of spiders (362820).
Dr. Masaharu Kawakatsu: 3 worms (361380).
Roy 0. Kendall: 4 small moths (365148).
Dr. Peter Kimmel: a fossil catfish spine (363751).
Mrs. Nettie E. King: a fossil walrus rostrum (363252).
Ralph F. Kirchner: 1 water beetle and 147 misc. insects (362841, 362849).
Dr. Ernst Kirsteur: 3 worms (361677).
Dr. Edward C. Knudson: 15 insects (365141, 365147).
Mrs. Patricia H. Kohler: 5 fossil cepnolopod, seal and walrus remains (363107).
Dr. Alan J. Kohn: 2 fossils (363944).
John Kolic: 9 minerals (361055, 361079, 361113, 365075).
Dr. Boris C. Kondratieff: 3 mayflies and 10 stoneflies (362825, 363979) .
Dr. Nicholas A Kormilev: 1,019 tiger beetles (365549).
N. L. H. Krauss: 2,073 misc. insects (363689, 365149, 367032).
Dr. N. P. Kristensen: 69 caddisflies (362848).
Dr. Barry S. Kues: 2 fossils (365229).
Dr. Kishor Kumar: 34 casts of indian fossil mammals (361860).
Jean Lacourt: 66 sawflies (359197, 363976, exchanges).
Dr. Paul K. Lago: 6 caddisflies (365153).
Cathy Lamb: 5 crustaceans (337316).
Trip Lamb: 1 treefrog: (362709).
Austin E. Lamberts: 1 coral (358189).
Paulo da Cunha Lana: 37 worms (365020).
Mr. and Mrs. L. K. Land: 1 quartz (361063).
N. Gary Lane: 66 fossils (363091).
Scott Larcher: 61 misc. insects and arthropods (367048).
Ronny Larsson: 27 protozoan slides (350438, 359498, 361420, 365867).
Dr. A. L. Laskar: 3 minerals (363363).
Rene Maximiliano Lazalde M.: 19 opals (364213).
Dr. James D. Lazell, Jr.: 40 mise. insects and arthropods (367053).
James Leggett: 3 fossil peccary and whale teeth (363454).
Jean le Mouel: 8 minerals (361738).
Sara Lesher: a fossil gannet distal end (365359).
Dr. Herbert W. Levi: 2 spiders (362821).
Lance R. Lewand: 19 echinoderms (360660, 361328).
Dr. David J. Lewis: 2 mothflies (365536).
William R. Liltved: 18 marine mollusks (363035).
Dr. Bengt Lindqvist: 1 mineral (365896).
Ernest A. Liner: 17 amphibians and reptiles and 61 crustaceans (362161, 362534).
Dr. Elbert L. Little, Jr.: 235 plants (363474).
A. se a Helen Tappan Loeblich: 206 fossil foraminiferas (361019, B61576)%
Helen Tappan Loeblich: See also A. R. Loeblich (361019, 361576).
Gordon Love: 3 echinoids (313941).
Dr. P. J. Loveland: 4 minerals (361763).

<<<Page: 308>>>

Joachim Luckwaldt: 3 minerals (361070, 361789).
Spencer R. Luke: 7 asteroids (351262); 1 echinoderm (363076). Dr. Denis H. Lynn: 1 protozoan slide (357446).
Dr. I. H. H. Lyster: cast of a fossil seal humerus (360500). Dr. A. S. Y. Mackie: 3 worms (362208).
Dr. David B. MacLean: 50 caddisflies (365552).
Jean-Michel Maes: 8 caddisflies (367066).
P. Maillet: See also J. P. Eissen (362895).
Dr. Peter F. Major: 15 caridean shrimp (363307).
Linda Yvonne Maluf: 1 echinoderm (361698).
Dr. Joseph A. Mandarino: 1 mineral (364234).
Margaret Mann: 25 brachiopods (360313).
John C. Markham: 1 crustacean (356430).
Natalie J. Marovelli: 8 mammals (360562).
Joseph Martinez: 1 bird (364090).
Juan C. Martinez-Sanchez: 119 birds (355806).
Maxwell P. Marrow: 13 marine mollusks (354806).
Dr. Stephen A. Marshall: 58 flies (367051).
Bryant Mather: 15 insects (365132, 365540).
Philip Mays: 2 butterflies (362829).
Dr. W. P. McCafferty: 2 mayflies (366064).
Dr. John C. McCain: 5 echinoderms, 853 worms (362503). Linda J. McCarthy: 7 fishes (362554).
Peter McCrery: 4 fossils (361148).
Emory MeDanal: 16 minerals (362921 ,363392, 364252, 365915). Marion McDowell: 1 eel (362550).
Noel McFarland: 1,112 moths (362851).
Michael McInnis: 25 butterflies (367076).
L. David Mech: 3 lice (365154).
Olaf Medenbach: 1 mineral (362949, exchange); 4 minerals (362950). Dr. Marcello Mellini: 4 minerals (363374).
George Melloy: a fossil pollywog (362640).
Dr. Arnold Menke: 1 millipede (362831).
Eric H. Metzler: 129 moths (367045).
Drs. Paul and Paula Mikkelsen: 5 fossils (363943).
Charles D. Miller, III: 9 misc. insects (367042).
Dr. Charles N. Miller, Jr.: 1 fossil and 34 fossil slides (363728).
John Miller: 6 echinoderms (331610).
Scott Miller: 40 land and freshwater mollusks (3613745). Dr. Claudia E. Mills: 6 echinoderms (365233).
John ¢. Modin: 4 protozoan slides (341123).
M. Monzier: See also J.P. Eissen (362895).
H. P. Mookherjee: 4 marine mollusks (359161).
Dr. Donald R. Moore: 2 mollusks (364155).
Gary A. Moore: 1 iguana skelton (358031).
John Moore: phalanx portion of a fossil walrus (363025). Jon Moore: 11 fossil vertebrates (363794).
Dr. Paul B. Moore: 8 minerals (362941).
Dr. James G. Morin and Matthew S. Grober: 6 echinoderms (363786). Mrs. Michael D. Mullin: 2,270 fossils (363292).
William L. Murphy: 418 flies (362816, 365533).
Mrs. Ruth Murter: a fossil vertebra (365393).
Masanito Natori: 2 raccoon dog skulls (360589).
Mrs. L. D. Neill: 5 echinoderms (315890).

<<<Page: 309>>>

Barry Nelms: 1 fin whale (364885).
A. C. Neumann: 17 echinoderms, 1 mollusks (359248).
Dr. Ernest Nickel: 2 minerals (361749, 365092).
Col. and Mrs. Marion Nielsen: 800 vertebrates (361308). Tony Nikischer: 1 mineral (365906).
Dr. Y. Noack: 1 mineral (361075).
Bob Nostrand and Carol Nostrand: 2 fossils (362224). Carol Nostrand: See also Bob Nostrand (362224).
Randy Nunnery: a fossil auk ulna and auk phalanx (361329, 365019). Ulf Nyberg: 2 minerals (365117).
Dr. C.W. O'Brien: 11 weevils (365535).
Jeff O'Neil: a fossil tilefish skull (361022).
Dr. J. Orensanz: 16 worms (365021).
Tinika Ossman: 7 land mollusks (362295).
Dr. William Leslie Overal: 14 weevils (365550).
Dr. R. T. Patterson: 44 foraminifera fossils (361625, 366013). Dr. W. H. Paar: 3 minerals (363402).
Faith D. Paine: 1 spider (367065).
Kay Pannell: latex cast of a dinosaur trackway (365408). Theodore J. Papenfuss: 1 lizard (362705).
Dr. Charles R. Parker: 12 insects (363981).
Dr. Narayan G. Patel: 123 phanerogams (365732).
Harry Pavulaan: 58 skippers and butterflies (365161).
Dr. Donald Peacor: 1 mineral (365964).
Dr. David L. Pearson: 82 ground beetles (362835, 365157). Dr. F. Pechar: 1 mineral (361786).
Claudia Pennie: 1 bird (360451).
Wendell Pennington: 1 water penny beetle (363965).
Don Pershau: 4 spiders (367064).
Dr. Ole V. Petersen: 1 mineral (357507, exchange).
Wayne R. Petersen: 1 bird (360389).
Giorgio Peyronel: 1 mineral (362929).
Peter E. Pickens: 19 worms (273540, 289455).
J. F. Pickett, Sr.: 1 crayfish (361140).
Dr. Harold Pieper: 2 bird skeletons (360394, exchange). Guy E. Pierson: fossil sirenian skull jaws (362490).
Sid Pieters: 1 mineral (365929).
William W. Pinch: 35 minerals (359319, 362979, 363422). Gyongyi Plucer-Rosario: 2 sponges (362530).
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Plugge: 1 sapphire (362945).
Gregory K. Pregill: 1 cave fish and 5 birds (362111).
Dr. Allan Pring: 1 mineral (361054).
Siegfried Raabe: right and left periotics of a fossil whale (362313). Dr. Frank Radovsky: 3 small moths (362817).
Russell A. Rahn: 500 butterflies and motns (361692, 365557). Dr. K. B. Rajput: 27 insects (367069).
Dr. John S. Ramsey: 523 crustaceans (359814).
Dr. J. A. Ramos: 8,565 mise. insects (362819). Anthony B. Rath: 16 medusae (334764).
Dr. Carleton Ray: 510 sponges and echinoderms (271533). Dr. Jan Reban: 2 minerals (364253).
Dr. Richard Reeder: 1 mollusk (364772).
David G. Reid: 360 mollusks (354807).
George Reiger: 5 birds (360457).

<<<Page: 310>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Tomm Reinbold: 1 fossil tapir tooth (364002).
Susanne Renner: 98 plants (364631).
Dr. H. Ribeiro: 10 insects (363978).
Prof. H. Ribeiro: 2 mosquitoe slides (366974).
Dr. W. E. Ricker: 1 stonefly (365166).
Norman L. Riker: 3 fossils (361818, 363817).
Dr. Edward G. Riley: 4 beetles (363969, 365133).
Dr. Nathan W. Riser: 2 worms (363695).Juan A. Rivero: 1 frog (362767).
Sgt. Albert J. Robb: 2 fossil seal bones (365395).
Dr. Robert K. Robbins: 69 butterflies (362837).
Sandy Roberts: 2 fossil bird bones (360127).
Willard L. Roberts: 8 minerals (363365).
George Robinson: 2 minerals (363381).
.Dr. R. A. Robison: 5 fossils (363750).
Frank Rocek: 4 minerals (361104).
Dr. W. D. Ian Rolfe: 6 fossil plants (361686).
George R. Rossman: 2 minerals (361788).
Dr. Gar W. Rothwell: 3,024 fossil plants (366110).
Jean-Paul Roux: 2 bird skeletons and 2 skulls (364091).
C. Ruckdeschel: 14 mollusks, 16 worms (339362).
Jack Rudloe: 5 echinoderms (265044).
Charlotte Watson Russell: 8 alcholic worms (363312).
Dr. 0. A. Saether: 42 slides of flies (367075).
Frank P. Sala: 163 moths (367037).
Rev. Lamuel G. Salik: 1 topaz, 2 beryls (365063).
Dr. Harry M. Savage: 433 misc. insects (362827, 367068).
Alan H. Savitsky: 127 amphibians and reptiles (362731).
Dr. M. Schlegel: 2 protozoan slides (365441).
Dr. G. Schmeda: 87 plants (365797).
Dr. K. Schmetzer: 1 mineral (362907).
Dr. Robert W. Schmieder: 50 echinoderms (355566).
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent P. Schneider: 344 fossil vertebrates (361861).
Angelika Schwarz: 2 echinoderm slides (344725).
J. Douglas Scott: 1 mineral (361015).
Randy Scott: 163 fossil vertebrates (361651, 363293).
Frank Seidenschwarz: 13 plants (363170).
Nelson R. Shaffer: 5 minerals (364278).
Earl W. Shindledecker: 1 mineral (365050).
David Shipman: anterior portion of a fossil cetothere mandible (361201).
Herbert Shockley: 1 fish (365299).
Dr. Liu Sicheng: 7 slides of worms (363131).
Michael G. Siegel: 1 quartz (365109).
Werner Simon: 4 minerals (365051).
Dr. Barbara H. S. Smith: 4 minerals (363350).
Dr. Julian P. S. Smith III: 2 slides of worms (362505).
Richard H. Smith, Jr.: 56 butterflies (365574).
Claudia Sobrevila: 60 spiders and 1 scorpion (365541).
Dr. James Sorauf: 2 fossils (363692).
Tony Soria: 152 moths (367041).
Dr. Sheldon Spencer: 4 fossils (363947).
Trent Spielman: fossil amphibian trackway (363831).
Charles Staines: 723 water and lady beetles (362812, 365146, 367056).
ay) 10)

<<<Page: 311>>>

Dr. William P. Stark: 134 stoneflies (365567).
Mrs. Terry A. Stasney: 100 stalk-eyed flies (365560). Dr. Wolfgang Sterrer: 12 echinoderms (365865).
R. H. Stewart: 89 minerals (359997).
R. L. Stewart: 11 minerals (358448).
George C. Steyskal: 132 insects (365151, 367047).
Dr. Bruce L. Stinchcomb: 4 gastropods (363942).
Dr. Carl W. Stock: 9 stromotoporoids (361309, 363999). Dr. H.-P. Stockwell: 150 weevils (365150).
Dr. Gary M. Stonedahl: 4 insects (363959).
Will Straube: 12 echinoderms, 9 mollusks, 55 worms (359475). Dr. Stephen A. Stricker: 5 worms (362804).
Dr. Leonell C. Strong, Jr.: 3 mollusks (362270).
Dr. Kenneth J. Sulak: 2 fish (343244).
Rev. James M. Sullivan: 32 leaf beetles (352826). Richard Swain: fossil sea cow skull cap (361000).
Dr. Neil R. Swanberg: 3 radiolarians (361701).
Dr. Keene Swett: 10 fossils (364371).
Clyde Swindell: 243 fossil vertebrates (361200, 363294). Tina Tabarini: 1 mollusk (363714).
Tadashi Tano: 1 insect (364774).
Dr. A. C. Tarjan: 100 worms (360504).
Dr. I. Barry Tarshis: 74,428 blackflies (365144).
Calvin E. Taylor: 11 fossil bird bones (360130, 362215). Dr. John Taylor: 9 echinoids (366297).
Dr. Malcolm Telford: 100 echinoids, asteroids, holothuroids (366141).
Dr. Harry ten Hove: 40 worms (365636).
Dr. Hjalmar Thiel: 350 worms (365511).
Betsy Trent Thomas: 1 bird (362379).
Dr. Donald B. Thomas, Jr.: 1 stink bug (363954).
William W. Thomas: 4 birds (360430).
Dr. Ronald Tripp: 31 trilobites (362222).
Jane Tucker: fossil seal tooth (362279).
Capt. Paul N. Turner: 32 worms (365649).
Dr. Paul Tuskes: 31 moths (362818, 363963).
William Ulrich: 4 minerals (361747).
Dr. Franco Urbani: 1 mineral (363403).
Dennis C. Van Hoose: 1,407 insects (367035).
Dr. Charles van Riper, III: mummified bird (364095).
Wouter I. Van Tichelen: 8 minerals (362902, 363327, 363415).
Oscar.Flores Villela: 3 lizards (358017).
Dr. Emily H. Vokes: See also Dr. Harold E. Vokes (362673).
Dr. Harold E. Vokes and Dr. Emily H. Vokes: 14 fossils and 1 silicon cast (362673).
Dr. Fritz Vollrath: 1 spider (362809).
Dieter Von Samson: 10 fossil crocodile remains (360364).
Grady Walker: 75 fossils (362312).
Dr. Hsien-Ming Wan: 8 minerals (361748).
Dr. Chia-Ching Wang: 2 echinoids (365630).
Dr. George F. Warner: 28 sponges (356953).
Dr. Anders Waren: 1 mollusk (354548).
Dr. Les Watling: 20 worms (365510).
Charles N. Watson, Jr.: 2 butterflies (365142).
Ronald Watson: 3 fishes (365257).

<<<Page: 312>>>

G. Thomas Watters: 1 mollusk (363275).
John Watters: fossil sperm whale tooth (359854).
Dr. W. A. Watters: 1 mineral (359960).
Dr. John S. Weaver, III: 2 caddisflies (367035).
David Wells: distal portion of a fossil fish crow (366296). Dr. Harry W. Wells: 160 anemones (231172).
James W. Westgate: 10 fossil vertebrates and cast of a fossil tusk
(364193, 365468).
Dr. Wilfried Westheide: 22 worms (363108, 365236).
David R. White: 124 water snakes (356079).
Dr. Wiedman: 16 fossils (364192).
Ronald S. Wieglus: 374 moths and wasps (362815, 367033, 367044, 367071). ‘
Frank Wilbur: 3 pieces of green colored fossil wood (364757).
Dr. Hans-Jurgen Wilke: 1 mineral (363328, exchange).
Gaye L. William: 1 mollusk (366314).
Dr. John Williams: 4 minerals (361099).
Dr. P. J. Williams: 2 minerals (361064).
Dr. Scott Wing: 1 spider (367054).
Eugenia I. Wright: 818 marine mollusks (362308).
Jill Yager: 1 coral (353354).
Dr. Isao Yagi: See also Dr. Naosuke Adachi (361792).
Dr. Tsunyi Yang: 10 brachiopods (365476).
Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson: 5 fossils (362501).
Dr. Daniel K. Young: 5 insects (365556).
Dr. Frank N. Young: 66 scarab beetles (349858).
Dr. Leonard Young: 25 marine mollusks (360309).
Gary G. Youngblood: 1 cotton rat (360635).
Victor Yount: 4 minerals (361804); 1 mineral (362903, exchange).
E. Yustiz: 4 wasps (365542).
Sven Zea S.: 19 sponges (341001, 359476, 361326).
Dr. Zhou Zhiyan: 11 fossil plants (366016, exchange).
Dr. Helmut Zibrowius: 7 echinoderms (358333).
Dr. A. Victor Zullo: 25 fossils (361422, 364521, 365344).

<<<Page: 313>>>

Ww 18)
Donors to the National Zoological Park
Donors of Financial Support
Anonymous
Thomas M. Mixer
Contribution in memory of Maryann Thomas Jason, Ben and. Josh Johnson
Dr. Charles M. Kirkpatrick
Nate Mack Elementary School (5th Grade Class) Dr. & Mrs. John Strauss
Robin Sturtz
Grants
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums The Chicago Zoological Society
Columbus Zoological Park Association
The Dallas Zoological Society
The Lincoln Park Zoological Society
The Overbrook Foundation
The Packard Foundation
World Wildlife Foundation
Wildlife Preservation Trust International, Inc.

<<<Page: 314>>>

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER Donors of Financial Support
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest N. Cory
Donors to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Facilities Development:
Tupper Foundation Earl Silas Tupper Research and Conference Center Mrs. Jean Niemier Gamez and Bolafios Islands
Educational Programs: Exxon Corporation Fellowship and Assistantship Program Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation Latin American Predoctoral Fellowships Special Educational Outreach Fund Ecology and Conservation Seminar for High School Students
Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates Nature Trail on Barro Colorado Island ; Tinker Foundation Graduate Field Course in Marine Ecology with University
of Panama
Research:
W. Alton Jones Foundation Alternatives to Destruction
Center for Field Research/Earthwatch Habitat Selection in Tropical Forest Birds
Center for Field Research/Earthwatch Tree Census on Barro Colorado Island ;
Atherton Seidell Fund STRI Library for microfiche aquisitions
Robert Silberglied Memorial Fund: Mr. and Mrs. Harry Silberglied Mrs. Margaret Vandoren

<<<Page: 315>>>

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART Donors of Financial Support $10,000 AND ABOVE
The Ahmanson Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. R. Stanton Avery
The Brown Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
Mr. and Mrs. Max M. Fisher
Robert J. Kieberg, Jr. and Helen C. Kleberg Foundation
The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.
The Masco Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman
The Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation
The Times Mirror Foundation
Miss Caroline R. Alexander
Alliance Capital Management Corp. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul Atlantic Richfield Company
Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Eli Broad
Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II
Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway ,
Mrs. Henry C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney
Mr. and Mrs. Irvin A. Levy
Mr. Howard W. Lipman
Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr. Mr. Alexander R. Mehran Metropolitan Life Foundation Barbara and Clifford L. Michel Foundation Miss Julienne M. Michel
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Mitchell Mrs. Nancy B. Wellin
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Tishman West Management Corporation Frederick R. Weisman Foundation of Art Nina A. Werblow Charitable Trust

<<<Page: 316>>>

Academic Arrangements, Inc. Mrs. James H. Beal
Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce City of Sterling Heights, Michigan Mrs. Robert Coryell
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Crichton Mr. and Mrs. William D. Dahling Mrs. Lucile Daum
Mrs. Elizabeth de Cuevas
Mr. and Mrs. Ahmet Ertegun
Mrs. and Mrs. Walter J. Fried Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Goldsmith-Perry Philanthropies, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mrs. Iola S. Haverstick
Mrs. and Mrs. Milton Hepner
Dr. and Mrs. David Jacknow
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall Mrs. James D. Klingbeil
Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Landsman
Mrs. Harry Lenart
Dr. and Mrs. Irving H. Leopold Mr. Warner Leroy
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manoogian Mr. and Mrs. William D. Mayer Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Michigan Foundation for the Arts Mrs. John Miller
Mobil Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Murray
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman
Mr. amd Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer
Mr. Milton Petrie
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Poplack Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautboard
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Reed
Mrs. Constance C. Richardson Mrs; John Robinson
Mr. and Mrs. John Rosekrans, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Schnitzer Mrs. Germain Seligman
Mr. George C. Seybolt
Mrs. Mary-Leigh Smart
Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier Mr. and Mrs. Jerry I. Speyer
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig

<<<Page: 317>>>

Taubman Company, Inc.
Touche Ross & Co.
Mrs. Paul L. Wattis
Mrs. Marcia E. Weisman
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer Mr. Leslie H. Wexner
Mr. and Mrs. Dave H. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey
Mr. and Mrs. C. Bagley Wright
Mrs. Anna Bing Arnold
Atlantic Richfield Company Foundation Mrs. Alice O'Neil Avery
Mr. Louis C. Baker
Mrs. Courtney M. Benoist
Mrs. Marion W. Berger
Mrs. F. Henry Berlin
Mrs. Edna S. Beron
Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Biggs Mrs. Peter S. Bing
Mr. and Mrs. David Bogle
Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton Mr. and Mrs. Howard B. Camden Mrs. Montgomery Carter
Mr. William N. Copley
Ms. Sara T. Davies
Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe Mr. Oscar de la Renta
Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis W. Douglas, Jr. Equitable Life Assurance Society Mrs. George R. Fink
Mrs. Charles T. Fisher, III
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Fleischman Mr. and Mrs. William Cc. Ford
Mr. Xavier Fourcade
Mrs. Robert A. Fowler
Miss Elizabeth H. Fuller
Mr. Michael A. Futterman
Mr. Arnold Glimcher
Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goldberg Helen Hall
Dr. Armand Hammer
Mrs. Augusta Jacobson Hoiles
Mr. Thomas Carr Howe
Mr. Campbell James
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Kemper Mr. Tibor Kerekes, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Charles Kessler
Mr. and Mrs. Henry A. Kissinger

<<<Page: 318>>>

Mr. Budd Levinson
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney Dr. and Mrs. Jerome Mark
Mr. and Dr. M. Miskinis
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart G. Moldaw ~Benjamin Moore and Company Mr. Jack Nash
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oroshnik Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Peck Mrs. Cornelia Perry
Mr. and Mrs. William Pitt Mrs. Herbert Polacheck
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Purcell Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Pustilnik Mr. and Mrs. John Rakolta, Jr. Miss Catherine G. Roberts Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, III Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob Mrs. Ednah Root
Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal, Jr. Lady Mary Rothermere
The Mark Rothko Foundation, Inc. Mrs. Ross Roy
Mr. and Mrs. Abbott Schlain Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Schuman Shaklee Corporation
Mrs. Stuart R. Shamberg
Mrs. Charles P. Slater
Mrs. Nelson E. Smyth
Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens Mr.and Mrs. John J. Sullivan Mr. and Mrs. Albert Susman Nickie and Harold Tanner
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Taubman Mr. Paul Thiry
Mrs. Hooper Truettner
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Tufo
Mrs. Harold Uris
Mrs. Barry Wagner Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein Mr. Keith S. Wellin
Mrs. Victor Wertz
Mr. Henry Wade White Elizabeth R. Williams
Mr. John Wilmerding
Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward Mr. William W. Wotherspoon Mr. and Mrs. Thew Wright
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Zurkowski
i>) Ht wh

<<<Page: 319>>>

Mrs. Richard F. Alden
Mrs. E. Ross Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Auerbach Dr. and Mrs. Donald C. Austin Mrs. Samuel Ayers, III Mr. Richard Brown Baker Mr. W. N. Banks
Mrs. Norma Barker, Jr. Mrs. Joyce Barnes
Mrs. Daniel N. Belin Mrs. Lionel Bell
Mr. and Mrs. Philip I. Berman Mr. and Mrs. William Bernton Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry Mrs. Lise M. Besthoff
Mr. Sewell C. Biggs
Mrs. Alvin L. Blume
Miss Florence M. Blume
Mrs. Harry Bond
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman
Mrs. Sidney Brody
Mrs. Gene Burton
Mrs. John Caldwell
Mr. and Mrs. Stanford Calderwood Dr. and Mrs. John M. Carroll Mrs. Edward W. Carter
Dr. and Mrs. Raul Eduardo Chao Mr. and Mrs. John C. Chester Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen
Mrs. Chisholm Cole
Mrs. Earle Crandall
Mrs. David E. Davis
Micheal and Dudley Del Balso Mrs. Irwin J. Deutch
Mr. Edward Duffy
Mrs. Dorothy H. Dunitz
Mr. and Mrs. Barney A. Ebsworth Mrs. Beatrice L. Elkin
Mrs. Robert F. Erburu
Mr. and Mrs. Alex Etkin
Mrs. Robert L. Farmer
Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Fisher Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Lee Fleming Mr. and Mrs. Norman Foster
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Fraad
Mrs. Helena Fraser
Mrs. Tully Friedman
Mrs. F. Daniel Frost
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo Geraldine Gibbs
Mrs. Ross Gilbert
Mr. and Mrs. Yale Ginsburg

<<<Page: 320>>>

Mrs. Mrs. Mr.
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
Mrs. Ms. Mrs. Dr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mrs. Mr.
James L. Goodwin Mason Long Gordon William T. Gossett B. Thomas Green Robert S. Greenbaum Arthur N. Greenberg Bernard Greenberg Elyse S. Grinstein Gerald Grinstein and Mrs. Gerold M. Grodsky and Mrs. Robert M. Halperin and Mrs. Arnold Herstand Alexander P. Hixon Edwin Hoffman and Mrs. Siavosh Honari Henry P. Hoppin and Mrs. William W. Howells Earle M. Jorgensen and Mrs. Martin A. Kellman
Kennedy Galleries, Inc.
Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Miz. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Ms. Mr. Mrs Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mrs. DY. Mrs.
and Mrs. William Kieschnick Philip J. Koen
and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod and Mrs. Nat Korash
and Mrs. David W. Kornblatt Sylvia Krause
Naresh Kripalani Richard P. Kughn
Roger M. Kyes
and Mrs. Ronald S. Lauder and Mrs. Herbert. C. Lee Lewis E. Lehrman
Irene Chapellier Little and Mrs. Harold O. Love Laurence Lovett
C. Richard MacGrath
and Mrs. John D. Mack
and Mrs. Peter L. Malkin Bert B. M&louf
and Mrs. Tom Marsh
and Mrs. William Marsteller Nan Tucker McEvoy
Eileen McKeon Roderick A. McManigal
and Mrs. Stephen Mead Richard Milhender
Hope Ridings Miller
and Mrs. Henry Millon
and Mrs. A. A. Minowitz Ralph Miskin
and Mrs. Hugh Mullan Franklin D. Murphy
Annalee G. Newman
and Mrs. Edward N. Ney

<<<Page: 321>>>

The Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Dri Mrs. Dr. Mr. Mr. Ms.
Nusbaums
William E. O'Reilly and Mrs. Calvin W. Odom Gerald Oppenheimer Lynda Palevsky
and Mrs. David B. Pall Henry Pearlman
and Mrs. R. F. Penido Charles R. Penney
John B. Pierce, Jr. Jeffie Pike
Anna Pliego
Mrs. Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mx. Mr. Mr. Mr
Mrs. Die Mrs. Mr. Mr. Misi Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr.
Cynthia H. Polsky John Portman, Jr. Robert E. Power, Jr. James A. Rawley and Mrs. Dana M. Raymond and Mrs. Samuel Robert Trevor C. Roberts and Mrs. Donald J. Robinson Paul Romanelli and Mrs. Mark K. Rosenfeld Alford P. Rudnick
and Mrs. Derald H. Ruttenberg and Mrs. Herbert D. Schimmel
and Mrs. Sherwin Schreier and Mrs. Douglas Schubot and Mrs. Arthur H. Schultz
Miss Ethel Redner Scull
Maryanna G. Shaw
and Mrs. Robert Silver Nathan Smooke
Ira Spanierman
Sam Speigel
and Mrs. John R. Stevenson Leonard H. Straus
and Mrs. Peter W. Stroh and Mrs. Emanuel Sulkes Susan Swig
and Mrs. Raymond J. Syufy
Phyllis A. Thompson
Mrs. Mrs. Masie Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
Barbara B. Toole
William Cc. Tost
and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend and Mrs. Raymond S. Troubh and Mrs. Richard W. Tucker Duane A. Wakeham
Hudson D. Walker
William C. Wallstein
and Mrs. William B. Warner and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman and Mrs. Max Wasserman Ruth M. Westphal
Harry H. Wetzel
Robert R. Williams

<<<Page: 322>>>

Mrs. Manville H. Abramson
M. Bernard Aidinoff
Dr. and Mrs. Roger Ajluni
Mr. Jay W. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Hale R. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Allesee Dr. and Mrs. Hernan Alvarez, Jr. Dr. Lourdes V. Andaya
Mr. and Mrs. Derby F. Anderson Mrs. Wendell W. Anderson
Mr. Adolphus Andrews, Jr.
Mrs. Patricia Arden
Mr... ‘and Mrs... DaviduiB« Arnold): Jr
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Ash
Mrs. Lucille B. Askin
Mr. and Mrs. David Auerbach E. Loren Aufdenkamp
Mr. John Aument
Thea Bacon :
Mr. Thomas R. Baird
Mr. and Mrs. David Bakalar Mr. Henry De Forest Baldwin Mrs. Will Barnet
Norma B. Bartman
Ms. Lola Bauer
Mrs. Norma J. Baumgold
Mr. and Mrs. Bogdan Baynert Mr. and Mrs. Gifford R. Beal Toni Beauchamp
Mr. and Mrs. B. G. Bechhoefer Mr. and Mrs. Sherman Becker Dr. Susanne E. Bedell
Dr. and Mrs. K. T. Belotelkin Dr. and Mrs. James S. Benedict Mr. Jonathan A. Berg
Mr. Sidney L. Bergin
Mr. Mandell L. Berman
Mr. Norman Beznos
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney F. Biddle Mrs. Marcia Bielfield
Mr. and Mrs. H. Glenn Bixby Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence D. Blair Mr. and Mrs. Martin Blanck Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Blinken
Mr. and Mrs:: Donald. J:..0 Bortz, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Bramhall Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Braun Mr. William Breslan
Mr. John L. Bricker
Dr. and Mrs. William J. Brigg Mr. William Brinton

<<<Page: 323>>>

Mrs. Victor Brogna
Mr... .eand Mrs. .AGenUr Ha Brooks, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. H. Theodore Brosch Mr. and Mrs. David R. C. Brown Mrs. Frederick Brown
Mrs. Jeffrey R. Brown
Mr. Peter A. Brown
Dr. and Mrs. Richard M. Brown Miss Doris Bry
Patricia Taylor Buckley
Linda Hale Bucklin
Mrs. J. Lawrence Buell, Jr.
Mr. Michael R. Burdett
Mr. Christopher Burge
Ms. Patricia Hill Burnett
Mrs. Renee Burrows
Mr. and Mrs. Preston Butcher
Mrs. Samuel C. Butler
Mr. and Mrs. Louis W. Cabot
Mrs. Lewis P. Cabot
Mr. and Mrs. John Wagstaff Callahan Mr. John Cc. Callan
Mr. and Mrs. David J. Carlson Mrs. Walter Carpeneti
Mr. Leo Castelli
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Clark Mr. William K. Coblentz
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Collier
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Collins Mrs. Theodore G. Congdon
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Constable Edith Bentley Cook
Mrs. Donald Ccok
Mrs. Ransom M. Cook
Mr. and Mrs. Francis L. Coolidge Mr. Ted Cooper
Mr. and Mrs. F. duPont Cornelius Mr. Gardner Cowles
Mz... and, Mrs..Earle M. Craiq,) Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Keith Crain
Mr. and Mrs. David Crane
Mr. Dale Crichton
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Crocker Mrs). Burill B.. Crohn
Mrs. Susan L. Cullman
Ms. Dauna R. Currie
Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger Miss Bernice Davidson
Mr. Mark Davis
Mrs. Mary M. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Day
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth W. Cunningham, Jr.

<<<Page: 324>>>

Mrs. Mr.
Count and Countess Philippe de
Robert M. Day and Mrs. Stanley R. Day
Christiane P. DeBord Boyd De Brossard
Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.The Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.
and Mrs. Charles de Limur Marcia Mercedes de Medina and Mrs. Jerome Debs
and Mrs. James S. Desilva Robert T. Devlin
and Mrs. Martin Diamond
Dietz Corporation
and Mrs. Richard P. Doerer Ray Dolby
and Mrs. Wilfred B. Doner
and Mrs. George Doubleday, II Laurence F. Du Mouchelle James F. Duffy, Jr.
and Mrs. Frederick Dupree, Jr.
Eastman Memorial Foundation
Mrs.
Marriner Eccles
Golda Edinburg
and Mrs. George P. Edmonds, Jr.
Delia F. Ehrlich
Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mrs Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mrs. Mr.
Stanley Eichelbaum
Andre Emmerich
and Mrs. George M. Endicott and Mrs. John V. Erickson Jimmy Ernst
Edward Estreito
Hilda R. Ettenheimer
and Mrs. Peter Fairbanks Howard Farber Burton D. Farbman
and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder Richard L. Feigen
Stuart P. Feld
Hortense F. Feldblum
and Mrs. Morris Fenkell John H. Ferguson
and Mrs. Michael Fielding
Robert and Julie Finley Fischbach Gallery Association
Mr. Mr. Ms. Mrs.
and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher George H. Fitch
Audrey Flack
Mortimer Fleishhacker
Joan H. Fleming Mary Annette S. Flint
Mr. Mrs. Mr. The Mr.
and Mrs. James Flood
Frank W. Ford, Jr.
and Mrs. Frederick D. Forsch Fountain Gallery of Art
and Mrs. Daniel D. Fraad
Boissieu

<<<Page: 325>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Frankel
Mrs. Eleanor K. Freed
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Freeman Mrs. Richard D. Freemon
Mrs. John S.French
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic S. Freund Mr. and Mrs. A. Alan Friedberg Mr. and Mrs. Robert Friedlander Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Friedman
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon Fuller
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic Gardner Ainslee A. Gardner
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene A. Gargaro, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Richard Gargiulo General Cinema Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Germack, Jr. Mrs. William Gershenson
Mrs. Edward A. Gill
Mr. Howard Gilman
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Glen
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Glen
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Glover
J. Whitney Godwin
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Golden Mr. and Mrs. Richard Goldman Lawrence J. Goldrich
Mr. and Mrs. Abner Goldstone Mr. and Mrs. Aron S. Gordon Rosalind E. Gorin
Mr. Alan L. Gornick
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Goss
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Goss, II Mr. Charles M. Grace
Mr. James Graham
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Graham, Jr. Mrs. Hugh J. Grant
Ms. Juliane Greenwalt
Mrs. Fred M. Greiner
Mr. Charles R. Grigg
Mr. Lee Herbst Gruhn
Mrs. E. V. Grunbaum.
Mr. Robert S. Gunderson
Mr. Walter A. Haas, Jr.
Mr. Philip J. Hahn
Mrs. Samuel Hamburger
Mrs. David Handleman
Deborah R. Hanley
Mrs. B. H. Hardaway, III
Mr. and Mrs. Neil E. Harlan Mrs. Peggy Joy Harman
Dr. and Mrs. Reginald Harnett Dr. Susan E. Harold
Mrs. Edward T. Harrison
Mrs. John C. Harrison

<<<Page: 326>>>

Mr. and Mrs. E. Jan Hartmann
Mr. and Mrs. Neil T. Haslett
Ms. Barbara Whipple Heilman
Mr. and Mrs. Scott R. Heldford Mrs. Stephen W. Heller
Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Henritzy Mr. and Mrs. Paul Henry
Mr. Robert Hering
Col. and Mrs. Conrad J. Herlick Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Hill
Dr. and Mrs. Robert K. Hillier Mr. and Mrs. Lee Hills
Mr. and Mrs. Reuben W. Hills, III Mrs. Oveta Culp Hobby
Dr.,, and Mrs. T. Fs Hogan. wr. Mrs. Peter Holbrook
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay Mr. and Mrs. Peter Hopkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Horn, III Mrs. Carol B. Horowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Grdale Bob Horowitz Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz Mrs. Leonard J. Horwich
Mr. and Mrs. Reagan Houston
Mrs. Edward A. Howard
Mr. John K. Howat
Mrs. and Mrs. Joseph L. Hudson, Jr. Mrs. J. Stewart Hudson
Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome W. Hull
Mr. John S. Hummer
Mr. and Mrs. James Humphry, III Mrs. Robert Hunter, Jr.
Margaret G. Huntington
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hynes
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Iselin
J. Atwood Ives
Mr. Alexander Jackson
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Jacob Mr. and Mrs. Earle R. Jacobs Linda B.Janovic
Mr. and Mrs. David Jensen
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Jolliffe Mr. Forrest L. Jones
Mrs. Graham E. Jones
Raymond F. Jones
Mr. and Mrs. John Lowell Jones Mr. and Mrs. Edward Jonna
Mr. and Mrs. Louis I. Kane
Mr. Samuel Katz
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Katzman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann Dr. Marvis Kelsey

<<<Page: 327>>>

Mrs. Robert E. Kelso
Mr. William T. Kemper
The David Wood Kemper Memorial Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Kempner Elizabeth T. Kennan
Coe Kerr Gallery, Inc.
Mr. Tarek Kettaneh
Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering
Mrs. Dorothy R. Kidder
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Kimball Mr. and Mrs. Gordon F. Kingsley Mr. and Mrs. Leonard E. Kingsley Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Klein
Diana D. Knowles
Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Koenigsberg Mr. and Mrs. James C. Kokas Norman Kosann
Miss Antoinette Kraushaar
Mr. Henry R. Kravis
Mr. Peter T. Kross
Mrs. Nancy Kruger
Mrs. Geraldine S. Kunstadter Barbara B. Kurson
Mrs. Richard Kux
Linda Noe Laine
Mrs. Nanette L. Laitman
Mr. and Mrs. Condie Lamb
Miss Lillian Lambrechts
M.J. and Cecile Cc. Landay
Mr. Robert Landson
Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane
Mrs. Richard E. Lang
Marian R. Larkin
Mrs. Marion Whatley Law Virginia M. Lawrence
Dr. and Mrs. Antonio A. Laxa Mrs. Rodney Layton
Mr. Raymond J. Learsy
Mr. Rensselaer W. Lee
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Levin
Mrs. Leonard Levine
Mrs. Marcia D. Levine
Mr. and Mrs. Alan D. Levy Maryon Davies Lewis
Mr. Orme Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Dr. Majorie Lewisohn
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Lifton
Mrs. Ann J. Light
Mr. and Mrs. R. P. Linderman, III Dr. {and Mrs: Morris J... Lapnick Mary Ann H. Livens
Mr. Carl D. Lobell
Mrs. Renee Logan

<<<Page: 328>>>

Mrs. Karen A.G. Loud Mrs. Madeleine M. Low Grace M. Lowe
Mr. and Mrs. James Ludwig
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Luhn Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes Mr. Carl Mac Petrie
Mrs. Maximillian Mader
Mr. Robert M. Mahowald
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Marcus Mrs. James S. Marcus
Marlborough Gallery, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Maron
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Marra
Mrs. Barbara M. Marshall
Mrs. Nini Tobin Martin
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Maveety Maxwell Galleries
Mrs. Robert B. Mayer
Mr. and Mrs. David H. McAlpin Mrs. Susan McClatchy
Mrs. Eugene McDermott
Mr. Jay D. McEvoy
Mr. Alan McFarland
Francis D. McGuire
Dr. and Mrs. J. Wallace McMeel Mrs. Nancy J. McNear
Grete Meilman
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Mein Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed Mr. Frederick A. Melhado
Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Meltzer Mr. and Mrs. Frank Melville Mr. and Mrs. Robert Menschel Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam Drs. Paul and Laura Mesaros Mrs. Vaughan B. Meyer
Mrs. Jane B. Meyerhoff
Mr. Samuel Michaels
Dr. and Mrs. Mathew S. Mickiewicz Mr. and Mrs. Martin Miller Mrs. Barbara B. Millhouse
Mr. and Mrs. David Mirvish
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Monrad Mrs. Charles F. Montgomery
Mr. and Mrs. David T. Morgenthaler, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Morley Diane Lynn Morris
Mr. and Mrs. Mervin Morris
Mr. Peter M. Morris
Justice and Mrs. Stanley Mosk
Mr. and Mrs. George Muellich Mrs. Lillian R. Muss Mr. Raymond D. Nasher
dial

<<<Page: 329>>>

Ms. Rita Nederlander
Mr. and Mrs. John U. Nef
Mrs. William Negley
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger Mrs. Sunne Savage Neuman
Mr. and Mrs. William Nitze Mr. Charles E. Noble
Mr. and Mrs. H. Roderick Nordell
Mrs. P. R. Norman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Norton Dr. and Mrs. Kevin O'Donnell Mr. and Mrs. Calvin W. Odom Mrs. Janice C. Oresman
Ms. Mary T. Osborn
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Osgood Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Owens Mr. Peter J. Owens
Mr. Christopher A. Pantaleoni Dr. and Mrs. Emanuel Papper Pamela R. Peabody
Mr. and Mrs. Donald L. Penny Mr. Klaus G. Perls
Mr. and Mrs. E. Lee Perry
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Pesavento Dr. and Mrs. Michael J. Petite Mrs. Donald A. Petrie
Mr. and Mrs. Gifford Phillips Mr. and Mrs. Laughlin Phillips Mr. Harry L. Pierson
Mr. and Mrs. Ned L. Pines
Mr. Peter G. Platt
Mrs. Rita McNamara Pleet
Dr. and Mrs. Hollis Plimpton Mr. and Mrs. Saul Poliak
Mrs. David Pollack
Mr. and Mrs. William Postar Mr. and Mrs. Meyer Potamkin Mr. and Mrs. John A. Pritzker Mr. and Mrs. Leland Prussia Mrs. Rene S. Rabinowitz
Mrs. Barrie Ramsay
Judith S. Randal
Mr. and Mrs. Dale Rands
Mrs. Elizabeth Beach Rea
Mr. and Mrs. Peter S. Redfield Dr. and Mrs. John D. Relfe Mrs. John P. Renshaw
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Resknick Alice Richmond
Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley Mrs. Anne D. Rishel
Mr. and Mrs. Lester Robbins Mrs. Leanne B. Roberts
Sylvia Robins

<<<Page: 330>>>

Mrs.
and Mrs. Alan S. Robinson Christine B. Robitzek David Rockefeller
Lauren Rogers Museum of Art
Dr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Dr. Mr. Mrs.
and Mrs. Michail E. Rollins and Mrs. Daniel Rose
and Mrs. Benjamin H. Rose, III and Mrs. Adolph Rosekrans
and Mrs. Peter Rosekrans Victor J. Rosen Robert M. Rosenberg
Shirley S. Rosenberg
Toby Rosenblatt
Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.
Ronald L. Rossetti
and Mrs. Jeffrey R. Roth and mrs. William M. Roth and Mrs. Irving A. Rubin
Constance B. Runge
Mrs. Mr.
Madeleine H. Russell and Mrs. Thomas W. Russell, Jr.
Roxanne M. Sanderson
Harry A... Saxe, Jim:
Judith Schaffer
Ivan Schatten
and Mrs. Garret Schenck and Mrs. James Scheuer
. and Mrs. James Schilt Albert E. Schlesinger
Norma H. Schlesinger
Mrs. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs.
Jo Anne Schneider
Ann McGovern Schneiner
and Mrs. Robert Schoelkopf and Mrs. Thomas Schoenith and Mrs. Morton L. Scholnick and Mrs. Leslie J. Schreyer Jacob Schulman
and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz Richard J. Schwartz
Samuel Schwartz
Suzanne Roy Sears
Mr. Mr. Mrs.
and Mrs. Walter Seid James Seitz Carl L. Selden and Mrs. William Shannon Mickey Shapiro and Mrs. Frederic A. Sharf and Mrs. John Shaw and Mrs. Alger Shelden Allen Shelden, III and Mrs. Peter Sheldon Peter N. Sherrill and Mrs. Douglas Shorenstein and Mrs. Walter Shorenstein and Mrs. Gail T. Sidlek

<<<Page: 331>>>

io 2)
Mr. Mrs. Dhan Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Ms. Ms. DE. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs Mr. Mrs. Mis’ Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs.
Mr. Mr.
Jacob Y. Terner,
Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Mr. Dir. Mrs. Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Dr. Mrs. Masi. Di. Dis A Mr.
and Mrs. Walter
Gilbert B. Silverman E. Simmons
Edward L.Sleeper Helen Farr Sloan
and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs.
Stephen Sloan George Slocum Marshall Small Richard Mayo Smith
Lawrence M.C. Smith
Marilyn Janet W. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. Anne F. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs.
Irving Stenn,
and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. Philip and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs.
Smith
Solinger
Arthur K. Solomon Ralph Sorenson Dean Spanos
Ernest P. Spear Spencer
Peter B. Spivak William Steen Michael Stein Robert E. Steinberg Jr.
S. Sidney Stoneman Bayard T. Storey James M. Storey A. Straus
George Strombos
David A. Stulberg Paul Sullivan David J. Supino
Henry W. Suydam, Jr. Joan McLellan Tayler
and Mrs. Michael
Kenneth Taylor A. Taylor M.D.
Eugene Victor Thaw
and Mrs.
L. Harrison Thayer, II
Nancy B. Tieken Lydia M. Titcomb
and Mrs.
John E. Toole
Margery B. Townsend
and Mrs. and Mrs.
Thomas H. Townsend Michael E.F. Treacy
Patricia Trenton
Louise BLALOCE George
Helen S.
and Mrs. Joseph
Esteban
and Mrs. and Mrs. Abbot W.
Talbot Trigg
Trumbull
Te. Trumbull
Tucker
Robert Tufo
A. Vance, Jr.
Vicente
Arthur Victor Charles H. Vortriede Vose
Miss Lois Wagner

<<<Page: 332>>>

Mrs. Norton Walbridge
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur S. Waldstein Mrs. David Wallace
Anne H. Wallace
Mr. Felix M. Warburg
Mrs. Joan Washburn
Mr. and Mrs. Cameron Waterman Ms. Barbara Wayman
Mr. and Mrs. Theo R. Weiler
Mr. Joseph J. Weiner
Mr. Efrem Weinreb
Dr. Harold P. Weintraub
Mr. Maurice Weir
Mrs. Rudolph W. Weitz
Mrs. Elaine G. Weitzen
Mr. and Mrs.Peter C. Welch
Mrs. Karl L.Wente
Dr. Frederick and Rev. Barbara N. Whitcomb Mrs. Suzanne C. White
Mr. John Whitehead
Mrs. Frances J. Whitney
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Wick
Elaine Wilde
Mrs. Patricia O'Connell Williams Mr. and Mrs. James H. Wineman Mrs. Isadore Winkelman
Mr. James L. Winokur
Mrs. Enid S. Winslow
Mr. Marion.J. Wise, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley W. Wojtalik Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Wollenzin, Jr. Mrs. Lois E. Womer
Mr. and Mrs. Francis Woods
Mr. and: Mrs. -. Ho Wultimeier,. LIL Mrs. C. Lacoppiban Wyers
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Yaffe
Mrs. Edward J. York
Mr. Richard York
Mr. and-Mrs. William J. Young, Jr. Mrs. Guri Lie Zeckendor£f
Mr. Jerome Zipkin
5) ie) \O

<<<Page: 333>>>

io OTK
CENTER FOR ASIAN ART FREER GALLERY OF ART and the ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Donors of Financial Support
Harry N. Abrams, Inc.
Mr. Franz Bader (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)
Clark Endowment Fund
Dr. James S. Devine
Mr. Peter Drucker
Embassy of Japan
Mr. Paul Josephson
Ms. Beverly Lang
Dr. Thomas Lawton (John A. Pope Memorial Fund)
Orientations
Mrs. John A. Pope (John A. Pope Memorial Fund)
The Rockefeller Foundation
Donors to the Collection
Anonymous: In Memory of Collector and Connoisseur Helen Dalling Ling
Mrs. Joe M. Blumberg
Mr. John M. Crawford
Mr. Stanley D. Fishman
Mrs. Garnet Hulings
Mr. Henry Noel
Ambassador and Mrs. George McGhee Dr. and Mrs. Ignacio Rodriguez
Hon. and Mrs. Hugh Scott
Mr. F. B. Vanderhoef, Jr.
Donors to the Study Collection
Mr. Alfred Bodian
Charlottesville/Albemarle Foundation for the Encouragement of the Arts
Mrs. Nelly Ducommun
Mr. Stanley D. Fishman
Mrs. Edna L. Flapan
Mr. Dean Frasche
Mr. Joel Hettger
Mrs. David H. Karrick
Mrs. Henry Noel
Mrs. Hortense S. Sacks
Hon. and Mrs. Hugh Scott

<<<Page: 334>>>

Donors to the Library
Dr. O. P. Agrawal Mr. An Kwo-cheung
American Institute of Indian Studies
Dr. Esin Atil
Dr. Milo C. Beach
Dr. Arthur Beale
Mr. W. Thomas Chase IIT
Ms. Louise A. Cort
Mrs. Helen Dietterich
Embassy of India
Mrs. Edna L. Flapan
Fondation Singer-Polignaa
Dr. ShenvGonvYn, Eu
Galerie Janette Ostier
Mr. Lawrence E. Gichner
Miss Carol Hammond
Kappy and Marshall Hendricks
Hsiung Shih Publishing Company
Mr. Akey C. F. Hung International Cultural Society of Korea
The Japan Foundation
Japan Society
Mr. Haruyuki Kaneko
Mr. and Mrs. Murray Lebwohl
Dr. and Mrs. James Ling
Dr. Glenn D. Lowry
Mrs. Alastair Bradley Martin
Miss Janet Murray
National Commission for Islamic Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
Oriental Gallery
Mrs. John A. Pope
Mr. Frank Joseph Shulman.
Mrs. Betty J. Stacey (In Memorv of Comdr. Walter MacWilliams) ° Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Sze
Utah Museum of Fine Arts
The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. B. Wilding-White
Mrs. Elizabeth Kelly Wyatt

<<<Page: 335>>>

Donors to the Collection
Anonymous
Junichi Arai
A.S.L. Industries
Tony Atkin
Holger Backstrom
Florence Barnes
Estate of Elizabeth Steward Barnwell] Ernest Baron
Baychar
Michele Beiny
Bergdorf Goodman
Harry Blomster
Janet Bowers Brothwell Brunschwig & Fils
Dr. Tilmann Buddensieg Thomas Carnase
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Chazen Christofle
Mrs. Carl Cohen
Rosemary Corroon
Mary Cramer
Lisbet Daehlin
Domberger KG
Louise Dushkin
Joost Elffers
Janet Feitelson
Dr. J. William Fielding Roger A. Flynn
Mrs. Savage Crowell Frieze, Jr. Gallery 9]
Eduardo Garrido
Dr. Roger Gerry
Cora Ginsburg
Dorothy and Stephen Globus Elizabeth Haynes
Estate of Lydia Bush-Brown Head Mr. and Mrs. Maxime Hermanos Helena Hernmarck
Margery Howe
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Jacobs Jacques Jugeat, Inc.
Danny Kauffman
Theodore Krieg
Jack Lenor Larsen
Benedict Lissim
Mrs. Simon Lissim
Bo Ljundberg
Vera Maxwell
Mrs. Donald McBride, Jr. David Revere McFadden

<<<Page: 336>>>

Mono-Seibel
Mrs. William Greer Nagle
Steven Nagy
New York State Historical Association Elizabeth Gordon Norcross
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger Mattina Proctor
Nathalie du Pasquier Pennypacker Mills Porzellanfabrik Friesland Bentz KG Charles Richardson, Jr.
Kit Robbins
John Rombola
Rosenthal Glas und Porzellan AG Elizabeth Roth
Mrs. Joseph Schillinger
Cynthia Schira
Marcella Schroeder
Roger Selchow
George Sowden
Toni Stabile
Dorwin L. Starr
Marianne Strengel]
Dorothy S. Teegen
Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation Mrs.E.T. Uldall
Kate Urquhart
Lella and Massimo Vignell1 Carola T. Walton
Dorothy Warren
Piera Watkins
Johannes Wellman
Mrs. John Hay Whitney
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph O. Williams Wiscasset Public Library

<<<Page: 337>>>

[wey
The Vincent Astor Foundation
The J. M. Kaplan Fund
Moét & Chandon
New York State Council on the Arts Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Ross
Estate of Eleanor B. Sachs
Louis Vuitton FA
Mrs. William B. Boyd The James Smithson Society
Mrs. Helen W. Buckner
Helena Rubinstein Foundation Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund The Wellington Foundation, Inc.
Alitalia
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Altschul American Illustration, Inc. AT & T Foundation
Channing Weinberg & Co. Inc. The First Boston Corporation Mr. and Mrs. William Goodman Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.
The Napier Co.
The Pfizer Foundation, Inc. Remy Martin Amerique
Mr. and Mrs. Warren Shapleigh The Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation

<<<Page: 338>>>

Anonymous
Avon Products, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Brandwein
Bristol-Myers Company
Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.
Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.
Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton
Coach Leatherware Company, Inc.
The Condé Nast Publications Inc.
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. Mrs. John A. Corroon
The Howard Gilman Foundation
J. Gurwin Foundation, Inc.
International Business Machines Corporation Johnson & Higgins
Klebanow Family Philanthropic Fund/Jewish Communal Fund of NY Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.
Neuberger & Berman
The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Lillian Nassau Palitz
Phibro-Saloman, Inc.
Philip Morris Incorporated
Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.
Mrs. Stephen R. Seiter
Mrs. Celia Siegel
Mrs. Ben J. Slutsky
Solomon Equities
Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund/New York Community Trust Mrs. Marietta Tree
The Armand G. Erpf Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Reginald Auchincloss Mr. H. W. Broido, dr.
Miss Quintina Colio
Mr. A. Theodore Dell
Estée Lauder, Inc.
R. H. Macy & Co.
The Helen R. and Harold C. Mayer Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Edward Munves, Jr. Mr. Christian Rohlfing
Mr. Matthew Schutz
Tiffany & Co.
Wine Institute
ws) Wo 7

<<<Page: 339>>>

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN Donors to the Collection
American Academy and Institute of Arts and Ne Hassam and Speicher Purchase Fund
Anonymous
Mr. Robert Baxter
Miss Patricia T. Forrester
Mr. Joseph Henderson
Mrs. Olga Hirshhorn
Mr. Matt Phillips
Arnold Ronnebeck and Ursula Moore
Mr. Miles Rubin
Salander-O'Reilly Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. William Tewles
Donors of Financial Support
Art Lovers League, Baltimore, Maryland Max Bennett James Smithson Society

<<<Page: 340>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART Donors of Financial Support
Anonymous
Cafritz Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Curtin David Driskell
Friends of the National Museum of African Art Stanley -N. Goff
Hon. S. I. Hayakawa
Hechinger Foundation
David Lloyd Kreeger
Vera G. List
Richard A. Long
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Marcus
Beatrice C. Mayer
Frank E. Moss
Helen Neufeld
Robert H. Nooter
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich Mr. and Mrs. Milton Rosenthal Gustave Schindler
Shell Companies Foundation
Walter E. Washington
Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates Nicholas Xervas
Donors to the Collection
Dr. and Mrs. Philip C. Cohan Marc Leo Felix
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Flach Mrs. Evelyn A. J. Hall
Dr. and Mrs. Jeffrey S. Hammer Mrs. Eleanor Reis Henry
Mrs. Barbara G. Martin
Robert S. McNamara
National Museum of Liberia
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Nooter Mr. John N. Reis
Mr. Paul A. Reis
Frieda and Milton F. Rosenthal Gustave and Franyo Schindler Roy and Sophie Sieber
Dr. William H. Stewart
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Syrop
Lee Williams
wa Les)

<<<Page: 341>>>

National Museum of American Art Donors to the Collection
Allied Stores Corporation Jeannot R. Barr
Mrs. John A. Benton Berry-Hill Galleries
Dan Biferie
Howard Bond
Mortimer Brandt
Jeffrey R. Brown
Mrs. Claude Buck
Arthur Cohen
Container Corporation of America Barbara Crane
Robert L. Drapkin
Werner Drewes
Karen Erla
Feeley Grandchildren's Trust Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Feld Melvin and H. Alan Frank Fuji Photo Film USA, Inc. Albert Green
Susumu Hada
Richard M. Hollander
Mrs. Jane Holzer
Mary and Richard Isaacson J. Willis Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Leftwich D. Kimbrough
Amy Loeserman Klein
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Koffler Mary Fife Lansing
Mr. and Mrs. Murray Lebwohl Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Lehman Jean S. Lighton
Dr. Robert Loeffler
Adele Lozowick
Duncan McCosker
Frank J. McKeown
Lefferts Mabie
Margaret MacElfatrick
Mrs. Juliet Man Ray
Philip Michelson
Marc Montefusco
Alice H. Moore
Alfred T. Morris, Jr. Alfred T. Morris, Sr.
David Morse
Cornelia Jane Motheral
Estate of Mrs. Frances E. Musgrave
Dr. Paul A. Nelson
Dr. Lewis Obie
Arthur Ollman
Lynn M. Pearlstein
Reverend and Mrs. De Wolf Perry
Henry Ward Ranger, Bequest, through the National Academy of Design
Estate of Richard Recchia
Regis Corporation
James Renwick Collectors’ Alliance
The Sara Roby Foundation
Ed Rossbach
Mr. and Mrs. Miles Rubin
Mr. and Mrs. David C. Ruttenberg
Lonny Schiff
Mr. and Mrs. Allan D. Simon
Mrs. Mitchell Siporin
Joshua Smith
Mabel Sterns
Hiroshi Sueyoshi
U. S. General Services Administration
Aileen B. Train
Erwin P. Vollmer
Washington Print Club
James W. Washington, Jr.
Sandra B. D. Waters
Todd Webb
Katherine Westphal
Donald C. Whitton
John Young
Virginia Zabriskie

<<<Page: 342>>>

National Museum of American Art Donors of Financial Support
Adams, Davidson Galleries, Inc. Rita S. and Vartkess Balian
Diane and Norman Bernstein Christie, Manson & Woods International, Inc. James K. Devlin
Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation Inc. Sandy F. and Gerson G. Eisenberg Mrs. Johnson Garrett
Gremillion and Co. Fine Art, Inc. Re )Philip, Hanes, Jr.
Hirschl and Adler Galleries
Thomas C. Howe
Mrs. Jaquelin Hume
IBM Corporation
Samuel C. Johnson
Beverly J. Lang
The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Metropolitan Life Foundation
Paul S$. and Rueben Nakian
New York Stock Exchange Foundation The Overbrook Foundation
Austra Puzinas
James Renwick Collectors Alliance Sen. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller IV Ruttenberg Arts Foundation Katharine and Charles H. Sawyer Jean M. Seth
Michele Signore
Caroline T. Simmons
Eloise A. Spaeth
Ruth and Marvin Trattner
Trilogy Design at JSL, Inc.
R. Twining and Company and Grosvenor Marketing Ltd. United Technologies Corporation Sturgis Warner
The Washington Craft Show
The Washington Post Company Virginia Bloedel Wright

<<<Page: 343>>>

National Museum of American History
Donors to the Smithsonian Institution
2-Bit Software (through Sandra E. Hutchins and Jan Zimmerman): "Keystroke Management" and "Working Mother's Dilemma" computer games, 1983 (1984.0961).
Gladys H. Abell: 34 political buttons, pins, and tie tacks, a window sticker, and a charm (1984.0686).
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Ables (through Frances G. Alexander): saltbox-type rural mailbox, ca. 1928 (314630).
Bella S. Abzug: brown felt hat worn by Ms. Abzug at the Houston Women's Conference in November 1977 (1980.0070).
Eileen A. Achilles and John G. Anderson: 4-string banjo made of used WW I munitions materials by veteran Elmer 0. Thompson (1984.0975).
Activision, Inc. (through Robert Holmes and Charlotte J. Taylor): "Space Shuttle: A Journey Into Space" computer game, 1984 (1984.0971).
Scott Adams, Inc., Adventure Intermational (through Alexis and M. Scott Adams): “Preppie” and "S.A.G.A." #1-#5 computer games, 1982-83 (1984 .1009).
Rita J. Adrosko: double-woven 19th-century American textile (1982.0146); in memory of Mr. and Mrs. John Adrosko: dress, veil, and a photograph from the wedding of Alice Krynicki Adrosko on July 15, 1928 (1984.0556).
Richard E. Ahlborn: 6 Spanish religious booklets, a lariat, and a loop for a lariat (1978.0346).
George C. Ahrling: set of drafting instruments (1983.0238).
Robert S. Alexander, Ph.D.: manometer recording camera with frame and manometers C, D, E, and F developed and used by Dr. Carl J. Wiggers for recording heart sounds, 1920s-1950s (1982.0199).
Whitney Alexander: 13 lace collars, cuffs, borders, and head pieces and 2 white embroidered furniture scarves (1985.0161).
Aluma Systems Incorporated (through R. J. Johnston and L. B. Thomson): sample of an Aluma Beam structural system, 1984 (1984.0371).
American Heritage Life Investment Corporation (through Judson S. Whorton): 23 U.S. documentary stamps (1980.0946).
Sonie Ames Designs (through Corinne C. and Sonie Ames): porcelain plate decorated with hand-painted roses done by Sonie Ames in 1981 (1984.0727).
Dr. George W. Andrews: folding camp table, enamelware coffeepot, and tinned sheet iron frying pan used by Dr. Andrews' parents after 1926 (1984.0527).
Katharine and Mary Anglemyer: female doll with papier-mache head and shoulders, kid leather body, wooden limbs, and wearing a long white lace dress, ca. 1850 (1985.0066).
Anonymous in memory of Bernice Chrysler Garbisch: woman's white peignoir with orange polka dots designed by Yves St. Laurent, 1973-77 (1983.0242); 2 Yves St. Laurent designer dresses, a pair of black patent leather pumps, and a pair of burgundy satin shoes, all 1968-72 (1983.0338); woman's jumpsuit and coat designed by Hubert de Givenchy, 1965-70 (1984 .0037).
Apple Arts, Ltd. (through Gerald Fried and Malcolm A. Lav): 2 complete sets of progressive proofs used to print 2 works by artist Steve Zazenski by the Positone lithographic process developed by Apple Arts, Ltd.
(1984 .0738).
Judith Arness: 3 saris from India, 2 of cotton and one of silk, 1960-62 (1984.1063).
Artists Against Nuclear War, Reactors and Waste (through Edith DiRe):

<<<Page: 344>>>

poster titled “Pentagon” (1984.0805).
Dr. Joseph and Rochelle D. Aschheim: egg-eyed darner's needle package by Kirby, Beard & Co., silk crewel needle package by Abel Morrall Priory Mills, and a package of 2 needles by Westgate Mills (1984.0413).
Rochelle D. Aschheim: woman's orange angora hat contained in its original hat box, 1920-40 (1983.0653).
Col. Whitney Ashbridge: company size U.S. Army field desk (1979.0659).
Burton E. Ashley: button hook advertising Schneider Brothers Company of Bemidji, Minnesota, 1914-17 (1983.0608).
Avalon Hill Game Company, Microcomputer Games, Inc. (through Jackson Y. Dott): “Jupiter Mission 1999," "“Legionnaire,” and “Panzer-Jagd” microcomputer games, 1982-84 (1984.0953). ;
Dorothy Averill: trapunto-quilted bureau cover made by Charley Minerva Wheaton of Marbledale, Connecticut, 19th century (1984.0326).
Gary P. and Sandra G. Baden: 8 photograph albums containing 212 tintypes, 24 cartes de visite, 24 cabinet prints, and a paper print (1985.0258); 131 tintype photographs, 2 studio paper prints, and a snapshot (1985.0280).
Mrs. Alice G. Bader: silver chain mesh purse, 1907-30, and a silver vanity purse, 1916 (1983.0816).
Ruth D. Baer: 2 pillow shams, nightgown, chemise, drawers, corset cover, and a towel from the wedding trousseau of Clara Fellheimer Israel, married August 2, 1882 (1982.0107).
Charles M. Bagenstose in honor of Edna E. Bagenstose: woman's black fan and red dress, late 19th century (1982.0617).
Jean G. Baker: 3 girl's hats and a muff, a collar bag, 2 woman's corselettes, 3-piece dress, blouse, gloves, stockings, and a belt, late 19th and early 20th centuries (1984.0089).
Baldwin-Wallace College (through James D. Harvey and Dr. Neal Malicky): 2 hand-held telescopes, a refractor telescope with tripod, spectroscope, photometer, surveyor's compass, and an orrery, 19th and 20th century (1985 .0386).
Bally Manufacturing Corporation (through Glenn K. Seidenfeld, Jr.): girl's bathing suit with "Ms. Pac-Man” logo and boy's pajamas, robe, and sweatsuit, with "Pac-Man" logo, 1982-83 (1984.0917).
Walton G. Banks Inc. (through Walton G. Banks): 4 calculating machines and an adding machine (1984.0682); engineer's chain (1984.1024).
Lois W. Banner: boy's T-shirt with slogan "A boy of quality is not threatened by a girl for equality,” 1981 (1984.0806).
Harold E. and Joan Bartruff: miniature stoneware jug made at the Anna Pottery in Anna, Illinois, 1878-94 (1984.0068).
Jeanne M. and Preston R. Bassett: coarse salt-glazed stoneware ring flask and a brass, marble, and glass camphene lamp, both mid-19th-century American (1983.0801).
Preston R. Bassett: 313 ceramic and glass lighting devices showing the range of type, style, and method of manufacture during the 19th century (1979 0796).
Helen Stanton Bauer and Walter Kay Bauer: 2 medals, 2 photographs, 2 news articles, a newspaper, and a sea chest all reflecting the naval career of Oscar F. Stanton from midshipman to rear admiral, 19th century (1983.0487).
Mrs. Ella Strother Baughman: 2-passenger sleigh, ca. 1870 (1979.0679).
Bausch & Lomb (through Margaret Ross): 2 Bausch & Lomb contact lens care kits and a pair of Soflens contact lenses (1981.0330).

<<<Page: 345>>>

Carter Bays: 5 toy sewing machines and a needle-making machine patent model invented by Taddeus Fowler (1983.0616);3 toy sewing machines and a sewing machine patent model invented by T. J. Halligan (1983.0827).
Bruce S. Bazelon: 3 buttons, 2 medals, 2 badges, and 2 insignia from various U.S. military units, 19th and 20th century (1978.0011).
Elizabeth Behr in honor of Mary Berenice Behr, Chauncey Adelbert Doxtater, and Mimi (Mildred) Fitzharris: First Communion dress of white cotton with lace inserts worn by Mary Julia Allman Doxtater in 1901 (1985.0042).
James R. Belford: 3-piece turquoise-blue dress made and worn by Jenny Williams Stevenson of Brooklyn, New York, and a black lace shawl both 1860-74 (1982.0646).
H. K. and Vesta Hartwell Bell: iron and brass buttonhole cutter used by Helen Barber Hartwell, a tailor of men's clothing, 20th century (1985.0031).
Mrs. Alfred Bendiner: cymbalom labeled Schunda Venczel Jozsef of Budapest, Hungary and Joseph Matyas of New York, ca. 1900 (1984.1065).
James C. Benfield: "Musicwriter" musical typewriter made by R. C. Allen, ca. 1954 (1984.0914).
Frances J. Berggren and Judith E. Miller: cornet with mouthpiece and 4 tuning shanks in original case, made by Antoine Courtois of Paris, France, late 19th century (1981.0538).
Edward L. Bernays: pamphlet titled Mass Psychologist about Mr. Bernays written by Henry F. Pringle, February 1930 (1984.0582).
Linda Besade: 2 polo balls of bamboo and a polo ball of plastic (1984.0611).
Edward J. and Millicent R. Best: patch-and-star pattern pieced quilt anda piece of pillar-printed cotton fabric, 19th century (1985.0223).
John A. Betcher: set of drafting instruments, a coordinate window, protractor, triangle, and map measure, all 1906, and a slide rule with instruction pamphlet, 1936 (1982.0386).
Charles F. and E. James Bevan: woman's brown alligator leather handbag and
change purse, 1930-42 (1984.0349).
Mary T. Beyer: burgundy-rose faille bridesmaid's dress with matching hairpiece and shoes, 1955 (1984.1139).
Countess Mona von Bismarck: silk-embroidered cotton quilt and 4 samples of painted silk fabric (1981.0955).
Bivona Surgical Instruments Inc. (through Sharyn Chapkowski): 2 endotracheal tubes and a tracheostomy tube (1982.0216).
William McC. Blair, Jr.: woman's mink fur coat, 1974 (1983.0861).
Mrs. William McC. Blair, Jr.: woman's coat, blouse, skirt, and scarf ensemble designed by Chanel, 1978 (1983.0177); 2 woman's bathing suits, 2 blouses, 2 pairs of sunglasses, a hat, coat, and 3-piece suit, 1975-83 (4983 .0806). :
Mrs. William W. Bland: 10 pieces of clothing designed by Harvey Berin, Galanos, Adele Simpson, and Ben Zuckerman, 1955-60 (1982.0214).
Susan D. Bliss: 2-piece black dress with crochet and embroidery work, ca. 1925 (1982.0246).
Charles Blitzer: 166 U.S. mint postage stamps in panes and blocks (1983.0031).
Blue Chip Software, Inc. (through Ilene Slapin and James G. Zuber): "Millionaire" and "Tycoon" computer games, ca. 1983 (1984.0970).
Lydia H. Bodman: woman's 2-piece pink silk dress, ca. 1895 (1983.0092).
Mrs. A. C. Bonebrake: pink sequined and beaded dress purchased by Mrs. Bonebrake in Philadelphia in 1925 (1983.0099).
Peter N. Borsi: 2 Century printing frames, 2 Cornell lens hoods, 2 negative

<<<Page: 346>>>

numbering devices, a Victor Fotoflash holder, Eastman foot switch, Durst Duomat autofocus enlarger, tripod, and an enlarging easel (1981.0913).
Mrs. Gertrude M. Bostedt: U.S. Navy enlisted man's dress blue uniform jumper, trousers, neckerchief, and flathat worn by Arthur L. Bostedt while serving aboard the USS Canandaigua during WW I (1983.0447); man's 2-piece knit bathing suit, 1921, and a woman's wool knit bathing suit, 1925-26 (1984.0390).
Clare Shenehon Boyd: 18th-century German stoneware pitcher with pewter lid attached and a 19th-century red earthenware mug made in New England (1981.0701); 18th-century English gin glass and wine glass, 5 pitchers, 2
_ dishes, a pan, and a mug of 19th-century American or English ceramic manufacture, an English wine glass, ca. 1840, and a late 19th-century glass juicer (1984.0048); 3 late 18th-century English creamware teabowls and saucers (1984.1114).
Helen King Boyer: 15 intaglio prints and a chiaroscuro woodcut print by Helen King Boyer, 10 drypoint prints and 2 aluminum plates by Louise M. Boyer, and 4 etchings by Ernest W. Boyer (1984.0777); 3 engraved aluminum plates for drypoint prints by artist Louise M. Boyer (1985.0097).
Neil A. Boyer: 27 pieces of photographic processing equipment, 24 photographs and mounts, and 11 cameras, attachments, and apparatus, all from the collection of Lewis E. Boyer, late 19th-early 20th century (1981.0904).
William P. Bradley: 12 WWI posters (1984.0217).
David K. Bragg: automatic temperature controller made by Draper Manufacturing Company of New York, 1887 (1984.0386).
Arthur B. Briskman: 3 Cibachrome prints of the Brooklyn Bridge taken at late afternoon, twilight, and evening by Paula Barr on December 8, 1982 (1984 .0572).
Mary Eve Brockman: oil portrait of Rosalynn and Amy Carter by Thorton Utz (1980.0065).
Suzanne Brose: Cibachrome print of the Queensboro Bridge taken by Paula Barr, 1982 (1984.0571).
Mrs. Helen E. Brown: black veil of tambour-embroidered net, 1840-60, and a white chantilly lace barbe (1982.0291).
Jerold E. Brown, Ph.D.: 2 Keramos yearbooks of East Liverpool High School in East Liverpool, Ohio, 1928 and 1929 (1984.0646).
Joan S. Brown: woman's 2-piece ivory silk dress, ca. 1867, a pair of drawers, 1880-1920, combination teddy, ca. 1930, and a man's Panama hat in its original box, 1920-50 (1983.0097).
Winifred M. (Lindsey) Brown: "Grand Army of the Republic Veterans” button worn by Thomas Fitzgerald, post Civil War (1984.0580).
Mrs. Beatrice Bryant: 2 horse harnesses, 2 ox yokes, 2 milk cans, an egg carrying box, buck saw, sauerkraut maker, pitchfork, potato cutter, broadaxe, and an adze (320030).
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver V. Bucklen: 2 linen sheets, one embroidered “Mary 1843 Nissley” and the other "MN," and a Jacquard-woven coverlet inscribed "J. Brosey 1841" and "M. Nissley" (1984.0247).
Jeanne Bultman: ice-blue silk satin evening gown first designed by Charles James in 1929 and made for Mrs. Bultman in 1976 (1983.0176).
George E. Burch, Jr., M.D.: 159 medical instruments including radioactive tracing, calorimetry, and circulation instruments from work pioneered by Dr. Burch and historic electrocardiographic equipment (1980.0186).
James A. Burgel: one-quarter scale model of a dilapidated mobile home with fully equipped interior titled "El Rancho Encantado, Mobile Homesteading,

<<<Page: 347>>>

U.S.A." made by Mr. Burgel in 1982 (1984.0084).
S. Joan Burk: journal kept by Guy Thomas Ricketts while serving aboard the USS Nevada during WW I (1983.0603).
Frank C. Buxton, M.D.: green surgical scrub shirt and trousers, 1982 (1982.0283).
Jane M. Cahill, Virgil Kauffman, and Harry Tubis: stereoscope, lens, shutter, and 20 stereographs and volumes of documents detailing the careers of Arthur Brock, Jr., Norman H. Brock, and Major Edward H. Cahill who pioneered aerial photography and developed photogrammetric mapping (320769).
Betty Jane Campbell: infant's lace cap, 1899, 4 girl's dresses, 2 slips, and a pair of panties, 1921-22, and 2 man's handkerchiefs, 1900-36 (1984 .0294).
Heather H. Campbell: 6 items from a U.S. Navy enlisted man's dress blue uniform worn by Albert G. Bouton and 4 photographs of Mr. Bouton and his shipmates aboard the USS Illinois, 1901-9 (1983.0409).
Cannon Mills Company (through Edward L. Rankin, Jr.): white Cannon towel, 1930s (1984.1057).
Custer T. Carland and Custer T. Carland: U.S. Navy Model K steam launch engine, 1918 (1984.1092).
Amy Carter (through Rosalynn Carter): doll house brought by Miss Carter from Georgia and played with in the White House (1981.0405).
Mignon Casselberry: Ronan Method 5-piece drafting tool, original manuscript instruction book, and a 2-piece dress made using the Ronan Method all invented and made by Mrs. Casselberry (1981.0430).
Lee M. Cattell (through Estell S. Cattell): 15 artifacts of U.S. Navy enlisted man's uniforms, 1950-83 (1983.0456).
Babette Potter Chadwick: woman's cotton and silk white dress, 1904-5 (1984 .0695).
Stephen L. Champlin: 10 perforated vent tiles and 4 low-relief decorated tiles made by Calco Tile Manufacturing Corporation of South Gate, California, 1923-34 (1982.0667).
John W. Chesley, Jr.: 2 woman's dresses, wrapper, coat, wool petticoat, belt, and a Red Cross veil, late 19th and early 20th century (1983.0385).
Children's Hearing and Speech Center, Children's Hospital National Medical Center (through Gilbert R. Herer): 12 hearing aids and aid parts of various types dating from the 1950s to the present (1980.0737).
Valentine Z. Chilk and Claire Cardozo imburg: ivory glove darner with needle compartment, 19th or early 20th century (1983.0863).
Government of the Republic of China, The Philatelic Department, Directorate General of Posts (through E. K. Chien): 72 mint stamps, specimen stamps, and first day covers of the Republic of China (1983.0027).
Christmas Seal League of Southwesterm Pennsylvania (through Thomas J. Hilliard, Jr.): 1,872 Christmas Seals which make up 25 complete sets of seals for the years 1958-82 (1982.0776).
R. B. Churchill: girl's tan leather gloves, 1888-92 (1985.0043).
Sylvia J. Churgin: 161 phonograph records (1984.0610).
E. Clain-Stefanelli: 10 “Bungtown” imitation English copper half pennies used in the American colonies, 18th century (1984.0485); 26 credit cards (1984 .0606).
David Sanders Clark: set of buttons for the gray summer uniform of U.S. Navy officers during WW II (1984.0001).
Philip W. Clark: data transaction recorder with associated documentation (1984 .0932).

<<<Page: 348>>>

Elsie Tytla Claypool, M.D.: 9 kerosene lamps, a hanging lamp, marine lantern, and a wooden floor candleholder, all late 19th to early 20th century (1983.0729).
C. D. Clemente: 5 man's suits by designers Bill Blass, Lanzetti, Baker Clothes, Dimitri, and Pierre Cardin, 1970-75 (1984.0055).
Shirley G. Cochrane: white formal shirt worn by Henry C. Kearns at his wedding on December 12, 1916 (1983.0648).
Estate of Martha Jane Ballard Cody (through Thomas N. Brosmer): necklace of woven hair, 1840-80, and a brooch with a lock of braided hair encased in glass, 1840-60 (1983.0800).
William H. Cohrs: wooden bowl with dark relief band on outside rim recovered from the wreck of the propeller steamer Vernon which sank in Lake Michigan on October 29, 1887 (1984.0398).
The Coleman Company, Inc. (through H. J. Pfountz): double-mantle kerosene lantem with mica windows and bail handle, ca. 1919 (1984.1096).
Emerson L. Coleman, Jr.: man's “dashiki" West African shirt and a green U.S. Army shirt, 1975 (1984.0362).
Wn. Comfort: control panel and flow control valve from a Specialmatic automatic machine tool control system, ca. 1960 (1984.0498).
Carl W. Condit: 162 linen tracings and drawings on paper of the framing for the Woolworth Building and the West Street Building in New York City (1984.0675).
Government of the Cook Islands, Philatelic Bureau: 22 mint stamps, souvenir sheets and first day covers of the Cook Islands (1983.0028).
Dr. B. Franklin Cooling: book titled Benjamin Franklin Tracy; Lawyer, Soldier, Secretary of the Navy, 1889-93, completed in 1969 (1983.0196).
Priscilla H. Corbett: infant's cap and pair of shoes, ca. 1896, woman's Quaker bonnet, 1850-74, 2-piece dress, 1904, and a “pill box" hat, 1950s (1983.0805).
Vincent L. Corrado: Friden calculating machine, Friden calculator and adding machine adjustment manual, Monroe service bulletin #450 and 4 Monroe schematics (1983.0475).
Hazel Cory: black pill box hat designed and made by Mabelle Parks of Tulsa, Oklahoma, 1958 (1984.0832).
Sherwood Costen: woman's black silk cape, 1850-55 (1983.0722).
Richard C. Cote: marble-topped table on a carved wooden pedestal base made
, by Edmund T. Lamb of Boston in the 1880s (1984.1075).
Elizabeth W. Covel: 5 woman's dresses, a 2-piece suit, anda belt, 20th century (1982.0292).
Joyce W. and Loren D. Creede: 2 woman's parasols, pair of stockings, and a shawl, 19th century (1984.0090).
CSL/WEC Associates, A Joint Venture (through Carl W. Bleicken): 3 cornice sprinklers, 2 water pressure gauges, a variable pressure alarm valve, and a hand-operated pressure pump, all part of a Grinnell Automatic Wet Pipe Sprinkler System, ca. 1890 (1984.0396).
Mary R. Daily: 22 items of insignia and memorabilia and a scrapbook of official naval correspondence, letters, and newspaper articles reflecting the U.S. Navy career of WAVE officer Mary R. Daily, WW II-1951 (1982.0658).
Monta Lee Dakin: tube of Run-R-Stop used to repair woman's stockings, 1940s (1984 .0477).
Mickey Dale: booklet of coupons from the Leckie Fire Creek Coal Company store dated October 13, 1916, and a railroad ticket for passage from Glen Alum to Iaeger, West Virginia on the Norfolk and Western Railway dated

<<<Page: 349>>>

June 30, 1918 (1981.0002).
Caroline S. and John C. Davies: 129 maps, drawings, surveys, chromolithographs, prospectuses, and agreements from the Hudson Suspension Bridge & New England Railway Company including its Articles of Incorporation and mortgage, 1869-1905 (1984.0244).
Mrs. Chalmer L. Davis and Chalmer T. Davis: infant's white christening gown and slip and a photograph of Mr. Davis wearing the gown, ca. 1887 (1984 .0904).
Dr. Frank B. Davis: 28 items making up dress blue, dress white, and dress khaki uniforms worn by Dr. Davis while a captain in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve, ca. 1965 (1983.0460).
George C. Davis: Monroe Epic 3000 programmable printing calculator with ribbon and 2 instruction booklets and a Curta II calculating machine with 2 instruction booklets (1983.0471).
Martha B. Davis: 9 perfume bottles, 2 lingerie cases, 2 parasols, a Hattie Carnegie beret, comb, vanity case, glove stretcher, rouge box, and a coin purse, late 19th and early 20th century (1983.0718).
Constance R. Dawson: autographed quilt top presented to Rev. Bernard H. Nadal by the women of his church in Virginia, dated 1847 (1983.0865).
P. W. Deafenbaugh, Jr.: 32 medical items (1984.0562).
Ellery Denison: 4 tintypes and 4 cartes de visite (1984.0912).
Government of the Kingdom of Denmark, Ministry of Public Works, General Directorate of Posts and Telegraphs: 540 mint stamps of Denmark and the Faroe Islands (1984.0267).
Richard J. De Prez: Universal quart capacity vacuum bottle with glass lining made by Landers, Frary and Clark of New Britian, Connecticut, ca. 1917 (1984 .0886 ).
Eleanor Dickinson: 68 artifacts associated with the Pentacostal revival of the mid-20th century (316429); 5 religious signs and boxes used in evangelist churches and 2 aluminum signs, a concrete cross, and a concrete heart made by Brother Harrison Mayes, 20th century (322671); walking cane with religious messages written on it, adapted by Brother Harrison Mayes of Middlesboro, Kentucky, and a box made by Dewey Chapin of Jolo, West Virginia, to hold poisonous snakes during religious services (1978.0344).
William J. Dickman: portfolio of 15 collotypes published in Berlin in 1918 after lithographs by Daumier, 12 miscellaneous prints, and 2 pencil drawings (1984.0816).
Barbara Dickstein: pogo jumping stick and a bongo balancing board, 1950s (1984.1017).
Sidney Dickstein: 10 examples of mid-20th-century man's and woman's clothing (1982.0446).
Wilton S. Dillon: T-shirt and bumper sticker from the Communications Workers of America in support of Walter Mondale, 1984 (1984.0448).
Mark E. Dixon: man's T-shirt announcing the 18th Airborne Corps’ parachute club's participation at a beach festival which was "CANCELLED DUE TO THE INVASION OF GRENADA" in 1983 (1984.0587).
Peter Dorobish: 2 Hoe Corporation pipe wrenches (1984.0453).
Gladys C. Dougherty: 2 handmade bird pins made during WW II in a relocation camp in Utah for persons of Japanese descent (1977.0149); 4 cocktail goblets, a decorated tumbler, and a perfume bottle with stopper and a vase with Art Deco decorations, all 20th-century glass (1984.0288); 2 engraved steel plates for printing visiting cards, 1942 (1984.1039).
Ben M. Douglas: 2 notes of payment due to Stephen Girard to be paid to banks

<<<Page: 350>>>

in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1806 (1979.1055).
Dow Corning Corporation, Medical Materials Marketing, Communications (through Robert G. Dean): obstetrical vacuum cup (1982.0444).
Eleanor E. Doyle: girl's white cotton dress, 1905-6 (1982.0252).
Pamela A. Dyer: black and white photograph of the crew of the USS Michigan, WW I (1983.0486).
Dynamic Software Design (through Alexander Leavens and Shirley A. Russell): “Wombats I: Gazumba the Great and The Wombats of Borozoa™ computer game, 1984 (1985.0003).
Ray Eames: man's brown leather shoes, 1940-55 (1983.0344).
Mary Eastwood: 12 photographs and papers relating to the formation of the National Organization for Women, 1960s (1984.0392).
S. Arlent Edwards, Jr.: theatrical trunk (1983.0218).
Electronic Arts (through William J. Kaiser): “Archon,” "M.U.L.E.,” "Murder on the Zinderneuf,” “One-on-One,” "Pinball Construction Set,” and "The Seven Cities of Gold" computer games, 1982-84 (1984.0969).
Wm. J. Ellenberger: 19 drafting and drawing instruments and 3 slide rules with 6 instruction pamphlets for using slide rules, early 20th century (1981.20933);.
John T. and Sheila Elliot: collapsible "Kiddie-Koop” crib made by Trimble Nurseryland Furniture, Inc. of Rochester, New York, 1930 (1984.0977).
Lucia K. Englehart: 22 pieces of clothing from the weddings of 4 generations of Mrs. Englehart's family, 1862, 1894, 1918, and 1947 (1981.1069); woman's black silk mantle with beaded lace trim, 1878-90 (1982.0125).
Anita G. English, Lilla Cabot Levitt, and Elizabeth S. Lyon: 7-piece silver tea service presented to Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry by the citizens of Boston on September 10, 1813 in honor of his victory over the British in the naval battle of Lake Erie (1985.0121).
Mary Epremian: woman's scarf decorated with star bursts and rhinestones designed by Vera in 1948 (1983.0341).
EPYX, Inc. (through Michael V. Katz): "Dragon Riders of Pern,” "Oil Barons,” “Temple of Apshai,” “Curse of Ra,” and "FAX" computer games, 1982-83 (1984 .0993).
Celia K. Erskine: boy's white dress in Colonial Revival style, ca. 1884 (1982.0421).
Elliot P. Evans: wood-slat folding chair, ca. 1880 (1983.0348).
Timothy Evans: pair of woman's black silk net mitts, 1840-65 (1984.0457).
EVI Equipment, Inc. (through Joan Bedgood and Charles F. Payne): tier lift for materials handling made by the Lakewood Engineering Company of Cleveland, Ohio, early 20th century (1980.0161).
Col. Willis L. Fairbanks: "Chainomatic” analytical balance made by Christian Becker, Inc. equipped with a chain adjustment system to eliminate using small fractional weights, ca. 1941 (1984.0981).
Anthony P. and Martha E. R. Falbo: letter to Mr. Falbo from Dwight D. Eisenhower dated February 20, 1948, concerning Brotherhood Week (1984 .0579).
Fantastic Feminist Enterprises, Inc. (through Joanne McQueen): 2 T-shirts "Fantastic Feminist" and "Macho is Sicko” (1983.0803).
Thomas Farnquist: steam whistle from the wreck of the propeller vessel Indiana which sank in Lake Superior on June 6, 1858 (1982.0241).
Government of the Faroe Islands, Post Office: 228 mint stamps and first day covers of the Faroe Islands (1984.0269).
Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. Faulkner: woman's white silk blouse, 1912-16 (1983 .0038).

<<<Page: 351>>>

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (through Ralph A. Cann III): Sangamo Electric Co. kilowatt hour meter (1981.0513).
The Honorable George J. Feldman in memory of Marion Schulman Feldman: 2 woman's suits and an evening gown designed by Gabrielle Chanel, a 2-piece dress designed by James Galanos, and 2 pairs of beige shoes, 1960s-1970s (1983.0198).
Josephine E. Felton: woman's black seal skin muff and scarf, 1890-1910 (1984 .0365).
Elizabeth J. Ferraro: pink satin stocking case with blue embroidered fan, 1951 (1984.1034).
Otto E. Fielder: 13 objects showing the development of an advertising premium of a pair of puppy and kitten salt and pepper shakers from drawing to finished product, 1950 (1985.0254).
Films and Filmscripts (through Earle B. Luby): videotape film shown and broadcast at the Democratic National Convention, July 10, 1972 (1983 .0275).
Joan Orr Fink: woman's cap, hat, jacket, mittens, and parasol from the 19th century and a black dress, 1910-25 (1982.0584).
Bernard S. Finn: Wanamaker automatic electric portable sewing machine, 1920s (1984 .0179).
Helen Louise Fitz-Gerald: anniversary volume celebrating 50 years of the Kubler & Niethammer paper mill and a plan of the mill's property in Kriebstein, Germany, 1906 (1984.0590).
Lorraine M. Fitzgerald: photograph of the Oldham Hand Bell Ringers of England dated February 8, 1867 (1985.0484).
Neil H. Folberg: 5 photographs by Mr. Folberg, 1971 (1984.1023).
LaVerne Hill Forbush: 6 lithographs and a collotype, 1839-46 (1985.0394).
Elverta H. Foster: 39 examples of 20th-century American art glass (1982.0315).
Government of the Republic of France, Administration des Monnaies et Medailles (through Monsieur le Directeur): 69 French medals (1978.2509).
Godfrey Frankel: 5 photographs of Brooklyn Bridge and a photograph of Williamsburg Bridge, all from the late 1940s (1984.0195).
Elinor L. Frankenfield: surgical kit used during the Civil War by Dr. Griffith Jones Scholl (1982.0604).
Jonn Freund and David Porter: 3 posters and 2 pieces of artwork for the poster “Bedtime for Brezhnev" made by Mr. Freund and Mr. Porter (1984 .0778).
Valeria K. Frost-Field: porcelain lamp base hand-painted with a scene of the Roman goddess Juno by Mrs. Field and her teacher, Margaret Abbot, in 1927, a shade, and a metal finial (1984.0726).
Helen-Marie Fruth: brooch with Florentine intarsia floral decoration, 1870s, amethyst, pearl, and gold link necklace, 1900-20, and a gold bar brooch with floral motif of turquoise and pearls and a photograph of Mary Leontine Gemp wearing the brooch, 1880s (1984.0364); cased ambrotype portrait of a man (1984.1095).
Hazel Wright Funke: woman's pink slip, 1938-42 (1983.0647).
Anne H. Ganz: quilted grey robe made for a wedding trousseau, 1867-85 (1982 .0497).
Eleanor Belden Gatling and John W. Gatling: woman's black beaded dress and a red feather-trimmed mantle, 1880s (1984.1106).
Frank Gay: 5 studio portrait photographs of wedding party members, mid-20th century (1985.0208).
Edythe Robertson Geis: woman's blue silk and velvet dress, black parasol,

<<<Page: 352>>>

and a knitted cap, 19th century (1984.0920).
General Electric Company, Aerospace Controls and Electrical Systems Department, Aircraft Equipment Division (through Dr. Hermann Schmid): miniature digital voltmeter and an electronic digital slide rule, 1966-68 (1982.0609).
Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, Postal Administration: Christmas card with a first day cancelled stamp, 1981 (1984.0276).
Carol Gerson Graphic Design (through Carol Gerson): polling poster and T-shirt in support of Jesse Jackson as Presidential nominee from the Democratic Party, 1984 (1984.0494). :
Carl S. Gewirz: man's suede jacket by McGregor, 1956 (1983.0720); late 19thor early 20th-century needle lace banquet table cover with border design based on the llth-century French "Bayeux Tapestries” (1985.0162).
Nancy Gewirz: 11 pieces of woman's designer clothes and accessories and 4 pieces of man's clothing, 1950s through 1970s (1982.0102); woman's multicolor patch suede jacket and a tan and brown handbag, 1970-75 (1984 .0637).
Hazelle Gibbons: porcelain plate hand-painted in the "Dresden" style by Mrs. Gibbons and titled Fit for a Queen, 1978 (1984.0725).
Cora Ginsburg: man’s white silk waistcoat embroidered with flower designs and sequins, 1780s (1984.0078).
William J. Glick: 2 collotype prints, ca. 1949, and a book titled Willian Edwin Rudge by Mr. Glick, 1984 (1985.0411).
Jonn C. Goff: 3 military surplus prisms for use in telescopes, WW II period (19850327 )y.
Lawrence I. Goldberg: "Goldberg's Pizzeria” neon sign (1984.0575).
Mrs. Richard D. Gordan: 74 pieces of infant's and girl's clothing worn by Mrs. Gordan's 3 daughters from 1951-65 and a girl's veil worn in 1937 (1980.0442).
Harry H. Gordon, M.D.: glass urine collection tube used for full-term infants, 1930s (1982.0445).
Prof. David C. Gossard: control box for the "Analogic Part Programming System” developed by Professor Gossard (1984.0212).
Greg Chandler Gove: 13 pieces of plastic dishes by the Beetleware Corporation of New York, ca. 1923 (1984.0331).
Mrs. Gordon Gray: 3 woman's dresses by American designer James Galanos, 1965-67 (1983.0105).
William C. Gray: 2 enamelled Massachusettg license plates, 1910 and 1911, and a Gray and Davis electrical switch box for car lights (1981.0631). Lucille A. Grills: 7 stereographic views of Washington, D.C. (1985.0206).
Johanna Grimes: 12 cases of artificial teeth (312607).
Nicholas Grossman: Hewlett-Packard model 35 hand calculator with accessories, 3 owner's handbooks, and a manual of HP-55 mathematics programs (1982.0222).
Government of the Republic of Guinea, Philatelic Agency: 29 mint stamps of Guinea (19384.0270).
Ashley B. Gurney: 2,706 farming periodicals, late 19th and early 20th centuries (322603).
State Senator Robert A. Hall of Massachusetts in memory of his fellow Marines: set of 300 stereographic slides of WWI by the Keystone View Company, a book titled The World War Through the Stereoscope, and a viewer (1982.0403).
Conrad S. Ham: refined earthenware teapot and cover reproduced by Josiah Wedgwood & Sons, ca. 1871, from an original, thought to have been brought

<<<Page: 353>>>

to America by Elder Brewster on the Mayflower in 1620 (1983.0802).
T. Hanley: 3 paper notes and 2 plastic discs used by the Commonwealth Bank of Australia to train staff for the change to decimal currency in 1966 (1980.0987).
Addie E. Hayes: 15 sewing samples made by sewing instructor Nannie J. Taylor of Washington, D.C.,-1935 (1983.0091).
Rudolf Henning: 3 Jew's harps made by Karl Schwarz of Austria, ca. 1983 (1984.0872).
Rochambeau A. Herosian: wooden slide rule with instruction sheet (1982.0244).
Mrs. Helen A. Hess: IBM electric typewriter Model D with 4 boxes of "Typits” interchangeable type bars (1984.0499).
Paul A. Higdon III: tinware "Little Brown Jug” with earthenware inner jug patented by Pearl H. Brainard of Macomb, Illinois on December 11, 1923 (1984.1102).
Josephine E. Hitchcock: Korona Series 5 camera with accessories and case, 3 photographs by Parkhurst, and 2 photographs by Laura Gilpin (1984.0665).
Ray Watkin Hoagland: rosewood grand piano made by Chickering & Sons of Boston, Massachusetts, ca. 1865 (1981.0625).
Pauline Stockton Hoff: 4 woman's fans, 1880-1920 (1983.0733).
John N. Hoffman (through Rev. Dr. James B. Parsons): 147 miscellaneous objects from 19thand 20th-century political campaigns (1984.0589).
Holiday Inns, Inc. (through Jimmie D. Scott): Holiday Inn great sign written in Arabic on one side and Chinese on the other, 1975 (1983.0021).
Nina Holland: 2 pieces of oilcloth floor covering from a farm house in Westport, New York (1982.0525).
Edgar M. Holmes, M.D.: nasopharyngoscope developed by Dr. Holmes’ father and manufactured by the Electrical Surgical Instrument Co. of Rochester, New York (1983.0741).
Catherine F. Hoopes: 10 cameras and a group of 28 photographic accessories (1982.0774).
Mildry S. Hopper: choker necklace of 10 strands of imitation pearls and rhinestones, 1906, and a black crocheted necklace, 1910-15 (1984.0543).
Elizabeth Horn: woman's ivory fan signed "A. Lawrence,” 1890-1920 (1984 .0239).
Dickran Y. and Viola D. Hovsepian: 9 mounted photographs by the Taber Studios in San Francisco, California (1983.0759).
Richard H. Howland: pier table with marble top and a mirror from floor to top, made in Baltimore, 1830-40 (1984.1121); garden settee of curved and interwoven steel wire, 1875-1900 (1984.1136).
Elizabeth B. and Richard S. Hubert in memory of Mary Wilkins Harper: sterling silver trophy cup won by Mary W. Harper on June 25-26, 1910 at the Annual Run of the Automobile Club of Philadelphia (1978.0364).
Huffy Corporation (through R. Wieland): Sahara model woman's 3-speed bicycle, the 30 millionth Huffy bicycle made, 1979 (1979.06384).
Milton C. Hugg: 16 Christmas tree light bulbs in shapes of animals, fruit, flowers, and a Santa Claus, made in Japan, 1925-35 (1984.1042).
Dard Hunter II: 4 sheets of watermarked paper made from original molds from the Dard Hunter Mill (1985.0427).
Heather Huyck: poster advertising an “ERA Walk-A-Thon" starting at Lafayette Park in Washington, D.C. on August 22, 1982 (1984.0469).
Edna Vogt Hyatt and Edward L. C. Vogt: 51 pieces of mid-19th-century American "Argus" or "“Thumbprint™ pattern pressed glass (1984.0327).
Clare Cardozo Imburg: silver finger shield (1983.0865).

<<<Page: 354>>>

INFOCOM, Inc. (through Albert Vezza): "Planetfall,” "Sorcerer," “Deadline,” and "Zork I" computer games, 1982-84 (1984.0878).
Mary Inman: 2 pamphlets, a newsletter, bookmark, periodical, leaflet, and a photocopied letter all documenting Ms. Inman's political beliefs and opinions (1980.0473).
Instrument Society of America, Philadelphia Section, Inc. (through Horace Richter): 67 automatic control instruments (1983.0006).
International Games, Inc. (through Joseph A. Cusimano): "UNO: Wild Tiles” board game, 1983 (1984.0968).
In Touch Networks, Inc. (through Jasha M. Levi): man's black cotton T-shirt with silver lettering and raised Braille dots spelling "In Touch,” 1983 (1983.0612).
Invacare Corporation (through Evan J. Kemp, Jr. and A. Malachi Mixon III): chain drive hand-propelled tricycle wheelchair built in 1928 and 2 modern wheelchair models, one hand-propelled and one power propelled, ca. 1980 (1983 .0306).
The University of Iowa, School of Art and Art History (through Wallace J. Tomasini): "Philadelphia" bent iron hand press manufactured by Adam Ramage in the 1840s (1984.0427).
Government of the State of Israel, Ministry of Communications, Philatelic Services: 9 first day covers of Israel (1983.0133); 47 first day covers, 3 mint stamps, and a souvenir sheet of Israel (1984.0271).
Virginia B. Jachowski: beadwork necklace dated 1833 and a quilted white cotton petticoat, mid-19th century (1983.0868).
Mrs. Clair Jackson: tintype portrait of a man (1984.0615).
Steve Jackson Games (through Steve Jackson): "Car Wars,” “Illuminati,” and “Ogre” board games, 1982 (1984.0960).
Helen Danow Jacobs in memory of her father, Walter Danow, Hoe Company Machinist: machinist's tool chest with 145 accessories and related material belonging to Walter Danow, early 20th century (1984.0625).
Charlene James: man's T-shirt from the Orofino Lumberjack Days of Orofino, Idaho, 1980 (1982.0727).
Jantzen Inc. (through Charles Coe): 16 items of man's and woman's sportswear by Jantzen, 1983-84 (1984.0639).
Vida Hays Jarvis: gold thimble in red leather and brass case, late 19th century (1985.0379).
Joyce L. and Robert G. Jensen: 2 pairs of U.S. Army spurs, WW I (1977.0823).
Government of the Island of Jersey, Department of Postal Administration: picture postcard marking the 10th anniversary of the Jersey Post Office and a booklet of stamps from Jersey (1979.0956).
Alex R. Johnson: gold tenth stater of Kyrenaica in North Africa, ca. 435-331 B.C. (1984.0423).
Robert J. Kann: set of 6 English pearlware teabowls and saucers decorated with a polychrome handpainted "vase and flower” motif, 1830-50, and an English copper lusterware pear-shaped pitcher decorated with low-relief polychrome fruit, 1820-40 (1984.0027).
Alvin R. and Marjorie S. Kantor: undivided 70% interest of the Benjamin Franklin General Post Office Account written entirely in Mr. Franklin's own hand and includes 8 of his signatures, 1770-72 (1982.0786).
Andre Kappes: mint postage stamp of Algeria, 1940 (1984.0437).
Elizabeth de B. Karrick: penciled floor plan and elevation of the shed on the Southmayd estate in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, ca. 1874 (1984.1030).
Kennebec Log Driving Co. (through William L. Philbrick): logging bateau used in Maine equipped with 23 related tcols (1977.0685).
So n

<<<Page: 355>>>

Kathryn D. Kent: black silk dress with brown satin ruffles and trim made and worn by Lydia Mosher Kent at her wedding and a white petticoat worn with the dress, 1883 (1984.0662).
Susan L. Kentoff: 15 pieces of woman's dance and sport clothing, 1974-83 (1984.0190).
Christine Carlson Kerns: 2 Shirley Temple brand girl's dresses, ca. 1936-38 (1983.0374).
Claudia B. Kidwell: ready-made woman's corset labeled Royal Worcester Corset Co., 1840-60 (1982.0098); 9 woman's hats, 4 girl's bonnets, a woman's wrapper, and a petticoat, late 19th century, a woman's skirt, ca. 1910, and a woman's tote bag, bathing suit, pantsuit, bra-slip, dress, hairpiece, and a man's bathing suit, 1958-82 (1984.0250).
Bernard M. Kilbourn: 3 buttons and 2 posters with the slogan “Stop the Draft," 1980 (1980.0607).
Kilburg Geochron Corporation (through James Kilburg): Geochron global time clock, 1983 (1984.0731).
Kirsch/Hamilton Associates (through David K. Peters): “Prisma” electric clock with seconds indicated by a disc that changes color as it rotates around the face, ca. 1979 (1982.0324).
Frank E. Klapthor: white ceramic vase with oriental designs of blue and gold made in China for export, ca. 1780 (1984.0480).
Alan D. Knez: St. John's College High School ROTC cadet's overcoat, coat, and button, 1967-71 (1977.0822).
Ellen Kominers: woman's T-shirt used as a wedding invitation, dated September 25, 1983 (1984.0189).
William Kominers: man's T-shirt inscribed "Super Hogs, Rose Bowl, Pasadena, California, 1983" (1983.0725).
Janet Meade Komoroske: cotton patchwork "Sunburst" quilt, 19th century (1984.0221)..
Frank Kopf: experimental cathode ray tube (1982.0109).
Mary-Anne K. and Peter S. Koromilas: retouching stand for negatives (2984-0911).
Alice Kunkle: woman's gray satin and lace dress, 1915-17 (1983.0848).
Dominick Labino and The Honorable Sidney R. Yates: glass plaque with relief bust of Harry S. Truman done by Mr. Labino in 1983 (1984.0367).
Gloria La Fay: woman's pink rayon dress, 1966-69 (1983.0382).
Lamar Chamber of Commerce (through Daniel Arnold and Gerald W. Gilkey): ceramic plate commemorating the centennial birthday of Harry S. Truman, born in Lamar, Missouri on May 8, 1884 (1984.0482).
J. P. Lambooy, Ph.D.: microbalance made by Christian Becker, Inc., radioactive scaler made by Radiation Instrument Development Laboratory, and a flow counter made by Radiation Counter Laboratories, all ca. 1950 G1985)0214)).
Benjamin T. Layton: 4 WWI medals, 3 WW II insignia, and a name plate (1978.0039).
James E. Lee: 1920 lawn mower (320043).
James R. Lee: white plastic duckpin with red band, 1984 (1984.0783).
The James Leffel and Company (through A. H. Van Wormer): bronze model of a water turbine with draft tube and a plaster model of a turbine blade (1981.0048).
Barbara Lowis Lehmann: tractor-powered chain saw with parts, ca. 1950 (1981.0281).
Bruce Leighty: 2 woman's pantsuits, a 6-piece ensemble, 3-piece ensemble, 3-piece dress, and a blouse, 1970s (1984.0291).

<<<Page: 356>>>

Ali Leonetti: 8 tools from Mr. Leonetti's locksmith and grinding shop which operated in Atlantic City, New Jersey from 1932 to 1984 (1984.0621).
Eula B. Lewis: 5 aprons, 3 collars, 3 cuffs, 2 dresses, and a black velvet neck band, all parts of housemaid's uniforms, 1920-40 (1984.0684); 5 lace lampshade covers, 20th century (1985.0033); 10 Easter animal figure ornaments, 2 jointed wooden dolls, a musical doll, black composition doll, and a stuffed mohair polar bear, 1900-20 (1985.0104); in memory of Mrs. Ethel Gunton Douglas: 275 examples of lace, embroidery, and woven-patterned fabrics, 12 damask napkins, 6 damask tablecloths, and a painted tapestry, early 19th to early 20th century (1984.0111).
Marie K. Lewis: white cotton nightgown worn by Mary A. Gundersdorf Baer as part of her wedding trousseau, 1876 (1983.0372).
Samuel S. Liberman: Gem razor in its original box with extra blades and an instruction sheet, 1940-60 (1983.0253).
Kathryn B. Lindeman: Universal vacuum bottle made by Landers, Frary & Clark of New Britain, Connecticut, ca. 1916 (1984.1099)..
Lindenmeyr Paper Corporation (through Leonard B. Schlosser): half-size scale model of the paper making machine invented by Nicholas Louis Robert, ca. 1800, made from Robert's patent specifications in 1984 (1984.0978).
Corporation of London, St. Bride Institute, St. Bride Printing Library (through James Mosley): 3 pieces of hand-cast type dated 1677, 1746, and 1761: (1985..0182)):.
Thomas S. Lough: telephone answering machine, 1950s (1982.0264).
Susan L. Lowther: 2 girl's skirts, a pair of shoes, pair of tights, blouse, crew neck sweater, and a turtle neck sweater, 1982-83 (1984.0505).
Steven Lubar: “Minnequa Imported Flax Water Bag” with aluminum closure made by Pueblo Tent & Awning Co. of Pueblo, Colorado, 1925-49 (1984.0810).
Nadine H. and Walter D. Ludwig: violin made by J. B. Guadagnini of Milano, Italy, dated 1752 (1984.0769).
Bertha Lyon: woman's leopard skin pill box hat, 1960 (1984.0407).
Margaret S. McComb: child's silver thimble, 19th century (1984.1062).
Ruth Ellen McCullough: partially constructed corset cover with unfinished embroidery, 1915-25 (1982.0596).
McDonald's International (through Thomas A. Gruber): McDonald's restaurant sign in Japanese (1983.0020).
Carolina Sheridan McElroy: 19th-century garden harrow (1978.2372).
Robert N. MacDonald: 6 experimental samples of and 4 products made from Delring the first usable polymer of formaldehyde, samples developed in the 1950s, and products made in the 1980s (1985.0281).
Marguerite MacMahon: "Polka Spider Web" lace-making kit containing 11 wheel lace tools and accessories, 20th century (1985.0377).
Larry Magid: Jennings "Sportsman" model pinball machine, 1934 (1984.0607).
Robert J. Maier: electric cable automobile lift built by Waiker Manufacturing Company of Racine, Wisconsin and used 1933-65 (1983.0504).
Vivian Maine: Correcteyescope with slides and case manufactured by Keystone View Co. (1980.0711).
Kenneth Maley: 51 newspapers, T-shirts, buttons, stickers, pamphlets, and mailings concerning the Gay Rights movement in Dade County, Florida (1984 .0749).
Claudine B. Malone: 3 shopping bags, 2 woman's T-shirts, and 2 pairs of panties with their original containers, 1980-84 (1984.0361).
Jane Marcks: porcelain plaque hand-painted with a portrait of a young girl done by Ms. Marcks in 1980 (1984.0723).
Lucy Martin: steel leg braces with padded waist attachment made by F.
ys in wP)

<<<Page: 357>>>

Kaufman Surgical Co., ca. 1930 (1985.0041).
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lincoln Laboratory (through John A. Kessler): X-626 klystron tube (1983.0311).
Frank M. Masters, Jr. in memory of Frank M. Masters, Sr.: 19 woodworking planes, a drawshave, scraper, and a try square (1978.0205).
Rhoda Lowenberg Maurice: pair of white stockings worn by Rae Hirsch Lowenberg at her wedding on December 15, 1903, and a woman's green net mantle beaded in floral patterns, 1906-10 (1984.0249).
Mayfair Games, Inc. (through Darwin P. Bromley): "“fic-tio-nar-y" board game, 1984 (1984.0985).
Edith P. Mayo: 8 buttons, 2 pennants, 2 decals, a 2-part letter, bumper sticker, invitation, and a T-shirt all from the 20th anniversary "March on Washington,” August, 1983 (1983.0544); woman's bathing suit made by Jantzen, 1955-57 (1983.0646); program from "A Call to Equality, A Service For Equal Rights" held at the Cathedral Church of Saint Peter and Saint Paul in Washington, D.C. on May 9, 1982 (1984.0470); 5-piece "Common Cause Mailing, People Against PACs,” 1984 (1984.0657).
Elizabeth Medinger: box of archival materials from the work of Dr. Atherton Seidell (1977.0875).
Dr. James F. and Sally M. Mello: boutonne woven counterpane (1984.0488).
Robert T. and Rose S. Merriam: silk applique counterpane in leaf and scroll designs made by Jane Alcock, ca. 1730 (1985.0154); marriage license dated December 3, 1786, power of attorney dated April 9, 1798, certificate of membership in the Mercantile Library of Boston dated 1835, and an issue of the Philadelphia Public Ledger newspaper dated March 25, 1836 (1985.0470).
Micro Lab, Inc. (through Susan Goldberg): "Death in the Caribbean” computer game, 1983 (1984.0954).
Robert Miley: 2 pairs of man's high-heeled platform shoes in brown leather and black and white patent leather, both by Thom McCann, 1974 (1984.0348).
Charles W. Millard III: copper tray inscribed with the wedding invitation and a photograph of 5 women from the wedding party of Constance Emily Keppler and Charles W. Millard, Jr. on April 27, 1928 (1984.0409).
Dorothea S. Miller: 2 woman's dresses, 2 petticoats, a robe, and a hat, all mid-20th century (1984.0559).
Mabel Wooster Milstead: woman's petticoat with ruffles and lace, 1870-85 (1982.0436).
Milton Bradley Company, Inc. (through Michael R. Meyers): "Mystery Mansion,” "Bargain Hunter,” "Candy Land,” “Easy Money,” and “Ripley's Believe It or Not" board games and a "Simon" electronic game, 1974-84 (1984.0874).
Government of the Principality of Monaco, Postal Administration: 140 mint stamps and 5 souvenir sheets of Monaco (1984.0272).
Ozella 0. Montague: beaded and sequined evening dress, 1909-13, anda brocaded evening coat with white fur trim, ca. 1925 (1982.0289).
University of Montana, School of Forestry, Montana Forest and Conservation Experiment Station (through Benjamin B. Stout): 11 pieces of surveying apparatus (1984.0636).
John D. Montgomery: case for a 5-string banjo made by William Fitch of Lansing, Michigan after 1905 (1981.0865).
Fran L. Moss: 2 woman's T-shirts made to raise money for New York's Central Park and California beaches and a woman's T-shirt that says "I Love the Big Apple™ (1984.0812).
Galva May and Paul W. Mowrey: Class B Liberty standardized U.S. Army truck, 1918' (1981 .0651).

<<<Page: 358>>>

Frances M. Rudell Moyer: 4 pieces of infant boy's clothing worn by William Rudell, 1907-12, a silver butterfly brooch, 1890-1910, and a necklace made of seeds, 1914 (1983.0375).
Lt. Col. William B. Mozey, Jr.: pewter button for an infantry officer's uniform, post-1854 (1980.0641).
Mrs. John H. Murray: perfume bottle and powder box both of clear yellow glass, 1921 (1983.0654); early 18th-century wood and pewter schoolmaster's rod (1984.0697); 19th-century portrait medallion and an early 20th-century pitcher, butter tub, and pair of salt and pepper shakers, all of coarse earthenware American manufacture (1985.0093).
E. P. Muth, Ph.D: 13 pairs of spectacle frames, a box of 12 lens blanks, and an automatic eyeglass holder (1981.0828).
Susan H. Myers: white ceramic beverage filter patented by Harry B. Wolper on May 22, 1945, and manufactured by Kent Products Company of Chicago, Illinois (1984.0779).
Mrs. Olaf J. Mysse: 4 pension certificates and 2 U.S. Army discharges granted to George T. Hulme, dated 1898-1930 (1978.2163).
National Games, Inc. (through DeLaine 0. Foster and R. G. Foster): “Anti-Monopoly I," "“Anti-Monopoly II," “Profit Farming,” and "Purely Academic,” board games, 1977-83 (1984.0873).
National Womans Party: 2 resolutions for an equal rights for women amendment in Maryland and Connecticut and a photograph of a mural of Margaret Brent appearing before the Elders from the Old State House in St. Mary's, Maryland (1981.0643).
National Women's Political Caucus (through Carol S. Silverthorn): 4 posters, 4 buttons, and a brochure (1982.0155).
The National Yeoman (F) (through Mrs. Irene M. Brown): 12 volumes of The Note Book, June 30, 1979 through December 31, 1983 (1984.0433). is
Florence Neinken: 95 ancient mostly counterstamped coins (1981.1079).
Government of the Netherlands, Postal Department: 9 mint stamps of the Netherlands (1983.0140); 57 mint stamps and 4 souvenir sheets of the Netherlands (1984.0273).
State of New York, Department of Transportation, Engineering Research and Development Bureau (through William P. Chamberlin): 4 samples of natural cement (1984.0906).
Government of New Zealand, Post Office Philatelic Bureau: 18 mint stamps and a mint souvenir sheet of New Zealand (1979.0968); 70 mint stamps from New Zealand (1984.0275); (through G. W. Warner): 17 mint stamps of New Zealand (1983.0134).
Government of Niue, Niue Post Office, Philatelic Bureau: 14 souvenir sheets, 10 mint stamps, and 6 first day covers of Niue (1984.0274).
Joseph A. and Patricia Atkinson Norcross: 2 man's wool and fur coats and a woman's fox fur neckpiece, all late 19th or early 20th century (1980.0548).
Northwestern University (through L. A. Ellis): Seth Thomas tower clock movement, ca. 1879 (1984.0313).
Government of Norway, Postal Administration: 44 mint stamps and 15 first day covers of Norway (1984.0277).
Nova Game Designs, Inc. (through James Rosinus): "Lost Worlds Fantasy Combat Book Game" and “Ace of Aces" book set games, 1983-84 (1984.0973).
Varue W. Oishei: woman's red wool “spiral” coat designed by Ronaldus Shamask, 1981 (1982.0096).
Edward C. Okeriund: Weston Master IV light meter with incident light attachment and case (1984.0664).

<<<Page: 359>>>

Origin Systems, Inc. (through Dave Albert): "“Exodus-Ultima III" fantasy role-playing game and poster, 1983 (1984.1048).
George H. and Mary B. O'Sullivan: wooden fan back piano stool with an adjustable seat made by Holtzman & Son of Columbus, Ohio, late 19th century (1984.0761).
Lillian D. Owen: woman's beige linen-like dress designed by Vera Maxwell, 1959-63 (1982.0282).
Page Belting Company (through John W. Hilger): Watson & Stillman Co. hydraulic pressure pump (1984.0541).
Palmer College of Chiropractic (through W. B. Gehlsen and T. L. Tiemeier): group of 23 photographs, art works, and printed materials, 3 adjusting tables, 2 neurocalometers, a Derma therm-o-graph, and a copy of The Chiropractor's Adjuster (1980.0196). iy
Mildred R. Palmer: 4 silver cups and a silver sidesaddle stirrup from Bolivia, 3 South American earthenware figurines, 2 earthenware bull figurines from Peru, and a pair of stirrups, gourd and silver mate cup on stand with silver drinking straw, crown for-religious figure, and a pin for a poncho from Chile, all late 19th to early 20th century (1984.0758).
Laura E. Patrick: violin made by Giovanni Grancino of Milan, Italy in 1696 (1984 .0976).
Hope Cooper Patterson: wind-up walking toy fox terrier, ca. 1900 €1985.0310):.
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 5 dresses, 3 shawls, 3 caps, 3 pairs of stockings, a riding combination, coat, piece of fabric, hat ribbon, fan, bracelet, brooch, pair of buckles, 2 curling irons, bag with curlers, perfume set, man's dressing case, trunk, and a suitcase all used by Mrs. Patterson and members of her family, 19th and 20th centuries (1980.0815); ll-piece set of amber Venetian glass, 1930s, 9-piece Lenox “Architects' Tea Set," 1933, 4 Wedgwood plates decorated with vignettes of Vassar College buildings, ca. 1929, 4 refined earthenware plates depicting scenes from the life of George Washington, ca. 1932, 3 18th-century German earthenware and pewter tankards, 19th-century porcelain platter made in Meissen, Germany, and a 20th-century Gladding, McBean & Co. ceramic tile (1982.0141); 8 examples of 18th-century Chinese export porcelain, 2 urns and 2 plates made by Samson & Co. of Paris, France, early 20th century, 2 glass bowls made by Salviati & Co. of Murano, Italy in the 1920s, and 2 red earthenware plates marked "1938" (1982.0805); 51 objects of business and personal use reflecting the diplomatic career of Jefferson Patterson and his wife (1983.0667).
Penguin Software (through Mark Glen): “The Coveted Mirror,” "The Quest,” and "Transylvania" computer games and “The Graphic Magician” and “The Complete Graphics System" information programs, 1982-84 (1984.0952).
Pennwalt Corporation, S. S. White Dental Health Products (through Kenneth D. Ferguson, Jr.): dental air abrasive unit used in cavity preparation (1982 .0637).
Government of Penrhyn, Post Office: 3 mint stamps and a souvenir sheet of Penrhyn Island (1983.0210); 20 souvenir sheets, 11 mint stamps, and 6 first day covers of Penrhyn Island (1984.0280).
Cliff Petersen: sectional steam boiler patent model patented by Joseph Harrison, Jr. on October 4, 1859 (1984.0233).
Martin J. A. Petersilia: 25 paper documents from various political rallies, 1983 (1983.0541); 10 programs and information sheets about performances by Laurie James and 2 posters, a newspaper, and a handout about the Equal Rights Amendment and issues for Democrats (1983.0844); 24 paper items, 4

<<<Page: 360>>>

buttons, and a T-shirt from the 20th anniversary “March on Washington,” August 27, 1983 (1984.0455).
Ann Lafferty Pfeiffer: 2 woman's dresses and a suit, 1900-10, a suit and 3-piece ensemble, 1925-30, and a suit from the 1960s (1984.0821).
Pharmaceutical Innovations, Inc. (through Gilbert Buchalter): “Stabilizer” cane and crutch tip invented by Gilbert Buchalter and manufactured by Sci-O-Tech Company (1983.0040). F
Dr. Rilla M. Phillips: woman's collar decorated with white embroidery and scalloped edges, 1900-20 (1982.0290).
Rita McNamara Pleet: woman's coat designed by Donald Brooks and a matching tote bag designed by Judith Leiber, 1967 (1982.0457).
Frances D. and Karl F. Plitt: infant's belly band and pair of stockings, 1947 (1982.0280).
David S. F. and Peter R. Poggioli in memory of Raffaele P. Poggioli (through Mary F. Poggioli): 2 tan cotton shirts and a tan worsted necktie all worn by an Italian officer while in the United Nations service, ca. 1950 G1977,.0985,):.
Penny Poirier: 3 panes of 1981 and 1982 Christmas seals (1983.0030).
Blanche and Harry Polachek: computer printout of the value of Pi to 100,000 decimal places done by D. Shanks and J. W. Wrench in New York on July 29, 1.961. (1:97.7 «019 2))ic
Polyclinic Medical Center, PMC Division of Neonatology (through Michael J. Paszek, M.D.): infant heart rate monitor made by Parks Electronics Laboratory of Beaverton, Oregon (1982.0508).
Harold I. Popp: shorthand stenograph machine, ca. 1882 (1982.0325).
Alice M. Porter: 2 woman's designer dresses by Adrian, 1950 and 1953 (1982.0100); 3 woman's hats from the 1950s (1982.0343); pair of black patent leather ankle strap platform shoes, 1944-49, and a pair of white leather stilleto heel pumps, 1959-64 (1984.0893).
Constance Potter: 8 bumper stickers, 8 pamphlets, a leaflet, paper flag, flyer, booklet, and a memo on various political subjects and a 12-piece information packet about the Susan B. Anthony dollar (1983.0847); woman's blue and yellow Nike brand running shoes, 1979-80 (1984.1086).
Rowa Wornall Powell: hat box with illustrations of Castle Garden, New York while it served as a concert hall, 1824-60 (1983.0383).
William S. Preston, Jr. in memory of William S. Preston: topaz brooch and an aquamarine brooch both worn by Nancy Pierce McNeil, 1820-50 (1984.0016).
John A. Prince: woman's brown floral print dress with cape, 1840s (1984.0577).
Princeton University Observatory (through Jeremiah P. Ostriker and John B. Rogerson, Jr.): Buff & Berger alt-azimuth, Pistor & Martins sextant, U.S. Navy bearing circle and bearing bar, Filar micrometer, double image micrometer, and a photometer (1983.0245).
Gordon Purdy: 25 porcelain “collector's plates" based on scenes from Norman Rockwell paintings, the movie The Wizard of Oz, the circus, and a photograph of Abraham Lincoln, 1970s and 1980s (1984.0497).
Railroaders Memorial Museum (through Robert L. Emerson): telephone/telegraph emergency line hook (1983.0755).
Thomas M. Raysor, Jr.: 3 man's neckties, 2 suits, 2 shirts, and a pair of trousers, 1960s (1984.0612).
Timothy J. Reese: "Spirit of '76/Presidential Inaugural/January 20, 1973, Washington, D.C.” badge (1984.0235).
Dr. Henry Regensteiner in memory of his father Martin Regensteiner, M.D.: Siemen's diathermy device, surgical table-chair, surgical side table,

<<<Page: 361>>>

lamp stand, and 2 heat-light boxes (313050).
Dorita Resnick: woman's heavy beige brocade cape, 1880s (1984.0678).
Lester W. Rice, Jr.: 23 issues of the Aurora General Advertiser of Philadelphia published by B. Franklin Bache, December 1795 to January 1796, an album of Civil War lithographs, and an embossed chromolithographed Valentine, 1880s (1984.0793).
Oscar W. Richards, Ph.D.: Greyson Ruling test slide, a McArthur microscope with 3 glass slides distributed by the Open University of Great Britain as part of a biology course, and a "Superscope” toy microscope made by Learning Things, Inc. (1982.0336).
Louis D. Richardson in memory of George W. Richardson: working half-inch model of a Cornish-type steam pumping engine and boiler built in 1934 by George W. Richardson that was used by the City of Providence, Rhode Island from 1873 until the early 20th century, blueprint and photostat drawing of the engine from which the model was built, Worthington revolution counter, ca. 1892, and a vacuum gauge (1983.0535).
John F. Richey: pantographic engraving machine with 381 pattern pieces (1984.0245).
Irwin J. and Jean L. Richland: 2 black dolls in their original costumes as a male chef and a female maid, ca. 1905 (1984.0631).
Ralph D. Riva: Fahrenheit thermometer advertising weavers' supplies sold by Jacob Walder of Paterson, New Jersey, made by Perfection Thermometer Co. of New York, ca. 1880 (1985.0069).
Franklin Robinson, M.D.: binocular ophthalmoscope and its transformer power supply (1983.0641).
Ward M. Robinson: hooked slide fastener patent model, precursor of the zipper, invented by Whitcomb L. Judson, 1891 (1984.0536).
Robert W. Root: 3 pike blades made for John Brown to be used in slave uprisings in West Virginia, ca. 1859 (1984.0760).
George M. Rosenstein: Jenkins television scanner (1981.0597).
J. William Rosenthal, M.D.: 47 ophthalmic objects (1981.0738); 36 eyeglasses and 26 lenses (1982.0170).
Sonya J. Ross: 2 man's and a woman's T-shirts, 1978 (1984.0866).
Leslie J. Ruben: woman's 3-piece suit designed by Margaret Godfrey and a Pant-her 2-piece pantsuit, both ca. 1976 (1982.0284).
Etta B. Rubenstein: 2 buttons from the Presidential campaign of Eugene McCarthy, 1968 (1984.0445).
C. Bard Rudder, Fred F. Rudder, M.D., and Fred F. Rudder, Jr.: direct blood transfusion device and a mechanical device for the administration of drugs and anesthesia both invented by Fred F. Rudder, M.D., ca. 1937 (1980.0653).
Fath Davis Ruffins: 4 woman's dresses and a man's shirt, all with African “dashiki™ print designs, 1969-72 (1984.0826).
Margaret S. Rusk: 2 woman's blouses and a white dress with cutwork decorations, 1909-13 (1984.0845).
Joy Safer: 2 woman's coats, one designed by Seymour Fox, the other by Originala, 1968-69 (1983.0743).
Elizabeth K. Sanford: girl's brown leather purse, 1879-89 (1984.0030).
Robert C. Sardino: 19 artifacts related to the career of Robert L. Sardino at the Crescent and Paramount Theaters of Syracuse, New York (1984.0789).
Stephen 0. Saxe: 32 composing sticks used to set printer's type, late 19th to early 20th century (1984.0979).
Henry P. Scarupa: man's T-shirt commemorating the 1979 visit of Pope John Paul II to Washington, D.C. (1982.0728).

<<<Page: 362>>>

Catherine and Mary M. Schaefer: 6 "Vortex" metal ice cream plate holders (1984.0645); 3 pin cushions, 2 doilies, a letter dated 1923 stitched to one of the doilies, a pen wiper, and a hexagonal spool box (1984.0732).
A. Ch. and Nadia Schalk: woman's rubber bathing cap made by Kleinerts, 1955-65 (1983.0609).
Mary Ann Scherr: gold and sterling silver heart-sensor necklace with Trach attachment (1979.0488). °
Gail D. Schlaifer: 7 color Polaroid photographs (1984.0747).
Karl E. Schmutzler: letter opener with a bear's claw attached, blade marked "Niagara Falls,” 1900-10 (1984.1100).
Henrietta Schoepflin in honor of the Merle Hazzard Weible Family: woman's blue and white striped umbrella, 1750-1830 (1983.0037).
Schulmerich Carillons, Inc. (through Ronald 0. Beach): 25 handbells developed and patented by Jacob Kunz and the first set manufactured by Schulmerich Carillons, Inc., 1962 (1984.0763).
Mrs. Valyre Potier See in memory of Mr. and Mrs. Raphael G. Potier: white damask towel commemorating the U.S. Centennial of 1876 (1984.0489).
Gloria L. and Ira Seiler, M.D.: 7 porcelain figures made by Cybis of Trenton, New Jersey in the 1960s (1984.1094).
Phillip Seitz: 2 phonograph records (1984.0775).
Wilma Scheer Selders: platinum and gold flute and an extra gold head joint with cases for each and a case cover for the flute, made by the William Haynes Co. of Boston, 1949 (1984.0924).
Carl A. Sferrazza: 5 pairs of man's trousers, 4 neckties, 2 sweaters, 2 shirts, a jacket, headband, and a pair of gloves, 1974-80 (1983.0819).
David H. Shayt: architect's rule made by Dexter Brothers of Boston, Massachusetts (1983.0237); thread box for thread made by the Willimantic Linen Company and a linens marker labeled Clark's Indelible Pencil, patented July 10, 1866 (1985.0155).
Jonn W. Shuman IV: first portable inhalation gas anesthesiology machine built by Arthur E. Guedel, M.D., ca. 1930 (1983.0108).
Jane E. Shure: pair of girl's Calvin Klein blue denim jeans, 1980-81 (1982.0248); 10 pieces of woman's sports clothing, a stick pin, purse, and a man's jacket designed by Halston, 1970s (1983.0651); 18 items of infant's and children's clothing, 1979-84 (1985.0041).
Sierra On-Line, Inc. (through Larry Archer and Robert Schneider): "“B. C.'s Quest for Tires," “Oil's Well," and “Time Zone” computer games, 1981-33 (1984 .0972).
Philip Sills: 34 patterns and 33 pieces of clothing and accessories designed by Bonnie Cashin, 1954-77 (1979.1261).
Caroline T. Simmons: leather shirtcase and calling card case both with the initials of S. Fosdick Jones, 1910-30 (1982.0725).
Don R. Simmons: piece of Brinkerhoff ribbon wire (321659).
Nancy Brenner Sinnott: light blue knit infant's bathing trunks, 1931-82 (1983 .0650).
Walter Byron Smalley (through Benjamin M. Leighton): 8 phonograph records (1983.0818).
Jean L. Smith: 13-piece goucho costume obtained by Lewis E. St. John in Argentina, ca. 1865 (1978.0345).
Stephen P. and Virginia B. Smith: patchwork throw with printed flags, anthems, and costumes of various nations, early 20th century (1980.08383).
Verna E. Smith: 15 documents and a high school ring recording the public school education of Ms. Smith on Long Isiand, New York, 1934-47 (1984 .0647); wicker laundry basket, 1899s, and a doll's folding wooden

<<<Page: 363>>>

laundry rack, 1930s (1984.0650); 4 amber glass carpet protectors made by the Hazel-Atlas Glass Company of Wheeling, West Virginia in the 1930s (1984.0728); brass thimble contained in its original box, made in England (1984 .0829). ;
Snyder Associates, Inc. (through Jean M. Snyder): mobile biomass gasifier fueled with wood chips, 1980-82 (1984.0596).
Mary Louise Snyder: silk pieced-work quilt, late 19th century (1984.1059).
Sturgis A. Sobin: Hough's Security Cash Recorder wooden cash register made in South Butler, New York, ca. 1893 (1983.0881).
Janet W. Solinger: woman's red crepe dress designed by John Kloss, 1968, red knit dress designed by Jeanne Lanvin, 1970, and a T-shirt decorated with a sequined parrot designed by Jones New York, 1972-73 (1984.01838); 2 woman's dresses designed by Albert Nipon, a dress by Calvin Klein, blouse by Koo van den Akker, and a skirt by Jones New York, 1970s (1984.1036).
Virginia M. Solt: woman's white CLES BIEN Se 1905 (1983.0849).
Morris Speizman: 79 examples of men's, women's, and children's hosiery showing 20th-century hosiery knitting machine techniques (1985.0032).
Philip D. Spiess II: powder bag used to whiten buck shoes, made by Bunny Products Co., Inc. of Indianapolis, Indiana, 1950-59 (1982.0097).
St. Martin's-In-The-Field (through Rev. Daniel W. Eckman, Jr.): child's T-shirt designed by junior counselors and worn by all children attending the church's Christian Summer Day Camp, 1982 (1982.0726).
Benjamin, Harvey G., and Norman Stack: 149 silver and bronze Middle Eastern and Indian coins (1984.0147).
Helen M. Stackhouse: 7 pieces of children's clothing, 1911-20 (1982.0245).
Spiros G. Stamelos, M.D.: 7 silver coins issued in ancient Judaea with portraits of Ptolemy I (1979.1247).
Stanford University School of Medicine, Department of Medical Microbiology (through Stanley Falkon and Caroline Nardini): 3 microtomes with 22 related parts (1981.0812).
Mrs. Robert B. Stephens: length of Spitalfields brocaded silk and a silk-embroidered picture, both 18th century, a Leonard family record sampler dated 1827, a sampler memorializing Guni Goodale dated 1832, and a Skillin family genealogy sampler dated 1835 (1983.0617); 6 early 20th-century Amish quilts from Pennsylvania, Indiana, and Ohio (1985.0029).
Nancy E. Stewart: woman's mourning ring of woven hair mounted in gold dedicated to "J.D." who died on April 20, 1828 at age 74 (1984.0736).
Elizabeth D. Stone: woman's slip from the wedding trousseau of Elizabeth Gamble married July 13, 1912 (1983.0717); boy's cane or riding crop with horse head figure at top, 1872-75 (1984.0464).
Dorothea M. Strang: 2 woman's chemises, one of pale yellow satin with light brown lace and the other of pink crepe with tan lace, 1920-30 (1984.0956).
Dr. Joseph G. Strawitz: violin made by Robert E. Weber of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, ca. 1930 (1984.1133).
Cornelia Pickens Suhler: embroidered canvas-work rug made by Madame Nikolay Rimsky—Korsakoff (1984.0181).
Janice E. Summons: 11 examples of woman's clothing from the 1970s (1982.0747).
Mrs. Wm. Sutherland: woman's black silk satin jacket, 1903-08 (1983.0093).
Government of Sweden, The Swedish Post Office, Stamps and Philatelic Service: 1,345 mint stamps, 189 first day covers, 30 maximum cards, 15 souvenir sheets, 12 aerogrammes, and 6 post cards of Sweden (1984.0278).
Syntex Dental Products, Inc., Den-Tal-Ez Manufacturing Co. (through Melvin

<<<Page: 364>>>

D. Booth and John L. Naughton): the first reclining dental chair invented and built by John L. Naughton of Des Moines, Iowa in 1958 and the 100,000th reclining dental chair built by Den-Tal-Ez Manufacturing Co. in Bay Minette, Alabama, 1981 (1982.0465).
Syracuse University, S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications (through John James Brucha): a pantographic matrix engraving machine used by Fredric William Goudy, ca. 1920 (1984.0737).
Dr. Hans Syz: 2 coffee pots with covers, 2 tea caddies with covers, 2 pairs of cups and saucers, 2 pairs of tea bowls and saucers, sugar box with cover, sugar bowl with cover, tea bowl, and a plate, all 18th century Meissen porcelain (1982.0796); 74 pieces of 18th-century Meissen porcelain (1983.0565); fragment of a porcelain tureen made in Meissen, Germany, 1730-35 (1983.0752); 46 pieces of 18th-century Meissen porcelain (1984.1140).
Arthur E. Tarantino: Dalton adding, listing, and calculating machine with base and stand, 1916-22 (1984.0492).
Vernon E. Tate: 2 Seidell plastic single-eye viewers for microphotographs (1977 .0874).
Taylor Backes, Inc.: blown colorless studio glass vase decorated by sandblasting into grid-like patterns, made by William Dexter in 1979 C1989) 0255)F
Jack Howard Taylor, Ph.D.: color photograph of the spectrum by Gabriel Jonas Lippman, ca. 1908, KB’ crystal grown by Dr. John Strong in 1929, and an astronomical mirror made by Prof. Philip S. Fogg in 1931 and coated with evaporated aluminum by Dr. Strong in 1932 (1985.0521).
J. H. Taylor, M.D. and Karen C. Taylor: mid-19th-century Brussels applique lace shawl (1984.1120).
Mary Kathleen Taylor: woman's quilted grey robe, 1867-85 (1982.0582).
Colonel Harry D. Temple: ROTC insignia for Fork Union Military Academy designed by Colonel Temple (310957).
Eleanor Lee Templeman: 4 cartes de visite portraits of Robert E. Lee, General Beauregard, Mrs. Jefferson Davis, and Jefferson Davis in cartoon style, Civil War period (1984.0908).
Andrew C. Teter: 3 pamphlets about The Rainbow Nation, 2 rainbow flags of the International Co-operative Alliance, The Market Place newspaper, and a button from the "March on Washington,” 1963 (1983.0592).
Jan and R. S. Thomas: woman's fan commemorating the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia (1983.0094).
Stephen M. Tiber: 3 man's jackets, 3 neckties, and a 3-piece suit, 1973-75 (1983 20713).
Marilee Tillstrom: box labeled "E. Burnham Importer of Hair Goods,” a shopping bag, 1975, and a Stanley pen labeled “Jerry Silverman,” 1960-30 (1982.0435); 9 items of woman's accessories, pair of man's shoes with box, and a girl’s overalls, blouse, and shoes, 20th century (1984.1089).
Timex Computer Corporation (through Daniel D. Ross): Timex Sinclair 1000 personal computer, ca. 1982 (1983.0289).
Marcelle Lapow Toor: 20 black and white beach scene photographs by Harry Lapow (1984.0658).
Mary S. Torbik: woman's black imitation sealskin cloth coat, 1919-24 6193520013).
Naomi W. Towner: 3 Jacquard woven silk portraits of Janet Gaynor and Greta Garbo together, Bette Compson, and Charles Lindbergh, 1930s (1985.0160).
Jeanette Residor Traten: porcelain plate in “Washington-Wakefield” pattern made by Lenox China, Inc., ca. 1930, reproduced from 18th-century

<<<Page: 365>>>

fragments excavated at the George Washington birthplace estate of Wakefield (1982.0145).
TSR, Inc. (through Dieter Sturm): "Dungeons & Dragons" fantasy role-playing game, 1983 (1984.1031).
Hobert W. and Virginia A. Turner: concert roller organ with 34 rolls, late 19th century, C. F. Martin guitar, 1913, and a Gibson mandolin, early 20th century (1984.0843).
Lillian Turner: woman's silver fox jacket, 1940 (1983.0719).
Turrell Uleman: chloride of silver battery set in a wooden case, ca. 1910 (1983 .0747).
The Ungame Company (through Lew Herndon): "Credit Ability," "Social Security,” and "The Ungame” board games, 1975-80 (1984.0962).
Government of the United Arab Emirates, Ministry of Communications, General Postal Administration, Philatelic Bureau: 2 mint stamps of the United Arab Emirates (1983.0057); The Post Office, Postal Headquarters, Philatelic Section: 53 mint stamps of the United Arab Emirates (1984 .0268).
United Methodist Homes of New Jersey, Pitman Manor (through Carl Baker): examining table, electrical device, trash container, and a Hamilton suction apparatus (1980.0981).
United Nations, Postal Administration: 2,754 mint stamps, 16 souvenir sheets, 8 post cards, and 4 air letter sheets of the United Nations (1984 .0279).
Universal Electric Company (through Gary M. Kruzman): Bullard Mult-Au-Matic 6-station boring machine used from 1919-82 and 2 cast iron workpieces (1984 .0380).
Unknown: Sharp model EL-8 calculator with adapter (1982.0656); 2 Japanese first day covers (1983.0528); girl's hat, boy's cap, and a pair of woman's sunglasses, 1983-84 (1984.0329).
UOP, Inc. (through John David Culton): watchman's time clock made by E. Howard and Company of Boston (1982.0598); (through John D. Culton and David 0. Stephens): architect's level, pocket railroad compass with alidade attachment, surveyor's transit, and a set of mining lamps all made by W. & L. E. Gurley of Troy, New York, 2 tripod caps made by C. L. Berger & Sons, a Lufkin Rule Co. woven tape, a Chicago Co. steel tape, and an unmarked ball joint and socket (1982.0701); (through R. M. Baratta): 6-piece fire alarm system made by the Gamewell Fire Alarm Telegraph Co., ca. 1880, 2 Leeds and Northrup potentiometers, ca. 1930, a Ball generator, ca. 1884, Cooper Hewitt mercury-vapor light fixture, ca. 1907, General Electric transformer, and a police call box (1983.0319).
U.S.. American Revolution Bicentennial Administration: 6 pewter and 5 silver plaquettes from "The Bicentennial History of the United States Ingot Series” issued by the Franklin Mint (1983.0681).
U.S. Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Institute of Heraldry (through Jacob D. Tomlinson): 42 distinctive unit insignia and 12 shoulder sleeve insignia (1983.0704); (through Margaret M. Moore): 33 distinctive unit insignia crests (1984.0330); The US Army Band (Pershing's Own), ANTUSAB (through Col. Eugene W. Allen): pair of U.S. Army Band insignia crests (1982.0722); (through SP6 Michael R. Calloway): pair of women's unit crests of the U.S. Army Band and a brass hat badge marked “Pershing's Own" (1983.0359).
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, National Institutes on Arthritis, Diabetes, Digestive, and Kidney Diseases, Laboratories of Chemistry and

<<<Page: 366>>>

Bioorganic Chemistry (through Cyrus R. Creveling, Ph.D.): 61 German hydrometers (1984.0046).
U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service (through Peter A. Anastasi): 5 stamp panes and 5 die proofs for Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation federal revenue stamps, 1978-83 seasons (1983.0212); pane of 30 stamps and the die proof for the 1983-84 season of Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation federal revenue stamps (1983.0635).
U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration, Transportation Test Center (through Wade D. Dorland): RS-1 road switcher diesel locomotive built by the American Locomotive Company in 1942 (1983.0505).
U.S. Department of the Treasury, U.S. Mint (through Donna Pope): 26 coins issued by the U.S. Mint, 1980-81 (1983.0678); 2 5-piece sets of 1983 U.S. proof coins (1983.0679).
U.S. Federal Maritime Commission: Kelvin-White folding parallel rule used on ships to read charts (1984.1002).
U.S. Panama Canal Commission (through F. A. Cotton): 7 pieces of Minton china, 6 pieces of silverware, and a crystal goblet and wine glass used as official service by the Panama Canal Government (1984.0127); General Services Bureau (through Col. Robert D. Banning): 36,849 stamps, covers, postal stationery, proofs, models, dies, art, designs, sketches, and philatelic material illustrating the postal history of the Panama Canal Zone (1983.0125).
U.S. Postal Service (through William F. Bolger): philatelic cover carried aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger, August 30 September 5, 1983 (1983.0527); Customer Service Department (through Jack Williams): pane of 50 stamps, 3 American Society of Civil Engineers first day of issue cacheted covers, and a program celebrating the centennial of the opening of the Brooklyn Bridge, May 24, 1983 (1983.0556); Office of International Postal Affairs, International Relations Branch (through Michael J. Regan): 5,392 stamps, 96 souvenir sheets, 11 mini sheets, 10 presentation folders, 2 panes, and 2 first day covers from the People's Republic of China, Guernsey, India, Japan, Spain, Spanish Andorra, and Spanish Sahara (1984.0282); Stamp Management Branch, Stamps Division (through James R. Williams): 3,750 mint stamps, 108 souvenir pages, 42 commemorative panels, 36 souvenir cards, 24 stamped envelopes, 15 post cards, 3 air letter sheets, and a proof sheet (1983.0138); 42 commemorative panels of U.S. stamps (1984.0281).
U.S. Veterans Administration Medical Center 622 (through Georgia Simmons): deep body rectal thermometer in wooden case, ca. 1945 (1982.0217).
Mrs. Forest E. Vail: leather ration book container with meat tokens, gas coupons, ration books, and an application form, WW II (1984.0215).
Pablo E. Vasquez: 2 pairs of boots, a calf and goatskin boot, an alligator leather boot, and a partially made boot in 2 fragments, all made by Mr. Vasquez in 1962 and 1983 (1983.0721).
Ruth F. Venable: blue bisque porcelain egg and stand hand-painted with enamel and gilt by Mrs. Venable in 1974 (1984.0722).
University of Virginia, Alderman Library, Manuscript Department (through Michael Plunkett): 3 towels and a tablecloth of woven linen and a ball of homespun linen yarn all made by women of the Pitman family of Shenandoah County, Virginia (1984.1055); Chemical Engineering Department (through Dolly Prenzel and J. D. Sims): 10 temperature recording and controlling devices (1982.0089).
Vital Signs, Inc. (through T. I. Wall): Downs CPAP clear soft cushion face
We ON Ley)

<<<Page: 367>>>

mask, equalizer headstrap with constant force cartridges, and a PEEP valve with adapter all used in the administration of anesthesia (1983.0740).
Robert M. Vogel: photograph of the Brooklyn Bridge when work on the promenade deck framing was started in the summer of 1882 (1984.0771); Duval Hunter's Catalogue of Oleograph Publications for the season of 1873-74 (1984.0774).
Maria von Matthiessen: 13 photographic portraits (1984.0666).
Voter Education Project, Inc. (through Sherrill Marcus): 5 posters that encourage people to register and vote (1980.0151).
Mrs. Elizabeth F. Vough: pink and white art glass kerosene lamp made by Mount Washington Glass Company, 1886-94, converted to electricity after 1902 by Hazel-Atlas Glass Company (1981.1080).
Janet Wallach: 12 examples of man's and woman's clothing, 1970-80 (1982.0449); 3 pairs of woman's panties by Jockey and a pair of man's shorts by Calvin Klein, 1984 (1984.0468).
Gretchen Hoffman Waltman: man's shirt cuff and a woman's handkerchief, both souvenirs of the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia (1984.0033).
Margery T. Ware: 6 infant's shirts, 1854-56, 2 man's vests, 1852, a man's handkerchief, and a spool of J. & P. Coats thread (1984.0336).
Washington Adventist Hospital, Department of Surgery (through Minota Stevens): Hoffman apparatus in metal case (1981.0246).
Waterbury Companies, Inc. (through David S. Ebersole): 417 19thand 20th-century button dies made by the Scovill Manufacturing Company of Waterbury, Connecticut and 9 drawers designed to hold the dies (1983 .0422); 35 dies for the manufacture of buttons for the U.S. Geological Survey, U.S. Forest Service, U.S. Fish Commission, and U.S. Customs (1983.0536); 17 dies for making buttons for the U.S. Post Office Department (1984.0574).
Joan Pearson Watkins: black fur muff, ca. 1915, and 3 pairs of woman's sunglasses and a mink hat, 1960-65 (1982.0111); gray and white herringbone twill raincoat worn by Lura Woodside Watkins, 1905-10 (1983.0252); printed textile from eastern India (1983.0619); pair of woman's unbleached canvas espadrille shoes made by Grasshoppers, 1977 (1983.0798); woman's blue leather loafer shoes by Pappagallo, 1973-78 (1984 .0234).
Stanley E. Weaver: bright pink crepe dress designed by Cristobal Balenciaga in 1965 and a red knit skirt designed by Norman Norell in 1963 (1983 .0339); in memory of Norman Norell: woman's black alligator shoes, 1968 ((1983.0199)..
Lucy H. Webb: gas refrigerator made by Servel, Inc., 1926-56, anda Rubbermaid white plastic container, post-WW II (1984.0950).
Ben H. Weil: collection of 19 volumes of mint postage stamps, envelopes, and souvenir sheets relating to the United Nations and its agencies and programs and a complete collection of used United Nations stamps and souvenir cards (323592).
Rosa Weinstein: suction carpet sweeper made by Keeves Vacuum Cleaner Co. of Milford, Connecticut, 1900-10 (1984.0994).
Sharlene Weldon: woman's bibbed apron imprinted with a decorative pattern for needlepoint work, 1983 (1984.0187).
Joseph Whitehill: horizontal single cylinder steam mill engine model (1984.0412).
Betty V. Williams: automatic embroidery attachment for a sewing machine and a sheet of instructions for its use (1983.0621).

<<<Page: 368>>>

Verna Forbes Willson in memory of John Sherman Peyton: tintype of people listening to an electronic recording device, ca. 1890 (1981.0317).
Dean S. Wilson: man's 3-piece navy blue suit and a pair of brown loafer shoes, both made by Brooks Brothers, 1974-76 (1984.0502).
C. Norman Witte, M.D.: telephone timer (1983.0746).
Robert J. Witzel: 13 studio portrait tintype photographs (1985.0227).
Laurance Wolfe: tinted tintype photograph (1983.0795).
Gordon K. and Margreta J. Woods: transit and tripod used to survey irrigation canals in Montana in the late 19th century made by W. & L. E. Gurley of Troy, New York (1984.0118).
Helena E. Wright: chromolithograph of a faith, hope, and charity theme published by True & Co. of Augusta, Maine, 1878 (1984.0773).
Adele P. Yoka: 5-inch length of rope which was part of the ring for the Dempsey-Tunney championship heavyweight boxing match held September 23, 1926, in Philadelphia (1984.0634).
Betty M. Zakarian: woman's pale pink silk satin and fur evening coat, ca. 1925 (193320652).
Charlotte and David E, Zeitlin: 2 covered coffeepots, a chocolate pot, mug, and a figure of a woman standing, all examples of 18th-century English creamware (1984.0378); 6 examples of 18th-century English earthenware (1984.1119).
David E. Zeitlin: 2 tea caddies with relief-molded decorations designed by Daniel Greatbatch and made by Whieldon-Wedgwood in England, 1755-65, an English creamware teapot and tea caddy wih polychrome floral decorations, 1770-90, and a late 18th-century English plain creamware pitcher (1983 .0820). é
Mary Zellick: tablecloth with matching napkin, pillowcase, and a bedspread, all made of linen (1978.0349).
Charles H. Zierdt, Ph.D.: 76 phonograph records (1984.0569).
Max M-K Zung, M.D.: anesthesia machine and 14 pieces of related equipment, Ga~ 1950° (1983 0209).

<<<Page: 369>>>

National Portrait Gallery Donors to the Collection
Dr. Kurt A. Adler Alexander Alland, Sr. Charles N. Andreae Frederick R. Bell
Alfred Bendiner Foundation Lispenard Seabury Crocker Mrs. Janet Bissell Dimond Mr. Lionel C. Epstein
Ms. Gertrude Fehl
Mr. Stuart P.. Feld
Gouldsboro Historical Society and Dorcas Library of Prospect Harbor, Maine
John D. Hatch III
Mr. Jack Henderson
Algernon Sidney Holderness, Jr.
Jem Hom
Life Magazine
Marliese and Sylvester March
Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
The Thomas More Society of America
Neikrug Photographica Ltd.
Mr. Martin Peretz
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie J. Schreyer
Mr. Abraham Joel Tobias
Chauncey L. Waddell
Westinghouse Electric Corporation
Mr. John Wheeler
Mrs. Craig Wylie

<<<Page: 370>>>

National Portrait Gallery Donors of Financial Support
Aspen Hill Homemakers
The Barra Foundation, Inc.
CBS Television Network
Eastman Kodak Company
Eastman Memorial Foundation, Lauren Rogers Museum of Art The T. M. Evans Foundation, Inc.
The Gilan Foundation
Paula L. Goldsmid
Gulf States Paper Corporation
James D. Heiple
The Clarence and Jack Himmel. Foundation
The Lachaise Foundation
Beverly J. Lang
Chester H. Lasell
Lilly Endowment, Inc.
Louis LoMonaco
Katie L. Louchheim
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
The New Republic Inc.
Nor-Va Cedarettes
Martin Peretz
Chlorinda V. Russo
Margaret L. Smith
The Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund, The New York Community Trust The Swann Foundation for Caricature & Cartoon Time-Life Books Inc.
University of California, Riverside
Office of Museum Programs Donors of Financial Support
W. K. Kellogg Foundation grant for programs to "Expand the Educational Influence of Museums."
Educational Outreach Funds for:
Workshop: "Policy and Management for Directors and Trustees of African American Museums
Workshop: "Exhibition Design and Production": A Three-Part Professional Training Opportunity for Tribal Museum Senior Staff

<<<Page: 371>>>

OFFICE OF HCRTICULTURE Donors to National Orchid Collection
Mrs. Victor Alfaro: 260 orchid plants and 35 assorted tropical plants. Dodane to the Trees of Christmas Ornament Collection
Ellen Doak Winslow: 57 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "French Ribbon Tree.”
Friends of Counted Embroidery, New Jersey, Colorado, and Connecticut, 396 decorations for the Christmas tree “Counted Embroidery.”
Mary B. Martin: 193 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "American Colonial Designs.”
Hilda Geuther: 131 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "Shell Tree.”
New Mexico Extension Homemakers Council: 200 decorations for the Christmas tree “New Mexico.”
Roberta J. Kieliger: 206 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "Teddy Bear Tree.”
Mary B. Licari: 96 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "One Family's Tradition.”
Hazel Logue and Deborrah Logue Price: 358 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree “Family Craft Tree.”
Ikebana International, Washington, D.C. Chapter No. 1: 376 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree “Japanese Origami.”
The Genesee Valley Fiber Guild of Flint, Michigan: 321 handmade
‘decorations for the Christmas tree “Weaver's Tree.”
Ralph and Tinka Brinton, and their children Heather, Wendie, Alicia, and Ralph: 193 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree "Family Heritage.”
Highland County Senior Citizens Center, Hillsboro, Ohio, 341 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree “Appalachian Tree.”
Donor to the Library Collection Ikebana International, Washington, D.C. Chapter No. 1: A collection of 19 hardbound books spanning 30 years of instruction in the Art of Ikebana floral design. Also, 59 issues of Ikebana International, 1959-1983.
Donors to the Wire Frame Collection
Bruce Buntin: 1 wire floral frame in the form of a lyre. Robert S. Judd: 1 wire floral frame in the form of a chariot.
Donors to the Garden Furnishings Collection
Jeanne P. Medici: 10 cast iron fence finials, 1 white metal angel figure, and 1 stone garden figure.
Donors of Financial Support
Mary L. Ripley ($1000) Evelyn Kidwell ($50) Carola Meller ($10)

<<<Page: 372>>>

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES Donors to the Collections Individuals
Boardman, Richard S.: papers of Richard S. Boardman
Brooks, Jane: papers of Robert A. Brooks
Coan, Eugene: taped reminiscences of Myra Keen
Cooper, Gustav Arthur: taped reminiscences
Cowan, Richard S.: papers of Richard S. Cowan
E1-Baz, Farouk: papers of Farouk E1-Baz
Giacconi, Riccardo: papers of Riccardo Giacconi
Keen, Myra: taped reminiscences
Kier, Porter M.: papers of Porter M. Kier
Klapthor, Margaret B.: taped reminiscences
Lundeberg, Philip K.: papers of Philip K. Lundeberg
Reingold, Nathan: papers of Nathan Reingold
Ripley, S. Dillon: papers of S. Dillon Ripley
Rosenberg, Dorothy: papers of Dorothy Rosenberg
Shasky, Donald R.: taped reminiscences of S. Stillman Berry
Soderstrom, Thomas R.: papers of Thomas R. Soderstrom
Stewart, T. Dale: taped reminiscences
Tharp, Marie: papers of Bruce C. Heezen
Walkinshaw, Lawrence H.: papers of L. H. Walkinshaw
Watson, George E.: papers of Alexander Wetmore
Watson, George E.: papers of George E. Watson
Williams, Austin B.: papers of Austin B. Williams
Wright, A. Gilbert: taped reminiscences
Yochelson, Ellis L.: papers of Ellis L. Yochelson
Donors to the Collections Institutions
American Ornithologists' Union: records of the Union
American Society of Zoologists: records of the Society
Animal Behavior Society: records of the Society
Atlantic Estuarine Research Society: records of the Society
Colonial Waterbird Group: records of the Group
Entomological Society of Washington: records of the Society
Estuarine Research Society: records of the Society
International Union of Directors of Zoological Gardens: records of the Union
Museum Education Roundtable: records of the Roundtable

<<<Page: 373>>>

Les)
Donors to the Collection
Richard Ahlborn: Papers from the 4th & 5th Annual Meetings of the Gypsy
Dr. Dan Hal
Lore Society, North American Chapter.
J. Lawrence Angel: Bibliography of Kuru.
Appleman: The Chemistry of Imperfect Crystals, vol. 1, 2nd rev. ed. Banks: Natural Regions of the United States and Canada.
Silvio Bedini: Campani, Giuseppe. Discorso intorno a' suio muti
oriuoli (1660). Edizioni il Polifilo, 1983, and 5 other books.
Dale M. Bentz: Captain Sword and Captain Pen. reprint ed.
Maciolek Blake: Georges Bank Benthic Infauna Monitoring Program.
Executive Summary Report for lst Year of Sampling; Final Report (Year 1); Final Report (Year 2).
Marion C. Blois: Spring Wildflowers of Northern Virginia: a checklist.
Dr. Dr.
Daniel J. Boorstin: 5 cartons of books. Joseph E. Borokowski: 32 books.
Walter Boyne: several books and journals. Stephanie Brandes: 7 books.
Mario Buatta: Description dés Arts et Metiers faite on approuvee par MM.
Mrs. Dr. Dr. Tom Lil
de l'Académie des Sciénces: Tomes 1-113 et Suoplements 1-3. Robert C. Byars: McGuffey's Eclectic Readers, 5 vols. Julian Campbell: The Land of Cane and Clover.
David Challinor: 26 journals.
Chase: 4 books.
Chesnes: 5 books.
Martin Chudnoff: Tropical Timbers of the World.
Drs DY. Mr.
Gates Clarke: National Geographic Society Research Reports. 21 vols.
Roy Clarke: Meteorites: Their Record of Early Solar-System History. and Mrs. Ralph Colin: various journal issues.
Joseph G. Contento: 3 books on tapestry.
Dr. DE. Dr.
Dr. DY.
Richard Cowan: 9 books.
Richard Crombie: Travels of William Bartram.
Jose Cuatrecasas: Checklist of the Herbaceous Spveratophytes of the Caribbean Archipelago.
Teri L. Davis: Learning About Ourselves: Readings in Anthropology.
Robert De Filipps: Our Green and Growing World.
Edward De Pasquale: 18 boxes of books, auction catalogues, magazines,
and exhibition catalogues.
Bern Dibner: The Manuscript Papers of British Scientists, 1600-1940. Mildred A. Doss: Colibries y Orquideas de Mexico.
A. Draegerman: 5 books.
Richard Drake: 4 books.
Llot Schools. Bustorieal!
Dreesen: United States Naval Test Pilo 5-1983.
narrative and class information, 194

<<<Page: 374>>>

Don Duckworth: 7 books.
Dr. A. Elzanowski: Nova Acta Leopoldina, vol. 33, no. 182.
Dr. Carl Ernst: 3 books.
Dr. Richard Eyde: 7 books.
Dr. Robert Faden: Integrated Project in Arid Lands. Technical Revorts D1-D4.
Jim Ferraiolo: Mineralogy and Petrogenesis of Layered Pegmatite-Aplite Dikes in the Mesa Grande District, San Diego, California.
Dr. William Fitzhugh: microfiche set of the bibliographic holdings of the Elmer Rasmusson Library, We Have Eaten the Forest. The Story of a Montagnard Village in the Central Highlands of Vietnam.
Dr. Michael Fleischer: gift subscription to International Geology Review with back issues.
Richard Foote: 30 books.
Paul Forman: Evolution of Naval Radio-Electronics and Contributions to
the Naval Research Laboratory.
Dr. Kurt Fredriksson: several journal issues.
Dick Froeschner: Psyllidae of Taiwan.
Raymond Gagne: Insect Ultrastructure, vol. 2.
J. Roy Galloway: Journey From Madras, 3 vols., 1807, and Valentia, George,
Viscount, Voyages and Travels to India, Ceylon, The Red Sea, Abyssinia,
and Egypt, in the Years 1802, 1803, 1804, 1805, and 1806, 3 vols., London, 1809, and Indian Sporting Birds. 1915.
Paul Garber: 2 books.
Edward Garnier: 2 sound recordings of frog calls.
Ann Golovin: 8 books.
Janet Gomon: Guild of Natural Science Illustrators. Constitution and Bylaws, and a complete run of the guild's Newsletter.
Mrs. Olivia Antoinette Griscom: The Book of Common Prayer. 1762.
Dr. Eric Grissell: Issledovaniia vo entomofaune Severo-Vostoka SSSR.
Nancy Gwinn: "Organization" Principles and Practices. Microficne edition.
Mabel Haynes: Haynes, F.B., The Separation of Isotopes, Seminar, March
1936; The "VT" or Radio Proximity Fuze, for Applied Physics Laboratory,
Johns Hopkins University.
Shan-an He: Flora of Jiangsu Province (last volume).
Edward P. Henderson: Die Erzmineralien und Ihre Verwachsungen and Abundance or Chemical Elements.
Brooke Henley: 3 books.
Anthony Hepton: Honolulu Botanic Garden Inventory, 1984.
Mr. and Mrs. Maxime Hermanos: L'Eau Forte, 2 vols.; Mr. Vanderbilt's House and Collection, 94 vols., 1883-84.
John Hicks: Christmas Crabs.
Elaine Hodges: NOAA Technical Report NMFS Circ, nos. 384, 386, 394, 397.
Linda Hollenberg: Threatened and Endangered Plants and Animals of
Maryland.

<<<Page: 375>>>

Paul Hollister:
13 books.
Dr. Richard S. Houbrick: The Cultured Pearl: Jewel of Japan.
Otto Huber: Interrelaciones Suclos-Vegetacion en el Area de Galipero. Dr. Regina Hughes: Tidal Marsh Plants.
Leo Joel: Die Volker der Erde. Kerry Joels: NASA, the First 25 Years, 1958-1983. A Resource for
-Teachers.
Dr. David Johnson: Gosse Bird Club Broadsheet, nos. 1-37.
Jeff Jorgenson:
Convention in International Trade in Endangered Species
of Wild Fauna and Flora, 2 copies.
Dr. Ivan Karp:
27 books on African history and politics.
Mrs. A. Kayaloff: various catalogues and journals.
Dr. James E. Keirans: 18 books.
Harry Kemp: 2 books.
Captain Joseph F. Kent: Taschenbuch der Luftflotten, 1915.
Florence Kern: John Kingsolver: Industry.
Marcia Knudson:
9 books. Punched Cards: Their Avplications to Science and
To Preserve the Sense of Earth From Space.
Dr. Karl Krombein: The Members and History of the Washington Biolgists'
Field Club.
1984.
Jane Lamlein: 5 books. Beverly Lang: 4 books.
Esper S. Larson:
The Minerology and Paragenesis of the Variscite Nodules
from Near Fairfield Utah.
Russ Lee: 1 issue of Ultralight Pilot.
Leo Lerman: several boxes of catalogues, exhibtion notices, press releases, announcements, and magazines.
Dr. Harilaos Lessios: A Text-book of General Astronomy for Colleges and
Scientific Schools. Amy Levin: Geoscience Information Society Proceedings, vols. 12,13.
Richard Leyes:
Aeroplane Instruments, pts. 1,2.
Rick Leyes: 9 books.
Dr. Hui-Lin Li:
Contributions to Botany.
Donald Lopez: Chennault's Flying Tigers, 1941-1945, vol. ll.
Karl Lundeberg:
2 books.
Charles D. Lungren: 11 books.
Russell Lynes:
105 books on etiquette and household management.
Dr. Robert Maloy: 9 books.
Dr. Joe Marshall: 2 books.
Ted Maxwell: Dynamics of Ice Cover.
Dr. Roy McDiarmid: The Behavior and Ecology of the two Amazonian
Tortoises, Geochelone Cartonaria and Geochelone Denticulata, in
Northwestern Brasil.
Dr. James Mello:
An Illustrated History of Biology.
Dr. S. Okechukwu Mezu: Nigerian Vignettes. 2 copies.

<<<Page: 376>>>

William D. Middleton: The Time of the Trolley. Charles J. Murphy: 21 books. Shri Kanak Nanavaty: Mandalas volume (given in honor of S.D. Ripley).
Dr. Dan Nicolson: Icones Aroideae et Reliquiae. Alphabetical Index, and Schott's Drawings. IDC.
Elizabeth Neilsen: Seismographic Networks: Problems and Outlooks for the 1980's.
Dr. Donald J. Ortner: New Interpretations of Ape and Human Ancestry.
George Page: several books.
Dr. R. H. W. Pakenham: The Mammals of Zanzibar and Pemba Islands.
David O. Percy: National Colonial Farm Research Reports, nos. 1-25.
Mrs. Ithiel De Sola Poal: Communications Flows.
Crimalda Pontes: Helft, Jacques. Le Poincon des Provinces Francaises, 1968. Folio, lst ed., author's presentation copy.
Mary Raitt: 2 books.
Ivan Rubernik: The Vatican and Christian Rome.
Lester Rice: 4 books.
Edwin Robinson: 2 books.
Dr. Joe Rosewater: Lower Oligocene Gastropoda, Scaphopoda, and Cephalopoda of the Vicksburg Group in Mississippi.
Malcolm Rosholt: Flight in the China Air Space, 1910-1950.
Rodris Roth: Frederick K. and Margaret R. Barbour's Furniture Collection. A Supplement.
E. Merle Russell: 14 books.
Curt Sabrosky: XVII International Congress of Entomology. Abstract Volume.
Betty Schetzer: 21 books.
Dwight Schmidt: Tumors of Bone and Cartilage. Atlas of Tumor Pathology, NOs Dis
Catherine Scott: The Balloon: Bicentennial Exhibition.
Dr. Dorothy E. Shaw: Microorganisms in Papua New Guinea.
Mrs. Marian Lee Shepard: Life of Samuel F.B. Morse, vols. 1,2. 1875.
Mr. Kelly Snowers: The Floyd-Wells Company Catalogue, no. ll.
Dr. Walter Shropshire Jr.: 2 journals.
Dr. Lyman Smith: gift subscription to Boletim Sociedade Botanica do
Brasil and 2 other books.
Dr. Stephen Smith: Vascular Plants of Hugh Taylor Birch State Recreation ; Area. ;
Dr. Tom Soderstrom: La Guadua: un material verstil.
Morris Redman Spivack: several portfolios and reprints.
Dr. Victor Springer: Ryby Iaponskogo Moria i Spredelnykn Chastei Okhotskogo i Zheltogo Morei, vol. 4.
Norman Stack: John Doggett's 1851 reprint of the 1786 New York Directory.
Dr. Daniel J. Stanley: 230 books and journals.
Mrs. James Hawley Stephenson: 17 books and a related collection on hallmarks.

<<<Page: 377>>>

George Steyskal: 4 books.
Mitchel Strumpf: Ethnomusicology in African Studies. Dr. William Sturdevant: Zuni History (newspaper).
Dr. Paul Taylor: Malay Poisons and Charm Cures and 3 other books. Dr. Re Dale Thomas: A Preliminary Checklist of the Vascular Flora of
Washington and St. Tammary Parishes, Louisiana.
F. Christian Thompson: Kritische Revision der Insektenfaune Deutschlands nach dem System bearbeitet, 2 vols., and Directory of Canadian Field Research Stations.
Dr. F. Tiedemann: 2 books.
Mrs. J. Michael Tooman: 3 books.
E.A. Trabant: Books, Bricks and Bibliophiles.
Douglas Ubelaker: Prehistory of the Gathright Dam Area, Virginia. Dr. PE. Vanzolini: Sistematica e Ecologia dos Tropidurus do Grupo Torquatus ao Sul do Rio Amazones (Sauria, JIguanidae) and_ several
journals.
Alfred Verville: A Chronology of Micnigan Aviation. Robert Vogel: 42 books. T. Chad Walter: Razmnozhenie Iglokozhikh i Dvustvorchatkh Molliuskov.
Dr. Manfred Waserman: The Reptiles of Maryland and the District of Columbia.
Dr. George E. Watson: Akademie der Wissenschaften Wien. Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Klass. Denkschriften, 105 vols.
Ellen Wells: 15 books.
John H. White: 15 books.
Roger White: 8 books.
Sylvia Williams: Beauty By Design: The Aesthetics of African Adornment.
Nancy Wilson: several books and catalogues on art and architecture.
Frank Winter: Treatise on the Comparative Merits of a Rifle Gun and Rotary Rocket. 1863. microform.
Stanley Yankowski: 2 books.
Dr. George Zug: A Biogeographical Analysis of a Vicariant Event: The Herpetofauna of the Gibraltar Strait.

<<<Page: 378>>>

Donors to the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Carnegie Corporation of New York
Joan Connolly
The Dog Museum of America
Fuji Photo Film USA Inc.
Hartford Jewish Foundation
Great Northern Brokerage
The J. Paul Getty Trust
Mr. Livingston Kosberg
Lasers and Electro-Optics Society of the Institute of Electrical and RleceronG Engineers
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Low
New Orleans Museum of Art
The Optical Society of America
Sporting News Publishing
Mrs. H. C. Stevens
Time Inc,
United Jewish Charities of Detroit
The Ashok Group of Hotels (India Tourism Development Corporation)
Association of Trial Lawyers of America
Coromandel Fertilizers Ltd.
The Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation Ltd. of India
Louisiana Department of Culture, Recreation, and Tourism through the Louisiana Office of Tourism
Louisiana Heritage Foundation
Music Performance Trust Funds
Donors of Financial Support
American Institute of Indian Studies Philip Johnson
Communications Workers of America M. W. Kellogg Company
Ford Foundation Northern Telecom International Limited Government of India Pfizer International Inc.
Barrick W. Groom Tea Board of India

<<<Page: 379>>>

Donors of Financial Support
Office of Education, National Museum of Natural History, and National Capital Puppetry Guild: partial funding of “The Adventures of Monkey King,” Discovery Theater production. :
Office of the Mayor, District of Columbia Commission on the Arts and Humanities: partial funding of "A Tribute to Count Basie," performing arts event. Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service: partial funding of Art and Writing Contests, Discovery Theater. Office of the Mayor, District of Columbia Commission on the Arts and Humanities: partial funding of "Smithsonian Salutes Washington Dance,” performing arts event.
Hechinger Foundation: partial funding for “An Evening with Art Carpenter, Master Furniture Designer.”
Smithsonian Wonen's Committee; Stephenson, Inc.; and the Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service: partial funding of "Discover Graphics” program for area high school students and teachers.
The National Capital Optimist Club Inc.: partial funding for "Kite Festival,” family event.
Federal Nesign Council: partial funding for "Giants of Graphic Design,” course.
National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States: partial funding for "What Style Is It?,™” course.
Washington Chapter, The American Institute of Architects, Inc.: partial funding for “The Architectural Avant-Garde,” course.
AIA Forum for Architecture and Washington Chapter, The American Institute of Architects: partial funding for "The Challenge of Architectural Design,” course.
Asia Foundation: partial funding for “The Ascendancy of Asia: The Pacific Community in the 2lst Century,” course.
Hannah Penn Middle School: partial funding for “The Art of Tradittonal Stocytelling,” course.
Gannett Foundation; National Geographic Society; Coopers and Lybrand; Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.; The Union Labor Life Insurance Co.; Chevy Chase Savings & Loan, Inc.; Ace Beverage; Stephenson, Inc.; Woodward & Lothrop; and Washingtonian Magazine: partial funding for 20th Anniversary events.
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation: partial funding for "Downtown DC: Eastward Ho:", symposium.

<<<Page: 380>>>

1985 Corporate Fund Leadership
CHAIRMAN John F. Welch, Jr. General Electric Company VICE CHAIRMEN Samuel H. Armacost Bank Americ Corporation Stephen D. Bechtel, Jr. Bechtel Group, Inc. Robert A. Beck The Prudential Insurance Company of Bennett E. Bidwell Chrysler Corporation Theodore F. Brophy GTE Corporation Charles L. Brown AT&T James E. Burke Johnson & Johnson Donald F. Craib, Jr. Allstate Insurance Group John J. Creedon Metropolitan Life Insurance Company James H. Evans Union Pacific Corporation James L. Ferguson General Foods Corporation John H. Gutfreund Phibro-Salomon Robert A. Hanson Deere & Company Henry H. Henley, Jr. Cluett, Peabody & Co, Edward L. Hennessy, Jr. Allied Corporation Edwin K. Hoffman Woodward & Lothrop, John ,JJ. Horan Merck & Co., William R. Howell J.C. Penney Company, Edward G. Jefferson
ine.
ine.
E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Inc. F. Ross Johnson Nabisco Brands, Inc. David T. Kearns Xerox Corporation James L. Ketelsen Tenneco, Inc. William F. Kieschnick
Atlantic Richfield Co.
America
Charles F. Knight Emerson Electric Howard M. Love Intergroup, Inc. Ruben F. Mettler TRW Inc. Jonn R. Opel IBM Corporation Edmund T. Pratt Pfizer Inc. James D. Robinson III American Express Company Andrew C..Sigler Champion International. Corporation Roger B. Smith General Motors Corporation Rawleigh Warner, Jr. Mobil Corporation Thomas H. Wyman CBS: Ine. SECRETARY Harold Burson Burson-Marsteller

<<<Page: 381>>>

Corporate Leadership Circle
AT&T Foundation
Ameritech Foundation
Atlantic Richfield Foundation
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. Inc. Exxon Corporation
GTE Foundation
General Electric Foundation
The General Foods Fund, Inc.
General Motors Foundation, Inc. International Business Machines Corporation Merrill Lynch & Co. Foundation, Inc. Mobil Foundation, Inc.
NEC America, Inc.
R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc. Standard Oil Company (Indiana)
The Westin Hotel
Corporate Patrons
Allied Corporation Foundation CBS* ine.
Champion International Foundation Clark-Winchcole Foundation
The G. Unger Vetleson Foundation Merck & Co., Inc.
Nabisco Brands, Inc.
The Procter & Gamble Fund
Shell Companies Foundation Inc. Tenneco Inc.
Time Incorporated Foundation Union Pacific Foundation
The Xerox Foundation
Corporate Sponsors
Alexander Grant & Company
The Allstate Foundation American Can Company Foundation American Express Foundation American Security Bank, N.A. Ashland Oil, Inc.
The Bristol-Myers Fund, Inc. Burson-Marsteller
The Chevron Fund
Chrysler Corporation
Creicorp
The Coastal Corporation
The Coca-Cola Company
The Community Foundation of Greater Washington Deloitte Haskins & Sells Electronic Data Systems
Emerson Electric Co.

<<<Page: 382>>>

Ernst & Whinney
E-Systems, Inc.
Ford Motor Company Fund ;
The George Hyman Construction Company
Gulf Foundation
Halliburton Company
Herrick Foundation
Hess Foundation, Inc.
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contribution Fund
McKesson Foundation
Metropolitan Life Foundation
NL Industries Foundation, Inc.
National Broadcasting Company, Inc.
Northrop Corporation
Pacific Telesis Foundation
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
Philip Morris Incorporated
Potomac Electric Power Company
The Prudential Foundation
Raytheon Company
Sea-Land Corporation
Sears, Roebuck and Co.
Sheller-Globe Corporation
Sonat Foundation
Southwestern Bell Corporation
Sperry Corporation Foundation
Sundstrand Corporation Foundation
TRW Foundation
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation
The Times Mirror Foundation
United States Steel Foundation, Inc.
United Technologies
The Washington Post Company
Whirlpool Foundation
Corporate Donors
A. Alfred Taubman Foundation
A.G. Becker Paribas
Alcoa Foundation
Allen & Company
American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. Archer-Daniels-Midland Foundation Arthur Andersen & Co.
Associated Dry Goods Corporation BDM International, Inc. BankAmerica Foundation
Bankers Trust Company
Bechtel Foundation
BellSouth
Bender Foundation
Beneficial Corporation

<<<Page: 383>>>

wo CO Oo
Bethlehem Steel Corporation
Bigheart Pipe Line Corporation
The Boeing Company
Borg-Warner Foundation, Inc. Brown-Forman Corporation
C&P Telephone
Capital Cities Foundation Caterpillar Foundation
Charles E. Smith Companies
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. Chemical Bank
Chesebrough-Pond's Inc.
CIBA-GEIGY Corporation
The Continental Group Foundation, Inc. Corning Glass Works Foundation
Crown Zellerbach Foundation
Dart & Kraft Foundation
Dow Corning Corporation
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation Eastman Kodak Charitable Trust
Edward F. Hutton Foundation
Esmark, Inc. Foundation
Fairchild Industries Foundation, Inc. Federal-Mogul Corporation Charitable Trust Fund Federal National Mortgage Foundation Federated Department Stores Foundation First Virginia Banks
Fox-Stanley Photo Products, Inc. Gannett Foundation
General Dynamics Corporation
General Mills Foundation
Getty Oil Company
The Gillette Company
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company Gould Foundation
Grace Foundation Inc.
Grumman Corporation
The HCA Foundation
Hallmark Cards Incorporated
Harris Foundation
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.
Honeywell Foundation
Jim Walter Companies Foundation
John Hancock Mutual Life
Johnson & Higgins
The Johnson's Wax Fund, Inc.
K Mart Corporation
Kimberly-Clark Foundation, Inc.
King Ranch
The Kiplinger Foundation, Inc.
Lomas & Nettleton Financial Corporation Los Angeles Dodgers, Inc.

<<<Page: 384>>>

Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company Marriott Corporation
Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation Mary Horner Stuart Foundation
The May Stores Foundation, Inc.
The McGraw-Hill Foundation, Inc. Meredith Corporation .
Mesa Petroleum Co.
Monsanto Fund ;
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York Charitable N.W. Ayer Incorporated
National Geographic Society
National Intergroup, Inc.
Nissan Motor Corporation in U.S.A. Norfolk Southern Foundation
J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
The Pfizer Foundation, Inc. Phibro-Salomon, Inc.
Phillips Petroleum Foundation
Pneumo Foundation
Price Waterhouse ;
The Reader's Digest Association, Inc. Reynolds Aluminum
Rockwell International
Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corporation Schlumberger Foundation, Inc. Security Pacific Foundation
The Signal Companies
The Singer Company
SmithKline Beckman Corporation
Sooner Pipe & Supply Corporation
St. Regis Corporation
The Standard Oil Company (Ohio) Subaru of America Foundation
Sun Company, Inc.
Bextron, Inc.
Touche Ross & Co.
Union Carbide Corporation
Union Oil Company of California Foundation United Airlines Foundation
Warner Communications
Warner-Lambert Company
Wells Fargo Foundation
West Point-Pepperell Foundation Woodward & Lothrop
Young & Rubicam Inc.
Corporate Contributors
AMF Foundation
The Abacus Group
Acacia Mutual Life
Air Products Foundation The Ailen Group
Thus t

<<<Page: 385>>>

(oa)
Allied Stores Corporation Amerace Corporation American Airlines, Inc.
American Association of Retired Persons
American Cyanamid Company American Home Products Corporation American Stock Exchange
Agthue Ds Little, Inc.
The Atlantic Companies
Automatic Data Processing
AVCO Corporation
Bank of Oklahoma
Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Baxter Travenol Laboratories, Inc. Bell Canada Enterprises Inc.
The Budd Company
CIGNA Foundation
CPC International Inc.
Campbell's Soups Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc. Caterpillar Foundation
Celanese Corporation
Cluett, Peabody & Co.
Consolidated Natural Gas Company Foundation
Continental Telecom, Inc. Cooper Industries Foundation Cooper Laboratories, Inc. Corning Glass Works Foundation Cross & Trecker Foundation Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, Inc. D'Arcy MacManus Masius
Detroit Bank & Trust Company Dilton, Read & Co. Inc.
The Donohoe Companies, Inc. Dow Jones & Co., Inc.
Doyle Dane Bernbach Inc. Drexel Burnham Lambert Dynalectron Corporation
Eaton Corporation
Eli Lilly and Company
Ethyl Corporation
Fayez Sarofim & Co.
Federal Express Corporation Firestone Trust Fund
The First Boston Foundation Trust L.B. Foster Company
GEICO Philanthropic Foundation Garfinckel's
Gen Corp Foundation, Inc. General Signal
Giant Food Foundation, Inc. Gilbane Building Company
B.F. Goodrich Company
Guy T. Steuart Foundation
Ine’.

<<<Page: 386>>>

Handy & Harman
The Hanger Foundation
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich
Hecht's
H.J. Heinz II Charitable and Family Trust Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc.
Hitachi America Ltd.
Hoover Universal
Ingersoll-Rand
International Paper Company Foundation The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. Moe -SiMrsdohn' N. Irwin It
ITT Corporation
J. Walter Thompson Company Fund Inc. Jewish Communal Fund
John Deere Foundation
Kellogg Company
Kenyon & Eckhardt, Inc.
The Kidder Peabody Foundation
The Kissinger Family Foundation
KMG Main Hurdman
Lazard Freres & Co.
Leo Burnett Company, Inc. Libbey-Owens-Ford Company
Liberty Foundation
Litton Industries
Lutz and Carr
R. H. Macy & Co., Inc.
MAPCO Inc.
Mars Foundation
Material Service Foundation
Maugus Manufacturing, Inc.
Melville Corporation
Mickelberry Corporation
Milwaukee Foundation
Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc.
NS&T Bank
National Bank of Detroit
National Corporation for Housing Partnerships National Life Insurance Company Needham Harper Worldwide, Inc. Neiman-Marcus
Noland Company Foundation
Oakleigh L. Thorne Foundation Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide
The Oliver T. Carr Company Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation Owens-Illinois Fund
PACCAR Foundation
PPG Industries Foundation
Peoples Drug Stores Incorporated Pitney Bowes
Pittsburgh Corning Corporation

<<<Page: 387>>>

Pittsburgh National Bank
Primark Corporation
Pritzker Foundation
RA Controls, inc.
Raleigh Stores Foundation
The Raymond John Wean Foundation Reading & Bates Corporation Restaurant Associates Industries, Inc. The Riggs National Bank of Washington, Ross Roy, Inc.
Safeway Stores, Inc.
Sandoz, Inc.
B.F. Saul Co.
The Scott Fetzer Foundation Scurlock Foundation
G.D. Searle & Co.
Silverstein Family Foundation Sovran Bank, N.A.
Square D Foundation
Squibb Corporation
The Stouffer Corporation Fund Suburban Bank
A. Sulka & Company
Survival Technology, Inc.
SYMS ‘Clothing, Ine.
Taft Broadcasting Company heichnzcolor, Inc.
Temporaries, Inc.
Third National Bank
Thomas J. Lipton Foundation, Inc. USAir
U.S. News & World Report
Wechsler Coffee Corporation Wesray Corporation
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation The Williams Companies Foundation
DaGes

<<<Page: 388>>>

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART Donors
Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Company
The Ahmanson Foundation
Alcoa Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Edward K. Aldworth
Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
American Security Bank
Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr. in honor of Richard Bales
Christianne Anderson
Walter H. and Leonore Annenberg
Anonymous
Willy Arnheim
Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Arnold, Jr.
The Art Lovers League, Baltimore
The Artery Organization, Inc.
The Atlas Foundation
Richard Bales
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Ballard
Bankamerica Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Bass
Mr. and Mrs. Sid R. Bass
Mrs. Max Beckmann
Bell Atlantic Corporation
Ruth Benedict
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman
Bernard and Audrey Berman
Diane and Norman Bernstein
Robert Hunt Berry
The Siegfried and Josephine Bieber Foundation
Boeing Commercial Airplane Company
Boise Cascade Corporation
Brady Foundation
The Brown Foundation in memory of Mrs. George R. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
B. G. Cantor Art Foundation
Family of Oliver T. Carr
Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.
Amon G. Carter Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Carter
Carroll J. Cavanagh
CBS News
Center for Palladian Studies in America
Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund
Mr. and Mrs. George V. Charlton
Mames C. Christenson
William B. Christensen
John Clemmer i
The Coca-Cola Foundation
Melvin S. and Ryna G. Cohen
Communications Satellite Corporation
The Conde Nast Publications Inc.
Catherine M. Conover
Dr. and Mrs. Ronald H. Cordover
Corning Glass Works Foundation
The Marshall B. Coyne Foundation
The Charles E. Culpeper Foundation
Madeleine R. Cury
Chester Dale Fund
Chester Dale Trust
The Charles A. Dana Foundation, Inc.
John B. Davidson
Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. De Costa
The Detroit Institute of Arts Founders Society
William C. Dickinson
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Donnell
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
Dynalectron Corporation
Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr.
Julia B. Engel
The Charles Engelhard Foundation
Lionel C. Epstein
Sarah G. Epstein
Thomas M. and Betty B. Evans
Exxon Corporation
Frank and Jeannette Eyerly
The William Stamps Farish Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Farquhar
Dorothy Faul
Carma Fauntleroy
Paul B. Fay, Jr.
Peter H. Feist
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fendrick
David Edward Finley and Margaret Eustis Finley Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher
Annelise and William H. G. FitzGerald
Mrs. Julius Fleischmann
Ford Motor Company
sy) (oe) An

<<<Page: 389>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Ben J. Fortson
Arnold D. Frese Foundation, Inc.
The Fuller Foundation, Inc.
Andrew P. and Geraldine Spreckels Fuller
Rosemary Furtak
GTE Corporation
JoAnn and Julian Ganz, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Evelyn H. Gilbert
Robert Ginsberg
Ralph Ginzberg
James M. Goode
Herb Gordon Oldsmobile, Inc.
Gould & Antonelli
Paul C. Graffagnino
Katharine Graham
Philip L. Graham Fund
Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts
Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Gray
James K. Gray
Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mr. and Mrs. George Gund, III
John and Susan Gutfreund
Leo S. Guthman
Mr. and Mrs. Prentis Cobb Hale
Mr. and Mrs. Melville W. Hall
The Hall Family Foundations
Hallmark Cards Incorporated
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Hampton
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes
Mrs. Clarence B. Hanson
Averell and Pamela Harriman
Charles U. and Janet C. Harris
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen
The Hechinger Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Heinz II
Professor Julius S. Held
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Helman
Susan Morse Hilles
Hinduja Foundation
Gerald D. Hines Interests
Hirschl & Adler
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Hixon
Oveta Culp Hobby
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Gibson Hodge
Mrs. W. Franklin Hollinger
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
Mrs. Bruce Duff Hooton
Anne Horan
Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Hudson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Carlisle H. Humelsine
Mr. and Mrs. Christopher W. Hurd
Hyatt Foundation
The George Hyman Construction Company
IBM Corporation
Monika Ingenhoff-Danhauser
Mr. and Mrs. John N. Irwin, II
ITT Corporation
Marcia Jestadt
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.
Johnson Wax
James A. Johnson, Jr.
Mrs. J. Seward Johnson
Felix and Helen Juda Foundation
The Junior League of Washington, D.C.
The Ruth and Jacob Kainen Collection
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation Fund
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Kaufman
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kellen
George H. Kelley
Mary Kelly Memorial Fund
William M. Kelso
Mrs. Morley Kennerley
Mr. and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder
Richard A. and Lee Kirstein
H. Klotz
Seymour H. Knox
Robert P. and Arlene R. Kogod
V. A. Kolve
In memory of Frank J. and Anna A. Kramer
Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Ralph Landau
Elizabeth A. Lane
Mr. and Mrs. Julian Lapides
The Lauder Foundation
Evelyn and Leonard Lauder
Ronald S. and Jo Carole Lauder
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore N. Law
Sarah Barney Lefferts
Susanne Levy
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Little Farms Garden Club of Potomac
Lockheed Corporation
Clare Booth Luce
Asbjorn R. Lunde
G. Lusignoli
Edward E. MacCrone Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Maguire, III
Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Mansell
Mr. and Mrs. Melvin A. Mapes, III
Mars Foundation
John A. Masters
Mrs. Robert B. Mayer
Mr. and Mrs. John A. McCone

<<<Page: 390>>>

Mrs. Eugene McDermott
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon
R. K. Mellon Family Foundation
Richard King Mellon Foundation
Dr. Georges and Dr. Lois de Menil
Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation
The Dunlevy Milbank Foundation, Inc. in memory of Ella Milbank Foshay
Edwin Van R. and Cassandra Mellon Milbury
Liselotte Millard
Mark J. Millard
Gerald J. and Judith Miller
Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund
Edith Monroe Moe
Mobil Oil Corporation
Mobil Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Moncrief
Robert Moody Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. O. Ray Moore
Dr. and Mrs. Franklin D. Murphy
Natalia Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. John U. Nef
Nancy Brown Negley
Josephine Nelson
Hugo V. Neuhaus, Jr.
Neutrogena Corporation
Carl Nordenfalk
Mrs. P. Roussel Norman
John O'Brien
Occidental Petroleum Corporation
Elliot Offner
William B. O'Neal
Pacific Bell
William S. Paley
Charles Parkhurst
Pier Giorgio Pasini
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Perpetual American Federal Savings & Loan Association
The Phillips Family Fund
Nancy Pierce
Mr. and Mrs. Sumner Pingree, III
The Pittway Corporation Charitable Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky
Potomac Electric Power Company
Eugenie Prendergast
The Frederick Henry Prince Testamentary Trust
Mr. and Mrs. A. N. Pritzker
General Dillman A. Rash
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart A. Resnick
Ridgewell's Caterer, Inc.
Riggs National Bank
Lucie M. Robbins
David Rockefeller
Dorothy Rodgers in memory of Richard Rodgers
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rogers
Matthew L. Rohn
Roland International Corporation
Ingrid Rose
Arthur G. Rosen
‘Martin N. Rosen
Rosenwald Collection
Nancy and Miles Rubin
Madeleine H. Russell
Dr. and Mrs. Harrison Sadler
Saint Anthony School
Mr. and Mrs. Fayez Sarofim
B. Francis Saul, II
Sarah Scaife Foundation
Rosi Schilling
Mr. and Mrs. Roger L. Schlaifer
Mr. and Mrs. Benno C. Schmidt
The Florence and John Schumann Foundation
Mrs. John C. Shepherd
Yoshiaki Shimizu
Mrs. John Farr Simmons
William K. Simpson
Carolyn Skelly
Regina Slatkin
Mr. and Mrs. Rodney T. Small
Joshua P. Smith
Margaret R. Smith
Robert H. and Clarice Smith
Wiley J. S. SMith
Mr. and Mrs. Rudolf Sobernheim
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur K. Soloman
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Sowell
Alice Steiner in memory of John H. Steiner
H. Peter Stern
Ruth Carter Stevenson
Suburban Bancorp
Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation
The Tides Foundation
The Times Mirror Foundation
Time Incorporated
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice B. Tobin
David Tunick
Capt. and Mrs. Paul N. Turner
Ernst Ullmann

<<<Page: 391>>>

United Technologies Corporation
US VAD, “Ine.
Jane Van Nimmen
Varian Associates
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Vaughn, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Vershbow
Chintamani Vyas
Major General and Mrs. Jack J. Wagstaff
Anne M. Walker
Brooks Walker, Jr.
John Walker
DeWitt Wallace Fund
Lila Acheson Wallace Fund
Mr. and Mrs. F. Howard Walsh, Jr.
Mrs. Paul L. Wattis
Jan Wepsiec
The John C. Whitehead Fund
Mrs. John Hay Whitney
Mrs. Harold G. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson
Emile Wolf
William and Eleanor Wood Prince
Ian Woodner
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward
George W. Wyckoff
Wyeth Laboratories
Mrs. Lowe Yost
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Young
Mrs. Eugene Youngs
Dorothy Zimmermann in memory of Frederick Zimmermann
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART Patrons’ Permanent Fund Campaign Direct Mail Donors
Alice S. Acheson
E. James Adams
Richard H. Adams, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy J. Adams In Memory of Arlyn Adolf William A. Albaugh
Steven R. Albersheim
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Alexander Jessie Allen
Dr. and Mrs. David W. Alling Susan Mary Alsop
In Memory of Alfred and Clara Altheide
Dr. and Mrs. Aaron M. Altschul Goetna G. Ames
Mr. William H. Amman
Howard K. and W. Arlene Ammerman Virginia and Arthur L. Anagnost Marion E. Anderson
Esther and Laurence Andrews Patricia Mae Andrews
Lawrence Unlimited Lawrence Anenberg
Mrs. Robert G. Angle
Anonymous (32 donors)
Mr. and Mrs. Mahlon Apgar, IV
The Honorable Anne A. Armstrong
Mrs. Ivy Arnold
Jean Wilkes Arnold
Simon Arzigian
Aaron Ashley Inc.
Maude Atherton
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Gordon H. Austin
T. R. Averett
Mary C. Axmann in Honor of My Mother Mary A. Axman
Susan Babaie
Dr. and Mrs. Gerald J. Babbitt
Judge and Mrs. Carl W. Bacharach
Rodney J. and Phyllis S. Badger
Ethel K. Baier
Dr. and Mrs. A. P. Bailey
Carol Ann Bakinowski
James E. Ballowe, Jr.
Helen Banniettis
Gwen Baptist
Gina E. Barile
Mr. Jean Lawrence Barker
Marian T. Barnes
Richard L. and Nancy H. Barnoski
In Memory of Gene Baro
In Honor of Bernard Barryte
David B. Bartlett
In Memory of Brother Raymond E. Barzilai
John Baskett

<<<Page: 392>>>

Eleanor J. Bateman
Carol L. Bates
John D. Batson
Nancy McCoy Bauer
Ruth Margaret Beakley
Mr. and Mrs. Walter H. Beal, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Beckler
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Beddall
In Memory of F. Lammot Belin
Mrs. Irvin Bemstein
In Memory of Stanley Benik, Sr.
Evelyn M. Bennett
William F. Bennett
Helene and Ralph Benson
Liz Bent
Stanton K. and Rosa R. Berdrow
George and Ruth Bergquist
Erma V. Berkley
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene A. Berlin
Mrs. Julius Berman
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Beyt
Anne W. Biberman
Ms. Ann Margaret Bigley
Imogene Bingaman
Captain and Mrs. H. Harold Bishop
Ms. Avis E. Black
Mr. and Mrs. Ray A. Blackburn
Ethel Blaine
The Honorable Mr. William McCormick Bilarrs eT.
Bernadette M. Blais
Miss Frances Blank
"Art Gives Life" Sherry Blasberg
Millie and Harold Bless
Richard Block, Jr., in Memory of My Parents and Sister
Gloria M. Blottenberger
Beverly Boas
Sarah S. Boasberg
Angel Boccia
E. E. Bode.
Peter Boesch
Georgia T. Boines
Mr. and Mrs. James C. H. Bonbright
Mr. and Mrs. Jean Bony
Earl and Jean Bellows Booth
Helen B. Bornefeld
In Memory of Anne Katherine Boswell
Evgenia Botkin
Jenny A. Bounous
Margaret I. Bouton
Ruth Berenson in Honor of Margaret Bouton
Mrs. Barbara G. Bowen
Paul Bowron
Mr. and Mrs. J. Harry Boyles
Anne Marie Bradford
Lois Bradshaw and Carey Gordon
Ethel W. and Seymour Brandwein
Mr. and Mrs. Carl E. Bredlau
James A. Bridenstine
Kay L. Rees in Memory of V. G. Brigante
Susan B. Bristol
Mrs. Sidney F. Brody
Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Brooks
Margaret Parham Brooks
Lt. Col. and Mrs. Neil R. Brooks
In Memory of Myer D. Bross
Dr. and Mrs. John B. Brough
J. Carter Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Cunningham, Jr. in Honor of J. Carter Brown
Jayne Stone Brown
Katherine L. Brown
Capt. Lawrence W. Brown U.S.A.F.
Olga Jamison Brown
Pam A. Brown
Robert Brown
Mrs. Robert S. Brown
Sarah E. Brown
Mrs. Stewart Brown
W. W. Brown
Eugene C. and Helen L. Brownson
Emma K. Brunner
The Honorable and Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr.
Marie O. Buckels
Eugene J. and Simone M. Buehler
Christine E. Burke
Ella Poe Burling
Mrs. John Burroughs
Nancy and Frederick S. Buschmeyer, Jr.
Donald R. and Lynn G. Bush
Howard and Diana Butner
Marilyn D. Butts
James Allen Byrne
Buffy Cafritz
William N. Cafritz
Dr. and Mrs. James F. Callahan, Potomac, Maryland
Larry Calyn
Dr. and Mrs. Don B. Cameron
Gerard L. and Suzanne Campagna
Adele A. Campbell
Mrs. John M. Campbell
Louise Lyon in Memory of H. D. G. Carroll

<<<Page: 393>>>

Muriel D. S. Carroll
In Memory of Irene V. Carson from Mr. and Mrs. F. B. Jasperson
Mary Carson
Nancy Jane Carson
Commander and Mrs. Beverly E. Carter
Cecil P. Carusi
Dorothy F. Cascioni
Howard M. Casper
In Memory of Bridget and Patrick Cassidy
Gary P. Castor
For All Artists' Cats!
The Honorable and Mrs. Henry E. Catto
Valerie M. Cavanagh
Angela S. Caveness
Christine B. Cestello
Carl W. Chamberlin
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Chance
Clara H. Chase
Leslie Cheek, Jr.
Laura C. Chertock and Stephen H. Chertock
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Cheston
Andrew Chiarodo
Antony Childs, Inc.
Mary Cole Childs
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Chilk
Eloise W. Choate
Belle Church
Patricia and Philip Churchley
Mrs. Adriana J. Chutter
Ann Ciszek
In Memory of Miss Adele Clark, Richmond, Virginia Artist
Kathleen S. Clark
Leslie Lee Clark
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen C. Clark, Jr.
Alice W. Clement
Linda E. Cleveland
Judith Clifford
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Clopper
Katherine J. Cobates
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Coffelt
Daniel S. Cohen
Herman Cohen
Hyman J. Cohen
Nina Jo Cohen
In Honor of Rena T. Cohen
Don and Renee Domogauer in Memory of Sol Cohen
Mrs. Cecile A. Colquhoun
Mrs. H. Dumscombe Colt
Edith Elliott Conger
Sandra Lynn Connors
Catherine M. Conover
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Conrad
Louis and Barbara Conte
Robert and Lelah Conway
Donald Cook, Oakland, Md.
In Memory of Edith McKean Cook
Alistair Cooke
T. J. Coolidge
Steve Cordle
Dorothy M. Cormier
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Costrell
Adelaide Courtney
Elizabeth R. Covert
J. Harry Covington III
Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles
Edward Hyde Cox
Mrs. Raymond C. Cox
Mrs. Sydnor M. Cozart
Rear Adm. and Mrs. Robert R. Craighill
Cecil G. Crider
Janet McClayton Crites
J. Byron and Leila P. Crossman
Christian Ayne Crouch
Marion C. Crough
Susan Holmberg Currie
Helen and Edward Curry
Mary Elizabeth Curry
Mr. and Mrs. Allerton Cushman
Mrs. James W. Daly
George T. Dalziel, Jr.
David N. Danforth, Jr.
Mrs. N. R. Danielian
M. L. Dante
Jane O. Dart
Hermana W. Dasent
Eleanor Davidov
Hugh M. Davidson
Marie M. Davidson
Adrianne P. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. H. Z. Davis
Elsie Cole Davison
Sylvia De Cuevas
Lina De Rosa
Colonel and Mrs. J. E. Decher
Stanley and Lynn DeGroote
Mr. and Mrs. John Dehnel
Chagit and Roger M. Deitz
Art Spirit Delewski
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard T. DeLisio
Sally J. Dempster
Clara Demuling
Sandra Lea Derr

<<<Page: 394>>>

Dr. John E. DeTurck
Mr. and Mrs. Albert B. Dewey, Jr.
G. Di Lorenzo
In Memory of Mrs. Bess E. Dick
Bernard and Frieda Dillman
James A. Dillon
Lura May Dillow
Barbara W. Dix
Yvonne Dixon
Mary S. Dobbie
Dorothy Dockterman
Mary and Lamar Dodd
Mrs. Thomas C. Donnahue
Mr. and Mrs. Howard C. Doolittle
Janet P. Dorman
Dorleen Dove
Betty P. Dow
Maurine A. Drake
Muriel M. Dreswick
In Memory of Mildred E. Drew
Mary Ellen Drier
Dorothy B. Krug
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Dubit
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Dublin
John A. Dudeck, Jr.
Hon. and Mrs. Robert Werner Duemling
In Memory of Harry E. Duey, Sr.
James T. Duff
In Honor of Ann and Harry Dukeley
In Memory of Floyde J. Duncan
Roger A. Duncan
Georgiana P. Dunham
Lucia J. Dunham
Mrs. Donald T. Dunne
Raquel R. Dunning
Gregory P. Dunsky
Richard Durocher
In Memory of Edwin Dutcher
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Dym
Sterling and Ruth Eagleton
A. Louise Eckburg, Washington, D.C.
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Edmondson
Margaret Edsall
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Efron
Ursula M. Ehrhardt
Etan Edward Eiches
Rochelle and Barry Eisenberg and Family
Ruth C. Eisenhart
Mos anenry H. Eliiott, Jr.
In Memory of Lt. Frank T. Ellis, Jr.
Mrsz NetivLe VEllis, Jr.
In Memory of Joseph Nelson Else and Virginia Stewart Else
Wendy Emmer Grainger In Honor of Paul E. Emmer
Walter and Inge Engel
Stephen E. Engle
Zoe Kranson Engler
virene R. Eno
Cheryl Beazley Erdman
Glory D. Erdman
Linda Erskian
Professor L. D. and Helen S. Ettlinger
Frank and Jeannette Eyerly
In Memory of Leo E. Fabricius
Arthur Fagan
John S. and Lucy H. Farrington
Miss Alice M. Fearen
Alberta Fehler
In Memory of Ernest Reynold Feidler
Sylvan and Ruth Feigenson
Bernard Fein
Minnie K. Feinman
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart P. Feld on Behalf of Hirschl and Adler Galleries
In Memory of Horace J. Feldman
In Memory of Samson Feldman by His Sisters Rossetta A. and Sadie B. Feldman
Elizabeth M. Ferguson
Ruth Ferrer
Caren F. Ferris
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore A. Fetter
Donald M. Feuerstein and Jacqueline H. Dryfoos
In Memory of Edward R. Fickenscher, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Fiekowsky Miss Susan J. Finke
Mr. and Mrs. E. Jay Finkel
In Memory of Mr. and Mrs. David Finley In Memory of Dorothy F. Fischer George M. Fitzgerald
Judith Fitzpatrick
Mary G. Flannery
Dorette K. Fleischmann
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Fleming Donald B. Fletcher
Don and Marilyn K. Flickinger Harold W. Fogle
Mrs. Edward H. Foley
Mr. and Mrs. Lee Merritt Folger In Memory of Henry W. Forbes Eugene T. Ford
Samuel S. Ford
Carol M. Fox
Elizabeth J. Foy
Mrs. Jack R. Frank

<<<Page: 395>>>

Peg M. Frankosky
Mr. and Mrs. Clayton Fritchey
In Loving Memory of Grey Harman Froelich
Harold D. and Sarah J. Fuerst
Anna S. Fujimori
Gladys and Everett Fuller
George and Jacqueline Gabelia
Jean Gage
Joanne E. Gaines
In Memory of Jacke Gaither
Larry R. and Maureen V. Gamble
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard M. Gann
Mr. and Mrs. Francis W. Gapp
Ruth Avis Gardner
Leonard Garment
Gayle M. Garrett
James A. Garrison
William P. Garrity
Joseph L. Gastwirth
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Geber
Mr. and Mrs. William F. Gelabert
Genevieve Finn German
Mary H. Getsinger
Mr. and Mrs. William Gibb, III
John A. Gibbons
James C. Giblin
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. Giddens
Evelyn H. Gilbert
James P. Gillece, Jr./Jane C. Szczepaniak
In Memory of Mrs. Lawrence Gilman
Pauline and Jack Gilstrap
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen D. Gladis
Lorna Jury Gladstone
Mildred B. Glancy
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Gofstein
Ms. Valerie Golden
Dr. Milton Goldin
Mathilda S. Goldman
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Goldstone
Martha L. Golon
Peter and-Gail Goltra
I. Wayne Goodman
In Memory of Pauline Goodman
Carol E. Gordon
Wilma L. Gordon
Morton and Roberta Goren
Dr. Conrad L. Gossels
In Memory of Joseph Gottlieb
Dorothy and Shirley Gould
Mrs. Brunel Graham
John F. and Dorothy G. Graham
Marian Graham
Christabell C. Grant
Fredrika T. Graves
Boyden Gray
Nancy Gray
In Memory of Edwin Green
In Memory of Mooney, Rose, and Mosey Greenberg
Edith S. Greer
H. A. and Josephine E. Grennan
Joann and Paul Gretch
Daniel V. Griffin in Honor of His Parents Col. and Mrs. John J. Griffin
Mr. and Mrs. Chandler B. Griggs
Kimberly H. Groner
In Memory of Frances J. Gross
Sue R. Groth
Leonie Haenisch Grueninger
On Behalf of My Son, Manuel A. Guerrero
Bernardo J. and Jane P. Guiliano
Gail J. Gulliksen
Mrs. Frank L. Gunderson :
In Memory of Mrs. Albert T. Gunner
Lillian Guralnick
Jacqueline W. Gustaves
Mrs. Harold Miller Gutekunst
Charles F. Guthmann, Jr.
James C. Guyot
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Hager
Marilyn M. Hahn
To My Daughter Linda Hains
John M. Halick
Evelyn A. J. Hall Mr. and Mrs. Melville W. Hall
Jason Y. Hall
Robert C. and Joan S. Hall
Wade Hampton Hall
Sarah F, Halloran
Sylvia and Harold Halpert
Sharon L. Halpin and Frederick C. Schafrick
David A. Hamod
Isidore and Jeannette Hankin
Gerald V. Hannan
Mrs. Elisha Hanson
Joan Dee Hanson
Andrew and Dorothy Haramis
Mrs. B. Lauriston Hardin, Jz.
Chester A. Harding
Ruth S. and Harry H. Hardy
Margaret H. Harlin in Memory of Her Daughter, Paige P. Harlan Sembler
Mr. and Mrs. Paul §&. Harris

<<<Page: 396>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Harris
Mr. and Mrs. Harlan Harrison
In Memory of Harold Steele Harrison
Jane Turner Harrison
Virginia B. Hart
In Memory of Winifred S. Hartley
Linda Hartman
Ronald J. Hartranft
Helen and George Hartzog
Susan Leary Hassell
Dorothy Seegar Hatch
Vel Davis Hatch of Tulsa
Mrs. Wirt Hatcher
Phyllis Hattis
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond F. Hawtin
Jeffrey Hayden
Rebecca Mabelle Haynes
Anne M. Hazen ‘
In Memory of Samuel H. Hazleton III
Mrs. Patrick Healy III
Cecile Hecht
Hedgerow House Art Publishing Company
In Memory of My Mother, Geneva Hedges
John Robert Heffernan
Mrs. Ernest P. Heiby
Dolores M. Heikka
John Dorsey Heinberg and Beverly Brockus Heinberg
Mrs. Walter Heiner
Samuel Heller
The Honorable and Mrs. Richard Helms
Dorothy L. Henry
F, Douglas and Annie Laurie Hereford
C. Eliette Hermann
Mr. and Mrs. Dudley Herndon
Phyllis F. Herndon
John Hertzler, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hess and Son, Jeffrey
Matilda B. Heyser
Ellen Lea Hickey
In Memory of Paul Hughes Hildreth
In Memory of Mamie A. and Albert J. Hilker
Dorothy M. Hillegass
Clara and Roderick Hills
Josephine Hillyard
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines
Howard W. Hinkeldey
Karen Hinson
Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. Hirschler
John R. Hoagland
Erwin C. and Hortense E. Hock
Mary Hodapp
Dr. and Mrs. Merle J. Hodges
Henry C. Hofheimer II
Richard D. Hofmann, Jr.
Wallace F. and Wilhelmina Cole Holladay
Dr. and Mrs. Alexander Hollaender
Patricia and Claude Hollyfield
Miriam Holmes
Mrs. B. R. Holmgren
Dolores Holtsman
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob R. Holzschuh
Dr. and Mrs. Freddy Homburger
Al and Lois Honick
Joseph Hooban and Donna Ifill
Eugene M. Hood, Jr.
Henry R. and Sarahanne A. Hope
John Jay Hopkins Foundation, Mr. and Mrs. Clement E. Conger
Marta Madrid de Horgan
Outerbridge Horsey
In Memory of Aida E. Horton
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey H. Houser
The Howe Family
Mrs. J. Raymond Hoy, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Darryl F. Hubbard
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Hughes, Jr.
Suzanne and Evan Hughes
Elbridge 0. Hurlbut
Emma Randolph Hurst
Mr. and Mrs. Danny Husta
Mrs. J. Dwight Hutchinson
In Loving Memory of Margaret E. Hutchinson Chiyo and Horton Telford
Mrs. Enid G. Hyde
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Hynson
Sue Inafuku
Mr. John Peters Irelan
Miss Roberta Irwin
Anne M. Jacks
Margaret M. Jackson
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Jacobson
Mrs. Sidney B. Jacques
Dr. Donald R. Jaffe
Lorna Jaffe
Sally C. Jaffee
In Honor of Mr. and Mrs. Casimer Jagielo
H. M. P. Jagodzinske
Mrs. MacGill James
In Memory of Samuel Wilson Jamison
Linda J. Jaszcz
Mary F. Jensen
Mr. and Mrs. Jacques Z. Baruch in Memory of Dr. Harold Joachim

<<<Page: 397>>>

James A. Johnson, Jr.
Kenneth T. and Virginia V. Johnson
The Ralph R. Johnson Family
Alice Grier Johnston
Meredith Johnston
Henrietta Jones
Martha Yvonne Jones
Robert Emmet Jordan
Peter W. Josten
Dr.. Mary W. Juday
In Memory of Leon A. Kahn
Roslyn Kaiser
Kenneth E. Kaplan
The Honorable David Brewer Karrick, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick M. Karsten
Kavita Katti
Dr. Solomon Katz
Peter K. Kautsky
Mrs. George C. Keiser
Kathleen Raye Keller
John Kendall
Eugene J. and Dale Burchard Kenney
In Memory of Louise D. Kent
Earl and Doris Kettler
In Honor of Khelevah Khatonah
Dr. Casey Kiernan
Jim and Diane Kilbourne
George V. Kinal
Ethel V. A. King in Memory of Anna M. King
Marian King
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Kinsolving
Kenneth and Carol Doran Klein
The Hon. and Mrs. Herbert W. Klotz
Adelaide S. Knapp
Knoll Art Appreciation Club, Lakehurst, NeJis
Virginia S. Knull
Akira Komoriya
In Memory of Elli Konig
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley L. Konski
Basil P. and Marlyn W. Korin
Audrey Koy
Antoinette F. Krajcar
Ronald P. and Elaine S. Kramer
In Memory of Lucile B. Kraseman
Otto R. Krause
In Honor of Charlotte Kriete
In Honor of Opal Kristich
In Memory of Henry C. Krom
Helen M. Krupovich
John T. Krynicky
In Memory of Barbara Tussey Kuban
Celia J. Kuhlmann
Mr. and Mrs. William Kummings
Rev. and Mrs. John Kyllo
Mr. Cameron LaClair
David John LaJuett
Professor Roy.Lambert
Richard Lambriola
Edward E. Lamm
David R. Lampe
Arnell and Everett Land
Landmark Services-Tourmobile, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Lane, Jr.
In Memory of My Husband James K. Lane
Laura Brown Lane
Mrs. Walsie A. Langley
Mrs. Ann G. Largent
Vivienne M. Lassman
In Memory of My Father, Irwin B. Laughlin
Florence D. Lavine
John S. Lawrence
In Loving Memory of William Lawson
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Lazarus, Jr.
Col. U.S.A. (Ret.) and Mrs. James H. Leach
Margaret W. League
Josefa G. Lee
Virginia A. Lee
Bob and Donna Leftwich
Edgar P. Leggett
Lucinda K. Leigh
Doris A. Leizear
John and Lydia Lenaghan
Edward C. Leonard, Jr.
In Memory of Elsie Persky Lesser
Daniel W. Leubecker
Given by Bertha B. Leubsdorf in Memory of Karl Leubsdorf
Blanche Levenberg
In Memory of Samuel L. Levin
Maurice H. and Madeline LeVita
In Loving Memory of Abrham and Rose Levitt
In Honor of Birthday Arnold Levy
Dorothy Dort Levy
Alverta V. D. Lewis
Muriel E. Lewis
In Memory of Our Parents Lena and Lou Liebl
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Liftin
William R. Liggett
Donald V. Lincoln
In Memory of Sarah Okun Lipnick
Michael and Marilyn Litt
Mary Elizabeth Little

<<<Page: 398>>>

In Memory of Charles Cornelius Lockett
Mrs. Richard C. Loebs
Mr. and Mrs. Earl H. Look
Harriet Willard Looney and Howard C. Looney
Mr. and Mrs. Donald S. Lopez
Ms. Angela M. LoRe
Mr. and Mrs. Nash M. Love
Beverly Levenson in Memory of Dr. E. M. LuBow
In Memory of Wallace Luchs, Jr.
In Memory of My Father Sam Lugerner
Lloyd and Barbara Luther
Joseph M. Lyle
John and Rosemary Lyon
Bruce Walter MacDonald
Elisabeth Blair MacDougall
Dorothy M. Macauley
In Memory of Louise Mattila Madison
Hazel L. Madsen
Jenny W. Magee
Michael and Susan Mahoney
Hon. Robert P. Mangieri
Phillip L. Mann
Nancy K. Mannes
E. A. G. Manton
In Honor of Joseph Valmore Marcoux
Mrs. Olya Margolin
In Memory of Our Little "Cellini": Margot and James Marino, Jr.
Lois B. Markus
Maj. Gen. Raymond B. Marlin
Matthew Marmor
William F. Marquardt III
Wm. McChesney Martin
Rear Admiral and Mrs. Masterson, Jr.
Antonietta G. Mastrangelo
Ann Matchinsky
Nicolas and Martha Mathieu
Miss Armen Matossian
Alice M. Mayer
Virginia Mitts Mayo
Mary Kessler McAteer
John A. McCart
Robert J. McCarthy
Muriel McClanahan
Donald M. McClelland
In Memory of My Mother, Mrs. Charles D. McCormick, by Mary Law McCormick
Mr. and Mrs. John F. McCune
Elizabeth W. McCutcheon
Dr. and Mrs. R. L. McDonald
Laurence P. McGinnis
Kleber S.
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. McGuire
Mrs. Robert C. McGuire
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Mathis in Honor of Nelda McHugh
Elsa K. MclIlwain
Joan McKervey
James W. McLaughlin
Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. McMichael III
Eleanor K. McMillan
Mabel E. McNary
Frederick J. and Ruth H. McNulty
Heather McPherson in Memory of John B. McPherson
Mr. and Mrs. William R. McWhirter, Jr.
Benjamin and Catharina M. Mehlan
In Loving Memory of Percy Freeman
Melville
Ana R. Menapace
Lydia Mendoza
Shirley Moore Menendez, Ph.D.
Maria Teresa Merriam
Florence T. Meschter
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Meyer
H. Emerson and Emma Holt Meyers
In Memory of James Michelsen
Simonne J. Michenon
Ann E. Middelthon
A. Richard Miller
Elise G. Miller
Iris Miller
Mr. and Mrs. MacKenzie Miller
Marion N. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Miller
Marvin Millison
In Memory of Julia Minton
Richard A. Mirsky
Mr. and Mrs. Carleton Mitchell
Constance Green Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Molinas
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas V. Monahan
Mrs. Anita P. Mongiovi
Gladys E. Montier
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore
Mrs. O. Ray Moore
W. G. Moore
In Memory of Domenick and Eugenia Morda
In Memory of Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Morino by Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Coffelt
Sylvia W. Morris :
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander H. Morrison
Esther Morrison
Margaret B. Morrison
Richard Mouton
Father Joseph Muha

<<<Page: 399>>>

Olga R. and Ralph L. Muros
Rev. Monsignor John Joseph Murphy
Anita Murray
Jennie Mustapha
Ruth E. Myer
E. Evelyn Myers
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence S. Myers, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Nagelhout
Mrs. Charles W. Naudain Helen K. M. Naudain
Deborah Copeland Neely
Mr. and Mrs. John U. Nef
Paul and Marilyn Nejelski
Mrs. Clarence F. Nelson
Arthur Neufeld
Mr. and Mrs. James C. New
Elizabeth L. Newhouse
Harold F. Newstead, Jr.
William L. Nicholls, II
Bruce W. Nichols
Mr. and Mrs. G. Richard Nisbeth
Nelleke Nix, artist
Pat Nolan
Saka Noma
Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.
Marie K. Noster
Prof. and Mrs. Benjamin Nunez
JoAnne S. O'Brien, D.V.M.
Justice O'Connor and Mr. John J. O'Connor III
Merry G. Oddo and Eric C. Walle
Mr. and Mrs. Paul T. O'Donoghue
Comdr. and Mrs. Lester E. Ogilvy
Brian and Margaret Oliver
Mrs. Margaret D. Olsen
Patricia Ryan Olson
Yvonne S. Olson and Charles F. A. Hall
Nancy Bertelsen O'Malley
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis
Ethel Orendorff
Nathaniel J. and Ellen S. Orleans
M. E. O'Rourke
Pauline Ortega
Donald R. Osborn
Ned A. Ostenso
Mr. and Mrs. Lambert B. Ott
Mr. and Mrs. S. Kaufman Ottenheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Overwein
Ruth A. Oviatt
Herbert B. Pahl
Alice Wang Pai and Shih-I Pai
Mrs. Anita P. Paige
Gilbert and Lynn Paige
Jennie Paluskiewicz
In Loving Memory of Rose Panaia
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Papillo
Chris and Miriam Parel
Dr. Rosemary Park
Charles Parkhurst
Glenn and Lee Parrish
Anna L. Patrick
Dr. M. V. Patrone
Patt Patterson
William E. Paulk, Jr.
Lois M. and Robert D. Pausch
Blanche Pavidis
Thomas and Katharine Pearce
In Memory of Mr. Henry Pearlman
Colonel and Mrs. Harold J. Pearson
Henry Charles Pearson
Mr. and Mrs. Nathan W. Pearson
Dr. William D. Pederson
I. M. Pei and Partners
The Honorable and Mrs. Claiborne Pell
In Honor of Pyrma Tilton Pell
Paul and Carla Olman Pererzak
Marianne Perry
Catherine Peters
Ella R. Pfeiffer
Helen C. Pfohl :
Christopher H. and Mabel O. Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Pichetto, Jr. in Memory of Stephen Pichetto
Ethel R. Pike
Dr. Edmund P. Pillsbury
Mr. and Mrs. David W. Pinkard
Elizabeth Ann Plack
Eleanor Poland
Mrs. John A. Pope
Mrs. Sarah H. Pope
Lillian L. Poses
Amy H. Pound
Anastasia A. Pratt
From Eugenie Prendergast in Memory of Maurice and Charles Prendergast
Norris and Betty Price
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Pritzlaff
Charles R. and Linda M. Privitera
Herbert Prokesch
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Pulcipher
Dr. and Mrs. M. F. Quesada
Jean A. Quick/R. C. Horn
J. Gary Quigg
Lenard and Sara F. Quinto
Lois L. Ramm
Pauline Ramsey
William L. Rankin
Florence and Eugene Ransom

<<<Page: 400>>>

Meigs L. Ranney
In Memory of Dr. Alfred L. Raphael
In Honor of Eliza Rathbone
Susan E. Rausch
Ravenal Foundation
In Memory of Lucy Thomas Rayman
Sara and Jim Read
Col. (Ret.) and Mrs. John Redmond
Janet C. Reed
Virginia B. Reed
Julie L. Reese
Robert Newton Reid
Edward Rensin
Michael Revetta
Walter E. Rex
Walter J. and Carole P. Rhodes
Marcelle G. Ricca
Annette Rich in Memory of Sophie Hoberman Rich
Pamela Beth Richards
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Richardson
Judith Richelieu
Rev. and Mrs. George Harriss Ricks, Sr.
Nancy Ridenour
Richard W. Rieder
In Memory of My Father, Rev. W. B. Rigg, and My Brother, Rev. F. W. Rigg
In Memory of C. Spencer Rippon
Frank and Helen Rippon
Joseph R. Ristorcelli
M.°H. W. Ritchie
George M. Riveire, Sr.
Michael and Cynthia Roark
In Memory of Douglas Robbins by Elisabeth R. Cole
Josephine T. Roberts
Ronald S. Robins
In Loving Memory of My Wife Jan RobisonJames E. Robison
Mr. and Mrs. David Rockefeller, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Rodano
Jane Rodman
In Memory of Elsa G. Rodriguez
Miguel A. and Isabel Rodriguez
Rosemary F. Rogers
Judy F. Romer -In Appreciation of the Beauty the National Gallery Bestows
Adele and Bernard Rosen
Mary Westfall Rosen
Donald Rosenbaum
Jean L. Kosenheim
Benjamin J. Rosenthal Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. Roth
Toby M. Rotman
Marya and Keturah B. Rowan
Mr. and Mrs. Hobart Rowe
May E. Roxburgh
Enid Rubenstein
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Ruberg
Lawrence Rubin, President, M. Knoedler Co., Inc.
Mr. John B. Rudder
In Honor of My Art History Teachers Dorothy E. Runge
Chlorinda V. Russo
Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. Sabine II
Donation by Marie C. Sadd in Memory of Victor Sadd
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Sadler
Beulah Sadoff
Rebecca Ann Saltz
Mr. and Mrs. S. Thomas Saltz
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Salus II
Florence M. Salvan
Mrs. Delfina Sandelin >
Marjorie Sanger
Anne Coates Sangree
Dee and Nick Sarelas
Jennifer Saville
Edith M. Sawin
Edith M. Sawin
Mrs. Leroy Lee Sawyer, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Morteza Sazegar
Leslie and Edna Scattergood
Debbie Schaefer-Jacobs and John M. Jacobs
In Memory of Anges E. Schaeffer
Rebecca L. Schafer
Herman F. Schexnyder
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart B. Schimmel
Elisabeth Jacqueline Schindler
Mr. and Mrs. Adolph W. Schmidt
Miss Marguerite V. Schneeberger
Timothy J. Schoepke
Lynn Scholz and Tedson J. Meyers
In Memory of My Father, Abraham Schreiber Madeleine H. Schreiber
Mrs. Taft B. Schreiber
Hon. and Mrs. Robert M. Schwarzbart
Merva E. Schweikart
Malvina Schweizer
Mary Ann Scott
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Scott
Joseph Scovronek
Dorothy J. Seelmann
Louise and Perry Sellon
Pearl Selwyn

<<<Page: 401>>>

In Memory of Rhoda G. Senft, by Elizabeth Senft
Miss Esther Severud
Kristine J. Shanahan
Ernest Shapiro
Ms. Barbara J. Sharf
Isaac and Estelle L. Sharon
John McKee Shaw
Mrs. Charles P. Shephard
Vicki A. Sherman
Janice W. Sherwood
Nancy and Alan Shestack
Nicholas and Eleanor Short
Mary Jean Shugars
Mrs. Norman P. Shumway
Drs. James N. and Mary Dunn Siedow
Jack and Lenore Silberman
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Silberstein
Miss Sophie Silfin in Gratitude to the National Gallery of Art
Judith A. Sillstrop
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Silverman
Mrs. John Farr Simmons
William G. Simpson, Jr., Greenwich, Conn. ;
Nancy Ann Sinagra
Mr. and Mrs. George Singer
Joel Alan Sink
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Skalka
Roger L. Slakey, Jr.
In Memory of Charles E. Slatkin
Jonathan W. Sloat
Bernard Slosberg
In Memory of Adele Smailis, Painter, 1893-1984
Elizabeth F. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. G. Wayne Smith
The Honorable and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith
Hugh Stewart Smith
Laura E. Smith
Lowell S. Smith and Sally A. Sanford
Margaret Lawson Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Smith
S. Wylie Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood B. Smith, Jr.
Mrs. William W. Smith
Marion and Nathan Smooke
Robert L. and Phyllis A. Snyder
Rose S. Snyder
Juli and Jim Sobka
Mrs. Sonia Storich Solmssen
Barbara Spangenberg
Nell R. Spannare
In Memory of Pfc. Donald W. Spark U.S.M.C. and Col. Michael M. Spark U.S.M.C.
Robert L. and Elizabeth M. Spatz
Stephen Spector
Mildred B. Spence
Dr. George F. Spilenberg
Theodore J. Spilman
Natalie Davis Spingarn
W. Cannon Spotswood
In Memory of Pearl Sprinzen
Margaret D. Spurling
Mary M. Stafford
Mary Jane Stafford
Lucile W. Stanton
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore 0. Stark
John E. Starrett
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Starzman
Fran Towson in Memory of Clifford Stech
Mrs. Ursula Stechow in Memory of Wolfgang Stechow
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth Steel
Mr. and Mrs. S. L. Sternberg
Grace D. Sterne
Dr. DeWitt Stetten and Jane Lazarow Stetten
Adele de Werff Stevens
Col. (Ret.) Donald K. Stevens
Lisa Stevens
In Memory of Stoddard M. Stevens
Deborah L. Stevenson
Mr. and Mrs. J. William Stewart
Chris L. Stokely
Susan Cooper Stokes
Michael S. and JaneAnn Stout
Bertram W. and Frances G. Strauss
Samantha Acson Streicher
Mr. and Mrs. Edgar A. Stromberg
Benjamin C. and Eleanore B. Sturgill
Eleanor Louise Sullivan
Mrs. Roger Sullivan
Janet Lord Sumner
Bruce G. Sundlun
Joanne Sunquist
Dechen P. Surkhang
Julie Sutton
Alice L. Swalm
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Swenson, Jr.
In Memory of Roy Bruce Swenson and In Honor of Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Swenson
Elizabeth C. Swift
George G. Szarvas
Britton D. Tabor

<<<Page: 402>>>

In Honor of Angelo F. Tamanini
Martha Barris Taylor
Ruth K. Taylor
William J. Taylor III
Dorothy Tebbetts
Texas School Pictures by Willis L. Smith
Paul Theerman
Ursula M. Theobald
Marcia Thomas
James R. Thomason
James R. Thomason
J. Bradbury Thompson
Josephine Cockrell Thornton
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Tievsky
Roy Anderson in Memory of Tiffany
Ruth I. Timmony
Dr. L. Tirnauer
Felicia May Titus in Memory of May C. and Leo M. Titus
In Memory of Mark Tobey, Artist, Baha'i Friend Joyce Lyon Dahl
Mary Toda
Michel Tombelaine
Hugh Oscar Tomlinson
John Edward Toole
Mr. and Mrs. Timothy L. Towell
Elizabeth K. Townsend
Mary D. Tracy
Ida T. Tracy in Memory of Robert L. Tracy ;
The Honorable and Mrs. Russell E. Train
Mrs. M. Tremblay
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Trentman
Joseph and Pamela Troy
John Chur Tsao
Larry J. Turner
Ann Ugelow
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Unger
United Dreamers of Fraser Valley
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Vaillancourt
Ann P. Van Gaasbeek
Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen
Janet C. Vance
Mildred Vance-Secular
Mrs. John L. Vanderslice
Magda Vasillov
Charles Owen Verrill, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur E. Vershbow
Donald and Deborah Vidican
Thomas G. Vitez
Jane G. Vogel
Barbara Von Goetz
Marcia F. Wackerhagen
Camile M. Waldrop
Allan E, and Katherine H. Walker, Jr.
Susan P, Walker
Lynette E. Waller
William Wallman
Mr. and Mrs. F. Howard Walsh, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Walstrom
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton
Mr. and Mrs. Alex Warner
Monroe Warshaw
Grace Ann Washbourne
Krystyna Wasserman
Leslie Watson
Mrs. Paul L. Wattis
Diane B. Waxman
Charles and Ellen Wayne
Eileen and Jesse Wayne
Melvin R. Weaver
R. Juanita Johnston in Memory of Wilmer E. Weaver, Sr.
Harold Webb
Clytie F. Webber
Mr. and Mrs. Francis D. Weeks
In Memory of Lee Weems from Pat and Dexter Bowman
In Memory of My Father, Dave Weinberg, by Son, Edward A. Weinberg
Martin A. and Diana K. Weiner
Ann L. Weinstein
Mary Z. Weisend
Marcia S. Weisman
Beverle and Ed Weller
Rose Marie Wells
Geraldine Westerfield
Mrs. Peggy M. Westerhold
Kathryn M. Westhoff
Dr. Alice Sunderland Wethey
William F. Whalen
Dr. and Mrs. Robert Wheat
Arthur K. Wheelock, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Morgan Dix Wheelock, Jr.
In Memory of Gertrude Griffiths White
Mr. and Mrs. John Kirkpatrick White
Mrs. Helen M. Whitebread
The Honorable and Mrs. Charles S. Whitehouse
Mrs. Leslie H. Whitten
Ms. Dorothy Whittington, El Paso, Texas
William J. Wiatrowski
Mr. Kurt Wiener
A, L. Wild
Sharon N. Willig

<<<Page: 403>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey
Edna M. Wilson
James H. Wilson
Judith Winshel
Clement and Sophie Z. Winston
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart J. Winston
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Winston
Stanley B. and Zdenka Winters
Karl P. and Flora N. Wirth
Dr. Paul E. and Mary Wisenbaugh
Milton and Evelyn D. Wittman
Mr. and Mrs. Alan F. Wohlstetter
Francis W. and Gloria P. Wolek
Sidney Wolins
Noel Tripp Woll
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Wolpoff
Bob Womack
Hilda L. Woodford
Ellen Wormser
Eleanora M. Worth
Dr. and Mrs. Bernard Wortman
Mrs. Charles K. Wright
Kenneth M. Wright
Mrs. Robert E. Wright
Mrs. George A. Wyeth
Amanda Yauger
Barbara Ethel Weaver Young
Bing Edward Young
Richard Margetts Young, D.D.S.
Captain and Mrs. Curtis T. Youngblood
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Yunger
In Memory of Hyman Zaretsky
Alfred and Judith Zernik
In Memory of My Mother, Rose Zeserman, by Helen Z. Baker
Edith R. Zeydel
Louis G. and Pamela Zinnecker
Mollie B. Zion
Col. and Mrs. Michael N. Zirkle
Saretta Zitver
In Memory of Marilyn Zucker Zupkoff

<<<Page: 404>>>

Appendix 9
Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1985
As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution has received federal support since it was established in 1846 to carry out the terms of James Smithson’s will. Appropriated funds have long provided important additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subse-
. . . . Oh Ree . $ . quent benefactors, to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for research and exhibition
of the national collections and maintenance of the valuable objects and records of science, history, an culture entrusted to the Institution.
The Smithsonian’s basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research, acquisition, and educational programs that are central to the Smithsonian’s achievements.
The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to all foundations, corporations, and individuals for their gifts, bequests, and contributing memberships in the Smithsonian Associates.
The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support the Institution’s work through annual contributions of $50, $100, $250, $500, and $1,000. © .
The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and recognize major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. The Society, which is the highest order of the Contributing Membership in the Smithsonian Associates, is composed of Annual and Life Membership categories. Extraordinary contributions to the Smithsonian Institution are recognized through the Society’s Founder Medal award and Life Membership.
The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous support of the James Smithson Society and the Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian Associates.

<<<Page: 405>>>

Mrs. Anni Albers
Mrs. Joseph V. Alhadeff
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Mr. David K. Anderson
Mr. Scott R. Anselmo
Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo
Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains
Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mrs. Frederick C. Bartlett
Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett
Mrs. Donald C. Beatty
Mrs. Henry C. Beck, dr.
Honorable and Mrs. Ralph E. Becker
Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford
Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Mrs. Gerald M. Best
Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat
Mr. Ricnard A. Bideaux
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner
Mr. and Mrs. Leigh B. Block
Mr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd
Mr, Lee Bronson
Mrs. David K. E. Bruce
Dr. Ruth Dawling Brunn and Dr. Bertel Brunn Dr. and Mrs. George —. Burch
Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Barnet Burstein
Mrs. Hyman Burstein
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hubbard Caldwell, Jr. Major General and Mrs. Daniel S. Campbell] Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell]
Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, dr.
Mr. Allan Caplan
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Mr. Robert L. Coleman Dr. and Mrs. George L. Mrs. Howard F. Cook Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornel] Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Cunningham Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling, II Mr. Jonn R. Doss
Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover Mr. Edward R. Downe, dr.
Dr. Dale B. Dubin
Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans
Compton
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi
Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield Dr. and Mrs, Lamont W. Gaston Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson
Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould Mr. Jerome L. Greene
Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross
Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall
Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer Mrs. Ricnard Harkness
Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold Mrs. Enid A. Haupt
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen
Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning Mrs. Edith Mansfield Hills Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
Mr. Paul Horgan
Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merril Klein Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land Dr. and Mrs. David Landau
Dr. Morris. P.. Leibovitz
Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and
Mr. Joshua M. Lepman
Mr. and Mrs. John Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Jonn A. Logan
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord
Mrs. Louis Lozowick
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Magowan Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian Mr. Jonn A. Masek
Honorable and Mrs. Robert M. McKinney Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Melzac Mr. Jack L. Messman
Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

<<<Page: 406>>>

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker Mrs. Edmund C. Monell
Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann Mr. Fredric Mueller
Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray
Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken
Dr. and Mrs. James Brooks Newbil] Honorable and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze Mr. and Mrs. Bob O'Leary
Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow Mrs. Rudolf Pabst
Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger Mrs. Jonn H. Phipps
Mrs. Jonn A. Pope
Mrs. Abraham Rattner
Mr. Jonn Paul Remensnyder
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts Honorable Martin J. Roess
Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.
Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose
Mr. Arthur Ross
Mrs. Edgar L. Rossin
Mrs. Howard J. Sachs
Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler Mr. and Mrs. Harry I. Saul
Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith Mr. Raphael Soyer
Mrs. Otto Spaeth
Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler Mr. Stuart M. Speiser
Mrs. Benjamin Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack Drs Richard Fs S. Sitar
Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz
Mrs. Katnerine Sergava Sznycer Tne Drs. Yen and Julia Tan
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Taylor, dr. Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper Mrs. Edith Hale Tnomas
Mr. Richard W. Thomssen
. Bardyl R. Tirana
Glenn O. Tupper
. Milton Turner
. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda
and Mrs. Francis S. Walker . and Mrs. C. C. Wang
. Richard W. Weatherhead
. and Mrs. Tnomas €. . Leonard E. Wilkinson
. Leonard Jonn Wilkinson
and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
. Cuc Kim Withers.
. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten, II . David 0. Woodbury
. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward
Whiteley
and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu
. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

<<<Page: 407>>>

Mr. and Mrs. W. Mike Adams
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson Honorable and Mrs. Walter H. Annenberg Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron
Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett
Mre and Mrs. Perry R. Bass Honorable and Mrs. Lucius D. Battle Mr. Henry C. Beck, dr.
Honorable and Mrs. Robert 0. Blake Mr. and Mrs. Winton M. Blount
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Boeschenstein Mr. Harry J. Bolwell
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Bookout
Mrs. John Bowles ;
Mr. and Mrs. Bob Brinkerhoff
Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks
Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Brown Honorable and Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr. Honorable and Mrs. Philip W. Bucnen Mrs. Jackson Burke
Mrs. Poe Burling
Dr. J. A. Burwell
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner
Dr. Cesar A. Caceres
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Campbell] Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, dr. Honorable and Mrs. Henry E. Catto, dr. Honorable and Mrs. Robert Horne Charles Mr. £. Taylor Chewning, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Coffin
Mr. and Mrs. Melvin S. Cohen Honorable and Mrs. James M. Collins Mr. Joseph E. Connor
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Cooley
Mrs. Gardner Cowles
Mrs. Raymond E. Cox
Miss Louise Crane
Mr. and Mrs. John David Crow
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph’ F. Cullman 3rd Dr. and Mrs. James H. Curl
Mr. Arthur J. Curry
Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry
Mrs. Keith Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona
Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey, Jr. Mr. Norman L. Dobyns
Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord R. Donnelley Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas
Mr. and Mrs. Archibald G. Douglas
Ms. Sara Dwyer | Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin Mr.cand Mrsvands “Aa Elkinsehdr.
Mr. John A. Ellerton
Mrs. Eric Eweson
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon W. Fantle
Mr. and Mrs. Reed M. Fawell, III
Mr. Walter Fitch, III
Honorable and Mrs. William H.G. FitzGerald Mrs. Julius Fleischmann
Mrs. Clifford Folger Mr. Jonn Dulin pole
Mr. and Mrs. William M. Fuller
Mr. and Mrs. John Gantt
Miss Rachel Gay
Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. Mr. Henry Goldberg
Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith
Mr. William B. Granam
Mr. and Mrs. Jonn Bradley Greene
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes
Mrs. Olivia Antoinette Griscom Honorable and Mrs. Najeeb E. Halaby Mr. William A. Hall, III
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes
Honorable and Mrs. W. Averell Harriman Mr. and Mrs. J. Warren Harris
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Honorable and Mrs. Parker T. Hart
Mr. Joseph H. Hazen
Jonn and Lucia Heard
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Heiskell
Mr. Richard D. Hill]
Mr. Edwin K. Hoffman
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Holladay
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Hudson
Mr. R. Bruce Hunter
Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin, II Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels
Mr. and Mrs. George Frederick Jewett, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Johnson
Mr. J. E. Jonsson
Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Josey
Mrs. Garfield Kass
Mr. and Mrs. Ira R. Katz
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Dorrance, Jr. | | }

<<<Page: 408>>>

Honorable and Mrs. W. John Kenney
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Keresey
Mrs. Virginia K. Kettering
Honorable and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder Mr. and Mrs. William S. Kilroy
Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby
Honorable and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick Mr. Seymour H. Knox
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox, III Mrs. Elizabeth Gelman Kossow
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Kubik
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock
Mrs. S. Kent Legare
Mr. and Mrs. Walker Lewis
Mr. William C. Liedtke, Jr.
Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey
Mr. and Mrs. Lester B. Loo
Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick
Lt. General and Mrs. Sam Maddux, dr. Mrs. Jd. Willard Marriott, Sr.
Honorable and Mrs. William McChesney Martin, Jr.
Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli
Mr. David 0. Maxwell
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick Honorable and Mrs. George C. McGhee Mr. and Mrs. Alexander «. McLanahan Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Mrs. Henry S. McNeil
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead
Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers
Mr. Paul Mellon
Dr. Ruben F. Mettler
Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller
Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.
Mr. Dan M. Moody, dr.
Colonel McLendon G. Morris
Dr. Josepnine L. Murray
Honorable and Mrs. Jonn R. Norton, III Commander and Mrs. Lester Ogilvy Mr. Ricard R. Onrstrom
Mr. George L. Onrstrom
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Bruce Olds Honorable and Mrs. Daniel Parker Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Ms. Helen Ann Patton
Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles
Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Philips
Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Pickens
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott
Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury Mr. Louis F. Polk
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price
Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Jr.

<<<Page: 409>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Walter T. Ridder Mr. and Mrs. Robert Ridder
Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock
Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller
Mrs. Blanka A. Rosenstiel
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Roth
Mrs. William Roth
Honorable and Mrs. Kenneth Rush Mr. and Mrs. Edward L Sdiers
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul, II Mr. Alton N. Scott
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.
Lt. General and Mrs. George M. Seignious, II
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Silverstein Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Dr. and Mrs. Lionel J. Skidmore Mr. and Mrs. David E. Skinner
Mr. and Mrs. Gerard Slawecki
Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith Honorable and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Raymond F. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Stamper
Mr. Arthur J. Stegall Jr.
Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright and Mes. Edith €. Steinbright
Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan Mr. Bruce G. Sundlun
Mr. James C. Taylor
Dr. Arthur L. Thiele
Mr. and Mrs. Russell E. Train
Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland
Mr. and Mrs. Jean L. Vaillant
Honorable and Mrs. Thomas J. Watson, dr.
Mr. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.
Mr. Leigh R. Weiner
Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Wellin Honorable John C. Whitehead , Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann
Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Wray
. Mary M. Ashmore . John L. Black . and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman
Richard Bolling
. Harold M. Boslow
Donald S. Bowman
. John W. Bowman
.» and Mrs. Townsend Burden, III .Laurence L. Champion
. Harold W. Cheel
. and Mrs. Francis X. Coleman, Jr. . William N. Copley
. Melvin F. Lee
s. Jacob J. Lehrman
. Jonn G. Makauskas
i Feaksuilansagdrs
. Michael E. Mazer
. Terence Mcauliffe
. and Mrs. Peter Monrose . Anthony Jonn Mourek
. David W. Munn
. Jonn F. Olmstead
« de Sa Parker
. Gene Perry
. Helen G. Price
. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice . Francis C. Rooney, dr. . and Mrs. Robert W. Root . John R. Royall
. Jerry W. Ryan
| Gs. Whe Scott
. A. R. Javris Sinclair
. Sydney Stein, dr:
. Craig D. Sutherland
. Gardiner Symonds
. Jeremy P. Waletzky
. and Mrs. J. P. Wallerich . Warren K. Wilhelm
. Andrew W. Williams
. Louise W. Willson
. and Mrs. Irwin Winker
. Jonn W. Winn
. W. H. Wolf
. and Mrs. Robert T. Woolverton . James 0. Wright
. Bernard J. Young

<<<Page: 410>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Byrle M. Abbin Hon. and Mrs. James E. Akins Mr. Thomas Aldredge
Ms. Marcia Y. Almassy
Mrs. Paul S. Anderson
Col. and Mrs. John S. Anderson Mr. F. C. Anderson
Mr. G. J. Andrews
Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes
Mrs. L. M. Aroniss
Mrs. Theodore Babbitt
Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Ball, dr. Mr. Jean L, Barker
Mrs. Earl W. Barnes
Ms. Janine F. Barre
Mrs. W. P. Battell
Mr. Ralph B. Beals
Mrs. Anna S. Beckman
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Bemis Mr. and Mrs. €. E. Benedict Col. and Mrs. George C. Berger Mr. James H. Berkson
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett Mr. Harry M. Bickford
Mrs. Deane M. Black
Mrs. Hill Blackett
MieeiGe aN. Bilan
Ms. Maritha Blalock
Mrs. Edna F. Blum
Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Blum Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg Mr. J. A. Boorman
Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T. Bowie Mrs. Constance T. Boyd
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A Brechler Mr. Robert C. Breckenridge
Mr. and Mrs. Leo V. Brenna
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Brickel Mr. and Mrs. William E. Brock Mrs. Alger T. Bunten
Mrs. R. M. Burgess —~
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Burka Mr. Nicholas Busn
Mr. —. T. Byram
Mr. Milton Cades
Mr. Mark J. Carroll
Dr. and Mrs. Rocco Cassone
Dr. William M. Chardack
Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett Mr. and Mrs. Jerald L. Clark Dr. David A. Cofrin
Mr. S. Harold Cohen
Ms. Virginia M. Collins
Col. J. M. Compton
Mr. Frederick D. Cornelius
Mrs CurtisnweCox
Ms. Joyce Creamer
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph William Cuddy Mr. and Mrs. Roy Cullen e Dr. Robert D. Cunningham
Capt. and Mrs. R. L. Daniels Mr and Mrs. Elwood Davis
“Mr. Cnarles Alfred Davis
Mrs. Alva A. Dawson
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Dean Mr. Arthur F. Dellheim
Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas I. Dolan Mr. David C. Dressler
Mr. and Mrs. Irenee Du Pont, Jr. Ms. Mary Jane C. Due
Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr Mr. F. H. Ellenberger
Mr. Ward Ellis
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Ellis
Mr. Harry Emlet
Col. Charles 0. Eshelman
Dr. and Mrs John Esswein
Mr. Jonn Farnam
Mr. and Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner Mr. Nicholas M. Ferriter
Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Fesler
Mr. Charles T. Fisner, III
Mr. Julius Fleischman
Mr. Gordon J. Flescn
Mr. Peter Flynn
Dr. and Mrs. Giraud VY. Fost Mr. Kenneth Foster
Mr. Henry W. Franklin
Capt. and Mrs. J. E. Galloway Ms. Kathleen K. Gann
Mrs. J. Gardiner
Mr. Mario F. George
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Gerding Miss Helen W. Giacobine
Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Glaser
Mr. Richard W. Goldman
Col. and Mrs. Julius Goldstein

<<<Page: 411>>>

Mrs. Seabury S. Gould, IV Mrs. Earle Gray
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green Mr. Barron K. Grier
Mr. and Mrs. William P. Groves Mr. Ernest T. Guy
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick H. Haas Mr. Theodore J. Hadraba, dr. Mr. H. H. Hamra
Ms. Helen Leale Harper
Mr. Irving B. Harris
Mr. William J2 Harris, Jr. Dr. Judith K. Hart
Mrs. Robert K. Harwick
Mrs. Florence Hawley
Mr. Daniel Hays
Miss Annabelle Heath
Mr. and Mrs. Felder Heflin Mr. H. C. Heldenfels
Mr. B. D. Henderson
Mrs. Catherine Herman
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hickman Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hinton Mr. James Hobbins
Mr. Andy Hogan
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond Holden Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Holden Col. and Mrs. Harry Holloway Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Holtz
Mr. J. King Horner
Mrs. Ruth Housek
Mr. J. W. Howell]
Dr. and Mrs. John Hoyert
Mr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey
Mr. Rollo Jacobs, Jr.
Mr. Eugene Johnson
Mr. Edward Jonas
Mr. Walter Keating
Mrs. George C. Keiser
Ms. Juanita Kelly
Dr. George A. Kelser, Jr. Mr. A. Atwater «ent, Jr.
Mr. Patrick King
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Kirby Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Kirchheimer Sgt. David Kirschbaum
Ms. Anne Knowles
Ms. Jane Kosa
Mr. Norman Kreisman
Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar
Qo 405
Mr. Stanley Kuliczkowski Mrs. E. N. Laboyteaux
Judge and Mrs. Marion Ludwig Mr. and Mrs. Edward Lammerding Mr. Sanford Langwor thy
Ms. Agatha Larson
Dr. Jack Layton
Mr. Sperry Lea
Mr. William Leier
Ms. G. E. Lemos
Hon. William Leonhart
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Levan
Mr. and Mrs. M. William Levy Mr. Gayle Lichtenstein
Mrs. Eunice K. Lipkowitz
Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield Mr. Joseph R. Lorence
Miss Doris Lothrop
Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Love
Ms. Helen Malmstead
Mr. E. Mandac
Mr. Harry Mandil
Mr. Robert Marmon
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Mathias Lt. Col. and Mrs. Glenn Mayer Mr. Gordon McBride
Mr. Thomas C.McCague
Mr. Donald E. McCallister Ms. K. M. McCauley
Mr. James D. McClary
Mr. —£. J. McCormack, Jr.
Mr. Jack H. McCreery
Mr. Clayton McCuistion
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Edward McKee
Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean Mr. Dan G. McNamara
Mr. Mar¢cus Mehtonen
Mr. Benjamin T. Meintzer, Sr. Mr. Edmund P. Messick, Jr. Mr. Jonn —. Meyer
Mr. Paul D. Meyer
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone Mr. Richard D. Miller
Mr. Warren G. Miller
Dr. William J. Mitchel]
Dr. David R. Montz
Mr. Mark Moorman
Mrs. Ann K. Morales
Mr. Michael A. Moran

<<<Page: 412>>>

Mr. James Mulshine
Dr. Clifford M. Nelson
Mr. Scott Newton
Mr. Stuart C. Nichols
Mr. William J. O'Connor, Jr. Ms. R. O'Hara
Mrs. John O'Master
Mrs. Leah H. Owen
Mr. Arnold E. Palmer
Mrs. Mary J. Papworth
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard E. Pasek Mr. James R. Peace
Mr. C. L. Pecchenino
Miss Jacqueline Perry
Mee We Mo Piatt. El
Mr. Bruce Piegols
Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike Mr. and Mrs. R. Stephen Polley Mr. Paul E. Pontius
Ms. Doris D. Poole
Mr. and Mrs. Melville J. Price Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Ratcliffe Mr. Carl Ratner
Mr. Michael F. Reagan
Mrs. H. I. Rhine
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Richards Mr. and Mrs. William W. Richardson Ms. Portia T. Richter
Dr. and Mrs. R. C. Riggle
Dr. J. Jerome Rinaldi
Ms. Mary M. Roberts
Mr. Dietrich Roesler
Mr. Thomas D. Rogers
Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal
Mr. Ray W. Rosevear
Mr and Mrs. H. J. Rowe
Mrs. Gilbert H. Ruderman
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo
Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr.
Ms. Louise Sagalyn
Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr.
Hon. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer Mr. Robert Schneider
Mr. Morton W. Schomer
Mr. and Mrs. James E. Schwab Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Selinsky Mr. and Mrs. Steven M. Shore Mr. Robert H. Short
Mr. and Mrs. Milton L. Shurr Mr. W. W. Sidney
Mr. Mr.
Mrs.and Mrs. Albert H. Small
. Charles E. Smith
Thomas F. Smith
. and Mrs. Michael Sonnenreich . Hugh M. South
. Roger Squire
and Mrs. David L. Stanford .Jonn J. Stanton
. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens . Jeffrey Sturgess
William R. Sullivan, II
. donn Robert Sullivan, dr. . Arthur H. Sulzberger
ioe C.-SVTOK Ia. Un.
Sally Sweetland
. and Mrs. Richard 0. Swim
. and Mrs. J. T. Taylor
May Day Taylor
. and Mrs. William S. Thomas . Arlene K. Tnomashow
. Jonn L. Thornton
. B. W. Thoron
. Gerald Timm
» Helen B. Tormcen
. George S. Trees, Jr.
. Jonn H. Turner
. Charles A. Turner, III
. Jean A. Twitchell
. and Mrs. C.'W.°Valencourt, Jr. . and Mrs. L. Von Hoffman
. Lawrence Wahl
. Theodore H. N. Wales
. Robert Walker
. Susan P. Walker
Richard B. Wallace
. and Mrs. Frank S. Walters . Dexter Wansel
. V. Phillips Weaver
. Mary E. Weber
. Nathan Wechsler
. Patricia F. Wheeler
and Mrs. M. Silverman M. R. Sim Eileen S. Slack
Dennis A. Wheeler
Miss Lida Whitaker
Gol. Mrs.
Ms, Mr.
and Mrs. Grover C. Wnite, Jr. B. A. Whitmarsh
Mary Wibel
and Mrs. P. A. 8. Widener

<<<Page: 413>>>

Mrs. Vivian Wildman
Ms. Pauline E. Williman Mrs. John M. Willits
Mr. David C. Willmon
Mr. Thomas P. Wolf
Dr. Sheila Z. Wood
Mr. Wayne D. Woodson
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley Mrs. S. T. Wyland
Mr. and Mrs. Gary B. Yost Mr. Leo A. Young
Mr. George H. Ziener
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Zitter
Mrs.
Mr. Mr. Ms.
David C. Acheson Paul Adams
Jonn A. Adams Drucilla Adams
. David J. Adamusko
. Roger S. Alhbrandt
. P. Albiez
. and Mrs. Donald C. Alexander . Ricnard T. Alexander, Jr. . Lynne L. Alfieri
. and Mrs. William C. Allbert . and Mrs. H. K. Allen
» and Mrs. Robert H. Allen
. Thomas Roy Allen
. Steven J. Alien
. Ethan Allen
. Charles D. Allen
. Katherine Allen
. Katherine F. Allen
. James H. Allison
. and Mrs. George E. Allison . Carolyn Alper
. and Mrs. Donald F. Ames
. and Mrs. H. Max Ammerman
. and Mrs. E11is B. Anderson . Thomas W. Anderson
. and Mrs. M. E. Anderson
. Jd. Donald Anderson
. James A. Anderson
. Artnur Andraitis
. Henry D. Angelino
. Keith W. Antcliff
Alfred C. Antoniewicz 4
Miss Marcia Ann Appel
Mr. Mr.
Earl S. Archibald Walter W. Arensberg
Miss Marie G. Argana
Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Ms. Mr. Ms. Mr. Mr. Mr, Ms.
R. Arkin
T. Stanto Armour
and Mrs. William D. Armstrong V. H. Arnold
Marlene A. Atkinson
and Mrs. Jonn C. Atwood, dr. Jean M. Auel
and Mrs. Joseph Aug]
G. Augustin
and Mrs. Norman G. Bach Mildred Bacn

<<<Page: 414>>>

Mr. Gordon N.Backlund
Mr. Harold Baer
Mr. William W. Baker
Mr. Warren Baker
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Balfour Captain and Mrs. Stuart M. Ball Mr. James R. Ball, II
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Ballard Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Barbieri Mr. George L. Barbour
Mr. Michael Barczak
Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld
Mr. and Mrs. Allen E. Barlow Mr. Lee Barnes
Mr. William Barstow
Captain Celia Barteau
Mr. Art Bartlett
~ Mr. day Barton
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. -Bash Mr. and Mrs. Frank E. Basil Ms. Margaret R. Baudoin
Mr. Jeffrey D. Bauman
Ms. M. G. Baumgarten
Dr. David R. Bayless
Mr. Robert D. Baynes
Mr. Donald R. Bean
Mr. Jonn W. Bean
Mr. W. H. Beardsley
Mr. R. Gifford Beaton
Mr. Jonn R. Beaver
Mr. Eugene H. Beck
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Becker Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman Mr. Charles Beer
Migen Eeuls Bel
Mrs. Jack Bender
Dr. and Mrs. Richard W. Benjamin Dr. Warren Bennett
Ambassador and Mrs. W. Tapley Bennett, ‘Jr.
Mrs. Harriet F. Benson
Mr. Ralph F. Bergman
Ms. Marie Bergmann
Mr. George W. Bermant
Mr. John A. Bernard
Mr. Samuel W. Bernneimer
Mr. and Mrs. Jules Bernstein Dr. William R. Bertelsen
Ms. Margaret Bethany
Mrs. William J. Bettingen Mr. Albert J. Beveridge, III
Miss E. I. Beyer
Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.
John A. Biddle Joseph B. Bidwell Anthony P. Biemans H. Harold Bishop
Miss Elixa H. Bishop
Mr. Mr.
Robert E. Black and Mrs. Donald Eric Black
. Page Blackstock
. and Mrs. W. D. Blackwood . and Mrs. Douglas L. Blairand Mrs. Floyd F.. Blair
. Annalee Blanchard
. James Blaser
. Harrye Blethroad
Frank Bliss ..Jr.
Theodore S. Bly
. Enola V. Bode
Merlin P. Bodin
. David Bodycombe
. George P. Bogumil]
Ss Be BOLCH
Fred W. Borrish
. Barbara C. Bottarini
and Mrs. Maxwell BovermanSteven R. Bowen
.and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles
and Mrs. Jay M. Boyd
Miss Eugenie R. Bradford
Mr. Mr,
Mrs. Mrs.
Mr. Mr.
Mrs.
Frank W. Bradley
James Bradley
Frank Brandon
Helen M. Brandt
James Brannan
and Mrs. Calvin Brantley
. F. E. Brantley
. G. J. Brawner
. and Mrs. Karl K. Breit
. and Mrs. Roy Bremerman, Jr.
Gene C. Brewer
. John F. Breyer, Jr.
and Mrs. Clemens 8. Bribitzer . John F. Bricker
Robert L. Bridges Diane A. Bringgold
Miss E. G. Brintnall
Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.
Ronald C. Britt
and Mrs. George H. Brodie and Mrs. Robert Brody
and Mrs. Jonn A. Bross

<<<Page: 415>>>

Mrs. . Patricia L. Brown
. Ruth L. Brown
. Jack W. Brownyard
. and Mrs. €. Edward Bruce
. Steven Brummel
. and Mrs. Gerard E. Bundige
. Glen W. Bruner
. Dick Brush
. and Mrs. Michael E. Buckley . and Mrs. Fredrick Buechner
~ and Mrs. W: C.. Buldock
. Fredrick P. Burgee
. James M, Burger
. and Mrs. Fredrick F. Burks
. Julia T. Burlen
. Col. and Mrs. Robert M. Burnham . and Mrs. R. L. Burnham, Sr.
Arlene A. Brown
and Mrs. James J. Burr
Miss Edna-Lea Burruss Miss Martha E. Burton
Mr. Mr. Mr.
Joseph Murton and Mrs. Glenn F. Burton and Mrs. E. L. Buttner
. and Mrs. William M. Cahn, dr. . Joseph Calabria
. Donald A. Caldwell
. Donald E. Callahan
. George Campbell
. Philip L. Cantelon
. Lawrence E. Cantrell, dr.
. Mary H. Carder
. Albert I. Cardiff
. and Mrs. Frank L. Carey, Jr. . Jd. D. Carmichael
>. Oliver Ti. Carr, Jr.
s Philae tt. Carret
. and Mrs. Frank E. Carroll
. Patricia Carroll
. David C. Carruth
. Bruce F. Carson
. and Mrs. Waller Carson, Jr. . and Mrs. Leo A. Carten
and Mrs. Douglas H. CarterRobert A. Cashel]
. John J. Cashmire
and Mrs. William H. Casson . Sebastino J. Castro
Cheryl] A. Cataldo
and Mrs. Catania
Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.
B. R. Cayward
and Mrs. Clifford S. Charles Harry R. Charles, Jr.
Robert David Charny
Radm. and Mrs. John D. Chase
.Joel Chaseman
. Henry S. Chenault, dr.
. Boris E. Cherney
. and Mrs. John C. Chester
and Mrs. Bernard P. Chewning
. John €. Cim
. Robert 0. Clanton
. Sylvia M. Clark
. H. Lawrence Clark
. and Mrs. W. E. Clayton, Jr. . and Mrs. W. H. Clement
. William H. Cochrane
. Helen H. Cohen
. and Mrs. Wallace M. Cohen
. Victor Cohen
. Brenda K. Colasanti
. Addison D. Cole
. and Mrs. Sydney Cole
. William T. Coleman, Jr.
. Robert A. Collier
. Stanley E. Collins
. Margaret S. Collins
and Mrs. 1. Clyde Collins: dr.
Philip L. Collyer
Miss Berita E. Compton
Mrs.
and Mrs. Louis C. Conant Herman Cone, dr. H. D.. Gonkey, tl
Miss Vivian G. Conklin
. Gerard Conn
. Charles W. Consolvo
. Thomas Cook
. and Mrs. William L. Coon . Mark £. Cooper
. Jonn N. Cooper
. Gladys 0. Cooper
. Mary L. Cooper
. Janet B. Cooper
. William Copley
. Janis M. Coray
. and Mrs. George L. Cornell . Walter H. Corson
. and Mrs. Ralph J. Coselli . J. Harry Covington
. Norman J. Cowen

<<<Page: 416>>>

Miss Mary L. Cox Mrs. Walter W. Doescher
Mr. and Mrs. David M. Crabtree Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Dolstra
Mr. Geoffrey Creede Mr. David Cremers Mr. Sigmund R. Domanski
Mr. W. Raymond Crosier Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Donaghy Mrs. Richard S. Cross Mrs. LloydDonant
Mr. BD. *L'.. Crosstey Mrs. David Donovan
Mr. David Crow Mr. and Mrs. DO. A. Doran
Mr. Lewis W. Crowell Mrs. Joyce N. DortchMr. Alden Lowell Doud Mr. and Mrs. James W. Crowley Mr. Joseph F. Douglas
Mr. Virgil L. Cunningham Mr. Karl Douma
Mr. James J. Cunningham Mr. D. D. Dowling
Mr. Charles S. Curran Mr. and Mrs. Jonn Doyle
Mr. Mark H. Curits Mr. George A. Dragan, Jr.
Ms. Ida D. Cuthbertson Dr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage Mrs. Richard M, Cutts Mr. and Mrs. John Doyle
Ms. Mae E. Dahl Mr. and Mrs. Louis Drummeter, Jr. Mr. Terry G. Dallas Mr. Russell F. Dubes
Mr. Kevin B. Dalton Mr. and Mrs. David A. Duff Mrs. Marshall B. Dalton Ms. Joanne E. Dumene
Mr. W. Wallace Danserau Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Duncan Mr, L. Randall Daspit Dr. and Mrs. Vernon J. Dwyer Dr. T. G. Daughtridge Mr. A. Dzigas
Ms. June Dunn Davis Mr. Norman Q. Eaddy
Mrs. Evellyn Y. Davis Dr. and Mrs. William M. Eagles Mrs. Jerry R. Davis Mr. Erie L. Eakin
Mr. ‘DY Earcy 'P. Davis, dr: Mr. and Mrs. John A. Earnest Mr. E. A. Dawson Mrs. Henry T. Eaton
Mr. and Mrs. C. Woodford Dayton Mr. Edward E. Eckert
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander E. Dean Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Eckley Ms. Marie B. Debacher Mr. Mark «. Edmondson
Mr. Marvin Dekelboum Miss V. A. Edwards
Mr. and Mrs, Ben T. Delanay Mrs. Emmet Edwards
Capt. and Mrs. Victor Delano Mrs. Eleanor B. Edwards
Ms. Margaret Delk Mr. Edward W. Ehle
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Deming Mr. Peter 0. Ehrenhaft
Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Denzler, dr. Mr. Lawrence A. Ehrhart
Mr. Edward J. Devine ' Miss Babs Eisman
Mr. Lowel] Deyoung Or. Paul Der Elder
Mrs. Robert L. Dick Mr. Robert B. Eldridge
Dre Paul Fe. Dickens, Jr. Mrs. Leila Eley
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Dickerson Mrs. Virginia Ellingsworth
Mr. Phil Dickey Mrs. R. E. Ellinwood
Mr. J. E. Diegelman Radm, and Mrs. Robert W. Elliott, Jr. Hon. Douglas Dillon Mr. Paul G. Ellis
Mr. William Dingeldein Mr. Bernard Ellis
Dr. and Mrs. Ernest M. Dixon Mr. George T. Elmore
Mr, Keith A. Dobbins Ms. Helen J. Emigh
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, dr. Mr. Ostrom Enders
Mr. J. G. Dobry Mr. and Mrs. Richard England
it. Gen. and Mrs. Charles G. Dodge Mrs. Jane M. Epstine

<<<Page: 417>>>

Mr. A. C. Escalle
Mr. Robert Escobar, dr.
Mr. Allen Eskind
Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Estridge Mrs. William R. Eubank
Mr. John N. Eustis
Mr. W. M. Evans
Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr. Miss Constance M. Ewy
Mr. Henri Eyl
Ms. Marilyn Farrand
Mrs. Ernest R. Feidler
Dr. Michael Jon Feinstein
Mr. Joseph T. Fenn
Col. and Mrs. Lucian M. Ferguson Mr. Nathan L. Ferris
Mr. and Mrs. William Fette Colonel Gerald Fink
Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer Colonel and Mrs. Robert Fisher Mr. and Mrs. Bennet Fisher Ms. Mary G. Fitzpatrick
Miss Caroline Flaccus
Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty Mr. Dennis Flemons
Ms. Josephine Flood
Mr. R. E. Fochtman
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Folkerth Mr. Albert A. Folop
Mr. C. Herbert Foutz
Mr. and Mrs. William F. FranckMs. Mary M. Free
Mrs. Janet Freeman
Mr. John Freeman
Mrs. Marian Freese
Mrs. Donald French
Mr. Cary J. Frieze
Mr. Art Frink
Mr. William C. Frogale
Mr. Warren Fugate
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Fuller
Mr. Eugene R. Gabriel
Mr. Thomas J. Galligan, Jr. Mr. Alan Gallinger
Miss Mildred Bambil]
Mr. John Gardner
Mr. Bob Gardner
Dr. A. B. Gardner
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Garfink Mr. and Mrs. John Garney
Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Garney Mrs. John Gates, dr.
Mr. and Mrs. Carleton Gebnardt Mr. Edward Geehan
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Geller Mr. Peter Geller
Mr. Gerald Gentry
Dr. William Gerber
Mr. Carl Gewirz
Mr. Joseph Ghilardi
Ms. Frances Gibson
Dr. and Mrs. David Gibson Mr. Lincoln Gilbert
Mr. Wallace Giles
Mrs. Sara Gillis
Mrs. Paul Gilpatric
Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Glasberg Mrs. E. W. Glascock
Dr. Leonard Glassman
Dr. Sanford Glazer
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Gleason Mr. Paul Gleich
Mr. and Mrs. George Gleim Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn
Mr. David Glunt
Mr. W. Jd. Godard
Mr. Raymond Goldberg
Mr. Leslie Goldberg
Mr. Stuart Goodman
Mr. and Mrs. James Goodrich Miss Elinor Goodspeed
Mrs. Lois Gordon
Mr. Albert Gordon
Mr. James Gorman
Mr. and Mrs. William Gouldsbury Mr. Jonn Grady
Mr. George Graham
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Granam Mr. D. P. Granam
Mr. Harold Grant, dr.
Mr. Bradford Gray
Mrs. Dorothy Green
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Green, II Mr. Preston Greene
Mrs. Judith Greene
Dr. M. Jean Greenlaw
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Greenough Mr. Seymour Greenstone
Mr. Mark Greenwold
Mr. Richard Gregg

<<<Page: 418>>>

Mrs. . Richard Grill
. William Grimes
. Donald Grimes, Jr.
. Audrey Groene
. Helen Grossman
. Nancy Grove
A. G. Gudmundson
. Marilyn Guerra
. Peter GulottaMrs. Helen W. Gunderson » Lee P. Haacner
. and Mrs. Alvin Haas
Joseph Gregg
Miss Elizabeth P. Hagen
Mr. Mr. Mr, Mr.
Col.
Mr. Mr. Mr. Ms. Mr. Mr. Mr.
and Mrs. Alexander S. Haig and Mrs. Maxwell L. Hall
and Mrs. Samuel Halpern
and Mrs. Theodore M. Hamandy and Mrs. William T. Hamilton, Jr.
Kenneth A. Hamman
and Mrs. B. C. Hammock
and Mrs. Ewin A. Hansen
Morella T. Hansen
Kurtz M. Hanson
Charles C. Hansult
and Mrs. Paul 0. Harder
Miss Dorcas Hardin
Eldon A. Hardy
. Paul Hardy
. Hardy Hargreaves
. Robert A. Harper
. Robert C. Harris
. Michael J. Hatfield
and Mrs. Ronald W. Haughton . Mones E. Hawley
. Jonn T. Hayes
. and Mrs. Andrew Hayes
. Louis J. Hazel
. <enneth P. Head
. Arthur ‘Hebert
. Robert C. . and Mrs. David R. Heebner rhe We. FHOT.
. and Mrs. Donald E. Hendersonand Mrs. Douglas B. Hendrick . Jeffrey _. Hendry
. Robert M. Henry
. Jack E, Herington
Paul C. Herndon
Arnold L. Hespe
Se 40. Hessler
Hector
Ms. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrs. Mr. Dr. Ms. Mr. Brig Mr.
Mr. Mr. Capt Mr.
Ms. Radm
Mr. Goll
Doris Hiatt
William L. Higgins f and Mrs. Friedrich Hilken and Mrs. William J. Hines J. H. Ward Hinkson Joseph U. Hinshaw
S. R. Hobgood
Eleanor J. Hoehn
and Mrs. C. W. Hogan
+ Gen. Es P.Hoisington
Duncan A. Holaday
Nick Holland Richard Hollander SRN. Hod ley Jonn M. Holm
. Franklin P. Holman
. and Mrs. Richard Hook
. Gregory Hopfer
. Ann Hopping
. Jennifer J. Horinek
. and Mrs. Howard D. Howell
~ Sally’ G.cHoyt
Samuel G. Hubbard
. W. C. Huffman
. Jacqueline HugginsbestemanEvelyn 1. ~ and Mrs. As DS Hulings . William R. Humphrey
. Frank Hunsicher
William R. Hunter
and Mrs. James D. Hurd . Emma Gade Hutaff
Huisentruit
Marjorie P. Hutchinson
. and Mrs. Walter D. E. Innis
. Jonn R. Jacoway
. John M. Jacquemin
. and Mrs. Jonathan Ravid Jaffe . Sidney A. Jaffe
. Reinhardt H. Jahn
. William P, Jambor, Jr.
. and Mrs. Chet H. Jameson, Jr. . W. N. Jardine
and Mrs. Thomas E. Jenks
. Thomas A. Jensen
. J. J. Jeresek
. Ludwig Jesselson
. Frances Jingoli
Timothy A, Johnson Alfred H, Jonnson
Mr. and Mrs. A. Sidney Holderness, Jr.

<<<Page: 419>>>

Mr. Mr. Ms. Mr. Mr. Ms. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Dr. Mr.
Woodrow C. Johnson
and Mrs. David D. Johnson Diane S. Johnson
Ray A. Johnson
Ernest S. Johnston Virginia A. Johnston Charles Johnston
James E. Jones
William J. Jones
Thomas Q. Jones
Gordon: W. Jones
and Mrs. Richard E. Jones
Mrs. Margaret P. Jones
Bernard Artnur Jones
Miss Charlotte Jones
and Mrs. Samuel C. Jones
. G. Quinton Jones, Jr. . and Mrs. John B. Jones, Jr.
Robert E. Jordan Thomas A. Jordan
. Norman Jorgenson . Herbert H. Joseph
and Mrs. Edward H. Judson and Mrs. Albert H. Jung
. Forrest Junod
. Edmund J. Kahn
. and Mrs. S. C. Kaim
and Mrs. Bernard M. Kalstone . John D. H. Kane
. Emanuel Karadimos
. Robert H. Karatz
» R. H. Karns
. and Mrs. Richard A. KaslowJack Katz
. and Mrs. Joseph T. Kaye
Dennis A. Keefe
Major John R. Keiper, dr.
Bruce Alan Keller
. Robert xeller
Rosa F. Keller
. and Mrs. H. J. Kellner
. J. E. Kemper
and Mrs. Harris L. Kempner, Jr.and Mrs. George P. Kendall, dr.and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy
. David T. Kenney
Anna Marie Kent
. B. R. Kent
. Kenneth E. Kerle
. and Mrs. Arthur H. Keyes, Jr.
Mr. Walter H. Kidd
Mr. Gary Kilpatrick
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. King
Lt. Cmdr. Kenneth J. King Mr. William W. King
Mr. «. M. Kirkpatrick
Mr. and Mrs. K. W. Klages Mr. Kenneth W. Klein
Mr. Robert P. Klein
Mr. David R. Kline
Ms. Linda Heckman Kling
Mrs. Ju. K. Knee
Mr. M. G. Knerr
Ms. Teresa Knoester
Mr. Jonn W. Knowles
Mrs. dames H. Knowles
Mr. David W. Knudsen
Ms. Jean R. Knutsen
Mrs. Ruth H. Kodani
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard R. Kojm Mr. John P. Kondig
Mrs. Anna Kovasznay
Mrs. June F. Kraft
Mr. Joseph J. Krebs, Jr.
Mr. Irving Kreisberg
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Kruidenier Ms. Barbella F. Kuenz
Mr. and Mrs. Morton J. Kuff Mr. C. E. Kunkel
Dr. M. Kuppusami
Mricand' Mrs. Wi 0. Kurtz. dre Miss Martna Ladd
Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Ladd Mr. Jonn A. Laird
Mr. Jeffrey F. Lakshas
Mr. William R. Lame
Mr. James H. Landers, Jr. Mr. Robert R. Lane
Mr. Richard F. Langston
Mr. John Lansdale
Mr. K. F. Lauenstein
Mrs. J. W. Laughlin
Dr. and Mrs. Noel Lawson
Mr. Eugene Richard Lawson, Jr. Lt. Col. Jack A. Lecuyer
Mr. C. W. Ledebur
Miss Dorothy A. Lee
Mrs. Florence J. Lee
Mr. and Mrs. William Lenfeldt Ms. Jeanne Lemmer

<<<Page: 420>>>

Col. Eileen D. Lenart
Mr. Ricnard J. Leonard
Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard Mr. and Mrs. Elmore Leonard Mr. John H. Leslie
Mrs. Lawrence S. Lesser
Mr. Daniel W. Leubecker
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Levin, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E, Lewis Mr. and Mrs. Alfred B. Lichtenstein Mr. Robert G. Liebnardt
Mr. James E. Ligntfoot
Meer RAL Lae
Mr. Frank W. Lindenberger Mr. Jonn R. Linderman
Ms. R. Lindstrom
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List Dr. and Mrs. M. B. Listerud Mr. and Mrs. Robert Litowitz Dir. RavHe it loyd
Mr. and Mrs. H. M, Locker Mr. C. Henry Lockwood, II Mr. and Mrs. Walter M. Loeffler Mr. and Mrs. Jonn H. Loewy Mr. Everett J. Long
Mr. William A. Long
Mr. Walter H. Long, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Earl H. Look Col. and Mrs. Duarte A. Lopes Ms. Comfort Lord
Mr. P. H. Loughlin, III
Mr. Jonn B. Lounibos
Mr. Homer B. Louya, Jr.
Mr. H. M. Lovett
Mr. Bart W. Lovins
Mr. Charles L. Lowery
Mr. Remy H. Ludwig
Miss Edna Luginbuhl
Mr. La Rue R. Lutkins
Mrs. Mike Lyman
Mr. Maurice B. Lynch
Miss I, T. Lynn
Mr. Jim R, Lyons
Mrs. Margaret M. Lytle
Mrs. Alexander F. MacDonald Mrs. George L. Macha
Dr. James R. Machan
Ms. Marian S. MacIntyre
Mr. J. P. MacKellar
Mrs. Jd. A. MacNabb
. Ellen B. MacNeille
. William P. Macones . H. J. Maddock
. Rex A. Maddox
. Frank J. Madia, dr. . Ralph K. Madway
. Susan Makara
. Philippe L. Maleval . Col. and Mrs. William Malone . Michael Mangan, III . and Mrs. Paul Mannes . Robert Mannherz
. —. Manuel Manning
. Thomas Manno
. Allen E. Marans
. Paul Margus
. Allan W. Marknam
. Edward Marks
. John F. Mars
. Kenneth S. Marsh
. Tammy Marshall
. Robert Marston
. George Marston
. Alfred S. Martin
. and Mrs. John Cephas Martin . M. S. Martin
Miss Priscilla Mason
Mrs. Mrs.
Robert Matheny B. E. Matheson Elbert G. Mathews and Mrs. Wayne A. Mattox
Miss Julia A. Maxwell]
. and Mrs. George Maxwell . William B. May
. and Mrs. Joseph Mazza
. dames I. McAuliff
. Walter J. McBride
. Nancy M. McCabe
. Violet McCandlish
. Bruce McClintock
. and Mrs. Geoffrey McCool . John QO. McCracken
. Matthew McCullough
. Robert McFadden
. Joel U. McFarland
. Nancy J. McGinness
. E. B. McGlohn
. Ronald K. McGregor
. and Mrs. Kenneth C. McGuiness . and Mrs. Philip McHugh

<<<Page: 421>>>

Mr. John S. McInnes
Dr. and Mrs. W. E. McIntyre Dr. and Mrs. Douglas W. McKay Ms. Martna C. McKay
Mr. W. J. McNeil
Mr. R. V. McPherron
Mrs. Ruth R. McRae
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Mead Mr. Robert S. Melville
Mr. David L. Melvin
Mr. Hans M. Mende
Mr. Leon A. Mensing
Mrs. Rose Menz
Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, dr. Dr. and Mrs. William H. Meroney Mr. Ted S. Merrill
Mrs. Katnryn Mervenne
Mr. Dominic L. Meylor
Ms. Carla Michaels
Mr. Carroll L. Miller
Col. and Mrs. James Miller Mr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Miller Mr. and Mrs. James T. Miller Mr. H. Kent Mills
Mr. and Mrs. James T. Milne Mr. H. Minert
Mr. Glenn J. Mischel
Mr. and Mrs. R. Mishkin
Dr. and Mrs Michael H. Mishking Mr. and Mrs. Ford F. Miskell Mr. Walter W. Mitchell
Mr. Earle W. Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. George Mitchel] Mr. Carl H. Mohr
Mr. Leo Molinaro
Mr. Jules G. Mollere, III
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Montgomery
Mr. Richard H. Moore Mrs. E. Moore
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore Mr. Ricnard H. Moore Mrs. E. Moore
Mr. John H. Morava Mrs. Theda A. Moreno Mr. Harold Morgan
Mr. Shane Moriarity Mrs. John Morison
Mr. Hugh Morris
Ms. Firth Morris
Mr. Charles W. Morris
Ms. Rosanna Morris
Mrs. Blanche Morris Mrird.cGe Morris
Mr. Richard E. Morrison Mr. and Mrs. John M. Morss Dr. W. Dickson Moss, III Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Mountfort Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr. Mr Jerry L. Mungo
Dr. and Mrs. Jonn C. Munson Mr. Burnaby Munson
Mr. and Mrs. James Murphy
Mr. Jonn M. Murray
Miss Janet H. Murray
Mr Gary A. Murrel]
Ms. Betty Jane F. Myers
Mr. Raymond R. Myslivy
Dr. Mathew L. Manikas
Mr. and Mrs. Ward R. Neeley Mr. Robert H. Neff
Mr. John T. Nelson
Dr. Heidar Nemat
Mr. Andrew Kk. Ness
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce C. Netschert Mrs. M. E. Newcomb
Mr. Herbert L. Newmark
Mr. Henry Nickel
Dr. Orville F. Nielsen
Mr. and Mrs. Ricnard Niles
Mr. Allen Nixon
Mr. Donald Noehre
Mr. Carl Norden
Mr. Glenn Nordin
Mr. Giles Norrington
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. North Mr. Milton Nottingham, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Michael P. Novelli Mr. and Mrs. Peter Nunez
Mr. William P. O'Brien
Col. William F. O'Meara
Mr. Leonard Qberlander
Ms. Eileen O'Brien
Mr. Robert O'Brien
Mr. Robert Ochsner
Mr. Tom O'Connor, Jr.
Mr. Jonn Olnoft
Mrs. Alfred J. Olmo
Mr. Carl L. Olson
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Olyniec Mr. Richard Omohundro

<<<Page: 422>>>

Mr. Mrs. Dr. Dr. Dr.
and Mrs. Oliver Lloyd Onion
. Robert Orben eidiv= Ee OT RONMaY cm. Utes
Arthur Orloff
Robert Orton
and Mrs. E. G. Osborne
James C. Overholt
Joseph Owen
Henry S. Owens
G. K. Palys
Snirley Pan
and Mrs. Michael Papadopoulos
Cmdr. Everett Parke
Mr. Dr. Mr. Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Parker
and Mrs. J. R. Parsons
and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr.
. George H. Paul, Jr.
. Joan Paull
. Raymond Pearlstine
. Robert Peck
. Richard J. Peer
. Louis Peller
. and Mrs. Paul J. Peltier . Edmund Pendleton
. and Mrs. Thorn Pendleton . William C. Penick
. Jd. Roy Pennell, Jr.
. Clarence Pennington
. Walter H. Peoples
. d. Perruzzi
. dames P. Perry
. Dorothy F. Perry
. donn F. Perry
. Samantha A. Peterson
. Joseph J. Petrillo
S Gliiit sean t
. Jonn W. Pfeiffer
. Jackman Pfouts
. Josepn J. Phelan
. Alys —. Phreaner
. and Mrs. James S. Picken . Jacqueline Pierce
. Jonn B. Pitcnford
. Mary Bienusen Podmostko . Welch Pogue
. Jeffrey M. Poley
. and Mrs. Charlies L. Poor . Janice Popp
. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter
Dr. Reno R. Porter
Mr. John N. Postak
Mr. Louis Potkonski
Mrs. George Pulson
Miss Amy H. Pound
Dr. and Mrs. W. F. Pounds Mrs. Zella R. Powell
Mrs. Anne Pozzi
Mrs. Charles P. Price
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Price, dr. Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato Ms. Gloria Prochaska
Mrs. Dow Puckett
Mr. and Mrs. Jonn E. Purcell Mrs. Helen T. Purcell]
Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Purnell Dr. and Mrs. L. King Quan Miss Anne E. Quiggle
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Raddatz Mr. Charles A. Radosta
Mr. David A. Ransom
Mr. W. Ray
Mr. Charles Read, Jr.
Mr. William G. Rech
Ms. Nina Belle Redditt
Ms. Berenice A. Reed
Mr. Thomas M. Reed
Mr. Philip D. Reed, Jr.
Mr. Rollin M. Reeder
Mr. and Mrs. William Reese Mr. and Mrs. John C. Reid
Mr. Robert J. Reid
Mr. and Mrs. Albert P. Reidhead Dr. Michael Reilly
Mrs. Frank M. Reynolds
Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, dr. Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads Mr. George F. Rhodes
Mr. R. L. Rhodes, Jr.
Mr. Arthur H. Rice
Miss Annette Rich
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Richards Mr. Allen Richards
Mr. Robert E. Richardson
Ms. Melissa J. Richens
Miss B. A. Richmond
Mr. Daniel M. Ricker, Jr. Mrs. Richard Riddel]
Dr. Monira Rifaat
Mr. and Mrs. S. Donley Ritchey

<<<Page: 423>>>

Mrs. F. Ritter
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rixse, Jr. Ms. €. J. Roach
Mr. Stephen C. Robbins
Mr. and Mrs. Chalmers Roberts Miss Jean Roberts
Dr. George Robertson
Mrs. Diane Robertson
Radm. W. D. Robertson
Ms. Nancy J. Robertson
Mr. and Mrs.’ George Robeson, dr. Mr. Ray Robinson
Mr. Walter Robinson, dr.
Dr. Ava Rodgers
Ms. Priscilla Robers
Mrs. William Rogers
Mr. Irving Rose
Mr. Charles Rose
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond T. Rose Mr. John Rosenhamer
Mr. Kurt Rosinger
Mrs. Robert T. Ross
Mr. John Ross
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Ross Mr. George Ross
Dr. S. Rossello
Mr. and Mrs. L. Rothschild Mr. Arnold Rothstein
Mr. and Mrs. Josiah P. Rowe Mr. Miles Rubin
Dr. Philip Rubovits-Seitz Mr. Artnur Rule
Mr. Peter Russel]
Dr. and Mrs. Edward C. Ruth Mr. and Mrs. Jack B. Ryan Dr. Stephen K. Rymer
Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs
Mr. and Mrs. Kelsey Saint Mr. Lee Salsbery
Ms. Mickey Sanborn
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Sander Mr. and Mrs. Frank Sanders
Mr. and Mrs. Cameron Sanders, Jr.
Mr. A. Herbert Sandwen
Mr. Samuel Santangelo
Mr. Milton C. Sappe
Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff
Mr. David Saunders
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Sawick Mrs. Lillian Saxe
Mr. James P. Scannell i Mr. Charles Schaffer, Jr. Mr. William F. Schaper
Mr. Michael B. Schaub
Mr. Arnold Scheinman
Major and Mrs. Ronald Schena Miss Matilda Schlicht
Ms. Ann Schmidt
Miss Marguerite Schneeberger Dr. and Mrs. Hans Schneider Mrs. Agnes Schnurer
Mr. Anthony Schoendorf Radm. Joe Schoggen
Mr. and Mrs. J. Schroeder Mr. Edward Schuster
Dr. and Mrs. James Schwartz Mr. James J. Schwieger
Mr. Beldon D. Scott
Mrs. Jonn H. Scott
Mr. James J. Scott
Mr. M. B. Scott
Mr. robert M. Scott
Mr. William See
Mrs. Gerald H. Seifert
Mr. Ellwood Seifert, II
Mr. Richard Sekerka
Mr. Arnold Selk
Mrs. Catherine H. Sells
Mr. Sol Seltzer
Mr. Harold A. Serr
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Seubert Lt. Col. Kathleen Shafer Ms. Elaine Snafrin
Mr. James Snakman
Ms. Ada Shearman
Mrs. W. Mason Shehan
Mr. and Mrs. Gerard Shelton Mrs. Elsie T. Sneiton
Mr. Leslie M. Shepard
Mr. and Mrs. George Sherman Mrs. Eleanor Shifrin
Miss Katherine Shilling
Mr. Theodore J. Shively
Mr. Rufus Shivers
Mr. and Mrs. Abranam Snore Mr. George B. Shott
Mr. Jack J. Shrager
Dr. Stefan Shrier
Mr. Roy Snrobe
Ms. M. L. Sibley

<<<Page: 424>>>

. and Mrs. Irving H. Sieger . Russell L. Sill
> As. Es::Silver
Raymond Simon
. and Mrs. James Singletary . Sanford Slavin
. and Mrs. Leon Sloss
. and Mrs. Stevan B. Smith . and Mrs. Dean Smith
. Edward Smith
. W. Tilford Smith
ped ae. Smich
. James B. Smith
. Zachary Smith
22and Mrs. DeSmithand Mrs. Henry Smith, III . Howard F. Smothers
. Deboran P. Snow
. and Mrs. Edward Snowdon
= We P.. Snyder, If!
. Richard P. Solloway
. and Mrs. William Sorg
. and Mrs. Jonn J. Sottileand Mrs. R. C.. Soxman
. D. B. Spangler
. and Mrs. Donald A. Spear . Harry H. Spence
. Cmdr. Gladys M. Sperrle
. and Mrs. Scott C.. Spillers:..Sr. . G. Spivey
=e. Spozais
s HOLLIS. A. Stattiond. Sr, . Donna W. Stanford
. Ellwood Stang
. Gary Staples
. R. N. Stefan
. Jonn Stefano
Jonn Steib
. Lucy’ Stephens
20. CLINEOn Sterling, Lh . William Sterling, Jr.
. William QO. Stewart
. Donald A. Stewart
. and Mrs. Eugene Stichman . Jonn P. Stirn
. Robert A. Stone
peLeaKke SicOGK, .Urs
7 be DOW Strader, Jt.
. and Mrs. Ricnard Stratton . Warren J. Strudwick
Mr. Mr. Mr.
Mrs.
Mr. Mr. Ms. Mr. Mr.
Mrs.
Dr. Mr.
Mrs.
Mrs Mr. Mr. Dre
Mrs.
Mr. Mr. Dr Mr Mr.
Steven C. Suddaby Bernard Sullivan
James Sullivan
Sally Sullivan
Vincent M. Sullivan
Don E. Summers Jacqueline T. Sunderland John Sutch
and Mrs. Robert L. Sutherland
Caroline L. Sutter Russell Swanson
and Mrs Robert L. Swart, dr.
Phelps H. Swift
Paul C. Symmons Albert Szvetics
and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott H. L. Taylor
Richard R. Taylor
Jonn Taylor
Joseph M. Tessmer Charles W. Thacker Alan Thebert and Mrs. Frank A. Therrell
. Barry Dan Thomas
. and Mrs. Holcombe H. Thomas . and Mrs. Jeffrey C. Thomas . Allen D. Thomas
. W. Thompson
. Sylvia Marie Thompson
. and Mrs. Lawrence Thompson . James L, Thompson
. Margot K. Thomson
. Douglas S. Thorne . Thomas Thornton
. M. Throop
. Barbara L. Tierney
. L. E. Tierney
. Neil Tillotson
. Donald C. Tilton . Richard Timmons . H. Titchell
. and Mrs. Everett R. Tomlinson . William J. Tonkin
. Clarence QO. Tormoen » William C. Tost
. and Mrs. Wilbur L. Townsend . and Mrs. Anthony Tralla
. Austin E. Trask
. Eunice L. Trask . Timothy Traub

<<<Page: 425>>>

Mr. Ernest M. Travis
The Treuhaft Foundation
Mr. Donald 0. Tucker
Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker Mr. Robert L. Tull
Mrs. James N. Tulloh
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Turbeville, Jr.
Mr. David S. Turner
Mr. J. T. Turner
Mr. Samuel D. Turner
Mrs. William T. Tyne
Dr. Emily A. Ulmer
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Ulrich Mrs. George C. Underwood, II Ms. Helen Unger
Miss Eleanor Unzicker
Mr. Donald Usner
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Vallandingham Mr. Ray E. Vanalstine
Mrs. H. U. Vanhaeften
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Van Horn Ms. Caroline E. Van Mason
Mr. John A. Varela
Mr. Thomas J. Varga
Mrs. Franklin Veatch
Ms. Natalie D. Venneman
Ms. June A. Ventura
Mr. Albert L. Villaret
Ms. Alice B. Vincillione
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis C. Vogel Mr. William Loyd Vogt
Mr. William Wood Wadman, II! Mr. Paul F. Wagner
Mr. Paul M. Walison
Dr. Joseph Walker
Ms. Jean W. Wall
Mr, L. Wallace
Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Wallick Mr. John 0. Wallor
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Walske
Mrs. Claride W. Walters
Mrs. Harry Wanger
Miss Carolee J. Ward
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Wareheim Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D Warinsky Mr. William W. Warner
Mr. George E. Watson
Mr. Philip Watts
Mr. Robert P. Weaver
Ms. Anna Weaver
Sins
Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Dr. Dive Mr, Mr. Mr. Mr. Ms. Mr.
Vernon A. Webster
Peter M. Wege
Edward Weidlein
and Mrs. Emil P. Weilbacher, Jr. and Mrs. Edward Weinberg and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann H. T. Weinstein
and Mrs. Alan Weintraub Leonard W. Weis
J. R. Weiss
and Mrs. Jack W. Wells
and Mrs. Dawson Wells, Jr. Lucille Wendt
and Mrs. Irwin H. Wensink
Mrs. R. K. Wenzelgall
Mr. Mr.
QO. B. Werntz and Mrs. Richard J. Wertheimer
Capt. J. H. Wesson
James S. West
Miss Hilda Wexler
. and Mrs. William R. Wharton . Annette P. Whatley
Adelia C. Wheeler
. George Y. Wheeler, II
and Mrs. Richard H. Wherley
. Jonn P. Whiteley
. Catherine L. Whitsitt
. and Mrs. G. Allan Wnittaker . James H. Wiborg
. Richard J. Wicklund
. and Mrs. J. Burker Wilkinson . and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson, Jr. . and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox . Robert A. Williams
. Dorothy R. Williams
. and Mrs. James C. Williams . and Mrs. Kenneth R. H. Williams, Jr. . J. Reid Williamson . Gen. and Mrs. Ellis W. Williamson . Jane Wilner
. Hugh H. Wilson
. and Mrs. Kendall W. Wilson
Henry T. Wilson
Captain Lucille A. Wilson
Mr. Dr.
and Mrs. George B. Wilson, III and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.
Miss Harriet L. Wilt
Mr. Mr. Drs
Robert Windsor and Mrs. Jack Winter and Mrs. James R. Wirth

<<<Page: 426>>>

. Louise Woerner
. and Mrs. Payson Wolff
. Audrey J. Wolfinger
. and Mrs. Allan Y. Wolins
Robert M. Wolterstorff David L. Wood
Harry E. Wood William S. Woods
Jack A. Wright
Mary E. Wright
<7C.uH. Weight
. Judith C. Wright
. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz
. Frederick B. Wynn
. and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney . Paul M. Yoder
. Gregory B. Young
. and Mrs. Daniel K. Young, Jr. . Berton Zbar
and Mrs. Edwin Zimmerman . and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc . and Mrs. Barry Zorthian

<<<Page: 427>>>

LSL‘960‘22 G68°S/L‘L 9vE ‘0292 L90‘p6L‘€ £00*099*2 GOE‘P9b'2 885 °869°2 OL0°SLS‘L L€6‘808 2£9SL8 2L€‘6L0‘L 899‘ 6EE‘L 9/2‘vEL‘L SWLOL
€8h ‘858° bv0* Sez GEL “16S €18°899 Oze* ZS OLv*0SS OLL°6E9 vl “OVE LZ0°281 9€8 “£02 6LY* 292 626°092 €65 “09 AYOLSTH NVITYAWY
9LE ‘162 €6b‘6L 102 ‘82 G19°ZE 802°L2 OOL *S2 €SL*L2 £5902 6/6‘2L 921 “vl 02661 292 ‘0 200° EE Luv 40
AYA TWS Yudaus
SQ61 1eaX ULTUOSYILUG OF SIONS A
or xipuoddy
LZE‘O91 6 9Lb‘9ES 8L2‘p8l ‘lL Obl‘ LBE‘L Obb‘860‘L 22L‘900‘L €2b‘EL0°L O8b* 9S ~ bly‘ 262 09L°L2€ 250‘ 28€ ELL‘ LbS L8S° LLL ONIGIING
JIWdS GNY YIV
189°169°S BE Eve L02°909 €25 ‘828 OL6°LEL 252 °299 €90‘bLZ 0L9°9Eb O91 ‘6E2 G/6°961 62L°9E2 L62°28€ €96‘90b ONIG WING
AYOLSTH TWUnVN
680‘8t0‘L LSL‘9b0‘L SWLOL 509° b9 568 ‘9 daquiazdas 851 “SLL L26‘ Lvl ysnbny 89¢‘L2L 940° LOL Aine LOZ‘OLL 82b ‘82k aunp v60‘80L ECE IEE AeW 6Sb‘L2l O21 ‘22 [ Lady GvZ ‘08 6L€°99 your LLE ‘8b O€6 EE Auenaga4 EL8 ‘Eb 290°62 GB6L ‘Asenuer 86€ ‘cL 058‘Sb Jaquiaa( €86 ‘LZ 060‘€S AaqwaAON 8Ev ‘98 €69°SL p86L 4940390 ONIGTING ONIGTING HINOW SAIULSNGNI NOILALILSNI

<<<Page: 428>>>

“SZOTTSTA QOO‘OOG‘E JO J9VeUTISO GEGT azeoA TRoOStTyZ eyy euTWI972anN OF pasn sem YyotymM wa sds HutTdues oTqettar vw podoToeaap sey ooy ary ‘AQTNOTIFTP STYQ SWOOADAO OG “SOTAISTIERS XOPCSTA JOVKD UTeIGCO oF VTqQtSsodiit
qt soyeu ‘SoouRzQUSe UeTAZSZpod pue AeTNOTYBA TeRAZAVS SyT pue SyTqTyXs TOONyno pue JoopuTt Sqr YATM ‘yxAeq BYR FO a9anQeu AAVDA JUL “*GR6T APPA Teosty ut WUVd TWOTSOTOOZ IVNOILVN 844 09 SZOFTSTA OOO'OOG’E payeWTysSe ue 91e UOTRIPT =nqge} 9saoge oyy UT paqyoasTjorA JON / “UOTANATAISUT UeTUOSYATUS 24} OF SAOJTSTA Tenptatput Fo Aequnu Tenqjzoe 9yR ueyR AYHTY St pue ‘SqzuNOD AORTSTA wunasnu Jo ojeberzbbe ay squesaadeaz ‘azozaxayA ‘TeqQoO} pueszb oy, ‘*SsoaultTz TerVADS psayzuNnod ore AdyQ ‘sdAep aaTANdoesuOD Ter9AaS uO SuMasSnuU SNOoTAePA OF OH AO ‘AXeABUTAT ATeyy UO UMSeSNU 9UO UPY 2AOWU ApnTOUT SZORTSTA AUeW BOUTS ‘“‘WNHOSNU 7eYQ OF
Sax nes SIOJISTA TeNPTATpUT JO Aoqunu 9YyA ZOSeTFOA umasnu owe ZOT sTeqjosL, :ALON 569 OF ee eae cated GvS‘vEL*L 199‘€b ebb 21 = 06" i2 0G0°6S0l —v89 bz GOL ‘ELE SWLOL 62Z‘LLL 80L SE L869 O2L ‘1 E£EL9 gg¢‘Z 662 °S2 saquiaydas Z20€*ZLL 0S2‘p £926 191 *22l 6b8‘8 ELL‘ 2E " ysnBny v6L‘ 281 060 ‘2 851 ‘6 OSb‘LEL L8b‘6 602‘ 0€ Aine PLL ‘Zl 990‘€ Sb8 ‘OL y98‘2 GLS‘2LL Z£6 ‘6 2bb ‘Oe aune SbS‘L9L 815°S £16°S L60‘2 Ebb ‘SOL L6L ‘OL 92° ze Avy Lve‘6Ll 6Lr‘9 L0S‘8 6LS‘2 ZLL8‘SLL £9‘6 LSp‘9e [pady sar‘ Obl GEL ‘2 940‘OL 28 ‘2 2G¢ ‘LL 20L‘6 LL8 ‘Se youely L$2‘901 SSL‘€ p9e6 y99°€ 616 ‘2b G95‘8 L86ZLE Aavnaga4 GEL*E8 908*2 £86‘9 8/8‘ | 159‘8E 0656 L28°e2 G86 ‘Aaenure 269° ZL L8s‘€ 990‘6 Lv9‘L 609‘ 29 Lov‘LL peeve saquiarad G6L ‘SUL 289°€ 6bl “OL 6£0‘2 LL8‘ 8 LLL ‘91 Lee ‘sz AOqMIAOH 6S¢‘ESl 88l‘2 LZ‘OL S18 L16°26 20€ ‘vl ofs‘Le 861 4G0390 SWLOL LUy WNasn WNASNW AYATWO ANI TW ANI TAVD ~HINON
NVOTYSV LLIMGH COOHNOGHDIIN NYOHHSYIH YOINNAY LIVYLYOd
Jo wnasnu -¥4d009 VILSOOWNY B LY

<<<Page: 429>>>

iL) +e
owes bao peTTED
je Wisasas os

<<<Page: 430>>>



<<<Page: 431>>>



<<<Page: 432>>>



<<<Page: 433>>>



<<<Page: 434>>>

