<<<Page: 1>>>

new baal pw
Me ork
dod =
— a * a t
I i j ! } } } j } } ) | } ) = } } } } I } J } i } } } } ) j
val 2 4 ; “i a wa oa 4 of 4 “a “3, ¢
] j be <4 ” veal _ q “\ 4 | aa os BS 33 o 7}

<<<Page: 2>>>

. y ' : yews e, w . . edt Ne " F % 5 Dies 2S .@ < 7s pote \

<<<Page: 3>>>

INSTITUTIO Ssaiyuvdd INSTITUTIC INSTITUTIC
NVINOSHLINS SaIuVvya NVINOSHLINS S3IYNWY
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3I¥vVuaii LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN .
saiuvual INSTITUTION
Sadluvugi
VINOSHLINS S3tuvVuaIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
Salyuvudii INSTITUTION INSTITUTION
NVINOSHLINS S3I1YVUdtIT LIBRARIES
IWINOSHLINS S31uVvy LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI
S3alyvyugi
Satuvugit_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31uYyvuaIt
NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYdgit NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYUGITLIBRARIES
oO wo
= pa)
me =
z ms
J INSTITUTION NOI 2G 45 Zz \ =
So WSs Na = zZNQY 8
[?p) ra
s’saluvyai INSTITUTION
S Saiavugit
Yyy,
w” Ww [og <x (ne a4a LIBRA = | aoe S) o =) > = es) i — z wn = — x=. ep) fe) = > =
SaIYVNSIT. LIBRAI
LILSNI eC Sy ARIES

<<<Page: 4>>>

saluvud INSTITUTI INSTITUTIL saiuvua INSTITUT! SaIYVUE INSTITUTI
Zi ly NVINOSHLINS S31uv¥d
NOSHLINS S31YVYEIT_ LIBRARIES NOILNLILSNI Saluvudiq_LIBRARI n = Kea = (7) = n Zz ee = < x < = = = Ppiee \S = Z WN \ z a ra S yf fg = WS = gE QX S A § 5 GY 2 THSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHIINS S3IMVYSIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLIL = rie = ae uw az w Fe w g @ WX = g er = = ao =— AX oa — x. Wb ttf = o c < ER NS < a LY 4 a < S oc S CQ ce S pedy S oe an S 5 a 5 =o “We 3 = = z a ra ewe ra at ze 4 NOSHLIWS [S31YVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS | S31YVYSIT_LIBRAR’ ° = ° a fe) = ° = AN = w Uy w = ie] ° ra @ \N = 2 5 1p, 2 Es x Iw = 7 WE : © ML E 2 WE : S WS = —_ = . a ier _ = — . \ r — SNS 2 a ere e m Y m YW Gg m oNS = wo = w = n” heate = w BSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS, Satuvaaia LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLIL 8 P * IX ae = : <x = < = < = = — _— = —_ — = — Yr : = \, = z 4 z = z \, ea 4) 8 NAG 8 = 5 : a Sa > oo YS fo) ooo es (es) =i (2) ae YN SN (2) VY Me E Vv Z, i Zz a z E Sw 27 ” = >" = >" = > = os >" a oe S a Fa 2) 2 ” Zz
NOSHLINS S3I¥YVYSI1T LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS sa1uvugi LIBRARI
i) = 7) = ” S no =
: = a wl a w a w a ce = ne oa & A WG = =
r ft pcs a a ae =< a NS p= = WY E = a. = = 5 Q's 5 aS = ° = 3 = ° SN = )
— z a 2 =i 2 7 > ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLIL Ply = a ° ies] = «oO 2)
a = i= ee) = tf Seg oD = 5 e = E : a4 = E
Ly fa eX cs = a Wiy ae E Mj a z re 2 iM a / a 2 = a) . = wo — 2) = INOSHLINS SAINVYEIT_LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION , NOILOLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS Sa1NVUdIT_LIBRAR = S Ss = ZS. = Z SF =| ew SS a S . SU re ae = N = = Sees = > 4 Ve Ss > = = 2 pee a 2 a 2 a
ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILN111
= (77) = Tp) = 72) — ” z iT = ot z 2 77) Ks uw ul : 2” a a = 3 AS = = Se es z : : eWK : 2 2G If 2 : S te cs *< YQ te c x “iy S Pe 5 za 5 = 5 a “@ 3 z Za a z Vem z =I 2 a LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS _S3!IYVYGIT_ LIBRAR 5 BS = tees = oie S a = Ty = oO _ LY iss] —_ jee] S ies] : : 5 by: : = Nya 5 : e > & It)? = a Se 2 = 2 = YG fi > = 2 NYS c = n” = aor 7? Ww Y S\N (2) on Zz m z HA rad a AN ra us — Yn cand a oe ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHUWS Saluvugi7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLIJ Zale on” ; "e Zz‘. <x + — xt = J <x = =< : = z X 5 G4j.2z = Ws = = z X = 2 \n i Gi 2 YY, 2 = e Ny : na “a 8S SS n Wie py ” Yn ys, a B an * QE wn <= x ESN (eo) YG Cf 7! =< 2) Se id = ae AK AY oO EN 2,°° 4 E 2 = = E WY’ 2. AS 5 2 ae aie ze INOSHLINS S31uvualy SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ pod AV a aI T_LIBRAR = EN ally ta ig Kastan = oa We = FAM) = = SMR a c

<<<Page: 5>>>



<<<Page: 6>>>

Smithsonian Year 1989 Supplement
Chronology and Appendixes
Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

Smithsonian Year 1989 Supplement
Chronology and Appendixes
Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 9>>>

en ey it
it tae Peas

<<<Page: 10>>>

Contents
Chronology
Appendix 1.
Appendix 2.
Appendix 3.
Appendix 4.
Appendix 5.
Appendix 6.
Appendix 7.
Appendix 8.
Note. The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual appendixes is not alphabetical but
Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards, Commissions, September 30, 1989
Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in Fiscal Year 1989
Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1989
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1989
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1989
The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1989
Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1989
Contnbuting Members of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1989
rather follows the organization of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.
The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically reproduced from typescmpt provided by the
bureaus and the offices.

<<<Page: 11>>>

Smithsonian Insttution
Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Committee, and the Secretary Office of the Secretary Office of the Under Secretary Office of the Inspector General Office of the General Counsel Office of the Treasurer Research International Center Joseph Henry Papers National Zoological Park Office of American Studies Office of Fellowships and Grants Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Smithsonian Environmental Research Center Smithsonian Institution Archives Smithsonian Institution Libranes Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Museums Anacosua Museum Archives of American Art Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Conservation Analytical Laboratory Cooper-Hewitt Museum Freer Gallery of Art Hirshhorm Museum and Sculpture Garden National Air and Space Museum National Museum of African Art National Museum of Amencan Art National Museum of American History
National Museum of Natural History/National Museum
of Man
National Portrait Gallery
Office of Exhibits Central
Office of Horticulture
Office of Museum Programs
Office of the Registrar
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Public Service National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive Educational Technologies National Science Resources Center Office of Elementary and Secondary Education Office of Folklife Programs Office of Interdisciplinary Studies Office of Public Affairs Office of Telecommunications Smithsonian Institution Press Smithsonian Internship Council Smithsonian Magazine “Smithsonian World” University of the Air Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center External Affairs Office of Membership and Development Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates Smithsonian National Associate Program Smithsonian Resident Associate Program Office of Special Events Office of Congressional Liaison Institutional Initiatives Administration Administrative and Support Activities Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Under Separate Boards of Trustees John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts National Gallery of An Reading Is Fundamental Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

<<<Page: 12>>>

Smithsonian Year 1989 Chronology
The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events and milestones during the fiscal year 1988-89.
October
Outreach: The Office of Public Affairs produced a panel exhibit for the National Indian Education Association conference in Tulsa, Oklahoma. This was the Institution’s first participation in this national conference and included a
booth and presentation by Secretary Adams and other Smithsonian staff as part of the program.
October
Visitor: Nigerian artist Sokari Douglas Camp spent three weeks at the museum (into November) overseeing the installation of the exhibition "Echoes of the Kalabari: Sculpture by Sokari Douglas Camp."
October
Federal Appropriations: The Institution established a no-year federal account in the fiscal year 1989 budget to facilitate the development and acquisition of major scientific instrumentation. Initial funds will go to the development of
the Astrophysical Observatory’s submillimeter telescope and the conversion of the multiple-mirror telescope.
October
Publication: Smithsonian Institution Equal Opportunity Report, October 1988 was published by the Office of Equal Opportunity as the first in a series of semiannual reports to the congressional appropriations committees.
October
Publication: Crossroads of Continents, by William Fitzhugh and Aron Crowell, based on the Smithsonian exhibition of the same name, was published. The book became the best-selling title of fiscal year 1988-89 for Smithsonian Institution Press’ University Press Division.
October Publication: Best Addresses, by James Goode, was published. This book
garnered much critical praise and became the first Smithsonian Institution Press book to appear on the Washington Post best-seller list.

<<<Page: 13>>>

October
Seminar: The Office of Interdiscipinary Studies presented a seminar called "Metascience, Ethoscience--What Is Science Anyway?" as part of its "Ways of Knowing" series of interdisciplinary discussions for staff and fellows.
October
New Design: A new landscape plan with furnishings was developed for the north front of the Smithsonian Institution "Castle" Building by the Office of Horticulture.
October
Album Release: Smithsonian/Folkways completed its first album, "Folkways: The Original Vision.". The album includes original recordings by Woody Guthrie and Leadbelly from the Columbia Records album "Folkways: A Vision Shared," plus other selections.
October 1
Milestone: The Office of Public Affairs launched its comprehensive Native American Media Outreach Program with the arrival of an American Indian intern, supported by the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program. The program is designed to carry information both to and from American Indian communities.
October 1
High School Project: A pilot project, "African Art for High School Students," brought together dynamic students from throughout the city for instruction in the arts and culture of Africa. The ten-week project was funded by a grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.
October 3
Milestone: A ribbon-cutting ceremony marked the official dedication of the Smithsonian’s first child care center, in which thirty-five children between the ages of two and five were enrolled. A scholarship pool was established to assist low-income parents.
October 4-5
Colloquium: The Smithsonian’s Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, together with the General Foods Fund and Winrock International, sponsored a colloquium ttled "Completing the Food Chain: Strategies for Combating Hunger and Malnutrition." The event was held in conjunction with the awarding of the World Food Prize.
October 7 Exhibition: "On the Air: Pioneers of American Broadcasting,” a major exhibition
reflecting the history of early radio and television through portraiture, opened at the National Portrait Galery.

<<<Page: 14>>>

October 8
Exhibition: The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s first acquisition of Japanese art, a spectacular late eighteenthto early nineteenth-century ceremonial palanquin, was placed on public display, along with the gallery’s first acquisition of Japanese paintings, a pair of seventeenth-century six-panel screens.
October 13
Exhibition: "Portraits of the American Law," the first exhibition of the history of the American poltical system through portraits, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
October 14-29
International Tour: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum conducted an architectural study tour to historic and contemporary landmarks in Hungary, Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Germany, providing an in-depth survey of Central European contributions in architecture and design.
October 18
Acquisition: The Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia, received three male and three female black-footed ferrets. The center was one of two picked by the Wyoming Game and Fish Department to receive the nearly extinct ferrets for the purpose of starting a breeding program.
October 24
Appointment: After a wide-ranging search, Dr. Milo C. Beach was named director of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art. Dr. Beach, a distinguished scholar of the painting of India, was acting director of both
museums for a year prior to the appointment. He served as assistant director of the Sackler Gallery from 1984 to 1987.
October 25
Special Project: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries introduced automated circulation with borrowers’ cards and bar-coded books. The African Art Branch was the first to go on line. The automated circulation data base improves accountability and security and provides accurate data about the use of the Libraries’ collections.
October 27 Exhibition: "To Color America: Portraits by Winold Reiss," a major exhibition of
images of African Americans and American Incians, as well as some Asians and Mexicans, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

<<<Page: 15>>>

October 28
Symposium: "Alberto Giacometti: An International Symposium," at which four leading American and European scholars explored aspects of the renowned Swiss sculptor’s life and work, was held at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The symposium was cosponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.
October 31
Reintroduction: Fifteen endangered golden lion tamarins left the National Zoo for reintroduction into Brazil. This was the fourth release since 1984. To date, sixty-one tamarins have been returned to the wild.
October 31
Milestone: The New York offices of the Archives of American Art moved to the newly constructed Equitable Center complex at 1285 Avenue of the Americas. In celebration of the move, an opening preview of the new spaces was held, along with an exhibition of original Archives material related to the 1913 Armory
Show.
October 31
Milestone: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum officially welcomed newly appointed director Dianne H. Pilgrim. Mrs. Pilgrim was formerly chairman of the Department of Decorative Arts at the Brooklyn Museum in New York.
November
Acquisition: The Walt Disney Company donated six of the earliest drawings of Mickey Mouse to the National Museum of American History. The drawings are from the first completely synchronized sound cartoon, "Steamboat Willie,” first shown
in 1928.
November
Milestone: The James Smithson Society launched a new program, the Secretary’s Circle, to assist with membership recruitment nationwide. This special volunteer group of members of the Society and of the National Board of Smithsonian Associates consists of forty-eight representatives throughout the United States.
November
Appointment: Joseph Carper was appointed director of the Smithsonian National Associate Program.
November Microfilming Project: Filming started for "Books of the Fairs," with a selection
of some two thousand books from the collections of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries. The microfilmed set will be accessible to scholars worldwide.

<<<Page: 16>>>

November
Research: An Institute for Theoretical Atomic and Molecular Physics was established at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Massachusetts, under a grant from the National Science Foundation.
November
Agreement: The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service entered into an agreement with the USSR Ministry of Culture for the development, organization, and travel of "Moscow: Treasures and Traditions," an exhibition of two hundred objects produced by artisans and craftsmen from the sixteenth to early twentieth centuries. It will be on view in the United States beginning in June 1990.
November 1
Premiere: Discovery Theater’s original production of "Rosa Parks: Speaking Out" made its debut. The show explored the life of a black woman who helped spark the civil rights movement in the United States in the 1960s. The production was also noteworthy for its incorporation of American Sign Language. Fiscal year 1989 represented the highest registration ever achieved by Discovery Theater.
November 2
Lecture: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries presented a public lecture titled "E pluribus unum. Do the Washington Metropolitan Area Universities Need A Super-Library?" Paul Vassallo, executive director of the Washington Research Library Consortium, was the speaker.
November 3
Special Event: A black tie dinner was held in the New York City Equitable Center complex to honor Archives of American Art Trustee Benjamin D. Holloway, who was responsible for securing office space for the Archives in this new complex.
Proceeds from the evening benefited the Archives’ New York Regional Center.
November 14
Exhibition and Publication: Co-organized by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, "Courts and Colonies: The Wiliam and Mary Style in Holland, England and America" opened in New York under the gracious patronage of Her Royal Highness Princess Margriet of the Netherlands. The show celebrated the 300th anniversary of the Glorious Revolution. Assembled by an international team of curators, it included more than 250 works of art,
architectural prints, drawings, furniture, ceramics, and silver from the late
seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries.
November 14
Meeting: Andrei Sakharov, renowned Soviet dissident, member of the Presidium of the USSR Academy of Sciences, and a deputy to the USSR Congress of People’s Deputies, spoke at a meeting organized by the Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Sakharov died December 14, 1989.

<<<Page: 17>>>

November 19-23
Special Event: One hundred and eighty Smithsonian Contributing Members participated in a weekend program during which they visited selected exhibits with museum directors and curators. A similar program was held May 3-7.
November 20
Exhibition: "A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the Book" showed 160 works from the Henri Vever collection of Persian and Indian paintings and manuscripts at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. This was the first public display since its purchase
in 1986.
December
Kudos: Giacometti, by Valerie Fletcher, which is based on a Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden exhibition, was called "the most elegant art book of the year" by National Public Radio.
December
Exhibition: The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program’s first exhibition of its commissioned art, "RAP Commission Art," opened in the Escalator Galery of the S. Dillon Ripley Center. The exhibition celebrated special Smithsonian and citywide events. It featured sixteen lithographs, serigraphs, and posters by many well-
known artists, including Alexander Calder, Gene Davis, Nancy Graves, Sam Gilliam, Larry Rivers, Robert Indiana, Richard Haas, and Willem De Looper.
December
Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received two grants from the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund. One grant supports publication of the Libraries lecture, "Alchemical Death and Resurrection: Alchemy in the Age of Newton," by Professor B. J. T. Dobbs of Northwestern University. The second grant supports the publication of Books of the Fairs, a comprehensive reference guide, to a microfilm set of some two thousand books on international expositions.
December
Acquisition: The Henry and Ludmila Shapiro Collection of Soviet Porcelains, comprising more than 250 examples of tablewares and figural porcelains from the time of the Russian Revolution to the present, was purchased with assistance from the Regents’ Collections Acquisitions Fund and matched by funds raised by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s Decorative Arts Association.
December Special Events: The Anacostia Museum sponsored a month-long series of programs
celebrating Kwanzaa, the African American holiday based on African harvest celebrations.

<<<Page: 18>>>

December
Dedication: A tree was planted in front of the Arts and Industries Building and dedicated in memory of Joseph Coudon VII, special assistant to the secretary of the Smithsonian.
December
Exhibition: The Smithsonian held its twelfth annual "Trees of Christmas" exhibition.
December 2
Exhibition and Symposium: "Perpetual Motif: The Art of Man Ray" opened at the National Museum of American Art. This major retrospective of the works of one of the founding fathers of modernism, a pioneer of both dada and surrealism,
included 268 paintings, works on paper, photographs, films, and objects. In an all-day symposium, an international panel of scholars, artists, and critics
discussed the importance of these avant-garde movements.
December 5
Endangered Species: Survey findings were released by the Center for Plant Conservation indicating that more than 250 species of America’s plants may become extinct in the next one to five years. The announcement was made at a news conference at the Smithsonian, which conducted the first such survey in 1973.
December 12
Designation: In a small ceremony, the 280-seat Hirshhorn auditorium was named the Marion and Gustave Ring Auditorium, in acknowlegement of a recent significant donation of art from the collection of this late Washington, D.C., couple.
December 14
Exhibition: "Gerhard Richter," a major retrospective honoring one of Europe’s leading avant-garde artists, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in its only East Coast showing. The exhibition was co-organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago.
December 17
Special Event: As a special winter holiday event, Camille Saint-Saens’ "Carnival
of Animals" was performed in the National Zoo’s Education Building Auditorium by pianists Ann Joseph and Natalie Ross.
December 21
Acquisition: The USSR donated an eight-foot model of a Proton launch vehicle to
the National Air and Space Museum. The Proton rocket has launched all the Soviet space stations and planetary probes since 1965.

<<<Page: 19>>>

January
Renovation: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries completed the last stages of its renovation project begun in 1986.
January
New Project: The Smithsonian Institution Press launched a twelve-volume continuity series, The Smithsonian Guides to Historic America, which was developed in association with an outside publisher and the National Museum of American History. It is the first multivolume project undertaken by Smithsonian Books, the direct mail arm of the Smithsonian Institution Press.
January
Nomination: "“Hoagy Carmichael," an album released by the Recordings Division of the Smithsonian Institution Press, received two Grammy nominations.
January
Publication: The three-volume study The Great Tzotzil Dictionary of Santo Domingo Zinacantan, with Grammatical Analysis and Historical Commentary, by Robert M. Laughlin with John B. Haviland, was published in Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology, a federally funded monograph series.
January
Record Release: "American Musical Theater," a boxed set of recordings that chronicles the development of this distinctively American art form, was released by Smithsonian Institution Press and received broad national attention.
January
Radio Project: Joining with the Native American Public Broadcasting Consortium, the Office of Telecommunications received a planning grant from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to begin work on a thirteen-part series for the Columbus Quincentenary to explore this event from the Native American perspective.
January
Special Event: The secretary hosted a dinner at the National Portrait Gallery to celebrate the inauguration of the Smithsonian Quincentenary Program.
January Special Event: The secretary and the Smithsonian Cultural Education Committee
hosted a lecture, performance, and reception at the National Museum of Natural History to celebrate the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

<<<Page: 20>>>

January
Planning: The Board of Regents approved the Five Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years 1990-1994. The Prospectus calls for several programs: increased emphasis on identifying and pursuing construction and facilities repair priorities in future years, further attention to selected programmatic needs in areas such as scientific instrumentation and other technical forms of support, and the successful organization and conduct of events surrounding the forthcoming Columbus Quincentenary commemorations.
January
Special Event: The Presidential Inaugural Ball and the Vice-President’s pre-inaugural reception were held at the National Air and Space Museum and the National Museum of American History, respectively. The Office of Protection Services, in close cooperation with the Secret Service, provided protection
services for both events.
January
Community Training: In its ongoing commitment to work with museum educators and staff in the planning and collaboration of exhibition-related community programs,
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service conducted workshops in Florida, Mississippi, Michigan, and Washington, D.C., in conjunction with the exhibitions "Field to Factory: Afro-American Migrations, 1915-1940"; "Frank Lloyd Wright: Preserving an Architectural Heritage"; and "Inside Active Volcanoes:
Kilauea and Mount St. Helens."
January
Publication: Contemporary Indian Tradition: Voices on Culture, Nature, and the Challenge of Change was published by Smithsonian Institution Press in the United States and by Oxford University Press in India. The book is based on the 1985 Festival of India symposium, "The Canvas of Culture: Rediscovery of the Past As Adaptation for the Future."
January 4
Milestone: At approximately 3:15 p.m., the majestic linden tree that dominated the Enid A. Haupt Garden behind the Smithsonian Castle Building fell, a victim of old age and high winds.
January 5
Construction: A three-year construction and renovation project began at the Freer Gallery of Art to expand conservation and collections storage space and allow passage between the Freer and the Sackler Galleries by connecting underground gallery space.
January 10 Special Event: The Office of Quincentenary Programs and the Office of the
Secretary jointly hosted a dinner for the Ibero-American cultural attaches to inaugurate the Smithsonian’s collaboration with Ibero-American embassies.

<<<Page: 21>>>

January 11
Award: The ninth Charles Lang Freer Medal was awarded to Alexander Coburn Soper
Ill of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University. Dr. Soper is an educator, writer, and editor widely recognized for his prolific contributions to the field of Asian art history.
January 15
Exhibition: "Inspiration, 1961-1988," featuring the works of local artists, opened at the Anacostia Museum. The exhibition included a variety of films and videos on African American art and artists.
January 16
Event: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service sponsored the third Smithsonian observance of the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Jack Tchen, director of the Asian Pacific Studies Center, Queens College, and cofounder of the New York Chinatown History Project was the featured speaker.
January 24
Exhibition and Publication: "American Drawings from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum: Training the Hand and Eye" began its national tour in New York. The exhibition presents seventy-five drawings, watercolors, and ou sketches dating from the
1830s to the 1930s. Accompanied by a catalogue of the same title, the exhibition will travel under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Service through the fall of 1990.
January 27
Appointment: Rep. Jamie L. Whitten (D-Miss.) was appointed a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents.
January 30
Press Conference: Secretary Adams announced a television series focusing on Latin American culture, which will be the centerpiece of the Institution’s
Columbus Quincentenary program. Mexican author Carlos Fuentes will write and narrate the programs. The press conference was organized by the Office of Public Affairs.
February Space Flight: A high-resolution camera proposed by a team of Smithsonian scientists and engineers was selected as one of three focal-plane instruments for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility now scheduled for launch in the mid-1990s.

<<<Page: 22>>>

February
Service: An international astronomical data base operated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, with support from the National Science Foundation and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, became operational. The data base is for North American users.
February
Reorganization: The new director of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, Anna Cohn, introduced a staff reorganization based on teams for exhibition organization, interpretation, production, and registration.
Additional support is provided by SITES service groups: publications, public relations, scheduling, and administration.
February
Collection: The collection of the late John M. and Lucy McLuckie of Coal City, Ulinois, of more than 2,500 Paleozoic Era specimens of coal-swamp flora and fauna was donated to the National Museum of Natural History by the McLuckie children. Most of the material is of exceptional quality and spectacular size, including several one-of-a-kind and rare imprints.
February
Publication: History of Indian-White Relations, volume 4 in the National Museum of Natural History’s encyclopedic Handbook of North American Indians, was published. The book traces the history of Indian and white relations in North America from Colonial days to the present and includes political, military, economic, and religious issues.
February
Broadcast: Through the auspices of the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies,
Radio America aired an eight-part series of programs based on the March 1988 symposium "Afro-Americans and the Evolution of a Living Constitution." The program was distributed to more than three hundred radio stations nationwide and won an award from the Bicentennial Leadership Project.
February
Radio: Radio commercials were produced by the Office of Public Affairs and placed on two Washington, D.C., radio stations with predominantly African American audiences. The ads offered information on the Smithsonian and its Black History Month activities and, in cooperation with the Metropolitan Transit Authority, a free subway farecard to visit the Smithsonian.

<<<Page: 23>>>

February 1
Lecture Series: Daniel Buren, the French conceptual artist, discussed his newly completed Hirshhorn WORKS project and other commissions in the inaugural talk in a new "Focus" series. Providing a monthly forum for artists and curators
involved with Hirshhorn exhibitions, the "Focus" series later featured artists
Ericka Beckman, Buster Simpson, Mel Chin, Houston Conwill, Keith Sonnier, Director James T. Demetrion, and Ned Rifkin, chief curator for exhibitions.
February 3
Milestone: The development of a collaborative program in conservation studies involving Japanese and U.S. scientists was announced by the Smithsonian and the Japanese Agency for Cultural Affairs.
February 10
Visit: Members of the Donetsk State Opera and Ballet Theater visited the National Air and Space Museum. Secretary Adams hosted a reception for the troupe in the Castle building.
February 16
Concert: An evening of Persian music on the tar and setar by Dariush Dolat-shahi was the first event in a free, public two-month celebration of Persian art and culture cosponsored by the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Foundation for Iranian Studies. Also included in the celebration were calligraphy and
illumination workshops, lectures, and an evening of reading from the tenth-
century Persian epic poem, the Shahnama.
February 17
Exhibition: "The Art of Paul Manship" opened at the National Museum of American Art. The exhibition was illuminated by a book on Manship by National Museum of American Art curator Harry Rand. The exhibition will tour to seven locations over the next three years, concluding at the Metropolitan Museum in New York.
February 19
Black History Month: As part of a series of public programs at the National Museum of American Art, the Howard University Jazz Ensemble presented a concert that was followed by a lecture on the influence of jazz on twentieth-century art.
The lecture was given by Gwen Everett of the museum staff. Later in the month, E. Ethelbert Miller, director of the Afro-American Resource Center at Howard University, gave a reading of his poems, and Dr. Regenia A. Perry, professor of
art history at Virginia Commonwealth University, lectured on masterworks by Afro-American artists in the museum collection.

<<<Page: 24>>>

February 20
Workshop: A field workshop on the “Reconstruction of Precolumbian Subsistence in the Humid American Tropics" for Latin American archaeologists was held at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute from February 20 through April 2. The seminar was coordinated by institute archaeologist Richard Cooke. Participants came from Panama, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Venezuela.
February 21-24
Conference: The Office of Protection Services hosted the twelfth Annual National Conference on Museum Security. The conference identified many shared concerns and problems in the area of museum security and served as a forum for participants to share solutions to those problems.
February 24
Benefit: The preview reception for USArt, an annual San Francisco exhibition and sale of eighteenthto twentieth-century American art, benefited the West Coast Regional Center of the Archives of American Art.
March
Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received funds awarded by the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates to support two projects: conservation of a fifteen-volume set of nineteenth-century Indian textile samples now in the collections of the Cooper-Hewitt Branch and assistance with the publication of an illustrated lecture, "Alchemical Death and Resurrection: Alchemy in the Age of Newton," by Professor B. J. T. Dobbs of Northwestern University.
March
Restoration: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Book Conservation Laboratory began restoring James Smithson’s personal library that consists of about one hundred surviving books of the Institution’s founder.
March
Symposium: "The World of Samuel Beckett" was explored in a three-day symposium cosponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program, the Forum of Psychiatry and the Humanities, the Washington School of Psychiatry, the Forum for the Psychoanalytic Study of Film, and the Visual Press, University of Maryland. Highlights of the symposium were the video premieres of "Waiting For Godot" and "Krapp’s Last Tape," which was recently performed in Paris with the involvement and imprimatur of Beckett himself.

<<<Page: 25>>>

March
Glasnost: The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program opened the Glasnost Film Festival series, which featured the American premiere of new Soviet documentaries. The series was introduced by Leonid Gurevich, chairman, Documentary Film Section, USSR Union of Cinematographers. Gurevich led a delegation of Soviet filmmakers and directors to the premiere evening.
March
Publication: Jeremy B. C. Jackson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute marine scientist, and F. K. McKinney published the book Brozoan Evolution, which presents complete descriptions of major patterns of evolution of bryozoan colony forms. The book contains much new data on the implications of the evolutionary changes adopted by bryozoans and will serve as an important reference source for specialists in the fields of paleontology, marine ecology, and invertebrate zoology.
March
Season Premiere: "Here at the Smithsonian," the Institution’s series of short television features, began its seventh season. Nationwide, 175 television stations subscribe.
March 2
Special Celebration: The National Zoo celebrated its one-hundredth birthday with a parade through the Zoo grounds, birthday greetings from civic leaders, and the cutting of a centennial cake by First Lady Barbara Bush.
March 7
Anniversary Celebrations: President George Bush addressed participants at the twentieth anniversary celebration of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Other speakers included Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who was involved in the original planning of the Center and served as vice chairman of
its Board of Trustees from 1971 to 1976; Secretary of State James Baker, currently a member of the Board of Trustees; William J. Baroody, Jr., chairman of the Board of Trustees; and Charles Blitzer, director of the Center.
March 12
Seminar: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies organized a seminar at the Library of Congress titled "Patterns in History and the Rise and Fall of Nations."
March 15
Acquisitions: The opening of the exhibition "Recent Acquisitions: 1986-1988" at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden showed for the first time newly acquired works by Daniel Vladimir Baranoff-Rossine, Ernst Barlach, Sandro Chia, Lucian Freud, Nancy Graves, Oto Gutfreund, Jasper Johns, Martin Puryear, Yves Tinguely, and others. Not included in the exhibition, but also acquired during fiscal year 1989, were important works by Sigmar Polke and Anish Kapoor.

<<<Page: 26>>>

March 19
Special Event: Seal Day, with special talks and demonstrations to increase public awareness of the need to conserve seals, was held at the National Zoo.
March 20
Product Licensing: Smithsonian announced a licensing agreement with Century Furniture Co. of Hickory, North Carolina, that allows reproductions of eighteenthand nineteenth-century furniture selected from the Smithsonian collections.
March 23-26
Symposium: The Office of Folklife Programs sponsored a symposium titled "Seeds of Commerce: Cultural and Economic Exchange in the Caribbean." It is the second in a series of three Quincentenary symposia. Held in Santiago de Cuba under the auspices of the Casa del Caribe, presentations examined the impact of Colonial plantation systems on the development of folklife and culture in Caribbean
societies.
March 29-30
Exhibition: "L’Art de Vivre: Decorative Arts and Design in France, 1789-1989" opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum with a preview on March 29 and a public opening the following day. The landmark exhibition, which celebrates the bicentennial of the French Revolution, was funded by a generous grant from the Comite Colbert. It was the first exhibition since 1976 to fill the entire
museum; it was accompanied by a publication of the same title.
April
Program: Nobel] Laureate Dr. James D. Watson spoke to a capacity audience on "Mapping the Human Genome." The event was sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.
April
Performances: The Duke Ellington Festival at the National Museum of American History presented more than thirty-five performances of Ellington’s music by renowned jazz artists; the festival also included films and a symposium.
April
Video Release: "The Magnificent Whales," the first video production from the Smithsonian Institution Press, was released through Smithsonian Books.
April
Research: Nearly two decades after the Apollo astronauts returned the first samples of lunar soil, a Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory geologist has identified a rock type--cordierite--not previously seen in any of the lunar soil samples.

<<<Page: 27>>>

April
Instrumentation: A fifth Automatic Photoelectric Telescope was installed at the Smithsonian’s Whipple Observatory in Arizona, where it will be used in cooperative programs to observe variable stars.
April
Laboratory: The National Museum of Natural History’s new Laboratory of Molecular Systematics became fully operational, providing a powerful new thrust to the museum’s programs in systematic and evolutionary biology and making possible biochemical and molecular genetic studies of DNA and proteins. The laboratory, located at the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland, is directed by Dr. Michael Braun.
April
Installation: The Office of Horticulture installed a recently restored nineteenth-century fountain titled "Boy With Sword" in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building.
April
Latino Outreach: "Descubra e] Smithsonian," an Office of Telecommunications pilot series of two-minute capsules for Spanish-language television, premiered at the National Hispanic Media Conference in Puerto Rico.
April
Endowment: The Global Environmental Endowment Fund was created to support research, conservation, training, and public education in the field of global environmental studies at the Smithsonian, including biological diversity, faunal
and floral conservation, protection of endangered species, and biotic adaptation
to global change.
April
Special Event: The assistant secretary for public service and the National Cancer Institute hosted an awards presentation and reception in the Arts and Industries Building in observance of National Minority Cancer Awareness Week.
April
Move: The Office of Personnel Administration moved to new quarters at L’Enfant Plaza.

<<<Page: 28>>>

April
Publication: Global Volcanism 1975-85: The First Decade of Reports from the Smithsonian Institution’s Scientific Events Alert Network (SEAN) was published.
Edited by National Museum of Natural History researchers Lindsay McClelland, Tom Simkin, Marjorie Summers, Elizabeth Nielsen, and Thomas C. Stein, this 672-page book is the most complete record ever assembled of all known volcanic events in the world--both major and minor--during a ten-year period.
April 5
Grant: The National Portrait Gallery received a grant from the Smithson Society and Mrs. J. Paul Austin to purchase the Richard Avedon portfoho of seventy-three photographs.
April 5
Visit: President George Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir toured the National Air and Space Museum and later saw "To Fly!" the museum’s everpopular IMAX film about the history of flight.
April 6
Exhibition: "The Ceremonial Court," a new permanent exhibition, opened at the National Museum of American History. The entrance recreates the front corridor of the White House as it looked during the administration of Theodore Roosevelt. The exhibition includes a number of original elements from the White House. Galeries within hold first ladies gowns, presidential artifacts, jewelry,
pottery, and other objects from collections throughout the museum.
April 7
Exhibition: "The Boat Show: Fantastic Vessels, Fictional Voyages" opened at the Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of American Art. The exhibition included eighteen three-dimensional objects by fifteen contemporary artists who drew upon
a legacy of maritime imagery and symbolism. The public was invited to watch five artists assemble their large-scale works from such diverse materials as wood,
glass, metal, hay, and twine.
April 10
Installation: "The Daguerre Monument," Jonathan Scott Hartley’s large sculpture honoring Louis Daguerre, the French pioneer of photography, was unveiled and placed on view on the Seventh Street side of the National Portrait Gallery and the National Museum of American Art.
April 15
Exhibition: "Isamu Noguchi Portrait Sculpture," the first retrospective of a major Japanese American sculptor, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

<<<Page: 29>>>

April 16
Donation: The National Air and Space Museum accepted the promise of a supersonic Concorde airplane from Air France as part of the commemoration of the
bicentennial of the French Revolution. The airplane will become part of the museum’s collection after it has been retired from active service.
April 19
Exhibition: A full-scale structural and dynamic test vehicle for the Hubble
Space Telescope was installed in the National Air and Space Museum’s Space Hall. The Space Telescope, the largest orbiting observatory ever built, will provide
deep space images with ten times the clarity and fifty times the light
sensitivity of the best ground-based telescopes.
April 19-22
Hispanic Media Conference: The Office of Public Affairs, in conjunction with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service, coordinated the preparation
of an exhibit for the Seventh Annual National Hispanic Media Conference in San Juan, Puerto Rico, along with a reception and the appearance of Secretary Adams as a keynote banquet speaker. Twelve hundred reporters attended the conference. A new bilingual brochure on Latino resources at the Smithsonian, produced by the Office of Public Affairs, was distributed at the conference.
April 22
International Conference: "New Approaches to Persian Art and Culture" explored the significant themes that have emerged from recent scholarly research in Persian art and culture. The day-long event featured five papers and a panel discussion by internationally known scholars of Persian art, culture, and
languages.
April 27
Exhibition: Organized by the National Museum of American Art, "The Photography of Invention: American Pictures of the 1980s" opened in celebration of the 150th anniversary of photography. The exhibition included recent works by ninety
artists (six works were especially created for the show) emphasizing the new versatility and inventiveness of the medium. The exhibition later traveled to Chicago and Minneapolis.
April 27
Announcement: The National Air and Space Museum announced plans for a major new large-format IMAX film on space that will focus on the beauty of the Earth and
the fragility of its environmental systems. "Blue Planet," produced in
cooperation with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, will feature
scenes shot on several space shuttle flights by astronauts trained to use the
IMAX camera.
bh P

<<<Page: 30>>>

April 28
Award: Dr. Edward J. Nygren, director of the Smith College Museum of Art, was selected as the first recipient of the Charles C. Eldredge Prize for outstanding scholarship in American art. Established by the American Art Forum, a patron’s support organization of the National Museum of American Art, it is given in honor of the museum’s former director, who founded the forum in 1985.
April 29
Film: The opening of the third Washington, D.C., International Filmfest was held
at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The filmfest was sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service, and the Asian Pacific
American Heritage Committee served as host.
Space Flight: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory received a four-year, $17 million contract to build and operate the Submilimeter Wave Astronomy
Satellite, which will study how molecular clouds in the Milky Way collapse to
form stars and planets.
Exhibition: "Men and Women: A History of Costume, Gender, and Power" opened at the National Museum of American History. The exhibition chronicles the history
of costume and fashion in American history while probing the changing--and, in
some cases, unchanging--standards of appearance and behavior for men and women.
Appointment: Edgardo Maravi was appointed the first development officer for the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. Mr. Maravi trained as an agronomist at the Universidad Agraria in Tingo Maria, Peru.
Program: National Museum of Natural History Director Frank Talbot hosted a reception for thirty guests at the Smithsonian’s Barney Studio House to introduce the museum’s new Director’s Circle, a high-level membership program designed to introduce individuals to behind-the-scenes activities at the National Museum of Natural History.
Special Event: Secretary Adams and the Ambassador of France hosted a reception to celebrate the display in the Arts and Industries Building of the historic documents the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Constitution of 1791 in conjunction with the bicentennial of the French Revolution.
ies)

<<<Page: 31>>>

Donation: The Smithsonian received five watercolor paintings of orchids by Barbara Todd Kennedy, donated to the Office of Horticulture by the artist.
May 1
Public Service Announcement: Japanese American actor Pat Morita, who served as on-camera narrator, appeared with twenty local children in a filmed public
service announcement produced for television by the Office of Public Affairs in
its continuing efforts to reach culturally diverse audiences.
May 2
Video Premiere: “Democracy and Rights: One Citizen’s Challenge," a documentary for high school students jointly produced by the Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies and the CloseUp Foundation, was screened. The video featured Ernest Green and Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. and was narrated by Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. It is based on the 1987 international symposium, "Constitutional
Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities."
May 2-3
Conference: The Forum on Global Change and Our Common Future was cosponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and the National Academy of Sciences for the purpose
of communicating to the public and policymakers the current scientific
understanding of the broad range of issues related to global environmental
change.
May 3
Grant: The National Portrait Gallery received a grant from the Cafritz Foundation for the purchase of the portrait of Bishop George Berkeley by John Smibert.
May 3
Exhibit: The Wetlands/Waterfow] Exhibit opened at the National Zoological Park, and the Zoo’s Conservation Medal was awarded to Sir Peter Scott. Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley presented the medal to Sir Peter, who cut a ribbon to open the exhibit.
May 4-7
Workshop: The Smithsonian Institution/Man and the Biosphere Program conducted a demonstration workshop on research methods for biological inventory, cosponsored
by the National Park Service, at the Great Smoky Mountains Biosphere Reserve in Tennessee.
May 5-6 Symposium: A symposium titled "Violence and Resistance in the Americas: The
Legacy of the Conquest," sponsored by the Office of Quincentenary Programs and coordinated by the Office of Conference Services, was held.

<<<Page: 32>>>

May 8
Milestone: Secretary Adams signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, in New York City, under which the Heye Foundation’s American Indian objects will be transferred to the Smithsonian. The signing ceremony, part of a major press conference organized by the Office of
Public Affairs, involved American Indian representatives, Smithsonian regents,
members of Congress, and other dignitaries.
May 11-12
Conference: The Office of International Relations, in coordination with the U.S. Agency for International Development, held a conference titled "Incentives and Constraints: Macroeconomic Policy Impacts on Natural Resource Utilization."
May 12
Exhibition: The computer revolution in aerospace was the subject of a major new gallery at the National Air and Space Museum. "Beyond the Limits: Flght Enters the Computer Age" was organized into seven exhibit areas, each featuring hands-on interactive computer terminals so that visitors can see for themselves the kinds
of tasks that computers perform.
May 15-19
Special Event: In recognition that a healthy work force is one of the Smithsonian’s most valuable assets, the Office of Protection Services expanded the Institution’s occupational health program by initiating employee wellness activities. During "Fit Week," hundreds of employees participated in such programs as health assessment, on-site exercise classes and a weight-control program, and special screening activities (including blood pressure monitoring, cholesterol screening, and mammography).
May 19
Meeting: In a meeting at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Bronislaw Geremek discussed Poland’s upcoming elections that were to result in Eastern Europe’s first noncommunist government since World War II. Geremek, a medieval historian and former fellow of the Woodrow Wilson Center, was elected to Poland’s parliament in the June 1989 elections and became Solidarity’s floor
leader in the lower house.
May 21
Grant: The Peter Krueger-Christie’s Fellowship was established for advanced research in design and decorative arts at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Krueger joined with Christie’s to make possible the fellowship in memory
of their son, Peter A. Krueger, former vice-president of French and Continental Furniture at Christie’s and one-time intern at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
ie) in

<<<Page: 33>>>

May 21
Exhibition: "The Real McCoy: African American Invention and Innovation, 16191930," which traces the important role played by African American inventiveness, opened at the Anacostia Museum. The exhibition included a wide range of educational programs focusing on inventiveness and creativity for the museum’s diverse audiences.
May 23
Milestone: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum purchased the landmark townhouse adjacent to its current facilities. The building is a major element of the museum’s master
plan to develop a coherent public facility, equipped with a study center for three-dimensional objects, an auditorium for lectures, conferences, and other
programs, and adequate space for collection storage, a loading dock, and a
receiving area.
May 23
Special Event: In conjunction with Reading Is Fundamental and ABC-TV’s "Good Morning America" show, the National Zoological Park provided support for a special broadcast to encourage literacy. First Lady Barbara Bush took part in the program, which was aired from the Zoo’s Education Building Auditorium.
May 24-June 7
Expedition: A Smithsonian Research Expedition titled "Documenting Our Veterans’ Memorials" was conducted in Washington, D.C., to capture on film the preparation, commemoration, and aftermath of Memorial Day for the Smithsonian’s photographic archives and for the National Museum of American History’s Division of Armed Forces.
May 25
Special Event: Friends of the National Zoo’s ZooFari, a gala evening event to raise funds for the Zoo’s Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund, attracted hundreds of participants. The fund supports the propagation of rare and endangered species at the National Zoo.
June
Publication: A book, The Bishop’s Boys: A Life of Wilbur and Onille Wright,
written by Tom D. Crouch, chairman of the Department of Social and Cultural History at the National Museum of American History, was published by W. W. Norton and Company.
June
Lecture: Internationally recognized author, lecturer, teacher, photographer, and scholar Beaumont Newhall spoke on "The Birth of Photography" in an evening marking the 150th anniversary of photography and complementing the National Gallery of Art exhibition "On the Art of Fixing a Shadow: 150 Years of Photography." The evening was cosponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.

<<<Page: 34>>>

June
Exhibition: "Great American Comics: 100 Years of Cartoon Art" received generous funding from King Features’ Syndicate. In the centennial year of American comic strips, this exhibition, which will travel, examines the social and political
impact and artistic heritage of cartoons in our culture.
June
Special Event: National Museum of Natural History anthropologist Ives Goddard and colleague Dr. Kathleen Bragdon presented copies of their newly published study, "Native Writings in the Massachusett Language" (American Philosophical Society), to representatives of the Wampanoag Tribal Councils of Mashpee and Gay Head (Massachusetts). This two-volume work contains the first translation ever made of the body of known surviving manuscripts written by Christian Indians in southeastern Massachusetts during the Colonial period.
June
Research: Speckle interferometry observations of Supernova 1987A by a Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory team revealed a displacement in the supernova’s center of brightness with respect to its suspected pre-explosion progenitor star. This suggests that the star may have been part of a binary system and that one component survived the massive explosion.
June
Program: The National Museum of Natural History added a major component to its biodiversity program by taking over administrative responsibility for the Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems project from the World Wildlife Fund, which initiated
it. The project, located in Manaus, Brazil, has made a significant contribution
to tropical forest conservation by demonstrating that species disappear from a
land area in inverse relation to its size.
June
Phone System: To handle the Institution’s half million annual public inquiries more efficiently, a new phone system was installed in the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center.
June
Startup: The Office of Folklife Programs initiated a startup of the on-demand cassette fulfillment distribution of Folkways titles not commercially available.
June Publication: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies’ brochure titled "The
Wholeness of Knowledge," detailing the history and purpose of the office, was published.

<<<Page: 35>>>

June
Publication: "Science Education: A Challenge for Excellence in America’s Future," proceedings of a May 1988 colloquium organized by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies and the Achievement Rewards for College Scientists Foundation, was published.
June
New Unit: Smithsonian Institution Libraries Director Barbara J. Smith approved an earlier agreement between John R. Kinard and Vija L. Karklins that stated that the Anacostia Museum Library be included in the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries’ History and Art Unit. The library collections will be incorporated in
the Museum of American History Branch of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries.
June 1
Television Series: At a ceremony presided over by Luis Gomez-Acebo, Duque de Badajoz, and the Smithsonian Institution’s representative in Spain, the Sociedad General de Television, S.A., the Sociedad Estatal para la Ejecucion de Programas del Quinto Centenario, and the Smithsonian Institution signed an agreement to produce a six-part, bilingual television series, "The Buried Mirror."
June 1
Dedication: The Charles McC. Mathias Laboratory at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center was dedicated to the former Maryland senator in recognition of
his very active role in Chesapeake Bay environmental issues.
June 3
Exhibition: The exhibition "Caribbean Festival Arts," organized by the St. Louis Art Museum, opened to the public in the International Gallery.
June 4
Book Signing: Alice Walker, author of The Color Purple and The Temple of My Familiar, gave a Smithsonian Resident Associate Program lecture and appeared later at a book signing reception.
June 4
Program: The fourteenth annual High School Summer Intern Program began its first session under the auspices of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Each summer, this program brings forty high school graduates from around the country to the Institution for a five-week learning/service experience.
June 5
Family Days: The first of four family days planned to support the "Caribbean Festival Arts" exhibition was held. These events had broad appeal and involved community participation from local West Indian communities. Each event attracted an audience of approximately 10,000. Other family days were held on July 8, August 5, and September 2.

<<<Page: 36>>>

June 6
Tribute: In a small ceremony, the reflecting pool of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden was named the Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman Foundation Pool in acknowledgement of a generous grant to the museum from that foundation.
June 9
Lecture: The first offering in the Joseph Fletcher, Jr.. Lecture Series was
delivered by Glenn D. Lowry, curator of Near Eastern art at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art. The three-part series focused on various
aspects of Persian art and architecture and was held to coincide with the Sackler Gallery exhibition "Timur and the Princely Vision: Persian Art and Culture in
the Fifteenth Century." The remaining two lectures in the series were delivered
by John Woods of the University of Chicago and Lisa Golumbek of the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, Canada.
June 9
Workshop: A workshop for bureau office directors and central managers was held to identify ways to improve the planning process at the Smithsonian. The
workshop was sponsored by the Office of Planning and Budget and conducted by the National Center for Higher Educational Management Systems.
June 13
Special Event: The second annual Smithsonian Garden Party honoring the new members of the Board of Regents, Vice President Quayle and Rep. Jamie Whitten, and members of the 101st Congress was held in the Enid A. Haupt Garden.
June 14-17
Triennial Meeting: The Museum of African Art hosted the Eighth Triennial Symposium on African Art organized by the Arts Council of the African Studies Association and sponsored by ACASA, Shel Companies Foundation, Inc., the National Museum of African Art, and the National Museum of Natural History.
June 15
Symposium: In conjunction with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s exhibition "L’Art de Vivre," a symposium titled "A Taste for History: Furnishings and Fashion in 19th-Century France" was held. The all-day symposium included three scholarly lectures about the evolution of the interior, the art of the table, and the art
of fashion during the period, followed by a roundtable discussion with curators, editors, and important French design industry executives.
June 16
Exhibition: “Aeropittura Futurista: Images of Flight in Italian Art from 1913
to 1942" opened at the National Air and Space Museum. The exhibition emphasized a style of futurism that embraced technology as its subject matter and glorified
the airplane as a symbol of the modern age. Some seventy works of art and forty documents were on display for the three-month exhibition.

<<<Page: 37>>>

June 16
Summer Hours: Extended hours for the National Museum of American History, the National Museum of Natural History, and the National Air and Space Museum began. This year, they included an extra half-hour in the morning, as well as evening
hours. Hours were 9:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. and continued through Labor Day, September 4.
June 17
Celebration: The Anacostia Museum held a "Juneteenth Day" celebration commemorating the day that Texan slaves first learned of their emancipation. The holiday observance, traditionally held on June 19, was the occasion for quilting demonstrations, storytelling, musical performances, and the display of Texan folk art at the museum.
June 20
Distinguished Guest: Wang Yani, the 14-year-old Chinese girl who became the youngest artist ever to have a one-person exhibition at the Smithsonian, traveled from China for the opening of "Yani: The Brush of Innocence" at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. At the press preview held on this day, she demonstrated her painting to an enthusiastic audience of representatives from the print and electronic media. The exhibition drew twice as many visitors to the gallery during July and August as it had had the previous year.
June 21
Exhibition: "Robert Moskowitz," the first museum retrospective for this 54-year-old artist who has been increasingly recognized for his distinct contribution to contemporary American painting opened its national tour at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
June 23-27; June 30-July 4
Festival of American Folklife: The twenty-third annual Festival of American Folklife featured Hawai'i folklife; oral traditions and crafts of communities in France and French-speaking North America; access to cultural, social, and natural resources among American Indians; and cultural encounters throughout the Caribbean, highlighting Haiti, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and Cuba.
June 22
Open House: An all-day centennial community celebration at the National Zoo was held. Activities included the opening of a special exhibit of historical Zoo photographs, performances by musical groups, animal demonstrations, and animal keeper talks and tours.
June 24 Special Event: As part of the Festival of American Folklife, the Hawai’i program presented a pa’u parade featuring flower-adorned horses and riders. The parade
was led by Governor and Mrs. John Waihee of Hawai’i and Representative David K. Akaka.

<<<Page: 38>>>

June 26
Seminars: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its 1989 series of summer seminars for teachers. This year the program included eight seminars for local teachers from the Washington, D.C., area and one graduate course for teachers around the United States.
June 29-July 13
Institute: The Office of Folklife Programs’ Folklore Summer Institute for Community Scholars hosted thirteen individuals, who have been involved in collecting, preserving, and presenting folklore in their home communities, for training and information exchange. The participants represented a variety of cultural and geographic regions of the United States.
July
Award: Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon, curator in the Division of Community Life at the National Museum of American History, received a $275,000 fellowship to pursue work of her choice from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.
July
Expansion: Smithsonian Institution Press expanded its international distribution capabilities significantly by joining a marketing consortium with university
presses from Harvard, Yale, MIT, the Brookings Institution, and the University of Chicago.
July
New Directions: The release of the book titled Just Before Jazz: Black Musical Theater in New York, 1890-1915 signals the expansion of the Smithsonian Institution Press’ list-building efforts in books about music and American cultural history.
July
Program: The National Museum of Natural History’s Office of Education began a program that brings storytellers, musicians, dancers, and artisans to the museum setting from tribes throughout the United States and Canada to demonstrate the cultural heritage of Native Americans that is still thriving in many different
forms throughout North America. Among the participants was Vanessa Morgan, an Oklahoma Kiowa, whose skill at bead working made her a 1989 recipient of a National Heritage Award from the Folk Art Program of the National Endowment for the Arts.
July
Workshop: The first joint Mexican and American workshop on the taxonomy and natural history of the bees of Mexico was held in Mexico. Organized by Mexican and United States scientists with funding provided by the Smithsonian’s Office of International Relations through its International Exchanges Program, the workshop was the outgrowth of a cooperative program on the bees of Mexico.

<<<Page: 39>>>

July and September
Acquisition: Two important collections of extraordinary utilitarian objects primarily from East and Southern Africa were acquired by the Museum of African Art.
July 2
Milestone: Alice Burnette was named assistant secretary for institutional initiatives, the first woman to be appointed as an assistant secretary in the Institution’s senior management staff.
July 2
Workshop: The Smithsonian Institution/Man and the Biosphere Program, in cooperation with Liga de Defensa del Medio Ambiente, the Academia de Ciencias Naturales, and the Universidad Mayor de San Andres, conducted the program’s third annual workshop in Bolivia titled "Conservation of Natural Resources and the Management of Protected Areas, Flora, and Fauna in Bolivia." The program continued to August 1.
July 3
Exhibition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries opened an exhibition on stratigraphy titled "Stratigraphy’s Golden Age: Murchison and his Silurian
System." The exhibition was curated by Ellen B. Wells and commemorated the 150th anniversary of a landmark in stratigraphy. The show, which was accompanied by an illustrated brochure, was coordinated with the 28th International Geological
Congress, which met in Washington, D.C.
July 5
Appointment: Barbara J. Smith was appointed director of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries. Dr. Smith was assistant dean of libraries at Pennsylvania State University. She succeeds Robert Maloy, who left the Smithsonian Institution Libraries in October 1987.
July 6
Exhibition: "Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St. Helens" opened and drew 514,979 visitors during its twelve-week run, the highest attendance ever recorded for a National Museum of Natural History Evans Gallery exhibition. The exhibition will travel for three years to eleven major cities.
July 6
Research Grant: The National Museum of American Art received $850,000 from the Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia for a national inventory and condition assessment of American sculpture. The money was awarded jointly to the projects cosponsor, the National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property, in Washington, D.C.

<<<Page: 40>>>

July 10-22
Program: The National Science Resources Center launched its first Elementary Science Leadership Institute in the S. Dillon Ripley Center with forty-five representatives from fifteen of the largest school districts nationwide.
Participants attended workshops on the benefits of hands-on science learning and formulated plans to implement improvements in their local elementary science education programs.
July 11
Reception: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries cohosted a reception with the History of Earth Sciences Society for attendees of the 28th International Geological Congress in the Dibner Library of the History of Science and Technology.
July 14-16
Regional Event: The Smithsonian National Associate Lecture and Seminar Program presented a weekend of lectures and workshops in conjunction with the California Museum of Science and Industry, Los Angeles, California, to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing. Staff from the National Air and Space Museum presented programs, including "The History of Manned Space Flight" and "A Spacecraft Tour of the Solar System."
July 20
Special Event: The National Air and Space Museum, along with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, celebrated the twentieth anniversary of the first manned landing on the moon. A morning public ceremony held on the steps of the museum included participation by President George Bush, Vice President Dan Quayle, and the Apollo 11 crew. A free lunar landing party held later that
evening attracted thousands of area residents and visitors and featured films,
tours, education programs, and other special activities. The Office of
Protection Services, in close cooperation with the Secret Service, the U.S. Park Police, and local law enforcement authorities, provided protection services for
the celebration.
July 27-28
Advisory Council: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education convened the third annual meeting of the Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education. Appointed by the secretary, the council is charged with the task of helping to stimulate
and shape Smithsonian-wide priorities and directions in education.
August Search Committee: A search committee, chaired by Smithsonian Undersecretary Dean
Anderson, was announced to nominate a director for the proposed National Museum of the American Indian.

<<<Page: 41>>>

August
Research: An X-ray instrument called the Large Area Modular Array of Reflectors developed at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics was selected as one of fourteen scientific experiments to be attached to the Space Station during its assembly.
August
Information System: Phase three of the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center’s exterior graphic information system--the redesign and refurbishment of the Mall general information directories (a joint project of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Park Service)--was completed.
August
Awards: Four Golden Eagle (first place) awards from the Council on International Non-theatrical Events were announced for Smithsonian productions. The winners were "Magnificent Voyagers," "Reel Jungle" ("Tropical Rainforest" exhibit), "From Reliable Sources," and "The Smithsonian Institution," an interactive video for
the Visitor Information Center. "Magnificent Voyagers" went on to represent the United States in the International Maritime Festival in Toulon, France. A record number of awards and citations from the broadcast and film industry were received during the year by the Office of Telecommunications.
August
Publication: Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute entomologist David W. Roubik published Ecology and Natural History of Tropical Bees, which presents a synthesis of the ecology, natural history, and evolution of tropical bees around the world, including their interaction with human populations.
August 10
Symposium: “Art and Controversy: Historical Perspectives, Current Issues," a four-speaker program that offered diverse opinions and discussions of this timely topic, was held at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The event, cosponsored by the Washington Project for the Arts, was moderated by Richard Andrews, former director of the Visual Arts Program of the National Endowment for the Arts.
August 15
Liaison: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute established a new liaison office in the Arts and Industries Building in order to provide more effective and timely interaction between the institute and the Smithsonian’s Washington
offices.

<<<Page: 42>>>

August 15-22
Expedition: A Smithsonian Research Expedition, "The Legacy of the Horse in Crow Culture," was conducted at the annual Crow Fair in Billings, Montana. Team members helped document the fair through written descriptions and photographs. The information gathered will be used in the National Museum of Natural History’s upcoming "Seeds of Change” exhibition.
August 18
Exhibition: The first professionally designed and produced exhibition of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, "Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama," opened at the National Museum of Natural History. The bilingual exhibition, in Spanish and English, then traveled to Panama, where it was installed in the new Tupper Auditorium.
August 19
Meeting: Secretary Adams met in Santa Fe, New Mexico, with leaders of American Indian communities, museum professionals, and collectors of Native American art to share perspectives on the proposed National Museum of the American Indian.
August 23
Appointment: Dr. Forrest McGill, a specialist in the art of South and Southeast Asia, was named assistant director of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Dr. McGill came to the Smithsonian from his post as director of the Museum of Art and Archaeology at the University of Missouri in Columbia.
August 30
Appointment: Dr. Elizabeth Broun was selected as director of the National Museum of American Art. An American art scholar, Broun served as assistant director and chief curator at the museum from 1983 until August 1988, when she was appointed acting director following the resignation of Dr. Charles C. Eldredge.
September
Research: The highest resolution X-ray images of a solar flare and the solar corona ever obtained were made by a Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory/IBM telescope aboard a National Aeronautics and Space Administration sounding rocket launched from White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico.
September
Education: An activity book for high school students containing some two dozen hands-on experiments drawn from astronomy was developed at the HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics by Project STAR in cooperation with staff science advisors.

<<<Page: 43>>>

September
Continuing Project: Progress continued on the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center exterior graphic information system with the installation of out-of-doors directional signs to the Anacostia Museum.
September
Transfer: The Intern, Orientation, and Registration Program was transferred from the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center to the Office of Museum Programs.
September
Program: The National Science Resources Center entered into a working partnership with twenty-one public schools in twelve districts around the country (plus the Department of Defense Dependents’ School, Clark Air Base, in the Philippines) to field-test elementary science curriculum units under development by the Science and Technology for Children project.
September
Publication: Hirshhom WORKS 88 was published by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, launching what is hoped to be an ongoing series of yearbooks on WORKS projects. Included were essays and photographs on the four site-specific projects by Sol LeWitt, Kate Ericson/Mel Ziegler, Vernon Fisher, and Krzysztof Wodiczko, respectively, executed between November 1987 and October 1988.
September
Film Series: The Museum of African Art launched the premiere of a thirteen-part film series, "Things Fall Apart," based on the highly acclaimed novel by Nigerian author Chinua Achebe. Lectures featuring prominent black scholars were offered in conjunction with the film.
September
Publication: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies completed a publication called Completing the Food Chain: Strategies for Combating Hunger and Malnutrition, Neil G. Kotler and Paula M. Hirschoff, editors. The book is second in a series of world food colloquia publications.
September
Milestone: The Office of Public Affairs prepared its first extensive publicity campaign in Spanish for Hispanic Heritage Month, including both newspaper and radio advertisements.
September
Videodisc: "The Smithsonian Institution,” a state-of-the-art interactive video,
was completed for the new Smithsonian Information Center to provide visitors with
detailed information about the museums, activities for children, special tours, and restaurants.

<<<Page: 44>>>

September
Film: "The Earth in Our Hands,” a one-hour film narrated by Robert Redford for national broadcast, was completed and premiered at the Second International Conference on Ecological Closed Systems in Krasnoyarsk, USSR.
September
System: The Office of Planning and Budget, in concert with other offices, completed a requirements statement, design, and initial development of the new personnel cost projection system. Software development was completed and an employee training manual was released. Two orientation sessions were held for bureau and office staff throughout the Institution.
September
Opening: The Office of Horticulture participated in the opening of the Louis Comfort Tiffany exhibition at the Renwick Gallery. Plant arrangements were planned to reflect those shown in Tiffany’s glass creations and to establish the feeling of his home and the period of his work.
September
Acquisition: The Office of Horticulture purchased the important J. W. Fiske fountain, known as Centennial Fountain, with figures of children under an umbrella.
September 1
Birth: Giant Panda Ling-Ling gave birth to an undersized cub at the National Zoo. The cub was retrieved from its mother, who was being treated for a urinary/genital tract infection. Zoo veterinarians administered antibiotics and immune globulins to the cub to help it fight infection. Unfortunately, the cub died forty hours after birth.
September 3-17
Workshop: The Smithsonian Institution/Man and the Biosphere Program conducted its first training workshop in Ecuador. The lead coordinator in Ecuador was the Charles Darwin Foundation.
September 7
Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired Louis Comfort Tiffany’s "Market Day Outside the Walls of Tangier," a gift from the American Art Forum. One of the artist’s most ambitious combinations of exotic ancedote, ethnographic detail, and sensuous color, this painting helped establish Tiffany’s reputation in 1873 as a skilled observer of the Near East.

<<<Page: 45>>>

September 8
Conversation with Artists: Four artists whose works were included in the National Museum of American Art exhibition "The Patricia and Phillip Frost Collection: American Abstraction 1930-1945" discussed the development of American abstraction and its birth in a time of economic chaos, international upheaval, and the cataclysm of world war.
September 12
Press Conference: The Office of Public Affairs participated in the production of
a press conference held at the Capitol with Secretary Adams, Senator Daniel Inouye, and Representative Ben Nighthorse Campbell on the Smithsonian’s policy on repatriation of American Indian skeletal remains.
September 13-15
Workshop: The Office of Environmental Management: and Safety, in coordination with the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Programs, conducted a three-day workshop geared specifically to small museums and other educational and cultural
institutions located worldwide. This unique workshop addressed program development and problem-solving in the areas of fire protection, disaster
planning, occupational safety and health, and environmental management.
September 14-15
Conference: The Office of External Affairs organized a conference titled "The Global Environment: Are We Overreacting?" to present an overview of global environmental issues to the leadership of the U.S. news media and to explore the roles of the news media and scientists in interpreting and disseminating environmental information to the general public.
September 15
Dialogue: The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars collaborated with the project office for the "Caribbean Festival Arts" exhibition to present the
first of four scholarly dialogues titled "The Importance of Carnival in Caribbean Culture."
September 16
Seminar: One hundred one Associates participating in the Smithsonian Associates Travel Program’s eleventh annual Oxford/Smithsonian Seminar, led by Smithsonian Regent Jeannine Smith Clark, departed for England.
September 16
Demonstration: Five nationally recognized furniture makers demonstrated their
skills and special techniques in an all-day Smithsonian Resident Associate Program seminar made possible by a grant from the Hechinger Foundation.

<<<Page: 46>>>

September 19
Seminar Series: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies presented a seminar, "Oceans, Icons, and Genes: Ownership at Issue," as part of the "Ways of Knowing" series.
September 20
Publication: The Archives of American Art published The Papers of African American Artists, which describes the Archives’ holdings of personal papers, sketchbooks, scrapbooks, and tape-recorded interviews of African American artists. The Archives holds papers of more than fifty African American artists dating from the late nineteenth century to the present.
September 20
Celebration: In celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, the Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program hosted the Washington premiere of one of of the most respected bands from Central America, Yolocamba I Ta, who performed for an audience that included many members of the Hispanic community of Washington, D.C.
September 22-23
Special Event: The James Smithson Society’s annual weekend was held in conjunction with the fal meeting of the National Board of the Smithsonian Associates. Gay F. Wray, chairman of the National Board, announced the projects recelving 1989 Society grants and awarded the Society’s Founder Medal to Mercer Ellington for his donation of the Duke Ellington Collection to the National Museum of American History.
September 25
Acquisition: A bust of President George Bush, sculpted by Marc Mellon, was unveiled in the National Portrait Gallery’s Hall of Presidents by Mrs. Vincent Melzac, who, with her husband, donated the bust to the gallery.
September 27
Special Event: The New England Regional Center of the Archives of American Art held an open house in the early nineteenth-century home that houses the
Archives’s Boston office. Tom L. Freudenheim, Smithsonian assistant secretary
for museums, spoke at a seminar titled "The Impact of the Archives of American Art on the American Art World."
September 28 Film Series: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s highly acclaimed free
film program began the 1989-1990 season with screenings of art documentaries, independent or experimental productions, and animated shorts.

<<<Page: 47>>>

September 28
Lecture and Film Series: In preparation for a major exhibition and book on strategic bombing, the National Air and Space Museum launched a 16-month series of public lectures, symposia, and films--all dedicated to exploring the history
and legacy of strategic bombing. The first speaker in the series was Phillip Morrison, a physicist on the Manhattan Project and a member of the first scientific team to visit the bombed city of Hiroshima in 1945.
September 29
Symposium: Cooper-Hewitt staff led a symposium sponsored by the Decorative Arts Association of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and titled "Explorations: Interior
Fabrics of the 1990s," which included lectures and a panel discussion by five internationally recognized designers, architects, and experts--Jack Lenor Larsen, Murray Bartlett, Hugh Hardy, Patricia Conway, and Pierre Paulin. The subject of the discussion was the role of fabrics in the design of public and private
interiors in terms of issues and trends for the coming decade.
September 29
Exhibitions: Two new exhibitions in the Sea-Air Gallery of the National Air and
Space Museum opened--"Carrier War in the Pacific" and "Squadron Ready Room." The first chronicles the six major carrier battles fought by the United States and
Imperial Japanese navies during World War I. The second simulates a ready room for flight crews abroad an aircraft carrier.
September 30
Special Event: As part of an ongoing effort to strengthen ties between museums
and schools across the United States, the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education conducted a Regional Workshop in Amarillo, Texas. The workshop brought together representatives from 33 museums, historic sites, and nature centers, as
well as 450 teachers from the area.

<<<Page: 48>>>

Appendix I
Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1989
Honorable William H. Rehnquist, The Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor, ex officio
Honorable J. Danforth Quayle, the Vice President of the United States, ex OLETCHO
Honorable E. J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah Honorable Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York Honorable James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee
Honorable Silvio 0. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California Honorable Jamie L. Whitten, Representative from Mississippi
Honorable David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of Columbia Honorable Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas
Dr. William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey
Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of Columbia Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Citizen of Pennsylvania Mr. Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin
Mr. Barnabas McHenry, Citizen of New York
Vacancy
Vacancy
Neil Harris Miguel Leon-Portilla Chairman Robert M. May Johnnetta B. Cole Matthew S. Meselson
Michael A. Dorris Martin Friedman Paul Fussell Robert Garfias Dorothy Gilliam James W. Head, III John P. Holdren Thomas P. Hughes Alice S. Ilchman
Sidney W. Mintz Frederick W. Mote David F. Musto Jaroslav J. Pelikan Peter H. Raven Jaime E. Rodriguez Alan Shestack
Emily D. T. Vermeule Thomas G. Wicker

<<<Page: 49>>>

Mr. Frank Newton, Chairperson Dr. Margaret Batchelor-White, Co-Chairperson
Ms. Jo Allyn Archambault Mr. Mike M. Masoaka
Mrs. Peggy Cooper Cafritz Mrs. Elizabeth Fagg Olds Mr. James (Biff) Carter Hon. Ricardo M. Urbina Mrs. Robert Reed Gray Mr. W. Ricahrd West, Jr. Ms. Suzan Harjo Ms. Patricia Zell
Mrs. Esther G. Kee
Robert McC. Adams Robert S. Hoffmann Whitfield J.. Bell,= Jr. David J. E. Saumweber Charles C. Gillispie Frederick Seitz, Chair

<<<Page: 50>>>

Mrs.
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
Mrs.
Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman Emeritus Richard J. Schwartz, President Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President Francis de Marneffe, Vice President
John N. Rosekrans, Jr., Vice President
Abbott K. Schlain, Treasurer
Dana M. Raymond, Secretary
Joel S. Ehrenkranz, Officer-at-Large Miss Julienne M. Michel, Officer-at-Large Keith S. Wellin, Honorary Officer
Miss Caroline R. Alexander
. Max N. Berry
Eli Broad Ivan Chermayeff Gilbert S. Edelson
. Ahmet M. Ertegun . Arthur A. Feder . Miles Q. Fiterman
Daniel Fraad Bernard A. Greenberg
Hugh Halff, Jr.
Benjamin D. Holloway John K. Howat Helen Jessup
Founding Trustees
. Lawrence A. Fleischman . Edgar P. Richardson . Edsel B. Ford
Ex OffTCiO
Robert McC. Adams
. Milton Brown
Tom L. Freudenheim Harley P. Holden
Mrs.
Mrs. . Alan E. Schwartz . A. Alfred Taubman
Dr. Mie
Mrs.
Henry C. Johnson Gilbert H. Kinney
. Alan D. Levy
Howard W. Lipman Meredith J. Long Richard Manney Richard A. Manoogian
. Alexander R. Mehran
Mayer Mitchell Richard Roob
John Wilmerding
R. Frederick Woolworth Honorary Trustees
Irving F. Burton
Russell Lynes William L. Richards

<<<Page: 51>>>

Southeast Regional Center
Marc J. Pachter, Chair Edmund Berkeley Elizabeth Broun Lorraine Brown
Paul Chestnut
Nicolai Cikovsky
Alan Fern
Lois Fink
New York Regional Center
Milton Brown, Chair William C. Agee Thomas N. Armstrong Anne d'Harnoncourt John Dobkin
Linda S. Ferber William Gerdts Eugene Goossen
John Howat
James Humphry III
New England Regional Center
Harley P. Holden, Chair Winslow Ames
Georgia B. Barnhill David S. Brooke
Robert Cardinale Theresa Cederholm
Anne Farnam
Charles Ferguson Wolfgang Freitag
Hugh Gourley
Elton W. Hall
Patricia Hills
Sinclair Hitchings
John Kirk
Elizabeth M. Kornhauser William Lipke
William Homer Charles F. Hummel Bernard Mergen Christina Orr-Cahall Rick Powell
John Vlach
Judith Zilczer
Abram Lerner
Russell Lynes
Porter McCray
Barbara Novak
Clive Phillpot
Jules D. Prown William B. Walker
H. Barbara Weinberg John Wilmerding William E. Woolfenden
Laura C. Luckey
Paul Master-Karnik Eva Moseley
Elliot Offner
James O'Gorman Ronald Onorato
James M. O'Toole Stephen Riley
Daniel Rosenfeld David Ross
Theodore E. Stebbins, Susan Strickler Katharine Watson Michael Westworth Margret Craver Withers

<<<Page: 52>>>

West Coast Regional Center
Whitney Chadwick, Chair
Gerald Bolas Herschel Chipp Wanda Corn
John Dillenberger Charles Eldredge Albert Elsen Harvey Jones
John Lane
Southern California Regional Center
Constance Glenn, E. Maurice Bloch Ruth Bowman
Bram Dijkstra Beatrice Farwell Noriko Fujinami Henry Hopkins Josine Ianco-Star
Chicago Documentation Project
Dennis Adrian
Don Baum
Jack Brown, ex of Courtney Donnell Richard Gray
Neil Harris
Diana Haskell Judith Kirshner
Chair
rels
fico
Connie Lewallen Margaretta Lovell Harry S. Parker III Moira Roth
Peter Selz
Marc Simpson Patterson Sims Donald L. Stover Ian McKibbin White
Christopher Knight Richard Koshalek Amy Meyers
Earl A. Powell III Michael Quick Maurice Tuchman Richard V. West Cecile Whiting
Katharine Lee Archibald Motley Franz Schulze David Sokol James Wells
Wim de Wit
John Zukowsky

<<<Page: 53>>>

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY Visiting Committee
Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio Robert S. Hoffmann, Ex Officio Thomas E. Lovejoy, Ex Officio
Dr. Charles Blitzer, Chair Professor Kwang-chih Chang
Mrs. Cynthia Helms
Mr. Porter A. ‘McCray
Ambassador George McGhee
August Heckscher, Chairman Joanne du Point, Vice Chairman Karen Johnson Boyd
Donald J. Bruckmann
Joan K. Davidson
Harmon Goldstone
Russell Lynes
Kenneth Miller
Arthur Ross
Robert Sarnoff
Marietta Tree
Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Tom Freudenheim, Ex Officio
FREER GALLERY OF ART Visiting Committee
Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio
Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio
Robert S. Hoffmann, Ex Officio
Thomas E. Lovejoy, Ex Officio
Mrs. Jackson Burke, Chair
The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Vice Chair
Professor Kwang-chih Chang
Mr. Willard G. Clark
Mr. Henry Millon
The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta Mrs. Cynthia Polsky
Professor Edith Porada
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
H.H. Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan Professor Yoshiaki Shimizu Professor Seymour Slive
Mr. Michael Sonnenreich
Professor Marvin Eisenberg Mr. John G. Ford
Mrs. Katharine Graham
Dr. Sherman E. Lee
Professor Frederick W. Mote Professor Martin Powers Professor John M. Rosenfield The Honorable Hugh Scott Professor Priscilla Soucek

<<<Page: 54>>>

Chairman Vice Chairman
Sydney Lewis, Jerome Greene, Charles Blitzer Robert T. Buck Agnes Gund Robert Lehrman Robert Rosenblum Leonard C. Yaseen
Robert McCormick Adams, William Hubbs Rehnquist,
(term ended June 30,
19'8'9')
BX JO£fFTE16 EX O£LL1C16
Robert McC. Adams, Chairman V/Admiral Richard F. Dunleavy, USN Samiel W. Keller, NASA
V/Admiral Clyde T. Lusk, Jr., USOG Lt/General Donald S. Pihl, USA
Lt/General C.H. Pitman, USMC Jacqueline Ponder
Peter F. Schabarum
Bernard E. Smith, Jr. General Larry D. Welch, USAF
Dr. Lew Allen
Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin Professor Freeman Dyson Admiral Noel Gayler Professor James R. Hansen
Robert H. Nooter, Chairman
Frances Humphrey Howard, Vice-Chairman
Charles B. Benenson
John Conyers, Jr.
David C. Driskell
John A. Friede
James L. Hudson
Colbert I. King
Helen Kuhn
Dr. John Logsdon Professor Otto Mayr
Dr. Harrison H. Schmidt Professor William R. Sears Dr. Joan Warnow
Robin B. Martin
Frank E. Moss
Frieda Rosenthal
Michael R. Sonnenreich
Donald M. Stewart
Robert Farris Thompson
Walter E. Washington
Robert McC. Adams, ex officio Tom L. Freudenheim, ex officio

<<<Page: 55>>>

Mr. David S. Purvis, Chairperson Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Vice Chairperson
Mr. Ronald Abramson Mrs. Caroline Hume
Mr. Norman Bernstein Mr. R. Crosby Kemper, Jr. Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake Mr. Myron Kunin
Mr. Thomas S. Buechner Mr. Jacob Lawrence
Dr. Mary Schmidt Campbell Mr. Melvin Lenkin
Mr. Wendell K. Castle Mr. Jacques E. Lennon Prof. Wanda M. Corn Mr. Owen M. Lopez
Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy Mrs. Patricia Frost Mr. Charles Parkhurst Mrs. Margaret Dodge Garrett Mrs. Sharon Percy Rockefeller Mr. August Heckscher Mrs. Caroline Simmons
Mr. Robert McC. Adams, ex officio Mr. James T. Demetrion, ex officio
Mr. Walker Hancock, Emeritus Mr. Charles H. Sawyer, Emeritus
Jeannine Smith Clark (Chairperson)
Michael Collins
Thomas Mellon Evans
Stephen Jay Gould
Marta Istomin
W. John Kenney
David Levering Lewis
R. W. B. Lewis
Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Robert Morgan
Barbara Novak
Frank Stanton
J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

<<<Page: 56>>>

Albert Baez Hubert Dyasi James Ebert Elsa Feher Robert C. Forney Robert Fuller Samuel Gibbon Jack Goldstein Harry Gray Charles Hardy Robert Hoffman Ann Kahn
Amie Knox William McCune
Phyllis Marcuccio
Lynn Margulis
Ted Maxwell
Philip Morrison
Phylis Morrison
Jerome Pine
Peter Raven
Robert Ridky
Irwin Shapiro
David Sheetz
Melvin Webb
Carolyn Wilson
Karen Worth
Ralph Rinzler, ex officio Philip M. Smith, ex officio
Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education
Claudine Brown
Peggy Cole
Anna Cross Frances Haley
Carolyn Howard
Yolanda M. Lopez Eliot Wigginton
FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL Richard Bauman, Chairman Roger Abrahams Henry Glassie Rayna Green John Langston Gwaltney Charlotte Heth
Michael Asch Marilyn Averett Ossie Davis Mickey Hart Pete Seeger
Assistant Director, Government and Community Relations, Brooklyn Museum
Director, Division of Museum Programs, New York Hall of Science
Independent Consultant on Youth and Museums
Executive Director, National Council for the Social Studies
Instructor, Literary and Media Arts, Duke Ellington School of the Arts
Visual Artist and Art Educator
Director, Foxfire
Adrienne Kaeppler
Ivan Karp
Bernice Johnson Reagon John Tchen
Carlos Velez-Ibanez

<<<Page: 57>>>

Harry Jackson Co-Chairperson
Julia Langdon Co-Chairperson
Grace Tull
Staff Assistant to the Council
Lorie Aceto Martha Anderson Donna Ari
Vicki Avera Joanna Banks Arthur Breton Betty Belanus Dee Bennett Dorothy Blaska Mary Case
Linda Chick
Pat Chieffo Diane Cook-Lee Ginny Cornett William Cox Bruce Craig
zed David Georgina de Alba Betty Derbyshire Mary Dyer
Fran Feldman Zora Felton Cynthia Field Karen Fort
Tom Freudenheim Cristina Garcia Amy Gearin
Mary Gooden
Elaine Heuman Gurian
Ruth Hill Jo Hinkel Judith Houston
Adrian Malone, Chairman Ann Bay
Edward Bastian
Robert Dierker
Jane Glaser
Madeleine Jacobs
Paul Johnson
Jeffrey LaRiche
Harry Jackson Teresa Johnson Eileen Jones Peter Kibbee Julia Langdon Betty Lathern Ted Lawson
Hilde Lee
Tom Lowderbaugh Eleanor McMillan John Meehan Carolyn Mills Susan Mond Lauranne Nash Lucia Pierce Alan Postlethwaite Argelis Roman John Rumm Barbara Russell Magda Schremp James Sims
Lisa Stevenson Theodore Taranovski Cheryl Taylor Rae Thompson Marjorie Turgel Wilcomb Washburn Jeanne Zanke
Felix Lowe Arthur Molella Marc Pachter Bernice Reagon Ralph Rinzler Michael Robinson Stanwyn Shelter Janet Solinger Tom Wolf

<<<Page: 58>>>

Chairman
Vice Chairman Secretary
Assistant Secretary Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
James M. Beggs
Denton Blair
Mario H. Boiardi Philip S. Bowie Clarence Brown
I. Townsend Burden, III George Bush
Thomas J. Camp, Jr. Erank B.-Clay Lloyd.£E.,.Cilayton Richard Cobb
Robert Collier
Thomas Edward Crocker Philip S. Dickson Adrian Fisher
Dielle Fleischmann Rockwood Foster Orville L. Freeman John W. Gill
William. T.. Hamilton, : Jr.
Walter J. Hodges Walter Innis
Donald W. Jeffries Clinton W. Kelly, III William Kent
Robert H. Koehler Monroe Leigh
Wendell Lund
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Ms.
Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs.
1988-1989
Robert Reed Gray Domenico De Sole George W. Jones
James K. Mitchell John Schenck Voorhees Lucien Kinsolving
William S. Mailliard Alexander M. Maish Forrest Es. Mars, Jr. David E. McGiffert David H. McKillop Donald Notman Lawrence Bruce Olds Daniel Oliver
Dudley Owen
Thomas J. Owen
James R. Patton, Jr. John Pflieger
Thomas Malcolm Price S. Dillon ‘Ripley Robert E. Rogers
Peter Talbot Russell Guy Thomas Steuart, II William S. Stuckey, Jr.
Harriet H. Sweeney
Robert D. van Roijen Robert M. Waggaman Charles Swan Weber Edmund Wellington, Jr. Richard T. West
T. Ames Wheeler
Byron R. White
Philip C. White Robert S. Wilkinson Thomas B. Wilner

<<<Page: 59>>>

Mrs. Gay F. Wray, Chairman Mr. Philip F. Anschutz
Mr. George B. Bingham, Jr.
Mr. W. J. Bowen
Mr. Charles L. Brown
Mr. Dan W. Burns
Mr. Frank T. Cary
Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr. Mr. Ivan Chermayeff
Mr. Jeffrey A. Cole
Mr. Thomas G. Cousins
Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr. Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mrs. Robert Donner
Mr. James H. Evans
Mrs. Robert Reed Gray
Mr. Peter E. Haas
Hon. Ulrice-St. Clair Haynes,
Mr. Gerald D. Hines
Mr. Frank W. Hoch
Mr. S. Charles Kemp Honorary Members
Mr. William S. Anderson
Mr. Richard P. Cooley
Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III
Hon. Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin Hon. William A. Hewitt Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.
Mr. Thomas M. Keresey
Mr. Robert V. Lindsay
Mr. Howard M. Love
Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan
Mr. Antony M. Merck
Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan
Mr. John W. Morrison
Mr. Charles H. Murphy, dr. Mr. Jack S. Parker
Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker
Dr. Alvin N. Puryear
Mrs. John D. Rockefeller IV Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer
Mr. Charles W. Schmidt Dr. Ivan Selin
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman Mrs. James M. Walton Mr. John C. Whitehead Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff Mr. Seymour H. Knox III Mr. Lewis A. Lapham Hon. George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra D. O'Connor Mr. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr. Hon. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Ellen Sprouls Chairperson Janice Kaplan Vice-Chair Lauranne Nash Secretary Ann Kaupp Treasurer Mariam Weissman Historian Kathleen Baxter Liz Bettis
Ann Bissell
John Cobert Montrose Cones Stephanie Deeley Nancy Fuller Freida Hancock Johanna Humphrey Frances Jones Margaret Santiago Katherine Sprague

<<<Page: 60>>>

Mrs. George Bush
Mrs. Ronald Reagan
Mrs. Jimmy Carter
Mrs. Gerald R. Ford OFFICERS
Ralph P. Davidson, Chairman
Senator James A. McClure, Vice Chairman
Leonard L. Silverstein, Vice Chairman
Henry Strong, Vice Chairman Jean Kennedy Smith, Secretary
Joe LB. Allbritton Philip F. Anschutz
Mrs. Bennett Archambault Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Mrs. William Cafritz Ralph P. Davidson
June Oppen Degnan
Kenneth Duberstein
James H. Evans
Robert Fryer
Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Caroline Rose Hunt
Mrs. Earle M. Jorgensen Donald M. Koll
Melvin R. Laird
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
Charlotte Woolard,
Assistant Secretary
Henry Strong, Acting Treasurer Harry ‘C:’ McPherson; (Ir. ; General Counsel
William Becker,
Associate Counsel
Mrs. J. Willard Marriott Dina Merrill
Joan Mondale
Gerald M. Rafshoon
Mrs. Abraham A. Ribicoff Leonard L. Silverstein Jean Kennedy Smith
Roger B. Smith
Dennis Stanfill
Roger L. Stevens
Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss Henry Strong
Lew R. Wasserman
Charles Z. Wick
Louis Sullivan, Secretary
of Health and Human Services Lauro F. Cavazos, Secretary
of Education Bruce Gelb, Director,
U.S. Information Agency Senator Edward M. Kennedy Senator James A. McClure Representative Joseph
M. McDade Representative Charles Wilson
Representative Sidney R. Yates
Marion.:S. Barry,.. Mayor, District of Columbia
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution James H. Billington, Librarian of Congress
J. Carter Brown, Chairman, Commission of Fine Arts
James M. Ridenour, Director, National Park Service

<<<Page: 61>>>

Senator George J. Mitchell
FOUNDING CHAIRMAN Roger L. Stevens
HONORARY TRUSTEES Mrs. Albert Lasker Ralph E. Becker Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Paul Woodard, Director, D.C. Department of Recreation
Mrs. Je Cliftord Folger J. William Fulbright
General Trustees
Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman John R. Stevenson
Ruth Carter Stevenson
Robert H. Smith
Alexander M. Laughlin
Trustees Ex Officio
William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States James A. Baker III, Secretary of State
Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury
Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian
Institution
Honorary Trustee, Paul Mellon
Board of Trustees
William J. Baroody, Jr., Chairman Dwayne O. Andreas, Vice Chairman Robert McC Adams
James A. Baker, III
Theodore C. Barreaux
James H. Billington
Lynne V. Cheney
Bruce S. Gelb
Gertrude Himmelfarb Max M. Kampelman
J. Willard Marriot, Jr. John S. Reed
Louis W. Sullivan
John H. Sununu
Robert H. Tuttle
Don W. Wilson

<<<Page: 62>>>

9r6'L00'I €L9'L CLO'8Z 0 LISI bs CCL OPE 966't8 0 joquiaidas TZ¢'006'I 6S9'8 LST8E 0 P6L'8rO'l 9L9'CL9 Se6 OE 0 : isndny CLUb67'7 Csr {rece 0 LL8'ES7'I 181878 687'F9I 0 Ainge €7h'169'T 666 01 TLO'TE 0 CLb‘906 Corso TIP‘LZI 0 oune 8r0'9L9'T 8s0'7I PLO'CE 0 PLe'ZI8 7S8'O0L OELIl 0 Ae; PSULI6'T 860'LI I89'1T€ 0 C7h'EL6 TIS PL 8er'0sl 0 judy 71S S8S'T 999'6 709'9Z 0 CI8'S7L 1€9°669 86L'tZ1 0 yoey] 8ZL'SLO SOPr'L CELE 0 8C8'88Z OL8'88Z €78'8¢ 0 Avenigo. 6IZ TOL trL'9 brO'be 0 CCC 90 9Lb'867 pe9o'cs 0 Asenueg 6861 969'098 9b7'6 €7r'9r 0 LLUCLE OL8‘6bE 088'78 0 JIqQUadI] 686'S90'T £c0'OI aaas 0 L7S'86P Chr 6cb 797'S6 0 JaquidAON €LS‘O€E'T L711 OOT6E 0 Thb'699 I8ULLb 6LS‘CEl 0 19Q019O RR Maye
WesJjodg Wy jo lunosnyy duping suIpying sulpying
Mayen pue wiv Aaye9 aoeds ALONSI salysnpuy uonnnsuy s URIUOSYNWS IYI OF SIOUSIA [ENPIAIPUL JO JaquINnU yeNnjoe ay) UEY) JOYsIY st pue ‘syUNOD JONSIA UNIsNU JO dJedaIdde OY) siuasaidas ‘as0josay) ‘JeIO) pueId BYP “SOW JeJDAIS poyUNOD aie Ay) ‘skep AINNIaSUOD JeJZAIS UO SWNISMU sNOeA O} Od JO ‘ARJUN Joy) UO wnasnw 9U0 UeYy) BOW IpNyoU! SIONISIA AUB DOUIG “WNISNW WeYI OF SJOPISIA JENPIAIPUL JO JOQUINU BY) WIYos WnosnW YdeI JOJ SIO. “ALON
Z6b'bSb 090°LZ LOC'TL 6LL' Ib ZL9‘9Z S8B'PLZ Lv8's 7887 saquiaidas ZLE‘678 66U' UP S7E OO! SULTS 78S‘LE 661'9LS trr's £08'S isndny PBL'TSO'T 8LS‘6b BIZ IZ €L6'b9 OLB'IS OS7'6PL 9716 69L'S Aine £9L'EL8 OOTP 776 101 ELS'LE SOLU COP‘6L9 78791 OLI'b oune LOU'Ur8 LLUUW Los 1 £99'tp 996'S I 9£9'019 gsr'ol 9LE'T kewl 906'786 ZS1'8b LIT 7 BSP 0S 6LE PZ ELU PIL L79'€7 0 \yidy 6E£'S99 60E'SE 880'16 SOC TE BI7'81 £16 98b 180'% Z9E youey| PIL'OE BLS‘SZ €S7'8P 1Zp'lZ LLE'El CIB‘I7Z 877'L 760°C Areniqa.J b09'brE 60S'97 cev' ES €1S'7 O7L'I1 078617 £9t'6 prr'l Arenue 6861 L96' bbb 766'S7 BSL'IS £06°€Z L7S‘8E 699'S6Z 67P'6 £6 Joquis00q pI9'EEs 68L'LZ ZS'bL OvZ7'LZ 907'6S LSL'SEE LU6 ere JIQUIIAON 6LI'819 P9E‘67 LOL'€6 180'67 ILL‘OS 687 COP £th's pLr'c J9QOVO a ne es ee JOIUT)D wnosnp wnhosny] Whosny wnosny wnosnyy Asaye Kaydiy AJONSIHY WIMoH = pooLOqudIaN SjeioL Wy ubLyy WIOYYSHH Jayyoes uoIIG ‘S ubNLOWYy -19d009 elsooeuy = YU
(Val

<<<Page: 63>>>

Appendix 3
Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1989
Listed immediately below in the first section of this Appendix, under the heading “‘Academic and Research Training Appointments,” are Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellows, Graduate Student Fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awardees and participants in special programs. This list was compiled by the Office of Fellowships and Grants. Interns, other academic appointees, and scholarly visitors are listed in the second section under the heading “Internships and Other Appointments.” These entries were submitted by the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center.
The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appointees are provided access to the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources. The persons—listed by bureau or office—in this Appendix began their residencies between October 1, 1988, and September 30, 1989, and have been in residence for three months or longer. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awardees and participants in special programs are so listed. The institution where each received, or expects to receive, a degree or the home university or institution is listed for each Fellow or Visitor. A brief description of the project undertaken at the Smithsonian is included where appropnate. The Fellow’s or Visitor’s Smithsonian advisor is also listed.
Hilde'Hein, Visiting Scholar, ‘University of Michigan.“ "The Museum Experience: Reflections on Literature and Reality," with Zahava Doering, from September 1 to December 15, 1989.
Sandra Herbert, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Brandeis University. "Charles Darwin's Geology," with Marc Rothenberg and Arthur Molella, from February 1, 1989 to January 31, 1990.
Hugh Slotten, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin, Madison. “Reform, Patronage, and Politics in American Science: Alexander Dallas Bache and the U.S. Coast Survey," with Marc Rothenberg and Nathan Reingold, from september 1, 1989 toc:August 312; 1990.

<<<Page: 64>>>

G. Agoramoorthy, Visiting Scientist,, University ‘of Jodhpur) aiA Field Study to Investigate the Social Interactions within Invaded Groups of Red Howler Monkeys (Alouatta seniculus) in Venezuela," with Rudy Rudran, from April 15 to September 307, L9/89-.
Charles Menzel, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Davis. “Experiments on Spatial Orientation in Leontopithecus Group," with Benjamin Beck, from September LyrikSe97 tovAugust:3b, 1990.
Brian Miller, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wyoming. "Predator Avoidance and Hunting Ability Behavior for Reintroduction of Captive-Raised Black-Footed Ferrets," with Christen Wemmer, from June 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990.
William Rall, Research Development Fellow, State University of New York, New Paltz. "Basic and Applied Studies on the Cryopreservation of Gametes and Embryos from Endangered Wild Animals," with David Wildt, from March 1, 1989 to Maren. 1 4 1992.
Steven Thompson, Research Development Fellow, University of California, Irvine. "Evolution and Variation of Endothermy in Mammals: Thermoregulation, Locomotion, and Reproductive Consequences," with Devra Kleiman, from January 1, 1989 to July 1, 1990.
John Thorbjarnarson, Visiting Scientist, University of Florida. "Population Ecology of the Spectacled Caman on Hato Masaguaral, Venezuela," with Dale Marcellini, from January 1 to July 31, 1989.
Samuel Wasser, Research Development Fellow, University of Washington. "“Excreted Steroids in Mammalian Feces," with David Wildt, from January 1, 1989 to January 1, 1991.
Eric Wikramanayake, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Davis. “Thermal and Reproductive Biology of Varnus Salvator and Varnus Bengalensis," with John Seidensticker, from January 1, 1989 to January 1, 1990.
Javier Alcolea, Visiting Student, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid. "Circumstellar Envelopes of Stars and SiO Masers," with James Moran, from July 15 to October 31, 1989.
Gerald Bottrell, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Georgia. "Investigations of the Adiabatic Approach and its Application to Other Systems," with Alexander Dalgarno, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

<<<Page: 65>>>

Andre Crusius-Watzel, Visiting Scientist, University of Bonn. "Radiative Transfer in Relativistic Plasma," with James Moran, from August 15, 1989 to September 30, 1990.
Ilya Fabrikant, Visiting Scientist, Latvian State University. "Low-Energy Electron Scattering by Highly Polarizable Targets and Photodetachment of Negative Ions in the
Presence of External Fields," with Alexander Dalgarno, from
Aprin’ i to July, 31.7 31969:
Daniel Gomez, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universidad de Buenos Aires. "Dynamical Processes in the Solar Corona," with Petrus Martens, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.
Xiaofeng Han, Predoctoral Fellow, Harbin Institute of Technology.
"Measurements and Analysis of Unknown Atomic and Molecular Data, | with Irwin Shapiro, from October 2, 1989 to September 30, 1990.
Andreas Heithausen, Visiting Scientist, University of Bonn. "Galactic Cirrus Clouds: A New Class of Interstellar Clouds?" with Patrick Thaddeus, from-February 1 to September 30, 1989.
WilliamsHofimann, “Visiting Scientist. "interpretation "of Spectral Line Data: A Probe of the Physical Conditions in Circumstellar Material and Star Forming Regions," with Giovanni Fazio, from February 1 to June 15, 1989.
Pawan “Kumar, Visiting Scientist) California Institute. of Technology. "The Detection of Stellar and Solar Oscillations," with Robert Noyes, from October 1, 1988 to March 11, 1989.
Juan Muzzio, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, La Plata University. "The Disintegration of Satellite Galaxies," with Myron Lecar; fromJanuary 1 to March 31-,*:1989:.
Birgitta Nordstrom, Visiting Scientist, Copenhagen University Observatory. “Investigations of the Structure of the
Galactic Disk," with David Latham, from December 1, 1988 to
June30;/-19'89'.
Marco Romoli, Visiting Scientist, University of Firenze. "The Development of Instrumentation for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory's UVCS/Sotto Project," with John Kohl from April "3, "2969 to October 2, 1990
Shen Wei, Visiting Scientist, Shaanxi Astronomical Observatory. “Hydrogen Maser Frequency Standards," with Robert Vessot, from January 1 to September 30, 1989.
Andrzej Soltan, Visiting Scientist, Warsaw University. "An Investigation of X-ray Properties of Extra-Galactic Objects," with Harvey Tananbaum, from July 1 to November 14 1989.

<<<Page: 66>>>

John Stanford, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Georgia. "A Study of the Scattering of Heavy Ion Projectiles by Atoms," with Alexander Dalgarno, from September 1, 1989 to August 31y7,91990;:
Tang Guoqiang, Visiting Scientist, Chalmers University of Technology. "Differential VLBI Measurements of the Quasar. 4039.25," with Irwin Shapiro, from June 15 to September 28, 1989.
Sanjay Wagh, International Exchange Visitor, University of Poona. "CCD Studies of Active Galaxies and Quasars," with Martin Elvis, from March 15 to September 15, 1989.
John Wardle, Visiting Scientist, University of Manchester. "Dual Wavelength, Polarization Sensitive VLBI Experiment," with James Moran, from May 1 to September 30, 1989.
Ann Zabludoff, Visiting Student, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “The Complex Dynamics of Large Structures, Clusters of Galaxies, and Superclusters," with M.J. Geller, from October 1, 1988..to -August. 31,1989.
Shiyue Cai, International Exchange Visitor, Zhejiang Agricultural University. "The Impact of Acid Atmospheric Deposition in the Physiology of the Root Hairs of Higher Plants," with David Correll, from March 29 to September 28, 1989.
Felix Dapare Dakora, Visiting Scientist, University of Western Australia. "The Effect of Elevated CO2 Concentration in Nitrogen Metabolism of Marsh Plants in Natural Ecosystems of the Chesapeake Bay," with Bert Drake, from December 1, 1989 to November 30, 1990.
Lucia Dillenburg, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. “Physiological Ecology of Vine and Tree Competition," with Dennis Whigham, from November 14, 1988 to May 13, 1990.
Joseph Dineen, Jr., Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. “Investigation of Barnacle Larval Settlement Relevant to Adult Zonation in the Chesapeake Bay," with Anson Hines, from October 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990.
Anna Dittel, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. "Microhabitat Selection for Molting by Blue Crab Juveniles (Callinectes sapidus) in the Rhode River Estuary, Chesapeake Bay," with Anson Hines, From September 10, 1989 to September 9, 1990.

<<<Page: 67>>>

David Lawlor, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of London. “Effects of Elevated Carbon Dioxide on the Structure, Composition, and Photosynthetic Function of Scirpus in a Salt Marsh Community," with Bert Drake, from April 1 to October 31, 1990).
Junda Lin, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. "Effects of Food Supply on Macoma Balthica's Feeding Mode, and Its Subsequent Susceptibility to Predation," with Anson Hines, from August 14, 1989 to AUGUSTE 7.019910:
Nancy Staub, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. "Patterns of Sexual Dimorphism and their Ecological Consequences in Plethodontid Salamanders," with James Lynch, from April 3, 1989 to April 2, 1990.
Panchabi Vaithiyanathan, Postdoctoral Fellow, Jawaharlal Nehru University, India. "Factors Controlling the Release of Phosphorus from Sediments to Water in the Estuarine Region: A Case Study of the Rhode River Estuary," with David Correll, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.
Joseph T. A. Verhoeven, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands. "Nitrogen Cycling along an Environmental Gradient: Mineralization in Relation to Litter Quality and Redox Conditions,“ with Dennis Whigham, from January 15 to December 15, 1989.
Lisa’ K. Wagner, Visiting Scientist, University of California,
Berkeley. "Regulation of Fruit and Seed Production in Hibiscus moscheutos (Malvaceae): Role of Resources and Predation,” with Dennis Whigham, from June 14 to September 12, L9ES.
Zhigang Wang, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cambridge. "Population Ecology of Epifagus Virginiana," with Dennis Whigham, from October 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990.
Jess Zimmerman, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. "The Function of-Storage ‘Organs’in theiOrchid ‘Tipularia iscolor," with Dennis Whigham, from August 1, 1989 to July ae a IC os
Jacqueline Belwood, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Florida. "The Role of Tremulation in the Mating Behavior of Neotropical Pseudophylline Katydids (Insecta: Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae);" “with Eqbert Leivgh,.“from March 2, 1989 to February 28, 1990.

<<<Page: 68>>>

Jeffrey Brawn, Postdoctoral Fellow, Northern Arizona University. "The Influences of Physical Isolation on Geographic Variation within Selected Bird Species on Panama's Pearl Islands," with Harilaos Lessios, from January 1, 1989 to January 1, 1990.
Laurel Collins, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Effects of Environmental Change on the Shallow-Water Benthic Foraminifera of Panama," with Jeremy Jackson, from October 1, 1988 to May 30, 1990.
Timothy Collins, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Rates of Molecular Evolution in Marine Gastropods," with Harilaos Lessios, from May 25, 1989 to May 24, 1990.
Kevin Hogan, Visiting Scientist, University of Illinois. "Ecophysiology of Geographic Ally Wide-Ranging Plant Species," with Alan Smith, from December 1, 1988 to January 32.7. 19'90.
Roberto Ibanez, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Connecticut. "Synchronized Calling in Centronella granulosa and Smilisca sila (Amphibia, Anura)," with A. Stanley Rand, from September 1, 1989 to December 31, 1990.
Kenneth Johnson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. “Testing for Natural Selection on Corals: Patterns of Skeletal Morphology, Fertility, and Genetic Variation in Natural Populations of Manicina Areolata (Scleractinia)," with Nancy Knowlton, from October 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990.
Kaoru Kitajima Okada, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois. "A Community-Wide Study of Tropical Tree Seedlings: the Ecological Consequences of the Structure/Physiology Relationships of Cotyledons," with Alan Smith, from June l, 1989 to May 31, 1990.
Noris Salazar, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Alberta. "A Systematic Revision of the Neotropical Species of Octoblepharum, a Pantropical Moss Genus with Ecological and Reproductive Biology Studies of Two Species in Panama," with Alan Smith, from March 1, 1989 to March 1, 1990.
Ellen Smith, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Washington. "The Evolution of Parental Care: A Multidisciplinary Approach in Some Dendrobatid Frogs,” with A. Stanley Rand, from June i, M1989) to.May 31,1990.
Hugh Sweatman, Visiting Scientist, Macquaire University. "An Investigation of Sea Grass Beds as Habitats for Coral Reef Fishes," with Ross Robertson, from November 15, 1988 to September 30, 1990.

<<<Page: 69>>>

Ernesto Weil, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin. "Morphologic and Genetic Variation of Porites (Anthozoa, Scleractinia) Across the Isthmus of Panama," with Nancy Knowlton, from June 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990.
Massoud Azarnoush, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Los Angeles. "1l) Excavations at Hajibad, the Final Report, 2) Pre-Islamic Architecture of Iran, and 3) the Chronology of the Kusann-Sasanians," with Ann Gunter, from August l, ESS CoOn July 30) uO
Akiko Murakata, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, George Washington
University. "Charles L. Freer and Japanese Art," with Wilcomb Washburn and Ann Yonemura, from July 1 to September 30), 1989’.
Wheeler Thackston, Jr., Rockefeller Fellow, Harvard University. Research on Old and New English Translation of Chaghatay Turkish and Persian Texts of the Emperor Babur's Memoires, with Milo Beach, from June 1 to September 1, 1989.
Stephen Collins, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, John F. Kennedy University. “Changes in Crystallinity of Constrained Fibers Due to the Presence of Moisture," with Mary Ballard, from August 15, 1989 to August 14, 1990.
Robert Henrickson, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Toronto. “Organization of Ceramic Production in the Godin III Tradition of Central Western Iran, 2600-1400 B.C.," with M. James Blackman and Pamela Vandiver, from September 15, 1989 to December 14, 1990.
Julie Lauffenburger, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, Buffalo State College. "The Effects of Past Treatments on Metal Objects and How it Has Affected the Analysis of Museum Objects," with Carol Grissom, from September 18, 1989 to September 17, 1990.
Janet Schrenk, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota. "Technical Analysis of Benin Bronzes in the National Museum of African Art,“ with David Von’ Endt,: from April 1; 1989 .to March 32) *~19'9°0'.
Yoonjoo L. Strumfels, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, University of Delaware. "Conservation Problems with Paper and Photographs," with Antoinette Dwan, from January 3, 1989 to January 2, 1990.

<<<Page: 70>>>

Aslihan Yener, Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "The Archaeometallurgy of Ancient Anatolia," with Martha Goodway, from January 1 to December 31, 1989.
Sarah Dove, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, Newcastle Polytechnic. "The History of Use, Manufacture, and Other Factors that Contribute to the Uniqueness of an Object and/or Problems of Deterioration,” with Konstanze Bachmann, from guly® 1, °21989 to..June’ 30,,..1990'.
Esther Methe, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, University of Alberta. “Analysis of a Select Group of Sixth to Tenth Century Middle Eastern Textiles," with Lucy Commoner, from October 3, 1988 to October 2, 1989.
Lynne C. Cooke, Postdoctoral Fellow, University College. "Developments in American Sculpture c. 1968-1988," with Ned Ritkin, ‘from October 1,°1989.to March, 31, 1990;
Roberta Tarbell, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. “The Sculpture of Seymour Lipton: Aesthetic, Iconographic, Contextual, and Technical Considerations," with Valerie Fletcher, from January 3 to June 3, 1989.
Tami Davis Biddle, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Air Power Doctrine, Strategic Bombing, and the Development of Air Force Strategy from the Interwar Years to the Early Cold War Years," with Dominick Pisano, from January 1 to December 31, 1989.
Ron Dick, International Fellow, Royal College of Defence Studies. "Fifty Years of Jet Aviation," with Martin Harwit and Von Hardesty, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1990.
Daniel Ford, A. Verville Fellow, University of New Hampshire. "Japanese Army Air Operations in Burma and Western China, December 1941 July 1942," with Donald Lopez and Robert Mikesh, from July 10, 1989 to July 9, 1990.
Randall Forsythe, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "Tectonic Studies in the Martian Equatorial
Transition Zone: A Search for Ancient Lithospheric Mobility," with James Zimbelman, from May 15, 1989 to June 30,1990.
David Hallam, International Fellow, Canberra College of Advanced Education. "The State of Modern Metal Corrosion and the Conservation of Large Aircraft," with Robert Mikesh, from February 1 to November 1, 1989.

<<<Page: 71>>>

Takehiko Hashimoto, Guggenheim Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "The Origin of Aerodynamics: A Comparative Approach," with John Anderson and Howard Wolko, from June 1, 1989 to March 31),.LOSIOX
Lee Kennett, Lindbergh Fellow, University of Virginia. "The History of Military Aviation in World War I," with Donald Lopez, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.
David Naylor, Visiting Scientist, The University of Calgary. “Laboratory Development of a Metal Mesh Testing Facility," with Howard” Smith) fromuguly 25° 1969: to: July 1) 29907
Michael Neufeld, Postdoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. “Peenemunde and Wernher von Braun," with Joseph Tatarewicz, from August 15, 1989 to February 14, 1990.
Yuri Salnikov, International Fellow, Soviet State Cinema Institute. "The History of Soviet-American Relations in Aviation," with Von Hardesty and Cathleen Lewis, from February 3 to November 2, 1989.
Mary Nooter, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "Luba Art and Statehood: Political Symbols and Strategies in a Central African Kingdom," with Roy Sieber, from May 15, 1989 to May 14, 1990.
Nkiru Nzegwu, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Ottawa. "Looking Through African Eyes," with Roy Sieber, from January=15 "tor April 15,1969".
Karen Blair, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York, Buffalo. "American Associations of Women Painters, 18701930," with Lillian Miller, from October 3, 1988 to September 2, 1989.
Nicholas Capasso, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. "The National Vietnam Veterans Memorial and the Impact of PostMinimalism on American War Memorials," with George Gurney, from June “1989 “to May —31,'"1990:.
Jane Clark, Visiting Scholar, University of London. "Landscape and National Identity: A Comparative Study of Painting in Nineteenth Century America and Australia," with Lois Fink, from* May 1, °1989 to June”15,°1990.
Nancy Corwin, James Renwick Senior Fellow, Kansas City Art institute: “A-Critical’ History of Fiber Art as Part of the Post World War II Crafts Revival in America," with Michael Monroe, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1990.

<<<Page: 72>>>

Eleanor Jones, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "The Language of Art: Landscape Oil Sketches in America, 18301870," with William Truettner, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989.
Matthew Arvid Kangas, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Oxford University. "Two Aspects of American Ceramics: Sculpture, Text," with Michael Monroe, from October], (1989 .to May..3ly 1990.
Jonathan Katz, Predoctoral Fellow, Northwestern University. "Sexuality in the Art of Jasper Johns and Robert : Rauschenberg, 1957-1962," with Virginia Mecklenburg and Harry Rand, from February 1 to December 9, 1989.
Patricia Malarcher, James Renwick Graduate Fellow, New York University. "An Investigation of Critical Approaches to Art in Craft Materials," with Michael Monroe, from January 1 to September 30, 1989.
Janet Marstine, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pittsburgh. “Themes of Labor and Industry in American Mural Painting, 1893-1914," with Richard Murray, from March 1, 1989 to February 28, 1990.
David McCarthy, Visiting Student, University of Delaware. "Compromised Positions: Situations for the Nude in American Art of the 1960s and 1970s," with Virginia Mecklenburg, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.
Frederick Moffatt, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Chicago. "George G. Barnard's Bronze Statue of Abraham Lincoln," with Lois. Fink, from July 1, 1989 to. June. 30; 1990.
Michael Plante, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University. “American Painting and Postwar Paris, 1945-1956," with Harry Rand, from Aprid 25,. 1989. to April 14,1990.
Kimn Carlton-Smith, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. "Cultural Democracy and Constructions of Community," with Charles McGovern and Barbara Melosh, from July 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990.
Melinda Chateauvert, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. “Marching Together: Woman of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters,” with Edith Mayo, from September 1, 1989 to May 31, 1990.
Marsha Darling, Faculty Fellow, Duke University. "The Evolution
of Images of Black and White Women in Hollywood Cinema," with Spencer Crew, from June 1 to September 30, 1989.

<<<Page: 73>>>

Kathryn Fuller, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "A Nation of Movie-Goers: The American Middle Class Movie Audience, 1914-1934," with Charles McGovern, from September 11, 1989 to September 10, 1990.
Stuart Goosman, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Washington. "The Ethnomusicology of Black Group Vocal Harmony, 19451960," with Bernice Reagon, from July 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990.
Robert La Bret Hall, Postdoctoral Fellow, Florida State University. “The Atlantic Slave Trade and the Genesis of American Culture, 1526-1807," with Spencer Crew, from June e969 to May: 3a"): 1990".
Delores Harvey, Faculty Fellow, University of Maryland. "A Study of the Lesser Known Abolitionists in Northeastern Cities," with Spencer Crew and James Horton, from June 15 to September 14, 1989.
Katherine Jellison, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. "Choice and Change in the Heartland: Farm Women and Technology, 1913-1963," with Pete Daniel, from June 1 to November 30, 1989.
Jeffrey Lena, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. "Noah Webster and the Development of American Culture in the Early Republic," with Keith Melder, from October. 1) -1968 (to:.June 30,1989.
Mary Beth Pudup, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. "Rural Resources and Subsistence Livelihoods in Appalachia,” with Pete Daniel, from August 15, 1989 to August 14, 1990.
Thompson Smith, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Ecological and Cultural History of the Flathead Indian Reservation Area, 1850-1940," with Rayna Green, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.
Rudi Volti, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Rice University. "The Development and Triumph of the Four-Stroke Internal Combustion Engine: Two Studies," with Robert Post, from September 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990.
Shirley Wajda, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "Dramatis Personae: The Re-Presentation of American Victorians in Turn-of-the-Century Comic and Genre Stereoviews," with Pete Daniel, from October 10, 1988 to March; 15-,719892
Kimberley Webber, University of Sydney. "The American Influence on the Social Construction of the Australian Kitchen, 18501930," with Rodris Roth, from January 1 to December 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 74>>>

Xiao-huang Yin, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Dreams from Gold Mountain: Chinese American Literature and its Socio-Cultural Context," with Gary Kulik, from September 1 to November 30, 1989.
Cleber Alho, Short-Term Visitor, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. "The Vertebrate Scientific Collection of the University of Brasilia and its Science Museum," with Charles Handley, from April 1 to July 31, 1989.
Julie Ambler, Visiting Scientist, Texas A&M University. "Life History of Dioithona oculata Occuring Near Red Mangrove Prop Roots," with Frank Ferrari, from December 1, 1988 to June: 15, 1989.
Altair Barbosa, Visiting Scientist, Universidade Catolica de
Goias. "The Pre-Ceramic Period of the Central Brazilian Plains," with Betty Meggers, from June 1, 1989 to May 31, 1839:9'25
Paula Bienenfeld, Visiting Scientist, State University of New York, Binghamton. "Analysis of the Community Structure of a Prehistoric Chiefdom in Eastern North America," with Bruce: Smith, from August -1,,.1989 to duly.31) 4298.1.
Juliet Brodie, Postdoctoral Fellow, University College, Galway. "An Investigation into the Systematics and Life History of Members of the Genus Liagora (Rhodophyta) from the Caribbean," with James Norris, from September 18, 1989 to September 17, 1990.
Robyn Burnham, Visiting Scientist, University of Washington. "Seeing the Forest in the Litter: A New Method of Inferring the Structure of Extinct Vegetation from Fossils," with Scott Wing, from January 1 to December 31, 1989.
Jeanne Chaussonnet, Predoctoral Fellow, Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris. "Ethnic Processes and Political Development Among Siberian and Northern Canadian Peoples in the Twentieth Century," with William Fitzhugh, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.
James Clark, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Chicago. "Phylogenetic Relationships of Eusuchian Crocodylians," with Nicholas Hotton, from April 10, 1989 to April 9, 1990.
James Cobb, Visiting Scientist, St. Andrews University. "An Electrophysiological and Behavioral Investigation of the Ophiuroid Photoreceptor System," with David Pawson, from February .1 to :May (1, -1989:.

<<<Page: 75>>>

Bryan Danforth, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. "Phylogeny of the Macrotera Group of Perdita (Hymenoptera: Andreneidae) with Special Reference to the Evolution of Male Head Allometry," with Ronald McGinley, from March l, 1989 to.April..30)) 199.0).
Ferial Deer Skye, Academic Intern, University of South Dakota. Menominee Tribal Catalogue, with JoAllyn Archambault, from July3 to October 27,1989.
A. Dilly Devi, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delhi. "The Evolution of Culture in an Island Society: An Ecological Approach," with Paul :-Taylor, from: June.1.,, 1989 to; May 31, 9IS;0%
Walentina De Weerdt, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Amsterdam. “Taxonomy, Phylogeny, and Cladistic Biogeography of Caribbean Chalinidae (Porifera, Haplosclerida)," with Klaus Ruetzler, from October 10, 1988 to; January) -7,. 1990).
Joseph Dishta, Native American Community Scholar, Pueblo of Zuni Job Training Partnership. A Tribal Catalogue of Zuni Manuscripts, with JoAllyn Archambault, from March 20 to November 10, 1989.
Karen Dohm, Postdoctoral Fellow, Washington State University. "Predicting Population from Architectural Nucleation and House Size for Pueblos in the Southwestern United States," with Dennis Stanford, from December 1, 1988 to November 30, 1989.
Maria Louella Dolar, Short-Term Visitor, James Cook University. "The Biology of Philippine Marine Mammals," with James Mead, from February 1 to May 15, 1989.
George Effman, Native American Community Scholar, United South and Eastern Tribes, Inc. A Tribal Catalogue of Klamath Artifacts, with JoAllyn Archambault, from March 20 to November 10, 1989.
Aaron Ellison, Visiting Scholar, Brown University. "Potential Facilitations Between Sponges and Red Mangroves (Rhizophora mangle)," with Klaus Ruetzler, from January 1 to May 15, 179'8:97.
Per. Ericson, Visiting’ Scientist, University of:Stockholm. « “The Fossil Bird Presbyornis and its Significance to the Evolution and Systematics of Birds,” with.Storrs Olson, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.
Raymond Forster, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Otago, New Zealand. “Review of the Spider Superfamily Araneoidea," with Jonathan Coddington, from July 15 to December 15, 1989.

<<<Page: 76>>>

Amnon Freidberg, Visiting Scientist, Tel Aviv University. "Systematic Research on Old World Fruit Flies, Especially Important Pest Species of the Genera Ceratitis and Dacus," with Wayne Mathis, from October 3, 1988 to October 2, 1989.
Ronald™“Pritzsche; Visiting: Scientist: University of Californiay San Diego. "Survey of the Ichthyo Fauna of Twin Cays, Belize," with G. David Johnson, from November 1, 1988 to May 25, 1989.
Jon Gelhaus, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. "Systematics and Biogeography of the Tipula (Lunatipula) yergete Species Group (Diptera: Tipulidae)," with Wayne Mathis, from January 16, 1989 to January 15, 1990.
Marian Hansson, Visiting Scholar, University of Oklahoma. "The Kiowa at the Smithsonian or Getting the Collection Back to the People," with William Merrill, from December 1, 1988 to August 31, “1989.
Valerie Haskins, Predoctoral Fellow, Washington University. "Health and Disease of the Archaic Shell Mound Inhabitants along the Green River, Kentucky," with Donald Ortner, from March 2, 1989 to February 28, 1990.
Peter Heaney, Postdoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "XRay Powder Diffraction of Microcrystalline Silica Varieties," with Jeffrey Post, from July 24, 1989 to July 23, 1990.
Gordon Hendler, Visiting Scientist, The University of Connecticut. "An Electrophysiological and Behavioral Investigation of the Ophiuroid Photoreceptor System," with David Pawson, from February 1 to May 1, 1989.
Teruaki Ishii, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Tokyo. “Petrological and Mineralogical Studies of Modern and Ancient Submarine Arc-Volcanism and Arc-Evolution along the Hakone-Izu-Ogasawara Arc," with Richard Fiske, from June l, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
Paul Koch, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "The Effects of Weathering on the Carbon and Oxygen Isotope Composition of Bone," with Anna Kay Behrensmeyer, from September 18, 1989 to September 17, 1990.
Carey Krajewski, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin, Madison. "A Molecular Systematic Study of the Extinct Tasmanian Wolf (Marsupialia: Thylacinidae)," with Michael Braun, “from August 1,’ 1989 ‘to: July 31; 19901:
Kim Lanphear, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York, Albany. “The Health of Southern Slaves Compared to that of the Laboring Population of the Northeastern U.S.," with Douglas Owsley, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

<<<Page: 77>>>

Brian ‘Lapoint, Visiting: Scientist, University ‘of South. Florida. "The Nutrient Status and Physiological State of Macroalgae
from Low Nutrient Mangrove Ecosystem versus a High Nutrient
Mangrove Ecosystem," with Mark Littler, from January 1 to March 15, 29.8.9).
Li zhen-yu, Short-Term Visitor, Institute of Botany, Academia Sinica. “A Study of Gesneriaceae and Identification of Lentibulariaceae and Cactaceae," with Laurence Skog, from July 1 to September 30, 1989.
Richard Lowell, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Alberta. "Induced Biomechanical and Chemical Responses of Marine Macroalgae to Herbivore Damage," with Mark Littler, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989.
Gregory Mayer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Phylogeny, Geographic Variation, and the Origin of Ecomorphs in Jamaican Lizards of the Genus Anolis," with George Zug, from March 20, 1989 to March 19, 1990.
Lucile McCook, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University. "Phylogenetic Analysis of Cypripedioid and Apostasioid Orchids: A New Approach to a Major Conflict in Orchid Systematics," with Vicki Funk, from February 1, 1989 to January, 31, ,1990.
Richard, Modlin, Visiting Scientist,. University: of: Connecticut. "Swarming Dynamics and Ecology of Mysidium Species," with Frank Renranl, from January. 1 to: July cis i 1989).
Susan Nahwoosky, Visiting Scholar, Keuka College. Comanche Tribal Catalogue, with JoAllyn Archambault, from May 22 to October 6,.1989.
Yun Sil Park, Postdoctoral Fellow, Duke University. "Phylogenetic Study of Lichen Family Parmeliaceae," with Mason Hale, from: March, 1,.. 1989, to, February, ).28.):,.1990..
Thomas Parsons, Visiting Scientist, University of Washington.
"Phylogenetic Analysis of Extinct Birds Based on Nucleotide
Sequence Comparison," with Michael Braun, from January l, 1989 toSeptember 30, 1990.
Manuel L. Pescador, Faculty Fellow, Florida State University. "Systematics of the Cool-Adapted Mayflies (Ephemeroptera) of South America," with Oliver Flint, from June 12 to September 12, 1989.
Thomas Plummer, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Paleoecology and Site Formation of Kanjera, Kenya," with Richard Potts, from January 1 to December 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 78>>>

Dan Polhemus, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. “Systematics and Zoogeography of Neotropical Rhagovelia (Insecta: Hemiptera: Veliidae)," with Richard Froeschner, from December 1, 1988 to November 30, 1989.
Kenneth Rasmussen, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina, Chapel, Hill... "Marine, Biolithic, Hardgrounds. of Northern Great Bahama Bank: Genesis, Development, and Geological Significance,“ with Ian MacIntyre, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1991.
Susan Rasmussen, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. "A Balancing Act: Artistic Form and Sociopolitical Power in Tuareg Aesthetics and Cosmology," with Mary Jo Arnoldi, Prom June 1, ° 29389: to May 31. 2990.
Cynthia Rebar, Short-Term Visitor, Kansas State University. "A Study of Relative Brain Size in the New World Family of Rodents, Heteromyidae," with Don Wilson, from January 1 to May 15, 1989.
Janet Reid, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, North Carolina State University. "Copepoda (Crustacea) from Semiterrestrial Habitats in Central Brazil," with Thomas Bowman, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989.
Judith Rhymer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Florida State University. "Evolutionary Relationships in the Mallard Complex Using Restriction Enzyme Analysis of Nuclear DNA," with Michael Braun and Eugene Morton, from September 1, 1989 to August Sly AIO L
Clive Roberts, Postdoctoral Fellow, Victoria University, Wellington, New Zealand. "A Survey of the Ctenoid Scale Morphology in Percomorph Fishes and Analysis of its Phylogenetic Significance," with G. David Johnson, from March 1, 1989 to February 28, 1990.
Jorge Rodriguez, Visiting Scientist, Universidad Nacional de La Plata. “Relations between Precolumbian Cultures of North Eastern Argentina and the Tropical Lowlands to the North," with Betty Meggers, from May 1, 1989 to April 30, 1990.
Gene Sattler, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. "Breeding Introgression in Chickadee Contact Zones," with Michael Braun, from January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1990.
Patricia’ Sawaya, Visiting Student,,. University of. Cincinnati: “A Molecular Investigation of Speciation in the Chickadees
Parus carolinensis and. Parus atricapillus," with Michael Braun, from November 14, 1988 to June 13, 1990.

<<<Page: 79>>>

Ziang-qing Shao, Short-Term Visitor, Fudan University. "A Comparative Study of Crania at the Neolithic Stage in the Xinjian Uygur Autonomous Region with American White Crania and other Crania," with Douglas Ubelaker, from June 5 to September 5, 1989.
Anthony Shelton, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Oxford. "A General Ethnography of the Huichol of Northwest Mexico," with William Merrill, from March 20, 1989 to March 19, 1990's
Penelope Shepard, Visiting Student, University of Victoria. "The Presence of Chemoautotrophic Endosymbiotic Bacteria in Lucinid and Solemyid Bivalues and the Relationship of the Symbiosis to Available Sulfur Species in Sea Grass and Mangrove Habitats," with Klaus Ruetzler, from January 1 to September 30, 1989.
John “Stevely, Visiting Scientist, University of, South Florida. "Survey of the Commercial Sponge Resources of Belize," with Klaus Ruetzler, from March 1 to September 30, 1989.
Wolframe-Tertschnig, Visiting: Scientist, University .of sienna. "Distributional Ecology and Nutrition of two Sea Urchin Species in Thalassia Testudinum Sea Grass Beds at the Twin Cays Mangal System and the Adjacent Lagoon," with Klaus Ruetzler, from January 1 to March 1, 1989.
Elisabeth Tooker, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Radcliffe College. "The Smithsonian and the Anthropological Community in the Nineteenth Century," with William Sturtevant, from September 1, 1989 to February 28, 1990.
Charles Wahle, Visiting Scientist, Johns Hopkins University. "The Functional Morphology of Octocoral Spicules at Carrie Bow Cay," with Klaus Ruetzler, from February 1 to September 3077 1989'.
Banyue Wang, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Academia Sinica, China. “The Intercontinental Relationships between the Holarctic Oligocene," with Robert Emry, from September 13, 1989 to September 12, 1990.
Susan Weller, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. "Revision of Dasylophia and Betola with an Assessment of Phylogenetic Relationships within the Subfamily Notodontinae (Lepidoptera: Noctuoidea: Notodontidae)," with Mary Mickevich and Robert Robbins, from September 1, 191389" Cor August 731,’ 1990.
Richard Werbner, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Manchester University. "Person, Knowledge, and Evil in Divination," with William Merrill, from September 1, 1989 to August 31, 1990.

<<<Page: 80>>>

Brian Wiegmann, Curatorial Fellow, University of Maryland. "A Phylogenetic Revision of the Family Atelestidae with a Proposed Origin of the Cyclorrhaphous Diptera," with Wayne Mathis, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1990.
Colin Woodroffe, Visiting Scientist, Cambridge University. "Mapping of Central Belize Barrier Reef from Satellite Imagery," with Klaus Ruetzler, from January 1 to September 30:7; L989.
Rose Wyaco, Native American Community Scholar, Zuni Archives Program. Zuni Tribal Catalogue, with JoAllyn Archambault, from October 31, 1988 to October 18, 1989
Qui-Yun Xiang, Short-Term Visitor, Chongshan University of Gwangzhou. "A Comparative Study of the Cornus Species of Asia and the Cornus Species of North America," with Richard Eyde, from April 1 to June 30, 1989.
Man-Miao Yang, Curatorial Fellow, University of Maryland. "Problems in the Evolution of Behavior in the Homoptera," with Jonathan Coddington, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1990.
Melinda Zeder, Visiting Scientist, University of Michigan. "Powers Phase: Faunal Analysis," with Bruce Smith, from August 14, 1989 to August 13, 1990.
Karen Zeller, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Cincinnati. "The Phylogenetic Relationship of Humans and the Higher Primates," with Michael Braun, from January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1990.
Robert Janson-La Palme, Visiting Scholar, Princeton University. “Annotations for Publication of Complete Autobiographical Manuscript of Charles Wilson Peale," with Lillian Miller, from May 22, 1989 to January 31, 1990.
David Brown, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Topics in Black Atlantic Culture and Creolization," with Nicholas Spitzer, from January 15 to November 30, 1989.
Christopher Lornell, Postdoctoral Fellow, Memphis State University. "Folk Music -American Music and the Folkways Collection," with Anthony Seeger, from November 1, 1988 to Judy 31, 1990.

<<<Page: 81>>>

Jorge}Guni; Fulbright: Scholar.*.‘"1) ” Encaustic Painting, Roman, Greek and Modern and 2) Solvent Effects on Picture Cleaning," with Jia-Sun Tsang and David Erhardt, from September 25, 1989 to August 24, 1990.
Kathleen Emerson-Dell, Freer Fellow, University of Michigan. Research on Japanese Ceramics, from November 1, 1988 to June 30, 1989.
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE Short-Term Fellowships in Tropical Biology
Ranjit J. Daniels, Short-Term Fellow, Indian Institute of Science. "Landscape Heterogeneity: Patch Size, Organization, and Vertebrate (Birds and Reptiles)," with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from September 25 to December 18, 1989.
Emmett Duffy, Short-Term Fellow, University of North Carolina. "The Dynamics of Commensalism in Reef Invertebrates," with Nancy Knowlton, from October 1 to December 20, 1988.
Brian Fisher, Short-Term Fellow, University of Utah. "Interaction Between Pachychondyla and Cecronia," with Donald M. Windsor, from August 10 to November 20, 1989.
Matthew Gompper, Short-Term Fellow, University of Tennessee. "The Social Structure of the Coati (Nasua narica): Genetic Structure, Relatedness, and Causes of Gregariousness and Apparent Altruism," with Nicholas Smythe, from August 1 to December 31, 1989.
Jonathan Losos, Short-Term Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. "Ecology, Behavior, and Performance of Anolis Lizards," with A. Stanley Rand, from November 17 to December 12, 1988.
Simon Nemtzov, Short-Term Fellow, State University of New York at Stony Brook. "“Ecotypic Variation in the Social System and Mating Behavior of Caribbean Razorfish," with D. Ross Robertson, from June 1 to August 31, 1989.
Risa Rosenberg, Short-Term Fellow, University of Stockholm. "Butterfly Flight Height Stratification,“ with Donald M. Windsor, from February 19 to May 19, 1989.

<<<Page: 82>>>

Dayid..zeh, Short-Term, Fellow.,.Universitywof Arizona.* ."Studysor Sexual Selection in Pseudoscorpions," with William Eberhard, from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989.
Latin American and Exxon Fellowships
Jorge Alejandro Ahumada, Short-Term Fellow, Universidad de los Andes. "A Study of the Social Behavior of the Black Handed Spider Monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) at Barro Colorado Island," with Katherine Milton, Neal G. Smith and A. Stanley Rand, from October 14, 1988 to January 15, 1989.
Gloria Almanza, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. "“Inventario Herpetologico de la Serrania del Tute," with A. Stanley Rand and V. Martinez, from October 10, 1988 to March 31, 1989.
Emerita Borace, Short-Term Fellow, Universidad Autonoma de Mexico. "Inventory and Feeding Habits of Acaros Canestrimidae in 15 Species of Chrysomelidae-Cassimidae (Insecta)," with Donald M. Windsor, from July 3 to September 30, 1989.
Rosana Dosman, Exxon Fellow, Universiy of Panama. "“Variacion Genetica de la Poblacion de Hydrilla verticillata (L.F.) Royle en el Lago Gatun," with Harilaos Lessios and Jorge Briceno, from October 10, 1988 to January 10, 1989.
Idalia Fernandez, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. “Nutricion de’ Larvas de Mitrax spinosissimus," with John Christy, from January 2 to November 15, 1989.
Natalia Gomez, Exxon Fellow, University of Bath. “Chemically Mediated Morphogenesis and Army Ant Raid Pattern," with Hindrik Wolda and Egbert G. Leigh Jr., from June 22 to September 30, 1989.
Alejandro Farji, Short-Term Fellow, University of Buenos Aires. "Dinamica Espacial de la Busqueda y Explotacion de Parches Nuevos en Atta cephalotes," with Donald M. Windsor, from August 1 to October 31, 1989.
Carlos Fitzgerald, Short-Term Fellow, Hunter College, City University of New York. "Analisis Zooarqueologico de Muestras de El Cano, Panama Central," with Richard Cooke, from January 1 to June 30, 1989.
Juan Dieqo Lopez, Short-Term Fellow, Universidad Javeriana. “Predatory Fishes Trophyodynamics of Crab Larvae (Brachyura) on Rock Intertidal and Estuarine Environments," with D. Ross Robertson, from April 1 to September 30, 1989.

<<<Page: 83>>>

Martin E. Mitre, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. "Descomposicion y Relacion Longitud-Peso de Hydrilla verticillata en Poblaciones de la Isla de Barro Colorado, Lago Gatun," with Mireya Correa, from October 10, 1988 to Uy sh eS
Abdiel Rodriguez, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama.
"Inventario Herpetologico de la Serrania del Tute," with A.
Stanley Rand and V. Martinez, from October 10, 1988 to Marnchins ls 1989).
Pedro Zapata, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. “Nutricion de Larvas del Mithrax Spinossisimus," with John Christy, from
February 1 to November 15, 1989.
The Smithsonian offers internships and other appointments to visiting undergraduate and graduate students and museum professionals. The interns—listed by bureau or office—in this Appendix began their appointments between October 1, 1988, and September 30, 1989. Holders of special awards and participants in special programs are so listed. Where possible, the institutions attended, a brief description of the project undertaken, and the duration of the appointment are given for each intern.
Colleen McCracken, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Product
Development/Licensing, assisted in market research and product development, May 15, 1989 through August 18, 1989
Alessandra Yi, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Product
Development/Licensing, conducted collections research for product development, May 30, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Mark Bartley, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts
exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, April 17 through June 2, 1989.
Michael Bruchmann, Bachelors Degree. Foreign Affairs, reviewed and synthesized
information on interrelationship of environmental and economic issues, September 18, 1989 through December 31, 1989.
Angela Erdrich, Bachelors Degree. Quincentenary Planning Office, conducted
research for the American Indian Outreach Project, March 13, 1989 through June 7, 1989.
Julia Gomez, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Quincentenary Program,
performed research; assisted with newsletter, March 27, 1989 through June 9, _ 1989.

<<<Page: 84>>>

Sarah Joseph, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts
exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May 15 through June 2, 1989.
Christopher McIntyre, Bachelors Degree. Quincentenary Program, assisted in the production of the Quincentenary Program newsletter, July 10, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Rudolph Mendes, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May 15, through June 2, 1989.
Vincent Miller, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May 15, through June 2, 1989.
Wendy Mingin, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Polytechnic Institution and State University. Quincentenary Planning Office, assisted work with databases and
with various Quincentenary projects, February 6, 1989 through April 28, 1989. Brenda Mveng, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts
exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, April 17, through June 2, 1989.
Heidi Nielsen, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio State University. Man and the Biosphere Program, assisted in developing the program newsletter, June 12, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Michaela Pilar-Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May 15, through June 2, 1989.
Angela Puig, Bachelors Degree. Quincentenary Program, assisted the Quincentenary
Program with photo archive and library research, July 5, 1989 through August 31551989.
Nadia Rabesahala, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Office of International Relations, developed programs and guidelines to support the data
base_project_and developed background for the Madagascar programs, August 2, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Rodney Reynolds, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts
exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May 15, through June 2, 1989.
James Sharper, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Caribbean Festival Arts
exhibition, assisted with graphics design and installation of the exhibition, May 15, through June 2, 1989.
JOSEPH .HENRY PAPERS Cassandra Kniffin, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Conducted research for
current and future volumes of The Papers of Joseph Henry, June 6, 1989 through July 26, 1989.

<<<Page: 85>>>

Ilze Berzins, PhD. Pathology, received training in Pathology, June 19, 1989 through September 30, 1989.
Agustus Bosley, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Department of Mammalogy, conducted ethno-botany research, October 17, 1988 through April 1, 1989.
Kyra Caspary, High School Graduate. Golden Lion Tamarin Project, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Caron DeLancy, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Department of Mammalogy, conducted ethno-botany research, October 17, 1988 through April 1, 1989.
Jennine Gardiner, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College. Office of Design and Exhibits Planning, assisted with photographic archival preservation, November 1, 1988 through December 31, 1988.
Renita Jagan, Masters Candidate, Hood College. Invertebrates, assisted with the
cuttlefish breeding program and daily operations of department, January 1, 1989 through February 28, 1989. Robert Lee, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University School of Medicine.
Worked on developing artificial insemination techniques in the domestic ferret
which can be used to enlarge the population of the rare black-footed ferret, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Natalie Marine, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Design and Exhibits Planning, organized and archived photo collection using proper preservation techniques, February 27, 1989 through January 31, 1990.
Nancy McCorpin, High School Graduate. Small Mammal House, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Wayne Salvador, Jr., High School Graduate. Department of Animal Health,
participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Mark Stickney, High School Graduate. Small Mammal House, participated in "Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Melissa Thornley, High School Graduate. Publications Office, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Shawn Tolman, High School Graduate. Golden Lion Tamarin Project, participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Eric Van Kirk, High School Graduate. Primate House, participated in "Intern ’89,"
the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

<<<Page: 86>>>

Dianna Yankee, High Schoo] Graduate. Invertebrate Exhibits, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Sarah Barnum, Bachelors Degree. Studied interactions between plants and mammals in_a forest ecosystem, August 28, 1989 through March 23, 1989.
Denise D’Abundo, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on the effects of rising carbon dioxide concentrations on vegetation and ecosystem_ processes, September 11, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Elizabeth Dolph, Bachelors Candidate, Whitman College. Conducted research on microzooplankton grazing on flourescently labeled algea, May 22, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Heather Lair, Bachelors Candidate, Miami University. Studied acid deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, May 15, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Mary Lammert, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Lead participants on nature trails through forest, field and marshland and canoe tours of Muddy Creek and surrounding wetlands. Also assisted teachers in conducting activities that teach basic ecologic concepts., May 22, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Earl Larson, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on "Estuarine Fish Biology", February 13, 1989 through May 10, 1989.
Eugene Mei, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Studied the forest canopy to understand the biota environment and ecology of the tree tops, September 11, 1989 through December 22, 1989.
Corinne Miles, Bachelors Degree. Documented floristic and structural changes in
vegetation during forest development, August 28, 1989 through October 13, 1989.
Stacey Morgan, Bachelors Candidate, Arizona State University. Studied the community structure and population dynamics of phytoplankton in a estuary, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Mary Poteet, Bachelors Candidate, North Carolina State University. Examined complex interactions within a model food web containing representative fishery
species and common forage species, May 8, 1989 through August 25, 1989. Mark Van Oorschot, Bachelors Degree. Studied nitrogen and phosphorus miner-
alization in mparian ecosystems, April 3, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Ana Villegas, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on the effects of rising carbon
dioxide concentration on vegetation and ecosystem processes, April 17, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Wendy Wagner, Bachelors Candidate, Drew University. Studied habitat utilization by migratory warblers, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
James Watkins, Bachelors Degree. Studied the release of nutrients from subtidal sediments, June 5, 1989 through September 15, 1989.

<<<Page: 87>>>

Pamela Westgate, Bachelors Candidate, Hampshire College. Studied the forest
canopy to understand the biota, environment and ecology of the tree tops, May
29, 1989 through September 1, 1989. Steven Wu, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Studied ecological factors
regulating abundance and distribution of juvenile blue crabs as a limiting life
stage for the fishery in upper Chesapeake Bay, June 5, 1989 through September 8, 1989.
Lisa Carlucci, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Arranged and described
the Division of Mammals Biographical Files and other collections, October 3, 1988 through May 19, 1989.
Elizabeth Joffrion, Masters Degree. Conducted research on the Oral History Project and Video History Project, July 10, 1989 through September 15, 1989. Monica Von Drasek, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Photo Survey
Project, completed an archival project to rehouse, arrange and describe
architectural drawings from the collections, January 9, 1989 through September 30, 1989.
Zoe Lindsay, High School Graduate. Museum Reference Center, participated in "Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Robert McBride, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Special Collections,
created an inventory of Audubon matenals, November 8, 1988 through February 1, 1989.
Denise Alvarez, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, analyzed the ecological
consequences of structure-physiology relationships of cotyledons through
comparison of various tropical woody species, July 3, 1989 through September 25, 1989.
Fernando Arosemena, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, monitored
population dynamics and habitat use in birds and ecology of vertebrates of
forest undergrowth on BCI and Gigante Peninsula, July 24, 1989 through October 15, 1989.

<<<Page: 88>>>

Sandra Bos, Bachelors Degree. Ancon, assisted with the population genetics and avian extinction Tropical Forest Isolate project, May 1, 1989 through
Ewa Nowacka Chian, Bachelors Degree. Archaeology Laboratory, cleaned, mended and measured human skeletons from two archaeological sites in Central Panama, October 17, 1988 through January 9, 1989.
Roberto Cordero, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, assisted with a study measuring photosynthesis, respiration and transpiration of tropical forest plants, January 1, 1989 through March 31, 1989.
Janna Ellingson, Phd Candidate, University of Texas. Gamboa, assisted in a study of reproductive behavior and communication in physalaemus pustulosus, June 30, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Yolanda Gamarra, Bachelors Degree. Gamboa, assisted in a project to study the evolution of sexual dimorphism in Neotropical pseudoscorpions, January 16, 1989 through April 16, 1989.
Pedro Lozada, Bachelors Degree. Entomological Laboratory, assisted with the taxonomic study of Cicadellinae project, May 1, 1989 through July 31, 1989. July 31,° 1989:
Viterbo Rodriguez, Bachelors Degree. Ancon and Barto Colorado Island, conducted research on the reproductive biology of Chelymorpha alternans, July 3, 1989 through September 25, 1989.
Oris Sanjur, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Naos Marine Laboratory, assisted with the protein electrophoresis of fish, sea-urchins, isopods and gorgonians project, May 1, 1989 through July 24, 1989.
Cibeles Marla Somarriba, Bachelors Degree. Ancon, assisted with the functional
morphology of male and female reproductive systems as it relates to the mechanism of sperm precedence in the tortoise beetle, Chelymorpa alternans, January 16, 1989 through April 14, 1989.
Mario Sousa, Bachelors Degree. Ancon, assisted in a study involving Urania moths
and their larval food plant, Omphalea diandra, January 15, 1989 through April 15, 1989.
Jesus Armando Ugalde, Bachelors Degree. Assisted with research on the precedence of spermatozoids of two species of Altica, September 1, 1988 through December 1, 1988.
Paolino Velotti, Bachelors Degree. San Blas Field Station, assisted with research on environmental variation in colony morphology and behavior of Manicina areolata (Linneaus), October 7, 1988 through December 31, 1988.
Luis Manuel Vargas, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Barro Colorado
Island, provided research support for preparation of illustrated flora of
seedlings of Panamanian moist forest with emphasis on Barro Colorado, April 3, 1989 through July 10, 1989.

<<<Page: 89>>>

LaNeysa Harris, Masters Candidate, University of Washington, Seattle. Education, developed audio tape and conducted educational activities for "The Real McCoy: African-American Inventors and Innovator, 1619-1930" exhibition, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Tressa Wood, High School Graduate. Education, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Jenny Hoffman, Bachelors Candidate, Emory University. Prepared descriptions of Archives’ collections containing information about the inter-relationship between
French and American art, as preparation for a guide to be published in 1990, June 20, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Frederick LaManna, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Studied collections and prepared description for inclusion in a guide to French-American sources in the holdings, September 15, 1989 through December 12, 1989.
Amy McIntyre, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Prepared descriptions of Archives’ collections containing information about the inter-relationship between
French and American art, as preparation for a guide to be published in 1990, February 2, 1989 through April 30, 1989.
Kathryn Nowicki, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Studied collections and prepared description for inclusion in a guide to French-American sources in the holdings, September 15, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Olga Ulloa-Herrera, Masters Degree. Prepared descriptions of Archives’ collections containing information about the inter-relationship between French and
American art, as preparation for a guide to be published in 1990, May 10, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Sandra Antholt, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of Public Affairs, prepared an archive on "A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the Book from the Vever Collection" exhibition, January 3, 1989 through January 24, 1989.
Susan Antholt, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of Public Affairs, archived publicity for "Timur and The Prncely Vision: Persian Art and Culture in the 15th Century" and other exhibits, May 24, 1989 through August 15, 1989.

<<<Page: 90>>>

Cristina Firouz, Bachelors Candidate, Corcoran School of Art. Design and Production, assisted in production of graphic artwork and illustration for special exhibitions, July 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Linda Kleeman, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Chinese Art, assisted with collection management and research, January 5, 1989 through January 30, 1989.
Elizabeth Krebs, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Chinese Art, assisted in basic research on Chinese Art collections and in answering public inquiries, May 15, 1989 through July 2, 1989.
Lorna Kundert, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, gained experience in cataloging, September 5, 1989 through December 12, 1989.
Andrew Leung, Masters Candidate, New York University Institute of Fine Arts. Assisted with Gellatly Collection and Kizil Frescof fragments, June 6, 1989 through September 8, 1989.
Jodi Lox, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. American Art, researched Peacock Room decoration, Whistler’s design and decoration’s influence on AngloAmerican decorative arts, June 6, 1989 through August 14, 1989.
Sharon Misik, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education Department, studied museum interpretation, January 9, 1989 through April 20, 1989.
Shaalini Ranasinghe, Bachelors Candidate, McGill University.
Prepared materials for school and public programs held in association with The The Noble Partch exhibition, June 5, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Beng-Meng Sun, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, assisted with cataloging duties, September 11, 1989 through December 1, 1989.
Ching-Ming Tzu, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, assisted with library administration, January 31, 1989 through May 10, 1989.
Kim Umemoto, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University. Office of Public Affairs, assisted in preparation of press material and mailing list for "Yani: The Brush of Innocence," May 20, 1989 through June 23, 1989.
Eunice Verstegen, Bachelors Candidate, University of Washington. Public Affairs,
assisted with archiving exhibits and with media contacts, September 11, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Priscilla Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Surveyed, treated and conducted research on paper collections, June 16, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Carrie Beyer, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Surveyed, treated and conducted research on paper collections, June 16, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Andrea Bowes, Bachelors Candidate, Sir Sandford Fleming College. Textile Conservation, received practical training on various topics including exhibition
preparation, cleaning, dyeing for restoration and dye analysis, September 1, 1989 through April 30, 1990.

<<<Page: 91>>>

John Childs, Bachelors Degree. Conducted research on consolidants for plaster archaeological objects, October 31, 1988 through June 30, 1989. Shannon Elliott, Bachelors Degree. Worked on the Flag Preservation Project:
examined, cataloged, restored, treated and conducted research on wool flags from 19th Century, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
LaTasha Harrtis, Bachelors Candidate, Philadelphia College of Textiles and Science. Conservation, worked in the Textile Conservation Laboratory in conjunction with the wool flag project, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Philippe Lafargue, Masters Candidate, Ecole Boulle. Characterized materials
pertinent to the discipline of furniture conservation and application of this theoretical knowledge to that discipline, June 1, 1989 through August 31, 1989. Muhammadin Razak, Visiting Museum Professional, National Museum of Indonesia. Textiles, prepared dyes for Schweppe Dye Analysis Course, June 1, 1989 through September 15, 1989. Helen Young, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware. Surveyed, treated and
conducted research on paper collections, June 16, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Lisa Agosto, Bachelors Degree. Library, assisted with collection maintenance and
reviewed and itemized collection of auction catalogs, July 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Jennifer Bahssin, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Purchase.
Drawings and Prints, assisted with inventory and cataloging of collection, September 11, 1989 through December 21, 1989.
Assunta del] Priore, Bachelors Degree. Edinburgh University. Director’s Office, researched the Carnegie Mansion and the history of 19th century art historical
teaching in Amencan and performed archival work for new introductory gallery,
June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Sarah Dove, Masters Degree. Paper Conservation, performed research project in Paper conservation, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Fennemiek Gommer, Bachelors Candidate, Academie voor Beeldende Kunsten. Exhibition Design, assisted with exhibition installation, October 3, 1988 through December 14, 1988.
Ingrid Kummer, Museum Professional, Museum Fur Angewandte Kunst. Development Office, conducted research for "L’Art de Vivre" exhibition November 7, 1988 through April 24, 1989.
Ann Leibowitz, Bachelors Degree. Decorative Arts, conducted research for "L’Art de Vivre" exhibition, November 9, 1988 through April 1, 1989.
Gwen Loeffler, Bachelors Candidate, Adelphi University. Development Office, conducted fundraising activities, January 3, 1989 through May 1, 1989.
Susanne Loomis, Bachelors Degree. Drawings and Prints, assisted with collection management, January 3, 1989 through May 31, 1989.
, 85

<<<Page: 92>>>

Esther Methe, Masters Degree. Textiles, assisted with textile conservation, October 3, 1988 through October 1, 1989.
Sandee Miller, Bachelors Degree. Paper Conservation, assisted in paper conservation, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Caroline Naphegyi, Bachelors Candidate, Ecole du Louvre. Decorative Arts,
Conducted research in cataloging collection and exhibitions, July 10, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Monika Platzer, Bachelors Degree. Drawings and Prints, assisted installation planning of "Views of Rome" exhibition, researched Wiener Werkstatte Textile
Collection, and assisted in archival cataloguing and collection management, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Ann Portell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Textiles and Library,
conducted textile research and assisted library management, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Alison Prendiville, Bachelors Degree. Director’s Office, researched Calder sculpture in New_York for exhibition brochure, May 7, 1989 through September 8, 1989.
Tricia Rose, Bachelors Degree. Library, organized museum’s vertical file of clippings and pamphlets, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989. Tamara Schlesinger, Bachelors Candidate, Columbia University.
Decorative Arts, assisted with collections management, January 3, 1989 through January 20, 1989.
Laura Shoaf, High School, Miss Porters School. Textiles and Library, assisted with
photography of collection and library management, January 4, 1989 through February 2, 1989.
Jomo Simmons, Bachelors Degree. Library, assisted with collections maintenance and
reviewed and itemized collection of auction catalogs, July 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Nancy Turrell, Bachelors Candidate, New York University. Development Office,
conducted fundraising research, January 24, 1989 through May 31, 1989. Craig Van Blarcom, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College. Development Office,
researched funding prospect_and assisted with membership services, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Michelle Arkin, Bachelors Candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Education, performed various tasks such as working with docents, assisting in the development of
educational materials and learning to give tours, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Veronique Bernard, Masters Degree. Education, worked on tours and all aspects of the Department of Education, July 6, 1989 through August 15, 1989.
Christina Hough, Bachelors Degree. Public Information, assisted in writing press releases, working openings, and helping with a seminar on museum work and training, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

<<<Page: 93>>>

Bonnie Kramer, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits, assisted in arranging and exhibiting
works of art_ and learned about labelling methods and dry mounting, June 19, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Brenda Plakans, Bachelors Candidate, University of Iowa. Curatorial Department, assisted curators Valerie Fletcher and Judith Zilczer with research on permanent collection archives, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Christine Splinter, Masters Candidate, University of Bonn. Education, assisted with teaching docents, February 22, 1989 through April 15, 1989.
Richard Boyd II, Associates Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.
Preservation/Restoration Division, assisted with preservation/restoration
projects in support of museum’s collections management program, January 17, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Stefanie Brachfeld, Bachelors Candidate, University of Rochester. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, researched origin of modern surface features from Viking orbiter data, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Robert Brazzle, Bachelors Candidate, Bucknell University. Laboratory for Astrophysics, assisted in analysis of astronomical data on star formation and active galaxies and participated in laboratory tests using infrared _and optical techniques, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Kristine Conner, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Public Affairs,
prepared weekly news digest and assisted with promotion of new exhibition
openings and Apollo 11 Twentieth Anniversary activities, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Timothy Cronen, Bachelors Candidate, Belmont Abbey College. Information
Management Division, assisted with standardization of NASM’s computer database for videodisc photographs of aerospace personalities and aircraft and
with NASM’s special subject collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989. Christopher Damrosch, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Aeronautics
Department, worked with data on the NASM aircraft model collections , June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Guillaume de Syon, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Aeronautics Department, assisted with obtaining, accessioning, preserving, and
storing artifacts such as flight clothing, memorabilia, and armament, January 17, 1989 through April 18, 1989.
John Eckstine, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Collections Maintenance, assisted with a reconciliation of the Registrar’s records with the artifact inventory records, January 3, 1989 through March 31, 1989.
Kelly Evans, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M. Archives, reviewed and repaired microfilm, cross-checked indexes, reorganized and rehoused drawings collections and prepared processing plans, September 11, 1989 through November 20, 1989,

<<<Page: 94>>>

Robert Flanagan, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits, designed and produced posters, publications, and general signage, September 11, 1989 through December 11, 1989.
Kristin Gannett, Bachelors Candidate, Wartburg College. Information Management, assisted in standardization of NASM’s computer database for videodisc
photographs of aerospace personalities and aircraft and special subject collection, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Renee Geary, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Photography Laboratory, assisted daily operations, January 23, 1989 through May 2, 1989.
Lily Giordano, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Aeronautics Department, assisted with research on WWI aircraft collection, particularly French aircraft, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Terry Hammond, Masters Degree. Art Unit, researched copynght status of NASM’s art collection, July 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Christy Hesby, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington College. Information Management Division, assisted in the accessioning of donations to the Museum’s collections, January 17, 1989 through April 24, 1989.
Gaochang Huang, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Office Automation and Information Management, assisted with inventory of software and hardware and with novel network installation, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Sir Johnson, High School, Crossland High School. Collections Maintenance, assisted with artifact inventory and restoration of artifacts, July 11, 1989 through August 22, 1989.
Victoria Johnson, Associates Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautics University.
Preservation/Restoration Division, assisted_in restoration and preservation of air
and spacecraft in NASM collections, May 22, 1989 through August 18, 1989. Francis Kiger III, Bachelors Candidate, West Chester University. Center for Earth
and Planetary Studies, mapped tectonic features of the floor of the Olympus
Mons Caldera and constructed a digital mosaic using high-resolution Viking orbiter images, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Lutz Koppen. Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Collections Maintenance Division, worked with data on the NASM aircraft model collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Robert Leach, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits Production, applied graphic art_matemals to_exhibits areas and structures, January 17, 1989 through March 2, 1989.
Rebecca Leake, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Polytechnical Institute and State
University. NASM Archives, assisted with repair and preservation of microfilm, and review of Wright Field Collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989. Allison Levy, Bachelors Candidate, Tulane University. Office of Education, Produced artwork for various projects, including slide sets, brochures and workshop packages, June 12, 1989 through July 31, 1989. Michael Liu, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Space History and Center for
Earth and Planetary Studies, researched the technology of satellite design and
mapped tectonic features of the floor of the Olympus Mons Caldera, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

<<<Page: 95>>>

Mark Lott, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Archives, assisted with repair and preservation of microfilm and reorganization of aircraft drawings, June 5, 1989 through August 12, 1989.
Timothy Maloy, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Restoration/Preservation
Division, assisted with preservation and restoration program, assembly of air
and spacecraft artifacts, installation of artifacts and machining, welding, fabric work and chemical cleaning, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Ellen Mansfield, Masters Candidate, Gallaudet University. Exhibits Production and
Design, designed sign system for Arts and Industries Building and assisted with
installation of new gallery and silkscreening for interpretive panels, January 17, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Trina Maslowski, Bachelors Candidate, Corcoran School of Art. Department of
Exhibits, assisted in typesetting label scripts, proofreading galleys, updating
computer records and making photostats, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
John McGinnis, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. Preservation/Restoration, performed tasks of a technical nature, September 11, 1989 through December 11, 1989.
Kevin McKeon, High School Graduate. Preservation/Restoration, participated in
‘Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national
summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Richard Murphy, Bachelors Candidate, Centenary College. Archives, assisted in repair and preservation of microfilm, reorganization of aircraft drawings and review of Wright Field Collections, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Michael O’Campo, High School Graduate. Office of Plant Services, participated in
‘Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Scott Ortman, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Collections Maintenance, assisted with preservation of NASM aircraft engine and collections,
June 19, 1989 through September 19, 1989.
Carol Patt, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Library, assisted with evaluation of the quality and value of the Library collection, January 17, 1989 through May 5, 1989.
Daniel Pendick, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Binghamton.
Office of Museum Programs, researched appropriate films for NASM’s
Strategic Bombing Program and the Space Fiction Film Series, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Radhika Philip, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Collections Management, prepared label text for artifacts at the Paul E. Garber Facility, January 4, 1989 through February 1, 1989.
Thomas Ratcliffe, High Schoo] Graduate. Space History Department, participated in
‘Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989. William Robie, Masters Candidate, East Carolina University. Aeronautics, prepared
Morehouse Geographics for publication, September 11, 1989 through December 11, 1989.

<<<Page: 96>>>

Thomasina Sai-Yee Seah, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Exhibits Department, designed brochures, programs, and posters, January 17, 1989 through May 2, 1989.
Laurence Shear, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Office Automation, wrote DBaselll code for museum projects and assisted personal computer users, October 11, 1988 through May 5, 1989.
Alex Spencer, Masters Candidate, Pennsylvania State University. Aeronautics, worked on Sherman Fairchild Archives and upgraded aerial photographic archives, September 11, 1989 through November 20, 1989.
Kevin Sturgill, High School Graduate. Preservation/Restoration, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Leikun Teferra, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Science and Exploration, conducted research on the space history of the Soviet Union, February 6, 1989 through December 11, 1989.
Lori Vermaas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Space History Department, assisted in evaluating and modifying software for interactive
computer programs for the "Beyond the Limits" Gallery, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Steven Weidenkopf, High Schoo] Graduate. Archival Support Center, participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Richard Wirz, Bachelors Candidate, Montreat-Anderson College. Preservation/Restoration, performed tasks of a technical nature, September 11, 1989 through November 20, 1989.
Agbenyega Adedze, Masters Degree. Curatorial Department, researched the social function and aesthetic appreciation of Ewe Textiles, June 12, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Indra Caudle, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Curatorial Department, conducted object-orient research on the permanent collection, September 11, 1989 through December 31, 1989.
Karen Fountain, Bachelors Degree. Public Affairs, assisted in promoting educational activities, organizing special events and developing affairs campaigns, June 5, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Kendall LaMontagne, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Archives, Processed and catalogued vintage postcard collection, June 14, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Nuria Madrid, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Department of
Education Department, conducted research and development of guided tours, January 17, 1989 through April 21, 1989.

<<<Page: 97>>>

Dafton Njuguna, PhD Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles. Curatorial Department, reviewed literature on form and phenomena in nomadic transhumance architecture in sub-saharan Africa, June 19, 1989 through September 8, 1989.
Heidi Overing, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial Department, conducted research and
prepared materials for future exhibition, February 8, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Gretchen Primack, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Department of Education,
conducted research on a single or group of instruments for future exhibition, December 4, 1988 through January 27, 1989.
Sally Shelburne, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Curatorial Department, conducted research on African art, January 23, 1989 through May 30, 1989.
Dean Adkins, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Intern Programs, participated in advanced Jevel museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.
Stephen Best, Masters Candidate, Williams College. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.
Susan Bollendorf, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.
Judy Chang, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Santa Cruz. Graphic Arts, performed collection management tasks including cataloguing prints and drawings, reorganizing art works, and archival storage and handling,
June 19, 1989 through September 8, 1989.
Kimberly Cody, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through December 8, 1989.
Ethan Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Design and Production Office, assisted the Design and Production Office, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Mayra Corral, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Design and Production Office and Office of Museum Programs, divided time between Design and
Production Office and Office of Museum Programs, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Karen Fix, Bachelors Degree. Office of Research Support, conducted research for the Inventory of American Paintings, September 25, 1989 through December 1, 1989.
Catherine Groos, Masters Candidate, University of Southern California. Curatorial Division, assisted the Curatorial Division, January 9, 1989 through April 21, 1989.
Anne Hudson, Bachelors Degree. Library, assisted in general aspects of the Library, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Nina Hval, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through December 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 98>>>

Susannah Jacobson, Bachelors Candidate, Hartwick College. Curatorial Division, assisted the Curatonal Division, January 9, 1989 through February 3, 1989.
Jacqueline Kodner, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.
J’Laine Krueger, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.
Margaret Lee, Masters Candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Graphics, assisted in general aspects of the Department of Graphic Arts collection, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Joseph Lucchesi, Masters Degree. Administration, assisted in all aspect of Administration Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Catherine Lusheck, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participated in advanced level museum training programs, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.
Althea Malloy, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Registrar,
assisted Rights and Reproduction work, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989. Julie Mann, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Museum Programs, assisted in
developing interpretive materials, June 5, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Michelle Mead, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial Division, assisted in general aspects of the Curatorial Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Kathleen Mosier, Bachelors Candidate, Hiram College. Research Support, assisted in Development of an inventory of American sculpture, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Marina Moskowitz, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Curatorial Division, assisted in all aspects of the chief curator’s research, June 5, 1989 through July 21,1989.
Grace Murray, Bachelors Candidate, Wake Forest University. Publications, assisted in all aspects of the Publications Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Knistin Norell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas-Lawrence. Curatorial Division and Museum Programs Division, divided time between the Curatorial Division and the Museum Programs Division, January 9, 1989 through April 21, 1989.
Stephanie Rieke, Bachelors Candidate, Kenyon College. Curatorial Division, assisted in_ general aspects of the Curatorial Division, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989,
Lesley Roberts, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles. Office of Research Support, assisted the Office of Research Support, January 9, 1989 through March 24, 1989.
Leisa Rundquist, Bachelors Degree, University of Illinois. Curatorial Division, assisted in research for newly arrived Mephill collection, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Lynne Schaffer, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Public Programs Division, assisted the Public Programs Division, January 9, 1989 through April 21, 1989.
Martina Schenke, Masters Candidate, Goethe University. Intern Programs,
Participated in advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through April 20, 1990.

<<<Page: 99>>>

Leslie Tate, Masters Candidate, American University. Intern Programs, participated in_ advanced level museum training program, September 8, 1989 through Apmil 20, 1989.
Anne Walker, High School Graduate. Office of the Registrar, participated in “Intern
89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Nancy Wickham, Bachelors Degree. Public Programs, assisted with development of public brochures and tours, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989. Stuart Wolffe, Bachelors Candidate, Seton Hall University. Registrar, assisted in
various aspects of the Registrar’s office, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Erin Ackerman, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Academic Affairs, conducted research on the history of representations of New England, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Cynthia Agustin, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, assisted with the Duke Ellington exhibit, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Leanne Albert, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College. First Ladies, conducted research on two First Ladies, September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Mary Appel, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, assisted with the Underwood and Underwood glass stereograph collection, September 5, 1989 through September 1, 1990.
Michelle Appel, Bachelors Candidate, California State University at Chico. Conservation, assisted with conservation of Men and Womens exhibit, June 1, 1989 throughAugust 18, 1989.
Paula Artal-Isbrand, Bachelors Degree. Conservation, assisted with rehousing project, September 12, 1989 through May 15, 1990.
Donna Avedisian, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University. Registrar, compiled information about 18th and 19th century pianos, June 6, 1989 through July 31, 1989.
Myrna Barriatos, Museum Professional. National Museum of the Philippines. Office
of the Registrar, performed collections management including records systems,
object handling and processing and computerization of information, July 10, 1989 through October 15, 1989.
Samuel] Batzli, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Printing and Photographic Services, assisted with George Tames collection of photographs, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Tanika Beamon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Assisted research
by head of audience research and helped prepare preview gallery for the "The
Information of People, Information and Technology" exhibit, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Dana Belcher, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Numismatics, rearranged
coins and currency of Alexandria, Egypt from Greek imperial times in Asia Minor and Asia Proper, September 12, 1989 through December 15, 1989.

<<<Page: 100>>>

Sheri Belcher, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Computers Information and Society, assisted with the "Information Age" exhibition, February 7, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Suzanne Bell, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Domestic Life Division, researched youth subcultures in 20th century American and American home life, June 1, 1989 through August 1, 1989.
Paul Bellis, Bachelors Candidate, College of Wooster. History of Science and Technology, assisted in research on exhibit dealing with history of science in the
U.S., stressing the social implications of scientific research, June 5, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Mike Berman, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin. Social and Cultural History, performed research, script writing and exhibit maintenance for "Land
of Promise: America in the 19th century,” May 23, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Amy Bix, PhD Candidate, Johns Hopkins University. History of Science and Technology, researched and planned for new exhibit "Science in America," June 14, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Laura Blake, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Department of Public
Programs, assisted research and collection of photos, American Sampler
programs, and archiving and cataloging of materials, January 27, 1989 through May 5, 1989.
Heidi Boncher, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Electricity and Modern Physics, collected data for card catalog, prepared photographs and assisted in conservation tasks, June 1, 1989 through July 31, 1989.
Kourtney Braff, Bachelors Degree. Internship Office, assisted with Desktop Publishing Intern Newsletter and Pendulum Perspectives, June 6, 1989 through July 6, 1989.
Laura Branstetter, Bachelors Candidate, New College of U.S.F. Transportation Division, assisted with exhibit design and construction of Bicycle exhibit, June 5, 1989 through August 10, 1989.
Elizabeth Broadrup, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College. Community Life
Division, performed graphic and bibliographic research for exhibit on children
and the Cold War Era and assisted with exhibit maintenance, cataloguing and accessioning, June 19, 1989 through August 31, 1989. Christina Broberg, Bachelors Candidate, Corcoran School of Art. Publications,
assisted in graphic design and production of booklets, flyers, and programs
required by the Department of Public Programs, February 21, 1989 through May 12, 1989.
Jeffrey Brodie, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Science and
Technology, assisted with research of various science _and technology projects
using the Smithsonian Archives, the National Archives and the Library of Congress, May 24, 1989 through August 3, 1989.
Melissa Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Alma College. Office of Public Affairs, acted _as liasion with curators and exhibit designers, met with film crews, answered calls
and reviewed periodicals and newspapers for information pertinent to the museum, February 2, 1989 through April 28, 1989.

<<<Page: 101>>>

Betsy Buchanan, Bachelors Candidate, Emory and Henry College. Numismatics, created photographic files including identification check and typing of labels, March 7, 1989 through May 1, 1989.
Christopher Bunce, High School Graduate. National Numismatics Collection, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education’s national Summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
David Burgevin, Masters Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Photographic History, assisted with collection management, August 28, 1989 through December 8, 1989.
Kim Butler, Masters Degree. Public Programs, researched and planned for 1990 conference on the African diaspora, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Michele Cappelle, Masters Degree. Textiles, researched the patent models of carpeting in the Dot collection, July 7, 1989 through September 22, 1989.
Lage Carlson, Masters Candidate, Buffalo State College. Conservation Division, assisted with conservation/preservation of paper objects, March 6, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
James Carpenter, Bachelors Candidate, Central Wesleyan College. Transportation, served as research and collections management assistant, September 11, 1989 through December 18, 1989.
Marie Carter, Bachelors Degree. Publications, served _as editorial and production assistant working on entire publications process, September 25, 1989 through June 30, 1990.
David Cebula, Masters Candidate, West Virginia University. Transportation, compiled an index of marine steam engine builders in New York from 1840 through 1860, January 23, 1989 through March 17, 1989.
Sulhee Chung, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Science and Technology,
conducted research on the impact _and influence of technological development
on the intellectual history of the United States, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Greta Climer, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Internship Office, assisted in coordination and research for the Landmark ’90 conference and the February Black History Month Conference, June 12, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Leslie Clovis, Masters Candidate, Northeastern University. Internship Office, organized "brown bag" series of weekly lectures and events for interns, June 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Lisa Clyde, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, conducted research
on the history of advertising, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989. Anna Coatsworth, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Internship Office, assisted Internship and Fellowship Coordinator, July 3, 1989 through August 25, 1989. Jared Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education, assisted with
"Field to Factory" Education outreach kits, January 24, 1989 through April 24, 1989.

<<<Page: 102>>>

Hope Connors, Masters Degree. American Indian Program, maintained "The Way to
Independence" exhibition, established "suitcase" a traveling exhibition of native
plants and medicinal plants and assisted with Folklife Festival and Public Programs Education Coordination, June 12, 1989 through October 17, 1989.
Rebecca Cureton, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education, assisted with projects relating to the Hands on History Room, January 9, 1989 through April 20, 1989.
Colleen Curry, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Registrar’s Office, assisted with variety of tasks including administrative functions, off-site storage
and central cataloguing of the 1876 exhibition, May 8, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Amy Jo Dale, Bachelors Candidate, University of Redlands. Public Affairs, studied administrative systems necessary for an effective public affairs program, September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Daniel Dalrymple, High School Graduate. Archives Center, participated in "Intern
89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Margarita Decierdo, Bachelors Degree. Department of History and Department of Agriculture, researched and transcribed information on Southern agriculture, June 12, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Lies] Dees, Bachelors Degree. Musical History, assisted with the Duke Ellington collection, September 5, 1989 through August 5, 1990.
Margherita Desy, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Political
History, worked on decorative art objects for the "Ceremonial Court" exhibition
and performed conservation and design work on the First Ladies Case, January 11, 1989 through May 1, 1989.
Cynthia Dickinson, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Electricity and Modern Physics, performed basic collections management and preparation of a historic photo file, June 19, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Debra Dunbar, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Davis. Exhibit Design, served as design assistant for the "Women in the Progressive Era” exhibition, September 5, 1989 through December 20, 1989.
David Edwards, Bachelors Candidate, Holy Cross College. Academic Affairs, assisted in preparation of a histonography of the literature about the Pumritans,
January 17, 1989 through May 5, 1989.
Hazel Ervin, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. American Quarterly, assisted with editing and layout for American Quarterly, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Lura Erwin, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Exhibit Design, designed scale
drawings for "From Parlor to Politics” exhibition, February 1, 1989 through April 28, 1989.

<<<Page: 103>>>

Marisol Espina-Ruiz, Museum Professional, National Museum of Anthropology of Mexico. Exhibits, assisted in the design and preparation for an exhibition on television, January 1, 1989 through May 15, 1989.
Francesca Fazzari, Bachelors Candidate, University of Toronto. History of Science and Technology, assisted with research in Manast perspective of developmental
technology and with technology exhibit preparation, May 15, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Kathleen Fenton, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Internship Office, served as assistant internship and fellowship coordinator, January 9, 1989 through March 31, 1989.
Jocelyn File, Bachelors Degree. Armed Forces Division, worked with prints and photographs in the Division’s collection and helped to maintain the "A More Perfect Union" exhibition, June 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Amber Finney, High School Graduate. Division of Medical Sciences, participated in "Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Delya Ghosh, High School Graduate. Programs in Popular American Music,
participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Leslie Gilltum, High School, Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology. Political History, assisted with research and organization for "Women in the Progressive Era” exhibition, June 28, 1989 through July 29, 1989.
Joanne Gipson, Bachelors Degree. Medical Sciences, performed research and
inventory in preparation for the manuscript "Engendering Culture: Manhood
and Womanhood in 1930s Murals, Sculptures, and Theater, June 8, 1989 through August 1, 1989.
Randi Gordan, Bachelors Candidate, Washington State University. Department of
Science and Technology, assisted in a special project for military headgear, a
project for uniforms and in developing a national collection of women’s military uniforms, May 22, 1989 through August 12, 1989.
Christine Griffin, Bachelors Candidate, Baldwin Wallace College. Internship Office, assisted Internship and Fellowship Coordinator, June 19, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Peter Gustafson, Bachelors Candidate, Houghton College. Political History, identified, marked, located, and rearranged collections, February 2, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Jeffrey Hamley, PhD Candidate, Harvard University. American Indian Program, researched photographic history of federal Indian boarding school education
during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

<<<Page: 104>>>

Brooke Hartzog, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Photography, assisted in the production of a videodisc concerning the Underwood and Underwood glass stereographs collection, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Katherine Hersperger, Bachelors Candidate, Syracuse University. Publications Division, assisted in design and editing, production and inventory control of publications, May 22, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Elizabeth Heydt, Bachelors Candidate, Purdue University. Electricity and Modern Physics, assisted in collections management, working with a project to
rehouse specimens collected in the Division of Electricity and Modern Physics, May 15, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Julie Hickman, Bachelors Candidate, Baylor University. Public Programs, assisted the Intern Coordinator, May 15, 1989 through June 16, 1989.
Carrie Higgins, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Electricity and Modern Physics, worked in conservation collection management, exhibit design and online computer data entry, September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Michelle Ho, High School Graduate. Division of Political History, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Cynthia Holloman, Bachelors Candidate, Auburn University. Armed Forces History, Participated in special projects to document, photo and rehouse head gear,and
in development of the collection of women’s military uniforms, June 15, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Kathleen Horwedel, Bachelors Candidate, Bowling Green State University. Social and Cultural History and Division of Community of Life, assisted with research and exhibitions, June 5, 1989 through August 9, 1989.
Erin Hoyt, Bachelors Candidate, Spring Hill College. Education, assisted with preparation of a new interpreter’s manual for the school tour program,
May 30, 1989 through August 10, 1989.
Maureen Hurley, Bachelors Candidate, University of New Hampshire. Public Programs, assisted with production of publications, February 2, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Elizabeth Joffrion, Masters Degree. Agriculture and Natural Resources, transcribed, indexed and created finding aide for a series of oral histories conducted with Southern sharecroppers and farm tenants, September 25, 1989 through June 30, 1990.
Su Kao, Bachelors Candidate, Bryn Mawr College. History of Science and Technology, catalogued and accessioned approximately 200 over-the-counter medicines collected in China last year, June 1, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Mary Kenyon-Sterling, Bachelors Degree. Columbus Quincentenary, assisted with research and preparation of exhibits, June 19, 1989 through June 1, 1990.
Mark Kessler, Bachelors Degree. Assisted with research for Common Agenda,
June 27, 1989 throug August 25, 1989.

<<<Page: 105>>>

Lene Klit, Visiting Professional, Danish National Museum. Conservation Department, served as assistant to the photographers learning latest photographic, studio and lab equipment, November 1, 1988 through January 31, 1989.
Lisa Kranthal, Bachelors Degree. Conservation, learned conservation techniques, September 18, 1989 through June 30, 1990.
Angela Krueger, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Armed Forces Division, Participated in a special project for military headgear and helped to develop a
national collection of women’s military uniforms, May 22, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Sanghmitra Kundu, Masters Candidate, Texas Tech Museum. History and Technology Collections Management, assisted with reinstallation of exhibits removed for building renovation, May 15, 1989 through August 15, 1989.
Martha La Mason, Bachelors Candidate, Christopher Newport College. Political History, assisted with final organization and installation of the "Ceremonial Court" exhibition, January 9, 1989 through March 7, 1989.
Jill Lavigne, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Office of Printing and Photographic Services, assisted with various work in the office, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Maureen Lenehan, Bachelors Degree. Numismatics, reorganized the Numismatic Library photographs, June 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Jennifer Loesel, High Schoo] Graduate. Early Enrichment Center, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Bridget Maley, Bachelors Candidate, Salem College. Ceramics and Glass, assisted in accessioning a collection of recently acquired ceramics, January 3, 1989 through January 27, 1989.
David Manning, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Museum Programs, assisted with publicity for American Sampler, All-American Music and Palm Court programs, September 12, 1989 through November 30, 1989.
Daniel McCarthy, Bachelors Candidate, University of Oregon. Internship Office, researched and produced an Internship Catalogue; researched and wrote for the Newsletter to former interns, April 3, 1989 through June 23, 1989.
Daniel McClure, Bachelors Candidate, Wesleyan University. Archives Center,
conducted a research project with the Duke ae Collection, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Laura McGlasson, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Armed Forces History, updated catalog records on Womens Uniform Collection, January 31, 1989 through May 15, 1989.
Bronwyn McNeill, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College, University of Dublin. Military History and Regent’s Fellow, assisted with rehousing, conservation and
collections management of Recruitment Posters in military history, June 19, 1989 through October 1, 1989.

<<<Page: 106>>>

Cheryl Megerdigian, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, archived materials from various collections, June 7, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Vicki Meier, Bachelors Candidate. Armed Forces History, participated in a special project to document, photograph and rehouse military headgear and assisted with reorganization of uniform collection, May 9, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Dana Middents, Bachelors Candidate, American University. History of Science and Technology, assisted with entering graphics into on line catalog and with an interactive display, June 12, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Nancy Mitchell, Bachelors Degree. History of Science and Technology, assisted with Native American Culture resource management, June 26, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Todd Mohink, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of Social and Cultural History, assisted with cataloguing movie objects and with the Men and Women exhibit, June 19, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Monica Moore, Bachelors Degree. Division of Musical Instruments, researched black periodicals to discover black perception of Ellington, June 12, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Alexandra Morris, Bachelors Candidate, Cambridge University. Division of Science and Technology, assisted with arrangement of graphics for communications exhibit, July 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Matthew Mulcahy, Bachelors Candidate, Macalester College. Division of Community Life, researched historically black land grant college, May 30, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
John Murph, Bachelors Degree. Studied Afro-American music and jazz with
emphasis on Duke Ellington’s international tours, June 5, 1989 through August 25% 1989.
Kevin Murphy, Masters Degree. Domestic Life, conducted research of 20th century American home life and youth culture and assisted with maintenance of current exhibits and collections, June 1, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Laura Narcizo, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Internship and Fellowship Office, served as assistant internship and fellowship coordinator, September 6, 1989 through December 6, 1989.
Jessie Nicoll, High School, Pittsford Mendon High School. Exhibits Production, assisted with graphics production, July 17, 1989 through August 31, 1989. Sylvia O’Macauley, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, assisted with Duke Ellington
project, June 19, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Allison Paddlety, Bachelors Candidate, Institute of American Indian Art. Armed Forces History, assisted staff with daily office work, October 7, 1988 through December 22, 1988. Graphic Arts, assisted with various work in the division June 26, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Sunae Park, Phd. Textiles, Completed descriptions of newly-acquired objects,
continued survey of early 20th-Century fabrics, assisted mounting a Case-of-the | Month exhibit, April 10, 1989 through July 3, 1989.

<<<Page: 107>>>

Pamela Paulien, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits Design, assisted in developing models and drawings for sections of the "From Parlor to Politics” exhibition, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Stephen Perciful, High School Graduate. Division of Armed Forces, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Lisa Pertillar, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Community Life, assisted in editing and writing annotated bibliography for a gospel music anthology, June 5, 1989 through August 24, 1989.
Diana Plumer, Bachelors Candidate, Case Western Reserve University. Political Documents, performed duties as research assistant, June 26, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Sarah Prown, Bachelors Degree. Community Life, conducted research and collections management for an exhibition on the early history of Rock and Roll, September 5, 1989 through August 31, 1990.
Amanda Quandt, Bachelors Candidate, Taylor University. Public Programs, obtained film_and video excerpts used in video presentations for two special exhibitions, January 23, 1989 through May 4, 1989.
Dwandalyn Reece, Masters Degree. Musical History, conducted research for the Duke Ellington Collection, January 5, 1989 through May 31, 1989.
Sharon Reynolds, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, assisted with the Duke Ellington exhibition, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
William Roche, III, Bachelors Candidate, University of Notre Dame. Design Division,
assisted in research and scale drawing for the "Sesame Street" and the
‘Manufacturing of the M9 Service Handgun," May 31, 1989 through August 20, 1989.
Janet Rockne, Bachelors Degree. Division of Domestic Life, assisted with research in 20th Century youth subcultures, and with cleaning and numbering of exhibits, August 1, 1989 through August 1, 1990.
Ivonne Ross, Bachelors Candidate, Montgomery College. Medical Sciences, assisted
in cataloguing accessioning, photographing and entering into computer data
medical objects to be transferred to other locations, June 19, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Darren Rydstrom, Bachelors Candidate, Biola University. Agriculture and Natural Resources, served as research and collections management assistant, September 11, 1989 through December 18, 1989.
Jacqueline Schraud, Masters Candidate, Armed Services History, catalogued women’s uniforms and studied women on frontier army posts, June 1, 1989 through August 1, 1989.
Susan Schroeder, Bachelors Candidate, Colorado State University. American Indian Program, assisted with the American Indian collection, May 8, 1989 through July 28, 1989.

<<<Page: 108>>>

Nicole Senecal, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Exhibit Design, researched, designed and executed specific elements of the "Who Wears the Pants?" exhibition, January 10, 1989 through April 14, 1989.
Eileen Shapiro, Masters Degree. Political History, researched moving pictures and other film sources at the National Archives and the Library of Congress for the
"Women in Progressive Era" exhibition, July 10, 1989 through September 30, 1989.
Cheryl Simmons, Masters Degree. Archives, researched African-American Diaspora, May 15, 1989 through November 11, 1989. Jolie Simmons, Bachelors Candidate, West Virginia University. Publications and
Exhibit Design, assisted in design, production and inventory control with special
emphasis on the design and production of printed materials, September 11, 1989 through June 1, 1990.
Sara Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Northwestern University. Political History, conducted research and photographic identification on slavery and free blacks in 19th Century America, September 19, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Suzanne Smyrl, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Division of Political
History, assembled and reorganized portions of the Division’s photographic
collections into useful categories or descriptors for the use of researchers, May 30, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Rebecca Sokolovsky, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College. Musical History, assisted with research to develop a bibliographic and vertical research file on Duke Ellington and _his associates, June 5, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Linda Song, Bachelors Degree. Assisted with research
for paper on Afro-Americans who remained in the South during the Great
Migration and acted as curatorial assistant for the "Parlor to Politics" exhibition, June 5, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Christopher Stadnyk, High Schoo] Graduate. Department of Exhibits, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Evan Stoddard, Bachelors Candidate, Miami University, Ohio. Electricity and Modern Physics, organized card catalogue system and photographs and acted as curatorial assistant, May 23, 1989 through August 1, 1989.
Yoonjoo Strumfels, Masters Degree. Paper Conservation, completed an advanced internship in conservation, January 3, 1989 through January 2, 1990.
Pamela Sturmer, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Division of Community Life, researched and developed an exhibit on children of the Cold War,
May 30, 1989 through July 21, 1989. Miriam Thaggert, High School Graduate. Program in Black American Culture,
participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

<<<Page: 109>>>

Jennifer Theiss, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan Art School. Design,
performed basic graphic and typographic work for exhibits, June 8, 1989 through August 8, 1989.
Phillip Thomas, Bachelors Degree. Internship and Fellowship Office, served as assistant internship and fellowship coordinator, September 9, 1989 through December 1, 1989.
Kiley Timperley, High School Graduate. Office of Printing and Photographic Services, participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Christine Truoiolo, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Public Programs, assisted with the production of a scholarly meeting, a public symposium and a small exhibition, January 24, 1989 through May 5, 1989.
Ann Wagner, Bachelors Candidate, Wheaton College. Musical History, assisted with the Duke Ellington project, January 3, 1989 through January 27, 1989.
Stephanie Wahl, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Armed Forces History, assisted with women’s uniform collection, September 6, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Chris Walsh, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Academic Affairs, assisted Copy Editor of the American Quarterly, January 12, 1989 through June 1, 1989. ;
Eric Ward, Bachelors Candidate, Coe College. Public Affairs, coordinated and supervised film crews for press conferences on the Inventors and Innovators exhibit, September 13, 1989 through December 8, 1989.
Janis Weiher, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of the Registrar, assisted with all major functions of the Office of the Registrar, January 10, 1989 through April 20, 1989.
Jodi Westrum, Bachelors Candidate, University of Iowa. Public Programs, served as permissions editor for Columbus Quincentenary book, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Heather Wilcox, High School, Pennridge High School. Transportation, catalogued Pullman train photos on computer, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Cynthia Williams, Masters Candidate, James Madison University. Social and Cultural History and Politica] History, assisted with photographic collection and with the "Parlor to Politics" exhibition, June 5, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Nicole Williamson, Bachelors Degree. Public Programs, conducted research for 1992 Africa Diaspora Conference and served as production assistant for the 1990 African AMerican Aesthic Conference, September 25, 1989 through December d 31989.
Heather Woodcock, Bachelors Degree. Center for Advertising History and the Archives Center, assisted with research on food, cosmetic and public interest
advertising including soft drink, cigarette and over-the-counter medicine ads, June 26, 1989 through August 18, 1989.

<<<Page: 110>>>

Sun Kyung Yoon, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Computers and
Information in Society, assisted with the "Information Age" exhibition, February 2, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
John Alroy, Bachelors Degree. Paleobiology, compiled information on Terrestrial Ecosystem Evolution, July 4, 1989 through June 30, 1990.
Abigail Armstrong, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Anthropology, assisted with inventory, repair and process of a historic film collection, June 7, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Kristina Arnold, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, researched Plains Indian sundance and contemporary Plains Indian art, May 31, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Anne Baird, Bachelors Candidate, Salem College. Naturalist Center, reviewed, edited and updated Learning Laboratory in Human Osteology, January 3, 1989 through January 27, 1989.
Jennifer Baum, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Anthropology, worked with classical archaeology, May 26, 1989 through August 30, 1989.
Timothy Bernardis, Masters Degree. Little Big Horn College. Anthropology, researched and wrote for Crow tribal catalog, July 17, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Kathryn Bohling, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education, prepared educational component for exhibition in the North American Mammal Hall, January 9, 1989 through May 4, 1989.
Leah Bowanko, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Botany, conducted research on the flora of the Guianas, December 19, 1988 through January 6, 1989.
Heather Briggs, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Wertebrate Zoology, worked with systematics of nine-banded armadillos, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Kyllan Brooke, High School Graduate. Department of Exhibits, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Scott Brown, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Anthropology, assisted with preliminary research for Hall of Human Origins, January 9, 1989 through May 12, 1989.
Kenneth Michael] Cameron, Bachelors Degree. Botany, conducted research on the flora of the Guianas, December 19, 1989 through January 2, 1989.

<<<Page: 111>>>

Mariel Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, University of New Mexico. Vertebrate
Zoology, worked with catalogue of American Amphibians and Reptiles
specifically systematics of Sonora Leaf-Nosed snakes, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Elizabeth Cates, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Anthropology, assisted in the laboratory analyzing bones from the Lamb Spring archaeological site, December 19, 1988 through May 15, 1989.
James Chandler, Bachelors Degree. Mineral Sciences, worked with computer specialist in the Global Volcanism Program, May 22, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Monique Chretien, High School Graduate. Vertebrate Zoology, participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Susan Cierebiej, High School Graduate. Marine Systems Laboratory, participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Eileen Collins, Bachelors Candidate, Louisiana Tech University. Vertebrate Zoology, and Herpetology, studied age and size relationships in an Arboreal snake, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Marcia Connor, Bachelors Candidate, Thomas Nelson Community College. Mammalogy, assisted with curating genets, January 23, 1989 through May 15, 1989.
Jill Crook, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Anthropology, compiled data on Pacific Collection donors and performed a bibliographic search on Preznisian art, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Mary Droutsas, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Film Archives, organized,
processed, repaired and prepared archival motion picture collections for
preservation, duplication and storage, January 31, 1989 through April 28, 1989. Randy Emery, Bachelors Candidate, Haskell Indian Junior College. Anthropology,
assembled information relevant to American Indian collections in Smithsonian museums and photocopied all Zuni photographs, June 5, 1989 through August 5, 1989.
David Ernstes, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M University. Botany, assisted with
processing Dr. Elbert Little’s Collection, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989. Neil Fallon, High School, Seneca Valley High School. Anthropology, conducted
research in a skeletal biology laboratory, February 2, 1989 through June 15, 1989.
Jean Fang, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, assisted with Central Plants Collection in_ bone analysis and inventory, June 5, 1989 through August 15, 1989.
Darcie Faucher, Bachelors Candidate, LIU Southampton College. Marine Systems
Laboratory, participated in field project in Goodland, Florida, August 30, 1989 through December 23, 1989.

<<<Page: 112>>>

Carolyn Ferrell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Minnesota. Vertebrate Zoology, worked with Mammalian Species Account, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Lisa Fritzler, Bachelors Candidate, Montana State University. Anthropology, photographed Crow Artifact Collection for catalog, July 10, 1989 through September 8, 1989.
Suzanne Furesz, Bachelors Candidate, St. Mary’s University. Botany, assisted with Living Forest project_and its application to paleobotanical field work,
May 30, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Eric Galm, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, re-catalogued Afncan drums in the collection, analyzed and notated field performance tapes and worked with the Folklife Festival, June 8, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Jania Garcia, Masters Candidate, University of Washington. Anthropology, arranged and described the papers of Helen L. Peterson (Executive Director, National
Congress of American Indians, 1953-1961), April 3, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Antoinette Geoly, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Mineral Sciences, worked with powder x-ray diffraction studies of minerals, June 13, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Gary Gillis, Bachelors Candidate, Pacific Lutheran University. Vertebrate Zoology, worked with Fish Osteology and Systematics, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Jason Grant, Bachelors Candidate, University of Alaska at Fairbanks. Botany, worked with Bromeliad Floristics, May 30, 1989 through August 30, 1989.
Jennifer Gray, Bachelors Candidate, Rhodes College. Vertebrate Zoology, worked with Fossil Birds, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Terry Gray, Bachelors Candidate, State Gleska College. Anthropology, worked on a photo survey, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Timothy Griffith, High School Graduate. Botany, participated in "Intern 89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Susan Grupp, Bachelors Degree. Entomology, illustrated anatomical dissections to assist research on Lepidoptera (moths), December 19, 1988 through March 30, 1989.
William Haigler, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point. Botany, assisted with Graminae curation and with the cytology of Mulhenbergia, May 30, 1989 through August 15, 1989.
Margaret Halloran, Bachelors Candidate, Beloit College. Anthropology, abstracted scholarly articles in preparation for conference on Museums and their Communities, helped to prepare bibliography on Niger and northern Nigeria for_a research project on the history of theater and drama in this region, and
worked with research project on socialization of youth in to adult society, May 22, 1989 through August 20, 1989.

<<<Page: 113>>>

Brian Harvey, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Anthropology, assisted in classical archeology section, May 25, 1989 through August 20, 1989.
Hilde Hein, Visiting Professional, College of the Holy Cross. Education, conducted audience research in the museum and assisted in the development of public programming during the summer, April 10, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
David Hiltz, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, College of the Atlantic. Marine Systems Laboratory, developed and operated living ecosystems for the Space Biosphere Venture Project, January 2, 1989 through March 3, 1989.
Bruce Hoffman, Bachelors Candidate, Humboldt Sate University. Botany, prepared manuscript on useful and medicinal plants of the Tuianas and processed plant specimens from the Tuianas, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Claudia Holland, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, collected and assembled
accession, catalogue, and pertinent information to establish the provenance of
African-Caribbean and African-Hispanic objects located in the Ethnological Collections, August 7, 1989 through September 22, 1989.
Eleanor Holland, Bachelors Degree. Entomology, produced scientific illustrations for publication in research papers, September 5, 1989 through September 30, 1989. Kathryn Hoppe, Bachelors Degree. Mineral Sciences, assembled post-1986 reports
for successor to recently published Global Volcanism 1975-1985, gathered
information about geophysical events and helped to prepare reports for the Scientific Event Alert Network Bulletin, June 12, 1989 through
August 4, 1989.
Natasha Iskander, High School, Madeira School. Exhibits, assisted with the Volcano Egyptian and Nomads exhibitions and conducted photography research for educational programs, September 20, 1989 through June 1, 1990.
Laurie Jeffers, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York. Botany, photographed using the Scanning Electron Microscope, January 3, 1989 through January 13, 1989.
Katherine Jones, Bachelors Candidate. Invertebrate Zoology, drew scientific illustrations for Mollusk_ Department, including carbon dusting, stipple and sketches, June 12, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Miranda Kahn, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Botany, performed anatomical studies of Commelinaceae, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Lawrence Kelly, Bachelors Candidate, California Polytechnic State University. Botany, worked on composite of the Guyanas, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Laurie Klingensmith, Bachelors Candidate, New Mexico State University. Botany, archived botanical illustrations from the department, rematting and creating database, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Francis Koh, High School, Walt Whitman Senior High School. Marine Systems
Laboratory, assisted in maintaining systems laboratory project, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 114>>>

Nicole Lemon, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Anthropology, conducted research, September 18, 1989 through December 8, 1989.
Mia Lerner, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin at Madison. Naturalist Center, organized and catalogued fossil mollusks and developed scientific illustration skills, June 19, 1989 through August 12, 1989.
Marcy Levy, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Anthropology, assisted in developing a bibliography in relation to the Conte Collection of West African textiles from Niger and Nigeria, organized twenty years of correspondences concerning the Lamb Collection of West African textiles and worked with the Dan collection of passport masks and developed a picture library according to ethnic programs, June 1, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Danny Maria, Bachelors Candidate, Fort Lewis College. Anthropology, worked as a computer programmer and with the Navajo History section, May 29, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Kim Meadow, Bachelors Degree. Vertebrate Zoology, worked with Mammalian Species Account, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Carol Mears, Bachelors Candidate, Youngstown State University. Botany, studied,
processed and identified marine algae, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989. Corinne Miles, Bachelors Degree. Paleobotany, conducted fieldwork of Eocene
Period in Big Horn Basin, Wyoming and processed data, July 6, 1989 through September 6, 1989.
Kimberly Moeller, Bachelors Candidate, Stockton State College. Anthropology, assisted in the Conservation Laboratory, February 6, 1989 through May 13, 1989.
Brad Moon, Bachelors Degree. Vertebrate Zoology, conducted research on the
variation in South Pacific island populations of the parthenogenetic and sexually
reproducing gecko Nastus pelagicus, October 17, 1988 through March 30, 1989.
Susan Nahwoosky, Bachelors Candidate, Keuka College. Anthropology, catalogued Comanche collection, May 22, 1989 through August 22, 1989.
James Nieh, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Vertebrate Zoology, studied Allometry in Squirrels, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Andrea Nix, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Botany, documented two data base programs and updated current genus lists and labels, June 9, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
James Nix-Gomez, High School, Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and
Technology. Anthropology, worked with The Powers Phase Project, computerizing information about artifacts from two sites in Missouri_using DBase and Autocard programs, June 26, 1989 through September 4, 1989.
Virginia Norcross, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles. Anthropology, researched for brochure, July 17, 1989 through September 30, 1989.

<<<Page: 115>>>

Anna Nowicka, Bachelors Candidate, University of Warsaw. Anthropology, analyzed historic pottery from the northern Great Plains with special emphasis on the Arikara Indians, September 5, 1989 through September 1, 1990.
Sue Oesterreich, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point. Botany, worked on various lab duties including describing pollen ultrastructure, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Monika Palunas, Bachelors Candidate, Wittenberg University. Paleobiology, performed paleobotanical laboratory work and field work, June 9, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Sunae Park, PhD. Anthropology, improved documentation of the Korean ethnology
collections, especially the early textile collection, August 1, 1989 through January 15, 1990.
Alonso Perez, High School, San Gabriel High School. Botany, assisted in Gramineae curation, July 3, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Patricia Petrivelli, Masters Candidate, University of Alaska, Fairbanks. Anthropology, conducted research in the Aleut collections, April 13, 1989 through June 2, 1989.
Jennifer Phipps, Bachelors Candidate, Muskingum College. Botany, worked on bibliography and update of negatives for Gesneriaceae projects, May 30, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Arifin Pramono, Museum Professional, National Museum of Indonesia. Anthropology, learned and practiced archival techniques to be applied to the Dorothy Pelzer collection, January 16, 1989 through January 28, 1990.
Scott Rawlins, Masters Degree. Anthropology, drew artifacts for publication, and helped to prepare anthropological/archaeological visual materials for publication in the Handbook of North American Indians, July 27, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Rebekah Resnick, Bachelors Candidate, College of the Atlantic. Marine Systems Laboratory, developed and operated living ecosystems for the Space Biosphere
Venture Project, January 2, 1989 through March 3, 1989.
Michael Richardson, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Leslie Sagle, Bachelors Degree. Special Exhibits, assisted with conservation and preparation of ethnographic objects for the "Java Seas" exhibit, June 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Patricia Sansone, Bachelors Degree. Naturalist Center, developed and implemented the "Behind the Scenes in a Natural History Museum" exhibition, October 11, 1988 through December 30, 1988.
Christine Skelly, Bachelors Degree. Vertebrate Zoology, studied patterns of bird variation, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Ferial Deer Skye, PhD. Anthropology, catalogued articles for the Menominee Indian archives project, July 3, 1989 through October 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 116>>>

Denise Slack, Masters Degree. Naturalist Center, performed vanous duties including working with the general public, conducting school group programs, participating in teacher workshops and developing skills on developing hands-on
activities for secondary school science students, July 7, 1989 through August 2, 1989.
Alton Straub, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Vertebrate Zoology, studied Fish Osteology and Systematics, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Ashley Straupe, Bachelors Candidate, Harvey Mudd College, assisted with carrying out survey of visitor interest and attitudes towards exhibit on
human origins and with refurbishing physical anthropology exhibits, June 19, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Stephanie Tannert, Bachelors Candidate, Louisiana State University. Anthropology, assisted with survey data collection and editing to develop an exhibition on
human evolution and assisted in skeletal biology research, June 2, 1989 through July 31, 1989.
Amanda Taylor, High School Graduate. Office of Special Exhibits, participated in "Intern "89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Suroojnauth Tiwari, Bachelors Degree. Botany, studied bio-diversity of the guiana, May 31, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Gerald Tom, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Claudia Walks Along, Bachelors Candidate, Montana State University. Anthropology, photographed Crow Indian Collection for catalog, July 10, 1989 through August 17; 1989.
Courtney Williams, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education, assisted with education packets, materials, tours, public programs and teacher’s workshops, February 2, 1989 through April 30, 1989.
Virginia Wong, Bachelors Candidate, Tarleton State University. Mineral Science, assisted in translation of Banasa Malayora in the Global Volcanism Program, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Lili Xie, Bachelors Degree. Wertebrate Zoology, assisted in translation of scientific articles to English from Chinese_and assisted with SI joint Sino-American
Ecological Survey of Xinjiang Province, China, December 16, 1988 through December 16, 1989.
Tana Yarano, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education, assisted in_preparation and coordination of educational materials and public programs for the "Crossroads of Continents" exhibition, January 10, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Christine Zimmerman, High School, Senneca Valley High School. Anthropology,
analyzed animal bones from archaeological sites in Turkey and Syma, February 6, 1989 through May 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 117>>>

Christi Barnes, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Catalog of American
Portraits, matched photographs of American portraits from major American
public and private collections with appropnate catalog information, February 21, 1989 through May 31, 1989.
Tasha Bassett, Bachelors Candidate, Evergreen State College. Design and Production, assisted with museum graphics, March 27, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Brad Bynum, High School, School without Walls. Library, assisted with library duties, October 4, 1988 through January 18, 1989.
Tracey Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education, developed a
proposal to create a puppet show to serve families on weekends and developed
the February program for the Museum Education Roundtable, September 14, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Anna Choo, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Education
Department, assisted in planning for public programs series, reviewed scripts and tapes, recommended feasibility of programs and assisted in the administrative, technical and logistical aspects of producing public programs
highlighting the permanent collection, June 5, 1989 through July 28, 1989. Amy Commito, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Collections, conducted research
on Chicago World’s Exposition, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Vandy Cook, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Office of Exhibition, computerized exhibition history and assisted with an exhibition, September 11, 1989 through December 1, 1989.
Curtis Cox, High School, School without Walls. Library, assisted with library duties, February 22, 1989 through June 14, 1989.
Jennifer DeSena, High Schoo] Graduate. Office of the Historian, participated in "Intern 789," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Alice Earle, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Design and Production, assisted with production management tasks, September 21, 1989 through December 16, 1989.
Marie Friendly, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Painting and
Sculpture, assisted with research for upcoming exhibition featuring a selection of American paintings and sculpture shown at the World’s Columbian Exposition, May 8, 1989 through July 31, 1989.
Jennifer Gentry, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia. Library, worked with Vertical File material, stack inventory, auction catalogs and performed bibliographic searching, May 30, 1989 through August 30, 1989.
Sarah Goldsmith, High School Graduate. Catalog of American Portraits, organized
phonographs and portrait data, entered data on computer for artist authority

<<<Page: 118>>>

file and researched and verified artist data, June 13, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Katherine Gould, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Painting and Sculpture, assisted with research on group of 18th century Amencan and English portraits and assisted with research for an exhibition on American art shown at the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition, June 19, 1989 through August 6, 1989.
Ellen Grayson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Curator’s Office, wrote labels for painting and sculpture for reinstallation of the Hall of Presidents, September 1, 1989 through December 30, 1989.
Shaunga Hoffler, High School, School without Walls. Exhibition Office, incorporated pending file photographs into permanent files, February 8, 1989 through May 24, 1989.
Bridget Hughes, Bachelors Candidate, Pratt Institute. Exhibit Design, assisted in preparing exhibit layout and working drawings, production schedules and work
requests, contracting and purchasing, September 25, 1989 through January 1, 1990.
Kern Irvine, Bachelors Candidate, Queens University. Library, assisted in operations
of the library including filing, bibliographic checking and shelving, May 5, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Ellen Keiter, Bachelors Candidate, Muhlenberg College. Design and Production, assisted in preparation of scheduling and graphics production work for exhibitions, January 30, 1989 through May 15, 1989.
Judith Kloss, Bachelors Degree. Publications, prepared illustrations and captions for
book on the work of Winold Reiss and assisted with other publications, July 17, 1989 through October 17, 1989.
Jessica Kohen, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Los Angeles. Catalog of American Portraits, assisted work of Career Awareness Program including Artist Authority Database, Southern States Portraits, Portraits of Native Amenicans, and Photographs and published reproductions, June 19, 1989 through September 15, 1989.
Chery] Kramer, Bachelors Degree. Office of the Historian, researched contemporary newspapers, journals and books (1815-1845) for references to portraits of Andrew Jackson, April 4, 1989 through June 11, 1989.
Naomi Kukoff, Bachelors Candidate, Wheaton College. Catalog of American Portraits, performed basic research and verified information on portraits from
public and private collections in California and entered data on computer data base, June 26, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Carey Leue, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Santa Barbara. Curator of Paintings and Sculpture, assisted in research on late eighteenth century Amenican portraits by Copley, West, Stuart, Peale and others that are being
studied for a publication of the National Gallery of Art paintings collection, June 19, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

<<<Page: 119>>>

Camilo Marmolejos, High School, School without Walls. Library, assisted with classification projects, filing and checking bibliographies, September 19, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Elizabethine McClure, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Public Affairs,
performed research in preparation for the Winold Reiss exhibition, developing press contracts, preparing information for background piece for press kits,
handled routine responses to calendar listings and updated scrapbooks, May 15, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Amy Metsch, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Education Department,
developed a proposal for Cultures in Motion Creative Exchange, a series of museum programs and workshops designed to encourage handicapped and non-
handicapped persons interested in Portraiture, June 13, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Elsa Mezvinsky, Bachelors Degree. Prints, assisted the curatorial staff of the Prints and Drawings collection in the original cataloguing of acquisition, June 19, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Vittorio Scala, Bachelors Candidate, Bloomsburg University. Public Affairs,
performed background research on "Portraits of the American Law" exhibition in order to target audience, press contacts, invitees for opening reception and
assisted in sending press information to calendar listings, May 22, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Crystala Sewell, High School, School without Walls. Education Department, assisted with clerical duties, February 17, 1989 through May 5, 1989.
Dina Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University. Curator’s Office, assisted in writing and augmenting research for new labels for paintings and sculpture in the Hall of Presidents, June 12, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Tracy Stewart, High School, School without Walls. Catalog of American Portraits, assisted in maintaining and updating the portrait files, February 13, 1989 through June 16, 1989.
Shiyana Thenabadu, Bachelors Candidate, Scripps College. Education Department,
developed a series of programs and workshops designed to encourage
handicapped and non-handicapped persons interested in portraiture, September 21, 1989 through December 14, 1989.
Claire Tieder, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Curatorial Department,
conducted research for exhibition on American painting and sculpture at the
World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893, September 11, 1989 through December 8, 1989.
Lucile Walker, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Painting and
Sculpture, wrote new labels for all paintings and sculpture for the reinstallation of the Hall of Presidents, February 6, 1989 through April 30, 1989.

<<<Page: 120>>>

Isabella Wiedersich, Freie Universitat Berlin. Catalog of American Portraits,
catalogued collections and performed other vanous tasks including data entry, labeling and filing photographs, assigning names to Artists’ File using D-Base
III_and creating files using auction catalogs, July 17, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Marianna Williams, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College. Catalog of American Portraits, assisted staff with verifying photographic data,
labeling, integrating information into master file and conducting research, February 15, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Laura Woodson, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. History of American Culture, conducted research on Peale family letters, September 6, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Karen Yoder, High Schoo] Graduate. Library, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office
of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
James Baergen, High School Graduate. Fabrication Unit, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Linley Logan, Bachelors Degree. Specimen Packing and Handling Laboratory, packed and crated "Plains Indian Arts: Continuity and Change" traveling exhibit, July 31, 1989 through October 20, 1989.
David Sheldon, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Model Shop, made
molds and casts in fiberglass for the World War I mannequins for NASM exhibition, September 25, 1989 through December 1, 1989.
Joseph Padilla, High Schoo] Graduate. Office of Horticulture, participated in
"Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Heather Baker, Bachelors Degree. Curriculum Programs, assisted in development and implementation of career seminars for interns and assisted in development
of resources for Instructional Resources Program and Curriculum Program, May 30, 1989 through September 1, 1989.

<<<Page: 121>>>

Wahida Mohideen, Museum Professional, National Museums of Kenya. Internships, compiled information on internship programs and opportunities at the Smithsonian Institution and edited material into publication: Internship
Opportunities at the Smithsonian, 1989-1991, January 30, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Elena Maria Neira-Sarmiento, Visiting Professional, Communidad Autonoma de Madrid. Performed in depth analysis of structures and systems of management at science and technology museums and centers and researched development
and implementation of exhibits and public programming in science for all age levels, July 10, 1989 through July 1, 1990.
Nancy Rasenti, Bachelors Degree. Curriculum and Instructional Programs, assisted in development and implementation of museum training workshops and the
identification, compilation and dissemination of wntten materials to support the programs, June 5, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Beth Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, College of Wooster. Program, provided research support for "Views from Space” exhibit, February 2, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Lawrence Delclos, Bachelors Degree. Program, assisted with the "Inside Active Volcanoes exhibition, April 24, 1989 through September 29, 1989.
Evelyn Figueroa, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Education, assisted in research for education resource materials to accompany the
"Contrasts: 40 Years of Change and Continuity in Puerto Rico” exhibition, July 21, 1989 through September 9, 1989.
Melissa Hallman, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College. Program, assisted in research and administration for the advance matemals sent to exhibitors of SITES exhibitions of British and Irish watercolors and drawings and for an exhibition of the work of Austrian Secessionists, June 12, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Zuraidah Hashim, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Assisted in the SITES press office in a variety of duties including compiling press notebooks for exhibitions which are no longer traveling, preparing press kits for upcoming SITES exhibitions and helping at press reviews and the opening reception for "Inside Active Volcanoes," June 12, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Rachel Heller, Bachelors Candidate, Brandeis University. Program, provided research
support for travelling version of "Field to Factory" exhibition, February 2, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Desiree Humphries, Bachelors Degree. Exhibition Production, assisted in research
and administration for the "Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure" exhibition, June 19, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Karen Nichols, Bachelors Degree. Program, provided project assistance for the Tropical Rainforest exhibition, November 14, 1988 through February 3, 1989.

<<<Page: 122>>>

Susie Schnell, Bachelors Candidate, Texas Christian University. Program, provided research support for marketing exhibitions, February 2, 1989 through April 28, 1989.
Becky Sewell, High School, Garrison Forest School. Program, assisted the Publications Director with a variety of projects, February 21, 1989 through March 17, 1989.
Christopher Shrum, Bachelors Candidate, North Arizona University. Scheduling and Exhibitor Relations, provided marketing assistance for the traveling exhibition "Athletes and Heroes,” May 22, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Katherine Swartz, Bachelors Candidate, Marietta College. Public Relations, assisted
in SITES press office in a variety of duties including updating press mailing lists, compiling publicity notebooks for exhibitions ending national tours and
compiling press materials for upcoming SITES exhibition, June 13, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Patrick Boley, Bachelors Candidate, Carleton College. Worked with and researched
educational applications of interactive technologies and assisted in the
compilation of a database of information on the technologies, June 15, 1989 through August 15, 1989.
Cynthia Plue, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Worked with and
researched educational applications of interactive technologies and assisted in
the compilation of a database of information on the technologies, May 30, 1989 through July 21, 1989.
Daniel Prince, Bachelors Candidate, Carleton College. Worked with and researched
educational applications of interactive technologies and assisted in the compilation of a database of information on the technologies, July 6, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Willis Smith, Masters Degree. Obtained an overview of videodisc/CD-ROM instructional technology, October 18, 1988 through January 15, 1989.
Ashley Suhler, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Worked with
and researched educational applications of interactive technologies and_assisted
in the compilation of a database of information on the technologies, June 5, 1989 through August 1, 1989.

<<<Page: 123>>>

Sushama Austin, High School, Georgetown Visitation High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of African Art, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Leta Bennafield, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988 through December 31, 1989.
Rebeccah Bennett, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Victor Bibbins, Bachelors Candidate, Morgan State University. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Rena Brooks, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum and the Office of Folklife Programs, October 3, 1988 though August 31, 1989.
Shadonne Brown, High School, Academy of Notre Dame. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Maurice Chesley, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Edward Christian, High School, Ballou Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, October 3, 1988 through August 31, 1989.
Linda Curfman, Bachelors Candidate, University of Iowa. Special Education
Program, assisted in the development of two issues of a monthly newsletter for adults with limited reading abilities, May 30, 1989 through July 28, 1989.
Debbie Defoe, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Portrait Gallery, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Eric Dyson, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Sharon Edwards, High School, McKinley Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Lanesia Evono, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the
Career Awareness Program at the Archives Center, Museum of American
History and at the Office of Equal Opportunity, October 3, 1988 through August 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 124>>>

Chandanie Girdharry, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, October 3, 1988 through December 31, 1989.
LaTanya Inman, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Demonstration Laboratory, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Janelle Irick, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Zoological Park, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Niambi Jarvis, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
LaShawn Jones, High School Graduate. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of American Art and the National Portrait Gallery, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Nichole Jones, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History and the National Museum of American Art, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Sean Landwing, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988 through May 31, 1989.
Che-Wah Lee, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Deidre Lee, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Zoological Park, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Sharon Lee, High School, Academy of Notre Dame. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26, 1989 through July 15, 1989.
Quentin Mitchell, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, October 3, 1988 through November 30, 1988.
Tracie Mitchell, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Nicole Morton, High School, Kelly Miller Jr. High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the Office of Folklife Programs, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Lisa Myers, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.

<<<Page: 125>>>

Taylora O’Bryant, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the Office of the Registrar, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Elianna Ortiz, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988 through May 31, 1989.
Gregory Owens, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, October 3, 1988 through December 31, 1989.
Semone Reddock, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the Office of Folklife Programs, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Adam Reichman, High School, Edmund Burke High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Deirdre Simon, High School, Roosevelt Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988 through August 31, 1989.
Kori Spriggs, High School, School Without Walls. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Air and Space Museum, October 3, 1988 through August 31, 1989.
Tracey Thomas, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Melanie Wilcox, Bachelors Candidate, Kutztown University. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of Natural History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
April Williams, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Participated in the Career Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, June 26, 1989 through August 31, 1989.
Lisa Williams, High School, Eastern Senior High School. Participated in the Career
Awareness Program at the National Museum of American History, October 3, 1988 through August 31, 1989.
Denise Cronin, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Conducted research on the 25th anniversary of the Festival of American Folklife cookbook September 25, 1989 through December 20, 1989.
Julia Eisenberg, Bachelors Candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Served as
Chief Volunteer Coordinator in the French-American program for the 1989 Festival of American Folklife, June 14, 1989 through July 14, 1989.

<<<Page: 126>>>

Carmelita Hotz, Bachelors Degree. Researched craft items available for sale at the
Festival of American Folklife Museum Shop and developed descriptive labels for these items to inform the public, April 17, 1989 through June 16, 1989. Catherine Johnson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Compiled and
annotated a collection of key documents and discussion notes related to the planning and management of the Festival of American Folklife and assisted in
the coordination of a Festival program, February 13, 1989 through September 10, 1989.
Daniel Lopez, Bachelors Candidate, Prescott College. Conducted research on Native
American History focusing on the Tohono O’Odham Tne, July 13, 1989 through August 9, 1989.
Tammy Pertillar, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Conducted research on ethnic historical document for the "The Hispanic American Festival: The Latino Community in the Making" exhibition and supervised Puerto Rican area
of Caribbean Program of the 1989 Festival of American Folklife , June 5, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Kaota Saepharn, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Conducted research on the verbal dueling of the Iu Mien of Laos and
participated in the Folklore Summer Institute, June 19, 1989 through August 17,51989:
Cynthia Thorn, Bachelors Candidate, San Francisco State University. Assisted with the Hawaiian Program, Festival of American Folklife and the Folklore Summer Institute, June 19, 1989 through July 15, 1989.
Camille Tomlin, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Los Angeles. Conducted research, September 18, 1989 through November 17, 1989.
Natalie Weathers, Bachelors Candidate, Wassar College. Coordinated documentation of ritual dance and musical performances and workshops presented in the
Caribbean Program, Festival of American Folklife, June 12, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Sheri Foley, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Baldwin College. Assisted with daily operations of the office, April 21, 1989.through May 30, 1989.
Orlando Campos, High School Graduate. Participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.

<<<Page: 127>>>

Leslie Logan, Bachelors Degree. Developed a public relations outreach program to the Native American population, October 3, 1988 through September 22, 1989.
William Price, Bachelors Candidate, St. Peter’s College. News Bureau, assisted with all aspects of the News Bureau, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Cardinal Rieger, Bachelors Candidate, Washburn University. Assisted in all areas of the News Bureau, May 22, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Carol Tang, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. News Bureau,
assisted in press releases, press conferences and other duties and assisted in
developing Outreach to Asian American community, June 5, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Ward Elwood, High School Graduate. Participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship Program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Dennis Foley, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Developed technical skills in audio production for broadcast, September 18, 1989 through December 22, 1989.
Curt Lukowski, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Served as Production
Assistant for "Here at the Smithsonian” and other office video projects, March 3, 1989 through May 15, 1989.
Susanne Boeller, Masters Candidate, University of Stuttgart. Acquisitions Division, conducted research on outstanding photographs for Duerer’s Animals by Colin Eisler, September 21, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Margaret Bradford, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Collection of Recordings, conducted research, wrote, edited and proofread matemals related to recording projects, January 3, 1989 through January 30, 1989.
Leezie Kim, High School Graduate. Recordings Division, participated in "Intern ’89", the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, June 5, 1989 through July 7, 1989.
Henry Lincoln, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Smithsonian Books Division,
conducted research, wrote, edited and proofread materials on two publications, IMAGES and BIRDS, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

<<<Page: 128>>>

Mark LeGolvan, High School, St. Johns High School. Production Department,
received an overview of the production department of a commercial magazine, May 15, 1989 through June 2, 1989.
Angela Cox, Bachelors Candidate, University of the District of Columbia. Contributing Membership, worked with James Smithson Society contributors, July 10, 1989 through September 1, 1989.
Marybeth Reilly, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College. Travel Program, assisted in arranging Southeast Texas Bird and Big Bend Tours, September 5, 1989 through December 14, 1989.
Deborah Robinson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia. Travel Program,
assisted with mailings, data entry, and registration for programs, May 22, 1989 through June 30, 1989.
Jill Abbott, Bachelors Candidate, Kalamazoo College. Public Affairs, assisted with daily office duties; prepared and disseminated publicity and information on RAP events; assisted with execution of RAP events, March 27, 1989 through June 2, 1989.
Marisol Espina-Ruiz, Museum Professional, National Museum of Anthropology of Mexico. Studio Arts, identified resources and developed programs on Latin American studio arts and crafts, January 1, 1989 through May 15, 1989.
Alyssa Gasperow, High School, Churchhill High School. Young Associates Program, compiled information to write grant proposals for RAP projects, conducted
audience research study, explored co-sponsorship of programs with non Smithsonian museums, January 31, 1989 through May 30, 1989.
Carol Lillienstein, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Binghamton. Adult Courses, assisted with course development and management and Participated in the planning and management of a major museum continuing education program, June 5, 1989 through August 4, 1989.
Douglas Mossman, Masters Candidate, University of Akron. Public Affairs, prepared publicity and information on all RAP events and disseminated information to media and community, September 5, 1989 through December 1, 1989.
Salina Muellich, Bachelors Degree. Public Affairs, performed various tasks including archiving, preparation of publicity and information on RAP events, dissemination of information to the media and the community and actual execution of PR at RAP events, May 29, 1989 through August 25, 1989.

<<<Page: 129>>>

Christine Multra, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Discovery Theater,
assisted with reservations, development of learning guides, preparation of
promotional materials and assisted performers for Deaf Way Festival and other Discovery Theater, May 22, 1989 through August 18, 1989.
Phoebe Sloane, Bachelors Degree. Public Affairs, archived, prepared publicity and information on RAP events, disseminated information to media community
executed public affairs at RAP events, January 9, 1989 through May 12, 1989.
Filiz Buckley, Bachelors Degree. Drew blueprints of Smithsonian buildings on the
Mall for Archives and for use in publication, March 6, 1989 through June 6, 1989.
Abigail Goldberg, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Assisted with a catalog
raisonne of the architectural history of the National Zoological Park, September 5, 1989 through December 15, 1989.
Pui Sang, High School Graduate. Participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.
Diane Curry, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland, Baltimore. assisted with studio, location, and historic documentation photography, September 15, 1989 through December 8, 1989.
Rachel Gilmore, Bachelors Candidate, Goucher College. Photographic Services, assisted with studio, location and historic documentation photography, June 5, 1989 through August 25, 1989.
Lene Kiit, Visiting Professional, Danish National Museum. Served as assistant to the photographers becoming familiar with latest photographic, studio and lab equipment, November 1, 1988 through January 31, 1989.
Kirsten Levisen, High Schoo] Graduate. Office of Printing and Photographic Services, participated in "Intern ’89," the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education’s national summer internship program, July 10, 1989 through August 11, 1989.

<<<Page: 130>>>

Arnold Lemmon, Visiting Professional, Bingham Young University. Training, acquired
hands-on experience in electronic protection systems, guard operations, protection management, and investigations, May 1, 1989 through June 30, 1989.

<<<Page: 131>>>

Appendix 4 Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1989 During the fiscal year, the Smithsonian Institution Press published a total of 263
publications, including tradebooks, catalogs, brochures, and pamphlets. The following are highlights.
Berkeley, Ellen Perry, editor. Architecture: A Place for Women, June 1989.
Bleeker, Pieter, Atlas Ichthvologique des Indes Orientales Neerlandaises (Atlas of Fishes of the Dutch East Indies) Vol IX. May 1989.
Borden, Carla M. editor. Contempor jan ition: Voi n r
Brooks, Peter W. Cierva Autogiros: The Development of Rotary-Wing Flight. October 1988.
Broun, Elizabeth. Albert Pinkham Ryder, September 1989. Christman, Margaret C.S., The First Federal Congress, 1789-1791. March 1989.
Crouch, Tom D. A Dream of Wings: Americans and the Airplane, 1875-1905. March 1989.
Easton, Elizabeth Wynne. The Intimate Interiors of Edouard Vuillard September 1989.
Ernst, Carl H., and Roger W. Barbour. Turtles of the World, June 1989. Fitzhugh, Wiliam W., and Aaron Crowell, editors. Crossroads of Continents:
iberi . October 1988. Friedl, Erika. Women of Deh Koh: Lives in an Iranian Village. May 1989. Goode, James M. ; f j n’ Apartment Houses. November 1988.
Grove, Nancy. Isamu Noguchi: Portrait Sculpture, May 1989.
Hart, C.W., Jr. and Janice ra me eae ‘ear nary oe of Freshwater : an 2 Aristo 35. April
Henderson, Amy. On the Air: Pioneers of American Broadcasting. October 1988.
Higgins, Robert P., and Hjalmar Thiel. Introduction to the Study of Meiofauna. October 88.
Hirschoff, Paula M., and Neil G. Kotler, editors. Strategies for Combatting Hunger and Malnutrition. aes 1989.

<<<Page: 132>>>

Johnsgard, Paul A. North American Owls, October 1988.
Keil, Harmut, editor. r. : j i i October 1988.
Kidwell, Claudia Brush, and Valerie Steele, editors. Men and Women: Dressing the Part. March 1989.
Lemay, Brian W.J., editor. Science, Ethics, and Food, (Papers and Proceedings of a Colloquium Organized by the Smithsonian Institution). November 1988.
Lentz, Thomas W., and Glenn D. Lowry. Timur and the Princely Vision, May 198. Lopez, Donald S.. National Air and Space Museum: A Visit in Pictures, March 1 Needell, Allan, editor. The First 25 Years in Space. June 1989.
Park, Edwards. Nanette: Her Pilot’s Love Story, July 1989.
Rand, Harry. Paul Manship, January 1989.
Riis, Thomas L. Just Before Jazz: Black Musical Theater in New York, 1890 to 25 September 1989.
Sweeting, C. G. Combat Flying Equipment: U.S. Army Aviators’ Personal Equipment, 1917-1945, May 1989.
Thomas, David Hurst, editor. Columbian Consequences, Vol, 1: The Californias, Texas, and the South western Heartland, April 1989.
Washburn, Wilcomb E., volume editor. yi History of Indian-White Relations: Vol. 4, April 1989.
New Directions in American Art Series
Manthorne, Katherine Emma. Tropical Renaissance: North American Artists Exploring Latin America, 1839-1879 September 1989.
Archaeology/Anthropology Series
Archaeological Inquiry
Dillehay. Ver Plei lement i hil Paleoenvironment a Site Context, aay 1989.
Sampson, Garth C. Stylistic Boundaries among Mobile Hunter-Foragers, November 1988.

<<<Page: 133>>>

Ethnographic Inquiry
Allen, Catherine J. The L Community, October 1988.
Fardon, Richard. Raide October 1988.
Merrill, Wiliam L. Ra ir} Mexico, November 1988
Peacock, games L., ane, Ruel Ww. ey Jr. Filgrims_of Paradox: Calviniem and
Weiner, Annette B., and Jane Schneider, editors. Cloth and Human Experience, August 1989.
Werbner, Richard P. Ritual Passage, Sacred Journey: The Form, Process, and Organization of Religious Movements, June 1989.
Classics of Smithsonian Anthropology Mindeleff, Victor. Introduction by Peter Nabakov. l j
la Bureau of American Ethnology, 8th Annual Report (Reissue). July 1989.
Smithsonian Library of the Solar System Wentzel, Donat G. The Restless Sun, March 1989.
Newman, Debra L., compiler. Black History: A Guide to Civilian Records, February 1989.
With Airlife
Jackson, Robert. Canberra: The Operational Record, May 1989.
Penrose, Harald. An_ Ancient Air: A Biography of John Stringfellow of Chard. February 1989.
With Air Research
Brett, R. Dallas. History of British Aviation 1908-1914, June 1989
Parry, Simon W. Intruders over Britain: The Luftwaffe Night Fighter Offensive 1940-45, June 1989.

<<<Page: 134>>>

With Conway Maritime Andersson, Hans G.. Saab Aircraft since 1937, May 1989.
Swanborough, Gordon, and Peter M. Bowers. United States Military Aircraft since 1909, May 1989.
DIRECT MAIL, Smithsonian Books
Goodwin, Joe, editor. Images of America, June 1989.
Kennedy, Roger, editor mith ri The Dee South, June 1989 The Great Lakes, August 1989 The Mid-Atlantic States, July 1989 Northern New England, May 1989
The Pacific States September 1989 Kopper, ae The Smithsonian Book of North American Indians before the Coming of the Europeans, February 1989.
Lewin, Roger. In the Age of Mankind: A Smithsonian Book of Evolution, June 1989.
Page, Jake, and Eugene Morton. Introduction by S. Dillon Ripley. Lords of the ni August 1989.
Copublished with Marine Mammal Fund
Minasian, Stan. The Magnificent Whales and other Marine Mammals of North America, April 1989.
Copublished with Clarkson N. Potter, Inc. Schick, Ron. lew : j Astr' 2-1972 1988.
Copublished with Stewart Tabori & Chang
Kennedy, Roger, editor. mith July 1989. Kennedy, Roger, editor. The Smithsonian Guide to Historic America: Southern New England, July 1989.

<<<Page: 135>>>

DIRECT MAIL, Smithsonian Recordings
relli: ] j . Performed by Smithsonian Chamber Piayers. Single compact disc, No. ND 035. April 1989
h j i Performed by the Castle Trio. Single compact disc, No. ND 036. April 1989
j i j f ical j Various performers. Five compact discs, No. RD 033. April 1989
American Musical Theater: Shows, Songs & Stars. Various performers. Four compact discs, four cassettes, or six LPs, No. RD 036. January 1989
Jazz Piano. Various performers. Four compact discs, four cassettes, or six LPs, No.
RD 039. July 1989 FEDERAL SERIES
Contributions to Anthropology
31. Laughlin, Robert M. "The Great Tzotzil Dictionary of Santo Domingo Zinacatan with Grammatical Analysis and Historical Commentary." December 1988.
Contributions to Botany
67. Palmer, Patricia G. "A Scanning Electron Microscope Survey of the Epidermis of East African Grasses, V, and West African Supplement." November 1988.
68. Judziewicz, Emmet J. "Morphological, Anatomical, and Taxonomic Studies in and Streptochaeta (Poaceae: Bambusoideae)." March 1989.
69. Soderstrom, Thomas R. "A Revision of the Genus Olyra and the New Segregate Genus Parodiolyra (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Olyreae)." June 1989.
70. Funk, V.A. "A Bibliography of Plant Collectors in Bolivia." January 1989.
72. Soderstrom, Thomas R. "The Woody Bamboos (Poaceae: Bambuseae) of Sri Lanka: A Morphological-Anatomical Study." December 1988.
Contributions to the Earth Sciences 28. Marvin, Ursula B., editor. "Field and Laboratory Investigations of Meteorites
from Victoria Land and the Thiel Mountains Region, Antarctica, 1982-1983 and 1983-1984." February 1989.

<<<Page: 136>>>

Contributions to the Marine Sciences
34. Phillips, Ronald C. "Seagrasses." December 1988.
Contributions to Paleobiology
65. Cooper, G. Arthur. "Jurassic Brachipods of Saudi Arabia." gay 1989.
66. McDonald, Jerry N. "The Autochthonous North American Musk Oxen heri and Gidleva (Mammalia: Artiodactyla: Bovidae)." June 1989.
Contributions to Zoology
466.Chace, Fenner A., Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the _ Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1010, Part 5: Family Alpheidae.” December 1988.
467. Kornicker, Louis S. "Bathyal and Abyssal Myodocopid Ostracoda of the Bay of Biscay and Vicinity." August 1989.
469. Balouet, Jean Christophe. "Fossil Birds from Late Quaternary Deposits in New Caledonia." January 1989.
470. Kornicker, Louis S. "New Ostracoda (Halocyprida: Thaumatocyprididae and Halocyprididae) from Anchialine Caves in the Bahamas, Palau, and Mexico." February 1989.
471. Vari, Richard P. "A Phylogenetic Study of the Neotropical Characiform Family Curimatidae (Pisces: Ostariophysi)." February 1989.
472. Flint, Oliver S., Jr. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies XXXIX: The Genus Smicridea in the Chilean Subregion (Trichoptera: Hydro psychidae)." February 1989.
473. Manning, Raymond B. "The Pinnixa cristata Complex in the Western Atlantic, with a Description of Two New Species (Crustacea: Decapoda: Pinnotheridae)." August 1989.
475. Kornicker, Louis S. "Ostracoda (Myodocopina, Cladocopina, Halocypridina) Mainly from Anchialine Caves in Bermuda." May 1989.
476. Kenk, Roman. "Revised List of the North American Freshwater Planarians (Platyhelminthes: Tricladida: Paludicola)." January 1989.
482. Abele, Lawrence G. "The Decapod Crustaceans of the Panama Canal." March 1989.
483. Kornicker, Louis S. "Troglobitic Ostracoda (Myodocopa: Cypridinidae,
Thaumatocyprididae) from Anchialine Pools on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos Islands." February 1989.

<<<Page: 137>>>

490. Vari, Richard P. "Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus Pseudo curimata Fernandez-Yepez (Pisces: Ostariophysi)." September 1989.
494. McGinley, Ronald J. "A Catalog and Review of Immature Apoidea (Hymenoptera)." August 1989.
Studies in History and Technology
49. Janssen, Barbara Suit. "Technology in Miniature: American Textile Patent Models 1819-1840." February 1989.
50. Vogel, Robert M. "Vertical Transportation in Old Back Bay, A Museum Case Study: The Acquisition of a Small Residential Hydraulic Elevator." December 1988.
American Historical Association American Historical Association Annual Report, 1987, October 1988.
Anacostia Museum
Hutchinson, Louise, and Gail Lowe. Kind Regards of Solomon G, Brown, June 1989. Exhibition catalog.
James, Portia. Th M _ African-Ameri Invention Innov 1619-1930, October 1989. Exhibition catalog.
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Arthur M. Sackler Calendar of Events, Brochure, issued bimonthly.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden HMSG Calendar of Events, Published three times a year.
National Air and Space Museum Archival Videodisc 6 (Lunar Mission Imagery). September 1989.
National Museum of African Art Calendar of Programs and Exhibitions, Published three times a year.

<<<Page: 138>>>

Barley, Nigel. f 2 h } iew Ancestral Screens. November 1988. Exhibition catalog. National Museum of Natural History Atoll Research Bulletin 312-320. March 1989.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education Let’s Go to the Smithsonian. Quarterly newsletter. Art to Zoo, Quarterly newsletter.
Office of Environmental Management and Safety Brochures: rtable P r ] Ground Fault Circuit Materi lin Lockout Welding, Cutting, Brazing Respiratory Protection
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study, October 1988. Fellowships-in-Residence at the Smithsonian Institution, Poster.
Office of the Secretary Bylaws of the Board of Regents. Brochure. April 1989.
Invitation to annual garden party. May 1989.
Smithsonian Year, 1988, April 1989. ithsoni (Microfiche edition). August 1989.

<<<Page: 139>>>

Appendix 5 Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1989
Rumm, John C. "Working Through the Records: Using Business Records to Study Workers and the Management of Labour." Archivaria 27 (Winter 1988-89): 67-96.
Theerman, Paul H. "Edinburgh" and ''Physics" in Victorian Britain: An Encyclopedia, ed. Sally Mitchell (New York: Garland Publishing, 1988).
Animal Exhibit Departments
Beck, B.B. and M. Power. 1988. Correlates of sexual and maternal competence in captive gorillas. Zoo Biology 7:339-350.
Bronikowski, E.J., B.B. Beck and M. Power. 1989. Innovation, Exhibition and Conservation: Free-ranging Tamarins at the National Zoological Park. Annual Conference.
Brown, J.L., D. E. Wildt, L.G. Phillips, Jr.,J. Seidensticker, S.B.U. Fernando, S. Miththapala and K.L. Goodrowe. 1989. Adrenal-pituitarygonadal relationships and ejaculate characteristics and in captive leopards (Panthera pardus kotiya) isolated on the island of Sri Lanka. Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 85:605-613.
Crissey, S., E.F. Stephens, F. Cusimano and S. Derrickson. 1989. A submersible diet for ducks to control disease and cost. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20(1):68-72.
Hitchcock, P., J. Seidensticker and Effendy Sumardja. 1988. Dumoga-Bone National Park: conservation for development in North Sulawesi. A report from the Indonesia 1982-1986 Conservation for Development Pogrammme, World Wildlife Fumd, Bogor. 65 pp.
Marcellini, D.L. and T.A. Jenssen. 1989. Thermal ecology of the tropical iguanid lizard, Leiocephalus schreibersi. American Midland Naturalist 122:44-50.
Miththapala, S., J. Seidensticker, L.G. Phillips, Jr., S.B.U. Fernando and J.A. Smallwood. 1989. Identifying individual leopards (Panthera pardus kotiya) using spot pattern variation. Journal of Zoology, London
218:527-536. Seidensticker, J. 1988. From the ridge of the fan. ZooGoer 17(6):27-30.—----. 1989. Bat cave. ZooGoer 18(4):20-21.
Xanten, W.A., D.S. Kessler and J. Grumm. 1988. Breeding and Management of Prevost squirrel Callosciurus prevosti at the National Zoological Park.. International Zoo Yearbook, Vol. 27 pp. 283-286.

<<<Page: 140>>>

Office of Public Affairs
Bretzfelder, Marc 1989. Artificial Reproduction: A "last hope" for some endangered species. Smithsonian News Service, February.
----, Marc 1989. Panda’s pseudopregnancy reveals valuable information. Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, No. 56 (Winter)
Gibson, Margaret F. 1989. F.B.I. investigates tamarins. Zoogoer V. 18(4):25.
Hoage, Robert J. 1989 Perceptions of animals in American culture. JZoogoer V. 18(4):31.
Morgan, Michael M. 1989. William Temple Hornaday: Visionary of the National Zoological Park. Smithsonian News Service, February. >
Department of Animal Health
Andrews, J.C., J.G. Howard, G.D. Bavister and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Use of saltstored zonae pellucidae for evaluating sperm capacitation in the domestic cat. Proceedings: Serono Symposium on Fertility in Mammals p. 72.
Brown, J.L., M. Bush, D. Jannsen, C. Packer, A. Pusey, S. Monfort and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Influence of age and gender on reproductive and endocrine characteristics in free-ranging East African lions. Proceedings: Society for the Study of Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction, Supplement 1,40:158.
Howard, J.G., S.L. Hurlbut and M. Bush. 1989. Compromised zona binding and penetration of homologous oocytes by spermatozoa from teratospermic domestic cats. Proceedings: Society for the Study of Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction Supplement 1,40:161.
-----, S.L. Hurlbut, C. Morton, F. Morton, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Pregnancies in the domestic ferret after laparoscopic artificial insemination with frozen-thawed spermatozoa. Proceedings: American Society of Andrology, Journal of Andrology 10:135.
----, S.L. Hurlbut, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Sperm function in leopard cats (Felis bengalensis) as measure by in vitro penetration of zona-free hamster ova and zona-intact domestic cat oocytes. Proceedings: Serono Symposium on the Fertility of Mammals p. 79.
Johnson, L.A., A.M. Miller, S.J. O’Brien and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Culture medium and protein supplementation influence in vetro fertilization and embryo development in the domestic cat. Serono Symposium on the Fertility of Mammals p. 79.
-----, S.J. O’Brien and D.E. Wildt. 1989. In vitro maturation and fertilization of domestic cat follicular oocytes. Proceedings: International Embryo Transfer Society, Theriogenology 31:207.
Miller, A.M., L. A. Johnston, S.L. Hurlbut and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Intrafollicular domestic cat oocytes and later corpus luteum function are sensitive to the timing of gonadotropin stimulation. Proceedings: Society for the Study of Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction Supplement 1,40:96.
--—---, M.E. Roelke, K.L. Goodrowe, J.G. Howard and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Oocyte recovery, maturation and fertilization in vitro in puma (Felis concolor). Proceedings: International Embryo Transfer Society, Theriogenology 31:228.

<<<Page: 141>>>

Monfort, S.L., K.D. Dahl, N.M. Czekala, L. Stevens, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Monitoring ovarian function and pregnancy in the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) by evaluating urinary bioactive folliclestimulating hormone and steroid metabolities. Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 85:203-212.
Pontbriand, D., J.G. Howard, M.C. Schiewe, L.D. Stuart and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Effects of cryoprotective diluent and method of freeze-thawing on survival and acrosomal integrity of ram spermatozoa. Cryobiology 26:341-354.
Rall, W.F., M.C. Schiewe, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt. 1989. Cryopreservation of oocytes and embryos collected from wildlife species. Proceedings: Annual Meeting of the Society of Cryobiology abstract 80.
Rideout, B.A., R. J. Montali, R.S. Wallace, M. Bush, L.G. Phillips, Jr., T.T. Antorovych and S.G. Sabnis. 1989. Renal medullary amyloidosis in
Doreas gazelles. Veterinary Pathology 26:129-135. Schmidt, P.M., S.L. Monfort and D.E. Wildt. 1989. PMSG source influences
fertilization and fresh or thawed embryo development but the effect is genotype-specific. Gamete Research 23:11-20.
Tear, J.A., B.L. Raphael, M. Bush. 1988. Pharmacokinetics of intravenous and intramuscular gentamicin in Markhor (capra falconeri). Journal of zoo Animal Medicine 19(3):110-115.
Wasser, S.K., L. Risler and R.A. Steiner. 1988. Excreted steroids in primate feces over the menstrual cycle and pregnancy. Biology of Reproduction
39:862-872. Wildt, D.E. and U.S. Seal. 1988. Editors for monograph, Research Priorities for Single Species Conservation Biology. National Science Foundation,
Washington, D.C.
----. 1989. Strategies for the practical application of reproductive technologies to endangered species. Zoo Biology supplement 1:17-20.
----and K.L. Goodrowe. 1989. The potential for embryo technology in the black-footed ferret. In: Conservation Biology and the Black-Footed Ferret, U.S. Seal, E.T. Thorme, M.A. Bogan and S.H. Anderson, eds. Yale University Press, New Haven, pp. 160-176.
-----, J.G. Howard, M. Bush and W.F. Rall. 1989. Strategies for cryopreservation of spermatozoa from wildlife species. Proceedings: Annual Meeting of the Society of Cryobiology abstract 79.
-----, M. Bush, C. Morton, F. Morton and J.G. Howard. 1989. Semen characteristics and testosterone profiles in ferrets kept in long-day Photoperiod, and the influence of hCG timing and sperm dilution on pregnancy rate after laparoscopic insemination. Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 86:349-358.
Department of Pathology
Armstrong, D.L., R.J. Montali, A.B. Doster and K.R. Kazacos. 1989. Cerebrospinal Nematodiasis in Macaws due to Baylisascaris procyonis.
Montali, R.J. and K. Kelly. 1989. Pathological survey and review of diseases of captive Maned Wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) and Bush Dogs (Speothos venaticus). Proceedings of the International Symposium of Diseases of Zoo Animals, pp. 35-43, Dortmund, Germany.
--—-, R. Wallace, L.G. Phillips, Jr., M. Bush, M. Roberts, S. Crissey, K. Warnell, O. Oftedal, T. Shaugnessy and L. Rabin. 1989. Hepatopathy and hypercholesterolemia in red pandas associated with a diet change. In: Red Panda Biology pp 31-40, SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.

<<<Page: 142>>>

Munson, L., S.K. Chandler and D.H. Schlafer. 1988. Cultivation of bovine fetal and adult endometrial epithelial cells. Journal of Tissue Culture Techniques 11:129-133.
----, S.K. Chandler and D.H. Schlafer. 1988. Long-term culture of bovine trophoblastic cells. Journal of Tissue Culture Techniques 11:123-128.
-----, C.A. Wiley, W.P. Heuschele and D.L. Janssen. 19889. Tremors due to hypomyelinization in a herd of Angolian springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis angolensis). In Proceedings: American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
----and R.J. Montali. 1989. Diseases and Pathology of Great Apes at the National Zoological Park. Proceedings of meeting on "Fertility in Great Apes", Atlanta, Georgia.
Nichols, D.K., M.J. Wolff, L.G. Phillips, Jr., and R.J. Montali. 1989. Coagulopathy in Pink-backed Pelicans (Pelecanus rufescens) Associated with Hypervitaminosis E. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20(1) pp.
57-61. Partington, C.J., C.H. Gardiner, D. Fritz, L.G. Phillips, Jr. andR. J. Montali. 1989. Atoxoplasmosis in Bali Mynahs (Leucopsar rothschildi).
Ramsay, E.C., R.J. Montali, M. Worley, C.B. Stephensen and K. Holmes. 1989. Callitrichid Hepatitis: Epizootiology of a Fatal Hepatitis in Zoo Tamarins and Marmosets. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20(2) pp. 178-183.
Rideout, B.A., R.J. Montali, R.S. Wallace, Bush, M., L.G. Phillips Jr., T.T. Antonovych, S.G. Sabnis. 1989. Renal Medullary Amyloidosis in Dorcas Gazelles. Veterinary Pathology 26(2), pp. 129-135, 1989.
Schiller, C.A., M.J. Wolff, L. Munson, and R.J. Montali. 1989. Streptococcus zooepidemicus Infections of Possible Horsemeat Source in Red-Bellied Tamarins and Goeldi’s Monkeys. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20(3) pp. 322-327.
Department of Conservation
August, P.V., S.G. Ayvazian and J.G.T. Anderson. 1989. Magnetic orientation in a small mammal: Peromyscus leucopus. Journal of Mammalogy 70:1-9.
Berger, J. 1989. Female Reproductive Potential and Its Apparent Discrimination by Male Mammals. Journal of Mammalogy 70:347-358.
-----and M. Kock. 1989. Type I and Type II Errors in the Real World. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 25(3).
Collins, L., C. Wemmer and J. Smith. 1988. The Small Animal Facility at the Conservation and Research Center of the National Zoological Park. International Zoo Yearbook 27:327-334.
Dinerstein, E., C. Wemmer and H. Mishra. 1988. Adoption in Greater Onehorned Rhinoceros Rhinoceros unicornis. Journal of Mammalogy 69:813814.
----» 1988. A review of Wild Horses of the Great Basin by Joel Berger. Journal of Mammalogy 69:206-208.
——=— and C. Wemmer. 1988. Fruits Rhinoceros eat: dispersal of Trewia nudiflora in lowland Nepal. Ecology 69:1768-1774.
----,» C. Wemmer and H. Mishra. 1988. Adoption in greater one-horned rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis). Journal of Mammalogy 69(4):813-814.
Gold, A., S. Tso, P.V. August and W. Wright. 1989. Aquifer delineation using soil surveys. Journal of Soil and Water Conservation 44:232-234.

<<<Page: 143>>>

Haig, S., J. Ballou and S. Derrickson. 1988. Evaluation of Management Options for Guam Rails Using Pedigree Data. Proceedings of the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquarium Annual Conference 507-510.
Holzenbein, S. and G. Schwede. 1989. Activity and movement patterns of female white-tailed deer during the rut. Journal of Wildlife Management 53:219-223.
LaBash, C., D. Walters, P. August and C. Smith. 1989. Standardizing a GIS data base. Proceedings of the Environmental System Research Institute Conference, Redlands, CA.
Lehmkuhl, J.F., R.K. Upreti and U.R. Sharma. 1988. National parks and local development: grasses and people in Royal Chitwan National Park, Nepal. Environmental Conservation 15:143-148.
McCann, A., J. Lemmyon, L. Thompson, and P. August. 1989. A geographic information system study of Block Island soils. Rhode Island Cooperative Extension, University of Rhode Island.
McShea, W.J. and D.M. Madison. 1989. Measurements of reproductive traits in a field population of meadow voles. Journal of Mammalogy 70(1):132-141.
----, 1989. Reproductive synchrony and home range size in a territorial microtine. Oikos 56:1-5.
----, L. Hartman, J. Blew and S. Mabey. 1989. Breeding bird census: Tulip tree-hickory forest. Journal of Field Ornithology Supplement, 60:32.
Schwede, G. H. and Hendrichs. 1989. Mother-infant relations in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Abstracts of posters and papers. Fifth International Theriological Conference, 2:834-835.
----, 1989. A fawn’s life. Zoogoer 18:26-27.
----, 1989. Rote Chorknaben. Das Tier 61-63.
Smith, C., L. Thompson and P. August. 1989. Error in spatial data: A practical view. Proceedings Environmental System Research Institute Conference, Redlands, CA.
Stuwe, M. and K. Scribner. 1989. Low Genetic Variability in Reintroduced Alpine Ibex (Capra ibex ibex) Populations. Journal of Mammalogy 70(2):370-373.
Walters, D.H., P. August and W. Wright. 1989. Legal issues in GIS database development and distribution. Proceedings of the Environmental System Research Institute Conference, Redlands, CA.
Wemmer, C. and R. Montali. 1988. Latrine use and the subcaudal gland of the brow-antlered deer, Cervus eldi thamin. Journal of Mammalogy, 69(4):815-818.
----and C. Grodinsky. 1988. Reproduction in Captive Female Brow-antlered Deer (Cervus eldi thamin). Journal of Mammalogy 69(2):389-393.
-----, T. Halverson, M. Rodden and T. Portillo. 1989. The Reproductive Biology of Female Pére David’s Deer (Elaphurus davidianus). Zoo Biology 8:49-55. ;
----and M. Sunquist. 1988. Felid Reintroductions: Economic and Energetic Considerations. Proceedings of the Fifth International Snow Leopard Symposium, Srinagar, India, October, 1986. Edited by Helen Freeman, pp. 193-205.
----and V. Krishnamurthy. 1989. Methods for taking standard measurements of live domestic Asiatic elephants. Symposium on Ecology, Biology, Management and Diseases of the Asian Elephant. Mannuthy, Trichur, Kerala, India, January 16-19, 1989.

<<<Page: 144>>>

Department of Zoological Research
Allen, M.E. and O.T. Oftedal. 1989. Dietary manipulation of the calcium content of feed crickets. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 20:2633.
Ballou, J.D. 1989. Inbreeding and outbreeding depression in the captive propagation of black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes). In U.S. Seal, E.T. Thorne, M.A. Bogan and S.H. Anderson (eds): Conservation Biology and the black-footed Ferret. New Haven, CT, Yale Univ. Press, Pp. 49-68.
Beissinger, S.R.,.B.T. Thomas and S.D. Strahl. 1988. Vocalizations, food habits, and nesting biology of the slender-billed kite with comparisons to the snail kite. Wilson Bulletin 100:604-615.
Boness, D.J., W.D. Bowen and O.T. Oftedal. 1988. Evidence of polygyny from spatial patterns of hooded seals (Cystophora cristata). Canadian Journal of Zoology 66:703-706.
Boness, D.J. 1989. Review of "American fur seal diplomacy: The Alaskan fur seal controversy," By James Thomas Gay. Journal of Wildlife Management 5S(L)2272-21 3%
Brownell, R.L., Jr., K. Ralls and W.F. Perrin. 1989. The plight of the "forgotten" whales. Oceanus 32:5-9.
Chaudhuri, M., D.G. Kleiman, D.E. Wildt, M. Bush, E.S. Frank and R.B. Thau. 1988. Urinary steroid concentrations during natural and gonadotrophin-induced oestrus and pregnancy in the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 84:2328.
Crissey, S.D., E.F. Stevens, F. Cusimano and S. Derrickson. 1989. A submersible diet for ducks to control disease and cost. Journal of Zoological Wildlife Medicine 20(1):68-72.
Derrickson, K. 1988. Variation in repertoire presentation in northern mockingbirds. Condor 90:592-606.
-----. 1988. Review of "Voices of all the mockingbirds, thrashers and their allies Family Mimadae." Auk 105:822-823.
aan 1989. Review of "The birder’s handbook: A field guide to the natural history of North American birds." ZooGoer 18:28-29.
-----1989. Bigamy in Northern mockingbirds: circumventing female-female aggression. Condor 91:728-732.
Domingues, R.A.P, H.R.L. Pugialli and J.M. Dietz. 1989. Densidade e diversidade de fauna fitotelmata em bromelias de quatro tipos de florestas degradadas. Review Brasil Biology 49(1):125-129, Fevereiro Rio de Janeiro, RJ.
Foose, T.J. and J.D. Ballou. 1988. Population management: theory and practice. International Zoo Yearbook 27:26-41.
Gittleman, J.L. and S.D. Thompson. 1989. Energetics and animal behavior. American Zoologist 28:813-814.
SoS » and S.D. Thompson. 1989. Energy allocation in mammalian reproduction. America Zoologist 28:863-676.
Glatston, A. and M. Roberts. 1988. The current status and future prospects of the red panda (Ailurus fulgens) studbook population. Zoo Biology 7:47-59.
Gradwohl. J. and R. Greenberg (eds.). 1988. Saving the tropical forests. Earthscan Press.
—----and R. Greenberg. 1989. Migratory non-game bird programs of the Fish and Wildlife Services. Audubon Wildlife Reports.

<<<Page: 145>>>

Greenberg, R. 1988. Seasonal plumage dimorphism in the swamp sparrow. Journal of Field Orinthology V. 59(2):149-154.
Haig, S.M., J.D. Ballou and S.R. Derrickson. 1988. Demographic analyses of Guam rails using pedigree data. Proceedings of the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums Pp. 507-510.
------, J.D. Ballou and S.R. Derrickson. 1988. Demographic analyses of Guam rails using pedigree data. Proceedings of the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums Pp. 507-510.
Kleiman, D.G., R.-J. Hoage and K.M. Green. 1988. The lion. tamarins, Genus Leontopithecus. In: Ecology and behavior of neotropical primates, Vol. 2., pp. 299-347. R. Mittermeir, A.B. Rylands, A.F. Colmbra-Filho and G.A.B. de Fonseca, eds. World Wildlife Fund, Washington, D.C.
Kleiman, D.G., B. Beck, J. Dietz, L. Dietz and J.D. Ballou. 1988. Locals help to save tamarins. On the Edge 34:4-5.
-----. 1989. Reintroduction of captive mammals for conservation: guidelines for reintroducing endangered species into the wild. BioScience, 39:152-160.
McDonald, M.V. 1989. Fumction of song in Scott’s seaside sparrows Ammodramus maritimus peninsulae. Animal Behaviour 38(3)468-485.
----. 1989. Technical status survey of two Florida seaside sparrows, and taxonomic review of the seaside sparrow assemblage. Report 32. In: Report to the Endangered Species Office, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Morton, E.S. 1988. The truly long termed trend in populations of the purple martin. Purple Martin Update 1: 20-22.
-----. 1988. Dawnsong of the purple martin. Atlantic Naturalist 38: 38-48.
-----1988. "Innate": Outdated and inadequate or linguistic convenience? Brain and Behavioral Sciences 11: 642-643.
-----and N. Tsipoura. 1988. Song-type distribution in a population of Kentucky warblers. Wilson Bulletin 100: 9-16.
------. 1989. Purple dawn. Purple Martin Update 2:10-13.
-----. 1989. Female hooded warbler plumage does not become more male-like with age. Wilson Bulletin 101: 460-462.
-----and R. Greenberg. 1989. The outlook for migratory songbirds: "Future shock" for birders. American Birds 43:178-183.
Montali, R., R. Wallace, L. Phillips, M. Bush, M. Roberts, S. Crissey, K. Warnell, O. Oftedal, M. Edwards and L. Rabin. 1989. Hepatopathology and hypercholesterolemia in red pandas associated with a diet change. Pp. 31-41 in Red panda biology, A. Glatston, ed. SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.
Oftedal, O.T. and J.G. Gittleman. 1989. Patterns of energy output during reproduction in carnivores. Pp. 355-378 in: Carnivore behavior, ecology and evolution. J. G. Gittleman (eds.), Cornell University Press, Ithaca, N.Y.
-----and R. Jenness. 1988. Interspecies variation in milk composition among horses, zebras and asses (Perissiodactyla: Equidae). Journal of Dairy Research 55:57-66.
-----,» D.J. Boness and W.D. Bowen. 1988. The composition of hooded seal (Cystophora cristata) milk: an adaptation to postnatal fattening. Canadian Journal of Zoology 66:318-322. ;
Ralls, K. and R.L. Brownell, Jr. 1988. Sperm competition in the grey whale. Nature 336:116-117.

<<<Page: 146>>>

------. 1989. A semi-captive breeding program for the baiji, Lipotes vexilifer: genetic and demographic considerations. In: Biology and conservation of the river dolphins, pps. 150-156. W.F. Perrin, R.L. Brownell, Jr., Zhou Kaiya and Liu Jainkang (eds.). IUCN Species Survival Commission Occasional Paper No. 3.
----—--. 1989. Review of "Sounds of silence" by G.B. Schaller. Animal Behaviour 37:1059.
-----and R.L. Brownell, Jr. 1989. Protected species: research permits and the value of basic research. BioScience 39:394-396.
Roberts, M. 1988. The great umwatched urban wildlife in the zoo. ZooGoer Lis 13
-----, K. Thompson and J. Cranford. 1988. Reproduction and growth in the punare (Thrichomys apereoides; Rodentia:Echimidae) of the Brazilian Caatinga with reference to the reproductive strategies of the Echimyidae. Journal of Mammalogy 69:542-552.
-----1989. A survey and analysis of management practices in the North American red panda SSP. In: Red panda biology pps. 129-153. A. Glatston, ed. SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.
-----. 1989. The North American regional program. In: The red or lesser panda studbook, number 5, pps 23-25. The Royal Rotterdam Zoological and Botanical Gardens, Rotterdam.
-----, L. Phillips and F. Kohn. 1989. The common ringtail possum (Pseudocheirus peregrinus) as a management model for the Pseudocheiridae: reproductive scope, behavior and biomedical values on a browse-free diet. Zoo Biology 8:1-20.
Snyder, N.F.R., S.R Beissinger and M.R. Fuller. 1989. Reproduction and demography of the Florida (Everglades) kite. Condor 91:300-316.
—————= , §.R. Beissinger and M. R. Fuller. 1989. Solar radio-transmitters on snail kites in Florida. Journal of Field Ornithology 60:171-177.
Thompson, S.D. 1989. Thermoregulation in the water opossum (Chironectes minimus): an exception that proves a rule. Physiological Zoology 61:450-60.
Warnell, K.J., S.D. Crissey and O.T. Oftedal. 1989. Utilization of bamboo and other fiber sources in red panda diets. In: Red panda biology, pps. 51-56. A.R. Glatston, ed. SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.
Wilson, N., J.M. Dietz and J.O. Whitaker, Jr. 1989. Ectoparasitic Acari Found on Golden Lion Tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia) from Brazil. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 25:433-435.

<<<Page: 147>>>

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “It's Not the Name 'Redskins' That Maligns
Indians," Washington Post, April 23, 1988.
"The Possibilities of the Columbian Quincentennial," Ideas '92, 1 (2) (Spring 1988): 29-41 .
"The Academic Profession and Contemporary Politics," Minerva: A Review of Science, Learning and Policy, 26 (3) (Autumn 1988): 392-415.
""Vexatious Oral Exchange': A Talk to the Dartmouth Class of 1948," Academic Questions, 2 (1), (Winter 1988-89) .
RS ep es NS “Introduction to ‘Context section) of
L'Indianite: Contextes et Perspectives, Revue Francaise d'Etudes Americaines, (Presses Universitaires de Nancy, 13 (38) (November 1988): 319-322.
Handbook of North American Indians, Vol. 4, Indian-White Relations, (editor), (Washington: Smithsonian institution, 198s) 3 838 pp.
"The First European Contacts with the American Indians," in Revista da Universidade de Coimbra, Vol. XXXIV (Lisboa: Instituto de Investigacao Cientifica Tropical, 1988), serie separatas 208: 439-446.
"Anthropological Advocacy in the HopiNavajo Land Dispute," American Anthropologist 91 (3) (September 1989): 738-743.
Keynote Address, Scholarship and Museums: Roles _ and Responsibilities, Proceedings of the Ninth Museum Studies Conference, University of Delaware, April 9, 1988, edited by Bryant F. Tolles, Jr. (Newark: University of Delaware, 1989): 7-17.

<<<Page: 148>>>

Aaronson, M.; Bothun, G.; Cornell, M.; Dawe, J.; Dickens, R.; Hall, P.; Sheng, H. M.; Huchra, J.; Lucey, J.; Mould, J.; Murray, J.; Schommer, R.; and Wright, A. E. “Large Peculiar Velocities in the Hydra-Centaurus Supercluster.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 654.
Adams, F.; Freese, K.; Levin, J.; and McDowell, J. C. “Spectral Distortions of the Cosmic Microwave Background.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 24.
Alpert, Y. L.; Fligel, D. S.; and Yaraslavtsev, A. A. “Spectra and Geomagnetic Pulsations of Complex Shape and Simulation of their Generation Process.” Planetary and Space Science 37 (1989): 391.
Andersen, J.; Lindgren, H.; Hazen, M. L.; and Mayor, M. “The Pre-Main-Sequence Binary System AK Scorpii.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 219 (1989): 142. Anderson, J. D.; Borderies, N. J.; Campbell, J. K.; Dunne, J. A.; Ellis, J.; Hellings, R. W.; Lau, E. L.; Preston, R. A.; Traxler, M. R.; Williams, J. G.; Yoder, C. F.; Chandler, J. F.; Reasenberg, R. D.; Shapiro, I. I.; Berthias, J. P.; Blamont, J.; Linkin, V. M.; Kerzhanovich, V. V.; Akim, E. L.; and Ivanov, N.M. “Testing General Relativity with Landers on the Martian Satellite Phobos.”
Advances in Space Research 9(9) (1989): 71.
Anglada, G.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Torrelles, J. M.; Estalella, R.; Ho, P. T. P.; Canté, J.; Lépez, R.; and Verdes-Montenegro, L. “Ammonia Observations of Outflow Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 208.
Arnett, W. D.; Bahcall, J. N.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Woosley, S. E. “Supernova 1987A.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics 27 (1989): 629.
Avrett, H. H., and Fontela, J. M. “Hydrogen Ionization and Energy Balance in the Solar Transition Region.” In SMM Workshop on non-LTE Radiative Transfer and Energy Balance, ed. S. A. Drake, p. 2-11. Greenbelt, Maryland: Goddard Space Flight Center, 1988.
Babb, J. F., and Spruch, L. “Retardation (Casimir) Effect for a Multielectron Core System and a Rydberg Electron.” Physical Review A 40 (1989): 2917.
Babcock, R. W.; Marshall, H. W.; Reasenberg, R. D.; and Reasenberg, S. “Full Aperture Metrology for High Precision Astrometry.” In Topical Meeting on Space Optics for Astrophysics and Earth and Planetary Remote Sensing, 1988 Technical Digest Series, vol. 10, p. 22. Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1988.
Bailyn, C. D.; Garcia, M. R.; and Grindlay, J. E. “Outflow from the Outer Lagrangian Point: Observations and Models of 4U 2127+12 in M15.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 786.
Baliunas, S. L. “Call for Participation in a Global Network of Automatic Telescopes.” International Amateur Professional Photoelectric Photometry Communications 35 (1989): 12.
“World-Wide Network of Automatic Telescopes.” In Automatic Small
Telescopes, eds. R. Genet and D. S. Hayes, p. 125. Mesa, Arizona: Fairborn
Press, 1989.

<<<Page: 149>>>

. “A State of Astrophysics at Mount Wilson Observatory.” In Report to Mount Wilson Institute Board of Directors. Pasadena, California: Mount Wilson Institute, 1989.
. “Dedication of the 0.75 m APT: Brightness Variations and Magnetic Activity
in Cool Stars.” In Automatic Small Telescopes, eds. R. Genet and D. S. Hayes,
p. 83. Mesa, Arizona: Fairborn Press, 1989.
. “Starspot Cycles and Climatology.” In Foundation for Study of Cycles, Pro-
ceedings of the 1989 Annual Conference, p. 45. Irvine, California: Foundation
for the Study of Cycles, 1989.
. “Long-Term Magnetic Activity Variations of Lower Main Sequence Stars.” In Formation and Evolution of Low Mass Stars, Proceedings of NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. A. K. Dupree and M. T. V. T. Lago, p. 319. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Baliunas, S. L.; Genet, R.; and Hayes, D., eds. Selected Papers on Global Network of Automatic Telescopes, Remote Access and Automatic Telescope Instruction Set. Mesa, Arizona: Fairborn Press, 1989.
Baliunas, S. L.; Pyper-Smith, D.; and Genet, R. L. “Automatic Photoelectric Telescope Service Summer Workshop III.” International Amateur Professional Photoelectric Photometry Communications 34 (1988): 37.
Barnes, P. J.; Crutcher, R. M.; Bieging, J. H.; Storey, J. W. V.; and Willner, S. P. “Orion B (NGC 2024). I. VLA and IR Observations of the H II Region.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 883.
Bartel, N.; Rupen, M. R.; and Shapiro, I. I. “VLBI Observations of SN1986J: A Supernova with an Elongated Radio Brightness Distribution.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 337 (1989): L85.
Bates, D. R., and Victor, G. A. “Alexander Dalgarno: Life and Personality.” Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics 25 (1988): 1.
Benson, P.J., and Myers, P.C. “A Survey for Dense Cores in Dark Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 71 (1989): 89.
Bevilacqua, F.; Merlina, P.; Lorenzini, E. C.; Cosmo, M.; and Bergamaschi, S. “Tethered Gravity Laboratories Study: The Center-of-Gravity Management Concept.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 249. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.
Biretta, J.; Owen, F.; and Cornwell, T. “A Search for Motion and Flux Variations in the M87 Jet.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 128.
Blair, W. P.; Raymond, J. C.; Danziger, J.; and Matteucci, F. “The Ultraviolet Spectrum of an Oxygen-Rich Supernova Remnant in the Small Magellanic Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 812.
Bloemhof, E. E.; Danchi, W. C.; Townes, C. H.; and McLaren, R. A. “High Spatial Resolution 10 Micron Imaging of IRC+10216.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 300.
Bloemhof, E. E.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. “Proper Motions of the OH Masers in W3(OH).” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, . p. 228. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Bodo, G.; Kalkofen, W.; and Massaglia, S. “Methods for 2D Radiative Transfer in

<<<Page: 150>>>

Magnetic Flux Tubes.” In Supercomputing in Astrophysics, ed. F. Vagnetti, p. 56. Astronet Special Publication 88/1. Trieste, Italy: Osservatorio Astronomico di Trieste, 1988.
Bodo, G.; Rosner, R.; Ferrari, A.; and Knoblock, E. “On the Stability of Magnetized Rotating Jets: The Axisymmetric Case.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 631.
Bopp, B.W.; Saar, S. H.; Ambruster, C.; Feldman, P.; Dempsey, R.; Allen, M.; and Barden, S. “The Active Chromosphere Binary HD 17433 (VY Ari).” Astrophysical Journal 339 (1989): 1059.
Bregman, J., and David, L. P. “Alternative Models of Cooling Flows.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 49.
Brissenden, R.,; Tuohy, I.; Bicknell, G.; Remillard, R.; and Schwartz, D. “A MultiWavelength Study of X-Ray Selected AGN.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 199. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Bronfman, L.; Nyman, L.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Largest Molecular Cloud Complexes in the Southern Milky Way.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 139. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Bruning, D. H., and Saar, S. H. “Line Asymmetries in Late-Type Dwarf Protospheres.” In The NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Solar and Stellar Granulation, eds. R. Rutten and G. Severino, p. 145. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Budd, W. F.; Andrews, J. T.; Finkel, R. C.; Fireman, E. L.; Graf, W.; Hammer, C. U.; Jouzel, J.; Raynaud, D. P.; Reeh, N.; Shoji, H.; Stauffer, .; and Weertman, J. “How Can an Ice Core Chronology be Established?” In The Environmental Record in Glaciers and Ice Sheets, eds. H. Oeschgers and C. C. Langway, Jr., p. 177. New York: Wiley-Interscience Publication, 1989.
Caldwell, N., and Phillips, M. M. “Star Formation in NGC 5253.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 789.
Caldwell, N., and Schommer, R. A. “Cepheid Variables in the Phoenix Galaxy and IC 5152.” In The Extragalactic Distance Scale, eds. S. van den Bergh and C. J. Pritchet, p. 77. Provo, Utah: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1988.
Campbell, D. B.; Harmon, J. K.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Radar Observations of Comet Halley.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 1071.
Campbell, A., and Willner, S. P. “Shocked Molecular Hydrogen in NGC 4038/4039, ‘the Antennae’.” Astronomical Journal] 97 (1989): 995.
Carleton, N. P. “The Iota Project.” In Proceedings of the NOAO-ESO Conference on High-Resolution Imaging by Interferometry, ESO Conference and Workshop Proceedings No. 29, ed. F. Merkle, p. 939. Garching bei Munchen, FRG: European Southern Observatory, 1989.
Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; Jones, R. V.; and Beck, J. A. “The Distances and Ages of Globular Clusters.” In Calibration of Stellar Ages, ed. A. G. Davis Philip, p. 31. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1988.
Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; Jones, R. B.; Beck, J. A.; and Laird, J. B. “Is There an Age Spread in the Galactic Halo?” In The Abundance Spread Within Globular Clusters: Spectroscopy of Individual Stars, eds. G. Cayrel de Strobel, M: Spite,

<<<Page: 151>>>

and T. Lloyd Evans, p. 87. Paris: Observatoire de Paris, 1989.
Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; and Laird, J. B. “A Survey of Proper-Motion Stars. VIII. On the Galaxy’s Third Population.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 423.
Catura, R. C., and Golub, L. “XUV Multilayered Optics for Astrophysics.” Revue de Physique Appliqtiee 23 (1988): 1741.
Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D. J.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Observation of TeV Gamma-Rays from the Crab Nebula Using the Atmospheric Cherenkov Imaging Technique.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 379.
Cernicharo, J.; Gottlieb, C. A.; Guélin, M.; Thaddeus, P.; and Vrtilek, J. M. “Astronomical and Laboratory Detection of the SiC Radical.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 341 (1989): L25.
Chance, K. V.; Johnson, D. G.; and Traub, W. A. “Measurement of Stratospheric HOCI]: Concentration Profiles, Including Diurnal Variation.” Journal of Geophysical Research 94 (1989): 11059.
Chandler, J. F.; Babcock, R. W.; and Reasenberg, R. D. “POINTS: A Stringent Test of General Relativity.” In Topical Meeting on Space Optics for Astrophysics and Earth and Planetary Remote Sensing, 1988 Technical Digest Series, vol. 10, p. 19. Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1988.
Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Friedman, R. S.; Dalgarno, A.; and Parkinson, W. H. “The Shumann-Runge Absorption Bands of !®0!8O in the Wavelength Region 175-205 nm and Spectroscopic Constants of Isotopic Oxygen Molecules.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 134 (1989): 362.
Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Wavelength Measurements and Analysis of the Schumann-Runge Bands of 180, in the Region 175-205 nm.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 131 (1988): 96.
Chlebowski, T. “X-Ray Emission from O-Type Stars: Parameters Which Affect It.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1988): 1091.
Chlebowski, T.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Sciortino, S. “The Einstein X-Ray Observatory Catalog of O-Type Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 427.
Churchwell, E., and Wood, D. O. S. “The Population and Distribution of Massive Stars Embedded in Galactic Molecular Clouds.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 87. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Coker, R.; Madore, B.; Mould, J.; Oke, J. B.; Picard, A.; Huchra, J.; and Latham, D. “The Radii of Long Period Cepheids.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 101 (1989): 594.
Collura, A.; Sciortino, S.; Serio, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and Rosner, R. “Variability of X-Ray Emission from OB Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 296.
Cooper, D. L., and Kirby, K. “Theoretical Study of the (3s@) Il] Rydberg State of CO.” Chemical Physics Letters 152 (1988): 393.
Cornell, J. C. (editor). Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Coyle, L. M., and Mattison, E. M. “A Microcomputer-Based Adaptive Data Logging

<<<Page: 152>>>

System.” In Proceedings of the 35th International Instrumentation Symposium, p. 285. Research Triangle Park, North Carolina: Instrument Society of America, 1989.
Cudworth, K., and Peterson, R. “Astrometric Distances of Globular Clusters.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 100 (1989): 1219.
Cutri, R. M.; Low, F. J.; Kleinmann, S. G.; Olszewski, E. W.; Willner, S. P.; Campbell, B.; and Gillett, F. C. “SSC 08546+1732: A Faint, Dust-Enshrouded Carbon Star at High Galactic Latitude.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 866.
da Costa, L. N.; Pelligrini, P. S.; Willmer, C.; de Carvalho, R.; Maia, M.; Latham, D. W.; and Geary, J. G. “The ON-CfA Redshift Survey of the Southern Hemisphere.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 315.
da Costa, L. N.; Pelligrini, P. S.; Willmer, C.; and Latham, D. W. “A First Glimpse of a Southern Redshift Slice.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 20.
Dame, T. M. “A Composite CO Survey of the Entire Milky Way.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and External Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 309. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1988.
. “A Complete CO Survey of the Large Magellanic Cloud.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 245. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
David, L. P., and Bregman, J. “The Effects of Magnetic Fields on the Growth of Thermal Instabilities in Cooling Flows.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 97.
de Lapparent, V.; Geller, M.; and Huchra, J. “The Luminosity Function for the CfA Redshift Survey Slices.” Astrophysical Journal 343 (1989): 1.
DiPippo, S.; Grossi, M. D.; and Lorenzini, E. C. “The Use of SPIDER in Conjunction with TSS.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 418. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.
Ebstein, S. M.; Carleton, N. P.; and Papaliolios, C. “Speckle Imaging of NGC 1068 and NGC 4151 in the 5007 A Line and Nearby Continuum.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 103.
Elgered, G.; Davis, J. L.; Herring, T. A.; and Shapiro, I. I. “The Effects of WVR Data from Onsala on the Repeatability of Baseline Length Determination.” In Proceedings of the 6th Working Group Meeting on European VLBI for Geodesy and Astrometry, ed. P. Tomasi, p. 95. Bologna: Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Instituto di Radioastronomia, 1988.
Elvis, M.; Lockman, F. J.; and Wilkes, B. J. “Accurate Galactic Nq Values Toward Quasars and AGN.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 77.
Elvis, M.; McDowell, J.; and Wilkes, B.J. “The Infrared and X-Ray Continuum of Quasars: Is There a Connection?” In Active Galactic Nuclei, IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 184. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Escalante, V.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Moran, J. M.; and Canté, J. “The Asymmetrical Profile of the H76a Line Emission from MWC349.” Revista Mexicana de Astronomia y Astrofisica 17 (1989): 11.
Esser, R., and Withbroe, G. L. “Line of Sight Effects on Spectroscopic Measurements

<<<Page: 153>>>

in the Inner Solar Wind Region.” Journal of Geophysical Research 94 (1989): 6886.
Estes, R. D. “Ionospheric Wave Propagation From An Electrodynamic Tethered Satellite System.” In Proceedings of the National Radio Science Meeting USNC/ URSI, p. 81. Boulder, Colorado: URSI, 1989.
. “Calculating the Electromagnetic Field on the Earth due to an Electrodynamic Tethered System in the Ionosphere.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 41. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.
Fabbiano, G. “Low-Activity Nuclei in Spiral Galaxies.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 517. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
“X-Rays from Normal Galaxies.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics 27 (1989): 87.
Fabricant, D. “The Decaspec: A Fiber Optic Manipulator for Multi-Object Spectroscopy.” In Fiber Optics in Astronomy, Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference Series, ed. S. C. Barden, vol. 3, p. 170. San Francisco: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1988.
Fabricant, D.; Kent, S. M., and Kurtz, M. J. “A Combined Optical/X-Ray Study of the Galaxy Cluster Abell 2256.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 77.
Fegan, D. J.; Cawley, M. F.; Gibbs, K.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; Smyth, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search for a 12.59 ms Pulsar in Cygnus X-3.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 211 (1989): Ll.
Feller, W. B.; Cook. L. M.; Fraser, G. W.; Pearson, J. F.; Murray, S. S.; and Garcia, M. R. “Low Noise Microchannel Plates.” In Image Intensification, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1072, ed. I. P. Csorba, p. 138. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.
Field, G. B. “Recent Developments in Cosmology.” In Niels Bohr: Physics and the World, Proceedings of the Niels Bohr Centennial Symposium (American Academy of Arts and Sciences), eds. H. Feshback, T. Matsui, and A. Oleson, p. 157. New York: Harwood Academic Publishers, 1988.
Field, G. B., and Walker, T. P. “Radiative Decays of Massive Relic Particles and the Submillimeter Background.” Physical Review Letters 63 (1989): 117.
Fireman, E. L. “Uranium Series Dating of Tephra-Banded Allan Hills Ice.” In Proceedings of the 13th Symposium on Antarctic Meteorites, ed. K. Yanai, p. 1. Tokyo: National Institute of Polar Research, 1988.
. “Ice Chronology at Meteorite Stranding Sites, Antarctica.” Antarctic Journal of the United States Annual Review Issue (1988): 75.
Fireman, E. L., and Beukens, R. P. “Carbon-14 Production by 155 Mev Protons in Meteorites.” In Lunar and Planetary Science Conference XX, p. 291. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Science Institute, 1989.
Fleming, T. A.; Gioia, I. M.; and Maccacaro, T. “The Relation between X-Ray Emission and Rotation in Late-Type Stars from the Perspective of X-Ray Selection.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 1011.
. “X-Ray Selected Candidates for the RS CVn and W UMa Classes of Binary
Stars.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 692.

<<<Page: 154>>>

Franklin, F. A.; Lecar, M.; and Soper, P. “Note on the Original Distribution of the Asteroids.” Icarus 79 (1989): -223.
Garay, G.; Moran, J. M.; and Haschick, A. D. “The Orion-KL Super Water Maser.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 244.
Garcia, M. R.; Bailyn, C. D.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Molnar, L. A. “Is 4U2129+47 (= V1727 Cygnus) a Triple System?” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 341 (1989): L75.
Garcia, M. R.; Chappell, J. H.; Murray, S. S.; Feller, W. B.; and Fraser, G. W. “Low Noise Microchannel Plate Detectors for X-Ray Astronomy.” In X-Ray Instrumentation in Medicine and Biology, Plasma Physics, Astrophysics, and Synchrotron Radiation, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1140, ed. R. Denattar, p. 101. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.
Gardner, L. D.; Kohl, J. L.; Savin, D. W.; and Young, A. R. “Experiment on Electron Impact Excitation and Dielectronic Recombination at Harvard-Smithsonian.” Journal de Physique 50 (1989): C1-405.
Gavazzi, G., and Trinchieri, G. “Near-Infrared Observations of Galaxies in the Coma Supercluster.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 718.
Geller, M. “Mapping the Universe: Redshifts and Standard Candles.” In Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology, ed. J. Cornell, p. 50. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Geller, M. J., and Huchra, J. P. “Galaxy and Cluster Redshift Surveys.” In Large Scale Motions in the Universe, eds. V. Rubin and G. Coyne, p. 3. Princeton: Princeton University, 1989.
Gingerich, O. “Sacrobosco as a Textbook.” Journal for the History of Astronomy 19 (1988): 269.
. “Introduction to John Bevis.” In Atlas Celeste. Norfolk, England: Archival
Facsimiles, Ltd., 1987.
. “J. L. E. Dreyer and His NGC.” Sky and Telescope 76 (1988): 621.
. “A Scholarly Partnership with the Book Trade.” AB Bookman’s Weekly 82
(1988): 2447.
. “Reflections on the Role of Archaeoastronomy in the History of Astronomy.” In World Archaeoastronomy, Proceedings of Second Oxford Conference on Archaeoastronomy, ed. A. F. Aveni, p. 38. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Schild, R. E.; Stocke, J. T.; and Wolter, A. “X-Ray Selected AGN from the Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 203. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Golub, L., and Herant, M. “Analysis of the 23 June 1988 Flare Using Normal Incidence X-Ray Telescope Multilayer X-Ray Images.” In X-Ray/EUV Optics for Astronomy and Microscopy, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1160, ed. R. B. Hoover, p. 629. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.
Goodman, A. A.; Crutcher, R. M.; Heiles, C.; Myers, P. C.; and Troland, T. H.

<<<Page: 155>>>

“Measurement of Magnetic Field Strength in the Dark Cloud Barnard 1.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 338 (1989): L61.
Goodman, A. A., and Myers, P. C. “Magnetic and Virial Equilibrium in Molecular Clouds.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and External Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 128. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Goodman, A. A.; Myers, P. C.; Crutcher, R. M.; Heiles, C.; Kazés, I.; and Troland, T. H. “Measurement of the Magnetic Field in the Molecular Cloud Bl.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 182. Berlin: SpringerVerlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Gorenstein, M. V.; Cohen, N. L.; Shapiro, I. I.; Rogers, A. E E.; Bonometti, R. J.; Falco, E. E.; Bartel, N.; and Marcaide, J. M. “VLBI Observations of the Gravitational Lens System 0957+561: Structure and Relative Magnification of the A and B Images.” Astrophysical Journal 334 (1988): 42.
Gottlieb, C. A.; Vrtilek, J. M.; and Thaddeus, P. “Laboratory Measurement of the Rotational Spectrum of SiCC.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 343 (1989): L29.
Graessle, D. E.; Prager, S. C.; and Dexter, R. N. “Tokamak Magnetic Turbulence Over the Safety-Factor Range 0.6 j; q ; 3.” Physical Review Letters 62 (1989): 535.
Green, D. W. E. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 10 (1988).
. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 11 (1989).
Grindlay, J.; Bailyn, C.; Mathieu, R. D.; and Latham, D. W. “Radial Velocity Study of NGC 6712.” In Globular Cluster Systems in Galaxies, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 126, eds. J. E. Grindlay and A. G. D. Philip, p. 659. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Grossi, M. D. “Computer-Aided Data Acquisition System for Experiments on the Detectability of Weakly-Interacting Particles.” In Proceedings of the National Radio Science Meeting USNC/URSI, p. 99. Boulder, Colorado: URSI, 1989.
. “Spaceborne Tethers as High-Power Orbiting Radiators of E.M. Waves from
ULF to VLF.” In Proceedings of the National Radio Science Meeting USNC/
URSI, p. 82. Boulder, Colorado: URSI, 1989.
“A New Class of Large-Size, Spaceborne Antennas Based on Tether Tech-
nology.” In NSF Workshop on Future Directions in Electromagnetic Research,
Progress In Electromagnetic Research Symposium (PIERS), p. 330. Cambridge, Massachusetts: PIERS Office, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1989.
Grossi, M. D., and Lorenzini, E. C. “One-Dimensional Tethers and Two-Dimensional Tethered Structures as Spaceborne Antennas for Radio Communications in the Bands ULF-to-VLF.” In Proceedings of the 27th Aerospace Sciences Meeting, paper AIAA 89-0676. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.
Gullahorn, G. E. “Spatial Density Variations in the Lower Thermosphere from Tethered
Satellite Drag.” EOS, Transactions, American Geophysical Union 69 (1988): 1345.
“Atmospheric Density Variations via Tethered Satellite Drag.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 130. Washington, DC: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.

<<<Page: 156>>>

Guth, A. H. “Starting the Universe: The Big Bang and Cosmic Inflation.” In Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology, ed. J. Cornell, p. 105. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Also published as “The Birth of the Cosmos.* In Origins and Extinctions, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and P. H. Raven, p. 1. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1988.
Guth, A. H., and Steinhardt, P. J. “The Inflationary Universe.” In The New Physics, ed. P. Davies, p. 34. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Gwinn, C. R.; Cordes, J. M.; Bartel, N.; Wolszczan, A.; and Mutel, R. L. “VLBI Observations of a Pulsar’s Scattering Disk.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 334 (1988): L13.
“VLBI Observations of the Scattering Disk of Pulsar 1933+16.” In Radio Wave Scattering in the Interstellar Medium, eds. J. M. Cordes, B. J. Rickett, and D. C. Backer, p. 129. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1988.
Gwinn, C. R.; Moran, J. M.; and Reid, M. J. “Interstellar Scattering of Radiation from H»)O Masers in W49 and Sgr B2.” In Radio Wave Scattering in the Interstellar Medium, eds. J. M. Cordes, B. J. Rickett, and D. C. Backer, p. 106. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1988.
Gwinn, C. R.; Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; Schneps, M. H.; Genzel, R.; and Downes, D. “Proper Motions of Hj>O Masers in W49(N) and the Distance to the Galactic Center.” In The Center of the Galaxy, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 136, ed. M. Morris, p. 47. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Habbal, S. R.; Ellman, N. E.; and Gonzalez, R. “Synthesis Mapping of a Solar Type I Storm Simultaneously at 90 and 20 Centimeters with the VLA.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 594.
Harmon, J. K.; Campbell, D. B.; Hine, A. A.; Shapiro, I. I.; and Marsden, B. G. “Radar Observations of Comet IRAS-Araki-Alcock (1983d).” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 1071.
Harnden, F. R., Jr., and Seward, F. D. “The X-Ray Environment of the Precursor of SN1987A.” In Supernova 1987A in the Large Magellani¢ Cloud, Proceedings of the Fourth George Mason Astrophysics Workshop, eds. M. Kafatos and A. G. Michalitsianos, p. 408. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1988.
Harris, D. E. “Bremsstrahlung from Radio Source Electrons.” In Proceedings of the Gamma Ray Observatory Science Workshop, ed. W. Neil Johnson, p. 4. Greenbelt, Maryland: Goddard Space Flight Center, 1989.
Hartigan, P. “The Visibility of the Mach Disk and the Bow Shock of a Stellar Jet.” Astrophysical Journal 339 (1989): 987.
Hartmann, L., and Kenyon, S. J. “Accretion Disks Around Young Stars.” In Formation and Evolution of Low-Mass Stars, eds. A. K. Dupree and M. T. V. T. Lago, p. 163. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Hartmann, L.; Kenyon, S. J.; Hewett, R.; Edwards, S.; Strom, K. M.; Strom, S. E.; and Stauffer, J. R. “Pre-Main Sequence Disk Accretion in Z Canis Majoris.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 1001.
Hartmann, L., and Raymond, J. C. “Wind-Disk Shocks Around T Tauri Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 903.
Hartmann, L., and Stauffer, J. R. “Additional Measurements of Pre-Main Sequence

<<<Page: 157>>>

Rotation.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 873.
Ho, P. T. P.; Turner, J. L.; Fazio, G. G.; and Willner, S. P. “Excess 10-1m Emission in Extragalactic Nuclei.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 135.
Huchra, J. P. “On Infall Into the Virgo Cluster.” In The Extragalactic Distance Scale, eds. S. van den Bergh and C. J. Pritchet, p. 257. Provo, Utah: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1989.
“Redshift Surveys and the Description of Clustering in the Universe.” In Large Scale Structure and Its Relation to Clusters of Galaxies, ed. J. Dickey, p 41. Provo, Utah: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1989.
Hughes, J. P. “The Mass of the Coma Cluster: Combined X-Ray and Optical Results.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1988): 21.
Hughes, J. P.; Schwartz, D. A.; Worrall, D. M.; and Zombeck, M. V. ”Derivation of Requirements for Calibrating the Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility (AXAF) Telescope.” In X-Ray Instrumentation in Astronomy IJ, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 982, ed. L. Golub, p. 380. Bellingham, Washington: Society of PhotoOptical Instrumentation Engineers, 1988.
Ito, K.; Ueda, K.; Namioka, T.; Yoshino, K.; and Morioka, Y. “High-Resolution Absorption Spectrum of Ne I in the Region of 565-595 A.” Journal of the Optical Society of America B 5 (1988): 2006.
Jaye, D.; Tresch-Fienberg, R.; Fazio, G. G.; Gezari, D. Y.; Hoffmann, W. F.; Lamb, G. M.; Shu, P. K.; and McCreight, C. R. “Images of the 10-Micron Source in the Cygnus Egg.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 809.
Jones, R. V.; Carney, B. W.; and Latham, D. W. “The Baade-Wesselink Method and the Distances to RR Lyrae Stars. VI. The Field Stars RS Bootis, TW Herculis, VY Serpentis, and UU Virginis, and the Absolute Magnitudes of RR Lyrae Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 332 (1988): 206.
Kalkofen, W.; Bodo, G.; Massaglia, S.; and Rossi, P. “2D Flux Tube in Radiative Equilibrium.” In Solar and Stellar Granulation, eds. R. J. Rutten and G. Severino, p. 571. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Kallman, T.; Krolik, J.; and Wilkes, B. “Quasar Emission Line Profile Modelling.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 131. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Karovska, M.; Koechlin, L.; Nisenson, P.; Papaliolios, C.; and Standley, C. “Evidence for Asymmetries in SN 1987A.” In Highlights in Astronomy, ed. W. Liller, vol. 8, p. 352. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
“Measurements of the Diameter of the LMC Supernova SN1987A.” eases Journal 340 (1989): 435.
Kent, S. M., and Falco, E. E. “A Model for the Gravitational Lens System 2237+0305.” Astrophysical Journal 96 (1988): 1570.
Kenyon, S. J. “The Cool Components of Symbiotic Stars II. Infrared Photometry.” Astronomical Journal 96 (1989): 337.
Kenyon, S. J., and Garcia, M. R. “Spectroscopic Orbits II]. TX Cvn.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 194.
Kenyon, S. J., and Hartmann, L. “High Resolution Infrared Spectra of FU Orionis Variables: Keplerian Rotation and Mass Loss.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989):

<<<Page: 158>>>

1134.
Kenyon, S. J.; Hartmann, L.; Imhoff, C. L.; and Cassatella, A. “Ultraviolet Spectroscopy of Pre-Main Sequence Accretion Disks.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 925.
Kim, D.-W.; Gahathakurta, P.; van Gorkom, J. H.; Jura, M.; and Knapp, G. R. “HI Observations of the Elliptical Galaxies NGC 2974 and NGC 5018.” Astrophysical Journal 330 (1988): 684.
Kirby, K., and Cooper, D. L. “Theoretical Study of Low-Lying 15+ and !II States of CO. I. Transition Dipole Moments, Oscillator Strengths and Radiative Lifetime.” Journal of Chemical Physics 90 (1989): 4895.
Kirby, K., and van Dishoeck, E. F. “Photodissociation Processes in Diatomic Molecules of Astrophysical Interest.” Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics 25 (1988): 437.
Knapp, G. R.; Sutin, B. M.; Phillips, T. G.; Ellison, B. N.; Keene, J. B.; Leighton, R. B.; Masson, C. R.; Steiger, W.; Veidt, B.; and Young, K. “CO Emission from Evolved Stars and Protoplanetary Nebulae.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 822.
Koch, D. G.; Melnick, G. J.; Fazio, G. G.; Rieke, G. H.; Low, F. J.; Hoffmann, W.; Young, E. T.; Urban, E. W.; Simpson, J. P.; Witteborn, F. C.; Gautier, T. N., III; and Poteet, W. “Overview of Measurements from the Infrared Telescope on Spacelab-2.” Astrophysical Letters and Communications 27 (1988): 211.
Kohl, J. L.; Noci, G.; Hartmann, L. W.; Raymond, J. C.; van Ballegooijen, A. A.; Weiser, H.; Withbroe, G. L.; Antonnuci, E.; Geiss, J.; Gloeckler, G.; Hollweg, J. V.; Huber, M. C. E.; Livi, S.; Rosner, R.; and Tondello, G. “‘UVCS’ —An Ultraviolet Coronograph Spectrometer for SOHO.” In The SOHO Mission — Scientific and Technical Aspects of the Instruments, European Space Agency Special Publication 1104. Paris: European Space Agency, 1989.
Kozai, Y.; Marsden, B. G.; Roemer, E.; Arlot, Y.; and Millis, R. “IAU Commission 20.” In Reports on Astronomy, vol. XXA, ed. J.-P. Swings, p. 195. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Krolik, J. H., and Raymond, J. C. “Measuring Hp and qg with X-Ray Lines from Galaxy Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 335 (1989): L39.
Kwok, P. W.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Hillas, A. M.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Observation of TeV Gamma-Rays from the Crab Nebula.” In Cosmic Gamma Rays, Neutrinos and Related Astrophysics, Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. M. M. Shapiro and J. P. Wefel, vol. 270, p. 245. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
. “Observation of TeV Gamma Rays from the Crab Nebula and PSR0531.” In Timing Neutron Stars, Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. H. Ogelman and E. P. J. van der Heuvel, vol. 262, p. 375. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Lacasse, M. G., and Traub, W. A. “Glass Compensation for an Air Filled Delay Line.” In Proceedings of the NOAO-ESO Conference on High-Resolution Imaging
by Interferometry, ESO Conference and Workshop Proceedings No. 29, ed. F. Merkle, p. 959. Garching bei Munchen, FRG: European Southern Observatory,

<<<Page: 159>>>

1989.
Lacey, C. G. “Gravitational Instability in a Primordial Collapsing Gas Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 612.
Laird, J. B.; Rupen, M. P.; Carney, B. W.; and Latham, D. W. “The Halo Metallicity Distribution Function.” In The Abundance Spread Within Globular Clusters: Spectroscopy of Individual Stars, eds. G. Cayrel de Strobel, M. Spite, and T. Lloyd Evans, p. 37. Paris: Observatoire de Paris, 1989.
“A Survey of Proper-Motion Stars. VII. The Halo Metallicity Distribution Function.” Astronomical Journal 96 (1988): 1908.
Latham, D. W.; Mazeh, T.; Carney, B. W.; McCrosky,.R. E.; Stefanik, R. P.; and Davis, R. J. “New Orbital Solutions for Spectroscopic Binaries in the Halo and the Prospects for a New Determination of the Age of the Galaxy.” In Calibration of Stellar Ages, ed. A. G. Davis Philip, p. 185. Schenectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1988.
Latham, D. W.; Mazeh, T.; Stefanik, R. P.; Mayor, M.; and Burki, G. “The Unseen Companion of HD114762: A Probable Brown Dwarf.” Nature 339 (1989): 38.
Laughlin, C., and Victor, G. A. “Model-Potential Methods.” Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics 25 (1988): 163.
Lazaref, B.; Castets, A.; Kim, D.-W.; and Jura, M. “Discovery of CO Emission from NGC 1275.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 336 (1989): L13.
Lee, C. W.; Mathieu, R. D.; and Latham, D. W. “Two Spectroscopic Binaries in the Open Cluster M11 and Their Implication for the Cluster Distance Modulus.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 1710.
Lepp, S., and Dalgarno, A. “Heating of Interstellar Gas by Large Molecules or Small Grains.” Astrophysical Journal 335 (1988): 769.
Lightman, A. P. “Discovering the Universe: An Introduction.” In Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time: The New Cosmology, ed. J. Cornell, p. 1. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Lightman, A. P., and Press, W. H. “Surfaces of Constant Redshift in an Inflationary Universe.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 598.
Leisawitz, D.; Thaddeus, P.; and Bash, F. “A CO Survey of Regions around 34 Open Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 342 (1989): 1214.
Lindstrom, M. M.; Marvin, U. B.; Holmberg, B. B.; and Mittlefehldt, D. W. “Geochemistry and Petrology of Recrystallized Gabbroic Breccias from the Apollo 15 Site.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XX, p. 576. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1989.
Lindstrom, M. M.; Marvin, U. B.; and Mittlefehldt, D. W. “Apollo 15 Mgand Fe-Norites: A Redefinition of the Mg-Suite Differentiation Trend.” In Proceedings of the 19th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, p. 245. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1989.
Lorenzini, E. C. “Novel Tether-Connected Two-Dimensional Structures for Low Earth Orbits.” Journal of the Astronautical Sciences 36(4) (1988): 389.
Lorenzini, E. C.; Cosmo, M.; Vetrella, S.; and Moccia, A. “Dynamics and Control of the Tether Elevator/Crawler System.” Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics 12(3) (1989): 404.
Lorenzini, E. C.; Grossi, M. D.; and Cosmo, M. “Low Altitude Tethered Mars Probe.”

<<<Page: 160>>>

In Proceedings of the 39th Congress of the International Astronautical Federation, paper IAF 88-400. Washington, DC: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1988.
Low, F.; Cutri, R.; Kleinmann, S.; and Huchra, J. “The Properties of Infrared Color Selected Quasars.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 340 (1989): L1.
Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I. M.; Morris, S. L.; Schild, R. E.; Stocke, J. T.; and Wolter, A. “BL Lac Objects from the Einstein Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey: Their Surface Density.” In Proceedings of the Meeting on BL Lac Objects: 10 Years After, eds. L. Maraschi, T. Maccacaro, and M.-H. Urlich, p. 222. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Maccagni, D.; Garilli, B.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Vettolani, G.; and Wolter, A. “A Red Envelope around a Dominant Elliptical Galaxy in an X-Ray Selected Poor Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 334 (1989): L1.
Magri, C.; Haynes, M. P.; Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and Giovanelli, R. “The Pattern of Gas Deficiency in Cluster Spirals: The Correlation of H 1 and X-Ray Properties.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 136.
Maia, M. A. G.; da Costa, L. N.; and Latham, D. W. “A Catalog of Southern Groups of Galaxies.” Astronomical Journal Supplement 69 (1989): 809.
Maraschi, L.; Maccacaro, T.; and Urlich, M.-H. (editors). Proceedings of the Meeting on BL Lac Objects: 10 Years After. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Marsden, B. G. “What Amateurs Should Be Doing.” Sky and Telescope 76 (1988): 462.
. “Amateur Astronomers and the JAU Central Bureau for Astronomical Tele-
grams and Minor Planet Center.” In Stargazers, Proceedings of IAU Colloquium
No. 98, eds. S. Dunlop and M. Gerbaldi, p. 64. New York: Springer-Verlag Pub-
lishing Company, 1988.
“Observations — Concluding Remarks.” In Stargazers, Proceedings of IAU
Colloquium No. 98, eds. S. Dunlop and M. Gerbaldi, p. 225. New York:
Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1988.
. (editor). Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 13635-14072, 1988.
. (editor). Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 14073-15120, 1989.
Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. (editors). International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4658-4696, 1988.
. (editors). International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4697-4868, 1989.
Martens, P. C. H., and Kuin, N. P. M. “A Circuit Model for Filament Observations and Two-Ribbon Flares.” Solar Physics 122 (1989): 136.
Martens, P. C. H., and Young, A. “Proton Acceleration in Solar Flares and in the Geomagnetic Tail: A Comparison.” In Nonlinear Effects in Vlasov Plasmas, ed. F. Doveil, p. 381. Les Ulis Cedex, France: Editions de Physique, 1989.
Marvin, U. B. “Impact, and Its Implications for Geology” (abstract). Conference on Global Catastrophes, Volcanism, and Mass Mortality, LPI Contributions, vol. 673, p. 115. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1988.
“Meteorite Distributions at the Allan Hills Main Icefield and the Pairing
Problem.” In Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, eds. U. B.
Marvin and G. J. MacPherson, vol. 28, p. 113. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

<<<Page: 161>>>

Institution Press, 1989.
“Meteorite Impact and Its Consequences for Geology.” (abstract). In Pro ceedings of 28th International Geological Congress, vol. 2, p. 381. Washington, D.C.: International Geological Congress, 1989.
Marvin, U. B.; Carey, J. W.; and Lindstrom, M. M. “Cordierite-Spinel Troctolite, a New Mg-Rich Lithology from the Lunar Highlands.” Science 243 (1989): 925.
Marvin, U. B.; Kring, D. A.; and Boulger, J. D., Jr. “Petrography of Impactite from New Quebec Crater.” Meteoritics 23 (1989): 287.
Marvin, U. B., and MacPherson, G. J. (editors). Field and Laboratory Investigations of Meteorites from Victoria Land and the Thiel Mountains Region, Antarctica. Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, vol. 28. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Press, 1989.
Massaglia, S.; Bodo, G.; Kalkofen, W.; and Rosner, R. “The Equilibrium Structure of a Thin Magnetic Flux Tube. III. The Effect of Molecular CO Absorption.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 925.
Masson, C. R. “The Structures of NGC 7027 and a Determination of its Distance by Measurement of Proper Motions.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 294.
“The Structures of and Distances to BD+30°3639 and NGC 6572.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 294.
Mathieu, R. D.; Walter, F. M.; and Myers, P. C. “The Discovery of Six Pre-MainSequence Spectroscopic Binaries.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 987.
Mattison, E. M. “Ultra-Stable Clocks for Use in Space.” Advances in Space Research 9(9) (1989): 13.
Mattison, E. M., and Coyle, L. M. “Phase Noise in Direct Digital Synthesizers.” In Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Symposium on Frequency Control, IEEE Catalogue No. 88CH2588-2, p. 352. New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1988.
Mattison, E. M., and Vessot, R. F. C. “Time and Temperature Stability of SilverCoated Ceramics for Hydrogen Maser Resonant Cavities.” In Proceedings of the 20th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval Applications and Planning Meeting, p. 313. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Naval Observatory, 1988.
Mauche, C., and Gorenstein, P. “X-Ray Halos around Supernova Remnants.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 843.
Mauche, C. W.; Raymond, J. C.; and Cordova, F. A. “Interstellar Absorption Lines in High Resolution IUE Spectra of Cataclysmic Variables.” Astrophysical Journal 335 (1989): 829.
McClintock, J. E. “Transient X-Ray Sources with Late-Type Companions.” In Timing Neutron Stars, eds. H. Ogelman and E. P. J. van den Heuvel, p. 209. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
McIntosh, G. C.; Predmore, C. R.; Moran, J. M.; Greenhill, L. J.; Rogers, A. E. E.; and Barvainis, R. “VLBI and Polarimetric Observations of the SiO Masers in R Cassiopeia.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 934.
Melnick, G. J. “Observations of Atomic Species in Dense Clouds.” In Molecular Astro | physics, ed. T. W. Hartquist, p. 273. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989,
Melnick, G. J.; Koch, D. G.; Fazio, G. G.; Rieke, G. H.; Low, F. J.; Hoffmann, W.;

<<<Page: 162>>>

Young, E. T.; Urban, E. W.; Simpson, J. P.; Witteborn, F. C.; Gautier, T. N., II; and Poteet; W. “Overview of Measurements from the Infrared Telescope on Spacelab-2.” Astrophysical Letters and Communications 27 (no. 3) (1988): 211.
Menten, K. M., and Batrla, W. “Observations of Various Methanol Maser Transitions towards the NGC6334 Region.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 839.
Menten, K. M., and Melnick, G. J. “Hot Water Around Late-Type Stars: Detection of Two MM-Wave Lines from the v» Vibrationally Excited State.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters) 341 (1989): L91.
Menten, K. M.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; Wilson, T. L.; Rohneteny K. J.; and Batrla, W. “VLBI Oneewanene of 12 Gigshents Methanol Masers.? Antrophysical Journal (Letters) 333 (1988): L83.
Menten, K. M.; Walmsley, C. M.; Wilson, T. L.; and Henkel, C. “Interstellar Methanol towards Galactic HII Regions.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and External Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 261. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Michel, A., and Huchra, J. “Redshifts of Galaxies in the Winter Plane.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 100 (1988): 1423.
Moran, J. M. “Imaging with Very Long Baseline Interferometry.” In Highlights of Astronomy, Proceedings of the IAU 20th General Assembly, ed. D. McNally, p 553. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
. “Introduction to VLBI” In Techniques and Applications of Very Long Base-
line Interferometry, eds. M. Felli and R. E. Spencer, p. 27. Dordrecht, Holland:
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
“The Effects of Propagation on VLBI Observations.” In Techniques and
Applications of Very Long Baseline Interferometry, eds. M. Felli and R. E.
Spencer, p. 47. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
“Water Vapor Masers and the Cosmic Distance Scale.” In Newsletter of the
Astronomical Society of New York, Vol. III, No. 6, ed. A. G. Davis Philip, p. 9.
Schnectady, New York: L. Davis Press, Inc., 1989.
. “Masers in the Envelopes of Young and Old Stars.” In Molecular Astrophysics, ed. T. Hartquist, p. 397. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Moran, J. M.; Hewitt, J. N.; and Lo, K. Y. (editors). Gravitational Lenses. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 238 pages, 1989.
Mrkos, A., and Marsden, B. G. “IAU Commission 6.” In Reports on Astronomy, vol. XXA, ed. J.-P. Swings, p. 13. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Murray, S.S., and Chappell, J. H. “Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility High Resolution Camera.” In X-Ray Instrumentation in Astronomy IJ, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1160, ed. L. Golub, p. 48. Bellingham, Washington: Society of PhotoOptical Instrumentation Engineers, 1988.
Myers, P.C. “Molecular Cloud Structure, Motions, and Evolution.” In Molecular Astrophysics, ed. T. Hartquist, p. 328. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
. “Physical Conditions in Dark Clouds.” In The Physics and Chemistry of
Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winne~
wisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 38. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company,
1989.

<<<Page: 163>>>

Nesci, R.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Perola, G. C.; Schild, R. E.; and Wolter, A. “A Cooling Flow in a High Redshift X-Ray Selected Cluster of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 104.
Nesci, R.; Perola, G. C.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R. E.; and Wolter, A. “A Distant X-Ray Selected Cluster with a Cooling Flow: 1E0839.9+2938.” In Proceedings of the International Conference on Large-Scale Structures and Motions in the Universe, eds. M. Mezzetti, G. Giuricin, F. Madirossian and M. Ramella, p. 413. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Neufeld, D. A., and Dalgarno, A. “Fast Molecular Shocks I. Reformation of Molecules behind a Dissociative Shock.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 869.
Nisenson, P. “The Knox-Thompson Method.” In European Space Observatory Conference on High Resolution Imaging by Interferometry, Proceedings of the National Optical Astronomy Observatories, ed. F. Meukle, p. 491. Garching bei Munchen: European Southern Observatory, 1988.
. “Speckle Imaging with PAPA Detector and the Knox-Thompson Algorithm.”
In Diffraction-Limited Imaging with Very Large Telescopes, Proceedings of a
NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. D. M. Alloim and J.-M. Mariotti, p. 157.
Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
. “Knox-Thompson Imaging at Low Light Levels.” In Quantum Limited Imaging and Information Processing, Technical Digest Series, vol. 13, p. 48. Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1989.
Noci, G., and Kohl, J. L. “Il Coronografo Spettrometro Ultravioletto per la Missione Spaziale SOHO.” Atti della Fondazione Giorgio Ronchi 1 (1989): 353.
Noyes, R. W. “The Sun.” In The New Solar System, revised, ed. K. Beatty, p. 25. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Company, 1989.
. “The Sun.” In The World Book Encyclopedia, vol. 18 p. 974. Chicago, Illinois: World Book Inc., 1989.
Nyman, L.-A.; Bronfman, L.; and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Southern Coalsack.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 216 (1989): 185.
Okumura, Y.; Tsunemi, H.; Yamashita, K.; Matsuoka, M.; Koyama, K.; Hayakawa, S.; Masai, K.; and Hughes, J. P. “TENMA Observations of the X-Ray Spectra of the Coma, Ophiuchus, and Perseus Clusters of Galaxies.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of Japan 40 (1988): 639.
Olano, C. A.; Harju, J.; Menten, K. M.; and Walmsley, C. M. “The Immediate Surroundings of B335-IR and L1551-IRS5.” Astronomische Gesellschaft Abstract Series 1 (1988): 32.
Ostriker, E. C.; Huchra, J. P.; Geller, M. J.; and Kurtz, M. J. “The Kinematics and Dynamics of the Rich Cluster of Galaxies Abell 539.” Astronomical Journal 96 (1988): 1775.
Owocki, S. P.; Castor, J. I.; and Rybicki, G. B. “Time-Dependent Models of Radiatively Driven Stellar Winds. I. Nonlinear Evolution of Instabilities for a Pure Absorption Model.” Astrophysical Journal 335 (1988): 914.
Padin, S.; Sargent, A. I.; Mundy, L. G.; Scoville, N. Z.; Woody, D. P.; Leighton, R. B.; Masson, C. R.; Scott, S. L.; Seling, T. V.; Staplefeldt, K. R.; and Terebey, S. “Interferometric C!8O Observations of DR21(OH) and L1551-IRS5 at \ = 1.4
Millimeters.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 337 (1989): L45.

<<<Page: 164>>>

Papaliolios, C.; Karovska, M.; Koechlin, L.; Nisenson, P.; Standley, C.; and Heathcote, S. “Asymmetry of the Envelope of SN1987A.” Nature 338 (1989): 565.
Pasquini, L.; Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Tozzi, G. P.; and Krautter, J. “X-Ray and Optical Observations of LDS 587.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 218 (1989): 187.
Peres, G.; Reale, F.; Collura, A.; and Fabbiano, G. “Time Variability of the X-Ray Sources in M33.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 140.
Peterson, R. “The Mass-to-Light Ratios of Extragalactic Globular Clusters.” In Dynamics of Dense Stellar Systems, ed. D. Merritt, p. 161. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Peterson, R. C., and Latham, D. W. “The Radial Velocity and Velocity Dispersion of the Remote Globular Cluster Palomar 15: Constraints on the Mass of the Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 178.
Petre, R.; Szymkowiak, A. E.; Seward, F.; and Willingale, R. “A Comprehensive Study of the X-Ray Structure and Spectrum of IC 443.” Astrophysical Journal 335 (1988): 215.
Phillips, J. D., and Reasenberg, R. D. “Point-to-Point Laser Metrology for POINTS.” In Topical Meeting on Space Optics for Astrophysics and Earth and Planetary Re mote Sensing, 1988 Technical Digest Series, vol. 10, p. 22. Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1988.
Pineau des Foréts, G.; Flower, D. R.; and Dalgarno, A. “Theoretical Studies of Shocks.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 235 (1988): 621.
Press, W. H., and Rybicki, G. B. “Fast Algorithm for Spectral Analysis of Unevenly Sampled Data.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 277.
Prolss, G.W.; Roemer, M.; and Slowey, J. W. “Dissipation of Solar Wind Energy in the Earth’s Upper Atmosphere: The Geomagnetic Activity Effect.” Advances in Space Research 8(5) (1988): 215.
Ramella, M.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “Groups of Galaxies in the Center for Astrophysics Redshift Survey.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 57.
Ramos, R.; Hing, $.M.; Leidich, C. A.; Fazio, G.; Houck, J. R.; and Rieke, G. “Space Infrared Telescope Facility (SIRTF) Science Instruments.” Proceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers 973-02 (1988).
Reasenberg, R. D. “On the Threshold: Astrometric Optical Interferometry in Space with POINTS.” In Topical Meeting on Space Optics for Astrophysics and Earth and Planetary Remote Sensing, 1988 Technical Digest Series, vol. 10, p. 13. Washington, D.C.: Optical Society of America, 1988.
Reasenberg, R. D.; Babcock, R.W.; Chandler, J. F.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Huchra, J. P.; Pearlman, M. R.; Shapiro, I. I; Taylor, R. §.; Bender, P.; Buffington, A.; Carney, B.; Hughes, J. A.; Johnston, K. J.; Jones, B. F.; and Matson, L. E. “Microarcsecond Optical Astrometry: An Instrument and Its Astrophysical Applications.” Astronomical Journal 96 (1988): 1731.
Reasenberg, R. D.; Babcock, R. W.; Chandler, J. F.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Testing General Relativity with POINTS, a Space-Based Astrometric Optical Interferometer.” In Proceedings of International Symposium on Experimental Gravitational Physics, ed. P. F. Michelson, p. 3. Singapore: World Scientific Publishing Company, 1988.

<<<Page: 165>>>

Reasenberg, R. D., and Vessot, R. F. C. (editors). Proceedings of Symposium 15 of the COSPAR 27th Plenary Meeting, “Relativistic Gravitation,” Advances in Space Research, vol. 9(9). Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1989.
Regos, E., and Geller, M. J. “Infall Patterns Around Rich Clusters of Galaxies.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 755.
Reid, M. J. “The Distance to the Galactic Center: R,.” In The Center of the Galaxy, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 136, ed. M. Morris, p. 37. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Reid, M. J.; Biretta, J. A.; Junor, W.; Muxlow, T. W. B.; and Spencer, R. E. “Subluminal Motion and Limb Brightening in the Nuclear Jet of M87.” Astrophysical Journal 336 (1989): 112.
Reitsema, H. J.; Delamere, W. A.; and Whipple, F. L. “Active Polar Regions on the Nucleus of Comet Halley.” Science 241 (1989): 198.
Rodriguez, L. F.; Cantd, J.; and Moran, J. M. “The Bipolar HII Region NGC 63344.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 801.
Roncin, J. Y.; Launay, F.; and Yoshino, K. “Vacuum Ultraviolet Emission from Highly Excited States of Molecular Nitrogen.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 134 (1989): 390.
Rosenkrantz, M. E., and Kirby, K. “Theoretical Study of Low-Lying 1y>~ and !A States of CO.” Journal of Chemical Physics 90 (1989): 6528.
Rosner, R., and Tucker, W. H. “On Magnetic Fields, Heating and Thermal Conduction in Halos, and the Suppression of Cooling Flows.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 761.
Rubio, M.; Garay, G.; Dame, T. M.; and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Large Magellanic Cloud.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and External Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 423. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1988.
Rybicki, G. B. “Dawson’s Integral and the Sampling Theorem.” Computers in Physics 3 (No. 2) (1989): 85.
Ryden, B.S. “Collapse of Density Peaks in a Gaussian Random Field.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1988): 78.
. “The Area of Isodensity Contours as a Measure of Large Scale Structure.”
Astrophysical Journal] (Letters) 333 (1988): L41.
“The Area of Isodenity Contours in Gaussian and non-Gaussian Fields.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 100 (1988): 1360.
Ryden, B. S.; Melott, A. L.; Craig, D. A.; Gott, J. R., II]; Weinberg, D. H.; Scherrer, R. J.; Bhavsar, S. P.; and Miller, J. M. “The Area of Isodensity Contours in Cosmological Models and Galaxy Surveys.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 647.
Saar, S. H. “The Magnetic Fields on Cool Stars and Their Correlation with Chromospheric and Coronal Emission.” In The NATO Advanced Study Institute on Hot Thin Plasmas in Astrophysics, ed. R. Pallavicini, p. 139. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Sahai, R.; Claussen, M. J.; and Masson, C. R. “The Centimeter Radio Continuum from IRC+10216 and Other Late-Type Stars with Mass Loss Envelopes.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 220 (1989): 92.

<<<Page: 166>>>

Sargent, A. I.; Beckwith, S.; Keene, J. B.; and Masson, C. R. “Small-Scale Structure of the Circumstellar Gas around L1551 IRS 5.” Astrophysical Journal 333 (1989): 936.
Schild, R., and Weir, N. “The Optical Nebulosity Around the T Tauri Star RNO 91 in the L43 Dense Molecular Core.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 1110.
Schrijver, C. J.; Coté, J.; Zwaan, C.; and Saar, S. H. “Relations between the Photospheric Magnetic Field and the Emission from the Outer Atmospheres of Cool Stars I. The Solar Ca II K Line-Core Emission.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 964.
Schwartz, D. A.; Qian, Y.; and Tucker, W. H. “The Shape of Soft X-Ray Spectra of Quasars.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 175. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Seitzer, P.; Peterson, R.; and Cudworth, K. “The Dynamics of M15.” In Dynamics of Dense Stellar Systems, ed. D. Merritt, p. 153. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Seward, F. D. “The Crab-Like Supernova Remnants.” Space Science Reviews 49 (1989): 385.
. “X-Rays from G54.1+0.3.” Astronomical Journal 97 (1989): 481.
Shapiro, I. I.; Reasenberg, R. D.; Chandler, J. F.; and Babcock, R. W. “Measurement of the de Sitter Precession of the Moon: A Relativistic Three-Body Effect.” Physical Review Letters 61 (1988): 2643.
Slane, P., and Fry, W. F. “Anomalous Periodicity in the Very High Energy Gamma-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 1129.
Slane, P.; McLaughlin, E. R.; Schwartz, D. A.; Van Speybroeck, L. P.; Bilbro, J. W.; and Nerren, B. H. “Measurement of the Effects of Particulate Contamination on X-Ray Reflectivity.” In Reflective Optics II, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1113, ed. D. Korsch, p. 12. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.
Slowey, J. W. “The Impact of Tether on Atmospheric Science.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 127. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.
Spiller, E.; Grebe, K.; and Golub, L. “Filters for Soft X-Ray Solar Telescopes.” In X-Ray/EUV Optics for Astronomy and Microscopy, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1160, ed. R. B. Hoover, p. 66. Bellingham, Washington: Society of PhotoOptical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.
Stacy, J. G.; Bitran, M. E.; Dame, T. M.; and Thaddeus, P. “Wide-Line Molecular Clouds and the Gamma-Ray Deficit Toward the Galactic Center.” The Center of the Galaxy, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 136, ed. M. Morris, p. 157. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Stacy, J. G.; Myers, P. C.; and de Vries, H. W. “A Search for Dense Cores in High-Latitude Molecular Clouds.” In Molecular Clouds in the Milky Way and External Galaxies, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 315, eds. R. Dickman, R. L. Snell, and J. S. Young, p. 38. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1988.
. “Dense Cores Associated with Diffuse, High Latitude Molecular Clouds.” In

<<<Page: 167>>>

The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 117. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Sternberg, A., and Dalgarno, A. “The Infrared Response of Molecular Hydrogen Gas to Ultraviolet Radiation: High Density Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 338 (1989): 197.
Sternberg, A.; Dalgarno, A.; and Rouef, E. “The Bowen Mechanism and Charge Transfer.” Comments on Astrophysics 13 (1988): 29.
Stocke, J. T.; Hartigan, P. M.; Strom, S. E.; Strom, K. M.; Anderson, E. R.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Kenyon, S. J. “A Detailed Study of the Lynds 1551 Star Formation Region.” Astrophysical Journal (Supplement) 68 (1988): 229.
Stockés’3J.9 Ts); Morrisi: S.''L.: Gioia; “1... M.;;""Maccacaro, 1 -s.-Schild, oR: .B.: and Wolter, A. “The Optical and Radio Properties of X-Ray Selected BL Lacertids.” In Proceedings of the Meeting on BL Lac Objects: 10 Years After, eds. L. Maraschi, T. Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 242. Berlin: SpringerVerlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Strong, A. W.; Bloemen, J. B. G. M.; Dame, T. M.; Grenier, I. A.; Hermsen, W.; Lebrun, F.; Nyman, L.-A.; Pollock, A. M. T.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Radial Distribution of Galactic Gamma Rays IV. The Whole Galaxy.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 207 (1988): 1.
Tananbaum, H. “The Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility.” In Hot Thin Plasmas in Astrophysics, ed. R. Pallavacini, p. 379. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1988.
Tang, G.; Ronnang, B.; and Baath, L. “Radio Source Structure from Geodetic VLBI Observations: Evolution of the Quasar 3C345 at 8 GHz.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 216 (1989): 31
Terebey, S.; Vogel, S. N.; and Myers, P. C. “High Resolution CO Observations of Young Low-Mass Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 472.
Thaddeus, P. “Galactic Molecular Surveys: The Role of Small Telescopes.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 14. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Thorstensen, J. R.; Brownsberger, K. R.; Mook, D. E.; Remillard, R. A.; McClintock, J. E.; Koo, D. C.; and Charles, P. A. “Optical Observations of the X-Ray Binary V1727 Cygni (=4U2129+47) during a Low State: Some Unexpected Results.” Astrophysical Journal 334 (1988): 430. ,
Thorstensen, J.; Wegner, G.; Hamwey, R.; Boley, F.; Geller, M.; Huchra, J.; and Kurtz, M. “Redshifts for a Sample of Fainter Galaxies in the First CfA Survey Slice.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 1143.
Torrelles, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; Rodriguez, L. F., and Canté, J. “Ammonia Observations of the AFGL 2591 Region: A Possible Cavity in the Molecular Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 343 (1989): 222.
Traub, W. A. “Polarization Effects in Stellar Interferometers.” In High Resolution Imaging by Interferometry, ESO Conference Proceedings No. 29, ed. F. Merkle, p. 1029. Garching bei Munchen, FRG: European Southern Observatory, 1988.
Traub, W. A., and Lacasse, M. G. “Laboratory Measurements of Visibility Using

<<<Page: 168>>>

Dispersed Fringes in Wavenumber Space.” In High Resolution Imaging by Interferometry, ESO Conference Proceedings No. 29, ed. F. Merkle, p. 947. Garching bei Munchen, FRG: European Southern Observatory, 1988.
Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Bandiera, R. “Far-Infrared Emission and Star Formation in Spiral Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989): 759.
Turnshek, D. A.; Wolfe, A. M.; Lanzetta, K. M.; Briggs, F. H.; Cohen, R. D.; Foltz, C. G.; Smith, H. E.; and Wilkes, B. J. “Damped Lyman-Alpha Absorption by Disk Galaxies with Large Redshifts. III. Intermediate-Resolution Spectroscopy.” Astrophysical Journal 334 (1989): 567.
Ungerechts, H., and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Giant Molecular Cloud Complex Toward Cas A.” In The Physics and Chemistry of Interstellar Molecular Clouds, Lecture Notes in Physics No. 331, eds. G. Winnewisser and J. T. Armstrong, p. 213. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Unwin, S.; Cohen, M.; Biretta, J.; Hodges, M.; and Zensus, J. “Superluminal Motion in the Quasar 3C 279.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 117.
Vacanti, G.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search for Pulsed TeV Emission from PSR0531+21.” In Cosmic Gamma Rays, Neutrinos, and Related Astrophysics, Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Study Institute, vol. 270, eds. M. M. Shapiro and J. P. Wefel, p. 245. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Vacanti, G.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Lang, M. J.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D. J.; Reynolds, P. T.; and Weekes, T. C. “TeV Gamma-Ray Astronomy in the GRO Era.” In Proceedings of the Gamma-Ray Observatory Workshop, ed. W. N. Johnson, p. 4-40. Greenbelt, Maryland: Goddard Space Flight Center, 1989.
van Ballegooijen, A. A. “Magnetic Fields in the Accretion Disks of Cataclysmic Variables.” In Magnetic Fields and Accretion Disks in Astrophysics, ed. G. Belvedere, p. 99. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1989.
van Ballegooijen, A. A., and Martens, P. C. H. “Formation and Eruption of Solar Prominences.” Astrophysical Journal 343 (1989): 971.
Van Speybroeck, L.; Reid, P.; Schwartz, D.; and Bilbro, J. “Predicted and Preliminary Evaluation of the X-Ray Performance of the AXAF Technology Mirror Assembly.” In X-Ray/EUV Optics for Astronomy and Microscopy, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1160, ed. R. B. Hoover, p. 94. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.
Vessot, R. F. C. “Hydrogen Maser Clocks and Deep Space Systems Involving Clocks.” In Proceedings of International Symposium on Experimental Gravitational Physics, ed. P. F. Michelson, p. 14. Singapore: World Scientific Publishing Company, 1988.
. “Clocks and Spaceborne Tests of Relativistic Gravitation.” Advances in Space Research 9(9) (1989): 21.
Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Walsworth, R. L.; and Silvera, I. F. “The Cold . Hydrogen Maser.” In Frequency Standards and Metrology, ed. A. DeMarchi; p. 88. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Vetrella, S.; Moccia, A.; Lorenzini, E. C.; and Cosmo, M. “Attitude Dynamics

<<<Page: 169>>>

of the Tether Elevator/Crawler System for Micro-Gravity Applications.” In Tethers in Space Toward Flight, p. 323. Washington, D.C.: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc., 1989.
Walsh, D. E. P.; Knapp, G. R.; Wrobel, J. M.; and Kim, D.-W. “Interstellar Matter in Early Type Galaxies. JI]. Radio Emission and Star Formation.” Astrophysical Journal 337 (1989): 209.
Weekes, T. C. “Gamma-Ray Astronomy at the Highest Energies.” Nuclear Instruments and Methods (Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Radiation Physics, Sao Paulo, Brazil), A280 (1989): 349.
. “TeV Gamma Ray Astronomy.” Nuclear Physics B 10B (1989): 41.
Whipple, F. L. “Comets in the Space Age.” Astrophysical Journal 341 (1989): 1.
Wilkes, B. J.; Elvis, M.; and McDowell, J. “Is There a Relation between Optical Emission Line Strengths and Continuum Shapes.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 187. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Willette, G. T. “The Formation of Tangential Discontinuities in Line-Tied Force-Free Fields: Topological Heating of the Solar Corona.” Senior Thesis, Astronomy Department, Harvard University (1988).
Wilson, T. L.; Johnston, K. J.; Henkel, C.; and Menten, K. M. “The Distribution of Hot Thermal Methanol in Orion-KL.” Astrophysical Journal 214 (1989): 321.
Winkler, P. F.; Kirshner, R. P.; Hughes, J. P.; and Heathcote, S. “A Second Supernova Inside Puppis A.” Nature 337 (1989): 48.
Withbroe, G. L. “The Solar Wind Mass Flux.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 337 (1989): L49.
Wolter, A. “Properties of a Large Sample of X-Ray Selected Active Galactic Nuclei from the Einstein Observatory Medium Sensitivity Survey.” In Active Galactic Nuclei and Supernova, Proceedings of the 20th Yamada Conference on Big Bang, eds. S. Hayakawa and K. Sato, p. 175. Tokyo, Japan: Universal Academy Press, Inc., 1989.
Wood, D. O. S., and Churchwell, E. “The Morphologies and Physical Properties of Ultracompact H II Regions.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 69 (1989): 831.
“Massive Stars Embedded in Molecular Clouds: Their Population and Distribution in the Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 340 (1989): 265.
Wood, J. A., and Hashimoto, A. “Effects of Redox State on Stable Mineral Assemblages in the Solar Nebula” (abstract). In Proceedings of the 28th International Geological Congress, vol. 3, p. 380. Washington, D.C.: International Geological Congress, 1989.
Woodward, D. R.; Pearson, J. C.; Gottlieb, C. A.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Radio Spectrum of the C4D Radical.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 333 (1988): L29.
Worrall, D. M. “Spectral Components of BL Lac Objects and Other Compact Extragalactic Radio Sources.” In Proceedings of the Meeting on BL Lac Objects: 10 Years After, eds. L. Maraschi, T. Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 305. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.
Worrall, D. M., and Wilkes, B. J. “A Comparison of the X-Ray Spectra of Quasars and BL Lac objects.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 134, eds. D. E. Osterbrock and J. S. Miller, p. 197. Dordrecht, Holland:

<<<Page: 170>>>

Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1989.
Wu, C.-C.; Panek, R. J.; Holm, A. V.; Raymond, J. C.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Swank, J. “Ultraviolet Spectrophotometry and Optical and Infrared Photometry of the Old Nova GK Persei.” Astrophysical Journal 339 (1989): 443.
Yoshino, K.; Cheung, A. S.-C.; Esmond, J. R.; Parkinson, W. H.; Freeman, D. E.; Guberman, S. L.; Jenouvrier, A.; Coquart, B.; and Merienne, M. F. “Improved Absorption Cross Sections of Oxygen in the Wavelength Region 205-240 nm of the Herzberg Continuum.” Planetary and Space Science 36 (1988): 1469.
Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Esmond, J. R.; Friedman, R. S.; and Parkinson, W. H. “High Resolution Absorption Cross Sections and Band Oscillator Strengths of the Schumann-Runge Absorption Bands of Isotopic Oxygen, 180,, at 79K.” Planetary and Space Science 36 (1988): 1201.
. “High Resolution Absorption Cross Sections and Band Oscillator Strengths of the Schumann-Runge Absorption Bands of Isotopic Oxygen, 169189 at 79K.” Planetary and Space Science 37 (1989): 419.
Zombeck, M. V. “Imaging at Soft X-Ray Wavelengths with Microchannel Plates.” In X-Ray Instrumentation in Medicine and Biology, Plasma Physics, Astrophysics, and Synchrotron Radiation, Proceedings of the SPIE, vol. 1140, ed. R. Denattar, p. 58. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.
Zygelman, B.; Dalgarno, A.; Kimura, M.; and Lane, N. F. “Radiative and NonRadiative Charge Transfer in He+ + H Collisions at Low Energy.” Physical Review A 40 (1989): 2340.

<<<Page: 171>>>

Correll, D. Le. (1989). The nature of solar radiation and its spatial and temporal variation on the earth's surface. pp. 19-21. In: A. Moshell (ed.), Sunlight, Ultraviolet Radiation, and the Skin. NIH Concensus Development Conference. U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C.
Curtis, P. S.; B. G. Drake; and D. F. Whigham. (1989). Nitrogen and carbon dynamics in C3 and C4 estuarine marsh plants grown under elevated C0., in situ. Qecologia 78: 297-301.
Curtis, P. S.; B. G. Drake; P. W. Leadley; W. J. Arp and D. F. Whigham. (1989). Growth and senescence in plant communities exposed to elevated CO, concentrations on an estuarine marsh. Oecologia 76:
2 20-26. Drake, B. G. (1989). Photosynthesis of saltmarsh species. Aquatic Botany 34: 167-180.
Drake, B. G.; P. W. Leadley; W. J. Arp; D. Nassiry and P. S. Curtis. (1989). An open top chamber for field studies of elevated atmospheric ay concentration on saltmarsh vegetation. Functional Ecology 3: 363-371.
Hines, A. H. (1988). Fecundity and reproductive output in two species of deep-sea crabs, Geryon fenneri and G. quinquedens (Decapoda: Brachyura). Journal of Crustacean Biology 8: 557-562.
Hines, A. H. (1989). Geographic variation in size at maturity in Brachyuran crabs. Bulletin of Marine Science 45: 301-327.
Hines, A. H.; M. H. Posey and P. J. Haddon. (1989). Effects of adult Suspensionand deposit-feeding bivalves on recruitment of estuarine infauna. The Veliger 32: 109-119.
Leck, Me2A.cg Ro LarSimpson;. D.°F «Whigham: and C.)\Fo ‘Leck. (1988)... Plants of the Hamilton Marshes: A Delaware River freshwater tidal wetland. Bartonia 54: 1-17.
Monk, C. D.; D. W. Imm; R. L. Potter and G. G. Parker. (1989). A classification of the deciduous forest of eastern North America. Vegetatio 80: 167-181.
Parker, G. G. (1989). Are currently available statistical methods adequate for long-term studies? pp. 199-200. In: G. E. Likens (ed.), Long-term studies in ecology, approaches and alternatives. Springer Verlag, New York.
Pearse, J. S. and A. H. Hines. (1987). Long-term population dynamics of sea urchins in a central California kelp forest: rare recruitment and rapid decline. Marine Ecology Progress Series 39: 275-283.
Rublee, P. A. and C. L. Gallegos. (1989). Use of fluorescently labelled algae (FLA) to estimate microzooplankton grazing. Marine Ecology Progress Series 51: 221-227.
Whigham, D. F.; B. Palmer and C. Chitterling. (1988). The impacts of freshwater wetlands and water quality: a landscape perspective. Environmental Management 12: 663-671.
Whigham, D. F. and J. O'Neill. (1988). The importance of predation and small scale disturbance to two woodland herb species. pp. 243-252. Ins; Ms, Js As-Werger,. Peds Me wan der Aart, H.. ds, During and:J. T./A.
Verhoeven (eds.), Plant form and vegetation structure: adaptation,
plasticity and relation to herbivory. SPB Academic Publishers, The Hague, The Netherlands.

<<<Page: 172>>>

Weller, D. Ej. (1987). Self-thinning exponent correlated with allometric measures of plant geometry. Ecology 68: 813-821.
Weller, D. Ej (1987). A reevaluation of the -3/2 power rule of selfthinning. Ecological Monographs 57: 23-43.
Weller, D. E~ (1989). The interspecific size-density relationship among crowded plant stands and its implications for the -3/2 power rule of self-thinning. American Naturalist 133: 20-41.
Wolcott, T. G. and A. H. Hines. (1989). Ultrasonic biotelemetry of muscle activity from free-ranging marine animals: a new method for studying
foraging by Blue Crabs (Callinectes sapidus). Biological Bulletin 176: 50-56.
Bain, Alan L. "Guide to the Records of the National Zoological Park, 1887-1965, and undated." Guides to Collections in the Smithsonian. _Archives; no. .:10. Archives and Special Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Archives, 1989.
Shoemaker, Rebecca V. "Guide to the Papers of Robert E. Silberglied, 1946-1984, and undated." Guides to Collections in the Smithsonian Archives, no. 9. Archives and Special
Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Archives, 1989.
Vogt-O'Connor,: Diane L. "The American Album." In Images of America. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.

<<<Page: 173>>>

Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Silvio A. Bedini, Thomas Jefferson, Statesman of Science. New York: Macmillan, 1989. Nancy E. Gwinn. "Libraries and Scholarly Communication in the
United States, the Historical Dimension: A Summary", Libraries & Culture. A Journal of Library History 23, No. 4 (Fall 1988): 499-506. Reprinted from the Library of Congress Information Bulletin 47: 16.
"The Smithsonian Institution Libraries: Afoot in Three Camps," College & Research Libraries 50, No. 2 (March 1989): 206-214.
Kay A. Kenyon. "National Zoological Park Library", Sci-Tech Libraries Serving Zoological Gardens, Ellis Mount, ed. Science and Technology Libraries 8 (4): 1-8. New York: The Haworth Press, 1988.
. Directory of Zoo and Aquarium Libraries. Intro., Table of Contents, Index. 41 pp. Washington, D.C.: SmithsonianInstitution Libraries, (June) 1989.
Karen Preslock, "Pest Control in Museums (1986): A Partially Annotated Bibliography," A Guide to Museum Pest Control. Lynda:A. Zycherman and John Richard Schrock, eds. pp. 17798. Washington, D.C.: Foundation of the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works and the Association of Systematics Collections, 1988.
Joyce M. Rey-Watson. "Online Bibliographic Resources in Astronomy and Astrophysics". Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Preprint Series No. 2758 (3 pp.), October, 1988. To appear in Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 110, "Library and Information Services in Astronomy", G. Wilkins and S. Stevens-Rayburn, eds.
"It's All in One Place with SIMBAD", Information Systems Newsletter, Issue 15 (Dec. 1988): 22-24. OSSA: NASA Office of Space Science and Applications.
and Roger Hauck. "SIMBAD". Data Systems Users
Working Group (DSUWG) Proceedings, October 24-26, 1988. Anaheim, California. Edited by Valerie L. Thomas and James L. Green. pp. 103-109. Greenbelt, Maryland: NASA NSSDC, 1989.
with others. SIMBAD's User's Guide (English version), 1989.
with Carol Rhodes and Michael Kurtz. An Astronomical Software Documentation Collection at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. Center for Astrophysics Preprint Series No. 2728 . Harvard-Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics, 1988.
Martin A. Smith and Susan S. Mottu, eds., Encyclopedia of Physical Sciences and Engineering Information Sources. Detroit: Gale Research, Inc., 1989.
Janet L. Stanley. Review: Honey from the lion: an African journey, by Wendy Belcher. Library Journal (New York) April 1, 1988.
Review: Mande blacksmiths: knowledge, power, and art in West Africa (1988) by Patrick R. McNaughton. In Art

<<<Page: 174>>>

documentation (Tucson) 7 (4): 172 (Winter 1988). Review. "South African music encyclopedia (19691986). African Book Publishing Record 14 (2): 108 (1988). Ellen B. Wells. "Horse History Books," in National Sporting Library Newsletter, No. 25: .
"Wood, John George (1827-1889)." In Victorian Britain: an Encyclopedia. p. 871. New York: Garland Publishing, 1988.
"Stratigraphy's Golden Age: Murchison and His Silurian System" (illustrated exhibition catalogue), Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1989.

<<<Page: 175>>>

Abele, Lawrence G. and Kim, Won. "The Decapod Crustaceans of the Panama Canal.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 482: 1-50 (1989).
Aide, T. Mitchell. "Herbivory as a Selective Agent on the Timing of Leaf Production in a Tropical Understory Community." Nature 336 (6199): 574-575 (1988).
Ainly, D.G., Carter, H.R., Anderson, D.W., Briggs, K.T., Coulter, M.C., Cruz, J.B., Valle, C.A., Fefer, S.I., Hatch, $.A., Schreiber, E.A., Schreiber, R.W., and Smith, N.G. "Effects of the 1982-83 El] Nifio Southern Oscillation on Pacific Ocean Bird Populations. In: Proceedings of the International Omithological Congress, Otawa, Canada 1986: 1747-1758 (1989).
Aiello, Annette. "A Field Guide to Coastal Wetland Plants of the Northeastern United States," by Ralph W. Tiner Jr." (Book review). Library Journal 112 (2): 71 (1987).
"Bites and Stings: The World of Venomous Animals, by John Nichol (Book review). Library Journal (July 1989).
"Enduring Seeds: Native American Agriculture and Wild Plant Conservation, by Gary Paul Nabhan" (Book review). Library Journal (March 1989). . "New Generation Guide to the Wild Flowers of Bntain and Northern
Europe, by Alistair Fitter" (Book review). Library Journal 112 (13): 116 (1987).
"The RHS Encyclopedia of House Plants Including Greenhouse Plants, by Kenneth A. Becket with Royal Horticultural Society" (Book review). Library Journal 112 (16): 86 (1987).
"The Smithsonian Guide to Seaside Plants of the Gulf and Atlantic Coasts from Louisiana to Massachusetts, Exclusive of Lower Peninsular Florida, by Wilbur H. Duncan and Marion B. Duncan" (Book review). Library Journal 112 (11): 78 (1987).
Plantwatching: How Plants Remember, Tell Time, Form Partnerships and More, by Malcolm Wilkins" (Book review). Library Journal 113 (18): 101 (1988).
"Wily Violets and Underground Orchids, by Peter Bernhardt" (Book review). Library Journal 114 (10): 138, 140 (June 1989). . "The World of Northern Evergreens, by E. C. Pielou" (Book review). Library Journal 113 (6): 92 (1988).
Aiello, Annette and Brown Jr., Keith S. "Mimicry by Illusion in a Sexually Dimorphic, Day-Flying Moth, Dysschema jansonis (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae: Pericopinae)." Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera 26 (1-4): 173-176 (1988).
Alverson, William S. "Quararibea (Bombacaceae): Five New Species from Moist and Wet Forests of Costa Rica and Panama." Bnittonia 41 (1): 61-74 (1989).
Andrews, Robin M. "Conservation Biology: The Science of Scarcity and Diversity, edited by Michael E. Soule" (Book review). The Journal of Heredity 78 (1): 62 (1987).
. "Demographic Correlates of Variable Egg Survival for a Tropical Lizard." Oecologia 76 (3): 376-382 (1988).
Angehr, George R. Descorriendo la Cortina Verde: Evolucién de la Biologia Tropical en Panam4. Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama. Published in conjunction with the exhibition Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama, the occasion of the opening of the Tupper Research and Conference Center of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Panama City, Panama. (Anaconda Press, 1989).

<<<Page: 176>>>

Aparicio Méndez, Rolando. Determinacién de Trazas de Cobre en Muestras de Corales y Auga de Mar Cercanas a Bahia Las Minas. Tesis, Escuela de Quimica, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama: Universidad de Panama, 1988).
Arias, T.D., Inaba, T., Cooke, Richard G. and Jorge, L.F. "A Preliminary Note on the Transient Polymorphic Oxidation of Sparteine in the Ngawbé Guaymi Amerindians: A Case of Genetic Divergence with Tentative Phylogenetic Time Frame for the Pathway." Clin Pharmacol Ther 44 (3): 343-352 (1988).
Augspurger, Carol K. "Impact of Pathogens on Natural Plant Populations” in Plant Population Ecology, The 28th Symposium of the British Ecological Society, Sussex 1987: 413-433. Edited by A.J. Davy, M.J. Hutchings and A.R. Watkinson (Oxford: Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1988).
"Plant Populations and Pathogens", Book review of Diseases and Plant Population Biology, by Jeremy J. Burdon. Ecology 69 (2): 552 (1988).
Augspurger, Carol K. and Franson, Susan E. "Input of Wind-Dispersed Seeds into Light-Gaps and Forest Sites in a Neotropical Forest." Journal of Tropical Ecology 4 (3): 239-252 (1988).
Avise, John C., Arnold, Jonathan, Ball, R. Martn, Bermingham, Eldredge, Lamb, Trip, Neigel, Joseph E., Reeb, Carol A. and Saunders, Nancy C. "Intraspecific Phylogeography: The Mitochondrial DNA Bridge Between Population Genetics and Systematics." Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 18: 489-522 (1987).
Ball Jr., R. Martin, Freeman, Scott, James, Fraces C., Bermingham, Eldredge and Avise, John C. "Phylogeographic Population Structure of Red-Winged Blackbirds Assessed by Mitochondrial DNA." Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 85: 1558-1562 (1988).
Baumgartner, Donald L. and Roubik, David W. "Ecology of Necrophilus and FilthGathering Stingless Bees (Apidae: Meliponinae) of Peru." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 62 (1): 11-22 (1989).
Becker, P., Erhart, D.W. and Smith, A.P. "Analysis of Forest Light Environments Part I. Computerized Estimation of Solar Radiation from Hemispherical Canopy Photographs." Agricultural and Forest Meteorology 44: 217-232 (1989).
Belwood, Jacqueline J. "Foraging Behavior, Prey Selection, and Echolocation in Phylostomine Bats (Phyllostomidae)." In Animal Sonar: 601-605. Edited by Paul E. Nachtigall and Patrick W.B. Moore (New York: Plenum, 1988).
The Influence of Bat Predation on Calling Behavior in Neotropical Forest Katydids (Insecta: Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae). Ph.D. dissertation (Gainesville: University of Florida, 1988).
"Sounds of Silence". Bats 6 (2): 5-9 (1988).
Blake, J.G. "Birds of Primary Forest Undergrowth in Western San Blas, Panama." Journal of Field Ornithology 60 (2): 178-189 (1989).
Brawn, Jeffrey D. "Selectivity and Ecological Consequences of Captivity Nesters Using Natural vs. Artificial Nest Sites." The Auk 105 (4): 789-791 (1988).
Brawn, Jeffrey D. and Balda, Russell P. "The Influence of Silvicultural Activity on Ponderosa Pine Forest Bird Community in the Southwestern United States" in Bird Conservation 3: 3-21. Edited by Jackson, Jerome A. The International Council for Bird Preservation, United States Section: The University of Wisconsin Press (1988).
Briceno, Jorge and Eberhard, William G. "Functional Morphology of Cerci in Male Earwigs." Proceedings of the XVIII International Congress of Entomolo
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada: 208 (1988).

<<<Page: 177>>>

Brucher, Heinz. Useful Plants of Neotropical Origin (New York: Springer-Heidelberg, 1989).
Bush, Mark, Piperno, Dolores, and Colinvaux, P. "A 6,000 Year History of Amazonian Maize Cultivation." Nature 340: 303-305 (1989).
Camargo, J.M.F., Moure, J.S. and Roubik, David W. "Melipona yucatanica New Species (Hymenoptera: Apidae: Meliponinae); Stingless Bee Dispersal Across the Caribbean Arc and Post-Eucene Vicariance." Pan-Pacific Entomologist 64 (2): 147-157 (1988).
Castro, Gonzalo. Ecophysiology of Sanderlings Migrating to Four Different Latitudes. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1988).
Castro, Gonzalo and Castro, J.S. "A Dovokie at Island Beach State Park." Cassinia 62: 61-62 (1988).
Castro, Gonzalo and Myers, J.P. "Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus) Records from Panama.” American Birds 42 (3): 374 (1988).
Christy, John H. "Attractiveness, Mate Choice and a Sensory Trap in the Fiddler Crab Uca beebei" (Abstract). American Zoologist 28 (4): 133A (1988).
Cole, Kathleen S. "Predicting the Potential for Sex-Change on the Basis of Ovarian Structure in Gobiid Fishes." Copeia 1988 (4): 1082-1086 (1988).
Coley, Phyllis D. “Interspecific Variation in Plant Anti-Herbivore Properties: The Role of Habitat Quality and Rate of Disturbance." New Phytologist 106 (Suppl.): 251-263 (1987).
"Effects of Plant Growth Rate and Leaf Lifetime on the Amount and Type of Anti-Herbivore Defense." Oecologia 74: 531-536 (1988).
Coley, Phyllis D. and Aide, T. Mitchell. "Red Coloration of Tropical 3 Young Leaves: A possible Antifungal Defense?" Journal of Tropical Ecology 50: 293-300 (1989).
Cooke, Richard G. "Some Ecological and Technological Correlates of Coastal Fishing in Formative Pacific Panama” in Diet and Subsistence: Current Archaeological Perspectives: 127-140. Edited by Brenda V. Kennedy and Genevieve M. LeMoine (The Archaeological Association of the University of Calgary, 1988).
Cooke, Richard G. and Bush, Mark. "Out-of-Season Red-Necked Phalaropes in Central
Panama." Journal of Field Omithology 60 (1): 39-42 (1989). Cooke, Richard G. and Ranere, Anthony J. "Hunting in Pre-Columbian Panama: A
Diachronic Perspective" in The Walking Larder. Patterns of Domestication, Pastoralism, and Predation: 295-315 (1989)).
Craig, Catherine L. "The Significance of Spider Size to the Diversification of Spider-Web Architectures and Spider Reproductive Modes." American Naturalist 129 (1): 47-68 (1987).
"Spider Webs, Behavior and Evolution, edited by W.A. Shear" (Book Teview). American Scientist 76 (1): 83-84 (1987). . "Insect Perception of Spider Orb Webs in Three Light Habitats." Functional Ecology 2 (3): 277-282 (1988).
D’Croz, Luis. "Survey and Monitoring of Marine Pollution in the Bay of Panama." Cooperation for Environmental Protection in the Pacific. UNEP Regional Seas Reports and Studies, No. 97: 115-123 (1988).
D’Croz, Luis, Wong, Luis, Justines, Gustavo and Gupta, Mahabir. "Prostaglandins and Related Compounds from the Polychaete Worm Americonuphis reesei Fauchald as Possible Inducers of Gonad Maturation in Penaeid Shrimps." Revista de Biologia Tropical 36 (2A): 331-332 (1988).

<<<Page: 178>>>

De Leén M., Israel Antonio. El] Distrito de San Francisco: La Estructura Agraria y la Produccion Agricola. Tesis, Escuela de Geografia, Facultad de Humanidades (Panama: Universidad de Panama, 1989).
De Nevers, Gregory C. “Bactris divisicupula and Bactris fuscospina Reexamined." Annals of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75 (3): 1151-1152 (1988).
De Nevers, Gregory C. and Henderson, Andrew. "A New Calyptrogyne (Palmae: Geonomeae) from Panama." Systematic Botany 13 (3): 428-431 (1988).
DeVries, Philip J. "The Larval Ant-Organs of Thisbe irenea (Lepidoptera: Riodinidae) and their Effects Upon Attending Ants." Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 94 (4): 379-393 (1988).
. "Stratification of Fruit-Feeding Nymphalid Butterflies in a Costa Rican Rainforest." Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera 26 (1-4): 98-108 (1988). "The Use of Epiphylls as Larval Hostplants by the Neotropical Riodinid
Butterfly Sarota gyas." Journal of Natural History 22 (6): 1447-1450 (1988). DeVries, Philip J. and Dudley, Robert. "The Lives of Butterflies, by Matthew M. Douglas”
(Book review). Journal of the New York Entomological Society 96 (2): 248-251 (1988).
Dosman, Rosana. Wariaciédn Genética de las Poblaciones de Hydrilla verticillata (L.F.) Royle, en el Lago Gattin. Tesis, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas. (Panama, Universidad de Panaméd, 1989).
Dressler, Robert L. and Cook, Summer L. "Conical Silica Bodies in Ena javanica." Lindleyana 3 (4): 224-225 (1988).
Eberhard, William G. "“Aspectos Ecoldgicos del Manejo Integrado de del Seminario sobre Manejo Integrado de Plagas, San José, Costa Rica. Serie Técnica. Informe Técnico No. 81: 22-23 (1988).
. "Behavioral Flexibility in Orb Web Construction." Journal of Arachnology
16: 295-302 (1988).
"Combing and Sticky Silk Attachment Behaviour by Cnibellate Spiders and Its Taxonomic Implications." Bulletin of the British Arachnological Society 7 (8): 247-251 (1988).
"Effect of Horizontal vs. Vertical Onentation of Orb Webs on Prey Retention." Bulletin of the British Arachnological Society 7: 247-251 (1988).
"Group Nesting in Two Species of Euglossa Bees." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 61: 406-411 (1989).
"Paradoxical Post-Genitalic Contact Courtship in the Fly Himantigera nigrifemoralis (Diptera: Stratiomyidae)." Psyche 95: 115-122 (1988).
“Why Do Plasmids Carry Some Genes and Not Others?" Plasmid. 21: 167174 (1989).
Feener Jr., Donald H. "Size-Selective Oviposition in Pseudacteon crawfordi (Diptera: Phoridae), a Parasite of Fire Ants." Annals of the Entomological Society of America 80 (2): 148-151 (1987).
Feener Jr., Donald H., Lighton, John R.B. and Bartholomew, George A. "Curvilinear Allometry, Energetics and Foraging Ecology: A Comparison of Leaf-Cutting Ants and Army Ants." Functional Ecology 2 (4): 509-520 (1988).
"Energetics Costs of Foraging: A Comparison of Leaf-Cutting Ants and Army Ants" (Abstract). Proceedings of the XVIII International Congress of Entomology, Vancouver, British Colombia, Canada: 233 (1988).
Fisher, Bnan Lee and Zimmerman, Jess K. "Ant/Orchid Associations in the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, Panama." Lindleyana 3 (1): 12-16 (1988).

<<<Page: 179>>>

Fleishman, Leo J. "Sensory and Environmental Influences on Display Form in Anolis auratus, a Grass Anole from Panama." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 22 (5): 309-316 (1988).
. "Sensory Influences on Physical Design of a Visual Display." Animal Behaviour 36 (5): 1420-1424 (1989).
Foster, Robin B. "Tropical America: Stll an Unknown Termitory." Tropicus 3: 4, 7 (Spring 1988).
"Vegetation of the Beni." Onion (Summer 1989): 39.
Foster, Susan A. "Acquisition of a Defended Resource: A Benefit of Group Foraging for the Neotropical Wrasse, Thalassoma Jucasanum.” Environmental Biology of Fishes 19 (3): 215-222 (1987).
. "The Relative Impacts of Grazing by Caribbean Coral Reef Fishes and Diadema: Effects of Habitat and Surge." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology (1987).
Fraga, Rosendo M. "Arboles de Nidificacién y Tamafio de Colonia en la Oropéndula Psarocolius montezumae." Programa y Publicacién de Resiimenes, W Reunion Iberoamericana de Conservacién y Zoologia de Vertebrados: Comunicacién a Simposio No. 8 (Montevideo, 1988).
. "Colony Sizes and Nest Trees of Montezuma Oropendolas in Costa Rica." Journal of Field Ornithology 60 (3): 289-420 (1989).
. "Nest Sites and Breeding Success of Baywinged Cowbirds (Qublothms badius)." Journal fur Omithologie 129 (2): 175-184 (1988).
Franks, Nigel. "Army Ants: A Collective Intelligence." American Scientist 77: 138-145 (1989).
Fullard, James H. and Belwood, Jacqueline J. "The Echolocation Assemblage: Acoustic Ensembles in a Neotropical Habitat" in Animal Sonar: 639-643. Edited by P.H. Hachtigall and P.W.B. Moore (New York: Plenum, 1988).
Garcia J., Milton N. Biologia Reproductiva del Escorpiédn Centruriodes margaritatus (Gervais), Buthidae. Tesis, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas. Panama: Universidad de Panama (1988).
Garwood, Nancy C. "Seed Bank Dynamics in Tropical Forests." American Journal of Botany 74 (5): 635 (1987).
Garwood, Nancy C. and Tebbs, Margaret. "An Illustrated Seedling Flora of Panama with Special Emphasis on Barro Colorado Island BCI Panama” (Abstract 17). International Botanical Congress: 455 (1987).
Glynn, Peter W. "El Nifio-Southern Oscillation 1982-1983: Nearshore Population, Community, and Ecosystem Responses." Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 19: 309-345 (1988).
Gonzalez, Eric Edgardo. Quantitative Distribution of Soft-Bottom Intertidal Fauna of Some Beaches in Panama City, Panama. A Thesis, Presented to the Department of Biology, for the Degree of Master of Science (Long Beach: California State University, 1988).
Gradwohl, Judith and Greenberg, Russell. Saving the Tropical Forests. London: Earthscan Publications (1988).
Graham, Alan. "Studies in Neotropical Paleobotany. V. The Lower Miocene Communities
of Panama The Culebra Formation. Annals of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75 (4): 1440-1466 (1988).

<<<Page: 180>>>

"Studies in Neotropical Paleobotany. WI. The Lower Miocene Communities of Panama The Cucaracha Formation. Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 75 (4) 1467-1479 (1988).
Grayum, Michael H. and De Nevers, Gregory C. "New and Rare Understory Palms from the Peninsula de Osa, Costa Rica, and Adjacent Regions." Principes 32 (3): 101114 (1988).
Greene, Harry W. "Antipredator Mechanisms in Reptiles" in Biology of the Reptilia: 1153. Edited by Carl Gans (New York: Alan R. Liss, 1988).
Greenfield, Michael D. "Interspecific Acoustic Interactions Among Katydids Neoconocephalus: Inhibition-Induced Shifts in Diel Periodicity." Animal Behavior 36 (3): 684-695 (1988).
Gupta, Mahabir, Solis, Pablo, Miranda, Carmen, Montenegro, Orlando, Martinez, Régulo, Varela, Luis A. and Correa, Mireya. “Actividad Antmicrobiana en Plantas Medicinales de Panama." Revista Médica de Panama 13: 79-84 (1988).
Gutiérrez, Patricia C. "The Ecology and Behavior of the Mangrove Periwinkle, Littorina angulifera." Biotropica 20 (4): 352-356 (1988).
Guttman, S.J. and Weight, L.A. "Electrophoretic Evidence of Relationships among Quercus (Oaks) of Eastern North America." Canadian Journal of Botany 67: 339-351 (1989).
Guzman, Héctor M. "Distnbucién y Abundancia de Organismos Coralivoros en los Arrecifes Coralinos de la Isla del Cafio, Costa Rica. Revista de Biologia Tropical 36 (2A): 191-207 (1988).
. "Feeding Activity of the Corallivorous Gastropod Quoyula monodonta (Blanville)." Revista de Biologia Tropical 36 (2A): 209-212 (1988). "Primer Informe de un Coral Acropérido para el Pacifico Oriental: Critica a Prahl y Mejia." Revista de Biologia Tropical 36 (1): 163-166 (1988).
Guzman, Héctor M. and Cortés, Jorge. "Growth Rates of Eight Species of Scleractinian Corals in the Eastern Pacific (Costa Rica)." Bulletin of Marine Science 44 (3): 1186-1194 (1989).
. "Coral Reef Community Structure at Cafio Island, Pacific Costa Rica." Marine Ecology 10 (1): 23-41 (1989).
Guzman, Héctor M. and Obando, Vilma L. "Diversidad y Abundancia Diaria Estacional del Zooplancton Marino de la Isla del Cafio, Costa Rica." Revista de Biologia Tropical 36 (1): 139-150 (1988).
Guzman, Héctor M. and Robertson, D. Ross. “Responses of a Corallivorous Pufferfish to Mass Mortalities of Eastern Pacific Corals" (Abstract 155). Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 39 (1988).
"Population and Feeding Responses of the Corallivorous Putterfish Arothron meleagnis to coral mortality in the Eastern Pacific. Marne Ecology 55 (2-3): 121131 (1989).
Herre, Edward Allen. "Coevolution of Reproductive Characteristics in 12 Species of New
World Figs and Their Pollinator Wasps." Experientia 45: 637-647 (1989). "Theoretical Studies on Sex Ratio Evolution by Samuel Karlin and Sabin Lessard" (Book review). Journal of Genetics 66 (2): 159-161 (1987).
Hogan, Kevin P. "Photosynthesis in Two Neotropical Palm Species." Functional Ecology 2 (3): 371-377 (1988).
Holness Carrasco, Daniel. Estimacién de la Biomasa y la Productividad de Hydmilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle, en Dos Sitios de la Isla de Barro Colorado. Tesis, Escuela de Biologta, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama: Universidad de © Panama, 1989).

<<<Page: 181>>>

Howard, Jerome J. "Leafcutting Ant Diet Selection: The Role of Nutrients Water and Secondary Chemistry." Ecology 68 (3): 503-505 (1987).
. “Leafcutting Ant Diet Selection: Relative Influence of Leaf Chemistry and Physical Features." Ecology 69 (1): 250-260 (1988).
Howard, Jerome J., Cazin Jr., John and Wiemer, David F. "Toxicity of Terpenoid Deterrents to the Leafcutting Ant Atta cephalotes and its Mutualistic Fungus." Journal of Chemical Ecology 14 (1): 59-70 (1988).
Howden, Henry F. "A New Genus and Four New Species of New World Trichiinae (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae)." The Coleopterists Bulletin 42 (3): 241-250 (1988).
Howe, Henry F. "Scatter and Clump-Dispersal and Seedling Demography = Hypothesis and Implications.". Oecologia 79 (3): 417-426 (1989).
Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Does Ecology Matter?" Book review of Evolution and Escalation: An Ecological History of Life, by Geerat J. Vermeij. Paleobiology 14 (3): 307-312 (1988).
Jackson, Jeremy B.C., Guzman, Héctor M. and Weil, Emesto. "Effects of a Major Oil Spill on Subtidal Reef Corals along the Caribbean Coast of Panama” (Abstract 203). Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 51 (1988).
Jackson, J.B.C., Cubit, J.D., Keller, B.D., Batista, V., Burns, K., Caffey, H.M., Caldwell, R.L., Garrity, $.D., Getter, C.D., Gonzdlez, C., Guzman, H.M., Kaufman, K.W., Knap, A.H., Levings, S.C., Marshall, M.J., Steger, R., Thompson, R.C. and Weil, E. "Ecological Effects of a Major Oil Spill on Panamanian Coastal Marine Comunities." Science 243 (6 January, 1989): 37-44.
Jiménez Mufioz, Yolanda del Carmen y Timm Peralta, Eyda Julieta. Estudio Bacterioldgico de Playas de Anidacién de la Tortuga Marina Lepidochelys olivacea. Tesis, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama: Universidad de Panama, 1989).
Joly, L.G., Guerra, S., Séptimo, R., Solis, P.N., Correa, Mireya, Gupta, M., Levy, S. and Sandberg, F. "Ethnobotanical Inventory of Medicinal Plants Used by the Guaymi Indians in Western Panama. Part I." Journal of Ethnopharmacology 20: 145-171 (1988).
Karr, James R. "Birds" in Tropical Rain Forest Ecosystems: 401-416. Edited by H. Lieth and M.J.A. Werner (Amsterdam: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1989).
Keller, Bnan D. "On Evaluating Ecological Effects of a Major Oil Spill on the Caribbean Coast of Panama" in Oil Spill Conference, Proceedings of the 20th Anniversary Conference, February 13-16, 1989: 578 (Washington, D.C.: American Petroleum Institute, Publication 4479, 1989).
Kilar, John A. and Norris, James N. "Composition, Export, and Import of Drift Vegetation on a Tropical, Plant-Dominated, Fringing-Reef Platform (Caribbean Panama)." Coral Reefs 7 (2): 93-103 (1988).
Kitajima, Kaoru and Augspurger, Carol K. "Seed and Seedling Ecology of a Monocarpic Tropical Tree, Tachigalia versicolor." Ecology 70 (4): 1102-1114 (1989).
Kite, Geoffrey C., Fellows, Linda E., Fleet, George W.J., Liu, Paul S., Scofield, Anthony M. and Smith, Neal G. "a Homonojirimycin from Omphalea diandra L.: Isolation and Glucosidase Inhibition." Tetrahedron Letters 29 (49): 6483-6486 (1988).
Knowlton, Nancy. "Coral Bleaching in Panama and Considerations for the Future." Mass Bleaching of Coral Reefs in the Caribbean: A Research Strategy, National Undersea Research Program Research Report 88 (2): 35-37 (1988).

<<<Page: 182>>>

. "A Coral Reef Directory" (Book review). Trends in Ecology and Evolution 4 (10): 305-306 (1989).
Knowlton, Nancy, Lang, Judith C. and Keller, Brian D. "Predation on Caribbean Staghorn Coral Threshold Models and Their Implications” (Abstract 220). 6th International Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 55 (1988).
Kursar, Thomas A. "Evaluation of Soil Respiration and soil CO, Concentration in a Lowland Moist Forest in Panama." Plant and Soil 113: 21-29 (1989).
Laguna, Jorge E. "“Euraphia eastropacensis (Cirripedia, Chthamalodea), A New Species of Barnacle from the Tropical Easter Pacific: Morphological and Electrophoretic Comparisons with Euraphia rhizophorae (deOliveira) from the Tropical Eastern Atlantic and Molecular Evolutionary Implications." Pacific Science 41 (1-4): 132-140 (1987).
Lamela Apolayo, Deisa Piedad y Vivero Hamilton, Enc. Macroinvertebrados Asociados a Hydrmilla verticillata en el Lago Gatin. Tesis, Escuela de Biologta, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (Panama: Universidad de Panama, 1989).
Leigh, Jr., Egbert Giles. "The Evolution of Individuality, by Leo W. Buss" (Book review). The Condor 91 (1): 223-225 (1989).
. "Foraging Theory, by D.W. Stephens and J.R. Krebs" (Book review). The Condor 91 (1): 222-223 (1989). . "Natural Selection in the Wild, by John A. Endler" (Book review). The Condor 90 (1): 279-284 (1988). Lessios, Harilaos A. "Effects of Caribbean Echinoids on Coral Recruitment and
Survivorship" (Abstract). 6th International Coral Reef Symposium: 62 (1988). "Mass Mortality of Diadema antillarum in the Caribbean: What Have We
Learned?" Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 19: 371-393 (1988). "Population Dynamics of Diadema antillarum (Echinodermata: Echinoidea) Following Mass Mortality in Panama." Marine Biology 99: 515-526 (1988).
Liesner, Ronald L. and D’Arcy, William G. "Two New Species of Inga Leguminosae) from Panama." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 75 (1): 385-388 (1988).
McKinney, F.K. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. Bryozoan Evolution (Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989).
McMillan, Calvin. "Seed Germination and Seedling Development of Halophila decipiens Ostenfeld (Hydrocharitaceae) from Panama." Aquatic Botany 31: 169-176 (1988)
"The Seed Reserve of Halophila decipiens Ostenfeld (Hydrocharitaceae) in Panama." Aquatic Botany 31: 177-182 (1988).
McMillan, Calvin and Soong, Keryea. "An Annual Cycle Flowering, Fruiting and Seed Reserve for Halophila decipiens Ostenfeld (Hydrocharitaceae) in Panama." Aquatic Botany 34: 375-379 (1989).
McPherson, Gordon. "A New Species of Vantanea (Humiriaceae) from Panama." Annals of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75 (3): 1148-1149 (1988).
. "New and Noteworthy Taxa from Panama." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 75 (1): 373-378 (1988).
May, M.L. and Knoff, K.W. "Neocordulia campana Spec. Nov., A New Species of Dragonfly from Panama (Anisoptera: Corduliidae)." Odontologica 17 (1): 33-44 (1988).

<<<Page: 183>>>

Miller, David L., Leonard, Paul M., Hughes, Robert M., Karr, James R., Moyle, Peter B., Schrader, Lynn H., Thompson, Bruce A., Daniels, Robert A., Fausch, Kurt D., Fitzhugh, Gary A., Gammon, James R., Halliwell, David B., Angermeier, Paul L. and Orth, Donald J. "Regional Applications of an Index of Biotic Integrity for Use in Water Resource Management." Fisheries 13 (5): 12-20 (1988).
Miller, James S. "A Revised Treatment of Boraginaceae for Panama." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 75 (2): 456-521 (1988).
Milton, Katharine and Jenness, Robert. "Ascorbic Acid Content of Neotropical Plant Parts Available to Wild Monkeys and Bats." Experientia 43 (3): 339-342 (1987).
Mitchell, J., Bort, John and Sabella J. "Children’s Perceptions of Aging Adults: An Exploration of Differences in Caribbean Panama." Journal of Cross-Cultural Gerontology 2 (4): 297-320 (1987).
Morin, James G. and Cohen, Anne C. "Two New Luminescent Ostracodes of the Genus Vargula (Myodocopida: Cypridinidae) from The San Blas Region of Panama." Journal of Crustacean Biology 8 (4): 620-638 (1988).
Morton, Eugene S. and Greenberg, Rusell. "The Outlook for Migratory Songbirds: "Future Shok"” for Birdirs.". American Birds 43 (1): 178-183. (Spring 1989).
Padilla, Diana K. “Algal Structural Defenses: Form and Calcification in Resistance to Tropical Limpets.” Ecology 70 (4): 835-842 (1989).
Paz S., Nicolas. "Ecologia: y Aspectos del Comportamiento en Linothele sp. (Araneae, Dipluridae)." Journal of Arachnology 16 (1): 5-22 (1988).
Piperno, Dolores. "The Application of Phytolith Analysis to Paleoethnobotany and Paleoecology in the American Tropics” (Abstract). Annual Meeting of the Society for American Archaeology (1989).
. "Human Paleoecology in the Humid Tropics of Panama" (Abstract). First Joint Archaeological Congress. (Baltimore, Maryland, 1989).
"Non-Affluent Foragers: Resource Availability, Seasonal Shortages and the Emergence of Agriculture in Panamanian Forests" in Foraging and Farming: The Evolution of Plant Exploitation: 538-554. Edited by D. Harris and G. Hillman (London: Unwin-Hyman, 1989).
"The Occurrence of Phytoliths in the Reproductive Structures of Tropical Angiosperms and Their Significance in Tropical Plaeocology, Paleoethnobotany, and Systematics." Review of Palaeobotany and Palynology (1989).
. "The Ongins and Development of Food Production in Pacific Panama” in Development of Hunting-Fishing-Gathering Societies on the Central and South America Pacific Coast. Edited by Michael Blake. Proceedings of the Circum Pacific Prehistory Conference (Washington: Washington State University Press, 1989)
Pratt, Stephen C. "Recruitment and Other Communication Behavior in the Ponerine Ant Ectatomma ruidum."” Ethology 81: 313-331 (1989).
Pringle, C.M., Naiman, R.J., Bretschko, G., Karr, James R., Oswood, M.W., Webster J.R., Welcomme, R.L. and Winterbourn, M.J. "Patch Dynamics in Lotic Systems The Stream as a Mosaic." Journal of the North American Benthological Society 7 (4): 503-524 (1988).
Ragland, H.C. and Fischer, Eric A. "Internal Fertilization and Male Parental Care in the Scalyhead Sculpin, Artedius barringtoni." Copeia 1987 (4): 1059-1062 (1987).
Rand, A. Stanley, Font, Enrique, Ramos, Diniz, Werner, Dagmar I., and Bock, Brian C. "Home Range in Green Iguana (Iguana iguana) in Panama.” Copeia 1989 (1): 217221 (1989).

<<<Page: 184>>>

Reed, Jonathan R. "Inca Terms in the Bay of Panama During the 1982-1983 El] Nino Event." American Birds 42 (2): 172-173 (1988).
Robertson, D. Ross. "Settlement and Population Dynamics of Abudefduf saxatilis on Patch Reefs in Caribbean Panama" (Abstract 350). Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 88 (1988).
. "The Surgeonfish Acanthurus lineatus grows hedgerows of Macroalgae." Reef Sites (1989).
Robertson, D. Ross and Brawn, Jeffrey D. "Variation in Settlement by Caribbean Damselfishes: How Much Due to Variation in Larval Production?" (Abstract 351). Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium Abstracts: 88 (1988).
Rodda, Gordon, Bock, Brian, Burghardt, Gordon and Rand, A. Stanley. "Techniques for Identifying Lizard Individuals at a Distance Reveal Influences of Handling." Copeia 1988 (4): 905-913 (1988).
Rose, Gary B., Zellick, Randy D. and Rand, A. Stanley. 1988. “Auditory Processing of Temporal Information in a Neotropical Frog is Independent of Signal Intensity." Ethology 77: 330-336 (1988).
Roubik, David W. "Biogeography and Taxonomy of Honey Bees, by Friedrich Ruttner” (Book review). American Scientist 77: 82 (1989).
. Ecology and Natural History of Tropical Bees. (New York: Cambridge University, Press, 1989) 514 pp.
Rubinoff, Ira. "Prdlogo/Preface" in Descornendo la Cortina Verde: FEvolucié6n de la Biologia Tropical En Panama. Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama, by G.R. Angehr: ili-iv. Panama, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Anaconda Press, 1989).
. "Tax Rich Nations, Save the Jungle." International Wildlife 18 (3): 24 (1988).
"The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute." Environment 31 (5) (1989).
Ryan, Michael J. "Constraints and Patterns in the Evolution of Anuran Acoustic Communication" in The Evolution of the Amphibian Auditory System, Chapter Twenty Eight: 637-677. Edited by Bernd Fritzsch, Michael J. Ryan, Walter Wilczynski, Thomas E. Hetherington and Wolfgang Walkowiak (New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1988).
Ryan, Michael J. "Energy, Calling, and Selection.’ (1988).
Schuup, Eugene W. "Factors Affecting Post-Dispersal Seed Survival in a Tropical Forest." Oecologia 76 (4): 525-530 (1988).
Schuup, Eugene W., Howe, Henry F., Augspurger, Carol K. and Levey, Douglas J. "Arrival and Survival in Tropical Treefall Gaps." Ecology 70 (3): 562-564. Siemens, Alfred H., Hebda, Richard J., Navarrete Hernandez, Mario, Piperno, Dolores R., Stein, Julie K. and Zold Baez, Manuel G. "Evidence for a Cultivar and A Chronology from Patterned Wetlands in Central Veracruz, Mexico." Science 242
(4875): 105-107 (1988).
Silva F., Jorge. “Martin y Cuervo en Extrafas Interacciones." La Estrella de Panama (Marzo 14, 1989): B1.
Smith III, Thomas J., Chan, Hung T., McIvor, Carole C. and Robblee, Michael B. “Comparisons of Seed Predator in Tropical, Tidal Forests from Three Continents." Ecology 70 (1): 146-151 (1989).
Smythe, Nicholas. "Seed Survival in the Palm Astrocaryum standleyanum: Evidence for Dependence Upon its Seed Dispersers." Biotropica 21 (1): 50-56 (1989).
American Zoologist 28: 885-898

<<<Page: 185>>>

Steger, Rick. "Effects of Refuges and Recruitment on Gonodactylid Stomatopods, A Guild of Mobile Prey." Ecology 68 (5): 1520-1533 (1987).
Sternberg, L. da S.L., Mulkey, S.S. and Wright, S. Joseph. "Ecological Interpretation of Leaf Carbon Isotope Ratios: Influence of Respired Carbon Dioxide." Ecology 70(5): 1317-1324.
Sweatman, Hugh. "Field Evidence that Settling Coral Reef Fish Larvae Detect Resident Fishes Using Dissolved Chemical Cues." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 124 (4): 163-174 (1988).
Tanaka, Seiji. "Field Work in Panama, Central America On Adult Diapause in Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) 1." Insectarium 25: 222-231 (1988).
"Field Work in Panama, Central America On Adult Diapause in Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) 2." Insectarium 25: 256-265 (1988).
"Field Work in Panama, Central America On Adult Diapause in Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) 3." Insectarium 25: 282-294 (1988).
"Field Work in Panama, Central America On Adult Diapause in Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) 4." Insectarium 25: 330-338 (1988).
"Field Work in Panama, Central America On Adult Diapause in Stenotarsus rotundus (Endomychidae) 5." Insectarium 25: 356-362 (1988).
"Tropical Seed Bugs (Ropalidae) Dropping Effects from the Canopy of Forest in Panama." Insectarium 25 (5): 148-153.
Tanaka, Seiji, Denlinger, David L. and Wolda, Henk. "Seasonal Changes in the Photoperiodic Response Regulating Diapause in a Tropical Beetle, Stenotarsus rotundus." Journal of Insect Physiology 34 (12): 1135-1142 (1988).
Trainer, Jill M. "Behavioral Associations of Song Types During Aggressive Interactions Among Male Yellow-Rumped Caciques." The Condor 89 (4): 731-738 (1987).
"Cultural Evolution in Song Dialects of Yellow-Rumped Caciques in Panama.” Ethology 80: 190-204 (1989).
Van der Weff, Henk. "Eight New Species and One New Combination of Neotropical Lauraceae." Annals of the Missoun Botanical Garden 75 (2): 402-419 (1988). Vollrath, Fitz. "Spider Growth as an Indicator of Habitat Quality." Bulletin of the British
Arachnological Society 7 (7): 217-219 (1988).
Weislo, William T., West-Eberhard, Mary Jane and Eberhard, William G. "Natural History and Behavior of a Prmitively Social Wasp, Auplopus semialatus, and Its Parasite, Irenangelus eberhardi (Hymenoptera: Pompilidae).". Journal of Insect Behavior 1 (3): 247-260 (1988).
Weinberg, James R. and Starczak, Victoria R. "Morphological Differences and Low Dispersal Between Local Populations of the Tropical Beach Isopod, Exciolana braziliensis.” Bulletin of Marine Science 42 (2): 296-309 (1988).
Weidenfeld, David A. Ecomorphology and Foraging Behavior of the Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia). Ph.D. dissertation, College of Arts and Sciences. The Florida State University (1988).
Wellington, Gerard M. and Victor, Benjamin C. "Variation in Components of Reproductive Success in an Undersaturated Population of Coral-Reef Damselfish: A Field Perspective." The American Naturalist 131 (4): 588-601 (1988).
Wells, Kentwood D. "Vocal Communication in a Neotropical Treefrog, Hyla ebraccata: Responses of Males to Graded Aggressive Calls." Copeia 1989 (2): 461-466 (1989).
West, Lani. "Prey Selection by the Tropical Snail Thais melones: A Study of Interindividual Variation." Ecology 69 (6): 1839-1854 (1988).

<<<Page: 186>>>

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Kin Recognition in Animals." Evolution 43 (3): 703-705 (1989).
"Observations of Xenorphynchium nitidulum (Fabricius) Hymenoptera, Eumeninae), A Primitively Social Wasp." Psyche 94 (3-4): 317-323 (1987).
. "Phenotypic Plasticity and "Genetic" Theories of Insect Sociality" in Evolution of Social Behavior and Integrative Levels: 123-133. Edited by E. Tobach and G. Greenberg (Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum Press, 1988).
"Phenotypic Plasticity and the Ongins of Diversity." Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 20: 249-278 (1989).
"Scent-Trail Diversion, a Novel Defense Against Ants by Tropical Social Wasps." Biotropica 21 (2) (1989).
West-Eberhard, Mary Jane and Eberhard, William G. "Sexual and Social Selection and the Species-Specificity of Insect Signals." Proceedings of the XVII International
ss of Entomolo Vancouver, Bnitish lombia, Canada: 205 (1988).
Wheeler, Diana E. and Levings, Sally C. "The Impact of the 1983 El Nifio Drought on the Litter Arthropods of Barro Colorado Island, Panama," in Advances in Myrmecology, Chapter 19: 309-326. Edited by Trager, James C. New York: EJ. Brill (1988).
Williams-Linera, Guadalupe. Development of Tropical Forest Edge Vegetation. Ph.D. dissertation, (Gainesville: University of Florida, 1989).
Wilczynski, Walter and Ryan, Michael J. "Microgeographic Variation in the Acoustic Communication System of the Cricket Frog" (Abstract, 13). 17th Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience, New Orleans, Louisiana, November 16-21, 1987: 869 (1987).
. "The Amphibian Auditory System as a Model for Neurobiology, Behavior, and Evolution" in The Evolution of the Amphibian Auditory System, Chapter One: 3-12. Edited by Bernd Fnitzsch, Michael J. Ryan, Walter Wilczynski, Thomas E. Hetherington and Wolfgang Walkowiak (New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1988).
Williams, Norris H. and Whitten, W. Mark. "Stanhopea panamensis, A New Species from Central Panama (Orchidaceae)." Lindleyana 3 (1): 9-11 (1988).
Windsor, Donald M., Morrison, D.W., Estribi, M.A. and De Leén, B. "Phenology of Fruit and Leaf Production by ’Strangler’ Figs on Barro Colorado Island, Panama." Experientia 45: 647-653 (1989).
Wolda, Henk. "Energy Requirements of Tropical Insects During an Adverse Season." Nutnoonal Ecology of Insects and Environment: 1-9 (1989).
. "Insect Seasonality, Why?" Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 19: 1-18 (1988).
Zeh, David W. “Aggression, Density, and Sexual Dimorphism in Chernetid Pseudoscorpions (Arachnida: Pseudoscorpionida)." Evolution 41 (5): 1072-1087 (1987).
. "Sexual Selection" (Book review of Testing the Alternatives, by J.W. Bradbury and M.B. Andersson, eds.). American Scientist 77: 181-182 (1989).
Zeh, David W. and Zeh, Jeanne A. "Condition-Dependent Sex Ormaments and Field Tests of Sexual-Selection Theory." American Naturalist 132 (3): 454-459 (1988).
Zeh, David W., Zeh, Jeanne A. and Smith, Robert L. "Ovipositors, Amnions and Eggshell Architecture in the Diversification of Terrestrial Arthropods." The Quarterly Review of Biology 64 (2): 147-168 (1989).

<<<Page: 187>>>

Zimmerman, Jess K. and Aide, T. Mitchell. "Patterns of Flower and Fruit Production in the Orchid Aspasia principissa Reichb.". American Journal of Botany 74 (5): 661 (1987).
Zimmerman, Jess K., Roubik, David W. and Ackerman, James D. "Asynchronous Phenologies of a Neotropical Orchid and its Euglossine Bee Pollinator.". Ecology 70 (4): 1192-1195 (1989).
Dorsey, William, Delilah W. Pierce, and Peter L. Robinson, Jr. Inspiration, 1961-1989. Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.
Brown, Robert F. "Regional Office Report--New England." Archives of American Art Journal, 27(4); 28(1-3).
Karlstrom, Paul. "Archives of American Art: The Memory of Art in America." The Newsletter of the American Federation of Arts, 2(2). Summer 1989.
"Introduction." USArt 1989. "Regional Office Report--West Coast." Archives of American Art Journal,” 17:(4).* -28(1=3)))<
Kirwin, Liza. The Papers of African American Artists. Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution, 1989.
"Regional Office Report--Southeast." Archives of American Art Journals. (274 )3° 28(-1=3)). Kirwin, Liza and Margaret Kinzer. "Drawings and Sketchbooks in the Collection of the Archives of American Art." Drawing, (Jan-Feb 1989):
97-102". McNaught, William. "Regional Office Report--New York." Archives of American Art Journal, 27(4); 28(1-3). Pacini, Marina. "The Philadelphia Arts Documentation Project." Archives of American Art Journal, 27(4):2-4. "Who but the Arts Council." Archives of American Art Journal, 27(4):9-23. Regional Office Report--Philadelphia." Archives of American Art Journal, 27(4); 28(1-3). Stover, Catherine. "James L. Claghorn, Philadelphia Collector." Archives of American Art Journal, 27(4).

<<<Page: 188>>>

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY and FREER GALLERY OF ART
Beach, Milo C., “Art in Context," Humanities, March 1989.
"The Mughal Artist." In Making Things in South Asia (Michael Meister, ed.), Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1989.
Chase, W. Thomas, III. “Lacquer Examination and Treatment at the Freer Gallery of Art: Some Case Histories," in Urushi; Proceedings of the Urushi Study Group, June 10-27, 1985, Tokyo, Getty Conservation Institute, Marina Del Rey, California, 1988.
; Jett, Paul; Koob, Stephen P.; and Norman, Jane. "The Treatment of a Chinese Red Lacquer Stationery Box." Preprints of the 1988 TIC Conference on Far Eastern Art, London: IIC, 1988.
, and Veloz, Nicolas, "Methods for Cleaning Outdoor Sculptures," Technology and Conservation, 1989.
Cort, Louise, "The Changing Fortunes of Three Archaic Japanese Textiles," in Cloth and Human Experience. Studies in Ethnographic Inquiry. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.
, "The Role of the Potter in South Asia,” in Making Things in South Asia: The Role of Artist and Craftsman. Proceedings of the South Asian Seminar 1985-86, University of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1989.
, "Looking with the Heart," Studio Potter, vol. 17, no. 1 (Winter 1988).
FitzHugh, Elisabeth West, "Study of Pigments on Selected Paintings from the Vever Collection," in Glenn D. Lowry and Milo C. Beach, An Annotated and Illustrated Checklist of the Vever Collection, Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Washington, D.C., and University of Washington Press, Seattle and London, 1988, pp. 425-432.
Fu, Shen C.Y., “Chang Dai-chien’s Figure Paintings of Chinese Opera Characters," Hsiung Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, no. 218 (April 1989), 5661.
, "Discussing the Paintings of Fu Chuang-fu on His 80th Birthday," Hsiung Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, no. 217 (March 1989,), 109-118.
Gunter, Ann C., “Sculptural Dedications at Labraunda,” in Architecture and Society in Hecatomnid Caria. Proceedings of a conference in Uppsala and Stockholm, October 1987. Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis. Boreas: Uppsala Studies in Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Civilizations, 1989.
Jett, Paul, “The Examination and Treatment of Ancient Silver," Papers of the
Cultural Property. Tokyo: Tokyo National Institute of Cultural Property, 1989. "An Example of the Use of Brass in Chinese Lacquer Ware," Archives of
Asian Art, 1989.
Kecskes, Lily, “Ink: A Scholar’s Tool and Work of Art," Calligraphy Review, vol. 6, no. 2 (Winter 1988). ee
Koob, Stephen, "The Conservation and Restoration of Red-figure Stampos No. 4830-3," Expedition, Vol. 30, no. 2, 1988, pp. 29-30.
Lawton, Thomas. “Review of Xu Bangda, Gu shu hua wei e kao ban [Examination and identification of the forging of ancient calligraphy and painting}."
Ars Orientalis, XVII (1988).

<<<Page: 189>>>

Lowry, Glenn D., "The House of Timur," Asian Art II (Spring, 1989).
, with Milo C. Beach, An Illustrated and Annotated Checklist of the Vever Collection, Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler Gallery; and
Seattle and London: University of Washington Press, 1988. , and Susan Nemazee, A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the Book from the
Vever Collection. Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, and Seattle, Wash.: University of Washington Press, 1988.
, and Thomas W. Lentz, Timur and the Princely Vision: Persian Art and
Culture in the Fifteenth Century. Washington, D.C.: Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, and Los Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1989.
Nielsen, Kim. A photograph in Visions and Prophecy from the Time-Life Book Series, Mysteries of the Unknown.
Nishio, Yoshiyuki, "Japanese Natural Pigments," in New Directions of in Paper Conservation: Postprints of the Institute of Paper Conservation tenth annual conference, 1986 (Oxford, England, 1989)
Snyder, Janet G., “Appendix 10: Study of the Paper of Selected Paintings from the Vever Collection," in Glenn D. Lowry and Milo C. Beach, An Annotated
Gallery, Washington, D.C., and University of Washington Press, Seattle
and London, 1988, pp. 433-440.
Stuart, Jan. "Bats of Good Fortune," Zoogoer, vol. 18, no. 4, July-August, 1989, p. 19, to celebrate the reopening of the bat cave at the National Zoological Park.
Winter, John, and Emile Joel, "‘Lead White’ in Japanese Paintings (II) -Measurements of Lead-Isotope Ratios," Kobunkazai no Kagaku, vol. 33,
1988, pp. 33-44. Yonemura, Ann, "Art and Authority: A Tokugawa Palanquin,” Asian Art vol. 2,
no. 1 (Winter, 1989). , "Splendour and Supremacy: Lacquer for the Tokugawa," in The Tokugawa
Collection: The Japan of the Shoguns. Montreal, Canada: The Montreal Museums of Fine Arts, 1989.

<<<Page: 190>>>

Arah, C.O., D.K. McNamara, H.M. Hand, and M.F. Mecklenburg. "The Correlation Between Adhesive Stress Relaxation and Joint Performance," in Tomorrow's Materials Today, Science of
Advanced Materials and Process Engineering Series 34, p. 1434, Society for the Advancement of Materials and Process
Engineering, 1989."The Correlation Between Adhesive Stress Relaxation and Joint Performance," SAMPE Journal 25(4) (1989):11-14. Arah, C.0., H.M. Hand, D.K. McNamara, and M.F. Mecklenburg, "Techniques for Screening Adhesives for Structural Applications," Journal of Adhesion Science and Technology 3(4) (1989) :261. Ballard, Mary W., and Virginia Pledger. "Mannequins: A Reexamination," American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented
at the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 29, Cincinnati, May 31-June 4, 1989.
Baker, M.T., D. van der Reyden, and N. Ravenal. "Analysis and Characterization of Some Paper Coatings by FTIRMicrospectroscopy," American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented
at_ the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 54, Cincinnati, May 31-June 4, 1989.
Bishop, Ronald L., and Hector Neff. "Compositional Data Analysis in Archaeology," in Archaeological Chemistry IV, ed. Ralph O. Allen, pp. 57-86, Advances in Chemistry Series 220, American Chemical Society, Washington DC.
"Multivariate Analysis of Compositional Data in Archaeology," in Archaeological Chemistry IV, ed. Ralph O. Allen, pp. 576-586, Advances in Chemistry Series 220, American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C., 1989.
Bishop, R.L., A. Demarest, and R.J. Sharer. "Chemical Analysis and the Interpretation of Late Preclassic Intersite Ceramic Patterns in the Southeast Highlands of Mesoamerica," in New Frontiers in the Archaeology of the Pacific Coast of Southern Mesoamerica, eds. F. Bove and Lynette Heller, pp. 135-146. Arizona State University Anthropological Research Papers, No. 39, 1989.
Bishop, R.L., V. Canouts, S. De Atley, A. Qoyawayma, and C.W. Aikins. "The Formation of Ceramic Analytical Groups: Hopi Pottery Production and Exchange, A.D. 1300 1600," Journal of Field Archaeology 15(1988) :317-338.
Blackman, M. James, Sophie Mery, and Rita Wright. "Production and Exchange of Ceramics on the Oman Peninsula from the Perspective of Hili," Journal of Field Archaeology,
16(1) (1989): 61-78.
Brostoff Malikayil, Lynn, and Timothy Vitale. "A Study into the Effects of Solvents on Paper," American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of
Papers Presented at the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 57, Cincinnati, May 31-June 4, 1989.

<<<Page: 191>>>

Erhardt, David, and Jia-Sun Tsang. "Oil Painting: History vs. Technology," American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented at the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 38, Cincinnati, May 31-June 4, 1989.
Erhardt, David. "Relationship of Reaction Rates to Temperature," Abbey Newsletter 13(3) (1989) :38-39.
“Paper Degradation: A Comparison of Industrial and Archival Concerns," in TAPPI Proceedings: 1988 TAPPI Preservation Symposium, pp. 83-91, TAPPI Press, Atlanta, 1988.
Goodway, Martha, and Robert M. Fisher. "Phosphorus in Low Carbon Iron: Its Beneficial Properties," Historical Metalluray, 22(1988) :21-23.
Goodway, Martha. "History of Casting," Metals Handbook, 9th edition, volume 15, pp. 15-23, Casting, Metals Park, OH. . “Materials Choices for the Statue of Liberty," ASM
News 20(6) (1989) :6. ."News of Archaeometallurgy,™" Society for
Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(2) (1988) :5-6. . "News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for
Archaeological Sciences Newsletter 11(3) (1988) :6-7. . “News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 12(1) (1989) :6-7.\"News of Archaeometallurgy," Society for Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 12(2) (1989):9.
Joel, E.C., J.S. Olin, M.J. Blackman, and I.L. Barnes. “Lead Isotope Studies of Spanish, Spanish-Colonial and Mexican Majolica," in Proceedings of the 26th International Archaeometry Symposium, eds. R.M. Farquhar, R.G.V. Hancock, and L.A. Pavlish, pp. 188-195, University of Toronto, Toronto, May 16-20, 1988.
Knutson, T., and M. Ballard. "Dyeing Polyester: Disperse Dyes for Textile Conservation Work." in 20th Century Materials, Testing and Textile Conservation, Ninth Symposium, Harpers Ferry Regional Textile Group, pp. 57-74, November, 1988.
Mathisen, Susan. The Effects of Moth Resistance Agents on the
Lightfastness of Natural Dyes, 78 pp., M.A. thesis, Fashion Institute of Technology, 1989.
McCormick-Goodhart, Mark. "Research on Collodion Glass Plate Negatives: Coating Thickness and FTIR Identification of Varnishes," in Topics in Photographic Preservation, Vol. 3, pp. 135-150, compiler Robin E. Siegel, American Institute for Conservation, Photographic Materials Group (PMG), Washington DC, 1989, Postprints from the Winter meeting in Kansas City, March 3-4, 1989.
McNamara, D.K., C.O. Arah, H.M. Hand, and M.F. Mecklenburg. "Fracture Toughness Testing of High-Performance Adhesives," in Proceedings of the 1988 ASME Winter Annual Meeting, MD Vol. 6, pp. 111-116, Chicago, November 1988.
Mecklenburg, M.M., J.A. Joyce, and P. Albrecht. "Separation of Energies in Elastic-Plastic Fracture," in Elastic-Plastic Fracture, Volume II: Non-Linear Fracture Mechanics, ASTM STP 995, eds. J.D. Landes, A. Saxena, and J.G. Merkle, pp.

<<<Page: 192>>>

594-612, American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, 1989.
Myers, Emlen. Artifacts of the Spanish Colonies of Florida and the Caribbean 1500-1800, Volume 1: Ceramics Glassware and Beads, by Kathleen Deagan, in American Anthropologist 90(3) (1988) :697.
“Ceramic Technologies of Medieval Northern Morocco," in Medieval Archaeology, ed. Charles Redman, pp. 75-95, Medieval and Renaissance Text Service, Binghamton N.Y.
Neff, Hector. “Origins of Plumbate Pottery Production," in Ancient Trade and Tribute: Economies of the Soconusco Region of Mesoamerica, ed. B. Voorhies, pp. 175-193, University of Utah Press, Provo, 1989.
“The Effect of Interregional Distribution on Plumbate Pottery Production," in Ancient Trade and Tribute: Economies of the Soconusco Region of Mesoamerica, ed. B. Voorhies, pp. 249-267, University of Utah Press, Provo, 1989.
Neff, H., R.L. Bishop, and G. Harbottle. "Stylistic and Chemical Variability in Plumbate Pottery: An Interim Report," in New Frontiers in the Archaeology of the Pacific Coast of Southern Mesoamerica, ed. F.J. Bove and Lynette Heller, pp. 209-220, Arizona State University Anthropological Research Papers #39, 1989.
Neff, H., R.L. Bishop, and E.V. Sayre. "More Observations on the Problem of Tempering in Compositional Studies of
Archaeological Ceramics," Journal of Archaeological Science, 16(1989) :57-69.
Neff, H., R.L. Bishop, ard: D.E. Arnold. “Reconstructing “Ceramic Production from Ceramic Compositional Data: An Example from Guatemala," Journal of Field Archaeology, 15(1988) :339-348.
Neff, H., R.L. Bishop, and F.J. Bove, "Compositional Patterning in Ceramics from Pacific Coastal and Highland Guatemala". Archaeomaterials 3(1989):97-109.
Olin, J.S., and M.J. Blackman. "Compositional Classification of Mexican Majolica Ceramics of the Spanish Colonial Period," in Archaeological Chemistry IV, ed. R. Allen, pp. 87-112, American Chemical Society, Washington DC, 1989.
Olin, J.S., “Laboratory Profile, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, Smithsonian Institution," Society for Archaeological Sciences Bulletin 12(3) (1989) :8-10.
Tsang, Jia-Sun, and Roland H. Cunningham. "Some Improvements in the Study of Cross-Sections," The American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented at the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, pp. 2021, Cincinnati OH, May 31-June 4, 1989.
Tuross, N. "Albumin Preservation in the Taima-taima Mastodon Skeleton," Applied Geochemistry 4(1989):225-259.
Tuross, N., A.K. Behrensmeyer, E.D. Eanes, L.W. Fisher, and P.E. Hare. “Molecular Preservation and Crystallographic Alterations in a Weathering Sequence of Wildebeest Bones," Applied Geochemistry 4(1989):261-270.
van der Reyden, D. "Technology and Conservation of a Nineteenth Century Globe," Paper Conservator 12(1988):21-30, Papers

<<<Page: 193>>>

from the 10th Anniversary Conference, New Directions in Paper Conservation, Oxford, April 14-18, 1986, Part 3.
van der Reyden, D., M. Mecklenburg, M. Baker, and M. Hamill. "Update on Current Research into Aqueous Light Bleaching at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory," in The Book and Paper Group Annual, Vol. 7, pp. 73-106, December 1988.
Vitale, Timothy. "Observations On the Theory, Use and Fabrication of the Fritted Glass Bead, Small Suction Disk Device," Paper Conservator 12(1988):47-63, Papers from the 10th Anniversary Conference, New Directions in Paper Conservation, Oxford, April 14-18, 1986, Part 3.
Vitale, Timothy, and Jane Sugarman. "Observations on the Drying of Paper and Their Applications to Treatment," American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Abstracts of Papers Presented at the Seventeenth Annual Meeting, p. 61, Cincinnati, May 31-June 4, 1989.
Winter, John, and Emile Joel. "'Lead White' in Japanese Paintings. II. Measurements of Lead Isotope Ratios," Kobunkazai no Kagaku 33(1988) :33-44.
Yener, K. Aslihan, Hadi Orzbal, Ergun Kaptan, A. Necip Pehlivan, and Martha Goodway. “Kestel: An Early Bronze Age Source of Tin Ore in the Taurus Mountains, Turkey," Science 244(1989) :200-203.
Commoner, Lucy and Milton Sonday. "’Purses, Pouches, Pockets,’ Curatorial and Conservation Considerations for the Exhibition." Textile Conservation Group Newsletter, Volume XI, No. 4 (March 1989).
Davidson, Gail. "Richard Nonas," Public Art. Brookville, NY: Hillwood Art Gallery, 1989.
Davidson, Gail and Elaine Evans Dee. Training the Hand and Eye, American
Drawings from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1989.
Dee, Elaine Evans. Design into Art, Drawings for Architecture and Ornament (contributor). Peter Fuhring, ed. London: Philip Wilson, 1989.
McFadden, David Revere. (Introduction.) Courts and Colonies: The William and
Mary Style in Holland, England and America, New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, distributed by University of Washington Press, 1988.
(Introduction.) Majolica. Marilyn Karmason and Joan Stack, authors. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1989.
(Introduction.) Robert Ebendorf Retrospective Exhibition, New Paltz: College Art Gallery, State University of New York, The College at New Paltz, 1989.
Treasures for the Table: Silver from the Chrysler Museum (essays). New York: Hudson Hills Press, in association with the American Federation of the Arts, 1989.

<<<Page: 194>>>

L'Art de Vivre: Decorative Arts _ and Design in France 1789-1989 (introdution and editorial; with other authors). New York/Paris: Vendome
Press/Flammarion, 1989.
. "L'Art de Vivre" (introduction), special supplement to Connaissance des Arts, 1989.
"L’Art de Vivre" special supplement guide to exhibition, Vogue Decoration, International Edition, No. 19, Spring 1989.
"Past and Present: Recent Acquisitions in Ceramics at CooperHewitt Museum, the Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of Design," Ars Ceramica 5, (1988), pp.44-49.
Moss, Gillian. "Textiles of the American Arts and Crafts Movement," William Morris and The Arts and Crafts Movement, Linda Parry. London: Bestseller Publications Studio Editions, 1989.
Pilgrim, Dianne H. (Foreword.) L'Art de Vivre: Decorative Arts and Design in France 1789-1989. New York/Paris: Vendome Press/Flammarion, 1989.
Shinn, Deborah. Courts and Colonies: The William and Mary Style in Holland England and America (contributions, with other authors). New York:
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, distributed by University of Washington Press, 1988.
Sonday, Milton and Lucy Maitland. "The Asian Embroidery Technique: Detached Looping, Orientations (August 1989), pp. 54-61.
Lawrence, Sidney. "Henry Moore in America's Heartland." Landscape Architecture 79, no. 3 (April 1989):78-81. Rifkin, Ned. "Robert Moskowitz." Exhibition Catalog.
Washington, D.C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; and New York: Thames and Hudson. June 1989. Weil, Stephen E. "Too Much Art?," ARTnews 88, no. 8 (October 1989):232. . "Deaccessioning in American Museums: I," Apollo 130, no. 330 (New Series) (August 1989):77-80. . "Who Owns the Nataraja?," ARTnews 88, no. 5 (May 1989):188. "The Ongoing Pursuit of Professional Status," Museum News 67, no. 2 (November/December 1988) :30-34. . "The Proper Business of the Museum: Ideas or Things, Muse 7,,-no... 1) (Spring/April 1989). 238=38.. "In Pursuit of a Profession: The Status of
Museum Work in America," Museum Management Newsletter 2, no. i (Spring 19:38): 2=5:,

<<<Page: 195>>>

Office of the Deputy Director
lopez, D. S., The National Air and Space Museum: A Visit in Pictures (Washington, DIG: Smithsonian Institartion Press, 1989).
Department of Aeronautics
Davies, R.E.G., "Antarctica: El Continente Perdido," Revista Aerea 102(4/5). , "The World’s Southermmost Airline (Aerovias DAP)," Airliners 2(2) (Summer 1989).
, "Chilean Aviation in the Antarctic," Exxon Air World 41(1) (1989).
, "Knight to QB4," Airliners 1(3) (Fall 1988).
, “At the Sound of the Gong," Airliners 2(1) (Spring 1989).
___, “The Junkers 52/3m," Skyways (April 1989).
Mikesh, R.C. , Elying Dragons: The South Vietnamese Air Force (London: Osprey Publ. Ltd., 1988) .
, "Grounded — With Good Cause," Air & Space/Smithsonian 4(1) (1989). , "The Unexpected FAC Mission," Chapter 18 in P.D. Chinnery, Life on the Line oer
Oakes, C.M., "Women Airforce Service Pilots, Revista Aerea 104 (1) (1988).
Pisano, D.A. "The Age of Streamlining," Air & Space/Smithsonian (Feb/Mar 1989) 186-96.
, "When America Became ’Air Conditioned’,™" FAA World (June 1989).
Department of Space History
Ceruzzi, P. "Electronics Technology and Computer Science: A Coevolution," Annals of the History of Computing 10(4), 1989.
Collins, M.J., "Preserving Space History," Air & Space Magazine 3(4), 6, (1988).
DeVorkin, D.H., Race to the Stratosphere: Manned Scientific Ballooning in America (New York: Springer Verlag). , "Blast from the Past," Air & Space/Smithsonian 3 (Aug/Sep 1988): 76-84. , "Defending a Dream: The Abbot Years," Bulletin of the American AstronomiCal Society 20 (1988): 949.
, “Henry Norris Russell," Scientific American (May 1989): 126-133.
, "Men on the Moon,""Comminicating Science," and "Exploration of Space," three invited chapter introductions for 0. Gingerich, ed., Album of Science IV: 20th Century Physical Science (New York: Scribners, 1989): 219, 229,
271:
Elliott, D.W., "Apollo 11 Spaceflight," Book of Days, 1989/1990 (Ann Arbor: Pierian Press, 1989).
Herken, G. "The Age of Anxiety," review of John Newhouse’s War _in the Nuclear Age, Washington Post "Book World," Jan. 1, 1989.
"He Wrote the Book on Arms Control," review of Strobe Talbott’s The
Master of the Game, New York Newsday "Books," Nov. 11, 1988.

<<<Page: 196>>>

, “Learning to Live with the Bomb," review of McGeorge Bundy’s Danger amd Survival, New York Newsday "Books," Jan. 15, 1989.
lewis, C.S., co-editor, Air and ce History: An Annotated Bibli York: Garland, 1988).
Needell, A.A., Introduction to the Reprinting of Max Planck’s Vorlesungen Ueber die Theorie der Waermestrahlung (1906) and the Morton Masius translation of the Second Edition (1913), Lectures on the Theory of Heat Radiation (1914) (New York: AIP/Tomash, 1989).
Smith, R.W., "The Selling of Space Astronamy," Astronomy (Jan. 1989): 8. , Review of History of the Royal Astronomical Society, Vol. 2. 1920-1980 in British Society for the History of Science 22 (1988) :88-89. , Review of Quasars, Redshifts and Controversies in American Scientist 77 (1989) :126.
Smith, R.W., and R. Baum, "Neptune’s Forgotten Ring," Sky & Telescope 77(1989) :6 10.
Tatarewicz, J.N., Film review of "Made in Space: U.S. Space Station" in Science Books and Films 24/1 (Sept-Oct 1988) :59. , Review of M.A. James, Elites in Conflict: The Antebellum Clash over the Dudley Observatory in Science, Technology & Human Values 13(1&2) (Sept/Oct 1988) :210-214. , Review of R. Schick and J. Van Haften, The View from Space: American Astronaut Photography, 1962-1972 in Science Books and Films 24/3 (Nov/Dec 1988) :102.
Winter, F., "Bringing Up Betsy," Air & Space/Smithsonian (Dec. 1988/Jan. 1989) :76-84.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
Craddock, R. A. amd Zimbelman, J. R., "Normal Faulting Associated with the Daedalia Impact Basin, Mars," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Tectonic Features on Mars, pp. 3-5 (Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Craddock, R. A. and Maxwell, T. A., "Timing of Resurfacing Events in the Amenthes and Tyrrhena Cratered Highlands of Mars," Lunar and Planetary Science XX, pp. 191-192 (Houston: lLiumar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Dollfus, A., Deschamps, M. amd Zimbelman, J. R., "Gramulometry of the Martian Surface by Photopolarimetry " Lumar and Planetary Science XX, Pp. 250-251 (Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Forsythe, R. D. and Zimbelman, J. R., "Is the Gordii Dorsum Escarpment on Mars an Exhumed Transcurrent Fault?", Nature 336 (1988) :143-146.
Forsythe, R. D. and Zimbelman, J. R., "The Transcurrent Fault Hypothesis for Mars’ Gordii Dorsum Escarpment," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Tectonic Features on Mars, pp. 6-8 (Houston: Lumar amd Planetary Institute, 1989).
Haynes, C. V. and Maxwell, T. A., "Geoarchaeology of Bagnold’s Camp 18, 1930, amd Other Late Historic Sites on the Great Selima Sand Sheet,. Eastern Sahara," Abstracts 28th International Geological Congress, pp. 2-43 (Washington, D.C., 1989).
Jacobberger, P. A., "Seasonal Color Changes in the Azaouad Dunefield

<<<Page: 197>>>

near Tambouctou, Mali," Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 20 (1988) :148.
Jacobberger, P. A., Maxwell, T. A.,amd Hooper, D. M., "Spectral and Morphologic Variations Along the Abu Muharik Dume System (Western Desert of Egypt) ,"" Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 20 (1988) :36
Jacobberger, P. A., "Reflectance Characteristics and Surface Processes in Stabilized Dine Enviromments." In Remote Sensing of Environment 27(1989) :245-253.
, (Book Review] Fluvial Processes in Dryland Rivers, William L. Graf, in
Geology 17 (1989) :581-582.
, (Abstract] "Morphology and Color Variations Along the Abu Muharik Dune
System (Western Desert of Egypt) ," Proceedings of the Dumes ’89 Interna-
tional Conference (Namibia: 1989).
, "Mapping Abandoned Channels of the Niger River Using
Filtered Remotely-sensed Image Data," Proceedings of the Second Interna-
tional Conference on Geomorphology and Geoecology (Frankfurt: 1989). Maxwell, T. A., "Structural Modification Along the Cratered Terrain
, Eastern Hemisphere of Mars," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop:
Early Tectonic amd Volcanic Evolution of Mars, pp. 37-38. (Houston: Lumar
and Planetary Institute, 1988).
Maxwell, T. A. amd Haynes, C. V., "Large-scale, Low Amplitude Bedforms (Chevrons) in the Selima Sand Sheet, Egypt," Science 243 (1989) :1179-1182.
Maxwell, T. A. and Craddock, R. A., "Mechanisms of Resurfacing in the Amenthes and Tyrrhena Cratered Highlands of Mars," Lunar and Planetary Science XX, pp. 646-647 (Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Maxwell, T. A., "Dune Movement and Sand Transport in the Bahariya Depression, Western Egypt," Remote Sensing and Resource Exploration, pp 163-192 (Singapore: International Centre for Theoretical Physics, 1989).
"Orbital Observations of Dune Movement and Temporal Changes in Southwestern Egypt," Abstracts 28th International Geological Congress, Pe. 2-391 (Washington, D.C., 1989). . "Origin of Planetary Wrinkle Ridges An Overview," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Tectonic Features on Mars, pp. 15-17 (Houston: Lumar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
McBride, K., J. R. Zimbelman and Clifford, S. M., "Potential In dicators of Pyroclastic Activity Near Elysium Mons, Mars," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Early Tectonic and Volcanic Evolution of Mars, pp. 39-41 (Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1988).
McBride, K., and Zimbelman, J. R., "Evidence of Pyroclastic Activity Near Elysium Mons, Mars," Limar and Planetary Science XX, p. 651 (Houston: lamar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Mouginis-Mark, P. J., Wilson, L. and Zimbelman, J. R., "Polygenic Eruptions om Alba Patera, Mars," Bulletin of Volcanology 50 (1988) :361-379.
Watters, T. R. and Tuttle, M. J., "Evidence of a Shear System Associated with the Deformed Basalts of the Columbia Plateau: Implications of the Ridged Plains Units on Mars," Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs 20 (1988) :A148.
Watters, T. R., "Wrinkle Ridge Assemblages on the Terrestrial Planets," Journal of Geophysical Research 93 (1988) :10236-10254.
Watters, T. R. and Chadwick, D. J., "Crosscutting Periodically Spaced First-order Ridges in the Ridged Plains of Hesperia Plamm: Another Case for a Buckling Model," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Tectonic Features on Mars, pp. 42-44 (Houston: Lumar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Watters, T. R. and Tuttle, M. J., "Strike-slip Faulting Associated
—_—_/

<<<Page: 198>>>

with the Folded Columbia River Basalts: Implications for the Deformed Ridged Plains of Mars," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Tectonic Features on Mars, pp. 45-47 (Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1989). Watters, T. R., "Periodically Spaced Wrinkle Ridges in Ridged Plains Units on Mars," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Early Tectonic amd Volcanic Evolution of Mars, pp. 63-65 (Houston: Lumar and Planetary Institute, 1988). , (Abstract] "Periodically Spaced Wrinkle Ridges on the Tharsis Plateau of Mars," Fourth International Conference on Mars, Program and Abstracts, pp. 206-207 (Tucson, 1989).
Wells, G. L. and Zimbelman, J. R., "Extra-Terrestrial Arid Suface Processes," Arid Zone Geomorphology, ed. D. Thomas (Belhaven Press, London, 1989). Williams, S. H. and Zimbelman, J. R., "Origin of Debris Flow Material: Ismenius Lacus, Mars," Iumar and Planetary Science XX, pp. 1209-1210
(Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1988). Zimbelman, J. R., "Noachin Faulting in the Memnonia Region of Mars," Abstracts for the MEVIV-LPI Workshop: Early Tectonic and Volcanic Evolution of Mars, pp. 72-74 (Houston: Limar and Planetary Institute, 1988). , (Abstract) "Fault Control of Volatile Transport into Mangala Valles, Mars," Geological Society of America Abstracts With Programs 20 (1988) :Al1l 47-A148. , "Erosional Outliers of Dust Along the Southern Margin of the Tharsis Region of Mars," Transactions American Geophysical Union 69 (1988) :1286. , "Geologic Mapping of Southern Mangala Valles, Mars," Lumar and Planetary Science XX, pp. 1239-1240 (Houston: Lumar and Planetary Institute, 1989).  "Planetology and Meteoritics," Geotimes 34(2) (1989) :72-73.  "Tectonic Influences aon the Development of Mangala Valles,
——— /
———— /
Mars," Transactions of American ical Union 70 (1989) :388. , "Planetary Science Progress Reviewed," Geotimes 34(6) (1989) :1 =.
. "Erosional Outliers of Dust Along the Southern Margin of the Tharsis Region, Mars," Lumar and Planetary Science XX, pp. 1237-1238 (Houston: Lumar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Zimbelman, J. R., Clifford, S. M. amd Williams, S. H., "Concentric Crater Fill on Mars: An Aeolian Alternative to Ice-rich Mass Wasting," ings Lumar and Planetary Science Conference XIX, pp. 397-407 (Cambridge University Press: London, 1989).
Zimbelman, J. R. and McBride, K. M., "A Possible Pyroclastic Deposit Near Elysium Mons, Mars," Lunar and Planetary Science XX, pp. 1243-1244 (Houston: Lumar and Planetary Institute, 1989).
Zimbelman, J. R. and Fink, J. H., "Estimates of Rheologic Properties for Flows on the Martian Volcano Olympus Mons," Lumar and Planetary Science XX, pp. 1241-1242 (Houston: Lumar amd Planetary Institute, 1989).
Laboratory for Astrophysics
Goldstein, J., "Direct Measurements of Lower Thermospheric Circulation on Venus Using Doppler-Limited Infrared Spectroscopy," with M. Mumma, D. Zipoy, T. Kostiuk, D. Deming, and F. Expenak, Amer. Astron. Soc. Bull. 20 (1988): 833.
Smith, H., "L1048: Dramatic Outflow from IRAS 21335+5039," with J. Fischer, D.

<<<Page: 199>>>

Mozurkewich and P. Schwartz, Amer. Astron. Soc. Bull. 20 (1989) :1093. , “Infrared Imaging Spectroscopy of Starburst and Seyfert Galaxies," with J. Fischer, in Proceedings of the 22nd Eslab Symposium on Infrared Spectro-
scopy _in Astronomy (1989). "Far Infrared Absorption Properties of Metallic Meshes,"
with G.R. Davis, P.A.R. Ade, and J. Fischer, in Proceedings of the Conference on Infrared Physics 4 (Zurich, 1989).
Barley, Nigel. Foreheads of the Dead: An Anthropological View of Kalabari
Ancestral Screens. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the National Museum of African Art, 1988.
Luskey, Judith, and Paula Richardson Fleming, Assistant Director, National Anthropological Archives. The North American Indians in Early Photographs. North American Second Edition (fifth printing), New York: Barnes and Noble; Oxford: Oxford University Press, Phaidon (second printing); Munich: Verlag C.H. Beck (second printing), 1989.
National Museum of African Art. Echoes of the Kalabari: Sculpture by Sokari Douglas Camp. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1988.
Ravenhill, Philip. "Gold of Africa." Archaeology. May/June, 1989.
, and Roslyn A. Walker. Kalabari Ancestral Screens: Levels of Meaning . Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1988.
Sieber, Roy. Contribution in The Traditional Artist in African Societies (new printing). Ed. W. d'Azeredo. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1989.
, Co-editor. Traditional Arts in Africa Series. The Mande Blacksmiths: Knowledge, Power, and Art in West Africa by Patrick McNaughton. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1989.

<<<Page: 200>>>

Blair, Karen J. The History of Women's Voluntary Associations in America: A Guide to Sources. Boston: G. K. Hall, 1988.
Boime, Albert. Vincent van Gogh: Die Sternenacht: Die Geschichte des Stoffes und der Stoff der Geschicht. Frankfurt am Main: Fisher Taschenbuch Verlag, 1989.
"Blacks in Shark-Infested Water: Visual Encodings of Racism in Copley and Homer.” Smithsonian Studies in American Art 3, no. l (Winter 1989): 18-47.
“The Chocolate Venus, Tainted Pork, Wine Blight, and the Tariff: Franco-American Stew at the Fair.” In Paris 1889: American Artists at the Universal Exposition. New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1989.
Broun, Elizabeth. Albert Pinkham Ryder. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.
Foresta, Merry. Introduction for The Photography of Invention. Cambridge: MIT Press, 1989.
Malarcher, Patricia. "Gatherings: Re Criticism.” New Work, no. 38 (Summer 1989).
"Clay Views: Insiders' Perspectives.” In CRITS. Cullowhee, N.C.: Western Carolina University, 1989.
“Of One Cloth: Textiles and the Liturgical Arts." Surface Design Journal 13. ):no.:3-CSpring.1989)..
“Basketry Considerations,” In Basketry Interpretations. Toronto, Ontario: The Museum of Textiles, 1989.
"Quilting: Present Progressive.” In Dreamscapes. Clinton, N.J.: Hunterdon Art Center, 1988.
Moser, Joann. “The Ideal and the Practical: Some Thoughts on Recent Catalogues Raisonnes.” The Tamarind Papers 11 (Fall 1989): 62-68
» "“Novija Americka Grafika"” (New American Graphics), catalogue essay for exhibition sponsored by the United States Information Service. American Embassy, Belgrade: April 1989.
Norelli, Martina Roudabush. East Meets West: Chen Chi Watercolors. Columbus, Ga.: The Columbus Museum of Art, 1989.
"The Watercolors of Antoine-Louis Barye.” In Lilien F. Robinson and Edward J. Nygren, Antoine-Louis Barye: The Corcoran Collection. Washington, D.C.: Corcoran Gallery of Art, 1988.
Panzer, Nora. "Mythology and the Art of Paul Manship.” Brochure, 1989.
"A Guide for Teachers: The Patricia and Phillip Frost Collection: American Abstraction 1930-1945." Brochure, 1989.
Pohl, Frances K. Ben Shahn: New Deal Artist in a Cold War Climate, 1947-1954. Austin: University of Texas, 1989.
. Introduction to Histoire d' -E. Catalogue of an Exhibition
by the Italian Artist, Mirella Bentivoglio. London: Writer's Forun, 1988.
"Ben Shahn and Fortune Magazine: Representations of Labor in 1946." Labor's Heritage 1 (January 1989).
“Report from Palermo: International Conference on Women and Writing.” Women's Studies International Forum 12, no. 1 (January 1989).
Review of Human Rights/Human Wrongs: Art and Social Change, edited by Robert Hobbs and Frederick Woodward. Archives of American Art Journal 28, no. 1 (1988).

<<<Page: 201>>>

Rand, Harry. Paul Manship. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.
. "“Friedensreich Hundertwasser in Japan,” (bilingual text) Tokyo Metropolitan Teien Art Museum, Iwaki City Museum of Art. Kuashiki, Japan: 1989.
“Users Used and Abused, "Visual Resources 5, no. 2 (1989). . "Making the Calender.” In Masterworks of American Art from the Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute. New York: Abrams, Inc., 1989. . “Interview.” In Documents 1, no. 1 (summer 1989). Roark, Elisabeth L. “Courbet's Joueurs de Dames and “La vie de Boheme.” Gazette des Beaux-Arts 112 (December 1988). Zalesch, Saul E. and Jill M. Hobgood. From Havana to Wall Street: Popular Sheet Music In America, 1898-1929. Newark, Del.: University of Delaware, 1988.

<<<Page: 202>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY Office of the Director
Kennedy, Roger G. Orders from France: The Americans and the French in a Revolutionary World. New York: Knopt,
Office of Academic Programs
Kulik, Gary. "Comment: The Hero in Industrial History" in The Popular Perception of Industrial History, edited by Robert Wetble and Francis alsh. LH and the Museum of American Textile History, 1989.
. "Designing the Past: History Museum Exhibitions from Peale to the Present" in History Museums in the United States: A Critical Assessment, edited by Warren Leon and Roy Rozensweig. Champaign: University of Illinois Press, 1989.
Department of the History of Science and Technology
Davis, Audrey B, with Richard Glenner, D.D.S. and Gordon Dammann. "The Illinois Dentist in Defence of His Country." Illinois State Dental Journal (February 1989): 10-14.
. “Anesthetist and Anesthesiologist: Technology in the Social Context of a Medical and Nursing Speciality." Transactions and Studies of the College of Physicians of PhiladeTphia IT (June 1989).
. “Medical Museums in Paris.” Medical eotiector!s
Association Newsletter (Fall 1989).
Ezell, Edward c. my Arms Today, 2nd Edition, Stackpole Books, Harrisburg, ass
Green, Rayna. "Kill the Indian and Save the Man: Indian Education in the United States" in Mary Lou Hultgren and Paulette Fairbanks Molin To Lead and to serve: American Indian Education at Hampton Institute _ : xhibition Catalog. arlottesville, Va.: Virginia Foundation TOF the Humanities, 1989, 9-14. . "Culture and Gender in Indian America," Sojourner 15, no. 1 (September 1989): 20-22. Johnston, Paul F. "Knowledge: The Real Treasure." Sea History 51 (Autumn 1989): 6-7. "Between the Devil and The Dark Blue Sea: Archaeology and
the Council of American Maritime Museums" in Underwater Archaeology Proceedings from the Society for Historical Archaeology Conference, edited by J. Barto Arnold IIT. Pleasant Hill, Calif.: Society for Historical Archaeology, 1989, 149-150.
. "Underwater Archaeology in the United States" in The Baltic Sea: A Cultural Transmitter. Kotka: Anson Oy, 1988, Publication Number 10, Series of the Provincial Museum of Kymenlaakso, 99-117.
. "The End of the Age of Sail: Merchant Shipping in the Nineteenth Century," in Ships and Shipwrecks of the Americas, edited by George F. Bass. London: Thames and Hudson, 1988.

<<<Page: 203>>>

Johnston, Paul F., and Peter J. Fetchko. "The Peabody Museum of Salem" in Maritime America, edited by Peter Neil]. New York: Harry Abrams and Balsam Press, 1988.
Jones, Lu Ann. "Women on the Land" in The Encyclopedia of Southern Culture. Chapel Hill, N.C.: University of North Carolina Press, 1989.
Jones, Lu Ann, and Nancy Grey Osterud. "Breaking New Ground: Oral History and Agricultural History." Journal of American History (September 1989).
Kondratas, Ramunas A. "Public Health" in Academic American Encyclopedia, Vol. 15. Danbury, Conn.: Grolier Inc., 1988, 608-609.
"The Brunonian Influence on the Medical Thought and Practice of JOS Seph Frank." Medical History, Supplement no. 8 (1988): 75-88. Liebhold, Peter. "The Development of High-speed Tool Steel." Cutting Tool
Engineering (June 1989). "The Bicycle and the Development of High Speed Grinding."
Cuttin ig Tool Engineering (August 1989).
"Solomon Nunes Carvalho, Exploration Photographer," in SoTomon Nunes Carvalho exhibition catalog. Jewish Historical Society Of Baltimore: Baltimore, Md., 1989.
Lubar, Steven. "The Power of the Niagara: Scientific, Technological, and Cultural Contexts of an Engineering Decision." Technology and Society (Spring 1989).
Melosh, Barbara. "Speaking of Women: Museums' Representation of Women's History" in History Museums and Historic Sites in the United States, edited by Warren Leon and Roy Rosenweig. Champaign, ITl.: University of Illinois Press, 1989.
""Not Merely a Profession.
Spring "1989,
. "Nursing Conflicts." Chronicle of Higher Education, November 2,1988, B2 (excerpt from Speech).
. Review of Able-bodied Womanhood by Martha Verbrugge. Isis 80: T:301 (1989): 108-T09S.
Molella, Arthur P. cere the History of Invention," reprinted in Bulletin of Science, Technology, & Society 8, no. 3 (1988): 279-86. e First Generation: Usher, umford, and Giedion," in In
Contex t, History and the History of Technology, Essays in Honor on... MeTvin Kranzber , edited by Stephen H. Cutcliffe and Robert C. Post. VoT. | of Research in Technology Studies. Bethlehem, Pa.: Lehigh University Press, 1988.
. “America's Golden Age," an interview with Thomas P. Hughes.
American Heritage of Invention and Technology 5 (Spring/Summer 1989):
"Technology and Society: The Mechanical or the Organic
Ideal?" in Proceedings of the Symposium: Technology--For the Benefit of Society? 1989, 20-28.
Reingold, Nathan "Physics and Engineering in the United States, 1945-1965, a Study of Pride and Prejudice," The Michelson Era in American Science, 1870-1970 by S. Goldberg and R. Stuewer. New York, 1988.
Stephens Carlene. "The Impact of the Telegraph on Public Time in the
United States, 1844-1893." IEEE Technology & Society Magazine 8 (March 1989): 4-10.
American Behavioral Scientist

<<<Page: 204>>>

"The Most Reliable Time: William Bond, the New England ~ Railroads, and Time Awareness in 19th-Century America." Technology 4 Culture 30° (January 1989): 1-21. . “Partners in Time: William Bond & Son of Boston and the Harvard College Observatory." Harvard Library Bulletin 35: 351-384. Stine, Jeffrey K. "John Lucian Savage,” in Dictionary of American
Biography, supplement eight. New York: 1988, 5/2-73. | Warner, Deborah. “Commodities for the Classroom: Apparatus for Science and Education in Antebellum America," Annals of Science 45 (1988): 387-97.
White, John H., Jr. "William d'Alton "Mann," Tn The Encyclopedia of American
Business History and Biography: Railroads in the Nineteenth Century. Facts on File, 1988, 244-45,
"George Mortimer Pullman," in The Encyclopedia of American
Business History and Biography: Railroads in the Nineteenth Century,
. "Webster Wagner," in The Encyclopedia of American Business History and Biography: Railroads in the Nineteenth Century, 423-24.
. “George Westinghouse,” in The Encyclopedia of American Business History and Biography: Railroads in the Nineteenth Century,
"Theodore Tuttle Woodruff," in The Encyclopedia of American
Business History and Biography: Railroads in the Nineteenth Century,
. Introduction to Vol. I of A Century of Pullman Cars by Ralph Barger. Greenberg Publishing Co., 1988 Withuhn, William L. "Salzburgers," in Dictionary of Afro-American Slavery, edited by Randall M., Miller and John D. tthe westport, Ct.: Greenwood Press, 1988. . Introduction to Focus on Rails by John Gruber. Mid-Continent Historical Society, 1989.
Worthington, William: "Early Risers." American Heritage of Invention & Technology 4, no. 3 (Winter 1989): -44, . “What Is this Man Up To." American Heritage of Invention 4
Technology 5, no. 1 (Spring 1989): 46Department of Social] and Cultural History
Adrosko, Rita J. "Textile Machinery Patents," in Catalogue of the Patent Model Exhibit in Japan. 1989.
Bird, William L., Jr. "A Spate of New Toys Invades America's Living Rooms," Smithsonian Magazine 20 (June 1989): 82-85.
Crew, Spencer, and James Horton. "Afro-Americans and Museums," in History Museums in the United States.
Crouch, Tom D. The Bishop's Boys: A Life of Wilbur and Orville Wright. New York: W.W. Norton and Company, : . A Dream of Wings: Americans and the Airplane, 1875-1905. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.
. “The First Season at Kitty Hawk." American Heritage (April 1988).
"On Wings and Wheels," in Inventors and Discoverers: Changin Our World. Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society, 1988.

<<<Page: 205>>>

. "“Greenhorns," in The American Image. Washington, D.C.:
——_ Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989. Division of Musical History, Recordings:
Beethoven Symphonies 1 and 3 deutsche harmonia mundi.
Beethoven Op. 18, Smithson Quartet deutsche harmonia mundi.
Beethoven Op. 70 Trios Smithsonian Collection of Recordings.
Corelli Op. 3 Smithsonian Collection of Recordings.
Dvorak Piano Trio, Opus 90, Smithsonian Collection of Recordings.
Gottschalk Piano Music, Smithsonian Collection of Recordings.
Hayden Op. 54 Quartets deutsch harmonia mundi.
Hayden Op. 77 Quartets EMI.
Hayden Op. 103 Quartets EMI.
Smetana Piano Trio, Opus 15, Smithsonian Collection of Recordings. Hasse, John Edward. “Rudi Blesh," "Hoagy Carmichael," "Knocky Parker,"
"J. Russel Robinson," "Wally Rose," and "Bob Scobey," in The New Grove
Dictionary of Jazz, edited by Barry Kernfeld. London: MacmillanPress
[Ltd.; New York: Grove's Dictionaries of Music, 1988.
The Classic Hoagy Carmichael, produced and annotated by the author. evised edition. ondon: C Records, 1988. Set of recordings (4 LPs, 3 cassettes, or 3 CDs) and book.
"All-American Ragtime." WETA Magazine (July 1989): 6-8.
. "Duke Ellington and New OrTteans™ in Duke Ellington and New Orleans, edited by Caroline Richmond. Ascona, Switzerland: Festa New Orleans Music Productions, 1989, 5-7.
. "The Duke Ellington Collection," in Duke Ellington and New Orleans, edited by Caroline Richmond. Ascona, Switzerland: Festa New Orleans Music Productions, 1989, 7-9.
. "Sidney Bechet," in The Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, edited by Charles Reagan Wilson and William Ferris. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1989.
. "Smithsonian Will Preserve and Perpetuate Duke Ellington's Legacy." Jazz Educator's Journal (Fall 1989): 24-27.
Janssen, Barbara. Technology in Miniature, American Textile Patent Models 1819-1840. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Press, 1988.
Kidwell, Claudia, and Valerie Steele, eds. Men and Women: Dressing the Part. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
McGovern, Charles. "Media and Culture and History." Reviews in American History (December 1988).
. "Getting the Goods: Consumption, Material Culture and History" The Maryland Historian.
Mayo, Edith P. “Collecting the Twentieth Century." History News 44 (May-June 1989): 30-32.
Melder, Keith. "Slaves and Freedmen." The Wilson Quarterly 13 (January 1989).
Reagon, Bernice, ed. Outreach Theory and Practice.
. “Lining Hymn.” Black Music Research Journal: 77-83.
Roth, Rodris. “Domestic Life: Furniture,” in the Catalog of the Patent Model Exhibit in Japan. 1989.
Rubenstein, Harry R. "Symbols and Images of American Labor: Badges of Pride." Labor's Heritage 1 (April 1989): 36-51.

<<<Page: 206>>>

"Symbols and Images of American Labor: Dinner Pails and Hard
Hats.” Labor's Heritage (July 1989).
Serio, Anne Marie. “Lighting in 19th-Century America," in Catalog of the Patent Model Exhibit in Japan. 1989.
Smith, Barbara Clark. Review of "We the People," a major permanent exhibition at the Chicago Historical Society. American Historical Review 93, no. 3 (June 1989).
Contributing scholars providing a collection of documents for In Their Own Words: Creators Great and Small, edited by Constance M. McGovern. Boston: the New England Foundation for the Humanities, 1988.
Smith, Barbara Clark, and Kathy Peiss. Men and Women: A History of Costume, Gender, and Power. Washington, D.C.: National Museum o erican
1story, .
Sturm, Gary. Contribution to Shapes of the Baroque: Historical Development of Bowed Stringed Instruments by William Monical. Philadelphia: American Federation of Violin and Bow Makers, 1989.
Wright, Helena E. "Selling an Image: Views of Lowell 1825-1876," in The
Popular Perception of Industrial History. Lanham, Md: AASLH Library, University Press of America, 1989.
National Numismatic Collection
Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira E. "Coin or Medal? Politics and Numismatics in Walachia in the Early Seventeenth Century," in Festskrift till Lars 0. Lagerqvist (Festschrift to Lars 0. Lagerqvist). Stockholm: Svenska Numismatiska Foreningen, 1989, 75-85.
. Rome at War as Seen Through Coins. Washington, D.C.: National Numismatic Collection, 1989.
Doty, R. G. "Alabama currency in Smithsonian holdings," Coin World (March 22, 1989): 42, 46, 48.
. "Cent," "Denarius," "Dime," "Dollar," "Drachma," "Legal Tender," "Mint," "Pine-Tree Shilling," "Shekel," "Yen," and "Yuan," in World Book Encyclopedia, 1989.
. “coins, in Vol. 1 of International Encyclopedia of Communications. New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989,
. “Pittsburgh enriches paper money history." Coin World (August  spaeeiged)s: 52, 585,64. 68, ao
. "Private notes common issue in Arkansas." Coin World (April By O69 jit. 24 36.
. Review of Dictionary of Coin Names by Adrian Room, in Numismatic Chronicle 148 London (1988): 215-20.
. "Smithsonian note collection 'splendid'." Coin World (March 15, 1989): 34.

<<<Page: 207>>>

Review of Political and Commemorative Pieces Simulating
Tradesmen's Tokens, 1//0-180e by R. C. Bell, in Numismatic Chronicle
ondon Gillilland, Cory. "John Coon: un enigma." Medaglia 17, no. 24 (1989): 155-68"A Medal from the Alma Mater," in Festskrift till Lars 0. Lagerqvist. Stockholm: Svenska Numi smatiska Foreningen, 1989, 103-10. Sa STU
~ New Gold Denominations Debut in 1849." Coin World (April 19, a= | ROOD NS. Ieee Sas Hebert, Raymond. "The Ayat al Kursi and the Asma al-Husna on a Salghurid amulet." Hamdard Islamicus 11, no. 3 (Autumn 1988): 89-99.
. "Bar Hebraeus on Money." Numismatics International 24, no. 8 (August 1989): 189-91.
. "Barker on money troubles in Ottoman Syria and Egypt." Numismatics International 24, no. 6 (June 1989): 147.
; evotional Medal from Khotan." Numismatics International 22, no. 10 (October 1988): 233-37.
. "A Donation of Dies." Numismatics International 23, no. 5 (May 1989): 117-19.
"A Donation of Dies II." Numismatics International 23, no. 1 (January 1989): 18-20.
. "A Donation of Dies III." Numismatics International 23, no. 2 (February 1989): 44-45.
. "A Donation of Dies IV." Numismatics International 23, no. 3 (March 1989): 63-64.
. "A Donation of Dies V. (April 1989): 94-95,
. '"Fynes Moryson on the Ottoman monies of 1617," in A Festschrift Presented to Ibrahim Artuk on the Occasion of the 20th Anniversary of the Turkish Numismatic Society. Istanbul: Turkish Numismatic Society, 1988, 147-52.
.1. “Moorcroft "'s and Trebeck's numismatic comments of 1819-1825." Numismatics International 24, no. 6 (June 1989): 142.
. "Pirate money in Dutch New York." Numismatics International 24, no. 6 (June 1989): 148.
. 'Pre-Nineteenth Century Acadian Given Names." The Genealogist 15, no. 1 (Winter 1989): 17-18.
"P'tit Francois Arsenault of Cocagne." The Genealogist 14, no. 4, issue no. 38 (Fall 1988): 173-80.
Review of Catalogue of the Provincial Coin Cabinet Assam by A. W. Botham. Numismatics Internationa <tENONs ctober Sn 25h
Review of Les Collections monetaires: VIII. Paleo-monnaies africaines by Josette Rivallain in collaboration wit 2SFeliz Numismatics International 22, no. 11 (November 1988): 275.
eview of Mittelaltermunzen Ausgewahlte Schriften, 1881-1928 by Emil Bahrfeldt. umismatics Internationa 5. NO! ctober 1988): 247-48.
Numismatics International 23, no. 4
. Review of Professor Ajay Mitra Shastri Felicitation Volume, edited by Dr. S. K. att. umismatics Internationa (November 1988): 274-75.

<<<Page: 208>>>

Review of Russkie efeimki issledovanie i katalog by I. C. Spasski. Numismatics International 23, no. 2 (February 1989): 50-51. Review Of Ihe History of Russian Coins (1988), The Millennium
Of First Russian Coins (1988), and Russian History and Culture of the TOth-20th Centuries in Coins and Medals (1988). Numismatics International 23, no. 3 (March 1989): /1-72.
Review, "Three New Russian-language Numismatic Books." Numismatics International 23, no. 5 (May 1989): 121-22.
3 usso-Chinese Gin-Ricksha chit." Journal of the Russian Numismatic Society no. 32 (Autumn 1988): 51.
~ Saints in Metal." Numismatics International 22, no. 12, (December 1988): 281-85.
. "A Samanid Hoard of Nuh I bin Nasr." Numismatics International 23, no. 5 (May 1989): 105-10.
F an Seriffe and its monies," by Frere Nitouche (pseudonym). Numismatics International 24, no. 7 (July 1989): 160-61. 5 wo rare silver fractional dirhems." Oriental Numismatic
Society (July-Aug. 1988). ~ "Valentin on the early 18th-century coinage of Ceylon." Numismatics International 24, no. 7 (July 1989): 165. . “Widal On al-HasSa and its coins." Numismatics International 24, no. 8 (August 1989): 192-93. "Windows on Eternity."
Sa nears 2079283.
National Philatelic Collection
The Numismatist 101, no. 12 (December
Bruns, James H. “Alternative Designs for the 1963 6-cent Precancelled Air Mail Postal Card." Postal Stationery 31, no. 1 (January-February 1989): 3-9
"Benjamin Lipsner and the Air Mail." Stamps 227, no. 9 (May ZT 989 eile 36,
"Did Someone Throw Them in the River?" Postal Stationery 31, no. 4 (July-August 1989): 114-19.
. "George S. Batchellor . . . An Eminent American." Stamps 228, nose? (August 12, 1989}< 12; 17.
"Neither snow, nor rain... Ben Franklin had built a mail
service that helped unify our new nation." Constitution 1, no. 2 (Winter 1989): 25-29.
. "The Postal Saving Systems, Part 3." Postal Stationery 31, no. 2 (March-April 1989): 49-52.
« “The Potts Letter, Box." The Heliograph 3,’ no. 1-(Winter
1989): 1-7. . "Prominence of the Cityscape .. . Post Office Architecture." The Heliograph 3, no. 3 (Summer 1989): 1-6. . "The Scarcity of Panama-Pacific Proofs: Rhetoric or Reality? Part 6." The United States Specialist 60, no. 3 (March 1989): 165-72. . "The Scarcity of Panama-Pacific Proofs: Rhetoric or Reality? Part 7." The United States Specialist 60, no. 4 (April 1989): 195-96. "The Schmidt Cameo-Tike Dummy Die." Postal Stationery 31,
no. 3 (May-June, 1989): 66-71.

<<<Page: 209>>>

. “White Wagon Mail Service." Stamps 227, no. 4 (April 22, ania foi) ew Ft bree tral es Geraci, Joseph J. “Ecuador, A Glimpse at One of the Smithsonian's Specialized Foreign Collections." NPC Newsletter 1, no. 2 (July-September 1989).
. “First Day Covers--A Working Library." Stamps (September 30, 1989).
. "French Military Cachets of the 1849 Expedition to Rome." France and Colonies Philatelist 45. no. 2.
. Reviews of Stanley Gibbons Stamp Catalogue, Part 1, British Commonwealth (1989); Fun and Profit in Stamp Coltecting. 5th edition, By Herman Herst, Jr.; Universal Stamping Machine Co., Machines and Postal Markings, 1909-1920 by Bart Billings; Check List of Postage Stamps About GG Dy A. Herbert Grimsley. Stamps (January 14, 1989).
. Reviews Of Private Printed Franks on U.S. Goverment Envelopes by Austin P. Haller; Standard Encyclopedia of Doremus Machine eee by Frederick Landgford; Collecting Stamps for Pleasure and Profit by Barry Krause; and Facit Ortstampelkatalog/Postal History, 1989 by the Swedish FAcit Committee. Stamps (February I1, 1989).
Reviews of Self-Sufficiency at All Costs: Confederate Post Office Operations in North Carolina, y Ricnard F. Ridgway; ostcard View of Jewisn Life by Davi earlman; and Airmail Antics Dy Fred Boughner. Stamps (March 11, 1989). Reviews of Stanley Gibbons Great Britain, Volume 5, Queen
Elizabeth II Decimal Special Issues, Ist edition (1988); Masonic Philately (Part 5) by Trevor J. Fray; Handbook of British Philately for the Intermediate Collector, Section 16, Coils by fom Current; Bangladesh Stamps and Postal History by Siddique M. Rahman; and SAL Gibbons Stamp Catalog, Part II, Scandinavia, 3d edition tamps (Apri
. Reviews of The Handbook of Tennis Philately by Lester M.
Yerkes; Specialized Catalog of United States First Day Covers,
complied by Leo August and Dr. Gerald H. Strauss; The Congress Book,
1988, Fifty-Fourth American Philatelic Congress, edited by Barbara R. MueTTer. Stamps (May 6, T9895).
Reviews of Confederate States of America, General Issues
Stamp Album by Conrad L. Bush; Stanley Gibbons Stamp Catalogue, Part 2, AuStria & Hungary, 4th edition (1988); Stanley Gibbons Collect Britisn Stamps, t5th edition (1988). Stamps (July T, 1989).
Reviews of Opinions V, Philatelic Eapertizing-oAn Inside View, edited by Elizabet ope; BLS 1latelic Federation, ToSs" Yearbook and Philatelic Sonietias Directory, edited by A. Herbert
rimsley; Pharmacy in Philately um by George Griffenhagen; and
Who's Who on the Postage Stamps of the World, 1840-1984, A Master Index, Wolume |, Aa-Az by Paul G. Partington. Stamps (September 23,

<<<Page: 210>>>

Department of Anthropology
Anderson, Martha G., and Kreamer, Christine Mullen. Wild Spirits, .~ Strong Medicine: African Art and the Wilderness. The Center for African Art, New York. 1989.
Anton-Pacheco, C.; Rowan, L. C.; Payas, A.; Gumiel, P.; Kingston, M. J. Schmidt, R. G.; Bel-lan, A. "Cartografia de aureolas de metamorfismo de contacto mediante la utilizacion de imagenes Landsat Thematic mapper (TM)." (abs) In Congreso Geologico de Espana, communicacions 2 (1988): 249-252.
Anton-Pacheco, Carmen; Rowan, Lawrence; Gumiel, Pablo; Schmidt, R. G.; Payas, Alba; Brickey, David; Kingston, Marguerite; and Bel-lan, Alejandro. "Multispectral Image Analysis for Mapping the Contact Aureole of a Shallow Pluton, San Nicolas Mine Area, Spain." (abs). In 28th International Geological Congress, Abstracts 1 (1989): 49-50.
Blakey, Michael L. "Skull Doctors: Intrinsic Social and Political Bias in the History of American Physical Anthropology, with Special Reference to the Work of Ales Hrdlicka." Critique of Anthropology 7 (1987): 7-35.
"Racism Through the Looking Glass: An Afro-American Perspective." World Archaeological Bulletin 2 (1987): 46-50.
"Social Policy, Economics, and Demographic Change in Nanticoke—Moor Ethnohistory." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 75 (1988): 493-502.
"The African-American Professional Association: A Place for Refuge, A Source of Change." Academe September-October. 1989.
Brown, James A., and Rogers, J. Daniel. "Linking Spiro's Artistic Styles: The Copper Connection." Southeastern Archaeology 8
(1989)3 1-8 Burch, Ernest S., Jr. "Modes of Exchange in Northwest Alaska." In Hunters and Gatherers 2. Property, Power and Ideology. Edited by
Tim Ingold, David Riches and James Woodburn pages 95-109. (London and New York: Berg Publishers Ltd.)
Fischbeck, Helmut J.; Rogers, J. Daniel; Ryan, Stuart R.; and Swenson, Fern E. "Sourcing Ceramics in the Spiro Region: A Preliminary Study Using Proton-Induced X-Ray Emission (PIXE) Analysis." Midcontinental Journal of Archaeology 14 (1)(1989): 3-17.
Fitzhugh, William W. "Smithsonian Institution." In Arctic Research of the United States 2 (1989): 74-77. +, tintroductiion'’ In ing Views: Filmi the Peoples of the North Pacific Rim. Museum of Natural History. Department of Education, Film Program 4-5 February, 1989.
. "Archaeological Reconnaissance of the Seal Lake Region, Interior Labrador." In Archaeology in Newfoundland and Labrador. Edited by Callum Thomson. Annual Report No. 7, Historic Resources
Division, Govermment of Newfoundland and Labrador. 1989
"Hamilton Inlet and Cartwright Reconnaissance." In Archaeology
in Newfoundland and Labrador, 1986. Edited by Callum Thomson.
Annual Report No. 7, Historic Resources Division, Government of
Newfoundland and Labrador. 1989.

<<<Page: 211>>>

Fleming, Paula. The North American Indians in Early Photographs. Fleming and Luskey. Dorsett Press, New York. 1988.
Fowler, Don D. "Myself in the Water." The Western Photographs of John
K. Hiller, 1871-1900. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press. 1989.
Fowler, Don D.; Hattori, Eugene M.; and Creger, C. Cliff. Summary Report of Archaeological Investigations in Warner Valley, Lake County, Oregon, 1987-1988. University of Nevada, Reno Department of Anthropology Research Reports. 89-1. Reno. 1989.
Frohlich, Bruno; Kervran, Monik; Carusso, Vincent; and McCormick, Kenneth. "Non-Contacting Terrain Conductivity Measurements at Qala't al-Bahrain, Bahrain. Arabian Gulf." Dilmon: Journal of the Bahrain Historical and Archaeological Society 14 (1989): 7489. State of Bahrain: Ministry of Information Press.
Frohlich, Bruno; Ortner, Donald J.; and Al-Khalifa, Haya. "Human Disease in the Ancient Middle East." Dilmon: Journal of the Bahrain Historical and Archaeological Society 14 (1989): 61-73. State of Bahrain: Ministry of Information Press.
Goddard, Ives. "Stylistic Dialects in Fox Linguistic Change". In
Historical Dialectology. Edited by Jacek Fisiak. (1988): 193209. Berlin: Mouton de Greyter.
"Pre-Cheyenne *y." In In Honor of Haas: From the Haas Festival Conference on Native American Linguistics. Edited by
William Shipley. (1988): 345-360. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. "Gatschet, Albert Samuel 1832-1907." In History of IndianWhite Relations. Edited by Wilcomb E. Washburn. (1988): 646. Handbook of North American Indians Volume 4. General Editor, William C. Sturtevant. Washington, D. C.:.. Smithsonian Institution. . "La Farge, Oliver Hazard Perry 1901-1963." In History of Indian-White Relations. Edited by Wilcomb E. Washburn. (1988): 658. Handbook of North American Indians, Volume 4. General Editor, William C. Sturtevant. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution. . “Swanton, John Reed, 1873-1958." In History of Indian-White Relations. Edited by Wilcomb E. Washburn. (1988): 688. Handbook of North American Indians, Volume 4. General Editor, William C. Sturtevant. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution.
"Zeisberger, David 1721-1808." In History of Indian-White Relations. Edited by Wilcomb E. Washburn. (1988): 698-699. Handbook of North American Indians Volume 4. General Editor, William C. Sturtevant. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution.
Goddard, Ives, and Bragdon, Kathleen J. Native Writings in Massachusett. 2 vol. Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society 185. (1988). Philadelphia: The American Philosophical Society.
Houchins, Chang-su. "Kisan P'ungsok-to: Sumisonian Pangmulgwan Sojang (Kisan Genre Paintings in the Smithsonian Korean Collections." Ko Misul (Arts Review), (21) (Spring/Summer 1989): 44-52. Seoul.

<<<Page: 212>>>

Jungers, William L.; Cole, III, Theodore M.; and Owsley, Douglas W. "Multivariate Analysis of Relative Growth in the Limb Bones of Arikara Indians." Growth, Development and Aqing 52 (1988): 103107.
Kaeppler, Adrienne L. "Pacific Festivals and the Promotion of Identity, Politics, and Tourism." In Come Mek Me Hol' Yu Han': The Impact of Tourism on Traditional Music. Edited by Adrienne L. Kaeppler and Olive Lewin. (1988): 121-138. Kingston, Jamaica: Jamaica Memory Bank.
"Introduction." In Come Mek Me Hol' Yu Han': The Impact of Tourism on Traditional Music. Edited by Adrienne L. Kaeppler and Olive Lewin. (1988): xiii-xvi. Kingston, Jamaica: Jamaica Memory Bank.
Four Entries (Hawaiian "Lei niho palaoa", Fijian "Kali", Marquesan "'U'u" and "Pu". In African, Oceanic, and Indonesian Masterpieces in the Rotterdam Museum of Ethnology. Edited by Suzanne Greub. (1988): 114-121. Basel: Tribal Art Centre.
Review of Half a Century of Dance Research, by Gertrude Kurath. In Dance Research Journal 20 (1) (1988): 47-48.
"She Writes the Songs that Make the Whole World Sing." Book and Record Review of "Songs of Love by Tu'imala Kaho". In Matangi Tonga 3 (4) (1988): 37-39.
"Cook's Feathered Cape." Australian Natural History 22
(12) (1989): 548-550.
. "Dance." In International Encyclopedia of Communications 1 (1989): 450-454. New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press. . "Museums of the World—Stages for the Study of Ethnohistory." In Museum Studies in Material Culture. Edited by Susan M. Pearce. (1989): 83-96. Leicester, England: Leicester University Press. . Review of Tongan Music by Richard Moyle. In Ethnomusicology 33 (2)(1989): 354-358.
Karp, Ivan. The Creativity of Power: Cosmol and Action in African Societies. Edited by William Arens and Ivan Karp. (1989). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Introduction." In The Creativity of Power: Cosmology and Action in African Societies. Edited by William Arens and Ivan Karp. (1989): xi-xxix. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"Power and Capacity in Ritual of Possession." In The Creativity of Power: Cosmology and Action in African Societies. Edited by William Arens and Ivan Karp, (1989): 91-109. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Kaupp, Ann. P. Anthro. Notes. A National Museum of Natural History Newsletter for Teachers 10(3); 11(1); 11(2), 1988-89.
. "The Hopi-Smithsonian Project: Bridging a Gap." Anthro. Notes 10 (3) (Fall 1988): 11-14.
Killeen, Victoria, and Owsley, Douglas W. "Where are the Soldiers Buried?" Civil War Times Illustrated27 (10) (1989): 12-20.
Laughlin, Robert M. "The Living World of the Maya." Orion Nature Quarterly 7 (4)(1988): 31-33.
. "What is a Tzotzil? or What is the Truth of the Matter? or What
is the Matter with the Truth?" Res 15 (1) (1988): 133-156.

<<<Page: 213>>>

Laughlin, Robert M., and Haviland, John B. The Great Tzotzil Dictionary of Santo Domingo Zinacantan. Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology I, II, III (31) (1988). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Mann, R. W., and Krakker, J. J. "A Black Skeletal Sample from Washington, D.C. in the Context of Nineteenth-Century Urban Expansion. Tennessee Anthropologist 14 (1)(1989): 1-32.
Mann, R. W., and Murphy, S. P. "Skeletal Indicators of Physical Stress in the Fort Erie Soldiers: Schmorl's Depressions, Cortical Defects, and Wedged Vertebrae." Northeastern Anthropological Association (1989): 26. (abstract). Montreal.
Mann, Robert W. "Calcaneus Secundarius: Description of a Common Accessory Ossicle." Journal of the American Podiatric Medical Association 79 (8) (1989): 363-366.
Mann, Robert W., and Owsley, Douglas W. "Anatomy of Uncorrected Talipes Equinovarus in a Fifteenth-Century American Indian." Journal of the American Podiatric Medical Association 79 (9) (1989): 436-440.
Meggers, Betty J. "Desenvolvimento da arqueologia brasileira, 19351985: uma visao pessoal." Boletim Serie Catalogos 3 (1989): 149-154. Instituto de Arquelogia Brasileira, Rio de Janeiro.
. "Archaeology: South America’. Handbook of Latin American Studies 49 (1989): 51-75. Austin, Texas: University of Texas Press.
Meggers, Betty J., and Danon, Jacques. "Identification and Implications of a Hiatus in the Archeological Sequence on Marajo Island, Brazil." Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 78 (1988): 245-253.
Meggers, Betty J.; Dias, Ondemar F.; Miller, Eurico Th.; and Perota, Celso. "Implications of Archeological Distributions in Amazonia." Proceedings of a Workshop on Neotropical Distribution Patters Held 12-16 January 1987 (1988): 275-294. Edited by W. Ronald Heyer and P. Vanzolini. Rio de Janeiro: Brasileira de Ciencia.
Ortner, D. J. "Paleopathology and the Rheumatic Diseases." In The Antiquity of the Erosive Arthropathies, Conference Proceedings No. 5. Edited by P. Dieppe and Rogers. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Council for Research (1988): 58-61.
"Case Histories (Erosive Arthropathy)." The Antiquity of the
Erosive Arthropathies, Conference Proceedings No. 5. Edited by P.
Dieppe and Rogers. (1988): 48-49.
Ortner, D. J., and Krakker, James J. Case Report No. 10. Paleopathology Newsletter 61 (1988): 8-9.
Owsley, Douglas W., and Berryman, Hugh E. "Ethnographic and Archaeological Evidence of Scalping in the Southeastern United States." Reprinted in Mini-Histories: Of Hair, Scalps and Skulls. Edited by H. C. Brehm. Nashville, TN, (1989): 15-42.
Payas, A.; Schmidt, R. G.; Gmiel, P.;Anton-Pacheco, C.; Romeu, U; Kingston, M. J.; Milton, N. M.; Rowan, L. C. El uso de imagenes Landsat. IM en la exploracion de oro en el Carolina slate belt:
(abs.). In Congreso Geologico de Espana, communicacions 2 (1988): 261-263.

<<<Page: 214>>>

Payas, Alba; Schmidt, R. G.; Gumiel, Pablo; Anton-Pacheco, Carmen; Kingston, M. J.; Rowan, L. C.; and Milton, N. M. "Studies of Landsat T Data Anomalies on Field Soils and Forest Vegetation Associated with Hydrothermal Alteration, Carolina Slate Belt, U.S.A." In 28th International Geological Congress, Abstracts 2 (1989): 581-582.
Potter, Stephen R. "Early English Effects on Virginia Algonquian Exchange and Tribute in the Tidewater Potomac." In Powhatan's Mantle: Indians in the Colonial Southeast. Edited by Peter H. Wood, Gregory A. Waselkov and M. Thomas Hatley. (1989): 151-172. Lincoln, Nebraska: University of Nebraska Press.
Rogers, J. Daniel. "Settlement Contexts for Shifting Authority in the Arkansas Basin." In Contributions to Spiro Archaeology: Mound
Excavations and Regional Perspectives. Edited by J. Daniel Rogers, Don G. Wyckoff, and Dennis A. Peterson. (1989): 159-176.
Oklahoma Archeological Survey, Studies in Oklahoma's Past 16.
"Context for a Regional Perspective." In Contributions to Spiro Archaeology: Mound Excavations and Regional Perspectives. Edited by J. Daniel Rogers, Don G. Wyckoff, and Dennis A. Peterson. (1989): 113-115. Oklahoma Archeological Survey, Studies in Oklahoma's Past 16.
Review of Vectors of Death: The Archaeology of European Contact, by Ann F. Ramenofsky. University of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque (1987). American Antiquity 54 (1989): 658-660.
Rogers, J. Daniel; Wyckoff, Don G.; and Peterson, Dennis A.
(Editors). Contributions to Spiro Archaeol : Mound Excavations and Regional Perspectives. Oklahoma Archeological Survey, Studies
in Oklahoma's Past 16. 1989.
Singleton, Theresa A. "Breaking New Ground." Southern Exposure 16(2) (1988a): 18-22.
Trousdale, William. "A Kushan Scabbard Slide from Afghanistan." Bulletin of the Asia Institute 2 (1988): 25-30.
Ubelaker, Douglas H. "Porotic Hyperostosis in Prehistoric Ecuador." (Abstract) 12th International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences Zagreb, July 24-31, 1988. Collegium Anthroplogicum 12 (Supplement) (1988): 34.
. "Postmortem Modification of Human Bones, Lessons from Modern Forensic Cases." (Abstract) 12th International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences Zagreb, July 24-31, 1988. Collegium Antroplogicum 12 (Supplement) (1988): 344. . “Prehistoric Human Biology at La Tolita, Ecuador, A Preliminary Report." Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 78 (1)(1988): 23-37.
"A Preliminary Report of Analysis of Human Remains from Aqua
Blanca, A Prehistoric Late Integration Site from Coastal Ecuador." Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 78 (1) (1988): 1722.
. "North American Indian Population Size, A.D. 1500 to 1985." American Journal of Physical Anthrology 77 (3) (1988): 289-294. . "Lost Testimonios de Nuestra Historia Antigua: Estudio de Esqueletos." Hoy, 4 de Septiembre, p. 2C. Quito, Ecuador. 1988.
rs) Oo oo

<<<Page: 215>>>

Ubelaker, Douglas H. "Restos Humanos Prehistoricos del Sitio Cotocollao, Provincia del Pichincha, Ecuador." Appendix 11, pp. 557-571 in Cotocollao: Una Aldea Formative del Valle de Quito by Marcelo Villalba. Miscelania Antropologica Ecuatoriana, Serie Monografica 2, Museos del Banco Central Del Ecuador: Quito. 1988. . Human Skeletal Remains. Excavation, Analysis, Interpretation. Second Edition. Washington: Taraxacum. (1989): 172 pages, 164 figures, 31 tables, 7 appendices.
___. "J. Lawrence Angel 1915-1986" (obituary). American Antiquity ~~ 54 (1)(198): 5-8.
. "The Reburial Issue." Physical Anthropology News 8 (1) (1989): 1-4.
Ubelaker, Douglas H., and Sperber, Norman D. "Alterations in Human Bones and Teeth as a Result of Restricted Sun Exposure and Contact with Corrosive Agents." Journal of Forensic Sciences 33 (2): 540-548.
Van Beek, Gus W. The Scholarship of William Foxwell Albright: An
raisal. Harvard Semitic Monographs No. 33 (1989) Atlanta, Georgia: Scholars Press.
"The Organization of the Symposium." In The Scholarship of William Foxwell Albright. Harvard Semitic Monographs No. 33 (1989): 3-5. Atlanta, Georgia: Scholars Press.
. "William Foxwell Albright: A Short Biography." In The Scholarship of William Foxwell Albright. Harvard Semitic Monographs No. 33 (1989): 7-15. Atlanta, Georgia: Scholars Press.
. 'W. F. Albright's Contribution to Archaeology." In The "Scholarship of William Foxwell Albright (1989): 61-73. Atlanta, Georgia: Scholars Press.
Wright, Rita P. "New Tracks on an Ancient Frontier." In Archaeological Thought in America. Edited by C. C. LambergKarlovsky (1989): 268-279. Cambridge University Press.
Wright, Rita P.; Beaudry, M.; and Kenoyer, J. M. "Traditional Potters of India." Expedition 29 (3) (1987) : 55-63.
Wright, Rita P.; Blackman, M. J.; and Mery, S. "Production and Distribution of Ceramics from the Perspective of Hili." Journal
of Field Archaeology 16 (1)(1989): 61-77.
Department of Botany
Averett, J. E.; Huang, S.; and Wagner, W. L. "Flavonoid Survey of Oenothera (Onagraceae): sects. Gauropsis, Hartmannia, Kneiffia Paradoxus, and Xyloplerum." American Journal of Botany. 75 (1988): 476-483.
Bogner, J., amd Nicolson, D. H. "Revision of the South American Genus Gorgonidium Schott (Araceae: Spathicarpeae)." Botanisches Jahrbucher 109 (1988): 529-554.
Dietrich, W., and Wagner, W. L. "Systematics of Oenothera Section Oenothera Subsection Raimannia and Subsection Nutantigemma (Onagraceae)." Systematic Botany Monographs 24 (1988): 1-91.
Eyde, R., and Ferguson, K. "The Little Lost Dogwood of Frank Kingdon
Ward." Kew Magazine 6 (2) (1989): 74-83.

<<<Page: 216>>>

Fletcher, A., and Hale, M. E. "New Xanthoparmelia (Lichenized Ascomycotina)» from Brazil." Mycotaxon 33 (1988): 279-280.
Fosberg, F. R. "In the Beginning..." University South Pacific Bulletin 22 (15) (1989): 1-3.
. "Guest Editorial: Interest and Beauty in the World." Environmental Conservation 16 (1989): 14. "Society Island Plants. 1. Typha L. (Typhaceae)." Botanical Bulletin Academia Sinica 30 (1989): 219-221.
“Garbage Dump in the Marshall Islands." Environmental Conservation 16 (1989): 78-79.
Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. "Three Cultivated Ixoras (Rubiaceae)." Baileya 23 (1989): 74-85.
. "Lectotypification of Ixora coccinea L. (Rubiaceae)." Taxon 38 (1989): 486-489.
Frame, D.; Wagner, W. L.; Herbst, D. R.; and Sohmer, S. H. "Hawaiian Islands." In Floristic Inventory of Tropical Countries. Edited by D. Campbell and H. D. Hammond. New York: New York Botanical Garden, 1989: 181-186.
Goldberg, A., and Cirilo, N. S. "Haptanthus, a New Dictyledonous Genus from Honduras." Systematic Botany 14 (1989): 16-19, figs. 1-3.
Greuter, W.; McNeill, J.; and Nicolson, D. H. "Report on Botanical Nomenclature Berlin 1987." Englera 9 (1989): 1-228.
"Regarding Proposals to Amend the International Code of
Botanical Nomenclature: Procedures." Taxon 38 (1989): 474-
475).
Hale, M. E. "New Species in the Lichen Genus Xanthoparmelia (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Mycotaxon 34 (2) (1989): 541564.
"A Monograph of the Lichen Genus Karoowia Hale (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Mycotaxon 35 (1) (1989): 177-198.
"A New Lichen Genus, Psiloparmelia Hale (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Mycotaxon 35 (1) (1989): 41-44.
Hale, M. E., and Cole, M. lLichens of California, California Natural History Guides, 54. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1988.
Hanisak, M. D.; Littler, M. M.; and Littler, D. S. "Functional Morphology of the Polymorphic Red Alga Gracilaria tikvahiae." Marine Biology 99 (1988): 157-165.
Imada, C. T.; Wagner, W. L.; and Herbst, D. R. "Checklist of Native and Naturalized Flowering Plants of Hawai'i." Bishop Museum Occassional Paper 29 (1989).
Jakupovic, J.; Grenz, M.; Bohlmann, F.; Wasshausen, D. C.; and King, R. M. "Sesquiterpene Lactones from Rolandra fruticosa."
Phytochemistry 28 (7) (1989): 1937-1941. he J.; Lehman, L.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Sesquiterpene Lactones and Other Const icuents from Cassinia, Actinobole and Anaxeton Species." Phytochemistry 27 (12) (1988): 3831-3839
Jakupovic, J.; Schuster, A.; Bohlmann, F.; Ganzer, U.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Diterpenes and Other Constituents from Australian Helichrysum and Related Species." Phytochemistry 28 (2) (1989): 543-551.

<<<Page: 217>>>

Judziewicz, E. J., and Peterson, P. M. "Sporobolus temomairemensis (Poaceae: Eragrostideae), a New Species from Brazil and Surinam." Systematic Botany 14 (1989): 525-528.
Kvist, L. P., and Skog, L. E. "Colummea _incredibilis and Cremosperma filcifolium Two Remarkable New Gesneriaceae from Wester Colombia." Nordic Journal of’ Botany 8 (3) (1988): 253-257.
"The genus Cremosperma (Gesneriaceae) in Ecuador." Nordic
Journal of Botany 8 (3) (1988): 259-269.
. "Revision of Reldia (Gesneriaceae)." Nordic Journal of Botany 8 (6) (1989): 601-611.
Lellinger, D. B. "The Ferns and Fern-allies of Costa Rica, Panama, and the Choco (Part 1: Psilotaceae through Dicksoniaceae) ." Pteridologia 2A (1989): 1-364.
Little, E. L., Jr. "Los Pinos Pinoneros de los Estados Unidos: su pasado y su futuro." In I] Simposio Nacional sobre Pinos
Pinoneros 6-7-8 de Agosto de 1987. Compiled by M.-F. Passini, D. G. Tovar, T. Eguiluz Piedra. Mexico: Centre d'Etudes Mexicaines
et Centramericaines, 1988: 21-27.
Little, E. L., Jr., amd Skolmen, R. G. Common Forest Trees of Hawaii (Native and Naturalized). Agriculture Handbook 679. Washington, De: U. S. Department of Agriculture, 1989.
Little, E. L., Jr., amd Wadsworth, F. H. Common Trees of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Agriculture Handbook 249. Second printing with supplement and added names. Washington, Dc: U. S. Department of Agriculture, 1989.
Little, E. L., Jr.; Woodbury, R. O.; and Wadsworth, F. H. Arboles de
Puerto Rico y las Islas Virgenes, Sequndo Volumen. Agriculture Handbook 449-S. Washington, DC: U. S. Department of Agriculture, 1988.
Littler;"D: S.5" Littler, Mi: M:+~Bucher, 'K. “E.7and'\Norris, J. N:
Marine plants of the Caribbean, a field quide from Florida to Brazil. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989.
Littler, M. M.; Littler, D. S.; amd Brooks, B. L. "An Observational Test of the Relative-dominance Paradigm: Field Notes from Joint USSR-USA Expedition to the Seychelles." Report to the Republic of the Seychelles from the cruise of the R/V Nesmeyanov (1989): 32 pages.
. "A Comparison of Nutrient-limited Productivity in Macroalgae from High Granitic Islands Versus Phosphorus-rich and Phosphoruspoor Coralline Atolls in the Seychelles Archipelago." Report to the Republic of the Seychelles from the cruise of the R/V Nesmeyanov (1989): 33 pages.
Littler, M."M.;> Littler, DD. S:.-"and Lapointe, B. Bi) "A Comparison of Nutrient and Light-limited Photosynthesis in Psammophytic Versus Epilithic Forms of Halimeda (Caulerpales, Halimedaceae) from the Bahamas." Coral Reefs 6 (1988): 219-225.
Littler, M. M.; Taylor, P. R.; and Littler, D. S. "Complex Interactions in the Control of Coral Zonation on a Caribbean Reef Flat." Oecologia 80 (1989): 331-340.
Lorence, D. H.; Wagner, W. L.; and Herbst, D. R. "Plant Taxonomy in the Hawaiian Islands." In Conservation Biology in Hawai'i. Edited by C. P. Stone and D. B. Stone. Cooperative National Park Resources Studies Unit, University of Hawai'i, Honolulu (1989): 43-47.

<<<Page: 218>>>

MacBryde, O. "Ecuador's Debt-for-Nature Swap." Biological Conservation Newsletter 73 (1989): 1.
"New Colombian Parks." Threatened Plants Newsletter 29 (1988): 5-6.
Mill, S. W.; Gowing, D. P.; Herbst, D. R.; and Wagner, W. L. Indexed Bibliography on the Flowering Plants of Hawai'i. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press and Bishop Museum Press, 1988.
Miller, J. S., amd Nowicke, J. W. "Sectional Placement of Some Problematic Cordia Species (Boraginaceae)." Systematic Botany 14 (1989): 271-280.
Murray, S. N., and Littler, M. M. "Seaweeds and Seagrasses Floras of Southern California: List for Twenty-one Rocky Intertidal Sites." Bulletin of the Southern California Academy of Science 88 (2) (1989): 72-80.
Nagarkar, M. B., and Hale, M. E. "New Species in the Lichen Family Thelotremataceae from Asia (Ascomycotina)." Mycotaxon 35 (2) (1989): 437-447.
Nicolson, D. H. "History of Aroid Systematics." Aroideana 10 (4) (1988): 25-30.
Nicolson, D. H.; Suresh, C. R.; and Manilal, K. "An Interpretation of Van Rheede's “Hortus Malabaricus'." Regnum Vegetabile 119 (1989): 1-378.
Nowicke, J. W. "A Palynological Study of Crotonoideae (Euphorbiaceae)." ABSTRACT, International Conference on the Systematics of the Euphorbiaceae. 1989.
Nowicke, J. W., and Miller, J. S. "Pollen Morphology and the Relationships of Hoplestigmataceae." Taxon 38 (1989): 12-16.
Paredes, L; Jukupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "p-htdroxyacetophenone Derivatives of the Montypic Genus Platypodanthera." Phytochemistry 27 (10) (1988): 199-202.
Park, Y.-S. and Hale, M. E. "Hypotrachyna osseoalba, the Correct Name for Hypotrachyna formosana (Parmeliaceae: Lichenized Ascomycotina)." Taxon 38 (1)(1989): 88.
Peterson, P. M. '! la majalcensis (Poaceae: Eragrostideae), a New Species from Chihuahua, Mexico." Systematic Botany 14 (1989): 316-319.
. "Lemma Micromorphology in the Annual Muhlenbergia (Poaceae) ."' Southwestern Naturalist 34 (1989): 61-71.
Peterson, P. M.; Annable, C. R.; amd Franceschi, V. R. "Comparative Leaf Anatomy in the Annual Muhlenbergia (Poaceae)." Nordic Journal of Botany 8 (1989): 575-583.
Reveal, J. L., amd Nicolson, D. H. "(947) Proposal to Correct the Typification of 2339 Iresine P. Browne, nom. cons. (Amaranthaceae)." Taxon 38 (1989): 503-505.
Robinson, H. "Plagiochila rudischusteri, a New Species from the Paria Peninsula of Venezuela." Beiheft zur Nova Hedwigia 90 (1988): 199-202.
. “Studies in the Lepidaploa Complex (Vermonieae: Asteraceae) IV. The New Genus, Lessingianthus." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (4) (1988): 929-951.
"Studies in the Lepidaploa Complex (Vernonieae: Asteraceae) V. The New Genus Chrysolaena." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (4) (1988): 952-958.

<<<Page: 219>>>

Robinson, H. "Studies in the Lepidaploa Complex (Vernonieae: Asteraceae) VI. A New Genus, Aynia." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (4) (1988): 959-965.
. "A Revision of the Genus Dresslerothamnus (Asteraceae:
Senecioneae)." Systematic Botany 14 (3)(1989): 380-388.
Robinson, H., amd King, R. M. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae) CCXXIV. Three Previously Misplaced South American Species." Phytologia 65 (6)(1989): 487-488.
Skog, L. E. "Novae Gesneriaceae Neotropicarum II. A New Species of Nautilocalyx from Venezuela." Systematic Botany 14 (3) (1989): 281-283.
"Coriaraceae." Flora of Ecuador 30 (1988): 3-7.
Smith, L. B. "New Key to the Genera of the Bromeliaceae." Beitrage zur _ Biologie der Pflanzen 63 (1988): 403-411.
"A Giant Dyckia Mystery." Journal of the Bromeliad Society
38 (1988): 248, 249, fig. 5, 6.
. “Another Giant Dyckia Mystery." Journal of the Bromeliad
Society. 1-39: (1989): 206,207) Tig. 7, 8.
. "Julian A. Steyermark." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 39 (1989)°3 > 557469".
Smith, L. B.; Downs, R. J.; amd Klein, R. M. "Euforbiaceas." Flora Tlustrada Catarinense, Monografia Euforbiaceas (1988, 1989): 1408;,,. f1gs.,.a—50.
Smith, L. B., and Kress, W. J. "New or Restored Genera of the Bromeliaceae." Phytologia 66 (1989): 70-79.
Smith, L. B., and Wasshausen, D. C. "Begoniaceae." Flora de Venezuela 4 (1989): 1-78, 101-105.
Tamayo-Castillo, G.; Jakupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Ent-clerodane Derivatives from Chromolaena connivens." Phytochemistry 28 (2) (1989): 641-642.
Villa-Lobos, J. "Biosphere II Project." Biological Conservation Newsletter 72 (1989): 1-2.
"New Foundation in Paraguay." Threatened Plants Newsletter 20 (1988): 6-7.
Wagner, W. L. “Reevaluation of Chamaesyce forbesii (Euphorbiaceae) ." Bishop Museum Occasional Paper 28 (1988): 71-78.
Wagner, W. L.; Herbst, D. R.; and Sohmer, S. H. "Contributions to the Flora of Hawai'i II. Begoniaceae—Violaceae and the Monocotyledons." Bishop Museum Occasional Paper 29 (1989).
Wasshausen, D. C. "New and Interesting Species of Acanthaceae from Peru." Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen 63 (1988): 421-429.
Wurdack, J. J. "Melastomataceae." In Botany of the Guayana Highland Part XIII. B. Maguire and Collaborators. Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden 51 (1989): 102-105.
Zdero, C.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "The First 12.8b-germacrolide and other Constituents from Bolivian Stevia Species." Phytochemistry 27 (9) (1988): 2835-2842.
. "Sesquiterepene Lactones and Other Constituents from
Australian Helipterum Species." Phytochemistry 28 (2) (1989):
5 =—526:.
Zdero, C.; Bohlmann, F.; Solomon, J. C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Ent-clerodanes and Other Constituents from Bolivian Baccharis Species." Phytochemistry 28 (2) (1989): 531-542.

<<<Page: 220>>>

Department of Entomology
Baimai, V.; Harbach, R. E.; and Kijchalao, U. "Cytogenetic Evidence for a Fifth Species within the Taxon Anopheles dirus in Thailand.
Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 4 (1988): 333-338.
Baolin, L.; Shuhaong, J.; and Ward, R. A. "New Mosquitoes in China Added to the Second Supplement of the World Catalog (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 21 (1988): 11-15.
Barnes, J. K., and Knutson, L. V. "86. Family Sciomyzidae." Pp. 566-567 in Evenhuis, N. L. (ed.), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Burns, John M. "Phylogeny and Zoogeography of the Bigger and Better Genus Atalopedes (Hesperiidae)." Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society 43 (1989): 11-32.
Davis, Donald R. "Foreward" In A. K. Zagulajev (ed.), Fauna USSR
Subfamily Myrmecozelinae, Tineidae, Vol. 4, Academy of Sciences
USSR [English translation of Russian (1975)] (1988).
"Foreward" In V. I. Kuznetzov (ed.). The Lepidoptera Fauna of the USSR _ and Adjacent Countries, Vol. 56, Academy of Sciences USSR, [English translation of Russian (1973)] (1988).
"The Prototheoridae, an Indigenous Family of South
African Moths ." Proceedings of the XVIII International Congress of Entomology (1989): p. 26.
. "The Tineoid Complex: A Review of the Biology, Composition, and Phylogeny of the Most Primitive Ditrysian Moths .' Proceedings of the XVIII International Congress of Entomology (1989) "3. ps. 79)
. "Book Review. Lepidoptera Anatomy by John L. Eaton." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91
(2) (1989): 293-294.
Delfinado-Baker, M., and Baker, E. W. "A New Mite in Bee-hives: Forellinia faini, n. sp. (Acari: Acaridae)." American Bee Journal 129 (1989): 127-128.
Delfinado-Baker, M., amd Baker, E. W. "Mites (Acari) Associated with Bees (Apidae) in Asia, with Description of a New Species." American Bee Journal 129 (1989): 609-613.
Dellacasa, G., amd Gordon, R. D. "The Type Species of Aphodius Subgenus Platyderides A. Schmidt." Bollettino della Societa Entomologica Italiana 120 (1988): 121-124.
Drea, Jr., J. J., amd Carlson, R. W. "Establishment of Cybocephalus sp. (Coleoptera: Nitidulidae) from Korea on Unaspis euonymi (Hymenoptera: Diaspididae) in the Eastern United States." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 90 (1988): 307-309.
Endris, R. G.; Keirans, J. E.; Robbins, R. G.; and Hess, W. R. Ormnithodores (Alectorobius puertoricensis Fox (Acari: Argasidae: Redescripton by Scanning Electron Microscopy. Journal of Medical Entomology 26 (3) (1989): 146-154.

<<<Page: 221>>>

Erwin, Terry L., and Pogue, Michael. "Agra, Arboreal Beetles of Neotropical Forests: Biogeography and the Forest Refugium Hypothesis (Carabidae)" in Heyer, W. R. and P. E. Vanzolini (Eds.), Neotropical Distribution Patterns: Proceedings of a 1987 Workshop. Proceedings of the Brasilian Academy of Sciences (1989): 161-188.
Evenhuis, N. L.; Thompson, F. C.; Pont, A. C.; and Pyle, B. L. "Literature Cited." pp. 807-989 in Evenhuis, N. L. (ed.), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Fain, A., and Smiley, Robert L. "A New Cloacarid Mite (Acari: Cloacaridae) From the Lungs of the Great Horned Owl, Bubo virginianus, from the U.S.A." International Journal of Acarology 15 (1989): 111-115.
Farrell, Brian D., and Erwin, Terry L. "Leaf-beetles (Chrysomelidae) of a Forest Canopy in Amazonian Peru: Synoptic List of Taxa, Seasonality, and Host-affiliations" in Jolivet, P., Petitpierre, P., amd T. Hsiao, (Editors), The Biol of the somelidae (1989) 3=8738=90).
Ferguson, Douglas C. "New Species and New Nomenclature in the American Acronictinae (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)." Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera 26 (1988): 201-218.
Flint, Jr., Oliver S. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXXIX: The Genus Smicridea in the Chilean Subregion (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 472 (1989): 1-45.
Flint, Jr., Oliver S., and Denning, D. G. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XL: New Species of Smicridea (Smicridea) from Middle America and the West Indies (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi on 102 (1989):
418-433. "Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies XLI: New Species and Records of Austrotinodes (Trichoptera: Psychomyiidae)." Pan-
Pacific Entomologist 65 (1989): 108-122.
Froeschner, R. C. "Family Acanthosomatidae Signoret, 1863." In
Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the
Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R.
C. (Editors). (1988): 1-3.
"Family Alydidae Amyot and Serville, 1843." In
Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the
Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R.
C. (Editors). (1988): 4-11.
"Family Aradidae Spinola, 1837." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 29-46.
Froeschner, R. C., and Henry, T. J. "Family Berytidae Fieber, 1851." In Catal of the Heteroptera, or True s, of Canada _and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 56-60.

<<<Page: 222>>>

Froeschner, R. C., amd Henry, T. J. "Family Cimicidae Latreille,
1802." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 64-68.
. “Family Coreidae Leach, 1815," In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). 69-92 (1988): 69-92. "Family Cydnidae Billberg, 1820." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental
United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 119-129. :
"Family Enicocephalidae Stal, 1860." In Catalog of the Hete or True Ss, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). pp. (1988)rs 132=135.
"Family Leptopodidae Amyot and Serville, 1843." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 166 pp.
"Family Macroveliidae McKinstry, 1942." In Catalog of
the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 246 pp.
"Family Pentatomidae Leach, 1815." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental
United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 544-597.
"Family Phymatidae Laporte, 1832." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental
United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 598-604.
. "Family Piesmatidae Spinola Amyot and Serrville, 1843." In
Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 605-607.
Froeschner, R. C., amd Henry, T. J. "Family Polyctenidae Westwood,
1874." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 611-612. "Family Reduviidae Latreille, 1807." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 616-651. . In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada _ and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 671 pp. "Family Scutelleridae Leach, 1815." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 684-693.
"Family Tessaratomidae Stal, 1864." In Catalog of the He ra, or True Bogs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 694-695.

<<<Page: 223>>>

Froeschner, R. C., and Henry, T. J. "Family Thaumastocoridae Kirkaldy, 1907." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 696-697.
. "Family Thyreocoridae Amyot and Serville, 1843." In Catalog
of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental
United States, Henry, T. J., and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors).
(1988): 698-707.
. “Family Tingidae Laporte, 1807." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States; sHenry 7. TsJ.. jand) Froeschner: "Rs ‘Csin(Editors).10(1988)': 708-733.
Furniss, M. M.; Ferguson, D. C.; et al. "Taxonomy, Life History, and Ecology of a Mountain Mahogany Defoliator, Stamnodes animata (Pearsall) in Nevada." Fish and Wildlife Research 3 (1988): 126.
Gagné, R. J. "A Polynomial Riley Name in Cecidomyiidae (Diptera) and Implications of Such Names for Cynipidae (Hymenoptera) ." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washi on 90 (1988): 394-395.
Gagné, R. J. Book Review. "Asa Fitch and the Emergence of American Entomology." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 9 (1989): 294-295.
Gagné, R. J. The Plant-feeding Gall Midges of North America. Cormell University Press, Ithaca, N.Y., ix + 355 pp., 4 pls. (1989).
Gagne, R. J. "12. Family Cecidomyliidae." pp. 152-163 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor) Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Gagné, R. J., and Boldt, P. E. "A New Species of Neolasioptera (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) from Baccharis (Asteraceae) in Southern United States and the Dominican Republic." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (1989): 169-174.
Gagne, R. J., and Hatchett, J. H. "Instars of the Hessian Fly (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae)." Annals of the Entomological Society of America 82 (1989): 73-79.
Gilbert, Lawrence E.; Forrest, Hugh S.; Schultz, Thomas D.; and Harvey, Donald J. "Correlations of Ultrastructure and Pigmentation Suggest How Genes Control Development of Wing Scales of Heliconius Butterflies." Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera 26 (1-4) (1988): 141-160.
Habeck, D. H.; Bennett, F. D.; amd Grissell, E. E. "First Record of Aphytophagous Seed Chalcid from Brazilian Peppertree in Florida." Florida Entomologist 72 (1989): 378-379.
Harbach, R. E.; Harrison, B. A.; Gad, A. M.; Kenawy, M. A.; and El-Siad, S. "Records and Notes on Mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) Collected in Egypt." Mosquito Systematics 20 (1988): 317-342.
Harbach, R. E., and Mongkolpanya, K. "Redescription of Culex (Eumelanomyia) richei, with Treatments of the Previously Unknown Life Stages and a Record of its Occurrence in Thailand."
Mosquito Systematics 20 (1988): 343-351.

<<<Page: 224>>>

Hardy, D. E., and Foote, R. H. "66. Family Tephritidae." pp. 502-531 in Evenhuis, N. L. (ed.), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Harvey, Donald J. "Perforated Cupola Organs on Larvae of Euselasiinae (Riodinidae)." Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society 43 (3) (1989): 247-249.
. “Book Review. Catalog of Lycaenidae and Riodinidae Lepidoptera: Rhopalocera) by Charles A. Bridges." Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society 43 (3) (1989): 250-251.
Harvey, Donald J., amd John W. Peacock. "New Records of Butterflies from North Andros, Bahamas." Entomological News 100 (2) (1989): 86-88.
Henry, T. J., amd Froeschner, R. C. Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States. E. J. Brill Co., New York, (1988): 958 pp.
Henry, Thomas J. "Cariniocoris, a New Phyline Plant Bug Genus from the Eastern United States, with a Discussion of Generic Relationships (Heteroptera: Miridae)." Journal of the New York Entomological Society 97 (1989): 87-99.
Heydon, S. L., and Grissell, E. E. "A Review of Nearctic Merismus Walker and Toxeuma Walker (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea: Pteromalidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 90 (1988): 310-322.
Hodges, Elaine R. S. "Scientific Illustration." Journal of Natural
Science Illustration 1 (1)(1988): 23.
Editor. The Guild Handbook of Scientific Illustration, New
York, Van Nostrand Reinhold (1989).
. "Scientific Illustration: a Working Relationship Between the Scientist and Artist." BioScience 39 (2) (1989): 104-111.
Homsher, P. J.; Keirans, J. E.; Robbins, R. G.; Irwin-Pinkley, L.; and Sonenshine, D. E. "Scanning Electron Microscopy of Ticks for Systematic Studies. 4. Structure of Haller's Organ in Eight Species of the Subgenus Sternalixodes of the Genus Ixodes (Acari: Ixodidae)." Journal of Medical Entomology 25 (5)(1988): 348-353.
Keirans, J. E.: Book Review. "The Ixodid Ticks of Uganda," by J. G. Matthysse and M. H. Colbo. ings of the Entomological
Society of Washington 90 (3) (1988): 398-400. Keirans, J. E., amd Litwak, T. R. "A Pictorial Key to the Adults of
Hard Ticks, Family Ixodidae (Ixodida, Ixodoidea), East of the Mississippi River." Journal of Medical Entomology 26 (5) (1989): 435-448.
Khoo, K. C. and Sabrosky, C. W. "75. Family Stenomicridae." p. 551 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Kingsolver, J. M. "Biosystematics of the Genus Merobruchus of Continental North America and the West Indies (Coleoptera: Bruchidae)." Technical Bulletin, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1744 (1988): 63 pp.
Kingsolver, J. M.; Gibb, T. J.; and Pfaffenberver, G. S. "Synopsis of the Bruchid Genus Althaeus Bridwell (Coleoptera) With Descriptions
of Two New Species." Transactions of the American Entomological Society 115 (1989): 57-82.

<<<Page: 225>>>

Kingsolver, J. M. “Illustrated Guide to Common Insect Pests in Museums." Section within the book A Guide to Museum Pest Control (1988): 53-81.
Knutson, L. V. "Plant Diagnostic Problems: Insects and Mites." Plant Protection and Quarantine, Vol. II of Selected Pests and Pathogens of Quarantine Significance Chapter 15, (1988): 219-249.
Knutson, L. V., and Murphy, W. L. "Systematics: Relevance, Resources, Services, and Management: A Bibliography." Association of Systematics Collections, Special Publication (1) (1988): 56 pp.
Kulasekera, V. L.; Harrison, B. A.; and Amerasinghe, F. P. "Anopheles (Anopheles) peytoni New Species, the "An. insulaeflorum" Auct. from Sri Lanka (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 20 (1988): 302-316.
Krombein, K. V., and Marsh, P. M. "Carl Frederick William Muesebeck, 1894-1987 ." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 90 (1988): 513-523.
Lindroth, C. H. "Translation: The Ground Beetles (Carabidae) of Fennoscandia: A Zoogeographic Study". Part II. Maps. Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, India, 271 p. Scientific Editor: J. Adis. Scientific Coordinator: T. L. Erwin (1989).
Maes, Jean-Michael, and Flint, Jr., Oliver S. "Catalogo de los Trichopteros de Nicaragua." Revista Nicaraquense de Entomologia 2 (2988)i = dT.
Maier, Chris T., amd Davis, Donald R. "Host and Distributional Records of Lithocolletine Gracillariidae (Lepidoptera) in Southern New England, with Comparison of Host Specificity and Utilization in Selected Temperate Regions." Miscellaneous Publications of the Entomological Society of America (70) (1989): 1-23, Figs. 1-51.
Marsh, P. M. “Revision of the Tribe Odontobraconini in the Westem
Hemisphere (Hymenoptera: Braconidae: Doryctinae)." Systematic
Entomology 13 (1988): 443-464.
"Notes on the Genus Hybrizon in North America (Hymenoptera: Paxylommatidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (1989): 29-34.
"Notes on Braconidae (Hymenoptera) Associated With Jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis) and Descriptions of New Species." Pan-Pacific Entomologist 65 (1989): 58-67.
Mathis, Wayne N. "Beach flies of the Republic of Seychelles (Diptera: Canacidae)." Bulletin of the Washington Biological Society 8 (1988): 22-29.
"53. Family Cypselosomatidae." In Catalog of Australasian
and Oceanian Diptera, N. L. Evenhuis, Editor. E. J. Brill and B.
P. Bishop Museum Special Publication 86 (1989): 463.
"56. Family Pseudopomyzidae." In Catalog of Australasian and
Oceanian Diptera, N. L. Evenhuis, Editor. E. J. Brill and B. P.
Bishop Museum Special Publication 86 (1989): 470.
"84. Family Coelopidae." In Catalog of Australasian and
Oceanian Diptera, N. L. Evenhuis, Editor. E. J. Brill and B. P.
Bishop Museum Special Publication 86 (1989): 563-564.
"99. Family Ephydridae." In Catalog of Australasian and
Oceanian Diptera, N. L. Evenhuis, Editor. E. J. Brill and B. P.
Bishop Museum Special Publication 86 (1989): 639-649.

<<<Page: 226>>>

Mathis, Wayne N. "103. Family Canacidae." In Catalog of Australasian and Oceanian Diptera, N. L. Evenhuis, Editor. E. J. Brill and B. P. Bishop Museum Special Publication 86 (1989): 669-670.
Mathis, Wayne N., and Sasakawa, M. "102. Family Tethinidae." In Catalog of Australasian and Oceanian Diptera, N. L. Evenhuis, Editor. E. J. Brill and B. P. Bishop Museum Special Publication 86 (1989): 667-668.
Mathis, Wayne N., and Zuyin, Jin. "A Review of the Asian Species of the Genus Lamproscatella Hendel (Diptera: Ephydridae)."
ings of the Biological Society of Washi on 101 (3) (1988): 540-548.
. "A Review of the Asian Species of the Genus Polytrichophora Cresson (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2)(1989): 434-446.
McGinley, Ronald J. "A Catalog and Review of Immature Apoidea (Hymenoptera)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (494) (1989):
Menke, A. "Pison in the New World: A Revision (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae: Trypoxylin)." Contributions of the American Entomological Institute 24 (1988): 171 pages.
Menke, A. "Arpactophilus Reassessed, with Three Bizarre New Species from New Guinea (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae: Pemphredoninae)." Invertebrate Taxonomy 2 (1989): 737-747.
Morris, G. K.; Klimas, D. E.; and Nickle, D. A. "Acoustic Signals and Systematics of False-leaf Katydids from Ecuador (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae: Pseudophyllinae)." Transactions of the American Entomological Society 114 (1989): 215-264.
Nakahara, S. "Generic Reassignments of North American Species
Currently Assigned to the Genus Sericothrips Haliday
(Thysanoptera: Thripidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological
Society of Washington 90 (1988): 480-483.
"A New Synonym and Revised Status in Apterothrips (Thysanoptera: Thripidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washi on 90 (1988): 508-509.
"A new species of Aleurotulus (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (1989): 436-440.
Nakahara, S., and Hilburn, D. J. "Annotated Checklist of the
Thysanoptera of Bermuda." Journal of the New York Entomological
Society 97 (1989): 251-260.
"Annotated Checklist of the Whiteflies (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae) of Bermuda." Journal of the New York Entomological Society 97 (1989): 262-264.
Nickle, D. A. "Singing in the Rain Forest: The Katydids of the Peruvian Amazon." Orion Nature Quarterly 7 (1989): 42-47.
Nickle, D. A., and Collins, M. S. "Key to the Kalotermitidae of Eastern United States with a New Neotermes from Florida (Isoptera)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (1989): 269-285.
Norrbom, A. L. "The Status of Urophora acuticormnis and Urophora sabroskyi (Diptera: Tephritidae)." Entomological News 100 (1989): 59-66.
I tr (e)

<<<Page: 227>>>

Norrbom, A. L., amd Marshall, S. A. "New Species and Phylogenetic Analysis of Lotophila Lioy (Diptera: Sphaeroceridae) ."
Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Ontario 119 (1988): L733
Norrbom, A. L.; Ming, Y.; and Hernandez-Ortiz, V. "A Revision of the Genus Oedicarena Loew (Diptera: Tephritidae)." Folia Entomologica Mexicana 75 (1988): 93-117.
Pafume, B. A.; Campos, E. G.; Francy, D. B.; Peyton, E. L.; Davis, A. N.; and Nelms, M. "Discovery of Aedes (Howardina) bahamensis in the United States. Journal of the Mosquito Control Association 4 (1988): 380.
Peterson, B. V. 16. Family Anisopodidae." pp. 180-181 in Evenhuis,
N. L. (Editor). Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and
Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill,
Honolulu (1989).
"An Unusual Black Fly (Diptera: Simuliidae) Representing a New Genus and New Species." Journal of the New York Entomological Society 97 (1989): 317-331.
Peterson, B. V., and Theischinger, G. "23. Family Thaumaleidae." pp. 219-220 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Peterson, B. V.; Baez, M.; and Sinclair, B. J. "A Redescription of the Adults, and Larva of Thaumalea subafricana (Diptera: Thaumaleidae), and First Description of the Pupa." Entomological News 100 (1989): 49-58.
Peyton, E. L., and Ramalingam, S. "Anopheles (Cellia) nemophilous, a New Species of the Leucosphyrus Group from Peninsular Malaysia and Thailand (Diptera: Culicidae)." Mosquito Systematics 20 (1989): 272-299.
Polhemus, J. T.; Froeschner, R. C.; and Polhemus, D. A. "Family Corixidae Leach, 1815." In Catalog of the Heteroptera, or True Bugs, of Canada and the Continental United States, Henry, T. J. and Froeschner, R. C. (Editors). (1988): 93-118.
Polhemus, John T., and Spangler, Paul J. "A New Species of Rheumatobates Bergroth from Ecuador and Distribution Notes on the Genus (Heteroptera: Gerridae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (3) (1989): 421-428.
Poole, R. W. Fascicle 118. "Noctuidae." 3 volumes, 1,318 pp. Lepidopterorm Catalogus. E. J. Brill, Leiden (1988).
Robbins, R. G. Book review. "The Fleas of the Pacific Northwest," by R. E. Lewis, J. H. Lewis, and C. Maser. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (1989): 486-489.
Russell, L. M. "Additions and Corrections to Data on Types of Aphids in Palmer's Aphids of the Rocky Mountain Region (Homoptera: Aphididae)." Annals of the Entomological Society of America 82 (1989): 407-413.
Sabrosky, C. W. "Protocalliphora Hough, 1899 (Insecta: Diptera) and
its Type Species Musca azurea Fallén, 1817: Proposed Conservation
of Usage by Designation of a Replacement Lectotype." Bulletin of
Zoological Nomenclature 46 (1989): 126-129.
"76. Family Asteiidae." pp. 552-553 in Evenhuis, N. L. (ed.), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).

<<<Page: 228>>>

Sabrosky, C. W. "79. Family Australimyzidae." p. 558 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor); Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
"80. Family Carnidae." p. 559 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor),
Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions,
1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
"100. Family Chloropidae." pp. 650-665 in Evenhuis, N. L.
(Editor), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989) .
. "78. Family Milichiidae." pp. 555-557 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu
(1989). Sabrosky, C. W. "Rapport sur les Myodaires du Docteur Robineau Desvoidy," 1826: Proposed Nomenclatural Suppression." Bulletin
of Zoological Nomenclature 45 (1988): 283-287.
Smith, D. R. "A New Species of the Leafmining Sawfly Genus Metallus (Hymenoptera: Tenthredinidae) from Eastern North America." Entomological News 99 (1988): 181-183.
Smith, D. R. "The Sawfly Genus Arge (Hymenoptera: Argidae) in the Western Hemisphere." Transaction of the American Entomological Society 115 (1989): 83-205.
Smith, D. R., and Solomon, J. D. "A New Janus (Hymenoptera: Cephidae) from Quercus, and Key to North American Species." Entomological News 100 (1989): 1-5.
Smith, David R. "A New Species of Anoplonyx (Hymenoptera, Tenthredinidae) Feeding on Larch in Northern Japan." Kontyu, Tokyo 56 (1988): 569-572.
Spangler, Paul J. "A New Species of Neotropical Water Bug, Paravelia biae, from Brazil (Heteroptera: Veliidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (3) (1989): 360-366.
Strickman, D. "Biosystematics of Larval Movement of Central American Mosquitoes and Its Use for Field Identification." Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 5 (1989): 208-218.
"Rate of Oviposition by Culex quinquefasciatus in San Antonio, Texas, During Three Years." Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 4 (1988): 339-344.
Thompson, F. C. "9. Family Lygistorrhinidae." p. 134 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989). :
Thompson, F. C.; and Vockeroth, J. R. "51. Family Syrphidae." pp. 437-458 in Evenhuis, N. L. (ed.), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Walker, J. B.; Keirans, J. E.; Pegram, R. G.; and Clifford, C. M. "Clarification of the Status of Rhipicephalus tricuspis Donitz, 1906 and Rhipicephalus lunulatus Neumann, 1907 (Ixodoidea, Ixodidae)." Systematic Parasitology 12 (1988): 159-186.
wp RP is)

<<<Page: 229>>>

Weatherby, J. C.; Moser, J. C.; Gagne, R. J.; and Wallace, H. N. "Biology of a Pine Needle Sheath Midge, Contarinia acuta Gagne (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) on Loblolly Pine." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (1989): 346-349.
White, Richard E. "Donald Joyce Borror." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 91 (1989): 304-306.
Wirth, W. W., amd Hubert, A. A. "The Culicoides of Southeast Asia (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Memoirs of the American Entomological Institute (44)(198 ): 508 pp.
Woodley, N. E. "33. Family Stratiomyidae." pp. 301-320 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press ard E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Woodley, N. E. "104. Family Neurochaetidae." pp. 671 in Evenhuis, N. L. (Editor), Catalog of the Diptera of the Australasian and Oceanian Regions, 1,155 pp., Bishop Museum Press and E. J. Brill, Honolulu (1989).
Woodley, N. E. Chapter 115. "Phylogeny and Classification of the 'orthorrphaphous' Brachycera." pp. 1371-1395. In McAlpine, J. F. (Editor), Manual of Nearctic Diptera Volume 3. Research Branch, Agriculture Canada, Monograph No. 32. Ottawa. (1989): 1333JSS.
Department of Invertebrate Zoology
Ai-Yun, D., amd Barnard, J. L. “Four Species of Gammarus (Amphipoda) from China." Sinozoologia 12 (1988): 85-112. 13 figures.
Arnaud, F., and Child, Cc. A. "The South African Museum's Meiring Naude Cruises, Part 17. Pycnogonida." Annals of the South African Museum 98 (6) (1988): 121-187. 14 figures.
Barnard, J. L., and Drummord, M. M. "A New Marine Genus, Doowia, from Eastern Australia (Amphipoda: Gammaridea)." Proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria 99 (1987): 117-126. 6 figures.
Barnard, J. L., and Thomas, J. D. '"Vadosiapus copacabanus, A New Genus and Species of Exoedicerotidae from Brazil (Crustacea: Amphipoda)." _Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (1988): 366-374. 3 figures.
. "Ipanemidae, New Family, Ipanema talpa, New Genus and Species,
from the Surf Zone of Brazil (Crustacea: Amphipoda:
Haustorioidea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 101 (1988): 614-621. 4 figures.
. "Four Species of Synopiidae from the Caribbean Region
(Crustacea: Amphipoda)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (1989): 362-374. 6 figures.
"A New Species, Ampelisca burkei (Crustacea: Amphipoda) from Florida." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi on 102 (1989): 375-384. 5 figures.
Barnard, J. L.; Thomas J. D.; and Sandved, K. "Behavior of Gammaridean Amphipoda (Crustacea): Corophium, Grandidierella, Podocerus, and Gibberosus (American Megaluropus) in Florida." _Crustaceana 13 (1988): 234-244. 1 figure.

<<<Page: 230>>>

Bayer, F. M., and Stefani, J. "Primnoidae (Gorgonacea) de NouvelleCaledonie." Bulletin du Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle Paris (4 ser.) 10 (section A) (No. 3) (1989): 449-518.
Bowman, T. E. "The Input of Terrestrial Insects and Spiders to the Nutrient Cycle of a "Woodland Pond"." Entomological News 99 (4) (1988): 207-216. |
Bowman, T. E., and Lewis, J. J. “Occurrence of the Calanoid Copepod Eurytemora affinis (Poppe) in the Ohio River at Louisville, Kentucky." Journal of Crustacean Biology 9 (1) (1989): 83-84.
Bruce, N. L., and Harrison-Nelson, E. B. "New Records of Fish Parasitic Marine Isopod Crustaceans (Cymothoidae, Subfamily Anilocrinae) from the Indo-West Pacific." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi n 101 (3)(1988): 585-602. Figures 1-7.
Cairns, S. D. “New Records of Stylasteridae from Western Australia, Including the Description of two new Species." Records of the Western Australian Museum 14 (1) (1988): 105-119. 4 plates.
"Cryptotrochus, New Genus and Two New Species of Deep-water Corals (Scleractinia: Turbiniliinae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (4) (1988): 709-716. 14 figures.
Chace, Jr., F. A. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 5: Family Alpheidae." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 466 (1988): vi+99. 25 figures.
"The Holotype of Heterocarpus alexandri A. Milne Edwards (Crustacea: Decapoda: Pandalidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 84-88. 1 figure.
Child, C. A. "Pycnogonida." In Introduction to the Study of Meiofauna. Edited by R. P. Higgins and H. Thiel. (1988): 423424. Figure 45-1. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, Dis
Chirino-Galvez, L. A., and Manning, R. B. "A New Deep-Sea Crab of the Genus Chaceon from Chile (Crustacea: Decapoda: Geryonidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 401-404.
Clark, J., amd Barnard, J. L. “Tonocote introflexidus, a New Species of Marine Amphipod from Argentina (Crustacea: Gammaridea: Amphipoda)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi on 101 (1988): 354-365.
Cressey, R., and Boxshall, G. "Kabatarina pattersoni, a fossil parasitic copepod (Dichelesthiidae) from a lower cretaceous fish." Micropaleontology 35 (2) (1989): 150-167.
Cullen, L. J., and Harshbarger, J. C. "Dose Dependent Teratosis in Spotted Salamander (Ambystoma maculatum) embryos exposed to diethylnitrosamine." _Herpetopathologia 1 (1989): 41-47.
Easa, M. El1-S.; Harshbarger, J. C.; and Hetrick, F. M. "Hypodermal lipomas in a striped (grey) mullet Mugil cephalus." _Diseases of Aquatic Organisms 6 (1989): 157-160.
Fauchald, K. "Polychaete Studies on Aldabra and Associated Islands." Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington 8 (1988): 19-21.
i R b

<<<Page: 231>>>

Fauchald, K.; Sturmer, W.; amd Yochelson, E. L. 'Two Worm-Like Organisms from the Hunsruck Slate (Lower Devonian), Southern Germany." Palaontologische Zeitschrift 62 (1988): 205-215.
Frye) Feo Dybdal;. N.i0. ; and Harshbarger, J.C." "Testicular Interstitial Cell Tumor in a Desert Tortoise (Gopherus agassizi)." Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 19 (1988): 55-58.
Frye, F. L.; Eichelberger, S. A.; Harshbarger, J. C.; and Cuzzocrea, A.
D. “Dysgerminomas in Two Red-Eared Slider Turtles (Trachemys scripta elegans) From the Same Household." Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 19 (1988): 149-151.
Harasewych, M. G. "A New Species of Coluzea (Gastropoda: Turbinellidae) from off Southeastern Africa." The Nautilus 103 (2) (1989): 70-72.
Harasewych, M. G., and Petit, R. E. "The Nomenclatural Status and Phylogenetic Affinities of Syrinx aruanus Linne, 1758 (Prosobranchia: Turbinellidae)." The Nautilus 103 (2) (1989): 83-84.
Harshbarger, J. C.; Rose, F. L.; and Cullen L. J. "Histopathology of Skin, Connective Tissue, Pigment Cell and Liver Neoplasms in Neotenic Ambystoma tigrinum from a Sewage Lagoon." Herpetopathologia 1 (1989): 19-27.
Hart, Jr., C. W., and Clark, J. "An Interdisciplinary Bibliography of Freshwater Crayfishes (Astacoidea and Parastacoidea) from Aristotle through 1985. Updated through 1987." (1989): 498 pages. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D. C.
Hershler, R. "Holsingeria unthanksensis, a New Genus and Species of Aquatic Cavesnail from Eastern North America." Malacological Review 22 (1988): 93-100.
. "Springsnails (Gastropoda: Hydrobiidae) of Owens and Amargosa River (Exclusive of Ash Meadows) Drainages, Death Valley System, California-Nevada." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (1989): 176-248.
Hershler, R., and Hubricht, L. "Notes on Antroselates Hubricht, 1963 and Antrobia Hubricht, 1971 (Gastropoda: Hydrobiidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (1988): 730-740.
Hershler, R., and Thampson, F. G. "Notes on Morphology of Amnicola limosa (Say, 1817) (Gastropoda: Hydrobiidae) with Comments on Status of the Subfamily Amnicolinae." Malacological Review 22 (1988): 81-92.
Higgins, R. P., amd Korczynski, R. "Two New Species of Pycnophyes (Homalorhagida, Kinorhyncha) From the Canadian Coast of the
Beaufort Sea." _Canadian Journal of Zoology 67 (1989): 2056-2064.
Higgins, R. P., amd Storch, V. "Ultrastructural Observations of the Larva of Tubiluchus corallicola (Priapulida)." Helgol. Wiss. Meeresunters 43 (1989): 1-11.
Hobbs, Jr., Horton H. "Burrowing Crayfishes in Virginia." Virginia Explorer 5 (2) (1989): 5-7.
Hobbs, Jr., Horton H., and Peters, D. J. "New Records of Entocytherid Ostracods Infesting Burrowing Crayfishes, with the Description of a New Species, Ascetocythere stockeri." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi on 102 (2)(1989): 324-330. Figure 1.

<<<Page: 232>>>

Hobbs, Jr., Horton H., and Rodriguez, G. "Freshwater Crabs Associated with Caves in Southern Mexico and Belize, with Descriptions of Three New Species (Crustacea: Decapoda) ." ings of the Biological Society of W 1 on 102 (2) (1989): 394-400. Figures a Die
Houbrick, R. S. "Campanile Revisited: IMPLICATIONS FOR CERITHIOIDEAN PHYLOGENY." American Malacological Bulletin 7 (1) (1989): 1-6.
Jones, M. L. "The Vestimentifera, Their Biology, Systematic and Evolutionary Patterns." Oceanologica Acta Special Issue 8 (1988): 69-82.
Jones, M. L., and Gardiner, S. L. "Evidence for a Transient Digestive Tract in Vestimentifera." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (2) (1988): 423-433.
Kensley, B. "New Species and Records of Cave Shrimps from the Yucatan Peninsula (Decapoda: Agostocarididae and Hippolytidae)." Journal of Crustacean Biology 8 (4) (1988): 688-699.
Kensley, B., and Schotte, M. "Guide to the Marine Isopods of the Caribbean." (1989): 1-308. 111 figures. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D. C. and London.
Kensley, B., amd Simmons, Jr., G. M. “Axioryoma nethertoni, a New Genus and Species of Thalassinidean Shrimp from Florida (Decapoda: Axiidae)." Journal of Crustacean Biology 8 (4) (1988): 657-667.
Kornicker, L. S. "Ostracoda from the Skagerrak, North Sea (Myodocopina)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (4) (1987): 876-891.
"Ostracoda (myodocopina) of Enewetak Atoll. The Natural History of Enewetak Atoll, Volume I, The Ecosystem: Environments,
Biota, and Processs, and Volume II, Biogeography and Systematics."
Edited by D. M. Devaney, E. S. Reese, B. L. Burch, and P.
Helfrich. Chapter 21 (1987): 217-219.
. "Myodocopine Ostracods of the Alaskan Continental Shelf."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi on 101 (3) (1988):
549-567. Figures 1-7.
"Myodocopid Ostracods of the Beaufort Sea, Arctic Ocean." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 456 (1988): 1-40.
"Bathyal and Abyssal Myodocopid Ostracoda of the Bay of Biscay and Vicinity." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 467 (1989): 1-134. 73 figures, 8 tables.
Kornicker, L. S., and Iliffe, T. M. "Troglobitic Ostracoda (Myodocopa: Cypridinidae, Thaumatocyprididae) from Anchialine Pools on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos Islands." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 483 (1989): 1-38. 17 figures, 15 tables.
"New Ostracoda (Halocyprida: Thaumatocyprididae and Halocyprididae) from Anchialine Caves in the Bahamas, Palau, and Mexico." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 470 (1989): 1-47. 22 figures, 8 tables.
. "Ostracoda (Myodocopina Cladocopina, Halocypridina) Mainly from Anchialine Caves in Bermida." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 475 (1989): 1-88. 49 figures, 22 tables.
Kornicker, L. S., and Palmer, R. J. "Deeveya bransoni, a New Species of Troglobitic Halocyprid Ostracode from Anchialine Caves on South Andros Island, Bahamas (Crustacea: Ostracoda)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 100 (3) (1987): 610-623.
vv ie) fos

<<<Page: 233>>>

Kristensen, R. M., and Higgins, R. P. "Marine Tardigrada from the Southeastern United States Coastal Waters. I. Paradoxipous orzeliscoides n. gen., n. sp. (Arthrotardigrada: Halechiniscidae)." Transactions of the American Microscopical Society 108 (1989): 262-282. :
Manning, R. B. "The Status of Callianassa hartmeyeri Schmitt, 1935, with the Description of Corallianassa xutha from the West Coast of America (Crustacea: Decapoda: Thalassinidea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi m 101 (4)(1988): 883-889.
Manning, R. B., and Holthuis, L. B. "Two New Genera and Nine New Species of Geryonid Crabs (Crustacea: Decapoda: Geryonidae)."
ings of the Biological Society of Washi on 102 (1) (1989): 50-77.
Nakamura, K., and Child, C. A. "Pycnogonida of the Western Pacific Islands, V. A Collection by the Kakuyo Maru from Samoa." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (4) (1988): 809-816. 2 figures.
Pawson, D. L. "Holothuroidea." In Introduction to the Study of Meiofauna. Edited by R. P. Higgins and H. Thiel. (1988): 457460. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D. C.
"Theodore Lyman, 1833-1897." In Echinoderm Studies 3. Edited by M. Jangoux and J. M. Lawrence. (1989). A. A. Balkema, Rotterdam.
Pawson, D. L.; Foell, E. J.; amd Hennigar, Jr., H. G. "Assessment of Abyssal Benthic Megafauna on a Ferromanganese Nodule Deposit Using Videotaped Television Survey Data." In Proceedings, Offshore Technology Conference, Houston (1989): 313-320.
Pawson, D. L., and Miller, J. E. "Thyone tanyspeira, a New Species of Sea Cucumber from the Southern Caribbean Sea (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea)." Bulletin of Marine Science 42 (2) (1988): 310316.
Pettibone, M. H. "New Species of Scale-Worms (Polychaeta: Polynoieae) from the Hydrothermal Rift-Area of the Mariana Back-Arc Basin in the Western Central Pacific." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (1)(1989): 137-153. 9 figures, 2 tables.
"Polynoidae and Sigalionidae (Polychaeta) from the Guaymas Basin, with Descriptions of Two New Species, and Additional Records from Hydrothermal Vents of the Galapagos Rift, 21°N, and Seep-Sites in the Gulf of Mexico (Florida and Louisiana)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi on 102 (1) (1989): 154-168. 6 figures, 1 table.
Pettibone, M. H. "A New Species of Benhamipolynoe (Polychaeta: Polynoidae: Lepidastheniinae) from Australia, Associated with the
Unattached Stylasterid Coral Conopora adeta." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 300-304. 2 figures.
"Two New Species of Harmothoinae (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from the East Pacific Rise, Collected by Alvin Dives 2000 and 2003." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washi on 102 (2) (1989): 305-310. 4 figures.

<<<Page: 234>>>

Pettibone, M. H. “Revision of the Aphroditoid Polychaetes of the Family Acoetidae Kinberg (=Polyodontidae Augener) and Reestablishment of Acoetes Audouin and Milne-Edwards, 1832, and Euarche Ehlers, 1887." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 464 (1989): 1-138. 96 figures.
Reid, J. W. "Thermocyclops decipiens (Copepoda Cyclopoida): Exemplo de confusdo taxonémica. (Thermocyclops decipiens: Example of Taxonomic Confusion.)" Proceedings, I Congresso Brasileiro de Limnologia, Belo Horizonte, Brazil, September 1986. Acta Limnologica Brasiliensia 2 (1988): 479-499. eT). Records’ Of -Cyclopoid:-and es Copepods (Crustacea) = froma Spring in Washington, D. C." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (2) (1988): 314-316.
. "“Yansacyclops ferrarii New Genus, New Species, of Copepoda (Cyclopoida) from the Amazon Basin, Brazil." (Special Volume on Biology of Copepods, Proceedings of the Third International
Conference on Copepoda. Edited by G. A Boxshall amd H. K. Schminke.) Hydrobiologia 167/168 (1988): 429-434.
"Distribution and Ecology of Species of the Genus Thermocyclops in the New World, with Description of T. parvis, New Species." Hydrobiologia 175 (2) (1989): 149-174.
Reid, J. W.; Pinto-Coelho, R. M.; and Giani, A. "Uma apreciacao da fauna de copepodos da regido de Belo Horizonte, com comentarios sobre especies de Minas Gerais. (An Assessment of the Copepod Fauna of the Region of Belo Horizonte, With Commentaries on Species of Minas Gerais.)" Proceedings, I Congresso Brasileiro de Limnologia, Belo Horizonte, September 1986. Acta Limnologica Brasiliensia 2 (1988): 527-547.
Reid, J. W., and Turner, P. N. "Planktonic Rotifera, Copepoda and Cladocera from Lakes Acu and Viana, State of Maranhao, Brazil." Revista Brasileira de Biologia 48 (3) (1988): 485-495.
Ruetzler, K. "Mangrove Sponge Disease Induced by Cyanobacterial Symbionts: Failure of a Primitive Immme System?" Diseases of Aquatic Organisms 5 (1988): 143-149.
Sohn, I. G., amd Kornicker, L. S. "Ultrastructure of Myodocopid Shells (Ostracoda)." In Evolutionary Biology of Ostracoda (Proceedings of the Ninth International Symposium on Ostracoda). Edited by T. Hanai, N. Ikeya, and K. Ishizaki. (1988): 243-257. Plates 106. Tokyo: Kodansha Ltd.
Stapleton, J. L.; Williams, W. D.; and Barnard, J. L. "The Morphology of the Calceolus of an Australian Crangonyctoid Freshwater Amphipod." Crustaceana 55 (1988): 157-162. 2 figures.
Storch, V., and Higgins, R. P. "The Ultrastructure of Developing and Mature Spermatozoa of Tubiluchus corallicola (Priapulida) .' Transactions of the American Microscopical Society 108 (1989): 45-50.
Storch, V.; Higgins, R. P.; amd Morse, M. P. "The Internal Anatomy of Meiopriapulus fijiensis (Priapulida)." Transactions of the American Microscopical Society 108 (1989): 245-261.
Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "Elasmopus balkomanus, a New Species of Elasmopus from the Florida Keys (Crustacea:
Amphipoda)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (1988): 838-842. 3 figures.
bw wv oo

<<<Page: 235>>>

Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. "Gammaropsis arawakia, a New Species of Marine Amphipoda (Crustacea) from Jamaica." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (1989): 89-94. 3 figures.
Williams, A. B., and Child, C. A. "Some Genera and Species of Oxystomatous Crabs (Brachyura: Calappidae) in the Southwestern North Atlantic." U.S. Fisheries Bulletin 87 (1) (1989): 105-121. 7 figures.
Williams, W. D., and Barnard, J. L. "The Taxonomy of Crangonyctoid plate saare (Crustacea) from Australian Fresh Waters: Foundation
Studies." Records of the Australian Museum 10 (1988): 1-180.
104 figures.
Department of Mineral Sciences
Abbott, R. N., Jr.; Post, J. E.; and Burnham, C. W. "Structure Energy Calculations Bearing on the Location of Hydrogen Atoms in Various Hydroxyl-bearing Minerals." Geological Society of America Abstracts. 20 (1988): A224.
"Treatment of the Hydroxyl in Structure-energy Calculations." American Mineralogist. 74 (1989): 141-150.
Batiza;, Ra pi FOXPOR «ude VOe), Pa Rat vCande..S. C.7.Grindlay, iN. Rs § Melson, W. G.; and O'Hearn, T. J. "Morphology, Abundance, and Chemistry of Near-ridge Seamounts in the Vicinity of the MidAtlantic Ridge at 26°S." Journal of Geology. 97 (1989): 209-220.
Bish, D. L., and Post, J. E. "Quantitative Analysis of Geological Materials Using X-ray Powder Diffraction Data and the Rietveld Refinement Method." Geological Society of America Abstracts. 20 (1988): A223.
Borgia, A.; Poore, C.; Carr, M. J.; Melson, W. G.; and Albarado, G. F. "Structural, Stratigraphic, and Petrologic Aspects of the ArenalCerro Chato Volcanic System: Evolution of a Young Stratovolcano Complex." Bulletin of Volcanology. 50 (1988): 86-105.
Buchwald, V. F., and Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Corrosion of Fe-Ni Alloys by Cl-containing Akaganeite (B-FeOOH): The Antarctic Meteorite Case." American Mineralogist. 74 (1989): 656-667.
Byerly, G. R.; Jarosewich, E.; Mason, B.; and Clarke, R. S., Jr. "The Greenwell Springs LIA Chondrite: A New Fall from Louisiana, USA." Meteoritics. 23 (1988): 359-360.
Cerny, P.; Chapman, R.; God, R.; Niedermayr, G.; and Wise, M. A. "Exsolution Intergrowths of Titanian Ferrocolumbite and Niobian Rutile from the Weinebene Spodumene Pegmatites, Carinthia, Austria." Mineralogy and Petrology. 40 (1989): 197-206.
Cerny, P.; Tomascak, P.; and Wise, M. A. "Pegmatite Studies in the Aylmer Lake Area, Northwest Territories." in Geology Division, Indian Affairs and Northern Development Report BGS 189-2 (1989): 14 pages.
Cerny, P.; Wise, M. A.; and Tomascak, P. "Reconnaissance of Ml,
M2 and Qulik 1 Claims, Chantrey Inlet, N.W.T." in Geology Division, Indian Affairs and Northern Development Report BGS 189-3 (1989): 16 pages.

<<<Page: 236>>>

Clarke, R. S., Jr. "Descriptions of Some Antarctic Iron Meteorite." Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences. 28 (1989): 61-63. 4
Dietrich, R. V.; White, J. S.; Nelen, J. E.; and Chyi, K. "A Genquality Iridescent Orthoamphibole from Wyoming." Gems and Gemology. 24 (1988): 161-164.
Duncker, K. E.; Wolff, J. A.; Harmon, R. S.; Leat, P. T.; Thompson, R. N.; and Dickin, A. P. "Mantle and Crustal Components in Mafic to Intermediate Lavas of the Cerros del Rio Volcanic Field, Rio Grande Rift, New Mexico." New Mexico Bureau of Mines and Mineral Resources Bulletin. 131 (1989): 77.
Dunn, P. J. “Protocols for Scientists on the Deposition of
Investigated Mineral Specimens." American Mineralogist. 73
(1988): 1480.
. "Protocols for Scientists on the Deposition of Investigated
Mineral Specimens." Mineralogical Record. 19 (1988): 291.
Dunn, P. J. “Protocols for Scientists on the Deposition of
Investigated Mineral Specimens." Mineralogy and Petrology. 38
(1988): 299-300.
. "Protocols for Scientists on the Deposition of Investigated
Mineral Specimens." Canadian Mineralogist. 27 (1989): 157.
"Protocols for Scientists on the Deposition of Investigated
Mineral Specimens." Mineralogical Magazine. 53 (1989): 131.
Dunn, P. J.; Francis, C. A.; and Innes, J. "A Mcgovernite-like Mineral and Leucophoenicite from the Kombat Mine, Namibia." American Mineralogist. 73 (1988): 1182-1185.
Dunn, P. J.; Grice, J. D.; and Bideaux, R. A. "Pinalite, a New Lead Tungsten Chloride Mineral from the Mammoth Mine, Pinal County, Arizona." American Mineralogist. 74: 934-935.
Dunn, P. J.; Grice, J. D.; amd Metropolis, W. C. "Zodacite, the Mn Analogue of Montgomeryite, from Mangualde, Portugal." American Mineralogist. 73 (1988): 1179-1181.
Dunn, P. J.; Grice, J. D.; Wicks, F. J.; and Gault, R. A. "Paulkellerite, a New Bismuth Iron Phosphate Mineral from
, Germany." American Mineralogist. 73 (1988):
870-872.
Dunn, P. J., and Mandarino, J. A. "The Preservation of Type Mineral Specimens." Mineralogical Record. 19 (1988): 226-227.
"The Commission on New Minerals and Mineral Names of the International Mineralogical Association: Its History, Purpose, and General Practice." Mineralogical Record. 19 (1988): SII9=323'.
Fiske, R. S. "Volcanoes and Society Challenges of Coexistence." Proceedings Kagoshima International Conference on Volcanoes. (1988): 14-21.
Fiske, R. S., amd Cashman, K. V. "Submarine Fallout Deposit in the Shirahama (Mio-Pliocene), Japan." (abs.) New Mexico Bureau of Mines & Mineral Resource Bulletin. (IAVCEI General Assembly) 131 (1989): 92.
Fredriksson, K. “Composition of Chondrules and Parent Materials."
(abs.) 19th Inmar and Planetetary Science Conference. (1988): 352—353).
Ww we 1)

<<<Page: 237>>>

Fredriksson, K., amd Kerridge, J. F. "Carbonates and Sulfates in Cl Chondrites: Formation by Aqueous Activity on the Parent Body." Meteoritics. 23 (1988): 35-44.
Fredriksson, K., and Wlotzka, F. "Experiments with a Leitz 1750 Degree C Heating Stage." (abs.) Meteoritics. 23 (3) (1988):
269.
Fudali, R. F. “Effects of Quench Methods on Fe3+/Fe2+ Ratios: Discussion." American Mineralogist. 23 (1988): 1478.
Fodali, R. F., and Schutt, J. W. "The Field Season in Victoria Land, 1983-1984." Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences. 28 (1989): 23-27.
Funk, V. A., and Melson, W. G. "Volcanological and Biological Observatory at Arenal Volcano (Alajuela Province, Costa Rica)." Biotropica 21 (1)(1989): 95-96.
Jarosewich, E. “Chemical Composition of Antarctic and Non-Antarctic Meteorites: a Comparison." Abstracts for the Workshop on Differences Between Antarctic and Non-Antarctic Meteorites. (TOSS 27 =29'.
Kampf, A, R.; Dunn, P. J.; and Foord, E. E. “"Grandreefite, Pseudograndreefite, Laurelite, and Aravaipaite: Four New Minerals from the Grand Reef Mine, Graham County, Arizona." American Mineralogist. 74 (1989): 927-933.
Koeberl, C.; Fredriksson, K.; Gotzinger, M.; and Reimold, W. U. "Anomalous Quartz from the Roter Kamm Impact Crater, Namibia: Evidence for Post-impact Hydrothermal Activity?" Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta. 53 (1989): 2113-2118.
MacPherson, G. M., and Grossman, J. N. "Scanning Eelectron Microscopy of Chondritic Meteorites: Evidence for Condensation and Aggregation Processes During the Birth of the Solar System." Scanning Microscopy. 3 (1989): 83-87.
MacPherson, G. M.; Crozaz, G.; and Lundberg, L. L. "The Evolution of a Complex Type B Allende Inclusion: An Ion Microprobe Trace Element Study." Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta. 53 (1989): 2413-2427.
McClelland, L.; Simkin, T.; Summers, M.; Nielsen, E.; amd Stein,
T. C. Global Volcanism 1975-1985: The First Decade of Reports from the Smithsonian Institution's Scientific Event Alert Network (SEAN). New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1989, 657 pages.
Melson, W. G. “National Collection of Rocks and Ores" in Collections for the Future: Archivists, Curators, Historians Bibliographers Speak. 18 (1988): 26-36.
Melson, W. G.; O'Hearn, T.; and Fredriksson, K. "Composition and Origin of Basaltic Glass Spherules in Pelagic Clay from the Eastern Pacific." Marine Geology. 83 (1988): 253-271.
Melson, W. G.; Saenz, R.; Barquero, J.; amd Fernandez, E. "Edad Relativo de las Erupcioens del Cerro Congo y Laguna Hule." Boletin de Vulcanologia. 19 (1988): 8-10.
Morris, D. B.} Asmar’? NeGes" Nickel os "Hoe Sid Ro es Wei DaeVenLs > and Post, J. E. "Stability of 124, 123, and 247 Superconductors." Physica C 159 (1989): 287-294.

<<<Page: 238>>>

Morris, D. E.; Nickel, J. H.; Wei, J. Y. T.; Asmar, N. G.; Scott,
J. S.; Scheven, U. M.; Hultgren, C. T.; Markelz, A. G.; Post, J. E.; Heaney, P. J.; Veblen, D. R.; and Hazen, R. M. "Eight New High-temperature Superconductors with the 1:2:4 Structure." Physical Rev. B. 39 (1989): 7347-7350.
Olsen, E. J.; Fredriksson, K.; and Rajan, S. "Investigating the C.I.A." (abs.) 19th Iunar and Planetary Science Conference (1988): 891-892.
Olsen, E. J.; Huss, G. I.; and Jarosewich, E. "The Eagle, Nebraska Enstatite Chondrite (EIé)." Meteoritics. 23 (1988): 379-380.
Peacor, D. R., and Dunn, P. J. “"Dollaseite-(Ce) (Magnesium Orthite Redefined): Structure Refinement and Implications for F + M2+ Substitutions in Epidote Group Minerals." American Mineralogist. 73 (1988): 838-842.
Peacor, D. R.; Dunn, P. J.; Simmons, W. B.; Wicks, F. J.; and Raudsepp, M. "Maricopaite, a New Hydrated Ca-Pb, Zeolite-like Silicate from Arizona." Canadian Mineralogist. 26 (1988): 309=313..
Peacor, D. R.; Sarp, H.; Dunn, P. J.; and Nelen, J. A. "Defernite from the Kombat Mine, Namibia: a Ssecond Oocccurrence, Structure Refinement, and Crystal Chemistry." American Mineralogist. 73 (1988): 888-893.
Post, J. E. "Rietveld Refinement of the Akaganeite Structure, Using Powder Diffraction Data." Geological Society of America Abstracts. 20 (1988): A102.
Post, J. E., and Appleman, D. E. "Chalcophanite, ZnMn307.3H20: New Crystal-structure Determinations." American Mineralogist. 73 (1988): 1401-1404.
Post, J. E., amd Bish, D. L. "Rietveld Refinement of the Coronadite Structure." American Mineralogist. 74 (1989): 913-917.
Post, J. E., and Ross, D. R. "Rietveld Refinements of Two Coexisting Ramsdellite Phases." EOS. 70 (1989).
Roberts, A. C., and Dunn, P. J. "Mineralogical Data for a New, Unnamed Arsenate from the Langban Mine." Geologiska Foreningens Forhandlingar Stockholm. 110 (1988): 181-182.
Roberts, A. C.; Dunn, P. J.; Grice, J. D.; Newbury, D. E.; and Roberts, W. L. "The X-ray Crystallography of Tavorite from the Tip Top Pegmatite, Custer, South Dakota." Powder Diffraction. 3 (1988): 93-95.
Siebert, L.; Glicken, H.; and Kienle, J. "Debris Avalanches,
Lateral Blasts, and Tsunamis: Volcanic Hazards at Mount St. Augustine, Alaska." Proceedings Kagoshima International Conference on Volcanoes. (1988): 452-455.
Siebert, L.; Glicken, H.; and Kienle, J. "Debris Avalanches and lateral Blasts at Mount St. Augustine Volcano, Alaska." National Geographic Research. 5 (2) (1989): 232-249.
Simkin, T. "Terrestrial Volcanic Eruptions in Time and Space."
Proceedings Kagoshima International Conference on Volcanoes.
(1988): 412-415.
Review of Volcanic Hazards by John H. Latter (New York:
Springer-Verlag, 1989) in Science Magazine 245 (July 1989):
83-84.
w ww

<<<Page: 239>>>

Simkin, T.; Tilling, R. I.; Taggart, J. N.; Jones, W. J.; and Spall,
H. This Dynamic Planet: World Map of Volcanoes, Earthquakes, and Plate Tectonics. Reston, Virginia: U. S. Geological Survey, 1989.
Sorensen, S. S. "Petrology of Amphibolite-facies Mafic and Ultramafic
Rocks from the Catalina Schist, Southern California: Metasomatism
and Migmatization in a Subduction Zone Metamorphic Setting."
Journal of Metamorphic Geology. 6 (1988): 405-435.
. "“Tectonometamorphic Significance of the Basement Rocks of the
Los Angeles Basin and the California Continental Borderland" in
Metamorphism and Crustal Evolution of the Westerm United States,
ed. by W. G. Ernst (1988): 998-1022.
"etasomatism and Migmatization of Garnet Amphibolites and Related Rocks, Catalina Schist, California: Petrologic and Geochemical Evidence for Fluid-mediated Mass Transfer During Early Stages of Subduction." Terra Abstracts 1, Third International Eclogite Conference (1989): 22.
Sorensen, S. S., amd Grossman, J. N. "Constraints on Metasomatism and Partial Melting from Petrogenetic Modelling of Rare Earth Elements: a Case Study from the Catalina Schist, Souther California." Geological Society of America Abstracts. 20 (1988): A304.
Tamura, Y.; Koyama, M.; and Fiske, R. S. "Hot Pyroclastic Debris Flow in the Shallow Submarine Shirahama Group (Mio-Pliocene), Japan." (abs.) New Mexico Bureau of Mines & Mineral Resource Bulletin (IAVCEI General Assembly). 131 (1989): 265.
Walenta, K., amd Dunn, P. J. "Ein Richelsdorfitahnliches Mineral von der Grube Clara." Der Erzqraber. 2 (2) (1988): 97-103.
White, J. S. "Why Colored Diamonds Are, Paradoxically, Undervalued
and Often Overpriced." Jewel. 1 (1988): 61-62.
"In Memoriam: Dean A. McCrillis." Rocks & Minerals 64
(1989): 418.
White, J. S., and Conklin, L. H. "Aesthetik und Wettbewerb-sammeln und Sammler in Amerika und Europa, ein Vergleich." Munich Show Catalog. (1988): 44-47.
Wise, M. A., and Cerny, P. "Pegmatite Deposits of the Northwest Territories: Aylmer Lake-—Mackay Lake and Chantrey Inlet Pegmatite Fields." (abs.) in Exploration Overview, N.W.T. (1988): 62.
Zuber, M.; James, O.; MacPherson, G.; and Plescia, J. (editors).
Planetary Geosciences-1988. Washington, D. C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1989.
Department of Paleobiology
Adey, W. H. "On National Parks Conservation, Education, or Recreation? A Role for Synthetic Ecology." Courier 34 (2) (1989): 8-11. , editor. The Biology, Ecology, and Mariculture of Mithrax
Spinosissimus Based on Cultured Algal Turfs. Los Angeles: Mariculture Institute, (1989): 250 pages.

<<<Page: 240>>>

Adey, W. H., and Hackney, J. M. "Harvest Production of Coral Reef
Algal Turfs.".-In The Biology, Ecology, and Mariculture ofMithrax spinosissimis Based on Cultured Algal Turfs (1989): Section I: 1-135. Edited by W. H. Adey. Los Angeles: Mariculture Institute.
Behrensmeyer, A. K. "The Pull of the Recent Analogue." PALATOS 3 (4) (1988): 373.
Benson, R. H. “Ostracods and Palaeoceanography." In Ostracoda in the Earth Sciences (1988): 1-26. Edited by J.-P. Colin and J.-P. Peypouquet. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Science Publishers, B. V.
Berdan, J. M. "Middle Ordovician (Whitrockian) Palaeocopid and Podocopid Ostracodes from the Ibex Area, Millard County, Western Utah." New Mexico Bureau of Mines and Mineral Resources Memoir 44 (1988): 273-301.
. “Mechanical Extraction of Microfossils." In Paleotechniques; The Paleontological Society Special Publication Number 4 (1989): 99-100. Edited by R. M. Feldmann, R. E. Chapman, and J. T. Hannibal. Knoxville, Tennessee: Department of Geological Sciences, The University of Tennessee.
Berta, A.; Ray, C. E.; and Wyss, A. R. "Skeleton of the Oldest Known Pinniped, Enaliarctos mealsi." Science 244 (4900) (1989): 60-62.
Burke, R. B.; Adey, W. H.; and Macintyre, I. G. "Overview of the Holocene History, Architecture, and Structural Components of the Teague Reef and Lagoon Based on Cores." In Terrestrial and
Marine Geology of St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands, West Indies
Laboratory Special Publication Number 8 (1989): 105-109. Edited by D. K. Hubbard. Teague Bay, St. Croix: West Indies Laboratory.
Buzas, M. A. "The Effect of Quartz Versus Calcareous Sand on the Densities of Living Foraminifera." Micropaleontology 35 (2) (1989): 135-141.
Buzas, M. A., amd Culver, S. J. “Biogeographic and Evolutionary Patterns of Continental Margin Benthic Foraminifera. "Paleobiology 15 (1)(1989): 11-19.
Buzas, M. A.; Collins, L. S.; Richardson, S. L.; and Severin, kK. P. "Experiments on Predation, Substrate Preference, and Colonization of Benthic Foraminifera at the Shelfbreak off the Ft. Pierce Inlet, Florida." Journal of Foraminiferal Research 19 (2) (1989): 146-152.
DiMichele, W. A., and Nelson, W. J. "Small-scale Heterogeneity in Pennsylvanian-age Vegetation from the Roof Shale of the Springfield Coal (Illinois Basin)." PALATOS 4 (3) (1989): 276280.
DiMichele, W. A., and Phillips, T. L. "Paleocecology of the Middle Pennsylvanian-age Herrin Coal Swamp near a Contemporaneous River System, the Walshville Paleochannel." Review of Palaeobotany and Palynology 56 (1/2) (1988): 151-176.
DiMichele, W. A.; Burnham, R. J.; and Sues, H.-D. Review of "Origins of Angiosperms and their Biological Consequences." Edited by E. M. Friis, W. G. Chaloner, amd P. R. Crane. PALATOS 3 (4) (1988): 449-452.

<<<Page: 241>>>

DiMichele, W. A.; Davis, J. I.; and Olmstead, R. G. "Origins of Heterospory and the Seed Habit." Taxon 38 (1) (1989): 1-11.
Fauchald, K.; Sturmer, W.; and Yochelson, E. L. "Two Worm-like Organisms from the Hunsriuck Slate (Lower) Devonian, Southern Germany. Palaeontologische Zeitschrift 62 (3/4) (1988): 205-215.
Foucault, A., and Stanley, D. J. "Late Quaternary Palaeoclimatic Oscillations in East Africa Recorded by Heavy Minerals in the Nile Delta." Nature 339 (6219) (1989): 44-46.
Grant, R. E. "The Family Cardiarinidae (Late Paleozoic Rhynchonellid Brachiopoda)." Frankfurt am Main Senckenbergiana Lethaea 69 (1/2) (1988) : 1 2T=13'5'5
Graus, R. R., and Macintyre, I. G. "The Zonation Patterns of Caribbean Coral Reefs as Controlled by Wave and Light Energy Input, Bathymetric Setting and Reef Morphology: Computer Simulation Experiments." Coral Reefs 8 (1) (1989): 9-18.
Hackney, J. M.; Carpenter, R. C.; and Adey, W. H. Characteristic Adaptations to Grazing Among Algal Turf on a Caribbean Coral Reef." Phycologia 28 (1) (1989): 109-119.
Hatcher, Jr., R. D.; Larson, K. W.; and Neuman, R. B. "Western Great Smoky Mountains Window: The Foothills Duplex." In Southem Appalachian Windows: Comparison of Styles, Scales, Geometry, and Detachment Levels of Thrust Faults in the Foreland and Internides of a Thrust-dominated Orogen: International Geological Congress
28th (Washington, D. C.) Field Trip T167 Guidebook (1989): 49-60. Edited by R. D. Hatcher, Jr., and W. A. Thomas. Washington, D.
C.: American Geophysical Union.
Hodell, D. A.; Benson, R. H.; Kennett, J. P.; and Bied, K. R. "Stable Isotope Stratigraphy of Latest Miocene Sequences in Northwest Morocco: The Bou Regreg Section." Paleoceanography 4 (4) (1989): 467-482.
Houbrick, R. S.; Sturmer, W.; and Yochelson, E. L. "Rare Mollusca from the Lower Devonian Hunsruck Slate of Southern Germany." Lethaia 21 (4) (1988): 395-402.
Hubbard, T. K.; Zenger, L.; Parsons, C.; amd Stanley, D. J. "Geologic Development of the West End Terrace System of St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands." In Terrestrial and Marine Geology of St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands; West Indies Laboratory Special Publication Number 8 (1989): 73-83. Edited by D. K. Hubbard. Teague Bay, St. Croix: West Indies Laboratory.
Huber, B. T. "Upper Campanian-Paleocene Foraminifera from the James Ross Island Region (Antarctic Peninsula)." In Geology and Paleontology of Seymour Island, Antarctic Peninsula, Geological Society of America Memoir Series Number 169 (1988): 163-252. Edited by R. M. Feldmann and M. O. Woodburne. Denver, Colorado: The Geological Society of America.
Hueber, F. M., and Watson, J. “The Unusual Upper Cretaceous Conifer Androvettia from Eastern U. S. A." Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society 98 (2) (1988): 117-133.
Labandeira, C. C.; Beall, B. S.; and Hueber, F. M. "Early Insect Diversification: Evidence from a Lower Devonian Bristletail from Québec." Science 242 (4880)(1988): 913-916.
Linsley, R. M.; Mapes, R. H.; Wang Hui-ji; and Yochelson, E. L. "Some New Paleozoic Gastropod Opercula (Pennsylvanian: Texas): Journal of Paleontology 63 (2)(1989): 206-211.

<<<Page: 242>>>

Macintyre, I. G. "Modern Coral Reefs of Western Atlantic: New Geological Perspective." The American Association of Petroleum Geologists Bulletin 72 (11) (1988): 1360-1369.
Mamay, S. H. "Evolsonia, a New Genus of Gigantoptericaceae from the Lower Permian Vale Formation, North-Central Texas." American Journal of Botany 76 (9) (1989): 1299-1311.
McDonald, J. N., and Ray, C. E. "The Autochthonous North American Musk Oxen Bootherium, Symbos, and Gidleya (Mammalia: Artiodactyla: Bovidae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology Number 66. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 77 pages.
Morgan, G. S.; Linares, O. J.; amd Ray, C. E. "New Species of Fossil Vampire Bats (Mammalia: Chiroptera: Desmodontidae) from Florida and Venezuela." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 101 (4) (1988): 912-928.
Neuman, R. B., and Bruton, D. L. "Geologic Setting of the Lower Hovin Group (Arenig/Llanvirn) HQlonda Area, SQr TrQndelag, Norway." Academy of Sciences of the Estonian SSR Proceedings 38 (2) (1989): 13-76.
Neuman, R. B., and Max, M. D. "Penobscottian-Grampian-Finnmarkian Orogenies as Indicators of Terrane Linkages." In Terranes in the Circumatlantic Orogens; Geological Society of America Special Paper 230 (1989): 31-45. Edited by R. D. Dallmeyer. Boulder, Colorado: Geological Society of America.
Pimmel, A., and Stanley, D. J. "Verdinized Fecal Pellets as Indicators of Prodelta and Delta-front Deposits in the Nile Delta, Egypt." Marine Geology 86 (4) (1989): 339-347.
Ray, C. E. Review of "A Short History of Vertebrate Paleontology," by E. Buffetaut. Earth Sciences History 7 (2) (1988): 162.
Sohn, I. G. "Early Mississippian (Tournaisian) Ostracodes from the
Lisburne Test Well, Northeastern Alaska." U.S. Geological Survey
Professional Paper 1399 (1988): 687-690.
"Darwinulocopina (Crustacea: Podocopa), a New Suborder Proposed for Nonmarine Paleozoic to Holocene Ostracoda." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington: 101 (4) (1988): 817-824.
Stanley, D. J. "Low Sediment Accumulation Rates and Erosion on the
Middle and Outer Nile Delta Shelf off Egypt." Marine Geology 84
(1/2) (1988): 111-117.
. Review of "The Ocean of Truth, A Personal History of Global
Tectonics," by H. W. Menard. Earth Sciences History 7 (2) (1988):
162=163).
"Sedimentology and Paleogeography of Upper Cretaceous Rocks, St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands: New Interpretations." In Terrestrial and Marine Geology of St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands,
West Indies Laboratory Special Publication Number 8 (1989): 3747. Edited by D. K. Hubbard. Teague Bay, St. Croix: West
Indies Laboratory.
Tuross, N. C.; Behrensmeyer, A. K.; Eanes, E. D.; Fisher, L. W.; and Hare, P. E. "Molecular Preservation and Crystallographic Alterations in a Weathering Sequence of Wildebeest Bones." Applied Geochemistry 4 (3) (1989): 261-270.
Whitmore, F. C., Jr. Review of "An American Topographer," by G. S. Druhot. Earth Science History 7 (2) (1988): 160.

<<<Page: 243>>>

Whitmore, F. C., Jr., scientific editor. English translation of "Fossil Cetacea of the Caucasus," by G. A. Mchedlidze. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press and National Science Foundation, 124 pages.
Yochelson, E. L. “A New Genus of Patellacea from the Middle Ordovician of Utah; Oldest-known Example of the Superfamily to Date." New Mexico Bureau of Mines Memoir 44 (1988): 195-200.
Yochelson, E. L. "The Lives and Time of Curt Teichert." Frankfurt am Main Senkenbergiana Lethaea 69 (1/2) (1988): 2-9.
Department of Vertebrate Zoology
Alcala, Angel C.; Ross, Charles A.; and Alcala, E. L. "Observations on Reproduction and Behavior of Captive Philippine Crocodiles (Crocodylus mindorensis Schmidt). Silliman Journal 34 (1988): 18-28.
Balouet, Jean Christophe, and Olson, Storrs L. "Fossil Birds from Late Quaternary Deposits in New Caledonia." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 469 (10 January 1989): 1-38.
Banks, Richard C. "Obsolete English Names of North American Birds and Their Modern Equivalents." Fish and Wildlife Service, Resource Publication 174 (1988): 37 pages.
Grants, Awards, and Prizes in Omithology. Second Edition. American Ornithologists' Union, Washington, D.C. (1989): 115 pages.
(Review of) "Speciation and Geographic Variation in Black-
tailed Gnatcatchers." Wilson Bulletin 101 (1989): 360-362.
“Supposed Northern Records of the Southern Fulmar." Wester
Birds 19 (1989): 121-124. .
Beehler, Bruce M. "Patterns of Frugivory and the Evolution of Birds of Paradise." Acta XIX Congressus Internationalis Ornithologici (1989): 816-826.
Braun, M. J.; Lahn, S.; Boyd, A. L.; Kost, T. T.; Nagashima K.; and Gonda, M. A. "Molecular Cloning of Biologically Active Proviruses of Bovine Immmodeficiency-like Virus. Virology 167 (1988): 575-523.
Brownell, R. L., and Mead, J. G. " Taxonomic Status of the Delphinid (Mammalia: Cetacea) Tursiops panope Philippi, 1895. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 532-534.
Browning, M. Ralph. " A New Subspecies of Carpodacus roseus. Bulletin
of the British Ormithologists' Club 108 (4)(1988): 177-179.
"The Correct Name for the Olivaceous Cormorant, 'Maiague' of
Piso (1658)." Wilson Bulletin 101 (1989): 101-106.
"The Type Specimens of Hekstra's Owls." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 515-519.
Carleton, M. D. "Systematics and Evolution." In Advances in the Study of Peromyscus (Rodentia). Edited by D. L. Kirkland and J. Layne. Texas Tech University Press, Lubbock, 367 pp. (1989): 7-141.
Clapp, R. B. "A Black-headed Grosbeak Specimen from Virginia." Raven
57 (1986) : 1-3.
"A Specimen Record of the Fork-tailed Swift from the Marshall
Islands." Elepaio 49 (1): 1-2.

<<<Page: 244>>>

Clapp, R. B. "First Record of the Little Tern, Sterna albifrons, from Hawaii." Elepaio 49 (7) (1989): 41-46.
Crombie, Ronald I., and Steadman, David W. "The Lizards of Rarotonga and Mangaia, Cook Island Group, Oceania." Pacific Science. (1986), 40 (1-4) (August 1988).
Emmons, L. H. "Jaguar Predation on Chelonians." Journal of
Herpetology 23 (1989): 311-314.
. “Tropical Rain Forests: Why They Have So Many Species and How
We May Lose this Biodiversity without Cutting a Single Tree." Orion Nature Quarterly (July 1989): 8-14. (Popular).
Engbring, John, and Fritts, Thomas H. "Demise of an Insular Avifauna: The Brown Tree Snake on Guam." Transactions of the Western Section Wildlife Society 24 (1988): 34-37.
Foster, M. S. “Preliminary Field Report." In Cerro de la Neblina Resultados de_la Expedicion 1983-1987. Edited by C. BrewerCarias. Editorial Sucre, Caracas, Venezuela. (1988). 922pp.
Fritts, Thomas H. "The Brown Tree Snake, A Harmful Pest Species." U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service leaflet.
(1988) . . “The Brown Tree Snake, irregularis, A Threat to Pacific Tslandse i WaS's Soeeeaaiy, pe the Interior, Fish and Wildlife
Service Biological Report 88 (31) (September 1988): 36 + vi pp.
Fritts, Thomas H.; Scott, N. J., Jr.; and Smith, B. E. "Trapping Boiaa
irregqularis on Guam Using Bird Odors." Journal of Herpetology 23 (2) (1989): 189-192.
Fuchs, Karlheinz H. P.; Ross, Charles A.; Pooley, A. C.; and Whitaker, Romulus. "Crocodile Skin Products." In Crocodiles and Alligators. Edited by Charles A. Ross et al. Golden Press Pty. Ltd., Silverwater, Australia. (1989): 188-195.
Gardner, A. L. "The Mammals of Parque Nacional Serrania de la Neblina, Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela. In Cerro de la Neblina Resultados de la Expedicion 1983-1987. Edited by C. BrewerCarias. Editorial Sucre, Caracas. (1988): viii + 922 pp.
Gardner, A. L., and Creighton, G. K. "A New Generic Name for Tate's (1933) Microtarsus Group of South American Mouse Opossums (Marsupialia: Didelphidae). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (1)(1989): 3-7.
Graves, G. R. "Phylloscartes lanyoni, a New Species of Bristle-tyrant (Tyrannidae) from the Lower Cauca Valley of Colombia." Wilson Bulletin 100 (1988): 529-534.
"Trans-Andean Population of the Large-headed Flatbill ~ Ramphotrigon megacephala." Bulletin of the British Ormnithologists' Club 108 (1988): 186-187.
Graves, G. R., amd Restrepo, D. Uribe. "A New Allopatric Taxon in the Hapalopsittaca amazonina (Psittacidae) Superspecies from Colombia." Wilson Bulletin 101 (3) (1989): 369-376.
Handley, C. 0., Jr. "Christmas Bird Count: Lewisburg, West Virginia (1987) ." American Birds 42 (4) (1988): 9829.
. "Calipers." In The Guild Handbook of Scientific Illustration. Edited by E. R. S. Hodges. Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York. (November 1988): p. 37, Figures 2-19.

<<<Page: 245>>>

Handley, C. O., Jr. “Illustrating Mammals." In The Guild Handbook of Scientific Illustration. Edited by E. R. S. Hodges. Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York. (November 1988): 357-376, 554-555, frontispiece and 28 figures.
. Reviews of: Ecological and Behavioral Methods for the Study of Bats, edited by T. H. Kunz, Smithsonian Institution Press; America's Neighborhood Bats, by M. D. Tuttle, University of Texas Press. (1989). In Naturalist Review (Audubon Naturalist Society of the Central Atlantic States) (Spring 1989): 1.
Heyer, W. Ronald. "On Frog Distribution Patterns East of the Andes." In Proceedings of a Workshop on Neotropical Distribution Patterms Held 12-16 January 1987. Edited by P. E. Vanzolini amd W. R. Heyer. Academia Brasileira de Ciéncias, Rio de Janeiro. (1988): 245-273.
Heyer, W. Ronald; Rand, A. Stanley; Cruz, Carlos Alberto Goncalvez da; and Peixoto, Oswaldo L. "Decimations, Extinctions, and Colonizations of Frog Populations in Southeast Brazil and their Evolutionary Consequences." Biotropica 20 (3)(1988): 230-235.
Heyer, W. Ronald, and Vanzolini, P. E. “Introduction and Summary of a Workshop on Neotropical Distribution Patterns held 12-16 January 1987." In Proceedings of a Workshop on Neotropical Distribution Patterns Held 12-16 January 1987. Edited by P. E. Vanzolini and W. Ronald Heyer. Academia Brasileira de Ciéncias, Rio de Janeiro. (1988): 7-18.
Heyer, W. Ronald., and Wolf, Alan J. "Physalaemus crombiei (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae), a New Frog Species from Espirito Santo, Brazil with Comments on the P. signifer group." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 500-506.
Houde, P., and M. J. Braun. "Museum Collections as a Source of DNA for Studies of Avian Phylogeny." Auk 105 (1988): 773-776.
Houde, Peter, and Storrs L. Olson. "Small Arboreal Non-Passerine Birds from the Early Tertiary of Western North America." Acta XTXth Congressus Internationalis Ornithologici, volume 2 (for 1988): 2030-2036 (April 1989).
Howe, J. C. “Oxygen Consumption Rate in Juvenile Scalloped Hammerhead Sharks (Sphyrna lewini) (Griffith and Smith): A Preliminary Study". Journal of Aquariculture and Aquatic Sciences 5 (2) (1988): 28-31.
Iverson, J. B.; Ernst, C. H.; Gotte, S. W.; and Lovich, J. E. "The Validity of Chinemys megalocephala (Testudines: Batagurinae). Copeia (2) (1989): 494-498.
James, Helen F.; Zusi, Richard L.; and Olson, Storrs L. "Dysmorodrepanis munroi (Fringillidae: Drepanidini), a Valid Genus and Species of Hawaiian Finch." Wilson Bulletin 101 (2) (June 1989): 159-179.
Keener, P.; Johnson, G. D.; Stender, B. W.; Brothers, E. B.; and Beatty, H. R. "Ingress of Postlarval Gag, Mycteroperca microlepis (Pisces: Serranidae), through a South Carolina Barrier Island Inlet." Bulletin of Marine Science 42 (3) (1988): 376-396.

<<<Page: 246>>>

Lindberg, G. U.,-and Krasyukova, Z. B. Fishes of the Sea of Japan and the Adjacent Areas of the Sea of Okhotsk and the Yellow Sea.
Part 4. Teleostomi XXIX. Perciformes 2. Blennioidei 13. Gobioidei. Foreward to the English Edition by Bruce B. Collette. Scientific Editor, Bruce B. Collette. Smithsonian Institution Libraries and The National Science Foundation, NTIS TT-81-52179. pp. 1-602.
McDiarmid, R. W., and Gorzula, Stefan. "Aspects of the Reproductive Ecology and Behavior of the Tepui Toads, Genus Oreophrynella (Anura: Bufonidae). Copeia (2) (1989): 445-451.
McDiarmid, R. W.; Paolillo, O.; and Cocroft, R. B. Preliminary field report herpetology. "Amphibians and Reptiles from Cerro de la Neblina." In Cerro de la Neblina, Resultados de las Expedicion 1983-1987. Edited by Brewer-Carias. Editorial Sucre, Caracas, Venezuela. (1988): 665-670.
McLellan, W. A. "Strandings: A Glimpse into the Lives of Marine Mammals." Whale Watcher, Journal of the American Cetacean Society 23 (2) (1989): 10-12.
Mead, J. G. "Shepherd's Beaked Whale Tasmacetus shepherdi Oliver,
1937." In Handbook of Marine Mammals, volume 4, River dolphins
and the larger toothed whales. Edited by S. H. Ridgway and R.
Harrison. Academic Press, London. (1989): 309-320.
"Bottlenose Whales Hyperoodon ampullatus (Forster, 1770) and Hyperoodon planifrons Flower, 1882." In Handbook of Marine Mammals, volume 4, River dolphins and the larger toothed whales. Edited by S. H. Ridgway and R. Harrison. Academic Press, London. (1989): 321-348.
"Beaked whales of the genus Mesoplodon." In Handbook of Marine Mammals, volume 4, River dolphins and the larger toothed whales. Edited by S. H. Ridgway and R. Harrison. Academic Press, London. (1989): 349-430.
Medieros, Arthur C.; Loope, Lloyd L.; and James, Helen F. "Caves, Bird Bones and Beetles: New Discoveries in Rain Forests of Haleakala." Park Science 9 (2) (1989): 20-21.
Mitchell, Joseph C., and Zug, George R. "Ecological Observations on the Gecko Hemidactylus brookii in Nepal. Amphibia-Reptilia 9 (1989): 405-413.
Mooi, R.; Cannell, P. F.; Funk, V. A.; Mabee, P. M.; O'Grady, R. T.; and Starr, C. K. "Historical Perspectives, Ecology, and Tiger Beetles: An Alternative Discussion." Systematic Zoology 38 (2) (1989): 191-195.
Munroe, T. A. amd Mahadeva, M. N. "Symphurus callopterus (Cynoglossidae, Pleuronectiformes), a New Deepwater Tonguefish from the Eastern Pacific." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 458-467.
Olson, Storrs L. “Aspects of Global Avifaunal Dynamics During the Cenozoic." Acta XIxXth Congressus Internationalis Ormithologici, volume 2 (for 1988): 2023-2029 (April 1989)
. “Extinction on Islands: Man as a Catastrophe." In Conservation Biology for the Next Century. Edited by D. Western and M. Pearl. New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press. (July 1989): 50-53.
“David Douglas and the Original Description of the Hawaiian Goose." Elepaio 49 (8) (August 1989): 49-81.

<<<Page: 247>>>

Olson, Storrs L.; Balouet, Jean Christophe; and Fisher, C. T. "The Owlet-nightjar of New Caledonia, Aegotheles savesi, with Comments on the Systematics of the Aegothelidae." Gerfaut 77 (for 1987): 341-352 (March 1989).
Olson, Storrs L., and James, Helen F. "Fragile Outposts " In Lords of the Air, by Jake Page and Eugene S. Morton. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Books. (1989): 110nl ay
Olson, Storrs L., and Kurochkin, E. N. . “Introduction: Symposium 35: The Early Radiation of Birds." Acta XIXth Congressus Internationalis Ornithologici, volume 2 (for 1988): 2022 (April 1989).
Ota, Hidetoshi; Crombie, Ronald I.; Ine, Kuang-Yang; and Chen, ShyhHwang. "A Record of Gekko hokouensis (Reptilia: Sauria) from Lanyu Island, Taiwan, with Notes on Its Variation." Journal of Taiwan Museum 41 (1) (June 1988): 7-14.
Pagels, J. F., amd Hardley, Jr., C. 0. "Distribution of the Southeastern Shrew Sorex longirostris Bachman, in Western Virginia." Brimleyanna 15 (1989): 123-131, 2 figures.
Porter, Calvin A.; Crombie, Ronald I.; and Baker, Robert J.
"Karyotypes of Five Species of Cuban Lizards." Occasional Papers, The Museum, Texas Tech University 130 (5 September 1989). «Texas Tech University Press, Lubbock, Texas.
Pooley, A. C., and Ross, Charles A. "Mortality and Predators." In Crocodiles and Alligators. Edited by Charles A. Ross et al. Golden Press Pty. Ltd., Silverwater, Australia. (1989): 92-101.
Randall, J. E.; Johnson, G. D.; and Lowe, G. R. "Triso, a New Generic Name for the Antitropical, Western Pacific Serranid Fish Previously Known As Trisotropis dermopterus, with Comments on Its Relationships." Japanese Journal of Ichthyology 35 (4) (1989): 414-420.
Ripley, S. Dillon. "If I Could Build My Own Museum." Symposium
Proceedings of the Chicago Academy of Sciences (1988): 201-212.
"In Memoriam: Salim Ali." The Auk 105 (1988): 772. "First Salim Ali Memorial Lecture." American Embassy New Delhi Publication (1988): 20 pp. . "In Memoriam: Yoshimaro Yamashina, 1900-1989)." The Auk 106 (4) (1989): 1802.
Ripley, S. Dillon, and Beehler, Bruce M. "Ormithogeographic Affinities of the Adaman and Nicobar Islands." Journal of Biogeography 16 (1989): .323-332.
Ripley, S. Dillon; Beehler, Bruce M.; and Krishna Raju, K. S. R. "Birds of the Visakhapatnam Ghats, Andhra Pradesh -2." Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 85 (3) (1988).: 90-107.
Roberts, C. D. "A Revision of New Zealand and Australian Orange Perches (Teleostei: Serranidae) Previously Referred to Lepidoperca Chella (Waite) with Description of a New Species of Lepidoperca from New Zealand. Journal of Natural History 23 (1989): 557-589.
Ross, Charles A. "Weights of Some New Caledonian Birds." Bulletin of
the British Ornithologists' Club 108 (2)(1988): 91-93.
"Probable Introduction of Lygosoma bowringi in Zamboanga City,
Philippines. Herpetology Review 20 (1) (1989): 6.

<<<Page: 248>>>

Ross, Charles A.; Alcala, Angel C.; amd Sison, Rogelio V. "Distribution of Zaocys luzonensis (Serpentes: Colubridae) in the Visayan Islands, Philippines." Silliman Journal 34 (1-4) (1987) fasssit 29-31.
Ross, Charles A.; Blake, D. K.; and Victor, J. T. “Onions. Farming and Ranching." In Crocodiles and Alligators. Edited by Charles A. Ross et al. Golden Press Pty. Ltd., Silverwater, Australia. (1989): 202-213.
Ross, Charles A.; Garnett, S.; and Pyrzkkowshi, R. (Editors). Crocodiles and Alligators. Golden Press Pty. Ltd., Silverwater, Australia. (1989): 240 pp.
Ross, Charles A., and Magnusson, William Ernest. "Living Crocodilians." In Crocodiles and Alligators. Edited by Charles A. Ross at al. Golden Press Pty. Ltd., Silverwater, Australia. (1989): 58-73.
Schwartz, Albert, and Jacobs, Jeremy F. "A New Subspecies of Celestus costatus (Sauria: Anguidae) from the Republica Dominicana." Journal of Herpetology 23 (2) (1989: 193-195.
Smith, P. William, and Browning, M. Ralph. "An Erroneous Specimen Record of the Bahama Swallow from Florida." Florida Field Naturalist 17 (2) (1989): 40-41.
Smith-Vaniz, W. F., Johnson, G. D.; and Randall, J. E. ‘“Redescription of Gravila albomarginata (Fowler and Bean) and Cephalopholis polleni (Bleeker) with Comments on the Generic Limits of Selected Indo-Pacific Groupers (Pisces: Serranidae: Epinephelinae)." Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 140 (2) (1988): 1-23.
Springer, V. G. "Rotuma lewisi, New Genus and Species of Fish from the
Southwest Pacific (Gobioidei: Xenisimidae). Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washi on 101 (3) (1988): 530-539.
"Ecsenius: The World's Most Interesting Genus of Marine
Fishes." Tropical Fish Hobbyist 37 (8) (1989): 38, 41-43, 46-52,
and 37 (9): 50, 51, 53, 56, 58-61 (article split in two parts).
Springer, V. G., amd Collette, B. B. "Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., 19291988." Copeia 1 (1989): 245-251.
Springer, V. G., and Gold, J. P. Sharks in Question, The Smithsonian Answer Book. Smithsonian Institution Press. (1989): 187 pages, 16 plates, frontispiece.
Sullivan, Robert M.; Lucas, Spencer G.; Hunt, Adrian P.; and Fritts, Thomas H. "Color Pattern on the Selmacryptodiran Turtle Neurankylus from the Early Paleocene (Puercan) of the San Juan Basin, New Mexico." Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, Contributions in Science 41 (1988): 1-9.
Tighe, Kenneth A. "Family Serrivomeridae." In Fishes of the Western North Atlantic, No. 1, Part 9, Vol. 1. Memoir Sears Foundation for Marine Research. (1989): 613-627.
"Family Serrivomeridae: Leptocehali." In Fishes of the Western North Atlantic, No. 1, Part 9, Vol. 1. Memoir Sears Foundation for Marine Research. (1989): 921-924.
Tyler, James C.; Johnson, G. David; Nakamura, Izumi; and Collette, Bruce B. "Morphology of Livarus imperialis (Luvaridae), with a Phylogenetic Analysis of the Acanthuroidei (Pisces)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 485 (1989): 78 pages, 50 figures.

<<<Page: 249>>>

Vari, R. P. “The Curimatidae, a Lowland Neotropical Family (Pisces: Characiformes) ; Distribution, Endemism and Phylogenetic Biogeography." In Neo ical Distribution Patterns: Proceedings of a Workshop, Rio de Janeiro, Academia Brasileira de Ciéncias. Edited by P. E. Vanzolini and W. Ronald Heyer. (1988): 313-348."A Phylogenetic Study of the Neotropical Characiform Family
Curimatidae (Pisces, Ostariophysi)." Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology 471 (1989): iv +71, figs. 1-45.
"Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus Pseudocurimata Fernadndez-Yépez (Pisces: Ostariophysi).
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 490 (1989): 28 pages.
Vari, R. P., and Vari, A. Williams. "Systematics of the Steindachnerina hypostoma complex (Pisces, Ostariophysi, Curimatidae), with the Description of Three New Species. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102 (2) (1989): 468-482, 11 figures.
Weitzman, S. H., and Dalen, M. J. "Illustrating Fishes." In The Guild Book of Scientific Illustration. Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York. (November 1988): 302-320.
Weitzman, S. H., and Fernandez, J. M. "A Tiny Species of Nannostomus New to Aquarists, from Venezuela and Brazil." Tropical Fish Hobbyist 37 (8) (1989): 74-78.
Weitzman, S. H., and Menezes, N. A. "Necroldogio George Sprague Myers (2/II/1905-4/X/1985)." Revista Brasileira de Zoologia 6 (1) (1989): 175-177.
Weitzman, S. H.; Menezes, N. A.; and Weitzman, M. J. "Phylogenetic Biogeography of the Glandulocaudini (Teleostei: Characiformes, Characidae) with Comments on the Distributions of Other Freshwater Fishes in Eastern and Southeastern Brazil." In Proceedings of a Workshop _on Neotropical Distribution Patterms Held 12-16 January 1987. Academia Brasileira de Ciécias, Rio de Janeiro. Edited by P. E. Vanzolini and W. Ronald Heyer. (1988): 379-427.
Williams, J. T. "Revision and Phylogenetic Relationships of the Blenniid Fish Genus Cirripectes." Indo-Pacific Fishes 17 (1988): 78 pages, 7 color plates.
"Book review of: Frogfishes of the World, by T. W. Pietsch and D. B. Grobecker. National Geographic Research 5 (3) (1989): 277280.
Wilson, D. E. "Bats." In Tropical Rain Forest Ecosystems. Edited by H. Lieth and M. J. A. Werger. Elsevier, Amsterdam. (1989): 356382.
(Review of) Studies In Neotropical Mammalogy. Edited by B. D. Patterson and R. M. Timm. Journal of Tropical Ecology 5 (1989): 256.
Wynn, Addison H. "Geographic Distribution: Typhlops ater." Herpetology Review 19 (3)(1988): 60.
Zug, George R. "Biological Biography of Philippine Butaan. Gray's Monitor Lizard." Naturalist Review (Fall 1988): 6-7.
. “Frogs and Toads of the World." Science Activities 25 (4) (1988): 44.
"Heteronota pelagica Girard, 1857 (currently Gymnodactylus, Cyrtodactylus, Nactus pelagicus; Reptilia, Sauria): Proposed Conservation of the Specific Name." Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 46 (1989): 38-40.

<<<Page: 250>>>

Zug, George R. Careers in Herpetology. American Society of
Ichthyology and Herpetology. (1989): 4 pages.
. "Walking, Running, and Swimming." In Crocodiles and
Alligators. Golden Press Tyt. Ltd.; Sydney. (1989): page 46.
Zug, G. R.} Springer;-V. Go; Williams, J. T.;and’ Johnson, G.D."The Vertebrates of Rotuma and Surrounding Waters." Atoll Research Bulletin 316 (1988; 1989): 25 pages.
Zusi, R. L. "A Modified Jaw Muscle in the Maui Parrotbill (Pseudonestor: Drepanididae). Condor 91 (3) (1989): 716-720.
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center
Ferrari, F. "Evolutionary Transformations and Dollo's Law." Journal
of Crustacean Biology 8 (1988): 618-619.
"Development Patterns in Numbers of Ramal Segments of Copepod Post—Maxillipedal Legs." Crustaceana 54 (1988): 256-293. Ferrari, F., and Dojiri, M. "The Calanoid Copepod Euchaeta antarctica
from Southern Ocean Atlantic Sector MidwaterTrawls, with Observations on Spermatophore Dimorphism." Journal of Crustacean Biology 7 (1987): 458-480.
Lemaitre, R. "Revision of the Genus Parapagurus (Anomura: Paguroidea: Parapaguridae), Including Redescriptions of the Western Atlantic Species." Zoologische Verhandelingen (253) (1989): 106 pp.
Phillips, R., and Menez, E. "Seagrasses." Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences (34) (1988): 104 pp., 4 tables, 57 figures, 39 maps.
Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port
Bieler, Rudiger. "Phylogenetic Relationships in the Gastropod Family Architectonicidae, with Notes on the Family Mathildidae (Allogastropoda)." Malacological Review, Suppl. 4 (1988): 205240.
Buzas, Martin A.; Collins, Laurel S.; Richardson, Susan L.; and Severin, Kenneth P. "Experiments on Predation, Substrate Preference, and Colonization of Benthic Foraminifera at the Shelfbreak off the Fort Pierce Inlet, Florida." Journal of Foraminiferal Research. 19 (2)(1989): 146-152.
"The Effect of Quartz Versus Calcareous Sand on the Densities of Living Foraminifera." Micropaleontology 35 (2)(1988): 135Be
Byrne, Maria. "“Oogenesis in the Ophiuroid Ophiolepis paucispina." In
Proceedings of the Sixth International Echinoderm Conference.
Robert D. Burke, Philip V. Mladenov, Philip Lambert, and Robert L.
Parsley, Editors. Victoria/23-28 August 1987 (1988).
"Arm Structure of Ophiomyxid Brittle Stars: the Flesh is Not Necessarily Weak (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea)." In Proceedings of the Sixth International Echinoderm Conference. Robert D. Burke, Philip V. Mladenov, Philip Lambert, and Robert L. Parsley, Editors. Victoria/23-28 August 1987 (1988).

<<<Page: 251>>>

Byrne, Maria. "Ultrastructure of the Ovary and Oogenesis in the Ovoviviparous Ophiuroid Ophiolepis paucispina (Echinodermate)." Biological Bulletin 76 (1989): 79-95.
Hanisak, M. D.; Littler, M. M.; amd Littler, D. S. "Significance of Macroalgal Polymorphism: Intraspecific Tests of the FunctionalForm Model." Marine Biology 99 (1988): 157-165.
Hendler, Gordon, and Byrne, Maria. "Fine Structure of the Dorsal Arm Plate of Ophiocoma wendti: Evidence for a Photoreceptor System (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea)." Zoomorphology 107 (1987): 261272.
Hendler, Gordon, and Peck, Robert W. "Ophiuroids Off the Deep End: Fauna of the Belizean Fore-Reef Slope." Proceedings of the Sixth International Echinoderm Conference. Robert D. Burke, Philip V. Mladenov, Philip Lambert, and Ronald L. Parsley, Editors. Victoria/23-28 August 1987 (1988).
Hendler, Gordon, and Peck, Robert W. "Ophiuroid Skeletal Ontogeny Reveals Homologies Among Skeletal Plates of Adults: A Study of Amphiura filiformis, Amphiura stimpsonii and phiophragmus filograneus (Echinodermata)." Biological Bulletin 174 (1988): 20-29.
Hines, Anson H. "Fecundity and Reproductive Output in Two Species of Deep-sea Crabs, Geryon fenneri and G. quinquedens (Decapoda: Brachyura)." Journal of Crustacean Biology 8 (4) (1988): 557562.
Houbrick, Richard S. "Cerithioidean Phylogeny." Malacological Review Suppl. 4 (1988): 88-128.
Kilar, John A., and Hanisak, M. Dennis. "Seasonal Patterns of Morphological Variability in Sargassum polyceratium (Phaeophyta) ." Journal of Phycology. 24 (1988): 467-473.
Kilar, John A., and Norris, James N. "Composition, Export, and Import of Drift Vegetation on a Tropical, Plant-Dominated, Fringing-Reef Platform (Caribbean, Panama)." Coral Reefs, 7 (2) (1988): 93-103.
Kilar, John A., and Mclachlan, J. "Effects of Wave Exposure on the Community Structure of a Plant-Dominated, Fringing-Reef Platform: Intermediate Disturbance and Disturbance-Mediated Competition." Marine Ecology Press Series 54 (1989): 265-276.
Kool, Silvard P. "Aspects of the Anatomy of Plicopurpura patula (Prosobranchia: Muricoidea: Thaidinea), New Combination, with Emphasis on the Reproductive System." Malacologia, 29 (2) (1988): 373-382.
"Phylogenetic Analysis of the Subfamily Thaidinae (Prosobranchia: Neogastropoda: Muricidae)." George Washington University, Washington, D.C. (1988).
Kristensen, Reinhardt Mobjerg, and Higgins, Robert P. "Marine Tardigrada from the Southeastern United States Coastal Waters. I. Paradoxipes orgeliscoids n.g., n.sp. (Athrotardigrada: Halechiniscidea)." Transactions of the American Microscopical Society 108 (1989): 262-282.
Littler, Diane S., and Littler, Mark M. "Marine Plants of the Caribbean. A Field Guide from Florida to Brazil. Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, DC (1989): 263 pp.

<<<Page: 252>>>

oittler. M..M.; Littler, D. S.; Norris, J., N=;and Bucher, K. Eb. "Recolonization of Algal Commmities Following the Grounding of the Freighter Wellwood on Molasses Reef, Key Largo Marine Sanctuary." NOAA, Technical Memorandum SER. NOS MEND 12 (1987): 42 pp. i
Littler, Mark M., and Littler, Diane S. Chapter 2, pp. 29-56. "Structure and Role of Algae in Tropical Reef Communities." In C. A. Lembi and J. Robert Waaland, Editors. Algae and Human Affairs, Cambridge University Press, New York (1988): 509 pp.
Manning, R. B., and Camp, D. K. "Additional Records for an Atlantic Reef Lobster, Enoplometopus antillensis, Lutken, 1865 (Crustacea: Decapoda: Enoplometopidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, 102 (2) (1989): 411-417.
Manning, Raymond B. "Notes on Albuneid Crabs (Crustacea: Decapoda: Albuneidae) from the Central East Coast of Florida." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington. 101 (3)(1988): 626-632.
Manning, Raymond B. "The Status of Callianassa hartmeyeri Schmitt, 1935, with the Description of Corallianassa xutha from the West Coast of America (Crustacea: Decapoda: Thalassinidea)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington. 101 (4) (1988): 883-889.
Manning, Raymond B., and Felder, Darryl L. "The Pinnixa cristata Complex in the Western Atlantic, with a Description of Two New Species (Crustacea: Decapoda: Pinnotheridae)." Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (473) (1989).
Norenburg, Jon L. Chapter 22. "Nemertina." In Introduction to the Study of Meiofauna. Edited by R. P. Higgins and H. Thiel. Smithsonian Institution Press, (1988): 287-292.
"Remarks on Marine Interstitial Nemertines and Key to the Species." _Hydrobiologia 156 (1988): 87-92.
Okamura, Beth. "The Influence of Neighbors on the Feeding of an Epifaunal Bryozoan." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology. 120 (1988): 105-123.
Pawson, David L., and Miller, John E. "Thyone tanyspeira, a New Species of Sea Cucumber from the Southern Caribbean Sea (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea)." Bulletin of Marine Science. 42 (2) (1988): 310-316.
Rice, Mary E. Chapter 32. Sipuncula. In Introduction to the Study of Meiofauna. Edited by R. P. Higgins and H. Thiel. Smithsonian Institution Press, (1988): 355-356.
. Chapter 14. Sipuncula. In Reproductive Biology of Invertebrates. Vol. IV. Part A. Edited by K. G. and Rita G. Adiyodi. "Fertilization, Development, and Parental Care." Oxford and IBH Publishing Co., New Delhi, (1989): 263-280.
Smith, Celia M., and Norris, James N. "Procarp Structure in Some Caribbean Species of Bostrychia Montagne, (Rhodophyta, Rhodomelaceae): An Important Systematic Character." Atoll Research Bulletin 312 (1988): 1-15.

<<<Page: 253>>>

Barber, James G. Alexandria in the Civil War. Lynchburg, Va.: H.E. Howard,
Carr, Carolyn Kinder. "A Friendship and a Photograph: Sophia Williams, Talcott Williams, and Walt Whitman." The American Art Journal 21 (1) (1989): 2-12.
Christman, Margaret C.S. The First Federal Congress 1789-1791. Washington, DiaGe.f 1989);
Fern, Alan M. (Foreword) On the Air: Pioneers of American Broadcasting by Amy Henderson, 1988.
(Foreword) Isamu Noguchi Portrait Sculpture by Nancy Grove, 1989.
(Foreword) The First Federal Congress 1789-1791 by Margaret @.S. Christman,;..1989. Hart, Sidney, and David C. Ward. '"'The Waning of an Enlightenment Ideal: Charles Willson Peale's Philadelphia Museum, 1790-1820," Journal of the Early Republic, 8, 4 (Winter 1988): 389-418. Henderson, Amy. On the Air: Pioneers of American Broadcasting. Washington, D.C. Smithsonian Press, 1988. Miles, Ellen G. "Saint-Memin's Portraits of American Indians, 1804-1807." The American Art Journal 20 (1988): 2-33. . “American Portraits, 1720-1920: 'The Taste of the People.'" Three Hundred Years of American Painting: The Montclair Art Museum. New York: Hudson Hills Press (1989), 18-27. Miller, Lillian B. Review of Francis Calley Gray and Art Collecting for
America by Marjorie B. Cohen in Journal of the Early Republic, 8, 3 (Fall 1988).
Review of Colonial American Portraiture: The Economic Social,
Cultural, Philosophical, Scientific, and Aesthetic Foundations by Wayne
Craven in The Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, 96, 4, (October 1988).
Review of Gilbert Stuart by Richard McLanathan in Maryland
Historical Magazine, 84 (Summer 1989).
Review of Grand Illusions. History Painting in America by William H. Gerdts and Mark Thistlethwaite in The Journal of American
History, 76, 2 (September 1989). Reaves, Wendy Wick. "The Prints". Antiques (February 1989): 502-511. Stewart, Robert G. "Portraits of George and Martha Washington." Antiques (February, 1989): 474-479. . "James Earl: American Painter of Loyalists and His Career in England." The American Art Journal 20 (1988): 34-58. "Auguste Hervieu, A Portrait Painter in Cincinnati." Queen City Heritage. The Journal of the Cincinnati Historical Society. 47 (1) (Spring, 1989): 23-31. Review of "John Lewis Krimmel: An Artist in Federal America" by
Milo M. Naeve in Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography 113 (3) (July, 1989)

<<<Page: 254>>>

Stapp, William F. "America Seeks Its Destiny." Images America: A Panorama of History-in Photographs. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Books, 1989. "On Collecting: An Historical Perspective." 1989 International Fine Art Photography Expositions: Celebrating 150 Years of Photography. Washington, D.C.: Association of International Photography Art Dealers, 1989. "The Nineteenth Century Portrait." The Art of Photography 1839-1989. Houston, Canberra and London: Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; Australian National Gallery; Royal Academy of Art, 1989. Tappert, Tara L. ''Cecilia Beaux: A Career as a Portraitist." Women's Studies, an Interdisciplinary Journal 14 (4) (1988): 389-411. Academy of Arts, 1989. Voss, Frederick S. '"Adalbert Volck: The South's Answer to Thomas Nast." Smithsonian Studies in American Art 2 (3) (Fall 1988). "Ed Wynn" in Dictionary of American Biography, edited by John A. Garraty and Mark C. Carnes, supplementary vol. 8. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. “James Rorimer."" Dictionary of American Biography, edited by John A. Garraty and Mark C. Carnes, supplementary vol. 8. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. Portraits of the American Law. Washington, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery and University of Washington Press (1988). Ward, David C. Review of A Gallery Collects Peales by Robert Devlin Schwarz
in Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography, LTS (July 1989): 469-70.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service Books and Exhibition Catalogues
Alward, Dale E., ed. Update 1989. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1988.
Anglesea, Martyn. Portraits and : British and Irish Drawings and Watercolours from the Ulster Museum Belfast. Belfast: Ulster Museum, 1989.
Keaveney, Raymond. Views of Rome: Watercolors and Drawings from the Thomas Ashby Collection in the Vatican Library. London: Scala Books, amd Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1988.
McElroy, Guy C., Richard J. Powell, amd Sharon F. Patton. AfricanAmerican Artists, 1880-1987: Selections from the Evans-Tibbs Collection. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, and Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1989.
Booklets
Alward, Dale E., ed. Siteline, no. 30. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1988.
Archambault, JoAllyn. Plains Indian Art: Continuity and Charge. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1989.

<<<Page: 255>>>

Davidson, Gail S. Training the Hand and Eye: American Drawings from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1989.
Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St. Helens. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1989.
Rubenstein, Harry R. Badges of Pride: Symbols and Images of American Labor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1989.
Silverman, Marci. Goya Etchings: Caprichos, Desastres and Tauromaquia. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1989.
Posters Badges of Pride: Symbols and Images of American Labor
Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St. Helens
Views of Rome: Watercolors and Drawings from the Collection of the Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana
Eisendrath, Betsy, ed. NGOING eos -Godng stew Gone? Tropical Rainforests--How They Work, What They Do for Us, What’s Being Done: (to Them.’ .: 2.0," -Art2tor Zoo. October 1988.
"The Greatest Show on Barth--Starring Some of the World’s Smallest Animals,” Art to Zoo. April 1989.
"A Peek into Wardrobes: Men’s and Women’s Clothing and Social Roles, 1850-1920," Art to Zoo. May 1989.
"Strong Enough to Move Boulders, But It Can Float in Air. < What Is It? Water! How Its Properties Shape Our World,” Art to Zoo. September 1989.
Smith, Michelle. Carbons to Computers: The Changing American
OETIce: Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1989.

<<<Page: 256>>>

Cadaval;Olivia, and Virginia Cassiano; eds.” Tirarlo*a la calle/Taking to the Streets: Viewing the Latino Community Through the Festival. Translated by Alicia Portnoy. Washington, D.C.: Institute for Contemporary Culture.
>. Entroduction to“Tirarlo a“la ‘calle/Taking to the Streets: Viewing the Latino Community Through the Festival. Translated by Alicia Portnoy. Washington, D.C.: Institute for Contemporary Culture.
“Adams Morgan: New Identity for an Old Neighborhood. In Washington at Home, ed. Kathryn Schneider Smith, pp. 227-259. Northridge, California: Windsor Publications, Inc.
Kennedy, Richard with Lynn Martin. "Hawai'i: Cosmopolitan Culture at the Crossroads of the Pacific." Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Frank Proschan, pp. 36-49. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
Kurin, Richard. "Why We Do the Festival." Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Frank Proschan, pp. 8-21. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
"Doctor, Lawyer, Indian Chief." Anthropology 88/89, ed. Elvio Angelonia, pp. 16-20. Guilford: Dushkin Annual Editions. (Reprint, 81/82)
"Making Exhibitions Indian: Aditi and Mela at the Smithsonian Institution." In Making Things in South Asia: The Role of Artist and Craftsman, ed. Michael Meister, pp. 196209. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania.
Portes de Roux, Heliana. "Creolization in the Caribbean." Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Frank Proschan, pp. 66-79. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
Proschan, Frank. "The Cambodian School: Houston, Texas." In
Ethnic Heritage and Language Schools in America, ed. Brett Topping, pp. 29-47. Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress.
, ed. Festival of American Folklife Program Book. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
Seeger, Anthony. "Dualism: Fuzzy Thinking or Fuzzy Sets." In The Attraction of Opposites: Thought and Society in the Dualistic Mode, eds. David Maybury-Lewis and Uri Almagor, pp. 191-208. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
"Voices, Flutes, and Shamans in Brazil." The World of Music/Die Welt der Musik/le Monde de la Musique 30:2240.
"Leadbelly and Woody: Musicians for the 80s."
WETA Magazine 2(3).
, ed. "Musics of Hawai'i: Anthology of Hawaiian Music." Smithsonian/Folkways 40016.
, ed. Book Review Section of Yearbook for
Traditional Music, vol. 20, publication of the International Council for Traditional Music, a UNESCO affiliated organization.
ee ee, "Visions of Folkways Records" (18 min.), "Looking for New England" (15 min.), "Soviet Music" (10 min.), and "American Folklore Society Centennial" (12 min.). Washington, D.C.: Radio Smithsonian.
, co-editor. "Folkways: The Original Vision." Smithsonian/Folkways 40001.
Vennum, Thomas, Jr. Recording review of "Swiss Folk Music." Journal of American Folklore 101:233-35.
"American Indian Problems of Access and Cultural Continuity. Festival of American Folklife Program Book, ed. Frank Proschan, pp. 22-35. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
. . Recording and liner notes for
"Ojibway Music from Minnesota: Continuity and) Change." St. Paul: Minnesota Historical Society Press.
. "Ojibway Ceremonial Drum Decor: Sources’ and Variations." In Circles of Tradition exhibit catalogue.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
Borden, Carla M., ed. Contemporary Indian Tradition: Voices on Culture, Nature, and the Challenge of Change (Washington and London: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989).
Contemporary India: Essays on the Uses of Tradition (Delhi: Oxford University Press, 1989).
Kotler, Neil G., ed. Science Education: A Challenge for Excellence in America's Future (Santa Barbara: ARCS Foundation, Inc., 1989).
and Paula M. Hirschoff, eds. Completing the Food Chain: Strategies for Combating Hunger and Malnutrition (Washington and London: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989).

<<<Page: 257>>>

The Torch. A monthly newsletter for Smithsonian employees, featuring profiles, question-and-answer columns about interesting jobs, previews of upcoming events, classified ads, and more. Circulation is 9,800, which includes staff and a list of interested individuals and organizations outside the Smithsonian. Editor: Mary Combs.
Smithsonian Institution Research Reports. A newsletter that disseminates information on Smithsonian research to an audience of about 57,000 readers (10,000 scientists, libraries, museums, universities, journalists, and others and 47,000 Contributing Members of the National Associate Program). Published three times a year in 1989--Winter, Spring, and Autumn. Editor: Jo Amn Webb.
Latino Resources at the Smithsonian. A 40-page bilingual brochure that tells readers what is available at the Smithsonian for members of the Hispanic community. Four-color cover; two colors inside. Writer: Gabriela Frings.
Herencia Latina (Latino Heritage). A 30-second taped public-service announcement for television in Spanish intended to inform the Latino community of the relevance of the Smithsonian--its exhibits and resources--to the Latino community and to offer a brochure.
Coordinator: Gabriela Frings.
Faces of the Smithsonian. A 30-second taped public-service announcement for television intended to give a sense of the non-European-American cultural traditions that are found in exhibits and activities at the Smithsonian and to encourage viewers to learn about other cultures, as wel] as their own. Coordinator: Lilas Wiltshire.
Wish You Were Here. A 30-second filmed public-service announcement for television directed especially to senior citizens and focusing on sightseeing, reminiscing, and relaxing in the museums. Coordinator: Lilas Wiltshire
Once Upon a Time. A 30-second filmed public-service announcement for television with 20 children of diverse cultural backgrounds and Japanese American actor Pat Morita as on-camera narrator sending the continuing message "The Smithsonian is for Everybody." Coordinator: Lilas Wiltshire
Caribbean Festival Arts. A 30-second filmed public-service announcement for television on the "Caribbean Festival Arts" exhibition highlighting both the exhibition and the special activities, with actress Madge Sinclair as on-camera narrator. Produced for the International Center. Coordinator: Lilas Wiltshire
Smithsonian News Service. A feature-story service that provides four articles and appropriate art work each month to more than 2,000 daily and weekly newspapers and other media in the United States and abroad.

<<<Page: 258>>>

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS Radio Smithsonian — 52 half-hour radio programs broadcast nationally
The partial listing of segments, which follows, contains material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel:
"Squid Seminar" Experts from ten nations review the dilemmas of classifying these animals. (NMNH)
"ncovering Antietam" Historians and scientists discuss the discovery and excavation of a previously unknown Civil War burial site. (NMNH)
"Aeronautical Developments of the 2lst Century" A look at advances in the industry from aircraft to new airport designs. (NASM)
"Warming: A Warning" Scientists and biologists from all over the world discuss the consequences of the greenhouse effect for biological diversity. (Castle)
"Out of this World" A discussion of evidence that shows the existence of a planet orbiting a star other than our own sun. (SAO)
"100 Years of National Geographic" A review of explorers, discoveries and landmark expeditions. (SITES)
"The Nuts and Bolts of Robotics" Budding engineers study the impact of robotics and automation in a Smithsonian course for kids. (RAP)
"A Jeweler’s Eye" The story of collector Henri Vever who amassed a stunning array of Islamic paintings and manuscripts. (Sackler)
"Inside the Halls of Justice" Constitutional scholars, historians and lawyers give insiders’ views of life in the marble temple. (RAP)
'en and Women: Dressing the Part" A look at changes in fashion and our Changing ideas about masculinity and femininity. (NMAH)
"The Original Vision" Highlights of a new album of original Woody Guthrie and Huddie "Leadbelly" Ledbetter songs. (OFP)
"Sharks in Question" Discussion of a recently released Smithsonian book which cuts through the myth and misinformation about the most spectacular and efficient of the world’s great predators. (SIP)
"Duke Ellington, American Music" Highlights from a month-long celebration of the 90th anniversary of Ellington’s birth. (NMAH)
"100 Years of the Zoo" A tribute to the accomplishments of the National Zoological Park as well as plans for the future a BioPark which would provide visitors with a better understanding of the interdependence of life. (NZP)
"Eddie Palmieri and his Latin Jazz Octet" Music from the Grammy Award-winning band leader as presented in a Smithsonian concert.
"On the Air" A tribute to the pioneers of American broadcasting in a discussion tracing the impact of radio and television personalities on American culture. (NPG)
"Memories of a Hidatsa Indian Family" Experiences of three American Indian families from 1840 1920 and how they coped with radical change without surrendering to it. (NMAH)
"Sounding Forms" Performances on African msical instruments on view in a special exhibition. (NMAFA)

<<<Page: 259>>>

"The Shopping Bag Portable Art" Collectors and scholars review how the lowly bag has been elevated to the level of high art. (Cooper-Hewitt)
"Flight Enters the Computer Age" Highlights of an exhibition tracing the development of the computer and aerospace industries from the 1940s. (NASM)
"Mapping the Human Genome" James D. Watson, winner of a 1953 Nobel Prize as the pioneer codiscoverer of the DNA structure, discusses his human genome project at the National Institutes of Health. (RAP)
"The Real McCoy" Highlights from a new exhibition tracing African American invention and innovation. (Anacostia)
"Volcanoes: The Inside Story" Examining the scientific breakthroughs that have enabled volcanologists to understand how volcanoes work. (NMNH )
"Fantastic Vessels, Fictional Voyages" A tour through an exhibition of three dimensional boats created by contemporary artists. (Renwick)
Here at the Smithsonian — three-minute television features for national broadcast
The partial listing which follows contains material based on research
Gone by Smithsonian curators or other personnel:
"Warming Up to Reptiles" A look at how the National Zoo is leading the way in understanding and preserving our fine, cold-blooded friends, and presenting them to the visiting public. (NZP)
"Crossroads of Two Continents" The diverse cultures of the Bering Strait region are featured in the first exhibition ever to be jointly organized by U.S. and Soviet scholars. (NMNH)
"Engines of Change" A look at the transformation of American society brought on by the Industrial Revolution. (NMAH)
"The Brush of Innocence" Watching Chinese painter Wang Yani as she demonstrates her extraordinary art in a special exhibition. (Sackler)
"Aloha, Hawai’i!" Experiencing the rich and varied cultural traditions of our nation’s 50th state. (OFP)
"The Portraits of Isamu Noguchi" The first retrospective of this Japanese—American sculptor’s rarely seen portraits of famous Americans. (NPG)
"Rocks in a Hard Place" The story of Smithsonian scientists in their search for meteorites in Antarctica. (NMNH)
"Zoo Vets" A look at a day in the life of a veterinarian at the National Zoo. (NZP)
"Black Wings" A chronicle of the important role of black Americans in the history of aviation. (NASM) ;
"The Perpetual Man Ray" Regardless of the medium, the varied art of Man Ray is as vital and creative today as it was fifty years ago. (NMAA)
Film and Video Productions
This partial listing contains material based on research done by
Smithsonian curators or other personnel:
"The Earth in Our Hands" Narrated by Robert Redford, this one-hour film presents the pioneering work of the Smithsonian's Marine Systems Laboratory as its scientists recreate self-sustaining ecosystems. (NMNH)

<<<Page: 260>>>

"The Smithsonian Institution" Produced for the Visitor Information and Associates Reception Center, this 20-minute orientation video presents general information on Smithsonian museums. (VIARC)
"The Smithsonian Institution Touch Screen Interactive Video" Produced for the new Smithsonian Information Center in the Great Hall of the Castle, this 30-minute interactive videodisc program provides visitors with detailed information about each mseum, tours, special activities for children, and restaurants. (VIARC)
"American Abstraction 1930 1945: The Artists Speak" This 30-minute interactive videodisc accompanies an exhibition of abstract art from the Patricia and Philip Frost Collection. (NMAA)
"Descubra el Smithsonian" A pilot series of two-minute television capsules was produced for Spanish-language TV to reach the nation's growing Hispanic commmity.
"To Coexist: Diversity and Development" Produced for the U.S. Agency for International Development, this 30-minute program depicts how development professionals can take biological diversity into account in planning their projects.
"Duke Ellington Interactive Video" An interactive videodisc was produced to accompany an exhibition on the 90th anniversary of Ellington's birth. (NMAH)
"Preserving an Architectural Heritage: The Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd Wright" This ten-minute film forms the central section of a SITES exhibition which will tour to five major U.S. cities. (SITES)
"Maritime Hall Exhibition Videos" Nine short interactive videodiscs were produced to provide visitors an opportunity to learn the history, technology, and commercial importance of towboats on the Mississippi River. (NMAH)
Program #501 Zoo (January 24, 1990)
Program #502 A Moveable Feast (February 21, 1990) Program #503 Tales of the Human Dawn (March 28, 1990) Program #504 Nigerian Art-Kindred Spirits (May 2, 1990) Program #505 The Quantum Universe (June 6, 1990)
Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
Lovejoy, Thomas E., The Third World's environment: a global dilemma, EPA Journal 15(4):42-43, 1989. Lovejoy, Thomas E., Foreword to Fragile Lands of Latin America:
Strategies for Sustainable Development (J.0O. Browder, Ed.), Westview Press, Boulder, CO, 301 pp., 1989.
Lovejoy, Thomas E., Amazonian Peril: Myth and Reality, Folha de Sao Paulo, March 23, 1989. (In Portuguese)

<<<Page: 261>>>

Stann, E. Jeffrey, and Anne Cleaver, eds. Voyage to the Southern
Continent: The Letters of Lieutenant William Reynolds
from the U. S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842 (Annapolis: Naval Institute Press, 1988).
Talman, Hugh "An Examination of the Effectiveness of Various Toning Solutions on Black and White Silver Halide Emulsions"
Proceedings, American Institute for Conservation Photographic Materials Group, Winter Meeting; Kansas City, Missouri, March 4, 1989.
Wallace, Jim. "An Examination Of Still Video Camera Use By Photojournalism Students In A Workshop Situation" Presented: Digital Photography and Editing Conference, Sunnyvale, California, February 10, 1989
"Electronic Color Separation of Video Disc Images". A joint research project with the Ohio University School of Visual Communication. Presented: Digital Photography and Editing Conference, Sunnyvale, California, February 10, 1989.
. “An Examination Of The Use Of Commercial Scanners To Restore Faded Color Transparencies (Preliminary Report)" Proceedings, American
Institute for Conservation, Photographic Materials Group, Winter Meeting; Kansas City, Missouri, March 4, 1989.

<<<Page: 262>>>

RIF Newsletter. Published three times a year, the Newsletter reports on RIF activities nationwide. A technical assistance insert, addressing local projects’ requests for information on how to motivate youngsters to read, is included in Newsletters sent to RIF projects. The Newsletter reaches 18,000 people throughout the United States and offshore territories.
The RIF Guide to Encouraging Young Readers (Doubleday, 1987). A sourcebook of activities, children’s book suggestions, and resources for parents.
Reading Is Fundamental. A brochure describing the organization and its accomplishments. “Parent Guide" Brochures. A series of eight brochures on the
topics "Choosing Good Books for Your Children," "TV and Reading," "Reading Aloud to Your Children," "Upbeat and Offbeat Activities to Encourage Reading," "Teenagers and Reading," "Children Who Can Read, But Don’t...," "Encouraging Soon-To-Be Readers," "Magazines and Family
Reading." k row On: A Parent’ ide to Encouraging Youn aders. A resource for parents of children from infancy to age eleven. The RIF Han k; How a il 1 Is Fun ii
Project. A technical assistance manual to help RIF volunteers organize and operate an effective reading motivation program. Includes an overview of RIF as well as sections on fundraising, book selection and ordering, and activities to motivate reading.
I Want You. A brochure to assist RIF projects in recruiting and training volunteers.
Reading Is Fun! Tips for Parents. A booklet offering suggestions on how to encourage children up to the age of eight to read.
Children’s Bookshelf. An annotated list of 106 books for Children up to the age of eleven. Profiles. Descriptions of the publishers and distributors that
serve RIF projects. The Profiles list special discounts and services offered by each supplier and are distributed annually to all projects.
When We Were Young: Favorite Books for RIF Kids, RIF Volunteers, and Readers of Renown. Forty-page list of favorite Children’s books. Includes personal acct aco sa of same 80 public figures.

<<<Page: 263>>>

Appendix 6
The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1989
The Secretary Robert McC. Adams Executive Assistant James M. Hobbins Special Assistant Marie Mattson Administrative Assistant Mary Lee Nissley (Appointments)
Research Assistant Glenn M. Schwartz Supervisor, Secretary's Files Betty J. Edwards Special Assistant for Zahava D. Doering
Institutional Studies
The Under Secretary Dean W. Anderson Administrative Officer Mary Brough Emond
Inspector General (Acting) John C. Fawsett Assistant Inspector General for Audits (Acting) Jerry L. Chandlec Assistant Inspector General for Investigations (Acting) Richard H. Cook
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL General Counsel Peter G. Powers
Associate General Counsels George S. Robinson Alan D. Ullberg
Assistant General Counsels Rachelle V. Browne James D. Douglas Lauryn Guttenplan Grant Elaine L. Johnston Marsha S. Shaines Christine Steiner James I. Wilson

<<<Page: 264>>>

Treasurer Ann R. Leven Assistant Treasurer, Office of
Financial Management and Planning John R. Clarke Comptroller, Office of Accounting
and Financial Services Shireen L. Dodson Director, Office of Risk Management Phillip H. Babcock Director, Office of Sponsored
Projects Ardelle G. Foss Director, Business Management Office James J. Chmelik
Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops Samuel J. Greenberg
Director, Mail Order Division John H. Giesecke
Director, Product Development and
Licensing Lisa Stevenson Concessions Administrator Roland W. Banscher
Assistant Secretary Robert S. Hoffmann Deputy Assistant Secretary Ross Simons Executive Officer Rita R. Jordan Special Assistant to the Ruth 0. Selig
Assistant Secretary for Research Special Assistant to the Judith A. Gradwohl Assistant Secretary for Research for Biodiversity Administrative Officer Joan R. Zavala
Coordinator Francine C. Berkowitz Administrative Officer Saundra A. Thomas
Director “Francine C. Berkowitz Assistant Director Brian W. J. LeMay International Exchanges Officer Raymond W. Seefeldt International Liaison Officer Leonard P. Hirsch International Liaison Specialist Judy Rodgers Johnson Administrative Assistant Barbara H. Russell Program Assistant L. Ernelle Ross
Director Cheryl LaBerge Program Assistant Karen Bennett Program Aide Emily Victoria Nolton

<<<Page: 265>>>

Director Alicia M. Gonzalez Program Manager Jacki T. Rand Research Assistant Dennis G. Medina Program Assistant Luis F. Tassara
Project Director
(Caribbean Festival Arts) Vera H. Hyatt Project Assistant (Caribbean Festival Arts) Helen Dizikes
Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Research Mary S. McCutcheon
Dineeror Francisco Gomez-Dallmeier Program Assistant Laura M. Neal
Director Marc Rothenberg Administrative Officer Beverly L. Leplev
Assistant Editor Assistant Editor Assistant Editor
BR fos 6)
Kathleen W. Dorman John C. Rumm Paul H. Theerman

<<<Page: 266>>>

Director
Registrar
Special Assistant to the Director
Executive Officer and Chief, Office of Management Services
Administrative Specialist
Computer Specialist
Personnel Specialist
Associate Director
Assistant Director for Animal Exhibits
Assistant Director for External Affairs
Assistant Director for Research
Assistant Director for Conservation and Captive Breeding Programs
Assistant Director for Animal Health
ANIMAL EXHIBIT DEPARTMENTS Assistant Director for Animal Exhibits Department of Mammalogy
Curator Associate Curator
Collection Managers Edward Bronikowski John Lehnhardt
Department of Herpetology
Curator Collection Manager
Michael H. Robinson Judith Block
Lynn Dolnick Vincent J. Doyle James E. Fitzpatrick Peter B. Kibbee Johnnie Smith
Benjamine B. Beck (Acting )
Dale Marcellini (Acting )
Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
Devra G. Kleiman
Christen M. Wemmer
R. Mitchell Bush
Dale Marcellini (Acting)
Edwin Gould John Seidensticker
Lisa Stevens William Xanten
Dale Marcellini Michael Davenport

<<<Page: 267>>>

Department of Ornithology Curator Assistant Curator Collection Manager
Department of Invertebrates Curator Collection Manager
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS Assistant Director for External
Affairs Office of Public Affairs
Chief, Office of Public Affairs
Office of Education
Chief, Office of Education
Assistant Director for Research Scientific Staff
Daryl J. Boness Eugene S. Morton Olav T. Oftedal
Population Manager Research Associates
Mary Allen
Steven R. Beissinger Adelmar Coimbra-Filho Susan D. Crissey Carolyn M. Crockett Priya Davidar
Elissa Derrickson Kim C. Derrickson James Dietz
Scott Derrickson Charles Pickett Paul Tomassoni
Jaren Horsley Alan Peters
Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
Robert J. Hoage
Judith White
Devra G. Kleiman
Katherine S. Ralls Miles Roberts Rasanayagam Rudran
Jonathan Ballou
Wolfgang P. J. Dittus John F. Eisenberg Lisa Forman
Theodore I. Grand Russell G. Greenberg Susan Lumpkin
John Robinson
Melvin E. Sunquist Betsy Trent Thomas

<<<Page: 268>>>

Assistant Director for Conservation
and Captive Breeding Programs Research Coordinator Conservation Officer Collection Manager
Research Associates
Peter August Joel Berger Illar Muul
Fellows and Associates
Lee Boyd Eric Dinnerstein
Assistant Director for Animal Health
Associate Veterinarian
Reporductive Physiologist
Research Associates
Stephen J. O’Brien Michael K. Stoskopf
Collaborators
Michael D. Abramowitz Richard Alsakar
Max J. Appel
Kenneth C. Bovée
M. Kathryn Hammock
A. Everette James, Jr. Seth Koch
Christen M. Wemmer
John Rappole Martha Fujita Larry Collins
J. L. David Smith Michael Sttiwe Richard Watling
Hemanta Mishra George Schwede
R. Mitchell Bush
Lyndsay G. Phillips, Jr. David E. Wildt
Sam Wasser
Bill Lasley Douglas W. McKay Carroll Platz William J. Ravich Edward Ruley Patricia Schmidt

<<<Page: 269>>>

Pathologist-in-Charge Richard J. Montali Associate Pathologist Linda Munson
Research Associates
Richard Alsaker John Pletcher Max J. G. Appel John Strandberg Chris Gardiner Anton Steuer Kathryn Holmes Bernard Zook
Chief, Office of Facilities David Boothe Management
Chief, Office of Design and Virginia A. Mahoney Exhibits Planning (Acting )
Chief, Office of Police and Samuel L. Middleton, Jr. Safety
FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO Executive Director Clint Fields Deputy Director James Schroeder OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES Director Wilcomb E. Washburn
Secretary Ruby Hamblen
DAGECTON 26 la a 5 ale, owe angele soa 3 we 4 le em o RODOP ER RUBINOTE PSSISCAMEOITeCTOr 3 40% soe we 2 eS 8 ow» a EVaZabeth Veaten Raministrative OTTICer 1. 6 «cs «0s S:e s «sa Catherine Harris peadenve Programs Officer. .<.<.4 s< .e« « 4. Daniel Center
Academic Programs Officer. .......... .. . Sharon Nishizaki

<<<Page: 270>>>

Director
Associate Directors Planning
Atomic and Molecular Physics High Energy Astrophysics Optical and Infrared Astronomy
Planetary Sciences
Radio and Geoastronomy Solar and Stellar Physics Theoretical Astrophysics
Administrative Department Heads
Central Engineering Contracts and Procurement Controller’s Office
Library
Personnel
Publications
Scientific Staff
Fred Adams
Yakov Alpert Johannes Andersen Eugene H. Avrett James Babb
Robert W. Babcock Sallie L. Baliunas John Biretta
Roger Blandford Eric Bloemhof
Jay Bookbinder Donato Bramanti Nelson Caldwell Nathaniel P. Carleton Frederic Chaffee Kelly Chance
John F. Chandler Jon H. Chappell Mark Colavita Allan F. Cook, II Mario Cosmo Alexander Dalgarno Thomas Dame
Irwin Shapiro
Bruce Gregory
Kate Kirby Harvey Tananbaum David W. Latham John L. Huchra (appointed February 1, 1989) Brian Marsden James M. Moran George L. Withbroe Alan P. Lightman (Acting) Alastair G.W. Cameron (appointed January 15, 1989)
Richard B. Dias George D. Dick Robert T. Ayer
Joyce Watson
Harris E. Rosenthal James C. Cornell, Jr.
Lawrence P. David Robert J. Davis Vivek Dhawan Andrea K. Dupree Martin S. Elvis Robert Estes Giuseppina Fabbiano Daniel G. Fabricant Giovanni Fazio George B. Field Edward L. Fireman William R. Forman Fred A. Franklin Michael R. Garcia Larry Gardner John C. Geary Margaret Geller Owen Gingerich Isabella Gioia
Leon Golub
Paul Gorenstein Dale E. Graessle Mario Grossi

<<<Page: 271>>>

Gordon Gullahorn Alan H. Guth
Carl Gwinn
Shadia Habbal
F. Rick Harnden, dr. Daniel E. Harris Patrick Hartigan Lee Hartmann Akihiko Hashimoto Andreas Heithausen John Hillier William Hoffmann John P. Huchra John P. Hughes Luigi Jacchia
David Johnson Chnistine Jones-Forman Kenneth Kalata Wolfgang Kalkofen Edwin M. Kellogg Scott Kenyon Dong-Woo Kim
John L. Kohl Lawrence Krauss Robert Kurucz David W. Latham Myron Lecar
Helen Leung
Alan Lightman
A. Edward Lilley Enrico Lorenzini Tommaso Maccacaro Brian Marsden Petrus C. Martens Ursula Marvin Colin Masson
P.M. Mathews Edward Mattison Jeffrey E. McClintock Richard E. McCrosky Jonathan C. McDowell Robert McMahon Gary Melnick
Karl Menten Stephen S. Murray Philip C. Myers Peter Nisenson Robert W. Noyes Birgitta Nordstrom Leonid Ozernoy Costas Papaliolios William Parkinson Michael R. Pearlman
Pan Xiao-Pei James Phillips Philip Pinto Francis A. Primini Bruno Quadrelli Harrison Radford John C. Raymond Mark Reid
Robert D. Reasenberg Luis Rodriguez Robert Rosner Michael Rupen George B. Rybicki Barbara Ryden Steven H. Saar Rudolph Schild Daniel A. Schwartz Joseph Schwarz Frederick D. Seward Patrick O. Slane Jack W. Slowey Andrzej Soltan Gregory Stacy Clive Standley Robert Stefanik Clifford Stoll Harvey D. Tananbaum Wesley A. Traub Ginevra Trinchieri Wallace H. Tucker Giusseppe Vaiana Adriaan van Ballegooijen Leon P. Van Speybroeck Robert F.C. Vessot George Victor Saega Dil Vrtilek Terrence Walker John Wardle Trevor Weekes Shen Wei
Steven Weinberg Fred L. Whipple Charles A. Whitney Belinda J. Wilkes Steven P. Willner George L. Withbroe Anna Wolter Douglas Wood John A. Wood Diana Worrall Kouichi Yoshino Martin Zombeck

<<<Page: 272>>>

Director Acting Assistant Director
Administrative Officer Facilities Manager
David L. Correl] Anson H. Hines
Helen M. Dalaski Paul Tavel
Program Assistants for Public Information
Education Specialist Docent Coordinator
Research Scientists
Environmental Engineer Ecologists
Modeler Plant Ecologists
Plant Physiologist Animal Ecologists
Microbial Ecologist
A. Mark Haddon Linda M. Chick
Evan Hillman Thomas E. Jordan Geoffrey G. Parker Donald E. Weller Allison A. Snow Dennis F. Whigham Jess Zimmerman Bert G. Drake William Carmen Joseph Dineen Anson H. Hines Junda Lin
James F. Lynch Martin Posey Gregory Ruiz Charles L. Gallegos
Archivist
Deputy Archivist Historian
Associate Archivists
Assistant Archivists
William W. Moss William A. Deiss Pamela M. Henson
Alan L. Bain
Diane L. Vogt-O'Connor William E. Cox
Susan W. Glenn
R. Shawn Johnstone James A. Steed

<<<Page: 273>>>

Director Deputy Director Manager, Planning & Admin. Administrative Officer Publications Officer
Deputy Director & Manager, Automated Systems Division Systems Administrator
Asst. Systems Admin.
Computer Equipment Spec. Chief, Auto. Bibl. Cont. Chief, Catalogue Records
Chief, Orig. Cat. & Ind. Cataloguer Cataloguer Cataloguer Cataloguer, Spec. Coll.
Asst. Director & Manager, Research Services Division Reference Librarian Central Services Unit Unit Manager & Chief Lib., Cent. Ref. & Loan Serv. Reference Librarian Reference Librarian Circulation Librarian Chief Lib., Mus. Ref. Chief Lib., MSC Branch Reference Librarian, History of Art Unit Unit Manager & Chief Lib., NMAH Branch Circulation Librarian Chf< Libs, O Hort. Branch Reference Librarian Chief Lib., CHM Branch Chief Lib., NMAfA Branch Special Collections Chief Lib: Spec: Coll.
Cnt.
Natural Sciences Unit Unit Manager & Chief Lib., NMNH Branch Reference Librarian Reference Librarian Reference Librarian Reference Librarian Reference Librarian Chief Lib., NZP Branch Chief Lib., SERC Branch
Barbara J. Smith Vija L. Karklins
Mary Augusta Rosenfeld
Laudine C. Creighton Nancy L. Matthews
Vija L. Karklins Thomas Garnett Marcia Adams
Mimi Scharf Victoria Avera Sheila Riley
Helen Nordberg Margaret A. Sealor Margaret D'Ambrosio Jacqueline Coleburn Mary L. Elder
Margaret S. Child Sylvia Churgin
Maureen L. Canick William B. Neff Nancy Seeger
Anne Ritchie Catherine D. Scott Karen Preslock Angela Haggins
Rhoda S. Ratner James Roan
Susan R. Gurney Marca Woodhams Stephen Van Dyk Janet L. Stanley
Ellen B. Wells
Ann Juneau
Ruth F. Schallert Mary K. Davies Robert Skarr David Steere Mayda Riopedre Kay Kenyon
Angela Haggins

<<<Page: 274>>>

Chief Lib., STRI Branch
Physical Sciences Unit Unit Manager & Chief Lib., NASM Branch Reference Librarian Reference Librarian Tech. Information Spec. Chief Lib., SAO Branch
Asst. Director & Manager, Collections Management Chief, Acquisitions Serv.
Assistant Chief
Chief Conservator, BCL Conservator
Head, Preservation Serv. Binding Section
Research Associate Research Associate
Martin A. Smith Mary Clare Gray Amy Levin
Philip Edwards Joyce Rey-Watson
Nancy E. Gwinn Pauline T. Lesnik Lucien R. Rossignol
John H. Hyltoft Maria Nugent Vanessa Piala James E. Lawson
Silvio A. Bedini Jean Chandler Smith

<<<Page: 275>>>

Director Deputy Director
Assistant Director, Marine Research Assistant Director, Terrestrial Research Acting Assistant Director, Terrestmal
Research Senior Scientist Executive Officer
Special Assistant to the Director
Educational Coordinator
Conservation Resources Manager
Facilities Manager
Chief, Procurement Section Personnel Specialist Development Officer
Scientufic Staff
Eldredge Bermingham Richard G. Cooke Mireya Correa William G. Eberhard Robin Foster
Jeremy B. C. Jackson Nancy Knowlton Egbert G. Leigh, Jr. Harilaos A. Lessios Olga F. Linares
Research Associates
Annette Aiello
Robin Andrews Carlos Arellano Lennox Charles Bennett, Jr. John Bort
Nicholas Brokaw Gordon M. Burghardt Luis D’Croz
Nathan Gale
Pedro Galindo
Judy Gradwohl Jeffrey B. Graham Stanley Heckadon Stephen P. Hubbell
wv N Oo
Ira Rubinoff Eric A. Fischer
‘John Christy
Alan P. Smith Donald M. Windsor
Martin H. Moynihan Leonor Motta
Elena Lombardo Georgina de Alba Gilberto Ocafia Carlos Tejada Mercedes Arroyo Carmen Sucre Edgardo Maravi
Dolores Piperno
A. Stanley Rand
D. Ross Robertson
David W. Roubik
Neal G. Smith
Nicholas Smythe
Mary Jane West-Eberhard Donald M. Windsor Hindnk Wolda
S. Joseph Wright
Leslie Johnson Yael Lubin Ernst Mayr Jorge Motta Anthony Ranere Michael Ryan Myra Shulman W. John Smith F. Gary Stiles Henry Stockwell Katherine Troyer Paulo E. Vanzolini Fnitz Vollrath

<<<Page: 276>>>

Assistant Secretary for Museums Tom L. Freudenhein
Deputy Assistant Secretary Elaine Heumann Gurian for Museums
Program Manager Barbara K. Schneider
Program Manager Beverly Pierce
Special Assistant Maureen Robinson
Special Assistant Jane Glaser
Program Analyst Thomas J. Peyton
Administrative Officer Patricia A. DuVall
Director, Experimental Gallery Kimberly Camp
Director Vacant
Executive Officer Audrey M. Archer Research Department
Historian Portia P. James
Historian Edward D. Smith Education Department
Chief of Education Department Zora Martin-Felton Production & Design Department
Senior Designer Sharon A. Reinckens
Supervisor of Exhibits Specialist James Mayo
Photographer Harold Dorwin

<<<Page: 277>>>

Washington Headquarters Office
Acting Director Assistant Director
Curator Emeritus and Journal Editor
Curator of Manuscripts Research Services Chief Regional Collector
New York Headquarters Office
Deputy Director Development Officer Membership Manager
Regional Centers
New York Regional Center Director New England Regional Center Director
Midwest Regional Center Director
West Coast Regional Center Director
Susan Hamilton James B. Byers Garnett McCoy
Arthur Breton
Judy E. Throm
Liza Kirwin
Susan Hamilton Marita O'Hare Nancy Palubniak
William McNaught
Robert Brown
Judith Gustafson
Paul Karlstrom
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY and FREER GALLERY OF ART
Director Associate Director
Assistant Director, Administration
Assistant Director, Exhibitions and Facilities
Assistant Director, Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Curator, Chinese Art
Associate Curator, Ancient Chinese Art
Assistant Curator, Chinese Art
Curator, Near Eastern Art
Assistant Curator, Ancient Near Eastern Art
Assistant Curator, Japanese Art
Assistant Curator, South and Southeast Asian Art
Assistant Curator, American Art
Assistant Curator, Ceramics
Head, Special Programs
Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory
Head, East Asian Painting Conservation
Head, Design and Installation
Head Librarian
Head Registrar, Sackler
Head Registrar, Freer
Head, Publications
Head Photographer
Milo C. Beach Richard Louie Sarah Newmeyer
Patrick H. Sears,
vacant Shen C. Y. Fu
vacant Jan Stuart Glenn D. Lowry
Ann C. Gunter Ann Yonemura
Carol Bolon Linda L. Merrill Louise A. Cort Esin Atil
W. Thomas Chase, III
Ryo Nishiumi John Zelenik Lily Kecskes Bruce Young Eleanor Radcliffe Karen Sagstetter Kim Nielsen

<<<Page: 278>>>

Head, Education
Head, Public Affairs
Head, Merchandising and Marketing
Development Officer
Lucia B. Pierce Susan Bliss
Rosaria Guaragna Nancy Green
Director
Deputy Director
Admin. Officer
Admin. Assistant
Coord., Education & Training
Information Department
Sr. Tech. Info. Spec. Tech. Info. Specialist Consvn Info. Specialist
Archaeometry
Asst. Dir. for Archaeometry SARCAR Manager & Senior Research Archaeologist
Art Historian
Sr. Research Chemist
Sr. Research Physicist
Metallurgist
Chemist
Sr. Ceramic Scientist Conservation Research
Asst. Dir. for Conserv'n Res.
Gr. Ldr. Organic Chen.
Sr. Res. Organic Chemist
Res. Organic Chemist
Organic Chemist
Chemist
Research Biochemist
Sr. Res. Photographic Sci. Head, Analy. Serv. Chemist, Analy. Serv. Chemist, Analy. Serv. Electron Microscopist
Conservation Treatment
Lambertus van Zelst Alan W. Postlethwaite Vernetta M. Williams Beverly M. Smith Eleanor McMillan
Marjorie W. Cleveland Sherry M. Medley Ann Johnson
Jacqueline S. Olin
Ronald L. Bishop Ingrid C. Alexander M. James Blackman Yu-Tarng Cheng Martha E. Goodway Emile Cc. Joel Pamela Vandiver
Marion F. Mecklenburg David W. von Endt
W. David Erhardt
Mary T. Baker
Walter H. Hopwood Open
Noreen C. Tuross
Mark H. McCormick-Goodhart Charles S. Tumosa Open
Open
Melanie T. Feather
Furniture including Furniture Conservation Training Program
Sr. Conservator Sr. Conservator Conservator
Objects Sr. Conservator Conservator
Donald C. Williams Marc A. Williams Melvin Wachowiak
Carol A. Grissom Harriet F. Beaubein

<<<Page: 279>>>

Paper Sr. Conservator Sr. Conservator
Painting Sr. Conservator Conservator
Textiles Sr. Conservator
Director
Assistant Director
Special Assistant to Director
Administrative Assistant
Administrator
Administrative Specialist
Development Officer
Assistant Development Officer
Membership Coordinator
Curator of Decorative Arts
Assistant Curator of Decorative Arts
Curator of Drawings and Prints
Asst. Curator of Drawings and Prints
Curator of Textiles
Assistant Curator of Textiles
Museum Technician for Wallcoverings
Librarian
Paper Conservator
Textile Conservator
Curator of Exhibitions
Exhibition Researcher
Exhibition Designer
Editor
Assistant Editor
Master's Degree Program Administrator
Program Coordinator
Program Assistant
Public Information Officer
Public Information Assistant and Special Events Coordinator
Registrar
Assistant Registrar
Automation Services Manager
Museum Shop Manager
Facilities Manager
Assistant Facilities Manager
Chief of Security
Dianne van der Reyden Timothy J. Vitale
Roland H. Cunningham Jia-Sun Tsang
Mary W. Ballard
Dianne H. Pilgrim vacant
Caroline Mortimer Greta Wharton Linda Dunne William Gaske George Nichols Sara MacAllister Judy Soffian
David Revere McFadden Deborah Shinn Elaine Evans Dee Gail Davidson Milton Sonday Gillian Moss
Ann Dorfsman Stephen Van Dyk Konstanze Bachmann Lucy Commoner Dorothy Twining Globus Lucy Fellowes vacant
Nancy Aakre Cynthia Plaut Henry Joyce
Susan Yelavich Paige Roberts Arthur Lindo
Michele Raphoon Cordelia Rose Steven Langehough Jay Vanatta
Polly Dufresne Jim Ledford vacant
Luis Palau

<<<Page: 280>>>

Director Deputy Director Executive Officer
Chief Curator: for” Exhibitions
Curator of Prints/Drawings Associate Curators
Publications Manager Librarian
Chief Conservator Conservators
Registrar
Chief, Exhibits and Design Chier, Education
Public Information Officer Photographer
Building Manager
James T. Demetrion Stephen E. Weil Nancy Kirkpatrick Ned Rifkin
Frank B. Gettings Amada Cruz Valeries J. Fletcher Phyllis Rosenzweig Judith K. Zilczer Barbara J. Bradley Anna Brooke Laurence Hoffman Leland Aks
Clarke Bedford Susan Lake Meredith Michelson Wippman Douglas Robinson Edward Schiesser Edward Lawson Sidney Lawrence Lee Stalsworth Frank Underwood
Director Deputy Director
Martin O. Harwit Donald S. Lopez
Special Assistant to the Director Assistant for Special Projects Assistant Director for Development
Aeronautics Acting Director Special Advisor for Technology Senior Curator Curators
Associate Curator Assistant Curator Historian
Historian Emeritus
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
Acting Chairman
Geologists
Program Manager
Steven L. Soter Brian M. Duff John M. Carlin
Dominick A. Pisano Howard S. Wolko Robert C. Mikesh R.E.G. Davies
Von D. Hardesty Claudia M. Oakes Dominick A. Pisano Robert van der Linden Richard A. Leyes, II Peter L. Jakab
Paul E. Garber
Thomas R. Watters Patricia A. Jacobberger James R. Zimbelman Robert A. Craddock Michael J. Tuttle Priscilla L. Strain

<<<Page: 281>>>

Space History Chairman Curators
Assistant Curator Historian
Laboratory for Astrophysics Chairman Astrophysicists
Interpretive Programs Assistant Director Minority Outreach Cooperative Programs Education Planetarium
Art Assistant Director
Public Affairs and Museum Services Assistant Director Publications
Collections Management Assistant Director Foreman, Preservation and Restoration Division Chief, Collections Maintenance Chief, Information Management Registrar
Administration Assistant Director Budget Analyst
Exhibits Assistant Director Chief, Design Unit Chief, Production Unit Chief, Audiovisual Unit
Gregg Herken
David H. DeVorkin Allan A. Needell Paul E. Ceruzzi Cathleen S. Lewis Joseph N. Tatarewicz Frank Winter
Derek W. Elliott Robert W. Smith
Howard A. Smith Jeffrey Jay Goldstein Matthew Greenhouse
James H. Sharp
M. Antoinette Amos Helen C. McMahon Jan McColl
James H. Sharp
Mary S. Henderson
Rita C. Cipalla Patricia J. Graboske
Linda N. Ezell
Richard. D.. Horigan,..Jr. Alfred J. Bachmeier
K. Peter Suthard
Robin A. Schroffel
Wendy A. Stephens Alice M. Adams
Nadya A.Makovenyi Lucius E. Lomax Derek P. Fiedler David N. Heck

<<<Page: 282>>>

Museum Operations Assistant Director Deputy Assistant Director
Special Assistant for Plans
and Programs Theater and Planetarium Operations Manager Museum Facilities Manager Office Automation Manager
Edmund T. Wooldridge, Jr. Ronald E. Wagaman Claude D. Russell
Steven C. Fitch
Valerie W. Matthews Alfred T. Kincaid
Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine
Editor Managing Editor Picture Editor
Publisher Advertising Director Circulation Director
Associate Publisher, Administration
Business Manager Production Manager Consultants to the Magazine
Director Associate Director for Collections and Research Assistant Director Chief Curator Curators
Public Affairs Officer
Curator of Education
Chief, Exhibits Department
Registrar
Conservator
Photo Archivist
Librarian
Writer/Editor
Photographer
Founding Director Emeritus and Senior Scholar
George Larson Tom Huntington Lee Battaglia
Joseph J. Bonsignore Louis C. Kolenda Gale Page
Carey O. Randall Diana Barclay
Sarah D. Kingsley
E. Cherry Doyle
Sylvia H. Williams
Roy Sieber
Jean M. Salan Philip Ravenhill Lydia Puccinelli Roslyn A. Walker Janice L. Kaplan Edward Lifschitz Alan Knezevich Grace Eleazer Stephen Mellor
“Judith Luskey
Janet Stanley Dean Trackman Jeffrey Ploskonka
Warren Robbins

<<<Page: 283>>>

Director
Deputy Director
Acting Assistant Director and Chief Curator
Acting Assistant Director for Museum Programs
Acting Assistant Director for Museum Resources
Administrative Officer
Research Curator
Curator-in-Charge, Renwick Gallery
Curator-in-Charge, Painting & Sculpture
Curators, Painting & Sculpture
Associate Curators, Painting and Sculpture
Curator-in-Charge, Graphic Arts Curator, Graphic Arts
Associate Curator, Graphic Arts Senior Conservator
Conservators
Registrar Associate Registrar Assistant Registrar for Packing & Shipping Chief, Office of Design and Production Chief Designer Acting Chief, Office of Research Support Coordinator, Inventories of American Paintings and Sculpture Acting Chief, Office of Publications Chief, Office of Public Affairs Chief, Office of Intern Programs Head, Special Services Programs Head, Docents & Volunteer Services Librarian NMAA/NPG Assistant Librarian NMAA/NPG Building Manager AA/PG
Elizabeth Broun Charles J. Robertson
Virginia H. Mecklenburg James W. Volkert
Eleanor E. Fink Maureen E. Damaska Lois M. Fink Michael W. Monroe
Virginia M. Mecklenburg William H. Truettner Harry Z. Rand
Robin L. Bolton-Smith Lynda Roscoe Hartigan Joann G. Moser
Merry A. Foresta Martina R. Norelli Stefano Scafetta
Ann M. Creager
R. Quentin Rankin Fern Bleckner Katherine Maynor
W. Robert Johnston Melissa L. Kroning
Michael R. Smallwood
James W. Volkert Val E. Lewton
Rachel M. Allen
Christine M. Hennessey Terence P. Winch Margery A. Byers Patricia H. Chieffo Margaret P. Cogswell Nora M. Panzer
Cecilia H. Chin Patricia M. Lynagh Mary E. Massey

<<<Page: 284>>>

Director
Deputy Director
Assistant Director for Administration Administrative Officer
Administrative Specialist
Special Assistants
Office of External Affairs Director
Public Affairs Special Events
Executive Director Curators
Executive Director Curator
Director ARCHIVES CENTER
Senior Archivist Archivists
Historian
Roger G. Kennedy Douglas E. Evelyn Ronald E. Becker Elizabeth E. Greene Shirley Vann
Naomi Glass
James D. Whoolery
Marilyn Lyons Susan Foster Elizabeth Little Anne Spivak
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli Coralee C. Gillilland Richard Doty
Herbert R. Collins James H. Bruns
James 0. Horton
John Fleckner Robert Harding Craig Orr Barbara Humphrys David Haberstich
‘Marilyn Graskowiak
Reuben Jackson Fath Davis Ruffins

<<<Page: 285>>>

OFFICE OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT Building Manager
COMPUTER SERVICES CENTER Chief
Head Conservator Conservators
Director DEPARTMENT OF EXHIBITS
Assistant Director for Exhibits Deputy Assistant Director
for Exhibits Chief, Design Division Chief, Exhibits Production Chief, Historic Restoration
Assistant Director for Public Programs
Deputy Assistant Director for Public Programs
Program Manager
Director, Program in African American History
Director, Division of Museum Programs
Director, Publications Division
Coordinator, Columbus Quincentenary Program
Intern Program Coordinator
Richard A. Day
Dennis S. Dickinson
J. Scott Odell
Martin Burke
Andrzej Dajnowski Antoinette Dwan
Lynne Gilliland
Nikki Horton
Ingrid Neuman
Beth Richwine
Suzanne Thomassen-Krauss Paulette Willman
Vacant
J. Michael Carrigan
Richard J. Nicastro Dru Colbert
Robert H. Norton Terrence Conable
Lonn Taylor
Elizabeth Sharpe Harold Closter
Gwendolyn Robinson Dwignt Blocker Bowers Robert Selim
Lisa: Falk Mary Dyer

<<<Page: 286>>>

Registrar Martha Morris Assistant Registrar Katherine P. Spiess
Director Gary Kulik DEPARTMENT OF THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Chairman Arthur P. Molella American Indian Program
Director Rayna Green Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Curators Pete Daniel G. Terry Sharrer
Division of Armed Forces History Curators Edward C. Ezell Donald E. Kloster Harold D. Langley Historian James Hutchins Curator Emeritus Philip Lundeberg Division of Computers, Information, and Society
Curators David Allison Jon B. Eklund
Division of Electricity and Modern Physics
Curators Bernard Finn Paul Forman
Division of Engineering and Industry Curators Carlene E. Stephens Steve Lubar Jeffrey Stine Division of Medical Sciences Curators Audrey B. Davis
Ramunas A. Kondratas Barbara Melosh

<<<Page: 287>>>

Division of Physical and Biological Sciences
Curators
Division of Transportation Curators Senior Historian
Senior Historian's Office Senior Historian
Technology and Culture
Editor
Deborah J. Warner Patricia Gossel Linda Tucker
William L. Withuhn Paul Johnston John H. White
Nathan Reingold
Robert Post
Chairman
Afro-American Index Project Program Specialist
Division of Ceramics and Glass Curator
Division of Community Life
Curators
Curator Emeritus Division of Costume
Curator Curator Emeritus
Division of Domestic Life
Curators
Tom D. Crouch
Eleanor Alexander
Susan H. Myers
Richard E. Ahlborn Spencer Crew Charles McGovern Bernice Reagon Carl Scheele
Claudia B. Kidwell Anne W. Murray
Anne C. Golovin Rodris C. Roth Barbara C. Smith

<<<Page: 288>>>

Division of Graphic Arts
Curators
Division of Musical History
Curators
Division of Photographic History Curator Division of Political History Curators Curator Emeritus Division of Textiles Curator Research Associates Joan R. Challinor Marsha Darling William Dowd
Sylvia Frye Sheridan Germann
Elizabeth M. Harris
Helena C. Wright
John T. Fesperman John E. Hasse Cynthia A. Hoover James Weaver
Eugene Ostroff
Edith P. Mayo Keith E. Melder Margaret B. Klapthor
Rita J. Adrosko
Stuart Goosman
Robert Hall
Aiko Herzig-Yoshinaga William Monical
Joan P. Watkins

<<<Page: 289>>>

Director
Deputy Director Aeting Director
Acting Deputy Director
Assistant Director for Special Projects
Assistant Director for Programs
Assistant Director for Development
Special Assistant to the Director
Special Assistant to the Deputy Director
Director, Quincentenary Programs
Writer-Editor
Assistant Director for Administration
Budget Analyst
Administrative Specialist
Administrative Technician
Management Analyst
Acting Assistant Director for Education
Assistant Director for the Automatic Data Program
Assistant Director for Exhibits
Assistant Director for Collections Management
Registrar
Building Manager
Supervisory Museum Specialist, Scanning Electron Microscope Laboratory
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY Chairman Administrative Specialist Collections Manager Public Information Specialist
Handbook of North American Indians
General Editor
Managing Editor
Production Manager Management Services Assistant Anthropologist
Linguist
Bibliographer
Frank H. Talbot (January 1989) James C. Tyler (January 1989) James C. Tyler (January 1988) Stanwyn G. Shetler (January 1988)
Catherine J. Kerby Stanwyn G. Shetler T. C. Benson Margaret P. Anderson
Jerome A. Conlon Herman J. Viola Thomas R. Harney
Mary Rakow Tanner Robert Knarr
Nella F. Lloyd Danielle Bielenstein Marsha Sitnik
Laura McKie
T. Gary Gautier Laurence P. O'Reilly
Janet Gomon Margaret A. Santiago Edward McCoy
Walter R. Brown
Donald J. Ortner Carole Lee Kin Candace Greene Ann Kaupp
William Cc. Sturtevant Karla Billups
Diane Della-Loggia Melvina Jackson Joanna C. Scherer
R. H. Ives Goddard III Lorraine H. Jacoby

<<<Page: 290>>>

Human Studies Film Archives Assistant Director Wendy A. Shay
National Anthropological Archives
Acting Director Carmalita Ryan Archivist James R. Glenn Assistant Archivist Paula Fleming
Latin American Anthropology
Curator Robert M. Laughlin Associate Curator William H. Crocker Expert Betty J. Meggers North American Anthropology Curators William W. Fitzhugh Dennis J. Stanford William L. Merrill William C. Sturtevant
Bruce D. Smith Associate Curator
J. Daniel Rogers Theresa A. Singleton North American Indian Program
Director JoAllyn Archambault
Old World Anthropology
Curators Adrienne Kaeppler William B. Trousdale Ivan Karp Gus Van Beek
Associate Curators
Mary Jo Arnoldi Paul Taylor Physical Anthropology Curators
Donald J. Ortner Douglas H. Ubelaker Associate Curators
Douglas Owsley Richard Potts

<<<Page: 291>>>

Linguistics
Curator
R. H. Ives Goddard III
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
James M. Adovasio (Archeology)
Larry Banks (Archeology)
David Begun (Physical Anthropology)
Michael D. Blakey (Physical Anthropology)
Kathleen J. Bragdon (Linguistics)
Alison S. Brooks (Archeology)
Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Archeology)
Aron Crowell (Archeology)
Edith Dietze (Ethnology)
Jean Paul Dumont (Ethnology)
John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology)
John Fisher (Archeology)
Don D. Fowler (Archeology)
George Frison (Archeology)
Bruno Frohlich (Physical Anthropology)
Kathleen Gordon (Physical Anthropology)
James Griffin (Archeology)
C. Vance Haynes (Archeology)
Brian Hesse (Archeology)
William Holm (Ethnology)
Neil C. Hughes (Archeology)
Bennie C. Keel (Archeology)
Jennifer 0. Kelley (Physical
Anthropology)
DEPARIMENT OF BOTANY Chairman Administrative Assistant Collections Manager Senior Botanists
Mason E. Hale, Jr.
Richard T. Koritzer (Physical Anthropology)
Paulina Ledergerber (Archeology)
Jerald T. Milanich (Archeology)
Chris Nagle (Archeology)
Michael O'Brien (Archeology)
Michael Petraglia (Physical Anthropology)
Stephen Potter (Archeology)
James Price (Archeology)
Bruce D. Ragsdale (Pathology)
Leslie Rankin-Hill (Physical Anthropology)
Mary Elizabeth Reeve (Ethnology)
Lucile E. St. Hoyme (Physical Anthropology)
Abelardo Sandoval (Archeology)
Robert G. Schmidt (Geology)
T. Dale Stewart (Physical Anthropology)
Maurizio Tosi (Archeology)
John Verano (Physical Anthropology)
Alan Walker (Paleoanthropology)
Paula Wapnish (Archeology)
Mildred M. Wedel (Archeology and Ethnohistory)
Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)
Rita Wright (Physical Anthropology)
Laurence S. Skog Linda Moreland George F. Russell
Mark M. Littler

<<<Page: 292>>>

Phanerogams Curators Dan H. Nicolson Stanwyn G. Shetler Laurence E. Skog Associate Curators Pedro Acevedo Robert B. Faden Vicki A. Funk Ferns Curator Grasses Curator Cryptogams Curators James N. Norris Associate Curators Maria A. Faust Palynology Curator
Plant Anatomy
Curator
Research Associates, Collaborators,
Katina Bucher (Algae)
George Bunting (Araceae)
Pamela Burns-Balogh (Orchidaceae)
David Challinor (Forestry and Tropical Biology)
Loren Coen (Marine Algae) Jose Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical South America) Alva G. Day (Polemoniaceae) Gerald F. Deitzer (Plant
Physiology)
Dieter C. Wasshausen John J. Wurdack
E. John Kress Warren L. Wagner
David B. Lellinger
Paul M. Peterson
Harold E. Robinson
Jeanine Olsen
Joan W. Nowicke
Richard H. Eyde and Affiliated Scientists
James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)
Patricia M. Eckel (Mosses)
Christian P. Feuillet (Gesneriaceae)
Anthony Fletcher (Lichen)
F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Island Plants)
Suzanne Fredericg (Gracilariaceae)
Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)
Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)
Vv oo 1

<<<Page: 293>>>

Mark Edward Hay (Marine Algae)
Otto Huber (Plant Ecology)
Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. (Rubiaceae)
Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology)
Diane S. Littler (Marine Algae)
Carlos Lopez-Ocana (Ecology)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)
Carlos Ochoa (Solanum)
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
John Pipoly (Plant systematics)
Thompson Pizzolato (Agrostology)
Mark Plotkin (Ethnobotany)
Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae)
Robert W. Read (Neotropical Palms & Bromeliads)
DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY Chairman Collections Manager Senior Scientist Administrative Assistant Coleoptera Curators Terry L. Erwin Hemiptera Curator Hymenoptera
Senior Scientist Curator
Lepidoptera Curators Associate Curator Myriapoda and Arachnida
Associate Curator
Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams)
James Reveal (Polygonaceae)
Amy Y. Rossman (Fungi)
Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae)
Edith E. B. Scott (Bryophyta)
Celia Smith (Algae)
Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)
Claudia Sobrevila (Tropical Plant Biology)
Richard W. Spjut (Lichens)
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
Bruce A. Stein (Neotropical Plants)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
Christopher E. Tanner (Marine Botanical Systematics)
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams )
Ronald J. McGinley
Gary F. Hevel Karl V. Krombein
Marie Westfall
Paul J. Spangler
Richard C. Froeschner
Karl V. Krombein Ronald J. McGinley
John M. Burns Don R. Davis Robert K. Robbins
Jonathan A. Coddington

<<<Page: 294>>>

Neuropteroids and Diptera
Curators
Oliver S. Flint, Jr. Wayne N. Mathis
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Joachim Adis (Coleoptera) Annette Aiello (Lepidoptera) Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera) Edward W. Baker (Acarina) Charles L. Bellamy (Coleoptera) William F. Bickley (Diptera) Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera) J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera) Carleton M. Clifford (Ixodoidea) Margaret Collins (Orthoptera) Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka) Terhune Dickel (Lepidoptera) Lance Durden (Siphonaptera) K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga) Neal F. Evenhuis (Diptera) John H. Fales (Lepidoptera) Candida Feller (Diptera) Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera) — Richard H. Foote (Diptera) John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera) Raymond J. Gagne (Diptera) Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera) E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera Ralph E. Harbach (Diptera) Bruce A. Harrison (Diptera) Thomas J. Henry (Hemiptera) Yiau-Min Huang (Diptera) James E. Keirans (Ixodoidea) John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera) Lloyd V. Knutson (Diptera) Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera) Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera) Mary Frances Mickevich (Methodology/Theory) Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera) Scott E. Miller (Microlepidoptera)
Charles Mitter (Lepidoptera) Steve Nakahara (Thysanoptera) David F. Nickle (Orthoptera) Beth B. Norden (Hymenoptera) Allen L. Norrbom (Diptera) Paul A. Opler (Lepidoptera) David L. Pearson (Coleoptera) Philip Perkins (Coleoptera) Robert V. Peterson (Diptera) E. L. Peyton (Diptera) Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera) Robert W. Poole (Lepidoptera) John R. Reinert (Diptera) Mark J. Rothschild (Homoptera) Louise M. Russell (Homoptera) Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera) Silvia Santiago (Coleoptera) Michael E. Schauff (Hymenoptera) Petra Sierwald (Arachnida) Robert L. Smiley (Acarina) David R. Smith (Hymenoptera) M. Alma Solis (Lepidoptera) Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera) George C. Steyskal (Diptera) Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera) F. Christian Thompson (Diptera) Robert Traub (Siphonaptera) Katsuji Tsuneki (Hymenoptera) George Vogt (Coleoptera) Ronald A. Ward (Medical Entomology) Richard E. White (Coleoptera) Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera) Willis W. Wirth (Diptera) Norman E. Woodley (Diptera) David Wooldridge (Coleoptera) Frank Young (Coleoptera)

<<<Page: 295>>>

Chairman Purchasing Agent Administrative Assistant
Crustacea Curators J. Laurens Barnard Thomas E. Bowman
Roger F. Cressey GoW. Hart tor.
Echinoderms and Lower Invertebrates
Curators
Frederick M. Bayer Stephen D. Cairns
Mollusks Curators Richard S. Houbrick Associate Curators M. G. Harasewych Worms Curators
Kristian Fauchald
CWS “Harry oie Roland H. Brown Martha V. Joynt
Robert P. Higgins Brian F. Kensley Louis S. Kornicker Raymond B. Manning
David L. Pawson Klaus Ruetzler
Clyde F. E. Roper
Robert Hershler
Meredith L. Jones
W. Duane Hope Mary E. Rice
Registry of Tumors in Lower Animals Director John Harshbarger Biological Lab Technician Sunthorn Sirivanakarm Biological Research Technician Normal Wolcott Biological Lab Technician Kathy Price Research Assistant Marilyn Slatick Museum Specialist Phyllis Spero

<<<Page: 296>>>

Research Associates, Collaborators,
J. Bruce Bredin
Fenner A. Chace, Jr. (Emeritus Zoologist)
Steven Chambers
Sing Chen Chang (Emeritus Zoologist)
Elizabeth Chornesky
Maureen E. Downey
Joan D. Ferraris
Stephen J. Gardiner
Terrence M. Gosliner
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. (Emeritus Zoologist)
Lipke B. Holthuis
J. Ralph Lichtenfels
Patsy McLaughlin
Charles G. Messing
Curator
Associate Curator
Geochemist Mineralogy
Curator Associate Curator
Crystallographer Petrology and Volcanology Curators
Richard S. Fiske William G. Melson
Associate Curator Physical Sciences Laboratory Chemists
Eugene Jarosewich
Electronics Technician
and Affiliated Scientists
John E. Miller
Isabel Perez-Farfante (Canet)
Esther C. Peters
Richard E. Petit
Marian H. Pettibone (Emeritus Zoologist)
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder (Emeritus Zoologist)
Janet W. Reid
i..2G.,Sehn
Ronald B. Toll
Paul N. Turner
Michael Vecchione
Geerhart J. Vermeij
Austin B. Williams
David K. Young
Daniel Appleman Ellen Thurnau
Roy S. Clarke, Jr. Glenn J.MacPherson Kurt Fredriksson
John Sampson White Jeffrey Post Daniel E. Appleman
Tom Simkin
Sorena Sorensen
Joseph A. Nelen
James E. Collins

<<<Page: 297>>>

Scientific Events Alert Network
Museum Specialist
Research Associates, Collaborators,
Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites)
Cathy Busby-Spera (Petrology)
Gary R. Byerly (Petrology)
Felix Chayes (Petrology and Volcanology)
Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites)
John Filson (Petrology and Volcanology)
Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy)
Martin Flower (Petrology and Volcanology)
Chairman Curators Emeritus (Not in Residence)
Administrative Assistant Collections Manager Deputy Collections Manager Paleobiological Information Specialist Scientific Illustrator Vertebrate Paleontology Preparation Laboratory, Supervisor Acting Supervisor
Senior Scientists
Richard H. Benson Alan H. Cheetham
Geologist Curators
Walter H. Adey
Anna K. Behrensmeyer Martin A. Buzas Robert J. Emry Nicholas Hotton III
ie) ‘© te
Lindsay R. McClelland and Affiliated Scientists
Edward Henderson (Meteorites)
Peter Levens (Mineralogy)
Brian H. Mason (Meteorites)
Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy)
Debra S. Stakes (Petrology and Volcanology)
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology and Volcanology)
Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology and Volcanology)
Jack W. Pierce Richard S. Boardman G. Arthur Cooper Porter M. Kier
Betty M. Lomax Frederick J. Collier Jann W. M. Thompson
Raymond T. Rye II Mary A. Parrish
Arnold D. Lewis (Retired 5/31/89)
Frederic V. Grady (Appointed 6/1/83)
Richard E. Grant Daniel J. Stanley Kenneth M. Towe
Ian G. Macintyre
Frances M. Hueber Jack W. Pierce Clayton E. Ray Thomas R. Waller

<<<Page: 298>>>

Associate Curators
William A. DiMichele Brian T. Huber (Appointed 11/21/88)
Scott L. Wing
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Stephen J. Culver Ted E. Delaca
Daryl P. Domning Raymond C. Douglass J. Thomas Dotro, Jr. Ralph E. Eshelman Karl W. Flessa Thomas G. Gibson Mackenzie Gordon, Jr. Richard R. Graus John M. Hackney
S. Taseer Hussain Marcus M. Key, Jr. Carl F. Koch Sergius H. Mamay Suzan Mazer
Chairman Jr. Collections Managers
Administrative Assistant Fishes Curators
Victor G. Springer Richard P. Vari
Associate Curator
Jerry N. McDonald Robert B. Neuman William A. Oliver, Jr. David B. Packer
John Pojeta, Jr.
Bruce Runnegar William J. Sando David E. Schindel Judith Skog
Norman F. Sohl
I. Gregory Sohn Steven M. Stanley Hans-Dieter Sues Joshua I. Tracey Arthur D. Watt
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr. Druid Wilson Christopher Wnuk Ellis L. Yochelson
Richard W. Thorington, J. Phillip Angle Elyse J. Beldon
Linda K. Gordon
Susan L. Jewett Charles W. Potter Jeffery T. Williams Sybil Descheemaeker
Stanley H. Weitzman
G. David Johnson

<<<Page: 299>>>

Amphibians and Reptiles Curators W. Ronald Heyer Birds Curators Storrs L. Olson Associate Curator Mammals Curators
Michael D. Carleton Charles O. Handley, Jr.
Office of the Secretary Emeritus
Secretary Emeritus Administrative Assistant Museum Specialist Secretary
George R. Zug
Richard L. Zusi
Gary R. Graves
James G. Mead Richard W. Thorington, Jr.
S. Dillon Ripley Mary Pacaro
Bruce M. Beehler Rachel A. Simpson
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists
Richard C. Banks (Birds) Jonathan J. Becker (Birds) Bruce M. Beehler (Birds) Heraldo A. Britski (Fishes) Eleanor D. Brown (Birds) Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals) John Cadle (Amphibians and Reptiles) Peter F. Cannell (Birds) Roger B. Clapp (Birds) Bruce B. Collette (Fishes) G. Ken Creighton (Mammals) C. Kenneth Dodd, Jr. (Amphibians and Reptiles) Louise H. Emmons (Mammals) Carl H. Ernst (Amphibians and Reptiles) Sara V. Fink (Fishes) William L. Fink (Fishes) Mercedes S. Foster (Birds) John G. Frazier (Mammals) Thomas H. Fritts (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)
J. Whitfield Gibbons (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Michael Goulding (Fishes)
Richard Highton (Amphibians
and Reptiles)
Peter W. Houde (Birds)
Morton and Phyllis Isler (Birds)
Richard F. Kay (Mammals)
Irving L. Kornfield (Fishes)
William H. Krueger (Fishes)
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)
John M. Legler (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Antonio Machado-Allison (Fishes)
Francisco Mago-Leccia (Fishes)
Joe T. Marshall (Birds)
Linda R. Maxon (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Roy W. McDiarmid (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Naercio A. Menezes (Fishes)

<<<Page: 300>>>

Joseph C. Mitchell (Amphibians
and Reptiles) Thomas A. Munroe (Fishes) Lynne R. Parenti (Fishes) William F. Perrin (Mammals) Allan R. Phillips (Birds)
Gregory K. Pregill (Amphibians
and Reptiles) John E. Randall (Fishes) Randall R. Reeves (Mammals) S. Dillon Ripley (Birds) Sentiel Rommel (Mammals) Carol Ruckdeschel (Amphibians and Reptiles) Alan H. Savitzky (Amphibians and Reptiles) Albert Schwartz (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Norman J. Scott, Jr. (Amphibians and Reptiles)
William F. Smith-Vaniz (Fishes)
Thomas W. Stafford, Jr. (Birds)
David W. Steadman (Birds)
Kenneth J. Sulak (Fishes)
Stephen G. Tilley (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Merrill Varn (Mammals)
Richard J. Wassersug (Amphibians and Reptiles)
Marilyn Weitzman (Fishes)
John S. Weske (Birds)
Edward O. Wiley (Fishes)
James D. Williams (Fishes)
Don E. Wilson (Mammals)
Director Administrative Assistant Marine Biologists
Frank D. Ferrari Leslie W. Knapp Rafael Lemaitre
Exrnani G. Menez Patricia K. Buckley
Ernani G. Menez Jon L. Norenburg
Scientist-In-Charge Administrative Assistant
Research Assistants
William D. Lee Julianne Piraino
Director
Administrative Specialist
Data Administrator
Facility Manager
Assistant Facility Manager
Chief, Information Management Section
Mary E. Rice Joan L. Kaminski
Sherry Anne Reed Hugh F. Reichardt
U. Vincent Wilcox Patti B. Young Joan B. Andrews Charles E. Dunn George Bolden
David Bridge

<<<Page: 301>>>

Director :
Assistant Director for Collections
Assistant Director for History and Public Programs
Executive Officer
Curator of Painting and Sculpture
Curator of Exhibitions
Associate Curator of Painting and Sculpture
Curator of Prints
Curator of Photographs
Curator of Education
Editor of Publications
Chief, Design and Production
Keeper, Catalog of American Portraits
Editor of the Charles Willson Peale Papers and Historian of American Culture
Librarian
Conservator
Senior Photographer
Registrar Public Affairs Officer
Director
Administrative Officer
Assistant Director/Chief of Design and Editing
Assistant Director/Chief of Production
Supervisor, Fabrication
Supervisor, Graphics Unit
Supervisor, Model Shop
Director (Acting) Program Manager Administrative Officer Administrative Assistant Landscape Architect Greenhouse Manager Grounds Manager
Alan Fern Carolyn K. Carr
Marc Pachter Barbara A. Hart Robert G. Stewart Beverly J. Cox
Ellen Miles
Wendy Wick Reaves William F. Stapp Harry Jackson Frances K. Stevenson Nello Marconi
Linda Thrift (appointed 1/15/89)
Lillian B. Miller Cecilia Chin CindyLou Molnar Ockershausen Rolland White
(appointed 10/9/88) Suzanne Jenkins Sue Ann Kendall
Vacant Eva Goodwin
Karen Fort
Walter Sorrell Kenneth Clevinger Patricia Burke Ben Snouffer
Kathryn R. Meehan Vacant
Peter J. Nerret Vacant
Paul H. Lindell Barbara Faust Kenneth Hawkins

<<<Page: 302>>>

The staff listing below represents all staff who worked in the
OMP during FY89.
The Office began a reorganization in the second
half of the year with subsequent staff changes.
October, 1988-April, 1989: Jane Glaser
Eleanor Coombs
Christine Murray
Wendy Jessup
Susanne Harlandt
Artemis Zenetou
Charis Warchal
Bruce C. Craig
Nancy Fuller Gayle Edmunds Laura Schneider Steven Cupp
Bettie Lee Denise Yver
April, 1989-September, 1989:
James E. Sims
Eleanor Coombs Christine Murray
Curriculum Programs Theresa LaMaster Bettie Lee
Heather Baker Professional Services
Bruce ‘Cc. ‘Craig
Gayle Edmunds Joe Nicely
Publications Program
Nancy Fuller
Director Administrative Officer Secretary
Workshop Coordinator
On-Site Workshop Coordinator Workshop Coordinator Workshop Assistant
Internships and Visiting Professionals Coordinator
Native American Museums Coordinator
NAMP Program Assistant
Program
Audiovisual Program Manager Audiovisual Program Coordinator Audiovisual Program Coordinator Audiovisual Program Assistant
Acting Director Administrative Officer Secretary
Curriculum Programs Manager Workshops Coordinator Program Assistant
Professional Services Program Manager Visitor Coordinator
Program Assistant
Publications Manager

<<<Page: 303>>>

Administration Director Anna R. Cohn Associate Director ; for Administration Linda Bell Budget and Accounting Services Marie-Claire Jean Allegra Wright Staff Training Dale Alward Office Manager Kenneth D. Fenty Exhibitor Relations\External Affairs Program Research and Grants Dee Bennett Audience Survey Research Claire Fronville Public Relations liz Bill) Exhibition Scheduling Carol Harsh Program Services Associate Director for Programs Eileen Rose Exhibition Organization Anne Gossett Lori Dempsey
Lesley O'Malley
Exhibition Interpretation Myriam Springuel Laurie Trippett Fredrica Adelman Germaine Juneau Gail Kaplan
Exhibition Registration Lee Williams Fredric Williams Viki Possoff Josette Cole
Exhibition Preduction Betty Teller Betsy Hennings Crisley McCarson Meredith McPherson
Publications Publications Director Andrea Stevens Editorial Services David Andrews
Melissa Hirsch

<<<Page: 304>>>

Assistant Secretary
Deputy Assistant Secretary
Deputy Assistant Secretary/Media Affairs
Administrative Officer
Executive Assistant
Special Assistant
Special Assistant
Program Specialist
Fiscal Assistant
Secretary
Secretary
Special Assistant for Media Activities
Editor-in-Chief, Optical Publishing
Special Advisor for Telecommunications
Executive Director
Deputy Director
Director of Publications
Financial Officer
Outreach Consultant
Publications/Technology Specialist
Administrative Assistant
Program Assistant
Director, Science and Technology for Children (STC) Project
Research Specialist, STC Project
Research Specialist, STC Project
Research Specialist, STC Project
Research Specialist, STC Project
Research Specialist, STC Project
Director Deputy Director Director of Outreach Programs Publications Coordinator Coordinator of Teacher Services Writer/Editor Career Awareness Coordinator Career Awareness
Education Specialist Special Education Specialist Education Specialist
Ralph Rinzler James C. Early Robert A. Dierker
Ernestine A. Potter Mary Lynne McElroy Margaret A.H. Bertin Rosemary Leonard Manjula Kumar
Carol F. Anderson Annette C. Sukarloo Pamela Deutsch Andrew Ferguson
Glen Hoptman
Thomas H. Wolf
Douglas M. Lapp Sally G. Shuler Kit Johnson Shirley Ash Olive Covington Tim Falb
Toni Brady Altoria Bell
Joe Griffith
Pat McGlashan Seliesa Pembleton Dorothee Goldman David Hartney Judy Grumbacher
Ann Bay
Thomas E. Lowderbaugh Janice Majewski Michelle Smith
Clare Cuddy
Betsy Eisendrath Montrose Cones
Maria Cristina Garcia Beth Anne Shaw Julia Langdon

<<<Page: 305>>>

Acting Director Administrative Officer Director, Folkways Records Senior Folklorist
Senior Ethnomusicologist Festival Director Folklorists
Curator, Hawai'i Program Education Specialist Festival Services Manager Designer Technical Coordinator Program Specialist Archives Technician Audio Visual Production Assistant Folkways Specialist Folkways Assistants
Assistant Archivist Fiscal Technician Secretary to the Director Clerk/Typist
Richard Kurin
Jewell Dulaney Anthony Seeger
Peter Seitel
Thomas Vennun, Jr. Diana Parker
Olivia Cadaval Marjorie Hunt
Phyllis May-Machunda Heliana Portes de Roux Frank Proschan Nicholas Spitzer Richard Kennedy
Betty Belanus
Barbara Strickland Daphne Shuttleworth
R. Fred Nahwooksy, Jr. Arlene Liebenau
Cc. Jeffrey Place
Guha Shankar Dudley Connell Linda Breitag Edward O'Reilly Lori Taylor Claudia Telliho Diane Green Minu Tahmassebi
Chairman
Acting Director Special Assistant Special Assistant Program Specialist Administrative Officer
Wilton S. Dillon Carla M. Borden Neil G. Kotler Dave Warren
John W. Franklin Teresa P. Johnson

<<<Page: 306>>>

Director
Special Assistant to the Director Administrative Officer
Secretary to the Director
Publications
Associate Director Staff
News Bureau
Associate Director Staff
Director
Deputy Director
Media Project Development Specialist Marketing and Promotion Specialist Audio/Visual Production Specialists
Radio Production Specialists
Motion Picture Production Specialist TV Production Specialist , Acministration Officer
Madeleine Jacobs Eileen Hall Carolyn Amundson Michelle Carr
Kathryn Lindeman John Barrat
Mary Combs
Peggy Langrall Antoinette van Zelm Jo Ann Webb
Lilas Wiltshire
Linda St.Thomas Coral Alpay Johnnie Douthis Gabriela Frings Cynthia Haley Leslie Logan (intern) David Maxfield Kimberly Mayfield Ink Mendelsohn Vicki Moeser William Schulz Rachel Sears

<<<Page: 307>>>

Director
Deputy Director Assistant Director, Assistant Director, Assistant Director, Assistant Director, Assistant Director,
Acquisitions
General Publications Financial Management Marketing Smithsonian Books
Administrative Officer
Felix C. Lowe Vincent L. MacDonnell Daniel H. Goodwin Ruth W. Spiegel
John R. Ouellette Gail Grella
Patricia Gallagher Dorothy Blaska
University Press Division
Editor, Special Projects
Acquisitions Editor, General Humanities Acquisitions Editor, Natural Sciences
Managing Editor, Series Publications
Production Manager Design Manager Permissions
Martin Williams Amy Pastan Theresa Slowik/ Peter Cannell Barbara Spann Kathleen Brown Alan Carter Susan Cook
Smithsonian Books Division
Senior Editor
Recordings Division
Executive Producer Editorial & Design Coordinator
Book Development
Executive Editor, Book Development
Design Coordinator
Smithsonian Magazine
Editor
Board of Editors: Constance Bond Caroline A. Despard Jim Doherty Timothy Foote Marlane A. Liddell
Publisher
Associate Publisher, Advertising Associate Publisher, Circulation Associate Publisher, Administration Circulation Director
Director of Production
Consultants to the Magazine
Alexis Doster III
Margaret Robinson Jane Sapp
Maureen R. Jacoby/ Caroline Newman Paula Dailey
Don Moser
Bennett Schiff Nancy Seaman
Paul Trachtman John P. Wiley, Jr.
Joseph J. Bonsignore Thomas H. Black
John O'Donnell
Carey O. Randall Adeline Sherr
E. Cherry Doyle Edward K. Thompson Anne Keating

<<<Page: 308>>>

Executive Producer Adrian Malone
Senior Producer Sandra Wentworth Bradley Series Coordinator Kalindi Corens Production Associate Brent Rains
Production Assistant Mary Pratt
Director Executive Officer Assistant for Outreach (Acting)
Unit Manager, Information Resources Division
Unit Manager, Public Inquiry Mail and Telephone Information Services Unit
Unit Manager, 7-Day Information Service Unit
Unit Manager, Staff, Volunteer, and Intern Services
Mary Grace Potter Elizabeth Bennett Barbara Bodengraven
Jane Gardner
Katherine Neill
Sherrie Chapman
Nancy Hinton
Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
Assistant Secretary Thomas E. Lovejoy Deputy Assistant Secretary Vacant
Executive Assistant Carmen Thorndike Research Assistant Martha Hays Cooper Office Assistant Lydia Wallick Staff Assistant Lois Noack
List Manager Christine Louton

<<<Page: 309>>>

Deputy Assistant Secretary for External Affairs/Director of Membership and Development
Deputy Director
Director of Development Activities
Development Officers
Technical Information Officer
Special Assistant to the Director
Administrative Officer
Thomas McCance, Jr. E. Jeffrey Stann
Diana Duncan Donna Ari
Elba Arrocha Arthur Gardner Bonnie Miller Marita O'Hare Michael Syphax Margaret Turner Susan Kalcik
Gwendolen Leighty Carol Nottingham
Director
Lecture and Seminar
Joseph Carper
and Research Expedition Programs
Program Manager
Charlene James-Duguid
Contributing Membership Program
Program Manager
Corporate Associate Program
Program Manager
Associates Travel Program
Program Manager
Fern Segerlind
Neill Heath
Barbara Tuceling

<<<Page: 310>>>

Director
Associate Director, Administration Associate Director, Programming Program Managers
Program Coordinators
Editor
Assistant Editor
Development Officer
Public Affairs Officer
Membership and Registration Manager
Assistant Membership and Registration Manager
Assistant Registration Manager
Marketing Manager
Business Office Manager
Volunteer Coordinator
Director Special Events Coordinators
Secretary
Director
Congressional Relations Specialist Congressional Relations Specialist Congressional Relations Assistant
Janet W. Solinger Michael Cassidy Edmund H. Worthy, Jr. Roslyn C. Beitler Anna Caraveli
Joanne Gigliotti Moya B. King
Marcus L. Overton Katherine Wood
Susan Lee Swarthout Penelope Pigott Dann Margo Del Vecchio Karen M. Gray Harriet McNamee Kathryn Stafford Edward Taylor Jacqueline Hicks Grazette Joan Cole
Dennis R. Smoot
Claudette E. Moore Xenia Sorokin Arnelle Frances C. Jacobowitz Crystal Pruitt Fleary Susan R. Mond
Barbara Spraggins Edmund Anderson Kathleen Bauer Cheryl Gibney Maria Chavez
Margaret C. Gaynor Carey M. Wilkins Manuel J. Melendez Mariko C. Murray
Assistant Secretary Alice Green Burnette Special Assistant Daniel K. Stevenson Program Officer Lois A. Noack
Secretary Donna R. Attaway

<<<Page: 311>>>

Assistant Secretary John F. Jameson
Deputy Assistant Secretary Elizabeth Beuck Derbyshire Special Assistant Howard Toy
Ombudsman Chandra P. Heilman
Director Will Douglas, Jr. Program Manager Carol Gover Program Manager, Complaints Robert L. Osborne Program Manager, Affirmative Action Diane Cook-Lee
OFFICE OF FACILITIES SERVICES Director Richard L. Siegle
Director Cynthia R. Field Historic Preservation Specialist Amy Ballard Registrar, Smithsonian Furnishings
Collection Richard E. Stamm Conservator, Smithsonian Furnishings
Collection Peter L. Muldoon Senior Architectural Historian Rafael Crespo Senior Architectural Historian Mina Marefat Records Manager Beatrice Hurd
Director Phillip K. Reiss Deputy Director David L. Slingerland Manager, Management Systems Staff James N. Guandolo Chief, Planning Division Harold J. Rombach Chief, Design Division William L. Thomas Chief, Construction Division Thomas P. Myers Program Manager, NMAH Aris T. Allen Program Manager, NMNH Don W. Dormstetter
Director F. William Billingsley Executive Officer Andrew W. McCoy Chief, Environmental Management
Division Ruth E. Lantzy Chief, Fire Protection Division J. Andrew Wilson Chief, Safety Division Walter G. Bailey

<<<Page: 312>>>

Director Deputy Director Administrative Officer Assistant Director, Physical Plant Services Chief, Utilities Operations Chief, Crafts Operations Assistant Director, Engineering and Support Services Chief, Engineering Services Chief, Support Services
Director
Deputy Director
Administrative Officer
Chief, Protection Service
Chief, Security Systems Division Chief, Security Services Division Medical Officer
Security Officer, Cooper-Hewitt
Michael R. League Michael J. Sofield Judith A. Cooper
William M. Adams Harry I. Goodman John W. Libby
Lawrence D. Stuebing Howard Wink, Jr.
Charles W. Arthur, Jr.
Robert B. Burke
G. Clifford Boocks Robert D. Seabolt Jay W. Chambers Barton B. Rinehart Thomas W. Bresson J. Andrew Armer, Luis A. Palau
Director
Acting Manager, Information System Division
Manager, Computer Systems Management Div.
Manager, Communication Management Div.
Manager, Information Management Division
Manager, Information Support Services Division
Administrative Officer
Director Assistant Director Chief, Operations
Acting Director
Assistant Director for Operations
Acting Assistant Director for Policy and Programs
Benefits Officer
Labor Relations Officer
Vincent J. Marcalus
William Lawson George Anderson John Moreci
Rae L. Thompson
Joseph Russo Donald L. Wilhelm
John G. Motheral James M. Young Iris Pickens
Barry M. Pierce Peter McSwain
Nancy L. Johns Anthony Kohlrus Nancy L. Johns

<<<Page: 313>>>

Director Nancy D. Suttenfield Assistant Director, Planning Robert L. Farrell Assistant Director, Federal Compliance
and Reporting Mary J. Rodriguez Assistant Director, Budget Formulation
and Execution Richard S. Haas
Director James H. Wallace, Jr. Deputy Director Lorie H. Aceto Production Control Officer Mary Ellen McCaffrey Chief, Special Events/Photography Branch Richard Hofmeister Chief, Laboratory Branch Edes H. Talman
Chief, Services Branch Joyce M. Goulait Chief, NASM Branch Dale Hrabak
Chief, NMNH Branch Victor Krantz
Chief, Color Branch Joe A. Goulait
Chief, Duplicating Branch Herman Thompson
Director Robert P. Perkins Deputy Director John W. Cobert Manager, Contracts and Procurement
Divisions Vacant Chief, Contracts Division George J. Zumpf Chief, Procurement Division Helen L. Donaldson Manager, Programs and Property Divisions Robert J. Lewin Chief, Property Management Division Joseph W. Swihart Administrative Officer Willa H. Afshar
Director Judith Petroski Travel Assistant Carol P. Ailes

<<<Page: 314>>>

Chairman ArTELSt Lc Director
Ralph P. Davidson Marta Istomin
Director
Director
Associate Director Associate Director Associate Director
Director Deputy Director/
Alliance for Arts Education Theater for Young People National Symphony Orchestra American College
Theater Festival
Director
Personnel Manager Payroll Manager Controller
Data Systems Manager Budget Director
Archie L. Buffkins
Jillian H. Poole Marc Breslaw Barbara A. Hall Thomas J. Mader
Jack W. Kukuk
David R. Humphrey Carole C. Sullivan Carole J. Wysocki
David Young
Clifton B. Jeter Sandra E. Bissell
Lee Caldwell
Nancy H. Fleeter Steven D. Hacker Kathleen L. Plovanich
Director
Director
Director of Procurement Director of Planning and Building Services
Peg Allen
Geraldine M. Otremba Thomas A. Hickok
Beth W. Newbold
ws) Oo \o

<<<Page: 315>>>

General Manager ~ Drew Murphy
of Theaters Administrator for
Artistic Programming .Sheldon Schwartz Theater Operations Manager Randy Weeks
PUBLIC AFFAIRS, MARKETING AND ADVERTISING Division Director/
Director of Public Affairs Laura Longley Director of Media Relations Tiki Davies Director of Marketing John H. McAuliffe Director of Advertising Joanne B. Steller
Director Charlotte Woolard
Executive Director Stephen Klein General Manager Richard B. Hancock

<<<Page: 316>>>

Office of the President President a
Office of the Director Director. .< F : Special Assistant Executive Assistant
Office of the Deputy Director
Deputy Director 3 :
Curator of .-Bducatiom.:*) <2) -.-%
BGitor: ci~
Chief of Exhibition Programs.
Executive Librarian . .
Chief, Photographic Laboratory.
Head, Photographic Services
Head, Extension Programs.
Acting Head, Art Information Service :
Curator of Photographic ATCHIVES «xine:
Chief, Department of Design and .Instaliationmiy+.; .. +
Managing Curator, Records and Loans
Registrar :
Head, Department “of Loans and National Lending Service.
Assistant to the ae Director. rast fe
Curators
Sentor Curator, Curator of Prints and Drawings ‘
Curator of French Prints.
Curator of Italian Drawings
Curator of Contemporary Prints. Curators of Northern Renaissance bei 9 4 oS 9 2 ee a ee a Curator of Southern Renaissance PASTE Sas! Sus 5A. a! cela Curator of Northern Baroque Pawme ines ioe Sek ek See ate Curator of Southern Baroque. POs: Pe ce ca! a hae Curator of American Art Curator of Sculpture. . Curator of Modern Painting. Curator of Twentieth-Century Art .. Be ih oe Chief of Conservation
John R. Stevenson
J. Carter Brown Robert Bowen Angela LoRe
Roger Mandle Linda Downs Frances Smyth
D. Dodge Thompson Neal T. Turtell Richard Amt
Ira A. Bartfield Ruth: Re: Per lin
Christopher With Ruth Rowe Philbrick Gaillard F. Ravenel
Suzannah Fabing Mary E. Suzor
Stephanie Belt
Carol Kelley
Andrew C. Robison, Jr.
H. Diane Russell
Margaret Morgan Grasselli
Ruth Fine
John O. Hand
David A. Brown Arthur K. Wheelock Diane DeGrazia Nicolai Cikovsky Douglas Lewis
Charles S. Moffett
Jack Cowart Ross M. Merrill

<<<Page: 317>>>

Office of External Affairs External Affairs Officer. Special Events. Public Information. Corporate Relations
President's Office, Special Project, Patrons' Permanent
PRTG ries te, 5) ak tei Music
Joseph J. Krakora Genevra Higginson Ruth Kaplan Elizabeth A. C. Weil
Laura E. Smith George Manos
Office of the ag ci aa alan Counsel
Secretary-General Counsel
Associate Secretary-General Counsel os an SE
Assistant Secretary ne
Chief Archivist, Gallery Archives.
Center for Advanced SryeaE in the
Dean. Associate Dean.
Office of the Treasurer Treasurer area ue Assistant Troscuses a a
Office of the Administrator
Administrator Personnel Officer Facility Manager.
Chairman of the Board
President
Director of Special Projects
Director of Development
Director of Supplier and Organizational Relations
Director of Finance
Director of Programs
Director, Systems, Computer and Support Operations
Manager, Computer and Support Services
Deputy Director, Finance
Senior Writer/Editor
Manager of Educational Services
Program Coordinator
shite)
Philip. C...dsessup,.ir.:
Elizabeth A. Croog Kathryn K. Bartfield
Maygene Daniels
Visual Arts Henry A. Millon Marianna S. Simpson
Daniel Herrick Michael W. Levine
Anne B. Evans Michael B. Bloom Gregg A. Reynolds
Mrs. Elliot Richardson Roth Graves
Nancy Sullivan
Wade St. Clair
Barbara B. Atkinson Christina Mead James Wendorf
Don Perron
Mary Weaver
Donna M. Wagley Gail Oerke Victoria J. Heland Krystal Patrick

<<<Page: 318>>>

Director
Deputy Director
Associate Director
Director of Publications
Assistant Director for Fellowships
Director of Development
Librarian
Special Assistant to the Director
Special Assistant to the Director for Public Affairs
Program Director, American Society and Politics
Program Director, Asia
Program Director, East Europe
Program Director, International Security Studies
Program Director, Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies
Program Director, Latin America
Program Director, West Europe
Project Director, Media Studies
Publisher, Wilson Quarterly
Editor, Wilson Quarterly
Charles Blitzer
Samuel F. Wells, Jr.
Jon E. Yellin
Glenn W. LaFantasie Ann C. Sheffield Moira E. Egan zdenek V. David Dominic S. Cooper
George L. Seay
Michael J. Lacey Mary B. Bullock John R. Lampe
Robert S. Litwak
Blair A. Ruble Joseph S. Tulchin Michael H. Haltzel Philip S. Cook Warren B. Syer
Jay Tolson

<<<Page: 319>>>

Appendix 7
Donors to the Smithsonian in Fiscal Year 1989
The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s fnends for their generous financial support, for their gifts to the collections, and for in-kind donations, each category being listed separately below. Within these categories donors are listed by bureau of office, with a brief description of the gift where appropriate. If perchance the name of any donor has been omitted from these lists, it is an inadvertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian wishes to thank them, too, for their generosity.
Donors of Financial Support
Donors of Financial Support
$500,000 or more $1,000 or more Sociedad Estatal para la Smithsonian Outreach Fund Ejecucion de Programas del Xerox Corporation Quinto Centenario Citicorp/Citibank Sociedad General de Television Neill and Company S.A. $100,000 or more $500 or more Smithsonian Special Exhibition The Honorable William A. Fund Hewitt
Rockefeller Foundation
$10,000 or more National Science Foundation U.S. Agency for International Development UNESCO U.S./Man and the Biosphere Program

<<<Page: 320>>>

Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more $1,000 or more
Barbara Cox Anthony Foundation Australian Womens Association Sulzberger Foundation Helen Dettweiler Zoologische Gesellschaft S.D. Bechtel, Jr. Foundation David Shepard Conservation Fund Louise Reinhardt, Perrybell Wildlife Preservation Trust Investment Trust
International, Inc. Mzuri Wildlife Foundation Warner Commmications Inc. Preecha Ratanaporn Irvin & Kenneth Feld Products, Inc. Mars Foundation $250 or more World Wildlife Fumd Sea/Air Expo U.S. Navy League
$5,000 or more Bristol Myers Co. Jean Feys, M.D. Ruth S. Holmberg G. W. Knight International House Conservation Treaty Support Fund
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES Donor of Financial Support
$5,000 or more The Dibner Fund, Inc.
Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more $500 or more Exxon Corporation Mildred and Harry Silberglied $5,000 or more
The International Foundation

<<<Page: 321>>>

Anacostia Museum Donors of Financial Support $30,000 or more
Smithsonian Institution Educational
Outreach Funds
Education Department Donor of Financial Support $2,000 or more
Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates

<<<Page: 322>>>

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more The Pew Charitable Trusts
$50,000 or more J. Paul Getty Trust The Henry Luce Foundation
$10,000 or more
David Schwartz Foundation, Inc. Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway Lannan Foundation Margery and Harry Kahn
Philanthropic Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian Mr. and Mrs. Myron C. Roberts Mr. and Mrs. John N.
Rosekrans, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro The Brown Foundation, Inc. The Leslie Fay Companies, Inc. The Times Mirror Foundation Warner Communications, Inc. Mr. Dave H. Williams
$5,000 or more Mr. Ellsworth Alvord ARCO Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Philip I. Berman Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry Mr. and Mrs. Eli Broad Mr. and Mrs. David Carlson Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund Fieldstead & Company Mr. and Mrs. Miles Q. Fiterman Fried, Frank, Harris, and Shriver Gerald W. Chamberlin Foundation, Inc. Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr. Joseph Coudon VII Fund Mrs. Jacob Kainen Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall Mr. Meredith J. Long Miss Julienne M. Michel Mr. Mayer Mitchell Nina A. Werblow Charitable Trust Mrs. William L. Richards Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob Mr. Alan E. Schwartz Mr. Joel M. Simon Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman Mrs. Keith S. Wellin
$1,000 or more Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Applebaum Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Ash Babcock Galleries Mr. Louis C. Baker Mr. W. N. Banks Mrs. Donna Barnett Mr. and Mrs. Bogdan Baynert Mrs. F. Henry Berlin Ms. Daniele D. Bodini Mr. Gary Breitweiser Mr. and Mrs. Preston Butcher Mrs. Samuel C. Butler Mr. and Mrs. Howard B. Camden Caskey & Lees Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen Mr. and Mrs. Warren Coville Mr. Trammell Crow Mr. Edgar M. Cullman Mrs. Susan L. Cullman Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger Mrs. Francis de Marneffe Mr. Lawrence F. Du Mouchelle Mr. and Mrs. Ahmet Ertegun Mr. and Mrs. Alex J. Etkin Mr. and Mrs. Charles T.
Fisher III Mr. and Mrs. John Freeman Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr. Dr. Mario Garreffo Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty Mr, Arnold B. Glimcher Mr. Sanford D. Greenberg Harvey S. Firestone Foundation Mr. Robert V. Hatcher, Jr. Harry W. and Diana Hind Dr. and Mrs. David Jacknow Mr. and Mrs. Leonard C. Jacques Mr. and Mrs. David Jensen Dr. Helen Jessup Joshua Baer, Incorporated Mr. Walter Keating Mrs. James D. Klingbeil Mr. and Mrs. Frederick A. Klingenstein
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Kohlenberg

<<<Page: 323>>>

Mrs. Linda Noe Laine Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Landsman Dr. and Mrs. Irving H. Leopold Mr. and Mrs. Alan D. Levy Dr. and Mrs. Kim K. Lie Ms. Cheryl Hall Lindsay Lt. General and Mrs. Sam
Maddux, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney Mrs. William A. Marsteller Mrs. Edgar Masinter Matteucci Galleries, Ltd. Maxwell Galleries, Ltd. Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Mehran Dr. Martyna Miskinis Mrs. R. D. Murray Odyssey Partners Mrs. Gloria R. Oppenheimer Mr. and Mrs. Spencer Partrich Mr. and Mrs. M. P. Potamkin Mr. and Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain Mr. and Mrs. Douglas A. Schubot Dr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Schultz Dr. and Mrs. Robert R. Silver Mr. Joseph B. Slatkin Mr. and Mrs. Harry B. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier Mr. Ira Spanierman Mr. Jerry I. Speyer Ms. Susan Stary-Sheets Mr. and Mrs. George Strumbos Mr. and Mrs. Albert Susman Mr. Hollis Taggart The Barra Foundation, Inc. The Eclectic Framer The Pace Gallery of
New York, Inc. Mr. Alan Tishman Mr. Richard A. Voell Mrs. William C. Wallstein Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman Mrs. Paul L. Wattis Mrs. Joseph Weinstein Westview Gallery Williams Fine Art Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey Mr. R. Frederick Woolworth Mr. Richard T. York Young's Fine Art Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Zeff
$500 or more
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Acevedo Mrs. Lee W. Alberts
The Honorable and Mrs. Joseph L. Alioto Dr. Lourdes V. Andaya Mr. and Mrs. Derby F. Anderson Arlington Gallery Mrs. A. W. Berg Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley Mr. and Mrs. H. Theodore Brosch Mrs. Constance G. Brown Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Buck Dr. Irving F. Burton Dr. and Mrs. John M. Carroll Cincinnati Art Galleries Coe Kerr Gallery, Inc. Mrs. Chisholm Cole Mr. Joseph E. Cole Mr. and Mrs. James J. Coleman, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Richard Conrad Mr. Michael R. Hackett Mrs. Ellen R. Cooper Mrs. Polly Blakeley Davidson Mrs. Sheila C. Davidson Mrs. David E. Davis Mrs. Elizabeth De Cuevas Mrs. John de Menil Mr. and Mrs. Stuart B. Denenberg Mr. and Mrs. James E. Douglas Mr. William J. Doyle Mr. and Mrs. Howard M. Dubin Mr. Charles H. Duggan Mr. and Mrs. Irving F. Dworkin Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth Mrs. Beatrice Elkin Mrs. John V. Erickson Ms. Jane Evans Ms. Geraldine Fabrikant Mr. Alfred Feinman Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Feldman Mr and Mrs. Arnold I. Feverman Ms. Natalie Fielding Mrs. George R. Fink Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher Mr. and Mrs. Max M. Fisher Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Fisher Mr. George Hopper Fitch Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman Mrs. William Clay Ford Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Forsch Ms. Jacqueline Fowler Mrs. Helena Fraser Mrs. Harriet Friedlander Mr. and Mrs. Tully Friedman Mr. Frederic J. Fuller, Jr.

<<<Page: 324>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs.
Yale Ginskiurg Henry Goldberg Richard Goldman
Mrs. Mary Louisé Goodrich
Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs.
Harvld Gordon Richard W. Goss II
Graham Gallery
Mrs. Bernard Mr. and Mrs.
A. Greenbery Peter Haas
Mrs. Lauren Poplack Hallinan Dr. Armand Hammer
Mr. Christopher B. Hemmeter Mr. Joseph Hardy
Mr. John H. Harrington
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Hatz Scott R. Heldfond
Mr. R. H. Hering
Mrs. Peter M. Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs.
Holbrook Gedale Horowitz Richard E. Hyde
Mrs. Philip Iselin
Mr. and Mrs.
Paul Jacobowitz
Mr. Dean G. Jacobs
Mr. and Mrs. Jewett, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs. Mr. Lester E. Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs. Dr. and Mrs. F. E. Keeler Mr. and Mrs. Mrs. Estelle
George F.
Henry C. Johnson
Maxwell Jospey Kabacoff
John Kantgias
Leonard Kasle John Katz
Eli Kaufman
Jack M. Kaufman
John Klingenstein M. Konheim
Mr. Richard Kughn
Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs.
David Leader Edwin Deane Leonard
Mrs. Arabella Levorsen
Mr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs.
Bernard E. Linden Peter K. Loeb
Lyons Ltd. Antique Prints Mallah, Furman, & Co., P.A. Mrs. Fleur Manning
Dr. and Mrs. Mr. and Mrs.
William Margaretten Tom F. Marsh
Mr. Sorrell Mathes
Mrs. Walter Maynard, Jr. Mrs. Susan McClatchy Mrs. Marian S. Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs.
Lester S. Morse, Jr.
Ms. Blanche W. Moss
Mrs. E. Clarence Mularoni
Mr. Jack Nash
Mr. and Mrs. Paul L. Nine
Mr. Alexander Papamarkou
Mr. and Mrs. Noel Perry
Mr. and Mrs. Melvin A. Peters Mr. and Mrs. David Pollack Miss Shirley Polykoff
Mr. and Mrs. Hughes L. Potiker Mr. and Mrs. Leo Rabkin
Mr. and Mrs. Dana M. Raymond Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Reis
Mrs. Mary Louise K. Robinson Mrs. John D. Rockefeller 3rd Mrs. James J. Rorimer
Mrs. Benjamin H. Rose III
Mr. John S. Rosekrans
Russell MacMasters & Associates Mrs. Madeline H. Russell
Mr. and Mrs. Ira Sahlman
Mr. and Mrs. William F. Sankovich Mr. Walter Scheuer
Mr. and Mrs. Sherwin Schreier Mrs. Rudolph B. Schulhof
Mr. Ronald Schwarz
Mrs. Stuart R. Shamberg
Mr. William E. Slaughter, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Norman Sloman
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd E. Smith Mrs. Shelda Soble
Mr. and Mrs. Alex G. Spanos Stevens Press Total Graphic
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Stevenson Mrs. F. G. Strachan
Mrs. Louise B. Stroh
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Tanner
Mr. James F. Thacher
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Topham The Gramercy Park Foundation Mr. Duane A. Wakeham
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks Walker, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Philip Waterman, Jr. Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward Mr. and Mrs. Roy Zurkowski
$250 or more Mr. and Mrs. Ansel Aberly Adamson-Duvannes Galleries Mr. and Mrs. Edmund T. Ahee Mr. Arthur G. Altschul Mr. Newton Duke Angier Mr. W. Graham Arader III Mrs. Leslie H. Arps

<<<Page: 325>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Austin Mr. Robert Bahssin
Mr. Robert Brown Baker
Dr. and Mrs. James Bannon Barclay Simpson, Inc.
Mr. Edward Larrabee Barnes Ms. Lola M. Bauer
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Beattie Mr. Anthony Belluschi
Ms. Pamela Bensoussan Berry-Hill Galleries, Inc. Mrs. Marcia Allen Bielfield Mrs. Charles L. Biggs
Mr. and Mrs. Martin Blanck Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Bloch
Mr. John Bloom
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Blumenstein Mrs. Harry Bond
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Bortz, Jr.
Mr. William Breslan
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Brown Bryce R. Bannatyne, Jr., & Co. Mrs. John Lee Nunce
Mr. and Mrs. I. R. Burnstine Mr. Scott Burton
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Butler Butterfield & Butterfield Mrs. Martin L. Butzel Carlson Gallery
Mr and Mrs. Ralph Chapa Christie's Associates
Met Fe Churchil)
Ms. J. Linzee Coolidge
Mrs. Louise Davies
Mr. Bruce A. Davis
Mr. Mark G. Davis
Dean G. Jacobs & Associates, Inc.
Ms. Christiane P. DeBord Michael and Dudley Del Balso Mrs. Gladys Krieble Delmas Ms. Margaret H. Demant
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Doerer Double K. Gallery
Mrs. Dorothy Dunitz
Eckert Fine Art
Mr. Gilbert S. Edelson
Ms. Lois Ehrenfeld
Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac
Mrs. Jimmy Ernst
Mr. Robert S. Evans
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans Mr. Stuart P. Feld
Mr. Stephen W. Fess
Mrs. Phillip Finn Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Fleischer, Jr. Mr. Christopher Forbes Mrs. Walter B. Ford II Ms. Trudy Foster Foxley Cattle Company Mrs. Daniel Fraad Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Fried Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Frolich Mr. Blair Fuller Mr. Ernest Gallo Gasperi Folk Art Gallery Mr. Roger Genser Ms. Irene S. Gerber Mr. and Mrs. Irving L. Goldman Ms. Marcia Goode Grand Central Art Galleries Mrs. Robert S. Greenbaum Mr. Michael R. Hackett Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Hale Dr. Susan and Mr. Harold Schreiber Mrs. Alfred Harriman Mrs. Iola S. Haverstick Mr. R. A. Hearst Mrs. Randolph A. Hearst Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton Ms. Frances Wyatt Hill Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz Mr. David J. Howard Mr. Thomas Howe Mrs. William White Howells Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Karr IBM Corporation Jack Parker Antiques Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Jacob Mrs. Morris I. Jaffee Jan Holloway Gallery Mrs. Maxine C. Johnson Mr. Stanley Day and Ms. Lynn Day Mrs. Sallie B. Kelly Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Kendrick Kennedy Galleries, Indc. Ms. Jill Knoth Mr. Wayne Koonce Mr. and Mrs. Stanford Krandall Mrs. Sylvia Krause Miss Antoinette Kraushaar Dr. and Mrs. Richard W. Kulis Mrs. Rogers Kyes Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane Mr. Leonard Lauder Mr. and Mrs. Arthur D. Leidesdorf

<<<Page: 326>>>

Ms. Chrysanthy Leones
Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Levine
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Luhn
Mr. Russell Lynes
Mr. C. Richard MacGrath
Mrs. Marion Berger Maker
Mr. and Mrs. Peter L. Malkin
Mrs. James S. Marcus
Mr. and Mrs. Frank S. Marra
Mr. David McCabe
Mr. Porter A. McCray
Mr. Jay D. McEvoy
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Medici Books
Ms. Elaine Mein
Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Meltzer
Mrs. Peter Michael
Mrs. John E. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Milstein
Montgomery Gallery
Mr. Raymond D. Nasher
Native American Art
Neal R. Smith Fine Art
Caren Nederlander, Ph.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Milford Nemer
Miss Jane Newhall
Mrs. Annalee Newman
Mr. and Mrs. L. James Newman
Mr. and Mrs. Irving Nusbaum
Dr. and Mrs. Kevin T. O'Donnell
Mr. Calvin W. Odom
Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Orthwein
Mrs. Henry Pearlman
Mr. Frank Perry and Ms. Barbara Goldsmith
Mr. and Mrs. Ned L. Pines
Dr. and Mrs. Terry Podolsky
Property Capital Associates
Mrs. James A. Rawley
Mr. Harold Reed
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Richter
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Robinson
Mr. and Mrs. Irving Rose
Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Rosekrans
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Rosenfeld
Dulcie and Norman H. Rosenfeld
Mr. Arthur Ross
Mary, Viscountess Rothermere
Mrs. Sunne Savage-Neuman
Dr. Ivan C. Schatten
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Schoenith
Mr. Alan E. Schwartz
Mrs. John Sculley
Mrs. Edward Sexton
Mr. Lawrence A. Shar
Mrs. Maryanna G. Shaw
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis J. Slatkin Mr. and Mrs. Eliot Snider
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Solway
Mr. Joel Spear, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Stiles II Mrs. Robert W. Stoddard
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Stollman Mr. and Mrs. Alan D. Stone Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Stoneman Mrs. Philip A. Straus
Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Sulkes Mr. David J. Supino
Susan Cummins Gallery
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig Maryann and Kenneth Taylor Ted Mills Fine Art
Mr. Richard Teller
The Annex Galleries
The Beinecke Foundation
The Lachaise Foundation
The North Point Gallery
The Redfern Gallery
Mr. Don Treadway
Mr. and Mrs. Terry Trotter Mr. and Mrs. Richard Tucker Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Usher Vahlkamp & Probst Gallery Mrs. Joseph A. Vance, Jr.
Mr. Abbot W. Vose
Dr. and Mrs. Robert Waldmann Mr. and Mrs. David R. Weinberg Mr. and Mrs. Julian Weinstock Mrs. Elaine G. Weitzen
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Wertz
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer William A. Kargas Fine Art Mr. and Mrs. James H. Wineman Ms. Paula Young
Mrs. Guri Lee Zeckendorf

<<<Page: 327>>>

Donors of Financial Support
$500,000 or more Arthur M. Sackler Foundation $100,000 or more Estate of Leon Pomerance $50,000 or more Mrs. Else Sackler $10,000 or more
Anonymous
Mr. Bahman Batmanghelidj
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
Arthur M. Sackler Foundation United Technologies Corporation The Washington Post
$1,000 or more
Anonymous
Mr. and Mrs. Philip I. Berman
Mr. Joseph F. Fletcher, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Geniesse
Mr. Forhad Hakimzedeh
Mr. Ali Iravani
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Newbill
Pritzker Foundation
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
$500 or more
Mrs. Layla Diba
Mr. and Mrs. Gholam-Reza Golsorkhi
Barry and Beverly Pierce
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins Mr. and Mrs. Hosseinali Soudavar Mrs. Louise Sagalyn
The Toledo Museum of Art
$250 or more
Mr. Khosro Eghbal
Mrs. Shahnaz Faily
Mr. John G. Ford
Mr. Alvin Morganstein
Dr. and Mrs. Ghassem A. Nejad
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Nitze
Dr. Faral Feri Sadeghian
Mrs. Nancy Saidi
Mr. and Mrs. Bob Turner
Weschler’s Auctioneers and Appraisers

<<<Page: 328>>>

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM Donors of Financial Support $100,000 or more
Comité Colbert
Shell Oil Company Foundation Smithsonian Institution Special Exhibitions Fund
$50,000 or more
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts
Regents Collections Acquisition Program
$10,000 or more
American Express Company
American Friends of the Vatican Library
Banco di Santo Spirito
Brunschwig & fils, Inc.
Dutch American West-India Company Foundation, Inc.
Helena Rubinstein Foundation
James Smithson Society
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Stiebel
The New York Times Company Foundation
Van Munching & Co., Inc.
$5,000 or more
Henri Bendel
Bristol-Myers Company
The Condé Nast Publications, Inc. Koppers Company, Inc.
The Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation, Inc. Herman Miller
New York State Council on the Arts
The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.
Charles E. Sampson Memorial Trust Matthew F. Schutz
$1,000 or more
ABN Bank
Anheuser Busch, Inc.
Anonymous
Barneys New York
Mr. and Mrs. Moreton Binn
Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd
Mario Buatta
Alan Campbell, Inc.
The Compton Foundation
Consolidated Edison Company of New York
National Association of Dealers in Antiquities
Hunter Douglas, Inc.
Gilman Paper Company
Alice Gottsman
The Henry J. and Drue Heinz Foundation
Hermes of Paris, Inc.
IBM Corporation
IFINT-USA Inc.
Island Restaurant
Lincoln Kirstein
Mrs. Jean C. Lindsey
Lister Butler, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Russell Lynes
MacMillan Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.
Nancy & Company
Rabobank Nederland
Rockefeller Foundation
Salomon, Inc.
Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill
Frances D. Smyth
Dr. and Mrs. Frank Stanton
Mrs. Lisa M. Taylor
Tiffany & Co.
Wertheim Schroder & Company
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Publishers
Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
$500 or more
Mrs. Robert C. Allen Mrs. Diana L. Altschul Bill Blass Ltd.
Grey Advertising
Edith W. MacGuire Pauline Metcalf
Edward Munves, Jr. Paper White Ltd. Lindley D. Paskus
Mary Jane Pool
Mrs. Carl L. Selden Mr. and Mrs. H. Brooks Smith Smithsonian Magazine
$250 or more
Herve Aaron Paul P. Acetta
We pp >

<<<Page: 329>>>

Nancy M. Amicangelo
Ara's Gallery, Oriental Rugs
Sarah E. Barnes
Doris Leslie Blau Elizabeth P. Borish Mrs. Thomas A. Cassilly John P. Connors
Phyllis Dearborn-Massar Dover Publications First Editions
Joseph Gardner
Robin Colin-Greene
June Greenwald Antiques Bernard Haber
Vivian G. Heffran
Leigh Keno
Mrs. Beverly Lang Pierce Andrew S. Lazarus
David P. Lindquist
James Parker
Stephen M. Sans Scalamandre Silks
Cecile D. Schacht
Keith E. Sender
Mason Slaine
Christian Srb
David L. Torrey
Lillian Vernon Corporation
Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more
Estate of John S. Thacher
(Edward Waldo Forbes Fumd)
$50,000 or more James Smithson Society $10,000 or more
Estate of John K. Havemeyer
(Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)
$5,000 or more Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
$1,000 or more
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
$250 or more
Weschler’s Auctioneers and Appraisers
Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more Jerome Greene
$10,000 or more Agnes Gund Lewis Unitrust
Ww v +b
$1,000 or more Leonard Yaseen Foundation

<<<Page: 330>>>

Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Lotus Development Corporation Intel Corporation Northrop Corporation
$50,000 or more Kraft Incorporated Colgate-Palmolive Company International Telecommunications Satellite Organization Grumman Corporation Oracle Corporation Maxell Corporation Of America Rockwell International Corp. Hitachi America, LID. United Technologies Corporation United Technologies Sikorsky Aircraft
$10,000 or more Diasonics, Inc. Mr. Rinaldo Piaggio Buehler Aviation Research E. I. Du Pont de Nemours
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
Prime Computer, Inc.
American Movie Classics Company
American Finance Group
Syntex Laboratories, Inc.
S.C. Johnson and Son, Inc.
MEM/Mars
Fairchild Industries, Inc. NexT, Inc.
General Dynamics Corp.
The Dudley Observatory Cincinnati Insurance Company Air Line Pilots Association The Perkin-Elmer Corporation
$5,000 or more Cubic Corporation Atomic Library Texas Instruments Incorporated Association Of Naval Aviation Hughes Aircraft Company Qmega Watch Corporation American Telephone & Telegraph Xerox Credit Corporation Time-Life Books, Inc. Rolls Royce, Inc.
$1,000 or more
National Space Club
Mr. Anthony J. Diorio
Icdr. Jeffrye Shedd, USNR (Ret) Sanders Associates, Inc.
Flying Midshipmen Association, Inc. Morgan Guaranty Trust of New York Washington Technology Foundation
$500 or more Helen J. McCray Memory of Bryan R. Miner Thomas E. Blount Washington Apple PI, Ltd. Emerson Electric
$250 or more RAdm. William A. Gureck, USN (Ret) Lcdr Harry B. Dunlap, USN (Ret)

<<<Page: 331>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more ; $500.00 or more Michael Sonnenreich Rep. Charles Rangel Mr. and Mrs. Milton Rosenthal $250.00 or more $5,000 or more David Driskell Women's Committee of the Mr. and Mrs. Barry Pierce Smithsonian Institution
$1,000 or more Mr. and Mrs. Robert Nooter Mrs. Carl Selden

<<<Page: 332>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART Donors of Financial Support |
$100,000 or more The National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property Tiffany & Co.
$50,000 or more Phillip and Patricia Frost Philanthropic Fund Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
$10,000 or more Estate of Alice H. Colquitt Mr. and Mrs. Barney A. Ebsworth Foundation First City, Texas The J. Paul Getty Trust Nestle Enterprises, Inc. James Renwick Alliance Mr. Wilbur L. Ross
$5,000 or more
The Abramson Foundation
Joseph Alfrandre & Co., Inc.
The Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley Foundation
William R. and Nora H. Lichtenberg Foundation
The Overbrook Foundation
The Ruth and Vernon Taylor Foundation
$1,000 or more Anonymous Individuals Mr. and Mrs. C. Victor Beadles The Beardsley Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein Ms. Constance Caplan The Fairchild Industries Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Goetz Mr. Arvin Gottlieb
$1,000 or more (continued) Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Mr. Wayne Koonce and Ms. Harriet Hentges Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Hill Mr. and Mrs. Jaqueline H. Hume Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen The LaChaise Foundation Mr. Jacques E. Lennon Mr. Edward J. Lenkin and Ms. Katherine L. Mier Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon Ms. Nancy B. Negley The Peters Corporation Mr. & Mrs. David E. Purvis Senator and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, IV Mr. Samuel Rose Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams Mr. Allan Sellars Judge and Mrs. Oliver Seth Mrs. John Farr Simmons Mr. Ira Spanierman Truevision Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Warner Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Wilsey Mr. Edward F. Wilson and Dr. Edward T. Wilson Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
$500 or more Adam A. Weschler & Son
$250 or more Mrs. Margret Craver Ms. Beverly J. Lang Mr. and Mrs. Barry M. Pierce
Ww ie

<<<Page: 333>>>

Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more Amax Incorporated Exxon Coal and Minerals Company:
Homestake Mining Company Texaco Incorporated Foundation
$50,000 or more Chevron Mr. Barry Yampol
$10,000 or more
AROO Oil and Gas Company CCNAA Freeport-—McMoRan, Incorporated Manufactures Hanover Trust National Geographic Society Phelps Dodge Corporation United States Borax and
Chemical Corporation
$5,000 or more James R. Agen BP Minerals America Chase Manhattan Bank The Cleveland-Cliffs Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr. Evergreen Marine Corporation William J. Hume Trust National Geographic Society PacifiCorp Foundation/NERCO
Fund
Dr. Clyde F. E. Roper Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore Mr. Chi-Chung Yu
$1,000 or more Ferdinand Eberstadt Dr. Oliver S. Flint, dr. G.. W.. Hart, ar. Mrs. Jefferson Patterson Mrs. Mary L. Ripley David Rockefeller, Jr. The W. R. Stamler Corporation Dr. F. Christian Thompson Aileen B. Train UNOCAL Corporation Science and Technology Division Mr. George B. Vogt
$500 or more Anonymous Mr. and Mrs. Michael Foley Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Frank Mr. Richard E. Petit The Edgar V. Weir Family Foundation, Inc.
$100 or more
Dr. W. Ronald Heyer
Ms. Teresa M. Holland
Dr. Albert D. Maizels
Pittway Corporation Charitable Foundation
Primary Impressions, Incorporated
Society of Aquatic Veterinary Medicine
Harrison Watson, Jr.
Austin B. Williams
$50 or more Dr. Alan H. Cheetham Harley I. Manner John H. Miles, Jr. H. A. Miller Stephen Renvoize Dr. Donald W. Tuff University of the West Indies
$25 or more Robert P. Owen Dr. Edward G. Purdy Harald A. Rehder Dieter Rinke Mr. and Mrs. Henry Terwedow Miss Helena M. Weiss Dr. Richard Zusi
$10 or more Melinda S. Allen Aquatic Research Institute Aukland Institute and Museum Australian Institute of Marine
Science
Australian Museum Australian National Museum Arthur L. Bloom B. E. Brown

<<<Page: 334>>>

Centre D'Oceanologie de Marseille
Charles E. Burkland
William J. Cooke
Department of Conservation
Roger Cuffey
Department of Primary Industries
Dr. Roger J. Hnatiuk
Mary L. Hyams
Hugh H. Iltis
Jardin Botanique Montreal
Dr. Oscar W. Johnson
Dr. Brian Jones
Liverpool Museum
Raymond B. Manning
R. M. Mason
David L. Meyer
Raymond L. Meyers
The Micronesian Institute
Ministry of Fisheries
Peter Morris
Lisa Nagaoka
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
$10,000 or more The Anschutz Foundation Jeane W. Austin Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Ine: The Equitable Life Assurance Society The T. M. Evans Foundation Kirkland & Ellis Foundation New Sweden '88 New York Committee Vinson & Elkins, Attorneys
Nancy C. Ogden
Pacific Tropical Botanical Garden
Wendell K. Patton
Ds €: (POEs
Ang Put, Jr.
Pamela Roe
Royal Society
Dr. John S. Ryland
James Scatterday
Stephen V. Smith
Frederick W. Taylor
John W. Underwood
University of California
University of Hawaii Foundation
Marshall Weisler
World Life Research Institute
Dr. S. R. J. Woodell
Hiroyuki Yokochi
$1 or more Norman E. Leppert
$5,000 or more The Barra Foundation, Inc. Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, Counselors at Law
$1,000 or more Leslie H. Goldberg Jack Haas Chester H. Lasell The Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund
$250 or more Beverly Lang Barry and Beverly Pierce
Donors of Financial Support
$1,000 or more Mary Livingston Ripley

<<<Page: 335>>>

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE Donors of Financial Support
Boeing Corporation
Domino Farms
Franklin Kissner Estate
George Gund Foundation Goodwill Games
King Features' Syndicate McDonnell Douglas Foundation MCI Foundation
New Mexico Council on Photography Pepsi-Cola Co.
Phillips Petroleum Foundation Staten Island Children's Museum
OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more Brother International Corporation, Inc.
$10,000 or more American Airlines
$1,002 or more Myer Foundation

<<<Page: 336>>>

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS Donors of Financial Support
$100,000 or more State of Hawai'i Hawai'i Visitors Bureau American Committee on the French Revolution
$10,000 or more Music Performance Trust Funds Duty Free Shoppers, Inc. Alexander & Baldwin, Inc. Aloha Airlines, Inc. American Telephone & Telegraph, Inc. Bank of Hawai'i First Hawaiian Bank Frito Lay of Hawai'i GTE Hawaiian Tel Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. International Savings/National Mortgage & Finance Co. Japan Travel Bureau Oceanic Properties, Pacific Resources,
rnc’. Ene:
Donors of Financial Support
$50,000 or more General Foods Fund, Inc.
$25,000 or more
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
Florence Gould Foundation
$10,000 or more Gannett Foundation Centre des Nouvelles Industries et Technologies
$5,000 or more Victor Company of Japan Quebec Ministry of Cultural Affairs RJR Tobacco International Matson Navigation Company
$1,000 or more Coca-Cola Company Squibb Corporation Puerto Rico, USA Foundation
$500 or more Richard Kurin
$5,000 or more Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, Inc. SNECMA, Inc.
$1,000 or more Airbus Industrie of North America, Inc. Thomson-CSF, Inc.
$500 or more T. Evans Wyckoff

<<<Page: 337>>>

Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
Donors of Financial Support
$1,000 or more Howard Phipps Foundation Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann
$10,000 or more Mrs. Russell Arundel Josephine R. Cunningham The Corporate Printing Company
Carnegie Corporation of New York
Rockefeller Foundation Ford Foundation
Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more The Washington Post Company
$5,000 or more Virginia Bar Association Orion Pictures Corporation
$1,000 or more
International Council
of Museums Winchester Schools Polish American Congress Columbia Pictures Foundation for Iranian Studies Embassy of the SFR Yugoslavia Australian Government Embassy of the Federal Republic
of Germany Fisk Alumni of
Washington
eS) ww t
$500 or more Austrian Consulate General 28th International Geological Congress Digital Equipment Corporation Of the Metropolitan Area Greater Washington Board of Trade Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Links, Inc Harry N. Abrams
$250 or more The American Institute of Architects Leanne Rees Southwestern Bell Foundation Committee of 100 on Federal City

<<<Page: 338>>>

Donors to the Collection
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES Donors to the Collections
John W. Aldrich: papers of John W. Aldrich Richard Banks: papers of Richard Banks
Peter Braestrup: papers of Peter Braestrup George B. Field: papers of George B. Field Storrs Lh. Olson: papers: of..Storrs: \L. Olson Crimilda Pontes: papers of Crimilda Pontes
S. Dillon Ripley: papers of S. Dillon Ripley Curtis W. Sabrosky: papers of Curtis W. Sabrosky Frank C. Whitmore: papers of Frank C. Whitmore S. Joseph Wright: papers of S. Joseph Wright
Institutions
American Arachnological Society: records of the Society American Ornithologists' Union: records of the Union American Society of Ichthyologists and
Herpetologists: records of the Society American Society of Mammalogists: records of the Society American Society of Zoologists: records of the Society Botanical Society of Washington: records of the Society Colonial Waterbird Society: records of the Society Nationai Institute for the Conservation
of Cultural Properties, Inc.: papers of the Institute Society of Vertebrate Paleontology: records of the Society Washington Conservation Guild: records of the Guild

<<<Page: 339>>>

Donors to the Collection
Individual Donors
Samuel Aco
Dr. Jack Adams Dario Jaramillo Agudelo Ignacio Agudo
O. Akinlabi
Chief Alagba
Mohsin A. Alaini Yara de Alencar Zaynab Alkali
El Anatsui
Silvio Bedini
Dr. Barbara Blackmun Andre Blandin Harriett G. Bledsoe Mike Blumenthal Martha Bowen
Roy Burgess
Dr. Pamela Burns-Balogh Eckhard Breitinger Mamie House Brown Ricky Burnett
Peter Cannell Luisella Carretta Ivan Castro
Judith Clancy
Fred Collier Victoria Conzatti R. Cooke
Ron Crombie
Mary Croninger Jacqueline Cundiff Esther Dagan
Dr. Charles Dane Richard Davis
Amos S. Deinard, MD Alain Derbier
David Dibner
Aaron Didier Kathrine Dirks Alfred Dohm
Dr. David Dorward Dr. Henry Drewal Harvey Duke
R. Dunnigan
Dr. Omotoso Eluyemi Mrs. Sherman Euler Carl H. Ernst
Pamela Ferrell Michael Fleischer Olivér’-S.° Flint; -dx% Dr. Barbara Frank Aristides Frias Frigga Gibbs
Sarah Jane Gillam Margaret L. Gordon Carolyn Hahn
Farhad Hakimzadeh Thomas M. Hancock III Prof. Victor E. Hanzeli Lillian B. Hettling Dr. Robert S. Hoffman Harry Hoogstraal Elton Louis Howe John Hyltoft
Mike Irrifere
Minoru Imajima
Edwin K. Jaycox
W.A. Jayeoba
Norman G. Jensen Antonio Nunez Jimenez Heine Jockers
David Jones
Bill Karg
Vija L. Karklins Michael J. Katz Tsutomu Kawasaki John Keinath
Roger Kennedy
George G. King
Florence Greasley
Knighton
Ray Kondratas Chantal Kozyreff Yoon-Hee Kwon Betty LaDuke Robert J. Lavenberg

<<<Page: 340>>>

Eli Leon
Dr. Elbert Little Ms. Gale Litvak
Dr. Carlyle A. Luer Mark Madsen
Pierre Marly
Nadia Martayan
Mrs. James V. Martin Stephen Memoli
Roy McDiarmid William F. McGuinn Prof. Patrick McNaughton Beate Meffert Barbara Meyer-Marroth Cora S. Middleton Florence Montgomery E.J. Moorhead
J. Tom Morgan, Jr. Alain Nicolas
Prof. C. Valiente Noailles Julio Noriega
James B. Norman, Jr. Daniel K. Odell Angeles Diaz Ojeda Adedayo Ologundudu Dr. Storrs, Olson Joseph A. Opala Richard C. O'Rourke J. Bruce Overmier Pat Oyelola
Barbara Paxson Laszlo Mester de Parajd Jim & Carol Parrish Helen B. Payne
Edith Pressler Elizabeth Rankin Thomas Reardon Thomas J. Reaume Jerome Redfearn Porter B. Reed Howard C. Reese Krishna Riboud
Prof. Andrew Roberts Edith Rosenthal
Mr. James Ross
Dr. Raffaella Rossi-Manaresi
Bre 2. RUDINOLE
Prof. Howard A. Russell Curtis Sabrosky Nivcanor Restrepo Santamaria
Antonio Santangelo Yaya Savane
Yvette Scheven
Nick Schliapin
Walter E. Schutz Victoria Scott
John E. Semonche
David H. Shayt
Michael Sheehe
Dr. Bill Siegmann
Dr. Raymond Silverman Martin Smith
Robert A. Smithson, MD Mr. Nanda Soobben Rachida de Souza
Dr. Victor. Springer Dr. George Switzer Paul Taylor
Wendy Thomas
John S. Tomer
Dr. Mua Tung-hsu
Oscar Flores Villela Dr. Carlo Violani Michael Ward
R.A. Webber
Kimberley Webber
Rev. Canon J.C. Weller Ellen B. Wells Winniefred B. Whipple John White
Hans Witte
Dr. Michael Zickerick Dr. George Zug

<<<Page: 341>>>

Institutional Donors
American Institute of the History of Pharmacy Archives d'Architecture Moderne
Association of Art Museum Directors
Bartley Crucible & Refractories
Basel Universitatsbibliothek
Bayreuth University
Black-Art Gallery
Center for the Fine Arts
Center for the History of Electrical Engineering Center for Research Libraries
College of William and Mary, Dept. of Anthropology Department of the Army
Eritrean People's Liberation Front
Everson Museum of Art
Fairfax Workshop of Ikebana International, Chapter #1 Friend's Way
Fundacion Universo Veintiuno, A. C.
Gallery Nine, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign His Majesty's Biological Laboratory
Italian Cultural Institute
The Japan Foundation
Johannesburg Art Gallery
Mindata Microform Systems
Montreal Museum of Fine Arts
Musee Africain
Musee Barbier-Mueller
Musee des Beaux-Arts, Lyon, France
Museo Nacional de Etnologia
Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi
NMAH Archives Center
NMAH Department of Social and Cultural History NMAH Division of Community Life
Nantucket Historical Association
Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County New Orleans Museum of Art
Pretoria Art Museum
Santa Barbara Museum of Art
Schuck Sohne AG
Sea World
Simon & Schuster
Spelman College
Swaziland National Trust Commission
University of Nigeria
U. S. National Library of Medicine
Welland Canals Society
Whitney Museum of American Art

<<<Page: 342>>>

Anacostia Museum Donors to the Collection
Jan Shelton Schwarz. Unidentified African-American Choral Group photograph.
Beth P. Wilson. Crispus Attucks Scroll.
Faith Powell. One Item of Sheet Music.
David Wellington. Portrait of unidentified African-American male found in the District Building.
Rebecca Ratcliff. Embroidered Tea Towel (or dish towel)
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY Donors to the Collection
Rajinder K. Keith and Narinder K. Keith. Bridal hair ormament (Jhumar), gold, India, ca. 1890; in memory of their mother (S1989.1)
Mr. Luke Powell. Color photograph by Luke Powell (1946), "Lavender Flowers near Maimana." (S1989.2)
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth Robbins. Opaque watercolor on paper, "The Siege of Mathura by the Armies of Jarasandha," Nepal, late 18th C. ($1988.58)
Dr. and Mrs. C. W. Sprunt. Painting, ink and colors on paper, "Children Playing in the Snow,” China, 1890-1900.

<<<Page: 343>>>

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM Donors to the Collection
Air France, Selection of "Concorde" catering equipment designed by Raymond Loewy for Air France, plastic, c. 1976. (1989-24-1-21) Accepted for study purposes: 101 plastic cups and dishes, plastic tote bag, 34 plastic glasses, two porcelain dishes and condiments.
Aluminor Luminaires, "WO" halogen lamp, designed by Sacha Ketoff and Andre Lavigne, France, c. 1988 (1989-4-1)
Anonymous, "Lunar Network" sculpture in two parts (bowl and base) by Concetta Mason, glass, USA, 1986. (1989-16-1la,b)
Junici Arai, openwork white scarf with bird design by Junichi Arai, Japan, 1988. (1989-14-11).
The Avenue, "Rockets" length of screen-printed silk designed by Georgina von Etzdorf, England, 1987. (1989-8-1)
John P. Axelrod, table or desk lamp by Russell Wright, spun aluminum and wood, mid 1930s. (1989-67-1)
Konstanze Bachmann, "10 Years Iscar Self Grip 1977-1987 and Still the Classic Standard" calendar, Dan Resinger, USA. (1989-46-1)
Boros Cotton, Ltd., three lengths of fabric by various designers printed by Boros. (1989-66-1-3)
Torun Vivianna Bulow-Hube, silver bracelet, Indonesia, 1959-60. (1989-59-1)
Clarence House, "Diaghilev" warp printed silk from design by Yvonne Marchal, adapted for Clarence House, printed in France, 1986. (1988-114-1) "Pierrot" warp printed silk same as above. (1988-114-2) "Ghana" length of fabric, no. 31773/2-le 10-5, USA, 1980s. (1989-55-1)
Garth Clark and Mark del Vecchio, five-piece dinner service, glazed ceramic, Jeff Oestreich, USA, 1988. (1988-98-1-4)
Garth Clark Gallery, "Bengali" bowl by William Underhill, bronze, 1988, USA (1988-109-1).
Mrs. John F. Cole, embroidered panel, Art Nouveau design by Margaret Kostolany, Hungary, c. 1900. (1989-28-1) Embroidered panel with boder of stylized flowers by Margaret Kostolany. c. 1900. (1989-28-2)
Coquet Porcelainier a Limoges, 13 pieces of tableware designed by Marc Held in 1973, glazed porcelain, produced c. 1988. (1989-19-13)
Rosemary Corroon, parure consisting of one bracelet, brooch, one pair of earrings, gold, onyx, pearls, French (7), c. 1860. (1988-107-1-3b)
Creation Baumann, eleven lengths of fabrics by Creation Baumann. (1988-111-1-11) Eight samplebooks of swatches of Creation Baumann fabrics. (1988-111-12-19)
Cristalleries de Saint-Louis, "Medici" footed vase, pressed glass with gothic design, French, c. 1840. (1988-108-1)
Jacqueline Davidson, "Secticon" desk clock, phenolmelamine, brass designed by Angelo Mangiarotti, 1962, Italy/Switzerland. (1988-95-1)
Mrs. Elaine Evans Dee, "The White House," illustration board model kit, USA, 1976. (1989-61-1)
Jean Michel Delisle, "Archeologie Future" lamp designed by Christian Duc, patinated bronze and glass, France. (1989-68-1)
Donald Deskey, 1502 drawings by the designer and one by Ruth Reve. (1988-101-1-1503) Also includes three 4-drawer filing cabinets and several packages of archival materials pertaining to Deskey works. Non-accessioned archival material for Library use.
Robert Ebendorf Art Studio, set of three drawings for fireplace equipment by Clement E. Horton, USA, 20th century. (1989-32-1-3) Twenty-one drawings for andirons by Clement E. Horton. (1989-32-4-24) Drawing for lamp by Clement E. Horton. (1989-32-25) Additional archival material for artists files.

<<<Page: 344>>>

Jessica Feingold, batik panel landscape design, USA, early 20th century. (1989-21-1)
FERMOB, "Face a Face" secretaire-designed by Pascal Mourgue, enameled steel, France, 1987. (1989-22-1)
Helen Fioratti, five pieces of French and English wallpaper, early 19th century. (1989-49-1-5)
Fujii & Co., Ltd. Two "Fisso" desk sets designed by Igarashi Studios, plastic and metal, Japan, 1988. (1989-18-1-28)
Cora Ginsburg, roll of wallpaper, France, early 19th century. (1988-105-1) Two fragments of wallpaper, France, early 19th century. (1988-105-2,3). One length of wallpaper plus one fragment, France, early 19th century. (1988-105-4,5)
Mrs. Julia Haiblen, two pair of shoe buckles, cut steel, c. 1920. (1989-69-1la-2b)
Mrs. Lucille Langdon Hamilton, four spoons made of coconut, ivory, coral, wood, metal, and mother-of-pearl. (1988-85-1-4)
Hermes S.A., "Pippa" folding desk and stool designed by Rena Dumas and Peter Coles, pearwood, leather, brass, France, 1985-87. (1989-36-1,2)
Ysabella Hincapie, printed scarf with U.N. seal and flags of nations, USA, 1957. (L989 29-1")
William Hodge, "Signal Bag" beadwork bag, designed by William Hodge, Canada, 1988. (1989-44-1)
Jarcho, Scwarts, Yarles, Santilli, Ltd., two table lamps, glass shades on wood bases, by Mark McDonnell, USA, 1985. (1988-82-1,2)
JG Furniture Systems, Inc., "The Sportes Mesh Chair," armchair designed by Ronald C. Sportes, enameled steel, USA, 1984. (1989-57-1)
Faie J. Joyce, bequest, pair of side chairs by Rene Drouot, upholstered in Aubusson tapestry after design by Madeleine Luka, France, c. 1939. (1989-23-1,2) '
Jacques Jugeat, Inc. "Berlioz" vase designed by Claude Bromet, glass, France, 1986. (1988-100-1)
Koch & Lowy, Inc., "Dove" lamp designed by Mario Barbaglia and Marco Colambo, Italy, 20th century. (1989-60-1)
Martin Kramer, man’s tobacco pouch, printed leather, Germany, 1865-70. (1989-33-1)
Ed Krauss, two drawings of interiors by George Lahey, USA, 20th century. (1988-103-1,2)
Kravet Fabrics, Inc., length of fabric, "Futura," USA. (1988-86-1)
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore A. Krieg, porcelain tea service with enamel and gilt decor, Russian, Juznetson factory, late 19th century. (1988-96-1la-9b)
J. Russell Lynes, pop-up ad for Tavern Flrstenberg, The Hague. (1989-70-1)
Marimekko oy, six lengths of printed fabrics by various designers, printed in Finland by Marimekko oy. (1988-110-1-6)
Mrs. C. R. Marshall, fragment of printed linen, Italy or Spain, late l6th-early 17th century. (1988-93-1). .
Betty Ivy Martin, Crocheted bag, USA or Europe, 19th century. (1988-78-1). Crocheted and knitted bag, USA, 19th century. (1988-78-2).
David McFadden, three-piece flatware set by Jean-Marie Patois, stainless steel, France, 1980s. (1988-115-1-3)
Micio & Co., samplebook of 69 wallcoverings, "Micio & Co., Number Five", USA,
c. 1988. (1988-106-1(1-69).
Migeon & Migeon, six bangle bracelets, resin, by Migeon & Migeon, France, 1988 (1989-15-1-6).
Mont Blanc, "Target" wristwatch from Grafix line, designed by Michael Honack and Joey Rayburn-Thomas, rubber strap and case, USA, 1988. (1989-43-1)
Josef Mrozec, cream jug, porcelain, Germany, c. 1930. (1989-47-1)
Naos Graphics, nineteen cut paper cards and one three-dimensional graphic designed by Ted Naos, USA, 20th century. (1988-97-1-20)
wy) SS) \o

<<<Page: 345>>>

Boras Wafveri AB, lengths of fabric "Populus" and "Pram" by Sven Fristedt, Sweden. (1988-87-1,2)
Wahlworks Textiles, "Golden Section," length of fabric and two color ways by Wendy Wahl, USA. (1989-45-la-c)
Walker Group/CNI, eleven drawings; designs for Park Regency Condominium, in Houston, Texas by Venturi, Rauch, and Scott Brown, USA. (1988-104-1-11)
Page Williams, sample of the construction of tapp-lace, USA, 1900s. (1989-56-1)
William Woolfenden, Side chair and lounge chair of corrugated cardboard and masonite by Frank 0. Gehry, USA, 1970. (1988-79-1,2)
Zojirushi Corp. & Toyoda Gosei Co. Ltd., "Cubic" Bar set by Hitoshi Oshima, plastic, Japan, c. 1988. (1989-27-1-3b). Same as above in different color. (1989-27-4-6b)
ZOO-INK, five samples of fabrics by Alan Grinberg of ZOO-INK. (1988-113-1-5)
Zuber & Cie, four panels of wallcovering "Les Falaises" silk screen by Alain Le Foll, France, 1976. (1989-26-1-4)
FREER GALLERY OF ART Donors to the Collection
Mr. Robert H. Barton. Dish; pottery, Izumo ware; Japanese, Meiji period, 1868-1912.
Ms. Louise A. Cort. Seventeen shards; pottery; Japanese; Takatori ware, Uchigaiso kiln.
Mr. Dean Frasché. Twenty-four pieces of Thai pottery (1989.32-.56). Twenty-three pieces of Vietnamese pottery (1989.10-.31). Seven pieces of Chinese pottery (1989.4-.9).
Mrs. Lucile Seaman Lamey. European shape teapot, pottery, Japan, Satsuma style, datable to 1904; in memory of her parents, Professor and Mrs. A. E. Seaman
Mr. Stanley J. Love. Hanging scroll painting, anonymous, "Lu Dongbing Subduing a Demon"; China, Zhe School, 14th-15th C.
Mr. and Mrs. LaRue Lutkins. Wardrobe with doors, shelves and drawers, huang-hua-li wood, China, Ming-Ch’ing dynasty, 17th C. (1989.57); armchair with woven reed seat, back splat of burl wood, China, 17th C. (1989.59); cabinet with doors and shelf, huang-hua-li wood, China, 17th Ga (2989058).
Mrs. Annemarie Pope. Carved wooden shop sign for a ceramics dealer,
Japan.
Mrs. Karol Kirberger Rodriguez. Bottle, underglaze cobalt decoration, ceramic, China, Ming dynasty, early 17th C. (1989.1); Porcelain platter, underglaze cobalt decoration, ceramic, Japan, early }7th C. (1989.2); and porcelain kendi, underglaze cobalt decoration, China, Ming dynasty, early 17th C.
Mrs. S. L. Tesone. Set of four paintings on paper, “Tales of Genji,"
Japan; set of four paintings on paper, battle scenes, Japan.

<<<Page: 346>>>

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN Donors to the Library
Olga Hirshhorn, Washington, D.C.
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN Donors to the Collection
Robert Brown Gallery. Painting by Oliveira Cesar (89.1).
Dr. Joseph A. Chazen. Mixed media on glass by Howard Ben Tre “(88-33:3)*s
Charles Cowles. Collage on fiberboard by Wallace Berman (88.030 jes
Harry Kahn. Etching on paper by Dorothea Rockburne (88.32).
Estate of Boris Lovet-Lorski. Sculpture by the artist (8:9 S21 23
Philip Sherrod. Painting by the artist (88.42).
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program. Serigraph by Willem De Looper (89.10).
Estate of Raphael Soyer. Drawings on paper in five sketchbooks (88.33-88.37).

<<<Page: 347>>>

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM Donors to the Collections
Avirex, USA. One leather flying coat crrrently used by the USAF.
Mr. Charles Baptie. Oil Painting by David Shepherd, entitled: Capital Airlines Viscount Flying over New York City.
Estate of Ralph S. Barnaby. Collection of: Two Early Bird medals, three Early Bird pins, two Early Bird plaques, one Early Bird cap, one Early Bird metal stamp, two World War I United States Victory medals, one United States Discharge pin, one Frank Lahm medal, cone United States World War I pilot’s badge, one silver Aero Show trophy cup, National Soaring Museum patch and
Ms. Louise Beatty. Early Bird metal stam enblen.
Ms. Elizabeth Beauregard. 20 piece women’s uniform, Customer Service Manager,
Carnegie Institution of Washington. Slide rule with case.
Mr. Edwin G. Collen. Royal Air Force aircraft bubble sextant used in World War Tr.
Cray Research, Inc. Cray 1 super computer processor.
Dai Shucheng, Shanghai Aerobatic Troupe. Two boomerangs, two bladed used by
troupe.
Ms. Natale J. Donato. Martin 130 China Clipper wood model aircraft.
Professor Michael J. Flack. Color print entitled L’ascension de Vincent Lonardivenititen a Londres en 1784 by Ch. Dupont, V. Levallois ed. Paris 1790. Ford Aerospace & Commmications Organization. Intelsat V, scale model satellite.
Mr. Gordon Friang. Nine pieces of United States Army, World War I clothing.
Mr. Paul E. Garber. Four Japanese aircraft instruments of World War I vintage.
General Services Administration. Lycoming aircraft reciprocating engine.
Mr. Monte F. Graham. AEF footlocker, two canteens, personal papers and various medals.
Grid Systems Inc.. Grid compass II, on board computer for Space Shuttle.
Mrs. John J. Ide. Two eighteenth century balloon commemorative boxes made of tortoise shell. Ome oil painting by Eduard Soussa, entitled: Portrait of John J. Ide.
Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Physics Department. Saturn launch computer cabinets with core memory planes and transistorized circuit boards used as units with the RCA 110 A digital computer.
International Telecommications Satellite Organization. Intelsat IV, scale mdel satellite.
Mr. Ira Milton Jones. Miniature World War I Overseas Flyer’s Association Trophy.
E. Thomas Magoffin. Laffayette Escadrille commemorative medal and Quiet Birdman membership card, (metal).
Mr. Frank X. Marsh. Mitchell U-2 Superwing kit built flying wing aircraft.
McDonnell Douglas Astronautics. United States space station model and space smittle orbiter model.
Miss Alberta Meyer. Two World War II aircraft food containers.
Mr. Robert C. Mikesh. Microphone T-17 used on a B-26 aircraft.
Ministat de France, Romainia. Romainian c. 1940, pilot’s cap, badge, trousers, and coat.
Monterey Park Police Department through Captain Joseph A. Santoro. Ultraflight Lazair SS EC ultralight type aircraft.
Mr. Greg Mort. Watercolor, entitled: Year of the Comet.

<<<Page: 348>>>

NASA, Johnson Space Center. HP=-41 handheld calculator with pouch. Two emergency breathing appartus. One 16 mm data acquisition camera.
Northrop Corporation. B-2 bomber aircraft wood and plastic model.
Northwest Airlines. McDonnell Douglas Aerospace plane model.
Pepsi-Cola Company through Rebecca Madeira. One painting of Christa McAuliffe by Mel Bolden.
Mr. Robert W. Pfeiffer. One German World War II aviator leather helmet.
Mr. John Piccard. Fabric from "Century of Progress" balloon.
Mr. Charles T. Preston. Fourteen pieces of aircraft radio equipment.
It. Commander James A. Quinlin. Black and grey American Airlines wool bootie.
Mrs. Stephanie L. Sands. 37 piece women’s uniform, Pan American Purser, c. 198487.
Captain William E. Scarboruogh, USN (ret.). Consolidated PBY-1 Catalina metal promotional aircraft model.
Mr. Arlo E. Schroeder. Grumman TBF-1C Avenger model aircraft.
Mr. Zay Smith. United Airlines fight calculator.
Smithsonian Institution, National Air and Space Museum, Office of Volunteer Services. Four letters to Paul E. Garber that are signed by astronaut Mary Cleave and carried aboard the space shuttle in May 1989.
Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of American Art. Two lithographs by Paul Nash, entitled: Moonlight Voyage, Hampden Flying Above the Clouds and The Raiders on the Moors.
Mr. John A. Sproston. Oil painting, entitled: Racing the Front.
Swiss Air Force Museum. One de Havilland Ghost 48 Mk I turbojet engine.
Textron Lycoming. Avco Lycoming PLF1A-2 high bypass turbofan engine.
United Airlines. United Airlines terminal sign.
United States Air Force, Reese Air Force Base. Terrain board and remte camera mechanism associated with terrain board.
United States Air Force, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Lockheed C-130A, Hercules transport aircraft.
United States Army Fort L. Wood Museum. One Luftwaffe fur-lined coat and one Luftwaffe fur-lined cap with eagle insignia.
United States Marine Corps Air Ground Museum. Three Soviet Shavak aircraft guns.
United States Navy, David Taylor Research Center. Three wind tunnel dirigible wood models.
United States Navy Department. Five World War II recognition models.
United States Navy, Naval Air Systems Command. McDonnell Douglas F-4S Phantom II aircraft.
Mrs. R. Kimberling Winters. NARC superhomer VHT-3 aviation radio superhomer VHT-3 aviation radio transmitter.
Mr. Walter Wright. Acryllic painting, Toward the Summit .
Yerkes Observatory. Flown V-2 spectrograph camera.
Ms. Vera Zorn and Mr. Eugene A. Studenski. Leather flying jacket, helmet, boots and doll mascot.
Donors to the Information Management Division
1361st Audio Visual Sqd.: group photograph of 20th Air Force commanders meeting with Brigadier General Roger Ramey, 1945.
Air France: certificate commemorating the Air France Concorde dedication at Dulles International Airport, April 16, 1989.

<<<Page: 349>>>

Mr. Glenn D. Anderson: booklet promoting the Consolidated Model 14 "Husky Junior" aircraft, 1928.
Mr. Horace Alter: 3 cu. ft. of aerospace design materials relating to Convair and Lockheed, 1941-1970s.
Mr. Jeff Asner: War Department technical manual mmber T™ 1-205 entitled Air Navigation, November 25, 1940.
Mr. Walter G. Bailey: copy of Aircraft Mechanics, Inc., undated.
Dr. William J. Ballard: material related to Paramount Aircraft and that firm’s Chief designer, Walter James Carr, ca. 1920s-1930s.
Mr. Charles Baptie: Pratt and Whitney engine handbook detailing the Wasp and Hornet engines, 1924.
Mrs. Louise Beatty: photographs, newsclippings, and corresponence related to the career of aviator George Beatty, ca. 1910-1928.
Mr. J. Ted Beebe: memorabilia related to James H. "Jack" Knight, an early airmail and commercial airline pilot, ca. 1930s-1940s.
Mr. John Berendt: blueprint and photocopies showing engine mount structure for the Fairchild 24 Ranger 6-440-C5 engine, 1943.
Mrs. John D. Bick: memorabilia related to World War I aviator Robert McKnight, Ca. 1978).
Mr. & Mrs. Warren M. & Catherine C. Bodie: 101 aviation photographs and 109 negatives of aviation photographs, 1928-1977.
Mr. Michael W. Bourguin: 14 drawings of the Mitchell U-2 Superwing, 1980. Col. Eduard Brandt: three Spencer Aircraft Engine crank case drawings, June and July, 1940.
Mr. A. Raymond Brooks: photographs, documents, and other memorabilia related to the aviation career of A. Raymond Brooks, 1910-1988.
Mr. August E. Brunsman: nine tape recordings of interviews with relatives of and others familiar with Wilbur and Orville Wright, 1986-1988.
Mr. Henry F. Colvin, III: copy of a postal telegram to Fred Colvin from Charles A. Lindbergh, May 26, 1927.
Mr. Doug Connell: photograph of early aviator Hugh Armstrong Robinson, October L7~ O11.
Mrs. Evelyn Curtis: correspondence, logs, photographs and other memorabilia related to John S. Curtis, 1929-1985.
t of Aeronautics, NASM: airline timetables and informational brochures,
1973-1988.
Department of Aeronautics, NASM: photographs, documents, and correspondence related to Elton R. Silliman and Pan American Airways, 1930-1982.
Department of Aeronautics, NASM: C.A.S.A. Spanish technical manual, undated.
tt of Aeronautics, NASM: drawing of the man-powered aircraft G.A.L.M.P.
A.G. 520, May 23, 1965.
Department of Space History, NASM: color photographs of the Apollo-Soyuz, 1970s.
Department of Space History, NASM: drawings of an anthropomorphic android used for testing space suits, 1964.
Mr. Herb Desind: two photographs, one of a small astronomy satellite and one showing OGO-2 on Thor-Agena D, undated.
Dover Air Force Base: over-sized color photograph of the first all-woman C-5 flight crew, March 29-April 4, 1988.
Mr. Robert F. Dreesen: seven photographs taken at the Bealeton Flying Circus, Bealeton, Virginia, 1984-1985.
Mr. Leo P. Driessen: photograph of Charles A. Lindbergh in the cockpit of a Lockheed P-38 Lightning at Nadzab, New Guinea, 1944.
Dryden Air Force Base: drawings, schematics, and other documentation related to the HiMAT radio controlled model aircraft, 1976-1981.

<<<Page: 350>>>

Mr. Phillip Edwards: two posters, one commemorating 75 years of U.S. Naval Aviation, one of the Bell/Boeing V-22 "Osprey", undated.
Mr. Joseph Elbert: 33 patent letters and associated material for the invertions of Frank G. Manson, 1931-1955.
Mr. Ariel Fabius: 18 photographs of Uruguayan aircraft, 1929-1973. Fairchild Industries: 242 cu. ft. of corporate records dommenting the history and evolution of the company, 1919-1980.
Mr. Ian Flowers: seven photographs of Charles and Anne Morrow Lindbergh with their Lockheed Sirius aircraft, October 1931.
Mr. Peter Foster: news clippings of setting the 1988 amhibian altitude record, 1988.
Fort Mormouth, United States Army: technical manuals for military electronic equipment, 1940-1970.
Fort Sill Museum: 23 photographs related to aviation history and development, undated.
Ms. Helene S. Francis: photographs taken by Gifford E. Francis in Europe dauring World War I, 1918-1919.
Ms. Pamela French: 79 official U.S. Army photographs taken by Charles Barber, 1914-1918.
Mr. J. Norman Fresh: blueprints, photographs, and other material related to naval aviation at the Washington Navy Yard, 1881-1968.
Mr. Kevin Friel: newspaper articles concerning early aviation in Philadephia, PA, October 1919-May 1920.
Mr. Edward Frosdick: six photographs, four of which show Amelia Earhart and her Lockheed Electra, 1936-1937.
Mr. Robert Fulton: two tape recordings of interviews with Robert Fulton conducted by Bernie Maggin, December 8, 1988.
Mrs. Pegoy Gardner: material concerning the Concorde supersonic transport aircraft, 1988 and undated.
Mrs. Kathryn Gasker: six color slides of emergency transport helicopters taken at
Children’s Hospital, Cambridge, MA, 1970.
Mrs. R.S. Goff: booklet prepared for a dinner honoring Mrs. Minta Martin on her 85th birthday, Jamuary 15, 1949.
Mr. Marvin M. Green: newspaper article concerning WI "ace" George A. Vaughn as well as his autograph, April 29, 1989 and undated.
Mr. Manfred Griehl: 11 photographs of the Junkers Ju-38-G, Ju-52, Ju-290 amd the Messerschmitt Me-109G, undated.
Mr. Tom Harnish: four color photographs of a Beech Travel Air aircraft, 1988.
Ms. Bernice Falk Haydu: scrapbook detailing the lives and training of Women’s Air Force Service Pilots, 1942-1944.
Mr. James A. Hedgpeth, Jr.: 75 photographs, primarily aerial reconnaisance, of World War II bombings of France and Cologne, 1944.
Mr. Frank Hempstead: "Vin Fiz" advertising leaflet, undated.
Mr. John W. Hinds: taped interview with and a diary belonging to Rev. Dayle R. Schnelle, September 1942-November 1945.
Mr. Joseph W. Hoffman: article concerning Jack Gilberti that appeared in the Pittsburgh Press, December 2, 1988.
Mrs F.G. Holechede: scrapbook and memorabilia related to Paul Wiesser, a German World War I pilot, 1910s.
Mr. Kenneth A. Hoyt: three drawings from the Briggs Mamufacturing Company for the B-29 ball turret, undated.
Mr. John E. Hunter: certificate awarded W. T. Milam by the Royal Netherlands Indies Airways, Jamuary 23, 1941.

<<<Page: 351>>>

Mr. Frank C. Hyne: newspaper article about Florence Singbiel, designer and painter of aircraft nose art during WII, August 29, 1988.
Mr. Thomas R. Jakmides: technical manuals for the Goodyear ZPG-3W, undated.
Mrs. Sheila F. James: photocopies of newspaper clippings relating to the
ballooning career of John P.. Feagley, 1918 and undated.
Mr. Jeff Karpiak: 65 photographic negatives and six color slides, primarily of North American P-51 Mustang aircraft, ca. 1944.
Mr. Robert J. Kelly: newspaper articles concerning early aviation in Philadelphia, PA, October 1919-May 1920.
Mrs. C.B. Kemper: letter with original envelope written by Pearl Young to Mrs. Floyd Thompson while on board the Hindenburg, 1936.
Dr. Frank Korf: photographs, newspaper articles, correspondence, and publications of Dr. Hildegard Kallmann-Bijl, 1949-1968.
Dr. Robert Krauskopf: four photographs of the Messerschmidt BF 109 anda
three-view drawing of a 1930 German bomber, 1936. .
Mrs. Lois Kuster: approximately 2,000 photographs of aircraft amd aviation pioneers, 1930s.
Ms. Elizabeth S. Lancer: photographs, correspondence and other memorabilia related to World War I pilot Robert Soubiran, 1914-1919.
Mr. Robert Lannen: over 2,000 slides of various aircraft from around the world, 1960s-1970s.
Mr. Leslie Lenkowsky: notebooks, photographs, and other material related to the early development of helicopters, 1936-1946.
Mrs. Lilian E. Leppanen: Daniel Guggenheim Fund Award for the promotion of aeronautics presented to Olaf S. Emblem, December 1928.
Mrs. Gwyneth Lind: memorabilia from World War II, ca. 1940s.
Mr. Eric Lumdahl: 22 photographs of various aircraft, 1988.
Mr. Robert Mann: news article relating to setting the 1988 Amphibian altitude record, 1988.
Mr. Alton K. Marsh: 60 color slides of the Experimental Aircraft Association’s Air Show at Oshkosh, Wisconsin, 1986.
Mr. Frank X. Marsh: 14 drawings of the Mitchell U-2 Superwing, 1980.
Mr. Oren Lee Martin: Lynn V. Blankman collection, photographs of aircraft and engines, famous women pilots, newspapers articles on early aviation exploits, 1906-1959.
Mrs. Isabel Bandeira De Mello Mathias: biographical material on the aviation career of Isabel Bandeira De Mello Mathias, undated.
Mrs. D.A.G. Mathieson: letter with original envelope written by Pearl Young to Mrs. Floyd Thampson while on board the Hindenburg, 1936.
Mr. Hiram H. Maxim: five books and two binders related to Sir Hiram H. Maxin, ca. 1890-1916.
Metropolitan Museum of Art/Thamas Watson Library: promotional letter from the Crusader Aircraft Corporation, September 25, 1936.
Ms. Maureen Mullen: brief biographical sketch of early balloonist Frank T. Coleman entitled "Life of an Astronaut", undated.
Ms. Maureen Mullen: three newspaper articles about nineteenth century balloonist Nellie Thurston (Mrs. Herman Squire), ca. 1966.
Mr. Brian D. Nicklas: three color photographs of a Boeing B-17G Flying Fortress and a Boeing KC-135, September 1988.
Ms. Dolores O’Neill: photograph of Amelia Earhart with her instructor Odell Garrison, undated.
Mrs. W.B. Olstad: letter with original envelope written by Pearl Young to Mrs. Floyd Thampson while on board the Hindenburg, 1936.

<<<Page: 352>>>

Mr. Richard Ostry: oversized photograph of a Consolidated B-36 in flight along with two Grumman Panther jet aircraft, 1954.
Mr. Joseph J. Pace: photographs and negatives documenting the Flexible Gummery Training Unit at Landhi Field, Malir, India, 1944-1945.
Mr. Helmit Paling: photograph and obituary of Clarence Chamberlain, 1927 and 1976.
Mr. Anton Palmai: photographs, articles, and other documentation on the astromautics career of Herman Oberth, 1923 amd 1955-1959.
Mr. Ed Peters: owners manuals for the Mooney Mark 21 Model M20C and the Mark 22 Mustang, 1967.
Mr. Fred Quarles: original drawings of and reports on the Mooney M-18 "Mite" aircraft, 1946-1948.
Mr. Christopher Reynolds: 55 photographs of airplanes and airships, 1916-1920.
Mr. James R. Roberson: three photographs of the Boeing B-29 "Enola Gay", 1945.
Mr. & Mrs. Rowland E. Roberts: photographs, newspaper clippings, copies of Gecorations, and aerial combat reports, 1918-1981.
Rockwell International: original 3-view and marking drawings of North American aircraft models B-25, P-82, amd T-6, 1940s.
Mr. James B. Rome: two volumes of Royal Air Force Technical Notes on World War I aircraft, Cae 1910s.
Mr. Daniel L. Royce: air racing memorabilia and U.S. Air Service magazines, 1920-1926.
Mr. Thomas M. Sammons: photograph of the Convair XFY-1 "Pogo Stick", ca.
1952-1954.
Captain W.E. Scarbourgh: photographs of navy aircraft, 1937-1944.
Mr. Raymond W. Scheetz: 35 regional and sectional aeronautical charts, June 1943June 1945.
Rev. Dayle R. Schnelle: taped interview with and a diary belonging to Rev. Dayle Schnelle, September 1942-November 1945.
Mr. Paul J.F. Schumacher: photographs of ballooning in Zurich and of an English aircraft brought down by Baron von Richthoven, 1909.
Mr. Avro M. Sestrap: six photographs of Amelia Earhart and her Lockheed Electra, 1937.
Mr. George J. Siegel: photographs taken for the First Motion Picture Unit, displayed on two backboards, 1940s.
Mr. Dan Simmonds: photographs, posters, calendars, and other material related to aircraft and missiles, 1970s-1980s.
Mr. Ellsworth J. Snyder: album (mumber 8 of 11) highlighting the family and aviation career of Charles B. Snyder, ca. 1850-1940.
Ms. Rosemary Soubiran: photographs, correspondence and other memorabilia related to World War I pilot Robert Soubiran, 1914-1919.
Mr. Jay P. Spencer: 50 captioned photographs showing helicopters of the Hiller Aircraft Company, 1943-1964.
Mr. Jay P. Spenser: ten photographs of Fokker aircraft and a late 1920s tractor, 1928.
Mr. Fred L. Staffieri: seven color prints from a Trans-World Airlines calendar and three periodical photographs, 1940 and undated.
Mr. Hans-Heiri Stapfer: four photographs of a MIL MI-14 HAZE, undated.
Mr. Vincent Stevison: photocopied information on the French G-6 and R-4 Caudron aircraft, undated.
Dr. Eugene Studenski: two scrapbooks and the personal papers of Dr. Paul
Studenski, an early aviator, 1910-1961.
Mr. Glen Sweeting: newspaper clippings written in German concerning ballooning in Germamy, 1890-1891 and 1903.

<<<Page: 353>>>

Ms. Margaret P. Thacher: letter written by Helen Campbell Robertson desribing her flight on a Western Air Express Fokker Tri-Motor, 1929.
Mrs. Marguerite Traxler: original correspondence signed by Charles A. Lindbergh, April 24, 1924.
Mr. J. Gordon Vaeth: photocopies of information concerning the disappearance of Amelia Earhart and her aircraft, 1937 and 1977.
Mr. Charles G. Waldrop: 20 drawings of the Bucker Bu.133 Jungmeister, May 1965.
Mrs. Aderyn Walker: photographs, a manuscript, and copies of newspaper articles concerning Montague Francis Glew, undated.
Ms. Winifred Weislogel: photographs related to aviation history, 1924-1932.
Mrs. Norma S. White: videotape of a slide presentation on the life of black aviator Chauncey E. Spencer, 1988.
Mr. Don Wigton: 26 photographs of aircraft, undated.
Mr. Kenneth A. Wilson : hand fan with images of Charles Lindberch and the "Spirit of St. Louis" on ome side, ca. 1920s-1930s.
Mr. William A. Wylam: photocopies of two technical manuals written in French for the Renault 12-FE and Fiat A-12 engines, ca. 1917-1918.
Dr. Vera Zorn: two scrapbooks and personal papers of Dr. Paul Studenski, amd early aviator, 1910-1961.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART Donors to the Collection Marc Leo Felix. Gourd of the Kwere poeples of Tanzania. (89-05-001) Dr. and Mrs. Robert Kuhn. Door by Olowe of Ise. (88-13-001). Robert and Nancy Nooter. Mask, Bassa people, Liberia. (88-14-001). Philip Ravenhill and Judith Timyan. Hat of the Malinké, Guro or Wan peoples, Central Céte d'Ivoire. (89-01-001) Cloth of the Kulango peoples, Bouna, Céte d'Ivoire. (89-02-001).
Republic of Mali. Female figure from Mali. (89-03-001).
Blake Robinson. Three snuff mortars from Liberia. (88-15-001, 88-15-002, 88-15-003).
Roy and Sophia Sieber. Tripod chair from Tiv, Nigeria. (88-16-001).
Ciro R. Taddeo. Italian and Austrian "Thalers" coins. (Italian: 89-04-001, Austrian: 89-04-002).
ww hb oo

<<<Page: 354>>>

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART Donors to the Collection
American Art Forum. Market Day Outside the Walls of Tangiers, Morocco, 1873, oil on canvas, by Louis Comfort Tiffany (1989.56).
Alfred Bendiner Foundation. 1 work on linen, 4 works on paper,
1960, 1948, 1936, 1953, 1946, by Alfred Bendiner (1988.81.1-5).
Thomas W. Bower. Two Rhinoceri, 1975, pencil drawing, by Joan Danziger (1988.79).
William P. Carl. Trees, 1989, woodcut, by William P. Carl (1989.31).
Alice Swinden Carter. Untitled (Abstraction), 1945, gouache, and Woman and Girl, ca. 1955, oil on canvas, by Albert Swinden (1988.90.1,2).
Consolidated Natural Gas Foundation. Everglades, 1986, and Everglades, 1988, by Mary Peck, black-and-white photographs, (1989.34.1,2); 5 ektacolor prints, 1982, 1979, n.d., 1981, 1979, by Terry Evans (1989.38.1-5); 3 ektacolor prints 1986, by Joe Maloney (1989.39.1-3); 4 ektacolor prints, 1985, 1987, 1985, 1987, by Len Jenshel (1989.39.4-7); 2 palladian prints, 1988, by Andrea Modika (1989.41.1,2); Patterns of Destruction, 1988, unique black-and-white photograph, by Tina Potter (1989.49); “Shooting Sites,” Las Vegas #20, 1987, printed 1989, cibachrome print, "Shooting Sites, Angeles National Forest #12, 1988, printed 1989, cibachrome print, by Anthony Louis Hernandez (1989.50.1,2); 3 selenium-toned, black-and-white contact prints, 1982, 1983, 1988, by Allen Hess (1989.53.1-3); Silver City, Nevada, gelatin silver selenide print and Goshen, Utah, from "Main Street” series, color photograph, by Frank Armstrong (1989.54.1,2).
Henrietta Cunningham, Todd and Lucia Bogatay. Javanese Mother and Child, 1936, ceramic, by Paul Bogatay (1988.94).
G. H. Dalsheimer Gallery, Ltd. RIOT, 1988, mixed media on paper, by Leslie Machinist (1989.37).
Estate of Donald DeLue. Icarus, 1934, plaster, by Donald DeLue (1989.29).
Thomas Fountain. Title unknown, ca. 1950, oil on canvas, by Jennings Tofel (1988.75).
Andrew Freireich. Debris Series #3, 1987, unique black-and-white photograph by Tina Potter (1989.45).
Chaim Gross. 5 drawings on paper, 1938-1939, 1937, 1937, 1937, 1936, by Chaim Gross (1988.91.1-5).
Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr. 11 paintings, 6 sculptures, 1 decorative art work, by various artists (1988.74.1-18); Wedding Basket, n.d., sweet grass and ash spolints, by Mary Adams; Portrait of Elizabeth Taylor, oil on canvas, by Andrea Badami; Screen Door, ca. 1930-37, carved wood, by Jose Delores Lopez; Lancaster County Embroidery Quilt, 1905, embroidered, cut, and stitched fabric, by an unidentified artist (1989.30.1-4).
Jerry Jackson. 2 color etchings and a color lithograph, 1920, 1922 ca. 1928-early 1930s, by William Meyerowitz; Mexican Market, ca. 1952, black-and-white etching, by Theresa Bernstein (1988.89.1-4).

<<<Page: 355>>>

Mr. and Mrs. W. Robert Johnston. Suburban Overlook, 1972, acrylic on canvas, by Val Lewton (1988.87).
Adele Lozowick. 35 works on paper, by Louis Lozowick (1988.65.1-33).
Nan Tucker McEvoy. Stillscape II, 1984, cast bronze, by Brian Hunt (1989.6); Untitled (man reading a newspaper), 1988, color photo by Larry Sultan (1989.58).
John McNemar, P. E. Baby Dragon, 1985, mixed media, by Barton Benes (1988.93).
Djelloul Marbrook. Boats, Cape Cod, 1932, oil on canvas, by Irene Rice Pereira (1988.80).
Alexander Masley. 5 wood engravings, 1932, 1926, 1930, 1926, 1932, by Alexander Masley (1989.57.1-5)
Marilyn and Michael Mennello. Blue Sail Fleet Returns, ca. 1950, oil on canvas, by Earl Cunningham (1988.64).
Patrick A. Morelli. Infant from "Behold" monument, 1985, bonded bronze, by Patrick A. Morelli (1989.10).
Irving Penn. 60 photographs, by Irving Penn (1988.83.1-60).
Perkins Center for the Arts. Untitled (seated female nude), 1987, gelatin silver print, by Ricardo Barros (1988.73).
Irving Potter. Modern Music and Organizational Advances, ca. 1930s, woodcut prints by Albert Potter (1989.11.1,2).
Bernard Rabin in memory of Henry A. Rabin. 5 untitled etchings, ca. 1910, by Joseph Stella (1989.17.1-5).
Henry Ward Ranger Bequest. Carousel Bridge, Paris, 1952, oil on board, by Edwin Dickinson (1988.84); Conversation, oil on board, by John Koch (1988.85); My Studio, oil on canvas, by John Koch (1988.86).
James Renwick Alliance. Large Platter, 1988, glass, by Michael Higgins and "Drop-Out"™ Bowl, 1988, glass, by Frances Higgins (1989.7.1,2); Untitled (#8) Vessel, ca. 1976, stoneware with white glaze, by Frans Wildenhain (1989.9); Emerald Green Blanket, 1984, blown glass, by Dale Chihuly (1989.44).
Frank Ribelin. Drawing for Southwest Pieta, 1983, oil pastel drawing, by
Luis Jiminez (1988.82).
Smithsonian Resident Associates Program. Tunis on My Mind, 1988, serigraph, by Willem DeLooper (1988.76).
Mr. and Mrs. James N. Rosenberg. Overhanging Branches, oil on cardboard on masonite; 57th Street, oil on cardboard on masonite; Rocky Seashore, oil on paper on cardboard; Sleeping Nymphs, oil on wood; Two Gulls and Cliffs, oil on canvas, by Louis Michel Eilshemius; Rolling Clouds, oil on canvasboard; Adirondacks, oil on paperboard, by James N. Rosenberg (1989.43.1-7).
Elizabeth Russell and Jeff. Urban Self-Projection, 1988, woodblock print, by Nicholas Sperakis (1988.77).
Dr. and Mrs. Shipley. Egg Series II: Cow Skull, 1986, serigraph, by Joe Price (1989.32).
Ms. Marilyn Stokstad. Hull #2, ca. 1982, revised 1988, wood, leather and mixed media, by Mark Roeyer (1988.78).
Mme. Jeanne T. Strong. Between Lausanne and Vevey above the Highway, ca. 1897-1913, watercolor, by Templeton Strong (1988.95).
Jo C. Tartt, Jr. 3 works, 1988, tempera on construction paper, by Eric Calvin McDonald (1988.88.1-3).
Lucien Treillard. 12 photographs, dated from 1924-39, by Man Ray (1989.55.1-12).

<<<Page: 356>>>

National Museum of American History Donors to the National Collections
AMF Bowling Company (through Paul Lane): set of 2 bowling balls without finger holes drilled (1987.3094).
Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (through James L. Loper): Emmy award statuette (1983.0053).
Mignon Sherley Acker, Swager Sherley, Jr., Thomas H. Sherley, Marjorie Sherley Wolcott, and Olive Sherley Young: 21 issues of "The Woman's Protest," 3 pamphlets, 3 brochures, a flyer, and a newpaper, all related to the National Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage, 1912-18 (1988.0282); sash with button attached, "Equal Franchise for New York, 1915"(1988.0347); photograph of representatives of the National Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage after seeing President Wilson on December 14, 1915 (1988.0536); 94 miscellaneous documents, news clippings, letters, and postcards, 40 copies of "The Woman's Protest Against Woman Suffrage," a pennant, and a booklet, all relating to the opposition to woman's suffrage (1989.0225).
Jan Adkins: flute made of polycarbonate plumbing pipe with a cork stopper by John Ingalls in 1978 (1988.0490).
City of Adrian, Utilities Department (through John C. Jenkins): Holly Manufacturing Company fire hydrant used by the City of Adrian, Michigan from 1883 to 1988 (1989.0052).
Government of Aitutaki, Aitutaki Post Office: 13 mint stamps, 3 first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of Aitutaki (1988.0607).
Alpha Wire Corporation (through Allen P. Marconi): 100-foot spool of 50-wire rainbow ribbon computer cable (1988.3055).
American Airlines (through J. J. O'Neill): 7 components of the SABRE IBM 7090 computer system (1987.0130).
The American Institute of Architects Archives (through Tony P. Wrenn): bronze medal commemorating the centennial of the American Institute of Architects in 1957 (1988.0776).
American Red Cross, National Headquarters (through Mary D. Doering):
6 videotape cassettes and 7 posters, pamphlets and information packets about AIDS (1988.3143).
American Sterilizer Company (through Richard Mancuso): Surgical case cart with 3 wire shelves (1984.3008).
Americans for Robertson: press release packet (1989.0139).
Amtrak, National Railroad Passenger Corporation (through Bruce Heard): *"Jewelry/Watch Inspector" sign from Union Station in Chicago (1988.0102).
William Anderson: 3 packages of disposable acupuncture needles (1989.0129).
Anne M. and Charles E. Andrew in memory of Mrs. Alice E. Parry: pair of girl's Goodyear rubber boots, 1906 (1989.0083).
Anonymous: japanned tinware including a spice cannister set, bread box, molasses pitcher, and tea cannister, ca. 1900, and a child's highchair, 1875-1910 (1988.0541); 9 pieces of cookware, 8 games and toys, a set of paper tableware, insulator kit, toilet training seat, and a lazy susan (1988.0608); 2 sets of towel bars, 2 clothing dryers, a soap dish, set of place mats, package of preserve labels, and an aluminum tray (1988.3132).
Henry O. Archinal in memory of R. G. Curtis: prototype of a WW II ammunition box (1988.0298).

<<<Page: 357>>>

Lt. Col. Muriel M. Ardery, USAF (Ret.): U.S. Air Force experimental exercise skirt of blue denim (1989.0053).
Charles C. Armbruster, John Lee Armbruster, Ruama Jane Armbruster Nelson, and Betty Louise Armbruster Raite Patino: patient-sized chest portion of an iron lung invented by C. E. H. Armbruster and an air pump with fly wheel motor used to operate it (1982.0200).
Chris Armenis: Post Office Department patch with mail handler secondary patch and a metal postal employee's badge (1988.0574).
Dale Armstrong: crankshaft used in a drag racer, ca. 1986 (1987.0882).
Joan S. Atwell: paper dress printed "Nixon," worn at a Young Republican rally in Rochester, New York, 1968 (1988.0757).
Commonwealth of Australia, Headquarters of Australian Army, Australian Military Attache (through Brigadier P. K. Cole): submachine gun with accessories (1988.0019).
Reserve Bank of Australia, Currency and Banking Department (through N. W. Skillicorn): 10-dollar commemorative note printed on synthetic polymer-based paper, issued on January 26, 1988 (1988.0525).
Todd Axelrod: 2 violin bows, one made by Adam and the other made by Emile Ouchard (1988.0115).
BASF Structural Materials, Inc. (through Mykie Carroll and Rosemary McKeller): spool of Celion carbon fiber and a sample of carbon (1987.3108).
Babbitt for President Committee, Inc.: videotape cassette of a debate held November 25, 1987 (1989.0134).
A. E. Bachelet: model of a washboard patented by Celeste Bachelet in 1926 (1989.0019).
Franz Bader: 2 cibachrome photographs by Mr. Bader, Snow Writing and Brown and Yellow, 1988 (1989.0163).
Dorothy A. Badin in memory of Frederick B. Hanson: wooden sign, “Darkies Bathing Prohibited" (1988.0758).
Bailey Banks and Biddle (through Paul W. Thurston): white low-relief ceramic plate commemorating James Madison and the U.S. Constitutional Bicentennial, designed by Eugene Daub, 1987 (1987.0735).
Arlie L. and Vernamae Baker: songbook published by the National Temperance Society, 1889 (1988.0584).
Baldt, Inc. (through Frank Amalfitano): die-forged steel submarine anchor chain (1987.0604).
Lawrence R. Baldus in memory of G. Charter (Nick) Harrison: 3 Primary New York City-type air and spring guns, 1868-75 (1989.0118).
B & O/C & O Railroad (through R. J. Dischinger): 3 components and a pamphlet relating to the Datamatic 1000 computer system (1987.0748).
Walton G. Banks, Inc. (through Walton G. Banks): Monroe calculating machine and operating instruction (1984.3046).
Helen M. and Robert Barsoom: brass numeral "8" and a generator plate from the USS West Virginia and a brass generator plate from the USS Oklahoma, both sunk in Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941 (1988.0516).
Lt. Col. Grace M. Barth, USAF (Ret.): pair of @ress white uniform gloves (1989.0127).
Vineta D. Bartlett: pair of U.S. Navy white dress pumps worn by Ms. Bartlett during WW II (1989.0169); 3 wooden lace bobbins from Denmark, early 20th century (1989.0181).
Hester M. Bates: silver nursing nipple (1988.0602).
Raymond Battaglia: Elgin pocket watch, ca. 1911, and a Hamilton pocket watch, ca. 1928 (1988.0738).

<<<Page: 358>>>

Battelle Memorial Institute (through Paul T. Santilli): prototype production vessel, ca. 1955, and 9 tools made by the hot isostatic pressing metallurgical process (1987.0548); Columbus Division (through Ian M. Mercier): 2 polyethylene gas line pipe sections and a steel nuclear plant pipe section (1988.3042).
John K. Beaver: 22 rifle and pistol cartridges, a Krag rifle bullet anda Krag-Jorgensen rifle tool (1985.0365).
W. P. Bebbington: Edison Amberola phonograph, 1915-29 (1988.0050).
Beckman Instruments, Inc. (through Arnold 0. Beckman, Ph.D. and Robert R. Crittendon): Beckman Model E analytical ultracentrifuge used to obtain precise molecular measurements (1988.0493).
Robert W. Bemer: 8 notebooks and 3 booklets relating to the history of computer software (1979.3056).
H. Milton Benas in memory of Horace Wesley Benas: 2 theater programs and a souvenir book from the New York Hippodrome (1988.0715).
Dr. Jules E. Benbenek: Magnetron electron tube, 1936, and an ELMAC vacuum tube (1988.0805).
Elizabeth W. Bendiner: 55 pins and medals sold during WW II for war relief and a coin imprinted "Freedom, May 5, 1961" (1989.0017).
Beretta U.S.A. Corporation (through Robert D. Bass): 4 frames, 4 barrels, 4 slides, and 3 pistols, all showing the stages of construction of a Beretta M9 pistol (1989.0068).
Judith Berger: 2 chromolithographed Danish circus posters and an American silkscreened poster (1988.0694).
Helen Berman, Ph.D.: 4 Watson and Crick model DNA templates made at Cambridge University in March 1953 (1988.0494).
Elizabeth P. Berry: wooden surveyor's compass marked "Anthony Davenport, Portland" and an unmarked case (1989.0541).
Bescar Industries (through William H. Bessel): wooden crab-cracking mallet (1987.0635).
Harriet B. Best: 232 locomotive builders' plates (1986.0844).
Anthony E. Bisantz: Chinese type-54 pistol with accesories (1989.0119).
Black Box Collotype (through John V. Graff): 3 collotype prints of the Chicago Tribune building, 1922 (1988.0639).
Regina Blaszczyk: 2 patches, a cap, and a T-shirt from various bicycling events and a factory worker's apron (1988.0482).
Edward Marshall Boehm, Inc. (through Frank J. Cosentino): 2 unglazed porcelain figures of a "Screech Owl" and a plaster wing mold used in making the figures, ca. 1981 (1984.0067).
Gwendolyn R. Bolger: scarecrow costume worn by Ray Bolger in the 1939 motion picture The Wizard of Oz (1987.0608).
Philip Borish: key chain from the 1985 Inaugural Ball and a program and audiotape cassette from a First Lady's Tea held on June 9, 1988 (1988.0567).
Bowdoin College, Department of Physics (through E. O. LaCasce): 7 lantern slides and a set of 29 lantern slides, all showing astronomical subjects (1988.0385); 11 photographs making up Henry A. Rowland's map of the normal solar spectrum, 1888 (1989.0082).
Helen King Boyer: 18 etched aluminum printing plates by Louise M. Boyer and an etched plate by Helen King Boyer (1988.0582).
Peter B. Boyne: pair of man's khaki cotton trousers, 1955-65, and a man's cotton T-shirt, 1988 (1988.3151); pair of man's sandals, 1970 (1989.3005).
Susan A. Bradley and William Tarpai: Norte Vista High School varsity
wy) wn ws)

<<<Page: 359>>>

letterman's jacket, 1966 (1988.0552).
Margaretta W. Brede: woman's cape, 1855-70 (1988.0020).
Donald W. Broman II: letter with a dress fabric sample attached, early 19th-century, and a Victorian needlework ball (1987.0761).
Brother International Corporation (through P. T. Gilmore): EP-20 dot matrix portable typewriter-printer, ca. 1983 (1989.0005).
Carleton C. and Imogene C. Brower: 6 silver teaspoons, 1800-50; 6-piece Gorham and Company silver coffee and tea service, 1850-60; and a silver-plated tray by the Ellis-Barker Silver Companies, early 20th century (1988.0569).
Brown Univeristy, Afro-American Studies Program, Rites and Reason Committee (through George H. Bass and Ron Weaver): bronze sculpture, The Bird of New Hope, by Joseph Geran, 1980 (1989.0103).
Franklin H. Brown and Robin L. Brown: 12 pieces of infant's clothing and accessories, 1927 (1988.0481).
Louise Este Bruce in memory of Mrs. James Bruce: Abercrombie & Fitch generator/flashlight, ca. 1935 (1989.0362).
John E. Brunhammer: aluminum coin on a keychain inscribed "Ronald Reagan Coin 1982 Good for Nothing,* designed by Mr. Brunhammer (1988.0744).
James H. Bruns: 2 silver bowls, 1941-43, and a silver plate, 1969, awarded to Franklin R. Bruns, Jr. for outstanding philatelic research and writing (1987.0582).
Dorothy K. Burch: electric peanut-butter machine made by Salton, Inc., Ca. 1975 (1988..3165)..
Mrs. George Burch: 8 pieces of equipment developed and used by Dr. George Burch during his research in cardiology (1988.0366).
Burrell Advertising Company (through Allen Hovious and Robert A. Jackson): 7 tear sheets showing black craftsmen at work and used to advertise Jack Daniel's whiskey (1987.3131).
Burroughs Corporation, Defense and Space Group, Great Valley Laboratory (through J. Jay Wolf): 2 thin film memory planes, a set of 11 thin film memory circuits, set of 4 Burroughs computer models, Atlas computer model and an input/output package (1987.0822).
Herschel B. and Thelma M. Burt: 8 printing blocks (1987.0742).
John Byrne: piece of original "Superman" comic artwork (1987.0463). Calhoun's Collectors Society, Inc. (through Stafford Calvin): 13 23-carat gold stamps commemorating the American colonies, issued as local
emissions of Staffa, Scotland, 1975 (1988.0394).
Heather H. Campbell: 5 salve sticks, a salve tube and a salve label (1988.0648).
Louise D. Campbell: 344 geometric models made by A. Harry Wheeler (1979..0102).
Carpenter Technology Corporation (through W. E. Roberts): 11 components from an IBM 650 digital computer, 2 boxes of parts, and 18 pieces of documentation (306013).
Frances W. Carter: painted wooden sign from the Mt. Zion Mission Baptist Church (1986.0812).
Lena C. Carter: girl's 2-piece cotton dress and a pinafore apron, 1860-80 (19890123).
David L. and Joyce Q. Casey: 2 Sony Betamax videotape cassette recorders and 2 Sony videotape recorder auto changers, 1977-79 (1988.0784).
Russell K. Cashdollar: shot glass with slogan "Happy Days Are Here Again" and picture of a donkey (1988.0709).
Joseph A. Castellano, Ph.D.: 9 examples of early electronic watches and a

<<<Page: 360>>>

bomb sight, all with liquid crystal displays (1987.0039).
Castle Metals (through C. L. Reed): uncut crankshaft billet and semi-finished crankshaft (1988.3031).
Rachel Chelnick: Bausch and Lomb soft contact lens sterilizer (1989.0022).
The Chicago Public Library, Special Collections Division (through Laura Linard): graduation program from Western High School in the District of Columbia, June 22, 1893 (1989.0072).
Government of the Republic of China, Directorate General of Posts, The Philatelic Department: 102 stamps, 19 first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of the Republic of China (1987.0510).
George W. Christensen: man's denim jacket and trousers, wool tweed trousers, and suede "stars and stripes" trousers, all late 1960s (1989.0056).
Mrs. Hans Christensen: silver coffeepot with redwood handle made by Hans Christensen in 1955 (1989.0168).
Estate of Dorothy H. Christian (through F. Elwood Davis): 55 documents and personal memorabilia from the administration of President Warren G. Harding, 1921-23 (1986.0834); 3 books, 1916-34 (1986.3145).
Cinematronics Inc. (through Jim Pierce): video game titled °The Dragon's Lair" (1984.0891).
Eric H. Clamons: 10 sets of papers documenting the work of the ANSI X3L2 Committee on Codes which Mr. Clamons chaired, 1968-72 (1980.3029).
Mrs. Albert R. Clark: khaki cotton Eisenhower jacket worn by Sgt. Albert R. Clark; ca. “1945. 1(1989 0543).
Dolores J. Cleary: knit wool utility cap and a WAC/WAF "Pallas Athena" guidon, WW II (1988.0638).
Wayman Cobine in memory of Dolores Cobine: Model G 20-40 Rumely Oil-Pull tractor, cas 12920) (1988: 0372).
Ada M. Coe: miniature rubber boot (1988.0683).
Barbara J. Coffee: aluminum West Bend bun warmer, 1950s (1989.0220).
I. Bernard Cohen: 15 German posters on the history of computing devices and 2 IBM punched cards, 1930s (1988.0803).
Herbert R. Collins: 8 covers, 4 postal cards, and 3 postcards (1987.0410).
Columbia University, Columbia University Libraries (through Suzanne Fedunok): 2 books on factor stencils by Derrick N. Lehmer and 2 sets of stencils for factoring large numbers, 1929 (1988.0316).
Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (through Francine S. Zucker): union patch (1988.3133).
Donald D. Conard: "Verona" U.S. flag set for an automobile, 1920-25 (2989...0021).
Congress of National Black Churches (through Joseph Eaglin): poster, "Three Good Reasons Why You Should Register & Vote" (1987.0493).
S. Jackson Conn and William M. Conn: violin purchased by Solomon Conn in 1863 and carried by him during his service with the 87th Indiana Volunteers during the Civil War (1988.0716).
Consolidated Rail Corporation (through W. M. Wehner, P.E.): collection of approximately 10,000 drawings, blueprints and mechanical copies of Various structures built by railroads now part of CONRAIL (1987.3112).
Government of the Cook Islands, Post Office, Philatelic Bureau: 6 mint Stamps, 3 souvenir sheets, and 2 first day covers of the Cook Islands (1988.0193); 6 stamps and a first day cover of the Cook Islands (1989.0233).
Dr. Genrose Copley: 5 feed sacks, 3 disassembled feed sacks, and 2 feed sack fragments all made by Aubrey Feed Mills of Louisville, Kentucky,
SS) an ral

<<<Page: 361>>>

1940s-60s (1989.0276).
Rushton G. Cortelyou: autocamping tent, 1919 (1988.0768).
Cougar Chemical Corporation (through Roy Singleton, Jr.): sheet of Monsanto "AstroTurf" synthetic grass (1988.3049).
James P. Cragg, Jr. and Marie S. Cragg: "Irvington Rexall Pharmacy” sign, 7 medicines, a dispensing bottle, and a perfume display bottle (1989.0091); 21 pharmacy labels, a bag, and a pad (1989.3022).
Jeffery R. D. Crockett in memory of Mr. and Mrs. Norton S. Crockett: Columbia Viva-Tonal grafonola portable phonograph, ca. 1928 (1987.0031).
Theodore R. Crom: part of a watch crown wheel rounding-up tool, 19th century (1987.0185).
Thomas N. Cross, M.D.: gold-plated pencil case worn on a watch chain and a box of pencil refills, ca. 1910 (1987.0209).
Government of Cuba, Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Empresa de Correos, Prensa y Filatelia: 47 mint stamps, 24 first day covers, anda souvenir sheet of Cuba (1987.0431).
Lt. Comdr. Bruce Emmet Curtin and Gail Curtin: U.S. Cavalry enlisted man's dress coat, 1872-84, worn in service by Thomas Robert Curtin, Sr. (1989.0474).
DC Comics Inc. (through Paul Levitz): 8 folders and a box of "Superman" comic books and strips, scripts, illustrations, books promotional Material, and newspaper clippings (1988.3084).
D. D. Half Ball Inc. (through Bernard P. O'Brien): 5 balls and a bat used to play half-ball (1988.0605).
Mark H. Dall: pocket watch with Swiss movement and a U.S. silver hunter case, ca. 1866 (1988.0796); sword belt and plate used by William H. Dall, 1851 (1988.0800).
Pete Daniel: 5 phonograph records (1988.0374).
Danmarks Grafiske Museum (through Ervin Nielsen): chromolithograph portrait of Thorwaldsen by P. E. Johanssen, ca. 1935 (1988.0673).
The Dannon Company, Inc. (through Barbara Beck): advertising poster showing a construction worker eating yogurt (1988.3138).
Darnestown Limited Partnership (through Michael B. Landow): section of patterned concrete block wall section, 1913 (1988.3156).
Davidson: geodesic dome (1983.0019).
Watson Davis: 19 audiotape cassettes of the "Adventure in Science" radio program, 1955-56 (1986.3137).
Sidney Dickstein: 5 man's neckties, 1968-74; a 3-piece Pierre Cardin suit, 1975; and a girl's Gunne Sax dress, 1976 (1989.0061).
Louis DiLauro: 16 billion-units of Kangra, 13th-14th century (1988.0274).
The Walt Disney Company (through Roy E. Disney and Michael O. Eisner):
6 pencil drawings and 5 animation cells for "Steamboat Willie,” the first Mickey Mouse cartoon, 1928 (1988.0434).
District of Columbia Government, Department of Corrections: 3 signs, a poster, mirror, key with tag, and a denim jacket from the old D.C. jail (1982.0496).
Helen V. Dolan: photograph of Mrs. Grover Cleveland, 1886 (1989.0454).
Dole for President Committee, Inc.: 2 videotape cassettes, a letter, pamphlet, leaflet, form, decal, and a brochure (1989.0087).
Robert F. Dow, M.D.: 2 Lepel diathermy machines, a Siemens diathermy Machine, basal metabolism tester, vibrator, Fischer quartz ultraviolet unit, Suction pressure unit, and a plexiglass back brace (1984.0605).
Prancis D. Doyle: Crosley "Icy Ball" absorption refrigerating unit,

<<<Page: 362>>>

ca. 1925 (1988.0609),.
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, External Affairs Department (through Richard J. Woodward): "Kelvar”"™ helmet (1988.0191); 3 artificial arteries, 2 packages of veins, 2 packages of sutures, 2 soft tissue patches, and 2 surgical membrane patches (1988.0645); ballistic-resistant vest in a white dress shirt style (1988.3041); Fibers Department (through Cassandra L. Horner): "Second Chance" bullet proof vest, set of 4 rope segments, set of 3 pairs of "Armordillos" gloves, set of 3 *"Nomex/Kevlar® honeycomb squares, and a set of 2 "Kelvar™ bobbins (1989.3026).
Pete Du Pont for President: 2 videotape cassettes and a set of 9 bumper stickers (1989.0088).
Arthur D. Dubin: 31 folders of papers relating to George M. Pullman and the Production of the Pullman Palace Car (1986.3024).
Prof. Shirley Surrette Duffy: "The Checkbook Balancer" adding machine (293950573):
Mike Dukakis for President: videotape cassette, press kit, bumper sticker, and a button (1989.0132).
George W. Earle, Jr.: Autographic Register counter billing machine and a business address rubber stamp used with the machine, ca. 1904 (1988.0348).
Judge Robert J. Eby: button, "Eby" judicial campaign, 1981 (1989.0359).
Nanci K. Edwards: Dennison paper fastener container (1989.0426).
Edwin Ellett Tile Company (through Edwin E. Ellett and Grace F. Febrey): 126 decorative ceramic tiles (1989.0006).
Luis Tomas Estrada: poster of tough-looking Uncle Sam figure captioned "Sambo" (1988.0646).
Elizabeth M. Everall: blue Greek-style handbag, 1968-72 (1988.0691).
Max Factor (through Allen G. Kurtzman and Kim Rahilly): 19 cosmetic products of the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s (1989.0120).
Mary N. Farha in memory of Lewis N., Nabeha B., and Nemetallah Ferris Farha: framed document, "Gibran's Message to Young Americans of Syrian Origin, * 1926: (2988 ..061'9))..
Faye Klapp Feniger and Henry Ewing Feniger: gray wool automobile blanket, 1900-20 (1988.0781).
Harriett Ferreira (through Helen D. Renteria): blue and white double-woven coverlet, 19th century (1988.0359).
Charles W. Fertig: 26 folders of manuscript records relating to the development of direct plate laser imager technology for newspaper printing (1988.3130).
Sandra M. Field: decorated egg inscribed "ES, 1818" (1989.0219).
Aline File: gold and pearl bracelet, 1860-80 (1989.0165).
Leo Finegold: bumper sticker, "“Reagan-Bush Is NOT A Christmas Tree’ (1988.0640).
Avram Finkelstein: 11 posters, 4 flyers, 2 T-shirts, a button, and a bumper Sticker, all concerned with the AIDS pandemic (1988.0537).
Finley: 2 sleeves, a collar, and a border of whitework embroidery, 19th century (1988.0330).
Flexi-Therm, Inc. (through Seymour Katz): 4 thermoflex detectors (1986.3094); (through Seymour Katz and Hans S. Stern): 14 sets of graphics and pieces of thermographic equipment used to diagnose illness by the body's heat patterns (1985.3025).
Alexander A. Fondak, M.D.: Silver chalice and case, embroidered wrap, 1886 program album, piece of sheet music, and a ribbon, all owned by the

<<<Page: 363>>>

Grover Cleveland family (1989.0466).
Donald W. Foote: man's barbeque apron, 1950s (1988.3159),
Mrs. Jane Jeffcoat Foote: woman's letter sweater (1988.0601).
Shelly Jayne Foote: 2 woman's hair ornaments, a leather handbag, pair of platform shoes, dress, trousers, and a blouse, 1967-75 (1989.0161); in memory of Elizabeth Foote: 2 needle books, 1909 and 1920s (1989.0337).
LaVerne Forbush (through Helen Mary Overstreet): 5 engraved prints and a photomechanical intaglio print (1989.0096).
Delsie D. Foreman in memory of George W. Foreman: 24 audiotape cassettes of software for a Heathkit computer (1989.3073).
C. Leslie Forsyth: 5 brass Masonic chapter "pennies*® and 2 bronze commemorative medals (1988.0778).
John M. Fowler: bracelet charm shaped like highway route sign labeled "US 31, Kentucky" (1989.0439).
James Frank: untitled collotype print of a tree by Mr. Frank (1988.0615).
Dr. Ulrich A. Frank: RCA portable radar and a Thermistor thermometer (1988.0741).
Freeda Vitamins, Inc. (through Philip Zimmerman, Ph.D. and Sylvia Zimmerman): 14 varieties of Freeda vitamins and an advertising calendar for 1983 (1983.0165).
David A. Freeman: lithograph, Manhatten Backdrop, made by Mark Freeman, LIZOs. (1989.0191).
Henry B. Fried: 3 electic watch movements and an electric digital watch (1987 .02'5'6:) .
Emanuel Fritz (through Barbara E. Fritz): Dennison's container for paper fasteners (1988.0042).
M. B. and Ruth Purman: brooch and bracelet set of gold with sapphires, brooch and bracelet set of gold with aquamarines and rubies, 2 brooches made with opals and diamonds, and a ring of gold with sapphires and diamonds (1988.0476).
Edwin Gabler: 2 fountain pens, one by Parker and the other by Esterbrook (1987.0407).
Adam Gallan: Fairbanks "Tu-Ba-Phone" banjo, Vega Company tenor banjo, unmarked banjo with case, "Arthur Godfrey" ukelele, Lakeside guitar with case, and a child's fibreboard violin with bow (1987.0055).
La Garita Del Centinela, S.A. (through Oscar F. Kolombatovich): fencing mask and a plastron (1989.0125).
Laurence M. Gartel: print of a computer graphic, Energy Men, by Mr. Gartel, 1988 (1989.0199).
General Electric Company, Corporate Research and Development (through George Wise): set of 36 germanium transistors, a germanium crystal, and a transistor, 1952-56 (1984.0150).
General Stencils, Inc. (through David Braun): 17 stencil punch sets,
9 brass and paper stencils, 2 planishing irons, and a stencil punch carousel, 1925-85 (1987.0636).
Gephardt for President: press kit and a letter requesting contributions (21989 50135,)..
Althea Gibson: 2 Wimbledon Ladies' Singles Championship trophies, 1957-58; 3 Ladies' Doubles Championship loving cups, 1956-58; and a tennis * outfit and racket used by Ms. Gibson at Wimbledon in 1957 (1988.0260).
Sara Gilbert: Shrimptons' Eclipse crochet hook with handle cover, patented an? 9 T2 "(Cl988:/0:703\)'.
Joan E. Gittens: "Bush/Quayle '88" button (1988.0833).
Elizabeth W. Glascoch: 2 curtain sections of machine-made net with machine

<<<Page: 364>>>

embroidery, early 20th century (1989.0275); 2 pairs of pleated silk clip-on lamp shades, ca. 1900 (1989.0430).
Nancy Jan Gleason: elephant and donkey pull toys made for the Republican and Democratic National Conventions, 1988 (1988.0714).
David and Harriet M. Gold: 8 radio transcription discs by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Savings Bonds Division, 1930-50 (1988.0061).
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company (through Michael W. Cook): section of rubber tire from a 35-ton earthmover truck (1988.3054).
Robert W. Gorman: pair of ice skates worn by Gordie How, ca. 1978 (1988.0806).
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Gosney: Bown & Tetley rifle with etched scrollwork and scenes on the stock (1987.0671).
Mrs. Janet L. Gray: 2-piece devil's Halloween costume and an "Official Charlie McCarthy" hat (1989.0417).
Great American Salvage Company (through D. A. Kasle): 8 marble balusters, 7 glazed terra cotta wall tiles, 2 sections of copper cornice, bronze radiator heater grille, wooden stairway handrail, and a wooden doorway pediment (1988.3039).
Joel Grey: tailcoat, pants, shirt, pair of shoes, socks, and a box filled with make-up, all used by Mr. Grey in his stage and movie role of the M.C. in Cabaret and a playbill and program from the 1977 tour of Cabaret (1989.0374).
Adelaide Rendleman Grieve: peach silk teddy and an embroidered handbag purchased by Mrs. Grieve in Paris in 1928 (1988.0600).
Margaret Grimes in honor of Mavis Warner Van Peenen: 13 articles of woman's clothing and accessories including a cape, dress cap, blouse, teddy, hoop, bustle, 2 necklaces, a pair of earrings in their original box, lapel watch, and a pair of brooches, late 19th through mid-20th century (1989.0055).
Sondra Grupen: U.S. Navy identification tag for Registered Nurse Nora B. Limberg dated September 15, 1917 (1989.0094).
Donald M. Gruse: 2 caps of the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (1988.0297).
Dona Guimaraes: 57 pieces of child's and adult's clothing, cosmetics, woman's jewelry, personal care products for traveling, and miscellaneous accessories, 1880-1980 (1988.0280); photograph of a woman in a bathing suit, 1922-32 (1988.0469).
C. D. Gull: box of carbon paper, 1920s (1988.0623).
Cloyd Dake Gull: U.S.-made pistol with a patent date of April 5, 1887 (1989.0258).
Haig for President, Inc.: 6 buttons, 4 bumper stickers, a window sticker, brochure, and an information packet (1989.0101).
Milton Halberstadt: 23 tear sheets, 6 proof sheets, 5 photographs,
4 brochures, a dye transfer print, and a poster, all used in developing advertisements (1988.0156); 3 billboard advertisements in 34 pieces, 26 tear sheets, 10 type "R" prints, 7 posters, 7 proof sheets, a brochure, and a photograph (1988.0157); 9 color transparencies (1988.3024); 27 color transparencies (1988.3025). 47 color transparencies (1988.3026).
John C. Hambrick on behalf of the Hambrick Family: broadside, "Negroes for Sale," 1841 (1989.0020).
Hanes Corporation, Hanes Hosiery Division (through Gordon Hanes):
3 circular knitting machines, 1910-40 (320687).

<<<Page: 365>>>

George H. and Nancy Noble Harder: Ford Country Squire station wagon, 1955 (1989.0211).
Robert S. Harding: "Ronald McDonald" digital wrist watch, 1984 (1987.0932).
Jean D. and Samuel E. Harris, Jr.: infant's coat and cap, 1960 (1989.0140).
Karyn Jean Harris: woman's tie-dyed dress, notebook about tie-dying, and a poncho-style cape, 1970-71 (1988.0670).
Michael R. Harris: phonograph record of hockey tips from Garry Unger and Barclay Plager (1988.0370).
John E. Hasse: Fender Rhodes portable electric piano and 3 owner's manuals, ca. 1972 (1988.0047).
William F. Haworth: Johnson light machine gun manufactured by the Cranston Arms Company of Providence, Rhode Island, 1941 (1989.0440).
Health Mart, Inc. (through Bruce Kneeland): 19 pain relievers, cold medicines, vitamins, food supplements, and personal care items (1988.0687). é
Raymond J. Hebert: 48 ancient Greek fractional coins of the 4th-5th century B.C. (1988.0458); 5 quartz clocks and wristwatches (1988.0810).
William H. Helfand: 6 bottles, 2 belladonna plasters, a show globe, anda wooden advertising token (1983.0749); 2 white ceramic ointment pots and a Lydia Pinkham advertising thread case, all ca. 1895 (1985.0618); 224 pieces of medically related ephemera (1987.3043).
Edward L. Heller: book of logarithmic and trigonometric tables by Kaj L. Nielsen, 1965 (1984.3078).
Edgar H. Hemmer: Gloria Light Company Oxo-Gas hollow-wire system gas burner and storage tank, ca. 1920 (1989.0549).
Stephen M. Henderson: envelope with black border used by Jacqueline Kennedy after President Kennedy's death in 1963 (1989.,0360).
Joseph H. Hennage: Hoffmann Type & Engraving Company top-lever hand press, E. & W. Ullmer Albion hand press of 1859, and a #2 Lowe proof press (1988.0650).
Lloyd E. Herman: man's Pierre Cardin jumpsuit, 1960s, and a tie-dyed shirt, 1964-65 (1988.0812); man's reversible patchwork necktie and cummerbund, 1980s (1989.0039).
Harry Hickox: 9 toys and promotional objects, 3 hand puppets, a marionette, and a television prop train, all related to the "Jump-Jump of Holiday House" radio and television shows, 1948-54 (1988.0519); 8 phonograph records and 6 film reels of "Jump Jump of Holiday House" (1988.0653).
Dorothy and Paul Hieronymus: Prospectus by William Douglass, inventor of an automatic grain binder system (1988.3125).
Deborah D. Hilke: 8-piece Commodore 64 personal computer system and 4 users guides and manuals (1989.0544).
Robert W. Hoelscher: machine gun made by Canadian Arsenals Limited of Kitchener, Ontario, 1954 (1987.0385).
Christine Hoepfner and Jeannie M. Wayne: American Automobile Association Triptik road map showing route from San Diego, California to Washington, D.C. (1988.0626).
Adrienne Hoffman: oversized porcelain cup and saucer decorated in the "Quail" pattern, 19th century (1987.0811).
David and Iris Hoffman: 932 postcards of African-American images, 1900-33 (2987.3:226):.
Carolyn N. and Donald Hoke: 5 typewriter ribbon tins (1989.0179).
Helen E. Holley: U.S. Army uniform skirt, shirt, hat, and raincoat (1989.0152).
Maj. Gen. Jeanne M. Holm, USAF (Ret.): woman's U.S. Air FPorce formal

<<<Page: 366>>>

uniform sleeve insignia, rank of Colonel (1989.0128).
Hoover Group Inc., Ball and Roller Division (through Kenneth M. Goodman): set of 8 balls of different materials and a "Balls" poster (1987.3109).
Grace Murray Hopper: Navy arm patch and a Cruft Laboratory badge worn by Ms. Hopper during WW II (1989.0093).
Murray and Roslyn H. Horowitz: gold and porcelain dental partial (1988.0734).
Lina V. Howe: magnet, placecard, and a lapel pin, all with the Democratic Party's donkey motif, 1988 (1988.0557).
Donald A. Humble: fused mass of Spanish coins salvaged from the USS Maine sunk in Havanna Harbor, Cuba in 1898 (1988.0791).
Adm. Raymond P. Hunter: Seth Thomas ship's bell clock (1986.0859).
Evelyn M. Hurlburt: refractor telescope with tripod and an auxiliary telescope (1988.0636).
Dr. Harry D. and Velma R. Huskey: main unit, magnetic tape drive, typewriter, set of program tapes, set of paper tape cassettes, anda reel of paper tape, all part of the Bendix G-15 digital electronic computer invented by Dr. Huskey, 1955-60 (1988.0435); 77 pieces of documentation for the Bendix G-15 computer (1988.3106).
Thomas Imgram in memory of Jeanne Virby Imgram: Emerson "Snow White" radio, ca. 1937 (988.0369).
Peter Indorf: 2 medals commemorating the 350th anniversary of the founding of New Haven, Connecticut, 1638-1988 (1988.0779).
International Business Machines Corporation (through Paul J. Friedl): SCAMP personal computer with power supply (1988.0681); 8 notebooks, 2 folders, a booklet, and a set of audiotape cassettes documenting the SCAMP personal computer (1988.3146); (through D. E. Knight): 9 components of an IBM 702 computer system (1987.0747).
Izod Youthwear (through Mitchell Porigow): boy's white knit polo shirt marked "Izod Lacoste" with a blue alligator applique on the front, 1988 (1988.0392); boy's Izod Lacoste shirt, 1988 (1988.3109).
Tim James: King trumpet made for and played by Harry James (1988.0057).
The Bank of Japan, Cash Department (through Mitsuo Fujimoto): 4 500-yen coins commemorating the opening of the Seikan Tunnel and the Seto Bridge, 1988 (1988.0770).
A. G. Jennings & Sons: 125 pieces of silk lace manufactured by A. G. Jennings & Sons, 1880s (1987.0414).
Susan R. and William F. Jensen: miniature 42-star U.S. Flag (1989.0312).
Joey Jobes: wooden duck decoy made and signed by Mr. Jobes, 1988 (1988.0802).
Johns Hopkins University, Department of Physics (through Dean George Owen): ruling engine for optical gratings built by Prof. Henry A. Rowland, ca. 1880 (304122).
Frederick H. Johnson, Jr.: Estey 2 manual and pedal reed organ including bench, blower, and tubing (1989.0190).
Richard A. and Virginia L. Johnson: chromatic harmonica made by Kooch of Germany, 1900-25 (1987.0434).
William A. Jones: 2 photographs of school children in Meridian, MisSisSsippi (1989.0027).
K. Kadokura: Japanese abacus (1989.0515).
Satoru Kakitsubo: 5 bronze Japanese art medals designed by Mr. Kakitsubo (1985.0718):.
Sylvan J. Kamm: Babe Rainbow lithographed print on tin by Peter Blake, 1968 (1989.0455).

<<<Page: 367>>>

Alvin R. and Marjorie Sered Kantor: 41 U.S. postal marking devices, 10 boxes of type, and a stamp pad (1987.0905); 45 postal marking devices and postal badges (1988.0088); post office screen line unit with base, ca. 1900 (1988.0658).
Lillian S. Kaplan: 36 phonograph records (1988.0824).
E. C. Karnavas: 5-station germanium point contact assembly (1988.0473).
Celine Karraker: 10 diaries kept by Leo H. Baekeland from 1907 to 1910 (1984.3024); 10 diaries kept by Leo H. Baekeland from 1916 to 1920 (1988.3001); 10 diaries kept by Leo H. Baekeland from 1920 to 1925 (1988.3002); 10 diaries kept by Leo H. Baekeland from 1910 to 1916 (1988.3017); 19 boxes of papers kept by Leo H. Baekeland (1988.3065).
Jack Kemp for President: 8 buttons, 4 bumper stickers, 3 videotape cassettes, a strip of stickers, and an information leaflet (1989.0130).
Deborah L. Kempf: 2 school memory books, Girl Scout mess kit and sash, "woodstock" poster and headband, Beatles badge, 8-track tape, and trading card set, Jefferson Airplane poster, and a package of daisy decals (1987.0717).
Dr. Bernard V. Kessler: Hastings automobile radio, ca. 1953 (1987.0464).
Rose E. and Prof. Seymour R. Kesten: Clavioline electronic musical instrument made in Paris (1987.0122).
Keuffel & Esser Company (through Marsh W. Bull): 2 dividing engines, a set of slide rules, pantograph, planimeter, compass, and a set of dividers (306012).
Seymour Kevelson: Wildman circular rib knitting machine with March & Crowford stop mechanism, ca. 1905 (1989.0074).
Claudia Brush Kidwell: pair of white plastic earrings, pair of ceramic earrings, and fake pearl necklace, all 1950s, and a girl's clear plastic umbrella, 1981-83 (1989.0043).
Cody C. Kirkwood in memory of Helen Kirkwood and Arthur S. Knight: album of colorgraph prints with historic notes and instructions (1988.0580).
Margaret B. Klapthor: envelope of documents from the "Just Say No” anti-drug campaign (1989.0100).
M. B. Klein, Inc. (through Stanley F. Dobrzycki): set of 29 N-scale model trucks and automobiles and a set of 14 N-scale model pedestrians (1988.3104).
Ben Kleinerman: 2 Transitape sound recorders, a Cinesone film adapter, and a reel of l6mm film (1987.0520).
Carole R. and David C. Kline: 2 fragments of reproduction ingrain carpeting with pre-Civil War designs (1989.0280).
Claudine K. Klose: 4 plastic toys including a bathroom set, sewing machine, rocking chair, and a vacuum cleaner, ca. 1946 (1988.0631).
Marion Koehler: 19 pharmaceutical samples, 1983 (1984.0389).
The Bank of Korea, New York Representative Office (through Stella L. M. Cerruti): 6-piece uncirculated coin set of the Republic of Korea, 1988 (1988.0775).
Carol L. Kregloh: 2 infant's shirts, 1986 (1989.0051).
Kroloff Marshall & Associates (through Janette H. Brown): 3 transcripts,
3 pamphlets, 3 tickets, 2 programs, 2 brochures, a button, anda T-shirt, all from the presidential and vice-presidential debates, 1988 (1988.0704).
Barbara E. Kuhns: combination pencil and paperclip made by Okaya of Japan (1986.0791).
Kyocera Corporation (through Dr. Y. Hamano and M. Miyazaki): 4 ceramic turbo-charger rotors (1988.0171).

<<<Page: 368>>>

Labor Institute of Public Affairs (through Larry Kirkman): 4 videotape cassettes, 3 newsletters, 2 balloons, 2 bumper stickers, 2 lapel pins, 2 buttons, and a brochure, all from the "Union YES" campaign, 1988 (1988.0826).
Kathryn H. Lance: woman's beaded evening dress, 1926-27 (1989.0198).
Lance Woodcraft Products (through John E. Foster): rosewood judge's gavel, 1987 (1988.0178).
Harriet Augusta Tusler Langer in memory of Harriet Conners Tusler: bandanna commemorating the U.S. Centennial, 1876 (1988.0666).
League of Women Voters (through Nancy W. Neuman): 13 documents and a banner from the 1980 presidential debates and 15 documents and a T-shirt from the 1984 presidential debates (1988.0303).
James K. Leavitt: information packet on the political views of Pat Robertson (1988.0745).
J. A. Lehans: set of 3 type-A transistors, ca. 1949 (1988.0811).
Lehigh University, Fritz Engineering Laboratory (through Dr. Roger G. Slutter): aluminum water pipe, laminated timber, structural steel beam, steel wire rope, and a welded steel bar, all compressed or tension-tested (1988.3036).
P. Leiner Nutritional Products, Inc. (through Gale K. Bensussen): 19 vitamin and mineral products, a T-Shirt, and an advertising display (1983.0083).
Lenox, Incorporated (through Stephen F. Lichtenstein): 7 plates, 6 bowls, 2 divided serving dishes, cup with saucer, cup, creamer, and a sugar bowl with lid, all made of melamine plastic about 1960 (1988.0696).
Maxine M. Leon: spool box shaped like a school desk with "inkwell hole” thimble-holder, 20th century (1989.0481).
Bernard R. Levine: 12 table knives, and 2 forks, 19th century (1988.0763); nickel-silver fork marked for use by the U.S. Army's Medical Department, 1870-1910 (1988.0764).
Alan R. Levinstone, M.D.: 2 Univac 1105 core planes, ca. 1960 (1988.0804).
Alan and Elaine Levitt: 189 advertising materials used by Mr. and Mrs. Levitt at Sherman Pharmacy in Sherman, New York (1988.3090).
Hope Anthony Levy: 5 needlework accessory containers and a Berlin embroidery pattern, all 19th century (1988.0203).
Jay A. Lewis: Union Porcelain Works cream pitcher and covered sugar bowl used as salesman's samples (1989.0104).
Ingrid E. Liedman: sash with 20 buttons and 4 stickers, "Women Against Military Madness” (1988.0641).
Eli Lilly and Company (through William F. Pillow, Jr.): 28 pharmaceutical products (1982.0153); Archives (through Anita Martin): 11 drugs, 6 syringes, 2 test kits, 2 needles, a sterilizing flask, and an insulin demonstration kit (1982.0498).
Jesse Limoli: silver Canadian medal honoring Elvis Presley (1989.0035).
Susan B. Lisk: woman's wedding dress with petticoat and drawers and a photograph of the bride, Mary Susan Stubblefield Carpenter, married on May 12, 1896 (1988.0725).
Marguerite C. Little: diploma awarded to James Henry Herndon, M.D. in 1848 and a medicine chest used by Dr. Herndon (1989.0204).
Ralph Lockwood: triple-model horn made by Helmut Pinke of West Germany, 1977 (1986.0707). -
Reuben O. Logan: practice sorting case used by Martin Musolf during his career with the U.S. Post Office, 1920-61 (1988.0053).
Lonestar Cement Company (through Perry R. Keeton and John H. Delong):

<<<Page: 369>>>

6 cement briquette molds and a Tinius Olsen cement-testing machine (1988.3033).
William M. Lubar: pair of safety goggles, 1936-40 (1989.0319).
Nunzio A. Luce: 22 pieces of electronic watch material, 1970-79 (1987.0359).
Wm. F. Ludwig, Jr.: pair of snakewood drumsticks (1988.0150).
Lufkin Industries, Inc. (through Joseph P. Byrd III): Lufkin Mark II pumping unit, Grasshopper (1983.0086).
Capt. Joseph F. Madeo, Jr.: 3 Shraeder diving pumps, 2 Morse jigger diving pumps, 2 telephones, a sea anchor oiler, diving transceiver, K.G. cutting torch, K.G. heating tanks, diving ladder, blasting machine, beach gear blockset, fairlead, and a self-contained diving apparatus (1979.0521).
Christine M. and Dr. Christopher Magee: 3 dresses, a tunic, skirt, anda blouse worn by Mrs. Magee, 1969-72 (1988.0549).
Rube Mandel: 5 fonts of iron printing type (1989.0011).
Marklin, Inc. (through Frederick E. Gates): Z-scale model train equipment including a steam locomotive, 2 gondola cars, box car, tank car, anda caboose (1988.3153).
Markson Science, Inc. (through K. E. Stine): 2 packets of Markson "Cracker" ampule fracture and safety collars, patented in 1981 (1982.0453).
Julius H. "Groucho" Marx (through Arlene M. Breitbart): 98 letters and 5 sets of correspondence, 31 play and movie scripts, 17 scrapbooks, 1l folders of sheet music, 9 folders and a box of miscellaneous articles and papers, and 6 folders of photographs (1988.3083).
Albert S. Matlack: 2 slide rules (1989.0032).
Helen S. Mattison in memory of Dr. Richard V. Mattison and Royal Mattison, Jr.: bronze 6-pounder muzzel-loading Spanish cannon tube used in Colonial America, made in 1631 (1988.0815).
Edith P. Mayo: 16 buttons, 16 leaflets, 4 T-shirts, 3 brochures, 3 bumper Stickers, an audiotape cassette, banner, card, handout, newspaper, record jacket, and a poster (1988.0708); letter, brochure and envelope from the League of Women Voters in reference to the 1988 Presidential debates (1988.3162).
Sue P. McCann: German pistol (1988.0420).
Mack R. McClure: railroad transit made by Kolesch and Company of New York (1989.0409).
Margaret S. McComb: 3 crocheted pot holders made by Mrs. McComb's mother, ca. 1900 (1988.0503).
Wayne E. McGovern: 2 silver coins of the Samanids of Persia, A.D. 975-995 (1988.0772).
Mary McKelvey: 16 early 20th-century paper clips (1987.0491).
Ida E. McKeown: Crescent No. 7 boy's bicycle, ca. 1895 (1988.0813).
Medtronics, Inc., Neuro Division (through Linda Frederickson): transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation device and an Itrel implantable neurological pulse generator (1985.3026).
Charles Alan Melton: coin commemorating the founding of The People's Party at a convention held May 19-20, 1891 in Cincinnati, Ohio (1988.0678).
Steven Memoli: sextant made by H. Hughes & Son Ltd. of London, ca. 1944 (1989.0548).
A. S. Menke: Miner Ideal locomotive tender hand brake of cast steel, 1941 (7989). 0365).
Meriden-Stinehour Press (through Stephen Stinehour): book about printing in New York State by Douglas C. McMurtie, 1928 (1989.0464).
University of Michigan, School of Public Health, Department of

<<<Page: 370>>>

Biostatistics (through Prof. Felix Moore): instruction pamphlet for a Burroughs Moon-Hopkins billing machine (1989.3084).
Richard Mihalyi: 20 ducats and medals of Austria and Hungary, 13th to 20th centuries (1989.0263).
Ronald E. Miller: Rumely Ideal Separator threshing machine, ca. 1920 (1988.0371).
Mary S. and Victor L. Minter: package of surgical needles (1988.0603).
Margaret E. Moffatt: photograph of Generals Eisenhower and MacArthur emerging from a building (1989.0187).
Alfred F. and Loretta M. Moglie: Telechron electric wall clock, 1940s (1987.0473); Royal Quiet Deluxe portable manual typewriter (1987.0644).
Loretta M. Moglie: violin made by Albert F. Mogli, 1923 (1988.0749).
John R. Molenda, Ph.D., MPH: 28 educational articles, pamphlets, posters, greeting cards, photographs, signs, and charts about venereal disease (1985.3090).
Mary Jane McCaffree Monroe: camisole belonging to Mamie Eisenhower, plaque, and a cloth flag with buttons representing the 48 states (1988.0540).
William J. Moon: white molded glass globe for a Red Crown gasoline pump (1989.0289).
J. E. Morgan: Indian Model O motorcycle of 1918, piece of original tire, set of accessory tools, and a Virginia motorcycle license plate of 1920*° €1989..0330).
J. Tom Morgan, Jr.: 72 examples of commercial lithography, 1930-88 (1988.0662).
J. Tom Morgan Enterprises, Inc. (through J. Tom Morgan, Jr.): lithograph of an unfinished portrait of Franklin D. Roosevelt painted by Madame Shoumatoff (1988.0713).
Elting E., John H., and Robert S. Morison: 5 U.S. Internal Revenue stamps (1988.0055).
Morrison Molded Fiber Glass Company (through Clinton B. Smith): 2 Sections of fiberglass structural beams (1988.3038).
Julia M. Morton: 2 man's skirts designed and made by Ms. Morton, 1988 (1988.3093).
John Mosher: British mail bag made of woven plastic (1988.0397).
Motorola Museum of Electronics (through Sharon Darling): 3 cards, 2 badge holders, a CEO pin, and a "Quality" poster (1988.0583); 2 videotape cassettes, a pamphlet, fact sheet, and a memo (1988.3126); "Quality’” flag (1989.0008).
Constance E. Mottaz (through Harold A. Scott): "The Favorite” autoharp made by the Phonoharp Company of East Boston, Massachusetts, 20th century (1989.0516).
Mount Holyoke College, Department of Physics (through Edward P. Clancy): Societe Genevoise dividing engine (1987.0692).
Prancis M. Moyer: dip pen with mother-of-pearl handle (1987.0208).
Lt. Col. William B. Mozey: WARALARM mechanical alarm clock (1988.0212).
R. P. Multhauf: Hemmi bamboo slide rule (1989.0443); set of Schoenner drawing instruments distributed by Technical Supply Company (1989.3072).
Murjani International, Ltd. (through Richard H. Hosp): pair of woman's blue denim jeans designed by Gloria Vanderbilt, 1978 (1988.0415).
Mrs. John H. Murray: 2 plastic combs, 2 imitation pearl necklaces, an evening bag, wallet, plastic peacock brooch, and a man's wrist watch (1988.0702); 9 cookie cutters, 2 toy cookie cutters, 2 chocolate molds, an ice cream mold, baking pan, 24-piece toy kitchenware set,

<<<Page: 371>>>

and a 4-piece toy measuring spoon set (1988.0829); 2 chalices, 2 candlesticks, a plate, covered bowl, coffeepot, creamer, and a sugar bowl, all made of pewter (1989.0122); cast iron mold, 19th century (1989.3013).
Murrey & Sons Co., Inc. (through Pat Murrey): set of billiard balls (1987.3096).
MyStic Seaport Museum (through B. A. G. Fuller): copying lathe used to make wooden insulator pins for telephone poles, a blade, and 2 pins, ca. 1902 (1987.0603).
Dr. Alixa Naff: 11 domestic objects of Arab-American origin, early 20th century (1988.0451).
Patricia Floyd Nagel: dress, veil, shoes, stockings, teddy, brassiere, garters, invitation, and 3 photographs from the wedding of Anne O'Sullivan Ployd, September 19, 1925 (1989.0108).
Paul C. Nagel: top hat with box, sachet, and key belonging to Henry Adams, 19th century (1988.0760).
Dr. Perham C. Nahl: 316 U.S. first flight covers and postal cards (1987.0879).
Dr. Dorothea A. Nahm: Sony Betamax video cassette recorder (1988.0546).
National Association of Letter Carriers (through Vincent R. Sombrotto): 9 National Biennial Convention badges, 1970-86 (1988.0225).
The National Security Political Action Committee: 4 videotape cassettes and a "Political Action" kit (1988.0743).
National Woman's Christian Temperance Union (through Michael Carlucci Vitucci): 4 posters, 3 packets, and a catalog, all about substance abuse (1988.0834).
Emily Rose Nelson: tin-plated sheet iron steam cooker made by the Toledo Cooker Company of Toledo, Ohio, ca. 1907 (1989.0301).
Jeff Nelson: 2 posters and a T-shirt with the headline "Meese is a Pig” and text supporting the message (1988.0647).
The New England (through John A. Fibiger): Elizur Wright's arithmeter calculating rule patented in 1869 (1989.0366).
New Orleans Exposition: 429 examples of machine-made laces from St. Pierre Les Calais, France, ca. 1885 (1987.0416).
Government of New Zealand, Post Office Philatelic Bureau (through G. W. Warner): 19 mint stamps of New Zealand (1987.0098).
Kathryn C. Newcomb: 6 newspapers from the Presidential Inauguration of 1949 (1988.3161).
Elmer G. Nicks: Dr. Pepper vinyl advertising banner (1984.3003).
Nielson Media Research (through Laurence Frerk): 7 personal television viewing diaries, a Nielsen people meter, and a remote control (1988.0825).
Nike, Inc. (through Susan L. Sears): man's and woman's athletic clothing including 6 exercise outfits, 4 headbands, 3 pairs of socks, and 2 pairs of shoes (1988.3124).
Government of Niue, Niue Post Office, Philatelic Bureau: 15 mint stamps,
3 first day covers, and a souvenir sheet of Niue (1988.0479).
Janice Bradford Norcutt: woman's brown suede “chain link" belt, 1968 (1988.0669).
W. F. Norman Corporation (through Mark S. Quitno): stamped steel ceiling panel (1988.3044).
North American International Mint (through Robert M. Bianchi): silver medal commemorating 85 years of the teddy bear (1988.0523).
George A. Norton: National Radio Institute pin (1988.0295); 3 slide rules

<<<Page: 372>>>

with 2 instruction sheets and an adder with instructions (1988.0807); Young Engineers' Guide book, business reply card, and a manual for a Fordson tractor (1988.3110).
Numismatic and Antiquarian Service Corporation of America, R. M. Smythe & Company, Inc. (through Douglas B. Ball and John E. Herzog): 15 Colonial and Continental currency notes, 1748-78, and 2 Depression scrip plates, 1933 (1988.0790); 41 European lottery tickets of the late 19th to early 20th centuries, a Swedish bank note of 1711, Danish bank note of 1810, and a Chase National Bank specimen signature booklet of 1931 (1988.0816).
Harold J. Nussbaum: 8 silver and gold Masonic medals, 1970-77 (1988.0560).
Alden S. T. O'Brien: woman's gray silk bonnet, 1850-55 and a man's collapsible black silk top hat with its original box, 1880-1920 (1989.0142).
Odetics, Inc. (through J. Slutzky and L. W. Welsch): Odex I walking robot and controller, 1983 (1986.0452).
Olin Defense Systems Group (through Donald W. Griffin): cartridge and shell display board (1987.0392).
Omnis Surgical, Inc. (through Robert G. Munson): clear plastic human back model and a model of a human back with removable skin and spine section (1984.3054).
Oriental Medical Supplies (through Rahl L. Felt and Thomas A. Riihimaki): 28 pieces of acupuncture equipment, models, posters, and documents G1985:.3 0277)
Catherine B. Orne: 2 U.S. award medals and a Canadian award medal which honor scientific achievements, 1943-54 (1988.0712).
Laura Osborn: mechanical paradox invented by Francis C. Osborn (1980.0580).
Stephen E. Osman: pair of military blue wool convalescence pants, ca. 1918 (1988.0564).
Susan 0. Ostroff: 19 pieces of sheet music (1988.0538); 19 pieces of sheet music (1988.0693).
Mrs. Gladys C. Page: autograph album used by Carrie Miller of San Francisco, California, ca. 1902 (1989.0071).
Mary L. Partello: Dalton's "Little Giant" adding machine, 1920s (1988.3122).
Betty Lou and H. L. Payne: dumpy level made by Elliott Brothers of London, ca. 1875 (1989.0482).
Herbert L. Pelham: 26 Chinese, Bolivian, German, and U.S. coins and 2 U.S. tokens (1988.0613).
Pencil Makers Association, Inc. (through William L. MacMillian III):
22 plastic boxes showing the stages of wooden pencil manufacture (198:7... 3013)!
Dane A. Penland: T-shirt and information packet from the "International Shadow Project 1985" commemorating the 40th anniversary of the atomic bomb being dropped on Hiroshima, Japan (1989.0085).
Carol M. Perkins: 2 maps, a 1964 Emmy certificate, pith helmet, and safari jacket, all used by Marlin Perkins of the television series, "Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom" (1989.0182).
David Perlman (through Rev. Claude A. Heitman): working patent models for 6 timing devices, a Signaling apparatus, and a flash tube, all invented by Mr. Perlman between 1925-1940 (294915).
Pamela L. and Richard F. Peterson: T-shirt with Spiro Agnew as Mickey Mouse depicted on the front (1989.0361).
Thomas M. Pettus: battle flag of Nazi Germany (1987.0059).
Ann Lafferty Pfeiffer: woman's 2-piece wool suit, 1900-10, and a satin

<<<Page: 373>>>

brocade ballgown with beaded fringe by Worth, 1909-14 (1988.0682).
George A. Philbrick: vapor-liquid equilibrium computer, Universal K5-M linear operator, and a Polyphemus automatic control analyser with a set of 5 flow charts and a box of accessories (1988.0659).
Margot Phillips: woman's dress designed by Claire McCardell, 1948-50 (1988.0577).
Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (through Thomas Chris Gross): wall section of 20 glass blocks (1988.3056).
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (through Jan M. Beitzer and Harry A. Fischer): George Washington Bridge roadway expansion joint (1988.0107).
Linda M. Post: 2 pairs of white elbow-length kid leather gloves, 1890-1910 (1988.3088).
Harriet S. Potter: maroon velvet and silk dress and a photograph of Susan Kendrick wearing the dress on Christmas Day, 1884 (1989.0004).
Powell Corporation (through George Powell): Powell "Honeycomb Pool" skateboard, 1978 (1987.0737).
Pratt-Read Corporation (through Charles A. Ruhe): Denominator counter anda Knox calculating rule (1988.0795); 6 sets of ivory and plastic key pieces, scales, and gauges used to make piano keys, a scale board, parts cross-section board, key facing machine, and a set of piano wires (1988.3167); ivory-working tools including a bow drill, bow drill stock, hand plane, and a chain saw and employee clothing including a company basketball uniform top and shorts, 2 employee identification badges, and a first aid arm band (1989.0073); scalometer and a scale, both used to determine the moisture content of ivory (1989.0105); electric glue pot (1989.0107); 13 ivory desk accessories and a celluloid game counter (1989.0114); 2 ivory nit combs and an ivory toothpick (1989.0124).
Douglas S. Price: pill box, "Cleveland & Stevenson 1892" (1988.0652).
Jon Provost: pair of blue jeans, red gingham shirt, and black high-top sneakers worn by Mr. Provost while playing Timmy in the television series "Lassie," 1957-64, and a "Lassie" script (1989.0009).
Pucci International LTD. (through Ralph Pucci): female and male mannequins designed by Andree Putnam for Pucci International of New York City, 1988 (1988.3074).
Gordon Purdy: Boehm molded porcelain plate commemorating the U.S. Constitutional Bicentennial with "Birds and Flowers of the Thirteen Original States," 1987 (1988,0007).
Cynthia Williams Putnam and David Mike Putnam: 2 sweater vests, 2 medals, a trophy, program, scrapbook, knit shirt, and a T-shirt from Fred Williams' career as a marble champion, 1939-41 (1988.0643).
Jean B. Quinnette: 37 phonograph records and 4 album containers (1988.0375).
Quota International (through Gene Wheeler): Diebold electric "Cardineer" rotary card file, 1938-45 (1988.0324).
Andrew Rainer: packet of information from the 1988 Democratic National Convention held in Atlanta, Georgia (1988.3170).
Rhoda A. Ratner: button, "Librarians for Dukakis '88" (1989.0304).
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company (through M. Scott Smith): 2 sets of baseballs, a set of basketballs, set of photographs, and a football (198:7':3203'))<
Thomas Reardon: set of collotype progressive prints for a Rembrandt postcard (1989.0212).
Henrietta Rechtschaffner: mug, medal, vase, and a manicure kit, all

<<<Page: 374>>>

collected at labor conventions in 1968 and 1972 (1988.0679); 2 charms, a pin, and a brooch (1989.0364).
William G. Renwick (through Peter T. Gianas and Samuel P. Goddard, Jr.): 132 muskets, rifles, carbines, shotguns, pistols, revolvers, a hand cannon, and an air gun (245168).
The Rexall Group (through Armend Szmulewitz): 29 vitamin and health products (1983.0084).
J. E. Rhoads & Sons, Inc. (through John P. McGough and Kevin N. Wooters): 3 lengths of flat leather power transmission belting (1988.3123).
Cathy and Marie Rich: 3l-piece drum set built by Slingerland Radio Kings, 1938-40, and used by Buddy Rich from 1983 to 1987 (1988.0665).
Patricia H. Rich: diamond-patterned silver thimble interlined with steel, marked "Dorcas," early 20th century (1989.0336).
Alice G. Richie: tufted counterpane inscribed "Jinny M. Lusk 1814" (1989.0203).
Fritz Richmond: washtub bass made by Mr. Richmond in 1962 (1988.0563).
Elaine and Max Rimler: wall regulator used by the Camden & Amboy and the Pennsylvania Railroads, made by E. Howard & Company, ca. 1850 (1987.0448).
Howard B. Rindge: gold leaf coil applicator, ca. 1895 (1987.0602).
Edwin K. Robinson: 3 pieces of sheet music (1988.0759); sheet music for a Democratic Party campaign song (1989.0099); molded plastic razor box (1989.0444).
William M. Robinson: algebra textbook by Joseph Ray, 1848 (1986.3060).
Rochester Museum and Science Center (through Daniel M. Barber): French double-barrel shotgun (1987.0390).
Rock-A-Bye Baby, Inc. (through Marie M. Shields): Rock-A-Bye bear, Videotape cassette, sound box, intergrated circuit, and a photograph of the circuit (1989.0158).
Ralph Rohweder: Auto-Typist automatic typing reproduction system, late 1930 (1988.0430).
R. G. Rolfe: 2 liquid crystal display watch modules (1987.0454).
Bruce L. Roloson: 224 transistors, diodes, transitor parts, and electron tubes (1988.0451).
J. Alan Romich: patent certificate of freedom issued on November 9, 1846 for Elizabeth Carter of Leesburg, Virginia (1988.0594).
Mickey Rooney: 2 Academy Award nomination certificates, 1940 and 1943, and a theater program for A Midsummer Night's Dream (1988.0511).
Terrence R. Roos: 6 lens cleaning cloths, 2 sunglass lens color samples, and a pair of sunglasses (1988.0261).
J. William Rosenthal, M.D.: sterling silver monaural stethoscope (1989.0392); book, Pike's Scientific and Medical Instruments (1989.3046).
M. Howard Rowe (through Mary Wert): souvenir program of the 1919 World Series and 2 sports programs, 1974 and 1979 (1986.0830).
Emile J. Roy: 2 bookmarks and a button from the 1989 Presidential Inauguration (1989.0321).
Harry R. Rubenstein: phonograph record from the musical The Pajama Game (1988.3136).
Fath Davis Ruffins: 3 woman's dresses made of printed African fabrics, 1970-85 (1989.0175).
Capt. Carol A. B. Rupe, M.D.: 8-piece U.S. Air Force maternity uniform (1989.0080).
SPS Technologies, Aerospace Products Division (through Richard W. Sellars):

<<<Page: 375>>>

eye-bolt used to fasten tubes on missile launchers, 1987 (1987.0855).
Sue Ann Sadler: set of 8 aluminum tumblers anodized in 8 different colors, 1940s (1988.0627).
David Sarnoff Research Laboratory, Television Research Laboratory (through Jack S. Fuhrer): 3 experimental videodiscs (1989.0154).
Clara G. Schiffer: print, "Women at the Polls in New Jersey,” published in Harper's Weekly, November 13, 1880 (1989.0102).
James H. Schrum in memory of Robert E. Mitchell: 3 presidential inaugural editions of the The Evening Star, 1937 and 1941 (1989.3057).
Michael W. Schultz: flight cover with promotional folder from the first roundtrip transatlantic flight in May 1937 (1988.0060).
Lois R. Seidler: U.S. Public Health Service uniform and hat cover (1986.0935).
Phillip Seitz: 10 condoms, a condom request card, and a disposable tuberculosis tester (1988.0736).
Tom Selleck and Universal Pictures (through Kerry McCluggage): 2 baseball caps, a gold ring, and a Hawaiian print shirt, all worn by Tom Selleck on his television series "Magnum P. I." (1988.0409).
Anne M. Serio: "Ginny" doll with wardrobe, "I Love Lucy® paper doll set, and a "Judy Holliday’ paper doll book, all 1953-54 (1988.0531); Waring electric blender, 1966 (1988.3117).
David H. Shayt: K-D brand valve spring lifter for a 1934 Ford Model A automobile (1988.0827); section of Litco particle-board fork-lift pallet (1988.3085).
Frank J. Sheridan: U.S. Army officer's wool jacket and trousers made in Melbourne, Australia, 1942 (1988.0544).
Tess Sholom: scarf designed by Ms. Sholom for the 1985 Presidential Inauguration (1988.0624).
Mary Dickson Shryock: raised patchwork quilt top and a pink silk crepe crib cover with a matching pillow cover (1989.0268).
Shugart Associates (through J. S. Campbell): Shugart SA400 disk drive and 3 binders and a folder containing information about the company (1982 .3017:).
F. Marcus Shulze in memory of Loraine Nelson Shulze: floral-patterned wool carpet given as a wedding gift in September 1885 (1989.0269).
Milton L. Schurr: 14 photographs of New York World's Fair Hall of Health, 1939° \(1983',3166:)'.
Frederick W. Side: experimental radio tube designed and built by Mr. Side, 1923 (1987.0630).
Lena P. Simmons: “Sheep's Foot" combination hammer and prying tool (1988.0599).
Paul Simon for President Committee: schedule of fund raising events (1989. 0133:).
Caroline L. and Nelson C. Simonson: family Bible owned by farmer Stokely Sturgis of Kent County, Delaware, 18th century (1989.0296).
George Sinnott: 2 man's dress shirts, 1955 (1989.0195).
Edith H. Smith: "Kennedy '60" bracelet and a "Card-Carrying Member of the ACLU" button (1989.0131).
Lynn R. Smith: font of celluloid-faced wood type (1987.0685).
Myron R. Smith: 3 slide rules, 3 adding machines, a manual adder, and an adding machine teaching device (1989.0325); book, Applied Mechanical Arithmetic as Practiced on the Comptometer, 1920 (1989.3054).
Charles Smithgall: television lifeline transmission wire, ca. 1948 (1988.0146).
w ~I Oo

<<<Page: 376>>>

Smolian Sound Restoration Studios (through Steven Smolian): polyvinyl chloride phonograph record, 1950s (1988.0105).
Irene Snelling Smyth: 2 child's caps made in Denmark by Mrs. Smyth's mother, 1920s (1988.0358).
Snapper Power Equipment (through Anthony A. Malizia): "Snappin' Turtle*" lawnmower, 1949 (1988.0571).
Sony Corporation of America, Corporate Communications (through Jason Farrow): Sony "Watchman" portable television (1989.0194).
Sony Video Software Company (through John O'Donnell): 7 videotape cassettes comprising the series, "Vietnam, A Television History" (1987.3050).
Carol W. Sorensen: gasoline-powered laundry iron, ca. 1935 (1989.0210).
Gertrude Souther: 2 U.S. postal covers (1988.0054).
Barry Spann: collotype print, Cold Mountain, by Mr. Spann (1988.0517).
Penny Speckter: 2 cast iron miniature printing presses, ca. 1885; a sheet metal miniature printing press of the early 20th century; Zuccatto's "papyrograph" copying printer, ca. 1875; and a signed typometric portrait of Beatrice Warde (1988.0823).
Spectra-Physics, Construction and Agricultural Division (through Robert J. Makenas): laser surveying level, optical detector, and a power converter (1985.0417).
Harvey G. and Norman Stack: 6 Continental currency notes dated February 26, LUIT (L983 Ss 0773) «
Christopher K. and Rosemary Steele: 3 self-standing pyrometric cones patented by Richard E. Steele in 1973 (1986.0285).
Henry R. Stiffel: 38 parking meters, 2 parking fine receptacles, and a parking fee receptacle (1988.0814).
Lois Greene Stone: 7 playbills, 2 souvenir cups, a football program, opera Program, rodeo magazine, and a WW II war emergency identification card (1988.0672); American Indian doll, 1953 (1989.0170).
Edward G. Stowell: unused stamped envelope (1988.0382).
Nellie M. Streng in memory of Mary Scott Grigsby: ink pen with case, 1880s (1986.0860).
Raymond C. Stricker: 10 Eli Lilly pharmaceutical sales kits used by Mr. Stricker, late 1920s and 1930s (1989.0380).
James H. Stubblebine (through Marvin Weinstein): Seven Goal Sammy stoneware figure by Russel Aitken, 1934, and Poor Man's Punch Bowl designed by Viktor Schreckengost, 1931 (1988.0233).
Casey and Richard H. Stultz in memory of Alfred Edgar Stultz: Smith carbine, 1857 (1988.0634).
Gary K. Sturm: "World Time Card" travel alarm clock by Seiko, ca. 1989 (1989.0126).
Alfred Suarez, M.D.: folding nickel-plated binoculars in a black leather case (1988.0685),
Louise and Michael B. Suessmann: Mont Blanc Meisterstuech fountain pen (1987.0897).
M. J. Sullivan: "THINK" notepad with refill paper (1989.0046).
Donald H. Sultner (through Haldeman S. Wertz): German postage stamp and a Swiss postage stamp (1987.0600).
Summitville Tiles Inc. (through David W. Johnson): 3 ceramic plaques featuring Ronald Reagan, George Bush, and Jack Kemp (1989.0177). Therese A. Svat: 3 proof prints and a zinc plate used to make the etching
Rebirth by Ms. Svat, 1987 (1988.0821).
Walter Swan: postage due cover with precancelled stamps dated July 23, 1958
(1988.0381).

<<<Page: 377>>>

James McK. Symington: set of 5 graphical firing tables in a case (1988.0248)..
Tanaka Dental Products (through Bruce Swanson): "Big Teeth" dental anatomy kit (1989.0345).
Neil Taxy: 4 mint stamps of Israel (1988.0444).
Ernest H. Taylor: 49 fonts of foundry-style type matrices (1988.0235).
Comdr. Jay E. Taylor: dictating unit, transcription unit, headphones, telephone system, and set of plastic discs, all part of Thomas A. Edison's VoiceWriter dictating system (1989.0449).
Nancy Lane Terry: 3 fragments of resist-printed cotton fabric from China, 1988 (1989.0278).
Frances G. Thompson: silver-plated pitcher decorated in high relief, made by Simpson, Hall, Miller & Company of Wallingford, Connecticut, ca. 1880 (1989.0338).
Tinius Olsen Testing Machine Company, Inc. (through John C. Millane): cloth bag filled with lead shot and a shot-weighing scale, both for use with a cement-testing machine (1988.3018).
Adelle and Erwin Tomash: set of 14 drawings of the Scheutz difference engine made at the Dudley Observatory in Albany, New York (1988.0798).
Travel Industry Association of American (through F. O'Rourke): "Discover American" plaque, ca. 1965 (1988.0828).
Trow & Holden Company Incorporated (through Norman Akley): stonecutter's double-headed steel hammer, ca. 1987 (1987.0846).
Betty M. Tubbs: 5 summer khaki uniform items and 3 evening dress blue uniform items worn by Lt. Col. Randolph Coyle, USMC, 1937 (1988.0628).
Mildred E. Tucker: woman's silver ring set with a blue stone and white beads, 1900-30 (1988.0556).
Marie Tyler-McGraw and Howard M. Wachtel: 68 buttons, 9 posters, a postcard, and a pin (1988.0661); 4 political posters (1988.3140). United Nations Postal Administration: 614 stamps and 12 souvenir sheets of
the United Nations (1988.0436).
United Shoe Machinery Corporation (through Kevin Cochrane): 129 containers of photographic and documentary records of the United Shoe Machinery Corporation, 1899-1976 (1987.3124).
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency: German Luger revolver and a French D'Armes St. Etienne revolver (1987.0220); Prench Unique semi-automatic pistol made by D‘Armes Des Pyrenees Hendaye (1989.0457).
U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards: slated globe (1989.0188); Center for Building Technology, Structures Division (through Dr. Charles Culver): steel-reinforced mock-up of concrete column joint from the Soviet-built U.S. embassy in Moscow, 1987 (1988.3034); National Telecommunications and Information Administration (through Fred A. Hand): teletype keyboard with tape reader (1981.3037).
U.S. Department of Defense, Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Intelligence School: General Electric Datanet teletype machine with acoustic coupler (1981.3034); Department of the Air Force, Air Defense Tactical Air Command (through Lt. Col. Joseph H. Gerard): 20 components of the Semi-Automatic Ground Environment (SAGE) computer system, in operation from 1952 to 1983 (1983.0298); Rome Air Development Center, Griffiss Air Force Base: 12 components of a Control Data Corporation 160 computer (1977.0173); Headquarters, AFMPC/DPMASA (through Stanley M. Duda): Brazilian Taurus automatic pistol and a reproduction Spanish flintlock pistol (1987.0227);

<<<Page: 378>>>

Security Police Armory: Heckler & Koch presentation assault rifle made for the Saudi Arabian Forces (1987.0387); 3246 Test Wing: 3 Colt Industries submachine gun/rifles (1987.0228); Department of the Army, Center of Military History (through David C. Cole): flag bandanna honoring Gen. William Henry Harrison, "The Hero of Tippecanoe” (1988.0635); Consolidated Property Account: chest of Mannlicher-Carcamo ammunition (1987.0918); (through John D. Wakefield): Italian pistol, Austrian Steyr pistol, Beigian Fabrique Nationale pistol, German Walther pistol, German Heckler and Koch pistol, Colt pistol, Sig Maremont pistol, and a Smith and Wesson pistol (1987.0906); Frontier Army Museum (through Stephen J. Allie): 5 Stoner machine guns, 2 Colt submachine guns, a Stoner rifle, Stoner carbine, Armalite rifle, Harrington and Richardson rifle, linker/delinker, and a magazine loader (1987.0370); HW DA (DPFL-ALP): Argentine Army presentation pistol made by F. M. Browning (1987.0386); Letterkenny Army Depot: Beretta semi-automatic pistol (1988.0021); New Cumberland Army Depot (ONAG) (through John D. Wakefield): M12 holster and an ammunition pouch (1987.0475); Office of the Chief of Military History, Historical Services Division (through Col. Raymond C. Ball): 448 ENIAC computer components (308932); Patton Museum of Cavalry and Armor: Austrian Roth-Steyr pistol, German Dreyse pistol, anda Czechoslovakian pistol (1987.0391); experimental AR-15 rifle and carbine (1988.0017); prototype assault rifle, sniper's rifle, and an Italian assault rifle (1988.0040); 2 Springfield rifles, a Johnson rifle, British Enfield rifle, Swiss Army carbine, and a Czech rifle (1988.0118); Rock Island Arsenal (through John D. Wakefield): M9 Baretta pistol (1987.0516); U.S. Army Missle Command: 4 pieces of Material radiated by the MICOM Long-John laser and a wooden plaque (1985.0347); Department of the Navy, David Taylor Research Center, Ship Structures Division (through David P. Kihl): compression-tested steel I-beam of a ship deck component (1988.3035); U.S. Department of Defense, Headquarters DAFC-ALA: 2 Browning pistols, a Smith & Wesson revolver, and Taurus pistol set with magazine and cleaning brush (1985.0107); Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense:
-41 caliber Colt revolver with accessories (1988.0612); ceremonial sword decorated with floral rhinestones and a gold-plated sheath (1989.0348); double-barrel presentation shotgun engraved "Caspar Weinberger” on the stock (1989.0349); presentation long sword decorated with brass, bone, and rhinestones (1989.0350); Office of the Director of Administration and Management, OSD: 2 presentation submachine guns (1989.0347); OSD: presentation dagger in a brass sheath (1989.0351); brass presentation saber (1989.0352); wood and ivory replica of a gun used by Angolan Freedom Fighters (1989.0456). Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Dental Research (through Rinah J. Ham and Michael Roberts, D.D.S.): package of 5 stainless steel dental instruments (1988.0729).
Department of the Interior, Geological Survey, Branch of Global Seismology and Geomagnetism (through John D. Wood): 5 magnetometers, 4 earth inductors, 2 variometer sets, a galvanometer, dip circle, anda tilting dumpy level (1982.0671); National Park Service Clearinghouse (through Anthony M. Knapp): bronze Mexican War trophy cannon made in 1844 and surrendered at Vera Cruz on March 29, 1847 (1989.0206). Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, National Crime

<<<Page: 379>>>

Information Center: Model 28 ASR teletype terminal used since 1967 (1989.0433); Immigration and Naturalization and Service, U.S. Border Patrol: 5 Colt Border Patrol revolvers, 5 Colt New Service revolvers, and a Colt Police Postitive revolver (1989.0185).
Department of State, U.S. Consul of Prague, Austria-Hungary: 121 handmade bobbin laces made in Austria-Hungary, ca. 1903 (1987.0415). Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, James River Reserve Fleet (through Tom Robards): 69 objects from decommissioned ships which make up a WW II era Combat Information Center (1989.3060). Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Colt AR-15 rifle with scope attached (1986.0695); 2 Winchester rifles, 2 Remington rifles, a Weatherby rifle, Colt double-barreled shotgun, AMT pistol, Colt revolver, Fiala Arms pistol, Japanese Miroku shotgun, and a Belgian Fabrique Nationale pistol (1988.0001); Belgian pistol and a conversion kit (1988.0432); 2 Mossburg rifles, a Remington rifle, Winchester rifle, Ted Williams rifle, Springfield shotgun, and a Spanish Llama pistol (1988.0761); Dallas District Office: U.S.-made Hi Standard pistol, Baur pistol, Explorer II pistol, Springfield rifle, Explorer rifle, Winchester rifle, Italian Galesi-Brescia pistol, and a Spanish Zabala shotgun (1988.0587); Evidence Vault: Belgian Fabrique National D'armes DeGuerre rifle (1987.0389); Weatherby Vanguard rifle and a Sturm Ruger rifle (1987.0478); 6 Smith & Wesson revolvers, 2 Winchester rifles, 2 Ruger revolvers, 2 Colt revolvers, and a Noble shotgun (1987.0591); 2 Chinese rifles and a U.S. carbine (1988.0237); New Haven Post-of-Duty Vault: Weatherby rifle, Ruger semi-automatic rifle, and an Iver Johnson Cattleman's model revolver (1987.0440); Seattle District Office: 2 SWD Cobray machine pistols with silencers, an Underwood carbine, and a SWD M-ll pistol (1988.0530); Seized Property Section: 2 Rossi revolvers and an Interdynamic pistol (1986.0694); Western Regional Laboratory: 4 Winchester rifles, 2 Marlin rifles, a Mauser rifle, Sturm Ruger rifle and revolver, and a Smith & Wesson revolver (1987.0219); Bureau of Engraving and Printing (through Ira Polikoff): 2 collages of state seals printed on the Spider press in Cincinnati, Ohio on July 24, 1988 (1988.0561); U.S. Customs Service, Southeast Regional Commissioner: Sterling MK4 P submachine gun set with magazine (1985.0225); U.S. Mint: 81 U.S. and foreign coins and medals received before 1923 (1988.0063).
Legislative Branch, Library of Congress, Copyright Office, Information and Reference Division (through Joan A. Doherty): 7 T-shirt transfers, 3 T-shirts, 2 bowler's crying towels, 2 hand Puppets, and a "Peanuts" pennant (1988.0483); Exchange and Gift Division (through Judy C. McDermott): 21 tickets to various political functions and 13 plaques, 9 medals, 2 pins, a trophy, charm, button, card, pen, and a certificate awarded to Dr. Margaret Mead, a Weigl test kit, and a dress made for Dr. Mead for use in the field on Marcus Island, 1928-29 (1984.0106); transverse table alidade with leather case made by Keuffel & Esser Company of New York, ca. 1936 (1984.0343); 22 pieces or jewelry, 21 membership cards, 14 buttons, 9 patches, 8 badges, 2 academic stoles, a hunting license, felt letter, pamphlet, plaque, string tie, key chain, and a medal (1984.0374); album containing miscellaneous admission tickets, an ivory stamp inscribed “‘EKE" with an ink pad, and a steel punch inscribed "CHF" (1984.0415); 1,564 covers, 380 stamps, 16 stamped envelopes, 6

<<<Page: 380>>>

aerogrammes, 3 postcards, a pamphlet and souvenir with first day cancellations, Kodak mailing box cover, and an international reply coupon (1984.0531); set of 32 blank recording sheets for John W. Draper's self-recording barometer, 4 fountain pens, 2 quill pens, a mechanical pencil, leather pen holder, and a steel pen with holder (1984.0539); 2 religious medals, 2 Apostleship of Prayer pieces, a Catholic identification cross, cross with printed card, and an advertising medal (1984.0560); 77 awards and medals given to Dr. Margaret Mead, 32 stock certificates of U.S. corporations, 9 medals, 7 pieces of Confederate States of America currency, 6 pieces of French currency, 4 pieces of Brasilian currency, 2 pieces of 18th-century American currency, 2 pieces of 19th-century U.S. currency, 2 municipal bonds, an Austrian gold coin, WW I U.S. war savings certificate, anda 1971 U.S. Eisenhower dollar (1984.0614); 328 miscellaneous political campaign objects and memorabilia (1984.1081); naval shoulder patch from the USS Rushmore, WW II (1985.0292); medal with rosette and case for Exceptional Civilian Service awarded to Dorothy A. Troxel anda Prisoner of War band badge used at Andersonville Prison during the Civil War (1985.0786); set of drawing instruments by E. O. Richter & Co., a Gorn Knudsen pen, jeweler's screwdriver, and a group of 3 Eagle leads (1985.0909); jacquard-woven silk commemorative menu for a banquet given in honor of William H. Taft (1986.0275); eyeglass holder (1986.1018); 2 sets of Brazilian bank notes, 2 psychological apparatus, a set of squares, safety deposit box key, circuit board, and a printing plate, all used by George von Bekesy (1986.3180); cased Remington revolver (1988.0452).
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Goddard Space Flight Center: Monroe IQ calculator with instruction pamphlet (1988.0663); Abbe comparator, 1960s, and an Ainsworthy & Sons semi-micro balance with a set of weights (1988.0664); Jet Propulsion Laboratory (through F. W. Malinowski): 4 modules of the SDS-910 computer (1988.0674). Office of Personnel Management, Alexandria Distribution Center (through David P. Funsten): 2 fallout shelter medical kits and a Civil Defense Sanitation kit (1987.0521).
Panama Canal Commission (through G. E. McElroy): 2,593 official seals, 822 covers, 819 stamps, 379 postal cards, 257 meters, 235 postmark impressions, 184 trial impressions, 120 pieces of original art, 86 air letter sheets, 82 money orders, 56 penalty cards, 21 rubber stamps, 13 printing blocks, 10 dies, 6 booklet covers, 4 documents with specimens, 4 design changes, 4 ungummed sheets, 3 wooden handles, a rolling pin, and a sample electrotype validation plate (1987.0236). Postal Service, International Postal Affairs Department (through Irma Harrison): 171 stamps of Nicaragua, 120 stamps of Austria, and 27 stamps of South Africa (1987.0070); International Relations Branch (through Michael J. Regan): 8,769 stamps and souvenir sheets of the Universal Postal Union Nations (1987.0235); (through Irma Harrison): 1,999 stamps, 17 souvenir sheets, and 9 covers of Austria, the People's Republic of China, Mozambique, and South Africa (1987.0507); Philatelic and Retail Services Department, Stamps Division (through Don McDowell): 37 commemorative panels (1988.0068).
Unknown: 25 U.S. and foreign bank notes and 5 U.S. medals (1988.0166);
2 T-shirts with Reagan-Bush slogans, 1984 (1989.0097); 2 buttons with slogans favoring the Vietnam War (1989.0363).
Utah State Tax Commission (through Roger O. Tew: 6 tax stamps for illegal

<<<Page: 381>>>

drugs, 1988 (1988.0335).
Cal T. Vance: Odyssey electronic game (1989.0048).
Francois Van Hoof: modern impression in tin of the reverse of a Russian Empire 10-kopecks piece of 1871 (1988.0064); 2 modern impressions in tin of an 1863 Russian Empire 2-kopecks piece (1988.0782).
Varian Associates, Research Center (through Dr. John C. Helmer): photoelectron ESCA spectrometer, ca. 1970 (1989.0067).
Henry Velasco: milling machine end cutter (1988.3043).
VentuResearch (through Roger L. Hummel): 6 watches and a clock powered by water batteries (1988.0585).
Carol Ann and David J. Vetter, Jr.: 8 pieces of clothing, 7 toys, 7 books, 5 cloth bags, a room sign, award ribbon, placemat, pillow case, alcohol pad, baby formula, and a baby blanket, all used by David, the "Bubble Boy," 1971-84 (1986.0201).
Robert M. Vogel: portable watchmen's clock with 2 keys and a box of recording tapes, made by Detex Watchclock Corporation (1987.0216); VariTyper 360 typewriter for large engineering plans and drafts, fitted with 12 typing elements, 1960s (1987.0406); micrometer caliper made by J. T. Slocomb Company (1988.0406).
Von Fange Tool Company, Inc. (through Thomas Von Fange): beryllium-copper cabinetmaker's hammer (1987.0689).
Evelyn Wagman: Tucker-style "Spider" pattern porcelain cup, 1826-38 (1988.0234).
Janice Wajda: Motorola radio, 1948-49 (1988.0148).
James D. Walker, R.S.: wooden watchmaker-jeweler's bench, 1945 (1989.3042).
Susan N. Wallace: leather wallet for U.S. war bonds (1988.0771).
Robert M. Warfel: check writing machine made by the Todd Protectograph Company, ca. 1923 (303852).
Hilda S. Warner: 6 infant's shirts, a bib, cap, pair of child's drawers and a christening blanket (1988.0388).
Jack R. Warner: Hewlett-Packard 250 business computer system in a set of 6 components (1989.0023); 13 manuals, 5 pieces of duplicate hardware, and 3 hard disks which were used with a Hewlett-Packard 250 computer (1989.3009).
Carol L. and Robert D. Warrington: silk U.S. flag with 26 painted stars (1989.0408).
Washington Pain Center (through Dr. Lorenz Ng): "TENS for Pain Control" poster and a dental needle (1985.3045).
Harriet Wasserman: scrapbook, notebook, and a poster from the Falcon Trio comedy aerial act, 1912-31 (1985.0167).
C. Malcolm and Joan Pearson Watkins in memory of Lura Woodside Watkins: 5,069 stereo cards and 18 glass stereo views, 1850-1920s (1988.3071).
LaVerne Watkins: 3 sets of drawing instruments, a polar planimeter, anda Pelikan Graphos penholder set (1989.0305); 18 surveying instruments used in Arizona and New Mexico, 1880-1985 (1989.0403); Curta calculating machine and an Otis King calculating rule with 2 instruction papers (1989.3049); surveyor's graduated ring compass and an instrument case (1989.3064).
Robert Field Watkins III: leaflet, "National Stand Up For Dukakis Day Rally," dated October 24, 1988 (1988.0707).
Donald L. Watson: Model ASR-33 teletype computer terminal (1989.0575).
Lorraine Watson in memory of Charles C. Koontz: English pepper box revolver with case and accessories (1987.0496).
Louise B. Weis: black textured wool coat with fur trim, a photograph of

<<<Page: 382>>>

Mrs. Weis wearing the coat, and a matching hat, 1934-35 (1989.0150).
Mary-Lou Weisman: poster, "Menopausal Women Nostalgic for Choice” (1989.0373).
Charles E. and Vickie Weitzenhofer: 2 baseball buttons (1989.0030).
John E. Welch: spyglass made by Negretti & Zambra of London for the Signal Corps of the Confederate Army (1988.0739).
Philippa C. Weld in memory of Sumner Appleton Weld: 4 fragments from the Star Spangled Banner, 1814 (1988.0637).
Ellen B. Wells: 29 boxes of direct mail advertisments sent to Ms. Wells, 1976-1984 (1987.3120).
Wesleyan University, Department of Physics (through Robert B. Taylor): Stackpole & Brother transit, Adam Hilger spectroscope/spectrometer, ca. 1885, Lerebours dip needle, 1830s, and a Pike & Son solar Microscope (1989.0013).
Wheal-Grace Corporation (through Emil R. Salvini): 2 prints made using the "shadow-etch" method developed by Wheal-Grace Corporation of Lyndhurst, New Jersey (1988.0822); 3 progressive prints made using the "shadow-etch" method developed by Wheal-Grace Corporation of Lyndhurst, New Jersey (1989.0095).
John 8. White, Jr.: Prest-O-Weld oxyacetylene blowpipe and a Weldit Acetylene Company torch head (1989.0084).
Roger B. White: motor camper souvenir plate, ca. 1967 (1988.0808).
Stanley S. Whitham: magnetic wire recording of Japanese popular songs made by Sears, Roebuck & Company, ca. 1950 (1989.0007).
Helen H. Whitlock: folder of 6 photographs recording discovery of the
9Champlain astrolabe (316352).
Mrs. Lois W. Wickham: 2 maid's uniform aprons and hats and a berry basket (1986.0802). :
Frances F. Williams: hat made and worn by Ms. Williams at the 1988 Democratic National Convention in Atlanta (1988.0527).
Dr. Michael R. Williams: APF Mark V electronic calculator (1989.0047).
Polly F. Williams: U.S. Navy Midshipman's dress blue jacket and trousers, 1931, and a Lieutenant's undress blue uniform frock coat with trousers and evening dress coat, 1930-49 (1988.0472).
Dorothea M. Wisman: 2 packages of needles, a tape measure, spool of nylon thread, crocheted needle and thimble holder, and a package of Bucilla nylon yarn (1988.0718).
Anita Tuohy Wolver: 14 contact lenses, cases, sceral lenses, corneal lens, eye molds, and spectacles relating to work done by Keven M. Touhy in the development of contact lenses (1988.0336); 38 pieces of documentation relating to Keven M. Touhy's research in the development of contact lenses (1988.3082).
The Women's Project of CDI, Inc.: poster for the National Women's Conference to Prevent Nuclear War, 1984 (1989.0086).
L. A. Wood: 2-cylinder Maytag gasoline engine and a Maytag multi-motor oil quart can, 1950 (1989.0404).
Albert Arthur Woodward, Ph.D. (through William P. Kelly, Jr.): bracket clock with tortoiseshell case made by Thomas Tompion, ca. 1698 (1986.1019).
Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Department of Physics (through Ralph Heller and Thomas H. Keil): vernier caliper with case (1987.0916).
Helena E. Wright: 14 paper specimens (1989.0040).
Evelyn and Paul A. Wurtzel: photograph, call sheet, and a final script from the television series "M*A*S*H" (1988.0667).

<<<Page: 383>>>

Xerox Corporation, Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (through Linda Brandt): Xerox Alto and Star personal computers, 1970s (1989.0432).
Jay Dee and Joan Yearous: Star razor blade and a sample of Mentholatum (1984.0730).
Jane Griffin Yeingst and William H. Yeingst: set of jar wrenches, 1930s; mirro aluminum cookie and pastry press, 1950s; and a set of ironware dinner service, ca. 1951 (1988.3119); "Cootie"® game, ca. 1952, and a child's "Super Hero® costume, 1983 (1989.0064); McGraw Electric Company "Toastmaster® toaster, ca. 1936, and an envelope of decorated wax paper, 1930s (1989.3017).
Hizeko Yoshimura: cartidge belt, pistol belt, first aid pouch, anda canteen with cover and cup (1988.0644).
Joan M. Young: "Obsession” perfume bottle, 1985 (1988.0809).
Victor Yuliano: 17 8-track audiotape cartidges and a carrying case (1988.0497).
Charles H. Yust, Jr.: feed strip for Benet-Mercie machine gun (1987.0388).
Louis A. Zanoni: 3 electronic watch modules, 2 sets of electronic watch displays, a Chronar calculator watch, and liquid crystal display clock (19'87...035:8:)'.
Marian Elsie Metcalf Zimmerly: woman's Timex electric wrist watch (1987.0490).
David B. and Frankie Zurav: set of 10 artificial fingernails hand-painted with flag and patriotic motifs by Sue Ellen Schultes for Mrs. Zurav to wear at the inaugural events of 1989 (1989.0327).

<<<Page: 384>>>

Donors to the National Collections Personal Jeffrey B. Aardahl: 285 mollusks (377728, 378370, 378918). Dr. Tucker Abbott: 5 mollusks (373347). Dr. Mohamed Abou-El-Eneim: 6 fossils (384152). Nancy E. Adams: 37 misc. insects (387548). William Adams: 8 freshwater snails (382602). Dr. PH. Adler: 112 insects (.387338).. Steve Ahlstedt: 26+ freshwater clams (382555). Dr. Bruce Allen: 59 plants (384908). Joseph J. Anderson: 696 beetles (387333). Kenneth H. Anderson: 75+ freshwater mollusks (265208).
Comdr. Richard A. Anderson: 437 butterflies (382428, 383470, 387531, 387607).
J. Phillip Angle: a bird skeleton (379085).
Joallyn Archambault: a Yanktonai Sioux spirit (death) bundle (380541). Dr. Paul H. Arnaud, Jr.: 4,084 insects (387565).
Roy Ash: 2 minerals (381549).
Wallace L. Ashby: a fossil land mammal bone (380263). Mr. & Mrs. Wallace L. Ashby: 2 fossils (381128, 382517). Dr. Allan C. Ashworth: 8 insects (387616).
Dr. George T. Austin: 2 insects (387602).
Jon Bachman: a fossil peccary canine (385155).
Dr. L. Baert: 16 beetles (385087).
Dr. R. P. M. Bak: 100+ worms (349545).
Mr. & Mrs. J. Wayne Baker: 3 fossil whale skulls (382523).

<<<Page: 385>>>

Dr. George E. Ball: 5 Mexican beetles (387532). Dr. Lain Bangdel: 2 Nepalese temple paintings (364314).
M. F. Barada: a Moroccan woman’s caftan, a Tibetan hat, Chinese pajamas, a silk robe and cap (362994).
Carlos do Prado Barbosa: 11 minerals (381501, 383014, 383017). Roger C. Barnett: 5 minerals (383019).
Dr. Hans Bath: 14 fishes (382853, 383727).
Dr. William C. Bean: 23 fossil seal and whale remains (382532). Dr. Clark W. Beasley: a crustacean slide (383124).
Mrs. H. Lay Beaven: 16 archeological and ethnological Sioux artifacts (364363).
Steve Beck: 300 fossil microvertebrates (380237). Dr. Vitor O. Becker: 11 caddisflies (387566).
Dr. Denton Belk: 43 crustaceans (361180).
Dr. Cole Benton: 18 spiders (387610).
Robert L. Bertolo: 2 minerals (383035).
Meredith Berwick: 2 fossil fish teeth (385210). Phillip Betancourt: 2 minerals (381527, 384530). Dr. W. E. Bickley: 28 insects (387256).
Richard Bideaux: 5 minerals (378900).
Lance T. Biechele: a plant (383943).
W. B. Biggart: a mineral (381540).
Dr. Bill Birch: 3 minerals (381507).
Jack Blair: 11 fossil vertebrates (384134).
Dr. Daniel B. Blake: 5 fossils (383425).
Dr. Robert B. Blodgett: 135 fossil gastropods (384159, 384178). Dr. R. M. Bohart: a wasp (382804).
Dr. Iris Y. Borg: 636 minerals (373586).

<<<Page: 386>>>

Drs. Marie L. & Edgar F. Borgatta: a 22,892.5 cts topaz (THE AMERICAN GOLDEN) See also The American Federation of Mineralogical Soc. (379615).
Dr. Richard L. Bottorff: 1,061 Stone fives (387614). Dr. Raymond W. Bouchard: 54 crustaceans (315738). Dr. Arthur J. Boucot: 17 fossil brachiopods (384195). Bridgit Brill: a fossil fish tooth (385194).
Major J. Brodzinsky: a fossil moth (387561).
Mary Brooks: 6 crustaceans (374755).
Dr. Robert W. Brooks: 6 sawflies (387138).
Dr. Arthur V. Brown: 2 crustaceans (377415).
John Buckalew: a bird skin (370821).
David Bunk: 2 minerals (386138).
Mrs. Beatrice L. Burch: 454+ echinoderms (377423). J. B. Burch: 79 mollusks (271639).
Dr. Eugene M. Burreson: a worm (382786).
Dr. George W. Busby, III: 2 butterflies (387547).
Dr. Gary R. Byerly: 2 polished thin sections residue of the GREENWELL SPRINGS, Louisiana meteorite (384638).
Dr. George W. Byers: 26 centipedes (387321).
Curtis J. Callaghan: 103 butterflies (387585).
Dr. A. G. Carey, Jr.: 10 crustaceans (381794).
Dr. William Carlson: 7 minerals (384588).
Dr. John H. Carson: 2 fossils (385887).
Rick Carter: 16 fossil vertebrates (382535).
Caroline Chaboo: 14 freshwater clams (383184).
Ralph Chamness: a portion of a fossil gannet skull (381067). Paul E. Chanley: 383+ marine clams (281339, 287265).
John Chapman: 100+ crustaceans (378468).

<<<Page: 387>>>

Hideyuki Chiba: 9 Japanese butterflies (387260).
Alice Church: a foasil sea turtle bone (385209).
John Cianciulli: a mineral (383027).
Barbara Clark: a cuneiform tablet (367818).
Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke: 1,070 insects (387340).
Spencer Cocherl: a fossil seal canine (380265).
Dr Be d.. Coher: 31 flies (387339).
Dr. Richard W. Coleman: 2 crustaceans (381716).
Timothy Collins: a fossil (383403).
Carl Cook: 8 dragonflies (387623).
Steven Coon: 2 fossil blowfish vertebrae (385143).
Ann S. Cooper: 170 vials of synthetic crystals (384556). Candace Corson: a fossil monk seal jaw (382500).
Paul J. Cory: 10 minerals (378211).
Dr. Charles V. Covell: 5 butterflies (387318).
Kenneth W. Craddock: a fossil amphibian (380260).
Dr. William L. Crepet: See Also Dr. Carl W. Schafer (387571). Elizabeth M. Cridlin: See Aslo Urella Hill (385821). Jarrett L. Cross: 7,579 misc. insects (387528).
Forrest & Barbara Cureton: a mineral (383041).
Bruce Cutler: 302 misc. insects & arthropods (387317). Dr. Edward B. Cutler: 3,000+ worms (380888).
Dr. Walter W. Dalquest: 2 slabs of fossil Acanthodian spines (381133). Ruth P. Danforth: 12 crustaceans (375657).
Neil E. Dankert: 3 butterflies (387327).
Prof. Charles N. D’Asaro: mollusks egg capsules (383175).
Dr. Hieronim Dastych: a crustacean slide (386524).

<<<Page: 388>>>

Dr. Anthony D’Attilio: 2 mollusks (366139).
Dick Dayvault: a mineral (384522).
Dr. Anne DeBevoise: 25,000 worms (382781).
Larry Decina:. 5 fossils, (382529), 38453).
Mary DeDecker: 4 plants (383900).
David J. de Laubenfils: 138 plants (38643)).
Dr. Daniel Desbruyeres: a worm (380899).
S. Sydney DeYoung (deceased): a red diamond (377258, bequest).
Susan M. Divine: a Korean woman’s costume (364318).
Dr. Peter S. Dixon: 1,063 plants (381869, 381878, 386007, 386484).
Douglas Dodd: 75 fossils (379233).
Masahiro Dojiri: 2 crustaceans (379956).
Douglas Donald: 3 fossil monk seal bones (382455).
Ann Ford Doyle: an album of 42 Chinese brush paintings (358148). Jean Drivas: 55 mollusks (367887).
Drs Arnold T. ‘Drooz: 26 sawflies (387322; 387324).
Dr. Sidney W. Dunkle: 28 insects (387543, 387627).
Red Dwyer: a fossil seal metartarsal (381098).
Dr. Robert F. Dymek: a mineral (381508).
Dr. W. Eberhard: 152 spiders (387249, 387259).
Patricia M. Eckel: 74 mosses (382741).
Dr. Robert L. Edwards: 4 spiders (387246).
Corrine Ehrlich: 6 worms (382771).
Mr. & Mrs. Michael Ellwood: 3 fossil seal bones (385843). Dr. Hamed A. El-Nakhal: 6 fossils (385902).
Dr. Dodge Engleman: 721 insects (387272).
Roland Eriksson: 13 minerals (382989).

<<<Page: 389>>>

David P. Ernstes:.2 plants (385777).
Dr. Christer Erseus: 82 worms (382744, 382758). DraeDoeHs “Erwin: 6 fossils: (385187).
Elva Escobar-Briones: 23 crustaceans (371271, 373151). Dr. Ralph Eshelman: 4 fossil vertebrates (384137). Dr. H. H. Evenhuis: 23 wasps (387576).
John D. Everette: 5 fossil vertebrates (382527).
Dr. WsCay Fallaw: 3 fossil fish-skulls..(382508).
Dr. Rodney M. Feldman: 14 fossil barnacles (381106). Benny J. Fenn: a mineral (383015).
Frederick F. Ferguson: 50+ snails (294362).
Dr. B. A. Ferril: 10 fossil brachiopods (384187). Dennis E. Figg: 15+ snails (384061).
Dr. Michael Fleischer: 2 minerals (381484).
John F. Flennicker: 2 moths (387620).
Dr. Herve Floch: 60+ mollusks (260859).
Riusseau M. Flower: 2 land snails (373266).
George C. Fonger: 80 fossils (382463, 385132, 385192, 385203). Mrs. Marilyn Force: a fossil (382531).
Donald J. Forrester: 1,144+ mollusks (245060). Mercedes S. Foster: 10+ echinoderms (372262).
Jim Fowler: 2 minerals (384519).
Dr. Dirk Frankenberg: 3 marine mollusks (254130). Richard Franz: 160+ crustaceans (377376).
Jeffrey V. Freemen: 85 freshwater snails (381028). Dr. Amnon Freidberg: 1,499 misc. flies (387330).
Dr. C. G. Froehlich: 125 stoneflies (387253).

<<<Page: 390>>>

Dr. D..G. Furth: 22 sawflies (387223).
Jean-Yves Gallard: 184 butterflies (387331).
Frank Garcia: 2 fossil vertebrates (382536).
Julio Garcia-—Gomez: 14 crustaceans (379984).
Mr. & Mrs. John Garris: 2 fossil seal bones (381100). Kjell Gatedal: 9 minerals (382955).
Dr. M. Gentili: 50 spiders & 3 flies (387248). Howard Scott Gentry: 31 plants (385537).
Arthur Gerk: 2,933 fossil invertebrates (381111).
Dr. Ray Gibson: a worm (384463).
Lance Gilbertson: 4 mollusks (381968).
Dr. Rosemary Gillespie: 7 spiders (387247).
Derham Giulani: 765+ freshwater snails (376764, 378795, 381242). Prof. Folco Giusti di Massa: 10+ snails (378939). Bonita Glaser: 2 true bugs (387587).
Peter W. Glynn: 3 crustaceans (380020).
Dr. M. Ray Godfrey: a plant (383255))%
Janet Gomon: 8 fossil fish skeletons (381081).
Prof. Donald M. Gooch: 10+ mollusks (283711).
Dr. Robert H. Gore: 3 crustaceans (367147).
Pat Gotsis: a fossil tooth (385842).
William E. Gould: a zircon (384543).
David W. Grabda: 22 fossil vertebrates (382533).
Dr. Cynthia Gradek: 3+ crustaceans; 100+ worms (383085). Fred Grady: a bird (382406).
Arthur T. Grant: a mineral (386129).
Richard D. Greene: a Hopi sash & kilt (380506).

<<<Page: 391>>>

Mark Grygier: 10° corals (383654).
Hank Guarisco: 52 misc. spiders (387270).
Lloyd F. Gunther: 701 fossils (383443, 384141).
Mr. & Mrs. Lloyd F. Gunther: 231 slabs of fossil plants (384164). Val Gunther: See Also Dr. R. A. Robison (379289). Dr. Johnny Gusdon: a mineral (384544).
Dr. Courtney T. Hackney: 12+ crustaceans (378461). Gilles Hainault: See Also Arthur T. Grant (386129). William Hale: a fossil horse tibia (385906).
Dr. R. B. Halliday: 2 mites (387252).
Dr. Tatsuo Hamano: a crustacean (380013).
Frances and F. N. Hammerstrom: 3 bird skins (381963). Dr. Richard Hammond: 3+ crustaceans (381767). Jacques Hamon: 16 wasps (387345).
Prof. John Hanahan: approx. 600 minerals (381552). Walter J. Harman: snails (368206).
Christopher Harmatuk: 29 fossils (380235, 385153). Peter J. Harmatuk: 763 fossils (378523).
Dr. Chris Harris: a mineral (384524).
Dr. Harold W. Harry: 200+ oysters (373286).
A. D. Hart: 1,000+ land snails (376187).
Peter Hattenschwiler: 14 moths (387611).°
Dr. Loren R. Haury: 25 crustaceans (378420). Frederick G. Hayes: a fossil carnivore jaw (382543). Craig Healy: a fossil blowfish skull (378527).
Dr. Richard Heard: 4 crustaceans (378486).
Bill Heim: 167 fossils (381057, 383430, 384105, 384142).

<<<Page: 392>>>

Maria Angelica Heineck: 6 beetles (387254). Nancy Helm: 25+ crustaceans (381715).
Dr. Edward P. Henderson: a meteorite (386110). Norlan C. Henderson: 347 plants (380936).
Dr. Stephen Hesselbo: 2 fossils (379290). Gary F. Hevel: 11,588 misc. insects (387336). Dr. Roger H. Hewins: a meteorite (384642).
Tim Hicks: a quartz (381477).
Dr. Robert P. Higgins: 10,000+ crustaceans (385011).
Urella Hill: a ‘fossil skull (385821)) .
Mrs. Eleanor Hillman: 3 marine clams (289252).
Li Hing-Kun: 2 snails (377617).
Guillermo Schmeda Hirschmann: 39 plants (383570). Dr. Richard Hoare: 207 fossils (385164).
Dr. Horton H. Hobbs: 2 worm slides (376314).
Dr. Richard L. Hoffman: 15+ crustaceans (373828). Dr. Lincoln Hollister: 21 minerals (383034).
J. R. Holsinger: 120+ snails (376479, 383186). Dr. Perry C. Holt: 83+ worms (slides) (377652). Dr. Ralph W. Holzenthal: 5 insects (387544).
Jean M. Hooper: 3 fossils (380262).
Francis R. Horne: 20+ snails (383190).
Sid Hostetter: 2 fossil bird carpometarpus (380244).
Dr. Peter Houde: 3 birds (360435). Dr. Michael R. House: 30 fossils (382453). Jill Hovre: 100 mollusks (374708).
Dr. Brian Huber: 61 fossils (384144).

<<<Page: 393>>>

Leslie Hubricht: 65 snails (273828).
B. J. Huckenpahler: a wasp (387542).
George W. Hunter, III: snails (254728).
Randall D. Hunter: a portion of a fossil tapir jaw (383415). Dr. Paul D. Hurd (deceased): 1,873 insects (387281, 387335). Dr. John A. Hyatt: 4 butterflies (387320).
Mrs .& Mrs. Frank Hyne: 779 fossil vertebrates (378567) . Ronald M. A. Ison: 96 fossils (381121, 384143, 385151).
Mr. & Mrs. Vernon Iverson: iron oxide pseudomorphs after pyrite (381502). Dr. Michael Ivie: 219 beetles (387577, 387608).
Pierre H. Jabbour: a Punic jug (373810).
Lillian James: 3 figurines and a carved pipe (380514).
Dr. Samuel W. James: 4 worms (384489).
Dr. Daniel Janzen: 6 weevils (387556).
Maria Luisa Jimenez: 25 spiders (387269).
Dr. C. D. Johnson: 413 seed beetles (387279).
Dr. J. G. Johnson: 161 fossil brachiopods (382515).
Dr. James B. Johnson: 145 insects (387563).
Martin Johnson, Sr.: See Also Robert L. Bertolo (383035). Robert Johnson: a fossil monk seal jaw (382538).
Joshua Jones: a fossil catshark tooth (385822).
Lt. Col. John Justice: 25 butterflies (387619).
Dr. M. P. Kahl: 2 mollusks (279056).
Dr. Michael A. Kaminski: 39 fossils on slides (383424).
Dr. Thomas W. Kammer: 2 fossils (385170).
Dr. Anthony R. Kampf: 5 minerals (370940, 383006).
Dr. Pieter Kat: 4 snails (377365).

<<<Page: 394>>>

Dr. R. Deedee Kathman: 6 crustaceans (382762). Kathleen Kaupp: 62 Mexican masks (361596).
Dr. Isabel Kelley, Estate of: 83 Mexican textiles & wood artifacts (364366).
Michael G. Kellogg: 25+ snails (381266).
Dr. Edwin J. Keppner: 45 worms (376302, 380897). Kim Keum-hwa: 4 Korean ceremonial items (364315). Pastina Khaliq: a fossil tooth (385175).
Dr. Lynn S. Kimsey: 2 insects (387617).
Forrest Klies: 4 minerals (381505).
Dr. Stuart Knapp: 70+ snails (382624).
George Knowles: See Also Candace Corson (382500). Dr. Alan Kohn: 8+ worms (384461).
Dr. Boris C. Kondratieff: 317 insects (384096, 387242, 387545, 387580). Dr. H. H. Kool: 5 gastropods (380058).
Dr. Silvard Kool: 58 mollusks (368724).
Dr. Rita Korcezynski: 20 crustaceans (381714). Frank Koterba: 5 minerals (381547).
Dr. Eugene N. Kozloff£: 4 worms (264832). Alexander Kranz: a fossil (385886).
Dr. Peter M. Kranz: 25 fossil vertebrates (382464, 382486, 384107, 384171, 385809, 385812, 385841, 385868).
lst Lt. Kenneth A. Krieger: 2 snails (294090).
Dr. Frank E. Kurczewski: 246 flies (387567).
Mrs. Thomas Lambert: 3 fiber hats from Lesotho (362993). Jerry Landye: 12,000+ snails (381402).
Walter W. Langley: 60 marine mollusks (283883).
D. C. Larkin: crustaceans (383082).

<<<Page: 395>>>

Sr. Luis E. La Rotta C.: 115 caddisflies (387530, 387551). DEIR. (Seitawler., 1, 404einsects'('387260) .
Dr. John F. Lawrence: a beetle (387583).
Dr. James D. Lazell: a crustacean (377416); 20 insects (387326). Dr. Harry G. Lee: 50+ snails & clams (282376).
Dr. A. Scott Leiper: 300+ worms (300750).
Dr. Rafael Lemaitre: 110 crustaceans (378451, 378463, 378464). Dr. Jay Leverone: 116 worms (382768).
Dr. James T. List: a fossil (384147).
Dr. Jean-Pierre Lorand: a mineral (386159).
George Lucy: a fossil mastadon tooth (384182).
John C. Ludlum: 2 clams (302669).
Spencer R. Luke: 3 crustaceans (381701).
Ron Lupton: a mineral (384576).
William G. Lyons: a mollusk (363458).
Howard A. MacCord: 245+ mollusks (282141).
Amaro Macedo: 80 plants (382333, 383289, 383603, 384732).
Dr. Andy S. Y. Mackie: 4 worms (382755).
Dr. Norman MacLeod: 26 slides of fossils (385123).
Dr. Rosalie F. Maddocks: 15 crustaceans (374082); 56 fossils (383452). Fred Magnusson: 3 minerals (386130).
Lynne Maillet: 6 cordierite w/granitoids (382572).
Dr. Zoran J. Maksimovic: 2 minerals (386139).
Dr. J. Maldonado: 7 insects (387334).
Dr. Royal H. Mapes: 7 fossils (383458).
Dr. R. Marinez: 12 clams (383185).
Sam Marshall: 143 misc. insects & arthropods (387312).

<<<Page: 396>>>

Dr. Robert L. Martin: a fossil walrus skull (385133). Dr. Brian Mason: a meteorite, LUJAN, Argentina (386106). Bryant Mather: a scorpionfly (387550).
Dr. James F. Matta: 20,000 aquatic insects (387276).
Dr. Michael Mazurkiewicz: 30+ snails (378938).
Dr. Anne B. McCrary: 42 worms (275606, 333190).
Colin McEwen: a plesiosaur vertebra (381149).
Marion McDowell: 6 crustaceans (349661).
Dr. George C. McIntosh: a fossil (386630).
Dr. Frank K. McKinney: 96 fossils (381102).
Dr. Robert B. McLaughlin: a fossil strew slide (385186). Dr. James McLean: gastropods (371504).
Jack McLellan: 7,413 fossil fish remains (381063, 382499, 384160, 385193).
Jerry A. McLelland: 9 worms (380898).
John M. & Lucy McLuckie, Estate of: 2,500 fossils (384115). Dr. Franco Medioli: a fossil (384106).
Dr. John T. Medler: 5 bugs (387245).
Peter Megaw: 4 minerals (383032).
Raymond H. Meisenhalder: a beryl, 0.68 carats (381533). Mari Mejia: a fossil mosasaur tooth (385851).
Dr. Marcello Mellini: a mineral (383030).
Dr. Eustorgio Mendez: 9 fleas (387596).
Eric Metzler: 86 moths (387615).
Dr. Julio Micheli: 120 beetles (387589).
Charles B. Miller: 37 crustaceans (377414).
Dr. John Miller: 2 worms (382790).
Laura Miller: 17 misc. lace bugs (387555).

<<<Page: 397>>>

Dr. William Miller, III: 25 fossils (382494).
Dr. Tomoyuki Miura: 3 worms 382784).
Dr. Ritsuro Miyawaki: a mineral (381524).
Mrs. Mary Jo Molineaux: 1,295 insects (387343). Guillermo Moreno: crustaceans (380039).
Dr. J. P. E. Morrison (deceased): 30+ marine mollusks (276609). Dr. Edward O. Murdy: 53 crustaceans (368142, 373774). George Naff: 42 Egyptian artifacts (378937).
Dr. Ray B. Nagle: 126 moths (387341).
Pir Nasir: 25+ mollusks (298887).
Dr. Kurt Nassau: a mineral (384591).
Dr. Michael B. Nathan: 4 insects (387593).
Bruce C. Netschert: a fossil fish (383416).
Dr. Catherine Nigrini: 5 radiolarians (385181). Charles Novak, Jr.: 28 minerals (384528).
Gordon Nowell-Usticke: 4 gastropods (259707).
Dr. Brendan O’Connor: 2 worms (353357).
Dr. Edward J. Olsen: a meteorite, EAGLE, Nebraska (386108). Dr. Paul A. Opler: 341 butterflies (387539, 387612). Cecilia Osorio R.: 2 mussels (260161).
Dr. B. H. R. Othman: 6 crustaceans (381703).
Dr. William Leslie Overal: 719 weevils (387549). Eddie Overstreet: a fossil protocetid tooth (385180). Tom Parks: a fossil cervical vertebra (384193).
Dr. Randy R. Patrick: 11 fossils with trace fossils, 3 slides with assoc. fragments (386613).
Joseph Pawlik: 33+ worms (346429).
Dr. David L. Pearson: a beetle (387605).

<<<Page: 398>>>

Mr. & Mrs. Joel Penn: 2 dinosaur bones (383445). Prof. Charles A. Peters: marine shells (269599). Dr. Ole V. Petersen: 15 minerals (383018, 383047). Dr. Jon Petranek: 9 minerals (386140).
Dr. Ivan Petrov: a mineral (384568).
Dr. Edward J. Petuch: 24 fossil gastropods (381151). Dr. Allan R. Phillips: 3 bird skeletons (385664). Joseph Pinto: a dinosaur bone fragment (385885). Sherry Pittam: 100 plants (381374).
John Pittman: 4 fossil vertebrates (382530).
Fred Plumb: 9 fossil shark teeth (383367).
Dr. Yves Plusquellec: a fossil cast (385122).
Dr. John T. Polhemus: 35 insects (387554).
Dr. Winston F. Ponder: a mollusk (367888).
Mark Ports: 15 land & freshwater snails (382554). Charles W. Potter: a bird skin (384667).
Dr. Jerry Powell: 2 wasps (382632).
Dr. Shreedhar P. Pradham: 62 mosquitoes (387538). Elizabeth Hayse Pratt: a fiber basket (363028). Dr. C. Pregenzer: 11 crustaceans (378471).
Tom Pride: a fossil tapir tooth (381123).
Dr. Vernon W. Proctor: 30+ snails (377729).
Dr. Ki\E. -Pruess%: :94-flies’ (387529).
Dr. W. J. Pulawaski: 9 wasps (382633).
Dr. Li Qiang: 32 wasps (387258).
Bernard Raffery: See Also Stephen Syphax (376285).
Russell A. Rahn: 1,174 butterflies & moths (382800, 383469, 387328,
387541).

<<<Page: 399>>>

Dr. W. F. Rapp: 2. scorpions (387271).
Dr. Jean-Yves Rasplus: 37 parasitic wasps (387553).
Dr. Warren J. Rathjen: a crustacean (378516).
GharlesvR. /Read, Srac4 minerals. (381553);
Ken Reading: 15 crustaceans (378475).
Dr. Richard L. Reeder: a land snail (377614).
Jan Reese: 45 bird skins (382405).
Phillip Reese: a fossil (383442).
Dr. David Reid: 75 gastropods (368723).
Mandy Reid: 7 worms (380895).
George Reiger: 3 birds (382870).
Dr. Thomas Reinecke: 4 minerals (383029).
Dr. Donald J. Reish: a worm (259354).
Dr. Shuang K. Ren: 2 minerals (386158).
Dr. Johanna Resig: 19 fossils (383401).
Robert B. Richardson: 11 African agricultural implements (361324). Dr. David Richman: 12 spiders (387255)..
Dr. J. Keith Rigby: 29 fossils (383463).
Norman Riker: 2 fossil mammal vertebrates (380271).
Dr. Tyson Roberts: 25+ shrimps (369289).
Blake Robinson: 101 West African stone figures (362302).
Dr. Henry W. Robison: 133 crayfishes (378505, 379968, 380004). Dr. Richard A. Robison: 2 fossils (379289); 13 fossil echinoderms (381113). Rosa Vidal Rodriquez: a mummified hummingbird (381191).
Dr. David M. Rohr: 105 fossil gastropods (381115).
Dr. L. H. Rolston: 10 insects (387586).
Beppy Ronco: 2 minerals (382970).

<<<Page: 400>>>

Robert W. Root: 38 Philippino ethnological items (362991). Vincent D. Roth: 358 spiders (387134).
Greg Rouse: 19 worms (382769).
Dr. Jose I. Saiz Salinas: 26 worms (380906).
Dr. K. S. Samson: 45+ mollusks (294773).
Kiel Sandved: 5 mollusks (274003).
Dr. Paul Sartenaer: 3 fossil brachiopods and plastercasts (385884). Dr. Carl W. Schafer: an insect (387571).
Kathy Schaffer: a fossil peccary metatarsal (385831).
Dr. Rudolf S. Scheltema: 390 worms (384482).
Robert Schmidt: a fossil sperm whale tooth (380264).
Dr. Robert W. Schmieder: 100+ crustaceans (383152).
Jason Schoonover: 103 Devil Dance and Kolam masks and paraphernalia (364316).
Dr. David R. Schwimmer: 30 fossils (385826).
Mrs. Joanne Sedgewick: 96 fossils (385166).
Mr. & Mrs. A. James Seidl: 7 ivory & bone Eskimo artifacts (379712).
Dr. William A. Shear: a fossil centipede (383404).
Dr. Yoshihide Shiga: a mineral (382973).
Dr. Masaaki Shimizu: 3 minerals (382987, 384569).
Dr. Yoshihisa Shirayama: 5 worms (382770).
Dr. Thomas Shirley: 65+ crustaceans (376915).
Jan Shopland: a fossil dinosaur tooth (385888).
Dr. John A. Shuey: 3 butterflies (387325).
Douglas Siegel-Causey: 73+ crustaceans (378441, 378513). David Oscar Siegert: 14 fossil vertebrates (380266).
Dr. Petra Sierwald: 111 spiders (387250).
Diana Silva: 38 spiders (387316).

<<<Page: 401>>>

Dr. Robert Sites: 50 plant bugs (383688).
Connie Smith: a fossil sea cow bone (384138).
Mr. & Mrs. Edward H. Smith: 81 ethnological artifacts (361230). Elaine Smith: a portion of a fossil sloth tooth (384192). Dr. Julian P. S. Smith, III: 4 worms (382747).
Dr. Lyman B. Smith: 14 paintings of plants (385585).
Dr. Richard Smith: 5 corals (381675).
Dr. Diana N. Solie: 13 minerals (381480, 382974).
Richard Soper: a fossil skull (385162).
Dr. Monica De Cassia de Souza Campos: 2 insects (387575). Dr. Everett Spackman: 185 moths (387244).
O. D. Spencer: 4,120 butterflies (387337).
Dr. Sheldon Spencer: a fossil primitive whale jaw (381080). Dr. Charles L. Staines: 2,478 insects (387557).
Dr. Michael G. Stamatakis: 10+ minerals (382972).
Dr. Clifford R. Stanley: a mineral (377234).
Drs C.K. Starrs, 91 insects: (367332).
Henry M. Stevenson: a bird skin (379091).
Dr. Ross K. Stevenson: a mineral (384587).
William L. Stockton: 6 worms (307087).
Dr. Manya Stoetzel: 1,496 insects (387267, 387604).
Janet Stone: 116 West African artifacts (361235).
Ben M. Stout, III: 55 caddisflies (387546, 387568).
Anita L. Suazo: a Pueblo blackware melon jar (380508).
Dr. J. Bolling Sullivan: 495 insects (383694, 383865, 385685). Connie Sutton: a portion of a fossil seal pelvis (381126).
Sean Sweeney: 10 gems (381499, 381523).

<<<Page: 402>>>

Mrs. Mary R. Swicegood: a fossil sea cow ribs & axis (381093). Clyde Swindell: 88 fossil vertebrates (382524).
Stephen Syphax: 105 crustaceans (376285, 381797); a worm (381797). Dr. Stanley W. Szczytko: 2 insects (387578).
Dr. Tsutomu Tanabe: 2 millipedes (387574).
Dr. Barbara Taylor: 25 crustaceans (381708).
Stephen F. Taylor: a humming bird skeleton (382392).
Dr. K. J. Tennessen: a dragonfly (387624).
Dr. Vincent Tepedino: 516 wasps (387591).
Margaret C. Teskey: 40+ snails (285333).
Earl Thompson: 16 fossil veretebrates (380223).
Dr. Fred G. Thompson: 40 mollusks (356856, 378668).
Tony Thompson: 4 mollusks (293773).
Dr. Jon Toal: 70+ crustaceans (381764).
Tambrey A. Tosk: 67 fossils (383444).
Dr. Robert Traub: 1,272 lice (387570).
Dr. V. Tunnicliffe: a crustacean (383078).
Paul Turner: 2 crustaceans (385077).
Mrs. Patricia E. Ulisse: a bird skin (383484).
W. C. Van Laer: a quart/w beryl (384571).
Dr. Wouter I. Van Tichelen: 7 minerals (381476, 384502, 386128). Lic. Beatriz S. Varona: land snails (383169).
Dr. Stephen T. Viada: 20+ echinoderms (381651).
Dr. Emily H. Vokes: a fossil gastropod (381108).
Dr. Kurt Walenta: amine (369396).
Dr. Robert D. Ward: 1,625 insects (385508).
Dr. Ronald A. Ward: 19 slides of lice (387536).

<<<Page: 403>>>

Dr. Anders Waren: a mollusk (375618).
Gwendolyn L. waning: 2 small moths (387573).
Jim Washington: See Also Douglas Dodd (379233).
Dr. Les Watling: 1,000+ crustaceans (381749).
Charles N. Watson, Jr.: 14 butterflies (387319).
Clifton S. Weaver: a marine mollusk (282007).
Albert & Alice Weeks: 350 boxes of vanadium & uranium ores (385374). Dr. Robert E. Weems: a fossil turtle carapace (385156). David Wells: 2 fossils (383389, 385878).
Mike Welzenbach: a fossil fish skeleton (383426).
Dr. John Weske: 5 birds (370820).
Jason West: a fossil protocetid tooth (385179).
Dr. James Westgate: a fossil sturgeon plate (381089).
Dr. Alfred G. Wheeler: 173 plantbugs (387613).
Dr. Craig M. White: a meteorite (378235).
Dr. D. R. Whitehead: 674 insects (387329, 387564).
Thomas E. Whiteley: 15+ fossils (383378).
Dr. J. E. Whittaker: 6 fossils in one microslide (385127). Ronald Wielgus: 154 insects (387243, 387257, 387273, 387579, 387594). Bob Wiest: 275 fossils (381124, 384130, 385840).
Gaye Williams: 7 fossils (385144, 385827).
Gwen N. Williams: 5 crustaceans (380045).
Dr. Barry Wilson: 16 mollusks (379938).
Mr. & Mrs. Steve Wilson: 2 fossils (385173).
Vivian J. Wilson: 81 insects (387606).
Mrs. Mary Winters: a mineral (384523).
Dr. Timothy S. Wood: 2 fossils (386626).

<<<Page: 404>>>

Eugenia I. Wright: a collection of mollusks (383177).
Kirk E. Wright: 29 crustaceans (376756).
Dr. John Wurdack: 2 insects (387315).
Ellis Yochelson: 73. fossils (381140, 385197, .386606).
Mrs. Lily Yochelson: 14 snails (376470).
Dr. Frank N. Young: 1,166 insects (387534, 387626). Ken Young: 31 plants (382288, 382318).
Veronica Young: See Also Pastina Khaliq (385175). Jeanne A. Zeh: 21 flies (387251).
Dr. Michael E. Zolensky: 2 meteorites (382909).
Dr. Victor A. Zullo: 15 fossil barnacles (381120).

<<<Page: 405>>>

Donors to the National Collections
Institutions A. Remington Kellogg Fund: 3 fossil whale skulls (383429).
Aarhus University, Denmark: Herbarium Jutlandicum: 17 plants (382709, 385702).
Academia Sinica, Taiwan: 3 plants (383231, 383569, 385759).
Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Russia: V.L. Komarov Botanical Institute: 92 plants (384314).
Alabama, University of: 41 plants (385576). Alaska University Museum: 4 bird skins and skeletons (382895, 383491).
American Federation of Mineralogical Societies See Also Drs. Edgar F. and Marie L. Borgatta (379615).
American Gem Society: 31 gemstone jewelry items (336073).
American Museum of Natural History: 10 fishes (383725; 2 spiders (387609). Amoco Production Company: 111 fossils (384166).
Arizona State University: 2 plants (383963).
Arizona, University of: Herbarium: a plant (384760)
Asociacion Mexicana de Orquideologia: 2 plants (381923).
Auburn, University of: 7 insects (387590).
Australian National University, Australia: 25 plants (385531).
Battelle: 4 meteorites (386118).
Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 51+ echinoderms (381669, 383684); 84 plants (386488).
Biosystematics Research Institute, Canada: 101 insects (387314). Black Hills Institute of Geological Research, Inc.: 10 fossils (384114). Bossier Parish Nature Study Center: 5 plants (383946).
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 2 plants (384763).
Brigham Young University: Monte L. Bean Life Science Museum: a crustacean (376757); 845 caddisflies (384047); 2 plants (384244, 385551).

<<<Page: 406>>>

British Columbia University, Canada: 18 echinoderms (333381); 3 crustaceans (374626).
British Museum (Natural History), England: 60 plants (381348); 7 insects (382809, 387274).
Calicut, University of, India: a plant (385701).
California Academy of Sciences: 207 fishes (382146); echnioderms including microscope slides (383653, 385438); 116 plants (384721, 385546).
California State University: Hayward Campus: 16 crustaceans (383122). University of California: 22 crustaceans (372334); 2 worms (373883); 109 plants (382700, 384246); 3 insects (387119); Scripps Institution of Oceanography: 102 crustaceans (359849, 375768); 85 echinoderms (376790, 381665, 381688).
Cambridge, University of England: 2 plants (383319).
Canada Department of Mines, Canada: a slab of fossil brachiopods (382521).
Canfield Fund: 10 minerals (378898, 380424, 381504, 381517, 381532, 381537, 382967, 382969),.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History: 8 plants (385706). Casey Fund: 5,861 insects (387581, 387588). Center for Research in Medical Entomology, South India: 5 insects (387535).
Centre O.R.S.T.O.M, France: Herbier: 454 plants (381905, 381907, 383288, 383298, 384930, 384954, 385539, 386306, 386422).
Centro de Agricultura Tropical, Colombia: 246 plants (386441). Centro Internacional de la Papa, Peru: 152 plants (384963).
Chamberlain Fund: 3 minerals and a cut gem (381460, 381463, 383016, 383051).
Colegio de Postgraduados, Mexico: 52 plants (382684, 383565, 383623, 385524).
Colorado, University of: Boulder Campus: 5 plant bugs (385365).
Conservatoire et Jardin Botaniques de la Ville de Geneve, Switzerland: 52 plants (383244, 383618, 383894, 384765, 386416).
Copenhagen, University of, Denmark: 37 plants (385550). Cornell University: 6 fishes (384331); 8 insects (387277).
Dauphin Island Sea Lab: 6+ echinoderms (322098).

<<<Page: 407>>>

Delaware Museum of Natural History: 46 clams (305737). Depto. de Oceanografia FURG, Brazil: a crustacean (373668). Desert Botanical Garden: 39 plants (383923).
Dickinson College: 2 crustaceans (376323).
Drake’ Fund: 5,867. insects. (383222, 387597, 387618).
Estafeta Universitaria, Panama: Herbario de la Universidad de Panama: 228 plants (382354).
Eastern Marine Fisheries Development Center, Thailand: 50+ crustaceans (385024).
Field Museum of Natural History: 54 plants (384728, 386302, 386315, 386425, 386477).
Florida State University: a plant (383295). Florida, University of: 28 plants (381925, 383285); 89 insects (387540).
Forschungsinstitut Senckenberg, West Germany: 18 echinoderms (379374, 381679).
Franklin & Marshall College: North Museum: 2 slabs with dinosaur footprints (379279) .
Friday Harbor Laboratories: 3 echinoderms (385426)
Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica, Brazil: 135 plants (386446, 386461).
Georgia, University of: 5 echinoderms (381696).
George Mason University: 14 crustaceans (373298).
Grice Marine Biological Laboratory: 469 crustaceans (374016).
Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution, Inc.: 4 echinoderms (379371, 381686): Indian River Costal Zone Museum: 675 echinoderms (381670, 383643, 385416, 385405, 385440).
Harvard University: Herbarium: 2 plants (384719, 385564); Museum of Comparative Zoology: 19 insects (383692).
Hawaii Undersea Research Laboratory: 20 fossil (383375) Hawaii, University of: a fish (380448); 9 echinoderms (381671). Hebrew University, Israel: a fish (385486).
Herbario Nacional de Bolivia, Bolivia: 516 plants (383291).

<<<Page: 408>>>

Herbarium Humboldtianum, Argentina: 3 plants (382685).
Hillsdale College: a mounted ivory-billed woodpecker (383507).
Hong Kong, University of, China: 5 crustaceans (373884, 374645). Houston, University of: 100 crustaceans including slides (373162). Idaho, University of: 5 plants (385755).
Illinois State Museum: 3 insects (387625).
Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, India: 51 insects (387537). Indiana, University of: 3 plants (383243).
Institut de Geologie et Paleontologie, Switzerland: 42 fossils (384174).
Institute of Oceanographic & Fisheries Research (1I.0.A.K.E.), Greece: 11 fishes (385964).
Institute of Systematic Botany, The Netherlands: 211 plants (381914, 383580, 383581, 383596, 383966,° 384964, 385566, 385725).
Instituto Anchietani de Pesquisas, Brazil: Herbarium Achieta: 26 plants (385580, 386817).
Instituto Boliviano de Biologia de Altura, Bolivia: Herbier ORSTOM: 26 plants (381853, 385597).
Instituto de Botanica del Nordeste, Argentina: 3 plants (384293). Instituto Investigaciones Pesqueras, Spain: 64 fishes (385965). Instituto Miguel Lillo, Argentina: 45 insects (387323).
Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones sobre Recursos Bioticos, Mexico: Herbario: 5 plants (381880, 381902).
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Brasil: a plant (384250); 7 insects (387595).
International Potato Center, Peru: 290 plants (384766). Isleta de sur Pueblo (Tiqua), Indian Nation of: a ceramic pot (380540). J. L. B. Smith Institute of Ichthyology, South Africa: 17 fishes (382833).
Jardin Botanico Nacional, Dominican Republic: "Dr. Rafael M. Moscoso" Herbarium: 61 plants (383930, 385715, 385720).
Joseph M. Long Marine Laboratory: 4 protozoan slides (381694).
Kansas, University of: 4 insects (387598).

<<<Page: 409>>>

Karachi, University of, Pakistan: 28 crustaceans (370167). Leeds, University of, England: 21 plants (385529).
Louisiana State University: 4 bird skeleton (379073, 384648)); 21 plant (384264, 384909).
Lyman House Memorial Museum: a mineral (374517).
Maine, University of: 200 echinoderms (326791); a fossil and a fossil cast (385169).
Malaysia Forest Department Headquarters, Malaysia: Sarawak Herbarium: 5 plants (383909).
McGill University, Canada: 100 worms (281792).
Miami Metro Zoo: 17 frozen birds (383513).
Miami, University of: 8 crustaceans (332276); 188 echinoderms (335313). Michigan State University: 16 plants (385559).
Michigan, University of Michigan: Herbarium: a plant (383268)
Mineral Fund: 32 specs. including minerals, quartzs and copper (381506, 381531, 381536, 381550, 382958, 382988, 383023, 384510, 384526, 384545).
Missouri Botanical Garden Herbarium: 2,729 plants (381879, 381891, 381892, 381893, 381896, 381909, 381911, 381917, 381919, 382358, 382359, 382688, 382694): 382712, 382725, 383226, 383227, 383251,) 383274, 3838.77. 384249, 384307, 384318, 384744, 384755, 384771, 384884, 384918, 384920, 385553, 386320).
Montana State University: 3 crustaceans (383064); 75 mollusks (384082, 384821).
Museo Civico di Storia Naturale del Salento, Italy: a bird skeleton (382894).
Museu Botanico Municipal Herbario, Brazil: 92 plants (382304, 384269, 386787).
Museum National D’Histoire Naturelle, France: a fish (382149).
Museum and Art Galleries of the Northern Territory, Australia: an echinoderm (385412).
Museum of Victoria, Australia: 2 mollusks (383194). Nagasaki University, Japan: 6 fishes (382144).
National Institute of Oceanography, England: 3 echinoderms (383649).

<<<Page: 410>>>

National Museum New Zealand, New Zealand: 62 fishes (385488).
National Taiwan University: Ichtyological Laboratory: China: 12 fishes (382842).
Nevada State Museum: 11 plants (381881). New Hampshire, University of: 26 echinoderms (327197).
New York Botanical Garden: Herbarium: 1,451 plants (381921, 382647, 383237, 383294, 383957, 384767, 385695, 386307).
Normandeau Associates, Inc.: 850 crustaceans (335539). North Carolina State University: 5 protozoan microscope slides (381656). North Carolina, University of: 17 plants (381877, 381924).
Northern Arizona University: a protozoan slide (381659); 9 fossils (383440); a plant (383574).
Northern Territory of Arts & Sciences, Australia: a shrimp (373710). Northern Virginia Community College: 4+ echinoderms (383662):
Nova University: echinoderms (385436).
Ohio Department of Natural Resources: 2 plants (384294).
Okayama University of Science, Japan: 11 plants (379783).
Okinawa Expo Aquarium, Japan: 2 echinoderms (347964).
Old Dominion University: a worm (374049).
Oporto University, Portugal: Institute of Biomedical Sciences: 2 echinoderms (383676).
Oregon State University: 33 plants (382717).
Pacific Tropical Botanical Garden: 3 plants (385578).
Pala International: 3 minerals (381485).
Paul E. Desautels Fund: a faceted gem (382993).
Pennsylvania State University: 45 fishes (374857, 377819, 381222). Port Harcourt, University of, Nigeria: 65 crustaceans (372575). Premier Gem Corporation: 2 diamond replicas (381503).
Puerto Rico, University of: a fish (382856).

<<<Page: 411>>>

Queensland, University of, Australia: 6 slides of echinoderms (383641). Rama de Botanica Herbario-Hortorio, Mexico: 25 plants (382684). Ramkhamhaeng University, Thailand: 296 crustceans (383063, 385025).
Rijksmuseum Van Natuurlijke Historie, The Netherlands: a crustacean (367363); an echinoderms (381676); 170 fossil birds (384186).
Roebling Fund: 30 minerals (381465, 381473, 381522, 381534, 382953, 382983, (383022).
Roland W. Brown Fund: 1,745 fossil plants (380291, 385199, 385200).
Royal Botanic Garden Herbarium, England: 53 plants (381840, 382690, 386473).
Royal College of Surgeons of England, England: 6 bird skeletons (382017)
Royal Ontario Museum, Canada: a bird (383499).
San Angelo State University: 5 bird study skins (364046).
San Francisco State University: 2 slides of echinoderms (385415).
Santa Barbara Museum of Natural History: 31 plants (386483).
Sea Pharm. Inc.: 8+ echinoderms (385400).
Shanghai Museum of Natural History, China: 33 fossils (382520).
Smithsonian Institution: Restricted Funds: See Also Canfield Fund, Casey Fund, Drake Fund, Mineral Fund, Paul E. Desautels Fund, Roebling Fund, Roland W. Brown Fund, Springer Fund, Stuart Fund, Walcott Fund.
South African Museum, South Africa: 3 echinoderms (385435).
South Australian Museum, Australia: 2 octocorals (381657); 2 worms (384481).
South Carolina, University of: a crustacean and 2 worms (383053).
South Pacific, University of, Fiji Islands: 6 fishes (315925).
Southern Arkansas University: 139 crustaceans (373082, 383072, 372049). Springer Fund: 21 fossil echinoderms (382488).
Station Marine d’Endoume et Centre d’Oceanographie, France: 5 crustaceans (366009, 374069); an echinoderm (383680).
Stellenbosch, University of, South Africa: a plant (385760).
Stetson University: 7 plants (382262).

<<<Page: 412>>>

Stuart Fund: 13 minerals (378915, 379603, 381462, 381475, 381486, 381498).
Suriname, University of, Suriname: National Herbarium of Suriname: 30 plants (383235).
T. F. H. Publications, Inc.: 50 fishes (382854). Tall Timbers Research Institute, Inc.: 5000 worms (382788).
Texas A&M University: 73 crustaceans (373058, 375712); 14 plants (382706, 383935); fossils (386617).
Texas, University of: Herbarium: 103 plants (383225, 383292, 385521). Tianjin Animal & Plant Quarantine Service: China: an insect (387569). Tiroler Landesmuseum Ferinandeum, Austria: 3 insects (387342).
Tokyo, University of, Japan: an echinoderm (385401).
Toronto, University of, Canada: 6 echinoderms (385407); a plant (386044). Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute, India: a plant (386478). Tulane University: 30 fishes (383732): a fossil (384121).
Universidad Autonoma De Baja California, Mexico: 9 crustaceans (375649). Universidad Autonoma de Sinaloa, Mexico: 9 plants (386805).
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Venezuela: 270 plants (381933, 382667, 384736, 384739, 386462).
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina: 28 crustaceans (361566). Universidad de Concepcion, Chile: 40 echinoderms (383650). Universidad de Guadalajara, Mexico: 2 plants (384296).
Universidad del Quindio, Colombia: 59 plants (383885).
Universidad Nacional, Columbia: 15 plants (384251, 382275, 383278). Universidad Nacional Autonoma, Honduras: a plant (382643). Universidad Nacional de Asuncion, Paraguay: 8 plants (382264).
Universidad Nacional Experimental de los Llanos Occidentales, Venezuela: 254 plants (384239).
Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos de Lima, Peru: 76 plants (384240, 384720).
Universidade de Caxias do Sul, Brasil: Herbario: 460 plants (381313,

<<<Page: 413>>>

381314, 381347, 382352, 382674, 382681, 382714, 383249, 383272, 383284, 383322, 383562;° 384897).
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil: 12 fishes (338838); 3 plants (383950).
Universidade Estadual Sao Paulo, Brazil: Instituto de Biologia: 56 plants (382336)
Universidade Federal da Paraiba, Brazil: 44 fishes (382839). Universidade Federal De Vicosa, Brasil: 15 plants (381850). Universidade Federal Do Rio De Janeiro, Brazil: 25+ crustaceans (385054).
Universitat Hamburg: Germany: 2 crustaceans (381766); Herbarium: 6 plants (381875).
Universitat Wien, Austria: Institute fur Botanik: a plant (383968).
Universitat Zurich: Institut fur Systematische Botanik, Switzerland: 16 plants (382704, 384309).
Utsunomiya University, Japan: 14 plants (380665). Victoria, University of, Canada: a crustacean (381773).
Walcott Fund: (380291-See Also Roland W. Brown) 276 fossils (381135, 382525, 385129).
Washington State University: 345 plants (381908).
Western Australian Museum, Australia: 8 echinoderms (385404). Western Ontario, University of, Canada: a plant (383893). West Florida, University of: 5 fishes (383733).
Wildlife Research Laboratory: 4 crustaceans (373770).
Wisconsin, University of: Herbarium: 5 plants and 3 photo copies of plants (382321, 382699, 383239, 383920, 384267).
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute: 103+ worms (271291, 384471).

<<<Page: 414>>>

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY Donors to the Collection
Anonymous donor. Photograph, gelatin silver print, of James Jones by Nancy Crampton (NPG.88.118).
The Barra Foundation. Bronze bust portrait of S. Dillon Ripley by Walker Hancock (S/NPG. 89.24).
The Family of Philip Dix Becker. Watercolor on ivory miniature portrait of Chief Thundercloud by Eulabee Dix (NPG.89.66).
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation. Oil on canvas portrait of George Berkeley by John Smibert (NPG.89.25).
Mrs. Boris Chaliapin. Original artwork for TIME Magazine covers of Synman Rhee (1950) and Harry Truman (1951).
Mrs. Boris Chaliapin and Irina Chaliapin Murphy. Oil on canvas portrait of George London (T/NPG.89.67.95); oil on canvas portrait of Fritz Reiner by Boris Chaliapin (NPG.89.68); one drawing each of the following: Katherine Dunham (T/NPG.89.75.00), Marlene Dietrich (T/NPG.89.74.00), Jascha Heifetz (T/NPG.89.76.97), Arturo Toscanini (NPG.89.78), and Dmitri Tiomkin (NPG.89.77) by Boris Chaliapin; one print of Boris Chaliapin, self-portrait (S/NPG.89.73); pencil and gouache studies for TIME Magazine covers of Admiral Chester Nimitz (circa 1942) and Henry Ford (1946) by Boris Chaliapin.
Mariana Cook. Photograph, gelatin silver print, of Lillian Hellman by Mariana Cook (T/NPG.88.210.94).
Beverly J. Cox. Halftone music sheet of Kate Smith, unidentified artist (S/NPG.89.4).
Ralph Crump and Donna Harman. Painted plaster bust portrait of Clarence Darrow by Kathleen Wheeler (NPG.89.112); plaster bust miniature portrait of Clarence Darrow by Kathleen Wheeler (NPG.89.111); painted plaster bust portrait of George Norris (NPG.89.113).
T. Mellon Evans Foundation. Tempera and gouache on cardboard portrait of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas by Sir Francis S. Rose (NPG.88.161) (partial odttit)) :
Rosemary Frank. Studies for TIME Magazine covers of Edward Kennedy by Larry Rivers (1971); Paul McCartney by Peter Max (1976); "Hippies" by Group Image (1967); Jeanne Moreau by Kees Van Dongen (1965).
Lydia Freeman. "Newstand", magazine, featuring lithograph of Al Hirschfeld by Don Freeman (T/NPG.88.213.00).
Ira Glackens. Bronze head portrait of Charles Fitzgerald by Jo Davidson (S/NPG.89.3); Oil on wood panel portrait of Rutherford B. Hayes by Lenna Glackens (S/NPG.89.2).
Carolyn Reading Hammer. Tempera on panel self-portrait of Victor Hammer, "Man in Black Robe" (NPG.89.51); Silverpoint drawing of Victor Hammer, selfportrait (NPG.89.59); Mezzotint of Victor Hammer, self-portrait (NPG. 89.60).
Dr. Fred W. Hicks III. Lithograph of Edward Everett, Currier & Ives (NPG.89.63); Lithograph of John Hughes, Currier & Ives (NPG.89.64).
Richard Hinds. Oil on canvas portrait of Edward L. Bernays by Patricia Tate (NPG. 88.212.00).
Judith and Steven Katten. Tempera painting of John Gilbert by Batiste Madalena (NPG.89.80).
Patricia John Keightly and John Spaulding John. Oil on canvas portrait of Thomas Mann by Grace S. John (NPG.88.203).

<<<Page: 415>>>

Benjie Goodman Lasseau and Rachel Goodman Edelson. Oil on canvas portrait of Benny Goodman by Rene Bouche (T/NPG.89.1.26).
David Levine. Thirty-three ink drawings of American political figures by David Levine (S/NPG.88.124-156).
The Family of David E. Lilienthal. Photograph, gelatin silver print, of David E. Lilienthal by Arnold Newman (T/NPG.88.230.91).
John Manship. Oil on canvas portrait of Paul Manship by John Manship (NPG. 89.53).
Elizabeth Nicole McMartin. Unpublished portrait of Robert Kennedy for TIME Magazine (1965) by Robert Vickrey.
Vincent and Sheila Downey Melzac. Bronze bust portrait of George Bush (NPG. 89.85)
G. Joseph Minetti and Tierney Minetti Grinavic. Oil on canvas portrait of Joseph McCarthy by Ila M. Junod (NPG.89.42).
Mary Ryan Gallery. Lithographic crayon drawing of William Jennings Bryan by Hugo Gellert (NPG.89.62).
Time Inc. One hundred and fifteen pieces of original artwork for TIME Magazine covers.
Miriam Troop. Pencil drawing of Ellsworth Bunker by Miriam Troop (T/NPG.88.215.94); six drawings of Joseph Hirshhorn by Miriam Troop (S/NPG.89.37.1-6).
William Varieka. Watercolor on paper portrait of Thomas Seir Cummings by Augustus Earle (NPG.89.65) (partial gift).
Scott Vickrey. Unpublished portrait for TIME Magazine of Roger Maris (1961) by Robert Vickrey.
Wendy Carolyn Vickrey and Paul Muenzinger. Unpublished portrait for TIME Magazine of John F. Kennedy (circa 1959) by Robert Vickrey.
Donald Vogler. Lithograph of Peggy Bacon by Alexander Brook (T/NPG.88.214.97).
Virginia M. Zabriskie. Photograph, gelatin silver print, of Henry Miller by Man Ray (T/NPG.88.231.90); photograph, gelatin silver print, of Gloria Swanson by Cecil Beaton (T/NPG.88.232.93).

<<<Page: 416>>>

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE Donors to the Collection
Carol, Augie, and Pat Daum. Twenty-four Christmas tree ornaments; beads.
Betsy Kimball Dempsey. Eighty Christmas tree ornaments; carousel figurines.
Barbara Todd Kennedy. Five watercolor paintings of orchids. Debbie Prots. One hundred Christmas tree ornaments; baskets.
Ruth Reetz and Marilee McNeilus. Two hundred and fifty-five Christmas tree ornaments; sea shells.
Bess Smith. Two hundred and twelve Christmas tree ornaments; Battenberg lace.
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS Donors to the Collection
Anibal Alvarado. Puerto Rican quiro made from a squash gourd.
Blue Star Tipi. Sioux tipi made of buffalo hide and poles.
Mrs. Donald Gregg, wife of Ambassador to Korea. Collection of old Burmese recordings.
Emilia Mau'ia. Samoan fine mat made from lauhala (pandanus fronds).
Nydia Rios de Colon. Puerto Rican drinking bowl made from a squash gourd.
SMITHSONIAN FURNISHINGS COLLECTION Donors to the Collection Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Raport. Pair of Renaissance Revival side chairs;
Baltimore; 1883 (SI.89.35 & 36). Richard E. Stamm. Chandelier; cast iron; oil burning; Meriden Ct.; ca. 1871
(89'.37)s Miss Esther A. Manion. Four Rococo Revival side chairs; American; ca.1860 @89E50'3-53):

<<<Page: 417>>>

Donors of In-Kind Support
Donors of In-Kind -Support OFFICE OF QUINCENTENARY PROGRAMS
University of Maryland at College Park, Department of Spanish and Portuguese. Printing, interpretation services for the symposium "Violence and Resistance in the Americas: The Legacy of Conquest,” and an associated dinner and lecture held at the University of Maryland.
INTERNATIONAL GALLERY Caribbean Festival Arts Exhibition
Air Jamaica. Fifty-eight complementary air tickets to artisans and scholars participating in ancillary programming and to prize winners in demographic survey.
Angostura International Ltd., U.S. Division. Beverages for opening night reception and display materials for exhibition.
Appleton Rum Company, Jamaica. Beverages for opening night reception and display materials for exhibition.
BWIA International. Complementary air tickets to scholars participating in Dialogue series.
Embassy of Jamaica. Facilitated access to government agencies and corporations who cooperated in exhibition.
Embassy of Trinidad and Tobago. Lent costume collection for opening night gala. A representative served on the community planning committee for the opening.
JAMPRO. Facilitated access to importers of Jamaican goods.
W. A. Taylor & Co. Tia Maria for Dialogue receptions.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK Donors of In-Kind Support
The Earle Palmer Brown Companies. Creation, design, and production of marketing materials for the National Zoo’s Centennial Society.
Dr. Jeffry Life. Extensive aquarium filter equipment for aquatic exhibits.
National Geographic Society. Assembled and installed TV cameras and recording equipment for giant panda pregnancy. Created a remote control system . for operating 24-hour monitoring of the panda.
SONY Corporation of America. Supplied on loan state-of-the-art TV monitoring and recording equipment for the panda pregnancy watch. Equipment was installed by the National Geographic Society.
Williams Whittle Associates, Inc. Wrote, designed and produced public service advertisements for local magazines, newspapers and bus placards that celebrate the Zoo’s Centennial. WWA also took charge of placing the

<<<Page: 418>>>

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM Donors of In-kind Support
Air France. International air transportation expenses for "L’Art de Vivre: Decorative Arts and Design in France, 1789-1989" exhibition.
Anheuser Busch, Inc., Underwriting of entertainment costs and forty cases of Michelob Dry beer for Junior Committtee benefit.
The Giorgio Armani Corporation. 200 samples of Armani Perfume for Junior Committee benefit.
British Airways. International air freight expenses for "Courts and Colonies: The William and Mary Style in Holland, England and America."
The Cascade Mountain Vineyards. Eight cases of white wine for Junior Committee benefit.
Andre Chenoue & Fils. Partial underwriting of insurance costs for "L’Art de Vivre" exhibition.
Foreign Office of the German Federal Republic. Contribution to insurance costs for the exhibition "Erich Mendelsohn: Architectural Drawings."
Frost Lighting Company. Special lighting designs for Junior Committee benefit.
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines. International air freight services for the exhibition "The Modern Dutch Poster: The First 50 Years, 1890-1940."
Kron Chocolatier. 500 samples of chocolate candy for Junior Committee benefit.
Lufthansa German Airlines. International air freight expenses for the exhibition "Erich Mendelsohn: Architectural Drawings."
Maidstone Importers. Two cases of Kahlua for Junior Committee benefit.
Dick Mendelsohn. 500 bottles of Saratoga mineral water for event.
Nell’s. Use of club facilities for Junior Committee event.
Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company. Ten cases of mixers for special events.
Piper Heidsieck Champagnes. Five cases of champagne for opening of "Courts and Colonies" exhibition.
Remy Martin, USA. Five cases of champagne for opening of "Courts and Colonies" exhibition.
The House of Seagram. One case of Chivas Regal for Junior Committee benefit.
Smithsonian Magazine. 500 magazines and 500 posters for Junior Committee benefit favors.
Sotheby’s. 500 shopping bags for Junior Committee benefit.
The Upper Crust. Partial cost of catering services for Junior Committee benefit.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART Donors of In-Kind Support
Standard Clay Mines. 350 pounds of grey claystone used in family workshops held in conjunction with “The Art of Paul Manship.”
Tiffany & Co. Engraving, printing and mailing of invitations for the preview reception for "Masterworks of Louis Comfort Tiffany.”
Vanity Fair Magazine. “Perpetual Motif: The Art of Man Ray” preview reception and dinner.

<<<Page: 419>>>

44 42
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS Donors of In-Kind Support
A.O. Smith/Thomas Sommerville Company. Four 50-gallon hot water heaters for festival foodways demonstrations.
Alfredo Siani. Ten herb plants for Caribbean progran.
Allied Plywood. One hundred sheets of plywood and hardboard for festival site construction.
Atebara Potato Chips Company, Inc. Sixteen pounds taro chips for festival hospitality.
B. F. Trappey's and Sons, Inc. Seven cases pickled products and hot sauce for French and French American festival participants.
Bacardi Import. Two cases white rum for Caribbean festival progran.
Barrons Lumber. Lumber for festival site construction.
Bong Brothers Coffee Company. Ten pounds Kona coffee for Hawai'i festival participants.
Botanical Gardens. Plants and herbs for festival programs.
Boudin King. Boudin sausage for festival participants and staff.
Cafe Bustelo. Two cases coffee for Caribbean participants.
Campbell Sales Co. One case pork and beans for Hawai'i program general store.
Captain Cook Coffee Company. Two pounds Kona coffee for Hawai'i program participants.
Carnation Company. Four cases evaporated milk for Hawai'i program general store.
Crop Genetics International. Twelve planters with sugarcane for Hawai'i festival progran.
Devlin Lumber. Lumber for festival site construction.
Dial Corporation. Five cases Vienna sausages for Hawai'i program general store.
Easterwood Rice Sales Corporation. Fifty pounds rice for Caribbean program foodways demonstrations.
Florida State Department of Agriculture, Division of Forestry and Consumer Services. Twenty-five coconut palms and palm fronds for Caribbean progran.
Florida Sugar Cane League. Twelve cases cut sugar cane for Caribbean progran.
Frito Lay of Hawai'i, Inc. Five cases Maui Chips for festival
hospitality.
Fruit and Spice Park. Cassava and malonga plants for Caribbean progran.
Fugya, Ltd. Two cases rice crackers for Hawai'i program general store.
G-Street Fabrics. Two bags of remnants for Caribbean festival program site.
George A. Hormel. Two cases of Spam for Hawai'i program general store.
Gould's Pumps. Two water pumps for Hawai'i program taro Joi'.
Granny Goose Foods, Inc. Nine cases taro chips for Hawai'i program participants.
Hawai'i Department of Agriculture, Marketing Division. Fresh tropical flowers for Hawai'i site and lei.
Hawai'i Pork Industry Association. Four pigs for Hawai'i progran.

<<<Page: 420>>>

Hawaiian Service, Inc. Two hundred fifty postcards for Hawai'i program general store.
Imperial Products. Four hundred thirty pounds of charcoal for Caribbean program foodways demonstrations.
J. Martinez and Company. Twenty pounds Kona coffee for Caribbean program participants.
Joseph E. Seagram and Sons, Inc. Four oak barrels for Hawai'i program general store and French program planters.
Kona Kai Farms. Twenty-five pounds Kona coffee beans for Hawai'i program participants.
Konriko. Fifty pounds rice for Caribbean program foodways demonstrations.
Kuai Kookies. Two cases macadamia nut cookies for Hawai'i program participants.
Lanai Company. Two cases pineapples for Hawai'i progran.
Maryland Pork Producers. Four pigs for Hawai'i progran.
Maui Chips. Fifty-eight cases Maui chips for festival hospitality.
Papaya Administrative Committee. One hundred papayas for Hawai'i progran.
Pier I Imports. Three hundred white paper lanterns for O'bon tower in Hawai'i progran.
Puukapu Farms. Two hundred jars of jam for Hawai'i progran.
Rudi's Foods, Inc. Pastries for festival crew.
Sioux Trading Post Inc. Five braids of sweetgrass for American Indian progran.
Southern Tropicals. Tropical plants and shipping for festival site.
Steel and Wire Company. Four hundred pounds drywall screws for festival site construction.
Sugar Association. Four hundred pounds of sugar for Caribbean program foodways demonstrations.
Tandy Leather Company. Cowhide for American Indian progran.
Vie de France Baking Corporation. Bread for festival participants.
William B. Riley Coffee Company. Seventy-five pounds Luzianne coffee for festival hospitality.
Yick Lung Company, Inc. Crack seed, assorted flavored chips and display rack for Hawai'i program general store and hospitality.
Donors of In-Kind Support
Carillon Importers Ltd. Beverages for two events during tenth international symposiun.
Monsieur Bernard de Nonancourt, chairman, Domaine Laurent Perrier. Champagne for tenth international symposium reception.
TOTAL Compagnie Francaise de Pétroles. Two first-class plane tickets, Paris to United States, for tenth international symposium.
TWA. Six first-class plane tickets, Paris to United States, for tenth international symposiun.

<<<Page: 421>>>

Appendix 8
Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1989
The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support the Institution through generous annual contributions. Such participation, in conjunction with special gifts from the members, enables the Institution to pursue specific projects and broader research, acquisition, preservation, and education efforts that might otherwise
not be possible.
The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the loyal and thoughtful support of the Contributing Membership. Sponsoring Members ($300) and Sustaining Members
($600) are listed separately.
Dr. J. Scott Abercrombie, Jr.
Hon. and Mrs. David C. Acheson
Mr. Davey L. Adams, Jr.
Mr. T. L. Albertson
Ms. Marcia Y. Almassy
Mr. Arthur Andraitis
Mr. G. J. Andrews
Dr. and Mrs. Henry D. Angelino Mr. Keith W. Antcliff
Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Antes Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz Ms. Barbara A. Aplanalp Hon. Anne L. Armstrong
Mrs. John Paul Austin
Mrs. Ray Awtrey
Ms. Margaret F. Babbitt
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Balfour Mr. Fred C. Ballman
Miss Mary J. Barbee
Mr. George L. Barbour
Mr. Michael Barczak
Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld
Mr. Jean L. Barker
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Barr Capt. Celia Barteau
Mrs. W. P. Battell
Mr. Jeffrey D. Bauman
Dr. David R. Bayless
Mr. William H. Beardsley Mr. Charles Beer
Ms. Marguerite Bender
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Benedict Mrs. Harriet F. Benson
Mr. James H. Berkson
Mr. John A. Bernard
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett Mr. Harry M. Bickford
Dr. Charles E. Bickham, Jr.
Mr. Anthony P Biemans
Mr. William S. Birdseye
Miss Eliza H. Bishop
Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler
Mrs. Hill Blackett
Ms. Alexandra Blackhurst
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Black Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg Hon. Lindy Boggs
Hon. and Mrs. Edward P. Boland Ms. Jane A. Boorman
Mr. Clifton W. Boots
Dr. Antonio Bosch
. and Mrs. William G. Bowen . and Mrs. Mitchell T. Bowie . George C.W. Bowles
s. Constance T. Boyd
and Mrs. Jay M. Boyd
and Mrs. Robert C. Braden and Mrs. Robert A. Brechler
and Mrs. Karl K. Breit
and Mrs. John F. Breyer, Jr. and Mrs. Clemens B. Bribitzer s. Arlene A. Brown
Patricia L. Brown
Steven Brummel
and Mrs. Gerard E. Brundige William H. Buchanan Sheldon W. Buck
and Mrs. Frederick P. Burgee n. Warren E. Burger
Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Bush
Mr. R L Butler, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Anderson Carter Mr. John J. Cashmire
Hon. Elford A Cederberg
and Mrs. Robert C. Breckenridge

<<<Page: 422>>>

Ms. Patricia Chamblin
Mr. Harvey Chapin
Mr. Harry R. Charles, Jr.
Mrs. Harold W. Cheel Mr..and Mrs. Everett N. Ciccone Mrs. Charles S. Clark
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Clark Mr. and Mrs. Julius Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Francis X. Coleman, Jr. Miss Vivian G. Conklin
Hon. and Mrs. Silvio O. Conte Mr. Mark N. Cookingham
Mr. Mark E. Cooper
Mr. Dallas M. Coors
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Cornelius Mrs. Louis Corson
and Mrs. Ralph J. Coselli
. Curtis W. Cox
and Mrs. Earle M. Craig, Jr. Joyce Creamer
and Mrs. Geoffrey Creede
. Eugene E. Crockett
. Robert D. Cunningham
. J. G. Cutler
Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis Mrs. Jerry R. Davis
Mr. John E. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Gregory W. Dean Mr. Mel L. Decker
Mr. James L. Deegan
Ms. Martha J. Deem
Ms. Lois M. Delaney
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Dellheim Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio
Ms. Danna Denning
Mr. Geert M Deprest
Mr. Marquise Desurian
Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson
Mr. Douglas Dillon
Mrs. Charles G. Dodge
Mr. N.L. Doligalski
Mrs. David Donovan
Mr. Karl Douma
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage Mr. and Mrs. David C. Dressler Ms. Imogene S. Driscoll
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Drummeter, Jr. Ms. Joanne E. Dumene
Dr. Lucia J. Dunham
Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr. Mr. Robert Edelmann
Mr. Peter D. Ehrenhaft
Miss Babs Eisman
Mr. and Mrs. Bart M. Eisner
Mr. F. H. Ellenberger
Mr. and Mrs. George T. Elmore Col. Charles O. Eshelman
Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein
Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr. CMDR and Mrs. Thomas E. Fahy Rev. Msgr M.F. Farina
Mrs. Ernest R. Feidler
Dr. and Mrs. Robert Feinberg Col. J. J. Felmley
Mr. Albert B. Ferguson
Nicholas M. Ferriter
Mr. James George Fidler
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Fisher, III Mr. Gordon J. Flesch
Ms. Ellen L. Fogle
LtCol. William J. Foody
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Foster Thiry Foundation
Mr. Benjamen Frank
Mr. Cary J. Frieze
Hon. J. William Fulbright
Capt. and Mrs. J. E. Galloway Mr. and Mrs. Talal H. Gama
Mr. Frank L. Gambosh
Hon. E. J. Garn
Miss Helen W. Giacobine
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Gibian Dr. and Mrs. Leonard M. Glassman Dr. Louis Gluck
Hon. Robert F. Goheen
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Goldman Col. and Mrs. Julius Goldstein Hon. and Mrs. Barry Goldwater Mrs. Seabury S. Gould, IV
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen H. Grant Mrs. Earle Gray
Ms. Ruth C. Greenberg
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green
Dr. and Mrs. Crawford Greenewalt Mr. Regis A. Greenwood
Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg
Mrs. Florence L. Gussman
Dr. Lee P. Haacker
and Mrs. Frederick J. Haas Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr. Allen R. Halper
and Mrs. Kingsley W. Hamilton . Morella R. Hansen
. Kurtz M. Hanson
and Mrs. Hardy Hargreaves and Mrs. William Harmon
. Irving B. Harris
. Leslie S. Harrold

<<<Page: 423>>>

Hon. and Mrs. Parker T. Hart Dr. Caryl P. Haskins ©
Harold. Haverty
Mones E. Hawley
and Mrs. John Heard
and Mrs. David R. Heebner and Mrs. Felder F: Heflin and Mrs. Robert M. Henry and Mrs. John Dean Herman William Herring
A.Leon Higginbotham, Jr. and Mrs. William J. Hines and Mrs. Robert M. Hinton James M Hobbins
and Mrs. John Hodges William P. Holcombe
and Mrs. Gregory Hopfer and Mrs. George C. Hudspeth . W. C. Huffman
Richard H. Hulit
s. Carlisle H Humelsine
Jack B. Humphries
Albert S. Hunt, Jr.
s. Elizabeth L. Hunter
and Mrs. William H. Hunter and Mrs. J. C. Irby
and Mrs. N. S. Irey Stephen D. Ishmael Reinhardt H. Jahn
Axel Jelstrup
and Mrs. David D. Johnson Ernest S. Johnston
John H. Johnston
and Mrs. Richard E. Jones and Mrs. Samuel C. Jones Robert M. Joyce
Bernard Karr
and Mrs. Joseph A. Kayatta Phyllis Kayten
and Mrs. Kenneth E. Kerle s. Juliet F. Kidney
Samuel C. Kincheloe Stephen King
William W. King
and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer Kirby Kirksey
Karl D. Klauck
James M. Kline
John W. Know!es
Janet Anastacia Krombar Otto Kruse
Cc. E. Kunkel
Dr. M. Kuppusami
Miss Martha Ladd
Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig Mr. William R. Lamb
Mr. Ms. Mr. Dr. Mr.
and Mrs. Robert H. Lando Agatha Larson and Mrs. John K. Laws and Mrs. Jack M. Layton Sperry Lea
Miss A. K. Lee
Ms. Mr.
Mrs. Mrs. . Edmund W. Littlefield . Robert J. Lockridge
rr QO
Hon. Hon.
Edith A. Lehner
and Mrs. Elmore Leonard Lawrence S. Lesser Eunice K. Lipkowitz
and Mrs. Walter M. Loeffler Ursula G. Lohmann
and Mrs. H. M. Love
and Mrs. Schuyler Lowe
and Mrs. Jack Ludwick
John E. Lutz, II
and Mrs. Ronald P. Lynch and Mrs. Mitchell S. Magid Helen J. Malmstead
E. Mandac
and Mrs. Harry Mandil
Jack Mark
and Mrs. R. A. Marmet Robert A. Marmon
and Mrs. John F. Marshall, Jr. R. N. Marshall
Michael L. Martin
and Mrs. Ernest T. Mashiyama
ol. and Mrs. Glenn W. Mayer
Marzell Mayr
and Mrs. Gordon W. McBride W.W. McCalla
Donald E. McCallister
E. J. McCormack, Jr.
Jack H. McCreery
W. C. McCrone
and Mrs. John S. McDaniel, Jr. Barnabas McHenry
Martha McLaughlin
and Mrs. John D. McLean James A. McNeese
and Mrs. Benjamin T. Meintzer, Sr. and Mrs. Robert S. Melville Rose Menz
Vincent Mercurio
Ida C. Merriam
Paul D. Meyer
Carla Michaels
and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone Edith J. Miller
. and Mrs. James E. Miller
Warren G. Miller Norman Y. Mineta William E. Minshall

<<<Page: 424>>>

Ms. Laura A. Mitchell
Mr. J. B. Montgomery
Dr. Robert H. Moore
Mrs. Ann K. Morales
Dr. Edwin E. Morey
Hon. Robert B. Morgan
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Morison Hon. and Mrs. Frank E. Moss Hon. Daniel P. Moynihan
Mr. and Mrs. James Mulshine _Miss Janet H. Murray
John M. Murray
Robert L. Nace
Robert L. Neff
and Mrs. Jack R. Newman Scott Newton
Robert W. Ney
and Mrs. Henry Nickel and Mrs. Richard A. Niles and Mrs. Roger A. Nitto Karl G. Nowak
. Terry A. Obrien
CMDR Lester E. Ogilvy
Mrs. Alfred J. Olmo
Mrs. John Omaster
Mrs. Leah H. Owen
Mr. and Mrs. David T. Parry Dr. J. D. Patterson
Mr. William R. Patterson
Hon. Claiborne Pell
Mr. Craig Abbott Pendergast Mr. J. Roy Pennell, Jr.
Mrs. Shelley Perper
Miss Jacqueline Perry
Mrs. Harold S. Pettit
Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Pfeiffer Dr. Ian R. Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Picken Mr. J. Pierce
Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Pitts Mrs. John N. Plakias
Dr. Marjorie P. Pollack
Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor Mr. H. Posner, Jr.
Mrs. Kazuko K. Price
Mr. and Mrs. Melville J. Price Hon. and Mrs. J. Danforth Quayle Mr. and Mrs. Charles Anton Rademaker Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan Mr. and Mrs. Patrick H. Reagan Ms. Nina Belle Redditt
Mr. Philip D. Reed, Jr.
Mr. John C. Reel
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Reese Ms. Faith Rees
Mrs. Charlotte Rehberg
Hon. William H. Rehnquist
Mr. and Mrs. J. Donald Reilly Mr. Frank M. Reynolds
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Richards Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Richards Mr. William W. Richardson
s. Ashley Ridgway
Mrs. Carlyn Ring
Miss Jean Roberts
Ms. Mary M. Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Robeson, Jr. Mr. L. A. Roepcke
Mrs. Priscilla B. Rogers
Mr. Don Rolf
Mr. Gary D. Rosch
Ms. J.S. Rose
Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Rowe
Mrs. Lois B. Rowland
Mrs. William E. Royer
Ms. Marcia Rubenstein
Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo
Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr.
Hon. James R. Sasser
Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr. Hon. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer and Mrs. Douglas A. Schiffman and Mrs. H. L. Schmelzer _and Mrs. Charles H. Schreyer Harold A. Schwartz
James J. Scott
and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers and Mrs. Harold A. Serr and Mrs. Joseph E. Seubert and Mrs. Ernest R Seymour Philip V. Sheehan
. W. Mason Shehan
and Mrs. Gerard E. Shelton F. J. Sherwood
Lynne Sherwood
Theodore J. Shively
and Mrs. Clyde E. Shorey George B. Shott
s. Laura Devine Shown
Dana H. Shultz
M. L. Sibley
and Mrs. Warren Sichel
Mrs. Manley H. Simons
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond A. Skeehan and Mrs. Gerald Slawecki Dr. Harvey C. Slocum, Jr.
Mrs. Bernice Roe Smith
. Charles E. Smith
. Frank O. Smith
. W. Y. Smith
. and Mrs. Adolphe B. Smoat . Patrick Snead

<<<Page: 425>>>

and Mrs. Richard B. Wallace and Mrs. Frank S. Walters
Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Soxman Mrs. Roger Squire
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Stanton . F. B. Warder
Mr. R. N. Stefan Joe W. Ward
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens P. Devers Weaver
Mr. Leslie Stevens Mrs. Sylvia B. Weaver
Mr. Joseph T. J. Stewart Mr. V. Phillips Weaver
Mr. and Mrs. William O. Stewart Hon. and Mrs. James E. Webb Dr. L. Dow Strader, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. John F. Weersing Mr. Jeffrey Sturgess Mr. and Mrs. Emil P. Weilbacher, Jr. Mr. Harris M. Sullivan Mr. J. R. Weiss
Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger Ms. Katherine E Welsh
Mr. David A. Sutherlund Mr. and Mrs. Irwin H. Wensink Mr. Louis W. Swann, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Western Ms. Mary Swanson Ms. Adelia C. Wheeler Mrs. Phelps H. Swift Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Wherley Mr. Paul C. Symmons Col. and Mrs. Grover C. White, Jr. Mr. Thomas P. Teenor Dr. John P. Whiteley
Mr. Allen D. Thomas Ms. Rita L. White
Ms. Arlene K. Thomashow Mrs. B. A. Whitmarsh
Mrs. B. W. Thoron Hon. Jamie L. Whitten
Mr. Stephen Tilton Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson, Jr. Mr. George S. Trees, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox Mr. and Mrs. Donald O. Tucker Mr. J. Reid Williamson
Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker Ms. Pauline E. Williman
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Turner, III Mrs. John M. Willits
Mr. David S. Turner Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner Mrs. Jean A. Twitchell Mr. and Mrs. John L. Wilson Mr. and Mrs. John A. Ulrich Mrs. Harriet L. Wilt
Mr. Leroy J. Vanderwende Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff
Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Vansant, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Wolf Dr. William C. Van Arsdel, III Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley
Mr. Raoul M. Verhagen Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz
Ms. Alice B. Vincilione Hon. Sidney R. Yates
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis C. Wachs Dr. and Mrs. M. L. Zeigler, Jr. Mr. George W. Walburn Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Zitter Mr. Theodore H. N. Wales

<<<Page: 426>>>

Mr. David E. Aaronson
Mr. and Mrs. Bytle M. Abbin Col. and Mrs. James D. Adams Dr. Samuel W. Adams
Mr. E.A. Adomat
Mrs. Carolyn Agger-Fortas
Ms. Doris D. Albert
Mr. P. Albiez
Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Alexander, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Alexander Mrs. Lynne L. Alfieri
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Allbert Mr. Burton O. Allen
Mr. Charles D. Allen
Mr. Ethan Allen
Ms. Katherine F. Allen
Mr. Robert H. Allen
Dr. and Mrs. Robert M. Allen Mr. Steven J. Allen
Mr. Billy D. Allison
Mrs. Carolyn Alper
Mr. and Mrs. Lambert E. Althaver Mr. and Mrs. Donald F. Ames Mr. Douglas C. Ammon
Mr. Clifford H. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson Ms. Leslie Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Paul B. Anderson Mr. Frederick F. Andrews
Dr. George C. Anison
Ms. Rose C. Anthony
Ms. Josephine G. Antolik
Miss Marcia Ann Appel
Mr. E. J. Archbold
Mr. Paul A. Archer
Mr. Earl S. Archibald
Miss Marie G. Argana
William D. Armstrong
Helen J. Arthur-Dunn
J. Ashman, Jr.
and Mrs. C.M. Ashton
and Mrs. W.S. Atherton Jean M. Auel
s. Francis Austin
Imogen E. Averett
and Mrs. Donald G. Avery and Mrs. William I. Bacchus and Mrs. Norman G. Bach Gordon N. Backlund
W.E. Badenhausen, Jr.
and Mrs. David A. Baerncopf and Mrs. C.W. Bahan
. Charles S. Bailey
s. Henry W. Baird
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Baker Mrs. Virginia B. Baker
Ms. Velma N. Baldwin
Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Ball, Jr. Dr. and Mrs. Mark E. Ballinger Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Ball
Mr. and Mrs. George R. Ballowe Capt. and Mrs. Stuart M. Ball Farmers State Bank
A. F. Banks
Walter Baranowski
and Mrs. Dwight H. Barnes . Julian L. Barnett
Gene Baroni
Andrew Barr
and Mrs. E. W. Barrett
and Mrs. John W. Barrow and Mrs. Terrence J. Barry and Mrs. Art Bartlett Jordan J. Baruch
and Mrs. Charles W. Bash Gene R. Bales
and Mrs. W. H. Batie
and Mrs. Myron C. Baum Robert D. Baynes
and Mrs. Anthony J. Bazza Barbara Purse Beach
. Lloyd P. Beachy
John W. Bean
R. Gifford Beaton
and Mrs. John M. Beaulieu John R. Beaver
and Mrs. Allan Beckanstin Eugene H. Beck
Deanna Belcher
Lawrence P. Belden
and Mrs. Jack Bender
Mrs. Linda B. Bender
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Benham Dr. and Mrs. Richard W. Benjamin Mr. Gregory Benkovic
Amb. and Mrs. W. Tapley Bennett, Jr. Mrs. Iona Benson
Ms. Marie Bergmann
Dr. and Mrs. S. J. Berlin
Dr. Harold Berman
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Bermant Mr. and Mrs. Charles P. Berney Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer
Mrs. Carol P. Berry
Dr. William R. Bertelsen
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Betz Mr. and Mrs. Samuel P. Beverlin Mr. Eugene J. Bevers
Dr. David Bick

<<<Page: 427>>>

Mr. Joseph B. Bidwell
Mr. Bruce Biggs °
Mr. Howard M. Bingham
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander F. Black Mrs. V. Blaine
Hon. and Mrs. Warren E. Blair Ms. Frances G. Blank
Mr. James Blaser
Mrs. Edna F. Blum
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon H. Blume Ms. Enola V. Bode
Mr. David Bodycombe
Mrs. Curtis C. Bogart
Dr. George P. Bogumill
Dr. Cary W. Booz
Mr. and Mrs. John Boppart
Ms. Jean B. Bort
Mr. Robert M. Bosma
Mrs. T. Botsford
Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini
Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie
Dr. and Mrs. Maxwell Boverman Mr. and Mrs. Alton Boyer
Dr. Norman Boyer
Ms. Eugenie R. Bradford
Mrs. Anna E. Bradley
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Bramsen Dr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Branda Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Brandow Mr. James Brannan
Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantley Mrs. F. E. Brantley
Mr. Willam E. Braunig
Mr. William W. Bray
Mrs. S. Brazil
and Mrs. Roy Bremerman, Jr. and Mrs. Gene C. Brewer and Mrs. Lester L. Brewer and Mrs. Stephen B. Brickel Robert L. Bridges
s. Evelyn P. Brier
Linford L. Bright
and Mrs. Allan C. Brittle and Mrs. Ronald C. Britt Richard Brockman
James E. Brodhacker
and Mrs. George H. Brodie Jeffrey R. Broido
Randall Brooks
and Mrs. John A. Bross Walter C. Brower
Albert Brown
Edith Brown
and Mrs. Glen F. Brown and Mrs. Harry A. Brown, II
. L. Brown
Lawrence D. Brown
and Mrs. Robert Brown
and Mrs. Ronald Brown
and Mrs. E. Edward Bruce Deborah C. Brudno
Warren Brule
s. Laurence Brunswick
Dick Brush
and Mrs. William L. Bryan and Mrs. Henry Bryndza
and Mrs. H. Paul Buckingham . John E. Buckley
DR C. L. Buechler
Steven A. Buehler
Jeanne Bugg
Robert F. Bulens
and Mrs. William B Burdeshaw R.J. Burger
. and Mrs. James A. Burkart Mes. George R. Burkhardt
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Burkhardt Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks Mrs. Paul I. Burman
Mrs. Diantha R. Burnett
Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Burnham
Dr. and Mrs. James S. Burnham LtCol. and Mrs. Robert M. Burnham Mrs. Laura W. Burr
Mr. and Mrs. Philip S. Burr
Miss Edna-Lea Burruss
Mrs. Charles E. Burt
Mr. and Mrs. Glenn F. Burton Miss Martha E. Burton
Mr. T. G. Burzawa
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Bush LtCol. Howard W. Bushey, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. James T. Bush
Dr. and Mrs. James H. Butler
Mr. Buckley M. Byers
Mr. W. Byrnes
S. A. Cacciatore
Dr. and Mrs. Gary W. Cage
Mr. and Mrs. William M. Cahn, Jr. Ms. M. E. Caldwell
Mr. Donald E. Callahan
Mrs. F. G. Cameron
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Draper Campbell Mr. John E. Cannaday Miss Helen R. Cannon Mr. Philip L. Cantelon Mr. Frank L. Carey, Jr. Mr. C. G. Carey
Mrs. Phyllis H. Carey Dr. John M. Carper
Jee: taurine e:

<<<Page: 428>>>

Mr. Robert L. Carrel Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. Colburn Ms. Christine K. Carrico Mr. and Mrs. T. Clyde Collins, Jr. Ms. Martha A. Carr, Sr. Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. Collyer Ms. Cindi L. Carroll Mr. Hugh F. Colvin
Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Carroll Mr. William L. Coman
Mr. and Mrs. Waller Carson, Jr. Miss Bertita E. Compton
Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten Mrs. Herman Cone, Jr.
Col. and Mrs. Douglas H. Carter Mrs. Ethel Conlisk
Mrs. James B. Cartwright Mr. Steven S. Conner
Mr. Victor Cascella Mr. Thomas Conners
Mr. John A. Cashman Mr. H. R. Connick
Mr. Anthony Cassella Dr. and Mrs. Philip Connolly Ms. Renata Cathou Mrs. Camille L. Cook
Dr. Charlotte Catz Mr. and Mrs. Harold Cookson Mr. and Mrs. James E. Caudill Mr. Vernon P. Cooley
Mr. B. R. Cayward Mrs. Carolyn Coon
Ms. Colleen M. Chalker Mr. and Mrs. James F. Cooney, Jr. Dr. M.H. Chamberlain Mr. and Mrs. James Franklin Cooper, Sr. Dr. Ward A Chamers Ms. Janet B. Cooper
Mr. Stephen Chapman Mr. John N. Cooper
Dr. Samuel Charache Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Coppock Ms. Cynthia M Chase Mr. Henry G. Corey
Mr. and Mrs. Boris E. Cherney Dr. W. G. Corey
Mr. Harry Chernoff Mr. and Mrs. George L. Cornell Mr. and Mrs. Steven D. Cherry Mr. M.C. Cornell
Dr. Joseph Cheung ; Dr. ‘and Mrs. Walter H. Corson Mrs. Bernard P. Chewning Mr. and Mrs. John J. Cotellese Ms. Allene R. Chiesman Mr. and Mrs. C. Cotteleer
Mrs. Frederick R. Childs Miss Jo Ann Cowan
Mr. John Childs Dr. Norman J Cowen
Mr. Wah G. Chin Miss Mary L. Cox
Miss Jean M. Chisholm Mr. and Mrs. David M. Crabtree Mrs. Betty Sams Christian Mrs. Linnea R. Crawford
Mr. Lawrence Chubet Mr. Wilmer H. Cressman
Mr. Roy T. Church Mrs. James Crittenden
Mr. John C. Cini Mrs. C. D. Crocker
Mr. Ronald C. Cissell Mr. and Mrs. Theodore R. Crom Ms. Angelica L. Clagett Ms. Kathryn M. Crossgrove
Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett Mrs. Richard S. Cross
Mr. George Clark Mr. David Crow
Mr. H. Lawrence Clark Mr. and Mrs. Lawson Crowe
Mr. and Mrs. Le Roy D. Claycomb Mr. Cornelius J. Crowley
Mr. Fred Clements Mr. Gilbert W. Cullen
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Clement Mr. Robert L. Cummings
Mr. B. F. Cloud Mr. Charles S. Curran
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Coates Mrs. George H. Curran
Capt. and Mrs. Richard Cobb Mr. John Joseph Curtin
Mr. William H. Cochrane Mrs. Charles B. Cushwa, Jr.
Mrs. Helen Codding Ms. Ida D. Cuthbertson
Mr. Jack M. Coe Mr. Roy Cutler
Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Coffman Mrs. Richard M. Cutts
Ms. Linda L. Cogswell Miss Margaret M. Dahm
Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Cohan Mr. Kevin B. Dalton
Mrs. Helen H. Cohen Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Dalton Mr. and Mrs. Andrew L Colb Mr. and Mrs. Robert John Daniels

<<<Page: 429>>>

Ms. Ethel E. Danzansky
Friar Felix Daprato
Mr. B. J. Daroga
Mrs. Leonore Daschbach
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Dashiell Mr. Robert Davidson
Mrs. A. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Barry C. Davis Mr. John F. Davis
Mr. Robert Davis
Ms. Annette Dawson
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Dazzo, Sr. Mr. and Mrs. William J. Dean Mr. and Mrs. Harold D. Decker
Mrs. Thomas Dedomenico Atty Danielle DeFranco
Mr. Marvin Dekelboum
Mrs. G. F. Dekeyser
Capt. and Mrs. Victor Delano Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Deming Dr. Hugh F. Demorest
Mr. John Robert Denny
Mrs. N. J. Detor
Mrs. Mary J. Deutschbein Mr. G.W. Devoe
Mrs. T. T. Dewolf
Ms. Ruth E. Dewton
Dr. and Mrs. Paul F. Dickens, Jr.
Mrs. Robert L. Dick
Mr. Robert Dickstein
Mr. J. E. Diegelman
Mr. and Mrs. James Dietz Mr. T. A. Dietz
Dr. Juliet C. Diller
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon Mr. Keith A. Dobbins
Mrs. Walter W. Doescher Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Dolstra Ms. Joan Domike
Mr. Henry T Donahoe
Mrs. Lloyd Donant
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Doragh Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Doran Dr. William H L Dornette Mr. and Mrs. Dennis E. Dorsch Mrs. Joyce N. Dortch
Mr. Joseph F. Douglas
Mr. Richard G. Doyen
Mrs. Philip Drinker
Mr. and Mrs. Irenee Du Pont, Jr.
Mr. Russell F. Dubes
Mr. William Dubit
Mr. and Mrs. David A. Duff Mr. and Mrs. William E. Duke Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Duncan
bh Pp b
Mr. J.F. Dunwiddie
Mr. Wayne Durbin
Dr. and Mrs. Vernon J. Dwyer
Ms. Ann L. Dyke
Mrs. Sarah M. Dyson
Mr. William P. Eason
Mrs. J. T. Eaton
Mrs. Greta Eckert
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Edwards
Mrs. Robert G. Edwards
Mr. Paul Ehrenfest
Mrs. Alvin Q. Ebrlich
Mr. Joel Eisenberg
Mrs. C. J. Eiwen
Mr. Robert B. Eldridge
Mr. Joseph H. Ellinwood
Mr. and Mrs. V.L. Elliott
Mr. and Mrs. Paul G. Ellis
Mr. Ward Ellis
Mr. and Mrs. Michael V. Elsberry . John P. Elterich
. and Mrs. William L.R. Emmet,
Mr. Bernard Engel
Mr. and Mrs. Richard England Mrs. Jane M. Epstine
Mr. Richard Ertenberg
Mr. A. C. Escalle
Mrs. Harold Eskew
Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Estridge Mr. Louis Euster
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Evans, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Bill G. Evans Mr. Robley D. Evans
Miss Shirley M. Evans
Mr. W. M. Evans
Ms. Rose Ann Farace
Mr. Francis W. Farley
Mr. Bernard Farnen
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Farquhar Ms. Marilyn Farrand
Mrs. Roland C. Fegan
Mr. J Feirman
Mr. and Mrs. John Ferguson Mrs. Rugeley Ferguson
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Ferguson Rev. H. A. Ferrell
Mr. Nathan L. Ferris
Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden Dr. and Mrs. Max Fine
Ms. Janet A. Fink
Mrs. William W. Finley
Mr. Ordell Fipps
Mrs. Mary M. Fisher
Mr. Gordon Fish
Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty

<<<Page: 430>>>

Ruth C. Flanagan
and Mrs. Martin Fleit Gerold L. Fleming
Ted Flora
Howard M. Flournoy Olivia Page Floyd
and Mrs. Paul Flum Carol C. Foley
Albert A. Folop
and Mrs. Samuel C. Ford s. Russell Fortune, Jr.
and Mrs. Robert L Fox and Mrs. Jon David Francis and Mrs. William F. Franck s. Brantley Vernon Frank Stephen P. Frazier
John K. Freeman
Robert G. Freeman
. Mary M. Free
. Marian M. Freese
. Donald B. French
. and Mrs. John P. Frestel, Jr. . Andrew L. Frey
. and Mrs. T.E. Frey
. and Mrs. Carl Friddle Mrs. B. Mark Fried
Mrs. Charlton Friedberg
Mrs. Charlton Friedberg
Mrs. L. Louise Fried
Ms. Virginia Friend
Mr. Art Frink
LCDR Edward Fritz
G. Michael Frumess Frederick A. Fry
Warren Fugate
. Donald H. Fuhs
and Mrs. A. E. Fuller
P. Buller
Marion H. Furr
and Mrs. Edward E. Gahres Vernon M. Gale
Maries H. Galitzki
. F. A. Gallagher
. Thomas J. Galligan, Jr.
. Ray Gammon
. Lillian T. Garber
Mr. Clement E. Gardiner
Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm O. Garfink Mrs. Joy Garney
Mrs. Margaret H. Gauger
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Gauthier Miss Olga M. Gazda
Mrs. Anita R. Geanakos
Mr. and Mrs. Walter F. Geisinger
and Mrs. R. Don Gambrell, Jr.
B. Geismar
. and Mrs. Daniel D. Geller
. Peter L. Geller
Byron A. Genner, III
. Gerald T. Gentry
. and Mrs. Stanley Georges and Mrs. Arthur F. Gerding . and Mrs. Carl S. Gewirz RADM and Mrs. Ralph M. Ghormley Mr. A. Edward Giberti
Dr. and Mrs. David M. Gibson Miss Laurie M. Gibson
Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln J. Gilbert Mr. and Mrs. William W. Gilbert Mr. Wallace E. Giles
Mrs. Sara E. Gillis
Mrs. J. A. Gill
Dr. and Mrs. Paul H. Gilpatric Mr. and Mrs. Martin D Ginsburg Mrs. D. J. Gladwin
Mr. Ezra Glaser
Dr. Gary H. Glaser
Mr. Errol M. Glasser
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Gleim Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn
Sesesess
and Mrs. John B. Goering Paul N. Gohdes
and Mrs. Fred T. Goldberg Leslie H. Goldberg
and Mrs. Raymond R. Goldberg John Golden
B. Goldfarb
and Mrs. Eli Goldstein Larry L. Goldstein
Stuart N. Goodman
and Mrs. James F. Goodrich Lois R. Gordon
Kenneth P. Gorelick
Linda J. Gorham
Joel C. Gorick
James C. Gorman
Richard E. Gorozdos
O. J. Gouin, Jr.
and Mrs. William Gouldsbury James Gove
Kathryn R. Gover
and Mrs. George C. Graham S. Grandits
M.L. Oster Granite
. Harold D. Grant, Jr. LTGEN. and Mrs. Ernest Graves s. Mary Graves
Mr. and Mrs. Russell J. Graves

<<<Page: 431>>>

Mr. William F. Graves
Mr. and Mrs. Louis J... Grayson Mr. T. Greenawalt
Mrs. Dorothy Green
Mr. Donald Greene
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Green, II Dr. M. Jean Greenlaw
Miss Joanne T. Greenspun
Mr. Seymour D. Greenstone
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Greenwold Mrs. James T. Griffin
Mr. Donald O. Grimes, Jr.
Mr. William A. Grimes
Ms. Leslie A. Gross
Mrs. Helen Grossman
Mr. and Mrs. William P. Groves Mrs. Donald Gruhn
Ms. Marilyn L. Guerra
Mr. and Mrs. Victor W. Gumper Mrs. Helen W. Gunderson
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph I. Gurfein Mr. David L. Guthrie
Mr. Larry L. Haase
Mr. Marc Haas
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Haayen Mr. Charles P.-Haber
Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Hagemeyer
Mrs. Eloise Halliburton
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell L. Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Halpern
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Halsted
Mr. M Hamada
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M. Hamady Mr. Donald W. Hamer
Mr. Patrick L. Hames
Col. and Mrs. William T. Hamilton, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Hamman Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Hammock
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Hammond Mr. and Mrs. Ronald W. Hamner Mr. J. S. Handler
Mr. Norman G. Hansen
Mr. and Mrs. Walter E. Hansen Mr. and Mrs. Raleigh Hans]
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Hanson Mr. Charles C. Hansult
Mr. Edwin F. Harper
Dr. Robert A. Harper
Mrs. Lucy W. Harrell
Mr. C. J. Harrington Dr. John M. Harris, III
Mr. Christie Harris
Dr. Garry Harris
Mrs. E.T. Harrison
Col. and Mrs. L. P. Hart
Mr. Ernest B. Hartley
Ms. Janet W. Hartley
Mrs. Pauline Hart
Mrs. W. M. Harwood
Mr. James D. Hasbrouck
Mr. William H. Hastings
Ms. Catherine Hathaway
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Hauslohner Dr. and Mrs. Samuel B. Haveson Miss Virginia H. Havrilka
Dr. Jeffrey W. Hawkins
Mrs. Charles W. Hayes
Mr. Kenneth C. Healy
Miss Annabelle Heath
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony E. Hecht Ms. Linda Heckman
Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Hefele Ms. Constance H. Hefferan
Mr. A. L. Heinrich
. James W. Hellwege
. Deborah W. Hemenway
. and Mrs. Douglas B. Hendrick E.M. Hendrickson
. Willis M. Hengy
Ms. Ellen A. Hennessy
Miss Mildred Henninger
Robert A. Hennings
Karl F. Herd
and Mrs. Michael Herman Arnold L. Hespe
Cc. A. Hess
and Mrs. John C. Hester, Jr. and Mrs. Richard F. Hewett . Mary Jane Heyl
Mrs. Geraldine Hicks
Mrs. Laura E.. Hicks
Sssseés
Mr. William L. Higgins Mr. and Mrs. Edwin L. Hill Mrs. Elizabeth V. Hill Mr. Wendell T. Hill
Mr. Frederick Himes Miss Barbara N. Hines Mr. Charles W Hinkle Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson Mr. Joseph U. Hinshaw Mr. Miles L Hinsley
My. Karl V. Hirschmann Dr. S. R. Hobgood

<<<Page: 432>>>

Miss K. T. Hoffacker
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Hoffman Ms. Margaret M. Hoffman
Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Hogan BGEN E. P. Hoisington
Mr. Duncan A. Holaday
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond T. Holden Mr. and Mrs. A. Sidney Holderness, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hollander Capt. F.N. Holley
Mr. Milton C. Holloman
Mr. John W. Holloway
Mr. and Mrs. Franklin P. Holman Mr. Peter C Holmes
Mrs. Robert E. Holmgren
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Holsen Mrs. Richard W. Homer
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Honig
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hook
Mr. and Mrs. James P. Hope
Dr. and Mrs. Robert Hopkins
Ms. Ann Hopping
Mr. James N. Horne
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Horn Mr. John K. Hoskinson
Mrs. D. Howard
Mr. Robert Howard
Mrs. Phyllis Kern Howe
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Hudgins, IV Miss Nancy E. Hudson
Mrs. Hugo G. Huettig, Jr.
Mrs. Rosemarie J. Hughes
Evelyn L. Huisentruit
and Mrs. A. D. Hulings
. William R. Humphrey
E. C. Humphries
Frank Hunsicker
Emma Gade Hutaff
. Barbara A. Hutchinson
Capt. and Mrs. George Hutchinson Ms. Marjorie P. Hutchinson Judge Daniel H. Huyett, III RADM and Mrs. Walter D. E. Innis Shaw Investment
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Ireson
Mr. John E. Irons
Mr. George Irving
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin R. Isan Miss Anne M. Jacks
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Jackson Dr. Jay A. Jackson
Mr. Marlin L. Jacobs
Ms. Shirley Jacobs
Dr. John R. Jacoway
Mr. John M. Jacquemin
and Mrs. John Jaeschke
and Mrs. Jonathan Ravid Jaffe and Mrs. Sidney A. Jaffe Charlene James
Richard J. Jarzabek
and Mrs. J. Rukin Jelks, Jr. and Mrs. David G. Jennings and Mrs. Stifel W. Jens
J. J. Jeresek
and Mrs. David S. Jernigan Ludwig Jesselson
and Mrs. Harry A. Johns
. Alfred H. Johnson
Harald R. Johnson
Ray A. Johnson
Woodrow C. Johnson Alfred Jones
Brian L. Jones
Buell B. Jones
Donald E. Jones
James T. Jones
James E. Jones
and Mrs. John B. Jones, Jr. Robert T. Jones
Thomas O. Jones
“William J. Jones
Robert E Jordan
and Mrs. Michael Joseph
. Jean Joyner
and Mrs. Edward H. Judson . Forrest L. Junod
. Rosemary Bonar Kabel
. Melanie L. Kacho
. Edmund J. Kahn
. and Mrs. S. C. Kaim
. and Mrs. F. M. Kalenborn . John D. H. Kane
Ms. C. Parrish Kangiester
. Steven Kaplan
. and Mrs. Arnold Kaplin Mr. Emanuel Karadimos
Mr. Robert H. Karatz,sr.
Mrs. R. H. Karns
Dr. and Mrs. Richard A. Kaslow Mr. and Mrs. Jack Katz
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon T. Katz Mrs. James P. Keane
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert W Keech Ms. Sheila A. Keefe
Mr. and Mrs. K. A. Keener Mrs. Jane Simmons Keen
Mr. Robert Keller
Mr. Richard I. Kellogg
Mrs. J. E. Kemper
Mr. and Mrs. George P. Kendall, Jr.
ce) o:

<<<Page: 433>>>

Mr. and Mrs. David T. .Kenney Mrs. Anna Marie Kent
Mr. B. R. Kent
Col: Tilu Kera
Dr. and Mrs. Louis J. Kettel Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Keyes, Jr. Dr. H. Norman Key
Mr. W. Ben Kibler
Mr. and Mrs. John Kicak
Mr. Walter H. Kidd
Ms. Marjorie B. Kiewit
Dr. T.L. Kilgore, Jr.
Mrs. J. Killen
Mrs. Jeannette Kimmel
Mr. Edward J. King
Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby Mr. Harry L. Kirkman
Mr. K. M. Kirkpatrick
Ms. Susan L. Klaus
Mr. Kenneth W. Klein
Ms. Rebecca Klemm
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Kline Mr. L.S. Klotz
Mr. Robert Knapper
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald J. Knecht Mrs. J. K. Knee ; Mr. M. G. Knerr
Mrs. William Knight, Jr.
Ms. Teresa Knoester
Mrs. James H. Knowles
Ms. Janet V Koch
Eastman Kodak
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard R Kojm Col. George C. Konolige
Mr. Herbert J. Kopff
Mr. A. George Koplow
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin C. Korengold Dr. and Mrs. Ross Kory
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Kosciuszko
Mrs. Anna Kovasznay
Mr. G. D. Kovener
Mr. Charles R Kraus
Ms. Sandra R. Krawchuk
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Krebs, Jr. Mr. Irving Kreisberg
Ms. Gloria I. Kreisher
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Kremens Mr. J. J. Kriss
Miss Karen E. Krueger
Mrs. Leroy Krusi
Mr. John E. Kuenzl
Mr. Paul Kugel
Mr. David E. Kuhl
Dr. and Mrs. Max J. Kukler Mrs. William O. Kurtz, Jr.
Mr Mr Dr.
Mr. Mr. Mr. Ms.
co) 2
. and Mrs. Frank A. Ladd
s. Patraicia K. Lafferty
Robert M. Lambert
and Mrs. Edward L. Lammerding and Mrs. Emanuel Landau
James H. Landers, jr
Marilyn Brody Lane
. Gerald Langford
Mr Dr. Gilbert H. Lang Mr. Mr
Richard F. Langston
. Tom Lankenau
. and Mrs. John V. Lanterman and Mrs. Peter Larocca
. Susan B. Larsen
. Ray Lash
and Mrs. Francis H. Laube J. W. Laughlin
and Mrs. Louis F. Laun Denny Law
and Mrs. Noel Lawson
and Mrs. Donald W. Layden and Mrs. Jack Leach
and Mrs. Ronald E. Leach H. O. Leavitt
. Clinton W. Ledebur
iss Dorothy A. Lee
s. Florence J. Lee James A. Lee and Mrs. Jen P. Lee T. C. Lee
Edwin F. Legard
Ellen R. Leighton Jeanne Lemmer
Ethelynne H. Leonard
H Leonard
Walter A. Leonard
Daniel W. Leubecker Jan T. Leung Edgar L. Levenson and Mrs. William B. Levin, Jr. and Mrs. Michael Levitt s. I. Herbert Levy and Mrs. Baugh Lewis Calvin G. Lewis and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis Garry Lewis and Mrs. Alfred B. Lichtenstein and Mrs. Peter Liebesman and Mrs. Robert G. Liebhardt James R. Lightfoot
S. Lindelof . Wilbur Loren Lindholm
Miss Jane T. Lingo
Mr Mr
. and Mrs. Duard C. Linn . and Mrs. Rodney C. Linton

<<<Page: 434>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Lipsett Mr. Robert S. Lipsey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List
Mr. and Mrs. William O. Lively Mrs. James Lloyd
‘Mr. C. Henry Lockwood, II Mrs. Ethel Loeb
Dr. Arthur J. Loerzel
Mrs. Katherine V. Lofstrand
Mr. Richard D. Lombard
Mr. Walter H. Long, Jr.
Mrs. Earl H. Look
Col. and Mrs. Duarte A. Lopes Mr. Kenneth B. Lord
Dr. and Mrs. Norman Lord
Mr. Robert B. Love
Mr. Bart W. Lovins
Mrs. E. H. Lowther
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M. Lucas Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. Ludeman Mr. Remy H. Ludwig
Mr. and Mrs. Alan H. Lund
Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur A. Lunday Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Lund
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Luria
Mr. and Mrs. La Rue R. Lutkins Mr. and Mrs. John L. Luttrell iss Louise Lutz
Mr. and Mrs. Martin E. Lybecker Mr. and Mrs. Maurice B. Lynch
Mrs. William Lynch
Mr. Myles V. Lynk Miss I. T. Lynn
Ms. Catherine M. Maar Mrs. M. W. MacDermott Ms. Kathy MacDonald Mr. Neil R. MacDonald
Mr. and Mrs. Steven A. MacIntyre
Mr. James MacKinnon
Mrs. J. A. MacNabb
Ms. Ellen B. MacNeille
Mr. and Mrs. Rex A. Maddox Mr. Ralph K. Madway
Dr. Edward Majchrowicz
Dr. and Mrs. Leslie D. Major, Jr.
Ms. Susan Makara
Mr. and Mrs. Dayton S. Mak Mr. and Mrs. Peter L. Malkin Dr. and Mrs. Bernard M. Malloy Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes
Mrs. Robert Mannherz
Mr. E. Manuel Manning
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Mansius Mrs. A. Marcelle
Mr. Eugene A. March
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Margus Ms. C. S. Markson
Mr. Kenneth S. Marsh
Mr. George H. Marston
Mr. Robert C. Marston
Mr. Alfred S. Martin
Mrs. Mildred H. Martindale Dr. Diana Martin
Mr. and Mrs. Guy R. Martin
‘Mr. and Mrs. John Cephas Martin
Mr. M. S. Martin
Mr. and Mrs. Middleton A Martin Mr. Benjamin L. Marx, Jr. Miss Priscilla Mason
Dr. Robert B. Matheny
Mrs. Elbert G. Mathews
Dr. and Mrs. M. Mathews
Ms. Melissa Mathison
Mr. and Mrs. Larry Matre
Mr. Charles Matthews
Mr. Robert Mattox
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Z. Maudlin Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Maxey Mr. and Mrs. George B. Maxwell Miss Julia A. Maxwell
Mrs. R. B. Mayer
Mr. George D. Maynard, Jr. MGEN and Mrs. George Mayo, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Mayo
Dr. John E. Mazuzan, Jr.
Mr. James I. McAuliff
Mrs. Violet McCandlish
Dr. Jeane McCarthy
Mr. James D. McClary
Mr. Bruce McClintock
Dr. David C. McClure
Mrs. Anne B. McCourt
Dr. Catherine F. McCoy
Mr. Emmett F. McCoy
Mr. John O. McCracken
Mr. Coy F. McDaniel, Jr.
Mr. Dale E. McDaniel
J. McDonald
Mr. and Mrs. John T. McDonnell Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Samuel W. McGarvey
Dr. and Mrs. Morris G. McGee Ms. Nancy J. McGuinness
Mr. J. M. McGinnis
Mr. William P. McGloin
Mr. Richard McHale
Mr. John McIntosh
Dr. and Mrs. W. E. Mclntyte Mr. W. J. McKeel

<<<Page: 435>>>

Dr. J. W. McKibben _
Mr. and Mrs. Albert P. McKinney Mr. and Mrs. John H. McLaren Mr. Paul B. McMahon, Jr. Mrs. S. McMullen
Mr. W. Hugh McNaughton
Mr. W. C. McNeal
Mrs. W. J. McNeil
Mr. M. McNulty
Mr. R. V. McPherron
Mrs. Ruth R. McRae
Ms. Ann H. McShane
Miss C. McWilliams
and Mrs. David L. Mead James C. Meade
and Mrs. Thomas Mears
and Mrs. William S. Meehan Frank Meek, Jr.
s. Roberta V. Meek
onald F Mela
David L. Melvin
. Valere P. Menefee
Louis W. Menk
Leon A. Mensing
Bruce J Menzies
. William H. Meroney
John J. Meyer, III
and Mrs. Charles E. Meyer and Mrs. Samuel M. Meyers Mildred Middlekauff
and Mrs. Henry B. Middleton MDR and Mrs. R. J. Miles Grace Milgram
Lewis N. Miller, Jr.
Carroll L. Miller
Charles H. Miller
Harvey L. Miller
. and Mrs. John L. Miller and Mrs. L. Allen Miller Margaret A. Miller
and Mrs. Robert R Miller and Mrs. Stanley G. Miller and Mrs. Thomas C. Miller and Mrs. Michael H. Mishkind . and Mrs. Donald M. Mitchell . and Mrs. Robert O. Mitchell . Walter W. Mitchell
Mr. William H. Moesel
Mr. and Mrs. Leo Molinaro
Mr. R. W. Mompier
Mrs. Sarah D. Monk
Mr. M.R. Monroy
Dr. Carmen G. Montaner
Mr. Wilson M. Montero
sSSSESES
and Mrs. Wilbur T. Measley, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. H. Albert Montgomery Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Montgomery Mr. and Mrs. W.F. Montgomery Mrs. E. Moore
. Frederick A. Moore
. and Mrs. Richard H. Moore
. and Mrs. John H. Morava
Ms. Joyce Morgan
Mr. Shane Moriarity
Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Morley
Mrs. Blanche M. Morris
Ms. Firth Morris
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh M. Morris
Mr. J. C. Morris
Mr. J. C. Morris, Jr.
. Rosanna Morris . Arthur R. Morse, Jr. . Erik N. Mortensen Dr. P. Steven Mote RADM and Mr. Douglas F. Mow Mr. Douglas Muder Dr. and Mrs. Gary L. Mueller Ms. Sarah Mullady Mrs. Gail W. Munder Mr. Burnaby Munson Dr. and Mrs. John C. Munson Mr. Don Murdock Mr. and Mrs. James Murphy Ms. Sheila A. Murphy . Josephine L. Murray Gary A. Murrell E. H. Muschlitz Raymond R. Myslivy Raymond A. Naimoli George Nassauer David N. Neal and Mrs. Robert D. Neary Robert H. Neff Caterina K. Nelson George E. Nelson Andrew K. Ness Conley W. Ness and Mrs. Paul W. Neuenschwander and Mrs. Harry O. Neukomm John H. Newell tCol. Arthur Newton and Mrs. Kenneth E. Nicholl Patricia I. Nichols Orville F. Nielsen and Mrs. Earl W. Niles Paul H. Nitze and Mrs. William Nitze . David G. Noonan W. R. Norfolk . C. Norman

<<<Page: 436>>>

. Nanna M. Norrington
and Mrs. F. N. Norris, Jr. John W. Norris, Jr.
and Mrs. Robert L. North and Mrs. William M. North . John Norton
and Mrs. David P. Notley Milton G. Nottingham, Jr. Walter J Novak
. Dorothy Nubel
Martin Nyberg . William F. O’Meara
and Mrs. Denis T. O’Sullivan and Mrs. William J. O’Connor Robert K. Oaks
Eileen Obrien
Mary Teresa Odeneal Robert S. Oelman
Gerald Offerdahl
S.W.J. Ogush
W. G. Ohde
John A. O’Brien
Sam R. Olsen
and Mrs. Ted B. Olson Richard Omohundro
P. Opdahl-
Peter Oppmann
J.-E. Oreilly, dr.
R. F. Osbahr
James C. Overholt
Bethea Owen
Joseph H. Owen,
Joseph H. Owens
J: CG: Pace
Donald K. Palmer
and Mrs. Ralph A. Palmer John R. Pancella P. Panchal Dr. and Mrs. Christos Papatheodordu Mr. and Mrs. Albert E. Parker
oO oO
Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Parsons
Ms. Mabel Parsons
Ms. Patricia H. Partnow
Mr. R. F. Paschall, Jr.
Mr. George Paterson, Jr.
Mr. Geoffrey L Patton
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr. Mr
. B. R. Paulsen C. L. Pecchenino
and Mrs. Alvin Peck Robert Peck
Louis Peller
and Mrs. L. R. Pellissier s. Paul J. Peltier
Edmund Pendleton
s. Thorn Pendleton
and Mrs. William C. Penick Clarence Pennington Anastasia Perez
s. Thomas Perkins
and Mrs. Warren A. Perkins and Mrs. F. Alan Perlberg and Mrs. Michael Perlberg John Perruzzi
Dorothy F. Perry
Gene Perry
James P. Perry
and Mrs. John F. Perry Sandra J. Perry
Dalton E. Peterson Samantha A. Peterson Cliff Pfaff
Robert F. Pfafman
A. Phillips
and Mrs. J. Olcott Phillips Patrick Kent Pierce
Ms. Ellen Pilsecker
Mrs. Karen Pingitore
Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Piper Mr. John B. Pitchford
LtCol. Charles D. Pitts
Ms. Elinor Plimack
Ms. Diane J. Plotts
Mrs. Irene Plummer
Mr. and Mrs. Welch Pogue Mrs. Donald T. Pomeroy
. Robert D. Pomeroy
. Leroy Poole
and Mrs. Nicolas M. Poplawsky . Janice Popp
. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter . Ralph Porter
Reno R. Porter
. and Mrs. Ben Porto
. Mildred Potock1
and Mrs. Alan L. Potter Mrs. George Poulson
Miss Amy H. Pound
Dr. and Mrs. W. F. Pounds Mr. and Mrs. Franklin E. Powell Mrs. Oscar M. Powell
Mr. Robert E. Pownall
Mr. Richard L. Prager
Mrs. Charles P. Price
sssvsssses

<<<Page: 437>>>

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato Ms. Gloria Prochaska-
Mrs. Helen T. Purcell
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Purcell Mr. W. M. Quackenbush
Mrs. L King Quan
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Quinn Mr. John A. Radway, Jr.
Mr. David A. Ransom
Mr. and Mrs. Coleman Raphael Miss Ann Rasche
and Mrs. George E. Rassa . Philip Ratcliffe
. and Mrs. Earl C Ravenal . Beverly A. Rawles
and Mrs. Paul Rawn Russell D. Raymond
W. Ray
. Patricia Reardon
F.R. Rebsamen
and Mrs. Ralph H. Redford Atlee J. Reeb
Rollin M. Reeder
s. John H. Rees
and Mrs. Robert Reeves Mrs. Joan Reilly
Dr. Michael J. Reilly
Mr. Lawrence F. Reinalter Mrs. Edwin F. Rensler
Mr. H. A. Rentschler
Dr. and Mrs. F. Turner Reuter Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Reynierse Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, Jr. Mr. Robert Reynolds
Dr. Terry N. Reynolds
Mr. Roy C. Rhinehart, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads Mr. R. L. Rhodes, Jr.
Miss Kathleen Ribaudo
Mr. Arthur H. Rice
Mr. Allen Richards
Mr. E. Jerome Richards
Mr. Arthur L. Rich
Ms. Melissa J. Richens
Mr. G.R. Rich
Miss B. A. Richmond
Mr. Charles Rick
Mr. Edward H. Riddle
Mr. Richard D. Rife
Mr. John R. Rimmer
Dr. J. Jerome Rinaldi
Miss Marilyn Rising
Mr. and Mrs. John O. Rittenhouse Mrs. Frances H. Ritter
Mr. Robert E. Ritter
and Mrs. Schuyler Ritter and Mrs. John H. Rixse, Jr. Stephen C. Robbins
W. R. Robbins
and Mrs. Chalmers M. Roberts .and Mrs. K. S. Roberts
and Mrs. George A. Robertson Ruth Roberts
and Mrs. F L Robinson
. and Mrs. Ray Robinson
Mrs. Richard Rodgers
Mr. Dietrich Roesler
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Rogers Mrs. Vera E. Rogers
Ms. Mimi Rolland
Judge and Mrs. Herbert L. Rollins Mr. Glen D. Ronca
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root Mrs. M.Elaine Roschman
Mr. Charles H. Rose
Mr. Irving Rose
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Rose
Mr. Douglas Rosenbaum
Mrs. Nathan Rosenfeld
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rosenthal Mr. and Mrs. Raymond T. Rose Mr. J. W. Roskos
Dr. S. Rossello
Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Rosser Mr. James B. Ross
Mr. John J. Ross
Ms. Janice K. Rothlauf
Ms. Liebe Mary Roth
Mrs. Elizabeth D. Rott
Ms. Marya Rowan
Mr. and Mrs. Josiah P. Rowe Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Rowland Mr. Charles Rozier
Mr. B. Cecil Rubin
Dr. Philip Rubovits-Seitz
Mrs. Pat Rucker
Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Rugani Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Rule Mr. J. W. Runyon, Jr.
Mr. Jasper L. Russell
Dr. Edward C. Ruth
Mr. anc Mrs. John M. Ryan Dr. Stephen K. Rymer
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Sab:no Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs
Mr. Alan B. Sadwin
Dr. H. Pagan Saez
Mr. Richard H Salz
Dr. Arthur Sandstrom
Mr. A. Herbert Sandwen

<<<Page: 438>>>

Mr. Nilo M. Santiago
Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff
Mr. and Mrs. Dale Satran
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart M. Satterwhite Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Sawick Mrs. Lillian M. Saxe
Alice E Sayre
. Francis B. Sayre
. Albert Sbar
. James P. Scannell
. and Mrs. Eugene M. Schaeffer . William F. Schaper
. and Mrs. Arnold Scheinman Mrs. Robert S. Scheu
Mrs. Henry S. Schieferstein
Mr. and Mrs. J. Vincent Schlegel Miss Matilda P. Schlicht
Dr. and Mrs. S. P. Schmal
Mr. Richard L Schmidt
Miss Marguerite V. Schneeberger Dr. and Mrs. Hans H. Schneider Mr. and Mrs. Ian R. Schneider Ms. Margaret M. Schneider
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Schneider Dr. William H. Schneider
Dr. Sid Schnoll
Mr. Anthony A. Schoendorf
Mr. James E. Scholl
Ms. Alice Schonberg
Mr. R.S. Schreiber
Mr. D. L. Schroeder
Mr. and Mrs. J. Schroeder
ssssss
. and Mrs. Richard Schubert . John C. Schuldt . and Mrs. Martin L. Schulman . Robert Schwaner
Dr. Edward H. Schwarz
Mrs. Charles M. Scott
Ms. M. B. Scott
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Scott
Mr. Bernard L. Scriven
Mr. H.D. Sears, Jr.
Dr. Mary E. Sears
Mrs. Gerald H. Seifert
Mr. Wiiliam M. Senkus
Mr. Harry Severin
Mrs. Polly Shackleton
Mr. Scott Shadle
Ms. Elaine G. Shafrin
Mr. Kevin E. Shanahan
Mr. Roy J Shanker
Ms. Karen S. and G. Shapell
Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz
Dr. Daniel L. Shaw, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Sheffield
and Mrs. John W. Shepard and Mrs. R. M. Shepard
and Mrs. Gerald A. Sheppard and Mrs. George E. Sherman and Mrs. Richard J. Sherman and Mrs. Norman Sher
Miss Katherine Shilling
Mr. Rufus Shivers
Mr. and Mrs. Jack C. Shnider Mrs. Ross K. Shoolroy
Mrs. S.C. Shortlidge, Jr.
Mr. Robert H. Short
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Shoup
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Shrager
Dr. Stefan Shrier
Roy Shrobe
Harley F. Shuford, Jr.
LTGEN. and M. Philip D. Shutler,
W. Leonard Sibley Martha F. Siccardi and Mrs. Irving H. Siegel and Mrs. Jack Silberman
Russell L. Sill
Richard Sills
(A. WE. Silver
and Mrs. William H. Silvers . and Mrs. Robert L. Simmons and Mrs. Philip B. Simonds
and Mrs. Michael E. Simon
. Raymond Simon
Miss Alice H. Simpson
. J.T. Simpson
. Gladys M. Singer
. and Mrs. Joe L. Singer
. Richard Singer
and Mrs. James D. Singletary and Mrs. Lionel J. Skidmore
. and Mrs. Robert Skold
. Eileen S. Slack
. and Mrs. Paul Slezak
. Richard C. Sloan
Mrs. Walter W. Slocum
Mr. and Mrs. Leon Sloss
Ms. Jennifer Small
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Smith Jr. Mr. Benjamin K. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Smith Mr Mr Ms
. Dean B. Smith . Edward M. Smith . Ella E. Smith Ms. Luella A. Smith Mr. Raymond S. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Stevan B. Smith
and Mrs. Robert W. Siler, Jr.

<<<Page: 439>>>

Mr. Thomas F. Smith
Mr. W. Tilford Smith, Jr.
Mrs. Witham Smith
Mr. Howard F. Smothers
Dr. George E. Snider, Jr.
Miss Ginny Sniegon
Mr. John B. Snyder
Mr. W. P. Snyder, III
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Snyder Mr. and Mrs. Norman Solat
Mr. David Solo
Mr. William H. Somerville
Hon. and Mrs. Soren C. Sommerfelt Ms. Lynn A. Soukup
Mrs. Sylvia Spar
Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Spear Mr. Mark Speizer
Mr. Harry H. Spence
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Sperling Mr. Fred Spinder
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Sponseller Mr. L. Spozais
Mrs. V. Spratley
Mr. Omer F. Spurlock
Mrs. H. V. Staelens
Ms. Virginia Stainton
Mrs. Donna W. Stanford
Mr. Ellwood C. Stang
MGEN. and Mrs. Carl W. Stapleton (Ret)
Donn A. Starry
and Mrs. Ralph C. Stayer and Mrs. Frederick R. Stebbins and Mrs. Dudrey Sieel Simon Steely
William R. Stehle
and Mrs. William L. Stenger and Mrs. Charles R. Stephan Peter J. Stephens
W. Clinton Sterling, III Abigail Sterling
Bruce B. Sterling
and Mrs. Carleton W. Sterling Douglas D. Sterling
and Mrs. William Sternfeld
. J. Stevens
and Mrs. Edwin L. Stevens Roland E. Stevens
Suzanne E. Stevens
and Mrs. Eugene P. Stichman and Mrs. Richard W. Stickel] and Mrs. Glen E. Stillwell and Mrs. John E. Stinchfield . Philip B. Stiness, Jr.
and Mrs. Frank A. Stocking . Robert A. Stone
and Mrs. John Strachan Virgil R. Strader
and Mrs. John G. Strange and Mrs. S. Tudor Strang and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton Warren J. Strudwick
David G. Stuart
s. Hosmer B. Stuck
William T. Stumb
John A. Sturm
Arthur Stutzer
and Mrs. Steven C. Suddaby s. Sally A. Sullivan
. Vincent M. Sullivan
Paul L. Sulsky
John Sutch
Wilson A. Swanker
. J. R. Swank
Russell Swanson
and Mrs. Harold E. Sweeney Mary R. Swicegood
Albert L. Symonds
Albert Szvetics
and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott and Mrs. M. Tambasco Darrell G. Tangman
T. Miriam Tani
Nancy Tarsitano
John B. Tavano
s. Delle Ernst Taylor
John Taylor
Robyn D. Taylor
W. H. Taylor
Roy Teramoto
Joseph M. Tessmer
Norman R. Thal, Jr.
Harper Thayer
Alan Thebert
Frank A. Therrell
and Mrs. Paul F. Thiele
A. P. Thomas
Barry Dan Thomas
Edmund Thomas
F. Joseph Thomas
and Mrs. Holcombe H. Thomas . J. T. Thomas
t. and Mrs. Edgar K. Thompson and Mrs. Edward L. Thompson and Mrs. James L. Thompscn Mims Thompson
and Mrs. Pierce Thompson
. W. Reid Thompson
. Charles A. H. Thomson vee Margot K. Thomson
Mrs. Veronica Thorp

<<<Page: 440>>>

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Tibor Ms. Barbara L. Tierney
Mrs. L. E. Tierney
Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Tillman, III Miss Catherine Tinkham
Mr. H. Titchell
Ms. Rosalie Toko
Mrs. Araks V. Tolegian
Leroy M. Tolman
J. Robert Tomlinson
and Mrs. Wilbur L. Townsend and Mrs. F. Gerald Toye Adrian G. Traas
and Mrs. Francis R. Trainor and Mrs. William Travis
R F Trefielo
Edmond R. Tremblay
Jose E. Trias
and Mrs. Billy G. Troy
s. Pat Tuccio
s. James N. Tulloh
Robert L. Tull
Eva F Tully
and Mrs. William S. Tutwiler Evelyn Twigg-Smith
Glenn A. Ulrich
Mrs. George C. Underwood, II Dr. Paul L. Urban
Donald Usher
T. Uyesugi
Walter L. Vail
C. W. Valencourt, Jr.
and Mrs. J. B. Vallandingham Robert Vallier
Egbert N. P. Van Es
Paul Van Fossen
Ray E. Vanalstine
F. B. Vandenburgh
August Vandessel
and Mrs. Richard C. Vandusen and Mrs. Carl F. Vanhaeften Caroline E. Vanmason
and Mrs. John A. Varela
and Mrs. Armen Varterssian . Samuel M. Vauclain, III Mrs. Franklin Veatch
Ms. Natalie D. Venneman
Mr. and Mrs. James L. Ventura Gen. John W. Vessey, Jr.
Dr. John J. Vill
Mr. Victor J. Villone
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond D. Vinick
and Mrs. Wm.J. Turbeville, Jr.
. Jacquelyn E. Vinson
. and Mrs. Peter R. Voll
. Valma A. Von Holt
. and Mrs. Gerard J. Vyskocil, Jr. . Jill R. Wade
. Woodward Waesche
. M.G. Waggoner
W. A. Waggoner
. David H. Wagner
Paul F. Wagner
and Mrs. Peter E. Wagner Bert Waldstein
James F. Walkup
Wayne D. Walling
John O. Wallor
Alan B. Wambold
and Mrs. Robert B. Wareheim and Mrs. Seth L. Warfield and Mrs. C. Grant Warner George F. Warner
John Warner
. Richatd Warren . Saul Warshaw . Ruth G. Wasley
and Mrs. Paul Wasserman Barbara Waters
Miss Eva Watkins Capt. Jack E. Watson
Ca Mr.
Mildred V. Watts James E. Wayland H. Wayne Weagly
. Frances Weaver
and Mrs. John E. Weaver
and Mrs. Glyn H. Webber Arvid G. Wedin
William S. Weedon
and Mrs. Edward Weinberg Marjorie Weinberg
and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann and Mrs. Herman W. Weinreich Edgar V. Weir
Leonard W. Wels
and Mrs. Joseph A. Weiss Douglas F. Welebir
and Mrs. Edmund Wellington, Jr. Charles E. Wells
and Mrs. Jack W. Wells
and Mrs. Terry Welsh
and Mrs. P.A. Wentz
Gerald L. Werner
Stuart L. Werner
t. J. H. Wesson USN, Ret.
and Mrs. James T. West
Miss Hilda Wexler
and Mrs. George Y. Wheeler, III

<<<Page: 441>>>

Ms. Jaan Whitehead
Mrs. John P. White >
Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. White Mr. James H. Wiborg
Mrs. Mary S. Wicker
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard A. Wien Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Wikler Dr. and Mrs. U. V. Wilcox, II Mrs. Vivian Wildman
Mr. Mark H. Wiley
Mrs. Gladys E. Willard
Mr. Karl H. Willen
Mr. Andrew W. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Williams Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. H. Williams, Jr Mr. and Mrs. Larry Williams MGEN. and Mrs. Ellis W. Williamson Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Williams Mr. and Mrs. Vernon B. Willis Mr. and Mrs. W. Cooper Willits Ms. Louise W. Willson
Capt. Lucille A. Wilson
. Daniel P. Wilson
. Edward Wilson
F A Wilson
. and Mrs. Henry T. Wilson . Hugh H. Wilson
. Janice L. Wilson
. Lowell Wilson
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr. Mrs. Regina Wilson
Dr. and Mrs. Richard B. Wilson and Mrs. Roger H. Wingate R. T. Winn
and Mrs. David Wintermann Joan Wirig
James D. Wirt
Neal H. Wirt
Robert Wissoker
Phelps Witter, jr
and Mrs. William W. Wittie and Mrs. Leland A. Wolf and Mrs. William T. Wolf Gary L. Wollenzien
and Mrs. Stanton Wong Baird Woodcock
David L.. Wood
and Mrs. Harry E. Wood Marshall D. Woods
Thomas P. Wood
H. R. Wrage
and Mrs. Philip L. Wright Reverdy E. Wright
. Walter R. Wright
Mrs. Susan T. Wyland
Ms. Margaret J. Wyllie
Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman
Mr. and Mrs. Verlin Y. Yamamoto Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney Mrs. Dolores R. Yanover | Mr. Charles Yarbrough
Mr. and Mrs. Michael S. Yauch Mr. Ronald Yeakey Mr. and Mrs. Gary B. Yost
Mr. and Mrs. Albert T. Young Dr. and Mrs. Gerald D. Young Miss Jane B Young
Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Young Mr. and Mrs. James Youniss Dr. and Mrs. Berton Zbar
Mr. and Mrs. Fred M. Zeder Col. Frank J. Zeller
Dr. and Mrs. Robert Zeppa
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Zimmerman Mr. and Mrs. Otto A. Zipf
Mr. Louis I. Zorensky
Mr. Michael Zumoff

<<<Page: 442>>>



<<<Page: 443>>>



<<<Page: 444>>>

Mo Petits Se
‘ = , ‘ ee , a 4 ee idea er on on ' wi : eye aan _ ‘ aie! SY ' e a DEY sit, A hn Ohaus : ns a? pees ' 4 : | ' . tod, th ‘ Ao a 7 # Si ’ ‘ f “ f in v

<<<Page: 445>>>

TUTION NOILIILILONI NVINUSALINS SsaIGVaGqlt LIDRARICS SOMITASUNTIAN INSGTITULION NOILLITILILONI NVINOQSHILI
z ake eos z & z i z fi z & 5 3 -S z g F S =) = =) = : = > E > E: > fs > iS 2 a = fe 2 = 2 z ia une by z a z ia VUGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI S3IMYVUGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONI 2 we ie) =z ioe n z n = ee n 4 cs ASS = = Nae = = Cay NS = 3 S S Zz “s ai a nd fh s \ ar y (eo) We . ele © NE eye ro) io ca ANY, f fo) WY Z oo aINE 2NR 2 2 ILM IRS 7 Seu = E ~ 2 E 2 iy = \ = a . 8 a 3 B 2 a Se
TUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS SaiuvugIt LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILQLILSNI NVINOSHLI
2p) = w > w => (ep) = Ww z Qs uw ms Ww = Ww 2 ES = a ae = =. it fy z 2 WX < = BA < a afi 3 < 5 WA a SN o = a“ Gy, =| a \ E 2 °N 2 2 a Uy 3 : 2 7-€ 4 = baa el 2 = Zz as 2
eee ERA RES SMUT: SONIANEINST ITO TION | NOMOLTSNU NVINOSHUWS ostaVdgt ea RARE Sm = Oo Z = fe) =e oO pm (eo) : 3 = Ey, 2 = = We =& . 5 GZG > a tye Ys > rad > A Fa ; a GH 3 = 2 WWE z E GK ae Ee Lp fal sae e ae Ww E ae ars “of Fe Oo zZ D z Go Me z
HUTION, NOILNLIILSNI NVINOSHLINS SATYVeeIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLI < vz < = < * = z ae a = t fy ra 4 = fy
Wi FZ? : 2 NA 3 S : Pas
BS YI fl ro) es Se i) WI x
\ SO = Z, = AY 8 = se ae
\, . ‘ > eng
ws 8 a 3 5 w 2 B 3 a
VYGI1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS LIBRARIES 2 us yy, 2 us 2% ul 2 He @ = ¥iy,% = g : @ z = a Ue G5 oc = WW oc = a“ c < @: agi = < Cc ‘e MNS: <x e < =| oe Pee = ac + & LS ce bar [acd 5) mM” = co Pat *N a 5 a. 2 a Zz a = = 2 a
TUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3INYVYUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOALILSNI NVINOSHLII = cS z ue S ue S cage 2 w NS ° wo = er 2 ow Xs E ae 2 2 E 2 AN = > NXg “‘N“ ra > FY > E > MWS : = =] NS = Ba “aa x = as o = ay n ™ ” m 2) m = o _ 2 o = a = o
= x g z AS g = 3 z K g
pote S&S §F ! = Ee = =a = ws“ ss
Mp iS 3 ENN 2 Wf? 2 i fp & NS F
iy EN 8 PER § GH 2 EGGS BRR B
oe E WY Zz ES 2% = S Gay = YX 2 = = mY Ss 5 Qs 5 4 S — rm) al a ae 7) = 77) eS
TUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS saluvugiq_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSH1LI
e ip net Ww = Ra ul ae WwW ra uw ad ie cs E ZN = =. yt fp 3 : ZWX&K : = BE : e SGiwy z E VO S SQ = « “ity si = 7
= 3 N 2 3 2 GW? 3 2 5 Z | 2 J 2 —! z= hy
VualT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS (SAIYVUaIT LIBRARIES” SMITHSOM : 5 wih, S a 5 = Sy wo — ED oO ies) ow — Ls S — $%y?> : 2 We 5 2 5 oz > = UP pee = = \x SY > = : a) =. CF Ks 2 = cs WAY ee = Yh _ a Cs @ is o ts wy wo —_ n?* ae O = wo = n i = o =
n = n z n za 22) Zz « = < =< ae = < = gy, :
= 2 = We F zZ 2 Gy 2 Ee (ae OE OZ: WE? E Z, E Wor'Z E 2, i * i : z Bo ae 5 2 5 r ras ro yy Fa 7 4 = 2 w Tr 2 cm WY yy, 2 Gm W <m &F Bw Y <gm =m" YF,

<<<Page: 446>>>

Git LIDARANTED ONIELEIOUIUIFIN CONDE Pee EIR IEE fee ieee LIDRARI CS OMITIOVUINIALS iz z fr: S UZ = = @ = yess S ey = o = a > et > 2 = = > z de: = 2 “YP x @ a @ = 3 Vil n — n” = nw a = n — ION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSN! NVINOSHLIWS g z g = S. = z @. & Z = = 3 = AS oS Zz KE = ‘ = = [@) eke Orcs a € Lc ro) WS Se ae Ls fo) 8% 2 a BRE 8 2N& & GF ? . g = z E “OG 2 io » 2G. = la: Se aa i Oe ta eee? giq LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31uvVH¥gIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN = a 2 ss 2 rf 2 ts = a. tt fy ‘2 co = = = « Yt fy 2 i Pip a < = < a auf = « “Gey S S Ps 5 a Uy 3 a “WP 3 = S Z 8 2 Gp Zz = i = = 2 eee 2 a 1ON NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3iy¥yvud!i1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN” INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS z 7 z is z ce = Si : : s : 3 : é : > a > a 5 7 > me) a = _ > = > a = = 2 a _ ad = = rs = a 2 Z Hs Z i z iB Z 1s SiId_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYUGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN = * g <a « g = g = g a = << , =< = = yy, = a re 3 @YYy.=z = 2 =| Ze 9 z 2 Ss, z bbe 8 z 3 7) . 2 7) igh = = = ra) aN 2 ION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIANS S3!YVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSN! NVINOSHLIWS 2 Z é 3 2 Z g 2 = 4 = 4 = 4 = a = fad na) aes! = oa a ree 4 Be A = S\ fr = (o c ec Cc fed = RIS = ns = = 2 Ns a S a 3 a rs) a ° S oar S z = 417 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION “NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IY¥VuUaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN c = = a a i z = ro) = ro) _ ra) = re) w = @ = o = o = eh e Ke ~— H~jaf y, *) x 2 x Lif = E > = > P > = ZY Fad e os e tes = Le “Ey ION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVYUSIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILONLILSN! NVINOSHLINS w z 2 z < g Zoe w z‘3 = ual fp Xs = 2K 5 oY Kz ae g ILD 3 QS 3 g i 2D 8 z= 2 Ggy = SN 2 z 8Gg7 z ; : we z : ; ba gp MITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION | NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN nw = : VW = wn WY i nn = a = a th fy = a a AWS a « tH GY A <3; iff. Up a < =i \ ee a <¥Y Lp Cc = Wg (= Po c N WN = Cc = aA 3 U@ 3 i a : s % 2 = 2 sj = *~ 3 Zz a 1ON > NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIWS sos luvuyud A LIBRARI Soo SOM Ae Noire oN = NOILALILSNINVINOSHLIWS fe) =a S) = re) = re) =) a = wo = wo = Y, o = o . = 3 5 = = Gy, 0 : = NX. e = > = > ry A hi > = > YY ES | = 2 = Es — & iF 2 res os MS 2 As ae KG 2 pd Z m 2 m ot m AW a= wn — wn = n = wn a1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS (S31 uvedlT _LIBRARI ES SMITHSONIAN ‘~ = * P . : = < z= < = g < < = em pal = re Ss = QWy%yy = = : a \w i Ye; via WN nn ; SRA. = p as tia nie oO x Ry WS MEME oO lp ob at SA (a) 2 = AS 2. UY lo 2 89h E XN S : > = “SS >’ = > = “SS > ¢ Fa ae > = Ww “ = | ALOLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31¥VYaIT LIBRARIES” INSTITUTION eo eeNeSR nS aN 2 dd z =) NN ws <i> Ww <ul> — <i> | > ft LE 6 R&R. 8 LS G Km Y Oo 6a Y KS © ®& .

<<<Page: 447>>>

3 9088 01630 7993
an a x < « a a z 9 = =) = = 7) = z s 2 fo} a x = = C7
nL, Sgeeioa 2. i ae

<<<Page: 448>>>

ow mnt —_ —_ bee a _ — e ta fod od e a
= mete — = ad — Ld y cal ae as fs — =, ~ — ee a oe =
an ¥
= é &
nianyears1989
smit