»

~

.
8
- .

rs
te =
es te
~
- . y
. 7
= ‘s = a
ca 2
.
,
4 - &
*. -
ee
we ‘at
Pp

: ei
Nine
OO
Fe.

orcas

—

SPASTT SETS

’ Sera 7 ; —
38TH oes HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. © § Mis. Doc.
lst Sessvon. : ity No, 83. *%

¥
=

=
. °.

“ANNUAL REPORT i

OF

4%

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING THE

* OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1863.

Ve WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1864,— :

a

q \ . “! & n ¥
‘ie !) Pee Lee - . - ed a es
o In THE House oF REPRESENTATIVES, June 28, 1864. |
- _ Resolved, That five thousand extra copies of the Report ef the Smithsonian Institution be |
mn printed—two thousand for the Institution. and three thousand for the use of the members of ;

it thi Houdé. % , ®
S -» ys

4 ‘

oe .
- | ey

7 i .

*

_

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

¥ OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

N

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTI-
_ TUTION UP TO JANUARY, 1864, AND THE PROCEEDINGS
v * OF THE BOARD UP TO MARCH 16, 1864. .

To the Senate and House of Representatives :

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establish-
ing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the
Regents, submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Institution, the following documents:

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations of the Institution, during the year 1863.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an
account of the expenditures for the year 1863.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to March 16, 1864.

4, Appendix.

Respectfully submitted, ‘
R. B. TANEY, Chancellor.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
: , a a ; :
' : e > , LB TTER 2 od 3 a
. s of tne ; we nl
- SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
2?" a all +
, < Conmne sions. a ra ‘

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, - AND CON-
DITION OF THE INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1863.

v
:
JUNE 28, 1864.—Read, and ordered to be printed.

Ba SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, June 27, 1864.
‘Sm: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the House of Representatives of the United States the annual report
of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian In-
- stitution for the year 1863.
T have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

, JOSEPH HENRY,
: Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. 8S. Courax, “4
e Speaker of the House of Representatives.
,
. .
ot = - * re
ee ee > man
eS | Ril sy Mee
= Cem og % . a, ~ 7 - ’
, % . ” : + *» n > “.
’ * ’ ‘ : . ‘ «> > 4 e & 7
y OG ro ee
. a ° . “-* ‘’
° ¥ @ *
OFFICERS OF THE sMIT HSONIAN INSTITUTION.
a ‘we alee 864.
/*~@ ° Rwy #
*, A : , *€
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, Ee officio Presiding Officer of the Institution, °2
RoGaE B. TANEY,* ‘Chancellor of the Institution. Ye
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. oe

re me Assistant Secretary.

ie he easurer.
WILLIAM J HEES, Chief Clerk.

*

A. D. BACHE,

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, $ Executive Committee.

R. WALLACH, J ‘
2! %

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

H. HAMLIN, Vice-President of the United States.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.

R. WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington.

W. P. FESSENDEN, member of the Senate of the United States, (Maine. )

L. TRUMBULL, member of the Senate of the United States, (Illinois. )
GARRETT DAVIS, member of the Senate of the United States, er )

8. S. COX, member of the House of Representatives, (Ohio. )

J. W. PATTERSON, member of the House of Representatives, (New Hampshire.)
H. W. DAVIS, member of the House of Representatives, (Maryland. )

W. B. ASTOR, citizen of New York.

W. L. DAYTON, citizen of New Jersey.

T. D. WOOLSEY, citizen of Connecticut.

LOUIS AGASSIZ, citizen of Massachusetts.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington.

1

- JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington.
J. P. USHER, Secretary of the Interior, (ez officio

Ae ae ee ae OR a .
’ a ¥ , 4 « | , .
a* tie tas Y
’ e + P , “n Ms f - * % *
. , R
® , a , ¥ .
_ * MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THEMNSTPITUTION.
.— fo “- va “ap , ® p :
' - - — 4 %
“ »* 7 ¢ % 9
. ‘ am ”
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States. . 4 a
HANNIBAL HAMLIN, Vice-President of the United States. * »*
* _W. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. , .
S. P. CHASE, Secretary of the Treasury. S ~
. E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War. y -
G. WELLES, Secretary of the Navy. a
M. BLAIR, Postmaster General. a " 4
E. BATES, Attorney General. ° y
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
e D. P. HOLLOWAY, Commissioner of Patents. -
~~ RICHARD WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington. ? m4 ”
. ~
5
HONORARY MEMBERS.
. BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut.
¢;

a :
ei 3
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

‘SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.]

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan
of Organization.

1. Witt or SurrHson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge among men.”’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government
of the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of
the testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4. The objects of the Institution are, Ist, to increase, and, 2d, to
diffuse knowledge among men. .

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus in-
creased, among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted pro-
visionally; can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications,
or be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution,
8 ' PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be
added to the principal. , .
11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated,

‘the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the

construction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals Dagnonehy sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be
benefited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary ex-
penditure on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations deduced immediately from

_ the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of

the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library,
a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to
contain them.

SECTION I

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer-
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons.

TO DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.
I.—bLy stimulating researches.

1. Facilities to be afforded for the production of original memoirs
on at branches of knowledge.

. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of vol-
tind in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge.

No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for
Riviere which does not furnish a positive addition to human
knowledge, resting on original research; and all unverified specula-
tions to be rejected.

4. Hach memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in
, PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

the branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for
publication only in case the report of this commission be favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless
a favorable decision be made. -

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transac-
tions of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all
the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the
remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully
preserved, to form complete sets of the work, to capa ly the demand
from new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these me-
moirs to be given to the public through the annual report of the
Regents to Congress.

Il.—By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to Pe recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different ices so that,
in course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithso-
nian Contributions to Knowledge.

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological,
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the
formation of a physical atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina-
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and
of light ; chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publi-
cation of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries one reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif-
ferent races of men in North America; also. explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of
our country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

1.— By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year wm
all branches of knowled ge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally inter-
esting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.
. i

the reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as

the income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of

knowledge may indicate. :

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the
different branches of knowledge. .

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and pubii-
cations, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his
report ; to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on
the title-page of the report.

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it
without purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress for partial distri-
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific
institutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in
the reports : a
TI. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry,
and meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4, Application of science to art.

. Il. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and political economy. .

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c.

Ill. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

_9. Modern literature.

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

Il.— Ly the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission
of competent judges previous to their publication:

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in
the table of reports. |
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated
the formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Regents,
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income* into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme
before.given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible one with another.

4. Tocarry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, first, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; second, of the more
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary
in preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of
experimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio-
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any
work which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary
to purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other
similar societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be-
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except
one, to act as librarian.

*= The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the

Dinitede Statesiise.< 25 2 -cau eee wes. ceca sseels <5 Sea esiecelssecunin~ $515,169 00
Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the build-

BND.) ee seen = Je en ceeds coes eoeacd toewen sceane = etiacass cane 242,129 00

Annual income from the bequest -....-...-.0- s-ec----- ee ee a 30,910 if
12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property,
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents,
employ assistants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art; distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has
become the settled policy of the Institution. The. only material
change is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted Jan-
uary 15, 1855, viz: :

Resolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents,
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in-
come between the active operations and the museum and library,
when the buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents,
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic impor-
tance, and a compliance in good faith with the law.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To the Board of Regents:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present, at the commencement
of another session of your honorable board, the annual report of the
condition and transactions of the Smithsonian Institution during the
year 1865.

The general operations of the Institution are so uniform from year
to year that the several annual reports can differ but little from
each other; the usual order will, therefore, be observed in this com-
munication, with only such variations as the special incidents of the
year may require.

It will be seen by the report of the Executive Committee that the
finances of the Institution are in as favorable a condition as the state
of public affairs would authorize us to expect. First. The whole
amount of money originally derived from the bequest of Smithson is
still in the treasury of the United States, bearing interest at six per
eent., paid semi-annually, and yielding $30,910. Second. Seventy-
five thousand dollars of an extra fund are in bonds of the State
of Indiana, at five per cent. interest, also paid semi-annually, yield-
ing $3,750. Third. Fifty-three thousand five hundred dollars of the
same fund are in bonds of the State of Virginia, twelve thousand in
those of Tennessee, and five hundred in those of Georgia, from which
nothing has been derived since the commencement of the war. Fourth.
A balance of upwards of $32,000 is now in the hands of the treasurer
of the Institution.

The unsettled accounts at the close of the year do not exceed two
thousand dollars.

From this statement it appears that the Institution, after erecting
a building, accumulating a large library and an extensive museum,
supplying the principal museums of the world with specimens of
natural history, and publishing a series of volumes which have been
distributed to all first-class libraries abroad, and still more extensively
at home, has upwards of one hundred thousand dollars in addition
to the money received from the original bequest. In addition to
this, the stocks of Virginia and Tennessee are quoted at about half

,
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. — =
*

their par value, and it may be a question whether they should not be

disposed of and the money otherwise invested.

A part of the original bequest, amounting to £5,015, was left by
Mr. Rush in England, as the principal of an annuity to be paid to the
mother of the nephew of Smithson. The annuitant having died, a
power of attorney was sent, in November, 1862, to Messrs. Fladgate,
Clark & Finch to collect the money; but it has not yet been received.
Although the whole legacy was awarded to Mr. Rush in behalf of
the United States, after an amicable suit in chancery, various objections
have been raised to allowing the small remainder to be sent to this
country. These objections appear to be principally of a technical

character, and are scarcely compatible with an equitable interpretation

of the facts of the case. There should be no prejudice in England
in regard to the construction placed upon the terms of the bequest and
the policy which has been adopted, since one hundred and sixty-
nine institutions in Great Britain and Ireland are recipients of the
Smithsonian publications and specimens of natural history, and have
enjoyed the advantages of its system of international exchange.

Although the financial affairs of the Institution are still in a favor-
able condition, its ability to produce results is materially diminished
on account of the advanced prices of labor and materials, and espe-
cially the high rate of exchange under which its foreign operations
are necessarily conducted. Still, all parts of the general system
have been carried on with less abatement than might have been
expected, as will be seen from the following account of the various
operations :

Publications. —The publications of the Institution, as stated in pre-
vious reports, consist of three series: Ist, Contributions to Knowl-
edge ; 2d, Miscellaneous Collections ; and, 3d, Annual Reports.

The Contributions include memoirs, embracing the records of origi-
nal investigations and researches, resulting in such new truths as are
considered interesting additions to knowledge. Twelve volumes in
quarto of this series have been published, and the thirteenth is nearly
ready for distribution.

The Miscellaneous Collections include works intended to facilitate
the study of the various branches of natural history, to give instruc-
tion as to the method of observing phenomena, and to furnish a
variety of other matter connected with the progress of science. Of
this series four large octavo volumes have been issued, and two more
¥Z nearly completed.

we a OF THE SECRETARY. 15

The Annual Reports to Dobsnens consist, each, of an octavo volume
of 450 pages. They contain the report of the Secretary on the
operations and condition of the Institution, the proceedings of the
Regents, and an appendix, giving a synopsis of the lectures delivered
at the Institution, extracts from correspondence, and articles of a
character suited to meteorological observers, to teachers, and other
persons especially interested in the promotion of knowledge.

The thirteenth volume of the Contributions has been completed,
and is now in the hands of the binder. It contains the following
original papers:

1. Tidal Observations in the Arctic Seas; by Elisha Kent Kane,
M. D; made during the second Grinnell Expedition in Search of Sir
John Franklin in 1853-55. Reduced and discussed by Charles A.
he assistant United States Coast Survey.

. Meteorological Observations in the Arctic Seas ; by Sir Leopold
McClintock : made on board the Arctic searching yacht ‘‘ Fox’’ in
Baffin’s Bay and Prince Reg ent’s Inlet in 185759. Reduced and dis-
cussed by Charles A. Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey.

3. Ancient Mining on the shores of Lake Superior. By Charles
Whittlesey.

4. Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations
made at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840—'45.
Part II. Investigation of the Solar-Diurnal Variation of the Magnetic
Declination and its Annual Inequality. By A. D. Bache, Superin-
tendent Coast Survey.

5. Part ILI. Investigation of the Lunar Effects of the Magnetic
Declination. By A. D. Bache.

6. Parts IV, V, VI. Horfontal Force. Investigation of the ten
or eleven year period, and of the disturbances of the horizontal
component of the magnetic force ; investigation of the solar-diurnal
variation and of the annual inequality of the horizontal force, and of
the lunar effect on the same. By A. D. Bache.

7. Records and Results of a Magnetic Survey of Pennsylvania and
parts of adjacent States in 1840, 1841, with some Additional Records
and Results of 1834, 1835, 1843, and 1862, and a Map. By A. D.
Bache.

8. Researches ous the Anatomy and Physiology of Respiration in
the Chelonia. By S. Weir Mitchell, M.D., and George R. More-
house, M. D.

Accounts have been given in previous reports of all the papers
contained in this volume, excepting that’ on the Chelonia. This
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Pe 7
paper, by S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and George R. Morehouse, M.D.,
of Philadelphia, is a very complete study of the anatomy and physi-
ology of the breathing organs in turtles. It seems that, although at
one time, and by a single observer, the true mode of the breathing
of these animals was partially understood, it had long been neglected,
and modern physiologists have taught that turtles forced air into the
lungs as do frogs. Drs. Mitchell and Morehouse have shown that
turtles breathe like mammals, by drawing air into the lungs by the
aid of muscles situated in the flanks and on the outside of the lungs.
Their paper contains a detailed account of the anatomy of the breath-
ing organs of turtles, and is illustrated with numerous wood-cuts.
The most novel discovery described by the authors is that of a chiasm
or crossing from side to side of a portion of the nerves which supply
the muscles of the larynx. Except the well-known facts as to similar
crossings within the skull, no previous author has described any simi-
lar extra-cranial arrangement of nerves. The physiological uses of
the laryngeal chiasm has been fully studied by Drs. Mitchell and
Morehouse ; and more recently Professor Wyman, led by their dis-
covery, has described similar nerve arrangements in serpents and in
certain birds.

The authors express their indebtedness to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for the aid with which they were furnished in obtaining the
requisite specimens for experiments and for dissection.

The following papers have been accepted for publication, and will
form parts of the fourteenth volume of Contributions :

Ist. Three additional parts of the series of discussion of the mag-
netic observations at Girard College, by Professor A. D. Bache.

2d. The result of a series of microscopical studies of the medulla
oblongata, or the upper portion of the spinal marrow, by Dr. John
Dean.

3d. A memoir on the paleontology of the Upper Missouri, by F. B.
Meek and F. V. Hayden. ,

4th. An account of the photographical observatory and various
experiments in regard to this subject, by Dr. Henry Draper, of New
York.

5th. A monograph of the ‘‘Larida’’ or gulls, by Dr. Elliott Coues.

All these memoirs, except the last, are in the hands of the printer,
or in process of illustration by the engraver.

In several of the preceding reports an account has been given of a
series of reductions of the magnetic observations made from 1840 to
1845, inclusive, at Girard College, Philadelphia, by Professor Bache.
sos REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

The first two of the papers of this series related to what is called the
eleven-year period of the variation -of the needle, which corresponds
with the recurrence and frequency of the spots on the sun. The
third paper relates to the influence of the moon on the variation of
the needle. The fourth refers to the change in the horizontal part
of the force of the earth’s magnetism coinciding with the eleven-
year period of the spots on the sun. The fifth relates to the effect
of the sun in producing daily and annual variations in the horizontal
component of the magnetic force. The sixth relates to the lunar
influence on the horizontal magnetic force.

A particular account has been given of the result of all these inves-
tigations, which tend fully to corroborate the conclusions arrived at
from observations in other parts of the world, that both the sun and
moon are magnetic bodies, and exert an influence upon the polarity
of the earth ; and also that the magnetism of the sun has variations
in intensity which are in some way connected with the appearance
of spots on its surface, giving rise to the variations in those perturba-
tions of the needle which have been called magnetic storms, and
which present a periodical recurrence at an interval of about eleven
years.

The influence of the moon is much less marked than that of the
sun, and appears: to be more analogous to the temporary magnetism
induced in soft iron.

Parts VII, VIII, and IX of this series, now in the press, are a con-
tinuation of the same subject. Part VII contains the discussion of
the effect of a change of temperature on the readings of the vertical
force instrument.

If a magnetic needle could be supported perfectly free in space, so
as to assume the direction into which it would be brought by the
magnetic action of the earth, it would arrange itself in the line of
what is called the dip, or the inclination of the needle. At the mag-
netic equator of the earth such a needle would be parallel to the
horizon, but, departing from this line either to the north or the south,
the inclination would increase continually until we arrive at the mag-
netic pole, when it would be vertical. It is plain that the full magnetic
force of the earth, in the line of the dip, may be resolved into two
others, viz., a horizontal force, or that which draws the ordinary
magnetic needle back to the meridian when it has been deflected
from this position; and, second, the vertical force which tends to
draw the end of the needle down into the line of the dip. The fre-

2s
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

quency of vibrations of a magnetic bar suspended by an untwisted
+hread, so as to be horizontal, gives the horizontal component of the
force of the earth, while the vibrations of a similar bar placed in the
plane of the dip, and poised horizontally like a*scale-beam on two
knite-edges, gives the variations in the vertical force. These vibra-
tions, however, will be affected not only by the changes in the mag-
netism of the earth, but by that in the bar itself; and as the latter
is affected by the temperature of the place, a series of observations
and discussions was necessary to ascertain the corrections due to this
cause. For this purpose the room was artificially heated and cooled ;
but the value of the correction was finally deduced from an investi-
gation of the whole series of regular observations compared with the
changes of temperature indicated by the hourly register of the ther-
mometer.

The corrections for temperature were afterwards applied. to all
the observations. The larger disturbances were then separated from
the body of the series in the same manner as had been done with
' regard to the horizontal force, by which means the effect of the
monthly and yearly disturbance of the sun is exhibited analytically and
graphically. From the results it appears that the number and aggre-
* gate amount of disturbances were least in 1844; that in each year
the greatest number of disturbances occurs in March and September,
and the least number in June, or, in other words, the maximum about
the equinoxes, and the minimum about the solstices.

In an appendix to this paper the connexion of the appearance of
the aurora borealis with the disturbances of the direction and force
of the earth’s magnetism is discussed. From the result of this dis-
cussion it appears that there is a periodicity of about eleven years in
the recurrence of the frequency of the aurora, as well as in that of
the great disturbances of the needle, and that these are coincident
with each other and with the appearance of the spots on the sun.

The eighth part of the series gives the discussion of the daily and
yearly variations due to the action of the sun on the vertical compo-
nent of the magnetic force. The mean variation of the force is deter-
mined for each hour during each month and for the whole year, and
also for the summer and the winter separately. These are expressed
analytically and graphically, and an examination of the curve shows
a principal maximum about 1 p. m., and a principal minimum about
Ja.m. There is an indication of a secondary maximum about 2 a.m.,
and a secondary minimum about 4 a. m.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

_In summer the curve appears to have but one greatest and one
least ordinate occurring about noon and midnight. In winter the
double feature of the curve becomes quite conspicuous.

The vertical force appears greater in May, June, July, and August,
and less in the remaining months, with a range of about a hundred
ind five hundred thousandth part of the whole force.

The ninth part gives the investigation of the influence of the moon
upon the vertical force ; also upon the direction and intensity of the
total force. The methods of investigation are the same in this as in
the preceding parts. ‘The daily effects of the moon exhibit a prin-
cipal maximum a little before the planet passes the upper meridian,
and a principal minimum about three hours after it passes the lower
meridian. The average epoch of the tide of vertical force is about
one and a half hour in advance, apparently, of the culmination of the
moon. A secondary variation of this force, though noticed, is very
feeble. The subject of the time of greatest lunar disturbance is yet
very imperfectly developed, and more observations in regard to it

“are desirable.
A comparison is also given in this paper between the observations
_ made at Toronto and Philadelphia, and their accordances or differ-
ences are stated. The effect of the moon upon the direction and inten-
sity of the total force is obtained by a combination of the vertical
and horizontal components. From this part of the investigation it
appears that the dip is greatest at 8 and 20 hours, and least at 3
hours and 153, the range being equal to 3.6 seconds; and also that
the maximum strength of the earth is greatest at half-past 12 and 11,
and least at 74 and 17 hours, the results, from the observations at
Toronto and Philadelphia, being remarkably coincident.

The next paper of the foregoing list is that by Dr. Dean, which
comprises the anatomy of the medulla oblongata, both human and
comparative, from the lowest roots of the hypoglossal nerve, through
the upper roots of the auditory, including the hypoglossal, nasal,
glossopharyngeal, abducens, facial, and auditory nerves. The ob-
jects of the investigation were principally as follows :

Ist. To illustrate the topography of the medulla oblongata by means
of aseries of photographs, which might completely map out all the

principal changes in structure as they successively occur, connected
with the development of the different nerves, with the details which
accompany the development of their nuclei and accessory ganglia.
2d. The study of the more minute histological details, such as the
course of the nerve roots, their entrance into their respective nuclei
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and connexion with nerve cells, the connexion of the nuclei with
each other by nerve fibres passing from the roots and from the nerve
cells, the structure of the olivary bodies which possess a peculiar
interest from their resemblance in convoluted structure to the cere-
brum and cerebellum.

3d. An attempt to show, notwithstanding the apparent difference of
structure between the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, a difference
which appears very considerable at first sight, that the plan of struc-
ture of the two is identical, that the general arrangement of parts
strictly corresponds, that the relation of the nerve roots to their
nuclei or cell groups is the same, and moreover the connexion estab-
lished between the different nuclei is carried out on the same plan.
The illustrations for this work were taken by the author himself
directly from the microscopic dissections by photography. For the
general edition the photographic illustrations have been copied on
stone with great care by L. H. Bradford. The steel plates were en-
eraved by J. W. Watts. Besides these, a limited number of photo-
graphic prints from the original negatives have been prepared by
Dr. Dean himself for private distribution, and from these negatives
other copies may be obtained either on direct application to the author
or through the medium of this Institution. ; .

This paper, which is the result of over two years of constant study,
was referred to Dr. W. A. Hammond, of the United States army,
and Professor Jefiries Wyman for critical examination, and was recom-
mended by them for publication as a valuable addition both to human
and to comparative anatomy.

The third paper accepted for publication is on the Paleontology
of the Upper Missouri, by F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden. _

This work contains figures and descriptions of all the known inver-
tebrate fossil remains of the various geological formations of Idaho,
Dakota, Nebraska, and portions of Kansas. About 370 species,
nearly all of which are new, are fully described, and the descriptions
are accompanigd by remarks on the relations of each species to allied
forms from other districts in this country and Europe, both living and
fossil—its geological range, geographical distribution, &c. The illus-
trations consist of about one thousand. carefully drawn figures, occu-
pying forty-five quarto plates.

In addition to full descriptions of species, the work also contains
extended accounts of all the genera to which these fossils bejong, with
the synonymy of each genus, and remarks on its affinities to other
genera, both living and extinct ; and assigns the probable period of ©
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. at

its introduction, the time when it appears to have attained its maxi-
mum development, and that at which it is supposed to have died out,
if not represented in our existing seas. At the head of each generic
description the etymology of the name and the type of the genus,
when known, are given. Full descriptions of each of the families
including these genera are likewise given ; and at the end of each
family description the names of all the genera, whether living or ex-
_ tinct. The introduction contains detailed descriptions of the various
formations in which these fossils existed, with remarks on their
synchronism with other American and European deposits.

A considerable portion of the specimens described and figured were
collected by Dr. F. V. Hayden in the several expeditions into the
regions of the Upper Missouri and Yellowstone, sent by the govern-
ment under the command of Lieutenant (now Major General) G. K.
Warren, of the United States Topographical Engineers, to whose
scientific zeal and liberal encouragement we are indebted for much of
the material upon which the work is fotnded. But besides these, a
large number were collected by Dr. Hayden himself previous to his
connexion with the exploring expeditions of the government. The
specific descriptions of the fossils described in this work are therefore
to be regarded as appearing, in the joint names of Meek and Hayden,
while the descriptions of the genera, and families, and the discussion
of their relations, geological range, geographical distribution, &c.,
are to be accredited to Mr. Meek alone.

The first sketch of this work was prepared as a part of the report
to Congress of the explorations of the above-mentioned regions, but
Mr. Meek has since devoted almost three years exclusively to extend-
ing and completing the investigations; and as it is probable that Con-
gress will make no provision for its publication, it has been adopted
by the Institution, at the earnest recommendation of several eminent
naturalists, and will be published in successive parts. All the speci-
mens described are in the collections of the Institution, and as saon
as the work is completed the numerous duplicates will be distributed,
as types of the species, to various scientific institutions at home and
abroad.

Miscellaneous Collections. —Several series of articles forming parts of
the Miscellaneous Collections, as stated in previous reports, have been
undertaken, of which some have been completed, some are still in
hand, and others have been printed during the past year.

The first of these series is that relating to the shells of North
America, and will consist of the following works :
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

1. Check lists of North American shells, by P. P. Carpenter, &c.

2. Circular relative to collecting shells.

3. Blementary introduction to the study of conchology, by P. P.
Carpenter.

4. List of the species of shells collected by the United States ex- .
ploring expedition, by the same author.

5. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the west coast of the
United States, Mexico, and Central America, by the same author.

6. Descriptive catalogue of the air-breathing shells of North
America, by W. G. Binney.

7. Descriptive catalogue of several genera of water-breathing fresh
water univalves, by the same author.

8. Descriptive catalogue of the Jiclaniade, or the remainder of the
water-breathing fresh water univalves, by George W. Tryon.

9. Descriptive catalogue of the Corbiculade or Cycladide, a group
of bivalves principally inhabiting fresh water, by Temple Prime.

10. Descriptive catalogue ‘of the Unionide, or fresh water mussels.

11. Descriptive catalogue of the shells of the eastern coast of the
United States, by William Stimpson.

12. Bibliography of North American conchology, by W. G.
Binney.

13. Check list catalogue of cretaceous and jurassic fossils of North
America, by F. B. Meek.

The first and second articles of this list were published in 1860, and
described in the report for that year. The third was published in
1861 as a part of the annual report for 1860. <A new edition would
have been printed before this time, as a part of the Miscellaneous
Collections, had we not been disappointed by a delay in procuring
the expected use of wood-cuts for the illustration of the work from
the British Museum. We have just learned, however, that the Mu-
seum has liberally granted the use of these wood-cuts; that they are
now being copied in stereotype in England; and consequently the
work will be completed without further delay.

The fourth and fifth articles are still in the hands of Mr. Carpenter,
who has reported progress, which leads us to expect that they will
be ready for the press during the present year.

Of the 6th, 7th, and 8th, the first draughts of the manuscripts
have been completed, and a preliminary sketch of the conclusions
of the authors as regards the names of the species has been printed
in the form of proof-sheets, and distributed to conchologists, with a
view to elicit criticisms and suggestions prior to final publication.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

Many important additions and corrections have been obtained in this
way which will add much to the value of the works. The request has
been made that these proof-sheets should not be considered as express:
ing the final views of the authors, but only intended to obtain the
information above mentioned.

The ninth article of the series, by Mr. Prime, is well advanced in
printing, and will be completed in 1864. In addition to the purely
North American species, it will contain descriptions and wood-cut
figures of those of Central and South America, as well as of the West
Indies, thus embracing all the members of the family found in the
New World.

The tenth and eleventh articles are still in process of preparation,
and the engraving of the wood-cuts for their illustration has com-
menced.

The twelfth article—the first part of the Bibliography of North
American conchology by Mr. Binney, mentioned in the last report as
in press—has been completed and distributed. It forms a volume
of 650 pages, and contains a list of the publications of American aug
thors relative to conchology in general. As might reasonably be
expected, some omissions have occurred of titles of papers overlooked
or not met with, but copies have been sent to all the working con-
chologists of the country, with the request to furnish rectifications and
additions to be: inserted in an appendix to the second part. This
second part, which is now in the press, is intended to include an
account of the writings of foreign naturalists relative .to American
conchology, and will also contain, beside the additions and corrections
of the first volume, copious indexes of authors and names of genera
and species. About 250 pages are stereotyped, and the whole work,
probably filling over 500 pages, will be finished during 1864.

The thirteenth article, check list by Mr. Meek, has been completed
and put to press. It contains a list of all the species of cretaceous
fossils described by authors up to the end of 1863, and will constitute
an important aid in the labor of cataloguing and labelling collections,
being prepared in the same style as that of the check-lists of North
American shells, published by the Institution some years ago, which
have been so much sought after by conchologists and amateurs.

Another series of works belonging to the miscellaneous collections
is intended to facilitate the study of American insects. Of this series
the several articles are as follows:

1. Instructions for collecting and preserving insects.

2. Catalogue of the described Diptera (flies, musquitoes, &c.) of
North America, by Baron Osten Sacken.
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

3. Catalogue of the described Lepidoptera (butterflies, moths, &c,)
of North America, by Dr. Jno. G. Morris.

4. Classification of the Coleoptera (beetles, &c.) of North America,
by Dr. Jno. L. Le Conte.

5. Synopsis of the described Neuroptera (dragon-flies, &c.) of North _
America, with a list of the South American species, by H. Hagen.

6. Synopsis of the described Lepidoptera of North America, part
i. Diurnal and Crepuscular Lepidoptera, by Dr. Jno. G. Morris.

7. List of the Coleoptera of North America, with descriptions of
new species, by Dr. Jno. L. Le Conte.

8. Monograph of the Diptera of North America, by Loew, with
additions, by Baron Osten Sacken.

9. Monographs of Homoptera and Hemiptera, (chinches, roaches,
&c.,) of North America, by P. R. Uhler.

10. Descriptive Catalogue of the Hymenoptera, (bees, wasps, &c.,)
of North America, by H. De Saussure.

These have all been described in previous reports.

* Of No. 8, (monograph of Diptera,) the first part was published in
1862. During the past year the second part has been printed, and
forms a volume of 339 pages. The manuscript of a third part is in
an advanced state of preparation by Dr. Loew, and when received
will, as in the case of the two preceding parts, be intrusted to Baron
Osten Sacken for translation under his direction. We must again, in
this connexion, express our obligations to Baron Osten Sacken for his
valuable assistance in the preparation and publication of these works.

Of No. 9, monographs of Homoptera and Hemiptera of North
America, by P. R. Uhler, the manuscript is nearly completed, and
will soon be received from the author.

Of No. 10, the manuscript of the first part (Catalogue of Hymenop-
tera) was received from the author during the past summer, and
placed in the hands of Mr. EH. Norton, of New York, who kindly
offered to translate it from the original French and superintend its
publication. It is now in the press, and will soon be completed.

In addition to the publications relating to shells and insects, the
following, belonging also to the Miscellaneous Collections, have been
prepared for the Institution:

1. Check-list of Minerals, by Thomas Egleston.

2. Instructions relative to Ethnology and Philology, by George
Gibbs.

3. Comparative Vocabulary, by George Gibbs.

4. Dictionary of the Chinook Jargon or Trade te of Oregon,
by George Gibbs.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

5. Monograph of the Bats of North America, by Dr. H. Allen,
United States army. .

No. 1 of these works has been prepared to aid in arranging and
cataloguing the Smithsonian collection of minerals and the distribu-
_ tion of duplicate specimens, but it will also be of value in facilitating
the study of mineralogy by furnishing printed labels and check-lists
for exchanges. It presents a list of all the described species of min-
erals, with their chemical symbols and systems of crystallization, indi-
cating those which are peculiar to the United States, the whole
arranged according to the method*adopted by Professor Dana in the
last edition of his Manual of Mineralogy. For important additions
and corrections, this work is indebted to the principal mineralogists
of this country, to whom the proofs were submitted, and especially
to Professor Dana, Professor Brush, and Dr. Genth. This list is
completed, and will shortly be ready for distribution.

No. 2 of these works was printed in the Smithsonian annual
report for 1861, but a large demand having arisen for it, it has been
reprinted with corrections and additions, and now includes instruc-
tions for philological observation, rules for recording sounds and vo-
cabularies, &c. In the latter part of the work Mr. Gibbs has received
important assistance from Professor W. D. Whitney, of Yale College.

It includes directions for the collection of various specimens, hints

for special inquiry, &c. Among the former are the skulls of Ameri-*
can Indians, which in some cases are difficult to obtain, on account
of the jealousy with which the natives guard the remains of their
dead. Numerous tribes, however, have become extinct, or have
removed from their former abodes. The remains of victims of war
are often left where they fall, and the bones of slaves and of the
friendless are neglected. Relics of these can be obtained without
offence to the living. It is, however, of essential importance that
most positive information should be obtained as to the nation or tribe to
which a particular skull belongs. This may frequently be learned
from the history of the migrations of the tribe, or from the character
of the ornaments and utensils found with it.
_ Among the specimens of art which are designated as desirable
are dresses, ornaments, bows and arrows, lances, saddles with their
furniture, models of lodges, cradles, mats, baskets, gambling imple-
ments, models of canoes, paddles, fish-hooks, carvings in wood and
stone, tools, &c.

American antiquities are especially indicated as objects of interest.
They include the tools found in the northern copper mines, articles
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

inclosed in mounds, images, pottery, also the contents of ancient
shell beds found on the sea-coast and bays, often deeply covered with
earth and overgrown with trees; human remains, or implements of
human manufacture, bearing the marks of tools or of subjection to fire,
found in caves, beneath deposits of stony material formed by drop-
pings from the roof; similar articles in salt-licks, likewise in deposits
of sand and gravel, or such as evidently belonging to the drift period.
Among other desiderata mentioned are the names of tribes, geo-
graphical position, number of individuals, physical constitution, such
as stature, proportion’of limbs, facial angle, color of skin, hair, and
eyes; inscriptions, ‘dress, food, dwellings, arts, trades, religion,
government, social life, ceremonies, mode of warfare, medicine,
literature, method’ of dividing time, history, &c.

These directions also include a list of words most important to be
used in forming the vocabulary of a language. The pamphlet con-
sists of thirty-four pages, and is distributed gratuitously to all who
are desirous of aiding investigations of this character.

No. 3 is a vocabulary of the principal words of which the
equivalents are desired in the languages of the American Indians.
It has been prepared with, great care by Mr. Gibbs after the usual
models, presenting in parallel columns the words selected in English;
French, Spanish, and Latin, leaving a blank column to be filled by
the required equivalents in the dialect of any given tribe. It forms
a pamphlet of eighteen pages, including two hundred and eleven
different words, and is printed on letter paper? for convenience in
filling up the blanks.

No. 4, the Chinook Jargon, is a collection of phrases made up
from various languages, Indian and civilized, and constitutes the sole
medium of communication with the Indian tribes of the northwest.
In 1853 the Smithsonian Institution published a brief dictionary of
this language, from a French manuscript presented by Dr. B. R.
Mitchell and edited by Professor W. W. Turner. The article was
in great demand, and the edition was soon exhausted. Mr. Gibbs,
having paid particular attention to the Jargon during his long resi-
dence in Washington Territory, kindly offered to prepare a new
edition with corrections and additions. This offer was readily ac-
cepted, and the dictionary has been published during the past year.

The vocabulary of the Chinook contains words of two dialects, the
Chinook proper and the Clatsop, and perhaps also of the Wakiakum.
The nation or rather family to which the generic name Chinook has
been applied, formerly inhabited both banks of the Columbia river
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. at

from its mouth to the Grand Dalles, a distance of about one hundred |
and seventy miles, and was, as is usual among the sedentary Indians
of the west, broken up into numerous bands. Mr. Hale, in his Eth-
nography of the United States Exploring. Expedition, has divided
these into the Upper and Lower Chinook. The present vocabulary
belongs to those nearest the mouth of the river, of which there were
five principal bands. The language of the bands further up the river
departs more and more widely from the Chinook proper ; indeed, so
much so that the lower Indians could not have understood the upper
ones without an interpreter. This vocabulary is not as full as could
be wished, and the only reason for publishing it in its present condition
is that the Indians speaking the language are so nearly extinct that
no better digest is likely to be made in future.

In regard to the 5th article of the above series, the Monograph of
Bats of North America, it may be stated that the mammalia of this
continent have been studied and described generally by Audubon,
‘Bachman, and also by Professor Baird of this Institution. These
authors, however, have not included in their descriptions the cheirop-
tera, or bats. * To supply this deficiency, Dr. Allen, of Philadelphia,
has given his attention for several years to the careful study of
the specimens of this animal in the principal museums of this country,
and has presented the result of his labors to the Institution in the
form of the monograph above mentioned. In this a detailed descrip-
tion is given of each of the genera and species with wood-cut figures of
the skulls, heads, eass, and tails of such species as require this mode of
illustration. The wood-cuts of this paper have been completed and
the manuscript is now in the hands of the printer.

I may mention that the Institution is indebted to Mr. Figaniere,
Portugese minister, for a very graphic account of an immense assem-
blage of bats which had been colonized for years in the upper part
of a mansion house which he had purchased in Maryland. This ac-
count will be republished in the appendix to this report, as well as
in the paper of Dr. Allen just described.

Reports.—The annual reports to Congress are printed at the ex-
pense of the government as public documents, with the exception of
the wood-cuts, the cost of which is paid by the Institution. Previous
to 1853 the reports were principally confined to an exposition of the
operations of the Institution, and were published in pamphlet form;
but since that date an appendix has been added to each report, which,
with the other matter, has increased the size to that of a volume of
four hundred and fifty pages. These reports now form a series of ten
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

volumes, beginning with that of 1853, and in order that this series
might contain a history of the Institution from the beginning, the will
of Smithson, the enactments of Congress-in regard to it, and the sev-
eral reports of the Secretary, previous to 1853, were republished in
the appendix to that volume.

The report for 1862 contains, in the appendix, a eulogy on the late
Senator Pearce, by Professor Bache ; a course of lectures on Polarized
Light, by F. A. P. Barnard, late president of the University of Mis-
sissippi; a course of lectures on Kthnology, by Professor Daniel
Wilson, of the University of Toronto ; an introduction to a course of
lectures on the Study of High Antiquity, by A. Morlot, of Switzer-
land, translated for the Institution by the author ; an account ‘of
the Articles on Archelogy, published by the Smithsonian Institution,
copied from the ‘‘ Natural History Review,’’ of Engfand ; a history
of the French Academy of Sciences; eulogies on Von Buch and
Thenard, a continuation of the series of memoirs of distinguished
members of the French Academy, translated by C. A. Alexander, -
esq.; a Memoir of Isidore St. Hilaire, by Quatrefages, translated by
a lady ; a prize Memoir on the Catalytic Force, by T. L. Phipson ;
on Atoms, by Sir John Herschel ; Classification of Books, by J. P.
Lesley ; Account of Human Remains from Patagonia, and Prize
Questions of Scientific Societies.

Of this report the usual number of 10,000 copies was printed, of
which 4,000 copies were given to the Institution, to be distributed in
accordance with the following rules: ‘

1. To all the meteorological observers who send records of the
weather to the Institution.

2. To the collaborators of the Institution.

3. To donors to the museum and library.

4, To colleges and other educational establishments.

5. To pubtic libraries, and literary and scientific societies.

6. To teachers, or individuals who are engaged in special studies,
and who make direct application for them.

Owing to the many changes which have taken place in the resi-
dence and occupation of the correspondents of the Institution since
the commencement of the war, it has not been thought advisable to
send the reports to all whose names are on the record of distribution,
but in most cases to wait until direct application is made by letter or
otherwise fora copy of the work. Whenever a report is sent to any
address a separate announcement is made of the fact enclosing @
blank receipt to be signed and returned to the Institution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

On account of the large amount of printing required by the gov-
ernment in consequence of the war, the public printing office has been
taxed to its utmost power ;,documents not required for immediate
use have been delayed, and among others the report of the Institution
for 1862 is still not quite completed. It is expected, however, that
it will be ready for distribution in the course of a few weeks. The
number of copies of the report ordered to be printed by Congress
has varied in different years, and consequently in the increasing de-
mand some of the volumes have been entirely exhausted. It may be
a matter of consideration whether a new edition of the report for
1856, and perhaps for other years, might not be reprinted. To pre-
vent the future exhaustion of the supply of the reports, Congress
authorized the stereotyping of the last volume and the printing at any
time, from the plates, of the whole or any part of its contents.

In view of the great cost of paper and the space required for storage,

it has been thought advisable to stereotype the Contributions and Mis-
cellaneous Collections, and to strike off only as many copies of each
article as are required for immediate distribution. By the adoption
of this plan, the ability to supply, to any extent, copies of works
published hereafter will always exist, while no more need be printed
than are actually required.
_ Ethnology.—From the first, the Institution has given considerable
attention to the various branches of ethnology. Besides the addi-
tions to Indian archelogy which are to be found in the several
volumes of its Contributions to Knowledge, it has published : everal
papers on languages. In the report for 1860, a list of original manu-
scripts was given relating to the languages of the northwest cast of
America, which had been received through the assistance of Mu. Alex-
ander 8S. Taylor, of Monterey, California.

Several of these were copied at the expense of the Inst:tution,
with the intention of securing their preservation and subsequent pub-
lication. It has also been stated that a number of these manuscripts
had been presented to Mr. J. G. Shea, of New York, to be published
in a series which he has established under the title of ‘‘ Library of
American’ Linguistics.’? By presenting these to Mr. Shea for pub-
lication and purchasing from him for distribution to learned societies
a number of copies, encouragement has been given to a laudable en-
terprize, undertaken solely to promote a favorite branch of learning,
and with but little comparative expense to the Smithsonian fund. I
regret, however, to state that the diminution of the effective income
of the Institution will prevent further appropriations at present for
this purpose. The following is a list of the works of Mr. Shea’s
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

series, of which the Institution has aided the publication by purchas-
ing copies for distribution:

1. Grammar of the Mutsun language, spoken at the mission of San
Juan Bautista, Alta California; by Father Felipe Arroyo de la
Cuesta.

2. Vocabulary of the language of San Antonio mission, California,
by Father Bonaventure Sitjar.

3. Grammar and dictionary of the Yakama language, by Rev. Mie.
Cles. Pandosy. .

4, Vocabulary or Phrase Book of the Mutsun language, of Alta
California, by Rev. Father Felipe Arroyo de la Cuesta.

5. Grammar of the Pima or Névome, a language of Sonora, from
a manuscript of the XVIII century.

The first of these, the Mutsun grammar, was described in the last
report. The second, the vocabulary of the native inhabitants of
the San Antonio, or Sext&pay, mission ; it was printed from a manu-
script forwarded to the Institution by Alexander S. Taylor, of Cali-
fornia. The mission of San Antonio de Padua was founded in 1771.
in the Sierra of Santa Lucia, twenty-five leagues southwest of Mon-
terey ; the authors of this vocabulary being the first missionaries.
The tribe is sometimes knownas Tatché, or Telamé, though Mr. Taylor
calls it Sextapay. It is gradually disappearing ; not more than fifty
Indians still remain, although it is said they were, at one time, so
numerous that the dialects spoken by them amounted to twenty.

The third is the grammar and dictionary of the Yakamas, a people
inhabiting the region of the Yakama river—a stream rising in the
Cascade range of mountains, and emptying into the Columbia above
the junction of the Snake river. The name signifies the ‘‘ stony
ground,’’ in allusion to the rocky character of the country. The au-
thor of the grammar, Father Pandosy, was for many years a resident
among these Indians, and became well acquainted with their language.
In the destruction of the buildings of the mission by fire, during the
Indian war in Washington Territory, the original of the grammar was .
lost, and the translation, published by Mr. Shea, which was made
some time previously, alone remained. It is to be regretted that a
more extended dictionary than the one now published was also de-
stroyed at the same time.

The fourth article is a vocabulary of the same language, of which
the grammar constitutes the first of this series, and is by the same
author ; the words are given in the Mutsun and Spanish languages.

The fifth, the grammar of the Pima, with a vocabulary in the same
language and in Spanish, was obtained in Toledo, Spain, and tran;-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Si

lated by Buckingham Smith, esq. This manuscript was probably
taken to Spain after the suppression of the order of the Jesuits in
Mexico, in 1767. The Pima language was spoken by the tribes from
the river Yaqui, in Sonora, northward to the Gila, and even beyond
the Colorado, eastward beyond the mountains in the province of
Taraumara, and westward to the sea of Cortez. The phrases given
in these works will preserve the knowledge of what constituted the
food of the inhabitants ; their manner of living, their character, and
native customs, &c. This may prove of historic interest hereafter,
if the facts be nowhere else more circumstantially authenticated.

Meteorology.—From 1856 to 1861 an appropriation was made from
the agricultural fund of the Patent Office for assistance to the Insti-
tution in collecting and reducing statistics relative to the climate of
the United States. This was commenced while the Patent Office was
under the direction of Judge Mason, but was suddenly discontinued
under a change of administration. The pr8priety of an appropriation
for this purpose, from the fund above mentioned, must be evident to
every one who reflects on the intimate connexion between meteorology
and agriculture. A knowledge of the peculiarities of the climate of
a country is an essential requisite for the adoption of a system of
scientific culture. The average temperature of the spring, autumn,
and of the growing season; the ratio of the number of unfavor-
able to favorable years; the amount of rain, and moisture ; the
average time of the occurrence of late and early frosts, are all facts
of importance in the economical adaptation of the crops to a given lo-
eality, in order to obtain the maximum of produce from a definite
amount of labor.

The money received from the Patent Office was expended in assist-
ing to defray the expense of the reductions of the observations, and
as soon as the appropriation was stopped we were obliged to discon-
‘tinue this part of the operations. The Institution, however, still con-
tinues to derive some benefit from its association with the Patent
Office, in receiving through it, free of postage, the returned registers
from the different observers.

Unfortunately, the postage law adopted at the last session of Con-
gress prevents the correspondents on agriculture and meteorology
from sending their reports by mail unless prepaid. This arrange-
ment almost entirely stops the reception of these articles, for, since
the service rendered is gratuitous, the observers cannot be expected
to bear this additional burden. It is to be hoped that Congress will
so modify the law as to remove this obstruction to a correspondence
of great importance to the agricultural interests of the country.
" 39 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Owing to this restriction, the number of meteorological registers
received during the past year has been diminished, and the transmis-
sion of nearly all of them would have been discontinued had not
the Commissioner of Agriculture, in view of their value to his
department, decided to advance to some of the observers the neces-
sary postage stamps to affix to their registers. He would willingly
have sent stamps to all, but the tax would have been too heavy for
the office; he therefore found it necessary to limit the number,
and in doing so endeavored to make such a selection as would secure
registers from districts distributed as uniformly as possible in all the
States. Those observers, therefore, who have not been supplied
with stamps should infer from this no disparagement of their observa-
tions, for among those who have been omitted from the list are
some whose registers are highly prized for their regularity and
accuracy.

Before it was known that this arrangement would be made by the
Commissioner a circular was sent from this Institution to all the ob-
servers, mentioning the new feature in the postage law, and requesting
them to continue their observations, and retain the records until the
law should be modified, or some arrangement could be made by which
the observers would not be subject to the burden of postage.*

Under the new organization of the Department of Agriculture a
renewed interest has been manifested by the Commissioner in the
collection of meteorological statistics, and he has expressed the desire
to co-operate with this Institution in continuing and extending the
system of records of the weather which it had established with so
much labor and expense.

In order to obtain and diffuse a knowledge of facts of immediate
importance to agriculturists, the Commissioner has commenced the
publication of a monthly bulletin giving the state of the crops, the
condition of the weather, and various other items of importance which
are daily received from observers, and which would lose a considerable
portion of their value were they suffered to remain unpublished until
the end of the year. For this bulletin the Institution supplies the
meteorological materials, consisting of the mean, maximum, and
minimum temperature and amount of rain for each month in different
States, and also, for the purpose of comparison, the mean temperature
and amount of rain for a series of five years, grouped by States ;

* This law has been changed since the above was written, and observers can send their
meteorological registers, or other communications, to the ‘‘ Commissioner of Agriculture,” with
out prepayment of postuge.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

together with tables of important atmospheric changes, and notices
of auroras, meteors, and other periodical phenomena. The publica-
tion has been received with much favor by agriculturists, and is
regarded with great interest by the observers, who are thus fur-
nished promptly with a general summary of the principal features
of the meteorology of each month in all parts of the country, with
which they can compare their own observations.

In view of the value of the information thus furnished by the
Institution, it is hoped that the previous appropriation will be
renewed, and that the reductions which have been discontinued for
the last four years may be resumed.

The second volume of the Results of Meteorological Observations
made for the Institution, from 1854 to 1859, and reduced by Professor
Coffin, is still in the press, its completion being delayed by the great
pressure, upon the public printing office, of government work relative
to the war. ;

We are indebted to the courtesy of Captain (now General) George
G. Meade, of the topographical engineers, superintendent of the
survey of the north and northwestern lakes, and of his successor in
office, Lieutenant Colonel J. D. Graham, for a continuation of the
favor formerly extended to the Institution in furnishing us with copies
of the meteorological observations made at the different stations estab-
lished for the survey. These records are very valuable, being made
with full sets of instruments and at important places. They em-
brace observations made three times a day, at the same hours with
the Smithsonian system, 7 a. m. and 2 and 9 p. m., and at ten sta-
tions, extending from Superior City in the State of Wisconsin, at the
western extremity of Lake Superior, to Sackett’s Harbor in New
York, on the east end of Lake Ontario.

The Bureau of Medicine and Surgery of the Navy Department also
continues to furnish us with the meteorological records kept at the
naval hospitals at Chelsea, New York, and Philadelphia.

For several years previous to the commencement of the war a large
map was exhibited in the Smithsonian Institution on which was daily
represented the direction of the wind and face of the sky over the
greater portion of the United States; and in previous reports we have
frequently called attention to the fact that a properly organized sys-
tem for giving daily or half daily changes of the weather in distant
parts of the United States would be of great practical importance to
the shipping interests of the country; we have also stated the fact
that we are much more favorably situated for predicting the coming

38
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

weather than the meteorologists of Europe. The storms in our lati-
tude generally move from west to east, and, since our seaboard is on
the eastern side of a great continent, we can have information of the
approaching storm while it is still hundreds of miles to the west of us.
Not so with the meteorologists of Europe, since they reside on the
western side of a continent, and can have no telegraphic dispatches
from the ocean. The proposition, however, to furnish constant
information of this kind could not be carried out by the limited
means of the Smithsonian Institution, and, indeed, can only be
rendered properly and fully serviceable.under the direction and at the
expense of the government.

New and interesting features have been introduced into the daily
meteorological bulletin published by the Imperial Observatory at
Paris. As mentioned in the last report, these bulletins are litho-
graphed each day from records of the barometer, thermometer, wind,
and face of the sky, compiled from telegraphic reports transmitted to
the observatory from various parts of Europe. In addition to these,
they now contain daily a small outline chart of Europe upon which
are drawn diagrams showing the barometric curve of the day through
the various stations, together with the temperature and direction and
force of the wind. For the use of vessels about to leave port, a state-
ment is also given of what will probably be the direction of the wind
the next day. Chambers of commerce and intelligent seamen have
acknowledged in strong language the benefit of these daily bulletins,
thus adding to the ever-accumulating testimony in favor not only of
the speculative interest but also practical benefits of meteorology.‘
At Bordeaux, Havre, and other important ports, as soon as the bul-
letins are received, the telegraphic announcement of the weather and
the probable direction of wind for the following day are posted in
public places and furnished to the principal newspapers for publica- —
tion. The bulletin also contains extracts from the correspondents of
the observatory on astronomical and other subjects as well as meteo-
rology. With the number for December 20, a supplement was issued
with a diagram exhibiting the indications of the self-registering instru-
ments at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, during the great storm
on the English coast in the first three days of December, 1863.

Laboratory.—The principal work which has been done in the
laboratory during the past year is an extended series of experiments
on the properties of different kinds of oil intended for light-house
purposes. For a number of years past the price of sperm oil has
been constantly increasing, and from a dollar per gallon it had ad-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

vanced last year to two dollars and forty-three cents. It became,
therefore, animportant matter to the Light-house Board to determine
whether some other burning material could not be introduced in the
place of so expensive an article. The investigation of this subject
was given in charge to myself, as the chairman of the Committee on
Experiments. The result of the investigations not only revealed
a number of new phenomena. of interest to science, but also estab-
lished the important practical fact of the superiority of winter
strained lard oil over standard sperm oil in the intensity of the light,
the steadiness and persistence of the flame, and the less care required
in attendance. This fact must have an important bearing on the cost
of lighting the extended coast of the United States, as well as upon
the commercial value of one of the staple products of the western
part of our Union. The price of lard oil is, at present, considerably
less than one-half of that of sperm, and while the supply of sperm oil
has remained stationary, or even diminished with an increasing de-
mand, the sources of lard oil in the country are abundant, and the
quantity which can be produced will be sufficient to meet almost an
unlimited consumption.

Another series of experiments was made for determining the proper
arrangements of reflectors and lenses for illuminating distant ob-
jects either by the electric or the calciumlight. These experiments
were instituted at the suggestion of the Navy Department, but as no
appropriation was made for their being carried into practice, they
were discontinued, and the knowledge obtained remains unapplied.

Collections of specimens of natural history, &c.—In several of the
preceding reports a distinction has been drawn between the collec-
tion of specimens of natural history made through the agency of
this Institution, and what is called the Smithsonian museum. The
object of making large collections of duplicate specimens is, first, to
advance science by furnishing to original investigators new materials
for critical study; and second, to assist in diffusing knowledge, by
providing colleges, academies, and other educational establishments,
with labelled specimens to illustrate the various productions of nature,
while the principal end to be attained by the public museum of the
Institution is the gratification and instruction of the inhabitants and
visitors of the city of Washington.

The collecting and distributing of a large number of specimens, for
the purpose stated, is an important means of increasing and diffusing
knowledge, and, as such, is in strict accordance with the will of the
founder of the Institution. It has, therefore, from the first received
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

much attention, and has been attended with a commensurate amount
of beneficial results. Among the collections received during the past
year have been specimens of great interest, either the results of
explorations, undertaken by the Institution, or of exchanges with
individuals or local societies. The materials thus collected belong
principally to two classes, namely, to specimens of new or rare forms
intended to advance natural history and duplicates of such as are to
be labelled and distributed for the purposes of education. Among

the former are the collections of Mr. Kennicott, whose explorations ||

have been mentioned in previous reports.. They are of a very valu-
able character, illustrating the natural history and ethnology of. the
northwestern portions of the continent of North America. The
specimens received in 1863, from this exploration, filled forty boxes
and packages, weighing, in the aggregate, 3,000 pounds. They em-
brace in the line of natural history thousands of skins of mammals

and birds, eggs, nests, skeletons, fishes, insects, fossils, plants, &c. *
In the line of ethnology are skulls, dresses, weapons, implements, |

utensils. instruments of the chase, in short, all the requisite material
to illustrate the peculiarities of the Esquimaux and different tribes of
Indians inhabiting the northwest regions.

In addition to the collections obtained from the British possessions
in North America, by Mr. Kennicott, specimens have been received
from other points and other parties. Among these are a series of |
birds and eggs from Labrador, gathered by Mr. Henry Connolly, and.
a large amount of new material from Mexico, collected by John Xantus, —
under the auspices and at the expense of the Institution, consisting of
birds, fishes, reptiles, shells, &c. Another series from the same country’
has been presented by Dr. Sartorius, who has, for a number of years,
been one of the meteorological observers of the Institution. Inter-:
esting collections have been received, also, from Dr. A. Van Frantzius, |
of Costa Rica; from Mr. Osbert Salvin, of Guatemala; from Captain)
J. M. Dow, of Panama; specimens from Cuba have been presented!
by Mr. C. Wright and Prof. Poey; from Trinidad, by Mr. Galody,,
United States consul; from Jamaica, by Mr. W. T. March; from Ecua-:
dor, by the Hon. C. T. Buckalew, now of the United States Senate.
A valuable contribution of birds and mammals has also been received.
from Prof. Sumichrast, of Orizaba. These collections are all intended
to illustrate the natural history of the American continents, to the
investigation of whose extended regions the Institution has especially
directed its labors. |

In order to facilitate the preparation of a work on the birds of
America, by Prof. Baird, a circular from the Institution was dis-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. at

tributed through the State Department to the consular and diplomatic
agents of the United States in Central and South America, asking aid
in completing the collection of birds, and we doubt not that much
new and valuable material will thus be obtained.

The following are the rules which have been adopted in regard to
the disposition and use of the collections:

First. To advance original science, the duplicate type specimens
are distributed as widely as possible to scientific institutions in this
and other countries, to be used in identifying the species and genera
which have: been described.

Second. For the purposes of education, duplicate sets of specimens,
properly labelled, are presented to colleges and other institutions of
learning in this country.

Third. These donations are made on condition that due ae is to
be given the Institution in the labelling of the specimens, and in all

- accounts which may be published of them.

Fourth. Specimens are presented to foreign institutions, on condi-
tion that if type specimens are wanted for comparison or other use
in this country they will be furnished when required.

Fifth. In return for specimens which may be presented to colleges
and other institutions, collections from localities in their vicinity shall
be furnished when wanted.

In the disposition of the undescribed specimens of the collection,
the following considerations have been observed as governing prin-
ciples:

first. The original specimens are not to be intrusted for descrip-
tion to inexperienced persons, but to those only who have given evi-
dence of ability properly to perform the work.

Second. Preference is to be given to those who have been engaged
in the laborious and difficult enterprise of making complete mono-
graphs.

Third. The investigator may be allowed, in certain cases, to take
the specimens to his place of residence, and to retain them for study
a reasonable time.

Fourth. The use of the specimens is only to be allowed on condition
that a series of types for the Smithsonian museum will be selected
and properly labelled, and the whole returned in good condition.

Fifth. In any publications which may be made of results derived from
an investigation of the materials from the Smithsonian collection, full
credit must be accorded to the Institution for the facilities which
have been afforded.
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

During the past year the assorting and labelling of the specimens
have been continued, as well as the distribution of duplicates.

The whole number of entries on the record book of the Smithsonian
collection, at the end of the year 1861, was 66,075; at the end of
1862, 74,764, and at the end of 1863, 86,847; but each entry indi-
cates a lot consisting of a number of specimens. The whole number
of duplicate specimens distributed to different institutions in this
country and abroad, up to the end of the year 1863, has been 94,713.
As these specimens are distributed on the express condition that full
credit is to be given to the Institution on the labels, and in all pub-
lications which may relate to them, the name of Smithson, even
through this distribution alone, would become familiarly known in
every part of the civilized world.

It has been, from the first, one of the prominent objects of the
Institution to collect the most ample materials for illustrating the
entire natural history of North America; to determine the different
species of plants and of animals; to ascertain the distribution of the
former, and the migrations of the ltter. This object it has endea-
vored to accomplish through the agency of the different surveying
expeditions of government ; through explorations instituted at its own
expense, and by enlisting the co-operation of individuals interested
in science, and of local scientific societies. In all its efforts in this
line it has been heartily supported, and it is believed that its labors
have been productive of valuable results. The collections thus made
have been intrusted to competent investigators for examination and
description, and the results published in the different Smithsonian
series, in transactions of societies, and in various government reports.
For a list of what has already been prepared and published, either
by the Institution or under its direction, I would refer to a report on
this subject in preparation by Professor Baird.

’ Museum.—The additions to the museum, in the line of natural his-
tory, are principally confined to the type specimens which have been
collected and described at the expense of the general government, or
under the immediate auspices of the Institution. Even thus restricted,
the specimens increase in number more rapidly than the portion of
the Smithsonian fund which can be devoted to their support will
authorize. Few persons have an idea of the labor, constant care, and
expense which attends the proper preservation of a series of objects
of natural history ; but those who have had the necessary experience
know that large miscellaneous collections can only be properly sup-
ported by governments , and, in the establishment of provincial socie-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

ties, the rule has been strongly recommended of attempting to pre-
serve nothing except what is strictly local. ‘‘It is the experience
of societies,’’? says Dr. Jardine,* the celebrated Scotch naturalist,
‘‘that general collections are encumbrances, and in most instances
vet destroyed for want of care, or they are dispersed. Within these
few years the really fine and valuable collection of the Zoological
Society of London, chiefly presented by the late N. A. Vigors, a
first-rate scholar and naturalist, and containing many unique things
from our scientific exploratory voyages, has-been sold. That of the
Entomological Society has also been sold, and the greater part of that
belonging to the Linnzan Society was sold during the last month,
because there was not sufficient space to keep what had been pre-
sented to them. The collection of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
is now undergoing the same process.’’

During the past year the work of labelling the specimens in the
museum, so that the common, as well as the scientific name of each
article may be distinctly exhibited, has been continued.

Explorations.—The only explorations during the past year, under
the auspices and at the expense of the Institution, are, Ist, the con-
tinuation of that of Mr. Xantus on the western coast of Mexico ; and,
2d, that by Mr. Meek in New Jersey and the lower part of Virginia.
The explorations of Mr. Xantus extended several hundred miles
along the western coast of Mexico in a region little known, and very
abundant in interesting objects.

The exploration of Mr. Meek related to the collection of complete
series of shells to illustrate the tertiary formation of the seaboard of
New Jersey and Virginia. Several series of shells were obtained,
which are in the process of being accurately labelled, and are intended
for distribution to some of the principal colleges of the country.

Exchanges.—The important aid rendered to science and literature
by the system of international exchange which has for many years
been actively carried on by the Institution, is still everywhere highly
appreciated. Our operations in this line are becoming more and
more extensive, requiring an additional amount of time, labor, and
attention, as well as largely increasing in expense. ‘The great liber-
ality of many of the transportation companies alone enables us to
carry on the system in its present extent, and we again tender our
acknowledgments, especially to the following parties, who have

* Address of Sir W. Jardine, president of the Dumfriesshire and Galloway Natyral History
and Antiquarian Society, December, 1863
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

assisted us in this respect: The North German Lloyd, between Bre-
men and New York; the Hamburg and New York steamship line ;
the Cunard line ; the Panama Railroad Company ; the Pacific Mail
Steamship Company ; Adams’s Express Company, and the Hudson’s
Bay Company.

During the past year it was deemed advisable to establish a new
agency of exchanges for Holland and Belgium, and Mr. Fred.
Muller, bookseller, at Amsterdam, who was appointed the agent,
has entered upon the discharge of his duties with zeal and efficiency.
The numbers of the transactions of the societies in the countries
referred to necessary to complete the sets in the Smithsonian library,
as well as much other valuable scientific and literary material, have
been procured by him. The other foreign agents of the Institution
are still Dr. Felix Flugel, Leipsic, Mr. Wesley, London, and Gustave
Bossange, Paris.

From the tabular statement given by Professor Baird, it appears
that during the year 1863 there have been sent to foreign countries
1,426 packages, each containing a number of articles, enclosed in 61
boxes, measuring 447 cubic feet, and weighing 10,286 pounds. The
number of packages received in return for societies and individuals in
this country was 1,522, included in which, for the Smithsonian Insti-

tution, were 4,589 books and pamphlets, besides specimens of natural
history.

Iibrary.—The policy in regard to the library as has frequently
been previously stated, is to form a collection as perfect as possible
of all the tranactions and proceedings of the learned societies of the
world. The success of the Institution in this enterprise has been fully
commensurate with the expectations entertained, and the collection of
works of this class, if the accumulation continues under the same favor-
able conditions, will soon rival any other of a like kind in the world.
The liberal distribution which the Institution has made of its own pub-
lications and those of government has produced a rich return in series
of transactions which, although existing as duplicates in some of the
older libraries of Europe, can scarcely be obtained by purchase.

It was mentioned in the last report that the number of transactions
and proceedings of learned societies contained in the library of the
Institution had increased so much that a new edition of the cata-
logue previously published had become necessary. This work has
- since been put to press, and will be printed as rapidly as the care
necessary to insure acccuracy will permit. Copies of this catalogue

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

will be distributed to all the principal libraries of the country, and
with the liberal policy which has been adopted in regard to the books
of the Smithsonian collection, will serve to render the library more
generally useful.

By exchanges there have been received 719 octavos, 167 quartos,
and 24 folios ; of parts of volumes and pamphlets, in octavo, 2,119 ;
in quarto, 779; in folio, 581; maps and charts 200 ; total, 4,589.
In addition to these about 400 volumes were purchased.

Among the valuable works received during the year, are the fol-
lowing : ;

55 volumes from the Royal Library of Stockholm.

Comptes-Rendus, 1859, 1860, 1861, with atlas, from the Commission
Imperiale Ar chelogique, St. Petersburg. .
12 volumes and 18 parts of volumes from the Koninlijk Institut des

Ingenieurs, d’ Gravenhage.

52 volumes and 94 pamphlets from the Nederlandsch Maatschappig
ter Bevordering van Nijverheid, Haarlem.

10 volumes of its own publications from the Société pour la recherche
et la conservation des Monuments Historiques du Grand Duché de
Luxembourg, Luxembourg.

24 volumes‘and 12 parts from the Kaiserliche Akademie der Wis-
senschaften, Vienna.

9 volumes and 29 charts from the Etablissement Géographique de
Bruxelles.

21 volumes of Proceedings from the Société d’ Agriculture, Com-
merce, Science et Arts du Dept. de la Marne.

24 volumes of Proceedings and Transactions from the Institution
of Civil Engineers, London.

36 volumes and 114 charts from the Board of Admiralty, London.

Large donations from the Royal University of Norway.

Braddam’s Memoirs of the Royal Society of London, vol. ja. a
1745, from Mrs. Mary A. Malthie, Syracuse, New York.

26 volumes from the Regents of the University in behalf of the
State of New York.

Lectures.—The usual course of lectures has been commenced for the
present season, and will embrace the following :

Five lectures, by Rev. John Lord, of New York, on the ‘* Fall of
the Roman Empire.’’ Subjects—I. The grandeur and glory of the
Ancient Civilization—The external splendor of the Roman Em-
pire in its latter days. II. The internal hollowness and defects
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the old Roman civilization—The shame and miseries of society—
The vices of self-interest, and preparation for violence and inev-
itable ruin. III. The fall of the empire, and the desolations pro-
duced by the barbarians—The destruction of the old fabric of so-
ciety. IV. The reasons why the old conservative influences of
paganism did not arrest the ruin—The failure of art, literature, and
science, and the mechanism of governments. V. The reasons why
Christianity did not save the Empire, and the ideas which the church
incorporated with subsequent civilizations—The foundation of the
new Teutonic structure.

Three lectures, by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts, on the ‘‘ Glacial period.”
- One lecture, by Professor J. L. Campbell, of Wabash College, on
‘* Galileo.’’

Seven lectures, by Dr. Reinhold Solger, on ‘‘ The Races of Men.’’

Six lectures, by Professor W. D. Whitney, of Yale College, on
“Philology.’ I. History and objects of linguistic science—Plan of
these lectures—Why and how do we speak English—How language
is preserved and perpetuated—Its constant change—The study of
language an historical science. II. Ilustration of the processes of
growth and change in language—Formation of words by combination
of old materials— Mutilation and corruption of existing forms—Change
and development of meaning—Rate of progress of these changes.
III. Statement and illustration of the influences causing the growth
of dialects, and those checking and counteracting this growth—Our
language a Germanic dialect, with partly French vocabulary
languages with which it is related—Branches of the Indo-European
family of languages, and proof that they are of common descent—
Place, period, and grade of civilization of the original tribe. IV. His-
torical and linguistic importance of the Indo-European race and lan-

euage—History of the language—Its development from monosyllabic
roots. V. Survey of the other great families of language, Semitic,
Scythian, Chinese, Polynesian, Egyptian, African, and American—
Isolated languages not included in these families. VI. Comparative
value of linguistic and physical evidence of race, and their relative
bearing on the science of ethnology—Relation of the study of language
to the question of the unity of the human race—origin of language—
Its character and value to the human race.*

The number of applications for the use of the lecture-room has

* A synopsis of this course of lectures has been furnished by the author for insertion in the
appendix to this report.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. . 43

been much less since the adoption of the rule restricting its use to
the purposes of the Institution exclusively has become more gener-
ally known. This rule, which has been widely approved of by the
- enlightened public, has precluded a large amount of unprofitable cor-
respondence and enabled the Institution to avoid an embarrassing and
inauspicious connexion with sensational expositions of the exciting
subjects of the day.

From the preceding account of the present condition of the Insti-
tution, and of its operations during the past year, as well as from the
examination of the collections and publications, it is hoped that, not-
withstanding the unfavorable condition of the country for scientific
research, and the diminished means at our command, it will appear
that the line of policy and of action originally adopted has been pur-
sued with unabated ardor and with corresponding success.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
WASHINGTON, 1864. .

‘
‘

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1863.
Sir: I have the honor to present herewith a report, for 1863, of the opera-’
tions intrusted to my charge, consisting especially of those relating to the
printing, the exchanges, and the collections of natural history.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Prof. Joseru Henry, LL.D.,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

PRINTING.

An accompanying table will show the works printed during the year, and
also those now in press. ‘The total number of pages belonging to works finished
within the year is:

OE quarto papers... .-<.---- tee cise alee ee nie ae 350 pages, 3 plates.
Octavo Miscellaneous Collections -:-..2.----:------ 1,313 pages.

Of works still in press there have been printed :

Of quarto WWOLIGA MAIDOUb. cater eis ean ei ie 108 pages.
(Cro a: S ae ee rere pinen paar. rexiixsur that seme enemT as: Revie 443 pages.

_ Making a total of 458 quarto pages, and 1,756 octavo, exclusive of the annual
report to Congress, nearly finished, and to fill 450 pages.

EXCHANGES AND TRANSPORTATION.

The system of exchanges has been in a highly successful condition during
1863, both the receipts and transmissions being fully equal to the average of
any previous year. The attendant expenses of this branch of operations are,
however, great and increasing, and would long since have become almost pro-
hibitory but for the liberality exhibited by various transportation companies in
carrying the boxes and parcels cf the Institution free of any charges for freight. It
is not too much to say that thousands of dollars are thus presented by the com-
panies as a recognition on their part of the great importance, domestic as well
as international, of these operations of the Institution. Ameng the parties de-
serving of especial mention in this connexion are the proprietors of the Cunard
steamers between New York and Liverpool, and New York and Havana; the
North German Lloyd, between New York and Bremen; the Hamburg American
Packet Company, between New York and Hamburg; the Panama Railroad
Company ; the Pacific Mail Steamship Company ; the Hudson’s Bay Company ;
the Adams Express Company, &c.
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45

The Institution is under especial obligations, for important services rendered
in this connexion, to the Hon. Hiram Barney, collector of the port of New York,
and to his assistant, Mr. George Hillier; to Mr. A. B. Forbes and Mr. Hubbard,
of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, in San Francisco, as well as to the
regular agents of the Institution.

During the year, 1863, a new literary agency of the Institution was established
for Holland and Belgium. Mr. Frederick Miller, bookseller, of Amsterdam, was
placed in charge, and he has already rendered much service. The other foreign
agents of the Institution—Dr. Felix Fliigel, of Leipsic; Gustave Bossange &
Company, of Paris; and Mr. William’ Wesley, of London—continue to dis-
charge their duties with efficiency, and to the full satisfaction of the Insti-
tution.

The number of institutions and individuals, at home and abroad, making use
of the facilities of scientific exchanges offered by the Smithsonian Institution is
continually on the increase, and it is believed that any interruption or suspen-
sion of this part of the programme of operations would be considered as a serious
calamity.

In 1862 the Institution distributed four volumes of Miscellaneous Collections,
one volume of Annual Reports, and one thick quarto volume of Meteorological
Records and Reductions. In 1863, owing to various circumstances, the Annual
Report for 1861 was the only volume distributed, although many copies of
separate papers were sent abroad. For this reason the bulk of sending, in 1863,
was less than that of previous years, but it is expected that the difference will
be fully made-up in 1864.

The following tables exhibit the details of the operations in the line of ex-
change during 1863:

A.
Receipt of bovks, &c., by exchange in 1863.
Volumes :
ACTA cis8 i, deuhe 1a aye tra Se ooo 5's Ete Utena vhs)
AALS Nectar ear ME ayers efi dB os pnd tet 167
WOlIG Ts Rts, ies oe eein carne imcAtee eines asus See 24
910
Parts of volumes and pamphlets :
CUCTAVO .ci<.ger Core Eon ats Sy aoe 2.0 Ee 2,119
Ogiarto. . < - JEIa MA Ao ee laos pe eds ABE 779
Boligy.. a2 waahage ipaoreiteases uaa oe. Seniss:es - ca igs 581
3,479
memati Charts.) 2 famas Poe aG SS ole Uy Sere Be eee f 200
Total’ cB Bee cee ta 4 Pbih deta k wes CEs e 4, 589
emeereenaTE LOG)... CoSe ee AL ee SUR Se ee ee 2, 886

Ree MiG HE POG 2”... icine ere PRN oe EE ae 5, 035
~ i

46 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Table showing

the statistics of the exchanges of the Smithsonian Institution

an 1863.
' a q
— c ey aS a
ates oH ° Cov om
oS oR Ba 8.2 me
Agent and country. en 2K eee aS
‘oe Qa ore i o'5 * ol oy
ag? EI 5 4 2 gy
=} =] =} Ger
A A fa =
fs IE 0 SSE RES a ne!
Dr. FELIX FLUGEL, Letpsic—
Scandinavians o-e6 2-5 nie 2-25 = 1 VEL. ras ase eee peo eet
Round gure essen aecoiencticae ee 13 She leads See We Se eee aes
Norway --------- ------ ---------- 4 EE cite mm re
IDEN SAS eaeenoeseaneyeeroerss 13 5) Bt eee eee ae 5
LBD) Ss oe560 SeeeqpecSapeiccosro as 42 (Gi lec a'es2%2| Joa aces aeaet wes
Germany .----------- ------------ 265 A500 | S22 en ease eee aeons
Shlizcnl Oh as SAS Se SSB Bee cepgce 30 HS iat ewe - dios oerces all Me maretees
Belgium ....--------------------- 10 OA 2 oe cee amercve ween eiae
ay Cite nei al 378 690 | _ 26 202 | 3,500
FREDERICK MULLER, Amsterdam—
DVO hegridl espera = i= = totatn oleate hoe ola 40 BU ee cia wackre soe crete
US 1 (MR ote ah Nl F< 40 81 | 4 31} 1,006
GuSTAVE BossaNGE & Co., Paris—
IBTANCA ge eee salon © oetebe teele ssa 107 TSO. Pete oeccleceocees lowes
lhl? 25505 BSOSeGOneOanReTeenn5o= 58 O5wSaseerecleeceeenfeaceseecs
Sho ee epee cso ae vi 1Gt) Seceseciltinee testes ee eos
letiniill apes See aess gees eces a8 4 6 ces 2 alee Se memieeeeee ee
MGbaliee es ue a selnswin sororities 176 299 13 88 2, 800
W. WESLEY, London—
Great Britain and Treland.-........- 169 316 14 106 2, 580
RReetIOn DN WOll de ene cer oc see cima een = 20 40 4 20 400
Grand totalesa ce ccccee ee ccs 783 | 1,426|: 61 447 | 10,286

Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties im
America for foreign distribution in 1863.

Albany, N. Y.— Number of packages.
prot, James. Elall 2s. oui. Sees Se 2 CO eee 9
Boston, Mass.—
American Academy of Arts and.Seiences.: 122040 eee See 116
Boston Society of Natural History .,«:\.')- sciee weeks eee 205
Oe PLO PUG a ao bm nos 6 ieee osm 2 a allan) & eee eae Be 1
Cambridge, Mass.—
Harvard alle ee oe a kk ae cle ote cine 5 ot 3. eo eee ee ee 31
Museum of Comp: wative Zoolopy -.- pi -i.0:-,-c een eee 342
Alex AMRORT A CRBEIE 3c 25-0 sivio:n ima w ihe n)s coos, oo oer 3
PLOT Pas gies laren als fe dnp woh vane oe ere Sarai 20
SV ULGS PNLAMCOM erate a litaiciwis we, Sie a lare/e le a lale.c Jo oie nen eee eee eras i &°
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. AT

Cleveland, Ohio— /

LOE SS Ee PORE a, eee ar emery 60
Columbus, Ohio—

Diieastate. board of Apriculgareg, = .\2\..'5 2.222. eee one 102
Detroit, Mich.—

ica Cu un L Grannn Pip eA ss cscs case boa cs clea hole 56
Janesville, Wis.— .

institution for theslineece ee errs coe coc ce ec ae ee aces 73
Montreal, Can.—

Oley ed rcih MVE AL) aN SOT eee ey ahs Re eile eat sper ei ed hag sie a
New Haven, Conn.—

Acmericim,hourngal of Seienee.. ssh sees to tors eee eee 18

Pumereany Oriental Society...) 2! 52 foie on eee nin sisi ees 8

TE eave: rds ol Dee DE 1s ie eet SN EG BE a aa Ae aoe rR ere 15
ie Mork. .N..¥.— |

Mercuniite: Library... bs 25) Fie ees lee Ata ees 10

New, vork lyceum, ot-NaturalsHishory.\- 2.7.0.0. sj. we seco nace 101
Philadelphia, Pa.—

pieadomiy Ol Natital SCONCES... jes edninieimiescie= ayhisig minima mE 165

Entomological Society of Philadelphia. ..522.050002.00.% 9

PiriMnaccudscau Aes OCiation ..2/. o6 4 ae al 2's ee ees Soe eee 100

Bre Orse VN MR YOM c.0) 5 2 sale a) ciain le a! ahalone baie) o/ain cisinie mikcaat= em the 57
Santa Barbara, Cal.—

Gro ad ob dle ge ee ee a es eee re yh home a 60
St. Louis, Mo.—

Bi LOUIS CAM CMO SCIRMCEH ere ste 6 2) aa:4 015) o'n,ae'o waa sino a mere 172
Salem, Mass.—

ECOL: ce) i EMMA B RE Matcha Acdsee Rite wie oh aie ini Gia n/ave, edna, 0 6 acketentieneye ae 1
Toronto, Can. —

Mangdian Gustine: Ses ee ee a ee eo 6
Utica, N. Y.—

piace taumatic Asmat ei.) < «xine dae ems es rete a 4.
Washington, D. C—

Mimied: States Coast survey o- > - <5) tine ange cele cs = 672

United States National Observatory. 2../.¢. 0.252.222 22S 149

Minted: States. Patenta@iiee 7.) 5 02h Bee ee es oo 465

puperintendent- of -Goasasi-3.: ocean eye ss 200

co 9 LESTE VEE UA S08 VERE. MS AVES a 2. La ea a Re Ot 15
Wi indsor, Nova Scotia—

ent A a & Dep, mene Oe SE MCT ERY "gach a) [EP a at OP One Rte 18

3, 316

48

D.

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, for
distribution in America, in 1863.

ALBANY, NEW YORK.

Albany WnsititOsssnn-- scecss sce
J Allo halve LO ly iy eae eee
Dudley Observatory
New York State Agricultural Society - -
New York State Library
New York State Medical Society - ----
New York State University...-......
Dr. E. Emmons. --
Professor James Hall...............-

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS.

Amberst'Collere= 5.22 ses. oss 220
Drepprebten cock c-sce) cece ce csosae
@harles Heebitehcock= =. 2225.2 225

Professor Charles Upham Shepherd. -.
ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.

State Wbrary: <-s<ic—-2 sce cece e ccens
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.

Observatory. s-2--52--5- .-sec-ecceee
De BINNMNOW Hise hice -iscmacisele ease ee

AUGUSTA, MAINE.

State Library

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND.

Maryland Historical Society .........
Peabody: Institute... 5-2 e022. Ja.
DIityds GIAYGs socess neice taneee
WrwouniG: Moms: sascereses cece.
12d Largs) O00 Ce a een Ae Pear

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Academy of Arts and Sci-
‘ei CAPA SY Be eee
Boston Society of Natural History . ..
Bowditch Library
Geological Survey of Massachu-
RLU) oom Sess ekccise Sooo n ster soos
Massachusetts Historical Society. ....
New England Historico-Genealogical
Societ

Prison Discipline Soviety...-....---.-
Public saibrary:s top pace ++ ccc creece
State Library ...-....-... PE Rare
re &. Ts. Abbatiese cece tcc s onc x ciee
Bia WV 5 ELBISIN cece Seimctw a cimte A's

No. of
packages.

WOK we

wee Hw

— ot

See eee tO

BOSTON, MASS.—Continued.

Professor C. J. Jackson-..--....--<-
Professor Rogers. .< -nputee a} seeeeee
S. EL. (Scudder: 22.227 Sees eeeeee
Charles, Sprague: .t 237.235 7aeeeee ace
George Ticknor

BRATTLEBORO’, VERMONT.
Asylamifor Insane: &.2 220s ifee4 ects
BRUNSWICK, MAINE.
Historical Society of Maine..-......-
BURLINGTON, IOWA.

Iowa Historical and Genealogical In-
stitute. --.-. Scie oscascgcescan:

BURLINGTON, VERMONT.
University of Vermont.....-------.-
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
American Association for Advance-

Harvard. Colleges): = ¥- sea saec one
Observatory of Harvard College...-..-
Professor ii. Agassizie--syse ee eee
G. PeBond. 5-2. c- oe —pose see eee

Professor’). P:Cooke22 =e aeeeee. eee
Dr John Dean. sce eer eee ee

Dr. BY A. 'Gouldeesseereonecescocee
Professor Asa Gray
Professor H. W. Longfellow. -...--.--
Professor J. LOVenne! caae<. o=2- sone
Professor Jules Marcou .--..........<
‘Professor B. Peireoeeeeeeeeeeeee eee
IP. SW; tPiitname se cet sate eee
Dr. L. Eh. Sattordeeeeta.. 20 seen ee
Professor G. A. Schmit...........-.
My.,. Tuttle. << See one eee oe

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS,

Academy of Sciences .--.. .---- eee
Mechanics? Institutesccececs se. cee

CINCINNATI, OHIO,

Astronomical Observatory
Dental Register of the West. ....--.-
Historical and Philosophical Society

of Ohio... sheet eeestene cp eaaeneee
Mercantile library, -ses-+e--s-s-
John G. Anthony is once pe ete

No. of
packages.

eet md feed pet et

te DW DWH OOS See

mt OD

et m2
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

49

D.—Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §¢.—Continued.

CLINTON, NEW YORK.

Observatory of Hamilton College. --.-

Dr. C. H. F. Peters

COLUMBIA, MISSOURI.

Geological Survey of Missouri.-..----

COLUMBIA, PENNSYLVANIA.
Professor S. S. Haldeman

COLUMBUS, OHIO,

Ohio State Board of Agriculture...--.

State Library

CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Historical Society...

State Library
DES MOINES, IOWA.
State Library

DETROIT, MICHIGAN,

Michigan State Agricultural Society - -
Lieutenant Colonel J. D. Graham... .

Dr. Tappan

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

Dr. Edward Jarvis

EAST GREENWICH, NEW YORK,

Asa Fitch
EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA.
~ Prof. J. H. Coffin

FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY,

Geological Survey of Kentucky.--.-.

State Library
GAMBIER, OHIO.

Kenyon College
GEORGETOWN, D. C.
Georgetown College

Dr. H. Kin
| RCC a ee

MBOMICSGUCKOUX: jai 5.0%. seew ese seis

wee eee ee ee eee cee eee tee eee

No. of
packages. |

|
.

woe

|
i

e

HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.

State Library
State Lunatic Asylum

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT,

Historical Society of Connecticut
State Library

HAVANA, CUBA.

Royal Economical Society....-.-

HUDSON, OHIO.

Western Reserve College...---..----

Professor Charles A. Young
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.

Indiana Historical Society. .---.-
State Library

IOWA CITY, IOWA.

State Wmiversitiy sss. - esses ser

JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS.

institution tor the bund]. -2se sees

JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN.

State Institution for the Blind-.-..--.

JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI.

Historical Society of Missouri--.---.---

State Library

LANCASTER, OHIO.

Dr dei Bi celo wes Sea seslene esate

LANSING, MICHIGAN.

State Agricultural College....--.-.-.-

State Library
LEON, NEW YORK.

T. Apoleon Cheney... -=--- =<: -

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS.
State Library
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.
Colonel Long

Professor J. Lawrence Smith-...-

Dr, L. P. Yandell

No. of
packages.

Lo)

be ee

>

ss)
50 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

D.— Addressed packagesreceived by the Smithsonian Institution, §c.—Continued.

.

MADISON, WISCONSIN.

Historical Society of Wisconsin. -----
Skandinaviske Presse-Forening - - - -- -
State Agricultural Society. -.---.-----
State dabranyeases-2-~--- -4- eaeese

MONTPELIER, VERMONT.

Historical and Antiquarian Society of

MennODb sa <-—- 4.2 eee: avec re les
SiO) | Ne aoe eee
Mibertiacer: ..- . -\26546 f-keldenese

MONTREAL, CANADA EAST.

Natural History Society....----.----
Professor Billings.......-.---.------
‘Phomas hf. Blackwell. =... ---22-2.--
Professor J. W. Dawson....---------
DITA OP AN. colon = so ncsenaoe
igrotesporyl NS. unt eee -ete acne ee =
M. Toly de Lotbiniere .-.--- --...-<-

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY.

Geological Survey of New Jersey..-.
Professor George H. Cook...-..-----

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.

American Journal of Science and Arts.

American Oriental Society. -.-..-.----
MaleiCollero: ss 2oeccenc's Seon eae
Professor Ji; DD. (Manas: 4- 2545-2524
Professor bl. Woomisee oo. 4-2 eee

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.

New Orleans Academy of Natural Sci-

NEW YORK, N. Y.

American Acriculturist..............
American Ethnological Society...-...
American Geographical and Statistical

PUCLOUV Eee ee coe in eee ole

AStOTeMIpIalyes ee nee ee ek eee
Farmer and Mechanic. .........-----
istompalepocienye =>. .oe-e-\2.
Journal of Pharmacy -.--........- ae
Bodical Colpo reas ek a vsyas seeue
New York City Lunatic Asylum. ....
New York Dental Journal.-.......-.
New York Lyceum of Natural History.

No. of
packages. |

—
Se ~

— OQ

woe

wo

CO WR OTE

ol

No. of
packages. |

NEW YORK, N. Y.—Continued.

University. seactst. abutters
Wi. Coopers =o... <ataoeens ae oe ee
Dr. Dimper- as. ieee see eee
Dr. Daniel Maton=ses-25--eaeese ese
DE EIR SEOR ra no 5 ere a ee eee
1D) Ge Buliot -. cael. toe eee

Dr... Harper 2254-68. a enn eee
CoRGUUNG ~ — 806.2 ones ee
G. Ni vluewrenee:. .< ja-26e ease aes

Temple Primeracies sass <i eee
Johnvbl Redtielitee re. cease see
James Renwick «pce anne Rees ee
Dry Johmyloreyers seas eaeee oer
Mr. Wiheatlowen ce gees deca ctaebee

Prt pet Bt fet CD SE CD et OD OD bet fet et et 0 CO tt

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON TERRITORY,
ermtonal Wibranyina seem ee eeteee 2
OMAHA, NEBRASKA,
State Wibranyij:i<.--,.5.4-cneaeseaee 5
OWEGO, NEW YORK.
Mr. Pumpelly 2 2. «2<s_sstieee= oe 5
PEORIA, ILLINOIS,

Dr, Brendel. ene ee eee eee 1
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.

Academy of Natural Sciences....-... 114
American Philosophical Society... --- _ By
Central, High School... <..--.- .<-2-2
Dental} Cosmos seeaemer selene =a =oe
Entomological Society .-....-.-.----
Lore haltd bra Bainter eee ce ee
Historical Society of Pennsylvania. --
Institution for the Blind....-........
Wagner Free Institute.............-
Dr. Alien Jo eemsas s0aces espe ene
A.D... Browmisaacecisesceme- < aceeer

_

ee ROO RE
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

51

D.— Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &¢.—Continued.

PHILADELPHIA, PA.—Continued.

Birr osepheeidy 225 -5- tse seule -
pte Ncmbomee +22. 4 oe ee Da

IRCOLPR Wee nyON) 2s a c.45-sscsaas
LEMOS See WET hee
Horatio: CgWwieod see 2-24 2.4 see xisss

PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY.

Pralempr A. Giyob\..5-.--.-.--\---<
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND.

Rhode Island Histoxical Society... ---
State Librar

QUEBEC, CANADA EAST,

Astronomical Observatory....-.....-
WavalyWiniversity. .. 2c Se ees hk
Literary and Historical Society

QUINCY, ILLINOIS.

Mer onntutter. 52.02 See h55554 22!

Lik \/ Glide 33 oe eee ee seen See

RYE, NEW YORK.

EIIUNS ADE ono ac fa na 2c oon ene Sasa
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA.
2b rr ei
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI.

Deutsche Institute fur Férderung der

Wissenschaften 5.00... .s2see
St. Louis Academy of Sciences. .-----
St. Louis University..-...-...------
Dr. George Bernays
Dr. George Engelmann ........-..--
Gree AdamyrHammer: -....-02.-252eate
een Es SHUMAT A. (== ni<in) <n nonin
(LEE eR a es

No. of
packages.

—
Need fa feed feed fe fet et OD GD DO DW DO

WO & 0

Wee

ioe)

SOT et et

_—

No. of
packages.

ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.

Historical Society of St. Paul...--.--- 2
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.
MSPS ci) 3) 1 151 2 A ee 2
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
California Academy of Natural Sci-
CNCEG a cela = ane Gcie ne oe ee ee ee 25
Professor. W..P. Blakesoi.uit. 2. 22-4 4
SANTIAGO, CHILI.
WHIVGrSibys coo sense csorct ace ee 3
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS.
State Agricultural Society -..----.... 1
Statedibrary .—- ssc cuosenieceee ares 4
STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA,
State Lunatic Asylum .--........... 1
TORONTO, CANADA WEST.
Bureau of Agriculture and Statistics -. 1
Canadian institutes 2) 2222222222 2. 7
Magnetical and Meteorological Obser-
WENO? ce Bs ge Poe cate: Bbeneeceéice 1
MWniversity Collere=. ow .o 6 ae sec 1
TOPEKA, KANSAS.
StatesDabtary 2525 .< ates. sss cet: 6
TRENTON, NEW JERSEY.
State, Library) o.)- -i<2b ssa) as age 4
UTICA, NEW YORK,
State Lunatic Asylum -.-.-......... 1
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography 1
Librany, of Coneressi=2 25255220. 225 4
National Observatory .------.-..-.-- 83
Nayy Departments 22222252 5.22... - 3
OxdrancerBuresu © see = acs Soo 2
Revenue Department .-.-.....------ il
Secretary of State -----). 22.2... 032 1.
Surgeon General United States Army - 3
Topographical Bureau -..------.---- 1
United States Coast Survey ..--....- 23

United States Patent Office........-.-
52 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

D.— Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, §c.—Continued.

|

| n
36 36
3 3
os | os
Ag Ags
| roy
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued. WASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued.
Wear Departmentic.--2-.1- <2 -=--- G |i T.. Pesche toe eee eee tee 1
Colonels G.eAbettesee oss he. == 4 || Captain John Rodgers ....--..------ 1
Professors. WA Bache).2----!2- 25 J. 20 |) 8.) Wi Simm). step Sees teeeer oe 1
Dimelde Chto oe ae ae ee eae 1, || HR. Schooleratt~<2=--) eee eee ae J
MeO Melee eam ince ee 10} Dx. We Stimpsoni=y <i etee eee 5
Captains. M. Gillies .-..2-. 22.2222) (24 We AC Treadway 2. eee ee 1
GeneraliPimoryesesens soonest ee eek 2 || Ul esate aroe toto tenn eee 1
Wins (HOGS abe cadaane sone enssaquc L Barons VionsiGerolt) 25555 se eee eee 1
Dr PSV eaves: 2s clog oes bas 1 || Captain Charles Wilkes. .........-.- 2
Professor Hubbard. ..---. =.-------- 1 Uo mal. Ghani e See ee eek oosicee 6 case 1
General A. A. Humphreys-.-.-....-- 1
Colonels wi ehion ow ses- 5. -— == - 1 WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
DP Smith McCauleyiseso22 2 Lek. -.- 1
Professor G. A. Matile --..-..-..----- | 1 | American Antiquarian Society .....--
eRGtaliOnad OTGSSCS meses oe ate ale ee eee eee eee erate 273
(NOUN Ot EMS Sh oo86 shoben Goac 50 aoe5cd sae Soc bosses toc cs0sesscees Sa06 1, 522

MUSEUM AND COLLECTIONS.

It is gratifying to be able to state that the interest in the subject of natural
history, which received so material a check in 1861, and showed symptoms of
revival in 1862, has continued to manifest itself still more strongly during the
year 1863. No better indication of this could be found than in the increase in
the number of collections received by the Institution, which amounted to 264
distinct donations in 1863, while, in 1862, there were but 124.

Among the collections received have heen many specimens of great interest ;
some, the results of special explorations under the auspices of the Institution for
developing the natural history of portions of this continent; others, the sponta-
neous offerings of correspondents; and others, again, exchanges received in return
for donations of specimens on the part of the Institution. No additions have
been made by purchase, the Institution not having funds at its command for
this purpose. It has, nevertheless, been found that’ a given amount of money
can be better applied in meeting the expenses of explorations in particular
regions than in buying collections already made. he results thus obtained
are usually more varied in their character, and more important, from having
been accomplished under definite instructions, and with special reference to the
acquisition of facts and information additional to that which would be furnished
by the specimens themselves. It is not merely specimens of natural history
that are secured in the course of the several explorations, but information is
obtained respecting the habits of animals, the ethnological peculiarities of human
races, the meteorology, the physical geography, the geology of the country, &c.

EXPLORA'TIONS.

Among the explorations wholly or partially carried on under the auspices of
the Smithsonian Institution, and furnishing results of more or less interest, may
be mentioned the following :

Explorations by Mr. Kennicott—A brief mention was made in the last
report of the return of Mr. Kennicott, late in 1862, after an absence of nearly
four years in the north, his movements while there having previously been indi-
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53

cated in the reports of 1859, 1860, and 1861. By the arrival of all his collec-
tions, and those of gentlemen connected with the Hudson’s Bay Company, who
have so liberally aided him and the Institution in the effort to develop a
knowledge of the natural and physical history of the north, we are now enabled
better to realize the magnitude of the results of these operations. The collee-
tions received in 1863 (which include some which should have arrived in the
end of 1862) filled forty boxes and packages, many of them of large size, and
weighing, in the aggregate, about 3,000 pounds. ‘They embraced thousands of
kins of birds and nae ale eggs of nearly all the birds nesting in the north,
numerous skulls and skeletons A: animals, fishes in alcohol and preserved dry,
insects, fossils, plants, Xe.

Not in any way inferior in interest and importance to the natural history
collections were those relating to the ethnological peculiarities of the Esquimaux
and different tribes of Indians inhabiting the Arctic regions. It is believed that
no such series is elsewhere to be found of the dresses, weapons, implements,
utensils, instruments of war and of the chase, &c., &c., of the aborigines of
Northern America.

The cataloguing and labelling of the specimens last received is now nearly
completed, and Mr. Kennicott will then proceed to make a detailed report of the
scientific results of his operations, as well as those of the various gentlemen of
the Hudson’s Bay service who co-operated in the work. The materials at his
command will serve to fix with precision the relationships of the arctic animals
to those of more southern regions, their geographical distribution, their habits
and manners, and other particul: us of interest, and to extend very largely the
admirable records presented by Sir John Richardson relative to arctic zoology.

The Institution has already acknowledged, in many ways, its indebtedness
to the Hudson’s Bay Company, as well as to its officers, for their numerous
favors—the company itself, through its secretary, Mr. Thos. Fraser, of London;
the governors, Sir, George Simpson and Mr. Dallas; Mr. E. M. Hopkins, the
secretary at Montreal ; the chief factors, Governor Wm. McTavish, Mr. George
Barnston, Mr. John McKenzie, Mr. J. A. Grahame, Mr. Wm. Sinclair ; the
chief traders, Mr. B. R. Ross, Mr. W. L. Hardisty, Mr. R. Campbell, Mr. Jas.
Lockhart, and others, together with Mr. R. W. MacFarlane, Mr. Le Clarke, Mr.
S. Jones, Mr. J. S. Cee the Rev. W. W. Kirkby, Messrs. Andrew and
James Flett, Mr. C. P. Gaudet, Mr. John Reid, Mr. Harriot, and others—all
have lent their aid towards the accomplishment of the work—every possible
facility was given to Mr. Kennicott, every privilege granted within the rules of
the company. At all the posts he was an honored guest, and he and his col-
lections and outfit were transported from point to point in the company’s boats
and sledges without charge.

In addition to collections from the region traversed by Mr. Kennicott in his
four years’ exploration, some valuable specimens have been received from other
points of British North America. Conspicuous among these is a series of birds
and eges am Rigolette, in Labrador, gathered by Mr. Henry Conolly, of the
Hudson’s Bay Company’ s service, and brought to Boston, without charge, by
Mr. J. W. Dodge. ‘This collection embraced specimens of the rare Labrador
falcon, and Oihers of much interest. A collection of birds and other objects
of natural history, made at Moose Factory, for the Institution, by Mr. John
McKenzie, has reached London by ship from Hudson’s Bay, and may shortly
be expected in Washington.

Exploration of Western Mexico by Mr. Xantus.—In my last report I men-
tioned that Mr. John Xantus, so long and so well known in connexion with
explorations about Fort Riley, Kansas, Fort Tejon, California, and Cape St.
Lucas, was about proceeding to a new field of operations. He left New York
on the 11th of December, 1862, for Manzanillo, Mexico, the Panama Railroad
54 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Company and the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, with that liberality they
have so steadily exhibited in their transactions with the Institution, having
given free passage over their respective routes to himself and his outfit. Mr.
Xantus arrived at Manzanillo early in January, 1863, and making this and
Colima his principal points of departure, extended his explorations in various
directions, especially among the mountain regions. He is still occupied in his
labors, the field being very extensive and of varied interest. Many of his col-
lections have already been received, and found to contain numerous species
of birds, reptiles, fishes, shells, &e., new to science, while others throw much
light on the eeographical distribution of the plants and animals of Mexico and
Central America.

Explorations in Costa Rica—For some time past much attention has been
directed by naturalists toward the natural history of Costa Rica, a region which,
from its peculiar physical conformation, indicated a fauna quite different from
that of the adjacent states. ‘The birds were particularly sought after owing to
the many remarkable forms, brought to light by travellers. It was, therefore,
with no little gratification that a collection of birds, made by Dr. A. Von Frant-
zius, an eminent naturalist and physician, resident in Costa Rica, aided by the
Hon. C. N. Riotte, United States minister, and Mr. J. Carniol, was received a
few mouths ago at the Institution. A careful examination of these specimens
proved that the peculiar interest of the fauna had not been overestimated, a
large proportion of the species being either new, or but recently described.
Additional collections, shortly expected from Dr. Von Frantzius, will, it is
hoped, increase still more our knowledge of the species.

Miscellancous explorations in Mexico.—F ox several years past a highly valued
meteorological correspondent of the Institution, Dr. Charles Sartorius, of Mira-
dor, has made contributions of specimens of the natural history of his vicinity.
During the year several collections were received from him of much interest and
importance, especially certain species of Mexican deer, recently described, and
but little known. As Dr. Sartorius, aided by his son, Mr. Florentin Sartorius,
is now engaged in preparing an account of the animals of eastern Mexico, with
special reference to their habits, &c., it is a source of gratification to us to have it
in our power to aid him by identifying the species from his specimens, which his
remoteness from large collections and libraries prevents him from doing for him-
self. Prof. F. Sumichrast, of Orizaba, has also made valuable contributions of
birds and mammals of Mexico, and proposes to renew these whenever the con-
dition of the internal affairs of Mexico will allow of the transmission of his
collections. Dr. G. Berendt, of ‘Tabasco, is also occupied in a similar manner
in the interest of science and of the Institution.

Explorations in Guatemala and the west coast of Central America.—Mr.
Osbert Salvin, an eminent English ornithologist, who has spent many years in
the exploration of Guatemala, has transmitted to the Institution a second col-
lection of the birds of that region. As these contain specimens of most of his
new species, and all have been carefully compared, as far as practicable, with
the types, his series of birds is of especial value, as furnishing standards for the
identification of other collections.

Additional collections of much interest continue to be sent to the Institution
by Captain J. M. Dow, of the Panama Railroad Company, so frequently men-
tioned in my previous reports. Certain rare birds and fishes collected by him
are especially noteworthy.

Trinidad.—A collection of nearly fifty species of birds of Trinidad was pre-
sented by Mr. Galody, United States consul at Antigua, embracing many species
not formerly in possession of the Institution.

Jamaica.—Myr. W.'T. March, from whom the Institution has already received
extensive collections in Jamaican zoology, has again made an important contri-
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. dD

bution of an extensive series of birds’ nests and eggs, the materials upon which
he based a memoir on the birds of Jamaica, transmitted to the Institution, to be
published by the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, and printed in its
proceedings for November, 1863.

Cuba.— Additional collections were received during the year from Mr. Charles
Wright and Professor I’. Poey, embracing new and rare species of birds, shells,
reptiles, and fishes. Some collections, transmitted by Dr. J. Gundlach, have
not yet reached us.

Ecuador —The Hon. C. R. Buckalew, now United States senator, while
United States minister, resident at Ecuador, made quite an extensive collection
of the birds of that country, which he has lately presented to the Institution.
Nearly all of the species thus obtained were new to the cabinet. fc:

No collections of magnitude, from regions or localities other than American,
have been received during the year. It is not the intention or expectation of
the Institution to make general collections of the natural history of the globe,
neither its space nor available funds warranting so broad a field of operations.
By limiting its labor to America, a hope may be entertained of possessing, in
time, a complete series of the animals of the continent.

Exotic collections, as far as they are spontaneously offered, and especially
such as are necessary to illustrate the characters of American species, are
always acceptable, and the specimens gathered by the government exploring
expeditions, of which the Smithsonian Institution is the custodian, will always
be carefully preserved; but any especial efforts towards the increase of the
museum may advantageously be confined, as a general policy, to the New
World.

The most important additions, it will be readily seen, relate to the class of
birds. Desirous of extending the observations upon the birds of North
America, as published in the ninth volume of the Pacific railroad report, a cir-
cular was issued by the Institution, which has been distributed by the State
Department to the consular and diplomatic officers of the United States in the
foreign portions of America, asking aid in completing the collection of birds ;
and important additions are expected from the request thus extended. The
materials received will be used, in connexion with those already in possession
of the Institution, in the preparation of catalogues and monographs relative to
American ornithology.

Among the specimens received by the Institution during the year should
especially be mentioned the great Ainsa or Tucson meteorite.

This meteorite was first discovered by the Jesuit missionaries in Sonora, by
whom it was considered a great curiosity, exciting much speculation as to its
origin. In 1735 the “Gran Capitan de las Provincias del Occidente, Don Juan
Baptista Anza, was induced to visit the erolite,’’ and found it at a place called
“ Los Muchaches,” in the Sierra Madre, and, struck with its appearance, under-
took to transport it to San Blas, then the nearest port of entry, with the view
of carrying it to Spain. With this object it was brought as far as the Presidio,
near ‘Tucson, in Arizona, and left there on account of “the ditheulty of carrying
it any further. After the withdrawal of the Spanish garrison it was taken into
the town of Tucson, set up vertically, and used as a kind of public anvil, of
which it bears marks at the present time. In this condition it was seen and
reported upon by various travellers; among others it was visited by John R.
Bartlett, July 18, 1852, at the time Commissioner of the United States and
Mexican Boundary Survey. Mr. Bartlett gives a short account of it, (Personal
Narrative, volume II, p. 297,) accompanied by a figure, (the lower one on the
plate,) where it is represented as resting upon two legs, owing to the lower
part of the ring, of which it consists, being buried in the ground. His estimate
of six hundred pounds as its weight falls far within the actual amount.
56 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In 1857, Dr. B. J. D. Irwin, United States army, then stationed at Fort
Buchanan, south of Tucson, found this meteorite lying in one of the by streets
of the village, half buried in the earth. As no one claimed it, he publicly
announced his intention to take possession of it and forward it to the Smith-
sonian Institution, whenever an opportunity offered. Some time after, assisted
by Mr. Palatine Robinson, of Tucson, (near to whose house the meteorite lay,)
he succeeded in having it sent, by the agency of Mr. Augustine Ainza, to
Hermosillo, where it remained for some time at the hacienda of Don Manuel
Ynigo, father-in-law of Mr. Ainza.

In May, 1863, Mr. Jesus Ainza, brother of Mr. Augustine Ainza, and grand-
son of Dota Ana Ainza de Iglas, the daughter of Don Juan Bautista Ainza,
visited Sonora, and on his return brought the meteorite with him to San Fran-
cisco, where it was delivered by his brother, M. Santiago Ainza, to the agent
of the Smithsonian Institution, Mr. A. B. Forbes, of the Pacific Mail Steamship
Company, and forwarded by him, vza the Isthmus, to Washington, where it
arrived in November, and is now on exhibition, and the great object of attraction
to visitors in the Smithsonian hall. If is proper to state that, although Dr.
Irwin was authorized to expend whatever was necessary to secure the trans-
mission of the meteorite to San Francisco, beyond some small expenses paid
by him for placing it upon the truck in Tucson, no charge was made by the
Ainza family for the cost of transportation to Guaymas and delivery to the
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, performed partly with their own wagons
and partly by other means of conveyance. It was brought free of charge from
Guaymas to San Francisco by the Flint and Haliday line of steamers. While
on the route to New York the Pacific Mail Steamship Company and the
Panama Railroad Company, with that liberality which has ever characterized
their intercourse with the Smithsonian Institution, transported it without
expense to Aspinwall, and thence to New York.

The meteorite is in the shape of an immense signet ring, much heavier on
one side, where it is nearly flat on its outer surface, and presents the face used
as an anvil. ‘The greatest exterior diameter is 49 inches; width of thickest
part of the ring 9 inches, the least 38 inches ; the greatest width of the central
opening, 23 inches; width of thickest part of the ring, 174 inches. The weight
is now 1,400 pounds, but some portions have been removed from time to time,
probably reducing it considerably. Its composition is principally of iron, with
small specks of a whitish silicious mineral diffused through it.

A careful chemical and physical examination of the meteorite will be made
by Professor G. J. Brush, of New Haven, to whom the Smithsonian Institution
has committed the subject for a detailed report.

As the erolite was first brought from the mountains north of Tucson by the
great grandfather of the gentleman to whose exertions in transporting it to
Washington the Institution owes so much, it is proposed to call it the “ Ainsa
meteorite.”’ To Dr. Irwin, of the United States medical department, the Insti-
tution is also under great obligations for his agency in securing this specimen.

Dr. Irwin states that the inhabitants of Tucson have a tradition that a shower
of these meteorites took place in the Santa Catarina mountains about two hun-
dred years ago, and that there are many other masses of a similar character
yet remaining in those mountains.

This meteorite is among the largest known, and in this country is only
exceeded a little in weight by the Gibbs meteorite in the cabinet of Yale Col-
lege, New Haven, while it surpasses the latter in size, being disposed in the
form of a ring instead of a solid mass.

The Smithsonian Institution also possesses the third largest meteorite in the
country in the “Couch meteorite,” weighing 252 pounds, and brought from
Northeastern Mexico by Major General D. N. Couch, and by him presented
to the Institution. ‘
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 57

IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIMENS.

Continued progress has been made during the year in the determination and
arrangement of the species in the Smithsonian collections, and the cabinet is
gradually becoming more and more useful for reference and study. Any appa-
rent shortcoming in this respect will be excused in view of the fact that the
work done is mainly a voluntary contribution on the part of gentlemen engaged
in making special examinations of the Smithsonian collections, and the Insti-
tution is under many obligations for their assistance.

DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS.

In accordance with the plan of the Institution, as fast as the identification
of the species is satisfactorily accomplished, the duplicate specimens are set
aside. for distribution to such museums at home and abroad as appear to be
suitable recipients. The total number of objects thus distributed to the end
of the year 1863, all properly determined and labelled, amounts to 26,651
species, and 50,601 specimens, as shown by the following schedule:

Statement of specimens of natural history distributed by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution up to December 31, 1863.

Prior to 1854. 1854 to July, | 1861 to August, Total. Special distribu-
1861. 1863. tion of shells of
Exp’g Exp’n.
Specimens. 5

na mn wa wa oa

: 8 ! By ; § 8 8

2 & 2 & & 5 2 | & 2 8

o ° i>} oO o [>] o [= (>) °

oO o oO oO a o oO o oO oO

a a a iy i a a a a o.

nD R nD 2) nD R DM RQ BS le
Mammals .... ..---- 5 5 404 624 172 | 216 581 Si Bly BeSaceecliatces ae
TEL ee eee 825] 1,035.| 3,162) 4,255 | 1,787.) 2,494) 5,774) 7,784 |--....-.|-..--0.-
MEGPLNGH see ee oc === ~ 18 22 | 1,470 | 2,356 18 | TS | MIeDOOs fee sco0) [oe ae a adle anes
MANNER eee ee - 2-22) \Sanonciels dcteeoee 1, 623 |< 3,921 20 28))| PAG431 | a3; 940 ee ees ease
MIFUAUACCAYS oo aonb sae a oaiarsea mieeratarn O360) Sl) B94. ores | Rorsteecr S O360 AaB OS eee eee eee
PROMALOR tea s.ch ic eltessseee lee ones 551 LEAL dee Se et aes ae 551 (C-7id ReAgoe A eoeac 2s
Molnsks ero l.-:- =|. .ctisenlta eaaiec 588 |} 1,985 310 380 898 | 2,365 | 10,934 | 44,112

Invertebrates, _in- |

RecN O05 SE Sepees| posce sae pasleaee: 216 330 312 400 528 | (0 erie pictcne Ose
Eggs of birds ---.--- 114 | 307 | 1,587 | 3,558 GISn eos TIO O79. SOO E Ee eeeeneeeee
OER INVERLEDIALeS-|-----—--|> 5-0 mee] e ae ee | nel 747 | 2,238 UE PAP 3S) ees secnsc ae
HIG MEMECONUCDLALON = =| Sroia0 52125 | ta cce aes es aeeoen beeeeeelpeeee dee ee ee | ee es a ee 5 1s SR rete
Sisniip so ee a aaa 58 Ch Beeagend eoncs ae at 5 63 CRIN ERE ae Aes emcecnory
Minerals and rocks.-|.---..-.. Besescca| |cace cel peenaat 211 354 211 | Se js cond bedeoese
Va CUS eS 1,020 | 1,527 | 10,487 | 19,650 | 4,210 | 7,368 | 26,651 | 72,657 | 10,934 | 44,112

In the index to the three volumes of transmissions of specimens for examina-
tion, or donation, the names of two hundred and fifty-nine institutions and indi-
viduals are entered up to August, 1863.

N. B.—The preceding enumeration of specimens distributed does not include
the specimens (duplicates) retained by collaborators in behalf of certain author-
ized collections—as of insects, by Messrs. Leconte, Uhler, Morris, Ostensacken,
Saussure, Edwards, Hagen, Loew, Scudder, &c.; of vertebrate fossils, by Leidy,
for the Philadelphia Academy; of fishes, by Professor Agassiz; shells, by
Messrs. Carpenter, Binney, Tryon, &c.; mammals, by Messrs. Leconte, Allen.
&c.; birds, by Mr. Cassin; reptiles, by Mr. Cope; plants, by Messrs. Torrey,
Gray, Engelman, and Eaton. ‘These will probably amount to at least 10,000
species, and 20,000 specimens additional.

The cataloguing of specimens in the record-books of the Institution has been
continued during the year, and, as will be seen by the accompanying table, now
amounts to 86,547 entries, being an increase, since 1863, of over 12,000.
58 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Table showing the total number of entries on the record-books of the Smithsonian
collection at. the end of the years 1861, 1862, and 1863.

1861 1862. 1863

Skeletons and skullssecei.c-sseco cose cede sche es oeieeeenisets 4,459 | 4,750 6, 275
Mammals = so-ae eee oo} moo. oer awicewa ee tsa Peeere 5,500 | 5,900 7,175
Bla.) nucck ae ad Bon on eee toe eee 23,510 | 26,157 | 31,800
PROpUOS 6 25 none Som se em pwn nine mnie erin ene 6,088 | 6,311 6, 325
Bighes See eoeee ee tee occ cet en 2 clear nelle wile nielniataininiae 3,643 | 4,925 5, 075
Eggs of birds..-.-.. -..-.---2-- 20. --s0-- e222 ba eeae aan nse 4,830 | 6,000 i, 20D,
Gristicbans eae e~ fence 2 ect oes oe miceente eeintl > Sapte eens (ieee hem leery 1, 287
Mollngls ese eon eet cis wi biscl. 2662 o- Seee aseee= === — = 9,718 | 10,000 |! 10,450
Radner cess. ict bsawats- bere aguell-4-edsesesa Gee at 1,800 | 2,675 | 2,725
TOSS Bets teen ie mene on alate Rae ec ate oc cire oe ee etal ate = et 1,031 | 2,100 2,550
Wihniia he ses Aaa eee see ee aCe 35 SOO Snae ec Omen Sdatpescnereot 3,500 | 3,725 4, 925
Ethnological specimens ---------------------------+---+---- 550 825 875
Aymelids: 2.2 skie tine ce scek bate eon sinntsalla te anlar ee = 105 109 110

Ji ee aes ee a SP ORAS Ser erisS 56e GUeanS Sor esse 66, 075 | 74,764 | 86,847

LIST OF DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
IN 1863.

Atkins, L. S—Eggs of birds and shells from Ohio.

Ainsa, J.—See ian

Akhurst, J—Birds from St. rit Reriaal West Indies.

Baer, O. P.—Unionide from Indiana.

Baird, S. F.—Iron ore from Hanover station ; series of skins and eggs of birds,
mammals, fishes, and invertebrates, from Wood’s Hole and Cohasset, Massa-
chusetts.

Baird, Mrs. S. F— Leuciscus, from Potomac river.

Beadle, Rev. E. R—Bergen Hill minerals.

Bean, W.—Collection of annelids and cirripeds of Great Britain.

Behrens, Dr.—Insects from California.

Berlin Museum.—54 skins of birds of Central and South America.

Bethune, Rev. C. S—Skin of Scalops brewert, Canada.

Blackman, Mr.—Skins and eggs of birds, [linois.

Blake, W. P.—Keg of fishes from Hakodadi, Japan.

Bland, Thomas.—Spirazis, from West Indies.

mo” George A——Embryo Canada grouse in alcohol; skins and eggs of
birds

Bouve, Thomas T.—Large erystale of beryl.

Brass, W.—Birds, inataennile} &e., Fort Halkett.

Brevoort, J. U—Fresh specimen of Zoarces anguillaris.

Bruckart, H. G.—Insects from Lancaster county, Pennsylvania.

Buchalew, Hon. C. R.—Collection of birds of Ecuador.

Burling, W—Skin of Halietus pelagicus from the Amoor river. (Through
Samuel Hubbard.)

Carniol, J—Skins of Costa Rican birds.

Carpenter, P. P.—Yossils from vicinity of Moscow.

Carpenter, Robbie S.—Skin of starling, Sturnus vulgaris, Warrington, England.

Clark, Lawrence—A general zoological collection ‘from Fort Rae, Great ‘Slave
lake.

Coleman, Lyman.—Seeds of Damascus thorn; petrified wood from Cairo.

Coleman, W. T.—Birds and eggs from Canada.

Comstock, A.—Cuttings of California grapes.
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59

Conolly, H—Skins and eggs of birds from Labrador.

Cooper, Dr. J. G.—Shells of California.

Coues, Dr. H.—Series of skins of birds of District of Columbia.

Cowles, P. W—lInsects trom Vicksburg.

Crosier, Dr. E. S—Vorticella, &e., New Albany, Indiana.

De Saussure, Dr. H—Skins of Mexican birds, and lacustrian antiquities of
Switzerland.

Diebitsch, Professor [—Rana pipiens. — .

Dodd, P. W.—Skulls of animals and eges of birds from Sable island.

Dow, Captain J. M—Skins of mammals, and birds, fishes, &c., from west
coast of Central America.

Drew, Dr. F. P.—Collection of reptiles and eggs of birds from Kansas.

Drewsen, Charles—Series of Greenland shells.

Drexler, C.—sSeries of skins of birds of the District of Columbia.

Egleston, Thomas.—Series of Eurepean fossils.

Elliot, D. G.—Skins of European gulls; skins of humming birds.

Elliot, H. W.—tUarge collection of “Uionides: shells, &e., in aleohol, Ohio.

Engelmann, Dr —l ossils from Llinois.

Fairbanks, Professor —Box of eggs. .

Fay, Joseph S—Chlorastrolite from Lake Superior.

Flett, Andrew.—Skins and eggs of birds; Fort Normann.

Flett, James —Kges of birds, ‘ke. from in Pierre’s house.

Foreman, Dr. —Vive boxes of minerals from Maryland.

Freiburg, Mining Academy of—Box of mineralogical and geological speci-
mens Gin Germany.

Frick, Dr—Shells of California and Japan,

Galody, M.—Skins of birds of Trinidad.

Gaudet, C. P—Skins and eggs ot birds, &c., from Peel’s river.

Gibbs, George.—Indian curiosities.

Gilliss, U. S. N., Captain.—Six boxes of microscopic soundings.

Gilpin, Dr. J. B—Series of shrews and mice of Nova Scotia.

Goldsmoth, Dr. M.—Cricket from the Mammoth Cave, Kentucky.

Gould, Dr. A. A—F¥orty species of Melaniade. -

Grahame, J. A—Skins of mammals, &c., Norway House.

Giebel, Dr. C—Three boxes of insects of Europe, (365 species.)

Gruber, Ferd—Skins and eggs of birds from California.

Gundlach, Dr. J—Specimenus of Gundlachia, Cuba.

Gunn, Donald.—Skins and eggs of birds from Red River settlement and Lake
Winipeg.

Haideman, Professor S. S—Types of the species of Melaniade described by
him.

Hall, W. F.—DBirds and eggs from Massachusetts.

Hamilton, R—Collection of skins and eggs of birds from Great Whale river,
(through Mr. George Barnston.)

Hardisty, W. L.—Birds, mammals, &c., from Fort Liard.

Harris, W. O.—Minerals from Chester county.

Harriot, Mr—Skins of birds from Fort Anderson.

Hays, Dr. W. W.—Fishes, &c., from Sacramento river.

Hayden, Dr. F. V.—Al\coholie specimens, Beaufort, South Carolina.

Haymond, Dr. R.—Cypris from Indiana.

Hephurn, James.—Skins and eggs of birds from the Pacifie coast.

Hibbard, Francis —Lead ore from New Brunswick.

Hibbard, James—Antimony ores, New Brunswick.

Hitz, R. B. § George.—1,200 eggs, of twelve species of birds, from Northamp-
ton county, Virginia, with shells, &e. (See also Stimpson.) Fossils from
Aquia creek.
60 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Hoge, Mr.—Skin of boa from the Serapiqui river.

Hope, John.—Eggs of birds, fishes, &c., Great Bear lake.

Hotaling, C. F.—Rock salt from Louisiana.

Hoxie, W—Insects from Massachusetts.

Hoy, Dr. P. R.—Nests and eggs from Racine.

Hunt, General L. C—Indian knife, Klamath lake.

Irwin, Dr. W. W., and J. Ainsa—Meteorite from Tucson, weighing 1,400 pounds.

Jeffreys, Mr.—Box of minerals of Chester county, Pennsylvania.

Jones, Strachan.—Kggs of birds, &c., from the Yukon.

Julian, A. A.—Series of fishes, &c., Sombrero island.

Keep, Rev. Marcus R.—Moose horns from Maine.

Kennedy, Dr. H. W.—Collection of reptiles of Uruguay.

Kennicott, R—Insects, eggs, &c., from Illinois.

Kennicott, R., and others —Fitteen boxes, three bales, one keg, and one chest
of Arctie collections. Mr. Kennicott’s collections principally from the mouth
of the Porcupine river, Peel’s river, Fort Good Hope, La Pierre’s house, Fort
Resolution, &e.

Kirtland, Dr. J. P—Two boxes of western Unionidae.

Krefft, Dr. G., (through W. Cooper.)—Collection of Australian reptiles.

Krider, John —Mounted hawks.

Lapham, I. A.—Unionide of Wisconsin.

Lawrence, George N—Skins of birds from Central America and Panama.

Lea, Isaac—Box ot Unionidae, and one hundred species of Melaniade.

Lewis, James, Dr—tUarge collection of land and fluviatile shells from the in-
terior of New York.

Lockhart, James.—Large series of zoological specimens, principally birds’ eggs,
from the Yukon; skins of birds, mammals, eggs, &c., from Fort Resolution.

Lykins, W. H. R.—Fossils from Kansas.

MacFarlane, R. W.—A general zoological and ethnological collection from
vicinity of the Anderson river, Arctic America.

McGuire, J. C—Two boxes of Unionide.

Mc Kenzie, Hector —Birds’ eggs from Red river.

McKenzie, J—Birds, &c., from Fort Resolution.

Mc Kenzie, Roderick.—Birds’ eggs from Lake Manitobah.

McMurray, W.—Birds’ eggs from Winipeg river.

Mac Tavish, Gov. William.—Skins and eggs of birds, &c., from the Red River
country. -

Mann, William.—Skins of Pinicola canadensis, Lake Superior.

rene W. Thomas.—Three boxes of skins, nests and eggs of Jamaican

irds.

Meck, F. B.—Series of fossils from New Jersey and Maryland.

Moore, Carleton R—Double tail of Limulus.

Michener, Dr. E.—156 crania of birds, and 54 of mammals; two boxes of
mimerals.

Onion, J. S—Plants, eggs, &e., from Fort Good Hope.

Palmer, Dr. E.—Fossils, minerals, &c., Pike’s Peak.

Parker, Rev. H. W.—Marine shells, United States, and two boxes of minerals
from New Bedford.

Parkinson, D. T—Skins and eggs of birds, Indian skulls, plants, &c., Fort
Crook, California

Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences —Seventy species of Melaniade.

Piper, Col., (10th regiment New York volunteer artillery.}—Rock specimens
and fossil wood from Fort Meigs, near Washington.

Poey, Prof. #.—Collection of bats and Neuroptera ; fishes from Cuba.

Poole, Henry —* Cone in cone” in slate. From a shaft sunk in the Harbor
Vein coal seam, Little Glacé Bay, Cape Breton.

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61

Prentiss, D. W—Series of skins of birds of the District of Columbia.
Quackenbush, Leslie R.—Fossils of the Utica slate.
Reed, John —Skins and eggs of birds from Big Island, Great Slave Lake. One
collection through L. Clarke, jr.
Reed, Peter —Sorex platyrhinus, Washington county, New York.
Richards, Thos.—Skins of birds, &c., from 'Temiscamingue.
Riotte, Hon. U—Reptiles and insects in alcohol, skins of birds, shells, &c.,
Costa Rica.
Ritchie, J. P—Skin and egg of Buteo pennsylvanicus from Massachusetts.
Rodgers, Commodore John—Kthnological collections of the North Pacific Ex-
ploring Expedition.
Ross, B. R.—A general zoological collection from Fort Simpson and vicinity.
Rousseau, E.—Box of shells from New York.
Saemann, L.—Box of European minerals.
Salisbury, Dr. S. H.—Scalops in alcohol from Fairfield county, Ohio.
Salle, A—Skins of Mexican birds.
Salvin, O.—Collection of birds of Guatemala, (150 species.)
Sartorius, Dr. C—Collection of birds, mammals, alcoholic specimens, &c.,
Mexico.
Schmidt, Dr—Birds from the vicinity of Washington, collected by the late
Chas. F. Schmidt.
Sclater, Dr. P. L.—Skins of Mexican birds.
Simpson, George B.—Copper spear-head, and other relics.
Sitka, Governor of.—Box of crustacea. (Through Mr. Jas. Hepburn.)
Springer, P. M.—Skins and sterna of birds, [inois.
Stimpson, Dr. W.—Three boxes of marine invertebrates of Great Britain; two
of American.
Stimpson, Dr. W. and R. B. Hitz —Three boxes shells, eggs, &c., Northamp-
ton county, Virginia.
Sumichrast, Prof. F—Mammals and birds of Mexico.
Surgeon General.—Tertiary fossils, Suffolk, Virginia.
Swan, J. G.—Indian curiosities, skins of birds, eggs, shells, fishes, &c., from
Puget Sound.
- Thomson, J. H —Box of New England shells.
Tolman, J. W.—Skins and eggs of birds of Illinois.
Trumbull, George—Wavellite from Chester county.
Tryon, G. W.—One hundred and twenty-five species of Melaniadea.
Olke, H.—Skins of birds from Wiinois.
Van Cortlandt, Dr. E—Mammals in alechol, skins of Lepidosteus, &c., from
Ottawa.
Frantzius, Dr.—Collection of birds and mammals from Costa Rica.
Velie, Dr. J. W.—Eges of Protonotaria citrea, &c., from Illinois.
Vienna Gevlogisches Reichs- Anstalt——Collection of Austrian fossils.
Walker, R. O—Vishes, shells, skulls, &c., Allegheny county, Pennsylvania.
White, Dr—Marine shells and skulls of mammals, Isthmus, Panama.
Willis, J. .—Shells, eggs, and fishes of Nova Scotia.
Willams College Lyceum,— Eggs of Greenland birds.
Wilson, N.—Seeds of plants from Jamaica. (Through Thos. Bland.)
Wingate, J. D.—Box of shells, Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.
Woodworth, Dr. J. M—Reptiles and insects from Memphis.
Wouton, W. G.—Skins and eggs of birds of Nova Scctia.
Wright, Chas.—Birds, shells, and insects of Cuba.
Wynne, Dr. Jas—Specimen of sphinx or hawk moth from Central America.

Xantus, John.—Fourteen boxes of mammals, birds, and other animals, plants
&c., from Manzanillo, Colima, &c.
62 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

LIST OF WORKS PUBLISHED IN 1863.

(155.) Ancient Mining on the Shores of Lake Superior. By Charles Whit-
tlesey. 4to., pp. 32, and one map. (Published April, 1863.) —

(146.) Meteorological Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Sir Leopold
McClintock, R. N. Made on board the Arctic searching yacht “Fox,” in
Baflin’s Bay and Prince Regent’s Inlet in 1857, 1858, and 1859. Reduced and
discussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution by Charles A. Schott,
Assistant United States Coast Survey. 4to., pp. 160, and one map.

A small edition of this work was published in May, 1862, but the final issue,
with corrections and additions, took place in 1863.

(166.) Records and Results of a Magnetic Survey of Pennsylvania and parts
of adjacent States in 1840 and 1841, with some additional Records and Results
of 1834, 1835, 1843, and 1862, anda map. By A. D. Bache, LL.D., F. R. S.,
Member of Corresponding Academy of Sciences, Paris; President of National
Academy ‘of Sciences ; Superintendent United States Coast Survey. 4to., pp.
88, and one map. (Published October, 1863.)

(169.) Researches upon the Anatomy and Physiology of Respiration in the
Chelonia. By S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and George R. Morehouse, M.D. 4to.,
pp: 50. (Published April, 1863.)

(156.) Catalogue of Minerals, with their Formulas, &c. Prepared for the
Smithsonian Institution by T. Egleston. 8vo., pp. 42.

(140.) List of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the Smithso-
nian tree by John L. Leconte, M.D. PartI. 8vo., pp.60. (Published
March, 1863.

(167.) New Species of North American Coleoptera. Prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution by John L. Leconte, M.D. Part I. 8vo., pp. 94. (Pub-
lished March, 1863.)

(142.) Bibliography of North American Conchology previous to the year
1860. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by W. G. Binney. Part I.
American authors. 8vo., pp. 658. (Published March, 1863.)

(171.) Monograph of the Diptera of North America. Prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution by H. Loew. Part II. Edited by R. Ostensacken. 8vo.,
pp. 340. (Published January, 1864.)

(160.) Instructions relative to the Ethnology and Philology of America.
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by George Gibbs. 8vo., pp. 36.
(Published March, 1863.)

(161.) A Dictionary of the Chinook Jargon or 'Trade Language of Oregon.
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by George Gibbs. 8vo., pp. 60.
(Published March, 1863.)

Systematic index to the list of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian
Institution, corrected to January, 1862. S8vo., pp. 16.

Appendix to the list of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution,
corrected to January, 1863. 8vo., pp. 7.

(170.) Comparative Vocabulary. Reprinted from the Smithsonian Instruc-
tions relative to ethnology and philology. 4to., pp. 20. (Published May, 1863.)

WORKS STILL IN PRESS.

(174.) Bibliography of North American Conchology. By W. G. Binney.
Part II. 8vo., 239 pages stereotyped.

(143.) Synopsis of Air Breathing Shells. By W.G. Binney. 8vo.

(144.) Synopsis of North American Vivipara, &e. By W.G. Binney. S8vo.

(145.) Monograph of American Corbiculade. By'Temple Prime. 8vo., (42
pages in type.

(177.) Check-list of North American Fossils; cretaceous formation. By F
B. Meek. 8vo.
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

(172.) Paleontology of the Upper Missouri. By F. B. Meek and F. V.
Hayden. 4to.

(165.) Monograph of North American Bats. By Harrison Allen, M.D. 8vo.

a On the Microscopic Structure of the Medulla Oblongata and the 'Tra-
pezium. By Dr. John Dean. 4to.

(175.) Discussion of the Magnetie and Meteorological Observations of Girard
College. By Prof. A. D. Bache. Part VII, VIII, IX. 4to.

(179.) List of publications of learned societies, periodicals, and encyclopedic
works in the library of the Smithsonian Institution, July 1, 1863.

(178.) Monograph of North American Hymenoptera. By H. De Saussure.
Part I. Edited by Edward Norton. 8vo.
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS

SMITHSONIAN

OF THE

FOR THE YEAR 1863.

INSTITUTION

Name of observer.

BRITISH AMERICA.

Acadia College
Baker, J. C
Clarke, Lawrence, jr
Connolly, Henr
Delaney, Edward M. J..-..

Everett, Prof. J. D
Flett, Andrew

Hall, Archibald, M. D
McFarlane, R

Magnetic Observatory
Murdock iG 25-3 .o.5-25 52
Phillips, H
Rankin, Colin
Richards, Thomas

MEXICO.

Laszlo, Charles
Sartorius, Dr. Charles

CENTRAL AMERICA.

Riotte, C. N
White, William T., M. D-.

WEST INDIES,

United States Consul
Julien, Alexis A

BERMUDA,

Royal Engineers, (in the
Royal Gazette.)

SOUTH AMERICA.

Hering, C. T

* A signifies Barometer, Thermometer, Psychrom-
eter, and Rain Gauge.

B signifies Barometer.

T signifies Thermometer.

Government Plantation Rustenberg,
colony of Surinam, Dutch Guiana.

P signifies Psy chrometer.
R signifies Rain Gauge.

N signifies no instrument,

t Above Lake Ontario.

No. of months
received,

—T

RPA RPD PNWOWN

uw

; ; ]
a = *
3 B 3g
Station. = ey 3
. a iS) at a
Z z ‘= 5
3 2 ‘© 4
A e ee) |
Cm eh Feet.
Wolfville, Nova Scotia --.---------- 45 06 | 64 25 hey | vk eae
Stanbridge, Canada East -.-....----.- 45).083|\ ava) OOM =: =o ec Ue ee
Port Rae Greatislaye wakes. .<-ee]. ose s- a=) sehen taelpeee ee ae Y aera
Lat Gis MV eG ly ee Se eae aaa bee 55 |losssacac aoacsos Ionita
Colonial Building, St. John’s, New- | 47 35 | 52 40 ale{O) || oid Bel eS
foundland. :
King’sCollege, Windsor, NovaScotia-| 44 59 | 64 07 DOONAN avert
| Fort McPherson, Hudson’s Bay Ter- | 68 00 | 135 00 740,0))| Biba sone
ritory.
Montreal, Canada Bast ..-.---.----- 45 30! 73 36 57 |, Avss some
HorteAndersones seeeecee eestor Tepe O | IPP lexi =— Sellorsso css;
Into Cisse) 2 anne SoS SNe OSE ee ad pecotsod sae ascosisecboons Saisie sie
Toronto, Canada West ----.--..-... 43 39 | 79 21 TLOB HACE eee.
Sta dolmnep Ne wats run sey Clos anne sete elelearele = [teeter =e tewietete Tepe 1835
Niagara, Canada West.........-.-.- 43 09 | 79 20 HO PAS ecuatates
Michipicoton, Canada West -..--.--. 47156) “Bo OGM So aeee Bre =
Kenogumissee, Hudson’s Bay Terri- | 49 50| 8400, 1,000) T.......
tory.
San Juan Bautista, Tabasco........ 17 47 | 92 36 MONA Se saree
Mirador) WersiOro7scn.s---eise~ cece 19° 15)|" 96" 25S TGOU MAS ane
San O86), Costa Rica) qc com cicero cin c's 9) 540 BalOG Nl S772) | ME eee
JM yy Es ad oso seoocossoaces Pa Vel aes SS cceqod| eee oc
U Rong {fal lb (oe secre Serr ic eSeescrOoe Sembee acd o> cicacs |oonadnad lonaoacacas
Sombrerotisland!=-~--eeven sete nas 18 55 | 63 27 AS | At iota
Centre Signal Station, Saint George’s.|........|.-------|-------- PAs iniisn rate

WOR VO

12
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §:.—OContinued.

g 3
. 2 £ zt
Name of observer. Station. County. 3 a : =
a a R=] 5
= é 2 2
A = es a
CALIFORNIA.
2 a Oy <4; Feet.
Ayres iv. ©. M. De.-- -- | San Francisco ...| San Francisco ---| 37 48 | 122 27 130! \ Aveo
al chem We - 152 — = =~ Marysville .- .-..- Mabe. ssc sac 39 29 | 121 30 80: PB2ESRS
forott, Charen... -+~-—-- - - Sacramento ..--. Sacramento -..-..- 38 31 | 121 29 601) Ree
Dunkum, Mrs. Elizab’h S-| Honcut -.....-- Wuha -. 5-520 -- Bey, || ee | bi ge a
Logan, Thomas M., M. D..| Sacramento -«--- Sacramento .-...- 38 35 | 121 28 AL Abseaas ce
Parkinson, David F -.---- Presidio of San | San Francisco---| 37 48 | 122 22 |.-....-. AS sea
Francisco.
Sn eee Spanish Ranche-.| Plumas-.--..-.--- 39 56 | 120 40 | 3,700} B.T.R..
COLORADO.
4s
Lutirell, James-...-..-.-.-- Montgomery .. .-| Park .........-- 39 00 | 106 00 | 13,000 | T..-----
CONNECTICUT. ‘
Gane Janyite =: <-222<5-- Canton 52 2062 Hartford 222%. 5. 42 00 |} 73 00 ODL PEER ee 3
Hunt, Rey. Daniel -.----- Pomfret =. 35. - 22 Windham ....... 41 52 | 72 23 SBT PGA. 25 esis
Johnston, Prof. John ...--. Middletown - ....| Middlesex -.....- 41 32) 72 39 TTD R APS RSet
Learned, Dwight W-.----- Plymouth .....-- Litchfield . ...--- 4) 40 | 73 03 |~...--. ee ES
Leavenworth, D. C-.-.-.-.--- New Haven ..... New Haven ...-. 4118] 7256 40)). BAR 3
Rockwell, Charlotte ------ Colebrook ....-.-.- Litchfield. ....... 4D, OOH 73706) .ss5 6-55 | ee Ae
Yeomans, William H ..--. Columbia. .-....-. Tolland ......... 41040) | i242) \. 2. eS Te ess
DAKOTA.
Williams, Herbert G.--.--- WAN artless 8 Oe, || PSS Snes cone COS TSS | eer STU ae al he
DELAWARE.
Hedges, Urban D., M.D--.| Wilmington ..... We i Castlans sess pees ements oatanne of Wah 22 pe 2
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
MacKee, Rey. C. B .-..--.-- Georgetown ..... Washington ..... Ciera! M703) AER AES Fh aie
Smithsonian Institution...| Washington ..... Washington ...-. 38 53 |} 77 01 600) Areas
FLORIDA.
Dennis, William C.-....... Key West -.....- Monroe ===. -sc.0% 24 33] 81 28 16: PBe te Ree
IDAHO
anni @O 2-5 5-—------ Morilinsramie. 2) |se sees 4210} 104 47} 4,472) T.......
imosseau, M. ©.......-.--- Hort Benton +o .: |2o=-ee eae 47A9\) VtO'S6; |! (2) T8OL Nese
ILLINOIS.
wmidrich, Verry ..--------- TUNKil Wal. Bureau-....2-5-- 4115/| 89 66 SpO HIN ce cees 3
Le Ghd a a Riley se. 9s0 se McHenry. .-.----. 4211) &8 20 7605 Rees
BACON en on aa ns Willow Creek 2.-/ ee. .---- 2-2-2 41 45)) 88°56) ) 1/0405) Noe ee
Baker, Nathan T.......-. | Belleville........ StiClaminris. =: 38 2 90 06 600 | B.T...
Ballou, N. E., M. D.--.--- Sandwich -...... Doe) Kalbiciie'..2 2: 41 31 | 88 30 663) Take 2s
Bandelier, Adolphus F.,jr-| Highland - ..-... Madison ........ 38 45 690461) cee BT. 2.
Blanchard, Orestes A-.... Bimira -\o-e ae Ptank tis yeas 47 32 )| -SOiot aes ae ote 2
Boettner, Gustav A...--.- @hicapoe--- ss COOks.- stn semase 41 54 SOr4Dtie ses oe BoE
Brendel, Frederick, M. D..| Peoria .-.. --.--- Peoria... oscee ee 40 43 | 8&9 3 AGOP AY 2) 2o52
Brookes, Samuel..-.-...--.. Chicago -2 (2.225 Cooksets 42.00 | 87 30 |.....-.. T4255 22
Byrne, ArthurM ..--...-. Chicago. 2t228 Copkvsse est 32 41 57 | 87 38 STRATEN 8) We
eg imothy- <=... .-: Jacksonville .. ..| Morgan -........ 39 30} $0.06 G76. |UTORT
areme, PONT =- 25-22... - | 2
Grant, Miss Ellen._.__.. Manchester -.-.... SEOth oe = oa Soe |} 3933] 90 34 683" \SA Tose
Griffing, Henry .-.......- Hazel Dell..--.--- Cumberland -- --. 39 O00 88100) |= -- ==. IPs cogtse |
Little, J. Thomas .-.-..... Dixon :.2.-s-s8ee eee 30. 2 AWARD SOS) 522. ---- Le |
Livingston, Prof. Wm -...| Galesburg -.----. Ranpxye. 5 oat [eee eat | ere le oceans f \aerleetes
Mead, 8. B.)M)D.....-.- | Augusta .... <-.- Hancock’: 2:2: ./.. 4010); 91 00 xy ta) Lt Bi a Pe
Merwin, Mrs. Emily H....| Ottawa.-..------ Bag Sallé Sees 41 20} 88 47 SAMO | Rare
ENOC S'S: Pekin -..2.2¢2cee Tazow elliesez 40 36 tet) 29) | ewe oe IB: PRs
Rogers, O. P. and J. S....| Marengo....-... McHenry 21228 3x2 4214{/ 8&3 842 ) B. T. R..
Tolman, James W.....--. Winnebago De- | Winnebago .....| 4217] 89 12 900 | B. T. R-.
pot.
INDIANA,
Anderson, Henry H...... Rockville -.. .-.. Parke': soso <0 oon 36 00} 87 00/ 1,100) T.R...
Burroughs, Reuben....... South Bend - .... St. Joseph. -.-... 41 39 | 86 7] 600), "2. Be 228
* Above low-water mark at Quincy.
os

of months

received.

No.

ar A WOHPH HOO

Hh
ww

i a

aa)

i)
"201 WH WWONVMORWNHMH AN

te
o~
—, =
66

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c.—Continued.

* o
3 E
Name of observer. Station. County. 3 FI
a 3
al o
° i:
2 | &
INDIANA—Continued.
ov (co. out
Chappellsmith, John. --.-. New Harmony .--| Posey -.--------- 38 08 | &7 50
Crozier, Dr. &. S...-.---- New Albany.-.---- Floyd ---..------ 38 02 | 8&5 29
+e Co GG Sy as See oe | Henry ----.----- 39 55.| 85 20
Dawaon, William - -- -- ) | Spiceland . ...... Henry -<ass+ 4-0. 39 48| 85 18
Dayton, James H ......-. South Bend...--- St. Joseph....-.. 41 39 | 8&6 07
Flaines mahne seca 252545 Richmond ..-.--- Wayne ...-..-.-- 39 52] 84 59
Welm, Thomas B ...-.---. Logansport - ....) CasS------ ------ 4045 | 86 13
Larrabee, William H..-.. Greencastle. ----- Putnam,....----.. 39 30 | &6 47
Mayhew, Royal ....------ Indianapolis -.--- Marion --- =e 39 55 | 86 00
Rambo, Edward B.....--.. Richmond ....--- Wie eOsasa sot sc 39 47 | &4 47
Redding, ‘Thomas B -..--.- Newcastle -.-22.| Henry .... -.----. 39 55 | 85 27
Bice: Mg soe) dose anne Muncie ..--..-. ..| Delaware. .....- 40 12] 88 20
IOWA.
Briggs. WH. ~ses-ceen=- ae Mount Pleasant..} Henry .-..-..---- 41 00} 91 38
Chamberlaim, John .---. q Ma
Dunwoody, Wm. P..... Davenport -- ---- i sacs ost 41 30 | 90 40
Collin, Prof. Alonzo .---.. Mount Vernon...) Linn - -...-.-.--- 42 00 | 91 00
Doering, DASess-ss---=-5 Independence. -..| Buchanen;---.---|.--.2---|2 5.02 --|-s-e- oe
Moyle; ti = t= .--=- == Waterloo - .-.--- Black Hawk...-. 42 30 | 92 31
Farnsworth, P. J., M. D..| Lyons ---. -.-.--- Chintoniess.- = -- 41 50 | 9010
Hosters sueliass-t-- 25-6 Muscatine ..-.--- Muscatine ....... 41 26 | 92 00
Gidley, Isaac M ..-.------ BANCO ee Marshall.-...-... 42 00 | 93 00
Morr, sAsa, Ms Diy. ---...% Dubuque - ------ Dubuque --- = 2-- 42 30 90 52
MeConnel, Townsend... -.-. Pleasant Plain..-.|} Jefferson .....---. 41 07 | 94 54
McCoy, Franklin, M. D. ;
McCoy, Miss Elizabeth... Al pongo aac is 32 5| AX GRSUb DEE sees ol 43 O01 | 94 04
McCready, Daniel .--..--. MorteMadison§ a...) WueGl-oen- os cae eels 40 37 91 28
Marshall, Gregory ... ---- Vernon Springs..| Howard ....-.... 43 20) 92 12
Millard, Andrew J..«..---- Sioux City.-----. Woodbury .. ---. 42:33 | 96 27
Parvin, Prof. Theodore S-..| Iowa City --.----. OOHNKONSel'= <n iaiaie AL SGulls eeeese
Sheldon, Daniel ......-.-.- Forestville .. ---. Delaware . ...... 42 40 | 91 50
Townsend, Nathan .....-. Towa Falls... ..-. Hardin .c. 0468 42 32'| 93 20
Walton, Josiah P........- Muscatine -.-.... Muscatine ..--.--- Al25 | 92 02
Wheaton, Alex, Camp....| Independence---.| Buchanan .....--. 42 25 | 92 00
KANSAS,
Browne @. Ee a- set Ridgeway ..-.---- OSE Cr se cnl nae 39 02} 95 11
Drew, Hee. Wd, ea) WE OUuN ENE Oya ne ar-!| arene nce oe tare 39 00 | 96 30
Fuller, Arthur N......... Lawrence -...--- Douglas ---. --.. 38 58} 95 13
Goodnow, Isaac T..-.... A =
Dente tee eli } Manhattan .. .... Riley teeta 39 13 | 96 45
Soule; W. LL. G. --..3---<5 Lawrence ..-..-.- Douglas -......-.. 38 58 | 95 13
KENTUCKY.
Matthews, Jos. McD.,D. D.| Nicholasville -. ..| Jessamine -...... 37 58 | 8418
Woodruff, E. N..-.------ Louisville ....... Jefferson ........ 38 22 | 85 38
Young, Mrs. Lawrence --.| Louisville - ..-..- Jefferson ..-..-... 38 O7 | 85 24
MAINE.
Brackett, Geo. Emerson. -..| Belfast .-.--..-.. Wialdoi-c2-26 <i 44 23 |} 69 08
Dane Wyrm ss sec. 58 North Perry -.--. Washington ..-.. 45 00 | 67 06
Gardiner, Reqkt.-. ose. 552 Gardiner .-...... Kennebec. ...... 4441} 69 46
pills Ge. Wis oni - 25 Cornishville ----. WOT Re cmon otis 43 40] 70 44
MIOOTEMARGE ceccic ae ccenis MisbOneeeeer ese Androscoggin ...} 4400] 70 04
LEGIT Sd al Be a ae ee Steuben .. ...-..| Washington ..... 44 44] 67 50
THY ,
Pitman, Edwin... .. .. ; Nineties hae Piscataquis’ =:)- --))) SSS eee Soe cece
Pitman: Mark ©... 52.2.-.. Hoxcrofija- +. +=: Piscataquis ....-- 4512} 6913
Reynolds, Lauriston ...-.- East Wilson..... Franklin ..-...... 44 44] 7017
Van Blareom, James ..-... Vassalboro’ ..... Kennebec .......| 44 28 | 69 47
Wiest; Pildsl-.22e. SUS; ..-,2 Comsish 35: 22... VYorkeweckiscc. .:. 43 40 | 70 44
- _ (i) Wexten=ae-- pn. Penobscot -...... 44 55 | 69 32
Wilbur, Benj. F .... .. 2), Weatiwaterville:|)Kennebec’. -.....|.....ces\asebeene|s=< sn
MARYLAND,
Baer, Miss Harriott M..... Sykesville .. .... Carrols. 2832: 39:23 | 76 57
Dutton, Prof. J. Russel...| Chestertown .. ..| Kent............ 39 12 | 75 59
Goodman, William R..... Annapolis ......-. Anne Arundel 38 59 | 76 29

£
Pr 3
a 5
Aa <
o 22
ie 4a
Feet. P
BUA) We ee ae
Be CBoR De Ber
TOGO), Sober
Ba Arno c Bat
600 TB:
sjajeeeete Bat <
600). EER S:
800.) Nice ee
698 | T.R .->.
800 | T. P. R-:
1,000) Bal.
2s eeae ee BoD a2
de crease | TT Bisse
TOY WAS sa emee
< waamabte i eee
WW Masase
nical Se NS: 238
AQM |) RSE 6
aohe=se- IN Sekine
page | TR...
6664 | PA se
950 | T.R.
1500) Gases
Serer ae ME eer
i ccames GP aioe
1,258 | TR...
G21 Ae eee
te ote ea dee as
SA Bee ADS Lash
SO PACs cists
acaaeers Wi Ba eee =
850) eNiS2. -=
1,300 | TR ...-
STOR HR ean
L000; | Fi R 2
SON eh enacts
940 || PAssae2
Ro ache Yee
STON |W oa cece
secidsasta Te
10) |} MAassee 2
90 | BT. RR.
BOOM! AT. Res
ASO poe
SOW) Abseesk28
Mi gee
SS is Pease
Ae cieete Se Niacteseg
Siam iobianeie Be
64) RA ==
700: | Re
ot EST oe
700,|) Gab, Ieee
Ss aiata ete pe
OO) | PAvetamsiaiee

| No. of months
received.

+
WWRAAwWCNwons |

i

ra
=

aad

BK i
wo NVWACHKRUG JN

fee
WHWP WW AW

=
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c.—Continued.

5

No. of months
received,

s s
a 2 = z
Name of observer. Station. County. = 2 P
] ° : £
= ee aaa ee EB
w oO =— |
3 a eZ
: Z E se a
MARYLAND—Continued.
. oy oo Feet.
Hanshew. Henry L..-..-.-. Frederick ...--.- Frederick - ....-- BOE Ai MlereO) | = =e Aiea
Lowndés, Benjamin O....] Bladensburg..--.. Prince George’s..| 38 57 | 76 58 Ld: |) rate
Stephenson, Rey. James.-| St. Inigoes....... St. Mary’s-.-..-- 38 10} 76 41 49>|| Bacto crs 3
MASSACHUSETTS.
Astronomical Observatory.| Williamstown ...| Berkshire . ....-. 42 43 | 73 13 686 | B. T. R..
Bacon, William ........-- Richmond...-...- Berkshire ......- 42 23 73 20 TSO Os Sats haya =
Barrows, N., M. D....--- Sandwich . ....-- Barnstable ...... ATES GOR OU | se = ce ayes ROSES henna
Caldwell, John H......-.. Topshelde: 22. ==. | TIS80X *- 2525/2 Saas oe eee ee 9- oon ois iy ears
Davis, Rev. Emerson... .. Westfield. .....-.. Hampden -.-.-.--.| 4206 | 72 48 IUS{ON I VRE WSS
Dewhurst, Rey. Eli -..--- Baldwinsville. ...| Worcester ....--- 42 37 | 72 05 847 | BL. T. R--
Mallon, John Mee: -.-:--.- Lawrence ....-.. BO) -[-). ae ene ee 42 42) 7111 Pasa WiAweer =.c52
fetcalf, John Geo., M. D..| Mendon ..-.-...... Worcester -..---.- 4206)! Wile Baei. oss ee Bod; He:
rentiss, Henry C., M. D..| Worcester ....--. Worcester -....-.. 42 16| 71 438 O20 plea
Rodman, Samuel ..--.-.--.. New Bedford....|} Bristol .-.....-.- 41 39 | 70 56 OO) | av cem roe:
BSgell) Prot by: S222. -- Amherst i: /. 215=.4 Hampshire .....- 42 22 | 72 34 P1370 een
MICHIGAN.
Migker spr: GH 2.2-4: .
eee ; Marquette ....... Marquette ....... 46.331) seas |’ «. Gap.\eads, 32
Kedzie, Prof. R. C.-.----.. Mansinp)-2.)34-.2 Tn pham tyra ye AD AD | Sawa |e 252 4o3 Airs 3.6824
Schetterly, Henry R..-.-. Northport ....--- Leelenaw . .-...- LOYAL Weta. 1 eee bee
isp on sefne) LM 2 Boe eae Holland --):..5...) Ottawae<.c.2--2 42 00 | 86 00 G80 0 Races
Van Orden, Wm., jr------ Clifton.) 525 2)4.<: Keweenaw ...... 47 0G | 88 00 800) Mia ce see
Whelpley, Miss Florence E.} Monroe..--.-..-.. Monroee eee: - + 41 56 | 83 23 990))), AR oat
Myoodard) ©0822... n.5 Ypsilanti........ Washtenaw ..... 4215 | 83 47 COU Ae ee aarceee
MINNESOTA.
Grave, Mary A..-.-\.-.-.. Tamarack ......-. He GSyebatch obs sly Gee Cet PIE |r eee SS ee
eet y OUPE eof ae. sia m= ay<)015 DUaSCA = =\-/ne})sst- 5.4 Anoka 5 42Je0 2: 45,15} 93 28 067 |aleeeenieed
Paterson, Rev. A. B.,D.D.| St. Paul -....... Ramsey)---2:.=-: 44 57 | 93 05 r= 10 0) st © pe
pimith, Henry I.........- Forest City-...--. WIG) 29 eran one ADS) | (OF 28) qa. ser Ube Lene
VCE GWA C'e ae See Beaver Bay -.... Dakeye wn 2-)- cae 47 17) 91 18 | 65%) Bae oe, a
MISSOURL
Christian, John........... Barrisonyille >. ..:|) Casseo- 265 oas-it|o= = saceduenieees|s 20s oo LUE SBE S
Engelmann, George, M.D.| St. Louis..-....- St. Louis......-. 38.37 | 90 15 CRIMI Ge oe
Fendler, Augustus. .....-. Sty Mouisten se. 3 Sti Donises ccc: 38 37} 90 16 470 |) Bo Done.
SO is a Laborville ...... Stlovisess cha. Clonreoil etl 5 2 he eros
Lo Git UR OA a Kirksville ......- A Gain ayeeiios 40 38 | 9250] 1,000) N.......
ikey, George P--.....-.-. Canton <--5 45! Mewis!/se ses, 1-2 AUD 0 ONS yal es | Wieece 24
Tidsweil, Miss Mary Alice-| Warrenton ..-.-.. Warren ......-.| 3837 | 91 16 825) | aeee ae
NEBRASKA.
Bowen, Miss Anna M. J...| Elkhorn City ....| Douglas --......-. A 235) 96125) 1,000) |My eee
PAN, @ONN 2-2-2... Fontenelle ...... Washington ..... 41 31 96 45 MS OOO: eit Rticsreres
Hamilton, Rev. Wm....-- Bellevue soca. 2 Sarpy? soe sersaae AL TOBN pe Qe on |terietaiey=lsy= TLISVEY ajmi «0
NEW HAMPSHIRE,
Brown, Branch .--.. -..-.. Stratford ....-... C008) 22=- =< <-sa08 CRIME a7 AWS OS aa, oFO gg es
SPURS TIOUTS 2-2 .. =. Claremont ...... Sullivan ........ 43 22 | 72 21 539 | B.T.R
French, Isaac §., M. D-.-.| Loudon Ridge ...| Merrimack .. .--. | 43° 20R hk dees 475; We Biswas.
Nason, Rey. Elias .-....-.. Hxeter 55 sae oe Rockingham... .. 42 58 | 70 55 TIPJ iil 15 Be
Odell, Fletcher .... ...... Shelburne --....- (015)0): | See ee 44 23 71 06 100%) 35. a 2
Pitman, Charles H.-...... North Barnstead.| Belknap.....---. ASPOOul gets |= inie<.< 5 Li bare
Peatith, Hennes ots. North Littleton ..| Grafton... ....-. AAO Ge OM ec =. 3 S)0 1) eee
Whiting, Robert C........ Littleton .. .-...- Grafton) <.-.5/-4.: 44 20 eT2nO0H lh. 2.3 =. NS ee
NEW JERSEY.
Beans, Thomas J.......-. Pragress: - =). 9-56 MESNTIN PEON) 124-16 = 12 \=,<¥o-/ae so |etas sari oe 30) (isan buee
Brooks; Wim) 2222.---2... Bassaie ‘Vialleyiven Pasha tye semeetsce lacie a ae | taper yae|o nie sista law AONE 5
Cooke, Robert L ..-...... Bloomfield .. ...-. BISSOX Seach -% 40 49 | 74 08 120) || AS so; oas
Heacon, John ©... ....- 0. Burlington .....- Burlington se cbs 22 saris hase cece | 2,20 >,21<5 see ae
Rhees, Morgan J.,M. D...| Mount Holly..--. Teiendibevesicc vc) Sete as A eee Eas |e 30) gael ee
Stokes, Howard A........ Long Branch ....| Monmouth .. .... 40 20 | 74 06 LO hip Dey Etieeete
Thompson, George W ..--| New Brunswick..| Middlesex ....... 40 30 | 75 31 90) serene

Whitehead, W.A........ Newark ......... HRSEX! Swi scan oe 40 45 | 74 10 35 | B. T. R..
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c.—Continued.

Name of observer.

NEW YORK.

Arden, Thos. B
Barrows, Storrs
Bartlett, Erastus B....---
Beauchamp, Wm. M..---.-
Bowman, John
Cowing, Philo
Dill, John B
Denning, William H......
Dewey, Prof. Chester... 2
Kreyer, Carl T......... 5
Gregory, 8. O---=----.---
Guest, W. E
Heimstreet, John W..----
Holmes, Dr. E. S.- Bini
House, John C
Howell, Robert.....--.--.
Inealsbe, Greenville M. --.
Mack, Rev. Eli T
MeMore, P. A-..----.-----
Malcom, Wm. Schuyler...
Mathews, M. M., M. D.--.
Morris, Prof. Oran W...---
PPBInG wets, Me en acnc
Pratt SeMANICL a cir == mea =e
Roe, Rev. San. W., M. D-
Russell, Cyrus H
Spooner, Dr. Stillman ..-..
Swiit, Lewis
Wakeley, Chas. C., Ruth-
erford’s Observatory.
Warren, James H
White, Aaron
Willis, Oliver R

OHIO.

AD elitun phan eintecinccaras
ACaM a BO Pec -menccemae
Atkins, Rev. L. S
Benner, Josiah F...-.....
Clark Wins Poe. ==. =<
Colbrunn, Edward....----
Cotton, D. B., M. D
Crane, George W..-..----
Dille, Israel
OLE Ute eee eet ;
Griffing, C.S. S......--

Engelbrecht, Lud
Fraser, James
Hammitt, John W...-----
Harper, George W.-.-----

Haywood, Prof. John -- ;

Hill, F. G
Huntington, George C....
Hyde, Gustavus A
Hyde, Mrs
Ingram, John, M. D...--.
Jerome, A. E
King, Mrs. Ardelia C.-.---
Larsh, Thomas J
McClung, Charles L
MeMillan, Smith B
Mathews, Joseph MeD....
Newton, Rey. Alfred
Peck, Wm. R., M. D...-.--
Peirce, Warren
Phillips, R. C. and J. H.--
Samms, Dr. C. C
Schauber, Hubert A.-.---.
Sniith, CH, MD. 22...
Thompson, Rey. David. --

|

. oa | m2
i)
3 = a ay
: = iF ae |e 3
Station. County. 3 = & ip
eS g z # 6s
: Bt 2 ae) Se hee
A S ss) Me A
join ayy Gnak Feet. 7
Garrison’s -.--- -- Putnam’----.---- 41 22) 74 02 180 8
South Trenton. -.-.} Oneida --.-..-.---- 43 DOM OMA Danes <5 eee 2
Vermillion. .-..--- Oswego ..------- 43 26 | 77 26 Sele Dee 12
Skaneateles - ---- Onondaga ....-..- 43 00 | 76 30 932 | B. T 11
Baldwinsville. ...| Onondaga -.----. 43/04) WGA ic. sses DEES .see 12
Seneca Falls----- Seneca. --s--- 42 54] 76 51 463 | B.T 4
AnD Geass =< Cayuga -.-.....- 4255 | 74 28}........ J eae iz
Fishkill Landing.) Dutchess .--..... 41 34} 7418 42); B.T.R 12
Rochester - ------ Monroe ... .....- 43 08] 77.51 516 | B.T.R 11
Theresa ....--- ..| Jefferson ....--.- 4412] 75 48 365) |DR .s22| We
Ogdensburg -.-.-. St. Lawrence....| 44 43 | 75 37 279 Neeeeces '
trove e ateae state Rensselaer -- .--. 42 44] 73 37 58 | AMR ....
yndli@ne Ace ee Niagarac--o---< 43 20] 78 56 250)|) Tee seas
Waterford .. ..-. Saratoga .......- 42 47) 73 39 10) |e eee
Nichols...-.---.- EDO 2 Beem eter AOD A MONS ee sincnie cele eee 12
South Hartford ..| Washington -.-... AS DS Fave 490: |) ToRY. 22 5
Flatbush .......- Ran pps eee eae 40 37 | 74 02 54 | B.T.R.- 8
Fort Ann...--..- Washington ...-. 42 3 7344 | 1,430) TR... 2
Oswego... .-...- Oswego .-.------ 43 28 | 76 30 250 | B. T. RK. 12
Rochester . -.-..- Monroee ees -eek = 43 08 | 77 51 D2) || -Av ae ee 12
New York.....-.- New York..-....-. 40 43 | 74 05 25) || ame eate 12
Glinton 222 =2ee-0 Q@neida:s2s--5- 5 43 03 | 75 15 600, |) hee Re 12
Fredonia .:.-...-. Chautauqua ..... 4220 FON24 |e eee ae Bed, Ke 1
Jamestown .-.-.- Chautauqua ..... 42.06 | 7919) 1,454) TR... 1
Gouverneur -.--. St. Lawrence....) 4419} 75 29 |.....--.. BTR 12
Wampsville -.--. Madison ......-.- 43 04} 75 50 500 | T.R.--- 12
Marathon . ..--.-.- Cortland’S--- -...- AQ) 2A AN TGNOO MSs <2 = Te Ries 5
New York .:...- New York....... 40 44 | 73 59 41 | (As eaeasee 1
NUON ee ee - Rockland - -..--- AD 3031) WES cer ane Re i
Cazenovia .. .... Madison .-..-..-.- €2.55'|| 75 46) 1,260) A 2. 2222 6
White Plains ....| Westchester ..... A105) |. SRAON S. -cecs Ce ase 12
Welshfield ...-.-. Geanga-22.5-s-65 41 23 | SL 12))) 12050, << 12
Marietta ----=-' Washington ..-.. 39 25} 81 31 630 |e 1
Saybrook - ...-.. Ashtabula -..-.-- 41 52} 81 OL (510) |) WY Soeeece 2
New Lisbon ..... Columbiana -..... 40 45 | 80 45 961 | B. T. R-- 12
Medina, ==.=- 2... Medina) aes~5- == ALOT AMM BU ATE os Anam Ave acre 2
Cleveland .....-. Cuyahoga .....--. 41 30} 81 40 6654 MEeeneee 12
Portsmouth... --- Scioto: -22ke... 38 45 | 82 50 BPS Tepes | 1
Bethelie sc. 2 2 - Clermont - ...:-- 39 00 | 84 00 Bouter 12
Newark ......--. ickmp see. < 40 07 | 8&2 21 S825) |i eee 8
Austinburg ... -- Ashtabula .....- 41 54} 80 52 BL) Bo TR 12
Portsmouth....-- OUCH) ae ao HOS SRe 38 42 | 82 36 Dot |\eopmte ket 9
Littie Hocking -.] ‘Washington -.... 39 254 CSIOON cena. Slesssese 2
College Hill -.--. Hamilton. ..-....| 3919 | 84 26 B00" MR Sse a2)
Cincinnati -.-.--- Hamilton > ----.* 39 06} 84 27 “D008 cone. sent 12
Westerville. ..... Mranklin:. 2es-<: - AD 04: ||) "83¥000)| 6... -25 PASS Ooae.-| 8
Kingstones-----= ROSSiae eee a see = 39 29 | 83 00 6929] AES oo 3
Dallasburg -....- Warren .. ...---| 39 30] 84 31 SOOM Nesce eee il
Kelley's Island...| Erie...........-- 41 36 | 82 42 Bey | AGAR 12
| Cleveland .. .. ..) Cuyahoga ....... 41 30} 81 40 643) | Bo. wae 12
Savannah -.....- Aphland ==. 2 4WIZh | MB2I3I") 1, OSB AS yseee} 7
New Westfield. -..}| Hood..--.-.-.--- 4113 | 88 49 692)| IR 2
Madison -. --.-.- WGaKG)- teen ao se. - 41 50] 81 00 6204). DoR eee 2
Waton scene a= Preblevess-. 2. =< 40°GO}> -74200)) 1,400.) Dis. 22222 | 1
WON NPS eas ascgse Miamineoe oe... 40 03! 84 06 POS se clephee 5
Wast Fairfield. ...| Columbiana - .... AD AT POOraes yd, 152") AC Sai Ssce 12
Pullsborouph 22 - =| (highlands <. c.- <3| oc aera eteernettall eiarclale = 2) ys Se 6
Norwalk ----25-: is hhh [2 Nee AUIS) tee BOs se pier Be 12
Bowling Green...| Wood .......---- 41 15°} 83 40 | 700 | B.T.R-- 12
Garrettsville..-... Portage =t -=..2.|- 41 250 sho 900) | 0 sae 3
Cincinnati ----.-- Klamilten’ 2. =... 39 06 | 84 27 540 | B.T.R. 12
Hillsborough ....|- Highland - :. ....).....<c- Peeretese tk 1,.120;) Dok 2
Cardington ...-.- MOD OW eet sae = 40 30 | 83 OU |j.+...... Nees | 1
Kenton... s2s.0. Hardinijesc-<- == ALB OM CARA | 2A Noy) We ae | 1
Milnersville . ....] Guernsey . ....-. 40MLOM MEU) |. no] aes | eae

* Above low-water in the Ohio river at Cincinnati.

—
\

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

- . ? .
List of meteorological stations and observers, §c¢c—Coutinued.

Name MPobserver.

oHI0—Continued.

Thompson, Rey. Elias. --.
Thompson, Prof. H. A...-
Trémbley, J. B., M. D..-.
Ward, Rev. Ll. F..---.....
VG ee es
Williams, Prof. M. G
Wyason Prot. J. H..-...--
Young, Prof. Chas. A--.. ;
Ghee Os (Os meee

OREGON.

a
Tronside, R. B.. BE Mieiose ss
Willis, PoWaesessss-csees-

PENNSYLVANIA.

Atwater, H. H

Bentley, E. T
Boyers) Wi bee=----" =--=-
MICK ALiENs Go. o2 25 a:.~ <<
Brugger, Samuel.........
Darlington, Fenelon
Eggert, John

Friel, P

Hance, Ebenezer
Heisiey, Dr. John
PHCKOR Nips =.= 22% «ote
Hoffer, Dr. Jacob R.-.-.-.--
wacobs, Rev. Mo... = 2...

4 ry) 7h A 2 eee

Kirkpatrick, Prof. Jas. A
Kohler, Edward
Lyceum, Jefferson College
Martindale, Isaac C....---
Meehan, Thomas.-..-.--

Meehan, J
Muller, Prof. Rudolph---.
Ralston, Rev. J. Grier. .-.
Ricksecker, Lucius E...-.
Savery, Thos. H
Smith, Wm.,D. D-.-..-----
Swift, Dr. Paul
Taylor, John
Walker, Robert L
Weeks, James A .-.....-.-.- |

RHODE ISLAND.

Caswell, Prof. Alexis..--.
Sheldon, H. C

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Marsh, M. M., M. D.... ;
EMAAR NRE so} e

TENNESSEE.
Stewart, Prof. Wm. M....
UTAH.

Pearce, Harrison
Phelps, W. W

VERMONT.

Buckland, David
Chickering, Rev. J. W ---
Cutting, Hiram A
Marsh, M. M., M. D......

Station. County. Bs &
si =
e | 3
’ z =
Out fev
Croton’ s-ssesee2 Lickingjj22255 - .- 4013 | 82 38
Westerville. .-..- Franklin ..-..... 40 04 | 83 00
Tolédo scee-eo ce. Lucas: e222 ee! 41 139)} 82 32
Weliington -.---. Eoraines2+)2)5 41 08} 81138
Cincinnati ..-.---.-. Hamilton 62/5)... 39 08 | 84 35
Wrbana-s-—2=5-- Champaign .-.--- 40 06 | 83 43
College Hill ..... Hamilton - .....- 39.19 | 84 25
Hudson. -32.065 == Summit ....-....| 4115] 81 24
ABU 2-252) DAKer esas toe POLS Gl baensrca
RIG) Toews 5 oe Mariotes-y- 25 44 56 | 123 01
Susquehanna De- | Susquehanna....| 4200] 75 30
pot.
POR B= Staree nnn MOP aie taclere sil santas ieee ale cieete as
Blairsville .....-. Indiana sae) = 5 40 3L | 74 43
Silver Spring. --..}| Lancaster .....-. 40 05 | 76 45
Fleming .. ..-... Coniressne-e e+e 40 55 | 77 53
Parkersville ...-. Chester: 25¢8-< 39 54] 75 37
Benwick st. &2 22-3 Columbiaies—--- 4105] 7615
Shamokin -..-..- Northumberland -} 40 45 | 76 30
Philadelphia .. ..| Philadelphia -. --| 39 57 | 75 50
Morrisville ...... IBUCKSieEHsen 40 12| 74 48
Harrisburg .----- Dauphin .. -..-.- 4016] 7615
Harrisburg ...... Dauphine ss 40 20 | 76 50
Mount Joy ---.--- Lancaster -....-- 40 08 | 76 30
Gettysburg .¢. ..| Adams ..-.....- 39 49} 77 15
Philadelphia .. ..| Philadelphia ...-| 3957] 75 10
North Whitehall.}| Lehigh .......... 40 40 | 75 26
Cannonsburg....| Washington ..... 40 17} 80 10
By berry J--2 442. Philadelphia ....| 4005 | 75 00
Germantown’ .. 3:|/"Philadelphia ~~... |. .<-22'..|s=<s--=.
Pitisburpyses 4. - Alleghany .. ..-. 40 30 |} 80 09
Norristown .----- Montgomery .--.| 4008] 75 19
Nazareth -.------ Northampton....| 40 43] 75 21
Altoona) sss5s4=. Blairs. esses 40 35 | 78 22
Cannonsburg .--..| Washington ...-.. 40 16} 80 10
West Havertord..| Delaware . ....-- 40 00} 75 21
Conneilsville .. ..| Fayette......... 40 00} 79 36
Moorhead ..-..-- Allephamy 32 se. [Seco S. |seecs ame
OW City see ee ee ee ere eee acces tame Unesco
Providence .....- Providence .....- 4149] 71 25
Providence --.--.- Providence ...... 41 50 | -71 25
Beaufort ....---- Beaufort ......-- 32 20 | 80 46
‘
Clarksville ...... Montgomery... --. 36 28 | 87 13
St. George..----. Washington -..--. 37 00 | 114 00
Salt Lake City ..| Salt Lake ....-.. 40 45 | 111 26
Brandons.s0ss<< Rutland ):. 4. 4-4: 43.45 |} 73 00 |
Springfield ...... Windsor .- 2.-.. 43.18 |. 72 33
Lunenburg .....- LIS). 2 ea Se 44 28] 71 41
Montpelier .....- Washington ..... 44.17 | 72 36

481

Instruments.

69

No. of months
received.

Be

ee
RR ONRMOOCW WwW

12

ww

a

[a
Clio em to
* - ‘
70 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

DEATHS OF OBSERVERS.

Dr. 8. P. Hildreth, Marietta, Ohio, July 24, 1863.
’ 'T. F. Pollard, Brookfield, New Hampshire, August 19

, 1863.

Hon. Robert Hallowell Gardiner, Gardiner, Maine, March 22, 1864.

David Buckland, Brandon, Vermont, July 19, 1864.

List of meteorological stations ae observers, &c.—Continued.
* a m
7 = 3 Pa
a ie = & | eg
Name of observer. Station. County. = =) 8 gE
= io} 43
a S a 5 S 3
. * = 3 2 3 era
" A = 5 8 A
VERMONT—Continued.
= o.4 OLe Feet.
Mead, Stephen O-.-...--.-- Rutland -........ Rutland ayers sede e eens eee ee eee i ee 5
Paddock, James A Craftsbury ----- Orleans --.- ---.-. 4440) 7229) 1,100) T.R-.- 12
Parker, Joseph.....-.-.--. West Rupert .-..| Bennington. .--.| 4315] 73 11 [50 Riese 3
Petty, McK .---.......... Burlington ...... Chittenden ...--- 44 27 | 7310 SOT, Wate neaeee 12
Pollard, © 5 -- sos... Brookfield .. .--- Orange —-- ------ 44°02)) T2i36)|-..--—2- NR, sei 5
Tobey, James K --........ Calais -.-. --..-- Washington ----. Ag 22 |) #21 09))|- eee a eco 1
WASHINGTON,
Swan, JamesG.......-..-. Neeah Bay ...---|-.s0+0+--0-+------ 28 41 | 124 37 400 Ee eatces 12
WISCONSIN,
Armstrong, § ...-..------ Waterford ...-.. Racine - ..-.----- 42 48} 88 13 |....---- eee 5
UDO) YER See Sp cecoaes Rocky Run..---. Columbia. --.----- A3526 0) sOoreOl |= = seen =e TUR sess 8
Ellis, Edwin, M. D...-.-.-- Odanah........- Ashland .. .----- 46 33 | 91 00 610); BARnocee 9
Gridley, Rey. John.....-.. Kenosha .. .----- Kenosha -. ------ 42 35 | 87 50 600 | B.T. R-. 1
Kelley, Charles W--.----- Delafield’ ~~ —- 2. Waukesha .. ---. 43 06 | 88 36 900))) Bales 6
Lapham, Iner’se A., LL.D-| Milwaukee--.---- Miwaukee-.----- 43 03 | 87 59 Ooh Aue o tocar Uy
Ups, SACOD = --- = -2s-5- Manitowoc .-.---. Manitowoe . -...| 44 07 | 87 45 6587 | Bios 12
Mann, William ..-.-...---- Superior .--..--. Douglas .-.. --.. 46 46 | 92 03 6803) Wim Ser 6
Mathews, George.-.--.---- Brighton ss... Kenosha .. .....- 42 36 | 88 03 200,,\\ Nb 23. ee 6
LUGE TRC ROSE r aoeeae— Waupaca. ..-.--- Waupata - --..-- AA OO NBO | arc cre Woe seus ee 1
Porter, Henry D ......... Beloit. Jefe 2425 Rock, esseeesne 42 30} 89 04 750, | Bat. 12
Sterling, Prof. John W.-.-.-| Madison .. .....- Dane oe sete === 43.05 | 189925 | 1,068} A -- -.- 10
Whiting, Wm. H..-.----. Geneva ........- Walworth .. .... 42: 205 |7aSOVal joo. oa8 Pi scnscs 8
Winkler, Carl, M. D..-.-.- Milwaukee-...... Milwaukee- 43 03 | 87 57 600 | B. T. R-- a2]
Woods, William ......... Weyauwega..... Waupaca......-- 4415} 88 50 BOO) eae 12

Colleges and other institutions from which meteorological registers were received

during the year 1863, included in the preceding list. :
oval Scotias.. sco. eeeeioeee Acadia College ....-.- © S200 st cose ee ee eee Wolfville.
King’s; College sc2 <<. = tn See ee 2s Windsor.
(Canada mses enat~ soe eet Grammar! Schooltes--. .- 2-2 eee eee Niagara.
Maonetic Observatery.-....-.-5.----...- Toronto.
Wonnechicuteres=r---ee-ne- Wesleyan University 5. =... .--seeesseee-— Middletown.
Jt Se se sag Seoees ose Ihombard) Wniversity <<<. -5 seep eee aa Galesburg.
University of Chicaco..o.- -s-see eee Chicago.
LOWE) soobc actos cebebacesace Comell (Colleres. 3-2. «tse peeeeeee cone Mount Vernon.
Griswold College): —-- .. <j-seeaeeeeee =e Davenport.
Towa. State) University -.... eseee5. - 4 Iowa City.
MBING cescet sot ms epee Oak’ Grove ‘Seminary:: -|..2-seee ess === - Vassalboro’.
Mamyland seen <\cie!tessiees Washington Collere...-- sseeeeee ee ee = Chestertown.
Massachusetts ....... 32252. Amherst Colleges. -. 2 .2oaameeeeo= => == Amherst.
State Lunatic Hospital.......2--..------- Worcester.
Walliams; Collero, ~~... 2988. Seesee sone Williamstown:
Michigan) cei se eens State Agricultural College..........------ Lansing.
New Jersey. --'-s.'Coen bens Fréchold Instiiateso. .... ~<a = = =. Freehold.
New York... Panu snes Institution for Deaf and Dumb. ..-.------- New York.
Erasmus Hall Academy..-.....5--..----- Flatbush.

University of Rochester -

Rochester.

METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. 71

‘. :
Colleges, §c., from which meteorological registers were received, §c.—Continued.

le ae > ped eyeqases | Farmers’ College Be2, ARR US Pe tS ee College Hill.

| Haleyon Academy.-..-.--...-..-.-.---- Croton.
| | Otterbein Universities J. ..2222 5. Sos 2 2 Westerville.
| Wrbanat Universitgee---524-- 25522. 522-2 Urbana,
| Western Reserve Boles - S56 See eee | Hudson.
| Woodward EhohiSchoole---2.2--- Cincinnati.
Ch BuOi) -Seecsbigempedeecees Willamette University-------..-----. 2. Salem.
pennsylvania -.----- ----=: Central High School. -2.-2-2-2- --2..----- Philadelphia. |
iHlavertord @ollese=* pa emere sea =a] West Haverford.
Jefferson College -.-..---. -------------- | Cannonsburg.
Pinode island... .52 22052): NS TO Wa Ut Wons (hy = amen tee hoe ieee ins Providence.
MlenMenseos-o-- sse--- Shus 8 | Stewart College. .--.---.---.------..---- Clarksville.
Mermonti= . 2cjacncda seis 2 ' University of Vermont ..--.-.--..------- Burlington.
NWWISCONSIN: $22.) 22p$4b e248 Bploit} College: asso ia Seta poe tales otere Beloit.
| Wisconsin University ------------------- Madison.

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE REGULAR
OBSERVATIONS.

Abbott, Francis —Abstract of observations made at eight stations in 'as-
mania, or Van Dieman’s Land, during the six months ending June, 1862, for
the papers and proceedings of the Royal Society.

Caswell, Prof: A., D. D—Summary for the year 1863, and comparison with
the previous thirty-two years, at Providence, Rhode Island. Printed in the
Providence Daily Journal.

Dabney, William H—Temperature of the valley of Orotava, Island of Tene-
riffe, compared with that of London, Paris, Pan, Nice, Rome, and Madeira.
Extracted from the pamphlet of the Baron of Belcastel.

Dreutzer, O. E., (consul, Bergen, Norway.)—Summary of meteorological
observations for each month in the year 1863, kept at the hospital in Bergen.
The readings of the barometer reduced to inches, and the thermometer to Fah-
renheit scale, by Mr. Dreutzer.

Gardiner, R. H—Printed summary of observations during the year 1863,
at Gardiner,. Maine, and monthly mean temperature and amount of rain for a
period of tw enty-seven years, from 1837 to 1863, inclusive.

Goddard, C. W.—Daily observations at Constantinople, from October, 1862,
to September, 1863, inclusive. Also a summary for the year 1862.

Gregory, S. O—Diagram showing the changes of the wind every day in the
year 1863, at Theresa, New York.

Graham, Colonel James D.—Register of water-level and meteorological ob-
servations, made at the following places, under the direction of Captain George G.
Meade, topographical engineers, until August, 1863, and subsequently under the
direction of Colonel James D. Graham, corps of engineers, superintendent of
the survey :

Sackett’s Harbor, New York.—July, 1861. to December, 1863.

Charlotte, New York.—July, 1861, to December, 1863.

Fort Niagara, New York.—July, 1861, to December, 1863.

Buffalo, New York.—June, 1860, to December, 1863.

Cleveland, Ohio—June, 1860, to December, 1863.

Monroe, Michigan.—July, 1861, to December, 1863.

Detroit, Michigan.—January, 1860, to December, 1863.

Tawas City, Michigan.—July, 1861, to December, 1863.

Thunder Bay Island, Michigan.—July, 1861, to November, 1863.

Sugar Island, Michigan.—November, 1863, to December, 1863.

Grand Haven, Michigan.—July, 1861, to July, 1863.

Ontonagon, Michigan.—July, 1861, to December, 1863.

‘ Superior, Wisconsin.—June, 1861, to December, 1863.
4 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
> 9

- ,

Ives, William—Summary of observations at Buffalo, New York, during the
year 1863, newspaper slip.

Kirkpatrick, Professor James A.—A general abstract of the meteorological ob-
servations made at Philadelphia during the year 1863, and a comparison with
those of the last twelve years. Printed sheets from the Journal of the Franklin
Institute. ,

Lake Winnipisseogee Cotton and Woollen Manufacturing Company, New
Hampshire-—Amount of rain for each month in 1863, at the outlet of Lake
Winnipisseogee, in the town of Laconia, New Hampshire, and also at Lake
Village, about four miles south on the same stream of water.

Lapham, I. A., LL.D.—Table showing the direction and force of the wind for
each hour during the month of September, 1863, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
taken from the autographic record made by Burnell’s anemograph. Prepared
for the Commissioner of Agriculture by I. A. Lapham, LL.D.

Summary of observations at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, with a full set of instru-
ments, during the year 1863. (Printed slip from the Milwaukee Sentinel.)

Lewis, James, M. D—Hourly record of the temperature at Mohawk, New
York, during the year 1863, from the register made by his metallic self-recording
thermometer; also, monthly and half-monthly means, and hourly mean for the
whole year 1863.

Lippincott, James S—Meteorological observations made by Benjamin Shep-
herd near Greenwich, Cumberland, New Jersey, from March, 1856, to June,
1861. Tabulated and reduced by James 8. Lippincott, Haddonfield, Camden
county, New Jersey, for the Smithsonian Institution.

Logan, Thomas M., M. D—Monthly summaries of the meteorology and
necrology of Sacramento, California, reported for the Sacramento Daily Union
by Thomas M. Logan, M. D., secretary of the Board of Health.

Contribution to the Physics, Hygiene, and Thermology of the Sacramento
River, by Thomas M. Logan, M.D: From the Pacific Medical and Surgical
Journal. 8 pp. 8vo.

Magnetical Observatory, Toronto, Canada West, (Professor G. T. Kingston,
M. A., director.)—Mean meteorological results for the year 1862; also, a com-
parison of the same with a series of preceding years.

Mayhew, Royal—Mean temperature at Indianapolis, Indiana, for the hours
of sunrise, 7 a. m., 12 m., and 2,6, and 9 p. m., during each month in the years
1861, 1862, and 1863; also, the amount of rain in each month during the same
period.

Morris, Prof. Oran W.—Summary of observations for 1863, giving maxi-
mum, minimum, mean, and range of all the instruments for each month, as kept
at the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, New York.

Murdock, G—Appendix to Agricultural Report, being hints on meteorology,
with summaries of observations made at Saint John, New Brunswick, in the
years 1851 to 1862, inclusive, by G. Murdock, superintendent of water-works
at St. John. 8vo. 34 pages.

Nason, Rev. Elias.—Record of events in Exeter, New Hampshire, during
the year 1863, containing notices of the weather. No. 3, by the Rey. Elias
Nason. 12mo. 24 pages.

Ohio State Board of Agriculture —Fifteenth Annual Report of the board
to the general assembly of Ohio for the year 1860. Contains articles on the
influence of forests upon soil, climate, rain, and winds. P. 255 to 274.

Report for 1861. ‘The atmospheric conditions, showing the value of ba-
rometers for agricultural purposes,”’ by C. A. Richard, of Columbus, Ohio. P..
234 to 275.

Osservatorio del Collegio Romano.—Bulletino Meteorologico del’ Osservatorio
del Collegio Romano con corrispondenza e bibliografia per ’ avanzamento della
fisica terrestre. Published at Rome twice a month, beginning March, 1862.

METEOROLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. ta

a o

Paine, H. M., M. D—Summary of observations at Clinton, New York, for
1862 and 1863, with a full set of instruments, giving the monthly and annual
means, maxima, and minina.

Paterson, Rev. A. B—Meteorological notes for December, 1863, at St.
Paul, Minnesota, with a comparison with the previous four years. (Newspapcr.)

Riotte, C. N.—Printed summary of observations made at seven stations in
Costa Rica in the year 1863.

Sartorius, Charles—Summary for the year 1863, with full set of instru-
ments, at Mirador, Mexico.

Secchi, P. Angelo—Alcune richerche meteorogiche sulle tempeste occorse nel
1859-’60 memoria del P. Angelo Secchi. Estratta dagli Atti della accademi
de’ Nuovi Lincei Sessione III, dell’ Anno XIII, del 5 febbraro 1860. Rome.
1860. 28 pp. quarto.

State Department.—Statistical report on the weather and health of Frankfort-
on-the-Main during the year 1863, by William W. Murphy, consul.

Vaughan, Captain D.—Meteorological Journal and Report relative to the cur-
rents, climate, and navigation of that. portion of the lower St. Lawrence forming
the Strait of Belle-Isle. Second edition. Compiled by Captain D. Vaughan,
Quebec. Svo. 62 pp.

Whitehead, W. A—Summary of observations during the year 1863 at
Newark, New Jersey. Printed slip from Newark Daily Advertiser. Also, an
article on the “ Climate of Newark,” being an examination and comparison of
the observations made there during the last twenty years.

Wislizenus, A., M. D—Monthly and yearly mean of positive atmospheric
’ electricity, of temperature, and of relative humidity, in 1861, 1862, and 1863,
at St. Louis, Missouri, based upon daily observations at 6, 9, 12, 3, 6, and
9 o’clock. Published in the St. Louis Medical and ere Journal. Vol. I,
No.4. -
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee respectfully submit to the Board of Regents the
following report of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution
during the year 1863, with estimates for the year 1864:

General Statement.

RECEIPTS.

The whole amount of the Smithson bequest deposited in the

treasury of the United States is $515,169, from which an

annual income at 6 per cent. is derived of ..........-....-- $30,910 14
‘The extra fund of unexpended income is invested as follows, viz:
In $75,000 Indiana 5 per cent. bonds, yielding (less United States

GA) wre ermal niate.= « Rieti DRUAS Pe ee ane LC ees Sarna derail 3,749 50
In $53,500 Virginia 6 per cent. bonds.
In $12,000 Tennessee 6 per cent. bonds.
In $500 Georgia 6 per cent. bonds.

In $100 Washington city 6 per bonds, yielding............-.- 6 00
SP OL AMIN CONG :2r's.02S = re ye nae RL ais Re ee eee 34,665 64
Balance in the hands of the treasurer, senuary, 1863.4. toscce 29,509 61
otal receipts: <2. 3e ake SREP oct BE ASe ey ne ae 64,175 25
EXPENDITURES.
For building, furniture, and fixtures............. cr tage DDL See
Hon General Cxpensesec ac je. Sed wecenes setae 11,688 69
For publications, researches, and lectures .....--. 10, 761 65
For library, museum, and Gallery Ob artis. 2 co. 19259.238
ey letepey lh) G15)
Balance in the hands of the treasurer, January, 1864...-. 32, 353 90

STATEMENT IN DETAIL OF THE EXPENDITURES OF 1863.

Buudine incidentals:: . 2s... 6.2. 855. oe $1, 598 '79
eraronpore and fXTULES. ee. wen 2 oc 8 elec cae! os ee ol2 99
—— $2,111 78
Meetings of the Board of Regents................ 104 50
SURI ene ese te es cafe OS » 343 71
Bs RS 1,2, 2 Se a A 1,090 75
BOSS beeen ak eshte tke cd oo ee 421 46
Pransportaugn, weeneral ok ws Saale, cass eee 374 05
inChan OCs sere ee ena ak Ce ce ee 1,357 76

PAALONCRY |. aye meee acter ase te ee 486 09

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 75

erercneral pringme.... 000222200 2G ee ee $3 50.
MMC ar sts we se _ ere 531 98
EE ea ea oo ae ee Eg o's wad 129 59
ME CTT noo aia o's: 3 oe ya 4 584 65.
Mere CleLE hire: ff. c'8)0 0. Es. ui eee ee. 311 65
SRUMIPESRCCECHADY «3 0 on ws ce eee CS 3,500 00
Salaries, chief clerk, bookkeeper, laborers, &c..- - - 2,389 00

$11, 688 69
Prnibnsonian. Contributions - ...-.-2<s-4-<s06--65- 2,545 48
memeiitiah reports’. «2-22 L272 bse eal ia. 583 85
Smithsonian miscellaneous collections ............ 3,535 88
Smithsonian and other publications..........-.-. 441 15
MER ORONO S50) cat Selim idee smoke 545 2,410 97
Researches and investigations. ...........-.-.--. 150 00
SOL TAR 8 le OE ae Se Rp ai 1094) 32

——_——_ 10, 761 65
Woon of books and binding: j..0 5 21).6220 0a. 28.8 1,844 65
Pay cesses mw library? 2s iy. 0 og eee 2. 1,100 00
@rameperiidon tor library ...........-2 4.sWeve ee 290 35
Puessemiais tor hbravy . 2 So 2ess ee eee 24 15
Museum, salary of assistant secretary .......---.-- 2,000 00
Transportation forsmusemmn’. ii: fs... ee 695 29
Peemicniais fOr MUSCUM ).< ...%.. (2. -a-~ 2./-. See 395 40
Pemloraiions tor museum’. .6..-.......5-...-.-- 762 39
Beerwiearty. 2 Ione dk ewe 147 00

—_——-_ 7, 259 28

$31, 821 35

The whole income during the year 1863 was $34,665 64, corresponding with
the estimate in the report for 1862. The expenditures during the year 1863
were $31,821 31, leaving $2,844 33 to be added to the balance in the hands of
the treasurer at the beginning of the year.

The amount of bills outstanding will not exceed $2,000.

The foregoing statement is an actual exhibit of the Smithsonian funds irre-
spective of credits and payments made in behalf of other parties. 'The Institu-
tion has during the year paid several bills for work done and articles purchased
on account of the government, part of which has been refunded and credited to
the appropriation from which the expenditure was originally made. Those
which have been refunded are as follows: $476 87 from the Surgeon General’s
office for books purchased in Europe through the agency of the Institution ;
and $37 from the Naval Observatory for transportation. In addition to these,
several expenditures have been made on account of the Light-house Board for
photometrical apparatus, and experiments in the laboratory, which have not yet
been refunded.

Messrs. Rice & Kendall, of Boston, have also refunded $93 80 for paper pur-
chased of them remaining in their hands not used.

‘Vhe appropriations from Congress for the preservation of the collections and
the distribution of the duplicate specimens of the exploring and surveying
expeditions of the government have been expended, as heretofore, under the
direction of the Secretary of the Interior in assisting to pay the expenses of
assistants in the museum, and the cost of arranging, labelling, and preserving
ihe specimens. The sums thus received have been credited to the museum, and
have served to diminish the apparent amount of expenditures for that object.
. a
76

»
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Ps The estimated expenditures for 1863 were as follows: %

»For building, furniture, and fixtures Ee eee tn eee eee a ae $2, 000
Bor seneral- cxpenpes. << > - 20. > ms nt oe ene ea eae ae 10, 500
For publications, researches,-and lectures .........--...-.-+.---- 10, 500
For library, museum, end wallery of ati. -22 2c acces Ae ee eee ee ee 9, 000

MPOtR Es 6 Ss ee ee Se ee Cee ee eee $32, 000

The actual expenditure on the building is very nearly the same as the amount
appropriated.

For general expenses the amount is larger than the estimate, and this is due
to the increased cost of materials.

For publications, &c., the actual expenditure is nearly the same as the
estimate.

For library, museum, and gallery of art, the expenditure is nearly three
thousand dollars less than the estimate, but this is on account of the expend-
iture on the collections of the remainder of an appropriation from Congress for
the distribution of the specimens.

For the year 1864 the same estimates are recommended as those made for 1863.

The committee have examined the books and accounts of the Institution for
the past year, and find them to be correct.

Respectfully submitted.

A. D. BACHE,
RICHARD WALLACH,

Committee.

i. , 4 :
a ° «4
: - JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
Pa. BOARD OR REGU Nees

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, January 20, 1864.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual session on the third
Wednesday of January of each year, the Board met this day in the Regents’
room, at 104 o’clock a. m. Present: Hon. 8. 8. Cox, Hon. J. W. Patterson
Hon. R. Wallach, General J. G. Totten, and Professor Henry, the Secretary.

A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Monday, January
25, at 73 p- m.

Monpay, January 25, i864.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 74 o’clock p.m
Present: Hon. H. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States, Hon. W. P.
Fessenden, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. J. W. Patterson, Hon. H. W. Davis, Hon.
Rt. Wallach, Mr. William B. Astor, General Joseph G. Totten, Professor A. D.
Bache, the treasurer Mr. Seaton, and Professor Henry, the Secretary.

In the absence of the chancellor, Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair.

The Secretary announced the election, by joint resolution of the Senate and
House of Representatives, of Professor Agassiz, of Massachusetts, as a Regent
in place of Mr. Badger, the reappointment by the Speaker of Hon. S. 8. Cox,
of Ohio, and the appointment of Hon. J. W. Patterson, of New Hampshire,
and Hon. Henry Winter Davis, of Maryland, as Regents from the House of
Representatives.

The general statement of the funds of the Institution and of the receipts and
expenditures during 1863 was presented by the treasurer.

The Secretary submitted the annual report of the operations of the Institu-
tion during the past year, which was read in part.

The Secretary made a statement as to the policy which had been adopted in
regard to bequests and donations having special conditions attached to them,

*
78 ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

and gave the reasons for declining to accept a herbarium which had recently
been bequeathed to the Institution.
~ On motion it was :

Resolved, That the action of the Secretary in this case be approved.. ~

The Secretary called attention to the unexpected delays and embarrassments
which had oceurred in obtaining the remainder of the original bequest of
Smithson left in England as the principal of an annuity to the mother of the
nephew of Smithson, and read the correspondence on the subject with the
attorneys, and also a letter from Hon. C. F. Adams, the American minister to
England.

On motion it was

Resolved, That a committee be appointed, consisting of. the Secretary, Mr.
H. W. Davis, and Professor Bache, to confer with the Secretary of State and
the British minister relative to the action of the English authorities in regard
to the money due the Smithsonian Institution.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, January 27, at 74
o’clock p. m.

WEDNESDAY, January 27, 1864.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at the Institution at 74 o’clock
p-m. Present: Hon. H. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States, Hon.
G. Davis, Hon. R. Wallach, Mr. William B. Astor, Professor A. D. Bache, and
the Secretary.

Mr.’Hamlin was called to the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Professor Bache presented the report of the executive committee, which was
read and approved.

The Secretary presented the remainder of his annual report, which was read
and adopted.

He also presented a series of letters illustrating the correspondence and
operations of the Institution.*

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.

Turspay, March 15, 1864.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day at 104 o’clock a. m.
Present: Hon. H. Hamlin, Vice-President of the United States, Hon. S. S.
Cox, Hon. J. W. Patterson, Hon. R. Wallach, Professor L. Agassiz, Professor
A. B. Bache, and the Secretary.

Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary presented a series of works on natural history, which had
been prepared and printed at the expense of the Institution, and also the

* See end of the Proceedings, page 80.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 79

manuscripts of several others which had been offered for publication. All of
these, he stated, had been referred for critical examination to Professor Agassiz,
who would favor the Board with some remarks in regard to them.

Professor Agassiz stated that, so far as he had had an opportunity of
examining the original papers, he considered them worthy of publication; that
he would give the whole series of works on natural history, which constitute
portions of what is called the Miscellaneous Collections, a critical examination,
and present a report upon them at a future time. At present he would beg
leave to make a few remarks on the importance of adopting measures for in-
creasing the efficiency of the active operations of the Institution by relieving
them of the expense of the support of the museum, library, and gallery of art.
Unless this could be done, many valuable contributions to science offered for
publication would have to be postponed or refused. He thought that the
resources of the Institution were inadequate to carry on at the same time its
active operations, and maintain a museum, a library, and a gallery of art upon
the only footing upon which they can truly be creditably supported. Without,
therefore, making a definite motion, he would submit for future consideration
the propriety of asking the government to take charge of the museum, the
library, and the building now occupied by the Institution, with a view of main-
taining them on a more extensive scale, and relieving the Smithsonian Institu-
tion of a large expenditure which, for the advancement and diifusion of science,
had better hereafter be devoted to the active operations of the Institution. He
hoped that if such a plan would be carried out, the resources reverting to the
Institution from the transfer of the museum and library to the government,
either to form an independent organization or to be carried on hereafter as
before by the Smithsonian Institution, the active operations of the latter would
be greatly extended.

The Secretary stated that the suggestions of Professor Agassiz were in
accordance with the views which had been entertained by the majority of the
Board of Regents from the first discussion of the organization of the Institu-
tion; that the present disposition of the funds was a necessity which was im-
posed upon the directors by the requirements of the law of Congress establish-
ing the Institution, and that he had always entertained the hope that the sup-
port of the building and collections would in due time be provided for by the
general government, and a national museum be founded which would be com-
mensurate with the intelligence, extent, and resources of the country.

Professor Bache fully concurred in these remarks, and moved the following
resolutions, which were adopted :

Resolved, 'That a committee be appointed to report to the Board of Regents
any suggestions for extending the active operations of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and for the separate maintenance of the collections.

Resolved, That this committee consist of Professor Agassiz, the Secretary
of the Institution, Mr. Fessenden, Mr. Patterson, and Mr. Cox.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
‘ :
80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

LETTERS PRESENTED TO THE BOARD OF REGENTS TO ILLUSTRATE THE
CORRESPONDENCE AND OPERATIONS OF THE INSTITUTION.

Communication from Dr. B. A. Gould, on a new discussion and reduction of the
observations of Piazzi of Palermo.

CamsBrinGe, May 16, 1863.

My Dear Sir: For many years I have been strongly convinced that an
extremely valuable contribution to astronomical science might be made by a
new discussion and reduction of the observations of Piazzi at Palermo.

This eminent astronomer, with his assistants, was engaged, during the twenty-
two years from 1792 to 1813, in observing the positions of the principal fixed
stars. He was provided with the best instruments which could be obtained at
that time, and his observations have been, and must continue to be, our prin-
cipal and most trustworthy source of information as to the places of between
seven and eight thousand fixed stars at the beginning of the present century.
As nearly as I can estimate without an actual count, he must have made about
ninety thousand determinations of right ascension, and from sixty to seventy
thousand of declination, the original records of which observations still exist.
From these he censtructed his two well-known catalogues—the first in 1803,
the second in 1814—containing the mean places for 1800.0 of 7,646 stars.

His methods of observation, while, of course, far inferior in many respects to
those of the present day, were the best in use at that period; and the care and
fidelity with which they were used seem to have been unsurpassed ; and, al-
though the reductions upon which the catalogue was based seem to have been
incommensurate in precision with the observations themselves, still this cata-
logue has, for the past fifty years, been a standard authority with astronomers,
and, fora great part.of that time, their chief dependence for both the right
ascensions and declinations of stars.

The original observations of Piazzi were sent by him for safe keeping to his
friend Oriani, in Milan, and have been carefully preserved at the Observatory
of the Brera in that city. In 1845, Professor Littrou, the director of the Impe-
rial Observatory of Vienna, incited specially, as he says, by Argelander, and
encouraged by Bessel, Gauss, Schumacher, Struve, &c., commenced the printing
of these original observations as part of the series of Annals of the Vienna
Observatory, and they have thus been for several years accessible to astronomers.

When organizing the Dudley Observatory in 1856-58, it formed an integral
part of my plan, not merely to institute new observations of the heavenly bodies,
but to carry on such computations, reductions, &c., as might render available
past observations of this and the last century, which would otherwise be either
useless or of inferior value to astronomy. Various undertakings of this kind
were planned, but the first of all to be begun was the re-reduction of the whole
series of Piazzi’s observations, using the best values of the constants of pre-
cession, aberration, and mutation, and investigating all the instrumental errors
with care; and I made considerable progress in arranging the details of the
computation. After communication with Professor Littrou, and an extended
correspondence with Professor Argelander on the subject, in which this distin-
guished astronomer gave me many very useful suggestions, the whole plan was
completed, and, but for the misfortunes which interfered with the usefulness
of the Dudley Observatory before its activity had fairly begun, the new cata-
logue would doubtless now have been in the hands of astronomers.

My health and opportunities of labor being now greatly improved, I am
anxious to resume this work, and write to ask for your influence and aid, as far
as possible, in furtherance of the plan. Knowing, as you do, the nature of the

’
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 81

work proposed, it is almost needless to dwell upon its value to science. The
one consideration, that Piazzi’s observations must, for long years to come, fur-
nish the only means of determining the proper motions of more than five
thousand stars, is of itself sufficient. For the other stars observed by him,
they constitute a most important element in the determination. The huge
number of stars, observed in zones by Lalande, at almost the same period—more
than fifty thousand—depend for their reduction and value almost solely upon
Piazzi’s results; and the formation of a new catalogue of the latter will give an
altogether new value to the results of Lalande. The great mass of independent
observations thus rendered more accurate can speak for themselves, and it is
manifest that their usefulness will be far greater than that of the same number
of new observations made now.

Unfortunately, Piazzi’s observations do not afford all the elements now
known to be needed for their reduction, and it will doubtless be necessary to
reduce them differentially, thus greatly increasing the labor. Not merely ques-
tions ‘of azimuth, zenith point, and clock correction, but also questions of
graduation, of irregularity of pivots, and even of refraction, must be discussed,
thus rendering the undertaking one of no small magnitude ; still it would, I am
sure, be labor well bestowed, and, as Professor Argelander wrote me in 1857,
“it would be a grand thing, * * * * and one of the most important
things that could be done.”

The first process required is the reduction to the mean equinox of 1800.0 of
all the observations just as they were given by Piazzi. This is a work which
could be carried on by ordinary computers, and would in itself be of great service,
even were the discussions of the observations to be omitted. It would consti-
tute nearly two-thirds of all the labor, and possesses the great advantage that
whatever is done, be the amount large or small, is immediately available. 'The
best estimate that I am able to make gives about $5,000 as the probable cost
of this reduction, to which from one-quarter to one-third should be added for
the expense of checking, comparing, and correcting mistakes. Therefore, be-
fore beginning, I desire to make sure that at least $6,000 will be available for
the purpose. There is scarcely a limit to the number of computers who could
be employed at once upon this part of the work. It might easily be accom-
plished in a single year, or it might be slowly and regularly carried on for a
long time, the expense being not very different in the two cases.

This process being completed, the remainder of the work, consisting of various
investigations, in addition to the discussion of the instrumental corrections, and
the formation of a catalogue from the observations after all reductions have been
applied, would, of course, require more deliberate study. Ft would probably
occupy at least two years, but I think the expense would be decidedly inferior
to that of the first process. Indeed, I have convinced myself that all the out-
lays needed for the whole undertaking in all its branches would not exceed
$10,000, and that if this sum were now available, the work might be completed
in two years, inasmuch as parts of all the processes could go on simultaneously.

My sense of the usefulness of this work, and my conviction that astronomers
everywhere would agree in this opinion, are so strong that I have determined
to appeal to you for aid, well knowing that your interest and moral support
will, under any circumstances, not be wanting. It is precisely such an under-
taking as the plan of the Smithsonian Institution would lead it to encourage ;
and although I can readily see that the amount needed is larger than the Smith-
sonian would probably be able to apply at any one time to the furtherance of
any oue science, still I come to you with my plan, well assured that you will
willingly do what you can in its behalf, whether by some gradual appropriation
year after year, from the Smithsonian funds, in aid of what I have called the
first process, viz.: The computation of the correction to the mean equinox of

68
82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

1800.0, or in some still more active way, by enlisting interest and securing aid
from other sources.

For several months past I have devoted such time and means as I could to
the preliminary steps, and, as you are aware, I now desire only the means of
defraying the indispensable outlays, wishing to contribute my own services in
behalf of the work. ; a ee

I am, dear sir, very respectfully and truly yours,
ie a ni B. A. GOULD.
Professor JosppH Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Project of an outline history of public education in the United States, by
Frederic A. Packard.

The proposed volume, to contain from 600 to 800 pages royal 8vo, to be
put up in a cheap form, in the manner of legislative documents, with ample
tables, indexes, &c., for easy reference. If it shall be thought best, the form
might be changed to two volumes—one embracing the original thirteen States,
and the other the remaining States and Territories. The plan of the work
would comprise the following topics : : ‘

I. Of universal education, considered as an essential element of free political
institutions, what should be its character and extent ?

Il. An historical sketch of the laws of the several States on the subject of
education, and the establishment of public schools, academies, and colleges. In
this connexion would be given the provisions for education under the colonial
government, and their influence on succeeding legislation.

III. An abstract or synopsis of all laws now in force in the several States
touching public education, and of contemporaneous judicial expositions of the
law, so far as they affect the essential principles of the system.

IV. A sketch of the present state of public education in the country :

(a.) Of the division of territory for school purposes, what and how made ?

(®.) Of the manner of raising money for the support of schools, and the
amount raised and expended in each decade of years, of the present century.

(c.) Of the permanent revenue for the support of schools—if derived from
a fund—when and how was such fund created, and what is its amount and in-
vestment ? what portion of the annual school expense is derived from it, and
what is its effect to stimulate or depress the working of the system ?

(d.) Of the number and average age of children under instruction, distin-
guishing the sex; the number in attendance, in proportion to the whole popu-
lation, and the average time of attendance.

(e.) Of the mode of employing teachers and determining their qualifications.

(f.) Of the number of teachers employed, distinguishing the sex ; the compen-
sation allowed; the average age of teachers, male and female separate ; and the
average amount of time employed in daily teaching, making distinct heads
of summer and winter schools.

(g.) Of the branches taught in the public schools, and the proportion of time
devoted to each.

(h.) Of the preparation and introduction of school-books ; character of them
in early schools—improvements in them; expense of them, and by whom borne ;
and the number and variety of them, in the different branches, which are in
use in the different schools.

V. Of normal schools, number, when organized, how supported, number of
pupils, terms and condition of admission; what proportion of pupils pursue
teaching for a livelihood, and what proportion of these succeed.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 83

VI. Of school-houses, their number, average capacity, manner and means of
building, and improvements in respect to site, ventilation, heating, furniture,
out-houses, &c., &e.

VII. Of school librarces, number of schools supplied with ; how and by whom
selected ; funds to purchase, and the amount and source of the same; number
and character of volumes ; cost, mode of distributing, preserving, and extent of
circulation.

VIII. Of the religious element in public schools; if less than formerly,
why? To what extent necessary and practicable ?

1X. Of popular manners and customs in the schools ; habits of thinking and
acting; domestic and social character, and qualifications for citizenship, as they
are influenced by our systems of public education.

X. Of physical education, what time appropriated to it; what facilities and
encouragements are afforded; what methods adopted, as drill, gymnasium, or
athletic games ; and what part teachers take therein.

XI. Of infant schools.

XII. Of Sunday schools.

XIII. Of colleges and other public literary institutions, so far as they afford
aid to, or receive aid from, the public schools.

XIV. Of the comparative expense and value of public education at different
periods of our history.

XV. Of lyceums, mechanics’ institutes, evening schools, and other methods of
adult education, to make other means of ,education available, or to compensate
for the want or neglect of early advantages.

XVI. Number of persons of school age that are under instruction, the pro-
portion of the population that can both read and write; the qualifications of
the pupils, upon leaving school, to engage in the active pursuits of life, with a
superior physical, moral, and intellectual character.

The materials being thus collected, would be arranged under the title of éagh
State, respectively, whatever is peculiar in its educational history and statisties
pene placed under specific heads, and what is common to all under general
heads.

For example, Maine might occupy the first chapter or section of the volume—
and we should first refer to Massachusetts for all matter preceding 1820, when
it ceased to be a province. Then would come a succinct account of all legisla-
tion on the subject, including an abstract of existing laws; then the origin,
amount, and mode of distributing any school fund. Next, a bird’s-eye view of
the actual condition of the schools, government, discipline, construction of
buildings, character of teachers, text-books, and the obvious fruits of the sys-
tem. Whatever peculiarity there may be in the climate, in the habits and
pursuits of the people, or in the condition of society, affecting favorably or
otherwise the interests of education, would find a place in a.

After completing the circle of States in this way, a condensed chronological,
historical, and statistical survey of the entire country would be in place, and
eee nciplcs or conclusions as are established by the facts stated and illus-
trated.

It will be observed that the plan contemplates the history of each State
complete in itself, and if prepared by an individual selected for the purpose,
might bear the author’s name, like contributions to a biographical dictionary or
an encyclopedia. Of course it would serve a valuable Joca/l purpose, and if
properly prepared, would secure a share of public patronage, while the whole
volume would furnish highly interesting and important information to the
country at large and to foreign inquirers.

When the outline thus sketched is well digested and matured, my purpose
would be to forward a schedule of the subjects to some qualified patriotic person
in each State, requesting his co-operation. The great advantages of having the
84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

4
work done by a resident of the States, respectively, are the accuracy, fidelity,
and fulness which would be secured, the facilities for obtaining materials, and
the authority which it would bear. These considerations might induce one or
more suitable persons in each State to encounter some personal inconvenience,
especially as the service is one of vast and permanent importance, and can be
better done now than at any future period. .

The President of the Chamber of Commerce of Bordeaux to the Secretary of

the Smithsonian Institution at Washington:

Sir: I am not ignorant that the Institution of which you are the Secretary,
and which labors with the most praiseworthy zeal to promote the progress of
the different branches of human knowledge, maintains relations of exchange
with the Imperial Academy of Sciences, Belles Lettres, and Arts of Bordeaux.

The Chamber of Commerce, anxious in its turn to co-operate, as far as pos-
sible, in the realization of the plans which you pursue, feels pleasure in trans-
mitting to you a copy of its publications. They comprise a collection of its
proceedings since 1850, the first volume of the catalogue of its library, &c. It
is hoped that these various publications will find a place in your collections.
The Chamber has, on its own part, founded a considerable library, which is
open to the public, and it would be happy if the Smithsonian Institution should
think proper to send us some of the volumes which it publishes, and which are
filled with documents of the greatest interest on America, and on different ques-
tions of importance. These works would thus be at the disposal of a consid-
erable number of studious persons, and they would contribute to make the
seryices of the Institution of which you are the organ appreciated in all their
extent in Europe. Be pleased, sir, to accept the assurance of my most dis-
tinguished consideration.

CARTE DEL Paxasio, MILAN,
October 31, 1862.

Sir: Through the kindness of your agent, Mr. Bossange, of Paris, we have
received the Annual Report of the Board of Regents, presented by the great
and liberal Smithsonian Institution to the Carte del Palasio’s Agricultural As-
sociation, of which we are directors and regents. Reading your valuable re-
port, we have seen with the greatest satisfaction that the interesting and useful
results of yourjabors have been approved and commended by intelligent men
everywhere. hilst expressing, honored sir, our warmest thanks for having
been deemed worthy by your Institution to participate in the gifts which the
liberality of the Smithsonian Institution renders to men devoted to science, it
will be a source of pleasure to us to endeavor to reciprocate your kindness.
To promote knowledge and facilitate its progress by stimulating men of science
to undertake general and extensive researches, and to offer the means of con-
tinuing them, is the most useful service which can be rendered to mankind.
The very extensive means which your great Institution has at its command,
the ardor with which your officers and regents began and continue their difficult
work, are infallible indications of the greatest results which will be produced.
And we do not doubt that the material and moral progress of individuals, with that
of science in general, will fully realize the anticipations of the founder, and
amply recompense the continued labors of the distinguished directors of the
Smithsonian Institution,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 85

As directors of a new institution, which we hope will also soon produce im-
portant results in agriculture, we shall be content if, in reciprocating your
kindness, we can also in any way serve the laudable purposes of your Institu-
tion by presenting the results of our own labors and researches.

Again expressing our thanks, we have the pleasure of sending some of the
publications relating to our institution, with the hope that they will be placed
in the Smithsonian library. They are the following: 1. Programme of organi-
zation of the Carte del Palasio’s Agricultural Association. 2. Annual Reports
of the Association for 1859-61. 3. Agricultural Annals, by Dr. Gaetano Can-
toni, professor of agronomy.

* * * * * * % #
Your most obedient servants,
Sta. ANTONIO RESCHIN, Direttore.
Dr. GAETANO CANTONI, Professor.

* OrFice’Sur’t U.S. Minirary GENERAL HospIvats,
Memphis, Tennessee, September 5, 1863.

My Dear Sir: I am in receipt of your letter of the 25th ultimo, by which
I learn the pleasing intelligence that the “ great Tucson meteorite” is in a fair
way of getting to Washington at last. 1 amsure you will feel proud of it when
you see it. J knew the “Carlton specimen” was not ours, as I had‘ sent it to
Hermosilla before I left Arizona. ‘That sent in by General C. is about 750
pounds, while ours is about twice that weight.

The only history I can give you is a vague one, as there is no written record
of its advent in Tucson. The old inhabitants of that place all agree that it
was brought there from the Santa Catarina mountains, which lie to the north
of Tucson, about midway between the Rio San Pedro and that town. li was
brought in by the military stationed at the old preszdio, where it remained until
after the withdrawal of the Spanish garrison. It was then taken into town,
set up on end, and used as a kind of public anvil for the use of the inhabitants.
The smaller one was used in a blacksmith’s forge for similar purposes. In
1857 I found-the large one lying in one of the by-streets half buried in the earth,
having evidently been there a considerable time. No person claimed it, so I
publicly announced that I would take possession of it in behalf of the Smith-
sonian, and forward it whenever an opportunity offered. Mr. Palatine Robinson,
near whose house the iron‘was, assisted me in getting it sent to Hermosilla.
There was some expense attending its hoisting into the truck-wagon that took
it down to Sonora, which I paid to Mr. R. Mr. Ainsa agreed to take it, or
have it taken, to Guaymas, Sonora, for fifty dollars. |

The people of Tucson all agree that a shower of these meteorites fell in the
Santa Catarina mountains some two hundred years ago, and I have been told
that there were plenty of them remaining in the mountains. I never was in
the immediate portion of the mountain range where they report the specimens
are to be found, so I cannot vouch for the correctness of their reports. As the
country is volcanic almost entirely, I have often thought, from the fact that
iron ore is abundant in several of these mountains, that it might have been that
masses of iron mineral were reduced to the metallic state by voleanic heat. See
in the case of the famous ‘“Planchas de plata” silver mines, some one hundred
miles south of the Santa Catarina, where large pieces of pure silver have been
found reduced to the pure state by fire, which has left everything in its vicinity
in a state of calcination. One piece weighing 1,500 pounds was found and cut
in two to allow its removal to the city of Mexico by the Spanish authorities.
I think you will find allusion to those interesting and once rich mines in Brantz

Mayer.
:
86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

T believe I have given you some data about the Tucson meteorites in a
monogram published by the War Department in 1860; Medical Statistics of
United States Army, 1855-60.

I wish I could give you full information on this matter. Please let me know
when you receive it, and be assured that when I go to Washington I will pay
my respects in person to you and it.

I am very busy, so you will excuse this hurried letter, and believe me

Yours, very respectfully,
B. J. D. IRWIN,
Surgeon United States Army.

SAN Francisco, Cau., July 2, 1863.

Dear Sir: The aerolite which had remained so long at Alamito, for want
of a proper person to bring it here, was brought by one of my brothers, Jesus
M. Ainsa, who visited Sonora lately. We have been induced to retain it here
for a short time, to satisfy the curiosity of the San Francisco people. The
State Geological Society asked to be allowed to have a small piece for their
collection, which request was, of course, granted. With this exception the
aerolite has been preserved entirely in the same condition in wmpich it was found
in Arizona, and by the 13th of this month we will have the pleasure to ship it
to New York, under the care of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company.

I take this opportunity to offer my services to the Institution.

I remain, respectfully,
SANTIAGO AINSA.
Professor Henry, \
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

San Francisco, Oa, August 26, 1863.

Dear Sir: I have the pleasure to acknowledge your favor of July 31, and
I take pleasure in complying with your request. In fact I intended to do this
before, but, owing to many engagements on hand, I have been postponing it to
this moment. ,

T announced in my last that the meteorite would be sent by the following
steamer from that date; but we were asked to retain it some time longer by
some scientific men, who wished to examine it closely.

The history of this aerolite we have from our grandmother, Dofia Ana Anza

de Islas, daughter of Don Juan Bautista Anza, our great grandfather. The |

Jesuit missionaries had the earliest knowledge of this curiosity. ‘There were
various theories entertained about it; but it was generally believed to proceed
from some iron mine in the vicinity, which belief holds to this day in Sonora.
In an expedition made by Don Juan Bautista Anza, then “Gran Capitan de
las Provincias del Occidente,” about the year 1735, to the country about
Tucson, he was induced to visit the aerolite, and he undertook the work of
transporting it to Spain. The place where it was found is called “Sierra de
la, Madera,” on a spot called Los Muchadios. Through the want of proper
means and the bad state of the roads, (having to carry it to San Blas, then the
uearest port of entry,) the work of transportation was given up, and they were
satisfied to take it as far as Tucson. ‘There it remained ever since, until my
brother, Agustine Ainsa, undertook to transport it, in 1860, and present it to the
Institute. His intentions, however, were never carried out ‘antil May last,

Riser aire ee Dc A i =
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS, 87

when another of my brothers, Jesus M. Ainsa, visited Sonora and brought it
with him on his return.

By the time of the receipt of this the aerolite must be already in Washington,
as we delivered it to the agent of the Institute about a month ago, to have it
transported to you. Your agent spoke to us about expenses ; but we wish not
to deprive ourselves of the honor of having presented it to the Institute, and
as such we desire that you should accept it.

I would be thankful if you would send me a copy of the analysis, and of other
informat*on about the aerolite; and if you find it not too troublesome, to send
the same, with my compliments, to St. J obs s College, Fordham, New York,
where I was educated.

I have the honor to remain, your obedient servant,
SANTIAGO AINSA.

JosePH Henry, Esq.,

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

[This meteorite is now in the museum, and is an object of special interest to
visitors. ]

LirTLeE GuLAcE Bay, Care Breton, Nova Scotia,
* October 25, 1868.

My Dear Sir: I send you a specimen of “cone-in-cone,” which I have
lately obtained in sinking a shaft at this place upon the Harbor Vein seam of
coal described in Professor Lesley’s report of this coal-field last year.

It was found in the band that corresponds to the black bituminous shales
below the one inch of cannel coal, and 23 feet above the Harbor series of five
feet of coal.

It was only obtained on the northwest side of the shaft, thinning out to the
south and east, or towards the “crop.” The greatest thickness of the bed was
about 7 inches. The largest “cone-in-cone’’ was 54 inches in diameter.

The journal of the strata sunk through differs somewhat from Professor
Lesley’s taken at the shore.

ft. in.
uesne dett-drift and ipravel 02) s22s2e. See See ee ee ee 10.0
Blue shales, with cyclas shells, fish teeth, and other remains........ 3.0
Cone-in-cone ci cloke id Sctet eee e eo ee LaPeer Ce uate eet tL ad oneaere a)
Brown band, with coprolites.........---..... LUE So Oks one 3
Blue arenaceous shales ......- Beebe tet foot deci) age i es 1.0
REIL HAT BUOTC « < Sain aie ek wa aie o's eS sleek Ot IE 2.0
Sam punus ot shales “fucode i227 sek 2 ee Pe oo. ee ee 32
DUE TEATS 34. 22. A RS Pe OU Mae SL OAR, a A
mmenreenacontun/ shales 239 ossicles aed sak CRU AOE OSI VEL on 2.6
Sandstone, black mark, like the fruit “‘cardeocarpon”’........---.--- 1.04
NEEM > [2212 2). nice eS dS UN ee oe a ISS ic a ad
DER ICOG), 2). 2s Glee ie. 28 IEE Ate ee CR UCUE RE Suicke 3.10
EIRENE 2 os: id wc) as Sk he Re ee PI cok Css 4
maesnd ironstone: ballse soos! 02 “Asan = 4 ois Sees. 7.6
Oo. oS es): ee a Ae os cers rea ae 5.5
41.11

I cannot find in any work that I possess anything exactly like them, so
think they may be of interest to add to your museum.
The points of the cones are downwards.
?
88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. .

T shall be glad to hear from you about them after they have been examined.
I have sent a specimen to Dr, Dawson, Montreal, but fear the season is too
late for him to get it this year.
I remain, my dear sir, your obedient servant,
HENRY POOLE.
JosEPH Henry,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

The above relates to a very interesting specimen of a remarkable concretion
of a clayey material, which occurs in thin slabs, entirely formed of cones, the
axes of which are all at right angles to the parallel surfaces of the slabs. The
only explanation which occurs to us of the mode of formation of this structure
is that of percolation of water charged with earthy material through a porous
rock, and filling a horizontal crevice with parallel sides, with a series of stalac-
tites and stalagmites. Ji. aa.

HUNGARIAN NATIONAL Museum,
Pesth, October 15, 18638.

Sir: In reply to your esteemed letter of the 29th of May, I have the honor
to inform you that the birds sent us through Dr. Flugel have been duly re-
ceived, and I beg leave to return the Heaney thanks oF our institution for the
same. Full acknowledgments have also been made in our reports, and in the
newspapers, of our obligations to the-Smithsonian Institution, which stands so
high in public opinion everywhere.

AUGUST V. KUBINYI, Director.

JosePpH Henry, Esq.,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

CuristTiaANa, Norway, November 4, 1863.

Sir: Having been appointed director of the Ethnological Museum at the
University of Christiana, I have perused a letter of the “6th May, 1862, from
the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the secretary of this university.

As this letter alludes to the endeavors of your excellent Institution for the
collection of ethnological objects from North America, and the utility of estab-
lishing a system of exchange for European curiosities, I have made use of the
opportunity to offer you what we have in this line.

The aboriginal population of this country are the Laps or Laplanders, living
at present on Tithe mountains and sea-coasts farthest north of Norway, Bovcdent
and Russia. ‘Their language proves them undoubtedly to be of the Mongolian
stock in Asia, and, as such, related to the red man of America. ‘The Laps are
a remarkable instance of this race, as they are converted to Christianity and
have adopted the habits and industry of civilization, modified by the severity
of the arctic climate in their country and their peculiar mode of subsistence as
nomads with flocks of reindeer. We have procured a set of models made by
the individuals of the people themselves, and illustrative of their present mode
of existence.

In offering this small collection for your acceptance, we hope that it may
serve a scientific purpose in comparing the red man with his yellow brother in
the old continent. If it should be in your power to afford us some correspond-
ing objects from your field of research, that is so immensely more extensive, a

ll

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 89

‘very great desideratum in our collection would be supplied that would engage

our most earnest attention.

The articles in question are—

I. Three casts, in plaster, taken from living individuals, viz: 1, an unmixed
Lap, 39 years old; 2, a man whose father was a Fin from Russian Finland,
and whose mother was a Lap, 42 years old; 3, a man whose grandmother was
a Swede, (of the Teutonic stock, ) Ctnerrine Lap, 43 years.

If. Four photographic portraits: 1, mixture of Lap and Fin, 28 years; 2,
74 years ; 3, 28 years; 4, 38 years—pure Laps.

Iif. A reindeer, harnessed with its sledge. The sledge is canoe-shaped, so
as to be able to move upon the deepest and softest snow we ihout going down into it.

IV. A pair of snow-shoes, being very long pieces of thin onde with which
the Lap can walk upon soft snow. They fave straps or stirrups to put the
feet into. ‘The man moves on with the staff.

V. A pair of pack-saddles, with. which they move their luggage in summer
on the back of the reindeers ; included is a model of a wooden tub and a cask ;
two flat pieces of wood to lay across the back of the reindeer are attached.

Vi. A trunk, in which is included the wooden bowl for preserving the rein-
deer milk, and the press for making cheese out of it.

Vil. A spade for removing the snow.

VIII. Two large wooden bowls.

IX. A tent; in the middle the fireplace and two pots hanging over it;
behind is a scaffolding of wood for their stores, raised upon poles, so that it
may not be attacked by dogs.

Confiding in your interest for the advancement of science, I remain, very
respectfully, your obedient servant,

LOUIS KR DAA.

Josepu Henry, Esq.,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

[These articles are now in the museum. |

KAISERLICHE-KGNIGLICHE GEOLOGISCHE REICHS-ANSTALT,
Vienna, December 11, 1863.

Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you for the Smithsonian Institution a
series of tertiary fossils from the Vienna basin, viz:

Sueeemie Wonmeria DEdS Leer A te lsem ve.2 a cet. Seta see oa we 6 species.
Beammne @erithium bedst2 Sie eos eee Se oe 10 species.
Pmemminervearine beds... See ie SPU ee ee 270 species.

Peorabe e022. Cee RE Ao ee es Eevee tee 286 species.

In the box prepared to be sent you will find, 1, the present letter; 2, a sys-
tematic éatalogue, with tabular reference to the localities; 3, a catalogue in
which the localities are kept separate; 4, a guide of geographical reference for
the localities. 'The number of specimens or lots in catalogue 3 is 622. Beside
these there are a number imperfectly determined or not belonging to Austrian
localities. The rest will give a pretty fair idea of the leading or type mollusca
of our Vienna basin. The series here offered has been composed or selected
under the auspices of Dr. Hérnes, director of the Imperial Museum of Miner-
alogy, and he placed it at the disposal of our Imperial Geological Institute, so
that I beg you will consider it as a joint offer from both establishments.

I have the honor to be, dear sir, ever most truly yours,

W. HAIDINGER.
9 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

British Museum, December 30, 1863.

Dear Sir: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of this day’s
date, and to acquaint you that the trustees have acceded to the request made
by Professor Henry, on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution, and that I have
instructed Dr. Gray to give you every facility with a view to such elecirotype
impressions being made for that Institution as are required from our wood
engravings illustrative of the conchology of the North American continent. I
shall be happy. to see you, and to give you any assistance in my power when +—
ever it may be convenient for you to call at the museum, as you propose.

Believe me, dear sir, yours truly,
A. PANIZZI.
Dr. P. P. CARPENTER.

31 PFEIDEMARKET, Hamburg,
February 4, 1864.

Dear Sir: I duly received your very kind letter of the 6th of January, in-
forming me that the director of the Smithsonian Institution would have the
kindness to send me five of the American perennibranchiates for investigation.
A few days afterwards the box was delivered into my hands, containing—

1. Menopoma Alleghaniense.

2. Menobranchus lateralis.

3. Siren lacertina.

4, Amphiuma tridactylum.

5. Siredon pisciformis.

All these amphibia being of the greatest importance for my studies, I cannot
but express to you my most sincere thanks for this most valuable assistance.
You will allow meto pay to yourrenowned Institution, in the mean time, my thanks
for the reports and other valuable works, particularly on the Zodlogy and Anatomy
of Amphibia, published at Washington, and directed to me some years ago.

I should feel most happy if you would give me a direction how I might pay
my thanks in a more material manner. You will, therefore, oblige me very
much by informing me of the desiderata in your collections. Perhaps there
might be some European fishes or amphibia which I might be able to procure for
you. Of sea snakes, which family of snakes I have described some years ago,
there are also some few species in my own possession. In minerals I am pretty
rich, having the best private collection of this branch that exists in our place.

It is only on the supposition that I might be able to furnish to the Smithso-
nian Institution some equivalent that I take the great, and, perhaps, immodest
liberty to mention, that one specimen more of the genera amphiuma, siren, and
menopoma, would be of the greatest importance for my studies. It would be
very difficult to decide all the anatomical questions concerning the named
amphibia after the investigation of only one specimen. Having the intention to
describe in a comparative manner the bones, muscles, and nerves of the famous
Salamandra Japonica, with relation to the other genera of Ichthyodea, I feel
myself in a high degree advanced by the specimens which I owe to your kind-
ness, and would be induced to hope that my little work might not remain quite
imperfect, if there would be any chance to acquire still one specimen more of
the above-mentioned three genera.

Finally, you will allow me to say that I am not now in any connexion with
the Hamburg Museum, as the address of your letter said, but that, though
being on very friendly relations with the directors of our collections, I have
given up my place among them.

With the highest regards, I am yours, very respectfully,

Dr. J. G. FISCHER.

[The specimen requested was sent to Dr. Fischer.]

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF - REGENTS. 91

: Vienna, February 9, 1864.

My Dear Sir: Permit me to enclose here an invitation to join in a subscrip-
tion for a gold honorary medal to be presented to our most worthy Professor Ch.
Fr. Ph. von Martius, of Munich, on his fiftieth anniversary of medical dociorship
on the 30th of March, 1864.

Our most honored friends on the other side of the Atlantic should not fail in
the list; only I am sorry that by various impediments I was prevented from
* writing at an earlier period. It is now’so late that only by very good luck it
will be possible that an answer may arrive previously to the 15th of March, to
be entered in the first list which must be printed, embellished, and then bound
up, and sent to Munich from Vienna before the 30th of March. Whatever is
brought to notice later than the 30th will be appended, and what comes to hand
after the 30th up to the end of June will be given in the first complementary
report to be published on the 1st of July. Nothing will be lost, as even what
comes after that period will be published afterwards.

Every subscriber, of course, will have a bronze copy of the medal, and the
votary tablet sent to him. Subscriptions should be three florins Austrian silver
money, or more, which is about one and a half dollar American silver.

By this time you may already have received our last box with tertiary fossil
types of several localities of the Vienna basin, being a joint parcel from the
Imperial Mineralogical Cabinet and our own Geological Institution.

I am happy to hear you have now the Ainsa Tucson meteoric iron. I shall
send some of these days a paper of mine on the Carleton Tucson, which ap-
peared in the Vienna Academy Proceedings. I enclose impression from the
surface, cut, polished, and etched, and galvanographed positively and negatively.
We shall be happy, as soon as you may fix on cutting some slices off the block,
to receive a bit from you for our Imperial Mineralogical Museum of the Ainsa
Tucson too.

With all the most cordial wishes, ever most truly yours,
W. HAIDINGER.

Professor JosEPH HENRY,

Secretary to the Smithsonian Institution, Washington.

Orrice Hupson’s Bay Company,
Montreal, February 26, 1864.

My Dear Sir: Absence from home and subsequent indisposition have pre-
vented my acknowledging receipt of your letter of 19th ultimo at an earlier date.

The settlement you have made of Mr. Kennicott’s account is quite satisfac-
tory. There was a small deficiency in consequence of a change in the rate of
exchange when your draft reached me}; but that matter can be arranged when
we receive Mr. Mactavish’s final statement of Mr. Kirkby’s account.

The kind expressions of thanks contained in your letter are very gratifying.
We have always felt pleasure in promoting scientific research; but, in Mr.
Kennicott’s case, this was enhanced by his amiable character and prudence. It
is no easy part to play, going as a stranger into a territory inhabited by men
bound to a foreign government, and with exclusive views on many points. But
Mr. Kennicott knew how to meet the circumstances ; and from his arrival among
us until his departure was always popular, and I believe inspired a sincere
friendship and esteem among those with whom he most associated. If in
Washington, pray offer him my kind regards.

Hoping some day to have the honor and pleasure of forming your personal
acquaintance, believe me, sir, very truly yours,

EDW. M. HOPKINS.

JosePpH Henry, Esq,,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.
———————————————————— = == ———_ +

GENERAL APPENDIX

REPORT FOR 1863.
The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution
by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish
information of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and

“
other persons interested in the promotion of knowledge.

LECTURES.

BRIEF ABSTRACT

OF A SERIES OF SIX LECTURES ON

THE PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE,

DELIVERED AT

*
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION IN MARCH, 1864.

BY WILLIAM D. WHITNEY, PROFESSOR OF SANSKRIT IN YALE COLLEGE, NEW HAVEN,

THE scientific study of language is of modern date. Only its scanty and im-
perfect germs are to be found in ancient times. It lacked that wide and com-
prehensive basis of observed and collected facts on which alone such a science
can be founded. The active and searching curiosity of the past century, with
the facilities for investigation given by trade, travel, and philanthropic effort,
could not but call it into being. No single circumstance has so powerfully aided
its development as the introduction of Sanskrit to the knowledge of Europe.
This, the most ancient and primitive of Indo-European tongues, laid the sure
foundation of the comparative philology of the Indo-European family, out of

. which has grown the general science of language.

The objects of this science are twofold: 'l'o discover the nature and history
of language itself, and to elicit information respecting human history. Both
are invested with q very high degree of importance. The value of language
to man, and the absorbing interest of inquiry into its character, are palpable,
and attested by the labors and speculations of generations of scholars and
thinkers. It has also quite recently been found that language is the principal
means of ethnological investigation, of tracing out the deeds and fates of men
during the prehistoric ages. Not only does it determine the fact and the de-
gree of relationship among nations, but it gives information which can be ob-
tained in no other way respecting their moral and intellectual character, and the
growth of their civilization. Linguistic science, as a branch of the study of
human history, embraces the whole race at every period of its history. All
spoken or recorded speech is its material. The dialects of the lowliest as well
as the most highly endowed races are its care. It would fain hold up and study
every single fact in the light of every other related fact, since only thus can all
be fully understood.

To survey in detail, in these lectures, the whole field of linguistic science will
be, of course, impracticable. We can only attempt to lay down and illustrate
its fundamental principles, to gain some insight into its methods, to determine
the nature and force of linguistic evidence, to see how this is elicited from the
material containing it, to note its bearing on historical and ethnological study,
and to review briefly the principal results hitherto obtained by its means
The method followed will be the analytic, establishing principles from facts
96 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE.

within every one’s apprehension, and proceeding from that which is well known
or obvious, to that which is more obscure. Illustrations will be sought, mainly
from among the phenomena of our own familiar speech, since every living and
growing language has that within itself which exemplifies the facts and princi-
ples of universal application in all language. We shall also avoid, as much as
possible, the use of figurative, philosophical, and technical phraseology, and
talk the language of plain fact.

Our preliminary inquiry may properly be, Why do we, ourselves, speak Eng-
lish? ‘Though a simple question, its correct answer will clear our way of
many difficulties. The general reply is obvious: We learned English from
those among whom our earliest years were passed. We did not produce the
words we use by an internal impulse, by the reflection of phenomena in our
consciousness, and the like. As soon as we were able to associate an idea
and its uttered sign, we were taught to stammer the names of the most familiar
objects, and our instruction advanced with our capacities ; our notions and con-
ceptions were brought into shapes agreeing with those they took in the minds:
about us, and were called by the names to which these were accustomed. Cer-
tain liquids which we saw, colorless and white, had not to be studied and com-
pared by us in order to the invention of a title for them. We were informed
that they were “water” and ‘milk.’ The one of them, in certain modes of oceur-
rence, we were made to know as “ puddle” and “river.” The words ery, strike,
bite, eat, drink, love, hate, and so on, were taught us by being applied to acts
and states of which we made experience. Long before any mental analysis of
our own would have given us the distinct ideas of trwe and false, they were im-
pressed upon our minds by admonition, or something stronger. ‘The ap-
pellations of hosts of objects, places, beings, which we had not seen, and per-
haps have not yet seen, were fixed in our minds, with the means of attaching
some distinctive idea to them. The amount and kind of this training varied
greatly in different cases, but we all had it, and by it alone could learn to talk
as we do. Language was the first step in our education. It came by educa-
tion, and not by inheritance. English blood would never have given us Eng-
lish speech. We could just as easily have learned to say wasser or eau as
‘‘water,”’ milch or lait as ‘‘ milk,’ lieben or aitmer as “ love,’ &e. An American
child is brought up by a French nurse in order that it may speak French first,
and it does so. The infant cast on shore alive from a wreck learns the tongue
of its foster-parents, and no outbreak of natural speech ever betrays whence it
derived its birth. The imported African forgets, in a generation, his Congo or
Mendi, and is able to use only a dialect of his master’s speech.

It is already clear, then, that English people do not, as some have paradoxi-
cally maintained, speak English by inherent natural gift, because they are
English, just as all swallows twitter, all bears growl, all lions roar, and so*on.
The special forms of spoken language are matters of imitation. 'They are kept
up by usage, and transmitted by oral tradition.

We thus learn, not English simply, but the particular kind of English which
is spoken by our instructors. A few, perhaps, get nothing from the outset but
the purest style of the language; but hardly any can escape some tinge of local
dialect, of the slang of caste or calling, even of individual peculiarities of our
teachers, inelegancies of pronunciation, pet phrases, colloquialisms and vul-
garisms, and the like. Often errors and infelicities thus acquired in early life
are ineradicable by all the care of after years.

Again, this process does not give us universal command of the resources of
the language. A child’s vocabulary is very scanty, and goes on increasing to
the end of life. The encyclopedic English tongue, as we may call it, contains
over one hundred thousand words. Of these, the most uninstructed classes ac-
quire only three to five thousand, a frugal stock of the most indispensable words
and phrases. ‘To such a nucleus every artisan, in every walk of labor, must

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. i

add his own technical language, containing much which most English speakers
know nothing of. No small portion of the one hundred thousand words is made
up of such special vocabularies. ‘The generally educated man learns much of
many of them, but no one learns them all. Every one may find, on every page
of our great dictionaries, words which he knows not how to deal with. There
are various styles of expression for the same thing which are not at every one’s
command. Even the meanings attributed to the same words by different speakers
are different. The voluptuary, the passionate, the philosophic, and the senti-
mental, for example, mean very different things by “love” and “hate.” It is
no paradox to maintain that, while we all speak English, no two among us speak
precisely the same language, the same in extent, form, or meaning.

What, then, is the English language? It is the aggregate of the articulated
signs for thought current among the English people ; or, itis their average, that
part which is supported by the usage of the majority—a majority counting not
by numbers only, but by culture. It includes varieties of every kind; but it
has unity, from the fact that all who speak it may, to a considerable extent, and
on matters of the most general interest, talk so as to understand one another.
It is kept in existence by uninterrupted tradition, in which each individual takes
a part, handing down his portion of it, with his limitations and peculiarities—
books, a kind of undying individual, greatly assisting in the process. But all
traditional transmission is inherently and necessarily defective, and that of
language forms no exception. If English were a certain fixed body of words,
learned complete by every one, and kept intact, it might more easily be preserved
from alteration. As the case stands, it does not remain the same from genera-
tion to generation.

Its most noticeable mode of alteration is that whichis ever going on in its vo-
cabulary, especially its technical vocabularies. New processes ,and products,
new views and opinions, new knowledge of every kind, must find their fit ex-
pression. No well-informed man can write a chapter now upon what every one

_is thinking and talking of which would be intelligible to the well-informed man

of acentury ago. There are also changes affecting rather the form than the
content of language, of slow progress, and in their inception, in great part, inac-
curacies of speech, opposed by the conservative forces, yet as inevitable in the
end as the others. They show the influence of the great numerical majority
who do not speak with correctness, but whose errors finally become the norm
of the language. Thus, we had formerly a special preterit form spake, and good
speakers would as soon have said “he come and done it” as “‘ he spoke to me.”
Now only spoke is in common use. Three centuries ago we had only Ais as
possessive of both de and zt, but popular usage struck out a new possessive,
ats, for the latter. You we employ not only as object, according to its ancient
usage, but as subject, instead of ye, &c., &c. The influences which brought
about such changes are still to be seen in full operation about us, especially
among children and uninstructed persons, to whom the communication of the
language is imperfectly or incorrectly made. A child substitutes an easy for
a hard sound in pronouncing, drops out a syllable or two from a half-under-
stood word, says “I bringed” or “I brang” for I drought, says “mang” and
“‘mouses,” says “ gooder” and ‘“ goodest,”’ and the like. Its own and others’
care corrects these errors; but if the caré be wanting, the error remains ; and
there are ever in existence, among the lower strata of language-users, hosts of
these deviations from correct usage, always threatening, and sometimes suc-
ceeding in making their way to the surface, and securing recognition and gen-
eral adoption. The conservative forces arrayed against them, aided by school
instruction and reading, are now so powerful among us that the language
changes but very slowly in this way, yet the examples given are truly typical,
and illustrate a force always in action. That, in these and other methods, lan-
guage actually undergoes notable change is palpably true. Go back only to
78
og. PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE.

our Bible translation, to Shakspeare, and much is found which is no longer good
English. Go back five hundred years, to Chaucer, and our own tongue is only
partially intelligible to us. Another five hundred years carries us to the Anglo-
Saxon of King Alfred, a totally strange form of speech, as much so as the
modern German; and yet each one of the thirty or forty generations between
us and Alfred was as singly intent on transmitting to its successor the language
it received from its predecessor as is our own.

These facts and conditions are of universal occurrence in linguistic history.
All language is handed down in the manner described, and is subject, to the
‘same disturbing forces. The process of transmission always has been, and al-
ways will be, imperfect. No tongue remains the same during a long period-of
time. ‘This is the fundamental fact on which rests the whole method of lin-
guistic investigation. ;

We see now what is meant when language is spoken of as having an inde-
pendent existence, as being organic, or an organism, as growing or developing,
and soon. ‘These are only figurative modes of speech. Language-has no ex-
istence, save in the minds and mouths of those who employ it. It is an aggre-
gate of signs of thought, deriving their significance from the intelligent agree-
ment of speakers and hearers. It is in their power, and subject to their will.
As they maintain it in existence, so their consenting action modifies and alters
it. It cannot be changed hastily or capriciously, because it depends upon gen-
eral consent, which can be won only for such modifications and extensions as
are in accordance with its already established rules. Individuals are constantly
trying experiments of alteration upon it, with childish errors of expression, with
bad grammar, with slang, with artificial turns of phrase, and arbitrarily coined
words. But these are, for the most part, only laughed at as blunders, or put
down as mannerisms and vulgarisms. Individual authority, except in special
cases, is too weak to force itself upon public opinion. The speakers of lan-
guage constitute a republic, in which authority is conferred only by universal
suffrage, and for due cause. High political rank does not give power over
speech. The grammatical blunders of an emperor do not become the: rule to
his subjects. But individuals are allowed to introduce novelties and changes
into the general speech; thus, for instance, to name their own inventions or
discoveries, if they do it discreetly and suitably ; and great masters of the art of
speech, poets, orators, are permitted to touch even the more intimate and sacred
parts of language. Is it called for? is it in accordance with the usages and
analogies of the language? is it offered or supported by good authority !—
such are the considerations by which, in any given case, general consent is
won or repelled, and this decides whether the proposed change shall be te-
jected, or shall become part and parcel of the universal speech.

As, then, an organic being grows by the gradual accretion of homogeneous
organic matter, as its existing parts and processes form the new addition, in order
to help the life and functional action of the being, so language extends by the
addition of material accordant with its substance, evolved by its formative
methods, and intended to secure the end of its existence, the expression of the
thoughts of those who speak and write it. It thus presents striking and in-
structive analegies with organic life ; but to call it an organism outright, as some
do, and to claim that its growth is independent of human agency, and that its
study is, therefore, to be ranked among the physical sciences, is palpably and
seriously to misinterpret it. Language is an institution, constantly undergoing,
at the hands of those who use it, adaptation to their varying circumstances and
needs. Between all determining causes and their results in its development
stands, as middle term, the human mind, seeking and choosing expression for
human thought. Its every partis ahistorical product. Its study is a historical *
science, a branch of the study of the human race, and of human institutions.

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 99

As every constituent item of language is the product of a series of changes,
working themselves out in history, the method of linguistic investigation must
be historical. ‘I’o understand the structure and character of speech, and to
penetrate to its origin, we must follow backward the modifying processes to
which it has been subjected, endeavoring to understand the influences which have
produced and governed them. ‘This can be done to but small extent by means
of contemporary records.. We must call to our aid the art of etymological
analysis. On etymology, the tracing out of the history of individual wortls, is
founded the whole science of language. ‘To illustrate the methods of etymolo-
gizing, and to bring to light some of its results, by simple and characteristic
examples, is the object of this second lecture.

Let us look first at evidence showing the composite nature of words. We
are all the time putting together two words to form a compound; as, fear-
inspiring, god-like, house-top, and so on. But the extent to which language is
the result of such composition is apparent only on deeper study. Fearful is
as clear a compound, on reflection, as fear-inspiring ; yet ful is, to our appre-
hension, a kind of suffix, forming a large class of adjectives from nouns, like
the suffix ows, (in peril-ous, riot-ous, &c.;) and its independent origin and
meaning are but dimly present to the mind of one who uses the adjectives.
Fearless and its like are not less evident compounds; but the ess here is not
our word Jess, but the altered form of an older word, meaning “loose, free.”
Again: ly, in godly, brotherly, &c., is of yet obscurer origin, and we deem it
merely a suffix; but a study of the other forms of our language, or a compari-_
son of kindred Germanic dialects now spoken, shows it to be descended from
the adjective Zzke, which has been used in all the languages of our family as
an adjective-forming suffix; we alone have given it the further and now re-
motely derived office of adverbial suffix, employable at will to convert any
adjective into an adverb. The d of such words as I loved, I hated, is proved
by the form it wears in the oldest Germanic tongues to be a relic of the past
tense did: I loved is originally I love did. Sueh and which were once so-like.
and who-like, and so on. The same is the case in the Latin part of our Jan-
guage, and even in its oldest and most essential constituents. The de or ple
of double, triple, and so ‘en, is the root plic, meaning “bend, fold ;” triple is
the precise etymological equivalent of three-fold. The two letters of am, which
seems as simple a word as aught can be, are relies of two elements: one, the
root as, meaning “be ;” the other, the pronoun mi, meaning “me, 1;” am
stands for as-mz, “be-I.”” The third person, zs, has lost the whole of a second

lement, 22, which it once possessed, and of which at least the ¢ is left in nearly

1 the kindred languages ; compare German ‘s¢, Latin est, Greek esti, Sanscrit
asti, &c.

With few exceptions, all the words of our language admit of such analysis,
which discovers in them at least two elements: one radical, containing the
fundamental idea; the other formal, indicating its restriction, application, or

‘relation. ‘This is, in fact, the normal constitution of a word; it contains a root

and a suffix or prefix, or both, or more than one of both. Thus, inapplicabili-
tres contains two prefixes and three suffixes, all clustered about the root plc,
“bend ;” and it is, as it were, the fusion and integration of the phrase “‘ nume
rous conditions of not being able to bend or fit to something.”

Our examples show that word-analysis is, at least in part, only the retracing
of a previous synthesis. We are as sure of the actuality of the process of com-
bination by which these words were formed as if it had all gone on under our
own eyes. There would have been no such suffixes as (ful, less, ly, &e., if
there had not been before in the language the independent words full, loose,
like, &c. No small part of the formative elements of our language can thus
be proved descended from independent words ; if a considerable part do not
admit like proof, we are not authorized to suppose that their history is different
100 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE.

from that of the others, but only that we have not at command the evidence
which would explain it. :

The same examples show not less clearly that alteration, corruption, and
mutilation of the products of combination is a rule of the life of language.
The reason of this corruption lies in great measure in the fact that, having
once struck out a compound, we are not solicitous to keep up the memory of
its descent. We accept the word coined as a conventional sign for the idea
which it conveys, and give our attention mainly to that. Hence ease and con-
venience in the use of the word are consulted; a long vocable is contracted; a
hard combination of consonants is mouthed over into more utterable shape;
subordinate elements are defaced into conformity with the inferiority of their
consequence. So the sailor says bos’n for boatswain, to’gal’nts’ls for topgal-
lantsails, &e. This is a part ofthe wise economy of speech, a sign and means
of the integration of words, contributing to conciseness and vigor of expression.
But it is also a blind tendency, and its effect is in part destructive. It leads
to waste as well as economy; ease and convenience being consulted by the
sacrifice of what is valuable as well as the rejection of what is unnecessary—
if, indeed, it can truly be said that a people not undergoing degradation of
character ever sacrifices anything of its language which is really valuable with-
out providing an equivalent. A language may thus, at any rate, become greatly
altered, giving up much which in other tongues is retained and valued. Our
own English offers one of the extremest examples known of the prevalence of
these wearing-out tendencies.

Thus, for instance, the primitive language from which our own is descended
had a full set of terminations for the three persons plural of the verb, viz: mas?,
tasi, nti—e. g., lagamasi, lagatasi, laganti, “we lie, ye lie, they lie.” In
Latin they appear shorn of their final vowel, as mus, tis, nt. In Gothic, the
oldest Germanic language, they are reduced to their initial consonants only,
m, th, nd—thus, ligam, ligith, ligand. They are still, in this form, pretty
distinctive, and sufficient for their purpose. But the prevailing custom of ex-
pressing the pronouns along with the verb lessened their necessity} and in
Anglo-Saxon they are all reduced to a single form, ath in the present, on in
the imperfect. We, finally, have cut them off entirely, and say we Lie, ye he,
they lie, without any endings designating the person.

In the declension of nouns we have effected a revolution not less thorough.
Our ancient mother-tongue declined every noun substantive in three numbers,
with eight cases in each, and every adjective in three genders besides. With
us all adjective declension has disappeared, and of substantive declension we
have saved only a genitive and a plural ending, both s. In a few plurals, bs
men, mice, teeth, we have seized upon a distinction at first enphonie and acci-
dental only, and have made it significant. So also in the conjugation of our
“irregular” verbs, as sing, sang, sung ; the change of vowel was at first merely
euphonic, then became, as in most German dialects it still continues, auxiliary
to the sense, and finally, with us, it is in many cases the only means of dis-
tinction of present, preterite, and participle.

In one remarkable case, the wearing-out processes have led to the total
abandonment of a conspicuous department of grammatical structure. A dis-
tinction of gender in nouns, as masculine, feminine, or neuter, marked by dif-
ferences of termination and declension, has ever prevailed in the family of lan-
guages to which ours belongs. Even in the Anglo-Saxon, nouns were still
masculine, feminine, or neuter, not according to their natural character, but in
conformity with the ancient tradition, on fanciful grounds of difference, which
we find it excessively difficult to trace out and recognize. But in the exten-
sive decay and ruin of grammatical’ forms attending the elaboration of modern
English from Anglo-Saxon and Norman French, this whole scheme of artificial

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 10]

distinctions has disappeared, leaving almost no trace behind. Natural gender
has replaced grammatical, and the pronominal forms he, she, it, his, him, her, its,
are our only means for its indication.

These two processes—the production of new forms by the combination of
old materials, and the wearing down and wearing out of the forms so produced,
are the principal means by which the external life and growth of language are
kept up, by whose operation spoken tongues are constantly becoming other
than they were. But they are only auxiliary to a not less striking growth in
the interior content of speech, in the meaning of words. It is as important a
part of the historical study of a word to trace out its changes of signification
_as its changes of form; and the former are even richer in curious and unex-
pected developments, are fuller of instruction, than the latter. The internal
content of language is plastic to the touch of the inspiring mind. But for
this, no variability of form or facility of combination could make it aught but a
stiff dead structure, incapable of supplying for any time the needs of a think-
ing, feeling, observing, and reasoning community. ‘Old words are applied to
new uses; the general is individualized, the individual generalized; the con-
crete becomes the’ abstract; a pregnant expression, a startling metaphor, is
reduced to the level of an ordinary phrase; delicate shades of meaning are dis-
tinguished by the gradual differentiation of synonymous words, and so on.

‘The rate at which these processes of change go on is very various. It de-
pends, in part, upon subtle and recondite causes, as upon the individual char-
acter of different languages and the qualities of the peoples who speak them—
qualities, perhaps, which exhibit themselves only in this way, and hardly ad-
mit of analysis and recognition elsewhere. In part, it depends also upon ex-
ternal circumstances, upon change of surroundings and mode of life, of mental
and physical activity. An English family, wrecked on a coral island in the
south seas, would soon find a great part of its vocabulary useless, and in a
very few generations its language would have become vastly impoverished.
A tribe from such an island, again, if suddenly transferred to the midst of
northern variety of clime, product, and occupation, would have to expand
rapidly its store of speech to keep pace with the growing wealth of its expe-
riences. As regards grammatical change, all that assists the purity of linguistic
tradition tends to keep language the same; so, especially, culture, literature,
the habit of instructién. Careiul and pervading education reduces to a mini-
mum that immense and most important class of changes which begins in popu-
lar inaccuracies. On the other hand, the intermixture of races of diverse
speech, rendering necessary the elaboration, by mutual compromise, of a new
dialect for common use, tends powerfully to the disorganization of grammatical
structure. It is such a course which has made of our English the language
which, above all others, has yielded up most of the grammatical fabric which
was its birthright and inheritance.

The processes of alteration illustrated in the last lecture are familiarly spoken
of as going on in language itself, like fermentation in bread, or deplacement
and replacement in animal tissues. But it must not be forgotten that every
Separate item of change is the work of an individual or individuals. In lan-
guage, the ultimate atoms at work are not dead matter, but intelligent beings,
acting for a purpose. Lach, indeed, acts unpremeditatedly, and for the most
par unconsciously ; each only wants to use the common possession for his own

enefit, at his own convenience; yet cach is also an actor in the great work of
preserving and of shaping the general speech. Now, the infinite diversity of
circumstances and of characters in the speakers of language tends toward infi-
nite diversity in their action and its results; each would, acting independently,
impress upon its progress a somewhat different course. Linguistic develop-
yy 102 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE.

ment is thus the product of an infinity of divergent or ¢entrifugal forces. . The
great centripetal foree which holds them in check, and combines them into a
single direction, is the necessity of communication. Man is no soliloquist, and
that would not be language which was understood and employed by one only.
Each person is, in his own way, engaged in modifying language, but no one’s
action shapes the general speech unless it be accepted by the rest and become
common usage. Hach community must speak alike; whatever changes their
tongue may undergo must be ratified and adopted by them all.

Communication being thus the force which produces uniformity of speech, it
is clear that whatever narrows communication and tends to isolate communities
favors separation of a language into dialects ; whatever extends communication
and expands the limits of communities, tends to preserve language homoge-
neous. When a race is confined within narrow boundaries, however rapidly
its tongue may undergo the inevitable: processes of change, all will learn from
each and each from all, and they will continue to understand one anothér. But
if the race grow rapidly in numbers, spreading over region after region, and
sending out distant colonies, only favoring circumstances and conditions can
preserve its unity of speech. In a low state of civilization’ a maintenance of
the bonds of community over a wide area is impracticable; the tendency is to
clannish feeling, to separation into tribes; and multiplicity of dialects is the
natural consequence. Culture and enlightenment give a wonderful cohesive
force; political. unity, national feeling, community of traditions and faith, make
strongly in favor of linguistic unity also; a traditional literature helps yet more
powertully to the same result; but, most of all, a written literature, and a sys-
tem of popular instruction. ‘The same causes which restrict the variation of
language in time, from generation to generation, restrict it also in space, from
region to region. Moreover, as community occasions and preserves identity of
speech, so it also has power to bring identity out of dissimilarity. The fusion
of communities causes the fusion of their forms of speech; the multiplication
and strengthening of the ties which bind together the sections of a people makes
for the effacement of differences already existing, the assimilation of dialects, and
the production of homogeneous language.

Both classes of influences—those which lead to diversity and those which
produce assimilation—are always at work, and a consideration of their joint
and mutual acjion is necessary to the explanation of the history of any lan-
guage, or family of languages’; but the former are more fundamental and in-
separable from linguistic growth; the latter are more external and incidental,
more varying in their mode and scale of operation. Language everywhere
tends to diversity, but circumstances connected with its use check, control, and
even reverse the tendency. ‘The division of a formerly homogeneous language
into dialects has been the rule in human history; the extinction of dialectic
differences, whether by the extinction or fusion with others of the peoples em-
ploying them, or by extension of the sway of single dialects, has been the ex-
ception, connected with the great facts of history, as the spread of empire and
civilization under the auspices of certain races. Misled by a too exclusive at-
tention to facts of the latter class, one or two modern authors of high rank have
been guilty of the paradox of holding that infinite dialectic division is the
normal primitive state of language, which tends to coalescence and assimilation.
A greater and more pernicious error could hardly be maintained.

The principles hgre laid down teach us how we are to proceed in classifying
and arranging the infinity of tongues now prevailing on the earth. Many of
them, at least, are the divergent branches of more original stocks. Languages

5
are to be grouped by their affinities: we are to rank together first those which

i]

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 103
*

are of closest and most evident relationship, and gradually to extend our scheme
till we have done all which the nature of the case permits ; tifi the evidence on
which we found our classification fails us.

That the slightly distinguished forms of speech prevailing in the different
sections of our own country, and even the more notable dialects which are to
be found among the lower orders of population in the British isles, constitute
together a single language, is too evident to call for proof. Let the man most
ignorant of history go about the world, from British colony to colony, finding
here and there, on coast and island, in fortress and city, communities of English-
speaking people, and he will not think of doubting that they were all scattered
thither irom a common centre, and have their common language by community
of linguistic tradition. A like conclusion is almost equally palpable when we
seek after kindred for our language on the continent of Kurope. There is a
large class of evidently related dialects, occupying the Netherlands, Germany,
Denmark, the Scandinavian peninsula, and Iccland, which a very little study
‘shows us to be akin with the more important half of our own tongue, that
which comes to us from the Anglo-Saxon. There is another large class in
southern Europe, comprising the French, Spanish, Portugtiese, Italian, Rheto-
Romanie, and Wallachian, which exhibit an equally clear connexion with the
non-Saxon part of our familiar speech. If we say true, while the Dutchman
says ¢rouw, the German ¢rew, the Swede and Dane tro, &c., it is because we
have all received the same word in the same sense by uninterrupted tradition
from some community which used a form coincident with one of these, or nearly
resembling them all. So, also, if we say verity, while the Frenchman says
verité, the Italian veritd, the Spaniard verdad, &e. Recorded history, in fact,
fully explains the descent of this latter class of languages from a single mother,
the Latin, as it also makes clear why our English is composed of. materials
derived from both classes. What recorded history does not explain is the
more recondite, but not less undeniable evidence of relationship which we dis-
cover between these two classes themselves, as well as between them both and
most of the other languages of Europe, together with some of those of Asia.
These are, namely, the Greek, ancient and modern; the Slavonic, occupying
Russia, Poland, Bohemia, Servia, and other provinces in the eastern part of
Austria and the northern of Turkey; the Lithuanic, around the southern shore
of the Baltic; the Celtic, of which the scanty remains are now found in Ireland,
the Scotch highlands, Wales, and Brittany; and, outside of Europe, the tongues
of Iran, as the Persian, with its ancient and modern congeners, and its remoter
kindred, Kurdish, Armenian, Afghan, and Ossetie; and, finally, the languages
of India, the Sanscrit and its descendants.

These various branches go together to make up the great family of related
languages which’ we call the Indo-European. Their relation to one another is
- the same in kind with that of the various Germanic dialects, or the Romanic,
and differs only in degree. The resemblances and coincidences which they
exhibit are explainable only upon the hypothesis of a common linguistic tradi-
tion; their differences are fully accounted for by their divergent growth and
development during the ages which have passed since their separation. A few
selected specimens of their accordance will be enough to give here, as their
relation is now a matter of general knowledge, and few or none are found to
doubt or deny it. Examples of words corresponding in all or nearly ail the
branches are as follows (the equivalent words in two or three unconnected
languages are also added for the sake of more fully exhibiting the value of the
coincidences) :
104 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE:

*
| | |
Two. | Three, Seven. -| Thou. Me. Mother. | Brother. | Daughter.
| Thri. Sibun. Thu. | Mik. Muoter. | Brothar, | Dauhtar.
| ‘Tri. | Septyni. | Tu. | Manén. | Moter. Brolis. Dukter.
| Tri, | Sedmi. | Tii. | Man. Mater. | Brat. Dochy.
| Tri. Secht. Tu. Me. Mathair.,) Brathair.| Dear.
| Tres. | Septem. | Tu. Me, Mater. Prater. | | --- eee.
| Treis. Hepta. Su. Me. Méter. Phrator. | Thugatér,
ra | Hapta. Tum. | Mé. Matar | sane ties Grn apse eee
Tri. Sapta. Twam. | Mé. Matar. | Bhratar. | Duhitar.
MAVEDIG..J52.5- 5-0 | Ithn. | Thalath. | Sab’. Anta. Ana. Umm. Akh. Bint.
utisigh: oo. So528 | Iki. | Uch. Yedi. Sen. | Ben. | Ana. Kardash. | Kiz.
Hungarian ........-. | Ket. | Harom. | Het. Te: | Engem. | Anya. Fiver. | Leany.

But, to the historical student of language, correspondences of grammatical
structure are more unequivocal signs of near relationship than ¢orrespondences
of words, being less exposed to imputation of accidental origin. As striking
and convincing an example of this kind of evidence, perhaps, as any other is
furnished in the inflection of the verbal tenses, as follows:

Ihave. | Thouhast. | He hath. | Wehaye. | Ye have. | They have.

MeUMgMS Fe sees Sas vous eee 3 Haba. Habai-s. Habai-th. | Haba-m. Habai-th. | Haba-nd.
MH WANNG. sce coc aca sonia ein —mi. -si. ti. —me. -te. -ti.

RIAVOHIO Seth ssl cemenlaaccitee se mi. —si. -ti. -mu. -te. —nti,
(Ot LN EN ees ©, ae Eee Se a 2 ae See ee Hc -d. —m. -d. -t.

LUE ARC SSE Se ae res eee aes Habeo. Habe-s. Habe-t. Habe-mus. | Habe-tis. Habe-nt.
Greek, (dialectic)../2: cc. bans —mi. si. -ti. —mes. —te. —nti,
Persian, (modern) .-....-....... SIMs See ee ae -d, -m. -d. -nd,
PaANACU eer aciats satan set ete =mi. =si. -ti, —masi. -tha. -uti.

These are specimens, taken from among a host of others which crowd every
part of the grammar and vocabulary of the languages in question, and their
convincing weight it is impossible to deny. It is certain that at some time in
the past, and in some limited region of Asia or Europe, there lived a tribe from
whose rude speech have descended all those rich and cultivated tongues now
spoken and written by so many great nations of both the eastern and western
continents ; but to know just where and when is beyond our power. The claim
often set up that the home of the family was in the northeastern part of the
Tranian plateau, not far from the mountains of the Hindu-Koh, rests upon no
sufficient grounds. The traditions of no race reach back far enough to be
authoritative upon such a point. Nor is the testimony derivable from language
more conclusive. And to define, even with distant approach to confidence, the
time which the tongues of the family must have occupjed in running their
career of development is wholly impracticable. That the time of Indo-Euro-
pean unity must have been thousands of years before Christ is very certain.
Recent discoveries are proving that man’s antiquity is much greater than has
hitherto been usually supposed. Respecting the origin of particular races our
knowledge is likely ever to continue exceedingly indefinite. As to the grade
of civilization and mode of life, however, of the Indo-European family before
its dispersion, their language gives us reliable, though incomplete, information.
Words which are found in the speech of all the separated branches must have
appertained to the mother tongue, and must imply the knowledge or possession,
in that primitive period, of what they indicate. By such means we learn that
the tribe was not nomadic, and that it addicted itself to agriculture and the
raising of cattle. It reared our chief domestic animals. The region it inhabited
was varied, and not near the ocean; its most marked season was winter.
Barley, and perhaps wheat also, was raised for food. Certain metals were
worked, perhaps iron among them. Weaving was practiced. he arms of
offence and defence were those usual among primitive peoples—the bow, sword,

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 105

spear, and shield. Boats were built and managed by oars. The political organi-
zation was probably that of petty tribes. The relations of the family were well
and distinctly established. Some of the stars were noticed and named; the
moon was the chief measurer of time. The religion was polytheistic—a worship
of the personified powers of nature, and its rites were practiced without a
priesthood.

The present lecture is to be devoted to the further consideration of the Indo-
European family, to a brief exposition of its importance, and of the special
interest attaching to its language, and to some account of the history of the
latter.

One source of the especial interest which we feel in Indo-European speech
is found in the fact that our own language is one of its branches. This would
call for and justify a particular attention to it on our part, even did it lack
claims to the same from men of other races. But it does, in fact, possess such
claims, and that partly by reason of the historical importance of the peoples
which speak it, and their superior gifts, which lend prominent value to inquiries
into a matter which illustrates both. Since the first rise of the Persian empire,
the various branches of this family have borne a leading part in the drama of
universal history. Greece, however, the bitter foe and final conqueror of Persia,
was the chief founder of Indo-European greatness, and the most brilliant ex-
ample of Indo-European genius; in art and literature what the Hebrew race
has been in religion, and exerting an influence as unlimited in space and in
time. Rome next, inheriting the fruits of Gréek culture, gained the empire of
the world, and impressed upon all nations a political and social unity. Chris-
tianity itself, rejected by the Semitic race among whom it appeared, was taken
up by Indo-Europeans, and added a new bond of unity, a religious one, to the
ties by which Rome bound the world together. The Germans were mainly
instrumental in overthrowing the power of Rome; they gave monarchs to nearly
every throne in Durope, and infused new blood into the effete populations; but
their devastations ushered in a period of darkness, during which it seemed for
a time as if the Semites, inspired with the fury of a new religion, (Moham-
medanism, ) were to succeed to the empire of humanity. With their repulse and
downfall began the last and most glorious era of Indo-European supremacy, in
the midst of which we live; when the races of that family are the undisputed
leaders, the acknowledged guardians and propagators of civilization. The
establishment of the unity of this family, and the light thrown from language
upon its history, constitute the most brilliant achievement of the new science
of language, which* began with its recognition, and has developed along with
its investigation. Indo-European language furnished such a grand body of
related facts as the science needed for its sure foundation. Its dialects have a
range, in period and variety of development, to which those of no other family
approach ; they illustrate the processes of linguistic growth upon an unrivalled
scale. ‘The records of Chinese literature*go back, perhaps, to an antiquity as
great, or greater ; but the Chinese language is almost without a history. There
are Egyptian written documents which ‘are older than anything else the world
has to show, but they are scanty and obscure, and the Egyptian tongue also
stands comparatively isolated. ‘The Semitic languages come nearest to offering
_ a parallel ; but they, too, fall far short of it. While their age is nearly the same,
their variety is greatly inferior; they are a group of closely related dialects, not
presenting greater differences than some single branches of the Indo-European
family, as, tor instance, the Germanic. And the other divisions of the human
race hardly cover, to any notable extent, time as well as space with their known
dialects; they offer us only their extant forms of speech. Now, much may be
106 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE.

done, even with the aid of contemporary related dialects only, toward pene-
trating their common history, because one will be found to have preserved one
part, another another, of their ancestral tongues; but conclusions so reached
will be inferior both in copiousness and in certainty to those which are derived
from a comparative study of older and younger dialects, which illustrate the
laws of change in their progress, and trace, as it were, currents and courses of
development whose direction we can follow backward with confidence. This
advantage we enjoy, to the highest known degree, in the Indo-European lan-
guages. In the Germanic branch we have several different lines of linguistic
descent, extending through a period of 1,500 years; the English going back to
the Anglo-Saxon of the seventh century; the German nearly or quite as far;
the Scandinavian to a somewhat less remote period; while the venerable Gothie
of the fourth century (oldest of all) helps notably to bridge over the interval to
the primitive language of the family. Celtie literature is much less rich, and
also less ancient, carrying us up.to or beyond the tenth century. ‘The oldest
of the numerous Slavonic dialects, the ancient Bulgarian, has monuments a
thousand years old. The Lithuanic is of much more recent date, but in many
of its forms more antique and primitive than any of the languages hitherto
referred to. The Romanic languages, through their mother, the Latin, take
us up to a few centuries beyond the Christian era; the Greek to toward a
thousand years before Christ. The varied series of Persian tongues comes
down from an antiquity nearly equalling the Greek; and the Sanscrit, the
sacred language of ancient India, exceeding all the rest in age, and yet more in
its preservation of primitive material and forms, reaches in its oldest records an
epoch removed nearly 4,000 years from our own day.

In investigating this rich and varied body of kindred tongues, the new
science of language elaborated its processes and deduced its general laws, ap-
plicable, with such modifications as the separate cases require; to other families
also. ‘The general method of study is everywhere the same, being conditioned
by the nature of language itself, as a thing of historic growth, and by the
capacity of related languages to cast light upon each other’s history. Historie
analysis, by the aid of an extensive and careful comparison of kindred forms, is
the grand means of research. From this its fundamental method, the science,
in its growing stage, bore for some time the familiar name of ‘comparative
philology.” ‘The comparison must be made in a scientific and orderly manner,
proceeding from the nearer to the more remotely connected, from the clearer to
the more obscure; but, finally, all language is brought within its sphere, and
the full meaning of each linguistic fact is read in the light of every other,
diverse as well as correspondent.

The history of Indo-European speech has been more carefully read, and is
better understood, than that of any other grand division of human language—
imperfect as is still our comprehension of much that concerns it, partly owing
to the incomplete analysis of evidence still preserved, but partly also to the
irreparable loss of evidence. Some of the principal facts in that history are
worthy of further attention. .

The chief processes in the growth of the languages of our family have been
shown to be the combination of old material into new words, with accompany-
ing corruption and mutilation of phonetic form and independent meaning.
These processes may go on in the future to an indefinite extent, with constant
evolution from each form of speech of another slightly differing from it, until
the descendants of every existing dialect shall be so unlike their ancestors
that their relationship shall be scarcely discoverable. The question arises,
whether there has been the same indefinite progress in the past, without
traceable sign of an actual beginning. This inquiry is to be answered in the
negative; the evidence of language points distinctly back to an earliest con-
dition, or commencement of history; our analysis brings us finally to élements

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 107

which we must regard as original. First, it must be claimed that our analyses are
real, and not imaginary; they are the retracing of the steps of a previous
synthesis. his is palpably the case with the latest of them, as in the case
of truthful (truthful) and godly (god-like) ; it is equally.clear, too, as regards
all the formative apparatus which is peculiar to the Germanic languages, since
this must have been elaborated by them irom their own materials, since the ©
separation of the Germanic branch from the rest of the family. But there is
no stopping in this series of admissions. Every word-clement, separable by
analysis, of which the genesis can be shown, which can be carried back to a
word having an independent status in the language, must have been appended
as an independent vocable to the words with which it was first connected.
And even more. Considering how easily the evidence of origin becomes oblit-
erated by the processes of phonetic alteration, we may not deny a former in-
dependence to formative elements of which we cannot now trace the genesis.
The parts into which etymological analysis separates our words are, as a uni-
versal rule, those by the actual putting together of which the words in ques-
tion were once made up. In analyzing zrrevocability, for example, we take
off affix after aflix, leaving each time a word to which that affix had been
added, till at last is left only the syllable voc, which conveys the idea of ‘call-
ing,” and which, though nowhere appearing in its naked form in actual use,
we must believe to have existed before any one of the various aflixes with
which we find it in combination was appended to it. To suchsyllables, which
we call roots, we everywhere arrive by pushing our analytical process to the
utmost, and these we believe to be the germs out of which language has actu-
ally grown. In other words, the Indo-European languages began with an
original monosyllabic stage. From monosyllabic roots, by processes not differ-
ing in nature trom those which are still in operation, has been developed the
marvellous and richly varied structure of our modern speech. ‘T'lvis is a truth,
the recognition of which has been reached, almost with unanimity, by students
of language ; the objections which are urged against it by the few who refuse
it their belief are iounded in misapprehension and prejudice, and are of no
avail.

The Indo-European roots are of two classes: roots of position, demonstra-
tive or pronominal roots, and roots of quality, predicative or verbal roots. The
former form chiefly pronouns and prepositions; the latter, verbs and nouns.
Pronominal roots denote the relations of things to the speaker as regards place ;
their fundamental distinction is between the ¢hzs and the that, the nearer and
the remoter object. They are of the simplest phonetic form, generally a sim-
ple consonant with a following vowel, composing an open syllable, and they
are but few in number. The verbal roots are more numerous, counting by
hundreds, and they are of every variety of form, from a simple vowel toa
vowel both preceded and followed by one or more consonants. Instances are:
t and gd, denoting simple motion; ah, swift motion; std, standing; vas, stay-
ing ; sad, sitting; pad, walking; vart, turning; pat, flying; ad, eating; pd,
drinking; vid, seeing; vak, speaking; dd, giving; garbh, grasping; dik,
pointing out; dbhar, ‘bearing; kar, making; bandh, binding; bid, shining ;
bhi, growing, &c., &c. They represent each its own meaning in its naked-
ness of all limitations or applications, in a state of indeterminateness from
which it is equally ready to take on the semblance of verb, substantive, or
adjective.

The first beginnings of polysyllabism were made by compounding together
roots of the two classes. Thus, the addition to the root wah, “speaking,” of
the pronominal elements mi, sz, #2, produced combinations to which usage as-
signed the meaning “I speak, thou speakest, he speaks,” laying in them the
same idea of predication which we put into the ambiguous word dove, when we
say “I love.” Other pronominal elements, modified or combined to express
108 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE.

duality and plurality, formed the other numbers of this simple verbal tense.
The prefixion of an augment, an adverbial prefix, pointing to a “then” or
“there” as one of the conditions of the action, gave a past tense; reduplica-
tion, symbolizing the completion of the action, produced a perfect. The future
and the moods, subjunctive and optative, were chiefly formed by composition
with the developed forms of other roots,, signifying ‘to be” and ‘to desire.”
Expansions of the verbal scheme, down to such late formations as the Germanic
preterit (I love-d = I love-did) and the Romanic future (j’aimer-ai = j'ai &@
aimer, “1 have to love,’’) are very numerous and various. The same root of
action or quality, by the addition of other affixes, in part of pronominal origin,
in part derived from other verbal roots, had its indefiniteness limited to expres-
sion of the person or thing possessing the quality or exerting or suffering the
action, or of the act or quality itself; and the forms so created became the basis
of still further modification and combination. Thus arose nouns, substantive
and adjective; for the two classes are originally and in idea but one. Things
were named as the possessors of qualities or acts, not in the way of definition
or complete description, but by seizing on some notable characteristic, and
making it stand as representative of the rest. Nouns were provided with ecase-
terminations; these varied the themes to which they were appended, as to num-
ber, whether singular, dual, or plural; as to gender, whether male, female, or
neither of the two, (and this, as already noticed, upon an ideal scheme of classi-
fication ;) and as to case, or kind of relation sustained to the action of the sen-
tence, whether as subject, direct object, or indirect object, with implication of
the relations which we express by the use of the prepositions ¢o, 2m, with, from,
for, and of. Hight such cases were possessed by the primitive language ; the
Anglo-Saxon retained five of them; we have saved but one of the oblique
cases, the genitive, (our “ possessive.’”’) Prepositions, adverbial prefixes to the
verb, of mixed pronominal and verbal origin, were from a very early time im-
portant aids in directing and limiting the action expressed by the verb; these
only later, and by degrees, detached themselves from the verb, and came to
belong to the noun, assuming the office of its disappearing case-endings. The
article is the part of speech of most modern origin, the definite article growing
out of the demonstrative pronoun, the indefinite out of the numeral one.

At what rate these processes of growth went on at the beginning, how rapid
was the development out of monosyllabic barrenness into the wealth and fer-
tility of inflective speech, we can never hope to know. The eonditions of that
ancient period, and the degree in which they could quicken the now sluggish
processes of word-combination and formation, are beyond our ken. We know
only that, before the separation of the Indo-European tribe into the branches
which later became the nations of Europe and southwestern Asia, so much of
this linguistic development had taken place that its traces remain uneffaced,
even to the present day, in the languages of them all; and, also, that the work
was accomplished hundreds of years, if not thousands, before the light of re-
corded history breaks upon the very oldest member of the family.

/

Much of what has been shown to be true of the history of Indo-European
language is true also of that of other divisions of the human race. All the
varied forms of speech which fill the earth have grown into their present
shape by development out of such simple elements as we have called roots;
roots, too, have been everywhere of the same two classes, pronominal and ver-
bal, and the earliest forms have beeh produced especially by the combination
of the two. Linguistic families are made up of those languages which have
recognizably descended, in the ordinary course of linguistie tradition, from a
common ancestor. But these great families are found to differ from one
another, not only in their material, but also in their management of it; in their

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 109

apprenension of the grammatical relations to be expressed by the combination
of elements, and in the general way in which they apply their resources to the
expression of these relations. Indo-European languages are what is generally
called “inflective.” By this is meant, that they show a peculiar aptitude in
closely combining the radical and formal elements, forgetting their separate
individuality, and accepting the compound as integral sign of the thing indi-
cated; submitting it then, as a whole, to the altering processes of linguistic
growth. ‘This tendency shows itself very differently in different constituents
of the language: in wntruthfully, for example, the four elements are held in-
dependently apart; while in sing, sang, sung, song, inflection has reached its
extreme result, substituting an internal variation for original aggregation. The
value of this distinction will appear more clearly as we go on to consider the
characteristics of the other great families. We will take them up in an order
partly geographical, partly based upon their relative importance.

The second family is the Semitic, or Shemitic, so called because the descent
of most of the nations speaking its languages is traced in the Bible to Shem.
Its principal branches are: 1. The northern, Syriac or Aramaic. 2. The
central, Hebrew and Phenician. 3. The southern, Arabic, with its outliers in
Eastern Africa, the languages of Abyssinia. It is a strongly marked group,
and, though occupying but a narrow territory, is of prime consequence, from
the conspicuous part which the race speaking it has played in the history of
the world. In the great empires of Mesopotamia the Semitic race first rose to
high importance; then in the commercial and civilizing activity of the Phe-
nicians, whose colony, Carthage, long disputed the dominion of the world with
Rome. Meantime, the politically almost insignificant little people of the
Hebrews were producing a religion and religious literature, which, made uni-
versal by Christ, were to become the mightiest, elements in history. Finally,
in the Mohammedan uprising, the third branch of the race advanced suddenly
to a leading place, and for a while threatened even to reduce to vassalage the
Indo-European nations; and it is still a conquering and civilizing power in
parts of Asia and Africa.

The Semitic type of language is also inflective, like the Indo-European, but
not in such a way as implies any historical connexion between the two. The
Semitic tongues are in many respects of a more strange and isolated character
than any others known. ‘Their most fundamental peculiarity is the triliterality
of their roots, every Semitic verbal root containing just three consonants.
And it is composed only of consonants: their vocalization is almost solely a
means of grammatical flexion. Thus, g-t-/ is a root conveying the idea of
“killing ;” then gatala means ‘he killed;” qutidla, “he was killed;” ugtwl,
“kill ;” gat, “killing ;” zgéal, “causing to kill;” gad, “‘murder;” qitl,
“enemy ;”’ gut/, “murderous ;” and so on. Prefixes and suffixes are also used,
but to only a limited extent; there is little left for them to do; the formation
of derivative from derivative, by accumulation of affixes, is almost totally un-
known. This significant vocalization is, to our knowledge, an ultimate fact in
Semitic speech in all its forms, as is the radical triliterality ; but it seems im-
possible to regard the latter, especially, as absolutely original ; and many at-
tempts are made, with but indifferent success as yet, to reduce the roots to a
simpler and less Procrustean form, out of which they should be a development.
The different languages are of very near relationship, like German, Dutch, and
Swedish, rather than like German, French, and Russian, for instance. Nor
have they varied in the course of their gecorded history to anything like the
same extent with the Indo-European languages. Everything in Semitic speech
wears an aspect of peculiar rigidity.

The Semitic verb is strikingly unlike ours in its apprehension of the element
of time. It distinguishes only two tenses, whose chief distinction is that of
complete and incomplete action: each may be, in different circumstances, either
110 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE.

past, present, or future. Of wealth of modal forms there is but little; distine-
tions of the action of transitive, causal, intensive, iterative, reflexive, and the
like, by so-called conjugations, are multiplied instead. In their nouns, the
Semites distinguish two genders, masculine and feminine, and three numbers;
but cases are almost wanting, only the Arabic separating nominative, genitive, —
and accusative. The substantive verb is mostly wanting. ‘The language is
poor in particles and connectives ; sentences are strung together, not interwoven
into a period. ‘The characteristic stiffness is also shown in the development of
signification. Words applied to intellectual and moral uses remain metaphors ;
the figure shows through, and cannot be lost sight of. Semitic speech, then, is
rather pictorial, forcible, vivid, than adapted to calm and reasoning philosophy.

The next family of languages is one of much greater extent and’variety. It
covers the whole northern portion of the eastern continent, with most of Central
Asia, and parts of both Asia and Europe lying further south. We will call it
the Seythian family ; it is known also by several other names, as Ural-Altaic,
Tatarie, Mongolian, Turanian. It is divided into five principal branches: 1.
The Ugrian, or Finno-Hungarian, which is chiefly European in situation, in-
cluding the languages of the Lapps, the Finns, and the Hungarians, with their
congeners in the Russian territories, on both sides of the Ural. 2. The Samoi-
edic, in Siberia, of small consequence. 3. The Turkish, or Tataric, spoken by
races who have played some conspicuous part in modern history, especially in
the dismemberment of the Mohammedan empire: its subdivisions are numerous,
and extend from Turkey in Europe to the lower Lena, in Northern Siberia. 4.
The Mongolian, the language of a people who in the 13th century overwhelmed
nearly all the monarchies of Europe, and established for a brief period an em-
pire the widest the world has ever seen: the Mongols now live in insignificance
under Chinese domination. 5. The 'Tungusic, in the extreme east, having for
its principal branch the Manchu, spoken by the present ruling dynasty and
tribe in China.

The Scythian races have played but a subordinate part in human affairs.
War and devastation have been their chief trade: they have shown no aptitude
for advancing civilization, and but little for appropriating it. No written mon-
uments of their languages carry us back to a past at all remote. But it is
claimed of late by students of the Assyrian and Babylonian inscriptions, that
one of their languages is a Scythian dialect, of the Finno-Hungarian branch,
and even that those who spoke it were the founders of the civilization of that
region. If this is established as true, it will greatly modify the aspect of an-
cient ethnological history.

The linguistic tie which binds together the branches of this great family is
but a weak one, much less unequivocal than in the other families we have noted.
There is less correspondence between them in linguistic material and forms ;
either their separation is very remote, or they have had a peculiarly mobile and
alterable structure. Their chief resemblances are of morphological character ;
they are all alike “ agglutinative ;” the combinations by which their words are
formed are of a loose nature; the root or theme is held apart from the suffixes,
and these from one another, with a distinctive consciousness of their separate
individuality. All formative elements follow the root to which they are attached ;
prefixes are unused; the root, which is monosyllabic, remaining pure and un-
changed, whatever accretions it may receive. It, however, usually affects the
suffixes, in a manner which constitutes one of the striking phonetic peculiarities
of the family. ‘The vowels are divided into two classes, heavy and light, and
only vowels of the same class are allowed to occur within the limits of the same
word; hence, the vowels of all suffixes are assimilated to that of the root. Thus,
in ‘Turkish, from 4a6é4 comes babd-lar-um-dan, “from our fathers ;’? while from
dedeh comes dede-ler-in-den, “from their grandfathers.’ This is usually called

»

PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 111

the “law of harmonic sequence of vowels.” Varieties and irregularities of
conjugation and declension are almost wholly wanting in Scythian grammar.

The rank of the Scythian languages in the general scale of human speech,
notwithstanding their euphonious structtre and great wealth of forms in certain
departments, is but an inferior one. ‘Those of the western or European branch
are decidedly the noblest, and they diminish in value eastward, the Tungusic
being the poorest of all.

There are those who would give the Scythian family a yet wider extension,
even making it include most of the other Asiatic tongues, with those of the
islands. Such sweeping classification, in the present state of our knowledge,
has no scientific value, and is even opposed to the plainest evidences of lin-
guistic structure and material. One group, that of the Tamulic or Dravidian
dialects of Southern India, is most confidently, and with most plausibility, claimed
as Scythian, and may probably yet be proved such.

China and Farther India are occupied by races whose languages form a sin-
gle class. Their distinction is that they are monosyllabic; they have never
grown out of that original stage in which, as we have seen, Indo-European
speech also had its beginning. ‘Their words are still roots, of indeterminate
logical form; they are made parts of speech only by the consenting apprehen-
sion of speaker and hearer, guided by their order and by the general require
ments of the sense. But while the different languages of the class agree in
general morphological character, they show great diversity in material, and the
nature and degree of their relationship is very obscure. The’ Chinese is infi-
nitely the most important among them. Its abundant literature goes back even
into the second thousand years before Christ. It has only about 450 different
phonetic combinations in its vocabulary; which, however, by change in the
tone of utterance, are made into rather more than twice that number of distinct
words. Yet this scanty apparatus, by the power which the mind has over its
instrument, has been the means of expression of far higher, profounder, and
more varied thought, than the majority of highly organized dialects spoken’
among men. China has been the mother of culture to the races lying south,
east, and west of her ory the rest of the world she has affected mainly
through the products of h@r ingenuity and industry.

Those who speak the Malay-Polynesian languages fill all the islands, from
the coast of Asia southward and eastward, from Madagascar to the Sandwich
group, from New Zealand to Formosa. Only the present spoken dialects are
known, and most of those but very imperfectly, sa that their groupings and
degrees of relationship are little understood: there may prove to be more than
one distinct family among them. Their phonetic form is of the simplest kind.
Their roots are prevailingly dissyllabic in form, and of nominal rather than ver-
bal meaning. Reduplication is a common mode of their development; the rest
is accomplished more by prefixes than suflixes. Anything that can properly
be called a verbal form is. hardly to be found in most of the dialects; mood,
tense, number, gender, case, are wanting.

The oldest dated monuments of ancient culture, the oldest written records,
are found in the valley of the Nile. The earliest form of Egyptian speech is
preserved on tables of stone and rolls of papyrus held by dead hands; a later,
the Coptic, has a Christian literature of the first centuries after Christ, but the
Coptic also has been extinct now for more than two centuries. It was of the
simplest structure; its monosyllabic roots had value as verbs and as nouns,
and only primary derivatives were formed from them; nor were its suflixes,
for the most part, more closely attached than those of the Scythian family.
In some of its constructions it was as bald as the Chinese, and even more am-
biguous. It agrees with the Indo-European and Semiiic languages in distin-
guishing gender in its forms; no other human languages do this. There are
apparent signs of relationship betweeu Egyptian and Semitic which lead many
112 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. a |

scholars to entertaifi the confident opinion that the two descend from a com-
mon ancestor; this, however, is as yet by no means to be regarded as certain.
Many of the tongues of Northern Africa, and the Hottentot and Bushman, in
South Africa, are also asserted to exhibit signs of an ultimate connexion with
Egyptian. Excepting those dialects which are cither clearly Semitic, or
claimed to be of kindred with Semitic or Egyptian, Africa is filled with a —
great variety of tongues, forming a distinct family. They are, in a certain ©
way, rich in forms, and have some striking and peculiar traits. ‘The use of
preformatives characterizes them; a root never appears without a prefix of
some kind, and the prefixes are varied to accord with that of the dominant
word in the sentence, producing a kind of syntactical alliteration.

‘There remains for consideration, of the great families of human speech, only
that one which occupies the American continent. It is too ‘vast and varied to
be dealt with here in any detail. Isolation of communities and the consequent
indefinite separation into dialects have been carried in America to an extreme.
Moreover, there is a peculiar changeableness of material, hard to explain and
account for, which causes that two branches of a tribe which have been sep-
arated but a brief time speak languages which are mutually unintelligible,
and of which it is even hard to trace the relationship. But it is believed that
a fundamental unity lies at the base of all the infinite variety of American
dialects, from the Arctic Circle to Cape Horn; whatever their differences of
material, there is a single type or plan on which their forms are developed and
their constructions made. It is called the incorporative, or polysynthetic. It
tends to the aggregation of the parts of the sentence into one great word; to
the substitution of an intricate compound for the phrase with its separated and
balanced numbers.

No linguistic evidence of any real value has yet been adduced going to show
the affinity of American with Asiatic language, nor has the time yet come for
_a fruitful discussion of the question. ‘To make a bare and immediate compari-
son of the modern dialects of the two continents is altogether futile. When
the comparative philology of the separate families is fully worked out, from
the collation and analysis of all attainable material in each, if we shall find
ourselves in a position to judge and decide the qu@8tion of Asiatic derivation,
we shall have reason.to rejeice at it. What we have to do at present is sim-
ply to learn all that we possibly can about the aboriginal languages of this
continent ; our national honor and duty are peculiarly concerned in the work,
toward which, with too much reason, European scholars accuse us of indiffer-
ence and inefticiency. The Smithsonian Institution has recently taken up the
subject, under special advantages and with laudable zeal, and all Americans
should countenance and assist its efforts by every means in their power.

Before closing this cursory and imperfect review of the great families of hu-
man language, we should glance at one or two isolated languages or groups,
hitherto unclassified. One of the most noteworthy is the Basque, spoken on
the borders of France and Spain by the representatives of the ancient Iberi-
ans, and perhaps the scanty relic of a race earlier than the irruptions of the
Seythian and Indo-European tribes. Another is the Etruscan, of Italy, saved
in scanty inscriptions, which offer an unsolved and probably insoluble problem
to the linguistic student. In the Caucasian mountains, again, appears a little
knot of idioms which have defied the efforts of scholars to connect them with
other known forms of speech. Each family has, as may be seen even from
our hasty sketch, its own peculiar characteristics, which distinguish it from
every other. By such sweeping classifications of them as into monosyllabic
and polysyllabic, into isolating, agglutinative, and inflectional, or the like, little
or nothing is gained. ‘True classification must be founded on a consideration

* : .

od PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 113
»

of the whole complicate structure of the languages classified ; it must, above

all, be historical, holding together, and apart from others, those groups which
give evidence of genetic derivation from a common original.

~ On reviewing this division of the families of language, any one will be struck
by its non-agreement with the divisions based on physical characteristics. This
brings up the important question as to the comparative value of linguistic and
physical evidence of race. A reconciliation of their seeming discordance must
'* sought and finally found, for the naturalist and linguist are both trying to
ork out the same problem—the actual genealogical history of human races—
and they cannot disregard each other’s results. Their harmonious agreement
can only be the result of the greatly advanced and perfected methods and con-
clusions of both. Nothing more can be attempted here than to note certain
general considerations bearing upon the subject.

In the first place, language is no certain evidence of descent. As was shown
in the first lecture, language is not inherited, but learned, and often from
teachers of other blood than the learner. Nor does mixture of language prove
mixture of race. ‘The Latin part of our vocabulary was brought us by men of
‘Germanic descent, who learned it from Celts and Germans, and they from a
mixed mass of Italians. ‘These defects of linguistic evidence have always to
be borne in mind by those who are drawing conclusions in linguistic ethnology.
But their effect must not be exaggerated ; nor must it be overlooked that physi-
cal evidence has quite as important defects. The kind and amount of modifi-
eation which external circumstances can introduce into a race-type is as yet
undetermined. Many eminent naturalists are not unwilling to allow that all
existing differences among men may be the effect of processes of variation, and that
the hypothesis of different origins is at least unnecessary. Hence, as a race
may change its language, and not its physical type, it may also do the con-
trary. Language may retain traces of mixture undiscoverable otherwise. Lan-
guage may more readily and surely than physiology distinguish mixed from
transitional types. In many respects linguistic evidence has a greatly superior
practical value ; differences of language are much the more easily apprehended,
described, and recorded. Individual differences, often obscuring race-differences
of a physical characte1, disappear in language. Testimony coming down from
remote times is much more accessible and authenticable in language. Discord
between the two, or question as to relative rank, there is none, or ought to be
none. Both are equally legitimate and necessary modes of approaching the
solution of the same difficult and, in its details, insoluble problem, man’s origin
and history. Each has its notable limitations, and needs all the aid it can get
from the other and from recorded history to supply its defects and control its
conclusions. But the part which language has to perform in constructing the
ethnological history of the race must be much the greater. In laying down
grand outlines, in settling ultimate questions, the authority of physiology may
be superior ; but the filling up of details, and the conversion of a barren elassi-
fication into a history, must be mainly accomplished by linguistic science.

Another important question is, what has the study of language to say re-
specting the unity of the human race? This question can already be pretty
confidently answered, but the answer must be a negative one only. Linguistic
science can never hope to give any authoritative decision upon the subject. To
show that it can never pretend to prove the ultimate variety of human races is
very easy. It regards language as something which has grown by degrees out
of scanty rudiments. It cannot assume that these rudiments were preggeed
by any other agency than that which made their after combinations. It cannot
say how long a time may have been occupied in the formation of reots, or how
long the monosyllabic stage may have lasted; and it must confess it altogether

8s

~ 7
* »
J
sr

"on the negative side. If it may possibly be hoped that their connexion will

+ * » eet ou i “4. in ss . ‘o)
114 _ © PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SOIE
7 ° ; 2 “« 4 y te
possible that an original man race should have separated into tribes 2
the formation of any lan e so distinctly developed, and of such fixed forms,. —
as should leave traceable fragments in the later dialects of the ee por-
tions. Among all the varieties of human speech there are no differences which
are not fully explainable upon the hypothesis of unity of descent. iy
That the linguistic student also cannot bear positive testimony in tater
such descent is equally demonstrable, although not by so direct an argument
There is here no theoretic impediment in the way, buta practical one. It mig
be hoped that traces of an original unity would be discoverable in all pa of
human language; only examination could show that such is not the cas |
investigation, however incomplete, has already gone far enough to le no
reasonable expectation of making the discovery.
The processes of linguistic change alter the constituent parts of language in —
every manner and to every degree, producing not only utter difference between
words which were originally one, but also apparent correspondence between
those which are radically unconnected. There are no two languages on the
face of the earth between which a diligent search may not bring to light resem-
blances which are easily proved by a little historical study to be no signs of rela-
tionship, but only the result of accident. Now, the more remote the time of sepa-
ration of two related languages, the more numerous will be their differences, the
more scanty their resemblances ; hence, the more ambiguous will be the indica-
tions of their connexion; until finally a point is reached where it is impossible
to decide whether apparent coincidences which we discover are genuine, or only
accidental, and evidence of nothing; and, in the comparison of languages, that
point is actually reached. When we come to hold together the forms of speech
belonging to different families, the evidence fails us. It is no longer of force to
prove anything to our satisfaction. The families are composed of such lan-
euages as can be seen to have grown together out of the radical stage. If there
is community between them, it must lie in their roots alone; and to give the
comparison this form is virtually to abandon it as hopeless. To trace out the
roots of any family, in their ultimate form and primitive signification, is a task
of the very gravest difficulty. By the help of the great variety and an-
tiquity of its dialects, and especially by the Sanscrit, the task can be somewhat
satisfactorily accomplished for the Indo-European tongue; but the Semitic
roots, as already explained, are of the most perplexingly developed form. Radi-
cal correspondences among the great branches of the Scythian family are hardly
sufficient to prove the ultimate relationship of those branches; and to hope that,
in the blind confusion of Malay, African, and American dialects,* linguistic
analysis will ever arrive at a confident recognition of their primitive germs, is
altogether futile. Accidental correspondences are, if anything, more likely to ap-
pear among roots than in the forms of developed speech. Authorities are much
divided upon the question whether the Indo-European and Semitic families are
proved connected, with a decided preponderance of the best and safest opinions

i

yet be established, with the help of evidence coming from outside of language,
the same hope cannot be entertained as to the connexion of either of these with
any other family, and yet less as to the inter-connexion of all the families.
We come, finally, to consider the origin of language. We may claim that
the problem has been greatly simplified by what has already been proved as to
the history of speech. Did we find the latter everywhere and always a com-
‘pletely developed and complicated apparatus, we might be tempted to despair of
explaining its origin otherwise than by the simple hypothesis of a miraculous
agency. But we have seen that the wealth of the noblest tongues comes by
slow accumulation from an early poverty. We have only to satisfy ourselves how
men should have become possessed, at first, of the seanty and hum bieens of
language. And, in the first place, there is no reason for supposing them

q

i
f

; . .
: ” 4 : *
e , * P
be : vi ‘ae : ; oy be hal i " ; ‘ ae
is Me PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC ScIENcE. «115
Na ee . |
generated by any other.agency than that which is active in their after combi-

nation and development; namely, by the conscious exertion of man’s natural
powers, by eee of the faculties conferred upon him for the satisfaction of the
necessities implanted in him. In this way, and in no other, is language a di-
vine gift. It is divine in the sense that man’s nature, with all its capacities and
mar ents, is a divine creation. It is human, in that it is a product of that
ire, in its normal workings. ; ,
is highly important that we make clear to ourselves what is the directly
mpelling foree to the production of language. It is not any internal and
necessary impulse to expression on the part of thought itself, although this is
ry often maintained; it is the desire of communication. One man alone would
never form a language. ‘Two children could not grow up together without ac-
quiring some means of exchange of thought. Language is not thought, nor
thought language ; noris there a mysterious and indissoluble connexion between
the two, so that we cannot conceive of the existence of the one apart from the
other. But thought would be awkward, feeble, and indistinct, without the
working apparatus afforded it in language. ‘The mind, deprived of such an in-
 strument, would be, as it were, lamed and palsied. The possession of ideas,
cognitions, reasonings, deductions, imaginings, hopes, cannot be denied to the
deaf and dumb, even when untaught any substitute for spoken language; nor,
indeed, even to the lower animals, in greatly inferior and greatly varying degree.
Thought is anterior to language and independent of it. It does not require ex-
pression in order to be thought. The incalculable advantage which it derives
from its command of speech, though a necessary implication in the gift of
speech to man, comes incidentally, growing out of that communication which
man must and will have with his fellow. A word, then, is not a thought; it
isthe sign of thought, arbitrarily selected and conventionally agreed upon.
It is the fashion to cry down the use of the word conventional as applied to
language; but, rightly understood, it precisely expresses the fact. It does not
imply the holding of a convention and formal discussion, but the acceptance and
adoption into use, on the part of a community, of something proposed by an in-
dividual ; and in no other way, as has been shown above, does anything in
language originate; nor didit, back to the very beginning. Every root-syllable
was first used in its peculiar sense by some one, and became language by the
assent of others. ;
These considerations relieve the remaining part of our problem of much of its
difficulty. Under the outward impulse to communication, thought tends irre-
sistibly toward expression: it will have expression, and, were it destitute of
articulate speech, it would have sought and found other means—gestures, atti-
tudes, looks, written signs, any or all of these. But the voice was the appointed
and provided means of supplying this great want, and no race of men, accord-
ingly, is found unprovided with articulate speech. It remains to inquire how
men should have discovered what the voice was meant for, and have applied it
to its proper use. Several theories have been proposed in explanation of this.
One, the onomatopoetic, supposes that the first names of objects and acts were
generated by imitation of the cries of animals and the noises of dead nature;
_ another, the interjectional, regards the natural sounds which we utter when in
.a state of excited feeling, our exclamations, as the beginnings of speech ; another
compares man’s utterance with the ringing of natural substances when struck,
and holds’ that man has an instinctive faculty for giving expression to the
rational conceptions of his mind. The last of these is believed to be destitute
of all value, as grounded in unsound theory, and supported by nothing in our
experience or observation. The other two are so far true that it must be granted
that exclamations and imitated sounds helped men to realize that they had in
_ their voices that which was capable of being applied to express the movements
of their spirits. But the study of language brings to light no interjectional

4%

=~

ie

,
er
,
jee eae q
a 1th 4 PRINCIPLES OF LINGUISTIC SCIENCE. 4

. +

roots; and onomatopoetic ones, although sometimes met with, are rare, at least
in the better known families of language, and in great part of late formation.
Evidence does not show, and theory does not require, that the actual beginnings
‘ of speech should have been of either character. The process of root-making
was in much the greatest part a free and arbitrary one; it was, as we may with
especial propriety call it, a tentative process, a devisal and experimental pro-
posal of signs, to be thenceforth associated by a community with conceptions
which pressed for representation. Objective and absolute connexion between
sound and sense there was none, except in words of onomatopoetic formation ;
of a subjective connexion, a geiding analogy, we ge catch occasional glimpses,
or seem to catch them; they are too subtle and evanescent to be believed in.
with confidence, nor have we ground for suspecting their wide occurrence.
There is thus enough of obscurity, of uncertainty, resting upon the earliest pe-
riod of linguistic growth ; but of mystery, hardly any ; the process is not beyond

our ken, although its details are out of our knowledge. ‘3
Of all animals, man is the only one that has proved himself capable of origi-
nating a language. For this, the general reason, that man’s endowments are
da, vastly higher than those of the inferior races, is the best that can be given.
When philosophers shall have determined precisely wherein lies man’s supe-
_‘Mority, they will at the same time have explained his exclusive possession of
speech. If, however, it were necessary to say in what mode of action lay that
deficiency of power in the lower animals which, more than any other, put lan-
guage out of their reach, we should incline to maintain that it was the power of
distinct reflection on the facts of consciousness ; of analyzing impressions, and
setting their parts so clearly before the internal sense as to perceive that each
. is capable of a distinct sign. Many animals come so near to a capacity for lan-
guage as to be able to understand and be directed by it, when addressed to them
by man; nor is their condition without analogy with that of very young chil-
f dren; whose power of comprehending language is developed much earlier and
. more rapidly than their power of employing it. It may well be questioned
whether, as regards capacity for speech, the distance from the unimpressible
* oyster, for instance, to the intelligent dog, is not vastly greater than that from

the dog to the lowest and least cultivable races of men. ek
: ye
-
Pn «
*
‘xe * 4
:
r 4
~ SY

3
¥

. ' 3

‘ MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE,
i —_—+—— > wy
ee, BY M. ELIE DE BEAUMONT,

ERPETUAL SECRETARY OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES,

a

TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C, A. ALEXANDER,

-

To this Academy no species of scientific renown is alien; and if such men as
la Pérouse, d’Entrecasteaux, Baudin, Dumont d’Urville, have disappeared
from the stage of the world without having been numbered in its ranks, it was
because an inauspicious destiny arrested their career. Their place here was
already marked. To have obtained it would have been to them, next to the
consciousness of duty fulfilled, the highest of gratifications. To you, gentle-
men, the privilege of crowning their memorable labors by your suftrages would
have been a subject of the most just self-congratulation. Those labors death,
which has snatched away their authors, has not withdrawn from your domain.

“It is still grateful to you to extol them, and your committee has concurred with
me in thinking that I could prefer no better claim to your favorable attention
than by attempting to retrace, on this occasion, the life of a colleague who knew
how to obtain and to justify all your sympathies, and whose name invariably
recalls those of the heroes of hydrography we have named, of whom he was,
with better fortunes and not less daring, the companion, the rival, or the master.

Charles-Frangois Beautemps-Beaupré was born August 6, 1766, at Neuville
au Pont, a village situated one league north of Sainte Menehold, in that part
of Champagne which now forms the department of the Marne. His father was
an unpretending tiller of the soil, and the young Francois, who seemed destined
to cultivate, in his turn, the rather prosaic fields of that worthy country, passed
his first years in youthful sports on the pleasant hills which, branching from
the Argonne, agreeably diversify the banks of the Aisne. His constitution,
naturally robust, and strengthened by country exercise, received on one occa-
sion a severe shock. While heedlessly playing with the rope of the parochial
bell he fell with violence, and sustained such injuries of the head as to make
trepanning necessary. ‘I'he operation was no doubt skilfully performed, for
the young sufferer became, with advancing years, a man of tall stature, of a

exalted faculties which won him a place in this assemblage. I have not been
able to recover the name of the modest provincial surgeon to whom, under
Providence, our colleague was indebted for life and intelligence, and who, per-
haps, never knew the full value of the head he had been instrumental in re-
storing.

M. Beautemps-Beaupré passed, indeed, only the years of childhood at his’
native village. Among his relations was an eminent geographer, M. Jean Nico-
las Buache, the head of a geographical establishment derived by collateral in-
heritance from the family of Delisle—a family wholly devoted to science, and
known, through more than a century, for its connexion with almost every pub-

“ication relating to geography, astronomy, and the marine. M. Buache, visit-

iE r ah "

noble and expressive mien, and retained, for nearly eighty years, the use of the —
¥

“"

.

— Arse 3 3 ” + Cee
} ’ > Se és es

a

‘7

=
oI

118 ‘ MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. i %

a * pf: r 7 “>

Lt % * ¥

tenance of his young relative. He was pleased at the idea of associating with
himself a docile intelligence which might be trained to the conduct o

. > a ;
ing Neuville au Pont about the year 1776, was struck with the wesc coun-
monial business, and readily induced the little Beaupré to accompany him +

Paris. Thus the latter found himself installed, at the age of ten years, in the
midst of the hereditary traditions of a house which had become, in some sort, —

the focus of geographical studies. He was charged with the arrangement and

preservation of those charts, atlases, and globes with which we have most of us

been occupied at some period of our lives. To this labor, which would have

repelled the generality of young persons, he gave himself with unbounded de- —

votion. He lived among his dear maps, assorting, adjusting, studying them;
hence he was not long in mastering all that was necessary for understanding
them. His vocation stood revealed to him; nor, with such innate tastes, could
his eventual accession to this Academy be a matter of doubt, provided that for
him, also, the condition stipulated in the distich of La Fontaine should be
realized :

‘* Little fish to large will grow,
If God shall only life bestow.”

M. Buache, gratified at the manifestation of so happy a turn, afforded every
facility in his power for its development. .

The attention of this learned geographer was by no means confined to the
commerce of his establishment. He had assisted in the education of the three
princes who became, successively, Louis XVI, Louis XVIII, and Charles X,
and maintained with the first of these monarchs, himself a distinguished geog-

~ rapher, relations of confidence founded ona similarity of tastes and studies. It
is to be presumed that he contributed much towards shaping the’views of the
~ excellent King in relation to the expedition of la Perouse, and being intrusted,
jointly with M. Fleurieu, with the preparation of instructions for. the voyage—
instructions strongly impressed with the benevolent spirit of Louis X VI—it
became necessary for him to execute in the short space of three months a nu-
merous series of charts. Naturally he turned for assistance in this labor to his

young coadjutor, with whose talent for this species of design he had been so ©

much delighted; and, quite as naturally, the youthful enthusiast, in whom
there was much more than the material for a draughtsman, grew enamored,
as he proceeded, not only of the charts but of the expedition, and eagerly
pressed to be allowed to embark on one of the frigates. Happily for himself
and for science, M. Buache decided that, at the age of eighteen, there was yet
too much for him to learn to make it advisable that he should engage in such
an enterprise, and thus prevented his taking part in that fatal expedition from
which no one was destined ever to return.

The young Beaupré had not, however, escaped the notice of M. de Fleurieu,
and was transferred as engineer in 1785 from the department of the Marine, in
which he had heretofore served under the orders of M. Buache, to that of the
Controls, where, in immediate subordination to M. de Fleurieu, he was required
to assist in the execution of the charts of the Baltic Neptune.

Meanwhile the expedition commanded by la Perouse had sailed from Brest,
August 1, 1785. After having traversed the coasts of the Pacific ocean in all
directions, and moored in the harbor of Botany Bay, it had again put to sea,
March 10, 1788, in order to prosecute the route marked in its instructions.

- From that time nothing had been héard of it, and apprehensions for its safety

.

&

began to be entertained which were unhappily too well founded.
The National Assembly having petitioned the King to despatch armed ves-
sels in search of the distinguished navigator, two new frigates, Ja Recherche

and U agerance, were designated to sail, under the orders of Rear-Admiral _
ntrecasteaux, upon this laudable mission; and this time M. Beau-

a

Bruny d’
a , oe

e patri- ©

o7)
‘
S.
y

|

i
P
falta ay roc a

* :
4. : e , Rh os
- ‘z MEMOIR OF ©. F. BEATEN ES eae 19" &
: od : §
< at 4 ~ ’
~_ temps- eaupré obtained the favor of accompanying the e He was «|

July 31, 1791, under the title of first hydrographical engineer, to
e la Recherche, commanded by the admiral in person, and reported

imself at Brest, whither he had repaired in company with M. de la Billardiere,
the botanist of the expedition, and destined himself also to become a member
of this Academy. ‘

The two vessels sailed September 29, 1791, at which time Beaupré was
twenty-five years of age. By his labors during six years in the compilation
fete Neptune of the Baltic sea, he had thus early become an experienced
chartographer, and the expedition now departing offered the happiest occasion
for the application of his talents in this line; for the admiral, being about to
explore with great minuteness all the coasts where traces of la Perouse might
be expected to be found, had received orders to determine at the same time their
hydrography with all possible compactness.

After having doubled the Cape of Good Hope, the expedition passed in #
sight of the isle of- Amsterdam, coasted at a distance the southern shores of
New Holland, and came to anchor towards the southeast point of Van Die-
men’s Land, at the then desert entrance of the river on which now stands the
city of Hobarttown. It next penetrated into the Pacific ocean, followed the
western coast of New Caledonia and the northern of New Guinea, passed to
the northwest of Amboyna and Timor, to the west of New Holland, explored
in detail the south coast of that vast region, and, after having thus made its
entire circuit, again cast anchor, January 21, 1793, in the south part of Van
Diemen’s Land.

Having completed, during the finest month of the austral summer, import-
ant hydrographical labors commenced the previous year, and particularly the | |
survey of the straits of d’Entrecasteaux, which separate the isle of Bruny from %
the main land, the expedition again sailed, February 27, and passed anew into .
the wide Pacific. Directing its course towards all the points where la Perouse
could be supposed to have touched or to have been driven, after his departure ~
from Botany Bay five years before, the expedition visited Tongataboo, one of =
the Friendly islands, and once more shaped its course towards New Caledonia,
which was now reached from the northwest. Some idea of the incidents and

. sae : > ae
perils of these courses may be conveyed by a few passages of the admiral’s
narrative: ‘‘On the eve of our arrival at New Caledonia, April 17, 1793, it
blew a hard gale; the atmosphere was thick, but not so dark as to induce me
to lose a night off the Cape. I gave orders to proceed under easy sail. About
three in the morning it grew very dark, and the cries of numerous birds were
heard near the frigate, an almost certain indication at that hour, of the neighbor-
hood of land. Although day was not far off, M. Merite, officer of the watch,
prudently decided to bring to, and scarcely had objects become distinguishable,
when a low coast presented itself to view; an instant after it was discovered’ ~
to be surrounded with breakers on which we should certainly have struck but
for the precaution just mentioned; for we had been making two leagues an
hour under topsails alone, closely reefed. This dangerous ledge was recon-
noitred, and a special draught of it carefully executed. Its length from north
to south is from nine to eleven miles, and its breadth, east and west, seven to
eight. We saw to the east of this reef two small wooded islands, with a third
larger midway between them: these we have named the Beaupre islands.” *

Te
*The claims of M. Beautemps-Beaupré to a distinction of this kind were incidentally
recognized by the distinguished and lamented explorer, Sir John Franklin. Being on a visit "4
to Paris, just before his departure on the expedition which was destined to so fatal a result,
he called on M. Beautemps-Beaupré, and, speaking of Van Diemen’s Land, of which Sir
John had been governor, learned from the lips of our colleague that the latter had been the
first explorer of ‘s A on which now rises Hobarttown, the capital of the island. <Eow : *

2
aa " uw
2 4 2 4
Se, fe — '

7

ww

ton

)

2

120 MEMOIR OF Gi F,. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. ' ty

When his name was thus conferred, M. Beautemps-Beaupré had been daily
prosecuting his labors for more than twenty months under the eyes of the
admiral and his oflicers, and the testimonial may, therefore, be regarded as the
more deliberate and honorable.

“The same day,” continues the admiral, “at half after 1 o’clock, we deseried
New Caledonia, and in two hours were a mile distant from the reef on the eastern
coast of this great island, which seemed to be bordered by it, as the western
coast had been ascertained to be in 1792. * * * * As the entrance of
the harbor of Balade, where I proposed to come to anchor, was only marked by
an interruption of the reef which borders the coast, we followed this reef closely
in order not to miss the opening. We reached the pass by 2 o’clock, and a
favorable tack gave us hopes of gaining the anchorage, when it was signalled
that the other frigate, 2’ Esperance, had struck.”

Happily the imperilled vessel was safely extricated, and the two frigates finally
cast anchor very nearly at tlre spot where Captain Cook had done in 1774.

«The naturalists of the expedition repaired, April 25, to the neighboring
mountains, and M. Beaupré ascended with them in hopes of discovering the
reefs with which the channels of Balade are bestrown, and of fixing their position.
The sea was discernible to the east, west, and north, and the isles of Balabra,
Reconnaissance, and many other points which had been entered in the maps
of 1792 were recognized. The positions of these were determined by M.

‘Beaupré with reference to the observatory of Balade, with the view of con-
necting the trigonometrical operations of this year with those of the preceding
one. From the top of these mountains the shelf which borders the other side
of New Caledonia was perceived, and an interruption distinguished, which, after
renewed observations, seemed to correspond with that discovered the previous
year in visiting the western coast.” .
The expedition left the roads of Balade May’9, 1793, and soon after encoun-
tered the dangerous reefs which stretch to the NW. of New Caledonia; these
having been examined but imperfectly by Cook, have received the name of the
reefs of d’ Entrecasteaux. ‘Twice, at the break of day, were the ships of the
last-named navigator found to have so closely approached this barrier, that
there was barely room for the evolution by which they were extricated. Direct-
ing his course northeastwardly towards the island of Santa Cruz, the admiral
gave the name of /a Recherche to an island in the vicinity of the former, whose
latitude and longitude were determined to be, within but a few minutes, 11° 40/
south, and 164° 25’ east. During the numerous courses made by the vessels
in the archipelago of Santa Urcz, M. Beautemps-Beaupré, favored by fine
weather, succeeded in fixing the position of a multitude of points, as well on
the principal island as its accessories.

According to the method which he had adopted for making his observations, ,
and which has since become of general use, he first made at each station a :
draught of the coast, in which he indicated by letters or numbers not only the ~
most remarkable objects, but wrote the measures of the angles observed, the
bearings of the points with respect to one another, the estimate of distances, &c.
The draughts, on which were to be written the results of the observations made >

much do I regret,” exclaimed Sir John, ‘‘ that I was ignorant of the cireumstance! Ishould
have bestowed your name on the finest portion of the city.”’

aptain Flinders, who, in 1801-1803, conducted an expedition ‘‘for the purpose of com-
pleting the discovery of that vast country” to which he gave the name of Terra Australis,
(afterwards changed to Australia,) and who published an account of his voyage in two 4to.
volumes, accompanied by an atlas, bears testimony, as wellin notes engraved upon the maps
as in passages of the text, to the accuracy of the labors of our colleague. In the introduction
to the work it is said: ‘The charts of the bays, ports, and arms of the sea at the southeast
end of Van Diemen’s Land, constructed in this expedition by M. Beautemps-Beaupré and
assistants, appear to combine scientific accuracy and minuteness of detail, with an uncom-
mon degree of neatness in the execution. They contain some of the finest specimens of
marine surveying, perhaps, ever made in a new country.”

£ ;
;

ie ae | |
ae. MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 121
’ ? ; xe :

on board, deal not be taken with too much rapidity, for it was necessary that

the ship should not materially change its place during the time of the opera-

tion. ‘The principal operations which serve as a foundation for the charts con-
structed by M. Beaupré are such as were executed either at midday, or simul-
taneously with the observations of horary angles; that is to say, at such times
of each day as the position of the vessel was determined by astronomical ob-
servations and the chronometer. On these occasions he assembled around him
the greatest possible number of observers, and he had found or formed a great
many among the officers of the frigate. Just one minute before taking the
observations he made a sketch of the coast under view, beginning with those
parts of it which, being most remote, would undergo least change of outline by
reason of the movement of the ship; then, precisely at the moment when the
astronomical observations were taken, he measured the angular distance be-
tween the object which he had designated to his assistants as the point of de-
parture and one of the remarkable places of the coast, while each of the as-
sistants measured the angular distance of the same point of departure from one
of the other objects embraced in the survey. The results of these simultaneous
observations were afterwards transferred to the sketch which had been made
of the outline of the land. All the angular measures were taken with Borda’s

_ repeating circle.

When the sun was not too high above the horizon, one of the observers
measured the distance of that body from one of the remarkable points of the
coast; by means of the heights of the sun observed at the same moment by
M. de Rossel, and from the distance measured, M. Beaupré obtained the astro-
nomical bearing of that point, whence he deduced the bearing of all the points
between which angles had been taken.

Two compasses were always directed, during the observations, on the place
chosen as a point of departure for the angles, and the mean of the bearings
given by those instruments was transcribed in the collection of notes, and this
whether an astronomical bearing had been obtained ornot. In the first case the
magnetic indication served to show the variation of the needle, and in the second
to supply, though imperfectly, the absence of an astronomical observation. If
circumstances, which, however, occurred but rarely, prevented the co-operation
of a sufficient number of observers to take simultaneously the angles of all the
remarkable points necessary to be determined, M. Beaupré arranged several
circles of reflection, so that each observer might promptly take two or three
angles, without being obliged to write them on the spot; and these observations,
made with a rapidity proportionate to the expertness of the observer, were
found to agree almost as exactly as those made simultaneously.

M. Beaupré, who drew the chart with as much facility as exactness, found a
marked advantage in embodying the results observed as promptly as possible,
for he had then all the circumstances of the observations present to his mind.
It was not seldom that he was enabled in this way to detest and remedy inad-
vertencies committed in writing the angles measured. The precision of his
graphic constructions ever rendered it practicable for him to verify, and some-
times to correct, with great probability, the positions of the ship, determined

“several times a day by astronomical observations, combined with the indica-

tions of chronometers and the estimate of courses.

The means of verification resulted, in part, from the fact that the observa-
tions of each station gave him a series of visual lines, springing essentially from
the same point, and forming known angles, whether with one another or with
the astronomic meridian, or at least with the magnetic meridian, itself deter-
mined by an observation made at nearly the same time. They resulted, more-
over, from the circumstance that all the visual lines directed from different stations
on the same object, such as a cape or a mountain, must, on the draught, intersect
one another at the representation of that object. When, at the first trial, these did

*

i
4

122 MEMOIR OF C, F, BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. ¥
not meet, a series of approximations tending to modify in an admissible degree
the position of the ship at the different stations sufficed to establish the neces-—
Sary junction. ‘The approximations in question might be made with still more
rigor by calculation, and one of our most scientific hydrographers, M. de Tessan,
has even shown that the method of least squares is here applicable ;* but M. —
Beaupré adhered generally to the graphic method, which he employed with as |
much sagacity as precision.

The application of this rigorous method fixes the position of the principal
points of the chart about to be constructed, as the tops of mountains, capes, &e.
The details, such as the outline of coasts, course of rivers, &c., are afterwards
described with such degree of precision as time permits; and when a sojourn
of some duration renders it practicable to add the soundings taken at sea, as
was the case in regard to the straits of d’Entrecasteaux and other parts of the
coasts of Van Diemen’s Land, the positions of the points of sounding are fixed
by reference to the principal points determined by the bearings, in accordance
with the methods which will be presently indicated when we arrive at the
hydrographic surveys of the coasts of France. :

The bearings taken from the 19th to the 23d May, in the archipelago of Santa
Cruz, enabled M. Beaupré to give a remarkable proof of his skill in applying
these processes, which were then new. Faithful to his method of constructing,
day by day, the chart of those parts of coasts which he would not again see, he
devoted the night of the 21st to describing the details of. the south coast of the
island of Santa Cruz; that of the 22d was similarly occupied with the north
coast; and, the ships sailing on the 23d for the Solomon islands, he applied
himself,-as soon as the land was lost sight of, to the definitive reduction of his
chart. ‘This, like all the rest belonging to the voyage of d’Entrecasteaux, was
constructed on a scale of three lines for one minute of the equator; and as it
presented, for the discussion of which we have been speaking, nearly all the
cases to be met with in practice, M. Beaupré has caused it to be engraved in the
19th plate of the atlas, with all his lines of construction, as an example of his
manner of operating, and it is here that he has explained his method with de-
tails at which we have only been able to give a cursory glance. They may be
seen in the appendix relative to this subject at the end of the first volume of

_ the voyage of d’Entrecasteaux, an appendix which has become the vade-mecum,
and, if | may so speak, the catechism of the constructors of marine charts.

In reducing to rule, and in practicing his method, M. Beaupré fulfilled the
most cherished wish of the scientific hydrographers, who, at the close of the
eighteenth century, employed themselves with the means of giving to nautical
science all the precision of which it is susceptible. Borda, after having placed
in the hands of navigators the repeating circle of which they still make ,_
use, had recommended its employment in preference to the compass, which
till then was exclusively relied on for surveys executed at sea. Flurieu had
equally recommended astronomic surveys. For naturalizing these scientific
processes in the practice of hydrography, it was requisite that some engineer of
a peculiar aptitude should devote himself with energy and perseverance to the
application of the new instruments and rigorous geometric methods adapted to
the accurate measurement of angles. M. Beaupré proved fully equal to this
honorable mission, and, thanks to his unceasing efforts, the voyage of d’Entre-
casteaux inaugurated the opening of a new era—that of precise hydrography.

Like all other branches of human knowledge, hydrography has been advanced |
by degrees. After the invention of the compass, so far surpassed at a later
stage by mew instruments, the discoveries of Christopher Columbus and of

Vasco de Gama gave ideas a wholly new direction. Subsequently the adven-

* See Voyage autour du Monde, par le frégate Venus, commandée par M. Abel Dupetit
Thouars: Physique, par M. de Tessan, t. v., p. 288. ss

po a)
+ ‘

R ! :

en MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE: 123

+

turous circumnavigations of the Magellans, Mendafias, Drakes, Tasmans, and
Dampiers, made known the principal outlines of the two oceans, but with very
imperfect exactness, as may be perceived from a glance at the old globes which
are still of frequent occurrence in Paris. That, according to the happy expres-
sion of M. Villemain, was the heroic age of the navigation of discovery ; the
modern Argonauts went forth in their search for the golden fleece with an ardor
little favorable to systematic exploration, and which yet did not prevent them
from overlooking the rich auriferous deposits of California and Australia.

Towards the middle of the eighteenth century, after Buffon had published his
Natural History, the taste for voyages was revived under a form even then
much more scientific. In the course of a few years we see Byron, Carteret,
Wallis, traverse the Pacific ocean, and make the tour of the world. Cook is
sent to Tahiti to observe, June 3, 1769, the passage of Venus over the dise of
the sun. He makes two other important voyages, and after having traversed
the Pacific in all directions, and penetrated into the frozen regions of both poles,
falls in 1779 beneath the weapons of the natives of the Sandwich islands. Cook
remains the principal figure and characteristic of this period; but had fate per-
mitted the instructions given to la Perouse to have been completely carried
out, the voyage of this last would, perhaps, have afforded the best example of
what it was possible to accomplish with the hydrographic methods then in use.
These different enterprises made known almost all the lands and archipelagos
with which the ocean is strown, and furnished charts which already presented
their general form with a great degree of fidelity.

Last come the hydrographic voyages of precision. If the expedition of
d’Entrecasteaux offers the first example of them, the voyage of the Coguille,
executed under the command and published under the direction of our distin-
guished colleague, Captain Duperrey, must, perhaps, be regarded as the most
perfect type of this class of enterprises. To the same class belong the almost
too hazardous voyages of Sir John Ross among the ices of the antarctic pole,
and those not less daring of M. Dumont d’Urville.

The hydrographic study of the archipelago of Santa Cruz, which retained
around M. Beautemps-Beaupré some of the most skilful officers of the frigate,
did not so exclusively occupy the attention of Admiral d’Entrecasteaux and
other chiefs of the expedition as to divert their attention from the main objeet
of their mission, which was to seek for traces of la Perouse. They constantly
communicated with the shores, questioned the natives, examined the objects in
their possession, and observed, among other things, a piece of iron from the
hoop of a cask, set as a hatchet; but no one then suspected that there was here
a vestige of the expedition of la Perouse. ‘The admiral has minutely recorded
the reasons why no importance was attached to the circumstance.

Nevertheless the chart of the archipelago of Santa Cruz presents, in its SE.
portion, an island on which by a rather singular chance the admiral bestowed
the name of la Recherche, after that of his own frigate sent in search of la
Perouse. ‘“ We took the bearing of this island, says M. Beautemps-Beaupré,
for the first time from our point of station at 20 minutes after 9 o’clock, 19th
May, at a great distance, At noon, the same day, we again took its bearing,
and then lost sight of it.’ Situated at the southeast extremity of the archipel-
ago of Mendaiia, this island has been in like manner seen and lost sight of by
not a few other navigators in whose track it lay, and who little imagined that
la Perouse and his companions had paid with their lives for the honor of having
previously discovered it.

Thus two years earlier than d’Entrecasteaux, Captain Edwards, commanding
the English frigate Pandora, had discovered, August 13, 1791, this same island,
which he had named Pitt island, and had sailed around its southern shore with-
out suspecting that it concealed the remains of a world-renowned shipwreck.
Thirty years later, in 1823, Captain Duperrey, among whose officers was M.

4

at
124 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.

Dumont d’Urville, passed in the corvette Za Coquille, 2d and 3d August, at —
about half a degree to the W.SW. of the island. Strong eastwardly winds
prevented him from approaching nearer, but he took numerous bearings which
seryed to rectify the position of the island, and then obeyed without thought
the wind which bore him away from it, having himself no reason for supposing
that this obscure spot presented any trace of the expedition of la Perouse.

Yet the veil was about to be withdrawn. Four years after, in December, 1827,
and January, 1828, M. Dumont d’Urville was lying with the Astrolabe in the

ort of Hobarttown, situated in those parts of Van Diemen’s Land which MM.
d’Entrecasteaux and Beautemps-Beaupré had surveyed with so much care while
they were still desert. Here reports reached him, vague indeed, and even con-
tradictory, respecting a surprising discovery made by Captain Dillon, com-
manding an English vessel, engaged in commerce. This mariner, it was said,
had acquired authentic information relative to the shipwreck of la Perouse, and
had even brought away the handle of a sword which he claimed to have belonged
to that celebrated navigator.

Notwithstanding the slight authority for these reports, M. Dumont d’Urville
thought himself justified in modifying the route which his instructions traced
for him. He touched, February 10, at 'Tikopia, where he found among the
natives a lascar named Joe, a sailor and native of Calcutta, who was the same
that had sold the sword-handle to Captain Dillon. ‘This man, after a little
hesitation, acknowledged that some years before he had gone to the Vanikoro
isles, which are no other than the group of la Recherche, where he had seen
many objects belonging to the vessels of la Perouse; that he had been then
told that two very aged whites were still alive, but he himself had not seen
them.

The next day, February 11, 1828, the Astrolabe sailed for the Vanikoro
islands, situated, according to the natives, about forty leagues W.NW. from
Tikopia. The vessel came to anchor, February 14, at the place of its
destination, and remained till the 17th of March. M. Dumont d’Urville, being
quite seriously indisposed, could not quit the corvette, which, besides, was, in
more than one respect, not considered in entire safety; but, after having inter-
rogated the natives, he despatched in succession several parties commanded by
responsible officers, with whom he associated his faithful surgeon, M. Gaimard,
whose recent death has been a new occasion of sorrow to the friends of science.

The chain of reefs which, at a distance of two or three miles, forms an im-
mense girdle around Vanikoro, closely approaches the southern coast near Paiou,
in front of a place called Ambi. Here it is but a mile off, and it was here that,
on a first visit, the native who preceded M. Jacquinot stopped his canoe in an
opening between the breakers, and made a sign to the Frenchmen to look be-
neath the water. There; at a depth of twelve or fifteen feet, were clearly
distinguishable, scattered here and there, and imbedded in corals, anchors,
cannons, bullets, and divers other objects, especially numerous sheets of lead ;
the wood had entirely disappeared. 'The position of the anchors seemed to in-
dicate that four of them had sunk with the ship, while two others had probably
been let go. On a second visit M. Guilbert succeeded in withdrawing from the
reefs the following objects : An anchor of about eighteen hundred pounds weight,
without a stock, much rusted and covered with a crust of corals apparently from
one to two inches in thickness; a cast cannon, likewise covered with corals, and
so much oxydized that the metal readily yielded under the hammer; a small
swivel of brass and a blunderbuss of copper in much better preservation, one
bearing on its trunnions 548 as its number, and 144 as its weight; the other
286 and 94 for its number and weight respectively, with no other marks ; a pig
of lead and large sheet of the same metal, together with some fragments of por-
celain. The remains of a kettle had been previously procured at Nama, a vil-

_ lage of the coast.

MEMOIR OF ©. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 125

The following is the amount of the information obtained from the natives :
About forty years previous to 1828, (which would carry us back to 1788, the date
of la Perouse’s disappearance, ) one morning, at the close of a very dark night,
during which the wind blew with violence from the SE., the islanders suddenly de-
scried on the southern coast, opposite the district of Tauema, an enormous pirogue,
stranded upon the reefs. It was rapidly demolished by the waves, and so en-
tirely disappeared that nothing was ever recovered from the wreck. Of the
persons who manned it a few only succeeded in escaping in a boat and gained
the shore. The following day, likewise in the morning, a second pirogue,
similar to the first, was discovered on the rocks before Paiou; where, in the
lee of the island, and less racked by the wind and sea, stranded moreover on a
level shelf of twelve or fifteen feet depth, it remained some time in its position
without being destroyed. ‘This, like the first, bore a white ensign. The
strangers who manned it landed at Paiou, where they established themselves
with those saved from the other ship, and immediately set about constructing
a small vessel from the fragments of the ship which had not gone down. ‘Their

task was completed in six or seven moons, and, as most, of the savages averred, -

all the strangers left the island. A few, however, declared that two remained
behind, but that these had not long survived.

M. de Fromelin, who also visited these shores in 1828, on the corvette la
Bayonnaise, and who had doubtless heard of the discovery of the English Cap-
tain Dillon, ascertained by examination the existence of the remains of the
French frigate on the reefs of Vanikoro.

It was a source of regret to M. Dumont d’Urville that he had not been able,
in 1828, to visit in person the place of the shipwreck; hence, when on a last
and memorable expedition he traversed anew the great ocean, he caused his
ships, the Astrolabe and the Zelée, to lie to, 6th November, 1838, near the
eef of the southern shore of Vanikoro. Landing in a sea too rough to admit

f stopping on the reef, he discovered a space cleared of trees, which appeared
to him to have been the spot where the parties from the wreck had pitched their
camp. Near it he observed a large cocoa-nut tree which had been deeply cut
around the trunk at two metres above the ground, besides other traces of the
use of the axe at a remote date, but beyond this he noticed no new indications.

The two frigates mounted with cannon, which could be none but those of la
Perouse, for no others were known to have disappeared in these seas, had

_ doubtless encountered, but with more adverse fortune, casualties similar to those

+

which befell the frigates of Admiral d’Entrecasteaux; of which one was near
being lost on the Beaupré islands at the time of their discovery, and the other
struck on a reef of zoophytes in the pass which forms an entrance to the haven
of Balade, but was fortunately extricated.

It was not an impossibility that the remnant of the crews of la Perouse should
be saved in the bark which they had constructed, and on which they put to sea
about the close of the year 1788. In fact, the English Captain Bligh, of the
ship Bounty, abandoned in the midst of the South sea by his revolted crew,
in an undecked shallop only twenty-two feet in length, passed, 18th May, 1789,
about fifty leagues to the south, and consequently almost within sight of the
isles of Vanikoro, and succeeded, May 29, in reaching the coast of New Holland
at the south entrance of Torres’ straits, whence they made their way to Cou-
pang, in the island of Timor. True it is, as apyears from the romantic narrative
of his adventures, that not to have perished a hundred times was due only to
the most astonishing good fortune. This fortune was denied to la Perouse and
his companions, though the boat in which they left Vanikoro but a few months
before was no doubt larger and better appointed than that of Bligh.

In similar circumstances many others have succeeded in being saved. In ~

_ reading the stirring recital of their various perils, we readily perceive that in the

fate of la Perouse there is nothing enigmatical; nor can the conclusion escape

ve
?

a

» .
126 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.

us that the expedition of d’Entrecasteaux must have been conducted with as
much ability as zeal, when we see on the chart of the archipelago of Santa

i Cruz, by M. Beautemps-Beaupré, two of the lines of survey directed by him

upon the island of la Recherche or Vanikoro, meet precisely at the spot where

- still lie beneath the waves the anchors and cannons of one of the frigates of the
illustrious and unfortunate navigator.

_ The ships of d’Entrecasteaux continued in sight of the island da Recherche
almost the whole of the 19th of May, 1793. Besides the instruments of the
, Survey, there was no deficiency of telescopes pointed towards the land, through
which, if signals after the European manner had been made, the piercing eyes
_of some of the mariners could not fail to have deseried them. But the survi-
vors of the wreck were doubtless long departed or dead when the expedition
passed, which was not till five years after the disaster. As to finding under
the waters of the sea the remains of the shipwreck, that would have been a
stroke of good fortune such as seems in general not to have attached to any-
thing connected with the expedition of la Perouse. Perhaps, however, d’En-
- trecasteaux might have had that melancholy satisfaction, if his officers had
paid more attention to the piece of iron, mounted as a hatchet, which was seen
in possession of the natives of Santa Cruz, for it had very possibly been pro-
cured from the remains of the wrecked frigates. But who will venture to say
that in their circumstances he would himself have divined it. +
However that may be, the hour had now come for the departure of the ex-
pedition. Sailing from Santa Cruz it pursued its prescribed course, and thus
separated itself more and more from the principal object of its research; yet,
thanks to the indefatigable zeal of M. Beautemps-Beaupré, it continued to ren-

der eminent service to hydrography. It traversed the archipelagos of the Solo-

mon and Louisiade groups, the coasts of New Britain and New Guinea; but a de-
plorable incident awaited it on these obscure shores. Admiral d’Entrecasteaux
died July 20, 1793, after a short illness which presented some of the symptoms of
scurvy. ‘The captain of the frigate /’ Esperance had already fallen a victim
to fever in the port of Balade. Very soon scurvy and dysentery had decimated
the crews which left France in 1791, while the loss among the higher officers
divided itself with impartial severity between Paris and Coblentz. Not that
there was any suspension of the surveys, which continued to produce excellent
charts, but a feeling prevailed that it was time to desist. The two frigates
were turned towards the island of Java, and entered the port of Sourabaya,
where the voyagers learned that the day of their arrival was not only October
27, 1793, but, at the same time, the 6th Brumaire of the year IT.

The expedition was here broken up and its different members returned sep-
arately to Europe. In his passage, M. Beautemps-Beaupré stopped some time
at the Cape of Good Hope. He had preserved the minutes of his charts, but
the fairly executed transcripts, with other scientific documents collected by the
expedition, were captured on the return by the English, by whom, however,
they were restored at a later period. Yet, to avoid the possibility of their dis-
appearance, he employed the time of his stay at the Cape in making a new
copy, which his friend M. Renard, chief surgeon of the expedition, undertook
to convey privately to the representative of France in the United States of
America. He himself embarked on a Swedish vessel, which landed him at Goth-
embourg, where M. Fournier, French consul, procured him the means of
re-entering his own country.

Arrived at Paris August 31, 1796, after an absence of five years, he rejoined
his excellent friend M. Fleurieu, and resumed, under his direction, the prepara-
tion of the Neptune of the Baltic sea, being at once named hydrographic engi-
neer of the first class, and under-keeper of the general depot of the marine. In
1798 the editing and publication of the charts of the voyage of d’Entrecasteaux
were officially confided to him. This great performance, which did not appear

*

¥ *
MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS -BEAUPRE. 1%
till 1808, was a work of prolonged execution, but the co-operation which he

gave it did not engross him exclusively, and from the 20th J uly, 1799, to the
26th June, 1804, he was charged in’ chief with making the hydrographic survey

of the course of the Scheldt, and with a succession of other hydrographic mis-  _ af
sions relative either to the Scheldt or to the coasts of the North sea. ‘aos
Admiral Rosily, director of the depot of marine, being designated at the end
of the campaign of 1802 to make an inspection of these labors, informed himself 3
of the methods followed by M. Beautemps-Beaupré, as well in fixing the posi- .
tions of shoals and of soundings as in the construction of the plan. He gave #

his complete approbation to these methods, which consisted essentially in the
combination of the accurate measurement of angles by means of the circle of
reflection, with the employment of the geometric principle of the “ problem of |
three points,” a combination whose application to submarine topography is one %
of the best titles of M. Beautemps-Beaupré to the respectful consideration of
hydrographers.

In 1804 the Nautical Description of the Coast of the North Sea from Calais

to Ostend was published under the auspices of the depot of marine. This work

gives in detail the description of the shoals which obstruct the port of Dunkirk,

and of those which are comprised between Dunkirk and the entrance of the

Scheldt, as well as the nautical instructions necessary for mariners who frequent
those shores. The chart which accompanies it was reproduced at the hydro-
graphical office. of London, with an English title, as having been executed by
Admiral Beautemps-Beaupré ; for the English were not slow in ascertaining,
though a little vaguely, that under that name there existed a hydrographer
worthy of the highest confidence. In the following years M. Beautemps-
Beaupré explored the course of the Scheldt, till then but little studied, and, for *
the first time, demonstrated the practicability of the ascent of that river by
ships-of-the-line as high as Antwerp, an indieation which furnished a basis for s
the plans of the Emperor at that point. Charts of minute detail embody the
results of these labors, before the termination of which M. Beautemps-Beaupré
was advanced in his position as hydrographical engineer and officer of the
marine, and was named (August 5, 1804) a member of the legion of honor. He e:
had by this time, indeed, become pre-eminently the hydrographer of the Em-
peror Napoleon. The latter, when a city or department required an important
and difficult construction, was accustomed to say: “ I will send Prony thither.”
When the matter in hand was the elaboration of one of those great projects
which he had so justly at heart for the re-establishment of our maritime power,
he sent, without saying anything, M. Beautemps-Beaupré.

After the campaign of Austerlitz and the peace of Presburg, the views of
the Emperor were turned towards the coasts of Dalmatia, of which the numerous
inlets and islands, with their steep banks and deep channels, present magnifi-
cent harbors, equally sheltered from the wind and the enemy, and of great
importance to the Venetian marine. M.Beautemps-Beaupré received (February
6, 1806) an order to make the hydrographic survey of the military ports on the
east shore of the Gulf of Venice. 'To this object he devoted three campaigns,
in 1806,-1808, and 1809. He took plans of the whole coast from Trieste to the
mouths of the Cattaro, embracing the port of Pola, and the still more magnifi-
cent one of Calamota, near Ragusa. ‘The plans and surveys of coasts which
he executed have been published on a reduced scale, but the admirably drawn ‘
originals remain one of the ornaments of the depot of marine.

After the battle of Wagram he was sent by General Maureillan, governor of
Zara, to the headquarters of the French army at Vienna, as bearer of a conven-
tion of armistice relative to Dalmatia. He received, on this occasion, from the
hand of the Emperor, the decoration of the iron crown. Being ordered to
report himself; with his charts, to the minister of marine at Paris, he had
scarcely arrived at that city when he was named member of a commission :

. oO

=
+

‘

f

128 MEMOIR OF C. F, BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. |

charged with duties relating to military operations on the coast of Zealand,
__ where the English had made a descent. Recurrence to him was the invariable

“ie _ rule in everything bearing on the affairs of the Scheldt, and in the intervals of

>. his labors in Dalmatia he had been repeatedly required to return thither. His
ae indefatigable activity was equal to all demands.
.*.. Anew phase in his life now opened to him. The death .of his venerable
. »master and friend, M. de Fleurieu, had left a place vacant in the first class of
the Institute in the section of geography and navigation. M. Beautemps-Beau-
pré consented, with much distrust, to become a candidate. To make the report
on his titles to a nomination fell to the lot of M. Arago, who, observing the
number and variety of his labors, said to him: “ You must have lived a hundred
years !”’ He had lived, however, but forty-four, and was nominated, September
24, 1810, by a large majority. One of his principal competitors was Admiral
de Rosily, director of the depot of marine, his official chief and constant friend.
The transient rivalry produced no change in their feelings or relations. In our
peaceful contests, he who loses to-day frequently succeeds to-morrow, and the
merit of one aspirant places in higher relief the merits of others. Admiral
Rosily was himself an hydrographer of much experience and great knowledge.
In 1787, during the voyage of la Perouse, he had executed, by order of the
King, on the frigate Yenus, which he commanded, the hydrographic recon-
naissance of the Red sea. In 1816, zealously supported by M. Beautemps-
Beaupré, he, too, became a colleague of the Academy in the section of free
academicians.

In 1811 the empire had been extended as far as Hamburg and Lubeck. M.
Beautemps-Beaupré, who, at the beginning of his career, had labored on the

_ Baltic Neptune under M. Fleurieu, was now charged with the hydrographic
exploration of the northern coasts of the empire beyond the Scheldt. From
1811 to 1813 he made a series of surveys in the departments of Holland, as
well as at the mouths of the Ems, the Weser, and the Elbe, in view of the estab-
lishment of a great military port. ‘The decision, founded on his investigations,
being in favor of the Elbe, he was charged, with the selection of the most
favorable site on the left bank of that river, and made a complete hydrographic
survey of its course. |

In 1815, during the hundred days, the Emperor, at a reception in the Tuil-
leries, stopping abruptly before M. Beautemps-Beaupré, said to him, with an air
of chagrin: “ We are still very far from the Elbe—and your charts ?” “Sire,”
replied M. Beautemps-Beaupré, ‘1 considered it my duty to send them to the
United States by an American vessel.” “ J¢ 7s well,” rejoimed the Emperor,
gratified at recognizing in this trait the man who had been the confidant and
faithful instrument of his great designs. At a later period the charts were
remitted to the government of Hanover, and M. Beautemps+Beaupré was named
a member of the Royal Society of Sciences of Gottingen.

Justly honored for so long a series of services, he might have now resigned
himself to a well-earned repose, but his was not the temperament for such an
indulgence, and at an age when many think of closing their career he com-
menced a new one. Since his return from the Cape of Good Hope in 1796,
he had been unable, by reason of. the war, to extend his labors beyond the
waters closed to the enemy, and, with the exception of his exploration of the
coasts of the North sea, after the peace of Amiens in 1802, he had been obliged
to confine himself to some of the rivers of Germany and the equally protected
inlets of Dalmatia. The return of peace again made the ocean free, and the
opportunity of revisiting it was seized with alacrity by M. Beautemps-Beaupré,
for whom it seemed to revive the brightest days of his early manhood.

Admiral Rosily, director of the depot of marine, had the merit of imme-
diately comprehending what the occasion required and allowed, and Louis |
XVIII that of entertaining his proposals with favor, notwithstanding the em-

2
MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 129

barrassments of the times. The ordinance directing the immediate prepara-

tion of tlie plot of the coasts of France was signed June 6, 1814, but the labor —

could not be commenced till 1816. By an ordinance of the former date, M.

Beautemps-Beaupré was named hydrographic enginecr-in-chief* and joint

keeper of the general depot of the charts, plans, and journals of the marine.
The condition of French hydrography at that time was an anomaly result-

ing from circumstances. The administration of Louis XIV had occupied itself —

with the hydrography of the coasts of France, and the engineer Lavoye had
executed, about 1670, charts of the coasts of Brittany which were quite passa-
ble, or at least very much. superior to those which represented the parts of the
coast comprised between the mouth of the Loire and the shores of Spain. A
century afterwards, in 1776, the government ordered a hydrographical recon-
naissance of the coasts of France under the superintendence of la Brettonniere,
captain in the navy, and Mechain, astronomer for the marine and member of
the Academy of Sciences; but it would seem that those distinguished person-
ages were rather charged with the collection of materials for rectifying the
errors of the old charts, than with the execution of such a detailed and com-
plete survey as might meet the wants of the service under al! circumstances.
There remain in the archives of the depot of marine but few documents rela-
ting to their operations, which extended, however, from Dunkirk to the Bay
of Cancale. .
Since that time geography had made in France important advances with
which hydrography had by no means kept pace. Before the close of the
eighteenth century there were geographic charts of a great part of the globe, com-
petent to convey a general and sufiiciently precise idea of the continents and
seas. France particularly had been enriched with the map of Cassini, known
also by the name of the map of the Academy, a work of great merit for that
time in point of execution, and of great utility. it may be said, however, with
truth, that towards the end of the last and in the first years of the present cen-
tury, the art of constructing geographical charts received improvements by
which it was essentially revolutionized. This amelioration was consequent
upon the establishment of the metric system, which had necessitated the meas-
urement of the meridian of France, from Dunkirk to Barcelona, and afterwards
to Formentera. To the chain of triangles established in the execution of this
measurement a comprehensive triangulation was subsequently attached, ex-
tending over the whole of France, and in the sequel over considerable portions
of Spain, of Italy, and of Great Britain. In the prosecution of these vast and
difficult labors several members of the Academy have borne a conspicuous
part: MM. Delambre, Mechain, Biot, Arago, Mathieu, Puissant, in conjune-
tion with most of the members of the corps of topographical engineers and
sundry officers of the military staff. On the triangles of the meridian has been
based the trigonometric system of the new map of France, published by the
depot of war. In England, savants of the highest merit, Colonels Mudge,
Roy, Sabine, and the most distinguished officers of the ordnance corps, have

* Tt may oceasion surprise that M. Beautemps-Beaupré, employed and appreciated as he
was by the Emperor Napoleon I, should have retained till 1824 the title of ingenieur-hydro-
graphe ordinaire; but this will be more easily understood from the following letter written
July 20, 1819, by M. le due Decrés, who had been minister of the marine under the empire:
* All the world appreciates the services rendered by M. Beautemps-Beaupré with a zeal, per
severance, and talent above all praise; but I, who have maintained ciose relations with him
for many years, cannot but regard him with sincere attachment, and owe him many thanks
for the proofs of friendship which he has always given me. There are persons who, without
the least claim, are always soliciting; these are numerous. There are others, forming but a
small minority, who, with the most incontestable claims, never solicit anything. The fact is,
that during the eighteen years of my official relations with M. Beautemps-Beaupré, he ceased
not to occupy my attention by his labors, but never once invoked it by a solicitation. Since-
he forgets himself, it is but right that justice and friendship should remember him,”

oS
130 MEMOIR OF CG. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.

combined their operations with those of our own countrymen, and have com-
menced the publication of a magnificent chart of England, designated by the
name of the Ordnance Map.

‘To place French hydrography on a level with geography, while reseuing
it from the momentary abandonment which war had necessitated, was now the
object of interest. ‘The instructions which M. Beautemps-Beaupré received
for this purpose were framed by Admiral Rosily, chief of the marine depot,
and M. de Rossel, who had become one of its joint directors, after having aided
in the hydrographical labors of the expedition of d’Entrecasteaux. 'T hese in-
structions indicated the west coast of France as first claiming attention, since
among all those to whose hydrography navigators had need of daily recur-
rence, this was most noted for its defect of exploration. It was to Brest,
therefore, that M. Beautemps-Beaupré repaired, and here two schooners had
been built for him, whose names, /a Recherche and 7’ Astrolabe, gratefully re-
called the memory of la Perouse and d’Entrecasteaux. To these were joined
the light vessels necessary for the accomplishment of his mission.

In indicating the objects proposed for his attainment, he was left at liberty
to adopt that mode of operating which long experience in labors of this nature
might induce him to select. He thus found himself authorized either to unite
all the means placed at his disposal on a small extent of coast, in order to pro-
educe promptly a description of it, or to distribute them over several points.at
the same time.

The first was the mode on which he determined; as well because he had
already proved, as he himself tells us,* its efficiency under various cireum-
stances, as because it was the only one which would enable the depot of marine
to publish in succession the collective results of each campaign. By concen-
trating the operations of the engineers successively on small extents of coast, it
was in his power to verify in some measure daily the labors of each of his as-
sistants. ‘hus, for instance, when an engineer, in sounding, encountered some
obstruction which had escaped former researches, he gave notice of it, and M,
Beautemps-Beaupié was in a position to make a personal investigation imme-
diately. To this mode of operating he owed the advantage of being able to
combine all his means at the same moment on a dangerous position, when the
weather was favorable. In this way he has often succeeded in terminating in
a single day, or even a few hours, the examination of dangers situated far in
the offing, the deseription of which would have. required the employment ‘of an
isolated engineer during a whole season; of this kind were the reconnaissances
of the western extremity of the bank noe race of Sein, the flats of Roche-
Bonne, &c.

The years 1816, 1817, 1818, were exclusively devoted to the survey of the
maritime position of Brest, and ite results, forming the first part of the Pdlote
Frangais, were published in 1822. The operations of 1819, 1820, 1821, and
of the first part of 1822, a aie the survey of that part of the western
coast of France comprised between the point of Penmarch (Finisterre) and
the isle of Yeu, (Vendée,) and furnished the materials of the second part
of the above work, published in 1829. From 1822 to 1826 the survey was
extended to that part of the coast comprised between the isle of Yeu and Spain,
and its results appeared as the third part in 1832. In 1839 the fourth part
was given to the world, representing the labors of five years from 1829 to 1833,
and embracing a description of the coast between the isle of Brehat and Bar-
fleur. In 1834, 1835, and 1836, the operations were extended from the latter
point to Dunkirk. Finally, in 1837 and 1838, the survey was made of
that portion of coast comprised between the isle of Brehat and the

* Exposé des Travaur Relatifs a la Reconnaissance Hydrographique des Cétes Occidentalis
de France, par M, Beautemps-Beaupre, p. 3.

>

MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. 131

northern rocks of the Passage du Four, (Finisterre,) where operations had
stopped in 1818, and thus were completed the materials for the fifth and sixth
parts of the Pi/ote Frangais, which appeared in 1842 and 1844. The six
atlases contain twenty-one general charts, sixty-five special charts, thirty-one
plaus of double elephant size, fifteen of half elephant, and fourteen of quarter
elephant size, two hundred and seventy-nine tables of surveys taken of the
principal dangers of the west and north coasts of France, and one hundred and
eighty-four tables of high and low water observed during the progress of the
twenty seasons spent upon the same coasts. The account (/’ Exposé, &c.)
of these hydrographical labors, executed under his orders, was so drawn up by
M. Beautemps-Beaupré as to serve as the complement to the second chapter of
the appendix attached to the first volume of the voyage of d’Entrecasteaux.
In justifying this form of composition, he pleads that, when that appendix was

ublished, his practical knowledge of the best means for reconnoitring maritime
Be ractions could not be so positive as that acquired during his first ten cam-
paigns (1817 to 1827) on the coasts of France. It is certain, nevertheless, that
in everything essential his method was definitely fixed at the time of the pub-
lication of d’Entrecasteaux’s voyage in 1808; and in the preface to that work
it is thus spoken of by M. de Rossel, an authority of undoubted competency :
“Navigators will in general find in this appendix hydrographic instructions of
a far more complete nature than any heretofore published. M. Beautemps-;
Beaupré has here given also several expeditious methods for sounding a coast
and marking the depths on the chart. These methods, of which he availed
himself for his operations conducted on the coast of France, (before 1808,) by
order of the minister of marine, are so useful that it would be unjust to with-
hold them from navigators, as well as those of which he made use during the
campaign.”

From these judicious observations of one of the masters of hydrographic
science, it will readily be inferred that the operations which M. Beautemps-
Beaupré conducted on the coasts of France differ in several essential particulars
from those with which he was habitually occupied in the voyage of d’Entre-
casteaux. In the latter, which pertain generally to what is called surveying
under sail, the end principally in view was to fix the position of the remarkable
objects seen on the land, capes, mountains, &c., by means of observations
directed towards those objects from certain points in the course of the ship, de-
termined with especial care. The operations on the coasts of France, within
an extent generally less wide and with much less rapidity, had in view to fix
various points of the sea, rocks, places of sounding, &c., with reference toi cer-
tain objects determined on land, mountains, steeples, semaphores, and other
signals. ‘This was almost an inverse operation to the preceding; yet this also
required numerous admeasurements of angles, which were obtained with the
same reflecting circle, and the geometric constructions were derived essentially
from the same trigonometric principles, although the proposition of the “ problem
of three points’? was here more frequently employed.

As the bearings taken from the sea were directed upon all the remarkable
objects of the land, it was necessary that the position of these should be deter-
mined by geodetic measurements made ashore with all the precision attainable
by science. For this reason a triangulation was executed on land embracing
all the points of the coast. This was effected for the western coasts of Irance,
from Brest to Saint Jean de Luz, by M. Daussy, and for the northern and
southern coasts by M. Bégat, both members of the corps of hydrographical
engineers of the marine. ‘These triangulations have been connected with the
grand triangulation which serves as a base for the new chart of Trance pub-
lished by the corps of the e¢at-major, and have been found so exact that they
have been finally incorporated in that fundamental system. MM. Daussy and
Bégat have deduced from their trigonometric labors a complete table of the
132 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.

positions of all the remarkable objects of the coasts of France which can be
seen from the sea; and it was by bearings directed upon these points, rigor-
ously determined, that M. Beautemps-Beaupré and his assistants fixed the posi-
tions of the points of the sea which were to be marked on the charts and plaas.
The bearings were invariably taken with the reflecting circle, in the manage-
ment of which valuable and delicate instrament M. Beautemps-Beaupré had
acquired great dexterity. Nor was he less expert in constructing graphically on
the first rough draught of his chart the points observed by his method, founded
on the geometrical principle of the “problem of three points.” He was
master in a surprising degree of the varied constructions deducible from this
principle, and applied them, as the case might require, with the utmost readi-
ness and sagacity.

It is usually by means of the circumferences of circles described with the ob-
served distances that the points of station are obtained; but when this construec-
tion presents some difficulty by reason of the length of the radius of the circle,
the nearness of centres, &c., it is practicable to substitute one of those somewhat.
numerous and generally quite simple constructions which elementary geometry
deduces from the same fundamental theorem. ‘Thus, in many circumstances,
calculation may be used to find the radii and centres of the circles to be described.
M. Beautemps-Beaupré recommends for these constructions, combined with
‘ealculation, the employment of the tables of natural tangents and sines.

The seale adopted by the hydrographic engineers for the first reduction of
Jabors was six lines for 100 toises, or zq455 equal to six times that of the
che of Cassini. ‘The charts, and even plans, however, have been generally
published on a scale much smaller, but M. Beautemps-Beaupré soon recognized
the propriety of not only collecting the materials requisite for the execution of
the new charts of the coasts of France, but of exerting himself, moreover, to
bring together in the archives of the depot of marine all the documents which
might be useful in the sequcl for forming a judgment of any projects relating
to navigation. He suffered himself to be deterred neither by the difficulties nor
magnitude of the work, and the depot found itself eventually in possession of a
collection of five hundred and twenty-seven quarto volumes, containing the
documents requisite to execute at need, on the largest scale, the plan of all parts
of the western and northern coasts of France to which the attention of govern-
ment might be called.

One of the most essential and useful parts of marine charts is the indication of
the depths of the sea at different points obtained by the sounding line and denoted
by figures on the chart. M. Beautemps-Beaupré was equally skilled in making
and in marking the positions of soundings, and it is with the authority of a
practised master that he recapitulates in the Exposé des Travauz, &c., the rules
of the difficult art of submarine topography. It was seldom that an obstruction
or peril escaped him, though he seems to take pleasure in citing, for the instrue-
tion of his successors, instances in which his researches were bafiled for years
in succession. One day notice was given him that a vessel had touched upon
a rock at a point where none was known to exist. He sought for it a long time
without success, but at last his line fell upon it. The rock was simply a peak
whose diameter scarcely exceeded that ofthe lead of the sounding line.

It is necessary to take account in soundings of the constant variations of the
level of the sea by reason of the tides. ‘“'The first thing to be done,” says our
hydrographer, “at the commencement of a campaign, on a coast where the water
through this cause continually changes its level, is to place a certain number of
scales, divided into feet and inches, on which those changes shall be observed,
since it is by means of observations of this kind that we are enabled, in giving
the chart its definite form, to reduce to the lowest water’ level the soundings
made at all hours of the day and tide. ‘To reduce the soundings is to subtract
from the depths found on different days and at all hours of the tide, for every

; MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE. P38
point of the coast sounded, the suitable number of feet, in order to transfer to
the plan only the depths of water found at each point at the precise instant of
lowest depression. ‘the tables of high and low tide, at many principal points
on the coasts of France, are extracts frem the large body of observations which
served for the reduction of the soundings.” (Ezposé des Travaux, &c., p. 10.)

As M. Beautemps-Beaupré has more than once remarked, the soundings in
many parts of the sea are far from being necessarily unchangeable. It is readily
conceived that they must vary as well from the effect of deposits produced at
some points as of erosions which take place at others. He had said, as early
as 1804, in his nautical description of the coast of the North sea: « We forewarn
navigators that our work must not be regarded as everywhere authoritative, ex-
cept for a limited time, on account of the changes which are in progress in the
shoals upon these shores.”’ ‘To the same effect he observes with reference to
the western and southern coasts of France: ‘‘ All banks of sand and ooze un-
dergo changes of position and of depth of which navigators should ever be dis-
trustful, since the best charts can only give, as regards dangers of this kind,
insuflicient information when some time has intervened since their construction.
And this applies especially to such banks when they obstruct the mouths of
rivers. Hence the necessity of sounding annually the principal channels, and,
indeed, of frequently renewing the charts of the entrances of rivers.” It may
be added that the comparison of the successive charts of the same region will
some day furnish valuable data respecting the accumulation of sub-marine
alluviums.

It was to the class of researches just spoken of that our colleague dedicated
his last hydrographic labor. He had not taken final leave of the sea in closing,
in 1839, his survey of the northern coast of France. In 1841, at the age of
seventy-five, he cheerfully complied with the invitation of Admiral Baudin to
join him in an investigation of the changes produced in the system of bars at
the mouth of the Seine within the seven preceding years. It was then that for
the first time he had at his disposal a vessel moved by steam, and the superior
facilities thus furnished for hydrographic enterprises drew from him the remark,
“That he would gladly recommence his career if it were only for the pleasure
of prosecuting hydrography with such advantages.”

Though he cheerfully acknowledged that the marine had done in his behalf
all that was practicable, yet he had never, during his operations on the coasts
of France, possessed other resources for transportation than those supplied by
the sail and oar. He had generally at his command a company of eight or ten
hydrographical engineers and officers of marine, and from this school of prac-
tical hydrography have proceeded many of each class who have since been in-
trusted with the most important labors in remote as well as neighboring seas.
Among them have appeared at different times our present colleagues, M. Daussy,
Admiral du Petit Thouars, and M. Dortet de Tessan; MM. Givry and Gressier,
to whom was intrusted, under our distinguished and regretted colleague, Admi-
ral Roussin, the hydrography of the coasts of Brazil; MM. Monnier and Le
Bourguignon Duperré, who have furnished us a magnificent chart of our colony
of Martinique, and have commenced the hydrographic survey of our Mediter-
ranean coasts, and those of Italy; MM. Begat, Keller, Chazallon, Lisusson,
Delamarche, de la Roche-Poncié, now actively prosecuting the grand hydro-
graphic enterprises of the depot of marine; MM. Darondeau and Vincendon
Dumoulin, who have so honorably associated their names with our great voy-
ages of circumnavigation and other important labors; MM. Le Saulnier de
Vauhello, Lapierre, Jehenne, De Villeneuve, who, as officers of our marine,
have in different quarters of the world rendered signal services to hydrography.

-Pamiliar with all the hazards of the sea, M. Beautemps-Beaupré exercised a
consummate prudence in the employment of his assistants, and was justified in
saying to the Academy, when he presented it with the sixth and last volume of
134 MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.

the Pilote de France: “It completes the satisfaction I feel at having brought
to a successful close so considerable a work as that which I now submit to the
Academy, that never in the course of twenty campaigns, amidst the innumerable
dangers which beset our coasts, hi ve I had to deplore the loss of one of my
Gomiaiés by any accident of the sea.’’ Nor was he less emphatic i in acknowl.

edging the zeal and science of those Gm had taken part in his labors, and we
feel Ph it it was with equal pride and pleasure that he took another oecasion to

say: “ Practical knowledge may advance, and methods be hereafter improved,
but we believe ourselves fully justified in affirming, that under no circumstances
can greater zeal be exerted than has been displayed by all our fellow-laborers.”
Hence, when Louis Philippe, in 1844, named him grand officer of the legion of
honor, the entire cor ps of hy drographic: ul engineers felt themselves recompensed
in the person of their v enerable chief.

Kindness of disposition did not preclude, in the case of our colleague, great
firmness of character, as was abundantly manifested amidst the vex ate in-
separable from labors like his; especially was his constancy of purpose proved
by a circumstance which would have discouraged most others. Although he
embarked young, and at the outset was tossed fur two successive years on the
most stormy seas, he ceased not at any time to be subject to sea-sickness, and
it was amidst sufferings from this malady, which so completely subdues the
stoutest spirits, that for fifty years it devolved on him to measure angles with
the nicest precision, and note the details of soundings, while exposed on slight
vessels to the waves which often swept over himself and his draw ings; yet “hie
paid no attention to these things, and disliked to have his infirmity observed by
others. ‘lo his assistants, However his sufferings could not be unknown, and
must have contributed to the sympathetic Migciibn with which he was regarded
by those, whether officers or mariners, with whom his labors brought him into
contact.

Jt was indeed natural that, with such a character as his, M. Beautemps-
Beaupré should be loved by all who approached him, and it may be readily
imagined that the 25th September, 1848, which witnessed his official retirement,

was, for the depot of marine and the whole corps of hydrographic engineers, a
day of undissembled regret. Equally may we conclude that it was a day of
festivity when, February 2, 1853, M. Ducos, minister of marine, came, in the
name of the Emperor and in the presence of the corps of engineers, to inaugurate
the bust of our colleague in the grand gallery of the depot, whose iny aluable
documents have in great part been collected by himself or under his orders, or
at least by the methods with which he has endowed hydrography. On this
interesting occasion, Admiral Mathieu, the worthy and learned director of the
depot, pronounced a discourse, from which I must content myself with trans-
cribing the following passage: “In having constantly before our eyes the ven-
erable: features of him who was once our chie®, and who has created that admi-
rable hydrographic science which is the torch of navigation, we shall recall
without ceasing his vast and conscientious labors, his useful counsels, his devo-
tion to duty, his rigid probity, and at every moment of the day, so to speak, we
shall pay him the Abate of respect and gratitude due to him by so many titles.”’
‘To this address M. Ducos cordially responde d: “This bust,” he said, in closing
his remarks, ‘is entitled to our respect, for it is that of M. Beautemps- -Beaupré,
so much endeared to the navigators of all nations and of every sea. In dedi-
eating this effigy of the man of science, whom you justly consider the founder
of the depot of marine, in the place which has been the witness of the labors of
his long career, it would seem to be no strained metaphor which should liken
this tribute of your regard and veneration to one of those beacons ereeted by
his counsels and exertions by which you would ingeniously recall to his sue-
cessors the modest point of departure, and the glorious point of success which
they too may realize.” The bust is perfect in its resemblance, faithfully repro-

MEMOIR OF C. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.” 135

ducing the noble features, the kindliness, united with penetration. which charac-
terized the original. Under a physiognomy impressed with so much goodness,
we are easily persuaded that we see one of those ancient savants of the primitive
type whose renown is the property of ages. ‘lo the skilful statuary (M.
Desprez) who executed it, the more honor should accrue, inasmuch as M. Beau-
temps-Beaupré had reached the age of eighty-six without having ever permitted
any one to take his portrait. After the ceremony, the minister, the admiral,
and the whole body of assistants proceeded to the modest residence of M.
Beautemps-Beaupré, in the street des Saznts-Peres, there to render to the illus-
trious old man in person, and amidst the applause of all present, an homage
which must have sensibly touched his heart.

Nor were the scientilic bodies, to which he belonged by more than one
title, less conscientious in their acknowledgments. In 1824 he had been named
member of the bureau of longitudes, and assiduously attended the meetings
whenever he was in Paris. His advice in all that regarded navigation was
here listened to with invariable deference. He had been also named one of the
commission of light-houses from the commencement in 1826, and was especially
intrusted with the suitable location of those invaluable aids to navigation. The
active and influential part which he took in the deliberations of the board was
warmly acknowledged at his funeral by M. Leonece Reynaud, the skilful con-
structor of the light-house of Brehat, the site of which was fixed by M. Beau-
temps-Beaupré himself, after the difficult and dangerous exploration of the
Roches-Douvres at the entrance of the British channel. His character, his long
experience of the sea, his solicitude for the public good, conspired, with the
intrinsic wisdom of his counsels, to secure their constant adoption. Even on
his death-bed his thoughts were still occupied with the interests and dangers
of maritime enterprise; and if he manifested a sensibility, it was to the assur-
ance that the member of the commission of light-houses had completed the
work of the hydrographer, and that thenceforward all important questions
bearing on the lighting of our sea-coast were resolved.

Whatever related to the sea interested him to the last. In 1853 a commission
was appointed to investigate, under the direction of M. Dumas, certain ques-
tions touching the existence of the ¢angwe, a product of marine origin which the
sea throws up at the entrances of certain rivers of Normandy and Brittany.
Agriculture dreaded the disappearance of this fertilizer. The commission, de-
sirous of consulting M. Beautemps-Beaupré on this production of shores which
he had so thoroughly explored, repaired in a body to his residence. The aged
navigator recovered all his animation in speaking of places which he had so
often visited: “We know not,” he said, “how the tangue is reproduced at
those points; it is the fowl which lays golden eggs; it must not be interfered
with.”

In the presence of the great spectacles of nature, M. Beautemps-Beaupré had
contracted a taste for natural history. If he did not cultivate it himself, he
zealously aided those who did. In the expedition of d’Entrecasteaux he had
formed intimate relations with its botanist, M. de la Billardicre, and it was he
who brought to France the beautiful nautilus vitré now in the Museum of
Natural History which was bequeathed to the government by M. de Kermadee,
captain of the Lsperance, on his death in New Caledonia. Many of our col-
leagues recall with sensibility the cordial and obliging reception extended to
them on our coasts by M. Beautemps-Beaupré while prosecuting his own
arduous hydrographic labors.

Reared among the savants of the close of the eighteenth century, he had pre-
served that almost religious respect for science which was one of their dis-
tinctive characteristics. Hence the dignity, united with friendliness, which per-
vaded all his relations. ‘‘ He was,’ said the Marchioness de Laplace, whose
remembrance is itself a eulogy, ‘a man of an antique character.” He possessed
136 MEMOIR OF CG. F. BEAUTEMPS-BEAUPRE.
‘

that elevation of sentiment which Plutarch so well knew how to paint. Reverses —
of fortune, which would have overwhelmed another, were encountered by him
with stoic firmness. Involved at an advanced age in the failure of a banker,* —
he lost by that event the savings of his whole life; but he contented himself
with saying affectionately to Madame Beautemps-Beaupré, “'lhis event, my
love, makes us younger by thirty years,’”’ an expression which supposed in her
an elevation of sentiment equal to his own. Few marriages, indeed, have been
so happy as that which he contracted, in 1804, with Madame Fayolle, widow
of a commissary general of marine. Both were nearly eighty when death sepa-
rated them by the removal of the w ife; it was the first cloud which had dark-
ened their union.

M. Fayolle, issue of the first marriage of Madame Beautemps-Beaupré, found
in our colleague a second father, and, as hydrographical engineer, was for many
years one of ibe most distinguished and useful assistants.

M. Beautemps-Beaupré had always had a weakness of the breast; at the age
of eighteen some physicians had even augured an early decline. W hen he
embarked to take part in the expedition of d’Entrecasteaux, it was generally
thought that he would never again see France. ‘This prognostic was fortu-
nately falsified; but an eben cough attended his whole life, and in later
years subjected him to much annoyance.

It will scarcely be forgotten among ourselves that, at our sessions, he was a
model of punctuality. He signed our record the 23d of October, 1853, but
thenceforward was forced to renounce his attendance. 'This privation, and the
sufferings which occasioned it, he bore with a resignation full of cheerfulness.
One of our colleagues having called to see him, and expressing the hope that a
strong constitution would again restore him to us, he replied with a smile, “I
am duly sensible of your kindness, but I shall soon be eighty-eight.”” Firm in |
a Christian faith, M. Beautemps-Beaupré accepted death without a murmur.
“Let us not repine,” said Admiral Baudin at his grave, “that, in subjecting
him for several months to the supreme trial of excessive suffering, God afforded
him the opportunity of setting an example of resignation and unalterable
serenity.”

He expired March 16, 1854, surrounded by a devoted family, which numbers
two inheritors of his distinguished name—M. Pierre Beautemps-Beaupré, presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce of Grandville, and M. Charles Beautemps-
Beaupré, imperial procurator at Mantes. In this Academy he succeeded M. de -
Fleurieu, his master and friend, and has himself been succeeded by M. Daussy,
who, from 1811, had been his most constant collaborator, and who efiiciently
contributed to secure to the hydrographic survey of the coasts of France
geodetic bases of irreproachable precision.

* The banker, who was his relative, might have been prosecuted for fraudulent bank-
ruptcy. M. Be -autemps- -Beaupre threw in “the fire the only paper which could have pro-
cured his condemnation, saying, ‘‘1t is not I who will ever be instrumental in disgracing a
relative.”

OUTLINE OF THE ORIGIN AND HISTORY

Ps OF THE

PO vAL). SOCLELY. OF «L0N DON

PREPARED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C. A. ALEXANDER,

“The principal advantage of academies consists in the philosophical spirit naturally en-
gendered by them, which spreads itself throughout society, and extends to all objects. The
isolated inquirer may resign himself without fear to the spirit of system; he only hears afar
off the contradiction which he incurs. But in a learned society the conflict of systematic
opinions soon results in their overthrow ; and the desire of being mutually satisfied necessarily
establishes between the members an agreement to admit nothing but the results of observation
and calculation. Hence, as experience hus shown, true philosophy has been generally dif-

-fused since the rise of academies. By setting the example of subjecting everything to the

examination of a rigorous analysis, they have dissipated the prejudices which had too long
tyrannized in the sciences, and in which the best intellects of preceding ages had shared.
Their useful influence over opinion has, in our day, dispelled errors which had been received
with an enthusiasm that in other times would have perpetuated them. Equally exempt from
the credulity which would admit everything, and the prejudice which disposes to the rejection
of whatever departs from received ideas, these enlightened bodies have always, in difficult
questions, and with reference to extraordinary phenomena, wisely awaited the answers of ob-
servation and experiment, which they have at the same time solicited by prizes and by their
own labors. Proportioning their appreciation, as well to the magnitude and difficulty of a
discovery as to its immediate utility, and convinced by many examples that the most sterile
in appearance may some day lead to important consequences, they have encouraged the re-
search for truth in regard to all objects, with the exclusion of those only which the limits of
man’s understanding render forever inaccessible. Finally, it is from their bosom that those
great theories have arisen whose generality places them beyond the common reaeh, and which,
spreading themselves by numerous applications over nature and the arts, have become inex-
haustible sources of light and fruition. Wise governments, convinced of the utility of such
societies, and considering them as one of the principal foundations of the glory and prosperity
of empires, have not only instituted them, but attached them to their own service, that they
might derive from them that knowledge which has often proved of the highest public advan-
tage.” —(Laplace, Precis de l’ Histoire de l’ Astronomie, p. 99.)

“The development and advancement of science,” it has been remarked, “are
signally indebted to three among modern associations: the Accademia del
Cimento at Florence, which endured, however, but for a short time; the Royal
Society of London; and the Academy of Sciences at Paris.” The first of these
was established in 1657, under the patronage of the Grand Duke Ferdinand II,
acting upon the advice of Viviani, the great geometrician. The name adopted
by this society implies as its object the investigation of truth by experiment
alone, and its members, whose number was unlimited and included the distin-
guished names of Castellio and Torricelli, were held to no other obligation but
an abjuration of all authority and a resolution to inquire after truth, without
regard to the doctrines of any previous system of philosophy. Nor did the
Academy pass away without leaving a record of its labors. A volume, con-
taining reports of the experiments made under its auspices, was printed in 1666,
including, with many others, those on the supposed incompressibility of water,
the universal gravity of bodies, and the property of electric substances.

For England, after Italy, is claimed a priority in the formal inauguration of a
similar and purely scientific association, and the date of the establishment of
138 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE

the Royal Society, which is referred to 1660, certainly preceded by six years
that of its French rival. But, independently of the consideration that the
period had arrived when the state of experimental science urgently demanded
the realization of those splendid visions of associated activity which had long
before kindled the imagination of Bacon, * the chronological origin of the illus-
trious bodies in question is involved in some obscurity in consequence of their
previous existence as private and spontaneous reunions of certain learned men
of the age. Ilence the title of the “ Invisible College,” which we find applied
by Boyle to the future Royal Society, while as yet it existed only in this in-
choate state, a period of which the following passageg convey to us some inter-
ens Notices ;

é About the year 1645,” says Dr. Wallis, “while I lived in London, (at a
time when, by our civil wars, academical studies were much interrupted in
both our universitics,) besides the conversation of divers eminent divines as to
matters theological, I had the opportunity of being acquainted with divers
worthy persons inquisitive into natural philosophy and other parts of human
learning, and particularly of what hath been called the New Philosophy, or
Experimental Philosophy. We did, by agreement, divers of us, meet weekly
in London on a certain day, to treat and discourse of such matters. Our, busi-
ness was (precluding matters of theology and state affairs) to discourse and con-
sider of philosophical inquiries, and such as related thereunto, as physic,
anatomy, geometry, astronomy, navigation, statics, magnetics, chymics, me-
chanics, and natural experiments, w ith the state of these studies as then culti-
vated at home and abroad. We ae discoursed of the circulation of the blood,
the valves im the veins, the vene lactea, the lymphatic vessels, the Copernican
hypothesis, the nature of comets and new stars, the satellites of Jupiter, the oval
shape (as was then supposed ) of Saturn, the spots on the sun and its turning on
ats own axis, the inequalities and selenography of the moon, the several phases
of Venus and Mercury, the improvement of telescopes and grinding of glasses
for that purpose, the weight of air, the possibility or impossibility of vacuities
and nature’s abhorrence thereof, the Torricellian experiment in quicksilver, the
descent of heavy bodies and the degrees of acceleration therein, and divers other
things of like nature, some of which were then but new discoveries, and others
not so generally known and embraced as now they are.’

“For such a candid and impassionate company as that was,” says Dr. Sprat,
in his History of the Royal Society, “and for such a gloomy season, what could
have been a better subject to pitch upon than natural philosophy? To have
been always tossing about some theological question would have been to make
that their private diversion, the excess of which they themselves disliked in
the public; to have been eternally musing on civil business and the distresses
of their country was too melancholy a reflection. It was mature alone which
could pleasantly entertain them in that estate. Their meetings were as frequent
as their affairs permitted; their proceedings, rather by action than discourse,
chiefly attending some particular trials in chemistry or mechanics. They had
no rules nor method fixed; their intention was more to communicate to each
other their discoveries, which they could make in so narrow a compass, than
an united, constant, or regular inquisition. Thus they continued, without any
great intermissions, till about the fatal year 1658, when the continuance of
their meetings might have made them run the hazard of the fate of Archimedes;
for then the place of their meeting (Gresham College) was made a quarter for
soldiers.”

«There arose at this time,” says Dr. Whewell, alluding to the period ante-

to)
cedent to the epoch of Newton, “a group of philosophers who began to knock

* See the ‘‘New Atlantis,” of Lord Bacon.
ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 139

at the door where truth was to be found, although it was left for Newton to
force itopen. These were the founders of the Royal Society.” “The men who
formed the Royal Society,” says Bishop Burnet, “were Sir Robert Moray,
Lord Brouncker, a profound mathematician, and Dr. Ward, a man of great re-
search, and so dexterous that his sincerity was much questioned. But he who
labored most, at the greatest charge, and with the most success at experiments,
was the Hon. Robert Boyle, a devout Christian, humble and modest almost to a
fault.” Among other names connected with the Society in its earlier stage, or at
the period of its formal organization, and still memorable in science, literature, or
the arts, may be distinguished those of Bishop Wilkins, Sir Kenelm Digby,
Evelyn, Denham, Clarke, Cowley, Willis, Wren, Ashmole, &c.

« The first journal book of the Society, a plain unpretending volume, bound
in basil, yet destined to receive great names and to be the record of important
scientific experiments,” opens with the date of November 28, 1660, and with
the proceedings of a meeting which may be regarded as organic in relation to
the form and permanence of the Society. Here it was determined that mect-
ings should be regularly held every Wednesday during term time; that a con-
tribution of ten shillings on admission, and of one shilling weekly, should be
levied on each member, whether present or absent, as long as he should please
to maintain his connexion with the association, and a list was formed of the
names of such persons, known to those present, as were judged willing and fit
to unite with them in their design. At a subsequent meeting a committee of
three or more (as occasion might permit) was empowered to frame a constitu-
tion, which was submitted and adopted ata general meeting on the 12th of
December following. By this, the standing officers of the Society were declared
to be three: a president or director, a frensuide: and a register; the first to be
chosen monthly, the two latter annually. An amanuensis and operator are
styled “servants belonging to the Society,” and receive salaries, the former 40,
the latter 4 pounds per annum. The stated number of members was fixed at
fifty-five, with permission that all persons of the degrees of baron or above
might, at their choice, be admitted as supernumeraries. It was provided that
no candidate should be elected the same day he was proposed, and that at least
twenty-one members should be present at each election. Tor such election,
the amanuensis, it is ordered, shall provide ‘“ several little scrolls of paper of
equai length and breadth, in number double to the Society present. One-half
of them shall be marked with a cross, and being rolled up shall be laid in a
heap on the table; the other half shall be marked with ciphers, and being
rolled up shall be laid in another heap. Every person coming in his order
shall take from each heap a roll, and throw which he please privately into an
urn, and the other into a box. ‘Then the director. and two others of the
Society, openly numbering the crossed rolls in the urn, shall accordingly pro-
nounce the election.”” ‘I'wo-thirds of those voting were necessary to a choice.

The Society having included, as we have seen, two poets, Denham and
Cowley, among its members, was fairly entitled to a greeting from the muse.
This it received through the ingenious pen of Cowley, in verses whose philoso-
phical truth as well as originality of illustration may perhaps still justify
quotation. After deploring the fate of philosophy, which for three or four
thousand years had been kept by unwise or dishonest tutors in a state of
nonage, he tells us :

Bacon, at last, a mighty man! arose,
Whom a wise king and Nature chose

Lord chancellor of both their laws,
And boldly undertook the injur’d pupil’s cause.
* * *

From the long errors of the way,
In which our wandering predecessors went,
And, like the old Hebrews, many years did stray
i

140 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE

In deserts, but of small extent,

Bacon! like Moses, led us forth at last

The barren wilderness he pass’d—

Did on the very border stand

Of the bless’d promis’d land,

And from the mountain’s top of his exalted wit,
Saw it himself, and show’d us it.

If the poet has somewhat overstated the claims of Lord Bacon as the herald
of experimental philosophy, he seems to have been gifted with a clearer vision |
of the future achievements of the Society, which he thus apostrophises :

From you, great champions! we expect to get
Those spacious countries but discover’d yet ;
Countries where vet, instead of Nature, we
Her image and her idols worship’d see.
* * “ *

* * * *

New scenes of heaven already we espy,

And crowds of golden worlds on high,

Which from the spacious plains of earth and sea
Could never yet discover’d be

By sailor’s or Chaldean’s watchful eye.

Nature’s great works no distance can ubscure,
No smallness her near objects can secure:
Ye’ave taught the curious sight to press

Into the privatest recess

Of her imperceptible littleness ;

Ye’ave learn’d to read her smallest hand,

And well begun her deepest sense to understand.

Cowley possessed other claims than merely literary ones to scientific fellow-
ship; he had taken a degree in medicine and written, elegantly at least, on
plants and trees. He had besides, as Dr. Sprat assures us, accelerated the
foundation of the Royal Society by the publication of a proposition for the ad-
vancement of experimental philosophy, which is still found among his works,
and though the form of his proposed “ college’? was not adopted, it cannot be
denied that he has comprehensively, if quaintly, stated the objects to which
such an institution would necessarily be destined: “'To weigh, examine, and
prove all things of nature, and detect, explode, and strike a censure through
all false moneys, with which the world has been paid and cheated so long, and

(as I may say) set the mark of the college upon all true coins, that they may
pass hereafter without any further trial. Secondly, it will recover the lost in-
ventions, and, as it were, drowned lands of the ancients. ‘Thirdly, it will im-
prove all arts which we now have, and, lastly, discover others which we yet
have not.”

It cannot but afford a curious insight into the state of natural knowledge at

this early stage of the labors of the Society, if we glance at the manner in

which it proceeded to deal with the currency of which Cowley speaks, in order
to explode what was spurious and accredit what was genuine. With this view
a few entries from the journal are here given:

“Dr Clarke was entreated to lay before the Society Mr. Pellin’s relation of the production
of young vipers from the powder of the liver and lungs of vipers.

“*Sir Gilbert Talbot promised to bring in what he knew of sympatheticall cures. Those
that had any powder of sympathy were desired to bring some of it at the next meeting.

“The Duke of Buckingham promised to cause charcoal to be distill’d by his chymist, and
to bring into the Society a piece of unicorne’s horn.

“Sir Kenelm Digby related that the calcined powder of toads reverberated, applyed in
bagges upon the stomach of a pestiferate body, cures it by several applications. [Digby
delighted in the marvellous, and is said to have fed his wife on capons fattened with the
flesh of vipers, in order to preserve her beauty. ]

“* A circle was made with powder of unicorne’s horne and a spider set in the middle of it,
bat it immediately ran out severall times repeated. The spider once made some stay upon
the powder.

aN letter was introduced treating of a petrified city and its inhabitants.” &c., &c.

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 141

_

Other entries there are undoubtedly, and in greater number, which show that
the spirit of inquiry was rapidly finding its true direction: Investigations of
the mechanical properties of the air, by Boyle; experiments with the pendu-
lum, by Sir Christopher Wren, who is said to have first suggested its oscilla-
tions as a standard of measure; observations on the ‘“ anatomy of trees,’ by
Evelyn; instructions for the guidance of curious observers “in the remotest
parts of the world.” Even what now seem Indicrous tentatives with the pow-
der of toads and vipers, or frivolous inquiries respecting the witch-hazel and
still more wonderful Lepas anatifcra,* itis more just to regard as obligatory and
conscientious efforts to bring the questionable opinions of the day, however
trivial, to the assay of direct experiment. The time will probably not soon
come when science can claim absolute exemption from like humble labors ; not,
at least, “ While,” to borrow the words of Sir Thomas Brown, “ the spirit of
delusion, though expelled from his oracles and more solemn temples, still runs
into corners, exercising minor trumperies, and acting his deceits in inferior
seducers.”’

The Restoration, in diffusing a general sense of permanence and security, was
highly favorable to the objects of the association, and Charles II had enough of
curiosity, perhaps of wisdom, to look with a patronising eye on inquiries which
threatened to interfere neither with his indolence nor pleasures. He held sundry
communications with the philosophers, and even proposed subjects for investi-
gation, before proceeding to what has been uncharitably called the only wise
act of his reign—the incorporation of the Royal Society.

In the instrument by which this was effected, the King, after protesting his
zeal for all learning, especially for those studies which aim by solid experiments
to strike out something new in philosophy, or bring to perfection what already
exists, (novam extundere philosophiam aut expolire veterem,) declares himself
founder and patron of the Socicty, conferring on it the name of the Royal
Society of Loudon pro scientia naturali promovenda.t

Its government is deposited in the hands of a president and council, to the
number, including the president, of twenty-one, all of whom were, in the first
instance, nominated by the crown. For the succession, it is provided that an
election shall annually take place on St. Andrew’s day, in which a president
shall be chosen from among the members of the existing council, and ten of this
latter body shall be removed, and their places supplied by others; on which
occasion not less than thirty-one members of the Society shall be present, (the
president or his deputy being always one of them,) and a majority of that num-
ber shall determine the choice in each instance. Other officers of the Society
are a treasurer, two secretaries, two or more curators of experiments, one clerk,
besides two mace-bearers to attend on occasion upon the president. Power is
given to the president and council to make from time to time such laws and
ordinances as shall seem to them useful and necessary for the better government
and regulation of the Society; and grants of certain pieces and parcels (pecios
et parcellos) of land, of no great extent, are made to the learned body, to be
held of the crown by the tenure of free and common soceage. A somewhat
singular concession is that which authorizes the Society to demand the bodies
of such executed criminals as may be desired for dissection—a circumstance

* Sir Robert Moray, first president of the Royal Society, signalized the meeting at which
he was elected by presenting a paper relating to barnacles, in which he affirmed that he had him-
self seen, in the western isles of Scotland, trees to which were attached multitudes of shells,
each containing a small but perfectly shaped sea-fowl, or solan-goose. He candidly confesses,
however, that he did not see the products of these extraordinary limpets alive.

t ‘The epithet natural,” says Dr. Paris, in his Life of Sir Humphrey Davy, ‘‘ was here
intended to imply a meaning of which few persons are probably aware. At the period of the
establishment of the Society, the arts of witchcraft and divination were very extensively en-
couraged, and the word natural was therefore introduced in contradistinction to supernatural.”
142 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE

pointing perhaps to the large proportion of medical men which entered at that
time into the association. Finally, it is provided that if abuses should occur or
dissensions arise, the Archbishop of Canterbury and certain high officers of
state shall be invested with powers for removing such abuses and deciding such
controversies.*

The first president of the Society, after the incorporation, was Lord Brouacker;
the secretaries, Dr. Wilkins and Henry Oldenburg; all appointed by the crown.
“Some idea may be formed of the activity of the Society at this period by the
following list of eight committees appointed on the 30th March, 1664: 1,
Mechanical, consisting of sixty-nine members. 2. Astronomical and optical,
fifteen members. 3. Anatomical, consisting of Boyle, Hooke, Dr. Wilkins, and
all the physicians of the Society. 4. Chymical, comprising all the physicians
of the Society, and seven other Fellows. 5. Georgical, consisting of thirty-two
members. 6. For histories of trades, consisting of thirty-five members. 7. For
collecting all the phenomena of nature hitherto observed, and all experiments
made and recorded, consisting of twenty-one members. 8. Jor correspondence,
consisting of twenty members.” Oldenburg, about this time, received, as he
tells Boyle, the agreeable assurance from his correspondents in Paris, that ‘‘the
English philosophers were doing more for science than all the other nations of
Europe, as well in curious and detached particulars as in the great works given
to the public.”

The labors of the Society were destined to be soon interrupted by the plague
of 1665, which drove the members very generally from London. Oldenburg,
however, remained at his post, and continued his correspondence on scientific
matters during the whole period of the pestilence. When the meetings of the
Society were resumed, the sources of the late calamity became naturally a sub-
ject of investigation, and on this occasion the animalcular origin of the epidemic
was suggested. But “the vermination of the air as the cause of the plague”

was supposed to have received its strongest confirmation in Italy, where Dr.,

Bacon, who had long practiced physic at Rome, was said to have observed that
“there was a kind of insect in the air which laid eggs hardly discernible with-
out a microscope; which eggs being, for an experiment, given to be snuffed up
by a dog, the animal fell into a distemper accompanied with all the symptoms
of the plague.” Hooke, however, had observed that, during the summer in
question, there was, in London at least, a very great scarcity of flies and insects.

A second interruption of the meetings was occasioned by the “great fire” of
the following year, for, though the apartments of the Society in Gresham Col-
lege escaped, that edifice was required for the purposes of the corporation of
London. A removal of the meetings to Arundel House, at the invitation of
its owner, led in the sequel to a donation of his valuable library, which thus
became the nucleus of that of the Society. The collection consisted -of 3,287
printed books, chiefly first editions after the invention of printing, besides 544
volumes of Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Turkish, and other rare manuscripts, of

which the greater part, of both-classes, had been purchased in Vienna by an ~

ancestor of the noble house, and comprised the curious and costly collection
formed by the celebrated Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary. About this
time also the foundations of a museum, or “collection of natural things,” was
formed, which, it will not surprise us to be told, comprised, among other articles,
“the stones taken out of Lord Balearres’s heart, a bottle full of stag’s tears, a
petrified fish, the skin of an antelope which died in St. James’s park, a petrified
fcetus,’”’ and other equally extraordinary objects, which the language of the age
not unaptly termed “rarities.” ‘The rival museum of the Tradescants already
contained “two feathers of the phoenix tayle’”’ and “a natural dragon!”

* The charters and statutes of the Society may be seen at large in the appendix to WELD’S
HIsToRY OF THE ROYAL Socrery, a learned and interesting work, on whose statements the
present brief account is founded.

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 143

A subject which at this time attracted general attention was the transfusion
if blood trom the veins of one animal to those of another as a means of restoring
health or prolonging life. As usual, the most extravagant expectations were
indulged by the unreflecting in regard to the efficacy of this process, and the
Society, rightly judging the verification of its virtues to fall within their domain,
after trying with impunity the experiment of transfusion on that customary
victim of scientific curiosity, the dog, set themselves in quest of a human sub-
ject for further investigation. It was first proposed to try the practice upon
“some mad person in Bedlam,” probably with a view to test the effects upon the
mental as well as bodily sanity, but the physician in charge of the hospital re-
fused his assent. A poor student was, however, soon found, who, for the price

of a guinea, consented to undergo the operation, and indicated a sheep as the
animal whose blood he was willing to receive. ‘The experiment was conducted
at Arundel House, in the presence of the Society and of other distinguished in-
dividuals, and was attended with such encouraging circumstances as to lead to
its repetition some weeks afterwards, on which occasion eight owaces of human
blood were taken, and about fourteen ounces of sheep’s blood injected. ‘The
patient, we are told, was ‘well and merry”’ after the operation, his pulse and
appetite being better than before, but respecting the permanence of these good
results we are Icit somewhat in the dark. The condition of the patient’s mind,
as well before as after the experiment, may be judged of from the mystical
reason he assigned, when questioned why he had elected to. have the blood of
a sheep transfused rather than that of some other creature: Sanguis ovis sym-
bolicam quandan faculiatem habet cum sanguine Christi, quia Christus est
Agnus Dei. The Society had thus far met with better fortune than some of the
cotemporary inquirers in both Germany and France, where death had in more
than one instance been the result of similar proceedings, exposing those who
conducted them to the danger of prosecution for manslaughter. ‘Tidings of
these disasters at once turned the current of public opinion in England, and led
to the abandonment of further investigation on the part of the savants.

There can be no doubt that the inquisitive spirit of the Society, though often
directed to subjects which no longer appear either dignified or important, had
already exercised the happiest influence on the course and habits of public
thought. Inquiry was propagated, and a salutary scepticism everywhere man-
ifested its encroachments on the domain of popular delusion. Under this point
of view, the iustorian of the Society is justified in signalizing the fact that
although “during the civil wars upwards of eighty individuals were executed

in Sufiolk alone for supposed witchcraft, there were but two witches executed in
England after the Royal Society published their Transactions.” A body which
at once prosecuted researches on the theory of eclipses, the nature of comets,
and the causes of pestilence, could afford but little countenance to the wide-
spread delusion which associated the last of these phenomena in some myste-
rious concomitance with the two former. When even the scrupulous Boyle had
thought fit to give to one of his scientific treatises the title of The Sceptical
Chemist, there could be not much hope for alchemy and its attendant frauds.
In other fields, too, the habits of philosophical speculation which, if the Royal
Society did not introduce it; at least effectually promoted by influence and ex-
ample, gave rise to reforms which, as Buckle remarks,* rendered the reign of the
mean and spiritless voluptuary Charles II one of the brightest epochs in the na-
tional annals, with reference to laws then passed and principles then established.

The zeal of the Society for furthering and stimulating experimental inquiry
was manifested at an early period by the adoption of a resolution “that such
of the Fellows as regarded the welfare of the Society should be desired to oblige

*History of Civilization in England, vol. I, p. 275.
: |

144 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE x

themselves to entertain it, once a year at least, with a philosophical discourse,
grounded upon experiments made or to be made; and in case of failure, to for-
feit €5.” ‘This voluntary engagement on the part of Fellows, deemed “able
and likely” to furnish such discourses, was at the same time made an imperative —
obligation on each member of the existing council. For one, the indefatigable
Hooke is recorded in the journal-book as having produced new experiments
and inventions at almost every meeting. An agent was salaried to traverse
England and Scotland in search of zoological and botanical specimens, and this
at a time when a default on the part of many members in the payment of the
weekly subseription had so crippled the resources of the Society as to render
even its existence precarious. An active foreign correspondence had contributed
to secure to it an influence abroad searcely inferior to that which it enjoyed at
home, as was testified by the learned of Europe, among others by Leibnitz,
Malpighi, and Leuwenhoeck, in the dedication of their works to the Society, or
a submission of their labors to its judgment. It is a coincidence not unworthy,
perhaps, of notice, that about the time when “one Mr. Leuwenhoeck,” as we
find him ealled in the correspondence, recommended to the notice of the Society
his improved microscope, by the assiduous use of which he eventually arrived
at the distinction of being esteemed ‘the father of microscopical discoveries,” a
“poor Cambridge student,’? named Isaac Newton, presented to it his reflecting
telescope, “ the first perfect reflector known, and made by the hands of Newton
himself.”* ‘Thus science was simultaneously endowed with the perfected means
of realizing both terms of Cowley’s poetical prophecy—the penetration alike
“of the crowds of golden worlds on high,’ and “ the recesses of nature’s imper-
ceptible littleness.’? The presentation of the telescope was soon followed by
the adoption of the inventor into the Society, the year 1671 being the date of
the accession of the great philosopher, destined, in the eloquent language of Dr.
Young, “to advance with one gigantic stride from the regions of twilight into
the noonday of science.”

From this period the history of the Royal Society becomes so thoroughly
interwoven with the general history of science that it is manifestly impossible,
in a sketch necessarily confined within the narrow limits of the present, to do
more than touch upon a few prominent points illustrative either of the progress
of the Society or of the knowledge which it has cultivated.

On the 8th of February, 1671-’72, Newton communicated to the Society his
investigations respecting “light, refractions, and colors, importing light to be
not a similar, but a heterogeneous thing, consisting of difform rays.” For these
discoveries the author received the “solemn thanks” of the Society, at whose re- .
quest they were published in the Philosophical Transactions, being the first of
Newton’s productions which saw the light. His experiments had been made
in 1666, when he was only twenty-three years of age. No sooner, however,
was his theory of light given to the world than it was vehemently attacked,
both as regarded his conclusions and the accuracy of the experiments from
which they had been deduced; Hooke and Huyghens appearing among the
number of his assailants. So true is it, as Biot has remarked, that “by un-
veiling himself Newton cbtained glory but at the price of his repose.”

* Newton’s telescope, says Weld, was the first reflecting telescope directed to the heavens,
though James Gregory had previously (1663) described the manner of constructing one with
two concave specula. Newton perceived so great disadvantages in Gregory’s plan, that, ac-
cording to his own statement, ‘‘he found it necessary to alter the design, and place the eye
glass at the side of the tube, rather than at the middle.’’ Newton’s mechanical labors led to |
his being sometimes regarded abroad as a maker of telescopes, and we find him styled in a |
book of that period, Artifex quidam anglus nomine Newton. It is suggestive to consider into |
what gigantic proportions the instrument constructed by the Cambridge student has been
developed under the hands of Herschel and Rosse. Newton’s first telescope is nine inches
long; the length of Lord Rosse’s six-feet reflector is sixty feet.

|
|

|

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 145

Tn 1686 the MS. of Newton’s immortal work, Philosophie Naturalis Pron-
cipia Mathematica, was presented to the Society; and being accepted with
thanks, it was ordered ‘that the printing of the book be referred to the con-
sideration of the council, and that it be put into the hands of Mr. Halley to
make a report thereof.” The council, duly sensible of the slenderness of the
Society’s finances at that time, were glad to devolve upon Halley, who agreed
to accept it, the “ business of looking after and printing the work at his own
charge.’ In the course of the preparations for that purpose, it became neces-
sary for Halley to inform the author that Hooke claimed to have “some pre-
tensions upon the invention of the rule of the decrease of gravity being recip-
rocally as the squares of the distances from the centre,” though he admitted
the demonstration of the curves generated thereby to belong wholly to Newton.
When apprized of this claim, the illustrious geometer determined upon the sup-
pression of the entire third book of the Principia. ‘“ Philosophy,” he said, ‘is
such an impertinently litigious lady, that a man had as well be engaged in law-
‘suits as have to do with her. I found it so formerly, and now I am no sooner
come near her again but she gives me warning.’ In the controversy relative
to his optical discoveries he had written to Oldenburg: “I intend to be no
further solicitous about matters of philosophy, and therefore I hope you will
not take it ill if you find me never doing anything more in that kind.” It
required much remonstrance and entreaty on the part of Halley to induce New-
ton to abandon his intention of suppressing the third book, De Systemate Mundi,
without which the celebrated work might have borne the title, De motu Cor-
porum Libri duo. In view of all the circumstances it is difficult to deny the
justice of the remark made in Regaud’s Essay on the First Publication of the
Principia, that “it is hardly possible to form a sufficient estimate of the im-
mense obligation which the world owes in this respect to Halley, without whose
great zeal, able management, unwearied perseverance, scientific attainments,
and disinterested generosity the Principia might never have been published.”

Halley had been elected a Yellow of the Society in 1678, on his return from
his voyage to St. Helena, made chiefly with a view to astronomical observa-
tions, of which the fruit remains in his Catalogus stellarum australium, but
rendered subservient also to the science of terrestrial magnetism, of which he is
styled by a high authority the father and founder. “ ‘To him,” says Sir John
Herschel, ‘ we owe the first appreciation of the real complexity of the subject
of magnetism. It is wonderful, indeed, and a striking proof of the penetration
and sagacity of this extraordinary man, that with his means of information he
should have been able to draw such conclusions, and to take so large and com-
prehensive a view of the subject as he appears to have done.” Halley’s com-
munications to the Socicty on this subject consist of a chart, the first of its
kind, showing the variation of the compass, based on the idea of employing
eurves drawn through points of equal declination, and of papers published in
the 180th and 195th numbers of the Philosophical Transactions. In the last
of these occurs a striking passage, in which he expresses his belief “that he
has put it past doubt that the globe of the earth is one great magnet, having
four magnetical poles or points of attraction; near each pole of the equator two;
and that in those parts of the world which lie near adjacent to any one of those
magnetical poles, the needle is chiefly governed thereby, the nearest poles
being always predominant over the more remote.” Amid the efforts which are
now directed to this subject, it will not be uninteresting to observe with how
much modesty this early explorer defers the solution of his difficult problem
to later times. ‘The nice determination,” he says, “of this and of several
other particulars in the magnetic system is reserved for remote posterity ; all
that we can hope to do is to leave behind us observations that may be confided
_ in, and to propose hypotheses which after ages may examine, amend, or refute.”
And he proceeds to urge upon all navigators and lovers of natural truths to

s
146 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE

make or collect observations of this kind in all parts of the world, and to com.
municate them to the Royal Society, “in order to leave as complete a history
as may be to those that are hereafter to compare all together, and to complete
and perfect this abstruse theory.” |

Another science which at this era engaged the attention of the Society was |
geology, or, as it was then termed, “the Natural History of the Earth;” the
chief representatives of which, before the Society, appear to have been Dr!
Lister and Dr. Woodward. Of the former, Lyell remarks : “ He was the first
who was aware of the continuity over large districts of the principal groups
of strata in the British series, and who proposed the construction of regular.
geological maps.”’ Woodward published an essay towards a Natural History;
of the Earth, which attracted much attention and was elaborately reviewed ini
the Transactions. Dr. Whewell, moreover, has noted as “one of the most re-)
markable occurrences in the progress of descriptive geology in England, the for-*
mation of a geological museum by William Woodward as early as 16965.)
This collection, formed with great labor, systematically arranged, and carefully;
catalogued, he bequeathed to the University of Cambridge; founding and en-,
dowing at the same time a professorship of the study of geology. ‘The Wood-!
wardian Museum still subsists, a monument of the sagacity with which its
author so early saw the importance of such a collection.’”’*

An official connexion of the Society with the progress of astronomical obser-:
vations resulted from its relations to the observatory of Greenwich (founded(
1675,) of which, after having done much to sustain and advance it during the
many years while it remained neglected by government, the Society finally:
became the formal ditectors or visitors by royal warrant. Under this authority:
the Society are required to exact from the astronomer royal for, the time being
an account of the annual observations made, to inspect the instruments of the
observatory, and to superintend and, if deemed proper, to direct its operations.
If, therefore, so eminent an authority as M. Struve has singled it out as a point)
well worthy of remark and encomium, that the astronomers of this illustrious)
observatory have maintained one unchanged system or plan in their labors:
during the long period from the origin of the establishment to the present day,)
something of this uniformity may reasonably be aseribed to its connexion with.
and subordination to a fixed and self-perpetuating body like the Royal Society,

The application of steam, which in our day has acquired so astonishing a
development, did not fail to find among the early Fellows of the Society
at least one curious inquirer, whose speculations and projects are preserved im
the Transactions. Dr. Papin, inventor of the well-known digester for softening)
bones, and whose “ philosophical supper’’ prepared upon that plan may still be
enjoyed by the readers of Evelyn’s Diary, is noticed in 1690 as having in¥
vented a method of draining mines by the force of “ vapor,” in which, though
much was wanting to the practical perfection of the engine, the philosophical)
principle of the condensation as well as elastic force of steam is observed and)
pointed out. Ata later period Dr. Papin communicated to the Society an ex+
tension of this principle to the propulsion of boats “to be rowed by oars moved
with heat,” and had the honor of having his project referred to Sir Isaac
Newton, from whom it received a conditional approval.t

* Woodward, whatever his scientific merit, seems to have been of an irascible tempera-
ment. He was expelled from the council of the Society for insulting Sir Hans Sloane an
refusing to apologize. He fought a duel with Dr. Mead, occasioned by a dispute, as Voltaire
says, sur la maniere de purger un malade. Woodward's foot slipped and he fell. ‘* Tak
your life!”’ exclaimed Meade. ‘‘ Anything but your physic,” replied Woodward.

+The better known project of Savery, whose engine was able, through the introduction of
a vacuum, to perform double the work of that devised, at a sti!l earlier day, by the Marquis
of Worcester, was exhibited before the Society (1699, ) and the certificate granted by that body)
to the ingenious contriver, was the means of his obtaining a patent from the Crown for #
manufacture of steam-engines.—W eld, I, 357. |
:
|
;
|

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON 147

While the Society was thus pursuing its diversified and prosperous career,
Charles II, ‘founder and patron,’ had died, having entertained no inter-
course with the learned corporation during his later years, except to send it a
receipt for the cure of hydrophobia, compounded, after the manner of that
time, of as many simples (agrimony roots, dragon roots, star of the earth,
&e., &e.) as could well be disposed of in one preparation. Lord Brouncker
had resigned the presidency after fifteen years of acceptable service, and had
been followed in succession by Sir Joseph Williamson, (1677,) Sir Christopher
Wren, (1680,) Sir John Hoskins, (1682,) Sir Cyril Wyche, (1683,) Samuel
Pepys, (1684,) Lord Carbery, (1686,) Lord Pembroke, (1689,) Sir Robert
Southwell, (1690,) Lord Halifax, (1695,) and Lord Somers, (1698.) The
Society was soon to remove from the precarious quarters which it had here-

_ tofore oceupied to a house of its own in Crane Court, Strand, and, as appears by

one of its statutes, had found reason to place some further restriction on the too
indiscriminate and easy admission of Fellows.

On the withdrawal of Lord Somers, in 1703, Sir Isaac Newton was elected
to the presidency, the duties of which he continued to fulfil for 24 years with
exemplary punctuality. His treatise on Optichs was now presented to the
Society, a work prepared long before, but which he had decided to withhold
from publication during the lifetime of Hooke. The remark suggested by the
death of that able but morose and jealous man of science seems, therefore, to
be fully justified: La Société y gagne plus que la geometric n'y perd ; but, as
if the sensitiveness of Newton was doomed never to be freed from impor-
tunate molestation, the dispute respecting the authorship of the Infinitesimal
analysis soon supervened ; a dispute in which Newton, indeed, maintained his:
usual reserve, but which his own partisans, equally with those of Leibnitz, con-
ducted with so much asperity and prejudice that the contest might have seemed
one of honor or interest between Germany and England.* At the instance of
Leibnitz, a committee was appointed by the Royal Society, in March, 1712, to
examine the evidence bearing on the matter in question, and, in April following,
were submitted, in a report, the reasons which led the committee “to reckon
Mr. Newton the first inventor.” ‘That this did not satisfy or silence the parti-

sans of Leibnitz will be readily believed; but at this distance of time we may

acquiesce in the opinion pronounced by the historian of the Society, that
Newton was the zxventor of Fluxions as early as 1666, but that Leibnitz has
the merit of having first given full publicity to his discovery of the Differential
Calculus in 1673. ‘ Had Newton done this,” says Mr. Weld, ‘a controversy,
painful in its nature and unsatisfactory in its results, would have been avoided.
But all admit that he labored more for the love of truth than of fame; and
this is one of the reasons why Newton is the greatest of philosophers.”

This great man died.on the 20th March, 1727, being, perhaps, the only one
who has ever lived whose genius and virtues could sustain the exaltation of
his epitaph: S’b? grantulentur mortales tale tantumque exstitisse humani generis.
He was succeeded in the presidency of the Society by Sir Hans Sloane, who
had long acted as secretary and vice-president, and whose merits as a botanist,
habits of business and official assiduity, relieved the council of embarrassment
in a choice, even after Newton. Martin Folkes, (elected 1741,) Earl of
Macclesfield, (1752,) Earl of Morton, (1764,) James Burrow, (1768,) James
West, (1768,) Sir John Pringle, (1772,) bring down the succession in the

presidency to the protracted official term of Sir Joseph Banks, (1778—1820.)

There are points of interest, however, in this long interval, upon which it is
proper to touch even in so rapid a sketch as the present.

*M. Arago seems to have been willing to make France a third party to this memorable
competition, for, in his Notices Biographiques, vol. III, p. 522, he brings forward the claims
of ‘his countryman, Fermat of Toulouse, as an earlier inventor of the Calculus than either
Newton or Leibnitz.
JA% ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE

From an early date the Society seems to have labored under two especial
causes of embarrassment: want of pecuniary means, arising chiefly from the
failure of members to pay the stipulated contribution, and a constant tendency
to extend. the honor of membership to persons whose pretensions were of doubt-
ful validity. We learn with some surprise that, while a few were occasionally
exempted from the payment of the small weekly contribution, (among whom
at one time was Sir Isaac Newton,) there were many others of ample means
who suffered their liabilities to accumulate until the Society, to which no
doubt they prided themselves in belonging, was reduced almost to the point
of inaction. Nor does it increase our respect for this class of delinquents to
find that when, in 1728, the Attorney General had given his opinion that the
Society was authorized to sue for such arrears, and steps were taken for that
purpose, the liabilities were generally discharged and the Society placed in
comparative ease.* The extent of the second inconvenience may be appreciated
from a saying ascribed to D’Alembert, who, in allusion to the extreme prodi-
gality with which the honors of the Fellowship were distributed, used “jocularly
to ask any person going to England if he desired to be made a member of the
Society, as he could easily obtain it for him, should he think it any honor.”
The necessity, therefore, for some additional restriction being sensibly felt, the
Society sought legal advice as to their powers in that regard, and were advised
that, while their charter did not appear to authorize them to limit the Fellows to a
certain number, it clearly empowered them to describe and ascertain the quali-
fications of persons to be elected. A statute was thereupon enacted, which has
since been steadily observed, by which it is required that all candidates, except
peers and some other privileged persons, shall be proposed at a meeting of the
Society by three or more members, and that a paper signed by them and set-
ting forth specifically the qualifications of the candidate, “shall be fixed up in
the meeting-room at ten several ordinary meetings before the said candidate
shall be put to the ballot.” It appears that candidates were also expected to
send in a paper on the branch of science with which they were most conver-
sant.

Another but more occasional source of disquietude has been a jealousy
sometimes manifested of undue influence or irregular procedures on the part of
the presiding officer. ‘This exhibited itself to some extent even towards New-
ton in the course of the preliminary steps for the removal of the Society’s
quarters to Crane court; but it broke out with excessive violence against Sir
Joseph Banks, in 1784, upon the alleged charge of improper interference with
elections, and particularly of having favored the pretensions of naturalists in
preference to those of mathematicians. Groundless as this charge is shown to

have been,t and factious and overbearing as was the conduct of Dr. Horseley,

who, with very slender scientific pretensions, affected the leadership of the
mathematical party, this schism not only disturbed the harmony of the Society,
but seemed for a time to threaten its stability.

The influential part borne by the Society in the introduction of the reformed

calendar into England may render an allusion to it in this place not irrelevant. —

By this change, which took place on the 2d September, 1752, “ eleven nominal

days were struck out, so that the last day of old style being the 2d, the first ¢

of new style (the next day) was called the 14th instead of the 3d. The same

* Before the incorporation, ten shillings were required of members on the admission and a
weekly payment of one shilling. By the statutes of 1663 the initiatory fee is advanced to
forty shillings, the weekly payments remaining as before. In 1847 the former charge had
become ten pounds, and the weekly contribution been converted into an annual one of four

pounds, to be paid in advance, Liberty is given to compound for the whole by the payment,
in some cases, of forty, in others of sixty pounds. '

t See Lord Brougham’s Lives of Philosophers, p. 363,

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 149

legislative enactment which established the Gregorian year in England in 1752,
shortened the preceding year (1751) by a full quarter. Previously the eccle-
siastical and legal year was held to begin with the 25th March, and the year
A. D. 1751 did so accordingly; that year, however, was not suffered to run
out, but was supplanted on the Ist of January by the year 1752, which it was
enacted should commence on that day, as well as every subsequent year.’’*

The attempt to retrace here, even in the most summary manner, the philo-
sophical labors of the Society would suggest a starting contrast between the
narrow limits allotted to this outline and the vast field which it would be neces-
sary to traverse. How mere a catalogue of names and of terms would be the
result of any attempt to recall those achievements in every department of
natural science which have distanced imagination and rendered the fictions of
poetry tame and spiritless in comparison! Especially would this be the case
as we approached that wonderful era of discovery, the close of the eighteenth
century, which suggested to Cuvier the imposing retrospect with which he
opens the Eloge of Hatiy: “The laws of a geometry, as concise as compre-
hensive, extended over the entire heavens; the boundaries of the universe en-
larged, and its spaces peopled with unknown stars; the courses of celestial
bodies determined more rigorously than ever, both in time and space; the earth
weighed as in a balance; man soaring to the clouds or traversing the seas with-
out the aid of winds; the intricate mysteries of chemistry referred to certain
clear and simple facts ; the list of natural existencies increased tenfold in every
species, and their relations irrevocably fixed by a survey as well of their in-
ternal as external structure; the history of the earth, even in ages the most
remote, explored by means of its own monuments, and shown to be not. less
wonderful in fact than it might have appeared to the-wildest fancy: such is
the grand and unparalleled spectacle which it has been our privilege to con-
template!”} And in the realization of each and all of these surprising results
the Royal Society of London has borne its effective part, yielding to none in
the reflected lustre of its long line of brilliant names: its Herschels, Bradleys,
Maskelynes, Youngs, Priestleys, Daltons, Watts, Wollastons, Davys, Buck-
lands, Murchisons, Faradays, and Airys. For, as the illustrious savant just
quoted has elsewhere said with equal force and generosity, ‘‘ The philosophers
of England have taken as glorious a part as those of any nation whatever in
the labors of the intellect which are the common heritage of the civilized world ;
they have dared the ices of either pole, nor is there any nook of the two oceans
which they have not visited; they have multiplied tenfold the catalogue of the
kingdoms of nature; by them the heavens have been made populous with
planets, satellites, and stupendous phenomena; they have counted, so to say,
the stars of the galaxy; if chemistry has assumed a new face, the facts which
they have furnished have essentially contributed to the transformation; to them
we are indebted for inflammable air, pure air, phlogisticated air; they have dis-
covered the decomposition of water; new metals in large number have sprung
from their analyses; by them only has the nature of the fixed alkalies been
demonstrated ; finally, at their voice, mechanics has become pregnant with
miracles, and placed their country above all others in nearly every species of
productive industry.”

* Herschel’s Astronomy, p. 413. So great was the popular repugnance to the change of the
style or calendar, that the mob pursued the minister in his carriage, clamoring for the days
by which, as they supposed, their lives had been shortened; and the illness and death of the
astronomer Bradley, who had assisted the government with his advice, was attributed toa
judgment from heaven. It is also related that when the grandson of Lord Macclesfield, who

ad likewise been prominent in effecting the change of style, was standing a contested elec-
tion for Oxford, the mob insultingly called out to him, ‘‘Give us back, you rascal, those
eleven days which your grandfather stole from us.’”-—Weld.

t See Smithsonian Report, 1860, Memoir of Haity.

$ Cuvier, Eloge of Sir Joseph Banks.
150 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE

Among the incentives and rewards of scientific research employed by the
Society are three medals, derived from funds bequeathed or granted for that
yurpose. Ast. The Copley medal, the fruit of a legacy bequeathed in 1709 by
Sir Godfrey Copley, and termed by Sir Humphrey Davy “the ancient olive-
crown of the Royal Society,” being regarded as the most honorable within its
gift. ‘This has been annually awarded, with a few intervals, since 1736, in
conformity with a resolution then adopted by the Society, “that the medal
should be adjudged to the author of the most important scientific discovery or
contribution to science, by experiment or otherwise.’ It cannot but be peeu-
liarly gratifying to an American to find that when, in 1753, on the d ath of the
surviving trustee of the legacy, the adjudication devolved on the president and
council for the time being, the first award of the medal was made to Dr.
Franklin, On this occasion the Earl of Macclesfield, in his address as presi-
dent, stated that the council, “keeping steadily in view the advancement of
science and useful knowledge, and the honor of the Society, had never thought
of confining the benefaction within the narrow limits of any particular country,
much less of the Society itself.” The money value of this medal is five pounds,
and it bears as a legend the motto of the Society, Nullius in verba. 2d. The
Rumford medal, derived from the interest of a fund of £1,000, given by Count
Rumford, in 1796, for the purpose of promoting discoveries in heat and light.
This premium is duplicate, consisting of two pieces struck in the same die, the
one of gold, the other of silver, and by the terms of the gift is to be awarded
“once every second year.’ The device on this medal is a tripod with a flame
upon it, and the inscription from Lueretius, Noscere gue vis et causa. It is
gratifying to note that the first adjudication of this prize was justly made to
the founder himself, “for his various discoveries respecting light and heat,”
while the names of Malus, Fresnel, Melloni, and Biot, among later competitors,
show that this, too, is freely accorded to foreign merit. 3d. 'The Royal medal,
which, again, is duplicate, consisting of two gold medals of the value of fifty
guineas each, a beneficence projected by George IV in 1825, though not actually
realized till the reign of his successor. These medals, bearing on one side the
likeness of the reigning monarch, and on the reverse the figure of Sir Isaae
Newton, with emblematical accompaniments, are given for such papers only, on
important and completed discoveries, as have been presented to the Royal
Society, and inserted in their Transactions. Here, also, the distinguished names
of Struve, Encke, Mitscherlich, and De Candolle, in the list of recipients, ap-
prise us that this recompense has been liberally offered to the competition of
all countries.

The subjects for which these prizes have been awarded are almost too multi-
farious for classification, and afford no indifferent criterion of the astonishing
progress which has been made ‘since the day when the founders of the Royal
Society went forth to collect May dew for its supposed cosmetic virtues, or with
the Virgula divina in search of the hidden treasures of the earth.” Yet those
early inquirers are perhaps not less entitled to honor for the fidelity and hero-
ism (for heroism it was at that epoch) with which they adhered to experiment
amidst the difficulties and obseurity which surrounded them, than those who,
following them in the use of the same irresistible instrument, continued to press
forward with firmer and more rapid steps in the pursuit of abstract science, as
if conscious that in ¢iat and its applications rested the sole hope for mankind of
any real and sustained progression. Nor can cither of the two classes cited
justly claim pre-eminence over the intrepid explorers of to-day, who, undeterred
by the seemingly exhaustive research to which the heavens and the earth have
been subjected, still lift their minds to new and mightier enterprises, and, having
encircled the entire globe with observatories and observers, shrink not-from
grappling with problems as subtle and inconstant as magnetism or the winds,
and vast as the secular movements of suns and constellations.

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. 151

‘When we reflect,”’ says Mr. Weld, “on the benefits conferred on mankind
by the discoveries of modern science, Englishmen must feel an honest pride in
the fact that so large a proportion have emanated from the Fellows of the Royal
Society. Mor will that pride be diminished, when it is remembered that from
first to last the Society has received no annual pecuniary support from govern-
ment, nor assistance of any kind, beyond the grant of Chelsea College, shortly
after their incorporation, and more recently, the use of the apartments they now

occupy in Somerset House.* While the members of the French Institute re-

ceive a yearly stipend, the Fellows of the Royal Society pay an annual sum for
the support of their institution and the advancement of science. It would be
repugnant to the feelings of Englishmen to submit to the regulations of the
Institute, which require official addresses, and the names of candidates for ad-
mission into their body, to be approved by government before the first are
delivered or the second elected. ‘The French savans are, it is true, ennobled
and decorated by orders, which the wiser among them, in common with true
philosophers of any country, regard with indifference. Nobly did Fourier say
of Laplace: ‘ Posterity, which has so many particulars to forget, will little care
whether Laplace was for a short time minister of a great state. ‘The eternal
truths which he has discovered, the immutable laws of the stability of the world,
are of importance, and not the rank which he occupied.”

As a consequence of this independence and self-support, it was necessary that
the Royal Society should be numerous, and by a consequence not less necessary,
as Cuvier remarks, “ that, as in all political associations where the participation
of the citizens in the government is in inverse ratio to their number, those to
whom the Society intrusts its administration should exercise over its labors, and
to a certain extent over the course and progress of science, an influence more
considerable than can be readily conceived of by the academies of the conti-
nent.” That the Society has been fortunate in the zeal and ability of those
called to preside over it, will have been observed in the course of the preceding
sketch. It remains to be added that, on the death of Sir Joseph Banks, in 1820,
the chair was for a short time occupied by Dr. Wollaston,t followed in the same
year by Sir Humphrey Davy; by Davies Gilbert, in 1827 ;f the Duke of Sus-
sex, in 1830; the Marquis of Northampton, in 1838; Earl of Rosse, in 1849 ;
Lord Wrottesley, in 1854; Sir Benjamin Brodie, in 1858; and General Sabine,
in 1861. The latter still worthily occupies the chair. .

As something has been said above of financial embarrassments at an earlier
period of the Society, it is gratifying to state, on the authority of Mr. Weld,
referring to the year 1848, that this condition of things is wholly changed; be-
sides certain tracts of land, the Society then held in the public funds upwards
of £33,000; its income:being derived from rents, dividends, annual subscriptions,
admission fees, compositions, and sale of Transactions and Proceedings. The
number of Fellows, at the same date, was 821, of whom thirteen were honorary
and forty-seven foreign. ‘The library of the Society, then containing upwards
of 40,000 volumes, is extremely rich in the best editions of scientific books.
Fellows are allowed to borrow books under certain regulations, though still more
use is made of the library for purposes of reference. ;

The sessions of the Society commence in November and continue until June.
At the ordinary meetings, after the usual preliminary business, one of the see-
retaries announces the presents made to the Society, which are so numerous that

* Whither the Society removed in 1780.

tIn reference to the extraordinary tact and acuteness of Wollaston as a physicist, it was
said by Magendie that ‘‘his hearing was so fine he might have been thought to be blind, and
his sight so piercing he might have been supposed to be deaf.”

¢Mr. Gilbert will be remembered by Americans as having pronounced the eulogy on Smith
s0n, contained in the first Smithsonian Annual Report.
152 ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.

s

their titles fill, on an average, two folio pages weekly during the session.
Certificates of candidates for election are then read, and next such paper or pa-
pers as may have been communicated to the mecting. For these papers formal
thanks are returned, and they become thenceforth the property of the Society.
Discussion on the subject treated of in the paper follows, after which the meet-
ing is adjourned, and the Fellows repair with their friends to the library where
they partake of tea, a custom introduced, it is stated, by Sir Humphrey Davy.
A conversazione ensues, which lasts until about eleven o’clock. The council
meets monthly, or more frequently, if necessary. The scientific committees
assemble as occasion requires. ‘Those annually appointed are: Mathematics,
astronomy, physics, chemistry, geology, botany, zoology, and animal physiology.
The number of members varies from fifteen to thirty, the latter number repre-
senting that of physics which is the largest. The Philosophical Transactions
are generally published in two parts, (June and November,) which form a vol-
ume, though occasionally a third or even a fourth part appears. Besides the
Transactions, abstracts of the papers and minutes are published monthly, and
these, now extending to more than ten volumes, are entitled Proceedings of the

Royal Society.

Set Rae

ace

_

at ih

a

Se

pkssicy

A BRIEF SKETCH

OF THE

MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES,

BY CHARLES M. WETHERILL, PH. D., M. D.

Arter the electric current had been applied to the decomposition of inorganic
bodies, and it had been discovered that hydrogen, the metals, and the bases
appeared at the negative pole, while oxygen, chlorine, and the acids were mani-
fested at the positive pole, the assumption that electrical attraction was the
bond of union in chemical combinations was very natural, and the electro-
chemical theory growing out of these experiments became speedily adopted by
chemists. ‘The theory explained satisfactorily all known phenomena; it gained
additional support from the discovery that the chemical elements and com-
pounds were separated by electricity from their combinations in the ratio of
their equivalents. In those days it was assumed, and at the present time it
is manifest, that any theory not embracing organic as well as inorganie com-
pounds would be untenable, and hence arose the radical theory, first applied
to inorganic salts, but afterwards thoroughly studied and developed in respect
to organic compounds.

As the present sketch is intended less for chemists than for others who may
be confused at the appearance of the formule of organic compounds given in
modern chemical essays, the author may be pardoned in citing facts and
formulz trite to chemists. He would also take occasion here to aceredit to the
Lehrbuch of Graham Otto many of the illustrations, as well as some of the
arguments, employed in the present sketch.

The nature of electrical attraction renders the idea of b¢nary compounds in
chemistry imperative, if we assume that electricity is the bond of union in such
compounds.

Berzelius imagined the elementary atoms laden with electricity and with
positive and negative poles, but so that in the atom of one element the positive
electricity predominated, while in that of another element the negative elec-
tricity was in excess. ‘This excess of (+ or —) electricity communicated its
characters to the element, making it positive or negative. If two atoms of dif-
ferent electrical character are brought sufficiently near to each other, they
mutually attract each other, forming a compound atom, which is itself positive
or negative according to the predominance of one kind or the other of its
electricity. The new compound atom was, therefore, susceptible of further
attraction by another compound atom of different electricity, and so on, the
attraction becoming weaker,as the compound atom becomes more complex.

Ampére imagined the atoms of positive elements to have positive nuclei with
negative atmospheres or envelopes, and atoms of the negative elements to have
negative nuclei and positive envelopes. Hence a positive and a negative atom
upon coming together would mutually polarize each other; the + and — E of

their nuclei would draw them together to form a compound, and the + E of
154 THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.

their respective envelopes would be driven off and combine to produce the
electrical phenomena always attending chemical action.*

According to this view all chemical compounds are binary; they are

capable of being decomposed by the electric current, which attracts the atoms
from each other according to their character, the positive appearing at the
negative pole, the negative at the positive pole.

In writing formule the positive atom or atom group is placed BEFORE the

t- +- + =
negative one, thus: KO; SO3; KO, 803.7

The most complex formule are constructed according to this binary method.
In alum = KO SO, + Al, O; 3503 + 24HO the sulphate of potassa atom
is positive, and united to an electro-negative atom of sulphate of alumina to
form a still more complex atom of positive character, which is united to the
negative group of atoms 24HO. When, however, the atom becomes so com-
plicated, it is difficult to determine the electro-chemical character of its imme-

—— ee

* For views as to polarity in chemical compounds, see the excellent treatise upon the cata-
lytic force, by T. L. Phipson, Smithsonian Report for 1862, page 395.

ter the convenience of those whose memory may require refreshing as to chemical
symbols and combining quantities, or atomic weights, we subjoin the following table.

SYMBOLS AND PROPORTIONAL NUMBERS OF THE ELEMENTS.
(From Odling’s Manual of Chemistry. )

i leh wolinreyyi Oe na Ses se oe 1 Mg | Magnesium
Zn Time: gluse AG Ass SH
Fl Wliowme: 4 P52) ests 19 Cadi) |p}Cadmiumiy. fet assets
Cl (CIOMING. os 5h Sem see 35.5
Br SAWING Seesb assasemcaoes 80 He | Mereury, (Hydrargyrum) .. 100
I Modine See hseresete Haws 127 Pb Lead, (Plumbum)....------ 103.5
Ag Silver, (Argentum) ....--.-- 108
OPP POXVGEN 2-2 oc cesasecc 16*
Ss “SVT 0) UT SS Rie 9 pe aes 32* Cr Chromiumy. 32 4ss jee 26
Se SLE Ch Tee i = i ois SES 80* Mn | Macanese=-s.- feo sa ceee at
T Wellunrum S30 ss hs. 32 2 128* Fe Ton, (Chenu) tesee eee 28
. Ni Nickéli.,..05-53¢ ga5eeaeueee 29
N AARON e seein ce cote orste 14 Co Coballti*: 225 2 aeeeeereee 30
ie PHOSPNOUOUB cnn oo oe a 31 Cu _ | Copper, (Cuprum) --.--.---= 31.7
As USRTING wae ce Vans fet ese 7d |
Sb | Antimony, (Stibium) ...--. 120 Al Aluminum 25428 28262). 6.8 13.7
Bi Bismiathy foie ven seb eiac 208 Zr Aircon seco eee eee 33.5
Ce Centum 1, 4:2 sea eee 46
C Pu oy athe oe ath aeeeace a ily Ita) (bantam ae 47
Si SILICON. 2 eee ee see shay |\\\eeD, Didy minim eee 48
Ti pErtentonas PAaes Beets Ae 48. 5* || U Uranium sess ee ees Sie 60
Sn Tiny (Stannpums) L.'- 3522.4 118*
UE RT 2 138* Mo. | Molybdenum,.-2..-3-----.- 48
Vd Vanadium’. scesees eee 68.5
B Berons 222... pr a ee 11 W Tugsten, (Wolfram) ...---- Ee
Li Lithium.....- See eee 7 Au. .|. Gold, ( Aamrum)s-- taxis 2h-- 197
Na Sodium, (Natrium).....-.- 23
k Potassium, (Kalium)....-- 39 Ro JF aOoNGAN Se. SoS eee 52
: Rn) | Ruthenitiatsesee se ees =e 52
Ca) | Caleium.:-..5..2... 2222. 20 Pa | Palladian 9h f9800 122 2. 53
Sr BPPODURIO 2 aa Sethe! dn cceme 44
pe CTs Se 8 a 2 68.5 || Pt Platinompee eee eee ee 98.5
ay Ir [ridiommees secon s ctene 98.5
G Glucinum ......-......... 457 “08” || Ossie oe as 99.5
yy Vain este aes sk sect 32
Th J thai irnee See « See 59.5

* These elements have had their equivalents doubled to conform to the type theory.

3 =" a a

;

a ig tien

THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 155

diate constituents. In the above example the 24HO may be drivenoff by heat,

but not by electricity simply; and from other considerations it is impossible to

decide from analysis alone whether water is an acid or a base, as it possesses,
according to the substance with which it is combined, each of these characters ;

in oil of vitriol it is a base HO SO ; in hydrate of potassa, an acid KO HO.

There is still another method of imagining the grouping of. the atoms in a
complex atom to form a binary compound. ‘This involves the essence of the
radical theory.

SO; does not redden litmus nor form salts with bases; its compound with
HO (oil of vitriol) possesses this property. We may imagine this acid to be
HO, SOs, according to the principles just laid down; or to be H SOx, a binary
compound, in which His + and SO,is—. If for hydrogen we substitute potas-
sium or any metal, we will have sulphate of potassa or the salt corresponding to

_ themetal. SOy,zis, therefore, a compound radical in the sense in which the word

has been employed in chemistry, although it has not been isolated. When
water and anhydrous sulphuric acid are brought together, this compound radical
is generated by the decomposition of water in the manner illustrated above.

It is, however, more particularly in the case of the bases that the theory of
compound radicals has been developed.

The example of ammonia illustrates an inorganic compound radical; if, in-
deed, it may at present be called inorganic.

The gas ammonia NH; (in a manner analogous to that of anhydrous sulphuric
acid) acquires basic properties only by the action of water; NH3, HO—NH,O.
NUH, is the compound radical, ammonium. It has never been isolated; it is an
hypothetical group of atoms playing the part of a metal.

The following table illustrates the parallelism existing between compound
and simple inorganic radicals :

Comp. radical ammonia. Simple radical potassa.
= -- + =
ite CO } Oxide. ( K+0
NH, + S Sulphide. J K+5
NH, + Cl Chloride. Ki 4-04
NH, + SO, { Sulphate. K + SO,

When organic chemistry began to be developed, the compounds first studied
were those containing different proportions of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen,
together with a few containing nitrogen. ‘These were studied in their analogies
to inorganic compounds, and the assumption of a large number of organic
radicals became imperative. For example, if ether (Cy H;O) were the oxide
of a radical (Cy H;) called ethyl, the compounds of ether could be brought into
comparison with those of oxides of the different metals, (Cy H;,) being a com-
pound organic radical, which group of atoms plays the part of a metal, thus:

EC ete nes ie es en ee Cee (CyHs)

Ether aS fa teh NSE alates eke alm) Sal alls srals te ime) maha (CyH5)O

PAU Gy oa) 5 rays ls iB ele aie, (C,H;)O, HO

Whlorde) of ethy le. seca cys s0 -, 5,25 ae bate (CyH;)C1

Nitrate of the oxide jofethyle....-.....-...- (C,H;) O, NOs

Acetate of the oxide of ethyle.......... (CyH;)O,(CsH3)O3
Sulphate of the oxide of ethyle......... (CyH5)O, SO3
PUMPING: ACI a ie sta res yd aiming wey a's (CyH;)O, SO; + HO, SO;
Sulphovinate of the oxide of zinc ....... (CyH;)O, SO3 + ZnOSO;
En Ie ee ee Coes, ee eager K

C7 ER AR meer 2 Lea ne een KO

“Ebydrrages pia tagspyers viajes a aiergie iain aieye 20 6 KO, HO

(Chloride potassinit. so... act ceness--- KCl
156 THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.

Nitrate potassa........--------+---55- KO, NOs

Acetate potassa....--------------+---- KO, (CyH3)O3
Sulphate potassa.......----+----+--+-- KO, SO;

Bi-sulphate potassa.--..--.- ree | KO,SO, + HO, 503
Sulphate potassa and zinc....-.-------- KO,SO; + ZnO,SOxs

Upon this principle, and notwithstanding the fact that for a long time the
organic radicals were entirely hypothetical, the development of organic radicals
went pari passu with the study of organic compounds. The following illus-
tration shows how the organic acids were subjected to the radical theory.

a (C,H)O ....with radical acetyle.... (C,H)
Propionic ..... (C,H;)O3 e’. propyle ..- (Ogias)
Cs (CgH,)O3 a butyle -... (C,H)
Valerianic...-.- (CypHs)O3 i valyle. eres (CioHsg,) &e.

The theory is so simple, so well known, so satisfactory in the explanation
of the phenomena to which it is applicable, that the reluctance to abandon it,
especially by chemists educated under its influence, is natural. hat it has
been attacked vigorously, and almost to its fall, is owing to the present great
wealth of chemical compounds, and the discovery of phenomena which cannot
readily, if at all, be brought in subjection to it.

Daily the realm of chemistry is extending, and the boundary line between
organic and inorganic compounds is becoming more and more indistinct. If to
the atoms of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen has been assigned a
greater facility of mutual chemical attraction, the reason lies less, perhaps, in a
peculiarity of the nature of these atoms, than in the kind of experiments to
which they have been subjected. Continually, elements formerly called in-
organie are added to organic compounds, and it isnot too much to expect that
the same chemical attractions exist between all of the elements as between
C, H, O, and N iuter illis. If the right of combining, in indefinite number of
atoms, the original organic elements, gives rise to so many ‘ changes,” 7. €., com-
pounds, what would it be if each of the sixty-four elements could play an equal
part with these?

The number of possible chemical compounds would approach infinity, and
could only be conceived by the aid of comparison. It would be no exaggeration
to compare their number with the distance from the earth of the fixed stars ex-
pressed in feet, or even with the diameter of that great orbit in which our solar
system is supposed to be moving.

It is true that theories are not formed to mect future wants; but, nevertheless,
a general consideration that the radical theory was becoming daily insufficient
for the rapid increase of chemical facts, urged thoughtful men to invent a theory
which should, at least, generalize chemical compounds, and bring them into the
proper order and connexion to render their more perfect study possible. A
satisfactory theory has not yet been invented, and chemists are loath to aban-
don totally the electro-radical theory for that of types pure and simple.

While the radical theory was in a very flourishing condition, certain newly ob-
served plienomena demonstrated that we could substitute electro-negative chlo-
rine for clectro-positive hydrogen in a compound without changing the chemical
character of the body to a great extent. Thus, by the action of chlorine (Cl)
upon olefiant gas, (Cy H,,) four Dutch chemists had many years ago discovered a
peculiar compound, which has received the name of Dutch liquid, and whieh
has the composition Cy Hy Cl. When upon this body the action of chlorine
was continued, supported by sun light, it was discovered that a series of liquids
could be obtained having the same character as Dutch liquid, but differing in
that the hydrogen was replaced atom by atom by chlorine, thus:

THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 157

Dutch liquid C,H,Cl, == (C,H,)Cl,
int saBeHiition C,1140l. — (c. { op) Ch

2d ee C,H.ClL, — (c, { ae
3d «GHC = (Gf Gch
4th ¢ C,Cl, —— (C4Cl4)Cl,

If upon the members of this series an alcoholic solution of potassa act, one
equivalent each of hydrogen and chlorine is separated, and we obtain the fol-
lowing compounds:

From Dutch liquid C,HyCl, we obtain Gas? }

“ 1st substitution C,H;Cl,  “ Cee }
2

“6 2d 73 C,H,Cl, ‘““ Caer,
ae 3d ss C,HCl,; ve C,Cl,;

which demonstrates that in Dutch liquid and its chlorine compounds the latter
element exists in two conditions: one in which it takes the place of hydrogen,
atom by atom, and another in which it unites with carbon and the compound
atom thus formed. In other words, the negative atom of chlorine drives out
and takes the place of the positive atom of hydrogen. To bring these phe-
nomena in accord with the former electro-chemical theory, we would have to
assign to the atom of chlorine a preponderating positive and a negative charac-
ter at the same time, which was deemed inadmissible.

The same difficulty occurred with respect to the negative atom oxygen, to
which, according to some, a place had to be assigned sometimes inside of the
positive radical.

The behavior of acetic acid with chlorine gas in sun-light affords a strik-
ing example of the substitution of Cl for H. By this reaction, from Cy Hy O,
(acetic acid) there arises, by the substitution of chlorine for hydrogen, chlor-

F F It : ; :
acetic acid, { C, Gl } OF ) and between the two acids there is a great chemi-
3 ;

cal similarity. They each saturate the same amount of base, and when acted upon
by the same reagents, give rise to analogous products. Thus, by heating with
excess of alkali, acetic acid becomes carbonic acid (2 C Oz) and light carburetted
hydrogen, (Cz H,,) while by the same treatment chloracetic acid becomes

2C Oj and ©, Cl. } or chloroform, which may be regarded as light carburetted

hydrogen, in which a portion of the hydrogen is replaced by chlorine. By the
action of nascent hydrogen, chloracetic acid is regenerated to acetic acid. It
is true that these difficulties might be reconciled by the assumption of both a
‘negative and positive character being assumed under different circumstances
by the same atom. This must be done in certain instances to bring the mod-
ern type theory in accord with the electro-chemical theory, and, indeed, the
experiments of Schoenbein upon ozone, and the phenomena of the action of
certain bodies in the ‘nascent’ state, would render this assumption not un-
likely ; but the immediate result of the experiments cited was to hold the
electro-chemical theory in abeyance, and to develop the theory of types.

The first type theory was a theory of the class¢fication of chemical com-
pounds, and was analogous to the natural history system of classification into
orders, genera, and species. ‘There was a “molecular” or “mechanical” type

AS THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.

which corresponded to the “order ;” a “chemical” type to the “ genus ;” and

the various members under the same chemical type corresponded to the

“* species.”’
Compounds of the same molecular type consisted of the same number of

atoms; but not in binary groups, as the electro-chemical theory required.

Under each molecular type were the chemical types, consisting of the same ~

number of atoms (as before) but similarly arranged. ‘The individuals of the
same chemical type consisted of the same number of atoms, similarly arranged,
but differing in the kind of atoms. ‘The following example will illustrate the
theory :

MOLECULAR TYPE OF TWELVE ATOMS...

ss einai Acetic acid.....- CG, Etro Individuals of 1st chemical
1st chemical’ type { Chloraceticacid. Cy Cl, HO, type...
Sa chesiesl ivat Wictolol 84 Feu CG, Hs Og Individuals of 2d chemical
i apie ype { Mercaptan..... ©, Hg 8S. type.

These all belong to the same molecular type of twelve atoms. The first
two and the last two belong, respectively, to the same chemical type; the atoms
are regarded as being similarly arranged, because acetic and chloracetic acids,
on the one side, and alcohel and mercaptan on the other, bear a great analogy
to each other in their compounds and in the products of their decomposition by
the same reagents. The following method was adopted for writing the for-
mul according to this theory:

Weetie acid be BAe eee M4 me O,
Chloracetic acid........... OT O
Acetate of potassa......--- C4 a } O.
Acetic ether? s/o: 24 Salen ee C4 1a.) } O,
Chloracetice ether ......-.- Cz (CH) } Ox
The following contain Cz H, Oy, but the atoms are arranged differently
Bubyiie seid’ ns eee a oe bo,
ACetic ether sch. ciiayert ede C, Galt) } Ox
Propionate of methyle....... Co (Cath) } Or

It will be observed that chlorine, in the type, takes the place of the upper
hydrogen atoms and potassium, and the radicals the place of the lower ones,
thus indicating the different nature of the several hydrogen atoms in the type;
and, further, that this theory Was obliged to assent to the idea of “ radicals,”
namely, groups of atoms playing the part of single atoms.

The type theory met with many supporters, some of them the best thinkers
which have enriched modern chemistry ; it met with many variations, some
of which penetrated far into the realms of fancy; but it would probably have
fallen into disuse had not the discovery of the compound ammonias directed
the attention of the chemical world to this method of imagining the constitution
of chemical compounds. -

At the same time that attention to this subject was arrested, homologous
series were discovered, (by a type theorist,) and important laws with respect,
to them, such as the relative boiling points of their members, their vapor den~

sf |

ie

ent

THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 159

“sity, atomic volume, &c., became known; out of which accessions to our knowl-
‘edge was developed the modern type theory.

The compound ammonias are bases bearing a very great analogy to ammo-
nia, their salts being strictly analogous. By the former radical theory it would
be impossible to assign to them satisfactory formule ; but by the assumption
that they are constituted after the pattern or type of ammonia, their formula
become very simple. ‘They are ammonias, in which one or more atoms of hy-
drogen are replaced by one or more radicals, thus:

H
Type H ¢ N= Ammonia.
fi
Ethylamine. Diethylamine, Triethylamine.
(C,H;) (C,H) (C,H)
H §N. (C.H;) $N. (O.H;) SN.
H H (C,H)

The laws alluded to above which enable a more correct conception of the
chemical constitution of bodies are as follows:

1. The law of even atoms.—TVhe remarkable fact has been discovered that
(the eqivalents of O and H being 8 and 1) by~ far the greatest number of
organic compounds contain an even number of carbon atoms; further, that the
sum of the atoms of hydrogen, chlorine, iodite, bromine, nitrous oxide, (N O,,)
nitrogen, and metal is an even number; which is also true for the sum of their
oxygen and sulphur-atoms. For example, in Benzoic acid Cy, Hs O4 the number
of carbon atoms is an even number, and so is that of the hydrogen and of the
oxygen atoms.

2. The law of atomic volume.—The greater portion of organic compounds ex-
perience in the vaporous condition a condensation during the combination of
their elements to four volumes—in other words, in the state of vapor their
atom occupies four times the volume of an oxygen atom. ‘This. law, it will be
remembered, is seen by comparing the quotients arising from a division of the
equivalents of compounds by the specific gravity of their vapors, and gives the
result that the atomic volume of the atoms of the elements and their compounds
bear a simple relation to each other, as may be seen from the following table
which is quoted from its bearing upon the type theory :

Names of bodies. Symbol. Division of the | Relative atomic| Atomic volume,
equiv. by the volume, Oxygen=1.
Sp. gr. of vapor.
Suiphur oe eae wees bene eee ee re Lae ee ifs 2.41 4
ROS Oe Ss Os2as5 rive ee 1
PMOSDNOTUS S255 ja be qe sse Bese shas aes aiiz 7,22 2
A ee ee je TES pees poyss 14, 44 2
Meropen =2-2icic.c......4s.- Ne aSse |. aids 14. 44 2
ES ere 5) i eae Pies 14.44 2
SOULS SS 8 ee a Bie) osss £or 14.44 2
Meee es ee to eh [id ala a a L271. 14.44 2
antes tee et HOUT oes SS OMe ei vers 14, 44 2
Sulphuretted hydrogen. ....-.-.- RS Fi 2 ce ejnte ot 14, 44 2
Colon st i ee CORAs 22 30 re 14. 44 2
Protoxide of nitrogen......---- INGE EE. 8 2 ba Te 14. 44 2
Deutoxide of nitrogen...-..--.- IN@s ss 5 oo : Hos 28. 88 4
Hydrochloric acid: ....2...:--.- HOMES Case pit, 28. 88 4
PMPIION ee oie ss aim o-o aS NIG Fs a ab bg 28. 88 4
Chloride of ethyle--.---...---- Ons ia( OH See miele 28. 88 4
Beene acid. =... ee CLO... biti 28, 83 4
Valerianate of ethyle.-....---- CaeeOne #22 28. 88 4

160 THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.

So closely do chemical compounds conform to this law that it is used daily —
to control vapor density determinations ; the experiments show whether the a
condensation is to 1, 2, or 4 volumes, and whether, accordingly, the equiva-—
lent of the body is to be divided by 7.22, 14.44, or 28.88, to calculate the den- _
sity of its vapor. The calculation is more accurate than the actual experiment _
on account of the superior accuracy by which the equivalents have been deter- —
mined. ‘The law of even atoms, and the observation that in most organic com-
pounds the condensation is to 4 volumes, serve often to determine the formule _
of organic compounds. ‘Thus, to acetone was formerly assigned the formula ~
C, H, O, which satisfies neither law; by doubling its formula (and there is
no chemical reason to the contrary) it becomes Cg Hg O2, which satisfies both laws.
For the same reason the formula of ether (C4 TI; O) may be doubled to Cg Hy Oo.

Again: it has been doubted from its origin and chemical behavior whether
amyle obtained from amylic alcohol (Cy) Hy, Oy) should have the formula Oy
Hy; or Cx Hy; but the latter formula agrees with the law of even atoms, and
with a condensation to four volumes.

3. The law of homologous series —Another law influencing strongly the de-
termination of chemical formule, and which is one of the most remarkable
among the discoveries of modern chemistry, is that of homologous series.

©

The following is an example : F °

Serres (C, Hy x2.)

Bodics. Formule. ‘Boiling point.| Sp. gr. at | Sp. gr. of
H 00 C. vapor.

Mitwinbubyle2. 25202... 2... { = a sen OFF eee 62°C.| 0.701 2.9m

Bithyle/amyle:---!..-.----.--- eke 4 , = Oni geee} 85° 0. 707 3. 46

Me ort ee... 3G ae $C H---| 108° | 0.716 | 3.94

Perio INV IOS. - 2 a2 54 -. =o oe = == \Gys Hgoe =|) ye oe 0. 725 4, 42
Cio H ‘ rm

TED ga Oe oe eee $= Ca His, 2 owalase 0.741 4,91

The members of this series are subject to the “same law ;’’ they advance
from the lowest by an increment of C2 H,. A general formula for the series
would be C,, H(, + 2,) n being an even whole number. ‘Their boiling points
as well as their specific gravities in the liquid and in the vaporous condition
rise gradually. We have, from its position in this series, an additional reason
why amyle should have the formula Cy) Hy, and not Cy Hy. Indeed, as may
be scen in the table, amyle is regarded as having (in combination) Cy) Hy, but,
when i the free state, two of its atoms are joined together to form a compound
atom Ox, Hy». ‘The following are additional illustrations of homology . |

I. Hyprocansons. H It. Actps.

oe EA Cer Che
Diibplene ue Le... Se Geeta, |) EM ormicy:. sau siesta: fest he's ov Gs Hig,
Propplete eee So. t Cs. He |. Acetic .... < cpsteeieeee nie C, Hy Og
Dutvidiiewse 22.2. <)> See Ge Hy.) Propionic spe eee wee eee Cg Hg Og

Amy lene ee eee ae caee Cio Hy Butyric eo on oo Us Hy, Ox :

PLDC TIO = 5 GN cs tie win ets ene Cy Hy Valerianic..... eee we cls ors Cio Hy Orn
Palmitic . .» <t/ccgnsa Scone Laan
Stearic ...... a= sewenese C35 Hog O4
THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 161

III. Aucouois IV. Basss. V. HypRocarsBons.
©, E(w'4eH03) C, Ha _5N) unael!'B5
Formylic .... C, H, O, | Aniline..... C,.H, N | Benzole ....... Cy He,
Ethylic -.... C,H. O: || Voludine ...-) Cig lo iN, | Toluole 23... Cy, H,
Propylic.... Cs; H; O, | Xylidine... Cig Hi, N | Xylole.......- Cig Hin
mtynie ..... Cs Hy O2 | Cumidine... CygHj3;N | Cumole ....... Cis Hy
memylc...... Cio Hip O2 | Cymidine-.. Cy His N | Cymole ....... Coo His

ee |

Aethalic .... C2 Hs, O.

The most remarkable phenomenon connected with homologous series is not
the uniform law according to which the formule are developed; but that the
successive increment of the atoms Cz H» contributes to a certain regularity of
physical and chemical character; thus, neighbors in the series have greater
analogy to each other than to more distant members. The acids and alcohols
quoted advance (at the normal temperature) by degrees from liquids to solids ;
and chemically, formic and acetic acids on the one hand, and palmitic and ste-
aric acids on the other are analogous. The boiling points increase with regu-
larity ; for example, in series II and III every addition of C, Hz adds 19° C.
to the boiling point. Though this regularity of boiling point applies to other
series, the difference is not the same for all; thus in series V every increment
of C, H, adds 24° C. to the boiling point.

It would create too great a diversion from the main object of the present
article to enter further upon the nature of homologous series. ‘The curious law
may, however, be cited with respect to certain series of acids, ethers, and alco-
hols, viz: that if two of them have an equal number of hydrogen and oxygen
atoms, and one has X more atoms of carbon, the latter will boil at X 14.5 degrees
centigrade higher. For example:

Benzoic acid, Cy, Hs Ox; boiling point, 253°

Propionic acid, Cg Hg O,; o 137
Difference, Cg Se eo 116°

Angelica acid, Ci) Hg O4; boiling point, 185°

Butyric acid, Cs Hs, O4; te 156°
Difference, Cy, 9 96-14-6-=—=--- 29°

On the other hand, if the number of atoms of carbon and oxygen is the
same, and one compound contains X equivalents less of hydrogen, its boiling
point will be X 5 C.° higher.

Angelica acid, Cy Hs O4; boiling point, 185°
Valerianic acid, Cyo Hy O,; ee 175°

Difference, H, 2 10°

Not only are the members of the same series subjected to one and the same
law, but some of the series are connected with each other. The importance of
this fact is very great, since it enables a systematie grouping of chemical com
pounds. From the character of well-studied bodies, and from the analogies
alluded to, we are able to pronounce a judgment upon the chemical constitution,
nature, and behav::: of new bodies.

This connexion of the series is as follows:

From alcohol C, Hg O2 we may obtain by the addition of oxygen, and by the
subtraction of hydrogen, acetic acid, (Cy Hg Ov) + Oy = (Cy Hy Og) + 2 HO.
Hence, in general terms, if from the series (C, H +2) Oz) we subtract Hy», and
add O, = (C, H,, O,) we obtain an acid analogous to acetic acid. Moreover,

s
162 THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.

by subtracting 2 H O from (C, Ha+e) O,) we obtain C, H,, or the series of
hydrecarbons (I.) Ethylene is thus actually obtained from alcohol.

Again, from every acid of the series C, H,, O, we may obtain an amide C,
Hf (n+1) N Op.

The law of homology conduced strongly to the type theory by contributing
a better knowledge of the chemical constitution of bodies. By its study, radi-
cals containing oxygen were definitely accepted. Thus, (in series II,) acetic
acid (Cy H, O,) is not formed from ethylene (C, Hy) by the addition of O,, but
from alcohol (Cy Hg Oz) by the addition of O., and by the subtraction of H2 in
such manner that the radical (C4 H O2) is formed ; which makes acetic acid (C4
H, O,) = (Cy Hy On) H O,. As a proof of the existence of such a radical in
acetic acid, we may obtain its compound with chlorine by the action of oxychlo-
ride of phosphorus upon acetate of soda, and we may restore this chlorine com-
pound to acetic acid by the action of water upon it.*

(NO,) is another radical containing oxygen. By acting upon benzoie acid
so as to substitute (NO,) for hydrogen, we have nitro-benzoic acid—that is, Cy,
H, O; becomes Ci H; (NO,) Ox.

These considerations have been leading us gradually to the ideas of modern
chemical types. Such a type is a group of atoms of which the individuals bear
a certain relation to each other, and forms a pattern for imagining all chemical
compounds, between the atoms of which a similar relation is supposed to exist.
It may be illustrated by certain blocks glued together, or by a cage of wire with
compartments, in which the blocks may be placed, thus:

THE TYPE—WATER.

Examples of the type of water:
Sulphuretted Hydrogen. Hydrate of Potassa.

Acetic Acid.

i

THE MODERN THEORY OF CEEMICAL TYPES. 163

The four compounds represented above are supposed to be constituted after
the pattern of water, which is the type. Thus, if the oxygen atoms of the type
are replaced by sulphur atoms, we have sulphuretted hydrogen.

If, in the type, we substitute for the hydrogen block, upon the left hand, a
potassium block, the result is hydrate of potassa. If, on the other hand, we re-
move a right-hand block of hydrogen, and substitute a block representing the
radical acetyle, we have acetic acid. And if we replace each hydrogen block
of the type, one with a potassium block and the other with an acetyle block,
there results acetate of potassa.

In the above illustration the compounded blocks are of one size, thus repre-
senting a volume of four oxygen blocks, and conforming to the law of conden-
sation of organic compounds to four volumes. We must bear in mind that the
individual blocks may be larger than an oxygen block when outside of the
type, though condensed to the size of such block in the compound. For ex-
ample, 2 volumes of oxygen+4 volumes of hydrogen == 6 volumes, which are
condensed, by combination of’ the gases, to 4 volumes of vapor of water.

Hydrogen constitutes another type, thus:

HYDROGEN TYPE.

Benzole and Acetone examples of this type are represented thus:

Benzole. Acetone.

164 THE MODBRN THRORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.
# *

_ Ammonia gives another type, thus:

AMMONIA TYPE.

Ethylamine and Aniline are examples of this type, and are thus represented :

Ethylamine. Aniline.

eee
iE

The sezes of these hydrogen and ammonia types are equal to that of the
water type, viz: four volumes.

With this preliminary illustration the following table (from Graham Otto’s
Lehrbuch) may be quoted :

165

THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.

“OTUPLUB.YINT

‘oprmeznog ‘oprmeyooy | ‘oprure; Aueqd-;Aozueq-1q, | ‘ourmmeyAqyo-11y, | ‘amrureyAqyo-1q | ‘oururep Ay ‘omray
H H Ot ip) | Ae 48) it | H H H
‘N H ‘N H ‘N4 *O pee lily ‘Ny “7H *O ANS EL "N H ‘N H
0 °H MO £0 *H 9 | a9) | HD "HO | sae) (ON) "H "9 °H 9
| !
H
"NS H—N‘°H VINOWNY dA], FHL OL DNIGUOONOVY SaNnodWog
H
| |
“prow ‘prow ‘apAqo ‘oA | m08
“aUILOTY) aTyooRLOTYD | omoppoorpAyy ‘ap£yopty | jo apruekg | jo opmoryo *9T10]00 ‘a Aq ‘gjozueg | -orpAy op Ayyopr
31 ae "Ht *D } H ; H ee ea ; BEDS) pee oe 9) ioe ae)
10 ite) 10 *O °H 70 N°O | ite) *0 “H*O ils 26, | H H
|
= = “TT NHDOUGAF, AdA YT, AHL OL ONIGUOOOY SANNOdWO/)
"pine “prow ‘ay Aq0 ‘at Aq0 JO apt orAq}0
dLyIa snorpAyuy | ooo snorpAyuy | Jo oprxojooywurdy | -xo Jooyryoovs10[qD | Jooprxo jo SSID, OTOL “IOT]O VSSv}Oq “BSSBIOT
04 S*ON “ ae HO “ i Me. “t y Be 2) “ $0 sisi o) “ : ae i) “6 ye uo) “6 —
oN OY 0 'H "9 CO’ ND Oot | Ort0 HD Ol 9 A gs Oya
‘op Aty9 ‘ap Aya jo ‘oy Ayyout “r0T]}9 “TUN TTOUIUR
‘plow ooovrI0[yO “plow O1e0V | JO oprxo Jo oyV.YIN | Oprxo Jo oyvozueg | Jooprxo Jooywyooy | o[Aq}0 ecto ‘oyoory | Jo oprxo oyerpAéTT
7) gL “ iH % . a) 2 ; 1349) “ ; as Be) “ pee WO “ fe 40) “ a
©2 % tH 9 ©? 0H 9 ©? "on 20 'H FD ©2*0 HD Ov °H 9 ot Oy
*PlO’ OLIN “plow OTULIO iT ‘essnyjod oyRIyI NT ‘essvjod oynjooy | “eImouUe oR}OW ‘qjouNy ‘yrds pooay | “essvjod oyerpApT
“6 “ H se 9. “ ; bit re } HN So HO “ eH vo) te ; pi!
of dh 0} colt 0} son O°} OH "0 02° "HD OVS ai 2 oi ovr
“of H=% FT = AALVMA AdAT, AHL OL ONIGNODOW SaNaAodWwoy

166 THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.
°

The table illustrates the method of writing the formule of bodies according
to the types of water, hydrogen, and ammonia, to which they respectively belong.
Determinations of the specific gravities of the vapor of water and of hydrogen
show that the formule H O and H (O =8 and H = 1) agree to a condensation of
‘wo volumes. In order, therefore, to make types of these bodies, their formule
must be doubled so as to correspond to a condensation of four volumes, which
is the atomic volume of the greater part of organic compounds.

The formula for ammonia N Hz already corresponds to four volumes, e. g.,
2 vols. N+6 vols. H=8 vols. condensed to 4 vols. N H3.

It will be observed that, in the table, compounds of a basic character are
placed to the left hand, those of acid nature to the right hand, while salt or
neutral bodies occupy positions in the middle of the table.

It will be observed, further, that in the formule of the bodies according to the

types a } O, and . } the electro-negative elements are placed in the bracket

to the left hand, and these are distinguished into a superior atom of hydrogen,
capable of being replaced by chlorine, &c., or an acid radical, and an inferior
atom of hydrogen susceptible of being exchanged for a metal or basic radical,
while the electro-negative elements, oxygen, sulphur, &c., occupy positions to
the right hand, outside of the bracket.

The relations existing between anhydrous or hydrated acids or bases; the
difference between hydrogen acids and oxygen acids ; the nature of acid, base, or
salt, are more readily perceived by a close examination of the table than by the
most extended description. It will be seen by this inspection how the ammonia

salts are represented. ee } Oz, is the acetate of ammonia. By adding H
H

to the type ammonia we have a new type s N, ammonium, which enables
H

the formation of salts, according to the ammonium theory, by introducing this new
type into the type of water. Thus diethyle-methyle-amyle-ammonium would be

C. He H 7 C, H; O2

CG, a: C, H; t C, Hs

C. IL. N. Its hydrated oxide C, H; N Oy». Its acetate C, H; N On.
C. I. C. H; i Cz H; :

—— Cy) Hy Cyo Hn

The homologous series may thus be generalized by this system of nomencla-
he H :
ture—e. ¢., ordinary alcohol is ; Oz; bo is any alcohol, and
E : C.Hs§-?? Cn Hayy f 7 ™

‘

On axle a } any corresponding acid of the same homologous series.
Another principle, which has been adopted in the type method, consists in

the assumption of radicals capable of replacing H, or H; in the types. Such

radicals are diatomic when they replace Hy, and are represented thus, (/’,) and

triatomic (’’’) when they replace H;; and the types of water, hydrogen, and

ammonia are doubled or trebled to form new types by which bibasie or tribasic

acids or salts may be represented. Thus:

BIBASIC ACIDS,

Type. Sulphuric acid. Succinie acid. Tartarie acid.
H; S, O,!' C;.8y OL! ) o
11, | Ou tH, $ Oe en oy oe ‘i Pe } Os

TRIBASIC ACIDS,
Type. Phosphoric. Meconic, Citric.

i : P O. mt GO H O mt 1 tH
LO, Hy } 0s arta }0.. eee

> a
: * ¥ s
a

THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES. 167
~
The following are examples of the duplication and triplication of the hydro-
gen and ammonium types : :
Type. Chloro-sulphuric acid. Chloride of succinyle.
H, , S2 Oo } Cz Hy, Ou t
H, Cl, 12
Type. : Succinimide.
H, C, Hy O04!
H, No. * H, No.
H, H,
Type. Oxychloride of phosphorus.
ine P O,!
H3 Cl;
Type. Citramide.
H; Ci2 Hs On!”
Hz e Nd. Hi; N3.
3 Hy

These derived types are connected with the primary types by the hypothesis
that a “polyatomic” radical may replace several atoms of hydrogen in the
primary type. Thus—

Type. Anhydrous sulphuric acid. Anhydrous succinic acid.
pO: Sx Oe" On, Cy Hy" Op
Tyne. Sulphurous acid.
5) S00 |
Type. | Succinimide.
11 N. se ak oee ese
H

The following examples illustrate the use of the type method of expressing
a chemical reaction—e. g., that of hydrochloric acid with hydrated oxide of
ammonium.

By the former method it would be—

i NH,0+HCI=NH,C1+HO
By the type method—

H cly — 1 H
wu,fOt+ nf=nuft Hye
Again: by the action of oxychloride of phosphorus upon acetate of soda,
chloride of acetyle is formed together with phosphate of soda, which reaction
___ is represented.
By the former method—

13 6,61, — 3 CN: 0; C, H; Os) — 3 N,0O, P O; a 3! (C4 H; Oz) Cl.

By the type method—
dig O,!"' C, H; Oz a. P O,!” 9 Cy Hi; Oz
Cl, ris ( Na On) = Na Vos +3 { Cl.

Some regard the type method of imagining a body as essential in the nature
of matter; to these the type of the same body is invariable, with which, if

¥
168 THE MODERN THEORY OF CHEMICAL TYPES.

phenomena agree not, the reason is sought, and the correct type determined by
experiment. ;

But others employ this method as a means of comparing chemical reactions,
and as suggestive of new experiments. Such write formule sometimes according
to the old nomenclature, and sometimes take great liberties with the types, |
viewing the same body in different types 7 for example, taking aldehyde
(C, H, O,) according to the type es thus: 4 et et or, according to the
type a O2, thus: 44 Op.

ce ON Gk di eat

A very serious defect, in.my opinion, in the type method is that it places the
hydrogen acids and salts in a different type from the oxygen acids and salts;
while the analogies existing between these acids and salts furnish urgent reason
why they should have the same constitution, which similarity chemists have
always labored to discover. Itis not fair to constitute a type ammonia founded
on the chemical analogies of it and the compound ammonias, and at the same
time place hydro-chloric and nitric acids in different types. And yet, by the
present method, they cannot come in the same type, because, first, oxygen can-

not come in the hydrogen type, tt ; <a ; and second, in the water-type

z O, the oxygen outside of the bracket is differently combined, compared

with the oxygen of an oxy-radical replacing H. Thus nitrate of potassa must

be a } Op», and not yes : } , (since Oy and Oy are differently combined,) and

chloride of potassium can only be =

In concluding the subject, it may be observed that by the former method of
writing formule, the binary nature of chemical compounds, owing to the polarity
of their atoms, was kept prominent; while this is not the case with respect to
type formulz, although in these the polarity of the atoms is not denied, but
kept in subordinate view. "

Whatever be the faults or merits of the type method, it has, by placing bodies
before us in a new relation, suggested experiments (which, perhaps, would not
have been otherwise suggested) which have led to important discoveries. At the
present time, not to understand this method of writing formule is to be excluded
from following the course of modern chemical progress.

RESEARCHES ON THE PHENOMENA

WHICH CHARACTERIZE AND ACCOMPANY

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY

IN HIGHLY RAREFIED ELASTIC FLUIDS.*

BY PROFESSOR A. DE LA RIVE.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Memoires de la Société de Physique et
d@’ Historie Naturelle de Geneve, tome XVII, 1863.

I was led in 1849, in my first memoir on the aurora borealis,t to show that:
the electric light which is produced in a vacuum of from four to five millimetres
is obedient to the action of the magnet. I subsequently found that this experi-
ment, in which, to produce electricity, I at first used an ordinary electric instru-
ment, and then the hydro-electric machine of Armstrong, succeeded still better
with Ruhmkorff’s induction apparatus. The employment of this apparatus
has since supplied the means of studying in a surer and more commodious
manner the propagation of electricity in rarefied gases, and thus the assurance
has been obtained that, while an absolute vacuum will by no means transmit
electricity, the presence in any space of the smallest quantity of ponderable
matter in the state of an elastic fluid suffices for such propagation. ‘To the con-
clusive experiments of M. Gassiot we essentially owe the demonstration of this
important principle. It has been observed that the transmission of electricity
through elastic fluids is effected with more or less facility, according to the na-
ture and density of the fluid, and that it is accompanied, when the gas is very
much rarefied, by an appearance which has been called the stratification of
electric light, consisting in the phenomenon of a succession of strata alternately
luminous and obscure, presented by the luminous electric discharge. The
action of the magnet on this light has likewise been studied. M. Plucker, after
numerous and important experiments, has ascertained its law in connecting it
with the formation of magnetic curves. Lastly, different explanations have
been offered of the stratification of -electric light, some based on the peculiar
mode of the production of electricity by Ruhmkorff’s apparatus, others referring
it, not to the character of the apparatus producing the electricity, but rather to
that of the medium which propagates it.

The phenomena just cited had awakened in me a lively interest, and I have
for some years more particularly studied them. I have encountered great diffi-
culties in this pursuit, as, on account of the necessity, in operating on highly’
rarefied elastic fluids, of having apparatus which will properly maintain a vacuum,
as well as very delicate instruments to appreciate with minute exactness the
degree of rarefacation. The establishment at Geneva, conducted by so skilful.
a machinist as M. Schwerd, has, however, enabled me in a great measure to

~ For a table of French measures, compared with English, see the last page of this Report.
t Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tome XXV, p. 310; and Comptes Rendus del’ Academie.
des Sciences, tome. XXIX, p. 412.
170 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING .

surmount these difficulties, and to arrive at results which I can with confidence
present to the society. \

My earlier researches, which had chiefly for their object the study of the
general phenomena, were directed only to hydrogen and nitrogen, two gases,
differing greatly as regards their physical and chemical properties, and offering,
moreover, the advantage of being at once simple, unalterable, and without action
on the metals serving as electrodes. Atmospheric air, on which also I have
often operated, acts very much as nitrogen, whether because the proportion of
oxygen it contains is small in comparison with that of the nitrogen, or because
this oxygen, at least in great part, quickly disappears by reason of the trans-
mitted eleetricity, which, converting it into ozone, facilitates its combination
with the metal of the electrodes. I have also, in some cases, mixed with the
gas submitted to experiment a little vapor of water or of alcohol.

Electricity has, in my experiments, been produced by a Ruhmkorff induction
apparatus of mean force, set in action by one or two pairs of Grove’s cups,*
and operating by means of the ordinary cut-off. The electricity thus produced
is transmitted by means of copper wires covered with gutta-percha through the
gaseous mediums, more or less rarefied, contained in glass vessels of different
forms, tubes, jars, spherical or ovoid globes, &c. These vessels are to be carefully
closed with good taps, and furnished with metallic electrodes of divers forms
and natures, which serve to introduce the electric currents.t In the circuit
which these currents are destined to traverse we place distilled water in a small
glass trough, some twenty centimetres in length by five in width and three in
depth. ‘I'wo plates of platina fixed respectively at the extremities of the trough,
and whose surface is exactly equal to the transverse section of the stratum of
water, serve to establish this water in the cireuit. The purpose of the interpo-
sition of the water is to determine the intensity of the’ electric current by means
of an expedient which permits, with that view, the employment of a very deli-
cate galvanometer. ‘I'wo wires of platina, each inserted in a glass tube, are
attached vertically to solid supports, so as to be immersed in distilled water at
their lower extremities, which extremities project from the glass only a milli-

* The battery in question is but a particular form which I have given to Grove’s apparatus
to render its management more convenient and prompt. It is constructed as follows:

A glass jar with a large opening of about ten centimetres, closed with a glass stopper rubbed
with emery, contains about a litre of nitric acid. When the pair is to be used, we remove the
stopper and replace it by a porous cylinder of such diameter that it can enter freely into the
jar by the opening. This cylinder, long enough to be plunged nearly to the bottom of the
jar, has on its upper portion an annular protuberance, by means of which it rests on the edge
of the opening. It contains sulphuric acid diluted with water, and a tube or strip of zine im-
mersed in the acid solution. It is, besides, surrounded externally with a thin plate of platina,
to which is soldered with gold a wire, also of platina, which terminates outside, traversing
the annular projection of the porous cylinder. The zinc and the platina wire each carry
nippers, by which the conductors are readily attached. There may be several similar
pairs, and nothing is easier than to arrange them in series, so as to obtain a battery more or
less powerful. But a single pair is sufficient, if well mounted, for nearly all electro-dynamic
experiments. and particularly for the demonstration of the laws of Ampére, as well as for the
production of the phenomena attending the discharge of the Ruhmkorff apparatus in rarefied
gases.

It is not necessary often to change the nitric acid, since the jar contains a large quantity.
The same acid may serve for several days and for many experiments. It is of advantage,
however, frequently to change the acidulated water which fills the porous tube—a very easy
and unexpensive operation. Finally, an important precaution to be taken is, that, when we
cease to use the pair, the porous cylinder should be withdrawn from the nitric acid, care bein
taken immediately to replace it with the stopper rubbed with emery, and the cylinder should
be immersed in a bottle filled with pure water. Thus the emanations of the nitrous vapors,
and the penetration of the nitric acid through the porous cylinder, are avoided. We should
guard against immersing the amalgamated zines in the same water in which the porous
a have been plunged, for the smallest trace of nitric acid in water suffices to alter the

t Por electrodes I have chiefly used balls of platina, one centimetre in diameter.

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 171

metre, in accordance with the plan of Dr. Wollaston, while their upper extremi-
ties communicate respectively with two ends of the wire of a galvanometer,
whose coils are well isolated by means of resin. ‘The supports which bear the
platina wires are movable along a division in such way that the two extremi-
ties of the wires immersed in the water may be made to approach one another as
closely as possible, or be separated very nearly the whole length of the stratum
of water. By means of a micrometric screw, the relative distance of the two
points of platina may be so varied as to be appreciable to nearly the tenth of
a millimetre. These two points draw off an almost insensible proportion of the
electric current which traverses the trough filled with water—a proportion, how-
ever, which suffices to act in a distinct manner on the needle of the galvanometer.
The proportion drawn off depends for a current of constant intensity on the dis-
tance of the two points, so that, if the intensity be variable, it is the variable
distance to which it is necessary that the two points shall be brought, in reference
to one another, in order for the indication of the galvanometer to remain con-
stant, which measures the proportion drawn off in each case, and thus, by a ratio
easily determined, the absolute intensity of the current.

Finally, a good pneumatic pump, to which a second complementary one may
be joined, enables us to bring the gas to an advanced degree of rarefaction. As
to the elastic force of the gas, that is. measured by a manometer of mercury
very carefully constructed, with which, by means of a cathetometer, a difference
of pressure of even the fiftieth of a millimetre may be appreciated.

§ L—GENERAL PHENOMENA PRESENTED BY THE TRANSMISSION OF
ELECTRICITY IN RAREFIED GASES.

The Ruhmkorff apparatus, of which I have availed myself, gives in the in-
ducted wire two successive and alternately contrary discharges. Hence, if
these discharges encounter in the circuit which they traverse only good con-
ductors, such as metallic wires, and even distilled water, no deviation is re-
marked in the galvanometer, because the discharges being alternately in a
contrary direction, and in rapid succession, their opposed double action is
neutralized. But if the circuit comprises an elastic fluid very much rarefied,
the resistance which it opposes to the passage of the two successive discharges
causes one of them to predominate, so that the phenomena take place as though
there were but a series of discharges all in the same direction. The explana-
tion of this difference is, that the two discharges, or inducted currents, though
equal in quantity, have not the same tension, the direct, which have a less
duration, having a stronger tension. It thence results that when the circuit is
interrupted by a body which is a bad conductor, such as an elastic fluid more
or less rarefied, the direct currents can alone be transmitted, so that the direc-
tion of the inducted current which traverses the elastic fluid is the same with
that of the inductive current, and the latter changing, the other changes at the
same time.

The pressure at which a discharge of a given intensity begins to pass through
a gas varies with the nature of that gas, with its degree of rarefaction, and with
the dimensions and form of the vessel which contains it. Moreover, the dis-
charge does not pass immediately upon the electrodes being put in communica-
tion with the poles of the Ruhmkorff apparatus. For that a certain time is
necessary—a time so much longer in proportion as the resistance is grcater,
whether arising from the nature or density of the elastic fluid, or from the effect
of the form and dimensions of the vessel. Thus, in a long tube, from 2 to
5 centimetres in diameter and from 30 to 50 centimetres in length, it requires
several minutes before the discharge can be transmitted, however rarefied the
gas. But the first discharge having once passed, the succeeding ones pass
with facility, and follow one another so rapidly as to produce on the galva-
172 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

nometer the effect of a continuous current. The passage ef the discharges may
even be interrupted for many minutes without the loss of the capacity which
the gas had acquired of immediately transmitting them. To lose it completely
we must wait a long time, or renew the gas, and consequently again rarefy it.
An equally important fact to be noticed is, that the discharges once transmitted,
there may be gradually introduced, while they are passing, a new quantity of
the same gas, which amounts to an augmentation of the density, without their
ceasing to pass; the pressure may thus be carried to almost double what it was»
at the beginning. ‘The direction of the discharges has no influence on this
train of phenomena; for, the discharge having once effected a passage, its
direction may be changed at will, without a cessation of immediate transmission.
This result, which I have had occasion to verify in many and very different
cases, would seem to show that the gaseous matter opposes a certain inertia to
the establishment of that particular disposition which the transmission of elec-
tricity requires, and which determines the tension which precedes that trans-
mission; but that this disposition once established, it subsists long after the
passage of electricity has ceased, provided no disturbance intervene in the state
of the gas. It had long been supposed, particularly in the theory of Grotthus
on electrolytic decompositions, that something analogous occurred in the trans-
mission of voltaic currents through liquids; it had thence been inferred that
the tension of the poles of the piles induced in the liquid in which these poles
were plunged, a polarization, which preceded the passages of the current. Only
these two effects succeeded one another in a time so short as to be inappre-
ciable, while with gases they would be found to be separated by an interval
of more or less duration, but always appreciable.

I shall restrict myself here to certain numerical results,—results of but little
importance indeed, since it is impossible to deduce from them a law, in view of
the numerous causes which occasion them to vary. They serve only to show
the accuracy of the general principle which I have just indicated. We may.
also infer from them the great superiority of hydrogen over nitrogen and atmo-
spheric air, as regards its conducting power—a fact already noticed by several
experimenters.

In a tube 5 centimetres in diameter and 16 in length, the discharge, when
the tube was filled with atmospheric ‘air, only began to pass when the pressure
was reduced to 20 millimetres; with nztrogen it passed under a pressure of 24
millimetres, and with Aydrogen under that of 36 millimetres. It is true
that subsequently, under the same conditions of intensity, and still with
hydrogen, the discharge passed at pressures of 42, and even 48 millimetres;
when rendered still stronger, it has been transmitted under a pressure of
even 72 millimetres. With a tube having a like diameter of 5 centimetres,
but only one metre in length, the same discharge only began to pass through
nitrogen under a pressure of from 4 to 5 millimeters; with hydrogen it passed
only under a pressure of from 12 to 13", Afterwards, when stronger, and
again with hydrogen, it passed under a pressure of 18, and even 20™™. When
the discharge begins to be transmitted, it exhibits itself in very minute jets
or streams, more or less intermitted; afterwards these streams combine to form
a larger and more continuous one. In a jar filled with hydrogen the discharge
passed from an isolated central ball to a ring 12 centimetres in diameter,
making the distance of the transmission but 6 centimetres in a space of hydro-
gen which might be called unlimited. In this case it was transmitted under a
pressure of 125™" in the form of streams more or less intermittent and undu-
lating, darting from the central ball to all points of the ring indifferently. At,
90™" the discharge gave rise to a continuous stream, susceptible of being in-
fluenced by magnetism.

We see, by the instances just cited, that the pressure under which, fer any
given gas, the discharge can pass varies with so many circumstances, that its

«
THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 173
determination is of little importance. Not so, however, when the discharge is
once transmitted in regard to the influence which the pressure of the gas it
traverses exerts on its intensity. The following are two comparative experi-
ments made with nitrogen and hydrogen. ‘These two gases were successively’
introduced into a tube 5 centimetres in diameter and 50 in length; the dis-
charge passed between two balls of platina one centimetre in diameter, placed

respectively near each extremity of the tube, so that the passage across the
gaseous medium was quite 50 centimetres in extent.

Nitrogen —The intensity of the discharge was measured by means of that
of the derived current received by the two points of platina plunged, at a fixed
distance of 120™™, in the distilled water which was placed in the circuit :

Pressure. Intensity of derived current.
YEU ie eh ee Galvanometer almost insensible.
7mm fe 3B Ae! sence WeaNone fa be
ee eee ais, hc cual 13° to 16°
ATA SEA SY gy PEED a ed oe 20. foroOr
SO ies, ese yap
ST ie Sait ee oc 38° to 40°
BITE oe Gini Seis Same AD ova

Hydrogen.—Proceeding at first as in the case of the nitrogen, the two points
of platina which received the derived current were left at a fixed distance from
one another:

Pressure. Intensity of derived currents.

Oe cr cuete a eae an elace © ee ones 2 aad Kae a
964mm Fe en RE PRN Ser ON. 6 RL Lee OF KOREA 5°
1S™2 eee Se et ee ee ane em Bale Shee he ae | 6°
15mm et Bat tn ei tone Ne Bi Sie, Cul ea hy Ay SO AE Ta he
ee re aya eRe er ee Te tae Cee eer 13°
Se eee ars Mates tebe ees sfere tees ele 40°

gum aa pris ad Aang Rn Bete ct og as cng PO Ne yi Ld 50°

For pressure of less than 9 millimetres the points of platina were in each
case brought nearer together, so as to have a constant current. At a distance
of 55™™, the derived current, which under a pressure of 9™™ had been 50°, was
reduced to 40°. The following series was then obtained; and here, in order
to restore the derived current to 40°, it was requisite, in proportion as the press-
ure diminished, to bring the points closer together, so as to render the interval
of derivation smaller:

Pressure. Distance of points.
ONS “st. 57a er tenant ts ve ara a es arora oenene nats, g Pore fe Gone
gmm fot) Wh ds ee er my AEASSE AE EES, Sees peas 45mm
7ymm Mle ta. pte eee oe Sa a! Bale? 24th ele Ee 30mm
6mm Be ph To a ES RO ge is ee ee EG 95mm
5mm yy OA er | he ey eee eyo) bey er ae 90mm
4mm BS oe ioe he SD NS Me Aah od ort) te SS. Sad Peg et oe EBS {722
gmm Sh ae ee a 8 os Te ee ems Cn ee ees 14™m
omm A) ee ae ar) eae AD Sega dO Os te eh ae 12™m

Thus, as far as 2™™ of pressure, the intensity of the derived current, and
consequently the conductibility of the gas, goes on increasing as well for the
hydrogen as for the nitrogen; but we see how much more considerable is the
conducting power of the hydrogen than that of the nitrogen, since, under a
pressure of 9™™, all other circumstances remaining the same, the derived cur-
rent is, with the nitrogen, scarcely sensible, while it is 50° with the hydrogen.

.
: .
174 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

In two other comparative experiments, the pressure and the distance of the
electrodes were made to vary alike for the nitrogen and hydrogen. The two
gases had been successively introduced into the same ovoid globe. The fol-
lowing table gives the intensity of the derived current for three different dis-
tances of the electrodes under different pressures, when x¢rogen is in the ball:

Pressure. Distance of the electrodes.
14 cent. 7 cent. 1 cent.
20mm cals Ee Seen ea 10° ys Xe) 55°
Le Seer cn 40° A By 55°
hmm eee ct he Rees 50° 55° 57°
PPOs «BA ano yet Nh eit oe 55° 55° 57°

When for nitrogen we substitute hydrogen, the results differ somewhat,
especially in the lower pressures, and when the electrodes are in close proximity
with one another, which proceeds probably from the circumstance that the
gaseous medium, in view of the form of the vessel, may be regarded as having
an almost indefinite breadth. In a large receiver, in effect, where the current
passes between a central ball and a concentric ring having a diameter of 12-
centimetres, the intensity of the derived current is very little increased by
diminishing the pressure beyond 10™™. That intensity, measured by the de-
rived current, amounts, under a pressure of 15™™, to 35°; under a pressure of
10™™, it attains 45°; then augments gradually as far as 5™™, when it reaches
its maximum of 50°, which it never exceeds, manifesting rather a slight ten-
dency to become less under 2™™. By raising the central ball so as to give to”
the electric sheet a conical instead of circular form, the conductibility is not
sensibly diminished. Under the same circumstances the atmospheric air does
not present a resistance much greater than the hydrogen; thus the intensity
of the derived current is 35° at 5™™ instead of 50°, and at 2™™ is 45°. How-
ever, with the tube of one metre in length, hydrogen must be subjected to a
much weaker pressure in order to transmit the discharge, but its conductibility
increases very rapidly with the diminution of that pressure. ‘Thus, the appa-
ratus of derivation being placed in the circuit, we have:

Pressure. Intensity of the derived current.
gp ES Fea aie geval aks oe legate eee epee 0°
(DSN See BLE Pade ed Merete Os Mies aes 2 1S
Pe ey cies. Sh ees cvepalS ceacaun 1s & aah sae cy orep een 22°
SSUNDD a eye store See = mn fare te orshepotereerers sa cyoh wle
SDDS, Sli es a fe et aes 2 |e ee rr ixpie

Finally, with the same tube, one metre in length and 5 centimetres in
diameter, a sensible and regular augmentation in the intensity of the derived
current has been obtained, for the same pressure and in the two gases alike, by
a corresponding diminution of distance between the electrodes. The compari-
son of the numbers indicates, that, when the gas is sufficiently rarefied to be a
good conductor, that is, to permit the discharge to become, so to say, continu-
ous, it follows, like liquids and solids, in its conductibility, the law of the inverse
of the length. It has been already seen that the influence of the section
and of the volume is very considerable ; but I have not been able to determine
its law in a precise manner.

Thus far I have considered the propagation of electricity in gaseous sub-
stances only in relation to the resistance they oppose to it—a resistance variable
with their nature, their density, and their dimensions. I have but glanced
at this part of my subject, to which I shall return at an early occasion, as I
propose to extend my researches to a much larger number of gascous substan-—

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 175

ces. I pass now to phenomena of quite another order, and which relate to the
mode itself in which the propagation of electricity is effected in gases—a mode
which manifests itself under the form of stratification of the electric light.

§ IL.—INVESTIGATIONS REGARDING THE STRATIFICATION OF THE
ELECTRIC LIGHT.

It is known that at a certain degree of diminution of the elastic force of
a gas which transmits the electric current, that current becomes stratified —that
is to say, is decomposed into strata alternately obscure and luminous. The
stratification commences by the appearance of certain slight strise or furrows on
the side of the positive electrode; then gradually, as the elastic force dimin-
ishes, the current, which was at first very narrow, dilates, and the striz grow
larger. Next appears an obscure space, separating the extremity of the lumi-
nous columnfrom the negative electrode, which is itself surrounded with a bluish
atmosphere. This atmosphere continues to dilate, and the obscure space to
lengthen, in proportion as the rarefaction cf the gas increases.

In order to obtain the stratification of the electric light, it is necessary to di-

‘minish the pressure of a gas in proportion as the gas offers more resistance to

the transmission of electricity. Thus in hydrogen, under a pressure of 18™™,
the electric stream, which consists as yet of but a small rose-colored filament
from three to four millimetres in diameter, is seen to divide into very distinct cir-
cular sheets, alternately obscure and luminous, the breadth of which is one-fourth
of a millimetre. These striz, at first more distinctly marked at the positive elec-
trode, become general throughout the whole electric current, whatever be its
length; and, in proportion as the pressure diminishes, the stream becomes en-
larged, so as even to occupy the whole interior of a tube five centimetres in di-
ameter. At the same time the breadth of the alternately obscure and luminous
divisions so increases that, under a pressure of 2™™, it is about 5™™, These di-
visions are themselves annular, as I have satisfied myself by closing the tube
which contains the rarefied gas, at one of its extremities, with a glass disk,
which permits the whole interior of the tube to be seen in the direction of its
length.

When the striz begin to appear, an obscure space, as has been said, is seen
to form in front of the negative electrode, increasing in proportion as the press-
ure diminishes, so far as finally to occupy a length of ten centimetres—a length
which is independent of that of the gaseous column. However, by observing
with attention this obscure space, we discover, beyond an interval which is per-
fectly black, and of a well-defined length of from 2 to 3™™, a palish, rose-colored
gleam, which is only visible in utter darkness. This gleam, which has the form
of a cone, whose base is the last section of the luminous column, only appears
when the pressure has become very slight and quite inferior to that under which
the obscure space is manifested. It is accompanied by the appearance, in the
same obscure space, and at unequal intervals, of several still more luminous
rings, (I have counted as many as four,) which contrast, by their immobility and
their well-defined outlines, with the agitated striz or divisions of the rest of the
current. Let us add, that the luminous and stratified part of the current, which
is much the longest, is so much the more distinctly and sharply separated from
the obscure or palish part, as the electric discharge is more intense.

The bluish atmosphere which surrounds the negative electrode is also en-
larged in proportion as the pressure diminishes, and nearly in the same ratio
as the strie. At the same time, its brightness becomes less vivid, and its exte-
rior outline less sharply defined. This bluish atmosphere, which at first
enveloped only the negative ball, at last, and in proportion as the pressure |
diminishes, equally envelops, in all its length, the metallic rod which supports
the ball; at least, if this be not covered with an isolating coat, which indicates,
176 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

on the part of negative electricity, a great facility in dispersing itself in the
ambient medium, when once that medium is rarefied.

The agitation of the striae in the luminous part of the current becomes very
considerable under the slight pressure of two millimetres. It manifests itself
at first very sensibly in the neighborhood of the positive electrode, from which
the Inminous stream issues under the form of an outspreading cone, which, in
proportion as the pressure diminishes, becomes more and more cylindrical, until
it assumes altogether the form of a cylinder of whose circular base the electrode
is the centre, the agitation of the stria being, at the same time, general through-
out the whole extent of the current. ‘

When the discharge is effected in a cylindrical jar, between a ball serving as
a negative electrode and a metallic ring of which that ball is the centre, and
which serves as a positive electrode, the bluish atmosphere which surrounds the
ball enlarges by several centimetres at a pressure of 2™™, and its exterior out-
line is covered with small filaments, presenting a tuftlike appearance. ‘These
filaments are probably formed by the series of molecules which transmit the
discharge. They are much more distinct with hydrogen (a good conductor)
than with other gases. If the ball serves as a positive electrode, it is surrounded
with a lively rose-colored halo of about a centimetre in diameter, presenting
well-marked stratifications ; then comes a dark annular space, which terminates
at the ring, which is itself completely invested with an envelope or sheath of
clear violet, with opaline tints.

Nitrogen presents the same phenomena as hydrogen, though the stratification
of the electric light does not begin, except under a much feebler pressure. In
the long tube (one metre in length) the agitation of the striae, under-a pressure
of 2™™, is even more considerable than with hydrogen. 'These strive seem to
form an animated helix, with a movement of rotation around its axis. The
light is also more vivid, the tint being of a peach-blossom rather than pale rose,
color. The phenomenon is of a most brilliant description. Further, there is
the same obscure space in the vicinity of the negative electrode, the same
glimmer of palish rose color at a weak pressure of from 1 to 2"™™ in this obscure
space, the same appearance in this glimmering mist of well-defined and motion-
less rings more luminous than the space which surrounds them.

Atmospheric air corresponds in its phenomena with nitrogen. I have ob-
served only that here the agitation of the striz is less striking, and the light of
a rose color less deep than in nitrogen.

The appearances which I have just described are, therefore, within some
mere shadings, precisely the same in hydrogen, nitrogen, and atmospheric air ;
they are equally the same, whether these gases are dry. or contain the vapor
of water or of alcohol in more or less quantity ; there are no differences, except
that the pressures at which the various phenomena, and the tints of light which
accompany them, are observed, vary with the nature of the rarefied elastic fluid.
We cannot, then, attribute the effects just considered to an electro-chemical
decomposition which cannot take place in a simple and well-desiceated gas, nor
to any action appertaining to the chemical nature of the elastic fluid. They
are evidently the result of a mechanical action which accompanies the trans-
mission of electricity—an idea first advanced by M. Riess, who showed that an
analogous phenomenon presents itself, under a little different form, it is true, in
liquids and in solids.

The phenomenon in rarefied elastic fluids would consist in the alternate con-
tractions and dilatations of the gaseous medium produced by the series of dis-
charges, always more or less intermittent, of which the electric stream is formed.
In fact, whether it be by Ruhmkorff’s apparatus, or an ordinary electric machine,
or by a hydro-electric machine of Armstrong, that the stratifications are pro-
duced, there is never a continuous discharge, but, in reality, a series of dis-
charges which may suecced one another so rapidly that the intermission shall

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. Eve

not be betrayed, even by a galvanometer. But it does not the less exist, as M.
Gassiot has shown in operating with a pile of Grove at high tension, which,
with the same electrodes, and in the same medium, will give rise, first to strati-
fications, and afterwards, when the current has become continuous, to a voltaic
arch.

The mechanical action of the series of discharges on the rarefied elastic fluid
may, indeed, be directly verified by the very marked oscillations of the column
of mercury of the manometer placed in communication with the elastic fluid,
which accompany the propagation of electricity in that fluid. These oscilla-
tions rise to two or three tenths of a millimetre in hydrogen, under a pressure
of 16™™, They begin to be sensible when once the stream passes, that is to

say, at 36™™ of pressure; attain their maximum of three-tenths of a millimetre

between 20 and 12™™ of pressure ; and diminish rapidly in descending from 12
to 5™™, at which last pressure they no longer take place. With nitrogen and at-
mospheric air, and employing the same tube 16 centimetres in length and 5 in
diameter, the oscillations begin, at the moment when the stream passes, under
the pressure of about 20™™; attain their maximum of from four to five tenths of
a millimetre between 12 and 8™™ of pressure; and then continue to diminish
until 2 or 5™™, at which pressure they cease to be sensible.

With the tube one metre in length, and even with that of 50 centimetres, I
have not succeeded in observing any appearance of oscillation accompanying
the transmission of the electric current, whatever might be the gas enclosed in
these tubes, and whatever the pressure to which it was subjected. On the other
hand, I have obtained very distinct ones, of one and two tenths of a millimetre,
under pressures varying from 30 to 15™, in a jar 20 centimetres in height by
16 in diameter, filled with rarefied hydrogen, and in which the electric stream
passed from a central ball to a ring 12 centimetres in diameter concentric to
that ball. ‘This last result shows that the absence of oscillations in the long
tubes has léss connexion with the volume of the gaseous medium, which is less
than in the vessel of the last experiment than with the influence of the sides
of the tubes which embarrass the movement of the gas. It is also a proof that
the oscillations proceed from a mechanical action, and not from an elevation of
temperature. As regards their intensity, the oscillations evidently depend on
the greater or less resistance which the gaseous medium opposes to the trans-
mission of the electric current, since the oscillations are more considerable with
nitrogen than with hydrogen, and diminish as the pressure does, reckoning from
a certain point of the pressure, which is that at which the discharge can take
place in a complete manner, and at which the intensity of the oscillations attains
its maximum.

The stratification of electric light would appear then to be a phenomenon
analogous to the production of undulations of sound, that is to say, a mechanical
phenomenon proceeding from a succession of isochronous impulses communi-
cated to the rarefied gaseous column by the series of electric discharges rapidly
succeeding each other. We find a new proof favorable to this view of the phe-
nomenon in the perturbation which a displacement of the gaseous matter occa-
sions in the stratifications, and, consequently, in the disposition of the elastic
fluid which permits those stratifications to appear. To produce this perturba-
tion, it suffices to introduce into the tube in which there is a rarefied elastic
fluid, and while the electricity is in process of propagation, an additional
quantity of the same gas already enclosed therein, so as to increase the pressure
by one-fourth or one-half of a millimetre at most. Let us see what then occurs
with hydrogen, remarking ‘that the effects are the same with the three tubes,
respectively, 15, 50, and 100 centimetres in length.

We begin by rarefying the gas to the extent of 2™™, so as to have the phe-
nomenon of the stratifications as distinct as possible. We then introduce a
small quantity of hydrogen; if the introduction takes place on the side of the

12s
178° PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

negative electrode, strise of a fine rose color are immediately seen to form in the
obseure space, their diameter being that of the stratified column—that is, of
the tube, while they are at the same time very narrow and well defined. They
are gradually propagated in the tube, confounding themselves with the original
strix, which are much larger and less distinctly limited; then, as soon as the
entrance of the gas is arrested, the luminous column is’ seen to recede slowly
from the negative electrode, and resume gradually its primitive appearance.
When the introduction of the gas takes place on the side of the positive elee-
trode, in place of the strie occupying the whole cavity of the tube, we seea
brilliant stream of very small diameter (2 to 3™™) distinetly striated, and quite
similar to a minute spiral spring (7essort a boudin,) advance along the axis of
the tube in the relatively obscure interior of the luminous column, which itself,
as soon as the gas begins to enter by the positive as well as by the negative
electrode, immediately advances so as to occupy almost entirely the obscure
space up to the negative electrode, from which it is only separated by the in-
terposed stratum, 2"™ in thickness, which it cannot surmount. ‘Then, the intro-

duction of the gas once stopped, everything returns quickly to the normal state. _

By whichever of the two extremities of the tube the gas is made to penetrate,
we see, on the entrance of the gas, a very subtle mist of a roseate white color
make its appearance, and diffuse itself in the tube; but this, as soon as the in-
troduction of the additional quantity of gas has ceased, passes over from the
negative to the positive electrode, leaving the obscure space to form itself anew,
and momentarily hiding in its passage, by enveloping them as it were with a
light cloud, the successive stratifications of different parts of the column; then
this mist disappears, and the luminous column resumes its primitive appearance,
which it maintains so long as nothing is changed either in the electric current
or the state of the gas traversed by it. The appearance of this mist, which per-
fectly resembles that I have mentioned as existing in the dark space of the
column in a state of repose, well denotes the agitation into which the introdue-
tion of a small additional quantity of gas throws the whole column—an agitation
so conspicuously manifested by the progression of the strize and their encroach-
ment on one another. The phenomenon presents this further feature : that the
definiteness and brightness of the striz in the gaseous portion introduced, which
make them so plainly distinguishable from the gas which was already in the
tube, enable us to follow the progressive movement of that portion from one end
of the tube to the other. ‘lhe experiment may be repeated several times in
succession by successive introductions of additional quantities of gas, provided
that each time the pressure be not increased more than 4 of a millimetre, and
that the total pressure do not in all exceed 5 or 6™™.

With nitrogen and atmospheric air the incidents are the same, only we can-
not push the experiment so far, the pressure at which the phenomenon ceases
to take place with these gases being much less than it is with hydrogen. The
narrow striz which display themselves at the moment of the entrance of the gas
on that side where the entrance takes place are also less distinct and less bril-
liant, but there is equally a momentary disappearance of the obscure space, the
production of a roseate mist, and progression of this mist, on the cessation of
the introduction of gas, from the negative electrode to the positive. With the
three gases alike, we see, when the introduction is effected on the side of the
negative electrode, the mist advance at first like the slender striated thread
which follows the axis of the tube from the positive electrode to the negative ;
then, having arrived at this extremity of the tube, it turns back, passing over,
as has been said, from the negative to the positive electrode.

This mist evidently proceeds from a portion of the gas which, in entering the
tube, is excessively dilated, and becomes visible by the electricity which trav-
erses it. IFvom the slowness with which the mist is propagated we may judge
of the feeble degree of elastic force in the gas. It is to the same cause probably

—_—  —_

CC OO —————————

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 179

that we should ascribe the slowness with which the mixture of the gas which
is entering the tube with that already present is effected—a slowness which is
manifested by the circumstance of the definite and narrow strie appearing in
the new portion of gas, while in the old the striz are much larger, and by no
means so distinctly defined—a phenomenon which can only proceed from the
former not being, at the moment when it enters the tube, so much dilated as the
gas which was already there. In fine, the fact that the gaseous column with
narrow striz is much larger when the gas which produces it enters on the side
of the negative electrode than when it enters on that of the positive, is a proof
that, before the new introduction of gas, the gaseous column already in the tube
was much more dilated in the neighborhood of the negative electrode than on
the side of the positive. So, then, the passage of the electric discharges very
rapidly succeeding one another across a rarefied gaseous column would pro-
duce therein, when the rarefaction had reached a certain degree variable with
the nature, and consequently with the conductibility of the gas, first, a consid-
erable dilatation of the gaseous matter around the negative electrode, and next,
beginning in this dilated portion of the column, a succession of alternate con-
tractions and dilatations as far as the positive electrode. It is highly probable
that the same effect takes place when the gas is not sufficiently rarefied for
producing stratification of the electric light. But in that case, the greater
elastic force of the gas, joined with the necessarily less rapid succession of the
discharges, allows the immediate return of the contracted and dilated strata to
their state of normal density, and thus prevents that double state from mani-
festing itself; while when the gas is less elastic, and the discharges succeed one
another more rapidly, the state of dilatation and contraction of successive strata
produced by a first discharge still subsists when a second arrives, the result
being that it becomes sensible.

The transmission of electricity, then, through a gaseous column occasions a
movement in the particles of gas, and that movement seems to be an impulse
emanating from the negative electrode. Might not this effect be attributed to
the static electricity with which the molecules are charged, and which would
augment their constitutive repulsion? We know, and it is seen by the lumi-
nous aureoles which surround the negative ball and rod, that, at an equal tension,
the negative electricity issues more readily than the positive from its metallic
electrodes in order to penetrate into the rarefied ambient medium. Hence, the
portion of that medium nearest to the negative electrode must be more charged
with static (negative) electricity than is (with positive) the portion of the rare-
fied gas near the positive electrode; it is not, then, surprising that the repulsion
of the gaseous molecules, and consequently the rarefaction of the gas, should be
greater in the first of these two portions than in the second.* Now, why does
negative electricity diffuse itself more easily than positive under the same con-
ditions of intensity, magnitude, and position of electrodes, nature and rarefac-

tion of the ambient medium? Here is the mystery, or at least a point of most

interesting consideration as regards the theory of electricity,

§ I1I.—PARTICULAR PHENOMENA PRESENTED BY DIFFERENT PARTS OF
THE STRATIFIED ELECTRIC CURRENT.

The gaseous column traversed by the electric current is composed, as we
have said, when it has been brought to a certain degree of rarefaction, of strata
alternately dilated and contracted, with an obscure space greatly dilated in the
neighborhood of the negative electrode. The more dilated parts of the column
offering less resistance to the transmission of electricity must remain obscure,

* The fact that the electricity of tension is more easily propagated around the negative than
around the positive electrode may be readily verified by experiment, as well as the permanent
state of electric tension of the gaseous column during the passage of the electric current, what-
ever may be the rarefaction of the gas.
180 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

while the more contracted, with less capacity of conduction, grow warm, and
become luminous, even when it, is the same discharge which: traverses them.
We should here expect a phenomenon exactly analogous to that which is pro-
duced when we place in the circuit of a voltaic pile a chain formed of alternate
wires of platina and silver, having the same length and diameter ; although they
both transmit the same current, the wires of platina, offering most resistance,
grow hot, and become even incandescent, while those of silver, being better
conductors, remain cold and opaque.

To demonstrate that in fact the space remaining opaque offers less resistance
to the transmission of electricity in the stratified column than the luminous part
of that column, I have arranged two small disks of platina, 7™™ in diameter,
each attached by a point in its circumference to the end of a wire of platina,
enclosed in a tube of glass, in such a way as to be kept parallel to one another
at a distance of three centimetres. ‘The two disks are connected in a solid
manner, though very carefully isolated, and without any possible electric com-
munication except by means of the wires of platina soldered to their.cireumfer-
ence, and enclosed in a tube of glass. The free extremities of the two wires of
platina can be respectively placed in communication with those of the wire of a
galvanometer. ‘The apparatus is arranged in such manner that the two disks
of platina may be introduced into the stratified electric stream so as to cut it
transversely, and to have their centres situated in the very axis of the stream.
They thus serve as sounds destined for the derivation of a part of the current,
and the intensity of that derived portion, which is so much less as the conduc-
tibility of the interval of derivation is greater, is measured by the deviation of
the needle of the galvanometer put in communication with the free extremities
of the platina wires which support the disks; these wires, as has been said, are
themselves enclosed in tubes of glass where they traverse the recipient which
contains the rarefied gas, with a view to their remaining well isolated, and that
the disks alone may be in contact with the gaseous substance which transmits
the discharges. Now, it suffices to change the direction of these discharges in
order that the sounds, without being displaced, shall be immersed either in the
obscure space near the negative electrode, or in the luminous space near the
positive one. ‘The apparatus is, moreover, so contrived that the sounds may be
placed in other portions of the current. It is proper to add, that the electrodes
between which the electric stream passes are two disks of platina, each five cen-
timetres in diameter, placed parallel to one another at a distance which may
vary from forty to thirty centimetres, and consequently, like the little disks
serving as sounds, perpendicular to the axis of the stream.

The following are some experiments made successively with nitrogen and
hydrogen :

NITROGEN, OR ATMOSPHERIC AIR.

Pressure of the gas, Intensity of the derived current.
Sounds near the positive electrode. Sounds near the negative electrode,
ee a nana RARER Oe 108, 2 5 SP eee eee 18°
ATE 8 Ag oy ea a ee AOS 02 hope ra eye eas 8°
eet stat ie ate att ee eer a |: hee ermine Gp. -: | Somes 3°
HYDROGEN.
BE, atctonaie ater x ad: Here PTS 90° 2 .\. La eee Sols ais) |) a
21 ELE a oe ee 82° 227, oe EMATENS the BSCS § 65°
AUR ay Ataysra clatter cre « ota 520. a ee eee 9°
ON A etcbarel cc nia to ees ack Lo oOo. Cle Sacis epee mee as 0°

We see from these tables that the intensity of the derived current diminishes
with the pressure, although the transmitted current be much stronger, which
shows With what rapidity the resistance of the gas diminishes in proportion as
its rarefaction increases. But at the same time the diminution of the derived

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 181

current, and consequently that of the resistance, is much greater when the
sounds are immersed in the obscure space near the negative electrode than in
the luminous part of the stream near the positive one. Thus, under the press-
ure of 2™™, it is impossible in hydrogen to perceive the least derived current
in the black space, while this derived current is at the same time 35° in the
luminous space; at a pressure of 15™™ it was 90° in the nei&hborhood of the
two electrodes alike, but there was as yet no formation of the obscure space,
and consequently the state of density of the gas was the same at the two ex-
tremities of the tube. ‘The resistance of the obscure space is also very feeble
in nitrogen under a pressure of 2™™, since the derived current is only 3°, while
it is 18° in the luminous space; but the difference between the two derived
currents is less than in hydrogen. This difference results from the fact that
hydrogen, having a conductibility much superior to that of nitrogen on the one
hand, the absolute intensity of the current is greater, which explains why we
have 35° instead of 18° in the luminous space; on the other hand, the derived
portion must then be less where rarefaction still more augments the conducti-
bility of the gas, which accounts for our having 0° in place of 3° in the obscure
space.

Let us here remark, that all the results which show the unequal resistance
presented by different parts of the same gaseous column to the propagation
of electricity are readily comparable with one another, since it is the same elec-
tric stream which successively traverses these different and unequally conducting
parts.

If we place the sounds in a portion of the stream which is 4 of the distance
from one of the electrodes, and consequently % from the other, we have for
the intensity of the derived current, under a pressure of 2™™ in air or nitrogen,
8° when the negative electrode, 12° when the positive, is nearest to the sounds.
In hydrogen we have 20° and 36°, Thus, the conductibility of the gaseous
column goes on diminishing gradually from the obscure space, where it is at its
maximum, to the space near the positive electrode, where it is at its minimum.

By placing the sounds always in the same portion of the stream, we can
find in the intensity of the derived current a sufficiently exact expression of the
degree of resistance of different gases at different degrees of pressure, provided
we take care, by means of a rheostat, to give to the principal current in each
case the same degree of absolute force. This is an investigation with which I
am at present occupied, and which is not yet finished. ©

We see, then, that the obscure space near the negative electrode offers much
less resistance to the passage of the current than does the luminous part near
the positive electrode. It thence results that, for the same reason that the less
conductive portion of the gaseous column is more luminous than that with
greater conducting capacity, which remains nearly dark, the temperature of the
first should be higher than that of the second—an inference which experiment
has fully confirmed.

Two thermometers of mercury, with cylindrical reservoirs, were placed in the
interior of the tube, which is 16 centimetres in length and 4 in diameter, at the
respective distance of one centimetre from each of the electrodes—a distance
sufficient, as was ascertained, to annul the cooling or heating influence of those
electrodes. That the influence would rather have been refrigerant, was found
susceptible of verification by bringing them nearer the reservoir of the ther-
mometers, which is not surprising, in view of their dimensions, (full metallic
balls one centimetre in diameter.)

By causing the electric stream to traverse the rarefied nitrogen or hydrogen,
a great difference was at once perceptible between the temperature acquired by
the thermometer placed in the dark space near the negative electrode and that
acquired by the thermometer placed in the luminous space near the positive
electrode. These differences observe nearly the same ratio between the press-
182 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

ures of 1 to 10™, even when the absolute temperatures, with which they must
not be confounded, vary with the pressure and with the nature of the gases.
Thus, even when there is no longer any sensible obscure space at the negative
electrode, the thermometer is less elevated there than in the neighborhood of
the positive, which proves that the gas is there more dilated and of more con-
ducting capacity: The difference of temperature, then, should be a still more
sensible criterion than the difference of brightness, of the greater or less electric
resistance of different parts of the gaseous column. The absolute temperature
is in general less in hydrogen at all degrees of rarefaction than in nitrogen and
atmospheric air, which offer more resistance to the passage of electricity. ‘The
difference between the two thermometers was, moreover, never so great in hydro-
gen as in nitrogen, or atmospheric air. Thus it was at the maximum of 45°*
in hydrogen, under the pressure of 9 to 12™™, the thermometer having risen,
in two minutes, from 21° to 264° at the negative electrode, and 21° to 31° at
the positive. In nitrogen the maximum difference was 5° under the pressure
af 5™™, (20° to 24° at the negative thermometer, 20° to 29° at the positive.)
In atmospheric air the maximum difference was, at a pressure of 6™™, 6°, (from
18° to 26° at the negative thermometer, and from 18° to 32° at the positive.)
At a pressure of 20™™ the difference was not more in hydrogen than 24°, (from
21° to 284°, and from 21° to 26°;) in merogen but a half *degree, (from 20° to
to 25°, and from 25° to 254° ;) and in atmospheric air it was null, (from 19° to
28° at the two thermometers alike.) When there is no longer a difference be-
tween the indications of the two thermometers, or that difference is very slight,
it will be observed that the appearance of the luminous stream is perfectly
uniform through its whole extent.
Here we give a table of some experiments :

ATMOSPHERIC AIR, (duration of the experiment, two minutes.)

Pressure. Positive thermometer. Negative thermometer. Difference.
ait aia oie 1G iGiad net TGS Oe te a ee ete 4°
et So SEE a4 TS? a0 wel “Se eee LSo ore On ee wee 5$°
Yokes ye Oko a Se SS MOL Ona = eee 6°
ere eet VO apt ome Serer Rs pai uk Ais pee Shaky A 34°

LS Se 18S MG Onecare TS. to 20 ee ane 3°

15m" .4 Beye BGG boot Wee wis 8s 1S 29° ele alata a8

UE ae DHE RAS 1 OY vets eR stars hi 19° Vio 28 ope eesaeie. 0°

NITROGEN, (duration of the experiment, two minutes.)

USES aE OI Agi Nea eae 19°. tO ie tem ce = ee
ar to 20a° #0 28° psc aeninx 204° toate 3°
ees ere Pas MOue Ob nite mie Hake OP i, CO pein ree fay 5°
a 20P" towdds 2-2 veer 20°. BOG Ce aerate 44> 5
Eee amc inxe Oe: tO BLS tote Hine <evei,, QOS) Min ieee be 4°
es A OSaae10)51 ede SERRE Pa Ree tee 3°
29mm, ..- 20°. i Sato. ee... a 215° ae a so
HYDROGEN, (duration of the experiment, two minutes.)
Bee de cides ee QL? ten2ae wales A sto Aaa raise oi 3 2°
5mm... os... Q0° to 284° s wee 20° HOVPTA®. 2b af icc cin 3°
ae B16 BOT tee, 20° teria on ks 35°
APA. 36 shi. CLP tocPa Pda ceive eicis - RO° ti SG ie i2i- sei 44°
LBP sy oman tek! A230? eke waibicis 21° to: RGE ice danaix 4°
QA sigs nin'e D1? tO RBA? vai isimer 2 21° to GB veel sities 24°
30... RL 40,268 4 ee Eb 21° fo QBAO etc ae a 14°

* The thermometric indications are in degrees of Reaumur.

¥
|

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 183

The following is the result of an experiment in which the duration of the
passage of the current was prolonged beyond 2 minutes, through atmospheric
air at a pressure of 5™™;

Duration of passage. Positive thermometer. Negative thermometer. Difference.
Bee Stern 3 « 1S tol oS ace septes M40! 26° san ssteeee 5°
BR satin = 80:37?) ieee 228 — to 30$°......... 64°
tere hide os ==) HOMO: aise alos Seen 12 iain peeve 8°
8 Ee en == $0437 Wc) Su eesnis <sss" EON GA FS faite Sie a
BT a ereatate my nieie == iho ABP ou ierion. as 2 Sn MOA 2 aid 2h. AP

In proportion as the duration of the experiment increases and the absolute
temperature rises, the differences: between the temperatures indicated by each
of the two thermometers become proportionally less ; the indications of the two
thermometers end by approximating, and even becoming the same after the
lapse of a certain time. Hydrogen and nitrogen give the same results.

The numbers which express the temperatures in the preceding tables cannot
be given as being of perfect exactness; they vary, in effect, in their absolute
values with the intensity of the electric stream; but they are sufficiently con-
stant and exact to demonstrate: 1st, that there is a sensible elevation of tem-
perature, which accompanies the propagation of the electric current in rarefied
gases; 2d, that this elevation is sensibly less in the neighborhood of the
negative electrode than near the positive, when once the gases are sufficiently
rarefied for the discharge to pass easily and the electric light to be stratified ;
3d, that the absolute elevations of temperature at the two electrodes, and their
differences, vary with the density and the nature of the gas.

A fact which shows well all the calorific and luminous power of electricity,
is, that hydrogen reduced to 14™™ of pressure can become luminous and be
heated in a very sensible degree* by the passage of electricity, although at that
pressure it has a density so inconsiderable that a cubic centimetre of the gas
does not weigh more than barely => of a milligramme.

When we sce matter so subtle as hydrogen reduced to one or two millimetres
of pressure, becoming luminous under the influence of electricity, the temptation
ean hardly be resisted of surmising an analogy with the matter at once so subtle
and so luminous which constitutes the cometary bodies. This analogy becomes
still more striking when we examine closely the appearance presented, in the
tube which contains the rarefied hydrogen traversed by the electric current, by
those species of luminous mists which manifest themselves at the moment when
we introduce a little gas into the tube, and which we also sce in the obscure
space when a certain degree of rarefaction has been attained. Undoubtedly the
gaseous matter is there still more rarefied than it is in the rest of the mass where
it is already extremely so, and it offers at the same time a remarkable resem-
blance with the luminous matter which constitutes the comets.

§ IV.—INFLUENCE OF MAGNETISM ON ELECTRIC CURRENTS PROPAGATED
IN HIGHLY RAREFIED GASEOUS MEDIUMS.

This influence, whose existence I have shown under the form of a rotation
communicated by the pole of a magnet to the electric currents which radiate
from it, is, as might be expected, and, as M. Plucker has evinced by several re-
markable experiments, general. The luminous filaments which display them-.
selves in rarefied gases, traversed by the discharges of the Ruhmkorff apparatus,

* The heating of the gas must in fact be very considerable to be capable, in two minutes, of
raising by nearly 3° the temperature of a thermometer whose reservoir is a cylinder of mer-
cury 2} millimetres in diameter by 3 centimetres in length. Besides, the single fact that the ;
gas is luminous well evinces its high temperature; for the light is evidently but the effect of its
incandescence.
184 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

are attracted or repelled by magnets as electric currents circulating in metallic
wires would be. In a word, this action is subject to all the laws of electro-
dynamics, with this difference, that all the parts of the mobile conductor being
independent of one another, instead of being united with one another, as they
are in a rigid wire, they completely obey the forces which act upon them, and
take the positions of equilibrium which result therefrom. Hence it is that the
luminous filament takes the form of a magnetic curve; a necessary condition, in
order that the equilibrium should take place, since the action of the magnet on
the element of the current is then nothing, the direction of the action being per-
pendicular to that clement when it is a tangent to the magnetic curve.

I have verified in sundry cases the law just recited, and have even succeeded
in showing that, conformably to the law of Ampcre, two electric streams having
the same direction in a rarefied gas attract each other as two voltaic currents
transmitted across movable metallic wires would do. I have not realized the
repulsion of two electric streams passing in contrary directions, by reason of the
practical difficulty which I have hitherto encountered in constructing an appa-
ratus for the purpose. I do not, however, renounce the hope of being able to
do so. I shall return to this subject in an article in which I propose to consider
the mutual action of electric currents on one another. I restrict myself, for the
present, to an investigation of the effects of magnetic action on those currents.

My researches on this subject comprise two series of experiments: first, those
in which the electro-magnet from which the electric action emanates is placed
externally to the rarefied gas through which the electric stream is propagated;
secondly, those in which the magnetized iron is situated in the gas itself.

One of the most simple cases is that in which one of the tubes of which I
have spoken in preceding experiments is placed either axially or equatorially in
relation to the poles of a strong electro-magnet. The following is what is ob-
served when care has been taken to rarefy well the gas which transmits the
electric current. The portion of this current submitted to magnetic action is
condensed towards the walls of the tube in the part nearest, or that most remote
from, the magnetic poles, according to the direction of the current and that of
the magnetization; the striae become much more compressed and more brilliant.
If the portion of the tube placed in the neighborhood of the electro-magnet is
that where the negative electrode happens to be, the obscure space is immedi-
ately seen to become luminous, and to present close and brilliant striz as would
be the case with the constantly luminous portion of the current which seems to
advance. At the same time, the bluish photosphere which surrounds the neg-
ative ball contracts to at least half its size, becoming more brilliant, and the sort
of bluish sheath which surrounded the metallic rod, at the extremity of which
is the negative electrode, completely disappears.. All that bluish atmosphere is
concentrated on the ball. It seems that all the gaseous filaments, which may
be considered as so many conductors of the discharge, instead of radiating from
ll points of the negative ball and rod, and being disseminated through the
entire gascous mass as far as the positive electrode, radiate only, when the
magnetic action is exerted on them, from the negative ball, becoming condensed
towards the walls of the tube, on one side or the other, as far as that portion of
their course at which, the action being no longer sensible, they resume their
normal position. ‘his condensation explains why the part of the current which
was obscure because the gas was there too much dilated, becomes luminous, and
why that part which was already luminous becomes more slender and brilliant,
with stratifications more closely compressed. The action of the magnet pro-
duces the same effect which would be produced by a local augmentation of
density in the rarefied gaseous matter. Further, it is not necessary that the
action of the magnet should take place exactly on the obseure part in order to
its becoming luminous; it equally becomes so, even when the magnetism acts

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 185

on another portion of the current, provided it be not too remote from the neg-
ative electrode.

The consequence of the explanation just given, and which it is easy to verify
by experiment, is, that the portion of the gas which transmits the discharge
must, when it is subjected to the action of the magnet, become a more imperfect
conductor, and that consequently the electric current must, on the whole, en-
counter a greater resistance in its passage along the interior of the tube when
one part of the tube is approached by the electro-magnet than it encountered
previously.

Thus the tube of one metre being filled with rarefied hydrogen, and the ap-
paratus of derivation placed in the circuit,* we obtain the following results :

Pressure. Intensity of the derived current.
Without magnetization. Magnetization at the Magnetization at the
‘ : positive electrode, negative electrode.
EO Tk pcVststcrs ay woven ats Bd, Seah shepaee deeb ea aie SOC Hata De eas 28 20g
Smm. .....-. SOageotte ORLA ol sitctete eictaets SOP 5 terleave : SYS. 10°

With the tube 50 centimetres in length, filled with nitrogen, we have:

Pressure. Intensity of the derived current.
Without magnetization. Magnetization at the Magnetization at the
positive electrode. negative electrode,
Guilt Ses et ee IAI risen, SERN see i. UO ASPAY s DB SUEY Mrea mane ob of 49°
ys Oe fier. 2S ile Lb ae Bie rte ote Rt A eS 1
CLE Re 7 oe ee eee Poaren i) 5 BOS Sh Bae 129

The effects are more marked when the tubes are placed equatorially between
two soft-iron armatures of the electro-magnet, which are immediately in contact
with the walls of the tube, than when they are placed axially on the poles
themselves. We see that there is a much greater increase of resistance when the
magnetism acts on the portion of the current near the negative electrode than
when it acts on the portion near the positive electrode. The reason of this
difference is, that the first portion which, as we have seen in the preceding
paragraph, is endued with a much greater share of conductibility, must natu-
rally experience a more considerable diminution of that property by the con-
densation of the gaseous matter produced by the action of the magnet, than is
experienced by the second portion, where the gas is less rarefied. The direction
of the magnetization has no influence on the results: it has no other effect than
to elevate or depress the current, which, when the magnet does not act, is simply
horizontal.

Among the experiments which I have made regarding the influence exerted
by the exterior action of magnetism on rarefied gases enclosed in tubes, I will
further cite those in which the tube is convoluted into a flat spiral terminated
by two prolongations perpendicular to the plane of the spiral which serve to in-
troduce and rarefy the gas, as well as to give a passage to the discharges; the
tube of the spiral and its prolongations is a little less than one centimetre in
diameter, and its total development nearly eighty centimetres. It is necessary
that the gas should be rarefied at least as much as 2™™ for the discharges to
pass when nitrogen or atmospheric air is employed. With hydrogen, a press-
ure of 5 or 6™™ suffices for their transmission. But whatever the gas or its
degree of rarefaction, it is only after the lapse of some minutes from its being
placed in the circuit that the discharge begins to pass. It is evidently neces-
sary that it should be sometimes charged with static electricity for the resist-
ance to the establishment of the continuous stream to be surmounted. But that

*TIt should not be forgotten that here the derived current is proportional to the principal
current, so that its intensity may be regarded as being quite approximately the measure of
that of the discharge which traverses the tube.
186 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

Cc

resistance once surmounted, we may interrupt the passage of the discharge with-
out incurring the necessity of waiting more than an instant for the transmission
to recommence, when we close the circuit anew, provided the interruption does
not exceed an hour or two. The luminous current presents, with hydrogen
under a pressure of 5 or 6™™, very neat and distinct strie of a rose color; ata
pressure of 2™™, they become much larger and less distinct ; the color is also
paler. The same occurs with air and with nitrogen, but the effects are more
striking with hydrogen. A remarkable appearance presented by the current in
the interior of the spiral is, that it seems to undergo a very distinct movement
of rotation, in a direction which appears to vary with the direction of the dis-
charge ; but this last result is not very constant, which has led me to think that
ihe rotation is only apparent, and that it is the effect of the discontinuity of the
discharges which constitute the current, a discontinuity which produces the
illusion of a displacement. This point, however, deserves to be studied anew.

In order to observe the action of magnetism on the spiral current, I place the

spiral of glass between the two poles of the electro-magnet in such a way that -

its plane shall be the same with that of the two polar surfaces, the two prolon-
gations being thus rendered vertical, the one above, the other below, that plane.
The magnetization, according to its direction, either condenses the current
towards the interior walls of the spiral tube, or, on the contrary, repels it towards
the exterior walls, rendering it very diffuse. In the first case, it becomes highly
brilliant, and the stratifications are very distinct; in the second case, they are
but slightly visible, and the current itself is much larger and quite dim. It
appears to undergo, in even a more sensible manner, the movement of rotation,
ot which we have spoken. A quite curious fact is, that in the vertical branch
of the tube which is below the spiral, and consequently between the two
branches of the electro-magnet, the current divides itself, under the influence of
the magnetism, into two streams or filaments, which tend, respectively, to one
and the other side of the tube. Of these two filaments, one is very small, and
of little brilliancy, in comparison with the other. The cause of this separation
consists, very probably, in the fact that the inductive current of the Ruhmkorft
apparatus is really composed, as we have already taken occasion to say, of two
successive and opposite inductive currents, one having much more tension, and
passing almost exclusively through the gas, while the other is transmitted with
much difficulty, but yet passes, in very small proportion, it is true, since the
action of the magnet separates it from the principal current, which is the only
one in general that it is requisite to consider in this kind of phenomena, because
it is by much the strongest.

I have sought to determine in the case of the spiral tube, as I had done with
the large rectilinear tube, the influence of magnetization on the resistance of the
gas to the transmission of the discharge, and I have obtained a rather curious
result. ‘The two points of platina of the apparatus of derivation being at a dis-
tance of ten millimetres from one another in the distilled water, I obtained a
derivative current of 20°, the spiral tube being filled with hydrogen under the
pressure of 2", The spiral was placed vertically between the two horizontal
armatures of the electro-magnet which were exactly in contact with its two
faces. As soon as the magnetization took place, the derivative current was re-
duced to 15°, when the discharge was repelled, and driven towards the exterior
walls of the spiral with an apparent movement of rotation, and it was raised, on
the contrary, to 25°, when the discharge was condensed towards the interior
walls of the spiral. Does this influence of the direction of the current or of the
magnetization depend on the particular form given to the stream, or to the small
diameter of the tube, in comparison with its development in length? It is a
point for future elucidation.

I pass now to the case where the magnetic pole is in the midst of the gas
which transmits the discharge. I have first operated with a spherical globe,

}
THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 187

about fifteen centimetres in diameter, furnished with four tubulures situated at
the respective extremities of two diameters of the globe, which intersect one
another at right angles. ‘Two cylindrical rods of soft iron are fixed by means
of two of these tubulures in the interior of the globe, in the direction of
the same diameter, so that their interior extremities may be at a distance of
about eight or ten centimetres from one another, while their exterior extremities
project from the tubulure nearly two centimetres. It is these exterior extremi-
ties which are to be placed in contact with the poles of a strong electro-magnet,
in order that the interior extremities may thus become two magnetic poles.
The two other tubulures serve to introduce into the interior of the globe two
isolated metallic rods, terminated by balls which are at a distance of about ten
centimetres from one another, and which serve as electrodes to the electric
stream whose direction is thus equatorial, that is to say, perpendicular to the
right line which joins the two magnetic poles. As long as the rods of soft iron
are not magnetized, the electric stream remains perfectly rectilinear ; but so soon
as magnetization takes place, the stream, which we will suppose to have a hori-
zontal direction, takes the form of a half circumference of a circle situated either
above or below the line which joins the magnetic poles, according to the direc-
tion of the magnetization or that of the discharge. The form of the luminous
are is that of a half ring much flattened, as well as widened. The striz are
strongly marked in it, more than they were in the rectilinear current, and its
exterior part is much serrated, especially when the gas contains a little vapor
of alcohol or ether. If the electric current, instead of being equatorial, is axial,
that is to say, directed from one of the magnetic poles to the other, these two
poles serving it as electrodes, it experiences no sensible modification under the
influence of magnetization.

If, however, the discharge is made to pass between a ball of brass and one
of iron, placed at the extremity of an iron rod so as to be capable of being mag-
netized, there is observed, at the moment of magnetization, a movement of de-
pression, or of elevation in the luminous atmosphere which surrounds the ball
of iron. This movement pertains evidently to the change of direction under-
gone by the electric filaments which radiate from the ball. But the best mode of
studying the action of magnetism in the cases where the magnetized bar is in the
interior of the gas, is to make use of a bell or cylindrical jar sixteen centimetres
in diameter by twenty centimetres in height, in the axis of which is placed a
rod of soft iron having a diameter of about three centimetres, whose rounded
end is situated at the middle of the axis of the cylinder. This rod is planted
in a cireular disc, which serves to close the jar. A metallic ring, about twelve
centimetres in diameter, formed of wire from 3 to 4™™ in diameter, and having
for its centre the top of the iron rod, is situated in a plane perpendicular to the
axis of the jar. This ring communicates, by means of a rod covered with an
isolating coat which is soldered to it, with one of the poles of the Ruhmkorff
apparatus, while the other pole is placed in communication, outside the jar,
with the extremity of the rod of soft iron, which, in the interior of the jar, is
also covered with an isolating coat, except at its summit. It is between this
summit and the ring of which it is the centre that the discharge takes place.
In order to magnetize the rod of soft iron, it now suffices to place it in contact,
by its exterior extremity, with the pole of an electro-magnet, taking care to
place between the two a thin strip of caoutchouc to serve as an isolating layer, so
that the whole apparatus shall be well isolated. The cylindrical jar is also
closed at that one of its two extremities where the rod of soft iron is absent,
and it is there furnished with two cocks, of which one serves to form a vacuum,
and to introduce a gas which is more or less rarefied ; and the other, constructed
in Gay Lussae’s manner, permits the introduction into the ball of a greater or
less quantity of vapor of whatever nature.
188 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

I have made many experiments with this jar by filling it successively with
atmospheric air, with nitrogen, and with hydrogen, at different degrees of rare-
faction, these gases being at times perfectly dry ; at others, containing a greater
or less proportion of vapor, either of water or of alcohol. 5 /

Atmospheric air and nitrogen, when both dry, give nearly identical results,
with this difference, that the light is more vivid and clearer with nitrogen. If
the soft iron be taken for the positive electrode, and the ring for the negative
one, the luminous current is seen to form, at a certain degree of rarefaction, a
sort of peach-red envelope around the top of the soft iron, and a sheath of a
pale violet color along an are of a greater or less number of degrees around the
ring. Ata very weak pressure this sheath encompasses the whole ring, while
the top of the soft iron is completely enveloped with a rose-colored aureole,
from which issues a very short stream of the same shade, and presenting the
form of a large virgule, or comma. ‘This virgule, when the iron is magnetized,
is distinctly seen to turn in one or the other direction, with the aureole from
which it emanates, according to the direction of the magnetization. The violet-
colored sheath which surrounds the ring is also seen to turn in the same direc-
tion with the rose-colored aureole, although they are separated by a space
completely obseure. By changing the direction of the discharges, there will be
seen at the negative electrode a violet-colored envelope, which only covers the
whole surface of the top of the iron rod when the gas is very much rarefied, and
at the positive electrode, brilliant points, separated from one another by a roseate
glimmer which surrounds the entire ring, and whence emanate regular stratifi-
cations, internally concentric to the ring. When the gas is not greatly rarefied,
there is seen to issue from the ring a luminous jet which tends to the summit
of the central rod of soft iron, being only separated from it by a small, black
space, and which undergoes a movement of rotation in one direction or the
other, like the hand of a watch, according to the direction of the magnetization.
Tn this case there is but a portion of the top of the iron rod which is covered
with the violet envelope, and this luminous segment turns with the brilliant jet.

I have made a great number of experiments, under the conditions just indi-
eated, with atmospheric air, with nitrogen, and with hydrogen, whether dry or
more or less charged with vapors. I shall proceed to give a description of them
in a Summary manner, first remarking, however, that, whatever be the gas and
its degree of elasticity, whether it be dry or impregnated with vapor, the rapidity
of rotation is always much greater when the ring serves as the positive than
when it serves as negative electrode, and that this rotation, which increases in
rapidity in proportion as the tension diminishes, ceases to be appreciable at a
much less tension in the second case than in the first.

In my earlier experiments I had made use of a large globe, twenty-five cen-
timetres in diameter, in which the ring was twenty centimetres in diameter,
and the central iron rod three. This globe was furnished with two tubulures,
one serving to introduce the iron rod,,whose top reached the centre of the
globe, and its lower extremity issuing from the tubulure, so as to be capable of
resting on the polar surface of an electro-magnet. The other tubulure was
closed by a cock, which served to introduce the gas and vapor, and from it there
issued an isolated conductor, which supported the ring and admitted of its being
placed in the circuit. The discharge thus passed between the summit of: the
rod of soft iron and the metallic ring.

This globe was filled with air rarefied to 4™, The discharge took place
under the form of a stream which turned with a rapidity of sixty revolutions
per minute when the ring was positive, and twenty when it was negative. At
a pressure of 6™™ the velocity was only forty revolutions per second in the
former case and twenty in the latter. With vapor of alcohol, at a pressure of
5", the velocity was respectively twenty-two and eleven revolutions per minute.

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 189

After these first experiments, which served as my introduction to this sort of
researches, I resumed the study by availing myself of the jar of twenty by six-
teen centimetres, described above. ‘The following are the results obtained with
dry atmospheric air ;

Pressure. Number of revolutions in a minute.

Ring, positive. Ring, negative.
Se 5) aha ol. ane iahe fo f25) 4 aa oe oF OME Pe eis) sus \aseys- ous Svan ages 3
(EEE Oo a ie nee Be Ee uk ne Shee Cue Re temo Es 55

CIE oS oe, 3 rr enn eer eee Se ne es > ORES Es 63
URE tan Soo jhe cis are dele ews See Toten ase Na. cae we entene 100
OLD AS 1) AAS ee On a Pe i Sia eee 128
ee I os | cis ateiycrs eke oe, eS Bo ads Ee ECAR ede ae ap

At 9™™, with the ring serving as a positive electrode, there is no longer a
stream, but a dilatation of the discharge, forming a sector of from 30° to 45°;
and this sector obeys the movement of rotation as the stream before obeyed it.
But it enlarges, in proportion as the pressure diminishes, and at 6™™" forms a
complete circular sheet, and it is then that the rotation, which, up to this point,
had increased in rapidity, becomes no longer sensible. When the ring serves
as a negative electrode it is covered with a violet sheath, whose size likewise
increases in proportion as the pressure diminishes, but which occupies only half
the circumference of the ring under a pressure of 4™™, It is seen to turn very
rapidly, but at a pressure of 2™™ it occupies the whole circumference of the
ring, and there is no longer any sensible rotation. At the summit of the mag-
netized iron rod there is a roseate aureole, from which, as has been said, emanates
at one point a very short jet in shape of a comma, which turns with the violet-
colored sheath, from which it is separated by a very considerable obscure interval.

It should be remarked that, at a pressure of 6, of 4, and sometimes of even
3mm, it most often happens, when the ring serves as positive electrode, that at
the first moment of the circuit being formed there issues a stream which turns
too rapidly to allow its velocity of rotation to be measured, but which quickly
expands so as to form, for so ne instants, a sector which continues to revolve,
and soon after a complete circular sheet, which no longer manifests any movement.

It does not follow that the action of magnetism is annulled when the gas is
too much rarefied for the continuance of a sensible rotation. ‘That action is
manifested under another form, as is shown by experiments made under a
pressure of from 3 to 2™™. Thus, if the ring serves as negative electrode, the
violet sheath which surrounds the soft iron is seen, at the moment when this
last is magnetized, to subside sensibly, and to rise at the instant of its being
demagnetized. If, on the contrary, the ring serves as positive electrode, the
rose-colored sheet which fills the interval between the ring and the summit of
the central rod of iron is raised, as well as the violet sheet which issues from
that summit, at the moment of magnetization, and depressed at the instant of
demagnetization.

The following is a more complete experiment with dry nitrogen, and shows
that rotation begins to manifest itself at stronger pressures when the ring is
positive than when it is negative:

Pressure. Number of rotations in a minute.
Ring, positive. Ring, negative.
SC a oe ahi tan af ene I as~y creak fate ees tal =P se auces 9
Se a eee Crib ncs 4 i repairs (Sp eisyer dhe sare 3
Se Teast onc! 5/3) nace A e hras fae Shas 0 tae ee ae 36
ES 2 a eet. Oil See a ein oe agsyhyta) sh hone Vee ol
ee at a oa) el Re eyaten ciao ovate at niray a fayaiahni ay 59
Ee eee mre ee hd See sighspalaie atone yaya, « Boose 70
BEE a a, F54) Fh orcs yd avai SRANet eA ai ateavepaiais ah) o dma lake bie pis 115
190 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING

At 4™™ the rotation is too rapid to allow its degree to be observed; at 3mm
it appears completely to cease. ‘The rose-colored aureole is very vivid when
the summit of the rod of soft iron is positive. When there is no longer any
rotation, there is observed, as with atmospheric air, a movement of depression
and of ascension under the influence of magnetization.

The presence of vapor modifies in some important particulars the results
obtained with dry gases. The following is an experiment made with ordinary
air subjected to a pressure of 2™™, into which vapor of water has been intro-
duced in successive quantities, so as to increase that pressure solely by the
effect of the presence of the vapor:

Pressure. Number of rotations in a minute.
Ring, positive. Ring, negative.
PaO Tt Le Gre oi Sis pi euaidus aioe say age aie! seit tetas Co aiayste alc, coe ie
PP, I. Piva. cpaicigeisns ar aieeeohe PRIS Sere Sate or el cays teyntep ete MA
Ee eee = ihapnic cists & teas SW we dckscsesecg aselhtboces 92
Rasa = dus icas-eusychenaiaiaha aoeie TAOS a pecker oe pias alee eye a eeeee 70
(2 a i pe pee ese espe U2 ee Beate, etore eae apes a arate: ee 52
{} 2 ee SA Ss een ree GQ be oe sya aucus.2 ole cya aetatua cearete 50
TA cna ct ayn is 4d caasede = Susteaee SOR es stains eee eel oeiae wie 48

We see that at an equal pressure the rapidity of rotation is greater with
vapor of water than with dry air, which is attributable probably to the greater
facility with which the electric discharge is transmitted. With the external
air of a mean humidity, we have, with a pressure of 14™™, 72 revolutions
instead of 80 when the ring is positive, and 44 instead of 48 when it is
negative.

But the most characteristic fact produced by the presence of watery vapor
is the division, under the influence of magnetism, of the single current into
several small distinct and equidistant currents, which turn like the radii of a
wheel. ‘This division is only observed when the ring serves as a positive
electrode. At a pressure of 6™™ the single current begins with turning, then
expands, whereupon the rotation is no longer perceptible; but at the pressure
of 8, of 10, and of 12™™ this current, from the commencement of its rotation
under the action of magnetism, divides into five or six small streams which
turn, as was just said, like the radii of a wheel; while, when the air is dry, the
current never divides; but, under a weak pressure, it merely expands into a
sector or a circle of which all the parts are continuous.

When the ring is negative, and there is vapor present, it will be seen that
the current which issues from the summit of the iron rod presents, where it is
in contact with the iron and at the moment when this is magnetized, instead of
a continuous surface, a series of small brilliant points, which seem points of
emanation for as many small currents, too little distant from one another to
become distinet. Here, then, this current, which does not divide into separate
filaments, simply undergoes dilatation or expansion at the point where it is in
contact with the iron.

The vapor of alcohol produces similar effects with the vapor of water. The
single current is, in this case, much more brilliant than with dry air or with the
vapor of water; it presents fine stratifications, which give it an appearance not
unlike that of a caterpillar. Magnetization expands and divides it into several
currents, sensibly larger than those observed with the vapor of water. If,
however, the diameter of the ring is too large, greater, for instance, than fifteen
centimetres, the subdivision of the current is not effected without difficulty,
unless the intensity of the discharge and that of the magnetization be very
considerable.

The following is an experiment in which, the rarefied gas being hydrogen,
different portions of alcoholic vapor were successively introduced. The pressure

THE PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY. 191

of the dry and pure gas was in the commencement 5™™; at this pressure, as we
shall forthwith see, the hydrogen transmits the discharge only under the form
of a luminous sheet. The pressure was afterwards augmented solely by means
of the vapor of alcohol, with the following results :

Pressure. Nuniber of revolutions in a minute.
Ring, positive. Ring, negative.

2 ae ee i Tuminons sheet)... -..-...5..6 92
7 (MRSS eo ae eee oll SAE 2 See ae Pee SC 52
ie Re a Faas tote aE tam (OV, ere a ag ks sae a ee pe 48
LALA oS OR eee talc Lvekets Aa Tee Ce EC eee 38
{SUR 1 EE eee Pare en egeR tO Wer ere ek ets ne tte Bie eee ee 32
EN 2 Se a ne eS Be BU eae sO Gees See 20
DOr Es 5S a A Re ne ae 7 ee en NN NA 2 0 BE 18
Bo SEL Senet ene ee UP PE eae Rh URES 10
2) Ts See Sere 1 fae eRe See eee ae ea 10

The division into distinct currents, more or less numerous, was manifested
when the ring was the positive electrode.

When pure and dry hydrogen is adopted as the medium in which the dis-
charges take effect, the phenomena of rotation are obtained with great difficulty.
At rather strong pressures, such as that of 128™™, we have a number of currents,
but these currents are too intermittent to allow of the magnet’s acting upon them.
At 90™" I have obtained a small stream under the form of a bluish-white
filament, which, the ring being positive, turned at the rate of thirty-five times
per minute; but, at the lapse of some instants, it became subdivided into a
multitude of small, irregular streams, and rotation was no longer perceptible. As
far as 40™™, the action of the magnet was indistinct. At 30™™, the negative
ring was covered with small violet sheaths, at equal intervals, which seemed to
experience, at the moment it was magnetized, a tendency to move in one direc-
tion or the other, according to the direction of the magnetization. The same
was the case with the small brilliant points, likewise distributed at minute in-
tervals, with which the ring, when positive, is covered. At 5™™, and still more
at three and at two, the ring is entirely covered, when it is negative, with a fine
violet-colored sheath, which becomes contracted under the influence of the mag-
net. ‘The top of the iron rod, which is then positive, is surrounded by a beau-
tiful white aureole, slightly tinged with rose, three centimetres in breadth, and
stratified in a very marked degree. Magnetization sensibly contracts this au-
reole, and compresses its strize without diminishing their number, clevating it,
and, at the same time, giving it the form of a pear resting with its base on the
magnetic pole. When this pole is the negative electrode, there issues from it,
as we have seen, a brilliant tuft of a violet color, which conforms itself to the
action of the magnet. ‘

All the phenomena just described show, in a striking manner, the molecular
differences which various elastic fluids present, as regards one another, even at
an advanced degree of rarefaction. Thus.in hydrogen, although that gas is a
very good conductor of electricity, electric currents can, with difficulty, and,
indeed, scarcely at all, obey the action of the magnet, probably by reason of the
slight density of the gas. In air, and in nitrogen, it is quite otherwise, and still
more when these gases are humid. ‘The singular property possessed by the
electric current of dividing itself into several small and distinct streams, instead
of diffusing itself, under the influence of magnetization, when the medium which
transmits it contains a more or less quantity of vapor, would seem to indicate
in the vapor a greater cohesion than in the gases properly so called, if, indeed,
we may employ the term cohesion when the question relates to elastic fluids so
much rarefied. It might also be possible that this division into streamlets is

+
192 PHENOMENA ACCOMPANYING PROPAGATION OF ELECTRICITY.

the result of an optical illusion, due to a very rapid succession of jets emanating
from different points, and which, in reality, are not simultaneous. This is a
point for examination.

However this may be, it is evident that the study of the stratification of elee-
tric light, and of the action of the magnet on the discharges in different gaseous
mediums, discloses differences between those mediums which can only result
from their difference of molecular constitution. Density, in particular, would
appear to have a great influence on this order of phenomena, since we see hy-
drogen manifest them in so feeble a degree, while the vapors of water, and
especially of aleohol and ether, present them in so decided a manner. The
proper nature of elastic fluids, opposing more or less resistance to the transmis-
sion of electricity, must, doubtless, also play its part. It might not be impos-
sible then, that, in a more detailed and more exhaustive study of the phenomena
with which our attention has been occupied, and more particularly of those re-
lating to the action of the magnet on electric currents propagated in much rare-
fied elastic fluids, we may be able to find the means of acquiring some new ideas
on the physical constitution of bodies, and on the manner in which the propa-
gation of electricity is therein effected.
REPORT ON THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

SOCIETY OF PITYSICS AND NATURAL HESTORY OF GENEVA,

FROM JULY, 1862, TO JUNE, 1863.

BY PROFESSOR MARCET, PRESIDENT.

TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

«

In proceeding, as has been the custom of my predecessors, to present an
account of the labors of the society during the year just elapsed, it is but
proper that I should acknowledge how greatly my task has been facilitated by
the scrupulous exactness with which the reports of our several meetings have
been drawn up by our secretary, M. Ed. Claparéde. Among the topies claiming
my attention, many have been already communicated to the public, or are*about
to be so, through the medium of scientific journals ; as regards these, therefore,
I shall restrict myself to an indication of the titles, or a very summary analysis
of the conclusions arrived at.. In the arrangement of subjects I cannot do better
than adopt the division into two sections, that of the physical and that of the

“natural sciences, first proposed by M. de la Rive, and since observed by the
greatcr part of the presidents who have succeeded him. I shall follow, more-
over, the example of my immediate predecessor in touching very lightly on the
discussions which have taken place cither on the occasion of original memoirs
read before the society or of verbal.reports on recent discoveries made in other
countries; not that these discussions have not often possessed a genuine interest,
but because it is essential, if this valuab'e observance is to be retained by us,
that the appreciation of the labors of others, the verbal communications in
which one is sometimes led to enunciate ideas arising at the moment and perhaps
not always sufficiently considered, should receive no greater publicity than that
which results from the reading of the journal of our sittings.

PHYSICAL SCIENCES.

Our indefatigable colleague, Professor Gautier, has continued to keep the
“society well informed of the discoveries made in astronomy. His communica-
tions have been numerous and diversified; we must here limit ourselves to the
mention of the most important. M. Gautier presented to the society, in the first
place, a report on the observations of M. d’Arrest, of Copenhagen, relative to
the number and to the variability in brightness of the nebula, as well as to
certain points, still doubtful, which would tend to indicate a proper movement
in some of those bodies; secondly, an account of a memoir of M. Lamon on the
periods of the variations of magnetie declination, and the analysis of researches
by M. Maine on the flattening of Mars, which he estimates at 345; thirdly, a
report on some recent observations of M. Donati on the comets, and on a memoir
of the same author relative to stellar spectra: M. Gautier announced on this
13s
194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF

oceasion that Father Secchi also was occupied in the study of stellar spectra
compared with the solar spectrum ; fourthly, M. Gautier presented lastly to the
society a plate of I’ather Secchi, representing the different appearances of the
nucleus of the comet of 1862, differences which, as M. Wartmann, sr., has
pointed out, might result, at least in part, from the circumstance that the
observations took place at different hours.

Professor Plantamour announces that he has collated the series of observa-
tions made for twenty years on the latitude of the observatory of Geneva.
That latitude would be 46° 11/ 58.75, with a mean error of some hundredths
of a second. : ‘

Meteorology and terrestrial physics establishing a natural bond between
astronomy and physies properly so called, we shall first direct our attention to
several communications which we owe to Professor Plantamour. Besides the
annual meteorological summary for Geneva and Saint-Bernard, published, as
usual, in the archives of the physical and natural sciences of the “ Bibliotheque
Universelle,” M. Plantamour has communicated to the society an interesting
memoir relative to observations made at Geneva, for thirty-five years, on the
force and direction of the winds. He has found that in winter the number of
northeast and that of southwest winds balance each other; the northeast pre-

dominates in spring and in autumn, the southwest in summer. The general
resultant is a little west of north, which proceeds from the fact that the mean -

direction of northeast winds more nearly approximates to north than does the
mean direction of southwest winds to south. ‘The above results are somewhat
modified if the origin of the winds be taken into account and if local are dis-
tinguished from general winds. 'The former depend chiefly on the vicinity of
the lake and the variation of temperature in the twenty-four hours, giving rise

to a regular breeze morning and evening, analogous to breezes of the land and

sea. ‘lhe memoir of M. Plantamour has been lately published in his extensive —

work on the climate of Geneva. (See page 14, et sequent.)

The same savant read to the socicty a memoir on the diurnal variations: of
the atmospheric pressure, a memoir likewise published in the work just men-
tioned. After having passed in review and combated as insufficient the theories
proposed by MM. Krail and Dové, M. Plantamour concludes in favor of that
proposed by M. Lamon, according to which the phenomenon of the diurnal
variation would depend on two distinct influences, one resulting from the tem-
perature properly so called, the other from a kind of electric attraction, whose
nature is as yet completely unknown, but owing probably to the action of the
sun. M. Plantamour founds his preference for this theory over the preceding
on the consideration that it furnishes the means of explaining the double diurnal
oscillation which is observed in the barometer, while the influence of the tem-
perature, it would appear, ought to produce but a single one. The author
presents, in support of his opinion, a comparative table of the:diurnal variation
of the temperature and of the barometer for Geneva and Saint-Bernard.

‘To complete our analysis of what relates to terrestrial physics and meteor-
ology, I have still to notice two communications, one from Professor de la Rive,
relative to an aurora borealis observed in the month of December, in which the
rotation of the arch from east to west was perfectly evident, and another from
M. Louis Soret, who has presented to the Society an apparatus constructed
according to his directions in the workshop of M. Schwerdt, an apparatus de-
signed for the measurement of heights by a determination of the temperature of
the ebullition of water. In the construction of this instrument, the chief object

of M. Soret has been to attain a perfect precision in thermometrical indications, _

a condition which has heretofore been wanting. He has sueceeded, on the one
hand, by surrounding the ball of the thermometer with two envelopes of vapor
instead of one, in abating the variations of temperature proceeding from with-
out; and, on the other hand, he prevents the effect of an ebullition often too
PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 195

much precipitated, by immersing the bottom of the lamp of alcohol, by the flame
of which the water is to be made to boil, in a bath of cold water. The sole, yet
somewhat grave objection which has been advanced against this apparatus, is,
that in astill greater degree perhaps than the barometer, it requires to be observed
with scrupulous care, and demands precautions which can searcely be ex-
pected on the part of observers who are not physicists.

If we pass now to physics properly socalled, we shall see that, as in the
past, it is electricity which has played the principal part in the communications
made to the Society during the year under review. Our colleague, M. de la
Rive, has communicated to us, at two consecutive meetings, the results of his
researches on the phenomena which characterize and accompany the propagation
of electricity in highly rarefied elastic fluids. In the classification of his ap-
paratus, M. de la Rive insists more particularly on the means which he has em-
ployed to measure the intensity of the discharges or transmitted currents, by
availing himself of a derived current taken by means of two small sounds of
platina, in the distilled water placed in the circuit of the principal current.
He also describes a manometer which enables him to appreciate to nearly the
fiftieth part of a millimetre, and, for practiced eyes, even to the hundredth part,
the tension of the elastic fluid submitted to experiment. 'The researches of
M. de la Rive have been directed to atmospheric air, nitrogen, and hydrogen.
He has studied, in the case of each of these gases, the influence of the dimen-
sions and form of the gaseous mass, as well as of the pressure, on its capacity
for transmitting electricity. He has described the successive appearances
which the electric light assumes, in proportion as the pressure of the gas dimin-
-ishes, and particularly the variable form and size of the stratifications of that

light, together with the formation of a violet-colored photosphere around the ball
' serving as a negative electrode, and of a black space, from five to ten centi-
metres in length, which separates that photosphere from the stratified luminous
column. He has satisfied himself, in the course of a great number of ex-
periments, that these appearances of electric light in rarefied gases are
due to a mechanical effect produced by the transmission of electricity, an idea
which had already been advanced by M. Riess. M. de la Rive has suce-
ceeded in showing, by direct experiments, that the mechanical effect in ques-
tion consists in a considerable dilatation of the gaseous matter near the negative
electrode, followed by alternate contractions and dilatations in the column up to
the positive electrode. First. He was easily able to verify, by means of the
manometer, the existence of the oscillatory movement in the gaseous column,
and the variations in its intensity, which depends, as he has shown, on the
nature, degree of tension, and dimensions of the gaseous mass in question.
Secondly. Hehas demonstrated experimentally thatif, by means of small sounds
of platina suitably arranged, derived currents are taken in different parts of the
luminous column, all traversed by the same discharge, great differences will be
found in the intensity of these currents, differences which prove that the ob-
scure parts possess a greater conducting capacity, and are consequently the most
dilated. With hydrogen, the best conductor of the gases, no derived current
is obtained in the obscure part of the column. Thirdly. M. de la Rive points
out that the indications of the thermometer placed in different parts of the
“stratified column conduct us to the same results, by evincing great differences
between the temperatures of those different parts ; the more obscure parts being
sensibly less warm than the luminous, which proves that the former are better
conductors. The author has obtained a great number of numerical results, in-
dicating the differences of temperature, at different pressures of various portions
of the gaseous column traversed by the discharges.

M. de la Rive completed his communication at a subsequent session, by ex-
plaining to the Society the modifications produced in the phenomena relative to
the propagation of electricity, through highly rarefied mediums, by the action of
196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF

a strong magnetic power. This action tends to augment the resistance of the
gascous substance ¢o the transmission of electricity, by condensing the gaseous
filaments, and has in particular the effect of rendering luminous the obscure
part of the column, by contracting the previously too much dilated gas which
oceurs there. Lastly, the attention of M. de la Rive was especially drawn to
the rotatory and expansive action of magnetism on the electric discharge. THe
has succeeded in obtaining, in regard to this point, certain very constant facts,
such as those relative to the duration of the rotatory movement of the discharge,
which varies with the direction of the current, the nature of the gas, and its
degree of density. He has also remarked the very great difference which the
phenomenon presents, according as the rarefied gas is dry or contains vapor
of water or of alcohol. In the first case, the luminous discharge expands under
the influence of magnetism into a sheet which forms the surface of a sector, or
even that of a full circle when the gas is very much rarefied. In the case in
which vapor is present in the rarefied gas, the discharge, instead of expanding,
divides into a greater or less number of small partial jets at equal interspaces,
forming, as it were, a star animated by a movement of rotation around its centre.
These phenomena, and others of the same kind, have led M. de la Rive to
establish a difference between permanent gases and vapors, in reference to the
point of cohesion, or rather their molecular constitution. The author termi-
nated the reading of his memoir with some general considerations on this exten-
‘sive subject; announcing that, for the present, conclusions too absolute would
be premature, and that he abstains from presenting them until he shall have
completed his researches by extending them to a greater number of gaseous
substances. :

If we have enlarged a little more than is usual in an analysis of the memoir
of M. de la Rive, we find a justification, not only in the importance of the sub-
ject, but in the circumstance that the results which he obtained have been here-
tofore published only in fragments. ‘The entire memoir is about to appear in
the seventeenth volume of the Memotrs of the Society, now in the press.*

It should be added, that we owe to M. de la Rive the model of a new system
of Grove’s apparatus. 'Vhe modification which he has introduced into the bat-
tery of that physicist is essentially calculated to render its management more
commodious and prompt. Lis instrument, which is extremely manageable, and
is furnished with conductors of alumina, possesses the advantage of requiring
little manipulation, and of rendering superfluous the removal of the nitric
acid; the same acid suffices for the service of several days.and many experi-
ments. With the help of a single pair of this battery, M. de la Rive has been
able to repeat all the principal experiments of the clectro-dynamics of Ampére—
experiments which usually require five or six pairs of Grove or of Bunsen.

Besides some verbal communications by Professor Wartmann relative to
electrical phenomena, particularly to the limit of pressure which permits a
spark to pass through a gascous medium, as well as to the influence which the
state of tension of a gascous medium exercises on the passage of a current, the
savant just named cngaged the attention of the society by an account of some
of the principal subjects diseussed in the last reunion of the British Association
at Cambridge, at which he was present. Among the communications made on
that occasion, M. Wartmann cites more particularly the observations of M.
Nasmith relative to the structure of the sun. ‘lo avoid the inconvenience of a
too great light, M. Nasmith, instead of introducing the solar rays dircetly into
the eye,*places near the object glass a lens which is plane on the side next the
eye, but concave on the opposite side, so as to disperse the luminous rays and
allow the study of only the quantity of light reflected by the plane surface.
Phe author has thus been able to ascertain that towards the hour of noonday

A full translation of this interesting memoir is given in this report.—See page

PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 197

the luminous envelope of the sun presents a great number of spindle-shaped
images, which might be compared to willow leaves strewn confusedly over its
surface. Of these M. Wartmann has presented to the Society a photograph
taken from the original designs of M. Nasmith. These images seem to be dis-
placed one by another, sometimes parallel to their axis, sometimes by an angu-
lar movement. The preceeding observations have been confirmed by M. Prit-
chard, who announces that they may be repeated with a good telescope of from
three to four inches. M. Wartmann also gave an account of experiments in
telegraphic electricity by M. Wheatstone, which he witnessed, and by which
it is practicable to obtain despatches written with extraordinary rapidity.

The same physicist communicated to the Society a note relative to an clee-
trical phenomenon observed by M. Alizier, teacher at Geneva, July 24, 1856,
on the summit of the Oldenhorn. Of a sudden the staves borne by M. Alizier
and the persons who accompanied him began to sound in the manner of the
posts of the telegraph. In a few moments a heavy storm of hail descended.

Professor de la Rive, on his return, in May, 1863, from a sojourn in Paris,
reported to the Society several new scientific facts which he had gathered. He
drew attention, in particular, to an investigation of M. Helmholtz, by which that
savant had arrived, simultaneously with M. W. Thompson, at the conclusion
that the earth cannot be liquid in its interior. He also thinks himself entitled
to affirm that it is not necessary to recur to the hypothesis of aerolites falling
continually into the sun, in order to explain the persistence of the high tem-
perature of that body. It suffices to admit that the sun, having become heated
by an undetermined cause, is now growing cold with extreme slowness; for,
according to M. Helmholtz, the calculations heretofore made greatly exag-
gerated the rapidity of refrigeration in regard to that body, because they
neglected to take account of an important element, namely, that the sun
diminishes in volume as it grows cooler, and that this contraction must de-
velop new heat. ;

M. de la Rive presented to the Socicty, in the name of his son, M. Lucien de
la Rive, a memoir on the number of independent equations in the solution of a
system of linear currents. his memoir, being wholly mathematical, is not
adapted to analysis.

Professor Marcect has continued to impart to the Society many facts relative
to nocturnal radiation; among others, to an altogether abnormal refrigeration
of the surface of the ground, and of the stratum of air in immediate contact
with it, which he has remarked during the first days of March in localities
turned towards the north, not only at the hour of sunset, but even during the
warmest hours of the day. The author attributes this extraordinary cooling
of the surface to the concurrence of several atmospheric circumstances, but
more especially to the extreme dryness which had prevailed for some time, and
which, as Tyndall has proved, peculiarly facilitates the radiation of terrestrial
heat.*

M. Mareet has taken advantage of the residence of his son in Australia, to
induce him to repeat at Queensland, under the 22d degree of south latitude,
the experiments on nocturnal radiation, which have been recently made in our
temperate climates. It would seem to result from these experiments that the
phenomenon of the increase of temperature at certain periods of the day, when
we ascend some fect above the surface of the carth—a phenomenon so well
authenticated in our temperate climates—is not remarked in the regions of the
torrid zone either at the rising or setting of the san; or if it takes place, it is
in a degree seareely sensible, hardly ever execeding 0°.4 Cent. M. Lucien de
la Rive has recently made some observations in Egypt, on the banks of the
Nile, which would appear to lead to an analogous result. M. Marcet explains

* See Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles, April, 1863,
198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF

this apparent anomaly by attributing it to several causes, but more particu-
larly to the great quantity of water, under the form of elastic vapor, held by
the atmosphere in tropical regions, especially in countries but little remote
from the sea—vapor which, it is known, possesses the property of intercepting
in a high degree the dark ‘heat emitted by the ground, and which would
thus contribute to render so much less apparent the effects produced by the
nocturnal radiation.

Communications on chemistry proper have this year been less numerous
than usual. We have searcely anything to cite but some remarkable researches
of Professor Marignac on the tungstates, the fluo-tungstates, and the fluo-
borates. The subject, although of great importance, and treated in a masterly
manner, is too special to allow of my presenting here even a summary analysis.
We may, besides, direct the reader for a detailed extract of the memoir to the
comptes rendus of the Academy of Sciences, in anticipation of its appearance
in extenso in early numbers of the Annales de Chimie et de Physique.

Dr. W. Marcet has drawn the attention of the Society to investigations made
by him on the digestion of fats, particularly on the mode in which the emulsion
of those substances is effected by means of the bile, and prebably also of the
phosphates, which occur abundantly in animal food. 'The same chemist also
communicates experiments, which he has recently undertaken, on the compo-
sition of the gastric juice, and on the changes which it undergoes as to the
degree of acidity during the act of digestion.

NATURAL SCIENCES.

The natural sciences, and more especially geology and paleontology, have
this year had a large share in the labors of the Society. We should mention,
in the first place, several important communications of Professor A. Favre;
and, first, his geological chart of portions of Savoy, Piedmont, and Switzerland,
in the neighborhood of Mont-Blane—a chart drawn on a scale of zzg/5g9> and
which is the result of persevering and conscientious labors pursued since 1840.
M. Favre has also presented us with the geological chart of the Jura mountains
pertainmg to Basle—the first published at the expense of the confederation,
under the care and direction of M. Miiller. It is designed on a seale of 55455.
There is reason to fear, however, that the enterprise cannot be continued in
such wide proportions, and that it will be necessary to return to the scale of
tooo0o: ‘Lhe chart is accompanied by a publication in two series—one for the
Jura, the other for the Alps.

M. Favre also read to the Society a memoir containing a detailed description
of the mountain of the Voirons, of which he has determined the succession of
the different strata. This memoir will soon appear in the text which will ac-
company the chart of Savoy.

The same geologist read to the Society a critical analysis of MM. Koechlin-
Schlumberger and Schimper on the transition deposit of the Vosges—a deposit
referred at present to the old carboniferous series. He also presented, in the
name of M. Studer, a geological memoir on the Balligstock and the Béatenberg,
situated on the borders of the Lake of Thounc—a memoir which has been pub-
lished in the Archives of the Physical and Natural Sciences.

Professor Pictet read to thé Society a note containing critical observations on
the subject of a new stratum, which M. Coquand proposes to introduce into the
series of cretaceous formations—a stratum already known under the name of
“alpine neocomian,”’ and to which he proposes to give that of “ barémian,”
considering it as the equivalent of the yellow stone of Neuchatel. M. Pictet,
without disputing the propriety of a new name, does not admit, between the

oo and the yellow stone of Neuchatel, so precise and restricted a paral-
elism.
eee eee eee

PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 199

The same savant called the attention of the Society to an alleged reptile with
feathers, found in the jurassic of Solenhofer, and described by M. Wagner
as possessing at once the tail of a reptile and the feathers and feet of a bird.
This fossil has been acquired for the British Museum by M. Owen, who will
soon publish a detailed description of it. ‘

The Society has continued to keep itself informed of the facts relative to the
«fossil man.” Its interest has been particularly excited by the discovery of
the human jaw-bone of Moulin-Quignon, near Abbeville. M. Pictet, who took
occasion very recently to study, at Paris, this bone, and the hatchets which ac-
companied it, has set forth to the Society the reasons which seemed to him to
render the authenticity of those objects incontestable, notwithstanding the doubts
at first expressed on this subject by eminent paleontologists. More recently we
have learned with much interest that a sort of scientifie congress had been con-
voked at Paris, and the authenticity admitted with unanimity. It remains to
solve the question of antiquity—that is to say, to decide what place the deposit
of Moulin-Quignon should occupy in the series of quaternary and modern
formations. .

M. Renevier has communicated to us a photographic view of the Diablerets,
geologically colored, and has, at the same time, given to the Society an account
of some recent geological excursions in the vaudese Alps. He has been enabled
to complete the series of jurassic formations in this district by the discovery, in
the Diablerets, of a stratum of bajocian, (inferior oolite,) and of a stratum of
bathonian, (greater oolite,) the first being characterized by a gigantic fucoid.
Finally, M. Renevier announces grains of “chara”? in the nummulitic of the
Diablerets.

We arrive now at organic natural history, and it remains to speak of botany
and zoilogy.

Botany.—Professor De Candolle has presented to the Society several in-
teresting communications relative to vegetable physiology and to botany proper ;
particularly a paper on a new character observed in the fruit of oaks, and on
the best division to adopt for the genus “ Quercus ;” a memoir entitled Studies
on species, occasioned by a revision of the family of Cupulifere, in which the
author discusses the system of Darwin, and the theory, applied to the vegetable
kingdom, of a succession of forms proceeding from the deviations of an anterior
form. Both these memoirs having been published in the archives of the physical
and natural sciences of the Bibliotheque Universelle we shall here content
ourselves with indicating them to savants who are interested in questions of
this kind.

Besides the original memoirs just cited, M. de Candolle brought to the notice
of the Society some interesting results of observations made by M. Schubler
“on plants cultivated in Norway.” The author has shown us in what degree
the deficiency of heat, in northern regions, appears to be compensated by the
prolonged action of the light due to the length of the days; to such an extent
that, in proportion as we advance towards the north, the coloration and sapidity
of plants seem to increase rather than diminish in intensity.

M. de Candolle has also drawn attention to two memoirs of Dr. Hooker. The
first relates to a plant discovered on the African continent, opposite Fernando-Po,
to which he has given the name of Welwitschia. This plant, whose trunk is a
cone of little height, surmounted by a torous (dosselé ) table attaining a diameter
of six feet, presents the singular character of having but two leaves, which are
indeciduous cotyledons. It is the only vegetable known whose cotyledons are
not caducous. The second memoir of M. Hooker relates to the celebrated
group of cedars of Lebanon, which is found to be established on the moraine
of an ancient glacier, and which this botanist visited in 1860. M. Hooker is
inclined to think that, in the present circumstances of climate, this tree could,
with difficulty, establish itself on the mountain where it is found, and pronounces

200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF

the opinion that the old cedars which now exist there are but the remains of ~
an ancient forest, dating from an epoch more favorable to the development of
the species. It is certain, in the mean time, that the cedar of Lebanon, that of
the Himalaya, and that of the Atlas present varieties which it is difficult to
distinguish from one another, Hence M. Ilooker is disposed to admit that
they all descend from one primitive form, which has spread itself over a vast
region when the climate was more temperate than it is at present.

‘To Rev. M. Duby we are indebted for a note relative to observations made
at Bombay, on a champignon or fungus which attacks the feet of the natives,
and produces a malady known in the country under the name of *podeleoma
mycetoma.”’ The bones of the foot and lower leg are gradually perforated —
through and through, and the champignon, which bears spores very similar to
those of the oidium, lodges in the cavities thus formed, under the shape of a —
spongy mass. M. Duby has also occupied our attention with the very ingenious
observations of M. Darwin on “the mode of fecundation of the red flax.” The
same botanist ‘also announces that he has observed in the Cadlistachys linearis
a very remarkable movement of the inferior leaves which, at the decline of day
embrace the stem, while the superior leaves embrace the ear. .

Zoilogy and Physiology.—Dr. Dor called the attention of the Society to a
new theory of Daltonism, or rather to an old theory of Young, to which there
seems to be a tendency to recur at the present time. Agreeably to this theory 7
there exist in the retina three descriptions of nervous fibres; the first sensitive
to red, the second to green, the third to violet. Daltonists, then, would be
those in whom one of these orders of, fibres: is completely paralyzed. M. Dor
has also proposed a new scale of characters for measuring the distinctness of
vision.

M. Victor Fatio presented to the Society a specimen of a lizard of the Alps
ealled “ Lacerta nigra,”’ regarded by some authors as constituting a particular
species. M. Fatio is rather disposed to consider it as being but a simple variety
of the “ Lacerta vivipara,’”’ and he adduecs the reasons which lead him to hold
this opinion.

The same physiologist read to the Society a note on the habits of the “ pléo-
bate cultripede,” of the coasts of Brittany. Te has ascertained that this batra-
chian is a nocturnal animal, which buries itself during the day in the sand, and
remains there till night in a state of complete immobility. M. Fatio has also
communicated to us a plan of geographical distribution, designed to form the
basis of an extensive work, which he has undertaken with the view of making
a complete catalogue of the vertebrata of Switzerland.

To complete what we have to say on organic natural history, we should
mention an interesting notice by M. Muller, relative to the recent modifications
which the theory of cellular organization has undergone through the influence
of the labors of MM. Briicke and Max. Schultze; and a communication of M.
Claparede, in which that physiologist renders an account of some epidemie
instances of “trichinus spiralis” lately authenticated in Germany, and more
especially in Saxony. It is now known that the larva of this parasite continues
to live in the flesh of the hog when iusufliciently smoked. Now, a single pair
of these animaleules, arriving at maturity in the human intestine, suffice to
infect with larvae all the muscles of the body, and to occasion the gravest con-
sequences, sometimes even death. The danger of such an infection is now so
fully realized that the inhabitants of Planen, in Saxony, have established at

_ their slaughier-house an official, provided with a inicroscope, and have prohibited
the sale of hogs whose flesh has uot been previously examined with the help of
that instrument.*

LSP MEAN Sid's: a pal ey ae
* Por an appendix to this part of the report see the end of this article.

|

PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 201

Dr. Gosse has communicated to the Society a note of M. Campbell relative
to the frequency of goitre, in the districts near the foot of the Himalaya—a
malady with which also goats and sheep are frequently infected when they de-
scend from the mountain Lastly, Dr. Lombard has read to us a detailed
extract of observations publishe1 by M. Jordannet, a French physician, on the
climate of Mexico, considered in a medical point of vie

Having thus presented a cursory review of our proceedings during the past
year, my task unfortunately is still incomplete ; for, notwithstanding the re-
stricted number of our members, scarcely a year passes in which your presiding
officer, in his annual report, is not called on to deplore the loss of one or more
of them. This year has removed two from among us: one of them, M. Le
Royer, a retired member, of advanced age; the other, M. Etienne Melly, a
member in ordinary, whose years authorized us to hope that we might long re-
tain him. I must not close this report without briefly recalling the titles they
possessed to the esteem of the learned world and the affection of their colleagues.

Etienne Melly, born at Geneva, in 1807, early evinced a decided taste for the
physical sciences. After successfully pursuing the course of our Academy, he
went to Paris to complete his scientific studies, and on his return to his country
was attached to the Industrial school of this city as a teacher of physics and
chemistry, the study of which he may be said to have created in the establish-
ment in question, and from the superintendence of which he never desisted
until the infirm state of his health made it impossible for him to give to his
duties the care and attention which his scrupulous conscience exacted. While
thus employed he prosecuted divers physico-chemical researches of great interest,
only a part of which, owing to his characteristic diffidence, have been commu-
nicated to the public. His two principal publications appeared, the first, in
1839, in the Bibliotheque Universelle, the second, in 1841, in the first volume
of the Archives de V Electricité. ‘The former treats of certain felicitous attempts
which he had made to apply platina to other metals by means of pressure so as
to obtain.a very solid plate, and be thus: able to substitute, in certain chemical
processes, for utensils of platina, utensils of platinized copper. ‘This mode of
platinizing offers greater assurance than that by electricity ; in that it better
resists the action of chemical agents.

The second publication of M. Melly, and that of most importance, embraces
two distinct parts: the first, relating to a more economical construction of the
battery of!Grove, then just invented, and to the study of the chemical effects of
electricity by means of that apparatus. ‘The second part has for its object the
study of the chemical effects of the electric spark, whether produced by Grove’s
battery or by currents of induction. M .Melly sets forth in his memoir the
numerous experiments by which he had succeeded in decomposing, by means
of that spark, not only distilled water, but the most isolating substances, such .
as oils, ethers, alcohol, &e. He establishes, by a well-sustained analysis of the
results he had obtained, the difference which exists between this mode of de-
composition and electro-chemical decomposition properly so called, and he shows
that it is an effect, not of electricity itself, but of the intense heat developed by
the electric spark. ;

We know that this decomposing power of heat, carried to a high degree, has
been since demonstrated in a direct manner upon water, without the interven-

tion of electricity, by M. Grove, and has been extended upon a wide seale to a

multitude of substances by M. Deville, who has called it, “the dissociation of

bodies by heat.’ Still, there will remain to M. Melly the honor of having first,

by his ingenious experiments, called the attention of the learned world to this
important subject. Independently of what he has made known by his publi-
202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF

cations, Melly, who knew no remission of labor, often obtained interesting
results which he kept to himself, or communicated but to a few of his friends.
The distressing state of his health having compelled him, many years since, to
abandon his laboratory, he did not give way to discouragement, but continued
to devote himself with the same ardor to the microscopic investigations which
constituted the scientific interest of his latter days. Of these he has left but
few written notices; their results are contained in his collections, especially in
that of the Diatomez, of which he has left more than fifty boxes, containing as
well the Diatomeze of the environs of Geneva, as those of foreign lands and those
of types determined by known authors. As to the microscopes of which he
availed himself, it may be affirmed that never have the Alge of our country:
been studied with the help of instruments so perfect. Melly, besides, brought
an extreme carefulness to the preparation of microscopic objects; we may judge
of it by the following fact reported by Professor Thury in the interesting notice
which he read of his friend: The collection of Diatomez was twice resumed |
entirely anew by Melly, because the distilled water and alcohol which he had
employed were found to be not absolutely pure.

Of a conversation as frank as amiable, Melly had, moreover, that devotedness
for others, whose character is the most complete self-abnegation. Happy in the
success and welfare of his friends, every feeling of envy and jealousy was so
alien from his nature, that he would not even admit the existence of these evil
sentiments in another. Having suffered in his dearest affections by the loss of
a beloved consort, he remained thenceforward completely isolated. But this
isolation, far from rendering him egoistic, had still more enlarged his heart.
His gratitude, for the cares and attentions of which he was the object on the
part of his friends was as touching as amiable. The religious sentiments which
sustained him in the midst of trials so various and afflicting were always
united in him with a perfect tolerance in regard to those who did not share his
opinions. It was the fruit of an elevated and disinterested nature, such as is
rarely witnessed. He sank, February 4, 1863, after long and acute sufferings.

Auguste Le Royer sprung from an honorable family, and whose ancestors
had been pharmaceutists from father to son ; was born at Geneva, in 1793. After
pursuing his earlier studies in his native city, he went in 1811 to Strasburg,
where he passed eighteen months of preparation in studying pharmacy, his
future vocation. In 1813 he returned to Geneva, took an active part in the
political events of the time, and in 1817 was admitted a pharmaceutist after an
honorable examination. 'Thenceforward Le Royer zealously occupied himself
in scientific labors related to his profession. It was in 1818 that the illustrious
Dumas, then ten years of age, entered himself as a clerk with Le Royer, and
subsequently became his principal assistant. Besides these friendly connexions
with Dumas, Le Royer contracted others with Dr. Prevost, taking part in many
of the physiological researches of the latter in their chemical bearing. In 1821
he was adopted as a member of this Society and of the Helvetic Society of
natural sciences. 'The departure of M. Dumas for Paris, in 1823, compelled
Le Royer to occupy himself almost exclusively with pharmacy, and I know not
that he has published anything since 1824. Nevertheless, he preserved a taste
for study, and always encouraged the scientific labors of those who approached
him. Like Etienne Melly, with whom he had more than one trait of conformity,
an extreme modesty pushed almost to timidity, joined to delicate health, pre-
vented Le Royer from making that mark in science to which he might have
pretended: ‘The following is a list of the articles which he published jointly
with Dr. Prevost :

1. Note on the free acid contained in the stomach of the herbivoré, (Memoirs
of the Society of Physics and Natural History, vol. II, 2d part.)

2. A memoir on digestion in the ruminants, ( Bibliotheque Universelle for
1824, vol. XX VIL.)

PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY. OF GENEVA. 203

3. Observations on the contents of the digestive canal in the foetus of the
vertebrates, ( Bibliotheque Universelle, vol. X XIX.)

Lastly, he published alone in the Bibliotheque Universelle, vol. XXVI, a
memoir on the active principle contained in the “ purple digitalis.”

Having become a valetudinarian in 1850, in consequence of rheumatic affee-
tions, Le Royer was struck, in 1860, with cerebral apoplexy, which kept him
riveted to his chair till the moment of his death, a few weeks since, without any
notable abatement of his intellectual faculties.

APPENDIX ON THE TRICHINIASIS.

We annex the following additional information in respect to Trichiniasis,
mentioned in the preceding article:

A few months ago there was a festive celebration in Hettstadt, a small coun-
try town near the Hartz Mountains, in Germany. Upwards of a hundred per-
sons set down to an excellent dinner, and having enjoyed themselves more
majorum, separated, and went to their homes.

Of these one hundred and three persons, mostly men in the prime of life,
eighty-three are now in their graves; the majority of the twenty survivors lin-
ger with a fearful malady; and a few only walk apparently unscathed among
the living, but in hourly fear of an outbreak of the disease which has carried
away such numbers of their fellow-diners.

They had all eaten of a poison at that festive board, the virulence of which
far surpasses the reported effects of agua tophana, or of the more tangible
agents described in toxicological text-books. It was not a poison dug out of
the earth, extracted from plants, or prepared in the laboratory of the chemist.
It was not a poison administered by design or negligence. But it was a poison
unknown to all concerned; and was eaten with the meat in which it was con-
tained, and of which it formed a living constituent.

When the festival at Hettstidt had been finally determined upon, and the
dinner had been ordered at the hotel, the keeper of the tavern arranged his bill
of fare. ‘The introduction of the third course, it was settled, should consist, as
usual in those parts of the country, of Rostewurst und Gemiise. The Roste-
wurst was, therefore, ordered at the butcher’s the necessary number of days
beforehand, in order to allow of its being properly smoked. he butcher, on
his part, went expressly to a neighboring proprictor, and bought one of two
pigs from the steward, who had been commissioned with the transaction by his
master. It appears, however, that the steward, unfortunately, sold the pig
which the master had not tended to sell, as he did not deem it sufficiently fat
or well-conditioned. ‘Thus the wrpng pig was sold, carried on a barrow to the
butcher, killed and worked up into sausages. ‘The sausages were duly smoked
and delivered at the hotel. ‘There they were fried and served to the guests. at
the dinner table.

On the day after the festival, several persons who had participated in the
dinner were attacked with irritation of the intestines, loss of appetite, great
prostration and fever. ‘lhe number of persons attacked rapidly increased ; and
great alarm was excited in the first instance by the apprehension of an impend-
ing epidemic of typhus fever or continued fever, with which the symptoms ob-
served showed great similarity. But when, in some of the cases treated by the
same physician, the features of the illness began to indicate at first, acute peri-
tonitis, then pneumonia of a circumscribed character, next paralysis of the inter-
costal muscles and the muscles in front of the neck, the hypothesis of septic
fever, though sustained in other cases, had to be abandoned with respect to these
particular cases. Some unknown poison was now assumed to be at the bottom
204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF "

of the outbreak ; and an active inquiry into all the cireumstances of the dinner
was instituted. Every article of food and material was subjected to a most
rigid examination, without any result in the first instance. But when the symp-
tons in some of the cases invaded the muscles of the leg, particularly the calves
of some of the sufferers, the description which Zenker had given of a fatal case
of trichinous disease was remembered. ‘The remnants of sausage, and of pork
employed in its manufacture, were examined with the microscope, and found
to be literally swarming with encapsuled trichine. From the suffering muscles
of several of the victims small pieces were excised, and under the microscope
found charged with embryonic trichinée in all stages of development. It could
not be doubted any longer, that as many of the one hundred and three as had
had partaken of Rosfewurst had been infested with trichinous disease by eating
of trichinous pork, the parasites of which had, at least in part, escaped the
effects of smoking and frying.

This awful catastrophe awakened sympathy and fear throughout the whole
of Germany. Most of the leading physicians were consulted in the interest of
the sufferers, and some visited the neighborhood where most of the afilicted
patients remained. But none could bring relicf or cure. With an obstinacy
unsurpassed by any other infectious or parasitic disease, trichiniasis carried its
victims to the grave. Many anthelmintics were arrayed to destroy, if not the
worms already in the flesh, at least those yet remaining in the intestinal canal,
Picric acid was employed until its use seemed as dangerous as the disease;
benzole, which had promised well in experiments upon animals, was tried, but
was unavailing. As patient after patient died off, and the dissection of each
proved the parasites to have been quite unaffected by the agents employed, the
conviction was impressed upon every mind that a man afflicted with flesh-worm
is doomed to die the slow death of exhaustion from nervous irritation, fever, and
loss of muscular power in parts of the system essential to existence.

But medical science had only just unravelled a mystery ; and if it could not
save the victims, it was determined at least to turn the occasion to the next
best account. The cases were therefore observed with care and chronicled
with skill. All the multifarious features of the parasitic disease were registered
in such a manner that there can hereafter be no difliculty in the diagnosis of
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,
the appearance of the flesh-worm under the thin mucous membrane on the
in sucn'd mdtfler‘tnat were’ can fereltter’ pe n6 ‘ainiéuiry im tne aaghosis 6f
this disorder. A valuable diagnostic feature was repeatedly observed, namely,

