Greed te

A sy niet
AE Ee

4

a EAS
 .
See a

tit a 8 weet
if aN SRP RON EAE
UE GU INEE

BY aa ya

Rita Mistinlh

fressyass
3} igs

Ss ath
5

th! ‘lon

es
aha ee ety
or wn aE US viltonsy

AW

f 3 Vol tall
AANA Talaa AAR aay

}

Wey a a
Aa AA A }
Ar VAY ial Ne: x
AAA
Ripa:

aA

AMA

\
Aan

A

ee
ee

i

a! cee 2

Kean ec
Se ag cx
me s << =

Stan oe /< J cm
: “<b, SC
‘<< ee. <<

wm a ee
enc eee

ivi | onan

Wu WUE Muu Ueinyy TL aly Way ict yi VW

ivi wwe /
Oy V
IN

| ele
ee Wit

wie Wwe W WwW WO
wat WYvury"
ase eee
tea Uebvo aaa Re uae or cee ouOeeY i)

al iM wie vie WY ix \w
Myvyy yo Ath 3, MOM NY

ie we

oe Me tees

j
' © 34th Conaregss, _ SENATE. Mrs. Doc.
1st Session. Noss Fd:

TENTH ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SILOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTI-
TUTION, UP TO JANUARY 1, 1856.

AND TILE

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO MARCH 22, 1856.

WASHINGTON:
A. O. P. NICHOLSON, PRINTER.
1856.
LETTER

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

COMMUNICATING

The Tenth Annual Report of the Board of Regents of that Institution.

Jury 25, 1856.—Read, and ordered to be printed. Motion to print 10,000 additiona
copies referred to the Committee on Printing.
Juny 29, 1856.—Ordered, That ten thousand additional copies of the Tenth Annual Report
of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution be printed ; twenty-five hundred of the
same to be for the use of the Institution.

. SMITHSONIAN InstITUTION,
Washington, July 24, 1856.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to
submit to the Senate of the United States the Tenth Annual Report
of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian
Institution.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. J. D. Brieur,
President of the United States Senate.
TENTH ANNUAL REPORT

BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY
1, 1856, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO MARCH 22, 1856.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a Report of the operations, expenditures, and
condition of the Institution, the following documents:

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations of the Institution during the year 1855.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an
account of the expenditures for the year 1855.

3. Report of the Building Committee for 1855.

4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to March 22, 1856.

5. Appendix.

Respectfully submitted :
R. B. TANEY, Chancellor.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

FRANKLIN PIERCE, £x officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.

W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, }

JAMES A. PEARCE, + Executive Committee,
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN,
RICHARD RUSH, )

WILLIAM H. ENGLISH,
JOHN T. TOWERS. |
JOSEPH HENRY, |

Caniidine Committee.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

, Vice President of the United States.

,OGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.

JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington.

JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States.
JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States.
STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS, member of the Senate of the United States,
WILLIAM H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives.
HIRAM WARNER, member of the House of Representatives.
BENJAMIN STANTON, member of the House of Representatives,
GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York.

RICHARD RUSH, citizen of Penrsylvania,

GEORGE E. BADGER, citizen of North Carolina.

CORNELIUS C. FELTON, citizen of Massachusetts.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, citizen of Washington.

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, citizen of Washington.
MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

FRANKLIN PIERCE, President of the United States.

, Vice President of the United States.
WILLIAM L. MARCY, Secretary of State.

JAMES GUTHRIE, Secretary of the Treasury.
JEFFERSON DAVIS, Secretary of War.

JAMES C. DOBBIN, Secretary of the Navy.

JAMES CAMPBELL, Postmaster General.

CALEB CUSHING, Attorney General.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
CHARLES MASON, Commissioner of Patents.

JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS.

ROBERT HARE, of Pennsylvania,
WASHINGTON IRVING, of New York.
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, of Connecticut.
PARKER CLEAVELAND, of Maine.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTI TION

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.)

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a
Plan of Organization.

1. Wit or Smrruson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, “to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.”’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator,

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, to
diffuse knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addi-
tion of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus
increased, among men.

6. Phe will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provi-
sionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution,
8 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF inal

. ‘ji ‘
a considerable portion of the interest which Pos accrued should be
added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to ‘be cultivated,
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the
construction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of the organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library,
a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to
contain them,

SECTION I.

Plan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with the forego-
ing deductions from the Will of Smithson.

To Increase Knowneper. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by ofter-
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To Dirruse Kynowneper. It is proposed— e

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge ; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.
1. By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Know-
ledge.

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be accepted for
publication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human
knowledge, resting on original research ; and all unverified specula-
tions to be rejected.

4, Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in
+ THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. i)
’ ‘ =

the branch to which the memoir pertains ; and to be accepted for pub-
lication only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution,
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a
favorable decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the Transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the
colleges, and principal libraries, in this country. One part of the
remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully pre-
served, to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from
new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

>

Il. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects ; so that in
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithso-
nian Contributions to Knowledge.

4, Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological,
magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina-
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of
light ; chemical analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publica-
tion of scientific facts, accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the
different races of men in North America; also, explorations and ac-
curate surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people
of our country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE

I. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the
new cliscoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year
in all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally in-
teresting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some
*
10 . TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF ’

of the reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals,
as the income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of
knowledge may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators, eminent in the
different branches of knowledge.

8. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report ;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it
without purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu-
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific insti-
tutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in
the reports :*

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry,
and meteorology.
. Natural History, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.
. Agriculture.
. Application of science to arts.

He CO bo

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5, Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, We.

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c.

I. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern hterature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general in-
terest.

1, These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission
of competent judges, previous to their publication.

* This part of the plan has been but partially carried out.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. pig

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in
the table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated
the formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents,
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income* into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of
a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4, To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more
important current periodical publications, and other works necessary
in preparing the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of
experimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio-
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work
which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary
to purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art, casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other
similar societies.

*% The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of

PHeUnibeds Suaneghinee sia See ee aa = 2 eee eee el ier eet = = $515, 169 00
Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the
pul dings)... aaa eee eee siale <= aati ea otal aim == 242, 129: 00:

Annual income from the bequest-....-.--------------------------- 30,910 14
1s TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, Wc.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be-
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except
one, to act as librarian.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property,
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents,
employ assistants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art ; distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be-
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15,
1855, viz:

Resolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents,
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the in-
come between the active operations and the museum and library,
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents,
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic import-
ance, and a compliance in good faith with the law.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 13

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GentiemEN: The year which has elapsed since the last meeting of
the Board of Regents has been marked by events which must have a
decided influence on the future history of the establishment intrusted
to your care. The plan of organization adopted, and the operations
in accordance with it, have been widely discussed by the public. The
subject has also been brought before Congress, and referred to a spe-
cial committee of the House of Representatives, and to the Judiciary
Committee of the Senate. The committee of the House had not time,
before the close of the session, to visit the Institution, or to make such
an examination of the management and the condition of its affairs as
the importance of the matter referred to them would seem to demand.
The members were divided in opinion as to the question of further le-
gislation, and no action was taken upon the reports which they pre-
sented. The Judiciary Committee of the Senate reported on the sub-
ject, and unanimously approved the acts of the Regents in construing
the law of Congress, in interpreting the will of Smithson, and in what
they had done in the way of increasing and diffusing knowledge among
men.

The discussions that have taken place in the journals of the day in
regard to the policy pursued by the Institution, together with the print-
ing of an extranumber of copies of the Regents’ report to Congress,
have given the public generally an opportunity of becoming more
fully acquainted than heretofore with the character of the trust, and
the manner in which it has been administered. From the number of
letters received during the past year, containing spontaneous expres-
sions of opinion relative to the course pursued by the Regents, there
can be no doubt that the policy which has been adopted is the one
most in accordance with the views of a majority of the intelligent part
of the community.

It is not contended that the plan of organization is in all respects
what could be wished; on the contrary, it is believed that more of the
income is devoted to local objects—in the support of a large building
and the expensive establishment necessarily connected with it—than
is entirely consistent with a proper interpretation of the will of Smith-
son. But in establishing an institution in which various opinions
were to be regarded, the question was not, what, in the abstract, was
the best system, but the best which, under the circumstances, could
be adopted. It can hardly be expected that any plan, however faith-
fully and cautiously pursued, will: give general, not to say universal,
satisfaction. In the faithful discharge of their duty, the directors of
the Institution are liable, frequently, to make decisions which conflict
14 TENTIL ANNUAL REPORT OF

with what is deemed, the interests of individuals ; and when proposi-
tions intended only for personaltadvantage are rejected, a hostile feel-
ing is sometimes engendered, which finds vent in misrepresentation
and public attacks. After due caution has been observed in order to
give no just cause of complaint, such attacks should be disregarded.
The Regents will, doubtless, adhere to the line of policy which has
been adopted; turn neither to the right nor to the left to catch an ap-
parently favorable breath of popular applause, and continte to lead,
rather than follow, public opinion. The directors of the establishment,
whose duty it is to make all that concerns it their special study, ought
1o be better acquainted with the intentions of the donor, and the re-
sults produced by the expenditure of the income of his bequest, than
those who have no responsibility of this kind to induce that attention
to its affairs which could alone qualify them to become proper advisers
as to its operations. ‘

Since the last meeting of the Board, the Institution has not only
sustained, but has extended the reputation it had previously acquired.
The number of applications on favorable terms, even in a commercial
point of view, which have been made from abroad for the Smithsonian
publications, has very much increased, and the number of volumes
received in exchange has exceeded that of any previous year. The
inquiries which have been made of the Institution for information in
regard to different branches of knowledge, the references to it for the
decision of important questions, and the applications for assistance in
the prosecution of original research, indicate an extending field of
usefulness open to its cultivation. Indeed, so many objects of the
highest importance are presented, that much difficulty would be ex-
perienced in the selection of those which should first receive attention,
if the directors were not governed by fixed rules. The tendency to
expand the operations of the Institution beyond its means, enforces
the necessity of constant vigilance and forethought. While much
may be done in the way of advancing knowledge by the judicious ap-
plication of a small fund, it is surprising that so much is expected to
be accomplished by an income so limited as that of this bequest, and
that propositions should frequently be made to the Regents by intel-
ligent persons to embark in enterprises which would involve the ex-
penditure of the whole annual interest on a single object.

The building is at length completed, and its several apartments
are now in a condition to be applied to the uses of the Institution.
As various changes have been made in the original plan, the follow-
ing brief description may not be inappropriate at this time. It con-
sists of a main edifice, two wings, two connecting ranges, four large
projecting towers, and several smaller ones. Its extreme length from
east to west is 447 feet, with a breadth varying from 49 feet to 160
feet. The interior of the east wing is separated into two stories, the
upper of which is divided into a suite of rooms for the accommo-
dation of the family of the Secretary; the lower story principally com-
prises a large single room, at present appropriated to the storage of
publications and the reception and distribution of books connected
with the system of exchange. The upper story of the eastern con-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15

necting range is divided into a number of small apartments devoted
to the operations in natural history, and the lower story is fitted up
as a working laboratory.

The interior of the main edifice is 200 feet long by 50 feet wide, and
consists of two stories and a basement. The upper story is divided
into a lecture-room capable of holding 2,000 persons ; and into two
additional rooms, one on either side, each fifty feet square, one of which
is appropriated to a museum of apparatus, and the other, at present,
toagallery of art. Both are occasionally used as minor lecture-rooms
and for the meetings of scientific, educational, or industrial associa-
tions. The lower story of the main building consists of one large hall
to be appropriated to a museum or a library. It is at present unoc-
cupied, but will be brought into use as soon as the means are pro-
vided for furnishing it with proper cases for containing the objects to
which it may be appropriated. The basement of this portion of the
building is used as a lumber-room and as a receptacle for fuel.

The west wing is at present occupied as a library, and is suffi-
ciently large to accommodate all the books which will probably be
received during the next ten years. The west connecting range is
appropriated to a reading-room.

The principal towers are divided into stories, and thus furnish a
large number of rooms of different sizes, which will all come into use
in the varied operations of the Institution. A large room in the
main south tower is appropriated to the meetings of the ‘‘ Establish-
ment’’ and the Board of Regents; three rooms in one range, in the
main front towers, are used as offices ; and two rooms below, in the same
towers, are occupied by one of the assistants and the janitor; other
rooms in the towers are used for drawing, engraving, and work-shops.
There are in the whole building, of all sizes, ninety different apart-
ments ; of these eight are of a large size, and are intended for public
exhibitions.

The delay in finishing the building has not only been attended with
advantage in husbanding the funds, but also in allowing a more com-
plete adaptation of the interior to the purposes of the Institution. It
is surely better, in the construction of such an edifice, to imitate the
example of the mollusc, who, in fashioning his shell, adapts it to the
form and dimensions of his body, rather than that of another animal
who forces himself into a house intended for a different occupant. The
first point to be settled, in commencing a building, is the uses to
which it is to be applied. This, however, could not be definitely
ascertained at the beginning of the Institution, and hence the next
wisest step to that of not commencing to build immediately, was to
defer the completion of the structure until the plan of operations and
the wants of the establishment were more precisely known.

From the report of the Building Committee it will appear that about
$6,000 remain to be paid upon the contracts, which amount will be met
by the interest of the extra fund during the present year. The whole
amount expended on the building, grounds, and objects connected
with them, is $318,727 01. This exceeds considerably the original
estimate, and the limit which was at first adopted by the Regents.

The excess has been principally occasioned by substituting fire-proof
16 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

materials for the interior of the main building, instead of wood and
plaster, which were originally intended.

It is to be regretted that a design so costly was adopted ; but the
law of Congress” evidently contemplated an expensive building, and
placed no restriction on the Regents as to cost or plan, except the
preservation of the principal of the bequest.

From the report of the Executive Committee it will be seen that not
only has this restriction been observed, but that, notwithstanding the
enhanced expenditure, a considerable augmentation of the fund has
been effected. The original $515,000, received from the bequest of
Smithson, is still in the treasury of the United States; and, after
the present debt on the building shall have been discharged, there
will remain in the hands of the treasurer the sum of $125, 000 of unex-
pended interest. Though this is a favorable condition of the finances,
yet caution in the expenditure is still imperatively required. We
should not forget that the ordinary expenses of the Institution have
constantly increased ; and that, whilst the nominal income has re-
mained the same, the value of money has depreciated ; and, conse-
quently, the capability of the original bequest to produce resuits has
been abridged in a corresponding proportion. Besides, when the
building is entirely occupied, the expense of warming, attendance,
&c., must necessarily be much increased beyond its present amount.
The repairs, on account of the peculiar style of architecture adopted,
will ever be a heavy item of expenditure. The several pinnacles, -
buttresses, and intersecting roofs, all afford points of peculiar ex-
posure to the injuries of the weather. In this connexion, I cannot
help again expressing the hope that Congress will, in due time, relieve
the Institution from the support of this building, and that it will ulti-
mately appropriate at least the greater part of it toa national museum,
for the general accommodation of all the specimens of natural history
and of art, which are now accumulating in the Capital of the nation.
The two wings and connecting ranges would be quite sufficient for all
the operations of the Institution, and a large portion of the funds now
absorbed in the incidental expenses, which have been mentioned, could
be devoted to the more lezitimate objects of the bequest.

It was mentioned in a previous report that the rooms of the upper
story of the building were particularly arranged with a view to accom-
modate the meetings of literary, scientific, and other associations which
might assemble at the seat of government, During the past year the
followins societies have availed themselves of’ the facilities thus af-
forded, viz: the United States Agricultural Society ,the Metropolitan
Mechanics’ Institute, a musical convention of the choirs in this city and
of persons invited from a distance, also a second convention under the
auspices of the Philharmonic Society of Washington. Besides these,
the Teachers’ Association of the District of Columbia has held its
monthly meetings in this building, and the rooms have been frequently
occupied during a single evening for public purposes. The use of the
lecture-room is granted when the object for which it is asked is of
general public utility, and not of a party or sectarian character, or
intended to promote merely individual interests.

Since the death of the lamented Downing, but little has been done
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ei

to complete the general plan of the improvement of the mall proposed
by him and adopted by Congress. An annual appropriation, however,
has been made for keeping in order the lot on which the Smithsonian
building is situated, and it is hoped that in due time the whole reser-
vation from the Capitol to the Washington Monument will, in ae-
‘cordance with the original design, be converted into an extended park.

The Smithsonian building having been completed, the refuse mate-
rial will be removed from the south part of the lot, and the whole
grounds around the institution will then be in a condition for per-
manent improvement. Itis to be regretted that Congress has not
made an appropriation to carry out the suggestion of Dr. Torrey, and
other botanists, of establishing here an arboretum to exhibit the vari-
ous ornamental trees of indigenous growth in this country. The
climate of Washington is favorable to the growth of a very large num-
ber of the products of our forests, and an exhibition of this kind would
serve to render better known our botanical wealth, and to improve the
public taste. The preservation and cultivation of our native trees are
objects of national importance.

A subscription has been collected by the members of the American
Pomological Society for the erection of a monument to the memory of
Downing, and the President has given his consent to the placing of
this in the same lot with the Smithsonian Institution. The monument
will be erected in the course of the present year, and will serve to per-
petuate the memory of a public benefactor, as well as to embellish the
grounds.

Publications.—Since the last meeting of the Board of Regents, the
seventh volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has
been printed and distributed. Owing to certain changes, which were
considered desirable in some of the memoirs mentioned in the last
report, they were not ready in time for the press, and this volume was
consequently made up without them. It therefore does not contain as
many pages of printed matter as some of the previous volumes. It has,
however, a larger number of plates, and consequently the expense of
its publication has been equal to that of any of the preceding ones.

1. Among the papers mentioned in the last report was one by Mr. 8. F.
Haven, librarian of the American Antiquarian Society, on the progress
of information and opinion respecting the archeology of the United
States. The printing of this paper, which is now nearly completed, was
delayed for the purpofe of enabling the author to extend it in some par-
ticulars, and to include in it a more definite account of some branches
of ethnological investigation than was at first contemplated. It will
be recollected that the object of this paper is, first, to present the specu-
lative opinions relative to American antiquities, which preceded any
systematic or scientific investigation, and to exhibit the various hypo-
theses advanced, as to their origin, based upon hints from sacred or
profane history ; secondly, to follow the steps of inquiry, nearly in
_ the order of time, and to present a summary of facts supposed to be

developed, and views entertained at different stages of research and

discovery. When the author, in pursuing his subject, arrived at the

consideration of the period when philological and physiological dedue-
2
18 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

tions, from reliableinformation, werespecially and scientifically brought
to bear upon this investigation, it seemed necessary to enlarge the
original plan, and to exhibit, concisely, the considerations involved
in the discussions, the course they had taken in this country, and the
conclusions to which different writers in these departments of research
had been led.

The last chapter will present a sketch of what appears to be the
aetual information now possessed respecting the vestiges of anti-
quity in the United States, and will include the consideration of the
tollowing points :

Ist. To what places of the American continent the known courses
of the winds and currents might casually bring the vessels of ancient
navigators.

2d. The evidences of foreign communication said to be observable
at those places.

3d. The other known means of access from foreign countries.

Ath. The topography of ancient remains in the United States.

5th. The external character of those remains.

6th. Their local peculiarities.

ith. The character of the articles taken from them, and supposed to
be of contemporaneous origin.

8th. The inscriptions, medals, and other remains, supposed to indi-
cate the use of letters or hieroglyphic symbols.

wards published as a part of the eighth volume of Contributions.

2. The paper mentioned in the last report, on the Tangencies of
Circles and Spheres, by Major Alvord, of the United States army,
has been printed, and is now ready for distribution. It is due to
Professors Church and Gibbes, to whom the memoir was submitted,
to mention that they have given it critical examination, have sug-
gested several improvements, which have been adopted by the author,
and that, in his absence on official duty in Oregon, they have read
the proof-sheets, and corrected the plates and text—a service of no
small moment in the publication of an abstruse mathematical paper,
in which extreme precision, if not absolute accuracy of typography, is
required,

3. The paper on the Aurora Borealis, by Professor Olmsted, de-
scribed in the last report, has also received some emendations, and
is now in the press. The valuable collection of notices of the appear-
ances of the aurora in northern latitudes, by Peter Force, Esq., of
Washington, is also in the hands of the printer, and will form an ap-
pendix to the eighth volume.

4. A corrected edition of the first part of the tables for facilita-
ting the investigation of physical problems, mentioned in the fiith and
sixth reports, has been prepared, and, with the second part of the
same series, is now in the press. No publications of the Institution
have been called for more frequently than these tables. They have
been introduced into Great Britain, and have supplied a want which
has long been felt by the practical cultivator of physical science in
that country, as well as our own.

Hach set of tables has a distinct title and paging, and may be
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 19

separately stitched and distributed in a pamphlet form, or bound to-
gether in a single octavo volume. The following is the list of the
tables: 1. Comparison of the thermometrical scales; 2. A series of
hygrometrical tables ; 3. Tables for comparing the quantities of rain ;
4. A series of tables for comparison of different barometrical scales,
&c.; 5. Tables for computing differences of level by means of the
barometer ; 6. To ascertain elevations by the boiling-point of water ;
7. For the conversion of different measures of length.

A full descriptive list will be found in the appendix.

In connexion with the publication of these tables, I may allude to
the fact which is constantly to be regretted, that, while the charac-
ters which indicate the numerals of ordinary and scientific computa-
tion are the same in all civilized countries, there should exist, in this
age of the world, such a diversity in the standards and divisions of
measures. The present appears to be an auspicious moment for at-
tempting to introduce a uniform system of weights and measures.
This would probably present no great difficulty in the case between
Great Britain and this country, and since England and France are
now allied in a common causesthey might both be induced to agree
upon a general standard; and if this were adopted by all who speak
the English and French languages, it would soon become common to
every part of the civilized world.

5. Another paper submitted for publication is on a special branch
of natural history, called Oology. The design of this memoir is to
give, by means of colored engravings, correct representations of the
eggs of the birds of North America, so far as they have been ascer-
tained, and to accompany each figure with an account of whatever
may be known as to the mode of breeding, the construction of the
nests, and the geographical distribution of the species during the
hatching season. It is believed that this paper will supply a defi-
ciency in the natural history of North America. There is no separate
treatise on its oology, nor do any of the works on American ornitho-
logy furnish reliable descriptions under this head, except in regard
toa few of the more common birds. All our ornithologists, says the
author, Audubon not excepted, have given their attention almost ex-
clusively to the birds, and have omitted to notice the peculiarities: of
their propagation. The reason for this may readily be found in the
difficulty attending the investigation, which is to be appreciated only
by those who have sought to make a study of this branch of natural
history. The author has devoted to this subject all the leisure he
could spare during twenty years, and each year he has been able to
add new contributions to the stock of knowledge, as well as illustra-
tions and specimens to the common store, until he is now enabled to
describe and figure at least four-fifths of the oology of this continent.

In the commencement of the operations of the Institution, the Re-
gents might have hesitated to sanction the publication of a paper on
a subject which at first sight would appear to be so far removed from
‘practical application. But it is believed that since that period, more
just views of the importance of such subjects have become prevalent,
and that the Smithsonian publications themselves have done good
service in diffusing more liberal sentiments. Indeed, it isan import-
20 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ant part of the duty of this Institution to encourage special lines of
research into every department of the varied domain of nature.
Though it might be a perversion of intellect for a large number of
persons in the same country to occupy themselves in any one pursuit
of this kind, when so much on every hand is required to be done, yet
it is highly meritorious in any individual to devote himself systemati-
cally, industriously, and continuously, for years, to the elucidation of
a single subject. He may be said to resemble in this respect the ex-
plorer of an inhospitable region, who enables the world to see through
his eyes the objects of wonder and interest which would otherwise be
forever withdrawn from human knowledge. Let censure or ridicule
fall elsewhere—on those whose lives are passed without labor and
without object ; but let praise and honor be bestowed on him who
seeks with unwearied patience to develop the order, harmony, and
beauty of even the smallest part of God’s creation. <A life devoted
exclusively to the study of a single insect, is not spent in vain. No
animal, however insignificant, is isolated ; it forms a part of the great
system of nature, and is governed by the same general laws which
control the most prominent beings of: the organic world.

It is proposed to publish this paper in a number of parts, com-
mencing with the oology of the birds of prey. This is one of the
most difficult of all the families to study with precision, on account
of the retiring habits of the birds and their almost inaccessible breed-
ing places.

6. The next paper is on the relative intensity of the light and heat
of the sun upon the different latitudes of the earth, by L. W. Meech,
Esq. This memoir, which was submitted for examination to Prof.
Peirce and Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cambridge, presents a thorough mathe-
matical investigation of the only known astronomical element of me-
teorology. It gives a distinct, precise, and condensed view of this
element; enables the practical meteorologist to compare it with the
results of observation ; to eliminate its influence and obtain the resid-
ual phenomena in a separated form and better fitted for independent
investigation. It determines, from the apparent course of the sun,
the relative number of heating and illuminating rays which fall upon
any part of the earth’s surface. The rays of light and heat from the
sun to the earth, though imperceptible in their passage through free
space, and manifest only by their results at the surface of the globe,
evidently constitute a primary element of meteorology. The subse-
quent effects ,which are measured by the thermometer and designated
by the word temperature, are secondary, and modified by a variety of
proximate causes. In accordance with this distinction, the numerous
researches in this field may be divided into two classes, namely, those
which relate to the number of rays falling on a given place, and those
which relate to the temperature produced by these rays under different
conditions of surface, &c. To the former of these belongs the investi-
gation of Halley, given in the Philosophical Transactions for 1693.
By regarding heat as of the nature of force and resolving it intoa
horizontal and a vertical component, he drew the proper distinction
between the number of rays and their heating effect or ‘‘impulse,’’
which is expressed in the well known law, that the sun’s intensity at
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. yi

any time is proportional to the sine of the sun’s altitude above the
horizon. The subject was also investigated by Euler in 1739, in the
Petersburg Commentaries, with some improvements upon the method
of Halley, but owing to the introduction of false hypotheses, it was
not brought to a successful conclusion. More recently, Fourrier and
Poisson have discussed the problems of terrestrial heat at great length,
but in so general a way as to leave very much yet to be accomplished.

The present memoir, avoiding hypotheses, proceeds entirely in ac-
cordance with the principle that the intensity of the heat and light
radiated from the sun to the earth, is inversely proportional to the
square of the distance. By strict adherence to this primary law, the
principles of the astronomical branch of meteorology are deduced in a
connected series with geometrical precision, while at the same time an
account is taken of all the modifying circumstances of which the effects
are definitely known, such as the geographic latitude, the changes of
the sun’s distance from the earth, the changes of the sun’s altitude or
oblique direction of the solar beams, and changes in the length of the
day.

Among the more interesting results thus obtained are the simple
expressions for annual intensity and the duration of sunlight and twi-
light, and a more full delineation of the peculiar increase of summer
heat around the poles, first pointed out by Halley.

The secular changes of solar heat, or those which relate to long
periods, are also analyzed in accordance with the received variations
of astronomical elements, particularly those given by Leverrier, and
extended to very remote epochs. This part of the investigation is in-
timately connected with the geology of the globe, and the question as
to the amelioration of the climate of America since the period of our
colonial history. The paper is accompanied by a number of graphical
illustrations, which, besides exhibiting the general results, show the
reflex agency of the earth and its atmosphere in modifying the direct
heat of the sun, and the progressive change of climates, and the seasons
of the year. A small appropriation was made to defray the expense
of the arithmetical calculations necessary for deducing the numerical
values from the general formula.

7. In a previous report it was stated that a small appropriation had
been made to defray, in part, the expense of some special geological
explorations, under the direction of Professor HE. Hitchcock, of Amherst
College, Massachusetts. The papers containing the result of these in-
vestigations have been presented to the Institution for publication.
They all relate to surface geology, or the geological changes which
have taken place on the earth’s surface since the tertiary period.

The first paper treats of the unconsolidated terraces, beaches, sub-
marine ridges, &c., that have been formed along the shores of the
ocean, lakes, and rivers, since the last submergence of the continents.
The author has given the heights of a great number of these above
the ocean, and the rivers, and a map of those in the valley of the Con-
necticut river. The evidence they afford of a submergence of this
continent, at least, and a part of Europe, since the Drift Period, is re-
garded by the author as one of his most important conclusions. But
22 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

many others, however, are presented, which will tend to modify the
opinions entertained of the superficial deposits of the globe.

The second paper is on the erosions of the surface of the earth, espe-
cially by rivers. Of this phenomenon numerous examples are given,
and those described minutely which have fallen under the author’s
own observations. Some of the conclusions to which he has been con-
ducted are new and unexpected. He has, for instance, pointed out
several traces of old river-beds, now filled up and abandoned, through
which, in his opinion, the streams ran on a former continent.

The third paper would appear to establish the fact that glaciers
once existed on some of the mountains of New England, in distinction
from the drift agency, which he regards as chiefly the result of ice-
bergs and oceanic currents. This paper is accompanied by a map of
the ancient glaciers, so that geologists can examine for themselves the
data from which the deductions are made.

These investigations, says the author, ‘‘are an humble attempt to
penetrate a little distance into the obscurities of surface geology, and
to exhibit changes which seem to have been more overlooked than
any other which the earth has undergone.’’ Whatever may be the
opinions entertained of the conclusions of the author, the facts which
he has collected must ever be of importance.

On account of the colored maps which are necessary to illustrate
these papers, their expense will be considerable, and we shall be
obliged, perhaps, to defer their publication until towards the close of
the present year.

It is a subject of congratulation, and an evidence of the advance of
liberal sentiments in regard to the importance of abstract science in
our country, that within the last few years liberal donations have
been made for the publication of original research and the promotion
of original scientific investigations. In addition to the $100,000 be-
queathed some years since to the Harvard Observatory, the same
establishment has lately received from the Hon. Josiah Quincy the
sum of $10,000 for the publication of its observations ; and $10,000
has been bequeathed by Mr. Appleton for the publication of original
memoirs in the Transactions of the American Academy. A wealthy
lady of the city of Albany has just reared a monument to the memory
of her husband in the establishment of an observatory, which, we
trust, will be more enduring than any merely material edifice, how-
ever permanent and unalterable may be its character. Discoveries
will undoubtedly be made by means of this enlightened bequest, which
will indeltbly associate the name of Dudley with the future history of
astronomy. The love of posthumous fame is a natural and laudable de-
sire of the human mind. It is an instinct, as it were, of immortality,
which should be fostered and kept alive by example as one of the most
powerful inducements to enlightened benevolence. And what prouder
monument could be coveted than that which shall associate a name
with the discovery of truths, the knowledge of which will be as widely
extended and as continuous in duration as civilization itself? Smith-
son was ambitious of this distinction, and has presented with rare
sagacity, to all who have the means of gratifying the same feeling, a
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 23

noble example. In connexion with the same subject, I may refer to
the unexampled provision which has been made by subscription for
the publication of the extended researches of Prof. Agassiz. The re-
sults of these researches are to be comprised in ten quarto volumes, at
a subscription price of $120. The whole number of subscribers already
obtained is three thousand, which will produce $360,000. The Smith-
sonian Institution had commenced the preparation of the plates of
several memoirs by Prof. Agassiz, which will now be probably merged
in this work; and thus, though it may lose the honor of a more per-
manent association of the name of this celebrated individual with its
own publications, yet a portion of its funds will thus be set free for the
publication of the researches of less fortunate though meritorious
laborers in the field of knowledge. The Institution, however, will
have largely contributed from its museum to the materials which will
be required in the preparation of this great work, and will thus be
still connected with this important enterprise.

Exchanges.—The system of scientific and literary exchanges, of
which an account has been given in the previous reports, has become
more widely known and its advantages more generally appreciated.
Nearly all the exchanges of scientific works between societies and in-
dividuals in this country and abroad are now made through the agency
of this Institution. The whole number of articles transmitted during
the year 1855 was 8,585. The whole number of separate articles re-
ceived during the same time cannot be stated, as those addressed to
particular persons or societies were enclosed in packages which were
not opened. The articles received in behalf of the Institution amounted
to 4,500, and the number of packages for other parties to 1,445. The
latter, in almost every case, contained several different works, which
would swell the amount received to a larger number than that which
was sent. The associations in this country which have availed them-
selves of the facilities of the system comprise nearly all those that
publish Transactions. Among these are many of the agricultural
societies of the western States. Ina number of cases societies and
individuals have transmitted sets of their works, to be distributed by
the Institution to such associations as it might deem best entitled to
receive them.

The Smithsonian agency is not confined to the transmission of
works from the United States, but is extended to those from Canada,
South and Central America, and in its foreign relations embraces
every part of the civilized world. It is a ground of just congratula-
tion to the Regents, that the Institution, by means of this part of the
plan of its organization, is able to do so much towards the advance of
knowledge. It brings into friendly correspondence cultivators of origi-
nal research the most widely separated, and emphatically realizes the
idea of Smithson himself, that ‘‘the man of science is of no country 3”
that ‘‘the world is his country, and all mankind his countrymen.”’

The system of exchange has found favor with foreign governments,
and the Smithsonian packages are now admitted into all ports to which
they are sent, without detention, and free of duty. It has also been
highly favored by the liberal aid of companies and individuals in this
24° TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

country. The mail steamship line to California via Panama conveys
our packages free of cost to the Pacific coast. The line of steamers to
Bremen has also adopted a like liberal policy, and Messrs. Oelrichs &
Lurman, of Baltimore, have indicated their estimation of the value
of the system, by making no charge whatsoever for transmitting a large
number of boxes to Germany, and in receiving and forwarding others
from that country.

In connexion with the subject of exchanges, it becomes my duty to
announce the loss which the Institution has experienced in the death
of one of its warmest friends and most active agents, Dr. J. G. Fliigel,
of Leipsic. After a residence of several years in this country he re-
turned to Germany as United States consul, in which capacity he was
unremitting in his efforts to render service to American travellers,
and, by his untiring industry and zeal in behalf of the Institution,
contributed more than any other person to make it known through
northern and central Europe. His son, Dr. Felix Fliigel, has been
appointed his successor, and has evinced a desire and given evidence
of his ability to carry on the system with promptness and efficiency.
The agent of the Institution in London is Mr. Henry Stevens, and in
Paris Mr. Hector Bossange; and to these gentlemen the thanks of the
Regents are due for important services in the distribution and recep-
tion of packages without charge.

Correspondence.—The correspondence during the last year has been
more extended than that of any preceding period. The character of
the Institution becoming more widely known, the number of applica-
tions for information relative to particular branches of knowledge
has been increased. The correspondence relates to the exchanges,
the collections, the publications, the communication with authors and
the members of commissions to which memoirs are submitted, an-
swers to questions on different branches of knowledge, and reports as
to the character of specimens of natural history, geology, &c.; also
explanations of the character of the Institution, the distribution of its
publications, its system of meteorology, &c.

The whole number of pages copied into letter-books in 1855 is
about 4,000.

Besides this correspondence, there have been sent off from the In-
stitution upwards of 5,000 acknowledgments of books and other ar-
tacles presented to the Institution, and 6,000 circulars, asking for
information on special points, such as natural history, meteorology,
physical geography, statistics of libraries and colleges, &c.

Many of the communications are interesting additions to knowl-
edge, though they are scarcely of a character to warrant their publi-
cation in the quarto series of Contributions; and it is now proposed to
append some of these to the annual report to Congress to illustrate
the operations of the Institution, as well as to furnish information on
subjects of interest to the public. The meteorological system gives
rise to an extensive correspondence, and maintains a lively sympathy
between the institution and a large number of intelligent individuals.
During the past year, as usual, many crude speculations on scientific
and philosophical subjects have been presented for critical examina-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 25

tion. To these, in all cases, respectful answers have been returned,
and an endeavor has been made to impress upon the correspondent
the distinction between fanciful speculation and definite scientific in-
vestigation.

Education.—The plan of organization of this Institution does not
include the application of any of its funds directly to educational pur-
poses. Were the whole Smithsonian income applied to this one ob-
ject, but little, comparatively, of importance could be effected, and
that little would scarcely be in accordance with the liberal intention
of the testator, as expressed in his will, by the terms ‘the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.” Still, the theory and art
of education are susceptible of improvement, as well as of a wider ap-
plication ; and therefore, though the Institution may not attempt to do
anything itself in the way of elementary instruction, it may, in ac-
cordance with its plan of operations, assist in diffusing a knowledge
of the progress of the art of teaching, and of its application in this
country.

At a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of
Education, held in this building in December, 1854, a committee was
appointed, which called the attention of the Institution to the im-
portance of aiding in preparing and publishing a history of education
in the several States of the Union, the object of which would be to
diffuse a knowledge of what has been done in each section of the
country among all the others, and thus to render the separate expe-
rience of each beneficial to the whole. After consultation with the
members of the Executive Committee, then in the city, it was con-
cluded to devote $350 to this purpose. This sum has accordingly
been advanced to the Hon. Henry Barnard, of Connecticut, who has col-
lected and digested for publication the materials for a work of this kind.

The subject will be presented under the following heads:

1. Survey of the principal agencies which determine the education
of a people, with an explanation of the American nomenclature of
schools and education.

2. A brief sketch of the action of the general government in the
matter of education and schools.

3. Legislation of each State respecting education.

4. Condition of education in each State, according to the census re-
turns of 1850, and other reliable sources of information,

5. Educational funds—State, municipal, and institutional.

6. Educational buildings : remarks on their general condition, with |
illustrations of a few of the best specimens of each class of buildings.

7. Catalogue of documents relating to the educational systems and
institutions in each State.

8. Statistical tables, with a summary of educational agencies, such
as the press, ecclesiastical organizations, facilities of locomotion, &e.

9. A brief statement of the educational systems and statistics of
the most civilized countries of Europe.

The work will either be published as a separate report on educa-
_ tion, or may be given in a series of numbers of the American Journal
of Education, extra copies of which will be obtained for distribution.
26 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

It is believed that this exposition of the subject will supply a deficiency
which has long been felt, and be of much service in advancing the
important cause to which it relates.

Laboratory, fesearches, &c.—The law of Congress incorporating
the Institution directed the establishment of a laboratory, and, in ac-
cordance with this, a commodious room has been fitted up with the
necessary appliances for original research in chemistry and other
branches of physical science.

During the past year a number of different researches have been
prosecuted in this apartment.

1. A continuation of those mentioned in the last report on building
material.

2. A series relating to combustion, and some points on meteorology.

3. On the flow of air through tubes of various forms.

4. On the application of some newly-discovered substances to prac-
tical purposes in the arts.

5. The examination of the minerals of the Pacific railroad and
other expeditions.

Though the funds of the Institution will not permit the constant
employment of a practical chemist, yet we are enabled to do some-
thing towards the support of a person in this line, by referring to him
the articles of a commercial value which are submitted to us for ex-
amination, and for which the cost of analysis is paid by the parties
seeking the information.

A young chemist, who has spent three years in Germany, has now
the use of the laborator y, and is prepared to make any analyses which
may be required. For the facilities afforded him he is to keep the
apparatus in working order, and to make such examinations of speci-
mens as may not require much labor.

In one of the previous reports it was mentioned that a set of instru-
ments for observing the several elements of terrestrial magnetism
was lent to Dr. Kane for use in his Arctic explorations, and I am hap-
py to inform the Board that these instruments have done good service
to the cause of science in the hands of this intrepid explorer and his
assistants, and that they have been returned in good condition. They
will be again intrusted to other persons for observations in different
parts of this country.

Meteorology.—Since the last meeting of the Board an arrangement
has been made with the Commissioner of Patents by which the sys-
tem of meteorology, established under the direction of the Institution,
will be extended, and the results published more fully than the Smith-
gonian income would allow. A new set of blank forms has been pre-
pared by myself, and widely distributed under the frank of the Patent
Office. An appropriation has also been made for the purchase of a
large number of rain-gages, to be distributed to different parts of
the country, for the purpose of ascertaining more definitely with com-
pared instruments the actual amount of rain which falls in the dif-
ferent sections of our extended domain. A series of experiments has
been made with regard to the different form of gages, and a very
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. yy

simple one, which can be manufactured at a small expense, is easy of
application, and can be readily transported by mail, has been adopted,
Mr. Jas. Green, of New York, has continued to manufxcture standard
instruments in accordance with the plan adopted by the Institution,
and to supply these at a reasonable price to observers. He preserves
an accurate record of the comparison of each instrument with the
standards furnished by the Institution, and in this way good service
is rendered to the advance of this branch of knowledge by the general
introduction of compared and reliable instruments. The system is
constantly improving in precision and extent.

Complaints have been made that but few of the materials collected
by the Institution have yet been published. The answer to these,
however, is readily given in the fact that so much of the income up to
this time has been devoted to the building, and so many demands
have been made upon the Smithsonian funds for objects requiring
more immediate attention, that little could be done in this line; and,
besides, it is more important that the information should be reliable
than that it should be quickly published. The value of observations
of this character increases in a higher ratio than the time of their con-
tinuance, and, therefore, what may be lost by delay is more than
compensated by the precision and value of the results.

The reduction of the meteorological observations has been continued
by Professor Coffin during the past year. He has completed the dis-
cussion of all the records for 1854, and those of 1855. as far as they
have been sent in. The publication of these, however, in full, will
require a volume which, we trust, will be printed at the expense of
the general government, as an appendix to the Agricultural Report
of the Patent Office.

Important additions have lately been made to the physical geogra-
phy of the western portions of the United States, under the direction
of the Secretary of War, by the officers of the army engaged in the
explorations of the several routes for a railway to the Pacific. A
series of exact barometrical sections has been measured from the Mis-
sissippi river to the Pacific ocean. The elevations of the extended
plain which constitutes the base of the Rocky mountains and of the
parallel ridges have been determined. Temporary meteorological ob-
servations have also been made, which afford approximate data rela-
tive to the climate of this region.

The elevation and direction of the ridges which separate the valley
of the Mississippi from the Pacific ocean have a controlling influence
on the climate, particularly on the precipitation of the North Ameri-
can continent, and especially distinguish the storms of the Pacific
coast from those of the Atlantic States.

The additions which have been made to the physical geography
and natural history of this continent under the enlightened policy of
the Secretary of War, will be received with great interest by the scien-
tific men of Kurope.

In studying the general physical phenomena of the globe, the west-
ern half of the North American continent, in comparison with other
_ parts of the world, has been almost a blank. It is hoped, however,
that the spirit of inquiry that has been awakened and the enterprises
28 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

which have been commenced, and thus far successfully prosecuted in
this line, will be continued, and will supply the desiderata which
have so long been felt. If all the military posts, or a selection which
might be made from them, were furnished with a full set of instru-
ments, and the observations made with due precision, results of the
highest interest to the man of science, as well as to the agriculturist,
the physician, and the engineer, would be obtained.

As first approximations the simple observations at the different
posts, which have thus far been published, are acceptable additions
to knowledge; but whatever is worth doing at the expense and under
the direction of the general government, ought to be as well done as
the state of science and the circumstances under which the work is
commenced will admit.

A series of continued observations at a few.posts, made at each
hour during the twenty-four, similar to those carried on under the
direction of Major Mordecai, at the Frankford arsenal, would afford
materials of much interest for determining in the interior of the con-
tinent the hours of the day most suitable to be chosen for ascertaining
the mean temperature, and for reducing the observations made at
different times to the same hours, as well as for settling the time of
occurrence of the daily periodical changes of the atmosphere.

Besides the collection of meteorological materials relative to the
climate of the United States, the Institution has in its possession an
extensive series of observations made in Texas and Mexico by Dr. Ber-
landier. These were placed at our disposal by Lieutenant Couch, who
was favorably mentioned in the last report as having made a valuable
exploration a few years ago in the southern part of our continent,
Portions of this material will be published, from time to time, as an
appendix to the Smithsonian Contributions.

Iam happy to state to the Board, that the Provincial Parliament
has made provision for the establishment of a system of meteorology
in Canada, which will co-operate with that of the Institution. The
act is in the following words:

“¢ Whereas it is desirable at all seminaries and places of education
to direct attention to natural phenomena, and to encourage habits of
observation; and whereas a better knowledge of the climate and
meteorology of Canada will be serviceable to agricultural and other
pursuits, and be of value to scientific inquirers; be it therefore en-
acted, that it shall be part of the duty of every county grammar
school to make the requisite observations for keeping, and to keep a
meteorological journal, embracing such observations, and kept accord-
ing to such form as shall from time to time be directed by the council
of public instruction ; and all such journals, or abstracts of them,
shall be presented annually by the chief superintendent of schools to
the governor-general, with his annual report.

‘¢ very county grammar school shall be provided, at the expense
of the county, with the following instruments: One barometer, one
thermometer for the temperature of the air, one thermometer for
evaporation, one rain-gage, one wind-vane.’’

Lhe Library.—More has been accomplished in the library during
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 29

‘the past year than at any previous period. The books have been pro-
visionally arranged according to subjects, and considerable progress
made in a full catalogue as well as in an index to the chronological
record of the daily reception of books as they are placed in the library.
The first part of a descriptive catalogue of the works received in ex-
change has been published, and the second part is now in process of
preparation. An extra number of the first part has been struck off,
and copies have been sent in the form of an appendix to the seventh
volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, to all foreign
societies, in order that our deficiencies may be made known, and an
appeal made to our contributors for their supply. This list will also
be of much importance to persons engaged in original research in this
country, since it will give them, in a separate catalogue, a knowledge
of the rich collection of Transactions and proceedings of literary and
scientific societies in the possession of the Institution.

The value of a library is not to be estimated by the number of
volumes it contains, but by the character of the books of which it is
composed. It is the present intention of the Regents to render the
Smithsonian library the most extensive and perfect collection of T'rans-
actions and scientific works in this country, and this it will be enabled
to accomplish by mearts of its exchanges, which will furnish it with
all the current journals and publications of societies, while the sep-
arate series may be completed in due time as opportunity and means
may offer. The Institution has already more complete sets of Trans-
actions of learned societies than are to be found in the oldest libraries
in the United States, and on this point we speak on the authority of
one of the first bibliographers of the day. This plan is in strict ac-
cordance with the general policy of the Institution, viz: to spend its
funds on objects which cannot as well be accomplished by other means,
and has commended itself to those who are well able to appreciate
its merits, and who are acquainted with the multiplicity of demands
made upon the limited income of the Smithsonian fund. Ina letter,
after a visit to Washington, the bibliographer before alluded to remarks:
‘¢My previous opinions as to the judiciousness of the system pur-
sued by the Smithsonian Institution, in every respect, were more than
confirmed. I hope you will not change in the least. Your exchanges
will give you the most important of all the modern scientific publica-
tions, and the older ones can be added as you find them necessary.
The library, I think, should be confined strictly to works of science.”’

A thorough examination has been made of the series of journals and
transactions of societies; deficiencies have been noted, and, as far as
possible, supplied, and the whole placed in the hands of the binder.
This was considered indispensable for their preservation and use.
The separate parts are in danger of being lost or injured so long as
they remain in a pamphlet form. During the past year $2,043 have
been expended in the binding of 3,668 volumes. The entire west wing
of the building has been appropriated to the library, and three sides
of this large apartment are now occupied with books. By placing
two rows of cases, each of a double story, along the middle of the
room, the amount of shelf room may be tripled, and space may thus be
obtained sufficient for the wants of the library for a number of years.
30 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

It has before been observed that the Smithsonian library is intended
to be a special one, as complete as possible in Transactions and all
works of science. There is now in the city of Washington the large
miscellaneous library of Congress and a city library of ten thousand
volumes. Besides these, are the libraries of Georgetown College and
of the several executive departments, and the invaluable collection of
works pertaining to America, belonging to Peter Force, esq. The
latter, with commendable liberality on the part of its enlightened
owner, is open to the use of all who are engaged in research with
reference to the speciality to which it pertains; and we trust that
means will be provided by the general government to secure this col-
lection in case of its ever being exposed to the danger of dispersion.
Washington is, therefore, better supplied with miscellaneous books
than any other city of the same size in the Union, and it can
scarcely be considered necessary, or even just, to expend any portion
of the income of the small fund intended for the good of mankind
generally, in duplicating collections already to be tound in the same
city. Indeed it would be well if in every city of this country arrange-
ments could be made by which each library should aim to be as com-
plete as possible in certain branches ; and we are pleased to learn that
this policy has been adopted in the formation of the Astor library,
the superintendent of which, in purchasing the rare books which it
contains, having given a preference to such as were not to be found in
any other collection in the city of New York.

‘L'o assist in rendering available the several libraries of the country,
it has from the first been an object of the Institution to collect a com-
plete set of their catalogues, and it is believed it now possesses a more
extensive collection of this kind than is to be found elsewhere. Any
person desiring to ascertain where a book may be obtained, can in
most cases acquire the knowledge desired by addressing the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution. At the last session of Congress an
act was passed authorizing the transmission free of postage of articles
entered for copyright. The effect of this:law has been to diminish
considerably the expense to which the Institution had been subjected
in receiving books of this kind. Still there is a class of books on
which postage is charged, namely, all those we receive in exchange
through the mail for our own publications, including the laws and
legislative documents of the several States. On the whole, the law
relative to the deposite of works intended for copyright has thus far
been of no real benefit; for the expense of clerk-hire, certificates, and
shelf-room, would far exceed the value of all the books received in
this way. While-school books, works intended for children, and the
lighter and more worthless publications of the day, are forwarded to
us, the larger and more valuable productions of the American press
are often withheld. The principal office of these books has been to
swell the number of volumes contained in the library, and in some
respects to satisfy those who desire a large number of books rather
than a choice collection. The process of cataloguing the library of
Congress, in accordance with the plan proposed by this Institution,
has been carried on under the direction of Professor Jillson, of Co-
lumbian College. The number of titles prepared is 15,885, with
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 81

7,949 cross-references—the whole number of volumes catalogued being
32,986. This number, according to Professor Jillson’s report, em-
braces all the volumes which were in the library at the time the cata-
logue was commenced, with the exception of the law department, the
bound volumes of tracts, and some incomplete works. It also in-
cludes the additions made in the general library to chapters Ist, 2d,
3d, and 4th, previous to April, 1855, the additions to the different
chapters previous to the time they were catalogued, and at least one-
half of the additions made during the past year. The whole amount
expended on the preparation of the 15,885 titles is $4,971 07, and
that of stereotyping about 4,000 titles, $2,974 91. This is exclusive
of the expense incurred by the Institution in making the experiments
on the stereotyping process, and the cost of the press, type, general
apparatus, fixtures, &c.

The appropriation made by Congress has been exhausted, excepting
$54 02.

Musewm.—The specimens of natural history which have been re-
ceived during the past year have been very numerous and of great
value, the number of distinct contributors amounting to 130. As in
former years, the most valuable additions have been received from the
officers engaged in the various scientific expeditions of the govern-
ment. An illustration of the extent of our receipts during the year is
exhibited in the fact, that the specimens of mammals alone amount
to 2,500.

The following is a general summary of the present state of the col-
lections: The number of jars containing specimens of mammals in
alcohol is 350: of birds, 39; of reptiles, 3,344; of fishes, 4,000; of
invertebrates, 1,158; of miscellaneous, 28; making a total of 9,171
jars. Most of these contain a number of specimens; and there are
about 30 barrels and cans filled with other specimens, which have not
yet been assorted. There are also 1,200 prepared mammals, 4,425
birds, and 2,050 skulls and skeletons generally.

It is no part of the plan of the Institution to form a museum merely
to attract the attention and gratify the curiosity of the casual visitor
to the Smithsonian building, but it is the design to form complete col-
lections in certain branches, which may serve to facilitate the study
and increase the knowledge of natural history and geology.

Though the statement may excite surprise, yet I may assert, on the
authority of Professor Baird, corroborated by the opinion of others well
qualified to judge, that no collection of animals in the United States,
nor, indeed, in the world, can even now pretend to rival the richness
of the museum of the Smithsonian Institution in specimens which tend
to illustrate the natural history of the continent of North America.

Not only have representatives of animals of every part of the country
been obtained, to illustrate the entire American fauna, but also speci-
mens of the same animal, from different parts, have been procured, in
order to determine the geographical distribution of a species.

Of the vertebrate animals, there is scarcely a known species not al-
‘ready in the collection, while of those which have not yet been criti-
32 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

cally studied, there are probably a large number which have never
been scientifically described.

These specimens have not, up to this time, been exhibited to the
public, for want of suitable cases, in the large room, to properly dis-
play them; but they are accessible to those who are pursuing original
investigations, during nearly the whole year. They have almost con-
stantly been used for this purpose, by a succession of individuals en-
gaged in the preparation of reports for the government, or the study
of particular branches of natural history.

It is a part of the plan to give encouragement and assistance to
original investigations, and persons who visit Washington for the
purpose of studying the collection are furnished with all the facilities
which the Institution can afford, and these, in the specimens, instru-
ments, and the ample library of reference, are already such with re-
gard to certain branches as cannot elsewhere be obtained.

The use of the specimens is not confined to persons who visit
Washington, but, in accordance with the general policy of the In-
stitution, they are sent to individuals who are engaged in the study
of particular classes of animals, and with this view a large number
of duplicates are in almost every case obtained. A considerable por-
tion of the materials of the great work now in preparation by Agassiz
will be derived from this Institution, and it is considered an import-
ant part of the duty of the directors to induce persons to undertake
the study of special branches of natural history, and to afford them
the means of its successful prosecution. For example, one of the
researches of Dr. Leidy has been thus undertaken; and Dr. Jeffries
Wyman, of Cambridge, is now engaged in the study of the peculiar
character of the batrachian animals, and of the anatomical structure
of the undeveloped organ of sight of the blind fish of the mammoth
cave, and he has been supplied, for this purpose, with a large number
of specimens of each of these animals by the Institution. In most
cases of this kind the results of these investigations are published in
the Smithsonian Contributions ; though this is not strictly required,
it being considered sufficient that full credit be given for all that has
been contributed at the expense of the Institution.

The labor necessarily expended in unpacking, assorting, and label-
ling the specimens has been very great; and when to this is added
the constant care required for the preservation of so many objects of
a perishable character, the cost of the maintenance of an extended
museum must be evident.

A large number of the specimens now in the museum have been
procured by the several expeditions under the general government ;
and as in but few cases an appropriation has been made for their
preservation, the expense of this has fallen on the Institution.

For a detailed account of the present condition of the collections,
and the operations in the museum during the past year, I must refer
to Professor Baird’s report, herewith transmitted. Besides the re-
searches mentioned, a number of explorations in natural history
have been undertaken. The most important of these is that of Cali-
fornia, by Mr. E. Samuels, under the patronage of this Institution and
the Boston Society of Natural History. He expects to remain ‘on the
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Sa

Pacific coast about a year, and will doubtless secure numerous speci-
mens in all departments of natural history, and will devote himself
to completing such collections as are imperfectly represented by the
results of the various Pacific railway surveys. Mr. Samuels is also
charged, on the part of the Commissioner of Patents, with collecting
specimens of seeds of the trees, shrubs, and grains of the country. A
division of the expense, and the liberality of the Panama line, have
enabled this exploration to be instituted at a small cost to each of
the parties interested.

A small appropriation has also been made to assist in forming a
complete collection of specimens to illustrate the zoology of Ilinois,
under the direction of Mr. R. Kennicott.

Another exploration was made in the northern part of the State of
New York, during the past season, by Professor Baird.

The collections which have resulted from these expeditions, to-
gether with those from the Mexican boundary commission, and the
several railway surveys, will furnish important additions to the
natural history of the North American continent.

Lectures.—The intcrest in the lectures still continues, and the
large lecture-room during the past winter has frequently been filled
to overflowing by an attentive and intelligent audience. The plan
has been adopted to give courses of lectures on special subjects, inter-
spersed occasionally with single lectures, principally of a literary
character. Courses of lectures on a single subject, it is believed,
serve to convey more valuable and permanent instruction than a
number of separate lectures on different subjects. To impress a gene-
ral truth upon the mind, requires frequent repetition and a variety.
of illustrations, and hence but little impression can be made with re-
ference to any subject involving scientific principles by a single dis-
course ; and the lecturer who appears but once, too often attempts to
interest his audience by the enunciation of vague generalizations or
by mere rhetorical display.

This is, however, not always the case, since, for example, a single
lecture may be given on the history of a discovery, or a brief analysis
of the life of a distinguished individual.

Asa general rule, therefore, we consider a number of single lectures
by different persons, as of less value than a series on one subject by the
same person. The latter requires a more profound acquaintance with
the subject, and a greater amount of previous preparation. There
are many persons who might be able to give a single popular lecture
on some branch of knowledge, who would fail in attempting an ex-
tended course.

The following is a list of the lectures which were delivered during
the winters of 1854-55 and 1855-’56.*

1854—’55.—One lecture by Prof. Etras Loomis, of New York: ‘‘ The
zone of small planets between Mars and Jupiter.’’

- = Tn order to complete the list for the winter of 1855-56, the lectures delivered after
the date of the report have been added.

3
~

34 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

One lecture by Dr. D. Brarnarp, of Chicago, Illinois, ‘‘ On the
nature and cure of the bite of serpents, and the wounds of poisoned
arrows.”’

Four lectures by Hon. Gro. P. Marsn:

Ist. ‘‘Constantinople and the Bosphorus.’’

2d. Do. do. do.

Ba.) “The Camels”?

Ath. ‘‘ Environs of Constantinople.—Political and military import-
ance of the position of that Capital—The reform system in Tur-
key.’’

One lecture by Dr. Rost. Barry: ‘History of the war between
Russia and Turkey, with notices of those countries.”’

Nine lectures by Prof. Asa Gray, of Cambridge, Massachusetts,
“On Vegetation :’’

1. ‘‘Development from the seed and from buds, root, stem, and
leaves.

2. Aerial, ephiphytic, and parasitic vegetation.

3. Morphology of branches.—Subterranean vegetation.—Adapta-
tion of bulb-bearing plants and the like to regions subject to a sea-
son of drought ; of forests and the like to regions of equable distribu-
tion of rain.—Anatomy and action of leaves. :

4, How plants grow.—Anatomical structure.—Development from
the cell.—Gradation from plants of one cell to the completed type of
vegetation.

5. Wood.—The tree.—Life and duration of plants. —The individual
in its various senses.—The tree a community as well as an indi-
vidual,

6. How plants multiply in numbers.—The flower.

7. Fruit and seed.—Fertilization and the formation of the em-
bryo.—Reproduction in flowerless plants.

8. Movements and directions assumed by plants generally.—The
relations of vegetation to the sun.

9. Relations of vegetation to the sun continued.—The plant con-
sidered as the producer of food and a medium of force.”’

One lecture by Rev. J. 8. Fiercuer, on ‘ Brazil.”’

Two lectures by Hon. Henry Barnarp, of Connecticut: ‘ Recent
educational movements in Great Britain.”’

Two lectures by Rev. H. A. WaASHBURNE:

1. ‘‘Confucius, or the Chinese mind.’’

2. ‘‘The Chinese war.’’

Two lectures by Prof. Josspu Lovertne, of Cambridge, Massachu-
setts: “‘The progress of electricity.”

One lecture by Orrver P. Batpwiy, esq., of Richmond, Va.: ‘‘Na-
tional characteristics.”’

One lecture by Dr. W. F. Caannine, of Boston: ‘‘The American
fire alarm telegraph.”’

Three lectures by Rozert RusseLu, esq., of Scotland, on ‘‘Meteor-
ology.”’

1855—’56.—Three lectures by Prof. H. 8S. Syurz, of Amherst Col-
lege, Massachusetts, on ‘‘Architecture;’’ and one lecture on *¢ Plane-
tary motion and disturbances.”’

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 35

Six lectures by Prof. O. M. Mrrcenett, of Cincinnati, Ohio, on ‘‘ As-
tronomy.”’

One lecture by Jonn C. Deverrux, esq., of New York, on ‘‘The
popular influences of architecture.”

Six lectures by Prof. Gzoraz J. Cuace, of Brown University, Provi-
dence, Rhode Island, on ‘‘ Chemistry applied to the arts.”’

One lecture by Prof. C. C. Frnron, of Cambridge, Massachusetts,
on ‘* Greece.”’

Five lectures by Rev. Joun Lorn, of Connecticut, on the ‘‘ Gran-
deur and fall of the French Bourbon monarchy.”’

From the foregoing statements, I trust it will be evident that the
Institution is realizing the reasonable expectations of its friends ; that
its funds are in a prosperous condition, and that, so long as the
present policy is maintained, it will continue to promote the advance
of knowledge, and thus carry out the cherished object of its founder.

Respectfully submitted :

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.

JANUARY, 1856.
36 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Drcemper 31, 1855.

Str: I beg leave to present herewith a report for the year 1855, of
operations in such departments of the Smithsonian Institution as have
been intrusted by you to my care.

Respectfully submitted:

SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
JosepH Henry, LL. D.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

I.—PUBLICATIONS,

The seventh volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge
was issued in July last and promptly digtributed.

The octavo publications during the year have been confined to the
ninth annual report, of 464 pages.

The eighth volume of Smithsonian Contributions is in an active state
of forwardness, and will’soon be ready for delivery.

Il.— EXCHANGES.
a—Foreign Exchanges.

Owing to unavoidable delay in printing the seventh volume, the
packages for foreign distribution could not be made up until the mid-
dle of July. By the end of the month, however, they were all sent
off, and by October had safely reached the hands of the agents of
distrinution. As in past years, most of the active scientific and lit-
erary institutions of America embraced the opportunity to transmit
their exchanges.

The returns. during 1855 have been very valuable, considerably ex-
ceeding those of any previous year, excepting so far as relates to maps
and charts. Even here, however, the decrease is more apparent than
real, as several extensive series have been received, bound into vol-
umes instead of being in loose sheets, as is frequently the case. The
particulars of these returns are presented in the following tables:

A.
Table exhibiting the number of pieces received in exchange during 1855.
Wolumes=—f0ll0...0.600ssieencnammeeenees oieseaie' 87
be GUAT CO wwe cues. acabeeeemeresemestess 233
SC OCIAVO) Jas ets a%je8 siete Noon Baas oy Aalaa
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, of

Parts of volumes and pamphlets—folio... 41
os 4 quarto. 239

as oe a ie octavo. 1,427

ay,
Ma pe Std CM ETA VINES. ccws scenes v0.0 eseecnnteneaatenaes 26
OTR Biehl ke ae 2,770

~ By comparison with the table of last year, it will be seen that there
has been an increase in the receipts, by 111 volumes and 239 parts of
volumes and pamphlets.

The number of donations for 1855 amounts to 1,779 ; that for 1854
to 806.

The list of receipts for other parties during the year exhibits a
large increase over that of 1854, both in the number of packages and
of addresses. Thus—

In 1855 were received 1,445 packages to 44 addresses.
In 1854 were received 987 packages to 36 addresses.

Difference 458

I|_ oo |

The Institution is indebted for aid in expediting its parcels to Mr.
Zimmerman, consul-general of the Netherlands; to Dr. Henry Wheat-
land, of Salem ; to Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss, U. 8S. Navy; to the
American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and to the
Board of Missions of the Presbyterian church.

The following tables exhibit the chief statistics respecting the for-
eign exchanges “for the year. To table B should be added two boxes
of books sent in December to Chile, and one to London, consisting
chiefly of copies of the report on Chile, made by Lieutenant Gilliss.
TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

B.

Fable showing the amount of printed matter sent abroad by the Smith-
sonian Institution in July, 1855.

No. of principal packages
to principal addresses.

No. of sub-packages en-
closed to sub-addresses.

Total of distinct packages
to different addresses.

= J
28 i
EGR one
& jasio
Aloo
mai.
S| cles
Se ce lhe Oley @
ma is) 5 &
Ba/Sgl5™
et aires 5S
ts | lo
<q |< jk
Distributed by Dr. Felix Fliigel,
Leipsic.
a
Gila goosuoudc00a leleiejelnlelarate 9 9
INOTWAVociec ost sie sales ssieie's Brean oules
IDEAS Sono geonsagabooe Sielalele 7 | 12
RUSSIA lseaeter cen selene napanee 20} Io
Holland...... Westlaw estaleies els ce |e Lea ra
CRE LUIIAN Ye rivicleleleleiereitie’e's\clelsisivelolese 123 |152
PIWVALZE EI ATO erercieinie ei aielslelalesiaistetele 17 | 19
Belgium....... cencee Sislsieicisjeseisie 9| 6
Motalissesitess seceeeee eee (203 [238 [441

Paris.

Distributed by the Royal Society
and Henry Stevens, London.

Spain....... Soegdo.n000 Cudecads
Portugal...... je iaiaieforetelainareiste coon
Great Britain and Ireland.......

BRIO AN otetelsiolelsisielateleleeleteierels

Distributed in other parts of the
world ....... cece cece cere cees

Granaltotalyeceiscietsleiieleres

60 | 35 |..
a7 ess a6
87 | 58 |145
Blei3

95 |148 |...
100 |151 |251

28 | 10 | 38

.|418 |457 |875

40

825

No. of pieces enclosed in
principal packages.*

28

73

10

1,477

50

2, 302

196

4, 739

No. of pieces enclosed in
sub-packages.*

several works enclosed

Estimated addition, where
in one piece.

10

2, 430

1,416

sc
[=|
o
n
= th
Baie
gg|s
= |
Chee °
° ~
o
ot 2
8 5
° 5
A Zz
4,714 | 18
1,435 6
2,240 5
206 4
8,585 | 33

rey
o
&
Oo
2
—
=!
oO
i=]
£
Blois
3 |
&| 3
S| =
188 | 5,361

20 650

358 |10, 481

* Addressed packages from other institutions count only as one each, although containing sometimes as

many as a dozen pieces.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 39

C.

Table of packages received in 1855 from American institutions for dis-
tribution abroad.

Boston—

American Academy of Arts and Sciences..........seeseeeeeeeee 146

Natural History Society........cscscseecnsesececececeeeeseseesoeces 49
Cambridge—

Observatory Harvard College........cscsseeseeeeeesseeeeeeeeneeees 124

Botamic Garden... .cncsn soctsccieceenes gecsarseceseccecs ces onc vemunanm 16
New Haven—

American Journal Science.........scccscesessecscccccesccscerserens 40
Albany—

New York State, IiDEary..........sas0.>0nsslecedes sedeeveces ones an 5

New York State Agricultural Society..........s.sseeeeeeeeeeese E
New York—

American Geographical and Statistical Society............++ 150
Philadelphia—

American Philosophical Society............:.sseeeeseeeeerenenenes 28

Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences............-.++++++ 91

Philadelphia College of Pharmacy........s.sssesseeeeeeeeererees if

Pennsylvania Institute for Blind ..........ce cee eenee sense eee ee nes 48

Historical Society of Pennsylvania...........:seeseeseseeeenenees 1
Washington

Secretary of War.........csscocscscsnsescecssecccsencarerersseaeueess 6

United States Patent Office.....-2. G2 020i. ste nean cane 200

Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography.............seeeseeeeeee 78

United States Naval Astronomical Hxpedition............+++ 20
Columbus, Ohio—

Ohio State Board of Agriculture...........secesseeeeneeeeeeeeees 126

Detroit—

Michigan State Agricultural Society........::s.cesseeeseeeeneees AT
New Orleans—

New Orleans Academy of Natural Sciences.............se020+ 200
San Francisco—

California Academy of Natural Sciences............sseseeeeees 46

Geological Survey of California .........c.eeeeeseeeeeeee ee een ees 128
Santiago, Chile—

University of Chile..:.....0siiic. ficasie.s..s stad Seeleneeatasamanen= 147

Observatory of Santiago.............cccececseeeeeneeeeecasenenenees 34
WALIOUS INGUVICUAIS. «02. iccen ce eneeSarilnatece sols dsesadaieclaisaidasdsseanees 980

40 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

iD.

Table of packages received from Europe for distribution to various

Canada—

Various institutions............ Peet ae Raratiretchinns Macca

Boston—

American Academy of Arts and Saedeer
Mature. Eustionpp mete... ca saiteacrsiesbveiee:eedessea. cs aes

Bowditch Library,
Cambridge—

Obserpaioniee sceast cap statsew sce teas oh vn atien eth cs cat oe eRe
Bota Meg nclenns esc ances eosanteotehe eee SAAN: 7. ILO
Bes), 10 bel Oban) 5 ae Re PRR Pe DS a

societies in America.

AStronomical Paurie ls... sis: «chess usc WANE ee ee :

Worcester—

American Antiquarian Society

New Haven—

American Journal

Providence—
Brown University

Albany—

PAtlpamiy LN SETCULE: «2 « «Sian vonudes <eecahckdcn ev abelnes ahsae emcee
New York State Library
SOLELY. oninginnie Ute ettale CRER, Ae eee SEGUE ;

State Agricultural
New York

Lyceum of Natural History
American Ethnological Society
Geographical and Statistical Society
PME TCA MMBC ULES: sha tek coek acaneht arse vee- aera tema ee pe deaeee =

Astor Library.....
West Point—

United States Military Academy

Philadedphia—

American Philosophical Society....... 2
Academy of Natural Sciences

off Sctencortan evs leer eS ee eee
American, OrientalaSecietyacistn tn. ti. Rimereteaden deel shasta :

Ce i a a

Prankdin Unstutmteeeceeen tk aac de ees rok en en Mam ea ade iee

Geological Survey
Washington

President of the United States
United States Patent Office

ited States and

Ol MenNSylVAMIArccsentenee eel. Lr aoe

Mexican Boundary Survey........ccsseer :

United States Coast Survey.............s00c00 Castel sxe cco eae
Nesronal Observatory... 2. sseeraeaeettnciae seelss cons cee Reeeeteee

pile a Anstitute

eo ee

PO Pee eee eee ee eee eewianeeseseeeeeeses

Se eee eer ee reere reser eeeeereeeseseseeesesese

Ci ek ee a ee i i |
CO ee ee eC Oe i ee

eo ey

i ee i i a ead

od

Come eee sere sees eeeseesrerrneserereeresese

eee eee errr eerereerseseeerene  seeesesen

SCP eee oeeeaeereeeesercerererceeresnesesescee

Rane ress, Liltary...azcecaneeey eter ouenes ee tuk kwh sexe ccehe ocean
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Al

Georgetown, D. C.—

Georgetown College........scceseeseensecsecnscenseessecsaneasesens 29
Cincinnati—

ODserVAtOry......osecescecessecsseaecscssecscescesoa(seneeaeemecmense 12
Columbus—

Ohio State Agricultural Society......c:.s seeeeeseeneeeeeeteeernee 2
Detroit—

Michigan State Agricultural Society............:ssseesseereneees 8
Ann Arbor—

ODBELVALOLY voce’ s vanlesinseuaseiisse oleate caceadeeeeodeschesscceecsumens 4
Madison—

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society.......:.-scecreeeee o 26
Colleges in different places........c.csseseeeeeseenersenseneeesareneeees «) eee
Various State Libraries... 0.6520. cesesesieoses sek epee wah RRAS wists 28
Miscellaneous societies and individuals..........s.sceeeseeeeesere ei.  pous

BRPVH EAL sateen ce aac s ae aieabloas del gaclactamae ea cles tetera Siapaebinwes aslo 1,445

By reference to the preceding tables, it will be seen that the Insti-
tution acts as agent not only for parties in the United States and
Canada, but also for the University and Observatory of Chile.

The facilities for conducting the Smithsonian exchanges have been
greatly increased by the liberal act of the mail line of steamships to
California via Panama, in carrying, without charge, its parcels for
the west coast of America. The line of steamers to Bremen has also
granted the same privilege. Messrs. Oelrichs & Lurman, of Balti-
more, as in previous years, have marked their sense of the value of
the operations of the Institution by making no charge whatever for
their agency in shipping from Baltimore the large number of boxes
sent to Bremen, and in receiving and forwarding others from that
port.

b—Domestic Exchanges.

The copies of volume VII of Smithsonian Contributions were dis-
tributed promptly through the following agents, whose services, as
heretofore, have been given without charge: Dr. T. M. Brewer, Bos-
ton; George T. Putnam & Co., New York; J. B. Lippincott & Co.,
Philadelphia; John Russell, Charleston ; B. M. Norman, New Or-
leans; Dr. George Engelmann, St. Louis; H. W. Derby, Cincinnati ;
and Jewett, Proctor & Worthington, Cleveland.

Nearly all the parties to whom copies were addressed have already
returned acknowledgments to the Institution.

A few copies of volumes IV and V of the History, Condition, and
Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States have been dis-
tributed in behalf of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.

IIJ.—MUSEUM.

A—ZIncrease of the Museum.

_ The year 1854 was a marked one in the history of the Institution,
on account of the magnitude and intrinsic value of the collections re-
42 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ceived. ‘These were mainly from the survey for marking the boundary
between the United States and Mexico, and those for a practical rail~
road route to the Pacific, from the North Pacific exploring expedition
under Captain Ringgold, and the expedition to the Parana and its
tributaries under Captain Page, from the exploration-of the coast of
California by Lieutenant Trowbridge, and many others, enumerated
in detail in the last report. It was supposed that, with the return of
most of these expeditions, and the diminution in extent of the field
of labor, the receipts during the year 1855 would show a considerable
falling off. This, however, has by no means been the case; on the
contrary, the additions have not only been greater in number, but of
even greater interest, many new regions having been almost ex-
hausted of their scientific novelties. The following table will illus-
trate the difference in the receipts for the two years:

1854. 1855.

Number of kegs and barrels received..............sssescess 35 26
UBT Ole? laa 60 0am li ea AW MISES SAS BE rh Nt 26 18

DD eefanBES testing. acetic t.cass auceaprasctc: ocean Cee eg

LO teWOXESN ATG, LLU AS eRe Reet TnL Poem 94 148

es ae Mobs Pid, ie MOE 2 Aa CNY TON ral = 7

Dowie packs eesrs Gl”, Mw TEN DANE Ue Oe 32 79

Dons, Heabimetst AR aee Lee ee. eee ae ee Oe — 2
Hotal’of pieces*...wiess tess Fou AGE ea abt erred 362 467
Distinehidowmations ses her a a. eens aeocr ee . 130 §=229

The entire number of different contributors during 1855 has ex-
ceeded 130. There has been a considerable decrease in 1855 in the
number of fishes and reptiles received, owing to the fact that full
collections have been made in previous years at many points, which
thus became exhausted as far as contributions of desirable specimens
were concerned. In the department of mammals, however, the in-
crease over previous years has been very marked, in consequence of a
circular which you issued early in the year calling attention to the
subject. ‘The number of specimens received, preserved either in alco-
hol or as dry skins, amounted nearly to 2,500, an aggregate which
few museums in the world can probably give, as received in the same
space of time.

As in 1854, the most important of the collections received, whether
their extent or novelty be considered, were made and sent home by
the government exploring expeditions, as follows :

Q—THE MEXICAN BOUNDARY LINE.

Survey of the boundary between the United States and Mexico—Major
W. H. Emory, U.S. A., commissioner.—In the last annual report, atten-
tion was called to the fact that the active survey of this line had been
resumed, for the purpose of accurately marking the new portion of the
United States boundary, acquired by the Gadsden treaty. The party
of the Commissioner left Washington in September for the field of
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 43

operation, and got back to San Antonio in one year, after running a
boundary line of seven hundred miles in length. Operations were
commenced simultaneously at both extremities of the line, Major
Emory himself taking charge of the eastern end, and intrusting the
western to Lieutenant Michler.

As in all previous surveys of the Mexican boundary line, much at-
tention was paid to the collection of facts and specimens illustrating
the Natural History of the region traversed, and very full series of the
animals, plants, minerals, and fossils, were secured by the gentlemen
specially charged with this duty—namely, Dr. C. B. Kennerly, sur-
geon of the expedition; Captain EH. K. Smith, commander of the
escort ; and Arthur Schott, esq., assistant to Lieutenant Michler.

The collections thus made, at the close of the field labors of the
Boundary Survey, were in no respect inferior to the preceding ones,
and formed an appropriate winding up of the natural-history opera-
tions of a great work. The pioneer of all those government explora-
tions which have yielded such important fruits to natural science,
traversing hundreds of miles previously unvisited by the naturalist,
and provided with a scientific outfit devised expressly for it, and well-
tested previously to its adoption by other parties, the Mexican Bound-
ary Survey has imperishably identified itself with the history of the
progress of science in the collecting of perhaps a larger number of
new species of North American animals and plants than any one
party ever gathered before, or will again.

b.—REGIONS WEST OF THE MISSOURI.

Exploration of northern route for Pacific railroad, under Governor
I. I. Stevens.—The rich results of explorations along this line have
already been adverted to. The naturalists of the expedition—Dr.
George Suckley and Dr. J. G. Cooper—after the expiration of their
connection with the survey in 1854, continued making collections of
facts and specimens at their own expense, and added much to their
previous acquisitions. The numerous specimens gathered by Dr.
Cooper, principally at Shoalwater bay and near San Francisco, have
not yet been all received: those of Dr. Suckley, made at the Dalles,
Fort Steilacoom, and in various portions of Oregon, have arrived, and
are of the first importance. They are especially rich in mammalia,
and will again be referred to.

Exploration of California by Lieut. Williamson.—Lieut. William-
son, after completing the report of his survey of 1853, was sent out
again in May last to examine the region along the Cascade range of
mountains in California and Oregon, for the purpose of discovering,
if possible, a practicable pass through these rugged mountains. His
labors were completed in November, and in December Dr. J. 8. New-
berry, geologist and naturalist of the party, arrived in Washington
with the rich fruits of his labors, consisting of full collections in all
departments of natural history. In mammals this collection is espe-
cially ample, containing among others many of the larger species, as
bears, deer, &c., not previously secured by any expedition. Facts of
44 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

the greatest interest in the geographical distribution of many forms
were obtained, especially in determining the existence west of the
Cascade mountains of the genera Coregonus, Siredon and Scaphiopus.

Dr. Newberry brought with him a donation to the Institution by
Dr. W. O. Ayres, of San Francisco, of a series of types of his new
species of California fishes, which will prove of very great value for
comparison.

The exploration under Lieut. J. G. Parke in California has also re-
turned to Washington with important collections, mainly in geology
and botany, made by Dr. Antisell. The expedition under Capt. Pope,
for the purpose of testing the question of artesian boring on the plains,
is still in the field, where Capt. Pope is engaged in continuing the nat-
ural history explorations commenced by him in previous expeditions.
No specimens have, however, been received from him during the year.

Survey in Texas of Capt. R. B. Marcy.—The collections made by
Dr. Shumard during this survey, referred to in 1854, were not received
until the present year, having been detained for many months at Fort
Smith by low water in the Arkansas. They consist of many interest-
ing specimens of vertebrates, insects, and plants, with full series of
the minerals and fossils of that region.

Collections made by Dr. Anderson, U. 8. A., at Fort McKavit,
Texas, have served to illustrate still further the zodlogy of this State.

Lieut. W. P. Trowbridge.—The researches of Lieut. W. P. Trow-
bridge, U. 8. Engineers, superintendent on the Pacific coast of the
tidal stations of the U. S. Coast Survey, have been vigorously con-
tinued since last year, as shown by the record of his donations, con-
sisting of many specimens of vertebrates and invertebrates from dif-
ferent points, as Cape Flattery, Astoria, San Francisco, the Faral-
lones, and San Diego. No one explorer, unaided by government
resources, has done so much in the way of collections in American
zoology as Lieut. Trowbridge accomplished by his own personal labor,
assisted by Messrs. James Wayne, T. A. Szabo, and Andrew Cas-
sidy, tidal observers under his command. It is thus that the oper-
ations of the Coast Survey, under the liberal countenance of its chief,
have tended to advance the knowledge of the natural history of our
coast to a degree only second to that of its physical features.

To Richard D. Cutts, esq., in charge of a surveying party of the
Coast Survey, the Institution is indebted for specimens of the mam-
mals, birds, reptiles, and fishes of California, of rare excellence of
preservation and scientific interest.

Another exploration made by a party of the U. S. Coast Survey
was conducted by Mr. Gustavus Wtirdemann, in continuation of former
efforts of similar character on the coasts of Louisiana and Texas. Mr,
Wiirdemann’s operations were carried on at Indian river, Florida, on
the St. John, and on the coasts of Georgia and South Carolina, at
which places he gathered many interesting specimens of animals.

Dr. J. F. Hammond, U.S. A., stationed at Fort Reading, sent in
some valuable collections from that part of California. Specimens
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 45

from Fort Yuma were presented by Major G. 8. Thomas, Lieut. Pat-
terson, and Dr. R. P. Abbott, of the U.S. army.

Geological Survey of Oregon.—A large number of boxes of minerals
and fossils have been received from Dr. J. Evans, now occupied in
the geological survey of Oregon. To these were added a number of
specimens of the mammals and birds of Oregon, as well as some still
more valuable from the region of the Upper Missouri.

Explorations on the Missourit.—The explorations on the Upper Mis-
souri and Yellowstone, by Dr. F. V. Hayden, in connexion with
Col. Vaughan, Indian agent, Mr. Alex. Culbertson, and Mr. Chou-
teau, continue to yield results of much importance. Large collections
of fossils, minerals, mammals, birds, insects, and plants, have been
made and sent in.

Dr. Hayden has revisited the Mauvaises Terres of White river
during the year, and procured some forms of fossil mammals not pre-
viously discovered. The Mauvaises Terres of the Blackfeet country
have also furnished him a rich harvest. His geological collections
now amount to nearly six tons in weight.

The expedition of United States troops under Gen. Harney against
the Sioux has also resulted in the collecting of many specimens of
fossil mammals and reptiles in the Mauvaises Terres. Most of these
will probably go to enrich the cabinet of the U. 8. Military Academy
at West Point.

A valuable series of specimens, made at Fort Benton, on the Upper
Missouri, by Mr. Harvey, was received during the summer, and serves
to complete the collections in the same vicinity by Dr. Geo. Suckley.

Exploration of Mr. Samuels.—The exploration of California by Mr.
KE. Samuels, under the patronage of the Smithsonian Institution, the
Boston Society of Natural History, and the United States mail line
to California—consisting of the United States Mail Steamship Com-
pany, (M. O. Roberts, esq., president,) the Panama Railroad Company,
(David Headly, president,) and the Pacific Steamship Company, (Mr.
Aspinwall, president)—promises to do much towards the development
of the natural history of that State. Mr. Samuels left New York on
the 5th of November, and by last advices had arrived in San Fran-
cisco. He expects to remain in California about a year, and will secure
numerous specimens in all departments of natural history, devoting
particular attention to completing such collections as are imperfectly
represented in the results of the various Pacific railroad surveys. The
above-mentioned companies have, in the most liberal spirit, granted
free passage to Mr. Samuels and his collections, besides adding other
facilities, thereby reducing materially the expenses of the work.

The California Express Company of Messrs. Wells, Fargo, & Co.,
and J. M. Freeman & Co., at the suggestion of officers of the Panama
line, have instructed their agents in California to render Mr. Samuels
all the aid in their power.

In addition to his other collections, Mr. Samuels is specially charged
by the Commissioner of Patents with securing seeds of the trees and
shrubs of California for distribution throughout the country.
46 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

C—REGIONS EAST OF THE MISSOURI.

In anticipation of the great fair in Chicago of the Illinois State
Agricultural Society, it was proposed to secure and exhibit full col-
lections of the natural history of the State on that occasion. Accord-
ingly, Mr. Robert. Kennicott was selected by the society to travel
throughout Illinois, especially along the lines of the [linois Central
railroad, and not only to make collections himself, but to instruct the
employés of the railroad company and others, so as to enable them to
assist in the work. Aided by a small appropriation by the Institu-
tion, in addition to the facilities furnished by the society and the rail-
road company, Mr. Kennicott collected in a few months the finest
cabinet of Illinois specimens ever brought together. This collection
constituted one of the most striking features of the fair, and after the
latter was closed was in great part forwarded to the Smithsonian In-
stitution. Itis much to be regretted that a very large and valuable
collection of living reptiles of Illinois, transmitted by Mr. Kennicott,
should have been destroyed through a misunderstanding with the ex-
press company. To Mr. Kennicott is due the praise of having been
the first to enter on a systematic zodlogical exploration of Illinois.
Thanks to his efforts, we have few States better, or even so well, repre-
sented in our cabinet. In this labor he has been worthily seconded
in the more southern portions of the State by Mr. William J. Shaw,*
from whom many valuable collections, especially of insects, have
already been received.

In company with William A. Henry, esq., I visited the wild regions
of northern New York, for the purpose of ‘studying the habits, and
collecting specimens, of the mammals inhabiting it. With the assist-
ance of Mr. M. Baker, of Saranac Lake, we succeeded very well in ac-
complishing our object.

Mr. Henry and myself also visited the region along the St. Law-
rence, and made some interesting collections, aided by Mr. ELA, Day-

ton, of Madrid, and Mr. W. E. ‘Guest, of Ogdensburg.

d—MEXICO.

Two very important additions to our collection of specimens, illus-
trating the natural history of Mexico, have been received during the
year. The first consists of a series of types of Mexican ser pents. as
described in the Erpetologie generale of Messrs. Duméril and Bitoron,
and presented by the Jardin des Plantes, of Paris, through the agency
of the Messrs. Duméril. The other collection was forwarded by John
Potts, esq., and contains specimens of reptiles, fishes, birds, and mam-
mals, made in central and northern Mexico, and all in the highest
state of preservation. Some of the specimens were received by Mr.
Potts for the Institution from Mr. Schleiden. Additional collections
from Mest are earnestly desired, as serving to determine more accu-
rately the nature and geographical distribution of North American

* Since writing the above, intelligence has been received of the death of Mr. Shaw.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. AT

animals. Thanks to the disinterested zeal of Mr. D. N. Couch, for-
merly of the United States army, we already possess, in the rich col-
lections made by himself and Dr. Berlandier, very full series from many
provinces of northern Mexico, as Tamaulipas, Coahuila, New Leon,
Durango, &c. The fruits of the travels of Dr. Thos. Webb, in the
more western portions of northern Mexico, are also of very great value.
The vicinity of the city of Mexico is probably the point where the
Mexican specimens of most interest are to be derived.

e€—SOUTH AMERICA AND THE REST OF THE WORLD.

Survey of North Pacific and China seas, wnder Commander John
Rodgers, United States Navy.—The collections made by this naval ex-
ploring expedition, while first in charge of Captain Ringgold, and
subsequently of Captain Rodgers during 1854 and part of 1855, have
been received in good order, and consist of many boxes and kegs of
specimens in zodlogy and botany, collected chiefly by Messrs. Wm.
Stimpson and Charles Wright, naturalists to the survey. These
specimens are principally from the South Pacific and the China seas.
Collections of very great interest were made during the past spring
and summer about Japan, Kamschatka, and in and along Behring’s
straits, and subsequently on the coast of California.

The Japan Expedition, under Commodore Perry, was also the means
of adding some fine collections of birds, reptiles, and shells to the
zoological treasures of the country.

From Dr. James Morrow, agriculturist to the expedition, has been
received a number of jars filled with reptiles and fishes of Japan, em-
bracing several novelties in science.

Exploration of the Parana, under Captain T. J. Page, United States
Navy.—This expedition has continued its important agency in devel-
oping the natural history resources of, Paraguay, by sending home
many specimens of the mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, invertebrates,
plants, minerals, &c. These, with previous collections-trom the same
source, constitute the most important series of South American ani-
mals, especially of the reptiles and fishes, ever brought to the United
States.

Arctic Expedition of Dr. Kane, United States Navy.— During the re-
cent voyage of Dr. Kane along the west coast.of Greenland, many col-
lections in natural history were obtained. It became unfortunately
necessary to abandon them, however, after the vessel became frozen
up, and the party was obliged to return in sledges.

J{—GENERAL STATEMENTS OF ADDITIONS.

I shall now proceed to discuss briefly the more important contribu-
tions to the museum during the past year, referring for particulars to
the general list of donations.

Mammals.—The most marked increase during the year has been in
48 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

the collection of mammals, of which about 2,500 specimens were re-
ceived. Much the larger number of these, as might be expected, con-
sisted of very small species, as of Arvicola, Sorex, Hesperomys, &c.,
although many of the larger kinds, as bears, deer, wolves, foxes, &c.,
are included. Most of the specimens were preserved entire in alcohol,
affording means of anatomical as well as zodlogical research. About
eight hundred skins have been registered as received or prepared in
the Institution. The additions to this department have been from all
parts of the world, including an interesting collection of English
species from Sir W. Jardine.

One of the most important contributions to the geographical collec-
tions of the institution has Leen the series of mammals of eastern
Massachusetts, received from Mr. J. W. P. Jenks, of Middleboro.
Large numbers of all the species from about Middleboro have been
collected and forwarded by Mr. Jenks, amounting to over eight hun-
dred specimens, and with the result of adding several species to those
known to inhabit the State. ;

Another collection of mammals of nearly equal extent, but of less
variety of species, was made in Clarke county, Virginia, at the instance
of Dr. Kennerly, by Mr. John A. Kniesley. This also contains some
rare species. Others were received from Mr. Bridges, in North Caro-
lina. The Rev. M. A. Curtis, of South Carolina, aided by his sons,
has also furnished the largest number of mammals, both specimens
and species, ever received from the southern States.

Birds.—Of birds, several thousand specimens have been received ;
the most important from the west coast of America. The principal
extra limital collections were from the expeditions of Captain Ring-
gold, Captain Rodgers, Commodore Perry, Captain Page, and Lieut.
Gilliss. Mr. Naffer presented some very rare species from the Phil-
ippine Islands; and Dr. Tolmie a series of skulls of birds of the
Pacific ocean, as penguins, cormorants, &c.

:

feptiles.—Many interesting collections of reptiles have been re-
ceived from different portions of North America and Mexico, as well
as from other parts of the world. Among the species collected in
Japan by Commodore Perry is a specimen of the Plestiodon, supposed
by authors to be identical with a North American lizard, (P. quinqui-
lineatus.) The collection of types of Mexican species from the Jardin
des Plantes has already been referred to.

Fishes.—The number of fishes received has been less than in pre-
vious years, although by no means deficient in interest. Those from
west of the Rocky mountains were mostly made by the government
expeditions, as also by Lieutenant Trowbridge, Dr. Ayres, Dr. J. F.
Hammond, Dr. Cooper, Dr. Suckley, Mr. Cutts, &c. The most im-
portant of the eastern were a collection from the Tortugas, made by
Lieutenant H. G. Wright, U. 8. Navy, assisted by Dr. White-
hurst, and one from the Maumee river, by Mr. George Clark. Some
Cuban fishes were presented by Professor F. Poey, of Havana, and
some South American, by Thomas Rainey, esq., United States consul.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. A9

- Invertebrates.—The principal addition to the series of invertebrata,
not yet mentioned, consists of two large cabinets, containing the valu-
able and extensive collection of shells belonging to General Totten,
and deposited by him, Such a collection has been much needed in
the Institution for purposes of comparison.

Piants.—A series of the plants of the Berlandier collection, selected
by Dr. Gray, was presented by Dr. Short, of Louisville. By special
request of Lieutenant Couch, Mr. Ervendberg forwarded a collection
from Comal county, Texas, and Dr. Glisan one from Fort Arbuckle.
Seeds of a valuable Texan grass were received from Major Carleton.

Fossils and Minerals.—The very valuable collection of minerals and
fossils collected inthe Lake Superior mining region by Messrs. Foster
and Whitney, and illustrating their government report, has been re-
ceived during the year, and with the other government geological
collections, previously secured, furnish rich material for representing
the geological features of the country. The Oregon collections of Dr.
Evans have been already mentioned.

A collection of Niagara fossils and minerals was received from
Thomas Barnett, esq.

Miscellaneous. —A fine specimen of the Australian Boomerang, and
other articles, were received from Mr. Carrington Raymond, of New
York. From Mr. N. Triibner were obtained two sets of microscopic
slides: one containing illustrations of organic tissues and organs; the
other constituting a complete system of entomology, in numerous
mounted preparations, showing the family characteristics of the prin-
cipal orders of insects.

Living Animals.—Among the additions to the museum during the
past year have been quite a number of living animals, some of them
species of great rarity, or else but seldom seen out of their native lo-
ealities. .

These have answered an excellent purpose in serving as models for
drawings by the various artists engaged in figuring the collections of
the different surveying and exploring expeditions.

Although the institution is, of itself, unable to provide suitable ac-
ecommodations for the larger mammals and birds, it is fortunate in
the zealous co-operation of Dr. Nichols, the superintendent of the
United States Insane Asylum, who cheerfully receives any specimens
sent him, and gives them every attention which they may require.
As a source of harmless amusement and mental diversion to the pa-
tients of an insane asylum, a collection of living animals has no equal,
and it is much to be desired that the number at the Washington asylum
may be materially increased.

The most conspicuous addition to the menagerie of the institution is
a huge grizzly bear, (Ursus ferox,) received in July. It was caught.
in 1853, while quite young, by Dr. John Evans, United States geol-
ogist, during his overland journey to Oregon, and sent to Mr. Hen-
dricks, in ae by whom, after two years’ time, it was forwarded _
50 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

to Washington. It is now a little more than two and a half years’
old, and has already attained a Jarge size, weighing probably five or
six hundred pounds.

Dr. Evans has also forwarded, through D. D. Owen, two living
wild cats, (Lynx rufus,) from the Upper Missouri. One of these died
last spring ; the other still survives.

A fine specimen of the American antelope (Antelope americana)
was presented by Dr. W. W. Anderson, of South Carolina, and was, as
far as I can learn, the first living one brought to the Atlantic States,
although the species is very common on the Western plains. It was
taken in the vicinity of Fort McKavit, when quite young, by Dr. W.
W. Anderson, U.S. A., together with a Virginia deer, (Cervus vir-
ginianus,) likewise presented to the Institution. The antelope, unfor-
tunately, died from some unknown cause, some months ago; the deer
is still in good health.

Amorg the small quadrupeds, received alive, of most interest is a
specimen of the grey gopher, (Sermophilus franklinii,) presented by
Robert Kennicott, esq. This species is an inhabitant of the prairies
of Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin, and probably of Minnesota, and the
plains north of it. In some of its habits, it is not dissimilar to the
prairie dog, (Cynomys ludovicianus.) Several squirrels, (Tamias
americana, Sciurus migratorius, &c.,) together with some wild mice
and moles, have also been received from various sources. A living
racoon has also been received from California.

A pair of young roseate spoonbills, (Platalea Ajaja,) caught in
Florida, was presented by. Mr. Wurdemann.

Very large numbers of living serpents, embracing many rare species,
have been received from different regions ; much the greater number,
however, from Illinois, where they were collected by Mr. Kennicott.
Others were presented by Mr. Sergeant, Mr. Kirkpatrick, &c. <A
portion of the specimens from Illinois were sent to the Jardin des
Plantes, in charge of Mr. J. H. Richard, but were wantonly thrown
over-board during the passage by a young American, to the profound
regret of this Institution, and of the administrators of the Paris
Museum d’Histoire Naturelle. A second collection, duplicate of the
first, sent by Mr. Kennicott, was destroyed by the Express Company,
to whose charge it was commited in Chicago. A long time will pro-
bably elapse before some of the species can be replaced.

Some interesting species of living frogs, salamanders, &c., have
also been received, together with a considerable number of turtles.

In view of the very great number and extent of donations to the
museum in 1855, as well as of the limited space allotted to me, it is
clearly impossible to mention here in detail any but the most import-
ant, and even some of these must be omitted. As an index, how-
ever, to the alphabetical list of donations herewith presented, I have
prepared the following tables—the first, showing the principal addi-
tions by States; in the second, the arrangement is by systematic clas-
sification :

I.—Ger0GRAPHICAL INDEX TO SPECIMENS RECEIVED.

Washington and Oregon.—Andrews, Cooper, Evans, Tolmie, Suckley.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 51

California.—Abbott, Ayres, Baird, Campbell, Cooper, Cutts, Ham-
mond, Newberry, Patterson, Taylor, Thomas, Trowbridge,
Williamson.

Southern Boundary.—United States and Mexican Boundary Commis-
sion.

Texas.—Anderson, Carleton, Ervendberg.

Louisiana.—Andrews. é;

Arkansas and Indian Territory.—Glisan, Marey, Shumard.

Missouri.—Engelmann, Hilgard, Shumard.

Kansas.—Couch, Hammond.

Nebraska.—Evans, Harvey, Hayden, Vaughan.

Jowa.—Moore, Stevens.

Wisconsin.—Barry, Child, Hoy, Kumlien.

Lake Superior.—Agassiz, Foster, Whitney.

IWinois.—Kennicott, Sergeant, Shaw.

Ohio.—Clark, Kirtland, Kirkpatrick, Lesquereux, Wormley.

Kentucky.—Grant.

Tennessee.— Means.

Alabama.—Py bas.

Mississippi.—Robinson, Spillman.

Florida.—Casey, Whitehurst, Wright, Wurdemann.

Georgia.—Leconte, Neisler, Postell.

South Carolina.—Anderson, Barratt, Curtis, Morrow, Ravenel, Weston.

North Carolina.—Bridger, Dewey, Erwin, Fitzgerald.

Virginia.—Goldsboro, Kniesley, McDonald, Palmer, Robertson.

District of Columbia.—Brown, Dougal, Herder, Johnson, Nichols.

Maryland.—Bowers.

Pennsylvamia.—Patton.

New York.—Baird, Davis, Dayton, Hall, Howell, Lawrence, Oakley,
Ward, Welsh.

Connecticut.—Plumb.

Vermont.—Thompson.

Massachusetis.—Agassiz, Brewer, Jenks, Wyman.

British Provinces —Barnett, Bell, Dawson, Montreal Natural History
Society, Wyman.

Cuba.—Poey.

Mexico.—Jardin des Plantes, Potts.

South America.—Gilliss, Nichols, Page, Rainey.

Hurope.—Clark, Easter, Jardine, Karsten, Sturm.

China, Japan, and South Pacific Ocean.--Agassiz, Gulick, Morrow,
Ringgold, Rodgers.

East Indies.—Napper.

Australia.—Raymond.

I1.—Syerematic InpEX TO SPECIMENS RECEIVED.

Mammals.—Agassiz, Anderson, Ayres, Baird, Barratt, Barry,
Brewer, Bridger, Brown, Campbell, Child, Clarke, Cooper, Couch,
Curtis, Cutts, Davis, Dawson, Dougal, Engelmann, Evans, Hale,
Hammond, Howell, Hoy, Jardine, Jenks, Kennicott, Kniesley, Kirt-
Jand, Kumlien, Lawrence, Leconte, Montreal Natural History So-
52 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ciety, Moore, Morrow, Nichols, Shaw, Stevens, Sturm, Suckley, Thomp-
son, Trowbridge, Vaughan & Hayden, Tuley, Welsh, Wurdemann,
Wyman.

Birds.—Bowers, Couch, Curtis, Cutts, Davis, Fitzgerald, Gulick,
Johnson, Kennicott, Napper, Postell, Pybas, Shaw, Sturm, Suckley,
Tolmie, Trowbridge, Vaughan & Hayden, Wurdemann.

Reptiles.—Abbott, Andrews, Anderson, Baird, Bridger, Curtis,
Cutts, Easter, Engelmann, Evans, Fitzgerald, Goldsboro, Hammond,
Howell, Jardin des Plantes, Kennicott, Kirkpatrick, Kirtland, Les-
quereux, Palmer, Patterson, Postell, Pybas, Sergeant, Shumard,
Spillman, Suckley, Trowbridge, Vaughan & Hayden, Ward, Weston,
Wormley, Wurdemann, Wyman.

Fishes. —Agassiz, Anderson, Baird, Casey, Clark, Cutts, Dayton,
Evans, Grant, Hammond, Howell, Kennicott, Means, Poey, Rainey,
Shumard, Spillman, Suckley, Trowbridge, Vaughan & Hayden, Wes-
ton, Wormley, Wright, Wurdemann, Wyman.

Invertebrates.—Barratt, Easter, Engelmann, Hammond, Lewis,
Neisler, Ravenel, Shaw, Totten, Trowbridge, Wilson, Wright.

Plants.—Carleton, Eversfield, Glisan, Hilgard, Short.

Fossils and Minerals.—Andrews, Barnet, Dewey, Erwin, Foreman,
Karsten, Oakley, Pybas, Ravenel, Spillman, Thomas, Vaughan &
Hayden.

Miscellaneous: —Raymond, Ringgold, Triibner.

B— Work done in the Museum.

Owing to the very great number of specimens received weekly at
the Institution, the labor involved in unpacking, assorting, and la-
belling, has been very onerous, considerably greater than im 1854.
No arrears, however, have been suffered to aceumulate, every ecollec-
tion on its arrival being promptly entered on the books of registry,
and appropriately ticketed, with date, locality, &c. In this labor, as
in previous years, I have been assisted by Dr. Charles Girard.

A considerable amount of taxidermical work has also been _per-
formed within the walls of the Institution; several hundreds of
skins of mammals and birds, and an equal number of skulls, having
been prepared. All such specimens as admitted of it have beem regu-
larly catalogued on the books of the museum: the serial numbering
of prepared mammals having been advanced, during the year, from
351 to 1,200; of birds, from 4,354 to 4,425; of skeletons and skulls,
from 1,276 to 2,050. The entries of mammals and skulls have been
brought completely up; those of several collections of birds have,
however, been purposely deferred for the present.

All the collections of vertebrata in the Institution (with the excep-
tion of the fishes) have, during the year, been re-arranged systemati-
cally on shelves or in drawers, so as to bring together all the speci~
niens of each species, Owing to the want of space, this could not be
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 53

done previously ; the acquisition of several additional rooms has, how-
ever, supplied all the accommodations at present necessary. Nothing
satisfactory can be done with the collection of fishes, now filling 4,000
jars, until the erection of cases in the main hall shall furnish a suit-
able place of exhibition.

During the past year my own leisure time has been chiefly em-
ployed in working up the mammalia of the collection, and the mono-
graphing of the genera has been completed, with the exception of a
few families.

Particular attention has been paid to the study of the skulls and
skeletons of the species, for which the large collections of the Institu-
tion affords unrivalled facilities. C. Girard has also prepared several
zodlegical monographs.

C—Present Condition of the Museum.

The richness of the museum of the Smithsonian Institution at the
present time must be a source of national pride to all who are desirous
of seeing at Washington a satisfactory exposition of the natural his-
tory of North America. No collection in the United States, nor in-
deed in the world, can pretend to rival it in this respect. Every part
of our continent, from the British line on the north to central Mexico
on the south, has abundant representatives here of its peculiar inhab-
itants, while the collocation of specimens of one species from many
different localities furnishes materials towards determinations of geo-
graphical distribution of inestimable value. Thus of the known spe-
cies of North American vertebrata there is scarcely one not already in
our possession, while of nondescripts we have scores. Among the
mammals alone it is probable that the final result of a critical exami-
nation of the specimens will be the addition of over fifty species to the
list, given recently by Messrs. Audubon and Bachman, most of them
being new to science. |

Of North American reptiles but two or three of those described by
Holbrook are wanting, while his aggregate has been more than
doubled.

The following table will illustrate the statistics of the alcoholic col-
lections at the present time, while the addition of similar data for
1851 will show the increase in four years. Five years is the entire
period during which the collections generally of the Institution have
been forming ; and when it is considered that no purchases whatever
have been made, save of an occasional specimen in the city market,
it must be admitted that few Institutions, even those under the direct
patronage of wealthy governments, can present such results. Nearly
every specimen, too, has been collected at the express instance of the
Institution.
54 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Table exhibiting the number of jars, with specimens in alcohol, in the
Smithsonian Institution December 31, 1855, compared with December
31, 1851.

1851. 1855.

Mammals 22+ 2.112 3.02 eee et ei eee leE eee ae 36 350
Bird ss2 3. $2.2. Sa ee Be ee ee eee ee none 39
Repiiles: <5. 2 See en eee eee ohn tos oe come cee eiamere 554 8, 344
ISU OS 22 =o ee en ee ee ee ee ee Boek bene eee came T, 082 4,000
Invertebrates eesesee ee See Sa eee Se a ee 4159 4, 148
Miscellancoussser eee eer ace sos c ote n messes ees eeceseo user 65 280

ROU OSs ee cch od avai cee Bowe mane Hee ene oleae | 1, 887 9,171

In the above enumeration it should be borne in mind that many of
the jars of invertebrata and of fishes contain a considerable number of
species each, while there are at least thirty barrels, kegs, or large
cans filled with specimens, which it has not yet been convenient to
separate and assort.

An equally gratifying increase is shown in the skins and skeletons,
of which a table similar to the preceding is herewith presented :

1851. 1854. 1855.

Brepared mammal sy Gee coee eee ae tee ersee eye none 351 1, 260
i S70 (0 |e a se eR I A SE A 3,700 4, 354 4,425
2, 050

Skullsiand ‘skeletons jrenerallyo2 2-2Ss25 23-22-2828 | 912 1,276

An addition, however, of at least 1,500 specimens of North American
birds is to be made to this lst of specimens in hand, but not yet
regularly entered.

Catalogue lists of shells, insects, minerals, fossils, plants, &c., have
not yet been prepared, although the increase here has likewise been
very great.

D—Principal Desiderata of the Museum.

Although the collections received by the Institution have been so
large and valuable, there are still some special desiderata, which it
may be well to mention here, in hopes of having them supplied.
Among the mammals east of the Mississippi most wanted are the two
species of swamp rabbit; the one (Lepus aquaticus) found in Mis-
sissippi, Louisiana, and Alabama, considerably larger than the com-
mon gray rabbit, (L. sylvaticus ;) the other from the Atlantic south-
ern States, near the seaboard, (L. palustris,) smaller than that last
mentioned. Next to these come the squirrels, especially the rusty-
bellied varieties, from the southern and western States. The various
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 55

kinds, even those most common, of the mice, moles, shrews, &c., are
very desirable.

A particular desideratum, as yet unsatisfied, is the Florida pouched
rat, or ‘salamander,’ (Geomys pineti,) abundant in Florida and
Georgia, where, though its heaps of earth are met with in every direc-
tion, the animal itself is rarely seen and caught. <A steel trap set at
night, and baited with sweet potatoes, or other vegetable substance,
would probably secure them readily, as the western species may be
taken in like manner.

While the species from the west of the Missouri are universally
desirable, the large reddish-brown hare of northern Texas, the black
and grizzly bear, the wolverine or glutton, the black-tailed deer of
the Missouri, and the Rocky mountain goat, are of particular in-
terest.

Asan additional illustration of our desiderata among the mammals,
I subjoin a copy of a circular on the subject, issued by you last spring,
and containing special instructions for preserving and forwarding.

Skeletons, with skulls of mammals, as indeed of all vertebrata, are
always desirable.

Of birds, the most prominent desiderata from the eastern portion
of the continent are the American golden eagle, (Aquila chrysaetos,)
the flamingo, (Phenicopterus ruber,) and the courleco, (Aramis scolo-
paceus,) from Florida, and the trumpeter-swan, (Cygnus buccinator,)
of the upper Mississippi.

Eggs of birds are always desirable, especially such as may serve to
complete the work of Dr. Brewer on American eggs, now under way.

Among the North American reptiles, there are but two species of
serpents described by Dr. Holbrook not in the collection ; these are the
Coluber couperi, or gopher snake, a very large, thick blue-black snake,
found on the dry pine hills on the seaboard of Georgia, especially
along the Altamaha river ; the other is the Zrigonocephalus atrofuscus,
a copper-head snake, having subquadrate blotches on the back, and
quite dark in color. This species is found in Tennessee.

Of the tortoises, any terrapins from the Atlantic, Gulf coasts, or
the West, are desirable, and these can readily be sent alive. The
Florida land-turtle, or ‘‘ gopher,’’ is also wanted. Of the salaman-
ders, large numbers of the Menobranchus, Menopoma, Siren, and Am-
phiuma, are always wanted for dissection or distribution. These
may be popularly described as lizard-shaped animals, with slimy
skins, living in water or mud, especially of rice-fields, (from the south-
ern kinds,) having two or four legs, and with or without gills on the
sides of the neck. They are usually called alligators in the western
pe though erroneously; in size they range from six inches to two

eet.

Of fishes, those particularly desirable are the species of sunfish,
&c., found in fresh-water creeks, emptying directly into salt or brack-
ish water.

E—Premiums for Collections.

_ It may, under certain circumstances, be desirable for State organiza-
tions, such as that of the New York Cabinet of Natural History, to
56 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

offer premiums for the best collections in particular departments of
natural history, (within the State,) with the privilege of taking the
others offered at a fair valuation. This would excite a spirit of
emulation between societies and individuals, which could not fail of
beneficial results, independently of the value of the collections them-
selves. The credit of having been the first to propose this plan in
America is, perhaps, due to the Ottawa Atheneum, of Ottawa, Canada,
which* has offered premiums of from two to ten pounds, amounting
in the aggregate to £33 10s.

F—Distribution of Collections,

With increasing materials at its command, the Institution is able
to do more and more in furnishing the means of scientific research to
naturalists at home and abroad, either as an absolute donation or as
an exchange for specimens received or promised. More assistance of
this kind has been rendered in 1855 than in any previous year. Thus
many specimens of American turtles and terrapins have been sent to
Professor Agassiz to aid him in preparing materials for the first vol-
ume of his great work on American zoélogy. To Dr. J. Wyman also
have been sent specimens of lophoid fishes and Perennia branchiate
reptiles, to be used in his investigations. Coleoptera have been sent to
J. L. Leconte, mammals to Major LeConte, eggs of birds to Dr. T.
M. Brewer, infusorial earths to Professor Bailey, plants to Drs. Torrey
and Gray.

A collection of 21 species of North American serpents was sent to
the Jardin des Plantes, of Paris, embracing a number not previously
in its possession. Many living specimens were also sent, but unfortu-
nately lost, in a manner previously referred to. Duplicates of collec-
tions received have also been sent to institutions in this country, as
fishes, birds and mammals to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural
Sciences, fishes to the medica] department of Pennsylvania University,
mammals to the Boston Society of Natural History, &c.

G—Lachange of Specimens.

Much has been done by the Institution in 1855, as in preceding
years, in the way of facilitating the labors of naturalists, by bring-
ing into communication those of like tastes in different parts of this
country, or the world. Many persons have thus been enabled to secure
important additions to their means of research. Its extensive lists of
workers in natural science throughout the world enables the Institu-
tion readily to meet the wishes of parties, by referring at once to those
most likely to assist in accomplishing some special object. .

Among the gentlemen who are desirous of having their wishes
made known to fellow-workers in science, may be mentioned the fol-
lowing:

M. Zanardini, of Venice, desires to exchange specimens of Medi-

* Journal of Education for Upper Canada, (Toronto,) November, 1855, page 175,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 57

terranean and other European algae for specimens from North
America.

W. A. Thomas, of Irvington, Westchester county, New York, de-
sires to exchange minerals and fossils of New York for those of other
States.

James Lewis, of Mohawk, New York, is prepared to exchange
shells of New York for others from the south and west.

B. Pybas, of Tuscumbia, Alabama, will exchange shells of the
Tennessee river for Silurian and Tertiary fossils.

Frank Higgins, of Columbus, Ohio, will exchange Ohio shells for
those of southern States.

Dr. Emile Cornaria, Assistant Director of the Civic Museum,
Milan, will exchange vertebrata, mollusca, insects, and fossils of
Italy, Hungary, &c., for corresponding specimens from America,

H—List of Additions to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution in
1855.

Dr. R. P. Abbott, U. S. A.—Reptiles from near Fort Yuma, Cali-
fornia.

Professor L. Agassiz.—¥resh-water fish from China; mammals
from Massachusetts and Lake Superior.

Dr. W. W. Anderson.—Living deer and antelope from Texas.
Specimens of destructive insects (Spenophorus) from South Carolina.

Dr. W. W. Anderson, U. S..A.—Reptiles, fishes, and young beaver
in alcohol, from Texas.

Professor E. B. Andrews.—Reptiles from western Louisiana.
Deposited.

Seth Andrews.—Infusorial earth from Olympia, Washington Ter-
ritory.

Dr. W. O. Ayres.—Fishes and scalops from San Francisco.

S. F. Baird.—Collections of fishes and reptiles made at Hlizabeth-
town, Saranac Lake, Ogdensburg, and Madrid. Thirty skins of mam-
mals from northern New York. Living racoon from California,

Thomas Barnett.—Minerals and fossils from Niagara Falls.

Dr. J. B. Barratt.—Skin of scalops, and two boxes of insects from
South Carolina.

A. C. Barry.—Mammals and fishes from Wisconsin.

John G. Bell.—Polar hare (Lepus glacialis) and mounted quail,
(Oriyx virginianus.) Specimens in flesh of the varying hare of New
York, (Lepus americanus.)

J. Jacob Bower.—Specimen in flesh of black swan of Australia,
Barnacle goose, and blue-headed pigeon from his aviary.

Dr. T. M. Brewer.—Mammals in alcohol from Massachusetts.

J. L. Bridger.—Keg of mammals and reptiles, skins of squirrels
and hares, from North Carolina.

Solomon G. Brown.—Mammals from vicinity of Washington.

A. Campbell.—T wo foetal black-tail deer from California.

_ Major J. H. Carleton, U.S. A,—Seeds of grass from the Pecos
river.

Captain J. B. Casey, U. 8S, A.—Tail of a ray, (Tampa Bay.)
58 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Rollin R. Child.—Skin of Vespertilio noveboracensis, from Wisconsin.

George Clarke.—Box of fresh white fish (Coregonus) from Lake
Erie, in ice. Barrel of fishes in alcohol from the Maumee river.

James Clarke.—Specimens of Stickleback from England.

Robert Clarke.—Skulls of wolf and mcose from northern New York.

Dr. J. G, Cooper.—Skins of mammals, birds, and case of speci-
mens in alcohol, Shoalwater bay. Mammals from Santa Clara, Cali-
fornia. ;

Lieut. D. N. Couch, U. 8. A.—Box of mammals and birds, Kansas,

Rev. M. A, Curtis, Armand D. R. Curtis, and M. Ashley Curtis.—
Numerous skins of mammals and birds, eggs of birds, reptiles in alco-
hel, from North and South Carolina.

h. D. Cutts.—Skins of birds and mammals, with reptiles and fishes
in alcohol, from San Francisco county, California.

H. Davis.—Nests and eggs of birds, mammals in alcohol, from New
York.

J. W. Dawson.—Specimens of Jaculus, Arviola, and Sorex, from
Nova Scotia. Deposited.

EL. A, Dayton.—Keg of fishes (crooked mullet) from Grass river,
New York.
¥ Samuel A, Dewey.—Chalcedony and Itacolumite from North Caro-
ina.

W. A. Dougal.—Living mole, (Scalops aquaticus.)

Dr, John D, Easter.—Salamander and gryllotalpa from Germany.

Dr. George Engelmann.—Mammals, reptiles, and crustacea from
Missouri.

Professor L. C. Ervendberg.—Collection of plants from Comal coun-
ty, Texas.
M S. B. Lrwin.—Slab of Itacolumite from Burke county, North Caro-
ina.

Dr. John Evans.—Can of reptiles and fishes from Upper Missouri.
Pair of living wild cats.

Dr, J. Evans and Wm. P. Hendricks.—Living grizzly bear from
Upper Missouri.

Dr. Eversfield.—Nut of double cocoanut, (Lodoicea seychellana.)

Rev. Frederick Fitzgerald.—Reptiles in alcohol. Skin of barred
owl (Strix nebulosa) from North Carolina.

Dr. E. Foreman.—Two sets of minerals,

A. Galbraith.—Skin of purple sand-piper, (Zringa maritima, ) Phila-
delphia.

C. Gautier.—Living deer mouse, (Hesperomys. )

Dr. Rodney Glisan, U. S. A.—Bale of dried plants, Fort Arbuckle.

J. M, Gilliss, U. S. N.—Box of birds from Chili.

Mr. Goldsboro.—lLiving Heterodon platyrhinos from Virginia.

Mr, P. Grant.—Blind-fish and crab, Amblyopsis spelaeus, and Cam-
barus pellucidus, from Mammoth cave, Kentucky.

James T. Gulick.—Skin of metarenia from Sandwich Islands.

Dr. S. E. Hale.—Two fresh specimens of pine martin or sable
(Mustela huro) from northern New York.

Dr. J, F’. Hammond, U. S. A.—Box of mammals, reptiles, fishes,
&c., from Fort Reading, California.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 59

Dr. W. A. Hammond, U. S. A.—Bottle of insects from Kansas.

Mr. Harvey.—Specimens of reptiles, fishes, and fossils from the
Upper Missouri.

Master Herder.—Irish specimen of Baltimore oriole, (Icterus Balti-
more.

De Hilgard.—Skeletons of Astur cooperi and Sciurus migratorius
(grey squirrel) from Missouri.

Dr. Hilgard.—Three boxes dried European plants. Deposited.

Robert Howell.—Mammals, reptiles, and fishes of New York.

Dr. P. R. Hoy.—Skull of Spermophilus franklinii, and many skins
of mammals, from Wisconsin.

Jardin des Plantes.—Collection of Mexican serpents, types of spe-
cies described in Erpetologie genérale.

Sir Wm. Jardine.—Skins of weasels, foxes, hares, and arvicolas
from Scotland.

J. W. P. Jenks.—Over 600 specimens of small mammals of Mas-
sachusetts in alcohol, and 120 skins.

Dr. C. J. B. Karsten.—Specimens of meteoric iron from Thorn,
Prussia.

George Kennicott.—Box of birds’ eggs from Illinois.

Robert Kennicott.—Several collections of living reptiles, about 200
in number ; reptiles, fishes, and mammals in alcohol ; dried skins of
mammals;.ege¢s of birds; specimens of seventeen-year locusts; living
grey gopher, Spermophilus franklinit, &c., from Illinois.

J. Kirkpatrick.—Living Nerodia nigra from Lorain county, Ohio.

C. F. Kirtland.—Fishes and reptiles from Ohio.

Professor J. P. Kirtland.—Seven skins of mammals from Ohio.

Mr. Kniesley.—Kight hundred small mammals from Clarke county,
Virginia, in alcohol.

Th. Kiimlien.—Five skins of birds from Wisconsin. Skin of Sorex
brevicaudus.

Geo. N. Lawrence.—Skins of Sciurus and Sorex from Iowa, of Ar-
vicola and Sorex from New York.

Major Le Conte.-—Skin of Reithrodon lecontii from Georgia.

Leo. Lesquereux.—Salamanders from Ohio.

J. Lewis.—Shells from New York.

Marshall MacDonald.—Living deer mouse (Hesperomys) from Vir-
ginia.

Dr. A. Means.—Specimens of Polyodon from Tennessee.

Montreal Society of Natural History.—Skin of Hesperomys from
Canada.

W. E. Moore and A. J. Stevens.—Mammals, fishes, and salaman-
der from Iowa.

Dr. James Morrow.—Five skins of Hesperomys aureolus from South
Carolina.

R. J. Napper.—Box of bird-skins from Manilla.

_H, M. Neisler.—Fifteen specimens of shells from the Chattahooche
river,

Dr. Nichols.—Mammals in flesh from vicinity of Washington. Two
specimens of Crax and Nasua in flesh from Paraguay.

60 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Geo. W. Oakley.—Box of pyntiferous rock from Cayuga county,
New York.

Captain W. P. Palmer, U. S. A.—Specimens of Heterodon platy-
rhinos from Virginia.

W. Patten.—Skin of Mus rattus from Pennsylvania.

Lieut: T. E. Patterson, U. S. A.—Double-headed rattlesnake from
Camp Yuma.

D. Orrin Plumb.—Box of infusorial earth ; specimens in alcohol of
fishes ; skull of rattlesnake ; specimen of gibbsite.

Professor F'. Poey.—Fishes from Cuba.

James P. Postell.—Kiggs of birds and reptiles from Georgia.

John Potts:—Reptiles and fishes in alcohol; skins of mammals
and birds from Mexico.

B. Pybas.—Reptiles, fishes, and fossils from Alabama.

Thomas Rainey.—Fishes (Callichthys and Osteoglossum) from Para.

Edward Ravenel.—Box of recent and fossil shells of Carolina, in-
cluding Encope macrophora, Mellita ampla, and caroliniana.

Carrington Raymond.—Australian Boomerang club and satchel.

Commander C. Ringgold, U. S. N.—Bow and four bone-tipped ar-
rows—island of Nitenda.

Wynaham Robertson.—End of lower jaw of young mastodon from
Washington county, Virginia.

EF. §. Robinson.—Insects from Mississippi.

F’. Schafhirt.—Separated human skull.

FI’. D. Sergeant.—Living specimens of bull-snake (Pityophis say?)
and jar of reptiles from Hlinois.

W. J. Shaw.—Mammals, birds, insects and plants from Illinois.

Dr. Short, Lieut. D. N. Couch, and Professor A. Gray.—Set of
plants of Mexico and Texas from the Berlandier collection.

Dr. B. F. Shumard.—Reptiles and fishes from Missouri.

Dr. Wm. Spillman.—Fishes, reptiles, shells, and fossils from Mis-
sissippi.

F’. Sturm.—Skins, nests, and eggs of birds; skins and skulls of
mammals from Europe.

Dr. George Suckley, U. S. A.—Very large collections of mammals,
birds, reptiles, fishes, and invertebrates from Washington and Oregon
Territories. Living serpent, Mpicrates maurus, from Panama.

A. 8. Taylor.—Dried specimens of grasshopper, and of Yalirus,
from California.

Major G. H. Thomas, U. 8S. A.—Box of river sediment, &c., from
the Colorado river.

Professor Z. Thompson.—Skins of mammals and alcoholic speci-
mens from Vermont.

Dr. W. F. Tolmie.—Skulls of birds from the Pacific.

General Totten, U. S. A.—Two cabinets containing a large collec-
tion of shells. Deposited.

Lieut. W. P. Trowbridge, U. S. A.—Box of birds and mammals
from San Diego, California, collected by Andrew Cassidy; collection
of muds from San Diego; skins of mammals collected in Oregon by
Job Wayne; box of marine plants; two boxes mammals and birds,
collected by T. A. Szabo; keg of reptiles and fishes from coast of Cali-

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 61

fornia; other collections, in alcohol, from Cape Flattery and Farra-
lones; box of shells, La Paz, &c.

N. Triibner.—Collection of 150 slides from the microscope, ex-
hibiting dissections, illustrating different families of insects ; also 25
miscellaneous slides prepared by H. Frey.

Col. Joseph Tuley.—Fresh skin of elk (Zlaphus Canadensis) from
his park.

Gilonel Alfred Vaughan and Dr. F’. V. Hayden.—Skins and skulls;
mammals and birds; reptiles and fishes in alcohol; box of fossils, from
Upper Missouri.

Gen. Ward.—Heterodon niger from Sing Sing, New York.

David Welsh.—Skins of squirrels (Tamias and Seiur us) from New
York.

Plowden C. J. Weston.—Reptiles and birds in alcohol; fishes from
South Carolina; fern in alcohol.

Dr, Wilson, U. 8. A.—Shells from Japan.

Dr. T. G. Wormley.—Reptiles and fishes from Ohio. .

Lieut. H. G. Wright, U. S. A., and Dr. D. D. Whitehurst. Fashion
and invertebrates from Tortugas.

Gustavus Wiirdemann. Egos and skins of birds, reptiles, fishes,
and invertebrates, in alcohol ; pair of living roseate ‘spoonbills, (Pla-
talea Ajaja,) from Indian river, Florida, and coast of Georgia and
South Carolina.

Professor J. Wyman.—Arviciola, Sorex, and Cyclopterus, from
Labrador. Scaphiopus holbrookii from Cambridge. Deposited,
62

TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

State.

Nova Scotia

Oanada

Maine

New Hampshire--

Vermont

eee wee

Massachusetts - ..

Rhode Island ---.

Connecticut . -..-

Name of observer.

Henry {hoGlese nes cs.<s54002
Erof. cA bap mSauarbe so. =,"

Ds pO ABR ABBE =o tote 2 mic ec
lenny Walliseee sense sss =e
W. E. Dana
George B. Barrows.--.---.--.-
Jobn J. Bell

G: AW. /Gup tilliz ee ee ee 2
BarGouldubrowineae se oe a

Henry A. Sawyer, A. M_-_----
Rev. U: Wigueonards 222 5° ==
iD). BuckWande ae eet ee

Georgerbliss sees 22 22. a=
James RC Colhyaspeseeseese
nirens Ch aulinia sey ae = see
William Bacon
John Brookshear sae ose oa
Rey. Emerson Davis
Amasa Holeombeee seen. =] oe
James Orton. =—- 4

Lavalette Wilson-
Hon. William Mitchell_-.---
Prot. Eas onelles see 2 ae
EC. Perkins s MeeD = <- create
Edward A. Smith, M. D.
Krank H. Rice, M. D..-- fee
Samuel Rodman..-.......--
John George Metcalf--------
Henry RICO sane seme owe Lae
Alben Schlegel s==-=-.- = =
NORA Steric | See ee 2

James Rankin .--.---------
N.. Scholfield eee eee

Bphraim) byrams eee ee
John Lefferts

Residence. County.
Albion Mines --.--- Pictou.
Horton, Acadia College.

St.) Martings. - = Laval.
Montreal === as522
Steuben. So ss-c Se Washington.
Portland 22) cane Cumberland.
REMDyy foaes soe Washington.
Riryehure esse sen Oxford.
Carmelge= mor oe Se Penobscot.
Gardimenes = se" Kennebec.
Biiehwl ages ee Hancock.
Windham i =o c2ce | Cumberland.
Comishig 5 - ose York.
MUTA ORG sae cee Coos.
Conconde. Lee eee Merrimac,
Londonderry-.---- - Rockingham.
Manchester -- ---- Hillsboro’.
North Barnstead --| Belknap.
Great Falis---..-- Strafford.
Exeter sees ee {\ockingham.
Brandonk=-—er o> Rutland.
Craftsbury -=--.--- Orleans.
Saxe’s Millg__.__- Franklin.
Nonwich= ses Windsor.
Shelburne -...-.-- Chittenden.
St. Johnsbury ----- | Caledonia.
Springfield - ------ Hampden.
Richmondes saeco 3erkshire.
Princetony= = 222 Worcester.
Westfield .... .-.. Hampden.
Southwick_.----.- Hampden.
Williamstown ----| Berkshire.
Nantucket. = -=—--2 Nantucket.
ATI GTR Gen Hampshire.
Newburyport ----- Wssex,.
Woreesteria-2 2.2 Worcester.
New Bedford. -.--..- Bristol.
Mendons 2-4. Worcester.
North Attleboro’ _-| Bristol.
Abarayeovay 5S = eee Bristol.
Jamibridee.= ===. =. Middlesex.
Wood’s Hole._-_-_- Barnstable.
Providence -....-- Providence.
Kast Greenwich ---| Washington.
New London. -_-.-- New London.
Pomtreten oe Windham.
Georgetown -..--- Fairfield.
paybrogk. =... -.--5 Middlesex.
NGI) ee a New London.
New York=. 2-45 New York.
Beviethy, as cee ae Putnam.
Canton s.. = 2 St. Lawrenee.
bap. Harbor --seee Suffolk.
onl Skene eee Seneca,
OBWEZO q mece enna Oswego.
Baldwinsville -...- Onondaga.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 63

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.

State.

New York—Cont-.

New Jersey_--- ..

Pennsylvania ----

Delaware_..--.-.-

Maryland. ......-

Virginia yc <565.--

Name of observer. Residence. County.
Wie Hi Giresgeese Se bes saree Ogdensburgh -.--- St. Lawrence.
Ae WG. Mionehousens 205 o/s Spencertown.._.--- Columbia.
J. Everett Breed 2. ---..--.- Smithville - -_.._- Jefferson.
Rex Wire Da vWilisOle syste e Gelevars ese ae Ontario.
PO: Walhams =i Dyas ee Watertown _.____- Jefferson.
WeeWi Saneers vines se === Blackwell’s Island_| New York.
Johnvleltees ssa saecasesse Tabertyse 3-54 222 Sullivan.
Je We@nickenno.s 225 2255 52 OniGm ert eek Seneca.
Eee iA Dave Diem aes s Sees dais 245) WG eee Alleghany.
Win. , Pratteo2022222222 f] Rochester ---.--.. Monroe.
Joseph  Weelaylon. = 5252552 Plattsburg_.-._-.. Clinton.
dw C. Reedeeaes l= c2c8<s Homer cae. 34a yer Cortland.
We He Denning: 2 2e52252 Fishkill Landing --| Dutchess.
Mrs. obdellh -<5%e0 25 = North Salem.__... Westchester.
He ACy Dayton ane soot Sch et Madrid Se ciees see St. Lawrence.
JohnwRe Hrenchs 8 seks us eA Mexicans 22 2a Oswego.
Stephen! landonss-- = =2522= Hidenveees Aes o2 soe Hrie.
8 Gibbons e222. f| New York...---.. New York.
Jt Carolitiousemn- 22252222 Towvallle {22225 22" Lewis.
Dive Pe Sartwellt 2222 £22 5% Reni ia eye Yates.
Reve. Rhos ween Stnone 2 a4 5 s5 Flatbush 2222-2 25- Kings.
Stillman Spooner.-....-_..- Wampsville - _.__. Madison. *
eli COO Kee mee eee ae ek Bloomfield = ---.~. Essex.
Dr HE heapenmidt= s252 222.8 Burlington ~__.._- Burlington.
W. Aye Wihitehead sis 22% Ne Waris 22 esos Hssex.
Joseph Edwards-=-----2---- Chromedale --..-- Delaware.
Rev. Grier Ralston 2=2225=22 Norristown ---.-.- Montgomery.
JohnshHeisely ese so oo2cooe Harrisburg ----..- Dauphin.
NES UaCObs eae a= ai Saas aa Gettysburg -.-..__ Adams.
Fenelon Darlington----..--- ROcopsonees = aes Chester.
Samuel Brown .------------ Bediondies 2) cso Bedford.
Whenezervilances2-)—.5 52552 Momisville =" s 220 Bucks.
Pale S wither sae aa Sao HMavertordrs. 5-552 Philadelphia.
Hrancis!Schremenrs. 425-2222 Moss Groves...» Crawford.
Chas? 8: Jamess4 2.825325 2.2 lewisburcss.- 2 22 Union.
J, oR hicks bua = 2) 2 Meadville’ £22 =~ Crawford.
We Wie Wolsonmees neice Pittsburg. -/2 se: Alleghany.
OPES Hoppstesesetck sess ese Randolph, 222.225" Crawford.
Wind Smiths sae Sas hes 28 Canonsburg -_----- Washington.
John Herert. Sees sas asses Berwick ee 235 oe Columbia.
He AW Brickensteim 222225452 Nazareth Hall ----| Northampton.
Prof. Jas. A. Kirkpatrick----] Philadelphia -~_-___- Philadelphia.
BLO WenGe Wilsons. 22 S22 Carlislecs 22 5.222 Cumberland.
Wictor Scriven ees A552 se Mroy iw, eee. Alleghany.
Wim, Martine. 2222222222. {| Pittsburg..------. Alleghany.
URC RCI = we see eee Serer Pottsville -....-.- Schuylkill.
ee | kore Newcastle.
MRRP EL VeMb Aer tae sao oo Sykesvalless 22522 — Carroll.
Henry E. Hanshaw_--.---.-- Hredenekren sae a Frederick.
By Omiowndesst6.\5522>_ .2 Bladensburg ----- - Prince George.
JamestAwbearce: yr2o222-25- Chestertown --.--. Kent.
‘AC Zum broek Mer Dis 325 < Anmapolis 20. o2ke Anne Arundel.
Lieut. R. EF: Astrop..------- Crichton’s Store---} Brunswick.
Samuel Concnmeen 2 = 32 Biitaloes =. sees Putnam.
Benjamin Hallowell,-.---.-- Alexandria ......- Alexandria.
64

TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.

State.

Name of observer.

Virginia—Cont’d -

North Carolina---

South Carolina- - -

"Georgia ote

Bloriday. -s48 ae

Alabama)== ose

Mississippi-------

ouisianaee ss see
Texas. . Ieee

Tennessee ---=---

Kentucky 224-—-

lO SOG b i 2
James T. Clarke
J. W. Marvin

Wis. CS Quincyeeees oo ose
Miss EH. Kownslar

Prof. James Phillips ---.----
EK. N. Fuller

Ht Degas ear h (os bo ote IN al 0) os eee
Dr. James Anderson
Re JB Gibson eae so 2 jess
He Me sPendleton "3: S225"
John F. Posey
W. Haines

James Bapbaleyess seh
William: Cy Denmis! --2.522252
Lieut. Joss anyre o- ooe ae
John) Pearsonmsem 52 es28
Hon. Augustus Steele. ..-..-
George Benagh!:22--....=--
Sod. Cummings 25 22552
Prof. John Darby
EL Rutwalleresetgre fe eo
Prof. J. Boyd Elliott_..-----
Prof. L. Harper
DALES |S. JAR ees
Rev E. SiRobinsons---.=2--
Dr. EH. H. Barton
J. Li. Rorkess Seer Woe oe
S. K. Jennings, M. D
Dr. R. T. Carver

ww Nw ee eee ee

0), Beabtyre eee 2s oo Ek
Lh. Ge Ray; Mit syee 5 oe
George §. Savage, M. D
John Swain Me Des. See
Mrs. Lawrence Young
Prof. J. W. Andrews
R. 5. Bosworth
F.- A. Bentonteses- soe cceece
George L. Crookham-.-.---
M. Gilmores == eee
Miss Ardelia Cunningham. - - -
Jacob M. Desellem..-....---
Ii:. Mi. Daytoneeeeeeeeee oe
J. H. Fairchild
Li. .Gronewest eee eeeeeeees
Geo. W.. darpera ass eee eee
Ebenezer Hannaford
James D. Herrick
I’. Hollenbeck

Residence. County.
Wardensville.__--- | Hardy.
Mouut Solon _----- | Augusta.
Winchester] =o- - = Frederick.
Lewisburg. -22- Greenbrier.
West Union. .----- Doddridge.
Berrywilletas os. 22 Clark.
Huntersville__-_-__- Pocahontas.
Portsmouth. __.--- Norfolk.
Goldsborough- -- -- Wayne.
Chapeletnils 2 saer 2 Orange.
Edisto Island _ =~ -- Colleton.
Waccaman. .222--- All Saints Parish.
Charlestonss. see | Charleston.
Aiken eaeer 22 S52 Barnwell.
Gamdene ses see Kershaw.
The hock a. e- Upson.
Whitemarsh Island | Chatham.
Spantatees- ose aon Hancock.
SewaTN a eee are te Chatham.
Ancustaeee sean. Richmond.
Jacksonville -_._-- Duval.
Garrisville._—__-- -} Alachua.
SaliPPondsses see. Island Key West.
Rensacola;caeeeeee | Escambia.
Cedar Keysi. <2. 222 Levy.
Tusealoosaneuse — oe Tuscaloosa.
Monroeville. ___~-- Monroe.
Anbu, eet ee Macon.
Green Springs----- Green.
PortsGibsontse] 22] Claiborne.
Oxfords eee ene Lafayette.
Columibuss= 2234522 Lowndes.
Garlandsville ----- Jasper.
New Orleans------ Orleans.
New Wied: --2---- Comal.
ATIStinwee-. see Travis.
Hriendship:5-= Dyer.
Knoxville 22 Knox.
Glenwood!=S22 ===" Montgomery.
Danvillewss: es. Boyle.

(PATS ent tte stots Ce | Bourbon.
Millersburg_--.--- Bourbon.
Ballardsville ._-..__- Oldham.
Springdale. s.-ve- Jefferson.
Marietta. == _ 222. -- Washington.
College Hall S_ 222. Hamilton.
Mount Vernon ----| Knox.

Jack Some CM on cto Jackson.
Union villes: 2-282 Lake.
Richmond... Joan Jefferson.
Newark? -.- teas Licking.
Oberlmelny Aaa Loraine.
Germantown. ----- Montgomery.
Cincinnati eee ee Hamilton.
Cheviots [2 ae Hamilton.
Jefferson = = sees Ashtabula.
Perrysburg -...---!, Wood.
METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 65

State. Name of observer. | Residence. County.
Qhio—Continued..| J. G. F. Holston, M. D_----- Zanesville’ ot. 52... Muskingum.
Gedo Hydewe cet soe cece Cleyelandyaeseeeee Cuyahoga,
SM Luther. 22222222. fF] item ----------- Portage.
John Ingram, M. D--------- Sayannahee 3 2S Ashland.
GW Iuime rain, epee = Lic Gallipolis S2be22. Gallia.
JpMcDaMathewss=/c-s0 5 Hillsborough — ---_| Highland.
James gheyeoekers a. oe oie Portsmouth __.--- Scioto.
Rrotesa Ne santond 422/22 Granville) se. S25. Licking.
Joseph: Shawesaoes yok sce) Bellefontaine ----- Logan.
Wil schenck, »Me Dose. cce VtrayaU tel birat yt wo pe Warren.
Prof. nG,.eWalliamsoo. 65 = Unbanawties24222e- Champaign.
Michigan... =... - Seth L. Andrews, M. D------ Romeo hs See Macomb,
Wang Campbellass=- (o2--05- Battle Creek ....-- Calhoun.
Alireduh jCupniene= = 2.52.2 Grand Rapids----- Kent.
Rev. George Duffield_--_---- Wetrorit 22st Ate. Wayne.
EPR ME (SA) Sitnee) aye ae ae Oa ae Saugatuck .-.--..- Alleghany.
CSAC SSI cechoVevme = etl Oe A pe gee Stiadamesses. Se 2 Michilimackinae.
[eager Stone asa at = Sak Romeo. 22 2h seL Macomb.
.| Miss Octavia C. Walker------ Cooper castes eae Kalamazoo.
HAC VWihelip heya eye Monnoer. 36242222 Monroe.
Prof, A. Winchell... {| Aum Arbor .-.-_-] Washtenaw.
Padiana 226. IVES Wisg AUIS GIR s Pete Richmond. = 52222 Wayne.
OLO sig) 522% oY ctf, 8 ne ne en New Albany --...- Floyd.
John Chappellsmith. .-----~- New Harmony ----] Posey.
Dre) We Werseye ee Miltont eet ese Wayne.
Joseph: Moorepa. 2-5.) 2-25 Richmond. 2 Wayne.
PNGIs, 22 es Drakiny Brendel sha Peoriagee aya. ean Peoria.
Wink, Va Bldredgen i) 2 2. Bio itonee ee ee Macoupin.
JohaiGrantee joa. hes oe Manchester..-.-.-- Scott.
Voce se a ees wo Athengaast 3 eee Menard.
| Ue Olsblarnis gM Des os = 2 Obtay aes St oss! La Salle.
John James, M. D...... ---- Upper Alton.____- Madison.
Seb Meads Me TD) wroe 2 26 es 2 Augustae. 32528222 Hancock.
HentyoAMlitZen eee 2a = ae Weest'Saleme +... - 2 Edwards.
Benj Wihitakenss- 5924 25 Warsawesece 2.2 Hancock,
BHSsONTI =. oss Chas: @. Chandler, M.D. -=| Rockport). 4-722 Boone.
Edw. Duffield, M. D_--- --.- Hoannibalesss- 222 Marion.
Geo. Engelmann, M. D.---.- Steybouig St sere" St. Louis.
OME (Pea lluenms ator Bale soe Dry Ridve ease 5 Marion.
1S es eae HeCiebidwelk Mi De 22225. Quasqueton...-._- Buchanan.
Townsend M. Connel-------- Pleasant Plain ----| Jefferson.
Dre Asat Orie Ee ewe Soe 22 Dibugueses=— eee Dubuque.
Daniel McCready, .2.--—-----. Fort Madison ----- Lee.
ee a oon { Sa Peemeae 2 Plum Spring ---.-- Delaware.
RE SIPRLEPETA ATA ca ee Muscatine 327° 322% Muscatine.
Hs H..A. Scheeper ....-.-.-- Pellaysee? ct ae Marion.
Wisconsin -.....- MisseMiann: Baler Bis 22.3. = 2 Ceresca’ = 2oennenae Fond du Lae.
Protas. pAwBeam sa 22 So 2 cies Waukesha <= -2..-- Waukesha,
John H. Himoe...-.----...- Norwayites 23-35 = Racine.
Wm. H Newton .
L. Washington f Mee case. . Bee ee Douglas.
J.) Lig eickondis i eos pret ts Platteville..._...- Grant.
Prof. Wisbortern 2.5... ..'- = Beloubeeae Sy 2o8 Rock.
iH Cy Romeroye eee oc 5 - Milwaukie_--.---- Milwaukie.
s Jack. Wilandiee Janesville ...-...- Rock.
Carl: Winkien: Bach anna ana Milwaukie....... -' Milwaukie.

5
66 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.

® State. Name of observer. | Residence. County.
Minnesota. /..--|_-S..R,. Riggers eta Hazlewood .....--
Di BasSpengereszeee.22--.--- St, Josephe= ==. ose Pembina.
California .--...- Dre EA GADpORS = aes aa os oan San Francisco. ---- San Francisco.
a nie ee, nee tas t Sacramento. SSaeniy Sacramento.
Dr.jRoberti. Reid <2 =. Stockton ..-..---- San Joaquin.
Hi. B. Territory=--} Donald Gunn/---..-...-..-- Red River Settlem’t
Paraguay - <---+- ioAL Hppknsies- 2.2. --2 = |
Mexico_2.es222e- Prof... ¢ wervendberg.<.-—.
Jaaviaica = eee James G. Sawking ....-...-- |
Nicaragua -....-- Ae WONGS eriainemets tania mite
Venezuela ......- As Hendler 2a soecteee< sa man |
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

67

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Wasuineton, January 1, 1856.

The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents the fol-
lowing report relative to the finances of the Smithsonian Institution,

the expenditures during the year 1855, We.

The following is a general statement of the fund:

The wholeamount of the Smithsonian bequest deposited
in the treasury of the United States, (from which an
annual income, at 6 per cent., of $30,910 14 is de-

OO ie WBeoniicaervnase Bee eats teiginiisieceaainares

Amount of unexpended interest reported,
1855, January 1, as incharge of Messrs.
Bree OF EIGER canaca nck swnconaesnnenansie’

From which deduct amount passed by them

to the credit of the treasurer to meet
payments.on building during 1890......

Balance in the hands of the treasurer, Ist
WAY ee aS acess <tddocace vaeue noes ost

The following is a general view of the
during the year 1855:

RECEIPTS.

Balance in the hands of the treasurer, Jan-
PERON Ly CLG chic thin a's asqcian sicerorominrenrariaseiseisle
Interest on the original fund ($515,169)
BREA Sekt e eer tee noe ces daeneveciseucosecie ne =
Interest on the extra fund for the year

Amount drawn from Corcoran & Riggs to
meet payments on building...........se00

EXPENDITURES.

For building, furniture, fixtures, &c.......
For items common to the objects of the

POPSUMLUGEON . Se. dash Ceetectet se esaecessces cena
For publications, researches, and lectures
For library, museum, and gallery of art...

ra

5,000 00

—_—_———-_

120,000 00
8,189 84

—_—_

receipts and

$14,159 59
30,910 21
6,044 38
5,000 00

$19,312 87

13,372 71
7,169 95
8,068 81

$515,169 00

128,189 84

643,358 84

expenditures

'$56,114 18

—_—_—.

47.994 34
68 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Balance in the hands of the treasurer, on the Ist of Jan-

UENO uy dlcts) QAP AMBRE CUS 9. SMMBRR AR RSNA RAUSES Hes

eae

&8.189 84

56,114 18

The following is a detailed statement of the expenditures during

the year 1855:
BUILDING, FURNITURE, FIXTURES, &C.

Pay ON CONMBGES moth ass: secesasicecnes- oases $16,200 00
Pay of architects, draughtsmen, &c........ 500 00
Miscellaneous repairs to building, EC. sie scni 436 90
Furniture and fixtures for uses in common 1,488 04
Furniture and fixtures for library ......... 400 00
Furniture and fixtures for museum......... 200 00
Grounds (lamps for the walks)............... T4 25
Magnetic observatory........cscscesserereeeees 3 68
m —E

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Meetings of the Board of Regents and com-

RICE CS ee Sect see croc sanannss as insists eceriss as 849 65
Pgh tins and. HeatiMOi cece seseuerse nae 1,022 80
MOSER SO oe osieniccccn sane toon s+ series: pactgneccaee 495 41
Transportation and exchange Gaedseeb ae hae 1,103 23
MOM MNGi vn sista omacassossviee goes seoralnclees 411 98
CeCe Td AMG Pec cons pace sso teiasninwinaselee 827 55
PNR MATIN 5 sod ee teivc cowieserneines anode scenes 257 06
ORAL Ollie ccm cee shuicnonaecacesters sstaneeeter 123 14
Pneidientalg. "@CNeLal vn .teccstec secs sacp erases 1,257 16
Salagies——Secretar Vv. scisiitas. votes ere seeeah- vas 3,500 00

high ClEOIC gawcmanss s+ ccck capeeece ss 1,200 00
TROOKMRCE DEL «ccs hcre ev daucttesenns 200 00
AMICON cle ealess<cencesa rene aceeteep 400 00
TGR OTOL. cocaine soit ce. osue eee 250 00
NY eC TMC emer. ses crins ase ce getenen 365 00
iia Clerk ee. 5 codetabeectt stab nace 250 00

PUBLICATIONS, RESHARCHES, AND LECTURES.

For Smithsonian Contributions to Know-

1 Ed WA ERs 3 cnc SU eRe tor 3,562
For reports on progress of knowledge...... 350
For other publications. ....2...............0006 316
HiGr MCtCOTOlLOGY..5.02 +52 eeecenmemvems letmadesata 1,862
INGE COMPUTATIONS: ..3..c =. nerteeumetee toes totes 50
Hor inwestigations..\0/25i0..nensaddtpent cates. 12
For lectures, illustrations, and apparatus 40

mutendance) chee ioreadsa.. 60
pay of lecturers ec inke < 914

92
00

$19,312 87

12,512 98

7,169 95
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 69

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART.

Library:
BU VMINOL DOOR 02s. oteMOR II RONG oe $3,186 15
Transportation for library............... 330 49
Stereotype System........cesceeceesseeeees 44 22
Pay or assistants. 2.1). Ae 1,740 00
Incidentals to library...............s0008 124 31
Museum:
Salary of assistant secretary............ 2,000 00
HieONO ATID PIS. coed. 0. tase ttevesenescgee aco 150 00
Collections ......5, MRI a... di david. orton 150 50
Pilcoholiialass jars, doers !.. 1/909... 199 88
Assistance, labor, and incidentals to
soap isch i ee UR GREE A SB AMM aA 390 67
Transportation for museum............. 529 24
MMPS OOL VATE. Dae a iU.lie1 tue dae de Sib sete 83 18

_ $8,928 54
47,924 34

It will be seen, from the foregoing statement, that the expenditures
for the building differ considerably from the estimate of the commit-
tee. At the time of making the estimate, they had no means of as-
certaining what would be required for payment of the contractor.
The architect had not furnished his final statement of the entire cost
of the edifice, and it was in consideration of this that a resolution was
adopted, authorizing the Building Committee to pay out of the special
fund of the Institution such sum as would be required. They have
accordingly drawn $5,000 on this account from Messrs. Corcoran &
Riggs, as is shown in the general statement.

On account of the large drafts required for payments on the build-
ing, an effort was made to curtail the expenditures on other parts of
the operations. The whole sum appropriated for the current expenses
of the Institution during the year 1855, exclusive of the building,
was $32,465. Of this sum there has been expended but $28,611 47;
the remainder, $3,853 53, serves to increase the amount in the hands
of the treasurer, and will be appropriated to discharging the sum still
due the contractor.

Hereafter the funds of the Institution will be in a much more
manageable condition. The architect has rendered his final account,
and the sum of about $6,000 still due on the building being definitely
known, a more precise estimate can be now made. If the expendi-
tures during the present year are kept within the estimate, as they
probably will be, the sum of $125,000 of accrued interest will be on
hand at the beginning of 1857, which may be permanently invested
as a part of the capital.

It has been stated, in the preceding reports, that a plan of finances
was adopted in the beginning, by which a portion of the income might
be saved for the purpose of increasing the capital rendered necessary
to defray the expense of the support of the large building authorized
70 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

by Congress. It was at first. proposed to add $100,000 to the origi-
nal fund; and afterwards the plan was enlarged, so as to make the ©
amount $150,000. This last plan, however, was based upon a limit
of expenditure of $250,000 tor the building. The scheme would
have been entirely successful, and even a larger saving might have
been made had the building been completed within the estimated
cost; but this was found inconsistent with a proper regard to the
safety and durability of the edifice. The actual cost, according to the
statement of the Building Committee, exclusive of furniture, is about
Bee on notwithstanding this, the sum which has been saved is

125,000. Although this is not all that could have been wished, it is,
perhaps, more than could have been reasonably anticipated. The
committee have been informed that Messrs. Corcoran and Riggs do
not desire any longer to retain possession of the surplus fund, and it
will therefore be necessary to urge its acceptance by Congress as an
addition to the fund in the United States treasury, or securely invest
it in State stocks. The interest on the original fund is received semi-
annually, and as far as possible it will be advisable to make the
payments of salaries and other objects at the same time. Unless
this is done, a surplus will continually be required which is not draw-
ing interest, or bills must be paid by drafts in anticipation of the end
of the half year. While the building was in process of erection, it
was impossible to observe a rule of this kind, since, according to the
original contract, the payments for the work done were to be made
monthly.

It will be recollected that a portion of the Smithsonian bequest
(about $25,000) still remains in England as the principal of a life an-
nuity in favor of Madame de la Batut, the mother of the nephew of
Smithson. The annuitant is a very aged person, and cannot in the
ordinary course of nature be expected long to survive. The Hon.
Mr. Rush, to whom this matter was referred, has written to Messrs.
Clarke, Fynmore, & Fladgate, the solicitors employed in obtaining
the bequest, asking them to procure information in regard to this
point.

Another subject, which may require the attention of the Board, is
that of the Wynn estate, contingently bequeathed to the Smithsonian
Institution. It appears bya letter from Joseph H. Patton, esq., of New
York, who was engaged by the Board to inquire into the matter, that
the widow of Mr: Thomas Wynn was married in 1854 to Captain An-
derson, of the Royal artillery, now stationed at Barbadoes, where she
resides with the child, upon whose decease, without issue, the bulk of
the estate is to come to this Institution.

Mr. Patton advises that the Board require from the executors secu-
rity for the proper fulfilment of the trust.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

71

The committee submit the following estimates for appropriations

for the year 1856:

BUILDING, FURNITURE, FIXTURES, ETC.

NT i ica ces aremasiegrennearrepcctasescese $6,000
Repairs and miscellaneous incidentals to build-

(BAR iH SSSI ae se 600

Furniture, &c., for uses in common.............. 500

MUMIA Vaan cv atesececucsccctns« 300

RUIMAEMDRS cc ctas sche s etc ties oc. 150

PPE TIETIC QUREDVEEORY 2c. .ch.sesacesseessaccionsacce 20

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Meetings of Board and committees............... $375
Beirtin rand WeatiNe... 2...c0.caecssescsteesscessee 1,200
ODS VS ELAWRARE SARS ne aeiropete aian iteard me ania ape 400
Transportation and exchange.............csccecee 1,000
0G EAS lee 300
BaP TOUHM Gs: .., 00.0 cers anceostsses crac cctesse secs 350
PM EN ee ieee Seen ceceaesssscteses Gcdvceeveee 300
PEAT ADONY: AGLI UP .2n.0rcescerestyccoeucetens cscs 800
PRETO PMaIAONCEAL wn cstncaestscgecdeccsseseneetvcets 500
PALATICHR—SeCCTEEATY ......0ccessscescscscoecssceseccece 3,500
WORE MGIOING: win ress Oochiciessvccect baat as 1,200
IGUICROGDOL fesseacas ceessestatstacseceiers 200
PUNE ae A ssnecs 5. geess.- 2 ceo terete ane ene 400
RENIN oo ec Secs ee etitet cst ities 550
WOOL OLST corns sesh asec cf starewsetsenentets 450
ROMS CACO sees. nae lecets cohs seco cete 200

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge...... $5,500
Reports on the progress of knowledge........... 1,000
Rue ULICHIIGHS'S . 2.0.1. ns 005s sercad<canceedoesenes 355
| ESI 7 te 7 Re NRO Sy a aR 1,000
Investigations, computations, and researches... 500
EEE ao i RET PR OnE RE 800

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART.

Labrary :
EOI 5130): a a $3,500
eAVIOL ASIP A es occ esin doacinnesis oi» ao00eeeue 2,500
PMATAP OFA Iss scnacsnconesenssa+coesemnet 300
PMCS TE LRG oe ee a ic pings oeins oie wnn'antteide 500
Museum :
Salary of assistant secretary.......ss..sesce0e 2,000
RI PRTIOUG: eta iin oo savaseceardans : 200

MMENEIN 650507 cues Coase od ss évnevntttttoncce 150

$7,570 00

11,725 00

9,155 00
72 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Alcohol, glass jars, &¢...........00.
Transportation ic... l.shaamneenete ee
Assistancevand labor )..9.98 22. . 2.9
Gallery of Art........... Rt 3 COE aE Fe

Respectfully submitted :

Bold ee $500 00
ree 300 00
meee Tas 500 00
BE tts 100 00

—+ + 810.550;.00
39,000 00

——

J. A. PEARCE,

J. G. TOTTEN,

A. D. BACHE,
Executive Committee.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, vie)

REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE,

The Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution present the
following report of their operations and expenditures during the year
1855:

It was stated in the last report that the main or centre building
was nearly finished on the Ist of January, 1855. Since then the
whole edifice has been completed, and the final report of the architect
approved by the committee. After the construction of the new lecture-
room, the east wing of the building was entirely unoccupied. It con-
sisted of a single room 75 feet long, 45 feet wide, and about 30 feet
high. This has been divided into two stories, the lower one princi-
pally consisting of a large room at present used for the reception and
distribution of all the articles of exchange, and also a depository of
the extra copies of the publications of the Institution. The upper
story is occupied by a suite of rooms for the accommodation of the
Secretary, in accordance with the original intention of the Board, as
expressed in their resolution fixing the compensation of that officer.
The fitting up of this wing was made under a separate contract with
Mr. Wm. Choppin, and the whole completed to the satisfaction of the
architect for $3,500. This sum includes both the finishing of the
large room below and the apartments of the Secretary above.

The grounds around the building have been kept in repair under
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, and it is hoped that an
appropriation by Congress will enable this officer to complete the de-
sign of Mr. Downing for the general improvement of the mall, and
the supply of specimens of our native forest-trees which may be used
for ornamental purposes.

The whole amount paid on account of the building during the last
year, including furniture and fixtures and grounds, is $19,312 87,
which added to the sum previously paid for the same objects as stated
in the last report, ($299,414 14,) will make $318,727 01. Of this
sum $308,184 49 are for the building and grounds ; and if to this we
add $4,569 10 due the contractor, and about $1,000 due on gas-fitting,
fixtures, &c., the whole amount expended on building and grounds,
exclusive of furniture, will be $313,753 59. The whole cost of the
building was at one time limited to $250,000 ; but this limitation was
made with the intention of finishing the interior of the main edifice
in wood and plaster. This plan was afterwards abandoned, and one
in which fire-proof materials were employed was substituted.

A statement on file from Capt. Alexander gives in detail the work
done and the payments made thereon from the time he took charge of
the work until its final completion. According to this, the whole
amount paid for completing the interior of the main building in fire-
proof materials is $79,684 17. This sum is much larger than his
original estimate ; the cause of the difference, as stated by himself,
being as follows:
74. TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF »

‘Tt is due in part to the rise in the prices of materials and labor, but
principally to the execution of many improvements which were not
originally contemplated, but which it was thought best to make during
the prosecution of the work. These improvements were the sewers
for drainage ; the cisterns for supplying water; the substitution of
stone for iron stairs; the making of new sashes for many of the win-
dows ; the strengthening and in part reconstruction of the roof of the
main building ; putting in copper gutters and leaders on the towers,
besides other alterations and additions tending to swell the cost of
the work.”’

So many changes had been made in the plan of finishing the in-
terior, and such different materials had been employed, that it was
impossible to be guided by the original bid of the contractor, and
therefore the committee were obliged to be governed entirely by the
estimate of the architect. They, however, took the precaution to sub-
mit his award to Capt. Meigs, superintendent of the Capitol exten-
sion, who, under the circumstances of the case, expressed his approval
of it.

Though the building is finished, an annual appropriation will be
required for repairs and the substitution on parts of the roofs of the
ranges and wings, of copper in place of tin.

Respectfully submitted :
RICHARD RUSH,
W. H. ENGLISH,
JNO. T. TOWERS,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Building Commuttee.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 75

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

TENTH ANNUAL SESSION.
WEDNESDAY, January 2, 1856.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their an-
nual meeting on the first Wednesday of January of each year, the
Board met this day in the Regents’ room at 12 o’clock m.

Mr. Rush was requested to take the chair.

The Secretary stated that, owing to the House of Representatives
not having elected a speaker, no Regents had yet been appointed to
fill the vacancies in the Board from that body.

There being no quorum present, the Board adjourned to meet on
Saturday, January 12th, at 12 m.

SATURDAY, January 12, 1856.

A meeting of the Board was held this day at 12 o’clock.

Present: Messrs. Mason, Rush, Totten, Bache ; Seaton, Treasurer,
and the Secretary.

There being no quorum present, the new Regents not yet having

been appointed, the Board adjourned to meet on Saturday, January
26th.

SATURDAY, January 26, 1856.

A meeting of the Board was held this day at 12 m.

Present: Messrs. Pearce, Mason, Rush, Totten, and the Secretary.

There being no quorum, the Board adjourned to meet at the call of
the Secretary, as soon as the vacancies should be filled by Congress.

SATURDAY, Marcu 1, 1856.
An adjourned meeting of the Board was held this day at 12 m.

Present: Messrs. Pearce, Mason, English, Warner, Totten; Seaton,
Treasurer, and the Secretary.
76 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.

The Secretary announced the election, by joint resolution of the
Senate and House of Representatives, of the Hon. Grorce HK. Baperr,
of North Carolina, and Professor Cornenrus C. Fruron, of Massa-
chusetts, as Regents to fill the vacancies occasioned by the death of the
Hon. Joun Macpnerson Berrien, and the resignation of the Hon.
Rurus CHoate.

Also, the appointment, by the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, of the Hon. W. H. Eneutsu, of Indiana, Hon. H. Warner,
of Georgia, and the Hon. B. Sranron, of Ohio, as Regents on the part
of the House.

Mr. Seaton, Treasurer, presented the statement of receipts and ex-
penditures for the year 1855, which was referred to the Executive
Committee.

The Secretary presented and read his report of the condition and
operations of the Institution for the past year, which was accepted.

It being announced by the Secretary that the Hon. J. Macpnzrsow
Berrien, one of the Regents, had departed this life since the last an-
nual session of the Board, Mr. Mason offered the following resolutions,
accompanying them with remarks suitable to the occasion:

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have
heard, with deep and sincere regret, that since their last annual meet-
ing, the Hon. J. Macpuerson Berntsen, late one of their associates, has
departed this life.

Resolved, That whilst deploring the severance of so enlightened
and able a coadjutor from the trust committed to the Regents of the
Institution, they sympathize with the country in the loss it has sus-
tained by the death of an eminent and virtuous citizen.

Resolved, That, in testimony of their high respect for the memory
of their late associate, the members of this Board will wear the custom-
ary badge of mourning for the period of thirty days.

Resolved, That these resolutions be entered upon the journal, and
a copy of them be transmitted to the family of the deceased.

The Board thenadjourned till Saturday, March 8th, at 11o’clocka.m,

SATUBDAY, Marcu 8, 1856.

The Board of Regents met at 11 o’clock a. m.

Present: The Chancellor, Hon. R. B. Taney, and Messrs. Pearce,
English, Warner, Totten, and the Secretary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and adopted.

Mr. English presented the report of the Building Committee for
the year 1855; which was read and adopted.

Mr. Pearce presented the annual report of the Executive Commit-
tee, containing an account of the finances, the receipts and expendi-
tures during the year 1855, the estimates for appropriations for 1856,
&c.; which was read and adopted.

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the following resolution was adopted :

Resolved, That, in order to give sufficient time to make up the
accounts for the year, the annual meeting of the Board shall hereafter
be held on the third Wednesday of January, instead of the first,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. vas

The Secretary presented a ietter from Joseph H. Patton, esq., of
New York, relative to the Wynn estate; which, after several docu-
ments relating to the subject had been read, was referred to Mr. Ma-
son, to whom former communications on this business had been sub-
mitted.

It was stated by the Secretary that Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs were
not desirous to retain in their hands the extra funds of the Institution ;
whereupon, after remarks as to the proper disposition of the money,
on motion of Mr. Warner, it was

Resolved, That the committee appointed on the 24th of February,
1855, be directed to inquire and report upon the propriety and man-
ner of permanently investing the money of the Institution now in the
hands of Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs.

The Secretary read a communication from Frederick Gotteri, of
Malta, received through the Department of State, relative to the es-
tablishment of a school for the instruction of persons in this country
in silk culture and manufactures.

On motion, the letter was referred to the Commissioner of Patents.

A communication from John Phillips, esq., assistant general secre-
tary of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, was
read, containing the following extract from the proceedings of that
body :
‘* A communication from Professor Henry, of Washington, having
been read, containing a proposal for the publication of a catalogue of
philosophical memoirs scattered throughout the Transactions of socie-
ties in Hurope and America, with the ‘offer of co- operation on the part
of the Smithsonian Institution, to the extent of preparing and pub-
lishing, in accordance with the general plan which might be adopted
by the British Association, a catalogue of all the American memoirs
on physical science, the committee approve of the suggestion, and
recommend that Mr. Cayley, Mr. Grant, and Professor Stokes, be
appointed a committee to consider the best system of arrangement,
and to report thereon to the council.”’

The Secretary having stated to the Board that a number of the
steamship and railroad : companies had granted special facilities to the
Institution, in forwarding its packages free of cost, and particularly
in granting a free passage to its agent sent to California to make col-
lections in natural history, &c.,

On motion of General Totten, the following resolution was adopted :

Resolved, That the Secretary, on the part of the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, return thanks to the United States Mail
Steamship Company, M. O. Roberts, president ; Pacific Mail Steam-
ship Company, W. H. Aspinwall, president ; South American Mail
Steamship Company, Don Juan Matheson, president; Mexican Gulf
Steamship Company, Harris & Morgan, agents ; and the Panama
Railroad Company, David Hoagley, president, for their liberality
and generous offices in relation to the transportation, without charge,
of articles connected with the operations of the Institution.

The Secretary read the following letter:
78 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Hamitton CoLincr, CLINTON,
Oneida County, N. Y., February 2, 1856.

To the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

The trustees of Hamilton College, in the State of New York, made,
on the 22d day of July, 1854, a contract with Messrs. C. A. Spencer
& Co., of Canastota, in the same State, for the construction of an
‘‘equatorial telescope of the first class, with all the mountings and
other incidents necessary and usual thereto.”’

There is a provision in this agreement, that ‘‘ when the telescope
and work are finished and put up in the observatory, the whole is to
be submitted to the examination of three men of science, to be agreed
upon by the parties, and their judgment and decision as to the char-
acter ot the telescope and the whole work, and whether the contract
has been fully performed on the pari of the builders, shall be final and
conclusive.”’

The instrument is now nearly completed. The diameter of the
object-glass is thirteen and one-half inches.

The undersigned, as a committee in behalf of the College, request
that the above-named examining board of scientific men may be ap-
pointed by your body. They ask this for the following reasons:

First. 'This telescope is the largest ever constructed in this country—
eonstructed in the face of many obstacles, with an adverse public
opinion. If it be equal to instruments made in Europe, its construc-
tion is a triumph of American genius in a hitherto untried field. The
contractors, if successful, deserve that their success should be made
known through some medium whose judgment shall be rigid and im-
partial, and shall have a character to be respected abroad as well as
at home.

Again. The funds for the construction of this instrument, and the
observatory to which it is attached, were contributed in various sums
by many persons interested in the advancement of science, and scat-
tered throughout the State of New York. ‘To these persons our in-
stitution pledged itself to secure a first-class instrument. The college
corporation desires to satisfy them by an announcement from an au-
thoritative quarter that it has faithfully fulfilled the trust, and that
the contractors have produced the exact instrument provided for in
the specifications of the contract.

Furthermore, as persons interested in the advancement of science,
and desirous that telescopes hereafter built in this country may be
thoroughly and satisfactorily tested, the undersigned, in behalf of the
college, would be glad to establish a precedent, which might lead the
purchasers of other astronomical instruments to submit the question
of their proper construction to your body, as being an institution cen-
tral in its position and national in its character.

We are authorized to state that the contractors join with the cor-
poration in this application.

Should this proposition be accepted by you, we would like to receive
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 79
notice to that effect, and of the names of the gentlemen who may be

selected as such committee,
CHARLES AVERY,
ORIN ROOT,
OTHNIEL 8S. WILLIAMS,
THEODORE W. DWIGHT,
Commiitee.

On motion of Mr. English, the following resolution was adopted :

Resolved, That the letter of the committee of the trustees of Hamil-
ton College be referred to Messrs. Bache, Totten, and Henry, with
authority to comply with the request contained in said letter.

The following letter from the corresponding secretary of the Amer-
ican Academy of Arts and Sciences was read:

A - A Asner an Az Va ARTD CIENCES,
JAMDERICAN “ACADEMY OF

Boston and Cambridge, Massachusetts, August, 1855.

My Denar Sir: The following extract from’the record of the annual
meeting in May last has just been furnished me by the recording sec-
retary :

“Professor Agassiz referred to the allusion in the librarian’s report
to the Smithsonian Institution, and expressed in strong language his
sense of the indebtedness of the scientific world to that Institution, for
its enlightened efforts to diffuse knowledge, particularly as a medium
of exchange of publications. In conclusion, he moved that the thanks
of the academy be presented to the Smithsonian Institution, for its effi-
cient agency in effecting for the academy its eachanges wih societies and
individuals, which was unanimously adopted.”’

I have great pleasure in forwarding to you the vote of the academy,
in obedience to its instructions.

And I remain, very respectfully, your obedient, faithful servant,

ASA GRAY,
Corresponding Secretary.
Professor Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, the 22d instant, at
11 o’clock a. m. :

SATURDAY, March 22, 1856.

The Board of Regents met this day, at 11 o’clock.

Present: Hon. R. B. Taney, the Chancellor, Messrs. Mason, Doug-
las, English, Warner, Totten, Towers ; Seaton, Treasurer, and the
Secretary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Mr. Mason stated that he had made an examination of the papers
referred to him relative to the Wynn estate.

After some remarks respecting the proper course to be pursued, on
motion of Mr. Douglas, it was
. Jtesolved, That Messrs. Mason and English be appointed a committee
to draught a bill, and present it to Congress at their discretion, ask-
80 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ing the authority for the Institution to receive funds or legacies, and.
for power to sue and be sued,

The Secretary presented the subject of the removal of the collection
of objects of natural history, now in the Patent Office, to the Smith-
sonian building.

The Secretary presented to the Board a manuscript work on bibli-
ography by Mr. Ludewig, which had originally been offered to the
Smithsonian Institution, but which Mr. Triibner, a liberal and intel-
ligent publisher in London, bad now undertaken to present to the
world at his own expense.

The following letter from Mr. Stone, of Washington, was read:

Mount Peasant,
Washington City, February 13, 1856.

Dzar Sm: Some time since I spoke to you of the propriety and ad-
vantage of procuring from Hurope copies in plaster of the best antique
and modern statues and bas-reliefs. Having since reflected on the
importance of cultivating a taste for the fine arts in our country, I now
communicate to you my views, knowing that the object will find in
you a zealous friend and advocate.

J am aware, to undertake what is required will subject you to some
trouble and opposition, owing to the absence of that knowledge, to
procure which your exertions are solicited.

As the country advances in science, the elegancies of life are in de-
mand ; decorations, ornaments, &c., in every fabric, find purchasers,
and the higher the state of refinement, the more is art required. To
meet this demand, it is requisite that we should have the advantage
of seeing what has already been done in sculpture to serve as a basis.
Thus, we may not only cultivate the talent of the artist, but the taste
of the consumer, and thus the arts will meet with proper encourage-
ment.

It is not expected that all who study from the models will acquire
equal eminence ; still all who work with zeal will be improved and
find employment in the various branches of trade that require culti-
vated talent, as in works of design, including the various factories for
using the loom for wool, cotton, or silk, potteries, including porcelain

ware, foundries, &c. Painters, architects, and sculptors are usually
thought to be those only benefited by schools of art; but it is not so:
they are a few among the thousands who will be prepared to give
beauty and elegance to every fabric of manufacture known in the
mechanic arts.

On examination it will be found that the cultivation of the art of
design will thus be of immense value to the country. Onapplication
being made by our minister in Rome, casts would be permitted to be
taken from the moulds in the possession of the government, the cost of
which would be trifling. The statues would decorate the Smithsonian
building, and many could be so placed as to appear as accessories to it.

If a school of design is formed, it may be independent of the Institu-
tion. But should the Smithsonian Institution deem it of sufficient
importance, and consider it as one of the means of diffusion of useful
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. , 81

knowledge among men, and grant an occasional lecture as on other
subjects, it would accomplish much, and Congress may be made to
feel that the interests of the country demand their fostering care in
regard to the arts. I think you will find that ours is the only gov-
ernment that has not seen and felt the importance to manufactures of
cultivating the fine arts. The great strife with manufacturers is, to
obtain elegance and beauty without interfering with durability.
Beauty and symmetry should be made essentials in the manufacture
of the simplest articles, as they may be attained without interfering
with more substantial qualities. Articles manufactured with elegance
and good proportion will always be preferred to those of only equal
strength and durability, of uncouth form. It is true that we may
manufacture from forms and patterns produced by the forethought and
liberality of other nations, and still be inferior to what our own genius
would produce, were the facilities of cultivation in the fine arts made
equal with those of other nations. The free institutions of our country
cause men to rely in a measure on their own resources, thus early de-
veloping and practising those inventive powers so peculiar to our peo-
ple. Weare not bound down by the local laws and prejudices of socie-
ties, as in the Old World. Here a man, if he pleases, is his own
carpenter, mason, or smith. His inquiring mind and ingenuity leads
him to undertake and accomplish what he desires. How little will be
required to cultivate talent, and produce men who will record the
history of their country in marble or imperishable bronze—in the
language of nature, always to be understood. Our monuments and
antiquities will not carry with them the odor ef royalty and nobility,
but torms of elegance and beauty.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM J. STONE.

Prof. Henry,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

The Secretary exhibited a new form of meteorological blanks. which,
he had prepared for the joint use of the Institution and the Patent
Office, and also a simple form of the rain-gage, of which a number
had been ordered for distribution to different parts of the country.
They are so constructed as to be readily transmitted by mail.

The Secretary presented the following resolutions, which had been
unanimously adopted by the Illinois State Board of Education, ata
meeting held in March last:

‘Whereas the Illinois State Board of Education concur in the
opinion of the necessity and importance of the meteorological observa-
tions to be made, in accordance with the system established by the
Smithsonian Institution, of simultaneous observations in every State
of this Union; and whereas that Institution has undertaken to col-
lect and digest all the observations which may be made on this conti-
nent; therefore,

‘¢ Resolved, That we will co-operate with said Institution in order
a Qpiain full and reliable reports from the various sections of this
porate.

‘* Resolved, That each member of this Board select some competent
6
82 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

and reliable person in his congressional district to take charge of the
observations in said district, and from time to time report the same to
the secretary of our Board,

“¢ Resolved, That a committee of four be appointed by the president
to memorialize the legislature for an appropriation to aid in the pur-
chase of a set of meteorological instruments for each congressional dis-
trict in our State.

“ Resolved, That be appointed actuaries, in behalf of
this Board, to collect and prepare specimens of the natural history
and products of our State, and to co-operate with that department of
the Smithsonian Institution.”

The blank in the last resolution was filled with the names. of Robt.
Kennicott, of Cook county; Dr. J. Niglas, of Peoria county; and
W.F.M. Arny, of Mchean county.

The Secretary also presented from the author a manuscript trans-
lation of a memoir on the origin of the human race, by Baron Muller,
of Marseilles, France.

He also exhibited a copy of the great work on Egypt by Lepsius,
presented to the library by the Prussian government; a very expen-
sive and valuable work on Russian antiquities, from the Imperial
Library at St. Petersburg ; a portfolio of colored engravings to illus-
trate the mosque of St. Sophia, Constantinople, from the Sultan ; ana
other valuable donations and articles received in exchange.

The Board then adjourned, to meet at the call of the Secretary, and
afterwards visited the different parts of the building.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 83

APPENDIX.

REPORT OF THE SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.*

The following is the report presented in the Senate on the 6th Feb-
ruary, 1855, by Judge Butler, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
to whom was referred the inquiry whether any, and if any, what, ac-
tion of the Senate is necessary and proper in regard to the Smithso-
nian Institution:

‘Tt seems to be the object of the resolution to require the committee
to say whether, in its opinion, the Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution have given a fair and proper construction, within the range
of discretion allowed to them, to the acts of Congress putting into
operation the trust which Mr. Smithson had devolved on the federal
government. As the trust has not been committed to a legal corpo-
ration subject to judicial jurisdiction and control, it must be regarded
as the creature of congressional legislation. It is a naked and hon-
orabie trust, without any profitable interest in the government that
has undertaken to carry out the objects of the benevolent testator.
Thg obligations of good faith require that the bequest should be main-
tained in the spirit. in which it was made. The acts of Congress on
this subject were intended to effect this end, and the question pre-
sented is this: Have the Regents done their duty according to the
requirements of the acts of Congress on the subject ?

“In order to determine whether any, and if any, what, action of
the Senate is necessary and proper in regard to the Smithsonian In-
stitution, it is necessary to examine what provisions Congress have
already made on the subject, and whether they have been faithfully
carried into execution.

‘¢The money with which this Institution has been founded was be-
queathed to the United States by James Smithson, of London, to
found at Washington, under the name of the ‘Smithsonian Institu-
tion,’ an establishment ‘for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.’ It is not bequeathed to the United States to be used
for their own benefit and advantage only, but in trust to apply to
“the increase and diffusion of knowledge’ among mankind generally,
so that other men and other nations might share in its advantage as
well as ourselves.

“¢ Congress accepted the trust, and by the act of August 10, 1846,
established an institution to carry into effect the intention of the tes-
tator. The language of the will left a very wide discretion in the
manner of executing the trust, and different opinions might very nat-
urally be entertained on the subject. And it is very evident by the

* Messrs. Butler, Toucey, Bayard, Geyer, Pettit, and Toombs.
84 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

law above referred to that Congress did not deem it advisable to pre-
scribe any definite and fixed plan, and deemed it more proper to con-
fide that duty to a Board of Regents, carefully selected, indicating
only in general terms the objects to which their attention was to be
directed in executing the testator’s intention.

‘«Thus, by the fifth section, the Regents were required to cause a
building to be erected of sufficient size, and with suitable rooms or
halls, for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of ob-
jects of natural history, including a geological and mineralogical
cabinet ; also a chemical Jaboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and
the necessary lecture-rooms. It is evident that Congress intended by
these provisions that the funds of the institution should be applied to
increase knowledge in all of the branches of science mentioned in this
section—in objects of natural history, in geology, in mineralogy, in
chemistry, in the arts—and that lectures were to be delivered upon
such topics as the Regents might deem useful in the execution of the
trust. And publications by the institution were undoubtedly neces-
sary to diffuse generally the knowledge that might be obtained ; for
any increase of knowledge that might thus be acquired was not to be
locked up in the institution or preserved only for the use of the citi-
zens of Washington, or persons who might visit the institution. It
was by the express terms of the trust, which the United States was
pledged to execute, to be diffused among men. This could be done
in no other way than by publications at the expense of the Institu-
tion. Nor has Congress prescribed the sums which shall be appro-
priated to these different objects. It is left to the discretion and judg-
ment of the Regents. 7

‘‘The fifth section also requires a library to be formed, and the eighth
section provides that the Regents shall make from the interest an ap-
propriation, not exceeding an average of twenty-five thousand dol-
lars annually, for the gradual formation of a library composed of val-
uable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge.

‘‘ But this section cannot, by any fair construction of its language,
be deemed to imply that any appropriation to that amount, or nearly
so, was intended to be required. It is not a direction to the Regents
to apply that sum, but a prohibition to apply more ; and it leaves it
to the Regents to decide what amount within the sum limited can be
advantageously applied to the library, having a due regard to the
other objects enumerated in the law.

‘“ Indeed the eighth section would seem to be intended to prevent the
absorbtion of the funds of the Institution in the purchase of books.
And there would seem to be sound reason for giving it that construc-
tion; for such an application of the funds could hardly be regarded as
a faithtul execution of the trust; for the collection of an immense
library at Washington would certainly not tend ‘to increase or dif-
fuse knowledge’ in any other country, not even among the country-
men of the testator ; very few even of the citizens of the United States
would receive any benefit from it. And if the money was to be so ap-
propriated, it would have been far better to buy the books and place
them at once in the Congress library. They would be more accepta-
ble to the public there, and it would have saved the expense of a costly

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 85

building and the salaries of the officers; yet nobody would have listened
to such a proposition, or consented that the United States should take
to itself and for its own use the money which they accepted as a trust
for ‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’

«This is the construction which the Regents have given to the acts
of Congress, and, in the opinion of the committee, it is the true one ;
and, acting under it, they have erected a commodious building, given
their attention to all the branches of science mentioned in the law, to
the full extent of the means afforded by the fund of the Institution,
and have been forming a library of choice and valuable books, amount-
ing already to more than fifteen thousand volumes. The books are,
for the most part, precisely of the character calculated to carry out the
intentions of the donor of the fund and of the act of Congress. They
are chiefly composed of works published by or under the auspices of
the numerous institutions of Hurope which are engaged in scientific
pursuits, giving an accountof their respective researches and of new dis-
coveries whenever they are made. These works are sent to the ‘Smith-
sonian Institution,’ in return for the publications of this Institution,
which aretransmitted to the learned societies and establishments abroad.
The library thus formed, and the means by which it is accomplished,
are peculiarly calculated to attain the object for which the munificent
legacy was given in trust to the United States. The publication of
the results of scientific researches made by the Institution is calculated
to stimulate American genius, and at the same time enable it to bring
before the public the fruits of its labors. And the transmission of
these publications to the learned societies in Europe, and receiving in
return the fruits of similar researches made by them, gives to each the
benefit of the ‘increase of knowledge’ which either may obtain, and
’ at the same time diffuses it throughout the civilized world. The
library thus formed will contain books suitable to the present state of
scientific knowledge, and will keep pace with its advance; and it is
certainly far superior to a vast collection of expensive works, most of
which may be found in any public library, and many of which are mere
objects of curiosity or amusement, and seldom, if ever, opened by any
one engaged in the pursuits of science.

“These operations appear to have been carried out by the Re-
gents, under the immediate superintendence of Prof. Henry, with
zeal, energy, and discretion, and with the strictest regard to economy
in the expenditure of the funds. Nor does there seem to be any other
mode which Congress could prescribe or the Regents adopt which
would better fulfil the high trust which, the United States have un-
dertaken to perform. No fixed and immutable plan prescribed by law
or adopted by the Regents would attain the objects of the trust. It
was evidently the intention of the donor that it should be carried into
execution by an institution or establishment, as it is termed in his
will. Congress has created one, and given it ample powers, but di-
recting its attention particularly to the objects enumerated in the
law ; and it is the duty of that Institution to avail itself of the lights
of experience, and to change its plan of operations when they are
convinced that a different one will better accomplish the objects of the
trust. The Regents have done so, and wisely, for the reasons above
86 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

stated. The committee see nothing, therefore, in their conduct which
calls for any new legislation or any change in the powers now exer-
cised by the Regents.

‘‘Wor many of the views and statements in the foregoing report the
committee are indebted to the full and luminous reports of the Board
of Regents. rom the views entertained by the committee, after an
impartial examination of the proceedings referred to, the committee
have adopted the language of the resolution, ‘that no action of the
Senate is necessary and proper in regard to the Smithsonian Institu-
tution ; and this is the unanimous opinion of the commuattee.’ ’”
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 87

LECTURES

DELIVERED AT THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

SUBSTANCE OF A COURSE OF LECTURES ON MARINE
ALG Zi

BY WILLIAM HENRY HARVEY,
‘OF THE UNIVERSITY OF DUBLIN.

{Professor Harvey visited this country for the*purpose of studying the marine Aige or
sea-weeds of our coast. Two parts of his work have been printed by the Smithsonian
Institution, and a third will appear soon after his retura from his explorations on the
ceasts of the Pacizic ocean.]

Among the plants which constitute the ordinary covering of the
ground, whether that covering be one of forests, peopled by vegetable
giants, or of the herbage and small herbaceous plants that clothe the
open country, we observe that the greater number—at least of those
which ordinarily force themselves on our notice—have certain obvious
ergans or parts: namely a root by which they are fixed in the ground,
and through which they derive their nourishment from the fluids of
the soil; a stem or axis developed, in ordinary cases, above ground ;
leaves which clothe that stem, and in which the crude food absorbed
by the roots and transmitted through the stem is exposed to the
influence of solar light and of the air; and, finally, special modi-
fications of leaf buds called flowers, in which seeds are originated and
brought to maturity. These seeds, falling from the parent plant,
endowed with an independent life under whose influence they germi-
nate, attract food from surrounding mineral matter; digest it ; organize
it, that is, convert it from dead substance into living substance ; form
new parts or organs from this prepared matter; and, finally, grow
into vegetables, having parts similar to those of the parent plant,
and similarly arranged.

This is the usual course of vegetation: seeds develop roots, stems,
and leafy branches; the latter at maturity bear flowers, producing
similar seeds, destined to go through a like course; and so on, from
one vegetable generation to another. But, with a perfect agreement
among seed-bearing plants in the end proposed and attained, there is
an endless variety of minor modifications through which the end is
compassed. All degrees of modification exist between the simplest
and most complicated digestive organs; in some, the root, stem, and
leaves are so blended together, that we lose the notion of distinct or-
38 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

gans, and in others the leaves are reduced to scales or spines, while
the stem and branches are expanded and become not merely leaf-like,
but actually discharge the functions of leaves. In the reproductive
organs or flowers, too, we find equal variety ; from the most elaborate
and often gorgeous structures to the simplest and plainest, till at last
we arrive at flowers, whose organization is so low that not only have
calyx and corolla disappeared, but the very seed-vessel itself is re-
duced to an open scale or is wholly absent. Yet in all these modifi-
cations it is merely the means that are varied ; the end proposed is as
efficiently attained by the simplest agency as by the most complex ; as
if the Creator had designed to show us plainly how it is the same to
Him to act by many or by few, by the most elaborate arrangement
when He wills it, and by the simplest when that is His pleasure.

In all the cases of which we have as yet spoken, seeds are the result
of the vegetable cycle; a seed being a compound body, containing an
embryo or miniature plant, having stem, root, and leaf already organ-
ized, and enclosed with proper coverings or seed coats. But some
plants do not produce such seeds. At least one-sixth of the vegetable
kingdom, perhaps more, are propagated by isolated cells (or spores)
cast loose from the structure of which they had formed a portion, and
endowed thenceforth with independent powers of growth and devel-
opment. Such are the reproductive bodies of the Ferns, the Mosses,
and all plants below them in the vegetable scale, concluding with the
large class to which our attention will now be confined—the Algew—
which of all are the lowest and simplest in organization.

The framework of every vegetable is built up of cells, little mem-
branous sacks of various forms, with walls of varying tenacity, empty,
or containing fluid or granular, organized matter, from which new
cells may be developed. Among more perfect plants there is, in dif-
ferent parts of the same individual, considerable variety in the form
and substance of the cells; those of the wood and of the veins of
the leaves being different from those of the soft part of the leaves,
and these again different from those of the skin which is spread over
the whole. But as we descend in the scale of organization, greater
and greater uniformity is found. Below the /’erns, no vascular tissue
and no proper wood-cells occur; and at last in the Algz, no cells
exist differing from those of ordinary parenchyma or soft cells, such
as compose the pulp of a leaf. Algae, then, together with Mosses,
Lichens, and Fungi, are termed cellular plants, in contradistinction
to Ferns and Flowering plants, which are denominated vascular,
Among the most perfect of the Alga, however, though the cells are
all of the same substance and nature, all parenchimatic, they are of
various forms and arrangement in different portions of the vegetable,
often keeping up a very perfect analogy with the double system of
arrangement—the vertical and horizontal, or woody and cellular sys-
tems—of higher plants. Thus the cells of the axis of the compound
cylindrical Algz are arranged longitudinally, like the wood-cells of
stems, while those of the periphery or outer coating of the same Algze
have a horizontal direction.

In the most perfect of such Alge the frame still consists of root,
stem, and leaves, developed in an order analogous to that of higher
plants. Passing from such, we meet with others gradually less and
¢ THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 89

less perfect, until the whole vegetable is reduced either to a root-like
body, or a branching naked stem, or an expanded leaf; as if Nature
had first formed the types of the compound vegetable organs so named
and exhibited them as separate vegetables ; and then, by combining
them in a single framework, had built up her perfect idea of a fully
organized plant. But among the Algw, we may go still lower in
vegetable organization, and arrive at plants where the whole body is
composed of a few cells strung together; and finally at others—the
simplest of known vegetables—whose whole framework is a single
cell. These are the true vegetable monads: with these we commence
the great series of the Alge at its lowest point, and proceeding yup-
wards we find, within the limits of this same series, all degrees of
complication of framework short of the development of proper flowers.
It is this progressive organization of the Alga which renders the
study of this portion of the vegetable world especially interesting to
the philosophical botanist, because it displays to him, as in a mirror,
something of that general plan of development which Nature has fol-
lowed in constructing other and more compound plants, in which her
steps are less easily traced. Fromits first conception within the ovule
to its full development, one of the higher plants goes through transform-
ations strictly analogous to stages of advancement that can be traced
among the Algz from species to species, and from genus to genus,
from the least perfect to the most perfect of the group. Hach Alga-
species has its own peculiar phase of development, which it reaches,
and there stops; another species, passing this condition, carries the
ideal plan a step further ; and thus successive species exhibit succes-
sive stages of advancement. ,

While their gradually’advancing scale of development renders the
study of these plants more interesting, it also increases the difficulty
of constructing a short and yet definite character, or diagnosis, which
will exclude every member of the group, and exclude species more
properly referable to the kindred groups of Licnens and Funer. I
shall not here attempt any such critical definition, but proceed to trace
the gradual evolution of the frond and of the organs of fructification
in the Algw, assuming that with the Atem are to be classed all Thallo-
phytes (or Cryptogamic plants destitute of proper axes, in the more
restricted view of that term) which are developed in water, or nour-
ished wholly through the medium of fluids, while all Thallophytes
that are erial and not parasitic are Licuens, and all that are erial
and parasitic are Funat.

Commencing then with Alge of the simplest structure, a large part
of them, belonging to the orders Diatomacece and Desmidiacee, con-
sist almost entirely of individual isolated cells. Each plant, or frond,
is formed of a single living cell; destitute therefore of any special
organs, and performing every function of life in that one universal
organ of which its frame consists. The growth of these simple plants
is like that of the ordinary cells of which the compound frame of
higher plants iscomposed. Nourishment is absorbed through the mem-
branous coating of the young plant (or cell), digested within its sim-
ple cavity, and the assimilated matter applied to the extension of the
céll-wall, until that has reached the size proper to the species. Then
the matter contained within the cavity gradually separates into two
90 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF ‘

portions, and at the same time a cell-wall is farmed between each por-
tion, and thus the original simple cell becomes two cells. These no
longer cohere together, as cells do in a compound plant, but each
hali-cell separates from its fellow, and commencing av independent
career, digests food, increases in size, divides at maturity, &c., going
again and again through a similar round of changes. In this way,
by the process of self-division, and without any fructification, a large
surface of water may soon be covered with these vegetable monads,
from the mere multiplication of a single individual.

These minute plants, (Diatomacee and Desmidiacee) from their
microscopic size and uniform and simple structure, are justly regarded
as at the base of the vegetable kingdom. Notwithstanding which
lowly position in the scale of being, they display an infinite variety
of the most exquisite forms and finely sculptured surfaces; so that
their study affords as much scope for the powers of observation as
does that of the creation which is patent to our ordinary senses.
These tribes are, however, omitted from this essay, because they have
been made the objects of special inquiry by Professor Bailey of West
Point, whose memoirs in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions are referred to for further information.

But Desmidiacee and Diatomacee are not the only Alge of this
simple structure. The lowest forms of the order Palmellacew, such
as the Protococcus or Red snow plant, have an equally simple organ-
ization. The blood-red color of Alpine or Arctic snow which has
been so often observed by voyagers, and which was seen to spread over
so vast an extent of ground by Captain Ross, in his first Arctic journey,
is due to more than one species of microscopic plant, and to some
minute infusorial animals which perhaps acquire the red color from
feeding on the Protococcus among which they are found. The best
known and most abundant plant of this snow vegetation is the Pro-
tococcus nivalis, which is a spherical cell, containing a carmine-red
globe of granulated, semi-fluid substance, surrounded by a hyaline
limbus or thick cell-wall. At maturity the contained red matter
separates into several spherical portions, each of which becomes
clothed with a membranous coat; and thus forming as many small
cells. The walls of the parent whose whole living substance has
thus been appropriated to the offspring, now burst asunder, and the
progeny escape. These rapidly increase in size until each acquires
the dimensions of the parent, when the contained matter is again
separated into new spheres; giving rise to new cells, to undergo in
their turn the same changes. And as, under favorable circumstances,
but a few hours are required for this simple growth and development,
the production of the red snow plant is often very rapid: hence the
accounts frequently given of the sudden appearance of a red color in
the snow, over a wide space, which appearance is ascribed by common
report to the falling of bloody rain or snow. In many such cases it
is probable that the Protococcus may have existed on the portion ot
soil over which the snow fell, and its development may have merely
kept pace with the gradually deepening sheet of snow. That this
plant is not confined to the surface of snow is well known; and Cap-
tain Ross mentions that in many places where he had an opportunity
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 91

of examining it, he found that it extended several feet in depth. It
has been found both in Sweden and Scotland on rocks, in places re-
mote from snow deposites ; and it probably lies dormant, or slowly
vegetates in such cases, waiting for asupply of snow, in which it grows
with greater rapidity.

The structure and development which I have described as charac-
terizing Protococcus, are strikingly similar to those of what are com-
monly considered minute infusorial animals, called Volvox ; the chief
difference between Protococcus and Volvox being that the latter is
clothed with vibratile hairs, by the rapid motion of which the little
spheres are driven in varying directions through the water. Many
naturalists, and some of high note, are now of opinion that Volvox and
its kindred should be classed with the Alga, and certainly (as we shall
afterwards see) their peculiar ciliary motion is no bar to this associa-
tion. Ido not pronounce on this question, because it does not im-
mediately concern our present subject, and because, in all its collat-
eral bearings, it requires more attentive examination than it has yet
undergone.

In Protococcus the cell of which the plant consists is spherical or
oval; in other equally elementary Algz the cell is cylindrical, and
sometimes lengthened considerably into a thread-like body. Such is
the formation of Oscillatorice. In Vaucherie there is a further advance,
the filiform cell becoming branched without any interruption to its
cavity ; and such branching cells frequently attain some inches in
length, and a diameter of half a line, constituting some of the largest
cells known among plants.

In all these cases each cell is a separate individual: such plants
are therefore the simplest expression of the vegetable idea. But even
in this extremest simplicity we find the first indication of the struc-
ture which is to be afterwards evolved. Thus in the spherical cell we
have the earliest type of the cellular system of a compound plant
developing equally in all directions ; and in the cylindrical cell, the
illustration of the vertical system developing longitudinally. These
tendencies, here scarcely manifest, become at once obvious when the
framework begins to be composed of more cells than one.

Thus in the genera nearest allied to Protococcus, the frond is a
roundish mass of cells cobering irregularly by their sides. From
these through Palmella and Tetraspora we arrive at Ulva, where a
more or less compact membranous expansion is formed by the lateral
cohesion of a multitude of youndish (or, by mutual pressure, polygonal)
cells originating in the quadri-partition of older cells; that is, by the
original ceils dividing longitudinally as well as transversely, thus
forming four new cells from the matter of the old cell, and causing
the cell-growth to proceed nearly equally in both directions. Start-
ing, therefore, from Protococcus, and tracing the development through
anim stages, we arrive in Ulva at the earliest type of an expanded

eaf,

In like manner the earliest type of a stem may be found by tracing
the Alge which originate in cylindrical cells. Here the new cells
are formed in a longitudinal direction only, by the bipartition of the
old cells. Thus, in Conferva, where the body consists of a number
92 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

of cylindrical cells, strung end to end, these have originated by the
continual transverse division of an original cylindrical cell. Such a
frond will continually lengthen, but will make no lateral growth ;
and consisting of a series of joints and interspaces, it correctly sym-
bolizes the stem of one of the higher plants, formed of a succession
of nodes and internodes. And the analogy is still further preserved
when such confervoid threads branch; for the branches constantly
originate at the joints or nodes, just as do the leaves and branches of
the higher compound plants. .

We have then two tendencies exhibited among Algee—the first, a
tendency to form membranous expansions, the symbols or types of
leaves; the second, a tendency to form cylindrical bodies or stems.
Among the less perfect Algze the whole plant will consist either of
one of these foliations, or of a simple or branched stem, But
eradually both ideas or forms will be associated in the same in-
dividual, and exhibited in greater or less perfection. We shall find
stems becoming flattened at their summits into leaves, and leaves, by
the loss of their lateral membranes, and the acquisition of thicker
midribs, changing into stems; and among the most highly organized
Algze we shall find leaf-like lateral branches assuming the form, and
to a good degree the arrangement of the leaves of higher plants. Not
that we find among Alge proper leaves, like those of phenogamous
plants, constantly developing buds in their axils ; for even where
leaf-like bodies are most obvious (as in the genus Sargassum,) they
are merely Phyllocladia or expanded branches, as may readily be
seen by observing a Sargassum in a young state, and watching the
gradual changes that take place as the frond lengthens. These
changes will be explaimed in the systematic portion of my work.

I shall now notice more particularly the varieties of habit observed
among the compound Alg; and first,

OF THE ROOT.

The root among the Algew is rarely much developed. Among
higher plants which derive their nourishment from the soil in which
they grow, and in Fungi which feed on the juices of organized bodies,
root-fibres, through which nourishment is absorbed, are essential to
the development of the vegetable. But the AJgs do not, in a general
way, derive nourishment from the soil on which they grow. We
find them growing indifferently on rocks «of various mineralogical
character, on floating timber, on shells, on iron or other metal, on
each other—in fine, on any substance which is long submerged, and
which affords a foothold. Into none of those substances do they emit
roots, nor do we find that they cause the decay, or appropriate to
themselves the constituents, of those substances. ‘They are nourished
by the water that surrounds them and the various substances which
are dissolved in it. On those substances they frequently exert a
very remarkable power, effecting chemical changes which the chemist
can imitate only by the agency of the most powerful apparatus.
They actually sometimes reverse the order of chemical affinity,
driving out the stronger acid from the salts which they imbibe, and
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 93

causing a weaker acid to unite with the base. Thus they decompose
the muriate of soda which they absorb from sea-water, partly freeing
and partly appropriating the chlorine and hydrogen; and the soda
is found combined in their tissues with carbonic acid.

A remarkable instance of the action of a minute Alga on a chemi-
cal solution was pointed out tome by Prof. Bache, as occurring in
the vessels of sulphate of copper kept in the electrotyping department
of the Coast Survey office at Washington. <A slender contervoid Alga
infests the vats containing sulphate of copper, and proves very
destructive. It decomposes the salt, and assimilates the sulphuric
acid, rejecting (as indigestible !) the copper, which is deposited round
its threads in a metallic form. It sometimes appears in great quan-
tities, and is very troublesome; but the vats had been cleaned a few
days before I visited them, so that I lost the opportunity of examining
more minutely this curious little plant. Most probably it is a spe-
cies of Hygrocrocis,* a group of Alge of low organization but strong
digestive powers, developed in various chemical solutions or in the
waters of mineral springs. All the Algz, however, which are found
in such localities are not species of Hygrocrocis, for several Oscillatorica
and Calothrices occur in thermal waters. Species of the former genus
are found even in the boiling waters of the Icelandic Geysers. Of
the latter, one species at least, Calothrix nivea, is very common in
hot sulphur springs, and I observed it in great plenty in the streams
running from the inflammable springs at Niagara.

But on whatever substance the Alga may feed, it is rarely obtained
through the intervention of a root. Dissolved in the water that
bathes the whole frond, the food is imbibed equally through all the
cells of the surface, and passes from cell to cell towards those parts
that are more actively assimilating, or growing more rapidly. The
root, where such an organ exists, is a mere holditast, intended to keep
the plant fixed to a base, and prevent its being driven about by the
action of the waves. It is ordinarily a simple disc, or conical expan-
sion of the base of the stem, strongly applied and firmly adhering to
the substance on which the Alga grows. This is the usual form
among all the smaller growing kinds. Where, however, as in the
eigantic Oar-weeds or Laminariw, the frond attains a large size,
offering a proportionate resistance to the waves, the central disc is
strengthened by lateral holdfasts or discs formed at the bases of side
roots emitted by the lower part of the stem; just as the tropical
Screw-pine (Pandonus) puts out cables and shrouds to enable its
slender stem to support the weight of the growing head of branches.
The branching roots of the Laminaria, then, are merely Fucus-discs
become compound : instead of the conical base of a /’wcus, formed of
a single disc, there is a conical base formed of a number of such discs
disposed in a circle. In some few instances, as in Macrocystis, the
grasping fibres of the root develop more extensively, and form a
matted stratum of considerable extent, from which many stems spring

= Perhaps the Hygrocrocis cuprica, Kutz, or some allied species ; but I had no opportunity
of examining a recent specimen, and the characters cannot be made out from a dried one.
94 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

up. This is a further modification of the same idea, a further exten-
sion of the base of the cone.

In all these cases the roots extend over flat surfaces, to which they
adhere by a series of discs. They show no tendency to penetrate
like the branching roots of perfect plants. The only instances of such
penetrating roots among the Algz with which I am acquainted, occur
in certain genera of Siphonee and in the Caulerpec, tropical and sub-
tropical forms, of which there are numerous examples on the shores
of the Florida Keys. These plants grow either on sandy shores or
among coral, into which their widely extended fibrous roots often
penetrate for a considerable distance, branching in all directions, and
forming a compact cushion in the sand, reminding one strongly of the
much divided roots of sea-shore grasses that bind together the loose
sands of our dunes. But neither in these cases do the roots appear to
differ from the nature of holdfasts, and their ramification and exten-
sion through the sand is probably owing to the unstable nature of
such a soil. It is not in search of nourishment, but in search of
stability, that the fibres of their roots are put forth, like so many
tendrils. We shall have more to speak of these roots in the proper
place, and shall now proceed to notice some of the forms exhibited

by—
THE FROND.

The frond or vegetable body of the compound Algz puts on a great
variety of shapes in different families, as it gradually rises from
simpler to more complex structures. In the less organized it consists
of a string of cells arranged like the beads of a necklace; and the
cells of which such strings are composed may be either globose or
cylindrical. In the former case we have a moniliform string or fila-
ment, and in the latter a filiform or cylindrical one. The term filament
(in Latin, filum) is commonly applied to such simple strings of cells,
but has occasionally a wider acceptation, signifying any very slender,
threadlike body, though formed of more than one series of cells.
This is a loose application of the term, and ought to be avoided. By
Kiitzing the term trichoma is substituted for the older word filum or
filament. Where the jilament (or trichoma) consists of a single series
of consecutive cells, it appears like a jointed thread ; each individual
cell constituting an articulation, and the walls between the cells form-
ing dissepiments or nodes, terms which are frequently employed in
describing plants of this structure. Where the filament is composed
of more series of cells than one, it may be either articulated or in-
articulate. In the former case, the cells or articulations of the
minor filaments which compose the common filament are all of equal
length ; their dissepiments are therefore all on a level, and divide the
compound body into a series of nodes and internodes, or dissepiments
and articulations. In the latter, the cells of the minor filaments are
of unequal length, so that no articulations are obvious in the com-
pound body. In Polysiphonia and Rhodomela may be seen examples
of such articulate and inarticulate filaments.

By Kiitzing the term phycoma is applied to such compound stems ;
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 95

and when the phycoma becomes flattened or leaf-like, a new term,
phylloma, is giver to it by the same author. These terms are some-
times convenient in describing particular structures, though not yet
generally adopted. The cells of which compound stems (or phyco-
mata) are composed are very variously arranged, and on this cellular
arrangement, or internal structure of the stem, depends frequently
the place in the system to which the plant is to be referred. A close
examination, therefore, of the interior of the frond, by means of thin
slices under high powers of the microscope, is often necessary, before
we can ascertain the position of an individual plant whose relations
we wish to learn. Sometimes all the cells have a longitudinal direc-
tion, their longer axes being vertical. Very frequently, this longi-
tudinal arrangement is found only towards the centre of the stem,
while towards the circumference the cells stand at right angles to
those of the centre, or have a horizontal direction. In such stems we
distinguish a proper avis, running through the frond, and a periphery,
or peripheric stratum, forming the outside layer or circumference.
Sometimes the axis is the densest portion of the frond, the filaments
of which it is composed being very strongly and closely glued to-
gether ; in other cases it is very lax, each individual filament lying
apart from its fellow, the interspaces being filled up with vegetable
mucus or gelatine. This gelatine differs greatly in consistence; in
some Alge it is very thin and watery, in others it is slimy, and in
others it has nearly the firmness of cartilage. On the degree of its
compactness and abundance depends the relative substance of the
plant ; which is membranaceous where the gelatine is in small quan-
tity; gelatinous where it is very abundant and somewhat fluid; or
cartilaginous where it is firm.

The frond may be either cylindrical or stem-like, or more or less
compressed and flattened. Often a cylindrical stem bears branches
which widen upwards, and terminate in leaf-like expansions, which
are of various degrees of perfection in different kinds. ‘Thus some-
times the leaf, or phylloma, is a mere dilatation; in other cases it is
traversed by a midrib, and in the most perfect kinds lateral nervelets
issue from the midrib and extend to the margin. These leaves are
either vertical, which is their normal condition, or else they are in-
clined at various angles to the stem or axis, chiefly from a twisting
in their lamina, the insertion of the leaf preserving its vertical posi-
tion. They are variously lobed or cloven, and in a few cases (as in
the Sea Colander of the American coast) they are regularly pierced,
at all ages, with a series of holes which seem to originate in some
portions of the lamina developing new cells with greater rapidity than
other parts, thus causing an unequal tension in various portions of the
frond, and consequently the production of holes in those places where
the growth is defective. Such plants, though they form lace-like
fronds, are scarcely to be considered as net-works. Net-like fronds
are, however, formed by several Algee where the branches regularly
anastomose one with another, and form meshes like those of a net.
Most species with this structure are peculiar to the Southern Ocean,
but in the waters of the Caribbean Sea are found two or three which
may perhaps yet be detected on the shores of the Florida Keys. In
96 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

one of the Australian genera of this structure (Clawdea) the net-work
is formed by the continual anastomosis of minute leaflets, each of
which is furnished with a midrib and lamina. The apices of the mid-
ribs of one series of these leaves grow into the dorsal portion of leaves
that issue at right angles to them, and as the leaves having longitudi-
nal and horizontal directions, or those that form the warp and weft
of the frond, are of minute size and closely and regularly disposed,
the net-work that results is lace-like and delicately beautiful.

In the Hydrodictyon, a fresh-water Alga, found in ponds in Europe
and in the United States, where it was first detected by Professor
Bailey near West Point, a net-like frond is formed in a different man-
ner. This plant when fully grown resembles an ordinary fishing-net
of fairy size, each pentagonal mesh being formed of five cells, and one
cell making a side of the pentagon. As the plant grows larger, the
meshes become wider by the lengthening of the cells of which each
mesh is composed. When at maturity, the matter contained within
each cell of the mesh is gradually organized into granules, or germs
of future cells, and these become connected together in fives while yet
contained in the parent cell. Thus meshes first, and at length little
microscopic net-works, are formed within cach cell of the meshes of
the old net ; and this takes place before the old net breaks up. At
length the cells of the old net burst, and from each issues forth the
little net-work, perfectly formed, but of very minute size, which, by
an expansion of its several parts, will become a net like that from
which its parent cell was derived. Thus, supposing each cell of a
single net of the Hydrodictyon were to be equally fertile, some myriads
of new nets would be produced from every single net as it broke up
and dissolved. In this way a large surface of water might be filled
with the plant in a single generation.

The manner of growth of the frond is very various in the different
families. In some, the body lengthens by continual additions to its
apex, every branch being younger the further removed it is from the
base ; that is, the tips of the branches are the youngest parts. This
is the usual mode of growth in the Confervoid genera, and also ob-
tains in many of those higher in the series, as in the Fucacee and
many other Melanosperms. In the Laminariw, on the contrary, the
apex, when once formed, does not materially lengthen, but the new
growth takes place at the base of the lamina, or in the part where the
cylindrical stipe passes into the expanded or leaflike portion of the
frond. In such plants the apex is rarely found entire in old speci-
mens, but is either torn by the action of the waves or thrown off alto-
gether, and its place supplied by a new growth from below. In sev-
eral species this throwing off of the old frond takes place regularly at
the close of each season; the old lamina being gradually pushed off
by a young lamina growing under it. There are others, among the
filiform kinds, in which the smaller branches are suddenly deciduous,
falling off from the larger and permanent portions of the trunk, as
leaves do in autumn from deciduous trees. Hence specimens of these
plants collected in winter are so unlike the summer state of the spe-
cies, that to a person unacquainted with their habits they would appear
to be altogether different in kind. The summer and winter states of
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 97

Rhodomela subfusca are thus different. In Desmarestia aculeata the
young plants, or the younger branches of old plants, are clothed with
soft pencils of delicate jointed filaments, which fall off when the frond
attains maturity, and leave naked, thorny branches behind. Similar
delicate hairs are found in many other Algz of very different families,
generally clothing the younger and growing parts of the frond ; and
they seem to be essential organs, probably engaged in elaborating the
crude sap of these plants, and consequently analogous to the leaves of
perfect plants. This is as yet chiefly conjectural. The conjecture,
however, is founded on the observed position of these hair-like bodies,
which are always found on growing points, the new growth taking
place immediately beneath their insertion. In most cases these hairs
are deciduous ; but in some, as in the genus Dasya, they are persist-
ent, clothing all parts of the frond so long as they continue in vigor.
They vary much in form, in some being long, filiform, single cells ;
in others, unbranched strings of shorter cells, and in others dichoto-
mous, or, rarely, pinnated filaments.
Three principal varieties of

COLOR

are generally noticed among the Alge, namely, Grass-green or Her-
baceous, Olive-green, and fed; and as these classes of color are
pretty constant among. otherwise allied species, they afford a ready
character by which, at a glance, these plants may be separated into
natural divisions ; and hence color is here employed in classification
with more success than among any other vegetables. In the subdi-
vision of Algze into the three groups of Chlorosperms, Melanosperms,
and Rhodosperms, the color of the frond is, as we shall afterwards see,
employed as a convenient diagnostic character. It is a character,
however, which must be cautiously applied in practice by the student,
because, though sufficiently constant on the whole and under ordinary
circumstances, exceptions occur now and then ; and under special cir-
cumstances Algz of one series assume in some degree the color of
either of the other series.

The green color is characteristic of those that grow either in fresh
water or in the shallower parts of the sea, where they are exposed to
full sunshine but seldom quite uncovered by water. Almost all the
fresh-water species are green, and perhaps three fourths of those that
grow in sunlit parts of the sea ; but some of those of deep water are of
as vivid a green as any found near the surface, so that we cannot as-
sert that the green color is owing here, as it is among land plants,
to a perfect exposure to sunlight. Several species of Caulerpa, Ana-
dyomene, Codium, Bryopsis and others of the Siphonez, which are not
less herbaceous or vivid in their green colors than other Chloro-
sperms, frequently occur at considerable depths, to which the light
must be very imperfectly transmitted.

Algze of an olivaceous color are most abundant between tide-marks,
in places where they are exposed to the air, at the recess of the tide,
and thus alternately subjected to be left to parch in the sun, and to.
be flooded by the cool waves of the returning tide. They extend, how-
ever, to low-water mark, and form a broad belt of. vegetation.about
98 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

that level, and a few straggle into deeper water, sometimes into very
deep water. The gigantic deep-water Algae, Macrocystis, Nereocys-
tis, Lessonia, and Durvillea, are olive-colored.

’ Red-colored Alge are most abundant in the deeper and darker
parts of the sea, rarely growing in tide pools, except where they are
shaded from the direct beams of the sun either by a projecting rock,
or by over-lying olivaceous Algw. The red color is always purest
and most intense when the plant grows in deep water, as may be seen
by tracing any particular species from the greatest to the least depth
at which it is found. Thus, the common Ceramium rubrum in deep
pools or near low-water mark is of a deep, full red, its cells abun-
dantly “filled with bright carmine endochrome, which will be dis-
charged in fresh water so as to form a rose-colored infusion; but the
same , plant, growing in open, shallow pools, near high- water mark,
where it is exposed to the sun, becomes very pale, the color fading
through all shades of pink down to dull orange or straw-color. It
is observable that this plant, which is properly one of the red series
(or Rhodosperms,) does not become grass-green (or like a Chlorosperm)
by being developed in the shallower water, but merely loses its capa-
city for forming the red-colored matter peculiar to itself. So, also,
Laurencia pinnatifida, and other species of that genus, which are nor-
mally dark purple, are so only when they grow near low-water mark.
And as many of them extend into shallower parts, and some even
nearly to high-water limit, we find specimens of these plants of every
shade of color from dull purple to dilute yellow or dirty white.
Similar changes of color, and from a similar cause, are seen in Chon-
drus crispus, the Carrigeen or Lrish Moss, which is properly of a fine
deep purplish red, but becomes greenish or whitish when growing in
shallow pools. The white pobar therefore, which is prefer red in car-
rigeen by the purchaser of the prepared article, is entirely due to
bleaching and repeated rinsing in fresh water.

Many ‘Alge, both of the olive and red series, and in a less perfect
manner a few of the grass-green also, reflect prismatic colors when
growing under water. In some species of Cystoseira, particularly in
the European C’. ericoides and its allies, these colors are so vivid that
the dull olive-brown branches appear, as they wave to and fro in the
water, to be clothed with the richest metallic greens and blues,
changing with every movement, as the beams of light fall in new di-
rections on them. Similar colors, but in a less degree, are seen on
Chondrus crispus when growing in deep water ; but here the prismatic
coloring is often confined to the mere tips of the branches, which
glitter like sapphires or emeralds among the dark purple leaves. The
cause of these changeable colors has not been particularly sought
after. The surface may be finely striated, but it does not seem to be
more so than in other allied species, where no such iridescence has
been observed. In the Chondrus the changeable tints appear to
characterize those specimens only which grow in deep water, and
which are stronger and more cartilaginous than those which grow in
shallow pools.

Fresh water has generally a very strong action on the colors as
well as on the substance of marine Alew which are plunged into it.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 99

To many it is a strong poison, rapidly dissolving the gelatine which
connects the cells, and dissolving also the walls of the cells them-
selves; and that so quickly that in a few minutes one of these delicate
plants will be dissolved into a shapeless mass of broken cells and
slime. Many species which, when fresh from the sea, resist the action
of fresh water, and may be steeped in it without injury for several
hours, if again moistened after having once been dried, will almost
instantly dissolve and decompose. This is remarkably the case with
several species of Gigartinaand Iridea. The first effect of fresh water
on the red colors of Algx is to render them brighter and more clear.
Thus Dasya coccinea, Gelidium cartilagineum, Plocamium coccineum,
and others, are when recent of a very dark and somewhat dull red
color ; but when exposed either to showers and sunshine on the
beach, or to fresh-water baths in the studio of the botanist, become of
various tints of crimson or scarlet, according as the process is con-
tinued for a less or greater length of time. At length the coloring
matter would be expelled and the fronds bleached white, as occurs
among the specimens cast up and exposed to the long continued action
of the air; but if stopped in time and duly regulated, the colors may
be greatly heightened by fresh water. Some plants which are dull
brown when going into the press, come out a fine crimson ; this is the
case with Delesseria sanguinea, though that plant is not always of a
dull color when recent. Others, which are of the most delicate rosy
hues when recent, become brown or even black when dried. This is
especially the case in the order Rhodomelacee, so named from this
tendency of their reds to change to black in drying. The tendency
to become black, though it cannot be altogether overcome in these
plants, may often be lessened by steeping them in fresh water for some
time previous to drying. Hot water generally changes the colors of
all Algw to green, and if heat be applied during the drying process, an
artificial green may be imparted to the specimens; but such a mode
of preparation of specimens ought never to be practised by botanical
collectors, though it may sometimes serve the purpose of makers of
seaweed pictures.

THE FRUCTIFICATION

of the Algw will be more fully described in the systematic portion
of my work, when speaking of the various forms it assumes in the
different families. I shall at present, therefore, limit myself to a
very few general observations. The spore or reproductive gem-
mule of the Alge is in all cases a simple cell, filled with denser and
darker colored endochrome (or coloring matter) than that found in
other cells of the frond. Inthe simplest Algx, where the whole body
consists of a single cell, some gradually change and are converted
into spores, without any obvious contact with others: but far more
frequently, as in the Desmidiacee and Diatomacec, a spore is formed
only by the conjugation of two cells or individual plants. When
these simple vegetable atoms are mature, and about to form their
fructification, two individuals are observed to approach ; a portion of
tlie cell-wall of each is then extended into a tubercle at opposite
100 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

points ; these tubercles come into contact, and at length become con-
fluent; the dissepiment between them vanishes, and a tube is thus
formed connecting the two cavities together. Through this tube the
matter contained in both the old cells is transmitted and becomes
mixed; changes take place in its organization, and at length a spo-
rangium, or new cell filled with spores is formed from it, either in
one of the old cells, or commonly at the point of the connecting tube,
where the two are soldered together. Then the old empty cells or
plants die, and the species is represented by its sporangium, which
may remain dormant, retaining vitality for a considerable time, as
from one year to another, or probably for several years. These spo-
rangia, which are abundantly formed -at the close of the season of
active growth, become buried in the mud at the bottoms of pools,
where they are encased on the drying up of the water in summer, and
are ready to develop into new fronds on the return of moisture in
spring.

Many of the lower Algze form fruit in this manner, to which the
name conjugation is technically given. The thread-like Silk-weeds of
ponds and ditches (Zygnemata and Mougeotic, &c.,) are good exam-
ples of such a mode of fruiting. In these almost every cell is fertile,
and when two threads are yoked together, a series of sporangia will
be formed in one thread, while the other will be converted into a
string of dead, empty cells. Before conjugation there was, seeming-
ly, no difference between the contents of one set of cells and of the
other ; so that there is no clear proof of the existence of distinct
sexes in these plants, however much the process of fruiting observed
among them may indicate an approach to it.

The process of fruiting in the higher Algze appears to be very sim-
ilar: namely, spores or sporangia appear to be formed by certain cells
attracting to themselves the contents of adjacent cells; and in the
compound kinds, empty cells are almost always found in the neigh-
borhood of the fruit cells; but with the complication of the parts of
the frond, the exact mode in which spores are formed becomes more
difficult of observation. At length, among the highest Algz we en-
counter what appear to be really two sexes, one analogous to the
anther, and the other to the pistil of flowering plants. It would
seem, however, that it is not each individual spore which is fertilized,
as is the case in seed-bearing plants; but that the fertilizing influence
is imparted to the pistil or sporangium itself, when that body is in its
most elementary form, long before any spore is produced in its sub-
stance, and even when it is itself scarcely to be distinguished from an
ordinary cell. Antheridia, as the supposed fertilizing organs are
called, are most readily seen among the Mucacece, and will be described
under that family.

Besides the reproduction by means of proper spores,gmany Algw
have a second mode of continuing the species, and some even a third.
Among the simpler kinds, where the whole body consists of a single
cell, a fissiparous division, exactly similar to the fissiparous multiph-
cation of cells among higher plants, takes place. This cell, as has
been already mentioned, divides at maturity into two parts, which,
falling asunder, become separate individuals, Similar self-division
*
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 101

has been noticed among the lower Palmellacee, and in other imper-
fectly organized families. Such a mode of multiplying individuals is
analogous to the propagation of larger plants by the process of gem-
mation, where buds are formed and thrown off to become new indi-
viduals. When, as in the Lemna or Duckweed, the whole vegetable
body is as simple as a phanerogamous plant can well be, the new
frondlets or buds are produced in a manner very strikingly analogous
to the production of new fronds in Desmidiacec.

The third mode of continuing the species has been observed in many
Algz of the green series, in some of which sporangia are also formed,
but in others no fructification other than what I am about to describe
has been detected. This mode is as follows. In an early stage, the
green matter, or endochrome, contained within the cells of these Algee,
is of a nearly homogeneous consistence throughout, and semi-fluid 5
but at an advanced period it becomes more and more granulated.
The granules when formed in the cells at first adhere to the inner sur-
face of the membranous wall, but soon detach themselves and float
freely in the cell. At first they are of irregular shapes, but they
gradually become spheroidal. They then congregate into a dense
mass in the centre of the cell, and a movement aptly compared to that
of the swarming of bees round their queen begins to take place. One
by one these active granules detach themselves from the swarm, and
move about in the vacant space of the cell with great vivacity. Con-
tinually pushing against the sides of the cell wall, they at length
pierce it, and issue from their prison into the surrounding fluid, where .
their seemingly spontaneous movements are continued for some time.
These vivacious granules, or zoospores, as they have been called, at
length become fixed to some submerged object, where they soon begin
to develop cells, and at length grow into Alge similar to those from
whose cells they issued.

Their spontaneous movements before and immediately subsequent
to emission lead me to speak of the

MOVEMENTS OF ALG

in general. These are of various kinds, and of greater or less degrees
of vivacity. In some Algz a movement from place to place continues
through the life of the individual, while in others, as in the zoospores
of which I have just spoken, it is confined to a short period, often to
a few hours, in the transition state of the spore, after it escapes from
the parent filament, and until it fixes itself and germinates. Many
observers have recorded these observations, which are to be found de-
tailed in various periodicals.* I shall here notice only a few cases
illustrative of the various kinds of movement. The most ordinary of
these movements is effected by means of vibratile cilia or hairs, pro-
duced by the membrane of the spore, and which, by rapid backward
and forward motion, like that of so many microscopic oars, propel the
body through the water in different directions, according as the move-

*% See Annales des Sciences Naturelles ; Taylor's Ann. Nat. Hist. ; the Linnea, §e., various vol-

unies. 7
102 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ment is most directed to one side or the other. Sometimes the little
spores, under the influence of these cilia, are seen to spin round and
round in widening circles; but at other times change of direction,
pauses, accelerations, &c., take place during the voyage, which look
almost like voluntary alterations, or as if the spore were guided by a

rincinle of the nature of animal will) Henee many observers do
not hesitate to call these moving spores animalcules, and to consider
them of the same nature as the simpler infusorial animals.

This, as it appears to me, is a conclusion which ought not to be
hastily assumed, not merely taking into consideration the extremely
minute size of the little bodies to be examined, and the consequent
danger of our being deceived as to the cause of movement, and of its
interruption and resumption, but also remembering the facts ascer-
tained by Mr. Brown, of the movement of small particles of all mine-
ral substances which he examined. Many of the spores in question
are sufficiently small to come under the Brownian law, though others
are of larger size. Besides, if we regard the moving spores as animal-
cules, we must either adopt the paradox that 2 vegetable produces an
animal, which is then changed into a vegetable, and the process re-
peated through successive generations, every one of these vegetables
having been animal in its infancy; or else, notwithstanding their
strongly-marked vegetable characteristics, we must remove to the ani-
mal kingdom all Algz with moving spores.

Neither of these violent measures is necessary, if we admit that
mere motion, apart from other characters, is no proof of animality.
Though motion under the control of a will be indeed one of the char-
ter privileges of the higher animals, we see it gradually reduced as
we descend in the animal scale, until at last it is nearly lost alto-
gether. Long before we reach the lowest circles in the animal world,
we meet with animals which are fixed through the greater part of
their lives to the rocks on which they grow, and some of them have
scarcely any obvious movement on their point of attachment. In
some the surface, like that of the Alge spores, is clothed with cilia,
which drive floating particles of food within reach of the mouth ; in
others, even these rudimentary prehensile organs are dispensed with,
and the animal exists as a scarcely irritable flesh expanded on a frame-
work. This would seem to be the case in the corals of the genus
Fungia, if the accounts given of those animals be correct; while in
the sponges the animal structure and organization are still further
reduced, so as almost to contravene our preconceived notions of animal
will and movement. But the sponges can scarcely be far removed
from Fungia, nor can that be separated from other corals; so that,
though I am aware some naturalists of eminence regard the sponges
as vegetables, I cannot subscribe to that opinion, but rather view them
as exhibiting to us animal organization in its lowest conceivable type,
and parallel to vegetable organization, as that exists in the lowest
members of the class of Alge.

This hasty glance at the animal kingdom teaches us that voluntary
motion is a character variable in degree, and at length reduced almost
to zero within the animal circle. On the other hand, we know that
movements of a very extraordinary character exist among the higher
|

*
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 103

vegetables. Not merely the movement of the fluids of plants within
their cells, which has at least some analogy with the motion of ani-
mal fluids; but in such plants as the Sensitive plant, the Venus’s
Flytrap, (Dioncea,) and many others, movements of the limbs (shall I
call them ?) as singular as those of the Algz spores, are sufficiently
well known. And these movements are affected by narcotics in a
manner strikingly similar to the operation of similar agents on the
nervous system of animals. The common sensitive plant, indeed,
only shrinks from the touch, but in the Desmodium gyrans, a move-
ment of the leaves on their petioles is habitually kept up, as if the
plant were fanning itself continually, Such vegetable movements as
these strike us by their rapidity, but others of a like nature only
escape us by their slowness. Thus, the opening of the leaves of many
plants in sunlight, and their closing regularly in the evening in sleep;
the constant turning of the growing points towards the strongest
light, and other changes in position of various organs, are all vege-
table movements, which would appear as voluntary as those of the
Algee spores, if they were equally rapid. Their extreme slowness
alone conceals their true nature.

So, then, we find animals in which motion is reduced almost to a
nullity, and vegetables as high in the scale as the Leguminose, ex-
hibiting well-marked movements—facts which sufficiently establish
the truth of our position, that mere motion is no proof of animality.
But subtracting their movements from the Alge spores, what other
proof remains of their being animalcules? None whatever. They
do not resemble animalcules, either in their internal structure, their
chemical composition, or their manner of feeding; and their vegetable
nature is sufficiently marked by their decomposing carbonic acid,
giving out oxygen in sunlight, and containing starch.

In the Vaucheria clavata, one of the species in which spores moved
by cilia were first observed, the spore is formed at the apices of the
branches. The frond in this plant is a cylindrical, branching cell,
filled with a dense, green endochrome. A portion of the contained
endochrome immediately at the tips separates from that which fills
the remainder of the branch; a dissepiment is formed, and that por-
tion cut off from the rest gradually consolidates into a spore, while
the membranous tube enlarges to admit of its growth. The young
spore soon becomes elliptical, and at length, being clothed with a
skin and ready for emission, it escapes through an opening then
formed at the summit of the branch. The whole surface of the spore,
when emitted, is seen to be clothed with vibratile cilia, whose vibra-
tions propel it through the water until it reaches a place suitable for
germination. The cilia then disappear, and the spore becoming qui-
escent, at length develops into a branching cell like its parent. The
history of other moving spores is very similar, the cilia, however,
varying much in number in different species. Commonly there are
only two, which are sometimes inserted as a pair, at one end of the
spore, but in other cases placed one at each end.

There are other Algz in which vibratile cilia have not been observ-
ed, but which yet have very agile movements. Among these the
most remarkable are the Oscillatorie and their allies, which suldenly

104 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

appear and diappear in the waters of lakes and ponds, and sometimes
rise to the surface in such prodigious numbers as to color it for many
square miles. In Oscillatoria each individual is a slender, rigid,
needle-shaped thread, formed of a single cell, filled with a dense en-
dochrome which is annulated at short intervals, and which eventually
separates into lenticular spores. Myriads of such threads congregate
in masses, connected together by slimy matter, in which they lie, and
from the borders of which, as it floats like a scum on the water, they
radiate. Each thread, loosely fixed at one end in the slimy matrix,
moves slowly from side to side, describing short arcs in the water,
with a motion resembling that of a pendulum; and, gradually be-
coming detached from the matrix, it is propelled forward. These threads
are continually emitted by the stratum, and diffused in the water,
thus rapidly coloring large surfaces. When a small portion of the
matrix is placed over night in a vessel of water, it will frequently be
found in the morning that filaments emitted from the mass have
formed a pellicle over the whole surface of the water, and that the
outer ones have pushed themselves up the sides, as far as the moisture
reaches.

The Oscillatorie, though most common in fresh water, are not
peculiar to it. Some are found in the sea, and others in boiling
springs, impregnated with mineral substances. It has been ascer-
tained that the red color which gives name to the Arabian Gulf is
due to the presence of a microscopic Alga (Zvrichodesmium erythreum, )
allied to Oscillatoria, and endowed with similar motive powers, which
occasionally permeates the surface-strata of the water in such multi-
tudes as completely to redden the sea for many miles. The same or
a similar species has been noticed in the Pacific Ocean in various
places, by almost every circumnavigator since the time of Cook, who
tells us his sailors gave the little plant the name of ‘‘ sea sawdust.”’
Mr. Darwin compares it to minute fragments of chopped hay, each
fragment consisting of a bundle of threads adhering together by their
sides,

These minute plants move freely through the water, rising or sink-
ing at intervals, and when closely examined they exhibit motions
very similar to those of Oscillatoriec. There are several of such
quasi-animal-plants now known to botanists, and almost all belong
to the green series of the Algee, which are placed in our system at the
extreme base of the vegetable scale 8f being.

HABITAT.

The habitat or place of growth of the Alge is extremely various.
Wherever moisture of any kind lies long exposed to the air, Algee of one
group or other are found in it. I have already alluded to the Hygro-
crocis, so troublesome in vats of sulphate of copper, and many, per-
haps almost’ all other chemical solutions, become filled in time, and
under favorable circumstances, with a similar vegetation. The waters
of mineral springs, both hot and cold, have species peculiar to them.
Some, like the Red snow plant, diffuse life through the otherwise
barren snows of high mountain peaks and of the polar regions; and
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 105

on the surface of the polar ice an unfrozen vegetation of minute Algze
finds an appropriate soil. There are species thus fitted to endure
all observed varieties of temperature. Moisture and air are the only
essentials to the development of Algz. It has even been supposed that
the minute Diatomacee whose bodies float through the higher regions
of the atmosphere, and fall as an impalpable dust on the rigging of
ships far out at sea, have been actually developed in the air; fed on
the moisture semicondensed in clouds; and carried about with these
“lonely ’’’ wanderers.

When this atmospheric dust was first noticed, naturalists conjectured
that the fragments of minute Algew of which the microscope showed
it to be composed, had been carried up by ascending currents of air
either from the surface of pools, or from the dried bottoms of what had
been shallow lakes. But a different origin has recently been attribu-
ted to this precipitate of the atmosphere by Dr. F. Cohn, Professor
Ehrenberg, and others, who now regard it as evidence of the exist-
ence of organic life in the air itself! This opinion is founded on the
alleged fact, that atmospheric dust, collected in all latitudes, from the
equator to the circumpolar regions, consists of remains of the same
“species, and that certain characteristic forms are always found in it,
and are rarely seen in any other place. Hence it is interred that the
dust has a common origin, and its universal diffusion round the earth
points to the air itself as the proper abode of this singular fauna and
flora—for minute animals would seem to accompany and doubtless to
feed upon the vegetable atoms. If this be correct, and not an errone-
ous inference from a misunderstood phenomenon, it is one of the most
extraordinary facts connected with the distribution and maintenance
of organic life.

If Algze thus people the finely divided vapor that floats above our
heads, we shall be prepared to find them in all water condensed on
the earth. The species found on damp ground are numerous. ‘These
are usually of the families Palmellacew and Nostochacee. To the
latter belong the masses of semi-transparent green jelly so often seen
among fallen leaves on damp garden walks, after continued rains in
autumn and early winter. ‘These jellies are popularly believed to fall
from the atmosphere, and by our forefathers were called fallen stars.*
If such be their origin, we are tempted to address them, with Corn-
wall in King Lear:

‘¢Out, vile jelly! where is thy lustre now ?”’

for certainly nothing can well be less star-like than a Nostoc, as it
lies on the ground.

An appeal to the microscope reveals beauty indeed in this humble
plant, but gives no countenance to the popular belief of its meteoric
descent. It is closely related in structure to other species found under
dripping rocks and in lakes, and ponds, and the only reason for re-
garding it as an aerial visitant is the suddenness of its appearance
after rain. ?

’
* Other substances besides Nostocs occasionally get this name. Masses of undeveloped
frog-spawn, for instance, dropped by buzzards and herons, pass for meteoric deposits.
106 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

In certain moist states of the atmosphere, accompanied by a warm
temperature, the Nostoc grows very rapidly; but what seems a sudden
production of the plant has possibly been long in preparation unob-
served. When the air is dry the growth is intermitted, and the plant
shrivels up to a thin skin; but on the return of moisture this skin ex-
pands, heeames oelatinous, and continues its active life. And as this
process is repeated from time to time, it may be that the large jelly
which is found after a few days’ rain is of no very recent growth. A
friend of mine who happened to land in a warm dry day on the coast
of Australia, and immediately ascended a hill for the purpose of ob-
taining a view of the country, was overtaken by heavy rains; and was
much surprised to find that the whole face of the hill quickly became
covered with a gelatinous Alga, of which no traces had been seen on
his ascent. In descending the hill in the afternoon, on his return to,
the ship, he was obliged to slide down through the slimy coating of
jelly, where it was impossible to proceed in any other way. No doubt,
in this case, a species of Nostoc which had been unnoticed when shriv-
elled un had merely expanded with the morning’s rain.

Where water lies long on the surface of the ground, as happens in
cases of floods, it quickly becomes filled with Conferve or Silk-weeds,
which rise to the surface in vast green strata. These simple plants
grow with great rapidity, using up the materials of the decaying vege-
fation which is rotting under the inundation, and thus they in great
measure counteract the ill effects to the atmosphere of such decay.
When the water evaporates, their filaments, which consist of delicate
membranous cells, shrivel up and become dry, and the stratum of
threads, now no longer green, but bleached into a dull white, forms a
coarsely interwoven film of varying thickness, spread like great sheets
of paper over the decaying herbage. This natural pape”, which has
also been described under the name of water flannel, sometimes covers
immense tracts, limited only by the extent of the flood in whose waters
it originated.

But though Algz abound in all reservoirs of fresh water, the
waters of the sea are their peculiar home; whence the common name
‘‘Sea-weeds,’’ by which the whole class is frequently designated. Very
few other plants vegetate in the sea, sea-water being fatal to the life of
most seeds; yet some notable exceptions to this law (in the case of the
cocoanut, mangrove, and a few other plants) serve a useful purpose
in the economy of nature.

The sea in all explored latitudes has a vegetation of Algwe. Towards
the poles, this is restricted to microscopic kinds, but almost as soon as
the coast rock ceases to be coated with ice, it begins to be clothed with
Fuct, and this without reference to the mineral constituents of the
rock, the Fucus requiring merely a resting place. Sea-weeds rarely
grow on sand, unless when it is very compact and firm. There are,
therefore, submerged sandy deserts, as barren as the most cheerless of
the African wastes. And when such barrens interpose, along a con-
siderable extent of coast, between one rocky shore and another, they
oppose a strong bagrier to the dispersion of species, though certainly
not so strong as ; the aerial deserts ; because the waters which flow over
submarine sands will carry the spores of the Algz with less injury
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTSTUTION. 107

than the winds of the desert will convey the seeds of plants from one
oasis to another. It cannot, however, be doubted that submerged
sands do exercise a very material influence on the dispersion of Alge,
or their

AROGRAPHTICAT. DISTRIRUTION.

Climate has an effect on the Alge as upon all other organic bodies,
though its influence is less perceptible in them than in terrestrial
plants, because the temperature of the sea is much less variable than
that of the air. Still, as the temperature of the ocean varies with the
latitude, we find in the marine vegetation a corresponding change,
certain groups, as the Laminaric, being confined to the colder regions
of the sea; and others, as the Sargassa, only vegetating where the
mean temperature is considerable.

These differences of temperature and corresponding changes of ma-
rine vegetation, which are mainly dependent on actual distance from
the equatorial regions, are considerably varied by the action of the
great currents which traverse the ocean, carrying the waters of the
polar zone towards the equator, and again conveying those of the torrid
zone ints the higher Jatitudes. Thus, under the influence of the warm
waters of the Gulf Stream, Sargassum is found along the east coast of
America as far as Long Island sound (lat. 44°.) And again, the
cold south-polar current which strikes on the western shores of South
America, and runs along the coasts of Chili and Peru, has a marked
influence on the marine vegetation of that coast, where Lessonia, Ma-
crocystis, Durvillea, and Iridea, characteristic forms of the marine
flora of Antarctic lands, approach the equator more nearly than in any
other part of the world.

The influence of currents of warmer water is also observable in the
submarine flora of the west coast of Ireland, where we find many Algee
abounding in lat. 53°, which elsewhere in the British Islands are found
only in the extreme south points of Devon and Cornwall. These, and
other instances which might be given, are sufficient to show that aver-
age temperature has a marked influence in determining the marine
vegetation of any particular coast.

Seasons of greater cold or heat than ordinary have, as might be in-
ferred, a corresponding action. This is particularly noticeable among
the smaller and more delicate kinds which grow within tide marks,
and are found in greater luxuriance or in more abundant fruit in a
warm than in acold season. And the difference becomes more strongly
marked when the particular species is growing near the northern limit
of its vegetation, Thus in warm summers, Padina Pavonia attains,
on the south coast of England, a size as large as it does in sub-trop-
ical latitudes ; while in a cold season it is dwarf and stunted.

In speaking of the difference in color of Algee, I have already noticed
the prevalence of particular colors at different depths of water. A cor-
responding change of specific form takes place from high to low water
mark ; and as the depth increases, the change is strikingly analogous
to what occurs among land plants at different elevations above the sea.
Depth in the one case has a correspondent effect to height in the other ;
108 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

and the Ale of deep parts of the sea are to those of tidal rocks, as
alpine plants are to littoral ones. In both cases there is a limit to
the growth of species; each aerial species having a line above which
it does not vegetate, and each marine one a line beyond which it does
not descend. And as, at last, we find none but the least perfect lichens
clothing the rocks of high mountains, so in the sea beyond a moderate
depth are found no Alge of higher organization than the Diatomacee.

These latter atomic plants would appear to exist in countless numbers
at very extraordinary depths, having beenconstantly brought up by the
lead in the deep-sea soundings recorded in Sir James Ross’s Antarctic
voyage. But ordinary sea plants cease to vegetate in comparatively
shallow water, long before animal life ceases. The limits have not
been accurately ascertained, and are probably much exaggerated as
commonly given in books.

Lamouroux speaks of ordinary Alge growing at 100 to 200 fathoms,
but we have no exact evidence of the existence of these plants at this
great depth. The Macrocystis, the largest Alga known, has some-
dimes been seen vegetating in 40 fathoms (Hook. Fl. Ant. vol. 2, p.
464) water, while its stems not merely reached the surface, but rose at
an angle of 45° from the bottom, and streamed along the waves for a
distance certainly equal to several times the length of the ‘‘ Hrebus;’’
data which, if correct, give the total length of stem at about 700
feet. Dr. Hooker, however, considers this an exceptional case, and
gives from eight to ten fathoms as the utmost depth at which sub-
merged seaweed vegetates in the southern temperate and Antarctic
ocean ; a depth which is probably much exceeded in the tropics, and
which is at least equalled by Alge of the north temperate zone.

Humboldt, in his ‘‘ Personal Narrative,’’ mentions having dredged
a plant to which he gave the name Fucus vitifolius, (probably a
Codium or Flabellaria) in water 32 fathoms deep, and remarks that,
notwithstanding the weakening of the light at that depth, the color
was of as vivid a green as in Alge growing near the surface. I
possess a specimen of Anadyomene stellata dredged at the depth of 20
fathoms, in the Gulf of Mexico, by my venerable friend the late Mr.
Archibald Menzies, and it is as green as specimens of the same plant
collected by me between tide marks at Key West, and is much more
luxuriant.

Professor Edward Forbes, whose admirable report on the Aigean
Sea should be consulted by all persons interested in the distribution of
life at various depths, dredged Constantinea reniformis, Post. and
Rupr. in 50 fathoms, the greatest depth perhaps on record, as accu-
rately observed, at which ordinary Algee vegetate. I say, ordinary
Alge, for it will be remembered that Diatomacez exist in the pro-
found abysses of the ocean, as far as we are acquainted with them.

And besides these microscopic vegetables, Algz of a group called
Nullipores or Corallines (Corallinacee), long confounded with the
Zoophytes, become more numerous as other Alge diminish, until they
characterize a zone of depth where they form the whole obvious vege-
tation. These remarkable plants assimilate the muriate of lime of
seawater and form a carbonate in their tissues, which from the great
abundance of this deposit become stony. ‘The less perfect Nullipores
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 109

ave scarcely distinguishable, by the naked eye, from any ordinary
calcareous incrustation, and strongly resemble the efflorescent forms,
like cauliflowers, seen so frequently in the sparry concretions of lime-
stone caverns. Others, more perfect, become branched like corals ;
and the most organized of the group, or the true corallines, have sym-
metrical, articulated fronds. This stony vegetation affords suitable
food to hosts of zoophytes and mollusca, which require lime for the
construction of their skeletons or shells, and it probably extends to a
depth as great as such animals inhabit.

When the same species is found at different depths, there is gener-
ally a marked difference between the specimens. Thus, when an indi-
vidual plant grows either in shallower or in deeper water than that
natural to the species, it becomes stunted or otherwise distorted. I
have noticed in many species (as in Plocamium coccineum, Dasya
coccinea, Laurencia dasyphylla, various Hypnece, and many others)
that the specimens from deep water have divaricated branches and
ramuli, and a tendency to form both hooks and discs or supplement-
ary roots, from various points of the stem and branches. Sometimes
the outward habit is so completely changed by the production of
hooked processes and discs, that it is difficult to discover the affinity
of these distorted forms; and such specimens have occasionally been
unduly elevated to the rank of species.

When water of great depth intervenes, on a coast between two
shallower parts of the sea, it frequently limits the distribution of
species, acting as a high mountain range would in the distribution of
land plants, but in a far less degree; as it is obviously easier for the
spores of the Alge to be floated across the deep gulf, than for the
seeds of land plants to pass the snowy peaks of a mountain.

The intervention of sand, already alluded to, is a far greater bar-
rier, because sandy tracts are usually of much greater extent than
submarine obstacles of any other kind. To the prevalence of a sandy
coast, in a great measure probably, is owing the very limited distribu-
tion of the /ucacew on the eastern shores of North America, where
plants of this family are scarcely found from New York to Florida.
Since the erection of a breakwater at Sullivan’s Island, 8. C., many
Algz not before known in those waters have, according to Pro-
fessor L. R. Gibbes’s authority, made their appearance, but none of
the Fucacee are yet among them. In due time Sargassum vulgare
will probably arrive from the south.

Some attempt has been made to divide the marine flora into separate
regions, the particulars of which I have detailed elsewhere.* In the
descriptive portion of my work I shall notice the distribution of the
several families, where it offers any marked peculiarity, and I shall
at present confine myself to some remarks on the distribution of Alge .
along the eastern and southern shores of the United States; here re-
cording the substance of some verbal observations which I made at
the Meeting of the American Association, held in Charleston, in
March, 1850.

% Manual of British Marine Alge, Introd., p. xxxyi et seq. ed. 2.
110 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

EASTERN SHORES OF NORTH AMERICA.

In comparing the marine vegetation of the opposite shores of the
northern Atlantic, a great resemblance is observed between the ordi-
nary seaweeds that clothe the rocks on the eastern and western sides;
with this difference, that the species do not reach so high a latitude
on the American shore as on the European. The reason of this will
be readily understood by inspecting a physical map of the Atlantic, on
which Humboldt’ sisothermal lines, or linesof meanannual temperature,
are laid down. For then it will at once be seen that there is a very con-
siderable bending of the isothermal lines in favor of the continent of Hu-
rope. Thus the same line that runs through New York, in lat. 41°,
strikes the shores of Europe in the north of Ireland, lat. 54°. And
though there is less difference in mean temperature in the southern
parts of the continents than in the northern, still there is a marked
difference throughout.

With respect to vegetation, Laminaria longicruris is commou on
the American shore—at least as far south as Cape Cod (lat. 42°);
while on the European it has not been found south of Norway, save
some stray, waterworn stems occasionally cast on the north of Ireland
or Scotland.

Rodymenia crystata, so very abundant in Boston harbor, (42° 30‘)
where it enters largely into the composition of seaweed pictures, is
rarely found in Europe south of Iceland and the northern parts of
Norway ; its most southern limit being in the Frith of Forth, (56°),
where it has been found but once or twice.

Delesseria hypoglossum has not been observed in America north of
Charleston, (lat. 33°), while in Europe it occurs in Orkney, (lat. 59°),
and is in great profusion and luxuriance on the north coast of Ireland
in lat. 55°. The distribution of this species on the American shore
is very anomalous if Charleston be its northern limit, for it certainly
extends southward at least to Anastasia Island, (lat. 29° 50’). In
the British seas it is most luxuriant on the Antrim shore, (55°), where
its fronds are sometimes three feet in length ; southern specimens are
generally much smaller, and in Devonshire it rarely measures more
than three or four inches, which is the average size of specimens from
the south of Europe, as well as of those found in Charleston harbor.
If we are correct in limiting the American distribution of this species
northward by Charleston, we have the remarkable fact that the great-
est latitude attained by Del. hypoglossum in the northwestern Atlantic
is less by about 5° or 6° than the southern limit of the same species
on the northeastern, and by about 27° than the northern boundary of
its distribution. 'This indicates a range which the isothermal lines
can scarcely explain; for the line which runs through Charleston
strikes the coast of Spain. It is the more remarkable in this species,
because the genus Delesseria is most numerous inthe colder parts of the
sea, its finest species being natives of Northern Hurope and of Cape
Horn and the Falkland Islands; and, as we have seen, this very D.
hypoglossum is nowhere of greater size or in greater plenty than in
latitude 55° on the Irish coast.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 111

It is different with Padina Pavonia, itself a tropical form, and be-
longing to a group peculiarly lovers of the sun. We are not sur-
rised that in America this plant should not grow further north than
the Keys of Florida, although, under some peculiarly favorable cir-
cumstances, it attains a limit 27° further north, on the south coast of
England ; for in the land-vegetation of the two coasts there is some-
thing like an approach to similar circumstances, oranges and cilrons
being occasionally ripened in the open air in Devonshire, and MMag-
nolia grandiflora attaining anarborescent size. The remaining marine
vegetation of the Florida Keys, as we shall presently see, has a greater
resemblance to that of the Mediterranean than to that of the British
coasts ; and this is more in accordance with the land floras, in which
palm trees are a feature in both countries.

Probably one-half the species of Algze of the east coast of North
America are identical with those of Hurope—a very large portion
when we contrast it with the strongly marked difference between the
marine animals of the two shores ; the testacea, and to a great extent
even the fishes of the two continents, being dissimilar. The Euro-
pean species, on the same length of coast, are greatly the more nu-
merous, which appears to be owing to the prevalence of sands, nearly
destitute of Alge, along so great a length of the American shore,
and particularly along that portion which, from its latitude, ought to
produce the greatest variety of Algz, were the local circumstances
favorable to their growth.

As Algee are little indebted for nourishment to the soil on which
they grow, merely requiring a secure resting place and a sheltered
situation, their number generally bears a proportion to the amount of
indented rocks that border the coast. Stratified rocks are more favorable
to their growth than loose boulders or stones; but if the upper surface
be smooth without cavities, it is either swept by the waves too rapidly
to allow the growth of a vigorous vegetation ; or, in quiet places, it
becomes uniformly clothed with some of the Fuci, or other social spe-
cies, which cover the exposed surface with a large number of individ-
uals, to the destruction of more delicate species. The rocks, then,
most adapted for Algz are those in which, here and there, occur deep
cavities affording shelter from the too boisterous waves. In these, on
the recess of the tide, a tide pool or rock basin preserves the delicate
fronds from the action of the sun. The rare occurrence of such situ-
ations on the American coast is doubtless a reason of the comparative
poverty of the marine flora.

This comparative poverty is observable even in the common littoral
Fuci or Rock Kelp. In Northern Europe, besides several rarer kinds,
Six species (namely Fucus serratus, vesiculosus, nodosus, canaliculatus ;
Halidrys siliquosa ; and Himanthalia lorea) are extremely common,
four of them at least being found on every coast. In America, Fucus
vesiculosus and nodosus alone are commonly dispersed ; F’. serratus and
canaliculatus have not yet been detected ; and the Halidrys and [i-
manthalia rest on very uncertain evidence: so that of the siz com-
mon European kinds, only évo are certainly found in America. This
deficiency in /’ucacece is, in degree, made up for in Laminariacee, of
112 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

which family several are peculiar to the American shore, the most re-
markable of which is the Agarwm or Sea Colander.

Among the red Alge (or Ehodosperms), species with expanded,
leaf-like fronds are proportionably less numerous than on the Kuro-
pean side. Delesseria sanguinea is absent on the American shore,
where its place is supplied by D. Americana, a species of equally bril-
liant coloring, but lower in organization, connecting Delesseria with
Nytophyllum. This latter genus, of which there are so many fine
European species, is scarcely knownin North America, <A few scraps
of Nytophylla (almost too imperfect to describe), picked up at the
mouth of the Wilmington river, N. C., and at Key West, are all the
evidence we at present possess of the existence of that type of form
on the North American shore. Plocamiwm coccineum, so abundant in
Europe, and which is also widely dispersed in the Southern ocean,
extending from Cape Horn eastward to New Zealand, has not, that I
am aware of, been found on the American Atlantic coast, where its
place seems taken by the equally brilliant Rhodymenia_cristata.
Ceramium rubrum is as common on the American as on the European
coast, and many of the other common American Lthodosperms are na-
tives of both continents.

The Green Alga (Chlorosperms) are still more alike; but several of
the American Cladophore (not yet fully explored) seem to be peculiar.
Codium tomentosum, which is common to the shores of Europe from
Gibraltar, in lat. 36°, to Orkney in lat. 60°, and perhaps further north,
has yet been found only on the Florida Keys, (lat. 24°). Judging
from its distribution in other parts of the world, particularly in the
Pacific and Southern Oceans, one would have expected to find it all
along the East coast of North America.

Perhaps it would be premature to indicate regions of Alge into
which the Eastern and Southern sheres of the North American States
may be divided, a few points only having as yet been carefully ex-
plored. Halifax harbor, Massachusetts Bay, Long Island Sound at
several points from Greenport to New York, New York harbor, and
the neighborhood of Charleston, 8. C., are the chief points at which
the materials for my essay have been collected on the Hast coast. Our
knowledge of southern Algz is at present derived chiefly from a par-
tial examination of the Florida Keys, by Dr. Wurdemann, Professor
Tuomey, Dr. Blodgett and myself. I think it probable, however,
that future researches will indicate four regions of distribution, as
follows :

Ist. Coast NortH oF Care CoD, EXTENDING PROBABLY To GREENLAND.
Among the characteristic forms of this region are the great Laminaria,
particularly L. Longicruris, one of the largest Alge on the coast, and
Agarum Turneri and pertusum. Several of the rarer Fucacez seem
also to be confined to this district. One of the most abundant and
characteristic species of this tract is hodymenia cristata, which has
not to my knowledge been found farther south than Cape Cod. Speci-
mens said to have come from Staten Island have been shown to me,
but the evidence on which the habitat of these rests is not satisfactory,
and none of the Brooklyn and New York Algologists (a numerous
and indefatigable band) have yet detected the plant in their harbor.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 113

Ptilota plumosa is also a plant of this region, the only species (as far
as I know) that is met with in Long Island Sound being P. sericea,
Gm. Rhodomelce are more abundant here than in the Sound, but are
not limited to this division; Odonthalia (a peculiarly nothern form)
has been seen only at Halifax. Dumontia ramentacea, so abundant at
Iceland, is found also at Newfoundland, and near Halifax, where I
gathered it plentifully. Of this plant I possess a single specimen,
picked up by Miss Frothingham on Rye Beach, New Hampshire. All
the species I have mentioned are Arctic forms confined in the European
waters to very high latitudes, and all appear to vegetate nearly as far
south as Cape Cod, to which limits they are almost all confined. The
Marine flora of this region as a whole bears a resemblance to that of
the shores of Iceland, Norway, Scotland, and the North and North
West of Ireland.

9d. Lone Istanp Sounn, including under this head New York har-
bor and the sands of New Jersey.

The natural limit of this region on the south is probably Cape Hat-
teras, but after passing New York the almost unbroken line of sand is
nearly destitute of Alge. Ihave not received any collection of sea
plants made between Long Branch and Wilmington. In comparing
the plants of the sound with those of our Ist region, a very marked
difference is at once seen. We lose the Arctic forms, dgarum, hod.
eristata, Odonthalia, Dumontia ramentacea, and Ptilota plumosa, whose
place is supplied by Sargassum, of which genus two species are found
at Greenport and at other points in the Sound; by various beautiful
Callithamnia and Polysiphonic ; and by abundance of Delesseria Ameri-

cana and Dasya elegans. Those two latter plants are not limited to’

this region, but are greatly more abundant here than north of Cape
Cod. Del. Americana seems almost to carpet the harbor of Green-
port, and is equally abundant in various points in the Sound, and
Dasya elegans grows to an enormous size in New York harbor, and
is plentiful throughout the region. Seirospora Grijithsiana is not
uncommon; it grows luxuriantly at New Bedford, whence Dr. Roche
has sent me many beautiful specimens of it, and of other Ceramiew.
Rhabdonia Baileyi, Gracilaria multtpartita, (narrow varieties) Chry-
symenia divaricata and C. Rosea are also characteristic forms. Deles-
seria Leprieurii, found in the Hudson at West Point, scarcely belongs
to this region, but is a tropical form at its utmost limit of northern
distribution.

3d. Care Harreras to Cape Frorma. Of the Alge characterizing
this region we know little except those found in the neighborhood of
Charleston, and a few specimens collected at, Wilmington, N. C., and
at Anastasia Island. Many species found within these limits are
common to the second region; others are here met with for the first
time. Of these the most remarkable are Arthrocladia villosa and a
Nitophyllum, found at Wilmington; a noble Grateloupia, probably
new (CU. Gibbesit, MS.) found at Sullivan’s Island, and Delesserta
hypoglossum, already mentioned as occurring at Charleston and Anas-
tasia Island. I have seen no Fucoid plant from this region; but if
there were a suitable locality, we ought here to have Sargassa. None
grow at Sullivan’s Island, where Grateloupia Gibbesii is the largest
4 id ee TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

sea plant, and the one most resembling a Fucus. All the estuaries
of this district produce Delesseria Leprieurit, and a Bostryciia, either
B. radicans, Mont., or a closely allied species. These last are tropical
forms first noticed on the shores of Cayenne, where the former was
found both on maritime rocks, and on the culms of grasses in the
estuary of the Sinnamar river. With us these plants grow on the
palmetto logs in Charleston harbor, and on Spartina glabra as far
up the river as the water continues sensibly salt. Del. Leprieurtt was
collected by Dr. Hooker at New Zealand, accompanied by a Bostrychia.
No other habitats for it are known.

Ath. Frorma Keys, anp SHores oF THE Mexican Guir. Here we
have a very strongly marked province, strikingly contrasting in vege-
tation with the East Coast, comprised in the three regions already
noticed. As yet the Keys have been very imperfectly explored, and
we are almost unacquained with the marine vegetation of the main
land of Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas. Of 130 species
which I collected at Key West in February, 1850, scarcely one-eighth
are common to the Hast Coast, seven-eighths being unknown on the
American shore to the north of Cape Florida. With this remarkable
difference between the Algz of the Keys and those of the East Coast,
there is a marked affinity between the former and those of the South
Jf Europe. The marine vegetation of the Gulf of Mexico has a very
strong resemblance to that of the Mediterranean Sea. Nearly one-
third of the species which I collected are common to the Mediterra-
nean. Several of them straggle northwards along the coast of Spain
and France, and even reach the south of England; but seareely any
of these are seen on the East coast of America. We may hence infer
that they are not conveyed by the gulf-stream. My collection at Key
West included 10 Melanosperms, 5 of which are common to the Med-
iterranean ; 82 Rhodosperms, 25 of which are Mediterranean ; and 38 ©
Chlorosperms, of which 10 are Mediterranean. Besides these identi-
cal species, there are many representative species closely allied to Med-
iterranean types. This resemblance is clearly shown in the genus
Dasya, of which seven out of eleven European species are found in the
Mediterranean. At Key West I collected eight species of this beau-
tiful genus. Among these, seven were new, and the eighth (D. ele-
gans) is found along the whole Hastern coast of North America. Three-
fourths, perhaps, of the masses of seaweed cast ashore at Key West
belong to Laurencia, of which genus several species and innumerable
puzzling varieties are profusely common. A fine Hypnea (H. Wur-
demanni, MS.) one of the most striking species of the genus, 1s also —
abundant. Alstdiumtriangulare, Digeniasimplex, Acanthophora, Aman-
sia multifida, and other common West Indian Rhodosperms, are abund-
antly cast ashore. Sargassum vulgare and bacciferum, Padina Pa- —
vonia, Zonaria lobata, and sundry Dictyote, are characteristic Me- —
lanosperms. But this region is chiefly remarkable for the abundance
and beauty of its Chlorosperms of the groups Siphonacee and Cauler-
pacee. ‘Ten species of Caulerpa were collected, some of which are of
common occurrence, and serve for food to the turtles, which, in their
turn are the staple article of diet of the islanders. Penicillus (at least
three species), Udotea, Halimeda, Acetabularia, Anadyomene, Dictyo-
{HE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 115

spheria, Chamedorjs, Dasycladus, Oymopolia, and others, some of
which are West Indian, some Mediterranean, are evidence of the high
temperature of the sea round the Keys. Many of the plants obtained
by me at Key West were cast up from deeper water when the south
wind blew strongly, and were not seen at any other time. A visitor,
therefore, in the hurricane months, would probably obtain many which
escaped me. Among the new species two Delesseriw, (D. tnvolvens,
and J), tenuifolia) both bolonging to the hypophyllous section, are
specially worth notice. These were very plentiful in the beginning of
February, but soon disappeared. Two Bostrychice (B. Montagnet, and
B, jilicula, MS.) and a Catenella were found on the stems of mangroves
near high-water mark ; but it would extend this notice to too great a
ength, were I to enumerate all the forms which occur in this prolific
region.

COELHCTING AND PRESERVING SPECIMENS.

I shall here give, for the convenience of the student, the sub-
stance of some directions for collecting and preserving specimens,
issued by the Director of the Dublin University Museum.

Marine Alge, as has already been stated, are found from the ex-
treme of high-water mark to the depth of from thirty to fifty fathoms;
which latter depth is perhaps the limit in temperate latitudes; the
majority of deep-water species growing at five to tenfathoms. Those
within the limits of the tidal influence are to be sought at low water,
especially the lowest water of spring tides; for many of the rarer and
more interesting kinds are found only at the verge of low-water mark,
either along the margin of rocks partially laid bare, or, more fre-
quently, fringing the deep tide-pools left at low water on a flattish
rocky shore. The northern or shaded face of the tide-pool will be
found richest in red algw, and the most sunny side in those of an
olive or green color. Alge which grow at a depth greater than the
tide exposes, are to be sought either by dredging, or by dragging
after a boat an iron cross armed with hooks, on all shores where those
contrivances can be applied; but where the nature of the bottom, or
_ the difficulty of procuring boats, renders dredging impossible, the
collector must seek fer deep-water species among the heaps of sea-wrack
thrown up by the waves. After storms seaweed sometimes forms
enormous banks along the coast; but even in ordinary tides many
delicate species, dislodged by the waves, float ashore, and may be
picked up on the beach in a perfect state. The rocky portions of a
coast should, therefore, be inspected at low water ; and the sandy or
shingly beach visited on the return of the tide. In selecting from
heaps we should take those specimens only that have suffered least in
color or texture by exposure to the air ; rejecting all bleached or half
melted pieces.

Collectors should carry with them one or two strong glass bottles
with wide mouths, or a hand-basket lined with japanned tin or gutta
percha, for the purpose of bringing home in sea-water the smaller and
more delicate kinds. This precaution is often absolutely necessary,
for many of the red alge rapidly decompose if exposed, even for a
116 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

short time, to the air, or if allowed to become Massed together with
plants of coarser texture. The cooler such delicate species are kept
the better ; and too many ought not to be crowded together in the
same bottle, as crowding encourages decomposition ; and when this
has begun, it spreads with fearful rapidity. These Alge should be
kept in sea-water until they can be arranged for drying, and the more
rapidly they are prepared the better. Many will not keep, even in
vessels of sea-water, from one day to another.

A common botanist’s vasculum, or an India-rubber cloth bag, will
serve to bring home the larger and less membranous or gelatinous
kinds; but even these, if left long unsorted, become clotted together,
and suffer proportionably.

In gathering Algze from their native places, the whole plant should
be plucked from the very base, and if there be an obvious root, it
should be left attached. Young collectors are apt to pluck branches
or mere scraps of the larger Algz, which often afford no just notion
of the mode of growth or natural habit of the plant from which they
have been snatched, and are often insufficient for the first purpose of
a specimen, that of ascertaining the plant to which it belongs. In
many of the leafy Fucoid plants, (Sargassa, &c.) the leaves that grow
on the lower and on the upper branches are quite different, and were
a lower and an upper branch plucked from the same root, they might
be so dissimilar as to pass for portions of different species. It 1s very
necessary, therefore, to gather, when it can be done, the whole plant,
including the root. It is quite true that the large kinds may be judi-
ciously divided; but the young collector had better aim at selecting
moderately sized specimens of the entire plant, than attempt the
division of large specimens, unless he keep in view this maxim: every
botanical specimen should be an epitome of the essential marks (of a
species.

Hee vekal duplicate. specimens of every kind should always be pre-
served, and particularly where the species is a variable one. Very
many Alge vary in the comparative breadth of the leaves, and in the
degree of branching of the stems ; and when such varieties are noticed,
a considerable series of specimens is often requisite to connect a broad
and a narrow form of the same species. A neglect of this care leads
to endless mistakes in the after work of identification of species, and
has been the cause of burdening our systems with a troublesome num-
ber of synonymes.

Where it is the collector’s object to preserve Algew in the least
troublesome manner, and in a rough state, to be afterwards laid out
and prepared for pressing at leisure, the specimens fresh from the sea
are to be spread out and left to dry in an airy, but not too sunny, sit-
uation. They are not to be washed or rinsed in fresh water, nor is —
their natural moisture to be squeezed from them. The more loosely
and thinly they are spread out the better, and in dry weather they
will be sufficiently dry after a few hours’ exposure to allow of pack-
ing. Inadamp state of the atmosphere the drying process will oc-
cupy some days. No other preparation is needed, and they may be
loosely packed in paper bags or boxes, a ticket of the exact locality
being affixed to each parcel. Such specimens will shrink very con-

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Iz

siderably in drying, and most will have changed color more or less,
and the bundle have become very unsightly ; nevertheless, if thor-
oughly dried, to prevent mouldiness or heating, and packed loosely,
such specimens will continue for along time in a perfectly sound
state; and on being re-moistened and properly pressed, will make
excellent cabinet specimens.

It is very much better, when drying Alge in this rough manner,
aot to wash them in fresh water, because the salt they contain serves
to keep them ina pliable state, and causes them to imbibe water more
readily on re-immersion. All large and coarse growing Algw may
be put up in this manner, and afterwards, at leisure, prepared for the
herbarium by washing, steeping, pressing, and drying between folds
of soft paper, in the same way that land plants are pressed and dried.
But with the membranous and gelatinous kinds, a different method
must be adopted.

The smaller and more delicate Algz must be prepared for the her-
barium as soon as practicable after being brought from the shore.
The mode of preparation is as follows, and, after a few trials and with
a little care, will soon be learned.

The collector should be provided with three flat dishes or large
deep plates, and one or two shallower plates. One of the deep plates
is to be filled with sea-water, and the other two with fresh water. In
the dish of sea-water the stock of specimens to be laid out may be
kept. A specimen taken from the stock is then introduced into one
of the plates of fresh water, washed to get rid of dirt or parasites
that may infest it, and pruned or divided into several pieces, if the
branches be too dense, or the plant too tufted, to allow the branches
to lie apart when the specimen is displayed on paper. The washed
and pruned specimens are then floated in the second dish until a con-
siderable number are ready for laying down. They are then removed
separately into one of the shallower plates, that must be kept filled
with clean water ; in which they are floated and made to expand fully.
Next, a piece of white paper of suitable size is carefully introduced
under the expanded specimen. The paper then, with the specimen
remaining displayed upon it, is cautiously brought to the surface of
the water, and gently and carefully drawn out, so as not to disarrange
the branches. A forceps, a porcupine’s quill, a knitting needle, or
an etching tool, or any finely pointed instrument will assist the ope-
rator in displaying the branches and keeping them separate while
the plant is lifted from the water ; and should any branch become
matted in the removal, a little water dropped from a spoon over the
tangled portion, and the help of the finely pointed tool, will restore
it.

The piece of wet paper with the specimen upon jit is to be laid on
a sheet of soft soaking paper, and others laid by its side until the
sheet is covered. A piece of thin calico or muslin, as large as the
sheet of soaking paper, is then spread over the wet specimens. More
soaking paper, and another set of specimens covered with cotton, are
laid on these ; and soa bundle is gradually raised. This bundle, con-
sisting of sheets of specimens, is then placed between flat boards,
under moderate pressure, and left for some hours. It must then be
118 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

examined, the specimens on their white papers must be placed on dry
sheets of soaking paper, covered with fresh cloths, and again placed
under pressure. And this process must be repeated every day until
the specimens are fully dry.

In drying, most specimens will be found to adhere to the papers on
which they have been displayed, and care must be taken to prevent
their sticking to the pieces of cotton cloth laid over them. Should
it be found difficult te remove them from the muslin, it is better to
allow them to dry, trusting to after-removal, than to tear them away
in a half-dried state, which would probably destroy the specimens. A
few dozen pieces of unglazed thin cotton cloth of proper size should
always be at hand, (white muslin, that costs six or eight cents per
yard, answers very well). These cloths will be required only in the
first two or three changes, for when the specimen has begun to dry
on the white paper it will not adhere to the soaking paper laid over
it. In warm weather the smaller kinds will often be found perfectly
dry after forty-eight hours’ pressure, and one or two changes of

papers.
USES OF THE ALGH.

The uses of the Algze may be considered under two poinis of view,
namely, the general office which this great class of plants, as a class,
discharges in the economy of nature; and those minor useful applica-
tions of separate species which man selects on discovering that they
can yield materials to supply his various. wants.

The part committed to the Algz in the household of nature, though
humble when we regard them as the lowest organic members in that
great family, is not only highly important to the general welfare of
the organic world, but, indeed, indispensable. This we shall at once
admit, when we refiect on the vast preponderance of the ocean over
the land on the surface of the earth, and bear in mind that almost the
whole submarine vegetation consists of Algze. The number of species
of marine plants which are not Algz proper is extremely small.
These on the American coast are limited to less than half a dozen, -
only one of which, the common el Grass (Zostera marina,) 18 ex-
tensively dispersed.

All other marine plants are referable to Algz ; the wide-spread sea
would therefore be nearly destitute of vegetable life were it not for
their existence. Almost every shore—where shifting sands do not
forbid their growth—is now clothed with a varied band of Algee of
the larger kinds; and microscopic species of these vegetables (Diato-
macece) teem in countless myriads at depths of the ocean as great as
the plummet has yet sounded, and where no other vegetable life
exists. It is not, therefore, speaking too broadly to say that the sea,
in every climate and at all known depths, is tenanted by these vege-
tables under one phase or other.

The sea, too, teems with animal life—that ‘‘ great and wide sea,
wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great
beasts,’’ affords scope to hordes of animals, from the ‘‘ Leviathan ”’
whale to the microscopic polype, transparent as the water in which he
)

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 119

swims, and only seen by the light of the phosphoric gleam which he
emits. Now this exuberant animal creation could not be maintained
without a vegetable substructure. It is one of the laws of nature that
animals shall feed on organized matter, and vegetables on unorgan-
ized. For the support of animal life, therefore, we require vegetables
to change the mineral constituents of the surrounding media into
suitable nutriment.

In the sea this office of vegetation is almost exclusively committed
to the Alge, and we may judge of the completeness with which they
execute their mission by the fecundity of the animal world which de-
pends upon them. Not that I would assert that all, or nearly all, the
marine animals are directly dependent on the Algz for their food;
for the reverse is notoriously the case. But in every class we find
species which derive the whole or a part of their nourishment from
the Alez, and there are myriads of the lower in organization which do
depend upon them altogether.

Among the higher orders of Algee feeders I may mention the Tur-
tles, whose green fat, so prized by aldermanic palate, may possibly be
colored by the unctuous green juices of the Caulerpe on which they
browse. But without further notice of those that directly depend on
the Alew, it is manifest that all must ultimately, though indirectly,
depend on whatever agency in the first instance seizes on Inorganic
matter, and converts it into living substance suitable to enter into the
composition of animal nerve and muscle; and this agency is assur-
edly the office of the vegetable kingdom, here confined in the main to
Algz. We thus sufficiently establish our position that the Algz are
indispensable to the continuance of organic life in the sea.

As being the first vegetables that prey upon dead matter, and as
affording directly or indirectly a pasture to all water animals, the
Alge are entitled to notice. Yet this is but one-half of the task com-
mitted to them. Equally important is the influence which their
growth exerts on the water and on the air. The well-known fact
that plants, whilst they fix carbon in an organized form in extending
their bodies by the growth of cells, exhale oxygen gas in a free state,
is true of the Alge as of other vegetables. By this action they tend
to keep pure the water in which they vegetate, and yield also a con-
siderable portion of oxygen gas to the atmosphere. I have already
stated that whenever land becomes flooded, or wherever an extensive
surface of shallow water—whether fresh or salt—is exposed to the
air, Conferve and allied Alge quickly multiply. Every pool, every
stagnant ditch is soon filled with their green silken threads. These
threads cannot grow without emitting oxygen. If you examine such
a pool on a sunny day, you may trace the beads of oxygen on the sub-
merged threads, or see the gas collect in bubbles where the threads
present a dense mass. It is continually passing off into the air while
the Confervee vegetate, and this vegetation usually continues vigor-
ous, one species succeeding another as it dies out, as long as the pool
remains. And when, on the drying up of the land, the Conferve die,
their bodies, which are scarcely more than membranous skins filled
with fluid, shrivel up, and are either carried away by the wind or
form a papery film over the exposed surface of the ground. In neither
120 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

case do they breed noxious airs by their decomposition. All their
life long they have conferred a positive benefit on the atmosphere, and
at their death they at least do no injury. The amount of benefit de-
rived from each individual is indeed minute, but the aggregate is vast
when we take into account the many extensive surfaces of water dis-
persed over the world, which are thus kept pure and made subservient
toa healthy state of the atmosphere. It is not only vast, but it is
worthy of Him who has appointed to even the meanest of His creatures
something to do for the good of His creation.

These general uses of the Alge, apparent as they are on a slight
reflection, are apt to be overlooked by the utilitarian querist, who
will see no use in anything which does not directly minister to his
own wants, and who often judges of the use of a material by the dol-
lars and cents which it brings to:his pocket.

It would be in vain to adduce to him the indirect benefit derived to
the rest of creation through the lower animals which the Alge supply
with food ; for probably he would turn round with the further de-
mand, ‘‘ What is the use of feeding all these animals?’’ And he
might think, too, that the amount of oxygen in the air was quite
enough to last out at least his time, without such constant renovation
as the Algz afford, or that sufficient renovation would come from
other sources had the Algz never been created. ‘‘Show me,” he
would say, ‘‘how I can make money of them, and then I will admit
the uses of these vegetables.’’ This I shall therefore now endeavor
to do, by summing up a few of the uses to which Algw have been
applied by man.

Man, in his least cultivated state, seeks from the vegetable king-
dom, in the first place, a supply for the cravings of hunger, and after-
wards medicine or articles of clothing. As food, several species of
Algze are used both by savage and civilized man, but more frequently
as condiments than as staple articles of consumption. Many kinds
commonly found on the shores of Europe are eaten by the peasantry.
The midrib of Alaria esculenta, stripped of the membranous wings, is
eaten by the coast population of the north of Ireland and Scotland ;
but to less extent than the dried fronds of Rhodymenia palmata, the
Dulse of the Scotch, and Dillisk of the Irish. This latter species
varies considerably in texture and taste, according to the situation in
which it grows. When-it grows parasitically on the stems of the
larger Laminaric it is much tougher and less sweet, and therefore
less esteemed than when it grows among mussels and Balani near
low-water mark. It is this latter variety which, under the name of
‘‘ shell dillisk,’’ is most prized. In some places on the west of Ire-
land this plant forms the chief relish to his potatoes that the coast
peasant enjoys; but its use is by no means confined to the extreme
poor. It is eaten occasionally, either from pleasure or from an opin-
ion of its wholesomeness, by individuals of all ranks, but, except
among the poor, the taste for it is chiefly confined to children. It is
commonly exposed for sale at fruit stalls in the towns of Ireland, and
may be seen in similar places in the Irish quarters of New York. : In
the Mediterranean it forms a common ingredient in soups; but not-
withstanding M. Soyer’s attempt in the famine years to teach this use
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 12)

of it to the Irish, they have not yet learned to prefer it cooked. Oc-
casionally, however, it is fried.

Chondrus crispus, the Carrageen or Irish Moss of the shops, is dis-
solved, after long boiling, into a nearly colorless insipid jelly, which
may then be seasoned and rendered tolerably palatable. It is con-
sidered a nourishing article of diet, especially for invalids, and has
been recommended in consumptive cases. At one time, before it was
generally known to be a very common plant on rocky coasts, it
fetched a considerable price in the market. Though called ‘‘ Irish
moss,’’ it is abundant on all the shores of Europe and of the northern
States of America. It is, perhaps, most palatable when prepared as
a blanc-mange with milk, but it should be eaten on the day it is
made, being liable, when kept, to run to water. Its nourishing quali-
- ties have been tested, I am informed, in the successful rearing of
calves and pigs partly upon it.

Many other species, particularly various kinds of Grigartina and
Gracilaria, yield similar jellies when boiled, some of which are excel-
lent.

Gracilaria lichenoides, the Ceylon Moss of the East, where it is
largely used in soups and jellies, and G. Spinosa, the Agar-Agar
(or Agal-Agal) of the Chinese, are among the most.valuable of these.
They are extensively used, and form important articles of traffic in
the Hast. Another species of excellent quality (the Gigartina speciosa
of Sonder) is collected for similar purposes by the colonists of Swan
river.

It was at one time supposed that the famous edible birds’ nests of
China, the finest of which sell for their weight in gold, and enter into
the composition of the most luxurious Chinese dishes, were constructed
of the semi-decomposed branches of some Alga of one or other of the
above-named genera; but it has since been ascertained that these
nests consist of an animal substance, which is supposed to be dis-
gorged by the swallows that build them.

Nearly all the cartilaginous kinds of Rhodospermez will boil down
to an edible jelly. One kind is preferred to another, not from being
more wholesome, but from yielding a stronger and more tasteless
gelatine. The latter quality is essential ; for though the skill of the
cook can readily impart an agreeable flavor to a tasteless substance,
it is more difficult to overcome the smack of an unsavory one. And
the main quality which gives a disrelish to most of our Algz-jellies
and blanc-manges is a certain bitterish and sub-saline taste which can
rarely be altogether removed.

Very few Alge have been found agreeably tasted when cooked,
though Dillisk and others are pleasantly sweet when eaten raw. Many
which, when moistened after having been dried, exhale a strong per-
fume of violets, are altogether disappointing to the palate.

Perhaps, after all, the most valuable as articles of food are the va-
rieties of Porphyra vulgaris and P. laciniata, which, in winter, are col-
lected on the rocky shores of Europe, and by boiling for many hours
are reduced to a dark brown, semi-fluid mass, which is brought to
table under the name of marine sauce, sloke, slouk, or sloucawn. It is
eaten with lemon-juice or vinegar, and its flavor is liked by most per-
123, TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

sons who can overcome the disgust caused by its very unpleasant
aspect. At some of the British establishments for preserving fresh
vegetables it is put up in hermetically sealed cases for exportation and
use at sea, or for use at seasons when it cannot be obtained from the
rocks. It is collected only in winter, at which season the membranous
fronds, which are found in a less perfect state in summer, are in full
growth. Both species of Porphyra grow abundantly on the rocky
shores of North America. They not only furnish an agreeable vege-
table sauce, but are regarded as anti-scorbutic, and said to be useful
in glandular swellings, perhaps from the minute quantity of iodine
which they contain.

As articles of food for man other seaweeds might be mentioned, but
I admit that none among them furnish us directly with valuable escu-
lents ; though many less nauseous than the hunter’s ‘‘ Z’ripe de Roche’
are sufficiently nourishing to prolong existence to the shipwrecked
seaman; and others, like the Porphyre just mentioned, are useful
condiments to counteract the effects of continued subsistence on salt-
jank.

But if not directly edible, there are many ways in which they indi-
rectly supply the table. As winter provender for cattle, some are in
high esteem on the northern shores of aaa In Norway and Scot-
land the herds regularly visit the shores, on the recess of the tide, to
feed on Fucus vesiculosus and I’, serratus, which are both also collected
and boiled by the Norwegian and Lapland peasants, and, when mixed
with coarse meal, given to pigs, horses, and cattle. These Fuci are
both grateful and nourishing to the animals, which become very par-
tial to such food. Yet, perhaps, they are only the resources of half-
fed beasts, and would possibly be blown on by a stall-fed ‘‘ short-
horn’’ that looks for vegetables of a higher order.

To obtain such food for the high-bred cow, the Alez must be ap-
phed in another way—namely, as manure. For this purpose they
are very largely used in the British islands, where ‘‘ sea-wrack’’ is
carried many miles inland, and successfully applied in the raising of
green crops. On the west coast of Ireland, the refuse of the sea fur-
nishes the poor man with the greater part of the manure on which he
depends for raising his potatoes. All kinds of seaweed are indis-
criminately applied ; but the larger kinds of Laminarie are preferred.
As these rapidly decompose, and melt into the ground, they should,
in common with other kinds, be used fresh, and not suffered to lie
long in the pit, where they soon lose their fertilizing properties. The
crops of potatoes thus raised being generally abundant, but the quality

rarely good, sea-wrack is more suitable. to the coarser than to the ,

finer varieties of the potato. It is, however, considered excellent for
various green crops, and a good top-dressing for grass land, and its
use is by no means confined to the poorer districts. The employment
of sea-wrack is limited only by the expense of conveying so bulky a
material to a distance from the seaor a navigable river.

Though the agricultural profits derived from the Algz are consid-
erable, a still larger revenue was once obtained by burning the /uci
and collecting their ashes, as a source of carbonate of soda—a salt
which exists abundantly in most of them. /'ucus vesiculosus, nodosus,
|

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 123

and serratus, the three commonest European kinds, yielded, up to a
recent period, a very considerable rental to the owners of tidal rocks
on the bleakest and most barren islands of the north of Scotland, and
on all similar rocky shores on the English and Irish coasts. A single
proprietor (Lord Macdonald) is said to have derived £10,000 per an-
num, for several successive years, from the rent of his kelp shores ;
and the collecting and preparation of the kelp afforded a profitable
employment to many thousands of the inhabitants of Orkney, Shet-
land, and the Hebrides.

During the last European war, when England was shut out from
the markets from which a supply of soda was previously obtained,
almost the whole of the alkali used by soap-boilers was derived from
the kelp, or sea-weed ashes, collected in Scotland. The quantity an-
nually made in favorable years, between 1790 and 1800, amounted, on
the authority of Dr. Barry,* to 3,000 tons, which then fetched from
£8 to £10 sterling per ton; but, at a later period of the war, rose
from £18 to £20. It is also stated by the same author, that within
the 80 years, from 1720 to 1800, which succeeded the first introduc-
tion of the kelp trade, the enormous sum of £595,000 was realized by
the proprietors of kelp shores and their tenants and laborers.

Yet, so great was the prejudice of the islanders against this lucra-
tive trade, when first proposed to them, ‘“‘and,’’ to quote Dr. Gre-
ville, ‘so violent and unanimous was the resistance, that officers of
justice were found necessary to protect the individuals employed in
the work. Several trials were the consequences of these outrages.
It was gravely pleaded in a court of law, ‘that the suffocating smoke
that issued from the kelp kilns would sicken or kill every species of
fish on the coast, or drive them into the ocean far beyond tke reach of
the fishermen; blast the corn and grass on their farms; introduce
diseases of various kinds; and smite with barrenness their sheep,
horses, and cattle, and even their own families.’’’ We smile at the
ignorant bigotry of these poor people; but have we never heard as
ereat misfortunes predicted of almost every new improvement of the
age we live in, and that not by unlettered peasantry, but by persons
calling themselves wise, learned, and refined ?—as sad stories have
been told against temperance, free trade, or even against the exhibi-
tion in the Crystal Palace.

The Orkney islanders were not long in finding the golden harvest
which had thus, in the first instance, been forced upon them, and,
within a few years, ‘“‘ Prosperity to the kelp trade !’’ was given as the
leading toast on all their festive occasions. This state of prosperity
lasted until the general peace, when the foreign markets being thrown
open, barilla came into competition with the home produce. The
manufacture of kelp gradually declined as the price fell, and now it
has nearly ceased altogether; for, besides the competition with barila,
the modern process by which soda is readily procured from rock-salt,
has brought another rival into the field, and one against which it
seems in vain to contend.

* History of the Orkney Islands, p. 383, (as quoted by Greville; see Alg. Brit. Introd.,
p. Xxi, et seq.)
124 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Kelp is still made, on a small scale, for local consumption, and is
sometimes exported as manure, but at a very low price. It is not
likely ever to rise again into importance, except as a source of Iodine,
which singular substance was first discovered in a soap-ley made with
kelp ashes. Iodine has now become almost indispensable, from its
medicinal value, as well as from its use in the arts and manufactures,
and has been found in greater quantity in the fronds of certain littoral
Algs than in any other substances. It is therefore possible that, for
producing this substance, these kelp-weeds may again become of mer-
cantile importance. As a remedy in cases of glandular swellings, the
use of Iodine is now well established, and it is a singular fact that
several littoral Fuci have been from early times considered popular
remedies in similar affections. J ucus vesiculosus has long been used.
by the hedge-doctors to reduce such swellings ; and Dr. Greville men-
tions, on the authority of the late Dr. Gillies, that the ‘‘ stems of a
seaweed are sold in the shops, and chewed by the inhabitants of
South America, wherever goitre is prevalent, for the same purpose.
This remedy is termed by them Palo Coto, (literally, Goitre-stick,’’)
and Dr. Greville supposes, from the fragments which he had seen,
that it is a species of Laminaria.

Todine, however, though the most important, is not the only medi-
cinal substance obtained from the Alge. Gracilaria helminthochorton,
or Corsican Moss, has long held a place in the pharmacopeia as a
vermifuge. What is sold under this name in the shops, is commonly
adulterated with many other kinds. In samples which I have seen,
the greater part consisted of Laurencia obtusa, through which a few
threads of the true Corsican Moss were dispersed. Possibly, however,
the Laurencia may be of equal value.

Mannite also has been detected by Dr. Stenhouse in several Algae,
to which it imparts a sweetish taste. The richest in this substance
appears to be Laminaria saccharina, from a thousand grains of which
121.5 grains, or 12.15 per cent., of mannite were obtained. The
method of extracting is very simple. The dried weed is repeatedly
digested with hot water, when it yields a mucilage of a brownish-red
color, and of a sweetish, but very disagreeable taste. When evapo-
rated to dryness, this mucilage leaves a saline semi-crystalline mass.
This being repeatedly treated with boiling alcohol, yields the mannite
in ‘‘Jarge hard prisms, of a fine, silky lustre.”’ Halidrys siliquosa,
Leminaria digitata, Fucus serratus, Alaria esculenta, [thodymenia
palmata, &c., are stated by Dr. Stenhouse, from whose memoir this
account is condensed, to contain from 1 to 5 or 6 per cent. of mannite.

In summing up the economic uses to which Algz have been ap-
plied, I must not omit to mention their application in the arts. The
most valuable species, in this point of view, with which we are ac-
quainted, is the Gracilaria tenax of China, under which name prob-
ably more than one species may be confounded. Of this plant, on
the authority of Mr. Turner, (Hist. Fuc. vol. 2, p. 142,) ‘the
quantity annually imported at Canton is about 27,000 lbs., and it is
sold in that city at about 6d. or 8d. per lb. In preparing it, nothing
more is done than simply drying it in the sun; after which it may
be preserved, like other Fuci, for any length of time, and improves

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. V5

by age, when not exceeding four or five years, if strongly compressed
and kept moist. The Chinese, when they have occasion to use it,
merely wash off the saline particles and other impurities, and then
steep it in warm water, in which, in a short time, it entirely dis-
solves, stiffening, as it cools, into a perfect gelatine, which, like
glue, again liquefies on exposure to heat, and makes an extremely
powerful cement. It is employed among them for all those purposes
to which gum or glue is here deemed applicable, but chiefly in the
manufacture of lanthorns, to strengthen or varnish the paper, and
sometimes to thicken or give a gloss to gauze or silks.’’ Mr. Turner
derived the above information respecting G. tenax from Sir Joseph
Banks ; but recent travellers tell us that Gracilaria spinosa, known
colloquially as Agal-agal,* yields the strongest cement ‘used by the
Chinese, and that it is brought in large quantities from Singapore and
neighboring shores to the China markets. Probably both species are
esteemed for similar qualities.

Several Alege are used in the arts in a minor way. Thus, accord-
ing to Dr. Patrick Neill, knife-handles are made in Scotland of the
stems of Laminaria digitata. ‘‘ A pretty thick stem is selected, and
cut into pieces about four inches long. Into these, when fresh, are
stuck blades of knives, such as gardeners use for pruning or graft-
ing. As the stem dries, it contracts and hardens, closely and firmly
embracing the hilt of the blade. In the course of some months the
handles become quite firm, and very hard and shrivelled, so that
when tipped with metal they are hardly to be distinguished from
hartshorn.’’

On the authority ot Lightfoot,+ the stems of Chorda filum, which
often attain the length of thirty or forty feet, and which are popularly
known in Scotland as ‘“‘ Lucky Minny’s lines,’ “skinned, when ‘half
dry, and twisted, acquire so considerable a degree of strength and
toughness,’’ that the Highlanders sometimes use them as fishing
lines. The slender stems of Nercocystis are similarly used by the
fishermen in Russian’ America. In parts of England bunches of
Fucus vesiculosus or F'. Serratus are frequently hung in the cottages
of the poor as rude barometers, their hygrometric qualities, which
arise from the salt they contain, indicating a change of weather.

In our account of the artistic value of Alge, we ought not to pass
unnoticed the ornamental works which the manufacturers of “ sea-
weed pictures,’ and baskets of ‘‘ ocean-flowers,’’ construct from the
various beautiful species of our coasts, and which are so well known
at charity bazaars, accompanied by a much-hackneyed legend, com-
mencing,

‘‘Call us not weeds; we are flowers of the sea,’’ &c.
Some of these ‘works of art ’’ display considerable taste in the
arrangement, and the objects themselves are so intrinsically beauti-
ful that they can rarely be otherwise than attractive. During the
recent pressure of Irish famine, many ladies in various parts of the
country employed a portion of their leisure in the manufacture of

* See the Voyage of H. M. S, Samarang.
_ TEI. Scot. vol. 2, p. 964.
126 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

these ornamental works, and no despicable sum was raised by the
sale.

Other sums, for charitable purposes, have been realized in a way
which a botanist would deem more legitimate, by the sale of books
of prepared and named specimens; and my friend, the Rev. Dr.
Landsborough,* I am told, has in this manner collected money
which has gone a considerable way towards building a church. There
seems no good reason why missionaries in distant countries might
not, either personally or through their pupils or families, collect these
and other natural objects, and sell them for the benefit of their mis-
sion; by which means they would not only obtain funds for pursuing
the work more immediately committed to them, but would have the
satisfaction of knowing that in doing so they were unfolding to the
admiration of mankind new pages of the wide-spread volume of
nature.

Unfortunately, it happens that in the educational course prescribed
to our divines, natural history has no place, for which reason many
are ignorant of the important bearings which the book of Nature has
upon the book of Revelation. They do not consider, apparently, that |
both are from God—both are His faithful witnesses to mankind. And
if this be so, is it reasonable to suppose that either, without the other,
can be fully understood? It is only necessary to glance at the absurd
commentaries in reference to natural objects which are to be found in
too many annotators of the Holy Scriptures, to be convinced of the
benefit which the clergy would themselves derive from a more ex-
tended study of the works of creation. And to missionaries, es-
pecially, a minute familiarity with natural objects must be a power-
ful assistance in awakening the attention of the savage, who, after
his manner, is a close observer, and likely to detect a fallacy in his
teacher, should the latter attempt a practical illustration of his dis-
course without sufficient knowledge.f This subject is too important
for casual discussion, and deserves the careful consideration of those
in whose hands the education of the clergy rests. These arenot days —
in which persons who ought to be our guides in matters of doctrine
can afford to be behind the rest of the world in knowledge; nor can
they safely sneer at the ‘‘ knowledge that puffeth up,’’ until, lke
the Apostle, they have sounded its depths and proved its shallowness.

Why should the study of the physical sciences be supposed to have
an evil influence on the mind—a tendency to lead men to doubt every
truth which cannot be made the direct subject of analysis or experi-
ment? I can conceive a one-sided scientific education having this
tendency. If the mind be propelled altogether in one direction, and
that direction lead exclusively to analytical research, it is possible
that the other faculties of the individual may become clouded or en-
feebled ; and then he is the unresisting slave of analysis—not more a
rational being than any other monomaniac. And yet, paradoxical
though the assertion seem, he may be all his life a reasoner, forming

* Author of ‘‘A Popular History of British Seaweeds.”’

} See some excellent observations on this subject in ‘‘ Foot-prints of the Creator ; or,
the Asterolepis of Stromness,’’ by Hugh Miller. London, 1849.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 127

deductions and inductions with the most rigid accuracy in his beaten
track.

I can conceive, too, the astronomer, conversant with the immensity
of space and its innumerable systems of worlds, so prostrated before
the majesty of the material creation, as not only to lose sight of him-
self and of the whole race to which he belongs, but of the world, or
even of the solar system, and be led to doubt whether things so poor,
and mean, and small can have any value in the sight of the Lord of
so wide a dominion. I ‘can conceive him, too, observing the uni-
formity and the harmony of the laws that govern the whole system of
the heavens; the undeviating course of all events among the stars
coming round as regularly as the shadow on the dial ; and the little
evidence there is that this uniformity has ever suffered any disturb-
ance that cannot be accounted for by the law of gravitation, and made
the subject of calculation by the mathematician, who, working an
equation in his closet, shall come forth and declare the cause of irreg-
ularity, though that cause may be acting at thousands of millions of
miles distance—I can conceive him inferring from a uniformity like
this the absence of a superintending Providence in human affairs. If
the Creator, he will say, have given up the very heaven of heavens to
the immutable laws of gravitation, can I believe that he interferes by
his Providence to superintend the puny matters of this lower world?

His reasons seem plausible while the mind is pointed in that one
direction. But they lose all their force when, laying aside for a mo-
ment the telescope, the philosopher investigates with his microscope
the structure of any living thing, no matter how small and how seem-
ingly simple the organism may be. Let the object examined but have
life, and it will soon lead him to understand a little of the meaning of
God’s glorious title, Mawimus in minimis. And the further he car-
ries his researches, the more the field of research opens, until, ex-
tending from the speck beneath his lens, it spreads wider and wider,
and at length blends with infinity at the ‘‘horizon’s limit.’’ Here
his boasted analysis can afford him no help. He has laid bare the
‘“mechanism of the heavens;’’ he has weighed the sun and the
planets; he has foretold with unerring certainty events which shall
happen a thousand years after he shall be laid in the dust: and yet
he cannot unravel the mystery that shrouds the seat of life, even as it
exists in the meanest thing that crawls. And if the life of this poor
worm be thus wonderful, what is that spirit which animates the
human frame? What is that humanity which, but a moment ago,
seemed like the small dust in the balance compared with the multitude
and the masses of the stars? His conceptions of his own true position
in the scale of being become more rational. For a moment he views
from a new position the distant stars, as the peasant views them in a
clear night—points of light spangling the blue vault above. And he
reflects, ‘‘ How do I know that those shining ones are other than they
seem? How dol know their size, their distance, the laws by which
they are governed—the reins by which the ‘coursers of the sun’ are
held in their appointed track? How, but by the intellectual powers
of. that human spirit which but now I deemed so poor and mean, so

128 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

unworthy of the very thought of the Almighty—much more, so un-
worthy of the price which He has paid for it ?”’

Thus the mind, turned back upon itself, begins to discover that,
after all, it is not ‘‘of the earth, earthy,’’ but derived from a higher
source, and reserved for a higher destiny. And, strange to say, this
altered and bettered opinion of itself is traceable to the first check
which it feels—the first baffling of its analytical powers. So long as
the mind was extending the sphere of its researches into the material
universe, weighing, and numbering, and tabulating, all nature seemed
to move in blind obedience to a force whose influence might be caleu-
lated ; every world being found to act upon its fellow in exact propor-
tion to its position and its weight, and our world to be but a part, and
a small part, of one vast machine. And with such a view of the rela-
tion of the earth to the universe, might not unnaturally come a lower
estimate of man, the dweller on the earth. ‘‘Is he, too, but a part
in the house in which he dwells? Is his course also subject to those
immutable laws which bind the universe together? And, if so, where
is. his individuality ? Where the reflex of that image in which he is
said to have been created ?’? But the moment that the mind appre-
hends the action of the inexplicable laws of life, and is certified of the
individuality of every living thing, however small, and compares these
microscopic ‘‘ wholes’’ with the ‘‘whole’’ that it feels itself to be,
that moment it begins to see that the human soul is a something
apart from the world, in and over which it is placed.

Galileo in his cell was bound in fetters, but his spirit could not be
bound. His thoughts were as free, and his mind had as wide a range,
as if he could have flown through all space on the wings of light. And
thus it is with man—prisoned for a short time in this lower world, he
belongs to an order of being that no world can confine. He cannot
continue stationary, nor plod forever a dull round in the treadmill
here. He must either rise above all height, into communion with the
Deity ; or fall, bereft of hope, forever. We must not estimate such a
being by the narrow bounds of the cell which he now inhabits. We
must judge of him by his intellectual powers, his aspirations, his in-
tuitive conceptions of his own nature; and, as a spirit, all these place
him, in his individuality, far above any plurality of mere material
worlds.

I may seem to be wandering from my proper theme, but my object
is to vindicate the teaching of the Book of Nature from the aspersions
of the ignorant and the prejudiced. Whilst I admit that half views
of natural science may lead men astray, and whilst I deplore the infi-
delity of scientific men whose minds are absorbed in the material on
which they work, I deny that the study of nature has, in itself, an
evil tendency. On the contrary, the study of organic nature, at least,
ought to be one of the purest sources of intellectual pleasure. It
places before us structures the most exquisite in form and delicate in
material; the perfect works of Him who is Himself the sum of all
perfections :—and if our minds are properly balanced, we shall not
rest satisfied with a mere knowledge and admiration of these wonder-
ful and manifold works; but, reading in them the evidence of their
relation to their Maker, we shall be led on to investigate owr own.

I do not assert that this study is, of itself, sufficient to make men
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 129

religious. But as the contemplation of any great work of art gene-
rally excites in us a two-fold admiration—admiration of the work
itself, and of the genius of its author—so a true perception of the
wonders of nature includes a certain worship of the author of those
wonders. Yet we may study natural objects, and admire them, and
devote our whole life to elucidate their structure; and after all may
fail to recognise the being of Him who has fashioned them. Such
blindness is scarcely conceivable to some minds; yet to others, the
opposite appears but the effect of a warm imagination. So inexpli-
eable is the human mind! The moral evidence which stirs one man
to his centre brings no conviction to another. Physical truths, indeed,
cannot be rationally denied ; but there is no metaphysical truth which
may not be plausibly obscured or explained away by self-satisfied pre-
judice. Hence the inconclusiveness of all reasoning against infidelity.
The failure is not in the reasons set before the mind, but in the non-
acknowledgment of the imperative force of moral reasons. No man
can be convinced of any moral truth against his will; and if the will
be corrupt, it is possessed by a blind and deaf spirit, which none can
cast out until a ‘‘stronger than he’’ shall come.

Here I pause; but I cannot conclude this lecture without express-
ing my warm thanks to the kind friends who have aided me in my
researches, both with specimens and with sympathy. To some of
them I am personally unknown, and with others I became acquainted
casually, during my recent tour along the shores of the United States.
From all I have received unmixed kindness, and every aid that it was
in their power to render. Indebted to all, therefore, I am more espe-
cially bound by gratitude to my friend, Professor J. W. Batuey, of
West Point, the earliest American worker in the field of Algology.
Well known in his own peculiar branch of science, he has found a
relaxation from more wearing thought, in exploring the microscopic
world, and his various papers on what may be called ‘‘vegetable
atoms’’ (Diatomacee) are widely known and highly appreciated.
From him I received the first specimens of United States Algze which
I possessed, and, though residing at a distance from the coast, he has
been of essential service in infusing a taste for this peculiar depart-
ment of botany among persons favorably situated for research ; so
that either from him or through him I have obtained specimens from
many localities from which I should otherwise have been shut out.
To him I am indebted for an introduction to a knot of Algologists
who have zealously explored the southwestern portions of Long Isl-
and and New York Sounds, Messrs. Hooppr, Conepon, Pixs, and
Watters of Brooklyn, from all of whom I have received liberal sup-
plies of specimens; and through him Professor Luwis R. Grppes, of
Charleston, whose personal acquaintance I had afterwards the happi-
ness of making, first communicated to me the result of his explora-
tions of Charleston harbor, as well as the first collection of Florida
Algw which I received, and which Dr. Gibbes obtained from their
collector, the late Dr. Wurdemann. Through Professor Asa Gray,
of Cambridge, Mass., long before it was my good fortune to know him
personally and intimately, I received collections of the Alga of Boston
harbor, made by Mr. G. B. Emerson, Miss Morris, and Miss Lorine,

9
130 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT, ETC.

(now Mrs. Gray); also of the Alge of Rhode Island, made by Mr.
S. T. Otney, who has done so much to illustrate the botany of that
State, and by Mr. Gzorce Hunt. My gatherings from the same coasts
have since been much enriched by specimens from Dr. Sinas Durkee,
of Boston, Dr. M. B. Rocuu, of New Bedford, and Mrs. P. P. Mupes,
of Lynn.

To Professor Tuomry, of the University of Alabama, I feel especially
indebted for the care and kindness with which he formed for me an
interesting collection of the Algew of the Florida Keys, and the more
so because this collection was made purposely to aid me in my present
work. My friend Dr. Biopexrr, of Key West, also, since my return
to Europe, has communicated several additional species, and is con-
tinuing his researches on that fertile shore. To the Rev. W. S. Hors,
now of Oxford, England, (a name well known to the readers of the
Phycologia Britannica,) I am indebted for a considerable bundle of
well preserved specimens, gathered at Prince Edward’s Island, by
Dr. T. E. Jeans; and to the kindness of my old friend and chum,
ALEXANDER Ensorr, of the Dockyard, Halifax, I owe the opportunity
of a fortnight’s dredging in Halifax harbor, and many a pleasant
ramble in the vicinity.

My personal collections of North American Alge have been made
at Halifax; Nahant beach; New York Sound; Greenport, Long
Island; Charleston harbor; and’ Key West; and are pretty full,
especially at the last named place, where I remained a month.

The few Mexican species which find a place in my work have been
presented to me by Professor J. Agarpu, of Lund, and were collected
by M. Lizpman. Those from California are derived partly from the
naturalists of Captain Beechey’s voyage; a few from the lute Davip
Dovenas; and a considerable number brought by my predecessor, Dr.
Coutter, from Monterey Bay. I have received from Dr. F. J. Ru-
PRECHT, of St. Petersburg, several Algee from Russian America; from
Sir Joun Ricnarpson a tew Algw of the Polar sea; and various spe-
cimens of these plants, which have found their way from the North-
west Coast to the herbarium of Sir W. J. Hooker, have, with the
well-known liberality of that illustrious botanist, been freely placed
at my disposal.

But I should not, in speaking of the Northwest Coast, omit to men-
tion a name which will ever be associated in my mind with that
interesting botanical region, the venerable ArcuiBaLD Menzies, who
accompanied Vancouver, and whom I remember as one of the finest
specimens of a green old age that it has been my lot to meet. He
was the first naturalist to explore the cryptogamic treasures of the
Northwest, and to the last could recal with vividness the scenes he
had witnessed, and loved to speak of the plants he had discovered.
His plants, the companions of his early hardships, seemed to stir up
recollections of every circumstance that had attended their collection,
at a distance of more than half a century back from the time I speak
of. He it was who first possessed me with a desire to explore the
American shores—a desire which has followed me through life, though
as yet it has been but very imperfectly gratified. With this small
tribute to his memory, I may appropriately close this general expres-
ts of my thanks to those who have aided me in the present under-
taking,
LECTURE.

NATURAL. HISTORY AS APPLIED TO FARMING AND
GARDENING,

By Rev. J. G. MORRIS, or Baurimore.

The lecturer commenced by observing, that every American has rea-
son to be proud of the exploits of his countrymen in the field of natural
history. Hxtended tours have been made, and exhausting fatigues have
been cheerfully endured; the most patient investigation has been insti-
tuted, and many magnificent works have been published. Some of
these equal, in splendor of pictorial illustration, those of any other
country, and the literary portion will favorably compare with the
most finished scientific compositions of the world. Audubon’s great
works on our birds and quadrupeds was here especially cited, whilst
proper credit was given to other native illustrated works. The cata-
logue of our naturalists and their books is increasing every year, and.
the facilities for studying the natural history of our country are rapidly
enlarging.

The lecturer mentioned the names of our principal naturalists, ar-
ranged under each branch which they have respectively investigated,
including mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, shells, crustaceans, and
insects.

Whilst much has been accomplished, yet the whole field has not yet
been explored. Our new western territorial acquisitions almost daily
develop new animal treasures, and it will not be many years before
the energy of our students of nature will push their researches to the
utmost limits of our boundaries. Some interesting details were related
of the self-denial and perseverance of our exploring naturalists, whose
adventures have an air of romance truly enchanting.

Several of our State legislatures have made liberal appropriations
for geological and zoological surveys. Massachusetts and New York
were particularly noticed, and a description of the great works on
these subjects, published by them, was given. He noticed the pro-
posal to establish an agricultural college in a northern State some
time ago, in which there was to be a professor of geology, which was
well enough; but the lecturer maintained, that zoology should also
be taught in such an institution, for the farmer should know the habits
and names of the various animals which are injurious to vegetation,
and the best method of checking the mischief done by them, as well
as the nature of his various soils, which geology and agricultural
chemistry teach. The farmer should also be acquainted with the

‘ grasses and forest-trees of his plantation, and thus elevate his noble
132 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

profession to its proper rank among human pursuits, and feel that
the exercise of intellect, as well as of muscle, is highly useful to his
purpose.

The anatomical structure of his domestic animals should also be
studied, so that he may understand the different diseases to which they
are liable.

After an enlargment on the importance of our domestic animals,
field products, and minerals, as sources of wealth and comfort, a few
striking facts were given, demonstrating the immense benefit which a
knowledge of the natural history of some animals and plants has con-
ferred on mankind. Thus, Linné prevented the decay and destruc-
tion of the ship timber in the royal dock-yards of Sweden, by know-
ing the habits of the little insect which occasioned the evil. It was
the same naturalist who first advised the sowing of beach-grass
(Arundo arenaria) to prevent the encroachments of the sea, by fixing
the sands of the shore, in Holland, and this has been tested to some
extent in Massachusetts.

Farmers and gardeners often complain of their fruit being devoured
by birds and other ‘‘vermin,’’ as many call them, and an indiscrimi-
nate slaughter ensues. It is time that correct notions on this subject
should prevail, and all would soon be right if natural history were in-
cluded in the range of general reading.

In proceeding with the lecture, the vertebrate animals that are sup-
posed to be noxious to vegetation were considered. The mammals
were first mentioned. The operations of foxes, rats, weasels, rabbits,
moles, field-mice, squirrels, &c., were alluded to. It was stated that
an English nobleman, instead of destroying the moles in his grounds,
offered a reward for bringing them to him, being assured that they
were more beneficial than injurious, inasmuch as, in their subterranean
wanderings, they destroyed immense numbers of noxious grubs and
beetles.

The birds were next considered, and the conclusion adopted, that the
deestruction of birds has given rise to an infinitely more prejudicial
multiplication of noxious insects than the evils they themselves occa-
sioned. ‘The opinions of eminent naturalists on this subject were
cited, confirmatory of this opinion.

Having considered the vertebrates, or those with a backbone, in re-
lation to this subject, the invertebrate insects, particularly, were next
introduced. It was stated, that they are greater pests and commit
greater ravages, and annoy the farmer and gardener more, than all
other noxious animals together.

After dilating in general on the study of entomology, and the im-
portance of insects in the economy of nature, the lecturer proceeded to
speak of those insects which affect our field crops, garden plants, flower-
ing plants, and, finally, our fruit and forest trees.

Wheat was placed at the head of field crops. Here, naturally, the
Hessian fly first demanded attention. Of this diminutive insect it
hhas been properly said, ‘‘that it is more formidable than an army of
20,000 Hessians would be.’’

Its history was given, and it was made out to be an European in-
sect, and introduced in August, 1776, by the Hessians, who landed on
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 1335

Staten Island, and was brought in the straw used in packing. It was
in that vicinity that it first attacked the wheat-fields, and thence spread
over the country. It was totally unknown in this country before the
Revolution. Its ravages soon began to excite the attention of farmers.
Whole crops were destroyed. Learned societies and agricultural as-
sociations offered rewards for its extirpation. The American Philo-
sophical Society, in 1792, appointed a committee, consisting of Mr.
Jefferson, B. Smith Barton, James Hutchinson, and Caspar Wistar,
to collect and communicate materials for the natural history of the
Hessian fly. So greatly was it dreaded in England, that in 1788 an
order was issued by government, prohibiting the entry of wheat from
the United States into any of the ports of Great Britain. This order
was based on ignorance of the habits of the insect, for it is not the
grain that is affected by it, but the plant alone. It could not be
transported in the grain. The history of the little depredator was
given at length, and its form, &c., illustrated by large drawings.

Its character and transformations, and the mode of its operations on
the wheat-stalk, were enlarged on. After describing its depredations,
it was observed, that if*®Providence had not provided an effectual
means of checking its ravages, they would literally swarm over the
land. This insect is preyed on by at least four others, which were
briefly described. Proper credit was awarded to Dr. Fitch and Mr.
Herrick for their interesting and successful investigations on this sub-
ject. The various remedies proposed were also noticed, but none, as
yet, appears infallible. A rich soil, late sowing, grazing, rolling,
mowing, steeps for the seed, &c., &c., have all been suggested.

The history of another insect infesting our wheat was given, closely
allied to that already considered. This is the wheat fly. They are,
by many, considered the same ; and hence errors and confusion have
arisen. This insect deposites its eggs, not like the Hessian fly, in the
blades of the plant, but in the chaffy scales of the flowers. The larva
works its way into the grain, lives upon its juices, and thus destroys
it. It has, however, powerful enemies in some parasites, but espe-
cially in our common yellow bird, (Lringilla tristis.)

There are other insects which attack stored grains—as a small wee-
is (Calandra remote punctati) and a small moth, (Alucita cerealella,)

C., Ge,

Indian Corn.—This plant is attacked principally by the larva of
a moth, (Gortyna zece,) which penetrates into the soft centre of the
stalk near the ground, which destroys it. There is the larva of
another moth, (Agrotis segetwm,) which attacks the roots and tender
sprouts of the young plants. This is familiarly known as the cut-
worm, though several destructive worms are known by that name.
Various remedies have been proposed for these depredators, but none,
probably, effectual.

Grass.—This is attacked by the grub of a beetle, (Jelolontha
quercina.) The roots are devoured by it. The wire-worm, which is
the larva of a beetle, (later obesus,) is also exceedingly destructive
to grass.

_ In relation to garden plants, the lecturer enumerated the insects
most destructive, and the various methods of exterminating them.
184 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

The insects injurious to fruit trees were more particularly consid-
ered. The history of those attacking the apple, peach, pear, plum,
cherry, grape, &c., was given, and the proper means of destroying
them.

The forest trees of our country have not yet received the scientific
consideration they deserve—that is, as to their economical importance.
They have been named and described, and some splendid illustrated
works have been published upon them, but they have not been culti-
vated with care, and no attention is paid to their preservation. This
is owing to their vast numbers, and it will probably be a century
hence before we shall find it necessary to have a public officer, as they
have in Europe, whose special duty it shall be to superintend the
woods and forests.

Our common hickory tree is sometimes much injured by a beetle,
(Areoda lanigera.) The grubs of the beautiful family of beetles (Bu-
prestide) are wood eaters and borers. The solid trunks and limbs of
sound and vigorous trees are often bored through in various directions
by them, and, of course, destroyed. The grub of a capricorn beetle
(Stenocorus garganicus) inhabits the hickory, and forms long galleries
in the trunk.

The oaks are attacked by the larva of Elaphidion putator, which
perforates the small branches to the extent of six or eight inches. It
lives in the pith, and, when it is full-fed, it eats away all the wood
transversely from within, leaving only the ring of the bark untouched.
It then retires backwards, stops up the end of its hole near the trans-
verse section with the fibres of the wood, and the next strong wind
breaks off the twig, precipitates it to the ground, the larva then comes
out, buries itself in the earth, and there undergoes its transform-
ation.

The pine trees in this country, as well as in Europe, have also
suffered much from an insignificant beetle. Its ravages have been
extensive. <A few years ago there were loud complaints of the depre-
dations of a certain insect on the pine trees of the South, but people,
for the most part, did not know what it was. It is a small beetle,
(Hylobius pales, or picivorus.)

The elm trees in New England, or rather their foliage, is destroyed
by what is there called the canker-worm. It is the larva of a small
butterfly, which is hatched from the egg of the wingless female. She
climbs up the tree by its‘ trunk. To prevent this, the trunk, near the
top, is encircled by a leaden trough, filled with tar or oil, and this
prevents the female from reaching the leaves, on which she deposites
her eggs. For some years back, the elm trees of our State have been
denuded by the larva of an insect. People had heard of the means
employed in New England to prevent the ravages of the worm, and
soon many of our elm trees were furnished with leaden troughs, but
the insect was as mischievous as ever. What was the reason? Sim-
ply this, that the insect in New England is an entirely different one
from ours. That is a butterfly, the wingless female of which is obliged
to crawl up the trunk of the tree; ours is a beetle, the winged female
of which /lies to the tree, and, of course, the leaden trough on the
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 135

trunk will not interfere with its depredations. It is the Galeruca
calmariensis, and is of foreign introduction.

The injuries done to the cedar, locust, and other trees, by insects,
were severally considered.

The Doctor concluded by observing that, if men undertake to destroy
insects, they should know their economy, for otherwise those might
be destroyed which are really beneficial. In scme countries children
are employed for this purpose ; and to give an idea of the numbers of
some species of noxious insects, he stated an instance related by Mons.
Audouin, who was charged by the French Academy of Science to in-
vestigate the habits of a small moth, whose larva was found to be ex-
ceedingly injurious in vineyards in France. During the month of
August, women and children were employed for four days in collecting
the patches of eggs upon the leaves, during which period 186,900
patches were collected, which was equal to the destruction of 11,214,000
eggs. In twelve days, twenty or thirty workers destroyed 40,182,000
eves ; all of which would have been hatched in twelve or fifteen days.

The intimate connexion in which insects stand to man, to domestic
animals, and tovegetable productions, makes them well worthy thecon-
sideration of every one, and particularly of the farmer and gardener.
If we consider the fecundity of many kinds, which sometimes produce
an offspring of several thousands, and also that some species produce
several generations in one season, their numbers cannot be estimated.
All these uncounted myriads derive their nourishment either from
plants or animals in their living state, or from their remains when
dead. From such considerations, we may well be alarmed for our
fields, forests, and gardens.

It would be well for farmers and gardeners to observe closely, and
communicate their observations through the journals of the day. We,
too, after awhile, may have a great national work on this subject, as
most European governments have. Our government, or some well-
endowed institution, could not more usefully spend a sum of money ;
and it is hoped that when an agricultural bureau shall have been es-
tablished here at Washington, we shall have such a work that shall
be worthy the subject and worthy the nation.
a

~

RNA

itt athe indie
Ou wd Ts i fiascehy

a Le Sah ie SIR GD ty ;
rh iy? CM: p! ae wur pb fi { -
ean) ft: rae vi gare ap Tate Th Geey
ee ee aa or bak Ane 4 arr

ie 1? 2
ay a Wd

|

Payer
MiP he

Pp Ra
ee

Fey Aas : Feats
i * J ig :
Te nk mn siete |
ce gO Feeemr ee toe

thers poty hush ‘
ts mat 1
4 iy. -

Ties yniele ae mips PTO TE
. F PFA ey ,* hell aN UT evel { wstt (ha + WA) eMatKth: ihe ih,
; rave “yp. ‘ i . >
: i ee tGDe Oe fy aK! (i nie p tsidag “0 ee aa! a , HQ. be PAS
‘ y , °
i | uae Ska | ee ii. dua

mead 4) Sobithee sw eduteio chile wP eepoaterios
ai Veleal TE 4 soho egal re onal) ont oh
aang 90! Asst cow Na eee ep al
Rae Tia T ‘} pre dy f

Hod Moro hs so ch
i eatin ni bi euldasig ieee ®
A “or y '* ed ; r = Bie) Ep
Rte PhO AMES OSE fe

, Ty A paelt tin < Cit) it Phi vine

Win ‘
pend pie sty a
SOU 2D wo tas * 7 PLN. | iki ‘pide

AT PMA ST .
LECTURE.

INSECT INSTINCTS AND TRANSFORMATIONS.

By Rev. J. G. MORRIS, or BaLtTiImMoRE.

The lecturer began by deploring the neglect of the study of ento-

mology in this country, and gave several reasons why the science has
not been cultivated to the same extent as some other branches of zo-
ology, such as the minuteness of insects, the presumed difficulty of
capturing them, the dislike to killing them, their increased numbers,
the dread many persons have of handling them when living, the
scarcity of books describing our own species, the fear of being ridiculed
by others, &c., &c. In illustration of the latter reason, he re-
lated an anecdote of an English lady of fortune, whose will some dis-
appointed heirs wished to break on the ground of insanity at the time
it was made ; and one reason they strongly urged to prove her dis-
ordered intellect was, that she was fond of catching butterflies, and
studying the habits of insects in general !
» The lecturer proceeded to show that the ever-varying wonders which
the natural history of insects presents, are much more remarkable than
those of other classes of animals. The curious construction of their
frame, their diversified colors, their wonderful instincts, their extra-
ordinary transformations, their beauties and uses, render them objects
worthy of investigation. He showed how extensively the science had
been cultivated in Europe, and gave a brief history of it from the days
of Linné to the present time. He mentioned the names of some of the
most distinguished writers of the present day, and stated some inte-
resting facts relative to the character and immense cost of some of the
illustrated books on the subject. He paid a deserved compliment to
the few entomologists of our own country, and specially cited the
names of Say, Melsheimer, (father and sons,) Harris, LeConte, Randall,
Haldeman, Ziegler, Fitch, and a few others, who hed industriously
pursued the subject.

The difficulties to beginners in this science were alluded to, but it
was demonstrated that no branch of zoology afforded more pleasure in
its prosecution ; and here a general view was taken of the curious
habits of some insects—the arrangement and character of their eyes,
their motions, food, societies, habitations, eggs, affection for their
young, injuries, benefits, propagation, geographical distribution, in-
finite numbers, inexhaustible variety, unequalled beauty, which the
highest skill of the painter cannot imitate; their stratagems in the
pursuit of their prey, their inconceivable industry, and some other
“wonderful phenomena,
138 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

After this general view, the lecturerer dwelt specifically on several
points ; and, first, on the Transformations of Insects. Everybody would
be surprised to see a bird of gorgeous plumage rise out of the earth,
proceeding from a serpent-like worm that had buried itself and re-
mained under ground for several years. This would be an extraordi-
nary metamorphosis, and yet the equivalent of this is occurring every
day during the summer. The butterfly, which sports in the air, and
sips nectar from every flower, was nothing once but a crawling cater-
pillar, which, entombing itself in the coffin or cocoon of its own con-
struction, or changing into a chrysalis, came forth at last the beautiful
animal you now behold it, with its habits, food, appearance, organs,
entirely changed. And the same is true of nearly all insects.

The different states of insects were now spoken of: the egg, larva
or grub, chrysalis and imago, or perfect insect, and the peculiarities of
each dwelt upon. The different modes of transformation were men-
tioned, and some of them were illustrated in full. Many curious and
striking facts in connexion with this head were introduced. The
habits of the ichneumon fies, which lay their eges in caterpillars, by
inserting their ovipositors through their flesh, the larvee of which feed
on the fatty juices of the living caterpillar, and undergo their trans-
formation in the body, and eat their way out as the perfect insect.

The benejits and uses of insects were then exhibited. They are nature’s
scavengers ; the carcases of animals are speedily consumed by the
larvee of various beetles and flies, and there is good ground for Linné’s
assertion that three flies of a certain species will devour a dead horse
as quickly as a lion. Each will produce 20,000 grubs, which, in
twenty-four hours, will devour so much food as to increase their bulk
two hundred fold. The burying beetle inhumes small dead animals,
and ants perform no mean office in this respect. Putrescent vegeta-
bles and decomposing fungi are consumed by beetles, and stagnant
waters are purified by innumerable larva. Noxious insects are kept
within proper: limits by others; wasps destroy multitudes of spiders
and grasshoppers, and the family of ichneumon insects kill thousands
of caterpillars. Ifit were not for the larve of the lady-bird, so com-
mon in our gardens, our roses, and some other flowers, would be de-
stroyed by the parasitic animals upon them. The singular ant-lion,
which lies in wait for its prey in a holein the sand, and most curiously
throws stones at its retreating game, destroys many noxious insects.
Nothing escapes the ruthless attacks of the ichneumons ; they assault
the spider in his web, the bee in his retreat; they find out the larve
of the Hessian fly and kill millions of them. The tiger-beetle preys
on the whole insect race, and the water-beetles are no less cruel on
their congeners. Ants, wasps, hornets, dragon-flies, in a word nearly
all are employed by Providence in keeping down a superabundance of
these little animals, which, if left unmolested, would be a plague on
the earth. Insects are real cannibals ; even some species of caterpil-
lars will devour each other. Some devour their own offspring with
savage ferocity, and the young of the mantis will fall on and devour
each other as soon as they are excluded from the ege.

Insects, wholly or in part, constitute the food of some of our most
esteemed fishes and birds; they afford nourishment to some quadru-
THR SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 139

peds and reptiles ; many of them furnish the best bait to the angler.
In some countries they are eaten and accounted great delicacies, and
we who delight in lobsters, terrapins, and bullfrogs, should not be
squeamish about the Arabs eating locusts, or some people in South
America crunching a centipede with appetite, or making a savory
soup of the grubs of beetles.

Many years ago, the doctors made extensive use of insects in their
practice. Powder of silkworms was given for vertigo ; millepedes for
the jaundice ; fly-water for ear-ache ; five gnats were considered a dose
of excellent physic ; lady-birds for cholic and measles ; ants were in-
comparable for leprosy, and deafness. A learned Italian professor
assures us that a finger once imbued with the juices of a certain beetle
will retain its power of curing tooth-ache for a year!

But it is true that, in Cayenne, one insect produces a lint which is
an excellent styptic, and gum ammonia oozes out of a plant from an
incision made by another. The benefits and uses of the Cantharis, a
Spanish fly, the cochineal, the gall-flies, the bee, silkworms, &c., &c.,
are well known.

Many interesting iilustrations were given of the affection which
many insects have for their young. The selection of the appropriate
place for the deposite of their eggs by the butterfly, the dragonfly,
the horsefly, the wasp, &c.; the gathering of proper food for the
larve ; their protection against natural enemies and the weather ;
these, and other curious facts under this head, were dwelt on at some
length.

The phenomena presented by insect habitations were exhibited very
lucidly. The lecturer stated and proved, that the most ingeniously
constructed hut of the beaver, and the most artfully contrived nest of
the bird, are far surpassed by the habitations of insects. Here he
discoursed on the cells of wasps, and particularly of the honey-bee—
and these latter were illustrated by large drawings—showing that the
bee in the construction of its nest solves a problem in mathematics of
the highest order. He related many interesting phenomena, which
seemed almost incredible to those who had never paid special atten-
tion to this subject. He stated that Dr. Paley was mistaken an as-
serting ‘‘ that the Auman animal is the only one which is naked, and
the only one which can clothe itself,’ by showing that caterpillars of
various moths clothe themselves comfortably and beautifully. Not
only do larvee which live on land construct coverings for themselves,
but some which spend that period of their existence in the water,
They make their coats of sand, grass, and sometimes of minute shells.
The common web, or habitation of the spider, is familiar to all; but
there is one species which excavates a gallery upwards of two feet in
length and half an inch broad. It is furnished at the orifice with a
curiously constructed door, actually turning on a hinge of silk, and,
as if acquainted with the laws of gravity, she invariably fixes the
hinge at the highest side of the opening, so that the door when pushed
up shuts again by its own weight. The habitation of the water-spi-
der is built under water, and is formed, in fact, of air. She first con-
structs a frame-work of her chamber attached to the leaves of aquatic
plants ; she then covers it with a sort of varnish elaborated from her
140 “TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

spinner ; she then introduces bubbles of air, and soon has a commo
dious and dry retreat in the water.

The means of defence which insects employ were also considered.
They assume various attitudes calculated to deceive the beholder ;
many roll themselves up and feign death. One genus, Brachinus, has
‘the wonderful faculty of producing a sound (but not from the mouth)
like the explosions of a pop-gun, and a smoke-like secretion is at the
same time discharged. Other insects eject an acrid fluid from their
mouths ; some defend themselves with their weapons; some have
horns and strong claws ; some have stings; some bite—others pierce ;
bees erect fortifications at the mouth of their hives to defend them-
selves against their enemy, the moth; some cover themselves with
leaves ; some appear only at night, &c., &e.

Numerous instances of the remarkable instincts of insects were
given, and among them that of the common mosquito in the laying
ofits eges. The female poises herself lightly on the water, protrudes
her hinder legs crosswise, and deposites her eggs on the platform thus
formed ; and when she has laid all, to the number of three hundred,
she lets the mass drop on the water, where they are hatched, and in
which they are destined to live in their larva state. This mass of
eggs is not a misshapen cluster, but it has the regular form of a boat,
and is so well poised that the most violent agitation of the water can-
not overset it. Ifit sunk, the eggs would perish ; but they float until
they are hatched, and then the young find their destined place in the
water, in which they undergo their transformation. Other examples
of instinct of caterpillars, wasps, ants, moths, &c., were given.

This led the lecturer, in conclusion, to say something on the nature
of instinct itself.

The French naturalist, Bonner, has said that philosophers will in
vain torment themselves to define “instinct, until they have spent some
time in the head of an animal, without actually being that animal!
Cudworth referred this faculty to a certain plastic nature ; and Des
Cartes maintained that animals are mere machines. Mylius, an old
philosopher, thought that many of the actions deemed instinctive are
the effect of painful corporeal feelings ; the cocoon of a caterpillar, for
instance, being the result of a fit of cholic ; the animal producing the
cocoon by its uneasy contortions, and thus twisting its superabundant
silk material into a regular ball. Some have thought that the brain
of a bee or spider is impressed at its birth with certain geometrical
figures, according to which models its works are constructed. Buffon
refers the instinct of societies of insects to the circumstance of a great
number of individuals being brought into existence at the same time,
all acting with equal force, and “obliged, by the similarity of their
str ucture, and the conformity of their movements, to perform each the
same movements in the same place, whence results a regular, well-
proportioned, and symmetrical structure. Addison and some ‘others
have thought, as Kirby reports, that instinct isan immediate and con-
stant impulse of the Deity. The only opinion which deserves serious
consideration is that which contends for the identity of instinct with
reason in man, Some great names are arranged on this side, and it
‘ THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 141

is the view commonly taken by those who have not investigated the
subject. It involves consequences which are dangerous, and, of course,
erroneous,

If we allow reason to animals, we must admit some monstrous ab-
surdities. The bee must be the best mathematician and philosopher ;
the young bird must be the best architect ; the spider the best weaver ;
the beaver the best house-builder, &c., &c.

There is no progressive improvement in insect architecture; no
labor-saving machinery employed ; each species has its limited capa-
city, and there its powers cease ; neither is instinct improved by do-
mestication, &e.

The lecturer then returned to his specific theme, and by numerous
examples showed that insect instinct seemed to be more exquisite than
that of higher animals; they showed more cunning, more art, more
adaptation, than other animals.

He closed by expressing the hope that he had awakened some in-
terest in this long neglected subject. That though insects are small
animals, yet ‘‘the meanest thing hath greatness in it,’’ for all things
bear the impress of the Almighty maker: Omnia plena sunt Jovis; and
in our investigations into the secrets of nature, we are led to praise

‘¢ Him first, Him last, Him midst,
Him without end.’’
ext hats ea

fi ibe i
7 Sad 0 [

irae Iyer eS Nenpnets., .
nv. reriasaelll Sah ve Pia wer * | +

iy rid ated pers pe ny, ‘3
ee 2)

oun a , et iP : ; 5 ert J er 7 P ‘-. : he ~
Ladle, Feet SS eek ia bei
PUAREA ION bape Sais e oe

ete tej eee ag

ope agit
ey ee *

ax eal els Leb

t uh: eboney ta . 4 A big’ uit el }
pace ‘yh Lubes abe Woe fred oe |
> avs ; oper ft ite +75 te 4 armel srutl  SARee i =
oo Tem if iPod rer wer De -
‘ welt 4 a a Dieu @ nu ica
in S> cane box antl ete
2.4 Stee Gi & ee nein Siquele
| ot hethyeras: srg stand weitceia 3

pes ae sieeve ll cha hacia és
(how * etree eae eral Ye. sa
Oe ar aediv soatt asargole tie
pt C0 eter peo en ea
en iA x - aes ren usc ets Ir od a “7h
rerteenntes Side vakosaibe Sang nel
dey titqentt EEO rl satin eee tee
’ Set, Sete HON a wt 7 oY Geage ete eden
say #6 estates cibshibety'? aielayivirroey Saece: oa onwtasreay eee
saat ‘gyliind ve Ore ed ee Lepmpsione eat te, — E
faansreris tind ~~ Danica mi? wa! vo anil face oo =o
Sah Anite et al eh sere te oahu 5; ag Dis init am, 48 ; i3 a oe
| , aphier's ofS a ef ae ew versjondn dose: Ve eae na partin:
| RAW CLLs at! ra | baer Pi abe 4eoe cag aeba: at ras
seh  Minmda raMmaOMG irraoEce |
oa, aetgah nitausan ‘ey ——e
ree gman .

LECTURE.

OXYGEN AND ITS COMBINATIONS.

BY PROF. GEO. J. CHACE,
OF BROWN UNIVERSITY.

Combustion or the rapid union of bodies with oxygen, attended with
the free evolution of light and heat, takes place only at temperatures
more or less elevated. Phosphorus, the substance most readily ig-
nited, does not kindle till it has been raised to 120° Fahrenheit. | Sul-
phur, the next most inflammable body, must be raised to the tempera-
ture of 300° before it will begin to burn. Charcoal kindles only at
the full red heat. Anthracite coal requires a temperature somewhat
higher ; while iron and most of the other metals must be brought to
the glowing white heat before they will enter into combustion.

As this rapid union of bodies with oxygen takes place only where
their affinities have been energized by rise of temperature, it rarely
occurs in nature; never, in fact, except where the lightning falls
upon the forest or the prairie, or the volcano sends forth its burning
streams of lava. As ordinarily witnessed, it is brought about by
artificial means for the attainment of economical and industrial ends.

In order that oxygen may unite with bodies at ordinary tempera-
tures, if must be presented to them in connexion with water. Dry
oxygen, whether pure or mingled with nitrogen, as in the atmospheric
air, has no action upon them. With the single exception of potassium,
all the metals may be exposed to it for an indefinite length of time
without alteration. The most perishable organic substances in like
manner remain unchanged in it. Neither do these bodies suffer
change in water from which the air has been removed ; but, exposed
to the combined action of air and water, or rather to the action of air
dissolved in water, all organic substances and nearly all the metals
pass more or less rapidly into the state of oxides. It is in this way
that oxidation in nature is universally effected.

The solvent powers of water are scarcely greater for solids than for
gases. Of some of these it absorbs several hundred times its volume.
For oxygen and nitrogen, however, the two principal constituents of
the atmosphere, its affinity is less energetic. Of the former, it ab-
sorbs but 43 per cent. ; and of the latter, only 23 per cent. of its vol-
ume. On account of the greater solubility of the oxygen, the air ob-
tained from water is richer in this element than ordinary atmospheric
sir. This contains only about 20 per cent. of its volume of oxygen ;
while the air extracted from water contains more than 30 per cent. of
its volume of oxygen.
144 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

As the water at the earth’s surface is everywhere in contact with
the air, it is always more or less perfectly saturated withit. Although
the oxygen is continually being withdrawn by the respiration of
aquatic animals, and also by decaying animal and vegetable matters,
fresh portions of this element are as constantly taken in from the at-
mosphere. This process of absorption is materially facilitated by
agitation at the surface of contact between the two fluids. Hence the
winds play an important part in keeping the superficial portions of
the oceans, seas, and lakes charged with oxygen.

Water is thus the great transferer of oxygen from the atmosphere
to the various organic and mineral substances entering into union
with it. The thinner the stratum of water interposed between the air
and the oxydizing body, the more rapidly is the transfer effected.
Hence metals with a mere film of water upon their surface, such as
they gather from a damp atmosphere, corrode much faster than when
deeply buried in that fluid. Metals with rough surfaces, also, when
exposed to a damp atmosphere, rust sooner than metals whose sur-
faces have been polished. These latter, on account of their feebler
attraction for moisture, do not so readily gather the requisite film
of water; or if it be precipitated upon them, it quickly passes off
by evaporation, as is seen in the case of the highly polished knife
or razor.

If a sheet of iron be placed in a damp atmosphere, or in water con-
taining air, the phenomena observed will beas follows: Fora time the
metal will retain its brightness and apparently suffer no change. At
length, however, minute spots of rust make their appearance here and
there upon its surface. These, when they have once begun to form,
rapidly enlarge and multiply until ere long the entire sheet is over-
spread by them. This more rapid oxydation is probably caused by
a change in the electric state of the metal. Little galvanic circles are
formed by the spots of rust on the iron, in consequence of which the
latter acquires an increased tendency to unite with oxygen. Whether
the incipient oxydation is due to a similar influence of the water upon
the iron, or whether it is owing to the oxygen being presented by the
water in a state more favorable to combination, or whether both of
these causes concur in determining it, may admit of question.

Copper, lead, tin, and zinc, exposed to a moist atmosphere, or
placed in water holding air in solution, exhibit like phenomena.
Hence the corrosion of the copper sheathing of vessels by sea-water.
Hence, too, the frequent contamination of well and spring water by
the leaden pipes employed in conveying it. In both cases, the first
step in the series of transformations which occur, is the union of the
metal with the oxygen dissolved in the water. Silver and gold, in
similar circumstances, experience no change. Sulphur, and not oxy-
gen, is the agent by which they are tarnished.

This rapid wasting of the metals, after oxydation has once com-
menced, finds an analogy in the moral world. The first spot of rust
is the first lapse from virtue, the first stain of vice. And as that spot
of rust, if not promptly removed, enlarges and spreads until it soon
covers the whole surface of the metal ; so that first act of vice, if not
speedily repented of, becomes a habit by repetition, which continues
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 145

to grow and strengthen until at length it extends its blighting influ-
ence over the entire character. But though there be this resemblance
in the commencement and progress of the two cases, there is a wide
difference in the results. In the first instance it is only the corrosion
of a comparatively worthless price of metal ; in the second, it is the
wasting, the blackening, the ruin of a human soul,

The alterations which organic bodies undergo, when no longer per-
vaded by the principle of life, are due to the attacks of oxygen, di-
rected still through the medium of water. In themselves they have
no tendency to change. The first movement among their atoms is
always impressed from without. It is the interposition of new affini-
ties that breaks up the existing combinations and determines a re-
arrangement of the particles. The most delicate viands, hermetically
sealed in canisters from which the air has been removed, may go
round the world unaltered. Fruits hermetically sealed in their skins
are in like manner preserved from decay. When the skin is broken
or has become so changed in texture as to admit the air, decay at once
commences. Timber sunk in mud or water to so great a depth as to
be beyond the reach of oxygen, will remain unchanged for centuries.
The preservative powers of alcohol do not depend simply upon its co-
agulating the albuminous constituents of the animal and vegetable
tissues, and depriving them of a portion of their water ; it shields the
substances buried in it from the attacks of oxygen. Phosphorus,
which soon blackens in water from superficial oxydation, undergoes
no change in alcohol. In water the protoxide of iron soon runs into
the peroxide. In alcohol, it remains unaltered. Turpentine and
most of the essential oils owe their preservative qualities in a great
measure to the exclusion of oxygen. The salts, bitumen, and aro-
matic gums employed by the ancient Egyptians in embalming, were
not simply of service in drying and hardening the animal tissues—
their chief use was in shutting out the oxygen. Whatever does this
renders the bodies most liable to decay incorruptible.

As in the case of the metals, the thinner the stratum of the water
interposed between organic substances and the surrounding atmo-
sphere, the more rapidly is the oxygen transferred to them. Hence
wood, hay, straw, and the fibres of cotton decay faster if simply
wetted, than if wholly immersed in water. Some of these when in
large quantities and pervaded by a due degree of moisture, become so
heated in the interior of the mass as to pass from the ordinary to the
extraordinary mode of oxydation, thus furnishing an instance of
what is called spontaneous combustion. Vegetable mould and the
organic constituents of manures decompose more rapidly in a sandy
soil which allows the water to percolate it freely, than in a clayey
soil which retains the water. One of the chief benefits of drainage
consists in the freer admission of the air to all parts of the soil. The
organic matters contained in it are more rapidly oxydized and con-
verted into food for plants. If to alcohol, so far diluted as to admit
' the air among its particles, there be added some vegetable ferment, it
will pass, by oxydation, into acetic acid and water. Many weeks, or
even months, however, may be required for completing the transform-
ation. But if the same mixed fluid be brought in contact with the

10
146 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

air in thin lamine, as by causing it to trickle slowly through a per-
forated cask filled with wood shavings, a few hours will be found suf-
ficient to effect perfectly its oxydation. ;

The tendency of bodies to unite with oxygen is greatly increased
if the product of their union be capable of acting as a base by the
presence of an acid ; or if it be capable of acting as an acid, by the
presence of a base. Thus iron, copper, lead, and tin, corrode much
faster in acidulated than in pure water. Even the small quantity of
carbonic acid always present in rain and spring water materially
facilitates the oxydation of the metals immersed in them. There is
superadded to the affinity of the metals for the oxygen that of their
oxides for the acid; and if the resultant salt chance to be soluble,
their surface is kept constantly fresh for the corrosive action. The
oxydation of lead by water becomes a source of contamination only
when there is an acid present to unite with the oxide formed, and
render it soluble. The wasting of the copper sheathing of vessels by
sea-water is due not merely to the oxygen, but to the contained salts
with which the copper, either as an oxide or as a carbonate, enters
into reactions.

The arts avail themselves of this principle in the manufacture of
salts. The sulphate of copper is formed by the repeated immersion of
sheets of the metal in sulphuric acid so far diluted with water as to
give it the power of absorbing oxygen. The same metal exposed to
the combined influence of air, water, and acetic acid, passes into an
acetate. Lead, under like circumstances, is converted into an acetate ;
or, if the proper conditions be secured, the acetic acid as well as the
lead suffers oxydation, and a carbonate is produced. It is in this way
that white lead is ordinarily manufactured.

If the body uniting with oxygen form an acid, the combination will
be facilitated by the presence of a base. This fact explains why. the
decay of organic substances is hastened by lime, potash, or soda.
There is superadded to their affinity for oxygen, the affinity of these
powerful bases for the products of their oxydation. Even gold and
platinum, if heated in the air, in contact with either of the alkalies,
suffer oxydation. Nitrogen, though ordinarily manifesting so little
affinity for oxygen, spontaneously unites with it when the two gases
are dissolved in water and brought together in the presence of an
alkali or an alkaline earth. It is probably in this manner that the
nitrates, natural as well as artificial, are for the most part formed.

As oxygen and water, the medium through which it is presented,
are both universally diffused, bodies have a constant tendency to unite
with it, and if left to themselves, do in fact, sooner or later, pass to
the state of oxides. This is their natural or statical condition ; and
although they may be temporarily reclaimed, they cannot be pre-
vented from ultimately reverting to it. Metals find their way back
to the state of ores from which they have been brought. The bodies
of animals and plants, so long as life continues, are, indeed, exempt
from the attacks of oxygen; but no sooner does life cease than they
are laid hold of by this universal, omnipresent element, and fast con-
verted into the substances from which they were formed. The work
of their demolition is assisted by innumerable insects, which, pursuing
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 147

them at all points, allow the destroyer freer access to every part of
their tissues.

Were it not for this dissolving agency of oxygen, the earth would
be everywhere strewn with the undecaying remains of plants and
animals. These, accumulating generation after generation, would en-
cumber its surface, until at length it would become one great charnel-
house filled with the unburied dead.

Oxygen thus performs the part of an undertaker. It removes the
dead out of our sight. And as in the case of the human undertaker,
the graves to which it consigns the lifeless forms intrusted to it, are
not eternal. They, too, give up their dead. The elements of the de-
caying tree, plant and animal, although for a time lost to our sight,
at length reappear in new organic forms, clothed with fresh life and
beauty.

Of the same nature is the office performed by oxygen in respiration.
Penetrating with the blood all parts of the body, it passes by the
living, but everywhere attacks the dead cells and prepares them for
removal from the system. It is only by oxydation that the material
of these cells becomes soluble, and it is only ina state of solution that
they can be borne out of the living organism. Every breath is
freighted with exhalations from the funeral pyres of unnumbered
corpses.

In this oxydation of tissue, which is constantly going forward, cer-,
tain imponderable agents or forces indispensable to the living functions
are liberated. In every part of the body heat is evolved, and in the
brain, that more subtle fluid, which directed along the different ner-
vous channels, controls the movements of the entire frame. The
true source of animal motive power is not to be sought in the endow--
ments of spirit. This merely directs, it does not originate it. Voli-.
tion is the touch of the key by the operator of the telegraph. Unless.
supplied with the requisite force by the brain, the will might as easily
create an arm as move it. As in the steam-engine and the electro-
magnetic engine, so in the animal organism oxydation is the true
source of the power generated.

The nitrogen of the atmosphere is a mere diluent of the oxygen.
It takes no part in any of the work performed by the latter. Nay,
it stands in the way of the latter, and by its physical presence hin-
ders its activities. This is, indeed, its intended office and function. ©
Did oxygen compose the entire atmosphere, bodies coming in contact
with it at points five times more numerous than they now do, would
waste away too rapidly under its action. By the interposition of the
nitrogen its activities are kept within the proper limits, while at the
same time the atmosphere has the weight and density necessary for
its mechanical functions.

Those oxydizing processes so universally in progress would soon.
cease from the exhaustion of subjects, were there no provisions in na-
ture for their continued supply. Such provisions, however, are found
in the vegetable organism. In the. leaves of plants while under the
influence of the sun’s rays, water and carbonic acid, the sulphates
and the phosphates, undergo re-solution. The greater part of the
oxygen is thrown off, while the hydrogen, carbon, sulphur, and phos-
148 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

phorus are wrought into the vegetable tissues. The vast bodies of
bituminous and anthracite coal occurring in different parts of the
earth, were once floating in the atmosphere in the form of carbonic
acid and water, and it is only by passing through the organisms of
plants that they have been brought to their present state. The food
of animals has all been, in like manner, deoxydized. Indeed the
leaf of the plant may be regarded as an apparatus specially designed
for the application of the solar beam to the reduction of carbon, hy-
drogen, sulphur, &e., from the state of oxides. It is only the rays
of the sun that can effect this, and the rays of the sun are capable of
effecting it only in the leaf of the plant. Hence the interposition of
the vegetable between the mineral and the animal kingdoms. Ever
where man would effect the reduction of any of the metals from their
ores, he is obliged to resort to some substance which has been deoxy~
dized by the solar beam in the leaf of the plant.

All deoxydized bodies, therefore, whatever their immediate origin,
are representations of sun power. Sun pewer has actually been ex~
erted, either directly or indirectly, in their production. And when
they revert to the state of oxides, there is an evolution of force equal
in amount to that which was expended in their isolation. Hence the
real source of steam-power, of electro-magnetic power, and of animal
motive power. All of those in the last analysis resolve themselves
into sun power, directed through the mechanism of the vegetable cell
to the re-solution of oxides.

We have thus far contemplated oxygen asa dissolving agent. We
have seen that it literally goes about seeking what it may destroy.
Although respecting the living, and passing by them unharmed, it
everywhere attacks the organic forms from which life has departed
and quickly resolves them into the elements from which they were
formed.

But oxygen is not simply a destroying agent. It takes to pieces
the bodies of the dead only that it may find materials for repairing
and building up those of the living. The hydrogen and the carbon
which it gathers from the decaying wood or the mouldering dust, it
conveys into the leaf of the growing plant. Having there deposited its
purden, it issues again and recommences its wanderings in search of
a new one to have a like destination. Could we see oxygen, could we
make it visible not only to the mind’s eye, but to the eye of sense, as
it speeds on its beneficent mission, we might then observe two little
winged atoms floating along upon the buoyant air, until at length
lighting upon some decaying matter, they lay hold of an atom of car-
bon, and taking it up as the two shining ones on the farther side of the
river took up Bunyan’s pilgrim, bear it away, not to the golden city,
but up among the green leaves and beautiful flowers, there to minis-
ter to and have part in their verdure and beauty. In observing this,
we should recognise oxygen in its most characteristic and habitual
office of carrier between the dead and the living. Indeed, at every
ae of that great cycle through which life and death move hand in

and, the activity of this element is most conspicuous. While by an
irreversible law, inscrutable as it is irreversible, life in our world
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 149

everywhere terminates in death ; through the appointed instrumental-
ity of this agent, new life as constantly springs from its ashes.

Oxygen, therefore, performs the office of restorer as well as de-
stroyer. It is the Vishnu as well as Siva of the Hindoo triad, and, in
nature, its action in both capacities is a beneficent one.

On the products of man’s labor, however, its agency is less kindly.
These, so far as they consist of materials capable of entering into union
with it, gradually waste away under its influence, like the dead forms
of plants and animals. Iron, subserving so many and so important
uses, entering so largely not only into the construction of the tools
and implements of the mechanic arts, but into the products of these
arts—iron, exposed to the combined influence of air and water, quickly
begins to corrode, and, in spite of its strong bands of cohesion, soon
crumbles into dust. Implements and structures of brass are scarcely
more enduring. Wood, and everything formed of it or reared from
it, yield to the same law of decay. ‘‘ Dust thou art, and unto dust
thou shalt return,” is written not only of man himself, but of all,
even the most enduring of his works. Even in that strange land
where the finger of time touches with such marvellous lightness, the
most strenuous and persevering efforts to resist this law of decay have
proved unavailing. The pyramid and the obelisk crumble, while
“Miriam cures wounds and Pharaoh is sold for balsam.’’ Man’s
only hope of immortality must come from his higher, his spiritual
nature; that acknowledges not corruption as its father; that is un-
changing, exempt from all touch of decay, immortal, eternal, like the
Great Being in whose image it was formed. But it is a law of all
material, all earthy, all sublunary things, to change, moulder, decay,
pass away ; and the great principle, or agent, or instrument of this
decay, this dissolution, is oxygen, whose office and ministry in nature
we have this evening been contemplating.
feu gree

ea aa Bey, a ss :

rod Aas a a Sie ee me 4 ;

ai Wanen.e Ai EO. ee: eae
iyi ning ii ey a ons

nee

een Ne alten
se u jody ssvitiee i? et

shh cress wend Bind
mi ‘ ry, hi aA -
Row 5 er me) thi i af a, vig ined, Pe a P
[eae i ds ss Ba © i uf ir ok i a dy ae : r ”
mo ee ped ale mh if a : ae yd), 4: mn a ais A Leet is nee The ae
: al Fae ; rary | / er ‘ y
te =o ¥ hi 7 - i 7; ; ji , ; 4 ‘av * Mh +7 aS é oN . ; 1 aR, th
Mi Pee is is ies a De +e
ro ? ; ee 1 me
ee ee Mita ht
t ’ A Ye ea ’ ‘oh: oe pales 3
ee j ‘ ¥ i sae iy ue we
Sh © cd, ; x A ; hy hi oe es
" », a A rf i i me
: er ry 4 ie
: Nett : v)

eg
Pan se si ae sania eee

; it ue

LECTURE
ON METEORIC STONES.

BY J. LAWRENCE SMITH, M. D.,
PROF. OF CHEMISTRY IN THE MEDICAL DEPT. OF THE UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE, KY.

The class of bodies which form the subject of this lecture are those
solid masses which, from time to time, are seen to fall from the heavens
to the earth, and bear the name of meteorites, meteoric stones, or
aériolites, the former not being as appropriate a name as the two last.
They are divided into two great classes, stony and metallic, which in
their turn may be subdivided. The fall of the former is much more
frequent than that of the latter, amounting to ninety-six per cent. of
those discovered.

The masses before you are beautiful specimens of the metallic variety.
One of them was found near Tazewell, Claiborne county, Tennessee ;
the second, in Campbell county of the same State ; and the third, in
Coahuila, Mexico. The following is their history and description :

Fig. 1.

—
= ee
= SSS

1. The meteoric iron from Tazewell, Tennessee (Fig. 1).—This mete-
orite was not observed to fall, but was found in August, 1853, it doubt-
less having fallen at a period very much earlier than that of its dis-
covery. The weight of this meteorite was fifty-five pounds. It is ofa
flattened shape, with numerous conchoidal indentations, and three
annular openings passing through the thickness of the mass near the
outeredge. ‘T'wo or three places on the surface are flattened, as if other

- portions were attached at one time, but had been rusted off by a pro-
152 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

cess of oxydation that has made several fissures in the mass, so as to
allow portions to be detached by the hammer, although when the
metal is sound the smallest fragment could not be thus separated, it
being both hard and tough. Its dimensions are such that it will just
lie in a box 13 inches long, 11 inches broad, and 53 inches deep.

The exterior is covered with oxyd of iron, in some places so thin as
hardly to conceal the metal, in other places a quarter of an inch deep.
Its hardness is so great that it is almost impossible to detach portions
by means of a saw. Its color is white, owing to the large amount of
nickel present; and a polished surface when acted on by hot nitric acid
displays in a most beautifully regular manner the Widmannstiittian
figures. The specific gravity of three fragments selected for their
compactness and purity, was from 7.88 to 7.91.

The following minerals have been found to constitute this meteorite :
Ist. Nickeliferous iron, forming nearly"the entire mass. 2d. Proto-
sulphuret of tron, found in no inconsiderable quantity on several parts
of the exterior of the mass. 3d. Schreibersite, found more or less
mixed with the pyrites and in the crevices of the iron, in pieces from
the thickness of the blade of a penknife to that of the minutest par-
ticles. 4th. Olivine ; two or three very small pieces of this mineral
have been found in the interior of the iron. 5th. Protochlorid of
tron; this mineral has been found in this meteorite in the solid state,
which I believe is the first observation of this fact ; it was found in a
crevice that had been opened by a sledge hammer, and ig the same
crevice Schreibersite was found. Chloride of iron is also found deli-
quescing on the surface ; some portions of which, however, are entirely
tree from it, while others again are covered with an abundance of rust
arising from its decomposition.

Besides the, above minerals, two others were found—one a silicious
mineral, the other in minute rounded black particles; both, however,
were in too small quantity for anything like a correct idea to be formed
of their composition.

The analyses of the metallic portion furnished in two specimens
were as follows:

Nol Wl: No. 2.

TOU. 3s isies's die Sein a oniileelste ae ene atamies «wate colt lee aeieanes Bape OMiets iene 83.02
Nickel vs. 5)cc05./: RSet eee odie semen mes AOA fo. ois. welneh eEy Om
Cobalt, ....,..ccsise setmelamee aememrens [oy UR MR a rcs So She 3 ld ant: a re 50
Copper:........:0s 2 eeneeeaeaee aeemenn ds at » mero. cieee ae BOD) wiscd cchuwaivns 06
Phosphorus... Spar Be ice ofeis's spiorapisiald <attaleiaeaia fal G. justia aise 19
Chiorine..........¢emeneee Bee nce ikeeeaeaen Net)! lskaulabsaseme .02
* Sulphur ..........2eneee eee eee sce Be ae 5p el 08
RHIC fats 03 « «ean .nine «nla ae ARE ne aimee sale sist Seeen agai s AG. dn ieee 84
MiG mOS12..... «siess's\icnaet cee eM cnae 2c Sseawamaiac” | hy ttc eee 24
98.55 99.57

Tin and arsenic were looked for, but neither of those substances
were detected.

The composition of the nickeliferous iron corresponds to five atoms
of iron and one of nickel.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. LHS

Tie nl s «aad Fechainae jodsvad akon Chin's uid MR ae OE x laa be . 82.59
MNirelcaleveil tO! cties ss dsndede pubes) ss SER ee 17.41—=100.00

Schreibersite is found disseminated in small particles through the
mass of the iron, and is made evident by the action of hydrochloric
acid ; it is also detected in flakes of little size, inserted as it were into
the iron; and owing to the fact that in many parts where it occurs,
chloride of iron also exists; this last has caused the iron to rust in
crevices, and on opening these, Schreibersite was detached mechani-
cally. This mineral as it exists in the meteorite in question, so closely
resembles magnetic pyrites that it can be readily mistaken for this
latter substance, and I feel confident in asserting that a great deal of
the so-called magnetic pyrites associated with various masses of mete-
oric iron, will, upon examination, be found not to contain a trace of
sulphur, and will, on the contrary, prove to be Schreibersite that can
be easily recognised by its characters.

Its color is yellow or yellowish white, sometimes with a greenish
tinge; lustre metallic; hardness 6; specific gravity 7.017. No .regu-
lar crystalline form was detected ; its fracture in one direction is con-
choidal. It is attracted very readily by the magnet, even more so
than magnetic oxyd of iron; it acquires polarity and retainsit. I
have a piece ;8, of an inch long, ;> of an inch broad, and {5 of an
inch thick, which has retained its polarity over six months; unfortu-
nately the polarity was not tested immediately when it was detached
from the iron, and not until it had come in contact with a magnet, so
that it cannot be pronounced as originally polar.

Three specimens of the Schreibersite were examined, and gave re-
sults as follows:

1 B 8.

2 9 cho a 57.22 56.04 56.53
SRR eso cad ce evr Sasa sateen pias sen sins 25.82 26.48 28.02
PEM teh tnaa icaceeseskereatocbarer sites. anes 0.32 0.41 0.28
eet ns ish PES or. Abdeeleaalto slants ‘race not estimated.
PPM DOT WS) 3 adds asiiels seldesiddaeabioeeevaacees 13.92 14.86
Peed ich wcceiqamhianplagaGhitees ar dames eo Miee 1.62
PRU SSAA eat asst a yn sR Vasclcls Banka E OS He 1.63
PEM eR Ig As SNOT nh cn dregs vw pinwio trace not estimated.
ROUEN Ges ericlas «AAs pion ca gears Omit ann «v0. 0.18

100.66 99.69

The formula of Schreibersite, I consider to be Ni,Fe,P.
Per cent

OS ph OVS peste ener cs ana ncie's Se rer latom 15.47
MRGCEL., . 62). 0k Cee goer a lbvistencv ses e sie 200 Dae 29.17
MAA ier, «6 Yje0 5c ee resind eo onset voons 6 sees : Ane 55.36

This mineral, although not usually much dwelt upon when speak-
ing of meteorites, is decidedly the most interesting one associated with
this class of bodies, even more so than the nickeliferous iron. In
breaking open one of the fissures of this Tazewell meteorite, a small
amount of a green substance was obtained that was easily soluble in
154 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

water, and although not analyzed quantitatively, it left no doubt
upon my mind as to its being protochlorid of iron; and the manner
of its occurrence gave strong evidence of its being an original consti-
tuent, and not formed since the fall of the mass. Chloride of iron
was apparent on various parts of the iron, by its deliquescence on the
surface.

2. The meteoric iron from Campbell county, Tennessee.—This meteor-
ite was discovered in July, 1853, in Campbell county, in Stinking
creek, which flows down one of the narrow valleys of the Cumberland
mountains, by a Mr. Arnold, and was presented to me by Professor
Mitchell, of Knoxville. It is of an oval form, 24 inches long, 1?
broad, and 3 thick, with an irregular surface and several cavities per-
forating the mass. It was covered with a thin coat of oxyd; and on
one-half of it chloride of iron was deliquescing from the surface, while
on another portion there was a thin silicious coating. ‘The iron was
quite tough, highly crystalline, and exhibited small cavities on being
broken, resembling very much in this respect, as well as in many other
points, the Hommony creek iron; a polished surface when etched, ex-
hibited distinct irregular Widmannstiittian figures. The weight is 4
ounces. Specific gravity, 7.05. The lowness of the specific gravity is
accounted for by its porous nature. The composition is as follows:

MOTUS obs kath anivevoaeacs Daawe sh tueakeh en pear ee tae ck Maaeee dance «Ree 97.54
MUTCEON S555. sas bs jatiae Fete dee Seoasiedee a Chas Sales obibale aiastowte See haabtonee 0.25
ODA os cs sk nah Gad Minch edot aor. w saleeam doled buss teramlecomae aellactomaere 0.6
Copper, too small to be estimated.

Gar opi 2235 ade tian chee ate Sta sbinii'h dbbaad aA ee aioe 1.50
Pilios plows sts. aries. deaeee dat tacornon Seetaune se dae ce veeger ne Laaaee 0.12
NTO EAU RUE wise ck wate ed een cae Mee eres ae 1.05

100.52

Chlorine exists in some parts in minute proportion. The amount
of nickel, it will be seen, is quite small, but its composition is, never-
theless, perfectly characteristic of its origin.

Fig. 2.

3. The metéoric iron from Coahuila, Mexico (Fig. 2.)—This meteor-
ite, now in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, was brought
to this country by Lieutenant Couch, of the United States army, he
having obtained it at Saltillo. It was said to have come from the San-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 155

cha estate, some fifty or sixty miles from Santa Rosa, in the north of
Coahuila; various accounts were given of the precise locality, but none
seemed very satisfactory. When first seen by Lieutenant Couch, it
was used as an anvil, and had been originally intended for the Society
of Geography and Statistics in the city of Mexico. It is said, that
where this mass was found there are many others of enormous size;
but such stories, however, are to be received with many allowances.
Mr. Weidner, of the mines of Freiberg, states, that near the south-
western edge of the Balson de Mapimi, on the route to the mines of
Parral, there is a meteorite near the road of not less than a ton weight.
Lieutenant Couch also states, that the intelligent, but almost unknown,
Dr. Berlandier writes, in his journal of the Commission of Limits, that
at the Hacienda of Venagas, there was (1827) a piece of iron that
would make a cylinder one yard in length, with a diameter of ten
inches. It was said to have been brought from the mountains near
the Hacienda. It presented no crystalline structure, and was quite
ductile.

The meteorite now before you (see Fig. 2) weighs 252 pounds, and
from several flattened places I am led to suppose that pieces have
been detached. The surface, although irregular in some places, is
rather smooth, with only here and there thin coatings of rust, and, as
might be expected, but very feeble evidence of chlorine, and that only
on one or two spots. The specific gravity is 7.81. It is highly erys-
talline, quite malleable, and not difficult to cut with the saw. Its
surface etched with nitric acid, presents the Widmannstittian figures,
finely specked between the lines, resembling the representation we
have of the etched surface of Hauptmannsdorf iron. Schreibersite is
visible, but so inserted in the mass, that it cannot be readily detected
by mechanical means. Hydrochloric acid leaves a residue of beauti-
fully brilliant patches of this mineral.

Subjected to analysis, it was found to contain

Ry TI A nic cet a ce Mee vaocersitncloeds demas stelb sins qataee etmek nah seleia 95.82

PEIN PRRs, Gian e inateradsecintwsceeedsanksnpriodswosacasis 0.35

ee tad dain lh ai natu lieatabee sMnedcls oueas tedetenat dabiteids detec s 3.18

Copper, minute quantity, not estimated.

POs PNG RUS 4. anzinaee sentences tse a astinialp Bead ede sac aac tengo 0.24
99.59

Which corresponds to
Nickeliferous iron........... Pin aa eal aale'> ates aaee tmcie 98.45
Beh ret nerette win niccag scvoeee's. oslentislne wabio'e ait Jf hab walt 1.55

a

The iron is remarkably free from other constituents.

The specimen is especially interesting as the largest mass of mete-
oric iron in this country next to the Texas meteorite at Yale College.

The three meteorites just described form an interesting addition to
those already known, a very complete list of which has been lately
156 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

made by Mr. R. P. Greg, jr., to which I would refer all those specially
interested in this subject. It is to be found in the Lond. Phil. Mag.
for 1854.

A fact of much interest is that the number of meteorites already
discovered in the United States is quite large, and, contrary to the
general rule, the iron masses are the most numerous. The following
table, by Mr. Greg, jr., shows at a glance the number of meteorites
already found in different countries, the proportions of the stones and
irons, and the average latitude of their localities.

| |

Countries. Stones. Trons. Total. Average lati-
tude.
QO.
United Statesic 42 22 spo 3osj- ec ae 19 36 55 35 N.
Bavaria, Prussia, Germany----.------ 38 6 44 5EN.
rance MS Mee. SAS Peer aoe oe 34 I 35 46 N.
Lombardy, Piedmont, Sicily, Italy. ---- 3 1 34 3 N.
Hungary. Bohemia, Austria -.-.----~- 28 5 33 48 N.
Sapa On ass. 5 ee oe eee nee senate Zig) wae eee 23 18 N.
Ceyloniand India: i 22562224 2 Sees 19 3 22 20 N.
Ireland and Great Britain...-...----- 20 1 21 Does
Hnropean MRuSside = j-S2 2 se~ aos ceoe 14 1 15 54.N.
Wiest Imdiesvand Mexico. 225-52. -.-< 2 10 12 25 N.
Asta; Minor Creve, Dorkey soos.) soso 10 1 I 40 N.
Fortugaland! Spam se= - aoe Se eee Qa Wl ee eee ee 9 40 N.
PoutihwAnne nica Set. 2 epee Dak oe 1 8 9 20 8.
inland: and wslberiac == 2 <9 oes 4 3 7 63 N.
Egypt, Arabia, and North Africa------ 6 il a 30 N.
SoubhVAtricd..22 Shea sek eee ne eee 2 2 4 30 S.
Tartary, Persia, and Central Asia. ----- 1 2 3 35. N.
Greenland s:: jas sashe52 eee see 1 2 3 65 N.
Sywatzerland sssco2 282 eee meee eae Hate een te em 2 46 N.
Swicdenhie Bare x ue onsets 2 oe i as iB ee ees 1 60 N.
Salhdwichiisiandsse= =sseee see eee ae ee Seem ee 1 20 N.
PING ales alge a Pee Pee eet crepe na prem me TF eer Ht 10 8.

Canadan sie sui. seeds ec iees sete ceest cleaner sae 1 ddepiy vs Sa A ea

The number of these bodies which fall annually cannot be well
determined. In the last sixty years the average falls observed are
ten per annum ; but of course the actual number must have far ex-
ceeded this, and some authors have supposed that not less than five
eS must fall annually on various parts of the surface of the
globe.

In this lecture our object is not to enter into a detailed account of
all the peculiarities of appearance of meteoric stones, either while
falling or after their descent. The more immediate object is to
consider the probable origin of these bodies; yet it is of general in-
terest to mention some of those peculiarities before proceeding to the
theoretical discussion.

Meteoric stones, as they fall, frequently exhibit light; are sometimes
accompanied by a noise, and occasionally burst into several fragments.
All of these phenomena are produced after they enter our atmo-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 157

sphere, which they do at a very great velocity ; heat is developed in
them by their friction against the air; the iron they contain is sub-
ject to combustion, which is augmented by the condensed condition
of the atmosphere before the object while in rapid motion. All this
suffices for the production of the light exhibited. Light does not
always accompany the fall of these bodies—-a fact which, it is reason-
able to suppose, belongs especially to the masses of iron, which, from
the compact nature of their structure, and their great conductibility,
cannot become so readily heated on the surface as to reach the point of
incandescence. The noise is produced by their rapid motion through
the air, and their bursting by the combined effects of irregular expan-
sion by heat, and certrifugal force produced by irregular resistance of
the atmosphere ; the latter being alone sufficient to bring about such
a result, as is shown by the shooting of stone balls from a cannon.
The velocity of these bodies will be discussed in another part of this
lecture.

The lessons to be learned from meteorites, both stony and metallic,
are probably not as much appreciated as they ought to be; we are
usually satisfied with an analysis of them and surmises as to their
origin, without due consideration of their physical and chemical char-
acteristics.

The great end of science is to deduce general principles from parti-
cular facts. Thus terrestrial gravitation has been extended to the
whole solar system, and, indeed, to the whole visible universe. The
astronomer, however, has only proved the universality of this one law,
and has found no evidence that any other force observed at the surface
of the earth displays itself in any other sphere. However probable it
may appear that the same laws affect terrestrial and celestial matter,
it is none the less interesting to extend our proofs of this assumption,
and meteorites, when looked upon in this light, acquire additional in-
terest.

First. They lead us to the inference that the materials of the earth
are exact representatives of those of our system, for up to the present
time no element has been found in a meteorite that has not its coun-
terpart on the earth ; or if we are not warranted in making such a
broad assumption, we certainly have the proof, as far as we may ever
expect to get it, that some materials of other portions of the universe
are identical with those of our earth.

Second. They show that the laws of crystallization in bodies foreign
to the earth are the same as those affecting terrestrial matter, and in
this connexion we may instance pyroxene, olivine and chrome iron,
affording, in their chrystalline form, angles identical with those of
terrestrial origin.

Third. The most interesting fact developed by meteorites is the
universality of the laws of chemical affinity, or the truth, that
the laws of chemical combination and atomic constitution are to be
equally well seen in extra-terrestrial and terrestrial matter ; so that
were Dalton or Berzelius to seek for the atomic weights of iron,
silica or magnesia, they might learn them as well from meteoric
minerals as from those taken from the bowels of the earth. The
158 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

atomic constitution of meteoric anorthite, or of pyroxene, is the same
as of that which exists in our own rocks.

An important peculiarity of the stony meteorites is, that their
outer surface is covered with a coating strongly resembling pitch ;
this is a species of glass formed from the heated condition to which
the meteorite arrives in its passage through the air, the heat acquired
being sufficient to fuse the outer surface. The black color is due to
the protoxide of iron combining with the silica. In most instances
the protoxide is formed from the oxydation of the particles of metallic
iron in the mass.

Keeping in view then the physical and chemical characters of mete-
orites, I propose to offer some theoretical considerations which, to be
fully appreciated, must be followed step by step. These views are
not offered because they individually possess particular novelty; it is the
manner in which they are combined to which especial attention is called.

The first physical characteristic to be noted is their form. No
masses of rock, however rudely detached from a quarry, or blasted
from the side of a mountain, or ejected from the mouth of a volcano,
would present more diversity of form than meteoric stones ; they are
rounded, cubical, oblong, jagged, and flattened. Now, the fact of
form I conceive to be a most important point for consideration in re-
gard to the origin of these bodies, as this alone is strong proof that
the individual meteorites have not always been cosmical bodies ; for
had this been the case, their form must have been spherical or sphe-
roidal. As this is not so, it is reasonable to suppose that at one time
or another they must have constituted a part of some larger mass.
But, as this subject will be taken up again, I pass to another point—
namely, the crystalline structure ; more especially that of the iron,
and the complete separation in nodules, in the interior of the iron, of
sulphuret and phosphuret of the metals constituting the mass. When
this is properly examined, it is seen that these bodies must have been
in a plastic state for a great length of time, for nothing else could
have determined such crystallization as we see in the iron, and allow
such perfect separation of sulphur and phosphorus from the great bulk
of the metal, combining only with a limited portion to form particu-
lar minerals. No other agent than fire can be conceived of by which
this metal could be kept in the condition requisite for the separatiozi.
If these facts be admitted, the natural inference is that they could
only have been thus heated while a part of some large body.

Another physical fact worthy of being noticed here, is the manner
in which the metallic iron and stony parts are often interlaced and
mixed, as in the Pallas and Atacama specimens, where nickeliferous
iron and olivine in nearly equal portions (by bulk) are intimately
mixed, so that when the olivine is detached, the iron resembles a very
coarse sponge. ‘This is an additional fact in proof of the great heat
to which the meteorites must have been submitted; for, with our
present knowledge of physical laws, there is no other way in which
we can conceive that such a mixture could have been produced. Other
physical points might be noticed ; but as they would add nothing to
the theoretical considerations, they will be passed over.

The mineralogical and chemical points to be noted in meteorites are
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 159

as follows: The rocks or minerals of these bodies are not of a sedi-
mentary character, nor such as are produced by the action of water.
This is obvious to any one who will examine them. A mineralogist
will also be struck with the thin dark-colored coating on the surface
of the stony meteorites ; but this isin most, if not in all instances,
the product of our atmosphere, and need not be further noticed. A
more interesting peculiarity is that metallic iron, alloyed with nickel
and cobalt, is of constant occurrence in meteorites, with but three or four
exceptions—in some instances constituting the entire mass, at other
times disseminated in fine particles through stony matter. The ex-
istence of this highly oxydizable mineral in its metallic condition is
a positive indication of a scarcity, or total absence, of oxygen (in its
gaseous state, or in the form of water) in the locality from whence the
body came.

Another mineralogical character of significance is, that the stony
portions of the meteorites resemble the older igneous rocks, and par-
ticularly the volcanic rocks belonging to various active and extinct
voleanoes. It is useless to dwell on this fact; the inference to be
drawn from it is very evident. It is highly significative of the igne-
ous origin of these bodies, and of an igneous action in other portions
of space similar to that now existing in our volcanoes.

Ever since the labors of Howard in 1802, the chemical constitution of
meteorites has attracted much attention, more especially the elements
associated in the metallic portion; and although we find no new ele-
ments, still their association, so far as yet known, is peculiar to this
class of bodies. Thus nickel is a constant associate of iron in meteor-
ites, (if we except the Walker county, Alabama, and Oswego, New
York, meteorites, upon whose claims to meteoric origin there yet re-
mains some doubt ;) and although cobalt and copper are mentioned
only as occasional associates, in my examination of nearly thirty
known specimens (in more than one-half of which these constituents
were not mentioned) I have found both of the last-mentioned metals
as constantly as the nickel. With our more recent method of sepa-
rating cobalt from nickel, very accurate and precise results can be
obtained relative to the former. The copper exists always in such
minute proportion, that the most careful manipulation is required to
separate it.

Another element frequently, but not always, occurring in associa-
tion with the iron is phosphorus. Here again an examination of thirty
specimens of this substance leads me to a similar generalization, namely,
that no meteoric iron is to be expected without it; my examination
has extended as well to the metallic particles separated from the stony
meteorites as to the meteoric irons proper. It may be even further
stated, that, in most instances, the phosphorus was traceable directly
to the mineral Schreibersite.

These four elements, then, (iron, nickel, cobalt, and phosphorus,)
I consider remarkably constant ingredients: first, in the meteoric
irons proper ; and secondly, in the metallic particles of the stony me-
teorites ; there being only some three or four meteorites, among hun-
dreds that are kgown, in which they are not recognised.

As regards the cémbination of these elements, it is worthy of re-
160 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

mark that no one of them is associated with oxygen, although all of
them have a strong affinity for this element, and are never found (except
copper) in the earth uncombined with it, except where some similar
element (as sulphur, &c.) supplies its place.

The inference of the absence of oxygen in a gaseous condition, or in
water, is drawn from such substances as iron and nickel being in their
metallic state, as has been just mentioned ; but it must not be inferred
that oxygen is absent in all forms at the place of origin of the meteor-
ites, for the silica, magnesia, protoxyd of iron, &c., contain this
element. The occurrence of one class of oxyds and not of another
would indicate a limited supply of the element oxygen, the more oxyd-
izable elements, as silicon, magnesium, &c., having appropriated it in
preference to the iron. ~

Many other elements worthy of notice might be mentioned here,
and some of them, for aught we know, may be constant ingredients ;
but in the absence of strong presumption, at least, on this head, they
will be passed over, as those already mentioned suffice for the support
of the theoretical views to be advanced.

I cannot, however, avoid calling attention to the presence of carbon
in certain meteorites ; for although its existence is denied by some
chemists, it is nevertheless a fact that can be as easily established as
the presence of the nickel. ‘The interest'to be attached to it is due to
the fact that it is so commonly regarded in the light of an organic
element. It serves to strengthen the notion that carbon can be of
pure mineral origin, for no one would be likely to suppose that the
carbon found its way into a meteorite, either directly or indirectly,
from an organic source.

Having thus noted the predominant physical, mineralogical, and
chemical characteristics of meteorites, I pass on to the next head.

Marked points of similarity in the constitution of meteoric stones.—
Had this class of bodies not possessed certain properties distinguishing
them from terrestrial minerals, much doubt would even now be enter-
tained of their celestial origin, even in those cases where the bodies
were seen to fall. But chemistry has entirely dissipated all doubts
on this point, and now an examination in the laboratory is entitled
to more credit than evidence from any other source in pronouncing on
the meteoric origin of a body. When the mineralogical and chemical
compositions of these bodies are regarded, the most ordinary observer
will be struck with the wonderful family likeness presented by them
all.

There are three great divisions of meteoric bodies, namely: metallic;
stony, with small particles of metal; and a mixture of metallic and
stony in which the former predominates, as in the Pallas and Atacama
meteorites. The external appearances of these three classes differ in
a very marked manner; the meteoric iron being ordinarily of a com-
pact structure, more or less corroded externally, and, when cut, show-
ing a dense structure with most of the peculiarities of pure iron, only
alittle harder and whiter. The stony meteorites are usually of a grey
or greenish grey color, granular structure, readily broken by a blow
of the hammer, and exteriorly are covered with a thin coating of fused
material. The mixed meteorite presents characters of both of the
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 161

Above ; a large portion of it consists of the kind of iron already men-
tioned, cellular in its character, and the spaces filled up with stony
materials, similar in appearance to those constituting the second class.

Although there are some instances of bodies of undoubted meteoric
origin not properly falling under either of the above heads, still they
will be seen, upon close investigation, not to interfere in any way
with the general conclusions that are attempted to be arrived at; for
these constituents are represented in the stony materials of the second
class, from which their only essential difference consists in the ab-
sence of metallic particles.

If we now examine chemically the three classes mentioned, we find
them all possessed of certain common characteristics that link them
together, and at the same time separate them from everything terres-
trial. Take first the metallic masses ; and in very many instances, in
some fissure or cavity, exposed by sawing or otherwise, stony mate-
rials will frequently be found, and a stony crystal is sometimes ex-
posed : now examine the composition of these, and then compare the
results with what may be known of the stony meteorites, and in every
instance it will agree with some mineral or minerals found in this
latter class, as olivine or pyroxene, most commonly the former; but
in no instance is it a mineral not found in the stony meteorites. If
these last, in their turn, be examined, differing vastly in their ap-
pearance from the metallic meteorites, they will, with but two or
three exceptions, be found to contain a malleable metal identical in
composition with the metal constituting the metallic meteorites.

As to the mixed meteorites in which the metallic and stony por-
tions seem to be equally distributed, their two elements are but rep-
resentatives of the two classes just described. Examined in this way,
there will be no difficulty in tracing their connexion.

There is one mineral which there is every reason to believe con-
stantly accompanies the metallic portions, and which may be regarded
as a most peculiar mark of difference between meteorites and terres-
trial bodies. It is the mineral Schreibersite, (mentioned in the first
part of this lecture,) to which the constant presence of phosphorus in
meteoric iron is due. This mineral, as already remarked, has no
parallel on the face of the globe, whether we consider its specific or
generic character ; there being no such thing as phosphuret of iron
and nickel, or any other phosphuret, found among minerals. These
facts render the consideration of Schreibersite one of much interest,
running, as it probably does, through all meteorites, and forming
another point of difference between meteorites and terrestrial objects.

Another striking similarity in the composition of meteorites is the
limited action of oxygen on them. In the case of the purely metallic
meteorites we trace an almost total absence of this element. In the
stony meteorites the oxygen is in combination with silicon, magne-
sium, &c., forming silica, magnesia, &c., that combine with small
portions of other substances to form the predominant earthy minerals
of meteorites ; and when iron is found in combination with oxygen,

it occurs in its lowest state of oxydation, asin the protoxyd of the
olivine and chrome iron, and as magnetic oxyd.

Without ig OME further into detail as regards the similarity of com-
162 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

position of meteorites, they will be seen to have as strongly marked
points of resemblance as minerals coming from the same mountain,
I might almost say from the same mine ; and it is not asking much to
admit their having a common centre of origin, and that whatever may
be the body from which they originate, it must contain no uncom-
bined oxygen, and, I might even add, none in the form of water.

I shall now speak of the origin of meteoric stones. In taking up the
theoretical considerations of the subject of the lecture, it is of the ut-
most consequence not to consider shooting stars and meteoric stones
as all belonging to the same class of bodies—a view entertained by
many distinguished observers. It is doubtless less owing to the fact of
their having been confounded, that there exists such a difference of
opinion as to the origin of these bodies.

It may be considered a broad assumption that there is not a single
evidence of the identity of shooting stars and the meteors which give
rise to meteoric stones; but this conclusion is one arrived at by as
full an examination of the subject as | am capable of making.* Some
of the prominent reasons for such a conclusion will be mentioned.

Were shooting stars and meteoric stones the same class of bodies,
we might expect that the fall of the latter would be most abundant
when the former are most numerous. In other words, the periodic
occurrences of shooting stars in August and November, and more par-
ticularly the immense meteoric showers that are sometimes seen,
ought to be attended with the fall of meteoric stones ; whereas there is
not a single occurrence of this kind on record. Again: in all in-
stances where a meteoric body has been seen to fall, and has been
observed even from its very commencement, it has been alone, and not
accompanied by other meteors.

Another objection to the identity of these bodies is the difference in
velocity. That of the shooting stars can readily be determined by
the simultaneous observations of two observers ; and it has been found
that their average rate of motion is about 16} miles a second, while,
in order that they should revolve around the earth through the atmo-
sphere, their velocity must be less than six miles a second. Now, we
know that the meteors do enter our atmosphere, and probably often
pass through it without falling to the earth; but as the most correct
observations have never given a velocity of less than nine miles a
second to a shooting star, it is reasonable to suppose that none have
ever entered our atmosphere, or, what is perhaps still more probable,

* Prof. D. Olmsted, in a most interesting article on the subject of meteors, to be found.
in the 26th volume of the Am. Journal of Science, p. 132, insists upon the difference be-
tween shooting stars and meteorites, and the time and attention he has devoted to the
phenomena of meteors give weight to his opinion.

+ Under this head, I will merely note what is considered one of the best established
cases of the determination of velocity of a meteoric stone, namely, that of the Weston
meteorite, the velocity of which Dr. Bowditch estimated to ‘‘ exceed three miles a second.”’
Mr. Herrick considers the velocity somewhat greater, and writes, among other things,
what follows: :‘'The length of its path, from the observations made at Rutland, Vermont,
and at. Weston, was at least 107 miles. This space being divided by the duration of the
flight, as estimated by two observers, viz., 80 seconds, we have for the meteor’s relative
velocity about three and a half miles a second. ‘The observations made at Wenham, Massa~
chusetts, are probably less exact in this respect, and need not be mentioned here.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 163

that the matter of which they are composed is as subtle as that
of Encke’s comet, and any contact with even the uppermost limit
of the atmosphere destroys their velocity and disperses the matter
of which they are composed.

Other grounds might be mentioned for supposing a difference be-
tween shooting stars and meteoric stones, and | have dwelt on it thus
much because it is conceived of prime importance in pursuing the
correct path that is to lead to the discovery of their origin.

Various theories have been devised to account for the origin of the
meteorites. One is that they are small planetary bodies revolving
around the sun, and at times become entangled in our atmosphere,
lose their orbital velocity by the resistance of the air, and fall finally
to the earth; another supposes them to have been ejected from vol-
canoes of the moon; and lastly, they are considered as formed from
particles floating in the atmosphere. The exact nature of this last
theory is given by Professor C. U. Shepard, in an interesting re-
port on meteorites published in 1848. He* says: ‘‘ The extra-terres-
trial origin of meteoric stones and iron masses seems likely to be more
and more called in question with the advance of knowledge respecting
such substances, and as additions continue to be made to the connected
sciences. Great electrical excitation is known to accompany volcanic
eruptions, which may reasonably be supposed to occasion some chemi-
cal changes in the volcanic ashes ejected ; these being wafted by the
ascensional force of the eruption into the regions of the magneto-polar
influence, may there undergo a species of magnetic analysis. The
most highly magnetic elements, (iron, nickel, cobalt, chromium, &c.,)
or compounds in which these predominate, would thereby be separated
and become suspended in the form of metallic dust, forming those
columnar clouds so often illuminated in auroral displays, and whose
position conforms to the direction of the dipping needle. While cer-
tain of the diamagnetic elements, (or combinations of them,) on the
other hand, may. under the control of the same force, be collected
into different masses, taking up a position at right angles to the
former, (which Faraday has shown to be the fact in respect to such
bodies,) and thus produce those more or less regular arches, transverse
to the magnetic meridian, that are often recognised in the phenomena
of the aurora borealis.

«<Any great disturbance of the forces maintaining these clouds of
meteor-dust, like that produced by a magnetic storm, might lead to
the precipitation of portions of the matter thus suspended. If the
disturbance was confined to the magnetic dust, iron masses would fall ;
if to the diamagnetic dust, a non-ferruginous stone; if it should ex-
tend to both classes simultaneously, a blending of the two characters
would ensue in the precipitate, and a rain of ordinary meteoric stones
would take place.

“‘The occasional raining of meteorites might, therefore, on such a

© I must, in justice to Professor Shepard, say that since this lecture was delivered he
has informed me that he no longer entertains these views; and I would now omit the
criticism of them did they not exist in his memoir uncontradicted, and also were they
not views still entertained by some.
164 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

theory, be as much expected as the ordinary deposition of moisture
from the atmosphere. The former would originate in a mechanical
elevation of volcanic ashes and in matter swept into the air by torna-
does; the latter from simple evaporation. In the one case, the matter
is upheld by magneto-electric force ; in the other, by the law of diffu-
sion, which regulates the blending of vapors and gases, and by tem-
perature. A precipitation of metallic and earthy matter would hap-
pen on any reduction of the magnetic tension ; one of rain, hail, or
snow, on a fall of temperature. The materials of both originate in
our earth. In the one instance they are elevated but to a short dis-
tance from its surface, while in the other they appear to penetrate
beyond its farthest limits, and possibly to enter the inter-planetary
space ; in both cases, however, they are destined, through the opera-
tion of invariable laws, to return to their original repository.’’

This theory, or rather hypothesis, coming as it does from one who
is justly entitled to high consideration, from the fact of the special
attention he has given to the subject of meteorites, may mislead, and
for this reason the objections which may be advanced against it ought
to be stated. First, it must be proved that terrestrial volcanoes con-
tain all the varieties of matter found in the composition of meteoric
bodies. It is true that many of the substances are ejected from vol-
canoes, as olivine, &c., but then the principal one, nickeliferous iron,
has never in a single instance been found in the lava or other matter
coming from volcanoes, although frequently sought for.

But the physical obstacles are a still more insuperable difficulty in
the way of adopting this theory. In the first place it is considered a
physical impossibility for tornadoes or other currents of air to waft
matter, however impalpable, ‘‘ beyond the farthest limits of the earth,
and, possibly, into interplanetary space.’’ Again, if magnetic and
diamagnetic forces cause the particles to coalesce and form solid
masses, by the cessation of those forces the bodies would crumble into
powder.

We pass on to a concise statement of some of the chemical objections
to this theory of atmospheric origin, and, if possible, they are more
insuperable than the last mentioned. Contemplate for a moment the
first meteorite described in this lecture—a mass of iron of about sixty
pounds of a most solid structure, highly crystalline, composed of nickel
and iron chemically united, containing in its centre a crystalline phos-
phuret of iron and nickel, and on its exterior surface a compound of
sulphur and iron, also in atomic proportions—and can the mind be
satisfied in supposing that the dust wafted from the crater of a voleano
into the higher regions of the atmosphere could, in a few moments of
time, be brought together by any known forces so as to create the body
in question ? However finely divided this volcanic dust might be, it
can never be subdivided into atoms, a state of things that must exist
to form bodies in atomic proportions, where no agency is present to
dissolve or fuse the particles. One other objection and I have done
with this hypothesis. The particles of iron and nickel supposed to be
ejected from the volcano must pass from the heated mouth of a crater,
ascend through the oxygen of the atmosphere without undergoing the
slightest oxydation ; for if there be any one thing which marks the
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 165

meteorites more strongly than any other, it is the freedom of the masses
of iron from oxydation except on the surface. But a still more re-
markable abstinence from oxydation would be the ascent of the parti-
cles of phosphorus to form the Schreibersite traceable in so many me-
teorites.

Having noticed the prominent objections to this hypothesis, I pass
on to consider, in as few words as possible, the other two suppositions.

The most generally adopted theory of the origin of meteoric bodies
is that they are small planetary bodies revolving around the sun, one
portion of their orbit approaching or crossing that of the earth; and
from the various disturbing causes to which these small bodies must
necessarily be subjected, their orbits are constantly undergoing more
or less variation, until intersected by our atmosphere, when they meet
with resistance and fall to the earth’s surface in whole or in part ;
this may not occur in their first encounter of the atmosphere, but re-
peated obstructions in this medium at different times must ultimately
bring about the result. In this theory their origin is supposed to be
the same as that of other planetary bodies, and they are regarded as
always having had an individual cosmical existence. Now, however
reasonable the admission of this orbital motion immediately before and
for some time previous to their contact with the earth, the assumption
of their original cosmical origin would appear to have no support in
the many characteristics of meteoric bodies as enumerated before. The
form alone of these bodies is anything but what ought to be expected
from a gradual condensation and consolidation ; all the chemical and
mineralogical characters are opposed to this supposition. If the ad-
vocates of this hypothesis do not insist on the last feature of it, then
it amounts to but little else than a statement that meteoric stones fall
to us from space while having an orbital motion. In order to entitle
this planetary hypothesis to any weight it must be shown how bodies,
formed and constructed as these are, could be other than fragments of
some very much larger mass.

As to the existence of meteoric stones in space travelling in a special
orbit prior to their fall, there can be but little doubt, when we con-
sider their direction and velocity ; their composition proving them to
be of extra-terrestrial origin. ‘This, however, only conducts in part
to their origin, and those who examine them chemically will be con-
vinced that the earth is not the first great mass that metoric stones
have been in contact with, and this conviction is strengthened when
we reflect on the strong marks of community of origin so fully dwelt
upon.

It is, then, with the consideration of what was the connexion of these
bodies prior to their having an independent motion of their own,
that this lecture will be concluded.

It only remains to bring forward the facts already developed to ex-
hibit the plausibility of the hypothesis of the lunar origin of meteoric
stones.

It was originally proposed as early as 1660, by an Italian phi-
losopher, Terzago, and advanced by Olbers in 1795, without any
knowledge of its having been before suggested ; it was sustained by
Laplace, with all his mathematical skill, from the time of its adoption
bd

166 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF |

to his death ; it was also advocated, on chemical grounds, by Berze-
lius, whom I have no reason to believe ever changed his views in re-
gard to it ; and to these we have to add the following distinguished
mathematicians and philosophers: Biot, Brandes, Poisson, Quetelet,
Arago, and Benzenberg, who have at one time or another advocated
the lunar origin of meteorites.

Some of the above astronomers abandoned the theory—among them
Olbers and Arago; but they did not do so from any supposed defect in
it, but from adopting the assumption that shooting stars and mete-
orites were the same, and on studying the former and applying the
phenomena attendant upon them to meteorites, the supposed lunar
origin was no longer possible.

On referring to the able researches of Sears C. Walker on the peri-
odical meteors of August and November, (Am. Phil. Soc.,) it will be
found that astronomer makes the following! remarks: ‘‘ in 1836, OL
bers, the original proposer of the theory of 1795, being firmly con-
vinced of the correctness of Brandes’s estimate of the relative velocity
of meteors, renounces his selenic theory, and adopts the cosmical theo-
ry as the only one which is adequate to explain the established facts
before the public.”’

For reasons already stated, it appears wrong to assume the identity
of meteorites and shooting stars; so that whatever difficulty the phe-
nomena of the latter may have interposed as to the hypothesis of the
origin of meteoric stones, it now no longer exists. Had Olbers
viewed the matter in this light, he would doubtless have retained
his original convictions, to which no material objection appears to
have occurred to him for forty years.

It is not my object to enter upon all the points of plausibility of
this assumed origin, or to meet all the objections which have been
urged against it. The object now is simply to urge such facts as
have been developed in this lecture, and which appear to give strength
to the hypothesis. They may be summed up under the following
heads :

1. That all meteoric masses have a community of origin.

2. At one period they formed parts of some large body.

3. They have all been subject to a more or less prolonged igneous
action corresponding to that of terrestrial volcanoes.

4. That their source must be deficient in oxygen.

5. That their average specific gravity is about that of the moon.

From what has been said under the head of common characters of
meteorites, it would appear far more singular that these bodies should
have been formed separately, than that they should have at some time
constituted parts of the same body ; and from the character of their
formation, that body should have been of great dimensions. Let us
suppose all the known meteorites assembled in one mass, and regarded
by the philosopher, mindful of our knowledge of chemical and physi-
cal laws. Would it be considered more rational to view them as the
great representatives of some one body that had been broken into
fragments, or as small specks of some vast body in space that at one
period or another has cast them forth? The latter it seems to me is
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 167

‘the only opinion that can be entertained in reviewing the facts of the
case.

As regards the igneous character of the minerals composing meteor-
ites, nothing remains to be added to what has already been said ; in
fact no mineralogist can dispute the great resemblance of these min-
erals to those of terrestrial volcanoes, they having only sufficient
difference in association to establish that although igneous, they are
extra-terrestrial. The source must also be deficient in oxygen, either
in a gaseous condition, or combined, as in water ; the reasons for so
thinking have been clearly stated as dependent upon the existence of
metallic iron in meteorites—a metal so oxydizable that in its terrestrial
associations it is almost always found combined with oxygen, and
never in its metallic state.

What, then, is that body which is to claim common parentage of
these celestial messengers? Are we to look at them as fragments of
some shattered planet whose great representatives are the thirty-three
asteroids between Mars and Jupiter, and that they are ‘‘ minute out-
riders of the asteroids,’’ (to use the language of R. P. Greg, jr.,* in
a late communication to the British Association,) which have been
ultimately drawn from their path by the attraction of theearth? For
more reasons than one this view is not tenable. Many of our most
distinguished astronomers do not regard the asteroids as fragments
of a shattered planet; and it is hard to believe, if they were, and the
meteorites the smaller fragments, that these latter should resemble
each other so closely in their composition—a circumstance that would
not be realized if our earth was shattered into a million of masses,
large and small.

If, then, we leave the asteroids and look to the other planets, we find
nothing in their constitution, or the circumstances attending them, to
jead to any rational supposition as to their being the original habita-
tion of the class of bodies in question. This leaves us, then, but the
moon to look to as the parent of meteorites ; and the more I contem-
plate that body the stronger does the conviction grow, that to itall .
these bodies originally belonged.

It cannot be doubted, from what we know of the moon, that it is
constituted of such matter as composes meteoric stones ; and that its
appearances indicate volcanic action, which when compared with sim-
ilar action on the face of the globe, is like Aitna contrasted with an
ordinary forge, so great is the difference. The results of volcanic
throws and outbursts of lava are seen, for which we seek in vain any-
thing but a faint picture on the surface of our earth. » Again, in the
support of the present view it is clearly established that there is neither
atmosphere nor water on the surface of that body, and, consequently,
no oxygen in those conditions which would preclude the existence of
metallic iron.

Another ground. in support of this view is based on the specific
gravity of meteorites—a circumstance that has not been insisted on ;
and although of itself possessing no great value, yet, in conjunction
with the other facts it has some weight.

= See the able paper of R. P. Greg, jr., in the Lond. Phil. Mag.
168 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

In viewing the cosmical bodies of our system with relation to their
densities, they are divided into two great classes—planetary and com-
etary bodies, (these last embracing comets proper and shooting stars,)
the former being of dense, and the latter of very attenuated matter ;
and so far as our knowledge extends, there is no reason to believe
that the density of any comet approaches that of any of the planets.
This fact gives some grounds for connecting meteorites with the plan-
ets. Among the planets there is also a difference, and a very marked
one, in their respective densities ; Saturn having a density of 0.77 to
0.75, water being 1.0; Jupiter 2.00-2.25 ; Mars 3.5-4.1; Venus 4.8—
5.4; Mercury between 7 and 36; Uranus 0.8-2.9; that of the Harth
being 5.67.* If, then, from specific gravity we are to connect meteor-
ites to the planets, as their mean density is usually considered about
3.0,f they must come within the planetary range of Mars, Harth, and
Venus. In the cases of the first and last we can trace no connexion,
from our ignorance of their nature and of the causes that could have
detached them.

This reduces us then to our own'planet, consisting of two parts—the
planet proper with a density of 5.76, and the moon with a density of
about 3.62.t On viewing this, we are at once struck with the relation
that these bear to the density of meteorites, a relation that even the
planets do not bear to each other in their densities.

As before remarked, I lay no great weight on this view of the den-
sity, but call attention to it as agreeing with conclusions arrived at
on other grounds.

The chemical composition is also another strong ground in favor of
the lunar origin. This has been so ably insisted on by Berzelius and
others, that it would be superfluous to attempt to argue the matter
any further here; but I will simply make a comment on the disregard
that astronomers usually have for this argument. In the memoir on
the periodic meteors by Sears C. Walker, already quoted from, it is
stated, “The chemical objection is not very weighty, for we may as
well suppose a uniformity of constituents in cosmical as in lunar
substances.’’ From this conclusion it is reasonable to dissent, for as
yet we are acquainted with the materials of but two bodies, those of
the earth and those of meteorites, and their very dissimilarity of con-
stitution is the strongest argument of their belonging to different
spheres.. In further refutation of this idea it may be asked, is it to
be expected that a mass of matter detached from Jupiter, (a planet
but little heavier than water,) or from Saturn, (one nearly as light as
cork,) or fromeEncke’s comet, (thinner than air,) would at all accord
with each other or with those of the earth? It is far more rational to
suppose that every cosmical body, without necessarily possessing ele-
ments different from each other, yet are so constituted that they may

* For these estimates of the densities of the planets, the author is indebted to
Prof. Peirce. ‘

+ Although the average specific gravity of the metallic and stony meteorites is greater,
yet the latter exceeding the former in‘quantity, the number 3.0 is doubtless as nearly
correct as can be ascertained.

{ Although the densities of the earth and moon differ, these two bodies may consist
of similar materials, for the numbers given represent the density of bodies as wholes ;
the solid crust of the earth for a mile in depth cannot average a density of 3.0.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 169

‘be known by their fragments. With this view of the matter, our
specimens of meteorites are but multiplied samples of the same body,
and that body, with the light we now have, appears to have been the
moon.

This theory is not usually opposed on the ground that the moon is
not able to supply such bodies as the meteoric iron and stone ; it is
more commonly objected to from the difficulty that there appears to
be in the way of this body’s projecting masses of matter beyond the
central point of attraction between the earth and moon. Suffice it to
say, that Laplace, with all his mathematical acumen, saw no difficulty
in the way of this taking place, although we know that he gave
special attention to it at three different times during a period of
thirty years, and died without discovering any physical difficulty in
the way. Also, for a period of forty years, Olbers was of the same
opinion, and changed his views, as already stated, for reasons ‘of a
different character. And to these two we add Hutton, Biot, Poisson,
and others, whose names have been already mentioned.

Laplace’s view of the matter was connected with present volcanic
action in the moon, but there is every reason to believe that all such
action has long since ceased in the moon. This, however, does not
invalidate this theory in the least, for the force of projection and
modified attraction to which the detached masses were subjected, only
gave them new and independent orbits around the earth, that may
endure for a great length of time before coming in contact with the
earth.

The various astronomers cited concur in the opinion, that a body
projected from the moon with a velocity of about eight thousand feet
per second, would go beyond the mutual point of attraction between
the earth and moon, and already having an orbital velocity, may be-
come a satellite of the earth with a modified orbit.

The important question, then, for consideration, is the force requisite
to produce this velocity. The force exercised in terrestrial volcanoes
varies. According to Dr. Peters, who made observations on Altna,
the velocity of some of the stones was 1,250 feet a second, and obser-
vations made on the peak of Teneriffe gave 3,000 feet a second. Assu-
ming, however, the former velocity to be the maximum of terrestrial
volcanic effects, the velocity with which the bodies started (stones
with specific gravity of about 3.00) must have exceeded 2,000 feet
a second to permit of an absorbed velocity of 1,250 feet through the
denser portions of our atmosphere.

When we regard the enormous craters of elevation on the moon’s
surface, the great elevation of these above the general surface, and
the consequent internal force required to elevate the melted lava that
must have at one time poured from their sides, it is not irrational to
assume that bodies were projected from lunar volcanoes at a velocity
exceeding seven or eight thousand feet per second. I know that Prof.
Dana, in a learned paper on the subject of lunar volcanoes, (Am. J.
Sci., [2], ii, 375,) argues that the great breadth of the craters is no
evidence of great projectile force, the pits being regarded as boiling
craters, where force for lofty projection could not accumulate. Al-
though his hypothesis is ingeniously sustained, still, until stronger
170 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

proof is urged, we are justified, I think, in assuming the contrary to be
true, for we must not measure the convulsive throes of nature at all
periods by what our limited experience has enabled us to witness.

With the existence of volcanic action in the moon without air
or water, I have nothing at present to do, particularly as those who
have studied volcanic action concede that neither of these agents is
absolutely required to produce it ;, moreover, the surface of the moon
is the strongest evidence we have in favor of its occurring under those
circumstances.

The views here advanced do not at all exclude the detachment of
these bodies from the moon by any other force than volcanic. It is
useless for us to disbelieve the existence of such force merely because
we cannot conceive what that force is; suffice it to know that the meteor-
ites are fragments, and if so, must have been detached from the parent
mass by some force. A study of the surface of the moon would in-
duce the belief that any disruption caused by heat might have oc-
curred, as that arising from the great tension produced by cooling, as
exists on a miniature scale in Prince Rupert’s drops, (a suggestion
made by Mr. Naysmith at a recent meeting of the British Associa-
tion.)

Admit the fragmentary character of meteorites, (which I conceive
must be done,) the force that detached it from any planet might with
equal propriety detach it from the moon ; while, from what is known
of that body, everything else would tend to strengthen this belief.
In the paper already mentioned as written by Mr. R. P. Greg, jr.,
advocating the probable connexion between meteoric stones and the
group of asteroids, the author cannot altogether get over the probable
lunar origin of some of these stones, as will be seen from the follow-
ing quotation :

‘‘he physical constitution and internal appearance of some ero-
lites, also, as those of Barbotan, Weston, Juvenas, and Bishopville,
are entirely opposed to the idea of an atmospheric origin, or of any
consolidation of homologous or nebulous particles existing in the in-
terplanetary space. They are evidently parts, as Dr. Lawrence
Smith likewise justly insists on, of some larger whole, and are not un-
frequently true igneous if not volcanic rocks. Physically speaking,
there is little choice left us but to consider some of them certainly
as having true geological and mineralogical characteristics ; either
proceeding from volcanoes in the moon, or portions of a broken
satellite or planetary body : there may, indeed, be difficulties and ob-
jections to either supposition. I have principally endeavored to ad-
duce arguments in favor of the latter idea, stating also some appar-
ently strong objections to the (at least universal) lunar origin of
zreolites and meteoric iron masses.”’

But it may be very reasonably asked, Why consider the moon the
source of these fragmentary masses called meteorites? May not
smaller bodies, either planets or satellites, as they pass by the earth
and through our atmosphere, have portions detached by the mechani-
cal and chemical action to which they are subjected? To this I will
assent as soon as the existence of that body or those bodies is proved.
Are we to suppose that each meteorite falling to the earth is thrown
. THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 171

‘off from a different sphere which becomes entangled in the atmo-
sphere? Ifso, how great the wonder that the earth has never inter-
cepted one of those spheres, and that all should, have struck the
stratum of air surrounding our globe, (some fifty “miles in height, )
and escaped the body of the globe 8,000 miles in diameter. It is
gaid that the earth has never intercepted one of these spheres ; for if
we collect together all the known meteorites, in and out of cabinets,
they would hardly cover the surface of a good sized room, and no one
of them could be looked upon as the maternal mass upon which we
might suppose the others to have been grafted ; and this would ap-
pear equally true, if we consider the known meteorites as represent-
ing not more than a hundredth part of those which have fallen.

If it be conceived that the same body has given rise to them, and
is still wending its path through space, only seeming by its repeated
shocks with our atmosphere to acquire new vigor for a new encounter
with that medium, the wonder will be greater, that it has not long
since encountered the solid part of the globe; but still more strange,
that its velocity has not been long since destroyed by the resistance
of the atmosphere, through which it must have made repeated cross-
ings of over 1,000 miles in extent.

But it may be said that facts are stronger than arguments, and
that bodies of great dimensions (even over one mile in diameter) have
been seen traversing the atmosphere, and have also been seen to pro-
ject fragments and pass on. Now, of the few instances of the sup-
posed large bodies, I will only analyze the value of the data upon
which the Wilton and Weston meteorites were calculated ; and they
are selected, because the details connected with them are more acces-
sible. The calculations concerning the latter were made by Dr.
Bowditch ; but his able calculations were based on deceptive data ;
and this is stated without hesitation, knowing the difficulty admitted
by all of making correct observations as to size of luminous bodies
passing rapidly through the atmosphere. Experiments, that would
be considered superfluous, have been instituted to prove the perfect
fallacy of making any but a most erroneous estimate of the size of
luminous bodies, by their apparent size, even when their distance from
the observer and the true size of the object are known ; how much more
fallacious, then, any estimate of size made, where the observer does
not know the true size of the body, and not even his distance very
accurately.

In my experiments, three solid bodies in a state of vigorous in-
candescence were used: Ist, charcoal points transmitting electricity ;
2d, lime heated by the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe ; 3d, steel in a state
of incandescence in a stream of oxygen gas. They were observed on
a clear night at different distances, and the body of light (without
the bordering rays) compared with the disk of the moon, then nearly
full, and 45° above the horizon. Without going into details of the
experiment the results will be tabulated.
172 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF ,

Actual diam. as | Apparent diam. at 200 | Apparent diam. at ; | Apparent diam. at 3 mile.
seen at 10 in. yards. mile.

Carbon points.....
Lime light........|
Incandescent steel |

|

.8o0f ahinch. | 2 diam. moon’s disk. | 3 diam. moon’s disk, 31 diam. moon’s disk.
2 2

4 ce “ce 2 “ ce 9 ce ee 9 oe “ee

2 te (73 + cc “ 1 “ce 73 1 ce ce

If, then, the apparent diameter of a luminous meteor at a given
distance is to be accepted as a guide for calculating the real size of
these bodies, the

Charcoal points would be 80 feet diam. instead of 5, of an inch, °
Lime a AG 50 a a st 66
The steel globule Op Me GES oe ae sy if

It is not in place to enter into any explanation of these deceptive
appearances, for they are well-known facts, and were tried in the
present form only to give precision to the criticism on the supposed
size of these bodies. Comments on them are also unnecessary, as
they speak for themselves. But to return to the two meteorites under
review.

That of Wilton was estimated by Mr. Edward C. Herrick (Ameri-
can Journal of Science, vol. xxxvii, p. 130) to be about 150 feet in
diameter. It appeared to increase gradually in size until just before
the explosion, when it was at its largest apparent magnitude of one-
fourth the moon’s disk—exploded 25° to 30° above the horizon with
a heavy report, that was heard about thirty seconds after the explo-
sion was seen. One or more of the observers saw luminous fragments
descend towards the ground. When it exploded, it was three or four
miles above the surface of the earth ; immediately after the explo-
sion, it was no longer visible. The large size of the body is made
out of the fact of its appearing one-fourth the apparent disk of the
moon at about six miles distant. After the experiments just recorded,
and easy of repetition, the uncertainty of such a conclusion must be
evident; and it is insisted on as a fact easy of demonstration, that a
body in a state of incandescence (as the ferruginous portions of a stony
‘meteorite) might exhibit the apparent diameter of the Wilton me-
teorite at six miles distance, and not be more than a few inches or a
foot or two in diameter, according to the intensity of the incandes-
cence.

Besides, if that body was so large, where did it go to after throw-
ing off the supposed small fragments? The fragments were seen to—
fall; but the great ignited mass suddenly disappeared at 30° above
the horizon, four miles from the earth, when it could not have had
less than six or seven hundred miles of atmosphere to traverse before it
reached the limit of that medium. It had already acquired a state
of ignition in its passage through the air prior to the explosion, and
should have retained its luminous appearance consequent thereupon,
at least while remaining in the atmosphere ; but as this was not the
case, and a sudden disappearance of the entire body took place in the
very lowest portions of the atmosphere, and descending luminous frag-
ments were seen, the natural conclusion appears to be, that the whole
meteorite was contained in the fragments that fell.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. bly ¢5:

As to the Weston meteorite, it is stated that its direction was nearly
parallel to the surface of the earth, at an elevation of about 18 miles ;
and was one mile further when it exploded. The length of its path from
the time it was seen until it exploded was at least 107 miles ; duration
of flight estimated at about thirty seconds, and its relative velocity
three and a half miles a second. It exploded; three heavy reports
were heard ; the meteorite disappeared at the time of the explosion.

As to the value of the data upon which its size was estimated, the
same objection is urged as in the case of the Wilton meteorite ; and
it is hazarding nothing to state that the apparent size may have been
due to an incandescent body a foot or two in diameter. Also, with
reference to its disappearance, there is the same inexplicable mystery.
It is supposed from its enormous size that but minute fragments
of it fell; yet it disappeared at the time that this took place, which
it is supposed occurred 19 miles above the earth; (an estimate doubt-
less too great when we consider the heavy reports. )

Accepting this elevation, what do we have? A body one mile and
a half in diameter in a state of incandescence, passing in a curve
almost parallel to the earth, ‘and while in the very densest stratum of
air that it reaches, with a vigorous reaction between the atmosphere
and its surface, and a dense body of air in front of it, is totally
eclipsed ; while, if it had a direction only tangential to the earth, in-
stead of nearly parallel, it would at the height of 19 miles have had
upwards of 500 miles of air of variable density to traverse, which at
the relative velocity of 34 miles a second (that must have been con-
stantly diminishing by the resistance) would have taken about 143
seconds. It seems most probable that if this body was such an
enormous one, it should have been seen for more than ten minutes
after the explosion, for the reasons above stated. The fact of its dis-
appearance at the time of the explosion, is strong proof that the mass
itself was broken to fragments, and that these fragments fell to the
earth ; assuring us that the meteorite was not the huge body repre-
sented, but simply one of those irregular stony fragments which, by
explosion from heat and great friction against the atmosphere, become
shattered. I say irregular, because we have strong evidence of this
irregularity in its motion, which was ‘‘scolloping,’’ a motion fre-
quently observed in meteorites, and doubtless due to the resistance of
the atmosphere upon the irregular mass, for a spherical body passing
through a resisting medium at great velocity would not show this.
In fact, if almost any of the specimens of meteorites in our cabinets
were discharged from a cannon, even in their limited flight, the scol-
loping motion would be seen.

This, then, will conclude what I have to say in contradiction to the
supposition of large solid cosmical bodies passing through the atmo-
sphere, and dropping small portions of their mass. The contradiction
is seen to be based, first, upon the fact that no meteorite is known of any
very great size, none larger than the granite balls to be found at the
Dardanelles alongside of the pieces of ordnance from which they
are discharged ; secondly, on the fallacy of estimating the actual size
of these bodies from their apparent size; and lastly, from its being op-
posed to all the laws of chance that these bodies should have been
174 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT, ETC.

passing through an atmosphere for ages, and none have yet encountered
the body of the earth.

To sum up the theory of the lunar origin of meteorites, it may be
stated—That the moon is the only large body in space of which we have
any knowledge, possessing the requisite conditions demanded by the
physical and chemical properties of meteorites ; and that they have been
thrown off from that body by volcanic action, (doubtless long since ex-
tinct,) or some other disruptive force, and, encountering no gaseous me-
dium of resistance, reached such a distance as that the moon exercised
no longer a preponderating attraction—the detached fragment possessing
an orbital motion and an orbital velocity, which it had in common with
all parts of the moon, but now more or less modified by the projectile
force and new condition of attraction in which it was placed with refer-
ence to the earth, acquired an independent orbit more or less elliptical.
This orbit, necessarily subject to great disturbing influences, may sooner
or later cross our atmosphere and be intercepted by the body of the globe.
LECTURE.

ON PLANETARY DISTURBANCES.

BY PROT. EH. 8S. SNELD,
OF AMHERST COLLEGE, MASSACHUSETTS.

The laws of force and motion are everywhere the same. Whether a
pebble be thrown by the hand ofa child, or a world be launched into space
by the will of the Creator, the same laws will forever govern the move-
ments of the two bodies, and the same principles will be employed to
calculate their paths. If no second force operates to disturb them,
they will pursue a straight course, and at a uniform rate for endless
ages. But should a second impulse be applied to the moving body,
and in some other direction, it will follow neither its original track
nor that of the new force, but will describe a line between the two,
which can be precisely determined, both in direction and velocity,
from the magnitude and direction of the two forces. And this inter-
mediate line will be as exactly straight, and described with a velocity
as perfectly uniform, as though but one force had originated the
motion. This is denominated compound motion ; but it is the force
which is compound, not the motion.

If the body, which has commenced its rectilinear path, should be
subject to an attractive force urging it towards some centre, and in-
creasing as the square of the distance diminishes, and vice versa, then
it will move in an orbit about that centre; and this-orbit will inevi-
tably be one of the figures called the conic sections, in the focus of
which the attracting body resides. The stone thrown by the hand,
and describing a path bent towards the earth, has in fact begun to
move in such an orbit; and if the earth could attract it by the usual
law of gravity, and at the same time present no obstruction to its
course, the stone would descend with increasing velocity, pass around
the centre within the distance of a few feet, and with a speed of many
thousands of miles per second, then ascend more and more slowly to
its place of departure, and thus, after the lapse of a few minutes from
the time it was thrown, be ready to begin the same journey anew ;
and this elliptical circulation would be continued forever, if no new
force should come in to prevent. The path of a projectile near the
earth is usually called a parabola; and for all the purposes of calcu-
lation it is sufficiently near the truth; for the extremity of so eccentric
an ellipse is infinitely near to a parabola, and this curve is much
more simple than the ellipse. So the upright corners of a building
are considered parallel lines, though in fact they converge towards the
earth’s centre.

The same principles which determine for us the resultant movement
under the action of two forces will also enable us to find it, when three,
176 ‘TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

four, or any number of impulses are applied. And the thought I
wish particularly to present is, that these results of calculation are
just the same in all the movements of common life, in the operations
of every machine, and in the revolutions of the moons, planets, comets,
and suns of the universe. There is not one system of mechanics for
rolling marbles, playing ball, and pitching quoits; another for guid-
ing ships and railroad cars, and driving machinery ; and a third for
maintaining the revolutions of days and seasons on the planets, and
working out the grand harmonies of creation. Here, as in every de-
partment of God’s works, we see infinite variety comprehended in a
simple unity.

This identity in the laws of terrestrial mechanics and of ‘‘me-
chanics celestial’’ affords the highest satisfaction to the student of
astronomy. He feels that he is treading on safe ground; he sees it
to be as preposterous to suppose the foundations of the present sys-
tem of astronomy subverted, and Newton’s Principia and La Place’s
Méchanique Celeste giving way to some new method of explaining
the movements of worlds, as to imagine that philosophers should
abandon the principles of projectiles, the laws which fix the relations
of wheels, levers, and screws in a machine, or the methods of caleu-
lating and applying the forces used in locomotion, and should substi-
tute in their place some new system of principles and laws. .

Perhaps I ought to state the exact meaning of two words which I
shall occasionally use—inertia and gravitation. Gravitation is the
tendency of all masses of matter in the universe towards each other,
which tendency varies directly as the quantity, and inversely as the
square of the distance. Inertia is a negative term, implying that
matter is unable to change its condition as to motion and rest. If a
body is at rest, it will never move, unless a force acts upon it; if it is
in motion, it will forever move in the same straight line, and at the
same rate, if no external force causes a change. A mass of matter
can no more stop, or go faster or slower, or change its line of motion,
than it can begin to move from a state of rest.

These two properties of matter explain not only the ordinary facts
of terrestrial mechanics, and those phenomena of astronomy which
were known in the days of Sir Isaac Newton, but a vast number of
other planetary movements and disturbances, some of them most del-
icate and intricate, which have since been detected. Nota new fact
as yet has come to light which conflicts with these simple first princi-
ples. No system but the true one could bear a test like this.

In attempting to give experimental illustrations of astronomical
movements, we meet with difficulties which cannot be entirely re-
moved. The earth attracts; the air obstructs: a revolving body
must be supported by pivots; these retard by friction. The best con-
trived experiments, therefore, are only approximations to the phe-
nomena which they are intended to illustrate.

A fundamental fact in rotation, whether on an axis or in an orbit,
and one, too, which is a direct consequence of inertia, is this: a re-
volving body tends to keep its plane of rotation always parallel to
itself. This fact is apparent in all the bodies of the solar system.
For example, the earth, though it travels over a journey of six hun-
dred millions of miles every year, maintains its equator parallel to
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 177

itself, its north pole all the time pointing nearly in the direction of
the so-called north star. Were it not so, our seasons would not be
preserved. Let this horizontal wooden ring represent the plane of
the ecliptic, the lamp in the centre the sun, and the six-inch globe
revolving on the axis which I hold, the earth. As I carry the globe
around the ring, with the equator oblique to it, and keep the axis di-
rected to the same point in the sky, you perceive that the upper pole
is now in the light of the lamp; now, after a quarter revolution, the »
light just reaches to both poles; and now, when carried half round,
the upper pole is turned away from the light, and the lower one to-
wards it; and, once more, after three-quarters of a revolution, both
poles are again in the edge of the enlightened hemisphere. The axis
being held parallel to itself, and the globe all the time spinning upon
it, you perceive that the upper hemisphere in the first position has
the long days and short nights of summer; in the second, the equal
days and nights of autumn; in the third, the short days and long
nights of winter ; and in the last, the equal days and nights of spring.
In the lower hemisphere, all these facts are reversed. So, also, the
moon’s axis is not exactly perpendicular to the plane of its orbit ; and,
as its equator continues parallel to itself, we alternately see the north
and south poles of the moon presented to us—a phenomenon called
the moon’s libration in latitude. In the foregoing illustration, we
have only to suppose the wooden ring to be the moon’s orbit, and the
small globe the moon, while the lamp in the centre occupies the place —
of the earth.

In like manner, the orbits and equators of all the planets and satel-
lites in the system show plainly a tendency to maintain a parallelism
at all times. That these planes are not really and precisely parallel,
is the result of disturbing influences, to be noticed presently.

In order to show this tendency experimentally, it is necessary that
the revolving body should be free to place its axis in all directions.
This is done by swinging it in gimbals, somewhat like the mariner’s
compass. The instrument before you was called by the inventor, the
late Professor Walter R. Johnson, the Rotascope.* It very much re-
sembles Bohnenberger’s apparatus for illustrating the precession of
the equinoxes, but is many times larger, and has several appendages
for various experiments on rotatory motion. The outer brass ring is
free to revolve on a vertical axis in the wooden frame; the inner ring
can revolve freely on a horizontal axis in the outer one; and the spheroid

Fig. 1. _ in the inner ring has its axis perpendicular to that of

7 the ring itself. (Fig. 1.) Thus, you perceive, the
spheroid, by means of the rectangular axis, is free to
revolve in any plane whatever. I now setit spinning,
(by looping a cord upon the small pin in the axis,
winding it up, and then drawing the ends apart till
it is unwound and detached,) and elevate somewhat
that end of the axis which is nearest to you, that you
may see its position better. I now take up the frame
a in my hands, and carry it about the platform, and
turn it to every point of the compass, and tip it over to any angle, even

a?

# See Professor W. R. Johnson’s ‘Description of the Rotascope,’’ in the American
Journal of Science and Arts, for January, 1832, p. 265, et seg. The instrument used in
12
178 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

bottom up, and yet the axis of the spheroid remains parallel to itself,
with the elevated end directed towards you.

Fig. 2. Fig. 3.

Friction on the pivots, and resistance of the air, will cause small
changes of direction, especially if I move the frame violently.*

If a body, therefore, were made to revolve on an axis, it might be
carried or driven anywhere into space, without ever changing the
position of its plane of rotation, unless the forces applied should act
unequally on the parts of the body.

We find an elegant illustration of this tendency to parallelism of axis
in the boomereng, a curious missile used by the natives of New South
Wales, an account of which is given by Captain Wilkes in his ‘‘Explor-
ing Expedition.’’} Itis made of wood, about three feet long, two inches
wide, and three-fourths of an inch thick, bent in the middle at an ob-

Fig. tuse angle, somewhat resembling a rude sword.
(Fig. 4.) The article which I holdin my hand is
an actual boomereng, brought by the explorers,
and belonging to the collections of the Smith-
gonian Institution. Three or four others may be seen in the National
Gallery, in the building of the Patent Office. It is thrown with a rapidly
revolving motion, and is said to be very effective both in war and
hunting. Those who are skilled in its use can throw it obliquely up-
ward so that it will come back to them, or even pass over their heads,
and hit any desired object beliind them. It would be hardly safe for
me to try the experiment here, lest (lacking the skill of the savage)
I should hurt either you or myself. I can with less hazard, project
these models, made of stiff card, and only three or four inches long.
Holding one of these with the obtuse angle between my thumb and
finger, I snap the end forcibly, so as to send it off obliquely upward,
with a swift rotation in its own plane, and you perceive that instead
of describing the usual path of a projectile, after completing its ascent,
it returns in the same plane, and falls near me. If several be thus
snapped off in different directions, occasionally one will perform an
awkward somerset, but most of them will come back to me. It is
that tendency (already spoken of) in a rotating body, to preserve its

this lecture is of more simple construction, the orbit-rod and the third ring being dis-
pensed with, as they are wholly unnecessary for the illustration of composition of rotary
motions.

* Tn figures 1, 2, 3, the spheroid is seen maintaining the same position, while the frame
is placed in various positions. ’

+ For a description of the boomereng, and its uses, see Captain Wilkes’s ‘ Narrative of
the United States Exploring Expedition,’ vol. I, pp. 191, 192.
{HE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 179

axis parallel to itself, which explains this apparently singular phe-
nomenon. Observe that as the boomereng ascends, it is whirling on
an axis perpendicular to the plane of ascent. Should it go onward in
its descent, and cut the air edgewise, it must necessarily change its
plane of rotation ; it will not, therefore, do this. If it goes on, keep-
ing its exis paraliel to itself, it must strike broadside through the air,
and the resistance is too great to allow of this, The only way in
which it can maintain a parallelism of rotation, and yet cut the air
edgewise, and also descend with the largest angle of inclination, is to
come back to its place of projection, as you have seen it do. It does,
in fact, as the foregoing explanation requires, ascend and descend on
an inclined plane, instead cf pursuing the parabolic or atmospheric
curve at all,

But I have already intimated that, in the solar system, this paral-
lelism is rarely, if ever, perfectly maintained. The earth’s equator
deviates at a very slow rate, (2bout fifty seconds in a year,) so that
for many years it was not perceived by the rude means of measure-
ment which ancient astronomers possessed. But its deviation has
been going steadily on in the same direction, until the signs of the
zodiac.and the signs of the ecliptic are now separated by the extent
of an entire sign, or thirty degrees. The plane of the moon’s orbit
deviates from parailelism much faster, se that in about eighteen years
it inclines in every direction at its given angle with the orbit, and
comes round again inte its former position. Going back to our first
illustration, in which the small globe represents the earth, and the
wooden ring the ecliptic, I carry the glebe round the ring, from the:
west side, through the south, to the east, and onward, at the same:
time inclining the north pole towards me, se that the planes of the
equator and the ecliptic intersect in an east and west line. But, after
I have carried it round a number of times, please to observe that I
shift the position of the axis, by which I hold the globe, in such a
manner that the line of intersection lesa little to the south of east and
north of west. The ends of that line, representing the equinoxes,
have moved a little from the east (through the south) to the west 5.
that is, in a direction contrary to that in which the earth revolves.
At length, as the revolutions proceed, the line of equinoxes is found
lying north and south; and thus it perpetually retrogrades. This is.
called the ‘‘ Precession of the equinoxes.’’ It is so exceedingly slow,
that in order to describe ninety degrees, as just represented, it will
require between 6,000 and 7,000 years, and, therefore, about 26,000:
years to complete the circuit of the heavens. Again, if I carry
this two-inch brass ball round from west to east, but oblique to the:
wooden ring, passing above it through the southern half, and be-
low it through the northern, we shall have a representation of the
moon’s path around the earth, oblique to the ecliptic. The intersect-
ing points, called the nodes, now lie in an east and west line; but as
I carry it round repeatedly, I] make the ball descend below the ecliptic,
at a point a little further to the west, every time, and thus cause the:
line of nodes to move backward, while the moon itself goes forward,
This is called the ‘‘ Retrogradation of the moon’s nodes.’’ It is vastly
more rapid than the precession just described, since the line of the
nodes passes quite round the sky in eighteen or nineteen years,
180 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Now, these nodal motions in the solar system, of which I have
named the two most familiar examples, are the effects of some disturb-
ing force; for we have seen that, without disturbance, the plane of
rotation would be forever parallel to itself, and would therefore cut a
fixed plane always in the same points. I have already alluded to the
law of composition in rectilinear motions ; namely, that the resultant
motion lies between the directions of the two component forces, divi-
ding the angle into two parts, which have a very simple relation te the
magnitude of the forces, the body moving most nearly in the direction
of the greater force. The law of composition of rotary motions is
quite analogous to it, and directly deducible from it. It is this: Ifa
body is revolving on an axis, and a force is applied tending to revolve
it on some other axis, it will not revolve on either, but on a third one,
between the two, and dividing the angle as before.”

To show you the truth of this law, | whirl the spheroid of the rota-
scope, so that, while the south end of the axis points from me, the
‘ particles pass over from my left to my right. Now, with this smooth
rod, I press down the north side of the inner ring, thus tending to
give the spheroid a similar right-hand rotation on an
axis pointing westward. The effect is, you perceive,
that the ring slips round under the rod, so as to
bring the south end of the axis into the southwest
quarter—that is, between the two axes of separate ro-
tation. If I continue the pressure, the axis passes
round still farther west, endeavoring each moment to
place itself between its present position and one at
right angles to itself.f If there were no friction un-
der the rod and on the pivots, this horizontal rota-
tion would continue so long as the pressure is ap-
plied, and more rapidly as the pressure is greater. But, as there 2s
friction, the south end of the axis slowly rises from a horizontal plane.
I now direct the axis again towards the south, and press the north side
of the ring wpward—that is, I endeavor to produce a right-handed rota-
tion on an axis pointing eastward ; and you see the south pole imme-
diately pass round towards the east, between the two axes.

As all the cases of compound rotation are more easily described by

ve Wa ap SP EIR GES Oe RE eee eee ee ee ee

* [ did not think it best, in a popular lecture, to give a fall and technical statement of
the laws of composition, in either rectilinear or rot :ry motions. ‘They are subjomed here
for the use of any who may wish to recur to them:

‘If a particle receives two motions, which are separately represented by the adjacent
sides of a parallelogram, the resultant motion is represented by the diagonal of the same ;
and therefore, in direction, it divides the angle of the components, so that the sines of the
two parts are inversely as the components ; and in quantity, it has to either component the
same ratio as the sine of the whole angle has to the sine of the part between itself and
the other component.’’

The law of compound revolutions is this : ‘‘ If a body receives two impulses, one of which
would cause it to revolve on one axis, and the other on a second, it will revolve on a third
axis, situated between the two, and dividing their angle, so that the sines of the parts are
inversely as the two impulses. And the velocity of rotation is to the velocity due to either
impulse, as the sine of the angle between the two original axes is to the sine of the partial
angle between the third axis and that on which the other impulse would have revolved
the body.”’

+ In figure 5, the particles at A, moving in the direction of the arrow by the revolu-
tion of the spheroid, and also urged towards the rod, by which the ring is pressed down,
move beween these two directions; this is effected by the sliding of the ring towards the
left, under the rod, as shown by the double-shaft arrow.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 181

directing attention to the revolving particles themselves, rather than
to the axes of motion, and as this ‘mode renders more obvious the re-
semblance between compound rotary and compound rectilinear motions,
I will adopt that method of explanation in the remaining experiments.
The spheroid having lost considerable velocity, I renew it, and once
more direct the axis southward, observing that the particles on the west
side are moving downward, Tnow press the west side of the outer ring
towards the south, and you see that the only effect is to make the south
pole rise wp ; if I push the same side north, the south pole is depressed.
Now observe the reason. The particles on ‘the west side, moving down
by one motion, and sow/h by the other, take an intermediate direction,
which neces sarily elevates the south pole, : The particles on the east
side conspire in this effect ; for, by the first rotation they move up-
ward ; spp the pressure which I communicate they are urged north-
ward; and, taking a direction between these: two, they
also throw the south pole wp. Thus every particle,
on the east half and on the west, has a compound
motion, which tends to raise the south pole of the
spheroid ; that is, to give the spheroid a revolution
| on an axis between the two original ones, one of
4 which was directed horizontally southward, the other
vertically upward.* If the pressure is continued
gently for a few moments, the axis continues to rise,
peer) always seeking a new position, between its present
one in a@ tomes one, until, at Slength, it becomes vertical itself; then
the two revolutiuns coincide, and the ring for the first time yields to
the pressure, and goes round in the same ‘direction as the spheroid. I
now give a new form to the experiment, by pressing the east side
southward for several seconds ; you perceive the north pole of the sphe-
roid elevating itself, till it finally points to the zenith, when the two
revolutions agree in a direction the reverse of the for mer.

Anether mode of exhibiting these last experiments is quite calcu-
lated to deceive the student and lead him to suppose that the diurnal
and annual revolutions of a planet or satellite, are performed in the
same general direction from some mechanical necessity. I whirl the
spheroid on a vertical axis, from west (through south) to east; next
I confine the outer ring, by turning up the fork attached to the bot-
tom of the frame, so as to embrace the edge of the ring; and then,
taking the frame by its two pillars, [commence carrying it round my-
self, from west to east. The spheroid, in the mean time, spins quietly
on its axis. But the moment I stop and begin tu carry the frame
round from east to west, the spheroid suddenly throws itself over, and
revolves on a vertical axis still, but with its poles reversed. By this
inversion of axis, the spheroid revolves also from east to west, the
same direction in which I am carrying the frame. Once more I re-
verse the orbit motion, and instantly you see the spheroid turn over,
seeming determined (if I may borrow some convenient terms from
astronomy) to revolve diurnally in the same direction in which I carry

= Fig. 6. The particles at A, moving by the rev woth of the spheroid, and the pressure

of the rod, respectively in the directions of the broken- -shaft arrows, take the intermediate

direction indicated by the double-shaft arrow ; which can be done only by thie rising of the
remote end of the axis.
182 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

it annually. And so it will do, as often as I change the order of the
circular motion. IfI press very gently, to produce the orbit motion,
without actually moving, the spheroid reverses its axis slowly ; but if
I begin to move rapidly, it throws, itself over with such energy that
it nearly jerks the frame out of my hands.

Now we cannot infer from this experiment, that the axial and or-
bital revolutions of a planet are so connected, that one must be in the
same direction as the other. If the earth were to be stopped in its
orbit, and sent backward through the signs of the ecliptic, that would
be no reason for its throwing itself over with its north pole to the
south, and its south pole to the north. The diurnal rotation would
go on undisturbed ; for we have already seen that the earth or any
revolving body might be projected in any way whatever through
space, without causing the least displacement of its axis. This ex-
periment is exactly in point for illustrating the composition of two
revolutions, which is the topic now in hand. I make the spheroid to
rotate from west to east ; I then begin to carry it round me from east
to west. This is in fact nothing else than turning it on its own aais
from east to west; for, when I commence, the side of the frame nearest
to me (and of the ring, confined to the frame) faces north; after a
quarter revolution, the same side faces east; after a half revolution,
west ; and so throngh all points of the compass. So far as the sphe-
roid is concerned, it is the same as though I take hold of the frame,
and turn it round in its place on the table. I repeat the experiment
in that manner; and you perceive that the instant I turn the frame
and confined ring from east to west, the spheroid reverses its poles;
and on my. turning it back, from west to east, it reverses again, thus
resuming its original position. Now here is no orbit-motion ; the
body stays in its place, and exhibits the resultant effect of two rota-
tions. Let us examine this case of composition. Please to notice
that the axis is not free to place itself in any position when | move the
frame; the spheroid cannot, therefore, maintain a parallel position ; but
is, on the contrary, constrained to receive a second revolution, which
I impress upon it. This second revolution is round a vertical axis,
whether I carry the frame about me, or turn it on the table. So long as
the spheroid keeps its own axis precisely vertical, although revolving
in the opposite direction, it does not tend to turn over, but revolves
with the difference of the two motions, which are in the same plane.

Fig. 7. But the axis of the spheroid will inevitably be jarred
slightly from its vertical position; and if so, it
cannot recover it. If, for example, the upper pole
is jarred towards me, each particle on the nght hand
will, by the first rotation, be moving from me in a
line slightly ascending ; and, by the second, horizon-
tally towards me; thus the two forees will act at a
large obtuse angle, within which the particle will
direct itself, throwing the upper pole farther towards
me.* The angle of the forces is thus diminished a

*In figure 7, the particles at R ascend from the observer in the line of the arrow A, by
the revolution of the spheroid ; and move horizontally towards him in the line of the arrow
B, by pressure on the frame ; they, therefore, move leween, as shown by the arrow C;
that is, the upper end of the axis N moves dowards him.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 183

little, and the next resultant lies within this diminished angle; and
so, by the continued pressure on the frame, the angle is reduced to no-
thing, by the complete reversal of the poles. At that moment, the two
forces coincide in direction ; and now, if the axis is jarred a little, the
angle is acute, the resultant les within it, and tends to bring them to
immediate coincidence without upsetting the spheroid. Wesee, there-
fore, that there is a condition of equilibrium, whichever way the frame
is turned on a vertical axis, provided the spheroid revolves also on a
vertical axis; but if the revolutions are in the same direction, the
equilibrium is stable ; if in opposite directions, it is unstable.

We are now prepared to attend to the explanation and illustration
of the ‘‘ Precession of the equinoxes.’’ ‘The earth is not an exact
sphere. Ifit was a sphere, and of uniform density, there would be
no such phenomenon as precession. The equator of the earth, as is
true also of the other planets, is a little bilged beyond the spherical
form, in consequence of its rotation. We conceive of the earth, there-
fore, as consisting of a sphere with a thin ring attached to its equator.
This equatorial ring is inclined about twenty-three and a half degrees
to the plane of the ecliptic. The sun is always in the ecliptic, and
the moon is always very nearly in it. By the attraction of these
bodies the equatorial ring is shghtly pressed towards the ecliptic, and
the whole mass of the earth, being united to the ring, is thus urged
to turn into the plane of the ecliptic, on an axis passing through the
intersection of thetwo planes. But in the mean time the earth is also
turning on the axis which passes through its poles. By the composi-
tion of these two revolutions it begins to turn on a new axis very near
the original one, and between it and the line of equinoxes.. But the
depressing force continues, tending to tip the equator towards the
ecliptic on a line still at right angles to the diurnal axis, and there-
fore shifts that axis again; and thus the cause, and its consequent
effect, are repeated from moment to moment for ages. The earth’s
axis is ever seeking a new position between its present one and another
at right angles to the present one.

The rotascope illustrates this perfectly. I first set the horizontal
ring around the frame, to represent the ecliptic. The spheroid of the
rotascope represents the earth; though, for convenience, it has an
excessive oblateness, the equatorial ring being even larger than the
enclosed sphere. The earth I set in rotation on its axis from west to

Fig. 8. east, and incline the equator to the ecliptic; and

2 now I attach this brass weight to the lower edge

of the inner ring; the weight, by urging the
ring into a vertical position, of course presses the
equator of the spheroid into a horizontal plane—
that is, the plane of the ecliptic. The line of
equinoxes, you perceive, now lies east and west;
but if I leave the apparatus thus adjusted to itself,
this line commences a slow revolution from east
to west. This is the ‘‘ Precession of equinoxes.’’*

. * In figure 8, the particles at A, revolving to the right with the spheroid, and urged towards
the observer by the weight W, take an intermediate direction ; that is, the equinoctial points,
184 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

If the attraction of the sun and moon was greater than it is, we
reason that the precession would be more rapid; and if less, it would
be slower. The experiment is easily modified, to show the correct-
ness of these conclusions. I take off the weight, and put on a heavier,
and the horizontal movement is hastened ; if I put on a smaller weight
you see it slackened ; and finally, if I remove the weights altogether,
the phenomenon ceases, as it should do.

Once more, we know that if the earth were to revolve more rapidly
on its axis than it now does, the present attraction of the sun and
moon would produce less effect to change the axis; in other words,
the precession would be slower, and vice versa. In illustration of
this, observe that, as the spheroid loses some of its velocity, (with a
given weight on the ring,) the horizontal circulation is gradually gain-
ing speed ; and so it will continue to do as long as | let the experi-
ment continue.

We may here notice why the precession is so excessively slow:

Ist. The ring of matter on which the sun and moon act is an ex-
ceedingly small fraction of the whole earth.

2d. It is not the whole attraction of those bodies upon the ring which
causes this disturbance, but only that part by which it exceeds or falls
short of the attraction on the internal portions.

3d. It is not even the whole of this difference, but only that com-
ponent which is perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic.

4th. The ring cannot move alone, in obedience to this influence, but
must carry the entire earth with it.

No wonder, then, that the effect is almost too small to be observed.
We may well say, when explaining the seasons, that the earth’s axis
is, in every part of its orbit, parallel to itself.

It is interesting to see so delicate a phenomenon as the precession
of the equinoxes completely accounted for. A cause is found, which
is not only right in the direction of its action, but exactly right, too,
in quantity, to cause this almost insensible disturbance. It is Just as
small as it should be, considering that the earth is as large as it is,
and as heavy as it is, and revolves as offen as it does; that the ring is
as small as it is, inclined as it is to the ecliptic, and confined as 1% is to
the earth; that the sun and moon are just as massive and as distant
as they are, and varying as they do their relations to the line of the
equinoxes. All these, and still other conditions, being just as they
are, if the precession was any faster or any slower than about ji/ty
seconds in the year—that is, about the width of the sun in forty
years—then this motion would not be accounted for. But, be-
sides the agreement of calculated results with the observed facts,
which so few are able to appreciate, the same phenomenon can be
shown by experiments; a body being made to revolve like the earth,
and a force being brought to act on it as the sun does on the earth,
the phenomenon is artificially produced before our eyes.

It is to be observed that if the equator, having an inclination of
234° to the ecliptic, directs that inclination every way in the course

at the screws Land R, revolve horizontally in the direction of the double-shaft arrow.
As the component forces are always at right angles with each other, their resultant is
perpetually reproduced.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 185

of ages, the poles of the equator must likewise perform a revolution
around the poles of the ecliptic at the same slow rate.

While the rotascope exhibits the precession as in the last experi-
ment, you will perceive, if your attention is given to the pole of the
spheroid, that it describes a circle around the pole of the ecliptic, or
the pivot at the top of the frame. For many years past and to come,
the conspicuous star in the extremity of the tail of the Litle Bear is
nearly enough in the direction of the earth’s axis to be called the pole-
star. But the time will come when the little fellow will not be held
so unceremoniously by the end of his tail, and whirled round every
day without touching feet to the ground, as he now is. He will re-
tire from his dizzy position in the north, and every twenty-four hours
will go to rest and rise again, like most other animals. In 13,000
years from this time, the Little Bear will rise in the northeast, cul-
minate over our heads—I should say over the heads of our success-
ors—and set in the northwest; while the beautiful Harp will take
its station in the northern watch-tower, furnishing a far more bril-
liant pole-star (Alpha Lyre) than the one which we enjoy.

The retrograde motion of the moon’s nodes is explained in the
same manner as the precession. The sun is the disturbing body,
always in the plane of the ecliptic, while the moon’s path about the
earth is inclined to the ecliptic about five degrees. A small compo-
nent of the difference of the sun’s action on the earth and moon is
employed to press the moon towards the plane of the ecliptic. The
two revolutions thus impressed on the moon cause it to revoive in an
intermediate direction. Recurring to the experiment by which I
illustrated the fact of this retrograde motion, a moment’s attention,
in view of what has been presented on compound rotations, will suf-
fice for understanding the reason of it. The wooden ring represent-
ing the ecliptic as heretofore, the lamp in its centre the earth, and
the brass ball the moon, we must imagine the sun at the distance of
some five hundred feet in the extension of the wooden ring. Now,
as I carry the ball around the ring obliquely while it is above, and
tending, by its inertia and gravity of the earth, to go forward in its
orbit, the distant sun exerts a small force to depress it into the plane
of the ring, and it therefore goes between, and passes the plane at
an earlier point than if the sun had not acted; that is, the node has
moved backward. At every semi-revolution the same cause is in ope-
ration, and the effect is, therefore, perpetually produced on each node.
But this retrogradation is far more rapid than the precession, prin-
cipally because the moon is not attached (as the equatorial ring of
the earth is) to a mass vastly larger than itself, to which the motion
must be communicated.

Before leaving the subject, I will use the rotascope to perform two
experiments which strikingly illustrate the general law of compound
rotations.

From the ceiling there is suspended a strong wire, on the lower
end of which is a cord, or rather a bundle of cords, about two feet
long, terminating in a hook. I take the spheroid and rings from
the frame, by raising the pivot-screw at the top, and hang the outer
186 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ring on the hook, taking care to keep the axis of the inner ring hor-
izontal. I now spin the spheroid as rapidly as possible, and then

Fig. 9. whirl the outer ring the same way till the cords are
twisted so far as to tend strongly to untwist. Letting
go the ring, it commences whirling by the force of
torsion ; but suddenly the axis of the spheroid throws
itself into an oblique position, and instantly arrests
the motion of the ring, while the spheroid, with the
inner ring, slowly turns itself over.* As soon as it
is inverted, the cords untwist, and twist up in the op-
posite direction, the spheroid all the while maintaining
its own rotation the same way. When they begin the
second time to untwist, the spheroid authoratatively
interposes, and takes time to turn over quite leisurely,
and get itself ready to whirl in the same direction
also. And thus will it operate a number of times. be-
fore running down.

This experiment does not need a separate explanation; 1 is, in fact,
a repetition of the one in which I carried the frame round its vertical
axis. But it becomes more striking, for the reasons that the force is
more secretly applied by the cord than by the hands; that it is ap-
plied uniformly as well as gently ; and that it is repeated as often as
the cord is twisted up. A short and thick rope of parallel cords is
purposely used, that the inversion may be repeated several times be-
fore the spheroid loses its velocity. You will observe, that the outer
ring does not move at all by the torsion of the cord, while the axis is
reversing itself; that force is wholly expended on the spheroid, com-
bining with its own rotation, to produce the inversion of its axis.

To prepare the instrument for the second experiment, I replace it
in the frame, take the inner ring with the spheroid from the outer
ring, and attach to it, at one end of the spheroid’s axis, this stiff rod
of brass, about six inches long. One end of the rod terminates in a
strong fork, which is slipped tightly upon the ring, and confined by
pins. The other end is connected by a hook and swivel, with a wire
two feet long. I next remove the cord used in the preceding experi-
ment, and hang up, in its place, the wire with the spheroid attached
in the manner just described. Having put the spheroid into switt
revolution, I lift it up on one side by the ring, till the rod and axis
make a right-angle with the wire. Dropping it now from this posi-
tion, it does not fall, as one would expect, and hang beneath the
wire, nor does it even descend in the least, but commences a horizontal
revolution about the wire. The spheroid itself revolves vertically, but
the system horizontally. And the whole, weighing fifteen pounds,
and having its centre of gravity more than a foot trom the support,
presents the magical appearance of being held up without force. If
I elevate it higher, at an acute angle with the wire, it will sustain

“Figure 9. The arrows T show the direction of torsion. The particles A are moved up-
ward by the rotation of the spheroid, and horizontally to the left by torsion—these forces
being indicated by the broken-shaft arrows. The double-shaft arrow shows the direction of
the resultant, which corresponds to an elevation of the pole N, and a depression of 8.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 187

* igaOh itself at that angle, and revolve as before.
The direction of the horizontal revolution is the
reverse of that which the spheroid has when
brought down to hang beneath the wire. For
example, in the present experiment, I made
the spheroid rotate from W. to E.; and you see
the system going from EH. to W. I will now
revolve the spheroid from E. to W.; and having
dropped it again, you observe the revolution
to be reversed; the system revolves from W. to
H Hs

Unaccountable as these phenomena appear at first, they are found
to be very obvious cases of compound rotations. Gravity, at first
sight, appears to have no effect on the weight, since it is not at all
depressed. But it is, in truth, exerting its full energy upon it every
moment, producing, in conjunction with the rotation of the spheroid,
the horizontal revolution. Let me stop the latter motion for a few
moments, that we: may examine the manner in which the two forces
are compounded. As I hold the spheroid up on the right of the wire,
the particles on the top are coming towards me; if I should abandon
it to the action of gravity, that force would urge the same particles to
the right, in the are of a vertical circle, described about the hook as a
centre; consequently they assume a direction between these two direc-
tions, which can be done only by the system moving, not downward,
but horizontally from me. This composition of forces is momentarily
repeated, in exactly the same circumstances, and hence the rotation is
continued uniformly so long as the spheroid maintains its speed.

There is another species of disturbance in the planetary motions,
easily illustrated by experiments, and which will demand but a few
moments’ attention. The orbits of the planets and satellites, though
nearly circular, are really ellipses; and, if no attraction operated on
a given revolving body except that of the central body, the ellipse
would always present its longest axis in the same direction. But this
is not true in fact. The remote end of the longest diameter of the
earth’s orbit, called its aphelion, which now points to the constella-
tion Gemini, ten thousand years ago was directed to Taurus, and ten
thousand years hence will be advanced in the order of the signs to
Cancer. This motion is so exceedingly slow that sixty thousand years
will be required for the aphelion and perihelion to change places, and
one hundred and twenty thousand years to make a full revolution.
The extremities of the moon’s orbit, in like manner, are advancing ;
but the disturbance in this case is rapid, since they pass entirely round
the heavens in about nine years.

You will observe that this line (called the line of the apsides) travels
in the same direction as the revolving body, while the line of the
nodes moves, as we have seen, the opposite way.

This efiect is produced by the action of a body, or of bodies, lying

* Wig. 10. The particles at A are moving in the line D, by the rotation of the spheroid,
and are urged by gravity towards B, in the plane of a vertical circle around the centre, H.
The resultant is towards E, which direction can be attained only by the rotation of the
centre of gravity G, in the order of the arrows IF, horizontally around the centre C.
188 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

outside of the orbit. The sun, for example, outside of the moon’s
orbit, operates powerfully on it, and. causes its apsides to advance
rapidly. The superior planets, outside of the earth’s orbit, exert but
a feeble influence, and the motion of its aphelion is almost insensible.

An exterior body always operates to draw a planet away from its
centre ; that is, it diminishes its attraction towards the centre, and, of
course, it does this most efficiently when the planet is farthest removed
from the central body ; in other words, when at its aphelion. Hence
it advances a little beyond its former aphelion before it turns to go
back to the perihelion. Thus each aphelion point is a little further
onward than the preceding.

This may be illustrated by a long pendulum. I suspend the small
globe by a cord six or eight feet in length. Instead of swinging it:
back and forth, however, like a pendulum, I throw it round, so as to
describe an elliptical orbit. Now, in order to describe this orbit,
there must be a central force. That force is the component part of
gravity, which would, if I should stop the ball,
cause it to fall towards the centre, and which
would hold it there, and only there, when at rest.
I now swing the globe in such a manner, that it
will describe from west to east a long narrow
orbit, whose longest axis lies north and south.
After a few revolutions, the axis is seen shifting
a little to the southeast and northwest; and in
a few minutes the south has become east, and the
north has become west, the apsides having ad-
vanced ninety degrees. To show that the two
revolutions are necessarily in the same direction,
I stop the globe, and revolve it from east to west. You presently
notice the axis of the orbit making progress from east to west also.*

To explain this change in the pendulum’s orbit, I must state a law
demonstrated in Newton’s Principia; that, when a body revolves in
an ellipse about the centre, instead of the focus, the attraction to the
centre varies as the distance. When a long pendulum is swung in a
small orbit, this law is proved to obtain almost exactly ; and experiment
corroborates it. Butif the cord is shortened, or the orbit enlarged,
the deviation increases, and always in this way—that the central force
is not great enough at the extremities of the long axis. Hence, as
the body is passing one of these points, the central force being too
feeble to bring it back in the former path, it shoots forward a little
before turning to come back; that is, the apsis is advanced slightly.
This occurs at every semi-revolution. Now here is a known cause,
operating just like the attraction of external bodies in the solar sys-
tem, and producing just such an effect. Thus, again, we have an in-
stance, in which a mechanical experiment, that can be performed in

“In Fig. 11, the globe, suspended from the ceiling, and drawn aside, is urged by a com-
ponent of gravity towards G, where it would hang, if at rest. Being thrown obliquely
so as to describe the ellipse in the direction of the single-shaft arrows, it will, at its suc-
cessive returns, pass through the points A, B, C, D, &c. The double-sha/t arrows show this
motion of the apsides to be in the direction in which the globe describes its orbit ; that
is, the apsides advance.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 189

the lecture-room, and a great fact in astronomy, are explained on the
same principles. ‘

If there were but two bodies in the system, their mutual orbits
would be undisturbed. Some conic section would be exactly and for-
ever described by each about their common centre of gravity. But
the introduction of a third body disturbs both these orbits, and its
own is disturbed by them. In the solar system, therefore, in which
hundreds of bodies are attracting each other, the disturbances are al-
most numberless; though multitudes of them are too minute to be
perceived. The two which have now been noticed—namely, the ret-
rogradation of nodes, and the advance of apsides—are among the
most prominent. And though in some instances they are exceedingly
minute, they at length become apparent, because they go on accumu-
lating for ages instead of oscillating back and forth. The equinoxes,
though they have an oscillatory inequality in their motion, are yet
perpetually receding on the ecliptic, and must continue to do so while
the earth exists. And the apsides, in like manner, are always moving
forward in the same direction in which the planet moves.

It is worthy of notice, that while the mutual attractions of the
planets disturb the orbits, they do not derange them. When the
learner first considers the fact, that the sun and moon are perpetually
pressing the equator of the earth towards the ecliptic, he is almost com-
pelled to infer that it will be brought nearer and still nearer, until at
length the two planes will coincide, and all distinction of seasons
will disappear in every latitude of the earth. The sun will always
culminate vertically at the equator; at the poles he will always be
seen circulating about the horizon. But this calamitous derangement
never can occur; the revolution’ on the axis prevents it. The combi-
nation of the #wo movements is, as we have seen, a simple retrocession
of the equinoxes, which involves no change in the succession of sea-
sons.

So, too, when the student of astronomy learns that the outer planets
draw the earth away from the sun most of all at the aphelion, where
it is already at the greatest distance, he seems to see this aphelion
distance becoming greater and greater, as ages pass on, and the peri-
helion, of necessity, during the same ages, drawing nearer and nearer
(as I move this ball in more and more eccentric ellipses about the
lamp) until the condition of the earth’s climate becomes fatal to every
living thing. At the perihelion, the earth is subjected to an intolerable
heat; at the aphelion, to a cold equally intolerable. But calculation
and experiment both show, that the aphelion point, instead of being
removed from the sun, by the attractions of the outer planets, will
simply slide around, keeping its distance from the sun the same as
ever. The planets have too much stability to be seriously deranged
in respect to their orbits by the influence of outsiders.

This preservation of safe relations among the planets, in the midst
of unceasing changes and disturbances, is one of the most interesting
facts presented to the mind of the pupil in astronomy. He who made
the countless spheres, ordained the laws of their motion ; and those
laws, by their perfect operation, secure the utmost peace and harmony,
though worlds, thousands of miles in diameter, are rushing through
190 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT, ETC.

space with a velocity which it is fearful to contemplate. Huge as are
these masses of matter, and terrific as are their velocities, they are
perfectly controlled by their Omnipotent Lord, who subjects them to
those few and simple Jaws with which we all have to do in the actions
of every-day life.

[Since the delivery, in January last, of this ingenious and interest-
ing lecture, the motions of the rotascope or gyrascope, as it is NOW
called, has unexpectedly become a subject of general popular interest,
and thousands of copies of a simple form of the instrument are now
manufactured to gratify the public curiosity. The explanation of the
principles of compound rotary motion is as old as the day of Newton,
and the experimental illustrations given in this lecture have been
annually exhibited by Professor Snell to his class in Amherst College
for upwards of twenty years.

The following remarks may, perhaps, serve to make the brief ex-
planation of Professor Snell of the horizontal rotation a little more
easily understood. Suppose the horizontal axes (fig. 10) placed
north and south, and the wheel revolving towards the east, then the
particle A will tend to move eastward by the rotation and northward
by the action of gravity ; the resultant will therefore fall between
these two directions, but much nearer the former, on account of the
greater force. The tendency will therefore be to turn the plane of
the disk outward, which, on account of the fixed position of the point
B, must carry the point D backwards. The same statement may be
made with regard to the motion of the lower point of the disk, which
conspires with the upper to produce a motion of the system in the
same direction.

An interesting application of the principle of compound rotation
has lately been made to the explanation of the lateral deviation of a
ball from a rifle-bore cannon. The deviation is always in the same
direction, and is the result of the same kind of action which produces
the horizontal rotation of the system exhibited in the experiment
(fig. 10) of the lecture. J. H.]
METEOROLOGY.

ABSTRACT OF OBSERVATIONS MADE DURING THE YEARS 1853, 1854, AND
1855, AT SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA.

BY THOMAS M. LOGAN, M. D.

GENERAL REMARKS,

The following observations and tables have been carefully drawn
up and verified for future comparative reference. As the initiative of
a series of more comprehensive and perfect observations, which it is
proposed to prosecute for several successive years, they are now pre-
sented for record among the reports of the Smithsonian Institution.
The increasing rigor which advancing physical science exacts before
generalizations can be reliably deduced, especially requires the adop-
tion of such a course, in a new country like this, possessed as it is of
one of the most extraordinary climates known. In frequent instances
discrepancies will be found between the present tables and those pub-
lished in the reports for 1854, originating in errors of copy and ty-
pography, and which are now corrected. ‘The barometric and thermo-
metric computations are the result of three daily observations. Prior
to April, 1854, they were made at 8a.m.,3 p.m., and 10 p. m.;
since that date, at sunrise, 3 p. m., and 10 p.m. Henceforth they
will be continued, in accordance with the uniform system of observa-
tion adopted by the Smithsonian Institution, at 7 a. m., 2p. m., and
9p.m. The course of the wind was also noted three times a day,
corresponding with the above periods, as well as the state of the
weather in relation to clearness, cloudiness, and rain. By clear days,
is meant entirely clear—i. e., no clouds whatever being visible at the
time of observation; by cloudy, that some clouds were visible when
it did not rain; and by rainy days, that more or less rain then fell
without reference to quantity. The dew-point was taken at the driest
time of the day only, (3 p. m.,) from July, 1854, to November,
1855, with Daniels’ hygrometer ; since then, it has been calculated
from three daily observations with the wet and dry-bulb thermometer.
The three tables of hourly observations for twenty-four successive
hours, are the first of a series to be repeated four times every year, at
or about the period of the solstices and equinoxes, for the purpose of
determining the corrections to be applied, in order to render compar-
able with each other, the records made at different periods of the day.
It will be perceived, in these ‘‘term observations,’’ that the horary
oscillations of the barometer present in a marked degree the two di-
urnal maxima and minima which obtain within the tropics. From a
register kept with an extremely sensitive open-cistern barometer for
six months, from the Ist of April, 1855, to September following, in-
192 _ TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

clusive, for the express purpose of testing the regularity of the ebb
and flow of the wrial ocean, it is ascertained that the mean monthly
range between the sunrise and the 94 a. m. readings, amounted to
1.07 inch plus, in favor of the latter hour; whereas, between the
3 p. m. and the 93 p. m. readings, the mean monthly range was only
0.46 inch plus, in favor of the last hour. These observations will be
continued for six months longer, in order to determine whether the
fluctuations of atmospheric pressure occur as regularly in the same
ratio and degree during the rainy season. The instruments employed
were all placed in the open air on the north side of the lower story of a
brick building, in a sheltered projection, and protected against the
effect of either direct or reflected insolation, as well as against noc-
turnal radiation. In consequence of the care exercised in this re-
spect, the figures of the thermometer ranged generally lower during
the summer than those of other observers in the city. It is necessary
to add, before proceeding to the special remarks for each year, that,
according to recent observations by the Aneroid barometer, the altitude
of the city may be put down at thirty-nine feet above tide-level. The
latitude is 38° 34’ 42” north, and the longitude 121° 40! 05” west.

REMARKS FOR 1853.

With the exception of the winter of 1849-50, which, according to
the representations of those who then resided here, was a season of al-
most continual rain-storms, that of 1852~’53 ranks thus far as the most
notable for its high winds and heavy rains. The high northwest
wind which set in a few days after the great fire in November, 1852,
was succeeded by deluging rains, accompanied with strong wind from
the southeast. The Sacramento river, which drains about 15,000
square miles before reaching the city, rose above its natural banks
higher than was ever before known, converting the streets of Sacra-
mento into flowing streams and bottomless quagmires. On the Ist of
January the city was totally submerged. Dense fogs prevailed during
the greater part of the days of the 3d, 4th, 13th, 14th, 17th, 18th,
19th, 20th, 21st, and 22d, which, in connexion with the predomi-
nance of southerly winds and the frequent fall of rain, caused a de-
gree of humidity amounting almost constantly to saturation. Feb-
ruary was comparatively a dry month. On the 5th the streets of
Sacramento began to be passable, and in many points manifested in-
dications of desiccation ; while the river fell steadily, notwithstand-
ing the rains towards the latter part of the month. On the night of
the 22d there was a rain-storm from the southeast ; after which date
it rained more or less until the 25th, when it blew a gale from the
southeast, with heavy rain at night. By the 6th of March the Sa-
cramento river had fallen unusually low for the season, and the streets
of the city, thus thoroughly drained, were drying up rapidly under
the influence of a hot sun—the thermometer at 3 p. m. reading 75°.
On the 8th heavy rains commenced falling again, and the weather
continued variable to the end of the month. Nothing worthy of note
occurred at the date of the equinox; but on the 28th, one of the
heaviest rains ever measured here was found to have fallen, amount-
ing to about five inches. On the following day the Sacramento river
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 193

was found to have risen twelve feet in twenty-four hours, overflowing
its natural banks, and cutting off all communication with the interior
. by stages. On the 3lst the American river, which empties into the
Sacramento on the north side of the city, fell four feet in twenty-four
hours; but the height of the Sacramento river remained unchanged,
having attained within three inches of being as high as it was on the
Ist of January.

April 1.—The river commenced backing up through a break in the
levee at Sutterville, about two miles south of the city, and continued
to rise at the rate of one inch per hour until the streets were again
overflowed on the morning of the 2d. Onthe 4th heavy warm rains
from the south commenced falling ; the weather became genial, and
vegetation began to burst forth. Notwithstanding the river began to
fall slowly and steadily, it was still kept high by these spring showers.
On the 13th, during a heavy shower from the south, vivid flashes
of lightning, followed quickly by thunder, were witnessed ; which
phenomena also occurred on the 17th and 29th. At the latter date
the rain was ushered in by a sprinkle of hail from a nimboid-cumulus
from the southeast. The severest storm of the season occurred on the
night of the 16th, the wind blowing a gale from the southeast, accom-
‘panied by rain.

May was unusually boisterous; high winds prevailing frequently
from the south and southwest. The last shower of the regular rainy
season occurred on the 20th. There was afterwards a sprinkle on the
28th and 29th. At the close of the month the river was within a few
inches of the top of its natural banks, and still falling very slowly.

June was the hottest month in the year, and was generally so
throughout the State. On the 19th the barometer fell to the mini-
mum of the month, lower than it was ever known, with the wind,
strong from the southeast. This uncommon disturbance of the equi-
librium of the atmosphere was followed by no other appreciable effects
here than a considerable moderation of temperature, and a brisk
shower of rain on the 26th; an unusual occurrence in June. The
mean temperature was 80° when the sun entered Cancer, and the
mean reading of the barometer was 29.25 inches: weather clear, and
wind veering from south to northwest.

July was rendered most agreeable by a greater proportion of rela-
tive moisture in the atmosphere than is usually found during mid-
summer, and which may be attributed to the prevalence of southeast
winds. ‘Two sprinkles of rain—one on the 17th and the other on the
- 21st—occurred this month. That on the 17th happened about sunset,
when a beautiful rainbow was refracted.

August was characterized by remarkably cool nights. The minima
observed on the nights of the 13th and 31st were 51° and 50° respect-
ively.

September was comparatively a sultry month ; the wind being gen-
erally very light, particularly during the last four days. <A_ brisk
shower of rain occurred at daylight on the 15th, with the wind from
southwest, and the barometer reading 29.90 inches. On the 22d, the
mean reading of the barometer was 30.05 inches, and of the ther-
mometer 74°: sky clear, and wind southerly and light.

194 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

October opened with calm sultry weather, which continued during
the first six days; afterwards it became variable. The first rain of
the season fell before daylight on the 10th. During the last half of
the month the wind prevailed strong from the northwest, and on the
last three days it was very high.

On the 4th of November the regular rainy season may be said to
have set in, although’the quantity of rain that fell did not amount to
more than about an inch and a half for the whole month.

December was throughout a cold month. Hoar frosts were frequent
and vegetation was completely arrested. There were eight foggy
days this month; two entirely so. On two afternoons these fogs
gravitated towards the earth in the form of mist; generally, however,
they were dissipated before noon. At the period of the winter solstice
rain fell, and the thermometer sank to 32° at sunrise ; the wind blow-
ing fresh from southeast, and the barometer reading 30 inches. The
year ended cold and clear, with the wind from northwest.

Our tables for 1853 are not as complete as we could have desired,
because we were not provided in time with the necessary meteorologi-
cal appliances ; and, consequently, the monthly quantitative fall of
rain cannot be put down with scientific accuracy. The annual amount,
however, recorded in the table, approximates very nearly, the true
measurement.

REMARKS For 1854.

The opening month of this year is notable for its unprecedented
low temperature. Tor the first five days the mornings were foggy,
the wind remaining all the time very hght from northwest. On the
morning of the 5th the barometer fell suddenly 0.30 inch, and in
the afternoon a gale set in from the northwest and blew violently for
twenty-four hours. On the next morning, Sutter lake, situated at
the northwest angle of the city, was frozen over, and the thermome-
ter at 8 a. m. read 32°. From this date to the 20th the weather
was variable. The rains were cold and generally accompanied with
high wind from southeast. On the 15th the Coast range* of mountains
presented the novel appearance of being covered with snow in their
whole extent, and on the 20th the thermometer fell to the lowest point
ever before observed since the settlement of the country, viz: 19° at
7 a.m., and did not rise above freezing the whole day. So per-
sistent was the cold that Sutter lake remained frozen over for twenty-
four successive hours. ‘The mean temperature for four days, from the
19th to the 23d, was 29°. From all the information that can be ob-
tained from the oldest settlers, the greatest degree of cold previously
observed was in December, 1850, when the thermometer fell to 26°.

% The Sierra Nevada lie parallel to the coast of the Pacific, and, as their name imports,
this lofty range of mountains is always more or less capped with snow. But between
the latitudes 34° and 41°—between San Buenaventura and the Bay of Trinidad—there
runs west of the Sierra another smaller chain called the Coast range, of which Monte del
Diablo, 3,760 feet, Mount Ripley, 7,500 feet, and Mount St. John, 8,000 feet high, according
to Milleson, are the culminating points. In the valley between this Coast range and the
Great Sierra, varying in breadth from 40 to 80 miles, according to Fremont, flow from
the south the river San Joaquin, and from the north the Sacramento.

}
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 195

February was the most rainy month thus far observed, both as re-
gards the quantity that fell and the number of rainy days. On the
28th there was a considerable sprinkle of hail, attended with light-
ning and thunder, from a nimbus coursing from west to east.

March was stormy, high winds prevailing from almost every point
of the compass. Most of the rain that fell this month was on the
13th, 14th, and 15th, the wind veering about and blowing, at one
time, strong from the northeast, which is unusual. Immediately after
this the Sacramento river, which had remained ata very low stage all
the winter, commenced rising suddenly and soon reached twenty feet
two inches above low-water mark. It soon, however, began to fall
again. When the sun entered Aries the weather was fine and clear;
wind northwest; mean temperature 61°; mean reading of barometer
30.16 inches. On the 30th a comet was visible in the western hori-
zon at about 8 p.m. It bore northwest by north, with an altitude of
about 20°; length of tail about 6°, extending towards the zenith.

April, although preceded by the coldest winter yet observed, was,
from its inception, literally the opening month, and towards its latter
end vegetation was as much advanced as at the corresponding period
of the previous year. A coincidence worthy of note, inasmuch as
these phenomena are so seldom witnessed, was the occurrence of light-
ning and thunder on the 29th of the same month last year as well as
at the same date this year, accompanied by hail from a nimbus cours-
ing southeast; the mean reading of the barometer on the latter date
being 29.90 inches, and of the thermometer 60.03°.

May was characterized by capricious weather, vacillating between
winter and summer. ‘Two more thunder-storms, attended with high
wind, occurred, one on the 6th and the other on the 18th. The for-
mer, though less severe in the neighborhood of the city than that of
the 29th April, seemed to spend its chief fury, accompanied with
hail, in its course from southwest, extending from a point about eight
miles from the city to an unascertained distance beyond. This storm,
which lasted fifteen minutes, was so severe at a place called Spanish
Ranch, in the American valley, that the inmates were obliged to bar-
ricade the windows and doors to prevent them being blown in, and
two of a herd of cattle were killed by lightning. The barometer did
not read lower here at the time than thirty inches. The great annu-
lar eclipse of the sun was well observed here on the 26th, the sky
being entirely cloudless. At the period of the greatest obscuration
the landscape presented the same appearance as when viewed through
glasses of a neutral tint, and totally different from the shades of
evening. ‘he sky was of the deep greenish blue color seen in some
paintings of the Venetian school. On the following day the wind,
which had been fresh from the south, changed to southwest, and then to
northwest, from which quarter it blew a gale from 10a. m., for twenty-
four hours. After this it moderated a little, but continued high to the
last day of the month, when the barometer fell to its extraordinary
minimum, as in table No. 2.

June responded from the very first to the atmospheric disturbances
of the preceding month, and the established naturai laws of the dr
season were infringed three different times by rain, on the Ist, 12th,
|
196 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

and 17th. The rain on the 12th was accompanied by lightning and
distant thunder, but that on the 17th was the heaviest, measuring
0.20 inch. Although June is regarded as one of the dry months,
still we find, in a journal of one of our pioneers, that ‘it poured
during the night of the 11th June, 1849,’’ and, as is seen in the tables,
it has rained a little in this month every year. The wind was high
about the period of the solstice, but the barometer did not fall below
thirty inches at that date.

July was remarkable as being the hottest month yet observed. At
3 p.m. of the 13th, for the first time since we have been keeping a
meteorological register, the several thermometers distributed in va-
rious parts of the lower story of our brick residence marked 100° and
upwards, and remained at that height until 5 p. m. One placed near
the door of the southern front, and somewhat exposed to the effect of
reflected insolation, although ten feet from the sunshine, rose to 107°.
In several wooden buildings through which the solar heat penetrated
and accumulated, the mercury was seen by us as high as 110° ; but
this is not so high as apparent when we take into consideration the
fact that the atmosphere here is always filled in the summer season
with particles of dust and sand, which form, as Humboldt says, ‘‘ cen-
tres of radiant heat.’’ Ail these observations were made, although
to the windward, still near the locality of the great fire which occurred
about 3 p.m. on the 13th. Now, as the 12th, 13th, and 14th were
the three hottest days, and the mercury did not rise higher than 98°
on the first, and 99° on the last of these days, it is not unphi-
losophical to attribute the solitary instance of extreme heat to the
dryness of the atmosphere, artificially increased by the conflagration,
and which measured 42° by the thermometer of Daniells’ hygrometer.
And such an inference is sustained by the fact that on the 13th the
wind was from the southwest, which is much cooler and moister than
that of northwest, which prevailed on the 12th and 14th. The mean
temperature of the hottest part of the day for the week ending July
15th, was 97°. During the last half of the month the weather mod-
erated considerably, showing a difference of about 8° between the
mean maximum temperature of the first and last half.

August was characterized by the usual atmospheric changes which
usher in the autumnal season. The night of the 16th was the hottest
night as yet noticed in the country, the thermometer standing at 82° at
10 p. m., and 70° at sunrise. On the 17th the barometer commenced
falling, and continued to do so until it reached the minimum of the
month. This variation of the usual atmospheric pressure was attended
with fresh breezes from southeast, and followed by a slight shower of
rain on the morning of the 21st. After this the weather became sud-
denly cool, the nights being quite chilly, with the thermometer rang-
ing from 54° to 60°. During this month the Sacramento river fell
to the lowest point ever known since the settlement of the country.

In September little worthy of remark is recorded. Onthe 14th, at
10 p. m., frequent flashes of lightning were observed in the northeast,
The equinox passed away without any other atmospheric disturbance
than a slight sprinkle of rain at daylight ; wind southwest, fresh ;
barometer 30.08 inches, and thermometer at 58°.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 197

During October, indications of the setting in of the rainy season
were developed. Although the quantity of rain that actually fell was
small, still the proportion of moisture in the atmosphere was large for
this locality and season—the-dew point having been generally only 8 or
10° below the temperature of the air ; whereas during the preceding
summer months the freedom from watery vapor, as measured by the
thermometers of the psychrometer, ranged from 20° to 30°.

Our record for November shows the most agreeable weather, the
genial effects of which were manifested in the verdure of the fields and
fruitfulness of the gardens. In the neighborhood of the city, straw-
berries ripened on flourishing plants, and green peas were in such a
state of forwardness as to justify the expectation of their being ready
for market at Christmas.

December, another rainy month, passed away without much pros-

ect of our getting the usual semi-annual allowance of rain. From
the 4th to the 9th the fogs were so dense during the earlier part of
the day as to measure in the aggregate 0.07 inch by the rain-gage.
The first killing frost of the season occurred on the 9th. The sun
entered Capricornus during fine and clear weather. The year closed
with a strong gale and rain from southeast, which measured 0.60
inch; the barometer reading 29.78 inches, and the thermometer
54°.

REMARKS For 1855.

The new year was ushered in witha violent rain-storm, veering
from southeast to southwest. The barometer at sunrise stood at
29.38 inches, and the thermometer at 51°. The quantity of rain that
fell before 8 p. m., measured 1.12 inches. By the next morning the
weather was clear, with the wind fresh from north; the temperature
at freezing-point, and barometer at 30 inches. After this, only a
little rain fell occasionally ; but from the 10th to the 20th, the
densest fogs and mists prevailed continuously, measuring in the ag-
gregate, by the rain-gage, 0.16 inch. Sometimes the ascending
current would for an hour or two, during the warmest: part of the
day, carry off the vapor with it; but the wind, which was for the
most part warm, and from southeast, was too light to prevent the
re-precipitation of the excess of moisture in the air. On the 5th and
14th there was a slight fall of snow, which unusual phenomenon
was also witnessed two winters ago, at Brighton, about four miles to
the eastward. The month closed with pleasant weather, and the
verdure of the plains presented indications of an early spring.

February was characterized by the variable meteorological phe-
nomena usually attendant upon the breaking up of winter and the
opening of spring. During the first half of the month the weather
was generally pleasant and genial. On the Ist, the cowslip was ob-
served in profuse blossom all over the surrounding plains ; also, on
the 15th, the wild violet; on the 20th, the peach tree, and on the
23d, the pond willow, (Saliz nigra,) and the nemophilla, a small
indigenous blue flower. At daylight on the 24th, the thermometer
fell suddenly to the freezing-point at Sutter’s Fort, the wind being
198 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

fresh from north-northwest. The next day the wind changed to the
southward, from which quarter it continued to prevail almost con-
stantly to the end of the month, accompanied for the most part with a
steady, warm rain. For several days preceding the copious rains,
during the latter part of the month, the atmospheric pressure appeared
subjected to powerful disturbing influences, the barometric column
sinking to the minimum for the month, as stated in the table, on the
19th. The weather all the while remaining clear, with high wind
from northwest, and a comparatively anhydrous condition of the
atmosphere, seemed to conflict with the barometric indications of ap-
proaching rain. The heaviest rain of the season commenced falling
at noon on the 27th, and continued without interruption until 10
p.m. of the 28th, when the barometer rose suddenly one-tenth. of
‘an inch, and the clouds began to break away. ‘The quantity of rain
that fell during these twenty-four hours measured 2.10 inches.

March was noted for the comparative infrequency of high winds
and rain-storms. The vernal equinox was attended with no appre-
ciable atmospheric disturbance ; the weather remaining mild, equable,
and pleasant. The thermometer, however, ranged rather higher than
usual for the season. The deficiency of rain during the winter months
was measurably made up by frequent heavy spring showers, which
served to melt and bring down the snow from the mountains. On
the 15th the Sacramento river, which had remained at a very low
stage all the winter, rose to 20 feet 24 inches above low-water mark ;
which was within 1 foot 9 inches of the high-water mark of 1st Jan-
uary, 1853. During the two last days of the month a steady, warm
rain fell, beginning about 8 p. m. of the 29th, and continuing almost
without interruption until 9 a. m. of the 31st, when it commenced
blowing a gale from the south, with occasional heavy showers. At
the same time the barometric column sank to the minimum for the
month, but began to rise again before evening, when the gale abated.
On the afternoon of the 27th, at 5 o’clock, a remarkable iridescence,
globular in form, and which may be termed a parhelion, was observed
at the western termination of a cloud in the southwest, about 45°
above the horizon. The beautiful prismatic tinting of this meteor,
which lasted about one or two minutes, was the subject of general ad-
miration and newspaper remark.

In April the weather was very changeable, and more snow fell on
the mountains than is recollected to have fallen so late in the season
since 1849. The coincidence, remarked last April, of the unusual
occurrence of lightning and thunder on the same day of the previous
year, was rendered still more remarkable by the recurrence of the
game phenomenon on the 14th of this month. The barometric as well
as all other changes were sudden and frequent. The minimum re-
corded in the table occurred on the 15th, the maximum on the 18th.
The maximum of the thermometer was observed on the 8th, the min-
imum on the 18th; after which latter date a varying temperature,
with a comparative excess of humidity and southerly winds, predomi-
nated. ;

The most noticeable feature in May consisted in the recurrence, so
infrequent in this region, of electric phenomena on two occasions, (the
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 199

10th and the 14th,) which happened likewise on the 6th and 18th of
the corresponding month last year, as well as on the 14th of the pre-
ceding month this year. Nothing, however, in the way of thunder-
storms was ever witnessed here like the dense nimbus which suddenly
arose from the southwest at about 3 p.m. on the 14th, and discharged
its watery contents, to the amount of 0.80 inch of rain, over the city,
rivalling, in the vivid shocks of its well charged battery, the violent
thunder-gusts of more tropical regions. As appears in the table, con-
siderable rain for the season fell, being an overplus of 0.94 inch
above that of May, 1854, although minus 0.10 inch of what fell in
May, 1853. During the whole month the barometer ranged uni-
formly low, and maintained a greater equability in its oscillations than
was observed for some months previously. With the exception of the
29th, 30th, and 31st, the thermometer indicated an agreeable temper-
ature, while a sufficiency of relative moisture in the atmosphere ren-
dered the weather pleasant and salutary. On these last days, how-
ever, the afternoons were oppressively sultry, in consequence of the
wind being light from northwest all day, and dying away towards even-
ing. These few uncomfortable days were more than compensated for
by delicious and refreshing nights, ‘‘when the heavens seemed to
unfold the brightest page of their mystic lore.’’ Indeed, no possible
combination of the great agents of nature in producing an agreeable
climate can surpass the delightful moonlight nights of Sacramento,
when fanned by the balmy breathings of the south, fresh from the
Pacific.

June was characterized by one of those extraordinary oscillations of
temperature which occasionally occur early in the summer in every
part of the North American continent, and which have been found to
return on an average of every ten or twelve years at several stations
where observations have been made through a series of years. On
the 21st the thermometer rose to 100°, and on the 22d in many places
beyond that point. This elevation of the temperature to 100°, at the
period of the solstice, appears to be not more extraordinary for Sacra-
mento than for other places at the same parallel of latitude. Rich-
mond and Washington, isothermally considered, many miles north of
Sacramento, are likewise occasionally subject, the former to a maxi-
mum temperature of 102° and the latter 100°, during the month of
June. The condition of the atmospheric pressure was also peculiar.
During the earlier part of the month the barometric column sank to
the minimum, as recorded in the table, without any other appreciable
sequence than some increase in the relative humidity of the atmo-
sphere. During the whole month it maintained a more or less low
position, except on the 11th and 12th, when it rose nearly as high as
at any other time during the month, although on these very days we
were visited with light showers of rain from the south. On the 25th
the barometer fell again as low as it did in the earlier part of the
month, when the wind commenced blowing fresh from the south, and
afterwards, on the 28th, changed to the northwest. The effect of such
hot weather, so early in the season, proved disastrous to the agricul-
tural interests, by developing the eggs of the grasshopper—a species
of gryllide—six weeks earlier than they were hatched out the year
200 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

previous. There is no animal that multiplies so fast as these, if the
sun be hot, and the soil in which the eggs are deposited be dry ; and
it is apprehended, for these reasons, that these destructive insects
may reappear whenever the hot weather sets in early.

July presented a most favorable specimen of our summer climate,
as if in compensation for the excessive solstitial heat of the preceding
month. There was scarcely a day in which the air was not refriger-
ated by southerly breezes. The barometer ranged persistently low,
and the atmospheric disturbance, indicated by its sinking to the mini-
mum on the 14th, was followed by accounts of showers of rain in va-
rious parts of the surrounding country from Yreka to San Francisco.
There was no rain at this point, but an increase of the humidity of
the atmosphere was manifested on several occasions by the formation
of clouds, and on the 18th vivid flashes of lightning were witnessed
in the eastern horizon.

In August there predominated a comparatively large proportion of
the relative humidity of the atmosphere, accompanied by an almost
constant prevalence of southerly winds, and a persistently low range
of the barometer. These phenomena were followed in some parts of
the State by early rains. In Nevada, Sierra, Butte, and Plumas,
heavy showers were reported to have fallen on the 19th. At the same
date it was cloudy here, and the relative moisture at the driest time
of the day amounted to 50 per cent. of saturation.

In September the first rains of the season occurred antecedent to
the equinox. After the prevalence of a high wind for twelve hours, at-
tended with flitting clouds from the southwest, a nimbus passed over
the city about sunset on the 15th, dropping an almost imperceptible
sprinkle, and:displaying a beautiful iris in the northeast. A heavy
bank of clouds was then seen to settle over the Sierra Nevada, occa-
sionally giving forth flashes of lightning. On the next evening, the
wind still prevailing from the same quarter, we were visited by a
shower sufficient to clear the atmosphere of dust for a short time.
Again on the following evening a heavy nimbus was seen to pass
from west-southwest to southeast, emitting vivid flashes of lightning,
followed by audible thunder. Prior to these occurrences the barom-
eter manifested considerable perturbation ; sinking to the minimum
on the 10th, and ranging generally low during the whole month.
During the latter part of the month was experienced somewhat of the
sultry, stagnant condition of the atmosphere which is peculiar to the
season when the wind is light from the northwest.

October furnished further indications of the advent of the rainy
season. The relative moisture of the atmosphere had been for some
time gradually augmenting in per-centage, when, on the morning of
the 29th, saturation manifested itself in the mist that prevailed until
10 a.m. The greatest degree of humidity previou&ly observed was
on the 24th, the day of the eclipse of the moon, when the relative
moisture at the driest time of the day was 67 per cent., and the abso-
lute humidity 6.07 grains in each cubic foot. During the whole time
of the lunar obscuration the atmosphere was transparently clear, and
the phenomenon was seen perfectly through its progress ; the ther-
mometer ranging from 63° at 9h. 34m. p. m., to 55° at 1h. dm. a. m.;
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 201

the barometer reading at the same time 30.04 inches, with the wind
light from the northwest.

In November the large proportion of aqueous vapor which had been
accumulating for some time previously, was condensed by the high
wind from northwest, which prevailed strong during the first five
days, and during one day, the 3d, very high. While this natural
operation was going on, the evolution of electricity was satisfactorily
demonstrated by the magnetic telegraph, tue wires serving to collect
and conduct off some of the abounding electricity of the air. On the
2d, the battery at Marysville was detached, and the communication
preserved without its agency. On the following morning thin ice was
seen at daylight on a neighboring farm, and the potato, watermelon
vines, and okra showed in their blackened leaves the effects of the first
frost. Cloudy weather, with southerly winds, soon succeeded, and on
the night of the 9th the rain came. On the 10th frequent flashes of
lightning were observed about 114 p. m. in the northern horizon. Af-
ter four days of occasional light rains, the weather cleared up, and
light northerly winds prevailed until the 21st, when the barometer
fell suddenly from 30 to 29.80 inches, the minimum for the month,
with the wind fresh from southwest. This variation of atmospheric
pressure was ascertained by means of the telegraph to be simultaneous
at various points, from Downieville to San Francisco. At the latter
place a light rain commenced falling on the same evening, while at
the same period a remarkable corona of three concentric rings of dif-
ferent colors, pale red, blue, and white, close to the moon, was ob-
served in this city, revealing the presence of rain, or rather sleet, in
the higher regions of the atmosphere. Before the succeeding morn-
ing a sprinkle reached us, which was followed up in thetevening by a
steady light rain, with a fresh breeze from southeast, until 9 a.m. of
the 24th, measuring 0.235 inch. After this the wind changed to
the dry quarter, northwest, but was too light to disperse the evapora-
tion which was precipitated in the air during the night, and on the
morning of the 25th a dense fog prevailed until the ascending current,
at 11 a. m., carried off the vapor with it. On the following day the
breeze came fresh from northwest, and the barometer reached its maxi-
mum for the month. After this the weather became variable. On the
28th a light rain fell from 10 a.m. to 1p. m., measuring 0.123 inch ;
and again, on the 30th, another little shower, from 4 to 6 p. m.,
measuring 0.024 inch. The mean relative humidity for the month
was sixty-four per cent. The phenomena incidental to December in
the north temperate zone, of decreasing days, gloomy fogs, saturating
rains, piercing winds, and chilling frosts, concluded the train of the
departing year; fulfilling, in the order of their recurrence, the laws
which were put in force by the Creator, when the foundations of the
earth were laid. "Although the month opened fair, the weather mani-
fested, by a sprinkle at 12 m. on the 2d, symptoms of variableness,
which obtained until the 7th, when the heaviest rain of the season,
from southeast, fell between the hours of 1 and 43 p. m., measuring
0.610 inch. On the night previously, at about 10} p. m., there*
was a slight fall of snow, just sufficient to make the phenomenon ap-
parent, twas of short duration, and was followed immediately by a
202 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

light shower of rain. From this date to the 24th there were only two
days entirely clear, thirteen cloudy and rainy, and two foggy days.
The quantity of rain which fell in the aggregate during this interval
amounted to 0.672 inch.

Notwithstanding this long continuance of unsettled weather which
prevailed generally throughout the interior of the State, the atmo-
spheric pressure at the same period manifested no unusual disturbance
—the barometer never falling below 30 inches, and, indeed, reading
as low as that point only twice, and for a short time: once on the
6th, when it snowed, and again when the sun entered Capricornus.
In the table of hourly observations at this latter period will be noted
the gradually progressive rise and fall of both barometer and ther-
mometer during the twenty-four hours. At 9 a.m. the temperature
was three degrees lower than at 4 a. m., while the atmospheric pressure
was .03 of an inch, increased by the veering of the wind to the west-
ward. At10a.m. the sky appeared almost entirely clear, but by
3 p.m. it became almost entirely cloudy, although the wind had in-
creased in force from the west. At 10 p. m. a large halo of the moon
was observed, consisting of a single luminous circle of about 45°
diameter ; and again at 2 p. m., when the sky had become almost
entirely cloudless, a corona of three faint concentric rings, apparently
about 5° in diameter, encircled the moon. Notwithstanding these
indications of the surcharge of the upper regions of the atmosphere
with humidity, the wind freshened up from northwest in the afternoon,
and by 9 p. m. the sky was entirely clear. Before morning the ther-
mometer fell to the extraordinary minimum of 25°, and the barome-
ter rose to 30.08 inches. On the succeeding day the sky was entirely
overcast, and although the lower current of air continued fresh from
northwest, the rising of the barometer from 30 to 30.12 inches, under
such circumstances, indicated some unusual pressure of the atmo-
sphere. As the sequence demonstrated, this barometric oscillation
was attributable to the marginal accumulation of air around the
storm, which was heralded on the morning of the 26th by an unpre-
cedented fall of snow, the lower current of air still prevailing light
from the north. Simultaneously a rapid diminution of atmospheric
pressure was manifested, and by 10 p. m. it was blowing a gale from
southeast, the rain, which had been falling all day, now coming with
gusts, from low clouds driven before it. At 7 a. m. on the 27th,
when the storm had reached its terminal point in this quarter, the
barometer sank to its minimum, 29.78 inches, and the thermometer
read 49°. At9p.m. following, the barometer had attained its or-
dinary altitude of 30 inches, and the temperature was six degrees
less than at the sunrise observation, while the sky was almost en-
tirely clear, with the breeze fresh from northwest. The snow-storm
lasted from 6 to 10 a. m., and the quantity that fell amounted to 0.016
inch when melted and measured by the rain-gage. The aggregate of
melted snow and rain which fell from 6 a. m. of the 26th to 10 a. m.
of the 27th, measured 0.725 inch. The effect of the rains thus far

* upon the river was to raise it about 30 inches above low-water mark.
Accounts from the interior represent the fall of snow as very great,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 203

and, consequently, the river may not be much affected thereby until
the warm rains of spring.

From the 27th to the close of the month the weather remained
clear and cold, with the wind steady from north and northwest, with the
exception of a part of the day of the 30th, when it veered to east and
northeast, the barometer nearly all the time remaining stationary at
about 30.15 inches, and never attaining the maximum it previously
reached on the 9th, 13th, 14th, 16th, and 17th. The mean temperature
of the four last cold days of the month was 34°, being 5° plus the
mean temperature of the four coldest days, from the 19th to the 23d
January, 1854. The mean of all the highest readings of the ther-
mometer by day was 56.04°, and of all the lowest by night 44.03°:
the mean daily range of temperature during the month was, there-
fore, 12.01°. The mean degree of humidity was 0.818, complete
saturation being represented by 1,000.
TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

204

$8 LP
PL 98
0g 9g
19°69
GL GP
vs 6h
fe)

86°62
91°66
06 “06
*sayouy

ST “29
6h

OF 08
°

10 “08
TL “62
64 “0&
“sayouy

‘uvoyT | ,ma00q

ig ‘osofywy ou

65
09 Se
6F
£6 “LV
6%
89
fo)

F6 66
GL 66
6& “08
*SayOur

8P

cE

$9
ie)

&1 “08
OL 62
GP 0S
“Soyour

C9 “SP
TE
0G “67
cos¢
Wis
GL
fo)

1G “08
C0 ‘06
GE “0E
“soyouy

€¢

9P

GL
fo)

G0 °0€
0€ 66
Cr 0s
“sayouy

I,UI9AO NY

|

gg
LOROSS|
67

06

fo}

S&T 0§
€8 “66
06 ‘08
“soyouy

8h
8g
88
fo)
CT (0€
06 °62

OF 0E
“sayouy

‘190990

06 °8P
09 07
gg
g0°99
87
06
e)

$0 °0€
G8 “6%
06 OE
“sayouy

94
Fg
C6

)

[6°66
06 “62
OL “0€
“sayouy

Tumeydag

66 0G
&P
09°69
Lv 69
6G
66
o)

C0 ‘08
08 "63
06 06
“sayouy

60 °0€
8°66
$0 °0E
*Sayouy

‘qsnsny

O99
0S “SP
89
69 “08
GL 0g
09 “LOT
fo)

80 °0&
{8°62
61 ‘0€
*sayouy

SDE
69
£6
fe)
90 °0€
C6 6%

06 0€
“sayouy

“Ane

t

60°06
06 “64
G6 OE
“sayouy

Lk
8g
16

°

61°66
86 82
06 “08
“soyouy

oun

Z0 08

6z
8Z 08
“Sayoury

89
FG
8

(e}

60 “0€
83 “62
86 “OE
*sayouy

“AVITAL

[8°66
i? NE
“soyour

&T “06
88 “66
8 06
“soyouy

qTudy

“Soyouy

08 09
Sh
GL
fe)

OL 0E
C6 66
GP 0S
“sayouy

YOIVyy

‘TON ‘HIGVL TALLVYVdNOO

‘IT ‘WW ‘unboT yr svwoyys

LT 0§
OL °6%
OF 0E
“sayouT

90 °0€
69 “66
68 “OS
*sayouy

“A NAqgayy

IT “64
OL 6S
GP 0§
“sayouy

&F

&&

99
fe)

£9 “66
09 6%
6&3 0E
“sayouy

“ATVNUY

----" UROTT

> VANUATU

-WIhUIIxey,~ ~~~ *gutod-aoqr
---=" UBOTL

- UINUUUT YY

~ UINUWIEX BI ~~ LOJSULOTALOTT,

=" =>" UOT,
~ TURTLUTY
|" UWINWIXB]~ ~~~ ToyouMOLeg

| FSI81

|-~- =" aeayt
|~ WIN UALUT
| WEN MEXB ~~ IopOMLOTIAO YY,

|necere uo
~ TMU,
-UINUWIXU]~ ~~ > “Loqyoumoreg

“SS8T

‘quiod-mop puv
‘JOROWOUALIEYY ‘IopoMO.Leg

auniong yo ‘Ges, pub ‘Pegy ‘Eeg], suvah ay) bur.unp apnu ‘suoynasasqg yoorboro.oajayy fo 790.4S8Q"
205

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

“suojommouAIDY} q{nq AIP pUB JOM OY} ITA SUOY}VAISQO ATIVp d9Aq} Wor} poyV~MoTVs Weaq svt] FT Woy} ooUls
$ rajomoi1SAy sypotueq WM ‘cegyT ‘1oquIOAON 07 ‘FegT ‘Ane Woy (‘wu -d ¢) ‘<quo Avp oy} JO OUI} 4SelIp oY} 4B UsyLZ SBA JUTOd-Mop OY] — SXUVNAY

L8‘¥& on as 9F ibz
8E “LS 6g 9¢ Lg 99599
LY 64 66 °CP | 99°09 T0 “69 10 “89
CL OY GZ vE Sv vg
8S SS 6g 69 €6 ¥6

fe) 0) fo) fo) fo)
86 62 80°0€ | 70 °0E 6& GL 66

08 °62 98°62 G9 “62
O€ OF | FL'OE | 8°62
‘sayouy =| “sayouy =| ‘seyouy

“uvayy |1,1909(] | 1,WL9AON) “19.0300 | 1,tu94dag

VL 66
Fo 66
88 66
“sayouy

‘Aye

‘oun

90 “0€
G9 "66
60 ‘0€
“sayoUT

‘qudy

Si -Sy- | LE “Ly
(a3 8T
6g | Og ‘Tg

G8°FS | 09 °6S
Iv 6&
94 OL
fe) °

16°66 | €0°0€

69°66 | LG °62

IL ‘OE | &@°0€

“soyouy =| “sayoury

‘gory | A naga

“‘ponuyyu0p—Tf “ON WIV TALLVUEVdAN00

80 “8E
0€
09 “PY
{LS}
LG
69
fo)

06 05
8§ “62
TP 0€
“sayouy

“AIvNUve

--- 7" WeaTl
~ TANI,
“UINUXB ~~ ~~ “yurod-Meq
epic bederey 7
~ TMU,
“ UMUEXB] ~~ logo W IEG,

aa Uva
- TUNUALUT YY
“DINU Xv] ~ ~~ 7" Layauoreg

“SS8I

‘quiod-Mop pur
‘IOJOMLOWALIY] ‘LoyoULOIVE
TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

206

91 £1 £2 I Rear Stores f I I £1 z ¥ I pura “g “N sXep jo zoqunyy
€1 § I t 4 ee iat es aa: i FI ; T tat Nsecae a f pula ‘q sup jo 1aquinyy
#99 ag Pete th 4 oA eles au ae £¢ eg § I 9 ¢ PUI "W “Gg SAup Jo requInyy
8g | me ieee mead ¥¢ 20 § G OL @8 g 8 T § ~-"pura ‘g skep jo raquimyy
Fook by reas f¢ 8 TOL 8 fy 4 8 8 g I il PUIM "AA “Gg SAup Jo toqurn yy
tye se il 4 ¥§ I II ¢ i I! G T T ~~ pura “A, SAvp Jo aquinyy
¥O0L ELT £21 tle ane £2 ¥ 9 9 OL 8 8 9T | PUM MN SAup Jo roquinyy
foe g £9 $Z ral 4 £2 -T I i g ? ~" pura “NV sup Jo zaqumy
Comat | |OtE coo 10 ‘T apyuridg | oppurdg j-------- 1€ 0 1Z ‘0 09 ‘T £6 °8 0g °8 Go '& ~" Ure JO SOYOUT FO Loquan yy
09 € Z 6 i ee ae er Ss § v 6 6 ral jh -----£urer sep Jo Iaquiny
Zs 6 Pee Or g g v L F raf 6 9 g ~-- <pnopo skep Jo roquinyy
£66 61 02 at 92 9G 1G 02 &% 6 81 OL Gi aie eee Iwao sAvp Jo JoquInyy
“PS8T

9 i, lil El | (Gry ie | (apa ama | a a | ap —c eese |I? Leledag Ske ake | ae aln —aee fp “--"} pura ‘q “Ni sfAvp Jo LoquMm yy

6 j See og | ear SS TE SS a laste as | Se | AR Sake Fs I sage i a Be T “- pura “q sAvp Jo Jaquinyy
TOL z g j 6 GZ ¥Z § L L 6 g &1 pul “YG SAup Jo JoquIN Ny
0€ G G I ¥ j I ¥ ¥ Soran eee Zz Z ~~ "pura ‘g sfep Jo 1oquin ny
09 G v £ ) § Z L OL L OL € v PULA “AA 'S SAUp Jo JoquINNT
§ | a a na | aa FPS al PII ea act ST Aaa baie re SR alae Fa Tigtj ea St te pe eS) Sos ae ~-puta *A\ sfep jo raqumy
OST 91 &I 6% 6 I line oe &1 L 8 II 91 6 pura "AN Sep Jo Foquinyy
91 Cie | aoe. F | I ea eine, Va ia eee g eee eta: (3 (A € I Z z “-pura "Ny sfep Jo 1aquim yy
COMO Cammee eceerdnees a te Atteeianria cms) sce |e a SS cae |e cape ica le tc eee Part IOI TI I “|"-U1et Jo seqour Jo 1aqumN
9g ¥ 9 I ON ac 2% I 9 L 8 9 Zt | 77 Aures sfvp jo soquinyy
OL 9 Il F i 6 z 4 9 L L € ZI = | 7 ~Apnoy sdvp jo oquinyy
686 TZ &I 92 8% (Xe GZ 1Z 61 91 91 61 Lee ae qeapo sep Jo Jequinyy

ri “SS8T
] tn A Wipe en ree game eee eae a) Rae ie)
|
‘[eyOT, |1,Wd909q | I, WaAON]| “10q03009 | 1,u1a4dag/ ‘ysnsny |} ‘Aine ‘oun “AVL Judy | ‘yoavypy |'A naqog | Arenuve | ‘pul pu UleI—10q}V9 AA

‘2 ON ‘HIAVL DALLVUVANOO
207

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

“quetaInsvour nay oy Aprvou AOA soyeuurxordde popiooer yunoure JenuuY oyy, “AovrMooe OYTPUOTOR
WIM uMOp gnd oq youuws EET OF UTeA jo ][ey BATVLYTJURND A[YYUOU oy ‘IoyomtorANtd apquyzns v YIM OMT UT poprAocid Suteq yoN “AyTyULNh 07 sduaTezau
qnoy}IA ‘{[ay UreL sse_ 10 o10UL yey} ‘sAvp AuTer Sq pu ‘ o[qIstA Suyoq aAdyVYM Spnojo ou “a t—avapo AJaxyUO yurow st sep Iva A{—'sMuvNaY

L $ Ge pear ere oe Spe ais ea Sea se dea eee ‘a ¢ ¢ £2 pura ‘q ‘N sAep Jo toquin yy
¥¢ i FI say ial ass ee ee oe a a aes pircizis|| tas: $ + +1 ---pura ‘gq skvp Jo oquInN
£08 4 9 9 L £01 ¥8 OL £9 9 8 9 ¥9 pura “Gq “g sXup Jo LequinN
£6 a! I ia! v 6 IL £9 th ¥¢ $S z &1 |" "pura 'g sdep Jo Joquinyy
£06 $11 {4 TOL 4) $8 16 t9 II $8 ¢ g g pula “MA 'S Sep Jo JoqunN
£6 aa % I ie | ioe gatsabaat 41 I I I aa ort | -- pura “A, Shep Jo coquinyy
$16 £6 L £01 or ¥% 1% g £8 $8 E01 01 SI | PUIM AA’ N Shep jo toquinN
£42 tF L I Doe ae eae eee POSS pies ater rl | eee Z 7 £z  —_|-- puta ‘N sfup Jo roquinyy

99°8T \00°% Gc Oe meet iad agit ies ALTE CL 0 a eisai | 10 ‘0 GIT eer 02 'F 9F'S 19°% --UIBI JO SATPUL JO Laquin

09 S\N doe ng ial br pied (2 | ipa | ae aa z 9 g 8 6 ea, ---- <urer skup jo requin Ny

€IT 8 It FT L g 6 Zz 6 FL ET € ST ---pnopo skep jo lequinyy

261 Or 6 LI 1Z 92 GZ 92 sl) 8 OT 9T oe Sa qeopo sep Jo Joquun yy

“GG8T
"TRJOY, | W909q) 1,UIOAON| *10q.0300 | I,uteydog) ysnsny; ‘Apne ‘oune “ACT qdy | ‘qorpy | A naga | Avenue} ‘pura pue ulel—z1oyyve

‘penuiyu0j9—'Z “ON WIAVL AALLYYVdWOO
208 TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

TABLE No. 3.

Observations for twenty-four successive hours, taken on the 19th of
June, 1855.

]

Hour. | Barometer.| Thermom- | Clouds, their | Wind, direc- | Dew-point.| Relative
eter. course and| tion and humidity.
velocity. force.
Inches. 0 °

Rn Uses ese 29.97 COPA | fe Sie ae eae Sigh alse a6 56 . 838
Siar moose 29. 97 ie siy, |S See ees SH” gpese 64 . 761
Guana sys ent 29.97 Obras Sect ao seas Sob de eee 52 . 668
f Gals 0 ee 29.97 G Sita eo cece res boi Sane Reema 51 » 592
Stamos cr 29.97 Cr et ae ae ape Subp 22s 50 . 540
Oia vanes oe 29.98 ALUN | ete Sa IS] ee gees Dik . 541
MO Vaemnee so 29.98 (i er\ RES ees ee Saline see 51 463
Java nme sane 29.97 I Hes Safa eras Sao Eis ull ee 52 . 438
Were vee 29.97 SA ee Stirs te eye ae So Wy heen 50 . 356
TS) Oy tare core 29.96 Soyg seas aes SidWiemrns a2 50 . 346
4 yl Noes aro 29.94 SGN ia se ors tes ee S... Wats ae 50 . 336
Sup ewe 29. 95 SS ak |e etoeeeee = ish. Wii rasan 50 . 318
aap me eee 29.93 Situs aoe oes Se We -2tond 50 . 326
Spm se Ss 29.93 SB yi | eat ror Smweaz fa 2s 49 . 336
<i)) [Oni area 29.93 OZ Blaeaicece sees Span fege Ur rept 49 . 367
Cf (Osa ere. 29.93 {Eee an Mii es Saas Si We Wtee2 48 . 387
Sipsmec scr 29.96 (Sn Le me pe an Sy Di lee. 48 . 451
Ohm) eae a 29.96 U7 er ee Peele as ese 2 46 . 450
HO Mp ama 2 29.95 Ou aceasta Silke dieee 45 .463
LiL OM Taree esos 29. 94. evs |S sem ce, ai eee Shales 46 . 509
D2 ipymces oe 29.95 “Glipedlie cto oreo So is betes 48 . 558
Wane ke see 29.95 C13, | bape ee Pe Sh de he 88 49 . 591
Sees ees 29. 94 em | Pee es se ean Sle Presee 52 . 668
S) Alaa ei a ceases 29.93 G2iet eee ee see tae Sieh dees 54 . 186
Aram es 322 29. 94 Giles 2 seer She Uae mec 56 . 861

Remarws.—The mean temperature of the 22d, the period of our summer solstice, was
so much beyond the average, it is deemed best to record the hourly observations made
on the 19th, as most useful for purposes of comparison and correction.

"The departure of the mean temperature of the 19th from that of the 22d June, 1854,
was 1.50 degrees minus.
19th,) was the same as that of this year.

The reading of the barometer varied only 0.01 inch from the average of three years
on the 22d June. The wind of the corresponding day in 1854 prevailed from N.W.., light ;

sky clear.
cirri-strati.

The mean temperature of the corresponding day last year, (the

In 1853 the wind was fresh from the §., and sky more or less invested with

[From the foregoing table, it appears that on this day the maxi-

mum temperature occurred at 3p. m., and the minimum at 4 a. m.
The maximum of humidity was at 4 a. m., and the minimum at 3
p.m. and since the wind continued light during the day, these re-
sults are probably the same as those which would be obtained from
the observations during a number of days. The barometer exhibits
two maxima and two minima, but the points at which these occur are
not precisely marked. |
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 209
TABLE No. 4.

Observations for twenty-four successive hours, taken on the 22d of

September, 1855.

Hour.

»
ws
=]

Hee

PAIANMDAANTDAAND AA NDAANTDAANDAANTNDAANTDAANDWAANTDAWAA ATA Gwe
PACES CDOS CSOD SORES OS SS CD

Barometer.| Thermom- | Clouds, their

Inches.
29.90
29. 89
29. 86
29.88
29.90
29.923
29.93
29.90
29.89
29. 90
29. 90
29. 90
29.92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92
29. 92
29.93
29.93
29.92

on Ono

eter.

course and
velocity.

bo ii
rte
442

b
Aaa 3 aaaas

Wind, direc- | Dew-point.

tion and
force.

AT TRA ATTA AA Oh
=
—
!
i
1
1

48

52

52

52

52

52

52

52

52

52

52

52

Relative
humidity.

. 827
. 802
. 129
. T06
. 600
. 608
. 574
. 574.
Od
. 494
493
. 465
. 479
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,
. 5D By
. 540
. 630
. 648,

PPE
