veh he NY
3 ® ei ay
aise ea ey 8 PoE aha

ite ta ate epee s

aati ye
en
en ew

ae
e
Fae
ta
a

cen af 2 * r
"fe fe Is !
fy e |
atts ate’ & et
EekopbD » B®

eee & eee ee
f* @ Bo oe Fo ee
s as x et fs 2 © © fe Sf

ie ae) ® ® B a ae 7
f & te fe ie & «ae eae * ve & oe 1 ye
i ee & Ss + My ‘3 *»’ @ YO we ee Bee ew
(. fe & # eo > & va is > ie Pd @@ @ ® &
¥ .. po ee & eNO Re ww

prutstorar hs vststatatata ea tate
_8 : es ae hy 4 ‘=. : i ry
i.

Ww & B 7 ie e 8 & ee ew ee,
eh »e eee we ® & &
es ee
| aweeee 2 a & &

y. * -3 8 ve » & & ®
i ae neue 3 # 0 2
‘aoe » eo & e & ee

1

ev se ye ew

ae te ® @ € :

pr, et - i es ¥ if 7 i) ie a : a ; ot

“*,
a
"a

sowie bw © F fe
ve of vy. * ® & 8 ee ew
ee Ob “ oe + ee,
| J _.¢ 4 i ; i i a cua
ee ACA nnn a & em

Ya a ee, sha Ha

F i" ¢
ee

pp
: nie - Papi
; rahe

Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4478

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the
Institution for the Year Ended June 30
1961

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1962

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington 25, D.C. - Price $4.25
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SmIrHsontan Instrrurion,
Washington, December 29, 1961.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1961.

Respectfully,

LronarpD CARMICHAEL, Secretary.
It
CONTENTS

"NE, EVDO a | t0reg) Re yc ee Ae Py ICL BS ee ete ncn rn Pe PO eS
DUE PEG BS oe co ep hs Mg ag lh IN pela gS 8g ls aye oa YA TTY
SETS eS ES oe en AG Bi gt Se LL abr os SA
Reports of branches of the Institution:
Maiced states’ National Museum: -<"=o8 22 ee
BureaurofeAmericans BGhnolo gy 2 weer 2 = ees eee ee
SErOpMysTCAl CDSELVATOLY = 2c: 2 eyo os Deg ee
Mavional Collection of Mine Arts] 20% 222 oe 33s ee ee eS
PE Ora ANOUY (Ol TARDE 2.2 ee rk ae PE ER Sc po ea ee aoe
Peete AIT IVERSEN se oot ee ES eo ges
INA CIOMAlyHOGIOPICAINE ARK O25. fl Pee a ar a ae
ie amuecone biological Ares! 22 =* 202 jelSe se ye NS e Ne aes
fnrernatioual Pixchinge Services <--— 2.2 se 2 ye oe ee
Wational Gallery of Arts. = 225.25. bes So pe Se ee a A
Beporionmhembnrany eso 25 SUE We soit AR
et eriia OL IU OLICH CIOS 2 SSeS hy ee RS eye se a
Other activities:
1 E/T 2s Ba eR gg ch mS ep ON Soa ine ee a
mcienee, Information Mixchange 2. <2) 2 SE ee eee ae ee
Santhsonian: Museum:Service.s_ 2 Sh2 5 2S ole Sol oe

GENERAL APPENDIX

Some astronomical aspects of life in the universe, by Su-Shu Huang______
rays from the sun, by Herbert Friedman]. =) 22-32-5225 e225
The challenge of space exploration, by Robert C. Seamans, Jr_-__-_-_---
The Smithsonian’s satellite-tracking program: Its history and organization,

Sie LENE DISET] BA 7 I a PO Re a nS ce
The main lines of mathematics, by J. L. B. Cooper_...-----------_----
Early experiments in instrument flying, by James H. Doolittle__________
Three famous early aero engines, by Robert B. Meyer, Jr__-__----_-_--_-
Organic chemistry: a view and a prospect, by Sir Alexander Todd___-__-_-
me mew ape of the sea, by Philip B. Yeager_..-.___...--.__----.--_--
Drilling beneath the deep sea, by William E. Benson____-_-----_-_-___-
A natural history of trilobites, by H. B. Whittington. _.___.__._.-_______-
Chromosomes and the theory of heredity, by C. D. Darlington_________-
serapieal climates and biology, by G. S. Carter........---.-.-2...--_--
Mencour acropiolozy, by P. H. Gregory. 2-3-2 a2 aoe 5-2 ase

‘institution UV 16 1962

110
124
133

183
192
205
209

218

"218

219
221
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Page

The detection and evasion of bats by moths, by Kenneth D. Roeder and
Weber Bie Preah. 202 case = Soca es Se aoa nee eee ols ee ee eee ne 455
The honey. bes, by vames ©. Hambleton 26 a2 oe ne eee eee 465
Australopithicines and the origin of man, by J. T. Robinson_----------- 479
Evolution, genetics, and anthropology, by A. E. Mourant_------------- 501
The skull of Shanider {by L. Da Stewarts-2--..-2--- 2c oe a 521

Heyerdahl’s Kon-Tiki theory and its relation to ethnobotany, by F. P.
AKO 2 al ae eB eC RS See ema ae NOC Oob eae 535
Minerals in art and archeology, by Rutherford J. Gettens_------------- 551

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report:

Pistes 2c eee a eee ee ae eee See ee eS eee eee ae 62
latestos Ore ee nee tees ee eee ae ee ee ne ee ee ee 110
IRIRbeS he O et ta 2 Ak ee eel Dee ee ene See eee 134
lates O14 See ee eee ee eae ee eee 198
Astronomical aspects of life (Huang): Plates 1-3___------------------- 246
Satellite-tracking program (Hayes): Plates 1-4_.__-_.____--..----------- 294
Instrument dying: (Doolittle): Plates 2202-5 22 SS eee eee 342
arly mero engines: (Meyer) Plates 1-Qte s Ulett eee et eee 358
New iage. of theses (Yeager)? Plates 1-32 2-2 eo eee eae ee eee 390
Dnilling beneath the’sea (Benson): Plates 1-4. -_-2-=22 22-22 ss esse 398
eErilobites: @Wihitvngton)\s, blates | — Seat sss sees eee eee 406
Tropical climates and biology (Carter): Plates 1-4__--_---------------- 438
Werabiology (Gregory) =. Pilates ly 22s cere 2 oi See oe eae eee 446
Detection and evasion of bats by moths (Roeder and Treat): Plates 1-6. 462
Honey, bee: <Hambleton): Plates 1-40 su Se ee eee eee 470
Skullsot Shanidarella(Stewart) se lates il 9 mas ey eee ee ee ee 526

Minerals in art and archeology (Gettens): Plates 1-8..-_-.--.--.------ 566
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1961

Presiding Officer ex officio—Joun F. KENNEDY, President of the United States.
Chancellor—Eart WakkEN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
JoHN F. KenNepy, President of the United States.
Lynpon B. JoHnson, Vice President of the United States.
HarL WaRkEN, Chief Justice of the United States.
DEAN Rusk, Secretary of State.
DovueLas DILLON, Secretary of the Treasury.
Rosert 8S. McNamara, Secretary of Defense.
Rosert F. Kennepy, Attorney General.
J. Epvwarp Day, Postmaster General.
Stewart L. UDALL, Secretary of the Interior.
OrvVILLE L. FREEMAN, Secretary of Agriculture.
LuTHER H. Honess, Secretary of Commerce.
ARTHUR J. GOLDBERG, Secretary of Labor.
ABRAHAM A. Ripicorr, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
Wart WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Lynpon B. JoHnson, Vice President of the United States.
CLINTON P, ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
J. WILLIAM FULBRIGHT, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
FRANK T. Bow, Member of the House of Representatives.
Overton Brooxs, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN NIcHoLaAs Brown, citizen of Rhode Island.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
Rospert VY. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D.C.
CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Delaware.
Cary P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee—Rosert V. FLEMING, Chairman, CLARENCE CANNON,
CaryL P. HASKINS.
Secretary.—LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries—A. REMINGTON Kettloaa, JAMES C. BRADLEY.
Assistant to the Secretary.—THEODORE W. TAYLOR.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary—Mrs. Louise M. PEraRson.
Treasurer.—Hpear L. Roy.
Chief, editorial and publications division —PAUL H. OEHSER.
Librarian—RovutH BE. BLANCHARD.
Curator, Smithsonian Museum Service-—G. CARROLL LINDSAY.
Buildings Manager.—ANvDREW F.. MICHAELS, JR.
Director of Personnel.—J. A. KENNEDY.
Chief, supply division—A. W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic service division—O. H. GREESON.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director—A. Remington Kellogg.
Registrar.—Helena M. Weiss.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director.—A. C. Smith.
Administrative Officer.—Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: T. Dale Stewart, head curator; A. J. Andrews,
exhibits specialist.
Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., G. W.
Van Beek, associate curators.
Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, curator; G. D. Gibson, H. I. Knez,
associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, acting curator; M. T.
Newman, associate curator.
DEPARTMENT oF ZooLtocy: F. A. Chace, Jr., acting head curator,
Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; C. O. Handley, Jr., H. W.
Setzer, associate curators.
Division of Birds: H. G. Deignan, curator.
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator.
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor,
associate curators.
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. BE.
Crabill, Jr., W. D. Field, O. 8S. Flint, Jr., associate curators.
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; F. M. Bayer,
T. E. Bowman, C. E. Cutress, Jr., associate curators.
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. HE. Morrison, associate
curator.
DEPARTMENT OF BoTaANy (NATIONAL HERBARIUM): J. R. Swallen, head curator.
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. S. Cowan, E. C.
Leonard, Velva E. Rudd, J. J. Wurdack, associate curators.
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, acting curator; T. R. Soderstrom,
assistant curator.
Division of Cryptogams: M. H. Hale, Jr., associate curator in charge; P. S.
Conger, associate curator; R. R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Woods: W. L. Stern, curator.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: G. A. Cooper, head curator.
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, curator; P. BE. Des-
autels, E. P. Henderson, associate curators; R. S. Clarke, Jr., chemist.
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: R. S. Boardman,
associate curator in charge; P. M. Kier, Richard Cifelli, EH. G. Kauffman,
associate curators.
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; Nicholas Hot-
ton, III, associate curator; I’. L. Pearce, exhibits specialist.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director.—F. A. Taylor.

Assistant Director.—J. C. Ewers.
Administrative officer—W. H. Boyle.
Chief exhibits specialist —J. E. Anglim.
SECRETARY’S REPORT VII

In charge of Taridermy.—W. M. Perrygo.

Assistant chief exhibits specialists.—B. S. Bory, R. O. Hower, B. W. Lawless, Jr.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY: R. P. Multhauf, head curator.
Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multhauf, acting curator.

Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: R. M. Vogel, curator in
charge; EH. A. Battison, associate curator.

Division of Transportation: H. I, Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, J. H.
White, Jr., associate curators.

Division of Electricity: R. P. Multhauf, acting curator.

Division of Medical Sciences: J. B. Blake, curator; S. K. Hamarneh,
associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES: P. W. Bishop, head curator.
Division of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, associate curator in charge.
Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, associate curator in charge.
Division of Graphic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator; Eugene Ostroff, F. O.

Griffith, associate curators.

Division of Manufactures and Heavy Industries: P. W. Bishop, acting
curator; C. O. Houston, Jr., associate curator.

Division of Agriculture and Forest Products: FE. C. Kendall, associate
curator in charge.

DEPARTMENT OF Civit History: R. H. Howland, head curator; P. C. Welsh,

associate curator; Arlene P. Kringold, assistant curator.

Division of Political History: W. E. Washburn, curator; Mrs. Margaret
Brown Klapthor, associate curator; Mrs. Anne W. Murray, H. R. Collins,
assistant curators.

Division of Cultural History: C. Malcolm Watkins, curator; Rodris C. Roth,
associate curator; Cynthia L. Adams, J. N. Pearce, assistant curators;
Anthony Hathaway, junior curator.

Division of Philately and Postal History: G. T. Turner, associate curator
in charge; F. J. McCall, associate curator; C. H. Scheele, assistant
curator.

Division of Numismatics: Viadimir Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator in
charge; Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Forces History: M. L. Peterson, head curator.

Division of Military History: H. M. Howell, curator; C. R. Goins, Jr.,
associate curator.

Division of Naval History: P. IK. Lundeberg, associate curator in charge.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—¥. H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Anthropologist.—H. B. Collins, Jr.

Ethnologists.—W. C. Sturtevant, W. L. Chafe.

River Basin Surveys.—F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; R. L. Stephenson,
Chief, Missouri Basin Project.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—F. L. Whipple.

Assistant Director.—C. W. Tillinghast.

Astronomers.—G. A. Bakos, G. Colombo, G. H. Conant, Jr., L. Goldberg, I. G.
Izsak, Y. Kozai, K. Lassovszky, J. Slowey, P. E. Zadunaisky.

Mathematicians.—R. E. Briggs, D. A. Lautman.

Physicists —R. J. Davis, BH. L. Fireman, F. Franklin, O. Gingerich, M. Grossi,
P. W. Hodge, L. G. Jacchia, M. Krook, R. E. McCrosky, R. B. Riggs, Jr.,
O. Rustgi, A. Skalafuris, R. B. Southworth, D. Tilles, C. A. Whitney.
vir ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Geodesists.—J. Rolff, G. Veis.
Geologist.—J. Wood.
TABLE MouUNTAIN, CALIF., FIELD STATION.—A. G. Froiland, physicist.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—W. H. Klein.
Plant physiologists —J. L. Edwards, V. B. Elstad, L. Loercher, L. Price.
Biophysicist—W. Shropshire.
Biochemist.—M. Margulies.
Cytogeneticist—R. L. Latterell.
Electronic Engineer.—J. H. Harrison.
Instrument maker.—D. G. Talbert.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—T. M. Beggs.
Associate curator.—Rowland Lyon.
SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE.—Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.— A. G. Wenley.

Assistant Director.—J. A. Pope.

Head curator, Near Eastern Art—Richard Ettinghausen.
Curator, Japanese Art.—H. P. Stern.

Associate curator, Chinese Art.—J. F. Cahill.

Head curator, Laboratory.—R. J. Gettens.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM
Advisory Board:

Leonard Carmichael, Chairman.
Maj. Gen. Brooke Allen, U.S. Air Force.
Rear Adm. P. D. Stroop, U.S. Navy.
Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle.
Grover Loening.
Director.—P. S. Hopkins.
Head curator and historian.—P. E. Garber.
Associate curators.—L. 8S. Casey, W. M. Male, K. E. Newland.
Junior curator.—R. B. Meyer.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
Director.—T. H. Reed.
Associate Director.— J. l. Grimmer.
Veterinarian.—James F. Wright.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA
Resident Naturalist—M. H. Moynihan.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Chief.—J. A. Collins.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
DEAN Rusk, Secretary of State.
Douce Las DIL1on, Secretary of the Treasury.
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
F. LamMMor BELIn.
SECRETARY'S REPORT Ix

Trustees—Continued

JoHN HAy WHITNEY.

CHESTER DALE.

PavuL MELLON.

Rusu H. Kress.
President.—CHESTER DALE.
Vice President,—PAvuL MELLON.
Secretary-Treasurer.— HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.— JOHN WALKER.
Administrator. —ERNEST R. FEIDLER.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—Prrry B. Cort.

zs, =) 8, 2
Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
John E. Graf
UniTEp States NATIONAL MusEUM

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Anthropology
J. M. Campbell, Archeology. F. M. Setzler, Anthropology.
N. M. Judd, Archeology. H. Morgan Smith, Archeology.
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology. W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology. W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology.
Zoology
Doris H. Blake, Insects. W. L. Jellison, Insects.
J. Bruce Bredin, Biology. Allen McIntosh, Mollusks.
M. A. Carriker, Insects. J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates.
Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates. C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects.
C. J. Drake, Insects. W. L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates.
Herbert Friedmann, Birds. Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology.
D. C. Graham, Biology. R. E. Snodgrass, Insects.
H. H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine Invertebrates. | T. H. Snyder, Insects.
A. B. Howell, Mammals. H. K. Townes, Insects.
F. M. Hull, Insects. Alexander Wetmore, Birds.
Laurence Irving, Birds. Mildred 8. Wilson, Copepod Crustacea.
Botany
C. R. Benjamin, Fungi. Kittie F. Parker, Phanerogams.
Agnes Chase, Grasses. J. A. Stevenson, Fungi.
E. P. Killip, Phanerogams, W.N. Watkins, Woods.
F. A. McClure, Grasses.
Geology
R. 8. Bassler, Paleontology. C. W. Cooke, Invertebrate Paleontology.
R. W. Brown, Paleobotany. W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy.

P. E. Cloud, Invertebrate Paleontology
x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961
MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY
Exhibits
W. L. Brown.
History
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Cultural | I. N. Hume, Cultural History.
History. F. W. MacKay, Numismatics.
Hh. C. Herber, History.
Science and Technology

Derek J. Price.

BuREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

J. P. Harrington. M. W. Stirling.
Sister M. Inez Hilger. A. J. Waring, Jr.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
C. G. Abbot.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Oleg Grabar. Max Loehr.
Grace Dunham Guest. Katherine N. Rhoades.

NATIONAL Ain MusEUM
Frederick C. Crawford. | John J. Ide.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
EH. P. Walker.
CanaL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

C. C. Soper.
Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution
LEONARD CARMICHAEL

For the Year Ended June 30, 1961

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the
activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961.

GENERAL STATEMENT

Just 115 years ago, Joseph Henry presented to the first Board of
Regents of the Institution, at their request, a “Program of Organ-
ization of the Smithsonian Institution.” While this document was
being formulated, Henry was still a professor at Princeton and
actively engaged in teaching and experimental work in physics.
He was a man of broad influence. His eminence in science had already
led his contemporaries to describe him as being next to Franklin
in the list of great American physical scientists. The program that
he outlined for the Smithsonian was so good that he was almost at
once offered the position of Secretary of the Institution. After much
hesitation he accepted the post and spent the next 32 years skillfully
putting into practice and developing the plan that he had evolved.

Today, as we look at Henry’s program for the Smithsonian and
study the steps that he took to give it reality, we are struck by his
wisdom and especially by his foresight. Before writing the basic
program, Henry acquainted himself with the life and the attitudes
of the distinguished English scientist, James Smithson, whose bequest
established the Institution. This study led Henry to place great
emphasis on the words Smithson himself had used to describe the
objective of his establishment, that it should be “for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

It is almost startling to note, in spite of intervening wars and many
social and economic changes, that the constructive activities of the
Smithsonian Institution in 1961 can still accurately be subsumed under
the headings of the zncrease and diffusion of knowledge as directed by
Smithson and as made a reality by Joseph Henry.
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

By means of research publications, popular publications, museum
activities, lectures, international exchange of scientific documents, —
and a voluminous correspondence, the Institution during the current
year, as in Henry’s time, has effectively diffused knowledge. By
investigations in a wide range of fields, the Smithsonian has also
continued the research for which it has long been world-famous and
that has increased the true sum of human knowledge. It can there-
fore be said with assurance that the current year has been outstanding
in the two main activities which both Smithson and Henry saw as
fundamental at the Smithsonian.

Much progress was made during the year on the new buildings that
will soon help in a most basic way these great twin objectives. Con-
struction progressed on the additional monumental building of the
Institution which when completed will house and display the notable
collections of the Smithsonian in the fields of history and technology.
The laying of the cornerstone of this building, with appropriate cere-
monies, took place on May 19. Work was also begun on the building
of the long-needed East Wing of the Natural History Building. De-
tails of these building operations are given on later pages of this
report.

Good progress was also made in the continuing gradual renovation
of all exhibits now displayed in existing Smithsonian buildings. It
may be appropriate and useful to recapitulate here the work that
has been completed in this great program since it began some eight
years ago, inasmuch as such a summary has not previously been pre-
sented in any annual report of the Institution.

1. FOSSIL PLANTS AND INVERTEBRATES

The new Hall of Fossil Plants and Invertebrate Animals shows in
a modern series of artistically arranged exhibits the scientific record
of the early development of life on this planet. At the very beginning
of the hall care is taken to show and explain what a fossil is, what
animals and plants have been found as fossils, how animals become
entombed in rocks, and how the geologic time scale was formed. A
special case displays what may well be the oldest fossil known.
Visitors see not only some of the Smithsonian’s outstanding fossil
preparations but also full-scale reproductions by means of colored
models of typical groups of the plants and animals that lived all over
the globe in the warm seas of millions of years ago. An exhibit called
“Giants of the Past” shows some of the largest. known invertebrate
fossils. As in all modern Smithsonian exhibits, this hall displays only
a small fraction of the total collections of fossil plants and inverte-
brates that belong to the Institution. Those selected for public display
are shown in such a way as to give each visitor a vivid, interesting,
and accurate introduction to the basic science of paleontology. The
SECRETARY'S REPORT 3

remaining collections in this, as in all fields, are available for study
by qualified students.

2. FOSSIL FISHES AND AMPHIBIANS

The Hall of Fossil Fishes, Amphibians, and Primitive Reptiles
displays selections from the Smithsonian’s superb collections of these
fossil creatures which represent the most primitive groups of back-
boned animals. Here are many actual skeletons of some of these great
ancient animals that ruled the land and the seas before modern ani-
mals evolved. This hall portrays in a particularly clear way the
development of jaws and the anatomical changes related to the transi-
tion from life in water to life on the land. A habitat group illustrates
for the visitor what some of these animals were actually like when
they ranged the globe. A life-size diorama shows conflict between
two kinds of pelycosaurs, or fin-backed reptiles, as might have hap-
pened 260 million years ago.

8. PREHISTORIC MAMMALS

In the Hall of the Age of Mammals in North America lifelike
dioramas and scientifically accurate and artistically significant murals
recreate a mammalian world that existed before modern man ap-
peared. Here are shown skeletons of some of the marine and land
mammals that swam, climbed, ran, or even flew millions of years ago.
To give but one example, in a well-lighted case is the complete fossil
skeleton of a 55-foot-long primitive whale. The remarkable series of
skeletons exhibited in this hall were painstakingly collected by Smith-
sonian scientists in the field over many years and were then skillfully
prepared for display in the museum laboratory of the Institution.

4. GEMS AND MINERALS

The Smithsonian Institution has one of the world’s great collections
of minerals. Competent observers declare that the Smithsonian’s
new Hall of Minerals is the best single exhibition of its kind in the
world. The immediately adjacent Gem Room is also spoken of as
the best exhibition of gems on public display in the United States.
Thousands of specimens, many of them of great rarity and beauty,
are featured in cases at an ideal height and so lighted as to show
colors properly. The galleries are arranged so that the student of
mineralogy can learn about both the crystalline structures of min-
erals and the chemical composition of the specimens displayed. But
the hall is also significant from an esthetic and natural-history point
of view for persons interested in minerals and gems as beautiful ob-
jects rather than as basic specimens for the science of mineralogy.
One dramatic case shows selected minerals under ultraviolet light,
which causes them to fluoresce with glows of many different colors.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Here too, by the use of a rotating disk, the radioactivity of a natural
uranium ore is demonstrated.

This hall displays only 3 percent of the total Smithsonian’s mineral
collection, which has been gradually assembled by transfer to the In-
stitution of minerals collected by other Government agencies, by pur-
chases made possible by the expenditure of funds given to the
Smithsonian exclusively for this purpose, and by gifts of minerals
and gems by many citizens, not only of America but also of countries
throughout the world. In the Gem Room in a specially constructed
safe is the Hope Diamond, the largest deep blue diamond in the world.
Because of its rarity and aura of romantic mystery it is of intense
interest to visitors.

5. THE JADE ROOM

Immediately adjoining the Gem Hall is a room devoted to a collec-
tion of carved jade given to the Smithsonian in 1958 by the executors
of the estate of the late Mrs. Maud Monel Vetlesen. This collection
shows many large and beautifully carved jade objects from the 17th
and 18th centuries. Many objects displayed here, such as the jade and
gold scepters of old imperial China, are world famous.

Adjacent to the Jade Room is a new but still temporary display of
outstanding examples of meteorites from the Institution’s large collec-
tion of these natural objects that so unpredictably come to the earth

from outer space.
6. LATIN AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY

The Hall of Latin American Archeology brings together a unified
range of important objects selected from the Smithsonian’s extensive
study collections of articles made by inhabitants of Central and South
America before the coming of Columbus. The exhibits portray the
wide range of early cultures in Latin America from those of simple
hunting and fishing people to the high civilizations of the Incas,
Mayas, and Aztecs.

The emphasis of this hall is given to cultural development and the
interchange of material objects by Indians before the advent of
Europeans. The great accomplishments of pre-Columbian Indians in
developing a number system, a calendar, and the cultivation of plants
are shown. Some of the stone sculpture is remarkably modern in its
feeling and execution. Here, as in all other new Smithsonian halls,
the visitor is not presented with ponderous cases of the almost end-
lessly repeated ceramic, stone, gold, silver, and other objects that
are in the possession of the Institution. This old, so-called “visual
storage,” method of exhibition has for good reasons been abandoned.
The objects on public display today are carefully chosen to give a
coherent picture of each topic under consideration. Such general
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

instruction cannot be conveyed to the nonexpert visitor by case after
case of almost identical artifacts.

It should be added parenthetically that from the standpoint of
scientific American archeology and ethnology the study collections
of the Smithsonian are perhaps even more important than the collec-
tions on public display. Each year these study collections are becoming
organized in a more accessible way, so that they may be used effectively
by qualified research scientists.

7. NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY

The Hall of North American Archeology displays selected objects
from the collections of the Smithsonian dealing with prehistoric
cultures of the Eskimo and the American Indians of the far North,
the North Pacific coast, California, and the Southwest. The visitor
gains a synoptic view of different styles of life of human beings in
these areas of the continent in the centuries before the coming of the
white man. Outstanding exhibits deal with primitive methods of
quarrying, mining, making artifacts of stone, cultivating crops, and
developing ornaments, household utensils, and many varieties of
carved and sculptured pipes used in smoking tobacco. The objects
displayed in this one new hall were selected from cataloged collections
which number over 600,000 items. A second North American Indian
Hall, which will show the prehistoric cultures of other North Ameri-
can Indians, is now being prepared for public display.

8. NATIVE PEOPLES OF THE AMERICAS

This anthropological hall shows typical examples of the life char-
acteristic of the native peoples in both North America and South
America. Large glass-sided rooms have been installed depicting out-
standing patterns of behavior of particular Indian tribes from Cal-
ifornia, the Southwest, and south to the Fuegians at the lowest tip of
South America. Here full-scale figures prepared under the direction
of expert physical anthropologists and modeled by skillful sculptors
illustrate ways of life considered by anthropologists to be of special
significance in relation to each group represented. Some of these
world-famous models have been shown in older exhibits at the Smith-
sonian for many years, but before the development of the present
modern, well-lighted, well-organized presentations many of them were
not exhibited to best advantage. The present-day Smithsonian staff
owes a debt of gratitude to their skillful and devoted predecessors who
as much as 60 years ago created these scientifically correct figures that
can now for the first time be displayed adequately. In this hall, also,
by means of small dioramas, other typical phases of general life of
the Indians of the Caribbean, of California, and of other regions of
the continent are portrayed.
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961
9. INDIAN AND ESKIMO ARTS AND CUSTOMS

The American Indian Hall dealing with the Eskimo and with the
Indians of the Eastern woodlands, the Great Plains, and the North
Pacific coast differs markedly from the one just described. In this
hall or series of halls are displayed notable items from the Smith-
sonian’s vast study collections which preserve for scientists hundreds
of thousands of objects or artifacts of the tribes here considered.
Many of the objects shown here in the beautifully lighted and care-
fully labeled cases are unduplicated elsewhere in the world. Today
in the art world much is said of the importance of primitive sculpture
and painting, but the work of the American Indians has not always
been emphasized. In this hall one sees masks and figures that well
illustrate the deep artistic feelings of their creators. The Smith-
sonian, as the central museum of the United States, has long been the
repository for ecllections of Indian objects belonging to the Govern-
ment and dating back even into the colonial period. The Institution
also preserves hundreds of thousands of objects collected by the great
Western explorers of our young country. Army officers on isolated
posts in the old West also were valued collectors for the Smithsonian.
Objects from these and other sources have through the years been
carefully cataloged, protected, and preserved at the Smithsonian. In
this Hall of Indian and Eskimo Arts and Customs many of these
priceless treasures are on public display for the first time. In one
case are originals by George Catlin selected from the 450 paintings of
this master in the collection of the Smithsonian. One of these paint-
ings, for example, shows, almost as a modern color photograph
would, Indians quarrying red pipestone to use in making ceremonial
tobacco pipes. Thus in the same case the visitor can see examples of
completed pipes as well as Catlin’s on-the-spot painting showing
exactly how Indians, who were then hardly influenced at. all by Euro-
peans, carried on this skillful work. It is interesting to note that
the soapstone quarried here is scientifically called “catlinite” in honor
of the artist who painted the very pictures here on display. In this
hall is shown an unusual example of a Great Plains tepee. This large,
portable living establishment of skins, like many other specimens at
the Smithsonian, was first displayed at the Centennial Exhibition in
Philadelphia in 1876, at the close of which 66 freight car loads of
important specimens were brought to the Smithsonian for permanent
preservation. When this hall was being set up this tepee was still
wrapped in old Philadelphia newspapers of the 1870’s. This fact
dramatically illustrates how important the present renovation of
Smithsonian exhibits is for the American people and for visitors to
our shores. As a result of these new displays, many of the great
treasures of the Nation for the first time can be studied and under-
SECRETARY'S REPORT r

stood by the millions of Americans of the present generation who
come in ever-increasing numbers to the museum.

10. THE WORLD OF MAMMALS

Scientifically, the Smithsonian has sometimes been called the Na-
tion’s biological bureau of standards. It has been given this name
because in the Smithsonian’s collections zoological and botanical
specimens are used every day by hundreds of scientists for compari-
son and identification of new or unknown specimens. In connection
with this work, for example, the Institution has developed one of
the great collections of the furs of mammals of the world. Many of
these pelts are kept in special storage rooms at low temperature for
scientific study. In the new World of Mammals Hall, however, the
visitor has an opportunity to see and study, in many instances in
habitat placements, some of the most interesting and important mam-
mals of the globe. These specimens are not presented monotonously
as one “stuffed” animal after another in case after case. Rather, they
are displayed so as to teach the basic principles of biology that are
related to nutrition, locomotion, evolution, ecology, and survival.
Here the student of zoology can see the many different ways in which
the mammals of the world have adapted themselves to tropic heat
and arctic snows. The ecological approach of many of these displays
gives new significance to the exhibits that they present. Some of the
groups of animals are dramatically arranged. Changing lights, for
example, make it possible for the visitor to see first how lions view
their prey, and then how the would-be prey, in this case zebras, view
their would-be predators. Many of the great African mammals dis-
played were collected by President Theodore Roosevelt during his
history-making African Expedition of 1909-10, sponsored by the
Smithsonian Institution.

11. NORTH AMERICAN MAMMALS

In the hall just described, emphasis is given to mammals of the
world exclusive of the great North American mammals. In this
specifically North American Mammal Hall is a series of 12 large
habitat groups showing the great and now often very rare wild ani-
mals of the Northern Hemisphere of America. Each of these large
exhibits not only shows numbers of specimens of such animals as
bison, elk, moose, and bear but also presents each group, often show-
ing both adult and young animals, against a skillfully painted back-
ground of the terrain typical of the habitat of the animal. The
mounted specimens in the foreground are shown in settings of care-
fully reproduced trees, rocks, and other natural items. The rapid
restriction of the range of some of these great animals, and even their

625325—62—_-2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

virtual extinction, make it important to show here each of these groups.
Species such as bighorn sheep and wolves, for example, now occupy
in the wild state only a fraction of the area that was once theirs when
the continent was first known to European settlers. This presenta-
tion is important in zoological training. It gives a record of ani-
mals that played a large part in providing through their furs much
of the wealth of colonial America as well as food and clothing for the
pioneers of the new land.

12. BIRDS OF THE WORLD

Ornithology is one of man’s oldest scientific interests. This is at-
tested by the frequent reference to birds in the Bible and in the writ-
ings of ancient classical authors. The Smithsonian possesses one of
the world’s great collections of birds. The new Bird Hall of the
Institution has been organized to show the principal birds of the world
in natural, effective, and pleasing settings. But the hall goes far
beyond a mere presentation of specimens. It depicts the biology of
bird life in relation to feeding habits, aerial locomotion, nest build-
ing, and the rearing of young. On the ceiling are lifelike paintings
of birds in flight so skillfully done that they seem to be seen in full
round of three-dimensional form as if arrested in flight. A unique
case called “Birds and Man” portrays the role of birds in mythology
and art. In addition to the displays in this hall, the Smithsonian
has, of course, in its study collections, bird specimens from almost
every geographical region of the globe.

13. LIFE IN EARLY AMERICA

The Hall of Life in Early America is an easy transition from the
characteristics of the Indian population of the country and the mam-
mals and birds of America to the life of early European settlers before
the mechanization of the industrial revolution changed the American
way of life. It shows the early life of the European settlers in
America by demonstrating the tools and furniture that they used.
For many years generous donors have brought together at the Smith-
sonian large collections of objects used by Americans in what may
be called the era of the handcrafts. In the present hall are displayed
selected items from these collections, including implements and fur-
niture that the colonists brought with them from England, Ireland,
Germany, Spain, Scandinavia, and many other countries. Next is
shown the adaptation that was made on these shores of these imported
objects as a new and truly American culture gradually emerged.
One may see an entire house built in New England about 1690. In
this building, which was taken down board by board and brick by
brick and transported to Washington and reassembled, are objects
that were actually used during the early period when the house was
SECRETARY’S REPORT 9

inhabited by the artisans who built it. Many of them were collected
and given to the Smithsonian by the donor of the house, Mrs. Arthur
M. Greenwood. In this hall are shown other rooms depicting styles
of life in different colonies—for example, a small but elegant paneled
room of a Virginia gentleman. The visitor may see also a notable
mahogany Philadelphia highboy and a number of cases of fine silver
made in the South, Pennsylvania, New York, and New England.
American forged iron, glass, pottery, pewter, and textiles are all dis-
played. Another feature is an entire schoolroom of an early period
showing the simple desks and equipment of elementary education in
the formative days of our country. This hall has been visited by
millions each year since its opening. Not only are its displays signifi-
cant for Americans, who can learn from them how their predecessors
of European stock lived in pre-industrial revolution days, but also
the hall is especially interesting and important for foreign visitors,
who may absorb something of the evolution of the present style of life
of the United States during the early difficult and formative years
of the country.
14. GOWNS OF THE FIRST LADIES

The First Ladies Hall in a sense carries forward in one special area ~
the same philosophy shown in the large American cultural history
hali just described. Here, in a series of special rooms, reproduced from
various periods at the White House, are dresses actually worn by the
wife or the official hostess of each President of the United States. In
developing this series an effort was made to put in place furniture and
other objects actually used in the Executive Mansion in Philadelphia
before the White House was built and in the White House itself in
different periods. ‘This series is especially appropriate in this truly
national museum setting of the Smithsonian. For example, the room
in which the dresses of Martha Washington, Dolley Madison, and
Abigail Adams are exhibited contains objects that were owned and
used by President and Mrs. Washington. The visitor views this full
series of simulated White House rooms from a setting treated in a
dignified manner to suggest the White House itself. A large and
beautiful early Victorian chandelier hanging in the middle of the
visitors’ space does much to enhance this atmosphere. In small wall
cases are other objects related to the presidential families of America,
including fine examples of White House china of various periods,
jewelry, and decorations used by the Presidents and their wives
throughout the history of the country.

15. TEXTILE MACHINERY AND FIBERS

The Textile Machinery and Fiber Hall shows the evolution of man’s
efforts to make materials of plant and animal fibers from prehistoric
times to the present. It supplements well the First Ladies Hall
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

because it demonstrates how dress fabrics themselves and many other
textiles are created. It also demonstrates how the techniques of
textile production have changed through the years. The visitor
begins by looking at spindles recovered by archeologists from the
sites of early human habitations. He then sees the development of
more and more effective machinery for the manufacture of textiles.
Some notable “firsts” are shown, for example, the actual model made
by Whitney himself of the cotton gin and the first American spinning
frame constructed by Slater in Rhode Island in the 18th century.
Visitors may see a most rare and beautiful dress made years ago
entirely of silk from silkworms grown in America—the silk fibers
processed in America and then hand sewn in America. Modern
synthetic metallic and glass fibers and a wide variety of the textiles
and textile machines that have made possible the modern multiplicity
of industrial and decorative fabrics are included in the displays.
One of the notable exhibits of this hall is a Jacquard loom more than
a century and a half old which has been put in perfect working order
by Mr. Arthur Wullschleger, who gave it to the Institution. This
wonderful punch-card device weaves tapestries and patterned bro-
cades without requiring a laborious setting by human hands. The
student of the history of ideas looks at this machine with surprise
as he wonders why such a device which uses punch cards that are
very similar in size and shape to modern punch cards, was not applied
to other industrial programing tasks until many years after the
Jacquard loom had proved so well its practical usefulness. In this
textile hall are many typical forms of textiles arranged so that each
visitor may touch and feel them. In museums visitors expect to see
signs reading “Please Do Not Touch.” Here the Smithsonian has
reversed the injunction to “Please Touch.” Experts in textiles know
that only by feeling fabrics can the visitor actually gain a satis-
factory knowledge of different types of materials.

16. TEXTILE PROCESSING

Immediately above the textile hall just described is another new
hall devoted to the display of textiles used in human clothing, house-
hold decoration, and many industrial functions. This hall shows the
history of sewing machines and other devices used in processing the
textiles of civilization. Here one may also see illustrated the different
types of dyeing and printing that have been used through the years
for the embellishment of textiles and collections of great textile types
such as lace and embroidery. No one who thinks of our modern world
can fail to realize the role that the sewing machines of factory and
home have played in the emancipation of women from monotonous toil.
The collection of these interesting and effective machines at the
SECRETARY'S REPORT Tt

Smithsonian is one of the best in the world. The thoughtful visitor
who studies them learns not only a mechanical but also a sociological

lesson of importance.
17. POWER MACHINERY

In the Hall of Power Machinery the visitor sees how human beings
have progressed from the use of their own puny muscles to the great
power devices of our industrial age. Here original machines and
patent models illustrate the contribution of engineers and inventors
such as Stevens, Corliss, Otto, and Diesel. By diagrams and pictures,
waterwheels and windmills are shown. Included is a working model
of a classical heat engine that was used to open and close temple doors
in ancient Greece. Major displays demonstrate the invention and the
development of the steam engine portrayed by a series of working
models of great early steam engines which may be activated by each
visitor at the push of a button. Also on display are the beginnings
and indeed the full development of the internal combustion engine
and some of the early devices of Edison and others that show the rise
of the use of electricity as a power source. A permanent display of
the role of atomic energy in peacetime activity and defense is not yet
open to the public, but a number of temporary exhibits on this subject
have been presented from time to time by the Smithsonian.

18. FARM MACHINERY

In the Hall of Farm Machinery are shown a selection of the imple-
ments and devices which man has contrived to further his basic work
of securing food from the soil. The emphasis is upon the history of
American agricultural implements. Here, for example, the visitor
may trace the evolution of the plow as used by North American settlers
from Europe from the earliest days to the present. One interesting
phase of this development shows how President Thomas Jefferson
used his mathematical and scientific knowledge to make one of the first
real improvements in the plow in several thousand years. Also shown
are some of the “historic firsts” of the more complex agriculture
machinery which has made America famous throughout the world.
These exhibits show how the development and use of labor-saving
machinery for planting, cultivating, and harvesting crops helped solve
the problems of feeding America’s rapidly growing urban population
after the Civil War.

19. PRINTING ARTS

Another specialized group of industrial devices is shown in the new
Printing Arts Hall. The gradual development of pictorial and text
printing is illustrated in these displays. The famous printing press
used by Benjamin Franklin in London in 1726 is here. The emphasis
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

is upon the various processes by means of which printing blocks and
later movable type have been used down through the centuries, to-
gether with the techniques and tools involved. Here is also demon-
strated how black-and-white and color pictorial prints have been
made, especially in recent years. Examples are shown of the work of
some of the great printmakers of the world, including such outstand-
ing artists as Rembrandt and Diirer. In the study collections of this
division are examples of the work of many of the great printmakers
of the last six centuries.

20. MILITARY HISTORY

The Military History Hall is divided into two large sections, one
devoted to the United States Navy and Marine Corps, the other to the
United States Army. Elaborate exhibits of the development of avia-
tion, both civil and military, are shown in the National Air Museum to
which reference is made below. The Naval-Marine Corps Hall shows
the evolution, by the use of models and contemporary prints and charts,
of the Navy from the first commissioned vessel of 1775 to the atomic
submarine. Many portraits and memorabilia of the great Naval and
Marine leaders of our Nation are exhibited. One who studies the ex-
hibits of this hall can clearly see how the rise of the modern Navy is
related to the evolution of sources of power for naval vessels as
illustrated in the nearby Power Hall. Here also can be seen the ves-
sels and equipment that led to the emergence of the sea strength of
the United States from the small sailing craft of the colonies to the
present Navy of this country as a preeminent world power. The
change from wooden to steel warships and the development of modern
naval armaments are portrayed. Also shown are a few selected ex-
amples of objects recovered from the ocean floor by the use of the new
techniques of marine archeology.

The hall showing the rise of the American Army begins with ex-
amples of uniforms and equipment of colonial troops. At the entrance
is placed the actual field uniform worn by General Washington when
he was conducting his great campaigns of the War of Independence.
The visitor can also follow the evolution of American arms and equip-
ment down through the years. Attention is given to present-day
uniforms and the arms used in each of the great wars of the Nation.
Outstanding objects here include a beautiful bronze cannon brought
to the colonies by General Lafayette, uniforms of both Union and
Confederate officers of the Civil War, General Sheridan’s horse on
which he made his famous ride, a complete display of modern military
missiles, including those with atomic warheads, and a very complete
display of eoncan military heraldry including the battle ribbons
of all the Nation’s great Army regiments,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 13
21. NUMISMATICS

The Numismatic Hall, or Hall of Monetary History and Medallic
Art, can best be described as an amazingly complete world museum
of the history of money. Here are shown real examples of the first
coins ever minted in ancient Greece. Following the case that shows
these very early coins are others in which a visitor can see illustrated
the spread of coinage throughout the ancient Mediterranean world.
Also shown are means of exchange other than coins and samples of
the gold and other monetary forms of non-European nations. The
special feature is the great collection of colonial American and United
States coins and paper money for which the Smithsonian has long
been famous. The newly opened presentation of coins has a com-
pletely novel objective, for it is organized to teach the history and
geography of the world in relation to money. Many of the out-
standing gold pieces from the Institution’s great Straub collection
are on display, as are also coins of the recently presented Du Pont
collection cf Russian money. Many examples in the well-lighted
cases are from the United States mint collection, which is now part
of the over-all Smithsonian collection. Examples of almost every
coin ever struck in America are thus on view or in the study collec-
tions of the Institution. The visitor to this hall who comes to it with
intellectual curiosity will learn not only the fascinating story of
coinage, sculpture, design, and medallic art through the centuries,
but also much else that is important in the history of economics and
even of civilization itself.

22. HALL OF HEALTH

Years ago, national representatives of American medical organ-
izations urged the Smithsonian to establish a hall of health. For
many years the original hall was open, but gradually it became shabby
and outmoded. The modern Health Hall at the Smithsonian, on the
contrary, presents the basic anatomical and physiological processes
of human beings as they are known to modern science. The hall
shows something of the mechanisms by means of which electronics
and other technologies assist the physician in measuring and record-
ing the human heart beat, blood pressure, respiration, visual and
auditory acuity, and the like. Here the visitor can watch his own
heart beat on a cathode-ray tube by holding a receiver on his chest.
In this hall is located a fascinating transparent human figure which
by a series of lights and a concomitant electronically reproduced
lecture shows in a vivid and accurate way the principal organ systems
of the human frame and how they work.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961
23. HISTORY OF MEDICINE, DENTISTRY, AND PHARMACY

Immediately adjacent to the Hall of Health is the Hall of Medi-
cine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy, where the evolution of many of the
devices used by physicians, surgeons, dentists, and pharmacists down
through the years is shown. The development of such now common
aids to the physician’s practice as the stethoscope and blood-pressure
instrument is traced. Some of the more elaborate devices of modern
medicine and surgery such as the artificial heart and the X-ray ap-
paratus are also exhibited. Here too is displayed a complete medieval
pharmacy with an almost unique and very beautiful collection of early
pharmaceutical ceramics and glassware.

THE NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Of all the notable renovations of exhibit presentations at the
Smithsonian, none has been more outstanding than the recent trans-
formation of the small temporary Air and Space Building. The
National Air Museum, a special unit of the Institution, has in its
custody probably the world’s greatest collection of aircraft and
instruments and objects related to aviation. Nearly all the great
treasures of this museum are in storage. Some of its outstanding
possessions, such as the first Wright plane and the Lindbergh plane, are
on display in the Arts and Industries Building. The main museum
displays of aviation, however, are now shown in a building built as
a temporary test center for Liberty Motors during the First World
War. This galvanized-iron building on Independence Avenue behind
the original Smithsonian Building has been renovated in such a way
that the new exhibits installed in it can be moved without loss to a
new and permanent building when such a building is constructed.
Even the present “temporary” structure in its renovated form gives a
vivid demonstration of the public’s interest in aviation. This small,
far from commodious structure has now become one of the great
attractions of Washington. During the first 12 months after this
renovated building was opened, more than a million visitors sought
it out and studied its exhibits portraying man’s conquest of air and
space. Here are shown a few examples from the Smithsonian’s pos-
sibly unrivaled collection of kites. The basic principles of the aerial
navigation of birds as studied by the first aviation scientists are
displayed. In the center of the building are a few of the actual early
aircraft of peculiar significance in the history of aviation. Models of
hundreds of types of balloons and heavier-than-air craft are shown.
Here also are presented many early and important types of aircraft
engines. One of the notable exhibits is a collection of the great early
liquid-fuel rockets made by America’s, and indeed the world’s, pioneer
scientific student of devices for the exploration of space, the late

SECRETARY'S REPORT 15

Dr. Robert H. Goddard. The unique specimens of Goddard’s work
were given to the Smithsonian by Mrs. Goddard in tribute to the
early support that the Smithsonian gave to Dr. Goddard’s scientific
work. Other more modern space-flight specimens on display are
the first recovered American Space Flight nose cone, the Able-Baker
space flight apparatus, the first recovered orbiting satellite (Discoverer
XIII), and many other “firsts” of modern air-space science.

Immediately outside this temporary building are displayed not
models, but actual examples, of present-day rockets, including a
United States Army Jupiter C, a United States Navy Vanguard, a
Navy Polaris, and an Air Force Atlas.

In the paragraphs above reference has been made to the present
progress of the renovation of exhibits at the Smithsonian. Mention
could also be made to improvements and better lighting used in the
display of the outstanding collections of oriental objects and paintings
at the Smithsonian’s Freer Gallery of Art. The National Collection
of Fine Arts of the Smithsonian has also improved some of its tem-
porary galleries. Notable new installations, including rooms for the
decorative arts, have been opened at the National Gallery of Art, which
is a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution.

The summaries that have been presented in the immediately pre-
ceding pages have been given to bring the reader of this report up
to date in regard to one aspect of the work of the Smithsonian. This
is a report of progress. It suggests something of the accomplishments
of the past 8 years in transforming the formerly old and then sadly
outmoded museum presentations at the Smithsonian Institution into
modern effective and educational exhibits. During 1953, the year in
which this work began, 3,429,429 visitors came to the Smithsonian
buildings on the Mall. In the year covered by the present report, as
noted elsewhere, 7,103,474 came to these same buildings. There can
be no doubt that the renovations summarized here have met warm
public acceptance.

This whole great program of renovation has been possible only
because of the enthusiastic support that has been given to it by the
Board of Regents of the Institution, by the Congress, and by the
labors of the Smithsonian’s devoted and skillful staff of curators and
exhibit workers. Because of this work it is now beginning to be
possible for many millions of American citizens and for foreign visitors
also to see the great national treasures of the Smithsonian in an
orderly and also in an educationally significant way.

Other new halls are in the process of development and will be open
to the public as soon as the complex work of constructing them can
be completed by the small staff of the Institution. These other new
halls include a Hall of Dinosaurs, a Hall of Pleistocene Mammals, a
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Comparative Anatomy Hall, a large Hall of Botany and Wood, a Hall
of Ocean Life, a Hall of Reptiles and Fishes, a Hall of Man em-
phasizing the methods and accomplishments of physical anthropology,
and a Classical Archeology Hall, a Peoples of Asia and Africa Hall,
a Peoples of the Pacific Hall, a second North American Archeology
Hall, a second Geology Hall, and a Hall of Insects of the World.
Work on still other major displays of collections already in storage
at the Smithsonian is underway so that they may be presented in the
new Museum of History and Technology Building when this structure
is completed.

In introducing the present report, reference was made to the em-
phasis given by James Smithson and Joseph Henry to the twin ideas
of the diffusion and the increase of knowledge among men. Although
the museum displays described in the foregoing pages constitute an
important means of diffusing scientific and technologica] knowledge,
the Institution employs many other means to promote this diffusion.
One of these has traditionally been publications, and during the year
represented by this report the publication program was advanced by
97 titles issued under Smithsonian imprint; and nearly 775,000 copies
of Smithsonian publications were distributed, an increase of about 18
percent, over the previous year. Details of these publications are
given on later pages of the report. It may be pointed out that the
publications of the Smithsonian are known worldwide, and the “ex-
change publications” that come without charge to Washington in
response to Smithsonian publications from scientific research organi-
zations all over the world play an important role in maintaining in
America a complete library of scientific research. Such a collection
is basic in modern American life, not only in national defense but
also in the development of the cultural and industrial life of the
country.

It is difficult in brief compass to describe the research activities of
the Institution. The reader of this report, however, is especially
urged to note the pages that present the results of research studies
conducted during the current year by the Institution. The Astro-
physical Observatory of the Smithsonian, for example, is concerned
in the development of the science that is basic to a modern understand-
ing of astronomy and space. Only a few years ago research in astro-
physics seemed interesting but highly theoretical. Today the
significance of investigations in this area for our national defense and
welfare is recognized everywhere. Research investigations are also
conducted in almost all the other specialized divisions of the Institu-
tion as reported on later pages of this report. Special emphasis should
be given to the fact that it is the research activities of the members
of the Institution’s scientific staff that have established its worldwide
reputation and won for it academic distinction.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 17

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The membership of the Board of Regents remained unchanged
except for the new Vice President of the United States, the Honorable
Lyndon B. Johnson, who became an ex-oflicio member to succeed the
Honorable Richard M. Nixon on January 20, 1961. The roll of
Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows: Chief Justice
of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice President Lyndon
B. Johnson; members from the Senate: Clinton P. Anderson, J. Wil-
liam Fulbright, Leverett Saltonstall; members from the House of
Representatives: Frank T. Bow, Overton Brooks, Clarence Cannon;
citizen members: John Nicholas Brown, Arthur H. Compton, Robert
V. Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Caryl P. Haskins, and Jerome
C. Hunsaker.

The usual informal dinner meeting, preceding the annual meeting,
was held on January 12, 1961, in the main hall of the Smithsonian
Building amid exhibits showing the most recent developments in the
work of the Smithsonian bureaus. Col. Howard I. Chapelle spoke
on “Description of the American Watercraft Collection”; Dr. Charles
O. Handley, Jr., on “Mammal Survey of Panama”; Dr. T. Dale
Stewart on “Reconstructing Heads of Ancient Man”; Dr. Harold P.
Stern on “Hokusai in the Freer Gallery of Art”; and Dr. Fred L.
Whipple on “Dust in Space.”

The annual meeting was held on January 13, 1961. The Secretary
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Institu-
tion. The Chairman of the Executive and Permanent Committees of
the Board, Dr. Robert V. Fleming, gave the financial report for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1960.

The Regents participated in the ceremonies for the laying of the
cornerstone of the Museum of History and Technology on the after-
noon of May 19, 1961, and met at 5 o’clock that day in the Regents
Room for the spring meeting of the Board.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961
FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee
of the Board of Regents, page 221. Funds appropriated to the Insti-
tution for its rezular operations for the fiscal year ended June 80, 1961,
totaled $8,114,000. Besides this direct appropriation, the Institution
received funds by transfer from other Government agencies as follows:
From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park,
$1,804,000; from the National Park Service, Department of the In-
terior, for the River Basin Surveys, $123,895.

VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings on the Mall reached
a total of 7,103,474, an all-time high and 608,844 more than the pre-
vious year. April 1961 was the month of largest attendance, with
1,082,827; August 1960 second, with 1,051,733; May 1961 third, with
990,230. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance records for the
five buildings; table 2, groups of school children. These figures,
when added to the 1,032,340 recorded at the National Gallery of Art
bring the year’s total number of visitors at the Institution buildings
on the Mall to 8,135,814.

TaBiLe 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended
June 80, 1961

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)

Smithsonian Arts and Natural Air and Freer
Year and month Building Industries History Space Building Total
Building Building Building

1860
Ly a ee 151, 286 385, 718 269, 451 1135, 672 | 16, 021 958, 148
ANT QUStoe es oe oe 178, 859 365, 810 316, 074 |171, 414 | 19, 576 |1, 051, 733
September____- 55, 579 153, 369 103, 240°) 58,073 }).12; 001 382, 272
October______- 50, 835 130, 833 112, 4381 | 47, 384 8, 079 349, 562
November -_-_- 50, 864 110, 213 117, 335 | 49, 581 8, 088 336, 081
December-_--- 22, 786 58, 899 53, 439 | 23, 703 4, 608 163, 435

1961
January __._.. 34, 523 67, 348 73, 588 | 25, 023 5, 419 205, 901
February - ---- 24, 812 70, 596 59, 541 | 29, 469 4, 428 188, 846
Marcho. 223222 57, 184 157, 668 135, 663 | 54, 715 8, 645 413, 875
/:\voyerd Lop aes ees 154, 793 483, 752 283, 071 |144, 790 | 16, 421 |1, 082, 827
Maya 5.7 2 116, 978 457, 832 286, 067 |115, 758 | 13, 595 990, 230
JUNG 2 aes Bee 126, 027 470, 333 238, 073 |132, 276 | 13, 855 980, 564

otal oe 5.3 1, 024, 526 |2, 912, 371 |2, 047, 973 |987, 858 |130, 746 |7, 103, 474

SECRETARY’S REPORT

ne

TABLE 2.—Groups of school children visiting the Smithsonian Institution during the
year ended June 30, 1961

Year and month

Number of
children

Number of

groups

Year and month

1961

January o22 ==
February -.-_---~-
Marche aia ee

‘otal aes

Number of
children

44, 650

363, 073

Number of
groups
Report on the United States
National Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the U.S. National Museum for the fiscal year

ended June 30, 1961:
COLLECTIONS

During the year 971,150 specimens were added to the national col-
lections and distributed among the eight departments as follows:
Anthropology, 19,764; zoology, 369,701; botany, 103,160; geology,
229,676; science and technology, 4,231; arts and manufactures, 5,521;
civil history, 237,323; and armed forces history, 1,774. The total
number is less than half as many as recorded last year, when an extraor-
dinary number of postage stamps, approaching a million and a half,
was accessioned. Most of this year’s accessions were acquired as gifts
from individuals or as transfers from Government departments and
agencies. ‘The complete report on the Museum, published as a sep-
arate document, includes a detailed list of the year’s acquisitions, of
which the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries
in all departments now total 54,963,805.

Anthropology.—Through an arrangement with Dr. Ralph S.
Solecki, of Columbia University, whereby the Smithsonian Institution
sponsored his 1957 expedition to Iraq, the division of archeology re-
ceived 8,770 artifacts from Shanidar cave and neighboring sites. In
addition to a few specimens from the historic and protohistoric cul-
tural periods, the representation is mainly from the proto-Neolithic
and the Mousterian, the whole indicating a time span of around 65,000
years. The division also received, by transfer from the River Basin
Surveys, 5,153 artifacts collected at numerous prehistoric sites in
South Dakota and Wyoming. Mrs. Virginia M. Pollak added to her
earlier generous donations a wooden ibis from the Ptolemaic-Roman
period of Egypt.

Of special interest among the new accessions in the division of
ethnology are two rare Chinese scrolls written in the Chinese and
Manchurian languages and representing awards in the years 1753 and
1868 for loyal services to the Chinese Government, donated by Dr.
David C. Graham, honorary research associate in biology. A late
19th century Chinese four-panel lacquer screen was received from the
estate of John T. Owens. The decoration thereon, showing four

20
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ot

birds in a natural setting, has been executed by inlaying mother-of-
pearl, rose quartz, white and stained ivory, and semiprecious stones.
A group of 54 ethnological specimens of Eskimo manufacture, col-
lected in Alaska in 1908, was presented by Dr. F. F. Fellows, West
Linn, Oreg. A representative collection of 104 smoking pipes, mainly
from the Near East, India, China, and Japan, was given by Dr. Leo
Stoor, of Cleveland. A good collection of 84 Micronesian objects
was obtained in exchange from John H. Brandt, of New York City.
Among the rare specimens in this group is a type of necklace from
Yap no longer obtainable from the natives.

The division of physical anthropology added to its collection of
American Negro skeletal remains 14 skulls and a few miscellaneous
bones recovered by the District of Columbia coroner, Dr. A. Ma-
gruder MacDonald, when an abandoned cemetery near the Calvert
Street bridge in Washington was exposed in the course of building
operations. The Zoller Laboratory of Dental Anthropology of the
University of Chicago presented the division with 11 standard models
for classifying crown characters of human deciduous teeth. The mod-
els, accompanied by an explanatory manual, were prepared by Dr.
Kazuro Hanihara, of Sapporo Medical College, Japan, and are based
on a series of 600 subjects representing various racial groups.

Zoology.—The division of mammals acquired a total of 4,076 speci-
mens, comprising 42 accessions. Dr. Robert E. Kuntz forwarded
nearly 1,000 specimens from Formosa and 400 from North Borneo,
collected by field parties of U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2.
Bernard R. Feinstein, of the Museum staff, working in cooperation
with the Army Medical Research and Development Command and
the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, sent 600 mammals from South Viet-
nam. Dr. Robert Traub forwarded 121 additional specimens col-
lected by the U.S. Army Medical Research Unit. Capt. Vernon J.
Tipton sent 273 mammals collected in Panama by the Army Preven-
tive Medicine Division. E. V. Komarek presented 83 mammals,
mostly carnivores, from the southeastern States, as well as an addi-
tional lot of 58 small mammals from the Southwest; Russell E. Mum-
ford and Ralph D. Kirkpatrick each sent additional mammals from
Indiana; and the Virginia State Department of Health, through
J. T. Banks and T. M. Mullman, presented 44 mammals collected in
the course of epidemiological surveys.

The same sources that were responsible for several of the mammal
collections referred to above contributed some important accessions
for the division of birds. From the lowlands of North Borneo, a
series of 512 bird skins was received from the U.S. Naval Medical
Research Unit No.2. A total of 565 bird skins, 6 alcoholic specimens,
and 20 skeletons from South Vietnam resulted from the activities spon-
sored by the Bernice P. Bishop Museum and the Army Medical
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Research and Development Command. Received by transfer from
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service were 1,411 bird skins and 6 al-
coholic specimens from Formosa.

Noteworthy collections received in the division of reptiles and
amphibians include 19 salamanders from Alabama, donated by Leslie
Hubricht. <A fine series of Virginia amphibians, collected by the late
Walter B. Newman, was received as a gift from his mother, Mrs.
Helen B. Newman. By transfer from the U.S. Army Medical Re-
search Unit, through Lt. Col. H. J. Baker, came 29 snakes, mostly
from Selangor, an area from which the Museum has had few speci-
mens. <A series of 28 Venezuelan reptiles and amphibians collected
for the Museum by Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr., and D. L. Rhymer contains
some frogs that are valuable for comparison with Colombian material
now being studied. Another valuable addition to the amphibian
group from Thailand are 39 specimens collected in South Vietnam
by Bernard R. Feinstein.

The division of fishes accessioned a large collection consisting of
2,702 specimens from the Fourth Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Ex-
pedition. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, through Harvey R.
Bullis, Jr., and Daniel M. Cohen, contributed another large important
collection, totaling 1,114 fishes. Dr. Eugenie Clark, of the Cape Haze
Marine Laboratory of Florida, and Dr. H. Steinitz, of the Hebrew
University of Jerusalem, donated 778 marine fishes collected in the
Red Sea by Dr. Clark; these specimens are very valuable because the
Red Sea area is the type locality of numerous kinds of fishes, some of
which are endemic. Dr. Hurst Shoemaker, of the American Univer-
sity of Beirut, donated 361 fishes from Lebanon. Among the valuable
collections received for identification were 453 Formosan fishes
through Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit
No. 2, and 728 specimens from Africa and South America from Dr.
Herbert R. Axelrod, of ‘Tropical Fish Hobbyist Publications, Jersey
City.

A very valuable accession acquired by the division of insects is the
John C. Lutz collection of Hemiptera, consisting of 87,371 specimens.
Particularly rich in Neotropical species, this assemblage contains 668
types of various kinds, including holotypes of 15 species. Another
very important accession is the N. Baranov collection of Palaearctic
tachnid flies, consisting of 4,611 specimens representing 305 genera,
68 of which are new to the collections, and 812 species, of which 499
were not previously available for study inthe Museum. Other notable
contributions include: 3,306 miscellaneous specimens from North and
South America, donated by Dr. Charles P. Alexander; 2,915 Ha-
waiian insects presented by A. J. Ford, of Honolulu; 2,938 miscella-
neous specimens from Pakistan, contributed by Dr. J. Maldonado
Capriles; 2,127 Lepidoptera from Wisconsin given by William E.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 23

Sieker; 7,848 miscellaneous insects from various parts of the world
given by N. L. H. Krauss; and 1,128 specimens of Hymenoptera do-
nated by Dr. Karl V. Krombein.

Contributing materially to another record-breaking year for acces-
sions in the division of marine invertebrates were 54,480 amphipod
crustaceans, including 15 type specimens, received from the Scripps
Institution of Oceanography, University of California. From the
Universitetets Zoologiske Museum, Copenhagen, through Dr. H.
Volsge, were received 9 deep-sea invertebrates from the world-re-
nowned Danish Deepsea Expedition of the Galathea, including para-
types of unusual holothurians, starfishes, polychaete worms, and sea
anemones. ‘The Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, The
Netherlands, through Dr. L. B. Holthuis, donated 402 crustaceans,
including two scyllarid lobsters and an authoritatively identified set
of European isopods. <A collection of 5,528 miscellaneous Antarctic
invertebrates from Operation Deep Freeze IV was received from
Stanford University, through Dr. Donald E. Wohlschlag. Another
large series of 5,256 miscellaneous marine invertebrates was collected
for the Museum in Bermuda by Mrs. LaNelle W. Peterson.

The most important accession in the division of mollusks consisted
of 12,200 specimens collected at Jaluit Atoll, in the southern Marshall
Islands, by Dr. Harald A. Rehder. The Fourth Smithsonian-Bredin
Caribbean Expedition added 6,000 mollusks from Yucatin. Dr.
Wendell P. ‘Woodring collected 485 specimens of marine mollusks on
the Atlantic coast of Panama. From the Institute of Oceanology of
the Academy of Sciences of the USSR, through Dr. E. A. Filatova,
came 607 specimens of fresh-water mollusks from the USSR.

Botany.—One of the most important accessions in the department
was the Cladonia collection of the late Alexander W. Evans, compris-
ing 39,204 specimens, received in exchange from the Osborn Botani-
cal Laboratory of Yale University. Unusually fine specimens of
Rhododendron and Primula, numbering 2,895, collected in Asia by
George Forest, were received in exchange from the Royal Botanic
Garden, Edinburgh, Scotland. Others, also in exchange, were: 7,786
specimens of Asia and South America, mostly significant historical
collections, from the Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris;
1,287 plants of Indonesia from the Herbarium Bogoriense; and 527
photographs of plants in the Philip Miller Herbarium from the
Bailey Hortorium, Ithaca, N.Y.

The American Musuem of Natural History forwarded 15,780 speci-
mens collected by L. J. Brass on the Sixth Archbold Expedition to
New Guinea. The University of California sent 497 specimens of
South American plants collected by W. Eyerdam on the Sixth Botani-
eal Garden Expedition to the Andes, in return for identifications.

625325623
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Dr. Mason E. Hale and Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom collected 3,841
specimens in Mexico, consisting mostly of lichens, and Dr. John E.
Ebinger collected 5,086 specimens in Panama, primarily on Barro
Colorado Island. There were transferred from the U.S. Geological
Survey, Department of the Interior, 2,650 Alaskan plants collected
by Lloyd Spetzman.

The division of woods received in exchange from the Yale School
of Forestry 474 wood samples collected by Dr. John J. Wurdack and
L. S. Adderley in Venezuela; 966 slides of Malayan woods from the
Forest Research Institute, Kepong, Selangor, Malaya, through P. K.
Balan Menon; 314 wood samples with voucher herbarium specimens
collected in Sarawak, from the University of Oxford, England, and
1,784 microscope slides of pollen from the Rancho Santa Ana Botanic
Garden. Dr. William L. Stern presented 609 samples of wood he
collected in Panama.

Geology—Among the noteworthy gifts received in the division of
mineralogy and petrology are a very fine cubic crystal of diamond,
weighing 82.5 carats, from Sierra Leone, and a three-quarter carat
diamond crystal in matrix from the Bulfontein Mine, South Africa,
both presented by Dorus Van Itallie; a large group of wulfenite crys-
tals from the Glove Mine, near Amado, Ariz., and a gem-quality twin
erystal of chrysoberyl from Minas Gerais, Brazil, both donated by
Bernard T. Rocca, Sr.

Important additions to the mineral collection received in exchange
are becquerelite and fourmarierite from Republic of the Congo (Leo-
poldville) ; raspite, Australia; cronstedtite, Hungary; and benitoite,
California. Newly described species received in exchange are schoder-
ite and metaschoderite, Nevada; masuyite and lueskite, Republic of the
Congo (Leopoldville); yavapaite, Arizona; and wolsendorfite,
Germany.

The Roebling collection was increased by 1,625 specimens by pur-
chase from the Roebling fund or by exchange. Among the most im-
portant of these are a collection of 40 specimens of wulfenite, each of
exceptional quality, from Arizona; several adularia crystals from
Switzerland; a well-formed cube of uraninite four inches on an edge,
from Morogoro, Tanganyika; and a very fine large gadolinite crystal
from southern Norway. Several specimens of outstanding quality
were added to the Canfield collection by purchase. These include a
90-carat peridot crystal from Zebirget, Egypt; a very large sphene
erystal from Baja California; bournonite, England; and apatite,
Italy.

Gems obtained for the Isaac Lea collection by purchase from the
Chamberlain fund include a pink scapolite from Burma weighing
12.33 carats; a blue topaz from Texas weighing 146.35 carats; a
SECRETARY’S REPORT 25

peridot from Arizona weighing 22.9 carats; and a 9.53 carat yellow
tourmaline from Brazil.

During the past year the meteorite collection continued its growth.
Seven meteorites new to the collection were obtained: Abee, Canada;
Bruderheim, Canada; Kandahar, Afghanistan; Treysa, Germany;
Utzenstorf, Switzerland; Aroos, Russia; and Moab, United States.

The division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany acquired
some important fossil collections. The famous Greene collection, com-
prising 110,000 specimens and consisting mostly of Devonian corals,
was given by the American Museum of Natural History. A bequest
was received from the estate of Mrs. Ruby F. Renfro of approximately
50,000 specimens of Pennsylvanian, Permian, and Cretaceous fossils
of north-central Texas and a small collection from Europe. Other
gifts include 1,000 Devonian invertebrate fossils from the upper Dun-
dee limestone and the Silica shale, Michigan and Ohio, donated by
Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, 36 fossil crabs from the Miocene of Virginia,
from George Webb; and 167 smaller Foraminifera from the Missis-
sippian of southern Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Ohio, pre-
sented by Dr. J. E. Conkin.

Fieldwork made possible from funds of the Walcott bequest yielded
600 echinoids from the Paleocene, collected in Georgia by Dr. Porter
M. Kier in collaboration with Dr. Druid Wilson of the U.S. Geological
Survey ; 2,500 Upper Cretaceous, Paleocene, and Eocene invertebrate
fossils collected in Maryland by Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, with Dr.
Norman F. Sohl and Dr. Harlan R. Bergquist of the U.S. Geological
Survey; and 1,000 Pennsylvanian fossils collected in Texas by Dr.
G. Arthur Cooper and Dr. Richard E. Grant.

The division of vertebrate paleontology received an outstanding ac-
cession of about 202 specimens representing fish, amphibians, and
reptiles from various Permian formations in Texas and Kansas. These
specimens were collected by Dr. Nicholas Hotton III and John E.
Gassaway, through funds provided by the Walcott bequest. Particu-
lar mention is made of a nearly complete and articulated skeleton of
the small predaceous amphibian Acroplous vorax taken from the Per-
mian Speiser formation of Kansas, and a large part of a skeleton
of the primitive cotylosaurian reptile ZLabidosaurus sp., from the
Permian Arroyo formation of Texas. The jaws, part of the skull,
and several vertebrae of a very large baleen whale were collected
from the Miocene Yorktown formation near Hampton, Va., by Dr.
Nicholas Hotton III, Kurt F. Hauschildt, and Dr. Frank C. Whit-
more, Jr. Dr. Hotton, assisted by William E. Moran, a former em-
ployee, also secured a partial skeleton, including the greater part of
a skull, of a rare embolomerous amphibian from the Mauch Chunk
formation of Mississippian age.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Science and technology—Two astrolabes of unusual interest were
acquired by the division of physical sciences. Through the generosity
of Lessing J. Rosenwald a very fine medieval English instrument
was received, having zoomorphic star pointers as a notable feature.
Although undated and unsigned, it is dated by the calendar scale about
1325. A second astrolabe received this year is an Hispano-Moorish
instrument by Muhammad ibn-Sahli. This specimen exhibits a mix-
ture of Islamic, Christian, and Jewish characteristics in its decoration.

Two major refrigerating machines for exhibit in the new hall of
power machinery were received this year: the first commercially suc-
cessful centrifugal refrigeration compressor from Carrier Corpora-
tion, which was generously restored by the Frick Company, and a
typical steam-driven reciprocating ammonia compressor from Clifton
Springs Sanitarium and Clinic.

About 3,000 large original tracings, on cloth, of heavy mining ma-
chinery for the period 1875-1902 were received from Calumet and
Hecla, Inc. This valuable collection representing an important part
of the creative work of Erasmus D. Leavitt (1836-1916), a widely
known and highly honored mechanical engineer, was located by Robert
M. Vogel, associate curator. The archival collections of the division
have grown, largely through the efforts of Mr. Vogel, to a major
repository of source materials in the history of mechanical and civil
engineering.

Among the outstanding gifts in the section of marine transporta-
tion is a model of the brigantine sloop Ferret. This Admiralty model
is a gift of Lansdell K. Christie. The Grace Line, Inc., presented a
model of the passenger liner Santa Paula. In the section of land
transportation a colonial chaise, including funds for its restoration,
was received from Stewart Huston. A collection of fire-fighting ap-
paratus was donated by Dr. Karl B. Bretzfelder. The Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Co. gave a collection of glass plate negatives and car
drawings, through L. W. Sagle.

The division of electricity has been particularly fortunate in ob-
taining the Palmer collection of early electrical equipment from
Princeton University. The collection is an important one and pro-
vided most of the illustrations in M. Maclaren’s Rise of the Electrical
Industry during the 19th Century. It was exceptionally rich in
examples of laboratory meters, telephonic apparatus, power switch-
gear, and incandescent lamps. Two other large groups of specimens
were also acquired : one from Brown University, consisting primarily
of motors and generators, together with some interesting wireless
telegraph equipment, and one from the Weston Instrument Company,
composed of early commercial meters.

The acquisition of a David Rittenhouse half-size tall clock, which
has an astronomical type dial, enhanced the collection of timekeeping
SECRETARY’S REPORT ard

instruments. This clock is one of Rittenhouse’s earlier works, and
it is probably the product of his own hands. Several other outstand-
ing clocks were also obtained, including one by Gideon Roberts, who
introduced mass-produced wooden clocks.

Among the accessions in medical sciences is a significant collection
of dental instruments, received from the S. S. White Dental Manu-
facturing Company. The New England Hospital for Women and
Children Nurses Alumnae Association donated an early uniform worn
by Linda Richards and other personal memorabilia, including a
Tolles microscope. Miss Richards was the first woman to receive a
diploma from any American training school for nurses. A number
of medals, diplomas, and other memorabilia have been received from
the estate of Abraham Flexner, in accordance with his bequest.

Arts and manufactures —A. significant acquisition in the division
of textiles is a collection of over 100 19th-century sewing machines
presented by the Singer Manufacturing Company, through Bogart F.
Thompson. Added to the fine group already accumulated, these give
the Museum the world’s leading historical collection of sewing ma-
chines. An outstanding collection of over 200 sewing birds, hemming
clamps, and related needlework accessories was donated by Miss
Mabel Whiteley. Of special interest also is the receipt of a collection
of lace and embroidery from Mrs. Herbert Arthur May. The laces
include examples of Chantilly, Brussels, Maltese, and Venetian
needlepoint.

Several interesting items were acquired by the division of ceramics
and glass. A rare Castleford urn with painted decorations was pre-
sented by Mrs. George H. Myers. Mrs. William A. Sutherland do-
nated 28 pieces of porcelain, including an English Lowestoft teapot,
a China trade porcelain fruit basket, Sevres tea set, and a Liverpool
coffee pot, all of the 18th century. R. Whornton Wilson gave a
unique piece of Americana, consisting of an Oriental Lowestoft cider
jug and cover, with painted decorations including the inscription
“Jefferson and Liberty,” surmounted by an American eagle and 17
stars.

A fine group of chiaroscuro woodcuts was acquired by the division
of graphic arts. The group included two examples by the important
early 16th-century pioneer, Antonio da Trento, St. Matthew and The
Martyrdom of St. Paul and St. Peter; The Descent from the Cross,
by Ugo da Carpi, founder of the chiaroscuro process in Italy; work
by the most important 17th-century practitioners include Aeneas Car-
rying Anchises by Ludolph Businck; Death of Lucretia by Paulus
Moreelse; and Sibyll with Books and Virgin with Jesus and John by
Bartolomeo Coriolano. The 18th century is represented by John
Baptist Jackson’s Pieta and the outline block for his The Virgin in
the Clouds and Sia Saints. A Lechrome National Photocolor One-
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Shot Color Camera was presented to the section of photography by
Ralph E. Wareham. This type of camera simultaneously exposes a
complete set of color separation negatives which are used to produce
color prints. Technicolor Corporation donated a display of motion-
picture film strips explaining their Technirama process of
cinematography.

The division of manufactures and heavy industries acquired several
significant specimens. In the section of petroleum, Universal Oil
Products Company and Esso Standard Oil Company, in association
with the M. W. Kellogg Company, prepared models and flow charts
illustrative of phases in the development of petroleum refining. Wil-
lam C. Cleveland, consultant in the section of general manufacturing,
has been successful in locating more than 100 machines typical of the
development of the metalworking trades. These will provide an ex-
cellent basis for a treatment of the history of fasteners of all kinds.
A number of important pieces of equipment have been transferred
by nuclear physics laboratories at Argonne, Chicago, and Washing-
ton, D.C.

Civil history—President John F. Kennedy gave the Smithsonian
Institution a magnificent volume, the Atlas Nouveau, compiled by
Nicolas Sanson and published in 1692. The richly illustrated atlas,
intended for the instruction of the Dauphin of France, is bound in
handsome contemporary red leather and gilt binding.

Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower donated a Portuguese
standing lamp in silver, a carved teakwood elephant and rider pre-
sented to him by His Majesty Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, and
an elaborately carved scene from the Mahabharata in ivory and
sandalwood, presented to him by the President of India. Mr. Eisen-
hower also gave the twin microphones over which his voice was fre-
quently carried during his 50,000-mile campaign of 1952.

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented a pink embroidered organdy
dress given her by Mrs. Carlos P. Garcia, wife of the President of the
Philippines. Ralph E. Becker continued his donations of political
campaign paraphernalia of the past. Significant among the gifts is a
preserve crock inscribed “25,000 Majority General Jackson”—a protest
against the fact that in the election of 1824 General Jackson rolled up
a majority of greater than 25,000 popular votes over his nearest rival,
John Quincy Adams. He lost the election, however; since no candidate
had a majority of the total vote, the House of Representatives chose
Mr. Adams from the three candidates having the highest number of
electoral votes.

Noteworthy among accessions received in the division of philately
and postal history is a specialized collection of early Peru donated
by Bernard Peyton, consisting of more than 13,000 stamps and covers
in 16 albums. The material portrays the postal history of Peru from
SECRETARY'S REPORT 29

the period of Royal Spanish Service to the end of the 19th century.
Essays, proofs, and color trials augment the approved stamps, and
each issue is thoroughly explored by means of cancellations. One
album presents the Pacific Steam Navigation Company’s stamps and
essays including use on covers. The provisional stamps made neces-
sary by the occupation of Chilean forces in 1879-82 are of great his-
torical value. George L. Lee presented a collection of Egyptian
stamps from the Royal Imperforata Printings prepared for Kings
Fuad and Farouk. This unusual material was sold by the present
Egyptian Government in 1954. Mr. Lee also gave a used copy of
the 5-cent Canadian St. Lawrence Seaway stamp with inverted center.
This modern printing error, of which only slightly more than 100 are
known, including 11 used copies, was discovered in 1959 not long after
date of issuance. Widespread interest and limited supply have caused
a sharp appreciation for this variety.

A most important single addition to the numismatic collections
was received from Cornelius Van Schaak Roosevelt, grandson of
President Theodore Roosevelt, who donated a high-relief experimental
$20 gold piece dated 1907, owned originally by President Roosevelt.
This exceedingly rare and significant piece is one of the first strikings
of high-relief $20 gold pieces designed by the American sculptor
Augustus Saint-Gaudens at the President’s request. It marks a unique
venture in modern monetary history, a venture which found the Presi-
dent of the United States and a famous sculptor working together
and devoting much of their time and energy to the task of producing
a new coin design of real artistic merit. Willis du Pont donated a
very significant additional group of Russian coins and medals of the
latter part of the 18th century. Mrs. Louise Merrick Schermerhorn
presented a group of rare gold certificates including a group of three
notes dated 1864, 1866, and 1877, typifying the earliest issues of United
States gold certificates. To the section of medallic art were added, as
a gift from Norman Stack, two rare Washington medals made in 1790
by Manly and in 1805 by Eccleston. The Medallic Art Company of
New York donated an interesting group of models and dies used for
the striking of the J. F. Kennedy Inaugural Medal, as well as a process
set of medals showing the various steps in the striking and finishing
of the medal.

Armed Forces history.——The division of military history received
a unique Revolutionary War militia color carried at the Battles of
Trenton and Germantown, presented by Francis W. Headman in
memory of his son, Francis W. Headman, Jr. A rare Medal of
Honor, awarded for gallantry in the siege of Pekin, 1900, was pre-
sented by Lt. Col. Calvin P. Titus, the recipient. Fieldwork at Sackets
Harbor, N.Y., Fort Adams, Miss., and at underwater sites in Bermuda
yielded significant historical materials for the collections. President
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

John F. Kennedy donated an ancient Greek amphora recovered from
the Mediterranean Sea.

Outstanding among the objects received during the year in the
division of naval history were collections of German and Japanese
ordnance and electronic equipment of World War II, Japanese uni-
forms, and uniform items of Fleet Admiral Nimitz and Vice Admiral
Lockwood. Two items associated with Pearl Harbor were received.
A unique monogrammed dish for the Confederate Navy was added to
the Civil War collections.

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK

Dr. T. Dale Stewart, head curator of anthropology, continued his
research in Iraq and during the summer participated in the 1960
Shanidar Expedition sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution
and Columbia University. This research extends the collaboration
between Dr. Stewart and Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, formerly on the staff
of the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Stewart’s participation in this
fourth Shanidar expedition was based on the consideration that the
skull of No. 2 had been recovered last season but that the rest of the
skeleton had been left in situ. After working 6 weeks on this skull in
Baghdad, Dr. Stewart went to Shanidar to join Dr. and Mrs. Solecki.
They spent 2 weeks uncovering the skeleton of No. 2, which unfortu-
nately proved to be incomplete, consisting only of a few vertebrae and
two leg bones. However, at the end of this period more parts of No. 3
were found and almost immediately three new skeletons. When Dr.
Stewart left Shanidar in mid-August he was able to take back to
Baghdad parts of five Neanderthal skeletons. This continuing ex-
ploration, therefore, is turning out to be extremely profitable and
future studies of this Neanderthal material may be expected to be of
considerable significance.

In the summer of 1960 an interesting discovery was made near
Littleton, Colo., of a late Pleistocene bone bed with possible human
associations. Because this discovery was of interest both to vertebrate
paleontologists and to archeologists, Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of
archeology, and Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontol-
ogy, collaborated in outlining a project to the National Science
Foundation which has resulted in a grant to make possible a thorough
exploration of the Colorado site. To begin this work, in June 1961, Dr.
Wedel spent about 2 weeks at the site together with George S. Metcalf,
museum aide. The first stages of this digging uncovered some human
artifacts and indicated that the subsequent work might be of unusual
interest.

Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator of archeology, and his wife,
Dr. Betty J. Meggers, honorary research associate, during the summer
of 1960 made a comparative study of certain south American collec-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 31

tions in various European museums. During this period they also
participated in the 34th International Congress of Americanists in
Vienna and the 6th International Congress of Anthropological and
Ethnological Sciences in Paris. In August they engaged in fieldwork
in southern France, examining the famous Paleolithic sites that are
important to archeologists.

Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator of ethnology, spent most
of the year in ethnological fieldwork and in collecting among the
Herero of South West Africa and Bechuanaland. Dr. Gibson returned
by way of Egypt and other North African countries in order to obtain
material for exhibits in the planning state in a new hall of Asiatic,
Pacific, and African ethnology. Since this fieldwork was still in
progress at the end of the fiscal year, a more complete account of it
will be left for the next annual report.

For a period of about 314 months, Dr. Eugene I. Knez, associate
‘curator of ethnology, visited numerous museums and conducted field-
work in various European countries, Pakistan, India, Burma, and
other countries of southeastern Asia, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea,
and Japan to obtain, through local scientists and officials, contempo-
rary ethnological materials for use in a renovated exhibit hall now
being prepared in the Museum of Natural History. The work proved
to be extremely successful, both in terms of ethnological materials
acquired for the exhibit program and personal contacts made with
local scientists and scholars.

In the spring of 1960, Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of
mammals, participated in the Smithsonian-Collins expedition to
Libya, organized and led by Robert L. Pomeroy and Alan C. Collins.
The party traveled overland from Benghazi by way of Cufra Oasis
to Faya in northern Tchad, investigating the little-known Tibesti
Mountains on the Libyan-Tchad frontier, and returned to the Medi-
terranean coast by way of Sebha Oasis. In all, they traveled about
5,000 miles, and Dr. Setzer obtained a valuable collection of mammals.
En route to join the expedition, he spent a brief period at the British
Museum (Natural History) in London, comparing type specimens of
various European and African mammals.

Toward the end of the year Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate
curator of mammals, and D. I. Rhymer, office of exhibits, collected
in the higher parts of the Clinch Mountains, near Saltville, Va. This
exploration was a part of Dr. Handley’s continuing studies of mam-
mals of the southeastern United States. The 250 forest mammals
obtained complement the large collection of meadow mammals taken
in the same region in 1957 by Dr. Handley and associates.

Field studies in the survey of the variation and distribution of the
birds of the Isthmus of Panamé under Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
honorary research associate and retired Secretary of the Smithsonian
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Institution, were continued from January through March. The work
began with 10 days devoted mainly to water birds on the lower Rio
Chagres at Juan Mina. Following this Dr. Wetmore accompanied a
party from the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory for ‘Tropical Medicine
to eastern Darién. ‘Through cooperation of the air arm of the U.S.
Army, the men with their equipment were transferred by helicopter
from the town of E] Real, on the lower Rio Tuira, to Cerro Pirre,
where camp was established on the headwaters of the Rio Seteganti
about 10 kilometers from the Colombian boundary. Birds collected
for study skins served also as a source of blood samples to be checked
for disease, and of ectoparasites, particularly mites, by other members
of the party. ‘The area is one of special interest as the mountain is
isolated and has a number of species of South American affinity little
known in Panama.

Most of the remainder of the time available this year was given to
studies in the upper basin of the Rio Chagres. In mid-February
Dr. and Mrs. Wetmore, with two assistants from the Gorgas Labora-
tory, crossed to the head of Madden Lake by dugout canoe and
continued up the Rio Boquerén to the mouth of the Quebrada Peluca
near the base of Cerro Bruja. Through the kindness of W. H.
Esslinger, chief hydrographer, Meteorological and Hydrographic
Branch of the Canal Zone, quarters were available here, and also
later at Candelaria, in small buildings housing stream gauge equip-
ment for record of runoff waters that feed Madden Lake. At the end
of 2 weeks the party moved to the Rio Pequeni for further studies.
Both areas were still heavily forested, with few human inhabitants
and fewer trails. Travel was mainly by walking and wading along
the beds of streams. Although this was the dry season, rain fell
daily. The specimens and notes obtained are especially valuable since
this is an intermediate area between the eastern and western sections
of the isthmus that has been little known from the standpoint of its
biology. The men from the Gorgas Laboratory prepared a consider-
able series of blood smears and also made collections of biting insects
of interest as possible carriers of disease. The season closed with a
week at La Jagua in the savanna region east of Pacora.

The division of birds lent the services of Bernard R. Feinstein,
museum aide, to the U.S. Army Medical Research and Development
Command for much of the year. Mr. Feinstein has been spending
the year in South Vietnam collecting with an expedition that is
partially sponsored by the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, of Honolulu.

In June, William D. Field, associate curator of insects, spent 2
weeks in field research in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park
and other areas of Georgia and South Carolina. Among many valu-
able additions he made to the national collection of butterflies during
the trip, special mention should be made of the very rare species
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

Strymon kingi and Megathymus harrisi, both of which are new to
the Museum’s collections.

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., associate curator of insects, spent two
periods collecting Trichoptera and related groups for the Museum.
In May he obtained collections of such material in the area of New
York State near Cornell University in connection with a trip to
study museum collections. Early in June he made extensive collec-
tions in the vicinity of Highlands, N.C., and other areas of the Great
Smoky Mountains and the Blue Ridge. The collections obtained at
these localities contained many species and at least two genera not
previously in the national collections.

In September Dr. Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator of marine
invertebrates, accompanied by Anthony Di Stefano, of the office of
exhibits, made a collecting trip to Florida to obtain material and
notes for the coral shore exhibit of the Hall of Oceanic Life. Their
work was greatly facilitated by the cooperation of the staff of the
Marine Laboratory of the University of Miami. Soldier Key, lying
5 miles south of Cape Florida on the south end of Biscayne Key,
provided a good representation of the flora and fauna of the coral
shore area. The field party made complete photographic notes on
the shoreline and shore vegetation, as well as taking a series of under-
water photographs. The specimens were taken from the upper, lower,
and reef flat platforms, including marine animals, algae, and other
plants. Many plaster casts were made in the field and all material
obtained was returned to Washington, where it will serve as a basis
for the planned exhibit.

In August and September, Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate curator
of marine invertebrates, and Raymond Hays, of the office of exhibits,
spent nearly 4 weeks in Oregon collecting specimens and data for a
rocky shore habitat group being planned for the Hall of Oceanic
Life. An excellent collecting site was found about 6 miles from the
Oregon Institute of Marine Biology at Charleston, and the facilities
of this Institute enabled the field party to make the best possible use
of their time. In addition to obtaining many thousands of specimens
of invertebrates, fishes, and plants, the party took numerous color
photographs covering the animals and plants collected as well as the
site. In addition, sketches and color notations were made in prepara-
tion for the proposed exhibit.

In October, Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, worked
in the Pacific area, particularly on Jaluit Atoll, in the southern Mar-
shall Islands. This atoll is of much interest to biologists working in
the Pacific because it was nearly completely devastated by a typhoon
several years ago. Since that time two or three visits have been made
to the area to observe the sequence of events following such a natural
disaster. Dr. Rehder explored and studied various islands in the
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

atoll, their shorelines and reefs, and collected mollusks and other
marine life. At the 42 field stations made on the various islands
composing the atoll a fairly complete collection of the reef and shal-
low-water mollusks was made, amounting to thousands of specimens.
This collection will give the National Museum a good representation
of the reef fauna of the southern Marshalls and will complement exist-
ing collections from the other parts of the Marshall Islands.

Between the middle of November and the middle of February, Dr.
Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate curator of mollusks, and Thomas
G. Baker, of the office of exhibits, made intensive explorations in New
Caledonia to acquire specimens and data for a coral-reef group being
planned in the new Hall of Oceanic Life. The cooperation of various
residents of Noumea, New Caledonia, including staff members of the
Oceanographic Institution and the South Pacific Commission, made
it possible for them to spend much time on the reefs near Noumea and
to make productive dives from small boats. The barrier reef off the
coast of New Caledonia presents diverse habitats, and a very rich
fauna was observed in many spots. It is anticipated that the materials
and photographs returned to the Museum will permit the exhibits
staff to design and build an exceptionally fine replica of a Pacific coral
reef, although some further exploration may be necessary in order
to obtain certain fishes and a few other typical elements of the fauna.

Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator of phanerogams, in mid-
June, accompanied by four staff members of the office of exhibits,
examined nine sites along the eastern coast of Virginia and North
Carolina for the purpose of selecting one that would serve as a basis
for constructing a coastal-life group in the future hall of plant science.
A large number of photographs were made, sketches and watercolor
paintings of scenes and objects were executed, and the leaves of plants
were cast in plaster for future use in our exhibits laboratory.

Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate curator of phanerogams, spent about
3 weeks in Mexico, where she attended the First Botanical Congress
of that country. Subsequently she traveled about 900 miles in Mexico
studying the different types of vegetation, such as montane pine forest,
cactus, desert, and tropical selva. Specimens were obtained for the
National Herbarium, and many botanists in Mexico were encouraged
to make collections and send them to Washington for study.

Early in August, Dr. G. A. Cooper, head curator of the department
of geology, accompanied by Henry B. Roberts, museum aide, and
Dr. Druid Wilson of the U.S. Geological Survey, made a very profit-
able trip to the vicinity of Hampton, Va., where they collected Mio-
cene fossils along the James River. Two borrow pits were visited,
Wilson’s Pit and Rice’s Pit, which have a great surface from which
to collect in contrast to the usual cliff sections found in the Chesa-
peake Bay area. Consequently hundreds of very fine specimens were

SECRETARY’S REPORT 35

obtained. Perhaps the large areas available for searching account
for the fact that a fair number of new species have been turned up
from these particular pits.

In September, Dr. George S. Switzer, curator of mineralogy and
petrology, accompanied by Paul E. Desautels, associate curator of
that division, collected excellent mineralogical material at the Sower-
butt Quarry in the vicinity of Butler, N.J. In August Dr. Switzer
visited Norway and Denmark, partly to attend meetings of the Inter-
national Geological Congress and the International Mineralogical
Association in Copenhagen. Before the meeting Dr. Switzer joined
a field excursion to mineral occurrences in southern Norway, visiting
the Kongsberg silver mines, the serpentine deposits at Modum, the
Skutterud cobalt mine, the granite pegmatites of the Iveland district,
the @degiirden phosphate deposits, and the nepheline syenite peg-
matites of Langesundfjord.

In February Edward P. Henderson, associate curator of mineralogy
and petrology, accompanied by Dr. Chao of the U.S. Geological Sur-
vey and Dr. Cohen of the Mellon Institute of Pittsburgh, visited
various localities in Georgia that had produced tektites. Five tektite
localities were investigated, and it was found that the formation from
which these tektites come are more complex than the local geologists
had previously thought. Since the Georgia tektites have been chem-
ically dated as being 29 million years old, and this date has been
established by two separate investigators, the findings of tektites
in different parts of Georgia will make it possible to date accurately
some of the widely scattered beds in some sedimentary formations
that contain very few fossils.

Dr. Richard S. Boardman, associate curator of invertebrate paleon-
tology and paleobotany, during the summer months visited several
European museums and universities studying collections and also
explored areas for purposes of collecting. During June he collected
invertebrate fossils from many of the classic Lower Paleozoic locali-
ties in Britain. These localities include many of the faunas used as
standards for comparisons for stratigraphic and geologic time inter-
vals over the world. During July and parts of August and September
he collected in Norway and Sweden. The Island of Gotland produced
an even ton of remarkably preserved invertebrate fossils, which will
provide an important research collection as well as many specimens
of exhibit potential.

In connection with the Hall of Invertebrate Paleontology then
being renovated, Dr. Porter M. Kier, associate curator of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany, accompanied by Dr. Erle G. Kauffman,
assistant curator of that division, explored Scientists’ Cliffs, Md., to
obtain sediment from the Miocene outcrop to enable them to recon-
struct an echinoid-bearing slab for the echinoderm exhibit. They
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

also obtained many Miocene mollusks. Early in June Dr. Kier joined
Dr. Raymond Douglass, of the U.S. Geological Survey, in Nevada,
where they searched for Upper Cambrian carpoids. These are primi-
tive echinoderms, and no specimens as old as the Upper Cambrian
have been found outside of one locality in France. Two specimens
were located in Nevada, and these are sufficiently well preserved to
show characters never before reported in these animals. In the same
general area a collection of trilobites was made, and many topotypic
corals were obtained from the Pennsylvanian in the vicinity of Ely,
Nev.

During the year Dr. Richard Cifelli, associate curator of inverte-
brate paleontology and paleobotany, made three expeditions in the
Atlantic in collaboration with staff members of the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution. In August he joined the oceanographic
vessel 2. V. Crawford, which then traveled in a southeasterly direc-
tion and occupied the same stations that were studied a year earlier
by the scientists working from the R. V. Chain. Hydrographic ob-
servations were made and 200-meter oblique plankton tows were taken
at each station. A separate net was used for Foraminifera and a
total of 15 samples was collected. After completing work at the last
station in the Sargasso Sea, the vessel returned directly to Woods
Hole. In January Dr. Cifelli joined the research vessel 2. V. Chain
at Woods Hole and accompanied it along the regular Woods Hole
AEC traverse to Bermuda. Despite the cold, windy weather the
scientists were able to occupy all the 15 stations along this traverse,
and Dr. Cifelli collected a plankton sample for Foraminifera from
each. This was his third series from the traverse.

Dr. Cifelli’s third trip, also on board the R. V. Chain, was in the
equatorial Atlantic Ocean. The principal area of investigation was
the Romanche Trench. This feature lies on the Equator at about
longitude 18° W. and is a region of considerable geologic interest.
The depth of the Trench is over 8,000 meters, but in contrast to other
ocean deeps it is not situated adjacent to an island chain or continental
land mass. Rather, it lies on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge itself. Dr.
Cifelli joined the Chain in Freetown, Sierra Leone, on April 19 and
accompanied it to Woods Hole. Coring, bottom sampling, and bot-
tom dredging were emphasized during this phase of the cruise. The
group obtained five cores, six bottom samples, and one dredge. All
the cores contained rich layers of Foraminifera and one of them was
taken from the deepest part of the trench. In addition, plankton
tows were taken every night along the traverse from the Romanche
Trench to Woods Hole. Dr. Cifelli obtained 52 plankton samples,
which will be a valuable addition to the national collections, since
they cover a very large range of latitude.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 37

In August, Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, associate curator of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany, joined a paleontological expedition
sponsored and financed by the University of Michigan. The objective
was to obtain vertebrate and invertebrate fossil remains and detailed
stratigraphic data from the Upper Cretaceous and the Lower Tertiary
coal-bearing formations of the Alaskan interior. Fossils other than
those of plants had not previously been recorded from these beds.
Beginning work in the vicinity of Healy, Alaska, the group examined
in detail every major outcrop of the Tertiary coal-bearing formation
and some of the Upper Cretaceous deposits, including the type sections
in the Healy-McKinley area. Numerous well-preserved plant fossils
were obtained but no animal remains were discovered. A representa-
tive flora was returned to the Smithsonian. Cross-bedding studies
of the coal-bearing formation were made at many localities, and
these studies enabled the group to define more clearly the position
and size of the Tertiary coal basins and the direction of transport and
source area for the Tertiary Clastic sediments. A final week was
spent on the Kenai Peninsula in the vicinity of Homer, Alaska, where
beds of the Kenai formation, also a Tertiary coal-bearing deposit, are
well exposed in the sea cliffs. Again a search for animal life proved
fruitless, although abundant plant fossils were encountered and col-
lected. A great deal of new information concerning the stratigraphy
and sedimentology of the Alaskan coal-bearing deposits was gathered,
although the principal goal of the expedition, the discovery of fossil
animals in these deposits, was not achieved. During a brief trip in
July to Brightseat, Md., Dr. Kauffman was accompanied by museum
aide Henry B. Roberts. The purpose of this expedition was to study
the fauna and stratigraphy of the Upper Cretaceous Monmouth for-
mation and the Brightseat formation and to note the nature of their
contact at the type section. More than 3,000 invertebrate specimens
were collected, including several species previously unknown from
the Maryland Cretaceous and perhaps a few species new to science.

Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontology, carried on
extended research in Europe. In addition to studying historic fossil
collections in many European museums and attending the Interna-
tional Geological Congress at Copenhagen and various paleontological
symposia, Dr. Gazin also visited various collecting localities and ob-
tained important material for the national collections. In France he
visited the various collecting sites for Paleocene mammals in the
Cernay area and all the known quarries where Sparnacian or Lower
Eocene mammals have been found. He also worked at the Cormeilles
Quarry near Paris, where a remarkable display of Early Tertiary
horizons from the Ludian or Gypse de Paris through the Sannoisian
to the Stampian could be seen. This is very near Sannois, the type
locality for the Sannoisian Lower Oligocene. In Spain, in the vicinity
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

of Barcelona, Dr. Gazin visited important localities where strata are
exposed from the Eocene to the Pliocene. Although the local collec-
tions are essentially from the Upper Tertiary, a surprising amount of
Eocene, generally regarded as barren, is exposed in the area.

A party consisting of Dr. Nicholas Hotton, 3d, associate curator
of vertebrate paleontology, Kurt Hauschildt, museum aide, and Dr.
Frank C. Whitmore, of the U.S. Geological Survey, made two ex-
peditions during the year to Hampton, Va., to collect portions of a
whale skeleton from the Yorktown formation. They collected the
following parts of the whale: Right mandible, right maxilla, two com-
plete ribs, about 15 vertebrae representing thoracic, lumbar, and
caudal regions, and assorted small bones, mostly chevrons. This
skeleton has been tentatively identified as that of a species of Balaenop-
tera. It lay about 8 feet below the top of the Yorktown (Miocene)
formation as exposed at the site.

In November, Dr. Hotton collected vertebrates of Mississippian age
and prospected other Mississippian localities at Greer, W. Va., and
vicinity. He was accompanied by William E. Moran, formerly a
member of the staff of the division of vertebrate paleontology. The
Mississippian Period is of critical importance in the study of tetrapod
evolution, since it, marks the time of the initial radiation of the am-
phibians and the probable origins of the reptiles. Unfortunately, most
Mississippian sediments are of marine origin, so that the rarity of
terrestrial deposits of that age makes them doubly important. Three
quarries were visited and much material of significance was obtained,
including a partial skeleton of an embolomerous amphibian. In
February Dr. Hotton left for South Africa for a collecting season in
the famous Permian Karroo beds. In this work he was furnished
every accommodation by his colleagues at the University of Witwaters-
rand in Johannesburg. Considerable success was achieved in obtain-
ing many skulls and other skeletal portions of a variety of Permian
and Triassic vertebrate forms, none of which were previously repre-
sented in the collections of the Smithsonian Institution.

Staff members of the Museum of History and Technology visited
many museums in the United States and abroad during the year,
mostly to observe exhibit techniques or to procure materials for
exhibition in the new building. The fieldwork of these staff members
generally involves trips of this sort, or visits to numerous individ-
uals and institutions about the country in an attempt to procure ex-
hibit materials or to learn something about developments that will be
useful in the Smithsonian’s expanding efforts.

For a week in September, John C. Ewers, Assistant Director of
the Museum of History and Technology, was able to renew his re-
search interests in the Blackfeet Indians in Montana. Many changes
have taken place since he last visited the Blackfeet Reservation in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

1953. Among these have been a rapid decline in the use of the Black-
feet language by the Indians, the virtual disappearance of living links
between the traditional buffalo-hunting culture and the present, the
probable discontinuance of the tribal sun dance in 1959, the transfer-
ence of Indian education from Indian Service schools to public
schools of the State of Montana, and the abolition of Indian prohibi-
tion followed by the opening of several taverns in the town of Brown-
ing. Mr. Ewers obtained pertinent information which enabled him
to bring up to date his studies of the history of the Blackfeet arts
and crafts.

During the last half of August and early September Mendel L.
Peterson, head curator of armed forces history, explored underwater
sites in Bermuda. He took part in an investigation of four ship-
wreck sites, three of which dated from the 17th century and the
fourth from the early 19th century. A collection of several hundred
objects was recovered and forwarded to the Smithsonian. The most
interesting wreck site examined is believed to be that of the San
Antonio, a ship of the Spanish treasure fleet which was wrecked on
the southwestern reefs of Bermuda in 1621. Outstanding among the
hundreds of objects recovered are two wine jars of different shape and
size in perfect condition. Both are of extremely rare types. Addi-
tional items recovered were money cowries, blue glass trade beads,
tanbark, tanned leather, a very large number of red-ware shards,
Talavera shards, and some jars of numerous shapes. Among the
ordnance materials found were solid iron shot of two sizes, an ex-
tremely rare stone shot, small spheroid pebbles used in swivel guns,
and three varieties of wire musket shot believed to be unique. A sec-
ond ship investigated was the Sea Venture, which was wrecked in
1609 and resulted in the settlement of Bermuda. There is no doubt
about the identity of this ship; an irrefutable chain of evidence has
been discovered on the site, and the location of the wreck and circum-
stances of its stranding coincide perfectly with eyewitness accounts
of the event. The two remaining ships are the Virginia Merchant,
destroyed in 1660, and the Caesar, an English merchant. ship bound
for Baltimore that struck reefs southwest of Bermuda in 1818.

EXHIBITIONS

In the introductory statement of this Report the work completed
in the Smithsonian’s exhibits-modernization in the past 8 years has
been summarized. Twenty-two National Museum halls are described
in some detail in that recapitulation. It therefore seems appropriate
here to record only a few additional details that pertain particularly
to events of the past year.

During the year six modernized exhibition halls were opened to
the public.

625325624
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

The third and last section of the textile hall gallery, presenting the
origin and history of lacemaking and rugmaking and popular types
of American needlework, was completed for public inspection on
December 9, 1960. Included in this display are old American quilts,
samplers dating from the 18th and 19th centuries, laces beginning
with 16th-century drawnwork and also machine-made laces of the
19th century, and needlework handkerchiefs.

The completely renovated Hall of Monetary History and Me-
dallic Art was formally opened in the Arts and Industries Building
on March 18, 1961, in the presence of the Secretary of the Treasury,
the Under Secretary of the Treasury, Senator Clinton P. Anderson
and Representative Frank T. Bow, Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, members of the diplomatic corps, donors, collectors, and
representatives of numismatic organizations from all sections of the
United States. The central series of 19 specially designed cases
traces the major aspects of the development of money economy from
primitive barter to the establishment of our modern monetary sys-
tem. The hall also features the world’s largest collection of gold
coins, given to the Smithsonian Institution by the late Paul A.
Straub. Almost 4,000 silver coins complement this series.

The story of life through the ages from the oldest known fossils,
dated 1,600 million years ago, to the Cenozoic Era mammals is de-
picted in three halls in the Natural History Building. The synoptic
display of fossil plants features those that contributed to the formation
of coal. Fossil backboneless animals such as sponges, corals, snails,
clams, trilobites, and other extinct shelled animals are shown in geo-
logical time sequence. The second hall, that of fossil fishes and am-
phibians was informally opened in June 1960. This year a life-sized
group was completed, showing an encounter between two kinds of
pelycosaurs, or fin-backed reptiles, as it might have happened about
260 million years ago. The third hall, the Age of Mammals in North
America, traces the succession of mammals in the five epochs of Terti-
ary time from Paleocene to Pliocene, a period of 70 million years.
Skeletons of the better-known groups of mammals are supplemented
by a display of skulls for each of these epochs. The large mural
painting by Jay H. Matternes depicting some of the characteristic
mammals with contemporary reptiles and plants of the Bridger middle
Eocene has been completed, and a second mural, showing a Harrisonian
or early Miocene life assemblage of mammals, is nearly finished. These
three halls were formally opened to the public on the night of June 6,
1961.

The first of two modernized halls of North American Archeology
was opened to the public on June 24, 1961. A number of the 34
exhibits in this hall portray and explain important aspects of aborigi-
nal North American life. About half of the exhibits in the hall inter-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 4]

pret the prehistoric cultures of the North American Arctic, the North
Pacific Coast, California, and the Southwest by means of selected
artifacts, graphic materials, and life-sized and miniature groups.

A temporary meteorite exhibit, placed in the areaway connecting
the jade room and this archeology hall on the second floor of the Nat-
ural History Building, was also opened to the public on June 24,
1961.

The modernized Hall of Petroleum, adjoining the iron and steel
exhibit in the Arts and Industries Building, provides a brief histori-
cal account of the growth of the petroleum industry since the dis-
covery of the Drake well at Titusville, Pa., in 1859. This hall,
completed in June 1961, features animated models showing the two
earliest methods of drilling employed in the United States—the
springpole and the Drake rig. A small display of geophysical
exploration equipment, made possible by the generosity of Seimos
GmbH, Humble Oil Co., Continental Oil Co., Schlumberger, and
Everett Lee DeGolyer, Jr., reviews the principal methods employed to
expand knowledge of America’s oil resources. With the cooperation
of Standard Oil Co. (Indiana), Universal Oil Products Co., Esso
Standard Oil Co., M. W. Kellogg Co., C. P. Dubbs, and the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology (Prof. Harold Weber), an account
of the major developments in oil refining is presented. The experi-
mental still used by Drs. Burton and Humphries at Whiting, Ind.,
which led to the first large-scale thermal cracking of crude, was
graciously donated to the Museum by Dr. Robert Wilson. A poly-
merization plant model shows one of the earliest processes for in-
creasing the high-octane content of gasoline, which was important
in making fuel available for the allied air forces in 1939-40. The
historic fluid-catalytic cracking process which was evolved in 1941 to
provide the best qualities of fuel needed by the U.S. Air Force is also
shown, as well as a platinum-catalyst reforming process demon-
strated as a sample of the postwar effort to convert lower-grade to a
higher-grade fuel.

Construction of Hall 8, in which will be displayed the material
culture of the peoples of the Pacific Islands and South and South-
east Asia, was completed in May 1961. New construction was com-
menced in the adjacent Hall 7, which will contain the exhibits for
the peoples of Africa and eastern Asia. Continued progress was
made on the contractual construction of the large west hall fixtures
for the display of oceanic life. Architect’s plans for the moderni-
zation of the large east Hall 2, which will contain the dinosaurs
and the Mesozoic reptiles, were completed and the construction con-
tract let in June 1961.

At the end of the eighth year of the continuing modernization of
exhibits program, 9 of the 15 galleries on the first floor and 4 second-
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

floor halls in the Natural History Building have been renovated
and opened to public view.

Curatorial planning of exhibits for the large Hall of Oceanic
Life, now under construction, comprised the major exhibits project
of the department of zoology during the year. All members of the
curatorial staffs of the divisions of fishes, marine invertebrates, and
mollusks were actively engaged in this project, and those of the di-
visions of mammals and reptiles and amphibians were involved to
some extent. Four field trips have been made to collect materials for
this hall. Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison and James Watson obtained
materials for the marshy-shore and sandy-beach groups near Ocean
Spring, Miss., and Beaufort, N.C. For the Pacific coast rock-shore
and tidepool habitat group, Charles E. Cutress, Jr., and Raymond
E. Hays visited Cape Arago, Oreg. Coral-shore specimens were
collected by Dr. Frederick M. Bayer and Anthony DiStefano at Sol-
dier Key off Miami, Fla. Dr. Morrison and Thomas G. Baker
gathered material and information for the coral-reef exhibit in New
Caledonia. Five casts of fishes near record size have been donated
by Al Pflueger of North Miami, Fla.

Because of the necessarily long period of time during which the
large east Hall 2 and the northeast Hall 6 will be closed, a selection
of dinosaurs and Pleistocene animals of popular interest has been
placed on display in the rotunda of the Natural History Building.

During the year 16 new exhibits interpreting the history of medi-
cine, dentistry, and pharmacy were installed on the east gallery of
the Arts and Industries Building, bringing the total of modernized
exhibits in the field of medical sciences to 28. These new displays
illustrate the practice of bloodletting through the ages, the develop-
ment of surgical anesthesia, spectacles, medicine chests, antique
drug jars, tools of the apothecary, and dental instruments. A new
exhibit on the eye was installed in the hall of health.

A special exhibition of the “geophysical globe,” a new relief globe
of superior accuracy, was held in the rotunda of the Arts and Indus-
tries Building during April 1961. A diorama prepared for exhibition
in the hall of electricity of the Museum of History and Technology,
depicting the broadcast of a program from the studio of KDKA (one
of the pioneer commercial broadcasting stations in the world) during
the winter of 1921-22, was placed on public display. <A special ex-
hibition, featuring the model of the 1819 steamship Savannah, was
displayed in the watercraft hall in celebration of National Maritime
Week, May 21-27, 1961. The locomotive “Pioneer,” which served the
Cumberland Valley Railroad in 1851, was placed on exhibition in the
east hall of the Arts and Industries Building in February 1961. Two
landmark machine tools of 1865-75, completely restored and made
operative by William Henson, were placed on exhibition in the south-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

west gallery of the Arts and Industries Building. The first, a No. 1
Brown and Sharpe Universal Milling Machine, is set up to mill the
flutes of twist drills, which was one of the first operations undertaken
by this type of machine. The other tool, a Jones and Lamson turret
lathe, is equipped with authentically reconstructed turret tools to
produce brass oil cups. A temporary exhibition of fine prints, draw-
ings, and photographs of 18th- and 19th-century civil engineering
works, planned by Associate Curator Robert M. Vogel, was displayed
from February 1 to April 30,1961. A particularly attractive display
of decorative watches was installed in the hall of timekeeping and the
Schlage antique lock collection was shown for a period of 2 months
in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building.

An experimental fuel cell tractor, developed by the Allis-Chalmers
Manufacturing Co., was placed on special] display in the hall of farm
machinery in October 1960. Throughout the year a rotating exhibition
of color photographs lent by the Soil Conservation Service of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture was maintained at the east end of
this hall.

A special exhibit featuring 250 masterpieces of ancient Greek coin-
age, prepared by Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli from material lent by a private
collector, was displayed from December 1960 to March 11, 1961, in
the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building and from March 18
to May 26, 1961, in the monetary history hall. Several small tempo-
rary exhibits of a topical nature were arranged by the division of
political history. An inaugural exhibit was displayed from Decem-
ber 1960 to March 1961, and during the same period state gifts pre-
sented to President Eisenhower were shown. Early voting machines
and presidential commemorative material were exhibited during
February 1961. During the year the White House china collection
expanded so that representative pieces from almost every adminis-
tration are now on exhibition. A selected group of historical items
from the Postal History Museum of the Post Office Department,
which was transferred to the Smithsonian Institution April 1, 1961,
was placed on exhibition in the philately hall. On May 26, 1961, a
rare American wooden statue of William Pitt, carved in 1801 by
Joseph Wilson for the eccentric “Lord” Timothy Dexter of Newbury-
port, Mass., a gift of Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, was placed on ex-
hibition in the cultural history hall. From January 15 to February 5,
1961, the first public showing of the recently acquired Harry T.
Peter’s “America on Stone” lithography collection was held in the
foyer of the Natural History Building.

A complete display of United States military decorations and
medals, and a Civil War 12-pounder gun on its carriage were added
to the existing displays in the hall of military history. A number of
warship models, relating particularly to the Civil War, were added
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

to the exhibits in the hall of naval history, while other models were
progressively retired for major restoration. This restoration normally
involves complete repainting and re-rigging, and frequently requires
extensive research in the interest of detailed historical accuracy.

During the month of September 1960 a special exhibition of
memorabilia of Gen. John J. Pershing was placed on view in the
rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building in conjunction with the
national celebration of General Pershing’s birth. Roman antiquities
recovered from the Mediterrranean and the Sea of Galilee by the Link
expedition during the previous summer were displayed from April 1
to April 26, 1961. The division of military history prepared a special
exhibition of military epaulets for the annual meeting of the Com-
pany of Military Collectors and Historians which was held May
19-21, 1961, at Gettysburg, Pa.

Dr. A. C. Smith, Director of the Museum of Natural History,
assumed the chairmanship of the committee coordinating and supervis-
ing the modernization of the natural history exhibits following the
retirement of Dr. Herbert Friedmann as head curator of zoology. Dr.
Friedmann served with distinction as a member of the exhibits plan-
ning committee since its formation in 1950, and played an active and
substantial role in the organization and development of the exhibits
modernization program.

The major objective of the exhibits program of the Museum of
History and Technology, which is being coordinated by Assistant
Director John C. Ewers, is the development of exhibits for the new
building now under construction. Many of the exhibits destined for
future display in this new museum building are now being installed
in the Arts and Industries Building until the Museum of History and
Technology Building is completed for occupancy. Exhibits for a
number of halls in this new building were prepared in the exhibits
laboratory and carefully stored until they can be installed. These
included displays for the halls of costumes, political history, ceramics,
everyday life in the American past, physics, railroads, Armed Forces
history, and ordnance.

Exhibits Chief John E. Anglim provided the over-all supervision
of exhibits for the United States National Museum. The exhibits
work for the Museum of History and Technology was supervised by
Benjamin W. Lawless, with the assistance of Robert Widder in design,
Bela S. Bory in production, and Robert Klinger in the model shop.
Rolland O. Hower, assisted by Thomas G. Baker and Julius Tretick,
supervised the renovation of exhibition halls in the Museum of Natural
History. The design of the modernized halls in existing buildings has
been greatly aided by Richard S. Johnson, design branch chief, and
John H. Morrissey, architectural branch chief of the architectural
and structural division of the Public Buildings Service, General Serv-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 4.5

ices Administration, and by Luther H. Flouton, Charles J. Nora, and
Julius J. Dickerson, design architects of that agency. Carroll Lusk,
museum lighting specialist of Syracuse, N.Y., provided valuable con-
sultative assistance to designers of exhibition halls for the Museum of
History and Technology. George Weiner, with the assistance of
Constance Minkin, Basil Andronicos, and Edna Owens, continued the
editing of the curator’s drafts of exhibit labels.

DOCENT SERVICE

The Junior League of Washington continued its outstanding
volunteer guided tour program for schools within the Greater Wash-
ington area, with the cooperation of G. Carroll Lindsay, curator of
the Smithsonian Museum Service, working with Mrs. Dean Cowie,
chairman of the Smithsonian Volunteer Committee of the Junior
League of Washington, and Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, cochairman. At
the conclusion of the tour season Mrs. Cowie was succeeded as chair-
man by her cochairman, Mrs. Stirling. Mrs. Vernon Knight will
serve as cochairman of the Docent Committee for the forthcoming
year,

During the 1960-61 season, tours were conducted in the Halls of
Everyday Life in Early America, Native Peoples of the Americas,
Gems and Minerals, Textiles, and Power. Tours in each of the halls
were scheduled twice each day, 5 days a week from October through
January. In February tours were offered four times daily in the Halls
of Everyday Life in Early America and Native Peoples of the
Americas, while they were continued in the other three halls on the
same schedule of twice daily. Tours were conducted through April.

A total of 579 tours were conducted, in which 16,207 children par-
ticipated. This represents a marked increase over last year’s par-
ticipation. It is important to express in this report the deep gratitude
of all connected with the Smithsonian for the notable service to the
community and the Institution given by these able and dedicated
. volunteer workers.

In addition to Mrs. Cowie and Mrs. Stirling, the members of the
Docent Committee were: Mrs. George Armstrong, Mrs. A. Stuart
Baldwin, Mrs. William Dixon, Mrs. William Ford, Mrs. Clark Gear-
hart, Mrs. George Gerber, Mrs. Everett Hutchinson, Mrs. Charles
Kelly, Mrs. Vernon Knight, Mrs. Edward Lamont, Mrs. Ralph Lee
III, Mrs. Dickson Loos, Mrs. John E. Malone, Mrs. John Manfuso,
Mrs. Ernest May, Mrs. William McClure, Mrs. Robert McCormick,
Mrs. Arnold McKinnon, Mrs. Peter Macdonald, Mrs. Joseph Metcalf,
Mrs, William Minshall, Mrs. Minot Mulligan, Mrs. James Rasbury,
Mrs. Robert Rogers, Mrs. W. James Sears, Mrs. William Sloan, Mrs.
Walter Slowinski, Mrs. James Stallings, Mrs. John Voorhees, Mrs.
Richard Wallis, and Mrs. Mare White.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961
BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

On May 19, 1961, the cornerstone of the Museum of History and
Technology was laid, with the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
and members of the Joint Congressional Committee participating in
placing the mortar for the stone. The Honorable Earl Warren, Chief
Justice of the United States Supreme Court and Chancellor of the
Smithsonian Institution, together with Senator Clinton P. Anderson,
Regent of the Smithsonian Institution and Chairman of the Joint
Congressional Committee for the Museum of History and Technology,
spoke of the history and purpose of the new building. At the close
of the fiscal year the building was approximately 50 percent complete.

A contract was awarded for the construction of the east wing exten-
sion as well as alterations and air conditioning of the existing Natural
History Building January 3, 1961, to the George Hyman Construction
Co. Construction was started January 6, 1961, and the project on
June 30, 1961 was 17.5 percent complete. This east wing extension
will provide 195,000 net square feet of needed space for workrooms
and laboratories for the scientific work of the Museum of Natural
History.

In the Museum of Natural History, an additional 1,152 square feet
of floor area has been added to the division of marine invertebrates
by the installation of second-floor levels in rooms 82, 83, and 83B.
Additional lighting, utilities, and air-conditioning equipment have
been provided. A second-floor level has been installed in the supply
division stockroom adding approximately 1,496 square feet to this
area. The mineral hall has been repainted and the floor in the jade
hall has been restored to its original finish. The deteriorated plaster
in the north stairway has been removed and replaced, and all surfaces
have been repainted. Additional space has been provided for the
exhibits laboratory in the west court.

In the Arts and Industries Building, all loose, damaged plaster
has been removed from the north entrance, surfaces replastered, and
the entire area repainted. The hall of military history has been
completely redecorated.

The buildings management department furnished the custodial and
mechanical services which included the installation of needed new
doors, rewiring exhibit cases, and the improvement of the security
alarm system.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Effective June 16, 1961, the title of the division of industrial co-
operation in the department of arts and manufactures within the
Museum of History and Technology of the United States National
Museum was changed to the division of manufactures and heavy
industries.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

Frank M. Setzler, head curator of the department of anthropology,
retired December 31, 1960, after 30 years service. Dr. Herbert Fried-
mann, head curator of the department of zoology, retired May 31,
1961, after 82 years service. Dr. Friedmann is now director of the
Los Angeles County Museum.

Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator of political history, trans-
ferred to the National Park Service, effective July 9,1960. Dr. David
H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology, transferred
to the U.S. Geological Survey on September 18, 1960. Dr. Anthony
N. B. Garvan, head curator of the department of history, resigned
October 16, 1960, to accept a professorship at the University of Penn-
sylvania. John D. Shortridge, associate curator of cultural history,
resigned June 1, 1961. Eugene S. Ferguson, curator of mechanical
and civil engineering, resigned June 23, 1961, to accept a professor-
ship at Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa. Dr. William J. King,
curator of electricity, resigned June 23, 1961, to accept an appoint-
ment with the American Institute of Physics, New York City.

Dr. Richard H. Howland was appointed head curator of the depart-
ment of civil history, effective November 7, 1960. The head curator
vacancy in the department of anthropology was filled by the promo-
tion of Dr. T. Dale Stewart, effective March 5, 1961. Eugene N.
Ostroff accepted an appointment as associate curator in charge of
the section of photography, division of graphic arts, on July 25,
1960. Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., was appointed associate curator of
insects, effective January 1, 1961. Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom was
appointed effective October 3, 1960, assistant curator of grasses.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineron Ketioaa, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Bureau of American

Ethnology

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection
of the United States and the excavation and preservation of arche-

ologic remains.”
SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director of the Bureau, devoted a
portion of the year to general supervision of the activities of the
Bureau and the River Basin Surveys. In midsummer he inspected
the work of excavating parties operating in the Big Bend and Oahe
Reservoir areas in South Dakota and a portion of the Oahe Basin
in North Dakota, as well as a field party working in the Wilson
Reservoir area in Kansas. Three of the parties represented the River
Basin Surveys and three were from cooperating agencies. In addi-
tion, Dr. Roberts visited one excavation that was not a part of the
salvage program. The work at that location consisted of investiga-
tions in the remains of Fort Kearney, Nebr., a historic army post
being studied by the Nebraska State Historical Society. During part
of the trip Dr. Roberts was accompanied by Dr. John M. Corbett and
Carroll A. Burroughs of the Washington office of the National Park
Service, and during the entire trip by Paul L. Beaubien, regional
archeologist, Region Three, National Park Service. While at Pierre,
S. Dak., the group took part in an informal conference attended by
leaders of all the parties and many of their student helpers working
in the Plains during the summer. A wide range of archeological
problems in the Missouri Basin was discussed.

In September Dr. Roberts went to Mesa Verde National Park
where he served as chairman of the Advisory Group for the Wetherill
Mesa Project, a cooperative undertaking between the National Park
Service and the National Geographic Society. The group spent 3
days discussing and inspecting the excavations underway in two large
cliff ruins and studied the operations of the field laboratory handling

48
SECRETARY'S REPORT 49

the materials recovered during the digging. Recommendations were
made pertaining to the continuance of the investigations and improve-
ments in the handling and cataloging of specimens.

In November Dr. Roberts went to Norman, Okla., to attend the
Plains Conference for Archeology and participate in discussions re-
lating to the history of the Indians in that general area.

Early in April at Mule Creek, Wyo., Dr. Roberts made arrange-
ments for establishing a camp and starting a series of excavations in a
Paleo-Indian site—a cooperative project between the National Geo-
graphic Society and the Smithsonian Institution. Upon the comple-
tion of these activities he proceeded to Lawton, Okla., where he was
the principal speaker at the dedication of the Museum for the Great
Plains on April 9. Returning to the Washington office, he began
preparations for sending a field party to the site at Mule Creek and
in that connection left Washington early in June for Lincoln, Nebr.,
where he was joined by Dr. William M. Bass, who was to be the chief
field assistant, and several other members of the party. They picked
up two vehicles and field equipment and proceeded to Mule Creek to
set up camp, and on June 12 began excavations. Dr. Roberts re-
mained with the party until June 19. The party, however, continued
operations under Dr. Bass and was busy digging at the end of the fis-
cal year. Asa result of the work up to that time an extensive deposit
of bison bones, probably representing an extinct species, and a number
of artifacts have been recovered. The site is one that dates about
9,000 years ago.

Dr. Roberts completed a manuscript, “The Agate Basin Complex,”
which is to be published in Mexico in a volume containing articles
about the Paleo-Indian. He also did the technical editing of a
series of seven reports on archeological excavations and studies in
three reservoir areas, to appear in Bulletin 185 of the Bureau of
American Ethnology.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthro-
pologist, was in Europe studying collections in the principal museums
and attending two international anthropological congresses. He
visited Lascaux and a number of other Paleolithic cave and rock shel-
ter sites in the Dordogne region of France and examined Megalithic
sites and monuments in the Morbihan and Finistere districts of Brit-
tany. Dr. Collins attended the 34th International Congress of Ameri-
canists in Vienna, July 18-25, and the 6th International Congress of
Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences in Paris, July 30-
August 6. At the latter he presented a paper discussing the present
status of evidence bearing on the origin of Eskimo culture.

Dr. Collins continued to participate in the activities of the Arctic
Institute of North Amercia as a member of its Board of Governors,
as a member of the Publications Committee that supervises prepara-
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

tion of the journal Arctic and two other publication series, and of the
Research Committee that plans and supervises the Institute’s exten-
sive program of Arctic research. He also continued to serve as chair-
man of the Directing Committee responsible for preparation of the
Arctic Institute’s Arctic Bibliography, a comprehensive work which
abstracts and indexes the contents of publications in all fields of
science, and in all languages, pertaining to the Arctic and sub-Arctic
regions of the world. Volume 9 of Arctic Bibliography (1,599
pages), containing abstracts of 7,192 scientific publications on the
Arctic, was published in September 1960. Of the publications ab-
stracted in this volume, 3,170 had appeared in English, 2,548 in Rus-
sian, 790 in Swedish, Norwegian, and Danish, 338 in German, and
346 in other languages. Volume 10, similar in size and content to
volume 9, is in press, and work is proceeding on volume 11.

The project which Dr. Collins organized last year for the purpose
of translating Russian publications on the archeology, ethnology,
and physical anthropology of northern Eurasia made progress under
the editorship of Dr. Henry N. Michael of Temple University. The
first volume to be completed is S. I. Rudenko’s “The Ancient Culture
of the Bering Sea Area and the Eskimo Problem,” the only comprehen-
sive Russian work on the archeology of northeastern Siberia. It is now
in press and will appear as the first number in a special publication
series of the Arctic Institute of North America. The Advisory Com-
mittee, of which Dr. Collins is chairman, has selected material—
monographs and shorter papers—for five additional volumes which
are now being translated. The work is being carried out with the
support of a grant from the National Science Foundation.

Dr. Collins prepared a paper on the interrelationships of early
Eskimo and pre-Eskimo cultures in Alaska, Canada, and Greenland
and their affinities with Temperate Zone cultures in America and Asia
to be published in a volume of the Special Publications series of the
Arctic Institute of North America, and another paper on the environ-
mental factors involved in the origin and development of Eskimo
culture in the American Arctic.

Dr. William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, spent July and August 1960
in Europe. He attended the 34th International Congress of Ameri-
canists in Vienna and the 6th International Congress of Anthro-
pological and Ethnological Sciences in Paris. The remainder of the
period was spent in museum research. In 11 museums of England,
Austria, France, the Netherlands, and Sweden Dr. Sturtevant studied
several hundred early specimens collected from eastern North Ameri-
can Indians. He located, described, and photographed many im-
portant specimens and collections, mostly from the northeast—there
are surprisingly few early southeastern specimens in Europe. To one
familiar with collections in the United States the number and good

——e
SECRETARY'S REPORT 51

condition of early northeastern Indian objects in Europe are striking.

A secondary objective of Dr. Sturtevant’s study in Europe was a
search for possible European prototypes of modern eastern North
American Indian artifacts. Although he visited seven museums of
peasant and folklore materials, this project was less successful than
the first, both because of time limitations and because European col-
lecting and research in some important categories of artifacts (e.g.,
basketry) are insufficiently developed.

In November 1960, Dr. Sturtevant attended an informal conference
on Iroquois research in New Haven, Conn., the annual meeting of the
Southern Historical Association in Tulsa, Okla. (where he delivered
a paper on “History, Ethnohistory, and Folk History: Seminole Ex-
amples”), and the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference in
Bloomington, Ind. He also visited several museums and archival col-
lections in Oklahoma City, Norman, and Tulsa. There are several
important collections of southeastern Indian artifacts and documents
in Oklahoma.

Dr. Sturtevant also continued his research on various tribes of
eastern North America. His paper “The Significance of Ethnological
Similarities between Southeastern North America and the Antilles”
was issued as Yale University Publications in Anthropology No. 64
(1960), and shorter comments by him appeared in Bureau of American
Ethnology Bulletin 180 and in Current Anthropology, vol. 2, No. 3
(both 1961). A somewhat revised version of his “Anthropology as a
Career” (Smithsonian Publication 4343) was issued October 7, 1960.

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, linguist, completed work on two manuscripts.
One of them, “Seneca Thanksgiving Rituals,” which is in press as
Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 183, contains important
Seneca religious texts, as well as transcriptions of the music that
accompanies one of the rituals. The other, “Handbook of the Seneca
Language,” a nontechnical description of Seneca orthography and
grammar with an extensive glossary of Seneca terms encountered in
the anthropological literature, will be published as a Bulletin of the
New York State Museum. Dr. Chafe also continued the preparation
of a Seneca dictionary.

Beginning in October, Dr. Chafe mailed over 600 questionnaires in
a survey of the approximate numbers and ages of speakers of the
extant North American Indian languages. These were addressed to
individuals who have had contact with the various Indian groups.
The responses have been numerous and informative, and efforts are
now being made to fill in the gaps. Fieldwork for the project is
being conducted in cooperation with the American Philosophical
Society.

Dr. Chafe spent considerable time throughout the year processing
Arikara and Caddo linguistic material already collected and preparing
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

to do further fieldwork on Caddo. He was also fortunate in being
able to do some work with a speaker of Oklahoma Cherokee living

in Washington.
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

The River Basin Surveys, a unit of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology organized to cooperate with the National Park Service and
the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior and
the Corps of Engineers of the Department of the Army in the Inter-
Agency Archeological and Paleontological Salvage Program, con-
tinued its activities throughout the year. Attention was directed to
areas that are to be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the construction
of large dams in the various river systems of the United States.
The year’s investigations were supported by a transfer of $123,895
from the National Park Service to the Smithsonian Institution. Of
that sum, $103,895 was for work in the Missouri Basin and $20,000 for
studies along the Chattahoochee River in Alabama and Georgia. On
July 1, 1960, the Missouri Basin Project had a carryover of $9,420,
and that, with the new appropriation, provided a total of $113,315
for the Missouri Basin Project. The grand total of funds available
in 1960-61 for the River Basin Surveys was $133,315.

Activities in the field were mainly concerned with excavations, al-
though there were some limited surveys in two areas. The funds
available for the last fiscal year were slightly greater than those
for the preceding one, but because of increased costs there was little
gain in the amount of work accomplished. On July 1, 1960, there
were three excavating parties working in the Missouri Basin in South
Dakota. One of them was digging sites in the Big Bend Reservoir
area, and the other two were working in the Oahe Reservoir area
farther north. The Missouri Basin parties completed their field
activities the latter part of August and returned to the headquarters
at Lincoln, Nebr.

In September a party resumed explorations and excavations along
the Chattahoochee River in Alabama and subsequently extended its
efforts to the Georgia side of the river in the Walter F. George
Reservoir area. Work continued there until the end of December.
During October a small party spent a brief period investigating a site
that was being destroyed by gravel operations in the upper reaches
of the Big Bend Reservoir area in South Dakota and also collected
material from the immediate construction areas of the Big Bend Dam.

The 1961 field season got under way in May, when a small party
went to the Merritt Reservoir area in Nebraska to make a final check
on possible archeological manifestations at that location. Two pre-
vious surveys there had failed to reveal cultural materials, but it was
thought that because of shifting sand dunes and construction activities
something previously missed might have been uncovered. Nothing

SECRETARY'S REPORT 53

of that nature was found, and the party moved to the Big Bend area
in South Dakota where it was expanded and began a series of excava-
tions in some burial mounds. A second party went to the Big Bend
area on June 13 and started excavations in a large village site on the
west side of the river 4 miles above the dam site. A third party
started working on the west side of the Missouri River in the Oahe
Reservoir Basin on June 19. It was digging in a large village site
located about 5 miles south of Mobridge, S. Dak. All three parties
had the season’s program well under way and were busily digging
at the close of the fiscal year. During the fiscal year, 11 parties repre-
senting institutions cooperating in the Missouri Basin program worked
in four reservoir areas in Kansas, Nebraska, and South Dakota.
There were 24 parties from cooperating institutions working in other
basins throughout the country.

As of June 30, 1961, the River Basin Surveys had carried on
reconnaissance work or had excavated in 255 reservoir basins located
in 29 States. In addition, two lock projects and four canal areas have
been examined. During the years since the program got under way
4,952 sites have been located and recorded, and of that number 1,157
were recommended for excavation or limited testing. Because com-
plete excavation has not been possible in any but a few exceptionally
small ones, when the term “excavation” is used it implies digging
only as much of a site as is thought essential to provide a reasonable
sample of the materials and information to be found there. Prelim-
inary appraisal reports have been issued for most of the reservoir
areas which were surveyed. In some cases no archeological manifes-
tations were noted and no general report was issued. During the past
fiscal year no new reconnaissance work was undertaken and no such
reports were distributed.

By the end of the fiscal year, 519 sites in 54 reservoir areas located
in 19 different States had either been tested or dug sufficiently to
provide good information about them. The sites in which digging
has been done cover a wide range of cultural characteristics. Some
of them pertain to early hunting and gathering peoples of about
10,000 years ago, while others represent communities lived in by
early historic Indians and the remains of frontier, army, and trading
posts of European origin. Between the two extremes are a series of
sites attributable to sedentary horticultural groups extending from
approximately the 6th to the 13th centuries A.D.

Reports on the work have been published in the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Miscellaneous Collections, in Bulletins of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, and in various scientific journals and historical quar-
terlies. Bulletin 176, containing River Basin Surveys Papers Nos.
15-20, was distributed in December 1960. These papers consist of
a series of reports on historic sites excavated in the Garrison, Oahe,
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

and Fort Randall Reservoir areas in North and South Dakota. Bulle-
tin 179, containing River Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 21-24, a series
of reports on work in Texas, Iowa, and along the Columbia River, is
in proof form and should be distributed in the early part of the next
fiscal year. The papers in that Bulletin were listed in the report for
1959-60 and need no further comment here. During the year, River
Basin Surveys Paper No. 25, a report on the “Archeology of the John
H. Kerr Reservoir Basin, Roanoke River, Virginia-North Carolina,”
by Carl F. Miller, was sent to the printer and will appear as Bulletin
182. Another series of River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 26-32, to
comprise Bulletin 185, was edited and sent to the printer in June.
These reports are: “Small Sites in and about Fort Berthold Indian
Reservation, Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota” and “Star Village:
A Fortified Historic Arikara Site in Mercer County, North Dakota,”
by George Metcalf; “The Dance Hall of the Santee Bottoms on the
Fort Berthold Reservation, Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota,” by
Donald D. Hartle; “Crow-Flies-High (32MZ1), a Historic Hidatsa
Village in the Garrison Reservoir Area, North Dakota,” by Carling
Malouf; “The Stutsman Focus: An Aboriginal Culture Complex in
the Jamestown Reservoir Area, North Dakota,” by Richard P.
Wheeler; “Archeological Manifestations in the Toole County Section
of the Tiber Reservoir Basin, Montana,” by Carl F. Miller; “Archeo-
logical Salvage Investigations in the Lovewell Reservoir Area, Kan-
sas,” by Robert W. Neuman.

The figures showing the distribution of reservoir projects through-
out the country and those in which excavations have been made did not
change during the current fiscal year and for that reason need not be
repeated. Readers desiring that information can obtain it by re-
ferring to the Bureau’s 77th Annual Report, for the fiscal year 1959-
60. ‘The excavations conducted during the present fiscal year were
all in reservoir areas previously listed. Figures pertaining to the
work done by State and local institutions under agreements with the
National Park Service have not been included in recent reports be-
cause complete information about them is not available in the River
- Basin Surveys office.

The River Basin Surveys received helpful cooperation throughout
the year from the National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation,
the Corps of Engineers and other army personnel, and from various
State and local institutions. The field personnel of all the cooperat-
ing agencies assisted the party leaders in numerous ways, and in all
areas the relationship was excellent. Both in Washington and in
the field the National Park Service continued to serve as a liaison
between the various agencies. It also was responsible for the prepa-
ration of estimates and justifications for the funds needed to carry
on the salvage program. The Commanding Officer at Fort Benning

SECRETARY’S REPORT 55

in Georgia provided valuable assistance in numerous ways while
investigations were being made in the portion of the Walter F. George
Reservoir basin which lies in the Fort Benning Reservation. In addi-
tion, the Georgia Historical Commission, the University of Georgia,
and various local clubs and groups of citizens in both Alabama and
Georgia assisted the leader of the River Basin Surveys party while
he was working along the Chattahoochee River. In the Missouri
Basin the project engineers for the Oahe Reservoir provided space
for temporary living accommodations and also for the storage of
equipment. Ina number of cases the construction agency lent mechan-
ical equipment which was most helpful in the stripping of the topsoil
from sites and the backfilling of trenches and test pits. In the Mis-
souri Basin the Corps of Engineers also cooperated with the staff of
the Missouri Basin Project of the River Basin Surveys in the prepara-
tion of a number of small informative pamphlets telling about several
of the reservoirs along the Missouri River.

General supervision of the program was from the main office in
Washington, but the activities in the Missouri Basin operated from
the field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln, Nebr. At the be-
ginning of the year the latter provided office assistance and some
equipment for the Chattahoochee River Project, but subsequently most
of that activity was transferred to the main office in Washington.
The Lincoln laboratory processed all the materials collected by ex-
cavating parties in the Missouri Basin and also some of those from
the Chattahoochee.

Washington office—Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., continued to
direct the main headquarters of the River Basin Surveys at the Bureau
of American Ethnology throughout the year. Carl F. Miller, arche-
ologist, was based at that office and from time to time assisted the
Director in some of the general administrative problems. Harold A.
Huscher, archeologist, worked under the general supervision of the
Washington office, but at the beginning of the fiscal year was based
on the field headquarters for the Missouri Basin Project at Lincoln,
Nebr. After completing his field activities along the Chattahoochee
River, Alabama-Georgia, in late December, he joined the Washington
office and continued to work there the remainder of the fiscal year.

Mr. Miller spent the entire time in the Washington office working
on materials and data he had collected during previous seasons in
the field. He spoke before various groups interested in archeological
subjects and answered numerous inquiries pertaining to artifacts and
cultural materials from the southeastern archeological area. He also
identified artifacts from 15 collections of southeastern material. In
October he attended the sessions of the Eastern States Archeological
Federation in Toronto, Canada, and in May he presented a paper on

625325—62—_5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

“The Archeology of the Clarksville Site, 44 Me 14, Mecklenburg
County, Virginia,” before a joint session of the Archeological Societies
of Virginia and North Carolina held at Clarksville. He completed a
short paper, “The Physical Structure of Rock Mound at 9 ST 8,
Georgia,” which was published in Southern Indian Studies, vol. 11,
pp. 16-19. Mr. Miller furnished data that were used in the prepara-
tion of the “Ethnological Map of Virginia,” which was published by
Hearn Brothers, Detroit, Mich.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Harold A. Huscher, while on
annual leave, assisted Dr. Richard G. Forbis, Glenbow Foundation,
Calgary, Alberta, in the excavation of the remains of a fortified earth-
lodge village at Cluny in the Blackfoot Reserve on the Bow River
about 65 miles east of Calgary. Returning from Canada he drove
south by way of the front ranges and the high plains, visiting a number
of the more important Early Man-type sites, such as those at Sage-
creek and Agate Basin in Wyoming, Dent and Apex Spring in Col-
orado, and Homo Novusmundus in New Mexico. In mid-August
he returned to duty at Lincoln, Nebr., where he made preparations for
resuming the archeological investigations in the Walter F. George Dam
and Lock area along the Chattahoochee River. Shortly after his
arrival at Eufaula, Ala., at the end of August, he started his fieldwork.
After returning to the Washington office in January he devoted his
time to bringing up to date the several years’ backlog of maps and field
notes pertaining to the Chattahoochee investigations. In May the
processed collections of the two previous years’ fieldwork in Alabama-
Georgia were moved from Lincoln to Washington for storage at the
U.S. National Museum, and Mr. Huscher proceeded to combine that
material with the collections he had made during the current season.
At the close of the fiscal year he was busy selecting bone and shell
specimens and items pertaining to the early colonial period for iden-
tification by various Smithsonian specialists.

Alabama-Georgia.—During the period from mid-September to the
end of December Harold A. Huscher, using a power-driven screen of
3£-inch mesh and a small crew of local laborers, tested a series of
15 sites below Eufaula, Ala., in the southwestern quadrant of the
Walter F. George Reservoir Basin. Most of the sites fall into two
general classes. The first group consists of those with a predominance
of Mississippian pottery, characterized by the early Mississippian
globular pots with loop handles, comparable to the Macon Plateau
types in Georgia and the Gordon types in Tennessee. Such pottery
actually has a long time span, continuing down to the opening of the
historic period (Pinellas, Fort Walton). 'The second group includes
sites with an overlay of late Creek pottery such as the Chattahoochee
Brushed variants and Kasihta Red-film in association with trade
metal, china, and glass.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 57

Most major sites in this reservoir, however, are proving to be in
the multiple-component category with several time levels represented.
The stratification is usually gradational rather than sharply demar-
cated, hence the digging is by arbitrary levels. At sites favorably
located on the terrace points near stream junctions, underlying Early
Woodland and Archaic manifestations usually will be definitely iden-
tifiable, though not sharply separable, at depths of 2.0-5.0 feet below
the present surface. The following are the most important sites in-
vestigated during the fall season :

The Spann’s Landing site, 1HE34, is located in Alabama 3 miles
above the dam axis, in a loop of the Chattahoochee River opposite
Grace’s Bend, and a little more than a mile below the Mandeville
Mound site (1CLA1)? in Clay County, Ga. This site extends for
more than 800 feet along the crest of a low natural levee, with the
greatest concentration of material at the north or upstream end.
A series of 14 squares 10-x-10 feet were laid out there in two rows,
so spaced as to give an adequately distributed sampling. Of the
14 squares, 8 pits were actually dug, to varying depths down to 5.0
feet. There is a sparse overlay of brushed pottery, indicating some
use of the area during the Late Creek period, but the most intense
occupation was during Mississippian times, and probably fairly early
Mississippian times, as indicated by the pottery remains. One pro-
ductive cache pit yielded parts of several pots of the Pinellas arcaded
ware (“pumpkin pot,” “melon pot’), a type described from Florida
and attributed to a late peripheral Mississippian manifestation. It
is, however, considered diagnostic of a possibly earlier Mississippian
period as described by Caldwell for the great Rood’s Landing site
(9SW1), 30 miles farther north, and the Mississippian cap on the
large Mandeville Mound (Stark’s Clay Landing, 9CLA1), as reported
by McMichael and Kellar. Along the Chattahoochee the arcaded pots
with temper and handle variants may have a much longer time range,
apparently continuous, than in Florida, extending back to the earlier
Macon Plateau period, with the Singer-Moye site (9SW2), south of
Lumpkin on the headwaters of Pataula Creek, one of the earliest
major sites. At depths of 2.5-4.0 feet below the present surface at
Spann’s Landing, fiber-tempered pottery comparable to the Stallings
Island and Orange Plain types of the latest Archaic and earliest

*Site designations used by the River Basin Surveys are trinomial in char-
acter, consisting of symbols for State, County, and site. The State is indicated
by the first number, according to the numerical position of the State name in
an alphabetical list of the United States; thus, for example, 32 indicates North
Dakota, 39 indicates South Dakota. Counties are designated by a two-letter
abbreviation; for example, ME for Mercer County, MN for Mountrail County,
ete. The final number refers to the specific site within the indicated State
and County.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Woodland occurred consistently, as well as early point types, the
latter regularly consisting of the decomposed flint first described
from the Macon area by Kelly.

1HE51, a site in Alabama at the junction of Hardridge Creek and
the Chattahoochee River, 2.5 miles above the dam axis, was tested
by six 10-foot squares, ranging in depth down to 5 feet. The pre-
dominant occupation there was Early Woodland, with fiber-tempered,
Deptford, and Swift Creek pottery types recognized. However, no
productive pit area was located. A number of large, heavy-stemmed
projectile points, again in the decomposed flint characteristic of the
Archaic in this area, were recovered from the deeper levels. Several
less important sites near Hardridge Creek were tested by from one
to six 10-foot squares, to obtain a broad spectrum sample of the range
of pottery in thearea. One site, 1HE56, yielded a number of sherds of
all-over fingernail-incised pottery, the only site where this specialty
has risen to a significant frequency.

Somewhat farther north, between White Oak and Cheneyhatchee
Creeks, another series of sites was tested in order to check on ex-
posures of Chattahoochee Brushed pottery, since a Late Creek village,
Okitiyakni, had supposedly been somewhere in the general area.
1BR46, 47, and 2A were found to yield significant amounts of
brushed pottery, and one area of pits was located at 46. There a large
fragment of a restorable pot, which agrees closely with published
descriptions of the Late Creek ware from the Southeast and from
Oklahoma, was found in direct association with trade metal. Eleven
squares in all were dug at these sites, but no structural remains were
identified. Eight 10-x-10-foot squares were dug at five other nearby
locations, but information recovered was less important. One site
at the south side of Barbour Creek (1BR10) was checked by four
10-x-10-foot squares, and consistently found to yield Gulf Woodland
forms, some in direct association with a level of basin-shaped hearths.
One of the latter was filled with irregular fist-sized fragments of
burned clay, possibly fired for use as cooking “stones” or to provide
pottery temper.

In November 1960 an immediate salvage job became necessary on
Hatcheechubbee Creek, in Russell County, Ala., some 17 miles north
of Eufaula, where a highway relocation project was destroying an
Early Woodland site, 1RU74. Known as the Kite site, it was dis-
covered in 1959 by Sergeant David W. Chase. It lay on a point of
terrace between the creek and a smal] unnamed spring branch from
the north. There four 10-foot squares were laid out parallel to the
right-of-way and taken down to depths up to 5 feet. The upper
layers yielded several types of Early Woodland sherds of the Dept-
ford and Swift Creek series, and a considerable range of thick fiber-
tempered sherds (Stallings, Orange) was obtained at slightly lower
SECRETARY'S REPORT 59

levels. <A series of stone artifacts was obtained in the deeper part of
the tests. They consisted of the very characteristic decomposed flint
of the Archaic. Several burned rock areas were noted, but no pits
were found. The site, though not rich, was interesting in that there
was much less intrusion from above, with the close mixing of time
periods that makes some of the larger, more productive sites so
confusing.

Beginning November 19, the remaining time was devoted to work
on two mound sites. Trenched previously, they were 9QU1, and
9QU5, south of Georgetown, Ga., in Quitman County.

9QU1, Moore’s “Mounds near Georgetown, Quitman County,
Georgia” (Mounds of Lower Chattahoochee and Lower Flint Rivers,
Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 2d ser. vol. 13, pt. 3, pp. 426-456,
448), locally called the “Gary’s Fishpond Mound” or the “Gary’s
Fishpond Site,” consists of extensive village remains and a large low
mound, now almost completely plowed down and carried away. The
site was tested in the spring of 1960 by digging a T-trench along the
east margin of the mound, and seven 10-x-10-foot trenches in the
adjacent village areas. Although actually only the roots of the
mound are left, it appeared desirable to attempt to determine more
exactly the period of its building. Since the outwash apron of the
mound was found to be intact, it seemed the site offered an oppor-
tunity for getting direct separation of mound, mound fill, and pre-
mound periods, with the additional prospect of locating separate pits
or features that would give individual “pure” samples.

The original grid was reset and a larger area in the western half of
the mound remnants was stripped, revealing the roots of a circular
mound faced with clay. It probably was originally about 200 feet in
circumference at the base. A section trench cut through the western
margin revealed that the clay facing had been carefully built up at
a steep angle. The actual base of the mound was about 4 feet below
the present surface in this area. A palisade of spaced large-diameter
posts followed just outside the curve of this clay wall, but the posts
did not appear to have been set into the wall. The indications were
of some sort of a clay-faced “caracol” type mound. Additional
bedding lines outside the circular periphery indicated a possibility
that some kind of overlying rectangular mound had been built on the
core of the original circular mound. An area 20-x-20 feet was ex-
cavated in mottled fill in the calculated center of the circular mound
revealing numbers of post holes in interrupted alignments, running
NW.-SE. and NE.-SW., though no clearly defined structure could
be made out. Because of increasing inclemency of the weather the
planned excavation of this center pit down into the submound could
not be completed in the available time and the site was closed down.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

However, additional work is certainly indicated for that location and
will be scheduled for the early part of the new field season.

Several lots of midden excavated in the central 20-x-20-foot pit
contain a high frequency of a carefully finished plain ware with
thickened rims and no handles. This does not seem to be the local
Weeden Island type, but may be evidence of contacts with or an actual
occupation of the site by Early Mississippian peoples carrying a
culture somewhat like that which becomes Coles Creek and Mound-
ville farther west. If such were the case, the overlying rectangular
structure would then relate to the later Fort Walton-Lamar period
which seems to account for the greater part of the pottery from this
site. The one recognizable structural pattern found, other than the
mound, was located in the nearby village and consisted of large post
holes at spaced intervals, outlining a corner and two adjacent walls
of what was probably a house of the later period.

Additional work was done at 9QU5, a site referred to locally as the
“Mound on the Lower Lampley Place” or the “Mound below Cool
Branch.” For brevity the site and mound will be referred to as the
“Cool Branch Mound Site.” This site had been tested previously by
a 5-foot trench from the east margin to the approximate center of the
mound. The mound proper was built of basket-loaded clay, appar-
ently at one single stage of building, and there was a submound post-
hole pattern indicating some sort of premound building.

Thirteen additional 10-x-10-foot test pits were dug at this site,
eight in an east-west line across the north margin, paralleling the edge
of the terrace, and five bracketing the mound proper. Using a tractor
scraper, the surface of the mound was stripped, revealing the approxi-
mate edges of a regular rectangular clay-platform mound, with the
corners oriented to the cardinal points. The mound was then bull-
dozed away to a level approximately 0.5 foot above the contact of the
clay mound with the underlying river-silt surface of the terrace, as
determined in the previous trenching. The center of the mound was
then cleared by hand shoveling, revealing the post holes of a rectangu-
lar submound structure of closely set posts, corners closed, approxi-
mately 27-x-36 feet over all. This building was oriented with the
overlying mound, though lying partly outside the baseline on the
northwest side. As nearly as could be determined from the bulldozed
surface without actually tracing out the lines by shoveling, the south-
west margin being the least certain, the original base dimensions of
the mound were about 55-x-55 feet. At the center of the submound
structure was a pile of red iron ore (hematite) probably representing
a symbolic ceremonial fire. The sand beneath was stained red but did
not seem actually to have been burned. Two beautiful spud celts, one
of a fine-grained greenstone, were found together in the mound fill
about a foot above the contact. Both had been broken by the bull-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

dozing. The spud is commonly found in Mississippian mound sites
westward to the Mississippi River.

A 5-x-10-foot test below the actual submound level revealed wall
trenches of a rectangular open-cornered building, oriented NE.-SW.,
and in one of the series of 10-x-10-foot trenches, 75 feet southeast of
the main mound, a straight section of wall trench was found. These
features could not be examined further in the time available. Another
test 400 feet northwest of the mound center and about 100 feet back
from the terrace edge, also uncovered a house-wall trench at depths
of 1.5 to 2.0 feet. Using a tractor, about a thousand square feet were
stripped, tracing out the wall lines, but time did not permit complete
study of the patterns. Rectangular, open-cornered houses, closely
spaced but apparently not adjoining, were arranged in rows running
NE.-SW. Hearths appeared to be in the forecourt to the southeast,
rather than within the houses. No clearly defined occupation floor
could be identified, hence the associations are not certain. Most of
the pottery from that part of the site seems earlier than the houses,
which presumably slightly antedate the mound, but continue into the
mound period, since there is no evidence of a later house type. House
evidence is so difficult to obtain along the Chattahoochee River, how-
ever, that negative evidence cannot be relied upon, and the known
house areas at this site should be excavated further to get as complete
house plan evidence as possible.

During the field season parties from the University of Alabama and
the University of Georgia, under agreements with the National Park
Service, also worked at sites in the Walter F. George Reservoir area.

Missouri River Basin—For the fifteenth consecutive year the Mis-
souri Basin Project continued to operate from the field headquarters
and laboratory in Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served
as chief of the project throughout the year. Activities included sur-
veys, excavations, analysis of materials, and reporting on results.
During the summer months the work was mainly concerned with
excavations, Analyses and preparation of reports received the major
attention throughout the other months of the year. The special
chronology program begun in January 1958 continued to receive
attention.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the permanent staff, in addition
to the chief, consisted of 3 archeologists, 1 administrative assistant, 1
clerk-stenographer, 1 illustrator, 1 file clerk on the permanent staff,
and 12 crewmen on the temporary staff. One paleontologist, on loan
from the National Park Service, was added to the temporary staff
for a month for the purpose of analyzing nonhuman bone material
from the sites excavated over the past three seasons. In June, 2
assistant field archeologists, 1 cook, and 25 field crewmen were added
to the temporary staff.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

At the end of the fiscal year there were 3 archeologists in addition
to the chief, 1 administrative assistant, 1 administrative clerk, 1 sec-
retary, 1 scientific illustrator, 1 photographer, and 4 museum aides on
the permanent staff, and 2 assistant field archeologists, 1 cook, and 25
field crewmen on the temporary staff.

During the year there were 10 Smithsonian Institution River Basin
Surveys field parties at work in the Missouri Basin. Three of these
were in the Oahe Reservoir area and two were in the Big Bend
Reservoir area of South Dakota during July and August. One small
field party conducted investigations during October and November in
the Big Bend Reservoir area. One party investigated the Merritt
Reservoir area in Nebraska during May and June. Two parties were
excavating in the Big Bend Reservoir area and one in the Oahe
Reservoir area during June.

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included
11 parties from State institutions operating under cooperative agree-
ments with the National Park Service and in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution in the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage
Program.

There was a slight increase in appropriated funds for fiscal year
1961, but since most of the new money was to cover wage-scale in-
creases beginning in July, the fiscal situation brought into even sharper
focus than before the critical problem of accomplishing the minimum
necessary salvage at a time when two of the largest reservoirs, Big
Bend and Oahe, were nearing completion and, in fact, Oahe was be-
ginning to flood some of the important unexcavated archeological
sites. However, when the parties took to the field in June it was
possible to shift the methods of fieldwork from sampling of large
numbers of sites back to the intensive excavation of a smaller number
of key sites. The sampling techniques of the preceding two field
seasons had been successful but some of the more intensive excavations
were again needed.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. Warren W. Caldwell and
a crew of eight were engaged in minor test excavations at two sites
in the Big Bend Reservoir of South Dakota. Site 391.M222, near
the mouth of Medicine Creek, in Lyman County, was a diffuse village
of the La Roche complex. A small, circular house with closely spaced
wall posts, four center posts, and a long entry passage, lay just above
an earlier structure of indeterminate pattern. A shallow ditch sur-
rounding the deeper house suggested that the house itself may have
formed a bastion, or strong point, in the fortification system. Seg-
ments of both superimposed houses were excavated. Portions of a
third house were also dug and it proved to have been a small, circular
building differing little in structural details from the uppermost of
the two superimposed houses. Pottery and other artifacts were
Secretary's Report, 1961 PLATE 1

1. Use of power screen speeds testing of sites in Walter F. George Reservoir area, Alabama.
River Basin Surveys.

2. Tracing bottom edge of large mound along Chattahoochee River in Georgia. River
Basin Surveys.
Secretary's Report, 196] PRitAT Ewe

1. Floor pit for rectangular earth lodge in Oahe Reservoir area, South Dakota. Remains
of posts are visible along left wall. River Basin Surveys.

2. Excavating base of low mound in Oahe Reservoir area in North Dakota. Bison remains
buried with human bodies may be seen at left. ‘Traces of logs at right cover human
skeletons. River Basin Surveys.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

homogenous throughout the site, indicating a single La Roche-Iona-
Russell Ware tradition and but one occupation. This would place
the village in the late sedentary-farmer period of the 15th to 17th
centuries. The second site of the group, 39L.M224, is located but a
mile downstream from 39L.M222, and represented another La Roche
village of diffuse pattern, but with only four houses apparent from the
surface. One of them, a burned circular structure with widely spaced
wall posts and long entry passage was partially excavated.

On July 19, Dr. Caldwell moved to the Oahe Reservoir area in old
Armstrong County (now a part of Dewey County), above the mouth
of the Cheyenne River on the west bank of the Missouri, and hired a
new crew of laborers. The Oahe Reservoir, already beginning to
flood, had begun to cover some of the sites in that vicinity. One of
those still above water was site 839A R201, the remains of a large com-
pact village of 18 long-rectangular houses placed in rows but without
apparent fortifications. The remnants of one of the structures were
excavated and other tests were made in the site. This extremely long,
narrow house had been nearly twice as long as it was wide and its
ruins were covered by 4.5 feet of overburden. There had been a low
bench along the rear wall into which a shallow trench had been dug to
receive the rear wall posts. Dentalium, native copper, and abundant
human bone scraps lay on the floor and an ochre-covered human
bundle burial associated with a bison skull was found in the southeast
corner. Pottery was consistently Thomas Riggs Ware. This site
represented a village of the Thomas Riggs Focus of middle-period
sedentary farmers in the Missouri Valley and may date from the 15th
century. Less than 500 yards downstream the remains of another
large Thomas Riggs village, site 39A R210, were tested and found to
resemble 39A R201 in all respects except that there had been a rectan-
gular, bastioned fortification system. ‘This site had been flooded by the
Oahe Reservoir and reexposed by a drop in the water level. Recovery
of archeological details was minimal, owing to their having been
obscured by the flood waters, but a good artifact sample was collected.
The Caldwell party completed the season’s work after 9 weeks in the
field.

The third River Basin Surveys party in the field at the beginning
of the year, consisting of a crew of six under the direction of Robert
W. Neuman, was excavating at the Boundary Mound site (32SI1) on
the North Dakota-South Dakota boundary line in the Oahe Reservoir
area, Sioux County, N. Dak. The site consisted of four dome-shaped
burial mounds, ranging from 3 to 5 feet in height and 60 to 80 feet in
diameter. Three of the mounds were excavated. Each contained a
rectangular central burial pit covered with timbers and lined with
matting. Bison remains (skulls, partial skeletons, and complete
skeletons in articulation) were found around the timbers. The burial
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

pits were 3 to 4144 feet deep and contained from 6 to 14 secondary
human burials, the bones of several being coated with red pigment.
Artifacts were generally associated with a single individual in each
pit. They included side-notched projectile points, triangular knives,
bipointed drills, an obsidian end scraper, sandstone atlatl weights, a
catlinite object, cigar-shaped bone objects, tubular bone beads, bone
awls, a bone pendant, a bear canine pendant, shell pendants, and
worked human mandibles as well as those from dogs and beaver. This
mound group comprised burial tumuli of the Woodland period with
relationships to the east and southeast of the area. They probably date
from the period of 1,500 years ago and earlier.

The Neuman party continued investigations in other burial-mound
sites along the right bank of the Missouri River between Mandan,
N. Dak., and Mobridge, S. Dak. Site 32M0207 is a group of three
mounds in Morton County, N. Dak., some 20 miles south of Mandan.
One of them was excavated but yielded only a single secondary hu-
man burial and no artifacts. The Schmidt site (82M020) is a group
of eight burial mounds 12 miles south of Mandan in Morton County.
One mound, 75 feet in diameter and 1.3 feet high, was excavated. It
contained a single secondary human burial in a rectangular, central,
timber-covered burial pit. Articulated bison bones lay near the
charred timbers that had covered the pit. The only artifacts recovered
were a few fragmentary stone tools from the surface near one of the
unexcavated mounds. The Swift Bird site (839DW233) is a group of
two burial mounds and three shallow, circular depressions. One of
the mounds, 70 feet in diameter and 3 feet high, was excavated. A
single primary burial lay on the mound floor. Artifacts associated
with the burial include dentalium beads, a tubular bone bead, and a
shell pendant in the shape of a thunderbird. It is of interest to note
that no pottery was found in association with any of these burial
mounds. The Neuman party completed the season’s work on Septem-
ber 1, after 12 weeks in the field.

The fourth Missouri Basin Project field party at work at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year was a crew of three, under the direction of G.
Hubert Smith, investigating historic sites in the Oahe Reservoir area.
Activities at the site of Fort Sully (89SL45) in Sully County consisted
of excavations of building foundations and refuse dumps and latrine
pits in several parts of the site. Pits dug near the hospital and the
barroom locations were particularly informative. The excavations
provided detailed outlines of some of the main structures of this mili-
tary post of the 1866-94 period. They also produced one of the largest
known collections, obtained under controlled conditions, of military
and civil objects of this period. Especially noteworthy is a large
array of glassware, including “art glass,” hundreds of bottles, medical-
department glassware, and household glass. Many of these objects

SECRETARY'S REPORT 65

are complete or little damaged and are marked as to origin or pur-
pose. Objects of earthenware in great quantity, including Oriental
earthenware, and numerous items of metal and leather were recovered.
Strictly military objects are in the minority but unusual items of
both military and civilian use will form a valuable comparative col-
lection and future exhibit material. Even specimens of printer’s
type, for printing official orders, were found.

Investigations at the site of Fort Bennett (1870-91) in Stanley
County, directly opposite Fort Sully, having been abandoned in June
owing to flooding by the Oahe Reservoir, were resumed in August
when the pool level had receded somewhat. The site was uncovered
but the ground was so thoroughly waterlogged that excavation was
impractical. Photographs were take for record purposes and some
historic specimens were collected. The experience gained there, as at
other flooded sites, clearly emphasizes the hopelessness, in a great
majority of cases, of trying to do archeological work in sites that have
once been flooded and reexposed when the waters receded, whether the
sites in question be historic or prehistoric.

On August 10 the fifth Missouri Basin Project field party, con-
sisting of Smith and his crew, moved into the Big Bend Reservoir
area to conduct preliminary tests at site 89ST202, believed to be that
of Fort George, a trading post of the 1840’s. Only the scantiest con-
temporary record of this post has been found, although it was visited
by Audubon and is reputed to have been of some importance as an
opposition post in the fur trade. Tests there located former log habi-
tations and occupational debris of the period. The site is located in
Stanley County at the northeast corner of the Brule Indian Reserva-
tion. This field party also took charge of an emergency excavation of
six human burials accidentally located by construction activities at
the Big Bend Dam site and reported by the Corps of Engineers. The
interments were in wooden coffins and contained glass beads and other
late objects suggesting the early reservation period, though no record
of such graves has been found. The Smith party completed 9 weeks
in the field and returned to Lincoln August 19.

During the period October 26 to November 6, one Missouri Basin
Project field party investigated a site being destroyed by gravel opera-
tions in the upper reaches of the Big Bend Reservoir area. Robert
W. Neuman and a crew of two examined and tested the areas of the
Arzberger site (839HU6), which were being cut away as a gravel
quarry. A rich midden and several cache pits were exposed and ex-
eavated. Artifacts were collected and data compiled, but there ap-
peared to be little material that had not already been discussed in a
report on this site. During the same period Neuman also made a
flight over the lower portion of the Oahe Reservoir and took aerial
photos of several sites that had been flooded and reexposed by a drop
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

in the pool level. On the return trip to Lincoln this party also visited
sites in the immediate construction area of the Big Bend Dam (at the
request of the Corps of Engineers) and while there collected speci-
mens for dendrochronological use. It also visited an earth-lodge vil-
lage site near Wessington Springs, S. Dak., and examined several ama-
teur collections in southwest Minnesota and northwest Iowa.

The 1961 summer field season in the Missouri River Basin began in
the Merritt Reservoir area on May 25. Robert W. Neuman and an
assistant spent 11 days in a final intensive search of the flood-pool area
of this dam on the Snake River in Cherry County, Nebr. The dam
is well along in construction and, despite two previous surveys that
provided very little archeological evidence, it was thought that a final
investigation should be made. ‘The shifting sand dunes in this area,
combined with the construction activities, might have revealed some
cultural remains of the earlier periods. Such was found not to be the
case and no archeological manifestations were noted. ‘This reservoir
area can be written off as completed.

The second Missouri Basin Project field party consisted of a crew
of nine under the direction of Robert W. Neuman. This party began
work on June 6 in the construction area of the Big Bend Reservoir
(actually the upper reaches of the Fort Randall Reservoir) at site ©
39BF225. At that location there is a group of three low burial
mounds situated on the terrace just west of the Talking Crow site
(39BF3) in Buffalo County, S. Dak. By the end of the fiscal year
Neuman had trenched two of these mounds and found three compo-
nents present: (a) Historie with coffin burials, (b) the mound com-
ponent with secondary pit burials, and (c) a premound, nonceramic
component.

The third Missouri Basin Project field party of the season was
composed of a crew of 10 directed by Dr. Warren W. Caldwell. It
began work on June 13 at the Pretty Head site (839LM232). This
site is located on the right bank of the Missouri River, 4 miles above
the Big Bend Dam site in Lyman County, S. Dak. By the end of the
year excavations were well under way in several middens, and in the
remains of one long-rectangular house.

The fourth Missouri Basin Project field party of the 1961 season
was a crew of 10 directed by Dr. Robert L. Stephenson. This party
began work on June 19 in the upper reaches of the Oahe Reservoir in
Corson County, S. Dak., on the west side of the Missouri River some 5
miles south of Mobridge. There a series of small sites extending from
the Blue Blanket Island site (839WW9) downstream into Dewey
County to site 89 W232 was to be investigated with intensive exca-
vations at the Potts Village site (89CO19) and the Le Compte Creek
site (89DW234). The latter are the remains of circular house vil-
lages with fortifications and suggest a possible link between the later
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

part of the long-rectangular-house period and the earlier part of the
circular-house period. ‘The two main sites each appear to have a
single bastion in the fortification system. Excavations were well
underway by the end of the year.

Cooperating institutions working in the Missouri Basin at the be-
ginning of the fiscal year included five field parties from State agen-
cies in North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Missouri.
W. Raymond Wood of the University of Oregon had a crew at work
for the State Historical Society of North Dakota at the Huff site
(32M011) in the upper reaches of the Oahe Reservoir some 18 miles
below Mandan, N. Dak. Wood’s party excavated eight houses and 200
feet of palisade, and cross-sectioned the fortification ditch. This was
the location of a fortified, bastioned village of long-rectangular houses
with the houses loosely arranged in rows. One unusual house was
nearly square and had four center posts comparable to the circular
houses of other sites. Dr. Preston Holder of the University of Ne-
braska had a crew at work at the Leavenworth site (89C09), 7 miles
north of Mobridge in Corson County, S. Dak., in the Oahe Reservoir.
This site, visited by Lewis and Clark in 1804 and attacked by Col.
Henry Leavenworth in 1823, was an Arikara village (or pair of
villages) of circular houses. Holder’s crew excavated four houses and
tested several midden areas. Dr. Wesley R. Hurt, Jr., with a Uni-
versity of South Dakota crew, spent July and August excavating
portions of the No Heart Creek site (89AR2) in old Armstrong
County on the right bank of the Missouri River in the Oahe Reservoir.
This small, compact, fortified, La Roche-type village had an unusual
series of small bastions and entryways. Thomas A. Witty with a crew
from the Kansas State Historical Society excavated four sites and
tested several others in the Wilson Reservoir area on the Saline River
in Russell and Lincoln Counties, Kans. All four excavated sites re-
late to the Central Plains Phase. Dr. Car] H. Chapman had a Uni-
versity of Missouri crew in the field surveying and testing sites in the
Kasinger Bluff Reservoir on the Osage River in Henry, Benton, and
St. Clair Counties, west-central] Missouri.

At the end of the fiscal year six field parties representing four
cooperating institutions were in the field in the Missouri Basin. Dr.
Preston Holder was back at the Leavenworth site (89C09) in the Oahe
Reservoir for a second season of work by the University of Nebraska.
Dr. Carl H. Chapman was back at the Kasinger Bluff Reservoir in
Missouri with a University of Missouri field party surveying and
testing sites in that area. In addition, Chapman had a survey crew
at work in the Stockton Reservoir area in Cedar and Dade Counties,
Mo. Thomas A. Witty had a crew at work excavating the Woods
site (14C Y30) and testing several other sites in the Milford Reservoir
on the Republican River in Geary County, Kans., for the Kansas
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

State Historical Society. Dr. Wesley R. Hurt had a crew at work
by boat, testing several sites being exposed by wave action along the
shores of Lewis and Clark Lake (Gavins Point) and Fort Randall
Reservoirs, for the University of South Dakota. Roger T. Grange had
a crew from the Nebraska State Historical Society at work in the
Red Willow Reservoir area in Frontier County, southwestern Ne-
braska, excavating two sites near the dam construction area. All
the parties mentioned above were operating under agreements with
the National Park Service and were cooperating with the Smithsonian
Institution in the research program.

During the time that the archeologists were not in the field they
were engaged in the analysis of their materials and in the laboratory
and library research. They also prepared manuscripts of technical
scientific reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular
nature.

The Missouri Basin Chronology Program, begun by the staff arche-
ologists of the Missouri Basin Project in January 1958, continued to
operate and made considerable progress throughout the year. Con-
tinued cooperation and participation by more than 30 individuals
representing 30 research institutions throughout the Plains area has
been rewarding. This year major emphasis was placed upon the
dendrochronological section of the program. Harry E. Weakly of
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Dr. Warren W. Caldwell of the
Missouri Basin Project, and Ward Weakly of the University of Ne-
braska concentrated the tree-ring studies on a limited area along the
Missouri River between Fort Thompson and the Cheyenne River in
South Dakota. This takes in all the Big Bend Reservoir area and the
lower portions of the Oahe Reservoir. A master chart has been
constructed for this area using oak, ash, and cedar, that extends from
the present back to A.D. 13802. Archeological wood, mainly cedar
house posts, from a number of sites has been dated by the master
chart. The dates look good, and in general correlate well with other
chronological data, but until further checks have been made, release
of these dates would be premature. In addition to the master chart,
a “floating” sequence of nearly 300 years has been constructed, based
upon timbers from houses of the Over Focus and the Thomas Riggs
Focus. There also appears to be a high degree of correlation between
the South Dakota master chart and the several charts that have been
previously developed for areas of Nebraska.

The radioactive carbon-14 section of the program has continued
to develop, and in conjunction with the University of Michigan Memo-
rial Phoenix Laboratory, under the direction of Prof. H. R. Crane,
a series of four new dates has been released. Sample M[-1079a, char-
coal from a house post of the late component at the Crow Creek site
(89BF11) in the Fort Randall Reservoir, S. Dak., excavated by
SECRETARY’S REPORT 69

Marvin F. Kivett for the Nebraska State Historical Society as a part
of the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program, gave a date of
560+150 years ago. Sample M-1050a, charcoal from Feature 4 of
the Good Soldier site (89L.M238) in the Big Bend Reservoir of South
Dakota, gave a date of 2,380+150 years ago. This sample was
excavated by Robert W. Neuman of the Missouri Basin Project staff.
Sample M-1081, charcoal from zone D of the Logan Creek site
(25BT3) in northeastern Nebraska, excavated by Marvin F. Kivett
for the Nebraska State Historical Society, gave a date of 7,250+300
years ago. Sample M-1082, wood from a house post in a small long-
rectangular house (F. 2) of the Fay Tolton site (89ST11) in the
Oahe Reservoir, gave a date of 860+150 years ago. This sample was
excavated by Dr. Donald D. Hartle, then of the Missouri Basin Project
staff. An experiment in the decontamination of charcoal treated with
paraflin failed completely. A log, one end of which had been coated
with paraffin and the other end not so treated, had had the treated
end deparafiined and both sections were run for carbon-14 analysis.
The two dates from the same piece of charred wood were several cen-
turies apart.

The laboratory and office staff spent its full effort during the year
in processing specimen materials for study, photographing and il-
lustrating specimens, preparing specimen records, and typing, filing,
and illustrating record and manuscript materials. Accomplishments
of the laboratory and office staff are listed in tables 1 and 2.

The Missouri Basin Project staff archeologists and archeologists
of the National Park Service and cooperating States agencies working
in the Missouri Basin met on July 30 in a roundtable field conference
in Pierre, S. Dak. This 1714th Plains Conference, now a regular
summer event, and a supplement to the annual Thanksgiving Plains
Conference, was devoted to discussions of current fieldwork and
technical problems of field identifications. During the Thanksgiving
weekend, members of the staff participated in the 18th Plains Confer-
ence for Archeology, held in Norman, Okla. On April 14, members
of the staff participated in the seventy-first annual meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln.

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, Chief, devoted a large part of his time
during the year to managing the office and laboratory in Lincoln and
preparing plans and budgets for the 1961 field season. He compiled
a 7-volume summary of construction data and archeological work in
all the 789 named reservoir sites in the Missouri Basin for use in fu-
ture planning in the Lincoln office. He completed the revision of a
large technical monograph, “The Accokeek Creek Site: A Middle
Atlantic Seaboard Culture Sequence,” previously accepted as his doc-
toral dissertation at the University of Michigan, and continued with
preliminary analysis of materials he recovered from the excavations
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

at the Sully site (89SL4) in the Oahe Reservoir in 1956-57-58. He
also continued work on a monograph reporting the “Archeological
Investigations in the Whitney Reservoir, Texas,” and two smaller
manuscripts, all nearing completion at the end of the year. Through-
out the year he served as chairman of the Missouri Basin Chronology
Program; as assistant editor of “Notes and News in the Plains Area,”
for American Antiquity; and as associate editor for the Plains An-
thropologist. At the 18th Plains Conference, held in Norman, Okla.,
on Thanksgiving weekend, he served as chairman of the session on
“Field Reports” and as a panel discussant for the session on “The
Aksarben Aspect.”

Dr. Stephenson presented a paper, “The Housing Problem,” at the
seventy-first annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences
in Lincoln on April 14. During the year he wrote a number of book
reviews for various scientific journals. He also wrote a brief article,
“Comments on ‘Relationships between the Caddoan Area and the
Plains’ by Robert FE. Bell,” for publication in the Bulletin of the Texas
Archeological Society. On May 7 he was the guest speaker at the
annual meeting of the Iowa Archeological Society, talking on the
subject, “Drowning Our Heritage.” Throughout the year he gave
seven other talks on various aspects of Missouri Basin Salvage
Archeology before regular meetings of local civic organizations and
school groups. In July he drove to Moscow, Idaho, to deliver a load
of archeological specimens from the Missouri Basin to Dr. Alfred
Bowers of the University of Idaho and to consult with Dr. Bowers on
the analysis of the material. While there he met with the executive
dean of the University of Idaho to confer on problems involved in
anthropological programs in the University. In May he was invited
to Accokeek, Md., as a consultant to the Accokeek Foundation on an
archeological research program for the Accokeek area. He took
annual leave to serve as part-time assistant professor of anthropology
on the faculty of the University of Nebraska during both the first and
second semesters of the academic year. At the end of the year he was
conducting investigations in prehistoric Indian village sites in the
Oahe Reservoir area.

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, when not in charge of field
parties, devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials
he had recovered from salvage excavations in previous years. He
completed final revisions of his manuscript “Archeological Investi-
gations at the Hickey Brothers Site, 39LM4, Lyman County, South
Dakota,” in collaboration with Lee G. Madison and Bernard Golden;
and of the manuscript “The Garrison Dam and Reservoir,” in collab-
oration with G. Hubert Smith. He continued the detailed analysis
of materials from the Black Partizan site (891.M218) in the Big Bend
Reservoir, S. Dak., and in collaboration with Harry E. Weakly con-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 71

tinued work on the dendrochronological materials from the Big Bend
and Oahe Reservoirs of South Dakota. In May he consulted with
Dr. Douglas Osborne of the National Park Service regarding com-
plete revision and expansion of his monograph, “The Archeology of
Wakemap; A Stratified Site near the Dalles of the Columbia,” for
publication in the National Park Service series. He also completed
“Dendrochronology and the Missouri Basin Chronology Program,”
which was published in Zhe 7’ree Ring Bulletin, vol. 23, No. 3. In
addition, he wrote several book reviews. On July 30 he served as
chairman of the 1714th Plains Conference in Pierre, S. Dak., and
over Thanksgiving weekend he gave a report on his current fieldwork
at the 18th Plains Conference in Norman, Okla. On April 14 he pre-
sented a paper at the seventy-first annual meeting of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences held in Lincoln, entitled “Some Thoughts on
Guns and Indians.” During the year he continued to serve as chair-
man of the dendrochronology section of the Missouri Basin Chronol-
ogy Program; as assistant editor for reviews and literature for the
Plains Anthropologist, and as Plains collaborator for the Society for
American Archeology publication, Abstracts of New World Archae-
ology. On annual leave he continued to serve as part-time assistant
professor of anthropology on the faculty of the University of Ne-
braska. At the end of the year he was again engaged in excavating
archeological sites in the Big Bend Reservoir area.

Robert W. Neuman, archeologist, when not in the field conducting
excavations, was analyzing archeological materials he had previously
excavated in the Big Bend Reservoir area. He completed four man-
uscripts and had them accepted for publication: “The Olson Mound
(39BF223) in Buffalo County, South Dakota”; “Salvage Arche-
ology at a Site near Fort Thompson, South Dakota”; “A Bibliog-
raphy of Archeological References Relating to the Central and North-
ern Great Plains Prior to 1930”; and “Domesticated Corn from a Fort
Walton Mound in Houston County, Alabama.” The first three will
be published in the Plains Anthropologist; the fourth in the Florida
Anthropologist. An article, “Indian Burial Mounds in the Upper
Missouri River Basin,” was published in Progress of the Interior
Missouri Basin Field Committee. During the year he served as chair-
man of the carbon-14 section of the Missouri Basin Chronology Pro-
gram. On Thanksgiving weekend he presented two papers at the
18th Plains Conference in Norman, Okla., entitled “Excavations at
Four Mound Sites in the Oahe Reservoir” and “The Brother of All
Document, 1888.” During late April and early May he drove to
Washington, D.C., and Knoxville, Tenn., to deliver a load of Missouri
Basin archeological specimens and to confer with archeologists at
both cities. At the end of the year he was again in the field conduct-
ing archeological excavations.

625325626
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

. G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, after completing his fieldwork in
August, was on duty the remainder of the year in the Lincoln office
analyzing materials and preparing reports of work previously ac-
complished at historic sites in the Missouri Basin. His principal
effort was directed toward preparation of a large monograph com-
bining his own and several other investigators’ work at the site of
Fort Berthold and Like-a-Fishhook Village (832ML2) in the Garrison
Reservoir, and by the end of the year he was well along on this manu-
script. He also prepared an article, “Historical Archeology in the
Missouri Basin Reservoir Areas,” that was published in the Plains
Anthropologist in November, and wrote (in collaboration with War-
ren W. Caldwell) a manuscript, “The Garrison Dam and Reservoir,”
for publication by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Throughout
the year he served as assistant editor for historic sites archeology for
the Plains Anthropologist and as chairman of the historic documenta-
tion section of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. He partici-
pated in the 18th Plains Conference, held in Norman, Okla., over
Thanksgiving weekend with a report of his current field activities.
On September 23-24 he participated as a discussant at the “Confer-
ence on Historic Buildings and Sites” at Iowa State University at
Ames. On January 26-28, at the annual meeting of the Society of
Architectural Historians, in Minneapolis, Minn., he presented an illus-
trated paper on “Frontier Buildings on the Upper Missouri,” and on
May 20 a similar paper, “Early Historic Buildings in the Missouri
Basin,” at the annual meeting of the Nebraska Association of Archi-
tects, held in Lincoln. On April 14 he spoke at the seventy-first
annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln on
“Karly Historic Sites and Buildings on the Upper Missouri: Some
Problems of Evidence.” At the close of the year he was at work in
the Lincoln office on his monograph on site 832ML2.

TABLE 1.—Specimens processed July 1, 1960—June 80, 1961

Number of Catalog Number of

Reservoir sites numbers specimens

assigned processed
Bigupends2 sees. Soho yedhs ee Oe ee ee 6 496 2,161
Honrtprandall eu2 see eee a ee UE cael 3 be i 83 1, 339
WtbieLui GeOnee. 2.92 ea oe 57 2, 341 24, 101
MRenwasusur Gl Oh) or es eee oe ee ee 1 25 135
COX AT EG 5 are Sgt yet Aone ia yeas a eR ee) 15 2, 417 8, 145
SitesmMObrInreSeLVOITSs== eae ee eee eee 3 151 226
Sitestovals: c= oe ee ea ee meter 83 Dols 36, 107
Collections not assigned site numbers_-_----- 1 3 46

Combined totals sy sche 2 a See 84 5, 516 36, 153

SECRETARY’S REPORT 73

As of June 30, 1961, the Missouri Basin Project had cataloged
1,255,716 specimens from 2,141 numbered sites and 59 collections not
assigned site numbers.

Specimens restored: Two pottery vessels and one vessel section.
Specimens repaired: Fourteen nonpottery artifacts.
Specimens transferred to other agencies:
To the United States National Museum:
Archeological specimens from 425 sites in 10 reservoir areas.
Unworked shell from 16 sites in three reservoir areas.
To the University of Nebraska State Museum:
Identified, unworked animal bone from 120 sites in seven reservoir areas.

TABLE 2.—Record material processed July 1, 1960—June 30, 1961
MISSOURI BASIN PROJECT

RevexZcopies Of: PECOTdS ss 2 2 Aes a oe aes ee ee ee ee 8, 465
Photographic mecativess mad ee 226 ts Lae 2 ee ee ee 1, 507
Bhocographi Ogprintsa mad C2 2 eee ye ee ee See eee ee eee 8, 916
iPhoerosraphicaprints- mounted: and Miled=222= See eee eee ee 1, 894
Transparencies Mounted riNl Class = \ 2s ee eee ee eee 498
Kodachrome pictures taken invlab==—2 =. 2s Ue a ee 160
Cartographic tracings:and! drawings = see 2 ee 2 eee ee 66
PATCIEACESRSKELCHEGee ke eT SRR ae eS Sed ee A as 45
PTAC SET e Tel emmee naset De Nae ee Be A ye A Be Ab SY ee 40
Bro nlesta rewire as oe ie et eR eT eee ae oe eee at 11
Pintedayouts made for manuscriptses eee eee een eens 12

Cooperating institutions—During the fiscal year a number of insti-
tutions cooperated in the Inter-Agency Salvage Program in several
areas. In addition to those previously mentioned in the sections per-
taining to Alabama-Georgia and the Missouri Basin, the following
work was carried on under agreements with the National Park
Service:

The University of Arkansas made studies in the Beaver Reservoir
area on the White River and the Millwood Reservoir on Little River.
The University of Kentucky conducted investigations in the Nolin
Reservoir area on the Nolin River. The University of North Carolina
worked at the Wilkesboro Reservoir on the Yadkin River. The Uni-
versity of Tennessee carried on activities in the Milton Hill Reservoir
on the Clinch River. The Carnegie Museum of Pittsburgh studied
archeological manifestations in the Shenango Reservoir area on the
Shenango River. The New Jersey State Museum conducted inves-
tigations at Tocks Island. The University of Illinois had a project
at the Shelbyville Reservoir on the Kaskaskia River, and Southern
Illinois University made a series of excavations in the Carlyle Res-
ervoir Basin on the same river. The Wisconsin State Historical
Society conducted investigations in the Kickapoo Reservoir area on
the Kickapoo River. The University of Texas carried on a series of
surveys in the Texas Gulf Project. The Kansas State Historical
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Society excavated in the Council Grove Reservoir on the Grand
(Neosho) River. The University of Arizona continued its investiga-
tions in the Painted Rock area on the Gila River. The Museum of
Northern Arizona continued its studies in the Glen Canyon Reservoir
area on the Colorado River, as did the University of Utah in the same
area and in the Flaming Gorge and Plainfield Reservoir Basins.
The Museum of New Mexico worked in the Navajo Reservoir area
along the San Juan River. The College of the Sequoias conducted
investigations in the Terminus Reservoir area on the Kaweah River
in California. Idaho State College worked in the Bruce’s Eddy area
on the North Fork of the Clearwater River. Washington State Col-
lege continued its excavations in the Lower Monumental and Ice
Harbor areas along the Columbia River and the University of Wash-
ington worked on the Priest Rapids-Wanapum Project in the Middle
Columbia River district. The University of Oregon investigated
sites in the John Day Reservoir Basin on the John Day River. Several
institutions volunteered to carry on survey work without an agreement
with the National Park Service. They include groups in Pennsylvania,
New York State, Ohio, Indiana, southern California, and West
Virginia. In the latter State the West Virginia Geological Survey
did reconnaissance work in the Summerville Reservoir area on the
Gauley River.

ARCHIVES

The Bureau archives continued under the custody of Mrs. Margaret
C. Blaker, archivist. In May 1961 Mrs. Blaker visited the Haverford
College Library, Haverford, Pa., where she examined pictorial and
manuscript material in the Quaker Collection concerning American
Indians, and in June, visited the library of Hampton Institute, Hamp-
ton, Va., and examined an extensive collection of field and studio
photographs relating to Indians who were students at Hampton in
the period 1880-1900. On July 10, 1960, Mrs. Caroline R. Cohen
was appointed as junior anthropologist and was assigned to assist in
the archives.

MANUSCRIPT COLLECTIONS

The papers of Dr. Frans M. Olbrechts, relating to his studies of the
Cherokee Indians of North Carolina in 1926-31 when he was a col-
laborator of the Bureau, were transmitted to the Bureau archives
by Dr. Olbrechts’ widow, Mrs. Margriet Olbrechts of Wezembeek-
Oppem, Belgium, through Dr. A. E. Meeussen, Koninklijk Museum,
Tervuren, Belgium. Dr. Olbrechts died at Aix-la-Chapelle, March
24,1958. The subject matter of the papers consists of the following
categories: Vocabularies, grammar, texts, disease-name papers, Wilnoti
formula papers, botany, myths, and miscellaneous ethnographic notes.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

An 18-page inventory has been prepared, and the papers, which
occupy 28 boxes, are available for study and microfilming.

The manuscript collection continued to be utilized by anthropolo-
gists and other students. About 300 manuscripts were consulted by
searchers who visited the archives in person or purchased microfilm
and other reproductions totaling 7,146 pages. An equal number of
manuscripts was consulted by the archivist in obtaining information
for over 90 mail inquiries. In the course of this examination, new and
more detailed descriptions of manuscripts were also prepared for the
permanent catalog and for future distribution in response to specific
inquiries.

PHOTOGRAPHIC COLLECTIONS

The Bureau’s collection of North American Indian photographs,
which is one of the most extensive and most active of its kind, con-
tinued to grow through the generosity of interested individuals who
either lent pictures for copying, or presented them as gifts.

Sixty original photographs of Mesquakie Indians, mainly taken
by J. L. Hudson of Tama, Iowa, and apparently dating in part from
the 1860’s, were lent for copying by Norman Feder of New York City.
Mr. Feder also lent a series of about 40 copy prints of Prairie Pot-
tawotomie of the latter part of the 19th century.

Over 150 photographic slides of American Indian subjects were
received on loan from Mrs. Doris Collester of East Riverdale, Md.
Of especial interest are several dozen slides of Apache, Pima, and
Maricopa Indians dated 1871 or in years of the following decade.
Many of the slides bear the name of Moore, Bond & Co., Chicago or
Moore, Hubbell, & Co., Chicago, as distributor, although the original
source of most of the photographs is still unknown.

Forty-six photographs relating to Cree and Chipewyan Indians
in Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Mackenzie, Canada, taken by Dr.
Francis Harper on an expedition of the Geological Survey of Canada
to the Great Slave Lake in 1914 were obtained from the Geological
Survey of Canada, through the courtesy of Dr. Francis Harper and
Dr. J. M. Harrison, Director of the Survey.

A scrapbook of James Ear] Taylor, artist-correspondent for Frank
Leslie’s Illustrated Weekly Newspaper from 1863 to 1883, was re-
ceived as a gift from the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Com-
mission, through John Witthoft. The scrapbook contains several
hundred original photographic prints of western Indians, several
photographs of Army officers, linecuts of western military posts, and
other material assembled for the artist’s reference, as well as reproduc-
tions of a number of Taylor’s own illustrations.

Seventeen photographs of important men of the Osage, Caddo,
Arapaho, Cherokee, Creek, Chickasaw, and Seminole tribes were
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

borrowed for copying from the Quaker Collection, Haverford College
Library, Haverford, Pa., through the courtesy of Dr. Thomas E.
Drake. The portraits are all on similar mounts of the carte de visite
style, and most are inscribed with the subjects’ names and the dateline
September 1865, Fort Smith, Ark. Only one of the photographs has
a photographer’s imprint. It is a portrait of Left Hand and Powder
Face, Arapahoes, with Superintendent Enoch Hoag. On the reverse
is stamped, “W. H. Lamon, Photograph Artist, Corner Massachusetts
& Henry Sts., Lawrence, Kansas.” Four views of Kickapoo bark- and
mat-covered lodges in Chief Wapamashawa’s village, Indian Terri-
tory, were also borrowed from the Quaker collection and copied.

Thirteen photographs, including 10 relating to Kiowa, Wichita,
and Apache Indians, by Irwin of Chickasha, Indian Territory, 1892-
ca. 1894, were lent for copying by Vernon M. Riley of Chino, Calif.

Five photographs relating to Omaha and Ponca Indians of the
latter 19th century, and a group photograph of the officers of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science at Ann Arbor,
1885, including the Reverend J. Owen Dorsey and Mrs. Erminnie A.
Smith (both formerly associated with this Bureau) were lent for
copying by Mrs. Virginia Dorsey Lightfoot of Takoma Park, Md.

Five photographs of Osage Indians, taken in 1871 by T. M. Con-
cannon at the Osage Agency, Indian Territory, were received as a
gift from Mrs. Ernest J. Martin of Drain, Oreg.

Nine photographs relating to Indians of the Southwest who were
connected with projects of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in that
area in 1941-60 were donated by the Bureau of Reclamation.

Ten copy photographs of Ute Indians of the 1870’s and 1880’s were
received in exchange from Dr. Omer C. Stewart of Boulder, Colo.

Six recent photographs of Quapaw Indians of Oklahoma were pre-
sented by Mrs. Velma Nieberding of Miami, Okla.

A collection of between 100 and 200 mounted photographs and
glass slides was received as a transfer from the library of the United
States Department of the Interior. At year’s end these photographs
had not yet been arranged and individually listed. They relate to a
variety of North American Indian tribes.

During the year prints were prepared from several hundred snap-
shot negatives by Matilda Coxe Stevenson that had not been previously
cataloged. Most of the photographs were made at Zuni Pueblo, ca.
1904. They include numerous views relating to dances and cere-
monials and a lesser number pertaining to domestic activities. In
spite of the fact that some of the photographs are not of high quality
photographically, many are surprisingly clear and informative, and
the collection as a whole warrants careful study.

In addition to the Zufii views, in the Stevenson collections there
are a relatively small number of photographs relating to the pueblos
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ti

of Cochiti, ca. 1904, San Ildefonso, ca. 1908, and Santa Clara, ca.
1911. A 16-page caption list of the entire collection has been prepared.

The photographic files continued to be used extensively by scholars
and the general public. The year’s total of approximately 600 pur-
chase orders and written and personal inquiries concerning photo-
graphs is about equal to that of last year, while the total of over
2,000 prints distributed exceeds last year’s figure.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Work during the past fiscal year consisted of the preparation of
numerous charts, graphs, diagrams, and maps, the restoration of
photographs, photo retouching, and the drawing of a variety of
Indian artifacts. Also many miscellaneous drawings, diagrams, etc.,
were prepared for other branches of the Institution.

LIBRARY

Detailed information about the Bureau library is contained in the
report of the librarian on the Smithsonian Library, but it is well to
emphasize the fact that the Bureau library is still serving a useful
purpose in providing reference material not only for members of
the staff but for students and professionals in the Washington area
and visitors from other parts of the country. However, it should be
pointed out that the library is not wholly fulfilling the function that
it should because of the lack of a librarian. A full-time librarian
would not only greatly expedite the use of the facility by members
of the staff, but would also be extremely helpful to those who find it
necessary to consult publications in the Bureau library, many of
which are not available in many other places. Furthermore, through
an intimate knowledge of the material now available, a librarian would
be able to see that new publications pertaining to the Bureau’s
researches are acquired promptly when they become available. For
many years the Bureau library was one of the outstanding places in
North America for anthropological research, and it well merits a
return to its former status.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The Bureau’s editorial work continued during the year under the
immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. There were issued
one Annual Report and two Bulletins, as follows:

Seventy-seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1959-60.
1i+35 pp., 2 pls. 1961.
Bulletin 176. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 15-20, Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
editor. Ix-+337 pp., 65 pls., 25 figs. 1960.
No. 15. Historic sites archeology on the Upper Missouri, by Merrill J.
Mattes.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Bulletin 176—Continued

No. 16. Historie sites archeology in the Fort Randall Reservoir, South
Dakota, by John EB. Mills.

No. 17. The excavation and investigation of Fort Lookout Trading Post II

391LM57) in the Fort Randall Reservoir, South Dakota, by Carl F. Miller.

No. 18. Fort Pierre II (39S8T217), a historie trading post in the Oahe
Dam area, South Dakota, by G. Hubert Smith.

No. 19. Archeological investigations at the site of Fort Stevenson (82ML1),
Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota, by G. Hubert Smith. With an intro-
duction by Robert L. Stephenson and an appendix by Carlyle 8S. Smith.

No. 20. The archeology of a small trading post (82MN1) in the Garrison.
Reservoir (Kipp’s Post) South Dakota, by Alan R. Woolworth and W.
Raymond Wood.

Bulletin 180. Symposium on Cherokee and Iroquois culture, edited by William
N. Fenton and John Gulick. VI+292 pp. 1961.

No. 1. Foreword by the editors.

No. 2. Iroquois-Cherokee linguistic relations, by Floyd G. Lounsbury.

No. 3. Comment on Floyd G. Lounsbury’s “Iroquois-Cherokee Linguistic
Relations,” by Mary R. Haas.

No. 4. Iroquois archeology and settlement patterns, by William A. Ritchie.

No. 5. First comment on Wlliam A. Ritchie’s “Iroquois Archeology and
Settlement Patterns,” by William H. Sears.

No. 6. Second comment on William A. Ritchie’s “Iroquois Archeology and
Settlement Patterns,’ By Douglas 8. Byers.

No. 7. Cherokee archeology, by Joffre L. Coe.

No. 8. Comment on Joffre L. Coe’s “Cherokee Archeology,” by Charles H.
Fairbanks.

No. 9. Eastern Woodlands community typology and acculturation, by. John
Witthoft.

No. 10. Comment on John Witthoft’s “Eastern Woodlands Community
Typology and Acculturation,” by John M. Goggin.

No. 11. Cherokee economic cooperatives: the Gadugi, by Raymond D. Fogel-
son and Paul Kutsche.

No. 12. The rise of the Cherokee state as an instance in a class: The
“Mesopotamian” career to statehood, by Fred O. Gearing.

No. 13. Comment on Fred O. Gearing’s “The Rise of the Cherokee State as
an Instance in a Class: The ‘Mesopotamian’ Career to Statehood,” by
Annemarie Shimony.

No. 14. Cultural composition of the Handsome Lake religion, by Anthony
F.C. Wallace.

No. 15. Comment on Anthony F. C. Wallace’s “Cultural Composition of
the Handsome Lake Religion,” by Wallace L. Chafe.

No. 16. The Redbird Smith movement, by Robert K. Thomas.

No. 17. Comment on Robert K. Thomas’s ‘The Redbird Smith Movement,”
by Fred W. Voget.

No. 18. Effects of environment on Cherokee-Iroquois ceremonialism, music,
and dance, by Gertrude P. Kurath.

No. 19. Comment on Gertrude P. Kurath’s “Effects of Environment on
Cherokee-Iroquois Ceremonialism, Music, and Dance,” by William C.
Sturtevant.

No. 20. The Iroquois fortunetellers and their conservative influence, by
Annemarie Shimony.

No. 21. Change, persistence, and accommodation in Cherokee medico-
magical beliefs, by Raymond D. Fogelson.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 79

Bulletin 180—Continued

No. 22. Some observations on the persistence of aboriginal Cherokee per-
sonality traits, by Charles H. Holzinger.

No. 23. First comment on Charles H. Holzinger’s “Some Observations on
the Persistence of Aboriginal Cherokee Personality Traits,” by David
Landy.

No. 24. Second comment on Charles H. Holzinger’s “Some Observations on
the Persistence of Aboriginal Cherokee Personality Traits,” by John
Gulick.

No. 25. Iroquoian culture history: A general evaluation, by William N.
Fenton.

Publications distributed totaled 29,845, as compared with 31,547 for

the fiscal year 1960.
COLLECTIONS

The following collections were made by staff members of the Bureau
of American Ethnology or of the River Basin Surveys and transferred
to the permanent collections of the department of science and tech-
nology, the department of civil history, and the department of an-
thropology, U.S. National Museum:

FROM BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Acc. No.
236067. Dictaphone. Through Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.
234469. 31 Belgian postage stamps. Through Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker.

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

225806. 160 land and fresh-water mollusks from Arkansas and South Dakota.
Through Dr. Robert L. Stephenson.

232081. Indian skeletal remains from Big Bend Reservoir, Buffalo County,
S. Dak.

232741. 5,153 archeological items and skeletal material from Fall River County,
S. Dak., and Crook and Fremont Counties, Wyo., 1957.

233812. Indian skeletal materials from the McNary Reservoir region.

MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Dr. John P. Harrington, Dr. A. J. Waring, and
Sister Inez Hilger continued as research associates. Dr. Stirling, as-
sisted by Mrs. Marion Stirling, using the Bureau’s laboratory facili-
ties, completed work on the materials from the Ecuadorian field trip
undertaken while he was Director of the Bureau, and turned in a
manuscript which will be published in the Bureau’s series of anthro-
pologica] papers.

The following bibliographies and leaflets were issued during the
fiscal year:

SIL-50, 3d rev., 2/61: Selected list of portraits of prominent Indians in the
collections of the Bureau of American Ethnology.
SIL-53, rey., 2/61: Photographic collections of the Bureau of American

Ethnology.

SIL-76, rev., 7/60: Statement regarding the Book of Mormon.
SIL-$2, rev., 1/61: Origin of the American Indian.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

SIL-134, rev., 10/60: American Indian languages.
SIL-175, rev., 3/61: Selected references on present-day conditions among U.S.

Indians.

SIL-264, 11/60: Selected references on the Indian and the Frontier.
SIL-276, 1/61: Linguistic considerations in the interpretation of place names.

Other bibliographies were revised during the year. They are: the
“Battle of the Little Bighorn” (should be available for distribution
by September 1961), and the popular “Bibliography of American In-
dian Medicine” (available before December 1961.)

The nearly 3,900 letters received in the Director’s office plus a few
hundred received by staff members are a good indication of the con-
tinued interest in the American Indian. In addition, several thou-
sand letters requesting Bureau publications are received yearly in the
Editorial and Publications Division. Many complete sets of the Bu-
reau’s bibliographies were sent out upon requests from college and
university professors and libraries, and to other educational organiza-
tions. Approximately 10,200 informational items, including type-
script and printed articles, bibliographies, and other leaflets, plus more
than 800 photographic lists were mailed from the main Bureau office
in response to requests for such materials. Many specimens were
mailed in or brought to the office for identification and data on them
were supplied.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Sintthsonian Institution.
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
operations of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the fis-
cal year ended June 30, 1961:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two divisions: the Divi-
sion of Astrophysical Research in Cambridge, for the study of solar
and other types of energy impinging on the earth; and the Division
of Radiation and Organisms in Washington, for the investigation of
radiation as it relates directly or indirectly to biological problems.
Shops are maintained in Washington for work in metals, woods, and
optical electronics, and to prepare special equipment for both divi-
sions; and a shop conducted in cooperation with the Harvard Col-
lege Observatory in Cambridge provides high-precision mechanical
work. The field station at Table Mountain, Calif., carries out solar
observations. Twelve satellite-tracking stations are in operation,
in Florida, Hawaii, and New Mexico in the United States and abroad
in Argentina, Australia, Curagao, India, Iran, Japan, Peru, South
Africa, and Spain.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The Observatory research staff made significant contributions to
knowledge of solar astrophysics, meteors, meteorites, artificial satel-
lites, geophysics, and space science. The continuing refinement of
observational techniques and the development of new analytical
methods provided valuable data and opened up new areas of astro-
physical investigation.

The Observatory continued, with mutual benefit, its close liaison
with Harvard College Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Boston University, and other research centers.

Solar astrophysics —Dr. Paul W. Hodge studied the properties of
the field stars and globular clusters in the Large Magellanic Cloud
and found that they apparently differ from our galaxy in color, mag-
nitudes, luminosity, and evolutionary pattern. These findings are
important in establishing the true extragalactic distance scale.

Stephen E. Strom completed his study of absorption below 100 A.
to determine the optical depth of the interstellar medium as a func-
tion of wavelength in the X-ray region. He found that the region
above 40 A. is essentially “black” (in terms of presently conceived
fluxes) and that, owing to the K-absorption limit of oxygen, there is

81
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

an interesting “jump” at 23.3 A. in the curve of optical depth versus
wavelength.

Dr. Charles A. Whitney continued his research in stellar atmos-
pheres. From computations, based on novel analytical methods,
carried out by Angelo J. Skalafuris, he has formulated a simplified
analytical description of the cooling rate behind shock waves. This
work corrects the erroneous results of an earlier investigator, and
also serves to check the range of validity of assumptions of “optically
thin” perturbations (i.e, neglect of reabsorption of shock radiation).
In his investigation of the gas dynamics of stellar atmospheres, aiso
assisted by Mr. Skalafuris, he is concentrating initially on the struc-
ture of shock fronts in pure hydrogen, and in successive stages will
work toward a unified theory incorporating the effects of radiation
and the wide departures from thermodynamic equilibrium. Dr.
Whitney’s continuing project on the cause and nature of stellar pul-
sation has closely approached a definitive statement of the cause of
pulsation aided by the success of Dr. John P. Cox, who served as
consultant, in obtaining exact solutions for the nonadiabatic linear-
ized wave equation. Miss Sylvia Boyd began compilation of spec-
trographic and photometric data on pulsating stars, which will un-
dergo analysis in the light of the Cox-Whitney theory; Dr. R. G.
Teske’s investigation, under Dr. Whitney’s supervision, of spectrum-
line formation in pulsating stellar atmospheres indicates the need
for revision of earlier interpretations.

To provide a foundation for the analysis of astrophysical data ex-
pected from future orbiting observatories, Dr. Whitney began pre-
liminary work on methods of constructing accurate model stellar at-
mospheres. Using electronic computations provided by SAO,
he is extending and modifying recent theoretical developments, in-
cluding the work of Dr. Max Krook and his students. Owen Gin-
gerich’s completed computer program for the construction of accu-
rate model atmospheres in radiative equilibrium has demonstrated the
inadequacy of much earlier work in solar radiation and its implica-
tions for the model of the sun’s atmosphere. Shiv Kumar has vir-
tually completed the construction of several models for the atmos-
phere of very hot stars.

Dr. Richard McCrosky, with the use of infrared-sensitive detectors
on the 61-inch telescope of the Harvard College Observatory, con-
tinues his observations of Raman-scattered Lyman a to determine the
presence of hydrogen molecules in interstellar space.

Dr. Max Krook is proceeding with his theoretical research into the
further development and application of methods for determining the
structure of nongray atmospheres. In collaboration with Dr. Whit-
ney, he is now calculating a number of model atmospheres. He is
also applying the methods developed in continuum theories in gas
SECRETARY’S REPORT 83

dynamics to problems of the flow of rarefied gases, various problems
in the dynamics of ionized gases, and the exact solution of one-di-
mensional problems in the kinetic theory of gases.

Fred A. Franklin made progress in his dynamical] and photomet-
ric studies of the rings of Saturn and of the interaction between the
rings and particles of the solar corpuscular stream. The results
should apply to other astronomical problems and should yield pre-
cise values of the solar corpuscular flux.

At the Table Mountain station, Dr. Alfred G. Froiland, employ-
ing the atmospheric coefficients obtained by Smithsonian work, de-
vised a method for determining the ozone in the vertical path.

Meteoritical studies —The Director and Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia com-
pleted their analysis and discusssion of the orbits of 413 accurately
reduced meteors. Dr. Jacchia will continue his study of the reduced
material.

The Director has been investigating the distribution of semimajor
axes among comet orbits and has derived the following law for the
frequency distribution of lifetimes of long-period comets: Potential
lifetimes of new comets are distributed according to the negative
three-halves power of the lifetime in number of revolutions. His theo-
ries on the structure of the cometary nucleus will form a chapter in a
forthcoming book on the solar system. From rocket, satellite, and
space-probe data the Director completed a study of the influx of mi-
crometeoritic dust on earth. The work adds significantly to knowl-
edge of the structure and evolution of the solar system and has prac-
tical importance for the engineering and operation of space vehicles.

Robert E. Briggs is continuing his study of the distribution of in-
terplanetary dust particles in space. This work should provide
valuable data for current and future research on the nature of inter-
planetary space and the origin and properties of the dust particles.

Dr. John A. Wood has been conducting a study of variations in
chemical composition between individual chondrules extracted from
a chondrite (Bjurbéle). He is analyzing these small chondrules
with a direct-current arc emission spectrograph. He has also been
making a theoretical analysis of the diffusion of nickel in the nickel-
iron phases of iron meteorites, to determine cooling rates and ther-
mal histories which could account for the curious nonequilibrium
nickel concentration profiles noted by Uhlig and others in irons.
His brief analysis and description of the new meteorite Ras Tanura
(Saudi Arabia) is being prepared for publication.

Dr. E. L. Fireman, Dr. David Tilles, and James DeFelice meas-
ured the radioactive isotopes tritium and argon-37 in recovered
satellite material. The tritium content of some material from the
Discoverer XVII satellite was unusually high but decreased rapidly
with increasing depth. Discoverer XVII was exposed to an intense
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

solar flare (3+ magnitude). The high tritium content and its
depth dependence in the satellite material lead to the conclusion that
the solar flare contains 0.4 percent tritium. This is the first meas-
urement of a radioactive isotope from the sun.

Dr. Fireman completed measurements of argon-37, argon-39, and
tritium in several freshly fallen meteorites, and showed that the
cosmic-ray flux is higher at a distance of one astronomical unit from
the earth than at three. He has also obtained preliminary measure-
ments on radioactive isotopes in the Bruderheim meteorite. His
analysis of uranium, potassium, argon-140, and krypton-xenon in
iron meteorites will help determine the age and early history of the
meteorites.

Dr. Paul W. Hodge continues his study of the rate of accretion by
the earth of meteoritic matter and will determine especially the
physical and chemical properties of fine dust particles collected by
jet aircraft at altitudes varying from 30,000 to 90,000 feet. Collec-
tions at even greater heights, up to 250,000 feet, will be attempted.

Dr. Richard E. McCrosky, with the collaboration of the Harvard
College Observatory, U.S. Air Force, Lincoln Laboratories, and Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration, continues his attempt
to reproduce the meteor phenomena by a study of artificial meteors.
The results should help calibrate the mass-luminosity scale of natural
meteors. From a project designed to recover a larger number of
meteorites as soon as possible after their fall, Dr. McCrosky will seek
data on the cosmic-ray intensity in the vicinity of the earth and
throughout the orbit of the meteorite. His findings will add to our
present inadequate knowledge of the numbers, masses, and orbits
of meteorites.

Dr. McCrosky continued his planning of a program to locate and
recover meteorites as soon as possible after their fall, by photograph-
ing meteors in flight and analyzing the photographic records to find
the place of fall. The program will also augment our knowledge
of the number, masses, and orbits of large meteors. Preliminary de-
sign of the stations is complete; the general location of the stations
in the network in the Midwest has been determined; and a machine
program for computation of impact points has been completed. The
program has not yet received financial support. In view of the
scientific results that can be expected from this project, it should be
funded as soon as possible.

Dr. F. Behn Riggs, Jr., designed and developed an electron probe
microanalyzer to make possible a point-by-point chemical analysis
of polished surfaces of sectioned meteorites without destruction of
samples. Analyses of micrometeorites, along with other experiments
in bringing the electron beam into the air, have resulted in a useful
evaluation of unsolved technical problems.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 85

Pedro E. Zadunaisky has begun an analysis of the motion of
Halley’s Comet in order to check current theories about the forces
perturbing the elliptic motion of a comet.

Opening a new field for study, Dr. Tilles will construct a high-
sensitivity mass spectrometer and from recovered satellite samples
will measure the isotopic composition of the gases in solar winds and
flares. He will also study the stable isotopes of noble gases in
meteorites and terrestrial rocks.

Satellite-tracking program.—The optical tracking of artificial satel-
lites with NASA support continues to provide data for the prediction
of orbits and for basic research in the space sciences. The program
comprises a worldwide organization of Moonwatch teams, the oper-
ation of 12 precision photographic stations in various parts of the
world, the calculation of satellite ephemerides, photographic image
reduction, detailed analysis by electronic computers, and precise
reduction of satellite positions.

From May 1, 1960, to May 1, 1961, Moonwatch observations of 57
satellites and their orbiting components provided data for correcting
ephemerides and for acquiring and reacquiring satellites. The sta-
tions also conducted a number of searches for orbiting objects.

Dr. Gustav A. Bakos’s analysis of Moonwatch observations indicates
that they compare favorably with those made by radar and with field
reduced observations by SPOT.

Major developments in operational techniques of the Baker-Nunn
camera stations were accomplished in two fields—the automation of
matched-track and off-culmination observing methods, and the design
and development of auxiliary equipment that enables the entire
network to be synchronized to within a few milliseconds of time.
These developments will prove extremely valuable in the forthcoming
research in geodesy using direct triangulation methods.

Specifications were drawn for a new electronic time standard for
the stations that would be capable of maintaining uniform and precise
time to an accuracy of one-half millisecond. This clock, which will
greatly improve observational accuracy, is unique in its field.

Five stations in the Baker-Nunn network worked in conjunction
with the Jodrell Bank Radio Telescope in making optical observations
of flare stars.

Of 138,556 films received from the Baker-Nunn camera stations, the
photoreduction center completed reductions of 8,961. From July
1960 through April 1961 the computations center sent 32,592 pre-
dictions to the 12 Baker-Nunn camera stations, 11,160 transits of
satellites were observed, and 14,361 reduced positions were reported.

The communications center cleared more than a million words per
month, 95 percent of which represent satellite data received or sent
throughout the world.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

The research and analysis division has made valuable contributions
to our basic knowledge of the earth and the upper atmosphere,
described in detail under Space Science. In summary, the division has
achieved greater accuracy in the analysis of the earth’s gravitational
potential field, established the gravitational ellipticity around the
earth’s equator, and determined the geodetic positions of the observing
stations with greater exactness. The division has measured variations
of atmospheric density in relation to solar activity and interplanetary
storms, and studied the effect of solar light pressure on satellites.

Dr. Karoly Lassovszky is continuing his astrometric study of satel-
lite positions determined from Baker-Nunn films. From approxi-
mately 800 measurements on 384 images of different length he
analyzed the frequency distribution of settings, the relationship
between this distribution and the length of the image, and the rela-
tionship between the “magnitude error” and the length of image.
Position determinations have been made using reference stars at dif-
ferent distances. On the basis of these results, we can conclude that
the accuracy is influenced neither by the distortion of the emulsion
nor by the optical distortion within an area of a diameter of 5 cm.
(5°8). The standard error of a position determined from numerous
measurements made with Mann comparators on Baker-Nunn films
is +11, both in right ascension and in declination. The project
should help evaluate the techniques of analysis and measurement
now used for the precise reduction of satellite data. Dr. Lassovszky
will also investigate the rapid and secular variations in brightness
of satellites.

At the Florence meeting of COSPAR, April 10-14, 1961, the Di-
rector and Dr. George Veis presented a paper on the Observatory’s
“Experience in Precision Optical Tracking of Satellites for Geodesy.”
The Baker-Nunn cameras can photograph satellites to an accuracy of
about +2’’ (seconds of arc) in topocentric position and +1 milli-
second in time. The locations of the cameras have been connected,
with standard geodetic techniques, to the major geodetic systems and
to a tentative uniform one. From an analysis of the observations,
geodetic information of dynamic character has been obtained; i.e.,
the coefficients of the second, third, fourth, and fifth order zonal
harmonics of the earth’s gravity field as well as the coefficients of the
second order sectorial harmonic. The launching of a well-planned and
controlled flashing-light geodetic satellite for international use would
reduce markedly the complexity and expense of observing stations
and promote international geodesy in a remarkable fashion.

Space science.—Imre G. Izsak, in the first attempt to derive two
important geophysical constants from the motion of satellites, has
made a good estimate of the ellipticity of the earth’s equator. He has
also obtained a second-order solution of Vinti’s dynamical problem.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

In his study of satellite orbits with very small eccentricities he has
found that the orbit has two perigees and two apogees during each
revolution. He is continuing his investigation of the harmonics of
the earth’s gravitational potential.

Dr. Don A. Lautman has undertaken a numerical integration pro-
gram to provide precise ephemerides of artificial satellites. He will
check general perturbation theories and attempt to obtain orbits of
satellites not at present subject to general theory, as well as of those
whose perturbations are too large or too complicated to be handled
conveniently by general perturbation theories.

Dr. Yoshihide Kozai has shown that the effects of solar-radiation
pressure must be considered in the derivation of geodetic constants
from satellite data. He is continuing his studies of astronomical con-
stants and of the geodetic uses of artifical satellites. By analysis of
deviations of computed orbits from those observed by Baker-Nunn
cameras, he is attempting to determine the tesseral harmonics of the
earth’s gravitational potential and to obtain accurate coordinates of
the camera stations. He will employ recently determined values from
the motion of satellites to examine the relations between astronomical
constants and to eliminate inconsistencies. Dr. Kozai’s determina-
tions from satellites of the spherical harmonics to the fifth order of the
earth’s gravitational field are generally accepted as the most precise
available.

Pedro E. Zadunaisky, from a preliminary study of atmospheric
drag on nonspherical satellites, has attempted to find a “mean” attitude
of satellites in relation to their velocity vectors. He will continue with
more refined techniques and a different group of satellites at higher
altitudes. His analysis will contribute to our knowledge of
atmospheric densities and of the motion of satellites around their
center of gravity. His special study of the perturbations on the orbit
of Echo I caused by atmospheric drag and solar-radiation pressure
gave good agreement between theory and observation.

Dr. Gustav A. Bakos is progressing with his analysis of the seasonal
changes of the earth’s albedo. The project has significance for our
understanding of the relationship which he has demonstrated between
large-scale meteorological phenomena and the observed reflectivity of
the earth.

Stephen E. Strom has developed the computer program and
preliminary ray-tracing method for the study of the effect of the
ionosphere on radio-astronomical] observations.

Dr. Mario D. Grossi, with these computations and tracings as tools,
will investigate the effect of the ionosphere, the Van Allen belts, and
the earth’s magnetic field on radio-astronomical observations in the
MF and HF bands.

625325—62——7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia’s studies of atmospheric drag on artificial
satellites have already contributed profoundly to our knowledge of
atmospheric densities above the height of 200 km. His conclusions as
to variations of the atmosphere with time, solar activity, and geo-
graphic position, as well as his determinations of the atmospheric
density profile, have received general international acceptance. He
will continue to explore the problems of solar-terrestrial effects.

Dr. G. Colombo has made a study of the motion of Explorer IV
(Satellite 1958 Epsilon) around its center of mass, as inferred from
observations of several kinds, and the possible causes of the strong
variations of the elements of the tangential precessional motion. A1|-
though a precise knowledge of the residual magnetization of the body
of the satellite and the ferromagnetic components of the payload is
needed for an exact computation, he draws attention to the unexpected
pronounced effect of the interaction between the earth’s magnetic field
and the shell (of stainless steel) of the satellite.

Dr. Leo Goldberg, with Dr. William Liller, is directing the design
and construction of two ultraviolet scanning spectrometers for flight
in the S-17 Satellite within the framework of the program of Orbit-
ing Solar Observatories of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. The combined spectral range of the spectrometers
will be 75 A. to 1500 A. and the resolving power will vary between 0.3
A. at the longer wavelengths and 1.0 A. at the shortest wavelengths.
Design of the spectrometers is now in the final stages. Calibration
and testing of the instrument packages will be carried out in a new
laboratory recently installed in the Space Science Building.

The work of the laboratory will also be expanded in the fall to
include a broad program of basic research on the vacuum ultraviolet
radiation of atoms and molecules of astrophysical importance with
one- and two-meter vacuum spectrographs and a shock tube and flash
tube as sources. The scanning spectrometers are scheduled for rocket
flights at the end of 1961 and for flight aboard the S-17 Satellite dur-
ing the last quarter of 1962.

Dr. Goldberg has been engaged in a study and survey of astro-
nomical experiments that may be performed with satellite vehicles.
The conclusions of the survey have been published in two chapters
of “Science in Space” in collaboration with Dr. E. R. Dyer, Jr.

The Director and Dr. Robert J. Davis, astrophysicist in charge,
together with other Observatory scientists, have progressed with the
planning and development of the “Celescope” project, a group of
astronomical telescopes to be carried in sounding rockets and later or-
bited in artificial earth satellites. Specifications for the satellite
payload (telescope system) have been prepared, and final negotiation
for the manufacture of the instruments is being awaited. With the
aid of television images in three colors and slitless spectrograms of the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 89

entire celestial sphere, these instruments will provide a means of ex-
tending astronomical observations to the far ultraviolet and X-ray re-
gions of the spectrum.

The immediate objective of the project is to map about 100,000
stars and record their brightnesses. Further analysis in special de-
tail of objects discovered by this survey is planned.

The first rocket flight carrying a prototype Celescope of simplified
design should confirm our theoretical analyses and test some of the
more critical elements of the Celescope’s electronic system. Experi-
ments have been delayed by rocket failure but should resume in
February 1962.

The payload for the satellite will consist of imaging television-type
detectors sensitive to certain ultraviolet spectra. ‘These video images
will be scanned and converted from analog to digital form prior to
signal transmission to ground stations to preserve all the important
stellar information. Models of this digital equipment have been de-
signed and built in Celescope laboratories and will serve as guides for
manufacturers building the satellite payload. The first telescope
should go into orbit in 1963-64. The Celescope program is supported
by NASA.

PUBLICATIONS

Publications of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics in-
cluded numbers 2 through 4 of volume 4 and numbers 4 through 8
of volume 5.

The following papers by staff members of the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory appeared in various journals:

ALLER, L. H. See Goldberg, Muller, and Aller.

Barz, A. V. A proposed X-ray telescope for the 1 to 100-A region. Journ.
Geophys. Res. vol. 65, pp. 3019-8020, 1960.

Brown, J. See Goldberg, Mohler, and Brown.

Davis, R. J. U.S. plans for space telescopes for planets, stars, and nebulae.
Mem. Soc. Roy. Sci. Liége, ser. 5, vol. 4, p. 25, 1961.

. See also Strom, Strom, and Davis.

DerFetice, J. See Fireman and DeFelice; Fireman, DeFelice, and Tilles;
Tilles, DeFelice, and Fireman.

Dyer, BF. R., Jz. See Goldberg and Dyer.

FIREMAN, E. L. See Tilles, DeFelice, and Fireman.

FrireMAN, BH. L., and DEFE ice, J. Argon-37, argon-39, and tritium in meteor-
ites and the spatial constancy of cosmic rays. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 65,
pp. 3035-8041, 1960.

FIREMAN, E. L.; DEFELice, J.; and Titres, D. Tritium in recovered satellite
material (abstract). Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc., vol. 6, No. 3, p. 276, 1961.

FireMan, BE. L., and Kistner, G. A. The nature of dust collected at high alti-
tudes. Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 23, No. 5, 1961.

GINGERICH, O. A computer program for non-grey stellar atmospheres. Mem.
Soc. Roy. Liége, ser. 5, vol. 4, 1960.

GoLpserc, L. Project West Ford—properties and analyses; Introduction.
Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 105-106, 1961.

90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Gotpsera, L. Solar experiments. Astron. Journ., vol. 65, pp. 274-277, 1960.

. Solar experiments—US. plans. Mem. Soc. Roy. Liége, ser. 5, vol. 4,

pp. 30-38, 1961.

The sun. Science in Space (Space Science Board Rep.), 1960.

The sun. Bull. Atomic Scientists, vol. 17, pp. 210-213, 1961.

Goxppera, L., and Dyer, BE. R., Jr. Galactic and extragalactic astronomy. Sci-
ence in Space (Space Science Board Rep.) , 1960.

The sun. Galactic and extragalactic astronomy. Jn Science in Space,
edited by L. V. Berkner and H. Odishaw, chaps. 17, 18, 1961.

Goxpgere, L.; Monier, W. U.; and Brown, J. The measurement of the local
doppler shift of the Fraunhofer lines. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 132, pp. 184-194,
1960.

Go.tpperec, L.; MuLLER, HE. A.; and ALLER, L. H. The abundance of the elements
in the solar atmosphere. Astrophys. Journ., suppl. 5, No. 45, pp. 1-138, 1960.

Hactnara, Y. Gaps in the distribution of asteroids. Smithsonian Contr.
Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 6, 1961.

On the motion of satellites with critical inclination. Smithsonian
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 5, 1961.

Hover, P. W. NGC 2209: An unusual cluster of the large Magellanic cloud.
Publ. Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 72, pp. 308-311, 1961.

. Studies of the large Magellanic cloud: V. The young populous clusters.
Astrophys. Journ., vol. 133, pp. 418-419, 1961.

Hopes, P. W., and Wricut, F. W. The space density of atmospheric dust in
the altitude range 50,000 to 90,000 feet. Tech. Rep., Air Force Cambridge
Research Center (AFCRL 451), 1961.

Hover, P. W.; Wricut, F. W.; and Horrrert, D. An annotated bibliography on
interplanetary dust. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 8, 1961.

Horrteit, D. See Hodge, Wright, and Hoffleit.

IzsaxK, I. G. On satellite orbits with very small eccentricities. Astron. Journ.,
vol. 66, pp. 129-131, 1961.

Periodic drag perturbations of artificial satellites. Astron. Journ., vol.
65, pp. 855-357, 1960.

Jacouta, L. G. Artificial earth satellites. Scientia, ser. 6, vol. 54, 1960.

A variable atmospheric-density model from satellite accelerations.
Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 65, pp. 2275-2782, 1960.

Jaccuia, L. G., and WHIPPLE, F. L. Precision orbits of 413 photographic meteors.
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 4, No. 4, 1961.

Kistner, G. A. See Fireman and Kistner.

Kozat, Y. Effect of precession and nutation on the orbital elements of a close
earth satellite. Astron. Journ., vol. 65, pp. 621-623, 1960.

Note on the motion of a close earth satellite with a small eccentricity.

Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 182-134, 1961.

The gravitational field of the earth derived from motions of three
satellites. Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 8-10, 1961.

Kumar, S. 8. On gravitational instability II. Publ. Astron. Soc., Japan, vol. 12,
p. 290, 1960.

. On gravitational instability III. Publ. Astron. Soc., Japan, vol. 13, p.
121, 1961.

McCrosky, R. HB. Observations of simulated meteors. Smithsonian Contr.
Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 4, 1961.

McCrosxy, R. E., and Posen, A. Elements of photographic meteors. Smith-
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 4, No. 2, 1961.

Mouter, W. U. See Goldberg, Mohler, and Brown.

Mutter, E. A. See Goldberg, Muller, and Aller,

SECRETARY’S REPORT 91

Nopvik, J.S. See Rustgi, Nodvik, and Weissler.

Posen, A. See McCrosky and Posen.

Ries, F. B., Jz. Vacuum sealing of gold wire leads to a differential thermopile.
Rev. Sci. Instr., vol. 32, No. 3, p. 366, March 1961.

Ruste, O. P.; Nopvix, J. S:; and WerIssLer, G. L. Optical constants of germa-
nium in the region O-27 EV. Phys. Rev., vol. 122, p. 1131, 1961.

Strom, K. M. See Strom, S. E., and Strom, K. M.; Strom, Strom, and Davis.

StTroM, 8S. E., and Srrom, K. M. Interstellar absorption below 100 A. Publ.
Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 73, pp. 43-45, 1961.

Strom, S. E.; Strom, K. M.; and Davis, R. J. A general method of analysis for
n-lens, m-mirror systems (abstract). Journ. Opt. Soc. Amer., vol. 72, p. 43,
1961.

Tries, D. See Fireman, DeFelice, and Tilles.

TILLEs, D.; DEFELIcE, J.; and FrremMan, EH. L. Argon-37 in recovered satellite
material (abstract). Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc., ser. 2, vol. 2, No. 3, p. 277, 1961.

WEISSLER, G. L. See Rustgi, Nodvik, and Weissler.

Wuirpte, F. L. The dust cloud about the earth. Nature, vol. 189, No. 4789,
pp. 127-128, Jan. 14, 1961.

The earth’s dust belt. Astronaut. Sci. Rev., vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 17-19,

April-June 1961.

General conclusions. Mem. Soc. Roy. Sci. Liége, ser. 5, vol. 4, 1961.

Particulate contents of space. In Medical and Biological Aspects of

the Energies of Space, P. Campbell, editor, 1961.

. See also Jacchia and Whipple.

WaicutT, F.W. See Hodge and Wright ; Hodge, Wright, and Hoffleit.

The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory distribute
catalogues of satellite observations, orbital data, and preliminary re-
sults of data analysis prior to journal publication. Numbers 45
through 63, issued during the year, contain the following material:

Special Report No. 45, July 11, 1960.
List of coordinates of stations engaged in the observation of artificial earth-
satellites, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 46, July 11, 1960.
The effect of a variable scale height on determinations of atmospheric density
from satellite accelerations, by L. G. Jacchia.
Special Report No. 47 (C-15), Sept. 9, 1960.
Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 Alpha, 1958 61, 1958 £2,
1958 62, for Jan. 1-May 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 48 (C-16), Sept. 9, 1960.
Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1959 «1 and 1959 a2 for Jan. 1-
May 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 49 (C-17), Sept. 9, 1960.
Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1959 Eta and .2 for Jan. 1-
May 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 50, Oct. 3, 1960.
The orbit of Satellite 1958 Alpha (Explorer I) during the first 10,500 revolu-
tions, by P. BH. Zadunaisky.
Special Report (unnumbered), Dec. 20, 1960.
Index to SAO Special Reports Nos. 1-50.
Special Report No. 51, Oct. 17, 1960.
Satellite orbital data: Satellites 1958 61 and 1958 82 by B. Miller; Satellites
1958 62 and 1959 v1, by Y. Kozai, for Sept. 1959-April 1960, compiled by
D. V. Mechau.

92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Special Report No. 52, Nov. 21, 1960.

A theory of satellite motion about an oblate planet: A second-order solution

of Vinti’s dynamical problem, by I. G. Izsak.
Special Report No. 53, Dec. 5, 1960.

The orbits and the accelerations of Satellites 1959 a1 and 1959 a2, by R. C.
Nigam.

Special Report No. 54 (C-18), Dec. 19, 1960.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 Alpha, 1958 61, 1959 £2,
1958 52, 1958 Epsilon, for June 1—Aug. 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.

Special Report No. 55 (C—-19), Dec. 19, 1960.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1959 a1, 1959 a2, 1959 Eta,

1959 11, for June 1—Aug. 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 56, Jan. 30, 1961.

A method of analysis for lens and mirror systems, by R. J. Davis, S. E. Strom,
and K. M. Strom.

A determination of the ellipticity of the earth’s equator from the motion of
two satellites, by I. G. Izsak.

Effects of solar radiation pressure on the motion of an artificial satellite,
by Y. Kozai.

Special Report No. 57 (C—20), Mar. 3, 1961.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 81 (carrier rocket Tiros I),
for Apr. 1—-June 1, 1960; 1960 82 (Tiros I), for Apr. 2-Aug. 31, 1960; 1960
v1 (carrier rocket, Transit I B), for Apr. 13-June 3, 1060; 1960 y2 (Transit
I B) for Apr. 14-July 25, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.

Special Report No. 58 (C—21), Mar. 3, 1961.
Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 «1 (Echo I), and 1960 .:2
(carrier rocket, Echo I), for Aug. 12—Aug. 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 59, Mar. 3, 1961.
The positions of the Baker-Nunn camera stations, by G. Veis.
Special Report No. 60, Mar. 10, 1961.

The effect of radiation pressure on the secular acceleration of satellites, by
S. P. Wyatt.

Special Report No. 61, Mar. 20, 1961.

Experimental and theoretical results on the orbit of Echo I, by P. B.
Zadunaisky, I. J. Shapiro, and H. M. Jones.

Special Report No. 62, May 26, 1961.

The atmospheric drag of artificial satellites during the October 1960 and

November 1960 events, by L. G. Jacchia.
Special Report No. 63, May 29, 1961.
Effect of the diurnal atmospheric bulge on satellite accelerations, by S. P.

Wyatt.
OTHER ACTIVITIES

Members of the staff presented papers at meetings of the American
Astronomical Society, the American Physical Society, the American
Geophysical Union, the National Telemetering Conference, the Amer-
ican Meteorological Society, the American Astronautical Society,
the American Philosophical Society, the Optical Society of America,
the International Association of Geodesy, the Institute of Aero-
nautical Sciences, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

Dr. Fireman presented a paper at the International Atomic Energy
Commission in Vienna and at a meeting of the Meteoritical Society
in Los Angeles. The Director, Dr. Veis, Mr. Izsak, and Dr. Jacchia
SECRETARY'S REPORT 93

attended a COSPAR meeting in Florence, Italy. Drs. Fireman,
McCrosky, and Riggs held a meeting with the director of the Amer-
ican Meteorite Museum in New York. The Director and Mr. Izsak
met with the Space Science Board in New York City. Mr. Izsak,
with Dr. Kozai and Mr. Rolff, participated in the Space Age Geodesy
Symposium at Columbus, Ohio.

Dr. Davis held consultations with scientists at the University of
Wisconsin on the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. Dr. Riggs
attended the Pittsburgh Diffraction Conference and participated in
an A.S.T.M. panel meeting on electron probe microanalysis. The
Director, Dr. Veis, and Mr. Izsak attended the 12th assembly of
the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics in Helsinki in
July. Dr. Hynek visited South Dakota in connection with unmanned
balloon flights. Dr. Lautman, Dr. Kozai, and Mr. Nigman attended
the Yale Summer Institute in New Haven. Drs. Whipple, Davis,
Jacchia, and Whitney participated in the symposium on Aeronomy
sponsored by the International Association of Geomagnetism and
Aeronomy at Copenhagen in July.

Dr. Whitney attended the I.A.U. symposium in Varenna, Italy,
August 1960, where he presented a paper prepared jointly with Dr.
P. Ledoux on present-day knowledge of the gas dynamics of variable
stars. Dr. Whitney also presented, at the International Meetings of
Aeronomers in Copenhagen, July 1960, a survey of methods of deriv-
ing atmospheric densities from satellite accelerations.

The Director served as president of the Tenth Astrophysical Sym-
posium on Far Ultraviolet Spectra of Astronomical Bodies at the
University of Liege, Belgium. As president of the Subcommission
22a, the Director prepared and submitted a world-wide meteoritical
report to Commission 22 of the International Astronomical Union.
The objective, to further international research in the field of meteor-
ites, was forwarded by literature in the area and contributions from
other members of the Committee. The Director also acted as con-
sultant to the Scientific Advisory Board of the U.S. Air Force during
the year as well as to the Committee on Science and Astronautics of
the House of Representatives.

STAFF CHANGES

The following scientists joined the staff: Dr. Leo Goldberg,
solar astrophysics; Drs. Giuseppe Colombo, Yusuke Hagihara, and
George Veis, research and analysis, satellite-tracking program; Drs.
Richard B. Southworth, David Tilles, and John A. Wood, meteoritical
studies; Dr. Om P. Rustgi, Celescope.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek resigned as associate director to become director
of the Dearborn Observatory, Northwestern University.

Kenneth H. Drummond resigned as assistant director (manage-
ment), to accept a similar position at the University of California,
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

La Jolla. Carlton W. Tillinghast, Jr., became the new assistant
director.
As of June 80, 1961, 809 persons were employed at the Observatory.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

In addition to two other leased buildings, the Astrophysical Obser-
vatory occupies the recently completed Harvard University Space
Science Building on the grounds of the Harvard College Observatory.
Dedication took place in December 1960.

FUNDS AVAILABLE, FISCAL YEAR 1961

Satellitetrackine Program GNA AY) eee ee ee eee $3, 900, 000
Celescopes (NASA 5160) 2s ee ee Ber eee Si ee 695, 543
Army Ballistics Missile Agency (ABMA)-_~___-____________ 19, 964
Airenorees Contract el oO Oss ene ee ee Se 22, 547
AIT RMOLCer Contracts G62 (ee as oe ae ee eee ee Re 4, 998
AuremorceuContracte(ti4ske 22 eek Ais eee ee eee ee aes 67, 786
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Grant H-8647_____- 50, 000
National Science Foundation Grant 163837_-__-_---_ == 20, 000
National Science Foundation Grant 16067______.__________._._____- 25, 000

c) Ao) 627) It en ae eS a ERS ELSI Bo ANU Sm ieee ks Li Nae egies ed 4, 805, 838

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
Prepared by W. H. Kern, Chief of the Division

The research activities of the Division were continued in the general
field of photobiology, and the principal efforts were directed toward
a more complete description of the regulatory responses of plants
that are mediated by radiant energy. The technics of biochemistry,
biophysics, cytology, and plant physiology were used in evaluating
both qualitatively and quantitatively the metabolic and morphological
changes occurring at the cellular and subcellular level in such photo-
regulatory processes.

The time course of chlorophyll synthesis at various stages of de-
velopment for dark-grown Black Valentine bean plants was deter-
mined. A lag phase in the rate of chlorophyll synthesis occurs when
seedlings are 6 or more days old. The rate of chlorophyll synthesis
can be increased by a low-level pretreatment of red radiant energy,
and this red effect can be completely eliminated by following it with
far-red radiant energy. Since it appeared to be a possibility that
the rate-limiting factor might be a substance which was depleted
from the leaves or cotyledons at about 6 days or synthesized as a
result of the red pretreatment, a number of compounds were tested
by infiltrating leaves to determine their effect on the lag phase. In
leaves infiltrated with delta amino levulinic acid, chlorophyll syn-
thesis was found to occur without a lag phase during the first hour of
SECRETARY'S REPORT 95

subsequent irradiation. However, a pretreatment with red energy of
delta amino levulinic acid infiltrated leaves did not increase chloro-
phyll synthesis, and beyond an hour of irradiation at low intensities,
the rate of chlorophyll synthesis declined. At high intensities, the
newly synthesized chlorophyll is destroyed.

The regulation of chlorophyll formation and the development of
the photosynthetic apparatus as affected by inhibitors of protein syn-
thesis were studied. Chlorophyll formation was inhibited at a con-
centration of 10 »gm./ml., and 60-80 percent inhibition occurred at
4,000 p»gm./ml. Green pigments accumulating in the presence of anti-
biotic were chlorophylls a and 6, and they were found to be present in
the same ratio as in leaves treated with water instead of chlorampheni-
col. However, the effectiveness of chlorophyll in catalyzing photo-
synthesis decreased with increased concentration of chloramphenicol.
Chloramphenicol does not affect the photosynthetic ability of leaves
greened in its absence.

Leaves greened in the presence of chloramphenicol did not differ
in their content of TPN-dependent glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate de-
hydrogenase from water-treated controls. Levels of carboxydismu-
tase were somewhat lower in treated leaves. However, Hill reaction
activity of a green particle fraction from leaves greened in chloram-
phenicol solution was only a tenth of that of the same fraction from
control leaves.

The rate of chlorophyll synthesis in Black Valentine bean leaves
was demonstrated to be another physiological response which is sub-
ject to the mediation of the red, far-red photomorphogenic receptor.
The rate of pigment production by the chlorophyll-synthesizing
mechanism in etiolated leaves can be influenced by a short preirradia-
tion with red and far-red radiant energy. A treatment consisting of
several minutes of red light, followed by an overnight period in dark-
ness, results in appreciable stimulation in the subsequent rate of
chlorophyll synthesis in continuous white light. The stimulation in-
duced by a red pretreatment can be nullified by subsequent exposure
to far-red, either immediately after the red induction or even after
interposing as much as 9 hours of darkness. When red and far-red
are administered alternately for several cycles, the quality of the ter-
minal treatment controls the rate of chlorophyll synthesis. The effect
of the red, far-red system on the chlorophyll-synthesizing mechanism
may be due to the synthesis of pigment precursors or to changes in
plastid size and/or number.

The expansion of dark-grown leaves is promoted markedly by ex-
posure to red radiant energy. For leaf disks, the induction by red
is a logarithmic function of dose over the range of 0.1 to 100 mj./cm.?
when given in 100 seconds. For reversal, the dose response curve is
a linear function of dose, and the maximum effectiveness of the far-
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

red occurs about 30 minutes after induction. Preliminary measure-
ments of the spectral sensitivity of leaf disk expansion indicate that
at 546 and 577 mp, the promotive effect is as great for equal quantum
flux as at 660 mp.

For leaves stimulated by red energy, an additional growth stimu-
lation of expansion is exerted by cobalt ions, which also promote
expansion in the dark. The maximum growth promotion due to co-
balt was found to be 3X10-*M. and was not found to be affected by
2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) which uncouples oxidative phosphorylation.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels in the leaf tissue were not af-
fected by cobalt alone. However, complete deletion of ATP by
DNP did not occur if cobalt ion was added simultaneously. It ap-
pears that this effect is not due to the formation of a complex between
DNP and cobalt ion which is inactive in the oxidative phosphoryla-
tion process. Experiments with isolated mitochondria indicate that
the cobalt ion inhibits the activity of adenosine triphosphatase,
thereby increasing the net gain of ATP from oxidative phosphoryla-
tion.

The yield of chromosome aberrations induced by a given dose of
X-rays is increased by supplemental far-red radiation. Since far-red
energy is effective as either a pretreatment or posttreatment, it is
apparently the rejoining mechanism rather than breakage per se
that is affected. Alternatively, the increase of X-ray-induced aber-
rations may result from mitotic delay induced by far-red. These
possibilities are not necessarily mutually exclusive since some particu-
lar phase of the mitotic cycle, e.g., that portion of mitotic interphase
during which DNA synthesis takes place, may be preferentially
affected.

Studies were conducted of cell population kinetics of root systems
of broad bean, Vicia faba, using flash labeling with tritiated thymi-
dine assayed by autoradiographs of squashed preparations. The rel-
ative frequency of labeled nuclei in each of the various stages of
mitosis was determined for dark-grown and far-red treated material.
The average duration of the mitotic cycle in Vicia faba was found to
be 19.1 hours. Cell division required 1.8 hours, and 17.3 hours were
spent in mitotic interphase. During this latter portion of the cycle,
DNA synthesis occupied 9.0 hours, while presynthetic and postsyn-
thetic interphase averaged 5.1 and 3.2 hours, respectively. There was
no evidence of mitotic delay in far-red treated material. Mitotic
indices, which averaged 9.2 for the far-red and 8.8 for the control
series, were comparable throughout.

The responses of sporangiophores of Phycomyces blakesleeanus to
diverging unilateral blue-light stimuli given in air were determined.
It was found that 3-minute stimuli given through a thin cylindrical
lens (approximately the same diameter as the sporangiophore) placed
SECRETARY'S REPORT 97

0.15 mm. away from the sporangiophore, and with its long axis paral-
lel to the axis of the sporangiophore, produced negative curvatures.
All experiments were performed in a water-saturated atmosphere in
order to prevent negative avoidance responses due to the proximity of
the lens. The data support Buder’s conclusion that the focusing ad-
vantage is the principal effect which produces the light gradient nec-
essary for phototropism. When compared to data obtained from
sporangiophores immersed in inert liquid fluorochemicals, the attenu-
ation across the growing zone appears to be of the order of 10 percent.
Therefore, for blue stimuli, under any irradiation conditions in which
the focusing advantage is less than 10 percent, negative curvatures are
produced by unilateral stimuli.

Preliminary observations were made of the growth rates of sporan-
giophores at intensities greater than 1.5 milliwatt/cm.?, for which
phototropic indifference occurs with unilateral stimuli. It was found
that the growth rate increased markedly for these high intensities
from the normal adapted level of 3-4 mm./hr. to 5-6 mm./hr. and was
maintained at this high level for several hours.

Instruments for measuring the spectral distribution of sunlight in
six wavebands from 250 my to 5,000 mp were completed and mounted
on the roof of the North Tower of the Smithsonian Building. Auto-
matic recorders have been installed on the tenth floor of the Tower
and measurements are being made continuously from an hour before
sunrise to an hour after sunset.

PUBLICATIONS

SISLER, Epwarp C., and Kie1n, Wi~t1aAM H. Effect of red and far-red irradia-
tion on nucleotide phosphate and adenosine triphosphate levels in dark-grown
bean and Avena seedlings. Physiologia Plantarum, vol. 14, pp. 115-123, 1961.

SHROPSHIRE, W., Jr.; Kiermn, W. H.; and Exstap, V. B. Action spectra of
photomorphogenie induction and photoinactivation of germination in Arabi-
dopsis thaliana. Plant and Cell Physiol., vol. 2, pp. 63-69, 1961.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

During the course of the year, members of the staff attended a num-
ber of national and international scientific meetings. Dr. W. H. Klein
traveled to the International Photobiology Congress in Copenhagen,
Denmark, and was one of the United States representatives at the
Seed Irradiation Conference in Karlsruhe, Germany. He also visited
a number of laboratories in Denmark, Germany, and the Netherlands.
Members of the staff who were present at the annual meeting of the
American Institutes of Biological Sciences in Stillwater, Okla., were
Dr. L. Loercher, L. Price, and Dr. E. C. Sisler. Papers from the
Division included in the program of this meeting were: “Chlorophyll
Synthesis in X-irradiated Etiolated Bean Leaf Tissue,” by L. Price
and W. H. Klein, and “Effect of Red and Far-red Irradiation on
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Nucleotide Phosphate and Adenosine Triphosphate in Seedlings,” by
E. C. Sisler and W. H. Klein.

Dr. W. Shropshire participated in a Departmental Colloquium on
Photobiology at Purdue University and visited laboratories at several
universities in the eastern United States to confer with other investi-
gators working in the field of phototropism.

At the 1961 meetings of the Southern Section of the American
Society of Plant Physiologists at Jackson, Miss., L. Price and V. B.
Elstad presented papers.

Dr. Klein opened a lecture series at Duke University, Durham,
N.C., by presenting two lectures on the subject “Photoinduced Reac-
tions in Plants and Their Action Spectra.” Dr.M. Margulies attended
the annual meeting of the Federation of American Societies for Ex-
perimental Biology in Atlantic City, N.J. Dr. R. L. Latterell
presented a paper at the Radiation Research Society meetings held
in Washington, D.C.

Dr. Shropshire and Dr. Klein visited marine biology and photo-
biology laboratories in Washington and California.

Respectfully submitted.

Frep L. Wutprtez, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Collection
of Fine Arts

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1961:

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 388th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in Washington on Tuesday, December 6, 1960. Members present
were Paul Manship, chairman; Leonard Carmichael, secretary; Gil-
more D. Clarke, David E. Finley, Walker Hancock, Bartlett H.
Hayes, Ogden M. Pleissner, Charles H. Sawyer, and Archibald G.
Wenley. James C. Bradley, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, Theodore W. Taylor, Assistant to the Secretary, and
Thomas M. Beggs, Director, National Collection of Fine Arts, were
also present.

The Commission recommended reappointment of David E. Finley,
Charles H. Sawyer, Paul Manship, and Archibald G. Wenley for the
usual 4-year term.

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leon-
ard Carmichael, secretary.

The following were reelected members of the executive committee
for the ensuing year: David KE. Finley, chairman; Robert Woods
Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, Archibald G. Wenley, with Paul Manship
and Leonard Carmichael, ex officio.

Mr. Beggs reported on the functions of the National Collection of
Fine Arts and its relation to the other Government galleries in Wash-
ington. Mr. Beggs quoted from the publication, “Art and Govern-
ment, Report to the President by the Commission of Fine Arts on
Activities of the Federal Government in the Field of Art, Washing-
ton, D.C., 1953,” citing especially a summary of testimony it con-
tained, which distinguished briefly between the main purposes of the
three Smithsonian bureaus of fine art. He called attention to the
Act of Congress of May 17, 1938, Section 4, which defines the respon-
sibilities of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Among these are
stressed authority to accept gifts of art works of both past and pres-
ent and to accept funds from private sources for their purchase and

99
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

especially to encourage the development of American contemporary
art. A list of references on the subject was provided.

Mr. Clarke reported that the subcommittee appointed to advise in
the development of plans for housing the National Collection of Fine
Arts in the Old Patent Office Building had met on December 5 and
had discussed the progress made on plans for renovation of the Patent
Office Building. He reviewed the architect’s plans and specifications.
The adaptability of the building to gallery purposes was pointed out,
and the major structural change, the construction of a loading ramp
and platform, was outlined. Special features discussed were off-street
parking and car storage, a dining area, and the practicability of an
auditorium.

Mr. Bradley stated that an appropriation had been made to the
General Services Administration for the construction of a new Civil
Service Building and that consequently the original Patent Office
Building probably would be turned over to the Smithsonian at an
earlier date than previously expected, possibly by the spring of 1963.

Dr. Carmichael requested the Commission’s advice on a new opera-
tion proposed for the Smithsonian Institution. He briefly outlined
the program to obtain a collection of industry-sponsored art to be used
as a nucleus for traveling exhibitions, decoration of Federal offices, and
possibly the decoration of Embassies and American libraries overseas,
which would be supported by private funds.

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects
for the National Collection of Fine Arts:

Marble, Napoleon Bonaparte (1808-73) by Pierre Jean David d’Angers
(1788-1856). Offered by Mr. and Mrs. Fortunato Porotto, Washington, D.C.

Bronze, Abraham Lincoln (1809-65) by Augustus St. Gaudens (1847-1907).
Offered by Cornelia Kremer, Washington, D.C.

Four heroic-size marble busts by William Couper (1853-1942): Jean Louis
Rudolph Agassiz (1807-73), Spencer Fullerton Baird (1823-88), Benjamin
Franklin (1706-90) and Joseph Henry (1797-1878). Offered by the American
Museum of Natural History, New York City.

Black Belgian marble, Faleon, by Bessie Stough Callender (1889-1951).
Bequest of Harold Callender, Paris, France.

Decorative wall hanging by Mary Ellen Crisp. Offered by the artist,
Biddeford, Maine.

The Commission recommended the following be held for submission
to the National Portrait Gallery Commission:

Oil, Judge Isaac Samuels Pennylacker (1807-47) by undetermined artist.
Bequest of Dr. Bernard Samuels, Front Royal, Va.

ART WORKS LENT AND RETURNED

Institutions Loans Returned
AmericaniMederation of sArt 2) 0205. Uke Rae eh ee eee eel eae eae ef!
ArmyaSionals Corpse 20 Ske ee REY SUM ESO eRe te SPATE ee, See 2

Atomicuinersy.®ommissions 222) eae oat eee ee ee eee eee 4
SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

ERTATIO STO eat Capes CL Or ae eee th Le 20 2
ChnyslerrAtrt -Museumies 2 ates eae a 8 oe ie el le 1
Civile Senvice COMMISSIONS = 252 ako ee oe ee ee See 4
WorcoransGalleycotcATts- =e en eae 2 al 1
EE ASO me MUSOU ee aes oot eS ee ae ee 3 3
Georsen Washington) University --22420 2.2 228 eee ee il! al
RIS Ce nm DeDATHNENt Ole see ee ae ee Se ie Sat 4
ESTICO LTA YETI S CU none em oe ei I EA he A 8 I ie 8 il
BVM GPA LY MAN OTISG@ II Smee Sasa ha ol ie es RU 8
WilitanyeAp peas COUPE Ob snoe ose s Serre Se Se eee alt
Mimi cipale | Counts = 2. se cee ears Sek Pee ee he TE I 4
Nahond le GallervcotiAmt:: 200 fu oo bo ks ee ae 1
WorthneCarolina, Museum) of pAtTtoa222* whe tt) Pe ee tek ee 1 1
iGharde hea SONG rs = 2.25 ee ete he le re 12
Statewroepartment) Of-ss 2s kee sre tN Boe ee he 8 4
OTOULOnPAT GEG Ae y) Of s Sas as Fe ee es ae le es 5 5
aiaxton-Decatur Naval’ Museums 2225 oa ees ee 1
WnitedascacesWIStrict Count. oes eee ee ee 3 1
United States National Museum, Division of Military History_____ 8
Man COUVErMATC Gallery 2 swie: eet ats a ae ae ee es 4 4
Mined wVEUSCUMLOT HiNGw Arts i. aes Fa See oe ls 1
BEET GV VELL G ET O USCS. ea os Sa 9 26
Whitney, Gertrude Vanderbilt, Museum of Western Art___________ 1 1
Winithey Museum of American Art. 2- = 222) = ee 5 5
wichita mUMIVersity: Of=2=2 = FUR ail RAEN Sade As te Be 1
Dryatertarbe ss. Att MUSOU a a ees 5 5
89 98

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

The following four oils, transferred from the White House, were
added December 6, 1960:

Undetermined title, by Gatti Annibale (1827-1909). Presented to the Presi-
dent by H. E. Giovanni Gronchi, President of the Republic of Italy.

Canada Ojeda, by Ameliano del Castillo. Presented to the President by the
Director of Radio Station “La Voz de Guadix,” Enrique Caroles Tarrago, Guadix,
Granada, Spain.

Prado do Les Aninas, by Benjamin Palencia. Presented to the President by
the Mayor of Madrid, Jose De Romani, Finat y Escrina, Count of Mayalde.

Francisco De Vitoria, by Varquer. Presented to the President by H. E. General
Francisco Franco. j

ART WORKS LENT AND RETURNED

Institutions Loans Returned
Federal Communications Commission________-_________________ 3
PESTO GMA a ETM CSE 15] | Rk One nee ee | a gs a Meira ah A 35 35
meron Galt Coast Art: Center -2 222 9. Papen Te a 8 35 35
Ree WOGTIS€ AUCTIE Of ect achat ok A eA, Bask 3
Meare RITA V PES] bye ete SAL I PN RAE, MUCOSA ey Cate 1
_ TTT EE OUST GS SRI IE VRS GUERE EVAN SEO Res ATER A ON See Le A el 24

manies: Hlorida Artists Group..0 0's 35 35
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Institutions Loans Returned
Post Office -Department.2- 22262 se82 2 ee eee 4
WS: District sCourts 2222-2 2 ee ee ee 4
The White Hous@=22 22.20 223 ee er ee Bee 6
113 142

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

The following paintings purchased previously but not assigned have
been allocated to the institutions indicated:

Title and artist Assignment
214. Yesterday and Before and Before, The Canton Art Institute, Canton,
by Loring W. Coleman (1918-__). Ohio.
228. Sag Harbor, by Nicolai Cikovsky Yankton College, Yankton, S. Dak.
(1894-_ ).

According to a provision of the Henry Ward Ranger bequest, that
paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy of
Design from the fund provided by the bequest and assigned to
American art institutions may be claimed during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the
following paintings were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art
Commission at its meeting December 6, 1960.

No. 105. The Pale Light of Dawn, by Spencer Nichols, N. A. (1875-1950), was
returned to the Society of Liberal Arts, Joslyn Memorial, Omaha, Nebr., where
it was originally assigned in 19382.

No. 37. The Bathers, by Spencer Nichols, N. A. (1875-1950), was returned to

the Art Hall, Beloit College, Beloit, Wis., where it was originally assigned in
1924.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as
follows:

Title and artist

234. Wreck of the Sea Prince (water-
color), by John C. Pellew
(1903- ).

235. Espresso Magnifico, by Franklin
Robbins (1917— ).

236. Equestrian Acrobats, by Jon
Corbino (1905- ).

237. Bass Rocks (watercolor), by
Morton Roberts (1927— ).

238. White Mountain (watercolor),
by Adolf Dehn (1895-  ).

239. Venezia (watercolor), by Robert
T. Handville (1924 ).

240. Nut Street Station (watercolor),
by Dong Kingman (1911- ).

241. My Neighbor’s Place (water-
eolor), by Harry Anderson
(1906—-  ).

Assignment
College of Fine and Applied Arts,
University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.

City College, New York, N.Y.
Howard

D.C.
Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa.

University, Washington,
Assignment pending.

University of Denver, Denver, Colo.
Assignment pending.

West Point Museum, West Point,
N.Y.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

Title and artist Assignment

242. Posted (watercolor), by John De Malden Public Library, Malden,
Tore (1902- ). Mass.

243. Barnin Friendship (watercolor), The Leland Stanford Junior Univer-
by Frederick P. Krause sity, Stanford University, Calif.
(1918-— ).

244, Morning in the Cove (water- Rock Springs High School Art Proj-
color), by Milford Zornes ect, Rock Springs, Wyo.

(1908-  ).

245. Reclining Woman (watercolor), Rensselaer County Historical So-

by John Russell (1928- ). ciety, Troy, N.Y.

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

In addition to the 65 exhibits held over from previous years as indi-
cated, 56 new shows were introduced. The total of 121 of these were
circulated to 314 museums in the United States.

EXHIBITS CONTINUED FROM PRIOR YEARS

1955-1956: Chinese Ivories from the Collection of Sir Victor Sassoon.

1956-1957: Contemporary German Prints; Architectural Photography II;
Japan II by Werner Bischof; and The World of Edward Weston.

1957-1958: The American City in the 19th Century; Recent American Prints;
Japanese Woodblock Prints; Theatrical Posters of the Gay Nineties; Birds
by Emerson Tuttle; Contemporary Portuguese Architecture; Nylon Rug
Designs; Burmese Embroideries; Japanese Dolls; Thai Painting; The
Anatomy of Nature; Photographs of Sarawak; Glimpses of Switzerland;
Art in Opera II—Carmen; The Four Seasons; Children’s Paintings from
Morocco; Drawings by European Children; Photographs of Angkor Wat;
and Pup, Cub and Kitten.

1958-1959: German Artists of Today; Advertising in 19th Century America;
The Engravings of Pieter Brueghel the Elder; Three Danish Printmakers;
Charles Fenderich—Lithographer of American Statesmen; Drawings from
Latin America ; Contemporary Religious Prints from the Sloniker Collection ;
Religious Subjects in Modern Graphic Arts; Contemporary French Tapes-
tries I; Our Town; Stone Rubbings from Angkor Wat; Shaker Craftsman-
ship; The Unguarded Moment, Photographs by Erich Salomon; Children’s
Paintings from India; A Child Looks at the Museum; and Swiss Children’s
Paintings.

1959-1960: The Art of Seth Eastman; Contemporary Greek Painting; Early
Drawings by Toulouse-Lautrec; Watercolors and Drawings by Thomas
Rowlandson; Prints and Drawings by Jacques Villon; American Prints
Today; Brazilian Printmakers; Lithographs of Fantin-Latour; Arts and
Cultural Centers; Bernard Ralph Maybeck; Enamels; Eskimo Art; Con-
temporary French Tapestries II; Contemporary American Glass; Story of
American Glass; Bazaar Paintings from Calcutta; Gandhara Sculpture;
Sardinian Crafts; Arctic Riviera; Photographs by Robert Capa II; Outer
Mongolia; Pagan; Portraits of Greatness; Contrasts; and Paintings by
Young Africans.

625325—62——_8
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961
EXHIBITIONS INITIATED IN 1961

Paintings and Sculptures

Title Source
Work by Lorres|Gareias- Rose Fried Gallery; private collectors.
ThreeeSwisseainters 22222 The Akron Art Institute; Basel Kun-
thalle and Winterthur Museum.
The Technique of Fresco Painting_____ Michelangelo Muraro, Deputy Superin-

tendent of Monuments in Venice;
Italian Embassy.

Folk Painters of the Canadian West___ National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa;
Canadian Embassy.

Paintings by Ch’i Pai-Shih____.________ Yakichiro Suma, Director of the Chuo
University in Tokyo.

Birds'of Greenland 22222222 eee Gitz-Johnsen; Embassy of Denmark,
The Carlsberg Foundation, Copen-
hagen.

A Tribute to Grandma Moses____---_-_ Galerie St. Etienne, New York; Dr. Otto
Kalir.

Drawings and Prints

The America of Currier and Ives______ Prints and Photographs Division, Li-
brary of Congress.

WAG Ww: LOCO ers Ronn 5 Eas a Thomas M. Messer, Director of the In-
stitute of Contemporary Art, Boston.

Drawings by Sculptors._______________ Museums; private collectors; artists;

Miss Jane Wade, Otto Gerson Gallery,
New York City.
The Graphic Art of Edvard Munch____ Lessing J. Rosenwald; National Gallery

of Art.

German./Coalor Prints22 222-20 oes Selection from the 1959 exhibition, “Far-
bige Graphik’” ; German Embassy.

Eskimo Graphie Art__________________ Eskimo Art, Inc., Ann Arbor, Mich.

Civil ‘War Drawings [2 “ose, 2 American libraries; Library of Con-
gress.

Civil War Drawings II_______________ American libraries; Library of Con-
gress.

American Art Nouveau Posters_______ Prints and Photographs Division, Li-

brary of Congress.
American Industry in the 19th Century_ Prints and Photographs Division, Li-
brary of Congress.

America, on, Stones. To) eos Harry T. Peters Collection, Smithsonian
Institution.

Printing in the Netherlands___________ Graphic Export Centre, Amsterdam;
The Royal Netherlands Embassy.

Halian: Drawings? ove BAO ei Gabinetto Disegni Galleria degli Uffizi,

Florence, Italy; Dr. Giulia Sinibaldi
and Dr. Maria Fossi Todorow; Italian
HEmbassy.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 105

Ortental

Wesizned in Okinawas—-o--os.2us-eeee Ryukyuan Islands museums; Honorable
Jugo Thoma, Chief Executive of the
Islands; Lt. Gen. Donald P. Booth,
U.S. High Commissioner.

Okinawa—Continuing Traditions_____- Ryukyuan Islands museums; Honorable
Jugo Thoma, Chief Executive of the
Islands; Lt. Gen. Donald P. Booth,
U.S. High Commissioner.

Printsiby Munakata {2325 ie 28.2 _. Chisaburoh Yamada, Tokyo; Print Club
of Cleveland Museum of Art.
Contemporary Japanese Drawings____. Atsuo Imaizumi, Deputy Director, Na-

tional Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo;
Japanese Embassy.

wapanenDesign: Today, 22s Japan Society, Inc., New York.

The Spirit of the Japanese Print______. James A. Michener, Author; Charles E.
Tuttle Company.

Americans—A View from the East__-. Collection of Carl Boehringer.

The Way of Chinese Landscape Dr. Fritz van Briessen, German Foreign

Painting. Service Officer, Tokyo; Museum of
Modern Art, Tokyo.
Architecture
Swiss Industrial Architecture________- Federation of Swiss Architects; Pro

Helvetia Foundation; Swiss Embassy.
Contemporary Swedish Architecture___ National Association of Swedish Archi-
tects and Swedish Institute.

Miestvanider Rohesvessoies20 2 saatss: American Institute of Architects, Wash-
ington, D.C.
Irish Architecture of the Georgian Pe- Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland;
riod. Bord Failte Eireann; Irish Embassy.
One Hundred Years of Colorado Archi- Colorado Chapter of American Institute
tecture. of Architects; F. Lamar Kelsey,
Chairman, Exhibits Committee.
Brasilia—A New Capital_____________ Brazilian Embassy.

Design and Crafis

Scenic Designers Offstage____________. Corning Museum of Glass; United
Seenie Artists.
Design in Germany Today______-_-__- West German Government; Dr. Hans

Eckstein, Director, Museum of Ap-
plied Arts, Munich ; German Embassy.

Fibers, Tools and Weaves____________- Paul John Smith of the American
Craftsmen’s Council.
Wesigned> for (Silver). 22232222 “222 ese Museum of Contemporary Crafts; Yale
‘ University Art Gallery.
Banks iby: Maud Rydins= ss ones Museum of Contemporary Crafts, New
York; Swedish Embassy; artist.
American’ Textiles 22. 220 Index of American Design, National

Gallery of Art.
106 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Photography

The Seasons, color photographs by The Artist.

Eliot Porter.
The World of Werner Bischof__----~- Magnum Photos, Inc.; Embassy of Swit-_
zerland; Pro Helvetia.

Science

The imagevoft Physics=-22..- saa Miss Berenice Abbott; Physical Science
Study Committee of Educational
Services, Inc.; Watertown, Mass.

Charles Darwin: The Evolution of an American Museum of Natural History.

Evolutionist.

The Beginnings of Flight-____________. The William J. Hammer Collection of
Aeronautical Photographs; Paul Gar-
ber, National Air Museum, Smithson-
ian Institution.

Two Centuries of Danish Deep Sea Hans Madsen, Zoological Museum, Co-

Research. penhagen; scientific committee, Dr.
Hrik Bertelsen, Director, Danish Fish-
ery Research; Dr. Anton Bruun, Dr.
Ragnar Sparck and Dr. Helge Volsoe,
University of Copenhagen; Danish
Embassy, King Frederik and Queen

Ingrid.
History
The Magnificent Enterprise. Campo Photocolor Bxhibits; Vassar
Education Opens the Door. College Centennial Celebration.
The New Theatre in Germany_______~ Pepsi-Cola Company ; German Embassy.
Tropical -Atri cays sis ae ee De Twentieth Century Fund; George H. T.

Kimble, Chairman, Department of
Geography, University of Indiana.
Tropica Atrial ees es Lee Twentieth Century Fund; George H. T.
Kimble, Chairman, Department of
Geography, University of Indiana.

Children’s Exhibitions

Symphony.iny Colors= John Herron Art Institute; Junior
Group of the Indianapolis Symphony
Orchestra.
Paintings and Pastels by Children of New York-Tokyo Sister City Affiliation;
Tokyo. Tokyo Society for Art Education.
Childrens Are fromMitaly= 22. = Junior Museum of the Metropolitan

Museum of Art, New York; Professor
Sergio Pagiaro.

Hawaiian Children’s Art_______-_____ Honolulu Academy of Arts.

Designs by Children of Ceylon_______- Junior Museum of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art; Art Inspector of
Ceylon.

Children’s Paintings from Chile_____~- Mrs. Walter Howe, wife of Ambassado

of Chile; Museum of Fine Arts,
Santiago.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 107

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES

In addition to the approximately 16,000 requests for information
received by mail and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office
numbered 1,500. In all, 167 works of art were examined by the Di-
rector.

Special catalogs were published for the following traveling exhibi-
tions: Italian Drawings, Sardinian Crafts, Irish Architecture of the
Georgian Period, and The World of Werner Bischof. <A special cata-
log of Traveling Exhibitions for 1961-62 was also published. A 64-
page illustrated brochure containing a cover design and introduction
by Thomas M. Beggs was published for the Arts and Archeology of
Viet-Nam exhibition.

The director visited several European countries to study art gal-
leries, their establishment, and their relationships with government
and other organizations, to confer with museum officials, collectors,
and donors to the collections, and also to inspect historic buildings in
process of restoration.

Six paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent collections were
cleaned and revarnished, and 28 picture frames were repaired and
refinished with the assistance of Buildings Management Service, which
constructed and finished frames for four etchings.

Albert C. Wagner restored the French Ship model (No. 442) in
the Gellatly Collection and Joseph Ternbach restored the following
items from that collection: two Oriental pins, gold and glass (No.
187) ; Saint, alabaster (No. 377) ; Spanish King, wood (No. 569) ; St.
George, wood (No. 381); St. Peter, alabaster (No. 378).

Contracts were let for the relining and restoring by Harold F. Cross
of the following: Ariadne, by Wyatt Eaton; Charles G. Abbot, by
Nicholas Brewer; Pegasus, by Albert P. Ryder; Robert Hare, by Al-
van Clark; Richard Delafield, by Charles C. Curran; Cup of Death,
by Elihu Vedder; Laura Alice, by Alice Pike Barney; The Brown
Kimona, by Irving Wiles; Italian Woman and Child, by Alice Pike
Barney ; and two small landscapes by Alice Pike Barney.

Henri G. Courtais is under contract for renovation of the follow-
ing paintings: St. Ursula, by undetermined artist; Virgin Enthroned,
by Abbott H. Thayer; Thomas George Hodgkins, by Robert Gordon
Hardie; Spencer Fullerton Baird, by Robert Gordon Hardie; Rich-
ard Rush, by T. W. Wood; Joseph Henry, by Henry Ulke;; Charles
Doolittle Walcott, by Samantha B. Huntley; Ruins, by Francesco
Guardi; Young Girl Seated, by Thomas Dewing; Music, by Thomas
Dewing; The Golden Age, by John LaFarge; Amagansett to East
Hampton, by George Bogert; Duchess of Ancaster, by Sir Joshua
Reynolds; Mrs. Price, by William Hogarth; Smuggler’s Notch, by
Chauncey Ryder; The Island, by Edwin W. Redfield; and Viscountess
Hatton, by Sir Peter Lely.
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

July 15 through August 7, 1960. Folk Art from Rumania, circulated by the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisted of colorful costumes, em-
broideries, rugs, ceramics, icons, musical instruments, photomurals of villages
and buildings, together with a reconstructed room from a cottage in the district
of Transylvania. A brochure was privately printed.

August 14 through September 8, 1960. Fourth Biennial Creative Crafts Ex-
hibition, sponsored by the Ceramic Guild of Bethesda, Cherry Tree Textile De-
signers, Clay Pigeons Ceramic Workshop, Designers-Weavers, Potomac Crafts-
men, and the Kiln Club of Washington, consisted of 220 items including 116
ceramics and glass, 77 textiles, 15 metalwork, 6 Jewelry, and 6 mosaic. A cata-
log was privately printed.

September 17 through October 6, 1960. 67th Annual Exhibition of the Society
of Washington Artists, consisted of 70 paintings and 27 sculptures. A catalog
was privately printed.

October 18 through November 10, 1960. Two Centuries of Danish Deep Sea
Research, circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting
of maps, photographs, charts, specimens, and scientific equipment. A brochure
was privately printed.

October 26 through December 8, 1960. Art and Archeology of Viet Nam, spon-
sored by the Embassy of Viet Nam, centered about the Cham Civilization sup-
plemented by contemporary crafts. It consisted of 148 archeological items (in-
cluding the Oc-eo treasure) lent by the Vietnamese National Museums of Saigon
and Hue and augmented by loans from the Peabody Museum, Harvard Univer-
sity, Musees Royaux du Cinquantenaire, Brussels, Belgium, and private collec-
tors. There were also shown, in Hall 22, Natural History Building, 196 con-
temporary crafts items from Viet Nam.

Following its showing at the National Collection of Fine Arts, the exhibition
was divided to be circulated in two sections as follows: Archeological sec-
tion—Baltimore Museum of Art; Cleveland Museum of Art; University Museum
of University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia; City Art Museum of St. Louis;
Portland Art Museum; and University of California, Berkeley; contemporary
crafts section—Columbia University ; Brandeis University ; Michigan State Uni-
versity; and Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego. An illustrated catalog was
printed.

November 27, 1960, through January 5, 1961. Twenty-third Anniversary of
the Metropolitan Art Exhibition, sponsored by the American Art League, con-
sisted of 163 items, including 129 paintings, 14 prints and drawings, and 20
sculptures. A catalog was privately printed.

December 9, 1960, through January 10, 1961. Aviation Paintings and Draw-
ings by Charles H. Hubbell, sponsored by the National Air Museum, consisted
of 150 paintings. A catalog was privately printed.

January 15 through February 5, 1961. The Victorian American, circulated by
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of a selection of 100
lithographs from the Harry T. Peters Collection.

February 11 through March 5, 1961. The World of Werner Bischof, sponsored
by the Ambassador of Switzerland and circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling
Exhibition Service, consisted of 80 photographs.

March 12 through April 2, 1961. The 64th Annual National Exhibition of the
Washington Water Color Association, consisting of 104 paintings. A catalog was
privately printed.

April 9 through April 30, 1961. New Jersey Chapter American Artists Profes-
sional League, sponsored by the New Jersey State Society of Washington, D.C.,
consisted of 107 paintings and 2 sculptures. A catalog was privately printed.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 109

April 20 through April 29, 1961. Coins and Currency of Yesteryears, spon-
sored by the Washington Numismatic Society.

May 6 through May 28, 1961. The New Theater in Germany, sponsored by
the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany and circulated by the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibtion Service, consisted of photographs showing
German stage design, architecture, drama schools, and organization of theaters.
A brochure was privately printed.

May 7 through May 28, 1961. The Twenty-Highth Annual Exhibition of the
Miniature Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D.C.,
consisting of 179 items. A catalog was privately printed.

May 26 through 30, 1961. Exhibition commemorating the 100th Anniversary
of the birth of Rabindranath Tagore, sponsored by the Embassy of India,
consisted of 40 reproductions of paintings by Tagore.

June 3 through 25, 1961. Washington Religious Art Exhibition, sponsored by
the National Conference of Christians and Jews, Washington, D.C., Region,
consisted of 103 items including 74 paintings and prints, 16 sculptures, 10
ceramic and glass objects and 3 textiles. A catalog was privately printed.

June 9 through August 18, 1961. The World of Shells, a special exhibition in
connection with the annual meeting of the American Malacological Union.

Respectfully submitted.
Tuomas M. Braas, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Srr: I have the honor to submit the forty-first annual report on
the Freer Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 30, 1961.

THE COLLECTIONS

Forty-one objects were added to the collections by purchase as
follows:
BRONZE

60.18. Chinese, Shang dynasty. Vessel of the type ting. Decorations in relief
and in intaglio with cuprite and quartz filling up the fossae. One in-
scription inside of one or maybe two characters. Over-all height,
0.245; diameter, 0.186.

‘60.19 Chinese, Chou dynasty, ca. 10th-9th century B.C. Ceremonial vessel of
the type kuei, with two handles, a cover and three short legs. The cast
decorations (fluting and animal bands) are mostly in low relief except
for the handles which are in the round. Patination of gray-green tin
oxide is spotted here and there with touches of cuprite. Inscription
of 36 characters in top-and bottom. Height, 0.249; diameter, 0.263.

60.20 Chinese, Chou dynasty, Vessel of the type yu. Body of vessel is deco-
rated with two bands near top and base, and cover of vessel has one
band. Bail handle is more ornate, being affixed by rings and terminat-
ing in animal heads in the round. Patina is dark green, and decorations
are in low relief and intaglio. Inscription in top and bottom is in 28
characters. Over-all height, 0.222; width, 0.197.

61.3. Chinese, Han dynasty, 206 B.C.-A.D. 221. Dragon. Decoration over-all in
intaglio and very low relief. This animal is cast in the round; light
gray-green patina. Height, 0.193; length, 0.366; width, 0.137.

METALWORK

61.12. Chinese, Ming dynasty, 16th century. Squat tripod of copper covered
with cloisonné enamels in red, white, blue, green, yellow, and aubergine
on light blue ground; lotus scrolls around sides and fruit underneath ;
elaborate gilt feet and handles of later date; carved wood cover and
jade finial. Minor repairs. Over-all height, 0.181; height without
cover, 0.140; diameter, 0.190.

61.22. Persian, Parthian period, 3d-lst century B.C. Heart-shaped gold orna-
ment, possibly part of buckle, with two boars in a thicket indicated
by leaves; cast mostly in high relief with black resin filling the void
in back, heads in the round. Ten small loops evenly spaced along edge
of back served for sewing on. Height, 0.053; width, 0.050; depth, 0.010.

PAINTING

60.24. Chinese, Ming dynasty, by Tung Ch‘i-ch‘ang (1555-1636). Landscape:
ink on paper. One inscription and six seals on the painting. Kakemono:
height, 1.282; width, 0.383.

110
Secretary's Report, 1961 PLATE 3

60.15

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.
Secretary's Report, 1961 PLATE 4

{
|
|

60.16

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.
Secretary’s Report, 1961 PLATE 5

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.

PLATE 6

cretary's Report, 196]

Se

#
w

<

vee Pree ae a a it

ON ent,

a

£

St pd ig We OR CAE to

“WIV jo Alay] es) J9oI qf 944 jo SUOT}I9][O9 9} OF uOT}Ippe JUIIIY
819

= jammer ocapanar tae ee A aR Eile BRE RRR (ttt alee eR eet 2 eae AS Ae SARE cdr ein 5 oe a Ee

60.25.

60.26.

61.10.

61.11.

60.14.

60.15.

60.27.

60.28.

60.17.

60.21.

60.22.

60.23.

60.31.

61.1-
61.2.

61.4-

SECRETARY’S REPORT Fit

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, by Hua Yen (1682-1755). Ten album leaves of
birds, flowers, ete.; ink and colors on paper. Average dimensions:
height, 0.318 ; width, 0.454. (Illustrated.)

Chinese, Ming dynasty, 16th century, dated 1547, by Ch‘iu Ying. Narcissus
and flowering apricots in ink and colors on paper. Kakemono: height,
0.495 ; width, 0.246.

Chinese, Ming-Ch‘ing dynasty, by Ch’en Hung-shou (1599-1652). Album
of eight leaves: landscapes and figures. Signature of artist and one
seal plus one collector’s seal on each leaf. Inscriptions (quatrains) by
the artist on opposite leaves, each with signature and two seals. Two
inscriptions and eight seals on double leaf following paintings; ink
and colors on paper. Average dimensions: height, 0.335; width, 0.2738.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, by Kung Hsien (b. ca. 1610, d. 1689). Winter
landscape; two seals on painting and two on mount. Album leaf in
ink on paper. Height, 0.205; width, 0.340.

Indian, third quarter of 16th century (ca. 1560-80), Mughal period, school
of Akbar. “Sa‘id arrives with Khish Khurram on the roof of the
castle; sees two girls wrestling.” Miniature from Hamza-ndma, executed
for Emperor Akbar. One of a set: 49.18 and 60.15. Painting: height,
0.676 ; width, 0.513.

Indian, third quarter of 16th century (ca. 1560-80), Mughal period, school
of Akbar. “Umar in disguise of surgeon Mizzmuhil arrives before the
Fort of Antalya (?).” Miniature from Hamza-nadma, executed for
Emperor Akbar. One of a set: 49.18 and 60.14. Painting: height,
0.673 ; width, 0.512. (Illustrated.)

Indian, end of 16th century, Mughal period, school of Akbar. “Prince
Salim with a courtier and attendants in a tent.” Painted in gold and
colors; framed by gold-flecked borders of various widths to form part
of an album. Inscription in devanagari characters on back. Painting:
height, 0.170; width, 0.114.

Indian, ca. 1595, Mughal period, school of Akbar. “Akbar, enthroned,
gives an audience before a pavilion.” Painted in gold and colors. Akbar’s
nose and forehead repainted; small piece of pigment below vizier’s
mouth chipped off. Framed by inner buff border with floral decoration
in gold; outer border rose-colored and gold-specked. Painting: height,
0.261; width, 0.142.

Japanese, Ashikaga period, Idealistic Chinese school, 16th century, at-
tributed to Gakud. Rocky landscape with wild geese; ink and colors on
paper. Kakemono: length, 0.440; width, 0.330.

Japanese, early Momoyama period, Tosa school, late 16th century. Battle
scene, Fan-shaped; ink, color, and gold leaf on paper. Kakemono:
height, 0.245; width, 0.545.

Japanese, Edo period, Nanga school, by Ikeno Taiga (1723-76). “One
hundred old men gathering for a drinking party”; ink, color, and gold
on silk. Makimono: height, 0.538 ; width, 2.923.

Japanese, early Ashikaga period, by Kao (fl. in 14th century). Kanzan;
ink monochrome on paper. Kakemono: height, 1.025; width, 0.309.
Japanese, Edo period, Decorative school, by Sakai Hoitsu (1761-1828).
“The thirty-six master poets”; ink, colors, and gold on silk. Kakemono:

height, 1.361 ; width, 0.677.

Japanese, Edo period, Nanga school, by Baiitsu (1789). Landscape.
A pair of six-fold screens in ink and slight colors on paper. Painting:
height, 1.530; width, 3.556.

Japanese, Edo period, Nanga school, by Buson (1716-83). Landscape,
112
61.5.

61.6.

61.8.

60.13.

60.16.

60.29.

61.18.

61.14.

61.15.

61.16.

61.17.

61.18.

61.19.

61.20.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

figures and wind in willows. A pair of six-fold screens in ink and
colors on silk. Height, 1.665; width, 3.710.

Japanese, Heian period, Buddhist school, 12th century. Nyoirin Kannon;
ink, colors, silver, and gold on silk. Kakemono: height, 0.777; width,
0.405.

Japanese, Ashikaga period, Tosa school, artist unknown. Utatane
Monogatari (The tale of Utatane) ; ink and color on paper. Makimono;
height, 0.188; width, 10.873. (Illustrated.)

POTTERY

Chinese, Shang dynasty. Figure of a crouching stag with horns; fine-
grained light buff stoneware; hollow with opening in back; linear
designs all over body and head. Height, 0.172; length, 0.175; width,
0.063.

Chinese, T‘ang dynasty, San-ts‘ai ware. Figure of a seated man with
black beard and Armenian features holding a wine skin; buff stoneware
with transparent glaze. Height, 0.832; width, 0.173. (Illustrated.)

Chinese, T‘ang dynasty, San-ts‘ai ware. Figure of a standing female; buff
stoneware with transparent glaze; finely crackled ; unglazed head shows
remains of painting. Height, 0.853 ; width, 0.156.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty. Ovoid vase with tall cylindrical neck; fine-
grained white porcelain with transparent glossy glaze decorated in
eolored enamels over glaze; a landscape with palaces; poem of 14
characters; three simulated seals; four-character Ch‘ien-lung mark in
blue enamel on base. Height, 0.196; width, 0.098.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, early 15th century. Large dish with plain rim
and unglazed base; fine white porcelain with transparent, thick glaze
with some orange-peel effect; decorated in underglaze blue; a control
landscape with rock, coxcomb, etc., and eight flower and fruit sprays in
cavette; outside, “three friends.” Height, 0.095; diameter, 0.680.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, early 18th century (K‘ang-hsi). Dish with rim
of interlocking rings; fine white porcelain with transparent glaze,
decorated in overglaze famille verte enamels and gold, dragons and
floral patterns, iron-red dragon on base. Height, 0.045; width, 0.105.

Chinese, T‘ang dynasty. Low round box with cover; creamy white
porcelain, medium grain, with transparent, smooth, off-white glaze and
no decoration. Height, 0.045; diameter, 0.105.

Chinese, Sung dynasty, ting ware. Dish with plain rim bound in brass;
fine, off-white porcelain with transparent glaze with teardrops outside.
Decorated with fish and lotus plants inside. Height, 0.060; diameter,
0.304.

Chinese, Sung dynasty, ting ware. Dish with plain rim bound in copper;
fine off-white stoneware with transparent glaze with teardrops outside;
decorated with molded bird and flower patterns inside. Height, 0.056;
diameter, 0.291.

Chinese, Sung dynasty, northern celadon. Bowl with small foot and
slightly flaring rim; grayish-brown stoneware with transparent,
grayish-green bubbly glaze; molded decoration inside of two babies
amid flowering vines. Height, 0.049; diameter, 0.121.

Chinese, Sung dynasty, northern celadon. Bowl with small foot and
slightly flaring rim ; grayish-brown stoneware with transparent, grayish-
green bubbly glaze; decorated inside with molded fish among waves.
Height, 0.037; diameter, 0.094.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 113

60.30. Japanese, Momoyama period, oribe ware. Tray in the form of two fans
with vertical sides and arching handles; coarse, buff stoneware with
transparent glaze, decorated with brown, green, and white designs.
Over-all height, 0.143; width, 0.284.

61.9. Japanese Momoyama period, shino ware. Round dish with lip folded in
and squarish at the rim; three low loop feet and three spurmarks ;
rough stoneware with thick, bubbly crackled, mottled reddish-brown
and gray glaze; decorated with floral designs in white slip under glaze.
Height, 0.057 ; width, 0.170.

61.7. Mesopotamian, 10th century. Bowl of pale yellow-brown luster painted
on a tin glaze; the design on the interior is a horseman turned toward
the right holding a flag; broken and repaired, but only tiny pieces
missing and replaced by plaster. Height, 0.058; diameter, 0.235.

61.21. Persian, mid-12th century, lakabi ware; large platter with carved design
of horseman wielding a sword; set against arabesque background.
Broken and mended with few missing pieces replaced by plaster.
Height, 0.086; diameter, 0.408.

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTION

Fifteen Chinese, Japanese, and Korean objects were restored, re-
paired, or remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition, one large rubbing
was mounted for the University of Michigan and repairs or remount-
ing completed for six Japanese screens in private collections. Re-
pairs and regilding of 18 frames for American paintings were done
outside the Gallery.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 134, as follows:

American art: Japanese art:
Oilgeeten en oe ae ee oat eee 18 PRIN GINS sts a eye eee ee 18
Chinese art: Pottery. =e se A ALS 5
“Bi y0i0 Vo eee eee Spe ess eee eee 8 Wioodsculptures 294) 225208528. 2
TSR GTS Na a ste 2| Korean art:
LE Re gr ee ee 6 Bronze. = 3.2 ka ee oe 3
Htone sculptures = 22-4555 5 1 AEN GIS BARONET RI rade NER A PO oe Oy 7
Christian art: Metalwork ore so ea ee 6
Crystalee eens ee Wi se 1 Paintings: ) 22 2 2e ek Sea 3
Gl ascites Set ys bn hed oy. fal B 2 Pottenye ys. eres nies fetes _ 19
Colds oe epee 6| Near Eastern art:
Indian art: Metalwork 22 525 lea 2
IPSINGIn A= 2 oes ae 2 Painbin esses eee eee sae 12
Pottery mas ene ee ee 10
Stone sculptures. 2/2202 -2 1
LIBRARY

One of the high spots of the year was the “Bronze Symposium”
held at the Freer Gallery, which brought specialists from all over
the United States, Canada, and Australia. An exhibition of books
in this special field was arranged in the library and proved a busy
place during the visitors’ free time.

During the year 594 acquisitions were added to the library by title,
267 by gift and exchange from other institutions and individuals,
114. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

and 827 by purchase. Among the outstanding purchases were
Nihon shiicho shina-kodé seika (selected relics of ancient Chinese
bronzes from collections in Japan), compiled by Sueji Umehara and
issued in a limited edition in six volumes, 1960-61; Shdsdin Homotsu
(treasures of the Shdsdin), which is to be completed in 1962 in three
folio volumes; Figure prints of Old Japan, a pictorial pageant of ac-
tors and courtesans of the eighteenth century reproduced from the
prints in the collection of Marjorie and Edwin Grabhorn, with an
introduction by Harold P. Stern, San Francisco, 1959. Xero-
graphic copies of microfilms of two rare manuscripts were made. (1)
Téban shimpin zukan (album of sword guard masterpieces). This
illustrated manuscript written in 1783 (De Rosny’s catalogue) and
never published is now in the Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm, Nor-
denskjéld Collection, No. 525. In 1912 Henri L. Joly made a copy
and translation and issued privately 15 copies, none of which has
been located. (2) Wu Ch‘i-chen shu-hua chi (record of calligraphy
and painting seen by the author, Wu Ch‘i-chen), written in mid-17th
century giving the descriptions of the works, comments, and infor-
mation on the collections owning them, with the dates on which he
saw them. Six volumes of text with one volume of catalogue or in-
dex. A copy of the manuscript is in the Ssu-k‘u-ch‘tian-shu (the
good repository of manuscripts of Chinese books) but the book was
never printed(?). The copy in the Gunnar Martin Collection, Stock-
holm, was presumably copied from the Ssu-k‘u-ch‘tian-shu manuscript,
and is the only copy outside China(?). The book is of particular
importance because the author saw many of the important collections
of his day and records their contents carefully. Many of the paint-
ings he describes are still extant in the Ku-kung Collection, the Freer
Gallery of Art, and other collections. Two outstanding gifts were
Chinese painting, by James F. Cahill, Geneva, Skira, 1960 (gift of
author) ; Persian painting by Basil Gray, Geneva, Skira, 1961 (gift
of publisher).

The year’s record of cataloging included a total of 967 entries of
which 534 analytics were made, and 197 new titles of books, pamphlets
and scrolls were cataloged. Only one-ninth of the cards required
were available in printed cards from the Library of Congress.

The current state of the cataloging has given opportunity for
special projects. Mrs. Hogenson began indexing the correspondence
of Charles Lang Freer. Mrs. Usilton prepared a subject index for
Technical Studies in the Field of Fine Arts, vols. 1-10; revised and
enlarged the Bibliography for the Chinese Outline; and continued
to serve as assistant editor of JJC Abstracts; Abstracts of the Tech-
nical Literature of Archaeology and the Fine Arts.

There were 162 requests for bibliographic information by tele-
phone and letter. In all, 515 scholars and students who were not
SECRETARY’S REPORT 115

members of the Freer staff used the library. Thirteen of these saw
and studied the Washington Manuscripts and five came to see the li-
brary installation. Students at Columbia University and Catholic
University of America, who were completing their graduate work
in library science, made surveys of the library as a part of their
required studies.

Lou Cushing Harden, University of Rochester, served as volunteer
for the intern program for the summer. This program is intended to
give students a rounded experience in the general operation and
purposes of a gallery, and to broaden their familiarity with the field
of art in general.

PUBLICATIONS

Two publications were issued by the Gallery as follows:

Ars Orientalis, Vol. IV. 17 articles in English, French, or German, 21 book
reviews, 1 bibliography, 5 notes, 2 memorials. 462 pp., 148 collotype pls., text
ill. (Smithsonian Institution Publication 4431.)

Second presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal, a brochure issued in con-
junction with the presentation to Prof. Ernst Ktihnel, May 3, 1960, honoring
this eminent scholar for his outstanding contributions and achievements in the
field of Near Eastern art.

Publications of staff members were as follows:

CAHILL, JAMES F. Chinese art treasures. (See under Pope.)

Chinese painting. Geneva, Skira, 1960. 211 pp. with 100 col. ills.

(Treasures of Asia.)

The Chinese Imperial art treasures. Horizon, a magazine of the arts,

vol. 3 (Jan. 1961), pp. 14-25, 8 col. pls.

“Concerning the I-p‘in style of painting,” by S. Shimada. Translated by

James F. Cahill. Oriental Art, n.s., vol. 7 (Summer 1961), pp. 66-74.

Confucian elements in the theory of painting. In “The Confucian

Persuasion,” edited by Arthur F. Wright. Stanford, Stanford University

Press, 1960, pp. 115-140.

A rejected portrait by Lo P‘ing; pictorial footnote to Waley’s Yiian

Mei. Arthur Waley anniversary volume, London, Lung Humphries, 1959,

pp. 32-389, pls.

The Six Laws and how to read them. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp.

372-881.

. Review of “Some Tang and pre-T‘ang texts on Chinese painting.”
Edited and translated by W. R. B. Acker. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961),
pp. 440-444.

ETTINGHAUSEN, RicHarD. Automata: Islam. Hncyclopedia of world art, New
York, 1960, vol. 2, cols. 185-186, pl. 77. (Also published in Italian edition,
Rome, 1960.)

The Hmperor’s choice. De Artibus opuscula XL: Essays in honor of

Erwin Panofsky, edited by Millard Meiss, New York, N.Y. University Press,

1961, vol. 1, pp. 98-120, and vol. 2, figs. 1-19 on pls. 27-35.

The iconography of a Kishan luster plate. (Co-author, Grace D. Guest.)

Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 25-64, 74 figs. on 22 pls.

116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

ETTINGHAUSEN, Ricuarp. The Illuminations in the Cairo Mosche-b. Asher-
Codex of the Prophets ..., by R. H. Pinder Wilson with contributions by
R. Ettinghausen. Der Herbdische Bibeltext Seit Franz Delitzsch, by Paul
Kahle. Stuttgart, W. Kohlhammer Verlag, 1961, pp. 95-98.

Paintings of the sultans and emperors of India in American collections.

Bombay, Lalit Kala Akademi, 1961, 19 pp. 14 col. pls.

. Taklif (inlay). Urdu encyclopedia of Islam, Lahore, 1960, vol. 1,

pp. 597-607, 4 pls.

Review of “The Chester Beatty Library: A catalogue of the Persian

manuscripts and miniatures, vol. 1, MSS. 101-105,” by A. J. Arberry, M.

Minovi, and E. Blochet. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 393-396.

Review of “The Chester Beatty Library: A catalogue of the Turkish

manuscripts and miniatures,” by V. Minorsky. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961),

pp. 385-392.

Review of “Indian painting: Fifteen color plates,’ by W. G. Archer.

Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 397-3899, pls. 1-2.

Review of “The Nala-Damayanti drawings,” by Alvan Clark Hastman.

Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 396-3897.

Review of “Persian miniatures; the story of Rustum.” Introduction

and notes by William Lillys. Artibus Asiae, vol. 22 (1959), p. 268.

Review of “Turkisches Puppentheater. Versuch einer Geschichte des
Puppentheaters im Morgenland,” by Otto Spies. The Muslim World, vol. 50,
No. 3 (July 1960).

GETTENS, RUTHERFORD J. European conservation laboratories. Museum News,
vol. 39 (Dec. 1960—Jan. 1961), pp. 23-27, ills.

Teaching and research in art conservation. Science, vol. 183 (Apr. 21,
1961), pp. 1212-1216, 3 ills.

KATSUKI, TAKASHI. Review of “The beauty of ceramics,’ by Seizo Hayashiya.
Tokyo, Kawade Shobo, 1960. Far Eastern Ceramics Bulletin, vol. 12, No. 48
(June—Dee. 1960), p. 47.

Review of ‘‘Chinese ceramics, one hundred selected masterpieces from

collections in Japan, England, France and America,” ed. by Fujio Koyama.

Tokyo, Nihon Keizai, 1960. Far Eastern Ceramic Bulletin, vol. 12, No. 48,

(June—Dec. 1960), p. 48-49.

Translation of “Chidsen toji gaisetsu,” or general observations on
Korean ceramics, by Fujio Koyama. Far Eastern Ceramic Bulletin, vol. 12,
No. 43 (June—Dec. 1960), pp. 19-38, 6 pls.

Porr, JoHN ALEXANDER. Chinese art treasures, exhibited in the United States
py the Government of the Republic of China, Washington, 1961, 286 pp., pls.
(part col. and mount.) Text by John A. Pope, Aschwin Lippe, and James
F, Cahill.

Chinese art treasures cross the Pacific. The Connoisseur, New York,

vol. 147 (June 1961), pp. 231-240, col. front., 20 figs.

Review of “Dated Buddha images of Northern Siam,” by A. B. Griswold.
Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 446-452.

STERN, Harotp P. America; a view from the East. Antiques, vol. 79 (Feb. 19,
1961), pp. 166-169, ills.

A ninth-century eleven-headed Kannon. Worcester Art Museum An-

nual, vol. 8 (1960), pp. 1-7, front., 4 pls.

Obituary, James Marshall Plumer. Oriental Art, n.s., vol. T (spring

1961), p. 47.

SECRETARY’S REPORT ia lvs

Review of “Hokusai,” by J. Hillier. London, Phaidon Press, 1955.
Journal of Asian Studies, vol. 19 (Nov. 1959), pp. 87-88.

Review of “Graphie art of Japan, the Classical school,’ by Owen HE.
Holloway. Hollywood-by-the-Sea, Florida, Translantic Arts, 1957. The
Art Bulletin, vol. 42 (Dec. 1960), pp. 311-312.

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY

The photographic laboratory made 10,378 items during the year, as
follows: 7,363 prints, 864 negatives, 2,013 color slides, 100 black-and-
white slides, 38 color-film sheets. In all, 3,133 slides were lent during

the year.
BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The exterior walls appear to be sound and in good condition, but
plans are under way for roof repair during the next year.

Painting of structural steel in the attic was begun but not completed.
The cleaning of the interior limestone was finished, which improved
the general appearance greatly. All concrete floors were painted and
given a protective coat of wax.

In storage 14 all stone storage was confined to two walls by refitting
with new steel and wood shelving. The remaining area will be fitted
in the near future for the expansion of storage of various art objects
plus an examining table. Storage 16A is now under construction
to provide more space for storage and a research work area.

The doors leading from the main office to the anteroom were re-
designed and fitted with glass. The dais in Gallery V was completely
refinished. In the auditorium new drapes and stage curtain were
installed. A new projector was installed, and with this second
projector and the enlarged screen it is now possible to show two
slides side by side for comparison purposes for the lecture series.

Old boxwood plants from the courtyard were transplanted to the
north entrance of the building and smaller replacements were made
in the court. Lantana was planted around the fountain for the
summer season and appears to be doing well.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the
main entrance was 130,949. The highest monthly attendance was in
August, 19,576.

There were 2,140 visitors who came to the Gallery office for
various purposes—for general information, to submit objects for
examination, to consult staff members, to take photographs or sketch
in the galleries, to use the library, to examine objects in storage, etc.
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

AUDITORIUM

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:

1960
October 11. Dr. Nelson I. Wu, Yale University, “In Search of a New
Style in Chinese Painting.” Attendance, 155.
November 15. Dr. John D. Cooney, Brooklyn Museum, “Disasters in
Collecting.” Attendance, 142.
1961
January 10. Dr. Richard Edwards, University of Michigan, “Painting
of the Southern Sung.” Attendance, 142.
February 14. Professor Benjamin Rowland, Harvard University, “The
Translation of Indian Art to Central Asia.” Attendance,
2038.
March 14. Henry Trubner, Royal Ontario Museum, “Han Pictorial
Design.” Attendance, 113.
April 11. Professor George H. Forsyth, Jr., University of Michigan,

“The Fortified Monastery of St. Catherine at Mt. Sinai.”
Attendance, 202.

From June 12 to 14 a seminar on “Technical Studies of Ancient
Metal Artifacts” was held, the chief purpose of which was to gather
together specialists in ancient metals and other interested persons
from fields of Chinese art and conservation. Problems in analysis,
composition, fabrication, and alteration of ancient metal artifacts
were discussed with particular reference to Chinese ceremonial bronzes
in the Freer collections. Question periods and informal discussions
followed each of the 15 papers read by specialists from the United
States, Canada, and one from Australia. Attendance, 57, 44, and 52.

Outside organizations used the auditorium as follows:

The Bellhaven Woman’s Club held a short October18. Attendance, 40.
business meeting in the morning.

The United States Department of Agriculture
held meetings as follows:

Foreign Agriculture November 14. Attendance, 198.
May 22. Attendance, 499.

Federal Extension Service November 16. Attendance, 290.
March 20. Attendance, 181.

Food and Drug Administration November 23. Attendance, 95.

December 21. Attendance, 68.

February 15. Attendance, 76.

Mareh 15. Attendance, 63.

April19. Attendance, 101.

Mayi17. Attendance, 89.

June 21. Attendance, 72.
Marketing Division, Economic Research November 28-30. Attendance,

Conference 150, 195, and 109.
December 2. Attendance, 85.

Farmers’ Co-op Service December 13 and 15. Attend-
ance, 115 and 119.
4-H Clubs March 23. Attendance, 176.
SECRETARY'S REPORT

“The Story of Gosta Berling” (1923)
Sweden.

“Los Olivadados” (1951) Mexico.

“Munna” (1957) India, and “Song of

Ceylon” Great Britain (1934).

“Where Chimneys are Seen” (1953) Japan,
and “Fable for Friendship.”

“Warrebizue” (1947) France, and “Trut”
(1944) Sweden.

Three short films from the British Free
Cinema.

“The White Reindeer’ (1956) Finland,
and “Glimmering” (1948) France.

“Goja” (1951) Tunisia, and “Time Out
of War” (1955) France.

“Bab El-hadid” (1959) Egypt, and “N.Y.,

119

The Washington Film Society showed the following films:

April 6 and 7. Attendance, 254.

April 13 and 14. Attendance,
168.

April 20 and 21.
3 (3}

April 27 and 28. Attendance,
PANE

Attendance,

May 4 and 5. Attendance, 194.

May 11 and 12. Attendance,
209.

May 25 and 26. Attendance,
168.

June land 2. Attendance, 154.

June 8 and 9. Attendance, 275.

N.Y.” (1950) United States.
Alfred Friendly, of the Washington Post, lec-
tured on “Bushmen (African) Paintings.”
Washington Society of the Archaeological
Institute of America showed three films:
“Roman Mosaics,” “Colors in the Dark,” and
“Book Festivities.”

May 10. Attendance, 170.

Mayi18. Attendance, 229.

On May 2, seven members of the Washington Society of the Archae-
ological Institute of America held a Board Meeting in the Staff
Room, Dr. Ettinghausen, president, presiding.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, objects contemplated for purchase, and objects submitted
for examination, as well as to individual research projects in the fields
represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian, Arabic,
and Indian materials. Reports, oral and written, and exclusive of
those made by the technical laboratory (listed below), were made on
7,221 objects as follows: For private individuals, 5,438; for dealers,
874; for other museums, 909. In all 1,373 photographs were examined,
and 780 Oriental language inscriptions were translated for outside
individuals and institutions. By request, 23 groups totaling 550
persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by the staff
members. Two groups totaling 24 persons were given docent service
by staff members in the storage rooms.

Among the visitors were 64 distinguished foreign scholars or per-
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here
under the auspices of the Department of State to study museum ad-
ministration and practices in this country.

625325—62——9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

During the year the technical laboratory carried on the following
activities:

Objects examined by various methods including microscopic, microchemical,
X-ray diffraction, ultraviolet light, spectrochemical analysis, and specific
gravity determination:

Wreer objects examined=- = 92 2-_ = 0S ee 19
OUEST GD ORDA C Cte eek Tn ete a ee ee er 93

The following projects were undertaken by the laboratory during
the year:

1. For a period of three weeks, February 24 to March 15, Miss Elisa-
beth West worked as a guest in the Conservation Center of the Insti-
tute of Fine Arts, New York University, where she continued the
spectrochemical analyses of inscribed ceremonial bronzes from the
Freer collections.

2. In April 1961, R. J. Gettens, at the Conservation Center of the
Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, gave a seminar entitled
“Use of the Microscope in Examination of Works of Art.” Attend-
ance, 8.

3. R. J. Gettens continued as editor and Miss West as assistant editor
of J7C Abstracts published by the International Institute for Conser-
vation of Historic and Artistic Works, London, England.

4, Continued systematic collection of data on the technology of an-
cient copper and bronze in the Far East.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) :

1960
August 11. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Twenty-fifth International Con-
gress of Orientalists, Moscow, U.S.S.R., “Pre-Mughal-
Indo-Muslim Manuscripts.”
September 15. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the American School of Oriental Re-
search, Jerusalem, Israel, “The Interrelationship of
India and the Near East in the Middle Ages.”

October 20. Dr. Cahill, at Yale University, New Haven, Conn., “The
Coming Discovery of Chinese Paintings.”

November 1. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Ankara University, Turkey, “Variety
of Arts in Museums of Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey.”

November 13. Dr. Cahill, at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, “The Com-
ing Discovery of Chinese Paintings.”

November 14. Dr. Cahill, at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, “Great
Chinese Paintings in Far Hastern Collections.”

November 17. Dr. Cahill, at Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg,
Va., “In Search of Chinese Paintings.”

November 28. Dr. Cahill, at the Japan-America Society, Washington,
D.C., “The Southern School in Japanese Painting.”

1961
January 12. Dr. Stern, at Regents’ Dinner, Smithsonian Institution,

Washington, D.C., “Hokusai.”
January 19.
February 3.

February 6.

February 14-15.

February 23.
February 24.
March 10.
March 16.
March 24.
March 30.

April 3.

April 12.

April 15.

May 23.

May 23.

June 6-11.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 121

Dr. Ettinghausen, at Hermitage Foundation, Norfolk, Va.,
“TIslamie Art in the Mediterranean World.”

Dr. Ettinghausen began teaching a semester’s course on
“Tslamic Painting” at New York University.

Dr. Cahill began an academic course of lectures on Chinese
paintings at the American University, Washington, D.C.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at University of Southern Illinois, Car-
bondale, Ill., “Mughal Painting: A Critical Comparison.”

Dr. Stern, at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.,
“Japanese Paintings of the Tokugawa Period.”

Dr. Cahill, at the Institute of Contemporary Arts, Wash-
ington, D.C., “Chinese Art and the Contemporary West.”

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Foreign Service Institute, Wash-
ington, D.C., “Islamic Art.”

Dr. Cahill, at Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md., “Great
Chinese Paintings in Far Eastern Collections.”

Dr. Ettinghausen, at Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn.,
“Islamic Art.”

Dr. Cahill, at the Chinese Art Society, Asia House, New
York City, “Chinese Art and the Contemporary West.”
Dr. Pope, at the Far Eastern Luncheon Association, Carl-
ton Hotel, Washington, D.C., “The Chinese Exhibition.”

(Not illustrated.)

Dr. Stern, at the Birmingham Museum of Art, Birming-
ham, Ala., “Japanese Painting of the Tokugawa Period.”

R. J. Gettens, at the Conservation Center, Institute of Fine
Arts, New York University, ‘‘A Proposed Handbook for
Analysis of Materials of Art and Archaeology.”

R. J. Gettens, at the American Association of Museums
meeting, Detroit, Mich., “Maya Blue: An Unsolved Prob-
lem in Ancient Pigment.”

Elisabeth West, at the American Association of Museums
meeting, Detroit, Mich., ‘Efflorescent Salts on Museum
Objects.”

Dr. Cahill, at the National Gallery of Art, Washington,
D.C., gave seven lectures on “The Chinese Exhibition.”

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi-

ness as follows:

1960
July 1.

July 18-
December 16.

Dr. Stern, in New York City, examined objects at dealers
and in museums and private collections.

Dr. Ettinghausen attended the 25th International Con-
gress of Orientalists in Moscow on behalf of the Smith-
sonian Institution and the American Council of Learned
Societies, as well as the Cultural Seminar on Art and
Archaeology of the CENTO Powers, in Ankara, on be-
half of the Department of State. He also studied Is-
lamic objects, paintings, and manuscripts in the museums
and libraries of Dublin, London, Oxford, Paris, Hamburg,
Bukhara, Kabul, Teheran, Damascus, Jerusalem, Qusair,
‘Amra, Cairo, Istanbul, Ankara, Konya, Bursa, Vienna,
Milan, Florence, Bologna, Rome, Palermo, and Madrid.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

September 7-14.

September 8-23.

October 22.

November 5.

December 14-18.

1961
January 6.

January 9-10.

January 19.

January 23.

January 26.

February 17.
February 17-
March 20.

February 21—
April 10.

March 29—
April 1.
April 22.
April 28—
May 2.
May 4, 5.

May 12-16.

Dr. Stern, in New York City, examined objects at dealers
and in museums and attended exhibitions at the Mu-
seum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum.

Elisabeth H. West spent two weeks in England visiting
laboratories and conferring with members of various
staffs in London: Research Laboratory; British Mu-
seum; National Gallery of Art; Victoria and Albert Mu-
seum; Institute of Archaeology; Courtauld Institute of
Art; University of London; and the Percival David
Foundation of Chinese Art. Oxford: Research Labora-
tory for Archaeology and the History of Art.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined Chinese paintings
belonging to dealers and museums, and attended an ex-
hibition of Chinese paintings at Asia House.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined Chinese paintings
belonging to a private collector.

Dr. Stern and T. Sugiura, in New York City, attended an
official meeting of the Rockefeller Foundation; attended
the opening of the Modern japanese Craft Show at the
Museum of Decorative Arts; an exhibition of Japanese
screens at the Willard Gallery; the Rappert exhibition
at Asia House; and examined objects.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects.

Dr. Pope, in Boston, attended the final meeting of the Far
Hastern Ceramic Group.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects at
dealers.

Mr. Gettens, in New York City, attended meetings of the
Conservation Committee at the Institute of Fine Arts,
New York University.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, broadcast over THE VOICE
OF UNESCO, Riverside Radio program WRVR, on
“Books and the Artist.”

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects.

Dr. Pope, in Geneva, Switzerland, for consultations re-
garding printing of the catalogue for the Chinese
Exhibition.

Dr. Stern, in Chicago, Seattle, San Francisco, Santa Bar-
bara, Los Angeles, Kansas City, and Cleveland, examined
objects in museums, private collections and at dealers.

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined objects.

Dr. Cahill, in Chicago, examined objects.
Dr. Pope, in Chicago, examined objects.

Mrs. Lnor O. West, in the Boston area, attended the meet-
ings of the Museum Store Managers Association held in
the Museum of Fine Arts, Worcester Art Museum, and
Old Sturbridge Village.

Dr. Pope, in Philadelphia, appeared on the University
Museum’s WCAU-TYV program, WHAT IN THE WORLD,
later going on to New York City to examine objects.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 123

May 18-24. Dr. Stern, in Philadelphia, examined objects at the Phila-
delphia Museum of Art, and later, in New York City.

As in former years, members of the staff undertook a wide variety
of peripheral duties outside the Gallery, served on committees, held
honorary posts, and received recognitions.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. Wentey, Director.

Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Air Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1961:

Administrative studies and planning continued for the new Na-
tional Air Museum Building, pending the appropriation of planning
funds.

Many interesting and historically significant accessions were re-
ceived during the year. Among the more notable ones were a full-size
mock-up of an inertial guidance platform used for navigation in
space-flight vehicles, from the Autonetics Division of North American
Aviation, Inc.; an early Curtiss-built OX—5 aircraft engine, from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; the RVX 1-5, first re-
covered nose cone after a flight of intercontinental range, from the
U.S. Air Force; three additional volumes of Dr. Robert Goddard’s
notes on his experiments, from Mrs. Goddard; the XF8U-1 “Cru-
sader” airplane (the “One X”), from Chance Vought Aircraft Com-
pany and the U.S. Navy; the Hiller “Flying Platform,” from the
U.S. Army and Navy; memorabilia of Norman Prince of the Lafa-
yette Escadrille, from Frederick H. Prince, Jr.; Discoverer XIII,
first recovered orbiting satellite, from the U.S. Air Force; the “Que
Sera Sera,” first airplane to land at the South Pole, from the U.S.
Navy; 150 volumes of Pilots and Engine Manuals, from the Shell
Companies Foundation; the first camera to take stabilized motion
pictures of the earth from space, from the General Electric Company ;
the radio transmitter used by Adm. Richard E. Byrd in his historic
first flight over the South Pole; and a painting of astronaut Alan B.
Shepard, from Congressman James Fulton.

The name of the old Aircraft Building was changed to the Air and
Space Building to reflect the many famous firsts of space flight now
exhibited. During the fiscal year, 987,858 visitors to this renovated
display were counted. It is expected that the Mercury capsule “Free-
dom 7” will be placed in this building shortly.

Information service continued to increase during the year. The
museum now averages about 400 letters per month, furnishing histori-
cal, technical, and biographical information on air and space flight
to authors, researchers, schools, government agencies, and the public.

ADVISORY BOARD

No formal meetings of the Advisory Board were held. Individual
members were consulted from time to time.

124
SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

SPECIAL EVENTS

The following special presentation ceremonies were held during
the year. The RVX 1-5 nose cone, presented by Gen. Bernard A.
Schriever, USAF; a Beechcraft Executive airplane, presented by
George L. Lee, Sr., chairman of the board of the Red Devil Tool Co.;
the Able-Baker space flight equipment, presented by Lt. Gen. J. H.
Hinrichs, U.S. Army; the XF8U-1 “Crusader,” presented by Charles
J. McCarthy of Chance-Vought Company and Adm. James S. Russell
of the Navy; the Discoverer XIII satellite, presented by Gen. Thomas
D. White, Chief of Staff, USAF; and the first space camera, pre-
sented by Hilliard W. Page, general manager of the missile and space
vehicle department of the General Electric Company.

The Director attended the Air Force Association Annual Meeting
in San Francisco at which he was honored with the Alpha Eta Rho
Aviation Fraternity Award for contributions to Aviation Education.
He also attended the annual meeting of the National Aeronautic As-
sociation, the Lester D. Gardner Lecture by Gen. James H. Doolittle
at MIT, the dedication of the Paul Moore Research and Development
Center at Republic Aviation Corporation, and visited numerous
Army, Navy, Air Force, and NASA bases. He spoke frequently on
these visits, emphasizing the importance of the proper preservation
and recording of the history of space flight now being made.

Paul E. Garber, head curator and historian, and curators Louis S.
Casey and Kenneth E. Newland represented the air museum at a
number of aviation meetings during the year. Mr. Garber delivered
27 lectures.

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS

There have been continuous experimentation and improvements in
the Museum’s exhibits, reflected particularly in the renovated Air and
Space Building which has proved to be a valuable testing ground for
new methods of display, in anticipation of the new building.

REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION

Continued improvement in the facilities at the Silver Hill, Md.,
restoration and preservation division has been accomplished. This is
now a busy little aircraft “factory,” made out of storage space, pre-
serving and restoring aircraft and engines for display in the new
building. Examples of the work done are found in the Air and Space
Building.

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

Service and information was provided during the year to various
Government departments including the Federal Aviation Agency,
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Justice Department,
U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, Post Office Department, and Bureau of
Standards.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICE

This service grows in volume, and requires the majority of the
time of the curatorial staff. The historical research involved is val-
uable not only to the the authors, researchers, historians, students
and teachers served, but also to the Museum staff as potential material
for eventual Museum publications.

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Much useful material was added to the reference files, library,
and photographic files of the Museum during the year. This is very
valuable to the staff for providing information, authenticating data,
and for historical research.

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in pro-
viding this material is sincerely appreciated and acknowledged:

Arr Force Logistic CoMMAND, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio: Two
copies of the Index of Serial Numbers assigned to aircraft through fiscal
year 1958.

AITKEN, WILLIAM D., Jacksonville Beach, Fla.: One photostat of page 2 of the
Boston Herald, Dec. 5, 1909, magazine section and three photographs.

Amos, VINCENT S., St. Petersburg Beach, Fla.: 20 volumes aviation periodicals.

Anpo, Hipryo, Tokyo, Japan: Nine 4-x-5’’ photographs of Japanese aircraft.

ARMY BALLISTIC MISSILE AGENCY, REDSTONE ARSENAL, Huntsville, Ala.: 16-mm.
sound motion picture of “Recovery of Able-Baker Nose Cone,” edited copy of
ABMA-film No. 89, copy 3 unclassified.

Arnoip, Mrs. H. H., Sonoma, Calif.: A group of 36 photographs.

Backarp, P. H., Lockheed Aircraft Service Inc., Ontario, Calif.: Book, “The
Flying Flea,” by Henri Mignet.

BELL AEROSYSTEMS Co., Buffalo, N.Y. : Motion picture, “Report on Jet Propulsion.”

BorIne AIRPLANE Co., Seattle, Wash.: Photographs, several lithographed 3-view
drawings of aircraft (Boeing).

BrocKHAMPTON Press, Leicester, England: Book, “Hovercraft,” by Angela
Croome,

Brown, W. NorMAn, Toronto, Canada: Five 414-x-6’’ photographs.

BuckKLeEY, Mrs. W. W., Washington, D.C.: One 16-x-20’’ photograph of a Farman
airplane taking off from street between White House and State, War, and
Navy Building.

CANNON, JAMES, OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION, U.S. Atomic ENERGY COMMIS-
sIOoN, Washington, D.C.: Two photographs of atomic bombs (WWII).

CoLEMAN, “Coz,” New Orleans, La.: One 12-x-1514’’ photograph of Lindbergh.

Cox, JERE, BRANiIFF ArRWAYS, Dallas, Texas: 19 8-x-10’’ photographs (14 of
Braniff type of aircraft and 5 of presentation ceremonies and T. HB. Braniff) ;
organization chart; chart showing Braniff routes; also four fact sheets.

Dovueras ArRcRAFT Co., Inc., Santa Monica, Calif.: Two sets of drawings of
Douglas ‘““World Cruisers.”

Downer AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES, INCc., Alexandria, Minn.: Photographs, miscel-
laneous data on Bellanca 260.

EARLY BIRD ORGANIZATION, E. A. Goff, Jr.: Early Bird files.

FAIRCHILD ENGINEERING AND AIRCRAFT Corp., Hagerstown, Md.: Specifications of
the Fairchild F27 and F27A.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 127

Feazar, Mrs. Peart, San Diego, Calif.: Program of the International Air Meet
at Grant Park, Chicago, Aug. 12—20, 1911.

GEUTING, JOSEPH T., Washington, D.C.: Copy of “The 1961 Aerospace Year
Book.”

Grsson, CHRISTIAN D., RaymMonp Corp., Greene, N.Y.: 16 issues of Industrial
Aviation magazine, May 1944-August 1945.

GLENBOW FOUNDATION, Calgary, Alberta, Canada: Hight 8-x-10’’ photographs,
14 5-x-7’’ photographs, all of JL-6 type of aircraft.

GoppARD, Mrs. Rosert H., Worcester, Mass.: 1929 transcription of the material
in Vols. 1 and 2 of set of 20 volumes. Report on the development of liquid-
propelled rocket. Consists of 8 sections (837 pages) of transcript, and 8 re-
ports of August 1929, containing 398 234-x-4%4’’ photographs.

GReeson, Otis H., Washington, D.C.: 13 photographs of miscellaneous aircraft
and shows.

Hacert, Henry, Moorestown, N.J.: 28 copies of “Aero and Hydro” magazine from
December 1912 to July 1913.

HAWKS, CHARLES R., FEDERAL AVIATION AGENCY, Los Angeles, Calif.: 39 boxes
of engineering data on obsolete aircraft.

HorrMan, Mag. WM. WECKHAN, New York, N.Y.: One photo album; three artil-
lery School Manuals, WWI; one pictorial, “Belgium at War’’; one translation
of the campaign of the Belgium Army.

INTERNATIONAL CIvIL AVIATION AGENCY, Montreal, Canada: 16-mm. films, “Ap-
proach to Land GCA” and “Approach to Land ILS.”

JOHNSON, F. Roy, Murfreesboro, N.C.: Copies of two old prints of Henry Gat-
ling’s pre-Civil War gliders.

KNABENSHUE, Mrs. H. Roy, Arcadia, Calif.: Books, photographs, photo albums,
Magazines, newspaper clippings, airship log books, maps, drawings.

Korn, Epwarp A., East Orange, N.J.: Three photographs.

LIBRARY OF ConGREss, Nathan R. Hinhorn, Washington, D.C.: Miscellaneous.

LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT INTERNATIONAL, INC., Los Angeles, Calif.: Brochure contain-
ing news releases, photographs, and general information on Lockheed LASA-60
aircraft.

Martin Co., Baltimore, Md.: Drawings and photographs of Martin aircraft.
Picture history of the Martin Co. with 3-view drawings.

Massin, ALEx, Toronto, Ontario, Canada: 16 commemorative air mail envelopes.

MAYERMAN, SAMUEL, Philadelphia, Pa.: Four bound volumes of “American Avia-
tion.”

McGuinn, Capt. MicHaret E. III, New York, N.Y.: Drawing of 1906 and 1909
Eliehamer plane, magazines and clippings on Ellehamer.

Meap, Mrs. CLARENCE, Seattle, Wash.: Five photographs of Post-Rogers crash
scene.

MEYER, Corp, New York, N.Y.: Identification card of Lt. A. B. Thaw, II.

Motson, KEN M., Islinzton, Ontario, Canada: Book by Alan Sullivan, Lt. RAF,
“Aviation in Canada, 1917-1918.”

Myers, Frank A., Cleveland, Ohio: 20 pages of photostats of 1910-11 Harvard
Boston Aero Meets as reported in The Boston Evening Transcript, September
1910, August and September 1911.

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, BUREAU OF AERONAUTICS, Washington, D.C.: 53 photo-
graph albums.

NoorpvuyrNn, RoserT H., Irving, Texas: One photograph of Fokker T-2, one booklet
of Fokker aircraft.

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INc., Ronald MeVickar, Washington, D.C.: History, photo-
graphs of their airlines and two annual reports, 1958 and 1959.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Paar, GrorcE A., and PuRDUM, VERNON, AERONCA MANUFACTURING Corp., Middle
town, Ohio: 36 drawings of Aeronca: aircraft, E113A installation drawing,
low wing data report, production quantity listing (1930-44) miscellaneous
performance data sheets (2).

Pace, GeorcE, JR., Reynoldsburg, Ohio: National Geographic Magazine, 1918-46,
including photographs, negatives, blueprints (Curtiss). News clipping of
Ballooning.

Parker, FRED: One photograph scrapbook, two photographs, one book.

PoLITreELLA, Dario: Book, “Operation Grasshopper.”

RESEARCH Srupies INSTITUTE, Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Documents on the B-29
“Enola Gay” and organization.

REYNOLps, B. C., Santa Barbara, Calif.: Roland Rohlf’s chronology. Four tran-
scripts of personal interviews.

RUSSELL, FRANK F., New York N.Y.: Three photograph albums and assorted
photographs.

SEBOLD, R. C., GENERAL DyNAMIcS Corp., San Diego, Calif.: Two sets of 3-view
drawings, 1:16 scale of Convair F2Y-1 and Convair XE Y-1 airplanes.
SHIPMAN, ERNEST, INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES Corp., New York, N.Y.:
Photographs, photo album, correspondence, pamphlets, Hammer collection.
SrKorsky ArrcraFt, Stratford, Conn.: Photographs and reference material on the

Sikorsky S-61 and HSS-2 helicopters.

STRICKLAND, Mrs. P. O’MALLey, FEDERAL AVIATION AGENCY, Washington, D.C.:
Copy of ‘Leslie Takes the Skyroad.”

VERNON, VicTor, St. Petersburg, Fla.: Two scrapbooks.

Victory, Dr. JoHN F., Washington, D.C.: Bound book “L’Aeronautica Italiana
Nell ’Immagine, 1487-1875.”

WEBSTER, CLIFFORD L., West Palm Beach, Fla.: 185 photographs and 5 flight log
books.

WEEKS, Mrs. Harotp #., Brooklyn, N.Y.: Book of bound copies of The Weekly
Bulietin of the School of Instruction, Army Balloon School, Arcadia, Calif.,
dated 1918 through 1919.

WENTZEL, VOLKMAR, NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SocrETy, Washington, D.C.: Photo-
graph of early airship.

WILLIAMS, Cot. Davin M., Alexandria, Va.: Photo copy of diary.

ACCESSIONS
Additions to the National Aeronautical and Space collections re-
ceived and recorded during the fiscal year 1961 totaled 266 specimens
in 110 separate accessions, as listed below. Those from Government
departments are entered as transfers; others were received as gifts or
loans.

AERONCA MANUFACTURING Corp., Middletown, Ohio: An Aeronca E-113 engine
cut-away. (N.A.M.1176.)

Am Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio: Four
aircraft engines of World War I period. (N.A.M. 12138.) Ballistic Missile
Division, Calif.: Capsule that contained the measuring and recording instru-
ments during the Discoverer XIII experiment. (N.A.M. 1183.) Through
Marquardt Aircraft Company, Ogden, Utah: A Marquardt YRJ-43-MA-3
ram-jet engine, serial No. 00001, embodying the latest developments in the
ram-jet propulsion system. (N.A.M. 1184A.) Air Force Museum, Fairborn,
Ohio: A Russian Yakovlev 18 (YAK-18), post-World War II advanced trainer
and nuisance raider. (N.A.M. 1153.) Air Research and Development Com-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 129

mand, Dayton, Ohio: RVX 1-5, the first nose cone recovered after a flight of
intercontinental range. (N.A.M. 1159.)

AMERICAN MACHINE & Founpry Co., Springdale, Conn.: Model of a ground-effect
machine developed by Walter Crowley. (N.A.M. 1233.)

ARMY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, ARMY BALLISTIC MISSILE AGENCY, Huntsville, Ala. :
Hxact duplicate mockup of monkey Baker space capsule covered with lucite
walls (N.A.M. 1173) ; Able-Baker Project recovered nose cone (N.A.M. 1164) ;
two Explorer I satellites (first U.S. satellite in orbit) and two final-stage
power packs (N.A.M. 1163). ArMy ORDNANCE MIssILE CoMMAND, Redstone
Arsenal, Ala.: 12 varied-scale models of Army missiles and launch vehicles.
(N.A.M. 1175.) Army Exuipitrs, Cameron Station, Va.: 1:24 scale model of
Jupiter C with Explorer I satellite mounted on it. (N.A.M. 1151.)

ARNOLD, Mrs. H. H., Sonoma, Calif.: Memorabilia of Gen. H. H. Arnold, includ-
ing his personal flags of rank, dress uniform worn at his wedding, and eight
academic hoods for the various honorary degrees he received (N.A.M. 1246) ;
duty uniform of Gen. Arnold. (N.A.M. 1149).

AUSMUS, REINHARDT, Sandusky, Ohio: Two early aircraft propellers. (N.A.M.
1236.)

AUTONETICS Division, NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INc., Downey, Calif.: Full-size
mockup of inertial guidance platform used for navigation in nuclear sub-
marines and space vehicles. (N.A.M. 1146.)

AVIATION GAS TURBINE DIVISION, WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC, Kansas City, Mo.:
Westinghouse J—32 gas turbine engine produced in 1943-44 and the smallest
of this type of engine produced, developing 300 Ibs. thrust at 35,000 rpm.
(N.A.M. 1180.)

AzBE, Victor J., St. Louis, Mo.: Original letter written by Otto Lillienthal to
his brother Gustav, Oct. 25,1886. (N.A.M. 1152.)

Bates, Mortimer F., Burbank, Calif.: 1912 aviator’s helmet purchased from
Roold in Parisin1912. (N.A.M. 1182.)

BreecH AIrcRAFT Corp., Wichita, Kans.: Model of the Beech AT-7, a World War
II twin-engine advance pilot training aircraft. (N.A.M. 1230.)

CAIN, CHARLES W., Milwaukee, Wis.: An ashtray of aluminum from the tank
of the Bellanca airplane “Columbia” which twice flew across the Atlantic
Ocean in 1927 and 1930. (N.A.M. 1154.)

CARMELO, ALFREDO, Bethesda, Md.: Painting of Bevo Howard’s Jungmeister aero-
batic plane. (N.A.M. 1240.)

CHANCE VouGHT AIRcRAFT, INC., Dallas Tex.: Model of the Regulus I surface
to-surface missile (N.A.M. 1168) ; the Chance Vought XFS8U-1 “Crusader,”
popularly known as the “One X” (N.A.M. 1174).

ConvaAIR, DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMiIcs, San Diego, Calif.: Two scale models
of the Convair Atlas launch vehicle (N.A.M. 1224) ; 8-x-10’ photo montage
mural of the launching of an Atlas (N.A.M.) 1215).

CurTIss-WrkIGHT Corp., Woodridge, N.J.: 1:16 scale model of Curtiss A-1 air-
craft, the first U.S. Navy aircraft. (N.A.M. 1221.)

DooLitTLeE, GEN. JAMES H., Los Angeles, Calif.: Six items of personal memo-
rabilia: special awards, plaques, ete. (N.A.M. 1145.)

DuPont, F. V., Cambridge, Va.: Model of the Wright “B” airplane. (N.A.M.
1244.)

FEDERAL AVIATION AGENCY, Oklahoma City, Okla.: Radio equipment. (N.A.M.
m2.)

FULTON, CONGRESSMAN JAMES, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Loan of a painting of Alan
Shepard, America’s first man-in-space, painted by James Scalese of Pittsburgh.
(N.A.M. 1241.)
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

GENERAL Eectric, Philadelphia, Pa.: First camera to take pictures of earth
from outer space. (N.A.M. 1218.)

Goppakp, Mrs. EstHer C., Worcester, Mass.: Vols. 21, 22, and 23 of Dr. God-
dard’s notes on his experiments. (N.A.M. 1165).

GOLDEN, Bernig£, Asbury Park, N.J.: A propeller manufactured by the Simmons
Co. of Washington, D.C., of a very early vintage. Fitted with sprocket attach-
ment for chain drive. (N.A.M. 1148.)

GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT CorRP., Bethpage, N.Y.: Model of the Grumman F10OF
Jaguar fighter aircraft. (N.A.M. 12388.)

Hatt, ERNEST, Warren, Ohio: Fragments of aircraft and engines built by the
Wrights, Curtiss, and Bleriot. (N.A.M. 1237.)

HaArTMAN, ArTHUR J., Burlington, Iowa : Oil painting of early hot-air balloon
ascension at a county fair and a full-size cut-off release with model para-
chute. (N.A.M. 1251.)

HEINTZ, RALPH M., Los Gatos, Calif.: Antenna weight used on the “Floyd
Bennett” during its flight over the South Pole in 1929 (N.A.M. 1232) ; air-
craft transmitter used by Richard E. Byrd in his historic first flight over the
South Pole (N.A.M. 1223).

Hynan, Ray, Henrietta, N.Y.: Boeing F4B-4 single-engine biplane Navy
fighter of the early 1930 period. (N.A.M. 1248.)

ITALIAN GOVERNMENT, Air Attache, Washington, D.C.: Model of a Macchi
202 fighter, the most advanced fighter design produced by Italy in World
WarlIlI. (N.A.M. 1147.)

JovurTT, Cor. JouHN, Washington, D.C.: Trophy urn presented to a group of
Americans for their service to the Republic of China during World War II.
(N.A.M. 1239.)

KLEAN, LESTER E., Bensenville, Ill. : Model of the Curtiss JN4-D-2. (N.A.M.
1166.)

LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT CorP., Burbank, Calif. : 1:16 scale model of the Navy
submarine-launched missile, the “Polaris.” (N.A.M. 1249.)

MArtTIN CoMPANY, Baltimore, Md.: Model of early monoplane patrol bomber
(N.A.M. 1225) ; model of the SM68 Titan missile produced by the Martin
Company for the U.S. Air Force (N.A.M. 1222).

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, Cambridge, Mass.: Curtiss-built
OX-5 engine with manufacturer’s number 6329. (N.A.M. 1157.)

Massin, Atrex, Toronto, Ontario, Canada: Set of 12 U.S. Air Force insignia,
(N.A.M. 1214.)

McDONNELL AIRCRAFT Corp., St. Louis, Mo. : 1:3 scale model of the Mercury
capsule with escape tower (N.A.M. 1231); model of the McDonnell F4H-1
Phantom II (N.A.M. 1285) ; 12 1:16 scale models of aircraft produced by
the donor (N.A.M. 1242).

MEAD, CLARENCE H., Seattle, Wash. : Pontoon flat cap from Post-Rogers plane
wreck. (N.A.M. 1167.)

MESSERSCHMITT, A. G., Augsburg (through German Air Attache), Washington,
D.C.: Model, 1:16 size, of the famed Messerschmitt BF 109 single-seat,
single-engine fighter of World War II. (N.A.M. 1162.)

MIKESH, Capt. RoBERT C., Washington, D.C. : Models of two Japanese fighters.
(N.A.M. 1226.)

MiLLer, L. B., Tarpon Springs, Fla. : Leather flight coat-jacket that belonged
to Amelia Earhart. (N.A.M. 1227.)

Mopern ArT Founpry, New York, N.Y.: Purchase of bronze casting of plaster
bust of Dr. 8. P. Langley. (N.A.M. 1229.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT rt

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND Space AGENCY, Washington, D.C. : 14 framed
photographs of former members of the National Advisory Committee for
Aeronautics (N.A.M. 1161) ; 8-x-10’’ piece of skin used in construction of
100’-diameter “Echo” passive communication satellite (N.A.M. 1160).

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: Production version of Pratt &
Whitney J-57 jet engine (N.A.M. 1156). Nava Air Srarion, Patuxent, Md.:
Hiller Rotorcycle, one-place, portable helicopter (N.A.M. 1245). ExuHIsiTs
Section, Washington, D.C.: Models of technically and historically significant
Navy aircraft (N.A.M. 1234). Orrice or Navat ResearcH, Washington D.C.:
Hiller ducted platform (N.A.M. 1177). Bureau or Weapons, Washington,
D.C. Culver TD2C-1 target drone aircraft (N,A.M. 1196) ; Grumman TBF-1
Avenger, U.S. Navy torpedo bomber (N.A.M. 1197); Curtiss SB2C-5 “Hell-
diver” aircraft (N.A.M. 1198) ; Grumman FS8F-1D “Bearcat” aircraft, last of
the reciprocating-engine carrier-based fighters developed for World War II
(N.A.M. 1199) ; first airplane to have landed at the South Pole, “Que Sera
Sera,” an-R4D (N.A.M. 1200) ; Vought V-173 “Flying Pancake” full-size flying
model, built to examine the practicability of a low aspect ratio wing configu-
ration (N.A.M. 1201) ; specimen of Japanese attack aircraft developed in an-
ticipation of a “last ditch” defense of the Japanese homeland (N.A.M. 1202) ;
Grumman F4F (FM-1) manufactured by Eastern Aircraft (N.A.M. 1203) ;
North American SNJ-4 (AF AT-6), advanced trainer used by both the U.S.
Navy and the U.S. Army Air Force during World War II (N.A.M. 1204) ;
Vought F4U-1B “Corsair,” single-engine, single-place, inverted-gull-wing
fighter of World War II (N,A.M. 1205) ; Ryan FR-1 “Fireball,” single-place
twin-engine low-wing aircraft (N.A.M. 1206) ; specimen of the Kaman K-225
helicopter, the first such vehicle powered by a gas turbine engine (N.A.M.
1207) ; Piasecki PV-3 tandem-rotor helicopter, designed as a medium-range
rescue and cargo vehicle (N.A.M. 1208); Arado Ar-196A, twin float recon-
naissance monoplane used on the German battleship “Prince Eugene” (N.A.M.
1209) ; Dornier Do-335 “Pfiel (Arrow)” twin-tandem-engined heavy fighter,
developed by the German Air Force about 1942 (N.A.M. 1210) ; an example
of the Vought OS2U-3 scout observation type aircraft (N.A.M. 1186) ; Grum-
man F6F-3 single-engine, single-place, low-wing monoplane fighter of World
War II vintage (N.A.M. 1187) ; Douglas D-558-2 “Skyrocket,” rocket-powered
research aircraft, first to exceed twice the speed of sound (N.A.M. 1188) ;
Douglas SBD-6, of a type used extensively in the Pacific theater of opera-
tions during World War II (N.A.M. 1189); Interstate TDR-1 twin-engine,
low-wing monoplane, designed as a remote-control torpedo launching vehicle
(N.A.M. 1190); Naval Aircraft Factory N3N-3, single-engine two-place bi-
plane trainer of World War II vintage (N.A.M. 1191) ; Sikorsky JRS-1 am-
phibian aircraft (N.A.M. 1192); Boeing (Stearman) N2S-5 Kaydet, two-
place, biplane, primary training aircraft (N.A.M. 1193); Grumman JRF-2
“Petulant Porpoise”’ modified to take different experimental hull configura-
tions (N.A.M. 1193); Hiller HOE-1 ram-jet-powered helicopter (N.A.M.
1195) ; Navy-Curtiss TS-1 (TR-1), single-place biplane fighter-trainer of 1922
vintage (N.A.M. 1219) ; components of Navy-Curtiss NC-4, the first airplane
to cross the Atlantic Ocean (N.A.M. 1220); group of 34 exhibition models of
varying scale of Navy aircraft types (N.A.M. 1258).

PackarD, Patrick H., Ontario, Calif.: Airplane designed by M. Henri Mignet,
the first of this design built in the United States at the direction of Powell
Crosley. (N.A.M. 1158.)

Paten, Coir, Rhinebeck, N.Y.: Seven early aircraft instruments, mostly of
World War I vintage. (N.A.M. 1179.)
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Prrer Arrcrarr Corp., Lock Haven, Pa.: Models 1:16 size of the Piper Apache
PA-23, Aztec PA-23-50, and the Comanche PA-24 aircraft. (N.A.M. 1217.)

PRINCE, FREDERICH H., Jr., Long Island, N.Y.: Memorabilia of Norman Prince.
(N.A.M. 1181.)

Rep Devit Toots, Union N.J.: Beechcraft Model D-18-S, an example of an
executive transport. (N.A.M. 1171.)

RICKENBACKER, Capt. E. V., New York, N.Y.: A German World War I flyer’s
crash helmet and a log book showing flight operations of the 94th Squadron
(Rickenbacker’s). (N.A.M. 1247.)

RockweELL, Cot. Pau, Asheville, N.C.: Bronze reproduction of gold medal struck
to commemorate the launching of the French aircraft carrier “LaFayette.”
(N.A.M. 1248.)

Ryan AERONAUTICAL Corp., San Diego, Calif.: Two 1:20 scale models of Ryan-
developed aircraft, the FR-1 “Fireball” and the X-13 “Vertijet.” (N.A.M.
1155.)

SHarrer, CLeve F., San Francisco, Calif.: Experimental liquid-fuel rocket motor
and spring scale for measuring thrust, used by donor during period 1927 to
1932. (N.A.M. 1252.)

SHELL CoMPANIES FouNpDATION, Inc., Washington, D.C.: Handbooks, erection
and maintenance manuals for aircraft and engines. (N.A.M. 1212.)

SHOEMAKER, Jos., ESTATE of, Bridgeton, N.J.: Two aircraft of 1909-11 vintage.
(N.A.M, 1211.)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, SECRETARY’S Orrice, Washington, D.C.: Two guilded
metal copies of the Langley Medal which was awarded to Dr. Robert Hutch-
ings Goddard posthumously, June 28, 1960. (N.A.M. 1178.) ; DEPARTMENT OF
ARTS AND MANUFACTURES: Three examples of airplane tail-wheel tires pro-
duced by the B. F. Goodrich Company. (N.A.M.1185.)

Topp, H. S., Miami Springs, Fla.: A unique 5-cylinder, radial model aircraft
engine, complete with accessories and a 38-blade adjustable-pitch propeller.
(N.A.M. 1150.)

Tracy, DANIEL, Lakewood, Ohio: Model 1:16 size of the Curtiss R-6 racer,
winner of the 1922 Pulitzer Prize Race. (N.A.M. 1216.)

Unitep Controxt Corp., Seattle, Wash.: Aircraft warning tone generator for
Cessna 210. (N.A.M. 1170.)

WALKER, L. L., JR., Houston, Tex.: A group of 10 historically and technically
significant engines (N.A.M. 1250); wooden timing disk for a Hispano-Suiza
engine. (N.A.M. 1184.)

WATERMAN, Wawpo, San Diego, Calif.: The Waterman Aerobile, a unique ex-
ample of the airplane-automobile combination. (N.A.M. 1228.)

WRIGHT, OrvILLE, Estate or, Dayton, Ohio: The original Wright Brothers’ aero-
plane, invented and built by Wilbur and Orville Wright, and flown by them at
Kitty Hawk, N.C., December 17, 1903. (N.A.M. 1169.)

Respectfully submitted.
Pur 8. Horxins, Director.
Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Zoological Park

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June

30, 1961:
GIFTS

From the standpoint of both popular interest and rarity, the out-
standing gift of the year was the white tigress, Mohini of Rewa, which
arrived on December 4, 1960. This beautiful animal, cream colored
with brown to black stripes and ice-blue eyes, was the gift of the
Metropolitan Broadcasting Corporation of New York and Ralph Scott
of Washington, D.C. The Director of the National Zoological Park,
accompanied by Bert Barker, senior keeper of small mammals, flew
to India to select the tiger from a litter of four white cubs raised by
the Maharajah of Rewa and escort it to Washington. Thomas J.
Abercrombie, staff member of the National Geographic Magazine,
joined the Zoo men in Rewa to make photographs. The Maharajah
had captured a male white tiger cub in 1951, and when it was adult
mated it to a normal-colored Bengal tiger. The young were all the
usual orange color. Then he mated the white male to one of the
female offspring, and the resulting four cubs were all white. A
subsequent litter, from the same parents, had one orange and two
white cubs. Mohini was formally presented to President Eisenhower
on the White House lawn by John Kluge, president of the Board of
the Metropolitan Broadcasting Corporation, as a gift to the children
of America. Mohini, when she arrived, was a little over 2 years old
and weighed about 200 pounds. Her name is Hindi for Enchantress,
and she continues to enchant the throngs who daily come to see her.
She is the only white tiger in any zoo in the world at this time.

Through the efforts of Mrs. Ira J. Heller, the “Share Your Birth-
day Foundation”—an organization to promote international good will
among children—brought an Indian elephant as a gift from the chil-
dren of India and the Maharajah of Mysore to the children of
America. Ambika is a female approximately 9 years old and weighs
2,820 pounds. She arrived in the United States on April 14, 1961,
after a 47-day voyage on the S.S. Steel Architect of the Isthmian
Line. Between various appearances before school children in other
cities she is on deposit in the National Zoological Park, which will
eventually be her permanent home.

133
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

The Montana State Fish and Game Department, of Helena, Mont.,
sent to the Zoo five bighorn sheep and one Rocky Mountain goat, thus
helping to build up the collection of North American game animals.

The Department of External Affairs, Canadian Government, Ot-
tawa, gave a pair of Canadian beavers. On May 31 they were for-
mally presented by the Speaker of the Canadian Senate, Mark Drouin,
and the Speaker of the Canadian House, Roland Michener, and ac-
cepted on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution by Assistant Secretary
Remington Kellogg. Representative Cornelius E. Gallagher of New
Jersey, representing the Interparliamentary Union, also spoke at the
presentation. The beavers were placed in the newly renovated pool in
the section of the Park long known as Beaver Valley.

Sir Edward Hallstrom of the Taronga Zoological Park Trust of
Sydney, Australia, sent eight lesser flying phalangers, a welcome addi-
tion to the collection.

Through John Hoke of the American Consulate in Paramaribo, the
Government of Surinam sent a three-toed sloth. While the two-toed
sloth is commonly seen in zoos and has frequently bred in the National
Zoological Park, the three-toed is a rarity as it does not adapt well
in captivity. This animal lived from July 2, 1960, to January 29,
1961, and produced a young one after it arrived. The baby, unfor-
tunately, died after 14 days. When Mr. Hoke returned from his
Surinam mission, he brought two more three-toed sloths and gave
them to the Zoo on June 19, 1961.

The Hogle Zoo in Salt Lake City, Utah, sent the Park two kit foxes,
a species that had not been represented in the collection for several
years.

J. Lear Grimmer, Associate Director, made another field trip to
British Guiana to study the life history of the hoatzin and returned
with three red agoutis and a large collection of birds and reptiles,
including the brown-throated conure, the black-headed conure, yellow-
headed marsh bird, black-throated cardinal, crested oropendula, three
species of ground doves, Cook’s boa, and the rainbow boa.

Space does not permit a complete list of all gifts received during the
year, but in addition to those already mentioned, the following are of
interest :

Alston, F. J., Charlotte, N.C., sea lion.

Armstrong, Wallace J., Washington, D.C., African lungfish, 2 angelfish, peacock
cichlid.

Balakirshnan, M. P., Kerala, India, Malabar squirrel.

Brady, James, Arlington, Va., night monkey.

Bump, Dr. Gardiner, New Dehli, India, jungle cat (Felis chaus), coppersmith

(barbet).

Cate, Mrs. Robert, Washington, D.C., 2 toucans.
Department of Preventive Medicine, Entomology Branch, Fort Sam Houston,

Tex., cacomistile.
Secretary's Report, 196] PLATE 7

1. Three ring-tailed lemurs from Madagascar are the first to be exhibited at the National
Zoological Park in many years.

x : io
| , Ce .. t

2. A young serval cat, born May 2, 1961, in the National Zoological Park.
Secretary's Report, 1961

A clouded leopard. National Zoological Park.

> white tiger from Rewa.

National Zoological Park.

PLATE 8

Secretary's Report, 1961 PLATE 9

1. A mother two-toed sloth and her two-month-old baby. National Zoological Park.

2. Male kookaburra (on the right) and three of his offspring. ‘The second clutch of eggs

can be seen in the nest at the base of tree. National Zoological Park.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 135

Fish and Wildlife Service, Annapolis, Md., Virginia deer; Boothbay Harbor,
Maine, 5 great black-backed gulls, 3 harbor seals; Eastern Shore, Md. (through
Vern Stott), 2 pied-billed grebes, 6 whistling swans, 3 golden-eyed ducks,
bufflehead ; Turkey Bay, Md., whistling swan.

George’s Pet Store, Bladensburg, Md., spider monkey.

Harbaugh, George, Mount Rainier, Md., spiny-tailed iguana.

Joy, Chief Petty Officer J. E., San Angelo, Tex., 22 western diamond-backed
rattlesnakes.

Kuntz, Dr. Robert, Taipei, Taiwan, 11 green snakes, water snake, 6 green vipers
(Trimeresurus stejnegeri), 3 green vipers (7. gramineus), striped rat snake.

Moynihan, Dr. Martin H., Barro Colorado Island, C.Z., 4 spider monkeys.

Muckels, R. N., Irongate, Va., spider monkey.

Nye, Alva G., McLean, Va., golden eagle,

Pinkston, Miss Nell S., Arlington, Va., tovi parakeet.

Pomeroy, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene, American Embassy, Benghazi, Libya, 2 spiny-
tailed lizards.

Roeder, H. Edward, Churchtown, Md., red-crowned mangabey.

Sather, Ken, Round Lake, Minn., 3 red-breasted geese.

Stambaugh, Dean, Washington, D.C., 2 troupials, 1 yellowhammer.

Statland, Samuel, Washington, D.C., 5 African clawed frogs.

Swain, Mark, Las Vegas, Nev., puma.

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washington, D.C., crowned hawk eagle.

Xanten, William Jr., Washington, D.C., collection of North American snakes.

PURCHASES

Among important purchases of the year were an African rhinoceros,
three Cape buffaloes, three brindled gnus, a clouded leopard, and three
ring-tailed lemurs. The Director, while in New Delhi making arrange-
ments for the shipment of the white tiger, purchased a sizable col-
lection of native birds, including bulbuls, tits, thrushes, parrots, and
parakeets.

Other purchases of interest were:

Rocky Mountain goat 2 South American lapwings
3 Patagonian cavies 2 pileated tinamous

Emu Quetzal

5 lesser African flamingoes 2 purple gallinules

4 Dalmatian pelicans 7 Nanday parrots

2 black-necked swans 2 Illiger’s macaws

4 coscoroba swans Concave-casqued hornbill

Harpy eagle
EXCHANGES

By the judicious use of exchanges with other zoos and with individ-
uals the following animals were obtained:
Barcelona Zoo, Barcelona, Spain, 2 Goliath frogs.
Breazeale, Edgar, Edmonton, N.C., 6 chukar quail, 8 bobwhite quail.
Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, 2 Arctic foxes.
Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, jaguar.
625325—62——_10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Crandon Park Zoo, Miami, Fla., 3 green frogs, 4 Cuban tree frogs, 2 oak toads,
5 spadefoot toads.

Department of Commerce, Bureau of Fisheries, 2 hellbenders.

Emperor Valley Zoo, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, 2 spider monkeys, blue tanager,
2 palm tanagers, maroon or silver-beaked tanager, violet tanager, 3 jacarini
finches, 2 saffron finches, 4 purple sugarbirds, 4 yellow-winged sugarbirds, 4
bananaquits, 3 black-headed sugarbirds, 6 scarlet ibis.

Hanson, Charles, Oak Harbor, Ohio, 3 banded geckos, 2 Uta sp., California king
snake, 2 glossy snakes, bull snake, mud snake, 2 fox snakes, garter snake
(black phase), 2 island water snakes.

New York Zoological Park, New York, N.Y., 4 faleated teals, 2 triangular spotted
pigeons.

Okit, W., Winston-Salem, N.C., black swan, 2 mutant pheasants.

Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pa., 4 prairie dogs.

Phillips, Mrs. Jerry, Waldorf, Md., 4 wood ducks.

Portland Zoo, Portland, Oreg., 2 alligator lizards, Columbian ground squirrel, 3
North American porcupines, 2 ring-tailed cats, 10 least chipmunks, 11 golden-
mantled squirrels, 2 murres, 3 herring gulls, 6 Washington ground squirrels,
chickaree, 4 chukar quail, 2 Onogadoria chickens, 2 Pacific rattlesnakes, rubber
boa.

San Diego Zoo, San Diego, Calif., 2 Indian monitors, 8 valley quail, 4 Gambel’s
quail, 4 burrowing owls, toco toucan.

Southwest Wild Animal Farm, Blackstone, Mass., 4 peach-faced lovebirds.

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., silver pheasant.

Tote-em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 2 Asiatic chipmunks, 2 European hedgehogs,
3 Indian monitors, 3 black racers.

Whiteman, Robert L., Fairfax, Va., 2 hog-nosed snakes, 3 water snakes, 2 ribbon
snakes, 8 worm snakes.

The following animals were sent to other zoos and to private
collectors in exchange:

Alipore Zoo, Calcutta, India, 4 scarlet ibises, 2 roseate spoonbills, 12 wood ducks,
2 Gambel’s quail, 2 California Valley quail, 2 bobwhite quail, 2 coscorobas,
sulphur-and-white-breasted toucan, white-lined toucanet, 3 cackling geese, 4
red-breasted marsh birds, cardinal, Gila monster, Mexican bearded lizard, 2
armadillos.

Barcelona Zoo, Barcelona, Spain, 10 prairie dogs.

Breazeale, E., Edmonton, N.C., 4 Canadian geese.

British Guiana Zoo, Georgetown, British Guiana, 4 domestic rabbits, 4 peafowl.

Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, Cape hunting dog, 2 brown pelicans, 2 barred
owls, 3 night herons.

Ceylon Zoological Gardens, Colombo, Ceylon, 6 prairie dogs.

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, 2 lion cubs.

Copenhagen Zoo, Copenhagen, Denmark, 6 cardinals, white-throated sparrow,
2 zebra finches, white-headed nun, blue jay, robin, 2 Java finches, 2 baldpates,
80 common Anolis.

de Lauerolle, Vasantha, Berkeley, Calif., Indian python.

Detroit Zoo, Royal Oak, Mich., 2 Pacific rattlesnakes, 2 pygmy rattlesnakes, 2
western rattlesnakes, 2 Amazon spotted turtles, 1 copperhead, 4 Taiwan cobras,
2 flat-headed turtles, South American red-lined turtle, large side-necked turtle,
Murray turtle, Indian monitor, 3 Cook’s boas.

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., 3 red deer, 2 white fallow deer, 2 Virginia
deer. :

SECRETARY'S REPORT 137

Hanson, Charles, Oak Harbor, Ohio, 2 Cook’s boas.

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., South American rat snake, 2 common iguanas, 2
Indian monitors, 6 pilot black snakes, black tegu, 2 African bull frogs, fox
snake, 2 Amazon spotted turtles, gibba turtle, Pacific rattlesnake, 2 manushi,
glossy snake, 4 palm vipers, 2 flat-headed turtles, Formosan striped rat snake,
Formosan rat snake, 2 South American red-lined turtles, milk snake, 2
Indian wolf snakes, 2 large snake-necked turtles, 2 Murray turtles, boa con-
strictor, Indian python, 2 Taiwan cobras, snorkel viper, 6 tree boas, Cuban
boa, Indian cobra.

Portland Zoo, Portland, Oreg., Nile hippopotamus, 2 eastern box turtles, 2 yellow-
bellied turtles, 2 eastern painted turtles, Florida water turtles, red-lined
turtle, 2 western diamond-backed rattlesnakes, 2 African porcupines.

Sacramento Zoo, Sacramento, Calif., 2 Cape hunting dogs.

Salisbury Snake Farm, Southern Rhodesia, anaconda.

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., black leopard, water civet, 2 golden-
bellied badgers, lesser panda, giant Indian squirrel, 2 kelp gulls, 2 American
ospreys, 2 cotton teal, 10 Quaker parakeets, 3 ring-necked teal, llama, 2 For-
mosan masked civets, 3 Newman’s genets, Patagonian cavy, sika deer, laughing
thrush, 2 Formosan red-billed pies, 2 plain-breasted ground doves.

Seattle Zoo, Seattle, Wash., 3 mute swans.

Southwick Wild Animal Farm, Blackstone, Mass., 1 wild turkey.

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., 2 cockatiels.

Toledo Zoo, Toledo, Ohio, 2 Cape hunting dogs.

Tote-em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 8 fallow deer, 5 Virginia deer, elk, yak,
Columbian ground squirrel, 4 eastern flying squirrels.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

The number of young animals born in the Zoo was gratifying and
included several “firsts,” either for this Zoo or for the United States.
The pair of Margay cats that had a young one last year produced
another kitten, which was cared for by the mother. A baby serval
was taken away from its mother and raised by hand. The Canadian
beavers, which were gifts from the Canadian Government, had a
young one just after arriving in the park and before the formal
presentation by Canadian officials, and so it was on view during the
ceremony. The Dorcas gazelles were equally obliging and had their
fawn at the time when President Bourguiba of Tunisia, who gave the
original pair to Mrs. John Eisenhower, was in Washington.

A pair of kookaburras, a gift in 1954 from Sir Edward Hallstrom
of the Taronga Zoological Park Trust in Sydney, Australia, began
laying eggs in February 1961. The nest was built in an opening at
the base of a hollow tree, and the birds excavated the site until the
nest was 2 or 3 inches below ground level. Three eggs were laid, and
the male and female birds took turns incubating them, neither bird
leaving the nest until the other had replaced it during the 25 days
of incubation. On four occasions the female was observed calling the
male by rapping on the tree with her bill, and the male responded
immediately and entered the nest. The kookaburras had always been
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

fed on dead mice, and before the eggs hatched the keepers began ac-
customing the adults to eating mice that had been cut up in small
pieces. These chopped mice, supplemented with cockroaches that had
been injected with multivitamins, were fed directly to the young birds
by the parents after the old birds had crushed them thoroughly either
in their bills or by rapping them against the tree. Thirty days after
hatching, the first bird left the nest, but they continued to be fed by
the parents until they were 2 months old. Before the first brood was
self-reliant, the female began laying eggs again, and two more young
were hatched on June 5.

Following the procedure of previous years, all births and hatchings
are listed below, whether or not the young were successfully raised.
In many instances the record of animals having bred in captivity is of
importance. .

MAMMALS

Common name Scientific name Number
Rat kane arooe less ete EO POLOROUSHSD es ae 2
INTE nit OTK Gry ears ea ne AOQtUSMURIUILO CLUS = eee eee 2
Squirreljimoniey see ea ea Saimint scireuse_a == 2
Ely bridamacaque ses rer a Sins Lies Macaca philippiensis x M. irus—_ 1
Rhesus monkey sere Se wis We eee Ma cacawmnulaghidse 2) 1
Barbaryenpe tee ie Rye ke MGCACO SLUGS ae 3
Moustached monkey 222. aua ee a Cercopithecus cephus_________-- 1
WeBrazza Siete n Onmas ane ee Cercopithecus neglectus_______-__ 2
White-handed gibbon_________________ HT ylO0Gtes NG ee ee 1
Chimpanzee: Ler eo eae PONS OYy TUS ee eee 1
"DWO-COCG Sl Ot mera tums 2 oe ee Choloepus didactylus___________ 1
Three-toedtsloth a2. 62 eg re Bradypus tridactylusge sss 1
Bea verse ee okie ait eta aA Ae EN a Castor canadensis== a 1
Prairiesdog. att Sen we, ay ee ~ Cynomys ludovicianus__________ 3
Africaniicrestedpratss2 22 eae LophiomyseSps eee ee a ee 1
White-footed mouse__________________. PerOmySCussSp ee = ane ae 1
DM Cer imouse se Se suk ee es ek Peromyscus maniculatus________ 5
Atri CAN pPOLCU PIN Casi eee eee SEAL OOLCUL a 2 ee 3
Patazomian: Cav yas ets kes ee Doiichotis patagona_____________ ZS
Din gO MSO OOM AAPG Li be F0e dre BEE Say CantsVantarcticusla. Beet 2a an a
Common) jackals ie er nin a eg Canis) qujeusy 222) eee ee 6
TMmberswOlies <2 hee nee ee Canis lupus nubilug._._2-______ 3
Capeshunting, dog- a= = tte ee ee LY COORD ICUS sae ane eee 5
Huropean brown bearice2 2222S: OGSUS) On CLOGS Roa ae eae Te ae 5
Grizzly beara sts Ba oe ete Ursus ‘horrivilig 2 2 Eee 2

ElybridsbearsH2: 5202 totes le pivere Thaiarctos maritimus x Ursus
Middendornfi 22222 aes eae 4
Coatimundi# 226252 Fk. ee oe eRe NGSUGINGTi Cee eee 3
Newmans 2enetes 22 see ae aes Genetta genetta neumanii_______ ct
Miatenicivete ee bes Set Oe ee ee Atilax paludinosus. = 3
Ori Ve lessees eel le 8 bet AGD RCA ee BP CUS*Serval Lee» aa Ras 2
Miarrayecatic Ge Giese aOR I Bh ree alee Melis. 2eiediis.s 2s OH (cur m. ee 1
Toi omni se oe Fae a re a OD Panthena} léossate. Fie etn aeik 2
POCCAT Yee ee sia Ane Se ae Becars: tajacu 22 ee ee al

ECRETARY’S REPORT

ion

Common name Scientific name Number
Nilephinpopotamus 222 ==. 2 2 te. Hippopotamus amphibius_______ il
TAT ney SY a aE ee COMO MOLE as mae ae kee 4
IBAGEIAN CAMG Lee Sry se Le Oe ee Camelus baciriants—_- =” al
Wihite tallow deerlo22 =-= eee ee os Dama den essen se ie gees 4
Am eerse it. f5 i ths Lies VT ee ALES A DLSt a eae eae ey | ee 2
Rede deer ste. ts ese 0 28 hyd Be US we dec veel ee Cenvusselanhuset 22 eae 5 ea 2
SHIRT GOS a Ree ee Cervus nippon a) ee ee 4
Wareinia deena. 0. Se eee ee — Odocoileus virginianus__________ 1¢
PER TIN GL CY ee ee a a Rangifer. tarandus_..---___ 3
Woreasveazelles hese oe Se Gazelia \d0rcas== = ee 1
IbanvaeyesheCpa== aaa a = oa ska Ammotragus lervia__.__________ iL
Rocky Mountain sheep_=2-_-______=+_- Ovis canadensi3____________.__ i

BIRDS
Wats Shy Gee eS eee Caygnusiolorsees sa ean 6
Wihooper  swans=— 252) = Olorseyonisess Ss ie eee 3
VO OUKEIC ke sae 2 ae 2 ae he Pe AND SNONSG soe ah ee 2
Americahs pintail== 2223 F-22= 1 a ANGSPaECULOL Sea eee ee 9
Mandarinvduckio ceo oo Dendronessa galericulata_______ B92
Goldenmunheasantes 22). 8 84 Ae Chrysolophus pictus___________ 4
PUTAS LO yy ae a GOlussgalhigee ae Se ye tf
Va letra eye eee ee Meleagris gallopava___________ 2
Ouaker.parakeet. = 2214! 8¢ 5. ees Myopsittacus monachus________ 8
IBUunrowiney Owles sos 2 {2st Spectyto cunicularis hypugaea__ 1
IMGOKADURER 2 24s. 2 ae Tt Waceloi gigas sss sae 5
REPTILES
SHappine turtles soe lw oe Chelydra serpentina___________ 11
1BX0>-< Tab et Fl eh ee eee eee Sean Perrapene) corona __ 22 ee 24
Painteds turtles 2s 22e) a8. ei 5) YD 2 Ohrysemys picta2n is So ee 8
Yellow-bellied turtle__._..........---~-- Pseudemys scripta sp_________- 47
Hed-lmedwturtlecn 2. eee Pseudemys scripta callirostris__ 55
Red-pellied*turtlet.2 = 5 ee Pseudemys rubriventris________ 12
Red-lined) turtles! aise noe hae Pseudemys elegans... 16
Hastern@ water snakes) Natrinnsipedono- 32 os eer 14
Florida green water snake____________ Natriz cyclopion floridana_____. 29
sland awater Snak@: 2-2-2. 2228 INGETADMNSULOT UNS ee 45
Garterssnake...Us8 Sees tah of leat 3 th Thamnophis sirtalis___________ 11
Ribbonisnakes = tikeie te seas t Thamnophis sauritus________-_ of
STACK Bra Cer == = ewe B Pe Coluber constrictor 2- 224 - +
Pilotiblackssnake= mene (2 wll aaieg 5 Hlapheousoletasise==__baenn 13
Paiwanweobras =o — oleae Bw wt oh ee INGj0i Naja atra= sae ee 7
Worthernscopperhead!.—=- 22 Ancistrodon contortriz________- 12
FISHES
African=mouthbreeder==2 222-2242 Pelmatochromis guentheri_____- 15

The importance of a zoological collection rests, to a large extent,
upon the diversity and scope of its representation throughout the
whole of the animal kingdom. The National Zoological Park has
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

enjoyed some measure of success in efforts to add representative species
belonging to little-known or absent families.

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,371. This in-
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings.
Several minor species, which are best displayed in large numbers, do
not have an individual count, merely being listed as “many.”

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Class Order Family Species or Individuals
subspecies
Mammal s®t.re 4 SSeS ee ae 15 51 244 627+
Birdsus24ans cee Sesh tee aoe 22 77 419 1, 196+
Repities! 2-22 So Sees en ee oe 4 23 161 414+
Amphibians 225-252. esac 2 11 25 108+
ET) & ater sana peat ee ere Sees eee Bae se 4 8 21 86+
Arthropods- 22 2.-.5223-22Re4 3 3 3 Many
Moluske=s202-2 2" 2252 iene 1 1 1 Many
Total sce eee ee 51 174 874 2,4381+
ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1961
MAMMALS
MONOTREMATA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Tachyglossidae:
Echidna, or spiny anteater__________ Tachyglossus aculeatus___----- 1
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae:
Opossum 222522 SoS ee Didelphis marsupialis________-- 5
Dasyuridae:
Tasmanian Geyil= 22 sees eee Sarcophilus harrisii-__._.___.--- 1
Phalangeridae:
Sucarrclider were se eaeeas! = SPCLQUrus UTeUICEDS =e eae 4
Squirrcel’sliders= 2 awe eee Petaurus norfolcensis________--~ tf
Phascolomidae:
Hainy-nosed: wombatees2e aaa Lasiorhinus latifrons____-----~ 2
Mainland: wombat=.2se ee eee Wiombatuswhinsitusa=——2eaa=— = 1
Macropodidae:
Redtkanvaroolsoe See 2 ee eee MCLODUS ATL US ee 1
ireeskanparoo= 2222 292 a eee Dendrolagus matschici______-_- 3
mat kancano0 Seis See ee POLOTROUS SPiceoeee ae eee eee uv ¢
INSECTIVORA

Erinaceidae:
European hedgehog______--______-- Hrinaceus europaeus __-_..---- 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT

141

CHIROPTERA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Vespertilioninae:
ittie Drown pat = ee NASOCUS CUCU UGS eee 1
PRIMATES
Lemuridae:
Ring-tailed: lemurs - = = 2 =. IGCNUT COU an ene 3
Lorisidae:
(CheETIO TET 0) Se ee ee eee Galago crassicaudatus_________ 2
STEEP ee ee ee Galago senegalensis____________ 2
ivy ai ela gS Oe a ee Galago senegalensis
BORED OLUSIE Sp eee eee 2
SNE? DCT eS a ee ee ee INyeticeuus COUCONng === — =a 1
Soman One pOtLOl= se a= nee ee ee CrOGICHCUS) DOLLO === Pe
Cebidae:
Nigiimonikey == 22 te So AOTUSSTAVIT CLUS == eae 3
Brown capuchin monkey
White-throated eu SES eee ae CEOUSICODUCTILS =a =e ee 10
Capuchin
SouITrelemonkeyes=— = en os eee Satmirt sciureus G
Blaek spider’ monkey. ——_ 5 AILCLES) US CLCOD Sa = ee ae 5
Spidermmonkey 22222 = 2 ee as AL CIESOCO]) OY = ee ee 5
WMeGly MONKEY. 2. n= DIAS) 7105 SY REY ¢ RPS tea af
Callithricidae:
Goftontop marmoset__.........-.2= Saguinus oedipus______________ 1
Black-and-red tamarin_____________- Saguinus nigricollis___-_- -_ = Al
Cercopithecidae:
Toque, or bonnet monkey_----~-----. MGCL SINACE ane ee 3
RIeRvAITU TN CAME 2a 2 ee Macaca irus mordag__________- 2
Crab-eating macaque_______________. MP ECHCR TUS. 6 So T e e 1
Philippine macaque_—--_---__-_-___ Macaca philippinensis___________ 2
NIACAQUC HY DI G== == see een ee Macaca philippinensis X
MOCACONTUSE ea a ee ae 2
Rnesusm monkeys 25 2 oS sae MCC HCOSIMAUIGTLG 2 ee ee 4
ormosane MOnkeyes === =2 ae eee MOCECECYCIODIS = ee 2
Red-faced macaque___---__-----_--- Macaca speciosa_______---._-___ a
Bahan yaenp Osa ober 2 Sos ee MOQcaca sylvuanusgens = 13
NOD EAM AGA QU C322 22 ee eee ee MO COCO MOU Sse ee 1
Gray-cheeked mangabey__-__---_-_- Cercocebus albigena____----__~- al
Aaile mangabeyso-2ss25 5 See ee Cercocebus galeriius agilis______ if
Golden-bellied mangabey__--------~ Cercocebus galeritus chrysogaster al
Red-crowned mangabey______---___-- Cercocebus torquatus____._______ 2
Sooty, manvabey 3 5—-2i a Cercocebus fuliginosus__________ 5
Grestedimangabeye.—- ee eee Cercocebus aterrimus opden-
OOSCIIA Pee eee een ee eee 2
Blacked-crested mangabey__________ Cercocebus aterrimus___________ 3
C@hacma. baboon22.22-.8 2 ee ODIO COMO St a a eg 1
JY (8 010 bo | aR ey SR NEE Seley ye Mandi iiss spRinDe = oe a if
Geladawbaboon at a Theropithecus gelada___________ 1
WMervet sonenon= = =— 8 aaa. ot Ceropithecus aethiops pygery-
EIU S pea ee ee ee aL
Se reent ou CN ON! === cer ee ee es Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus__ 2
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Cercopithecidae—Continued
Guenonsehy brid == sae aa Cercopithecus aethiops X C. A.
DYUCErYCNTUS Lao = 2 eee 2
Moustached monkey_-_--~----------- Cercopithecus cephus__-____---- 3
Diana monkey. 2e ss. eee Cercopithecus diana---.-------- 1
Roloway monkey =22=—=—2=22-2_ =e Cercopithecus diana roloway_--- 1
IPTCUSS/S UCI OM se ee Cercopithecus Vhoesti preussi___ 1
DeBrazza’s 21enonl222- 42-0 — == Cercopithecus neglectus_____--_-~- 3
White-nosed guenon_______________- Cercopithecus nictitans____---~-- 1
Lesser white-nosed guenon________-- Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista 1
Allens smonke yeas =e een ees Allenopithecus nigroviridis___--~ Py
Spectacled, or Phayre’s langur___-~- Presvyuis phayreis— 2 1
Hntellus, or Hanuman monkey_----- Presbytis entellus-=—- _— 2
lobia ee ee PRres0ylis’ (SPisest nnn tae eee 1
Pongidae:
Wihite-handed fibbones sss HglOovates Gi eee 5
Wau-wau cibboni2222202 ae TIAlOvuates MO Chon se ee 1
Gibhbonehybrida] 22222. ae Hylobates agilis X H. lar pilea-
Un 1 ppt iy a me ete Sas Seon il
Gibbons hybrid] 222k se eae LEMONT OEP DS Jélg Sites 2
Sumatran orangutan] —--— 2 = ae PONTO DYGMACte= 2-2 2
Bomeany Oraneutane == eee ee Pongo pygmaeus abelii________-- 1
Chimpanzee ae oes ae ee ee PON SATUS ee eee 4
CEs N ea Is petite Ree ee ca a ee bal a aR ee Gone GOT Gee ee Be
EDENTATA
Myrmecophagidae:
Giantcanteater.] = 25252225 2 ae Myrmecophaga tridactyla_______ il
Bradypodidae:
Thr ee@=LOeCU gS Oui aaa ae eee eee te Bradypus tridactylus_______-___ 1
PENVO=UOCUGS) 0 Gli eee A ee re ee Choloepus didactylus___________ 6
Dasypodidae:
Nine-banded' “armadillo22— = Dasypus novemcinctus_________- 1
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Domestic wabbit— =- = Se eee Oryctolagus cuniculus__________ 7
RODENTIA
Aplodontidae:
Mountain’ beavers22= a ase Senne Aplodontia rufalc2l Sse i
Sciuridae:
Gray, squirrel ‘(black)222 22 eas Sciurus carolinensis, melanistic
phases22.2ia eat ieee 2
Gray squirrel (albino)_-___________ Sciurus carolinensis__..-.____-- 3
Moxwsquirrell% Paes: Ree Sctunus+niger-—=— SS eee 1
CHICA TCE ete ei Tamiasciurus douglasii___._._.-- il
Giant-Indianssquirrel=-os aus sine Rata widicaicn ee Sees ee 2
ASiatic=squirrelence eer Callosciurus nigrovittatus_______ 1
Formosan tree squirrel_____________ Callosciurus erythraeus___------ 3
Asiatiesforest squirrels =e eee Callosciurus caniceps________--- 3
Striped ground squirrel____________ Lariscus insignis_______---_-_-_ 1
Long-nosedssquirrel-=_-2222~ SU 08s Dremomys rufigenigs__..._-_-_---- it
Woodchuck, or groundhog__________ Marmota monag___.....------- 2

SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Sciuridae—Continued
Praiviexdoges See cs eels Bale ie Cynomys ludovicianus__________ 6
Round-tailed ground squirrel________ Citellus tereticaudus____________ 1
California ground squirrel______-___ Catelius. beecheyi2 eee bata 1
Washington ground squirrel________ Citellus washingtoni___._________ 5
Golden-mantled ground squirrel____-_ Gitelluss laterahigusee 20 ee. 4
Hasternechipmunkat.* — 24 iy wets Tamias.. striatus cae8 saels svat 2
Eastern chipmunk (albino) —---~_-_. Tamiasmstrigvisee) 222207 ee 1
Yellow-pine chipmunk__.--___-__-_- Hutamias amoenus____.___--_-- 7
Indiane palm squirrel_—_-.-_.__225_ Funambulus palmarum______--_ of
Formosan flying squirrel___________- Petaunisia grandis____- ee 1
Eastern flying squirrel____._-________ Glaucomys volang______-___-_-~ 6
Castoridae:
IB PACT pean = oe Us eae eee Castor, canadensig__- 22222 3 Fs 3
Cricetidae:
Goldenchamster:-—- > Si nesiite sient t Mesocricetus awratug______-____ 1
White-footed mouse__._____-_____-_ Repomayscusisp._ ee 11
Pinewvole. = seri yeh ie Dene Pitymys pinetorum______-_-_-~— 2
Gerbilee 2222 2 Pee eat hee Gerbillus pyramidum__________~_ 2
Hat-tailed Jcerbilieass olin _o a iwentoys Pachyuromys duprasi_._____-___ Many
Hainy-tailedsjird= 2 iesee oy pe ote Sekeetamys calurus______-__--__ 1
AITO Se Se ee eee fee Meriones spy 2-22 enehias 8
Muridae:
Egyptian spiny mouse______________ Acomys cahirinus_..___________ 10
Egyptian spiny mouse______________ Acomys dimidiatus_____________ Many
Multimammate mouse_____________~_ Mastomysusnjn-22- 2222. -iseeeriys 2
@restederat.2- 2248 aha. |e tees rue yt Lophiomysisps le sear a Ae fs. 4
Slender-tailed cloud rat-_____-_____ Phloeomys cumingii_______-__<_ il
Gliridae:
Atticanwgormouse.—— sess Bee Graphiurus murinus____-___--_- 1
Hystricidae:
Malay. DOLCcHpine tees this toem hs) oe Acanthion brachyura_____-__-_-- il
ALTICAnS DONC pine-Se es eraies. balsa te. HUSiTiO  QULCOlG =a 7
Caviidae:
Patagonian cavy._...-_ sete _ hee Dolichotis patagona________----_ 6
Dasyproctidae:
Red sazoutin!—. — ans ens _eige* Dasyprocia Spun s=) See ee 3
Chinchillidae:
Peruvyianaviseaccia. 22 a ae Lagidium. viscaccia_====--=--==— i
CARNIVORA
Canidae:
Dingo ss HNO LAL ee Canis antarcticus’ 2 _ Se” 3
COV OCs SIE GAY Se Canis *lotrange2. 2 Soe Be 1
Common aekals22 2 Gesu ge eee Canis qureusse oe eee 8
ELI MBErAWOlto okt SE LN . Canis lupus nubilus-.-..-.2--25 74
exassred*wolt-= 2%. Sessa N ee iene Canis niger rufugelie. ayn 38 ar
AT CHCTOX2 8s = LURES» ALOPEDLAGOp Use tso 2 Mee Te 2
EEGHLO Xa is 2 DEY ENT Vulpes filo 2. eT ee 1
3 GL: ope Seen WO SS PORN eee, SN wee, LS DOD ES Vailpesmacrotisise. oases BS 2
Wennecia. 2602822 ow Mee) a Fennecus zerd@oa2 2 2
Big-eared: foxes 2 De 2 Otocyon megalotis_______.___..__ il
Raccoon dogs. Ue OL se eee ie Nyctereutes procyonoides____--- 3
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Canidae—Continued
Capeshunting dogses see Lycaon pictus 2S 2
Ursidae:
Spectacledbear-42- 32 ee eee Tremarctos ornatus_____--_-__-- 1
Himalayanybearse2) eee eee Selenarctos thibetanus  thibet-
Nts est ee, Bibecperertn Hime ane ese) 2
Japanese black bear__-------------- Selenarctos thibetanus japoni-
CUS reat neti sa abet eile es al
Koreansbears 222222 eosew ees Selenarctos thibetanus ussuri-
CUS BS et ns Seley otra eee aries 2
Bla ckibea re 22S S26 ee See Euarctos americanus. ____----~ 2
European brown bear_.----~-------- UOSU8 On ClO8 See Sa Ee 3
TranianeDrown Deano == eee Ursus arctos occidentalis_______ 2
Alaskan Peninsula bear____---~--__. ORSUSKOU CSS a ee ee ee ee 2
Grizzlyebeur 22 22s 222 see ee Ursussnornivilis=—— 2
Sitka, Drownbea ras ees (QEASOKD SOARES 1
Polaris Dear Sake 2 eee eee ee Thalarctos maritimus____.__----~ 2
Hybrid bears=222 see eee Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus
FREON OP ih a 4
Malay sun beartisceoee on eee eee soe Helarctos malayanus_-__----~~- 2
Sloth ibear 224s ie ae ee See MCTITSUSTUTSINUS nae eee 2
Procyonidae:
RACCOON Heelan Se ee Ee ee IPrOCVONMLOLO Tee ee 10
Raccoon (black phase) ~------------. Procyon, (00 EEE 1
Raccoon e(albino) 223 ee. Procyon. l0t0, =e 1
Costimund!: 22222 2 ee eee NGQSUGI NOTICE === =a ae 4
Cacomistle, or ring-tailed cat______-~_ Bassariscus astutus_____..------ 5
Kinke ] ous - eesti P0tos flQuussaa ee eae 4
QO ic ee Bassaricyon gabbi_.____-__-_____ 2,
Wesser pandass_Sisss st sees lee esst AGlUTUS UG ENS aaa 3
Mustelidae:
Merretesce = 22 eae EAS false Bee Mustela eversmanni______-_---- 1
Marténsc22. 22 2b ie ei hs eR ER et Marlesnamericands as eae 1
DEMS) 01) Les PA SR a a a pee ete Martes pennanti== eee 1
Ep of, 8 ee Ae Hir@ VGnvugras—.- ee eee 1
Grisonee sh eka ee eS ee es ee ee Galictisciticae- eee 1
Zorilla, or striped weasel___---_-~_~_. TelonyD \Capensisaaa— 2 == 74
Wrolvering=t= 2s. oe Seer eee Gulo liscussc22 oe ere eee 1
Americanybadrers2s2 sees eee ees Tavideantecis= ee 1
Golden-bellied ferret-badger__-_____- Helictis moschata subauran-
TAIL) Pepuea atone Sear ea a Ne 3
Commontskunk2= = eee Mephitis mephitis____cu-____..- 3
California spotted skunk__________~. Spilogale putorius phenav_____ 1
South American flat-tailed otter_____- Pteronura brasiliensis....._.... 1
Viverridae;:
Genet ia 2 ae ee ee Genetia genetta neumanii_____- 8
Genet (black phase) ~-_---_---__--. Genetia genetta neumanii______ 1
Formosan spotted civet ____---_-~_-. Viverricula indicas222— 2
GTrOUNGs CLV.C boas ee ee ae Viverra tangalunga____—-_____.-- 1
Dy a fSfy oF ei Se a na eee ene ee IPrOnNOdOn MUNSON G eee ae il
African palm \civet.- ===. as Nandinia binotata si -~ 22a 2
Formosan masked civet_____________ Paguma larvata taivana____-__-_ 1
IBINCUTON PB ea Se EE Anctictis vinturong==--—s—. 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Viverridae—Continued
African gray mongoose______-__-__. Herpestes ichneumon___--_--~_~ 1
Black-footed mongoose____-----_-~-. Bdeogale: sp.sc 2222555522255 a
African; water. Civets 22 eS sxees ss Atlan naludinosiss=- = aae ee 5
Striped African mongoose_____-__~-- Crossarchus fasciatus__._.___._.. 2
White-tailede civetsasis=: _ asa 2o Ichneumia albicauda______-_--~- ul
Cryptoproctidae:
MOSSS eee ao. on ene Cryptoprocta ferov____-_-_-_-_- 1
Hyaenidae:
Stripedenyend so) =. aee—. eae Hyqeng  lyjaen@ == = 2
Felidae:
SETS CA EC aE I CU SICh AUS Sa ne ee 2
Baling sheatsss 22202 ete ee ee CUS Mant ees ee ae eee 2
Benvalreat rs. ee ee EP LCLISUS CT UCL en ne ee 4
OEE (OY ea a Se aa he cae ee ee OU GUS, DOTCAU See ee ee 2
Misr aly Catia Se eee es a Helis wiedit tigrina-_-— 2 === 4
VERT TTAY ie Oye ee he a ee ELS CONCO OTe ee ee eee 3
Nii y drm Sa ae hynecanadensis= al
1 3X0} 01 C7 in Fae a een ae er TS LANE Tus Se eee 2
WCCO AT Gennes oe ee POnther Gs PQnduUsaae ene 5
IBlsekwleopard sa. eo en IPOntherg) pandus see 2
IEG yp eens ee ears Ee seni Le Panthera le0es 2 aa eee 3
IBengaletigeree= 2a se ens oe PONtheragigris == 3
Bengal tiger (white phase)_________. IPONTRETOMIGI So ee eee 1
ed SU OGULSD Tome ere ae eee eee we PONther 0 On CO e ee 2
Cloudedweopard ea. aes eae INICOLELES- NEOUWLOSG aaa eee il
SnOWslCOpa TGs a eee IPONnth erg, UnCtd 2. 3
(SS) eo Eee A Acinonya jubata =~ n= ee 2
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
California sea-lion= = 2+ 232 Zalophus californianus__________ 6
Patagonian sea-lion__ = =. Otaria) flavescens==- =e 1
Phocidae:
ETAT DOLRSCA ee aerate tern ets ee ea PROCG CUUlNG So eee eee 3
TUBULIDENTATA
Orycteropodidae:
Aardvark, or antbeariiuts2 22 s2 2 Orycteropus afer. al
PROBOSCIDEA
Hlephantidae:
Atricanvelephant. 228 Loxvodonta africana_____________ 1
Horestrelephant=2 22. eas seen eee Loxodonta cyclotisi. 22-2 == 1
indianvelephant:= 252s es Elephas maximus. 74
HYRACOIDEA
Procaviidae:
iy ras 2 pe eS eh ee Procavia syriaca.___.__.___.____~ il
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Mongolian:wild horse 2-= 23 Hquus przewalskii_.-—-2-_—~_-_ 1
Burrow on donkey= 2 see ee Quis asiniise ease ee 1
Grantiayzeprase aes Nees Sa ee Equus burchelli boehmi_____---- 3
146

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Equidae—Continued
Grevy"s* zebra. 2k ae eee Hauusiorevyt-2S = SS Se 2
Tapiridae:
‘Brazilianstapirls es ee ee Tapinus terrestriss = Sse if!
Rhinocerotidae:
Great one-horned Indian rhinoceros__ Rhinoceros unicornis_____-----~- il
White, or square-lipped rhinoceros___ Ceratotherium simum_——-~------- 2
African black rhinoceros__________-- DiGChOSDICOnN Sean eae 1
ARTIODACTYLA
Tayassuidae:
@ollared i peccany 222s. eae PCCOiMt NG] OC anne na ee B3
Hippopotamidae:
RL P POO ha NAS ae eee Hippopotamus amphibius______- 2
Pygmy hippopotamus____-___-_____- Choeropsis liberiensis_________-~ 4
Camelidae:
TCA ae esa et» hr MC eR TONG a OUT 6
Garr arn CO ee ee ae ee Seer Lama glama guanicoe___------~- 3
PNY os Y GE Re ea Nac a aS Rea a es USGL LING DOK GOS PSS ate rai tar 4
IBACLMANIGAM Cle 2 see a ee ee ee Camelus bactrianus______—-_-_-- 2
Cervidae:
White’ fallow deer2 2-22-25 ee DOC OI ae 6
PACK SUC CG Teese ea a ae cee INOS TIA AS SoA et SA a ee 5
TE 585 LAY VEY Sy ee ae se ey a YA (GROTESQUE TONG ee 8
PATI CET GA Nie GC) Keel atc eee enc eee Cervus canadensis—_-— 2
ESAT EES WUC8 SYS emt py eae yr a ee Ep dR od COTVUS TAD DON se ee ee 10
iPére sDavi dG: sid Cer see as eee EHlaphurus davidianus____------ 1
Wareiniat deere sss. a Le i ee Odocoileus virginianus______---_- 9
RGR CLG Ge a pe ee RANG Cr tO OnaUsen = eee 13
Horest caribou. eee ee eee ONG Ui CTs COTNOOU = ee al
Giraffidae:
Nubian piraiieress =. 2 Besa Giraffa camelopardalis_________- il
Antilocapridae:
IPTOn SOR ys eee eee eee Ae Antilocapra americana__________ 1
Bovidae:
SHER EUN GAs ere Se eee ee ee Tr C0ClLOpRUS SDCKiien es oe 1
IB TINGLE a ene es ee ee ee Connochaetes taurinus_________- 3
WAT) Of eS a leh ae Anoa depressicornis_______---___ a
AN OY Ee TES A Ue cre BOS mMnGICUgo2 tae eek ue ae eee al
RVC iccp See! eR Nats PECL Lae AE 2 ar A Poephagus grunniens__________- 3
GUT ey ee tr IBD OSNO CUI USS == od oe eae eee 3
PAE CAM UTE AO se ee ee sce ISUTLCCT LSI CO IRC ip +
AMEricAn) DISON= soe see aan wal eee IBiSOMMOIS ON ore na ee ee ee 2
Wisent, or European bison__________ ESAS OTRO OILS UR eae een ee eae ey 2
Doreas gazelle_ oo 2-2 ee CWA WOR Ge ee oe 3
Rocky mountain coates =] eee Oreamnos americanus_______~--- 3
PAN Ti aise OS DT Hermitragus jemlahicus______-_ 1
11) (et Ae ENS SO Mere bets yea rele Mea ae ee Cannasibers he rnes 2 ule ee Eee i
PSM em SNEED ae ote a oe eee PSCULOISINAY OUT oe ee ee BE
PAOUIC SO eek ek acai aa Ammotragus lervia___._._.___----_ <
Bie NORM SNECD sss == ee ra ODIs, CONCACNS(S= eee 5
Mall Sheep 22 kee a eee te Ovistdqiiwdgis. eee 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT

147

BIRDS
SPHENISCIFORMES
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Spheniscidae:
Raneapeno nines see st Oe eek Aptenodytes patagonica______--- 4
AdGliespensuiness 22a wes Oe Pygoscelis adeliae-___-__-~.---- 2
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
OS imei el eh OE Ee ie ee eee Struthio camels e.22 1
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
Ree ee a ee ee RNCONOUCTACONG See eee 1
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
CHES iia ee el ee eee Casuarius sp) ac2 =~ teehee 2
Dromiceidae:
Shean gee ee aL SOE pores vty bt Bee Dromiceius novaehollandice___- 5
TINANIIFORMES
Tinamidae:
Pileatedstingmou-—— = Crypturus soui panamensis___-_- 1
PROCELLARIIFORMES
Diomedeidae:
Black-footed albatross_____--_------ Diomedea nigripes_______---..- 2
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Rose-colored pelican ._______________ Pelecanus onocrotalus______---- 2
Wihitel pelicans: <2. 2.2. a 8 2 ee Pelecanus erythrorhynchos___-- 3
IBTOW MEDC Canes aoe eee Pelecanus occidentalis_________- 1
Dalmatian pelicans——=— 2. = 2+. Pelecanus crispus._._._-_______._ 4
Phalacrocoracidae:
Double-crested cormorant___________ Phalacrocoraz auriius auritus___ 4
iHaralion: cormorant. ——]25- ue Phalacrocoraz auritus
mibociwiatus. ee 1
Huropean cormorant=2-=-2— = Phalacrocorag carbo______~--~- 6
Anhingidae: .
Anhinga, or snakebird______________. Anhinga anhinga___.___-___-~__ 1
Indian darter: 2. uas ee 2 s Anhinga melanogaster____-____~ 2
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
Reddish, egTret24 8 1205 Kew tt ee Tt. Dichromanassa rufescens sph 3
Reddish egret (white phase) ________. Dichromanassa rufescens raph is 1
@attlecepreti. =. 2 eee pe ay, Bupuleusntbis=—. een ete 3
American: egrets. os tint we pte Casmerodius albus___-_._--__-_~ 1
148

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Ardeidae—Continued
Snowy egret. --<2+ =... = 2 2 eee Geucophoy2 thulas2 2-2-2 ee 2
Great white herons -=---—-=-——_ ==. Ar ded MOCccidentalisse === 2
Eastern green heron__.---.----~--_-- Butoribes virescens__._.________- 3
ouisianaheron=222 425) eee Hydranassa tricolor_______---__ 3
Black-crowned night heron__-----_--- Nycticoraw nycticorav__________ 12
Mittlewbluesneron=-=2+—2-.-————— = HlOmd an CGeTrulen es. eae 1
eastsbitterm=.—_ i222 2-— = Sees Tr obrychwiemevilis== =e il
Treripitterne- eas ee een ones Tigrisoma lineatum___--------- 2
Cochleariidae:
Boat-billedwherons=--oss=—]ese—e=——— Cochlearius cochlearius_________ 1
Balaenicipitidae:
Yaa ye) 05 0 Ges ae a A eee ee Balaeniceps rev -._-____-_____~_ 1
Ciconiidae:
American w000 1Diste---2=—22——-——— Mycteria americana ____.______-~ 8
European white stork_.------------ Ciconiaciconi. ne 4
Indianvadjutant stork2=———---- == Leptoptilos dubiuss—2— 1
White-bellied stork__.__------------ Abdimia sphenorhyncha_-------- 2
Threskiornithidae:
Wihitenibismes <. 22423222 Eudocimus aloug______._________ 2
Scarletsibisnes os bees _ sae ee DAT NOGITOOLS ORG Re 4
iBlack-faced/lbisesss2—soe eo eee one Theristicus melanopis___._.______ iL
Blackheadeduhis=s2—o- ee eee eee Threskiornis melanocephala____. 1
White-faced glossy ibis______------- Plegadis mewicana___--.-.---__ 2
Hastern ClOssyaqi isa eee 'Plegadis fatcinellus-2_ 5
oseate spoonbill==-==2=— ss AGG) Of0jG_2-- 3 cao 6
Phoenicopteridae:
Chilean faminzo.=22= eee Phoenicopterus chilensis___...__ 7
Cuban’ famingoss= ass aen2 eee Phoenicopterus ruber________-_- 1
Old’ World® flamingos222= 2s Phoenicopterus antiquorum_____ 1
iWwesser flamingos 2 2 eee Phoeniconais minor_.—.------__- 2
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
@rested SCreamen 2-52 - aaa enee eee Chauna torquata__._..---_.-._ ris 4
Anatidae:
Goscoroba swansee eee Coscoroba coscoroba____________ 4
Mutemswaneenas es. — eee eee eee Cygnus 0lorcsi cca a no eee 6
Black-necked swan]-.---_--------—— Cygnus melancoriphus_._____--__ 2
Wihooper SWaleese ces eee eee Olorscygnus== See 4
Winisthinors wanes ses - ee eee Olor columbianus——- 11
Trumpeternis wales see eee ee Olorbuccinator===—— 2
Black) swan -<----o-eeee ese eee Chenopis atrata_...---.-- = 2
Eeyptian goose 220202 See esc aee Alopochen aegyptiacus___.______- 1
White-fronted goose____------------ ANSETICUD TRONS ee eee 3
Indian bar-headed goose__-------_-- Hulavea indica nae eae eee 5
Hmperor  COOses aoe 2 a eee Place canagica= eee 2
Blue; woosess 2a eee eae Chen caerulescensio2--~ 2 es 6
Lesser snow goose__--_-_----------- Chen hyperborea hyperborea_____ D
Greater snow goose___-._-_--------- Chen hyperborea atlantica___._.- 5
Ross's: goose. 2. oe eee Chen 10s eee 4
Red-breasted goose._-...----------- Branta rujicollis.i 222 eee 4
SECRETARY’S REPORT 149

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Anatidae—Continued
Canada goose
Lesser Canada goose
Cackling goose
White-cheeked goose
Canada goose X blue goose, hybrid__ Branta canadensis X Chen

caerulescens. 2 222 ce eee 2
iWoodmauck=—.— =.= See a ees Ain SpOonsa= 22.32. ee ae Many
Wood duck X red-headed duck, Aix sponsa X Aythya americana_ 1

hybrid
Pintarle duck seb hu os wet.. wets Ands:acutas 2226.3 Janse 2 ee 10
Chestnut-breasted teal__-________-___ Anas castanea-— = ee ee il
Gadhia y= 2 aie wi em Anas strepend ss 20 aie be 5
Huropean. wigeon hse siie J222 sees’ Anasipenclopes sane _ tae Ss ee 5
Mallards duck= <3) 22 Ret | een 2 eee Anas platyrhynchos__---__------ 25
Mallard duck, albino=23- Anas platyrhynchos_____-------~ 1
Mallard duck X American pintail Anas platyrhynchos X Anas
duck, hybrid. ACita: 2245 See eee 1
Indian spotted-billed duck_-___-____ Anas poecilorhyncha__-_--------~ 1
Blacks Gu Ck a sete ster. as been watery sid Anasisubripes=25_ Shere 9
Greater:scaup ducks se aseses Saba! Aythyarmorila 22 Bhs as Sees Uf
IeSSeCISCaup GuCcks= = awe eee Aythyanafiniss 2. sestae As 5
Red-headed) duck——sssoees £5_ soak Aythya americana_______-_------ 9
Ring-necked duck____-_____________ Aythyancollaris === 252s) ae 3
Canvasback, duck sis2seate sop ata’ Aythya valisineria ___.-------~- if
iBuillehead ducks lens fle opel Bucephaia, albeola- = 1
American goldeneye________________. Bucephala clangula americana__ 1
Black-bellied tree duck______________ Dendrocygna autumnalig __-----~ 2
Malvousitreeiauck.2- 28 Dendrocygna bicolor ___-_------ 1
Mandarin«duck====—2ei hae Saas Dendronessa galericulata ____.-- 18
los Gh ney ee eee Mareca americana =-...-.-.222 10
Rosy-billed pochard____________-___. Metopiana peposaca ------------ 1
Red-crested pochard________________ Nettat rujfing a -~ = See ee  ee al
Cotton teal=s.--.~~. been hee ee Nettapus coromandelianus_____- 4
Combsduck= === 02 2 eee eee Sarkidiornis melanota____---_~~ 1
South African sheldrake____________ Casarca- cand 22. Seis! 2a 1
Rugddyzshelducke 2s ease ue ee Casarce. ferruginet=—=-- 22s 2
European shelduck___.-_____---_---. Tadorna tadornae —..---~----=-- 1
FALCONIFORMES

Cathartidae:
PAN MeANUCOUOCOT sae 2 == fos eS Valiurnory phi onra sano ee ee 1
Kinervulturesss setae ee Sarcoramphus papa —-_-__------ aL
blacks vulture m tn a ee ee Cordgyps atratis = =e 6
Hoodediyulturene 5 ee ee Necrosyrtes monachus__---~---- a
Ruppell's; vulture 2- se eS Gypsy rieppeliiiesn— te 3
Purkevavulture:"=2* = 225 Soe CULharlesnaur ane ne ee 9

Sagittariidae:
NeclLetary DITO 2.0 2 ee eee Sagittarius serpentarius__-_____- 2

Accipitridae:
African yellow-billed kite___...______ Malus) “Mig Ons eee 2
Brahminiys kite ee ee HM aQiashurnind eae SS 1
IBlvek-faced hawkee Leucopternis melanops ~-.------ u
ied-winged hawk... == esos 2 ee Heterospizias meridionalis_____- 1
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Accipitridae—Continued
Red=tatledthawk< 2-2! 2 ae Buteo jamaicensis-____ = 3
Red-shouldered hawk -__-_________- Buteo linéatus s22e28 28455". ss nf
Niwainson sthawkee 22. eee ee ae Buteo swainsoni. ....—-22=4-=22+ af
Mauduyt’s hawk-eagle______________ Spizaetus ornatusisoo_hs22-- at
Great black*hawka 224222505. 224555 Ictinaetus malayensis _---------~ al
Goldenveagless 252.2 25 AA eS. 2 Aguila vehrysactos=—-- ee 3
imperialweaglen 4 SL ee ee AlQiiiig, NENaca === = ae 2
White-breasted sea eagle_____-_-__-_- Haliaetus leucogaster __-_-_-----_- ni
Pallas’s eneie met so 8" eg Ee en Haliaetus leucoryphus_.___------ 1
Ipaldwea sles oo 2 ee ae Haliaetus leuwcocephalus_______- 5
Buzzardieagie..-.- Se awiai_ Set Buteo poecilochrous________._-. 1
Harpy.eagle:. 2... Sees. a ae8 Or pit¢@herpiyji- = ee 2
Guianan crested eagle__-____-___---_- Morphnus guidnensis _-.-------- a
Monkey-eating eagle______-__-----_-- Pithecophaga jefferyi __-_._----- 1
Bateleur eagle ese kee wsu leis eyret Terathopius ecaudatus _._------- 2
Bearded’ vulturel ee toss Ge eke ones Gypaetus “barbatus 2-8-8. Ss il
Falconidae:
Sparrowhawk. seu tea see Falco sparverius2s0s4 2s Sss2 SS 5
Duckghawk 252522 eee ee ote — Falco peregrinus anatum__-_--_-~ 1
Red-footed falcon, or crane hawk__--. alco vespertinus 220: se ee af
Horestifaléons = Micrastur semitorquatus__------~ 2
Chimangotc2222.. Steen eee are hes Milvago chimango_.-----~=-=-=. 2
Chimachima- bawkise sels sea es Milvago chimachima__---~------ 1
Audubon’s.caracara_-----_--_--__--. Polyborus cheriway 222. ss 3
White-throated caracara____-__--_- Phalcoboenus albogularis____----~ 3
GALLIFORMES
Megapodiidae:
IBTUSH tULKe yess te ee ee Allectura: lathamiz soak 1
Cracidae:
Blue-cered curassow....------------ Oran albertiz22 henson Bates 1
Wiattled curassow 2----- =) = ee Cran globulosa. 2. St eee 2
Panama, CurassOwassass225- sae Crag nanamensis===-- =) 1
Nocturnal curassowelo=- 222-255 -2.— Nothocraz urumutum____------- if!
White-headed piping guan__________. Pipile cumanensis_____.---.---- 1
Phasianidae:
Hrekel’s trancoline -seeet ss Sn a Francolimus erckéliz 282-22 ee il
Hildebrandt’s trancoline 2-23-2222 Francolinus hildebrandti__.__-__ 2
IB OD=wiite sae i ee ee ear Colinus virginianus__.____.__.<=. al
Chukarniquarl feos Oe ae eee ee AL CCLOTAS SOT GCCQs—= a ee ae 4
Gambelis quail ae cu eee eee ak Lophortym gambelt 22222 -2 2
Wiatlley. QU ail ce ae sae is Lophortyx vatlicola________.___— 6
AT EUS PHEASANT ease ee eae Argusianus argus_—-- 1
Golden pheasant.2=2 =e eae Onrysolopnus pictusses ns ee 7
Onogadorl, chickena22 2 och (GLUES GULLS Sn oe 2
Red junglerow le As otk eae GOLLUS TOONS Ss Se a ee 6
Nepal pheasants 2502 ae Gennaeus leucomelanus_________ Be:
Black-backed kaleege pheasant_____- Gennaeus melanonotus_______--- 2
Silver pheasants2 22202 ee ee Gennaeus nycthemerus__________ at
B BcCSr ls 09 7 ER ge aa Ee eS Ee OS IPOVOUCTASTOTUS = a ee 5
Ring-necked pheasant_____._.________. Phasianus colchicus=.—— = 2 = 4
Ring-necked pheasant, albino_______- Phastanus colchicus__.__~--.... 2

SECRETARY'S REPORT 151

Family and common name Scientijic name Number
Phasianidae—Continued
Ring-necked pheasant X green pheas- Phasianus colchicus X P. versi-

ant, hybrid COLO 2a Been ee Se ee il
Bhutan, or gray peacock pheasant___. Polyplectron bicalcaratum___--~-~ 2
eeves’s) pheasant. 22=---- 2 Syrmaticus reevesi.________-~-~ 2
Numididae:

Vultuninescuineatowls 23s = Acryllium vulturinum____------- 3
Meleagrididae:

Ocellatedsturkey2 222 2 38 Agriocharis ocellata_______.-_~- 2

Walditmriey 22 282 2 fees et ae ered Meleagris gallopavo_______------ 5

GRUIFORMES

Gruidae:

Siberianxerane: 32 coe ee eee = Grus lewcogeranus=——_— =~ ---=-— 1

Wemoiselle.crane. 4222 40 Se Anthropoides virgo_____________ ql

Sartsrerane=- 2s eee ee ee Antigone antigone__________-__- 2

African crowned crane_...______-_-.- Balearica pavonina_____________ 6
Psophiidae:

AMVEROWEEY 0; YR eet a ad oe se an SS Psophiawerepitansea2 222.) 2
Rallidae:

Cayennerwood rail eee ee ATAMVCES COI UNC ne ee 2

Vainoimigeratl a2. eke see eee eee Raetiussimicolas== ee ee al

DEG OPEC yeep es ce Ie i Rap a TOMS CLEC AS re Rene enn eee ai

Purpleyvcallinuless<22 sso ose ese Tonornis martinica_—__—_ = 2-2 2

South Pacific swamp-hen___________- Porphyrio poliocephalus_________ 1

PAM CTI CAN GCOUtE Se ae en ee ee EWU CONAMCTICANG a eee al
EKurypygidae:

SUnspicterne ee ee ee Urn yl a Leis eee 1
Cariamidae:

Cariama, or’ seriamas= 22022 See OCA OS CLIStOLO enn eee 1
Otididae:

Senecalgpustard# 222 sea a sees Eupodotis senegalensis_________- 2

CHARADRIIFORMES

Jacanidae:

Common jacana... 2 ene eee JAGCONG-8PiNO80.222 ee 2
Haematopodidae:

Oystercatcher. J apie Haematopus ostralegus_____-__~ 2
Charadriidae:

Goldenyplover-<2 2. SOS ine Aetoe Ag Charadrius apricarius______---- 2

Australian banded plover___________ ZoniferntTicolor Mee Dae 3

European lapwing__________________ Vanellus vanelinsi2 uate ae ist 4

South American lapwing__-________- Belonopterus cayennensis_____-- 4

Crocodile bird 22 eabns8 susan Pluvialis aegyptius._._______.___-- vi
Scolopacidae:

Pectoral sandpiper. ois ase es wel Erolia melanotos__-.___-__-__~ u |
Recurvirostridae:

Black-necked stilt_..__»s us Himantopus mewxicanus_____----~ 1
Burhinidae:

South American thick-knee_________- Burhinus bistriatus_._.._.____---~ 1
Stercorariidae:

MacCormick'’s skuase ike) cued ays Catharacta maccormicki___----- 2

625325—62——_11
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Laridae:
Ring-pilledseullas so. eee Larus delawarensis____.__------- 3
Kelp ule Se ee are eens Larus dominicanus______--_-_-— 8
Jiaughing gullss22 = 2 ae GOS OU ACUL = eee ee il
erring 2ullece eee TGGOTUS ATG CNW Sane 3
Western, or California gull__-______. Larus argentatus californicus___-~ 2
Great black-backed gull____________ LOS MATS ee 2
Silver! oull2 oe one Soe ee Larus novaehollandiae__-------- 8
Mranklinis Ul eese e eeeeee Barus piptccanes 2
Noddy, term=222-—- ae -  ae ANOUS = SlLOLLUNSe = 2
COMMON tern eee ee ee Sterna hirunde hirunde__------- 4
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Band-tailed pigeon==---— = Columbes ascii? 2
High-flying Budapest pigeon______~-_. Count. ee eee 9
Black-billed pigeon_-__------____---- Columbia nigrirostris_____._.__-~ 1
Triangular spotted pigeon________-_-_- Columba guinea___-------- weaoHTS 2
Crownedipigeone22222 2S 2on es Gouravulclorid= = ee if
iBlueieround dovelas =a ee Claravis pretiosas—2 = 5
Ruddy ground dovel-—-- =. == =e Chaemepelia rufipennis_______---~ q
Indian emerald-winged tree dove__-_-- Chalcophaps imdica-—---———-- = 10
Bleeding-heart dove-=—=----—-2——=-— Gallicolumba luzonica___-_~----~ 2
Wiamond Govessas= == — 2 Geopelia. cuneditaz22_ == il
Plain-breasted ground dove______-_--. Columbigallina minuta___------- 12
Ground: doves2-=2222 525 oe es Columbigallina passerina____----~ 5
Rine-necked Govesss222— 2 SS Streptopelia decaocto__-_----~-- a
Blue-headed ring dove___------_---_ Streptopelia tranquebarica_____- 2
White-winged dove__---__----------_ Zend aa Gsi tice =e 1
Mourningid 0Ve@s=222 ees =a ane = Zenaidura macroura_-—_--------~- 3
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
LGA, (TRVO ROG Gee ee Nestor NOLMOIS) 2 2
ReCg OR ye eee Domicella garrula ____---------- 2
Banksian’ cockatoo! 222====2=======— Calyptorhynchus magnificus —-~- a
Wiite cockatooy = 2s222—222-22s 222 UGUNHINS NE See 2
Solomon Islands cockatoo__----~---- Kakatoe ducrops) 2 ae 1
Sulphur-crested cockatoo ~----~----- makatoe galerntt@ 2. ee ae 4
Bare-eyed cockatoo ~--------------- Kakatoe sanguinea —~___-____-__ 5
Great red-crested cockatoo ~-----~--~ Kakatoe moluccensis ~--------- 1
Leadbeater’s cockatoo ~------------ Kakatoe leadbeateri ____.__----- 7
Cockatiel == sees Nymphicus hollandicus ~------- 7
Yellow-and-blue macaw ~----------- APG OFOUrdUnd 2 ees 3
Red-and-blue macaw —-~~~_--------- Al ChIOTODLET.G, ee ee 3
Red-blue-and-yellow macaw —_---~-- Ara hNOCEO: 2 eee Ye
Mlizer’simacaw, ass = eee Ara maracana —_-_~~~~~~~_---- 2
Brown-throated conure ~__--_-~---- Conurus aeruginosus ____--___-- 2
Petz’s parakeet 22) shi 2 sea Aratinga canicularigs ~__.--___~ 1
Rusty-cheeked parrot ~..._...---_-. Aratinga pertinay _____-____-- 2
Tovi parakeet! mise owe ces en Brotogeris jugularis ____-___-_- 1
Yellow-naped parrot -._____________ Amazona auropalliata __--_-__- 5
SECRETARY’S REPORT 153

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
Minsenis parrots sea -— AmaZOnGuINSChin ae 1
Blue-rronted) parrot -——-——————— === AMAZONG Gestiva soo eee il
ed-fronted parrots] —- =e Amazona 00d = 1
Double yellow-headed parrot ~------ AGEZONGLOLAUD pe 3
Black-headed, or Nanday parrot _-_-_ Nandayus nanday ~------------ 9
Mineolated parakeet 2 2=-=2-—2.2--=2- Bolborhynchus lineolatus —~----- 7
White-winged parakeet ~----------- Brotogeris versicolurus ~------- 1
Malabar, or blue-winged parrot ---. Psittacula columboides ~--~---- 4
Blossom-headed parakeet ~----~---- Psittacula cyanocephala ___----- 10
Greater ring-necked parakeet ~_---- Psittacula eupatria ~_.--------- 3
Rose-breasted parakeet ~--_-------- Psititacula alexandri ~_-------- 1
Moustached parakeet —-----.--_-.-= Pritioculejesciue 1
Lesser ring-necked parakeet _____-__- Psitiacla kamen. 6
Barraband’s parakeet ~-_________-~ Polytelis swainsoni —--____~--_- 1
Quakersparakeet = 2----- a= Myopsittacus monachus ~------- Livy
Budgerigar, or grass parakeet ______ Melopsittacus undulatus ~-._---- 4
RoOsyvataceqnOvebinds =. ae ee Agapornis roseicollis ~--_.--.-- 2
Masked Movebird j2os2-——— ee Agapornis personata ~--_------- al
Black-headed caique, or seven-color
TOE Hy a a eo ee Pionites melanocephala ~___---~ 2
Yellow-thighed caique ~__-_________ Pionites leucogaster canthomeria_ 1
CUCULIFORMES
Musophagidae:
Purple-headed turaco ~..__._-___.... Gallirexr porphyreolophus ~----- 1
South) Actrican ‘turaco 22-2 S22 sas Tauraco corythaig —~--..--_---- 2
White-bellied go-away bird ~------- Corythaizoides leucogaster ~_--- 1
Plantain-eateras2< ts ae eee Orinifer africanus ~2----------- al
Cuculidae:
Rip Wen iene 2 et SEIN? Le AGS ke Eudynamys scolopacea —------- a
PRMRBERDIRL OT?) 322 NE oe SS are Geococcyxr californianus ~_----~-- 2
Coucal, or crow-pheasant ~--------- Oentropus sinensis ~.---------- 3
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
PUR OWWA (Ask oh wae eh te te te is TiytoGvog. Bae Se hee ee ee 1
Strigidae:
Great ihorned: owl. 222208202! 2 Bubo virginianus_____---------- 6
SELCCCNEO Woes = eeu cue Otusiasio fe a 3
spectacled tows esses bien NS on a ll Pulsatriz perspicillata_______--- al
Maltyedishing owls 22 be Ketina hetiinu.-. 228 2
POW NEO ee Sete So tt elt Nuctea nyctee = 4
Barredso wiles ee sn tte bie Siig Carpig se SE ea eth 16
IB UELO WAN gs OW la ea ie dt Speotyto cunicularia hypugaea__ 3
Nepal brown wood owl____________- Strie newarensig_______-------- a
Shore-eared . owli ese ee ee Alsto™ AOMMCUS os oe a
awewnetOwl ac! se ee thal Aegolius acadicus_.______.------ 2

COLIIFORMES
Coliidae:
MOUSCDITO 2 2-2 eee oe a ee Oolius striatuge— 22 coe eee et 1
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

TROGONIFORMES
Family and common name Scientific name
Trogonidae:
Cuban*trogano= eee Priotelus temnurusas 22s
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
KMookaburrat 22252 eee DOCCLONOLU CS ee ee
Coraciidae:
iilac-breasted (rollers os 2a Coracias caudata______-__----
Indian roller 22.22 2222222 Coracias benghalensis_________
Bucerotidae:
Pied shorn bill S222 ot ae eee ee ee Anthrococeros malabaricus____
Concave-casqued hornbill__________-. (BUCCT OS MOLCOTNT Sa aa
Abyssinian ground hornbill__-_____~_ Bucorvus abyssinicus__--_----
Gay OTN Dale TOCKUSWOIOStTis== ===
Great black casqued hornbill____-_~_-. Ceratogymna atrata______-_--
Malavany horn bi) Sass ss eee Alceros wndwlatus= ==
Crowned ?hornbill= ee Tockus alboterminatus______--
Yellow-billed hornbill______________- Tockus flavirostris_____-_-----
PICIFORMES
Capitonidae:
Asiatic great barbet=2 2 Megalaima virens____--_-~---
Crimson-breasted or coppersmith
DaThet 2a eae SST Fe. Megalaima haemacephala_____
FFOUCAT DAT DGC = es te Semnornis ramphastinus______
Ramphastidae:
White-lined toucanet_______________ Aulacorhynchus albivittatus___
Sulphur-breasted toucan____________ Ramphastos carinatus__---_--
White-and-sulphur-breasted toucan_._ Rhamphastos vitellinus______-
I NOKe NT 0} 0 (Ch RT OE a ee Ramphastos ariel____-_--_____
Cuviers toucan ese Sees Ramphastos cuvieri___._____--
Picidae:
Golden-backed woodpecker__________ Brachypternus benghalensis___
Scaly-bellied woodpecker___________- PiCGusEsSquamatise= =e
PASSERIFORMES
Tyrannidae:
Hasternpkine pind === Tyrannus tyrannus___--------
Pittidae:
Indians pitta eee ere Oe Pitta onachyu,.G2 eee
Alaudidae:
Horned lark te) see Tae es Hremophila alpestris_________-
Corvidae:
Ou EW 9 0c eee ee ae ee TRS eR BAY BC PiCOeDiCh ae Scan eae
Yellow-billed+margpie.-—- eee Picante eee
Asiatic* tree) pie elt ea eee ae Crypsirina formosde______----
Maepi ejay ec ae Calocitta formosa.22 2s aaa
IBlUOYj ayes. =-- +L SE ee Cyanocitia cristata
Stelleris jaye = 2-22 Ree Oyanocitta stetlert_.-
UTODCONG)| Ras ee oe ee Garrulus glandarius_________-
African white-necked crow______-__—- Conus lous == == ee
ANN Ori CaNAGlOW == = = a eee ee Corvus brachyrhynchos_______-

RAV GNe ia. abe oo oes See ee ae OCOTUUSICOTA Dane eee

Number

LS)

Oo Oe

HoOnpwprthwrFnwprHa

SECRETARY’S REPORT

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Corvidae—Continued
indian CLO Wee ee ee Corvus splendens-——~-~—~=-.—~-= 1
Formosan red-billed pie___-------~-- Oissalcwerulegssstie sii ees 6
Occipitalebluepie-2 ess _ eee. Cissa, occipttalis. 22 saee aes al
untine crows 2c een Ae ease 2 Orssarchinensishs ste 3
near ayes el ATOR a Ae ee Manthounauyncas= 22) an eee 1
Cracticidae:
White-backed piping crow__--------. Gymnorhina hypoleuca___-_----- 1
Paridae:
Red-headed tit. ee es eee Aegithaliscus concinnus_____--_~ 1
Grentrtits 2 se. eee Oe ee ree Paris majoras eee PA ee ee i
Ger aivert tee te 2 EAGT: Sho eae POrts) M0jO7e 2 2 nes ares Bee 3
WnEtedetiimouses== 25245" Aone IRarUsyOtCOlOTs Sa See 3
WHI Cka Gee aa tse as eee Parus, atricapitlus 2-2 ee oft
Wellow-cheeked! tite 2-22-2222. 2s Parus wanthogenys___________== il
Sittidae:
Chestnut-bellied nuthateh_________-_- Nitig.casiancas = ee 1
Timaliidae:
White-crested laughing thrush_____-. Garrulan, bicolor = ae 4
Dit-bapplers 2. jo ee Lee VAAN LU ICO sa eee 1
Binek-headedysibiawess eee aa, Heterophasia capistrata_________ Be
SilVer-CAreg eM CSis= ets ak ae Mesia argentauris_____—-----___= 6
JENA TRO) Vr Se eee ee IO SOA MRE RUT GO ees ee +f
White-capped redstart___________--- Chaimarrhornis leucocephalus___ 2
Pycnonotidae:
Red-eared: pulbul] 2 3 232 ee Pycnonotus jocosus__..._ —__- 1
iBlack-headed) bulbulsssc=_ sae nneen Pycnonotus atriceps____________ 8
ed-ventedsbulbul22 eee La aie PA CHOnOTUS -COlCi === ae eee 5
White-cheeked bulbul_________-____- Pycnonotus leucogenys__------_- 6
Wehite-eared bulbul=2=2 25 ete e- Pycnonotus leucotig22o-=- —— --— il
Troglodytidae:
CWArolinawren= 2 Sete eats ple reves Thryothorus ludovicianus_____-- 1
Mimidae:
Mockine bird. 22] 4— See ek eb et Mimus polygtotios_______-_--_ _— al
CEE Hh OY U6 UE eS ae nS ee Ie ee Dumetella carolinensis__________ 3
Turdidae:
Robin wal bing = sesh ase eee Ae Turdus migratorius________-___— 1
European song thrush______________ LUT Ue CTACClLONUN = ae 2
Blackbird == ei eh at en oe TUrdus Merl Gee 2
@lifiveh ates oot ee ey bein = Thamnolaea cinnamoneiventris__ 1
Motacillidae:
Wahi wis 2 aide es ed at De Motaciia albass 2
Sturnidae:
Rose-colored pastor______---_------. PGSTOT TOS CUS Dees Wi 1
Purple starlings! seb e ced 2 ete be Lamprocolius purpureus________ 3
Burchell’s long-tailed starling_______ Lamprotornis caudatus___._____ al
AMEHY SL SLavling = 2s nee ae Cinnyricinchus leucogaster______ 1
'Tricolored Starling 2s. 3 eee ke SPreo Supervise see ee al
PSOE of bh git apes Ea, SUED BO Sturnus vulgaris. 2
gunslenmynah = 23). 4 ie ee Acridotheres tristis___._._._____ iL
Lesser hill mynah___-_-____________ Gracula religiosa indica__._____~ 1
Greater Indian hill mynah__________. Gracula religiosa intermedia____ 2
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Nectariniidae:
Scarlet-chested sunbird______--_____ Chalcomitra rubescens___---_--- 1
Eastern double-collared sunbird_____ Cinnyris’ mediocrisz====. === 2
Variable:sunbird=- 22a Cinnyris venustusi— i= =e 2
Scarlet-tufted malachite sunbird___-. Nectarinia johnstoni_______-_-_- 24
Beautituljsunbird= eee Nectarinia pulchelia____-____-_— 1
Tecasse:sunbird==-=2-2.220 022 Nectarinia tacagze-—-———---- == 1
Zosteropidae:
AVA CO= ey eee ce ae aes we a Zosterops palpebrosa______----- 8
Coerebidae:
Black-headed sugarbird_____--_____- Chlorophanes spiza______.____-_- 2
Purplessugarbird2]2222 3222S ee Cyanerpes coeruleas—_2— === = 4
Blue or yellow-winged sugarbird__~__. Cyanerpes cyaneus_____--_--__— 4
Bananequitses 22s eee Coereba flaveolaLu2-2 =e 1
Parulidae:
Ovenbird == se ee ee, Seiurus aurocapillus_____------- a
Ploceidae:
Red-naped widowbird___-----------. Coliuspasser laticauda___----~-- 10
Giantiwhydah=— eee eee Diatropura procne==—=- 2 a!
IBAYa WeAVerD==2-. oe eee PlOCEUS 0G G=22=2—— eee 3
Vitelline masked weaver___--------- Ploceus viichinits 3
Mahaliiweavers-2 2 oes eee Ploceipasser mahali_____---~---- 1
IRedbishop weaver-—o es = aaa. IO WAHES OF re te i
Yellow-crowned bishop weaver__-_-_--. IY MAGAS (3 a 2
White-headed  nun=2222-- 22222222 ==2 GOnChuUra mej 4
Bengalesetinch=.— =) saan eae. LOnChurd Sp:2-—--- ee eee 6
Cut-throat weaver finch___-----_--_-. Amadina, fjasciate== = = 1
Lavenderinch==-—22 eee Hstrilda coerulescens-2-—-—= === 2
Strawberry, inches Estrilda amandava___-----~---- 5
Red-eared wax eee FE Strilag masini d= 1
Commoniwaxbill= ee eee Hstritlda troglodytes. —=—= == 2 al
Zebra finche 22 eae eee Poephila castanotis______._------ 13
Gouldian) finch: 2 ~ == ese Poephiia gould 1
Java fnch=222 See eee, POUdG@ OTYZUOTO == soe ee 8
Icteridae:
Yellow-headed marshbird___----_--~ Xanthocephalus ranthocephalus— 1
Ricevgrackle- 2.223 2225 = 2k seats Psomocolaa oryzivora_-__-------- 1
Purplecrackle= ee = Quiscalus quisculas se 12
Swainson’s grackle_-___-___-_-__---- Holoquiscalus lugubris_____---.- 1
Boat-tailedierackiet= 2 See Megaquiscalus major____------- 2
Glossy, cowbitdS2-22s2s2-==-— soe Molothrus bonariensis___------- 8
Brown-headed cowbird_------------. MOLOENTUSHALCT == an ae eee 2
IBaVZCOW DITO Se ee eee Molothrus tadiis= eee 2
Colombian red-eyed cowbird__-----~ Tangavius armenti___________-- 1
Red-winged blackbird_-____-___-__-- Agelaius phoeniceus________---- 4
Red-breasted marshbird__---------~ Leistes militarig__.....__..____~ 10
Troupial {2222 ee eee Toeterusictenus2= ee 2
Crested oropendola___-_____-------- Xanthornus decumanus____----- 1
Thraupidae:
Bluewtanagersc22 2 eee RG GAUDITS) COND == ee ee 1
White-edged tanager_____________-_ Thraupis leucoptera_____-___--— 2
Violettanager. 2. -322Nc Ws bE Huphonia violacea_____-__------ 2

SECRETARY’S REPORT 15¢

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Thraupidae—Continued
Black-and-white tanager_____~---_-- Cissopis leveriana__.___________- 1
Yellow-rumped tanager__--_-------- Ramphocelus icteronotus______-~ 1
RASSCLINiATtane 2eno === == Ramphocelus passerinii________- 1
Reds tanager. oo. oo eae aoa PAP ONGE RUT dae eee nee ee 1
Fringillidae:
RICA PTOSDCA Ke == ne eee Oryzoborus crassirostris_______- 1
Hyenings grosbedk---—--—----2— ae Hesperiphona vespertina____-_-- 6
iprazalianicardinglo === == Paroaria cucullatas = 222 oss 1
Black-throated cardinal______------ Paroaniag quiarisa = se ee 7
Black-eared cardinal_—..=---_-____— Paroaria gularis nigro_--_-----~-- Pe
Carding aon an oe ee Richmondena cardinalis______--- 3
Hauropeanelinnet= =. a. -- ee ee Carduelis cannabina___________- 6
Nuropean, goldfinch==——-----———--_ = Carduelis carduelig____-__ 3
European goldfinch X canary, hybrid. Carduelis carduelis X Serinus
CONUIAUS nn ee ae ee 1
CRATE ep ee ee leds sie ae Se a Serinus’ canartss ee 2
Green) finch@= fesse en eee Ohioris chioris==ssss se Sees 2
Wesser yellow: finGh= == 2-2-2 ea Sicalisiteotds= = ae 2
SafironghnGh oon see ee SiCduss avo a ae 6
iWitite-lned fincho vo cess eae Spermophila lineola___________- 5
Huropean. pullineh== 2. Pyrrhule pyr 7 hulgae Dr
Melodious 2rassquil==- =.) == TAGQTiS CONC G2 eee 1
Onafinehs 222. =. aoe i oe eee ee TIN GUes COCLEUS See ene eee i
Nlate-colored, juncOs-2—--- 52-2 -- AUITCOMILUCIIUCLES sen neeen een eons 1
Bull-thnroated, Saltator-2--=--—-—-——— Saltator manimnusss2—-- 1
Tawny-bellied seedeater______-_-_---_ Sporophila minuta2_2-_ = uf
SONSESDALEOW soo a= ee ee a ee ee Metlospiza metodia_ 222 = es al
DT CKCISNG pete ee ee Spize americand.—__ 2s 5
White-throated sparrow__---------_ ZLonotrichia albicotlis_——_——— —-—= il
White-crowned sparrow__-_-------- Zonotrichia leucophrys____------ Pe
MellOowAaIMMer se eee ee Emberiza citrinetia_____________ al
Huropean bunting =.) =. - = Hmoberiza catandra ee 7a
CL ISEW ELE TSU WO eect ed Bt De Te Re Volatinta, jacarint2 3
Tropical seed neh os a eee eee Oryzoborus ‘torridus= 3
REPTILES
LORICATA
Alligatoridae:
Cone Tie a Pee a eee ee Caiman. sclerops=_ =~ 72
LBS EG ce(errh boat bse ee on ees ee Melanosuchus niger-——----—- == 8
Americamalligator == 252. ee ees Alligator mississipiensis_______- 9
Chineseralligators= 252. oe Alligator sinensis= == —-— === 2
Crocodilidae:
Broad-nosed crocodile_______________ Osteolaemus tetraspig_________-- 2
iAfricamicrocodile 2 a eS Crocodytus miloticus___.-.---_—- 2
Narrow-nosed crocodile_____________. Crocodylus cataphractus_____--_ 1
Salt-water crocodile...___._._______. Crocodylus porosus__....._.__.- 1
American crocodile==---- 2525-2. Crocodylus agutus__._._-_-___-- 2
Gavialidae:

indianioa vial sees ak noe a Gavialis gangeticus__________--- 1
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

CHELONIA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Chelydridae:
Snapping turtles see eae Chelydra serpentina____________ Many
Alligator snapping turtle____________ Macrochelys temminckii________ 1
Kinosternidae:
Muskiturtlex stat 8 eS Sternotherus odoratus__________ 3
Muditurtlets:5 £) ese ise ie ee Kinosternon subrubrum____-____ 7
South American mud turtle_-________- Kinosternum cruentatum____---__ 2
Hmydidae:
ES ONG UET EL Ce ees ee a Terrapene carolina________-____ Many
Three-toed box turtles. — =>) == == Terrapene c. triunguis___________ Oe
Ornateiboxturtle 2 eee Terrapeney OTNatdaae ee 1
Moridaiboxiturtles- 222 ees TeCniapene 0CUi tas aaa ee 1
Kourarkura boxatuntles ss. s see Cuora amboinensis______________ 2
Diamondbacks turtles eee Malaclemys terrapin____._.______ 8
ET oo 8 Ol (= epee ne eee Graptemys geographica_________ 22
Malseimap turpless so. ee ee Graptemys pseudogeographica___ 2
iBarbourssmMap i tuctles=222>—-— === Graptemys barbouri____________ 4
Raintediturtle:= 22225 4 oc a Ohrysemys pica Many
Western painted turtle_____________- Chrysemys picta belli___ttt____ 15
Cumberland turtles eee Pseudemys scripta troostii______ 23
South American red-lined turtle_____- Pseudemys scripta callirostris___ 2
Yellow-bellied turtle___.________-__-_-. Pseudemys scripta scripta_____- 15
Red-bellied) turtles= 222s. s ae es Pseudemys rubriventris________ 10
Red-careaturtlewa. 2s ee eee Pseudemys scripta elegans_____- 12
Southern water turtle-—__ == == Pseudemys floridana____________ alr ¢
Florida red-bellied turtle____________ Pseudemys nelsoniz_ 2. 2
Central American turtle____________- Pseudemys ornata___.___-_--___. 2
Cubanswaterturtle=222 2-2 as Pseudemys decussata__________- 1
@hieker Gurl eee eee Deirochelys reticularia__._______ 1
Spotted tturtles= 222 ee eee Clemmys, guttata ee 4
Wioodituntlotir 2 ie a ee Clemmys insculpta_.___.___-___._ 6
Iberian)pond turties-——— Clemmysleprostz.=—— 2 = 2
European pond turtle_________--_-_-. Emys orbicularis____.__.__.._..- 8
Blanding‘s'turtlesi- 2226222 oe. Emys blandingiit_-__------------ 2
Reeve siturcle. esse ee eee Ohinemys reevesitz2 = 4
Testudinidae:
Giant Aldabra ‘tortoise.22-—- =~ Se Testudo elephantina___.__._____ 2
Galipagos® tortoises so. 2222 22222 Testudo vicina =e 2
Duncan Island tortoise_________---- Testudo ephippiwms = 2
South American tortoise______----- Testudo tabulttazs2222- Se 1
Star tortoise! nese se ee Hestudoneltegans==— sa eee 2
HuToOpeany LOLloOlsese = sees ee Testudovgraccas=2222 eee 1
Pelomedusidae:
African water turtles Pelomedusa subrufa_______-____ 2
African black mud turtle__.__._____-__ IPElTUstOS ni gTiCansa ue. eee 1
Amazon spotted turtle__.__.._.__.__- Podocnemis unifilis._-___--_--___ De
Chelydidae:
South American side-necked turtle__ Batrachemys nasuta__._._________ 2
Australian side-necked turtle__.____ Chelodina longicollis_________.-~ 3
Small side-necked turtle____________ Hydromedusa tectifera______-__ 2
Large side-necked turtle___._________ PRAYNODSTLT A ee 8
Wreftts Stuncles soe Bk eee Hmydura kreffiti.__-—_______.. 8

SECRETARY’S REPORT

159

Family and common name Scientijio name Number
Chelydidae—Continued
Murray tute. eee Emydura macquarrii______---_- 3
South American gibba turtle___----- Mesoclemmys gibba__--_-------- 2
Wiatheaged- turtle=—- a=. Platemys platycephala_____----- 3
Trionychidae:
Southern soft-shelled turtle__------- TONY D SCT OM asa = ean ene 5
African soft-shelled turtle____-_----- Trionys triunguis.____________-- 2
SAURIA
Gekkonidae:
Ginn er eCK Osa sare ae Gekko. stentor.. 2 a ee 1
Nelson's -2eCK 02. = ae Be Aristelliger nelsoni_.__-_--------- 1
Bandedecccko == eee eee Coleonyw variegatus_______---__ al
Iguanidae:
Common, iguanas=22c0esetees seins Iguana iguana 22. === 3
WarolinAs <AnOle: Jaa hs ee ee eeY Anolis carolinensis_________----~ Many
NeGISOnIS anoles = Sas eee Se sees Anolis neisont._ BV ene Aas 1
Giants anoles ie es ee Anolis, equestniss 2s =e 1
Nexas -horned. lizard usssiass sess Phrynosoma cornutum__—--~--- 1
Crested. lizards hive ssArk eens” Leiocephalus varius_______----- 3
Blues scaly. lizard22s2 he. seincuiens! Sceloporus cyanogenys—----~---- at
Menee slizards:. 2/212 ose _ ssde nn nit Sceloporus undulatus______----~ 2
Spiny-tailed iguana____.--_--_----- Otenosaura acanthura______---- 1
Scincidae:
Mourning skink—— = see S43. ale Egernia luctwosa____-_--=—----_ 2
DIGS SiN ke ee ey eS Egernia. whitei_ase 2 22a 4
Greater five-lined skink___-_-----~- Eumeces fasciatus______- mee ifs iL
Broad-headeds skinks_Os 0865s Seen Humeces. laticeps.——2-==-—-- == a!
(Great. plains Skink o— s-seper ee ee Humeces obsoletus.______=--=== 1
Sandeskink. 2 stwtivs otalnis Streit y Scincus officinalis__________---- 4
Stump-tailed skink___________----_ THqua, TUGOs@= 22 See Weiss il
Malayan. skink <=) 2 tv iiyhneg 6 taing Mabuya multifasciata______---- 2
Gerrhosauridae:
Plated, lizard 28 Savers he lite reno Gerrhosaurus major_____-----~- al
Teiidae:
Blackaitega tis wbeton oti isievers a: to Tupinambis nigropunctatus____- iI
Varanidae:
Dumeril’s smonitors=2 2) wee Varanus dumerili__..--.____---- 1
Indian: amonitor ts 222i Shien Varanus flavescens______------- tt
Malayan Jmonitorscin (abt tere ge Varanus salvator______=--.---- al
Indianymonitorsoky 2 epee gee.’ Varanus bengalensis_______----- 1
Pakistan’ monitors wlehasen Varanus griseus_______-_------- 2
Australian lace monitor____________ Varanus varius______---------- 8
Helodermatidae:
Mexican beaded lizard_____________ Heloderma horridum____------- 1
Beaded lizard (black phase) -___-~ Heloderma horridum___-------- i
Gilaamonster+ss uence ma” Heloderma suspectum__.-----~-- 1
Anguidae:
GCilassplizea nde ete Ophisaurus ventralis_____.----- 3
SERPENTES
Boidae:
HaSTUCN CUS V0 BW orks cape pedir, ene ER aed Eunectes murinus_____--------- 1
PET COT 0 ane ene ee ere ee ne Boa enydris enydrig________---- 1
Goes tree. pom .o- a Boa enydris cookt_____---------- 6
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientijic name Number
Boidae—Continued
IbOas CONStri Clones ee ee eee Oonstrictor constrictor_________-_ 1
Hmperor \Wodla22 222 ee ee Constrictor imperator____-___---- il
Cubsany round: boas. 2. ae ee Tropidophis melanura__-__----_-- 1
Rainbowshoaa sts oe ee Epicrates cenchria._———___ 2 = 4
Cubanwmtrees boass2 = aa ee Epicrates anguiferio_— = 3
AS sai etary yl OT eee ee a IPACRONAR CUMS Se ee “eal
imndiansrock python=2==2 2222222 5 == Pat ROWmMNOVUn C8 ae ee 2
megalepython= oss ee Python reticulatus_..--___-=- <= 1
Colubridae :
Watersnake: 2. . eine ae are Natrigusipedons==2- pee 2
European grass snake____-_-__-_--- Natwiainatics ees 1
Diamond-backed water snake______~_ Natriarrnhomoifperd=. === 1
Red-bellied water snake______-_-__- Natriz erythrogaster________--_-~ 1
Tslandsawater.snakes==s. seu. estes Natnioinsulanums = =a es 1
Manernoves snakete = 22 Sessa ees Natrie« compressicauda_________-- al
Florida green water snake________-- Natria cyclopion floridana_____-- 1
Queeniksnalke hues eee 2 reel Ae Natria septemvitta_____________— 2
Garter .smakce yeh op ea aye) Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis_____ 3
Ribbonwsnake esses ain ee Thamnophis sauritus_.-.----.-- 6
Ring-necked snakes) 4s See ewee Diadophis punctatus edwardsii_ 1
Blacksracers_ see eae ate | eee eee SS Coluber constrictor constrictor__ 5
ede TACCiS savas et Se Seed ee Masticophis flagellum____---.--- 1
Asiaticnatisnakes > ea TED KE UCR DWI Ra oe al
Lesser Indian rat snake____________ TONES Cop HO 1
Pilotblackisnake= eae ee ee Hlaphe obsoleta obsoleta______-_ 3
Pilot black snake (albino) __._-.-__~ Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta_.______- al
Hox: isnake-2. = = oi. veil wa irs _ eceteh erie Elaphe vulpine. oie eeete 2
Cornysnake®..— 2 eee. ae Elaphe obsoleta guttata________-_ BD
Lindheimer’s rat snake_____________ Elaphe obsoleta lindheimeri____- 1
Chicken, snake 2sa52 05s nae sees Elaphe quadrivittata_________~- 1
Aesculapiany snakes. oe ss2 a sean Elaphe longissima____.___-__----- 1
Kine snake... Mer ea oes taiety een Lampropeltis getulus getulus___- al
Speckledskineysna kes sees seen Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki___ 3
California king snake________-___-_ Lampropeltis getulus californiae. 2
NONVOLAN GIN LEST a Keser lees Lampropeltis getulus splendida__ at
Scarlet kine snake 22 ees Sanne Lampropeltis triangulum doliata_ 1
Milk snakes o<_.. 2earocee ft wasnt Lampropeltis triangulum_____--- il
Tropical. king ‘snakes wees. sen Lampropeltis polyzonus____-___-_ 1
Moleusnake:. —. 2 eolyinqo to aeeeper Lampropeltis rhombemculata ___ 1
Cat-ey.e. snake... sway Semen Leptodeira annulata_____-____-_-~ 1
Eastern worm snake__-__~__--_____ Carphophis amoenus____-__---_- 1
Wekay/ Ss Snakes es kan eee en Storeria dekayi_______-_-) - 1
Green whip snake__________________ Dryophis prasinus__-_._________ 1
Wile‘snake. bbe ul wedi Simocephalus capensig__________ 1
Wolf Snake: —. 2s) isd oh eee Lycodon flavomaculatus_________ 2
Green-headed tree snake____________ Leptophis mewvicanus_____------ 1
Elapidae:
In Gdian7COpra es lew siecle aap ae INCI ONO) C226 ee 2
1 NEa Aya O WIC 610) 09 of Ae Ae eee a or ube IN C4 If AGE Tee ee tf
Ws ytian CODYe 2): 2 ue et eae NOP OHV) C2 Ee rca ee ah 1
BT RS SE a ree Nea Bungarus multicinctus___._____-- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

161

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Acrochordidae:
Elephant trunk snake__------------. Acrochordus javanicus_--------- 1
Crotalidae:
Southern copperhead_--_-----------. Ancistrodon contortriv contor-
CAD ee Ae eee 1
Northern copperhead__-------------. Ancistrodon controtrix mokeson— 2
Western broad-banded copperhead__. Ancistrodon contortrig laticinc-
(Us So a 1
Water moccasin, or cottonmouth___-_- Ancistrodon piscivorus.____------ 3
inves oo Ancistrodon halys blomhofi_----- 1
Asian snorkel viper===—-----------—— Ancistrodon acutus__._________. 2
Green palm vViper=.-2-2----==2=2-=-. Trimeresurus gramineus_------- 2
Stejneger’s palm viper_-_----------- Trimeresurus stejnegeri_____---- 1
Waecler’s pit viper___-____-___-_--=_- Trimeresurus wagleri______--~-- 1
Mamushi, or Asiatic viper_---------. Trimeresurus elegans._..___--_~ i
Habu, or Asiatic viper-_--—--------- Trimeresurus flavoviridis____--- 1
Southern Pacific rattlesnake__------ Crotalus viridis helleri_______--- 1
Prairie rattlesnake______---_-------- Crotalus viridis viridis________-- al
Western diamondback rattlesnake___ Crotalus atrow____--_--~--~----- 24
Timber rattlesnake____------------- Crotalus horridus__---- Ving A ay Ey 2
AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA
Amphiumidae:
Wonearcely saa = SB eee Amphiuma means__..__-------- 1
Cryptobranchidae:
Eeelibender=22-4 2 es Boe Cryptobranchus alleganiensis__- 2
Ambystomidae:
Spotted: salamander2222_2 2222 2-- Ambystoma maculatum____----- 2
Jemerson’s) salamander=2_——-——- Ambystoma jeffersonianum___-_-- 1
Salamandridae:
Red-bellied: newt=2-2~===—=..===-=—.. Cynops pyrrhogaster_______-___- 10
Red-spotted. new t=—>— = ee Diemictylus viridescens____----~- 19
SALIENTIA
Bufonidae:
mAmericanstoads2-=222 6 2a BAL fOMOMLCTACUN AUS aa ee 1
Ginn baton d ae eee ee ee BUSOMNOUMNUS ase ee 5
@uban toads = Bufo peltocephalus_____-------- 6
Onka toad sates 25 as ee eee ae eee BU OLQUenCiCussee == ae eae 2
Pelobatidae:
Spadetcothtoads2- 2 sas) eee Scaphiopus holbrooki____-_----- 14
Pipidae:
Surinam toad: —— 2 sa ee PANG Dip Cae eae ee oe 14
Atricam clawed frog= os ee MENODUS LACS a 2 ee ee 5
Leptodactylidae:
@olombian) horned frogess 2 se. Ceratophrys calcarata___........ 2
Argentine horned frog_____________- Ceratophrys ornata_____------- it
Hylidae:
Barking (reerirOges as ee eee TIYUG: VET SICOLOT sana een 2
Greentree) frogeas = Sa ee TV ICRCINCh CG sate eee 4
Cubanstree frogs te eee Hyla septentrionalis.______-__---- 4
Souirrelitree frog. ose a eee HETIL 8 OMA CULL me er 1
Gray-tree frog =-- oa a, HYG VET SCO se ne eee eee 2
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Microhylidae:
Great Plains narrow-mouthed toad_. Microhyla olivacea_____------~-- 1
Ranidae:
IACricanep ull trove sso a eee eee GNG GOSPCrSO=—  eee 4
American DulettOe= = oo Rana catesbeiana_________-___- a,
GreenitroOes seas ae Ee eee. Rana clamitans melanota____-__~ 5
Meopardstrog==-2 2h. eee LON Gis DUDLCNS 2m a te Many
ARTHROPODS
DECAPODA
Cenobitidae :
and@hermit craps ose ae eee Coenobita clypeatus_______--__- Many
ARANEIDA
Theridiidae:
Black-widow spider_____.__----_-_---. Latrodectus mactans_____---_-- 1
ORTHOPTERA
Blattidae:
Tropical giant cockroach_______----- Blaberus giganteus__________-_ Many
MOLLUSKS
PULMONATA
Planorbidae:
Pond ‘snalleei at eee eee ee Helisoma trivolwis_______----_~ Many
FISHES
NEOCERATODONTOIDEI
Protopteridae:
JKeplnin nig Ne ee Protopterus annectens_________ 2)
OSTARIOPHYSOIDEI
Characidae:
Veg begs b a obs Uy sates cee Le is lot ee Serrasalmus niger________-_____ i
IVI Gyan Ta Ss) pe ereh hhe ee s e Metynnis rooseveltit___________ 1
IB Te Che GO tr as sak a Ee ee Gynmocorymbus ternetzi___--_- 3
Cyprinidae:
FED EG fis es a hs ea a Brachydanio rerioloo_ === 2 ses 3
Clownebarbas Bees Te es See Barbus meverctitas. ease 1
Miser arpa] fae eee ee a eee Puntius partipentazona________~ 2
White Cloud Mountain fish_____---- Tanichthys albonubes____-_---_- 15
Electrophoridae:
Hlectriceel hats arene ee Pee Electrophorus electricus____---- il
CYRINODONTOIDEI
Poeciliidae:
Hlae-talled suppyen ee ee Lebistes reticulatus.___.__.___.___ 10
GuDDY? Sea eet a ens Sue een eae Lebistes reticoulatusi-___ 15
BACK MO es ae ae cr eta = ee Mollienesia latipinna_._._________ De

Paty Or moontishe sso eee see eee Xiphophorus maculatus___-----~ 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 163

PERCOMORPHOIDEI
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Anabantidae:
Climbing perches a5 Lee sea ees Anabas testudineus____-------- 8
Cichlidae:
Petco ckvecrchiid sees Ses Shs Law en Es, Astronotus ocellatus_._______---- 1
Egyptian mouthbreeder____--------- _ Haplochromis multicolor___—--~ 3
INSOREAEY YES) a ree es Lhe Pelmatochromis guentheri_____- 2
African mouthbreeder________------ Pterophyllum eimekei__-------- z
Jack Dempsey fishes. 22s oa ee Cichlasoma biocellatum___---~--- 15
AER 2) BOLE) 6 ee ee ee ce Hemichromis bimaculatus___---- al
Lorcariidae:
South) American catfish. —=-——=—---—_ Plecostomus plecostomus_——---- 2
FINANCES

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro-
priated annually under the District of Columbia Appropriation Act.
The operation and maintenance appropriation for the fiscal year 1961
totaled $1,304,000, which was $138,800 more than for the fiscal year
1960. The increase consisted of $22,000 to cover salary increases for
General Schedule employees in accordance with Public Law 86-568 ;
$16,000 to cover salary increases for police employees in accordance
with Public Law 86-379; $25,800 to cover salary increases for Wage
Board employees; $12,900 for within-grade salary advancements for
both General Schedule and Wage Board employees; $8,500 for Fed-
eral Employees Health Benefits; $46,100 to establish 11 new positions;
$7,500 for the purchase of new equipment.

Of the total appropriation, 83.5 percent ($1,089,002) was used for
salaries and related personnel costs and 16.5 percent ($214,998) for
the maintenance and operation of the Zoo. Included in the latter
figure were $74,000 for animal food; $18,000 for fuel for heating;
$34,257 for materials for building construction and repairs; $9,725
for the purchase of animals; $9,600 for electricity; $5,400 for tele-
phone, postal, and telegraph services; and $5,000 for veterinarian
equipment and supplies. The balance of $35,675 in operational funds
was expended for other items, including freight, sundry supplies,
uniforms, gasoline, road repairs, equipment replacement, and new
equipment.

In addition to the regular appropriation, $240,000 for safety im-
provements was appropriated for capital outlay. This was to carry
out the second phase of the safety program.

PERSONNEL

On October 10, 1960, Dr. William M. Mann, Director of the Na-
tional Zoological Park from 1925 until 1956, died at the age of 74.
During his regime he had built up the collection of animals from
about 1,600 to more than 8,000 specimens; he had supervised the build-
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

ing of modern quarters for birds, reptiles, large mammals, and small
mammals, as well as of machine shops, the Zoo restaurant, and police
headquarters. He led numerous expeditions to South America, Indo-
nesia, and Africa to collect animals for the Zoo. It was during his
tenure of office that the National Zoological Park grew from a second-
rate Zoo to one of world-wide importance.

Russell Morrison, supervisory keeper, came to the Zoo March 1,
1931, and was assigned to the reptile house. He died of a heart attack
while on duty August 14, 1960.

Malcolm Davis, who first came to the Zoo on November 16, 1927,
retired on July 1, 1960, to accept a research position in private in-
dustry. He had for many years been in charge of the bird house
and was associate head keeper at the time of his retirement. He had
been on many expeditions to collect animals, including three voyages
to Antarctica to bring back penguins.

Other retirements were those of Bertelle Ford, keeper, employed
at the Zoo from December 5, 1942, to October 31, 1960; Leonard Ford,
supervisory animal keeper, December 29, 1950, to June 15, 1961; Wil-
liam G. Modena, December 16, 1936, to July 31, 1960, assistant super-
intendent of maintenance and construction; Charles Dean, operating
engineer, August 16, 1927, to December 31, 1960; and Ada McNeil,
custodial laborer, from November 10, 1952, to July 31, 1960.

Reily Straw, a welder, was promoted to take Mr. Modena’s place
as assistant superintendent of maintenance and construction. Donald
Swartzback of the grounds department was made supervisor of the
new tree section.

A night-keeper program was initiated this year to insure care of
the animals 24 hours a day. This is essential particularly in the case
of baby animals that are being hand fed or sick animals that need
medication during the night.

In fiscal year 1961 there were 197 authorized positions at the Zoo,
divided as follows: Administrative office, 16; animal department, 76,
an increase of 6 over the previous year (2 night keepers, 2 commissary
stewards, 2 laborers) ; mechanical department, 61; police department,
33, an increase of 3; and grounds department, 11, an increase of 2.

Mrs. Fruza C. Kussrow was appointed budget analyst on July 18,
1960, and Frank Maloney came in as engineer on April 16, 1961.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

“Friends of the National Zoo,” a group of civic-minded District
residents, were active again this year. On December 16, 1960, John
Perry, president of the organization, presented to the Smithsonian
Institution a “master plan” which had been made by Meade Palmer
and Morris Trotter, landscape architects. This substitutes a pedes-
trian “greenway” for the dangerous automobile road that now goes

SECRETARY’S REPORT 165

through the center of the Zoo and suggests locations for new buildings
such as a new monkey house, monkey island, lion house, hoofed-stock
complex, administration building, and auditorium. Dr. Carmichael
presented the master plan to the Board of Regents at their annual
meeting in January 1961.

The “Friends” were responsible for a brass plaque which was
placed at the base of the flag that flies at the Connecticut Avenue
entrance to the Zoo. This flagpole was dedicated in September 1959,
“as an expression of warm affection for Dr. William M. Mann, former
Director of the Zoo,” and on the day of Dr. Mann’s funeral the flag
was flown at half-staff.

June 5, 1961, was designated as Zoo Night for the “Friends.” About
200 of them gathered at the Police Station at 8 p.m. and were taken
on a conducted tour.

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons
all over the world and from every part of this country, who write to
the Zoo, as a national institution, for information regarding animals.
Telephone calls come in constantly asking for identification of ani-
mals, proper diets, or treatment of disease. Visitors to the office as
well as to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking information.

On his trip to India for the white tiger, the Director had an oppor-
tunity to visit zoos in Hawaii, Japan, the Philippines, Malaya, and
Thailand, as well as India, and to photograph various types of new
construction and design. He has lectured on these Oriental zoos to
civic and scientific groups. His article on “Enchantress, the White
Tiger” was published in the National Geographic Magazine for May
1961.

J. Lear Grimmer, Associate Director, continued his fieldwork in
British Guiana and spent 7 weeks there studying the life history of
the hoatzin. For 2 weeks he was joined by William Widman, senior
keeper. Mr. Grimmer left again for British Guiana in June 1961,
accompanied by Keeper Charles Hall.

The Director and Travis E. Fauntleroy, Jr., assistant to the Di-
rector, attended the annual convention of the American Association
of Zoological Parks and Aquariums at Long Beach, Calif., in Sep-
tember 1960. Mr. Fauntleroy stopped at Brookfield (Chicago), San
Francisco, San Diego, and San Antonio to study management meth-
ods in these well-known zoos. The Director visited Vancouver, B.C.,
Seattle, Wash., Portland, Oreg., San Francisco, and San Diego, study-
ing recent construction at these zoos. In February, the Director and
Dr. James F. Wright attended the Midwinter Conference of Midwest
Zoo Directors in St. Louis, where the Director presented a paper on
Oriental Zoos and Dr. Wright spoke on the immobilization of animals.
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

In Washington, the Director spoke on three radio programs and
appeared on television, showing a number of Zoo animals.

Senior Keeper William F. Widman and Supervisory Keeper
Holmes M. Vorous have written an article on the hatching of kooka-
burras in the Zoo, which will be published in England by Avicultural
Magazine in the autumn of 1961.

Senior Keeper Mario DePrato and Holmes M. Vorous accompanied
a shipment of live reptiles to the Detroit Zoo in August 1960, arriving
there in time for the opening of the new reptile house. While in the
Midwest they visited zoos in Toledo, Cleveland, and Pittsburgh,
studying methods of exhibiting and handling animals.

Ordinarily the Zoo does not conduct guided tours of the Park, but
exceptions were made for a group of children from the Columbia
Lighthouse for the Blind and for four other groups of handicapped
children.

On July 14, 1960, 1,523 foreign exchange students visited the Zoo;
the schoolboy patrol, consisting of 9,740 students from all parts of the
country, came to the Park on May 13, 1961; and a group of African
students toured the Park on June 21, 1961.

While the Zoo does not conduct a regular research program as
such, effort is made to study the animals and improve their health,
housing, and diet in every way possible.

REPORT OF THE VETERINARIAN

The veterinarian, Dr. James F. Wright, reports that the major
veterinary problems at the National Zoological Park for this year, as
in past years, stem from the lack of facilities and help to investigate
disease in the collection, absence of suitable hospitalization and
quarantine, and the need for a full-time arrangement for orphan-
animal care.

The central nervous system disease of monkeys mentioned in last
year’s report is still under investigation by the Armed Forces Institute
of Pathology. Necropsies have been performed on seven monkeys
which during life had shown the typical signs of acute amaurotic
epilepsy as described by Langdon and Cadwallader in 1915 and again
by Van Bogaert and Scherer in 1935. These cases include two im-
mature Barbary apes (died January 5, 1960, and April 8, 1961), an
immature pig-tailed macaque (July 20, 1959), an immature hybrid
(Philippine x Javan) macaque (January 6, 1960), an immature drill
(April 9, 1960), an immature mandrill (June 24, 1960), and an im-
mature hybrid gibbon (Hylobates lar x H.sp.) which was raised in a
keeper’s home from the day of birth and was thus rather free of the
Park environment. Three monkeys in the collection, a gray-cheeked
mangabey, a black-crested mangabey, and a mandrill, all female

SECRETARY’S REPORT 167

adults, have the typical seizures of this malady periodically but act
normal in every way except during the attacks. The black-crested
mangabey is, as nearly as can be determined, blind without obvious
gross defect in either eye. For almost a year, these three animals
have received daily doses of diphenylhydantoin sodium, which ap-
parently has suppressed the occurrence and severity of the seizures to
a minor degree. Ingestion of toxic quantities of lead has always been
considered a strong possibility in causing this condition, but it has
been determined that no lead-base paints have been used in the animal
areas, and an analysis of the water supply at the monkey house dis-
closed less than acceptable minimums of this element.

A maned wolf (Chrysocyon jubatus), received from a dealer in
South America, died after a short illness in February 1961. The only
antemortem signs were inappetence and inanition leading to a comatose
state on the day before death. Antibiotics, canine antidistemper
serum, and intravenous therapy were without observable effect. A
necropsy performed immediately after death by the Pathology In-
stitute disclosed the following conditions: heartworm (Dirofilaria sp.),
lungworm (/%laroides osleri), and hookworm infestations; presence
of the giant kidney worm (Dioctophyma renale) ; parasitic nodules of
Spirocerca lupi in the aorta and other great vessels; large ulcerated
areas in the stomach; and negri bodies of rabies in microscopic
preparations of brain tissue. Just prior to death blood samples were
taken from this animal for blood-picture study and serology. The
interesting finding of these studies was the presence of serum anti-
bodies to the disease caused by Leptospira canicola. The serum titre
was a very high 1 :6400.

A female maned wolf, which was obtained from the same source in
January 1960, died in August 1960, with the same antemortem signs.
The necropsy report describes only an infestation with the lungworm
Filaroides oslert. The central nervous system of this individual was
not examined because the carcass was requested for the U.S. National
Museum.

Juvenile osteoporosis occurred in a pair of bobcats and a mountain
lion, all being raised with the parents and all showing similar signs
of onset-lameness in one hind limb progressing to severe lameness and
ultimately posterior paralysis. Radiographs taken of one of the bob-
cats showed a fracture of the femur, a folding fracture of the pelvis,
and collapse of the lumbar vertebrae with resultant compression of
the spinal cord. Necropsy reports by Dr. Wayne Riser established the
condition as juvenile osteoporosis. For future cases he recommended
the addition of potassium iodide to the ration as well as increased
calcium and vitamin D (one-half teaspoonful daily of a solution of 50
mg. KI to 100 cc. of water).

6253256212
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

In the report for 1960 it was stated that attempts were being made
to develop a diagnostic test for tuberculosis in wild hoofed animals
through serum antibodies. Blood samples were obtained from two
elands and a giraffe suspected of being infected with this disease.
These samples were checked serologically by investigators of the De-
partment of Agriculture, whose preliminary report indicated that no
specific antibodies for the tuberculosis antigen were present in the
serums of these animals. Since the samples were examined, all three
animals have died with the necropsy diagnosis of pulmonary tuber-
culosis. These pathological findings have been supported by reports
from Dr. Alfred G. Karlson of the Mayo Foundation, who isolated and
identified the bovine variety of the tuberculosis organism from tissues
of these animals.

A lammergeyer, or bearded vulture (Gypaetus barbatus), which was
acquired from a dealer in West Germany in June 1960, developed
wartlike lesions on both feet after one month in the collection. In
two more days similar lesions were noticed on the lower lid of the
right eye. The left eyelid became involved in another three weeks.
The growths were fleshy in nature with no vesicle formation noted,
although there did appear to be some secondary infection and dis-
charge from the sites. Except for an erratic appetite, which may
have been caused by shipment, it was not apparent that this condition
had any general debilitating effect on the bird. The largest growth was
easily removed from the eyelid for pathological examination; the
smaller “nodules” all dropped off after three or four weeks. As this
bird was returning to normal, similar lesions were noticed on a king
penguin. Again the condition occasioned the bird no distress and dis-
appeared in about one month. While the penguin was recovering, a
black-footed albatross developed some nodules in and around the beak
which disappeared in about six weeks. Finally an Adéle penguin
was found with numerous growths around the beak and eyelids.
Whereas the aforementioned birds recovered, this penguin died before
the lesions had disappeared. The pathologists found pathognomonic
evidence of fowl-pox infection in this penguin and in the tissue sub-
mitted from the lammergeyer vulture. It is probable that the virus
was introduced from the vulture brought from overseas by air ship-
ment. The black-footed albatross and the king penguin are also
presumed to have been infected with this virus. There has been no
subsequent appearance of this condition to date.

Two three-toed sloths (Bradypus tridactylus) were acquired during
the past year from South America: a male, which lived only four days
after arriving in poor condition, and a female, which lived from
September until February 1961 and produced a baby, which lived for
14 days. Both the adult sloths had severe anemias and bone marrow
hypoplasia, according to the pathologists’ report.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 169

A female spotted hyaena died May 12, 1961. No report has come
in as yet from the AF IP except that the animal had mammary tumors.
Both this hyaena and the male, which died in 1960, were received at
the Park July 1, 1947.

The use of the intramuscular, long-acting barbiturate “Capchur-
barb” was continued, both in the projectile syringe and by hand
syringe. Among the animals requiring sedation or anesthesia with
this drug were two American alligators, an eland antelope, a prong-
horn antelope, zebu cow, American elk, raccoon, bighorn sheep, puma,
capuchin monkey, Java macaque, lesser panda, and Grevy’s zebra. An-
other anesthetic preparation that was found most useful was the
rectal thiopental sodium (Pentothal-Abbott). This drug is packaged
in disposable plastic syringes for immediate use with a graduated
plunger and two separate applicators per syringe. This type of seda-
tion or anesthesia was used for short procedures and for restraint on
primates and carnivores.

Dr. Wright made two trips to a game farm in Florida and one to
the quarantine station in New Jersey at the request of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture for the purpose of immobilizing captive wild
animals with the projectile syringe method. The drug used in these
immobilizations was succinylcholine chloride, with one exception de-
scribed below. The list of animals successfully immobilized with
succinylcholine includes 23 Grant’s zebra, 11 Grevy’s zebra, 8 Damara
zebra, 17 eland, 4 greater kudu, 4 beisa oryx, 2 blackbuck, 2 aoudad,
1 hartebeest, 1 brindled gnu, 3 nilghai, 1 American bison, 3 red deer,
1 giraffe, 1 spotted hyaena, and 1 white-handed gibbon. In addition
to these, 5 white-tailed gnus were immobilized with the drug gal-
lamine triethiodide (Flaxedil-Lederle). On the basis of reports re-
ceived from investigators in Africa it seemed that this latter drug
was more satisfactory for immobilizing wildebeest. However, both
gallamine and succinylcholine have been used successfully in this type
of animal. Complete reports on these immobilizations are in
preparation.

Dr. Wright’s paper “The Immobilization of Captive Wild Animals
with Succinylcholine II,” prepared in collaboration with Dr. Warren
R. Pistey of the New England Institute for Medical Research, was
published by the Canadian Journal of Comparative Medicine, vol. 25,
No. 3, March 1961.

A demonstration of the use of the projectile syringe was given at
the University of Maryland for a combined meeting of the Maryland
State Veterinary Medical Association, the District of Columbia
Veterinary Medical Association, American Animal Hospital Associa-
tion, and the District of Columbia Academy of Veterinary Medicine.

Dr. F. R. Lucas, Livestock Sanitary Laboratory, Centreville, Md.,
170 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

provided clinical laboratory services including microscopic tissue
reports.

Identification of parasites from specimens in the collection were
made by M. B. Chitwood and W. W. Becklund of the Parasite Classi-
fication and Distribution Investigations, Beltsville Parasitological
Laboratory, U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Necropsies of major and important specimens were performed by
the pathologists of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Walter
Reed Army Medical Center. Necropsy materials not needed by the
Institute were offered to Dr. Thomas Peery of the George Washington
School of Medicine for comparative pathology study.

Isolations and identifications of suspected tubercular tissues were
made by Dr. Karlson of the Mayo Foundation.

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates during the past
fiscal year and a table of comparison with the past 6 fiscal years:

Mortality, fiscal year 1961 Total mortality, past 6 fiscal years
Attri-

Death, tion sq 956-208 ee ale aie Neca ree 618

Mammalsee. aie ee. 102 = AOU: Wn 19 (ne lee a hemp tap evap 0 549
1 BT (6 Fs WAU tod sl 0 fe Ao 163 IW akan GE Loko se NaN ee ies DC ita te PO 2, 550
Reptiles 2 Sosa ee Soh 132 71 TOGO 2 Fee Se Aves aL CR CS ee 472
ee eS T9602 Bie 2 se LU eee Red 532

SOs wh2O i VOGT AN Bei ee he a 517

*Attrition is the term used for those losses due mainly to the trauma of shipment and handling after ac-
cession at the Zoo, or before an animal! can adapt to cage habitation within the collection.

The old pair of Nile hippopotamuses, Pinky and Bongo, were “re-
tired” from the Zoo in the summer of 1959 and placed on deposit at a
private zoo in Virginia to make room for a younger pair. The male,
Bongo, who had come to the Zoo on April 7, 1914, died on December 4,
1959, after 45 years 7 months 27 days in captivity. The female, who
was 11 years old when she was obtained on April 25, 1939, died on
December 31, 1960.

Other animals that had been in the collection for a relatively long
time and died this year were: A kiang (“quus onager) received Oc-
tober 14, 1934, died August 16, 1960, after 25 years 10 months 2 days;
South American lungfish (Lepidosiren paradowa), received May 6,
1932, died January 18, 1961, after 28 years 8 months and 12 days. An
Indian fresh-water turtle (Batagur baska) was a very old specimen
when it arrived on September 17, 1947. It died May 19, 1961, after
13 years 8 months 2 days. It was the only one in captivity in the
United States and probably the oldest specimen of its kind in any zoo.

A horned toad, Ceratophrys ornata, collected by Frances Shippen
on the National Zoological Park Expedition to Argentina (received
SECRETARY'S REPORT L7i

in the Zoo June 27, 1939) is still living. A salt-water crocodile
(Crocodylus porosus), purchased July 12, 1932, when about 8 years
old, is still living and is believed to be the largest in captivity.

COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and indi-
viduals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result, the
Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and
in turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, animals it
does not need.

In cooperation with the State Department and the White House,
the National Zoological Park arranged for the fulfillment of Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s promise to General DeGaulle to send him three
pronghorn antelopes for the Paris Zoo. The antelopes selected had
been in the collection here and were thus accustomed to captivity.
They had originally come from the State Fish and Game Department
of Montana, which will send replacements to the National Zoological
Park. The pronghorns, the only ones in any European zoo, were
flown from Andrews Air Force Base on August 2, 1960, on an Air
Force C-130 cargo plane. Lt. Col. Perry Penn, 62d Squadron com-
mander, and Capt. Donald Gould, aircraft commander, were in
charge, and the Director of the Zoo accompanied the shipment. All
arrangements were made at the request of President Eisenhower. In
addition, the plane carried two Virginia deer fawns and an assortment
of small mammals, birds, and reptiles. The plane stopped at Prest-
wick, Scotland, and unloaded there two bear cubs, birds, and alli-
gators for the zoos in Edinburgh and Bristol, before continuing on to
Orly Field in France.

Through the cooperation of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Senior Keeper William Widman made a number of collecting trips on
Chesapeake Bay to secure waterfowl for the Zoo.

Special acknowledgment is due George Kirk and John Pulaski, in
the office of the U.S. Dispatch Agent in New York City, and Stephen
E. Lato, Dispatch Agent in San Francisco, who are frequently called
upon to clear shipments of animals coming from abroad, often at
great personal inconvenience. The animals have been forwarded to
Washington without the loss of a single individual.

When it is necessary to quarantine animals coming into this country,
they are taken to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s station in
Clifton, N.J. During the past year Dr. B. C. Swindell and Andy
Goodel, two of the officials stationed there, have been most cooperative
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

in keeping the National Zoological Park informed as to the well-
being of animals and birds being held there for quarantine.

Animals that die in the Zoo are offered to the United States Na-
tional Museum. If the Museum does not need them, they are sent
on request to reasearch workers in other institutions.

The Zoo cooperated with the National Capital Parks and lent small
animals to Park naturalists and to the Nature Center in Rock Creek
Park for demonstration.

Gifts of plants were received from Mount Vernon, the Botanical
Gardens, National Bureau of Standards, District of Columbia Water-
works, St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, the Naval Observatory, and the
Soldiers’ Home. <A very welcome gift was a 15-by-40-foot greenhouse,
from the Bureau of Standards, to supply tropical plants for forage
and for planting in indoor cages.

VISITORS

Tn cooperation with Albert Mindlin and Samuel Rosenthal, analyti-
cal statisticians of the Management Office of the District of Columbia,
a new method of estimating the visitor attendance is being developed
for greater statistical reliability.

Number of bus groups visiting the Zoo in fiscal year 1961

Locality Number | Number Locality Number | Number

of groups | in groups of groups | in groups
Mabamaier soe sate 30 1 2137\| Mississippic*.—2 222 14 541
ATIZONa ee eee 1 287 Vontanaees=esese == 1 25
Arkansas) 2004 2087 63 2 70 || New Hampshire ----- 1 40
Califormial="3- 24222 1 40 || New Jersey___------ 12 963
Connecticut_.....--- a 259 || New Mexico_-_-____--_ 1 26
Delaware® 20222162 = 13 498 || New York...__-__-_- 269 | 10, 753
District of Columbia- 177 | 7,021 || North Carolina__-___- 218 | 8, 652
Mioridach 2 hoes Lae 33 LATGGH IP Olimar s hee i 32 1, 241
Georgidiee cette tee 124 | 4,995 || Pennsylvania_--_-_--_- 294 | 11, 775
Nlinoisiss Seco Ase Le 6 241 || Rhode Island- ----_-- 16 604
In@isnahe & 52222 5 200 || South Carolina_-__-_-_- 52) lee 2). O76
TOWae ores eee 5 188 || Tennessee_...__--_- 52 |) 25022
IKanISaS Meee oe eS 2 GOn|eexaseee eae Se ee 2 92
Kentuckyeeseee es 16 OlSnl| le Vermont=. =.= 242s —— 1 35
ouisian tess. ae 2 S10) ||) Wabeeibont oe ee 735 | 29, 449
IVT eet ie oe ae 2 441 || West Virginia______-_ 66 2, 352
Manyland=ssee" =— 6 9547 hos elOOR mWisScOnsin === ee 5 182
Massachusetts___.-__ 11 64 ——_- | ——_——
Michigan 222222222 9 303 Mortals twee 3, 171 |118, 048
Miannesotate=ss2 5. =" 6 213

a
SECRETARY'S REPORT 173

Groups from foreign countries

Number | Number Number | Number

of groups | in groups of groups | in groups
LNGHE Oe LN ee eee 3 15 Obl pHa ities es Bee ee ke 1 58
BCUaG On eee ee ese 1 SOe| |) Japa es soe oe ee 2 70
Exchange students_-_- 40 Ma y'483 a
RinkanGde 2) soe ss 2 80 Totaleaneeeee 51 1, 966

About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which
they come. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the
Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by States
of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, Mary-
land, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from other
States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1961 is as follows:

Percentage Percentage
Fa SICA LGW YG I tn in a aa ed Eo Re I a as S2e6 KOaliformiahee = oes ee eee 0. 7
Wap ani ee ae Sula Pe eee Pek Ee Zoro LWOUNeCH CU === eee ee ai
District of Columbia_____--_---- Die Southe Garolin aes 22a ene .6
Penns yal Qe ee ee S39 POLIT aay Se Ee ees ee os Re .6
ING WaneY Oke Reha ORR) 0h TE 2S) ANN OUS es a ees eee Oe. See ee 5
INonihnoCarolina!s irs et lL ORGeorgiae pa ae Jey soe en 2 Th 4
Onn OR ees Ee ee Se Deleware fee ues ee. 4
INQ WprOUSOyn es oes 2 ee Ae OPEC OT Bes oe eee 2 4
WWeStemiteiniate coke Ree fa ME@NMESSCC tes te ee eres 4
Blomidage ae eee ee ee eee Ie Texas's 22 ™ toe SORE bh) Peeks kes 4
MassTelusetts ares 222s Sales ate)

The remaining 4.3 percent came from other States, Azores, Bahamas,
British Columbia, Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, England, Finland,
France, Germany, Guatemala, Japan, Mexico, Newfoundland, Norway,
Okinawa, Philippines, Switzerland, and the Virgin Islands.

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia,
and foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about
92 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign countries;
and during the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent no
less than 84 different States, Territories, and countries. Parking
spaces in the Zoo now accommodate 1,079 cars when the bus parking ~
place is utilized and 969 cars when it is not used.

POLICE DEPARTMENT

The practice of using men for police duty on a temporary basis
during the busy season continues to prove a highly satisfactory ar-
174. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

rangement, releasing the regular officers for special details and assign-
ments, as well as patrol duty.

Refresher courses in first-aid training were given by Set. A. L.
Canter, Pvt. C.S. Grubbs, and Keeper Lester Ratliff.

Sgt. A. L. Canter, Pvts. G. H. Adams, M. J. Devlin, Jr., and
A. S. Kadlubowski attended an extensive course on the handling of
juveniles administered by the Youth Aid Division of the District of
Columbia Metropolitan Police Department.

The police force conducted 1,647 investigations of traffic violations,
137 investigations of a general nature, picked up 42 truant children
and took appropriate action and returned 269 lost children to their
parents or groups. The First Aid Station handled 1,575 cases, mostly
for minor injuries. Visitors who stopped in the police headquarters
for information numbered 8,202. Eyeglasses and sunglasses found in
the Park and unclaimed were turned over to the Society for the Pre-
vention of Blindness, and unclaimed articles of clothing, etc., were
given to the Goodwill Industries.

The Mounted Color Guard, now numbering six officers, continued
. to participate in local parades.

SAFETY SUBCOMMITTEE

Lt. John R. Wolfe is chairman of the Nationa] Zoological Park
Safety Subcommittee, which consists of Dr. James F. Wright, admin-
istration office; Lt. C. E. Brink, police department; Bert J. Barker,
animal department; Reily Straw, maintenance and construction;
Michael Dubik of the grounds department; and Mrs. W. M. Holden
of the Smithsonian Institution as subcommittee secretary. Monthly
meetings of the Safety Subcommittee were held to discuss safety
measures and make recommendations to the Director.

In addition to the safety manual issued to the animal department
in January 1960, a new safety manual for the maintenance and con-
struction department was issued in October 1960, and one for the
grounds department in January 1961. A safety manual for the police
department is now being printed.

A survey of all Park buildings was conducted on September 27,
1960, by Harold McCoy of the Federal Civil Defense Organization,
accompanied by Captain James and Lt. Brink of the Zoo police. This
was in regard to “Fall Out Space,” and the total number of square
feet of floor space and the number of persons who could be sheltered
in case of bombing were established.

Reily Straw represented the Subcommittee at the National Safety
Conference’s annual convention in Chicago in October 1960.

Set. A. L. Canter and Pvt. G. H. Adams attended the General
Services Administration “Driver Training School” and are now quali-

SECRETARY’S REPORT 175

fied to test Park employees and other Smithsonian employees for
issuance of Government drivers’ permits.

Sergeant Canter and Private Adams attended the Federal Safety
Council’s meeting on the use of safety belts in Government vehicles
and gavea report to the subcommittee.

Five fire extinguishers were added to fill the requirements of the
District of Columbia Fire Marshall. Directional signs to the extin-
guishers have been painted and installed. First-aid boxes have been
placed in all Park buildings. Exit signs have been installed in all
buildings frequented by the public. A shifting conveyor was made
in the mechanical shop for use in moving large animals. Red flags
and danger signs have been purchased for use on moving vehicles
and when work is being done on trees. Public pay telephones have
been relocated to aid the public and relieve inside communications,
and 14 new telephones and extensions were added to the Park tele-
phone system to improve communications and supply contact in iso-
lated areas.

The police pistol range has been improved, the work being done by
the police in their off-duty time with assistance from the grounds and
maintenance department.

An oxygen inhalator was added to the police first-aid room for use
in case of heart patients, electrical shock, etc. Dr. Wright instructed
the police in its use and operation.

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

Much of the work accomplished during the past fiscal year was
done to insure the safety of visitors, employees, and animals. The
District of Columbia Department of Buildings and Grounds, from
funds appropriated in FY 60, installed 5,000 feet of standardized
visitors’ safety fencing in front of many outdoor exhibits. They
also repaired the roofs of the small-mammal building, elephant house,
and bird house, and the walls and ceiling of the reptile house. The
ceiling of the reptile house was sprayed with an accoustical com-
pound, which reduces noise in the building by at least 50 percent.
Because of the bad echo, this house had been extremely noisy when
filled with people.

The new gorilla cage, which was made by remodeling the former
gibbon cage, is now adequate for the apes which came here as babies
but are now nearly full-grown animals. This cage has electrically
controlled doors for the shifting cage, heavy 84-inch steel bars,
14-inch plate glass on the inside quarters, and protective wiring on
the outside. The outside enclosure has a roof of corrugated fiberglass
panels so that the gorillas can enjoy being outdoors, protected from
rain and excessive heat.
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961

Fronts of the other great-ape cages, used by chimpanzees and orang-
utans, were moved back to allow for more keeper space between the
bars and the glass. Formerly there was a possibility that a chimpan-
zee might reach out through the bars and seize a keeper passing by.
While this work was being done, the interior of the cages was
brightly painted.

Remodeling of the alligator and crocodile exhibit in the reptile
house was done primarily for safety reasons, but resulted in an im-
provement in the general appearance. The old coping was removed,
and 14-inch glass fronts installed up to a height of 8 feet. A 42-inch
guard rail prevents the visitors from tapping on the glass. Inward-
curving spikes keep the alligators back from the glass. A child with
a 28-inch eye level is able to see all but 10 inches of the water.

In the small-mammal house, the old guard rail was topped with an
angled railing that keeps visitors back and makes it impossible for
them to reach over and put fingers in the cages.

An attractive new exhibit during the summer of 1961 was the in-
stallation of a group of 10 capuchin monkeys on a small island in the
waterfowl pond near the crossroads. Trees were cut back so that there
is no possibility of the monkeys’ jumping from branch to branch to
freedom, and the surrounding water is sufficient barrier to keep them
from climbing the low fence that surrounds the area. With a small
tree-house shelter against inclement weather, the monkeys have done
well, and the ducks and geese have accepted the new arrivals with
equanimity.

“Beaver Valley,” the wooded ravine below the bear dens, which fell
into disuse during World War II, was finally restored, and new pools
and fencing put in. In addition to the large beaver pond, on which a
pair of mute swans raised their young, there are pools for harbor
seals, otters, and other aquatic mammals.

Three dens in the main bear line were repaired with reinforced
concrete floor slabs, copings, gutters, partition walls, and ironwork.
Five cages in the short bear line above the reptile house were also re-
paired. This meant breaking up old deteriorated concrete walkways,
floor slabs, and pools, and replacing them with new concrete.

Major alterations were made to the interior of the old cookhouse,
which will now be used as an operating room for animals. An exten-
sion to the parking area fronting the pachyderm house was completed,
and repairs were made to holes in the main roadways. <A new floor
was installed in the director’s office, as the old one had been badly
damaged by termites, and the office was painted.

There was constant repair to old water and sewer systems, to electric
lines, heating lines, steam bypasses and return lines, and boilers in the
central heating plant. Some new heating lines, conduits, sewer lines,

SECRETARY’S REPORT 177

and storm-water lines were installed. All cleaning of ground areas
and burning and hauling of trash to the District dump was done by
the mechanical department.

The grounds department found that with new equipment, in par-
ticular a Skyworker for trimming high branches, and enlarged per-
sonnel, including two dendricians or tree culturists, the 5-year backlog
of work was reduced in a satisfactory manner. Two more flower beds
were planted and others slightly enlarged. Barberry bushes were
planted in strategic spots to deter visitors from walking in unsafe
areas. Trees were planted for both shade and forage.

Four more employees in the grounds department attended and com-
pleted classes in first aid; instructions were given to some of the
keepers and police in the use of the Skyworker in case of emergencies;
and all men in the grounds crew were given a one-hour horticultural
classroom lesson monthly.

The Washington Star, on June 18, 1961, carried an article in the
gravure section entitled “Washington’s Toughest Gardening Job,”
describing the work done by Michael Dubik, supervisory head gar-
dener, and his staff of 10 men.

PLANS FOR THE FUTURE

Owing to the intense interest in plans for the development and
growth of the National Zoological Park, the architectural and engi-
neering firm of Daniel, Mann, Mendenhall & Johnson began archi-
tectural studies and engineering estimates for a redevelopment of the
Zoo. These plans will be completed by September 1961.

Respectfully submitted.

Tueopore H. Reep, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
